  FRIEND  OF  THE  FAMILY  July  9  ELL,  Benedict,  A  trout  with  its  tail  in  its  mouth.  On  a  plate.  Before  me.  It's  called  Truite  au  Bleu,  and  Victor  insisted  that  I  have  it,  that  it  was  my  ob-  ligation  as  a  visitor  to  Geneva  to  have  it,  and  so  I  did,  but  disconcerting  as  that  was-do  you  know  they  boil  them  alive?-it  paled  besidethe  discon-  certingness  of  attempting  to  dine  in  public  with  Anne  and  Victor.  Since  I  got  here,  three  days  ago,  I've  been  feeling  that  I  must  have  missed  the  first  act.  Where  is  the  Anne  Gordon  with  whom  I  lived  in  New  York,  hap-  pily,  for  more  than  a  year  in  those  two  rooms  on  Eighth  Street?  Her  letters  didn't  prepare  me  for  this  transforma-  tion.  Her  rhapsodies  about  the  glories  of  Victor  didn't  prepare  me  for  a  balding  Hungarian  refugee  more  than  twice  her  age.  A  married  one,  with  three  children.  In  just  six  months  Our  Lady  of  the  Per-  petual  Milk  Crate  has  evolved  into  I  don't  quite  know  what:  a  chic,  jaded  mistress  person.  Anne  of  Cleavage.  She  has  a  very  grownup  modern  flat,  and  this  Victor  about  whom  I  have  heard  so  much  (and  about  whom  I  now  realize  I  knew  nothing)  turns  out  tobe,  creepily,  Anne's  boss  at  U.G.P.  (That  solves  the  mystery  of  how  Anne,  work-  ing  in  the  back  room  at  the  Shippen  Gallery  on  Madison  Avenue,  was  re-  cruited  by  a  Swiss  oil  broker,  or  whatever  it  is  that  U.G.P.  is  and  does.)  Victor  is  a  &quot;friend  of  the  family,&quot;  and  has  known  Anne  since  she  was  little.  Anne  has  re-  minded  me  that  I  did  once  meet  him,  when  he  came  to  pick  her  up  at  Eighth  Street  for  dinner.  I  guess  I  vaguely  recall  some  guy  in  a  blazer,  one  of  dozens  of  people  from  Eastern  Europe  who  con-  stitute  a  large  group  known  to  Anne  as  &quot;friends  of  the  family,&quot;  standing  in  our  hallway,  winded  after  three  flights  of  stairs.  It  didn't  occur  to  me  to  notice  him.  It  didn't  occur  to  me  in  all  these  months  that  \xc3\xa9hat  was  Victor.  He  even  looks  like  &quot;Daddy&quot;  (a  dour  Austrian  baker  with  a  flour  allergy  who  lives  alone with  his  bitter  memories  in  deepest  New  Jersey),  whose  life  Victor  is  credited  with  saving  in  a  children's  barracks  (where  they  shared  a  bunk)  at  [REDACTED].  Some-  thing  about  a  potato.  To  get  to  dinner,  Anne  and  I  took  a  bus  to  the  outskirts  of  Geneva,  and  then  walked  for  nearly  a  mile  along  a  some-  what  barren  avenue  where,  believe  me,  nobody  ordinarily  walks.  Anne  had  to  walk  in  front  of  me  because  the  traffic  was  so  alarmingly  close  that  walking  to-  gether  would  have  been  dangerous.  As  it  was,  I  thought  it  was  dangerous.  We  picked  our  way  along  the  shoulder  of  this  road  that  was  like  a  suburban  River-  side  Drive.  Cars  would  rush  past  us,  and  I  would  feel  the  force  of  air  pushing  me,  pulling  me.  Anne's  skirt  would  swirl  up.  She  has  great  legs.  Walking  a  few  paces  behind  her  afforded  me  the  same  view  that  strangers  in  passing  cars  were  getting.  There  was  something  oddly  seductive  about  her;  she  has  a  new  walk  that  somehow  exaggerates  her  femaleness  in  an  almost  cartoonish  way.  Is  this  how  a  mistress  walks?  She  has  very  high-heeled  strappy  sandals.  She  walks  very  fast.  I  felt  as  though,  compared  to  her,  I  was  a  sexless  companion,  like  a  dog  or  an  old  nanny,  lumbering  along  faithfully  be-  hind  her,  steady  as  she  goes.  And  I  was  wearing  the  bluesundress  you  like,  which  you  always  say  looks  so  good  with  a  bit  of  a  tan.  And  let  me  tell  you,  I  have  quite  a  lot  more  tan  than  I  meant  to,  be-  cause  of  yesterday's  bizarre  lake  adventure.  YESTERDAY:  Victor  turned  up  unex-  pectedly,  as  Sundays  are  usually  his  family  day,  when  Anne  does  things  like  bleach  her  mustache  and  (very  pain-  fully)  wax  her  thighs.  Anne  had,  in  fact,  spokenof  such  activities,  but  was,  luckily,  languishing  over  a  piece  of  toast  when  the  downstairs  buzzer  sounded  with  Victor's  specially  coded  three  shorts  and  one  long.  (Mrs.  Beethoven:  &quot;What,  Lud-  wig,  me  inspire  you?  Ha  Ha  Ha  Haaa!&quot;)  Victor  had  been  set  free,  he  explained  after  an  awfully  long,  silent  greeting  at  the  door;  I  kept  my  gaze  tactfully  averted  while  he  and  Anne  did  whatever  it  is  that  they  do,  with  more  passion  than  anyone  else  has  ever  experienced  in  the  history  of  humankind.  Victor's  wife,  Anna-  marie,  had  taken  the  children-who  are  called  Lucien,  Otto,  and  Minerva,  if  you  can  believe  it-to  the  beach.  As  every-  one  apparently  knows,  Victor  does  not  like  going  to  the  beach,  for  reasons  that  will  be  revealed  presently.  Anne,  who  can  be  maddeningly  pas-  sive  in  her  dealings  with  Victor  (how  can  this  be  Anne,  the  least  accommodating  person  I  have  ever  known;  just  try  to  ar-  gue  with  her  about  the  pronunciation  of  forte  or  banal,  just  try  to  get  her  to  go  in  the  main  entrance  of  the  Metropolitan  instead  of  her  beloved  Eighty-firstStreet  side  entrance  for  the  cognoscenti),  sur-  prised  me  when  she  began  to  pout  about  how  she  never  gets  to  go  to  the  beach,  how  she  should  have  rung  up  Anna-  marie  (she  has  dinner  there  from  time  to  time,  and  has  baby-sat  for  them  on  threeoccasions)  and  finagled  an  invita-  tion  to  join  them  if  she  had  only  known.  (What  beach,  you  might  well  ask.  Some  lakeside  resort  or  other,  with  sandy  beaches.)  I  think  she  surprised  Victor,  too.  He  thought,  perhaps,  that  he  was  calling  her  bluff  when  he  said,  &quot;Oh,  very  well  then,  we  go  to  the  beach.  Get  your  things.  A  towel.  I  cannot  swim,  though,  because  I  have  no  swimming  costume.&quot;  He  satat  Anne's  table  with  his  hands  placed  palms  up  before  him,  as  though  he  were  old  and  weary  and  unable  to  do  anything  but  acquiesce.  &quot;We  can  buy  you  a  suit  at  the  chemist's  on  the  corner-I've  seen  them  there,&quot;  Anne  said.  Victor  looked  helplessly  at  me.  I  didn't  know  what  he  wanted  me  to  say.  I  remember  when  Anne  patronized  mere  drugstores.  &quot;You  two  should  go,&quot;  I  began.  &quot;No!&quot;  they  chorused.  &quot;I  take  so  much  of  Anne's  time  from  you,  and  you  are  her  closest  friend-it  wouldn't  be  rightto  keep  her  for  the  whole  Sunday,&quot;  Victor  said.  &quot;There  isn't  much  privacy  at  a  beach  " b"anyway,&quot;  Anne  pointed  out,  as  if  this  were  a  practical  observation.  (They  weren't  going  to  fuck  anyway?  Something  about  this  remark  highlighted  the  illicit  point  of  this  whole  alliance.  It  felt  loaded  with  some  sort  of  beyond  obvious  sexual  jeme  sais  quoi  I  haven't  grasped  yet.)  So  Victor's  swim  togs  were  acquired,  and  we  were  all  heading  off  in  his  white  Citro\xc3\xa9n  toward  some  beach.  What  if  we  were  to  run  into  Victor's  family,  I  in-  quiredmildly  from  the  back  seat.I  never  know  if  it's  O.K.  to  bring  them  up  or  not.  &quot;We  go  to  [REDACTED],&quot;  Victor  says  over  his  shoulder  as  he  drives  too  fast  down  an  access  ramp  and  onto  a  highway  without  pausing,  which  causes  the  BMW  closing  in  behind  us  in  the  near  lane  to  swerve  around  the  Citro\xc3\xa9n  with  a  blaring  horn  and  an  obscene  gesture  from  the  driver.  &quot;Nazi!&quot;  hisses  Victor,  who  speeds  up.  Anne  puts  her  hand  on  his  arm,  and  we  drop  back.  &quot;He  had  Stuttgart  plates,&quot;  she  explains  to  me,  turning  her  head  so  she  can  see  me.  I  feel  as  though  I'm  out  with  somebody's  parents.  I  didn't  have  my  passport  with  me,  but  Victor  assured  me  that  no  one  would  check  at  the  border,  and  he  was  right;  we  were  waved  through,  Victor's  white  Citro\xc3\xa9n  looking  like  an  ambulance  racing  toward  the  scene  of  an  accident.  I'm  in  another  country,  I  thought.  I'm  in  [REDACTED].  The  lake  was  near  the  border,  and  we  were  there  in  minutes.  For  someone  who  doesn't  swim,  Victor  seemed  sur-  prisingly  well-informed  about  the  where-  abouts  of  this  beach,  where  the  parking  lot  was  situated,  where  to  change,  and  where  the  cold-drinks  stand  was.  We  changed  in  a  wooden  shack.  Vice-  tor  went  in  after  we  came  out  (I  feeling  particularly  thigh-conscious  in  my  old  black  bathing  suit;  Anne  looking  terrific  in  a  black  bikini  I  would  never  have  known  her  to  wear  in  her  former  life),  andemerged  wearing  his  new  swim  trunks,  his  office-y  white  button-down  shirt  open.  The  swim  trunks  were  an  imitation-Hawaiian  print  that  was  like  canned  laughter.  He  was  wearing  his  dark  socks  and  thick-soled  leather  shoes.  His  legs  were  somehow  pathetic  and  birdlike.  The  rest  of  him  seemed  more  commanding  and  intense.  I  felt  embar-  rassed  for  him  when  I  glanced  athis  hairless  shins.  We  aligned  ourselves  on  the  sand  with  Anne  between  us.  Victor  took  off  his  shoes  and  socks,  and  his  shirt,  which  he  folded  into  a  fussy  square  for  a  pillow.  Victor  and  Anne  lay  face  down  on  their  towels,  with  fingers  linked.  They  both  turned  their  heads  away  from  me.  I  think  their  eyes  were  closed.  I  had  the  feeling  that  all  the  other  people  there  knew  what  they  wanted  to  do.  I  felt  alone.  I  missed  you,  I  wanted  to  have  someone  with  me,  too,  so  I  wouldn't  be  the  third  wheel,  and  I  hadn't  brought  a  book.  Damn.  I  sat  upon  my  towel.  Nobody  was  swimming.  It  wasn't  very  hot.  There  were  only  a  few  other  people  around;  no  children  at  all.  A  woman  several  yards  from  us  was  sun-  bathing  with  the  top  of  her  suit  pulled  down  to  her  waist.  The  woman  sat  very  upright,  partially  facing  in  our  direction  in  order  to  catchevery  ray  of  the  sun,  with  her  legs  straight  out  in  front  of  her.  The  posture  emphasized  her  potbelly,  and  her  nipples  were  like  a  second  pair  of  eyes  looking  at  me.  I  regretted  the  de-  cision  to  leave  my  camera  in  the  flat.  I  felt  her  glaring  at  me  and  realized  I  had  been  staring.  I  was  glad  I  had  left  my  camera  in  the  flat.  I  began  to  dig  in  the  dry  sandwith  one  hand.  I  scrabbled  out  a  rather  large  ditch  that  described  the  are  my  arm  could  swing  through  freely  without  my  changing  position.  I  felt  something  un-  der  my  fingers.  It  was  a  white  plastic  tampon  applicator.  &quot;A  beach  whistle,&quot;  I  observed  to  Anne,     85  who  had  turned  her  head  my  way.  She  wrinkled  her  nose  in  distaste.  I  buried  it  near  my  feet,  where  I  wouldn't  disturb  it  again.  Either  these  beachgoers  were  un-  usually  tidy  or  the  French  comb  this  beach  regularly,  because  there  was  very  little  interesting  detritus.  I  would  have  expected  to  find  Gauloise  butts  galore.  I  felt  the  edge  of  a  shell  as  I  was  reinsert  ing  the  tampon  applicator  in  the  sand.  I  examined  the  shell.  It  was  nearly  flat,  somewhat  oval,  a  thin  yellow  bit  of  trans-  lucency.  It  reminded  me  of  the  sort  I  used  tofind  on  the  beach  the  summer  I  was  six,  when  I  spent  twomonths  with  my  mother  and  grandmother  in  Cornwall;  it's  a  kind  of  shell  I  haven't  seen  since.  &quot;Toenail,  anyone?&quot;  I  said,  offering  my  find  to  Anne.  &quot;Shut  up,  will  you?&quot;  she  said  to  me  with  surprising  intensity.  Was  this  a  No  Talking  beach?  I  had  no  idea  what  the  problem  was.  &quot;Yes,  please,  I  would  like  a  toenail,&quot;  came  Victor's  voice.  I  had  thought  he  was  asleep.  Hishead  was  still  turned  away.  &quot;Hello.  I  ordered  the  toenail.  Make  that  ten.  Could  you  deliver  them  right  away?&quot;  This  wasn't  Victor's  style,  that  I  knew  of.  Maybe  he  kidded  around  much  more  with  Anne  when  I  wasn't  there.  I  was  momentarily  confused.  &quot;Here's  one,&quot;  I  said,  holding  the  shell  out  to  him  over  Anne's  head.  She  had  lain  back  down  on  her  towel  and  was  squeezing  her  eyes  tight  shut.  Nobody  " b"    moved.  My  arm  was  still  extended  over  Anne.  Her  back  heaved,  and  I  realized  she  was  suppressing  sobs.  Victor's  head  was  still  turned  away.  His  voice  was  weirdly  disembodied.  &quot;Don't  you  have  them  ready  for  me?&quot;  he  said  languidly.  I  still  didn't  get  it.  He  rolled  over  and  sat  up.  &quot;Anne  is  now  upset  with  both  of  us,&quot;  he  announced.  &quot;She  is  upset  with  you  for  bringing  up  a  bad  subject.  You  did  not  know.  She  is  upset  with  me  for  playing  my  little  game  with  you.  Isn't  that  right?&quot;  Victor  pattedthe  top  of  Anne's  head  and  stroked  her  shoulders.  Something  about  her  tears  seemed  to  please  him.  He  was  now  sitting  up  in  the  same  doll-  like  position  as  the  topless  woman  on  my  right.  I  saw  his  feet.  Benedict,  I  know  human  flesh  can-  not  melt,  but  what  I  saw  looked  like  the  melted  stubs  of  feet.  Vic-  tor  has  no  toes.  They  froze  off  at  [REDACTED].  The  Allied  doc-  tors  wanted  to  amputate  his  feet,  but  he  wouldn't  let  them.  (Anne  told  me  all  this  when  Victor  went  to  get  us  cold  drinks  a  little  while  later.)  The  Pobble  grinned  at  me.  He  saw  me  seeing  his  feet.  I  did  not  like  his  de-  light  in  my  discomfort,  in  Anne's  an-  guish.  &quot;I'm  sorry,&quot;I  said,  meeting  his  gaze.  &quot;Of  course  you  are,&quot;  he  said,  rather  nastily,  I  thought.  &quot;Of  course  you  wouldn't  like  to  swim,&quot;  sobbed  Anne.  &quot;I  didn't  think.&quot;  &quot;Of  course  you  didn't,  my  pet,&quot;  said  Victor,  smiling  a  cold  smile.  WE  had  been  at  the  lake  for  about  an  hour,  and  we  stayed  there,  more  or  less  in  silence,  for  another  hour.  It  felt  necessary  to  sit  there  so  it  wouldn't  have  been  the  upsetting  discussion  that  made  us  leave,  even  though  I  doubt  that  I  was  the  only  one  who  felt  like  bolting  for  the  Citrogn.  While  Victor  fetched  Perriers  with  straws,  and  the  Belgian  mocha  biscuits  that  he  considers  superior  to  all  other  forms  of  cookie  life,  Anne  told  me  the  story  of  Victor's  toes,  gazing  out  at  the  lake  the  whole  time.  I  found  myself  imagining  their  sex  life  being  somehow  profoundly  affected  by  this  ab-  sence.  What  does  he  have  her  do  to  make  up  for  it?  As  Victor  struggled  across  the  sand  carrying  the  mineral  water  and  the  biscuits,  I  had  to  avoid  studying  his  gait.  RU  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JANUARY  25,  1993  He  had  put  on  his  shoes  and  socks  for  the  short  walk.  I  wondered  if  his  shoes  had  special  toe  weights  that  helped  him  walk.  Even  the  sight  of  his  fingers  grip-  ping  the  necks  of  the  Perrier  bottles  was  mildly  surprising.  I  wondered  if  his  toes  had  looked  like  his  fingers.  I  curled  and  uncurled  my  own  toes  uncontrollably.  The  drive  back  to  Geneva  was  mostly  silent.  We  all  three  of  us  had  terrible  sunburns.  &quot;Merde,&quot;  muttered  Anne  when  she  was  through  studying  herself  in  Victor's  rearview  mirror.  (I  was  relieved  when  she  was  finished,  as  I  thought  he  might  want  to  have  theuse  of  it  on  the  high-  way.)  &quot;In  the  office  tomorrow,  how  do  we  explain  matching  sunburns?&quot;  &quot;I  went  to  the  beach  with  my  family,  andyou  went  to  a  different  beach  with  your  visiting  friend,&quot;  Victor  answered.  &quot;Thousands  of  people  went  to  the  beach  today.  Why  worry  about  the  coincidence  of  it?&quot;  What  a  shit,  I  thought.  A  charming  shit.  With  a  sunburn.  And  no  toes.  I'm  sorry,  Benedict,  how  did  we  get  here?Right:  Anne  and  I  were  walking  along  the  side  of  the  road  on  our  way  to  the  trout  restaurant,  she  with  her  skirt  flying  and  her  sexy  legs,  I  with  my  sunburn  and  in  the  blue  dress  you  like.  Anne  had  just  reportedover  her  shoulder  that  we  were  nearly  there  when  a  car  skidded  onto  the  gravel  in  front  of  us,  giving  me  a  serious  scare.  It  was  Victor's  white  Citro\xc3\xa9n.  &quot;Would  you  like  a  ride?&quot;  Anne  played  it  as  if  he  were  a  stranger.  &quot;No,  thanks  anyway.  Merci,  nor.&quot;  Victor  waggled  his  eyebrows  at  me.  I  shrugged.  &quot;Very  well,  ladies.  He  drove  off.  I  could  see  his  tail-light  flash  about  a  quarter  mile  up  the  road,  and  then  the  Citro\xc3\xa9n  turned  right  and  was  lost  from  sight.  &quot;It's  better  to  arrive  separately,  in  case  anyone's  there,&quot;  she  said  over  her  shoulder.  &quot;Anyone?&quot;  &quot;Any  friend  of  Annamarie's.  Any  friend  of  the  family.&quot;  &quot;You're  a  friend  of  the  family.&quot;  &quot;Don't  be  dense,&quot;  she  said  reprov-  ingly.  &quot;It  would  be  a  disaster.&quot;  She  lin-  gered  over  the  word  &quot;disaster&quot;  the  way  some  people  savor  the  words  &quot;foie  gras.&quot;  Although  the  Citro\xc3\xa9n  had  been  in  " b" the  parking  lot  for  ten  minutes  by  the  time  we  approached  the  maitre  d's  pul-  pit,  Victor  was  nowhere  in  evidence.  &quot;We  have  a  reservation  for  three?&quot;  Anne  saidin  French.  &quot;The  name  is  Goldfarb.&quot;  We  were  shown  to  a  table  in  an  el-  egant  garden  courtyard.  It  was  early  by  Swiss  standards,  and  we  were  the  first  customers  of  theevening.  There  were  only  five  or  six  tables,  all  covered  to  the  ground  with  snowy  tablecloths,  and  very  widely  spaced  across  the  white  gravel  courtyard.  The  tables  were  all  big  enough  to  seat  eight  or  ten  people.  Ours  had  three  place  settings,  at  noon,  four,  and  eight.  Anne  and  I  picked  uptwo  wine-  glasses  and  moved  together  in  the  direc-  tion  of  the  third.  We  sat  down,  leaving  a  place  for  Victor  between  us.  This  might  seem  like  asmall  thing,  but  moments  like  that  are  what  our  friendship  thrives  on,  has  thriven  on,  that  in-synch,  &quot;two  thoughts  with  but  a  single  mind&quot;  kind  of  instant,  commonplace  when  we  were  roommates  in  New  York  but  so  rare  since  I've  been  here  that  I  made  a  mental  note  of  it.  A  flurry  of  Bemelmans  waiters  rushed  to  rearrange  the  place  settings.  (What  we  had  done  was  very  naughty.)  There  was  a  stream  running  by,  only  a  few  feet  from  us,  and  the  noise  of  it  meant  that  we  had  to  raise  our  voices  slightly  to  converse,  even  after  our  re-  arrangement.  &quot;So  typical,&quot;  said  Anne.  &quot;So  Swiss  to  seat  us  that  way-so  we  use  the  table  completely-with  no  thought  to  conver-  sational  distances.&quot;  &quot;Or  something.  Maybe  they  don't  like  the  idea  of  private  conversations,&quot;  I  suggested.  &quot;And  who  is  Goldfarb?&quot;  &quot;I  thought  you  knew.&quot;  &quot;Do  I?&quot;  Did  I?  &quot;It  was  my  father's  father's  name.  Daddy  changed  it.&quot;  &quot;Why?&quot;  &quot;Anti-Semitism,  I  suppose.&quot;  I  thought  ofan  imperious  dowager  of  Scottish  ancestry  (and  proud  of  it)  called  Peggy  Gordon.  I  once  heard  her  say  to  my  grandmother,  Gay,  that  she  thought  half  the  Gordons  in  New  York  were  Jews  who  had  changed  their  names  from  Goldfarb,  Goldstein,  and  so  on.  &quot;Why  can't  they  just  change  it  to  Gold?&quot;  Peggy  had  asked  plaintively.  &quot;It's  shorter  and  neater,  but  you  can  stilltell.  I  would  " b" rather  expect  them  to  like  a  nice,  glitter-  ing  name  like  Gold.&quot;  Gay  had  laughed  and  offered  her  more  to  drink.  I  thought,  from  my  van-  tage  point  in  Gay's  bedroom,  where  I  was  sorting  out  all  her  jewelry  on  her  bedspread-I  must  have  been  about  ten-that  her  laugh  was  not  so  much  with  Peggy  asat  her.  There  was  also  my  own  parentage  to  consider.  I  was  not  only  Gay  Gibson's  granddaughter,  I  was  Simon  Rose's  daughter.  I  wonder  now  whether  Peggy  Gordon  ever  considered  for  one  second  that  her  words  could  hurt  me,  could  hurt  my  feelings.  Doubtful.  It  probably  didn't  occur  to  her  that  I  thought  of  myself  as  Jewish.  She  always  fussed  over  me  because  I  looked  so  much  like  a  Gibson.  I  had  &quot;the  Gibson  upper  lip.&quot;  Gay  was  fond  of  her  because  they  went  back  a  long  way,  andhad  travelled  to  Reno  together  for  their  first  divorces.  By  the  time  I  was  six  I  knew  that  the  Truckee  River  ran  through  Reno,  where  you  went  for  a  divorce.  You  stood  on  a  bridge  and  threw  your  now  meaningless  wedding  ring  into  that  river.  Once,  when  I  was  little,  the  people  next  door,  the  Antlers,  had  a  terrible  ar-  gument,  and  Mrs.  Antler  ran  out  the  front  door  and  threw  her  wedding  ring  into  the  bushes  in  front  of  their  house.  I  saw  her  do  it.  That  night  I  watched  from  my  bedroom  window  as  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Antler  together  hunted  through  those  bushes,  on  their  knees,  with  flash-  lights,  for  hours.  So,  Benedict,  where  I  come  from  there  were  a  lot  of  wedding  rings  tossed  around.  Me,  when  I  have  a  wedding  ring,  I  don't  intend  to  take  it  off.  Ever.  Just  so  you  know.  Victor  sidled  into  the  courtyard  just  when  the  waiter  was  presenting  us  with  menus  as  big  as  the  bonnet  of  a  small  car.  Victor  joined  us,  and  the  waiter  nearly  knocked  off  Victor's  reading  glasses  as  he  flourished  another  menu  under  his  nose.  We  were  each  hidden  from  sight  behind  this  menu  flotilla.  Ev-  erything  about  this  place  was  slightly  oversized.  Perhaps  that  signifies  luxury.  I  imagine  that  we  looked,  from  above,  like  three  giant  moths  poised  for  flight.  THE  voice  of  Victor  insisted  that  I  order  the  Truite  au  Bleu,  the  spe-  cialty  of  the  place.  He  ordered  gray  sole  for  Anne,  who  contributed  no  thoughts  of  her  own  about  what  she  would  like  to  eat.  &quot;I  will  take  the  steak,&quot;  he  said  to  the  waiter-rather  imperiously,  I  thought.  Why  did  it  bother  me  so?  &quot;I  will  take  the  steak.&quot;  I  have  no  toes,  so  I  will  not  mere-  ly  have,  as  others  do,  but  I  will  take.  I  sur-  vived  childhood  at  [REDACTED],  so  I  can  cheat  on  my  wife  and  I  will  take  the  steak.  The  waiter  plucked  away  the  menus.  I  cannot  begin  to  enumerate  all  the  ways  that  I  do  not  like  this  man.  I  do  not  like  what  Anne  has  become,  is  becoming,  will  become.  A  spinster  with  a  special  feeling  for  a  certain  flower  stall.  (Victor  bought  her  flowers  there  once;  she  has  taken  me  to  see  the  particular  shade  of  roses  this  vender  sells,  and  I  was  made  to  admire  them  as  if  the  very  shade  of  pink  signals  the  deep  significance  of  itall.)  A  childless  woman  alone  on  holidays.  A  woman  with  a  gray  soul.  Why  did  I  expect  that  Anne  would  pay  for  this  meal?  In  fact,  in  the  end  she  did  pick  up  the  check,  but  not  because  Victor  managed  the  simple  maneuver  of  looking  the  other  way.  No,  by  the  time  the  check  came  it  was  much  more  com-  plicated  than  that.  Our  starters  had  been  served,  con-  sumed,  and  cleared  (duck-liver  pat\xc3\xa9  and  vegetable  terrine,  quite  good,  actually,  though  Victor  had  been  unpleasant  with  the  waiter's  suggestion  that  he  might  like  soup-thoughtless  of  the  waiter  not  to  realize  that,  having  lived  on  ghastly  soup  in  a  concentration  camp,  Victor  is  greatly  pained  when  soup  possibilities  arise  in  his  present  life)  when  another  group  was  seated  across  from  us.  At  this  point  Anne  was  seated  be-  tween  Victor  and  me;  when  Victor  was  shown  to  our  table,  Anne  had  moved  over  nearer  to  me,  either  despite  or  in  re-  sponse  to  Victor's  murmured,  &quot;Ah,  I  shall  be  a  thorn  between  two  roses.&quot;  So  we  had  got  ourselves  into  the  same  con-  figuration  asat  the  beach.  I  thought  I  saw  Victor  looking  uncomfortable,  but  I  didn't  think  it  was  in  response  to  any-  thing  said,  as  our  conversation  at  that  juncture  was  pointless  and  desultory,  mostly  about  the  food.  The  next  time  I  turned  my  head  Victor  had  disappeared.  He  had  simply  vanished.  Anne  looked  quite  disturbed.  &quot;What  happened  to  Victor?&quot;  I  felt,  for  a  brief  moment,  on  the  edge  of  hys-  teria,  like  Ingrid  Bergman  in  &quot;Gaslight.&quot;  I  also  had  an  absurd  sense  that  Anne  was  about  to  launch  into  a  complete       " b" summary  of  What  Happened  to  Victor,  up  to  and  including  theAllied  doctors  wanting  to  amputate  those  hideous  feet.  Was  Victor  a  demon?  A  golem?  I  wished  I  had  taken  his  picture.  &quot;Victor  is  right  here-he's  under  the  table,&quot;  Anne  murmured,  looking  straight  ahead,  her  lips  barely  moving.  Her  ten-  sion  was  almost  comical.  I  half  expected  her  to  say,  &quot;Just  act  natural.&quot;  &quot;May  I  ask  why?&quot;  &quot;A  woman  who  plays  tennis  with  Annamarie  is  at  that  table.&quot;  &quot;Ah.  An  F.  of  the  F.&quot;  &quot;Don't-this  is  serious,&quot;  Anne  ground  out  at  me  through  clenched  teeth.  There  was  a  muffled  gasp  from  under  our  table.  In  an  at-  tempt  to  kick  me,  she  had  kicked  Victor.  Our  main  courses  ar-  rived,  borne  out  to  the  courtyard  by  three  waiters  in  a  procession.  Each  car-  ried  a  tray  on  which  was  a  plate  under  a  silver  dome.  The  domed  plates  were  placed  before  us.  Victor's  was  set  down  athisplace.  The  three  waiters  looked  confused.  &quot;Monsieur?&quot;  one  murmured.  &quot;Monsieurhad  to  leave,&quot;  Anne  re-  plied,  in  English,  so  indistinctly  that  the  waiter  almost  couldn't  hear  her  over  the  rushing  of  the  stream.  He  cupped  his  hand  behind  one  ear  and  bent  down  over  her  shoulder.  &quot;Is  everything  all  right,  Mademoi-  selle?&quot;  he  asked,  also  switching  to  English.  &quot;Out,&quot;  she  answered,  cutting  off  any  further  discussion.  &quot;You  can  leave  the  steak,&quot;  I  said,  fig-  uring  that  Victor  might  still  want  to  eat  it  somehow.  Also,  we  were  going  to  have  to  pay  for  it.  Hell,  I  would  take  it  home  and  eat  it.  The  waiters  glumly  went  through  their  ritual  of  simultaneous  revelation,  whisking  all  three  silver  domes  high  into  the  air  after  a  wordless  count  of  three.  Victor's  absence  had  spoiled  it  for  them.  Now  what?  Anne  and  I  ate  dinner  in  total  silence.  One  of  her  hands  was  in  her  lap  all  through  the  meal;  I  realized  that  she  must  be  stroking  Victor's  head  or  something.  &quot;Look,  does  this  happen  a  lot?&quot;  She  shook  her  head,  giving  me  reason  to  believe  that  it  did  and  that  discussion  about  it  was  unwelcome  at  this  time.  I  didn't  know  whether  to  hurry  or  linger     THE  NEW  YORKER,  JANUARY  25,  1993  over  the  food.  How  were  we  going  to  get  Victor  out  of  there  unseen?  I  poked  at  my  trout,  which  stared  me  down.  I  ate  my  potatoes  and  my  courgette  match-  sticks  done  up  in  a  bundle  and  tied  with  a  string  of  chive.  My  few  days  in  Geneva  with  Anne  had  seemed  beyond  ordinary  experience  from  the  start,  but  this  evening  was  now  taking  on  aspects  of  a  de  Chirico.  The  waiters,  the  artificial  outdoor  setting,  the  imitation  of  gracious  service,  the  con-  trived  arrangements  of  food,  the  de-  ception  of  Anne's  true  love  lurking  un-  der  the  tablecloth-nothing  seemed  real.  The  food  had  no  taste  in  my  mouth.  The  wine,  a  Gewiirz,  tasted  like  glass.  Across  from  us,  the  waiter  was  erecting  menus  in  front  of  the  people  at  the  table  with  Annamanrie's  tennis  friend,  and,  when  he  had  worked  his  way  around,  their  view  in  our  direction  was  completely  obscured.  Vic-  tor  must  have  been  on  the  lookout  for  this  opportunity;  he  flung  the  tablecloth  up  and  bolted  straight  out  like  a  sprinter  crouched  at  the  starting  block  when  the  gun  goes  off.  Anne  and  I  sat  very  still,  as  if  we  had  agreed  in  advance  to  ignore  this  mo-  ment.  Without  turning  my  head  I  saw  the  edge  of  Victor's  jacket  go  by,  and  I  couldhear  for  an  instant  the  crunching  of  Victor's  shoes  on  gravel;  perhaps  I  only  thought  I  could  hear  the  Citro\xc3\xa9n  engine  turn  over.  The  escape  from  Stalag  17  was  a  complete  success.  The  people  at  the  next  table  ordered  very  fussily  and  precisely,  with  much  mutual  consulting,  and  their  menus  were  folded  away  one  by  one  until  the  waiter  bustled  off  with  news  of  their  choices  for  the  kitchen.  I  asked  our  waiter  for  Victor's  un-  touched  steak  to  be  wrapped  so  we  could  take  it  home.  The  waiter  sneered  and  or-  dered  a  busboy  to  do  it.  Anne  declined  salad,  cheese,  a  sweet,  and  coffee,  and  I  didn't  argue,  although  I  would  have  liked  coffee.  The  waiter  shrugged  and  deposited  the  already  totalled  check  on  our  table,  showing  that  he  had  expected  as  much.  Anne  paid.  I  had  credit  cards  and  cash,  which  I  offered,  but  she  didn't  want  to  talk  about  it.  The  busboy  re-  turned  with  the  steak  wrapped  in  foil  that  had  been  fashioned  sarcastically  into  " b"the  shape  of  a  swan,  with  the  neck  form-  inga  sort  of  handle.  We  got  up  to  leave.  I  said,  &quot;What  about-&quot;  and  Anne  shushed  me  so  furi-  ously  that  I  felt  slapped,  humiliated.  We  left  the  courtyard.  As  we  turned  out  of  the  restaurant  entrance,  and  Anne  stalked  past  the  empty  spot  where  the  Citro\xc3\xa9n  had  been  parked,  I  realized  we  were  taking  the  bus  back.  Damn.  I  had  been  looking  forward  to  the  comfort  of  a  car  ride  after  dinner.  We  filed  along  in  uncompanionable  silence,  which  was  disturbed  now  and  again  by  the  rush  of  passing  cars.  It  was  even  weirder  to  be  traipsing  along  this  road  at  night.  Cars  sometimes  slowed  in  an  alarming  way.  I  felt  eyes  appraising  us.  I  was  following  Anne,  as  before,  and  could  not  decipher  those  shoulders,  that  stride.  I  felt  like  a  child,  with  my  party-  favor  swan.  I  thought  of  Victor,  driving  alone  in  his  Citro\xc3\xa9n.  I  ought  to  feel  something  like  sympathy  for  him,but  I  don't.  I  try  to  see  him  through  Anne's  eyes,  but  I  can't.  The  bus  stop  was  lit  by  a  solitary  street  lamp.  It  felt  futile  to  wait  there,  long  after  any  bus  might  come  along,  but  Anne  assured  me  that  they  ran  hourly.  &quot;What  do  you  suppose  Victor  is  go-  ing  to  do  about  dinner?&quot;  I  finally  asked,  wanting  to  say  something,  not  that  Victor's  alimentary  requirements  were  high  on  my  list  of  concerns.  &quot;That's  his  Axminster,  don't  you  think?&quot;  &quot;Do  you  think  the  woman  recognized  you?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  see  how  she  could  have,  as  she's  never  seen  me.&quot;  &quot;Where  do  you  suppose  Annamarie  thinks  Victor  is  tonight?&quot;  &quot;I  haven't  the  foggiest.  I  never  think  about  that.&quot;  &quot;Don't  you  think  you  ought  to,  from  time  to  time?&quot;  There  was  the  longest,  most  uncom-  fortable  silence.  Like  a  mirage,  our  bus  came  into  view.  H,  Benedict.  Is  this  what  love  is,  what  love  makes  people  do?  On  the  one  hand:  would  you  hide  under  a  table  for  me?  On  the  other  hand:  why  the  hell  would  you  need  to?  Maybe  I'm  just  smug  be-  cause  I've  got  you,and,  compared  to  this,  ours  is  a  simple  life.  Sometimes,  for  admittedly  brief  interludes,  I  persuade  myself  that  it's  all  romantic,  and  Euro-  pean,  and  I'm  a  gauche  American  with  naive  ideas  about  how  the  world  is.  But  no.  This  is  awful.  I  could  leave  before  my  two  weeks  are  up,  but  Anne  wants  me  here;  she's  made  several  cryp-  tic  remarks  about  how  important  this  visit  is  to  her.  Maybe  I'm  supposed  to  bear  witness  to  this  glorious  erotic  con-  nection.  Maybe  I'm  supposed  to  pass  judgment.  (Ignatz  Mouse  wanted  to  go  to  jail,  remember.  Am  I  here  to  see  the  flung  brick  and  play  Offissa  Pup?)  And  then  there's  you,  whom  I  miss  very  much.  How  is  life  at  the  most  uncompetitive  tennis  camp  in  New  England?  I  picture  you  surrounded  by  rich  children  in  tennis  whites  scarfing  down  hot  dogs  while  you  sweat  over  the  grill.  Luckies.  They  are  sunburned  and  demanding.  You  are  sunburned  and  pa-  tient.  There  is  red  clay  staining  your  sneakers  and  the  left  pocket  of  your  shorts.  You  wish  you  could  have  a  beer.  A  camper  with  a  bee  sting  cries.  Smoke  gets  in  your  eyes.  If  you  think  I  sound  confused  about  Anne  and  Victor,  you're  right.  I  don't  Iknow  which  I  fear  more:  feeling  I  might  have  to  do  something,  or  feeling  I  can't  do  anything.  And  which  would  be  worse?  Do  I  just  want  to  punish  Victor?  Could  Annamarie  possibly  be  grateful  for  a  note,  a  telephone  call,  or  would  that  be  a  be-  trayal  of  Anne,  despite  its  being  for  the  best?  And  would  it  be  for  the  best?  I've  got  to  go,  but  one  more  thing.  When  I  was  seven,  I  was  standing  on  the  corner  at  Second  Avenue  and  Fifty-  ninth  Street  with  my  grandmother-we  were  on  our  way  to  Central  Park-when  a  little  boy  darted  into  the  street  in  front  of  us.  Gay  let  go  my  hand  and  lifted  him  up  onto  the  sidewalk  with  a  quick  un-  derarm  hoist,  and  then  he  turned  around  in  a  fury,  no  little  boy  at  all  but  a  middle-aged  dwarf,  with  acne  scars  and  a  Don  Ameche  mustache.  He  was  about  my  height.  &quot;Fuck  you,  lady!&quot;  he  said-a  reason-  able  response,  I  suppose,  to  being  res-  cued  when  you  don't  need  to  be  rescued  at  all.  But  maybe  he  was  in  danger.  I've  never  thought  of  that  possibility  until  right  now.  Maybe  she  did  the  right  thing.  What  do  you  think?  I  love  you  for  sentimental  reasons  HARRIET "