 b" FICTION  ZALLA  by  Ann  Beattie  ECENTLY,  I  had  reason  to  think  R  about  Thomas  Kurbell-Little  Thomas,  as  the  familyalways  called  him.  Little  Thomas  fooled  the  older  members  of  the  family  for  a  while  because  he  was  so  polite  as  a  child-al-  most  obsequious-and  because  his  fa-  ther,  Thomas,  Sr.,  had  been  a  genuinely  nice  man.  Ours  was  an  urban  family,  based  in  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  and  Little  Thomas's  father's  death  reinforced  every  bit  of  paranoia  everyone  had  about  life  in  the  country.  No  matter  that  he  actually  died  of  complications  of  pneumonia,  which  he  had  contracted  in  the  hospital  as  he  was  lying  in  traction,  recovering  from  a  broken  leg,  shattered  ankle,  and  patched-together  pelvis,  suffered  after  falling  from  a  hay  wagon.  Legend  had  it  that  he'd  died  instantly  from  the  fall,  and  this  was  always  invoked  as  a  cautionary  warning  to  any  youngster  in  thefamily  who  took  an  inter-  est  in  skiing  or  sailing  or  even  hiking.  For  the  sake  of  storytelling,  Thomas,  Sr.,'s  death  often  dovetailed  into  the  long-ago  death  of  his  cousin  Pete,  who  had  been  struck  by  lightning  when  he  gotout  to  investigate  a  backup  on  the  Brooklyn  Bridge:  Wham!  With  Thomas  still  sliding  out  of  the  hay  wagon,  there  was  a  sudden  bolt  of  electricity  and  Pete,  moved  to  New  York  City,  was  struck  dead,  lit  up  for  such  a  quick  second  it  seemed  somebody  was  just  taking  a  pic-  ture  with  a  flash.  I  suppose  it's  true  in  many  families  that  some  things  get  to  be  lumped  together  for  effect,  and  others  to  obscure  some  issue.  I  was  thirty  years  old  before  I  got  the  chronology  of  the  two  deaths  correct.  It's  just  the  way  people  in  our  family  tell  stories:  it  wasn't  done  to  mislead  Little  Thomas.  Little  Thomas  was  a  sneaky  child.  He'd  sneak  around  for  no  good  reason,  padding  through  the  house  in  his  socks,  sometimes  scaring  his  mother  and  his  sister  Lilly  when  they  turned  a  corner  and  found  him  standing  there  like  a    statue.  His  mother  always  said  Little  Thomas  had  no  radar.  No  instinct  for  avoiding  people  and  things.  His  go-  ing  around  in  his  socks  made  things  worse,  because  if  you  were  frightened  and  yelped  he  would  become  fright-  ened,  too,  and  burst  into  tears  or  top-  ple  something  from  a  table  in  his  fright.  But  he  wouldn't  wear  shoes  in  the  house-to  get  even  with  his  mother,  he  said,  for  making  him  wear  boots  to  school  on  days  when  it  wasn't  even  raining,  only  damp-and  no  amount  of  pleading  or  punishment  could  make  him  change  his  ways.  As  he  got  older,  he  deliberately  frightened  his  sister  from  time  to  time,  because  he  loved  to  see  her  jump,  but  most  of  the  scares  with  his  mother  were  unin-  tentional,  he  later  main-  tained.  Little  Thomas's  mother  was  named  Etta  Sue.  She  was  five  years  older  than  my  mother,  Alice  Dawn  Rose.  There  was  a  brother  in  rheumatic  fever.  Though  Etta  Sue  married  a  man  named  Thomas  Kurbell,  she  maintained  that  Little  Thomas  was  named  not  for  him  but  for  her  dead  brother,  Thomas  Wyatt.  Little  Thomas's  middle  name  was  Nathaniel.  &quot;She  put  that  name  in  because  she  wanted  to  include  every-  body,  even  the  milkman,&quot;  Thomas,  Sr.,  used  to  say.  Apparently,  the  milkman  was  a  subject  of  fond  kidding  between  them:  she  really  did  like  the  milkman,  and  he  became  a  family  friend.  He'd  push  open  the  back  door,  come  in  and  wipe  off  the  milk  bottles  before  putting  them  on  the  top  shelf  of  the  refrigerator,  and  then  pour  himself  some  tea  and  sit  and  talk  to  whoever  happened  to  be  in  the  kitchen-Thomas,  Sr.;  my  mother,  on  a  visit,  me.  He  was  Nat  the  Milk-  man.  One  time  when  I  wasn't  there,  Little  Thomas  jumped  out  of  the  broom  closet  and  startled  Nat  the  Milkman,  and  Nat  grabbed  him  and  flipped  him  over,  holding  him  upside  down  by  his  between,  who  had  died  of  ankles  for  a  good  long  while.  This  was  the  reason  Little  Thomas  hated  him.  As  well  as  slipping  around  in  his  stocking  feet,  Little  Thomas  was  quiet  and  rarely  could  be  coaxed  into  a  conver-  sation.  He  was  quiet  and  troubled-that  much  thefamily  would  finally  allow,  though  they  refused  to  admit  that  there  were  any  real  problems.  It  was  said  he  was  troubled  because  he'd  had  to  wear  glasses  as  a  child.  Or  because  his  father  was  so  personable  that  he'd  presented  his  son  with  a  hard  act  to  follow.  Later,  Little  Thomas's  asthma  was  blamed,  and  then  his  guilt  over  the  fact  that  Punkin  Puppy,  the  family's  russet-  colored  mutt,  had  to  be  given  away  be-  cause  of  Little  Thomas's  allergies.  Growing  up,  I  heard  these  things  over  and  over.  The  reasons  were  like  a  man-  tra,  or  like  the  stages  of  grief  being  ex-  plained-the  steps  from  denial  to  accep-  tance.  By  the  time  he  was  a  teen-ager,  it  was  no  longer  a  question  just  of  his  be-  ing  troubled  but  of  his  actively  troubling  others.  Garden  hoses  were  turned  on  in  the  neighbors'  gardens  lateat  night,  washing  their  flowers  away  in  great  landslides  of  mud;  brown  bags  filled  with  dog  excrement  were  set  burning  on  some  neighbor's  porch,  so  whoever  opened  the  door  would  be  ankle-deep  in  dog  shit  when  hestomped  out  the  flames.  Things  got  worse,  and  then  Little  Thomas  was  sent  away  to  a  special  school.  ESTERDAY  I  visited  my  mother  in  her  new  apartment  in  Alexandria.  She  was  afraid  of  crime  in  downtown  [REDACTED]  and  thought  she  should  re-  locate.  Her  nurse-companion  came  with  her,  a  kindhearted  woman  named  Zalla,  who  attended  the  school  of  nursing  at  American  University  two  nights  a  week  and  every  summer.  When  she  got  her  nursing  degree,  Zalla  intended  to  return  to  her  home,  Belize,  where  she  was  go-  ing  to  work  in  a  hospital.  The  hospital  was  still  under  construction.  Building  had  to  be  stopped  when  the  architect  was  accused  of  embezzling;  then  the  hurricane  struck.  But  Zalla  had  faith  " b"that  the  hospital  would  be  completed,  that  she  would  eventually  graduate  from  nursing  school,  and  that-though  this  went  unsaid-she  would  not  be  with  my  mother  forever.  My  mother  has  emphy-  sema  and  diabetes,  and  needs  someone  with  her.  Zalla  cooks  and  washes  and  does  any  number  of  things  no  one  ex-  pects  her  to  do,  and  during  the  day  she's  never  off  her  feet.  At  night  she  watches  James  Bond  movies  over  and  over  on  my  mother's  VCR.  My  mother  sits  in  the  TV  room  with  her,  rereading  Dickens.  She  says  the  James  Bond  movies  provide  wonderful  soundtracks  for  the  stories.  Carly  Simon  singing  &quot;Nobody  Does  It  Better&quot;  in  &quot;The  Spy  Who  Loved  Me&quot;  as  my  mother's  reading  about  Mr.  Pickwick.  Anyway,  what  happened  was  in  no  way  Zalla's  fault,  but  she  was  tortured  by  guilt.  Days  after  the  incident  I'm  going  to  tell  about,  which  I  heard  of  when  I  visited,  Zalla  was  still  upset.  That  Monday,  my  mother  had  checked  into  Sibley  hospital  for  a  day  of  tests.  In  the  afternoon,  there  was  a  knock  on  the  door  and  Zalla  looked  out  of  the  peephole  andsaw  Little  Thomas.  She'd  met  him  several  times  through  the  years,  so  of  course  she  let  him  in.  He  said  he  was  there  to  return  some  dishes  my  mother  had  let  him  borrow  when  he  was  setting  up  housekeeping.  He  also  wanted  tosay  goodbye,  because  he  was  moving  out  of  the  apartment  he'd  been  sharing  with  other  people  in  Landover,  [REDACTED],  and  was  headed  down  to  the  [REDACTED]  Keys  to  tend  bar.  Then  he  worked  the  conversation  around  to  ask-  ing  Zalla  for  a  loan:  fifty  dollars,  which  he'd  send  back  as  soon  as  he  got  to  Key  West  and  opened  a  bank  account  and  deposited  some  checks.  She  had  thirty-  some  dollars  and  gave  him  everything  shehad,  minus  the  bus  fare  she  needed  to  get  to  Sibley  hospital  that  evening.  He  asked  for  a  sheet  of  paper  so  he  could  write  a  goodbye  note  to  my  mother,  and  Zalla  found  him  a  notepad.  He  sat  at  the  kitchen  table,  writing.  It  didn't  occur  to  her  to  stand  over  him.  She  unpacked  the  dishes  and  loaded  them  into  the  dishwasher,  and  then  tidied  up  in  the  TV  room.  He  wrote  and  wrote.  He  was  writing  my  mother  a  nasty  note,  telling  her  that  through  therapy  he  had  come  to  realize  that  the  family  perpetuated  harmful  myths,  and  that  no  one  had  ever  chosen  to  &quot;come  clean&quot;  about  his  father's  death,  because  his  father  had  actually  died  of  pneumo-  nia,  not  from  the  fall  off  a  wagon.  He  told  her  how  horrifying  it  had  been  to  see  his  father  slipping  away  in  the  hospi-  tal,  and  he  blamed  her  and  Etta  Sue  for  always  discussing  [REDACTED]  Pete's  last  moments  when  they  talked  about  his  father's  death.  &quot;Fact  is,  lightning  im-  pressed  you  more  than  simple  pneumo-  nia,&quot;  he  wrote.  He  also  thought  they  should  have  talked  more  to  him  about  his  father's  accomplishments.  He  thought  they  should  have  told  about  his  father's  love  for  him.  He  made  no  men-  tion  of  his  sister  Lilly,  from  whom  he  was  estranged.  He  folded  the  note  and  put  it  under  the  saltshaker,  and  then  he  mixed  himself  a  cup  of  instant  cocoa  and  left,  taking  the  mug  he  was  drinking  from.  Zalla  was  nervous.  She  thought  he  might  have  been  drinking,  though  his  breath  didn't  smell  of  alcohol.  He'd  gone  to  the  bathroom  while  he  was  there,  so  Zalla  went  into  the  bathroom  to  make  sure  everything  was  all  right.  It  was,  but  she  still  had  an  uneasy  feeling.  It  wasn't  until  that  evening,  when  she  left  for  the  hospital  to  escort  my  mother  home,  that  she  saw  the  black  felt-pen  graffiti  on  the  wall  in  the  downstairs  hallway:  stick  people  with  corkscrew  hair  like  Mar-  tians'  antennae,  and  a  quickly  scrawled  &quot;sCREW  YOU  BLOWING  THIS  JOINT.&quot;  She  was  horrified,  and  at  first  she  thought  she'd  keep  quiet  about  Little  Thomas's  visit-just  pretend  it  was  all  a  mystery-but  she  knew  that  was  wrong  99  and  she'd  have  to  make  a  full  disclosure.  By  the  time  I  heard  the  story,  Zalla  and  my  mother  had  agreed  he  was  prob-  ably  drunk-or,  worse,  on  drugs-and  that  he  was  a  coward  to  pretend  to  con-  front  my  mother,  when  all  he  did  was  write  a  note.  He  also  hadn't  had  the  nerve  to  face  his  own  mother,  who  was  still  Iiving  on  Twentieth  Street,  and  tell  her  that  he  was  moving  away.  Zalla  kept  quiet  about  the  thirty  dollars,  but  the  next  morning  she  confessed  that,  too.  In  with  the  dishes  he'd  brought  backwere  several  strange,  gold-bordered  plates  my  mother  had  not  given  him;  neither  she  nor  Zalla  knew  exactly  what  to  make  of  that.  Both  feared,  irrationally,  that  someone  would  now  come  for  the  plates.  They  seemed  to  understand,  though,  that  Little  Thomas  was  gone  and  wouldn't  be  heard  from  for  some  time,  if  ever.  Zalla  remained  afraid  of  him,  in  the  abstract.  She  said  he'd  crept  around  like  a  burglar.  That  gave  my  mother  and  me  a  good  laugh,  because  he'd  been  sneaky  all  his  life.  Good  that  he  spared  Mother's  bathroom  wall,  I  joked:  bad  enough  that  they'd  had  to  call  the  man-  agement  to  apologize  and  to  arrange  to  have  the  hallway  repainted.  While  Zalla  watched  &quot;Goldfinger,&quot;  my  mother  led  me  into  her  bedroom  and  told  me  one  of  the  Dark  Secrets  she'd  never  before  revealed.  It  turned  out  she  had  always  feared  Little  Thomas  would  do  something  really  awful,  because  he  had  done  something  very  bad  as  a  child.  My  mother  had  been  furious,  but  she  had  never  told  on  him,  because  she  was    " b"100  embarrassed  at  her  own  fury,  and  also  because  she  felt  that  Little  Thomas's  de-  mons  tortured  him  enough.  She  asked  whether  I  remembered  the  silhouettes.  I  did  remember  them,  vaguely,  though  I  had  to  be  reminded  that  they'd  once  hung  on  a  satin  ribbon  in  Etta  Sue's  living  room.  I  remembered  them  from  later  on,  when  they'd  hung  below  the  light  above  the  bed  in  my  mother's  bedroom,  attached  to  the  same  ribbon.  There  had  also  beenone  of  Lilly,  as  a  baby,  and  another  of  Punkin  Puppy,  in  separate  frames.  The  three  framed  silhouettes  on  the  ribbon  had  been  of  Thomas,  Sr.,  Etta  Sue,  and  the  man  who,  Etta  Sue  told  my  mother,  had  cut  the  silhouettes.  Etta  Sue  explained  this  somewhat  humorous  fact  by  saying  that  the  silhouette  cutter  was  going  to  throw  his  self-portrait  away-he  probably  did  them  the  way  secretaries  practice  their  typing,  or  something-and  that  she  had  rescued  it  from  the  trash.  Little  Thomas  had  destroyed  Ais  silhouette  before  it  got  into  the  frame,  and  though  Etta  Sue  al-  ways  meant  to  have  another  one  cut,  Little  Thomas  wouldn't  sit  still  a  second  time.  My  mother  shook  her  head.  She  said  that  she  supposed  the  silhouette  cutter's  self-portrait  was  sort  of  like  Alfred  Hitchcock's  including  himself  in  his  own  films,  though  that  wasn't  a  good  comparison,  because  Etta  Sue  had  hung  it  up,  not  the  man  himself.  When  Etta  Sue  was  forced  to  move  out  of  her  house  and  into  the  Twentieth  Street  apartment  after  Thomas,  Sr.,'s  death,  she  had  to  discard  many  things,.  The  furniture  my  mother  could  under  stand,  but  parting  with  so  many  personal  possessions  had  seemed  to  her  a  mistake.  When  the  ribbon  with  the  framed  sil-  houettes  went  into  the  trash,  my  mother  grabbed  it  out  and  said  she  would  keep  it  for  Etta  Sue  until  she  felt  better.  And  Etta  Sue  had  given  her  the  strangest  look.  First  shocked,  then  sad,  my  mother  thought.  And  in  all  the  years  my  mother  had  the  silhouettes  hung  in  her  bedroom,  Etta  Sue  never  mentioned  them,  although  shedid  eventually  ask  for  Thomas,  Sr.,'s  shaving  mug  back,  and  for  the  framed  picture  of  herself  and  her  husband  taken  at  a  Chinese  restaurant  on  their  first  anniversary.  But  the  point  of  the  story,  my  mother      said,  was  this:  One  weekend  a  few  months  after  Thomas,  Sr.,'s  death,  she  was  taking  care  of  Little  Thomas  and  Lilly,  and  Little  Thomas  had  gone  into  the  bedroom  while  all  the  rest  of  us  were  in  the  back  yard  and  he  had  taken  the  silhouettes  out  of  the  frames  and  cutthe  noses  off.  Then  he  slipped  them  all  back  into  their  frames  and  rehung  them.  It  was  days  before  my  mother  noticed-  everyone  with  his  orher  nose  chopped  off,  plus  Punkin  Puppy,  earless.  She  hurried  right  over  to  Little  Thomas's  school  and  waited  for  him  to  get  out.  He  walked  home,  but  that  day  he  didn't  go  anywhere  before  she  con-  fronted  him.  By  her  own  account,  she  grabbed  the  tip  of  his  nose  and  squeezed  it,  asking  him  how  he  thought  he'd  like  being  without  his  nose.  Then  she  grabbed  his  ears  and  asked  him  if  he  thought  he  might  like  to  spend  the  rest  of  his  life  not  hearing,  too.  She  crouched  and  made  him  look  her  in  the  eye  and  tell  her  why  he'd  done  it.  It  was  amazing  that  someone  didn't  notice  her  making  such  a  scene  and  come  over,  she  said.  Little  Thomas  gasped  when  she  pulled  him  around  and  shook  him  by  his  shoul-  ders,  but  he  never  cried.  He  had  done  it,  he  told  her,  because  the  faces  in  the  frames  were  miniature  black  ghosts,  there  to  haunt  people.  He  disfigured  them  because  they  were  ghost  monsters  with  special  powers  of  sneaking  inside  people.  If  he  got  rid  of  the  black  ghosts,  cut  them  up  a  little,  they  would  become  white  ghosts,  with  no  special  power.  My  mother  was  so  horrified  she  couldn't  stand.  He  had  given  a  quite  specific,  terribly  upsetting  answer,  and  she  had  no  idea  what  response  to  make,  because  if  he  really  thought  those  things  he  was  mad.  That  would  make  it  the  first  incidence  of  real  madness  in  the  family.  Shewas  ninety-  w-re~  per-cent  sure  he  was  tell-  ing  her  what  he  really  believed,  but  she  also  thought  there  was  some  small  chance  he  might  be  having  her  on.  She  stayed  there  quite  a  while,  weak  in  the  knees,  staring  into  his  face,  looking  for  more  information.  &quot;You  think  I'd  care  if  I  didn't  have  a  nose?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  wouldn't  care  ifI  didn't  have  a  nose  or  a  mouth  or  eyes.I  wish  the  sperm  had  never  gone  into  the  egg.  I  wouldn't  mind  if  there  was  no  me,  and  you  wouldn't,  either.&quot;  My  mother  remembered  being  sur-  prised  that  he  knew  about  sex-that  he  knew  such  words  as  &quot;sperm&quot;  and  &quot;egg.&quot;  She  didn't  remember  what  she  said  to  him  next,  but  it  had  something  to  do  with  how  she  understood  that  he  was  very  upset  that  his  father  was  dead  and  had  disappeared,  but  that  he  mustn't  confuse  that  with  thinking.  Little  Thomas  broke  away  from  her.  &quot;You  stupid  fool,&quot;  he  said.  She  re-  membered  that  distinctly:  &quot;You  stupid  fool.&quot;  After  Little  Thomas's  father's  death,  my  mother  now  suddenly  reminded  me,  someone  courted  Etta  Sue  for  a  bit,  but  eventually  faded  away.  In  retrospect,  my  mother  said,  she  thought  it  might  quite  possibly  have  been  (&quot;Now,  don't  laugh,&quot;  she  said)  the  milkman.  Because,  come  to  think  of  it,  why  else-unless  she  was  a  little  embarrassed-would  Etta  Sue  refuseto  let  anyone  in  the  family  know  whom  she  was  seeing?  Also,  Nat  the  Milkman  had  been  a  Sunday  painter,  so  perhaps  he  had  also  cut  silhouettes.  &quot;Say  nothing  of  this  to  Zalla,&quot;  my  mother  said.  It  was  something  she  had  begun  to  say  increasingly,  as  an  after-  thought,  in  recent  years-or  perhaps  as  an  end  to  each  of  her  stories,  not  as  an  afterthought,  really.  I  kissed  her  cheek  and  gave  her  hand  asqueeze,  turning  off  her  bedside  lamp  with  my  free  hand.  It  was  early  evening  and  dark.  We  were  in  autumn,  the  sea-  son  when  Thomas,  Sr.,  had  slipped  from  high  atop  the  mounded  hay-slipped  in  slow  motion,  compared  to  the  way  his  [REDACTED]  Pete  hadbeen  struck  by  lightning.  That  was  the  past.  I  imagined  the  fu-  ture:  the  graffiti  figures  that  had  already  disappeared  in  the  downstairs  hallway,  whited  out  by  a  paint  roller.  Then  I  thought  about  the  hospitalin  Belize,  to  which  for  all  intents  and  purposes  that  paint  roller  could  travel  like  a  comet,  to  whiten  the  drywall  that  had  at  long  last  been  installed  in  the  corridors  of  the  new  hospital.  Zalla  would  be  standing  there,  her  starched  white  nurse's  uniform  con-  trasting  with  her  dark  skin,  and  in  a  blink  my  mother  would  be  dead,  quite  unexpectedly-gone  from  her  white-  sheeted  bed  to  the  darkness,  as  Zalla  paused  in  her  busy  day  to  remember  us,  a  nice  American  family.  \xc2\xa2  "