THE  first  annual  meeting  of  the  Stalin's  Doubles  (Ret.)  Asso-  ciation  took  place  in  the  banquet  chamber  of  the  Great  Hall  of  the  Unions,  [REDACTED],  in  the  autumn  of  1953.  An  historic  occasion.  Columns  of  porphyry  and  marble  flanked  the  din-  ing  space.  An  electric  chandelier  be-  stowed  its  myriad  lights.  The  long,  burnished  table  was  set  with  gilt-rimmed  crystal  glasses,  stiff  napkins  mono-  grammed  with  the  hammer  and  sickle,  and  silver  caviar  dishes.  And,  of  course,  occupying  one  entire  wall,  looming  over  us,  a  larger-than-life  full-length  portrait  of  Him.  Since  He  had  passed  away  only  a  few  months  earlier,  this  was  the  first  opportunity  we  had  had  to  meet  one  another  in  a  social  setting.  Some  of  us,  who  had  worked  in  the  more  isolated  regions  of  the  country,  had  never  encountered  another  Stalin  before,  and  indeed  it  was  not  rare  for  an  individual  to  believe  he  was  the  unique  specimen  in  existence  (apart  from  the  original,  that  is).  It  should  be  stressed  that  we  were  not  literally  identical  in  appearance.  After  all,  His  image  was  known  only  through  idealized  portraits  and  touched-  up  photographs,  plus  the  occasional  blurry  news  film,  so  no  one  expected  a  Stalin  in  person  to  resemble  the  iconic  version  too  exactly.  Besides,  several  of  us  had  already  shaved  off  the  mustache  and  restyled  the  hair.  To  take  an  extreme  example,  the  lone  woman  present  (Stalin  XXVII;  real  name  Olga  Kirov,  from  Vladivostok)  would  scarcely  havebeen  recog-  nizable  as  a  former  look-alike  at  all,  now  that  she  had  un-  gummed  her  mustache  and  gone  in  for  a  blond  perm,  were  it  not  for  a  certain  squareness  about  the  jawand  coldness  in  the  eyes.  General  conversation,  first.  We  mingled.  We  did  our  best  to  work  out  who  was  who,and  what  aspect  of  His  life  (military,  agricultural,  penologi-  cal,  etc.)  we  had  each  been  involved  in.  Fortunately  a  course  in  mnemonic  techniques  had  been  an  integral  partof  our  training-it  is  vital  for  a  double  to  know  whom  to  shake  hands  with,  whom  to  salute,  whom  to  kiss  on  both  cheeks,  whom  to  stride  by  without  a  glance-so  we  were  able  to  link  names  to  faces  without  too  much  difficulty.     Amazing  little  coincidences  kept  com-  ing  to  light:  for  example,  Stalin  XI  had  addressed  a  conference  of  five-year-  plan-surpassing  peasants  in  Tselino-  grad  at  precisely  the  same  moment  as  Stalin  III  had  favored  a  similar  gath-  ering  with  his  presence  in  Semipalatinsk!  Time  to  take  our  places  around  the  long  mahogany  table.  The  organizer  of  the  event,  Stalin  IV  (real  name  Moshe  Segal,  from  Vitebsk),  gave  a  short  speech.  He  was,  it  turned  out,  the  only  one  among  us  still  employed  in  the  old  profession.  He  assured  us  he  was  kept  busy  posing  for  deathbed  scenes,  and  what  with  the  motherland  being  perpetually  threatened  by  impe-  rialists  and  traitors,  and  given  that  the  succession  was  disputed  between  Malen-  kov  and  Khrushchev,  he  had  every  expectation  that  the  demand  for  busts,  dioramas,  and  so  forth  would  remain  strong  for  some  years  to  come.  While  his  present  work  (he  conceded)  could  scarcely  be  compared  with  the  thrill  of  standing  in  for  the  live  Leader,  he  felt  honored  to  have  been  and  to  continue  to  be  of  service,  and  he  was  confident  we  all  shared  in  this  emotion.  (4p-  plause.)  It  was  the  logic  of  history  that  had  brought  Stalin  to  theforefront  and  it  was  the  logic  of  history  that  de-  manded  Stalin  should  have  doubles.  (Loud  cheers  and  unanimous  cries  of  affirmation.)  We  rose  to  our  feet.  Vodka  was  distributed;  the  carafes  were  passed  always  to  the  left.  Glasses  were  raised.  &quot;Comrades.  To  Him!&quot;  The  toast  was  drunk;  then,  as  one  man,  we  hurled  the  crystal  over  our  shoulders,  and  it  smashed  against  the  walls  and  the  pillars  and  littered  the  floor  with  iridescent  shards.  Now  we  were  more  at  ease.  Each  of  us  in  turn  narrated:  My  Most  Memorable  Experience.  The  Stalin  voice  (a  raspy  Georgian  accent)  was  employed  by  some,  while  others  preferred  to  use  their  everyday  voices.  And  in  any  case  certain  doubles  had  been  purely  visual,  such  as  Stalin  XVI  (real  name  Rahim  Muhamadov,  from  Baku),  a  simple  soul,  who  knew  just  a  few  words  of  Russian:  Hello.  Com-  rade.  Thank  you.  In  many  cases  the  reminiscences  were  touching.  Stalin  V  had  visited  a  military  hospital  in  the  aftermath  of  the  siege  of  Leningrad:  wounded  soldiers  had  cheered  him  to  SEPTEMBER  21,  1992  high  heaven;  there  had  been  tears  in  his  eyes.  Others  partook  of  the  comic.  Stalin  XXI  had  been  patting  a  baby  in  a  collective-farm  kindergarten  near  Krasnoyarsk  when  the  baby  had  turned  and  bit  him  on  the  webby  part  of  his  hand  between  index  finger  and  thumb.  He  hadhad  to  restrain  himself  from  crying  out,  lest  an  overzealous  body-  guard  dispose  of  the  baby  and  its  fam-  ily.  Still  others  shed  a  novel  light  on  Him.  Few  people  know,  for  instance,  that  throughout  the  Potsdam  Confer-  ence  He  suffered  from  a  painful  boil  on  His  back  (so  Stalin  IX  informed  us),  or  that  (according  to  Stalin  XXII)  He  sometimes  chewed  His  toothbrush.  A  handful  of  Stalins  seemed  to  misun-  derstand  the  point  of  sharing  these  testimonies.  Stalin  XV  sang  a  little  song  about  thebeauties  of  the  birch  forest.  Stalin  XXX  told  us  how  much  he  loved  his  wife.  Then  the  organizer  recited:  &quot;Ode  to  Iosif  Vissarionovich  Dzhugashvili.&quot;  More  toasts  were  drunk:  &quot;'To  the  Party!&quot;  &quot;To  Malenkov!  &quot;To  Khrushchev!&quot;  &quot;To  History!&quot;  The  caviar  was  eaten.  Georgian  champagne  fizzed  eloquently.  A  simple  but  satisfying  meal  appeared  on  the  table  and  was  consumed.  And  at  the  end  the  organizer  stood  up  and  declared  that  though  originally  this  meeting  had  been  planned  as  a  one-time  event,  since  it  had  been  such  a  roaring  success,  why  should  we  not  come  back  the  following  year,  and  the  year  after  that,  and  so  on  ad  infi-  nitum?  (Resounding  applause.)  &quot;His  spirit  lives  on!&quot;  Some  of  the  Stalins  who  hailed  from  the  more  distant  republics  suggested  that  the  next  session  should  convene  outside  [REDACTED].  The  point  was  well  taken.  Where,  then?  Stalingrad  was  mooted,  as  symbolically  appropriate.  Also  proposed  were  Stalinsk  and  Stalino.  However,  the  three  locations  that  seemed  to  command  the  widest  support  were  the  cities  known  subsequently  as  Brasov,  Varna,  and  Donetsk,  but  named  at  that  time,  respectively,  Stalin,Stalin,  and  Stalin.  After  much  discussion,  it  was  agreed  that  we  should  reconvene  the  following  year  in  Stalin.  THE  1954meeting  was  on  a  smaller  and  in  some  ways  more  intimate  scale  than  the  previous  year's.  The  table  was  round.  A  plaster  bust  of  Him  was  arranged  as  a  centerpiece  on  a  bed  of  dried  ferns  and  thorny  foliage.  Hardly  THE  NEW  YORKER  so  many  doubles  showed  up,  since  the  travel  distance  was  prohibitive  for  some,  and  others  had  more  pressing  engage-  ments.  As  for  those  who  did  come,  their  resemblance  to  the  original  had  decreased,  partly  owing  to  the  aging  process  (Stalin  XIV  had  developed  alarming  jowls,  and  Stalin  XIX  was  halfway  bald)  and  partly  to  changes  in  masculine  fashions.  But  such  things  are  only  to  be  expected:  if  Stalin  Him-  self  were  alive  today,  He  would  not  be  so  very  much  like  Stalin.  The  usual  toasts  were  drunk:  &quot;To  the  Party!&quot;  &quot;To  Khrushchev  &quot;To  Malenkov!&quot;  &quot;To  Stalin®''  &quot;To  His-  tory!&quot;  The  lumpfish  caviar  was  much  appreciated.  The  white  wine  was  poured  into  elegant,  slender  glasses.  For  all  the  air  of  bonhomie,  however,  the  meeting  was  not  going  with  quite  the  swing  of  the  previous  year's-it  is  always  a  mistake,  arguably,  to  try  to  repeat  past  successes-until  Stalin  XII  (real  name  Sergei  Balin,  from  Mos-  cow),  currently  employed  as  a  tele-  phonist  at  the  Institute  for  Agronomical  Development,  revealed  the  outcome  of  his  researches.  He  explained  he  had  been  working  on  a  hunch  that  Stalin  surely  could  not  havebeen  the  only  statesman  to  have  possessed  doubles:  he  had  been  undertaking  an  investiga-  tion  to  contact  the  stand-ins  for  other  world  leaders.  We  held  our  breath.  We  glanced  toward  the  swinging  doors:  two  butlers  stood  on  duty  with  grenades  in  hand.  At  any  moment,  we  fantasized,  a  score  of  Churchills  and  Roosevelts  could  march  in,  re-creating  the  Yalta  Con-  ference  many  times  over.  Or  might  there  still  be  some  surviving  Lenins-  even  a  handful  of  mock  Trotskys  hik-  ing  in  from  [REDACTED]?  Balin  held  up  his  hand.  He  regret,  ted  that,  for  all  his  diligence,  he  had  beenunable  to  find  evidence  of  visual  doubles,  but-and  here  he  switched  on  a  loudspeaker  system  connected  to  the  international  switchboard-he  had  on  the  line  a  certain  Norman  Jones  from  [REDACTED].  Jones  came  over  loud  and  clear  for  the  most  part-just  a  little  crackly  sometimes,  and  accompanied  by  a  strange,  watery  echo.  He  greeted  us  in  Russian  and  then  announced  that  he  had  been  a  Churchill  inhis  time.  Nothing  too  grand,  mind  you-he  just  used  to  read  speeches  on  the  wireless,  and  record  orations  previously  given  by  the  real  Prime  Minister,  for  sub-  I  NoT  AS  WELL  OFF  AS  GUR  PARENTS  WERE  m».  BT  OUR  AGE  sequent  retransmission  to  the  United  [REDACTED]  and  the  colonies.  He  delighted  us  with  a  medley  ofhis  all-time  favor-  ites:  &quot;Blood,  toil,  tears,  and  sweat,&quot;  &quot;Some  chicken.  Some  neck,&quot;  &quot;We  shall  fight  on  the  beaches,&quot;  and  so  forth.  His  &quot;An  iron  curtain  has  descended  across  the  Continent&quot;  was  perhaps  not  alto-  gether  in  the  best  of  taste.  .  .  .  But  even  those  of  us  who  could  not  understand  English  were  duly  impressed  by  Jones'  immaculate  growl  and  lisp,  and  his  virtuoso  imitation  of  the  sucking  of  saliva  through  false  teeth.  And  what  about  the  American?  Surely  Roosevelt,  that  poor  invalid,  must  have  sent  in  stuntmen  to  cope  with  his  more  pressing  engagements?  But  apparently  not.  At  least  no  deutero-Roosevelt  had  so  far  come  to  light.  Besides,  as  Stalin  VIII  (real  name  Boris  Backey,  from  Kiev)  pointed  out,  if  Roosevelt  had  possessed  a  double,  the  President  would  never  have  been  permitted  to  &quot;die&quot;  at  such  an  inconvenient  moment  in  1945-the  double  would  have  stood  in  until  the  conclusion  of  the  war,  at  least.  At  this  suggestion,  the  same  thought  ran  through  all  our  heads:  why  did  He  have  todie?  Surely  any  one  of  us  in  this  room  could  have  done  a  pass-  able  job  as  Chairman  of  the  Party  and  Leader  of  the  State.  We  could  have  carried  on  the  torch.  Why,  in-  deed,  need  He  ever  die?  New  gen-     ae  erations  of  doubles  could  be  selected  and  trained-rendering  Him  virtually  immortal.  The  connection  from  England  had  been  cut,  and  the  wine  had  run  out.  It  was  time  for  us  all  to  go  home.  HE  third  meeting  took  place  in  a  back  room  in  the  regional  Party  headquarters  at  Stalin  (not  the  same  Stalin  as  the  previous  year's  location)  in  October  of  1955.  Perhaps  it  had  been  poorly  advertised,  or  there  were  difficulties  with  the  hotel  reservations,  for  only  a  dozen  or  fifteen  doubles  showed  up.  A  color  reproduction  of  Stalin  was  framed  on  the  wall  above  the  samovar.  In  some  ways,  you  could  say,  this  was  a  more  friendly,  a  more  confidential  occasion.  The  toasts  were  repeated  several  times(&quot;&quot;To  the  Party!&quot;  &quot;To  Krushchev!&quot;'  &quot;To  Stalin®'  &quot;To  History').  Caviar  was  not  available  this  year,  but  the  borscht  was  excep-  tional.  Some  of  the  more  jovial,  not  to  say  rowdy,  Stalins  participated  in  an  informal  competition  to  imitate  His  facial  expressions-the  generous  smile,  the  air  of  concern  at  the  fate  of  His  people,  the  jolly-worker-just-like-you  chuckle,  the  grim  glare.  The  prize,  supplied  by  Stalin  XIII,  was  a  cut-  throat  razor  still  clotted  with  soap  and  a  few  bristles  from  His  chin.  It  was  won  by  Stalin  XV,  largely  on  the  strength  of  the  almost  frightening  verisimilitude  of  his  stern  stare-into-  the-middle-distance.  Stalin  XXII  (real  name  Iosif  Za-  harudov,  from  Ulan  Bator)  stood  up  and  cleared  his  throat.  He  declared  he  felt  called  upon  to  saya  few  words  lamenting  the  comparative  lack  of  interest  in  Stalin  among  the  youth  of  today.  For  instance,  the  heroic  acts  He  performed  in  His  childhood  (combat-  ting  the  hoarder,  foiling  the  incipient  capitalist,  denouncing  the  spy)  are  no  longer  taught  to  schoolchildren  as  paradigms  of  socialist  behavior.  Al-  though  the  spirit  of  this  contribution  was  in  accord  with  our  general  think-  ing,  it  was  felt  by  many  of  us  that  it  was  perhaps  too  serious,  too  melan-  choly  even,  for  what  was,  after  all,  supposed  to  be  a  festive  occasion.  We  departed  early.  HE  1956  session  was  the  last.  We  all  knew  that.  Originally,  it  had  been  scheduled  for  September  in  a  police  barracks  in  one  of  the  cities  called  Stalin,  but  the  city  had  changed  its  name  the  previous  month-a  bad  omen,  surely-and,  besides,  the  pro-  spective  attendance  was  down.  So  on  a  wintry  October  evening  we  came,  less  than  ten  of  us,  up  the  three  flights  of  stairs  and  along  the  narrow  corridor  into  the  cramped  living  room  of  Stalin  IV's  apartment  in  a  [REDACTED]  suburb.  We  sat  on  the  acid-green  sofa  and  on  rickety  kitchen  chairs;  a  few  latecomers  had  to  slump  on  the  rug.  A  black-and-white  photograph  of  Stalin  was  stapled  to  the  side  of  the  book-  case.  What  had  happened  was  thatin  February  Khrushchev  had  denounced  Stalin's  &quot;crimes&quot;  in  the  course  of  a  long,  fiery  speech  at  a  closed  ses-  sion  of  the  Twentieth  Party  Congress.  To  be  sure,  this  speech  had  offi-  cially  remained  secret,  but  everybody  knew.  No  one  wanted  to  be  the  first  to  break  the  silence.  Eventually  Stalin  IV,  who  had  arranged  the  first  triumphal  meet-  ing  of  our  association  three  years  ear-  lier,  mumbled,  &quot;I  never  said  He  was  perfect.&quot;  And  we  all  agreed  that  every-  body  is  human,  and  mistakes  will  happen,  and  no  doubt  even  He  made  the  occasional  error  of  judgment.  Stalin  XII  recalled  that  he  had  delivered  a  fiery  speech  in  court  de-  nouncing  Sirin  as  a  Trotskyite  agent,  and  probably  Sirin  was  innocent  after  all.  Well,  it  is  easy  to  be  wise  in  retrospect.  And  each  of  us  had  similar  anec-  dotes.  Stalin  VI  had  played  his  part  in  several  show  trials  of  officers  in  the  vicinity  of  Vladivostok  in  1937-38,  knowing  full  well  they  could  not  &amp;/Z  havebeen  Japanese  spies,  monar-  chists,  sodomites,  and  so  forth.  Stalin  XXX,  who  had  told  us  three  years  before  how  much  he  loved  his  wife,  had  had  to  denounce  his  father-  in-law.  Stalin  XVII  had  even  been  responsible  for  the  arrest  of  another  double  (Stalin  XVIII  [deceased])  as  a  Zino-  vievite  deviationist.  In  fact,  not  one  of  us  couldclaim  to  have  doubled  for  only  the  better  side  of  Stalin's  personality.  We  all  were  tainted.  But  it  is  not  as  if  (we  argued)  we  were  individually  responsible.  Doubtless,  had  we  been  acting  in  propriis  personis,  we  would  not  have  dreamed  of  behaving  so  brutally,  but  we  had  simply  been  doing  what  Stalin  Himself  would  have  done,  had  He  been  able  to  spare  the  time.  But  was  that  really  the  whole  story?  Stalin  VI  recalled  how  several  times,  when  he  had  been  given  only  the  vaguest  instructions-for  example,  to  attend  a  show  trial  and  give  the  usual  kind  of  testimony-hehad  fulminated  viciously  against  the  defendant,  whereas,  in  fact,  a  milder  reproof  might  well  have  been  acceptable.  And  each  of  us  could  think  of  similar  instances  from  his  own  experience.  Indeed,  looking  back,  we  realized  we  had  been  given  quite  a  free  hand  in  the  construction  of  the  role,  and  possibly  we  had  ex-  aggerated  the  bloodthirstiness.  In  fact,  on  reflection,  we  doubles  had  been  responsible  for  a  number  of  the  more  tragic  aspects  ofthat  sorry  era.  It  might  havebeen  that  Stalin  Himself  was  reasonably  gentle.  If  only  we  had  not  misunderstood!  The  bottle  of  vodka  had  rolled  under  the  sofa,  so  it  had  to  be  kicked  into  the  open.  Shots  were  poured  into  glasses  and  cups  and  tooth  mugs  and  bowls.  Nobody  felt  like  toasting  Stalin  or  Khrushchev  orthe  Party.  Finally  some-  body  blurted,  &quot;To  History!&quot;  and  we  all  drank  to  that. 