PLAYING  WITH  DYNAMITE  ONE  aspect  of  childhood  Fan-  shawe  had  not  expected  to  return  in  old  age  was  the  mutability  of  things-the  willingness  of  a  chair,  say,  to  become  a  leggy  animal  in  the  corner  of  his  vision,  or  the  sensation  that  the  solid  darkness  ofan  unlit  room  is  teem-  ing  with  inimical  presences.  Headlights  floated  on  the  skin  of  Fanshawe's  wind-  shield  like  cherry  blossoms  on  black  wa-  ter,  whether  signifying  four  motorcycles  or  two  trucks  he  had  no  idea,  and  he  drove  braced,  every  second,  to  crash  into  an  invisible  obstacle.  It  had  taken  him  over  fifty  years  to  internalize  the  physical  laws  that  over-  ruled  a  ten-year-old's  sense  of  nightmare  possibilities-to  overcome  irrational  fear  and  to  make  himself  at  home  in  the  lin-  ear  starkness  of  a  universe  without  a  su-  pernatural.  As  he  felt  the  ineluctable  logic  of  decay  tightening  its  grip  on  his  body,  these  laws  seemed  dispensable;  he  had  used  them,  and  now  was  bored  with  them.  Perhaps  an  object  could  travel  faster  than  the  speed  of  light,  and  we  each  have  an  immortal  soul.  It  didn't,  terribly,  matter.  The  headlines  in  the  pa-  per,  with  their  campaigns  and  pesti-  lences,  seemed  directed  at  somebody  else,  like  the  new  movies  and  television  specials  and  pennant  races  and  beer  commercials-somebody  younger  and  more  easily  excited,  somebody  for  whom  the  world  still  had  weight.  Living  now  in  death's  immediate  neighborhood,  he  was  developing  a  soldier's  jaunty  indifference;  if  the  bathtub  in  thecorner  of  his  eye  as  he  shaved  were  to  take  on  the  form  of  a  polar  bear  and  start  mauling  him,  it  wouldn't  be  the  end  of  theworld.  Even  the  end  of  the  world,  strange  to  say,  wouldn't  be  the  end  of  theworld.  His  wife  was  younger  than  he,  and  spryer.  Frequently,  she  impatiently  passed  him  on  the  stairs.  One  Sunday  afternoon,  when  they  were  going  down-  stairs  to  greet  some  guests,  he  felt  her  at  his  side  like  a  little  gust  of  wind,  and  then  saw  her,  amazingly  reduced  in  size,  kneeling  on  the  stairs,  which  were  thickly  carpeted,  several  steps  below  by  John  Updike  him.  He  called  her  name,  and  thought  of  reaching  down  to  restrain  her,  but  she,  having  groped  for  a  baluster  and  missed,  rapidly  continued  on  her  way,  sledding  on  her  shins  all  the  way  to  the  bottom,  where  she  reclined  at  the  feet  of  their  astonished  visitors,  who  had  knocked  and  entered.  &quot;She's  all  right,&quot;  Fanshawe  assured  them,  descending  at  his  more  stately  pace,  for  he  knew,  watching  her  surprising  descent,  that  she  had  met  no  bone-breaking  snag  in  her  progress.  And,  indeed,  she  did  rise  up  as  resil-  iently  as  a  cartoon  cat,  brimming  with  girlish  embarrassment,  though  secretly  pleased,  he  could  tell,  with  having  so  spontaneously  provided  their  little  party  a  lively  initial  topic  of  discussion.  Their  guests,  who  included  a  young  doctor,  set  her  upon  the  sofa,  with  a  bag  of  ice  on  the  more  bruised  and  abraded  of  her  shins,  and  conducted  a  conversational  investigation  that  concluded  she  had  caught  her  heel  in  the  hem  of  her  dress,  unusually  long,  in  the  new  fashion.  A  little  rip  in  the  stitching  of  the  hem  seemed  to  confirm  the  analysis  and  to  remove  all  mystery  from  the  event.  Yet  later,  after  she  had  limped  into  bed  beside  her  husband,  she  asked,  &quot;Wasn't  I  good,  not  to  tell  everybody  how  you  pushed  [REDACTED];  &quot;I  never  touched  you,&quot;  Fanshawe  pro-  tested,  but  without  much  passion,  because  he  was  not  entirely  sure.  He  remembered  only  her  appearance,  oddly  shrunk  by  perspective  on  the  stairs  in  their  downward  linearrecession,  and  the  flash  of  his  synapses  that  pictured  his  reaching  out  and  restraining  her,  and  his  dreamlike  inability  to  do  so.  She  blamed  him,  he  knew,  for  not  havingcaught  her,  for  nothaving  done  the  impossible,  and  this  was  as  good  as  his  pushing  her.  She  was,  in  their  old  age,  a  late-blooming  feminist,  andhe  accepted  his  role  in  her  mind  as  the  murderous  man  with  whom  she  happened  to  be  stuck,  in  a  world  of  murderous  men.  The  forces  that  had  once  driven  them  together  now  seemed  to  her  all  the  product  of  a  male  con-  spiracy.  If  he  had  not  literally  pushed  her  on  the  stairs,  he  had  compelled  her  to  live  in  a  house  with  a  grandiose  stairway  and  had  dictated,  in  collusion  with  male  fashion  designers,  the  dangerous  length  of  her  skirt  and  height  of  her  heels;  and  this  was  as  good  as  a  push.  He  tried  to  recall  his  emotions  as  he  watched  her  body  cascade  out  of  his  reach,  and  came  up  with  a  cool  pang  of  what  might  be  called  polite  astonishment,  underneath  a  high  hum  of  constant  grief,  like  the  cos-  mic  background  radiation.  He  recalled  a  view  of  a  town's  rooftops  covered  in  snow,  beneath  a  dome  of  utterly  emptied  blue  sky.  His  wife  relented,  seeing  him  so  docilely  ready  to  internalize  her  proposi-  tion.  &quot;Sweetie,  you  didn't  push  me,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;But  I  did  think  you  might  have  caught  me.&quot;  &quot;It  was  all  too  quick,&quot;  he  said,  unconvinced  by  his  own  self-defense.  With  the  reality  of  natural  law  had  re-  ceded  any  conviction  of  his  own  virtue.  Their  gueststhat  afternoon  had  included  his  wife's  daughter,  by  an  old  and  almost  mythical  marriage.  He  could  scarcely  distinguish  his  stepchildren  from  his  children  by  his  own  former  marriage,  or  tell  kin  from  spouses.  He  was  polite  to  all  these  tan,  bouncy,  smooth-skinned,  sure-footed,  well-dressed  young  adults-  darlings  of  the  advertisers,  the  now  gen-  eration-who  claimed  to  be  related  to  him,  andhe  was  flattered  by  their  man-  nerly  attentions,  but  he  secretly  doubted  the  reality  of  the  connection.  His  own  mother,  some  years  ago,  had  lain  dead  for  two  days  at  the  bottom  of  the  cellar  stairs  of  a  house  where  he  had  allowed  her  to  live  alone,  feeble  and  senile.  He  was  an  unnatural  son  and  father  both,  why  not  a  murderous  husband?  He  knew  that  the  incident  would  live  in  his  wife's  head  as  if  he  had  in  fact  pushed  her,  and  thus  he  might  as  well  remember  it  also,  for  the  sake  of  marital  harmony.  A  the  Central  Park  Zoo,  the  yellow-  white  polarbears  eerily  float  in  the  cold  water  behind  the  plate  glass,  water  the  blue-green  color  on  a  pack  of  Kool  cigarettes  (the  last  cigarettes  Fan-  shawe  had  smoked,  thinking  the  men-  thol  possibly  medicinal),  and  if  a  polar  bear,  dripping  wet,  were  to  surface  up  through  his  bathtub  tomorrow  morning  while  he  shaved,the  fatal  swat  of  thebig  clawed  paw  would  feel  like  a  cloud  of  pollen.  Things  used  to  be  more  substantial.  In  those  middle  years,  as  Fanshawe  gropingly  recalled  them,  you  are  ham-  mering  out  your  destiny  on  bodies  still  molten  and  glowing.  One  day,  he  had  taken  his  children  ice-skating  on  a  fro-  zen  river-its  winding  course  miracu-  lously  become  a  road,  hard  as  steel,  hiss,  ing  beneath  their  steel  edges.  As  he  stood  talking  to  the  mother  of  some  other  young  children,  his  six-year-old  son  had  fallen  at  his  feet,  without  a  cry  or  thump,  simply  melting  out  of  the  lower  edge  of  Fanshawe's  vision,  which  was  fastened  on  the  reddened  cheeks  and  shining  eyes,  the  perfect  teeth  and  flirtatiously  curved  lips  of  Lorna  Kra-  mer,  his  fellow-parent.  A  noise  softly  bubbled  up  through  the  cracks  in  their  conversation;  the  little  body  on  the  ice  was  whimpering,  and  when  Fanshawe  impatiently  directed  his  son  to  shut  up  and  to  get  up,  the  muffled  words  &quot;I  can't&quot;  rose  as  if  from  beneath  the  ice.  It  developed  that  the  boy's  leg  was  broken.  Just  standing  there  complaining  about  the  cold,  he  had  lost  his  balance  with  his  skate  caught  in  a  crack,  and  twisted  his  shinbone  to  the  point  of  fracture.  How  soft  and  slender  our  growing  skeletons  are!  Fanshawe,  once  his  wife  and  the  other  woman  and  their  clustering  children  had  made  the  problem  clear  to  him,  carried  the  boy  in  his  arms  up  the  steep  and  snowy  riverbank.  He  felt  magnifi-  cent,  doing  so.  This  was  real  life,  he  remembered  feeling-the  idyllic  Sunday  afternoon  suddenly  crossed  by  disaster's  shadow,  the  gentle  and  strenuous  rescue,  the  ride  to  the  hospital,  the  emergency-room  for-  malities,  the  arrival  of  the  jolly  or-  thopedic  surgeon  in  his  parka  and  Ski-Doo  boots,  the  laying  on  of  the  cast  in  warm  plaster  strips,  the  dry-  ing  tears,  the  imminent  healing.  Children  offer  access  to  the  tragic,  to  the  great  dark  that  stands  outside  our  windows,  and  in  the  urgency  of  their  needs  bestow  significance;  their  fragile  lives  veer  toward  the  dangerous  margins  and  measure  the  breadth  be-  yond  the  narrow  path  we  have  learned  to  tread.  &quot;It  wouldn't  have  happened,  of  course,&quot;  his  first  wife  said,  &quot;if  youhad  been  paying  attention  to  him  instead  of  to  Lorna.&quot;  &quot;What  does  Lorna  have  to  do  with  it?  She  was  the  first  one  to  realize  that  the  poor  kidwasn't  kidding.&quot;  &quot;Lorna  has  everything  to  do  with  it,  as  you  perfectly  well  know.&quot;  &quot;This  is  paranoid  talk,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;This  is  Nixon-era  paranoid  talk.&quot;  &quot;I've  gotten  used  to  your  hurting  me,  but  I'm  not  going  to  have  you  hurting  our  children,  Geoff.&quot;  &quot;Now  we're  getting  really  crazy.&quot;  &quot;Don't  you  think  I  know  why  you  de-  cided  to  take  us  all  ice-skating,  when  poor  Timmy  and  Rose  don't  even  have  skates  that  fit?  It  was  so  unlike  you-you  usually  just  want  to  laze  around  read-  ingthe  Times  and  complaining  about  your  hangover  and  watching  'Wide  World  of  Golf  It  was  to  see  her.  Her  or  somebody  else.  That  whole  party  crowd,  you  don't  get  enough  of  them  Saturday  nights  anymore.  Why  don't  yougo  live  with  them?  Live  with  some-  I  137  body  else,  anybody  except  me!  Go.  Go!&quot;  She  didn't  mean  it,  but  it  was  thrill-  ing  to  see  her  so  energized,  such  a  fury,  her  eyes  flashing,  her  hair  crackling,  her  slicing  gestures  carving  large  doomed  territories  out  of  the  air.  At  that  age,  Fanshawe  saw  now,  we  are  creating  selves,  potent  and  plastic,  making  and  un-  making  homes,  the  world  in  our  hands.  We  are  playing  with  dynamite.  All  around  them,  as  heand  his  wife  stood  hip-deep  in  children,  marriages  blew  up.  Marriage  counsellors,  child  psychiatrists,  lawyers,  real-estate  agents  prospered  in  the  ruins.  Now,  in  old  age,  it  remained  only  to  generate  a  little  business  for  the  mortician,  and  an  hour's  pleasant  work  for  the  local  clergyman.  Just  as  insurance  salesmen  had  at  last  stopped  approach-  ing  him,  and  the  moviemakers  had  writ-  ten  him  out  of  audience  demographics,  so  the  armies  of  naturallaw,  needed  all  over  the  globe  to  detonate  dynamite  where  it  counted,  left  him  to  wander  in  a  twilight  of  inconsequence.  In  early  August,  a  pair  of  birds  de-  cided  they  had  to  build  a  nest  on  the  Fanshawes'  porch.  They  were  warblers  too  far  north,  if  he  could  trust  his  eyes  and  thebattered  old  bird  book.  Some-  thing  must  have  gone  wrong  with  their  biological  clocks.  It  was  too  late  in  the season  for  nesting,  but,  even  more  willful  than  children,  they  persisted,  while  war-  bling  back  and  forth  furiously,  in  piling  up  twigs  and  wands  of  hay  on  the  small  shelves  created  by  the  capitals  of  his  porch  pillars.  The  twiggy  accumulations  blew  off,  or  Mrs.  Fanshawe  briskly  knocked  them  off  with  a  broom.  She  had  always  been  less  sentimental  than  he.  It  was  her  clean  white  porch  and  her  porch  boards  that  would  be  spattered  with  bird  shit.  But  the  warblers  kept  coming  back,  as  children  keep  demand-  ing  to  go  to  an  amusement  park  or  to  buy  a  certain  kind  of  heavily  advertised  candy,  until  finally,  the  adult  world  wea-  rying,  they  have  their  way.  A  pillar  next  to  the  house  afforded  shelter  enough  from  the  wind;  the  twigs  and  grass  accu-  mulated,  and  from  its  precarious  pile  the  stone-colored  head  of  the  female  bird  haughtily  stared  down  one  afternoon  when  the  Fanshawes  returned  from  a  day  in  town  shopping.  The  warbling  ceased.  The  male  had  vanished.  Then,  after  two  weeks,  the  female,  it  dawned  on  the  Fanshawes,  had  vanished.  Van-  ished  without  a  warble  of  goodbye.  All  the  time  she  had  been  in  the  nest,  her  profile  had  radiated  anger.  Getting  out  the  stepladder,  Fanshawe  fetched  down  an  empty,  eggless  nest,  its  rim  tidily  circled  round  with  guano,  its  rough  materials  worked  in  the  center  to  a  perfect  expectant  cavity.  A  nest  in  vain.  What  ever  had  those  birds  been  thinking  of?  His  impulse  was  tosave  the  nest-  his  mother  had  always  been  saving  bird's  nests,  setting  them  in  bookshelves,  or  on  top  of  the  piano-but  his  wife  held  out  an  open  garbage  bag,  as  though  the  in-  nocent  wild  artifact  were  teeming  with  germs.  Bird's  nests  shouldn't  go  in  gar-  bage  bags,  he  thought,  but  dropped  it  in.  We're  in  this  together,  he  aimlessly  thought,  as  in  the  shade  of  the  porch  his  wife  stared  up  at  him,with  shining  dark  eyes,  trying  to  control  her  impatience  as  he  wrestled  with  his  sentimental  scruple.  A“  his  fifth  (at  a  guess)  birthday  party,  a  piece  of  cake  mysteriously  vanished  from  the  plate  in  front  of  him  and  reappeared  a  few  seconds  later  in  his  lap.  He  had  never  touched  it,  so  it  must  have  been  a  miracle,  there  in  the  candle-  light  and  childish  babble.  He  could  still  see  it  lying  on  his  corduroy  lap,  the  cake  peeping  out  from  its  inverted  dish-a  chocolate  cake  with  caramel  icing  of  a  type  only  his  mother  had  ever  made  for  him,  its  sugary  stiffness  most  delicious  where  the  icing  between  the  layers  met  the  outside  layer  in  a  thick,  sweet  T.  A  few  years  later,  lying  in  bed  with  a  fever,  he  had  seen  a  black  stick,  at  a  slight  angle,  hop  along  beyond  the  edge  of  the  bed,  like  one  of  the  abstract  sec-  tions  of  &quot;Fantasia.&quot;  Inthose  years,  the  knit  of  the  physical  world  was  stretched  thin,  and  held  a  number  of  holes.  When  he  was  in  the  fourth  grade,  his  new  glasses  vanished  from  his  pocket,  in  their  round-ended  case  with  its  murderous  metallic  szap,  and  a  week  later,  cutting  across  a  weedy  vacant  lot  thinking  of  them  and  of  how  hard  his  father  would  have  to  work  to  buy  him  another  pair,  he  looked  down,  and  there  the  case  was,  like  a  long  egg  in  the  tangled  damp  grass.  Inside  it,  the  glasses  had  become  steamy,  as  if  worn  by  an  overexcited,  myopic  ghost.  Perhaps  this  was  less  a  miracle  than  the  transposed  birthday  cake,  but  the  fact  that  he  had  been  thinking  of  them  at  that  wery  moment  made  it  the  strangest  of  all.  Could  it  be  that  our  mind  does,  secretly,  control  the  atoms?  On  that  possibility,  Fanshawe  had  never  quite  broken  his  childish  habit  of  prayer.  Yet,  staring  at  a  model  air-  plane  that  had  unaccountably  disinte-  grated  during  the  night,  or  confront-  ing  the  bulging  shadows  at  the  head  of  the  stairs,  it  was  hard  to  think  of  God  and  Jesus;  one  seemed  to  be  down  among  frivolous  demons,  in  a  supernatu-  ral  no  more  elevated  in  its  aimsthan  a  Disney  animated  feature.  That  curious  cartoon  lightness  and  jumpiness  had  returned.  Fanshawe  would  find  himself  in  a  room  with  no  knowl-  edge  of  how  he  got  there-as  if  the  film  had  been  broken  and  spliced.  As  he  lay  in  bed,  the  house  throbbed  with  footsteps,  heard  through  the  pillow,  that  fell  silent  when  he  lifted  his  head.  Perhaps  it  had  been  his  heartbeat.  In  the  sedate  neigh-  borhood  where  he  now  lived,  everyone  was  old,  more  or  less.  For  years  he  had  watched  the  neighbor  to  his  right,  a  widower,  slowly  dete-  riorate,  his  stride  be-  PLAYING  WITH  DYNAMITE  coming  a  shuffle,  his  house  and  yard  gradually  growing  shabbier  and  shaggier,  inch  by  inch,  season  by  season,  in  incre-  ments  so  small  that  onlya  speeded-up  film  would  show  the  process.  The  two  men  would  converse  across  thefence  from  time  to  time;  Fanshawe  once  or  twice  offered  to  do  some  pruning  for  his  neighbor.  &quot;No,  thanks,&quot;  would  be  the  answer.  &quot;I'll  get  to  it,  when  I'm  feeling  a  little  more  lively.&quot;  We  look  ahead  and  see  random  rises  and  falls;  the  linear  di-  minishment  so  plain  toothers  is  invisible  to  us.  One  Saturday  morning,  a  fire  engine  appeared  along  his  neighbor's  curb,  though  there  was  no  sign  of  smoke.  The  fireman,  who  had  moved  up  the  front  walk  with  some  haste,  stayed  inside  so  long  that  Fanshawe  grew  tired  of  spying.  An  hour  later,  with  the  fire  engine  still  parked  there,  its  great  throbbing  motor  wastefully  running,  a  small  foreign  con-  vertible  appeared,  and  a  fashionably  dressed  young  woman-all  things  are  relative,  perhaps  she  was  forty-uncoiled  rapidly  outof  the  low-slung  interior,  flashing  her  long  smooth  shins,  and  clicked  up  the  flagstone  walk.  This  was  his  neighbor's  daughter,  who  explained  to  Fanshawe  later,  at  the  party  after  the  funeral,  that  her  father  had  been  found  by  the  cleaning  lady,  sitting  up  in  his  fa-  vorite  chair,  shaved  and  dressed  in  a  coat  and  tie  as  if  expecting  a  caller.  So  that  was  death,  Fanshawe  realized-a  jerky  comedy  of  unusual  comings  and  goings  on  a  Saturday  morning,  followed  in  a  few  days  by  a  funeral  and  a  &quot;For  Sale&quot;  sign  on  the  house.  &quot;Thank  you  for  being  such  a  good  neighbor  to  my  father,&quot;  the  daughter  said.  &quot;He  often  mentioned  it.&quot;  &quot;But  I  wasn't,&quot;  Fanshawe  protested.  &quot;I  never  did  a  thing  for  him.&quot;  Why  had  the  dead  man  benignly  lied?  Why  had  the  cleaning  lady  called  the  fire  department  and  not  the  police?  And  why  had  the  fireman  never  shut  off  his  engine,  discharging  carbon  monox-  ide  and  consuming  fossil  fuelat  taxpayer  expense?  Fanshawe  didn't  ask.  He  often  felt  now,  going  through  the  motions  of  living-shaving,  dressing,  re-  sponding  to  questions,  measuring  up  to  small  emergencies-that  he  was  enact-  ing  a  partin  a  play  at  the  end  of  its  run,  while  mentally  rehearsing  his  lines  in  the  next  play  to  be  put  on.  It  was  repertory  theatre,  evidently.  When  he  remembered  how  death  had  once  loomed  at  him,  so  vivid  and  large  that  it  had  a  dis-  tinct  smell,  like  the  scent  of  chalk  up  close  to  the  schoolroom  blackboard,  he  marvelled,  rather  patronizingly.  When  had  he  ceased  to  fear  death-or,  so  to  say,  to  grasp  it?  The  moment  was  as  clear  in  his  mind  as  a  black-and-white  striped  gate  at  a  border  crossing:  the  moment  when  he  first  slept  with  Lorna  Kramer.  How  inky-black  her  eyes  seemed,  amid  the  snowy  whiteness  of  the  sheets!  There  was  snow  outside,  too,  hushing  the  world  in  sunstruck  brilliance.  Melt-  water  tapped  in  the  aluminum  gutters.  There  had  been  a  feeling  of  coolness,  of  freshly  laundered  sheets,  of  contacts  never  before  achieved,  by  fingertips  icy  with  nervousness.  He  had  peeled  off  her  black  lace  bra-her  back  arched  up  from  the  mattress  to  give  him  access  to  the  catches-almost  reluctantly,  knowing  there  would  be  a  white  flash  that  would  obliterate  everything  that  had  existed  of  his  life  before.  She  had  smiled  encourag-  ingly,  timorously.  They  were  in  it  to-  gether.  Her  teeth  were,  after  all,  less  than  perfect,  with  protuberant  canines  that  made  the  bicuspids  next  to  them  seem  shadowy.  Her  pupils  were  con-  tracted  to  the  size  of  pencil  leads  by  the  relentless  light;  he  had  never  seen  any-  thing  so  clearlyas  he  saw  her  now,  the  fine  mechanism  of  her,  the  specialized  flesh  of  her  lips,  the  trip  wires  of  her  hair;  he  got  out  of  the  bed  to  lower  the  shade,the  sight  of  her  was  such  a  blind-  ing  assault.  A  dull  reddish  bird,  a  female  cardinal,  was  hopping  about  on  the  delicately  tracked-up  snow  beneath  the  bird  feeder  a  story  below,  pecking  at  scattered  seed.  A  whole  blameless  town  of  roofs  and  smoking  chimneys  and  snow-drenched  trees  stretched  beyond,  under  an  over-  turned  bowl  of  blue  light  that  made  Fanshawe's  vision  wince.  He  drew  the  curtain  on  it  and  in  merciful  twilight  re-  turned  to  where  Lorna  lay  still  as  a  stick.  He  heard  his  blood  striding  in  his  skull,  he  felt  so  full  of  life.  Sex  or  death,  you  pick  your  poison.  That  had  been  for-  ever  ago.  She  was  still  younger  and  spryer  than  he,  but  all  things  were  rela-  tive.  He  did  not  envy  those  forever-ago  people,  for  whom  the  world  had  such  a  weight  of  consequence.  Like  the  Ti-  tans,  they  seemed  beautiful  but  sad  in  their  brief  heyday,  transition  figures  between  chaos  and  an  airier  pantheon.  