THE  BLACK  LIGHTS  COMMANDER  Anpy  HAaAwKINS,  ‘  chief  psychiatrist  of  the  neuro-  psych  ward  at  Camp  [REDACTED],  received  the  inevitable  nickname  Eagle-  beak,  or  Eagle,  early  in  his  first  tour  in  [REDACTED]  when  acrazy  Marine  attacked  him  out  of  the  clear  blue  and  bit  off  his  nose.  It  became  a  serious  medical  event  when  Commander  Hawkins  developed  a  resistant  staph  infection  in  his  sinuses,  which  quickly  spread  to  his  brain-a  danger  that  is  always  present  with  face  wounds.  To  complicate  matters,  Haw-  kins  was  allergic  to  the  first  antibiotics  administered  to  him  and  went  into  ana-  phylactic  shock.  When  that  was  finally  controlled,  his  kidneys  shut  down,  and  he  had  to  be  placed  on  dialysis,  as  the  in-  fection  continued  to  run  rampant  through  his  system.  Hawkins  developed  a  raging  fever  and  had  to  be  wrapped  in  ice  blan-  kets  for  two  days,  and  weeks  later,  after  his  kidneys  and  immune  system  kicked  inagain,  he  came  down  with  hepatitis  B  and  nearly  died  from  that.  He  resigned  his  commission,  quit  doctoring  alto-  gether  for  a  time,  and  went  to  the  Men-  ninger  Foundation  in  [REDACTED],  where  he  did  some  work-work  on  himself.  He  wanted  to  regain  some  compassion  for  his  fellow-man  before  trying  to  go  back  into  private  practice,  but  his  dreams  of  a  successful  civilian  career  were  destroyed  by  the  fact  that  he  had  no  nose.  He  wore  a  tin  nose,  complete  with  a  head  strap,  crafted  by  a  566965746e616dese  peasant,  and  it  made  him  an  object  of  ridicule,  led  to  a  divorce  from  his  wife,  and  prompted  him  to  rejoin  the  Navy,  where  it  didn't  really  matter  that  much  what  you  looked  like  if  you  hadenough  rank.  It  mattered  socially-at  the  Officers'  Club  and  so  on-but  not  on  the  job.  Commander  Hawkins  started  out  with  a  plastic  prosthetic  nose,  but  it  was  easily  detectable,  so  he  decided  to  make  the  best  of  a  bad  situation  by  wearing  the  tin  nose  and  being  up  front  about  it.  He  was  always  quick  to  point  out  that  he,  more  than  anyone,  realized  how  ab-  surd  his  condition  was,  and  in  doing  so  by  Thom  Jones  he  attenuated  in  part  the  sniggering  he  was  subjected  to  for  wearing  a  tin  nose.  What  bothered  him  more  was  what  he  imagined  people  said  about  it  in  private.  He  became  a  virtual  paranoid  in  this  regard.  I  was  sent  to  [REDACTED]'s  neuropsych  facility-that  bleak,  austere  nuthouse-  some  weeks  after  defending  my  title  as  the  First  Marine  Division  Middleweight  Champ  in  a  boxing  smoker  at  Camp  Las  Pulgas.  I  lost  on  a  K.O.  My  injuries  resulted  in  a  shocking  loss  of  weight,  headaches,  double  vision,  and  strange,  otherworldly  spells.  EEG  readings  taken  at  the  hospital  indicated  that  I  had  a  le-  sion  on  my  left  temporal  lobe  from  a  punch  to  the  temple  that  had  put  me  out  cold  for  over  an  hour.  I  was  a  boxer  with  over  a  hundred  and  fifty  fights,  and  I  had  taken  a  lot  of  shots,  but  this  last  punch  was  the  hardest  I  had  ever  re-  ceived  and  the  first  punch  ever  to  put  me  down.  I  had  seen  stars  before  from  big  punches;  I  had  seen  pinwheels;  but  after  that  shot  to  the  temple  I  saw  the  worst  thing  you  ever  see  in  boxing-I  saw  the  black  lights.  THERE  I  sat  in  a  corner  of  the  day-  room  on  the  kelly-green  floor  tiles,  dressed  in  a  uniform  of  pajamas  and  bathrobe,  next  to  a  small,  tightly  coiled  catatonic  named  Joe,  who  wore  a  towel  on  his  shoulder.  Here  in  this  cor-  ner-the  most  out-of-the-way  place  in  the  ward-was  one  of  the  few  windows.  Occasionally  a  Marine  would  freak  out  and  bolt  for  the  window,  jump  up  on  the  sill,  shake  the  security  screen,  and  scream  &quot;I  want  to  die!&quot;  or  &quot;I  can't  take  it  anymore,  let  me  out  of  this  mother-  fucker!&quot;  At  these  times  Joe  would  actu-  ally  move  a  little.  By  that  I  mean  he  would  tilt  to  the  left  to  give  the  screamer  a  little  space.  Except  for  me  andone  of  the  corpsmen,  Joe  would  not  let  anyone  touch  him  or  feed  him  or  change  him.  As  I  said,  Joe  wore  a  towel  on  his  shoulder.  He  drooled  constantly,  and  he  would  grunt  in  gratitude  when  I  dabbed  his  mouth  dry.  Joe  gave  off  a  smell.  Schizophrenics  give  off  a  smell,  andyou  get  used  to  it.  Sometimes,  however,  it  would  get  so  bad  that  I  could  swear  I  saw  colors  coming  off  Joe-shades  of  blue,  red,  and  violet-and  to  get  away  from  it  I  would  get  up  and  walk  over  to  the  cigarette  lighter,  a  spiral  electrical  device  much  like  the  cigarette  lighters  in  cars.  The  staff  didn't  trust  us  with  open  flames  or  razor  blades.  Sitting  next  to  Joe,  I  would  chain-  smoke  Camels  until  the  Thorazine  and  phenobarbital  that  Eagle  had  prescribed  to  contain  my  agitated  restlessness  got  to  be  too  much  and  I  fell  into  heavy,  un-  pleasant  dreams,  or  I  had  a  fit  and  woke  up  on  the  tile  with  piss  and  shit  in  my  pants-alone,  neglected,  a  pariah.  The  same  corpsman  who  changed  Joe  would  change  me.  The  others  would  let  you  lie  in  your  filth  until  the  occasional  doctor  or  nurse  came  in  and  demanded  that  they  take  action.  I  was  having  ten  to  twenty  spells  a  day  during  my  first  month,  and  I  was  so  depressed  that  I  refused  to  talk  to  any-  one,  especially  when  some  of  the  fits  marched  into  full-blown  grand-mal  sei-  zures,  which  caused  me  much  shame  and  confusion.  I  refused  to  see  the  bud-  dies  from  my  outfit  who  came  by  to  visit  me,  and  I  did  not  answer  my  mail  or  take  calls  from  my  family.  But  as  I  got  used  to  the  Thorazine  I  began  to  snap  out  of  my  fits  quicker.  I  began  to  shave  and  brush  my  teeth,  and  mingle  with  the  rest  of  the  neuropsych  population.  With  Eagle  as  my  living  example,  I  had  de-  cided  I  would  make  the  best  of  a  bad  situation;  I  would  adjust  to  it  and  get  on  with  my  life.  As  a  rule,  there  were  about  thirty  men  in  our  ward-the  Security  Ward,  where  they  kept  the  craziest,  most  vola-  tile  marines  in  all  of  [REDACTED].  Eagle  seemed  to  regard  me  as  super-volatile,  although  I  was  anything  but  at  the  time.  He  always  kept  me  at  arm's  length,  but  he  would  get  rightin  and  mix  with  really  dangerous,  really  spooky  whacked-out  freaks.  I  figured  he  was  afraid  of  me  be-  cause  of  my  history  as  arecon  ma-  rine  with  three  tours  in  Nam,  or  be-  cause  I  had  been  a  boxer,  But  he  was  a  doctor,  and  his  fear  made  me  wonder  about  myself.  One  day  a  great  big  black  man  named  Gothia  came  into  the  ward.  I  had  been  there  about  two  months,  and  this  was  the  first  new  admission  I  had  witnessed.  He  was  extra  big,  extra  black,  extra  muscular,  and  ex-  tra  crazy.  Gothia  was  into  a  manic  episode  and  talking  fast:  there  was  a  Buick  waiting  outside  with  a  general  in  it,  and  he  and  Gothia  were  going  to  fly  off  to  the  [REDACTED],  where  the  Pope  urgently  awaited  Gothia's  ex-  pertise  concerning  the  impending  apocalypse.  He  kept  repeating,  &quot;It's  going  to  come  like  a  thief  in  the  night-a  thief  in  the  night!&quot;  until  he  had  everyone  half  believing  that  the  end  of  the  world  was  at  hand.  I  im-  mediately  liked  Gothia.  He  made  things  interesting  in  the  ward.  As  my  hair  got  long,  Gothia  arranged  with  the  other  brothers  to  give  me  a  hair  treatment,  a  kind  of  pompa-  dour.  It  looked  like  shit,  but  I  was  flattered  to  be  admitted  into  the  company  of  the  brothers,  which  was  difficult,  my  being  white  and  a  sergeant  and  a  lifer  and  all.  A  few  weeks  after  he  arrived,  Gothia  bolted  unseen  up  the  fence  in  the  exer-  cise  yard,  did  the  Fosbury  Flop  over  the  barbed  wire  that  topped  it,  and  returned  with  a  six-pack  of  cold  malt  liquor.  I  drank  three  as  fast  as  possible  onan  empty  stomach  and  had  my  first  cheap  satori-though  whether  it  was  epilepsy  or  the  blast  from  the  alcohol  is  difficult  to  say.  As  I  finished  a  fourth  can  of  the  malt  liquor,  sitting  against  thefence  in  the  warmth  of  the  golden  sun,  I  realized  that  everything  was  for  the  best.  Years  later,  I  read  a  passage  from  Nietzsche  that  articulated  what  I  felt  in  that  fifteen-second  realization:  &quot;Becoming  is  justified  ...  war  is  a  means  to  achieve  balance.  ...  Is  the  world  full  of  guilt,  in-  justice,  contradiction  and  suffering?  Yes,  cries  Heracleitus,  but  only  for  the  lim-  ited  man  who  does  not  see  the  total  de-  sign;  not  for  the  contuitive  God;  for  him  all  contradiction  is  harmonized.&quot;  EIRD.  Sleeping  in  the  neuropsych  ward  at  night,  I  sensed  the  presence  of  a  very  large  rabbit  under my  bunk.  A  seven-foot  rabbit  with  brown  fur  and  skin  sores,  who  took  long,  raking  breaths.  I  didn't  want  to  do  it,  but  I  had  to  keep  getting  out  of  bed  to  look.  Gothia,  who  never  slept,  finally  came  over  and  asked  me  what  was  the  matter,  and  when  I  told  him  about  the  rabbit  he  chuckled  sym-  pathetically.  &quot;Hey,  man,  there's  no  rabbit.  Just  take  it  easy  and  get  some  rest,  baby.  Can  you  dig  it?  Rabbit.  Shit.&quot;  But  by  andby  my  compulsive  rabbit  checks  got  on  his  nerves,  until  one  night  he  came  over  to  my  bed  and  said,  &quot;I  told  you  there  was  no  rabbit  under  the  bed.  If  you  don't  stop  this  shit,  I  am  going  to  pinch  you.&quot;  He  said  it  louder  than  he  meant  to,  and  the  corpsman  on  watch  came  over  with  his  flashlight  and  told  Gothia  that  if  he  didn't  get  to  bed  he  was  going  to  write  him  up.  I  lay  in  the  darkness  and  waited  and  listened  to  the  rabbit  breathe  like  an  asthmatic  until  I  had  to  check  again,  whereupon  Gothia  popped  up  in  his  bed  and  pointed  his  finger  at  me  and  shouted,  &quot;There  ain't  no  goddam  rabbit,  goddam  it!  Knock  that  shit  off  !&quot;  I  shouted  back  at  him.  &quot;It's  that  rab-  bit  on  the  Brer  Rabbit  molasses  jar.  That  rabbit  with  buckles  on  his  shoes!  Bow  tie.  Yaller  teeth!  Yaller!  Yaller!&quot;  For  causing  such  a  commotion  we  were  both  shot  up,  and  put  in  isolation  rooms.  It  was  my  first  experience  with  a  straitjacket,  and  I  nearly  lost  it.  I  forced  myself  to  lie  still,  and  it  seemed  that  my  brain  was  filled  with  sawdust  and  that  centipedes,  roaches,  and  other  insects  were  crawling  through  it.  I  could  taste  brown  rabbit  fur  in  my  teeth.  I  had  a  horror  that  the  rabbit  would  come  in  the  room,  lie  on  my  face,  and  suffocate  me.  After  my  day  of  isolation,  a  brig  rat,  a  white  marine  named  Rouse,  came  up  to  me  and  said,  &quot;Hey-you  can  tell  me-  you're  faking  this  shit  so  you  can  get  out  of  the  service,  aren't  you?&quot;  Rouse,  an  S-1  clerk-typist,  a  &quot;Remington  raider&quot;  who  had  picked  up  a  heroin  habit  in  [REDACTED],  had  violet  slash  marks  on  his  arms,  and  liked  to  show  me  a  razor-blade  half  he  had  in  his  wallet.  He  offered  to  let  me  use  it  and  often  suggested  that  we  use  it  together.  Rouse  had  a  lot  of  back  pay  saved  up  and  ordered  candy  and  ciga-  rettes  from  the  commissary,  and  innu-  86  merable  plastic  airplanesto  assemble.  He  always  claimed  to  have  nasal  conges-  tion  and  ordered  Vicks  Inhalers,  which  at  that  time  contained  Benzedrine.  Rouse  would  break  them  open  and  swal-  low  the  cottons  and  then  pour  airplane  glue  on  a  washcloth  and  roll  it  into  a  tube  and  suck  on  it.  I  got  highwith  Rouse  once  by  doing  this,  but  the  Benzedrine  made  me  so  restless  that  I  begged  Thorazine  from  the  guys  who  used  to  cheek  it  and  then  spit  it  out  after  meds  were  issued.  Actually,  Rouse  was  wrong  about  me:  I  didn't  have  anything  to  hide,  and  I  wasn'tfaking  anything.  At  the  time,  I  didn't  want  out.  I  intended  to  make  the  Marine  Corps  my  home.  At  group-  therapy  sessions  I  reasonably  insisted  that  mine  was  a  straightforward  case  of  epi-  lepsy,  and  for  this  I  was  ridi-  culed  by  inmate  enemies  and  the  medi-  cal  staff  alike.  When  I  saw  I  was  getting  nowhere,  I  refused  to  speak  at  the  group-therapy  sessions  at  all,  and  I  spent  a  month  sitting  sullenly,  listening  to  ev-  eryone  argue  over  an  old  record-player  one  of  the  residents  had  brought  in  to  spice  up  the  dayroom.  The  blacks  liked  Smokey  Robinson  and  the  Miracles;  the  war  vets  were  big  on  the  Doors,  the  Rolling  Stones,  and  C.C.R.  I  started  getting  fat  from  inactivity-fat,  although  the  food  was  cold  and  tasted  lousy,  and  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  I  fasted  on  Fri-  days,  becauseThursday's  dinner  was  al-  ways  rabbit.  The  thought  of  eating  rab-  bit  after  a  night  of  sensing  the  molasses  rabbit  under  my  bed  gasping  for  air,  and  hearing  the  air  whistle  between  his  yel-  low  teeth  as  he  sucked  desperately  to  live-the  sight  of  fried  rabbit  put  me  off  food  for  a  solid  day.  WHEN  I  had  been  on  the  ward  about  six  months  and  my  fits  were  under  better  control,  apatient  named  Chandler  was  admitted.  Chan-  dler  was  a  college  graduate.  His  degree  was  in  French.  He  had  joined  the  Ma-  rine  Corps  to  become  a  fighter  pilot  but  quickly  flunked  out  of  flight  school  and  was  left  with  a  six-year  enlistment  as  a  grunt,  which  was  unbearable  to  him.  I  wasn't  sure  if  he  was  going  out  of  his  way  to  camp  things  up  so  he  could  get  a  Section  Eight  discharge,  or  if  he  always  acted  like  a  fairy.  No  one  held  it  against     him.In  fact,  a  number  of  the  borderline  patients  quickly  became  devotees  of  his  and  were  swishing  around  with  limp  wrists,  putting  on  skits  and  whatnot,  and  smoking  Chandler's  cigarette  of  choice-  [REDACTED].  Rouse  was  the  first  to  join  in  with  Chandler  by  wearing  scarves,  ker-  chiefs,  and  improvised  makeup.  Rouse  even  changed  his  name  to  Tallulah.  But  Chandler  wasn't  just  some  stupid  fairy.  He  was  erudite,  well  read,  and  well  mannered,  He  hadbeen  to  Europe.  Chandler  turned  me  on  to  Kafka  and  Paul  Valéry.  He  knew  how  to  work  the  library  system,  and  soon  I  found  that  as  long  as  I  had  a  good  book  I  did  not  mind  the  ward  half  as  much.  Under  Chandler's  influ-  ence,  Gothia  somehow  be-  came  convinced  that  he  was  Little  Richard.  After  about  the  five  hundredth  time  I  heard  Gothia  howl,  &quot;It's  Saturday  night  and  I  just  got  paid,&quot;  and  Chandler  re-  spond,  &quot;That's  better,  but  try  and  put  a  little  more  pizzazz  in  your  delivery!&quot;  I  was  glad  tosee  Gothia  go.  They  trans-  ferred  him  to  a  long-term-care  psychiat-  ric  facility  in  North  [REDACTED].  In  truth,  Gothia  was  pretty  good  asLittle  Rich-  ard.  He  was  better  at  it  than  Chandler  was  at  Bette  Davis  or  Marlene  Dietrich-  although  at  that  time  I  had  never  seen  Marlene  Dietrich  and  had  no  basis  for  comparison.  Overwhelmed  by  boredom  one  after-  noon  in  the  dayroom,  as  we  watched  Chandler  execute  yet  another  &quot;granden-  trance&quot;  (a  little  pivot  with  a  serious  lip  pout  and  a  low  and  sultry  &quot;Hello,  dar-  lings&quot;),  I  confided  to  Rouse  that  I  sus-  pected  Eagle  of  being  a  &quot;closet&quot;  faggot,  and  shortly  afterward  I  was  called  into  the  Eagle's  den  for  a  rate  appointment.  Obviously  Rouse  had  snitched  on  me.  I  told  Eagle  that  I  thought  he  was  a  ho-  mosexual  because  he  had  surfing  posters  in  his  office,  and  I  watched  him  scribble  three  pages  of  notes  about  this.  Eagle's  desk  was  cramped,  and  his  office  was  hot  in  spite  of  a  pair  of  twelve-inch  portable  fans  beating  like  they  could  use  a  couple  of  shots  of  lightweight  motor  oil,  and  I  began  to  perspire  heavily  as  I  watched  Eagle  write.  He  was  a  spectacle-a  tall  man,  cadaverously  thin,  with  his  long,  angular  legs  crossed  tightly  at  the  knees,  his  ass  perched  on  the  front  edge  of  his  chair  as  he  chain-smoked  with  one  THE  NEW  YORKER,  OCTOBER  12,  1992  hand,  flicking  ashes  into  a  well-filled  ash-  tray  on  his  desk  while  he  scribbled  at  the  notepad  on  his  lap  with  his  other  hand;  turning  pages,  lighting  fresh  cigarettes  off  the  butts  of  old  ones,  scribbling,  flipping  the  pad,  seemingly  oblivious  of  me  until  he  looked  up  and  confronted  me  with  that  incredible  tin  nose.  &quot;Do  you  realize  that  you  are  sweating?&quot;  &quot;It's  hot.&quot;  &quot;It's  hot,&quot;  he  repeated.  He  looked  down  at  his  notepad  and  proceeded  to  write  a  volume.  By  now  I  was  drenched  with  sweat,  having  something  very  much  like  a  panic  attack.  Without  looking  up,  Eagle  said,  «You're  hyperventilating.&quot;  Everything  was  getting  swirly.  Eagle  dashed  out  hiscigarette  and  reached  into  a  drawer,  withdrawing  a  stained  paper  sack  from  McDonald's.  &quot;Here,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Breathe  into  this.&quot;  I  took  the  bagand  started  breathing  into  it.  &quot;It  isn't  working,&quot;  I  said  between  breaths.  &quot;Just  give  it  a  minute.  Have  you  ever  done  this  before?  Hyperventilated?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  God,  no.&quot;  I  felt  like  I  was  dying.  Eagle  pushed  himself  back  in  his  chair  and  placed  his  hands  on  his  knees.  &quot;There's  more  at  work  here  than  just  a  seizure  disorder,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'm  seeing  some  psychopathology.&quot;  &quot;It's  that  fucking  nose,&quot;  I  said,  gasp-  ing.  &quot;I'm  freaking  out.&quot;  &quot;You  don't  like  the  nose?&quot;  Eagle  said.  &quot;Well,  how  do  you  think  I  feel  about  the  nose?  What  am  I  supposed  to  do,  go  off  on  some  island  like  Robinson  Crusoe  and  hide?&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  mean  that,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It's  just-&quot;  &quot;It's  just  too  fucking  weird,  isn't  it,  Sergeant?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  [REDACTED];  I  said.  &quot;Not  normally,  I  mean,  butI'm  on  all  this  medicine.  You've  got  to  cut  back  my  dosage.  I  can't  handle  it.&quot;  &quot;Tll  make  you  a  deal.  I'm  going  to  cut  you  back  if  you  do  something  for  me.&quot;  The  paper  bag  finally  started  to  work,  and  everything  began  to  settle  down.  &quot;What?&quot;  Eagle  removed  a  notepad  and  pencil  from  his  desk.  &quot;Take  this.  I  want  you  to  jot  down  your  feelings  every  day.  This  is  just  between  you  and  me.  I  mean,  it  can  be  anything.  If  you  were  a  kind  of  break-  fast  cereal,  for  instance,  what  would  you  be?  Would  you  be-oatmeal?  Would  you  be-mush?  Would  you  be-Frank-  THE  BLACK  LIGHTS  enBerries?  Would  you  be-Count  Chocula?&quot;  Eagle  reclined  in  his  chair,  extracted  a  Lucky  Strike,  and  lit  it-  with  the  same  effeminate  gestures,  I  noted,  that  Chandler  used  to  lighthis  556e6974656420537461746573s.  Eagle  had  very  broad  shoulders  for  such  a  thin  man.  The  sleeves  of  his  tropical  uniform  were  rolled  up  past  his  elbows.  He  brushed  what  few  strands  of  hair  he  had  back  across  his  shiny  pate.  It  was  impossible  to  ignore  his  nose.  He  looked  like  an  enormous  carrion  bird,  and  although  I  knew  I  could  break  him  in  pieces,  he  terrified  me.  He  took  a  deep  drag  and  exhaled  through  his  tin  nose.  &quot;Would  you  be-a  Wheatie?&quot;  &quot;Don't  try  to  fuck  with  my  head!&quot;  I  protested,  crushing  the  McDonald's  sack.  I  got  up  and  stalked  out  of  Eagle's  office,  but  that  night,  when  I  went  to  bed,  I  found  the  notepad  and  pencil  on  top  of  my  footlocker.  To  disprove  Eagle's  theory  that  I  was  borderline  psycho,  I  began  to  write  what  I  thought  were  mundane  and  ordinary  things  in  the  diary,  things  which  I  thoughtproved  my  mental  health,  e.g.,  &quot;A  good  day.  Read.  Played  volleyball  and  had  a  good  time  smoking  with  the  brothers.  Picked  up  a  lot  of  insight  in  group.  Favorite  breakfast:  Shit  on  a  Shingle.  T'wo  hundred  push-ups.  Hap-  py,  happy,  happy!&quot;  I  found  such  a  release  in  writing  that  I  started  a  diary  of  my  own-a  real  one,  a  secret  one,  which  Ire-  cently  glanced  through,  noting  that  the  quality  of  my  penmanship  was  very  shaky.  January  11,  1975;  Sick.  January  13,  1975:  Sick.  Managed  to  read  from  Schopenhauer.  January  15,  1975:  Borrowed  some  reading  glasses  and  read  Cioran.  Sick-  ness  unto  death.  Better  in  the  evening.  Constipated.  Food  here  is  awful.  There  are  bugs  crawling  on  the  wall  and  through  the  sawdust  that  is  my  brain.  My  personality  is  breaking  down?  I  am  having  a  nervous  breakdown?  Curiously  I  don't  have  the  &quot;stink&quot;  of  schizophrenia.  Maren  14,  1975:  Vertigo.  Double  vision.  Sick.  Can't  eat.  Marcon  18,  1975:  There  is  a  smell.  A  mousy  smell.  Aprit  34,  2007:  I  am  a  boxer  dog  of  championship  Iineage  dating  back  to  the  late  nineteenth  century,  when  the  breed  was  brought  to  a  high  point  of  development  in  [REDACTED].  I  have  a  short,  clean  brindle  coat  involving  a  pattern  of  black  stripes  over  a  base  coat  of  golden  fawn.  At  seventy-five  pounds,  I  am  considered  large  for  a  female.  My  muzzle  is  broad  and  gracefully  carried,  giving  balance  and  symmetry  to  my  head.  In  repose  or  whenI  am  deep  in  thought  my  face  is  the  very  picture  of  dignified  nobility.  Aprt  40:  My  under  jaw  is  somewhat  longer  than  the  upper  jaw  and  is  turned  up  at  the  end,  as  it  should  be.  The  jaw  projects  just  enough  to  afford  a  maximum  of  grasp-  ing  power  and  holding  power  (but  without  the  exaggeration  and  underbite  you  some-  times  see  in  poorly  bred  or  inbred  boxers).  Once  my  jaws  are  clamped  on  something  it  cannot  escape.  My  entire  muzzle  is  black.  My  nose  is  completely  black,  the  nostrils  wide  and  flar-  ing.  My  eyes  are  of  a  deep  brown  and  are  set  deeply  in  the  skull.  I  do  not  have  that  quid,  soft  expression  you  see  in  spaniels,  but  rather  assertive  eyes  that  can  create  a  menacing  and  baleful  effect  when  I  am  irritable.  This  is  particularly  the  case  whenI  fix  my  pierc-  ing  stare  on  its  target.  I  can  burn  a  hole  through  steel  and  escape  this  Mickey  Mouse  jil  anytime  I  want,  andI  will  as  soon  as  I  get  my  rest.  Arf!  Aprin  55:  Before  my  accident  I  was  a  circus  performer  with  the  simple-minded  animal  consciousness  of  the  here-and-now.  That  I  had  been  a  great  hero  of  the  circus-  the  dog  shot  from  cannons,  the  dog  that  dove  from  fifty-foot  platforms  into  shallow  bar-  8T  rels  of  water,  the  dog  that  rode  galloping  stallions  bareback-that  I  was  Boris,  the  Great  One,  a  celebrated  hero  of  Mother  [REDACTED],  beloved  by  my  countrymen  meant  .  ..  nothing  to  me.  'AGLE  has  me  back  in  his  little  office,  and  he  confronts  me  not  only  with  my  fake  diary  but  with  my  real  one  as  well.  I'm  pissed  that  they've  been  rum-  maging  through  my  personal  gear.  &quot;Let  me  get  this  straight.  You  say  you  were  this  circus  dog  in  [REDACTED],  and  you  got  a  brain  injury  when  you  were  shot  from  a  cannon?&quot;  &quot;I  forgot  to  wear  my  safety  helmet.&quot;  &quot;So  a  famous  neurosurgeon  put  your  brains  back  together  and  sent  you  to  a  health  spa-&quot;  &quot;Only  the  V.LP.s  went  there.  Niki-  ta  K.  was  there.  I  knew  him.  Dancers  from  the  Bolshoi.  Army  Generals.  K.G.B.  officials.  Chess  champions.&quot;  &quot;And  you  .  ..  a  dog?&quot;  &quot;I  wasn't  just  a  dog.  I  was  the  Rin  Tin  Tin  of  [REDACTED].&quot;  &quot;You're  pretty  bright  and  well  in-  formed.  How  can  you  know  all  this  kind  of  thing?&quot;  &quot;Because  it's  true,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;How  would  you  like  it  if  I  sent  you  to  the  brig?&quot;  &quot;Fine.  The  brig  would  be  fine.  I'm  a   howlin'  wolf.  Put  me  in  a  cage  or  let  me  g  O,”  Eagle  drummed  his  fingers  on  his  desk,  changing  pace.  &quot;Tell  me  some-  thing.  What  does  this  old  saying  mean  to  you?  'People  who  live  in  glass  houses  shouldn't  throw  stones'?&quot;  Finger  drum-  ming.  &quot;Well?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know-&quot;  &quot;'A  rolling  stone  gathers  no  moss.&quot;  What  does  that  mean?&quot;  &quot;Don't  know.&quot;  Eagle  began  to  write  furiously.  &quot;Why  would  anyone  live  in  a  glass  house?  It  would  be  hot,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;And  ev-  eryone  could  see  you.&quot;  &quot;I  hear  you  like  to  read  Kafka.  That's  heavy  stuff  for  a  young  guy.  You're  pretty  bright.  Have  you  ever  read  any  books  on  abnormal  psychology?&quot;  &quot;Hey,  man,  just  let  me  out  of  this  motherfucker.  I'm  going  down  in  this  place.  Put  me  in  a  normal  ward  and  let  me  see  a  real  doctor.&quot;  &quot;I'll  give  it  some  thought.  In  the  meantime,  I'dlike  you  to  check  this  out,&quot;  Eagle  said,  clapping  me  on  the  shoulder.  He  handed  me  a  copy  of  &quot;Love  Against  Hate,&quot;  by  Karl  Men-  ninger.  StaArLOc,  JanurEs,  2010:  &quot;Gate  is  straight/Deep  and  wide/Break  on  through  to  the  other  side.  .  ..&quot;  THERE  was  an  old  piano  in  the  day-  room.  When  a  Marine  freaked  out  and  broke  the  record-player,  Chan-  dler  started  playing  the  piano  day  and  night-driving  me  crazy.  &quot;Canadian  Sunset&quot;  over  and  over  and  over  again!  One  night  I  rubbed  cigarette  ashes  all  over  myself  for  camouflage,  crawled  into  the  dayroom  recon  style,  and  snapped  off  the  little  felt  hammers  inside  the  pi-  ano.  Shoulda  seen  the  look  on  Chan-  dler's  face  when  he  sat  down  to  play.  This  was  not  insane  behavior.  I  knew  I  was  not  really  insane.  I  was  just  a  garden-variety  epileptic  temporarily  off  my  game.  Thrown  a  little  by  the  war.  I  laughed  and  said  to  Chandler,  &quot;Hey  man,  what's  the  sound  of  one  hand  clap-  ping?&quot;  After  I  put  the  piano  out  of  commis-  sion,  I  noticed  Chandler  was  losing  weight.  They  had  him  on  some  new  medication.  He  quit  camping  around  and  took  a  troubled  leap  into  the  dark-  ness  of  his  own  soul.  He  grew  quiet  and     started  sitting  in  the  corner  with  catatonic  Joe.  A  black  Marine,  a  rotund  and  powerful  murderer  from  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  named  Bobby  Dean  Steele,  was  admitted  to  the  ward  for  observa-  tion,  and  he  began  to  dominate.Despite  the  charges  pending  against  him,  he  was  buoyant  and  cheerful.  He  walked  over  to  Joe's  corner  a  lot  and  would  say,  &quot;Joe-be-  doe,  what's  happening?  What's  the  mat-  ter,  man?  You  saw  some  bad  shit  in  the  Nam,  didn't  you?  Well,  that's  O.K.  We're  going  to  fix  you  up-not  those  doctors,  but  us,  the  jarheads.  We'll  help  you.  I  know  you  can  hear  me.  Go  easy,  man.&quot;  Bobby  Dean  Steele  gave  Joe  back  rubs  and  wiped  his  face  and  in  a  matter  of  a  few  days  was  leading  him  around  the  ward  in  a  rigid,  shuffle-step  fashion.  The  patients  began  to  rally  around  Joe,  and  soon  everyone  was  giving  him  hugs  and  reassuring  him.  One  of  the  corps-  men  warned  me  that  catatonics  often  snap  out  of  their  rigid  stupors  to  perform  sudden  acts  of  extreme  violence.  It  was  a  catatonic  who  had  bitten  off  the  Eagle's  nose,  he  said.  For  a  brief  period  during  Bobby  Dean  Steele's  tenure,  my  temporal-lobe  visions  jumped  more  and  more  into  grand-mal  seizures.  Just  before  the  fits,  instead  of  having  otherworldly  spells,  I  felt  only  fear  and  would  see  the  black  lights  of  boxing.  I  was  having  very  vio-  lent  fits.  In  one  of  these  Ibit  my  tongue  nearly  in  half,  and  for  two  weeks  I  sat  in  Joe's  corner  with  Chandler,  overloaded  on  anticonvulsants.  My  corpsman  came  by  with  a  little  spray  bottle  and  sprayed  my  tongue.  It  had  swollen  so  much  that  I  could  not  shut  my  mouth,  and  it  stank.  It  stank  worse  than  schizophrenia,  and  even  the  schizophrenics  complained.  Bobby  Dean  Steele  and  I  got  into  a  fistfight  over  the  tongue,  and  I  was  amazed  at  my  ability  to  spring  into  ac-  tion,  since  I  felt  nearly  comatose  when  he  came  over  to  the  corner  and  started  jawing  at  me,  kicking  at  me  with  his  shower  shoes.  I  got  up  punching  and  dropped  him  with  a  left  hook  to  the  jaw.  The  sound  of  his  huge  body  hitting  the  tile  was  like  that  of  ahalf  dozen  rotten  melons  dropped  on  concrete.  Bobby  Dean  Steele  had  to  be  helped  to  the  se-  clusion  room,  but  I  was  not  required  to  go  there,  nor  was  I  shot  up.  I  guess  it  was  because  my  tongue  made  me  look  miserable  enough.  When  Bobby  Dean  Steele  came  out  of  isolation,  he  was  so  heavily  loaded  on  Thorazine  that  his  spunk  was  gone,  and  without  his  antics  and  good  cheer  there  was  suddenly  no  &quot;character&quot;  on  the  ward.  Joe,  who  had  seemed  to  be  com-  ing  out  of  his  catatonia,  reverted  back  to  it,  but  rather  than  seeking  out  his  corner,  he  assumed  and  maintained  impossible  positions  of  waxy  flexibility  wherever  he  happened  to  be.  It  was  like  some  kind  of  twisted  yoga.  I  had  heard  that  Joe  had  been  at  Khe  Sanh  during  the  siege  and,  like  Jake  Barnes  in  &quot;The  Sun  Also  Rises,&quot;  received  a  groin  wound-that  he  had  lost  his  coconuts.  I  often  wonder  THE  BLACK  LIGHTS  why  that  is  considered  such  a  terrible  thing.  I  brought  this  up  and  was  roundly  put  down.  Better  tolose  your  sight,  arms,  legs,  hearing,  said  Rouse.  Only  Chandler,  who  rarely  spoke  up  anymore,  agreed  with  me.  &quot;If  there  was  a  hot-  fudge  sundae  on  one  side  of  the  room  and  a  young  Moroccan  stud  with  a  cock  like  a  bronze  sculpture  on  the  other,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;I'd  make  for  the  ice  [REDACTED];  EAGLE  came  to  Chandler's  rescue,  just  as  he  had  bailed  me  out  for  a  while  with  the  diary  idea.  Eagle  ap-  pointed  Chandler  his  clerk,  and  in  a  few  weeks  Chandler  began  to  put  on  weight.  As  a  clerk,  he  was  allowed  to  leave  the  ward  under  the  escort  of  one  of  the  corpsmen.  Invariably  he  went  into  Oceanside  to  the  bookstores  or  to  res-  taurants  to  gorge  on  big  meals.  He  brought  me  delicious  food  in  doggie  bags,  and  books:  Dostoyevski,  Spinoza,  Sartre-the  writers  he  insisted  I  read-  and  the  lighter  stuff  I  preferred.  I  was  reading  a  lot  and  having  fewer  seizures;  I  had  begun  to  get  better.  Chandler  was  better,  too,  and  up  to  his  old  mis-  chief.  He  constantly  mimicked  his  new  boss,  and  his  devastating  imitations  were  so  accurate  that  they  actually  made  me  realize  how  much  I  respected  Eagle,  who  had  the  advantages  of  a  good  edu-  cation  and  presumably  had  a  history  of  confidence  and  self-esteem,  but  now,  with  his  tin  nose,  had  been  cut  adrift  from  the  human  race.  The  humilia-  tion  of  epilepsy  had  unmanned  me,  and  I  felt  empathy  for  the  doctor.  At  least  I  looked  like  a  human  being.  According  to  Chandler,  Eagle  had  no  friends.  Chan-  dler  also  told  me  that  Eagle  would  get  drunk  and  remove  his  tin  nose  and  bel-  low,  &quot;I  am  the  Phantom  of  the  Opera.  Ah  haha  ha!&quot;  Patients  came  and  went,  and  time  passed-I  had  been  in  the  nuthouse  for  fourteen  months.  I  was  becoming  one  of  the  senior  patients  on  the  ward.  We  got  very  good  meals  on  the  anniversary  of  the  founding  of  the  Marine  Corps,  on  Thanksgiving,  at  Christmas.  In  fact,  at  Christmas,  entertainment  was  brought  in.  I  remember  a  set  of  old  geezers  who  constituted  a  Dixieland  band.  They  did  not  play  that  well,  but  it  made  for  awel-  come  break  in  the  routine  of  med  calls,  ofshower  shoes  flip-flopping  across  the  kelly-green  tiles,  of  young  men  freaking  out  at  the  security  screen  near  Joe's  corner,  of  people  getting  high  on  airplane  glue  and  Vicks  Inhalers,  of  people  trying  to  kill  themselves  by  putting  their  heads  in  plastic  bags,  of  the  long  nights  in  the  ward  with  the  bed  springs  squealing  from  incessant  masturbation,  punctuated  by  nightmares  and  night  terrors  and  cries  of  &quot;Incoming!,&quot;  of  the  same  cold  starchy  meals  over  and  over  again,  of  a  parched  mouth  from  drug  dehydration  and  too  many  cigarettes,  of  a  life  without  hope.  When  the  band  took  a  rest  between  sets,  two  old  farts,  one  white  and  one  black,  played  a  banjo  duet  of  &quot;Shanty  Town&quot;  that  brought  tears  to  my  eyes.  Then  a  group  of  square  dancers  came  in.  They  were  miserable-looking  middle-  aged  types  in  Western  getups,  the  women  with  fat  legs.  You  could  sense  their  apprehension,  and  I  realized  that  I  had  forgotten  how  frightening  some-  one  like  Bobby  Dean  Steele,  who  had  been  copping  an  attitude  of  late,  wear-  ing  an  Afro  and  a  pair  of  black  gloves,  must  have  seemed  to  people  like  them.  Once  the  music  began,  however,  the  misery  was  erased  from  their  faces  and  replaced  by  a  hypnotic  expression  as  they  mechanically  went  through  their  paces.  From  my  folding  chair,  swooning  on  phenobarbital,  overly  warm  from  all  the  body  heat,  I  was  in  agony  until  I  saw-with  a  rare  and  refined  sense  of  objectivity-that  their  sufferings  and  miseries  vanished  in  their  dancing,  as  they  fell  into  the  rhythm  of  the  music  and  the  singsong  of  the  caller's  instruc-  tions.  And  for  a  moment  I  saw  myself  as  well;  I  saw  myself  as  if  from  on  high,  saw  the  pattern  of  my  whole  life  with  a  kind  of  geometrical  precision,  like  the  pattern  the  dancers  were  making,  and  it  seemed  there  was  a  perfect  rightness  to  it  all.  NE  day  after  chow,  Bobby  Dean  Steele  was  summoned  to  the  meds  kiosk  by  one  of  the  doctors,  and  a  corpsman  buzzed  apair  of  enormous  brig  chasers  through  the  heavy  steel  door  of  the  ward.  They  cuffed  Bobby  Dean  Steele,  while  the  resident  on  duty  shrugged  his  shoulders  and  told  Steele  that  he  was  being  transferred  back  to  the  brig  to  stand  General  Court-Martial  for  three  counts  of  murder  in  the  second  de-  gree.  It  had  been  decided,  Chandler  in-  90  formed  us,  that  Bobby  Dean  Steele  was  not  especially  crazy-at  least  not  accord-  ing  to  observation,  the  M.M.P.I.,  and  the  Rorschach.  Chandler  told  us  that  Steele  would  end  up  doing  twenty  years  hard  labor  in  a  federalprison.  My  own  departure  was  somewhat  different.  Eagle  called  me  into  his  office  and  said,  &quot;I'm  sending  you  home.  Don't  ask  me  whether  you're  cured  or  not.  I  don't  know.  I  do  know  you  were  an  out-  standing  Marine,  and  I  have  processed  papers  for  a  full  disability  pension.  Good  luck  to  you,  Sergeant.&quot;  &quot;Thank  you.&quot;  I  was  dumbfounded.  &quot;When  you  get  home,  find  yourself  a  good  neurologist.  ...  And  keep  your  ass  out  of  the  boxing  rings.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  sir.&quot;  As  I  turned  to  leave,  Eagle  saluted  me.  I  returned  the  salute  proudly,  and  I  heard  his  booming,  operatic  laugh  start  up  after  I  pulled  his  door  shut  behind  me.  HE  next  morning  I  collected  over  nine  thousand  dollars  in  back  pay  and  I  went  out  to  the  bus  stop  with  my  seabag  on  my  shoulder.  A  master  ser-  geant  came  by,  and  I  asked  him  what  time  the  bus  came.  He  told  me  that  I  could  not  leave  the  base  until  I  got  a  No.  1  haircut  and  I  told  him  to  forget  it,  that  I  was  a  civil-  ian.  A  moment  later  ajeep  pulled  over  and  a  captain  with  an  M.P.  bandon  his  sleeve  hopped  out.  I  showed  him  my  discharge  papers,  the  jump  wings  on  my  set  of  blues,  the  Navy  Cross  and  the  two  Silvers,  and  he  said,  &quot;Big  fucking  deal.  You  got  a  General  Discharge,  Sergeant.  A  psychiatric  discharge,  Ser-  geant.  I  want  you  off  this  base  immediately.&quot;  &quot;Well  give  me  a  ride  and  I'll  be  glad  to  get  off  the  motherfucker,&quot;  I  said.  I  was  beginning  tosee  cock-  roaches  crawling  through  the  wet  saw-  dust  inside  my  skull,  and  I  kept  wiping  my  nose  for  fear  they  would  run  out  and  brush  across  my  lips.  &quot;You're  a  psycho,&quot;  the  master  ser-  geant  said.  &quot;Go  out  there  and  wreak  havoc  and  mayhem  on  the  general  population,  and  good  riddance.&quot;  &quot;You  could  cut  me  some  slack,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;I  was  a  real  Marine,  not  some  rear-echelon  blowhard,  and  by  the  way,     fuck  the  Corps.  Eat  the  apple,  and  fuck  the  Corps.  I  curse  the  day  I  ever  joined  this  green  motherfucker.&quot;  &quot;I  want  you  off  this  base  and  I  want  you  to  hump  it  off  this  base,&quot;  the  master  sergeant  said.  &quot;You  mean  I  don't  have  to  get  a  hair-  cut  after  all?&quot;  I  said  in  my  best  Nellie  voice.  &quot;Fucking  hit  the  road,  Marine.  Haight-Ashbury  is  that  way.&quot;  &quot;Well,  fuck  you,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;And  fuck  you.  Go  fuck  yourself.&quot;  I  threw  my  seabag  down  and  was  about  to  fight  when  a  Marine  in  a  beat,  up  T-bird  pulled  over  to  the  bus  stop  and  asked  me  ifI  needed  a  lift.  Without  another  word  I  tossed  my  seabag  in  his  back  seat  and  hopped  into  the  car.  Be-  fore  I  could  say  thanks  he  hit  me  up  for  five  bucks  in  gas  money.  &quot;It's  twenty-  three  miles  to  Oceanside,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;And  I'm  runnin'  on  empty.  Iain't  even  gota  spare  tire,  no  jack,  no  nothing.&quot;  He  looked  at  me  and  laughed,  revealing  a  mouth  filled  with  black  cavities.  He  said,  &quot;Hey,  man,  you  wouldn't  happen  to  have  a  cigarette,  would  you?&quot;  I  handed  him  my  pack.  &quot;Hey,  thanks,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;That's  all  right,&quot;  Isaid.  He  lit  the  cigarette  and  took  a  deep  drag.  &quot;You  want  to  hear  some  strange  shit?&quot;  &quot;Why  not?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  just  got  six,  six,  and  a  kick.&quot;  The  Marine  took  an-  other  pull  off  the  cigarette  and  said,  &quot;Six  months  in  the  brig,  six  months  without  pay,  and  a  Bad  Conduct  Dis-  charge.&quot;  &quot;What  did  you  do?&quot;  I  asked.  I  was  trying  to  stop  the  vision  of  bugs.  &quot;AWOL,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Which  is  what  I'm  doing  now.  I  ain't  going  to  do  no  six  months  in  the  fucking  brig,  man.  I  did  two  tours  in  Nam.  I  don't  deserve  this  kindof  treatment.  You  want  to  know  something?&quot;  &quot;What's  that?&quot;  &quot;I  stole  this  fucking  car.  Hot-wired  the  motherfucker,&quot;  &quot;Far  out,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Which  way  you  go-  ing?&quot;  &quot;As  far  as  five  bucks  in  gas  will  take  me.&quot;  &quot;I  got  a  little  money.  Drive  me  to  Haight-Ashbury?&quot;  &quot;Groovy.  What  are  you  doing,  man,  picking  your  nose?&quot;  &quot;Just  checking  for  cockroaches,&quot;  I  said  weakly.  I  was  afraid  I  was  going  to  have  a  fit,  and  I  began  to  see  the  black  lights-they  were  coming  on  big  time,  but  I  fought  them  off.  &quot;What  was  your  M.O.S.?&quot;  &quot;Oh-three-eleven,  communications.  I  packed  a  radio  over  in  I  Corps.  Three  Purple  Hearts  and  three  Bronze  Stars  with  valor.  That's  why  I  ain't  doing  six  months  in  no  brig.  I  just  hope  the  'P.  waves  us  through  at  the  gate.  I  don't  want  no  high-speed  chases.&quot;  The  Ma-  rine  lit  another  of  my  cigarettes  from  the  butt  of  the  first  one.  &quot;Hey,  man,  were  you  in  the  war?  You  look  like  you  got  some  hard  miles  on  you.  Were  you  in  the  war?  Did  you  just  get  out?  You're  not  going  AWOL,  too-that  ain't  no  regulation  haircut.  Man,  you  got  a  headful  of  hair.  On  the  run?  How  about  it?  Were  you  in  the  war?  You  got  that  thousand-yard  stare,  man.  Hey,  man,  stop  picking  your  nose  and  tell  me  about  it.&quot;  Arf  &quot;God  damn  it,  are  you  zoned  or  what?&quot;  Bow  wow!  &quot;I  can't  believe  this  shit.  That  motherfucker  'P.  at  the  gate  is  pulling  me  over.  Look  at  that.  Can  you  believe  this  shit?  They  never  pull  you  over  at  this  gate,  not  at  this  time  of  day-and  I  haven't  got  any  identification.  Shit!  Buckle  up  your  seat  belt,  nose-pickin'  man,  we  are  gonna  motate.  This  fucking  Ford  has  got  a  blower  on  the  engine  and  it  can  boogie.  Haight-Ashbury,  here  we  come  or  we  die  tryin'.  Save  us  some  of  that  free  love!  Just  hope  you  get  some  of  that  free  lovin'-save  me  some  of  that  good  pussy!&quot;  The  Marine  slammed  his  foot  down  full  on  the  accelerator.  The  T-bird  surged  like  a  rocket  and  blew  by  the  guard  post,  snapping  off  the  wooden  crossbar.  For  a  moment  I  felt  like  I  was  back  in  the  jungle  again,  a  savage  in  greasepaint,  or  back  in  the  boxing  ring,  a  primal  man-kill  or  be  killed.  It  was  the  best  feeling.  It  was  ecstasy.  The  bugs  vanished.  My  skull  contained  gray  mat-  ter  again.  I  looked  back  at  the  M.P.  in  the  guard  post  making  a  frantic  call  on  the  telephone.  But  the  crazy  Marine  at  the  wheel  told  me  not  to  worry,  he  knew  the  back  roads.     