THOSE  LITTLE  PAPERS  (Tre  Diary  or  a  Man  On  anp  Over  tus  Brink)  Preheat  the  oven  to  400°.  Grease  a  12-cup  muffin  tin  or  line  the  cups  with  those  little  papers.  Lovingly  beat  the  eggs  together.  ...  Carefully  pour  in  our  Many-Bran  Muffin  mix  and  gently  stir  together.  Don't  beat  it  now  or  over  mix  it  'cause  then  the  little  gems  won't  be  nearly  so  light  and  ...  -Recipe  on  the  package  of  Buckeye  Many-Bran  Muffins.  ATURDAY  night.  Cocktails  at  the  S  DeMasnells'.  People  who  in-  vented  the  rotary  lawnmower;  fabulously  rich.  Sally  absolutely  blotto;  Bobby  telling  that  funny  story  about  Mrs.  Twombly  and  Labor  Day.  &quot;Mrs.  Twombly  regrets  she  doesn't  know  about  Labor  Day,&quot;  etc.,  etc.  Bobby  absolutely  blotto.  Saturday  night-much  later.  Sally  called  from  Rhigis  Rota  Hotel.  Wants  a  separation.  Wants  to  liveat  Rhigis  Rota  Hotel.  Only  ten  thousand  a  month,  and  I  can  keep  the  kids.  Generous,  I  guess.  Saturday  night-the  very  end  of  it.  Went  to  kitchen.  Made  soufflé.  Damned  hard  to  be  a  man.  Tuesday.  Bobby  definitely  in  A.A.  &quot;Twelve  Step&quot;  this.  &quot;Twelve  Step&quot;  that.  Felt  mean,  so  asked  if  it  was  a  dance.  Midge  picked  up  on  it.  &quot;How  about  two  days  at  a  time,&quot;  Midge  said.  Spratt  mn     Bobby  just  lashed  back,  picked  up  that  sweet  little  Biedermeier  chair,  the  one  with  the  apricot  velvet  upholstery,  and  hurled  it  through  the  window.  The  color  ofthat  chair's  upholstery  stayed  with  me.  Apricot  .  .  .  so  soft,  exactly  like  a  souffle.  When  I  got  home  I  phoned  the  Rhigis  Rota,  which  has  never  even  heard  of  Sally.  Lot  of  explaining  to  do  to  the  kids.  Made  a  soufflé.  Thank  God  some  things  are  still  simple.  ETER.  Not  so  simple,  after  all.  Sally  burst  in  here  with  arms  akimbo-definitely  not  at  her  sides,  where  they  should  be  (arms  should  be  neat,  just  a  little  flesh  with  a  touch  of  pink  peeping  out  of  a  pretty  cotton-  print  sleeve,  for  God's  sake).  &quot;Dis-  cover  the  depths  of  your  misogyny!&quot;  she  shouted,  and  ripped  up  the  copy  of  Playboy  I  was  saving-the  one  with  the  picture  of  the  nice  cherry  cobbler  on  a  simple  deal  table  in  [REDACTED].  &quot;I  just  don't  happen  to  like  the  dress  you  have  on,&quot;  I  dared  to  whisper....  Right  now  thinking  about  that  cobbler:  flour,  sugar;  just  a  little  fruit  flesh  dripping  through  one's  fingers  ...  Anyway.  Writing  this  in  the  kitchen.  Last  bastion  of  manhood.  Wednesday.  Guess  what?  There's  no  money  in  either  of  the  Canadian   trusts.  They  are  in  astate  of  what  is  called  Total  Disbursement.  Whew!  Sent  kids  to  Camp  Slew,  told  Camp  Slew  to  send  bill  to  Rhigis  Rota  Hotel.  Decided  to  stay  here  in  the  kitchen.  More  manly  here.  The  eggs;  the  cast-  iron  Dutch  oven.  Heating  up.  God,  Sally  was  pretty.  That  hair;  the  way  she  shook  it.  Never  went  to  the  hair-  dresser;  swam,  let  the  sun  dry  it,  shook  it  out,  and  there  it  was-a  goddam  crown,  for  Christ's  sake.  Kiss  her  neck  ...  Forget  Sally.  How  about  a  nice  something  with  plums  or  prunes?  Fun  to  take  the  flesh  off,  throw  away  the  pits.  Fun  to  throw  things  away  and  end  up  with  a  nice  tart.  Wednesday-later.  REALLY  DESPER-  ATE.  PRUNE  SOUFFLE  A  BIG  FLOP.  JUST  PURPLE  DREGS  IN  A  BOWL.  Jesus,  did  I  write  that?  &quot;Purple  dregs  in  a  bowl&quot;?  Reminds  me  of  Middlewood  School  English  Three  Special.  Tommy  Rhiner,  Billy  Horace.  God,  our  fathers  owned  the  world.  Purple  dregs  in  a  bowl.  What  a  school!  Dappled  light  on  the  playing  fields  beyond.  Beyond  what?  SUNDAY  afternoon.  Had  some  time  to  myself.  Went  upstairs.  Sat  down  on  the  little  sofa  opposite  the  French  window.  Felt  like  a  soufflé  that  had  risen.  Camp  Slew  called,  and  I  just  told  them  to  go  to  hell.  Like  the  old  days,  when  I  had  confidence.  Told  them  there  was  money  coming  from  [REDACTED].  Didn't  say  to  whom,  so  didn't  tell  a  real  lie.  Man  would  definitely  not  tell  a  real  lie.  Man  simple.  ABC.  Bond  that  way.  Like  wolves.  W  hat  is  simple  now?  Only  f-o-o-d,  that's  what.  &quot;Add  milk.&quot;  No  con-  flict  there.  Felt  better  than  at  any  time  since  1957  Harvard-Yale  game.  Hands  simply  ran  through  apple,  cinnamon;  beautiful  little  crust  simply  appeared.  Thought  about  apple  country.  Bride  and  groom.  Newlyweds  on  the  hay  wagon-and  later  in  the  bridal  bedroom.  The  handsome  young  man  ...  Crust  truly  THE  NEW  YORKER  flaky.  Used  real  lard,  of  course.  Animal  fat.  Makes  you  feel  like  a  man.  Monday  a.m.,  I  guess.  Still  in  kitchen,  butnot  so  simple.  Awful  woman  called  from  Camp  Slew,  said  shelter  was  an  extra-cost  item  and  so  had  to  put  kids  in  welfare  motel.  No  ticky,  no  checky.  That  point  of  view.  So  unlike  Camp  Guiscard.  Ah!  Camp  Guiscard!  Picked  us  up  in  special  buses.  Lectures  about  the  townspeople.  Strict  allowance  of  two  dollars  a  week,  no  matter  how  much  they  wanted  to  send  from  home.  Horace's  grandmother  in  the  maroon  Rolls-Royce,  dropping  off  an  extra  pair  of  linen  shorts.  Blowing  me  a  kiss.  &quot;And  say  hello  to  that  divine  mother  of  yours!&quot;  Rushing  off  to  Cannes.  Horace  loved  her,  though.  Differ-  ent  platoons.  The  Guelphs;  the  Merovingians.  Renaissance,  pre-  Renaissance  nobility.  All  the  Phila-  delphia  boys  were  Guelphs,  as  I  recall.  Simple  Spartan  virtue.  That's  what  we  had.  Simplicity  eludes.  Tried  a  crust,  but  it  fell  into  pieces.  Crumbs  over  every-  thing.  Tried  meringue  and  came  up  with  runny  whites.  Whites  on  floor  make  aslippery  mess.  Did  I  write  that?  Am  I  a  white  on  the  floor  making  aslippery  mess?  More  manly  in  the  kitchen.  Did  I  write  that?  A  LITTLE  later.  Must  try  to  rally.  Fourth  down.  Punt.  Remember  that?  &quot;Punt  it&quot;?  Me  and  Sammy.  All-nighters.  Just  do  something,  even  if  you  have  to  use  a  mix.  What's  this'  Something  Sally  bought.  &quot;Buckeye  Many-Bran  Muffins.&quot;  Better  than  nothing.  Sally  not  so  bad.  Still  has  nice  hair.  Daddy  wrote  Triangle  show.  Not  so  bad,  either.  &quot;Jung  at  Heart.&quot;  Let's  sing  some  of  that.  No,  let's  not.  Let's  just  make  a  simple  bran  muffin.  Simple.  Direct.  The  last  refuge  of  ABC  equals  good  result.  O.K.  Hold  hands  still,  for  God's  sake.  Why  do  :y  hands  shake?  I  don't  drink,  I  cook.  All  right.  Here  goes.  The  first  step  back  up  the  slip-  pery  slope  .  ..  &quot;1  Box  Buckeye  Many-  Bran  Muffin  mix.&quot;  Well,  I've  got  that.  ...  Just  give  me  a  good,  solid  recipe  any  day.  &quot;Preheat  the  oven  to  400.&quot;  See?  So  simple.  Why  can't  the world  be  like  that?  Granddaddy's  blast  furnace  making  iron  tools  to  last  a  hundred  years.  Why  can't  poetry  be  like  that?  &quot;Shropshire  Lad,&quot;  and  so  forth.  Me  and  Bobby  reading  Hous-  man  by  the  millpond.  O.K.  Much  better  now.  &quot;Grease  a  12-cup  muffin  tin  or  line  the  cups  with  those  little  papers.&quot;  What  do  they  mean,  &quot;those  little  papers'&quot;?  What  little  papers?  &quot;Those  Little  Papers.&quot;  I  suppose  they  do  not  mean  the  supermarket  tabloids.  Those  Little  Papers.  One  of  those  phrases  that  won't  leave  you  alone.  No  ticky,  no  checky,  in  a  way.  Those  Little  Papers.  Please,  God,  don't  let  me  go  around  all  day  saying  &quot;those  little  papers&quot;  to  myself.  Please,  God,  let  me  have  the  kitchen.  I'll  give  them  every-  thing  else-the  living  room  with  the  Boldini  of  great-grandma;  the  patio  with  the  flowers  in  a  pot;  the  library  with  the  books  on  ...  Just  hold  your  hands  still.  What's  next?  &quot;Lovingly  beat  the  eggs  together  with  oil  ...&quot;  &quot;Lovingly  beat.&quot;  Oh  dear,  they  have  found  me  in  the  kitchen.  I  gave  them  Camp  Guiscard.  I  let  them  have  Sally.  Must  try  to  remember  name  of  motel  where  kids  are.  Definitely  wrote  it  down.  Uh-oh.  Just  hold  your  hands  still.  Lovingly  hold  your  hands  still.  Uh-  oh.  They  are  in  my  brain.  Uh-oh.  ..  lovingly  ...  