 b" OFFLOADING  FOR  MRS.  SCHWARTZ  by  George  Saunders  LIZABETH  always  thought  the  E  fake  stream  runningthrough  our  complex  was  tacky.  When-  ever  I'd  sit  brooding  beside  it  after  one  of  our  fights  she'd  hoot  down  at  me  from  the  balcony.  Then  I'd  come  in  and  we'd  make  up.  Oh  would  we.  I  think  of  it.  I  think  of  it  and  think  of  it.  Finally,  in  despair,  I  call  GuiltMasters.  Guilt-  Masters  are  Jean  and  Bob  Fleen,  a  brother/sister  psychiatric  practice.  In  their  late-night  TV  ad  they  wear  cowls  and  capes  and  stand  on  either  side  of  a  sobbing  neurotic  woman  in  sweater  and  slacks.  By  the  end  of  the  bit  she's  romping  through  a  field  of  daisies.I  get  Jean  Fleen.  I  tell  her  I've  done  a  bad  thing  I  can't  live  with.  She  says  I've  called  the  right  place.  She  says  there  is  nothing  so  shameful  it  can't  be  ad-  dressed  by  GuiltMasters.  I  take  a  deep  breath  and  spill  my  guts.  There's  a  si-  lence  from  Jean's  end.  Then  she  asks  can  I  hold.  Upbeat  Muzak  comes  on.  Several  minutes  later  Bob  comes  on  and  asks  can  they  call  me  back.  I  wait  by  the  phone.  One  hour,  two  hours,  all  night.  Nothing.  The  sun  comes  up.  Brad  from  Complex  Grounds  turns  on  the  bubbler  and  the  white  water  begins  to  flow.  I  don't  shower.  I  don't  shave.  I  put  on  the  same  pants  I  had  on  before.  It's  too  much.  Three  years  since  her  death  and  still  I'm  a  wreck.  I  think  of  fleeing  the  city.  I  think  of  working  on  a  shrimp-  er  or  setting  myself  on  fire  downtown.  Instead  I  go  to  work.  In  spite  of  my  problems,  personal  interactive  hologra-  phy  marches  on.  I  takethe  Klepp  Park-  way  to  the  VistaVu  Mall.  I  park  in  Em-  ployees,  and  drag  myself  into  my  shop,  Escape  From  You.  All  morning  I  hope-  fully  dust.  Nobody  comes  in.  At  noon,  I  work  out  a  little  tension  by  running  amok  in  one  of  my  modules.  I  choose  Bowling  with  the  Pros.  A  holographic  smoothie  in  a  blazer  greets  me  and  affably  asks  if  I'm  as  tired  as  he  is  of  pe-  rennially  over-hooking  the  ball  when  what  I  really  need  is  to  consistently  throw  strikes.  I  tell  him  fuck  off.  In  a  more  sophisticated  module  he'd  ask  why  the  hostility,  but  my  equipment  is  out-  dated  and,  instead,  he  looks  confused  and  tries  to  shake  my  hand.  What  crappy  verisimilitude.  No  wonder  I'm  in  the  red.  No  wonder  my  rent's  overdue.  He  asks  isn't  bowling  a  lovely  recreation?  I  tell  him  I'm  in  mourning.  He  says  the  hours  spent  ina  bowling  alley  with  friends  certainly  make  for  some  fantastic  memories  years  down  the  line.  I  tell  him  my  life's  in  the  crapper.  He  grins  and  says  let's  bowl,  let's  go  in  and  bowl,  let's  go  in  and  bowl  a  few  frames-with  the  Pros!  I  take  him  by  the  throat.  Of  course  he  Dysfunctions.  Of  course  I'm  auto-  matically  unbooted.  I  doff  my  head-  set  and  dismount  the  treadmill.  Once  again  it's  just  me  and  my  failing  shop.  Once  again  the  air  reeks  of  microwaved  popcorn.  Once  again  I  am  only  who  I  am.  Wonderful,  I  think-you've  fouled  up  your  own  four-hundred-dollar  mod-  ule.  And  I  have.  So  I  trash  it.  I  write  it  off  togrief  management.  I  go  to  lunch.  I  opt  for  an  autodispensed  Freight-  Furter.  Of  course  I  overmicrowave  and  the  paper  cowcatcher  melds  with  the  bun  and  the  little  engineer's  face  runs  down  his  overalls.  It's  even  more  inedible  than  usual.  I  chuck  it.  I  can't  afford  another.  I  chuck  it  and  go  wait  for  my  regulars.  At  two,  Mr.  Bomphil  comes  in  look-  ing  guilty  and,  as  always,  requests  Vio-  lated  Prom  Queen,  then  puts  on  his  high  heels  and  selects  Treadmill  Three.  Treadmill  Three  is  behind  a  beam,  so  he'sfree  to  get  as  worked  up  as  he  likes,  which  is  very.  I  try  not  to  hear  him  moan.  I  try  not  to  hear  him  call  each  football-team  member  by  name.  He's  followed  by  Theo  Kiley,  an  appli-  ance  salesman,  who  lays  down  a  ream  of  Frigidaire  specs  and  asks  for  Legend-  ary  556e6974656420537461746573n  Killers  Stalk  You.  I  strap  on  his  headset.  I  insert  his  module.  For  twenty  minutes  he  hems  and  haws  with  Clyde  Barrow.  Finally  he  slips  up  and  succumbs  to  a  burst  of  machine-gun  fire,  then  treats  himself  to  a  Sprite.  &quot;Whew,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Next  time  I'll  know  to  avoid  the  topic  of  his  mom.&quot;  I  remind     " b"      him  he's  got  an  outstanding  bill.  He  says  thanks.  He  says  his  bill  and  his  ability  to  match  wits  with  great  criminals  are  the  only  outstanding  things  he's  got.  We  laugh.  We  laugh  some  more.  He  shakes  his  head  and  leaves.  I  curse  him  under  my  breath.  I  close  up  early  and  return  to  my  lonely  home.  HE  next  day  Mrs.  Gaither  from  Corporate  comes  to  town.  Mid-  way  through  my  Significant  Accom-  plishments  Assessment,  armless  Mr.  Feltriggi  comes  to  the  door  and,  as  usual,  rings  the  bell  with  his  face.  I  let  him  in  and  he  shrugs  off  his  tote  bag  of  cookbooks  for  sale.  Today  it's  &quot;Crazy  Cajun  Carnival&quot;  and  &quot;Going  Bananas  with  Bananas:  A  Caribbean  Primer.&quot;  But  I  know  what  he  really  wants.  With  my  eyes  I  tell  him  wait.  Finally  Gaither  finishes  raking  my  subpar  Disbursement  Ledger  over  the  coals,  and  goes  across  the  mall  to  O  My  God  for  some  vintage  religious  statuary.  I  slip  the  headset  on  Feltriggi  and  run  Youth  Roams  [REDACTED]  Home  Town,  1932.  It's  all  homemade  bread  and  dirt  roads  and  genial  dog-  catchers.  What  a  sweet  grin  appears.  He  greets  each  home-towner  with  his  ghost  limbs  and  beams  at  the  chirping  of  the  holographic  birds.  He  kneels  awhile  in  Mrs.  Lawler's  larder,  sniffing  spices  that  remind  him  of  his  mother  elbow-deep  in  flour.  He  drifts  out  to  the  shaded  yard  and  discusses  Fascism  with  the  iceman  near  some  swaying  wheat.  His  posture  changes  for  the  better.  He  laughs  aloud.  He's  young  again,  and  the  thresher  has  yet  to  claim  his  arms.  Gaither  comes  out  of  O  My  God  and  heads  for  my  shopwith  a  St.  Sebastian  cookie  jar.  I  nudge  Feltriggi  and  tell  him  that's  all  for  today.  He  takes  off  the  headset  and  offers  me  a  cookbook  in  payment.  I  tell  him  forget  it.  I  tell  him  that's  what  friends  are  for.  It's  seventy  bucks  asession  and  he  knows  it.  He  rams  his  head  into  my  chest  as  a  sign  of  affection.  &quot;That  type  of  a  presence  surely  acts  to  deflate  revenues,&quot;  Gaither  says  primly  as  Feltriggi  goes  out.  &quot;No  lie,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;That's  why  I  beat  him  up  every  time  he  comes  in  here.&quot;  &quot;I'm  not  sure  that's  appropriate,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;Me  neither,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;That's  why  I  usually  don't  really  do  it.&quot;  &quot;I  see,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;Let's  talk  briefly " b" about  personal  tragedy.  No  one's  im-  mune.  But  at  what  point  must  mourn-  ing  cease?  In  your  case,  apparently  never.&quot;  I  think,  You  never  saw  Elizabeth  lanky  and  tan  and  laughing  in  Napa  Val-  ley.  What  you  know  about  lost  love  could  fit  on  the  head  of  a  pin.  &quot;I  like  your  cookie  jar,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;Very  well,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;Seal  your  own  doom.&quot;  She's  shocked  at  the  dryness  of  my  treadmill  bearings  and  asks  if  I've  ever  heard  of  oil.  She  sighs  and  gives  me  her  number  at  the  Quality  Inn  in  case  I  think  of  anything  that  might  argue  against  Franchise  Agreement  Cancella-  tion.  Then  out  she  goes,  sadly  shaking  her  head.  It's  only  my  livelihood.  It's  only  every  cent  Elizabeth  left  me.  I  load  up  my  mo-  bile  pack.  I  select  my  happiest  modules.  Then  I  go  off  to  my  real  job,  my  pen-  ance,  my  albatross.  OCKETTOWN'S  our  ghetto.  It's  called  Rockettown  because  long  ago  they  put  up  a  building  there  in  which  to  make  rockets.  But  none  were  built,  and  the  building's  now  nothing,  which  is  what  it  has  always  been,  except  fora  fenced-off  dank  corner  that  was  once  used  to  store  dilapidated  fireplugs  and  is  now  a  filthy  day-care  for  the  children  of  parents  who  couldn't  care  less.  All  around  Rockettown  little  houses  went  up  when  it  was  thought  that  the  build-  ing  would  soon  be  full  of  people  making  rockets  and  hauling  down  impressive  wages.  They're  bad  little  houses,  put  up  quick,  and  now  all  the  people  who  were  young  and  had  hoped  to  work  on  rock-  ets  are  old  and  doddering  and  walk  by  the  empty  building  mumbling  why  why  why.  In  the  early  days  of  my  grief,  Father  Luther  told  me  to  lose  myself  in  ser-  vice  by  contacting  Elder  Aid,  Inc.  I  got  Mrs.  Ken  Schwartz.  Mrs.  Ken  Schwartz  lives  in  Rockettown.  She  lives  there  remembering  Mr.  Ken  Schwartz  and,  on  nights  when  she  forgets  he's  been  dead  for  eighteen  years,  curs-  ing  him  for  staying  so  late  at  Menlo's  Ten-Pin.  Mrs.  Ken  Schwartz  likes  me  and  my  happy  mod-  ules.  Especially  she  likes  Viennese  Waltz.  Boy,  does  she.  She  is  bedrid-     den  and  lonely  and  sometimes  in  her  ex-  citement  bruises  her  arms  on  her  head-  board  when  the  orchestra  starts  to  play.  Tonight  she  says  she's  feeling  weak.  She  says  she  used  to  be  a  different  person  and  wishes  she  could  go  back  to  the  days  when  she  was  loved.  She  mourns  Fat  Patrice  and  their  jovial  games  of  Old  Maid.  She  mourns  the  front-yard  oak  the  city  felled  without  asking  her.  Mostly  she  mourns  Mr.  Ken  Schwartz.  I  pull  out  all  the  stops.  I  set  Color  on  high  contrast.  I  tape  sensors  to  her  lips  and  earlobes.  I  activate  the  Royalty  Subroutine.  Soon  the  prince  is  lavishing  her  with  compliments.  Soon  they're  sneaking  off  from  the  ball  for  some  tender  words  and  a  kiss  or  two  on  a  stone  bench  beside  the  Danube.  Soon  I'm  daubing  her  eyes  with  tissue  while  she  weeps  at  the  beauty  of  the  fishermen  bowing  from  their  little  boats  as  they  realize  it's  the  prince  himself  trying  to  retrieve  her  corsage  from  the  river.  I  make  tea.  I  read  my  magazine.  Final-  lyI  stroke  her  forehead  while  humming  Strauss  and  slowly  fading  the  volume.  &quot;You,&quot;  she  says,  smiling  sweetly  when  she's  all  the  way  back.  &quot;You're  too  good  to  me.&quot;  &quot;No  one  could  be  too  good  to  you,&quot;  Isay.  &quot;Oh,  you,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;You're  a  saint.&quot;  No,  I  think,  I'm  a  man  without  a  life,  due  to  you.  Then  I  feel  ashamed  and  purposely  bash  my  shin  against  the  bed  frame  while  tucking  her  in.  I  get  her  some  juice.  I  check  her  back-door  lock.  All  around  the  room  are  dirty  dishes  I've  once  again  failed  to  get  to  the  sink.  On  the  walls  are  old  photos  of  Mr.  Ken  Schwartz  assessing  the  condition  of  massive  boilers  while  laughing  con-  fidently.  Out  on  the  street  it's  cold,  and  a  wino's  standing  in  a  dumpster  calling  a  stray  cat  Uncle  Chuck.  I  hustle  directly  to  my  Omni,  fearing  for  my  gear.  I  drive  through  frightening  quarters  of  the  city,  nervously  toggling  my  defrost  lever,  thinking  of  Mrs.  Ken  Schwartz.  Origi-  nally  I  saw  her  once  a  week,  but  the  last  few  months  shehas  gone  badly  downhill.  She's  unable  to  feed  her-  self  or  autonomously  use  the  bathroom.  Talk  about  losing  yourself  in  service  to  a  greater  ex-  tent  than  planned.  I'm     " b"over  there  night  and  dayand  still  it's  not  enough.  She  needs  a  live-in,  but  they  don't  come  cheap,  and  my  shop  hasn't  turned  a  profit  in  months.  What  to  do?  I  think  and  think.  I  think  so  much  I  lose  track  of  where  I  am  and  blunder  by  The  Spot.  You  fool,  I  think-you  ass,  how  much  additional  pain  would  you  like?  Here  a  drunk  named  Tom  Clifton  brought  his  Coupe  de  [REDACTED]  onto  the  sidewalk  as  Elizabeth  shopped  for  fruit  on  the  evening  of  a  day  when  we'd  fought  like  hell.  On  the  evening  of  a  day  when  I'd  called  her  an  awful  name.  What  name?  I  can't  say  the  word.  I  even  think  it  and  my  gut  burns.  I'm  a  saint.  The  fight  started  when  I  accused  her  of  flirting  with  our  neighbor  Len  Kobb  by  bending  low  on  purpose.  I  was  angry,  and  implied  that  she  couldn't  keep  her  boobs  in  her  top  to  save  her  life.  If  I  could  see  her  one  last  time  I'd  say,  Thanks  very  much  for  dying  at  the  worst  possible  moment  and  leaving  me  hold-  ing  the  bag  of  guilt.  I'd  say,  If  you  had  to  die,  couldn't  you  have  done  it  when  we  were  getting  along?  I  madly  flee  The  Spot.  There  are  boat  lights  in  the  harbor  and  a  man  in  a  tux  inexplicably  jogging  through  the  park.  here's  a  moon  bobbing  up  between  condemned  buildings.  There's  the  fact  that  tomorrow  I'm  Lay  Authority  Guest  at  the  Lyndon  Baines  Johnson  School  for  Precocious  Youth.  I'm  slated  to  allow  interested  kids  to  experiencethe  module  entitled  Hop-Hop  the  Bunny  Masters  Fractions.  Frankly  I  fear  I'll  be  sneered  at.  How  interested  could  a  mob  of  gifted  kids  be  in  a  rabbit  and  a  lisping  caterpil-  lar  subdividing  acorns  ad  nauseum?  But  I've  promised  the  principal,  Mrs.  Briff.  And  I'm  not  in  a  position  to  decline  any  revenue  source.  So  at  an  hour  of  the  night  when  other  men  my  age  are  rising  from  their  beds  to  comfort  screaming  newborns  I  return  to  themall  for  my  Hop-Hop  module.  I  use  my  pass  key.  Something  is  strange.  Modules  are  strewn  every-  where.  The  cashbox  sits  on  the  fax  ma-  chine.  One  of  my  treadmills  lies  on  its  side.  &quot;How  is  all  this  fancy  equipment  used?&quot;  someone  asks  from  behind  me,  pressing  a  sharp  knife  to  my  throat.  &quot;More  specifically,  which  of  it  is  worth  the  most?  And  remember,  sir,  you're  an-  swering  for  your  life.&quot;  He  sounds  old  but  feels  strong.  I  tell  him  it's  hard  to  explain.  I  offer  to  dem-  onstrate.  He  says  do  so,  but  slowly.  I  fit  him  with  a  headset.  I  gently  guide  him  to  a  treadmill,  then  run  Sexy  Nurses  Scrub  You  Down.  Immediately  his  lips  get  moist.  Immediately  he  pops  a  mild  bone  and  loosens  his  grip  on  the  knife, " b"and  I'm  able  to  coldcock  him  with  the  FedEx  tape  gun.  He  drops,  drooling,  to  my  nice  carpet.  A  man  his  age  should  be  a  doting  grandfather,  not  a  crook  threatening  me  with  death.  I  feel  vio-  lated.  Such  a  man  was  Tom  Clifton,  past  his  prime  and  bitter.  How  does  someone  come  to  this?  I'm  curious.  I  strap  him  down,  and  set  my  console  for  Scan.  It  seems  his  lousy  name  is  Hank.  I  hear  his  portly  father  calling  it  out  across  a  cranberry  bog.  I  know  the  smell  of  his  first  baseball  cap.  Through  his  eyes  I  see  the  secret  place  beneath  the  porch  where  he  hid  whenever  his  fat  kissing  aunt  came.  Later  I  sense  him  de-  veloping  a  love  for  swing.  It  seems  he  was  a  Marine  at  Iwo  Jima  who  on  his  way  to  boot  camp  saw  the  aging  Ty  Cobb  at  a  depot.  I  sense  his  panic  on  the  troop  transport,  then  quickly  doff  my  headset  as  he  hits  the  beach  and  the  bul-  lets  start  to  fly.  To  my  horror,  I  see  that  his  eyelids  are  fluttering  and  his  face  is  contorting  asbits  of  his  life  fly  byand  he  re\xc3\xa9xperiences  them.  My  God-this  is  no  Scan,  this  is  a  damn  Offload.  I  check  the  console,  and,  sure  enough,  via  one  incor-  rect  switch  setting  I've  just  irrevocably  transferred  a  good  third  of  his  memories  to  my  hard  drive.  When  he  comes  to,  hehops  off  the  table  looking  years  younger,  suddenly  happy-  go-lucky,  asks  where  he  is,  and  trots  blithely  out  the  door,  free  now  of  boot  camp,  free  of  Iwo,  free  of  all  memory  of  youthful  slaughter,  free  in  fact  of  any  memory  at  all  of  the  first  twenty  years  of  his  life.  I'm  heartsick.  What  have  I  done?  On  the  other  hand,  it  stopped  him  from  getting  up  and  trying  to  kill  me.  On  the  other  hand,  it  appears  he  left  here  a  hap-  pier  man,  and  perhaps  less  inclined  to  felony.  I  grab  the  Hop-Hop  module.  On  the  cover  is  Hop-Hop,  enthusiastically  giv-  ing  the  thumbs-up  to  an  idealized  blond  boy  lifting  an  enormous4  into  a  nu-  merator.  As  if  being  robbed  weren't  enough,  first  thing  tomorrow  morning  a  roomful  of  genius  kids  is  going  to  eat  me  alive.     THE  NEW  YORKER,  OCTOBER  5,  1992  Then,  crossing  the  deserted  Food  Court,  I  get  abrainstorm.  I  hustle  back  to  the  shop  and  edit  out  Hank's  trysts  with  starving  women  in  Depression-era  hobo  camps  and  his  one  homo  fling  with  his  cousin  Julian.  I  edit  the  profanity  out  of  Iwo.  I  edit  out  the  midnight  wanks,  the  petty  thefts,  the  unkind  words,  all  but  the  most  in-  offensive  of  thebodies  of  his  buddies  on  the  pale  sand  of  the  beach.  The  next  morning,  after  clearing  it  with  Briff,  I  herd  kid  after  kid  behind  my  white  curtain  and  let  them  experi-  ence  Hank's  life.  They  love  it.  They  leave  jabbering  knowledgeably  about  the  Pacific  Theatre  and  theultimate  wisdom  of  using  the  Bomb.  They  leave  hum-  ming  &quot;556e6974656420537461746573n  Patrol.&quot;  They  leave  praising  Phil  Rizzuto's  fielding  and  curs,  ing  the  Brown  Shirts.  They  pat  old  Mr.  Panchuko,  the  geriatric  janitor,  on  the  back  and  ask  him  what  calibre  machine  gun  he  operated  at  the  Bulge.  He  stands  scratching  his  gut,  stunned,  trying  to  re-  member.  The  little  Klotchkow  twins  jit,  terbug.  Andy  Pitlin,  all  of  three  feet  tall,  hankers  aloud  for  a  Camel.  Mrs.  Briff  is  more  than  impressed.  She  asks  what  else  do  I  have.  I  ask  what  else  does  she  want.  She  says,  for  starters  how  about  the  remainder  of  the  cen-  tury.  I  tell  her  I'll  see  what  I  can  do.  The  kids  come  out  of  it  with  a  firsthand  War  Years  experience,  and  I  come  out  of  it  with  a  check  for  five  hundred  dollars,  enough  tohire  a  temporary  live-in  for  Mrs.  Ken  Schwartz.  Which  I  gladly  do.  A  lovely  Eurasian  named  Wei,  a  student  of  astro-  physics,  who,  as  I'm  leav-  ing  them  alone  for  the  first  time,  is  brushing  out  Mrs.  Ken  Schwartz's  hair  and  humming  &quot;Let  Me  Call  You  Sweetheart.&quot;  &quot;Will  you  stay  forever?&quot;  I  ask  her.  &quot;With  all  due  respect,&quot;  she  replies,  &quot;I  will  stay  as  long  as  you  can  pay  me.&quot;     wo  weeks  later,  Briff's  on  my  tail  for  more  modules  and  Wei's  on  my  tail  for  her  pay.  I  tell  Mrs.  Ken  Schwartz  all,  during  one  of  her  fifteen-  minute  windows  of  lucidity.  When  lu-  cid,  she's  shrewd  and  bright.  She  under-  " b"OFFLOADING  FOR  MRS,  SCHWARTZ  stands  her  predicament.  She  under-  stands  the  limitations  of  my  gear:  I  can't  borrow  her  memories;  I  can  only  take  them  away  forever.  She  says  she  can  live  without  the  sixties.  I  haul  my  stuff  over  to  her  place  and  take  what  I  need.  I  edit  outher  mastec-  tomy,  Ken  Schwartz's  mid-life  crisis  and  resulting  trip  to  [REDACTED],  and  her  con-  stant  drinking  in  his  absence.  I  stick  to  her  walking  past  a  protest  and  counsel-  ling  a  skinny  girl  on  acid  to  stay  in  school.  It's  not  great,  but  I've  got  a  deadline.  I  call  it  [REDACTED]  in  Tumult-The  Older  Generation  Looks  On  in  Dismay.  I  have  it  couriered  over  to  Briff,  dreading  her  re-  sponse.  But,  to  my  amaze-  ment,  she  sends  a  cash  bo-  nus.  She  reports  astound-  ing  increases  in  grand-  parental  bonding.  She  re-  ports  kids  identifying  a  Mercury  Cougar  with  no  prompting  and  disgustedly  calling  each  other  Nixon  whenever  a  trust  is  betrayed.  Thereafter  I  retain  Wei  on  a  weekly  basis  by  whittling  away  at  Mrs.  Schwartz's  memories.  I  submit  Pearl  Harbor-Week  Prior  to  Infamy.  I  sub-  mit  The  Day  the  Music  Died-Buddy  Holly  Remembered,  which  un-  fortunately  is  merely  Mrs.  Schwartz  hearing  the  news  on  a  pink  radio,  then  uninterestedly  going  back  to  cleaning  her  oven.  Finally  Briff  calls,  hacked  off.  She  says  she  wants  some  real  meat.  She  asks  how  about  the  entire  twenties,  a  personal  favorite  of  hers.  She's  talking  flappers.  She's  talking  possible  insights  on  Prohibition.  I  stonewall.  I  tell  her  to  give  me  a  few  days  to  exhaustively  check  my  massive  archive.  I  call  Mrs.  Ken  Schwartz.  She  says  during  the  twenties  she  was  a  lowly  phone  operator  in  Pekin,  [REDACTED].  She  sounds  disoriented  and  wearily  asks  where  her  breasts  are.  Clearly  this  has  gone  far  enough.  I  call  Briff  and  tell  her  no  more  mod-  ules.  She  ups  her  offer  to  three  thousand  a  decade.  She's  running  for  school  board  and  says  my  modules  are  the  primary  ar-  row  in  her  quiver.  But  what  am  I  sup-  posed  to  do?  Turn  Mrs.  Schwartz  into  a  well-cared-for  blank  slate?  Start  kidnap-  ping  and  offloading  strangers?  I  say  a     little  prayer:  God,  I've  botched  this  life  butgood.  I've  failed  you  in  all  major  ways.  You  gave  me  true  love,  and  I  blew  it.  I'm  nothing.  But  what  have  you  got  against  Mrs.  Ken  Schwartz?  I  humble  myself  beforeyou.  Forgive  me.  Help  me  figure  this  out.  And  then  in  a  flash  I  figure  it  out.  I  lock  the  shop.  On  thespine  of  a  blank  module  I  write  1951-92-Baby  Boomers  Come  Into  Their  Own.  At  three  thousand  a  decade,  that's  twelve  grand.  I  address  an  envelope  to  Briff  and  enclose  an  invoice.  I  write  out  some  in-  structions  and  rig  myself  up.  Memories  shmemories,  I  think,  I'll  get  some  new  ones.  These  old  ones  give  me  no  peace.  I  take  a  deep  breath,  then  hit  the  crucial  switch  and  let  it  rip.  It's  gradual.  It's  painless.  It  all  goes  whizzing  by:  Anthony  Newburg  smacking  me.  Mom  on  the  dock.  An  Agnew  Halloween  mask  at  a  frat  house.  Bev  Malloy  struggling  with  my  belt.  The  many  seasons.  The  many  flags,  dogs,  paths,  the  many  stars  in  skies  of  many  hues.  My  sweet  Elizabeth.  Holding  hands  we  gape  at  an  elk  in  Estes  Park.  On  our  knees  in  a  bed  of  tu-  lips  I  kiss  her  cheek.  The  cold  clear  wa-  ter  of  Nacogdoches.  The  birthday  ban-  nershe  made  of  scarvesin  our  little  place  on  Ellington  Street.  The  awful  look  on  her  face  asI  called  her  what  I  calledher.  Her  hair,  trailing  fine  and  light  behind  her  as  she  stormed  out  to  buy  fruit.  The  grave,  the  grave,  my  sad  attempt  to  become  a  franchisee.  'M  a  paunchy  man  in  a  room,  with  a  note  pinned  to  his  sleeve:  &quot;You  were  alone  in  the  world,&quot;  the  note  says,  &quot;and  did  a  kindness  for  someone  in  need.  Good  for  you.  Now  post  this  module,  and  follow  this  map  to  the  home  ofMrs.  Ken  Schwartz.  Care  for  her  with  some  big  money  that  will  come  in  the  mail.  Find  someone  to  love.  Your  heart  has  never  been  broken.  You've  never  done  anything  unforgivable  or  hurt  anyone  beyond  reparation.  Ev-  eryone  you've  ever  loved  you've  treated  like  gold.&quot; "