 FACULTY  LOUNGE  SURVEILLANCE  TAPES  (Wear  tur  Epuvcarion  Presipency  Has  Bern  ListrEninc  To)  &quot;Talk  about  right  and  wrong,  and  they'll  try  to  mock  us  in  newsrooms,  sitcom  studios  and  faculty  lounges  across  America.&quot;  B.I.  Fire:  FL-1  F  Time:  10  a.m.  \xc2\xae  Place:  RaventTr  Facuuty  LouncrE,  Mulberry  Street,  [REDACTED]  Participants:  Mr.  Gott  Mr.  Gravano  Mr.  Locascro  Mr.  Gott:  Incudible.  Mr.  Gravano:  Faint,  smirk-like  sounds.  Mr.  Locascro:  Snort  of  amusement.  Mr.  Gott:  Cynical  laugh.  (Flicking  noise  commonly  associated  with  scoffiaw  hand  gesture.)  Mr.  Gott::  Long  stream  of  derisive  laughter.  (Indistinct  sounds  of  sociopathic  buffoonery.)  Mr.  Gravano:  Butt-of-joke-type  silence.  Mr.  Got::  Short  bark  of  laughter  edged  with  contempt.  Mr.  Gravano  and  Mr.  Locasero:  Simultaneous  coughing  fits  laced  with  ridicule  of  Judeo-Christian  values.     -Vice-President  Dan  Quayle.  B.I.  FL-96  &lt;  Time:  3:45p.m.  Place:  V.LP.  Facurry  Louncr,  O'Hare  Airport,  [REDACTED]  Participants:  Mr.  Peepers  Mr.  Novar  Mr.  KouTrer  Miss  BropiE  Mr.  CHuirps  Miss  Brooks  Sir  Pror.  KinosriELD  (Sounds  of  popping  champagne  corks,  clinking  glasses,  and  shifting  of  weight  on  leather  upholstery.)  Pusurc  Appress  SystEm:  Now  boarding,  Gate  17,  Flight  723  non-  stop  to  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED].  Mr.  Pegpers:  Tim-ber-r-r-r-r-rrrr!  Mr.  Novar:  Smutty  lough.  Mr.  KoTtrEr  (snide  falsetto):  Now  taking  off  without  you,  Gate  Number  I-don't-know-because-I-never-learned-  to-read-write-or-count-to-ten,  Flight  Number  who-gives-a-flying-corncob,  bound  for  Jerkwater,  [REDACTED]  Bootk   Miss  Broptr  and  Mr.  CHips:  Pe-  tronizing  titters.  P.A.  System:  Will  Mr.  Akira  Ikiru  please  pick  up  the  free  phone  at  the  information  center.  Mr.  Akira  Tkiru  ...  Miss  Brooks:  Serdonmic  jeer.  Mr.  Nova:  Will  Mr.  Jimenez  Jimenez  Jimenez  please  contact  the  nearest  Coast  Guard  Patrol  for  moral  rearmament,  afree  bag  of  nuclear  waste,  and  a  one-way  ticket  to  no-  where.  Sir:  Flamboyant  West  Indian-type  laugh  with  provocative  subtext  of  dis-  respect  for  white  people.  P.A.  System:  Ready  for  pre-board-  ing  now,  Gate  22,  passengers  with  small  children  or  needing  special  as-  sistance,  Flight  926  to  Jerusalem,  with  stopovers  in  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  and  Los  Angeles.  Pror.  KinasrrELD  (malicious  pause):  If  it's  Tuesday,  this  must  be  arson.  (Jolly  good  laugh  all  round.)  BI.  Fire:  FL-11,715  &lt;  Time:  2  a.m.  Place:  &quot;Tus  Facurty  Louno\xc2\xae&quot;  LOUNGE,  Caesars  Palace,  556e6974656420537461746573Participants:  Mr.  Youngman  MixEp  EnsemsLr  Mr.  YounNGmaN  (trademark  stac-  cato  laugh):  So  good  night  and  thank  you,  ladies  and  germs.  Hrexuier  #1:  I've  had  funnier  Medi-  care  forms!  Mr.  Youngman:  And  now  please  welcome  the  band  with  a  warm  round  of  heckling.  HroxruiEr  #2:  I'm  not  making  enough  money!  (Silence.)  Facurty  Lounor  Brass  QuintEr:  Motley  warmup  blats  and  hoots.  TrumrET  razz,  answered  by  raspberry-type  spit  take  from  \xc3\xa9litist  Fuugritmorn.  [REDACTED]  cheer  from  Tusa.  Stipe  TromsonE  repeats  offensive  slurs  underneath  all  this,  building  to  crow  of  brazen  defiance  from  Hrcrrirr  #3:  You  sound  like  a  bunch  of  junkies  in  the  pay  toilet!  (Band  laugh.)  (Silence.)  Facurty  Lounce  Brass  Quintet:  Improvisation  on  John  Philip  Sousa's  &quot;The  Stars  and  Stripes  Forever,&quot;  played  as  a  slow,  urgent  blues.  -V  rronica  Grnc  "