 DISAPPEARED  \xc2\xab  OOK  at  my  life,&quot;  Fontane  said.  L  She  clutched  her  robe  together  below  her  neck.  Fontane  was  a  thin,  lithe  woman  with  springy  black  curls  that  lay  close  to  her  scalp.  Even  in  grief  she  was  beautiful,  like  a  piece  of  sculpture  in  the  rain.  &quot;It's  as  if  I'm  being  punished  for  killing  people  in  another  life.&quot;  &quot;I  know,  I  know.&quot;  Leila  Pinkerton  sprinkled  sweetener  into  a  glass  of  iced  tea.  &quot;There's  no  explaining  it.&quot;  &quot;Why  would  the  Lord  give  me  two  children  if  He  was  going  to  take  them  away&quot;&quot;  &quot;I'm  sure  Hiram  is  all  right,&quot;  Leila  said,  hoping  Fontane  wouldn't  get  angry  at  the  ease  with  which  hope  poured  from  her  mouth.  Leila  had  never  had  children  herself,  and  was  well  past  the  age  for  it.  &quot;I  just  know  it  in  here.&quot;  She  pointed  to  her  heart.  &quot;It's  only  been  three  days.  He  could  have  amnesia,he  could  have  gotten  lost.&quot;  She  stoppedbe-  fore  saying  that  he  could  have  run  away.  What  would  he  be  running  away  from?  Leila  Pinkerton  and  Fontane  W  hit-  ley  were  as  close  to  friendship  as  they  could  get,  given  that  Leila  was  white,  Fontane  was  black,  and  they  lived  in  a  world  full  of  people  who  claimed  to  know  what  that  meant.  They  came  together  in  crisis,  like  an  emergency-  room  team.  At  other  times,  a  formality  neither  of  them  had  created  restrained  them,  driving  them  back  into  their  separate  shells.  They  trusted  each  other  hesitantly,  the  way  you  trust  a  relative  you've  heard  bad  things  about  since  childhood  but  who  has  always  treated  you  with  the  utmost  kindness.  Fontane  began  weep-  ing  again.  Leila  put  an  arm  around  her  and  squeezed  her  shoulder.  &quot;Did  you  search  his  room?&quot;  Fontane's  eyes  caught  fire.  &quot;Do  you  think  I'm  an  idiot?  We  tore  the  house  apart,  looking  for  a  note.&quot;  &quot;I'm  sorry.  I  know  you  did.  I  thought  you  did.&quot;  l  &quot;If  this  is  some  prank  of  his,  I'm  going  to  kill  him  when  he  gets  home.&quot;  She  laughed  at  herself;  then  she  began  to  cry  again.  &quot;''There  was  nothing  missing  from  his  room?&quot;  &quot;&quot;Not  that  I  noticed.&quot;  Fontane  stirred  and  sat  upright.  &quot;Like  a  favorite  book  or  toy,  his  sneakers?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  think  so.&quot;  But  as  she  said  it,  Fontane  stood  and  began  walking  up  the  stairs,  and  Leila  followed.  Leila  had  never  seen  Hiram's  room,  and  it  wasn't  at  all  the  way  she  would  have  pictured  it.  It  was  futuristic,  like  the  insideof  a  spaceship.  &quot;Handsome,&quot;  she  said,  lookingaround.  One  wall,  covered  with  black  corkboard,  had  posters  from  the  video  store  thumb-  tacked  all  over  it,  and  four  intricate  circuit  boards  hanging  from  hooks.  Shelves  spray-painted  silver  held  books  and  magazines  jammed  in  at  all  angles,  including  a  few  Leila  had  given  Hiram.  She  believed  reading  kept  the  mind  sharp,  and  she  liked  to  turn  a  phrase  herself.  She'd  rearrange  a  thought  or  observation  in  her  head  until  she  got  it  just  right,  as  if  she  intended  to  write  it  down,  though  she  never  did.  Her  favorite  author  was  Mark  Twain.  &quot;I  fought  the  beer  sign.&quot;  Fontane  pointed  over  Hiram's  desk  to  a  Miller  High  Life  neon  sign  with  a  whale  spouting  a  bright-blue  plume  of  water.  &quot;Thatwas  a  birthday  gift  from  Day-  ton.&quot;  Dayton  was  Hiram's  father.  He  had  refused  to  marry  Fontane  when  she  got  pregnant  at  seventeen,  and  had  left  town  two  months  after  Hiram  was  born.  Leila  felt  Hiram's  absence  more  here  than  she  had  downstairs.  Stuffedani-  mals,  model  planes,  an  afghan  draped  across  the  foot  of  the  bed:  without  their  owner,  the  objects  seemed  forlorn.  She  remembered  sorting  through  her  husband's  clothes  after  he  died.  She  had  felt  sad  and  then  had  fallen  into  a  rage.  Colonel  Pinkerton's  ties  and  shirts  were  uncooperative  messengers,  not  the  measure  of  the  man  buta  pile  of  anonymous  hand-me-downs.  It  re-  minded  her  of  what  happened  when  Claude  Rains  removed  his  suit  and  unwound  the  bandages  from  his  hands  and  face.  There  was  nothing  left  but  hiscigarette  and  the  desperation  in  his  voice.  &quot;Is  it  O.K.  if  I  look  in  here?&quot;  Leila's  hand  hovered  at  the  pull  of  the  center  desk  drawer.  Fontane  began  to  rummage  through  gouver  AUGUST  17,  1992  the  bureau.  &quot;Yes,  oh  yes,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You  can  look  anywhere  at  all.&quot;  HIRAM  Wurriey,  aged  twelve,  had  beenmissing  officially  since  Monday.  On  the  noon  news  that  day,  Hiram  had  been  described  as  a  slender  black  boy,  five  feet  two  inches  tall,  last  seen  on  Sunday  morning  at  home  wearing  a  T-shirt  and  pajama  bot-  toms,  Leila,  who  lived  next  door  to  the  Whitleys,  was  no  alarmist.  Having  no  children  herself,  she  had  nothing  to  relate  Hiram's  disappearance  to  but  her  own  childhood,  so  long  ago.  In  those  days,  instead  of  sassing,  children  often  ran  away  from  home  or  vanished  into  the  woods  for  a  day.  She'd  never  known  of  one  who  hadn't  come  back.  'She  imagined  that  Hiram  was  off  hunting  squirrels  with  the  [REDACTED]  gun  his  father,  Dayton,  had  given  him,  or  exploring  the  bat  caves  formed  by  the  interstate  crossing  Bellamy  [REDACTED].  But  Fontane  and  Evan  Whitley,  Hiram's  stepfather,  were  more  modern,  and,  Leila  supposed,  more  realistic.  They  were  half  out  of  their  minds  withworry.  No  doubt  they  were  think-  ing  of  the  little  girl  who  was  kidnapped  last  year  from  a  department  storein  Palm  Beach  and  then  murdered.  The  killer  was  never  found.  That  had  happened  three  hundred  and  fifty  miles  to  the  south,  in  the  glittery,  crime-  ridden  part  of  [REDACTED],  whichseemed  a  crazed  foreign  country  compared  to  Bellamy  County.  Bellamy  Countyhad  hummed  along  for  more  than  a  hundred  years  on  lumber  mills,  tobacco,  cattle,  and  truck  farms.  The  town  of  Wac-  casassa  was  atransparent  place,  like  a  piece  of  old  glass  with  impurities  in  it.  Its  inhabitants  had  long  ago  accommo-  dated  themselves  to  its  flaws.  They  had  their  troubles,  like  people  everywhere.  There  were  bar  fights  and  conve-  nience-store  robberies,  but  Leila  had  never  heard  of  a  child's  being  snatched  and  murdered  in  Bellamy  County.  &quot;Have  you  got  any  notion  at  all  where  Hiram  might  be?&quot;  Fontane  had  asked  her  onSunday  afternoon,  when  she  first  discovered  Hiram  was  miss-  ing.  Hiram  had  made  himself  scarce  right  after  breakfast,  Fontane  said,  probably  to  avoid  his  stepfather's  weekly  attempt  to  persuade  him  to  go  to  church.  &quot;'The  last  I  saw  him  was  yesterday,  when  he  did  the  yard  for  me,&quot;  Leila  said.  It  had  been  overcast  and  windy  on  Saturday,  and  the  whole  time  Hiram  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  was  cutting  her  grass  she  had  worried  about  lightning,  staring  through  the  window  as  the  mower  slowly  peeled  narrow  swaths  of  lawn  from  dark  to  pale  green.  &quot;I'm  sure  he'll  turn  up  by  supper.&quot;  &quot;I  tried  to  call  Dayton,  but  wouldn't  you  know  it,  his  phone's  been  discon-  nected,&quot;  Fontane  said.  According  to  Fontane,  she  and  Dayton  had  been  on  good  terms  only  for  the  amount  of  time  it  took  to  conceive  Hiram.  After  Fontane  left,  Leila  got  into  her  old  white  Valiant  and  drove  over  to  Vern's  Kwik  Stop,  where  kids  often  hung  out  to  play  video  games  and  read  comic  books.  Then  she  tried  the  middle-  school  playground.  She  stopped  for  a  glass  of  iced  decaf  at  Sinrod  Drugs,  swivelling  slowly  on  her  counter  stool  as  she  tried  to  put  herself-a  plump,  sixty-eight-year-old,  white  woman-  in  Hiram's  place,  tried  to  divine  his  whereabouts.  Leila  had  run  away  once,  but  she  was  nearly  an  adult  at  the  time.  It  was  during  the  war,  and  the  Colonel  was  being  sent  to  an  island  in  the  Pacific  that  was  so  small  it  wasn't  on  the  big  globe  at  her  teachers'  college.  They  spent  his  last  weekend  pass  in  a  motel  room  in  Myrtle  Beach.  Her  parents  didn't  approve  of  the  Colonel.  Too  impulsive,  they  said.  Reckless.  White  trash  was  what  they  meant.  He  had  a  thick  north-[REDACTED]  drawl  and  he  was  big  and  raw-boned  andhad  crooked  front  teeth.  She  loved  him,  she  remem-  bered,  she  loved  him  so  much  that  just  seeing  the  golden  hairs  bristling  on  his  arms  made  her  feel  safe.  And  then,  after  forty-three  years,  he  had  disap-  peared  into  the  earth  as  if  he  had  never  existed.  BY  Monday,  the  W  hitleys  were  fran-  tic.  Mr.  Whitley  stayed  home  from  the  lumbermill  where  he  was  a  foreman  to  be  with  Fontane.  It  was  especially  trying  for  them,  coming  so  soon  after  the  death  of  their  six-year-  old,  Beckah,  who  had  succumbed  the  year  before  to  leukemia.  AN  Anicrt  Came  to  Eartnu  anp  Toor  tur  Frowrr  Away,  Beckah's  headstone  said.  The  cemetery  was  at  the  end  of  two  miles  of  washboard  road.  Beckah's  first-grade  teacher  and  Leila  were  the  only  white  people  at  the  funeral.  Leila  remembered  the  smell  of  freshly  turned  clay,  and  Mr.  andMrs.  Whitley  stand-  ing  in  front  of  the  small  coffin.  Hiram  had  patted  his  mother's  arm  and  tried  to  act  like  a  grownup  man,  but  Mr.  Whitley  dropped  to  his  knees  and  began  rocking  back  and  forth,  sobbing,  &quot;Lord,  O  Lord,  you  took  her  away.&quot;  Fontane  knelt  down  and  wrapped  herself  around  her  husband.  Hiram  had  stood  behind  them,  suddenly  tall  and  alone.  Leila  believed  that  Fontane  had  married  Evan  Whitley  out  of  spite,  to  get  even  with  Dayton  for  leaving  her.  Evan  was  upstanding  and  proper.  Once,  at  a  Fourth  of  July  street  party,  Leila  had  asked  him  to  call  her  by  her  first  name  instead  of  Mrs.  Pinkerton.  He  had  raised  his  index  finger  to  his  eye  and  rubbed  it  and  blinked  repeatedly,  as  if  a  gnat  were  trapped  in  his  lashes.  Dayton,  on  the  other  hand,  was  the  kind  of  colorful,  lying,  energetic  man  whom  adults  saw  right  through  and  children  adored.  Hiram  adored  him.  When  Dayton  visited,  he  was  extrava-  gantly  attentive.  Then  no  one  heard  a  word  from  him  for  six  months.  He  drove  a  hot  rod  with  airbrushed  flames  licking  the  fenders  and  the  rear  end  hiked  up  like  a  scorpion's  tail.  He  never  had  money,  though  he  always  had  some  kind  of  recent  good  time  he  could  tell  you  about.  For  Dayton,  charm  was  a  means  of  locomotion,  like  a  swift  pair  of  legs.  When  Hiram  was  five  or  six,  Day-  ton  started  bringing  his  women  around.  Leila  had  overheard  some  nasty  argu-  ments.  Last  Easter,  Mr.  Whitley  had  ejected  Dayton  from  the  house  and  stood  screaming  at  him  until  he  drove  away,  and  Leila  could  understand  why.  She  didn't  care  for  Dayton's  values  or  his  women,  with  their  black  leather  shorts  and  tube  tops  and  tall  boots.  &quot;'They're  all  nurses,  according  to  him,&quot;  Fontane  had  told  her.  Leila  responded  with  a  questioning  look.  &quot;That's  how  he  intro-  duces  every  one  of  those  trashy  women.  He  says,  'Have  you  met  Sharanda,  my  scrub-nurse  friend&quot;  &quot;  Fontane  had  burst  out  laughing.  &quot;He  must  think  I  have  the  brains  of  a  bowling  ball.&quot;  But,  for  all  his  flaws,  Leila  could  see  that  Dayton  had  a  little  fire  in  his  soul,  and  that  the  same  light  flickered  in  Hiram.  The  [REDACTED]  police  had  gone  to  Dayton's  last  known  address  on  Mon-  day.  He  wasn't  there.  His  employer  said  he  hadn't  given  notice,  just  quit  showing  up.  The  Bellamy  County  police  stopped  by  to  question  Fontane  that  afternoon.  Was  it  possible  that  Dayton  had  kidnapped  Hiram?  Fontane  was  sure  he  hadn't.  &quot;He's  never  even  in-  vited  Hiram  to  come  home  with  him  for  a  weekend,&quot;  she  reported  to  Leila  later.  &quot;Hiram  is  just  a  toy  he  plays  with  when  he  wants  to  show  off  for  one  of  his  girlfriends.&quot;  THE  neighborhood  where  Leila  and  the  Whitleys  lived  had  been  built  at  the  turn  of  the  century  for  the  new  middle  class-for  meek,  polite  women  like  Leila's  mother  and  grand-  mother,  women  who  held  the  line  between  public  and  private  life  and  feared  shame.  All  the  houses  backed  onto  service  alleys,  as  if  the  household  functions-garbage  pickup,  stove-  wood  delivery-had  to  be  handled  as  dis-  creetly  and  invisibly  as  bodily  func-  " b"  tions.  When  Leila  was  growing  up,  everything  about  family  life  was  thought  to  be  proper  and  just,  and  you  weren't  allowed  to  talk  about  anything  per-  sonal.  Nowadays,  nothing  was  right  anywhere  in  society.  Just  tune  in  &quot;Dona-  hue&quot;  or  &quot;Oprah&quot;:  people  confessed  everything,  absolutely  everything,  in  public.  The  sound  ofthe  daytime  talk  shows  was  one  gigantic  lamentation.  Were  there  shameful  secrets  in  Hiram's  family?  Late  Monday,  the  police  had  questioned  Leila  privately,  asking  whether  she'd  noted  any  tension  be-  tween  family  members,  any  bruises  on  anybody.  She  told  them  she  was  certain  there  was  no  violent  behavior  among  the  Whitleys.  When  Hiram  misbe-  haved,  he  got  a  &quot;time-out,&quot;  not  a  slap.  Fontane  was  not  trained  to  be  meek,  but  to  be  scrappy  and  vigilant.  She  was  born  to  adversity,  while  Leila  was  born  to  the  smugness  typical  of  Southern  white  people  of  a  certain  class.  She  and  Fontane  had  never  discussed  it,  would  never  discuss  it.  Fontane,  the  solitary  dancer  on  the  music  box,  with  long  legs  like  exclamation  points.  W  hat  must  it  be  like  for  Fontane  to  climb  into  her  bed  tonight,  Leila  wondered.  Mr.  Whitley  would  pat  her,  turn  over,  and  fall  asleep.  The  house  would  be  utterly  quiet.  All  Fontane  would  hear  would  be  the  sound  of  her  own  breath-  ing,  the  goddam  regularity  of  it,  and  a  prayer  repeating  in  her  head:  Please,  God,  let  Hiram  be  breathing,  too.  Eventually  her  eyes  would  grow  ac-  customed  to  the  dark.  Visual  purple-  Leila  remembered  that  phrase  from  somewhere.  The  room  would  take  shape,  the  empty  hallway  beyond  it  like  a  bend  in  a  river  that  leads  nowhere.  EILA  had  worked  or  lived  next  door  to  Fontane  for  seven  years-two  when  the  building  was  only  a  store,  and  five  more  since  Leila  had  moved  into  it.  Colonel  Pinkerton's  Treasure  Trove  was  a  cracker  cottage  with  Victorian  touches-gingerbread  trim     on  the  eaves  and  porch  gallery,  a  fancy  iron  fence.  Inside,  it  was  set  up  like  a  model  house,  the  used  furniture  and  collectibles  for  sale  displayed  in  rooms  organized  around  color  themes.  Leila  had  a  knack  for  arrangement  and  for  color.  The  attic  playroom  was  a  car-  toonish  blue  and  yellow.  The  kitchen  bustled  with  green  glass  Depression-  era  mixing  bowls,  red-handledegg-  beaters,  and  gingham.  At  first,  Fontane  Whitley  kept  her  distance.  But  when  the  Colonel  died,  six  years  ago,  it  was  Fontane  who  noticed  that  something  was  wrong  with  Leila.  Fontane  liked  old  things;  she  regularly  checked  the  new  arrivals  after  a  truck  had  been  unloaded.  She  collected  hand-embroidered  pillowcases  and  anything  made  of  copper.  One  day,  Fontane  parked  Beckah,  who  was  sleeping  in  her  stroller,  next  to  Leila's  desk.  The  adding  machine  was  plugged  in  and  she  was  paying  bills.  Leila  remembered  staring  at  the  small  red  &quot;on&quot;  light.  The  baby  dozed;  the  red  light  burned  steadily.  It  was  like  a  tiny  traffic  signal  that  made  her  want  to  stop  doing  everything.  Time  passed-  " b"she  did  not  know  how  much  time-and  the  baby's  eyes  were  open.  She  was  grab-  bing  at  a  string  of  plastic  keys  suspended  above  her,  drool  running  from  the  corner  of  her  mouth.  Her  feet  kicked  and  her  eyes  watered  as  she  reached  for  the  toy  with  her  whole  body.  Once  in  a  while  she  touched  one  of  the  keys,  and  it  clicked  against  its  neighbor.  Other-  wise,  the  store  was  as  quiet  as  a  folded  quilt.  &quot;Leila,  honey,  you're  not  talking  today.  Something's  wrong  with  you,  you're  not  saying  a  word.&quot;  The  voice  was  Fontane's.  &quot;Can't  you  say  something?&quot;  The  silence  had  brought  Fontane  hur-  rying  down  from  the  third  floor  to  the  front  room.  Usually  she  could  hear  Leila's  voice,  uncurling  ten-  tatively  at  first,  then  climb,  ing,  as  she  chattered  at  Beckah.  &quot;You're  not  even    talking  to  the  baby?&quot;  Leila  looked  at  Beckah  and  then  at  Fontane  and  burst  into  tears,  but  still  she  couldn't  talk.  The  red  light  burned.  The  baby  slept,  then  played.  The  Colonel  had  beendead  for  six  months.  The  doctor  said  Leila's  depression  was  &quot;profound&quot;  -as  if,  she  thought,  he  were  describing  a  symphony  ora  speech.  He  prescribed  an  antidepres-  sant  drug  that  gave  her  a  great  deal  of  energy  after  just  a  few  weeks.  She  felt  happiest  in  the  store,  each  room  of  it  like  a  bright  nest  she  had  woven  for  herself.  The  colors  and  textures  sudden-  ly  brought  shivers  of  delight,  almost  as  if  she  could  taste  them,  as  if  they  satisfied  some  physical  appetite.  The  doctor  said  not  to  worry  about  this  odd  joy;  it  was  just  her  aptitude  for  pleasure  coming  back.  But  it  was  the  reason  she  had  decided  to  sell  the  house  outside  of  town  where  she  had  lived  with  the  Colonel  and  move  into  the  store.  THE  police  visited  the  Whitleys  three  times  on  Tuesday.  They  brought  a  specialist  from  the  Missing  Children's  Registry,  who  asked  de-  tailed  questions  about  Hiram's  play-  mates  and  habits  and  interviewed  chil-  dren  in  the  neighborhood.  The  church  auxiliary  sent  covered  dishes.  The     W  hitleys'  phone  rang  continuously  with  calls  from  well-wishers,  friends,  psy-  chics,  and  the  parents  of  other  children  who  had  disappeared.  Two  camera  vans  stayed  parked  on  the  street.  By  Tuesday  afternoon,  Fontane  was  under  a  doctor's  care  for  her  nerves.  She  took  small  yellow  pills  every  four  hours  and  received  visitors  from  the  striped  sofa  in  her  front  room.  Mr.  Whitley  had  gone  back  to  work,  but  not  before  posting  picturesof  Hiram  all  over  the  county:  &quot;Missing  Re-  ward,&quot;  the  fluorescent-green  paper  said  above  Hiram's  seventh-grade  picture.  Newspapers  in  Valdosta,  [REDACTED],  and  [REDACTED]  carried  the  story  on  the  front  page.  Leila  brought  lunch  for  Fontane  that  afternoon-a  platter  of  chicken  salad  with  sliced  cucumbers  and  a  pitcher  of  Crystal  Light  lemonade.  The  Reverend  Dozier  Jones  was  there,  holding  Fon-  tane's  limp  arm  as  they  prayed  together  in  front  of  a  silent  TV  screen  where  well-dressed  white  people  moved  through  spacious  rooms.  Fontane  had  taken  to  watching  a  lot  of  TV  since  Beckah  got  sick.  She  still  hadn't  gone  back  to  work.  Mr.  Whitley  said  she  would  never  have  to  if  she  didn't  want  to.  &quot;Ma'am,&quot;  the  Reverend  said,  rising  to  his  feet,  as  Leila  leaned  down  to  place  the  food  on  the  coffee  table.  &quot;You  remember  my  neighbor,  Leila  Summer  Pinkerton,&quot;  Fontane  said.  &quot;What  a  pity  we  keep  meeting  under  such  trying  circumstances,&quot;  the  Rev-  erend  said.  For  a  second,  Leila  imag-  ined  his  voice  emanating  from  the  afternoon  soap  unfolding  in  miniature  behind  him.  &quot;Lemonade?&quot;  she  asked.  Leila  hardly  watched  television  any-  more.  Her  favorite  programs  in  thirty-  five  years  were  The  Milton  Berle  Show  and  the  Bicentennial  Minutes.  She  wished  they  would  rerun  Uncle  Milty-there  was  nothing  funnier  than  a  man  dressed  as  a  woman,  pitched  forward  in  high  heels  like  a  gawhky  bird.  After  Beckah  died,  Hiram  devel-  oped  an  interest  in  movies  like  &quot;Fran-  kenstein'&quot;  and  &quot;The  Shining&quot;  and  &quot;Alien.&quot;  His  weekends  were  filled  with  gelatinous  creatures,  mummies  trail-  ing  gauze,  and  body  snatchers  shaped  like  giant  snow  peas.  Leila  was  happy  to  let  Hiram  use  the  Colonel's  VCR.  He  talked  a  mile  a  minute  while  he  watched  movies.  Leila  had  difficulty  keeping  up  with  him;  her  attention  " b"32  would  settle  on  the  film  orbe  side-  tracked  by  a  bird  at  the  feeder  in  the  yard.  Hiram  talked  mostly  about  school.  Fontane  bragged  to  anyone  who  would  listen  that  Hiram  was  in  the  gifted  program,  and  sometimes,  in  front  of  company,  she  had  him  recite  the  names  of  all  the  Presidents.  Afterlunch,  the  Reverend  followed  Leila  into  the  kitchen  and  stood  running  his  finger  along  the  Formica  counter  while  she  washed  the  dishes.  &quot;I'm  certain  we  all  appreciate  your  thought-  fulness  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Whitley  in  this  time  of  trouble,&quot;  he  said.  His  &quot;ts  were  little  firecrackers  going  off  in  the  middle  of  words.  It  was  probably  the  way  he  preached,  drawing  the  words  out,  making  them  sizzle  and  hiss.  &quot;Don't  you  remember  me  from  the  shop?&quot;  Leila  turned  to  face  him.  Some-  times  she  couldn't  bear  the  way  her  black  neighbors  deferred  to  her,  exchanging  nothing  more  than  pleasantries  and  homilies.  She  wanted  to  grab  them  and  shake  them  and  scream  IF's  me.  She  often  imagined  the  awkwardness  dis-  solving:  a  door  suddenly  coming  unstuck  in  a  room  full  of  people,  every  face  fur-  rowed  at  first  with  alarm,  then  soften-  ing  as  though  a  baby  with  wings  had  fluttered  through  the  open  doorway.  &quot;The  Colonel  was  a  fine  man,  a  fine  man.&quot;  The  Reverend  stayed  behind  his  mask.  Mabidda  thirty,  I  got  thirty,  mabidda  thirty,  who'll  say  thirty-five,  bidda  thirty-five  where?  The  Colonel  used  to  stand  at  his  auctioneer's  podium,  the  walnut  gavel  in  his  hand,  a  cowboy  hat  on  his  head.  His  voice  was  a  bullwhip,  gathering  the  crowd  in,  circling,  snapping  in  the  air.  Whenever  Leila  thought  of  him  now,  she  had  to  remind  herself  of  his  bad  traits  as  well  as  the  good  ones.  That  way  she  missed  him  less.  He  was  too  stuck  on  himself  to  adopt  a  child.  Afraid  he'd  get  a  defective  one.  Being  from  north  Geor-  gia,  he  wasn't  open-minded,  and,  if  the  truth  be  told,  in  the  beginning  he  did  busi-  ness  with  his  black  neigh-  bors  only  because  there  was  money  to  be  made  off  them.  &quot;He  was  just  a  human  being,&quot;  Leila  said.  &quot;You  don't  have  to  sweet-talk  me.&quot;  The  Reverend  looked  shocked.  &quot;I  know  he's  with  Jesus,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;the  Colonel.  And  I  hope  you've  taken  Jesus.  I've  taken  Him  into  my  heart  and  I  am  ready  to  go  to  Him  whenever  I'm  called.&quot;  Leila  picked  up  a  knife  in  the  sink  and  imagined  brandishing  it  inhis  direction.  How  about  right  now?  Are  you  ready  to  go  this  minute?  Instead,  she  scrubbed  the  blade  with  a  sponge  until  clear  water  danced  off  it.  The  Reverend  waited  as  if  for  an  &quot;amen&quot;  from  Leila,  still  unwilling  to  acknowl-  edge  her  candor.  &quot;I'm  in  no  big  hurry  myself,&quot;  she  finally  said.  She  knew  he'd  find  the  remark  too  playful,  but  wouldn't  take  issue  with  it.  A  moment  later,  he  left,  promising  to  return  the  next  day,  urging  Fontane  to  call  him  any  time.  HE  sheriff  organized  asearch  party.  At  dawn  on  Wednesday,  deputies  and  citizens  began  combing  Waccasassa  and  its  environs.  It  made  Leila  sick  to  her  stomach  when  she  saw  volunteer  firemen  going  through  the  dumpster  behind  Video  World.  Soon  Hiram's  face  would  appear  like  a  reverse  cameo  on  milk  cartons,  and  children  throughout  the  state  would  compare  his  birth  date  to  their  own  over  bowls  of  breakfast  cereal.  Leila  would  have  liked  to  join  the  search,  but  her  legs  and  back  were  not     &quot;Who,  [REDACTED];  AUGUST  17,  1992  what  they  once  were.  She  knew  the  local  terrain  well-from  the  sand-  hill  pines  near  the  northern  county  line  to  the  swampy  sweet-gum  woods  that  fringed  the  Waccasassa  River  at  the  western  border.  Bellamy  County  was  full  of  creeks,  dry  creek  beds,  quarries,  and  dense  forests,  all  of  which  now  seemed  threatening.  It  was  still  possible  that  Hiram  hadrun  off  and  gotten  lost;  Leila  believed  that.  When  he  was  in  elementary  school,  he  had  gone  camping  with  Mr.  Whitley  and  his  Boy  Scout  troop.  He  knew,  presumably,  the  basics  of  survival:  how  to  light  a  fire,  find  fresh  water,  and  sleep  in  safety  from  the  snakes,  bob-  cats,  and  wildhogs  that  Leila  knew  roamed  Bellamy  County.  Still,  as  the  days  passed,  the  vision  of  him  that  occupied  her  mind  changed.  On  Sun-  day,  he  tromped  in  slowmotion  through  a  field  like  someone  in  a  shampoo  commercial,  the  wild  phlox  and  rye-  grass  waving  him  on.  That  night,  he  slept  in  the  crotch  of  one  of  the  huge  live  oaks  that  lined  the  old  Bellamy  plantation  road  to  the  black  cemetery.  By  Tuesday,  his  clothes  were  ragged  and  his  hair  was  starting  to  mat.  She  saw  him  smeared  with  mud  to  the  elbows  and  knees,  bent  over  a  brook,  catching  crawdads.  By  Wednesday,  every  imaginary  glimpse  of  himwas  terrifying;  he  was  becoming  wild,  a  feral  child.  He  had  taken  on  an  ex-  istence  in  which  ferocity  alone  could  save  him.  Fi-  nally,  it  was  impossible  to  picture  him  at  all-he  had  regressed  too  far  from  the  boy  she  knew.  Hiram  had  become  a  complete  mystery.  And  another  mystery  had  been  revealed:  Leila  loved  him.  She  felt  the  love  deep  in  her  body  and  all  the  way  out  to  its  edges-in  her  teeth  and  nails,  skin  and  bones,  she  wanted  him  back.  The  search  teams  quit  at  sundown,  having  netted  two  garbage  bags  full  of  what  looked  like  shreds  of  clothes,  newsprint,  and  beer  cans,  all  of  it  described  as  poten-  tial  evidence.  [REDACTED],  with  Fontane's  approval,  Leila  pawed  through  crayons  and  rulers  and  Magic  Markers  and  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  gum  wrappers  and  balled-up  home-  work  assignments.  The  disorder  of  Hiram's  desk  felt  vital  as  it  touched  her  hands,  like  the  boy  himself.  &quot;Noth-  ing,&quot;  she  said  when  she  was  done.  She  walked  to  the  closet  and  opened  the  two  louvered  bifold  doors.  Fontane  nodded  her  agreement.  &quot;Help  me,&quot;  Leila  said.  &quot;You  know  where  things  belong.&quot;  The  two  of  them  bent  into  the  dark  of  the  closet.  Fontane  was  a  good  housekeeper.  At  home,  when  Leila  opened  a  closet  or  looked  under  a  bed,  dust  bunnies  drifted  in  the  small  up-  drafts.  Leila  recognized  a  lavender-  and-black  plaid  shirt  and  remembered  a  wisp  of  conversation,  Hiram's  head  framed  by  hickory  leaves.  The  shirt  seemed  ghostlike.  &quot;Oh,  my  God,&quot;  Fontane  said.  She  had  been  squatting.  Now  she  sat  back  on  the  floor.  &quot;My  God,  my  God.&quot;  &quot;What  is  it?&quot;  Fontane  pointed  to  the  flamingo-  colored  high-tops  lined  up  neatly  at  the  back  of  the  closet.  &quot;I  put  his  sneakers  there  myself.  They  were  alongside  the  bed  on  Sunday.  But  where  are  his  dress  shoes?  Do  you  see  his  dress  shoes?  Black  leather  wing  tips?&quot;  The  two  of  them  pulled  out  every-  thing  on  the  closet  floor.  While  Fon-  tane  pushed  through  the  clothes  on  hangers  Leila  dumped  the  contents  of  a  toy  box  on  the  bedroom  rug.  Legos,  blocks,  a  small,  deflated  football,  an  old  T-shirt.  &quot;I  don't  see  them  any-  where,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;His  good  black  pants,&quot;  Fontane  said.  Her  voice  was  shrill  with  excite,  ment.  &quot;His  dress  clothes  are  gone.  They're  gone!&quot;  Fontane  grabbed  Leila  around  the  waist  and  jumped  up  and  down,  holding  on  to  her.  Then  she  raced  down  the  steps  and  into  the  yard,  to  the  toolshed.  Leila  watched  from  the  window  as  Fontane  removed  the  padlock,  ducked  inside,  and  returned  weeping  and  thanking  God.  &quot;The  [REDACTED]  gun's  gone!&quot;  she  shouted.  By  the  time  Leila  made  her  way  downstairs,  Fon-  tane  was  on  the  phone  with  her  hus-  band,  her  voice  wobbly  with  excite-  ment,  then  rushing  out  in  a  torrent.  Leila  hugged  Fontane  and  sat  next  to  her  as  she  made  one  call  after  another.  That  night  Leila  lay  in  bed  thinking  about  the  last  time  Dayton  had  visited.  He  had  brought  Hiram  the  [REDACTED]  gun  against  Fontane  and  Evan's  wishes.  Worse,  he  had  taken  the  boy  out  to  the  Bellamy  plantation  road  for  target  practice.  It  was  a  Sunday  morning,  and  Fontane  was  furious  and  humili-  ated  when  she  discovered  that  the  gunfire  that  punctuated  the  Reverend's  sermon  was  from  Dayton's  shotgun.  He  and  Hiram  were  shooting  mistletoe  out  of  the  live  oaks.  Several  parishio-  ners  had  seen  the  two  of  them  resting  in  the  culvert,  their  guns  propped  against  a  tree.  N  Friday  afternoon,  Leila  donned  her  tattered  straw  hat  and  pink  cotton  gardening  gloves.  She  knelt  on  the  soft  rubber  mat  she  had  bought  to  save  her  kneecaps  and  began  weeding  the  herbs.  Fontane  was  arguing  with  her  husband.  Leila  could  hear  their  voices  rising  and  falling  through  the  open  kitchen  window.  The  sun  beat  down  through  the  torn  weave  of  Leila's  hat,  dappling  her  hands  and  the  ground.  Then  Fontane  was  standing  beside  her.  &quot;Any  news&quot;&quot;  Leila  asked.  &quot;The  police  keep  telling  me  it's  easier  to  find  two  fugitives  than  one.  They  don't  know  Dayton.&quot;  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  Leila  thought,  that's  where  Dayton  would  take  Hiram,  some  crowded  place  where  people  dis-  appeared  into  each  other.  &quot;Evan's  idea  of  finding  Dayton  is  to  pray.&quot;  Fontane  reached  beside  the  parsley  and  pulled  out  a  big  tuft  of  wood  sorrel  and  another  of  spurge.  &quot;If  I  could  kill  Dayton,  I  would,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  bet  Hiram  will  come  back  on  his  own.  At  the  end  of  the  summer,  when  the  novelty  wears  off.&quot;  But  Leila  knew  that  a  runaway  could  be  running  to-  ward  something  as  well  as  away  from  something.  She  had  wondered  about  that:  which  would  be  lonelier  for  Hiram-to  settle  into  the  quiet  that  Evan  Whitley  cast  around  his  family  like  a  heavy  net  or  to  listen  to  the  laughter  of  Dayton  and  his  women  behind  locked  doors?  And  what  if  Dayton  settled  down?  What  if  he  suddenly  learned  about  Crockpots  and  oral  thermometers  and  encyclopedias?  Fontane  would  become  bitter,  and  then,  for  all  her  cynicism,  pious.  Leila  could  picture  her  in  lace-collared  dresses,  offering  up  her  love  for  her  two  lost  children  on  the  unyielding  altar  of  the  Zion  church.  In  any  case,  even  if  he  came  home,  Hiram  would  be  changed.  There  would  bea  different  light  in  his  eyes-a  satisfied  shine,  or,  more  likely,  a  sullen  glint.  Leila  took  Fontane's  hand  and  squeezed  it  hard  and  pressed  it  against  her  forehead,  the  way  a  magician  touches  and  presses  and  smells  the  article  of  a  stranger  to  surmise  the  past  or  the  future.  -Ento  SnomER  "