 EYES  ON  P  I  \\ONIGHT  on  &quot;Eyes  On,&quot;  the  scandal  which  mey  be  burning  a  hole  in  your  eye  socket.  You've  been  promised  an  eyewitness  look  at  alarming  scandals,  eye-popping  fea-  tures,  and  exciting  insights  on  how  to  manage  your  money,  but  are  your  scandals  really  scandals?  Ray  Battle  reports.  Cut  To:  Ray  Barris  (on  steps  of  old  Customs  House).  Battle  is  an  old  hand,  or  maybe  he's  not,  but  he  sure  knows  how  to  dress.  Hints  of  his  having  &quot;been  around&quot;  include  prizefight  tickets  stuck  in  his  pocket  and  an  old  cam-  paign  button  saying  &quot;All  the  Way  with  Adlai.&quot;  To  soften  the  effect,  which  would  otherwise  be  alarming,  and  dis-  ruptive  to  the  user-friendly  aspect  of  our  program,  Battle  is  dressed  in  paje-  mas  and  carries  a  small  stuffed  toy,  perhaps  a  memento  of  a  child  he  once  loved.  Scandal-you  love  it,  I  love  it,  they  love  it.  We  love  it,  you  (plural)  love  it,  they  (plural)  love  it.  Hey,  wait  a  minute.  They  (plural)?  Isn't  that  redundant?  CUT  To:  sHoT  OF  STEALTH  BOMBER  (Battle  V.-O.)  BattL\xc2\xae:  You  bet.  &quot;They  (plural)&quot;  is  redundant.  And  that,  some  say,  is  just  the  problem.  Curt  To:  Sracy  Crom  (aging  En-  glish  professor).  Cre:  Technically  speaking,  while  you  may  need  to  differentiate  between  &quot;you&quot;  (singular)  and  &quot;you&quot;  (plural)  you  never  need  to  say  that  &quot;they&quot;  is  plural.  Cur  Back  To:  Battie.  Back  TO:  STEALTH  BOMBER.  Battu\xc2\xae:  Money  that  could  be  spent  on  infrastructure  and  special  treats  is  being  diverted,  some  say,  into  redun-  dant  and  unnecessary  attempts  to  in-  vestigate  &quot;soft&quot;  features,  which  don't  need  eny  attention  at  all.  CuT  to:  crapHirc.  BatTTLE:  For  instance,  one  network  spent  billions  of  your  advertising  dol-  lars-money  you  generate  when  you  buy  the  silly  products  advertised  on  TV-on  repetitive  and  nearly  mind-  numbing  information  about  students  in  a  small  Midwestern  town  who  turned  their  soccer  team  into  a  private  army.  Here's  the  catch:  some  experts  say  it  was  only  an  investment  scam,  not  a  real  army  at  all.  Here's  how  it  worked.  CUT  To:  STEALTH  BOMBER  CRASHING.     JUNE  8,  1992  CuT  To:  craprHic.  Battu\xc2\xae  (V.-O.):  One,  students  voted  to  give  up  soccer,  which  was  no  longer  being  funded  by  their  skinflint  board  of  education.  They  took  title  to  their  soccer  field  and  then  ...  Two,  broke  into  secret  corporate  computer  files,  where  the  names  and  addresses  of  aging  newshounds  were  on  file.  Then  they  ...  Three,  formed  a  military  &quot;alliance&quot;  with  an  irresponsible  breakaway  re-  public  which  gave  them  diplomatic  passports  and  the  right  to  curry  favor  with  legitimate  journalists.  The  outcome?  Billions  of  units  of  &quot;silly  work&quot;-reporting  stories  with  litle  or  no  meaning.  How  does  this  affect  you,  the  consumer?  Documents  show  that  all  this  useless  material  was  flown  to  [REDACTED]  at  government  expense  and  put  up  at  prestigious  Blair  House.  Cut  to:  rEcerrion  at  Buair  House.  Diplomats  and  journalists  hav-  ing  a  high  old  time  at  taxpayer  ex-  pense.  (Note:  Try  to  get  footage  of  [REDACTED]  Beatty  receiving  Medal  of  Freedom.  If  [REDACTED]  hasn't  got  this  yet,  intercut  footage  of  [REDACTED]  getting  pres-  tigious  award  from  French  government  with  footage  of  a  slow,  languid  tour  of  Blair  House:  the  gardens,  if  there  are  gardens;  if  not,  intercut  slow,  languid  tour  of  Blair  House  with  shots  of  Versailles,  which  is  a  good  segue  back  to  [REDACTED].)  Cur  to:  Harvey  Mimmu10ns  (bright  young  economics  professor).  (V.-O.):  But  Harvey  Mil-  lions,  bright  young  economics  profes-  sor,  says  that's  O.K.  Mirrrons:  The  students  were  quite  clever,  actually.  I'm  quite  impressed  by  their  audacity.  All  they  really  had  was  a  pool  of  aging  journalists  and  a  copy  of  a  Sylvia  Porter  book,  I  can't  remem-  ber  the  title,  but  copyright  1953  or  so-  the  one  where  she  had  salt-and-pepper  hair,  as  opposed  to  the  gray  she  had  later  and  the  gray-with-blue  she  ended  up  with.  That's  all  they  had,  really.  I'm  very  impressed  by  the  entrepre-  neurship.  One  of  them  is  now  the  premier  of  a  breakaway  republic,  and  the  others  are  doing  quite  nicely,  I  would  say-solid  portfolios,  nice  coun-  try  places,  and  soon.  CuT  to:  Barts.  (Battle  reaches  down  and  ties  his  shoelace.)  Batre:  What's  wrong  with  that,  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  you  ask?  Well,  for  one  thing,  I  might  have  tripped.  CUT  To:  STEALTH  PLANE  CRASHING.  Battie:  Using  up  more  precious  defense  dollars.  Defense  money?  Going  to  pay  off  frivolous  accident-liability  suits?  That's  right.  Since  the  so-called  peace  dividend  has  been  turned  into  golf  clubs,  broadcasts  like  this  one  have  been  funded  by  the  Department  of  Defense.  Why?  Don't  ask  me,  but  some  studies  indicate  that  children  who  didn't  use  this  technology  scored  just  as  well.  These  studies  say  that  giving  children  options  as  to  which  side  of  a  non-issue  they  want  informa-  tion  about  creates  stress,  tension,  se-  vere  depression.  CUT  To:  STEALTH  PLANE  CRASHING.  CuT  To:  crapHIc.  CuT  to:  Batti\xc2\xae.  (Note:  Get  Battle  to  smile,  for  Christ's  sake-maybe  squeeze  the  toy.)  BaTTtLE:  But  don't  panic.  You  can  refinance.  For  instance,  if  you  own  one  of  the  former  Baltic  republics,  you  may  be  able  to  reinvest  in  an  Asian  tire  company  at  a  much  lower  rate.  And  here's  a  tip:  instead  of  automatically  thinking  &quot;Medellin&quot;  when  the  phrase  &quot;drug  cartel&quot;  comes  up,  why  not  look  into  &quot;Cali&quot;?  Some  insiders  are  making  millions  just  by  investigating  the  less  publicized  group.  Home  ownership  continues  to  be  the  Number  One  way  to  raise  hell.  And  despite  the  fact  that  no  criminal  charges  have  been  filed,  the  credibility  of  those  who  took  all  their  clothes  off  while  using  their  overdraft  privileges  at  the  House  bank-  as  though  House  members  had  special  Dionysian  privileges  denied  to  the  rest  of  us-all  this  doesn't  sit  well  with  voters.  Cut  to:  vorErs.  Millions  of  them,  watching  a  Stealth  plane  which  very  nearly  crashes,  then  (miraculously)  re-  gains  altitude,  then  crashes.  CuT  To:  BaTTLE,  who  sits  down  on  the  Customs  House  steps.  He's  a  little  lonely,  a  little  vulnerable.  Possibly  show  divorce  papers  spilling  out  of  pocket.  His  head  nods.  He's  in  a  trance.  Kind  of  a  psychic-healing-type  thing.  BATTLE  (mumbling):  Here  are  some  other  stories  &quot;Eyes  On&quot;  is  tracking:  Way  to  a  man's  heart  is  through  stom-  ach,  diet  doctors  say.  Early  to  bed,  early  to  rise  can  impact  on  health,  experts  claim.  How  come  no  new  nite  spots  in  midtown?  [REDACTED]  a  real     hard-luck  town.  [REDACTED]  Sound  Ma-  chine  won't  play  there.  Bad  news  for  former  Yugo  republic  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina;  M.S.M.  can  still  pack  them  in....  [REDACTED]  still  a  faraway  country,  about  which  we  know  noth-  ing.  The  Beautiful  Wife  misses  the  Latin  Quarter....  Show-biz  old-  timers  remember  when  &quot;Walters&quot;  meant  Lou,  not  Barbara.  No  reflection  on  Barbara.  Madonna  interested  in  compassion;  not  big  on  Eastern  Eu-  rope.  How  come  no  new  niteries  in  those  big,  new  Times  Square  hotels?  Can't  report  43616e616461Europe  .  .  .  too  dull,  but  [REDACTED]  still  boffo  in  Chi.  Ma-  donna  says  she  won't  play  former  Yugo  republics.  Gloria  Estefan  of  [REDACTED]  Sound  Machine  says  it's  a  &quot;me,  too&quot;  move.  Estefan  says  she  started  whole  dump-Yugo  thing,  and  now  others  are  following  suit.  Ma-  donna  office  says  star  will  respond.  Today's  best  gag:  Billy  Farberoso  says  his  room  is  so  small  even  the  mice  have  hunchbacks.  Madonna  won't  talk  to  members  of  [REDACTED]  Sound  Ma-  chine.  Big  story  brewing  there.  Former  [REDACTED]  a  non-starter.  Bobby's  Boy  scratched  at  Santa  Anita.  Former  Al-  bania  definitely  in  the  dumps.  &quot;Poorest  Country  in  Europe&quot;  tag  a  real  floperoo.  Foreign  aid  a  dog,  but  [REDACTED]  still  hotsy  in  Chi.  Today's  WIN-Go  num-  ber:  546.  Someone  should  do  McLaugh-  lin  Group-type  thing  with  Ukrainian  slant;  use  real  stars,  though.  High  concept  to  ask  Madonna  does  she  have  Ukrainian  friend.  Compassion-type  thing.  &quot;We  Are  the  World,&quot;  minus  a  coupla  places.  Home  ownership.  ..  (Lifts  his  head,  looks  up.  In  the  sky  over  the  Customs  House  we  see  a  Stealth  bomber,  black,  a  little  threatening,  but  lovely.)  BaTTL\xc2\xae:  Say,  that's  a  pretty  plane.  Bomber  ascends  toward  sun,  then  explodes.  We  ascend  toward  it.  Sud-  denly,  we  are  in  the  closing  graphic.  Not  only  do  we  see  every  piece  of  the  Stealth  bomber  as  it  explodes,  we  have  a  sense  of  experiencing  every  single  atom  of  the  plane.  It's  kind  of  slinky  and  granu-  lar  and  cool.  Not  only  do  we  have  a  sense  of  the  aerodynamic  design  of  the  plane,  we  are  the  aerodynamic  design.  We  glide  easily  through  the  wind  and  go  to  CommErcrar.  -Grorce  W.  S.  Trow  "