  HIS  MOTHER  INSIDE  HIM  LLEN  Dow  had  been  alarmed,  in  A  childhood,  by  his  mother's  un-  happiness,  which  would  vent  itself  in  sudden  storms  of  temper  that  flattened  the  other  occupants  of  the  house  into  the  corners  and  far  rooms.  Once,  he  saw  his  father  cowering  under  the  dining  table  while  his  mother,  red-faced  with  fury,  tried  to  get  at  him  to  slap  him  again.  Allennever  forgave  her  for  that-for  her  doing  it,  for  his  seeing  it.  Though  he  learned  to  get  around  her-indeed,  no  one  was  better  at  getting  around  her;  he  was  her  only  child,  her  confidant,  her  charmer,  her  prince,  amusing  and  politic-he  re-  mained  wary  of  the  rage  inside  her  that  he  had  been  permitted  to  glimpse.  She  made  him  nervous,  and  nervousness  became  his  mode.  All  the  complaints  of  nervousness-skin  rashes,  stammer-  ing,  asthma,  insomnia-were  his.  It  took  him  decades  of  living  hundreds  of  miles  beyond  her  reach  to  begin  to  breathe,  to  sleep,  and  to  speak  nor-  mally.  The  women  who  drew  close  to  him  in  the  course  of  his  life  tended  to  suffer,  and  it  took  no  great  insight  of  his  to  imagine  why  his  heart  was,  in  regard  to  their  sufferings,  rather  aloof  and  cool,  if  not  faintly  exultant.  W  here-  as  with  the  sufferings  of  a  child  or  of  a  man-a  man  cowering  under  the  table  as  an  alternative  to  hitting  back-  he  was  instantly  empathetic.  He  re-  sented  it,  then,  when,  after  her  death,  people  (second  cousins,  Lutheran  minis-  ters)  fondly  remarked  on  how  much  he,  as  he  approached  sixty,  resembled  his  mother.  He  couldn't  see  it.  He  looked  in  the  mirror.  The  fair  skin,  yes-once  freck-  led,  now  pocked  by  spots  of  sun  dam-  age.  Though  her  hair  looked  brown  and  had  early  turned  gray,  she  had  been  one  ofnature's  redheads,  and  when  he  had  grown  a  beard,  it  had  come  in  reddish.  And  there  was  a  vexed  something  about  his  forehead-  a  rather  low  forehead  like  his  mother's,  for  all  their  intellectual  pretensions.  When  her  temper  flared,  a  pink  &quot;V&quot;  had  appeared  between  her  eyebrows;  he  had  no  temper  to  speak  of,  but  there  was  a  pink  roughening  of  his  skin  exactly  between  his  eyebrows.  Other-  wise-nose,  mouth,  ears-he  saw  no  resemblance.  His  ears  were  the  &quot;Hofstetter  ears&quot;-  small-lobed,  protuberant  at  the  tops,  like  a  lemur's.  He  had  inherited  them  from  his  grandmother,  his  mother's  mother;  a  photograph  existed  of  her  and  her  eleven  brothers  and  sisters  posed  in  black  together,  all  with  variants  of  these  ears-white  spots  in  the  photograph.  His  mother's  ears,  as  the  rest  of  her  body  had  dwindled  in  old  age,  had  grown  larger  and  come  to  look  just  like  her  father's,  with  big,  flat,  dull-colored  lobes.  As  a  little  boy,  Allen,  crayoning  on  the  floor,  had  often  looked  up  and  admired  the  impressive  ears  of  his  grandfather  as  the  old  man  tilted  back  his  head  to  bring  the  newspaper  print  intofocus.  His  mother,  he  felt,  had  identified  more  with  her  father  thanwith  her  mother,  a  tiny  indus-  trious  woman  toward  whom  her  daughter  had  felt  a  compound  of  won-  der,  exasperation,  and  pity-somewhat  the  way,  perhaps,  in  which  Allen  re-  garded  his  own  father.  His  mother's  father  figured  in  the  vividestof  her  family  tales  of  long  ago-the  man  returning  from  a  tavern  down  a  straight  dirt  road,  and  greeting  with  harsh,  drunken  words  the  little  girl  who  had  run  up  the  road  to  meet  him;  the  man,  younger,  working  in  the  woods,  saw-  ing  and  burning  treesfor  the  &quot;charcoal  business&quot;  with  his  bride's  brothers;  younger  still,  slender  and  unmarried,  the  man  walking  miles  up  and  down  the  local  hills  to  teach  at  a  one-room  schoolhouse.  The  walk  took  him  daily  through  the  farm  where  a  certain  young  woman,  the  baby  of  her  large  family,  spied  him  out  and  created  a  reason,  one  day  of  deep  snow,  for  them  to  meet.  We  are  all  the  result  of  sexual  events,  and  their  faded  heat  still  warms  us.  Allen's  mother  had  implanted  him  with  a  set  of  images  that  entwined,  flourishing  and  fading,  among  those  he  had  ac-  quired  with  his  own  senses.  It  surprised  him,  unpleasantly,  when  his  mother's  laugh,  its  unmistakable     APRIL  20,  1992  sly  cry  and  shy  trailing-off,  came  out  of  his  mouth.  And  it  irritated  him  to  detect,  in  the  workings  of  his  brain,  an  increasing  amount  of  the  fanciful,  self-defeating  obliquity  that  had  so  irritated  him  inher.  In  conversation  she  always  resisted  simple  concurrence,  and  would  nimbly  take  a  contrary  position,  as  if  to  make  life,  for  herself  and  her  partner  in  dialogue,  more  interesting.  This  curious  courtesy  was  generally  wasted  on  the  world,  Allen  had  long  ago  observed,  yet  he  felt  in  his  own  dealings  an  increasing  tendency  in  the  same  direction;  he  couldn't  help  himself,  the  pull  of  the  contrary  was  too  strong,  and  there  was  too  much  justice  in  the  case  that  was  not  being  presented.  For  instance,  when  his  second  wife  was  negotiating  the  price  of  the  sub-  urban  spread  where  they  would  con-  solidate  their  married  status,  he  found  himself  in  the  mental  position  of  the  sellers,  who  were  desperate  to  move  to  [REDACTED],  and  he  kept  proposing  to  his  wife  a  worse  bargain  than  the  one  she  eventually  managed  to  strike.  &quot;Whose  side  are  you  on&quot;&quot;  she  asked  in  exasperation,  and  he  felt  his  mother  inside  him  itching  to  embark  on  a  discourse  as  to  the  small-  and  mean-  mindedness  of  taking  anything  as  simple  as  a  single  side,  this  being  the  rootof  all  wars  and  exploitation.  There  was  something  very  vulgar  and  unchristian,  this  inner  voice  urged,  about  any  display  of  self-interest.  Yet  in  some  sense,  too,  he  was  arguing  egainst  his  mother,  for  she  had  been,  in  her  rural  realm,  a  considerableacquirer  of  acreage,  adding  slice  after  slice  of  neighboring  property  as  &quot;protection&quot;  of  the  acreage  already  possessed.  She  had  done  this,  in  her  later  years,  with  Allen's  money,  even  though  he  hated  land-its  weediness,  its  erosiveness,  its  taxability.  Or,  rather,  he  felt  about  land,  as  about  his  mother,  ambivalent,  she  having  planted  in  him  the  myth  that  land  was  sacred,  a  piece  of  Mother  [REDACTED],  endlessly  valuable,  and  the  last  thing  that  the  vulgar  self-  interest-seekers  of  the  world  would  manage  to  take  from  you.  So  within  him  his  mother  was  bat-  tlinghis  mother  and  his  sensible  wife  was  the  exasperated  recipient  of  a  double  message.  His  first  wife,  too,  had  been  fond  of  land;  she  still  queened  it  over  a  large  tract  his  diligence  had  supplied.  It  seemed  to  be  his  Sisyphean  fate  to  settle  one  woman  after  another  in  a  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  sizable  plot  and  then  move  on,  momentarily  free,  until  the  next  female  developer  locked  him  into  her  plans.  If  he  had  not,  inhis  wish  to  avoid  his  mother's  tem-  per,  totally  erased  his  own,  it  might  have  made  him  angry  to  contemplate.  But  then,  his  mother's  con-  trarious  voice  within  him  urged,  where  would  he  have  lived,  but  for  these  landed  women?  On  the  streets?  In  the  trees?  HEN  his  mother  died,  he  became  the  sole  custodian  of  hundreds  of  small  mental  pictures.  In  the  most  recent,  he  and  his  mother  were  moving  in  and  out  of  hospitals,  stooped  and  slow,  like  one  of  those  el-  derly  couples  in  which  the  man  looks  a  generation  younger.  Hospitals,  all  glos-  sy  and  abounding  in  exits  and  entrances  and  eccentric  minor  characters,  seem  made  to  be  sitcom  sets,  and  his  mother  and  he  laughed  at  the  same  places  in  the  script.  After  the  big,  black,  male  nurse  insisted  on  cutting  her  toenails  and  washing  her  ticklish  feet,  Allen  laughed  at  her  account  of  it,  while  thinking  secretly  that  it  had  needed  to  be  done.  Her  sphere  of  effective  supervision  had  so  shrunk  that  even  her  feet  were  out  of  it.  Yet  she  looked,  with  her  white  hair  flung  about  unpinned  on  her  pillow,  attractively  wild,  and  the  brick  cityscape  out  the  hospital  windows  took  her  back  to  her  own  city  days,  when  she  and  his  father  had  travelled  through  the  state's  small  cities  as  his  father's  employer  directed.  Allen  preferred  her  city  self,  the  young  woman  predating  his  birth,  whose  aroma  of  nervous  grace  clung  to  the  young  mother  who  would  take  him  on  the  trolley  car  into  town,  to  buy  him  a  jacket  for  Sundays,  or  shoes  in  which  he  could  see  the  bones  of  his  feet  move  in  an  eerie  green  space  at  the  bottom  of  a  fluoroscope;  or  she  would  take  him  to  a  dance  lesson,  or  a  piano  lesson,  or  the  office  of  a  city  doctor  redolent  of  leather  and  raincoats  and  Mercurochrome.  Sometimes,  when  he  thought  back  on  it,  it  had  been  ske  who  was  going  to  the  doctor,  for  mysterious      female  reasons.  Her  femaleness,  with  its  special  natural  burdens,  was  much  on  her  mind.  She  had  talked  a  lot  about  birth,  the  two  births  she  had  been  present  at.  At  the  first,  she  had  been  much  too  big  for  her  little  mother,  and  began  life  as  a  twelve-pound  near-  murderess,  after  a  day  and  night  of  inflicting  torture.  At  the  second,  Allen  had  been  a  suitable  weight-a  little  under  eight  pounds-but  up  to  the  mo-  ment  of  parturition  she  had  doubted,  somehow,  that  she  could  do  it,  do  some-  thing  so  normal  and  strange  as  having  a  baby.  She  claimed  that  when  he  was  a  few  minutes  old  he  had  looked  her  straight  in  the  eye,  and  for  the  first  time  in  her  life  she  had  felt  right.  When  she  was  dead  and  her  input  had  ceased,  he  wondered  about  her  unhappiness.  Had  the  two  of  them  imagined  it?  Her  life  had  been  no  worse  than  most  lives  and  better,  surely,  than  many.  Being  a  woman  hadno  doubt  frustrated  her,  keeping  her  at  home,  tying  her  to  the  fortunes  of  men  less  intelligent  than  herself,  denying  her  a  career.  She  was  never  uncon-  scious  of  her  sex,  its  embarrassments  foremost;  she  more  than  once  told  her  son  how  when  she  was  young  and  ambitious  her  menstrual  periods  laid  her  low  for  four  or  five  days  each  time,  a  monthly  thunderbolt.  &quot;Your  mother's  a  real  femme&quot;  had  been  his  father's  sly  boast  to  him.  As  if  she  were,  secreted  in  the  house  the  two  of  them  daily  left  and  returned  to,  a  dangerous  treasure,  glowing  but  radioactive.  Perhaps  some-  thing  timid  within  her,  or  even  a  lazy  and  self-indulgent  something,  had  held  her  back  from  joining  the  women  of  her  generation  who  did  manage  to  make  their  own  lives,  as  schoolteach-  ers  and  saleswomen  if  not  as  artists  and  executives.  This  idea-that  she  was  lazy  and  self-indulgent-came  from  her;  all  of  Allen's  ideas  came  from  her,  save  the  male,  boyish  idea  ofgetting  away,  of  getting  out  into  unheated,  unmediated  space.  Even  that,  in  truth,  had  been  her  idea;  she  had  once  taken  him  upon  the  little  hill  that  overlooked  their  town  and  told  him  that  some  dayhe  would  leave  all  this,  he  would  fly  free.  She  was  in  him  not  as  he  had  been  in  her,  as  a  seed  becoming  a  heavy  little  idol,  but  as  the  full  web  of  his  perceptions  and  reactions;  he  had  led  his  life  as  an  extension  of  hers,  a  superior  version  of  hers,  and  when  she  died  he  became  custodian  of  all  his  litle  images  of  her,of  his  thousand  tiny  nuanced  &quot;understandings&quot;  of  her,  like  the  words  of  a  once  commonplace  " b"   language  of  which  he  was  now  the  sole  surviving  speaker,  with  no  one  to  speak  it  to.  INDING  human  relations  difficult,  she  had  turned  to  nature  for  com-  fort,  and  now,  as  he  aged,  the  vast,  restless  natural  presence,  the  birds  and  blossoms  in  their  seasons  and  the  chro-  matic  tunings  of  air  and  weather,  pressed  upon  him  as  he  paced  the  suburban  acreage  where  his  present  wife  had  installed  him.  His  mother  hadhad  a  nature  lover's  hatred  of  smoking  and  drinking-her  father  had  come  home  drunk  and  cruel  from  the  tavern-and  Allen  had  relinquished  both  habits  years  ago.  She  didn't  smoke  or  drink  but  had  loved  to  eat,  and  her  middle-aged  cor-  pulence  embarrassed  him  as  well  as  her.  In  the  hospital,  looking  back  upon  her  life,  she  had  voiced  only  one  regret,  with  afleeting  expression  of  disgust:  &quot;I'm  sorry  I  let  myself  get  fat.&quot;  But  then,  in  the  sentences  that  followed,  as  an  excuse,  she  had  described  the  ir-  resistible  apple  pie  a  la  mode  served  in  the  basement  cafeteria  of  a  downtown  department  store  where  she  had  once  worked  for  a  few  Christmases-the  delicious  crust,  the  cinnamon  on  the  crust,  the  creaminess  of  the  vanilla,  or  even  fudge-ripple,  ice  cream  on  top.  The  store  had  been  the  classier  though  smaller  of  the  two  major  downtown  emporiums,  both  rendered  defunct  by  the  rise  of  suburban  malls;  inside  the  revolving  doors,  gusts  of  feminine  perfume  had  swamped  his  youthful  senses,  and  Christmas  tinsel  shivered  everywhere,  and  carols  were  chiming  from  high  on  the  walls,  and  toward  the  rear  of  the  first  floor,  across  from  the  stairway  leading  down  to  the  clatter-  ing,  fragrant  cafeteria,  a  lending  library  had  held,  each  jacket  proudly  wrapped  in  cellophane,  the  new  Ellery  Queen  mystery,  the  new  Thurber  collection.  Trembling  tracks  of  wire  carried  money  and  receipts  around  the  ceiling  to  an  unseen  cashier's  office  and  back  again-  or  was  thisin  the  big  hardware  store  in  the  next  block?  Were  pneumatic  tubes  used  here,  spitting  out  with  a  stunning  thump  and  crash  cylinders  colorfully  padded  at  both  ends  with  thick  felt?  His  mother  would  have  known;  she  could  have  shared  with  him  the  vanished  texture  of  this  lost  world,  the  world  she  had  brought  him  to  life  within,  a  world  of  glamorous  drugstores,  with  marble  countertops,  and  movie  houses  that  were  exotic  islands  of  air-conditioning,  with  paper \n\n  icicles  dripping  from  the  marquee.  Now  he  wandered  a  world  without  features,  just  grass  and  sky,  asin  [REDACTED]'s  remotest  Mato  Grosso,  the  last  of  his  tribe,  silent  and  hungry.  Hungry-he  could  not  stop  eating.  After  a  full  dinner,  while  his  wife  loaded  the  dishwasher,  he  would  rummage  rather  frantically  in  the  breadbox  and  the  cupboards,  scarcely  conscious  of  what  he  was  doing,  and  stuff  his  mouth  with  cook-  ies,  peanuts,  raisins.  Morn-  ings  when  he  was  at  home,  in  a  strange  daze  he  would  find  himself  in  the  kitchen,  not  remembering  how  he  got  there,  and  consume  half  a  bag  ofpotato  chips,  or  a  safe  dish  of  leftover  micro-  waved  peas.  Food,  all  other  sirens  growing  faint  and  hoarse  with  age,  now  sang     \n\n to  him  irresistibly-the  edgi-  ness  of  it,  the  friability,  the  saltiness  or  sweetness  in  the  moment  of  first  contact  with  his  membranes,  the  ruminative  incorpora-  tion  of  it,  like  an  act  of  memorization  or  of  mathematical  comprehension.  Eating  was  a  way,  his  only  remaining  way,  of  intersecting  with  the  world.  People  sensed  it;  his  Christmas  pre-  sents  tended  to  be  edible-boxes  of  giant  cashews,  of  pricey  nugget  con-  glomerates  of  chocolate,  nuts,  and  caramel-and  at  dinner  parties  he  was  the  one  somehow  elected  to  take  a  second  helping,  to  gratify  the  hostess.  Allen  Dow  was  getting  fat.  Just  five  pounds  overweight,  as  he  saw  it,  though  he  could  have  lost  fifteen  without  look-  ing  thin.  Each  day  proved  to  be  not  quite  the  one  in  which  to  eat  less.  Though  he  woke  to  a  stomach  ache,  and  vowed  moderation,  as  the  sun  grew  higher  thecry  from  an  emptiness  within  was  too  sharp,  too  persistent.  As  the  last  of  a  jar  of  sugared  peanuts,  or  ofa  nicely  buttered  blueberry  scone,  disappeared  into  his  insides,  smother-  ing  the  suppressed  panic  there-not  so  much  the  fearof  death  as  the  sensation  that  his  life  was  too  s#zell-he  smiled  to  think  that  his  mother  had  reached  this  point  at  the  age  of  thirty,  whereas  he  was  sixty.  Girls  develop  more  rap-  idly  than  boys.  -Joun  Uppik\xc2\xae  "