 KEIRETSU  Wyatt  Anprews,  CBS  News  Correspondent:  Dennis  Gormley  sells  an  auto  part  you've  probably  never  heard  of,  an  engine  bearing.  But  as  auto  parts,  it's  among  the  best.  Gormley's  company,  Federal  Mogul,  sells  millions  of  these  bearings  to  Mercedes-Benz,  Volkswagen,  and  GM,  to  name  afew,  but  despite  constant  effort,  he  has  never  sold  a  single  bearing  to  the  4a6170616eese.  Why?  Dennis  GormiEy:  They  already  have  suppliers-the  suppliers  that  area  part  of  the  Keiretsu.  AnpreEws:  The  Keiretsu.  The  corporate  family.  The  cartel  in  which  interconnected  4a6170616eese  companies  buy  from  each  other,  locking  out  foreigners,  has  long  been  a  trade  barrier  inside  4a6170616e.  What's  new  is  thatin  the  auto  parts  field,  the  4a6170616eese  Keiretsu  has  come  to  [REDACTED].  unpay,  9  p.m.  S  &quot;Keiretsu&quot;-now,  what  does  that  mean?  &quot;Cartel,&quot;  &quot;trust.&quot;  We  had  them,  for  God's  sake.  What's  the  God-  damned  fuss?  Now,  in  the  twilight  of  my  life,  I  have  to  listento  a  lot  of  nonsense  about  keiretsu.  &quot;4a6170616eese  'Keiretsu'  pose  danger  to  [REDACTED]  euto  suppliers.&quot;  What  of  it?  Old  Mr.  Jimmy  Hooder  posed  a  danger  to  [REDACTED]  auto  suppliers-he  drove  them  all  out  of  business,  for  God's  sake,  and  he  was  the  president  of  the  Reading  Room,  most  stylish  man  ever,  for  God's  sake.  Those  tweeds,  that  way  he  had  of  saying  &quot;Hello&quot;  as  though  he  were  say-  ing  &quot;Goodbye.&quot;  Treasured  memories,  for  God's  sake.  Why  the  hell  should  a  man  like  Old  Mr.  Jimmy  Hooder  refrain  from  posing  a  danger  to  [REDACTED]  auto  suppliers?  Made  it  more  fun  for  the  rest  of  us,  for  God's  sake.  Trea-  sured  memories.  I  remember  I  was  with  his  daughter  Marjorie,  for  in-  stance,  Stream  Club,  1936  or  so,  nice  table,  pink  tablecloth,  one  of  those  friendly  little  beaded  shades  around  a  little  lamp  right  in  the  middle  of  the  table-the  envy  of  everyone,  for  God's  sake,  sitting  right  there  with  his  daugh-  ter,  and  he  walked  straight  toward  us.  Friendly  as  could  be.  The  whole  room  noticed:  don't  think  I  didn't  notice  that.  The  man  who  ravaged  the  independent  automobile-  parts  manufacturers  of  the  Middle  West  heading  right  toward  us.  Of  course,  there  was  a  frisson.  And  a  smile.  On  his  face.  &quot;Put  out  that  cigarette,&quot;  he  said  to  me,  and  I  did-damned  fast.  We  were  young,  terribly  young,  and  we  loved  to  hear  him  tell  us  how  he  did  it.  He  would  start  by  relaxing  in  his  big  chair  and  wreathing  his  head  with  cigar  smoke,  and  then  he  would  talk  about  the  Pilgrim  Fathers,  and  Conestoga  wagons  across  the  prairie,  and  his  grandmother  bringing  thebig  old  Louis  XIV  escritoire  from  Phila-  delphia,  and  defending  it  from  Indian  -Transcript  of  &quot;CBS  Evening  News.&quot;  attack,  and  dying  for  it,  an  arrow  in  her  back  piercing  the  fine  muslin  you  used  to  be  able  to  get  for  anybody's  dresses  back  then.  Men,  women,  chil-  dren  wore  dresses  of  fine  muslin  in  those  days  and  never  thought  anything  of  it.  Then  he'd  get  to  the  good  part:  the  heroics  of  it.  &quot;I  saw  that  there  were  too  many  God-damned  independent  auto  suppliers  and  that  if  I  took  a  firm,  principled  stand  I  could  drive  them  all  out  of  business,&quot;  he  would  say.  The  deep  intake  of  breath  came  from  us,  the  junior  members  of  the  Junior  Holiday  Dance  Floor  Committee,  which  was  about  as  exclusive  a  group  as  you  could  come  by  in  those  days.  Talk  about  kefretsu-we  kept  anybody  out  who  couldn't  prove  direct  descent  from  someone  who  had  driven  every-  body  out  of  business  except  for  himself.  REASURED  memories.  Mother.  Mother  at  the  bridge  table.  Some-  one  has  mentioned  a  place.  Mother  had  a  great  sense  of  place.  We  owned  [REDACTED]  at  one  point,  part  of  a  deal  that  gave  us  all  the  Pontiacs  in  the  Middle  West  in  return  for  getting  Mr.  Alfred  Sloan  into  the  Stream  Club,  which  didn't  go  through  in  the  end-too  businesslike,  that  air  of  the  executive  suite  he  could  never  get  rid  of.  Poor  Sloan.  Mother  carried  that  authority.  Anyone  who  A}  arrived  in  a  Pontiac-well,  you  can  imagine.  Anyone  from  [REDACTED]-well,  you  can  imagine.  Sometimes  when  she  had  a  really  bad  hand  at  bridge  she'd  just  look  up  as  though  someone  Aed  arrived  in  a  Pontiac,  and  she  would  say,  &quot;We  owned  all  those.&quot;  Just  under  her  breath.  Talk  about  kefretsu.  Bobby  Terwilliger,  for  God's  sake.  His  family  owned  all  the  sugar  in  the  world.  Bobby  Terwilliger  was  mar-  ried  three  times.  First,  to  my  sister  Boo.  Then  Margaret  Thompson  of  the  Press  Quik  fortune,  and,  lastly,  that  charity  nurse.  No.  All  wrong.  JANUARY  27,  1992  Bobby  was  married  four  times.  First  to  my  sister  Boo  (must  call  Boo  scon-  get  number  from  caseworker),  second  to  Margaret  Thompson  of  the  Press  Quik  Thompsons,  third  to  that  cun-  ning  litle  Lottie  Penema  with  the  sinuous  body,  and  ther  the  nurse.  Bobby  took  Boo  on  a  fantastic  around-  the-world  honeymoon.  Naturally,  they  were  welcomed  in  every  port.  Native  girls  carrying  small  children  swam  out  to  meet  them  in  [REDACTED].  They  thought  Boowas  a  manifestation  of  pure  light.  For  several  days  Boo  stayed  out  on  deck  blessing  people  and  giving  darshan,  which  caused  her  no  end  of  trouble  with  the  [REDACTED]  when  she  was  annulling  Bobby.  (See  scrapbook.)  So  different  now.  [REDACTED]  doesn't  seem  to  figure  so  much  in  what  we  do  these  days.  When  things  were  right,  I  a-  ways  had  a  friend  before  the  Rota,  whatever  that  was.  &quot;Reno  for  some;  Rota  for  others,&quot;  was  a  phrase  that  cropped  up.  IN  those  days,  &quot;Roccea-cocca-conda&quot;  was  a  phrase  that  cropped  up.  Oh,  how  we  sang  that  song.  Rocea-ca-ca-conda  You  and  me  Just  you  see  We're  ga-ga-ga-ga  Gonna  Get-a-get  Be-yonda  Your  fast  reply  A  kiss  on  the  sly  Rocca-cocca-conda  Just  now  I  am  standing  in  the  very  spot  where  all  the  fun  was,  here  at  the  Hotel  Subaltern.  Rocea-cocca-conda.  This  is  the  spot  where  all  the  damned  good  fun  happened.  Look!  There  is  the  gay  wallpaper  they  went  in  for  at  the  Racaconda  Room.  Remember  the  little  coconut  trees  and  the  girls  with  the  sarongs?  A  little  unrealistic,  maybe,  those  huge  hips.  But  here  I  am.  And  what  about  all  this  fuss  about  keiretsu?  Rocca-cocca-conda.  They  didn't  let  just  anybody  in,  I  can  tell  you.  Bobby  Terwilliger  owned  all  the  sugar  in  the  world.  The  Sugar  Trust.  I  mean,  if  you  put  one  little  cube  of  the  stuff  in  a  cup  of  tea,  it  was  money  for  old  Bobby.  Or  his  grandfather-  I  guess  it  was  a  little  different  by  the  time  Bobby  was  growing  up.  But  for  heaven's  sake,  why  get  upset  if  all  the  auto  parts  are  owned  by  this  one  or  that  one?  Who  gives  a  God  damn  about  auto  parts?  &quot;Can't  break  into  the  keiret-  su.&quot;  Well,  I,  for  one,  don't  want  to.  THE  NEW  YORKER  Where  was  I?  Bobby  Terwilliger  married  three  times.  First  of  all  to  my  sister  Boo.  Boo  had  a  little  walkout  with  Benji  Battapore  on  their  hon-  eymoon.  Benji  wasn't  much,  but  the  begum  took  exception  and  sent  janissary-type  fellows  to  rip  poor  Boo  out  of  his  arms.  (Poor  Boo.  Must  call  her.  Must  send  her  something  nice.  Noth-  ing  with  a  sharp  point,  though.)  On  the  other  hand,  it  wasn't  so  bad  for  Boo,  since  Benji  wasn't  much,  and  the  janissaries  were  a  little  more  in  her  line.  Boo  liked  them  stocky.  On  the  other  hand,  Bobby  was  fit  to  be  tied.  I  must  say  Bobby  was  almost  stuffy.  I  took  him  to  task  for  it  later.  &quot;Don't  be  a  begum,&quot;  I  said,  and  that  kind  of  caught  on  in  our  set.  If  any-  one  did  anything  stuffy  like  criti-  cize  another  fellow's  morals  because  he  happened  to  do  this  or  that  per-  fectly  ordinary  thing  that  anyone  would  do  if  he  got  the  chance,  we  would  say,  &quot;Don't  bea  begum.&quot;  I  started  that-people  saying  to  other  people,  &quot;Don't  bea  begum.&quot;  A  fellow  doesn't  want  to  be  ripping  people  out  of  other  people's  arms.  A  fellow  ought  to  be  casual;  I  always  am.  Try  to  be,  anyway.  It  is  a  little  grim  here  at  the  Hotel  Subaltern,  what  with  the  main  entrance  closed  and  all  of  us  trekking  in  the  back  way  through  that  grim  little  corridor  with  the  coconuts.  And  all  this  talk  about  Zkefretsu.  Must  call  Lottie  Penema.  Get  number  from  caseworker.  Talk  about  keiretsu-Bobby  Terwilliger  owned  all  the  sugar  in  the  world.  Did  I  say  that?  OoNnDaY,  3  a.m.  My  God.  We  had  all  the  girls.  That  wicked  little  Franny  Lynch  under  the  porch,  the  moonlight  peeking  through,  and  Meggy  Frawley  later  that  night  and  Sally  Von  Deusen  and  .  ..  Of  course,  a  fellow  wants  to  get  them  all  for  himself.  And  broad  beaches,  the  way  they  used  to  look-  as  far  as  the  eye  could  see.  &quot;No  Tres-  passing&quot;  if  you  let  everyone  in  you  spoil  it.  And  that  wonderful  night.  Do  you  remember  (I  ask  my-  self)  getting  up  in  the  full  starlight  and  slipping  out?  Down  at  the  dock,  the  rumrunners  were  coming  in.  All  those  wonderful  guys  running  rum.  Rum.  They  brought  it  in  on  floating  night  clubs.  Naturally,  you  couldn't  let  ev-  eryone  in  on  it.  You  kept  it  just  for  yourself  and  your  friends.  Oh,  but  they  let  me  in  on  it  that  night.  Talk  about  kefretsu,  Bobby  Terwil-  liger's  people  owned  all  the  sugar  in  the  world.  Damned  nice  moment  for  me-sort  of  an  opportunity  for  a  bon  mot:  this  rude-faced  fellow,  not  the  sort  of  fellow  one  knew  at  all,  came  up  to  Bobby  Terwilliger  one  time  and  started  in  about  all  the  women  and  children  picking  the  sugar  cane,  too  many  long  hours  in  the  sugar-cane  fields  (wherever  they  are),  and  so  forth;  I  just  said,  &quot;Don't  be  a  begum,&quot;  and  the  fellow  got  the  point  right  away  that  he  was  infra  dig,  and  then  Billy  Bronck  threw  him  out.  That  was  at  the  old  Ponco  Room,  which  was  terribly  hard  to  get  into  at  that  time,  talk  about  breaking  in.  Naturally,  one  wants  to  have  things  for  oneself,  but  it  doesn't  do  to  be  ripping  a  kefretsu  out  of  another  fellow's  arms.  One  thing  we  might  do,  though,  is  beef  up  the  obituaries  in  the  New  York  Times.  I  read  one  the  other  day  that  I  didn't  like.  There  was  this  fellow  gone  on  to  the  other  side  who  had  given  a  new  twist  to  advertising  back-pain  pills-written  a  little  jingle.  Didn't  seem  like  the  sort  of  thing  a  fellow  would  want  mentioned.  We  never  mentioned  a  little  backache,  let  alone  a  little  backache  pill,  let  alone  a  little  jingle  about  a  backache  pill,  and  we  were  the  best  set  of  fellows,  I  can  tell  you.  In  my  day  when  a  fellow  in  our  set  tottered  off  with-  out  having  much  in  the  way  of  an  ordinary  career  we  always  saidthat  he  was  a  &quot;clubman,&quot;  and  then  right  into  the  stories  about  the  Conestoga  wagons  and  how  fine-quality  mus-  lin  was  widely  available  in  those  days  and  how  his  grandfather  had  put  the  automobile-parts  business  in  the  Middle  West  on  a  more  rational  footing.  Showed  a  kind  of  respect-  for  the  pioneers,  for  the  automobile-  parts  business,  for  everyone.  I  think  we  should  go  back  to  showing  that  kind  of  respect.  The  4a6170616eese  re-  spect  that  kind  of  respect.  If  we  do  things  in  a  more  manly  way,  may-  be  they  will  let  us  into  one  or  two  of  their  kefretsu.  