 b"Sonny  drove  the  van  into  the  parking  lot  of  the  apartment  complex  on  the  highway.  He  drove  around  the  lot  until  he  found  the  right  door,  and  parked  close  to  it.  The  people  he  was  moving  were  a  few  years  older  than  him,  a  married  couple.  As  soon  as  he  walked  in  the  door  of  their  apartment  Sonny  knew  that  it  would  not  go  well.  The  husband  and  wife  had  been  fighting.  They  had  not  finished  packing.  And  they  were  upset  when  they  realized  that  all  they  were  getting  was  Sonny,  when  they  thought  they  had  hired  a  large  truck  and  a  crew  of  three.  Sonnyshowedthem  the  in-  voice  and  got  them  both  to  sign  it.  Then  he  went  over  to  the  refrigerator  and  put  his  hands  on  the  door  as  if  he'd  pick  it  up  right  then  and  carry  it  away.  He  let  go  of  it  and  opened  the  door  and  looked  inside.  &quot;This  going?&quot;  he  said.  The  wife  shook  her  head  and  Son-  ny  started  to  feel  a  little  better.  Three  trips  in  the  van,  maybe  four.  The  wife  had  been  packing  up  the  silverware  drawers,  wrapping  spoons  a  and  forks  in  sheets  of  a  newspaper.  She'd  been  crying.  Her  face  and  arms  were  smudged  with  news-  print,  but  shedid  not  seem  to  know  this.  &quot;I'm  sorry  we're  not  ready,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;That's  O.K.,&quot;  said  Sonny.  He  went  out  to  the  van  for  the  quilts  and  dolly.  Yesterday  afternoon  he  had  tried  to  pick  up  a  woman  at  the  movies,  at  the  matin\xc3\xa9e.  The  film  was  &quot;Platoon.&quot;  He  had  seen  it  before;  it  was  his  second  time.  He  sat  near  the  front  where  some  vets  were,  not  quite  with  them  but  close  enough  so  he  didn't  look  alone.  All  through  the  first  hour  of  the  movie  Sonny  had  the  feeling  that  some-  one  behind  him  was  watching  him.  Someone  was  boring  into  him  al-  most,  and  when  he  finally  turned  around  he  saw  that  a  woman  with  a  pale  and  serious  expression  was     staring  at  him  from  a  few  rows  back,  She  wasn't  more  than  thirty,  thirty-five.  She  was  alone;  there  was  hardly  anyone  else  in  the  theatre.  His  first  thought  was  that  the  woman  was  a  friend  of  his  wife's,  sending  hate  thoughts  his  way;  but  thenhe  shifted  in  his  seat  and  turned  around  again  and  met  her  eyes.  He'd  never  seen  her  before.  Every  time  he  looked  around  again,  four  or  five  times  in  the  next  twenty  minutes,  there  she  still  was,  staring  and  almost  smiling  at  him.  He  got  up  and  wentup  the  aisle.  She  looked  up  and  smiled  just  as  he  passed  her  row.  He  went  into  the  lobby.  He  had  the  sense  that  something  was  about  to  happen  to  him  that  would  change  his  whole  life.  He  felt  this  with  a  sudden  quiet  certainty-didn't  people  fall  into  the  arms  of  chance  all  the  time?  The  only  thing  he  had  to  write  on  was  his  invoicepad.  He  tore  a  sheet  off  and  wrote  his  name  and  phone  number.  He  couldn't  think  of  anything  else  to  say  so  he  left  it  alone.  He  went  back  in  the  theatre.  He  hadn't  thought  about  this  part,  and  couldn't  figure  out  if  he  should  leave  the  piece  of  paper  on  the  seat  beside  her  or  tap  her  on  the  shoulder  and  hand  it  to  her.  In  a  spasm  of  clumsiness,  he  ended  up  leaning  over,  and  it  fell  from  his  hand  to  her  lap.  In  the  blue-gray  shadowy  light  he  saw  the  woman  pull  back  with  fright  and  surprise.  He  saw  the  pinched  white  outline  of  her  face,  the  round  O  of  her  mouth-as  if  he  had  dropped  some-  thing  alive  on  her.  She  cried  out  in  a  whisper,  so  that  everyone  turned  around  and  looked  at  them,  &quot;What's  this!  What  do  you  think  you're  doing!&quot;  Sonny  turned  and  ran  up  the  aisle.  He  ran  out  to  the  sidewalk  and  gulped  in  great  breaths  of  air.  The  van  was  parked  at  the  curb,  and  as  he  made  his  way  to  it  he  wondered  if  people  who  were  losing  their  minds  ever  knew  it,  or  if  it  was  something  visible  only  to  other  people,  andyouhad  to  be  told.  NOW  Sonny  said  to  the  wife,  &quot;Is  your  phone  still  plugged  in?  I  have  to  call  my  office.&quot;  She  pointed  to  where  it  was,  on  a  table  in  their  den.  Sonny  picked  it  up  and  dialled  Debby's  num-  ber  at  work.  &quot;Amity  In-  surance,&quot;  said  a  voice  at  the  other  end.  Sonny  cupped  his  hand  at  the  mouthpiece.  &quot;Debby  Padgett  please,&quot;  he  said  quietly.  &quot;I'm  sorry,  but  there's  no  Debby  Padgett  here.  There's  a  Deb  Maitland.  Do  you  mean  Deb  Mait-  land?&quot;  &quot;Who's  this?  Marlene?  Listen,  this  is  Sonny.  I  want  to  talk  to  my  wife.&quot;  &quot;I  know  who  you  are,  Sonny.  Don't  hold  this  against  me,  O.K.?  But  if  you  call  I'm  supposed  to  tell  you  she's  out  on  break  or  something.&quot;  &quot;She's  right  there,  isn't  she,&quot;  said  Sonny.  &quot;Is  she  right  there  beside  you? " b"Tell  her  it's  her  brother.  I  only  want  to  talk  to  her  for  a  second.&quot;  &quot;She's  not  here.  I  wouldn't  lie  to  you,&quot;  said  the  voice.  &quot;Oh,&quot;  said  Sonny.  &quot;You  still  there?&quot;  &quot;'Yeah,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  don't  know,&quot;  said  Marlene.  &quot;Like  this  is  probably  not  the  right  time.  But  hey.  What  the  hell.  You  want  to  meet  me  for  a  drink  sometime?  Not  around  here,  it's  too  crazy.  You  want  to  come  over  to  my  house  sometime?  You  don't  have  to  worry  about  Billy,  if  that's  what  you're  thinking.  We  broke  up.  I  always  put  my  kids  to  bed  real  early,  and  Ial-  ways  have  food  in  the  house.  Don't  you  think  it's  a  little  weird  that  everyone  we  know  is  break-  ing  up?&quot;  &quot;Uh,  Jesus,  Marlene,&quot;  said  Sonny.  &quot;I'm  at  work.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know,  it's  no  big  deal,&quot;  said  Marlene.  &quot;I  mean,  it's  not  like  you're  letting  me  down  or  any-  thing.&quot;  &quot;I  gotta  go,&quot;  said  Sonny.  He  hung  up  the  phone  and  the  wife  said,  &quot;Is  everything  O.K.?&quot;  &quot;It's  great!&quot;  he  said.  BETWEEN  runs  to  the  couple's  new  house  in  town,  Sonny  decided  to  drive  by  High  Street  and  see  if  Debby  was  taking  her  lunch  break  at  Al's  or  the  Burger  King  or  the  pizza  place.  He  parked  the  van  on  the  corner  near  Al's  and  left  the  lights  flashing.  Al's  was  small.  Every  seat  at  the  counter  was  taken,  and  all  the  tables  along  the  side  were  filled.  When  Sonny  walked  in,  it  seemed  to  him  that  most  of  the  conver-  sations  stopped  abruptly,  like  some-  thing  dropped  into  water.  &quot;Black  cof-  fee  to  go,  Al,&quot;  he  said.  He  drank  a  little  standing  up  and  left  most  of  it  on  the  counter.  Sonny's  boss  was  Al's  brother-in-law,  so  there  wasn't  any  charge,  but  Sonny  puta  dollar  down  anyway.  &quot;How's  it  going,  Son,&quot;  Al  said.  &quot;It's  O.K.,&quot;  said  Sonny.  &quot;You  hanging  in  there?&quot;  &quot;Yeah,&quot;  said  Sonny.  Deb  wasn't  here.  Sonny  didn't  understand  how  all  these  people,  hanging  around  eating  and  making  small  talk  again,  looked  like  they  were  going  through  their  lives  very  smoothly,  as  if  nothing  was  wrong  with  them,  when  if  they  all told  the  truth  for  a  moment  they  couldn'tbe  much  better  off  than  he  was,  with  prongs  ofloneliness  stick-  ingout  through  his  skin,  and  the  feeling  that  anything  good  that  would  ever  take  place  must  have  already  happened.  &quot;Hear  business  ain't  too  good,&quot;  Al  said.  &quot;Sucks,  if  you  really  want  to  know,&quot;  said  Sonny.  Al  leaned  on  the  counter  and  said  in  a  lower  voice,  &quot;I  hear  they're  bidding  for  removal  at  the  Grains.  You  might  go  down  there.I  could  get  you  guys  in,  there's  this  Polish  lady  I  know.&quot;  &quot;We're  not  moving  no  trash,  Al,&quot;  said  Sonny.  He  turned  to  go,  and  a  man  at  the  other  end  of  the  counter  called  out,  &quot;Hey,  Son.&quot;  It  was  Jackie  Di  Tullio,  who  lived  a  few  houses  down  the  street  in  Sonny's  old  neighborhood.  &quot;Hey,  Jackie,&quot;  said  Sonny.  &quot;I  drove  byyour  ma's  this  morning.  She's  been  trying  to  call  you.  She  wants  you  to  come  over.  Something's  fucked  with  their  antenna  and  they  can't  get  stations.&quot;  Sonny  said,  &quot;Yeah,  O.K.&quot;  &quot;You  back  with  your  wife  yet,  or  what?&quot;  said  Jackie.  As  he  said  this  he  made  a  circle  ofhis  thumb  and  forefin-  ger  and  poked  it.  &quot;Put  a  bag  on  your  head,&quot;  Sonny  said.  'T  ake  it  easy,  Son,&quot;  said  Al.  Sonny  made  like  he  was  taking  back  the  dol-  lar,  but  Al  laughed  and  grabbed  it  first.  He  went  out  and  walked  down  the  block.  She  wasn't  in  the  pizza  shop.  He  felt  sure  he  was  going  to  see  her,  becausehe  had  willed  it  so  strongly,  and  he  kept  looking  into  parked  cars  and  the  carsthat  drove  by.  He  thought  she  might  be  zeroing  in  on  him,  hover-  ing  nearby  somewhere  like  a  balloon  at  the  end  of  a  string  with  her  face  drawn  on  it.  When  Sonny  was  a  boy,  his  mother  earned  money  by  taking  care  of  babies.  She  took  in  maybe  three  or  four  at  once,  between  the  ages  of  a  few  weeks  and  the  time  they  started  walking.  They  always  stopped  coming  before  they  were  toddlers  and  could  shoot  away  from  her  grasp  to  other  rooms.  She  kept  them  mostly  in  the  kitchen.  The  house  was  on  the  road  to  the  cereal  mill,  and  the  babies  were  the  children  of  the  neighborhood  women  who  worked  there.  They  came  around  to  the  house  in  the  morning,  and  Sonny  went  out  and  waited  for  them.  The  women  who  worked  as  grain  handlers  came  dressed  " b"for  the  mill,  in  loose  white  cotton  shifts  and  hairnets.  It  didn't  matter  to  Sonny  that  he  saw  them  all  the  time  intheir  ordinary  clothes,  sweeping  porches  and  driving  cars,  with  makeup  on,  going  past  him  like  he  wasn't  there.  Early  in  the  morning  when  he  waited  by  the  trees  near  the  kitchen  door,  the  phan-  tom  women  came  down  the  muddy  lines  of  the  flower  beds,  and  he  would  feel  the  upward  tilt  that  his  heart  made  as  he  went  to  meet  them.  Good  morn-  ing,  Sonny!  Good  morning,  Mrs.  Dawson!  Good  morning,  Mrs.  Lind-  quist!  And  he  would  try  to  touch  some  part  of  their  clothes  for  luck.  All  through  the  day  they  would  rise  and  bob  at  the  back  of  his  mind.  As  for  the  babies  in  the  kitchen,  crawling  around  with  their  mouths  always  open,  with  their  bath  things  and  changing  things,  the  smooth  sweet  look  of  their  skin,  the  mechanical  swing  and  the  playpens  and  all  the  teething  rings,  the  close  funky  smell  of  their  bodies  and  shit,  he'd  get  snapped  at  for  going  near  them;  he  was  not  allowed  to  touch  them,  as  if  he  were  some  kind  of  clod,  as  if  he  were  dan-  gerous.  He  left  the  van  where  it  was,  and  walked  down  to  the  Burger  King  and  ate  lunch  there.  He  walked  back  to  the  van  in  a  leisurely  way,  taking  his  time,  and  it  surprised  him  that  Debby  wasn't  sitting  there  waiting  for  him.  She  still  had  a  set  of  his  keys.  He  had  thought  he  would  find  her  slunk  down  in  the  passenger's  seat,  smoking  his  pot,  and  ready  to  take  him  back.  Suddenly,  Son-  ny  hated  her  for  something  she  said  once.  They  had  just  gotten  married,  and  his  mother  still  had  a  few  babies.  He  had  taken  Deb  to  visit  her  in  the  middle  of  the  day.  She'd  been  giving  them  baths.  She  had  held  up  a  wet  baby  in  the  air  above  the  sink,  with  dirty  dishes  all  around,  way  too  roughly,  Deb  had  thought.  She  had  looked  at  Sonny's  mother  with  horror.  Later  that  night  he  heard  her  talking  on  the  phone  to  one  of  her  friends.  &quot;You  wouldn't  believe  it,&quot;  she  had  said.  &quot;My  own  mother-in-law,  and  it  was  just  like  a  smokehouse  in  there,  with  these  pink  baby  hams  all  over  the  place.  Poor  Sonny!&quot;  SONNY  parked  the  van  in  his  parents'  driveway.  Before  he  went  into  the  house  he  walked  around  the  yard  to  take  a  look  at  the  television  antenna. A couple  of  rods  were  dangling,  and  he  saw  that  he  would  have  to  replace  it.  Since  Sonny  had  married  Deb  and  moved  out,his  mother  had  developed  some  habits  that  struck  him  as  peculiar,  butthey  weren't  as  strange  as  some  of  the  things  he  had  observed  in  other  retirees  as  he  bundled  up  their  lives  and  moved  their  furniture,  or  helped  move  their  stuff  into  storage,  and  theysquab-  bled  about  the  bill,  and  would  kill  him,  just  take  out  aknife  from  one  of  the  boxes  and  kill  him,  if  he  didn't  knock  an  hour  or  so  off  the  total,  and  charge  less  on  account  of  their  age,  their  crabbed-up  bitter  old  age,  like  it  was  all  his  fault.  But  when  Sonny  walked  be-  hind  them  in  slow  steps,  down  the  path  from  the  house  they  were  leaving,  with everything  they  had  in  his  van,  they  were  as  timid  and  frail  as  small  birds.  Sonny's  mother  came  to  the  door  to  meet  him.  She  was  sixty-eight  years  old.  She  was  wearing  a  pairof  plaid  Bermuda  shorts,  wool  socks  that  went  exactly  to  the  middle  of  her  knees,  a  fisherman-style  canvas  vest  with  a  lot  of  pockets,  a  pairof  brown  leather  shoes  with  tiny  orange  tags  that  said  &quot;Rock-  port,&quot;  and,  under  the  vest,  a  turtleneck  jersey  she  must  have  bought  at  a  yard  sale,  from  the  bureau  of  some  twelve-  year-old  girl.  It  had  faint  purple  tulips  on  it,  faded  and  bleached  from  wash-  ings.  She  was  always  dressed  like  some-  one  about  to  go  walking  alone.  The  other  strange  thing  about  her  was  that  she  was  a  small  woman  butshe  didn't  seem  to  beshrinking.  He'd  seen  a  lot  of  oldpeople  getting  smaller.  Every  time  he  came  to  see  his  mother  he  expected  -he  prepared  himself-to  find  hera  few  inches  shorter;  but  it  seemed  that  the  opposite  was  happening.  It  wasn't  that  she  seemed  to  be  expanding,  but  Sonny  now  had  the  sense  that,  with  the  gray-white  shock  of  her  hair,  which  " b"she  never  tied  back  any-  more,  she  was  larger  than  he'd  thought.  He  wondered  if  this  was  something  he'd  made  up  for  himself  because  he  wouldn't  be  able  to  stand  it  if  she  slowed  down  and  diminished-not  his  moth-  er,  not  now,  when  Debby  had  left  him.  There  were  seedlings  in  Dixie  cups  all  over  the  kitchen  counters.  The  fry-  ing  pan  on  the  stove  was  covered  in  a  thin  white  lay-  er  of  grease.  Near  the  sink  were  the  remains  of  lunch:  canned  corn  and  brown-'n'-  serve  sausage  patties  and  the  outer  leaves  of  some-  thing  that  looked  like  let-  tuce  but  not  quite-it  wasn't  green  enough.  How  could  he  tell  her  that  the  sight  of  it  turned  him  stony  with  fear,  that  she  was  not  to  go  far  from  the  house,  and  must  stay  away  from  the  woods,  and  never  pick  anything  wild  and  eat  it,  because  she  might  pick  something  wrong,  some  mushroom,  some  poisonous  spore,  some  plant  that  would  keel  her  right  over?  He  said  to  her,  &quot;How's  it  going?  Everything  O.K.  with  Pa?&quot;  &quot;Don't  wake  him.  Don't  go  in  there,&quot;  she  said  quickly.  &quot;O.K.,&quot;  Sonny  whispered.  &quot;You  ain't  had  TV?&quot;  &quot;Your  father  thinks  the  antenna  broke  because  all  those  sparrows  sat  on  it,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;That's  crazy,  Ma.  It's  not  birds.  The  wind  snapped  it  over.  Tell  him  I'll  go  out  to  the  mall  after  work  and  buy  a  new  one.  They've  got  them  at  Radio  Shack.&quot;  &quot;How  much?&quot;  said  Sonny's  mother,  her  eyes  bright.  &quot;I  don't  know.  Twenty  or  thirty  bucks,&quot;  said  Sonny.  &quot;It's  no  big  deal,  I'll  get  it.&quot;  She  started  to  walk  over  to  the  count-  er  where  her  purse  was.  &quot;I'll  just  give  you  a  few  dollars  for  gas,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I'm  out  of  here,  [REDACTED];  said  Sonny.  IT  had  started  to  rain.  When  Sonny  pulled  of  the  highway  again,  the  last  thing  he  expected  to  see  was  the  couple  he  was  moving  out  on  the  sidewalk,  but  there  they  were,  by  the  door  of  their  building,  in  the  drizzle,  with  cartons  of  their  things  all  around.  The  wife  held  out  her  arm  and  waved  at  Sonny  and  looked  at  her  watch  and  pointed  to  it.  The  husband  held  one  of  their  kitchen  chairs.  He  had  just  car-  ried  it  from  the  apartment.  He  looked  at  Sonny  as  if  he  wanted  to  throw  it  through  the  windshield.  Sonny  reached  over  and  pushed  his  ashtray  shut.  He  had  smoked  a  small  part  of  a  joint  on  the  way.  He  was  a  little  high,  but  he  was  O.K.  about  driving,  he  was  used  to  it.  He  drove  up  alongside  them.  He  rolled  down  the  window  and  said,  and  hoped  this  was  true,  &quot;I  tried  to  call  you  but  they  shut  off  your  phone.&quot;  The  wife  walked  over  to  the  van.  Sonny  didn't  know  if  she  could  smell  the  pot.  She  didn't  seem  to,  but  he  still  felt  nervous.  The  only  time  he'd  been  busted  he'd  been  alone  in  his  car.  The  police  pulled  him  over.  They  burned  a  light  in  his  face  and  took  the  six-pack  that  he  had  on  his  back  seat,  plus  the  beer  in  his  hand  that  he'd  been  drink-  ing.  In  his  glove  compartment  they  found  a  baggie  with  seeds  and  part  of  a  joint,  but  just  left  it.  He  knew  they  had  let  him  off  easy  because  he  had  just  finished  high  school.  They  gave  you  two  or  three  years  to  settle  down  before  they  tried  to  bust  you  for  real,  and  the  first  thing  they  asked  was  &quot;Are  you  married?&quot;  &quot;My  phone's  off?&quot;  said  the  wife.  &quot;But  I  just  got  done  talking  to  my  sister.&quot;  &quot;I  had  a  flat,&quot;  said  Sonny.  &quot;On  the  road  near  your  new  house.&quot;  He  had  only  this  last  run  to  do.  After  that,  he  didn't  know  yet.  Going  home  by  himself  was  like  going  home  to  a  hole.  The  apartment  was  the  one  he  had  livedin  with  Debby  for  six  years,  buther  smell  was  gone.  There  was  no  trace  of  her  anymore  in  a  towel  or  pillow  or  blanket  or  sheet.  He  got  out  of  the  van.  He  saidto  the  couple,  &quot;If  you  pay  me  now,  I  won't  have  to  come  back.&quot;  They  paid  him  in  cash.  Most  of  it  was  small  bills.  The  husband  handed  over  the  money  very  slowly  from  a  roll  of  bills  inhis  hand.  He  must  have  had  several  hundred  dollars.  He  said,  &quot;I  " b"don't  want  to  give  you  a  hard  time  about  this,  but  listen.  I'm  not  too  crazy  about  tipping  people  when  the  service  isn't  quite  up  to  par,  ifyou  get  what  I  mean.&quot;  &quot;Hey,  that's  O.K.,&quot;  said  Sonny.  &quot;He  had  to  change  a  flat  tire,&quot;  said  the  wife.  As  the  husband  paid  Sonny,  she  stood  next  to  him  and  watched  with  an  anxious  expression.  She  was  count-  ing  along.  Her  lips  were  mouthing  the  numbers.  The  husband  gave  her  a  look  that  was  narrow-eyed  and  frowning,  and  in  the  pause  Sonny  saw  his  oppor-  tunity.  The  next  bill  the  husband  would  peel  off  was  a  twenty.  In  a  low  voice,  just  a  mumble  behind  his  teeth,  Sonny  said,  &quot;I  hope  you  didn't  rob  no  toll  booth.&quot;  &quot;What  did  you  say?&quot;  said  the  hus-  band.  Distracted,  he  handed  the  next  bill  to  Sonny  without  looking  at  it.  The  wife  hadn't  seen  it  either,  and  Sonny  started  clowning  around.  He  acted  as  if  the  weight  of  all  the  bills  the  husband  was  giving  him  would  break  his  hand.  He  made  like  he'd  drop  the  money,  then  quickly  slipped  the  twenty  below  a  sin-  gle.  He  held  up  the  single  and  showed  the  husband,  who  just  blinked;  so  Son-  ny  had  his  tip.  The  wife  said,  &quot;We  haven't  had  this  much  cash  on  us  at  once  since  the  day  we  got  married.&quot;  She  looked  at  Sonny.  &quot;Are  you  married?&quot;  &quot;Yeah,&quot;  he  said.  He  and  Debby  had  held  their  wedding  recep-  tion  at  the  Holiday  Inn  on  the  highway.  When  it  was  over  and  they  came  out  to  the  limou-  sine  again-or  stag-  gered  out  half  blind,  at  least  on  Sonny's  part,  for  he  had  gotten, without  meaning  to,  incredibly  drunk-  they  saw  that  the  big  sign  in  front  had  been  altered.  At  the  start  of  the  reception  it  had  said,  &quot;Goop  Luck  Dressy  anp  Sonny.&quot;  Someone  had  changed  the  first  letter  of  &quot;Luck&quot;  to  &quot;F,&quot;  and  she  had  burst  into  tears.  Was  that  it?  Should  he  have  gotten   a  ladder  from  somewhere  and  changed  it  back? ALL through  the  spring  one  year,  when  Sonny  was  twenty  and  Deb  was  nineteen,  he  had  had  the  feeling  she  was  drifting  toward  him,  at  parties  and  bars  around  town.  Most  of  their  friends,  and  nearly  everyone  they'd  gone  to  school  with,  had  moved  away  or  had  disappeared  into  houses  and  had  families.  There  had  never  been  a  time  when  he  realized  he  loved  her.  But  sometimes  when  he  was  looking  across  a  room  at  her,  or  across  a  bar,  he  had  the  strange  feeling  that  if  he  and  Deb  got  up  and  started  walking  toward  each  other  they  would  pass  through  each  other  in  a  certain  way,  with  a  feeling  of  lightness,  and  a  prickliness,  the  way  fireflies  swarm  trees  and  then  you  can't  quite  see  any  branches.  One  night  when  Sonny  was  hanging  around  the  back  room  at  Quill's,  Joey  Quill,  the  bartender,  came  up  to  him  and  said,  &quot;You  better  come  out  to  the  front,  Son.  I  shut  off  your  girlfriend.&quot;  It  was  summer.  The  bar  was  crowd-  ed  and  hot.  The  back  of  Sonny's  shirt  was  like  a  clammy  extra  layer  of  skin. He  looked  around.  It  was  almost  too  dark  to  see  faces.  She  wasn't  here.  He  put  his  beer  on  the  counter  and  went  outside.  He  looked  for  her  in  the  parking  lot.  In  the  heavy,  hazy  air,  with  the  night  sky  dropped  low,  people  were  walking  here  and  there  in  aimless  small  groups,  in  couples,  or  by  themselves.  He  looked  over  the  topsof  the  cars.  His  guess  was  that  if  Deb  had  flipped  out,  or  if  she'd  gotten  too  drunk,  she  would  have  gone  somewhere  up.  She  would  have  climbed  up  on  something.  This  was  something  he  felt  he  knew  about  her.  He  looked  up  through  the  trees.  There  was  treat-  ed  dope  going  around.  It  put  an  opi-  umlike  glaze  on  things.  One  night  when  Sonny  was  sitting  at  the  bar,  the  wall  infront  of  him  had  begun  to  melt.  It  wasn't  anything  he  couldn't  handle.  But  two  wood  panels  of  the  wall  had  split  open,  and  Sonny  had  the  urge  to  crawl  under  the  bar  and  lie  there  as  still  as  a  napkin.  &quot;Here  I  am,&quot;  called  Deb,  in  a  small,  sad  voice.  She  was  standing  on  a  grassy  hill  above  the  parking  lot.  She  was  drunk,  but  at  least  she  wasn't  crying.  She  leaned  against  Sonny  so  her  head  was  tucked  under  his  arm.  &quot;Did  you  smoke  any  shit  tonight?&quot;  said  Sonny.  Deb  shook  her  head.  \xc2\xab'What's  the  mat-  ter?&quot;  She  didn't  answer.  She  just  pressed  herself  against  him  a  little  harder.  They  hadn't  made  love  yet,  but  Son-  ny  knew  they  were  get-  ting  close.  When  he  thought  about  what  it  would  feel  like  with  her,  he  hoped  the  first  time  would  be  furious  and  quick  and  star-  tling,  like  two  rac-  coons.  Deb  had  a  job  at  a  dry  cleaner's  then.  It  was  an  isolated  place  at  the  lower  end  of  Main  Street,  with  a  plate-  glass  window.  Sonny  drove  by  sometimes,  and  if  the  glass  wasn't  fogged  he  saw  Deb  at  the  counter  as  she  talked  to  a  customer  or     " b"stood  by  the  cash  register,  staring  out  with  a  blank  expression.  Sonny  imag-  ined  himself  going  quietly  in  there,  past  the  pressers  and  tailors.  He'd  go  in  on  his  knees  if  he  had  to.  Deb  wore  tight  jeans  to  work,  but  Sonny  dressed  her  inhis  mind  in  loose  flowered  long  skirts  like  the  hippies  used  to  wear.  Then  he'd  lift  up  her  skirt  and  get  under  it,  with  the  van  still  running  outside,  and  what  would  they  say  to  that,  hey?  &quot;Come  on,  Deb,  I'll  walk  you  home,&quot;  said  Sonny.  She  made  a  whimpering  sound  against  him  like  she  hated  the  thought  of  moving.  She  looked  around  the  park-  ing  lot  and  said,  &quot;Haven't  you  got  your  car?&quot;  &quot;No,  sweetie,&quot;  said  Sonny.  He  was  glad  she  was  too  drunk  to  notice  it.  It  was  sitting  not  fifty  feet  away  in  the  parking  lot.  He  drove  a  white  Corvair  then;  he  hadn't  been  working  at  the  movers'  long  enough  to  take  out  the  van  on  his  own.  He  didn't  want  Debby  in  his  car.  The  floor  on  the  passenger's  side  was  rusted.  Most  of  it  had  fallen  away,  and  he  found  himself  seized  with  the  fear  that  she'd  step  down  too  hard  on  the  mat  and  her  feet  would  go  through,  and  then  the  rest  of  her  would  slip  away  also,  into  some  sucking  thing  below  them  like  a  vortex,  and  he  would  lose  her  forever.  Was  that  love?  HE  returned  to  the  Burger  King  for  supper.  There  was  a  pay  phone  near  the  door.  He  couldn'thelp  him-  self;  he  went  over  to  it.  Anyway,  there  was  a  woman  at  the  counter  who  had  waited  on  him  at  lunch,  and  he  didn't  feel  like  having  her  recognize  him.  Should  he  call  her?  He  didn't  know.  She  was  staying  at  her  mother's.  No,  wait.  She'd  moved  in  there.  He  was  not  on  safe  ground  with  himself,  and  he  knew  this.  To  hold  himself  steady,  he  started  ticking  off  in  his  head  the  names  of  white  blues  electric  guitarists  and  white  blues  bands:  Traffic,  Jimmy  Page,  Grand  Funk,  Little  Feat,  George  Harrison.  He  couldn't  believe  he  kept  including  George  Harrison.  What  about  Eric  Clapton?  He  was  off  the  list  for  making  beer  commercials,  the  whore.  And  why  did  he  have  to  keep  straining  like  this,  when  she  had  told  him  herself  she  used  to  love  him  but  it  had  died?  She  had  picked  up  a  bag  she  had  packed.  He  had  seen  the  way  she  held  it  near  her  chest,  like  a  shield.  &quot;We're  breaking  up?&quot;  he  said,  and  she  nodded.  &quot;I  am  very  unhappy,  Sonny,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;And  I  never  would  have  thought  that  I  could  feel  so  disap-  pointed.&quot;  He  picked  up  the  phone,  looked  at  it.  He  hung  it  back  up.  The  woman  who  had  been  there  at  lunch  hadgone  into  the  dining  room  to  clean  it,  and  Sonny  went  to  the  counter  and  ordered  take-  out.  He  drove  the  van  to  the  back  of  the  parking  lot,  away  from  the  lights,  and  ate  quickly.  He  was  glad  it  was  too  foggy  to  see  the  sky.  It  was  still  a  winter  sky,  and  it  was  still  just  Orion  up  there,  night  after  night,  silver  and  hollow  and  massive.  All  he  had  to  do  was  hear  those  words  of  hers,  &quot;I  am  &amp;  very  unhappy,&quot;  and  he  was  crouched  like  a  dog  again  at  the  end  oftheir  couch,  watching  her  leave  him.  He  opened  the  door  and  poured  out  the  Coke  he  had  bought.  He  balled  up  his  trash  and  went  over  and  threw  it  in  the  bin.  He  got  back  in  the  van.  No  streamers  of  moonlight  came  down.  It  was  dark;  it  was  after  twilight.  He  unlocked  the  glove  compartment  and  took  out  a  joint  of  some  mild  old  home-  grown  he  had,  and  smoked  half  of  it.  He  slid  down  in  the  seat  and  held  up  the  joint  like  a  cigarette.  He  looked  up  at  the  night  through  the  steering  wheel.  Somewhere,  he  thought,  the  world  was  tipping  on  its  axis  toward  spring,  but  it  didn't  feel  like  that  here. "