 b"I WANT  to  tell  you  something,  I  have  to  tell  someone.  I  have  to  talk.  I  suddenly  understood  that  you  are  the  only  person  left  who  will  know  what  I'm  talking  about.  Has  that  hap-  pened  to  you?  You  suddenly  think,  My  God,  that  was  twenty,  thirty  years  ago  and  I  am  the  onlyperson  left  who  knows  what  really  happened.  Do  you  remember  Caesar?  Remem-  ber  I  worked  for  him?  Do  you-most  people  have  forgotten.  We  called  him  Caesar.  ...  He  never  knew  it,  of  course.  Because  he  used  to  say,  &quot;I'm  going  to  conquer  [REDACTED].&quot;  Remember  that?  If  you  do,  then  youand  I  are  the  only  people  left  who  do.  Well,  Caesar's  son  married  my  daughter  last  weekend.  ...  Yes,  exactly,  you  can't  improve  on  life,  can  you?  Life:  God's  little  script-  writer.  But  you  only  know  the  half  of  it,  listen!  Did  you  ever  meet  Robert,  Caesar's  son?  If  you  did  he  must  have  been  an  infant.  Well,  he's  turned  out  a  charm-  ing  boy,  sweet,  but  really,  really  nice.  Ten  years  ago  he  rang  me  at  the  office  and  asked  me  out  to  dinner.  He  was  fourteen.  I  was  struck  dumb.  Well,  as  far  as  I  can  bestruck  dumb.  I  was  so  tickled-of  course  I  said  yes.  But  wait  THE  TRUTH?  until  you  hear  where.  It  was  at  the  Berengaria.  Yes,  quite  so.  I  don't  know  what  I  expected,  but  he  did  it  all  per-  fectly.  He  might  have  been  thirty-five,  this  kid,  this  baby,  he  called  for  me  in  a  taxi  with  flowers,  in  a  hired  suit.  He  had  booked  a  table  and  gone  in  to  discuss  it  all  with  the  headwaiter.  The  waiters  were  hovering  about  like  nannies;  they  were  tickled  out  of  their  wits,  because  of  this  kid  and  me-of  course  they  knew  me  for  years,  I  used  to  go  there  with  Caesar,  or  I  went  in  to  arrange  special  dinners  for  him.  He  used  to  talkas  if  it  were  Ais  restaurant.  ...  Are  you  getting  the  picture?  Not  by  a  nod  or  a  beck  didthe  waiters  embarrass  him,  they  were  wonderful.  I  sat  there  going  mad  with  curiosity.  Fourteen.  Then  I  thought,  All  right,  we  are  all  mad  at  fourteen,  forget  it.  And  I  was  busy  then,  as  usual.  But  it  must  have  cost  him  fifty  quid.  Where  did  he  get  it?  Not  from  his  father,  that  mean  old  .  ..  The  next  thing,  he  writes  me  a  letter  on  best-quality  ivory-vellum  notepaper,  with  his  name  printed  on  it,  Robert  Meredith  Stone,  asking  me  to  go  for  a  walk  in  St.  James's  Park  and  then  for  tea  at  the  Ritz.  Wait  a  minute,  Ithought,  just  wait  a  minute.  ...  It's  time  to  do  some  thinking.  Dinner  at  the  Berengaria,  fair  enough,  it  was  Caesar's  place,  but  a  walk  in  the  park?  Caesar  has  never  set  foot  off  a  [REDACTED]  pavement.  He  proba-  bly  doesn't  know  a  daffodil  from  a  rose.  In  his  old  agehe  sits  like  asour  old  goat,  grumping  at  nineteen-thirties  films  on  the  video-don't  imagine  he  limps  about  the  garden  philosophizing  while  heprunes  the  roses.  Marie  has  always  done  the  gardening.  I  thought  it  all  over,  but  really  thought,  and  then  I  asked  Marie  for  lunch.  I  needed  to  talk  to  her  without  Caesar's  knowing,  I  didn't  want  to  give  poor  Robert  away.  I  hadn't  seen  Marie  for  years.  We  always  got  on,  if  you  can  call  it  that,  having  nothing  in  common  but  behav-  ing  well.  She's  old  these  days,  she's  decided  to  be  an  old  woman.  I'm  damned  if  I  will  yet.  I  mean,  it's  a  lot  of  effort  to  let  yourself  get  old,  you  have  to  change  your  clothes,  your  style,  ev-  erything.  It's  all  right  for  her,she's  got  time  for  all  that,  she's  never  had  to  work  in  her  life.  Of  courseshe  was  curious  to  know  what  it  was  all  about,  and  I  didn't  know  how  to  start.  As  soon  as  I  saw  her  I  realized  I  couldn't  ask.  What  was  I  to  say?  Tell  me,  does  your  Robert  think  that  your  Caesar  and  I  had  an  af-  fair  and,  if  so,  what's  all  this  about  strolls  in  St.  James's  Park  and  feed-  ing  the  ducks?  She  thought  it  was  ev-  er  so  sweet  of  me  to  ask  her  for  lunch,  but  she's  got  vague,  she  started  to  talk  about  Caesar's  girlfriends.  &quot;I  never  minded,&quot;  said  she,  &quot;not  after  the  first.  .  ..&quot;  And  then  she  made  a  joke,  yes,  actually  a  joke.  &quot;It's  the  first  one  that  counts,  you  know,  le  premier  pas  gui  cofite,  and  he  always  had  such  nice  women,&quot;  paying  me  a  compli-  ment,  noblesse  oblige.  &quot;And  I  never  did  like  sex,&quot;  she  says,  &quot;or  per-  haps  I  wasn't  lucky  with  Caesar,  or  he  wasn't  lucky  with  me.&quot;  I  swear  she  was  ready  for  me  to  tell  her  how  I  had  found  " b"her  Caesar  in  bed,  and  I  understood  something  at  that  moment,  it  struck  me  all  of  a  heap,  it  struck  me  dumb-yes,  all  right,  but  I  told  you  I  had  to  te/k.  Now,  this  is  the  point.  It  was  always  important  to  me  that  I  never  slept  with  Caesar,  but  it  was  exactly  at  that  mo-  ment,  eating  a  healthful  salad  with  Caesar's  wife-ha-ha,  how  absolutely  apropos-that  I  knew  how  important  it  was,  a  point  of  pride.  And  now  it  mattered  to  her  so  little  that  she  didn't  even  remember  I  had  gone  to  her  and  said,  &quot;Look  here,  Marie,  I  don't  know  what  anyone  else  thinks  and  I  don't  care,  but  it  matters  to  me  what  you  think.  I  am  not  sleeping  with  your  husband,  and  I  never  did.&quot;  She  didn't  remember  I  had  gone  specially  to  tell  her.  She  looked  at  me  vaguely,  and  said,  &quot;Oh  yes?  Did  you?  Funny,  I  forget  things.  ...  But  I  didn't  mind,  you  know.&quot;  She  minded  all  right.  She's  decided  to  forget  that.  Whether  she  believed  me  or  not  she  minded  like  hell,  and  I  minded  her  minding.  Because  I  was  innocent.  It  was  just  the  same  having  lunch  with  her  as  it  had  been  then,  because  the  one  thing  I  couldn't  say  was  the  most  important  thing:  Your  husband  is  a  mean,  scrimping,  penny-  wise  tightfist,  and  he's  killed  me  with  overwork,he  always  has  to  work  people  he  employs  to  the  bone,  and  he  has  to  underpay  them.  Never  mind  about  sleeping  with  me,  I  would  have  liked  to  say,  then  and  at  lunch  that  day,  but  working  with  that  little  Scrooge  never  left  much  energy  for  sex.  Have  you  forgotten  how  it  was  with  me  then?  I  had  two  kids-but  do  you  remember?  The  funny  thing  is,  meet-  ing  people  in  public  life,  professional  life,  you  meet  them  as  individuals,  but  what's  important  about  them,  often,  is  what  you  don't  see.  In  my  case  it  was  two  small  children  and  an  ex-husband  who  sometimes  came  through  with  a  few  quid  but  more  often  didn't.  I  was  being  paid  asenior  typist's  wage  when  I  ran  Caesar's  office  for  him,  I  was  his  girl  Friday,  I  organized  everything,  and  it  was  I  who  had  the  contacts,  I  knew  everyone  in  the  field  when  he  was  a  newcomer  in  it.  I  used  to  set  up  whole  shows  for  him,  and  he'd  take  the  credit.  I  used  to  work  from  eight  in  the  morn-  ing  till  eleven,  twelve,  one  at  night.  I  made  that  man,  and  he  knew  it,  too,  but  if  he'dpaid  me  he'd  be  admitting  just  what  my  real  worth  to  him  was.  I'm  not  saying  he  wouldn't  have  succeeded  without  me,  but  if  heconquered  [REDACTED]-because  he  did,  we  did,  he  was  known  everywhere  and  not  just  in  this  country,  he  was  a  name  in  [REDACTED]  and  Germany-  if  he  did  all  that  it  was  because  of  me.  Then  oneday  I  was  so  exhausted  I  couldn't  get  out  of  bed.  I  telephoned  the  office  and  said  right,  that  was  it,  I  was  giving  him  notice,  I  couldn't  stand  it.  I  had  to  get  a  job  that  paid  me  properly.  I  was  in  debt  for  the  rent.  I  couldn't  even  pay  for  the  children's  clothes,  and  their  father  had  been  out  of  work  for  months-he  was  an  actor,  it  wasn't  his  fault.  Suddenly  there  is  Caesar  ringing  the  doorbell,for  the  first  time,  and  I'd  been  working  for  him  ten  years  then.  He  comes  in,  he  looks  around.  Two  rooms  and  a  bath-  room,  oh  yes,  it  was  a  decent  little  place,  I  wasn't  going  to  let  the  kids  go  without,  but  I  slept  in  the  living  room  and  they  had  the  other  room.  &quot;Nice  place,&quot;  says  Caesar,  sniffing  about,  pricing  everything,  &quot;you  do  yourself  well.&quot;  And  he  with  his  bloody  great  house  at  [REDACTED].  I  got  back  into  bed  and  actually  went  to  sleep,  I  was  so  #//  I  didn't  care.  &quot;You  can't  just  give  me  notice,&quot;  he  says,  waking  me  up.  &quot;I  am  giving  you  notice,&quot;  I  say.  To  cut  it  short,  he  put  up  my  salary  a  few  quid  a  month,  it  was  enough  to  pay  off  some  of  my  debts.  I  still  wasn't  earning  as  much  as  a  good  P.R.  girl.  &quot;You  can't  leave  me,&quot;  he  says,  and  I  remember  the  tone  of  his  voice-that  was  what  struck  me  dumb,  as  if  Z  had  treated  him  badly.  All  those  years  he  had  been  trying  to  get  into  bed  with  me.  Particularly  when  we  went  on  trips.  I  never  would.  Partly  because  I  didn't  go  for  him  much,  and  partly  because  it  was  a  ques-  tionof  self-respect.  It  was  more,  it  was  survival.  I  couldn't  let  him  take  me  over  entirely.  He  owned  my  working  self,  but  as  for  the  rest.  ..  .  You're  still  wondering  why  I  stayed  with  him?  I  remember  you  asked  me,  why  stay  with  him,  when  you  could  earn  four  times  the  salary?  The  point  is,  I  fitted  that  job  of  his  like  a  .  ..  I  and  thejob  had  grown  up  together.  ...I  had  made  that  job,  made  him.  He  knew  I  wouldn't  be  able  to  give  it  up.  He  knew  that  in  some  funny  way  we  stood  and  fell  together.  ...  We  matched,  his  tal-  ents  and  mine,  we  were  a  team.  But  he  got  rich,  did  you  know?  He  was  a  millionaire.  Typically,  heused  to  say,  &quot;What's  a  million  these  days?&quot;  And  I  wasn't  going  to  say,  &quot;If  it's  nothing,  then  give  me  a  little  of  it.&quot;  Pride.  O.K.,  O.K.,  sometimes  I  do  wonder  about  that.  .  ..  But  I  think  what  I  felt  was,  If  I  can  stand  this  I  can  stand  anything.  I  felt  strong.  ...  I  felt  indestructible.  You  did  think  I  slept  withhim,  didn't  you?  Everyone  did.  He  made  " b" sure  everyone  did.  He'd  speak  of  me  in  a  certain  way,  he'd  put  on  that  smile.  ...  If  there  was  a  big  do,  a  first  night  or  something,  he'd  take  me  in  on  his  arm  and  make  sure  everyone  noticed.  Caesar  and  his  mistress.  I  went  along  with  it,  but  I'd  give  him  a  look-and  he  understood,  all  right.  It  was  a  battle,  a  fight  to  the  death.  I  was  saying,  All  right,  but  youand  I  know  the  truth.  I'm  not  your  woman  and  never  shall  be.  That  went  on  for  years.  And  then  they  offered  me  thejob  I  have  now,  and  that  coincided  with  Caesar's  decid-  ing  he'd  had  enough,  time  to  put  his  feet  up.  And  all  these  years  I've  been  think-  ing,  You  old  goat,  you  little  gauleiter,  but  I  never  slept  with  you.  And  there  I  was  sitting  opposite  old  Marie  and  suddenly  I  realized  she  had  forgotten  all  about  it  and  didn't  care.  And  that  made  me  feel  ..  .  I  felt  that  I  was  collapsing  inside  somewhere.  It  had  been  so  important  to  me.  But  at  least  during  the  lunch  I  un-  derstood  what  had  happened.  ...  His  kids  were  still  small  when  I  finished  working  for  Caesar.  But  as  they  grew  up  they  would  hear  him  talking  about  me  in  that  proprietary  way  of  his.  Robert  would  have  got  the  idea.  Mean-  while  I  was  going  from  strength  to  strength.  I'm  very  visible,  you  know. When  I  was  working  for  him  it  was  one  thing-everyone  had  to  think  his  girl  Friday  slept  with  him.  But  for  a  long  time  now  he'd  have  had  good  reason  to  boast  about  me.  If  you  are  wondering,  But  where  did  Robert  get  the  idea  about  little  walks  in  the  park  and  tea  at  the  Ritz-well,  God  knows.  But  he's  a  dear,  sweet,  lovely  boy,  he's  nice,  I  mean  nice  in  himself,  he's  a  romantic,  and  so  he  would  think  that  little  strolls  in  the  park  and  tea  at  the  Ritz  are  part  of  the  perfect  love  affair.  He  wrote  me  love  letters.  He  obvi-  ously  copied  them  from  some  pattern  letters.  Or  perhaps  he  got  them  out  of  a  novel.  I  was  absolutely  wowed  bythem,  they  were  like  something  from  the  eighteenth  century-well,  perhaps  they  were.  I'd  wait  a  few  days  and  then  send  him  a  couple  of  tickets  to  a  playor  a  first  night.  I'd  see  him  there  with  a  girl,  and  then  it  was  with  my  daughter  Sonia.  Do  you  remember  her?  She's  beautiful.  Yes,  all  right,  I  can  say  it  now.  ...  She's  like  me  when  I  was  young.  And  that  is  the  point.  Robert  started  taking  her  out  regu-  larly.  I  thought  nothing  of  it.  I  was  busy.  I've  only  just  realized  how  hard  I've  worked.  Why  did  I  have  to?  What  was  it  all  about?  O.K.,  I  had  to  work  myself  silly  when  I  had  to  support  the  children,  but  even  when  they  are  off  my  of  peace.  She  stands  as  if  underwater  in  it,  listening  to  the  house  and  all  its  stunned  tongues  gather  round  her  heart:  rumors  of  being  rush  into  the  moment,  flutter  there  forever.  A  bus  coughs  by  on  Clareville  Road,  footsteps  syncopate  through  rain,  a  bicycle  bell  rings  in  the  dark,  squeak  squeak  of  pedals  pushing  against  the  wind  and  hill.  She's  frozen  in  the  moment  between  closed  doors,  light  spilling  over  head  and  shoulders  onto  her  shoes.  Now  she's  moved  into  their  front  bedroom  where  she  stands,  the  light  unlit,  at  the  window,  inching  the  curtains  back  to  look:  bright  slant  darts  of  rain  flying  and  flashing  in  the  street  lamp's  radiant  arch,  the  street  slick  and  empty.  Then  a  hurrying  figure,  the  little  brickish  click  of  high  heels  on  stone.  But  still  no  sign,  he  doesn't  come.  One  red  bud  of  pain  hands-if  you  can  call  it  that,  none  of  them  are  ever  off  our  hands  these  days.  But  at  least  they  wouldn't  starve  if  you  said,  Enough,  that's  it,  I've  had  it,  don't  expect  any  more  from  me.  Do  you  know  one  reason  I  would  never  say  that?  Because  I  wouldn't  want  to  be  as  mean  as  Caesar,  that's  why.  Then,  about  ayear  ago,  Marie  rings  me-worldly-wise,  you  know  -and  she  says,  &quot;W  hat  do  you  think  about  our  Robert  and  your  Sonia?  They're  get-  ting  married.  We  told  him,  'You  are  too  young,&quot;  but  of  course  none  of  them  listen.&quot;  I'm  sure  you've  already  worked  it  all  out.  Robert  has  always  wanted  to  be  Caesar  the  Second.  But.  He's  not  ambi-  tious,  you  see.  He  doesn't  know  what  ambition  is.  He  works  nicely  in  that  advertising  office  and  dreams  about  be-  ing  Caesar,  but  he  doesn't  make  the  connection  somewhere.  ...  You  need  to  kill  yourself  working  or  get  someone  else  to  kill  themselves  working  for  you.  ...  He's  toonice  to  be  successful,  do  you  see?  But  if  he  can  get  his  father's  mistress  then  he's  halfway  there.  Are  you  wondering  how  much  of  this  my  Sonia  sees?  Not  much.  She  thinks  I  was  Caesar's  mistress  and  hates  me  for  it.  Once  I  said  to  her,  &quot;Sonia,  you  two  children  and  I  were  stuck  together  in  two  rooms  until  you  " b"were  twenty.  You  know  I  didn't  have  men.  Where  would  I  have  put  them?&quot;  &quot;What  about  those  trips?&quot;  she  says,  catching  me  out.  I  said,  &quot;Sonia,  I  was  so  tired  every  night,  often  enough  I  used  to  fall  into  bed  with  all  my  clothes  on.&quot;  Well,  actually  I  did  have  the  occasional  little  fling,  when  I  had  the  energy,  which  wasn't  often.  But  that  has  nothing  to  dowith  her.  But  I  understood  some-  thing.  .  ..  She's  never  worked  hard  in  her  life.  She  doesn't  know  what  work-  ing  hard  means.  She  doesn't  know  what  it  means  to  be  so  tired  you're  scared  to  let  go  even  half  an  inch,  because  if  you  did  everything  would  fall  to  pieces.  And  she  will  never  know,  because  Rob-  ert  looks  after  her  as  if  she  were  a  precious  kitten  thatwill  never  grow  up.  He  must  think  that's  how  his  father  looked  after  me.  He's  so  decent  that  it  would  never  enter  his  head  to  think  otherwise.  Caesar  was  a  sweet,  kind  father  figure,  so  that's  what  he's  going  to  be,  too.  To  cut  it  short,  the  wedding  was  last  Saturday.  We  had  six  hundred  guests.  All  of  show  business-television,  ra-  dio,  theatre,  everything.  On  Caesar's  side  a  bit  reminiscent,  because  he's  been  retired  for  so  long.  And  there  we  were:  Marie,  mother  of  the  bridegroom;  Caesar,  father  of  the  of  wardrobes,  down  the  sheer  drop  of  sleep.  bridegroom;  Sonia's  daddy-but  he's  always  been  a  bit  noises-off,  not  that  it's  his  fault;  and  me,  mother  of  the  bride.  And  when  it  came  to  photographs  ...  no,  wait,  here's  the  nitty-gritty.  Robert  suddenly  came  forward  and  took  charge.  Suddenly  I  saw  him  as  Caesar.  Do  you  remember  that  deadly  quiet  bloody-mindedness,  that  determi-  nation-smiling  all  the  time,  but  no  one  was  going  to  get  in  his  way?  That  was  Robert,  all  last  Saturday  afternoon.  It  was  absolutely  essential  that  he  get  a  photograph  of  himself  and  Sonia  with  me  and  Caesar  standing  on  either  side,  and  then  a  picture  of  us  standing  be-  hind  them,  and  then  sitting  in  front-  and  so  on,  over  and  over.  It  was  embar-  rassing.  Daddy  and  his  famous  mis-  tress,  and  Daddy's  son  and  the  mistress  as  she  used  to  be.  All  afternoon  people  were  saying  to  me,  &quot;God,  derling,  but  your  daughter  looks  exactly  as  you  used  to.&quot;  Well,  I  kept  giving  Caesar  looks,  the  way  I  always  had,  but  he  didn't  know  what  was  going  on.  I  swear,  when  some  men  retire  they  just  give  up  all  their  zous-I  swear,  in  the  old  days  he  would  have  seen  it  all,  even  if  he  wouldn't  admit  it.  What  he  did  mot  see  was  that  all  his  awful  ruthless  single-  mindedness-I  came,  I  saw,  I  conquered-was  there  in  his  son,  but  fo-  cussed  on  just  one  pathetic  thing:  that  he  should  marry  Daddy's  mistress.  And  I  felt  more  and  more  ..  .  that  I  didn't  exist.  Do  you  understand?  Well.  It  was  ever  such  a  gemutlich  ceremony,  it  was  a  wonderful  party,  a  good  time  was  had  by  all,  and  when  the  happy  couple  went  off  to  4974616c79-my  treat-my  daughtergave  me  a  look  of  puretriumph,  though  God  knows  what  she  thinks  she's  triumphing  about.  And  he,  that  sweet  boy,  he  kissed  me,  the  sort  of  kiss  alover  gives  you-goodbye  for  ever.  And  the  point  is,  this  is  the  point,  this  is  the  absolutely  bloody  point.  .  ..  There  is  no  way  I  could  ever  say  to  anyone,  and  I  hardly  dare  think  it,  in  case  I  come  out  with  it  by  mistake,  No,  I  was  not  Caesar's  mistress,  never,  I  never  so  much  as  kissed  him-because  that  would  be  the  whole  basis  of  that  sweet  boy's  life  gone.  The  whole  thing  -focussing  on  Sonia,  cutting  out  all  her  other  suitors,  marrying  her  publicly  in  front  ofhis  father's  world  and  mine,  treating  the  girl  like  a  prize  puppy-all  nothing,  based  on  nothing  at  all.  Nada.  And  there's  no  one  I  can  talk  to  about  it,  no  one  I  can  tell.  .  .  .  Except  you.  Well,  darling,  do  the  same  for  you  some  time. "