 b"SO  much  dead  wood  and  garbage  in  our  lives,  pretense,  dishonesty.  How  torid  ourselves  of  it,  move  on  to  richer,  deeper  things?  How  to  shuck  these  lures  and  snares  and  give  the  beauty  within  us  room  to  grow?  How  to  be  more  the  person  we  set  out  to  be  when  we  were  nineteen,  instead  of  this  dull,  greedy  old  weasel  snarfing  all  the  food  on  the  plate?  These  ques-  tions  began  to  bear  down  on  me  a  few  years  ago,  when  I  was  en  route  to  San  Francisco  for  a  conference  on  Birthing  Our  Self-  Affirmation  of  Wellness,  and  looked  through  my  briefcase  bulging  with  (believe  it  ornot)  twigs  and  grass  clippings  and  dry  leaves,  and  could  not  find  my  home  telephone  number  or  remember  where  I  lived.  Suddenly  I  recalled  Thoreau's  advice,  &quot;Simplify,  simplify.&quot;  So  the  next  week,  during  a  retreat  at  the  Bobist  Institute,  I  wrote  down  my  ideas  on  the  subject,  and  the  result  was  &quot;Being  the  Person  You  Are.&quot;  I  never  thought  this  little  book  would  cut  much  timber  in  the  self-  esteem  field,  up  against  giants  like  Wayne  Dyer  and  Leo  Buscaglia,  but  so  far  it  has  sold  sixty-seven  million  copies  in  more  than  eleven  languages  and  seventeen  dialects.  So  many  people  have  told  me  that  the  book  completely     changed  their  lives,  and  others  have  had  their  lives  changed  partially.  It  changed  mine,  too.  I  got  rich  and  gained  sixty  pounds  and  lost  my  hair  and  lived  in  various  Sheraton  hotels  andbecame  a  big  lumbering  galoot  with  bleeding  cuticles,  climbing  in  and  out  of  limos  and  wearing  a  rug.  And  though  I  could  afford  a  good  one-  not  nylon-still  I  felt  stressed,  tense,  owly;  and  the  baldness  affected  my  balance,  so  I  was  liable  at  any  time  to  topple  over  into  a  heap  for  no  apparent  reason.  Doctors  puzzled  over  this.  One  morning,  I  woke  up  in  Santa  Fe,  fully  dressed,  sprawled  across  a  hotel  bed,  my  pants  moist  from  creamy  desserts  stuffed  in  my  pockets.  I  was  registered  there  under  the  name  Santana  Diego,  Ph.D.,  and  a  pink  name  tag  was  gummed  to  my  breast  pocket.  I  had  no  idea  how  I  got  there  or  if  I  was  sched-  uled  to  give  a  speech.  I  still  was  not  absolutely  clear  on  my  current  address.  What  day  was  it  now,  I  wondered.  And  where  was  Mona?  I  thought,  You've  got  to  do  some-  thingabout  this,  Al.  So  I  wrote  &quot;Rebirthing  the  Me  You  Used  to  Be,&quot;  and  that  sucker  sold  eighty  million  copies.  In  fact,  it's  still  selling.  Nobody  can  understand  it.  It's  a  phenomenon.Thirty  languages,  including  a  New  [REDACTED]  tribal  dialect  in  which  my  book  was  the  first  written  literature.  Through  an  interpreter,  the  chief,  a  man  named  Wallace  Boogada,  invited  me  to  come  and  be  their  deity.  Evident-  ly,  &quot;Rebirthing&quot;  struck  a  chord  there  somewhere.  The  book  rang  my  doorbell,  too.  It  reawakened  the  desire  to  simplify  my  life.  I  believe  this  was  in  1983.  I  decid-  ed  to  take  the  loot  andbuy  a  mountain  and  build  a  log  lodge  on  top  and  move  up  there  with  nothing  butdry  clothes  and  a  notepad  and  some  coffee  beans  and  warm  bedding  and  a  Scout  knife.I  desperately  needed  to  put  my  priorities  in  order.  Then  I  was  offered  a  lecture  tour:  &quot;An  Evening  with  Dr.  Al  Den-  ny&quot;  -ninety  evenings  in  ninety  cities,  at  fifty  thousand  dollars  a  shot.  So  I  did  it,  and  the  tour  was  standing  room  only:  hockey  arenas  packed  with  quiet,  intense  people;  press  conferences;  autographing  sessions;  people  fawning  over  my  every  word-the  works.  I'd  say,  &quot;Hi,  how  are  you?&quot;  and  someone  would  say,  &quot;Yes!  Of  course!  How  are  you!  It's  not  the  whereness,  or  the  whyness,  or  the  whoness  of  the  you,  it's  how!  How!&quot;  People  adulated  me,  and  I  became  involved  in  the  child-  rebirthing  movement,  the  re-aging  movement,  the  chrysalis  movement,  the  campaign  to  introduce  polarity  into  the  public  schools,  and  the  success  of  the  tour  led  to  a  cable-  TV  show  of  my  own,  &quot;The  Circle  of  Life,  with  Dr.  Al  Denny,&quot;  which  I  got  through  a  man  named  Danny,  who  told  me  I  had  a  unique  gift  for  one-on-one.  It  turned  out  he  was  a  cable  broadcaster  himself.  SO  I  moved  to  [REDACTED].  Didn't  move  exactly,  because  I  still  couldn't  rememberwhere  Mona  was  and  couldn't  pack  up  my  stuff,  so  I  opened  up  a  new  home  in  Santa  Monica.  It  came  fully  furnished,  even  things  like  toothpaste  and  night-light  and  wine  carafe,  throw  rugs,  accent  pieces  provided.  Danny  took  care  of  it.  We  taped  the  show  at  Danny's  Shalimar  Studios,  in  43616e616461Hol-  lywood,  and  Danny  and  his  wife,  Monique,  became  more  or  less  a  second  family  to  me,  since  I  had  lost  track  of  Mona  and  the  chil-  dren.  Mona  and  I  had  been  mar-  " b"ried  for  twenty-four  years,  but  I  was  never  clear  on  exactly  what  she  did-  some  sort  of  teaching,  I  believe,  or  investment  services-so  it  was  hard  to  track  her  down.  She  was  the  primary  child-care  giver,  what  with  me  gone  so  much,  and  I  wasn't  dead  certain  how  many  we  had,  whether  it  was  three  or  four.  But  Danny  and  Monique  and  her  brother  Bill  (or  Bob)  and  I  became  very  close,  and  I  often  went  there  for  din-  ner.  I  recall  that  we  went  fishing  once.  It  may  have  been  in  the  mountains,  perhaps  in  [REDACTED].  East  of  [REDACTED],  at  any  rate.  On  the  show-whose  ratings,  by  the  way,  were  the  highest  of  any  first-year  cable  talk  show  -I  chatted  with  per-  sons  who  had  gained  particular  life  wisdom,  such  as  quilt  makers  and  wood-carvers  and  Southern  people  and  farmers  and  old  blues  singers  and  old  ballplayers  and  old  shepherds  and  guys  named  Walt.  I  was  deeply  moved  by  their  simple  philosophies,  but  it  was  also  conflicting  for  me.  I  thought,  Al,  you  don't  believe  a  word  they  say.  Why  do  you  sit  and  nod  and  say  &quot;Uh-huh&quot;?  For  example,  they  all  said  that  the  best  things  in  life  are  spiritual,  while  I  myself  was  in  a  very  acquisitive  stage  of  life.  I  owned  four  Bentleys.  I  owned  immense  oil  paintings.  I  owned  four  farms,  three  of  which  I  had  never  seen.  I  owned  a  hundred  and  sixty-four  cases  of  a  1952  Bordeaux  that  I  loved  to  drink  with  a  particular  kind  of  lobster  that  had  to  be  flown  in  live  from  Mindanao.  I  kept  buying  sweaters  and  loafers  and  those  baggy  pants  with  the  fronts  that  pooch  out.  I  purchased  dogs  by  the  dozen  and  kept  losing  track  of  them.  I'd  leave  them  in  stores,  in  the  dressing  rooms,  and  forget  which  store.  One  day  on  the  show,  I  had  a  heavyset  gal  from  Mobile  who  made  art  from  bread  bags  and  said  that  she  felt  lucky  just  to  be  alive,  and  the  very  same  day  I  paid  thirty-seven  thousand  dollars  for  a  CD  player.  It  was  like  that  a  lot  of  the  time.  Out  of  a  sharp  sense  of  contradic-  tions,  I  wrote  &quot;Co-Existing  with  Your  Other  Self,&quot;  which  did  not  do  as  well  as  &quot;Rebirthing&quot;  but  sold  ten  million  copies.  In  some  ways,  it  was  my  favor-  ite  book.  It  had  a  blue  cover  with  some  sort  of  primitive  masks  on  it.  The  day  &quot;Co-Existing&quot;  hit  No.  1  on  the  best-seller  list,  I  had  on  the  show  a  child  Autoharp  player  named  Little Ginny.  We  never  booked  children  on  the  show,  but  Danny  said,  &quot;Ithinkshe  is  an  angel  sent  from  God,&quot;  which  he  seldom  says  about  anyone.  She  died  a  few  days  afterward,  of  a  mysterious  raging  fever.  She  was  an  assertive  little  tyke,  and  she  spoke  right  up  in  her  sickly  voice  and  told  you  what  she  thought.  She  wasn't  whiny  or  grumpy.  When  I  asked  her  what  her  name  was,  she  said,  &quot;God  gives  us  new  names  after  we  die,  and  I  want  to  be  a  [REDACTED],  but  right  now  I'm  Ginny.&quot;  I'll  never  forget  the  hush  in  the  studio  when  that  tiny,  pale  blond  child  limped  to  the  couch  in  her  pure-white  dress,  lugging  the  harp,  and  climbed  up,  and  sat,  her  chin  on  her  chest,  listing  to  one  side,  and  softly  strummed  &quot;Oh,  Dem  Golden  Stairs!&quot;  and  faintly  sang,  &quot;I'se  goin'  up  de  ribbah  wheah  de  golden  rainbow  shine,&quot;  as  her  rela-  tives  collapsed,  sobbing,  in  the  wings.  Afterward,  the  audience  clapped  and  clapped  until  our  production  people  had  to  make  them  stop.  At  this  point,  she  was  supposed  to  tell  me  a  folktale  about  a  mother  hen  and  her  chicks,  but  instead  she  climbed  up  on  my  lap  and  draped  her  skinny  arm  around  my  neck  and  put  her  little  cheek  next  to  mine.  My  gosh,  she  was  hot,  burning  up  with  fever,  and  sweat  poured  off  her.  An  extremely  hot,  damp  child.  A  bead  of  her  sweat  fell  on  the  back  of  my  hand,  and-this  sounds  insensitive,  I  know,  but  I  didn't  know  if  her  illness  was  contagious  or  not-I  thought  to  myself,  Al,  you  need  a  fatal  disease  right  now  like  you  need  a  hole  in  the  head.  So  I  tried  to  pryher  loose,  but  her  bony  fingers  were  clamped  onto  my  wrist  and  my  lapel,  and  when  I  tried  to  bend  her  fingers  back  she  just  flopped  around,  and  her  eyes  rolled,  so  I  tried  to  signal  Danny  with  my  eyebrows  to  come  and  take  this  hot  potato  off  my  hands.  But  he  was  over-  come  with  emotion,  I  guess,  and  when  I  tried  to  stand  up  she  clung  to  me  like  a  bat  and  tore  the  rug  off  my  head.  And  then  Little  Ginny  pressed  her  burning  face  to  mine  and  whispered  in  her  hoarse  little  voice,  &quot;God  says  to  cut  out  this  shit.  He  says  to  stop  it  and  shape  up.&quot;  I  knew  right  then  that  my  career  had  peaked  and  that  the  long  grim  slide  had  begun.  I  said,  &quot;Friends  and  neighbors,  I  know  this  show  is  one  I'll  remember  as  long  as  I  live.  What  do  you  say  we  invite  Little  Ginny  to  come  back  next  week?&quot;  Everybody  clapped  again,  but  Little  Ginny  looked  at  me  with  pure  disgust.  She  said,  &quot;Don't  be  stupid.  You  know  I'll  be  in  my  grave  next  week.&quot;  And  " b"she  was  right.  As  I  mentioned,  she  died  a  few  days  later.  A  few  weeks  later,  aguest  from  [REDACTED],  who  raised  vegetables  with  human-looking  features  and  who  lived  in  a  little  mountain  holler  the  size  of  a  deep  freeze,  told  me  that  Southern  sick  children  possess  great  wisdom,  and  that  folks  come  from  miles  around  to  sit  by  their  beds  and  hear  what  they  have  to  say.  Sometimes  a  child  will  burst  into  rapturous  revelation,  and  the  people,  members  of  an  oral  tradition,  will  tell  their  friends,  &quot;Roy  and  Esther's  little  boy  Spud  saysthat  all  is  one  and  we're  each  part  of  the  whole,  pass  it  on.&quot;  So  maybe  God  did  say  what  she  said  He  said,  but  what  was  I  sup-  posed  to  cut  out?  A  person  could  buy  less  stuff  and  start  giving  mon-  ey  away,  but  where  do  you  draw  the  line?  There's  the  heart  fund  and  the  bladder  fund  and  the  Save  the  Snakes  Foundation  and  the  Center  for  the  Dull,  and  there's  a  cabdriver  whose  old  mom  is  waiting  to  come  over  from  Nestorenko,  and  a  waitress  with  a  slight  limp,  and  who  do  you  say  no  to?  You  say  no,  and  bitter,  accusing  people  will  lurk  around  your  home  and  attack  you  with  coat  hangers.  No,  arich  man  can't  buy  peace  of  mind.  I  discussed  this  in  &quot;Empowering  Others  by  Enabling  Yourself,&quot;  my  fourth  book-the  book  I  had  always  wanted  to  write,  the  big  one,  the  one  that  really  attacked  the  ethical  prob-  lems  of  affluence  head  on,  the  one  I  dedicated  &quot;To  the  late  Little  Ginny,  always  in  my  thoughts.&quot;  It  was  the  first  book  published  by  the  Dr.  Al  Denny  Press-located  at  the  Dr.  Al  Denny  Study  Center,  Hotel,  and  Production  Facility,  on  Mount  Pleasant,  in  a  six-  hundred-acre  theme  park  with  deer  and  buffalo  and  a  pioneer  village  with  au-  thentic  homes,  stores,  etc.,  which  Dan-  ny  set  up  for  me-and  I'm  sure  the  book  would  have  sold  millions,  but  before  it  hit  the  stores,  bang,  the  sky  collapsed.  The  Denny  Savings  Insti-  tute-darned  if  I  hadn't  forgotten  all  about  this!'-suddenly  became  insolvent  when  the  people  who  had  mailed  in  money  on  the  guarantee  that  they  could  live  at  the  hotel  in  their  declining  years  and  be  rebirthed  and  pet  the  deer  and  enjoy  eternal  happiness  began  cashing  in  their  Life  Savings  Certificates.  Sev-  eral  men  in  sharkskin  suits  arrived  at  my  door  and  confiscated  everything-  everything  but  my  extra  socks  and  un-  derwear.  Danny,  who  always  handled  these  things,  was  gone.  One  minute,  I  was  ensconced  amidst  walnut  panelling  and  soft  leather  and  ankle-deep  carpets,  and  the  next  moment  I  was  on  a  curb  by  the  bus  depot,  shining  a  flashlight  in  the  air.  BANKRUPTCY  gave  my  life  a  simplicity  it  had  never  had  before.  I  moved  into  a  small,  clean  room  at  the  Y.M.C.A.  and  awoke  every  morning  at  five  to  do  a  hundred  sit-ups  and  eat  RyKrisp  and  read  a  few  verses  of  Scrip-  ture.  I  whizzed  through  Lamentations  in  no  time,  read  Job,  worked  out,  lost  weight,  worked  as  a  dishwasher  at  a  tony  restaurant,  and  it  was  there  thata  reporter  spotted  me  and  wrote  a  long  where-are-they-now  story  that  eventu-  ally  reached  Akron,  [REDACTED],  where,  as  it  turns  out,  I  live.  And  Mona  saw  the  story  and,  along  with  our  three  (as  it  turned  out)  beautiful  and  healthy  daughters,  who,  by  the  way,  all  have  her  red  hair  and  big  beak  and  melting  brown  eyes,  came  and  found  me.  She  forgave  me  completely.  &quot;Al,  you  big  wombat,&quot;  she  said,  throwing  her  arm  over  my  shoulder.  &quot;Do  you  know  I'm  still  nuts  about  you?  You're  a  stinker  and  you  oughta  be  locked  up,  but  what  can  I  say?  I  love  you.  I  can't  help  it.&quot;  And  we  all  drove  back  to  Akron  and  now  I  am  a  regular  daddy  again  instead  of  a  big  cheese.  I  have  promised  the  kiddos  not  to  write  a  book.  I  secretly  began  one,  called  &quot;Starting  Over&quot;-I  couldn't  help  myself!  -but  fortunately  I  have  nothing  more  to  say  on  the  subject.  I  said  everything  there  is  to  say  about  rebirth  before  I  knew  anything  about  it.  An  author's  fate-to  write  the  books  and  then  go  and  live  them.  So  I  devote  myself  to  fatherhood,  cooking,  and  my  dishwashing  job,  the  best  one  I  ever  had.  You  stand  in  the  steaming  scul-  lery,  stripped  to  the  waist,  spraying  the  garbage  off  the  plates  and  racking  them  up  and  heaving  the  racks  onto  the  conveyor  and  hauling  the  clean  stuff  off  the  other  end  and  stacking  it  by  the  steam  table,  and  after  three  hours  you  feel  like  a  new  man.  You  open  the  back  door  to  let  out  the  steam,  and  you  stand  and  take  a  deep  breath,  and  briefly  all  is  clean  and  in  order  and  all  that  is  wrong  is  forgotten.  Praise  God  for  His  goodness! "