 b"WHEN  Farrell  signed  up,  with  seven  other  aging  members  of  his  local  Long  Island  club,  for  a  week  of  golf  at  the  Royal  Caledonian  Links,  in  [REDACTED],  he  didn't  foresee  the  relationship  with  the  caddies.  Hunched  little  men  in  billed  tweed  caps  and  rub-  berized  rain  suits,  they  huddled  in  the  misty  gloom  as  the  morning  foursomes  got  organized,  and  reclustered  after  lunch,  muttering  as  unintelligibly  as  sparrows,  for  the  day's  second  eighteen.  Farrell  would  never  have  played  thirty-six  holes  a  day  in  [REDACTED],  let  alone  walked  the  distance,  but  here  in  [REDACTED]  golf  was  not  an  accessory  to  life,  drawing  upon  one's  marginal  en-  ergy;  it  was  life,  played  out  of  the  center  of  one's  being.  At  first,  stepping  forth  on  legs  one  of  which  had  been  broken  in  a  college  football  game  forty  years  before,  and  which  damp  weather  or  a  night  of  twisted  sleep  still  provoked  to  a  reminiscent  twinge,  he  missed  the  silky  glide  and  swerve  of  the  accus-  tomed  electric  cart,  its  magic-carpet  suspension  above  the  whispering  fair-  way;  he  missed  the  rattle  of  spare  balls  in  theretaining  shelf,  and  the  round  plastic  holes  to  hold  drinks,  alcoholic  or  carbonated,  and  the  friendly  pres-  ence  on  the  seat  beside  him  of  another  gray-haired  sportsman,  another  warty  pickle  blanching  in  the  brine  of  time,  exuding  forbearance  and  the  expecta-  tion  of  forbearance,  and  resigned,  like  Farrell,  to  a  golfing  mediocrity  that  would  gradually  make  its  way  down  the  sloping  dogleg  of  decrepitude  to  the  level  green  of  death.  Here,  however,  on  the  heather-  rimmed  fairways,cut  as  close  as  putting  surfaces  back  home,  yet  with  no  trace  of  mower  tracks,  and  cheerfully  marred  by  the  scratchings  and  burrows  of  the  nocturnal  rabbits  that  lived  and  bred  beneath  the  impenetrably  thorny,  waist-high  gorse,  energy  came  up  through  the  turf,  as  if  Farrell's  cleats  were  making  contact  with  primal  spir-  its  beneath  the  soil,  and  he  felt  he  could  walk  forever.  The  rolling  and  treeless  terrain,  the  proximity  of  the  wind-  whipped  sea,  the  rain  that  came  and  went  with  the  suddenness  of  thought  composed  the  ancient  matrix  of  the  game,  and  the  darkly  muttering  caddies  were  also  part  of  this  matrix.  That  first  morning,  in  the  drizzly  shuffle  around  the  golf  bags,  his  bag  was  hoisted  up  by  a  hunched  shadow  who,  as  they  walked  together  in  pursuit  of  Farrell's  first  drive  (good  contact,  but  pulled  to  the  left,  toward  some  shaggy  mounds),  muttered  half  to  him-  self,  with  those  hiccups  or  glottal  stops  the  Scots  accent  inserts,  &quot;Sandy's  wha'  they  call  me.&quot;  Farrell  hesitated,  then  confessed,  &quot;Gus.&quot;  His  given  name,  Augustus,  had  always  embarrassed  him,  but  its  short-  ened  version  seemed  a  little  short  on  dignity,  and  at  the  office,  as  he  had  ascended  in  rank,  his  colleagues  had  settled  on  his  initials,  &quot;A.D.&quot;  &quot;Here,  ye  want  tae  geh  oover  the  second  boosh  fra'  th'  laift,&quot;  Sandy  said,  handing  Farrell  a  7-iron.  The  green  was  out  of  sight  behind  the  shaggy  mounds,  which  were  covered  with  long  tan  grass  that  whitened  in  waves  as  gusts  flattened  it.  &quot;What's  the  distance?&quot;  Farrell  was  accustomed  to  yardage  markers-yel-  low  stakes,  or  sprinkler  heads.  The  caddie  looked  reflectively  at  a  sand  bunker  not  far  off,  and  then  at  the  winking  red  signal  light  on  the  train  tracks  beyond,  and  finally  at  a  large  bird,  a  gull  or  a  crow,  winging  against  the  wind  beneath  the  low,  tattered,  blue-  black  clouds.  &quot;Ah  hunnert  thirty-eight  tae  the  edge  of  the  green,  near  a  hun-  nert  fifty  tae  the  pin,  where  they  ha'  *t.&quot;  &quot;I  can't  hit  a  7-iron  a  hundred  fifty.  I  can't  hit  it  even  one  forty,  against  this  wind.&quot;  Yet  the  caddie's  fist,  in  a  fingerless  wool  glove,  did  not  withdraw  the  of-  fered  club.  &quot;Seven's  what  ye  need.&quot;  As  Farrell  bent  his  face  to  the  ball,  the  wet  wind  cut  across  his  eyes  and  made  him  cry.  His  tears  turned  the  ball  into  two;  he  sup-  posed  the  brighter  one  was  real.  He  concentrated  on  taking  the  club  head  away  slowly  and  low,  initiating  his  downswing  with  a  twitch  of  the  left  hip,  and  suppressing  his  tendency  to  dip  the  right  shoulder.  The  shot  seemed  sweet,  soaring  with  a  gentle  draw  up  precisely  over  the  second  bush.  He  looked  toward  the  caddie,  expecting  congratulations  or  at  least  some  small  sign  of  shared  pleasure.  But  the  man,  his  creased  face  weathered  the  strange-  ly  even  brown  of  a  white  actor  playing  Othello,  followed  the  flight  of  the  ball  as  he  had  that  of  the  crow,  reflectively.  &quot;Yer  right  hand's  a  wee  bit  froward,&quot;  33  he  observed,  and  the  ball-  they  saw  as  they  climbed  to  the  green-was  indeed  pulled  to  the  left,  in  a  deep  pot  bunker.  Furthermore,  it  was  fifteen  yards  short.  The  caddie  had  underclubbed  him,  but  showed  no  sign  of  remorse  as  he  hand-  ed  Farrell  the  sand  wedge.  In  Sandy's  dyed-looking  face,  pallid  gray  eyes  showed  like  touches  of  morning  light;  it  shocked  Farrell  to  realize  that  the  other  man,  weathered  though  he  was,  and  bent  beneath  the  weight  of  a  per-  petual  golf  bag,  was  younger  than  him-  self-a  prematurely  wizened  Celt,  or  Pict,  serving  one  of  [REDACTED]  Ameri-  ca's  tall,  bloated  Anglo-Saxons.  The  side  of  the  bunker  toward  the  hole  was  as  tall  as  Farrell  and  sheer,  built  up  of  bricks  of  sod  in  a  way  never  seen  at  Long  Island  courses.  Rattled,  irritated  at  having  been  unrepentantly  underclubbed,  Farrell  swung  five  times  into  the  damp,  brown  sand,  darker  than  any  sand  on  Long  Island.  With  each  swing,  the  ball  thudded  beneath  the  trap's  high  lip  and  dribbled  back  at  his  feet.  &quot;Hit  at  it  well  beheend,&quot;  the  caddie  advised,  &quot;and  dinna  stop  the  cloob.&quot;  Farrell's  sixth  swing  brought  the  ball  bobbling  up  onto  the  green,  within  six  feet  of  the  hole.  His  fellow  556e6974656420537461746573ns  lavished  iron-  ical  praise  on  the  shot,  butthe  caddie,  with  deadpan  solemnity,  handed  him  his  putter.  &quot;Ae  ball  tae  th'  laift,&quot;  he  advised,  and  Farrell  was  so  interested  in  this  peculiar  phrase-the  ball  as  a  unit  of  measure-that  his  putt  stopped  short.  &quot;Ye  forgot  tae  hit  it,  Gus,&quot;  Sandy  told  him.  Farrell  tersely  nodded.  Tingling  with  nervousness,  he  felt  onstage  and  obliged  to  keep  up  a  show  of  the  stoic  virtues.  Asked  for  hisscore,  he  said  loudly,  in  a  theatrical  voice,  P7  &quot;That  was  an  honest  ten.&quot;  It  Tr  ing  556e6974656420537461746573n  way.  &quot;We'll  call  it  a  six,&quot;  said  the  player  keeping  score,  in  the  forgiv-  As  the  round  progressed,  through  a  rapid  alternation  of  brisk  showers  and  silvery  sunshine,  with  rainbows  springing  up  around  them  and  tiny  white  daisies  gleaming  underfoot,  Farrell  and  his  caddie  began  to  grow  into  each  other,  as  a  foot  in  damp  weather  grows  into  a  shoe.  Sandy  con-  sistently  handed  Farrell  a  club  too  short  to  make  the  green,  but  Farrell  came  to  accept  the  failureas  his;  his  caddie  was  handing  the  club  to  the  stronger  golfer  latent  in  Farrell,  and  it  was  Farrell's  job  to  let  this  superior  performer  out,  to  " b"release  him  from  his  stiff,  soft,  more  than  middle-aged  body.  On  the  twelfth  hole,  call\xc3\xa9d  &quot;Dunrobin'&quot;'-a  seemingly  endless  par  5  with  a  broad  stretch  of  fairway,  bleak  and  vaguely  restless  like  the  surface  of  the  moon,  receding  over  a  distant  edge  marked  by  two  small  pot  bunkers  and  a  pale-green  arm  of  gorse  that  extended  from  the  rabbit-under-  mined  thickets  on  the  left-his  drive  clicked.  Something  about  the  ghostly  emptiness  of  this  particular  hole's  ter-  rain,  the  featurelessness  of  it,  removed  Farrell's  physical  inhibitions;  he  felt  the  steel  shaft  of  the  driver  bend  in  an  elastic  curve  at  his  back,  and  a  corre-  sponding  springiness  awaken  in  his  knees,  and  knew,  as  his  weight  smooth-  ly  moved  from  the  right  foot  to  the  left,  that  he  would  bring  the  club  face  squarely  into  the  ball,  and  indeed  did,  so  that  the  ball-the  last  of  his  new  Titleists,  the  others  having  disappeared  in  gorse  and  heather  and  cliffside  scree  -was  melting  into  the  drizzle  straight  ahead  almost  before  he  looked  up,  his  head  heldsideways,  as  if  pillowed  on  his  right  ear,  just  like  the  heads  of  the  pros  on  television.  &quot;O.K.?&quot;  he  asked  Sandy,  mock-modest  but  also  genuinely  fearful  of  some  hazard,  some  trick  of  the  layout,  that  he  had  missed  taking  into  account.  &quot;Bonnie  shot,  [REDACTED];  the  caddie  said,  and  his  face,  as  if  touched  by  a  magic  wand,  crumpled  into  a  smile  full  of  crooked  gray  teeth,  his  constantly  relit  cigarette  adhering  to  one  corner.  Small  matter  that  Farrell,  striving  for  a  repe-  tition  of  this  scarcely  precedented  dis-  tance,  topped  the  following  3-wood,  hit  a5-iron  fat,  and  skulled  his  wedge  shot  clear  across  the  elevated  green.  He  had  for  a  second  awakened  the  golf  giant  sleeping  among  his  muscles,  and  imag-  inedhimself  vindicated  in  the  other  man's  not  quite  colorless,  not  quite  indifferent  eyes.  INNER,  for  this  week  of  ex-  cursion,  was  a  repeating  male  event,  the  same  eight  Long  Island  males,  their  hair  growing  curly  and  theirfaces  ruddy  away  from  the  dry  [REDACTED]  canyons  and  air-condi-  tioned  compartments  where  they  had  accumulated  their  little  fortunes.  They  discussed  their  caddies  as  men,  ex-  tremely  unbuttoned,  might  discuss  their  mistresses.  &quot;Come  on,  Freddie,  hit  it  fer  once!&quot;  the  very  distinguished  banker  Frederic  R.  Panoply  boasted  his  had  cried  out  to  him  in  frustration  as,  on  the  third  day  of  his  cautious,  down-  the-middle  banker's  game,  he  painstak-  ingly  addressed  his  ball.  Another  man's  caddie,  when  asked  what  he  thought  of  Mrs.  Thatcher, had  responded  with  a  twinkle,  &quot;She'd  be  a  good  hump.&quot;  Farrell,  prim  and  reserved  by  nature,  had  relatively  little  tooffer  of  his  cad-  die.  He  worried  about  the  man's  inces-  sant  smoking,  and  whether  at  the  end  of  a  round  he  tipped  him  too  much  less  than  what  a  Japanese  golfer  would  have  given.  As  the  week  went  by,  their  relationship  hadbecome  more  intuitive.  &quot;A  6-iron?&quot;  Farrell  would  now  say,  and  without  a  word  would  be  handed  the  club.  Once,  he  had  dared  decline  an  offered  6,  asked  for  the  5,  and  sailed  his  unusually  well-struck  shot  into  the  sedge  beyond  the  green.  On  the  greens,  where  he  at  first  had  been  bothered  by  the  caddie's  explicit  directives,  sothat  he  forgot  to  stroke  the  ball  firmly,  he  had  come  to  depend  upon  Sandy's  ad-  vice,  and  would  expertly  tilt  his  ear  close  to  the  caddie's  mouth  and  tryto  envision  the  curve  of  the  ball  into  the  center  of  the  hole  from  &quot;an  inch  an'  a  fingernail  tae  th'  laift.&quot;  Farrell  began  to  sink  putts.  He  began  to  get  pars,  as  the  whitecaps  flashed  on  one  side  of  the  links  and  on  the  other  the  wine-red  electric  commuter  trains  swiftly  glided  up  to  Glasgow  and  back.  This  was  happiness,  on  this  wasteland  between  the  tracks  and  the  beach,  and  freedom,  of  a  wild  and  windy  sort.  On  the  morning  of  his  last  day,  having  sliced  his  first  drive  into  the  edge  of  the  rough,  between  a  thistle  and  what  ap-  peared  to  be  a  child's  weathered  tomb,  stone,  Farrell  bent  his  ear  close  to  the  caddie's  mouth  for  advice,  and  heard,  &quot;Ye'd  be  better  leavin'  'er.&quot;  &quot;Beg  pardon?&quot;  Farrell  said,  as  he  had  all  week,  when  the  glottal,  hiccup,  ping  accent  had  become  opaque.  Today  the  acoustics  were  especially  bad;  a  near-gale  off  the  sea  was  making  his  rain  pants  rattle  like  machine  guns,  and  deformed  his  eyeballs  with  air  pressure  as  he  tried  to  squint  down.  When  he  could  stop  seeing  double,  his  lie  looked  fair-semi-embedded.  &quot;Yer  missus,&quot;  Sandy  clarified,  pass-  ing  over  the  8-iron.  &quot;Ere  it's  tae  late,  mon.  She  was  never  yer  type.  Tae  proper.&quot;  &quot;Shouldn't  this  be  a  wedge?&quot;  Farrell  asked  uncertainly.  &quot;Nay,  it's  sittin'  up  guid  enough,&quot;  thecaddie  said,  pressing  his  foot  into  the  heather  behind  the  ball,  so  it  rose  up  like  ooze  out  of  mud.  &quot;Ye  kin  reach  with  th'  8,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Go  fer  yer  par.  Yer  fauts  er  a'  in  yer  mind;  ye  tend  t'  play  defensive.&quot;  " b"Farrell  would  have  dismissed  his  previous  remarks  as  a  verbal  mirage  amid  the  clicks  and  skips  of  windblown  Scots  had  they  not  seemed  so  uncannily  true.  &quot;Too  proper&quot;  was  exactly  what  his  collegefriends  had  saidof  Sylvia,  but  he  had  imagined  that  her  physical  beauty  had  been  the  real  thing,  and  her  propriety  apose  she  would  outgrow,  whereas  thirty-five  married  years  had  revealed  the  propriety  as  enduring  and  the  beauty  as  transient.  As  to  leaving  her,  this  thought  would  never  have  entered  his  head  until  recently;  the  mergers-and-acquisitions  branch  had  recently  taken  on  a  certain  Irma  Fine-  gold,  with  heavy-lidded  eyes,  fulllips  painted  sharply  red,  and  a  curious  pre-  sumptuous  way  of  teasing  Farrell  in  the  eddies  of  chitchat  before  and  after  a  conference.  She  had  recently  been  di-  vorced,  and  when  she  talked  to  Farrell  she  tapped  her  lower  lip  with  a  pencil  eraser  andshimmied  her  shoulders  be-  neath  their  pads.  On  nights  when  the  office  worked  late-he  liked  occasion-  ally  to  demonstrate  that,  far  along  though  he  was,  he  could  still  pull  an  all-nighter  with  the  young  bucks  there  had  been  between  him  and  Irma  shared  Chinese  meals  from  greasy  take-  out  cartons,  and  a  shared  limo  home  in  the  dawn  light.  On  one  undreamed-of  occasion,  there  had  even  been  an  invi-  tation,  which  he  did  not  refuse,  to  interrupt  his  return  to  Long  Island  with  anhour  at  her  apartment  in  [REDACTED].  The  8-iron  pinched  the  ball  clean,  and  the  Atlantic  gale  brought  the  soar-  ing  shot  left-to-right  toward  the  pin.  &quot;Laift  edge,  but  dinna  gi'  the  hole  away,&quot;  Sandy  advised  of  the  putt,  and  Farrell  sank  it,  for  the  first  birdie  of  his  week  of  golf.  Now,  suddenly,  out  of  the  silvery  torn  sky,  sleet  and  sunshine  descended  simultaneously,  and  as  the  two  men  walked  at  the  same  tilt  to  the  next  tee,  Sandy's  voice  came  out  of  the  wind,  &quot;An'  steer  clear  o'  the  MiniCorp  deal.  They've  leveraged  th'  company  tae  death.&quot;  Farrell  studied  Sandy's  face.  Rain  and  sleet  bounced  off  the  brown  skin  as  if  from  a  waxy  preservative  coat-  ing.  Metallic  gleams  showed  as  the  man  surveyed,  through  narrowed  eye-  lids,  the  watery  horizon.  Farrell  pre-  tended  he  hadn't  heard.  On  the  tee  he  was  handed  a  3-wood,  with  the  ad-  vice,  &quot;Ye  want  tae  stay  short  o'  th'  wee  burn.  The  wind's  come  aroond behind,  bringin'  the  sun  with  it.&quot;  As  the  round  wore  on,the  sun  did  struggle  through,  and  a  thick  rainbow  planted  itself  over  the  profile  of  the  drab  town  beyond  the  tracks,  with  its  soot-  black  steeples  and  distillery  chimneys.  By  the  time  of  the  afternoon's  eighteen,  there  was  actually  blue  sky,  and  oblique  solar  rays.  Pockets  of  lengthening  shadows  showed  theold  course  to  be  everywhere  curvacious,  crest  and  swale,  like  the  body  of  a  woman.  Forty  feet  off  the  green  on  the  fourteenth  (&quot;Whinny  Brae&quot;),  Farrell  docilely  ac-  cepted  the  caddie's  offer  of  a  putter,  and  rolled  it  up  and  over  the  close-mowed  irregularities  to  within  a  gimme  of  the  hole.  His  old  self  would  have  skulled  or  fluffed  a  chip.  &quot;Great  advice,&quot;  he  said,  and  in  his  flush  of  triumph  challenged  the  caddie:  &quot;But  Irma  loves  the  MiniCorp  deal.&quot;  &quot;Aye,  't  keeps  the  twa  o'  you  togither.  She's  fairful  ye'll  wander  off,  i'  th'  halls  o'  corporate  power.&quot;  &quot;But  whatever  doesshe  see  in  me?&quot;  &quot;Lookin'  fer  a  faither,  the  case  may  be.  Thet  first  husband  o'  hers  was  meikle  immature.  And  also  far  from  yer  own  income  bracket.&quot;  Farrell  felt  his  heart  sink  at  the  deflating  shrewdness  of  the  analysis.  His  mind  elsewhere,  absented  by  bitter-  sweet  sorrow,  he  hit  one  pure  shot  after  another.  Looking  to  the  caddie  for  praise,  however,  he  met  the  same  im-  passive,  dour,  young-old  visage,  opaque  beneath  the  billed  tweed  cap.  Tomor-  row,  the  man  would  caddie  for  someone  else,  and  Farrell  would  be  belted  into  a  business-class  seat  within  a  747.  On  the  home  stretch  of  holes-one  after  the  other  strung  out  along  the  tracks,  as  the  Victorian  brick  clubhouse,  with  its  tur-  rets  and  neo-Gothic  arches,  drew  closer  and  closer-Farrell  begged  for  advice.  &quot;The  5-wood,  or  the  3-iron?  The  three  keeps  it  down  out  of  the  wind,  but  I  feel  more  confident  with  the  wood,  the  way  you've  got  me  swinging.&quot;  &quot;''The  five'll  be  ower  and  gone,  ye're  a'  pumped  up.  Take  the  4-iron.  Smooth  it  on,  laddie.  Aim  fer  th'  little  broch.&quot;  &quot;Broch?&quot;  &quot;Wee  stone  fortress,  frae  th'  days  we  had  our  own  braw  king.&quot;  He  added,  &quot;An'  ye  might  be  thinkin',  Gus,  aboot  takin'  early  retirement.  The  severance  deals  won't  be  so  sweet  aye.  Ye  kin  free  yerself  up,  an'  take  on  some  consults,  fer  th'  spare  change.&quot;  &quot;Just  what  I  was  thinking,  if  Irma's  a  will-o'-the-wisp.&quot;  &quot;Will-o'-the-wisp,  do  ye  say?  Ye're  a  speedy  lairner.&quot;  Farrell  felt  flattered  and  wind-  scoured,  here  in  this  surging  universe  of  green  and  gray.  &quot;You  think  so,  Sandy?&quot;  &quot;I  ken  sae.  Ye  can  tell  a'  aboot  a  man,  frae  th'  way  he  gowfs.&quot; "