 b"&quot;BEIGE  BOOK&quot;  CITES  MUCH  EVIDENCE  OF  SLOWING  ECONOMY  .  .  .  includes  much  anecdotal  evidence  of  growing  distress.-T  heTimes.  I  heard  of  the  Beige  Book,  that  holy  of  holies  never  until  today  mentioned  in  the  newspaper-a  shock  which  has  prompted  me,  the  last  of  my  line,  to  take  my  pen  in  hand.  It  was  at  Sweatbreads,  our  enormous  family  place;  I  was  wearing  asmall  sombrero  brought  to  me  by  my  Aunt  Inez,  who  had  defaulted  on  the  largest  issue  of  railroad  bonds  ever  issued  in  [REDACTED];  and  we  were  being  ushered  out  onto  the  Merrick  Road,  where  a  kindly  passerby  was  destined  to  takeus  in,  rob  us,  use  us  any  way  he  pleased,  and  then  send  us  to  Princeton.  Mummy  was  saying  that  although  everyone  we  knew  was  in  the  Beige  Book,  no  one  mentioned  it.  &quot;It  makes  others  feel  queer,&quot;  Mummy  said,  flag-  ging  down  Mr.  M.  (the  only  name  I  ever  knew  him  by),  &quot;to  know  that  there  are  people  who  possess  a  social  REMEMBER  the  first  time  I  Ey  |  Rec  \xc2\xab4-  &gt;  alta  1  a  go  32  distinction  they  cannot  aspire  to.&quot;  I  must  say  that  not  only  were  we  in  the  Beige  Book  but  Mr.  M.  was  not,  and  this  I  think  accounted  forhis  extreme  cruelty  to  us,  which  has  been  an  inspi-  ration  to  me  ever  since.  In  a  way  I  have  the  Book  to  thank  for  everything.  I  am  not  one  of  those  who  think  the  old  days  were  &quot;better&quot;  than  our  own  day.  I  am  opposed  to  mentioning  the  Book  inpublic,  but  that  may  be  an  old  man's  crotchet.  When  I  read,  as  I  do,  that  an  unnoticed  loophole  or  tumor  in  the  tax  laws  has  placed  all  Americans,  living  or  dead,  in  Chapter  Eleven,  and  this  ata  time  when  Chapter  Eleven  may  be  giving  way  to  Chapter  Twelve,  I  think,  Yes,  this  meets  theold  stan-  dards  of  excellence  asto  strong  anec-  dotal  evidence  of  growing  financial  distress.  That  was  always  the  test,  you  see.  Not  just  the  loss  of  billions,  not  just  the  foolish  frittering  away  of  this  or  that  great  fortune,  but  the  anecdotal  evidence:  thet's  what  got  you  in.  I  read:  &quot;An  economist  at  the  Tokai  Bank  in  New  York,  Robert  T.  McGee,  called  the  'beige  book'  report  on  current  conditions  a  (sombre  con-  trast.&quot;  \xe2\x80\x98  N  Z  ASNT  it,  though.  There  was  C.  D.  Piller,  whose  body  was  disgustingly  hirsute,  who  was  always  in  the  book,  of  course,  who  married  Pilar  de  Guzman,  of  the  Crazy  Guzm@ns,  because  his  last  name  was  vaguely  like  her  first  one.  God,  they  were  rich-for  a  while.  We  were  prep-school  friends,  and,  of  course,  we  used  to  swap  wives;  we  all  did  back  then,  quite  a  different  kind  of  thing  than  you  see  now  -done  so  nicely,  with  everyone's  feelings  respected,  natural-  ly.  Anyway,  we  used  to  meet  in  railroad  stations.  We  were  young,  rich,  and,  of  course,  all  of  us  were  in  the  Book.  In  fact  all  of  us  carried  the  Book  with  us  on  our  walkouts.  That's  what  we  called  a  little  adultery  back  then,a  little  walkout.  I  don't  need  to  tell  you  that  the  Book  isn't  actually  beige  buta  kind  of  russet,  with  one  thin  gold  stripe  down  the  cover  and  the  telephone  num-  ber  of  Miss  Goldie  at  the  Federal  Reserve  Board  on  the  cover  in  case  we  needed  any  extra  cash-just  call  her.  I  believe  you  need  only  two  things  in  order  to  have  a  truly  civilized  society:  access  to  other  people's  wives,  and  a  disinterested  spinster  of  the  old  school  who  stands  by  &gt;\xc2\xab,  &lt;,  her  phone  twenty-four  hours  a  day  ready  to  send  you  cash.  We  had  those  things,  thank  God,  and  we  fought  the  Jerries  to  keep  them,  and  we  won,  thank  God,  and  now  here  we  are,  I  think.  We  were  in  sombre  contrast  to  our  parents,  who  always  got  a  divorce  before  and  after  walking  out,  and  also  to  W  alt  Whitman,  who  was  much  nicer  to  workingmen.  We  all  wore  fine  cotton,  linen  cam-  bric,  and  summer  dresses  that  whipped  smartly  in  the  wind.  Our  clothes  weren't  in  som-  bre  contrast,  God  damn  it.  Naturally,  I  had  known  Pilar  since  we  were  children.  She  used  to  come  to  the  small  dances  we  held  at  Sweat-  breads,  our  enormous  ugly  home  in  Factoryville,  Con-  necticut,  high  above  the  brass  and  bicycle  works.  There  I  was  the  target  of  many  friendly  stone-throwing  con-  tests  among  the  local  youths.  " b"I  was  called  Stinky,  and  very  often  had  my  head  held  under  the  water  of  the  filthy  old  millpond  as  some  local  youth  or  other  re-  galed  me  with  anecdotal  evidence  of  financial  distress-all  our  fault,  according  to  him.  Natural-  ly,  I  didn't  begrudge  him  his  fun,  because  my  mind  was  already  roaming  far  afield  into  the  great  world  beyond  Factoryville,  where  there  was  a  lot  of  interest-  ing  adultery  going  on,  I  felt  sure.  Besides,  my  head  was  underwa-  ter.  Now  I  sometimes  wish  I  could  remember  his  words  exact,  ly,  as  he  piled  adjective  upon  ad-  jective,  before  and  after  the  noun,  in  creating  the  particular  idiom-  atic  form  of  anecdotal  evidence  we  went  in  for  in  Old  Industrial  [REDACTED].  That  kind  of  anec-  dotal  evidence  brings  a  pretty  penny  now,  as  I  have  reason  to  know.  &quot;  MY  father  was  a  big  man.  He  stood  six  feet  five  in  his  stocking  feet,  which  we  were  never  allowed  to  see.  He  inher-  ited  Sweatbreads  from  his  father,  who  was  a  very  mean  man.  Even  today,  the  Portuguese  of  New  Bedford  hum  themselves  to  sleep  with  a  song  describ-  ing  in  most  graphic  terms  what  they  will  do  to  my  grandfather  if  they  get  their  hands  on  him.  I  think  I  can  recall  a  little  of  that  old  song  (which  my  father  would  sometimes  hum  merrily  to  himself,  and  which  he  instructed  our  nurse  Guinevere  to  have  us  in  the  nursery  learn  by  heart):  A  do  ye,  kenn  ye  Picture  the  man  Who  would  crush  a  poor  worker  Down  to  the  ground  Then  set  him  ablaze  with  The  words  of  his  tongue?  But  that  mouth  will  yield  up  *  That  wicked  old  worm,  And  those  sockets  Will  give  out  Those  wicked  pink  eyes,  And  yr  children  will  live  out  Their  small  wicked  lives  Fatherless!  Fatherless!  And  Old  Barney  [a  name  my  grand-  father  disliked-his  name  was  Barnabas]  We  will  crucify!  And  Old  Barney  We  will  crucify!  Royalties  from  this  famous  piece  of  anecdotal  evidence  of  financial  distress  very  nearly  cover  my  room  rent  here  at  the  Hotel  Subaltern,  so  I  have  rea-  son  to  be  grateful  to  my  grandfather.  Moreover,  I  am  informed  that  the  Li-  brary  of  Congress  regards  this  song  as  possessing  &quot;a  unique  sincerity,  record-  ing  a  deep  anguish  not  to  be  met  with  elsewhere,  even  in  the  laments  of  total-  ly  extirpated  native  peoples.&quot;  Natural-  ly,  I  am  proud  to  have  my  family  associated  with  this  kind  of  thing.  Some  instinct  told  my  father,  who  was  otherwise  indifferent  to  poetry,  that  this  piece  of  family  lore  had  special  merit.  As  I  have  implied,  it  was  rare  that  a  day  passed  when  he  didn't  sing  a  little  of  it.  Perhaps  he  would  be  stand-  ing  in  front  of  his  shaving  mirror,  or  looking  outover  the  lawn  toward  the  stinking  town,  and  suddenly  he  would  break  out  with  &quot;And  Old  Barney  we  will  crucify!  And  Old  Barney  we  will  crucify!&quot;  These  were  the  only  times  my  father  was  happy,  I  think.  And  of  course  we  were  happy  then,  too,  look-  ing  out  over  the  poor  people  working  in  the  bicycle  works,  and  the  filthy  millpond,  and  over  it  all  the  sound  of  my  father  singing  curses  to  his  father.  He  had  a  baritone,  quite  nice-rather  sweet  and  mournful.  In  any  case,  once,  in  the  dead  of  night,  my  grandfather  took  the  family  to  the  train  station  at  Providence,  boarded  the  old  Owl,  and  by  morn-  ing  they  were  all  at  Sweatbreads.  Ah,  the  Sweatbreads  of  my  youth.  .  .  .  So  unlike  my  vile  room  at  the  Hotel  Subaltern.  Sweatbreads,  now,  that  was  a  house  of  really  unparalleled  vulgari-  ty.  There  was  a  wonderful  half-  timbered  effect,  and  a  thatched  roof,  and  a  huge  billiard  room-but,  oh,  all  gone.  I  remember  taking  Pilar  de  Guz-  man  there  during  our  year  together.  It  had  burned  to  the  ground,  but  there  was  still  a  clock  tower  and  a  billiard  table-the  two  indispensable  parts  of  a  really  good  house-and  I  made  love  to  her  there  while  telling  her  in  quite  strict  tones  that  my  grandfather  had  been  the  meanest  man  in  New  Bedford.  I  must  say  it  had  an  electrifying  effect  on  our  lovemaking.  DOES  the  modern  world  have  any-  thing  to  compare?  I  read  the  papers.  Some  stories  do  have  the  old  frisson.  I  quite  often  have  lunch  with  my  old  friend  Commodore  Cornelius  Vanderbilt,  who  has  a  very  nice  slot  at  the  Daiwa  Bank-not  too  much  work,  comfortable  men's  lounge,  and  respectable  benefits.  He  has  two  rooms  at  the  Subaltern,  and  lunch  money.  &quot;Now,  Commodore,&quot;  I  said  to  him  the  other  day,  &quot;  [REDACTED]  SUPPLIERS  GET  " b"&quot;  A  TOYOTA  LECTURE'-anything  in  that  worth  thinking  about?&quot;  &quot;Not  a  patch  on  'MINIMUM  TAX  PROVISIONS  EXPECTED  TO  SNARE  MANY,&quot;  &quot;  says  he,  and  he  tells  me  that  over  at  the  bank  they  think  that  every  single  American  will  be  in  Chapter  Eleven  before  seven  months  are  out.  &quot;If  we  end  up  having  to  let  Chapter  Twelve  into  the  Book,  we  can  kiss  it  all  auf  Wiedersehen.&quot;  &quot;AUF  WIEDERSEHREN,&quot;  she  said,  and  turned  back  into  the  hotel.  God,  what  elegance  we  had.  We  had  just  telegrammed  her  husband  to  let  him  know  we'd  be  a  little  while  longer  making  love  in  every  industrial  ruin  and  under  every  rusty  old  railroad  bridge  we  could  find.  That's  the  kind  of  respect  for  other  people  you  don't  find  so  much  today.  We  took  a  wild  guess  that  oneday  General  Motors  would  decide  to  disassemble  all  its  cars.  &quot;And  Bethlehem  Steel  will  no  longer  like  the  Biblical  reference,&quot;  I  added.  That's  the  kind  of  thing  being  in  the  Book  gives  you-the  security  with  ref-  erence.  That  night,  as  we  made  pas-  sionate  love  under  a  railroad  bridge  in  [REDACTED],  her  legs  twisted  around  me  like  a  strange  railroad  loop  into  a  freight  yard,  like  a  roundhouse,  like  a  decadent  open-hearth  steel  furnace  go-  ing  down  one  last  time  before  falling  into  silence.  We  guessed  that  Palm  Beach  would  be  reduced  to  events  like  &quot;THE  REMEMBER  WHEN  THE  WIND-  SORS  DID  THE  'TWIST'  BALL.&quot;  As  I  brought  her  to  peaks  of  plea-  sure  she  had  never  known  before,  she  looked  up  through  the  railroad  ties  to  the  night  sky.  &quot;No  one  likes  to  think  about  Chapter  Twelve,&quot;  she  said.I  didn't  know  what  she  meant-  then.  ACT:  CHAPTER  ELEVEN  WAS  BUILT  TO  HANDLE  TWENTY  OR  THIRTY  MILLION  PRISONERS,  NOT  THE  CASELOAD  WE'RE  THINKING  OF  TODAY.  BELIEVE  the  old  values  are  best.  In  my  crowd,  when  youcommit-  ted  adultery,  by  God  you  sent  the  fel-  low  youwere  cutting  out  a  Christmas  present.  And  of  course  we  had  plenty  of  money,  and  didn't  care  how  we  got  it.  We  were  all  in  the  Book,  for  heaven's  sake;  who  cared?  And  there  wasn't  any  of  this  coddling  of  children.   if  When  we  needed  money,  we  used  to  use  an  interest-  ing  financial  instrument  called  the  Crowbar.  It  was  a  kind  of  third  mortgage  on  your  children,  technically  illegal,  but  if  you  were  in  the  Book-who  cared?  Pilar  used  this  technique  while  we  were  together  on  the  Wolverine.  We  wanted  that  train  to  go  on  and  on  and  on  through  the  night  to  [REDACTED]  without  pick-  ing  up  a  solitary  soul-  just  barrel  through  those  damned  Middle  Western  towns,  leave  the  peasants  at  the  station,  for  Christ's  sweet  sake  just  keep  on.  I  must  say  it  had  an  electri-  fying  effect  on  our  love-  making.  This  country  hasgot  to  come  to  its  senses.  If  people  don't  get  married  and  stay  married,  you  can't  have  adultery,  for  one  thing,  and  without  adultery  you  don't  have  the  chance  to  show  the  kind  of  manners  to  the  fellow  you're  cutting  out  that  one  fellow  should  show  to  another.  Second,  when  we  were  being  a  little  irresponsi-  ble  about  something,  we  always  wired  the  other  fellow  about  it.  &quot;WON'T  STOP  CHI-WALKING  OUT  WITH  YOUR  WIFE  INSTEAD.&quot;  That  sort  of  thing.  Gave  one  a  nice  store  of  memoriese-and  gave  the  other  fellow  a  stock  of  stylish  telegrams  he  wouldn't  have  had  otherwise.  Plus  we  were  well-  schooled  fellows,  you  know.  And  in  the  Book,  don't  forget  that,  and  we  had  plenty  of  anecdotal  evidence  of  finan-  cial  distress.  My  God,  don't  they  treat  me  like  dirt  here  at  the  vile  Hotel  Subaltern,  though?  I  get  what  I  deserve  and  then  some.  Reminds  me  of  trea-  sured  years  at  home-and  later  with  Mr.  M.,  God  rest  his  soul.  Anecdotal  evidence  of  financial  distress  is  what  made  this  country  great.  Don't  forget  that.  Remember,  though:  Chapter  Eleven  was  built  to  hold  twenty  or  thirty  mil-  lion  people,  not  the  whole  damned  coun-  try.  Do  you  see  where  they've  upgraded  Chapter  Twelve  from  Tropical  Storm  to  Unthinkable?  Makes  one  worry,  but  it  could  have  an  electrifying  effect  on  our  lovemaking."