 b"DOCTOR  CALLING  IT  QUITS  TO  RUN  COIN  LAUNDRY  He  said  insurance  rates  drove  him  out  of  his  20-year  practice.-T  heTimes.  Drar  Doctor:  PLEASE  don't  do  anything  until  you  read  this.  I'm  sending  it  c/o  the  A.M.A.,  so  God  knows  how  long  it  will  take  to  reach  you.  But  I  consider  it  my  duty  to  write,  as  acolleague  who  once  shared  your  vision  of  the  coin-operated-  laundry  business  as  a  refuge  from  the  insurance  fiends.  If  only  life  were  sosimple.  A  year  ago,  I  was  still  practicing  general  medicine  in  my  home  town  of  Calamine,  in  upstate  New  York,  ad-  ministering  vaccinations  and  checkups  to  patients  who  thought  &quot;malpractice&quot;  was  a  problem  with  the  high-school  basketball  team.  That  was  what  old  Doc  Williamson  always  said.  He  had  been  our  family  physician  ever  since  I  was  a  little  girl;  he  helped  me  get  into  medical  school,  and  then  took  me  on  as  his  associate.  I  understood  that  his  professional  confidence  in  me  was  en-  hanced  by  my  conservative  manage-  ment  of  a  legacy  from  my  maternal  grandfather,  a  prosperous  dairy  farmer  whose  generosity  enabled  Doc  and  me  to  goon  feeding,  temporarily,  those  vo-  racious  actuarial  parasites  all  too  famil-  iar  to  someone  in  your  shoes,  Doctor.  But  Doc's  nerves  were  shot.  I  sent  him  abroad  on  a  therapeutic  mah-  jongg  cruise,  and  the  last  I  heard  from  him  was  anotarized  picture  postcard  (Balinese  dancers)  giving  me  power  of  attorney  to  dispose  of  the  office  and  appurtenances  when  my  inheritance  ran  out.  It  did,  but  then  I  happened  to  win  the  New  York  State  Lottery.  That  fortune,  however,  was  swallowed  up  before  my  endorsement  on  the  check  was  dry,  and  finally  I  had  to  throw  in  the  towel.  I  sold  the  office,  paid  off  the  loan  I'd  taken  in  one  last  try  at  satiat-  ing  the  premium-bloated  sharks  of  whom  surely  I  need  offer  no  further  description  to  yourself,  and  renteda  studio  apartment  in  lower  [REDACTED],  determined  to  change  my  life.  So  believe  me,  I  know  how  you  feel.  Twenty  years  of  cliffhanging,  strung  out  on  terror  and  relief,  relief  and  terror-the  awful  cycleof  indemnify,  ing  yourself  against  Mrs.  Smith  or  Mr.  Jones,  that  grateful  patient  with  the  billion-to-one  chance  of  blindsiding  you  as  a  subpoena-waving  freak  liti-  gant-and  now,  freedom!  How  de-  lightful  the  prospect!-each  day  a  dance  in  the  embrace  of  Dame  Fortune  (for  me,  Senor  Fortune),  a  delicious  creature  of  spontaneity  and  not,  after  all,  a  greedy  monster  whose  mood  swings  demand  to  be  bought  off  with  yet  another  bribe  ripped  from  a  muti-  lated  checkbook.  Normal  human  risk  -how  charming  and  comfortable  it  sounds!  I  guess  I  must  have  walked  by  that  boarded-up  cinder-block  laundromat  on  Prince  Street  ten  times  before  it  dawned  on  me:  here  was  the  helping  profession  of  my  dreams.  The  lowered  prestige-even  a  degree  of  marginal-  ity-would  be  offset  by  a  modest  inde-  pendent  income  secure  from  the  bloodsuckers  I  swore  I'd  never  think  about  again.  Life  was  going  to  be  marvellous.  The  premises  were  hardly  palatial  compared  to  the  oak-panelled  office  on  Main  Street,  but  the  lease  was  cheap.  I  could  sleep  on  a  cot  in  the  storeroom.  The  soap  venders  gave  credit,  and  their  experimental  products!-a  fantastic  pharmacopoeia  of  strange-hued  fabric  softeners  and  high-tech  stain  removers  to  dispense  to  my  heart's  content,  even  for  people  using  alcoholic  beverages  while  operating  the  machines.  Small  wonder  I  was  flying  high  by  opening  day  at  Mercy  Memorial  Wash  'n'  Dri.  Coin  slides  clicked  and  agita-  tors  hummed,  complimentary  cham-  pagne  flowed  for  everybody  trying  an  experimental  product,  and  during  Hap-  py  Hour  I  let  children  punch  the  temperature-select  buttons  at  random,  just  for  fun.  And  it  worked!  A  sample  of  the  warm  response:  DEAR  DOCTOR:  Just  a  note  to  let  you  know  how  grateful  I  am  for  your  treatment  of  my  laundry.  I  was  so  upset  when  I  learned  it  would  have  to  go  in.  I  can't  begin  to  describe  the  dread when  I  first  saw  the  unmistakable  symp-  toms  of  soil.  My  husband  and  parents  were  extremely  concerned,  and  it  was  very  kind  of  you  to  call  them  from  the  pay  phone  just  to  reassure  them  that  everything  was  going  smoothly.  Nothing  was  stolen,  and  your  decisive  intervention  in  an  emergency,  personally  transferring  my  wash  to  the  dryer  while  I  was  shopping,  seems  to  have  been  the  right  thing  to  do.  It  was  worth  every  penny  of  the  extra  fee,  as  was  the  impeccable  fold-  ing.  I  know  you  must  perform  similar  oper-  ations  all  the  time,  but  I  couldn't  have  done  it  better  myself,  ha-ha!  Much  appreciated  also  was  your  light-  hearted  manner  during  the  after-care  period.  Well,  I  sure  pray  I  won't  need  your  services  ever  again,  but  if  I  do  (God  for-  bid)  you  have  my  eternal  confidence.  [Name  Withheld  in  Confidentiality]  O  far,  so  good.  Around  six  o'clock  this  morn-  ing,  a  man  raps  on  the  storefront  win-  dow.  Suit  and  tie,  but  who  knows!?  Maybe  he's  trouble,  maybe  he  left  a  sock  in  the  dryer.  Isn't  my  new  life  supposed  to  be  all  about  taking  a  chance?  Surprise,  surprise-it's  a  pitch.  &quot;Lady-or  should  I  say  'Doctor'?&quot;  he  says.  &quot;You're  on  a  suicide  course.  Destination  bankruptcy.  And  then  the  inevitable  retreat  into  an  evenlower-  status  business,  in  one  of  the  redlined  failure  zones  along  the  downward-  trajectory  channels  whereno  insur-  ance  company  in  its  right  mind  would  guarantee  you  against  certain  ruin,  I  guarantee  you.  Now  I  will  explain  the  background,  even  though  I  don't  have  to.  &quot;In  recent  years-  O.K.,  in  recent  years  the  whole  country  has  gone  nuts,  but  we  limit  ourselves,  and  in  recent  years  more  specifically  the  coin-op-  laundry  sector  has  been  overrun  by  unprecedented  numbers  of  doctors  and  other  health-care  practitioners.  Similar  example,  the  classic  Brain  Drain  of  the  sixties,  when  all  those  academics  went  into  the  saw-sharpening  business  thinking  it  would  be  an  attractive  life  style-working  with  their  hands,  no  more  squabbles  with  tenure  commit-  tees,  dream  on--and  then  found  out  that  in  the  field  of  saw-sharpening,  as  in  any  other,  the  rules  are  brutally  dictated  by  the  marketplace.  Believe  me,  I  personally  would  love  to  buy  a  piece  of  land  upstate  and  retire  by  some  little  blue  lake,  but  here  I  am  in  a  barrel  of  rotten  apples,  God  willing.  &quot;'This  is  not  to  deny  for  one  second  that  your  surgeons,  internists,  radiolo-  gists,  and  the  like  are  upping  the  tech-  " b"nological  sophistication  at  many  laun-  dry  venues.  And  welcome  aboard!  But  -and  it's  a  big  but-as  the  industry  thus  becomes  more  scientific,  innova-  tive,  and  humane,  I  say  to  you  that  so  too  does  it  pose  also  hazards  unherald-  ed,  and  not  just  for  the  bags  of  laundry  themselves  but  for  those  selfsame  en-  trepreneurs  who  imagine  they  can  waltz  carefree,  financially  secure  from  protracted  and  devastating  lawsuits  at  the  hands  of  rapacious  attorneys  for  customers  increasingly  perfectionistic,  affluent,  and  educated  in  modern  laundry-management  standards  as  re-  ported  by  the  mass  media.  &quot;Lest  this  analysis  strike  you  as  alarmist  or  the  economic  consequences  inconsequential,  let  me  share  if  I  may  a  few  case  histories  from  our  claims-  adjustment  files.  &quot;Item:  Since  1988  a  [REDACTED]  broad  has  had  a  legal  vendetta  going  against  St.  Luke's  Coin-o-Mat,  where  despite  the  twenty-four-hour  presence  of  a  certified  anesthesiologist,  a  failure  in  the  oxygen-support  systemcaused  her  load  of  heavy-duty  work  clothes  to  suffer  an  irreversible  case  of  mildew.  &quot;Item:  In  1989,  right  here  in  Man-  hattan,  the  owner  of  Columbia  Presby-  terian  Washaterium  got  clobbered  with  a  fifty-thousand-dollar  fine.  Why?  He  recommended  chlorine  bleach  without  advising  the  client  of  the  right  to  get  a  second  opinion.  &quot;Item:  1990,  out  in  L.A.-impor-  tant  test  case.  Some  movie  star's  fancy  pillowcases  were  in  a  private  Intensive  Presoak  Unit  at  Cedars  of  [REDACTED]  Lying-In  Laundry.  While  a  consulta-  tion  was  being  set  up  with  a  specialist  from  the  Delicate  Care  Institute  of  Bethesda,  the  plaintiff  was  denied  vis-  iting  privileges  over  a  holiday  week-  end.  Domestics  Court  awarded  emo-  tional  damages  at  a  hundred  and  thirty-  five  thou  per  diem.  I  ask  you.  Now  under  appeal,  and  don't  hold  your  breath.&quot;  I\xe2\x80\x99M  not  deaf  to  his  implied  threats,  but  Ifeel  immune.  From  a  position  of  control,  I  choose  to  go  with  him  to  his  Wall  Street  office  for  what  I  assume  will  be  a  textbook  case  of  high-pressure  insurance  solicitation.  It's  important  for  my  continued  personal  development  to  confront  the  beast  in  its  lair.  The  office  is  palatial  compared  to  a  laundromat.  The  crowded  reception  salon  is  ebony-panelled,  with  a  marble  staircase  leading  to  a  balcony  orna-mented  with  gilt  phoenixes  and  drag-  ons,  encircled  by  pillars  rising  from  the  backs  of  live  bejewelled  tortoises  more  intimidating  than  expected,  but  I  can't  let  that  stand  in  my  way  now.  There's  an  announcement  from  a  loud-  speaker:  &quot;Guilty  as  charged,  sentenced  to  death  by  beheading!&quot;  Somebody  screams.  &quot;Erstwhile  proprietor  of  the  Good  Samaritan  Laundromat,&quot;  my  compan-  ion  whispers,  and  pushes  me  up  the  staircase.  &quot;Just  answer  the  riddles  as  best  you  can.&quot;&quot;  At  this  I  feel  a  pang  of  apprehension,  which  I  embrace.  And  then  I  recall  the  fundamental  tenet  we  learned  in  medical  school  -that  the  seeming  infinities  of  life  always  con-  verge  in  a  few  lucid  biochemical  struc-  tures:  there's  Boy  Meets  Girl;  there's  Dog  Bites  Man;  and  there's  the  Riddle  Scene.  And  it's  a  real  thrill.  I'm  at  the  top  of  the  staircase.  The  crowd  below  falls  silent.  The  loudspeaker  says  my  life  will  be  spared  if  I  answer  three  riddles,  or  I  can  go  straight  to  the  executioner's  block.  I  take  my  chances.  &quot;There  is  that  which  is  wet  yet  at  the  same  time  is  dry-how  can  such  a  thing  be?&quot;  I'm  not  afraid  of  the  obvious.  &quot;A  wash  treated  with  Dewdrop  Mildew  Retardant,&quot;  I  reply,  &quot;turns  the  dankest  basement  as  fungus-proof  as  a  sunny  meadow.&quot;  The  crowd  applauds.  This  is  intoxicating.  &quot;Who  or  what  is  the  following:  freezing-cold  as  ice  to  the  touch  but  burning  within  like  a  hot  flame?&quot;  'The  face  of  a  doctor  who  has  been  contradicted  by  a  second  opinion.&quot;  How  I  come  up  with  this  under  stress  I  have  absolutely  no  idea.  Adrenaline  is  a  wonderful  thing.  You  could  hear  a  pin  drop  now.  &quot;A  winged  demon  flies  over  the  land&quot;-I  can  tell  already  this  one  won't  be  easy-&quot;and  its  name  is  what?&quot;  Totally  unfair!  It  could  be  anything!  Not  enough  clues  have  been  given!  My  face  is  cold  but  hot.  I  take  a  wild  guess,  blurting  out  the  first  word  that  enters  my  head:  &quot;Risk!  Risk!  Risk!  Its  name  is  Risk!&quot;  ELL,  Doctor,  I  guessed  right.  I  was  free.  So  I  raised  the  stakes.  I  told  the  loudspeaker  I  agreed  to  be  executed  anyway  if  it  could  guess  my  name  within  twenty-four  hours.  I'm  writing  this  at  midnight,  cow-  ering  in  a  motel  room  in  one  of  the  failure  zones.  Where  I'll  be  by  morn-  ing  is  another  riddle.  Why  did  I  do  it?  I  just  wanted  to  be  sure.  Does  the  word  &quot;insurance&quot;  ring  a  bell?  Because  that's  the  bottom  line  here,  Doctor,  let's  face  it:  I  am  a  risk-  insurance  addict.  And  so  are  you.  We  can't  help  it.  It's  an  illness.  I  don't  want  to  be  a  wet  blanket,  but  take  my  advice  and  do  not  follow  in  my  foot-  steps.  You're  only  deceiving  yourself.  You  and  I  are  incapable  of  han-  dling  normal  human  risk;  we'll  always  find  some  way  to  escalate  it  into  the  same  old  roller-coaster  ride  driven  by  our  love-hate  dependency  on  the  cruel  whims  of  the  very  predators  we  claim  to  be  running  away  from,  and  there  is  no  running  away.  Not  by  going  into  the  laundry  business,  or  into  telemarketing  or  small-engine  repair.  Get  some  help  for  your-  self.  It's  probably  too  late  for  me,  but  please,  as  a  professional  courtesy,  do  not  give  out  my  name.  "