 b"DIXIE  moves  the  cushion  off  the  D  bench  in  the  dinette  and  props  it  against  the  cinder-block  steps  to  the  trailer,  so  she  can  lie  in  the  sun.  It  snowed  acouple  of  days  ago,  and  now  it  could  be  summer  it's  so  hot.  If  you  don't  like  the  weather,  wait  a  bit  and  it  will  change-that's  what  they  say  around  here.  This  trailer  and  one  otherstand  on  a  narrow  strip  of  land  next  to  the  [REDACTED].  In  every  direction,  there  are  mountain  views  that  could  have  come  right  off  picture  postcards,  but  some-  how  from  inside  the  trailer,  no  matter  which  window  you  look  through,  all  you  see  is  parking  lot.  Jewel,  Dixie's  small  black-and-  white  shepherd  dog,  is  nosing  through  the  garbage  bins  behind  the  store.  &quot;Jewel,  get  out  of  there!&quot;  Dixie  calls.  Jewel  comes  over,  tail  wagging,  and  has  a  drink  from  a  little  puddle  of  melted  snow  that  is  forming  at  the  edge  of  the  cushion.  Dixie  pushes  her  back.  The  water's  probably  full  of  salt  or  whatever  they  spread  on  parking  lots.  Dixie  is  reading  a  Treat  Redheart  book  she  borrowed.  The  thing  about  Treat  Redheart's  books  is  they  are  all  different  but  all  the  same,  set  in  the  Old  [REDACTED],  when  there  were  Indians,  out-  laws,  bounty  hunters.  And  they  are  authentic.  You  won't  find  even  a  weed  growing  where  it  shouldn't.  That's  what  everyone  says  is  good  about  the  books,  their  authenticity.  What  Dixie  likes  is  their  certainty.  She  knows,  for  instance,  that  in  this  book  Adam  McCrae,  a  good  man,  who's  had  hard  luck  all  his  life,  will  end  up  getting  married  to  Harriet  Dunroe,  an  inde-  pendent  woman  of  twenty-eight,  who's  had  plenty  of  suitors  but  has  turned  them  all  down  because  she'd  rather  stay  single  than  marry  the  wrong  man.  You  can  watch  them  moving  toward  each  other  and  you  know  that  however  many  Indian  war  parties,  bounty  hunters,  or  wrong  men  and  women  crosstheir  paths,  the  two  of  them  (he  might  be  wounded-almost  certainly  will  be-  in  the  course  of  protecting  her)  will  end  up  together.  That's  why  Dixie  keeps  going  back  to  Redheart;  it's  like  a  healing  spring.  &quot;What  the  fuck  are  you  doing?&quot;  Shane,  bare-chested,  wearing  his  jeans,  hat,  and  boots,  has  just  gotten  out  of  bed.  THUMB  &quot;I'm  reading  in  the  sun.  What's  it  look  like  to  you?&quot;  &quot;Lying  out  like  that,  you  make  the  place  look  like  trash.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;What,  are  you  on  the  beautification  committee  or  something?&quot;  You  would  never  find  this  conversa-  tion  in  one  of  Treat  Redheart's  books.  It  seems  to  Dixie  that  events  such  as  this  conversation,  events  that  don't  fit  in  and  don't  make  sense,  are  always  coming  up  in  her  life-which  is  why  her  life  isn't  working  out.  &quot;Why  don't  you  make  some  coffee  at  least?&quot;  Shane  says  now.  &quot;You  just  flop  down  with  a  book  like  you're  at  a  resort  or  something.&quot;  &quot;Don't  worry.  I  know  I'm  not  at  any  resort.&quot;  Shane  hasa  new  attitude  she  doesn't  like  at  all-that  she  should  be  doing  chores,  earning  her  keep,  even  though  she  already  pays  half  the  rent.  Redheart's  picture  is  on  the  back  of  the  book.  From  his  face  and  neck  you  can  tell  he's  heavy,  probably  short,  and,  although  he  always  wears  a  straw  cow-  boy  hat,  certainly  bald.  Without  the  hat  he  would  look  like  a  laughing  Buddha.  Dixie  sees  him  looming,  fat  and  smil-  ing,  over  the  mesas  and  canyons,  his  short,  blunt  fingers  pushing  McCrae  nearer  and  nearer  to  Harriet:  She  set  the  cups  on  the  table.  Her  hands  were  strong,  capable  of  chopping  wood  or  hauling  water,  but  they  were  gentle,  the  hands  of  a  wife  or  mother.  When  McCrae  looked  at  them,  something  went  quiet  in-  side  him.  &quot;Are  you  going  to  make  that  coffee,  or  what?&quot;  Shane  shoves  the  cushion  with  his  boot.  Harriet  wouldn't  stand  for  anyone  shoving  her  cushion.  Redheart  heroes  know  when  to  fight  and  when  to  walk  away,  but  Dixie  most  of  the  time  lets  her  mood  decide,  which  is  wrong.  On  this  sunny  Easter  morning,  with  Jewel  wanting  her  breakfast  anyhow,  it  seems  easiest  just  to  make  the  coffee.  Dixie  hauls  herself  off  the  cushion,  stretches,  lifts  her  hair  back  from  her  shoulders.  As  she  goes  by,  she  brushes  Shane  with  her  hip.  Shane  used  to  boil  coffee  and  water  in  a  big  pot,  cowboy  style,  and  then  Dixie  bought  an  automatic  coffeemaker  at  Cashman  &amp;  Sons.  Shane  called  it  a  waste  of  money,  but  she's  noticed  he  doesn't  boil  his  coffee  anymore.  &quot;Shit!  We're  out  of  milk,&quot;  Shane  says.  Dixie  nudges  him  out  of  the  way  to  look  in  the  refrigerator.  There's  a  jar  of  pickles,  some  marshmallows  left  over  from  she's  forgotten  when,  a  can  of  Pacifico  beer,  and  a  piece  of  pizza  that  should  be  thrown  out,  but  nothing  she  can  use  for  milk.  &quot;If  you'll  stop  bitchin'  for  a  minute,  I'll  run  over  to  the  [REDACTED]  and  get  you  some.  I'm  out  of  dog  food,  too.&quot;  See  if  you  can  score  some  of  those  wholewheat  doughnuts  so  long  as  you're  going.&quot;  Harriet  and  McCrae  wouldn't  run  out  of  milk,  because  they'd  have  a  ranch  with  a  milk  cow  (a  dream  they  hold  separately  but  haven't  confided  to  each  other).  Dixie  wants  even  less-a  cabin  with  maybe  an  acre,  enough  for  a  few  animals.  She's  wanted  that  ever  since  she  headed  out  from  [REDACTED],  butshe  hasn't  been  steadfast  enough.  If  you  get  animage  of  your  goal  and  think  about  it  every  day,  eventually  you  will  attain  it.  This  is  called  Creative  Imaging.  She  believes  in  it  and  knows  it  has  worked  for  lots  of  people,  but  things  get  busy  and  she  gets  distracted  and  forgets  to  image.  The  reason  she  came  to  [REDACTED]  in  the  first  place  was  to  cancel  out  the  mistakes  of  the  past  and  begin  living  her  life  according  to  plan.  She  was  born  by  mistake,  as  her  mother  and  grandmother  were  always  ready  to  re-  mind  her,  meaning  she'd  better  behave,  because  she  was  living  under  her  grandparents'  roof,  and  even  on  this  earth,  only  as  an  uninvited  guest.  In  later  years,  when  her  father  would  come  to  take  her  home  to  his  new  family  for  a  visit  in  the  summer,  she  had  to  help  her  stepmother  with  the  babies,  and  she  always  felt  she  was  part  of  that  family  not  by  right  but  because  she  was  useful.  One  day  in  tenth-grade  biology,  Miss  Spencer  pulled  down  a  chart  that  had  been  hanging  rolled  up  on  the  wall  since  the  beginning  of  the  year.  It  showed  the  development  of  the  human  embryo.  Dixie  saw  how  the  little  ball  of  cells  grew,  then  folded  in  on  itself  " b"and  began  developing  a  head  and  body,  hands,  eyes,  mouth,  all  in  perfect  order.  For  the  first  time  she  saw  that  although  her  mother  and  father  had  made  a  mistake,  she  herself  had  come  together  perfectly  according  to  plan.  It  gave  her  hope.  Of  course,  she  made  mistakes  after  that.  She  should  have  gone  to  college;  sheshouldn't  have  married  Bruce.  But  at  least  she'd  been  able  to  leave  Bruce  behind  her  and  get  out  here,  where  she  could  work  on  a  plan  for  the  rest  of  her  life.  Now  Shane  is  lying  on  the  cushion,  reading  her  book  and  smoking  a  ciga-  rette.  &quot;It's  pretty  good,  isn't  it?&quot;  she  says.  &quot;'They're  all  alike.  Did  you  get  the  doughnuts?&quot;  Dixie  hands  him  the  doughnuts  and  goes  in  for  the  coffee.  Jewel  is  waiting  patiently  by  her  dish.  When  Dixie  first  knew  him,  Shane  used  to  talk  about  buying  some  land  out  on  Conners  [REDACTED]  Road.  He  said  the  trailer  was  onlytemporary,  until  he  could  get  together  the  down  payment  on  a  place.  And  the  trailer  did  look  like  an  arrangement  he'd  made  for  onlya  month  or  two.  His  clothes  were  in  duffels  under  his  bed,  and  his  saddle  was  just  inside  the  door,  waiting  for  a  horse.  After  Dixie  moved  in,  she  bought  some  secondhand  furniture,  a  dresser  and  a  couple  of  chairs.  She  sewed  curtains  for  the  windows.  Maybe  she  shouldn't  have.  &quot;Doesn't  that  book  make  you  want  to  saddle  up  some  old  pony  and  go  riding  up  to  the  Divide  and  sleep  out  under  the  stars?&quot;  Dixie  hands  Shane  his  coffee.  Shane  stirs  it  with  his  doughnut.  &quot;I'll  be  doing  that  soon  enough,  I  guess.  Jim  Cosby  says  they're  going  to  need  an  extra  wrangler  over  at  the  Glen  Springs  guest  ranch.&quot;  &quot;I  mean  just  us.  I  could  get  a  few  days  off.&quot;  &quot;In  this  mud  and  snow?&quot;  &quot;Later,  in  June.&quot;  &quot;'They  got  all  those  flies  that  time  of  year.&quot;  &quot;We  could  go  up  anyway,  do  some  fishing-&quot;  But  with  all  the  flies  it  might  not  be  so  great.  And  in  July  the  mosquitoes  are  terrible.  The  best  time  is  August,  when  Shane  will  be  working  at  Glen  Springs.  &quot;Maybe  you  could  score  me  a  gig  as  a  cook  and  I  could  go  withyou,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;'They  got  cooks.&quot;  Shane  wipes  his  hands  on  his  jeans  and  rolls  another  cigarette.  He  picks  up  the  book  again.  &quot;Excuse  me.  I  think  I  was  reading  that.&quot;  She  plucks  it  from  him  and  goes  inside.  It's  colder  in  than  out.  The  trailer  is  dark,  and  smells  like  old  sheets.  She  could  wash  the  sheets,  but  who  wants  to  spend  Easter  morning  in  the  Coin-  Op,  which  is  probably  closed  anyway!  She  opens  all  the  windows  and  takes  the  quilt  off  the  bed  so  she  can  curl  up  under  it  while  she  reads  on  the  couch:  He  led  her  to  a  place  where  she  could  see  the  canyon  and  the  steep  trails  leading  up.  He  told  her  she  might  have  to  wait  for  hours,  all  day  and  possibly  all  night,  too.  If  an  Apache  came  up  this  sideof  the  canyon  she  had  to  be  prepared  to  kill  him.  Could  she  do  it?  She  took  the  rifle  from  him.  Her  hands  were  pale  but  steady.  It  was  McCrae  who  trembled,  not  visi-  bly  but  inside,  to  think  that  those  hands  might  have  to  kill.  He  hoped  he  would  live  to  see  them  again.  &quot;Goodbye  then.  If  I'm  not  back  by  noon  tomorrow,  lead  your  horse  down  the  back  and  head  for  Soda  Flats.  I  have  a  friend  at  the  saloon  there,  Shorty  Stone.  He'll  take  care  of  you.&quot;  She  murmured  her  thanks,  but  he  was  already  gone,  silent  as  an  Indian.  She  won-  dered  if  she'd  ever  see  him  alive  again.  She  hears  the  refrigerator  door  open-  ing  and  closing  and  then  the  outside  door  slams  shut.  &quot;Shane?&quot;  By  the  time  she  gets  to  the  door,  Shane's  pickup  is  pulling  out  onto  theroad.  The  cushion  is  still  on  the     steps.  She  pours  another  cup  of  coffee  and  takes  her  book  out  to  the  sun.  HANE  sits  in  his  truck  looking  at  the  Lost  Dollar-its  one  dusty  win-  dow,  with  the  unlit  neon  sign  thatsays  &quot;Coors,&quot;  and  the  fake-stone  asbestos  siding  peeling  by  the  door.  It  looks  as  if  it  had  been  closed  since  the  last  cowboy  staggeredout  after  drinking  himself  soggy  to  make  up  for  two  dry  months  on  the  range,  or  since  the  last  grizzled  prospector  came  down  from  Poverty  Basin  and  announced  there  wasn't  enough  gold  up  there  to  fill  a  tooth  with.  But  in  fact  it  was  open  last  night  and  will  open  again  today.  Not  for  a  while  though,  because  it's  Easter.  Why  is  he  here?  He  pulls  the  tab  on  a  can  of  Pacifico  he  brought  from  home.  What  was  his  life  like  before  Dixie  infected  it?  He  can't  remember,  so  it  must  have  been  O.K.  He  doesn't  even  know  how  he  got  mixed  up  with  her,  just  that  one  morning  he  woke  up  and  she  was  in  bed  with  him.  She  got  up  and  started  fixing  breakfast  as  ifit  were  the  regular  thing  to  do-she  didn't  even  ask  where  anything  was.  They  must  have  struck  a  bargain  at  the  Lost  Dollar  the  night  before,  a  bargain  he  couldn't  recall  the  terms  of.  He'd  heard  of  her  before  he  saw  her  -a  flake  who'd  come  to  town  with  a  goat  and  some  pet  snakes  in  her  car.  There  are  plenty  of  that  type  coming  and  going.  Priest  [REDACTED]  attracts  them,  and  sooner  or  later  they  all  show  up  at  the  Lost  Dollar.  When  Dixie  did,  he  was  surprised  that  she  was  so  young  and  cute.  She  was  little  (that  was  before  she  got  lardy  in  the  thighs).  Shehad  a  Southern  accent-still  does,  especially  " b"after  a  couple  of  beers.  She'dnever  been  out  [REDACTED]  before;  she'd  never  known  a  cowboy.  She  perched  on  the  barstool,  and  her  eyes  shone  when  he  mentioned  five-foot  rattlers  lying  across  the  trail  or  the  time  they  had  to  go  up  to  the  Divide  and  rescue  a  group  that  had  got  lost  in  a  snowstorm.  Now  she's  heard  all  his  stories.  He  tosses  the  empty  can  and  heads  up  Canyon  Road  toward  Devil's  Thumb.  He  parks  in  a  turnout  where  some  hiking  trails  begin  and  gets  out  to  piss  away  the  beer.  The  view  surprises  him.  It  always  does.  He  forgets  what  it  does  to  him  until  he's  here  and  sees  the  land,  unmarked  for  miles,  with  a  few  ranches  tucked  in  beside  frozen  creeks,  looking  the  way  it  might  have  looked  a  hundred  years  ago.  He  breathes  deeply.  The  air  up  here  can  wash  out  your  soul.  He  kicks  over  the  yellow  place,  making  it  white  again.  He  goes  back  to  the  truck  and  twists  off  the  wire  that  holds  the  glove  com-  partment  shut,  and  fishes  out  a  poem  he's  been  working  on:  A  cowboy  sits  astride  his  steed.  His  heart  is  proud  and  free.  Although  his  work  is  hard  and  long  There'snothing  he'd  rather  be.  At  first,  it  sounds  even  better  than  he  remembered,  but  on  second  reading  he  isn't  sure  if  &quot;his  heart&quot;  might  not  be  taken  to  mean  the  horse's  heart.  He  could  change  &quot;steed&quot;  to  &quot;mare,&quot;  but  he  likes  the  way  &quot;steed&quot;  works  with  &quot;free&quot;  and  &quot;be.&quot;  When  Shane  was  thirteen  he  won  a  Fourth  of  July  poetry  contest  and  got  a  twenty-five-dollar  prize.  For  about  a  year  after  that,  he  wrote  a  lot  of  poems  and  then  he  forgot  about  it,  but  a  cowboy  poetry  contest  in  the  Priest  [REDACTED]  Crier  brought  it  all  back.  It  was  the  prize  money  that  got  him  started,  but  now  he  likes  the  way  writing  poetry  takes  his  head  to  a  different  place,  especially  when  he  works  out  here.  Last  week,  he  had  to  run  the  engine  to  keep  warm,  but  today  the  sun  is  pouring  in,  warm-  ing  his  thighs  so  he  can  almost  feel  the  horse  under  him,  alert,  waiting.  SHANE  threw  away  his  watch  when  he  quit  his  job  in  [REDACTED]  and  moved  to  [REDACTED],  so  he  can't  tell  how  long  he's  been  asleep.  The  pines  are  casting  deep-purple  shadows,  and  Dev-  il's  Thumb  stands  out  red  against  the  fir-covered  mountains  behind.  It's  an  effect  that  is  caused  by  the  setting  sun,  the  rays  slanting  at  an  angle  and  bring-  ing  out  the  reds.  Shane  learned  about  this  in  physics,  but  he  can't  recall  the  name  for  it.  Something's  got  to  be  wrong  with  his  brain,  when  a  name  he  once  strug-  gled  to  memorize  can  evaporate  out,  and  information  he'd  like  to  forget  is  preserved  there,  clear  and  sharp.  For  instance,  he  remembers  more  about  his  ex-wife,  Ginny,  than  he  ever  thought  he  knew,  and  they  weren't  together  that  long.  He  married  her  because  she  was  pregnant  and  he  couldn't  see  him-  self  telling  her  to  go  get  an  abortion.  That  wasn't  the  kind  of  man  he  wanted  to  be,  although  he  wouldn't  have  mind-  ed  if  she  had  just  quietly  gone  off  and  had  it  done  and  told  him  afterward.  Then  the  baby  was  born  three  months  early,  with  a  membrane  in  its  lungs,  and  died  the  next  day.  Soon  after  that,  Shane  just  quit  everything-Ginny,  his  job-and  headed  [REDACTED].  It's  a  part  of  his  life  he  doesn't  tell  anyone.  Dixie  knows.  He  told  her  once,  and  she  said  it  was  understandable-that  he  needed  to  leave  the  old  life  behind,  that  it  was  too  messed  up  to  fix.  The  only  solution  was  to  start  new.  His  poem  is  no  good.  He  sees  that  now,  reading  it  again.  He  strikes  a  match  and  holds  the  poem  over  the  flame.  The  ash  floats  out  the  open  window.  It's  a  good  thing  he  realized  the  poem  was  lousy  before  he  spent  a  lot  of  time  on  it  and  then  submitted  it  to  the  Crier.  That  could  have  been  embarrassing.  It's  colder  now,  and  there's  a  wind  whining  through  the  trees.  Devil's  Thumb  looks  dark  and  angry,  almost  like  a  warning.  Shane  starts  the  engine  and  gets  the  heater  blowing.  He's  thinking  about  going  home  and  crawl-  ing  in  bed  with  Dixie.  For  all  her  sloppy  ways,  she  can  be  sweet,  and  she  smells  good-qualities  he  tends  tofor-  get  sometimes.  DIXIE  closes  the  book  and  wipes  her  eyes  with  her  hand.  McCrae  will  recover,  and  he  and  Harriet  will  get  that  ranch.  Redheart  doesn't  write  it  all  down;  it's  just  understood.  She  wishes  sometimes  that  he  would  keep  going  even  after  the  story  has  run  out,  put-  ting  down  the  ordinary  things.  She  feels  there  is  something  he  isn't  telling,  some  secret  that  might  come  out  if  he  kept  on.  &quot;Is  that  book  sad,  is  that  why  you're  crying?&quot;  Frankie  Delaney  is  sitting  on  the  steps  of  his  trailer,  scratching  Jewel  behind  the  ears.  It  used  to  bother  Dixie,  the  way  he'd  come  out  to  watch  her,  but  now  she's  used  to  him.  He  got  hit  in  the  head,  skiing,  when  he  was  nine  years  old,  and  his  mind  never  grew  after  that.  He's  like  a  little  boy  in  a  man's  body.  He  reminds  her  of  her  half  brother,  Lee,  when  he  was  little  and  got  confused  and  called  her  Mommy.  &quot;Did  you  get  off  for  Easter?&quot;  she  asks  him.  &quot;I  worked  this  morning.  I  saw  you  come  in  for  doughnuts.  Easter  don't  matter  to  me.&quot;  He  buries  his  face  in  Jewel's  fur.  Frankie's  par-  ents  moved  away  ayear  or  two  ago  and  left  him  here  in  Priest  [REDACTED]  to  work  at  the  [REDACTED].  You'd  think  they'd  at  least  send  him  abus  tick-  et  sometime  so  he  could  visit  them.  They  moved  to  [REDACTED]  or  Ver-  " b"mont,  she  can't  remember  which.  She  drags  the  cushion  inside  and  turns  it  on  end  so  she  can  wipe  off  the  dirt.  The  place  looks  forlorn-dishes  dirty  in  the  sink,  bed  all  apart.  Her  bra  and  Shane's  socks  are  tangled  on  the  floor.  She  could  clean  it  all  up,  do  the  dishes,  even  take  a  load  to  the  Coin-Op.  There's  time  to  go  to  the  [REDACTED]  and  get  some  food,  maybe  make  a  pan  of  macaroni  and  cheese.  Shane  loves  her  macaroni  and  cheese.  She  could  make  that,  and  they  could  eatin  front  of  the  TV,  drink  some  cold  beers,  and  after-  ward  get  in  between  some  clean  sheets.  She  puts  a  Doors  tape  into  her  Walkman  and  tears  the  sheets  off  the  bed,  piles  dirty  laundry  into  them,  ties  them  in  a  bundle,  and  tosses  it  into  her  car.  &quot;Hey,  Frankie,  do  you  have  any  laundry?  I'll  give  you  a  lift  to  the  Coin-Op.&quot;  He  jumps  up,  spilling  Jewel  onto  the  ground,  and  runs  into  his  trailer.  Dixie  smiles  to  see  him  coming  out  with  just  a  few  things  in  a  pillowcase.  He  didn't  really  have  much  laundry,  just  wants  her  company.  They're  in  luck,  because  no  one's  there.  Frankie  takes  care  of  his  bundle  while  Dixie  separates  her  wash  into  whites,  lights,  and  darks.  She  buys  some  bleach  from  the  vending  machine  and  gets  three  ma-  chines  going.  It's  a  good  sound,  three  machines  filling  up  with  water.  Frankie's  sitting  in  the  molded  plastic  chair  in  front  of  his  machine.&quot;I  have  a  red  shirt  in  there.  I  like  to  see  when  it  comes  up,&quot;  he  explains.  Dixie  sits  beside  him  and  watches  for  the  red  shirt  to  wig-  gle  out  from  the  rest  of  the  clothes  and  press  against  the  glass.  It  stays  there  for  a  while  and  then  tunnels  down  to  the  back,  or  something  whisks  it  over  the  top.  After  a  while,  she  be-  gins  to  yawn,  so  she  goes  outside  for  a  breath  of  air.  She  rec-  ognizes  Jim  Cosby's  pickup  parked  at  the  Lost  Dollarnext  door.  She  goes  back  and  calls,  &quot;Frankie?&quot;  He  turns  reluctantly  from  the  ma-  chine  to  look  at  her.  &quot;Would  you  tell  me  when  my  wash  needs  to  go  in  the  dryer?&quot;  &quot;Well,  where're  you  going  to  be?&quot;  &quot;I'm  just  going  over  to  the  Lost  Dollar  to  see  someone.  [REDACTED]  yourhead  in  when  the  wash  stops,  will  you?&quot;  It  looks  like  all  the  men  of  Priest  [REDACTED]  are  packed  into  the  Lost  Dollar.  The  ones  who  have  families  and  have  been  with  them  all  day,  because  of  the  holiday,  have  come  to  get  away  from  them,  and  the  ones  who  don't  have  families  have  come  because  it's  lonely  being  without  family  on  a  holi-  day.  Dixie  likes  being  in  a  room  full  of  men,  as  long  as  she  knows  them.  Some-  thing  about  a  bunch  of  male  bodies-it  charges  up  the  air.  And  they're  friend-  lier  in  a  group.  Dusty  Halstead  comes  over  and  gives  hera  beery  kiss.  Jim  Cosby  buys  hera  draft.  &quot;Where's  Shane?  Didn't  he  come  with  you?&quot;  Jim  looks  at  the  door.  Dixie  looks,  too.  &quot;I  don't  know  where  he  went.  I  figured  he'd  be  here.  You  haven't  seen  him?&quot;  &quot;I  just  got  here.  Maybe  he  left  before  I  came.&quot;&quot;He  probablyhasa  woman  some-  place.&quot;  &quot;Why  would  he  have  a  woman  when  he  has  you?&quot;  Jim  puts  his  arm  around  her  shoulders.  He  has  three  little  kids  and  a  skinny  wife  who  wraps  meat  at  the  [REDACTED].  &quot;I  don't  know,  it  seems  like  he's  always  leaving  and  never  tells  me  where  he's  going.&quot;  &quot;Well,  Shane,  he's  a  complicated  man.&quot;  &quot;I  know.&quot;  &quot;He's  moody.&quot;  Jim  finds  two  stools  for  them  at  the  bar.  Dixie  getsso  interested  intheir  talk  that  when  Frankie  comes  into  tell  her  the  wash  is  ready  for  the  dryer  it  seems  only  five  minutes  have  passed.  &quot;I'll  be  right  there,  soon's  I  finish  this  beer,&quot;  she  says.  Jim  has  bought  her  another  and  is  telling  her  that  she  might  be  able  to  work  over  at  Glen  Springs  as  a  cook  on  one  of  the  trips.  &quot;Shane  was  just  being-you  know  how  he  gets,&quot;  he  says,  and  snakes  his  arm  down  so  his  hand  is  on  her  breast.  She  scoots  out  from  under  his  arm.  She  has  to  go,  her  wash  is  ready.  &quot;Hold  on.  You  haven't  finished  your  beer.  Here,  let  me  buyyou  some  beer  nuts.  You  like  beer  nuts?&quot;  Dixie  is  talking  to  Dusty  and  Jim  and  she  can't  think  for  a  moment  what  Frankie  is  do-  ing,  standing  there  with  his  pillowcase  over  his  shoulder.  Then  she  remembers.  &quot;Oh,  my  God!  The  wash!&quot;  &quot;It's  too  late,&quot;  Frankie  says.  &quot;It's  locked.  It  closes  at  seven  on  Sundays,  Dixie.&quot;  &quot;Why  didn't  you  tell  [REDACTED];  &quot;I  tried  to,  and  you  got  mad,  remem-  ber?  You  told  me  to  quit  pestering.  I  just  came  in  now  be-cause  Mr.  Petrillo  is  going  to  give  me  a  ride  home,  and  he  said  I  should  tell  you.&quot;  When  Frankie  leaves,  Dixie  sees  that  it's  pitch-dark  " b"outside.  Where  didthe  after-  noon  go?  6C  IX?\xe2\x80\x9d  D  Jewel  comes  out  of  the  bedroom  wagging  her  tail,  scrap-  ing  her  bottom  along  the  floor.  The  cushion  Dixie  took  outside  in  the  morning  is  standing  on  end,  caked  with  mud.  There's  an  empty  doughnut  box  on  the  counter,  and  the  milk  she  bought  this  morn-  ing.  Shane  puts  it  in  the  refriger-  ator  and  takes  out  a  piece  of  pizza.  He  bites  into  it,  then  spits  it  into  the  sink.  It's  green  on  the  bottom.  The  mattress  is  bare;  the  quilt  is  on  the  couch.  Jewel  keeps  follow-  ing  him,  whimpering.  He  goes  to  kick  her,  but  it's  not  her  fault.  He  finds  some  kibble  in  the  cupboard  to  give  her.  No  food  for  him,  but  there's  food  for  her  dog.  Frankie  Delaney  is  standing  by  Shane's  truck  looking  as  if  he  had  something  to  tell  him.  &quot;Frankie,  you  seen  her?&quot;  Shane  says.  Frankie  ducks  his  head.  He's  hard  to  understand,  because  he's  talking  into  his  jacket.  &quot;We  went  over  to  the  Coin-  Op,  and  while  the  clothes  was  working  she  went  into  the  Lost  Dollar.  I  told  her  the  clothes  was  ready,  but  she  didn't  come  out.  Mr.  Petrillo  gave  me  a  ride  home,  but  I  don't  know  what  she's  going  to  do,  because  the  Coin-Op's  closed  now.  It  closes  at  seven  on  Sun-  days.&quot;  Anger  streams  through  Shane,  mak-  ing  him  righteous  and  strong.  Making  him  gleeful.  He  could  laugh  but  he  doesn't,  because  Frankie  is  watching.  Instead  he  clenches  his  jaw  and  leaps  into  his  truck.  &quot;Are  you  going  to  hit  her,  Shane?&quot;  Frankie  throws  his  arms  across  his  face,  as  if  he  had  seen  something  terri-  ble,  but  it's  only  the  headlights  sweep-  ing  by.   AS  it  a  full  moon,  or  what,  last  night?  Because  if  it  was  a  full  moon  that  might  explain  it.  Dixie  can't  remember  any  moon  at  all,  only  the  headlights  from  Shane's  truck  when  he  cut  her  off  as  she  was  driving  away  from  the  Lost  Dollar.  Then  there  was  the  light  in  the  open  door  of  the  Lost  Dollar  when  everyone  came  out  to  see  what  was  happening.  Jim  Cosby  and  Dusty  held  Shane while  he  ranted  and  swore,  all  because  of  some  wash  left  overnight.  She  can't  remember  what  she  said,  only  the  feeling  of  choosing  her  fight  and  stand-  ing  her  ground,  like  someone  at  the  end  of  a  Redheart  novel,  when  he's  run  all  he  can  and  now  it's  time  to  shoot  it  out.  All  the  way  home  she  was  shouting  things  like  &quot;I  have  a  right  after  all!&quot;  and  &quot;Why  should  I  spend  two  minutes  in  his  stinking  trailer?&quot;  and  &quot;It's  my  life!&quot;  She  pulled  her  clothes  out  of  the  drawer  and  her  suitcase  from  under  the  bed.  And  then  the  light  bulb  blew  out.  She  went  into  the  living  room  to  take  the  bulb  out  of  the  lamp  there  and  saw  the  quilt,  which  she  wrapped  around  herself  because  she  was  cold.  She  went  back  into  the  bedroom  with  the  light  bulb  and  suddenly  she  felt  very  tired,  so  she  put  her  suitcase  on  the  floor  and  lay  down  on  the  bed,  still  wrapped  in  the  quilt.  Sometime  in  the  middle  of  the  night,  she  woke  up  tofind  Shane  un-  dressing  her.  And  then  they  were  doing  it  as  though  it  were  something  they'd  been  wanting  to  do  all  day  and  hadn't  got  around  to.  Now  he's  sleeping  in  the  quilt  and  she's  shivering  on  the  bare  mattress.  She  pulls  at  the  quilt.  He  mutters,  but  gives  it  up  and  throws  an  arm  across  her.  Dixie  feels  his  body  warm  against  her  and  remembers  that  making  love  felt  good  last  night.  But  so  did  telling  him  off.  But  so  did  taking  the  clothes  to  the  Coin-Op  and  putting  them  in  the  machines.  She  wishes  someone  would  unroll  the  chart  of  her  life  so  she  could  see  the  stages.  Maybe  she's  going  through  one  of  those  steps  that  look  wrong  but  later  turn  out  to  be  right,  like  when  the  embryo  grows  a  tail  that  disappears  later  on.  Then  she  sits  up  and  sees  her  suitcase  and  her  clothes  all  over  the  floor  and  Shane's  jeans  crumpled  on  top  of  his  boots  at  the  side  of  the  bed,  and  she  thinks  of  three  machines  full  of  wet  laundry  that  someone  will  take  out  and  pile  somewhere,  so  it  will  fall  on  the  floor  and  get  dirty  all  over  again,  and  she  knows  this  can't  be  right.  If  there's  a  definite  plan  before  you're  born-all  those  steps  toward  getting  you  into  your  life-there  must  be  a  plan  for  once  you're  in  it,  and  something  is  blocking  her  plan.  She's  like  an  ant  that's  trying  to  get  someplace,  and  someone  keeps  sticking  his  big  old  thumb  in  her  way,  making  her  go  in  crazy  zigzags  instead  of  one  straight  line.  She  gets  out  of  bed  and  hugs  her  naked  body  in  the  cold.  A  life  should  go  toward  something,  the  way  life  does  in  Treat  Redheart's  books.  It  should  go  forward. "