 b"Mrs.  Scnupinc  lived  on  a  mori-  M  bund  estate  that  had  oncebeen  grand  enough  in  trees  alone  that  a  shipbuilder  scouting  live  oaks  in  the  eighteenth  century  hadbought  the  tract  for  wood  to  make  warships  for  the  British  Navy.  Oak  ofthat  sort,  when  fitted  and  shipped  into  six-inch  walls,  would  not  merely  withstand  or  absorb  cannonballs  but  repel  them  a  good  way  toward  their  source.  Mrs.  Schuping  did  not  know  this,  but  she  knew  she  had  big  old  trees,  and  she  patted  their  flanks  when  she  strolled  the  grounds.  The  house  had  died.  So  slatternly,  so  ratty  was  it  that  Mrs.  Schuping  was  afraid  to  enter  it  again  once  she  had  worked  up  the  courage  to  go  out  of  it,  which  was  more  dangerous.  She  had  been  hit  by  boards  twice  while  leaving  the  house  but  never  when  going  in.  There  was  no  such  thing  as  falling-  down  insurance,  an  actuarial  nicety  that  flabbergasted  and  enraged  Mrs.  Schuping.  Falling  down  was  what  re-  ally  plagued  houses,  therefore  that  was  what  you  could  not  protect  them  from  by  lottery.  She  called  herself  Mrs.  Schuping  arbitrarily.  She  had  no  husband  nor  had  she  ever  found  in  the  least  logical  the  idea  of  having  one  man  whom  you  so  designated.  Wholly  preposterous.  She  had  a  good  toaster.  It  was  a  four-  slice  commercial  stainless  square  job,  missing  its  push-down  knobs,  so  that  you  had  to  depress  the  naked  notched  metal  thingies  to  lower  the  bread.  It  looked  like  you'd  need  a  rag  to  protect  your  hand,  but  you  did  not.  Perhaps  if  you  were  hustling  breakfasts  in  a  good  diner  you  might,  butnot  slowly,  at  home.  Life  was  winnowing  for  Mrs.  Schuping.  When  she  bought  the  house,  she  had  found  a  huge  collection  of  opera  rec-  ords,  of  which  she  knew  nothing  except  that  they  sounded  ridiculous.  This  collection  she  played  dutifully,  over  and  over,  until  it  was  memorized,  un-  til  it  could  not  be  said  that  she  was  ignorant  of  opera.  When  she  hadmas-  tered  the  collection,  she  wondered  why,  and  she  sailed  the  records,  one  by  one,  into  the  swamp  behind  the  rot-  ting  house.  She  winnowed  the  collec-  tionof  opera  records  until  it  was  a  collection  of  cardboard  boxes,  and  eventually  used  those  to  set  her  first  swamp  fire.  Setting  the  swamp  on  fire  was  not  a  winnowing  of  her  life,  but  it  did  win-  now  the  swamp.  The  burnings  seemed  to  her  rather  naughty  and  frivolous,  and  surprisingly  agreeable  to  look  at  and  to  smell.  She  took  an  un-adult pleasure  in  them,along  with  an  adult  fear  that  she  might  be  somehow  break-  ing  the  law  even  though  the  swamp  was  hers.  The  second  time  she  set  the  mangy  tangled  tract  on  fire  the  sheriff  showed  up,  and  she  became  sure  it  was  the  case  that  you  could  not  burn  your  own  swamp.  The  sheriff,  whom  she  had  not  met  before,  confirmed  her  anxiety  with  his  opening  remark.  &quot;Your  swamp  is  on  fire,&quot;  he  said,  standing  about  fifteen  feet  off  her  right  shoulder  and  slightly  behind  her.  She  turned  to  him  and  said,  not  knowing  what  inhell  else  she  might,  &quot;Yes,  it  is.&quot;  The  sheriff  stood  there  regarding  first  her  and  then  the  swamp  and  the  fire,  which  gave  his  face  a  jack-o'-lan-  tern-orange  sheen,  and  said  again,  &quot;The  swamp  is  on  fire.&quot;  The  empha-  sis  was  meant  to  confirm  his  sympa-  thies  with  having  fires,  and  upon  estab-  lishing  that  bond  he  walked  briskly  to  Mrs.  Schuping's  side  and  planted  his  feet  and  crossed  his  arms  and  cocked  back  to  watch  the  fire  with  her  in  an  attitude  that  suggested  he  would  be  con-  tent  to  watch  for  a  good  long  while.  When  he  breathed,  his  belt  and  holster  creaked.  Mrs.  Schuping  could  not  tell  if  his  affection  for  the  fire  was  genuine  ora  trap  of  the  infamous  misdirectional-  innocuous-talk  type  fa-  vored  by  country  police.  So  she  said  two  things.  &quot;Sheriff,  I  set  my  opera-collection  boxes  on  fire;  I  confess  they  were  in  the  swamp.&quot;  Then,  &quot;Sheriff,  I  do  not  need  a  man.&quot;  The  sheriff  looked  at  the  fire,  followed  it  up  into  the  high  parts  where  it  licked  at  the  grapevines  climbing  on  the  tupelo  gums.  It  was  a  hot  yellow  heat  in  the  slack  black-ass  muddy  gloom  of  a  nothing  swamp  that  needed  it.  He  had  been  taking  pure  aesthetic  enjoyment  from  the  thing  until  Mrs.  Schuping  said  what  she  said,  which  re-  minded  him  that  they  were  not  free  to  enjoy  this  mayhem  and  that  he  " b"had  to  undo  her  concern  with  his  presence.  Con-  cern  with  his  presence  was  -more  than  his  actual  job  ordinari-  ly;  it  was  how  he  made  his  living.  This  was  the  hard-  est  thing  about  being  sher-  iff:  you  could  not  go  off  duty.  A  city  cop  could.  They  even  provided  locker  rooms  andshowers  for  them;  and  he  imagined  laundry  and  dry-cleaning  takeout  services  for  the  uni-  forms.  But  a  sheriff  was  the  sheriff,  and  he  was  always,  always  up  to  something.  That  is  why  he  had  had  to  talk  like  a  fool  to  this  wom-  an  to  get  her  to  let  him  watch  her  fire  with  her.  How  else  excuse  standing  in  front  of  five  burning  acres  and  saying  &quot;on  fire&quot;?  But  it  had  not  worked.  And  this  men  thing.  &quot;Mizz  Shoop,  I  just-&quot;  &quot;It's  Schuping,&quot;  Mrs.  Schuping  said.  &quot;Yes'm.  I  know.  I  just  liketo  call  you  Shoop,  though.&quot;  With  this  the  sheriff  again  squared  off,  with  a  sigh,  to  watch  the  fire,  whatever  he  had  been  about  to  saycut  off  by  Mrs.  Schuping's  correcting  him.  He  hoped  he  had  begun  the  disman-  tling  of  her  concerns  with  his  presence,  both  legal  and  sexual.  He  was  aware  that  he  had  not  done  much  toward  either  end,  but  he  did  not  want  to  babble  while  watching  a  good  fire.  Unless  she  asked  him  off  the  property,  he'd  hold  his  ground.  Mrs.  Schuping  was  content,  having  posted  her  nolo  contendere  on  the  fire  and  her  #0  desire  on  the  man,  to  let  him  stand  there  and  breathe  and  creak  if  he  wanted  to.  She  had  been  a  little  hard  on  the  sheriff,  she  thought.  It  was  the  legal  partthat  worried  her  into  overstating  the  sexual  part.  Not  overstating,  misstating:  she  did  not  need  a  man,  but  wanting  was  another  question.  And  if  all  you  had  to  do  to  get  a  big  creaking  booger  like  this  one  was  set  your  back  yard  on  fire,  she  was  all  for  it.  FOUR  months  later  the  sheriff  and  Mrs.  Schuping  had  their  second  date.  He  saw  the  smoke  from  the  inter-  state,  where  he  was  parked  behind  the  Starvin'  Marvin  billboard  at  such  a  ridiculous  pitch  that  takeoff  was  nearly  vertical  and  he  resisted  blasting  off  for  speeders  unless  provoked  entirely.  What  had  been  provoking  him  entirely  lately  was  college  kids  with  their  feet  out  the  windows  of  BMWs,  headed  for  Dade  County,  [REDACTED],  with  their  socks  on.  That  was  making  him  strike,  lift-  off  or  no  lift-off.  He  wondered  what  it  was  like  for  a  bass.  How  some  lures  got  by  and  some  did  not.  For  him  it  was  pink  socks.  In  the  absence  of  pink  socks,  there  was  smoke  over  the  Fork  Swamp.  Mrs.  Schuping  looked  even  more  fire-lovely  than  she  had  at  the  first  fire.  This  time  she  saw  him  before  he  spoke.  &quot;'There  won't  be  a  problem  with  the  permit,&quot;  the  sheriff  said,  instead  of  the  idiocies  of  last  time.  There  was  no  problem  with  the  permit  because  there  was  no  permit,  but  he  thought  this  was  a  good  way  to  address  those  concerns  of  hers.  The  sheriff  had  lost  a  little  weight.  Mrs.  Schuping  had  been  on  intellectual  winnowing  excursions,  and  she  saw  as  a  matter  of  vector  analogy  the  trajecto-  ry  of  the  sheriff  toward  her  and  the  swale  of  her  sexual  self.  He  had  a  swag  or  a  sway-something-of  gut  that  suggested,  even  if  a  bit  cartoonishly,  a  lion.  This  big  fat  tub  could  get  on  top  of  her,  she  thought,  with  no  identifiable  emotion,  looking  at  the  crisp,  shriek-  ing,  blistering  fire  she  had  set  with  no more  ado  than  a  Bic  lighter  jammed  open  and  a  potshe  didn't  want  anymore  full  of  gasoline.  The  sheriff  took  a  slow  survey  of  the  fire,  which  was  magnificent,  and  loyal  -her  little  swamp  was  neatly  set  on  a  fork  of  creeks  so  that  the  fire  could  not  get  away-and  turning  back  he  caught  a  glance  of  Mrs.  Schuping's  profile  as  she  watched  the  fire  and,  he  thought,  him  a  little,  and  down  a  bit  he  saw  her  breasts,  rather  sticking  out  and  firm-  looking  in  the  dusky,  motley,  scrabbled  light.  Bound  up  in  a  sweater  and  what  looked  like  a  salmon-colored  bra,  through  the  swamp  smoke  stinging  your  eyes,  on  a  forty-year-old  woman  they  could  take  your  breath  away.  He  made  to  go.  &quot;Good  cool  fire,  Mizz  Shoop,&quot;  the  sheriff  said.  &quot;I've  got  to  go.&quot;  &quot;You're  leaving,  sheriff?&quot;  &quot;It's  business,  purely  business.&quot;  To  the  sheriff  she  seemed  relaxed,  legally,  and  there  is  nothing  like  a  big  Ford  pewhoocorn  exit-a  little  air,  a  little  air  and  a  little  time.  MRS.  Scnurpinc  had  been  through  every  consciousness  and  semi-  consciousness  and  unconsciousness  and  raised-  and  lowered-consciousness  pro-  gram  contributing  to  every  good  con-  science  and  bad  conscience  and  middle  struggling  conscience  there  is.  But  now  she  was  a  woman  in  a  house  so  falling  apart  that  the  children  had  taken  it  off  the  haunted  register,  and  she  was  boil-  " b"ing  an  egg  on  a  low  blue  flame.  Outside  were  the  large,  dark,  low-armed  oaks.  Also  outside,  beyond  the  oaks,  were  the  smoldering  ignoble  trees.  The  white,  acrid,  thin  smoke  drifting  up  their  charred  trunks  was  ugly.  The  swamp  had  powers  of  recovery  that  were  astounding,  though.  It  was  this  magical  resilience  that  confirmed  Mrs.  Schuping  as  an  avid  swamp  burner.  When  the  swamp  came  back  hairier  than  it  had  been  beforethe  burning,  thicker  and  nastier,  she  found  the  ar-  gument  for  necessary  periodic  burning,  which  was  of  course  a  principle  in  good  forestry.  She  was  not  a  pyromaniac,  she  was  a  land  steward.  T  he  trees  stood  out  there  fuming  and  hissing  and  steaming.  Her  life  continued  to  winnow.  Beyond  the  disassembly  of  her  opera  holdings,  Mrs.  Schuping  had  gradually  let  go  of  her  once  prodigious  reading.  She  had  read  in  all  topical  lay  matters.  She  had  taught  herself  calculus,  and  could  read  Scientific  American  without  skipping  the  math.  She  had  taught  herself  to  weldand  briefly  tried  to  sculpt  in  metal.  She  gave  this  up  after  discovering  that  all  she  wanted  to  sculpt,  ever,  was  a  metal  sphere,  and  she  could  not  do  it.  She  had  dallied  similarly  in  hydro-  ponics,  artificial  intelligence,  military  science,  and  dress  designing.  She  had  read  along  Great  Book  lines  and  found  them  mostly  a  yawn,  except  for  the  Great  Pornography  Books,  for  which  there  seemed  to  be  no  modern  equiva-  lent.  She  had  stopped  going  out  to  concerts  and  movies,  etc.,  which  she  had  done  specifically  to  improve  her-  self,  because  it  got  to  where  after  every  trip  on  the  long  drive  back  to  the  ruined  estate  she  wondered  what  was  so  damned  giver  about  improving  oneself.  The  oppositeidea  seemed  at  least  as  tenable.  As  her  tires  got  worse,  it  seemed  even  more  tenable,  and  she  began  to  embrace  the  idea  of  win-  nowing:  travel  less,  do  less,  itis  more.  She  found  a  grocery  that  still  delivered,  and  she  picked  up  her  box  of  groceries  on  the  front  porch-as  far  as  the  boys  would  go.  At  first  she  regrettedthe  winnowing,  but  then  she  did  not:  she  hadhad  a  mind,  but  nothing  had  properly  got  in  its  way.  That  happens.  The  same  for  bodies:  there  were  good  athletesin  this  world  who  had  never  had  the  right  field  or  the  right  ball  get  in  their  way.  It  was  particle  physics  when  you  got  down  to  it,  and  the  numbers  of  people  in  the  world  today  and  the  numbers  of  things  to  occupy  them  made  the  me-  chanics  of  successful  collision  difficult.  So  she'd  burn  her  swamp,  pat  her  good  trees,  cook  her  egg.  She  had  one  old  clock  radio,  a  G.E.  in  a  vanilla  plastic  cabinet  with  a  round  dial  for  a  tuner,  which  she  played  at  night.  If  there  were  storms  she  listened  to  the  static  of  lightning.  When  the  swamp  had  returned  in  its  briary  vitriolic  vengeance,  reminding  her  of  a  beard  coming  out  of  a  face  that  was  too  close  to  hers,  she  set  it  afire  a  fourth  time.  The  fire  went  taller  than  before,  so  she  walked  around  to  the  front  of  the  house  to  see  if  you  could  see  it  from  there  and,  if  you  could,  ifit  looked  like  the  house  was  on  fire,  and  there  was  the  sheriff,  parking  his  car.  He  rolled  down  the  window  and  said,  &quot;I've  got  you  two  puppies.&quot;  She  looked  in  at  the  front  seat  and  saw  that  he  did.  All  puppies  are  cute,  but  these  seemed  abnormally  cute.  She  discarded,  immediately,  protest.  She  was  not  go-  ing  to  be  the  sort,  no  matter  how  holed  up  and  eccentric,  to  refuse  a  dog  be-  cause  of  the  responsibility  and  other  nonsense.  &quot;What  kind  are  they?&quot;  &quot;The  kind  dogfighters  give  me  just before  they  have  themselves  a  conven-  tion.&quot;  The  sheriff  opened  the  door  and  let  the  puppies  out  and  got  out  himself.  They  all  walked  back  to  the  fire.  At  one  pointthe  sheriff  misjudged  the  ground  and  veered  sharply  into  Mrs.  Schuping  and  nearly  knocked  her  down.  He  was  so  big  and  tight  that  he  felt  like  the  oak  walls  of  the  ships  that  flung  cannonballs  back,  which  Mrs.  Schuping  did  not  know  had  made  her  trees,  under  which  they  now  walked,  attractive  to  a  shipbuilder  two  hundred  years  before.  The  fire  was  a  good  one.  There  was  a  screaming,  out  of  human  register,  as  oxygen  and  carbon  clawed  each  other  to  pieces,  going  through  peat  and  leaf  and  the  dirt  that  somehow  stayed  up  in  the  leaves,  even  when  it  rained,  giving  the  swamp  its  dusty  look  that  would  never  beright  for  National  Geograph-  ic.  The  dirt  in  the  trees  presumably  turned  to  glass,  and  maybe  that  was  why,  Mrs.  Schuping  thought,  the  fire  always  sounded  like  things  breaking.  Tiny  things  breaking,  a  big  fiery  bull  in  the  shop.  Without  an  inkling  of  premedita-  tion,  she  turned  to  the  sheriff,  who  was  breathing  and  creaking  there  in  stan-  dard  fashion,  and  balled  her  fist,  and  very  slowly  brought  it  to  his  stomach  and  ground  it  mock-menacingly  into  him  asfar  as  it  would  go,  which  was  about  an  inch.  At  this  the  sheriff  put  his  hand  on  the  back  of  her  neck  and  did  not  look  from  the  fire.  They  re-  garded  the  fire  in  that  attitude,  and  the  puppies  romped,  and  in  the  strange  " b"orange  light  they  all  looked  posed  for  a  family  portrait  at  a  discount  department  store.  BEFORE  going  into  the  house,  the  sheriff  knocked  the  mud  offhis  boots,  then  decided  that  would  not  do  and  took  his  boots  off  and  left  them  out-  side  the  backdoor  on  the  porch.  Mrs.  Schuping  put  two  eggs  on  to  boil.  The  sheriff,  who  she  thought  might  go  three  hundred  pounds,  should  not  eat  an  egg,  she  knew,  but  it  was  what  you  ate  after  a  swamp  fire-boiled  hard,  halved,  heavy  salt  and  pepper,  and  tasting  somehow  of  smoke  -and  it  was  all  shehad,  anyway.  They  peeled  the  eggs  at  the  metal  table  and  put  the  shells  in  the  aluminum  pot  the  eggs  had  cooked  in.  Mrs.  Schuping  peeled  hers  neatly,  no  more  than  four  pieces  of  shell,  but  the  sher-  iff  rolled  his  on  the  table  under  his  palm  until  it  was  a  fine  mosaic.  He  rubbed  the  tiny  bits  of  shell  off  with  his  thumb.  HEN  the  sheriff  came  out  of  the  bathroom  and  stood  by  the  bed,  Mrs.  Schuping  became  frightened  be-  yond  the  normal,  understandable  ap-  prehensions  a  woman  can  have  before  going  to  bed  with  a  new  man,  especially  the  largest  one  it  is  conceivable  to  go  to  bed  with.  She  also  had  a  concern  for  the  bed  itself,  and  even  for  the  struc-  tural  capacity  of  the  house-but  that  was  hysterical;  the  sheriff  was  safely  upstairs,  and  no  matter  what  he  did  he  would  not  get  any  heavier.  Something  else  frightened  her.  It  was  as  if  a  third  party  were  in  the  room,  a  kind  of  silent  presence,  and  then  she  realized  what  it  was.  The  sheriff,  naked,  without  his  creaking  leather,  was  quiet  for  the  first  time,  a  soundless  man.  It  gave  her  goose  bumps.  &quot;Get  in.&quot;  Mrs.  Schuping  decided  it  was  best  to  trust  a  man  this  large  in  the  execution  of  his  own  desire,  and  let  him  near-  smother  her.  He  made  a  way  for  air  for  her  over  one  of  his  shoulders  and  began  what  he  was  about,  which  seemed  to  be  an  altogether  private  program  at  first  but  then  got  better,  until  she  could  tell  that  the  sheriff  was  not  simply  a  loco-  motive  on  his  own  track,  and  things  got  evenly  communal,  traces  of  smoky  fire  in  the  room,  but  enough  air.  Mrs.  Schuping  thought  of  winnowing  and  sailing  records  and  her  mother  and  of  how  long  a  gizzard  has  to  cook  to  be  tender,  how  much  longer  than  a  liver,  and  she  lost  track  until  she  heard  the  sheriff  breathing,  about  to  die  like  a  catfish  on  ahot  sidewalk,  and  stop.  &quot;Mizz  Shoop,&quot;  the  sheriff  said,  when  he  could  talk,  &quot;this  is  my  philos-  ophy  of  life  and  it  proves  it.  Almost  everything  can  happen.  Yingyang.&quot;  &quot;What  would  be  an  example,  sheriff?&quot;  &quot;Well-this,&quot;  he  said,  his  arms  arc-  ing  in  the  space  over  them  and  reballasting  the  bed.  &quot;And  did  you  hear  about  them  boys  killed  that  girl  for  p-  Excuse  me.  For  sex?&quot;  The  sheriff  then  related  the  details  of  a  rape  case  he  had  worked  on.  It  was  not  the  sort  of  talk  she  expected  to  followa  First  Time,  butshe  let  him  go on  and  found  that  shedid  not  mind  it.  The  sheriff  had  set  in  motion  the  pat-  tern  of  rude  and  somewhat  random  speech  that  would  follow  their  love-  making  in  the  high  springy  bed  under  the  ripped  ceiling.  You  would  be  al-  lowed  to  say  whatever  was  on  your  mind  without  regard  to  etiquette  or  setting.  Once,  it  embarrassed  her  to  recall,  she  declaimed  apropos  of  noth-  ing  while  they  were  still  breathless,  &quot;Listen.  I  have  a  father  and  a  mother.  I'm  a  real  person.&quot;  To  this  the  sheriff  firmly  rejoined,  &quot;I  think  the  whole  goddam  country  has  lost  its  fucking  mind.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  doubt  it,&quot;  Mrs.  Schuping  said.  They  could  talk  like  this  for  hours,  their  meanings  rarely  intersecting.  The  last  thing  the  sheriff  said  before  leaving  that  first  night  was  &quot;Fifty  pounds  in  the  morning.  They'll  be  all  right  under  the  porch.&quot;  Mrs.  Schuping  slept  well,  wondering  fifty  pounds  of  what  under  the  house  before  she  drifted  off.  The  sheriff  had  initiated  a  pattern  with  this  remark,  too,  butshedidnot  know  it.  She  would  find  that  the  sheriff  " b"was  given  to  talking  about  things  that  he  did  not  bother  to  preface  or  explain,  and  that  she  preferred  not  asking  what  the  hell  he  was  talking  about.  W  hatev-  er  the  hell  he  was  talking  about  would  become  apparent,  and  so  far  the  sheriff  had  delivered  no  unwanted  surprises.  She  saw  just  about  what  she  was  getting.  In  the  river  of  her  winnowing  life,  the  sheriff  represented  a  big  boulder  in  the  bed  of  the  dwindling  stream.  It  eventually  would  be  eroded  from  un-  derneath  and  would  settle  and  maybe  sink  altogether.  Mrs.  Schuping,  there-  fore,  did  not  find  the  facts  of  her  ag-  gressively  winnowing  life  and  the  sol-  id,  vigorous  mass  of  her  new  man  to  be  in  conflict  at  all.  She  had  never  known  a  man  so  natu-  rally  unrefined.  Despite  his  bulk,  the  sheriff  gave  her  a  good  feeling.  That  was  as  specific  as  she  could  be  about  it.  He  gives  me  a  good  feeling,  she  thought,  marvelling  at  the  suspicious  simplicity  of  the  sentiment.  She  had  a  dream  of  going  into  the  swamp  and  finding  heropera  records  unharmed  and  retrieving  them  and  playing  them  for  the  sheriff,  who,  as  his  appreciation  of  them  increased,  be-  gan  to  dance  with  her  in  a  ballroom  that  somehow  appeared  in  her  house,  the  operas  having  be-  come  waltzes,  and  be-  gan  to  lose  weight,  becoming  as  slender  as  a  bullfighter;  then,  in  the  swamp  again,  she  found  the  records  hung  in  the  trees  and  melted  into  long,  twisted  shapes  that  suggested,  of  all  things,  the  severely  herniated  intestines  of  a  chimpanzee  she  had  once  seen  in  a  cheap  roadside  wild-  animal  attraction.  She  woke  up  glad  to  wake  up.  She  would  look  for  no  records  and  wish  no  diet  upon  the  sheriff.  &quot;Have  my  head  examined,&quot;  she  JC  muttered,  getting  out ofbed.  |  In  a  very  vague  way  Mrs.  Schuping  had  decided-before  the  decisions  and  lack  of  decisions  that  set  her  life  on  its  course  of  winnowing-that  having  her  head  examined  was  going  to  be  the  certain  price  if  shedidnot  begin  to  clear  a  few,  or  many,  thingsout  of  it.  She  saw  at  the  end  oftheoriesof  con-  sciousness  and  lay  physics  and  broad  familiarity  with  things  topical  and  pop-  ular  a  wreck  of  the  mind,  her  mind,  on  the  rocks  of  pointless  business  and  in-  formation.  None  of  that  knowledge,  good  or  bad,  simple  or  sophisticated,  was  ever  going  to  allow  her  to  do  anything  except  more  of  it:  drive  an-  other  eighty  miles  to  another  touring  concert  or  exhibition,  read  another  ar-  ticle  on  the  mating  dynamics  of  the  American  anole.  She  decided  that  a  green  lizard  doing  pushups  with  his  little  red  centerboard  coming  out  ofhis  throat  was  one  thing,  but  if  she  reed  about  it  anymore,  saw  any  more  stylized  drawings  of  &quot;disten-  sible  throat  flaps&quot;  on  vectors  heading  for  each  other  like  units  in  a  war  game,  she  was  going  to  be  in  trouble.  This  was  a  petty,  flighty  kind  of  fed-upness  to  reach,  and  not  carefully  thought  out,  she  knew,  but  shedid  not  care.  If  you  looked  carefully  at  bee  No.  W-128,  who  was  vibrating  at  such  and  such  a  frequency,  wagging  his  butt  at  42\xc2\xb0  on  the  compass  .  ..  God.  Of  all  her  pre-      winnowing  interests,  this  arcane  sci-  ence  was  her  favorite,  yet,  oddly  enough,  it  was  the  first  to  go.  It  had  looked  insupportable  in  a  way  that,  say,  Time  had  not.  Yet  over  the  years  she  had  decided,  once  Time  etc.  had  also  been  abandoned,  that  the  lizards  and  bees  and  flow  mechanics  were  support-  able  in  the  extreme  by  comparison-as  were  the  weirdly  eclectic  opera  records  more  justified  than  the  morning  classi-  cal-music  shows  on  public  radio-but  once  she  had  opted  for  winnowing  there  was  no  pulling  back.  &quot;I'm  going  beyond  W  alden,&quot;  she  told  herself,  and  soon  thereafter  began  eying  the  clut-  tered  swamp,  which  was  not  simple  enough.  So  she  winnowed  to  prevent  having  her  head  examined.  If  it  were  to  be,  she  wanted  them  to  find  nothing  in  it.  She  knew  enough  about  the  process.  Her  motherhad  had  her  head  examined,  many  times.  Mrs.  Schuping  did  not  like  her  mother,  so  that  was  all  she  needed  to  know  about  having  your  head  exam-  ined.  Not  for  her.  She  looked  out  the  window  that  morning  and  saw  a  man  with  a  white  stripe  down  each  pant  leg  walk  away  from  the  house  and  get  in  a  yellow  truck,  which  then  drove  of.  When  she  investigated  she  found  a  fifty-pound  sack  of  dog  food  on  the  porch  and  the  two  puppies  scratching  at  it  very  fast,  as  if  they  would  dig  in  spoon-  fulsto  4368696e61.  FTER  their  first  night  together,  the  sheriff  arrived  with-  out  Mrs.  Schuping's  having  to  set  the  swamp  on  fire.  The  sheriff  had  estab-  lished  the  two  things  he  would  do  for  or  to  Mrs.  Schuping.  One  was  talk  trash  in  bed  and  the  other  was  supplyher  with  goods  and  services  that  came  through  his  connections  as  sher-  iff.  After  the  dog  food,  which  had  be-  longed  to  the  county  police  dogs  until  her  puppies  got  it,  a  crew  of  prisoners  showed  " b"up  one  morning  and  painted  the  entire  porch,  which  surrounded  her  house,  with  yellow  road  paint,  giving  the  house  the  look  of  a  cornball  flying  saucer  about  to  take  off.  The  sheriff  appeared  that  night-the  fluorescent  paint  more  than  ever  inspectable  then  -beaming  with  pride.  He  did  not  re-  mark  upon  it  directly  or  ask  Mrs.  Schuping  how  she  liked  it,  but  from  his  face,  which  in  its  pride  nearly  par-  took  of  the  same  yellow  glow,  it  was  obvious  that  he  was  sure  she  liked  her  hideous  new  paint  job.  She  could  not  deny  it.  She  had  watched  the  crew  from  a  lawn  chair,  drinking  coffee  while  they  changed  her  haunted-looking,  unpainted,  unannounced  house  into  something  like  ballpark  mustard  with  mica  in  it,  and  never  asked  them  what  they  thought  they  were  doing.  Nor  had  sheasked  the  man  with  the  shotgun  what  he  was  doing.  And  now  it  did  not  seem  proper  to  ask  the  sheriff.  The  dog  food  was  done,  the  porch  under  which  the  puppies  were  to  live  was  done,  and  something  else  would  be  done,  and  it  was  in  the  spirit  of  winnowing  to  let  it  be  done.  But  in  bed  that  night,  before  they  got  to  the  sheriff's  spontaneous  trash  talk-  ing,  she  did  let  out  one  question.  &quot;Listen,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Isn't  this,  pris-  oners  and  ...&quot;  She  made  a  kind  of  scalloping  motion  with  her  hand  in  the  air,  where  he  could  see  it.  &quot;I  appreciate  it,  but  isn't  it  ...  greft  or  something?&quot;  The  sheriff  took  a  deep  breath  as  if  impatient,  but  she  already  knew  he  would  not,  if  he  were  impatient,  show  it;  he  was  a  manwho  could  talk  about  rape  in  bed,  but  in  other  important  ways  he  was  a  gentleman.  He  was  breathing  to  compose.  &quot;If  you  see  something  I  have,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;there  is  something  behind  it  I  have  given.&quot;  He  breathed  for  a  while.  &quot;Law  is  a  series  of  deals,&quot;  he  said  next,  &quot;and  so  is  law  enforcement.&quot;  More  breathing.  &quot;Nobody  in  law  en-  forcement,  unlike  lew,  makes  money  near  what  the  time  goes  into  it.&quot;  They  looked  at  the  ceiling.  &quot;If  you  don't  do  Wall  Street,  this  is  how  you  do  it.&quot;  A  deep  sigh.  'T  hat  dogfighter  I  got  your  puppies  from  made  fifteen  thousand  dollars  the  next  week  in  one  kowr,  and  I  let  him  do  it,  and  I  did  not  take  a  dime.  You  have  two  good  dogs  he  would  have  knocked  in  the  head.&quot;  Mrs.  Schuping  was  sorry  she  had  asked  and  never  did  again.  But  if  she  saw  the  sheriff  studying  something  about  theplace  she  might  attempt  to  steer  him  off.  He  seemed  to  look  askance  at  her  mixed  and  beat-up  pots  and  pans  one  night,  and,  fearful  that  he  would  strip  the  county-prison  kitchen  of  its  commercial  cookware-perhaps  inspired  by  the  odd  presence  of  her  commercial  toaster-and  stuff  it  all  in-  tohers,  she  informed  him  casuallythat  broken-in  pots  were  a  joy  to  handle.  She  missed  his  citingfor  the  deck  and  the  boardwalk  into  the  swamp,  howev-  er.  The  one  clue,  mumbled  in  his  sleep,  &quot;Ground  Wolmanized,  that'll  be  hard,&quot;  she  did  not  know  how  to  inter-  pret  until  the  ground-contact-rated,  pressure-treated  posts  were  being  put  in  the  yardbehind  her  house  andon  back  into  the  swamp  by  black  fellows  with  posthole  diggers  and  the  largest,  shini-  est,  knottiest,  most  gruesome  and  hand-  some  arms  she  had  ever  seen.  She  watched  them,  as  she  had  watched  the  housepainters,  this  time  putting  brandy  in  her  coffee-some-  thing  she  had  tried  once  before  and  not  liked  the  taste  of.  Sitting  there  drinking  spiked  coffee,  she  felt  herself  becoming  a  character  in  the  gravitational  pull  of  the  sheriff  despite,  she  realized,  efforts  nearly  all  her  life  not  to  become  a  character-except  for  calling  herself  Mrs.  Schuping.  The  boardwalk  through  the  thinned  swamp  looked  miraculous,  as  if  the  burning  had  been  a  plan  of  architectur-  al  landscaping.  The  handsome,  lean  swamp,  the  walk  suggesting  a  minia-  ture  railroad  trestle  going  out  into  it,  resembled  apark.  If  you  winnowed  and  got  down  pretty  clean  and  were  nor-  mal,  she  thought,  and  something  hap-  pened-like  a  big-bubba  sheriff  and  thousands  of  dollars  of  windfall  con-  tracting  and  a  completely  different  kind  of  life  than  you  had  had-and  you  started  becoming  a  character,  andyou  paid  nothing  for  it  and  did  not  scheme  for  it,  and  it  reversed  your  winnowing,  andyou  liked  brandy  suddenly,  at  least  in  coffee,  while  watching  men  who  put  classical  sculpture  to  shame,  was  it  your  fault? "