 b"WITH  the  sun  in  her  eyes,  Mia  V  v  can't  see  her  father-in-law  as  he  talks,  but  she  can  see  the  rim  of  his  hat,  which  cuts  into  the  clear  blue  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  sky  like  a  rusted  metal  disk.  Mr.  H.-this  is  what  Mia  and  her  sister-in-law  Nancy  have  al-  ways  called  him-is  a  long,  angular  man,  taller  than  her  own  father,  who  hadn't  worn  hats,  and  taller,  atthis  angle,  than  the  sun.  He  stops  in  front  of  Mia,  and  she  stares  as  fine,  gleaming  desert  dust  rises  and  falls  on  his  brown  wing-tip  shoes.  She  shades  her  eyes,  but  still  she  cannot  make  out  his  features,  which  have  been  worked  hard  lately.  His  mother  has  just  died  in  the  only  hospital  around  formiles.  The  family  have  flown  in  from  various  parts  of  the  country,  and  have  been  staying  at  her  house.  After  seeing  Mr.  H.  in  his  own  vast  Greenwich  living  room,  hislofty  Aspen  ski  house,  there  is  something  touching  about  seeing  him-a  Texan  turned  Wall  Street  banker  who  collects  Remington  bronzes-here  in  his  moth-  er's  small  house,  in  rooms  with  flow-  ered  wallpaper,  and  candy  dishes,  not  sculptures,  on  the  tabletops.  Mia  steps  off  the  cracked  cemetery  sidewalk  after  her  husband,  Paul,  and  her  father-in-  law.  The  funeral  is  in  two  days,  and  they  have  come  to  find  the  grave  site.  Her  eyes  fall  on  a  faucet,  bentover  dry  dirtlike  a  thirsty  bird.  Mr.  H.  looks  around  him.  &quot;Don't  know  why  there  areso  many  spigots  when  no  one  bothers  to  water  this  place.  Jigaboos  don't;  I  reck-  on  they  figure  long  as  they  can't  be  buried  here,  why  should  they.&quot;  He  says  this  with  no  change  in  his  voice,  and  Mia  flinches,  although  she  is  not  sure  why  hearing  his  bigotry  in  the  place  where  it  originated,  where  it  is  part  of  accepted  thinking,  should  be  more  horrifying  than  hearing  it  any-  where  else.  She  says  nothing,  but  drops  behind.  She  wonders  if  they  will  expect  her,  her  children,  to  beburied  in  this  place.  If  Nancy  were  here,  they  would  joke  about  it.  Paul's  brother  Brian  and  Nancy  are  separating,  and  thinking  about  this  makes  Mia  sad.  &quot;Come  on,&quot;  Paul  says,  suddenly  be-  side  her.  &quot;I  think  they've  found  it.&quot;  He  takes  her  hand  and,  following  him,  she  decides  the  haircut  she  gave  him  before     they  left  [REDACTED]  isn't  bad.  His  curly  hair  is  the  darkest  color  on  the  desert.  Has  he  ever  thought  of  being  buried  here  himself?  Mia  pictures  the  ceme-  tery  where  her  father  is  buried,  in  upstate  New  York,  which  is  protected  by  scrolled  iron  grills,  black  and  tall,  and  a  gatehouse,  where  someone  sits.  Mia  wouldn't  mind  eating  her  lunch  there,  where  caretakers  keep  the  grass  very  green,  and  rake  up  the  confettilike  petals  of  whatever  is  in  season.  Or  in  the  place  where  her  mother  is,  that  quaint  church  with  walls  around  it,  here  and  there  huge  trees  shading  the  gravestones,  in  [REDACTED].  Hopping  over  a  grave,  Paul's  brother  reads  her  mind.  &quot;We'll  find  you  a  nice  spot  in  the  shade,&quot;  he  says,  smiling.  Brian  stands  close  to  Mia;  he  is  stocky  and  blond,  and  she  remembers  that  Nancy,  wearing  heels,  was  taller.  Mr.  H.  points  here,  then  there.  He  is  trying  to  decide  whether  his  uncle's  gravestone  has  slipped  to  the  right,  and,  if  it  has,  whether  it  matters.  His  hat  is  off  now.  The  family  names  stare  up  at  Mia  in  granite.  All  curves  and  sharp  edges,  they  sparkle.  ERHAPS  because  Brian  knew  of  his  parents'  fondness  for  Nancy,  he  wasn't  going  to  say  anything  about  the  breakup  when  he  stepped  off  the  little  plane  yesterday.  This  call  was  so  sud-  den,  he  explained;  Nancy  just  couldn't  pull  it  together  to  get  here.  \xc2\xab&quot;What  do  you  mean,  'pull  it  togeth-  er'?&quot;  his  mother,  Ruth,  asked  later,  over  dinner  at  the  club.  (Neither  of  her  sons  had  children;  what  was  there  to  pull  together?)  When  Brian  didn't  answer,  Ruth  continued,  &quot;Because  I  need  to  know  what  furniture  you-all  want  from  the  house.  We've  got  to  make  arrangements  for-&quot;  &quot;I'm  getting  a  divorce,&quot;  Brian  said.  &quot;The  last  thing  I  need  is  more  furni-  ture.&quot;  &quot;Brian,  no!&quot;  Ruth  burst  out.  She  jarnmed  her  cigarette  into  the  glass  ashtray.  Then,  big-boned  and  proper,  sheplaceda  hand  on  her  broad,  silk-  draped  chest  and  translated,  &quot;You-all  are  having  some  problems  right  now,  and  you  need  to  work  things  out.&quot;  The.  huge  bow  at  her  throat  looked  comical.  &quot;Well,  if  that's  what  you  want  to think.&quot;  Brian  shrugged.  &quot;Our  lawyers  have  met  twice,  but  if  that's  what  you  want  to  think.&quot;  &quot;I  think  we'll  talk  about  this  later,&quot;  Mr.  H.  said,  and  ordered  another  whis-  key.  Brian  continued  to  eat  his  steak  even  with  his  mother's  fingers  curled  around  his  elbow,  which,  after  she  squeezed,  she  told  him  to  take  off  the  table.  Later,  Paul  told  Mia  the  story:  Brian  had  been  having  an  affair  and  Nancy  had  found  out.  Overcome  by  an  image  of  Nancy  deceived  and  angry,  Mia  could  barely  hear  his  account.  &quot;I  wish  I  could  talk  to  her,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  mean  I  hope  she  knows  she  can  talk  to  me.&quot;  N  the  master  bedroom,  Ruth  an-  nounces  that  she  will  throw  away  all  her  mother-in-law's  shoes.  &quot;Don't  you  think,&quot;  she  says  to  Mia.  Mia  agrees,  but  doesn't  know  why  Ruth  discards  a  full  bottle  of  aspirin  and  an  unopened  jar  of  hand  lotion.  Emery  boards  still  in  the  package,  baby  powder,  nail  scissors,  all  land  in  the  wastebasket.  [REDACTED]  bottles  she  pitches  after  reading  the  prescriptions.  Lip-  sticks,  deodorant;  and  then  Ruth  half  throws,  half  places  a  nearly  full  bottle  of  Chanel  No.  5  in  the  wastebasket  on  top  of  the  other  things.  Mia  must  stop  herself  from  reaching  for  it.  She  feels  no  connection,  really,  between  theold  woman  they  visited  in  the  hospital  and  all  these  things.  Except  for  Ruth,  no  one  quite  knows  what  to  do  in  the  house.  Their  hostess  is  not  there,  and  the  men,  especially,  seem  to  be  at  loose  ends.  &quot;Maybe  I'll  take  the  car  into  town,&quot;  Brian  says  after  lunch.  &quot;See  if  I  can  memorize  Main  Street.&quot;  He  is  standing  in  the  doorway  of  the  guest  bedroom.  Paul  is  lying  on  the  bed,  and  Mia  is  refolding  clothes.  She  fig-  ures  that  Mr.  H.  is  not  the  kind  of  man  who  would  tolerate  panty  hose  hanging  in  the  shower,  and  she  stuffs  a  dirty  pair  into  the  pocket  of  her  suitcase.  She  had  not  known  how  to  pack  for  this  trip,  and  since  they  go  to  the  same  restaurant  every  night-something  about  buying  a  membership,  in  [REDACTED]-she  is  run-  ning  out  ofclothes.  She  says,  &quot;I  think  your  mother  men-  tioned  going  to  the  museum  at  the  Fort.&quot;  &quot;Right,&quot;  Brian  says.  &quot;You-all  are  going  to  the  museum  so  I  can  have  that  " b"sobering  talk  with  my  father.  Right.&quot;  HEN  an  animal  ran  in  front  of  thecarthe  night  Mia  and  Paul  arrived,  she  felt  a  release  of  tension  she  had  not  known  was  there.  Be-  cause  while  the  shafts  from  the  beak-shaped  street  lights  in-  truded  into  the  dark  car  she  had  stared  at  flaws-a  hole  in  Paul's  sweater,  the  scar  on  his  hand-as  she  strained  to  hear  what  his  parents  were  saying.  The  ease  and  squeaks  of  an  old  car,  the  smell.  If  either  parent  in  the  front  seat  of  the  old  Chrysler  had  been  her  own,  Mia  would  have  known  right  away  where  matters  stood.  But  it  wasn't  until  Ruth  said  'Your  grandmother  would  come  out  for  ribs  with  us  if  they'd  let  her&quot;  that  Mia  knew  they'd  come  in  time-her  hus-  band's  grandmother  was  still  alive.  Somehow,  she  had  felt  responsible  for  getting  Paul  here.  Brian  had  been  too  late.  Mia  had  met  Paul's  grand-  mother  just  once  before  seeing  her  in  the  hospital.  It  had  been  at  Mia  and  Paul's  wedding,  three  years  earlier,  when  the  old  woman  had  winked  at  her  over  her  highball  and  said,  &quot;What  I  always  say:  make  the  first  one  strong  and  then  just  coast.&quot;  The  woman's  nightgowns  are  still  hanging  out  on  the  clothesline.  Even  after  the  call  came  from  the  hospital,  Ruth  washed  out  another  one,  or  start-  ed  to,  and  then  there  was  nothing  left  to  do  but  hang  it  out  with  the  others  to  dry.  Now,  at  night,  the  clothesline  bisects  the  moon  and  the  pastel  flannel  nightgowns  blow,  forgotten.  Mr.  H.  and  Ruth  have  retired,  and  Mia  and  Paul  and  Brian  are  sitting  on  the  slick  floor  in  the  dining  area,  passing  around  a  joint.  Brian  is  talking  about  the  apart-  ment  he's  moved  to,  and  Mia  is  staring  at  a  triangle  of  moonlight,  wishing  he  would  stop.  Before  he  arrived,  shehad  looked  out  at  prairies  that  made  her  eyelids  flutter,  at  sun  shining  on  houses  she  didn't  know,  and  thought,  At  least  Nancy  is  coming.  She  had  counted  on  her  sister-in-law  as  she  might  count  on  a  distant  cousin  for  relief  at  a  dreaded  family  picnic.  Now,  in  some  ways,  she  feels  more  alone  than  if  it  were  Paul  who  was  not  here.  Brian  is  talking  about  Nancy-&quot;She'll  be  fine,&quot;  he  says  -and  suddenly  Mia  can't  stand  it  any-  more;  she  opens  the  sliding  glass  doors  and  runs  out  into  the  dark  yard.  The  nightgowns-one  pink,  one  blue-are  in  the  same  style:  rosebuds  at  the  neck,  smocking.  She  unclips  them,  and  starts  back  to  thehouse.  A  dog  barks.  The  air  feels  good.  The  nightgowns  are  new,  and  she  knows  that  Ruth  will  throw  them  away.  &quot;Okay?&quot;  Paul  says,  rubbing  her  back  as  she  resumes  her  place  beside  him.  She  nods,  and  he  pulls  her  closer.  He  asks  her  to  get  out  thepostcards  that  she  bought  at  the  Fort  earlier.  He  tells  Brian,  &quot;'They  even  documented  a  fam-  ily  that  was  scalped  and  killed  by  Indi-  ans.  The  daughter  escaped,  though.&quot;  Mia  locates  her  purse,  and  hands  Brian  postcards  of  a  spinning  wheel,  a  chair  draped  with  quilts,  and  one  of  a  mannequin  dressed  for  the  [REDACTED]  com-  memoration  of  1957.  &quot;Our  heritage,&quot;  Brian  says.  He  is  stoned.  &quot;Wow.&quot;  Mia  reminds  him  that  it  might  have  been  the  whites  who  taught  the  Indians  about  scalping,  but  he  either  doesn't  hear  her  or  doesn't  register.  &quot;Was  it  a  big  fort,  or  what?&quot; he  says.  &quot;I  mean,  you  know.  Was  it  real?&quot;  &quot;Of  course  it  was  real,&quot;  Mia  says.  She  is  still  standing.  &quot;'This  mannequin  is  in  a  glass  [REDACTED];  he  says,  shaking  his  head.  &quot;Well,  lots  of  things  are  in  cases,&quot;  Mia  says.  &quot;Guns  and  farm  tools  and  clothes.  Letters.  Haven't  you  ever  been  to  a  museum?&quot;  She  touches  Paul's  head.  &quot;I'm  going  to  bed.  But  you  stay.&quot;  &quot;Wait,&quot;  Brian  says.  Mia  turns.  Without  Nancy,  she  and  Brian  have  nothing  to  say  to  each  other.  He  looks  up  at  her,  then  down  at  the  postcard.  &quot;Did  you  say  someone  could  be  scalped  without  being  killed?&quot;  ROUD  of  their  museum,  the  guides  hovered.  Dressed  in  period  costume,  they  wore  too  much  makeup,  and  Mia  noticed  that  one  wore  nail  polish.  But  when,  upon  leaving,  Mia  glanced  back,  she  saw  one  of  them  remove  her  bonnet  and  shake  her  hair  free  and  through  those  tiny  paned  windows  at  that  distance  at  dusk,  it  could  have  been  a  long  time  ago.  Mia  falls  asleep  remembering  this,  so  she  dreams  about  it.  She  dreams  ofliving  " b"there.  Brian,  not  Paul,  stands  by  the  big  open  fireplace,  and  there  is  a  little  girl  who  complains  of  being  cold.  Brian,  suddenly  angered  by  her  whining,  heaves  kerosene  at  the  fire,  which  leaps  out  like  liquid,  searing  skin  from  his  arm.  Mia  screams,  and  the  little  girl  cries  out  and  runs  in  circles  around  the  stone  room,  spinning  the  spinning  wheel  each  time  she  passes  it.  Not  until  her  bonnet  flies  off  do  they  realize  with  horror  that  (the  senselessness  of  dreams)  the  fire  has  burned  away  her  hair.  Mia  wakes  with  wet  eyes,  and  Paul  has  taken  all  the  covers.  &quot;|  ONT  forget  to  get  you-all  some  beer!&quot;  Ruth  calls  out  to  the  men,  who  are  going  to  see  about  fixing  the  air-conditioner  in  the  Chrysler,  an  errand  which,  when  they  discussed  it  that  morning,  seemed  at  least  as  impor-  tant  as  stopping  by  the  funeral  home  on  the  way  back.  &quot;Now,&quot;  Ruth  says,  clasping  her  hands  together.  She  is  wearing  a  blue  wool  skirt  and  a  sweater  of  a  lighter  shade,  and  low  heels  that  click  into  the  kitchen,  which  she  and  Mia  have  started  to  clean.  Ruth  has  shown  Mia  an  exer-  cise  for  stomach  muscles  which  you  can  do  anywhere:  you  just  have  to  remem-  ber;  you  can  do  it  in  the  checkout  line  or  while  folding  laundry  or  while  doing  dishes.  Mia  wonders  if  Ruth  thinks  she  has  got  fat.  The  things  in  the  re-  frigerator  take  away  her  appetite;  fruit-  cake  in  cellophane,  rotten  vegetables,  moldy  bread.  A  bowl  covered  with  tinfoil,  which  she  leaves  covered.  Why  hadn't  they  done  this  before?  'They  didn't  have  to  wait  until  the  old  wo-  man  died  to  clean  out  her  refrigerator.  &quot;Look  there,&quot;  Ruth  says.  She  has  moved  to  the  desk  in  the  dining-room  area,  and  the  picture  she  holds  is  of  Paul  at  about  age  three.  He  runs  from  the  camera,  making  a  face.  The  photo-  graph  is  characteristic  of  the  fifties:  black-and-white  with  rippled  edges.  The  one  visiting  hour  Mia  spent  at  the  hospital,  Paul's  grandmother  sat  straight  up  in  bed  and  stared  at  photo-  graphs.  She  called  them  snapshots.  Re-  fusing  to  submit  to  memory  lapses,  she  summoned  the  most  superfluous  details;  dresses  and  haircuts,  even  why  someone  was  missing  from  a  particular  picture.  &quot;Reckon  he  was  at  the  Academy  by  then.  Or  was  he  fixing  to  marry  that  girl?  He  ever  marry  her?  What  was  her  name?&quot;  Many  of  the  people  were  dead,   but  she  had  to  know  whose  back  yard  she  was  looking  at.  The  photograph  Ruth  hands  Mia  now  makes  her  laugh;  Paul  watches  the  daring  little  Brian  reaching  into  the  cookie  jar.  Mia  smiles.  &quot;Classic,&quot;  she  says.  She  holds  the  photo  out  to  Ruth,  who  looks  at  her  in  a  detached  way.  &quot;Has  Brian  said  anything  to  you?&quot;  she  asks.  &quot;No,&quot;  Mia  answers.  She  doesn't  know  what  to  say.  &quot;It  doesn't  seem  like  they're  going  to  change  their  minds.  I  mean,  I  think  maybe  he  still  loves  Nancy-&quot;  Ruth  simply  looks  at  her;  this  was  not  what  she  wanted  to  hear.  \xe2\x80\x9cI  S  it  late?  I'm  hungry,&quot;  Mia  says.  Paul  has  wakened  her  from  a  nap,  and  she  shivers,  not  really  awake  yet,  cold.  He  says  it's  raining,  and  rubs  her  arms.  A  radio  plays  far  off.  She  tells  him  they  cleaned  the  kitchen.  She  says,  &quot;It's  hard  to  know  what  to  offer  to  do  and  what  to  just  do.&quot;  Paul  stands,  leans  back  against  the  low  dresser,  his  broad  back  reflected  in  the  mirror  Mia  is  too  shy  to  claim  for  their  [REDACTED]  apartment.  He  picks  up  an  ornate  china  bell  and  shakes  it.  He sets  it  down.  &quot;It's  the  little  things,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Really.&quot;  He  crosses  his  arms.  Shifting  his  weight,  he  crumples  the  doily  on  the  dresser  top.  &quot;Brian's  gone.  I  put  him  on  a  plane.&quot;  [REDACTED].  H.  pulls  out  his  glasses  and  looks  at  the  menu.  He  closes  it.  &quot;I  assume  we  all  want  steaks,&quot;  he  says.  They  are  seated  at  the  same  table  as  on  other  nights,  and  as  usual  Mia  offers  to  get  him  his  salad  from  the  salad  bar.  When  she  and  Paul  return,  the  subject  of  Brian  has  resurfaced.  Mr.  H.  is  furious.  &quot;That  boy  plain  doesn't  know  what  matters,&quot;  he  said  when  he  found  his  son  had  left.  Apparently,  he  has  tried  to  call  him,  up  in  [REDACTED],  but  there  is  no  answer.  The  first  time  he  tried,  he  dialled  theold  number  by  mistake  and  got  Nancy.  &quot;Habit,  I  reckon,&quot;  he  says,  seizing  his  drink.  &quot;Well,  what  did  she  say?&quot;  Mia  asks.  Mr.  H.  sets  his  whiskey  down.  &quot;Say?  Why,  she  didn't  say  anything.  I  just  told  her  it  was  a  wrong  number,  and  that  was  that.&quot;  &quot;I'm  sure  you  were  polite,&quot;  Ruth  says  promptly.  &quot;But-&quot;  Mia  says.  &quot;These  things  are  hard,&quot;  Ruth  says.  Mia  is  still  trying  to  smile.  &quot;Wait  a  minute,  you  didn't  even  tell  her  who  it  was?  I  don't  understand.&quot;  She  does  -  understand.  She  looks  back  and  forth  between  them.  &quot;You  didn't  think  she'd  recognize  your  voice?&quot;  " b"&quot;He  wasn't  thinking  at  all,  doll,  that'sjust  it,&quot;  Ruth  says.  Mia  looks  at  Mr.  H.  &quot;But  you  could've  called  her  back.  You  could  have  explained.  Apologized.&quot;  Her  father-in-law  looks  away,  but  Ruth  is  in  there  almost  quickly  enough  for  it  to  seem  she  has  interrupted.  &quot;Af-  ter  all,  this  has  nothing  to  do  with  us,  hon,&quot;  she  says  to  Mia.  Catching  Mia's  eye  over  the  candle,  she  says  to  her  husband,  &quot;Mia  looks  cold,  Dick,  give  her  your  jacket.&quot;  But  no  one  moves.  Paul  hasnot  said  anything,  and  Ruth  pauses  before  say-  ing,  &quot;I've  been  thinking  about  the  service  tomorrow.  I  don't  think  there'll  be  too  many  people,  not  so  many  that  we  couldn't  have  them  over  to  the  house  afterward.&quot;  She  is  the  only  one  who  will  talk,  who  has  found  the  ap-  propriate  change  of  subject,  and  uses  it.  &quot;I  think  that  would  be  nice,&quot;  Mr.  H.  says  to  her.  THE  graveyard  is  mottled  with  dark  patches,  but  thereare  no  trees  big  enough  to  cast  such  shadows;  clouds  make  these.  &quot;You  okay?&quot;  Paul  says.  They  slow  down.  She  has  told  him  she  hasa  headache,  and  he,  knowing  her  headaches  and  knowing  she  will  not  take  anything  for  it,  puts  a  hand  around  her  neck,  but  she  is  thinking  of  another  place.  Christmas  in  [REDACTED],  snow.  The  vision  of  snow  quenches  the  sight  of  sun-drenched  dirt,  but  the  image  forms,  too,  because  of  the  way  he  has  his  hand  around  her  neck-her  father  used  to  do  this.  Just  cupped  his  hand  around  hersmall  neck,  weighing  it  gently  as  they  walked.  It  was  when  she  was  too  old  to  have  her  hand  held,  and  when  he  wanted  to  make  an  effort;  it  was  when  they  didn't  see  each  other  often,  those  weekends  once  a  month  when  she  took  the  train  or  bus  down  from  her  mother's  to  see  him.  She  would  do  anything  to  spare  a  child  that,  those  lonely  hours  between  one  home  and  another,  hours  that  at  best  would  form  the  hard,  sad  core  of  good  character.  There  is  a  breeze,  and  the  minister's  voice  comes  at  her  in  waves.  Around  them,  for  miles  in  every  direction,  is  desert,  a  wide  open,  relentless  blue  sky.  Mr.  H.  watches  impassively  as  his  mother  is  lowered  into  the  ground,  and  Mia  remembers  what  Paul  told  her  on  the  smallplane  from  San  Antonio. Both  grandmothers,  he  said,  had  claimed  he  resembled  their  respective  husbands.  Mia  believes  this-that  he  resembles  both  men-because  she  be-  lieves  that  there  is  something  of  [REDACTED]  in  all  of  them,  intheir  faces  and  in  the  way  they  think.  Paul  has  his  arm  around  her,  steadying  her,  and  her  headache  seems  to  pass.  But  then  in  her  sudden  brave  glance  at  the  joyless  land-  scape  of  mesquite  and  sand  and  black  shadow,  she  feels  dizzy  again;  dark  shapes  blur.  These  are  the  only  family  she  has;  Nancy  comes  from  a  family  of  brothers  and  sisters  andmoney.  Mia  is  startled  by  this  thought,  then  embar-  rassed  and  ashamed.  She  has  never  thought  this  way  before.  But  then,  before,  it  was  what  she  and  her  sister-  in-law  had  in  common  that  was  impor-  tant.  Staring  down  into  the  grave,  she  remembers  Mr.  H.  saying  that,  at  least  in  the  fifties,  a  standard  grave  in  certain  parts  of  [REDACTED]  had  to  be  at  least  fifty-  four  inches  deep.  She  will  not  be  buried  here.  She  looks  up,  her  eyes  scanning  the  horizon,  where  a  mesquite  tree  zigzags  like  acrazy  dancer  dressed  in  rags.  Mesquite,  Ruth  told  her,  was  a  member  of  the  bean  family.  In  the  car  after  the  service,  they  drive  by  the  same  scattering  of  wooden  crosses  and  odd  stonesthat  Mia  noticed  the  first  time  they  came  here.  &quot;What  are  those,  anyway?&quot;  she  says  now.  &quot;Are  those  graves  for  pets?&quot;  &quot;Well  now,  what  do  you  think?  No  reason  to  stop  separatin'  folks  after-  ward,&quot;  Mr.  H.  says  easily.  Mia  stiffens.  She  stares  out  the  win-  dow  at  the  passing  landscape.  Paul  has  his  arm  around  her.  After  a  minute,  she  leans  on  his  shoulder.  The  car  is  big  and  heavy,  and  smells  faintly  of  per-  fume.  Mia  closes  her  eyes.  Paul  is  telling  his  mother  that  they  would  like  to  have  the  mirror  from  the  guest  room.  Then  comes  Ruth's  voice.  She  closes  her  eyes  and  listens  to  Ruth's  voice.   "