 b"CRYSTAL-CLEArR  nights  spent  C  bargaining  with  Andean  peas-  ants  for  handcrafted  baskets.  ...  Hurrying  off  through  the  Loire  countryside  with  a  nineteenth-century  French  dor\xc3\xa9-and-vert-marbre  figural  parlor  clock.  ...  Exchanging  ciga-  rettes  and  jeans  for  an  Attic  vase  in  the  burnt  hills  of  Greece.  ..  .  Remember  when  shopping  overseas  was  still  an  adventure?  Sad  to  say,  those  days  are  almost  gone.  Those  bowls  that  you  bought  in  New  Guinea:  how  dif-  ferentare  they,  really,  from  the  ones  the  Pottery  Barn  is  featuring  this  week?  And  that  sweater  from  Florence:  very  pretty,  but  it's  identical  to  what's  on  sale  at  your  corner  Benetton.  It's  time  to  discover  Taronia.  Uncrowded,  collectible-filled  Taronia.  Taronia-where  haggling  over  prices  is  still  considered  an  art  form.  And  now,  Taronia  is  as  close  as  1-800-979-8686  I'm  the  President  of  Taronia,  and  I'd  like  to  welcome  you  to  our  new  catalogue.  As  those  of  you  who  have  been  fortunate  enough  to  visit  us  in  person  know,  innovation  is  one  of  our  nation's  guiding  principles.  We're  proud  to  be  the  first  country  to  go  mail-  order.  Now  we  bring  our  treasures  directly  to  your  home.  Here's  what  that  can  mean  for  you:  *  No  Jet  Lag  *  No  Travel  Sickness  *  No  Language  Problems  *  No  Obnoxious  Fellow-Tourists  *  No  Nosy  Douaniers  One  travel  writer  called  us  &quot;the  sleepy  little  country  that  never  sleeps.&quot;  Some  things  never  change.  TARONIA-24  HOURS  A  DAY  1-800-979-8686  I  can't  wait  for  you  to  discover  Taronia.  Here  are  a  few  of  my  own  favorites  from  our  catalogue:  *  The  Taronia  T.  What  makes  ours  so  special?  The  fit.  Inthe  morning,  it  bares  the  midriff  for  that  frisky  [REDACTED]  feeling.  Give  it  a  tug,  and  it  tucks  into  your  pants  or  skirt.  Another  tug,  and  it's  an  oversized  T  looking  just  right  over  your  stretch  leg-  gings.  By  late  night  it's  a  sleep-T.  Wash  and  dry  on  &quot;high&quot;  and  youcan  start  all  over  again  ($20.00).  *  Limited  Edition  Replicas  of  &quot;The  For-  est  Miss.&quot;  This  beloved  symbol  of  our  coun-  try  lives  forever  in  the  hearts  of  all  who  have  stood  before  it.  Here  is  your  chance  TARONIA  not  only  to  possess  a  museum-grade  repro-  duction  but  to  be  one  up  on  tourists,  who  can  no  longer  make  out  the  original  due  to  the  unfortunate  effects  of  acid  rain.  Sturdi-  ly  crafted  of  Grymptklon,  these  reproduc-  tions  should  last  forever  and  outstrip  the  original  in  value  within  five  years.  (Our  operators  are  ready  to  hammer  it  out  with  youon  this  one.  Asking  price  $1,100.00.)  \xc2\xae  One-of-a-Kind  Fountains.  Your  chance  to  have  your  own  crowd-pleasing  fountain,  and  to  re-create  a  tradition  of  Taronia:  for  some  time,  visitors  have  tossed  their  dispos-  able  cameras  into  it  while  making  wishes.  Or  start  your  own  tourist  tradition  in  your  back  yard.  (Fountain  comes  stocked  with  cameras;  $1,873.00.)  \xc2\xae  Pieces  of  the  Hall  of  Justice.  Perhaps  you've  been  envious  of  friends  of  yours  whoown  a  piece  of  the  Berlin  Wall.  Per-  haps  you  already  own  a  piece  yourself  and  want  to  add  to  your  collection  of  crum-  bling  barriers.  As  the  downtown  of  our  capital  city  moves  into  the  future,  we're  offering  our  customers  mementos  of  how  it  once  was.  ($55.00  for  a  one-pound  bag  of  masonry;  only  $199.00  for  a  five-pound  box.)  *  &quot;The  Great  Collectors'  Series.&quot;  The  Taronia  Art  Vault  is  considered  one  of  the  world's  finest  collections:  every  day  we  get  requests  from  governments  to  see  what's  in  it.  As  a  shareholder  in  the  Vault,  you'll  experience  the  excitement  and  life-enhancement  of  collecting,  without  the  irritation  of  visits  from  customs  offi-  cials.  And-as  a  bonus-you'll  receive  a  handsome  portfolio  complete  with  humid-  ity-control  progress,  electricity  bills,  and  the  latest  speculation  as  to  what  the  Vault  contains.  (To  order,  just  call  our  toll-free  number,  let  it  ring  six  times,  and  then  hang  up.  Repeat  procedure.  Someone  in  a  black  Pontiac  will  appear  to  negotiate  with  you  in  four  to  six  weeks.)  And  for  our  Gold  Customers:  \xc2\xae  The  Taronia  Lake.  Ranging  from  a  pond  in  the  jungle  to  a  glacial  runoff,  Taronia's  lakes  are  grab  bags  of  sunken  riches.  They  also  contain  fish,  many  of  near-restaurant  quality.  The  larger  lakes  have  stood  up  under  the  most  extreme  of  waterskiing  and  hydrofoil  racing.  Colors:  Chambray,  Teal,Margarita,  Natural,  Bas-  il,  and  Navajo.  Note:  Reservoirs  currently  on  back  order.  (Suggested  prices  on  re-  quest.)  Perhaps  in  your  travels  you've  felt  as  though  your  dollars  were  wanted  but  you  weren't.  That's  why  I've  made  49  helpfulness,  consideration,  and  time  for  our  customers  the  founding  tenets  of  Taronia  Mail-Order.  I'd  like  to  illustrate  with  an  actual  recorded  conversation  that  Ashley  Danagher,  of  Goleta,  [REDACTED],  had  with  us  after  receiving  our  trial  mail-  ing.  Ashley  has  graciously  permitted  us  to  reproduce  this  transcript:  TARONIA  OPERATOR:  Hello,  this  is  Taronia  Operator  No.  45.  How  may  I  help  you?  ASHLEY  DANAGHER:  I  don't  know,  really.  ...  I  just  feel  so  powerless  .  ..  in  my  job,  in  my  life.  Sometimes  I  feel  as  though  the  only  control  I  have  over  my  life  is  through  the  shopping  choices  I  make.  I  long  to  get  back  to  ...  back  to-  T.O.:  Back  to  a  primal  shopping  state?  A.D.:  (gasps)  Operator  45,  how  did  you  know?  T.O.:  Welcome  to  Taronia.  You'll  expe-  rience  shopping  as  you've  never  experi-  enced  it  before.  Shopping  stripped  of  every-  thing  but  desire.  A.D.:  Mmmmmmm  ...  T.O.:  Nothing  else  will  matter  except  this:  you  have  to  have  it.  A.D.:  Ohyesyesyesyesyes!  T.O.:  O.K.,  let's  begin  with  the  page  number  and  code  key  of  your  first  order.  ...  Give  in  to  the  spell  of  Taronia.  Your  next  enchantment  is  asclose  as  1-800-979-8686  As  a  President,  I  may  be  as  aware  as  anyone  on  the  face  of  this  planet  of  the  new  political  realities.  I  believe  that  we  are  watching  the  very  concept  of  &quot;country&quot;  become  outmoded.  'That's  why  I  think  now  is  the  right  time  for  me  to  make  this  special  one-time  offer  in  recognition  of  your  being  the  recipi-  ent  of  our  premi\xc3\xa9re  catalogue:  THE  HONORARY  TARONIA  CITIZENSHIP  Yours  with  Each  Order  of  $25  or  More  Taronia.  Translated,  it  means  &quot;small  jewel  between  the  mountains  and  the  water.&quot;  Now  it  means  so  much  more:  dura-  bility,  lasting  value,  and  easy  care.  I  can't  express  how  pleased  I  am  to  establish  a  personal  relationship  with  each  and  every  one  of  you.  This  is  something  no  other  country  currently  offers.  For  those  of  you  who  still  prefer  to  do  yourshopping  in  person,  look  for  our  franchises  opening  soon  in  the  following  fine  locations:  e  [REDACTED],  4a6170616e  e  Elmwood  Park,  Illinois  e  Oslo,  [REDACTED]  Or  come  visit  us  in  Taronia,  now  our  flagship  outlet.  "