 b"WE wanted  &quot;The  Birds&quot;  for  Christmas.  We  had  seen  the  commercials  for  it  on  the  tele-  vision  donated  thirdhand  by  the  Mer-  chant  Seamen's  and  Sailors'  Rest  Home,  a  big  black-and-white  Zenith  of  cracked  plastic  and  no  knobs,  a  dime  stuck  in  the  channel  selector.  You  could  adjust  the  picture  and  have  no  sound,  or  hi-fi  sound  and  no  picture.  We  just  wanted  the  picture.  We  want-  ed  to  see  &quot;The  Birds.&quot;  The  Old  Head  Nurse  said  not  to  get  our  hopes  up.  It  was  a  &quot;Late  Show&quot;  after  Lights  Out  the  night  before  Christmas  Eve.  She  said  it  would  wake  the  babies  and  scare  the  Little  Boys  down  on  the  far  end  of  the  ward.  Besides,  she  said,  she  didn't  think  it  was  the  type  of  movie  we  should  be  seeing  Christmas  week.  She  said  she  was  certain  there  would  be  Rudolph  and  Frosty  on.  That  would  be  more  appropriate  for  us  to  watch  on  the  night  before  Christmas  Eve.  &quot;Fuck  Frosty,&quot;  Michael  Christian  said  to  me.  &quot;I  seen  thata  /Awnrett  times.  I  want  tosee  'The  Birds,&quot;  man.  I  want  to  see  those  birds  get  all  up  i\xc2\xbb  them  people's  hair.  That's  some  real  Christ-  mas  TV  to  me.&quot;  Michael  Christian  and  I  were  some  of  the  last  Big  Boys  to  be  claimed  for  Christmas.  We  were  certain  someone  would  eventually  come  for  us.  We  were  notfrightened  yet.  There  were  still  some  other  Big  Boys  around-the  Big  Boy  who  ran  away  to  a  gas  station  every  other  night,  the  Human  Skeleton  who  would  bite  you,  and  the  guy  locked  away  on  the  sun  porch  who  the  Young  Doctors  were  taking  apart  an  arm  and  a  leg  at  a  time.  The  Young  Doctors  told  Michael  Christian  that  their  Christmas  gift  to  him  would  be  that  oneday  he  would  be  able  to  do  a  split  onstage  like  his  idol,  James  Brown.  There  never  seemed  to  be  any  doubt  in  Michael  Christian's  mind  about  that.  For  now,  he  just  wanted  to  see  &quot;'The  Birds&quot;while  he  pretended  to  be  James  Brown  in  the  Hospital.  Pretending  to  be  James  Brown  in  the  Hospital  was  not  without  its  hazards  for  Michael  Christian;  he  had  to  re-  member  to  keep  his  head  lifted  from  his  pillow  so  as  not  to  bedhead  his  budding  [REDACTED].  Once,  when  he  was  practicing  his  singing,  the  nurses  rushed  to  his  bed  asking  him  where  it  hurt.  &quot;I'm  warming  up  'I  Feel  Good,  stupid  bitches,&quot;  said  Michael  Chris-  tian.  Then  his  bed  was  jerked  from  the  wall  and  wheeled  with  great  speed,  pushed  and  pulled  alongby  hissing  nurses,  jarring  other  bedsteads,  Mi-  chael  Christian's  wrists  hanging  over  the  safety  bedrails  like  jailhouse-win-  dow  hands;  he  was  on  his  way  to  spend  a  couple  of  solitary  hours  out  in  the  long,  dark,  and  empty  hall,  him  rolling  his  eyes  at  me  as  he  sped  past,  saying,  &quot;Aw,  man,  now  I  feel  BAD!&quot;  Bed  wheeling  into  the  hall  was  one  of  the  few  alternatives  to  corporal  pun-  ishment  the  nurses  had,  most  of  them  being  reluctant  to  spank  a  child  in  traction  for  spitting  an  orange  pip  at  his  neighbor,  or  to  beata  completely  burned  child  for  cursing.  Bed  wheeling  into  the  hall  was  especially  effective  at  Christmastime,  when  it  carried  the  possibility  of  missing  Christmas  programs.  A  veteran  of  several  Christ-  mases  in  the  hospital  and  well  ac-  quainted  with  the  grim  Christmas  pro-  grams,  Michael  Christian  scoffed  at  the  treasures  handed  out  by  the  church  and  state  charities-the  aging  fruit,  the  surplus  ballpoint  pens,  the  occasional  batches  of  recycled  toys  that  didn't  work,  the  games  and  puzzles  with  miss-  ing  pieces.  Michael  Christian's  Christ-  mas  Wish  was  as  specific  as  mine.  I  wanted  a  miniature  train  set  with  bat-  teries  so  I  could  lay  out  the  track  to  run  around  on  my  bed  over  the  covers.  Not  the  big  Lionel  size  or  the  HO  size.  I  wanted  the  set  you  could  see  in  maga-  zines,  where  they  show  you  the  actual  size  of  the  railroad  engine  as  being  no  larger  than  a  walnut.  &quot;You  never  get  that,  man,&quot;  Michael  Christian  said,  and  he  was  right.  James  Brown  in  the  Hospital's  Christmas  Wish  was  for  &quot;The  Birds&quot;  for  Christmas.  And,  as  Michael  Chris-  tian's  friend,  I  becamean  accomplice  in  his  desire.  In  that  way,  &quot;birds&quot;  became  a  code,  the  way  words  can  among  boys.  &quot;Gimme  some  BIRDS!&quot;  Michael Christian  wouldsquawk  when  the  so-  ciety  ladies  on  their  annual  Christmas  visit  asked  us  what  we  wanted.  &quot;How  about  a  nice  hairbrush?&quot;  a  society  lady  said,  laying  one  for  white  people  at  the  footof  Michael  Chris-  tian's  bed.  &quot;I  want  a  pick,&quot;  Michael  Christian  toldher.  &quot;A  pick?  A  shovel  and  a  pick?  To  dig  with?&quot;  asked  the  society  lady.  &quot;I  think  he  wants  a  comb  for  his  hair,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;For  his  [REDACTED].&quot;  \xc2\xabThat's  right:  a  pick,&quot;  said  Michael  Christian.  &quot;Tell  this  stupid  white  bitch  something.  Squawk,  squawk,&quot;  he  said,  flapping  his  elbows  like  wings,  as  the  nurses  wheeled  him  out  into  the  hall.  &quot;Gimme  some  BIRDS!&quot;  he  shouted,  and  when  they  asked  me,  I  said  to  give  me  some  birds,  too.  Michael  Christian's  boldness  over  the  Christmas  programs  increased  when  Ben,  the  night  porter,  broke  the  television.  Looking  back,  it  may  not  be  fair  to  say  that  Ben,  the  night  por-  ter,  actually  broke  the  television,  but  oneevening  it  was  soundlessly  play-  ing  some  kiddie  Christmas  show  and  Ben  was  standing  near  it  mopping  up  a  spilt  urinal  can  when  the  screen  and  the  hope  of  Michael  Christian's  getting  his  Christmas  Wish  blackened  simultaneously.  Apologetic  at  first,  knowing  what  even  a  soundless  tele-  vision  meant  to  children  who  had  rare-  ly  seen  any  television  at  all,  Ben  then  offered  to  &quot;burn  up  your  butt,  Mi-  chael  Christian,  legs  braces  and  all&quot;  when  Michael  Christian  hissed  &quot;stu-  pid  nigger&quot;  at  Ben,  beneath  the  night  nurse's  hearing.  It  was  a  sombre  Lights  Out.  The  next  night,  a  priest  and  some  students  from  the  seminary  came  by.  Practice  Preachers,  Michael  Christian  said.  While  one  of  the  students  read  the  Christmas  story  from  the  Bible,  Michael  Christian  pretended  to  peck  his  own  eyes  out  with  pinched  fingers.  When  the  story  was  finished,  Michael  Christian  said,  &quot;Now,  you  say  the  sheepherding  guys  was  soafraid,  right?&quot;  &quot;Sore  afraid,&quot;  said  the  Practice  Preacher.  &quot;The  shepherds  had  never  seen  angels  before,  and  they  were  sore  afraid.&quot;  &quot;Naw,&quot;  said  Michael  Christian.  &quot;I'll  tell  you  what-they  saw  these  big  white  things  flapping  down  and  they  was  big  birds,  man.  I  know  birds,  man,  " b"I  know  when  you  got  bird  problems,  [REDACTED];  &quot;'They  were  angels,&quot;  said  the  young  seminary  student.  &quot;Naw,&quot;  said  Michael  Christian.  &quot;They  was  big  white  birds,  and  the  sheepherding  guys  were  so  afraid  the  big  white  birds  was  swooping  down  and  getting  all  up  in  they  hair  and  stuff!  Squawk,  squawk!&quot;  he  said,  flapping  around  in  his  bed.  &quot;Squawk,  squawk!&quot;  I  answered,  and  two  of  the  Practice  Preachers  assisted  the  nurses  in  wheeling  Michael  Chris-  tian  into  the  hall  and  me  into  the  linen  cupboard.  One  night  in  the  week  before  Christ-  mas,  a  man  named  Sammy  came  to  visit.  He  had  been  a  patient  as  a  child,  and  his  botched  cleft-palate  and  harelip  repairs  were  barely  concealed  by  a  weird  line  of  blond  mustache.  Sammy  owned  a  hauling  company  now,  and  he  showed  up  blistering  drunk,  wearing  a  ratty  [REDACTED]  suit,  and  began  handing  out  black-strapped  Timex  junior  wrist,  watches.  I  still  have  mine,  somewhere.  One  by  one  we  told  Sammy  what  we  wanted  for  Christmas,  even  though  we  were  not  sure,  because  of  his  speech  defect,  thatthat  was  what  he  was  ask-  ing.  Me,  the  walnut  train;  Michael  Christian,  &quot;The  Birds.&quot;  We  answered  without  enthusiasm,  without  hope:  it  was  all  by  rote.  By  the  end  of  the  visit,  Sammy  was  a  blubbering  sentimental  mess,  reeking  of  alcohol  and  promises.  Ben,  the  night  porter,  put  him  out.  T  was  Christmas  Eve  week.  The  boy  who  kept  running  away  finally  ran  away  for  good.  Before  he  left,  he  snatched  the  dime  from  the  channel  selector  on  our  broken  TV.  We  all  sawhim  do  it  and  we  didn't  care.  We  didn't  even  yell  out  to  the  night  nurse,  so  he  could  get  a  better  head  start  than  usual.  It  was  Christmas  Eve  week,  and  Michael  Christian  lay  listless  in  his  bed.  We  watched  the  Big  Boy  ward  empty.  Somebody  even  came  for  one  of  the  moaners,  and  the  guy  out  on  the  sun  porch  was  sent  upstairs  for  a  final  visit  to  the  Young  Doctors  so  they  could  finish  taking  him  apart.  On  the  night  before  Christmas  Eve,  Michael  Christian  and  I  heard  street  shoes  clicking  down  the  long  corridor  that  led  to  where  we  lay.It  was  after  Lights  Out.  We  watched  and  waited  and  waited.  It  was  just  Sammy  the  [REDACTED],  except  this  time  he  was  wearing  a  pale-blue  leisure  suit,  his  hair  was  oiled  back,  and  his  hands,  holding  a  red-wrapped  box,  were  clean.  What  we  did  not  want  for  Christmas  were  wristwatches.  What  we  did  not  want  for  Christmas  were  bars  of  soap.  We  did  not  want  any  more  candy  canes,  bookmarks,  ballpoint  pens,  or  somebody  else's  last  year's  broken  toy.  For  Christmas  we  did  not  want  plastic  crosses,  dot  books,  or  fruit  baskets.  No  more  handshakes,  head  pats,  or  story-  book  times.  It  was  the  night  before  Christmas  Eve,  and  Michael  Christian  had  not  mentioned  &quot;The  Birds&quot;  in  days,  and  I  had  given  up  on  the  walnut  train.  We  did  not  want  any  more  Christmas  Wishes.  Sammy  spoke  with  the  night  nurse,  we  heard  him  plead  that  it  was  Christ-  mas,  and  she  said  all  right,  and  by  her  flashlight  she  brought  him  to  us.  In  the  yellow  spread  of  her  weak  batteries,  we  watched  Michael  Christian  unwrap  a  portable  television.  There  was  nothing  to  be  done  except  plug  the  television  into  the  wall.  It  was  Christmas,  Sammy  coaxed  the  reluc-  tant  night  nurse.  They  put  the  little  TV  on  a  chair,  and  we  watched  the  end  of  an  Andy  Williams  Christmas  Spe-  cial.  We  watched  the  eleven-o'clock  news.  Then  the  movie  began:  &quot;The  Birds.&quot;  It  was  Christmas,  Sammy  con-  vinced  the  night  nurse.  t  The  night  nurse  wheeled  her  chair  away  from  the  chart  table  and  rolled  it  to  the  television  set.  The  volume  was  low,  so  as  not  to  disturb  the  damaged  babies  at  the  Little  Boy  end  of  the  ward  -babies  largely  uncollected  until  after  the  holidays,  if  at  all.  Sammy  sat  on  an  empty  bed.  He  patted  it.  Michael  Christian  and  I  watched  &quot;The  Birds.&quot;  During  the  commercials,  the  night  nurse  checked  the  hall  for  the  supervi-  sor.  Sarimy  helped  her  turn  any  infant  that  cried  out.  The  night  nurse  let  Sammy  have  some  extra  pillows.  Michael  Christian  spoke  to  me  only  once  during  the  entire  movie:  quietly,  during  a  commercial  whenwe  were  alone,  he  said,  &quot;Those  birds  messing  them  people  up.&quot;  When  the  movie  was  over,  it  was  the  first  hours  of  Christmas  Eve.  The  night  nurse  woke  Sammy  and  let  him  out  through  the  sun  porch.  She  told  us  to  go  to  sleep,  and  rolled  her  chair  back  to  her  chart  table.  In  the  emptiness  you  could  hear  the  metal  charts  click  and  scratch,  her  folds  of  white  starch  rustle.  Through  a  hole  in  the  pony  blanket  I  had  pulled  over  my  head  I  could  see  Michael  Christian's  bed.  His  precious  [REDACTED]  head  was  buried  deep  beneath  his  pillow.  At  the  dark  end  of  the  ward  a  baby  cried  in  its  sleep  and  then  was  still.  It  was  Christmas  Eve,  and  we  were  sore  afraid.  "