 b"MY  IDEAL  &quot;He  was  a  tall,  large,  and  muscular  manwho  liked  to  take  advantage  of  that  fact.  He  had  a  great,  hairy  torso  and  a  stone  wall  abdomen  on  shanks  that  were  ..  .  overwrapped  with  sinew  and  his  strength  sometimes  seemed  to  burst  through  his  arms  the  same  way  his  arms  sometimes  burst  through  his  shirts.&quot;  This  homoerotic  paean  to  a  distinguished  writer-regrettably  abbreviated  for  space-is  the  early  work  of  Peter  Hamill  (with  Alfred  Aronowitz)  in  &quot;Ernest  Hemingway:  The  Life  and  Death  of  a  Man&quot;  (Lancer  Books,  out  of  print).  It  shows  the  young,  sensitive  Hamill,  not  the  postliberal  hack.  I FEEL  that  the  author  of  this  let-  I  ter  is  too  pessimistic.  There's  a  tone  of  resignation  I  don't  like,  a  so-much-for-him  attitude  Ifind  pre-  sumptuous.  Mr.  Hamill  is  written  off  as  a  lost  soul.  But  how  can  we  know  for  sure  that  his  sensitivity  won't  come  back  later,  that  he  won't  besaved  in  his  middle  or  declining  years?  Even  one  moment  from  now-  it's  always  possible.  It's  what  hap-  pened  to  me.  Although  I'm  a  woman,  my  own  early  years  were  basically  just  one  long  paean  to  the  masculine  physique.  My  perfect  man  was  not  a  projection  onto  Ernest  Hemingway  but  an  abstraction,  a  pure  construct  I  called  My  Ideal.  Nonetheless,  the  concerns  were  simi-  lar:  height,  strength,  abdominal  hard-  ness,  body  hair-the  universals.  For-  tune  didn't  present  me  with  an  Alfred  Aronowitz  to  collaborate  in  packaging  in  the  Village  Voice.  my  material,  so  all  it  amounted  to  was  a  series  of  idle  handwritten  pens\xc3\xa9es,  illusory  quests  for  embodied  form.  A  surviving  fragment:  Maybe  he's  a  dream,  and  yet  he  might  be  right  around  the  sizeofa  marble  colos-  sus,  his  muscled  and  hairy  chest  strain-  ing  at  the  confines  of  his  little  skintight  ribbed  undershirt  the  way  a  heavy  boulder  would  if  encased  in  fragile  netting  of  some  kind.  These  early  intuitions  were  rein-  forced  by  observations  of  external  real-  ity,  recorded  over  many  years  in  a  diary  I  labelled  &quot;Parans&quot;:  Noticed  a  fireman  (they're  all  gor-  geous),  one  hand  gripping  axe,  the  other  with  strong  sinews  of  wrist  dangling  just  below  sleeve  of  that  black  rubber  overcoat  they  wear.  His  no  doubt  muscled  arms  invisible  under  sleeves,  yet  somehow  an  explosive  quality  came  through.  Male  passenger  sitting  next  to  me  on  D  train,  powerful  feet  enwrapped  by  Earth  &quot;Go  deep!&quot;  shoes.  Hair  on  backs  of  hands  as  he  perused  nihilist  pamphlet,  v.  sexy.  Shopping  for  present  for  [name  deleted]  in  Barnacle  Bill's  [at  that  time  a  discount  store,  not  upscale  like  today],  saw  guy,  artistic  loner  obviously  w/o  a  clue  how  staggeringly  handsome  he  is,  trying  on  Ital-  ian  Merchant  Marine  mohair  sommelier's  jacket  much  too  small.  Bulges  ofhis  shoul-  ders  threatened  to  split  seams  of  tight-fit-  ting  fabric-thought  I'd  die.  Car  trip  w/[name  irrelevant],  summer  shower,  then  sun  came  out  just  as  we  passed  a  Ready-Pump  station,  two  grease  monkeys  in  camouflage  jumpsuits  soaked  to  the  skin,  like  great  and  drenched  tropical  cats.  Seems  to  be  new  80s  fad  of  men  wearing  wallet  tucked  into  front  of  pants  waist,  band,  buccaneer-style.  Creates  impression  of  abdominal  muscle  on  varied  builds-  short,  medium-short,  small-medium,  aver-  age,  biggish,  husky,  massive,  custom,  apoc-  alyptic.  UT  young  and  sensitive  isn't  enough  if  you're  ambitious.  Some-  where  was  a  high  plateau  tostrive  for,  and  I  felt  ready  to  enlist  the  help  of  Alfred  Aronowitz.  When  my  letter,  c/o  his  publisher,  went  unanswered,  the  rebuff  was  devastating.  Why  I  couldn't  forget  it  and  move  forward  I  can't  explain.  Maybe  I  wanted  an  excuse  to  immobilize  myself:  perfec-  tion  or  nothing.  I  became  obsessed  with  Alfred  Aronowitz  as  the  ideal  and  only  possible  partner  in  the  3  grand  enterprise  that  would  now  never  hap-  pen.  The  last  refuge  of  the  obsessed  is  supersti-  tion.  I  turned  to  nu-  merology  for  answers,  studying  crank  medie-  val  screeds  and  primi-  tive  iconography  to  learn  how  many  weeks,  months,  or  years  lay  between  me  and  my  unattainable  goal:  two  (classical  symbol  of  balance,  justice,  and  death),  ten  (complete  cycle  of  life  and  death  in  measurement  system  going  back  to  Ro-  mans),  three  hundred  and  sixty-five  (random  figure  obtained  by  throwing  clamshells).  And  then,  aggression  being  the  last  refuge  of  the  superstitious,  I     " b"went  into  sadistic  fantasies:  Alfred  Aronowitz  totally  in  my  power,  his  forearm  muscles  groaning  against  the  half  hitches  in  the  hairy  hemp  seamen's  rope.  ...  As  such  thoughts  grew  repul-  siveto  me,  the  repulsion  general-  ized  to  all  of  reality.  One  day  I  ran  into  an  old  friend  in  the  gun  store.It  was  fine  weather,  and  he  was  in  a  great  mood  until  he  burst  out,  &quot;You  look  so  angry!  What  is  all  this  anger  about?  What  is  your  goddam  problem  with  an-  ger?&quot;  My  problem,  of  course,  was  that  my  little  toy  dream  world  had  shattered.  Even  my  friend's  gruff,  Papa  Bear  charm  had  lost  its  magic.  My  hand  accidentally  brushed  against  his  abdomen,  and  it  was  rock  hard  with  repressed  anxiety.  Maybe  he,  too,  had  sud-  denly  seen  that  life  was  no  time-  less  Eden  full  of  noble  strength  clad  in  some  torn  shreds  of  fur  but  the  exact  opposite.  Paean  from  a  typical  evening  around  that  time:  m  3  ves  $  -  m  wows  Dinner  at  [omitted]'s  house,  seated  next  to  one  of  top  men  in  city-  could  easily  put  out  contract  on  any  guest  at  table  yet  mysteriously  just  &quot;happens&quot;  to  never  get  around  to  it.  (Misguided  notion  of  heroism?)  Every  sinew  in  room  taut  w/com-  petitiveness  at  knuckling  under  to  [then-powerful  hostess],  who  bragged  abt.  her  affair  w/some  Caribbean  strongman  and  called  French  champagne  by  euphe-  mism  &quot;sparkling  wine&quot;  to  bully  us  all  into  collusion  w/totalitarian  fantasy  that  she  could  redefine  luxury  drink  as  casual  sub-  alcoholic  working-class  commodity  like  Champale.  Not  one  person  (incl.  self)  w/guts  to  shove  her  nose  in  facts.  Her  current  husband,  some  sortof  ex-bullfight-  er,  speaks  no  English,  spent  dinner  reading  own  passport.  To  her  right,  ghastly  world-  champ  social  climber,  ].  practically  busted  his  shirtfront  coming  up  w/new  sentences  containing  the  word  &quot;servants.&quot;  Everybody  like  vultures,  oohing  and  aahing  abt.sizeof  the  fish  and  their  &quot;strong  feel-  ings&quot;  re  some  world  disaster  they  took  as  private  affront  to  sacred  memory  of  how  much  hair  they  had  in  1960s.  Meanwhile,  table  centerpiece  on  closer  inspection  not  row  of  coconuts  but  actual  shrunken  heads  w/the  hair  still  on  them,  which  everybody  pretended  not  to  notice  because  nobody  else  saying  anything  or  because  saying  somethmg  might  halt  flow  of  &quot;sparkling  wine&quot;  or  diminish  sense  of  entitlement  to  universe  as  their  personal  villa,  salvage  dump,  and  clinic.  Hated  self  forsitting  there  like  a  mummy.  Across  table,  one  of  those  graybeard  avuncular-doctor  Norman  Rockwell  types  w/lifetime  of  stored-up  voltage  a  millimeter  under  surface.  Dropped  my  napkin,  saw  his  shank  kick  the  cat.  At  the  time,  I  didn't  view  myself  as  embittered.  Unable  to  admit  perfectly  normal  feelings  of  failure  and  disap-  pointment,  I  dwelled  on  whatwas  wrong  with  people.  Their  humanly  understandable  unrealistic  delusions  drove  me  to  some  pretty  cynical  theo-  ries:  &quot;Let  Jack  do  it,&quot;  &quot;I'm  all  right,  Frank,&quot;  &quot;Rot  in  Hell,  Harry&quot;  -the  whole  panoply  of  middle-age-malaise  gallows  philosophies  came-to  me  like  newborn  truths.  I  stopped  being  friends  with  women  who  gawked  at  younger  men's  bodies  in  public  or  described  their  portly  husbands  as  Apollos.  I  picked  a  fight  in  a  bar.  Walked  right  up  to  her  and  for  no  good  reason  sneered,  &quot;How's  your  old  man?&quot;  and  she  sloshed  her  Rattlesnake  longneck  beer  at  me  on  purpose.  I  guess  that  was  when  I  bottomed  out.  We  assume  that  people  going  through  these  postliberal  phases  are  enjoying  themselves,  but  no  one  really  likes  having  a  crisis  of  lost  youthful  sensitivity.  How  did  I  get  through  it?  Gardening  helped.  Also,  it's  easier  for  a  woman,  because  when  you  collapse  and  harden  your  heart  and  turn  on  people,  they  can  say,  &quot;Oh,  she's  into  gardening  now.&quot;  It  was  a  tough  time,  though.  My  point  is,  IT  DOESN'T  HAVE  TO  STAY  THAT  WAY.  These  things  have  a  momentum,  and  you  can  ride  them  out.  Sure,  it  still  crosses  my  mind,  May-  be  there's  something  in  my  mailbox  today  from  &quot;Alfred  Aronowitz&quot;  (I've  realized  that  he  was  unreal  to  me,  an  illusion  or  figurehead)-after  all  these  years,  a  postcard  from  a  foreign  country,  with  an  apology  and  an  airtight  excuse:  &quot;Shipwrecked  in  the  [REDACTED],  pirates  stole  my  files,  sand  in  everything.&quot;  But  now,  thank  good-  ness,  I'm  able  to  feel  guilty  about  having  these  foolish  thoughts.  It's  a  more  mature-an  enlightened  sen-  sitivity.  Anyway,  my  ideal  has  changed:  Man  w/stone  wall  face  that  sometimes  burstsinto  smile.  Possible  to  find  fault,  but  life  so  regrettably  abbreviated  for  space. "