 b"THEIR  outward  appearances  told  him  almost  nothing:  some  of  the  prettiest  and  daintiest  turned  out  to  have  cold  fingers  and  a  merciless  touch  where  the  nerve  lurks  close  to  the  surface,  and  some  of  the  plainest,  with  doughy,  humorless  faces  and  rimless  glasses,  enveloped  him  in  velvet  sensa-  tions.  Today's,  for  example-a  total  stranger,  as  was  always  the  case;  the  turnover  was  terrific,  suggesting  an  overheated  profession  susceptible  to  stress,  pregnancy,  and  tempting  offers  from  other  establishments-with  a  nunnish  severity  led  our  hero  to  her  little,  heavily  equipped  room  and  of-  fered  him,  as  she  settled  him  onto  his  back,  only  the  most  grudging  small  talk.  Yet  as  soon  as  she  touched  his  mouth  he  knew  that  he  was  home,  that  she  was  a  rare  one,  one  he  could  trust  not  to  hurt  him  more  than  necessary.  The  threat  of  pain  was  the  mystical  spice  of  these  liaisons,  the  heaven-sent  seriousness  that  concentrated  attention  on  both  sides.  Heaven  here  was  a  ceiling  of  acous-  tical  tiles,  perforated  irregularly  as  if  to  entertain  trapped  eyes  like  his.  The  we  \xef\xac\x81fty\xe2\x80\x9c  i  angelic  music  was  from  an  &quot;easy  lis-  tening'&quot;'  station-every  third  tune,  it  seemed  to  him,  that  nonsensical  croon  about  Key  Largo,  Bogie  and  Bacall,  here's  looking  at  you  kid,  we  had  it  all.  .  &quot;Turn  your  head  toward  me,  please.&quot;  Occasionally,  one  of  her  bare  forearms  brushed  his  ear  or  nose,  stir-  ring  up  in  a  small  pollenlike  cloud  the  scent  of  clean  female  flesh.  Because  of  AIDS,  they  wore  surgical  masks  now,  and  disposable  plastic  gloves.  Death  has  always  been  the  possible  price  of  con-  tact,  but  as  contacts  multiplied,  so  have  possibilities,  forming  a  continuous  moist  membrane  for  viral  self-advance-  ment.  She  worked  along  his  lower-gum  line,  pausing  periodically  to  wipe  one  of  her  oblique,  needle-sharp  instru-  ments  on  a  paper  napkin  on  the  plastic  tray  beside  her,  next  tohis  head.  Some  women  he  hadhad  in  the  past  would  use  his  chest  as  a  table,  resting  their  tools  on  his  paper  bib,  making  a  small,  illegitimate  joke,  he  would  feel,  of  their  bodily  intimacy.  This  one  would  never  so  trespass.  Though  his  open  mouth  with  its  rim  of  teeth  and  the  round plastic  tray  with  its  serrated  edges  might  closely  alternate  in  the  field  of  her  attention,  she  would  never  suggest  that  they  were  interchangeable.  The  one,  the  tray,  was  merely  a  thing,  whereas  the  other  had  nerves  and  a  soul  -an  ego  inside  a  thing.  A  sensitive,  self-solicitous  thing.  Her  touch,  as  it  methodically  travelled  along,  magni-  fied  his  tiny  surfaces,  smoothed  their  bumps  and  crevices  into  a  continuous  plane  of  now  dim,  now  vivid  nervous  apprehension.  &quot;A  little  sore  tissue  un-  der  these  bridges.  Don't  be  afraid  to  get  up  in  there  with  the  floss.&quot;  Silently,  in  prayer's  shouting  inner  voice,  he  assured  her  that  he  henceforth  would  not  be  afraid.  He  did  not  speak  for  fear  of  dislodging  the  muttering  suction  tube,  shaped  like  a  question  mark.  Sometimes  his  roving  eyes  flicked  into  her  own,  then  leapt  away,  over-  whelmed  by  their  glory,  their-as  the  deconstructionists  say-presence.  His  glance  didn't  dare  linger  even  long  enough  to  register  the  color  of  these  eyes;  he  gatheredonly  just  the  spiritual,  starlike  afterimage  of  their  living  gel,  simultaneously  crystalline  and  watery,  behind  the  double  veil  of  her  glasses  and  safety  goggles,  above  the  shield-  shaped  paper  mask  hiding  her  mouth,  her  chin,  her  nostrils.  So  much  of  her  was  enwrapped,  protected.  Only  love's  essentials  were  al-  lowed,  likea  barnacle's  feathery  appendages,  to  emerge-her  touch,  her  steadfast,  humorless  gaze.  &quot;Now,  away  from  me  a  little.  Not  quite  so  much.  Perfect.&quot;  Perfect.  Would  that  he  were.  Sinking  beyond  the  reach  of  shame,  he  relaxed  into  her  exploration  and  scarification  of  his  lower  mo-  lars,  corrupt  wrecks  just  barely  salvaged  from  the  ruin  of  his  years  of  unthinking  consumption.  Her  attentions,  pricking  and  probing  on  the  ticklish  edge  of  pain,  formed  a  cradle  of  interwoven  curves,  from  the  plump  meat  of  the  ball  of  her  thumb  tan-  gent  upon  his  upper  lip  to  the  arc  of  her  masked  face  bent  an  inch  or  two  above  his  nose.  She  was  a  kind  of  bas-  ket,  woven  of  long  soft  " b"strands  of  tactful  touch  and  un-  stated,  clinical  thought,  inverted  above  him,  a  firmament;  her  star-  ing  black  pupils  were  the  size  of  the  perforations  in  the  acoustic  ceiling.  She  was  seeing,  and  forgiving  even  as  she  saw,  a  side  of  himself  he  had  never  had  to  face-an  underside,  microbe-ridden,  much-repaired.  She  had  an  angle  on  him  that  he  was  spared.  Other  people  in  gener-  al  possess  this,  this  grim  and  in-  stant  purchase  on  the  specifics  of  a  self  mercifully  vague  in  its  self-  perception.  But  this  case,  his  and  hers,  seemed  extreme,  like  some-  thing  from  a  supermarket  tabloid  or  a  Harlequin  romance.  Serenely  she  presided  above  his  supine  abasement.  Done  with  the  lowers,  she  told  him  to  sit  up  and  &quot;have  a  good  rinse,&quot;  and  spit.  Blood,  his  blood,  appeared  in  the  ecru  bow!  alive  with  centripetal  water.  Sticky,  stringy  dark  blood.  He  was  even  more  loathsome  than  he  had  supposed.  And  still  she  returned  to  the  bout,  tackling  his  uppers,  commanding  him  to  open  wider.  At  her  faintly  more  aggressive  tone,  a  sense  of  counter-  striving  invaded  his  body;  he  seemed  to  arch  upward  in  the  chair,  fitting  him-  self  with  a  push  into  her  ministrations.  Her  flesh,  as  it  touched  his,  had  a  resil-  ience  slightly  greater  than  thatof  a  ciga-  rette  pack,  a  warmth  a  bit  less  than  that  of  a  flashlight  face,  a  humidity  even  more  subtle  than  thatof  laundry  re-  moved  a  minute  too  soon  from  the  dryer.  She  was  made  for  him,  of  the  same  imperilled  and  fallible  substance,  yet  al-  so  woven  of  Heaven,  unpossessable,  timeless,  inviolate,  though  focussed  in  every  atomupon  him,  indeednonexis-  tent  but  for  his  adoration,  like  air  made  blue  by  our  own  vision,  and  burned  into  life  by  our  lungs.  &quot;How're  you  doing?&quot;  Had  he  betrayed,  by  some  groan  or  tensing,  discomfort?  Had  the  transfixed  state  of  his  soul  translated  somatically  into  resistance  or  involuntary  spasm!  &quot;Fine.&quot;  It  felt  like  a  lie-less  than  the  whole  story-or  a  vow,  which  is  also  too  simple.  Now  another  mangy  pet  of  the  easy-listening  stations  slid  into  the  room,  an  arrangement  of  &quot;The  Girl  from  Ipanema&quot;  shorn  of  the  troubling,  too  rapid  lyrics.  &quot;Just  a  little  more,&quot;  she  promised  lullingly.  &quot;Then  we'll  polish  and  floss.&quot; &quot;Unnh,&quot;  he  said,  like  a  ditto  mark  under  his  previous,  mendacious  yet  sin-  cere  monosyllabic  utterance.  And  in  her  flurry  of  searching  out  the  last  potentially  disastrous  plaque  in  the  remotest  crevices  of  his  upper  left  molars  her  spirit  intertwined  with  his;  she  leaned  deeper  in;  he  felt  the  parallel  beams  of  her  gaze  like  lasers  vaporizing  his  imperfections;  their  bodies  became  mere  metaphor.  Moments  passed  in  rhythmic  scraping.  Then  she  pulled  back  and  straight-,  ened  up,  her  face  a  mask,  her  eyes  noncommittal.  He  was  clean.  He  was  done.  She  had  done  him.  &quot;You  may  rinse,&quot;  she  said.  The  polishing,  with  its  playful  ca-  ress  of  microscopic  grit,  and  the  flossing-quick,  brusque,  nimble  around  and  under  the  bridges-felt  anticlimactic.  Without  the  threat  of  pain,  their  encounter  became  small,  as  the  childish  perpetrators  of  giant  agi-  tated  shadows  shrink  when  the  candle  is  put  out.  She  did  not  use  that  agoniz-  ing  machine  some  of  the  women  used,  the  Cavijet,  a  high-pressure  nozzle  with  a  high-pitched  whine,  an  icy  nee-  dle  on  your  inflamed  nerves.  It  would  havebeen  a  synthetic  effect.  &quot;Nice,&quot;  he  said,  working  his  bruised  lips  over  his  teeth,  as  ideal  as  they  could  ever  be.  &quot;How  did  I  look,  over  all?&quot;  &quot;Uh-do  you  smoke,  or  drink  a  lot  of  tea?&quot;  &quot;No.  Why?&quot;  Her  mask  and  goggles  were  off;  she  blushed.  It  was  thrilling  to  see  emotion  tinge  that  doughy,  prim,  professional  face.  She  cared.  She  had  to  care,  after  all.  How  could  she  go  through  the  motions  and  not  care?  &quot;I  just  won-  dered,&quot;  she  said,  turning  away  in,  at  last,  embarrassment.  &quot;You  have  a  fair  amount  of  staining.&quot;  &quot;Maybe  that's  my  age.  Normal  dete-  rioration.&quot;  She  shook  off  the  idea-it  was  heret-  ical,  perhaps;  there  was  no  normal  de-  terioration  in  her  belief  system-and  wrote  on  a  chart  in  his  folder,  and  inscribed  a  small  slip  for  him  to  take  down  to  the  front  desk.  Then  .  ..  then  she  turned  and  faced  him.  Her  eyes  in  the  TV-screen-shaped  rectangles  of  her  glasses  were  distinctly,  earthily  ha-  zel-green  flecked  with  gold  and  rust  -above  her  rosy  cheeks.  &quot;There's  a  bleaching  process  that's  pretty  safe  and  effective,&quot;  she  said,  with  a  lilt  reined  in  just  short  of  ardor.  There  was,  but  she  wouldn't  be  the  one  to  administer  it.  You  never  had  the  same  one  twice.  The  principle  lay  be-  tween  them  like  a  sword.  Otherwise,  it  wouldn't  be  eternal.  It  wouldn't  be  hygiene.  "