 b"GEORGE  HamitToN  has  just  been  great.  He  didn't  have  to  goon  all  those  morning  shows;  it  wasn't  part  of  his  contract.  He  did  it  because  he  believes  in  the  project.  But  he's  just  been  great,  We  knew  that  we  were  taking  an  enormous  chance,  first  by  making  this  movie  in  the  first  place,  and  then  by  releasing  it  here  in  the  middle  of  the  summer.  But  we  all  be-  lieve  in  the  project.  For  years  I  admired  the  novel  &quot;Nau-  sea,&quot;  by  Jean-Paul  Sartre.  It  said  some-  thing  very  important  to  me.  I  still  remember  the  afternoon  when  I  looked  up  from  my  table  at  the  Polo  Lounge,  where  I  was  takinga  meeting  with  Nick  Roeg,  Bernardo  Bertolucci,  Preminger,  and  I  think  John  Cassavetes  (we  were  in  the  first  stages  of  what  was  to  become  the  Jerry  Lewis  'Sartoris'&quot;'  project),  and  my  mind  unexpectedly  produced  the  magical  Sartre  lines-I  trans-  late  roughly-&quot;I  glance  around  the  room  and  a  violent  disgust  floods  me.  What  am  I  doing  here?  Why  did  I  have  to  get  mixed  up  in  a  discus-  sion  on  humanism?&quot;  Straight  from  &quot;La  Naus\xc3\xa9e.&quot;  I  knew  that  someday,  if  I  got  the  chance,  I  would  try  to  make  the  book  into  a  movie.  Years  later,  1987,  I  was  having  a  drink  at  L'Ermitage  with  Sam  Spiegel  and  Peter  Guber.  I  mentioned  idly  that  I  had  always  loved  &quot;Nausea&quot;  and  said  I  thought  it  would  make  a  great  movie.  To  my  surprise,  Guber  and  Spiegel  had  both  read  the  book  and  they  both  loved  it.  &quot;God,  yes,&quot;  Sam  murmured.  &quot;The  larva,  the  presence  in  the  garden.  How  does  it  go?  'It  was  there  ...  toppled  down  into  the  trees,  all  soft,  sticky,  soiling  everything,  all  thick,  a  jelly.&quot;  That's  picture-making.&quot;  We  talked  it  over.  We  hammered  it  out.  By  twelve  we  had  a  deal.  The  first  question  everybody  asks  is  about  the  casting.  I  don't  want  to  boast,  but  I  must  say  that  Hamilton  was  my  Roquentin  right  from  the  start.  Other  names  came  up-Matt  Broderick,  Ed-  die  Murphy-but  I  never  had  the  slightest  doubt  that  Hamilton  would  wind  up  as  Roquentin.  Even  before  the  sets  were  dressed,  we'd  moved  out  on  our  take-no-pris-  oners  merchandising  campaign.  We  knew  this  was  a  necessity  because  our  vehicle  is  so  pure-no  killings  or     shootings  or  nudity  (if  you  don't  count  Roquentin's  vision  in  the  brasserie  of  the  &quot;fat,  hot,  sensual,  absurd&quot;  woman  with  the  red  ears).  Our  picture  doesn't  try  to  blow  your  brains  out  with  a  lot  of  stupid  explosions  in  Dolby.  We  didn't  have  any  of  those  things  because  we're  not  even  looking  for  an  audi-  ence  on  this  one;  that's  why  our  line  of  action  figures  was  developed.Since  our  project  isn't  aimed  at  anybody  at  all,  except  maybe  one  or  two  special  people  like  us,  we  needed  to  break  even  somewhere.  The  Roquentin  figure.  We've  got  him  wearing  his  trademark  black  suit  with  a  gray  vest  and  red  tie,  but  we've  got  him  sort  of  crouched,  ready  for  action.  His  head  turns  from  side  to  side  and  his  arms  move  up  and  down.  He's  not  scowling,  he's  not  smiling.  I  guess  his  expression  seems  to  say  to  the  kids,  &quot;I'm  ready  for  action  if  that's  what  you  really  want.&quot;  The  other  action  figure  is  the  Marquis  de  Rollebon,  the  quasi-  historical  character  that  Roquentin  fi-  nally  suspects  never  really  existed.  Rollebon  is  dressed  in  dark-green,  typ-  ical  eighteenth-century  coat  and  trou-  sers.  He's  also  crouched  and  ready  to  spring  into  action.  He's  bent  over  a  little  and  he's  sort  of  ugly:  don't  forget  that  Marie  Antoinette  called  him  &quot;dear  ape.&quot;  Rollebon  is  ready  to  roll.  Besides  the  action  figures,  we  also  have  these  simulated  pebbles.  There  are  eight  colors  and  we  think  that  kidswill  collect  them  all.  They're  molded  in  plastic,  and,  likeIsaid,  indifferent  colors.  But  each  one  looks  like  the  pebble  Roquentin  picked  up-that  was  the  first  time  he  was  overcome  by  an  overpowering  sense  of  disgust.  We  call  them  the  &quot;Disgust  Pebbles.&quot;  We  also  have  the  &quot;Disgust  Mirror.&quot;  This  is  just  like  the  one  in  the  movie.  We  hope  that  kids  will  be  looking  at  themselves  in  these  mirrors  all  summer,  just  like  Roquentin,  and  compre-  hending  absolutely  nothing  about  what  they  are  as  human  beings.  Maybe  it  will  catch  on  and  maybe  it  won't.  But  we're  gambling  that  it  will.  Of  course  we  also  have  the  &quot;Nausea  Caf\xc3\xa9,&quot;  with  miniature  &quot;Nausea  Peo-  ple.&quot;  The  customers  are  all  carefully  crafted  so  that  their  tiny  faces  are  just  an  accumulation  of  details-eyes,  ears,  nose,  hat  (three  have  hats),  mouth-all  totally  devoid  of  meaning.  HE  T-shirts  represent  a  consid-  erable  part  of  all  this.  &quot;Tur  Ac-  onizmcg  ora  Sunpay  ArtrErR-  NOON  might  be  the  major  shirt.  A  lot  of  people  seem  tolike  the  one  with  Roquentin  overcome  by  a  momentary  sense  of  bliss.  This  will  be  next  summer  and  that  might  be  big  with  vacationers.  You'll  also  beseeing  a  lot  of  young  people  wearing  big  white  T-shirts  with  black  block  letters:  &quot;Tur  Bopy  Lives  Aron\xc2\xae.&quot;  That  much  is  pretty  certain.  Let's  talk  about  the  poster,  which  is  quite  remarkable.  All  black,  just  Hamilton's  face  against  a  black  back-  ground  and  down  in  the  lower  right-  hand  corner  in  yellow:  (&quot;I  Exist&quot;).  It's  going  to  get  people.  We're  going  to  see  that  in  a  few  dorms.  The  soundtrack  is  a  major  thing.  All  of  the  people  we  had  on  this  were  wonderful.  M.  C.  Hammer's  title  tune,  &quot;Gushing  Toward  the  Sky,&quot;  will  probably  get  a  lot  of  airplay.  Personal-  ly,  I  love  Kid  Creole  and  the  Coconuts  doing  &quot;I  Like  You  Physically,  But  You  Do  Not  Exist  Intellectually.&quot;  And  then  there's  the  great  rap  song-  Run-D.M.C.  expect  to  go  platinum  with  this  by  the  second  week-of  &quot;This  Thing  I'm  Sittin'  On,&quot;  which,  of  course,  comes  straight  from  the  script,  and,  before  that,  the  novel:  &quot;This  thing  I'm  sitting  on  ...  is  called  a  seat.&quot;  Authenticity.  This  is  done  for  love,  so  why  not  get  it  right?  Did  I  mention  &quot;Viscous  Stuff&quot;?  In  &quot;Nausea,&quot;  if  you  recall,  things  that  are  viscous  absorb  our  humanity.  This  is  available  in  tubes.  OW  that  &quot;Nausea:  The  Picture&quot;  is  history,  I  have  to  say  that  it's  hard  to  believe  it  ever  happened.  Right  from  the  start,  there  was  this  sense  of  uselessness  about  the  whole  thing.  On  the  very  first  day  of  shooting,  everybody  was  sort  of  looking  at  the  floor,  and  when  the  director  asked  for  our  atten-  tion  he  got  upand  said,  &quot;I  am  free:  there  is  absolutely  no  more  reason  for  living,&quot;  and  all  of  us,  right  down  to  the  grips,  nodded  in  understanding.  This  is  the  spirit  of  &quot;Nausea,&quot;  and  I  think  you'll  see  that  when  you  go  and  see  the  movie.  Or  don't  go,  as  the  case  may  be.  As  Jean-Paul  says,  you  have  the  right  to  exist  and  therefore  the  right  not  to  do  anything  at  all.  "