 b' IT  was  January  again; thin  and  pale  and  cold  again;  I  was  making  a  new  beginning  again.  I  had  been  a  girl  of  whom  certain  things  were  expected,  none  of  them  too  bad:  a  career  as  a  nurse,  for  example;  a  sense  of  duty  to  my  parents;  obedience  to  the  lawand  worship  of  convention.  But  in  one  year  of  being  away  from  home,  that  girl  had  gone  out  of  exis-  tence.  The  person  I  had  become  I  did  not  know  very  well.  Oh,  on  the  outside  everything  was  familiar.  My  hair  was  the  same,  though  now  I  wore  it  cut  close  to  my  head,  and  this  made  my  face  seem  almost  perfectly  round,  and  so  for  the  first  time  ever  I  entertained  the  idea  that  I  might  actually  be  beautiful.  I  knew  that  if  I  ever  decided  I  was  beautiful  I  would  not  make  too  big  a  thing  of  it.  My  eyes  were  the  same.  My  ears  were  the  same.  The  other  impor-  tant  things  about  me  were  the  same.  But  the  things  I  could  not  see  about  myself,  the  things  I  could  not  put  my  hands  on-those  things  had  changed,  and  I  did  not  yet  know  them  well.  I  understood  that  I  was  inventing  my-  self,  and  that  I  was  doing  this  more  in  the  way  of  a  painter  than  in  the  way  of  a  scientist.  I  could  not  count  on  preci-  sion  or  calculation;  I  could  only  count  on  intuition.  I  did  not  have  anything   the  world  was  exactly  in  mind,  but  when  the  picture  was  complete  I  would  know.  I  did  not  have  position,  I  did  not  have  money  at  my  disposal.  I  had  memory,  I  had  anger,  I  had  despair.  I  was  born  on  an  island,  a  very  small  island,  twelve  miles  long  and  eight  miles  wide;  yet  when  I  left  it  at  nine-  teen  years  of  age  I  had  never  set  foot  on  three-quarters  of  it.  I  had  recently  met  someone  who  was  born  on  the  other  side  of  the  world  from  me  but  had  visited  this  island  on  which  my  family  had  lived  for  generations;  this  person,  a  woman,  said  to  me,  &quot;What  a  beautiful  place,&quot;  and  she  named  a  village  by  the  sea  and  then  wenton  to  describe  a  view  that  was  unknown  to  me.  At  the  time  I  was  so  ashamed  I  could  hardly  make  a  reply,  for  I  had  come  to  believe  that  people  in  my  position  in  the  world  should  know  everything  about  the  place  they  are  from.  I  knew  this:  it  was  discovered  by  Christopher  [REDACTED]  in  1493;  [REDACTED]  never  set  foot  there  but  only  named  it  in  passing,  after  a  church  in  537061696e.  He  could  not  have  known  that  he  would  have  so  many  things  to  name,  and  I  imagined  how  hard  he  had  to  rack  his  brain  after  he  ran  out  of  names  honoring  his  benefac-  tors,  the  saints  he  cherished,  events  important  to  him.  A  task  like  that  would  have  killed  a  thoughtful  person,but  he  went  on  to  live  a  very  long  life.  I  had  realized  that  theorigin  of  my  presence  on  the  island-my  ancestral  history-was  the  result  of  a  foul  deed;  but  that  was  not  what  made  me,  at  fourteen  or  so,  stand  up  in  school  choir  practice  and  say  that  I  did  not  wish  to  sing  &quot;Rule  [REDACTED]!  [REDACTED]  rule  the  waves;  /  Britons  never  will  be  slaves,&quot;  that  I  was  not  a  Briton  and  that  until  not  too  long  ago  I  would  have  been  a  slave.  My  action  did  not  create  a  scandal;  instead,  my  choir  mis-  tress  only  wondered  if  all  their  efforts  to  civilize  me  over  the  years  would  come  to  nothing  in  the  end.  At  the  time,  my  reasons  were  quite  straight-  forward:  I  disliked  the  descendants  of  the  Britons  for  being  unbeautiful,  for  not  cooking  food  well,  for  wearing  ugly  clothes,  for  not  liking  to  really  dance,  and  for  not  liking  real  music.  If  only  we  had  been  ruled  by  the  French:  they  were  prettier,  much  happier  in  appearance,  so  much  more  the  kind  of  people  I  would  have  enjoyed  being  around.  I  once  had  a  pen  pal  on  a  neighboring  island,  a  French  island,  and  even  though  I  could  see  her  island  from  mine,  when  we  sent  correspon-  dence  to  each  other  it  had  to  go  to  the  ruler  country,  thousands  of  miles  away,  before  reaching  its  destination.  The  stamps  on  her  letter  were  always  can-  celled  with  the  French  words  for  lib-  erty,  equality,  and  fraternity;  on  mine  were  no  such  words,  only  the  image  of  a  stony-face,  sour-mouth  woman.  I  understand  the  situation  better  now;  I  understand  that,  in  spite  of  those  words,  my  pen  pal  and  I  were  in  the  same  boat;  but  still  I  think  those  words  have  a  better  ring  to  them  than  the  image  of  a  stony-face,  sour-mouth  woman.  One  day  I  was  a  child  and  then  I  was  not.  Everyone  told  me  this:  You  are  no  longer  a  child.  I  had  started  to  menstruate,  I  grew  breasts,  tufts  of  hair  appeared  under  my  arms  and  between  my  legs.  I  grew  taller  all  of  a  sudden,  and  it  was  hard  to  manage  so  much  new  height  all  at  once.  One  day  I  was  living  silently  in  a  personal  hell,  without  any-  one  to  tell  what  I  felt,  without  even  knowing  thatthe  feelings  I  had  were  possible  to  have;  and  then  one  day  I  was  not  living  like  that  at  all.  I  had  begun  tosee  the  past  like  this:  there  is  a  line;  you  can  draw  it  yourself,  or  sometimes  it  gets  drawn  for  you;  either  way,  there  itis,  your  past,  a  collection  of  people  ' b"you  used  to  be  and  things  you  used  to  do.  Your  past  is  the  person  you  no  longer  are,  the  situations  you  are  no  longer  in.  USED  to  be  nineteen;  I  used  to  live  in  the  household  of  Lewis  and  Mariah,  and  I  used  to  be  the  girl  who  took  care  of  their  four  children;  I  used  to  stand  over  the  children,  four  girls,  at  the  street  corner,  waiting  for  the  stoplight  to  change  color;  I  used  to  sit  on  a  lakeshore  with  them;  I  used  to  sit  in  the  kitchen,  with  the  inevitable  sun  streaming  through  the  window,  with  Mariah,  drinking  coffee  she  learned  to  make  in  [REDACTED],  and  trying  to  explain  to  myself,  by  speaking  to  Mariah,  how  I  got  to  feel  the  way  I  even  now  feel;  I  used  to  see  Mariah  with  happiness  an  essential  part  of  her  daily  existence,  and  then,  when  the  perfect  world  she  had  known  for  so  long  vanished  with-  out  warning,  I  saw  sadness  replace  it;  I  used  to  lie  naked  in  moonlight  with  a  boy  named  Hugh;  I  used  to  not  know  who  Lewis  was,  until  one  day  he  re-  vealed  himself  to  be  just  another  man,  an  ordinary  man,  when  I  saw  him  in  love  with  his  wife's  best  friend;  I  used  to  be  that  person,  and  I  used  to  be  in  those  situations.  That  was  how  I  had  spent  the  year  just  past.  One  day  I  was  living  in  the  large  apartment  of  Lewis  and  Mariah  (with-  out  Lewis,  of  course,  for  he  had  gone  to  live  somewhere  else  all  by  himself,  allowing  a  decent  amount  of  time  to  pass  before  hegave  Mariah  the  surprise  of  her  life:  he  had  fallen  out  of  love  with  her  because  he  had  fallen  in  love  with  her  best  friend,  Dinah),  and  the  next  day  I  was  not.  My  leaving  began  on  the  night  I  heard  my  father  had  died.  When  I  had  left  my  parents,  I  had  said  to  myself  that  I  never  wanted  to  see  them  again.  These  were  words  said  in  the  way  of  a  child;  for  a  child  might  want  someone  dead,  might  even  wish  to  do  the  deed  herself,  but  would  want  the  dead  per-  son  to  get  up  and  carry  on  as  before,  only  without  the  thing  that  made  the  child  wish  for  the  death  in  the  first  place.  I  had  wished  never  to  see  my  father  again,  and  my  wish  had  become  true:  I  would  never  see  my  father  again.  I  wondered  how  he  looked  in  the  coffin;  I  wondered  who  had  made  the  coffin  and  if  it  was  made  of  pine  or  mahogany;  I  wondered  if  he  had  been  buried  in  his  blue  serge  suit,  the  one  he     &quot;First  of  all,  let  me  say  yes,  &amp;  always  saved  for  the  special  occasion  that  never  seemed  to  come-perhaps  my  mother  would  have  thought  his  burial  was  the  special  occasion.  I  had  never  imagined  my  father  dying.  I  had  never  imagined  my  parents  dying.  When  I  told  Mariah  this,  she  said  that  no  one  ever  thinks  their  parents  will  die,  ever,  and  I  had  to  suppress  the  annoyance  I  felt  at  her  for  once  again  telling  me  about  everybody  when  I  told  her  something  about  myself.  Mariah  said  that  I  was  feeling  guilty.  Guilty!  I  had  always  thought  that  was  a  judg-  ment  passed  on  you  by  others,  and  so  it  was  new  to  me  that  it  could  bea  judgment  you  pass  on  yourself.  Guilty!  But  I  did  not  feel  like  a  murderer;  I  felt  like  Lucifer,  doomed  to  build  wrong  upon  wrong.  I  had  not  been  opening  the  letters  my  mother  had  been  sending  to  me  for  months.  In  them  she  tried  to  give  me  a  blow-by-blow  description  of  how  quickly  the  quality  of  her  life  had  dete-  riorated  since  I  had  left  her,  but  I  only  knew  this  afterward-after  I  had  learned  of  my  father's  death,  written  to  her  and  sent  her  money,  and  then  opened  the  letter  she  sent  in  reply.  For  if  I  had  seen  those  letters  sooner,  one  way  or  another  I  would  have  died.I  would  have  died  if  I  did  nothing;  I  would  have  died  if  I  did  something.  I  then  made  a  last  reply  to  her,  though  she  did  not  know  she  might  never  hear  from  me  again.  I  told  her  that  I  would  come  home  soon,  and  how  sorry  I  was  for  everything  that  had  happened  to  her.  I  did  not  say  that  I  loved  her.  I  could  not  say  that.  I  then  told  her  that  the  family  I  was  living  with  (Lewis  and  Mariah)  were  moving  to  another  part  of  town;  the  address  I  gave  her  was  one  I  made  up  off  the  top  of  my  head.  The  moment  I  did  that  was  the  moment  I  knew  I  would  soon  make  living  with  Lewis  and  Mariah  the  past.  After  that  the  days  went  by  too  slowly  and  too  quickly:  I  could  not  wait  to  put  this  period  of  my  life  behind  me,  and  each  moment  felt  like  a  ball  of  lead;  at  the  same  time,  I  wanted  to  under-  stand  everything  that  was  happening  to  me,  and  each  day  felt  like  a  minute.  It  was  gloomy  inside  the  house,  and  gloomy  outside,  too.  &quot;'The  holidays  are  coming,&quot;  Mariah  said.  &quot;'The  holidays  are  coming.&quot;  She  should  have  been  happy,  but  she  said  it  as  if  she  were  expecting  a  funeral.  The  skies  were  hard  and  gray;  it  rained,  and  the  rain  felt  like  small,  hard  nails;  the  sun  shone  " b"sometimes,  but  weakly,  as  if  it  held  a  grudge.  I  noticed  how  hard  and  cold  and  shut  up  tight  the  ground  was.  I  noticed  this  because  I  used  to  wish  it  would  just  open  up  and  take  me  in,  I  felt  so  bad.  If  I  dropped  dead  from  despair  as  I  was  crossing  the  street,  I  would  just  have  to  lie  there  in  the  cold.  The  ground  would  refuse  me.  To  die  in  the  cold  was  more  than  I  could  bear.  I  wanted  todie  in  a  hot  place.  The  only  hot  place  I  knew  was  my  home.  I  could  not  go  home,  and  so  I  could  not  die  yet.  When  I  told  Mariah  that  I  was  leaving,  she  said,  &quot;It's  not  ayear  yet.  You  are  supposed  to  stay  for  at  least  a  year.&quot;  Her  voice  was  full  of  anger,  but  I  ignored  it.  It's  always  hard  for  the  person  who  is  left  behind.  And  even  as  she  said  it  she  must  have  known  how  hollow  it  sounded,  for  it  was  only  a  matter  of  weeks  before  it  would  be  a  year  since  I  had  come  to  live  with  her.  The  reality  of  her  situation  was  now  clear  to  her:  she  was  a  woman  whose  husband  had  betrayed  her.  I  wanted  to  say  this  to  her:  &quot;Your  situation  is  an  everyday  thing.  Men  behave  in  this  way  all  the  time.  The  ones  who  do  not  behave  in  this  way  arethe  exceptions  to  the  rule.&quot;  But  I  knew  what  her  re-  sponse  would  have  been.  She  would  have  said,  &quot;W  hat  a  clich\xc3\xa9.&quot;  She  would  have  said,  &quot;What  do  you  know  about  these  things?&quot;  And  she  would  have  been  right;  it  was  a  clich\xc3\xa9,  and  I  had  no  personal  experience  of  a  thing  like  that.  But  all  the  same,  where  I  came  from  every  woman  knew  this  clich\xc3\xa9,  and  a  man  like  Lewis  would  not  have  been  a  surprise;  his  behavior  would  not  have  cast  a  pall  over  any  woman's  life.  It  was  expected.  Everybody  knew  that  men  have  no  morals,  that  they  do  not  know  how  to  behave,  that  they  do  not  know  how  to  treat  other  people.  It  was  why  men  like  laws  so  much;  it  was  why  they  had  to  invent  such  things-they  need  a  guide.  When  they  are  not  sure  what  to  do,  they  consult  this  guide.  If  the  guide  gives  them  advice  they  don't  like,  they  change  theguide.  This  was  something  I  knew;  why  didn't  Mariah  know  it,  also?  And  if  I  were  to  tell  it  to  her  she  would  only  show  me  a  book  she  had  somewhere  which  contradicted  ev-  erything  I  said-a  book  most  likely  written  by  a  woman  who  understood  absolutely  nothing.  The  holidays  came,  and  they  did  feel  like  a  funeral,  for  so  many  things  had  died.  For  the  children's  sake,  she  and  Lewis  put  up  a  good  front.  He  came  and  went,  doing  all  the  things  he  would  have  done  if  he  were  still  living  with  them.  He  bought  the  fir  tree,  bought  the  children  the  presents  they  wanted,  bought  Mariah  a  coat  made  up  from  the  skins  of  small  pesty  animals  who lived  in  the  ground.  She,  of  course,  hated  it,  but  for  appearances'  sake  kept  her  opinion  to  herself.  He  must  have  forgotten  that  she  was  not  the  sort  of  person  who  would  wear  theskin  of  another  being  if  she  could  help  it.  Or  perhaps  in  the  rush  of  things  he  gave  his  old  love  his  new  love's  present.  Mariah  gave  me  a  necklace  made  up  of  pretty  porcelain  beads  and  small  pol-  ished  balls  of  wood.  She  said  it  was  the  handiwork  of  someone  in  Africa.  It  was  the  most  beautiful  thing  anyone  had  ever  given  me.  The  New  Year  came,  and  I  was  going  somewhere  new  again.  I  gath-  ered  my  things  together;  I  had  a  lot  more  than  when  I  first  came.  I  had  new  clothes,  all  better  suited  to  this  new  climate  I  now  lived  in.  I  had  a  camera  and  prints  of  the  photographs  I  had  taken,  prints  I  had  made  myself.  But  mostly  I  had  books-so  many  books,  and  they  were  mine;  I  would  not  have  to  part  with  them.  It  had  always  been  a  dream  of  mine  tojust  own  a  lot  of  books,  to  never  part  with  a  book  once  I  had  read  it.  So  there  they  were,  resting  nicelyin  small  boxes-my  own  books,  the  books  that  I  had  read.  Mariah  spoke  to  me  harshly  all  the  time  now,  and  she  began  to  make  up  rules  which  she  insisted  that  I  follow;  and  I  did,  for  after  all  what  else  could  she  do?  It  was  a  last  resort  for  her-insist-  ing  that  I  be  the  servant  and  she  the  master.  She  used  to  insist  that  we  be  friends,  but  that  had  ap-  parently  not  worked  out  very  well,  for  now  I  was  leaving.  The  master  business  did  not  become  her  at  all,  and  it  made  me  sad  tosee  her  that  way.  Still,  it  made  me  remember  what  my  mother  had  said  to  me  many  times:  for  my  whole  life  I  should  make  sure  the  roof  over  my  head  was  my  own;  such  a  thing  was  important,  especially  if  you  were  a  woman.  On  the  day  I  actually  left,  there  was  no  sun;  the  sky  had  shut  it  out  tightly.  It  was  a  Satur-  day.  Lewis  had  taken  the  children  to  eat  snails  at  a  French  restaurant.  All  " b"four  of  them  liked  such  things-and  just  as  well,  for  that  went  with  the  life  they  were  expected  to  lead  eventually.  Mariah  helped  me  put  my  things  in  a  taxi.  It  was  a  cold  goodbye  on  her  part.  Her  voice  and  her  face  were  stony.  She  did  not  hug  me.  I  did  not  take  any  of  this  personally;  someday  we  would  be  friends  again.  I  was  numb,  but  it  was  from  not  knowing  just  what  this  new  life  would  hold  for  me.  THE  next  day  I  woke  up  in  a  new  bed,  and  it  was  my  own.  I  had  bought  it  with  my  money.  The  roof  over  my  head  was  my  own-that  is,  as  long  asI  could  afford  to  pay  the  rent  for  it.  The  curtains  at  my  windows  had  loud,  showy  flowers  printed  on  them;  I  had  chosen  this  pattern  over  a  calico  that  the  lady  in  the  cloth  store  had  recommended.  It  did  look  vulgar  in  this  climate,  but  it  would  have  been  just  right  in  the  climate  I  came  from.  Through  the  curtains  I  could  see  that  the  day  was  just  like  the  one  before:  gray,  the  sky  shut  up  tight,  the  sun  locked  out.  I  knew  then  that  even  though  I  would  always  notice  the  ab-  sence  or  presence  of  the  sun,  even  though  I  would  always  prefer  a  sunny  day  to  a  day  without  sun,  I  would  get  used  to  it;  I  wouldn't  make  an  impor-  tant  decision  based  on  the  weather.  It  was  Peggy  who  had  found  the  apartment.  We  were  then  still  best  friends.  We  had  nothing  in  common  except  that  we  felt  at  ease  in  each  other's  company.  From  the  moment  we  met  we  had  recognized  in  each  other  the  same  restlessness,  the  same  dissatis-  faction  with  our  surroundings,  the  same  skin-doesn't-fit-ness.  That  was  asfar  as  it  went.  We  had  accepted  each  other's  shortcomings  and  differences;  then,  just  when  we  began  to  feel  the  yoke  of  each  other's  companionship,  just  when  we  began  to  feel  the  begin-  nings  of  what  might  eventually  lead  to  lifelong  loathing,  we  decided  to  move  in  together.  It  could  have  been  worse.  People  marry  at  times  like  that;  they  then  have  ten  children,  live  under  the  same  roof  for  years  and  years,  eventu-  ally  die  and  arrange  to  be  buried  side  by  side.  We  only  signed  our  names  to  a  two-year  lease.  It  was  a  Sunday.  I  could  hear  church  bells  ringing.  I  had  not  been  to  church  in  over  a  year-not  since  leaving  home.  I  supposed  I  still  believed  in  God;  after  all,  what  choice  did  I  have?  I  could  not  ask  God  what  to  do,  since  the  answer,  I  was  sure,  would  not  suit  me.  I  could  do  what  suited  me  now,  as  long  as  I  could  pay  for  it.  &quot;As  long  as  I  could  pay  for  it.&quot;  That  phrase  soon  became  the  tail  that  wagged  my  dog.  If  I  had  died  then,  it  should  have  been  my  epitaph.  Peggy,  who  had  been  living  with  her  parents  all  along,  decided  not  to  do  so  anymore.  She  said  that  she  was  sick  of  them.  She  said  it  as  if  her  parents  were  a  style  of  dressing  she  had  outgrown.  I  had  never  heard  anyone  speak  of  their  parents  in  this  way;  I  never  even  knew  you  could  make  them  seem  trivial,  trinketlike,  mere  pests.  I  was  not  sure  whether  to  admire  her  or  feel  sorry  for  her  because  she  hadn't  got  parents  whose  personalities  were  on  a  larger  scale,  parents  whose  presence  you  are  reminded  of  with  each  breath  you  take.  Someone  had  told  Peggy  about  this  vacancy;  it  had  two  bedrooms,  a  sitting  room,  a  kitchen,  and  a  bathroom.  I  had  spent  my  entire  life  not  knowing  the  luxury  of  plumbing,  hot  and  cold  tap  water,  the  privacy  to  be  had  by  closing  the  door  and  taking  off  your  clothes  and  stepping  into  a  bathtub  and  staying  there  for  as  long  as  it  pleased  you.  I  could  very  well  have  gone  through  my  entire  life  without  knowledge  of  such  things,  and  on  my  list  of  unhappinesses  this  would  not  have  made  an  appear-  ance.  But  not  so  anymore.  When  I  saw  that  the  apartment  had  only  one  bath-  room,  I  made  note  of  it  with  disap-  pointment.  At  Mariah  and  Lewis's  house  I  had  my  own  bathroom,  and  my  smells  were  known  only  to  me.  Here  the  windows  in  the  back  had  bars-not  the  decorative  kind  to  keep  children  from  falling  out,  but  the  crisscross  kind  to  keep  people  who  meant  us  no  good  from  coming  in;  the  windows  in  the  front  allowed  the  sun,  when  it  shone,  to  come  in  plenty.  I  used  to  lie  in  my  bed  at  home,  surrounded  by  all  the  things  they  say  make  for  a  contented  life-a  loving  family,  a  safe  full  of  food,  harmonious  surroundings-and  not  feel  contented.  I  longed  then  to  live  in  a  place  like  this:  bars  on  the  windows  to  keep  out  people  who  might  wish  to  do  me  harm,  an  unfriendly  climate,  uncertainty  at  every  turn.  History  is  full  of  great  events;  when  the  great  events  are  said  and  done,  there  will  always  be  someone,  a  little  person,  un-  happy,  dissatisfied,  discontented,  feel-  ing  not  at  home  in  her  own  skin,  ready  to  stir  up  a  whole  new  set  of  great  events  again.  I  was  not  such  a  person,  " b"able  to  put  in  motion  a  set  of  great  events,  but  I  understood  the  phenome-  non  all  the  same.  There  were  many  Sundays  when  I  wished  I  could  just  lie  in  bed  and  not  get  up  for  anything,  especially  not  for  church.  It  was  a  Sunday,  I  was  lying  in  bed,  I  would  get  up  only  if  I  wished  to.  On  the  wall  in  front  of  me  was  a  photograph  I  had  taken  of  a  body  of  water,  the  lake  where  I  had  spent  the  summer;  there  was  nothing  in  the  pic-  ture-there  were  no  boats,  no  people,  no  signs  of  life-except  the  water,  its  surface  of  uniformlyshaped  ripplets,  its  depths  dark,  treacherous,  and  un-  inviting.  It  was  the  opposite  of  the  water  I  was  surrounded  by  on  the  island  where  I  grew  up.  That  water  was  three  shades  of  blue,  calm,  invit-  ing,  warm.  I  took  it  for  granted,  so  much  sothat  it  became  one  of  the  things  I  cursed.  Mariah  had  given  me  a  small  desk  with  many  drawers.  I  had  placed  it  near  my  bed,  with  a  lamp  on  it.  I  reached  into  thetop  drawer  and  re-  trieved  a  small  stack  of  official  docu-  ments:  my  passport,  my  immigration  card,  my  permission-to-work  card,  my  birth  certificate,  and  a  copy  of  the  lease  to  the  apartment.  These  documents  showed  everything  about  me,  and  yet  they  showed  nothing  about  me.  They  showed  where  I  was  born.  They  showed  that  I  was  born  on  the  twenty-  fifth  of  May,  1949.  They  showed  how  tall  I  was.  They  showed  that  my  skin  and  my  eyes  were  the  same  color,  brown,  though  they  did  not  say  if  the  shades  were  identical.  These  docu-  ments  all  said  that  my  name  was  Lucy  -Lucy  Josephine  Warner.  I  used  to  hate  all  three  of  those  names.  I  was  named  Josephine  after  my  mother's  uncle  Mr.  Joseph,  because  he  was  rich,  from  money  he  had  made  in  sugar  in  43756261,  and  it  was  thought  that  he  would  remember  the  honor  and  leave  something  for  me  in  his  will.  But  when  he  died  it  was  discovered  that  he  had  lost  his  fortunea  while  before  and  did  not  even  have  a  roof  over  his  head;  he  had  been  livingin  an  old  tomb  in  the  Anglican  churchyard.  The  &quot;Warner&quot;  must  have  come  from  the  Englishman  who  owned  my  ancestors  when  they  were  slaves;  no  one  really  knew,  and  I  could  hardly  blame  them  for  not  caring  to  find  out.  The  &quot;Lucy&quot;  was  the  only  part  of  my  name  that  I  would  have  cared  to  hold  on  to.  When  I  had  first  begun  to  think  ofthe  significance  of  my  three  names,  I  disliked  the  name  Lucy,  because  it  seemed  slight,  without  sub-  stance,  not  at  all  the  person  I  thought  I  would  liketo  be  even  then.  In  my  own  mind,  I  called  myself  other  names:  Emily,  [REDACTED],  Jane.  They  were  the  names  of  the  authoresses  whose  books  I  loved.  I  eventually  settled  on  the  name  Enid,  after  the  authoress  Enid  Blyton,  because  that  name  seemed  the  most  unusual  of  all  the  names  I  thought  of.  One  day  when  it  was  firm  in  my  mind  that  the  name  Enid  was  the  name  I  wanted  to  be  known  by,I  told  my  mother.  I  said,  &quot;I  do  not  like  my  name,  Lucy.  I  want  to  change  it  to  Enid.  I  like  that  name  better.&quot;  The  moment  I  said  this,  she  immediately  turned  a  dark  color,  the  color  of  boiling  blood.  She  turned  toward  me,  and  she  was  no  longer  my  mother-she  was  a  ball  of  fury,  large,  like  a  god.  I  wondered  then,  for  the  millionth  time,  how  it  came  to  be  that  of  all  the  mothers  in  the  world  mine  was  not  an  ordinary  human  being  but  something  from  an  ancient  book.  Not  long  after  that  I  learned,  through  my  usual  habitof  eavesdrop-  ping  on  conversations  between  my  mother  and  her  friends,  that  a  woman  with  whom  my  father  had  a  child  and  who  had  tried  to  kill  my  motherand  me  through  Obeah  was  named  Enid.  I  had  never  heard  of  that  Enid  before.  When  the  mystery  of  my  mother's  be-  havior  became  clear  to  me,  I  felt  ashamed  of  the  mistake  I  had  made.  Even  to  hurt  my  mother  I  would  not  have  wanted  the  same  name  as  the  woman  who  had  tried  to  kill  my  mother  and  me.  Much  later,  when  I  no  longer  cared  how  I  made  her  feel,  I  brought  up  the  question  of  my  name  again.  My  mother  was  stooped  over  a  bowl  of  fish,  clean-  ing  and  seasoning  them  in  preparation  for  our  supper.  She  was  pregnant  with  the  last  of  her  children.  She  did  not  want  to  be  pregnant  and  three  times  had  tried  to  throw  away  the  child,  but  all  her  methods  had  failed,  and  she  remained  pregnant.  An  old  brown-  and-white  doghadbecome  attached  to  her.  We  didn't  know  where  the  dog  had  came  from-only  that  whenever  my  mother  left  ourhouse  it  was  always  waiting  outside  and  would  follow  only  her.  She  did  not  like  animals;  where  she  came  from,  sometimes  when  someone  wanted  to  harm  someone  else  they  sent  the  harm  in  the  shape  of  an  animal.  When  she  saw  the  dog  followher  around,  she  was  sure  it  was  something  bad,  and  so  she  tried  everything  to  get  rid  of  it,  but  the  dog  would  not  go  away.  She  stopped  trying  to  get  rid  of  the  dog  the  day  she  realized  that  the  " b"dog  was  pregnant  also.  It  was  funny  to  see  them  walking  down  the  street  to-  gether-two  female  beings,  a  human  and  a  dog,both  of  them  pregnant.  They  went  everywhere  together,  and  they  grew  to  look  alike:  thin,  shriv-  elled,  undernourished  (my  mother  had  no  appetite),  unmaternal.  They  both  became  bad-tempered  and  would  snarl  at  anyone  who  did  anything  they  found  offensive.  As  my  mother  was  cleaning  the  fish,  the  dog  was  standing  nearby,  snapping  at  flies  that  were  bothering  her.  They  made  such  a  picture:  the  dead  fish,  the  flies,  the  pregnant  wom-  an,  the  pregnant  dog.  It  was  this  sight  that  was  before  me  when  I  asked  my  mother  why  she  had  named  me  Lucy.  The  first  time  I  asked,  she  made  no  reply,  pretending  that  she  had  not  heard  me.  I  asked  again,  and  this  time  under  her  breath  she  said,  &quot;I  named  you  after  Satan  himself.  Lucy,  short  for  Lucifer.  What  a  botheration  from  the  moment  you  were  conceived.&quot;  I  not  only  heard  it  quite  clearly  when  she  said  it  but  I  heard  the  words  before  they  came  out  of  her  mouth.  And  yet  I  said,  &quot;What  did  you  say?&quot;  But  she  wouldn't  repeat  it;  she  only  said,  &quot;Why  do  you  torment  me  so?&quot;  and  wouldn't  speak  to  me  anymore.  In  the  minute  or  so  it  took  for  all  of  this  to  transpire,  I  went  from  feeling  burdened  and  old  -Mark  Jarman  and  tired  to  feeling  light,  new,  clean.  I  was  transformed  from  failure  to  tri-  umph.  It  was  the  moment  I  knew  who  I  was.  When  I  was  quite  young  and  just  being  taught  to  read,  the  books  I  was  taught  to  read  from  were  the  Bible,  \xc2\xab&quot;Paradise  Lost,&quot;  and  some  plays  by  William  Shakespeare.  I  knew  well  the  book  of  Genesis,  and  from  time  to  time  I  had  been  made  to  memorize  parts  of  &quot;Paradise  Lost.&quot;  The  stories  of  the  fallen  were  well  known  to  me,  but  I  had  not  known  that  my  own  situation  could  even  distantly  be  related  to  them.  Lucy,  a  girl's  name  for  Lucifer.  That  my  mother  would  have  found  me  devil-  like  did  not  surprise  me,  for  I  often  thought  of  her  as  godlike,  and  are  not  the  children  of  gods  devils?  I  did  not  grow  to  like  the  name  Lucy-I  would  have  much  preferred  to  be  called  Luci-  fer  outright-but  whenever  I  saw  my  name  I  always  reached  out  to  give  it  a  strong  embrace.  GOT  out  of  bed  and  stood  on  an  old  rug  Mariah  had  given  me.  I  wanted  to  stretch  my  arms  up  and  out,  but  the  room  was  cold,  so  I  hugged  myself.  I  walked  through  the  apart-  ment.  Peggy  was  still  asleep  in  her  room;  I  could  hear  her  snoring  through  her  closed  door.  She  had  once  gone  to  church  every  Sunday  morning  with  her parents,  and  now  said  she  would  never  do  that  again.  In  the  bathroom  I  looked  at  my  face  in  the  mirror.  I  was  twenty  years  old-not  a  long  time  to  be  alive  -and  yet  there  was  not  an  ounce  of  innocence  on  my  face.  If  I  did  not  know  everything  yet,  I  would  not  be  afraid  to  know  everything  as  it  came  up.  That  life  might  be  cold  and  hard  would  not  surprise  me.  I  went  to  stare  out  the  front  window.  When  I  looked  down,  I  could  see  people,  not  as  many  as  on  a  weekday,  bustling  about.  I  could  see  the  roofs  of  other  buildings  far  away.  I  could  not  see  any  trees.  Everything  I  could  see  looked  unreal  to  me;  everything  I  could  see  made  me  feel  I  would  never  be  part  of  it,  never  penetrate  to  the  inside,  never  be  taken  in.  A  building  across  the  way  had  a  tower  with  a  clock.  I  stared  at  the  clock  for  a  long  time  before  I  realized  that  it  was  broken,  and  it  made  me  even  more  conscious  of  a  feeling  I  had  constantly  now:  my  sense  of  time  had  changed,  and  I  did  not  know  if  the  day  went  by  too  quickly  or  too  slowly.  Peggy  came  to  look  out  the  window,  too.  Was  she  seeing  the  same  things  as  we  looked  out  on  the  same  view?  Probably  not.  In  the  less  than  twenty-  four  hours  we  had  been  together  under  the  same  roof,  our  differences  had  been  piling  up.  She  preferred  food  that  came  in  a  tin,  or  already  prepared,  to  food  she  had  to  cook  herself.  In  general,  she  preferred  having  things  done  for  her.  She  did  not  even  know  how  to  sew  on  a  button.  As  she  stood  next  to  me  at  the  window,  she  smelled  of  cigarettes  and  old  food;  she  had  not  yet  taken  a  bath  or  brushed  her  teeth.  She  rested  her  head  on  my  shoulder  and  said,  &quot;Can  you  believe  this?  Can  you  believe  we  did  it?&quot;  Her  hair  smelled  of  lemons-not  real  lemons,  not  lemons  asI  knew  them  to  smell,  not  the  sort  of  lemons  that  grew  in  my  yard  at  home,  but  artificial  lemons,  made  up  in  a  laboratory.  Peggy  did  not  know  what  a  real  lemon  smelled  like.  How  am  I  going  to  get  out  of  this?  -the  thought  was  welling  up  inside  me,  but  I  quickly  placed  a  big  rock  on  top  of  it.  She  lit  a  cigarette;  I  wished  she  had  not  done  that.  She  wanted  to  make  us  cups  of  instant  coffee,  but  I  made  us  coffee  with  steaming  hot  milk,  the  way  Mariah  had  shown  me.  The  afternoon  passed.  For  a  very  long  mo-  ment,  I  wondered  what  my  mother  was  doing  just  then,  and  I  saw  her  face;  it  " b" was  the  face  she  used  to  have  when  she  loved  me  without  reservation.  Early  that  evening,  Paul  came  by  to  see  the  apartment  for  the  first  time  and  to  take  us  out  to  dinner.  He  brought  us  a  large  bouquet  of  small  yellow  roses,  and  hegave  me  a  photograph  he  had  taken  of  me  standing  over  a  boiling  pot  of  food.  In  the  picture  I  was  naked  from  the  waist  up;  a  piece  of  cloth,  wrapped  around  me,  covered  me  from  the  waist  down.  That  was  the  moment  he  got  the  idea  he  possessed  me  in  a  certain  way,  and  that  was  the  moment  I  grew  tired  of  him.  I  had  been  singing  a  song  out  loud.  The  words  were:  &quot;Your  crazy,  crazy  love  /  Is  what  I  am  dreaming  of.&quot;  He  thought  I  was  in  a  certain  state  of  mind,  having  to  do  only  with  him.  But  it  was  just  a  song  I  was  singing;  I  meant  nothing  at  all.  He  kissed  me  now  inthat  possessive  way,  lingering  over  my  mouth,  pressing  my  whole  body  into  his;  and  though  I  was  not  unmoved,  it  was  not  as  special  as  he  believed.  I  knew  him  better  than  he  realized.  He  loved  ruins;  he  loved  the  past  but  only  if  it  had  ended  on  a  sad  note,  from  a  lofty  beginning  to  a  grad-  ual,  rotten  decline;  he  loved  things  that  came  from  far  away  andhad  a  mysteri-  ous  history.  I  could  have  told  him  that  I  had  sized  him  up,  but  it  was  not  as  if  he  were  going  to  matter  to  me  for  years  and  years  to  come.  He  took  us  to  a  restaurant  where  they  served  macaroni  in  many  sizes  and  shapes  and  with  all  sorts  of  sauces,  only  it  wasn't  called  macaroni  but  a  name  foreign  to  me,  and  so  I  felt  false  saying  it  that  way.  We  went  back  to  the  apartment,  and  I  realized  when  I  crossed  the  threshold  that  I  did  not  think  of  it  as  home,  only  as  the  place  where  I  now  lived.  Paul  stayed  in  my  bed  with  me.  I  had  never  had  a  man  stay  with  me  in  my  own  bed.  If  I  had  imagined  that  such  a  thing  would  be  a  desirable  landmark,  it  meant  not  much  to  me  now;  I  only  made  a  note  of  it.  N  that  Monday  I  started  a  new  job.  When  I  told  Mariah  that  I  was  leaving,  I  did  not  know  what  I  would  do.  In  fact  there  was  nothing  I  could  really  do.  I  had  no  experience,  except  being  a  student  and  a  nursemaid.  But  I  was  not  afraid.  Somehow  I  was  not  afraid.  Paul  knew  a  man  who  was  a  photographer;  he  took  pictures  of  food  and  other  things  with  life  no  longer  in  them,  and  the  photographs  were  sold  to  magazines.  He  said  he  would  pay  me  a  salary  for  answering  his  telephone,  taking  messages,  answering  correspon-  dence,  and  running  errands.  It  was  a  small  salary,  but  I  was  grateful  all  the  same.  Peggy  had  been  preparing  me  for  the  world  of  employee-employer  rela-  tionships.  She  had  shown  me  how  to  behave  when  applying  for  a  job,  how  to  show  the  proper  amount  of  respect,  submission,  eagerness  to  please,  even  though  in  my  heart  I  would  not  mean  any  of  those  things;  she  said  that  as  soon  as  I  had  thejob  and  was  safely  in  it,  I  could  let  my  real  personality  come  out.  I  was  not  opposed  to  deception,  but  I  would  have  preferred  not  to  start  out  that  way.  That  Monday  morning  was  like  many  to  come,  as  the  rest  of  the  day  was  like  many  to  come  also.  Peggy  and  I  silently  made  our  arrangements  for  time  in  the  bathroom,  time  in  front  of  the  full-length  mirror  in  the  passage-  way,  time  in  the  kitchen  preparing  our  breakfasts.  At  the  corner,  she  hugged  me,  kissed  my  cheek,  and  wished  me  good  luck.  Something  in  that  moment,  something  buried  underneath,  made  tears  come  to  our  eyes,  but  before  they  could  spill  out  we  turned  and  went  our  separate  ways.  I  walked  along  the  streets,  trying  to  hold  my  head  up  and  observe  everything,  wanting  to  remem-  ber  how  everything  looked  and  felt,  but  I  knew  even  then  that  the  things  that  would  stick  in  my  mind  later  on  were  not  the  things  my  eyes  were  fixed  on.  I  got  to  my  job,  I  said  good  morning  to  everyone,  I  sat  at  my  desk.  I  was  now  living  a  life  I  had  always  wanted  to  live.  I  was  living  apart  from  my  family  in  a  place  where  no  one  knew  much  about  me;  almost  no  one  knew  even  my  name,  and  I  was  free  more  or  " b"less  to  come  and  go  as  pleased  me.  The  feeling  of  bliss,  the  feeling  of  happi-  ness,  the  feeling  of  longing  fulfilled  that  I  had  thought  would  come  with  this  situation  was  nowhere  to  be  found  inside  me.  The  man  I  worked  for  was  named  Timothy  Simon.  I  called  him  Mr.  Si-  mon,  not  Tim,  or  even  Timothy,  as  he  begged  me  to  do;  this  madehim  not  call  me  &quot;honey,&quot;  or  &quot;darling,&quot;  the  two  endearments  he  used  when  addressing  any  woman.  He  was  afriend  of  my  friends,  he  said,  and  so  he  and  I  should  be  friends  also.  But  I  did  not  know  men  very  well  then;  the  things  I  did  know  about  them  were  not  so  very  good.  Friendship  is  a  simple  thing,  and  yet  complicated;  friendship  is  on  the  sur-  face,  something  natural,  something  taken  for  granted,  and  yet  underneath  one  could  find  worlds.  We  did  not  become  friends,  but  he  interested  me  all  the  same.  For  he  was  the  first  person  I  met  who  had  deeply  compromised  him-  self.  He  did  not  want  to  be  in  a  studio  taking  photographs  of  things  with  the  life  gone  out  of  them;  he  had  wanted  to  roam  the  world  taking  photographs  of  people  who  had  suffered  horribly  and  throughno  fault  of  their  own.  But  the  market  for  the  work  he  really  wanted  to  do  was  limited,  he  said,  and  this  work  that  he  did  paid  the  bills.  After  he  had  said  the  word  &quot;bills&quot;  he  pressed  his  lips  together  into  the  kind  of  smile  that  is  not  a  smile  at  all  but  a  way  of  warding  off  further  inquiry.  Each  morning  I  got  up  and  had  a  breakfast  that  was  becoming  flimsier  and  flimsier;  eventually  it  amounted  to  just  a  cup  of  tea.  Peggy  and  I  walked  together  asfaras  the  corner  and  then  parted,  she  heading  north,  I  south.  At  the  studio  I  performed  my  chores,  some  of  them  better  than  others;  my  typing  skills,  for  instance,  did  not  exist,  but  everyone  agreed  that  I  an-  swered  the  phone  better  than  it  had  ever  been  answered  before.  I  took  up  the  custom  of  drinking  coffee  all  the  time,  though  it  tasted  more  like  soiled  water  than  the  coffee  I  was  used  to.  I  ate  lunches  of  cold  moist  food,  sandwiches,  or  something  that  was  a  combination  of  gelatine  and  soured  milk;  I  was  sure  none  of  it  was  good  for  me,  and  I  liked  that.  Mr.  Simon  allowed  me  to  develop  film  in  his  darkroom  when  he  was  not  using  it.  I  did  this  in  my  own  time.  I  had  continued  to  take  photographs,  but  I  had  no  idea  why.  I  even  put  aside  a  small  amount  of  the  money  I  earned  so  that  I  could  take  a  course  at  night  at  a  nearby  university,  but  it  was  not  with  any  ideas  about  my  life  in  mind-it  was  only  that  I  enjoyed  doing  this.  Some-  times  I  would  stay  late  at  night,  work-  ing  in  the  darkroom,  trying  to  get  right  a  print  of  something  I  had  made  a  snapshot  of.  I  mostly  liked  to  take  pictures  of  people  walking  on  the  street.  They  were  not  pictures  of  individuals,  just  scenes  of  people  walking  about,  hurrying  to  somewhere.  I  did  not  know  them,  and  I  did  not  care  to.  I  would  try  and  try  to  make  a  print  that  made  more  beautiful  the  thing  I  thought  I  had  seen,  that  would  reveal  to  me  some  of  the  things  I  had  not  seen,  but  I  did  not  succeed.  I  would  walk  home  alone  at  night,  the  air  a  little  thicker,  a  little  warmer  than  when  I  had  first  started  on  this  new  phase  of  my  life,  for  the  winter  had  gone  away.  At  home  Peggy  was  al-  ready  in  her  robe,  her  hair  washed  and  smelling  of  that  false  lemon  scent.  She  washed  her  hair  every  night  and  then  slept  with  it  wet  to  get  an  effect  she  wanted  the  next  morning.  It  was  after  the  first  time  I  had  come  home  and  met  her  likethis  that  she  had  told  me  she  hoped  to  go  to  school  to  study  hair-  dressing  and  beauty  secrets.  The  way  sheput  it,  though,  I  found  very  touch-  ing,  for  she  made  it  sound  as  if  she  were  really  going  into  public  service.  I  knew  then  that  I  could  never  discuss  with  her  my  printmaking  difficulties.  Sometimes  Paul  would  be  there  waiting  for  me;  he  waited  for  me  in  my  bed,  because  Peggy  felt  his  presence  encroached  on  her  privacy.  I  knew  just  what  she  meant.  His  presence  in  my  bed  was  often  not  what  I  wanted  at  all,  but  unless  a  final  goodbye  came  from  him  I  had  had  enough  of  partings  just  now.  WAS  alone  in  the  world.  It  was  not  a  small  accomplishment.  I  thought  I  would  die  doing  it.  I  was  not  happy,  but  that  seemed  too  much  to  ask  for.  I  had  seen  Mariah.  She  had  asked  me  to  come  and  have  dinner  with  her.  We  were  friends  again;  we  said  how  much  we  missed  each  other's  company.  She  looked  even  more  thin  than  usual.  She  was  alone,  and  she  felt  lonely.  She  lived  with  her  four  children,  but  children  are  not  companions.  She  was  going  away,  she  said,  far  away,  to  live  in  a  place  of  uncommon  natural  beauty.  Everyone  who  lived  in  this  place,  she  said,  was  filled  with  love  and  trust  and  greeted  " b'each  other  with  the  word  &quot;Peace.&quot;  We  sat  on  the  floor  and  ate  our  food.  Around  us  were  some  of  the  remains  of  her  marriage:  wine  and  water  goblets  made  from  crystal,  china  plates  deco-  rated  with  real  gold  around  the  edges,  real  silverware.  She  was  giving  all  of  this  away,  along  with  many  other  things  from  her  married  life.  She  told  me  to  take  anything  I  wanted,  but  I  wanted  nothing.  I  could  not  imagine  living  with  any  of  it;  everything  she  had  reminded  me,  as  it  must  have  re-  minded  her,  too,  of  the  weight  of  the  world.  As  a  present,  she  gave  me  a  notebook  she  had  bought  in  4974616c79  a  long  time  before.  She  found  it  while  going  through  her  old  things.  The  cover  was  of  leather,  dyed  blood  red,  and  the  pages  were  white  and  smooth,  like  milk.  Around  the  time  I  was  leaving  her  for  the  life  I  now  led,  I  had  said  to  her  that  from  then  on  my  life  would  be  like  a  book  of  blank  pages.  As  she  gave  me  the  book,  she  reminded  me  of  that;  and  in  the  way  so  typical  of  her,  the  way  that  I  had  come  to  love,  she  spoke  of  women,  journals,  and,  of  course,  history.  When  we  said  goodbye,  I  did  not  know  if  I  would  ever  see  her  again.  I  was  alone  at  home  one  night.  Peg-  gy  was  on  an  outing  by  herself.  Paul  was  on  an  outing  by  himself.  I  had  noticed  that  this  happened  more  and  more;  the  two  of  them  were  busy  at  something,  and  I  suspected  it  was  with  each  other.  I  only  hoped  they  would  not  get  angry  and  disrupt  my  life  when  they  realized  I  did  not  care.  I  did  all  sorts  of  little  things:  I  washed  my  underwear,  scrubbed  the  stove,  washed  the  bathroom  floor,  trimmed  my  nails,  arranged  my  dresser,  made  sure  I  had  enough  sanitary  napkins.  When  I  got  into  bed,  I  lay  there  with  the  light  on  for  a  long  time  doing  nothing.  Then  I  saw  the  book  Mariah  had  given  me.  It  was  on  the  night  table  next  to  my  bed.  Beside  it  lay  my  fountain  pen  full  of  beautiful  blue  ink.  I  picked  up  both,  and  I  opened  the  book.  At  the  top  of  the  page  I  wrote  my  full  name:  Lucy  Josephine  Warner.  At  the  sight  of  it,  many  thoughts  rushed  through  me,  but  I  could  only  write  down  this:  &quot;I  wish  I  could  love  someone  so  much  that  I  would  die  from  it.&quot;  And  then  as  I  looked  atthis  sentence  a  great  wave  of  shame  came  over  me  and  I  wept  and  wept,  so  much  that  the  tears  fell  on  the  page  and  caused  all  the  words  to  be-  come  one  great  big  blur. '