 b"I DON'T  have  much  truck  with  I  spirits,  ghosts,  all  that.  Some  peo-  ple  like  it  and  are  full  of  stories  of  haunted  houses  and  the  dead  returning.  When  I  was  in  grade  school  there  was  a  little  draw  out  past  our  end  of  town  that  the  children  dared  each  other  to  pass  alone  at  evening,  and  boasted  about  next  day-&quot;I  seen  the  Indian!&quot;  There  was  supposed  to  be  this  ghost  of  an  Indian  man,  killed  there  way  back  when,  would  come  and  stand  under  the  trees.  An  easy  thing  tosee  in  the  twilight  if  you're  looking  for  it,  and  they  were,  so  asto  boast.  I  don't  under-  stand  that  triumph  people  take  in  tell-  ing  about  seeing  ghosts,  like  they  were  smarter  than  others  to  have  seen  them,  or  had  outwitted  common  sense.  The  Irish  beat  all  for  that.  A  sensible  man  like  Mr.  Carey  would  go  ranting  on  about  the  second  sight  when  hehap-  pened  to  remember  that  his  grandfather  was  from  Ireland.  He'd  tell  how  his  mother  in  [REDACTED]  had  a  premonition  of  her  brother's  automobile  accident  in  [REDACTED]  and  had  shouted  out  at  the  dinner  table,  &quot;Oh,  John's  in  great  danger!&quot;  And  sure  enough,  he'd  run  his  car  into  aditch  that  very  day  and  was  nearly  killed.  Why  he  drove  into  aditch  wasn't  part  of  the  story.  Maybe  he  saw  a  leprechaun,  though  not  likely  in  [REDACTED].  I  am  impatient  with  such  stuff.  I  don't  think  there  are  matters  that  are  outside  of  nature,  or  that  things  can  happen  any  way  dif-  ferent  from  the  way  things  do  happen.  I  think  that  things  happen  in  nature  that  we  don't  altogether  understand,  and  to  call  them  ghosts  is  to  make  sure  we  will  not  understand.  The  best  we  can  do  is  not  to  put  a  name  to  them,  but  to  listen.  I  learned  that  from  Terina  Adams.  I  met  her  when  I  was  working  as  a  waitress  at  the  Hiway  House  of  Waffles,  on  the  grave-  yard  shift.  As  I  had  no  family  with  me  at  that  time  it  was  easier  for  me  than  for  the  women  with  children  or  a  husband  home,  and  I  was  curious  totry  and  see  how  I  liked  night  work.  At  first  I  liked  it  well  enough.  The  work  was  easy.  Often  there'd  be  a  whole  hour  when  nobody  came  in,  and  then  it  would  just  be  a  trucker  or  a  couple  driving  all  night,  not  fussy,  not  even  talkative.  Then  the  day  would  begin  to  break  and  the  pace  would  liven  up,  but  I  was  off  at  seven,  just  before  it  got  heavy  with  the  breakfast  people.  It  suited  me  fine  tosee  the  sun  rise.  But  I  think  sleeping  in  daylight  began  to  trouble  me  some  way.  At  any  rate,  all  the  time  I  worked  nights,  I  was  trou-  bled  by  thoughts  of  my  mother.  Thoughts  of  her  hadn't  much  both-  ered  me  before.  I  left  home  at  seventeen  and  went  to  Los  Angeles  and  got  mar-  ried.  After  my  stepfather  died  I  did  visit  home  in  [REDACTED]  several  times  so  that  my  babies  could  see  their  grandmother  and  she  could  see  them.  Sheseemed  kind  of  worried  and  lifeless  that  couple  of  years,  and  I  had  to  tryto  sort  out  her  taxes  and  property  because  she  couldn't  do  it,  though  she  didn't  trust  my  doing  it  either.  She  would  play  with  the  babies,  though,  and  made  abig  fuss  of  Joey  specially.  Irma  was  so  big  and  so  bald,  she  wasn't  pretty  as  a  baby,  and  Mama  didn't  much  take  toher.  Any-  how,  then  Mama  sold  the  house  and  married  that  Pentecostal.  He  liked  me  about  as  much  as  I  liked  him,  so  I  didn't  33  come  up  to  [REDACTED]  again  for  years.  She  never  tried  to  come  and  see  the  kids.  We  hardly  even  talked  on  the  phone.  I  sent  birthday  and  Xmas  cards.  I  got  divorced,  and  then  married  Tom,  and  divorced  him,  and  then  the  kids'  father  suddenly  wanted  custody.  He  could  af-  ford  the  lawyers,  so  he  got  the  kids.  At  that  time  I  was  drinking.  I  had  started  drinking  along  with  Tom,  and  I'd  had  the  sense  to  get  loose  from  him  but  not  from  it.  When  I  was  drunk  one  night  it  seems  I  decided  to  goand  see  my  mother.  When  I  got  sober  I  wastwo  hundred  miles  up  I-  5,  so  I  went  on  and  drove  the  rest  of  the  way  to  [REDACTED].  It  was  the  middle  of  the  day  when  I  got  there.  I  had  to  look  in  the  telephone  book,not  remembering  the  street,  and  when  I  was  in  the  telephone  booth  I  couldn't  think  of  my  mother's  married  name.  I  looked  up  Churches  in  the  yellow  pages  and  started  looking  for  Pentecostal  ads  that  might  say  the  preacher's  name,and  just  then  Ire-  membered  that  he  was  called  Budd,  Ronald  (Buddy)  Budd.  So  I  found  the  address,  not  far  from  where  we  used  to  live  with  my  stepfather.  She  answered  the  door.  First  she  stayed  behind  the  screen  door,  finally  she  opened  it.  Her  hair  was  gray  and  looked  like  she  hadn't  set  or  even  combed  it,  and  her  skin  was  kind  of  blotched  with  big  dark  spots.  It  was  summer,  hot,  and  she  was  wearing " b"a  sleeveless  dress  that  showed  her  blotched  arms.  She  weighed  at  most  ninety  pounds,  I  would  guess.  She  had  a  look  of  terrorin  her  eyes  so  terrible  to  see  that  I  said,  &quot;Mama!  What  is  wrong?&quot;  as  if  I'd  seen  her  yesterday  instead  of  not  for  seven  years.  And  she  took  hold  of  me  as  if  she  was  a  drown-  ing  woman  and  I  was  a  lifeguard.  She  just  said  my  name  and  held  on  to  me.  Then  I  heard  the  preacher,  &quot;Who's  that?  Who's  that?&quot;  and  she  clutched  harder.  She  said,  &quot;Ailie,&quot;  in  a  whisper,  &quot;Ailie,  he  twists  me,&quot;  staring  at  me  the  way  a  scared  animal  stares.  Then  she  let  go  and  backed  away  and  turned  to  him  and  ducked  her  body  and  said,  &quot;It's  my  daughter,  Ronald.&quot;  He  got  between  us  right  away.  He  was  a  good  enough  looking  man,  smooth  and  gray  and  pink,  but  he  smelled  strange.  I  remembered  that  as  soon  as  he  got  near  me.  He  smelled  like  nail  polish,  like  he'd  been  preserved.  He  asked  me  in,  and  we  sat  in  the  front  room  and  talked  some.  He  talked,  mostly.  He  asked  about  my  children.  My  mother  looked  as  if  she  didn't  know  what  children.  I  said  their  father  had  them.  She  said  then,  &quot;Oh,  Ailie,  don't  let  your  father  have  them!&quot;  I  said,  &quot;Their  father,  Mama,  not  my  father!&quot;  She  looked  confused,  and  then  she  kind  of  laughed.  She  got  us  iced  tea.  I  stayed  about  an  hour,  I  guess.  He  talked  about  some  program  they  had  at  his  church.  I  went  to  stay  at  a  motel  out  on  the  highway.  They  hadn't  asked  where  I  was  staying  or  was  I  on  the  way  some-  where.  When  they  didn't  ask  at  first,  I  decided  to  say,  if  they  did  ask,  &quot;I'mon  my  way  to  [REDACTED]  to  a  job  and  just  thought  I  would  stop  by.&quot;  But  they  didn't  ask.  I  stayed  at  the  motel  that  night  and  next  day  I  got  back  on  I-5  and  drove  up  into  [REDACTED].  W  hy  riot?  My  car  had  fuel-line  trouble  in  Eugene,  and  while  I  was  waiting  for  it  to  be  fixed  I  looked  at  the  classifieds.  There  was  a  vegetar-  ian  restaurant  wanted  an  experienced  waitress.  That  was  me.  They  were  nice  kids.  After  a  month  they  gave  me  a  week  off  to  go  down  to  [REDACTED]  and  get  my  stuff.  My  second  year  there  I  worked  in  the  kitchen  and  learned  that  kind  of  cooking.  They  didn't  have  a  license  at  the  restaurant,  and  I  never  drank  from  the  time  I  drove  the  car  up  I-5  to  [REDACTED]  until  I  came  overhere  to  the  coast,  threeyears  ago  now,  and  began  to  have  a  glass  of  red  wine  with  dinner  when  I  feel  like  it.  Anyhow,  two  years  at  the  Dandelion  in  Eugene  was  enough.  I  came  up  to  [REDACTED]  and  got  the  job  cooking  for  Mr.  Carey  at  Pecan  Pie  Catering  Com-  pany,  and  started  getting  lawyers  lined  up  to  get  me  some  rights  to  my  kids.  It  turned  out  all  I  had  to  do  was  ask,  since  their  father's  new  wife  couldn't  stand  teen-agers.  I  got  them  back  and  saw  them  through  high  school.  It  was  hard  at  first.  They'd  been  living  higher  off  the  hog  with  their  father.  And  they  had  to  leave  all  their  friends  in  [REDACTED],  and  Joey  had  been  doing  a  lot  of  surfing.  But  as  soon  as  I  could  get  him  the  skiing  stuff  he  started  going  to  43616e616461Hood,  and  then  he  was  fine.  Irma  held  out.  She  had  learned  some  ugly  ways  and  she  wasn't  going  to  spare  me  one  of  them.  Drugs  was  what  I  was  afraid  of,  because  Ifeel  I  don't  understand  that,  but  it  was  liquor     -Mona  Van  Duyn  she  decided  to  go  in  for,  at  thirteen.  I  was  what  you  could  call  an  expert  in  that.  We  worked  through  it.  It  took  a  lot  of  work,  but  she  got  herself  straight.  But  she  overdid  it.  She  went  and  be-  came  a  born-again,  which  took  her  away  from  me  in  the  other  direction.  But  she  was  an  honors  student  at  her  school.  It  was  in  those  years  that  my  mother  died.  I  was  not  notified  in  time  for  her  funeral.  When  Mr.  Carey  retired  and  closed  the  firm,  Irma  was  working  for  a  year-  round  Xmas  shop  over  in  Cannon  Beach,  and  Joey  was  in  [REDACTED].  I  took  on  the  Hiway  House  of  Waffles  job  mostly  because  it  was  so  handy  to  where  I  lived,  south  of  Port-  land.  I  could  be  there  in  two  minutes  in  my  car.  So  then  I  went  on  the  late  shift,  as  I  said.  And  after  a  couple  of  weeks,  Terina  Adams  came  on  that  shift,  too.  Terina  was  a  very  quiet  person,  re-  served.  She  was  proud.  I  thought  stuck-  up,  at  first.  When  Yance,  the  night  cook,  would  make  the  kind  of  jokes  he  did,  she  didn't  smile.  I  always  smiled.  It  was  easier  to  smile,.  It's  like  there's  a  " b"kind  of  oil  that  makes  their  wheels  go  round,  and  smil-  ing  is  part  of  it,  women  smiling.  They  expect  it,  and  when  they  don't  get  it  they  may  not  know  what's  missing  but  they  tend  to  seize  upand  get  mean,  like  a  motor  you  don't  oil.  Well,  Terina  didn't  give  out  any  oil.  To  me  either.  She  was  civil  and  polite,  but  a  mouth  like  a  straight  line.  It  was  like  she  was  deaf.  And  she  looked  heavy.  I  don't  mean  overweight.  She  was  filled  out,  but  very  trim.  I  mean  her  look  was  heavy  as  if  there  was  a  weight  inher,  weighing  down  her  steps  and  her  head.  She  kept  her  eyes  down,  even.  So  it  seemed  like  she  held  herself  away,  and  if  that  was  what  she  wanted,  fine  with  me.  I  liked  it  best  those  nights  when  nobody  was  talking,  anyhow.  I  didn't  use  my  head  about  Terina  until  when  I  was  in  the  john,  which  had  a  thin  wall  on  the  kitchen  side,  and  heard  Yance  say  to  Bert,  &quot;Tarbaby  ain't  here  yet.&quot;  I  thought,  Well,  you  are  a  fool,  Ailie.  She  wasn't  only  the  only  black  person  working  in  the  restaurant  but  the  only  black  person  in  it  ever.  In  [REDACTED]  the  whites  and  blacks  and  Chicanos  and  Indians  all  tend  to  keep by theirselves,  and  outside  [REDACTED]  you  could  think  there  wasn't  anything  but  whites.  And  the  usual  num-  _-  ber  of  them  are  Yances.  So  no  wonder  she  wasn't  going  around  oiling  any-  body's  machinery  any  more  than  she  had  to.  As  soon  as  there  came  a  time  I  saw  her  having  a  cup  of  coffee  in  the  back  booth  of  her  station,  I  went  over  and  started  asking  her  did  she  have  family  and  so  on,  pushing  at  her,  push-  ing  at  that  weight  inher,  until  she  began  to  give  a  little.  Like  moving  a  stalled  car.  But  it  got  going,  finally,  some.  Terina  never  wanted  to  talk  much,  but  she  liked  me  all  right.  It  was  hard  for  her  to  talk.  That  weight  in  her,  she  just  carried  it  around  because  there  was  nowhere  to  put  it  down.  Most  of  it  I  never  found  out  about.  Her  son  who  was  twenty  was  living  with  her,  and  she  said  that  she  could  leave  him  nights,  now,  but  when  he  got  worse  she  would  have  to  stop  working.  I  was  thinking  how  to  ask  what  was  wrong  when  she  asked  me  not  to  say  anything  about  her  son  to  anybody  there  because  she  was  afraid  of  how  they  would  act,  and  Mr.  Benaski  might  fire  her  if  he  knew.  So  I  guessed  I  knew  enough.  &quot;Don't  tell  that  Yance,&quot;  she  said.  I  said  that  if  I  saw  Yance's  beard  was  on  fire  I  wasn't  sure  I'd  notify  him.  That  drew  that  straight-line  mouth  out  a  little  bit.  In  fact,  watching  Terina,  I  had  begun  sparing  the  oil,  saving  it  for  when  I  wanted  to  use  it.  Maybe  they  all  needed  it,  butnot  all  of  them  de-  served  it,  I  thought.  Why  waste  it  on  the  Yances?  But  all  the  time  I  was  getting  to  know  and  admire  Terina,  there  was  this  weight  of  my  own  in  me.  Nothing  " b"like  hers,  but  still  I  kept  thinking  about  my  mother.  It  was  as  if  I  had  some-  thing  to  puzzle  out,  kind  of  like  a  crossword,  where  you  have  a  word  down,  say,  but  you  haven't  figured  out  the  ones  across  it.  I  like  crosswords.  Often  I'd  do  the  one  in  the  paper,  those  long  nights.  I  did  them  to  keep  from  thinking,  because  whatever  I  started  thinking  about,  it  would  end  up  with  my  mother.  If  she  was  the  puzzle,  then  the  word  down  I  had  was  what  she  said-&quot;Oh,  Ailie,  don't  let  your  father  have  them!&quot;  She  didn't  mean  my  real  father.  He  was  killed  in  the  South  Pacific  when  I  was  three.  She  meant  her  second  hus-  band,  my  stepfather,  Harold.  She  al-  ways  called  him  &quot;your  father&quot;  to  me.  Whatever  &quot;your  father&quot;  did  was  won-  derful.If  it  wasn't  wonderful  he  hadn't  done  it.  That  was  the  rule.  That's  where  I  learned  to  think  like  that.  But  where  did  she  learn  it,  why  did  she  learn  it?  What  she  said-don't  let  him  have  them-sounded  like  she  knew  about  the  feel-good  games,  but  if  she  did  know,  if  she  had  known,  why  did  she  let  him  have  me?  Maybe  she  thought  then  that  they  were  all  right.  Maybe  they  were  all  right.  It  was  only  his  fingers.  When  I  try  to  think  about  it,  it  always  seems  like  I  didn't  exactly  mind,  because  if  I  had  I  would  have  got  away,  somehow.  Or  I  would  have  toldher.  But  I  did  try  to  tell  her,  once.  That's  why  I  still  don't  know  what  she  knew  and  what  she  thought,  because  all  she  said  was  the  rule:  &quot;Your  father  loves  you  and  would  never  hurt  you.&quot;  And  it  was  true  it  didn't  hurt.  He  kept  saying,  &quot;Doesn't  that  feel  good  now,  doesn't  that  feel  good,&quot;  kind  of  croon-  ing,  and  I  didn't  know  ifit  did,  but  I  knew  it  was  supposed  to.  She  must  have  found  what  I  called  the  shaving  cream  in  my  bed,  but  what  did  she  think  about  it?  I  kept  thinking  about  that-what  did  she  think  about  it?  Did  she  think  I'd  wet  the  bed,  or  spilled  something?  She  never  asked.  What  did  she  think  when  she  washed  the  sheets?  Where  did  she  learn  to  think  what  she  thought?  My  stepfather  sort  of  tapered  off  in  my  life  when  I  started  having  my  peri-  ods  and  getting  my  growth.  I  got  tall  all  in  one  year,  between  twelve  and  thirteen,  and  I  got  wise,  too,  at  least  for  akid  that  age,  and  it  was  like  I  began  to  scare  Harold  off.  He  couldn't  come  at  me  with  his  feel-good  games  als.  A  when  I  was  nearly  his  size.  I  think  my  big  figure  did  frighten  him,  because  he  got  prim  and  prissy.  He  was  always  after  my  mother  to  make  me  &quot;dress  decently,&quot;  not  to  wear  shorts  or  halter  tops,  when  it  was  a  hundred  and  three  or  a  hundred  and  four  degrees  in  Chi-  co.  I  had  turned  into  a  big  woman,  and  he  was  a  little  man.  He  was  suited  that  way  to  my  mother,  who  wasn't  short  but  was  very  fine-boned.  As  I  look  back  I  think  they  weren't  a  bad  match,  as  marriages  go.  But  what  about  Ronald  (Buddy)  Budd?  That  was  a  whole  other  part  of  the  puzzle,  and  I  didn't  seem  to  know  any  of  the  definitions.  Was  she  maybe  sick,  that  last  time  I  saw  her?  When  she  died  they  said  pneumonia,  but  maybe  she  had  had  a  cancer,  to  pull  her  down  like  that  into  a  concentration-camp  person,  a  little  bent  stick.  Was  that  what  she  was  so  terrified  of?  But  then  why  did  she  say  those  words  I  couldn't  make  sense  of  at  all,  &quot;He  twists  me!&quot;  I  kept  thinking  that  it  meant  something  that  he  was  doing  to  her  mind,  like  they  say  that  people  have  twisted  minds.  I  was  in  the  john  at  about  three  in  the  morning,  a  long,  cold  night  in  November,  some  ice  on  the  roads,  hard-  ly  anybody  in  the  restaurant  since  elev-  en.  I  had  washed  my  hands  and  was  straightening  my  uniform  blouse,  smoothing  it  down,  because  it  wasn't  cut  full  enough  for  me.  Those  words  came  into  my  mind  again,  and  I  felt  them.  I  knew  exactly  what  they  meant.  I  knew  they  meant  exactly  what  they  said.  My  hair  raised  up  and  a  kind  of  sick  flush  ran  all  over  my  face  and  body.  I  wanted  to  throw  up  for  a  minute.  Then  it  passed  and  all  I  wanted  was  to  get  out  of  that  john  with  its  poi-  son  smell  of  sweet  cherry  disin-  fectant.  I  came  out.  Terina  was  just  going  into  the  kitchen.  I  thought  she  looked  startled,  but  my  mind  was  not  on  her.  A  couple  of  fellows  came  in  from  the  semi  that  had  just  pulled  up,  and  I  gave  them  the  red  carpet.  They  were  nice  men,  from  the  San  Joaquin  [REDACTED],  had  been  in  before  on  their  [REDACTED]  run,  and  I  just  poured  out  the  oil.  I  wanted  company,  I  wanted  to  laugh  at  some  jokes,  I  wanted  to  like  them.  I  kept  them  an  hour.  When  they  left,  Terina  came  over,  and  we  went  to  the  back  booth  and  had  a  smoke.  &quot;Who  is  the  woman,  Ailie?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;What  woman?&quot;  I  asked  her.  She  looked  at  me,  lifting  up  her  eyes  under  their  heavy  lids.  Terina  was  dark-skinned,  with  eyes  a  color  lighter  than  her  skin.  She's  shorter  than  you,  about  my  height,  and  her  hair's  white  and  kind  of  tufty-like.  She  hasa  blue-and-white  housedress.  She's  real  thin.  Her  arms  are  like  sticks,  and  sort  of  bruised-look-  ing,  like  leukemia,  you  know?  I  saw  her  with  you  once  before.  Tonight  I  saw  her  instead  of  you.  Coming  out  of  the  ladies'  room.  I  saw  her  first,  and  then  I  looked  twice  and  saw  you.&quot;  &quot;It's  my  mama,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  thought  maybe,&quot;  she  said.  After  a  minute  she  asked,  &quot;Isshe  alive?&quot;  I  shook  my  head.  Terina  didn't  ask  anything  more.  I  said,  &quot;I  have  been  carrying  her  around  lately.&quot;  &quot;We  have  that  to  do,&quot;  she  said,  and  after  a  while,  &quot;Trying  to  listen.&quot;  &quot;That's  it,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Trying  to  listen  to  what  I  didn't  hear.&quot;  Terina  nodded,  and  that  was  all  we  said.  That  afternoon  when  I  woke  up,  I  went  to  the  telephone  before  I  was  hardly  awake  yet,  like  I  was  obeying  orders.  I  called  up  the  drugstore  in  Klatsand  where  my  daughter  had  start-  ed  working  last  summer.  The  owner  put  her  on  the  phone,  and  I  said,  &quot;Hi,  this  is  your  mother,&quot;  without  any  idea  what  elseI  was  going  to  say.  She  said,  &quot;Hi,  Mama!  I  was  thinking  about  you.&quot;  The  way  she  said  it  gave  me  the  next  word.  I  said,  &quot;I  was  thinking  I  wanted  to  see  you.  And  maybe  move  out  to  some  town  out  there  on  the  coast  for  a  while.  I'm  fed  up  here.&quot;  &quot;There's  three  waitress-wanted  signs  on  Main  Street,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;But  you  know,  Mama,  they  don't  pay  shit.&quot;  I  knew  then  that  she  had  made  her  own  arrangements  with  Jesus.  I  was  so  relieved  about  that  that  I  said,  &quot;Well!  I'll  be  over  next  week.  Wednesday,  maybe.  Can  you  find  me  a  motel  till  I  get  settled?&quot;  &quot;I  gota  couch,&quot;  she  said.  I  said,  &quot;Irma,  do  you  remember  my  mother  at  all?&quot;  She  laughed.  &quot;No,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Do  I  have  to?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;but  I'll  tell  you.  When  I  get  there.&quot;  But  I  never  did.  It  didn't  seem  nec-  essary. "