 b" SHE  had  not  yet  accepted  as  real  the quiver  in  her  stomach  and  the  slight  green  dot  of  pain  in  the  middle  of  her  head  that  signalled  an  incipient  migraine.  Her  husband,  on  thecar  seat  beside  her,  punched  in  a  tape  called  &quot;Tracking  the  Blues,&quot;  which  contained  no  black  music  but  rather  the  witless  drone  of  a  weekly  financial  lecture  sent  from  New  York  City.  This  particular  tape  was  seven  days  stale  and  had  been  played  three  times  on  their  trip,  but  Donald  repeated  it  to  get  &quot;fair  value&quot;  forhis  money.  The  tape,  not  incidentally,  replaced  Stravinsky's  &quot;Histoire  du  Soldat&quot;  from  an  [REDACTED]  City  FM  station,  apiece  she  always  enjoyed.  &quot;Do  you  mind,  darling?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;Not  at  all,  dear,&quot;  she  replied,  partly  because  the  pain  clinic  she  had  attended  in  [REDACTED]  that  spring  had  emphasized  giving  up  resistance  to  outside  phe-  nomena  at  the  possible  onset  ofa  migraine  under  the  notion  that  you  wanted  to  starve  rather  than  feed  the  affliction.  For  instance,  she  shouldn't  have  been  driving-sitting  with  her  eyesclosed  listening  to  music  would have  been  helpful,  but  she  drove  to  avoid  reading  to  him,  which  is  what  he  required  when  he  drove.  An  additional,  insurmountable  problem  was  that  his  car,  an  Audi  5000,  was  low-slung  and  the  early  August  corn  beside  Interstate  80  in  [REDACTED]  presented  itself  as  a  dense  green  wall.  She  preferredthe  higher  vantage  of  her  own  nine-year-old  Toyota  Land  Cruiser,  a  functional,  clumsy  old  machine  that  she  and  her  beloved  friend  Zilpha  used  on  their  outings-or  so  they  called  them-  which  were  somewhat  famous  in  their  neighborhood,  in  Bloomfield  Hills,  a  suburb  of  [REDACTED].  Clare  would  be  fifty  in  another  week;  Donald  was  fifty-one  and  eager  to  get  on  with  life,  a  matter  about  which  she  had  mixed  feelings.  They  had  just  been  visiting  their  daughter,  [REDACTED],  who  at  twenty-seven  was  a  veterinarian  mar-  ried  to  a  veterinarian,  the  both  of  them  ministering  to  horses  and  cattle  in  a  clinic  outside  of  Sioux  City,  [REDACTED],  over  by  the  [REDACTED]  border.  The  visit  had  been  cut  short  two  days  by  a  quarrel  between  [REDACTED]  and  Donald.  On  the  way  home,  they  were  to  spend  the weekend  with  Donald,  Jr.,  who  at  twenty-five  was  a  commodities-market  whiz  in  [REDACTED].  &quot;I  love  you,  Mom,  but  I  can't  un-  derstand  why  you  don't  leave  that  asshole,&quot;  [REDACTED]  had  said.  &quot;Please,  [REDACTED],  he's  your  father.&quot;  &quot;In  name  only,&quot;she  had  replied,  and  then  they  kissed  goodbye  as  they  always  did,  Clare's  heart  giving  a  breathless  wrench  at  separation.  A  specific  giddiness  began  to  over-  take  her  when  she  thought  of  the  good-  bye.  This  is  the  way,  after  all,  I've  spent  my  life.  You  could  not  fault  Donald  for  being  Donald  any  more  than  you  could  fault  [REDACTED]  for  being  the  same  as  she  was  at  three  years,  a  cantankerous  little  girl  with  a  sure  though  general  sense  of  mission,  a  per-  sonality  so  specific  as  to  be  sometimes  offensive.  &quot;'The  overloaded  leverages  are  com-  ing  home  to  roost,&quot;  Donald  brayed,  so  loud  that  she  applied  the  brakes.  She  quickly  reset  the  cruise  control  at  sev-  enty-a  modest  speed,  considering  that  most  cars  passed  her.  The  week  before  at  the  club,  she  had  attempted  a  witti-  cism  about  how  all  the  lives  saved  by  Mothers  Against  Drunk  Driving  were  being  lost  to  the  raising  of  the  speed  limit.  The  luncheon  ladies  were  used  to  Clare  and  let  the  quip  pass,  but  not  a  new  member,  who  found  it  &quot;dreadfully  morbid.&quot;  Suddenly  it  occurred  to  her  that  Donald  didn't  feel  really  good  about  making  money  unlessothers  were  losing  theirs,  which  made  it  all,  to  her  mind,  a  silly  game  to  spend  your  life  on  rather  than  the  grave  process  with  which  he  was  totally  obsessed.  An  ever-so-slight  tremor  of  head  pain  made  her  dismiss  the  thought  about  Donald  and  money  as  true  but  banal.  She  forced  her  thoughts  back  to  a  pleasant  morning  with  [REDACTED],  spent  hiking  on  some  bluffs  above  the  Mis-  souri  River.  [REDACTED]  had  discovered  a  rattlesnake  that  had  difficulty  getting  out  of  their  way  because  of  a  huge  lump  in  its  belly-no  doubt,  [REDACTED]  said,  from  swallowing  a  gopher.  They  both  laughed  when  [REDACTED]  added,  &quot;Poor  thing,  also  poor  gopher.&quot;  The  laughter  was  nervous  relief.  The  first  hour  of  their  walk  had  been  spent  lifting  Clare's  confusion  over  a  pamphlet  an  antivivisectionist  neighbor  had  given  her  concerning  adoctor  down  [REDACTED]  who,  on  a  defense  contract,  had  shot  several  thousand  cats  in  the  head  for  " b"research.  [REDACTED]  habitu-  ally  defended  the  actions  of  the  scientific  commu-  nity,  but  this  one  puzzled  her,  as  the  brain  of  a  cat  was  dissimilar  enough  to  thatof  a  human  to  make  the  research  appear  use-  less.  She  did  not  tell  Clare  that  it  would  have  made  more  sense  to  shoot  several  thousand  dogs,  or  better  yet  chim-  panzees,  though  the  lat-  ter  were  very  expensive.  The  purpose  of  the  re-  search,  of  course,  was  to  improve  treatment  of  head  wounds  in  soldiers.  Then  Clare  had  brought  up  another  item  that  she  had  brooded  about  for  two  years  without  men-  tioning.  [REDACTED]  had  sent  her  an  article  from  O-  on  Nature  Quarterly,  by  a  fellow  named  Lopez,  called  &quot;The  Passing  Wisdom  of  Birds,&quot;  in  which  the  author  de-  scribed  Cort\xc3\xa9s'  vengeful  burning  of  the  aviaries  in  [REDACTED]  City  in  the  sixteenth  century.  Clare  loved  birds  and  cats  and  could  easily  overlook  the  fact  that  Cort\xc3\xa9s  had  de-  stroyed  the  city  and  murdered  hundreds  of  thousands  of  citizens-that  was  to  be  expected-but  the  burning  of  Mon-  tezuma's  aviaries  seemed  to  stand  for  something  far  more  grotesque  and  the  image  of  the  conflagration  passed  through  her  mind  daily.  So  she  had  asked  [REDACTED],  a  scant  fifteen  minutes  before  they  saw  the  gorged  rattlesnake,  why  she  had  sent  the  article,  and  Lau-  rel  had  said,  &quot;People  who  love  each  other  try  to  explain  themselves  to  each  other.  I  wanted  you  to  see  again  why  I  work  with  animals.  I  can't  stand  peo-  ple.  Now  it's  your  turn  to  explain  yourself  to  me.&quot;  That,  as  they  say,  was  that,  until  the  poor  snake  appeared  as  a  convenience,  almost  a  stage  prop  if  it  hadn't  been  for  the  immensity  of  the  sky  above  and  the  wide,  brown  Missou-  ri  River  below  them.  Back  on  Interstate  80,  she  wondered  why  anyone  bothered  to  teach  the  things  they  did-the  grandeur,  sweep,  and  intricacies  of  civilization  at  its  best  -when  there  was  little  enough  to  do  with  the  knowledge.  Clare's  criticisms  of  the  human  condition  were  sharp  but  basically  midrange,  and  items  like  Cor-  t\xc3\xa9s  and  the  birds  shifted  her  off  balance,  as  did,  to  a  lesser  degree,  the  three  thousand  holes  in  the  heads  of  three  thousand  cats.  Now  she  tried  to  reduce  the  growing  pain  by  an  act  of  will,  dimming  the  fluttery  green  energy  to  a  pinpoint  if  only  for  a  moment,  as  she  had  been  taught  to  do  in  [REDACTED].  There  was  a  sign  for  a  rest  stop  in  ten  miles  and  it  was  two-fifty,  which  meant  she  would  beat  the  phone  call  by  a  minute.  The  tape  about  blue-chip  stocks  had  mercifully  finished,  but  now  Donald  was  whistling  &quot;The  Colonel  Bogey  March&quot;  and  tapping  out  the  rhythm  on  the  cellular  phone,  anticipa-  tory  to  his  daily  broker  call.  His  lips  pursed  and  the  whistling  and  tapping  stopped  as  he  made  a  notation  in  red  pencil  on  the  day's  Wall  Street  Journal.  &quot;I'm  going  to  have  to  stop  while  you  phone.  I'm  not  feeling  all  that  well,&quot;  she  said,  stiffening  at  his  possible  reac-  tion.  &quot;Fine,  honey.  We've  got  time  to  kill.&quot;  Donald  glanced  at  his  watch.  &quot;There's  room  for  your  nappy  in  Day-  enport.&quot;  She  never  understood  quite  how  &quot;nap&quot;  became  &quot;nappy&quot;  but  had  always  judged  an  inquiry  not  quite  worth-  while.  She  looked  at  him  with  the  longing  close  to  homesickness  that  the  troubled  at  heart  feel  for  those  who  treat  the  world  as  their  lovely  private  apple.  Donald  was  a  passably  good  man,  or  so  everyone  thought,  a  citizen  so  apparently  solid  that,  as  a  club  jokester  had  said,  he  could  throw  a  successful  fund-raiser  for  a  crack  deal-  er.  A  business  associate  had  organized  " b"a  dinner  for  ten  at  a  hotel  in  Daven-  port,  which  Donald  looked  forward  to  as  an  orphan  would  his  first  circus.  He  was  being  especially  tender  because  Clare  was  the  daughter  of  one  of  the  founding  partners  of  the  accounting  firm-of  which  he  was  now  the  C.E.O.,  and  which  had  branches  throughout  the  [REDACTED]-and  the  [REDACTED]  office  was  doing  especially  well.  The  [REDACTED]  people  would  be  thrilled  to  meet  Clare.  It  would  be  all  bows  by  the  men  and  curtsies  by  the  ladies.  He  had  even  alerted  them  about  Clare's  taste  in  wine,  which  he  thought  a  wasteful  vice  she  had  inherited  from  her  mother.  Frequently,  he  noted,  the  wineon  a  dinner  bill  equalled  the  price  of  the  food,  and  when  he  picked  up  a  case  of  Meursault  or  Chambertin  at  the  wine  store  he  liked  to  joke  out  loud,  &quot;Here  goes  three  shares  of  General  Motors.&quot;  The  old  clerk  at  the  wine  store  invariably  smiled  his  mask  of  a  smile,  knowing  it  was  Clare's  money  in  the  first  place-a  point  that  would  appall  Clare  herself  in  that  she  was  so  fair-minded  about  her  wealth  asto  be  frequently  rendered  immobile.  But  not  now.  She  eased  thecar  into  the  rest  stop,  slowing  to  a  creep  for  fear  of  hitting  the  children  darting  in  and  out  of  campers  and  cars  in  the  crowded  parking  area.  Across  a  green  swath,  semis  were  parked,  idling.  The  muffled  drone  of  their  engines  ceased  only  at  destinations.  One  of  the  semis  held  squealing  pigs  in  metal-slatted  layers,  while  another  was  full  of  silent  cattle.  Clare  got  out,  taking  the  leather-and-  canvas  Buisonte  bag  Donald  had  bought  her  on  their  trip  to  Florence.  At  the  time,  she  had  not  been  able  to  believe  his  brusque  affability  translated  so  well.  They  had  dined  nearly  every  evening  with  Italians  he  hadmet  on  his  tours  of  brokerage  offices,  several  times  in  their  homes,  allowing  Clare  a  look  into  the  life  of  Florence  never  allowed  the  ordinary  tourist.  Donald  waved  at  her  with  the  other  hand  on  the  phone,  antsy  to  make  his  daily  call.  She  watched  him  dial,  then  walked  toward  the  [REDACTED]  Welcome  Center  and  the  adjoining  bathrooms,  her  head  begin-  ning  to  thrum  in  the  noisy  heat.  It  occurred  to  her  that  the  tourists  all  looked  blowsy  and  fatigued  because  they  were  headed  back  east  at  the  end  of  their  vacations.  When  she  thought  about  it  later,  Clare  was  surprised  again  by  how  clear  and  cool  her  painful  mind  had  felt.  Every  human  and  object,  the  landscape  itself,  had  the  distinct  outlines  found  in  a  coloring  book  beforethe  crayons  are  applied.  The  green  wall  of  the  cornfield  behind  the  Welcome  Center  be-  came  luminous  and  of  surpassing  love-  liness.  She  turned  andwalked  back  toward  Donald  in  the  car,  but  he  was  inhis  brokerage  trance,  his  clipped  business  voice  saying,  &quot;But  what  the  hell  happened  to  Isomet?&quot;  In  the  bathroom  stall,  she  checked  her  bag  for  certain  items:  Donald,  Jr.,'s  Boy  Scout  compass,  which  she  used  on  hikes  with  Zilpha;  a  small  can  of  cran-  " b"berry  juice;  a  book  with  the  addresses  of  three  orphan  childrenshe  wrote  to  and  helped  support  in  the  Dominican  Republic,  [REDACTED],  and  Costa  Rica;  in  a  leather  packet  was  her  passport  and  a  copy  of  the  new  translation  of  the  Tao  T\xc3\xa9  Ching  given  to  her  by  a  counsellor  at  the  pain  clinic;  and  at  the  bottom,  and  most  important,  was  the  tan  beret  she  had  bought  nearly  thirty  years  be-  fore  on  the  Rue  Saint-Jacques  and  had  never  worn.  As  a  comparative-litera-  ture  senior  at  [REDACTED]  State,  she  was  to  have  spent  a  year  studying  in  [REDACTED],  but  actually  stayed  only  three  weeks,  because  her  father  died  and  the  family  sent  her  boyfriend,  Donald,  to  fetch  her  home.  At  the  time,  Donald  was  her  act  of  rebellion,  a  left-wing  political-sci-  ence  major  who  wore  lumberjack  shirts,  the  only  son  in  a  working-class  family  from  Flint,  who  intended  to  be  a  writer  or  labor  leader.  On  dates  they  read  John  Dos  Passos's  &quot;U.S.A.&quot;  tril-  ogy  aloud  to  each  other.  Curiously,  her  father  had  rather  liked  Donald,  and  perhaps  this  was  foresight  into  the  man  Donald  would  become.  Each  morning  for  three  weeks  in  her  tiny  pension,  Clare  would  look  at  her  beret,  butshe  was  too  timid  to  put  it  on.  Now,  in  the  toilet  stall,  she  finally  put  on  the  beret  and  laughed  softly  to  herself.  It  was  so  easy.  For  luck,  she  also  slipped  on  a  conch-pearl  ring  Zilpha  had  given  her  in  March  as  a  remembrance.  Among  her  last  words  had  been  &quot;We  never  got  around  to  the  Amazon&quot;-a  trip  they  had  planned  since  they  were  girls,  when  they  were  convinced  they'd  discover  a  pleasanter  civilization  somewhere  in  the  jungle.  Clare  took  out  a  Cafergot  pill,  then  put  it  back,  preferring  pain-ridden  con-  sciousness.  She  tried  to  remember  something  Ren\xc3\xa9  Char  had  written,  &quot;Blank  blank  blank  the  legitimate  fruits  of  daring,&quot;  but  the  growing  pain  blinded  her  memory.  The  note  itself  was  simple  enough:  &quot;I  am  in  a  small  red  car  driving  east.  My  husband  has  beenabusing  me.  Do  not  believe  any-  thing  he  says.  Call  my  daughter.&quot;  She  added  [REDACTED]'s  number,  wrote  &quot;To  The  Police&quot;  on  the  envelope,  and  stuck  it  to  the  side  of  the  stall  with  a  postage  stamp.  Maybe  &quot;abuse&quot;&quot;  was  too  strong  a  word,  Clare  thought,  but  maybe  not.  She  noted  that  someone  had  scratched  Bob  is  cute&quot;  on  the  paint  with  a  sharp  object,  and  she  smiled  at  the  absolute  muddle  of  human  sexuality.    Behind  the  Welcome  Center,  a  small  boy  walking  the  family  dog  held  Clare's  bag  as  she  climbed  the  fence,  which  was  more  difficult  than  she  an-  ticipated.  She  wobbled  and  the  wire  cut  into  the  soles  of  her  tennis  shoes.  On  the  other  side,  she  lost  a  few  moments  explaining  to  the  boy  why  he  couldn't  go  along,  but  then  the  dog  started  barking  and  she  hurried  off  down  be-  tween  two  corn  rows,  toward  the  inte-  rior,  wherever  that  might  be.  ITHIN  a  scant  five  minutes,  Clare  would  have  liked  to  turn  around,  had  turning  around  not  al-  ready  become  so  improbable.  A  hun-  dred  yards  into  the  cornfield,  the  beret  made  her  feel  silly,  so  she  took  it  off  and  stuffed  it  into  her  bag.  The  mo-  ment  the  hat  came  off,  the  pain  became  so  excruciating  that  she  fell  to  her  hands  and  knees  and  retched  up  her  lunch  of  iced  tea  and  a  club  sandwich.  The  pain  was  such  that  she  could  not  balance  herself,  so  she  pushed  her  legs  backward  until  she  lay  on  her  stomach.  She  closed  her  eyes  a  moment,  but  the  world  became  bright  red  and  whirling.  There  was  the  slightest  memory  of  a  pain  lesson  but  it  was  too  abstract  to  be  of  much  use:  the  secret  was  to  maintain  your  equilibrium  in  the  face  of  incom-  prehension,  as  pain,  finally,  could  not  be  understood.  She  looked  at  the  way  the  roots  of  the  corn  broke  up  the  earth  at  her  eye  level.  She  tried  to  let  go  of  her  brain,  which  now  seemed  about  to  boil  over  with  its  brew  of  knots  and  hackings,  clots,  soft  lumps  against  sharp,  hot  stones.  She  rolled  over  onto  her  back.  By  the  time  the  sun  made  its  way  down  through  the  tassels,  leaves,  and  stalks,  it  was  weak  and  liquid.  There  was  a  crow  call  so  close  it  startled  her-the  " b"bird  flapping  low  over  her  row,  then  twisting,  darting  back  for  another  look,  squawking  loudly  in  warning  at  the  intruder,  then  making  a  third  pass  up  the  row  out  of  curiosity.  She  had  never  been  so  close  to  a  crow,  she  thought,  and  tried  closing  her  eyes  a  moment  to  rehearse  crows  from  the  past.  The  red  storm  had  somewhat  subsided  and  she  saw  the  open  mouth  of  a  rooster  at  her  grandmother's,  and  herself  as  a  child  stooping  near  the  rooster  as  he  swelled  his  throat,  craned  his  neck,  and  crowed  as  if  he  could  not  stophimself.  As  a  child  she  had  liked  cellars  because  they  frightened  her;  now  she  longed  for  a  cool,  black  cellar  with  a  rooster  for  company,  and  for  her  grandmother's  dog,  whom  the  rooster  pretended  to  chase  though  he  kept  a  safe  distance,  as  if  he  and  the  dog  had  agreed  upon  a  reasonable  pace.  Grandfather  told  her  that  the  rooster  felt  the  whole  world  was  after  his  hens,  and  that  was  all  he  thought  about.  Now  she  heard  a  siren,  but  only  gradually  understood  the  sound,  from  back  toward  the  rest  stop.  She  scram-  bled  to  her  feet  and  they  moved  off  quickly  down  the  row  as  if  informed  by  their  own  panic.  The  siren  became  louder,  then  stopped  abruptly.  She  con-  tinued  to  run,  holding  her  hands  and     the  bag  up  against  the  slapping  of  the  leaves.  There  was  an  image  of  Donald  explaining  himself  to  the  police,  who  she  hoped  would  call  [REDACTED]  despite  Donald's  usual  cagey  aplomb.  But  then  Donald  passed  away  with  her  breath-  lessness,  and  her  flayed  brain  began  to  play  the  rest  of  the  Stravinsky  Donald  had  truncated;  then  she  tripped  on  a  clod  of  earth  and  fell  sprawling  in  a  wide  path  where  the  rows  switched  direction  to  accommodate  a  variation  in  terrain.  Now  she  was  so  far  from  [REDACTED]  that  she  no  longer  could  hear  the  trucks,  only  the  crows;  the  one  had  become  five,  and  she  twisted  her  neck  for  a  look  as  they  passed  over,  appar-  ently  discussing  her.  Perhaps  the  police  could  see  the  birds  far  out  in  the  corn-  field  and  guess  that  she  was  there,  but  she  hoped  they  would  believe  the  &quot;small  red  car  driving  east.&quot;  The  sun  was  warm  in  the  narrow  clearing  and  she  moved  her  upper  body  into  the  shade.  She  drew  out  the  can  of  cran-  berry  juice,  drank  it,  then  looked  at  the  Boy  Scout  compass,  deciding  to  head  west  along  the  wider  row  after  a  rest.  She  curled  up,  noting  that  the  earth  smelled  like  a  damp  board  afterrain,  then  more  heat.  She  looked  at  a  dirty  hand  and  thought  idly  with  a  smile,  despite  the  pain,  that  for  the  first  time in  her  life  she  did  not  know  where  her  next  shower  was  coming  from.  CLARE  slept  for  a  few  minutes  but  was  startled  awake  by  her  first  dream  in  several  months.  She  was  a  girl  again,  out  in  her  rowboat  on  Burt  Lake,  and  Dr.  Samuel  Roth  was  on  the  dock  calling  out  and  asking  her  why  she  had  died.  That  was  all  there  was  to  the  dream  and  then  she  awoke.  The  pain  had  localized  toward  the  right  side  of  her  head  and  within  it  Dr.  Roth  continued  to  call  after  she  woke  up.  Clare  was  difficult  to  push  off  balance  and  ignored  the  phenomenon,  which  was  not  unlike  certain  other  symptoms  of  classic  migraines.  Besides,  she  liked  Dr.  Roth  very  much;  he  not  only  was  her  physician  and  confidant,  up  to  a  point,  but  also  had  been  Zilpha's  doc-  tor.  Dreams  are  no  respecter  of  time  and  Dr.  Roth  couldn't  have  been  more  than  a  child  when  Clare  was  a  girl  in  a  rowboat.  She  turned  over  onto  her  back  and  thought  that  at  the  very  least  she  had  had  her  first  dream  since  Zilpha  died;  two  weeks  later,  when  Clare's  dog  died,  her  sleep  had  become  even  black-  er.  The  dream  wasn't  ominous  to  Clare  -death  simply  didn't  hold  her  interest  -but  there  was  the  nagging  angle  of  Dr.  Roth,  whom  Clare  at  that  very  moment  realized  she  had  been  in  love  with  for  a  brief  period.  This  recognition  jolted  her  to  her  feet  and  she  continued  to  head  west,  wondering  if  &quot;maize&quot;  and  &quot;maze''  were  somehow  connected.  She  normally  walked  a  great  deal,  be-  cause  she  was  essentially  claustrophobic  and  walking  made  the  world  appear  larger.  The  fact  that  the  field  offered  little  variation  was  moot.  Dr.  Roth's  curi-  ously  lighthearted  question  meant  something  different  to  her  than  might  appear.  Once,  when  they  hadhad  a  drink  after  a  library-board  meeting,  he  said  that  most  of  his  patients  were  already  dead,  and  life  herself  was  merely  a  technicality  that  allowed  them  to  get  up  in  the  morning  to  collect  a  paycheck.  They  shared  this  sort  of  acerbic  wit,  which  " b" made  them  both  somewhat  mistrusted  in  what  are  known  as  the  better  circles.  The  characteristic  was  harder  on  Dr.  Roth  than  on  Clare  because  this  sharp  wit,  added  to  his  slowness  to  write  unnecessary  pre-  scriptions,  limited  his  prac-  tice  to  those  who  desired  honesty  in  medicine.  But  on  another  evening,  after  another  library-board  meeting,  when  they  had  had  to  deal  with  a  group  of  evangelical  nitwits  who  wanted  a  ban  on  public  con-  sumption  of  &quot;The  Catcher  in  the  Rye&quot;  and  &quot;Slaugh-  terhouse  Five&quot;  Dr.  Roth  had  looked  up  from  his  brandy  and  said,  &quot;You  should  be  careful.  You've  lived  your  life  with  the  kind  of  will  that  could  cause  a  lot  of  problems  later.&quot;  &quot;I  know  it,&quot;  she  had  said.  But  she  didn't  know  it;  the  statement  only  brought  forth  the  familiar  feeling  of  an  unexamined  truth.  That  was  nine  months  ago,  and  the  morning  after,  when  she  had  heard  Donald  pull  out  of  the  driveway,  she  began  to  weep,  an  act  so  strange  to  her  that  she  couldn't  pinpoint  the  event  that  had  last  brought  her  to  it.  A  few  weeks  later,  both  Zilpha  and  Clare's  dog  had  been  diagnosed,  Zilpha  with  lung  and  the  dog  with  fibroid  cancer.  Down  toward  the  end  of  the  row,  the  greenness  narrowed  and  blurred,  and  then  there  seemed  to  be  a  line  of  taller  greenery.  She  quickened  her  pace  in  wan  hope  for  a  change  of  view,  butshe  slowed  down  as  the  pain  redeveloped  with  the  swiftness  of  her  walking,  though  luckily  enough  the  pain  had  moved  to  the  left  side  of  her  head,  where  it  was  more  confinable.  On  the  left  side  Clare  could  reduce  the  pain  to  a  diffuse  green  light,  then  work  con-  sciously  on  reducing  the  dimensions  of  the  light.  The  only  side  effect  was  that  her  sense  of  time  became  utterly  jum-  bled,  which  was  vertiginous  but  prefer-  able  to  the  pain.  During  one  ofthese  seizures,  and  in  this  particular  state,  the  best  she  could  do  was  remember  to  feed  the  dog.  Out  in  the  field,  all  that  was  required  was  to  walk  a  straight  line.  In  fact,  she  thought  she  was  moving   within  the  heart  of  time.  Normally  she  stood  aside  and  lived  on  her  comments  to  herself  about  what  was  happening  to  her,  but  when  the  pain  moved  to  the  left  she  moved  inside  herself,  and  this  had  the  virtue  of  being  novel  within  the  framework  of  her  suffering.  The  pain  was  always  a  moment  behind  her,  as  if  she  stood  on  the  platform  of  a  caboose  watching  the  world  go  away.  There  was  a  sudden  impulse  to  pray,  butshe  found  the  act  embarrassing  because,  of  course,  she  could  see  herself  praying.  When  she  was  a  child,  up  near  Petos-  key  on  summer  vacation,  her  parents  had  allowed  her  to  go  to  Daily  Vaca-  tion  Bible  School  with  the  maid's  daughter.  The  maid  was  a  mixed-blood  Chippewa  but  her  religion  was  evan-  gelical,.  Clare's  parents  had  once  dis-  covered  their  daughter  out  in  the  ga-  rage  praying  over  a  three-legged  cat  that  lived  in  the  neighborhood.  This  was  viewed  as  highly  amusing  and  became  part  of  a  repertoire  of  &quot;Clare  stories&quot;  her  parents  shared  with  their  friends  during  the  rites  of  the  Martini  hour.  Now,  to  her  surprise,  that  made  Clare  angry.  What  was  the  point  of  being  angry  at  her  parents  for  some-  thing  that  happened  over  forty  years  ago,  but  then  what  was  so  funny  about  a  child  praying  for  a  three-legged  cat?  In  defiance,  she  dropped  to  her  knees  but  couldn't  think  of  anything  to  say,  so  got  up  again.  Dr.  Roth  should  see  her  now.  He  liked  to  think  that,  all  efforts  of  the  glitz  media  to  the  con-  trary,  life  is  Dickensian,  and  pathos  is  invariably  the  morning's  leading  news  item.  Clare  with  dusty  knees  and  a  verbless  prayer  would,  no  doubt,  amuse  him.  It  had  taken  Dr.  Roth  several  years  to  set  Clare  straight  over  the  fact  that  Donald  was  an  anti-Semite,  albeit  a  quiet  one.  Clare  had  invited  Dr.  Roth  and  his  wife  to  a  large  dinner  party,  and  late  in  a  rather  boozy  evening  Dr.  Roth  had  made  an  acid  but  very  funny  comment  about  Richard  Nixon,  which  everyone  had  laughed  at  but  Donald,  to  whom  Nixon  was  an  object  of  rever-  ence.  &quot;Golly,  but  you  guys  can  be  smart-asses,&quot;  Donald  had  said,  and  the  table  had  become  so  quiet  that  Zilpha  had  plunged  courageously  ahead  with  a  lame  joke.  When  everyone  left,  Clare  was  instantly  furious,  partly  at  herself  for  letting  the  first  incident  pass.  Years  before,  they  had  been  visiting  friends  in  Palm  Beach,  the  real  purpose  of  the  trip  being  to  pick  up  the  dog  from  other  friends.  They  had  all  eaten  dinner  at  the  Sandpiper  Club  and  their  host  had  proudly  announced  that  the  club  was     " b"off-limits  to  Jews.  Clare  had  merely  said  that  she  found  the  fact  odd  just  twenty-five  years  after  the  Second  World  War  and  let  it  drop,  though  the  comment  put  everyone  on  edge.  Before  bedtime,  Donald  had  said  something  critical  about  her  dinner  behavior,  ad-  mitting  quite  pompously  that  he  agreed  with  the  club  policy.  She  had  only  looked  at  him  and  said,  &quot;I  see.&quot;  Next  morning,  the  joy  of  picking  up  the  yellow  Labrador,  who  was  being  given  away  for  littering  the  pristine  lawn  with  stray  coconuts  and  palm  fronds,  made  her  overlook  the  issue.  Curiously,  Dr.  Roth  was  remote  and  analytical  on  the  subject  of  anti-Semi-  tism.  He  had  grown  up  in  Ann  Arbor  in  a  sheltered  academic  family,  and  after  medical  school  had  married  a  Jewish  girl  from  [REDACTED]  whose  fam-  ily  had  been  in  the  country  well  before  the  Civil  War.  His  experience  was  limited  to  a  number  of  minor  incidents  similar  to  the  one  with  Donald.  He  tried  to  tease  his  way  out  of  Clare's  questions  by  saying  that  being  Jewish  couldn't  be  as  bad  as  being  a  manic-  depressive  or  a  woman,  and  his  wife  was  all  three.  When  Clare  insisted,  he  finally  admitted  that  his  own  Jewish  experience  could  belikened  to  her  acute  migraines,  not  in  the  degree  of  pain  but  in  the  utter  uncertainty  of  when  some-  thing  unpleasant  was  going  to  occur.  The  incident  could  be  a  small  item  in  the  paper,  say  an  inept  political  state-  ment,  or  the  recent  suicide  of  one  of  his  favorite  authors,  Primo  Levi.  The  con-  dition  of  being  Jewish  bred  a  perpetual  wariness  shared  by  all  minorities,  and  the  wariness  tended  to  become  an  irk-  some  clich\xc3\xa9  in  life  unless  one  was  care-  ful.  The  true  burden  of  awareness  had  been  carried  by  his  parents'  generation,  where  the  threat  was  all  too  specific.  One  late  afternoon  over  drinks,  he  said  something  that  disturbed  Clare-  something  to  the  effect  that  they  shared  an  economic  condition  that  was  out  of  synch,  and  definitely  out  of  sympathy,  with  ninety-nine  point  ninety-nine  per  cent  of  the  rest  of  the  world,  and  that  they  had  to  walk  an  extremely  narrow  line  so  as  not  todie  from  being  rich  freaks.  He  asked  how  Clare  and  Don-  ald  got  their  home  and  she  said  it  had  been  a  wedding  gift  from  her  moth-  er.  Dr.  Roth  said  his  own  home  had  come  from  his  father-in-law  and  when  had  either  of  them  given  more  than  nominal  consideration  to  the  purchase  of  anything-food,  clothing,  wine,  books,  cars,  vacations?  He  said  he  would  have  gone  mad  long  ago  without  the  single  day  a  week  he  spent  as  a  volunteer  at  [REDACTED]  Receiving,ahos-  pital  that  served  the  black  ghetto  and  the  poorest  whites.  Then  he  noticed  a  hurt  look  quickly  pass  across  her  face  before  she  could  conceal  it.  &quot;What  about  me,  Sam?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Oh,  your  reading  in  unpleasant  areas  and  your  migraines  keep  the  tips  of  your  toes  in  the  real  world.&quot;  &quot;'That's  not  very  much,  is  it?&quot;  &quot;It's  usually  enough.  Our  sort  doesn't  need  a  great  deal  of  conscious-  ness  to  get  by.  Most  often  sending  a  check  will  do.&quot;  &quot;I'm  not  leaving  this  shitheel  fern  bar  on  that  sour  note.&quot;  She  signalled  the  waiter  for  another  glass  of  wine.  Clare  swore  on  the  order  of  once  a  year.  &quot;'This  can't  be  another  monkey  occa-  sion.&quot;  She  was  referring  to  a  benefit  ball  they  had  attended,the  purpose  of  which  was  to  raise  money  for  new  accommodations  for  the  chimpanzees  at  the  [REDACTED]  Zoo.  Donald  was  in  Atlan-  ta  for  a  few  days  and  Dr.  Roth's  wife  had  entered  a  manic  shopping  phase  that  could  best  be  resolved  in  New  York  City.  Zilpha  had  only  recently  died  and  Dr.  Roth  thought  it  important  for  Clare  to  get  out  of  the  house.  Unfortunately,  they  were  seated  at  a  table  with  two  self-important  General  Motors  executives  whose  wives  ig-  nored  everyone,  and  an  exhausted  neu-  rosurgeon  whose  wife  obviously  want-  ed  to  be  at  a  zippier  table.  Despite  a  normal  aversion  for  talking  shop  in  front  of  laymen,  Dr.  Roth  and  the  neurosurgeon  began  some  heavy-  hearted  joking  on  the  effects  of  crack  on  the  nervous  system  of  newborn  in-  fants,  the  neurosurgeon's  punch  line  forcing  everyone  to  drink  hard  and  fast.  &quot;We're  going  to  have  to  look  at  [REDACTED]  as  a  vast  rookery  for  psychot-  ics,&quot;  the  man  said.  &quot;What's  a  rookery?&quot;  a  G.M.  wife  asked.  &quot;A  breeding  ground.  Our  dominant  product  is  psychosis.  It's  moved  ahead  of  automobiles.&quot;  \xc2\xab'That  doesn't  speak  well  for  the  future  of  the  work  force,&quot;  an  executive  huffed.  &quot;Not  unless  you're  producing  work-  er-tested  automatic  rifles,&quot;  Dr.  Roth  quipped.  That  evening  had  been  effectively  deadened  and  in  the  shitheel  fern  bar  they  tried  to  work  themselves  out  of  the  hole  they  had  dug.  &quot;I'm  tired.  Can't  you  look  in  your  catalogue  of  piths  and  gists?&quot;  Dr.  Roth  was  referring  to  aledger  Clare  had  started  at  the  university  and  continued  to  the  present,  where  she  recorded  pas-  " b" sages  of  literature  she  cherished.  He  had  been  amazed  at  Clare's  ledger-  the  range  was  boggling,  all  recorded  in  a  neat,  almost  lapidary  script,  from  Aeschylus  down  to  E.  M.  Cioran,  with  a  preponderance  coming  from  the  early  modernist  period  in  world  literature,  from  1880  to  1920.  Her  intended  but  never  finished  senior  honors  thesis  was  to  havebeen  on  Apollinaire  and  there  were  many  translated  quotes,  but  her  temperament  seemed  to  have  been  most  captured  by  Rilke.  Dr.  Roth's  own  sense  of  balance  had  been  dis-  turbed  when  he  came  across  Yeats'  notion  that  life  was  a  long  preparation  for  something  that  never  occurred.  &quot;My  piths  and  gists  don't  work  since  Zilpha  and  Sammy  died.&quot;  Sammy  had  been  the  name  of  the  female  Labrador.  Inan  instant,  Clare  relived  Dr.  Roth's  stricken  look  when  he  had  stopped  by  late  one  afternoon  for  a  drink  and  found  her  and  Zilpha  listening  to  the  Beethoven  late  quartets  while  Zilpha  held  the  fat,  stinking,  cancerous  Sam-  my  on  her  lap,  smooching  with  the  dog,  hugging  its  bulk  to  her  breast,  both  of  them  within  a  month  of  death.  &quot;I'm  thinking  hard,&quot;  Dr.  Roth  said.  &quot;Let's  not  come  to  this  place  again.  It's  full  of  binge  shoppers  trying  to  sedate  themselves.  Now,  I  know  you  have  an  aversion  to  anything  Oriental  as  being  too  passive,  even  though  you're  utterly  passive  yourself.  But  a  Wayne  State  University  student  suffering  from  ob-  vious  malnutrition  said  something  to  me  about  the  only  use  for  today  being  today.  The  only  reality  you  are  ever  going  to  get  is  the  ordinary  one  you  make  for  yourself.  In  other  words,  there's  no  big  breakthrough.&quot;  &quot;That's  awfully  grim.  Does  that  mean  there's  no  Christmas  on  earth?  And  what  does  he  do  with  the  informa-  tion?&quot;  &quot;The  'he'  is  a  she.  I  gave  her  ten  bucks  and  made  her  promise  she'd  go  eat  a  good  meal.  Then  I  loadedher  up  with  vitamin  samples.  I  don't  know  what  she  does  with  this  information.  I  only  know  she  doesn't  takecare  of  herself.&quot;  &quot;Can  I  make  a  donation?&quot;  Clare  had  become  nervous.  &quot;Not  at  the  moment.  Perhaps  later,  when  a  donation  doesn't  mean  you're  delaying  doing  something  about  your-  self,&quot;  &quot;When  you  say  'doing  something  about  yourself'  it  sounds  like  psy-  chobabble.  You  know,  thebig  section  in  Borders  Book  Shop  that  covers  self-improvement.&quot;  &quot;Pathology  can  only  be  imaginative  up  to  a  certain  point.  If  you  like,  I'll  work  on  that  sentence.&quot;  CLARE  found  herself  nearly  at  the  end  of  the  row  and  presented  with  a  barrier  she  hadn't  allowed  herself  to  comprehend  while  thinking  about  Dr.  Roth.  It  was  a  dense  thicket,  apparently  as  impenetrable  as  any  of  the  topiary  hedges  she  had  seen  in  England  and  [REDACTED].  The  thicket  grew  into  the  cornfield,  so  she  couldn't  turn  right  or  left.  She  stepped  backtwenty  feet  for  a  better  view  and  thought  she  could  make  out  thetop  of  a  cottonwood;  as  her  breathing  calmed,  she  was  sure  she  heard  flowing  water;  then  she  remem-  bered  that  amile  or  so  before  they  reached  the  rest  stop  there  had  been  a  creek  or  river  named  after  a  cow-  Guernsey,  she  thought.  Her  watch  said  that  had  been  over  two  hours  ago,  which  didn't  seem  possible.  A  creek  crossed  at  seventy  miles  an  hour  in  a  split  second  doesn't  look  threatening,  but  now  she  felt  tears  welling  up.  She  had  expected  a  barnyard  and  farmhouse  at  the  end  of  the  row,  and  now  the  compass  said  that  was  a  possibility  on-  ly  in  a  southerly  direction  since  north  was  the  interstate.  Millions  of  women  merely  leave  their  husbands;  why  had  she  fled?  She  swallowed  with  difficulty,  wishing  she  had  saved  some  of  the  cranberry  juice,  then  looked  up  at  the  thunderheads,  their  edges  lined  with  silver  from  the  descending  sun.  She  sat  down  and  made  traceries  in  the  dirt  with  the  compass  bracket.  She  had  an  impulse  to  discuss  the  situation  with  Zilpha  but  she  felt  that  would  further  loosen  her  tenuous  grip.  [REDACTED]  was  a  better  choice.  &quot;[REDACTED],  you  little  bitch,  this  is  part-  ly  your  idea.  What  do  I  do  now?&quot;  There  was  an  urge  to  be  angry,  cheap,  vulgar.  &quot;You  could  have  waited  until  Dav-  enport  and  taken  a  cab  to  the  airport  when  Dad  was  in  the  shower.&quot;  This  was  so  like  [REDACTED],  who  was  matter-of-  fact  even  in  the  cradle.  &quot;I  knew  the  pain  was  coming  and  I  lost  my  good  sense.&quot;  The  pain  was  increasing  a  bit  with  the  tinge  of  self-  pity,  so  she  stiffened  up.  At  the  clinic,  one  of  the  first  lessons  was  never  to  adopt  a  &quot;why  [REDACTED];  attitude,  which  might  precipitate  a  collapse.  &quot;You  know  very  well  your  good  sense  is  bullshit.  Remember  when  I  came  home  from  college  years  agoand  said  that  you  act  as  if  you're  living  three  feet  from  yourself?  You  were  angry  but  it's  true.&quot;  &quot;I  suppose  so,  but  let's  get  back  to  " b"the  situation  right  now.  I'm  sitting  here  in  the  dirt  and  I  don't  know  what  to  do.  Like  most  people,  I'm  only  pre-  pared  for  the  life  I've  already  lived,  none  of  which  included  this  sort  of  thing.&quot;  Clare  remained  cool  with  that  admission.  On  all  the  trips  she  had  made  to  beautiful  places  with  Zilpha,  they  had  never  camped  out,  though  twice  they  had  bought  a  lot  of  expen-  sive  equipment  that  on  return  was  do-  nated  to  the  Boy  Scouts.  [REDACTED]  and  her  husband  had  backpacked  everywhere,  even  in  the  winter  on  cross-country  skis.  &quot;For  Christ's  sake,  Mother,  you're  going  to  have  to  toughen  up.  You  said  you  read  that  book  on  camping  I  sent.  You're  going  to  have  to  get  some  water  in  your  system  to  avoid  hypothermia.  You  know  that  from  a  lifetime  of  ten-  nis,  which  I  always  thought  was  a  waste  of  time.  You  might  have  to  go  back  to  the  rest  stop  for  water.&quot;  &quot;I  refuse.  It  looks  like  it's  going  to  rain.  My  bag  is  canvas,  so  maybe  I  could  catch  some  water.&quot;  &quot;It's  important  that  you  crawl  into  that  thicket  to  stay  dry.  No  matter  how  warm  it  is  now,  if  you  get  wet  you'll  be  cold  by  nightfall.  If  you  get  desperate,  don't  forget  why  you're  doing  this.  I'd  say  you're  in  for  a  long  night  unless  you'rewilling  to  hoof  it  back  to  the  interstate.  I  hope  you'll  come  to  spend  a  few  months  with  us.&quot;  &quot;That's  kind  of  you,  but  I  have  my  heart  set  on  [REDACTED].&quot;  &quot;'That's  silly.  [REDACTED]  won't  be  the  same  for  you  as  it  was  thirty  years  ago.  You'll  be  disappointed.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  care.  Anyway,  I've  passed  through  a  few  times  since  and  I  don't  think  I'll  be  disappointed.&quot;  Clare  signed  of  on  the  phantom  conversation  with  a  wave  at  the  on-  coming  thunderheads,  which  had  be-  gun  to  rumble.  She  rechecked  the  edge  of  the  thicket,  noting  that  there  were  narrow  breaks  and  holes  that  raccoon  and  perhaps  deer  had  made.  She  crawled  into  a  small  opening  in  the  greenery  and  looked  upward,  seeing  enough  of  the  sky  to  know  that  she  would  still  get  wet  in  a  hard  rain.  She  remembered  with  a  smile  something  she  had  overheard  her  decorator  say  on  the  phone,  to  the  effect  that  his  friend  should  fasten  hisseat  belt  because  it  was  going  to  bea  bumpy  night.  President  Reagan  had  also  liked  to  quote  from  the  movies.  Then  she  recalled  how,  as  a  child  at  Thanksgiving  time  on  her  grandparents'  farm,  she  liked  to  make  small  caves  in  dried  corn  that  had  been  stacked  in  shocks.  She  felt  that  this  memory  composed  her  first  bright  idea  of  the  day  other  than  leaving  Donald,  and  she  busied  herself  uprooting  the  green  stalks,  which  came  up  easily,  and  which  she  layered  on  top  of  the  thicket.  It  was  easy,  so  she  erred  on  the  side  of  excess  until,  when  she  crawled  into  the  thicket  hole,  there  was  a  large  area  that  blocked  out  the  sky.  If  she  hadn't  been  so  thirsty,  she  would  have  been  happy  with  her  nest.  She  emptied  out  the  bag  containing  her  small  purse,  compass,  address  book,  the  beret,  the  empty  juice  can  (she  didn't  want  to  litter),  matches,  the  passport,  and  the  Tao  T\xc3\xa9  Ching.  It  had  been  Zilpha's  notion  that  the  act  of  taking  your  passport  with  you  every-  where  added  drama  to  life.  She  ar-  ranged  these  objects  like  talismans,  then  scooted  back  out  and  spread  the  bag's  mouth  open.  The  thunder  deepened  in  its  volume  and  she  looked  up  to  see  lightning  shattering  the  sky  like  luminous  tree  roots.  The  thunderclap  that  followed  had  a  sharp  edge,  as  if  the  sky  were  being  torn,  and  the  wind  came  up  suddenly,  so  that  the  pale  leaves  down  the  row  were  flapping.  Clare  backed  into  her  makeshift  cave  with  a  feeling  that  things  were  well  in  hand,  at  least  for  the  moment,  but  the  torrentthat  followed,  brief  as  it  was,  cast  her  be-  havior  in  a  fresh  light.  When  she  had  given  birth  to  [REDACTED],  that  early  May  so  long  ago,  she  had  been  able  to  hear  a  cloudburst  beyond  the  walls  and  win-  dows  of  the  delivery  room,  and  there  was  a  tinge  of  d\xc3\xa9ja  vu  in  the  present  rain.  I  had  two  children  and  lived  with  a  man  nearly  thirty  years.  I  don't  seem  to  have  a  real  idea  what  occurred  to  me.  Maybe  nobody  does,  or  just  a  few.  The  driving  rain  splattered  mud  up-  ward  andformed  puddles  in  the  open-  ing,  but  she  was  dry  and  warm  and  drowsy,  the  remnants  of  pain  merely  diffuse,  and  endurable.  She  froze,  star-  tled  at  the  slightest  movement  to  her  left,  but  then  saw  it  was  only  a  cotton-  tail,  the  same  kind  ofrabbit  that  made  herput  chicken  wire  around  her  herb  garden  back  home.  The  rabbit  studied  Clare  from  half  a  dozen  feet  away,  then  continued  feeding  on  wild-clover  shoots,  but  with  its  ears  alertly  erect  and  its  nose  trying  to  determine  if  Clare  presented  a  danger.  Within  its  ears,  on  " b"the  pinkish  lobes,  wood  ticks  dottedthe  flesh,  gorging  on  blood.  Clare  counted  seven.  She  and  the  rabbit  stared  at  each  other  so  long  that  Clare  didn't  notice  that  the  rain  had  stopped  and  the  water  caught  by  her  bag  was  both  being  absorbed  and  draining  slowly  out.  The  rabbit's  ears  stiffened  for  an  instant  at  the  sound  of  a  cock  pheasant  crowing  from  the  direction  of  the  creek,  fol-  lowed  by  the  sharp  clear  notes  of  red-  winged  blackbirds.  There  was  a  new  dimension  of  stillness  in  all  of  this  and  Clare  felt  somehow  heartened  that  the  rabbit  didn't  feel  in  danger,  much  less  know  what  a  human  was.  She  stayed  absolutely  quiet,  breathing  soundlessly  and  not  even  blinking  her  eyes  for  fear  the  rabbit  would  leave  her  alone.  Lau-  rel  should  see  her  now,  she  thought,  well  within  her  body,  moving  grace-  fully  in  the  heart  oftime;  but  then  the  rabbit  hopped  off  for  reasons  of  its  own.  The  message  wasdim  but  [REDACTED]  seemed  to  be  asking  a  question.  &quot;Mother,  what  about  the  water?&quot;  Clare  scrambled  out,  her  hands  skid-  ding  in  the  fresh  mud.  &quot;Oh,  fuck!&quot;  she  yelled,  for  the  first  time  in  her  life.  The  bag  was  soaked  butnearly  empty,  with  scarcely  a  gulp  left  down  in  a  corner.  -Garway  KinnzEuL  She  pressed  her  faceinto  it  for  fearof  losing  any  of  the  precious  water,  which  tasted  a  little  of  the  sunscreen  lotion  that  had  leaked  thereyears  ago.  How  dumb.  There  was  the  sense  that  she  was  stuck  ina  children's  story  of  enormous  dimensions,  one  of  those  old  European  tales  out  of  &quot;My  Book  House&quot;:  Remone  fled,  watching  the  barbarians  destroy  the  village,  hiding  herself  behind  a  tree  on  the  edge  of  the  dark  forest.  Clare  supposed  that  even  if  she  did  make  her  way  back  to  the  rest  stop  and  drop  a  quarter  in  the  pay  phone  the  world  could  never  repair  itself.  With  a  smile,  she  imagined  Donald's  umbrage  when  the  police  asked  him  if  he  had  abused  his  wife.  And  did  he  know  who  might  own  theredcar  travelling  east?  It  was  she  who  had  set  fire  to  the  village  before  running  into  the  dark  forest,  and  now  the  conse-  quences  enlarged  themselves  as  the  sun  reappeared,  casting  a  golden,  late-af-  ternoon  light  off  the  tassels.  She  was  a  free  woman  but  would  gladly  have  traded  anything  for  a  quart  of  cold  water.  Donald  was  also  free  to  go  home  and  soothe  his  wounds  with  his  Bing  Crosby  collection,  which  he  liked  to  tell  visitors  &quot;was  known  far  and  wide,&quot;  at  35  least  among  other  collectors.  Clare  was  not  a  bully,  though,  and  raised  in  her  mind  some  of  Donald's  good  points:  he  was,  surprisingly,  a  relentless  lov-  er;  he  had  taken  [REDACTED]  and  Donald,  Jr.,  everywhere,  from  [REDACTED]  to  Busch  Gardens,  the  Smithsonian,  and  the  Museum  of  Natural  History  in  New  York  (while  Clare  was  at  the  Whitney),  to  [REDACTED]  Pistons  games,  to  the  Lions,  to  the  Red  Wings,  to  their  corporate  box  for  the  [REDACTED]  Tigers,  whileClare  stayed  home  and  read  or  went  on  outings  with  Zilpha.  Donald  loved  the  life  outside  the  mind  and  slept  like  arock,  though  he  had  recently  surprised  her  with  a  first  edition  of  &quot;Tar&quot;  to  round  outher  Sherwood  Anderson  collection.  And  last  Christ-  mas  he  had  managed  tofind  Faulkner's  book  of  poems  &quot;A  Green  Bough,&quot;  which,  she  overheard  him  telling  a  friend,  cost  him  &quot;an  arm  and  a  leg.&quot;  Clare  cleaned  the  drying  mud  off  her  hands  with  a  sharp  stone  and  tried  not  to  think  of  water.  Perhaps  the  begin-  ning  of  the  end  had  been  five  years  ago,  when  Donald,  Jr.,  had  just  finished  his  sophomore  year  at  the  University  of  [REDACTED].  Clare  and  Zilpha,  on  whim,  had  been  late  additions  to  a  list  of  matrons  who  wished  to  go  on  a  [REDACTED]  Institute  of  Arts  tour  of  the  museums  of  [REDACTED]  and  Leningrad.  Zilpha's  visa  had  come  in  ten  days  but  Clare's  had  never  arrived,  despite  repeated  phone  calls  from  her  travel  agent  to  [REDACTED],  and  they  had  missed  the  trip.  Zilpha's  husband,  whom  Donald  loathed,  was  a  big-time  liberal  dope-  lawyer,  and  through  the  intercession  of  a  congressman  he  discovered  that  Don-  ald  had  jinxed  the  visa  with  a  phone  call  to  a  friend  in  the  State  Department  -the  sort  of  favor  that  is  due  a  major  Republican  fund-raiser  like  Donald.  When  Clare  confronted  him,  he  had  affected  a  minor  breakdown,  saying  he  couldn't  have  borne  up  under  the  strain  of  his  beloved  wife's  visiting  the  &quot;evil  empire.&quot;  Untypically,  Clare  thought  of  shooting  him  whilehe  slept,  but  instead  she  and  Zilpha  went  off  to  Costa  Rica  to  visit  one  of  the  children  whose  sur-  vival  a  brochure  and  a  letter  said  she  sponsored.  This  trip  had  also  made  Donald  frantic,  even  given  the  assur-  ances  of  his  State  Department  friend  that  Costa  Rica  was  &quot;as  safeas  Swit-  zerland.&quot;  Clare  was  beginning  to  feel  the  mild  dizziness  brought  on  by  hypothermia,  a  " b"lightness  in  the  head  from  her  extreme  thirst;  vomiting,  plus  the  long  hot  walk,  had  pushed  her  to  the  edge  of  tolerance,  and  though  the  late  after-  noon  sun  was  dimming,  she  found  it  unendurable.  Back  in  her  green  cave,  she  felt  she  was  owed  another  reassur-  ing  message  from  [REDACTED],  when  her  eyes  lit  on  the  cranberry-juice  can.  She  remembered  that  the  camping  book  [REDACTED]  had  given  her  said  to  boil  suspi-  cious  water  for  fifteen  minutes.  Of  course.  She  grabbed  the  can  and  scram-  bled  on  her  hands  and  knees  through  the  dense  thicket  toward  what  she  thought  ofas  the  distant  sound  of  water,  much  increased  after  the  cloud-  burst.  Unfortunately,  the  Guernsey  was  less  than  twenty  feet  distant,  and  Clare  nearly  catapulted  down  the  slick,  muddy  bank  into  the  sluggish,  dark-  brown  water,  an  inadvertent  baptism  by  immersion,  but  she  came  up  waist-deep  and  laughing.  The  world  that  had  been  so  narrowed  by  her  physical  and  mental  anguish  became  quite  suddenly  larger  as  she  filled  thecranberry-juice  can,  resisting  the  strong  temptation  to  drink  the  water  straight.  HALF  an  hour  later,  Clare  had  the  water  bubbling  away,  the  can  stuck  in  a  small  mound  of  dirt  and  the  fire  crackling  around  it,  with  the  dry  grass  and  reed  stalks  kin-  dling  the  dampish  sticks  found  beneath  the  cottonwood  tree.  To  extend  her  patience  to  the  advised  fifteen  minutes  she  looked  at  her  only  book,  the  Tao  T\xc3\xa9  Ching,  for  a  few  minutes,  but  she  was  far  too  excited  about  the  boiling  mud-  dy  water  to  concen-  trate.  The  counsellor  at  the  pain  clinic  had  told  her  that  if  she  adapted  all  the  princi-  ples  of  the  volume  to  her  life  she  could  very  wellbe  cured  of  her  migraines.  Dr.  Roth  had  not  been  sanguine  about  this  prospect,  saying  that  if  she  were  Pope  John  XXIII  or  Martin  Buber  or  St.  Theresa  she  would     also  be  free  of  the  disease.  Clare  carried  the  book  along,  though  she  had  a  child-  ish  aversion  to  Orientals,  because  the  translator  had  also  done  her  favorite  volume  of  Rilke,  &quot;Sonnets  to  Orphe-  us.&quot;  The  aversion  had  been  occasioned  by  her  father's  service  as  a  major  during  the  Second  World  War,  though  he  never  got  beyond  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED]  One  day  Clare  stayed  home  from  nurs-  ery  school  in  order  to  ride  along  with  her  mother  when  she  took  her  dad  to  the  train  station.  He  had  been  home  on  leave  for  only  a  few  days  when  he  was  called  back  to  [REDACTED],  and  both  of  her  parents  had  wept  at  the  station.  After  the  train  pulled  away  her  mother  had  told  her,  &quot;He's  off  to  fight  Tojo.&quot;  Clare  knew  that  Tojo  chopped  the  heads  off  556e6974656420537461746573n  soldiers,  and  she  was  terribly  frightened  at  the  idea  of  a  headless  father.  At  the  clinic  in  [REDACTED]  she  had  become  friendly  with  a  wheat  farmer  from  Fort  Dodge,  [REDACTED],  who  was  suf-  fering  from  a  spinal  defect,  the  accompanying  spasms  of  which  could  strike  him  to  the  ground  at  any  time.  When  they  had  all  been  given  the  Tao  one  evening  at  dinner,  he  had  been  irritable,  but  in  the  morning  he  assured  Clare  that  the  &quot;secrets&quot;  of  the  book  might  save  them.  She  was  startled  at   this  statement,  because  Frank,  the  farmer,  was  critical  of  their  counsellor,  whom  he  referred  to  as  a  &quot;goofy  bas-  tard,&quot;  partly  because  the  counsellor  wore  an  earring.  Frank  had  also  been  outspoken  against  an  Italian  from  Al-  bany  with  a  bone  disease  who  had  told  Clare  at  the  dinner  table  that  she  had  &quot;nice  stems.&quot;  Frank  had  fairly  shouted  at  the  Italian  to  mind  his  language.  A  plump  woman  from  Pasadena  had  piped  up  that  there  was  nothing  dirty  about  good  legs,  and  the  table  had  agreed,  Frank  leaving  in  a  huff  before  dessert.  After  that,  despite  the  heat,  Clare  had  worn  slacks  rather  than  hik-  ing  shorts.  She  carefully  eased  the  can  out  of  the  mound  of  dirt  with  her  handkerchief,  managing  to  burn  the  tip  of  a  finger,  which  she  ignored.  Now  she  had  to  wait  for  the  water  to  cool  sufficiently  and  glanced  to  the  west  at  the  setting  sun,  guessing  that  she  had  another  hour  of  daylight.  She  hoped  to  heat  the  six-ounce  can  at  least  three  more  times,  plus  an  extra  for  the  night,  before  dark,  and  the  sure  thought  of  removing  this  manic  thirst  made  her  feel  giddy.  It  was  so  utterly  ordinary,  this  thirst,  that  it  returned  her  solidly  to  earth,  the  only  concern  being  for  immediate  comfort.  &quot;[REDACTED],  I'm  doing  rather  well,  considering.  I  was  just  wondering  if  there  were  rattlesnakes  around  here.&quot;  &quot;That's  unlikely.  They  prefer  rocky  hill-  sides,  where  they  can  find  rodents.  I  heard  there  are  a  fewmocea-  sins  in  the  southern  part  of  the  state,  but  they'd  be  a  rarity,  and  you're  well  up  in  the  middle.  The  main  problem  might  be  mos-  quitoes.&quot;  &quot;I've  already  no-  ticed  that.  At  what  point  does  the  daughter  become  the  mother?&quot;  &quot;You're  not  ready  for  that.  I  bet  you  still  get  a  few  passes.&quot;  &quot;Perhaps.  I  certain-  ly  don't  want  totalk  about  it  to  my  daugh-  ter.&quot;  'Back  in  high  school  my  friends  and  " b" I  used  to  wonder  if  youand  Zilpha  had  some  boyfriends  stashed  on  your  out-  ings.  We  thought  you  two  were  so  thrilling.&quot;  &quot;Everyone  suspected  that  we  might  have  gentlemen  friends,  and  it  was  fun  to  let  them  think  so.  It  used  to  drive  your  father  a  bit  crazy,  and  I'd  say,  'But  dear,  you  go  on  business  trips  at  least  once  a  month  and  I  don't  wonder  about  you.)  3)  &quot;You  never  suspected  him?&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  really  care.&quot;  &quot;Then  why  did  you  hold  on  so  long?&quot;  &quot;I  had  my  friends,  my  books,  dogs,  garden,  my  children.  Why  does  a  hus-  band  have  to  be  the  absolute  center  of  a  married  woman's  life?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know,  but  they  always  are.  Actually,  I  know  you're  the  center  of  his  life,  with  making  money  a  close  second.&quot;  &quot;Are  you  suddenly  getting  warm  about  your  father?&quot;  &quot;No,  it  was  only  an  observation.&quot;  &quot;I'm  the  center  like  a  prized  posses-  sion.  Remember  when  I  wouldn't  go  to  any  more  fund-raisers  afterI  was  in-  troduced  as  a  'prominent  Republican  wife,&quot;  with  no  name  attached?  It  seemed  to  stand  for  something  quite  out  of  focus.&quot;  &quot;That  was  funny,  alsosad.  I'm  sure  you  were  sorely  missed.  Dad  always  liked  to  pretend  we  had  more  money  than  we  did.  I  mean,  we  had  plenty,  so  why  pretend?  Kevin  pointed  out  that  my  trust  would  have  grown  as  much  in  a  savings  account  as  it  did  underDad's  care.&quot;  &quot;Was  Kevin  upset?&quot;  &quot;Not  at  all.  It's  just  Dad  always  treats  him  as  if  as  a  veterinarian  he  has  his  head  in  the  clouds,  when  if  you  pull  a  difficult  calf  orhelpa  mare  drop  a  foal  it's  pretty  realistic.&quot;  &quot;Businessmen  would  be  utterly  de-  stroyed  if  they  didn't  think  they  were  the  most  practical  men  on  earth.  Law-  yers  tend  to  be  that  way,  too.  Zilpha's  husband  used  to  say  that  a  lawyer  is  society's  proctologist.  Sadly,  that  was  the  only  charming  thing  he  ever  said.&quot;  &quot;'You  miss  her  terribly,  don't  you?  And  Sammy,  too?&quot;  &quot;'More  than  I  dreamed  possible.  Strangely,  I  couldn't  have  done  this  if  they  had  still  been  with  me.  It  was  a  pleasure  to  give  so  much  to  them,  be-  cause  I  loved  them.  Then  they  were  gone,  and  I  had  to  do  something.  I  just  tasted  my  hot  water.  It's  somewhere  between  truck-stop  coffee  and  the  aver-  age  veal  glac\xc3\xa9  in  [REDACTED]  restaurant,  the  kind  where  they  slip  in  a  bouillon  cube.  I'd  better  get  busy  now.&quot;  &quot;'Keep  me  posted.  Remember,  you  don't  have  to  spend  thenight.  There's  still  time  to  make  it  back  to  the  high-  way  if  you  hurry.&quot;  &quot;No  thanks,  dear.&quot;  Clare  finished  her  first  can  of  water  with  pleasure,  spitting  out  a  bit  of  the  grit  that  had  accumulated  at  the  bot-  tom,  then  setting  out  for  the  Guernsey  to  get  the  next.  It  was  similar  to  weed-  ingher  large  herb  garden,  becauseshe  didn't  think  about  anything  except  what  she  was  doing,  though  thoughts  might  float  easily  in  and  out.  The  difference  was  that  when  she  didn't  try  to  hold  on  to  the  thoughts  the  bad  ones  disappeared  on  their  own  ac-  cord.  On  the  third  trip,  when  her  thirst  was  somewhat  abated  and  the  sun  was  beginning  to  set,  she  made  her  way  down  the  riverbank  searching  for  more  wood.  Just  past  the  single  cottonwood  tree  there  was  a  large  branch  that  she  tugged  away  from  clinging  vines  as  if  she  had  found  the  mother  lode.  If  she  could  keep  a  small  fire  going  she  wouldn't  miss  a  flashlight  so  much.  If  you're  going  to  leave  your  husband,  take  a  flashlight.  That  was  about  as  sensible  as  the  rules  could  get  for  the  time  being.  A  movement  in  the  vines  startled  her  and  an  opossum  scurried  out,  looked  at  Clare,  and  flopped  over  in  fake  death.  She  had  seen  this  twice  before  in  her  garden  back  home  and  it  was  difficult  not  to  draw  certain  paral-  lels,  amusing  ones,  though  if  you  played  dead  long  enough  the  act  of  coming  back  to  life  was  questionable.  Of  the  seven  women  who  had  been  in  her  tennis  group  (the  A  Class)  a  decade  ago,four  had  been  divorced  in  the  past  few  years  and  none  were  doing  very  well.  But  it  was  too  easy  to  be  smug  about  her  own  passivity,  the  way  she  let  the  years  drift  gently  by,  relying  on  Zilpha's  natural  ebullience,  two  long  walks  a  day  with  Sammy,  hours  of  read-  ing  and  cooking-the  latter  more  for  herself  than  for  Donald,  who  ate  every-  thing  she  cooked  him  with  equal  gusto.  Back  at  the  campsite  she  coaxed  the  dwindling  fire  back  to  life,  broke  up  the  branches,  and  put  the  sticks  in  a  neat  pile,  stooping  there,  impatient  for  the  water  to  boil.  There  was  a  reassuring  chatterof  birds,  but  she  guessed  there  was  at  most  only  a  half  hour  of  daylight  left.  She  put  down  a  layer  of  corn  leaves,  then  pulled  up  enough  dry  marsh  grass  to  cover  them,  to  protect  her  sleep  from  the  ground's  dampness.  She  took  off  her  skirt  and  blouse,  hung  themon  a  stick,  and  held  the  clothes  over  the  fire  to  draw  out  the  slight  amount  of  moisture  left  from  her  river  " b"            plunge.  It  was  a  balmy  night,  but  with  nothing  to  wrap  herself  in  but  her  own  arms  she  was  sure  she  would  be  cold  by  morning.  It  was  so  strange  to  stand  there  nearly  naked,  feeling  the  smoke  and  heat  purl  up  her  body,  with  just  enough  darkness  to  make  her  legs  and  tummy  golden.  She  felt  good  enough  for  the  moment  not  to  have  to  think  of  herself  as  an  admirable  person.  If  Zilpha  had  been  there  she  would  have  been  smok-  ing  the  cigarettes  that  killed  her.  It  had  been  her  nature  to  defy  everything,  just  as  many  intelligent  men  drink  them-  selves  to  death.  Rightup  until  the  last  day  Zilpha  had  said  she  had  no  regrets  about  dying,  and  on  the  last  day  she  had  only  joked,  &quot;I'm  not  absolutely  sure  this  is  a  good  idea.  Too  bad  I  can't  call  and  let  you  know.&quot;  With  her  husband  her  eyes  had  brimmed  with  tears  and  she  had  merely  shaken  her  head.  It  was  by  common  consent  the  lousiest  mar-  riage  in  the  neighborhood  and  every-  one  wondered  why  they  bothered  to  hang  on.  Clare  stuck  her  clothes  stake  in  the  ground  and  decided  once  again  to  try  to  make  sense  out  of  the  Tao,  espe-  cially  a  single  line  Frank  had  thought  so  wonderful.  The  line  was  disappoint-  ingly  sparse:  &quot;Thus  whoever  is  stiff  and  inflexible  is  a  disciple  of  death.&quot;  Frank  had  said  that  he'd  spent  thirty  years  being  angry  at  the  United  States  Department  of  Agriculture  over  grain  prices  and  all  of  that  energy  had  been  wasted,  and  the  anger  had  vastlyaccel-  erated  his  back  problems.  Clare  and  Frank  had  been  talking  in  the  shade  of  an  enormous  boulder-hiding,  in  fact,  from  the  counsellor,  who  was  being  especially  captious  and  unnerving  that  day,  or  so  they  thought.  The  twelve  of  them  were  being  led  on  a  &quot;meditation  hike&quot;  and  were  supposed  to  be  dispersed  in  a  boulder-strewn  valley  to  sit  alone  and  concentrate  on  a  double-faced  question:  &quot;Do  you  want  to  live?&quot;  and,  simply  enough,  &quot;Who  dies?&quot;  There  was  also  an  admonition  to  keep  alert  for  rattlesnakes.  To  break  up  the  tedium  and  anguish  of  the  questions,  Frank  and  Clare,  through  hand  signals,  had  met  behind  the  boulder  for  a  chat.  &quot;What  the  hell  does  that  hippie  mean?  Suicide's  not  Christian.&quot;  &quot;It's  not  supposed  to  be  something  to  get  angry  about,&quot;  Clare  had  said  with-  out  a  good  deal  of  conviction.  &quot;He  says  that  our  bodies  are  quarrelling  with  themselves  and  that  makes  them  hard  to  heal.  He's  not  the  U.S.D.A.  They  don't  wear  earrings.&quot;  Frank  had  smiled,  then  developed  a  stricken  look,  so  Clare  massaged  his  back  and  shoulders.  Clare  had  seen  one  of  his  seizures  the  first  day  of  the  clinic  and  doubted  that  she  could  han-  dle  one  behind  the  boulder.  He  had  twisted  on  the  floor  of  the  dining  area,  and  at  one  point  his  entire  weight  was  supported  by  his  heels  and  the  back  of  his  head,  his  trunk  thrusting  up-  ward.  Now  his  back  soft-  ened  from  iron  to  clay  un-  der  her  hands  and  they  em-  braced  for  a  moment,  but  he  began  weeping  after  he  kissed  her.  At  the  time  she  wished  she  had  the  gump-  tion  to  seduce  him  despite  the  consequences,  whatever  they  might  be.  After  that  incident  Frank  was  embar-  rassed  when  talking  to  her,  as  if  he  had  behaved  badly,  and  she  didn't  know  how  to  tell  him  otherwise.  At  the  end  of  the  clinic  Frank's  wife  picked  him  up,  and  she  looked  overplump  and  spiteful  to  Clare.  Back  at  the  fire  Clare  felt  the  warm,  smoking  clothes  and  decided  she  wasn't  inflexible,  at  least  compared  to  Donald,  but  maybe  one  thing  wrong  with  mar-  riage,  or  smallish  social  settings,  was  that  the  comparisons  were  so  limited.  Her  brother  felt  he  never  drank  more  than  his  three  best  friends,  but  the  four  of  them  had  all  nearly  drunk  them-  selves  to  death,  and  were  at  present  all  leading  lights  in  the  A.A.  for  the  De-  troit  area.  The  sheer  taffy  in  self-  awareness  exhausted  her.  Saying  that  you  were  more  flexible  thanyour  hus-  band  was  small-minded  dogshit;  put-  ting  it  that  way  made  her  laugh  out  loud.  She  wanted  more  life,  not  &quot;Rob-  ert's  Rules  of  Order.&quot;  Crossing  a  fence  was  certainly  a  start,  a  flexible  one  at  that.  It  occurred  to  Clare  that  while  Zilpha  swore  occasionally,  and  [REDACTED]  repeatedly,  she  had  never  really  learned  how.  &quot;Fuck  you,  Donald,  you  jerk-  off,&quot;  she  whispered  to  the  gathering  dark,  but  the  oath  was  froth.  &quot;Jerk-  off&quot;  was  what  the  boys  who  worked  at  the  neighborhood  gas  station  called  " b" each  other.  They  always  glanced  down  at  her  legs  while  they  were  doing  the  windshield.  If  she  was  wearing  a  tennis  skirt  they  did  an  especially  good  job  on  the  windshield.  One  day  the  boy  she  thought  most  attractive  had  looked  up  from  her  legs  with  a  mournful  stare,  which  she  returned  rather  boldly.  For  a  moment  she  desperately  wanted  to  take  him  home  and  do  whatever.  &quot;Why  didn't  you?&quot;  [REDACTED]  laughed.  Quite  suddenly  a  blush  rose  to  Clare's  face.  She  put  on  her  warm,  smoky  clothesin  defense.  They  felt  wonderful  against  her  skin.  You're  simple-minded  if  you  think  I'm  going  to  talk  to  you  about  it.&quot;  &quot;Suit  yourself.  What  I'm  trying  to  say  is  that  your  night  is  going  to  be  long  enough  without  feeling  guilty  about  something  so  innocent.  If  you  get  hungry  just  roll  a  couple  of  ears  of  that  field  corn  in  that  wet  clay  and  lay  them  at  the  edge  of  the  fire.  By  the  time  the  clay  dries  and  hardens,  the  corn  will  be  ready.  Not  great,  but  better  than  noth-  ing.  I  love  you.  Good  night.&quot;  Clare  picked  two  ears  of  corn  and  rolled  them  in  the  remains  of  a  mud  puddle  until  they  were  covered  with  a  thickish  layer  of  clay.  It  was  a  messy  business  and  she  dried  her  hands  before  the  fire  until  she  could  flake  off  the  clay.  &quot;Be  honest  with  yourself,&quot;  [REDACTED]  chimed  in  from  the  dark.  &quot;Why?  O.K.,  then.  At  the  moment  that  boy  reminded  me  of  a  young  En-  glish  instructor  I  studied  with  as  a  freshman.  I  knew  we  both  wanted  to  make  love,  but  there  were  rules  against  it,  and  besides  we  were  too  shy.  When  I  came  back  as  a  sopho-  more  I  found  out  he  had  committed  suicide  that  summer  in  New  York  City.  Every  time  I  got  a  crush  on  someone,  they  moved  to  New  York.  I  chose  badly.&quot;  &quot;Did  he  leave  a  note?&quot;  &quot;Not  that  I  know  of.  Once,  we  had  coffee  at  a  cafeteria  and  he  gave  me  some  bad  advice.  He  told  me  that  literature  was  so  rich  with  possibility  that  I  could  safely  ignore  life  itself.  I  asked  him  why  Pasternak  had  said  that,  despite  all  appearances,  it  took  a  lot  of  vol-  ume  to  fill  a  life.  He  told  me  Paster-  nak's  reputation  had  been  discounted  by  the  higher  critics.  Two  of  his  col-  leagues  passed  our  table  and  one  of  them  winked  at  him  as  if  I  were  his  bimbo.&quot;     &quot;Which  is  what  you  wanted  to  be.&quot;  &quot;You  might  say  that.  When  I  met  your  father  I  made  sure  he  didn't  get  away.&quot;  &quot;I  know  all  about  that  one.  It  fails  to  interest.  The  corn  should  be  roasted  by  now.&quot;  &quot;Good  night,  dear.&quot;  &quot;Keep  in  touch  if  you  get  lonely.&quot;  &quot;I  will.&quot;  Clare  tapped  the  baked  clay  of  one  ear  with  her  knuckles  to  no  effect,  then  used  a  stone  to  break  it.  The  green  shucks  steamed  on  the  night  air  and  she  waited  for  them  to  cool.  HE  corn  was  much  better  than  Clare  had  reason  to  expect,  lack-  ing  sweetness  but  full-flavored.  It  was  now  dark,  but  a  three-quarter  moon  was  rising,  a  cream-colored  globe  bare-  ly  above  the  horizon.  A  full  moon  would  have  been  too  dramatic,she  reflected.  One  of  the  grandest  times  ever  with  her  father  had  been  a  long  walk  one  night  in  the  summer  during  a  full  moon  up  near  their  cottage  on  Burt  Lake.  They  had  taken  the  long  way  through  a  virgin  oak  forest  down  to  a  Chippewa  graveyard  near  the  lake,  and  her  father,  who  was  inventive  for  an  accountant,  made  up  new  variations  on  the  Robin  Hood  stories.  When  they  reached  the  white  picket  fence  of  the  cemetery,  she  clutched  his  hand  tightly  as  they  looked  out  over  the  crosses  at  the  sheen  of  the  moon  on  the  lake.  At  this  juncture  of  their  customary  walk  her  father  always  tried  to  spook  her  by  saying  in  a  whisper,  &quot;Perhaps  there'll  be  a  message  from  the  spirit  world,&quot;  but  this  time  when  he  finished  they  heard  from  far  out  on  the  lake  the  tremulous  wail  of  a  loon,  as  if  it  had  been  arranged.  He  clutched  her  hand  as  hard  as  she  did  his,  then  they  laughed  at  their  fright  and  did  unsuccessful  loon  imitations.  Clare  considered  saving  the  second  ear  of  corn  for  morning,  then  thought  why  bother,  since  she  was  surrounded  by  virtually  millions  of  them.  The  ideathat  she  probably  wouldn'thave  married  Donald  if  her  father  hadn't  died  was  less  interesting  at  the  moment  than  Robin  Hood.  Dr.  Roth  had  given  her  a  book  of  poems  called  &quot;Roots  and  Branches,&quot;  by  Rob-  ert  Duncan,  whom  she  had  never  heard  of:  the  poems  were  splendid  though  difficult,  and  now  she  could  remember  JULY  23,  1990  an  entire  passageshe  had  copied  in  her  ledger:  Robin  Hood  in  the  greenwood  outside  Christendom  faces  peril  as  if  it  were  a  friend.  Foremost  we  admire  the  outlaw  who  has  the  strength  of  his  own  lawfulness.  How  we  loved  him  in  childhood  and  hoped  to  abide  by  his  code  that  took  life  as  its  law!  Clare  stirred  the  fire  and  wondered  if  her  diminished  pile  of  sticks  would  last,  but  then  even  the  slightest  of  fires  would  suffice  to  leaven  the  balmy  night.  She  feared  the  dissociation  of  waking  up  in  the  middle  of  the  night  to  total  blackness,  though  the  moon  should  be  a  modest  compensation.  She  moved  the  wood  to  where  she  could  reach  it  from  her  green  cave,  and  firmed  some  dirt  around  her  can  of  water  so  she  wouldn't  inadvertently  tip  it  over.  She  wished  she  felt  a  little  stronger  when  she  curled  up  for  sleep,  and  thought  again  of  the  notion  of  prayer,  but  she  lacked  the  solace  of  a  religion  that  does  not  depend  on  ignoring  the  human  condition.  When  she  had  prayed  as  a  child,  God's  face  in  her  mind  was  similar  to  her  father's-the  graying  hair,  the  furrowed  brow,  the  look  that  was  essentially  kind,  but  did  not  in-  dulge  trivialities.  Her  childhood  prayer  from  Sunday  school  was  simple  enough:  &quot;Now  I  lay  me  down  to  sleep,  I  pray  the  Lord  my  soul  to  keep.  If  I  should  die  before  I  wake,  I  pray  the  Lord  my  soul  to  take.&quot;  Curled  there  on  her  bed  of  leaves  and  grass,  Clare  thought  this  prayer  lacked  a  great  deal  in  terms  of  reassurance.  She  didn't  want  the  Lord  to  take  her  soul  in  the  night;  she  wanted  to  go  to  Europe  without  having  to  listen  to  Donald's  incessant  business  prattle.  In  the  nave  of  Notre-Dame  he  had  whispered,  &quot;Remind  me  to  make  a  call,&quot;  as  if  he  ever  forgot.  In  the  Uffizi  he  couldn't  stop  saying,  &quot;I  wonder  what  this  would  bring  at  Parke-Bernet.&quot;  The  world  itself  was  a  marketing  possibility.  Before  he  had  played  his  &quot;Tracking  the  Blues&quot;  tape  today  in  the  car,  he  had  interrupted  a  favorite  Stra-  vinsky  passage  to  say  that  local  acreage  was  recovering  from  the  1985  down-  turn,  though  Donald,  Jr.,  had  said  pork  bellies  still  had  the  flutters  but  would  really  firm  up  by  Labor  Day.  A  typical  remark  from  him  would  be  something  to  the  effect  that  the  black-walnut  tree  in  their  back  yard  was  worth  seven  " b"thousand  bucks  as  furniture  veneer,  and  that  walnut-tree  thieves  were  circulat-  ing  through  the  [REDACTED],  waiting  for  the  innocent  to  go  on  vacation.  Curi-  ously  enough,  Donald  didn't  mind  when  she  asked  him  to  write  a  large  check  for  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  Indian  College  Fund  or  the  N.A.A.C.P.,  two  of  her  favorite  charities,  saying  something  like  &quot;those  folks  got  the  wrong  end  of  the  stick,&quot;  as  if  all  556e6974656420537461746573n  history  had  been  a  business  deal.  Maybe  it  had  been.  Donald  had  tried  to  hedge  her  support  of  the  Nature  Conservancy  and  Greenpeace  because  he  felt  the  bird-  watchers  and  &quot;little  old  ladies  in  tennis  shoes&quot;  werecramping  certain  resort  complexes  in  northern  [REDACTED]  that  were  otherwise  good  investment  poten-  tials.  Clare  reminded  him  that  if  she  wasn't  already  a  little  old  lady  in  tennis  shoes  it  could  clearly  beseen  on  the  horizon.  But  how  could  you  blame  Donald  for  so  fulsomely  taking  on  the  colors  of  the  workaday  world?  Perhaps  the  lines  were  drawn  more  clearly  than  she  had  ever  thought,  and  that  was  why  she  lay  curled  in  a  thicket  staring  at  the  weak  light  of  a  cottonwood  fire.  One  autumn  afternoon  when  she  was  helping  her  father  comb  burrs  out  of  the  long  hair  of  their  English  setters,  she  had  asked  him  why  the  Bible  said  it  was  easier  for  a  camel  to  get  through  the  eye  of  a  needle  than  for  a  rich  man  to  enter  Heaven.  He  treated  the  question  grave,  ly  and  said  that  if  all  your  mind  is  full  of  is  money  you  become  crazy,  and  that  insane  people  live  in  a  private  hell  without  even  knowing  it,  and  that  in-  sane  rich  people  created  a  hell  for  a  lot  of  other  people  without  knowing  or  caring  about  it.  As  simplistic  as  this  seemed,  Clare  still  essentially  believed  it.  Her  father  said  it  and  he  looked  like  God,  though  he  had  done  a  lot  of  bad  things  to  her  without  knowing  it.  He  couldn't  have  done  them  on  purpose.  Clare  sat  up,  as  a  lump  had  begun  to  form  beneath  her  breastbone  at  this  recall  ofcertain  childhood  events.  She  put  a  fresh  stick  on  the  fire  and  watched  its  brief,  feverish  blaze.  She  always  read  herself  to  sleep,  and  the  absence  of  this  routine  was  haunting.  She  would  have  read  the  footnotes  in  the  Tao  if  there  had  been  enough  light.  She  studied  a  book  of  matches  from  a  truck-stop  res-  taurant  in  Illinois  called  R  Place,  where  they  had  stopped  for  lunch  on  the  way  out.  The  restaurant  gave  a  special  award:  inscribed  on  a  plaque  the  name  of  anyone  who  could  eat  a  four-  pound  hamburger.  The  waitress  had  told  Clare  that  the  meat  patty  was  only  a  little  over  three  pounds  but  the  bun  and  all  the  fixings  brought  the  weight  up  to  an  even  four.  For  some  reason  this  disgusted  Donald,  who  thought  the  idea  &quot;low-life.&quot;  The  waitress  pointed  out  aburly  trucker  on  the  other  side  of  the  room  who  was  on  his  way  to  victory.  Clare  excused  herself  to  wash  her  hands  and  passed  by  the  trucker  as  she  headed  for  the  bathroom,  though  the  trucker  was  well  out  of  the  way.  She  paused  at  the  table.  &quot;I  hope  you  manage.  It  looks  wonderful,&quot;  she  had  said.  &quot;You  look  pretty  damn  good  yourself.  I'd  give  you  a  bite  but  I'd  be  disqualified.&quot;  She  had  waved  and  passed  on,  won-  dering  if  the  man  had  a  wife  and  what  she  looked  like.  Now  she  reached  into  her  bag  for  her  beret,  pulling  it  on  tight  for  extra  comfort.  She  took  off  her  watch  and  stowed  it  in  the  bag,  thinking  that  if  she  kept  looking  at  it  time  itself  would  swallow  her.  When  and  if  she  emerged,  her  friends  and  acquaintances  back  in  the  neighborhood  were  bound  to  prate  of  &quot;nervous  breakdown&quot;  or  &quot;depression&quot;  during  countless  phone  calls  and  lunches.  One  of  the  favorite  local  psy-  chiatrists  was  an  ardent  pill  pusher  in  his  efforts  to  remove  any  socially  em-  barrassing  symptoms.  'The  probable  cause  in  her  case  would  be  obvious  to  all-the  deaths  of  Zilpha  and  Sammy  -but  her  marriage,  which  was  consid-  ered  solid,  would  not  be  questioned.  The  same  psychiatrist  had  offered  nothing  when  she  had  gone  to  him,  troubled  about  Donald,  Jr.,'s  apparent  lack  of  morals  in  school.  He  seduced  innocent,  homely  girls  and  kepta  tally,  cheated  wherever  possible  on  home-  work,  plagiarized  term  papers,  and  as  a  school  leader  made  problems  for  teach-  ers  who  didn't  give  him  good  grades.  The  psychiatrist  had  dismissed  all  of  this  as  Donald,  Jr.,'s  effort  to  take  shortcuts  into  his  father's  world,  and  said  that  when  sufficient  negative  re-  inforcement  came  from  his  &quot;peer  group&quot;  the  behavior  would  cease.  Unfortunately  for  this  theory,  Donald,  Jr.,  continued  to  be  widely  admired  as  charming  and  capable.  His  father  had  hoped  to  get  him  into  an  Ivy  League college,  but  his  S.A.T  .  scores  were  too  mediocre,  so  strings  were  pulled  and  he  was  accepted  at  the  University  of  [REDACTED],  where  he  became  the  presi-  dent  of  his  fraternity.  Donald,  Jr.,  had  always  been  impeccably  dressed,  even  for  a  trip  to  the  7-Eleven,  while  Lau-  rel,  who  had  gone  to  Northwestern,  was  a  slob,  drank  beer  and  smoked  marijuana,  and  graduated  summa  cum  laude.  She  had  also  been  the  best  stu-  dent  in  her  class  at  [REDACTED]  State's  veterinary  school,  neither  of  which  honors  made  more  than  a  cursory  dent  in  her  father's  consciousness.  There  was  a  rustling  in  the  thicket  off  to  the  left  and  Clare's  pulse  quickened,  but  then  a  barred  owl  called  from  the  cottonwood  and  Clare  supposed  the  other  creatures  were  mak-  ing  adjustments  to  keep  out  of  the  owl's  way.  At  one  time  Donald,  Jr.,'s  char-  acter  had  puzzled  her,  because  she  was  blinded  by  the  fact  that  he  had  been  a  much  more  loving  child  than  [REDACTED]-  helping  Clare  in  the  garden,  arranging  his  Audubon  cards,  building  bird-  houses,  acting  as  a  deft  little  &quot;sous-  chef&quot;  when  she  cooked.  It  was  as  if  during  puberty  he  had  waked  up,  looked  around,  and  decided  to  become  a  child  of  his  time.  Clare  wriggled  closer  to  the  opening  for  a  look  at  the  moon  and  stars,  then  sat  up  and  stuffed  her  bag  with  dry  grass  to  make  a  pillow.  This  camping  had  its  moments,  but  she  was  claustro-  phobic  enough  to  dread  tents,  elevators,  and  theatre  lines,  and  the  stars  and  moon  were  a  tonic  after  the  dark  lid  of  her  thicket.  There  was  still  the  slight,  est  twinge  of  pain  in  her  left  lobe,  and  she  monitored  the  size  of  the  speck  of  green  light.  She  heard  a  strain  of  Monteverdi,  then  abar  of  &quot;The  Fire-  bird,&quot;  and  the  light  diminished.  With  [REDACTED]  the  light  was  steady,  but  the  images  of  Donald  and  Donald,  Jr.,  in-  creased  it.  She  searched  for  good  memories  to  control  her  fear  of  another  attack.  When  they  were  first  married  and  Donald  had  just  entered  the  firm  as  an  assistant  office  manager,  he  still  wore  his  lumberjack  shirts  in  the  evening  and  on  weekends.  He  hadn't  finished  his  senior  thesis,  an  essay,  ironically  enough,  on  Thorstein  Veblen's  &quot;The-  ory  of  the  Leisure  Class,&quot;  so  through  the  long  winter  of  the  pregnancy  Clare  had  actually  written  most  of  it  for  him.  She  thought  Donald  talked  brilliantly  " b"but  didn't  write  well,  while  she  was  shy  but  wrote  well,  if  a  little  too  carefully.  Some  of  Donald's  politically  active  friends  from  [REDACTED]  State  were  back  in  the  [REDACTED]  area  and  they  all  met  at  least  once  a  week.  Donald  would  regale  them  with  stories  about  the  &quot;bourgeoi-  sie&quot;  at  work  and  in  the  neighborhood  near  their  [REDACTED]  apartment.  Clare's  mother  had  busied  herself  in  her  grief  over  her  husband's  death  by  drinking  even  more  than  usual  and,  once  Clare  was  married,  shopping  for  a  perfect  home  for  her  daughter.  Clare's  brother  Ted,  younger  by  five  years,  was  in  his  junior  year  at  Kent,  aprepschool  in  [REDACTED],  his  fourth  in  four  years.  When  her  mother  had  finally  found  the  house,  she  and  Clare  had  spent  a  great  deal  of  time  overseeing  the  redecorating.  Clare  was  unconcerned  and  felt  the  project  was  good  therapy  for  her  mother.  Meanwhile,  she  and  Donald  and  their  scrubby  friends  ate  at  expensive  Polish,  Italian,  Chinese,  and  Greek  restaurants,  and  went  to  the  wonderful  movies  of  those  times:  all  of  Bergman,  Fellini,  and  the  early  Antonioni.  They  marched  with  other  civil-rights  protesters,  hand  in  hand  with  blacks,  and  listened  fervently  each  Sunday  morning  to  the  wild-eyed  ser-  mons  of  the  Reverend  C.  L.  Franklin,  Aretha's  father.  They  actually  shook  hands  with  the  great  man  himself,  Martin  Luther  King,  Jr.  He  had  said  to  Donald,  &quot;Keep  up  the  good  work,  brother,&quot;  and  Donald  had  beamed.  Like  so  many  others,  they  had  been  paralyzed  with  fear  by  the  Cuban  mis-  sile  crisis.  Clare  had  been  reading  Wil-  liam  Faulkner's  &quot;The  Reivers&quot;  when  she  heard  on  the  radio  that  President  Kennedy  had  been  shot  in  [REDACTED].  Don-  ald  rushed  home  from  work  and  they  wept  together,  glued  to  the  icy,  cata-  tonic  replays  on  television.  One  evening  after  [REDACTED]  was  born  but  before  they  had  moved  into  the  house,  all  of  their  friends  had  come  over  for  dinner  and  to  listento  blues  and  jazz  records  on  their  new  stereo.  Donald  discoursed  on  Charlie  Parker,  Muddy  Waters,  B.B.  King,  and  the  primitive  disks  recordedby  Alan  Lo-  max  before  carefully  putting  the  needle  on  the  record.  Among  their  favorites  were  Forest  City  Joe  singing  &quot;Chevro-  let&quot;  and  Vera  Hall's  &quot;Can't  You  Hear  ThatWild  Ox  Moan?&quot;  Clare  thought  |  I,  that  perhaps  that  evening  had  been  the  beginning  of  the  end.  [REDACTED]  had  been  sick  with  a  cold,  and  Clare  was  a  distinctly  amateur  cook.  Hearing  of  the  party,  her  motherhad  volunteered  to  send  over  a  little  something  from  the  club.  Two  waiters  showed  up  at  8p.m.  sharp,  when  theguests  were  groggy  from  Gallo  Burgundy  and  famished  to  despair.  Clare  went  into  the  bathroom,  embarrassed  to  the  point  of  tears  when  the  food  arrived.  She  primped  herself,  wiped  away  her  tears,  blew  her  nose,  and  emerged  when  she  heard  the  shouts  of  joy  from  the  other  room.  There  were  only  ten  to  feed  but  her  mother  had  sent  overa  huge  prime-rib  roast,  a  Smith-  field  ham,  side  dishes  including  six  dozen  oysters,  a  mixed  case  of  French  wine,  and  two  cases  of  imported  beer.  Their  friends  were  utterly  thrilled  with  the  food,  greeting  it  without  a  single  negative  comment.  They  ate,  drank,  danced,  and  laughed,  and  at  the  bleary  end  of  the  party  Clare  wrapped  up  ample  packages  of  leftovers  for  each  of  the  guests.  In  the  morning,  they  had  the  first  serious  argument  of  their  marriage,  over,  oddly  enough,  a  novel  by  James  Baldwin  and  a  profile  of  Malcolm  X  in  [REDACTED]  newspaper.  A  week  later  they  moved  into  the  house  and  things  were  never  the  same  again,  nor  were  they  meant  to  be.  Despite  his  jokes  about  work,  Donald  hadbecome  a  well-con-  cealed  predator,  a  skilled  manipulator  -something  he  had  learned  as  a  politi-  cal  activist-and  was  earning  a  degree  in  accounting  at  night  school  at  the  University  of  [REDACTED].  During  the  longish  evenings  alone  Clare  had  be-  gun  reading  again  and  hadn't  stopped  since.  Over  the  long  haul  she  couldn't  have  endured  Donald  without  her  books.  Two  years  after  [REDACTED],  who  had  been  nicknamed  Papoose,  Donald,  Jr.,  was  born,  and  when  Donald  ar-  rived  lateat  the  hospital  with  three  dozen  roses  he  announced,  in  his  first  tailored  suit,  that  he  had  been  elected  a  member  of  the  [REDACTED]  Athletic  Club.  Clare  put  down  the  book  she  was  read-  ing,  anovel  called  &quot;The  Deer  Park,&quot;  by  Norman  Mailer,  in  which  there  wereno  deer  to  be  found  but  lots  of  intriguing  bad  behavior.  She  remem-  bered  looking  closely  at  Donald  -a  long  pause  during  which  she  waited     JULY  23,  1990  patiently  for  him  to  mention  the  birth  of  his  son.  CLARE  dozed  for  a  half  hour,  waking  fearfully  with  a  deep  chest  pain,  then  smiling  because  she  had  rolled  over  and  clenched  a  fist  against  her  heart,  mistaking  the  sensation  for  an  attack.  The  fire  was  down  to  embers,  and  she  decided  to  usethe  largest  of  the  sticks  in  hope  that  it  would  last  until  she  slept  long  and  deeply.  She  strained  above  the  hiss  and  sputter  of  the  fire  to  hear  something  just  on  the  edge  of  the  audible.  There  it  was  again.  And  again.  A  dog  barking  farto  the  south-  east,  in  some  barnyard,  she  imagined,  at  the  outer  edge  of  theare  thrown  by  a  porch  light,  the  dog's  body  stiffening  as  it  barked  at  the  night  as  Sammy's  body  had  always  done  just  before  bed-  time.  It  was  an  unimaginably  comfort-  ing  sound  and  her  eyes  teared.  How  wonderful  it  would  have  been  to  have  the  dog  with  her,  not  for  protection  (Sammy's  bravura  was  mostly  fake)  but  for  companionship.  Sammy  had  been  afraid  of  cats  and  snakes,  but  her  thunderous  bark  warned  away  possible  intruders  and  door-to-door  salesmen  and  haltedthe  irksome  approach  of  Jehovah's  Witnesses.  For  unclear  rea-  sons,  she  liked  the  Federal  Express  man  but  loathed  the  one  for  [REDACTED]  The  furnace  repairman  once  threw  her  into  a  fearsome  rage,  which  caused  Clare  to  offer  an  embarrassed  apology  after  she  had  closed  Sammy  up  in  the  garage.  The  man,  who  was  about  her  own  age,  and  black,  looked  at  her  strangely,  then  offered  his  hand.  It  turned  out  they  had  been  in  a  civil-rights  march  together  well  over  twenty  years  before,  and  the  man's  little  son,  who  had  played  with  [REDACTED]  in  Hart  [REDACTED],  now  taught  high-school  science  in  Ypsilanti.  When  the  repairman  left  it  wasn't  a  happy  occasion,  because  the  interven-  ing  years  acquired  the  sharpest  of  focusses.  The  man  had  mentioned  see-  ing  her  name  in  the  [REDACTED]  News,  where  she  had  been  referred  to  rather  nastily  as  a  &quot;well-heeled  liberal  envi-  ronmentalist.&quot;  At  dinner,  when  she  had  brought  up  the  repairman  Donald  became  vague  and  nearly  morose  for  a  minute.  It  had  been  difficult  for  him  lately,  since  one  of  his  minor  saving  graces  was  an  abiding  concern  for  probity  in  govern-  ment,  and  the  successive  scandals  in  Pentagon  procurement,  HUD,  and  the  enormity  of  the  savings-and-loan  mess     " b"disturbed  him  deeply.  She  tended  to  go  easy  on  him  on  the  rare  oc-  casions  when  he  be-  came  vulnerable.  They  usually  avoided  politi-  cal  discussions,  in  any  case,  settling  for  can-  celling  each  other's  vote  at  the  polls.  [REDACTED],  however,  was  merciless,  and  could  redden  Donald's  face  by  saying  that  she  wanted  to  go  to  Costa  Rica  and  speak  Latin  just  like  Dan  Quayle.  [REDACTED]  had  never  been  particularly  interested  in  novels  or  poetry,  and  her  single  literary  quote  was  from  Yeats:  &quot;'The  best  lack  all  conviction,  while  the  worst  are  full  of  pas-  sionateintensity.&quot;  That  appeared  to  sum  up  [REDACTED]'s  feelings  to-  ward  the  political  world.  Donald,  Jr.,  tended  merely  to  bea  more  cynical  version  of  his  father.  Clare  herself  had  come  to  a  point  where  all  the  highest  hopes  of  her  twenties  had  been  dimin-  ished  to  the  degree  that  she  was  rele-  gated  to  writing  checks  to  distant  or-  ganizations  and  trying  to  savethe  oc-  casional  pond,  creek,  or  sorry  woodlot  in  [REDACTED].  The  heady  idealism  of  the  Labor  State  had  died  with  Walter  Reuther,  and  the  prospects  for  social  services  and  the  environment  had  be-  come  dismal  in  the  face  of  lobbyists'  opportunism.  Fortunately,  the  thought  of  politics  had  made  her  sleepy-though  &quot;sod-  den&quot;  might  be  a  better  word,  she  thought.  She  heard  the  dog's  bark  a  little  more  clearly,  and  there  was  an  eerie  moment  when  she  thought  it  might  be  the  ghost  of  her  own  dog,  but  the  image  of  it  barking  out  its  loneli-  ness  under  the  porch  light  was  domi-  nant.  The  stars  and  the  moon  didn't  seem  quite  high  enough,  and  she  re-  membered  Donald's  chagrin  when  she  had  insisted  that  they  add  a  master  bedroom  with  a  sixteen-foot  ceiling.  Clare  couldn't  stay  in  newish  hotels  where  the  windows  didn't  open.  But  she  often  regretted  her  mother's  gift  of  a  house  so  soon  after  they  were  mar-  ried.  Money  tends  to  derange  people  when  it  arrives  so  abruptly,  and  the  house  wasn't,  ultimately,  fair  to  Don-  ald.  The  ceilings  were  wonderfully  high  in  Europe  but  the  less  equitable  society  there  made  her  nervous  after  a  few  weeks.  When  this  was  over,  she  intended  to  live  in  an  apartment  or  in  a  smallish  house  on  the  far  edge  of  a  town.  It  would  be  near  a  woods,  and  farm  country.  She  would  find  a  job  in  a  library  or  bookstore  where  she  could  make  herself  useful-a  sense  she  had  lost  since  Donald,  Jr.,  had  gone  off  to  college.  The  woman  who  ran  the  local  office  for  the  charity  in  Costa  Rica  had  called  herself  an  overworked  volunteer,  and  that  sounded  good  to  Clare.  The  woman  had  advised  against  visiting  the  child,  and  she  was  right.  The  family  had  been  fearful  that  something  might  be  taken  from  them,  that  they  were  being  judged,  but  they  had  warmed  to  Zilpha,  and  the  atmosphere  eventually  became  relaxed  in  the  one-room  stucco  cottage  near  Puntarenas.  Clare  traced  a  finger  across  the  dew  gathering  on  her  face,  and  her  thoughts  became  more  random.  She  had  learned  enough  Spanish  to  trans-  late  the  thank-you  notes  from  the  child,  who  was  now  in  her  early  teens.  The  parents  had  been  shy  during  the  visit,  but  the  second  child,  a  boy  of  seven,      who  was  perfectly  round,  had  thought  everything  about  Zilpha  was  funny.  Clare's  mother  definitely  had  been  a  problem  drinker,  and  Clare  thought  again  of  the  nightmares  caused  by  rich,  overgenerous  alcoholics.  The  new,  homely  word  &quot;yuppie&quot;  had  been  de-  vised  for  the  grandchildren  of  the  De-  pression,  and  she  wondered  how  grace-  fully  they  would  age.  Another  ugly  word  was  &quot;schmucks.&quot;  Last  Christmas  when  Donald,  Jr.,  had  come  home  from  [REDACTED]  with  a  rather  pretty  but  vacant  girl,  he  told  Clare  her  &quot;main  problem&quot;  was  that  she  expected  too  much  from  people  when  they  were  really  only  schmucks.  Sleep  was  too  far  away  for  the  clum-  siest  of  prayers.  She  got  up,  put  another  stick  on  the  fire,  and  looked  at  her  bed  in  the  brief  yellow  flare-up.  It  was  the  nest  of  a  not  very  skilled  animal,  a  temporary  measure  like  a  deer  bed  in  high  grass.  She  turned,  and  the  wide  aisle  she  had  come  down  a  lifetime  ago  was  now  aligned  with  the  moon-a  darkling  path  between  silvered  leaves  that  a  breeze  was  lightly  rustling.  It  was  a  path  from  a  children's  book  of  the  twenties,  the  goldenage  of  illustra-  tion,  lovely,  foreboding,  irresistible.  She  decided  to  walk  herself  to  sleep,  as  she  had  done  so  often  with  her  dog  at  " b"home.  Donald  had  bought  her  a  small  pistol,  which  she  never  took  along,  because  the  presence  of  a  pistol  would  have  changed  the  nature  of  the  walk.  And  Sammy,  though  still  frightened  by  cats,  thought  herself  a  grizzly  bear  after  dark.  Besides,  Clare  was  in  fine  trim,  and  asked  Donald  why  they'd  remained  in  so  otiose  a  neighborhood  if  it  wasn't  the  safest  in  the  [REDACTED]  area.  She  could  tell  he  didn't  know  what  &quot;otiose&quot;&quot;  meant,  but  pretended  he  did  as  he  watched  Pisor,  his  favorite  late-  news  baritone.  Ok,  forget  Donald,  she  reminded  herself.  I  am  here  because  he  isn't.  She  set  off  at  a  relaxed  but  steady  pace,  fixed  on  the  moon  as  if  she  were  trying  to  walk  to  a  place  directly  under  it.  After  a  few  hundred  yards,  she  quickened  her  gait  and  felt  that  de-  lightful  sense  that  her  joints  had  be-  come  oiled,  and  the  night  air  was  sweet  and  drinkable.  Dr.  Roth  liked  to  say  that  the  overexamined  life  was  not  worth  living,  and  that  the  quasi-upper-  class  life  had  become  the  most  banal  of  self-improvement  videos.  God  damn,  but  her  mind  was  so  exhausted  with  trying  to  hold  the  world  together,  tired  of  being  the  living  glue  for  herself,  as  if  by  her  letting  go  great  pieces  of  her  life  would  shatter  and  fall  off  in  mock-  ery  of  the  apocalypse.  Or  her  mind  would  simply  deflate,  letting  off  its  sour  air  like  a  punctured  rubber  ball.  She  was  delighted  when  she  thought  she  saw  the  moon  move  a  bit,  as  it  must.  Time  moved  the  moon.  You  should  be  lucky  enough  to  be  there  when  the  tree  falls  in  the  desert.  Dr.  Roth,  who  was  fascinated  with  the  history  of  reli-  gions,  gave  her  what  he  called  a  &quot;nice  Jewish  present&quot;:  &quot;The  Un-  varnished  Gospels,&quot;  a  new  trans-  lation  by  Gaus.  The  language  was  so  stark  and  commonplace  that  it  was  almost  unreadable.  The  world  is  likely  commonplace,  she  thought.  There  was  the  amusing  memory  of  the  second  term  of  her  sophomore  year,  when  East  Lansing  was  frozen  in  dirty  ice.  She  had  met  a  boy  in  the  periodicals  room  who  was  reading  her  favorite  literary  journal,  Botteghe  Oscure,  edited  in  4974616c79  by  Marguerite  Caetani.  Clare's  secret  am-  bition  was  to  become  Marguerite  Caetani's  secretary  and  meet  the  French  poet  Ren\xc3\xa9  Char,  whose  long  poem  &quot;To  a  Tensed  Serenity&quot;  was  in  the  latest  issue.  The  boy  reading  the  journal  was  shabby,  condescending,  an     avowed  &quot;beatnik&quot;  who  smelled  strong-  ly  of  potato  chips.  She  found  him  excit-  ing,  though  he  looked  down  his  pale,  mottled  nose  at  her  pleated  skirt  and  gray  cashmere  cardigan.  The  boy  let  her  sit  near  him  at  Kewpee's,  a  cafete-  ria  favored  by  the  intellectual  and  ar-  tistic  types,  the  latter  having  the  ad-  vantage  of  smelling  like  paint  rather  than  something  else.  She  and  the  boy  would  sit  as  close  as  possible  to  a  table  of  seniors  dominated  by  a  strange-looking  young  manwho  wore  Army  surplus  or,  on  alternate  days,  the  kind  of  suit  and  chesterfield  coat  worn  in  her  home  town.  He  was  even  more  vigorous  and  arrogant  than  her  suicidal  instructor,  and  she  and  the  boy  listened  raptly  as  the  young  man  droned  on  about  Rimbaud,  Verlaine,  Laforgue,  P\xc3\xa9guy,  Alain-Fournier,  Camus,  Kierkegaard,  Yesenin,  and  the  &quot;obvious&quot;  structure  of  &quot;Finnegans  Wake.&quot;  He  had  taken  to  glancing  at  her  legs  now  and  then,  and  once  loudly  told  a  story  about  fucking  a  fat,  drunk-  en  waitress  who  wore  an  ankle  bracelet  that  spelled  &quot;Herbert.&quot;  One  day  the  man  looked  over  at  her  and  asked  her  if  she  had  read  Dostoyevski,  especially  the  new  translation  of  his  &quot;Note-  books,&quot;  wherein  there  was  an  entry  about  a  girl  who,  one  cold  St.  Peters-  burg  afternoon,  drank  a  bottle  of  wine  and  committed  suicide  out  of  boredom.  She  answered  that  she  hadn't  read  Dostoyevski,  but  Turgenev's  &quot;Sports-  man's  Sketches&quot;  was  one  of  her  favor-  ites  (it  was  actually  her  father's  favor-  ite).  &quot;That's  good,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;but  read  'Fathers  and  Sons.'  I'm  actually  Bazarov.  Get  off  your  pretty  ass  and  read  all  of  Dostoyevski  or  you'll  become  a  punching  bag  for  some  Grosse  Pointe  fraternity  boy.&quot;  Then  the  man  stood  up  and  an-  nounced  to  his  cronies  that  it  was  time  to  get  drunk  and  play  pool.  On  the  way  out,  the  man  paused  by  her  chair  and  pronounced  loudly  that  she  was  &quot;edible,&quot;  which  confused  her  somewhat.  After  she  had  said  goodbye  to  the  boy,  she  cut  a  class  and  went  immedi-  ately  to  the  campus  bookstore  and  bought  all  of  the  Dostoyevski  in  the  Modern  Library  editions,  the  Con-  stance  Garnett  translations.  She  read  &quot;'The  Idiot,&quot;  &quot;The  Gambler,&quot;  &quot;Notes  from  Underground,&quot;  &quot;The  Pos-  sessed,&quot;  &quot;Crime  and  Punishment,&quot;  and  &quot;The  Brothers  Karamazov.&quot;  Her  eyes  were  hot  red  balls  in  her  head,but  her  life  was  changed.  The  great  Russian  had  devoured  another  piece  of  her  each  time  she  wept  over  a  hero  or  heroine,  a  grand  conception,  the  marriage  of  Heaven  and  Hell  that  was  his  peculiar  genius,  and  had  spat  her  out  in  bones  and  gristle.  But  after  she  and  the  beat-  nik  boy  had  returned  to  the  cafeteria  on  three  successive  days  they  finally  heard  that  the  young  man  had  suffered  a  nervous  breakdown  and  had  run  off  to  New  York  City,  leaving  a  wife  and  child  in  married  housing.  Clare  stayed  in  her  room  for  a  week,  until  a  dorm  counsellor  escorted  her  to  the  campus  psychiatric  clinic,  where  a  sluggish  doctor  advised  her  to  construct  some  effective  shields  against  her  emotional  life,  a  project  at  which  she  proved  most  successful.  [REDACTED]  skin  was  moist  and  her  breath-  ing  harder  as  the  darkness  of  the  path  ahead  yielded  to  a  lighter  shade  of  gray.  There  was  a  hissing  and  clicking,  which  she  might  have  taken  for  a  flying  saucer  had  she  not  recognized  the  sound  of  irrigation  sprinklers  from  the  golf  course  near  her  home.  The  corn-  field  gave  way  to  another  huge  field,  which  she  guessed  must  be  soybeans,  the  sprinklers  tossing  water  into  the  moonlight  asfaras  she  could  see  to  the  east.  Off  to  the  north  were  the  sound-  less  lights  of  trucks  and  cars  on  [REDACTED],  which  at  that  distance  seemed  to  be  travelling  slowly,  creeping  toward  [REDACTED]  or  back  west  toward  [REDACTED].  There  was  a  two-track  lane  between  the  soybeans  and  the  corn  and  she  walked  south  for  a  while,  hoping  tosee  the  light  of  a  farmhouse.  She  wanted  to  hear  the  dog  bark  but  there  was  noth-  ing,  and  she  suspected  everyone  must  be  asleep  by  now.  She  followed  a  thumping  in  the  ground  to  a  tall  thicket  of  grass  and  weeds  growing  up  around  the  main  outlet  and  valve  for  the  irri-  gation  system.  She  slid  in  a  big  puddle  but  maintained  her  balance,  the  water  pleasantly  cold  on  her  feet.  Where  the  main  pipe  curved  up  and  out  of  the  ground  there  was  a  wheel  to  turn  the  water  off  and  on,  and  a  large  connect-  ing  pipe  to  the  field,  out  of  which  came  a  steady  gout  of  water  from  a  bad  fitting.  Clare  cupped  her  hands,  paus-  ing  to  avoid  the  onset  of  a  headache  by  letting  their  warmth  cut  the  water's  icy  edge.  The  water  was  clean  and  mar-  vellous  after  the  tea-colored  sludge  from  the  creek,  and  she  stooped  there  drinking  until  she  felt  a  little  bilious.  " b"She  slipped  off  her  blouse,  skirt,  pant-  ies,  bra,  and  beret,  bathing  herself  slowly  with  her  hands.  She  did  not  feel  remotely  sorry  for  herself,  though  there  had  been  a  trace  of  self-pity  earlier.  Dr.  Roth  believed  that  it  was  the  emotion  most  injurious  to  mental  and  physical  health.  In  the  small  desert  town  near  the  pain  clinic,  a  trinket  store  sold  T-shirts  that  read  &quot;Tur  Pam  PropLE,&quot;  which  the  patients  all  bought  with  much  irony  and  humor.  Clare  let  the  breeze  dry  her  off.  People  used  to  say  &quot;buck  naked&quot;  and  that's  what  she  was,  with  more  than  a  twinge  of  desire  for  Dr.  Roth,  whose  image  had  shifted  out  of  the  dark  in  connection  with  Dostoyevski.  She  felt  quite  freeto  think  about  making  love  to  him  because  she  knew  it  would  never  happen.  It  would  break  the  etiquette  of  their  affection  for  each  other.  For  an  uncharacteristic  few  seconds  she  thought  that  any  farmer  would  do,  or  even  the  trucker  who  ate  the  four-  pound  hamburger.She  was  nearly  dry  and  thinking  about  nothing  in  particu-  lar  except  how  smooth  and  strong  her  body  was  for  her  age,  when  Dr.  Roth  arrived  again.  She  had  told  him  about  the  Dostoyevski  incident  at  the  bar  of  the  Townsend  Hotel  and  was  miffed  when  he  began  laughing.  &quot;Life  is  so  unforgiving  when  you're  nineteen,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;And  that  makes  my  sad  tale  fun-  ny?,,  &quot;If  it's  not  funny  by  now,  you  might  have  to  shoot  yourself.  That's  what  I  mean  by  unforgiving.  Actually,  if  you  shoot  anyone  it  should  be  the  psychia-  trist.  All  he  did  was  try  to  lower  the  ceilings.&quot;  &quot;I  suppose  he  was  tired  of  the  an-  guish  of  hundreds  of  nineteen-year-  olds.&quot;  &quot;Then  he  should  have  gotten  the  fuck  out  of  the  business.  You  have  to  remain  vulnerable  to  treat  the  vul-  nerable.&quot;  &quot;I'm  not  so  sure  he  could  have  said  anything  valuable.&quot;  &quot;Of  course  he  could.  He  might  have  said  that  neurotic  intellectuals  can  be  as  dangerous  as  cheese-brained  frater-  nity  boys.  He  could  have  said  if  you  really  wanted  the  guy  you  could  have  closedthe  deal  before  you  read  all  the  books,  but  it  probably  wouldn'thave  been  a  good  idea.&quot;  &quot;But  I  didn't  know  I  could  have  closed  the  deal.&quot;  \xc2\xab'That's  ladylike  bullshit.  You  knew  that  on  a  particular  level.  I  think  it's  intriguing  that  you  wanted  to  fuck  someone  for  their  mind.  I  sure  could  have  used  that  at  nineteen.&quot;  Dr.  Roth  nearly  blushed  at  this,  the  first  mention  of  sex  between  them,  albeit  abstract.  &quot;I  would  have  been  twenty-six  at  the  time,  Sam,  already  an  old  lady  to  a  nineteen-year-old  boy.&quot;  She  was  going  to  let  him  fryfor  a  moment.  &quot;That's  not  the  way  it  works.  I'd  feel  more  comfortable  talking  about  religion.&quot;  &quot;I  remember  when  I  wrote  about  Apollinaire  that  he  said  Jesus  held  the  world's  high-alti-  tude  record.  Is  that  religious  enough?&quot;  &quot;It's  definitely  safer.  We     47  had  been  making  five  hundred  thou-  sand  ayearbut  regularly  spent  seven  hundred.  This  fact  dumbfounded  Clare,  whose  extravagances  were  lim-  ited  to  a  good  bottle  of  wine  a  day  and  rare  books.  On  vacations  she  liked  de-  luxe  hotels  but  flew  tourist  class,  which  had  always  irritated  Donald.  Her  brother  Ted  had  always  seemed  a  more  elegantversion  of  Donald  and  tended  to  avoid  seeing  herexcept  around  the  holidays,  when  it  was  pro  forma.  He  had  been  to  Hazelden  in  [REDACTED]  three  times  to  dry  out,  and  his  last  trip  was  to  the  Betty  Ford  clinic,  which  still  didn't  do  the  trick.  What  finally  worked  was  a  panel  of  doc-  tors'  absolute  guarantee  that     always  liketo  thinkwe're  on  the  verge  of  danger  when  we're  nearly  immobile,  don't  he'd  die  within  a  year  if  he  continued  drinking.  His  three  failed  marriages  and  obses-           we?&quot;  &quot;I  suppose  so.  It's  nice  to  hear  that  you  think  of  yourself  as  no  more  adventurous  than  I  am.&quot;  &quot;Now  it's  my  turn  to  suppose  so.&quot;  He  hadbecome  strained  and  distraught.  &quot;That's  what  is  finally  unforgiving.  All  of  this  mythological  freedom  we  grow  up  on,  which  we  usually  get  to  express  standing  around  in  a  field  wearing  a  baseball  mitt.  Or  sailing  a  quarter-million-dollar  sailboat  down  the  [REDACTED]  River  hoping  the  water  won't  corrode  a  hole  in  the  bottom.&quot;  On  the  long  walk  back  to  her  nest,  Clare  remembered  that  Apollinaire  had  left  his  wife  bymerely  getting  on  a  train  and  disappearing,  butthe  reasons  for  Clare's  own  escape  were  too  obvious  to  attribute  to  the  poet.  The  beauty  and  dread  of  time  was  that  nothing  was  forgiven.  Not  a  single  minute.  The  years  she  had  spent  in  consideration  of  this  act  were  not  only  lost,  irretriev-  able,  but  this  late  recognition  of  the  loss  was  so  naive  as  to  leave  her  breathless.  And  in  the  past  ten  years  she  had  lacked  the  convenient  excuse  of  children  to  care  for  or  the  most  central  excuse  of  all,  poverty.  The  bondage  of  most  women  was  caused  by  not  enough  mon-  ey  to  live  on,  especially  if  there  were  children.  And  for  men  there  was  the  perpetual  bondage  of  work  and  debt,  to  which  was  added  so  frequently  a  level  of  spending  far  beyond  their  means.  In  Clare  and  Donald's  class  such  bondage  meant  something  quite  different.  Don-  ald  had  explained  to  her  several  per-  sonal  bankruptcies  after  Black  Mon-  day.  A  number  of  members  of  their  club  sion  with  racing  sailboats  in  the  Great  Lakes  and  the  Ca-  ribbean  had  diminished  his  trusts  by  two-thirds,  sothat  he  was  forced  to  live  quite  modestly.  Clare  had  loaned  him  a  great  deal  of  money  over  the  years  and  this  made  Donald  quarrelsome.  Her  brother  liked  to  make  her  feel  guilty  by  repeating  that  she  had  inherited  all  the  good  genes  from  their  father,  while  he  was  stuck  with  the  unstable  propensi-  ties  of  their  mother.  Unfortunately,  Dr.  Roth  had  said,  that  was  a  possibili-  ty.  The  bottom  line,  Clare  thought,  was  that  her  brother  had  been  a  bully  since  he  was  an  infant,  and  had  tended  to  bully  himself  into  the  middle  of  any  misery  he  could  find.  To  an  incompre-  hensible  degree  he  had  ruined  his  life  and  caused  a  great  deal  of  pain  to  his  wives  and  children.  He  was  a  living  posterchild  for  the  evil  potential  of  inherited  wealth.  CLARE  was  absurdly  happy  when  she  reached  her  nest,  as  if  returning  home  from  a  tiring  day.  She  tended  to  the  remaining  embers  of  the  fire,  bring-  ing  them  to  life  with  dry  grass  and  sticks.  There  was  a  lightness  in  her  body,  brought  about  by  her  thinking  that  she  did  not  give  a  &quot;fat  fuck&quot;  if  she  ever  saw  her  brother  or  Donald  again.  It  was  as  simple  as  that.  She  then  said  &quot;Flat  fuck&quot;  out  loud,  furthering  her  intent  to  take  up  swearing  as  a  way  of  releasing  pressure.  The  phrase  had  been  used  by  April,  a  rotund  woman  Clare  and  Zilpha  had  meton  an  outing  the  October  before.  It  was  in  a  small  county  park  on  a  lake,  where  the  au-  " b"tumn  colors  were  so  stridently  lovely  as  to  approach  banality,  with  Sammy  swimming  through  the  red  and  yellow  leaves  on  the  water.  When  Sammy  finished  swimming  she  came  up  to  Clare  and  waited  patiently  for  Clare  to  pick  the  wet  maple  leaves  off  her  back,  then  rolled  vigorously  in  the  dust  and  ashes  of  a  campfire  site.  Zilpha  had  started  a  fire  in  the  small  Weber  grill  they  travelled  with,  using  the  dry  split  oak  that  was  kept  neatly  tied  in  a  bundle.  From  home  Clare  had  brought  the  salad,  the  dressing,  and  a  pheasant  Donald  had  shot  at  a  |  hunting  preserve  near  Holly.  &lt;  The  pheasant  had  looked  a  bit  ?  .;.  lean,  so  she  had  split  it  in  half  :  before  daylight  that  morning,  :  pur\xc3\xa9ed  butter,  fresh  thyme,  ~  and  sage,  and  forced  the  mix-  ture  gently  up  under  the  skin  while  Donaldwas  already  barking  on  the  phone  in  the  breakfast  nook.  April  had  been  driving  down  the  gravel  road  when  she  blew  a  tire  with  a  shotgun  sound  not  fifty  yards  from  them,  and  Sammy  rushed  into  the  woods,  remembering  the  few  times  she  had  been  used  as  a  bird  dog  in  her  youth.  April  got  out  of  the  car  with  her  five-year-old  daughter,  a  chubby  min-  iature  of  her  mother.  &quot;I  can't  believe  this  fucking  shit-ass  car,&quot;  April  had  hollered  at  a  volume  that  brought  Sammy  running  back  from  the  woods.  Zilpha  and  Clare  had  gone  to  her  aid.  There  was  a  bald  spare  tire  but  no  jack  among  the  hundreds  of  returnable  beer  cans  in  the  trunk  of  April's  car.  Zilpha  got  the  jack  from  the  Toyota  and  swiftly  changed  the  tire,  which  amazed  April.  &quot;Lady,  you  could  get  a  job  in  a  garage,&quot;  April  said.  She  continued  to  talk,  bearing  down  on  the  day's  prob-  lems,  with  every  sentence  peppered  with  phrases  polite  folks  think  of  as  filth,  Zilpha  and  Clare  couldn't  help  beginning  to  laugh,  and  April  said  she  was  sorry  but  she  always  talked  that  way.  Meanwhile,  the  child  was  off  throwing  a  stick  into  the  lake  for  the  dog,  her  voice  pealing  out,  &quot;Bring  it  back,  you  son  of  a  bitch.&quot;&quot;  Clare  asked  April  if  she'd  like  a  drink  or  something  to  eat.  April  said  she  had  just  had  lunch  but  &quot;I  could  use  a  fucking  drink  to  turn  the  day  around.&quot;  They  sat  at  the  picnic  table  drinking  white  wine-Clare  getting  up  now  and  then  to  tend  the  broiling  pheasant-     y  \xc2\xae  &quot;w.      watching  the  child  wrestle  with  the  wet  dog.  April  was  a  local  and  worked  as  a  barmaid  up  the  road.  Her  ex-husband  was  a  welder  in  [REDACTED]  but  was  in  jail  for  assault.  She  had  had  his  checks  garnisheed,  but  he  wasn't  getting  paid  in  jail,  so  times  were  hard.  Zilpha  took  down  the  information,  saying  that  her  husband  might  be  able  to  look  into  it.  Then  April  said,  &quot;Where  do  you  gals  work?&quot;  and  there  was  an  embarrassed  silence.  &quot;'We're  sort  of  housewives,&quot;  Clare  said,  and  April  said  she  had  -.  tried  that  once  but  &quot;I  didn't  *  give  a  flat  fuck  about  it.&quot;  She  ?  liked  working  in  the  bar  because  i  you  could  shoot  the  shit  with  ,the  customers,  and  if  you  got  a  &lt;  little  horny  you  could  always  A\\  find  someone.  Clare  had  set  out  a  small  wheel  of  Camembert  and  cut  a  wedge  for  the  daughter,  who  had  just  returned  to  the  table.  The  child  sniffed  the  cheese,  announced  loudly  that  it  smelled  like  poop,  and  ran  off  again  with  Sammy.  When  April  left  she  thanked  Clare  and  Zilpha  pro-  fusely,  took  one  more  swig  from  the  bottle  of  wine,  and  said,  &quot;You  fucking  ladies  got  it  all.&quot;  When  she  was  gone  their  laughter  was  mixed  with  a  little  melancholy.  The  pheasant  was  deli-  cious  and  Sammy  got  a  chunk  of  raw  shinbone  of  beef  that  had  been  packed  for  her  in  a  cellophane  sack.  That  had  been  their  next  to  last  outing  before  Zilpha's  diagnosis  came,  right  after  Thanksgiving.  In  early  De-  cember  they  went  off  to  a  spa  near  Tecate  in  northern  Baja,  just  a  few  hours  south  of  San  Diego.  The  trip  had  its  moments,  but  the  diagnosis  was  too  fresh  in  their  minds  to  try  to  ignore.  After  the  first  day  of  group  exercise  they  gave  up  the  program  in  favor  of  hiking  in  the  mountains,  most  of  the  time  well  off  the  marked  trails.  They  had  been  at  the  spa  together  a  decade  earlier,  and  since  then  it  had  vastly  upgraded  its  facilities,  and  the  clientele  had  become  a  bit  more  hard  and  glitzy.  One  evening  in  the  dining  hall  Zilpha  said,  &quot;We're  all  the  same  here,&quot;  and  it  was  true.  Other  than  a  dozen  men,  there  were  nearly  ninety  women  between  the  ages  of  forty  and  sixty,  but  most  of  them  were  around  fifty.  More  than  age,  the  women  seemed  to  be  fighting  amalaise  of  fatigue  and  dissociation,  of  free-float-  ing  anxiety  so  deeply  ingrained  that  it  was  invisible  to  the  bearer.  The  regimen  of  a  vegetarian  diet  and  relentless  exercise  in  a  lovely  setting  far  from  home-the  source  of  the  gray-area  angst-worked  quite  well,  and  within  two  days  spirits  were  lifted.  It  was  a  break,  not  a  cure,  a  shifting  into  a  pleasant  neutral  where  the  body's  ex-  haustion  supplanted  the  brain's  dreary  machinations.  Unfortunately,  given  Zilpha's  death  sentence,  the  function  of  the  place  was  too  clearly  scribed,  so  they  took  refuge  in  the  mountains,  packing  water  bottles,  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  oranges,  descending  in  the  late  afternoon  to  start  a  fire  in  the  fireplace  and  drink  a  glass  of  wine  before  dinner.  Clare  had  been  thrilled  to  discover  that  their  small  villa  had  once  been  used  on  a  regular  basis  by  Aldous  Huxley,  one  of  her  earliest  reading  enthusiasms.  Zilpha  was  a  steady  reader  herself  but  disliked  Hux-  ley's  brittle  intelligence,  which  re-  minded  her  of  her  husband.  At  dinner  another  evening  Zilpha  looked  out  over  the  assembled  ladies  and  whispered,  &quot;'Don't  you  wish  April  was  here  to  sweeten  them  up?&quot;  One  afternoon  they  were  sitting  on  a  boulder  halfway  up  43616e616461Cuchama  when  a  Pacific  front  swept  in  over  a  distant  ridge;  within  a  few  minutes  they  were  looking  down  at  the  roiling  tops  of  clouds,feeling  far  less  secure  than  one  would  in  an  airplane.  They  were  excited  and  girlish,  noting  the  occasional  hawk  or  raven  that  would  pop  up  through  the  clouds,  circle  around,  then  dive  back  down  into  the  moving  fleece.  &quot;These  clouds  aren't  comforting  enough  for  the  afterlife,&quot;  Zilpha  said,  just  before  they  heard  a  rattle  of  stone  and  saw  a  ragged,  des-  perate  Mexican  man  in  front  of  them.  He  gestured  at  his  mouth  in  hunger  and  they  handed  down  a  remaining  orange  and  hard-boiled  egg  from  their  perch  on  the  boulder.  The  man  pocketed  the  food,  smiled,  bowed,  and  scampered  up  the  steep  mountain  at  an  alarming  rate,  with  aphysical  verve  that  Clare  point-  ed  out  none  of  the  fitness  instructors  could  have  managed.  Zilpha  became  depressed  because  the  man  was  headed  for  [REDACTED]  and  might  be  disappointed;  then  she  began  coughing,  so  they  head-  ed  down  the  mountain.  CLARE  sat  before  her  fire  and  decided  that  at  last  she  was  ready  for  sleep.  She  felt  a  trace  of  something  new  and  feared  she  might  be  like  a  patient  emerging  from  an  asylum,  using  a  " b"cornstalk  as  a  sceptre,  and  saying,  &quot;As  of  today  I'm  giving  up  control  of  the  entire  world  and  all  of  its  inhabitants.&quot;  A  half-dozen  fireflies  had  gathered  in  the  darkness  around  her  green  cave,  and  the  tiny  beams  seemed  to  trace  the  convolutions  of  her  thought.  Life  out-  side  the  asylum  was  not  necessarily  more  pleasant.  It  could  be,  but  it  didn't  have  to  be.  She  tried  to  recall  what  her  beloved  Camus  had  said  about  &quot;ter-  rible  freedom,&quot;  that  once  you  decided  not  to  commit  suicide,  whether  physi-  cally  or  figuratively,  you  assumed  the  responsibility  of  freedom.  The  thought  blurred  with  a  firefly's  movement  past  her  nose.  She  curled  up  fetally,  rejected  the  position,  and  stretched  out  strenu-  ously  on  her  back  until  there  were  bone  crackles.  When  she  had  waked  up  a  few  days  before  this  trip  she  had  noted  that  her  feet  were  getting  old,  and  laughed.  She  met  Dr.  Roth  downtown  for  lunch  because  it  was  his  volunteer  day.  He  looked  grim  in  the  foyer  of  the  Caucus  Club  and  she  feared  he  had  had  a  bad  morning  at  the  hospital,  but  it  turned  out  that  an  auto  dealer  had  called  to  tell  him  his  wife  was  intent  on  buying  the  same  car  she  had  bought  the  day  before.  The  restaurant  seemed  sudden-  ly  inappropriate,  so  they  walked  down  the  street  and  bought  two  Coney  Is-  lands  apiece.  Clare  admitted  she  had  never  eaten  one  in  her  life  but  found  the  frankfurters  covered  with  onions,  mustard,  and  chili  quite  delicious.  &quot;You  just  saved  a  hundred  bucks,&quot;  he  had  said,  examining  a  splotch  of  mustard  on  his  necktie.  Clare  had  al-  ways  insisted  on  the  check.  \xc2\xab'Too  bad  they  don't  sell  these  out  our  way.&quot;  They  had  ducked  into  a  bar,  had  a  quick  beer,  and  removed  the  mustard  from  his  tie.  When  they  left  and  began  walking  again  they  decided  not  to  be  witty.  &quot;What  would  you  think  if  I  left  Donald?&quot;  &quot;I'd  think  you  were  sane&quot;  re-  ply  was  quick-&quot;but  that's  as  much  as  I'll  say.  When  did  this  come  up?&quot;  &quot;About  seven  years  ago.  Why  won't  you  say  any  more?&quot;  &quot;Because  I've  seen  dozens  of  di-  vorces  in  my  practice,  and  the  act  is  so  utterly  intimate  that  outside  advice  only  confuses  the  issue.  Also,  anything  I'd  say  would  be  an  abridgment  of  your  freedom.&quot;  &quot;I  understand  that.  I've  actually  re-" b"duced  it  to  an  abstract  principle.&quot;  She  had  hesitated,  feeling  foolish.  &quot;Let's  have  it.  Don't  leave  me  hang-  ing.  This  will  bea  first.&quot;  &quot;I  want  to  evoke  life  and  he  wants  to  dominate  it.  Is  that  too  simple?&quot;  &quot;No,  I  don't  think  so.  I'll  have  to  spend  an  evening  with  thatone.  When  are  you  going  to  do  it?&quot;  &quot;I  have  no  idea.&quot;  &quot;Where  are  you  going?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know.&quot;  &quot;Well,  I  don't  believe  you  don't  know.  In  theten  years  we've  known  each  other  you've  mentioned  a  number  of  places  you'd  liketo  live.  Let's  see,  there  was  Flagstaff,  [REDACTED],  Du-  rango  in  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED]  in  Ore-  gon,  and  Duluth.  And  the  obvious  [REDACTED].&quot;  &quot;You  have  a  remarkable  memory  for  my  nonsense.&quot;  &quot;I've  never  been  to  any  of  them,  but  when  you'd  mention  a  place  I'd  look  it  up  in  the  atlas  and  think  it  over.&quot;  He  had  been  nervous  with  this  admission  and  looked  at  his  watch.  It  was  then  that  she  understood  that  at  one  time,  at  least,  he  had  cared  for  her.  They  walked  on  in  silence  for  a  few  minutes,  her  heart  swelling  in  her  throat.  When  they  reached  her  car,  he  hugged  her  and  rushed  off.  SINKING  into  the  ground,  Clare  was  in  a  state  well  past  sleep,  or  so  she  thought,  with  her  body  sweet,  warm,  deadened,  giving  itself  up  to  the  bed  of  leaves  and  grass,  the  green  odor  transmitting  a  sense  that  she  belonged  to  the  earth  as  much  as  any  other  living  thing.  I  don't  need  to  change.  I'm  just  this.  Her  brain  had  grown  larger,  its  outer  reaches  vertiginous,  grand,  so  that  she  could  move  within  it  as  if  taking  an  evening  walk.  She  under-  stood  that  she  had  been  abandoned  there  by  her  mother  and  father,  Don-  ald,  her  children,  Sammy,  and  Zilpha,  and  that  being  abandoned  only  by  Sam-  my  and  by  her  children  was  natural.  Zilpha  was  torn  off  the  earth,  taken  away.  Donald  had  disfigured  himself  beyond  recognition  and  bore  no  resem-  blance  to  the  man  she  in  innocence  had  oncebeen  proud  tolove.  Her  mother  had  smelled  of  allspice  and  Martinis.  Her  ears  smelled  of  gin.  Be  careful  because  they'll  always  try  to  put  their  thing  in  you,  dear.  No  matter  what  they  say,  that's  what  they're  trying  to  do.  When  Clare  was  older,  her  father  had  said,  Clare,  look  at  your  mother  and  don't  drink  anything  stronger  than  wine,  and  she  hadn't,  except  an  occasional  brandy.  One  night,  while  she  slept  in  her  birthday  tent  out  by  the  grape  trellis  with  the  English  set-  ter,  Tess,  the  dog  had  growled  when  her  mother  came  out  to  cover  Clare  with  a  mink  coat;  then  she  heard  her  mother  vomit  in  the  yard.  Her  legs  were  so  thin,  and  she  died  a  year  after  him-unable  to  stand  on  those  legs,  still  smelling  of  gin  after  death,  beside  him  in  the  cemetery  Clare  could  not  bear  to  visit.  Now  she  would,  to  say  goodbye.  As  a  child,  puzzled  by  age,  she'd  say:  Why  is  Dad  older  than  me?  Why  does  he  say,  Take  the  best  bite  first?  We  went  for  a  drivethat  took  all  day:  from  the  cottage  to  a  man's  farm  near  Gay-  lord  to  get  Tess  bred.  We  dropped  her  off  and  he  didn't  want  me  to  see  it,  so  we  went  to  town  for  lunch.  Mother  was  in  the  hospital  so  I  got  to  eat  French-fried  potatoes,  then  we  went  to  see  the  Hartwick  pines,  the  biggest  trees  left,  then  we  went  to  the  wilder-  ness  where  there  were  only  huge  old  stumps.  He  said  that  all  but  a  few  white  pines  five  feet  thick  were  cut  down.  They're  like  the  buffalo,  but  I  didn't  understand.  At  Christmas  he  gave  me  a  silver  dog-whistle  with  three  small  dia-  monds  set  in  it,  because  I  could  make  the  setters  mind.  Sit,  stay,  come,  heel,  slow.  I  never  got  to  go  hunting.  &quot;Girls  don't  hunt,&quot;  my  brother  said.  He  hit  the  dogs  with  a  stick  and  got  spanked.  He  would  always  hit  me,  but  Mother  said  I  did  the  bruises  myself  to  make  my  brother  look  naughty.  The  clock  said  three,  and  I  didn't  hear  Sammy's  breath  and  I  knew  she  was  gone.  It  was  May  and  the  lilacs  had  just  come  out.  I  wore  my  nightgown  and  put  on  my  hiking  boots.  I  carried  her  down  the  hall  and  Donald  looked  out  of  his  bedroom  door  and  I  said,  Go  back  to  bed,  Donald,  this  is  my  dog.  Out  at  the  end  of  the  garden  I  be-  gan  digging  and  it  was  more  than  an  hour  before  the  hole  was  deep  enough.  I  got  down  in  the  hole  chest-  deep  and  could  see  that  dumb  bastard  Donald  staring  at  me  out  the  kitchen  window;  then  he  went  away.  I  lifted  Sammy  in  after  I  kissed  her  goodbye,  and  covered  her  with  the  dirt,  and  sat  down,  out  of  breath.  At  Zilpha's  grave  they  covered  the  dirt  with  a  rug  " b"of  fake  grass  the  color  of  grass  in  Easter  baskets.  SOMETHING  brushed  against  her  leg  and  she  bolted  upright  from  the  waist  in  alarm,  with  hundreds  of  yellow  dots  whirling  about  her  and  above  the  rabbit  that  paused  beside  the  dim  coals  of  the  fire.  The  moon  made  shadows  of  the  rabbit's  twitching  ears.  She  scrambled  out  of  the  green  cave  and  stood,  gulping  air  in  fright,  the  rabbit  shooting  back  into  the  thicket.  She  prayed  that  her  heart  would  stop  thumping,  and  looked  up  at  the  moon,  and  there  were  fireflies  above  her.  As  her  heartbeat  slowed  she  still  did  not  want  to  look  down  at  her  body  or  touch  herself  because  she  thought  she  might  be  seven  again.  The  fireflies  were  dens-  er  in  some  places  above  the  thicket,  blinking  off  and  on,  whirling  toward  each  other  so  that  if  you  blurred  your  eyes  there  were  tracers,  yellow  lines  of  light  everywhere.  She  thought,  Lewrel  should  see  this,  [REDACTED]  would  love  this,  and  then  she  was  no  longer  seven.  Clare  rebuilt  the  small  fire  to  break  the  unearthly  mood  but  the  fireflies  weren't  disturbed.  She  walkedup  the  path  fifty  feet,  turned  and  looked  back,  hoping  that  she  wouldn't  see  herself  standing  there.  The  countless  thou-  sands  of  fireflies  stayed  just  outside  and  within  and  above  the  thicket.  Quite  suddenly  she  felt  blessed,  without  thinking  of  whether  or  not  she  de-  served  it.  She  went  back  to  her  nest,  lay  down  and  wept  for  a  few  minutes,  then  watched  a  firefly  hovering  barely  a  foot  above  her  head.  She  tried  out  Now  I  lay  me  down  to  sleep  despite  its  failure  to  reassure.  All  souls  will  be  taken,  including  the  souls  of  fireflies.  She  closed  her  eyes  and  felt  herself  floating  in  memory  from  her  begin-  ning,  as  if  on  a  river  but  more  quickly  along  the  surface  than  what  had  hap-  pened  to  her.  Now  she  saw  herself  sleeping  on  the  ground,  without  covers,  up  at  the  cottage  when  she  was  seven,  with  Tess  curled  up  in  her  arms,  smell-  ing  like  the  skunk  Tess  had  bothered.  In  March  that  year,  1947,  there  had  been  aserious  bout  of  pneumonia,  and  the  doctors  had  given  her  too  much  of  the  new  wonder  drug,  penicillin.  At  first  she  was  better,  though  she  hated  the  hospital  and  asked  her  parents  daily  if  she  could  go  home,  and  they  kept  forgetting  to  bring  her  small  ceramic  dog.  Allher  joints  began  to  redden  and  swell,  and  her  fever  rose  precipitously.  The  doctors  diagnosed  rheumatoid  ar-  thritis,  a  terrible  disease,  and  then  she  lapsed  into  a  coma  for  five  days.  All  that  she  could  remember  from  the  coma  was  that  her  grandfather  had  brought  into  her  hospital  room  his  huge  Bel-  gian  draft-horse  mare  with  the  rooster  perched  on  its  back.  When  her  grand-  father  left  with  the  horse  and  rooster,  her  grandmother  came  in  leading  a  black  bear  with  ared  leash.  Her  grand-  mother  said  nothing,  but  the  bear  had  sat  down  beside  her  and  talked  in  a  soothing  language,  and  before  the  bear  said  goodbye  sheput  Clare's  ceramic  dog  on  the  nightstand,  so  it  was  there  when  she  woke  up  with  a  big  needle  putting  juice  in  her  arm.  No  one  was  there  when  she  woke  up,  though  she  thought  she  still  smelled  the  bear  in  the  room.  A  specialist  from  the  university  said  that  she  was  allergic  to  penicillin  and  the  drug  had  poisoned  her  system.  Her  parents  were  happy  she  didn't  have  rheumatoid  arthritis  (theykept  saying  it),  but  Clare  felt  things  were  never  quite  the  same  again.  In  her  child's  mind  she  felt  that  they  had  abandoned  her  because  she  had  frightened  them  with  her  illness,  an  almost  impercepti-  ble  withholding  of  affection  that  be-  came  directed  at  her  little  brother,  or  so  she  believed.  When  shegot  out  of  the  hospital  it  was  nearly  time  to  move  up  to  the  summer  place,  but  when  they  got  there  she  was  told  she  was  too  ill  to  go  fishing  with  her  father.  He  kept  saying,  Maybe  next  month.  One  evening  her  parents  went  to  a  party  down  the  lake;  the  babysitter  was  awful,  just  sitting  out  on  the  porch  with  a  boyfriend,  and  Clare's  little  brother  had  purposely  broken  the  tail  off  her  ceramic  dog  by  hitting  it  against  the  fireplace.  She  stayed  up  late  to  show  the  broken  dog  to  her  parents,  but  they  came  home  a  little  drunk  and  spanked  her  for  staying  up  late.  She  crawled  out  the  window  with  Tess  and  slept  under  the  bushes  near  the  garage  where  the  three-legged  cat  had  visited  them.  Tess  liked  cats  and  triedtolick  their  fur.  Early  in  the  morning  Clare  was  discovered,  when  Tess  started  barking  at  a  motorboat,  and  she  was  spanked  for  sleeping  out-  side.  She  never  did  get  to  go  fishing  that  summer,  though  shehappily  threw  her  brother's  favorite  Teddy  bear  off  the  dock  and  stood  there  a  long  time  until  it  drowned.  Then  her  mother  had  to  go  to  Mercywood,  the  hospital  down  near  Ann  Arbor,  because  she  drank  too  much,  though  Clare's  dad  said  she  was " b"just  sick.  The  good  trip  had  been  tak-  ing  Tess  to  Gaylord  tofind  her  a  &quot;husband.&quot;  That's  what  he  said,  though  there  was  no  church,  just  a  farm  with  English  setters.  Then  came  the  lunch,  the  big  trees,  and  the  buffalo  stumps.  WHEN  Clare  awoke  again  the  fireflies  were  gone.  She  rum-  maged  in  the  bag  until  she  found  her  watch,  lit  a  match,  and  saw  it  was  4  a.M.,  with  dawn  less  than  two  hours  away.  She  felt  drowsy  and  unafraid,  so  didn't  bother  to  rekindle  the  fire.  It  was  pleasant  to  know  that  she  had  no  idea  what  she  was  going  to  do,  other  than  wear  a  beret  in  [REDACTED]  on  at  least  a  single  walk-on  a  rainy  August  afternoon,  she  hoped.  Unless  they  had  small  chil-  dren,  most  women  in  her  neighborhood  in  broken  marriages  ran  afoul  of  sheer  idleness.  Clare  knew  she  was  bright  enough  to  make  herself  useful  some-  where,  especially  when  she  wouldn't  be  running  the  house,  which  she  looked  upon  at  the  moment  as  a  preposterous  imposition  by  her  mother.  Her  father  had  tended  to  be  naturally  morose,  taciturn,  but  the  times  her  mother  be-  gan  drinking  again  after  a  supposed  cure  were  especially  hard  on  him.  Once,  Clare  came  upon  him  crying  in  the  den  after  her  mother  had  fallen  down  the  stairs.  She  hadn't  really  in-  jured  herself,  but  the  family  doctor  thought  it  an  opportunity  for  a  quick  cure.  Clare's  father's  eyes  had  also  become  moist  when  Clare  was  dressed  up  for  her  first  formal  dance  at  four-  teen.  He  had  just  arrived  home  from  a  business  trip  to  New  York  and  stood  in  the  hall  with  his  ponderous  briefcase  as  she  was  leaving.  He  turned  and  nodded  to  the  boyfriend  standing  on  the  porch,  kissed  her,  and  said,  This  can't  be,  this  is  too  sudden,  and  off  she  went.  The  last  time  she  saw  him  cry  was  when,  despite  the  pressures  of  business,  he  drove  her  up  to  East  Lansing  to  enter  college.  Going  to  [REDACTED]  State  was  Clare's  first  act  of  total  defiance  against  her  mother,  to  whom  the  college  was  unmentionable.  Her  mother  had  insist-  ed  on  her  own  alma  mater,  Smith,  and  Clare  had  said,  You're  not  much  of  a  recommendation,  the  only  thing  I've  seen  you  read  is  &quot;Vogue,&quot;  and  her  mother  had  slapped  her  a  final  time.  Clare's  favorite  teacher  had  gone  to  M.S,U.,  and  had  set  up  a  program  with  old  professor  friends  sothat  after  basics  Clare  would  have  clear  sailing  in  com-  parative  literature.  She  envisioned  a  career  that  allowed  her  to  read  world  literature  and  think  about  it,  and  any-  thing  beyond  that  would  be  an  irrita-  tion.  Her  father  was  fairly  strict  about  her  spending,  but  gave  her  free  rein  with  books.  Sadly,  Clare  thought,  the  only  time  he  truly  defended  her  against  her  mother  was  in  the  choice  of  a  college.  But  he  had  become  quite  upset  when  he  dropped  her  off  at  her  dorm  and  they  had  talked  with  a  freedom  pre-  viously  unknown  to  them  about  her  moth-  er.  He  nearly  begged  her  to  come  home  as  often  as  possible,  if  only  for  his  sake.  It  was  an  unnerving  moment  for  her,  this  first  time  her  father  was  not  quite  her  father  but  an  intimate.  Oh  Fether  don't  worry  I'm  doing  fine,  and  then  she  slept  a  pure,deep,  dreamless  sleep.  AT  first  light  there  were  more  birds  than  she  had  ever  heard  at  one  time.  It  was  as  if  she  were  within  the  birds,  and  wrens  fluttered  skillfully  through  the  branches  of  the  thicket.  She  heard  whippoorwills,  mourning  doves,  the  resurgence  of  the  red-  winged  blackbirds  from  the  marsh  be-  yond  the  creek.  She  ran  a  finger  through  the  dew  on  her  face,  which  was  slick  as  fine  oil,  and  her  movement  disturbed  something  beside  her.  She  turned,  and  her  heart  stopped  as  a  very  long,  thick,  black  snake  eased  himself  off  into  the  deeper  reaches  of  the  thick-  et.  Holy  Jesus  I  have  slept  with  a  snake.  She  laughed  as  her  heart  restarted.  She  gathered  up  her  bag,  took  a  sip  of  the  boiled  creek  water,  which  had  settled  somewhat  during  the  night,  and  scrambled  out  into  the  dawn.  If  some-  one  would  just  bring  coffee  she  might  stay  a  few  hours  more.  She  began  to  walk  down  the  row,  then  turned  around,  having  forgotten  the  cran-  berry-juice  can.  When  she  picked  it  up,  there  was  a  clear  view  of  her  nest,  and  in  the  first  light  it  reminded  her  of  a  swamp  near  their  cabin  where  her  fa-  ther  said  abear  slept.  She  made  a  little  goodbye  bow  to  the  green  cave,  exam-  ined  her  filthy  clothes,  and  set  off  to-  ward  the  east,  where  a  burnished  or-  ange  sun  was  rising.  She  thought  that  in  the  future  any  place  she  lived  would  have  to  have  a  clear  view  of  the  east.  WO  weeks  later,  in  a  not  alto-  gether  pleasant  room  in  a  small  hotel  a  block  off  the  Rue  Saint-Jacques,  Clare's  view  was  a  scant  dozen  feet  in  any  direction,  but  the  ceiling  was  high.  The  room  was  as  close  as  she  could  get  to  the  pension  she  had  stayed  in  for  three  weeks  nearly  thirty  years  before,  and  twenty  times  as  expensive.  She  had  had  her  walk  in  an  August  shower  in  her  beret,  without  an  umbrella,  until  she  was  quite  wet,  and  then  a  coffee  and  calvados  at  Caf\xc3\xa9  de  Flore,  where  she  had  overheard  an  556e6974656420537461746573n  couple  her  age  asking  a  waiter  where  Camus  had  sat.  There  are  other  pilgrims,  she  thought,  without  a  trace  of  self-mock-  ery.  She  read  Guillevic  and  Sarraute  in  her  room,  reread  Alain-Fournier's  &quot;The  Wanderer,&quot;  and  planned  a  train  trip  into  the  countryside.  In  the  caf\xc3\xa9  where  she  took  her  lunch  every  day,  she  knew  she  was  referred  to  as  &quot;the  schoolteacher.&quot;  This  pleased  her,  though  it  wasn't  meant  to.  On  long  walks  in  the  overwarm  city  she  had  occasion  to  think  of  the  cool  breezes  that  came  off  Lake  [REDACTED]  in  the  evening.  If  she  had  the  whole  thing  to  do  over,  she  would  do  it  differently,  but  then  no  one  has  any-  thing  to  do  over.  Down  near  the  end  of  the  corn  row  a  pickup  truck  passed,  and  she  hid  as  an  old  man  turned  off  the  irrigation  for  the  soybean  field,  which  was  tinged  orange  and  glistened  in  the  morning  sun.  She  followed  the  path  of  the  pick-  up  to  the  back  of  a  barn  where  there  was  a  field  of  pigs  with  small,  low-  slung  sheds  in  rows,  and  a  smell  that  would  take  some  time  to  get  used  to.  She  went  through  a  gate  into  a  barn-  yard  where  the  old  man  had  the  hood  up  on  his  pickup  and  was  tinkering.  A  collie  mongrel  rushed  at  her,  barking,  but  Clare  said  a  quiet  hello  and  the  dog  wagged  its  tail.  The  old  man  looked  at  her  without  alarm  and  put  his  hands  in  his  denim  jacket.  &quot;'What  can  I  do  for  you?&quot;&quot;  &quot;I've  been  misplaced.  I'd  like  a  cup  ofcoffee.&quot;  &quot;If  it's  coffee  you  want,  we  got  coffee.  You  must  be  the  woman  we  heard  about  all  evening  on  the  radio.  You're  supposed  to  be  in  a  red  car.&quot;  &quot;That  was  just  a  note.  I  spent  the  night  in  your  field.&quot;  Her  voice  began  to  quaver.  " b"&quot;You  had  to  get  loose.  The  radio  said  he  was  beating  on  you.&quot;  The  old  man  led  her  toward  the  porch,  where  a  very  large  old  woman  was  standing  with  her  arms  crossed.  &quot;She  looks  just  like  Grandma,  doesn't  she,  Ed?&quot;  she  said.  At  thescreen  door,  with  its  tuft  of  cotton  to  keep  away  flies,  the  old  man  nodded  in  assent.  Ed  dis-  appeared  into  the  house  and  came  back  with  an  antique  gold-leaf  hand  mirror  that  had  a  photo  portrait  of  a  woman  framed  on  the  back  of  it.  The  woman  wore  a  stiff-necked  black  dress  and  bore  an  amazing  resemblance  to  Clare,  who  was  momentarily  disoriented.  &quot;That  picture  was  took  in  1890,&quot;  said  the  old  woman.  &quot;I  suppose  I  should  make  some  phone  calls,&quot;  Clare  said.  AUREL  arrived  in  two  hours  from  Des  Moines  in  a  police  car  with  a  state  trooper  who  talked  farm  prices  and  drank  coffee  with  Ed  while  [REDACTED]  and  Clare  sat  on  a  porch  swing.  [REDACTED]  had  come  down  from  Sioux  Falls  and  spent  the  night  in  vigil  with  Donald  in  Des  Moines.  &quot;I  never  thought  you  would  do  it,&quot;  [REDACTED]  kept  saying.  &quot;How's  Donald?&quot;  &quot;He's  unhappy  but  he'll  survive.  He  told  the  police  youhad  a  nervous  break-  down,  but  I  had  them  call  Dr.  Roth.  You  have  to  tell  the  trooper  that  he  didn't  abuse  you  within  [REDACTED]  state  lines.&quot;  &quot;The  poor  thing,&quot;  Clare  said,  and  began  to  cry.  CLARE  spent  a  scant  hour  talking  with  Donald  in  a  room  at  a  Best  Western  motel  in  Des  Moines.  There  was  more  than  a  trace  in  him  of  the  vulnerabilitythat  she  once  had  cher-  ished.  He  wanted  to  put  off  any  decision  &quot;in  depth&quot;  until  Clare  &quot;came  to  her  senses,&quot;  which  was  precisely  what  she  thought  he'd  say.  She  sat  next  to  her  suitcase  on  the  bed  near  the  open  win-  dow.  She  couldn't  help  noticing  the  day's  Wall  Street  Journal  and  a  notepad  covered  with  numbers  on  the  night-  stand.  He  was  the  same  Donald,  only  paler,  and  she  waited  fearfully  for  some  tremor  to  come,  but  it  didn't.  There  were  a  few  surprises.  &quot;I  can't  say  I  didn't  see  this  coming,  but  I  hoped  we'd  carry  on.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  have  anything  left  to  carry  on.&quot;  It  was  so  utterly  painful  to  say  it.  &quot;Is  it  Dr.  Roth?&quot;  He  looked  away  when  he  asked  this,  as  if  fearing  a  blow.  &quot;No.  Don't  be  absurd.  You  were  always  more  than  enough.&quot;  &quot;W  hat  about  the  house?  W  hat  about  everything,  for  God's  sake?&quot;  &quot;I  hope  you'll  still  look  after  every-  thing.  I  don't  care  about  the  house.  I  want  my  books,  but  the  house  was  Mother's  idea.&quot;  She  found  that  she  was  three  feet  from  her  body  again,  but  craving  the  immediacy  of  the  thicket.  What  did  fireflies  do  in  the  daytime?  Perhaps  [REDACTED]  would  know.  &quot;I  had  a  good  talk  with  [REDACTED]  last  night.  Per  usual  she  told  me  what  was  wrong  with  me.  When  she  was  little  she  even  told  me  how  to  shave.  She  said  you  were  tired  of  the  life  you  were  living  and  wanted  to  do  something  else.  Is  it  as  simple  as  that?&quot;  Clare  looked  up  and  saw  that  he  had  begun  to  cry,  but  it  was  Donald  crying,  not  her  father.  She  nodded  yes,  it  was  as  simple  as  that.  She  got  up  and  hugged  him,  and  saw  herself  hugging  him  in  the  wall  mirror,  and  a  wave  of  claustrophobia  swept  through  her  body.  &quot;We'll  talk  it  over  in  October,&quot;  she  said,  because  that  was  what  [REDACTED]  had  told  her  to  say.  [REDACTED]  was  dozing  in  thecar  and  awoke  with  a  start  when  her  father  put  Clare's  suitcase  in  the  back  seat.  [REDACTED]  got  out  and  began  tocry,  which  was  so  untypical  that  both  Clare  and  Donald  were  nonplussed,  though  Donald  might  have  felt  some  subdued  pleasure.  They  consoled  [REDACTED],  and  it  occurred  to  a  couple  driving  up  to  the  entrance  that  they  were  seeing  a  happy,  if  tear-  ful,  reunion.  N  [REDACTED],  at  a  newsstand,  Clare  bought  a  Rand  McNally  road  atlas  of  [REDACTED].  Owing  to  the  strength  of  the  franc,  many  prosperous  French  were  visiting  the  States.  In  her  room  she  spent  a  warm,  humid  afternoon  looking  at  the  locations  that  interested  her,  letting  the  maps  bring  back  Zilpha,  and  Sammy  sitting  expectantly  in  the  back  seat  waiting  for  a  lunch  break  ora  rest-stop  stroll.  Clare  felt  a  little  lost,  but  then  she  always  had,  and  supposed  easily  that  it  was  the  condition  of  life.  Lying  back  on  the  bed,  under  the  whirr  of  the  fan  on  the  nightstand,  she  decid-  ed  that  she  felt  less  lost  than  before  her  night  in  the  thicket,  and  that  when  the  afternoon  cooled  she  would  write  let-  ters  to  Dr.  Roth  and  [REDACTED].  If  it  rained,  she  would  wear  her  beret  to  dinner.  "