 b" SOME  nights  it  gets  lonely  here  on  the  U.S.S.  Fortitude.  I  wipe  ev-  erything  down  and  sweep  the  passageways,  I  polish  all  the  brass  and  check  the  turbines,  and  I  stand  up  here  on  the  bridge  charting  the  course  and  watching  the  stars  appear.  This  is  a  big  ship  for  a  single-parent  family,  and  it's  certainly  better  than  our  one  small  room  in  the  Hotel  Atlantis,  on  West  Twenty-second  Street.  There  the  door  wouldn't  close  and  the  window  wouldn't  open.  Here  the  kids  have  room  to  move  around,  fresh  sea  air,  and  their  own  F/A-18  Hornets.  I  can  see  Dennis  now  on  the  radar  screen.  He's  out  two  hundred  miles  and  closing,  and  it  looks  like  he's  with  a  couple  of  friends.  I'll  be  able  to  identify  them  in  a  moment.  I  worry  when  Cher-  ry  doesn't  come  right  home  when  it  starts  to  get  dark.  She's  only  twelve.  She's  still  out  tonight,  and  here  it  is  almost  twenty-one  hundred  hours.  If  she's  gotten  vertigo  or  had  to  eject  into  the  South  4368696e61  Sea,  I'll  just  be  sick.  Even  though  it's  summer,  that  water  is  cold.  There's  Dennis.  I  can  see  his  wing  lights  blinking  in  the  distance.  There  are  two  planes  with  |  him,  and  I'll  wait  for  his  flyby.  No  sign  of  Cherry.  I  check  the  ra-  dar:  nothing.  Dennis's  two  friends  are  modi-  fied  MIGs,  ugly  little  planes  that  roar  by  like  the  A  train,  but  the  boys  in  them  smile  and  I  wave  thumbs  up.  These  kids,  they  don't  have  any  respect  for  the  equipment.  They  land  so  hard  and  in  such  a  hurry-one,  two,  three.  Before  I  can  get  below,  they've  climbed  out  of  their  jets,  throwing  their  helmets  on  the  deck,  and  are  going  down  to  Dennis's  quarters.  &quot;Hold  it  right  there!&quot;  I  call.  It's  the  same  old  story.  &quot;Pick  up  your  gear,  boys.&quot;  Dennis  brings  his  friends  over  -two  nice  Chinese  boys,  who  smile  and     bow.  &quot;Now,  I'm  glad  you're  here,&quot;  I  tell  them.  &quot;But  we  do  things  a  certain  way  on  the  U.S.S.  Fortitude.  I  don't  know  what  they  do  where  you  come  from,  but  we  pick  up  our  helmets  and  we  don't  leave  our  aircraft  scattered  like  that  on  the  end  of  the  flight  deck.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  Mom,&quot;  Dennis  groans.  &quot;Don't  'Oh,  Mom'  me,&quot;  I  tell  him.  Cherry  isn't  home  yet,  and  she  needs  plenty  of  room  to  land.  Before  you  go  to  your  quarters,  park  these  jets  below.  When  Cherry  gets  here,  we'll  have  some  chow.  I've  got  a  roast  on.&quot;  I  watch  them  drag  their  feet  over  to  their  planes,  hop  in,  and  begin  to  move  them  over  to  the  elevator.  It's  not  as  if  I  asked  him  to  clean  the  engine  room.  He  can  takecare  of  his  own  aircraft.  As  a  mother,  I've  learned  that  doing  the  right  thing  sometimes  means  get-  ting  cursed  byyour  kids.  It's  O.K.  by  me.  They  can  love  me  later.  Dennis  is  not  a  bad  kid;  he'd  just  rather  fly  than  clean  up.  Cherry  still  isn't  on  the  screen.  I'll  give  her  fifteen  minutes  and  then  get  on  the  horn.  I  can't  remember  who  else  is  out  here.  Two  weeks  ago,  there  was  a  family  from  Newark  on  the  U.S.S. Tenth  Amendment,  but  they  were  headed  for  Perth.  We  talked  for  hours  on  the  radio,  and  the  skipper,  a  nice  woman,  told  me  how  to  get  stubborn  skid  marks  off  the  flight  deck.  If  you're  not  watching,  they  can  build  up  in  a  hurry  and  make  a  tarry  mess.  I  still  hope  to  run  across  Beth,  my  neighbor  from  the  Hotel  Atlantis.  She  was  one  of  the  first  to  get  a  carrier,  the  U.S.S.  Domestic  Tranquillity,  and  she's  somewhere  in  the  Indian  Ocean.  Her  four  girls  would  just  be  learning  to  fly  now.  That's  such  a  special  time.  We'd  have  so  much  to  talk  about.  I  could  tell  her  to  make  sure  the  girls  always  aim  for  the  third  arresting  wire,  so  they  won't  hit  low  or  overshoot  into  the  drink.  I'd  tell  her  about  how  mad  Dennis  was  the  first  time  I  hoisted  him  back  up,  dripping  like  a  puppy,  after  he'd  come  in  high  and  skidded  off  the  bow.  Beth  and  I  could  laugh  about  that  -about  Dennis  scowling  at  his  dear  mother  as  I  picked  him  up.  He  was  wet  and  humiliated,  but  he  knew  I'd  be  there.  A  mother's  job  is  to  be  in  the  rescue  chopper  and  still  get  the  frown.  I  FROWNED  at  my  mother  plenty.  There  wasn't  much  time  for  any-  thing  else.  She  and  Dad  had  a  little  store  and  I  ran  orders  M  and  errands,  and  I  mean  ran-time  was  important.  I  remember  cutting  through  the  Park,  some  little  bag  of  medicine  in  my  hand,  and  watching  people  at  play.  What  a  thing.  I'd  be  taking  two  bot-  tles  of  Pepto-Bismol  up  to  Ninety-first  Street,  cutting  through  the  Park,  and  there  would  be  people  playing  ten-  nis.  I  didn't  have  time  to  stop  and  figure  it  out.  My  mother  would  be  waiting  back  at  the  store  with  a  bag  of  crackers  and  cough  medicine  for  me  to  run  over  to  Murray  Hill.  But  I  looked.  Tennis.  Four  people  in  short  pants  standing  inside  that  fence,  playing  a  game.  Later,  I  read  about  tennis  in  the  pa-  per.  But  tennis  is  a  " b"hard  game  to  read  about  at  first,  and  it  seemed  a  code,  like  so  many  things  in  my  life  back  then,  and  what  did  it  matter,  anyway?  I  was  dreaming,  as  my  mother  was  happy  to  let  me  know.  But  I  made  myself  a  little  promise  then,  and  I  thought  about  it  as  the  years  passed.  There  was  something  about  tennis-playing  inside  that  fence,  between  those  lines.  I  think  at  first  I  liked  the  idea  of  limits.  Later,  when  Dennis  was  six  or  so  and  he  started  going  down  the  block  by  him-  self,  I'd  watch  from  in  front  of  the  Atlantis,  a  hotel  without  a  stoop  -without  an  entryway  or  a  lobby,  really-and  I  could  see  him  weave  in  and  out  of  the  sidewalk  traffic  for  a  while,  and  then  he'd  be  out  of  sight  amid  the  parked  cars  and  the  shopping  carts  and  the  cardboard  tables  of  jewel-  ry  for  sale.  Cherry  would  be  pulling  at  my  hand.  I  had  to  let  him  go,  explore  on  his  own.But  the  tension  in  my  neck  wouldn't  release  until  I'dseehis  red  suspenders  coming  back.  His  expres-  sion  then  would  be  that  of  a  pro,  a  tour  guide-someone  who  had  been  around  this  block  before.  If  a  person  could  see  and  understand  the  way  one  thing  leads  to  another  in  this  life,  a  person  could  make  some  plans.  As  it  was,  I'd  hardly  even  seen  the  stars  before,  and  now  here,in  the  ocean,  they  lie  above  us  in  sheets.  I  know  the  names  of  thirty  constella-  tions,  and  so  do  my  children.  Some-  times  I  think  of  my  life  in  the  city,  and  it  seems  like  someone  else's  history,  someone  I  kind  of  knew  but  didn't  understand.  But  theseare  the  days:  a  woman  gets  a  carrier  and  two  kids  in  their  Hornets  and  the  ocean  night  and  day,  and  she's  got  her  hands  full.  It's  a  life.  And  now,  since  we've  been  out  here,  I've  been  playing  a  little  tennis  with  the  kids.  Why  not?  We  striped  a  beautiful  court  onto  the  deck,  and  we've  set  up  stanchions  and  a  net.  I  picked  up  some  racquets  three  months  ago  in  Madagas-  car,  vintage  T-2000s,  which  is  what Jimmy  Connors  used.  When  the  wind  is  calm  we  go  out  there  and  practice,  and  Cherry  is  getting  quite  good.  I've  developed  a  fair  backhand,  and  I  can  keep  the  ball  in  play.  Dennis  hits  it  too  hard,  but  what  canyou  do-he's  a  growing  boy.  At  some  point,  we'll  come  across  Beth,  on  the  Tranquillity,  and  maybe  all  of  us  will  play  tennis.  With  her  four  girls,  we  could  have  a  tournament.  Or  maybe  we'll  hop  over  to  her  carrier  and  just  visit.  The  kids  don't  know  it  yet,  but  I'm  learning  to  fly  high-performance  aircraft.  Some-  times  when  they're  gone  in  the  after-  noons,  Iset  the  Fortitude  into  the  wind  at  thirty  knots  and  practice  touch  and  go's.  There  is  going  to  be  something  on  Dennis's  face  when  he  sees  his  mother  take  off  in  a  hornet.  CHERRY  suddenly  appears  at  the  edge  of  the  radar  screen.  A  mother  al-  ways  wants  her  children  somewhere  on  that  screen.  The  radio  crackles.  &quot;Mom.  Mom.  Come  in,  [REDACTED];  Your  daugh-  ter's  voice,  always  a  sweet  thing  to  hear.  ButI'm  not  going  to  pick  up  right  away.  She  can't  fly  around  all  night  and  get  her  old  mom  just  like  that.  &quot;Mom,  on  the  Fortitude.  Come  in,  Mora.  This  is  Cherry.  Over.&quot;  &quot;Cherry,  this  is  your  mother.  Over.&quot;  &quot;Ah,  don't  be  mad.&quot;  She's  out  there  seventy-five,  a  hundred  miles,  and  she  can  tell  I'm  mad.  \xc2\xabCherry,  this  is  your  mother  on  the Fortitude.  You're  grounded.  Over.&quot;  &quot;Ah,  Mom!  Come  on.  I  can  ex-  plain.&quot;  &quot;Cherry,  I  know  you  couldn't  see  it  getting  dark  from  ten  thousand  feet,  but  I  also  know  you're  wearing  your  Swatch.  You  just  get  your  tail  over  here  right  now.  Don't  bother  flying  by.  Just  come  on  in  and  stow  your  plane.  The  roast  has  been  done  an  hour.  I'm  going  below  now  to  steam  the  broccoli.&quot;  Tomorrow,  I'll  have  her  start  paint-  ing  the  superstructure.  There's  a  lot  of  painting  on  a  ship  this  size.  That'll  teach  her  to  watch  what  time  it  is.  As  I  climb  below,  I  catch  a  glimpse  of  her  lights  and  stop  to  watch  her  land.  It's  typical  Cherry.  She  makes  a  short,  shallow  turn,  rather  than  circling  and  doing  it  right,  and  she  comes  in  fast,  slapping  hard  and  screeching  in  the  cable,  leaving  two  yards  of  rubber  on  the  deck.  Kids.  I  take  a  deep  breath.  It's  dark  now  here  on  the  U.S.S.  Fortitude.  The  running  lights  glow  in  the  sea  air.  The  wake  brims  behind  us.  As  Cherry  turns  to  park  on  the  elevator,  Isee  that  her  starboard  Sidewinder  is  missing.  Some-  times  you  feel  that  you're  wasting  your  breath.  How  many  times  have  we  gone  over  this?  If  she's  old  enough  to  fly,  she's  old  enough  to  keep  track  of  her  missiles.  But  she's  been  warned,  so  it's  O.K.  by  me.  We've  got  plenty  of  paint.  And,  asI  said,  this  is  a  big  ship. "