 b"COUsIn,  you're  a  rough  diamond  -you're  diamond-hard,  hard  to  follow.  Even  for  me  it's  not  easy  to  keep  up.  Sometimes  you  go  slow,  so  you  don't  lose  me  completely;  some-  times  when  I  act  like  I  almost  want  to  get  lost,  you  drop  back  to  get  me;  and  even  though  you're  always  letting  me  know,  again  and  again,  that  I'm  closest  to  you,  and  most  like  you-[REDACTED],  even  with  all  that,  I  barely  understand  what  you  say  and  do.  How  did  it  go  last  night  when  I  came  over  to  your  house  and  wanted  to  watch  the  news  on  TV?  You  said,  &quot;Maybe  not  tonight.  Come  on,  I'll  show  you  a  good  place  to  watch  the  sun  set.&quot;  So  we  got  in  my  car  and  I  drove  where  you  told  me,  up  one  paved  road,  and  one  dirt  one,  and  then,  because  my  car  was  too  low  to  get  through,  we  got  out  and  walked  upan  old  logging  road  until  we  came  to  a  clearing  where  there  was  a  stand  of  trees,  mostly  birch.  &quot;Now,  [REDACTED],&quot;  you  said.  &quot;I  heard  somewhere  that  on  the  night  of  the  full  moon  in  July  the  birch  trees  give  up  their  bark.  It's  just  like  the  tides.&quot;  You  talked  about  how  it  all  comes  together  -the  time  of  the  year,  the  pull  of  the  moon,  the  warmth  in  the  air,  the  wet  in  the  trees-and  said  that  when  the  moon  was  high,  if  I  just  touched  the  bark  it  would  fall  into  my  hands.  And  then  you  said,  &quot;I'd  stay  here  myself,  [REDACTED],  but  my  son  wants  something  to  drive  tonight-and  you  know  those  trucks.  I'd  give  him  my  car,  but  the  wife  should  have  that.  So  you  stay  here,  and  thenhe  can  use  your  car.&quot;  &quot;You  want  me  to  stay  here  all  night?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Besides,  my  wife  wouldn't  sleep  well  if  I  were  out  in  the  woods,&quot;  you  said.  &quot;You,  [REDACTED],  you're  perfect  for  this.  You,  no  one  will  miss.&quot;  [REDACTED],  you're  like  life,  you  are  rough.  Then,  as  you  walked  away,  though  all  I  could  think  of  was  your  son  with  my  car,  what  I  yelled  after  you  was  &quot;I'm  supposed  to  spend  the  night  out  here  doing  that?  And  how  can  removing  the  bark  be  good  for  the  trees?&quot;  And  you,  still  walking,  said,  &quot;It  is  not  so  much  that  you  remove  as  .  .  .&quot;  And  then  I  couldn't  tell  what  you  said,  so  I  called  out,  &quot;What  did  you  say?&quot;  And  I  guess  you  said  it  again,  but  you  were  farther  away,  so  I  still  couldn't  make  out  that  last  word.  You  must  have  stopped  and  turned  around  long  enough  to  shout  back  one  more  thing,  because  I  did  hear  you  say,  &quot;And  not  now.  You  have  to  wait  for  the  moon.&quot;  IX  trucks,  [REDACTED],  and  not  one  of  them  working  right.  The  Chev  with  no  muffler.  The  red  Dodge  that  won't  start  and  the  blue  one  that  won't  stop.  The  Japanese  thing  you  can  see  through.  The  Ford-all  right,  I  found  you  that  Ford,  but  you  agreed,  so  we  both  can  be  wrong  on  old  Fords.  And  that  jeep-style  heap-good  engine,  but  not  much  of  a  transmission  left  to  get  power  to  the  wheels,  so,  because  the  tires  were  good,  we  put  the  wheels  on  the  Chev.  [REDACTED],  you  wantwhat  you  want  from  me  and  you  know  how  to  get  it.  Like  last  night,  you  must  have  known  that  hearing  about  tides  in  the  trees  would  be  something  I'd  like.  But  that  other  time,  when  I  really  wanted  some-  thing  from  you-I'm  notsaying  I  didn't  get  it,  but,  since  you  have  your  own  ways,  you  weren't  easy  to  follow.  &quot;Just  because  you  want  to  talk  about  her  doesn't  mean  we're  going  to,&quot;  you  said.  And  I  would  have  left  it  at  that,  for  a  while,  anyway,  but  then  you  said,  \xc2\xab&quot;We  could  go  see  her  stone.&quot;  Somehow  I'd  never  seen  it.  It  was  a  hundred  miles  inland  and  I'd  always  stayed  around  home  whenever  anyone  else  went.  So  we  got  in  one  of  the  trucks  that  were  working  then,  but  at  the  end  of  the  driveway  did  you  turn  left  to  go  inland?  You  didn't  say  anything,  and  did  I  say  one  word  as  you  turned  right  to  drive  the  other  way,  toward  the  shore?  First  down  a  paved  road,  then  a  dirt  one,  and  then,  where  I  was  sure  that  all  the  roads  ended,  we  took     JULY  2,  1990  an  old  hauling  road  the  fishermen  used.  When  we  stopped  and  got  out,  I  noticed  that,  although  there  wasn't  much  ofa  beach,  there  were  some  big,  sharp,  dark  rocks  at  the  high-water  mark  that  sheltered  some  larger,  light,  rounded,  smooth  ones  on  the  land.  Even  with  a  storm  out  at  sea  those  sharp  rocks  would  take  all  the  force  of  the  waves  that  came  in,  and  keep  the  smooth  ones  mostly  dry.  I  saw  right  away  that  if  you  wanted  to  you  could  lean  into  those  smooth  rocks,  or  up  against  them,  and  beheld  half  standing  as  you  slept  in  the  sun.  Those  smooth  rocks  there,  surrounded  by  sparse  grass  growing  upthrough  the  sand,  were  the  ones  you  walked  toward  and  around,  [REDACTED],looking  at  each  of  them  until  one  stopped  you.  You  ran  your  hand  over  it  and  said,  &quot;Here  it  is.  This  is  it.  This  is  the  one.&quot;  Then  you  showed  me  a  heart  shape  that  had  been  carved  into  it,  with  your  sister's  initials  and  some-  one  else's  and  the  year  inside.  &quot;O.K.,  [REDACTED],  I  get  it,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;A  rock  is  a  stone.  But  that  year  is  before  my  time  and  kind  of  early  in  yours  whose  initials  are  those  with  hers?&quot;  &quot;Just  some  local  guy  she  was  see-  ing.&quot;  &quot;So  they'd  come  here,  like  on  pic-  nics?&quot;  &quot;[REDACTED].  [REDACTED].  They'd  come  at  night.&quot;  And  then,  as  I  looked  at  that  large  smooth  rock  and  its  angle,  I  was  won-  dering  whether  she'd  been  heaven  or  earth,  her  back  against  the  sky  or  the  rock;  either  way,  it  must  have  been  nice.  Maybe  there'd  been  the  spray  from  the  waves  hitting  those  sheltering  rocks,  and  the  heat  of  the  day  must  have  been  deep  underfoot  in  the  sand.  Pretty,  on  a  clear  night  with  the  stars  and  the  moon;  even  if  the  fog  rolled  in,  it  would  still  be  nice.  Heaven  or  earth,  [REDACTED]?  And  the  guy?  Anyway,  he  was  there.  And  since  she  was  there,  it  must  have  been,  had  to  be,  nice.  [REDACTED],  thank  you  for  taking  me  there.  I  don't  think  I  said  anything  then.  I  just  walked  around  that  rock  and  listened  while  you  talked  about  her,  talked  and  talked  as  you  sat  on  that  sparse  grass  that  grew  in  the  sand.  N  you  said  then,  she  wouldn't  have  adopted  those  two  kids  if  she  had  expected  to  die.  First  the  girl,  then  a  " b"few  years  later  the  boy.  I  wonder  if  she  was  planning  to  take  another  one  or  two,  or  more  and  more.  Right  up  to  when  it  happened,  everyone  said  wasn't  it  something  how  happy  she  was,  and  how  good  she  was  at  raising  those  kids.  Because  whatever  it  is  in  people  that  wants  to  shelter  and  care  for,  in  her  it  was  something  those  surgeons  could  never  cut  out.  She  always  looked  so  good  on  the  outside,  and  while  we  all  knew,  even  me,  that  she  wasn't  all  right  inside,  we  always  thought  that  between  her  hus-  band  and  those  kids  and  the  doctors,  between  all  those  hands  outside  and  inside,  she'd  find  a  way  to  steal  another  year  every  year.  It  wasn't  so  common  then,  [REDACTED],  but  with  the  inside  taking  the  outside  like  that,  cremation  made  sense.  As  she'd  said  once,  if  her  body  was  going  to  give  her  so  much  trouble,  it  was  the  only  way  to  give  it  some  back,  to  someday  get  rid  of  it  for  good.  And  they  say  that  from  the  time  you  re-  turned  until  the  burial,  and  even  though  her  husband  was  also  around,  you  kept  that  urn  with  her  ashes  with  you;  you  wouldn't  let  it  out  of  your  sight.  So  you  and  her  husband  had  flown  backwith  the  two  kids  and  the  urn.  And,  first  thing,  you'd  decided  to  go  and  getthe  kids  haircuts  and  one  for  yourself.  In  the  barbershop,  you  lifted  the  boy  up  into  one  of  the  big  green  waiting  chairs.  You  put  him  all  the  way  back  into  it,  and  his  feet  hardly  came  over  the  seat.  The  girl  climbed  into  the  next  chair,  but  even  though  she  sat  on  the  edge  as  she  swung  her  legs,  the  leather  soles  of  her  blue-and-white  oxfords  barely  scraped  the  floor.  You  put  the  urn  upon  a  shelf,  next  to  the  bottles  of  hair  tonic.  Now,  not  everyone  knew  yet-you'd  just  got  home,  and  the  obituary  wouldn't  ap-  pear  until  the  next  day.  The  barber  looks  at  the  kids  and  says  to  you,  &quot;Sister  in  town?&quot;  And  you  nodded  at  the  urnand  said  low,  right  into  his  ear  so  the  kids  couldn't  hear,  &quot;She's  in  the  jar.&quot;  The  guy  nearly  fainted!  But  I  know  that  the  joke  was  not  really  on  him  but  was  one  just  for  her.  And  she  would  have  laughed,  [REDACTED]-she  loved  to  laugh.  And,  young  as  I  was,  I'd  made  her  laugh.     &quot;I  don't  believe  it.  That's  my  ex-wife.&quot;  Now,  the  boy,  no,  there's  no  way  he'd  remember  anything  of  her,  just  as  he'd  remember  nothing  ofhis  first  mother.  But  the  girl-do  you  think  there  are  things  she  might  recall?  Even  one  thing,  or  a  little  bit  of  one  thing?  And  then  there's  the  husband.  It's  true  that  it  was  hard  for  us  when  they  first  got  married,  because  it  meant  her  moving  away.  But  we'd  liked  him  be-  cause  he  was  special  to  her.  [REDACTED],  the  day  when  I  went  to  see  him,  long  after,  I  think  he  was  looking  for  something  of  her  in  me.  And  I  think  I  was  a  disappointment  to  him.  Not  because  there  wasn't  anything  of  her  but  be-  cause  there  was,  and,  of  course,  it  could  only  be  some  little  thing.  Yes,  he's  remarried  and  all,  and  has  more  family.  Still,  it  must  notbe  easy  for  him,  being  the  only  one  there  who  really  knew  her.  To  know  something  people  around  you  don't  know  can  put  you  outside  of  them.  And  then  you  can't  get  back  in.  IT  wasn't  so  bad  walking  down  that  logging  road  this  morning.  And  the  minute  I  got  to  the  dirt  road  a  guy  on  his  way  to  work  gave  me  a  ride  into  town.  He  went  out  of  his  way  and  drove  me  right  to  your  house.  And  I  saw  your  son  there,  washing  my  car.  He  said  to  go  on  inside,  that  his  mother  had  left  me  some  coffee.  Anyone  miss  me?  Any-  one  come  by  looking  for  me?  Any  mail  for  me?  Any  calls?  [REDACTED],  if  somebody  leaves  you  out  all  night  in  the  woods,  don't  lie  face  up.  Not  if  you're  alone.  There  are  only  so  many  stars  you  can  stand,  and  even  with  all  of  them  you  don't  get  enough  light.  Even  with  the  full  moon  inJuly,  there's  just  not  enough  light.  So  it's  really  a  time  to  let  gravity  take  you.  Turn  yourself  over,  and  gravity  makes  it  feel  as  if  the  earth  presses  back.  [REDACTED],  I  see  you,  and,  rough  or  not,  you  are  a  diamond.  I  see  youand  see  through  you.  And  justas  with  the  bark  that  fell  into  my  hands  last  night,  it's  not  that  I  want  to  remove.  I  want  to  receive.  But  do  I  ever  getthe  urge  to  put  my  hands  into  something-like  dough,  or  like  clay?  I  never  do,  do  I?  And  do  you  ever?  IT  was  last  night  when  I  thought  about  it,  [REDACTED],  and  now  there's  something  I  want  to  know.  A  hundred  miles  inland,  where  you  didn't  take  me,  where  the  stone  with  her  full  name  and  full  years  are,  and  where  you  finally  had  to  let  it  go,  what's  buried  there?  What's  in  the  jar?  A  fifty-fifty  mix?  Sand  and  ashes?  Or  is  she,  all  of  her,  outside  and  inside,  at  the  base  of  that  rock  near  the  beach?  Where  we  went  with  one  of  the  trucks.  Where  I  saw  you-I  saw  you!-dig  your  hands  deep  into  warm  sand."