 b"WILLIAM AKERS  was  born  Wil-  liam  Akers  Framner,  and  when  a  famous  designer  of  women's  clothes  died  of  AIDS,  when  this  man's  picture  was  on  the  cover  of  People  (&quot;HIS  RISE  AND  FALL&quot;),  Wil-  liam  felt  several  strands  of  himself  be-  ing  pulled.  First  of  all,  he,  like  the  designer,  had  been  a  part  of  the  crowd  at  Studio  54.  Unlike  the  designer,  he  had  not  hung  out  in  the  V.I.P.  room,  but  he  had  once  come  to  the  night  club  with  a  celebrated  actor,  which  was  enough  to  get  them  waved  through  the  crowd  by  the  big  Latin  man  at  the  door,  who,  miraculously,  decided  at  that  mo-  ment-once  and  forever-that  Wil-  liam  Akers  was  all  right.  Also,  like  the  designer,  he  had  suppressed  a  funny-  sounding  last  name,  and,  as  in  the  case  of  the  designer,  the  classic-sounding  name  he  went  by  was  really  his:  he  only  released  it  from  bondage;  he  only  gave  to  his  life  the  proper  stress,  a  better  sound.  More  and  more,  though,  he  felt  like  a  Framner.  Sometimes  he  even  felt  like  \xc2\xabBill&quot;  Framner.  He  was  working  as  a  librarian,  and  one  day,  looking  in  the  mirror  in  the  men's  room,  he  thought,  William  Akers  is  dead.  He  had  allowed  his  life  to  be  a  kind  of  experiment,  in  which  the  weather  or  the  &quot;whether&quot;-the  pressure  of  one  or  both  of  these  two  shifting  atmospheres  -gave  form  to  his  hatefully  malleable  nature.  But  now,  suddenly,  he  declared  the  experiment  to  be  at  an  end.  He  had  been  living  with  a  woman,  a  big  blonde.  They  shared  a  metropolitan  background,  and  against  all  expecta-  tion  they  had  a  riotous  sex  life.  But  they  were  in  a  holding  pattern.  They  had  both  left  lives  of  adventure  (without  acknowledging  that  this  was  what  they  were  doing),  and  so  they  adventured  with  each  other,  in  private.  He  ended  it.  He  quit  his  job;  he  moved  to  another  town,  but  nearby.  All  of  this  was  extremely  disconcerting  to  him.  What  was  life  without  experiment?  As  an  experiment,  he  had  put  certain  restrictions  on  himself.  He  had  worried  that  he  was  &quot;too  influenced  by  the  media,&quot;  and  had  stripped  away  his  attachment  to  television,  movies,  radio,  even  recorded  music,  so  that  he  could  have  direct  experience  of  life.  Now  he  undid  these  restrictions,  and  the  media  came  rushing  back  to  him.  He  was  forty  years  old.  His  parents  were  dead.  His  sister  was  dead.  It  was  a  family  reunion  to  have  this  stuff  back.  Billy  Framner  liked  the  car  radio  especially.  He  and  the  big  blonde  had  bought  a  house  and  renovated  it  together-Wil-  liam  Akers'  last  act.  They  sold  it,  and  he  was  rich,  in  a  way.  On  the  day  he  got  the  money-al-  most  two  hundred  thousand  dollars  he:  1.  rented  a  seedy  apartment  with  a  view  of  the  river;  2.  bought  an  old  truck;  3.  took  everyone  he  knew  out  to  dinner.  The  dinner  was  course  after  course  of  seafood,  drink  after  drink,  loud  talk  upon  loud  talk.  He  danced.  For  the  first  time  in  his  life,  he  felt  he  was  really  on  to  something,  but  the  next  day  dawned  and  he  realized  that  he  had  celebrated  the  closing  of  a  long-  run  show  and  now  had  nothing  to  do.  He  also  discovered  again  that  he  was  bisexual.  The  excitement  of  closing  his  old  show  gave  him  another  chance-to  orgiastically  love  men  and  women  without  regard  for  the  increasingly  grave  consequences  this  involved.  Je-  sus,  he  thought,  more  hard  times.  Now,  instead  of  being  William  Akers  at  Studio  54,  supported,  de-  ceived,  and  intoxicated  by  the  momen-  tum  of  other  people,  he  was  Bill  Framner  in  a  truck;  buthe  was  still  looking.  At  the  same  time,  a  very  old  potion  was  being  released  into  his  blood:  that  was  how  he  thought  of  it.  Like  a  time-release  capsule,  something  put  into  his  system  long  ago  was  being  released,  pop-pop-pop:  a  story.  It  was  a  story  in  his  family,  but  also  the  story  of  how  he  had  allowed  himself  to  be  influenced.  In  his  seedy  apartment  he  looked  at  the  river  for  a  day  or  two,  and  then  he  began  to  rent  videos.  He  made  an  ad-  venture  of  it.  Videos  could  be  rented  in hundreds  of  different  ways  in  hundreds  of  different  locations.  He  was  giving  in.  In  a  way,  he  didn't  make  a  move;  he  allowed  himself  to  be  moved,  and  all  he  was  doing,  on  the  surface,  was  renting  videos,  playing  them  on  his  VCR  and  returning  them,  usually  on  time,  the  next  day.  THE  boy  was  young,  athletic,  dark,  and  worried-looking.  William  knew  the  look,  spotted  it,  asin  an  unsorted  shop  an  experienced  dealer  in  objects  finds  the  one  with  a  future.  One  time  in  three  this  kid  handled  Wil-  liam's  rental  business  at  the  video  counter  of  the  strange,  not  quite  gener-  al  store  his  parents  ran.  This  old  town  was  taking  new  board-  ers.  They  ate  and  slept;  they  stood  on  small  pieces  of  ground  nobody  had  paid  mind  to-an  abandoned  gas  station,  suddenly  home  to  a  store  and  a  swarthy  family  both.  William  remembered  who  had  abandoned  this  one:  a  simple  fellow  with  a  local  name.  It  was  like  losing  a  famous  mansion:  Dipple's  Service  Cen-  ter  was  now  a  little  piece  of  [REDACTED].  The  family  was  Italian,  not  Portuguese,  but  Italians  move  to  [REDACTED],  after  all.  Wil-  liam  didn't  mind-not  at  all.  Mostly,  the  old  father  was  behind  the  counter  of  the  video-rental  aspect  of  this  creaky  place.  Behind  him  was  a  jury-rigged  scramble  of  shelves  with  all  the  plastic  cassettes  on  them.  In  front  there  were  similarly  insubstantial  racks,  holding  colorful  empty  card-  board  boxes.  William  was  an  expert  at  this  kind  of  thing.  He  knew  what  to  expect  from  the  trim  little  video  concession  at  the  convenience  store,  from  the  large,  busi-  nesslike  concession  at  the  supermarket,  from  the  huge  Mafia-run  maze  in  the  nearest  city,  from  the  local,  friendly  mom-and-pop  outlet.  This  was  differ-  ent.  It  was  desperate.  Kind  of  a  crack  house,  he  thought.  He  kept  going  back.  The  father  came  to  expect  him.  He  was  a  biggish  man,  undefined  inhis  physique  but  not  sloppy.  His  face  was  intelligent  and  animated-too  animat-  ed.  Clearly,  he  was  a  recent  immigrant.  This  was  no  well-connected-on-Mul-  berry  Street  man  with  cousins  who  owned  a  carting  business,  still  less  a  Nassau  County  Italian  with  kids  at  SUNY  or  N.Y.U.  And  maybe  even  SUNY  wasn't  good  enough  for  him.  William  spotted  Aim,  too,  but  declined  to  run  " b"him  all  the  way  through  his  mind.  One  day  William  came  in  around  noon.  The  father  was  holding  down  the  place  alone-  gas,  grocery,  and  all.  At  first,  William  was  the  only  customer,  and  the  man  was  full  of  talk.  Then  there  was  a  car  sound.  The  man's  face  froze.  William  looked  out  the  window  to  the  gas  pumps  and  saw  abig  old  evil-looking  American  car,  about  twelve  years  old;  then  he  looked  back  to  the  man.  His  face  was  still,  with  a  contemptuous  expression  on  it.  William  assumed  that  the  man  knew  and  disliked  the  people  in  the  car.  The  next  time  he  came  in,  the  boy  was  behind  the  counter,  and  William  introduced  himself.  He  did  it  quickly,  as  though  he  were  honoring  a  local  custom,  and  then  he  took  his  time  in  the  aisles.  He  went  up  and  down  between  the  rickety  shelves.  He  was  aware  of  the  boy,  whose  name  was  Antonio,  and  the  movie  cartons  both.  This  made  him  happy.  The  as-  sortment  of  films  was  interesting:  lots  of  cheap  ones-television  series,  old  war  movies,  soft-core  pornography,  all  mixed  together.  He  was  also  aware  of  the  boy's  mother  behind  the  cash  regis-  ter  in  the  next  room,  where  there  was  butter,  eggs,  cola,  Doritos-all  expen-  sive  in  supermarket  terms.  William  liked  the  guilt  associated  with  all  this.  He  imagined  everything  stepped  up,  heightened,  more  true.  He  imagined  the  boy  drawn  to  him,  the  mother  throwing  up  her  hands  in  dis-  belief,  the  father  beating  him  to  a  pulp,  perhaps.  E  drove  to  an  old  town.  He  used  New  York  State  as  his  billiard  table.  He  caromed  around.  He  turned  from  William  into  Willy.  Willy  drove  south,  into  the  nine-  teenth  century.  Somewhere  back  there  was  the  subtext  of  his  sexuality.  He  worked  into  it  bit  by  bit.  He  stopped  in  a  small  city.  He  was  a  connoisseur  of  cities  small  and  large.  A  gourmand.  He  ate  them  up.  This  one  was  a  morsel.  He  found  a  side  street  ten  stores  long.  The  third  and  fourth  ones  in-these  were  lovely,  pristine,  dusty.  A  nine-  teen-year-old  girl  showed  up  in  his  mind.  Looking  in  the  store  window,  Willy  thought,  At  first  she  is  the  pam-  ---     pered  darling.  He  walked  away.  Her  bloom  is  gone,  Willy  thought.  She  finds  that  the  kind  attentions  of  Ma-  dame  have  turned  to  indifference.  Then  the  Big  Guy  showed  up.  The  Big  Guy  was  the  nineteenth  century  himself.  Something  stronger  than  Dylan  or  Eisenhower.  To  approach  this  man  properly  required  a  bigger,  older,  dirtier  place.  Willy  got  in  his  truck.  Where  is  he  now,  the  bastard?  Willy  wondered.  In  what  low  place?  Does  he  sit  on  his  bed?  The  springs  bowing  down  under  him,  his  belly  hanging  out?  What  is  his  skin  like?  Who  sees  him  naked?  &quot;Shh,&quot;  said  Willy,  driving  on.  He's  at  the  Hole  House,  Willy  thought.  So  called.  &quot;Or  at  the  Haymarket,&quot;  Willy  said.  He  drove  a  long  way.  He  saw  the  highway  he  was  on,  but  inhis  mind  he  pursued  thebig  fat  man.  As  a  child,  he  had  had  imaginary  playmates.  He  thought,  He  was  king  of  the  big  play,  and  that  went  for  oysters  as  well  as  stock,  and  he  liked  his  liquids  flowing  freely,  too,  which  would  be  champagne  with  oysters,  water  with  stock.  William  driving  the  truck,  and  Wil-  ly  driving  William's  brain,  found  a  city,  abig  dirty  one.  The  Big  Man  gets  ready  for  his  evening,  Willy  thought.  Come  along!  At  the  Haymarket,  the  Big  Man's  preference  is  for  a  table  at  the  edge  of  the  dance  floor.  He  is  the  King  of  the  Haymarket,  and  whores  who  steal  from  their  customers  do  not  steal  from  him.  The  gypsters  who  prowl  the  floor,  and  the  pick-pockets,  tip  their  hats  his  way.  The  safest  place  to  sit,  indeed,  is  at  a  table  to  one  side  or  the  other  of  him,  as  there  isn't  ever  any  commotion  near  him,  except  when  he  causes  it.  And  there  is  only  one  commotion  he  ever  doescause  (Willy  thinks).  He  dances.  Isn't  that  something,  when  the  Big  Man  gets  up  to  dance!  The  floor  clears,  and  a  irl  approaches,  as  timid  as  a  bride.  The  ig  Man  gives  the  sign,  and  the  band  strikes  up  the  tune  he  favors  on  these  occa-  sions:  &quot;Song  of  Tennessee.&quot;  The  song  begins  now!  It  has  asweet,  old-time  lilt.  The  Big  Man  extends  his  arm.  The  girl  is  hidden  beneath  it.  The  Big  Man  sets  off,  drunk  and  clumsy  but  never  falling.  The  music  goes  on  and  on.  He  stumbles,  causing  the  girl  to  cry  out.  He  goes  on  faster.  The  crowd  roars.  &quot;He's  got  it!  He's  got  it!'  They  scream.  Men  stand  and  applaud.  When  was  the  last  time  they  stood  up  out  of  respect?  In  1865?  Mustered  out  of  the  Grand  Army.  Every  man  stands.  William  drove  into  town.  He  came  at  last  to  rotting  piers.  One  of  these  he  entered.  Some  secrecy  here,  he  thought.  Not  much,  though.  All  the  shadows  were  familiar.  The  sounds  of  water  were  steady  underneath.  Wind  came  up  through  rotted  wood  tohis  receptive  shoes  and  touched  his  feet.  Collapsed  pier,  he  thought.  And  theyused  to  do  such  a  good  business.  He  remembered  a  snatch  of  an  old  song:  The  rich  man's  request,  the  opulent  best  .  ..  William  sat  on  his  haunches  and  looked  through  a  hole  down  to  the  water.  Ah!  The  years  advanced,  and  all" b"at  once  he  was  in  a  movie.  (He  and  his  imaginary  friends  had  gone  to  the  mov-  ies  together,  often.)  Wiutam:  That's  a  cute  hat.  STENOGRAPHER:  Thank  you  for  notic-  ing,  I'm  sure.  ILLIAM:  New?  STENOGRAPHER:  This  old  hat?  Uh-uh.  Wirurtam:  I  don't  think  I  ever  saw  it  before.  STENOGRAPHER:  This  old  hat?  You  saw  me  wear  it  dozens  oftimes.  Let  me  see  (puts  finger  to  cheek,  cute),  I  wore  it  when  we  went  out  to  that  funny  restaurant.  Remem-  ber  that  day?  Wiutam:  You  wore  your  little  blue  hat  that  day.  You  wore  the  red  striped  cotton  dress  and  the  blue  hat.  STENOGRAPHER:  Well,  aren't  you  the  one  for  keeping  track  of  women's  clothes!  I  guessyou're  right,  Mr.  Observant.  I  wouldn't  argue  with  you.  Good  place  for  drowning  cats,  Willy  thought.  C  l  \\HE  big  blonde,  who  had  gone  to  live  in  New  York  City,  came  up  for  a  visit.  He  jumped  her  almost  right  away.  He  waited  behind  the  door.  When  she  knocked,  he  reached  over,  opened  the  door,  and  let  it  swing  open  sothat  for  a  moment  she  could  have  the  experience  of  being  alone  in  the  place.  Almost  against  his  will  (or  without  doing  anything  at  all),  he  had  been  making  it  perfect  for  her:  he  had  been  making  it  better  and  better.  There  was  a  seedy  subtext,  but  everything  had  beauty.  There  were  flowers  every-  where,  stuck  in  bottles  from  a  collec-  tion  he  had  been  making.  He  had  four- teen  one-pint  booze  bottles,  fifty  or  sixty  years  old,  that  he  had  found  on  a  walk  in  the  country.  He  had  been  walk-  ing  along  an  old  logging  road,  and  his  foot  found  something  in  the  leaves.  A  blue  bottle.  He  went  farther  and  saw  a  brick  chimney  collapsed  on  its  side  and,  all  around,  pint  booze  bottles  fifty  or  sixty  years  old.  Must  have  been  a  bunk-  house,  he  thought.  Bunkhouse  booze.  He  went  home-his  arms  filled,  his  heart  happy.  She  loved  the  place.  He  screwed  her  all  over  the  floor,  with  the  flowers  and  the  old  booze  bottles  around,  the  river  flowing,  the  sun  shining.  Heaven.  They  had  dinner.  They  went  to  bars.  &quot;Designated  Drinker,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Drunks  Against  Mad  Mothers,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  wish  we  had  some  drugs,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  can't  have  everything,&quot;  she  said.  Driving  down  the  road,  they  passed  " b"thelonely  four  corners  where  the  little  shop  was.  &quot;Let's  get  avideo,&quot;  she  said.  They  went  in  and  trashed  the  place.  They  were  flaunting  something  that  was  dead  for  most  people  who  had  known  it  and  did  not  exist  at  all  for  the  family  that  ran  the  place.  Everything  was  theirs.  Nothing  would  ever  be  denied  to  them.  All  movies,  forin-  stance,  all  movie  stars,  all  forms  of  display.  She  rented  pornography.  He  made  a  bouquet-no  other  word-of  film  noir,  just  the  right  stuff  to  go  with  the  highly  colored  stuff  she  picked.  She  had  neverbeen  more  appealing  to  him.  HE  slept  most  of  the  next  day.  He  let  the  sun  travel  until  it  shone  on  him  through  his  windows,  which  faced  due  west.  The  big  blonde  had  got  up,  pulled  herself  together,  and  gone  back  to  New  York.  All  around,  there  was  video  litter:  cassettes  and  card-  board  jackets.  It  took  him  an  hour  to  rewind  all  the  cassettes.  This  is  what  it  looks  like  after  a  party  now,  he  thought.  The  price  you  have  to  pay.  In  the  evening,  he  got  in  the  car  to  return  the  stuff  to  the  video  store.  The  handsome  son  was  standing  outside.  &quot;Hi,&quot;  Bill  said.  The  kid  looked  blank,  a  lot  less  friendly  than  before.  Bill  went  to  the  door,  ten  videocas-  settes  in  his  hand,  and  triedto  open  it.  Inside,  he  saw  the  father  waving  him  back.  &quot;It'safter  six.  Sundays  we  close  at  six,&quot;  thekid  said.  &quot;It's  about  two  minutes  after  six,&quot;  Bill  said.  This  was  something  William  Akers  would  have  said,  and  he  said  it  in  a  William  Akers  tone  of  voice.  Holding  the  cassettes  up,  he  made  a  total  body  gesture  to  the  man  inside:  a  combination  of  &quot;Be  real&quot;  and  &quot;Give  me  a  break&quot;  was  the  meaning.  Then  the  man  ran  to  the  door  and  threw  it  open.  He  grabbed  the  cassettes  with  great  violence  and  threw  them  back  into  his  shop.  &quot;'We're  close.  We're  close,&quot;  he  said,  and  slammed  the  door.  Everything  rattled.  Bill  raised  his  voice  so  he  could  be  heard  in  the  shop.  &quot;I'll  never  come  here  again,&quot;  he  said.  He  walkedtoward  his  truck,  feeling  he  had  ended  something.  He  felt  sad.  His  hand  was  on  the  handle  of  the  door of  the  truck  when  some  instinct  told  him  to  look  around.  The  man  was  about  toattack.  All  at  once  Bill  knew  this  man;  his  brain,  which  had  turned  away  from  doing  its  work  in  regard  to  this  person,  quickly  did  the  job.  &quot;Oh,  I  see,&quot;  Bill's  brain  said.  &quot;An  artist.  There  is  a  flute  in  the  back  of  the  store,  or  an  oboe,  or  a  manuscript.&quot;  The  boy  was  trying  to  pull  his  father  off  Bill,  and  succeeded.  Bill  got  up  and  looked  at  the  family  standing  in  the  evening  light  on  the  paved  area  around  the  gas  pumps.  It  was  one  of  those  off-  brands  they  sold.  It  could  be  anything,  really.  His  grandeur,  which  had  always  got  him  into  trouble,  was  now  the  only  part  of  him  able  to  talk.  The  rest  of  him  was  looking  at  the  beauty  of  it--the  light,  the  beautiful  Italian  family  mak-  ing  this  bit  of  land  new  for  him,  and  the  boy.  He  looked  up  at  the  plastic  sign  and  liked  that,  too.  But  the  grand  part  of  his  brain  was  turning  to  the  mother,  who,  he  knew,  had  seen  it  all  before:  her  husband  hardly  able  to  control  himself.  &quot;Are  you  in  business?&quot;  William  asked.  &quot;Are  we  kids  or  what?&quot;  The  man  was  on  him  for  real,  beat,  ing  the  crapout  of  him.  Ah,  the  ad-  venture  begins,  Bill  thought.  He  want-  ed  so  much  to  rise  up  with  the  infor-  mation  that  he  had  been  a  collegiate  boxing  champion.  But  he  had  some-  thing  else.  He  knew  how  to  take  it.  He  took  it.  On  and  on.  He  took  it.  Over  and  over  again.  He  took  it  over  and  over  again.  Now  the  boy  was  looking  at  him.  He  was  right  above  his  head.  Bill  thought  he  had  a  look  in  his  eye  that  bespoke  more  than  concern  over  a  possible  law-  suit.  Bill  was  suddenly  overwhelmed  by  a  high  hope.  His  jaw  wasn't  glass,  after  all.  Bruises  didn't  show  on  him;  the  swelling  would  go  down.  &quot;Families  are  ruled  by  the  weakest  member,&quot;  Bill  told  the  boy  as  he  felt  himself  drifting  toward  a  deep,  uncon-  scious  sleep."