 b"ALL  the  windows  in  Lewis  and  Mariah's  apartment  had  out-  side  them  iron  bars  twisted  dec-  oratively  into  curves  and  curls,  so  that  if  somehow  the  children  should  climb  upon  the  windowsill  and  slip  out,  they  would  be  unable  to  fall  down  from  the  tenth  floor  and  land  on  thesidewalk.  It  was  a  reasonable  thing  to  do,protect  your  children's  lives,  but  all  the  same  I  was  confounded:  Couldn't  human  be-  ings  in  their  position-wealthy,  com-  fortable,  beautiful,  with  the  best  the  world  had  tooffer  at  their  fingertips-  be  safe  and  secure  and  never  suffer  so  much  as  the  singeing  of  a  hair  on  a  child's  head?  I  was  standing  at  one  of  those  win-  dows  in  the  living  room,  looking  down  at  the  street.  It  was  a  cold  day  in  October,  and  the  wind  was  blowing  small  bits  of  rubbish  about.  As  a  child  in  school,  I  had  learned  how  the  earth  tilts  away  from  the  sun  and  how  that  causes  the  different  seasons;  even  though  I  was  quite  young  when  I  learned  about  this,  I  had  noticed  that  all  the  prosperous  (and  so,  certainly,  happy)  people  in  the  world  inhabited  the  paths  of  the  earth  where  the  year,  all  three  hundred  and  sixty-five  days  of  it,  was  divided  into  four  distinct  sea-  sons.  I  was  born  and  grew  up  in  a  place  that  did  not  seem  to  be  influenced  by  the  tilt  of  the  earth  at  all;  it  had  only  one  season-sunny,  drought-ridden.  And  what  was  the  effect  on  me  of  growing  up  in  such  a  place?  I  did  not  have  a  sunny  disposition,  and,  as  for  happiness,  I  had  been  experiencing  a  long  drought.  From  where  I  stood  at  the  window,  I  could  see  into  the  apartment  across  the  way.  A  man  and  a  woman  and  some  children  lived  there.  I  had  observed  them  before  at  various  times.  I  had  seen  them  in  bathrobes,  in  evening  clothes,  and  in  ordinary,  everyday  wear.  I  had  never  seen  these  people  do  anything  interesting-not  exchange  a  kiss,  not  have  what  looked  like  a  quarrel.  They  were  always  just  passing  through  this  room,  as  if  it  were  a  way  station.  Now  it  was  empty  of  people.  I  could  see  a  sofa,  two  chairs,  and  a  wall  of  books.  How  luxurious,  I  thought,  to  have  an  empty  room  in  your  house,  a  room  that  nobody  really  needed.  And  isn't  that  what  everyone  in  the  world  should  have-more  than  you  need,  one  more  room  than  you  really  need  in  your  house,  in  your  life?  Not  a  question  I  would  put  to  Mariah,  for  she  felt  just  the  opposite.  She  had  too  much  of  everything,  and  so  she  longed  to  have  less;  less,  she  was  sure,  would  bring  her  happiness.  To  me  it  was  a  laugh  and  a  relief  to  observe  the  unhappiness  that  too  much  can  bring;  I  had  been  so  used  to  observing  the  results  of  too  little.  This  reminded  me  that  lately  I  had  been  having  the  same  dream  over  and  over:  There  was  a  present  for  me  wrapped  up  in  one  of  my  mother's  beautiful  madras  headkerchiefs.  I  did  not  know  what  the  present  itself  was,  but  it  was  something  that  would  make  me  exceedingly  happy;  the  only  trouble  was  that  it  lay  at  the  bottom  of  a  deep,  murky  pool,  and  no  matter  how  much  water  I  bailed  out  I  always  woke  up  before  I  got  to  the  bottom.  It  was  a  Sunday,  and  I  was  alone  in  the  apartment.  Mariah  and  Lewis  had  taken  their  children  somewhere  in  the  country  to  pick  apples.  The  way  they  looked  as  they  were  leaving-if  I  had  not  known,  I  would  have  said,  &quot;What  a  happy  family!&quot;  The  children  were  well  dressed,  their  stomachs  filled  with  a  delicious  breakfast  of  muffins  that  Mariah  had  made  from  specially  pur-  chased  ingredients,  and  bacon  and  eggs  from  what  could  only  have  been  spe-  cially  cared-for  pigs  and  hens.  As  they  waited  for  the  elevator  to  come,  they  were  laughing.  Lewis  was  in  the  role  of  the  amusing  and  adorable  father  today,  and  so  he  had  put  on  a  lion's  mask  and  then  said  and  done  things  not  expected  of  a  lion.  The  children,  in  response,  shrieked  and  laughed  and  fell  down  on  top  of  each  other  with  plea-  sure.  When  the  elevator  came,  it  was  hard  for  them  to  just  calmly  go  into  it,  and  Mariah  gathered  up  their  coats  and  gloves  and  hats  and  &quot;shoo-shooed&quot;  them,  mocking  the  gesture  of  a  farm  wife  to  a  brood  of  chicks.  All  of  them,  mother  and  father  and  four  children,  looked  healthy,  robust-everything  about  them  solid,  authentic;  but  I  was  looking  at  ruins,  and  I  knew  it  right  then.  The  actual  fall  of  this  edifice  I  hoped  not  to  be  around  to  see,  but  just  in  case  I  could  not  make  my  own  exit  I  made  plans  to  avert  my  eyes.  I  was  waiting  for  a  call  from  my  friend  Peggy.  Since  it  was  a  Sunday,  she  had  gone  to  church  with  her  moth-  er  and  then  to  visit  an  old  relative  who  insisted  on  livingalone.  Peggy  was  going  to  call  to  let  me  know  what  time  we  should  meet  in  the  park.  It  was  our  custom  on  Sunday  afternoons  to  go  for  a  walk  in  the  park  and  look  around,  then  pick  out  the  men  we  imagined  we  would  like  to  sleep  with.  We  would  pay  careful  attention  to  their  bottoms,  their  legs,  their  shoulders,  and  their  faces,  especiallytheir  mouths.  If  all  passed  muster,  though,  Peggy  would  put  a  stop  to  our  making  an  approach.  She  would  look  closely  at  their  hands  and  say  that  though  everything  else  seemed  acceptable,  their  hands  were  too  small.  She  had  said  to  me-with  such  sin-  cerity  I  almost  thought  it  something  taught  to  her  in  class-that  if  a  man  had  small  hands,  it  meant  he  had  a  small  penis  to  match.  When  she  first  said  this  to  me,  it  came  as  a  complete  surprise:  I  had  never  dreamed  that  such  a  thing  as  a  penis  did  not  come  in  a  uniform  size.  When  I  then  asked  her  what  could  asmall  penis  mean  to  me,  she  raised  her  eyebrows  and  said  only,  &quot;Disappointment.&quot;  It  soon  became  clear  that  I  was  a  failure  at  judging  the  size  of  a  man's  hand,  and  so  it  was  left  up  to  Peggy.  Always  when  we  went  to  the  park  we  came  home  alone,  just  the  two  of  us.  I  did  not  like  Sundays,  and  this  one  was  not  an  exception.  I  could  not  be-  lieve  this  feeling  about  Sundays  had  followed  me  halfway  across  the  world.  I  could  not  explain  it,  this  feeling.  What  exactly  was  Sunday  meant  to  be?  Always  on  that  day  I  felt  such  despair  I  would  have  been  happy  to  turn  into  something  as  useful  as  a  dishrag.  W  hen  I  was  at  home,  in  my  parents'  house,  I  used  to  make  a  list  of  all  the  things  that  I  was  quite  sure  would  not  follow  me  if  only  I  could  cross  the  vast  ocean  that  lay  before  me;  I  used  to  think  that  just  a  change  in  venue  would  banish  forever  from  my  life  the  things  I  most  despised.  But  that  was  not  to  be  so.  As  each  day  '  unfolded  before  me,  I  could  see  the  sameness  in  everything;  I  could  see  the  " b"present  take  a  shape-the  shape  of  my  past.  My  past  was  my  mother;  always  I  could  hear  her  voice,  and  she  spoke  to  me  not  in  English  or  the  French  patois  that  she  sometimes  spoke,  or  in  any  language  that  needed  help  from  the  tongue;  she  spoke  to  me  in  language  anyone  female  could  understand.  And  I  was  undeniably  that-female.  Oh,  it  was  a  laugh,  for  I  had  spent  so  much  time  saying  I  did  not  want  to  be  like  my  mother  that  I  missed  the  whole  story:  I  was  not  like  my  mother-I  was  my  mother.  And  I  could  see  now  why,  to  the  few  feeble  attempts  I  made  to  draw  a  line  between  us,  her  reply  al-  ways  was  &quot;You  can  run  away,  but  you  cannot  escape  the  fact  that  I  am  your  mother,  my  blood  runs  in  you,  I  carried  you  for  nine  months  inside  me.&quot;  How  else  was  I  to  take  such  a  statement  but  as  a  sentence  for  life  in  a  prison  whose  bars  were  stronger  than  any  iron  imag-  inable?  I  had,  at  that  very  moment,  a  collection  of  letters  from  her  in  my  room,  nineteen  in  all,  one  for  every  year  of  my  life,  unopened.  I  thought  of  opening  the  letters,  not  to  read  them  but  to  burn  them  at  the  four  corners  and  send  them  back  to  her  unread.  It  was  an  act,  I  had  heard  somewhere,  of  one  lover  rejecting  another,  but  I  could  not  trust  myself  to  go  too  near  them.  I  knew  that  if  I  read  only  one,  I  would  die  from  longing  for  her.  Peggy  did  not  call  me  from  a  tele-  phone;  she  came  to  the  apartment  di-  rectly.  She  couldn't  wait  to  get  away  from  her  family,  she  said;  they  were  a  bunch  of  absolutely  nothing.  How  I  envied  the  contempt  in  her  voice,  for  I  could  see  that  her  family  held  no  magic  over  her.  We  went  to  the  park.  No  men  with  large  hands  could  be  found.  We  went  our  separate  ways,  but  made  plans  to  speak  to  each  other  on  the  telephone  the  next  day.  I  went  home  to  my  room  in  Lewis  and  Mariah's  apartment  and  sat  on  my  bed.  I  thought  of  the  summer  I  had  just  spent.  I  had  come  tosee  the  sameness  in  things  that  were  different.  I  had  experienced  moments  of  great  happiness  and  a  desire  to  imagine  my  own  future,  and  at  the  same  time  I  had  had  a  great  disillusionment.  But  was  this  not  what  life  should  be-some  ups  and  downs  instead  of  aconstant  dan-  gerous  undertow,  capable  of  pulling  you  under  for  good?  Right  after  we  had  returned  from  the  summer  at  the  lake,  I  decided  I  would attend  school  at  night  anymore  or  study  to  become  a  nurse.  Whatever  my  future  held,  a  nurse  would  not  bea  part  of  it.  I  had  to  wonder  what  made  anyone  think  a  nurse  could  be  made  of  me.  I  was  not  good  at  taking  orders  from  anyone,  not  good  at  waiting  on  other  people.  Why  did  someone  not  think  that  I  would  make  a  good  doctor  or  a  good  magistrate  or  a  good  someone  who  runs  things?  As  a  child,  I  had  always  been  told  what  a  good  mind  I  had,  and  though  I  never  believed  it  myself,  it  allowed  me  to  cut  quite  a  figure  of  authority  among  my  peers.  A  nurse,  as  far  asI  could  see,  was  a  badly  paid  person,  a  person  who  was  forced  to  be  in  awe  of  someone  above  her  (a  doctor),  a  person  with  cold  and  rough  hands,  a  person  who  lived  alone  and  ate  badly  boiled  food  because  she  could  not  afforda  cook,  a  person  who,  in  the  process  of  easing  suffering,  caused  more  suffering  (the  badly  administered  injection).  I  knew  such  a  person.  She  was  a  friend  of  my  mother's  andhad  delivered  me  when  I  was  born.  She  was  a  woman  my  mother  respected  to  her  face  but  had  many  bad  things  to  say  about  behind  her  back.  They  were:  she  would  never  find  a  man;  no  man  would  have  her;  she  carried  herself  like  a  strongbox,  and  from  the  look  on  her  face  a  man  couldn't  find  a  reason  to  break  in;  she  had  lived  alone  for  so  long  it  was  too  late  to  start  with  a  man  now. But  among  the  last  things  my  mother  had  said  to  me,  just  before  I  left,  was  &quot;Oh,  I  can  just  see  you  in  your  nurse's  uniform.  I  shall  be  very  proud  of  you.&quot;  And  I  could  only  guess  which  nurse's  uniform  she  meant-the  uniform  made  of  cloth  or  the  one  made  of  circum-  stances.  As  I  sat  on  that  bed,  the  despair  of  a  Sunday  in  full  bloom,  I  thought:  I  am  alone  in  the  world,  and  I  shall  always  be  this  way-all  alone  in  the  world,  nineteen  years  of  age  and  all  alone  in  the  world.  I  had  begun  to  suffer  from  violent  headaches,  exactly  like  the  ones  that  used  to  afflict  my  mother.  They  would  come  on  suddenly,  as  if  I  had  been  struck  by  a  bolt  of  lightning,  last  for  a  while,  and  then  disappear.  They  frightened  me  because  I  did  not  know  when  one  would  come  on,  and  they  frightened  me  because  they  reminded  me  of  my  mother.  One  day,  in  the  midst  of  an  argument  I  was  having  with  her  in  which  I  was  trying  to  assert  my  will  and  meeting  defeat  again,  I  had  turned  to  her  and  said,  &quot;I  wish  you  were  [REDACTED];  I  said  it  with  such  force  that  had  I  said  it  to  anyone  else  but  her,  I  am  sure  my  wish  would  have  come  true.  But  of  course  I  would  not  have  said  such  a  thing  to  anyone  else,  for  no  one  else  meant  so  much  to  me.  Her  desire  not  to  please  me  was  greater  than  my  desire  to  erase  her,  but  it  so  took  her  by  " b"surprise-my  wish  for  such  a  thing-  that  she  got  a  headache,  a  bad  one,  and  it  caused  her  to  take  to  her  bed.  This  lasted  for  days,  and  at  night  I  would  hear  sounds  in  our  house  that  made  me  sure  my  mother  had  died  and  the  un-  dertaker  had  come  to  take  her  body  away.  Each  morning  when  I  saw  her  face  again,  I  trembled  inside  with  joy.  And  so  now  when  I  suffered  from  these  same  headaches  that  no  medicine  would  send  away,  I  would  see  her  face  before  me,  a  face  that  was  godlike,  for  it  seemed  to  know  its  own  origins,  to  know  all  the  things  of  which  it  was  made.  MY  friendship  with  Peggy  was  reaching  a  predictable  stalemate;  the  small  differences  between  us  were  beginning  to  loom,  sometimes  becom-  ing  the  only  thing  that  mattered-a  grain  of  sand  in  the  eye.  She  did  not  like  to  read  books  of  any  kind.  She  did  not  like  to  go  to  the  museum.  Going  to  the  museum  had  become  a  passion  with  me.  I  did  not  grow  up  in  a  place  where  there  was  such  a  thing,  but  as  soon  asI  discovered  it,  that  was  the  only  place  I  liked  going  out  to  visit.  It  was  Mariah  who  had  taken  me  there;  she  had  wanted  me  to  see  some  paint-  ings  by  a  man,  a  Frenchman,  who  had  gone  halfway  across  the  world  to  live  and  had  painted  pictures  of  the  people  he  found  living  there.  He  had  been  a  banker  living  a  comfortable  life  with  his  wife  and  children,  but  that  did  not  make  him  happy;  eventually  he  left  them  and  went  to  the  opposite  part  of  the  world,  where  he  was  happier.  I  don't  know  if  Mariah  meant  me  to,  but  immediately  I  identified  with  the  yearnings  of  this  man;  I  understood  finding  the  place  you  are  born  in  an  unbearable  prison  and  wanting  some-  thing  completely  un-  like  what  you  are  fa-  miliar  with,  knowing  it  represents  a  haven.  I  wondered  about  the  de-  tails  of  his  despair,  for  I  felt  it  would  comfort  me  to  know.  Of  course  his  life  could  be  found  in  the  pages  of  a  book;  I  had  just  begun  to  noticethatthe  lives  of  men  always  are.  He  was  shown  to  be  a  man  rebelling  against  an  estab-  lished  order  he  had  found  corrupt;  and  even  though  he  was  doomed  to  de-  feat-he  died  an  early  death-he  had  the  perfume  of  the  hero  about  him.  I  was  not  a  man;  I  was  a  young  wom-  an  from  the  fringes  of  the  world,  and  when  I  left  my  home  I  had  wrapped  around  my  shoulders  the  mantle  of  a  servant.  I  was  having  a  thought  not  unlike  this  when,  unexpectedly,  Mariah  came  up  to  me.  The  look  on  my  face  must  have  shocked  her,  for  she  said,  &quot;You  are  a  very  angry  person,  aren't  you?&quot;  and  her  voice  was  filled  with  alarm  and  pity.  Perhaps  I  should  have  said  some-  thing  reassuring;  perhaps  I  should  have  denied  it.  But  I  did  not.  I  said,  &quot;Of  course.  What  do  you  expect?&quot;  PEGGY  took  me  to  a  party  in  a  neigh-  borhood  I  had  never  visited  before.  There  were  fewer  street  lights  there, the  buildings  were  uncared  for,  there  was  rubbish  all  about,  and  there  were  almost  no  people  walking  around.  None  of  this  frightened  me;  on  the  contrary,  I  found  it  quite  thrilling.  We  went  into  a  building  and  climbed  up  some  cement  stairs,  and  then  we  were  in  a  large,  nice  room  lighted  with  candles  and  filled  with  plants  that  I  knew  grew  in  a  rain  forest,  for  I  had  seen  them  growing  there.  The  room  smelled  of  myrrh  and  marijuana.  It  was  a  party  given  by  someone  she  knew  from  her  office,  a  man  from  whom  she  often  got  the  marijuana  we  smoked.  Whatever  he  did  in  her  office  was  not  what  he  planned  to  do  for  his  whole  life.  He  was  a  painter,  and  some  of  his  paintings  were  hanging  on  the  walls.  They  were  paintings  of  people,  some  of  them  women  without  their  clothes  on,  some  of  them  just  faces.  None  of  the  paintings  were  straightforward;  in-  stead,  the  people  all  looked  like  their  reflections  in  a  pool  whose  surface  had  just  been  disturbed.  The  colors  were  strange-not  the  colors  any  real  person  would  be,  but  as  if  all  the  deep  shades  from  a  paintbox  had  been  carefully  mixed  together  ina  way  that  still  left  them  distinct.  Peggy  had  told  me  about  him.  She  had  told  me  that  he  was  a  pervert.  I  did  not  know  exactly  what  she  meant  by  that,  and  she  never  told  me  what  he  had  said  or  done  to  make  her  think  so.  He  might  have  tried  to  kiss  her;  she  hated  men  to  kiss  her  unless  their  mouths  tasted  of  ciga-  rettes.  When  we  were  introduced,  he  took  my  hand  and  kissed  me  on  the  cheek.  It  was  the  way  he  greeted  women.  His  name  was  Paul.  I  said,  &quot;How  are  you?&quot;  in  a  small,  proper  voice,  the  voice  of  the  girl  my  mother  had  hoped  I  would  be:  clean,virginal,  beyond  reproach.  But  I  felt  the  opposite  of  that,  for  when  he  held  my  hand  and  kissed  me  on  the  cheek,  I  felt  instantly  " b"deliciously  strange;  I  wanted  to  be  naked  in  a  bed  with  him.  And  I  wanted  to  see  what  he  really  looked  like,  not  his  reflection  in  a  pool  whose  surface  had  just  been  disturbed.  It  was  a  party  of  ten  people,  includ-  ing  Peggy  and  myself.  Peggy  knew  the  others  in  one  way  or  another.  I  had  never  met  any  of  them  before.  This  was  a  part  of  her  life  I  did  not  know,  and  I  could  see  why.  They  were  very  chatty  people,  chatty  in  a  way  she  did  not  like:  they  were  talking  about  the  world,  they  were  talking  about  themselves,  and  ev-  erything  they  said  seemed  to  take  for  granted  that  it  mattered.  They  were  artists.  I  had  heard  of  people  in  this  position.  I  had  never  seen  an  example  in  the  place  where  I  came  from.  I  noticed  that  mostly  they  were  men.  It  seemed  to  bea  position  that  allowed  for  irresponsibility,  so  perhaps  it  was  much  better  suited  to  men-like  the  man  whose  paintings  hung  in  the  museum  that  I  liked  to  visit.  Yes,  I  had  heard  of  these  people:  they  died  insane,  they  died  paupers,  no  one  much  liked  them  except  otherpeople  like  themselves.  And  I  thought  of  all  the  people  in  the  world  I  had  known  who  went  insane  and  died,  and  who  drank  too  much  rum  and  died,  and  who  were  paupers  and  died,  and  I  wondered  if  there  were  any  artists  among  them.  Who  would  have  known!?  And  I  thought,  I  am  not  an  artist,  but  I  shall  always  like  to  be  with  the  people  who  stand  apart.  I  had  just  begun  to  notice  that  people  who  knew  the  correct  way  to  do  things  such  as  hold  a  teacup,  put  food  on  a  fork  and  bring  it  to  their  mouth  without  making  a  mess  on  the  frontof  their  dress-they  were  the  people  responsible  for  the  most  misery,  the  people  least  likelyto  end  up  insane  orpaupers.  I  had  smoked  quite  a  bit  of  marijuana  and  was  feeling  quite  happy  and  other-  worldly.  I  was  staring  at  some  plants  that  were  growing  in  pots  on  a  win-  dowsill,  plants  I  knew  by  the  names  of  cassy  and  dagger.  The  cassy  I  used  to  eat  with  fungy  and  salt  fish;  it  was  said  to  bea  vegetable  good  for  cleaning  out  a  person's  insides.  The  dagger  we  used  to  pound  with  a  stone  until  it  became  stringlike  and  then  plait  so  that  it  resembled  a  long  braid  of  hair;  at  Christmastime  it  became  part  of  a  clown's  costume  and  would  belashed  in  the  air  to  make  a  sound  frightening  to  children.  These  two  plants  grew  so plentifully  where  I  came  from  that  sometimes  they  were  regarded  as  a  nuisance,  weeds,  and  were  dug  up  and  thrown  in  the  rubbish.  And  now  here  they  were,  treasured,  sitting  in  a  prom-  inent  place  in  a  beautiful  room,  a  spe-  cial  blue  light  trained  on  them.  And  here  I  was  also,  a  sort  of  weed  in  a  way,  and  across  the  room  Paul's  eyes,  a  sparkling  blue  light,  were  trained  on  me;  his  eyes  reminded  me  of  a  marble  I  used  to  have,  my  lucky  marble,  the  one  that,  when  I  played  a  game  with  it,  always  won.  This  is  usually  the  moment  when  peoplesay  they  fall  in  love,  but  I  did  not  fall  in  love.  Being  in  such  a  state  was  not  something  I  longed  for.  It  was  truethat  I  had  seen  so  little  of  the  world  that  I  hardly  knew  what  I  really  thought  of  anything.  In  any  case,  as  I  looked  back  atthis  man  whose  eyes  reminded  me  of  my  winning  marble,  the  question  of  being  in  love  was  not  one  I  wanted  to  settle  then;  what  I  wanted  was  to  be  alone  in  a  room  with  him  and  naked.  He  came  over  and  sat  next  to  me;  he  asked  me  where  I  was  from;  he  touched  my  hair,  and  I  could  tell  that  the  texture  of  it  was  new  to  him.  I  laughed  a  laugh  that  I  could  not  believe  came  out  of  me;  it  was  a  gurgly  laugh,  a  laugh  shot  full  of  pleasure  and  insincerity;  it  was  the  laugh  of  a  wom-  an  on  whom  not  long  ago  I  would  have  heaped  scorn.  It  was  understood  that  when  everyone  left,  I  would  not  leave  with  them.  At  that  moment  I  looked  up  and  saw  Peggy  staring  at  me  with  her  own  blue  eyes;  they  were  sparkling  also,  but  with  anger.  She  gestured  to  me  to  follow  her  into  the  bathroom,  and  whenwe  got  there  she  said  to  me,  &quot;I  told  you  he's  a  creep,  I  told  you  he's  a  pervert.&quot;  When  1  said,  &quot;But  I  like  him,&quot;an  enormous  silence  fell  between  us,  the  kind  of  silence  that  is  dangerous  between  friends,  for  in  it  they  weigh  their  past  together,  and  they  try  tosee  a  future  together;  they  hate  their  present.  It  is  never  happy.  Peggy  lit  a  cigarette.  Some  of  her  hair  had  fallen  forward  into  her  face;  she  pushed  it  back,  but  it  fell  forward  again.  She  placed  her  teeth  together  and  sent  a  mouthful  of  smoke  toward  me.  This  had  never  happened  before.  We  had  never  quarrelled.  I  had  never  chosen  the  company  of  a  man  over  hers.  I  had  never  chosen  anyone  over  her.  She  said,  &quot;Can't  you  see  from  his  hands  he's  bound  to  have  a  small  prick?&quot;  Something  to  say  to  her  quickly  came  to  mind,  but  I  could  not  give  voice  to  it;  it  was  too  cruel.  I  immediately  imagined  our  separately  going  over  the  life  of  our  friendship,  and  all  the  affection  and  all  the  wonderful  mo-  " b"ments  in  it  coming  to  a  sharp  end.  We  came  out  of  the  bathroom  feel-  ing,  I  suppose,  relief  that  we  had  avoid-  ed  a  permanent  collapse  between  us,  but  also  knowing  that  sometime,  sooner  or  later,  we  would  only  exist  for  each  other  with  a  faint  &quot;Oh,  yes  ...&quot;  The  room  was  full  of  laughter;  all  attention  was  directed  at  Paul,  whose  hands  were  plunged  into  a  fish  tank  in  an  effort  to  retrieve  an  earring  of  rhinestones  in  the  shape  of  a  starfish.  It  looked  strangely  at  home  there,  for  all  the  things  in  the  tank-the  coral,  the  vegetation,  the  sand,  even  the  fish-had  looked  unreal  in  the  first  place.  Paul's  hands,  as  they  moved  about  the  tank,  looked  strange  also;  the  flesh  looked  like  bone,  and  as  if  it  had  been  placed  in  a  solution  that  had  leached  all  the  life  away.  I  USED  to  know  a  girl  named  Myrna,  whose  mother  was  so  cruel  that  it  was  as  if  she  were  not  a  mother  at  all  but  a  wicked  stepmother.  Perhaps  in  response  to  this  situation,  everything  about  Myrna  refused  to  attain  a  normal  size:  her  body,  her  eyes,  her  nose,  her  mouth-even  her  hair  would  grow  no  longer  than  the  length  ofa  fingernail,  and  she  was  often  described  as  &quot;that  picky-haired  girl.&quot;  Though  she  lived  in  the  house  across  from  me,  we  were  not  friends,  but  our  families  shared  the  same  fishermen,  Mr.  Thomas  and  Mr.  Mathew,  and  she  and  I  would  often  stand  together  under  a  tree,  shading  ourselves  from  the  hot  sun,  waiting  for  them  to  return  from  sea  with  that  day's  catch.  One  day,  Mr.  Mathew  came  back  in  their  boat  alone;  there  was  no  Mr.  Thomas,  and  there  were  no  fish.  A  squall  had  sprung  up  out  atsea,  and  in  the  midst  of  it  Mr.  Thomas  had  been  swept  overboard  as  he  was  trying  to  retrieve  some  fish  pots.  As  Mr.  Math-  ew  told  the  story,  he  seemed  unable  to  believe  what  he  was  saying  himself,  as  if  he  expected  someone  to  tell  him  that  it  had  all  been  a  mistake,  he  had  imag-  ined  the  whole  thing.  He  was  so  pitiful  my  heart  broke  just  looking  at  him.  He  had  been  orphaned  as  a  child;  his  moth-  er  and  father  had  died  when  they  were  trapped  in  a  sugarcane  field  that  was  on  fire,  and  now  he  was  orphaned  again,  for  he  and  Mr.  Thomas  had  been  like  parents  to  each  other,  as  would  be  expected  of  two  people  who  depended  on  each  other  as  much  as  they  did.  He  then  started  tocry,  and  it  was  such  a sorrowful  sound  I  did  not  know  a  man  could  sound  like  that.  I  wanted  to  say  something  to  him,  something  that  would  be  comforting  and  at  the  same  time  take  his  mindaway  from  his  sor-  row,  if  only  for  a  moment,  but  all  I  could  say  was  &quot;Poor  Mr.  Thomas,  poor  Mr.  Thomas,  and,  you  know,  he  would  have  enjoyed  growing  old  with  you  so  much-just  the  two  of  you  sitting  here  mending  your  nets.&quot;  As  I  was  saying  this,  I  knew  it  would  have  the  opposite  effect  of  what  I  wanted  it  to  have,  but  I  couldn't  help  myself.  I  turned  away,  taking  Myrna's  arm,  and  we  started  to  walk  home.  We  walked  along  for  a  while,  and  then  I  realized  that  she  was  crying  quite  hard,  and  that  made  me  feel  how  wrong  I  always  am  about  my  judg-  ments  of  other  people,  because  if  I  had  been  asked  I  would  have  said  that  Myrna  was  not  capable  of  feeling  great  sorrow  about  Mr.  Thomas's  death  or  about  too  much  else,  for  that  matter.  And  so  I  put  my  arm  around  her  shoulders  and  gave  her  a  squeeze,  at  the  same  time  saying  a  lot  of  nonsense  I  didn't  believe,  nonsense  about  Mr.  Thomas's  going  to  a  better  place,  non-  sense  about  there  being  a  great  and  wise purpose  behind  such  a  thing  as  Mr.  Thomas's  being  swept  overboard.  Her  response  to  this  was  to  push  me  away  with  a  great  big  shove,  her  eyes  boiling  with  anger  and  contempt.  And  she  told  me  some  things.  She  told  me  that  she  had  not  been  crying  for  Mr.  Thomas  at  all-she  had  been  crying  for  herself.  She  said  that  she  used  to  meet  Thomas  (she  did  not  call  him  &quot;Mr.&quot;  now)  under  a  breadfruit  tree  that  was  near  her  latrine  and  near  the  entrance  to  the  alley  that  was  at  the  back  of  her  house,  and  she  would  stand  in  the  dark,  fully  clothed  but  without  her  panties,  and  he  would  put  his  middle  finger  up  inside  her.  It  never  lasted  very  long,  for  her  mother  would  become  suspicious  if  she  was  missing  from  her  house  for  too  long  a  time.  She  and  Mr.  Thomas  never  spoke  about  it;  often  she  would  go  to  this  place  and  he  would  not  show  up;  he  never  explained.  After  he  had  removed  his  finger  from  inside  her,  he  would  give  to  her  sometimes  a  shilling,  sometimes  just  sixpence;  he  never  told  her  why  it  was  sometimes  more,  some-  times  less.  She  kept  the  money  in  an  old  Ovaltine  tin,  hidden  under  the  stones  in  the  middle  of  her  mother's  stone  heap.  She  said  that  she  had  not  decided  exactly  what  she  was  going  to  do  with  the  money  yet,  but  whatever  it  would  be  she  did  not  yet  have  enough.  She  said  it  was  for  this  she  cried:  whatever  she  would  eventually  do  with  the  money,  she  did  not  have  enough  of  it  yet.  I,  of  course,  had  many  feelings  about  this  amazing  story-all  the  predictable  ones-but  then  one  feeling  came  to  .  dominate  the  others:  I  was  almost  over-  come  with  jealousy.  Why  had  such  an  " b"extraordinary  thing  happened  to  her  and  not  to  me?  Why  had  Mr.  Thomas  chosen  Myrna  as  the  girl  he  would  meet  in  secret  and  place  his  middle  finger  up  inside,  not  me?  Myrna  spoke  of  this  in  a  flat,  uninterested  way,  as  if  all  they  had  done  was  sharea  cup  of  fresh  rainwater  together.  This  would  have  become  the  experience  of  my  life,  the  one  all  others  would  have  to  live  up  to.  What  a  waste!  It  meant  nothing  to  Myrna;  she  only  spoke  of  the  money,  and  even  so  she  did  not  have  a  plan  for  what  she  would  do  with  that.  For  me,  the  money  would  have  been  beside  the  point.  I  am  sure  I  would  have  given  it  away;  I  am  sure,  in  fact,  that  I  would  have  found  a  way  to  steal  a  shilling  or  two  and  give  it  to  Mr.  Thomas  to  have  been  in  Myrna's  shoes.  Oh,  the  injus-  tice  of  everything.  What  words  did  Mr.  Thomas  use  to  make  this  arrange-  ment  with  her,  and  why,  again,  had  I  not  been  worthy  of  hearing  them?  I  remembered  that  he  had  a  wide  mouth,  large  lips,  and  a  big  wide  pink  tongue,  which  could  beseen  clearly  when  he  laughed-a  loud  laugh.  He  had  the  sort  of  bloodshot  eyes  that  betray  a  lot  of  rum-drinking.  He  smoked  so  many  cigarettes  that  some-  times  when  he  came  to  deliver  the  fish  to  us,  he  smelled  more  of  tobacco  than  he  did  of  the  sea.  He  called  me  Little  [REDACTED]  Once,  my  mother  had  sent  me  to  his  house-the  house  he  and  Mr.  Mathew  shared-with  the  payment  for  a  week's  worth  of  fish,  and  when  he  came  to  the  door  and  saw  that  it  was  me  he  said,  &quot;Oh,  my!&quot;  and  he  went  back  inside,  because  hewasn't  wearing  a  shirt,  just  his  underpants,  which  were  oversized  and  made  of  the  same  blue  chambray  as  my  father's.  When  he  came  back,  he  was  wearing  an  old  madras  shirt,  patched  here  and  there,  and  he  held  the  cigarette  he  was  smok-  ing  behind  his  back,  because  since  he  wasn't  my  father  or  a  close  relative,  smoking  a  cigarette  in  front  of  me  would  show  disrespect.  He  thanked  me  for  the  payment,  and  as  I  was  turning  to  leave  he  said,  &quot;And  how  is  life  treating  you,  Little  Miss?  How  is  school?&quot;  And  I  had  replied,  &quot;As  well  as  can  be  expected,  sir,  as  well  as  can  be  expected.&quot;  With  that  answer,  I  knew  I  was  being  a  direct  imitation  of  my  mother,  and  he  knew  it,  too,  for  he  just  burst  out  laughing,  and  I  got  a  good  look  at  his  big  tongue  and  gums  and  teeth.  I  felt  so  embarrassed  that  I  had  caused  him  to  laugh  so  heartily  and  with  such  abandon  when  we  were  alone  that  I  stumbled  away  without  saying  goodbye,  and  he  called  after  me,  &quot;God  bless  you,  Little  [REDACTED]&quot;  It  was  a  way  of  letting  me  know  that  no  offense  had  occurred  on  either  side.  That  was  the  Mr.  Thomas  I  knew,  a  nice  manwho  went  to  sea  and  always  brought  me  back  the  fish  I  liked,  which  my  mother  would  then  cook  in  asauce  of  lime  juice,  butter,  onions,  and  green  pepper.  And,  in  turn,  I  suppose  he  would  have  said,  if  he  could,  that  the  Little  Miss  he  knew  was  a  teen-age  girl  so  beyond  reproach  in  every  way  that  if  you  asked  her  a  question  she  would  reply  in  her  mother's  forty-year-old  voice-hardly  a  prospect  for  a  secret  rendezvous.  After  Myrna  had  finished  telling  me  her  story,  we  walked  home  in  silence.  There  were  so  many  things  to  say,  so  many  questions  to  ask,  but  I  didn't  know  where  to  start.  I  was  afraid  that  if  I  asked  one  thing  I  would  reveal  my  feelings  and  show  how  familiar  I  was  with  what  she  had  just  described.  I  could  not  ask,  forinstance,  &quot;Did  it  feel  great?,&quot;  which  was  really  one  of  the  things  I  most  wanted  to  know.  I  might  betray  that  right  then  I  was  screaming  inside,  &quot;This  should  have  happened  to  me!  This  should  have  been  me!&quot;  I  could  have  retreated  into  falseness  and  said  all  the  appropriate  disapproving  things,  but  I  saw  she  was  beyond  this.  Our  houses  were  soon  in  view,  and  so  I  said,  mock  sympathy  on  my  face  and  in  my  voice,  &quot;Did  it  hurt?&quot;  The  look  she  gave-I  was  the  one  who  felt  like  dirt.  That  night,  as  I  lay  on  my  bed,  of  course  unable  to  sleep,  I  thought  of  the  events  of  the  day,  dwelling  not  so  much  on  Mr.  Thomas's  falling  overboard  as  on  Myrna  and  Mr.  Thomas's  meeting  in  the  alley  near  the  latrine,  under  the  shade  of  the  breadfruit  tree.  I  imagined  her  at  the  end  of  a  long  day,  after  cooking  her  family's  food,  washing  their  clothes,  getting  water  from  the  pipesthat  were  far  away  from  her  house,  and  in  other  ways  waiting  on  themhand  and  foot,  and  then  finally,  after  eating  her  supper,  perhaps  pre-  tending  to  make  a  visit  to  the  latrine,  waiting  in  the  dark  for  Mr.  Thomas.  She  had  made  mention  of  no  kiss  on  the  hair,  no  fierce  tongue  in  her  ear  or  mouth,  no  kisses  on  the  neck,  no  hands  caressing  breasts.  Just  his  hands  be-  tween  her  legs,  with  one  finger  going  up  inside  her.  And  there  I  had  to  stop.  What  did  Mr.  Thomas's  hands  look  like?  I  did  not  know.  At  the  time,  I  thought  it  would  haunt  me  until  the  day  Idied.I  had  never  noticed  his  hands.  I  remembered  many  things  about  him:  his  mouth,  his  teeth,  his  gums,  even  his  feet.  His  feet  were  big  and  broad,  with  cracks  around  the  heels.  I  had  never  seen  a  pair  of  shoes  " b"on  them.  I  had  once  seen  him  walking  in  mud.  The  mud  was  soft,  and  it  came  through  his  toes,  four  little  pats  deco-  rating  the  ground.  But  his  hands-  what  did  they  look  like?  I  did  not  know,  and  I  never  would  know.  And  so  it  was  that  hands  I  would  come  to  know  very  well-Paul's  hands,  moving  about  in  the  fish  tank-reminded  me  of  some  other  hands  lost  forever  in  a  warm  sea.  BECAUSE  Peggy  and  I  were  now  not  getting  along,  we  naturally  started  to  talk  about  finding  an  apart-  ment  in  which  we  would  live  together.  It  was  an  old  story:  two  people  are  in  love,  and  then  just  at  the  moment  they  fall  out  of  love  they  decide  to  marry.  Our  thoughts  went  this  way:  would  it  not  be  nice  if  Peggy  no  longer  had  to  take  a  train  each  day  back  to  the  house  in  which  she  lived  with  her  parents,  two  people  whose  views  about  every-  thing  she  found  abominable;  would  it  not  be  nice  if  I  no  longer  had  to  live  in  Mariah  and  Lewis's  apartment  and  take  care  of  their  children,  if  I  could  have  a  life  of  my  own  and  come  and  go  at  my  own  convenience  and  when  it  pleased  me?  There  was  nothing  wrong  with  my  life  asI  lived  it  with  Mariah  and  Lewis,  but  I  could  hardly  imagine  spending  the  rest  of  it  overseeing  their  children  in  one  situation  or  another.  And  the  children  would  not  remain  children  forever.  I  began  to  feel  like  a  dog  on  a  leash,  a  long  leash  buta  leash  all  the  same.  Mariah  was  like  a  mother  to  me,  a  good  mother.     \n\nIf  she  went  to  a  store  to  buy  herself  new  things,  she  thought  of  me  and  would  bring  me  some-  thing  also.  Sometimes  she  paid  me  more  mon-  ey  than  it  had  been  agreed  I  would  earn.  When  I  told  her  how  much  I  enjoyed  going  to  the  museum,  she  gave  me  my  own  card  of  membership.  Al-  ways  she  expressed  concern  for  my  well-  being.  I  realized  again  and  again  how  lucky  I  was  to  have  met  her  and  to  work  for  her  and  not,  for  instance,  some  of  her  friends.  But  there  was  no  use  pretending.  I  was  not  the  sort  of  person  who  counted  blessings;  I  was  the  sort  of  person  for  whom  there  could  never  be  enough  blessings.  Besides,  there  was  something  else.  When  I  was  around  thirteen  or  so,  my  mother  had  pointed  out  to  me  a  girl  -her  goddaughter,  in  fact-who  had  just  turned  nineteen  years  of  age;  my  mother  had  said  what  a  wonderful  person  this  girl  was,  how  she  had  given  her  parents  such  cause  to  be  proud  of  her,  and  how,  generallyspeaking,  she  was  a  good  example  to  all  girls  who  came  after  her.  I  had  known  this  girl  close  up,  and  I  had  come  to  a  different  conclusion  about  her.  For  my  mother  used  to  place  me  in  her  care  from  time  to  time,  hoping,  I  suppose,  that  some  of  her  good  example  would  rub  off  on  me.  If  I  did  anything  sheconsidered  bad,  she  would  threaten  to  give  me  senna  tea,  apurgative  that  caused  bad  stom-  ach  gripes;  or  she  would  threaten  to  put  me  in  a  barrel  and  shut  the  lid  tight  and  forget  about  me.  When  I  did  things  that  pleased  her,  she  would  bathe  me  and  comb  my  hair  and  dress  me  up  in  her  old  clothes,  and  then  she  would  insist  that  I  go  to  sleep  in  a  clothes  basket  lined  with  clean  rags.  I  was  much  too  big  for  the  basket,  but  she  would  force  me  to  lie  in  it  all  cramped  up  until  she  thought  an  ap-  propriate  time  had  passed.  It  was  hard  tosee  the  difference  between  the  pun-  ishments  for  one  set  of  things  and  the  rewards  for  others.  This  girl's  name  was  Maude,  Maude  Quick,  and  her \n\n father  was  the  head  of  jails-Her  Majesty's  Prisons-and  I  used  to  think  of  her  as  my  own  personal  jailer.  I  had  long  ago  grown  to  despise  her,  and  so  as  soon  as  my  mother  finished  singing  this  long  Psalm  of  Maude,  I  burst  out,  &quot;When  I  turn  nineteen  I  will  be  living  at  home  only  if  I  drop  [REDACTED];  This  made  my  mother  fall  into  a  silence-a  sadness,  really-for  she  didn't  know  what  to  do.  It  was  the  beginning  of  my  expressing  hatred,  hostility,  anger  toward  my  parents,  sometimes  with  words,  sometimes  with  deeds.  And  now  it  was  true,  but  not  true  enough  to  suit  me:  I  was  nineteen,  I  was  not  dead,  I  was  not  living  in  the  home  I  grew  up  in.  I  was  living  in  a  home,  though,  and  it  was  not  my  own.  \n\nA STRANGE  calm  had  come  over  Mariah  and  Lewis's  apartment  now.  They  quarrelled  constantly  but  never  in  my  presence.  I  would  return  to  the  apartment  after  running  an  errand  with  the  children  in  tow,  and  I  could  smell  the  disagreement  in  the  air.  Something  serious  had  been  said.  Per-  haps  it  was  &quot;I  no  longer  love  you.&quot;  Lewis  would  have  said  that,  and  it  was  true;  he  no  longer  loved  Mariah.  He  would  have  said  it  in  a  kind  way,  because  itis  so  easy  to  be  kind  when  you  are  in  his  position,  the  winning-  hand  position.  Always  when  I  came  in,  Mariah's  eyes  were  in  one  of  the  vari-  ous  stages  of  a  cry.  Mariah  was,  after  all,  not  my  mother,  for  anyone  who  made  my  mother  cry  so  much-she  would  have  seen  to  that  person's  demise  imme-  diately.  -  One  day  Mariah  and  I  were  in  the  kitchen,  seated  at  the  table.  This  is  where  we  al-  ways  found  ourselves  if  we  had  to  talk  about  anything  at  all.  She  had  made  me  a  cup  of  coffee,  strong,  with  lots  of  hot,  steaming  milk,  and  she  had  served  it  to  me  in  a  large  cup,  the  size  of  a  small  bowl.  She  had  learned  to  make  it  that  way  in  [REDACTED],  where  she  had  lived  when  she  was  about  my  age.  I  1  began  to  tell  her  about  my  life  with  Paul,     \n\n\n " b"which  was  spent  almost  entirely  inhis  bed.  I  told  her  everything  that  we  did,  all  the  small  details  that  to  someone  with  more  experience  of  the  world  would  have  gone  unnoticed.  There  was  much  to  take  note  of;  except  for  eating,  all  the  time  we  spent  together  was  devoted  tosex.I  told  her  what  every-  thing  felt  like,  how  surprised  I  was  to  be  thrilled  by  the  violence  of  it  (for  sometimes  it  was  that,  violent),  what  an  adventure  this  part  of  my  life  had  become,  and  how  much  I  looked  for-  ward  to  it,  because  I  had  not  known  that  such  pleasure  could  exist  and,  what  was  more,  be  available  to  me.  I  had  been  speaking  in  this  way  for  a  while  when  Mariah  interrupted  and  said,  &quot;We  have  such  bad  sex.&quot;  Those  words  came  as  a  shock  to  me,  for  I  had  never  thought  of  that.  Bad  sex.I  won-  dered  what  exactly  did  she  mean.  From  my  mother  I  had  gathered  that  the  experience  would  leave  you  feeling  indifferent,  that  during  it  you  might  make  out  the  grocery  list,  pick  out  a  style  of  curtains,  memorize  a  subtle  but  choice  insult  for  people  who  imagined  themselves  above  you.  But  I  had  never  imagined  the  word  &quot;bad&quot;  could  be  applied  to  it,  and  as  soon  as  she  said  it  I  knew  what  she  meant:  it  was  like  want-  ing  a  sugar  apple  and  getting  a  spoiled  one;  and  while  you're  eatingthe  spoiled  one,  the  memory  of  a  good-tasting  one  will  not  go  away.  Mariah  then  told  me  of  how,  during  the  time  she  was  my  age  and  living  in  [REDACTED],  she  had  stayed  with  a  family,  friends  of  her  parents,  and  begun  an  affair  with  the  husband.  It  was  a  disaster.  She  said,  &quot;His  erec-  tion  would  grow  limp  whenever  he  tried  to  enter  me.&quot;  She  had  blamed  herself,  as  only  Mariah  would;  she  had  thought  there  was  something  wrong  with  her  or  that  she  was  doing  some-  thing  wrong  altogether.  She  later  came  to  understand  that  he  was  an  old,  im-  potent  man  and  that  he  found  it  easier  to  blame  a  young  girl  for  his  condition  than  to  face  the  possibility  that  in  this  area  he  was  all  washed  up.  The  inci-  dent  had  left  a  mark,  and  it  always  took  her  a  while  with  a  new  lover  to  for-  get  herself  completely.  I  didn't  say  it,  but  I  thought,  Of  course  what  you  need  right  now  is  to  forget  yourself  completely.  O  NE  day  a  letter  arrived  for  me,  and  written  all  over  the  envelope  in  my  mother's  beautiful  handwriting  was the  word  &quot;URGENT.&quot;  To  me  the  letter  might  as  well  have  had  written  all  over  it  the  words  &quot;Do  not  open  until  dooms-  day,&quot;  because  I  added  it  to  all  the  unopened  letters  I  had  received  from  home.  That  day  I  decided  to  go  and  buy  a  camera.  Mariah  had  given  me  a  book  of  photographs,  because  in  the  museum  were  some  photographs  that  I  particularly  liked.  They  were  photo-  graphs  of  ordinary  people  in  a  country-  side  doing  ordinary  things,  but  for  a  reason  that  was  not  at  all  clear  to  me  the  people  and  the  things  they  were  doing  looked  extraordinary-as  if  these  people  and  these  things  had  not  existed  before.  When  I  said  to  her  how  much  it  pleased  me  to  go  and  look  at  these  pictures,  she  went  out  and  bought  me  a  book  that  contained  all  of  them.  Whenever  I  had  a  free  moment,  I  would  sit  in  my  room  and  pore  over  this  book.  The  people  in  the  photographs  reminded  me  of  people  I  had  known-a  photograph  of  one  boy,  in  particular.  He  was  wearing  short  pants,  walking  along  in  a  jaunty  way,  and  he  carried  in  his  arms  two  large  bottles.  He  re-   minded  me  of  a  boy  I  used  to  know,  a  boy  named  Cuthbert.  He  was  a  distant  cousin  of  mine  who  lived  on  another  island,  and  so  I  never  sawhim  enough  to  get  tired  of  him.  His  breath  always  smelled  as  if  it  were  morning  and  he  had  just  gotout  of  bed-stale  and  moldy.  I  liked  that  smell  so  much  that  whenever  I  had  totalkto  him  I  used  to  position  myself  so  that  the  smell  of  his  breath  would  come  my  way.  From  looking  at  this  book  of  photographs,  I  decided  to  buy  myself  a  camera.  And  then  something  happened  that  I  had  not  counted  on  at  all.  At  the  store  where  I  bought  the  camera,  the  man  who  sold  it  to  me-he  and  I  went  off  and  spent  the  rest  of  the  day  and  half  of  that  night  in  his  bed.  The  moment  we  knew  it  would  end  up  that  way  was  when,  as  he  was  handing  to  me  a  camera  that  folded  up  like  a  jack-in-  the-box,  I  looked  across  at  his  face  and  said,  &quot;You  remind  me  of  my  father,&quot;  and  he  said,  &quot;In  thatcase  you  should  kiss  me.&quot;  His  reply  was  a  joke,  but  it  confirmed  my  observation.  I  waited  two  hours  outside  the  store  for  him  to  finish  " b"  his  work,  and  then  we  went  to  his  apartment.  On  the  way,  we  exchanged  the  usual  information:  our  names,  where  we  were  from,  things  we  liked,  things  we  did  not  like.  His  name  was  Roland;  he  was  born  in  [REDACTED]  but  his  parents  were  from  Martinique;  he  liked  the  sound  of  rain  falling  on  tree  leaves,  it  made  him  feel  soothed;  he  did  not  like  snow.  It  was  information  to  pass  the  time,  information  to  avoid  awkward-  ness,  information  of  no  real  impor-  tance,  and  we  knew  that.  We  did  not  exchange  telephone  numbers.  I  left  Roland's  bedonly  because  I  had  told  Paul  that  I  would  see  him  later  that  night.  Paul  was  used  to  this.  Peggy  could  not  stand  to  be  with  the  two  of  us,  and  so  I  would  spend  the  first  part  of  the  evening  with  her  and  then  go  to  spend  the  rest  of  the  night  with  Paul.  Always  Peggy  and  I  quarrelled  before  we  parted,  but  we  knew  we  would  speak  to  or  see  each  other  the  next  day.  The  night  was  cold;  there  was  a  wind.  Roland  lived  on  the  opposite  side  of  town  from  Paul,  so  I  took  a  taxi;  it  was  a  half  hour's  ride  away,  enough  time  to  bury  a  secret.  At  the  door  I  planted  a  kiss  on  Paul's  mouth  with  an  uncon-  trollable  ardor  that  I  actually  did  feel-  a  kiss  of  treachery,  for  I  could  still  taste  the  other  man  in  my  mouth.  The  cold  wind  had  left  my  lips  the  texture  of  stale  toast,  but  he  ate  me  up  as  if  I  were  a  freshly  baked  cake.  He  was  glad  to  see  me  and  said,  &quot;I  love  you,&quot;  and  I  thought,  So  that's  what  that  sounds  like  when  someone  really  means  it.  I  kissed  him  doubly  hard,  and  instantly  I  knew  it  was  a  mistake,  for  he  mistook  my  enthusiasm  for  his  love  returned.  In  the  morning,  he  said  that  Peggy  had  called  me  intheearlypart  of  the  evening,  wanting  to  know  if  I  was  with  him.:  His  voice  was  without  suspicion.  I  said,  &quot;She's  such  a  nuisance,&quot;  and  flew  into  an  attack  on  her  character,  as  if  that  were  the  point.  He  did  not  know  that  what  he  wanted  was  an  answer  to  the  question,  Where  had  I  been  if  I  had  not  been  with  Peggy  or  at  home?  THE  children  and  I  had  gone  for  a  walk  in  the  park,  and  we  returned  to  the  apartment  with  the  usual  sounds  of  torment  and  pleasure.  Lewis  and  Mariah  were  sitting  in  their  living  room,  and  the  children  ran  in  to  greet  them.  I  followed,  carrying  my  camera,  which  I  now  took  with  me  everywhere,  and  when  I  saw  them,  apart  yet  close  together,  Mariah's  eyes  red  from  tears,  a  crooked  smile  on  her  face  as  if  she  were  a  child  trying  to  put  up  a  brave  front,  I  knew  that  the  end  was  here,  the  ruin  was  in  front  of  me.  For  a  reason  that  will  never  be  known  to  me,  I  said,  &quot;Say  'cheese,'&quot;  and  took  a  " b"picture.  Lewis  said,  &quot;Jesus  Christ,&quot;  and  he  left  our  company  in  anger.  Mariah  held  out  her  arms  and  hugged  all  four  of  her  children  together  in  a  big  embrace  and  said  to  me,  &quot;I'm  sorry.&quot;  I  thought,  Why  apologize  for  a  swine?  And  then  I  wondered  when  I  had  come  to  think  of  Lewis  as  a  swine:  I  had  always  liked  him;  he  had  always  been  kind  to  me.  And  then  I  knew:  he  made  Mariah  cry,  and  I  had  taken  her  side;  that  was  something  I  would  al-  ways  do.  And  I  could  see  the  manner  in  which  Lewis  had  left  her.  It  was  he  who  was  really  leaving,  but  he  would  never  come  right  out  and  tell  her  so.  He  was  the  sort  of  person-a  cultivated  man,  usually-who  cannot  speak  his  mind.  It  wasn't  that  speaking  frankly  had  been  bred  out  of  him;  it  was  just  that  a  man  in  his  position  always  knew  exactly  what  he  wanted,  and  so  every-  I  thought  my  ear  was  cusped  at  the  source  of  sound,  the  joya  slow  and  steady  rising,  a  lightness  in  the  wind's  song  I  knew  could  last  for  as  long  as  I  stayed  out-of-doors,  where  things  were  not  bereft,  and  fixed  beyond  imagining.  Torn-open  animals  stunned  on  shelves.  Litter  of  screens,  bottles  of  dye.  Inside,  Hap's  wife  Maggie  asks  what  I  want  to  play.  I  say,  &quot;Gin  rummy.&quot;  My  mother  looked  so  lovely  as,  balanced  on  the  porch  rail,  she  shifted  in  hershawl.  I  remember  everything  about  the  day  except  not  breathing,  except  thing  was  done  for  him.  Sometimes  he  and  I  would  play  a  game  of  checkers.  I  was  pretty  good  at  this  game,  but  I  couldnever  beat  him.  His  strategy  was  to  attack  in  an  underhanded  way;  and,  no  matter  what,  I  would  oblige  him  by  blundering  into  defeat.  Afterward  he  was  kind  enough  to  show  me  where  I  had  gonewrong.  &quot;Sorry,&quot;  he  would  say,  &quot;next  time,&quot;  but  next  time  was  just  the  same.  He  was  too  clever,  that  man,  and  too  used  to  getting  his  way.  He  would  leave  her,  but  he  would  make  her  think  that  it  was  she  who  was  leaving  him.  The  children  were  no  longer  in  the  room.  Hermouth  opened.  I  knew  what  she  would  say  before  she  said  it.  She  said,  &quot;I  am  going  to  ask  Lewis  to  leave.&quot;  She  looked  at  me  with  concern  on  her  face;  sheputouta  hand  to  me,  offering  me  support.  But  I  was  fine.  I  would  not  have  married  a  man  like  Lewis. I  was  lying  in  bed  one  night.  The  children  were  already  asleep.  The  house  was  quiet.  I  had  draped  a  small  square  of  false  silk  over  my  bedside  lamp,  and  it  made  the  room  into  a  mingling  of  early  dusk  and  the  last  remains  of  a  faraway  sunset.  This  re-  minded  me  of  home,  and  a  peculiar  feeling  came  over  me,  a  combination  of  happy  excitement,  expectation,  and  dread.  All  around  me  on  the  walls  of  my  room  were  photographs  I  had  tak-  en,  in  black  and  white,  of  the  children  with  Mariah,  of  Mariah  all  by  herself,  and  of  some  of  the  things  I  had  ac-  quired  since  leaving  home.  I  had  no  photographs  of  Lewis  and  no  photo-  graphs  of  myself.  I  was  trying  to  imi-  tate  the  mood  of  the  photographs  in  the  book  Marizh  had  given  me,  and  though  inthat  regard  Ifailed  com-  pletely,  I  was  pleased  with  them  all  the  same.  I  had  a  picture  of  the  children  " b"eating  toasted  marshmallows;  a  picture  of  them  with  their  bottoms  facing  the  camera-their  way  of  showing  me  how  disgusted  they  were  with  requests  for  more  smiles;  a  picture  of  Mariah  in  the  middle  of  an  elaborate  preparation  of  chicken  and  vegetables  cooked  slowly  in  red  wine;  a  picture  of  my  dresser  top  with  my  dirty  panties  and  lipstick,  an  unused  sanitary  napkin,  and  an  open  pocketbook  scattered  about;  a  pictureof  a  necklace  made  of  strange  seeds,  which  I  had  bought  from  a  woman  on  the  street;  a  picture  of  a  vase  I  had  bought  at  the  museum,  a  reproduction  of  one  found  at  the  site  of  a  lost  civilization.  Why  is  a  picture  of  something  real  eventually  more  exciting  than  the  thing  itself?  I  did  not  yet  know  the  answer  to  that.  I  was  lying  there  in  a  state  of  no  state,  almost  as  if  under  ether,  thinking  nothing,  feeling  noth-  ing.  It  is  a  bad  way  to  be-your  spirit  feels  the  void  and  will  summon  some-  thing  to  come  in,  usually  something  bad.  There  was  a  knock,  and  the  door  opened.  It  was  Mariah.  Someone  was  there  tosee  me.  From  the  way  she  said  it,  I  could  tell  it  wasn't  someone  she  knew;  I  could  tell  it  wasn't  good  news.  I  followed  Mariah  into  the  living  room  and  saw  seated  there,  in  a  chair  that  had  too  much  stuffing,  a  familiar  face,  the  faceof  Maude  Quick,  only  now  she  was  a  woman.  She  was  still  a  bully-I  could  see  it  in  her  thick  frame,  which  matched  the  chair  she  sat  in.  When  she  saw  me,  she  stood,  growing  up  and  out.  She  said  my  name,  and  I  felt  as  if  all  the  earth's  gravity  had  been  gathered  and  made  to  center  only  on  me;  I  was  reduced  to  a  tiny  speck  that  weighed  a  world.  She  said  that  she  had  been  home  for  a  fewweeks  and  had  returned  only  yesterday.  She  said,  &quot;Here,&quot;  and  she  gave  me  a  blue  envelope  that  had  stamped  on  it  &quot;PAR  AVION,&quot;  and  my  name  and  address  written  in  my  moth-  er's  handwriting.  She  said,  &quot;Your  mother  asked  me  to  give  you  this.&quot;  She  said,  &quot;Your  father  died  a  month  ago  now.&quot;  She  said,  &quot;It  happened  all  of  a  sudden.  His  heart  just  gave  out.&quot;  She  said,  &quot;You  know,  his  heart  always  gave  him  trouble.&quot;  I  was  silent.  I  remained  silent  for  a  long  time.  I  was  thinking,  Look  at  how  pleased  with  herself  this  person  is.  I  was  thinking,  Everything  she  has  ever  done  has  brought  her  such  satisfaction:  eating,  especially  eating,  sleeping,  tell-  ing  me  the  things  she  has  just  told  me.  She  said,  &quot;'Your  mother  is  so  sad  you  never  answer  her  letters.  Perhaps  you  never  receive  them.&quot;  Mariah  had  not  left  the  room;  she  had  been  standing  a  little  bit  away  from  where  we  were  standing.  She  now  came  and  stood  beside  me  and  placed  one  arm  around  my  shoulders,  and  with  the  other  she  held  on  to  my  two  hands;  she drew  me  close  to  her.  She  must  have  known  that  I  was  about  to  break  apart,  and  what  she  was  doing  was  holding  me  together  in  one  piece,  like  the  series  of  tin  bands  that  hold  a  box  of  goods  together  if  it  is  being  sent  far  overseas.  I  sat  still  in  silence.  My  head  ached,  my  eyes  ached,  my  mouth  was  dry  but  I  could  not  swallow,  my  throat  ached,  inside  my  ears  was  the  sound  of  waves  wanting  to  break  free  but  only  dashing  themselves  against  a  wall  of  rocks.  I  could  not  ery.  I  could  not  speak.  I  was  trying  to  getthe  muscles  in  my  face  to  do  what  I  wanted  them  to  do,  trying  to  gain  control  over  myself.  Maude  laughed,  a  small  laugh,  the  laugh  of  someone  who  did  not  even  have  to  make  an  effort  to  be  correct.  She  said,  &quot;You  remind  me  of  Miss  Annie,  you  really  remind  me  of  your  mother.&quot;  I  was  dying,  and  she  saved  my  life.  I  shall  always  be  grateful  to  her  for  that.  She  could  not  have  known  that  in  one  careless  sentence  she  said  the  only  thing  that  could  keep  me  alive.  I  said,  &quot;I  am  not  like  my  mother.  She  and  I  are  not  alike.  She  should  not  have  married  my  father.  She  should  not  have  had  chil-  dren.  She  should  not  have  thrown  away  her  intelligence.  She  should  not  have  paid  so  little  attention  to  mine.  She  should  have  ignored  someone  like  you.  I  am  not  like  her  at  all.&quot;  It's  possible  I  said  all  of  this  in  ancient  Greek,  for  Maude  only  looked  at  me  and  smiled.  Mariah  left  the  room-to  make  us  some  tea,  she  said.  I  sat  down.  I  said,  this  time  in  En-  glish,  &quot;You  are  looking  very  well,  Maude,&quot;  and  she  said,  &quot;Yes,  I  always  follow  the  advice  my  mother  gave  me.  When  I  was  leaving  home  for  the  first  time,  my  mother  said  to  me,  'Maude,  eat  all  your  meals  at  the  same  time  every  day.  Make  sure  of  that.'  &quot;  At  that  point  I  was  beyond  even  silently  heaping  scorn  on  such  an  incredible  piece  of  nonsense.  Of  course  she  urged  me  to  return  home  immediately.  I  made  no  reply  to  that,  I  made  no  reply  to  anything  she  said.  She  left  after  bestowing  on  me  her  benediction  of  an  embrace;  apart  from  everything  else,  she  left  behind  her  the  smell  of  clove,  lime,  and  rose  oil,  and  this  scent  almost  made  me  die  of  home-  sickness.  My  mother  used  to  bathe  me  in  water  in  which  the  leaves  and  flow-  -  ers  of  these  plants  had  been  boiled;  this  bath  was  to  protect  me  from  evil  spirits  " b"sent  to  me  by  some  of  the  women  who  had  loved  my  father  and  whom  he  had  not  loved  in  return.  And  how  did  this  business  of  not  returning  this  love  all  these  women  showered  on  him  get  started?  His  mother,  after  asking  his  father  to  bring  him  up,  left  for  England.  He  last  heard  from  her  when  he  was  twelve  years  old.  She  had  sent  him  a  pair  of  shoes  for  Christmas,  black  with  small  holes  that  made  a  decorative  pattern  at  the  front;  they  were  too  big  for  him  when  he  received  them,  and  so  he  put  them  away,  but  when  he  next  tried  them  on  he  had  outgrown  them.  He  still  had  them  in  his  safe,  where  he  kept  his  money  and  other  private  things,  and  every  once  in  a  while  he  would  show  them  to  me.  He  never  told  me  what  she  looked  like,  except  that  she  was  a  beau-  tiful  woman.  He  would  also  say  that  she  was  a  kind  woman,  but  even  then  I  thought  he  was  just  speaking  to  a  child  and  so  couldn't  tell  the  real  story,  his  realfeelings;  for  how  could  a  woman  be  called  kind  when  she  had  left  her  own  child  at  five  years  old,  and  just  to  get  on  aboat  and  sail  away?  He  never  saw  her  again,  and  when  he  told  me  about  her  he  had  no  idea  if  she  was  dead  or  alive.  When  he  was  seven,  his  father  left  him  with  his  grandmother  and  went  off  to  build  the  [REDACTED]  Canal.  My  father  never  saw  his  father  again,  either.  He  and  his  grandmother  slept  in  the  same  bed.  She  used  to  get  up  a  little  before  he  did  to  prepare  his  breakfast,  the  same  routine  my  mother  used  to  follow  and  must  have  followed  until  he  died.  One  morning  his  grandmother  didn't  awake  before  him,  and  when  he  finally  awoke  he  realized  that  she  was  lying  next  to  him  dead.  &quot;Shemust  have  died  in  the  middle  of  the  night  and  I  never  knew,&quot;  he  would  say  to  me.  He  never  said  his  grandmother  was  beauti-  ful  or  kind,  but  I  could  see  that  she  had  been  devoted  to  him.  My  mother  was  devoted  to  him.  She  was  devoted  to  her  duties:  a  clean  house,  delicious  food  for  us,  a  cleanyard,  a  small  garden  of  herbs  and  vegetables,  the  washing  and  iron-  ing  of  our  clothes.  He  must  have  loved  my  mother,  for  he  married  her-the  only  woman  he  married.  I  long  ago  thought  he  married  her  for  her  youth  and  strength,  the  way  someone  else  would  marry  for  money.  He  was  such  a  clever  man.  I  had  been  holding  on  so  hard  to  the  letter  Maude  had  brought  that  it  had  become  a  part  of  my  body,  and  I  no  longer  noticed  it.  When  I  did,  I  prayed  hard  to  be  indifferent  to  whatever  it  might  say.  I  opened  it.  It  repeated  the  things  I  already  knew.  My  father  had  died.  It  was  a  month  or  so  ago  now.  Though  for  a  long  time  he  had  suffered  from  a  weak  heart,  still  it  was  unex-  pected.  I  must  please  come  home  imme-  diately.  But  there  was  something  new.  My  father  had  died  leaving  my  mother  a  pauper.  He  had  no  money.  His  safe,  where  he  kept  the  shoes  his  mother  had  sent  him  and  other  things  valuable  to  him  and  where  he  also  kept  money,had  no  money  in  it.  When  she  went  to  the  bank,  his  account  had  no  money  in  it.  His  account  at  his  gentlemen's  lodge  had  no  money  in  it.  He  had  borrowed  so  much  against  his  insurance  policy  that  perhaps  he  owed  his  insurance  company  money,  and  my  mother  was  now  responsible  for  that.  My  mother  had  to  borrow  money  to  buryhim,  and  because  she  was  a  member  in  good  standing  the  church  provided  the  ser-  vice  for  free.  I  had  been  putting  away  some  money  for  the  apartment  Peggy  and  I  were  planning  to  share;  I  took  it  all  and  sent  it  to  my  mother.  Mariah,  on  hearing  this,  gave  me  double  what  I  already  had  sent,  and  I  sent  this  along,  too.  I  wrote  my  mother  a  letter;  it  was  a  cold  letter.  It  matched  my  heart.  It  amazed  even  me,  but  I  sent  it  all  the  same.  In  the  letter  I  asked  my  mother  how  she  could have  married  a  manwho  would  die  and  leave  her  in  debt  even  for  his  own  burial.  I  pointed  out  the  ways  she  had  betrayed  herself.  I  said  I  believed  she  had  betrayed  me  also,  and  that  I  knew  it  to  be  true  even  if  I  couldn't  find  a  concrete  example  right  then.  I  said  that  she  had  acted  like  a  saint,  but  that  since  I  was  living  in  this  real  world  I  had  really  wanted  just  a  mother.  I  reminded  her  that  my  whole  upbringing  had  been  devoted  to  preventing  me  from  becom-  inga  slut;  I  then  gave  a  brief  descrip-  tion  of  my  personal  life,  offering  each  detail  as  evidence  that  my  upbringing  had  been  a  failure  and  that,  in  fact,  life  as  a  slut  was  quite  enjoyable,  thank  you.  I  would  not  come  home  now,  I  said.  I  would  not  come  home  ever.  To  all  this  the  saint  replied  that  she  would  always  love  me,  she  would  al-  ways  be  my  mother,  my  home  would  never  be  anywhere  but  with  her.  I  burned  this  letter,  along  with  all  the  others  I  had  tied  up  in  aneat  little  bundle  that  had  been  resting  on  my  dresser,  in  Lewis  and  Mariah's  fire-  place.  ONE  night,  very  late,  Mariah  and  I  were  again  sitting  in  the  kitchen.  She  seemed  young  and  light,  I  seemed  old  and  leaden.  We  recognized  our  present  state  to  bea  response  to  our  different  situations:  she,  husbandless;  I,  fatherless.  It  was  as  if  we  had  been  reading  the  last  sentences  of  a  very  long  " b"paragraph  and  after  that  the  page  turned  blank.  Lewis  had  left  her,  but  she  really  thought  she  had  asked  him  to  leave.  She  said  they  were  getting  a  divorce;  she  said  the  children  were  in  a  state  of  confusion  and  she  was  worried  about  their  well-being;  she  said  she  felt  free.  I  meant  to  tell  her  not  to  bank  on  this  &quot;free&quot;  feeling,  that  it  would  vanish  like  a  magic  trick;  but  instead  I  told  her  of  a  ride  I  had  taken  to  the  country  with  Paul  that  afternoon.  Paul  had  wanted  to  show  me  an  old  mansion  in  ruins,  formerly  the  home  ofa  manwho  had  made  a  great  deal  of  money  in  the  part  of  the  world  that  I  was  from,  in  the  sugar  industry.  I  did  not  know  this  man,  but  if  he  hadn't  been  already  dead  I  would  have  wished  him  so.  As  we  drove  along,  Paul  spoke  of  the  great  explorers  who  had  crossed  the  great  seas,  not  only  to  find  riches,  he  said,  but  to  feelfree;  and  this  search  for  freedom  was  part  of  the  whole  human  situation.  Until  that  moment  I  had  no  ideathat  he  had  such  a  hobby-freedom.  Along  the  side  of  the  road  were  dead  animals  -deer,  raccoons,  badgers,  squirrels  that  had  been  trying  to  get  from  one  sideto  the  other  when  fast-moving  cars  put  a  stop  to  them.  I  tried  to  puta  light  note  in  my  voice  as  I  said  to  him,  &quot;Some  people  find  riches,  some  people  find  death,&quot;  but  I  did  not  succeed.  When  I  finished  telling  Mariah  this,  she  was  silent  for  a  while,  and  then  she  said,  &quot;Why  don't  you  forgive  your  mother  for  whatever  it  is  you  feel  she  LJ  has  done?  Why  don't  you  just  go  home  and  tell  her  you  forgive  her?&quot;  Each  word,  as  she  said  it,  stood  out  as  if  it  were  a  separate  entity,  carved  in  some-  thing  solid,  something  bitter  and  solid.  Her  words  made  me  remember  how  it  was  that  I  came  to  hate  my  mother,  and  with  the  memory  came  a  flood  of  tears  that  tasted  as  if  they  were  juice  squeezed  from  an  aloe  plant.  I  was  not  an  only  child,  but  it  was  almost  as  if  I  were  ashamed  of  this,  because  I  had  never  told  anyone,  not  even  Mariah.  I  was  an  only  child  until  I  was  nine  years  old,  and  then  in  the  space  of  five  years  my  mother  had  three  male  children;  each  time  a  new  child  was  born,  my  mother  and  father  announced  to  each  other  with  great  seriousness  that  the  new  child  would  go  to  universityin  En-  gland  and  study  to  become  a  doctor  or  lawyer  or  someone  who  would  occupy  an  important  and  influential  position  in  society.  I  did  not  mind  my  father  saying  these  things  about  his  sons,  his  own  kind,  and  leaving  me  out.  My  father  did  not  know  me  at  all;  I  did  not  expect  him  to  imagine  a  life  for  me  filled  with  excitement  and  triumph.  But  my  moth-  er  knew  me  well,  as  well  as  she  knew  herself:  I,  at  the  time,  even  thought  of  us  as  identical;  and  whenever  I  saw  her  eyes  fill  up  with  tearsat  the  thought  of  how  proud  she  would  be  at  some  deed  her  sons  had  accomplished,  I  felt  a  sword  go  through  my  heart,  for  there  was  no  accompanying  scenario  in'  which  she  saw  me,  her  only  identical  offspring,in  a  remotely  similar  situation.  To  myself  I  then  began  to  call  her  Mrs.  Judas,  and  I  began  to  plan  a  separation  from  her  that  even  then  I  suspected  would  never  be  complete.  As  I  was  telling  Mariah  all  these  things,  all  sorts  of  little  details  of  my  life  on  the  island  where  I  grew  up  came  back  to  me:  the  color  of  six  o'clock  in  the  evening  sky  on  the  day  I  went  to  call  the  midwife  to  assist  my  mother  in  the  birth  of  my  first  brother;  the  white  of  the  chemise  that  my  mother  embroidered  for  the  birth  of  my  second  brother;  the  redness  of  the  red  antsthat  attacked  my  third  brother  as  he  layin  bed  next  to  my  mother  a  day  after  he  was  born;  the  navy  blue  of  the  sailor  suit  my  first  brother  wore  when  my  father  took  him  to  a  cricket  match;  the  absence  of  red  lipstick  on  my  mother's  mouth  after  they  were  all  born;  the  day  the  men  from  the  prison  in  their  black-  and-white  jail  clothes  came  to  cut  down  a  plum  tree  that  grew  in  our  yard,  because  one  of  my  brothers  had  almost  choked  to  death  swallowing  whole  a  plum  he  picked  up  from  the  ground.  I  suddenly  had  to  stop  speaking;  my  mouth  was  empty,  my  tongue  had  col-  lapsed  into  my  throat.  I  thought  I  would  turn  to  stone  just  then.  Mariah  wanted  to  rescue  me.  She  spoke  of  women  in  society,  women  in  history,  women  in  culture,  women  everywhere.  But  I  couldn't  speak,  so  I  couldn't  tell  her  that  my  mother  was  my  mother  and  that  society  and  history  and  culture  and  other  women  in  general  were  some-  thing  else  altogether.  Mariah  left  the  room  and  came  back  with  a  large  book  and  opened  it  to  the  first  chapter.  She  gave  it  to  me.  I  read  the  first  sentence.  &quot;Woman?  Very  sim-  ple,  saythe  fanciers  of  simple  formulas:  she  is  a  womb,  an  ovary;  she  is  a  female  -this  word  is  sufficient  to  define  her.&quot;  I  had  to  stop.  Mariah  had  completely  misinterpreted  my  situation.  My  life  could  not  really  be  explained  by  this  thick  book  that  made  my  hands  hurt  as  I  tried  to  keep  it  open.  My  life  was  at  once  something  more  simple  and  more  complicated  than  that:  for  ten  of  my  nineteen  years  I  had  been  mourning  the  end  of  a  love  affair,  perhaps  the  only  true  love  in  my  whole  life  I  would  ever  know."