 b"THE  houses  turn  aside  from  the  village  street,  lengthwise,  to  be  private.  But  they're  painted  with  flowery  and  fruity  scrolls  and  garlands.  Blossoming  vines  are  strung  like  wash-  ing  along  the  narrow  porches'  dimin-  ishing  perspective.  Tomatoes  and  dai-  sies  climb  together  behind  picket  fences.  Crowded  in  a  slot  of  garden  are  pens  and  cages  for  chickens  and  ducks,  and  there's  a  pig.  But  not  in  the  house  he  came  from;  there  wouldn't  have  been  a  pig.  The  post  office  is  made  of  slatted  wood  with  a  carved  valance  under  the  roof-a  post-office  sign  is  recognizable  anywhere,  in  any  language,  although  this  is  one  from  a  time  before  airmail:  not  a  stylized  bird  but  a  curved  post  horn  with  cord  and  tassels.  It's  from  here  that  the  letters  would  have  gone,  arranging  his  passage.  There's  a  bench  outside  and  an  old  woman  sits  there  shelling  peas.  She's  wearing  a  black  scarf  tied  over  her  head,  and  an  apron;  she  has  the  lipless  closed  mouth  of  someone  who  has  lost  teeth.  How  old?  The  age  of  a  woman  without  estrogen  pills,  hair-tint  charts,  sunscreen,  and  anti-wrinkle  creams.  She  packed  for  him.  The  clothes  of  a  cold  country-he  had  no  others.  She  sewed  up  rents  and  darned  socks.  And  what  else?  A  cap,  a  coat;  a  boy  of  thirteen  might  not  have  owned  a  hand-me-down  suit  yet.  Or  one  might  have  been  obtained  specially  for  him,  for  the  voy-  age,  for  the  future.  Horse-drawn  carts  clomp  and  rattle  along  the  streets.  Wagons  sway  to  the  gait  of  fringe-hooved  teams  on  the  roads  between  towns,  delaying  cars  and  buses  back  into  another  century.  He  was  hoisted  onto  one  of  these  carts  with  his  bag,  wearing  the  suit;  certainly  the  cap.  Boots  newly  mended  by  the  member  of  the  family  whose  trade  this  was.  Pa  There  must  have  been  a  shoemaker  among  them;  that  was  the  other  choice  open  to  him:he  could  have  learned  shoe-  making  but  had  decided  for  watchmak-  ing.  They  must  have  equipped  him  with  the  loupe  for  his  eye  and  the  minia-  ture  screwdrivers  and  screws,  the  hair-  springs,  the  fish-scale  watch  glasses;  these  would  be  in  his  bag  as  well.  And  some  religious  necessities:  the  shawl,  the  things  to  wind  around  his  arm  and  brow.  She  wouldn't  have  forgotten  those;  he  was  thirteen,  they  had  kept  him  home  and  fed  him  at  least  until  their  religion  said  he  was  a  man.  At  the  station  the  Gypsies  are  singing  in  the  bar.  It's  night.  The  train  sweats  a  fog  of  steam  in  the  autumn  cold  and  he  could  be  standing  there  somewhere,  beside  his  bag,  waiting  to  board.  She  might  have  come  with  him  this  far,  but  more  likely  not-when  he  clambered  up  to  the  cart,  that  was  the  end  for  her.  She  never  saw  him  again.  The  man  with  the  beard,  the  family  head,  was  there.  He  was  the  one  who  had  saved  for  the  train  ticket  and  ship's  passage.  There  are  no  farewells;  there's  no  room  for  sorrow  in  the  drunken  joy  of the  Gypsies  filling  the  bar,  the  shack  glows  with  their  heat,  a  hearth  in  the  dark  of  the  night.  The  bearded  man  is  going  with  his  son  to  the  sea,  where  the  old  life  ends.  He  will  find  him  a  place  in  the  lower  levels  of  the  ship,  he  will  hand  over  the  tickets  and  bits  of  paper  that  will  tell  the  future  who  the  boy  was.  \xe2\x80\x98N7E  had  bought  smoked  paprika  sausage  and  slivovitz  for  the  trip.  The  party  was  too  big  to  fit  into  one  car,  so  it  was  more  fun  to  take  a  train.  Among  the  padded  shotgun  sleeves  and  embossed-leather  gun  cases  we  sang  and  passed  the  bottle  round,  finding  one  another's  remarks  uproari-  ous.  The  Frenchman  had  a  nest  of  thimble-size  silver  cups  and  he  sliced  the  sausage  toward  his  thumb,  using  a  horn-handled  knife  from  the  hotel  gift  shop  in  the  capital.  The  Englishman  tried  to  read  a  copy  of  Cobbett's  &quot;Rural  Rides,&quot;  but  it  lay  on  his  lap  while  the  clear  liquor  opened  up  in  him  unhappi-  ness  in  his  marriage  that  he  confided  to  a  woman  he  had  not  met  before.  Restless  with  pleasure,  people  went  in  and  out  of  the  compartment,  let-  ting  in  a  turned-up  volume  of  motion  and  buffets  of  fresh  air;  with  my  forehead  rest,  ing  against  the  cor-  ridor  window,  I  saw  nothing  but  trees,  trees,  the  twist  of  a  river  with  a  rotting  boat,  the  fading  Eastern  Euro-  pean  summer,  distant  from  the  sun.  Back  inside  to  catch  up  with  the  party:  someone  was  being  ap-  plauded  for  producing  a  bottle  of  wine,  some-  one  else  was  taking  teasing  instruction  on  how  to  photograph  with  a  newfangled  camera.  At  the  stations  of  towns  nobody  looked  at-the  same  indus-  trial  intestines  of  fac-  tory  yards  and  junk  tips  traversed  by  railway  lines  wherever  in  the  world  we  came  from-  local  people  boarded  and  sat  on  suitcases  in  the  corridors.  One  " b"man  peered  in  persistently  and  we  were  in  the  mood  to  make  room  for  him  somehow  in  the  compartment.  Nobody  could  speak  his  language  and  he  couldn't  speak  ours,  but  the  wine  and  sausage  brought  instant,  surprised  communication;  we  talked  to  him  whether  or  not  he  could  follow  the  words,  and  he  shrugged  and  smiled  with  the  delighted  and  anguished  re-  sponses  of  one  struck  dumb  by  strang-  ers.  He  asserted  his  position  only  by  waving  away  the  slivovitz-that  was  what  foreigners  naturally  would  feel  obliged  to  drink.  And  when  we  forgot  about  him  while  we  argued  over  a  curious  map  the  state  hunting  orga-  nization  had  given  us-not  ethnic  or  geographic  but  showing  the  distri-  bution  of  water-  and  wildfowl  in  the  area  we  were  approaching-1I  caught  him  looking  us  over,  one  by  one,  try-  ing  to  read  the  lives  we  came  from,  un-  certain  from  unfamiliar  signs  whether  to  envy,  to  regard  with  cynicism,  or  to  be  amused.  He  fell  asleep.  And  I  studied  him.  No  one  from  the  hunting  lodge  had  come  to  meet  us  at  the  village  station  circled  on  the  map.  It  was  night.  Au-  tumn  cold.  We  stood  about  and  stamped  our  feet  in  the  adventure  of  it.  Therewas  no  stationmaster.  A  tele-  phone  booth,  but  whom  could  we  call  upon?  &quot;All-inclusive;  you  will  be  es-  corted  by  a  guide  and  interpreter  every-  where,&quot;  the  agent  had  said-so  we  had  not  thought  to  take  the  telephone  num-  ber  of  the  lodge.  There  was  a  wooden  shack  in  the  darkness,  blurry  with  thick  yellow  light  and  noise.  A  bar!  The  men  of  the  party  went  over  to  join  the  one  male  club  that  has  reciprocal  membership  everywhere;  the  women  were  uncertain  whether  they  would  be  acceptable-the  customs  of  each  coun-  try  have  to  be  observed:  in  some  you  can  bare  your  breasts,  in  others  you  are  indecent  if  wearing  trousers.  The  En-  glishman  came  back  and  forth  to  re-  port:  men  were  having  a  wild  time  in  the  shack,  they  must  be  celebrating  something,  they  were  some  kind  of  brotherhood,  black-haired  and  un-  shaven,  drunk.  The  rest  of  us  sat  on  our  baggage  in  the  mist  of  steam  left  by  the  train,  a  dim  caul  of  visibility  lit  by  the  glow  of  the  bar,  and  our  world  fell  away  sheer  from  the  edge  of  the  platform.  Nothing.  At  anun-  known  stage  of  a  journey  to  anun-   known  place,  suddenly  unimaginable.  An  old  car  splashed  into  the  station  yard.  The  lodge  manager  fell  out  on  his  feet  like  a  racing  driver.  He  wore  a  green  felt  hat  with  badges  and  feathers  fastened  round  the  band.  He  spoke  our  language,  yes.  It's  not  good  there,  he  said  when  the  men  of  our  party  came  out  of  the  bar.  You  watch  your  pocket.  Gypsies.  They  don't  work,  only  steal,  and  make  children  so  the  government  will  give  them  money  every  time.  HE  moon  on  its  back.  One  of  the  first  things  he  would  have  noticed  when  he  arrived  in  [REDACTED]  Town  was  that  the  moon  in  the  South-  ern  Hemisphere  lies  the  wrong  way  round.  The  sun  still  rises  in  [REDACTED]  and  sets  in  the  west,  but  the  one  other  certainty  to  be  counted  on-that  the  same  sky  that  covers  his  old  village  covers  the  whole  earth-is  gone.  What  greater  confirmation  of  how  far  away:  looking  up  on  the  first  night.  He  might  have  learned  a  few  words  on  the  ship.  Perhaps  he  was  met  at  the  port  by  someone  who  had  preceded  him  by  a  year  or  so.  He  was  put  on  a  train  that  travelled  for  two  days  through  vineyards  and  mountains  and  then  the  desert;  but  already  long  beforethe  ship  landed  he  must  have  been  too  hot  in  the  suit,  coming  south.  On  the  high  pla-  teau  he  arrived  at  the  gold  mines,  to  be  entrusted  to  a  relative.  The  relative  had  been  too  proud  to  explain  earlier  by  post  that  he  was  too  poor  to  take  the  boy  in,  but  the  wife  made  this  clear.  The  boy  took  the  watchmaking  tools  he  had  been  provided  with,  and  went  to  the  mines.  And  then?  He  waylaid  " b"white  miners,  and  replaced  balance  wheels  and  broken  watch  faces  while-  you-wait;  he  went  to  the  compounds  where  black  miners  had  proudly  ac-  quired  watches  as  the  manacles  of  their  new  slavery-to  shift-work.  In  this  country,  their  own,  they  were  migrants  from  their  homes,  like  him.  They  had  only  a  few  words  of  the  language,  like  him.  While  he  picked  up  English  he  also  picked  up  the  terse  jargon,  a  mix  of  English  and  their  languages,  that  the  miners  were  taught  so  that  work  orders  could  be  understood.  Femegalo:  &quot;Do  this,  do  it  like  this'&quot;-a  vocabulary  of  command.  So  straight  away  he  knew  that,  even  if  he  was  poor  and  alien,  at  least  he  was  white;  he  spoke  his  broken  phrases  from  the  rank  of  the  com-  manders  to  the  commanded:  the  first  indication  of  who  he  was  now.  And  the  black  miners'  watches  were  mostly  cheap  ones  not  worth  mending.  They  could  buy  a  new  one  for  the  price  he  would  have  to  ask  for  repairs;  he  bought  a  small  supply  of  Zobo  pocket  watches  and  hawked  them  at  the  com-  pounds.  So  it  was  because  of  the  blacks  that  he  became  a  businessman:  another  indication.  And  then?  Zobos  were  fat  metal  circles  with  a  stout  ring  at  thetop  and  a  loud  tick  tramping  out  time.  He  had  a  corru-  gated-tin-roofed  shop  with  his  watch-  maker's  bench  in  a  corner  and  watches,  clocks,  and  engagement  and  wedding  rings  for  sale.  The  white  miners  were  the  ones  whose  custom  it  was  to  mark  betrothals  with  adornments  bought  on  the  installment  plan.  They  promised  to  pay  so  much  a  month;  on  the  last  Friday,  when  they  had  their  wages,  they  came  to  him  from  the  hotel  bar  smelling  of  brandy.  He  taught  him-  self  to  keep  books,  and  carried  their  bad  debts  into  the  Depression  of  the  thirties.  He  was  married,  with  children,  by  then.  Perhaps  his  parents  had  offered  to  send  a  girl  out  for  him,  a  home  girl  with  whom  he  could  make  love  in  his  own  language  and  who  would  cook  according  to  the  dietary  rules.  That  was  the  custom  for  men  coming  from  those  villages;  he  surely  could  have  afforded  the  girl's  fare.  But  if  they  knew  he  had  left  the  tin  shack  behind  the  shop,  where  he  had  slept  when  first  he  became  a  businessman,  certainly  they  couldn't  imagine  him  living  in  the  local  hotel,  where  the  white  miners drank  and  he  ate  meat  cooked  by  blacks.  He  took  singing  lessons  and  was  inducted  into  the  Masonic  lodge.  Above  the  rolltop  desk  in  the  office  behind  his  new  shop,  with  its  sign  &quot;Warcumarker  Jewriuer  &amp;  Sr-  VERSMITH,&quot;  was  an  oval,  gilt-framed  studio  photograph  of  him  in  the  apron  of  his  Masonic  rank.  He  made  another  move;  he  success-  fully  courted  a  young  local  woman  whose  mother  tongue  was  English.  From  the  village  above  which  the  moon  turned  the  other  way,  there  came  as  a  wedding  gift  only  a  strip  of  gray  linen  covered  with  silk  embroidery  in  flowers  and  scrolls.  The  old  woman  who  sat  on  the  bench  must  have  done  the  needlework  long  before,  saved  it  for  the  anticipated  occasion,  because  by  the  time  of  the  distant  marriage  she  was  blind  (so  someone  wrote).  Injured  in  a  pogrom  ...  or  was  that  a  supposition,  an  exaggeration  of  woes  back  there,  used  by  those  who  had  left  all  behind  to  dramatize  their  escape?  More  likely  cataracts,  in  that  village  with  no  sur-  geon  available.  We,  her  granddaugh-  ters  in  the  Southern  Hemisphere,  dis-  covered  the  piece  of  embroidery  stuck  away  behind  lavender-scented  towels  and  pillowcases  in  our  mother's  linen  cupboard,  and  used  it  as  a  carpet  for  our  doll's  house.  The  English  wife  played  the  piano  and  we  children  sang  round  her,  but  he  didn't  sing.  Apparently  his  lessons  were  given  up;  sometimes  the  wife  laughed  with  friends  over  how  he  had  been  told  he  was  a  light  baritone,  and  at  Masonic  concerts  sang  ballads  with  words  by  Tennyson-as  if  he  knew  who  Tennyson  was!  By  the  time  I,  the  younger  daughter,  became  curious  about  the  photograph  looking  down  behind  its  bulge  of  convex  glass  in  the  office,  he  had  stopped  going  to  Masonic  meetings.  Once,  coming  home  from  such  an  occasion,  he  had  driven  into  the  garage  wall;  the  damage  was  re-  ferred  to  in  moments  of  family  tension,  again  and  again.  But  perhaps  he  gave  up  that  rank  because  when  he  got  into  bed  beside  her  in  the  dark  after  those  Masonic  gatherings  she  turned  away,  with  her  potent  disgust,  from  the  smell  of  whiskey  on  him.  If  the  phylacteries  and  skullcap  were  kept  somewhere,  we  children  never  saw  them.  He  went  fasting  to  the  syna-  gogue  on  the  Day  of  Atonement,  and  each  year,  on  the  anniversaries  of  the  deaths  in  that  village  of  the  old  people  whom  the  wife  and  children  had  never  seen,  he  went  again  to  light  a  candle.  Feeble  flame:  who  were  they?  In  the  quarrels  between  husband  and  wife,  she  derided  them  as  ignorant  and  dirty;  she  must  have  read  somewhere  something  that  served  as  a  taunt:  &quot;You  slept  like  animals  round  a  stove,  stinking  of  gar-  lic;  you  bathed  once  a  week.&quot;  We  children  knew  how  low  it  was  to  be  unwashed.  And,  whipped  into  anger,  " b"he  knew  the  lowest  category  of  all  in  her  country,  this  country:  You  speck  to  me  as  if  I  were  a  kaffir.  HE  silence  of  cold  countries  at  the  approach  of  winter.  On  an  island  of  mud,  where  a  village  track  parts  like  two  locks  of  wet  hair,  there  still  stands  a  war  memorial  crowned  with  the  emblem  of  an  occupying  em-  pire  that  has  been  lost  and  succeeded  by  others,  and  still  others.  Under  one  or  the  other  of  these  they  lived,  mending  shoes  and  watches,  eating  garlic,  and  sleeping  round  the  stove.  In  the  grave-  yard,  stones  lean  against  one  another  and  sink  to  different  levels  from  one  occupation  and  revolution  to  the  next  -the  Zobos  tick  them  off;  theold  woman  shelling  peas  on  the  bench  and  the  bearded  man  at  the  dockside  lie  in  mounds  that  are  all  like  cenotaphs  because  the  script  that  records  the  names  is  a  language  he  forgot  and  his  daughtersnever  knew.  A  burst  of  children  out  of  school  alight  like  pigeons  round  the  war  mon-  ument.  Unimaginable  to  them  that  they  cannot  be  understood  as  they  chat-  ter,  stare,  giggle  at  the  foreigners,  and  -the  bold  ones-question  us.  As  with  the  man  in  the  train,  from  thetone,  the  expression  on  the  faces,  and  the  curios-  ity,  their  meaning  is  clear:  Who  are  you!?  Where  do  you  come  from?  A  map  of  Africa  drawn  with  a  stick  in  the  mud.  Africa!  The  children  punch  each  other  and  jig  in  recognition.  'They  close  in.  One  of  them  tugs  at  the  gilt  ring  glinting  in  the  ear  of  a  little  girl,  dark  and  hairy-curly  as  a  poodle.  They  point:  gold.  Those  others  in  this  land  knew  about  gold,  long  ago;  for  the  poor  and  despised  there  is  always  the  idea  of  gold  somewhere  else.  That's  why  they  packed  him  off  when  he  was  thir-  teen  and-according  to  their  beliefs  -a  man.  T  four  in  the  afternoon  the  old  moon  bleeds  radiance  into  the  gray  sky.  In  the  wood,  a  thick  plumage  of  fallen  oak  leaves  is  laid  as  reveren-  tially  as  the  feathers  of  the  dead  pheas-  ants  that  swing  from  the  beaters'  belts.  The  beatersare  coming  across  the  great  fields  of  maize  in  the  first  light  of  the  moon.  The  guns  probe  its  halo.  Where  I  wait-apart,  out  of  the  way, hidden-I  hear  the  rustle  of  fear  among  creatures.  Their  feathers  swish  against  stalks  and  leaves.  The  clucking  to  gather  in  the  young,  the  spurting  squawks  of  terror  as  the  men  with  their  thrashing  sticks  drive  the  prey  racing  on,  rushing  this  way  and  that:  there's  no  way  where  there  are  not  men  and  sticks,  men  and  guns.  The  creatures  have  wings  but  dare  not  fly  and  reveal  themselves;  there  was  nowhere  to  run  from  the  village  to  the  fields  as  the  pursuers  came  on  and  on,the  kick  of  a  cossack's  mount  ready  to  strike  cring-  ing  heads,  the  thrust  of  a  bayonet  lift-  ing  a  man  by  the  heart  like  a  piece  of  meat  on  a  fork.  Death  advancing,  and  nowhere  to  go.  Blindness  coming  by  fire  or  shot,  and  no  way  out  to  see,  shelling  peas  by  touch.  Cracks  of  deto-  nation  and  a  wild  agony  of  flutter  all  around  me,  I  crouch  away  from  the  sound  and  sight-only  a  spectator,  only  a  spectator,  please!-but  the  cos-  sack's  hooves  rode  those  pleading  wretches  down.  A  bird  thuds  dead,  striking  my  shoulder  before  it  hits  the  soft  bed  of  leavesbeside  me.  SIX  leaves  from  my  father's  country.  When  I  began  to  know  him,  inhis  shop,  as  someone  distinct  from  a  lap  I  sat  on,  he  shouted  at  the  black  man  on  the  other  side  of  the  counter  who  swept  the  floor  and  ran  errands,  and  he  threw  the  man's  weekly  pay  grudgingly  at  him.  I  saw  there  was  someone  my  father  had  made  afraid  of  him.  A  child  understands  fear,  and  the  hurt  and  hate  it  brings.  I  gathered  the  leaves  for  their  pretty  autumn  stains,  not  out  of  any  sentiment.  This  village  where  we've  rented  the  state  hunting  lodge  is  not  my  father's  village.  I  don't  know  where,  here  in  his  country,  that  was;  I  know  only  the  name  of  the  port  where  he  left  it  behind.  I  didn't  ask  him  about  his  village.  He  never  told  me;  or  I  didn't  listen.  I  have  the  leaves  in  my  hand.  I  did  not  know  that  I  would  find,  here  in  the  wood,  the  beaters  advancing,  advancing  across  the  world."