 b"MY  girlfriend  is  trying  to  say  that  she  doesn't  care  if  he's  my  best  friend  from  work:  before  she  leaves  the  room,  when  he's  looking  the  other  way,  she  holds  up  her  index  fingers,  whichmeans  she  wants  him  out  of  here  by  eleven.  Denny  is  saying,  &quot;Maybe  I  should  have  looked  at  the  serving  lady  when  the  hostess,  Mrs.  Logan,  spoke,  or  at  Mr.Logan  when  their  guest  spoke.  But  when  someone's  speaking  to  you,  you  look  at  thet  person,  right?  Not  at  somebody  else  in  the  room.  Or  maybe  I  would  have  got  it  right  about  Gordon  and  Polly  if  I'd  looked  just  a  little  bit  over  everybody's  heads,  at  those  yellow  walls.  Or  at  anything-if  only  I  hadn't  kept  looking  at  the  person  speaking.  After  a  while,  when  it  got  darker  in  there,  they  wouldn't  have  noticed  even  if  I  was  looking  out  a  window  into  the  garden.  But&quot;  says  this  to  me  as  if  he's  not  sure-&quot;other  people  must  not  have  to  do  stuff  like  that.  They  must  be  able  to  look  at  the  person  they're  listening  to  and  think  at  the  same  time.&quot;  It's  hard  to  know  about  Denny.  He  takes  a  drive  up  the  [REDACTED]  to  some-  one's  house,  and  just  hes  to  understand  why  the  walls  of  one  room  are  different  from  the  others.  Now,  six  months  after  dinner  there,  he's  caught  up  in  think-  ing  about  something  that  happened,  and  why  he'd  got  it  wrong.  But  at  work  he  can  be  very  confident  and  dry.  At  an  auction  of  science  volumes  he  did  last  week,  he  told  thebidders  that  Goethe's  bookon  color  theory,  though  breath-  taking  to  look  at,  wasn't  scientifically  sound.  Then  he  paused  a  second  to  add  that,  of  course,  Goethe,  like  the  ency-  clopedist  Diderot,  was  a  novelist  on  the  side.  And,  just  when  I  was  sure  he  was  going  to  start  the  bidding,  he  added  that  even  way  back  in  the  early  nine-  teenth  century  Goethe  found  cause  to  complain  that  there  was  just  too  much  printed  matter  to  keep  up  with.  But  then  the  other  day,  when  I  showed  him  a  signed  copy  of  &quot;The  Meaning  of  Relativity,&quot;  Denny's  eyes  became  seri-  ous  and  sad,  and  he  said,  &quot;Einstein  was  the  kindest  man.&quot;  Like  the  guy  had  been  a  personal  friend  of  his,  and  he  missed  him.  Denny  probablygot  a  little  unnerved when  the  first  thing  Mrs.  Logan  asked  him  at  dinner  was  &quot;Ever  been  married,  Mr.  Dennis?&quot;  Denny  tells  me  about  that  and  then  says,  &quot;O.K.,  maybe  it's  just  a  casual  question.&quot;  But  I  know  he  takes  it  as  if  someone's  asking  him  if  he'd  ever  been  loved.  Or  been  happy.  Or  had  a  home.  &quot;I  mean,&quot;  says  Denny,  &quot;she  didn't  ask  me,  Are  you  married&quot;  I  mean,  that  I'm  not-and,  O.K.,  that  I've  never  been-does  it  just  show?&quot;  I  tell  Denny  not  to  worry  about  it,  that  he's  had  some  bad  breaks,  that  forty's  not  too  late  to  think  of  starting.  He  says,  &quot;Then  she  asked  me,  'Ever  thought  of  setting  up  afirm  of  your  own?&quot;  What  if  I'd  saidthat  I  wasn't  brave  enough?  After  all,  it  does  take  a  certain  amount  of  courage  to  buy  with  one's  own  money.  Courage  to  buy  and  courage  to  sell-I  mean,  maybe  the  real  courage  is  in  the  keeping,  before  you  sell.  But  no,  I  just  rattled  on  about  how  I  preferredthe  camaraderie  of  the  workplace.  The  generous  benefits.  The  profit-sharing  plan.  &quot;Not  brave  enough-I  did  say  it,&quot;  says  Denny,  &quot;but  to  the  first  question.  I  meant  I'd  never  been  in  a  situation  where  it  didn't  require  a  lot  of  courage  to  get  married.  And  then,  after  I  said  that,  I  looked  at  the  two  empty  chairs  across  from  me,  and,  as  ifit  were  part  of  my  answer,  I  asked  if  they  thought  we  ought  to  call  Gor-  don  and  Polly;  there  was,  after  all-and  I  re-  member  pausing  there,  as  if  I  might  be  being  forward-a  phone  in  their  guesthouse.  Perhaps  they'd  got  the  hour  wrong.  &quot;If  there  was  any  re-  sponse  to  that,  it  went  by  me,&quot;  says  Denny.  &quot;Be-  cause  Mrs.  Logan  just  says,  'A  fine  young  man  such  as  yourself.  Edith  here  ...'  and  she  looks  over  at  her  friend  Edith  at  the  far  end  of  the  ta-  ble,  'Edith  took  a  course  in  marriage  once,  didn't  you,  Edith?  Why  don't  you  tell  Mr.  Dennis  about  it&quot;  &quot;Then  Edith-I  don't  remember  her  last  name;  it'll  come  to  me-Edith  " b"says,  like  a  schoolgirl  who'd  been  waiting  her  turn  to  speak,  'I'd  been  standing  at  a  bus  stop  in  the  city,  and  I  picked  up  one  of  those  brochures  with  the  night-  course  offerings.  And,  leaf-  ing  through  it,  I  noted  a  class  called  How  to  Marry  a  Millionaire.  It  was  to  be  held  not  too  many  blocks  east  of  where  I  live,  and  for  just  one  evening.  Now,  Mr.  Dennis,  it's  a  bit  droll  that  I  would  have  an  in-  terest  in  such  a  course,  as  I'd  been  married  for  most  of  my  seventy-odd  years  to  a  millionaire,  and  been  the  daughter  of  one  before  that.  But  I  just  wanted  to  go-  and  here  Mrs.  Logan  inter-  rupts  her.  &quot;'To  observe,  says  Mrs.  Logan,  finishing  the  sentence  for  her,  proba-  bly  so  Edith  wouldn't  lower  everything  by  saying  'out  of  curiosity.&quot;  'It  was  a  class  for  women  only,&quot;  Edith  says,  'but  there  were  women  of  every  age  and  appearance  there,  I  might  add.  By  the  way,  Mr.  Dennis,  the  instructress  said  that  every  fourth  term  she  also  offered  the  course  to  men.  &quot;'Then  Mrs.  Logan  prods  her  on:  'And  what  did  you  take  from  the  class,  Edith?&quot;  Edith  gathers  herself  up  in  her  seat  and  says,  'Well,  it  all  seemed  to  come  down  to  this:  the  most  important  thing  about  marrying  a  millionaire  is  to  marry  him.'  Then  she  stops  for  a  moment,  as  if  waiting  for  a  cue  from  Mrs.  Logan.  'Andwhat  else  did  the  instructress  say,  Edith&quot;  Edith  starts  out  slowly.  'That,  if  you  wanted  to  carry  it  to  the  logical  extreme,  you  should  pick  a  very  old  millionaire.  Very  old,  and  not  very  well.  Your  honey-  moon  night  is  none  too  soon  for  Emer-  gency  Services  to  arrive.&quot;  &quot;Mrs.  Logan  looks  right  at  me.  'The  logical  extreme,&quot;  she  says.  And  then  she  smiles,  to  put  me  at  ease.  'Not  something  Gordon  and  Polly  would  understand.&quot;  She  nods  at  the  two  empty  chairs,  as  if  to  tell  me  that  she  was  not  ignoring  my  question  about  where  they  were.  'Both  of  them  so  young  and  so  good-looking.  And  even  before  mar-  riage  they  were-how  would  the  in-  structress  put  it,  Edith?&quot;  Edith  shifts  in  SknnAL-xna/W  her  seatto  prepare  her  delivery:  'Mil-  lion-heir  and  million-heiress.&quot;  'Right!  puts  in  Mrs.  Logan.  Both  of  them  started  laughing.  'And  none  of  us  had  need  of  a  course,  either,  did  we,  Edith?&quot;  And  then,  for  the  first  time,  she  looks  over  at  Mr.  Logan-not,  I  thought,  without  affection.  'Reelly,'  says  Edith  to  Mrs.  Logan,  'at  the  time  it  would  have  been  so  much  trouble  to  marry  down.&quot;  'Not  so  much  today,  but  still  some,  says  Mrs.  Logan.&quot;  Denny  takes  a  deep  breath.  &quot;The  serving  lady  had  come  into  remove  the  dinner  plates.If  she  or  the  cook,  who  was  holding  the  door  for  her,  had  found  anything  to  be  shocked  or  put  off  by  in  any  of  the  conversation,  I  couldn't  tell.  What  Mrs.  Logan  and  Edith  were  saying,&quot;  Denny  says  to  me,  &quot;I  wouldn't  have  said  in  front  of  them,  would  you  have?&quot;  &quot;I'm  sure  they're  used  to  it,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;Well,  in  the  dining  room,  anyway,  I  hardly  looked  at  the  servants,&quot;  says  Denny.  &quot;But  I  do  remember  looking  at  my  watch.  Eight-forty-five.  Dinner  had  been  planned  for  seven.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Logan  and  their  friend  Edith  and  I  had  waited  in  the  living  room  until  seven-thirty  before  we'd  come  in  to  sit  33     down.  Perhaps  Gordon  and  Polly  hadn't  heard  the  time  right,  I  thought.  Unlikeme,  they'd  been  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Logan's  before-maybe  dinner  was  customarily  at  eight.  And  maybe  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Logan  usually  didn't  seat  everybody  until  a  half  hour  after  that.  But  now  the  salad  course  was  being  served.  And  then  I  was  wonder-  ing  out  loud  if  we  should  turn  on  some  lights.  Again,  if  there  was  any  response  to  my  question  I  didn't  notice.  'Such  a  fine  summer  evening,&quot;  says  Mrs.  Lo-  gan,  looking  nowhere  in  particular.  'I  think  you  two,'  meaning  Mr.  Logan  and  me,  'have  been  very  wise  in  decid-  ing  to  leave  looking  at  those  dusty  books  till  morning.&quot;  &quot;  PEOPLE  often  do  as  much  damage  bringing  rare  books  in  to  us  as  has  been  done  in  five  hundred  years.  The  company  knows  what  they're  doing  when  they  send  us  out  to  get  them.  Denny's  always  available  to  make  the  overnight  trips  to  the  clients,  and  I  do  the  estates-up  and  back  on  Saturdays,  a  little  country  trip  with  my  girlfriend.  The  first  thing  I  noticed  about  most  of  those  estates  was  that  although  a  lot  of  the  furniture  was  missing,  and  paint-  " b"ings  had  obviously  been  taken  from  the  walls,  the  bookshelves  were  always  full,  never  any  empty  spaces.  Some  great  missed  opportunities  for  the  survivors.  And  some  of  those  books  have  been  there  for  generations-unread,  the  pages  uncut.  &quot;I  think  if  I  did  start  on  my  own,&quot;  says  Denny,  &quot;I'd  specialize.  Children's  books-you  know,  they  don't  have  to  be  so  old.  Anything  from  the  first  half  of  this  century,  if  it's  in  good  condition.  &quot;If  I  left,  you  think  the  boss  would  wish  me  the  best?  I  wish  almost  every-  one  the  best.  But  you've  got  to  keep  watching  what  people  do.  If  there's  not  much  doing,  then  you  have  to  try  and  go  by  what  they  say.  'The  first  thing  Polly  said  to  me  was  How  interesting!  That  was  when  Mr.  Logan,  whose  book  collection  I'd  come  up  to  inspect,  brought  me  in  and  intro-  duced  me  to  her  and  Gordon  and  left  me  with  them  for  a  bit.  I'd  just  come  back  to  the  main  house  after  unpacking  my  things.  'How  interesting,&quot;  she  said  when  she  found  out  why  I  was  there.  Of  course,  you  hear  that  a  lot,  espe-  cially  from  people  of  means,  who  are  very  interested  in  what  someone  might  do  out  of  necessity.  Still,  I  think  Polly's  interest  was  sincere.  I  remember  her  standing  behind  the  velvet  armchair  across  from  me,  where  her  husband  was  seated,  and  as  she  leaned  forward,  cheek  beside  his,  even  he  mostly  stopped  looking  at  his  newspaper  and  seemed  interested.  &quot;Polly  told  me  Gordon's  father  was  an  old  friend  of  Mr.  Logan's.  She  said  she  and  Gordon  often  visited  during  the  summer  months,  and  stayed  in  one  of  the  guesthouses  on  the  hill  above  the  main  house.  She  asked  me  which  one  I  was  staying  in.  First  one  on  the  path,  I  toldher.  'The  pink  one?  It's  lovely,&quot;  she  said.  'We  stayed  there  once.  Now  we  always  usethe  farth-  est  one,  over  the  crest.  Will  you  be  here  long?  I'd  love  to  learn  about  old  books.  Gordon  and  I  have  some  that  were  his  father's.&quot;  &quot;People  want  to  know,  isn't  that  right?&quot;  says  Denny  to  me,  as  if  I'd  understand  exactly  what  he  meant.  &quot;Don't  tell  the  boss,&quot;  he  says,  &quot;but  if  I  meet  people  I  feel  familiar  with  I  tell  them  to  forget  about  the  things  I  have  to  look  for  in  books.  I  take  them  aside  and  recommend  a  good  reprint.  I  was  just  about  to  say  that  to  Gordon  and  Polly  when  Mr.  Logan  came  back  and said  he  wanted  to  show  me  around  the  grounds.  'We're  having  dinner  at  sev-  en,'  he  told  them.  Polly  leaned  down  closer  to  Gordon,  who  lowered  his  paper.  They  said  to  us,  almost  in  unison,  'See  you  at  dinner  &quot;  SO  in  about  ten  minutes  my  girl-  friend  is  going  to  come  out  and  do  a  little  walk  around  the  room  with  her  index  fingers  flashing  upand  down  to  remind  me  that  she  and  time  really  exist.  I  think  you  have  to  be  flexible  with  friends  sometimes,  butshe  says,  How  often  do  we  go  over  to  Ais  place?  Still,  I  think  Denny  is,  inhis  own  way,  considerate.  Right  now,  he's  laying  out  magazines  all  over  the  coffee  table  to  protect  it  when  he  puts  his  feet  up.  In  the  long  view  of  things,  why  shouldn't  he  get  comfortable?  All  of  a  sudden  he  looks  around  the  living  room  and  glances  past  all  the  doors.  &quot;Yeah,&quot;  says  Denny.  &quot;All  white.     White,  or  off-white,  yeah.  And  that's  the  way  it  was  at  the  Logans'.  She  gave  me  a  tour  of  the  house,  and  I  saw  only  all-white  or  off-white  rooms,  except  for  one.  You  know,  I  don't  think  I  could  even  tell  you  exactly  where  the  place  was.  Somewhere  near  the  Put-  nam-  Westchester  county  line.  I  took  my  time  driving  up;  I  got  on  the  Pali-  sades  43616e616461way  so  I  could  drive  up  the  west  side  of  the  [REDACTED]  and  through  Harriman  State  [REDACTED],  where  I  crossed  back  to  this  side.  Somewhere  near  there.  &quot;O.K.,&quot;  he  goes  on.  &quot;I  did  finally  see  them  at  dinner.  After  a  while,  I  couldn't  even  imagine  that  anybody  was  going  to  sit  in  those  two  empty  chairs.  I  looked  past  them,  and  that's  when  I  first  began  to  notice  what  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Logan  had  done-something  I  thought  was  strange.  The  area  where  they  ate  breakfast  and  lunch,  which  was  just  off  the  kitchen  and  faced  south  and  east,  they'd  painted,  like  the  rest  of  the  house,  some  shade  of  white.  But  the  dining  room,  which  faced  south  and  west  and  caught  the  long,  slow  sunsets  that  are  warm  and  yellow  anyway,  they'd  painted  yellow.  But  then  I  thought,  Well,  zow  the  sunlight's  there,  because  it's  summer.  For  most  of  the  year,  though,  they'd  be  eating  din-  ner  by  artificial  light.  So  the  yellow  walls  would  add  warmth  then.  By  the  time  I'd  thought  of  that,  it  was  so  late  you  couldn't  tell  what  color  the  walls  were  anyway.  &quot;That's  when  I  heard  Polly's  voice  " b"through  the  screen  door.  'Should  we  light  some  can-  dles?&quot;  she  said.  'Here,  I'll  do  it,'  said  Gordon,  as  they  came  in,  and  I  saw  him  let  go  of  her  hand  to  reach  into  his  pocket  for  matches.  The  second  they  sat  down  beside  each  other,  they  made  a  nearly  simultaneous  move  to  hold  hands  again.  I  no-  ticed  a  slight  sheen  on  his  brow,  and  his  hair  wasn't  as  tidy  as  before.  Hers  was  all  tousled,  and  her  face  flushed-less  like  porcelain  than  I'd  remembered  it  from  that  afternoon.  &quot;The  serving  lady  brought  in  some  plates  of  food  for  them,  as  if  their  being  late  were  a  regular  occurrence.  In  the  next  hour  or  so,  Gordon  and  Polly  often  held  hands,  but  never  looked  into  each  oth-  er's  eyes  or  spoke  to  each  other,  as  if  to  do  so  would  be  to  flaunt  something.  Af-  ter  dinner,  again  hand  in  hand,  they  walked  me  out  through  the  garden  and  the  tangle  of  trees,  then  along  the  path  thatled  to  the  guesthouses.  At  mine,  they'd  said,  'See  you  at  breakfast!'  -again  almost  in  unison.  Then  they  turned  to  walk  up  over  the  hill.  But,&quot;  says  Denny,  &quot;I  didn't  see  them  at  breakfast.  &quot;Nice  life-I  remember  thinking  that  as  I  tried  to  get  to  sleep  that  night.  And  I  didn't  mean  the  money.  I  had  sat  there  all  evening  worrying  about  Gordon  and  Polly  missing  dinner,  be-  cause  I  forgot-maybe  I  don't  even  know-that  two  people  can  find  such  pleasure  in  each  other  that  they  forget  about  time.  I  didn't  sleep  well  that  night  and  was  kidding  myself  if  I  thought  it  was  just  the  strange  bed.  Because  I  don't  think  I've  really  slept  very  well  since-and  it's  been  six  months.  Do  you  believe  something  like  that  could  have  such  a  long-lasting  effect?&quot;  Denny  looks  at  me,  but  I  don't  think  he  wants  an  answer.  &quot;So  I  had  breakfast  with  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Logan  and  Edith  the  next  day,  chose  among  the  books,  got  the  con-  tracts  signed,  and  left  just  before  noon.  Gordon  and  Polly  didn't  appear,  but  by  then  I  was  making  allowances  for  them.  I  drove  back  on  this  side  of  the  [REDACTED].  I  remember  stopping  to  pick  up  a  few  groceries-at  the  unhistoric  Grand  Union  in  historic  Dobbs  Ferry  -and  still  I  got  back  to  the  city  by  two.  Anyway,  I  didn't  see  any  of  those  people  again  until  today.  &quot;'I  know  you,  don't  I?&quot;  I  hear  a  woman's  voice  saying.  I  was  on  my  way  to  the  Surrey,  on  Seventy-sixth,  to  pick  up  a  book  from  a  client.  'I  know  you,'  I  hear,  and  then  I  see  her,  framed  by  a  shop  entrance  on  Madison,  but  I  don't  place  her  right  away.  I'd  only  seen  her  with  Gordon.  &quot;  Now  I  remember,&quot;  she  said.  'You  came  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Logan's&quot;  'Of  course,'  I  said.  'Polly.  And  Gordon,  how's  Gordon?&quot;  'No  more  Gordon  ..  .'  said  Polly,  with,  I  thought,  a  serious  look.  I  started  to  say,  'He's  not  ..  .'  and  caught  myself.  'Not...  said  Polly,  finishing  my  sentence,  (married  to  me  anymore.  Is  that  what  you're  trying  to  say?  He's  not  married  to  me,  and  I'm  not  married  to  him.  We're  not  married  anymore.''  But  I  just  kept  looking  at  her  as  if  I  didn't  understand.  'We're  divorced,&quot;  Polly  said.  'Divorce-ever  And  then  she  asked  for  my  card  in  case  she  ever  came  across  any  books  I  might  be  interested  in.  &quot;Well,&quot;  Denny  says  to  me,  &quot;now  I  have  to  revise  my  memory  of  the  whole  evening,  and  maybe  everything  since.  But  that  doesn't  mean  I'll  sleep  any  better  tonight.&quot;  IRLFRIEND  aside,  I  want  to  go  to  bed.  And  it's  not  that  I'm  tired  of  Denny-I'm  just  tired.  I  decide  to  try  wrapping  it  up  on  a  light  note.  &quot;Denny,&quot;  I  say  to  him.  &quot;So  you're  not  a  specialist  in  everything.  But  you  know  Polly  has  atleast  a  million  dol-  lars.  And  now  she's  not  married.  And  she's  got  your  card.  ..  .&quot;  But  then  I  see  Denny's  not  laughing  or  even  listening  to  me.  He's  just  sitting  there  with  his  feet  up  on  the  coffee  table,  and  I  guess  correctly  that  he's  still  running  a  six-month-old  movie  of  that  evening  back  and  forth  inhis  mind,  trying  to  figure  out  if  there  was  something  he  hadn't  paid  enough  at-  tention  to.  &quot;It  wes  getting  dark,&quot;  he  says  after  a  while,  &quot;in  that  yellow  dining  room.&quot; "