 b"In  January,  1942,  ...  the  Hungarian  commander  in  occupied  [REDACTED]  ...  went  on  a  rampage  and  shot  several  thousand  Jews  and  Serbs  in  the  town  of  Novi  Sad.-'&quot;The  Destruction  of  the  European  Jews,&quot;  by  Raul  Hilberg.  S.  sees  himself  with  trembling  E  hands  gathering  up  his  papers  \xc2\xae  from  the  folding  table  at  seat  No.  126  by  the  window  of  the  first-  class  railway  carriage,  stuffing  them  into  his  briefcase  along  with  the  bottled  beer  and  smoked-herring  sandwiches  wrapped  in  checkered  writing  paper,  then  in  newspaper,  put  there  by  his  sister  [REDACTED],  and  fiddling  with  the  brass  lock  in  an  unsuccessful  attempt  to  close  it.  Who  was  standing  beside  him  at  that  moment?  A  young  blond  conductor,  who  was  aiming  his  nickel-plated  ticket  punch  like  a  revolver  at  the  yellow  star  on  E.S.'s  chest.  Who,  apart  from  himself  and  the  conductor,  watched  him  trying  (and  seeing  himself  trying)  to  closehis  briefcase?  A  lady  in  black  hat  and  veil  (aged  about  thirty)  clutching  a  sleeping  girl  child  as  though  some  appalling,  blood-  thirsty  crime  were  about  to  be  commit-  ted  in  this  first-class  compartment  of  an  express  train,  the  kind  of  thing  that  happens  in  novels;  a  young  man  with  black  pomaded  hair  (about  twenty-  five),  a  student  or  spy,  who  was  trying  from  behind  an  illustrated  magazine  to  catch  a  glimpse  of  white  flesh  under  the  black  skirt  of  the  lady  inblack;  a  thickset  gentleman  (aged  about  fifty),  probably  a  black  marketeer,  with  a  watch  on  a  gold  chain,  who  at  that  moment  was  studying  his  gold  watch  patiently  and  at  length,  as  though  to  appraise  its  value;  an  old  lady  (about  sixty)  holding  a  prayer  book  encrusted  with  mother-of-pearl;  and  a  dozing  officer  (about  thirty)  with  jangling  spurs.  To  which  of  the  above-mentioned  per-  sons  did  E.S.  pay  the  most  attention?  To  the  widow  with  the  white  thighs.  How  had  she  become  a  widow?  Her  husband  was  killed  somewhere  on  theeasternfront  while  trying  to  relieve  himself.  What  was  the  wording  of  the  official  report  of  her  husband's  death,  as  imagined  by  E.S.?  You  are  hereby  notified  that  your  spouse,  Reserve  Captain  First  Class  in  the  glorious  First  Hungarian  Regi-  ment  of  Hussars,  has  heroically  laid  down  his  life  for  the  Fatherland  in  performance  of  his  sacred  duty.  How  did  she  take  this  news?  She  immediately  consulted  a  fashion  magazine  and  chose  a  black  dress  in  the  latest  style  (winter  1941-42),  with  broad  shoulders,  gathered  waist,  low  neckline,  medium  (calf)  length  hem;  a  black  petticoat  trimmed  with  black  lace;  and,  in  all  likelihood,  black  pan-  ties  edged  with  lace;  a  hat  with  hatpin;  a  black  veil;  and  black  elbow-length  gloves.  What  did  the  curious  observer  no-  tice?  That  the  lady  in  black  had  applied  a  small  amount  of  rouge  to  her  pale  face.  What  provoked  the  glintin  the  eyes  of  the  lady  with  the  white  thighs?  Was  it  tears,  was  it  grief?  The  glint  in  her  eyes  was  provoked  by  the  prospect  of  an  adventure,  per-  haps  not  ending  in  marriage  with  a  rich  man  but  leading  at  least  to  a  series  of  affairs  with  young  lovers,  whom  she  would  initiate  into  the  arts  of  love  free  of  charge,  to  their  satisfaction  and  her  own.  Whom  did  E.S.  suspect  of  being  the first  possible  lover  of  the  lady  in  black,  hence  his  first  potential  rival?  The  young  man  with  the  pomaded  hair,  peering  out  from  behind  his  il-  lustrated  magazine  and  evincing  a  keen  interest  in  her  (black)  silk  stock-  ings.  What  thoughts  passed  through  E.S.'s  head  as  he  was  leaving  the  first-  class  compartment?  (Syncope.)  I'm  awf'ly  neryous.  Scrumptious  body  of  a  female.  Elan  vital.  Alcohol,  alcohol!  [REDACTED]  cheese  and  [REDACTED]  gin.  Now  this  blockhead'll  be  free  to  goose  the  you-know.  Widow  of  the  white  thighs.  She  probably  caught  the  meaning  of  my  bow.  Wow,  that  smile.  Lace,  black  lace  .  .  .  G'bye,  g'bye  for-  ever,  fair  lady!  What  did  E.S.  do  before  leaving  the  compartment?  He  cast  a  quick  glance  out  the  win-  dow.  What  did  he  see?  An  endless  snow-covered  plain,  black  rectangular  fields  emerging  from  the  snow,  and  a  bare,  knotted  tree  with  shivering  black  crows  in  it.  What  did  he  notice  upon  entering  the  second-class  compartment?  At  first,  smells.  What  kind?  Dirty  feet,  wet  poultry,  military  overcoats,  wet  leather,  wet  cloth,  soaked  shoes,  onions,  tobacco,  intesti-  nal  vapors.  What  kind  of  peopledid  he  see?  Soldiers,  peasants,  clerks,  foresters,  railroad  workers,  shopkeepers,  black  marketeers.  What  objects?  Uniforms,  wooden  trunks,  wicker  baskets,  guns,  bayonets  (sheathed),    " b"army  boots,  puttees,  straps,  poultry,  cards,  knives.  What  colors?  Dirty  gray,  olive  green,  duck-shit  green,  screaming  red,  dirty  white,  rust  brown,  steel  gray.  What  showed  him  that  his  arrival  had  not  gone  unnoticed?  A  peasant's  curved  knife  stopping  halfway  between  a  chunk  of  paprika  bacon  and  the  peasant's  greasy  mus-  tache.  Who  eyed  him  with  extreme  curios-  ity?  A  goose,  whose  long  neck  protruded  from  its  basket,  and  who,  inclining  its  head  now  to  one  side,  now  to  the  other,  gazed  at  him  out  of  its  red  eyes.  What  did  E.S.  gape  at  no  sooner  than  he  had  sat  down?  An  enormous  plaster  foot,  dangling  from  the  wooden  baggage  rack  some  eight  to  ten  centimetres  from  his  nose.  On  it  were  inked:  nymphs,  female  and  male  sex  organs,  swastikas  and  arrow  crosses,  a  heart  pierced  with  an  arrow,  and,  below  it,  the  names  of  the  owner's  girlfriends.  List  the  names.  Marica,  Anna,  Fanika,  [REDACTED],  Dor-  otea,  Roszika,  Gretch-  en,  Juliska,  Pandora,  Tonka,  Lili,  Lulu,  Haj-  nalka,  Milena,  Grazia,  Melanie,  Piroska,  Mar-  gita,  Katia,  Anita,  Lana,  Helena,  Romi,  Ingrid,  Cora,  Bella,  Erzs\xc3\xa9bet,  Tatyana.  What  didthe  trav-  eller  seeas  the  train  pulled  into  the  Novi  Sad  station?  Guard  post  No.  2,  a  repair  shop,  piles  of  coal,  a  locomotive  hangar  with  turnta-  ble,  a  water  pump,  a  storage  shed,  adminis-  tration  buildings,  the  yellowish-gray  sta-  tion  building,  baskets  of  flowers,  the  station  restaurant.  Was  any  locomotive  taking  on  water  while  the  train  was  pulling  in?  No,  but  one  must  have  done  so  a  few  minutes  before,  be-  cause  water  was  still dripping  from  the  nozzle,  forming  a  thin  layer  of  ice  on  the  straw  that  cov-  ered  the  cast-iron  casing  of  the  pump.  What  did  this  remind  the  traveller  of?  It  made  him  think-not  without  sadness-of  the  cruel,  gloomy  winter  and  the  unattainable  remoteness  of  the  beautiful,  blessed  summertime.  In  what  verses  did  he  express  this?  Gloomy,  Madame,  beyond  measure  Is  the  present  time  of  year.  To  whom  were  these  lines  ad-  dressed?  Undoubtedly,  to  the  widow  of  the  white  thighs,  whose  sturdy  white  legs  (encased  in  silk  stockings)  were  at  that  moment  descending  from  the  decrepit  running  board  of  the  first-class  car-  riage  hardly  a  step  away  from  him.  Who  had  come  to  meet  the  widow  of  the  white  thighs?  Contrary  to  E.S.'s  malicious  predic-  tion,  the  widow  was  met  by  an  old  lady,  also  in  mourning.  Squeezing  the  child  between  them,  the  two  women  fell  si-  lently  into  each  other's  arms.  Who  had  come  to  meet  E.S.?  No  one  had  been  informed  of  his  arrival.  Did  he  catch  sight  of  a  soldier  with a  plaster  foot  among  the  passengers?  It  seemed  to  him  for  a  moment  that  a  plaster  foot  was  hobbling  along  among  the  people  hurrying  toward  the  exit.  Did  our  traveller  stop  at  the  station  restaurant?  No,  because  looking  out  of  the  train  window  he  had  seen  cock  feathers  flut-  tering  ominously  on  the  black  hats  of  policemen,  and  the  dull  sheen  of  their  mounted  bayonets.  He  therefore  thought  it  wise  to  remove  himself  with  all  possible  haste  from  the  dangerous  station  area,  where  he  caught  sight  of,  in  addition  to  the  police,  an  armed  and  helmeted  military  patrol  and  several  civilians  whom  he  easily  recognized  as  secret  agents.  What  enabled  him  to  recognize  them?  His  intuition  and  experience.  Also  their  assumed  air  of  innocence.  How  were  these  agents  dressed?  They  were  wearing  long  winter  coats  of  mouse-gray  gabardine,  broad-  brimmed  hats,  black  earmuffs,  and  sturdy  black  shoes  with  double  soles.  Did  they  ask  forhis  papers?  At  the  station  exit  he  had  to  stand  in  line  with  the  other  new  arrivals  and  show  the  agents  his  papers.  Did  theygive  him  any  trouble?  One  of  the  agents  looked  at  him,  com-  pared  his  face  with  the  photograph  on  his  identity  card,  and  then  returned  it  without  a  word.  Did  the  agent  check  his  railroad  pass?  No,  though  E.S.  held  it  out,  wanting  to  show  how  exalted  a  position  he  had  oc-  cupied  before  being  pensioned,  and  con-  fident  that  the  agent  would  be  as  much  im-  pressed  as  the  trainmen  had  been.  If  the  agents  had  chanced  to  look  into  his  briefcase,  what  would  they  have    \xef\xac\x82ay  Canasta     Doge  and  Mother  Mature  found?  Three  smoked-her-  ring  sandwiches  wrapped  first  in  check-     " b"ered  writing  paper,  then  in  greasy  news-  paper;  four  hard-boiled  eggs,  also  wrapped  in  newspaper;  an  empty  bottle  of  Ormai-brand  beer;  two  Kaiser  shirts,  one  white,  one  ochre;  four  celluloid  collars;  four  Breiner  pastel-  colored  ties,  one  black  mohair  tie  with  a  Rapayi\xc3\xa9  label;  a  sheet  of  checkered  paper  (29.3  x  20.8  cm.),  most  of  it  covered  with  pencil  writing;  a  greasy  copy  of  the  1941  issue  of  Selection  magazine,  putout  by  the  Bata  publishing  company;  two  pairs  of  gray  socks,  darned  in  several  colors;  a  checked  linen  hand-  kerchief,  unused;  an  empty  bottle  with  a  patent  cap;  two  soft  packs  of  twenty-five  Symphonia  cigarettes;  a  faded  pink  bath  towel,  rumpled  and  still  damp;  a  pair  of  bluelinen  Tivar  pajamas,  size  39;  a  usedcake  of  household  soap  in  a  cellu-  loid  holder;  a  brass  razor;  two  Tabula  Rasa-brand  blades;  a  grubby  shaving  brush;  a  cork  smelling  of  wine;  a  tin  shirt-button.  Once  outside  the  station,  where  did  the  traveller  go?  He  rushed  to  the  cabstand,  for  there  were  only  two  cabs  left.  The  third,  looking  like  a  huge  black  gondola,  its  side  lamp  lighted,  had  just  sailed  off,  carrying  away  from  him,  perhaps  for-  ever,  hidden  beneath  its  black  leather  roof,  the  widow  of  the  white  thighs,  the  Madonna  of  the  Sleeping  Cars,  the  Dark  Lady  of  Shakespeare's  sonnets,  the  source  and  object  ofhis  brief  rever-  ies,  to  whom  he  had  inwardly  ad-  dressed  two  orthree  lines  of  verse  and  to  whom,  at  the  moment  when  she  climbed  into  her  cab,  he  gallantly  lifted  his  hat-a  gesture  that  she  failed  to,  or  pretended  not  to,  notice.  Where  were  the  cabs  standing?  To  the  left  of  the  station  exit,  in  a  small  square  bordered  on  one  side  by  a  wall  and  on  the  other  by  an  iron  bar  that  supported  the  porters'  hand  trucks.  In  a  square  paved  with  neither  mac-  adam  nor  asphalt  but  with  big  slabs  of  stone,  on  which  horses'  hooves  struck  sparks,  and  horses'  urine  splashed,  foaming  like  beer,  melting  the  freshly  fallen  snow,  filling  the  cracks  between  slabs,  and  at  lengthdraining  off  into  a  gutter  that  led  to  a  rectangular  sewer  opening.  What  feelings  were  at  war  within  him  as  his  cab  drove  off?  Satisfaction,  relief,  anxiety.  Satisfaction?  Because  in  the  cab  he  was  again  free  to  surrender  to  sweet  dreams  of  another  meeting  with  a  female  person,  possibly  the  same  lady.  Also  because  cabs,  like  first-class  compartments  in  trains,  were  his  natural  ambience,  and  he  felt  very  much  at  home  in  this  cab.  Relief?  Because  thebusiness  with  his  papers  had  gone  off  without  a  hitch,  which  proved  that  his  \xc3\xa9lan  vital  and  intuition  had  not  yet  forsaken  him.  Anxiety?  Because  both  his  intuition  and  his  experience  told  him  that  his  next  step  might  be  the  exact  opposite  of  the  last,  since  human  life  was  governed  by  the  principle  of  alternation-a  crest  was  followed  by  a  trough,  success  by  fail-  ure,  ascent  by  descent-yet  man,  de-  spite  his  empirical  knowledge,  is  still  not  capable  of  plotting  the  course  of  events,  of  computing  the  length  of  the  wave,  for  if  he  were  he  would  be  able  to  forecast  events  down  to  the  slightest  detail.  What  happened  along  the  way?  Lulled  by  the  clatter  of  the  horses'  hooves,  he  dozed  off  for  a  moment.  What  did  he  dream?  He  was  swimming  in  deep  water,  in  total  darkness,  but  throughout  his  dream  he  knew  for  sure  that  he  was  saved,  like  Noah,  and  that  all  those  who  had  been  with  him  only  a  short  time  before  had  been  drowned,  that  he  alone  had  survived  the  catastrophe.  And  in  his  dream  this  knowledge  filled  him  with  a  vague  pride,  for  he  owed  his  salvation  not  only  to  God's  mercy  but  also  to  his  own  merit,  his  ability  to  cope  with  the  difficult  situations  of  life.  When  did  he  wake  up?  At  the  moment  when  the  timbers  of  his  dream  ship,  his  ark,  shuddered  as  it     " b"But  he  was  not  able  to  look  at  the  new  continent,  for  the  cab  had  turned  onto  the  paving  stones  of  German  Street  (now  Bem  Street).  How  much  did  he  tip  the  driver?  The  driver  asked  for  three  pengo  and  twenty  filler,  but  E.S.  rounded  it  out  to  four  pengo,  because  he  connected  his  miraculous  rescue  (in  his  dream)  with  his  fortunate  arrival  (in  reality)at  his  first  destination.  What  decision  did  he  arrive  at  out-  side  No.  21  Bem  (formerly  German)  Street?  He  suddenly  changed  his  mind  and  told  the  driver  to  wait  for  him,  saying  he  would  be  right  back.  What  made  him  change  his  mind  in  this  way?  He  probably  decided  against  calling  on  his  landlady  (Mrs.  M\xc3\xa9szaros)  be-  cause  his  train  had  been  delayed  and  he  realized  that  it  was  too  late  for  a  visit.  What  had  he  wanted  to  do  on  Ger-  man  (Bem)  Street?  His  intention  had  been  to  pay  his  debts  (two  months'  rent)  and  to  per-  suade  his  landlady  to  keep  his  belong-  ings  until  the  day  after  tomorrow,  when  he  would  be  moving  out  for  good.  Did  he  nevertheless  alight  from  the  cab-ship?  After  turning  up  his  coat  collar  be-  cause  of  the  wind,  he  let  himself  fall  with  all  his  weight  on  the  squeaky  running  board,  then  went  to  the  win-  dow  of  his  former  lodging.  But  since  blue  wrapping  paper  had  been  pasted  over  it  on  the  inside,  he  was  not  able  to  see  athing,  not  even  whether  his  be-  longings  were  still  inside.  How  long  did  he  stay  at  the  window!?  A  minute  or  two.  Then  he  went  quickly  back  to  the  cab  and  drove  to  8  Station  Street.  How  did  Mr.  Gavanski  receive  him?  For  a  while  Mr.  Gavanski  watched  him  in  silence  through  the  peephole,  as  though  unable  to  believe  his  eyes.  Then,  breathing  asthmatically,  he  put  on  his  dressing  gown.  What  did  the  unexpected  guest  and  his  host  do  then?  After  cordially  shaking  hands  and  exchanging  a  few  friendly  words  in  the  hallway,they  hastened,  at  the  guest's  suggestion,  to  listen  to  the  eight-  o'clock  (Greenwich  time)  news.  What  did  the  guest  think  about  while,  warmed  by  a  glass  of  Traminac, he  developed  his  impressive  Dutch  de-  fense  (1  Nf3  f5  2  g3  Nf6  etc.)?  He  recalled  how  (in  1937)he  and  his  brother,  on  meeting  after  asepara-  tionof  almost  twenty  years,  had,  by  the  end  of  ten  minutes,  exhausted  every  topic  of  conversation,  how  they  had  then  sat  silent  for  a  long  while,  and  finally  resorted  to  the  chessboard.  What  didthe  host  complain  about  to  the  guest  and  the  guest  to  the  host?  The  host  complained  ofhis  daugh-  ter  who  was  planning  to  marry  an  adventurer,  of  his  more  and  more  pain-  ful  gastritis,  of  pains  in  the  back,  asthma,  increasing  nearsightedness,  toothache,  insomnia  (which  he  com-  batted  with  liquor  or,  when  none  was  available,  with  aspirin),  of  baldness,  loss  of  virility,  failing  memory,  claus-  trophobia,  cancerophobia,  gluttony,  and  an  infantile  craving  for  sweets.  The  guest  observed  that  he  shared  most  of  the  host's  ailments  (pains  in  the  back,  increasing  nearsightedness,  in-  somnia,  which  he  found  no  way  of  relieving),  and  added  the  following:  fear  of  thenight,  fear  of  the  morrow,  fear  of  persons  in  uniform,  fearof  old  age  and  impotence,  fearof  dogs  (cyno-  phobia),  fearof  God,  fear  of  death,  and  fear  of  the  Devil.  Did  the  guest  conceal  anything  from  the  host?  In  consideration  of  the  host's  well-   known  tolerance  in  matters  of  reli-  gion,  he  concealed  the  fact  that  he  had  been  put  out  of  the  first-class  com-  partment;  he  also  neglected  to  mention  his  meeting  in  the  train  with  a  lady,  probably  a  war  widow,  who  had  been  sitting  across  from  him  until  he  was  asked  to  leave  the  first-class  com-  partment,  and  apatch  of  whose  firm  white  flesh  he  had  managed  to  glimpse  above  her  black  silk  stockings,  to  whom  he  had  later  addressed  two  or  three  lines  of  verse,  and  whom,  when  their  paths  crossed  at  the  station,  he  had  greeted  with  an  eloquent  gesture,  im-  possible  to  misinterpret:  the  lifting  of  his  hat.  Did  the  host  conceal  anything  from  his  guest?  He  concealed  the  fact  that,  though  bearing  the  typically  Hungarian  name  of  Fekete,  the  adventurer,  a  travelling  salesman  by  profession,  who  was  run-  ning  after  his  daughter,  was  actually  the  son  of  a  certain  Rachel.  What  acquaintances  had  the  two  men  in  common!?  Mr.  Dragutin  Floriani,  court  clerk,  who  in  a  simultaneous  chess  display  against  four  opponents  (in  1924)  had  beaten  the  celebrated  Otto  Titusz  Bliathy,  of  Budapest;  Mr.  Richard  Engel,  merchant  and  sufferer  from  claustrophobia,  who  had  thrown  him-  self  under  the  wheels  of  an  express  train  in  1938,  leaving  behind  a  widow  and  two  daughters;  Mr.  Tihomir  Pe-  trovic,  an  official  at  the  Finance  Minis-  try,  who  in  1920  or  thereabouts  had  returned  from  [REDACTED]  with  luxuriant  black  hair,  claiming  that  a  hormone  treatment  had  restored  not  only  his  hair  but  his  virility  as  well;  Mr.  Adri-     " b"an  Feh\xc3\xa9r,  known  as  Fedya,  whose  in-  tolerable  headaches  had  led  him  to  hang  himself  three  years  before;  Dr.  Maxim  Freud,  surgeon,  who  had  been  shot  on  January  24,  1942,  and  whose  brain,  blown  out  ofhis  skull,  had  lain  all  day  in  the  wet  snow  on  the  corner  of  Mileti\xc2\xa2  Street  and  Greek  School  Street;  one  Sandor  (surname  unknown),  who  was  able  to  drink  three  litres  of  red  wine  at  one  gulp;  Mr.  Jovan  Gondja,  gravedigger,  who  was  murdered  in  the  cemetery  along  with  hischild;  Helmar  B\xc3\xa9la,  the  town  knacker,  with  whom  the  two  friends  had  takena  drink  now  and  then  at  Weinhebbel's,  by  Catholic  Gate,  and  who  had  recently  sawed  a  woman  in  two  before  throwing  her  into  the  Danube;  A.  Ziegler,  merchant,  who  had  suffered  a  paralytic  stroke;  Mr.  B\xc3\xa9la  Sternberg,  railroad  inspector,  who  in  December  of  1941  had  thrown  himself  under  a  freight  train  at  the  entrance  to  a  tunnel,  explaining  in  his  farewell  letter  that  he  had  been  driven  to  this  step  by  the  &quot;general  chaos&quot;;  Mr.  Miksa  Kohn,  wholesaler,  who  had  been  shot  along  with  his  family  (wife  and  three  children);  Mr.  Zarko  Uzelac,  baker,  whose  mustache  and  ears  had  been  cut  off,  but  who  had  survived;  Mr.  Paja  Schwarz,  known  as  Herz  Schwarz,  whose  skull  had  been  split  with  an  axe  and  who  had  then  been  shoved  under  the  ice  in  the  Dan-  ube;  Mrs.  Konig,  teacher,  whom  Hun-  garian  soldiers  had  first  raped,  then  bayonetted;  Mr.  Scheinberger,  known  as  Sanyi,  who  in  a  fit  of  madness  had  shot  himself  in  the  mouth  with  a  hunt-  ing  rifle;  Mr.  Djordje  Stankovi\xc2\xa2,  ty-  pographer,  who  had  disappeared  mys-  teriously  a  year  before,  after  going  out  to  buy  beer  at  Ziegler's  grocery  store;  Mr.  Deszo  Guttmann,  engineer,  who  had  pulled  the  emergency  brake  on  the  Novi  Sad-Budapest  express  threeyears  before,  on  thepretextthat  the  wind  had  carried  away  his  silk  handkerchief,a  treasured  memento;  Mrs.  Fischer,  a  widow,  who  from  sheer  terror  had  contracted  diabetes  and  acute  insomnia;  Mr.  Anton  Buarov,  tax  collector,  who  for  unknown  reasons  had  ended  up  in  the  insane  asylum;  Mr.  Gyula  Berecz,  notary,  who  had  been  married  five  times,  four  of  them  to  widows;  Mr.  Aladir  Sichermann,  clerk,  who  had  jumped  into  a  well  when  they  came  to  take  him  to  his  wedding;  Marko  Kapamad#ija,  who  had  been  killed  in  his  home,  along  with  six  members  of his  family,  while  working  on  a  home-  made  bomb;  Mr.  Zarko  Blagoti\xc2\xa2,  phy-  sician,  who  had  jumped  out  of  the  prison  window  while  awaiting  trial;  Mr.  Josip  Kosti\xc2\xa2,  railroad  worker,  who  wrote  decasyllabic  poems  about  the  im-  pending  destruction  of  the  world;  Mr.  Adolf  Singer,  physician,  whose  legs  had  been  amputated  in  prison  without  anesthetic;  Mr.  Marton  Boszorm\xc3\xa9nyi,  who  had  shot  himself  in  the  head  with  a  revolver;  Mr.  Arpad  Kertel,  lawyer,  who  had  jumped  from  a  burning  barge  in  a  convoy  and  drowned  in  the  Begej;  Mr.  Bulat,  engineer  and  prestidigita-  tor,  who  instead  of  showing  a  pass  at  the  entrance  to  the  station  had  pro-  duced  his  third-grade  report  card,  the  only  document  he  had  been  able  to  find  after  his  home  was  ransacked,  and  who,  thanks  to  his  psychological  acumen,  had  managed  on  the  strength  of  this  third-grade  report  to  reach  [REDACTED],  and  had  notified  his  parents  in  Novi  Sad  of  his  arrival;  Mr.  Dezso  Balint,  judge,  who  was  growing  breasts  in  consequence  of  some  hor-  monal  disorder;  Mr.  Fulop  Uhlmann,  optician,  who,  supposing  himself  to  be  a  mad  dog,  had  recently  left  his  family  and  gone  to  live  in  an  abandoned  ken-  nel;  Mr.  Adim  Mandi,  who  had  cut  open  his  abdomen  with  his  sabre  in  an  attempt  to  commit  hara-kiri,  but  had  failed  and  died  of  an  infection;  Mr.  Ivan  Popov,  caf\xc3\xa9  owner,  whose  wife  in  a  fit  of  madness  had  served  him  an  unplucked  chicken,  from  which  she  had  removed  only  the  eyes,  with  a  knitting  needle,  and  who  had  been  so  terrified  that  he  had  tried  toeat  the  chicken,  feathers  and  all,  and  choked  to  death;  Mr.  Dezso  Bleier,  who  had  lost  the  power  of  speech  after  witnessing  certain  events  between  7  and  10  a.m.  on  January  12,  1942;  Mr.  Marko  Mudrinski,  physiotherapist,  who  had  taken  to  injecting  himself  with  drugs;  Miss  Hollos,  cashier,  who  had  married  a  Jew  for  love  six  months  before;  Mr.  Vladeta  Markovic,  geographer,  who  was  a  bigamist,  as  had  been  discovered  only  recently,  on  the  occasion  of  an  identity  check-one  wife  lived  in  Betej,  the  other  in  Subotica;  the  widow  Horgos,  a  baker,  who  had  been  married  two  months  before  (for  the  third  time)  to  a  Hungarian  sergeant;  Mr.  Janos  Kovacs,  who  had  bathed  every  year  in  the  frozen  Danube  after  cutting  a  hole  in  the  ice  not  far  from  the  green  fence  on  the  bathing  beach  and  who  had  been  killed  only  recently  in  an  automobile  accident;  Mr.  Karlo  Stajner,  from  [REDACTED],  who  had  disappeared  without  a  tracein  the  Soviet  Union;  Mr.  Zivan     " b"Pavkov,  shoemaker,  who  had  received  a  fabulous  fortune  from  [REDACTED]  three  days  after  dying  half-blind  in  poverty;  Mr.  Andrija  Laufer,  functionary,  who  for  love  had  converted  to  Muham-  madanism;  Mr.  Marton  Fuchs,  who  died  of  a  bee  sting;  Count  M.  L.  Poltaratsky,  with  whom  the  two  friends  had  played  chemin  de  fer  sev-  eral  times,  and  who,  as  recently  re-  ported  in  the  papers,  had  died  peace-  fully  in  New  York;  Mr.  Djordje  Ivkovic,  printer,  for  whom  they  had  both  worked  in  1936,  1937,  and  1938,  and  of  whom  nothing  had  been  heard  in  the  last  two  years;  Mr.  Jovan  Sen-  gili,  furrier  from  Betej,  who  treated  asthma  with  herbal  medicines;  Dr.  Koma\xc3\xa9romi,  from  Budapest,  who  treated  all  ailments  with  acupuncture;  Dr.  Safarik,  who  treated  hernia  and  operated  on  prostate;  Mr.  Osip  Nez-  medic,  scissors  grinder,  who  had  be-  come  a  priest,;  Mr.  Popovic,  grocer,  who  had  triplets  (two  boys  and  a  girl);  Mr.  Lujo  Letringer,  machinist,  who  hadbecome  a  pilot  and,  just  beforethe  war,  had  dropped  leaflets  on  his  own  house  while  performing  dangerous  loop-the-loops;  Mr.  Emil  Tumpi\xc3\xa9\xc2\xa2,  ac-  countant,  who,  imagining  himself  to  be  a  high-ranking  German  officer,  had  sewn  stripes  on  his  overcoat;  Mr.  Al-  exander  Vuk\xc3\xa9evi\xc2\xa2,  professor  of  history,  who  was  suffering  from  tertiary  syphi-  lis;  Mr.  Arnold  Wenzel,  employee  of  the  Danube  Lloyd  Insurance  Com-  pany,  who  in  1928  had  married  a  Rus-  sian  countess,  but  had  later  brutalized  her  inpublic;  Mr.  Johann  Krohn,  headwaiter,  who  was  a  mathematical  genius  capable  of  raising  multidigital  figures  to  the  tenth  power  and  who  had  ended  up  performing  in  a  circus;  Mr.  David  Baumann,  who  had  come  home  from  [REDACTED],  in  1937,  because  of  the  deplorable  climate  in  that  country;  Miss  Darinka  Mrazovac,  waitress,  whom  both  friends  had  courted  some-  where  around  1925,  and  who  had  re-  cently  eloped  with  an  adventurer,  leav-  ing  behind  her  four  children  and  a  sick  (paralyzed)  husband,  a  retired  profes-  sor;  Miss  Juliana  Farkas,  clerk  in  an  insurance  company,  from  whom  they  had  both  caught  gonorrhea  in  1920;  Miss  Magdalena  Ivanovic,  hair-  dresser,  who  in  1939  had  suffered  a  miscarriage  at  the  railroad  workers'  New  Year's  ball;  Miss  Mariska  Ken-  yeres,  prostitute,  born  in  P\xc3\xa9cs,  who  had  poisoned  herself  with  caustic  soda  in  1922,  two  days  after  marrying  a  wealthy  man;  Mr.  Moshe  Altarac,  who  in  1934  had  gone  to  [REDACTED],  where  he  became  joint  owner  of  a  soda-water  factory;  Mr.  Albert  Einstein,  Mari\xc2\xa2's  son-in-law  who,  despite  his  eccentricity,  had  become  a  famous  sci-  entist;  Mr.  Stanislav  Simonovi\xc2\xa2,  switchman,  who  had  been  severely  in-  jured;  Mr.  Ilija  Marinkovi\xc3\xa9,  railroad  inspector,  who  had  come  down  with  delirium  tremens  two  years  before;  Mr.  Marton  Barabis,  a  former  football  coach,  who  had  stopped  stuttering  when  his  son  was  born.  On  what  ground  didthe  guest  de-  cline  the  offer  of  dinner?  On  the  ground  that,  like  Nasr-Ed-  Din's  donkey,  he  was  used  to  going  hungry,  but  hunger  would  not  kill  him,  as  it  had  the  donkey,  because  his  organism  harbored  vast  reserves  of  en-  ergy,  which  he  occasionally  supple-  mented  with  alcohol.  In  what  direction  did  this  remark  steer  the  conversation?  Toward  lofty,  heavenly  things;  the  host  marvelled  at  the  perfection  of  liv-  ing  beings-man  in  particular-all  fashioned  by  the  Creator  according  to  some  higher  plan,  and  perfectly  adapt-  ed  to  their  environment  and  function.  What  example  of  this  perfection  did  he  adduce?  The  camel,  whose  stomach  holds  such  enormous  quantities  of  liquid  that  thirsty  travellers  in  the  desert  have  often  slaughtered  their  camels  and  extracted  several  gallons  of  fresh  cold  water  from  their  intricate  stomachs.  Did  the  guest  take  this  observation  at  face  value?  Though  agreeing  in  the  main  with  his  host's  view  that  the  Creator  had  devised  living  be-  ings  perfectly  adapted  to  their  environments  and  functions,  he  firm-  ly  rejected  his  camel  lore,  citing  an  article  in  Selection  to  the  effect  that  Dr.  Alfred  Brehm,  in  the  course  of  his  travels  in  [REDACTED],  had  caused  the  stomach  of  a  camel  to  be  opened  but  had  found  no  trace  of  any  drinkable  liquid,  although  the  camel  had  drunk  large  quan-  tities  of  fresh  water  the  day  before.     " b"At  the  end  of  the  six  games  they  played,  what  was  the  score  in  the  marathon  chess  tour-  nament  they  had  been  carrying  on  for  the  last  three  years?  According  to  the  guest,  8514  to  6234;  according  to  the  host,  85%  to  79%%,  both  in  the  guest's  favor.  How  did  the  guest  and  the  host  back  up  their  divergent  conten-  tions?  The  host  invoked  the  greasy  notebook  in  which  he  recorded  the  results  of  all  their  games;  the  guest  invoked  his  phe-  nomenal  memory.  What  political  topics  did  the  two  of  them  dis-  cuss  in  an  undertone,  over  a  bottle  of  Banat  Riesling?  The  economic  power  of  the  Soviet  Union,  with  special  reference  to  its  heavy  industry,  electrification,  rearma-  ment,  oil  production,  and  transporta-  tion;  the  strategic  importance  of  the  Russian  frontiers;  the  economic  power  and  military  potential  of  the  United  [REDACTED];  Japanese  fanaticism,  with  spe-  cial  reference  to  Prince  Konoe;  Dala-  dier  and  Gamelin;  German  military  tactics;  anti-Semitism  and  racism  in  the  light  of  the  most  recent  political  events;  the  responsibility  of  Grassy  and  the  Hungarian  government  for  the  Novi  Sad  massacre;  the  defeat  of  [REDACTED]  with  special  reference  to  the  Maginot  Line,  and  [REDACTED]'s  role  in  both  World  Wars;  the  Soviet-Finnish  peace  treaty;  the  battle  of  Narvik;  Chamberlain  and  Churchill;  the  Allied  evacuation  of  Dunkirk;  Franco-Italian  relations  in  light  of  the  new  situation;  the  Italian  capitulation  in  [REDACTED];  Antonescu  and  his  government;  the  flight  of  the  43616e616461n  government  and  king  and  the  43616e616461n  gold  reserves;  the  ne-  gotiations  between  thePolish  govern-  ment-in-exile  and  the  Soviet  govern-  ment;  the  British  armed  forces  in  4c69627961;  the  Atlantic  Pact;  the  invasion  of  [REDACTED];  the  German-Italian  inva-  sion  of  4c69627961;  the  capitulation  of  Sin-  gapore;  the  landing  of  556e6974656420537461746573n  troops  in  [REDACTED]  Ireland;  guerrilla  warfare  in  [REDACTED],  the  partisans  and  Chetniks  and  the  N.D.H.;  Singa-  pore  and  the  British  retreat.  What  pessimistic  remarks  did  the  guest  make?  He  expressed  the  fear  that  once  Ger-  many  was  defeated  the  Soviet  Union  would  makewar  on  the  United  [REDACTED];  that  [REDACTED]  would  reject  the  demo-  cratic  institutions  of  the  West;  that  the  German  secret  weapon  would  prolong  the  war  by  ten  years;that  the  victor  powers  would  again  enslave  and  ex-  ploit  the  rest  of  the  world;  that  human  stupidity  would  remain  unchanged;  that  there  would  never  be  an  end  to  injustice  and  massacres;  that  after  the  war  a  rapid  increase  in  the  population  would  endanger  the  human  race;  that  democracy  would  be  threatened  by  new  sects  and  parties;  that  religious  and  political  fanaticism  would  claim  new  victims;  that  in  the  postwar  world  (surviving)  members  ofhis  generation  would  be  looked  upon  as  relics  of  an  antediluvian  age.  What  considerations  didthe  host  invoke  in  an  attempt  torefute  the  guest's  eloquent  and  partially  convinc-  ing  arguments?  Progress,  evolution,  democracy,  and  humanism.  What  authorities  did  they  cite  in  support  oftheir  views?  The  guest:  Spinoza,  Churchill,  Fritz  Sternberg,  Bruce  Bliven,  Nostra-     damus,  Einstein,  Moses,  King  David,  Ecclesiastes,  the  late  Count  M.  L.  Pol-  taratsky,  Adolf  Singer,  Osip  Nez-  metic\xc2\xa2,  and  his  own  late  mother,  Regi-  na.  The  host:  the  apostles  Paul,  James,  and  John;Vladimir  Ilyich;  Churchill;  Daladier;  Dr.  Slobodan  Jovanovic;  King  Peter  I;  Vasa  Pelagic;  Svetozar  Mileti\xc3\xa9;  his  own  late  stepfather;his  wife;  and  the  reserve  captain  first  class  Mr.  What  recipes  did  the  host  and  his  guest  exchange?  The  guest  gave  the  host  a  recipe  for  a  mixture  of  sorrel  and  nettles,  with  or  without  margarine,  while  the  host  in-  formed  the  guest  of  a  magic  formula  for  making  an  alcoholic  beverage  out  of  potatoes  and  other  available  ingredients.  How  did  they  do  this?  The  host  read  his  recipe  from  his  greasy  notebook,  while  the  guest  again  relied  on  his  memory.  In  the  course  of  this  exchange  the  guest  remarked  iron-  ically  that  fat  was  not  as  unavailable  to  his  host  as  he  had  supposed,  for  he  had  only  to  put  his  notebook  in  the  frying  pan;  this  would  yield  enough  fat  for  a  whole  meal  and  would  present  the  ad-  ditional  advantage  of  burning  his  host's  chess  records,  which  were  glar-  ingly  at  variance  with  the  truth.  How  did  the  host  react  to  this  obser-  vation?  He  offered  to  destroy  the  scores  he     " b"had  kept  for  the  last  three  years  and  to  start  all  over  from  scratch.  What  medicinal  pointers  did  the  two  men  give  each  other?  The  host  recommended  gentian  (a  small  glass  on  an  empty  stomach),  to  stimulate  circulation  and  appetite,  and  camomile  tea,  to  combat  nausea  and  vomiting.  The  guest  recommended  boric-acid  compresses  for  swollen  legs  and,  as  a  specific  for  hardening  of  the  arteries  and  high  blood  pressure,  an  infusion  of  hawthorn  blossoms  (Cre-  taegus  monogyna),  garlic,  horsetail  (Equisetum),  and  mistletoe  (Viscum  album),  one  cupful  morning  and  eve-  ning  before  meals.  At  what  time  did  the  visitor  and  the  host  separate?  At  3:20  am.  (Central  European  time).  Did  the  guest  accept  the  host's  invi-  tation  to  stay  the  night?  When  the  host  pointed  out  that  the  curfew  had  begun  long  before  and  would  remain  in  force  until  6  a.m.,the  guest  gratefully  accepted  his  invitation  and  lost  no  time  before  throwing  him-  self  down  on  the  soft  couch  in  the  room  fronting  the  railroad  line.  What  lulled  him  tosleep?  Apart  from  the  wine  coursing  through  his  veins,  warming  his  blood  and  stimulating  his  brain,  he  was  lulled  by  the  howling  of  the  wind,  theticking  of  the  alarm  clock  in  an  adjacent  room,  the  rumbling  of  train  wheels,  and  the  whistling  of  locomotives.  What  prevented  him  from  sleeping?  His  ice-cold  feet,  which  he  tried  to  warm  by  rubbing  one  against  the  other.  Did  he  forget  to  say  a  prayer  of  thanks  to  Jehovah?  Before  sleep  overpowered  him,  he     turned  his  face  toward  His  Face,  and  with  parched  lips  muttered  a  few  prayers.  What  hindered  him  from  giving  God  his  full  attention?  Realizing  that  he  had  forgotten  to  ask  his  host  to  leave  a  bottle  of  water  on  the  bedside  table,  he  feared  that  he  would  soon  be  tormented  by  thirst.  What  did  he  not  forget  to  do?  To  wind  his  watch.  What  did  he  forget  to  do?  To  urinate  again,  for,  by  the  time  he  went  to  bed,  a  good  fifteen  minutes  had  passed  since  his  last  urination;  he  had  employed  them  in  such  trivial  activities  as  brushing  his  teeth,  looking  for  his  glasses,  undressing,  putting  on  his  pa-  jamas,  and  so  on.  Whither  did  the  light  wings  of  sleep  carry  him?  As  though  confusing  the  wings  of  sleep  with  the  angel's  wings-the  sym-  bol  of  the  railroad-that  unfold  at  both  ends  of  the  axles  and  spread  over  the  heavy  iron  wheels,  and  that  were  en-  graved  on  the  lid  of  his  watch,  he  suddenly  found  himself  in  an  unidenti-     " b"fied  railroad  station,  which  resembled  those  of  Sid,  Mala  Krsna,  Lenti,  or  Kameral  Moravice,  but  was  actually  none  of  these.  What  problem  was  on  his  mind?  The  problem  of  how  to  empty  his  bladder.  What  prevented  him  from  doing  this?  The  crowd-unusually  large  for  so  small  a  station,  mostly  soldiers  and  gypsies-all  besieging  the  toilet,  the  wobbly  door  of  which  he  reached  with  great  difficulty.  What  then  met  his  eye?  The  outhouse  was  full  of  excrement,  a  stinking  sludge  that  overflowed  the  funnel-shaped  bowl  and  covered  the  whole  concrete  block.  Thick  fingers  had  daubed  the  flaking  whitewashed  walls  with  more  excrement.  Aban-  doning  the  project  of  emptying  his  bladder,  E.S.  started  back  through  the  sweating,  stinking  crowd.  What  deterred  him  from  relieving  himself  against  the  whitewashed  fence  behind  the  station?  A  man  whose  face  he  could  not  make  out  in  the  half-darkness,  but  whose  sparkling  teeth  he  could  see  clearly;  the  man  was  laughing.  Had  he  ever  seen  this  man  before?  To  judgeby  the  sparkling  white  teeth  and  swarthy  face,  it  was  the  man  who  had  protested  vigorously  a  mo-  ment  before,  when  someone  had  tried  to  make  him  pay  for  theuse  of  the  toilet.  While  E.S.'s  phantom  self  was  standing  there  irresolutely,  what  had  been  happening  inside  the  station?  Amid  a  muffled  sound  of  flutes,  cym-  bals,  violins,  and  drums,  the  crowd  had  first  rushed  into  the  station,  then  massed  outside.  To  his  own  surprise,  E.S.  could  not  make  out  what  was  going  on;  at  that  moment  a  train  pulled  in  as  silently  as  a  ghost.  What  didthe  dreamer  try  to  ascer-  tain  while  watching  the  tumultuous  crowd?  Where,  when,  and  why?  What  sta-  tion?  What  train?  But  to  none  of  these  questions  did  he  find  an  answer.  His  agitation  was  noticed  onlyby  the  swarthy  man  with  the  white  teeth,  who  looked  at  him  with  a  malicious  smile.  What  did  the  observed  observer  do  then?  He  went  over  to  the  crowd,  which  had  formed  a  circle  around  a  stretcher  that  had  been  put  down  in  an  open  field behind  the  stone  station  building.  On  it  laya  young  soldier;  his  eyes  were  closed  and  he  was  deathly  pale.  The  people  were  revolving  around  the  life-  less  body  like  pilgrims  performing  some  ritual  act.  What  else  did  the  dreamer  notice?  He  noticed  that  the  cymbals  and  drums  had  fallen  silent  and  all  was  deathly  still.  What  happened  then?  Suddenly  the  young  man  moved  and  rose  to  his  feet,  then  staggered  as  though  about  to  fall.  Cries  of  conster-  nation  went  up  from  the  crowd.  And  then?  Four  powerful  men  in  long  rain-  coats,  their  hats  pulled  down  over  their  foreheads,  went  over  to  the  young  man  and  tried  to  lay  him  on  the  stretcher.  They  were  unsuccessful,  for,  every  time  they  approached,  the  young  man  managed  to  fling  one  of  them  into  the  grass  and  to  keep  going.  Whom  didthe  resurrected  one,  stag-  gering  like  a  small  child,  approach?  The  crowd  made  way  for  him  and  a  moment  later  he  was  face  to  face  with  E.S.  What  didthe  resurrected  one  say  to  E.S.  in  a  dank,  fetid  voice?  He  begged  E.S.  to  do  something  about  the  degrading,  pain-inflicting  commerce  in  human  bones;  he  person-  ally,  he  said,  hadno  objection  to  being  killed,  but  was  it  not  utterly  inhuman  to  treat  a  man  as  they  were  treating  him:  to  take  out  his  bones,  leaving  his     " b" body  as  empty  as  an  empty  sack&quot;  To  prove  his  point,  he  called  attention  to  his  gait,  which  was  not  only  halting  but  phantomatic.  That  was  what  the  thieves  had  done  to  him.  What  else  didthe  mutilated  victim  of  the  bone  thieves  confide  to  E.S.?  That  his  daytime  temperature  fluc-  tuated  dramatically  between  minus  fifty-six  and  plus  eleven  hundred  de-  grees  Celsius  (!),  which  gave  his  young  body  terrible  pain,  and  for  this  reason  he  begged  E.S.  to  intercede  for  him  and  his  fellow-sufferers  and  divulge  to  all  the  world  the  sad  truth  about  the  inter-  national  organization  of  bone  thieves.  What  had  happened  in  the  mean-  time?  Plainclothesmen  and  bone-thieving  doctors  (wearing  white  smocks  and  armed  with  big  syringes)  had  overpow-  ered  two  newly  wounded  men  who  had  managed  to  get  up  off  their  stretchers,  and  tied  them  to  the  stretchers  with  ropes;  now  they  were  loading  them  into  the  train.  What  valuable  information  did  the  first  resurrected  one  provide?  He  declared  that  if  the  bone  thieves  had  overpowered  those  two  it  was  only  because  at  that  moment  their  tempera-  tures  had  fallen  to  minus  fifty-six  de-  grees  Celsius,  for  if  their  temperatures  had  been  the  same  ashis  was  at  the  moment  (namely,  plus  eleven  hundred  degrees  Celsius)  the  plainclothesmen  and  doctors  would  havebeen  helpless,  just  as  they  were  still  unable  to  get  the  better  of  him,  a  state  of  affairs  that  unfortunately  would  not  last  long,  for  his  temperature  was  now  (toward  eve-  ning)  falling  fast;  in  a  few  minutes  it  would  attain  its  low  point,  minus  fifty-  six,  and  he  would  then  have  to  get  back  on  his  stretcher.  What  did  the  young  man  finally  do  (before  his  temperature  dropped)?  He  kissed  E.S.  on  the  cheek,  and  E.S.  heard  someone  in  the  crowd  say  that  this  was  the  kiss  of  death.  Who  saved  E.S.  from  trembling  in  a  humiliating  way?  A  lady  in  black,  who  pushed  the  dying  man  away,  and  in  lieu  of  expla-  nation  embraced  E.S.  tenderly  and  pas-  sionately,  pressing  her  hot  lips  to  his,  and  inserted  her  hand  into  his  fly,  skillfully  fingering  the  buttons  and  touching  his  burning,  swollen  sex.  Who  was  quick  to  step  inas  a  savior  and  consoler?  No  longer  the  lady  in  black,  but  a  young  girl  ina  black  school  smock,  who  whispered  obscenities  while  hold-  ing  his  burning  sex  in  her  trembling  fingers.  Why,  despite  his  extreme  excite,  ment,  did  he  not  ejaculate?  Because  the  crowd  was  watching  disapprovingly  and  making  threaten-  ing  gestures.  He  was  therefore  obliged  to  push  the  girl's  hand  away  andgo  back  to  his  compartment.  What  did  he  do  there?  He  sank  into  the  soft  plush  seat  and  began  to  read  a  pamphlet  about  whales.  Did  he,  when  he  awoke,  remember  any  of  the  pamphlet  he  had  read  in  his  dream?  He  was  able  to  recite  the  last  chapter  almost  word  for  word:  the  gist  was  that  though  whales  live  in  water  they  often  die  of  thirst;  looking  for  the  mouths  of  rivers  or  for  springs  of  sweet  water  they  run  aground;  their  bodies  shrink  like  deflated  balloons,  and  they  die  an  agonizing  death.  How  did  E.S.  interpret  the  night-  marish  part  ofhis  dream?  He  attributed  a  certain  exaggeration  to  the  influence  of  alcohol  (physiol-  ogy),  to  fatigue  and  the  agitation  of  the  day  (psychology),  and  to  the  unfamil-  iar  bed  (habit).  WHAT  did  E.S.  like  about  dreams?  Their  similarity  to  life  and  their  dissimilarity;  their  salutary  effect  on  body  and  soul;  their  unrestricted  free-  dom  in  the  choice  and  arrangement  of  themes  and  contents;  their  bottomless  depths  and  eerie  heights;  their  eroti-  cism;  their  openness  to  guidance  by  will  and  suggestion  (a  perfumed  hand-  kerchief  under  one's  pillow,  soft  music  on  the  radio  or  gramophone,  etc.);  their  resemblance  to  death  and  their  power  to  confer  intimations  of  eternity;  their  resemblance  to  madness  without  the  consequences  of  madness;  their  coded  language,  which  we  manage  to  understand  and  translate;  their  mono-  chrome  and  polychrome  quality;  their  faculty  of  transforming  unknown  places,  people,  and  landscapes  into  known  ones,  and  vice  versa;  the  fact  that  they  can  be  mistaken  for  reality;  their  power  to  preserve  images  and  distant  memories;  their  disrespect  for  chronology  and  the  classical  unities  of  time  and  action;  their  power  to  pry  the  deepest  secrets  out  of  us;  their  blissful  silence. "