MY  name  is  Mary  Alice,  inci-  M  dentally,  and  this  is  where  I  am  with  this  stuff  now.  A  couple  of  years  ago  my  folksdied,  one  right  after  the  other,  of  natural  causes  and  at  decent  ages.  It  was  a  trauma,  of  course,  but  an  ordinary  one,  and  I  clipped  the  Times  article  on  mourning  and  got  through  it  more  or  less  on  schedule.  I  spent  one  month  less  than  predicted  on  denial,  which  they  said  was  nothing  to  be  ashamed  of,  and  three  months  extra  being  pissed  off,  and  two  years  later  I  met  Raymond,  who  even  my  friends  thought  was  a  ballpark  figure,  and  life  started  to  look  up  again.  I  still  felt  a  little  iffy,  though,  and  my  way  of  coping  with  it  was  to  go  on  clipping  the  health  articles  from  the  Times  and  driving  tacks  through  them  into  my  bulletin  board.  It  was  obvi-  ously  a  kind  of  preventive  voodoo  that  was  meant  to  keep  anyone  I  knew  from  coming  down  with  trick  knees  or  polyps  or  whatever  else  was  in  the  air.  Even  so,  I  was  anxious  not  to  take  my  luck  for  granted  and  began  trying  to  earn  it,  in  effect,  by  being  particularly  vigilant  about  fats,  which  I  got  so  I  could  pretty  much  squeeze  from  a  stone.I  suppose  the  fact  that  they  were  measurable  was  part  of  the  attraction.  (I  came  to  like  that  about  toxins,  too.)  They  enabled  me  to  get  into  the  whole  calculus  of  mortality.  At  the  time,  Ray  had  a  diet  I'd  rather  not  go  into  here-&quot;he  jests  at  plaque,  that  never  felt  angina&quot;  could  have  been  about  him-and  I  used  all  my  guile  to  keep  him  from  jumping  to  any  premature  occlusions.  I  weaned  him  onto  bottled  water  without  his  knowing  it  by  first  cutting  the  four-  per-cent  milk  with  two-per-cent,  then  two-per-cent  with  one-per-cent,  one-  per-cent  with  skim,  and  so  on.  My  cooking  got  so  righteous  it  was  eerie.  I  was  making  bruised-apple  Betty  before  most  people  knew  to  buy  unsprayed  produce.  I  even  did  a  nice  vegetarian  scrapple.  Ray  complained  that  I  wor-  ried  more  about  his  cholesterol-to-  high-density-lipoprotein  ratio  than  I  did  about  him.  It  wasn't  true,  but  he  said  so  whenever  he  felt  sore  about  giving  up  ricotta.  I  didn't  miss  much.  I  bought  organic  produce,  and  naturally  wild  chickens  from  British  Columbia.  I  was  onto  the  Norman  Cousins  business  from  the  jump  and  saw  to  it  that  Ray  laughed  helplessly  a  little  bit  every  day,  whether  he  felt  like  it  or  not.  He  sure  seemed  like  a  convert.  I  remember  him  say-  ingover  the  paper  one  morning-I  thought  he  was  reading  it-that  a  new  study  had  shown  that  people  who  scoffed  at  fibre  were  less  apt  to  get  irritable-bowel  syndrome.  He  was  probably  trying  to  tell  me  something,  but  I  just  halved  our  intake  of  bulgur.  Say  what  you  like,  we  had  the  arteries  of  Bushmen.  So  when  did  it  start  to  go  wrong?  It  was  Ray's  birthday.  I  was  surprising  him  by  making  something  he'd  re-  quested  as  agag,  lentil  tempura,  which  meant  deep-frying  each  piece  with  a  tweezers.  That  probably  started  it-we  kept  drinking  too  long  on  empty  stomachs.  Finally  we  ate  and  I  gave  him  his  presents,  a  lead-free  pencil  and  the  first  volume  of  the  Pritikin  letters.  He  didn't  seem  that  thrilled,  and  since  we  were  both  kind  of  plastered  we  started  quarrelling.  He  ended  up  get-  ting  abusive,  the  gist  ofhis  complaint  being  that  between  the  time  I  spent  needling  him  about  his  habits  and  the  time  he  spent  modifying  them,  I'd  al-  ready  taken  ayear  off  his  life.  When  I  suggested  it  was  just  the  urethane  in  the  bourbon  talking,  he  slung  my  keys  against  the  wall  and  stormed  out  of  the  apartment.  I  just  sat  there  blinking  at  my  unbleached-muslin  apron  until  a  lump  rose  in  my  throat  like  a  big  ball  of  suet,  which  I  remember  thinking  was  ironic.  It  wasn't  long  before  the  bottom  fell  out  of  my  never-terrific  self-esteem.  I  could  tell  from  the  half-assed  way  I  was  combining  my  amino  acids.  Fi-  nally,  oneday  at  the  health-food  store  I  saw  a  flyer  advertising  a  support  group  i}]     at  the  community  center  aimed  at  peo-  ple  like  me  who  basically  felt  they  were  here  on  consignment.  It  met  weekly,  wasn't  expensive,  and  promised  to  teach  me  to  love  myself  uncondition-  ally.  I  phoned  to  ask,  but  you  couldn't  do  it  with  conditions.  I  started  going  to  this  thing,  and  at  first  it  seemed  all  right.  The  other  people  there  found  Dr.  Marks,  the  group  leader,  charismatic  and  as  good  as  his  word:  in  no  time  they  were  wild  about  themselves,  although  it  troubled  me  that  Mrs.  Marks  was  running  the  Recovering  Narcissists  workshop.  One  night,  the  woman  I  tended  to  sit  next  to  confided  to  me  that  she  was  worried  she'd  begun  living  vicariously  through  herself,  and  asked  if  I  thought  she  might  be  an  auto-co-dependent.  I  said  I  wasn't  sure  I  was  the  best  judge,  since  I  was  still  afraid  that  if  I  came  on  to  myself  and  was  rejected,  I'd  be  worse  off  than  I  was  before.  After  the  group  broke  that  evening  I  went  to  the  gym  to  clear  my  mind.  I  normally  do  about  fifteen  minutes  of  free  weights  and  then  thirty  minutes  on  the  mechanical  staircase,  which  is  good  for  getting  what  they  call  a  &quot;tenement  dweller's  high.&quot;  And,  sure  enough,  by  the  time  I'd  reached  the  ninety-second  floor,  I  felt  I'd  sorted  the  thing  out.  The  problem  is  that,  for  all  my  good-faith  exertions  (and  this  may  go  for  the  rest  of  you,  too),  I'm  in  the  negative-risk  category  for  everything  -not  just  heart  attack  or  aneurysms  but  life  itself.  I  don't  mean  you're  going  to  find  the  Spirit  in  agrain  of  bacon,  but  you're  not  going  tofind  it  by  keeping  a  low  blood  profile,  either.  Sometimes  you  have  to  make  that  little  leap  of  fat.  And  if  you  can  only  do  it  in  a  manner  of  speaking,  that's  O.K.,  too.  Thank  you. 