 b"I GOT  pregnant  on  my  honeymoon.  We'd  screwed  everywhere  we  could  for  a  year  and  three  months,  not  using  a  blessed  thing,  so  I  had  had  this  feeling  that  it  was  a  matter  of  will  power-or  not  even  will  power  but  just  your  body  knowing  that  you  were  ready  to  settle  into  life.  &quot;O.K.,&quot;  the  message  would  go  from  your  brain  down  your  backbone-pow  blip  ke-  zaam-right  to  the  ovaries:  &quot;It's  time,  right  now,&quot;  and  things  would  release,  open  up.  Your  hands  would  fit  themselves  to-I  don't  know,  knitting  needles,  diaper  pins-your  hair  would  start  to  grow  itself  into  your  mother's  hairstyle,  and  you'd  automatically  stop  wanting  to  go  out  and  drink  like  a  fool  and  dance  all  night.  I  figured  this  was  going  to  happen  when  I  was  around  twenty-six;  I  ought  to  have  had  near-  ly  another  six  years.  Oh,  I  planned  to  use  birth  control,  I  wasn't  a  total  crazy.  Just  that  once,  though,  just  for  that  couple  of  days,  we  didn't  want  to  waste  time  hanging  out  in  a  drugstore.  And,  honestly,  we  were  both  embarrassed  to  go  in  and  buy  stuff.  Now  I  slap  those  tubes  of  jelly  on  the  counter  along  with  the  Hershey  bars  and  ten-inch-  fashion-doll  clothes  and  corn  plasters,  and  I  don't  give  a  damn.  But  then  I  didn't  even  like  to  see  the  little  sign  where  the  contracep-  tive  stuff  was  kept  that  read  &quot;FEMINIE HYGIENE,&quot;  as  if  poten-  tial  babies  were  some-  thing  to  be  scrubbed  away.  Some  of  the  stuff  said,  &quot;Spermicide,&quot;  too-something  like  an  insect  spray.  &quot;You  go,&quot;  I'd  say.  &quot;No,  you,&quot;  Allen  would  say.  &quot;I  won't.&quot;  &quot;You  have  to  go,&quot;  he'd  say.  &quot;You  prom-  ised,  Bonnie.&quot;  &quot;I  did  not.&quot;  And  so  on.  The  upshot  of  this  ignorance,  this  bash-  fulness,  was  a  baby-  or  at  first  not  the  baby  itself  but  its  symptoms:  a  heavy  burning  ache  be-  hind  my  breastbone,  an  inability  to  stand  toothpaste,  the  gradual  swelling  of  my  familiar  body  into  a  strange  fruit  -a  gourd  or  a  melon-from  which  my  thin  armsand  legs  stuck  out  like  twigs.  This  brought  the  relatives  around  to  count  backward  from  the  due  date  and  offer  advice.  Most  Sundays  Allen  drove  me  to  one  house  or  another  full  of  aunts,  uncles,  in-laws,  cousins,  family  friends.  I'd  sit  in  big,  soft  chairs  sur-  rounded  by  people  looking  at  my  stom-  ach,  and  I'd  answer  questions:  &quot;It's  due  in  April&quot;  .  ..  &quot;I'm  going  to  work  until  the  last  month&quot;  .  .  .  &quot;As  long  as  it's  healthy.&quot;  Secretly,  I  wanted  to  have  a  girl.  I  already  had  Allen-it  was  hard  enough  learning  to  live  with  one  male.  Besides,  I  had  it  in  my  mind  that  I  would  be  able  to  point  out  to  thisgirl  baby  all  the  places  I  had  gone  wrong,  and  that  would  be  at  least  one  set  ofmistakes  she  wouldn't  have  to  make.  When  I  rode  on  the  bus  to  work  in  downtown  [REDACTED]  and  looked  out  the  window  at  [REDACTED]  Twenty-fifth  Street,  the  way  I'd  been  doing  for  years,  when  I  washed  the  dishes  staring  at  the  yellow  kitchen  wall  in  front  of  me,  when  I  waited  in  line  at  the  bank  orthe  supermarket,  I'd  be  thinking  of  the  things  I'd  have  to  tell  her.  About  speaking  up  for  yourself,  about  avoiding  regret,  how  to  tell  if  someone  is  lying,  what  to  say  when  something  is  your  fault.  And  actually  I  was  sure  it  would  be  a  girl.  I  had  only  sisters,  three  of  them,  and  I  had  the  further  evidence  of  other  blood  relatives:  nine  aunts  to  three  uncles.  My  mother's  mother  raised  her  children  by  herself  after  Grandpa  left-  years  of  hard  work  and  no  rest,  and  then  at  last  about  ten  years  of  sitting  back  and  having  the  fruits  of  her  labor:  respect,  tiny  grandchildren  to  pet  and  hand  back,  meals  being  cooked  for  her  in  her  own  kitchen  by  her  daughters  and  daughters-in-law.  We  area  family  of  bossy  women,  talky  women,  women  who  intend  to  be  taken  seriously.  So  it  was  natural  that  from  my  body,  so  like  my  moth-  er's  and  my  grand-  mother's,  I  would  produce  another  wom-  an.  Allen  had  none  of  this  sexual  solidar-  ity  on  his  side.  He  had  a  brother  and  a  sister,  andno  visible  aunts  or  uncles.  What  could  he  say?  He  tried  to  get  under  my  skin  by  bring-  ing  up  rumors  that  twins  ran  in  his  fami-  ly,  but  I  took  this  for  pure  devilment.  We  had  an  apart,  ment  then.  What  a  trip  it  was,  moving  into  that  apartment.  I  remember  how  enam-  ored  I  was  of  a  green  teapot-leaf  green  with  gold  trim.  I  put  it  upon  a  shelf  over  the  sink  and  turned  on  the  light  nearby,  to  admire  how  it  looked.  That  was  the  center  of  the  apartment  to  me,  that  teapot  on  that  shelf;  it     " b"was  the  picture  of  what  the  rest  of  it  would  be  when  I  fixed  it  up.  It  was  night  when  we  finished  moving  in  and  we  all  sat  around  and  ate  pizza-Annie  from  work,  Allen's  brother  John  and  his  buddy  Ted;  my  best  friend  from  school,  Rose,  and  her  sister  Ellen;  Jimy  Spicer  and  all  that  crew.  All  we  had  to  drink  was  a  six-pack  of  Cham-  pale  that  someone  had  brought  and  put  in  the  refrigerator.  No  one  would  ad-  mit  having  brought  it.  We  poured  it  into  Dixie  cups  and  drank  it  down,  rank  and  beery-sweet.  Annie  and  Rose  and  I  went  to  look  at  the  bedrooms.  Not  Ellen-she  wanted  to  stay  with  the  guys:  what  a  slut  she  was  then.  &quot;This  is  going  to  be  the  baby's  bedroom,&quot;  I  said  to  them.  &quot;It's  going  to  be  yellow  and  pink,  two  walls  each  color.  Curtains  with  a  yel-  low  stripe.&quot;  My  old  crib  was  in  there  already,  scarred  and  scratched,  wood-  colored,  pictures  of  lambs  and  rabbits  at  the  head  and  foot.  Probably  we  should  have  painted  it,  but  I  didn't  want  to  cover  up  the  lambs  and  rabbits-I'd  looked  at  them,  and  so  had  my  sisters,  whenwe  were  too  young  to  know  what  they  were,  and  traced  them  with  our  fingers,  and  I  wanted  my  girlto  look  at  them  with  her  unfocussed  eyes  and  pat  them  with  her  fat  hands.  &quot;Do  you  have  a  changing  table?&quot;  Rose  asked  me.  She  didn't  know  a  thing  about  changing  tables  and  I  knew  it.  &quot;No,  and  I  don't  want  one,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I'm  going  to  use  thetop  of  the  low  dresser.&quot;  They  looked  at  me,  looked  at  my  stomach,  and  looked  away.  They  were  horrified,  I  knew.  I  was  horrified,  too,  in  a  way,  by  the  swell  of  my  stomach  and  by  everything  else,  but  also  smug  at  having  done  it.  Without  even  trying.  &quot;Are  you  going  to  work  after?&quot;  Annie  asked  me.  &quot;When  it's  six  months  old,  I'm  go-  ing  back.&quot;  I  was  always  very  careful  to  say  &quot;it.&quot;  I  knew  it  was  a  girl  but  I  felt  it  might  jinx  things  if  I  said  &quot;she&quot;  right  out.  I  was  afraid  something  could  shift  in  my  body,  a  slow  turn  from  one  sex  to  the  other.  &quot;I  don't  think  it's  right  to  leavea  little  baby,&quot;  Rose  said.  &quot;Not  until  they  go  to  school.&quot;  I  sat  down  on  a  boxand  took  my  shoes  off.  &quot;Give  it  a  rest,  Rose,&quot;  I  said.  I  knew  she  was  saying  what  her  mother  said.  They'd  had  no  thought  intheir  heads  of  babies,  her  and  Annie.  They  weren't  pregnant.  They  didn't  know  what  to  think  of  me  at  all.  I  leaned  back  against  the  wall  and  arched  my  spine,  stretching,  with  the  curve  of  my  stomach  pushed  out.  They  looked  at  it,  and  their  hands  went  to  their  own  bodies.  Annie  put  one  hand  on  her  stomach;  Rose's  fingers  flut-  tered,  touching  her  chest,  her  hips,  twitching  at  her  clothes.  &quot;I'm  going  to  breast-feed,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;God,  you're  not,&quot;  Annie  said.  &quot;I  am,  too,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;They  get  big-  ger  if  you  do.&quot;  All  three  of  us  looked  at  my  chest.  ~  Thiswas  bold  talk  on  my  part.  Sometimes  I  felt  quite  different.  Some-  times  I  wanted  out  of  my  body.  I  didn't  feel  bad,  really-that  wasn't  it.  I  felt  dreamy  and  sleepy.  I  sat  for  hours  looking  at  baby  books,  reading  about  pur\xc3\xa9eing  fruit  and  the  order  of  immu-  nization,  sometimes  sitting  there  look-  ing  out  the  window  with  my  hand  on  the  book,  sometimes  falling  asleep  with  my  cheek  on  the  open  pages.  There  was  one  book  in  particular  that  I  liked,  thatsaid  how  to  manage  if  you  had  one  baby,  then  what  to  do  if  you  had  two,  then  three,  then  four.  How  to  take  four  children  for  a  trip  on  the  bus  was  one  of  the  things  in  this  book.  You  were  supposed  to  hold  one  by  the  hand  who  was  holding  another  by  the  hand,  one  in  a  collapsible  stroller,  one  in  a  sling  against  your  chest.  There  was  a  picture  of  this  woman  wearing  a  dress  and  a  hat,  taking  money  out  of  her  shoulder  bag  and  giving  it  to  the  smiling  bus  driver,  with  all  these  round-faced  chil-  dren  clustering  around  her  like  the  angels  that  frame  the  margins  of  holy  cards.  I  loved  that  book.  I  got  it  out  of  the  library  three  times.  No,  I  felt  fine,  really.  What  worried  me  was  this  feeling  of  inevitability.  I  was  going  to  have  a  baby  and  there  was  nothing  I  could  do  about  it.  I  couldn't  change  my  mind,  couldn't  say,  &quot;Wait,  time  out,I'd  like  to  thinkabout  this  for  a  minute.&quot;  Somewhere  in  front  of  me  were  some  solid  hours  of  pain  and  a  baby  coming.  I  was  going  to  grunt  and  bleed.  My  body  was  going  to  open.  It  was  unbelievable,  ridiculous,  and  yet  I  had  to  believe  it.  I  took  the  position  of  suspecting  everything  that  was  said  to  me.  What  did  they  know  -&quot;they&quot;&quot;  being  the  doc-  tors  and  my  female  relatives'  They  were  all  so  old.  They'd  beenproved  wrong  already.  I  was  proud  I'd  known  I  was  pregnant  before  the  doctor  said  " b"so,  even  though  the  first  two  tests  were  negative.  They'd  said  I'd  have  morn-  ing  sickness,  that  I'd  swell  up  with  water,  but  I  hadn't.  &quot;What's  the  doctor  doing  for  me?&quot;  I  asked  Allen.  We  were  in  bed  and,  against  my  protests,  he  was  rubbing  cocoa  butter  into  my  stomach,  where  the  skin  stretched  over  thebaby.  I  wanted  no  special  methods  or  precau-  tions  taken.  &quot;What?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Not  athing.  Not  a  fucking  thing.&quot;  He  put  his  hand  over  my  mouth.  &quot;Nice  language  for  a  mother.&quot;  I  said  I  had  to  say  it  now,  before  I  had  to  be  a  good  example.  I  was  feeling  cross  and  cranky.  I  closed  my  eyes  so  as  not  to  have  to  look  at  the  greasy  mound  of  my  belly.I  was  seven-and-a-half  months,  and  Ifinally  needed  to  wear  maternity  clothes,  instead  ofjust  un-  buttoning  the  fly  of  my  jeans  and  wear-  ing  a  long  shirt.  My  breasts  were  big-  ger  already  and  Allen  was  showing  signs  of  fascination  with  them,  which  I  decided  to  find  revolting  and  depraved.  You  have  to  go  to  the  doctor,&quot;  he  said  reasonably.  I  hated  him  for  saying  this.  &quot;I  go  there  and  they  make  me  give  them  a  sample  and  the  nurse  weighs  me  and then  I  sit  around  in  the  waiting  room  with  all  these  other  swollen  women  and  I  read  Highlights  and  then  I  go  in  and  he  gives  me  a  hard  time  about  gaining  too  much  and  asks  if  I've  got  any  problems  and  I  say  no.  That's  it.&quot;  &quot;Umhmm,&quot;  Allen  said.  He  moved  his  face  against  my  shoulder,  nuzzling  from  side  to  side,  each  side  sweep  car-  rying  him  a  little  farther  onto  my  breast.  &quot;Cut  it  out,  Allen.  Pay  attention.&quot;  &quot;Well,  they  can  tell  things  from  those  tests,  can't  they?&quot;  You  don't  know  anything  about  it.  You  don't  know  a  thing.&quot;  I  threw  the  cocoa  butter  on  the  floor  and  rolled  over.  It  wasn't  that  I  didn't  want  sex.  Contrary  to  what  the  doctor  had  warned,  I  wanted  it  just  as  much  as  before.  And  I  got  a  lot  of  attention,  too,  notonly  from  Allen.  I  never  would  have  credited  it,  but  there  are  a  lot  of  men  who  think  it's  sexy  that  you're  pregnant.  Even  at  nine  months,  when  I  was  straining  at  the  seams  of  these  horrible  maternity  smocks,  I  got  whistles  when  I  was  walking  down  the  street.  Guys  would  come  up  to  me  at  parties  and  make  jokes  about  buns  in  the  oven,  so  as  to  have  an  excuse  to  pat  41  my  stomach.  Partly  it  was  curiosity,  I'm  sure.  We'd  never  known  anyone  who  got  pregnant  before-anyone  our  age,that  is.  I  was  the  first  in  our  crowd.  Frankly,  I  looked  great.  My  skin  cleared  up,  for  one  thing.  So  I  wanted  to  do  it.  Allen  wanted  to  do  it.  But  when  we  did  it,  something  was  wrong.  We  seemed  to  be  looking  for  each  other,  as  if  we  were  in  a  crowded  room  or  a  dark  empty  place;  we  knew  the  other  person  was  there  but  we  couldn't  see  each  other.  We  kept  trying,  but  it  was  no  good.  When  we  finished  we'd  hold  each  other,  we'd  turn  on  theradio  and  listen  to  late-  night  talk  shows,  and  Allen  would  tell  me  jokes,  and  we'd  fall  asleep  laugh-  ing.  Some  things  were  still  O.K.  But  I  worried  about  this  full  stop  to  the  thrilling  part  of  my  sex  life.  Was  this  what  had  happened  to  all  those  sexless  women  my  mother's  age?  You  got  pregnant  and  some  switch  in  your  body  turned  off  all  that  teen-age  juice?  You  turned  your  cheek  and  pursed  your  lips  instead  of  opening  your  mouth?  You  put  your  hands  on  his  chest  to  push  him  away  instead  of  to  feel  his  hard  little  nipples?  Watched  TV  together  all  evening,  not  talking,  and  then  slept  not  touching?  By  this  time  I'd  cut  my  hours  at  the  office  to  half,  and  all  I  had  to  do  in  the  afternoons  was  sit  around  and  think.  How  long  does  it  take  to  do  the  dishes?  I  never  made  the  bed.  This  is  on  principle:  what's  the  point  of  making  it  look  unused,  unless  it's  to  impresspeo-  ple?  I  could  have  baked  but  I  was  big  as  a  house  already.  I  could  have  watched  the  soaps.  Actually,  I  did  watch  them  sometimes,  but  half  the  actors  and  all  the  story  lines  were  different  from  when  I  used  to  watch  them  in  high  school  and  I  couldn't  pay  enough  at-  tention  to  catch  up.  So  I'd  sit  in  thebig  armchair  in  the  front  room  and  look  out  the  window  and  think.  And  I'd  take  long  slow  walks,  thinking.  Sometimes  I  thought  about  our  honeymoon.  It  wasn't  much,  but  it  was  fine.  We  went  to  [REDACTED],  where  we  had  friends  we  could  stay  with  and  save  the  cost  of  a  motel,  except  one  going  and  one  coming  back.  With  these  friends,  we  went  to  some  ballgames  and  out  dancing  and  hung  out  on  the  North  Sidethe  way  we  used  to  whenwe  were  all  going  to  school  there.  At  the  time,  I  saw  my  adult  life  as  a  wonderful  extension  of  my  one  " b"year  of  college:  lots  of  driving  around,  recreational  drinking,  and  freedoms  opening  out  one  after  another.  The  last  day,  we  all  went  to  the  dunes  on  Lake  [REDACTED]  with  a  picnic.  We  for-  got  the  charcoal,  but  we  were  so  hungry  after  swimming  that  we  ate  the  hot  dogs  cold,  with  the  warm  wind  blowing  sand  at  us;  grains  of  sand  got  between  our  teeth  and  made  interesting  gritty  noises  when  we  chewed.  We  grinned  at  each  other,  baring  our  sandy  teeth,  and  we  took  pictures  of  our  legs  all  lined  up  together,  our  pumped-up  biceps,  our  arms  buried  from  shoulder  to  wrist  in  sand,  with  only  the  hand  sticking  out,  fingers  wiggling.  We  all  hugged  each  other  after,  and  Allen  and  I  drove  off,  still  in  our  wet  bathing  suits,  and  immediately  started  looking  fora  motel,  although  it  was  only  five-  thirty.  Even  so,  we  didn't  find  one  for  a  long  time.  Every  &quot;No  Vacancy&quot;  sign  made  us  hotter.  I  sat  ascloseto  Allen  as  I  could  and  tormented  him  while  he  drove,  putting  my  hands  inside  his  shirt  and  trying  to  undo  hispants.  A  couple  of  times  we  pulled  off  the  road  and  necked  furiously,  but  we  kept  on.  When  we  found  a  motel  it  was  almost     seven  and  we  fell  on  each  other,  we  melted  for  each  other,  we  opened  up  all  the  way.  That  might  have  been  the  time,  that  one.  A  MONTH  before  my  due  date,  supposedly  spring,  the  weather  was  still  gray,  sleeting,  dripping.  I  wasn't  reading  babybooks  anymore.  All  I  had  in  front  of  me,  between  me  and  the  baby  coming,  were  a  couple  of  &quot;surprise&quot;  showers-one  for  my  rela-  tives,  one  for  girlfriends.  My  mother  had  told  me  about  them  so  I  wouldn't  turn  up  wearing  something  ratty.  That  was  too  bad.  A  surprise  would  have  been  distracting,  at  least-twenty  dressed-up  women  hiding  in  closets  and  behind  the  living-room  suite,  jumping  out.  I  sat  around  and  felt  sorry  for  myself  for  not  having  a  surprise  in  my  future.  Annie,  Ellen,  and  Rose  came  over  sometimes.  I'd  known  them  all  since  grade  school,  and  they  should  have  been  a  comfort.  But  I  seemed  to  be  looking  at  them  from  a  long  way  off,  across  the  great  expanse  of  my  stom-  ach.  I  was  so  tired  of  it  all,  too  tired  to  lift  my  hand  or  shake  my  head  no  when Annie  brought  me  a  cup  of  stinking  herb  tea.  They  sat  and  chattered  about  a  whole  fun  world  that  was  no  longer  open  to  me.  Shopping.  I  couldn't  shop,  couldn't  bear  to  look  at  myself  in  a  mirror.  When  I  undressed  at  night  I  kept  my  eyes  on  a  level  so  as  not  to  see  what  was  going  on  under  my  chin.  Bad  enough  to  see  it  with  clothes  over  it.  Going  out  for  drinks  after  work.  &quot;Drinks,&quot;  &quot;work&quot;-the  words  wereno  longer  in  my  vocabulary.  Sex,  men,  flirting:  Ha.  I  wasn't  a  member  of  any  sex  anymore.  I  was  a  husk,  a  pod-a  container,  ready  to  split  open.  I  kept  thinking  and  dreaming  then  of  things  coming  open-of  seams  split-  ting,  of  cartons  breaking  and  spilling  their  contents,  of  volcanoes,  and,  more  horribly,  of  wounds,  awful  gashes  that  oozed  unlikely  substances:  peanut  but-  ter,  mud,  ketchup.  Sometimes  it  was  melons  slashed  by  a  knife,  all  the  seeds  visible  and  gleaming  wet.  I  could  hardly  stand  to  look  at  food  just  then,  but  I  ate  constantly,  I  just  shovelled  it  in.  Allen  would  watch  me  eat  for  an-  other  fifteen  minutes  after  he'd  finished  -horrified,  I  think,  to  see  all  thisstuff  going  in,  maybe  thinking  I  was  going  to  explode,  or  give  birth  rightthere  in  front  of  him.  Allen  was  far  away  from  me,  too.  Hugging  was  so  ridiculous  that  I  wouldn't  let  him  do  it.  Kissing  was  out  of  the  question,  real  kissing.  To  really  kiss  you  have  to  wrap  your  arms  around  each  other-neck,  waist,  wher-  ever.  You  have  to  press  up  against  each  other,  feel  every  part  ofhis  body  push-  ing  into  or  surrounding  every  part  of  yours.  We  lay  in  bed  next  to  each  other  every  night,  holding  hands,  staring  up  at  the  ceiling  until  we  fell  asleep.  I  stopped  even  thinking  about  the  future.  All  there  was,  was  now.  There  was  my  body  with  another  body  push-  ing  around  in  it.  I  couldn't  remember  what  my  stomach,  my  breasts,  had  looked  like  before.  I  could  hardly  focus  on  the  baby  as  any  real  thing.  When  Allen  wanted  totalk  about  names  I  really  didn't  care,  but  I  made  myself  take  a  stand,  on  principle.  There  was  no  problem  with  a  boy's  name:  Allen,  for  Allen;  Joseph,  for  my  father.  We  agreed  about  this,  and,  anyway,  I  still  knew  it  would  be  a  girl,  and  a  girl  had  to  be  named  this  name  I'd  been  carry-  ing  around  since  I  was  a  kid,  the  name  I'd  wanted  for  myself  instead  of  Bon-  " b"nie:  Rachel.  It  was  not  a  silly  name,  not  a  name  that  could  sprout  a  dopey  nickname.  It  had  a  wonderful  sound  in  your  mouth.  It  was  even  Biblical.  But  Allen  wanted  to  name  a  girl  after  his  sister.  Debbie  -I  ask  you.  This  is  what  we  talked  about  those  last  weeks,  con-  stantly-at  breakfast,  at  dinner,  in  bed.  There  was  no  compromise  available,  it  seemed.  We  both  hated  all  the  other  family  names  on  both  sides.  We  made  lists.  We  read  the  &quot;Best  Baby  Book  of  Names&quot;  to  each  other.  It  kept  our  minds  off  other  things,  like  the  fact  that  we  were  not  al-  lowed  to  screw  anymore,  even  if  we'd  wanted  to.  On  a  Saturday  exactly  two  weeks  before  my  due  date,  my  mother-in-law  drove  over.  Why?  Who  knows?  Just  to  give  us  a  hard  time,  is  what  I  thought  then.  She  came  in  and  asked  a  lot  of  questions  and  poked  around  all  over  the  apartment.  Did  I  have  my  suitcase  packed?  Had  I  cooked  up  a  lot  of  stuff  and  put  it  in  the  freezer  for  Allen  toeat  while  I  was  in  the  hospital?  Did  I  have  a  diaper  ser-  vice  yet?  The  answer  to  all  these  ques-  tions  was  &quot;no.&quot;  I  could  hardly  bring  myself  to  think  about  what  was  going  to  happen.  I'd  been  telling  myself  there  was  plenty  of  time.  It  was  just  like  when  I  was  in  school  and  there  would  be  this  big  paper  due  that  I  had  to  do  a  lot  of  library  research  for,  or  I  would  have  to  make  a  clay  relief  model  of  South  [REDACTED]  with  tiny  products  and  resources  glued  to  it.  I  would  always  start  out  with  big  plans,  make  lists,  imagine  the  comprehensiveness  of  what  it  would  be  like  when  it  was  fin-  ished-the  detail,  the  papier-m@ch\xc3\xa9  bananas,  the  small  clay  figures  with  miniature  serapes.  But  I  would  put  it  off  and  put  it  off  until  there  were  only  three  days  left,  and  then  I'd  panic  for  one  day  and  rush  around  for  another  and  stay  up  until  two  in  the  morning  on  the  third,  with  my  mother  hovering  anxiously  over  me  as  I  grimly  glued  and  pinned.  So  now  the  suitcase  lay  open  and  empty  in  our  bedroom.  The  list  of  diaper  services  laybeside  the  telephone,  unconsulted.  I  had  no  inten-  tion  of  freezing  up  big  batches  of  lasa-  gna  or  whatever.  &quot;Allen  wants  to  eat  out  while  I'm  gone,&quot;  I  said  to  my  mother-in-law.  She  was  upset  by  this,  I  could  see,  but  she  had  the  good  sense  not  to  say  anything.  To  get  out  of  the  apartment,  we  went  and  got  in  thecar  and  drove  to  the  park  near  where  we  lived.  It  was  real  spring  now,  April,  and  actually  warm.  The  sun  was  shining  weakly.  We  parked  andwalked  decorously  down  the  path,  the  three  of  us.  To  our  right  there  was  a  field  with  people  playing  catch  and  Frisbee,  and  some  swings  with  children  on  them,  swing-  ing  in  great  arcs,  pointing  their  toes  toward  the  sky.  To  our  left  there  was  the  creek,  and  what  Allen  and  I  called  the  mountain.  It  was  only  a  small  hill,  red  clay  and  crumbling  fast  on  its  steep  sides.  But  trees  grew  on  it  and  there  was  a  path  on  one  side  that  you  could  scramble  up  to  get  to  the  top,  which  was  a  narrow  ridge.  Allen  and  I  had  often  climbed  it  when  we  first  lived  in  the  apartment.  My  mother-in-law  was  fussing  with  her  purse  as  we  walked.  Allen  had  his  hands  inhis  pockets.  He  was  scuffing  up  bits  ofleaves  and  gravel  with  the     toes  of  his  tennis  shoes,  walking  his  lively,  good-natured  walk.  Even  my  mother-in-law,  with  her  arthritic  knees,  was  bouncing  along.  I  felt  like  a  sack  of  cement  on  stilts.  What  I  wanted  to  do  was  climb  the  hill.  &quot;Let's  go  up,&quot;  Isaid  to  Allen.  &quot;Don't  be  silly,&quot;  my  mother-in-law  said.  &quot;Come  on,  Allen,&quot;  I  said.  You  can't  climb  up  there  with  that  stomach,&quot;  my  mother-in-law  said.  She  was  showing  alarm  and  I  meanly  en-  joyed  it.  &quot;We  can  just  go  part  way,&quot;  I  said  to  Allen,  but  I  meant  to  go  all  the  way  once  I  got  him  up  there.  He  looked  doubtful,  but  he  followed  me  to  the  place  where  you  have  to  step  over  the  narrow  arm  of  the  creek  that  circles  the  hill.  I  stepped  across,  and  stood  waiting  for  him  on  the  other  side.  &quot;Bonnie!  Bonnie!&quot;  my  mother-in-  law  called  from  the  path.  She  was  holding  her  purse  in  front  of  her  with  both  hands.  &quot;I'm  going  to  do  it!&quot;  I  shouted  to  her.  We  started  up.  The  parts  that  were  easy  before  were  harder.  The  bits  of  the  path  where  you  had  to  plant  your  feet  carefully  because  the  ground  sloped  away  were  terrible.  My  balance  was  different.  I  felt  like  a  tightrope  " b"walker,  holding  my  arms  out  to  keep  upright.  My  stomach  got  in  the  way  whenever  I  had  to  climb  up  and  over  the  exposed  roots  of  the  trees,  as  if  I  were  mounting  a  staircase.  I  had  to  scrabble  up  sideways  and  couldn't  use  my  hands  as  much  as  I'd  have  liked.  Finally  we  came  to  a  part  of  the  path  that  was  like  a  chute,  which  youhad  to  climb  duckfooted,  setting  your  feetat  a  careful  angle,  bending  forward  and  rushing  up,  to  use  momentum.  I  did  all  that.  Allen  was  just  behind  me.  I  made  it  up  to  the  bend  in  the  chute.  I  fell  to  my  hands  and  knees.  &quot;Bonnie!  Bonnie!&quot;  my  mother-in-  law  was  yelling,  and  I  could  hear  Allen  gasping  behind  me.  &quot;'You  dope,  you  jerk,  you  bitch,&quot;  he  said.  He  gripped  me  by  my  hips  and  shook  them,  put  his  arms  aroundme,  and  pushed  his  faceinto  the  small  of  my  back.  I  let  my  arms  relax  untilI  was  lying  on  my  side,  my  face  against  the  red  crumbly  clay,  which  was  cool  and  slightly  slick  under  my  cheek.  Looking  up,  I  could  see  the  top  just  above  us,  another  ten  feet-the  hard  ridge  of  the  hill  that  I  knew  was  bare  of  grass  but  carpeted  with  pine  needles  that  slipped  pleasantly  under  your  feet.  When  you  stood  up  at  thetop  and  looked  down,  the  eroded  sides,  rawer  and  redder  than  the  hard-packed  soil  of  the  ridge,  sloped  away  from  under  your  feet  and  you  felt  as  if,  with  very  little  effort,  youmight  slide  down  them  into  the  water  of  the  creek.  Just  one  step,  one  small  movement;  no  thought  was  necessary.  Allen  was  crying  a  little,  which  I  thought  was  very  sweet  of  him.  &quot;Oh,  I'm  all  right,&quot;  I  said.  I  sat  up  so  I  could  take  his  hand  and  kiss  the  palm.  My  mother-in-law  was  hesitating  at  the  brink  of  the  stepping-over  place,  holding  her  purse  up  almost  overher  head.  &quot;I'm  not  going  to  do  it!&quot;  I  yelled  to  her.  &quot;What?&quot;  she  yelled  back.  &quot;I  won't  do  it!&quot;  I  yelled.  Allen  and  Istarted  down.  I  slid  down  over  the  bad  places  on  my  butt,  Allen  going  first  to  stop  me  if  I  fell.  When  we  got  to  the  bottom  our  clothes  were  dusty  and  smeared  with  red.  My  mother-in-law  looked  at  us  as  if  we  were  accident  victims.  &quot;You'll  be  in  the  hospital  before  morning,  after  that,&quot;  she  said.  I  didn't  care.  She  was  right,  though.  In  thecar  on  the  way  back  I  felt  the  first  tighten-  ings  and  loosenings,  not  yet  pain.  And  after  she'd  gonehome,  I  started  to  have  mild  contractions,  and  then  a  major  one-the  big  pain  rippling  down,  pushing  my  thoughts  down,  locating  my  center  lower  and  lower.  All  the  things  I  didn't  know-when  tostart  solid  food,  about  Montessori,  how  to  satisfy  the  sucking  reflex-they  didn't  bother  me  a  bit  then,  while  I  was  go-  ing  to  the  hospital  with  Allen  in  the  car.It  was  like  riding  a  comet  or  a  roller  coaster,  this  intense  purposeful  movement  after  all  those  months  of  waiting.  I  didn't  see  anything  ahead  of  me-not  our  lovely  daughter;  not  the  tired  doctors  who  would  talk  to  Allen  afterward,  my  blood  on  their  hands  and  their  clothes;  not  my  flat-  tened,  empty  stomach;  not  my  sallow  face  in  the  mirror  the  first  time  I  could  get  up  by  myself  and  go  to  the  bathroom;  not  Allen  with  a  mask  on  his  face  bringing  the  baby  through  the  door  for  me,  with  my  lips  saying  &quot;Ra-  chel&quot;  for  the  first  time.  I  didn't  see  any  of  that.  But  I  could  feel  events  rush-  ing  toward  me  as  they  wheeled  me  in.  I  could  feel  my  life  changing,  the  old  familiar  parts  of  it  crumbling  away  and  a  new  shape  emerging  that  I  would  come  to  know,  and,  God,  I  was  so  excited  I  could  hardly  stand  it. "