 b"BY the  time  you  receive  this,  it  B  will  have  been  more  than  five  hundred  days  and  nearlyseven-  ty-five  weeks  since  Leann  and  I  broke  up,  and,  while  I  cannot  proclaim  our  long  ordeal  ended,  I  am  pleased  to  report  some  encouraging  developments  in  that  direction.  LEANN  WATCHER  OF  THE  WEEK  ...  Kudos  (and  a  two-year  subscription  to  this  newsletter)  for  Mike,  of  Evanston,  Ill.,  who  so  eloquently  and  informa-  tively  captures  a  brief  encounter  he  had  with  Leann  on  Jan.  6.  &quot;Leann  has  lost  some  weight,&quot;  Mike  writes,  &quot;but  she  is  no  less  beauti-  ful  for  it.  She  says  she  has  been  exercis-  ing,  taking  classes,  doing  this,  doing  that.  It  appeared  to  me  that  she  was  struggling  to  fill  some  void.  Your  name  didn't  come  up,  but  it  wasn't  so  much  what  she  said  as  what  she  didn't  say.&quot;  THE  STRUGGLE  CONTINUES  .  ..If  only  it  could  all  be  such  good  news.  But  unfortunately,  OPERATION:  TER-  RIBLE  MISTAKE  hasnot  been  the  success  I  anticipated,  and  I'm  afraid  a  new  strategy  may  be  required.  As  you  may  recall  (LWL  #57),  the  operation's  objectives  were  to:  (1)ap-  ply  societal  pressure;  (2)  foster  emo-  tional  uncertainty;  (3)  precipitate  re-  evaluation;  and  ideally  (4)  achieve  reconciliation.  The  following  conversation  starter  was  suggested:  LEANN,  I  WAS  SO  SORRY  TO  HEAR  ABOUT  YOU  AND  LARRY.  YOU  MAKE  SUCH  A  WONDERFUL  COUPLE.  SO  I  DONT  MIND  TELLING  YOU,  I  THINK  YOU  ARE  MAKING  A  TERRIBLE  MIS-  TAKE.  THIS  IS  MY  OWN  PERSONAL  OPINION  ON  THE  MATTER.  Unfortunately,  a  number  of  well-  meaning  individuals  took  this  sugges-  tion  rather  more  literally  than  in-  tended,  and  repeated  it  verbatim  to  Leann,  creating  a  cumulative  effect  other  than  the  one  desired.  I  have  now  received  word  through  an  intermediary  that  Leann  requests  I  &quot;call  off  the  zombies.&quot;  I  will  honor  her  wishes,  as  always,  though  I  must  em-  phasize  that  I  cannot  beheld  responsi-  ble  for  the  behavior  of  individuals  act-  ing  on  their  own  initiative.  LEANN  ANONYMOUS  ..  .  In  our  first  meeting  at  Gatsby's,  the  bartender,  Mark,  graciously  accommodated  us  by  closing  off  the  back  room  and  supply-  ing  extra  folding  chairs.  All  in  atten-  dance  praised  the  wisdom  of  moving  these  mutual  support  sessions  from  my  apartment,  which  some  had  com-  plained  was  not  neutral  territory,  and  which  hadbecome  quite  cramped  in     any  case.  (On  a  related  matter,  Mark  told  me  privately  that,  whilehe  appre-  ciates  our  patronage,  he'd  prefer  that  in  the  future  we  try  not  to  monopolize  the  jukebox,  or  at  least  play  a  variety  of  songs.  He  says  that  if  he  doesn't  see  some  improvement  the  Hank  Williams  selections  will  have  to  go.)  We  ordered  a  round,  and  at  Tom's  suggestion  dispensed  with  the  reading  of  the  minutes.  We  proceeded  immedi-  ately  to  old  business,  resuming  debate  on  Leann's  eyes  and  whether  they  are  a  turbulent  sea  green  ora  sand-flecked  moon  blue.  It  appeared  there  could  be  no  middle  ground  on  the  issue,  until  Dick  stood  up  and  declared,  &quot;'To  para-  phrase  Elton  John,  'Who  cares  if  they're  blueor  if  they're  green,  those  are  the  sweetest  eyes  I've  ever  seen.'  &quot;  The  motion  to  adopt  Dick's  lan-  guage  carried  unanimously,  and  we  collected  more  change  for  the  jukebox.  We  ordered  another  round,  and  the  conversation  turned  naturally  to  the  rest  of  Leann:  herquirky  perky  nose,  her  funny  sunny  smile,  the  perfect  curve  of  her  neck,  her  soft  shoulders,  and  so  on,  until  petty  jealousies  pre-  cluded  further  discussion.  Soon  thereafter,  we  took  a  break  to  order  more  refreshments,  and  then  it  was  time  to  welcome  new  members.  A  stubby  and  not  particularly  at-  tractive  man,  who  had  been  spotted  with  Leann  as  recently  as  mid-Novem-  ber,  stood  up  in  the  back  of  the  room.  &quot;My  name  is  Harry,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;and  I  love  Leann.&quot;  Harry  then  related  his  long,sad  tale,  the  details  of  which  were  all  too  familiar,  endingwith  that  same  old  refrain.  &quot;She  met  this  [REDACTED];  he  said.  &quot;She  says  she's  deliriously  happy.&quot;  &quot;Deliriously  happy,  eh?&quot;  Gun-  ther  said  slowly,staring  into  his  beer.  &quot;He's  doomed.&quot;  Those  of  us  who  could  still  laugh  did  so.  &quot;Really?&quot;  Harry  said,  cheering  considerably.  &quot;So  you  think  there's  a  chance  I  can  win  her  back?&quot;  This  question  prompted  exten-  sive  debate,  leading  to  the  inevita-  ble  threats  of  violence  and  ceasing  only  when  Quentin  moved  that  we  change  the  name  of  our  group  from  Lovers  of  Leann  to  Victims  of  Leann.  The  motion  was  sound-  ly  defeated,  and  we  voted  to  ad-  journ.  Elmo  closed  the  meeting  by  " b"singing  &quot;Oh,  Leann,&quot;  including  a  new  verse  that  had  recently  come  to  him  in  a  dream:  Oh,  Leann,  I  love  you,  Love  you  still,  I  loveyou,  I  love  you,  I  love  you  still,  I  always  will.  LEANN  ALERT  ..  .  My  special  friend  Jane,  who  has  been  so  supportive  dur-  ing  this  difficult  time,  has  suggested  there  is  a  need  for  a  group  addressing  the  concerns  of  the  lovers  of  the  Lovers  of  Leann.  Anybody  who  knows  some-  body  who  might  be  interested  in  such  a  group  should  have  them  write  to  Leann  Anon  at  this  address.  THIS  WEEK'S  LEANN  CHALLENGE  ...  Leann  is  what  she  eats,  but  how  well  do  you  know  what  she  eats?  Every-  body  knows  Leann  likes  horseradish  on  her  hamburgers,  but  how  many  of  you  know  what  kind  of  horseradish?  (Here's  a  hint:  She  received  a  case  of  it  for  Christmas.)  The  answer  to  last  week's  challenge:  From  left  to  right.  LEANN'S  MAILBAG  ..  .  The  mail  ran  heavy  this  week  with  entries  to  the  &quot;Candid  Leann&quot;  photo  contest,  and  it's  obvious  I  need  to  remind  everyone  that  the  rules  clearly  stipulate  that  Le-  ann  must  be  the  only  person  shown  in  the  photograph.  In  consideration  of  those  who  may  wish  to  resubmit,  I've  decided  to  ex-  tend  the  deadline  two  weeks,  until  Jan.  29.  And  remember,  entries  cannot  be  returned.  One  of  our  foreign  correspondents,  Miles,  writes  from  Windsor,  Ontario,  &quot;I'm  going  to  be  in  the  States  in  the  near  future,  and  I  was  hoping  to  finally  meet  this  Leann  I've  heard  so  much  about.  Do  you  have  her  phone  number  or  an  address  where  I  can  write  her  directly?&quot;  No  need  for  that,  Miles.  Just  send  your  correspondence  to  Leann  in  care  of  this  newsletter,  and  I'll  make  sure  she  gets  it.  And  finally,  Reggie,  of  Buffalo  Grove,  Ill.,  writes  in  and  asks:  &quot;Larry,  isn't  it  time  you  got  on  with  your  life?  It's  been  nearly  two  years  [sic]  since  Leann  broke  up  with  you  [sic],  and  I  hate  to  be  the  one  to  tell  you,  pal,  but  it's  over.  O-V-E-R  [sic].  &quot;But  listen,&quot;  Reggie  continues,  &quot;there  are  a  lot  of  other  chicks  in  the  sea,  my  friend,  and  they're  yours  for  the  picking.  Go  for  it!&quot;  Well,  Reggie,  I  don't  quite  know  how  to  answer  that.  It's  difficult  to  determine  exactly  what  it  is  you're  driving  at,  since  I'm  afraid  I  do  not  share  your  bitter  perspective  or  your  particular  gift  for  playgroundapho-  risms.  So  please  understand  when  I  suggest  this:  You  know  nothing  about  love.  But  thanks  for  the  letter,  Reg.  Your  &quot;Larry  Loves  Leann&quot;  T-shirt  is  in  the  mail."