 b"THE  summer  before  last,  I  was  headed  to  [REDACTED]  on  my  horse  Old  Dan,  driving  two  hundred  head  of  theripest-smelling  longhorns  you  ever  rode  downwind  of,  when  sud-  denly  here  comes  a  balled-up  newspa-  per  stuck  inside  some  tumbleweed.  As  I  had  been  without  news  for  weeks,  I  leaned  down  and  snatched  it  up  and  read  it  trotting  west,  though  the  front  page  was  missing  and  all  there  waswas  columnists  and  the  life-style  section,  so  I  read,  bouncing  along  in  a  cloud  of  manure,  an  article  called  &quot;43  Fabulous  Salads  to  Freshen  Up  Your  Summer-  time  Table,&quot;  byPrudence  Hart,  which  made  me  wonder  if  my  extreme  lone-  someness  might  not  be  the  result  of  diet.  Go  ahead,  say  I'm  loco,  but  a  cowboy  doesn't  get  much  fibre  and  he  eats  way  too  much  beef.  You  herd  cattle  all  day,  you  come  to  despise  them,  and  pretty  soon,  by  gorry,  you  have  gone  and  shot  one,  and  then  you  must  eat  it.  Meanwhile,  all  those  cattle  tromping  around  on  the  greens  take  away  your  taste  for  salads,  just  the  way  arriving  at  a  creek  after  cattle  have  walked  in  it  and  drunk  from  it  and  spit  in  it  seems  to  turn  a  man  toward  whiskey.  Shorty,  you'vegot  to  get  out  of  this  cowboy  life,  I  thought  that  night.  I  was  feeling  low.  The  wood  was  wet,  so  the  campfire  smoked,  and  the  beans  were  cold  and  the  pork  half  raw,  and  as  I  was  fetching  a  folding  chair  from  the  saddlebags  Old  Dan  accidentally  stepped  on  me  and  aboutbroke  my  foot.  Con-  sarn  it!  Isat  down  and  drew  up  a  list  on  the  back  of  a  pictureof  my  mother.  REasonxns  to  BEor  Not  To  Br  a  Cowsov  Freedom  to  be  your  own  man.  The  aw-  ful  loneliness  that  ensues  from  this.  Most  beautiful  country  onGod's  green  earth  to  look  at.  No  home,  nowhere  to  sleep  but  on  the  cold  ground.  You  get  a  bad  back,  pretty  soon  you're  too  bent  over  to  lookat  scenery.  Good  Old  Dan-what  else  can  he  do?  You  can't  live  for  your  horse,  especially  not  one  who  steps  on  you.  Love  to  be  with  my  pals.  Those  cheating,  lying  gin-soaked  idiots?  They  all  moved  to  town  a  long  time  ago.  The  [REDACTED]  must  be  won  for  the  White  Man.  I  did  my  part.  The  chance  to  be  a  True  Cowboy,  who  stands  up  for  what's  Right  and  Fair.  You  oughta  settle  down  and  start  building  up  equity.  You  have  got  nothing  to  show  for  your  hard  life,  nothing.  So  it  was  an  even  draw-six  of  one,  half  a  dozen  of  the  other-but  my  foot  hurt  so  bad  I  sold  the  cattle  to  a  Mormon  and  headed  in  to  Pleasant  Gulch  and  became  deputy  to  Sheriff  Dibble.  Bought  a  condo  over  the  saloon  and  a  full-size  bed  and  walnut  dining-  room  set  and  blue  dotted-swiss  cur-  tains.  You  miss  curtains  so  much  on  the  trail;  there's  really  no  place  to  hang  them.  And  I  bought  myself  a  set  of  china.  A  cowboy  gets  sick  of  the  sound  of  his  fork  scraping  a  tin  plate,  and  this  was  the  first  good  china  I  ever  owned:  six  place  settings,  with  salad  bowl,  soup  bowl,  cup  and  saucer,  dinner  plate,  and  dessert  plate,  in  a  pattern  called  Amaryllis,  plus  two  platters,  two  servingbowls,  gravy  boat,  teapot,  and  soup  tureen.  The  truth  was,  I  didn't  know  five  other  people  in  Pleasant  Gulch  well  enough  toinvite  to  dinner,  but  I  felt  confident  I'd  be  sticking  around  and  would  soon  make  friends,  because  the  town  was  perfect,  its  lawns  and  porches  and  street  lamps  so  welcoming  com-  pared  to  rocks  and  buttes,  but  then  one  night  the  young  couple  next  door  banged  on  my  door  and  said,  &quot;You're  driving  us  nuts,  Mr.  Shorty.  You  gar-  gle  so  loud,  and  twirl  your  rope,  and  jingle  your  spurs,  and  your  yodelling  is  making  our  lives  worthless.  No  more  yodeladihoo  orwhoopitiyiyo,  O.K.?&quot;  I  got  so  dagnabbed  mad  I  stomped  out,  saddled  Old  Dan,  and  left  town  without  even  a  coat.  What  right  did  they  have  to  say  that,  anyway?  I  was  burned  up.  I  said,  &quot;O.K.,  you  got  to  be  so  unfair,  T'll  show  you!  I'll  leave!&quot;  But  I  was  already  gone.  And  frankly  I've  left  so  many  towns  by  now  that  I'm  used  to  it  and  don't  even  get  so  mad  as  in  the  past.  Leaving  town  is  what  cowboying  is  about.  You  find  a  nice  place  and  it's  won-  derful  and  then  you  can't  stand  it.  So  you  drift  off  down  the  trail  and  get  wet  and  miserable  and  so  lonesome  you  can't  bear  it  for  another  minute,  so  you  gallop  into  the  nearest  town  and  are  overwhelmed  by  the  Beauty  of  Society  -cheap  floozies  and  old  geezers,  preachers,  lunatics,  hoboes,  school-  teachers,  old  scouts  with  their  sun-  burned  faces  and  their  voices  raisedin  song,  the  jokes  and  gibes  and  yarns,  the  barn  dances,  the  woman  who  invites  you  to  stay  the  night.  People  are  great  when  you  haven'tseen  any  for  a  few  months!  So  you  find  a  job  and  an  apartment,  settle  down,  get  comfort-  able,  think,  This  time  if's  for  real-  and  in  a  little  while  are  wounded,  mad,  miserable,  and  back  in  thesaddle  again.  This  is  the  basic  cowboy  pattern.  ROM  Pleasant  Gulch  I  rode  for  twenty-two  days  along  the  banks  of  the  Big  Crazy,  until  one  day  I  forgot  my  boots  at  a  campsite,  and  had  to  come  into  Pig  [REDACTED]  to  purchase  a  new  pair.  Rode  in  on  Main  Street,  rain  pouring  down  in  sheets  and  me  soaked  to  the  skin,  and  a  woman  yelled  from  a  porch,  &quot;Come  on  in,  stranger,  and  get  yourself  a  plateful  of  grub!&quot;  The  Andersons.  Kindest  people  you'd  ever  want  to  meet.  I  sat  in  their  warm  kitchen  and  gabbed  for  three  hours  and  told  them  everything  about  myself,  personal  stuff,  and  it  was  satisfying.  I  rented  a  tiny  room  from  them  and  went  to  work  in  their  general  store  and  fell  in  love  with  their  daughter.  &quot;You  are  the  son  we  never  had,&quot;  they  said.  Everything  was  perfect,  and  then  one  night  Leonora  (that  was  her  name)  said,  with  big  blue  tears  in  her  eyes,  &quot;How  come  you  go  for  long  walks  alone  out  across  the  prairie  sometimes,  Leonard?  Can  you  imagine  how  it  makes  me  feel,  or  do  you  think  I  don't  motice?  Do  you  think  that  other  people  don't  talk  about  it  and  wonder  why  I'm  not  there  with  you?  Don't  you  see  that  it  makes  me  look  like  a  fool?&quot;  Well,  I  wasn't  going  to  stick  around  for  thirty  years  of  that,  so  I  saddled  up  and  rode  off  down  the  trail  toward  the  Bitterroot,  feeling  dumb.  Couldn't  bear  to  bealone  and  couldn't  bear  to  be  with  people,  either.  Thought  it  might  be  due  to  a  lack  of  fluoride.  Or  it  could  be  genetic-it's  hard  to  tell.  My  daddy  left  home  when  I  was  two.  If  we  had  fluoride,  he  took  it  with  him.  Rode  thirty-seven  days  through  Arapaho  country  and  finally  rode  in  to  Pruitt.  A  bitterly  cold  day,  windy,  snow  flurries,  and  me  without  pants-a  cougar  had  run  off  with  my  only  pair  as  I  slept.  Didn't  mean  to  settle  down,  just  wanted  to  sit  in  the  saloon  and  get  the  chill  off  my  bones,  but  a  fat  lady  cried  out  from  a  white  frame  house,  &quot;My  husband,  Bob,  is  just  your  same  size,  Mister!&quot;  So  in  I  go  and  get  a  pair  of  his  pants.  The  Nelsons.  I  took  a  shower,  and  the  towels  were  soft  and  smelled  lemony.  You  miss  that  soft-  ness,  that  cleanliness,  on  the  trail.  Had  split-pea  soup  and  talked  about  this,  " b"that,  and  the  other  thing,  and  the  next  day  I  got  ajob  at  thestage-  coach  office,  as  assistant  director  of  customer  service,  and  fell  in  love  with  Lena,  and  the  weeks  went  along  like  a  song.  She  was  crazy  about  me  and  would  bound  from  the  bed  stark  naked  and  grin-  ning  and  serenade  me  in  a  sweet,  flat  voice  as  she  dressed  and  made  me  abig  breakfast.  She  was  a  Methodist,  so  I  became  a  Meth-  odist  and  taught  Sunday  school  and  coached  the  boys'  spelling  team,  and  one  day  I  came  home  with  sixteen  place  settings  of  a  pattern  called  Waterlily,  and  we  made  plans  to  wed.  One  morning,  shaving,  I  thought,  Shorty,  this  idyllic  life  is  just  about  to  come  to  a  crashing  halt.  Somebody  is  about  to  ruin  it.  This  dawned  on  me  with  dead  certainty.  People  would  turn  on  me,and  Lena  would  leave  me  and  knock  me  down  and  break  my  heart.  &quot;How  can  you  do  it?&quot;  Icried,  but  I  knew  they  sure  as  shootin'  would,  and  it  made  me  so  mad  I  put  down  my  razor  and  went  straight  out  the  door  and  up  to  the  bank.  Pulled  my  hat  down  low,  lather  all  over  my  face,  and  six-gun  in  hand.Burst  in  and  yelled,  &quot;Everybody  face  down  on  the  floor!  Nice  and  easy  now,  and  nobody  gets  hurt!&quot;  They  said,  &quot;Why  are  you  doing  this,  Shorty?  You  are  one  of  our  lead-  ing  citizens  and  a  Christian  and  are  blessed  with  the  love  of  a  wonderful  woman.&quot;  I  said,  &quot;It  can't  last,  so  I  may  as  well  get  something  out  of  it  for  myself.&quot;  I  left  with  thirty-four  thousand  dollars  in  my  saddlebags  and  rode  for  forty-  three  days  to  a  town  called  Pit  City.  No  family  took  me  in,  no  woman  offered  me  comfort,  and  I  sought  no  solace  in  the  church.  I  paid  with  cash.  Bought  a  spread  of  my  own  called  the  Rocking  Dog  and  hired  two  cowhands,  Dusty  and  Lefty.  We  got  along  all  right,  except  that  I  was  jumpy.  I  couldn't  sit  still  for  two  minutes.  It  used  to  be  I  could  perch  on  the  top  rail  of  the  corral,  roll  a  smoke,  squint,  and  not  say  a  word  for  hours,  just  spit,  but  now  I  paced  to  and  fro  and  talked  a  lot,  all  of  it  dumb.  I'd  say,  &quot;Tell  me,  boys,  am  I  a  good  boss  or  do  you  have  something  on  your  chest  you'd  like  to  get  off?&quot;  'They  said  every-  thing  was  hunky-dory.  I'd  say,  &quot;No,  it  ain't.  Something's  wrong.  Level  with  me.  I've  donesomething  to  offendyou.  Tell  me  what  it  is.&quot;  Naw,  they  said,  you're  great  to  us.  &quot;You're  just  being  nice.  Why  won't  you  say  what  it  is?&quot;  I  said.  Because  it's  nothing,  they  replied.  'Tell  me  what's  wrong,&quot;  I  said.  They  said,  nothing  is.  This  went  on  for  weeks,  and  finally  Dusty  said,  &quot;The  schoolmarm  is  a  therapist  part  time,  I  hear.&quot;  So  twice  a  week  for  thirty-seven  weeks  I  lay  down  on  Mary  Ellen  Henry's  living-room  couch  and  told  her  everything  about  myself.  She  used  catsas  a  therapeutic  medium.  (She  explained  why,  but  I  forget.)  A  cat  lies  on  your  chest  and  you  talk  to  it,  and  she  listens,  e.g.:  Mz:  Boy  I  sure  feel  confused,  Puff.  I'm  so  sad  and  mixed  up,  I  could  go  get  drunk  and  jump  off  the  roof.  But  I'd  probably  miss  the  ground.  Her:  Puff,  you  tell  thatnice  man  to  tell  you  a  little  more  about  when  his  mama  left  him  at  the  train  station  and  went  off  with  the  drygoods  salesman.  I  gave  it  my  best  shot  but  was  no  good  at  therapy,  and  one  morning  I  said,  &quot;I've  decided  that  you've  proba-  bly  done  as  much  for  me  as  you  pos-  sibly  can,  Puff,  so  this  will  be  my  last  time.&quot;  Mary  Ellen  was  stunned,  as  if  I'd  slapped  her.  &quot;How  can  you  do  this  to  me?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Don't  you  realize  that  I'm  a  part  of  your  life  and  you've  become  someone  important  in  mine?&quot;  SO  off  I  go  again  across  the  sandy  flats  on  Old  Dan,  heading  toward  the  big  mesas,  having  spent  most  of  the  loot  from  the  robbery  on  therapy,  and  there  I  was,  lonesome  again.  Hooked  up  with  an  old  coot  named  Gene  Smiley,  but  he  never  talked.  I'd  say,  &quot;What  you  think  about  this  goofball  President  and  the  millions  he  dished  out  to  his  rich  buddies?,&quot;  knowing  Gene  was  a  Republican.  Fourteen  miles  would  go  clip-clopping  by  and  37     finally  he  would  say,  &quot;Oh,  I  guess  it  all  depends  on  how  you  look  at  it.&quot;  A  taciturn  sidekick  is  like  buying  a  ticket  to  see  the  sun  set.  Who  needs  it?  Later,  Gene  got  bit  by  his  horse  and  was  laid  up  with  gelding  fever  and  hallucinated  and  had  fits  and  talked  a  blue  streak  for  a  month-about  eco-  nomics,  mostly-but  we  had  broken  up  and  I  wasn't  there  to  enjoy  it.  I  had  gone  to  Big  Gap.  Lived  there  two  weeks,  bought  two  place  settings  of  china  (Royal  Doulton),  and  the  same  darn  thing  happened  that  always  does.  They  sure  named  Big  Gap  right;  it's  the  first  thing  you  think  when  you  get  there.  I  felt  so  bad  after  leaving  I  got  sick.  I  lay  down  in  the  dirt  and  wrapped  myself  in  a  blanket  and  shivered  all  night  and  woke  up  in  the  morning  and  found  I  was  about  thirty  feet  from  the  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  hundreds  of  wagon  trains  going  by,  and  now  and  then  a  pioneer  ora  prospector  would  yell,  &quot;Howdy!  How  are  ye  down  yon-  der?  Ye  heading  [REDACTED],  too?&quot;  and  I'd  say,  &quot;I  feel  like  I'm  coming  down  with  something.  I  don't  know,  I  got  a  head-  ache  and  chills  and  feel  weak  and  list-  less.  You  got  a  thermometer?  Is  saltpe-  ter  supposed  to  be  good  for  this?  Think  I  should  bleed  myself?&quot;  But  my  sickly  voice  could  not  be  heard  over  the  thun-  der  of  hooves  and  the  clatter  of  the  wagons.  Nobody  stopped.  Soon  I  saddled  up  and  moved  on.  And  now  here  I  am,  once  more  on  the  move  and,  seeing  a  town  on  the  horizon  yonder,  about  to  make  theold  mistake  again.  I  don't  know  for  sure,  but  that  town  looks  an  awful  lot  like  Scab-  byville,  and  if  itis,  then  I  wonder  ifit's  true  what  I  heardonce  about  Lena  moving  to  Scabbyville.  Somebody  said  she  did,  I  forget  who.  Of  course,  it  may  not  be  true,  and,  then  again,  that  town  might  not  be  Scabbyville.  I  guess  there  is  only  one  way  to  find  out.  "