 b"Liza's  friend  Dutton  has  just  told  her he is  convinced  he  is  turning  into  a  woman.  After  he  says  it,  Liza  looks  up,  confused.  They  are  in  a  sports  bar,  a  smoky,  dark  tunnel  of  a  place  festooned  with  pennants  and  jer-  seys  tacked  to  the  walls.  She's  never  been  here  before.  After  shepicked  Dut-  ton  up  at  O'Hare,  they  took  the  train  into  the  city,  found  hishotel,  and  went  into  the  first  barthey  saw.  She  notices  now  that  hehas  ordered  whiskey,  which  is  new.  Both  Dutton's  father  and  brother  died  alcoholics.  &quot;What  are  you  talking  about?&quot;  she  says.  &quot;What  do  you  mean?&quot;  &quot;I  mean  I  drive  by  her  house  at  night.  I  drink  coffee  in  the  window  of  the  corner  restaurant  near  her  work.&quot;  &quot;Oh.  You  mean  you're  becoming  a  victim.&quot;  &quot;Yes.  Exactly.&quot;  &quot;'Well,  that's  depressing.  It's  de-  pressing  to  hear  you  think  that's  what  a  woman  is.&quot;  He  touches  her  hair,  his  fingers  lin-  gering  at  her  temple.  &quot;Sorry,&quot;  he  says.  Then  he  leans  over  to  kiss  her.  They  have  been  friends  for  ten  years,  so  his  kiss  quiets  her.  She  stirs her  drink,  a  gin  drink,  a  summer  drink-though  it  is  a  week  past  New  Year's  and  bitter  outside.  When  she  looks  up,  he  is  watching  her.  &quot;May-  be  you  are  becoming  a  woman,&quot;  she  says.  She  shakes  her  head.  &quot;Men  don't  touch  women  like  that  anymore,  you  know,  not  good  men,  not  with  that  kind  of  ease.  They're  frightened  to  death,  I  think,  that  their  hand  on  a  woman's  arm,  even  at  the  small  of  her  back,  is  too  proprietary.  Women,  though,  can  touch  anything.  We've  never  owned  anything.  No  one  suspects  we  ever  will.&quot;  Dutton  watches  her  closely  as  she  talks.  She  can't  remember  his  ever  be-  ing  so  attentive  to  her.  It  makes  her  feel  odd,  guilty  of  something  unnamed.  &quot;I'm  forty-three  years  old,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Why  is  this  happening  to  me?&quot;  She  doesn't  tell  him  why  it's  happen-  ing,  because  he  knows.  He  is  in  love  with  a  twenty-year-old  girl-a  tall,  erotic  blonde  named  Serena.  Earlier,  on  the  train,  he  showed  Liza  her  pic-  ture.  &quot;She's  beautiful,  isn't  she?&quot;  he  said.  She  was.  She  was  like  a  figurine,  lean  and  muscled  in  a  skimpy  tank  top,     DECEMBER  18,  1989  curled  up  precisely  next  to  a  bare  radia-  tor.  The  radiator  was  white,  her  teeth  were  white,  the  sun  shone  through  the  undraped  window  behind  her  and  made  her  hair  glow  white.  Liza  could  see,  though,  the  tension  in  her  joints,  in  her  knees  and  curled  toes.  Taut  with  self-  consciousness,  her  head  inclined  to-  ward  the  camera  to  reveal  the  fine  line  of  her  cheekbone,  she  also  revealed  that  for  her  surfaces  mattered.  This  was  a  girl  for  whom  illusion  was  a  gift,  like  second  sight.  Lizagave  the  picture  back  to  him,  and  he  slipped  it  into  a  compartment  of  a  handsomely  stitched  and  supple  wal-  let.  Dutton  wore  stylish  clothes-ra-  zor-creased  pleated  pants,  a  loose  linen  shirt,  and  a  thin,  dark  tie.  He  combed  his  hair,  still  thick  and  brown,  straight  back  from  his  face,  which,  though  still  handsome,  told  the  truth:  he  was  forty-  three  years  old.  He  had  grown  too  tired  or  wise  to  lie.  This  is  what  Liza  ad-  mired  most  about  Dutton.  He  did  not  lie  anymore.  He  did  not  lie  to  women.  Over  the  years,  as  their  love  rear-  ranged  itself  into  a  kind  of  intimate  friendship,  Dutton  had  always  been  frankabout  some  loneliness  he  had,a  loneliness  that  sounded  distinctly  male,  a  loneliness  eased  only  by  wonderful  women,  he  said,  by  making  love  with  these  women.  &quot;You  know,&quot;  she  says  now,  &quot;when  I  saw  Serena's  picture  I  thought  of  what  old  men  always  say  when  they  see  a  picture  of  some  fresh  young  girl.  They  always  say,  'Well,  she's  gonna  break  a  lot  of  hearts,&quot;  and  then  everyone  feels  warm.  But  maybe  what  they  mean  is  some-  thing  more  serious  you  know,  like  what  old  generals  must  feel  when  they  review  ene-  my  troop  movements,  that  mixture  of  fear  and  hope  for  the  good  fight  and  then  the  disap-  pointment  of  their  own  distance  from  it.  Maybe  that's  what  they  mean.&quot;  (\xe2\x80\x98War.))  &quot;Maybe.  I  like  to  " b"hope  not,  but  probably  I  should  give  that  up.&quot;  &quot;I  think  so.  For  now,  anyway.  For  a  while.&quot;  He  puts  his  hand  over  hers  and  squeezes  it,  because  her  husband  is  also  in  love  with  a  twenty-year-old  girl-a  Japanese  girl,  new  tothis  country-  whom  her  husband  met  in  the  English  as  a  Second  Language  class  he  teaches.  Liza  has  never  seen  her  careful-  ly  posed  in  a  photo-  graph,  but  she  did  see  her  in  a  courtroom,  earlier  today,  during  the  pretrial  motions  for  Liza  and  her  husband's  divorce.  The  girl  sat  quietly  in  the  front  row  of  the  spectator  sec-  tion,  her  hands  crossed  over  a  tiny  straw  pock-  etbook  in  her  lap-a  small,  delicate  woman  with  eyes  as  dark  as  the  inside  of  a  chimney.  When  Liza  saw  her,  she  was  glad  Dutton  was  not  flying  in  until  the  night.  It  would  have  been  a  mistake  for  him  to  see  her  secrets  thisclearly.  She  wasn't  sure  she  could  bear  to  hear  him  speak  honestly  about  them.  Watching  the  girl,  Liza  believed  no  one  should  be  allowed  to  witness  di-  vorce  proceedings  but  the  unhappy,  fractious  principals,  all  of  whom  looked  equally  drawn,  humiliated,  worse  for  the  wear.  Even  the  wives  of  rich  men,  women  who  walked  to  the  bench  with  their  heads  high,chins  jutted  out,  pursuing  their  entitlement-even  they  lingered  a  bit  too  long  over  their  furs,  folding  them,  patting  them,  sometimes  stroking  them  during  a  long  delay  the  way  one  would  stroke  a  sleep-  ing  child.  In  the  courtroom,  Liza's  husband  fluttered  between  the  Japanese  girl  and  his  lawyer.  Once  he  stopped  to  crouch  in  front  of  the  girl,  to  take  her  small  hands  in  his,  as  he  explained  something  toher.  The  girl  did  not  speak.  She  seemed  to  communicate  by  lowering  her  eyes,  parting  her  lips.  She  looked  more  aggrieved,  more  a  victim,  than  any  of  the  others  in  the  courtroom,  and Liza,  watching  her,  felt  rage  throb  in  her  throat  and  limbs.  In  that  rage,  she  felt  huge,  ungainly,  American.  She  hardly  felt  like  a  woman  at  all,  and  that  was  a  problem,  she  knew.  Her  attorney  had  told  her  to  wear  something  femi-  nine  that  day-something  simple,  but  pretty;  no  severe  business  suit,  he'd  said  -because  her  husband  had  amended  his  petition.  Her  husband  had  decided  that  since  he  would  soon  be  remarried,  and  since  his  future  wife,  unlike  Liza,  would  be  a  full-time  homemaker,  he  had  grounds  to  pursue  the  sole  legal  custody  of  his  and  Liza's  three-year-  old  daughter.  &quot;Do  you  need  to  call  about  your  child?&quot;  Dutton  asks.  He  has  been  watching  her  again.  &quot;She's  with  them  this  weekend,&quot;  Liza  says,  looking  at  her  watch.  &quot;She's  sleeping  now.&quot;&quot;  She  arranges  the  folds  of  the  dress  she  chose  to  wear  that  morning-a  loose  emerald-green  dress  with  a  long,  flowing  skirt-and  then  she  looks  up  at  Dutton,  noticing  under  his  jaw  the  meticulous  razor  line  that  shapes  his  close-cut  beard.  &quot;Dutton,  I  don't  think  I'm  going  to  be  able  to  sleep  with  you  tonight.&quot;  He  squeezes  her  hand  again.  &quot;Really,&quot;  she  says.  He  lets  go  of  her  hand  but  leans  closer  to  her.  &quot;You're  talking  too  much,  Liza.  Terror  makes  you  talk  too  much.  You  shouldn't.  It  makes  up  your  mind  before  you  do.&quot;  Liza  looks  away  from  him,  out  over  the  bar.  This  is  an  odd  place  for  her  to  be.  Near  the  door,  a  ticker-tape  ma-  chine  reports  the  latest  sports  scores.  There  are  two  televisions-one  show-  ing  a  car  race,  the  other  a  basketball  game-and  scattered  everywhere  are  backgammon  and  chess  boards,  men  bent  over  them,  squinting.  Most  of  the  patrons  are  gathered  around  a  man  throwing  darts.  Liza  can  tell  by  the  man's  face  that  he  is  a  serious  dart  player  and  that  he  is  losing.  His  mouth  is  firm  and  his  eyes  are  clear  but  far-  away,  as  if  he's  looking  beyond  the  target  to  his  fate.  He  reminds  her  sud-  denly  of  a  boy  named  Bobby  she  loved  in  high  school,  a  boy  whose  mother  used  to  cry  every  night  on  thefront  stoop,  a  bottle  of  bourbon  tucked  be-  tween  her  ankles;  a  boy  whose  face  nearly  always  looked  like  that.  &quot;She  doesn't  talk  at  [REDACTED];  Liza  says,  " b"looking  back  at  Dutton.  &quot;He  told  me.  She  knows  maybe  thirteen  words  of  English.&quot;  Dutton  holds  up  his  empty  glass  to  signal  the  waiter.  &quot;''Thirteen  words,  maybe  twenty,&quot;  Liza  says.  &quot;Imagine.  What  could  they  be?&quot;  &quot;When  I  try  to  talk  to  Serena,  she  repeats  whatever  I  say.  I  say,  'I  love  you,'  and  she  says,  'You  love  me.'  Sometimes  it's  a  question.  Sometimes  it's  a  statement.  Is  that  mystery  or  is  that  incoherence?&quot;  &quot;I'm  not  sure.&quot;  Liza  looks  back  to  the  dart  player.  &quot;You're  finding  that  out,  I  think.&quot;  The  player  has  finished  his  game.  He  takes  some  folded  bills  out  of  a  shot  glass  and  slips  them  into  the  shirt  pocket  of  another  man,  then  picks  up  a  drink  and  walks  to  the  back  of  the  bar.  &quot;No.  Forget  I  said  that.  She's  twenty  years  old,  Dutton.  The  only  mystery  is  how  much  she  doesn't  know.&quot;  When  Liza  was  twenty  years  old,  she  didn't  know  anything.  One  day  out  of  the  blue  Bobby  showed  up  on  her  doorstep  holding  an  embroidered  pon-  cho  he'd  brought  back  from  Central  America,  where  he  had  been  in  the  Peace  Corps.  &quot;I  didn't  know  I  was  bringing  this  back  for  you,&quot;  he  told  her.  &quot;But  now  I  think  that  I  was.&quot;  She'd  been  intrigued  and  moved  by  the  way  those  words  sounded-so  honest  they  frightened  her.  She  made  love  to  Bobby  that  night-something  she'd  been  afraid  to  do  when  she  was  in  love  and  in  high  school.  That  night,  she  was  afraid  not  to.  The  foreign  intri-  cacy  of  sex  made  no  sense  to  her,  but  she  trusted  him.  She  had,  in  her  mind,  the  sound  of  him  telling  the  truth.  When  it  was  over,  he  took  her  face  in  his  hands.  She  knew  he  saw  confusion.  &quot;You  don't  have  to  worry,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'This  is  important.  This  matters.&quot;  &quot;You  know,  Dutton,&quot;  she  says  now,  &quot;I've  always  been  moved  by  the  way  people  in  love  talk  to  each  other.  Haven't  you?  How  can  a  man  love  a  woman  without  language?&quot;  &quot;You're  an  abstract  woman,  that's  why.&quot;  He  touches  her  hand  again  and  smiles.  &quot;You  talk  too  much.  I  told  you  that.&quot;  She  smiles  back  at  him.  &quot;A  lot  you  know.  You're  in  love  with  a  woman  who  repeats  whatever  you  say.&quot;  &quot;In  bed,  Liza,  people  don't  talk. She  takes  her  hand  out  of  his  then  and  looks  away  from  him.  Suddenly  tired,  she  wants  to  go  home.  She  wants  to  find  her  daughter,  carry  her  out  to  a  cab,  and  ride  the  familiar  road  home.  But  that's  impossible,  and  even  ifit  were  possible  it  would  not  ease  her.  The  familiar  haunts  her  now-braid-  ing  her  daughter's  hair,  stooping  to  tie  her  daughter's  shoe.  The  more  routine  the  gesture,  the  more  she  is  shaken  by  how  deeply  loss  could  touch  her.  That  is  why  she  asked  Dutton  to  come,  she  realizes,  because  he  is  not  a  part  of  her  jeopardy.  She  wants  to  believe  her  jeopardy  has  bounds,  that  there  is  some  part  of  her  life  that  cannot  be  touched.  Dutton  slides  his  chair  next  to  hers and  pulls  her  close,  closer  than  they  should  be  in  thefront  ofthis  bar.  She  shuts  her  eyes  and  feels  him  run  his  hand  along  the  underside  of  her  wrist.  It's  true;  his  touch  does  ease  her.  It  eases  her  as  much  as  anything  he'ssaid  tonight.  Maybe  this  is  what  terror  will  teach  her,  that  the  language  of  feeling  is  unspoken,  a  language  of  gesture,  of  limbs  and  organs.  She  opens  her  eyes,  looks  at  Dutton,  and  he  stops  touching  her.  Then  she  knows  that  still  she  wants  him  to  say  something.  &quot;Maybe  we  should  go  back  to  the  hotel.  You've  had  a  terrible  day.  You're  tired.  Sleep  next  to  me,  at  least.  I'll  hold  you.  Someone  should  hold  you.&quot;  &quot;Not  yet,  no.&quot;  She  looks  around  the  bar.  Men  are  laughing,  talking,  lean-  ing  back  in  their  chairs,  as  smooth  and  polished  as  a  roomful  of  actors.  &quot;We  should  have  dinner  or  something.  There's  a  restaurant  I  know  down  the  block.&quot;  HE  helps  her  on  with  her  coat  and  they  go.  At  the  door,  he  pulls  her  close  again,  under  his  arm.  Outside  the  night  is  cold.  Gusts  of  wind  off  the  lake  blow  snow  that  fell  that  morning  into  their  faces.  They  walk  along  the  build-  ing  to  the  end  of  the  block.  As  they  step  away  from  its  shelter  at  the  corner,  a  powerful  wind  hits  them  so  hard  that  " b"Liza  stumbles  on  the  step  down  to  the  street.  Dutton  catches  her  before  she  falls,  but  for  a  moment  the  ground  swirls  beneath  her  feet.  She  thinks  she  might  have  to  sit  down  on  the  curb.  Next  to  her,  Dutton  stands  quietly  in  the  cold,  his  hand  under  her  elbow.  She  looks  at  him,  and  then  he  puts  his  arms  around  her,  presses  her  head  tohis  shoulder.  &quot;I'm  all  right,&quot;  she  says  into  his  ear.  &quot;Really  I  am.  I'm  glad  you're  here,  Dutton.&quot;  He  relaxes  when  she  says  it,  then  pulls  her  closer,  and  she  thinks,  Words  do  ease  us.  They  com-  fort  us.  Maybe  they  protect  us  in  a  way,  rescue  us  from  the  agony  of  what  our  bodies  feel.  Down  the  block  the  place  Liza  knew  isn't  there  anymore,  and  so  they  go  into  a  Greek  restaurant  across  the  street-a  loud,  happy  place,  still  decorated  for  " b"the  holidays  with  tinsel  and  hanging  tissue-paper  stars.  A  slight  man  with  sleek,  dark  hair  motions  them  toward  a  cloakroom,  then  seats  them  in  a  corner  booth  near  the  bar.  Dutton  orders  bread  and  cheese  and  a  bottle  of  dry  white  wine,  which  Liza  drinks  slowly.  The  place  is  still  busy  with  a  few  large  parties  and  crisscross-  ing  waiters  carrying  plates  of  cheese,  which  they  flame  at  the  table  while  the  crowd  shouts,  &quot;Ope!&quot;  Liza  leans  into  Dutton's  shoulder  and  rests  her  head  against  the  back  of  the  booth.  The  wine  warms  her.  Dutton  eats  carefully,  with  one  hand,  so  she  won't  have  to  move.  He  brings  asmall  forkful  of  cheese  to  her  mouth,  but  she  refuses,  shaking  her  head,  raising  her  glass.  She  leans  deeper  into  his  shoulder  and  looks  across  the  restaurant  at  a  young  girl,  maybe  eleven  or  twelve,  with  shining  hair  and  eyes.  When  the  waiter  brings  a  platter  of  cheese,  her  parents  and  two  elderly  women  and  a  little  boy  who  might  be  her  brother     sing  &quot;Happy  Birthday&quot;  to  her.  Other  diners  turn,  the  girl  smiles,  and  the  waiter  lights  their  cheese  with  a  flour-  ish,  holding  it  high  above  the  table  for  an  instant  like  a  blessing.  In  the  next  moment,  the  tissue-paper  star  above  the  family  is  on  fire.  One  of  the  elderly  women  gives  out  a  strange  shrill  cry,  and  the  young  girl  looks  at  her  in  horror,  unaware  of  the  fire  over  her  head.  Her  father  sweeps  her  out  of  her  chair  and  toward  the  front  door  just  as  pieces  of  glowing  ash  flutter  down  on  their  table.  Most  of  the  diners  stand  silent,  holding  their  napkins.  A  few  back  away  from  a  small  trail  of  flame  that  travels  the  room  along  a  cr\xc3\xa9pe-paper  streamer.  Dutton  takes  Liza's  glass  out  of  her  hand,  but  they  sit  still  in  their  booth  as  the  waiter  who  had  lighted  the  cheese  stands  on  the  girl's  empty  chair,  bats  the  star  to  the  floor,  and  stomps  on  it.  Across  the  room,  another  waiter  does  the  same  with  the  cr\xc3\xa9pe-paper  streamer.  The  slight  man  who  met  Liza  and  Dutton  at  the  door  appears  from  the  kitchen  holding  a  fire  extinguisher.  He  smiles  when  he  sees  what  the  waiters  have  done.  &quot;Ope!&quot;  he  says,  raising  the  ex-  tinguisher.  &quot;Ope!&quot;  The  crowd  of  din-  ers  hesitates  a  moment,  then  begins  to  applaud.  Next  to  Dutton,  Liza  begins  to  cry.  &quot;Here,&quot;  Dutton  whispers,  taking  her  hand,  drawing  her  to  her  feet.  &quot;Come  here.&quot;  He  steers  her  between  tables  into  the  alcove  full  of  coats,  pushes  past  arack  of  them  to  a  private  corner.  &quot;Here,&quot;  he  says  again.  He  hands  her  his  handkerchief,  but  she's  notcrying  now,  her  tears  replaced  by  a  deep,  sorrowful  exhaustion.  She  leans  against  an  emergency  exit  and  feels  the  weather  outside,  stony  and  cold  against  her  back.  In  the  dark  of  the  alcove,  she  can't  see  Dutton's  expression,  but  she  knows  he  is  watching  her  again  with  that  acute  attention.  She  is  frightening  him.  She  should  say  something.  Before  she  can,  he  moves  closer,  presses  against  her,  his  warmth  and  yielding  weight  a  strange  contradiction  to  the  steel  door  behind  her.  He  touches  her  chin,  pushes  her  hair  behind  her  ear.  She  feels  his  breath,  light  and  alert,  on  her  neck.  He  draws  his  hands  down  her  shoulders  to  her  elbows  and  wrists  and  then  to  her  waist,  where  he  holds  her.  She  feels  then  what  Dutton  has  been  talking  about  all  these  years.  She  feels  the  exact  relief  of  his  hands.  Every  place  he  touches  is  a  place  where  her  sorrow  is  not.  For  a  moment,  she  is  happy.  She  puts  her  arms  around  him.  As  she  leans  into  him,  away  from  the  door,  she  feels  his  loneliness,  too.  In  the  curve  of  his  chest,  she  feels  herself  occupying  its  space.  Staring  over  his  shoulder,  she  knows  also,  suddenly  and  sadly,  that  it  will  return,  unchanged,  her  sorrow,  his  loneliness.  This  is  only  one  moment.  What  she  is  learning  under  his  hands  is  not  the  kind  of  knowledge  that  forms  a  path  in  the  mind;  it  won't  lead  her  anywhere.  She  stares  over  his  shoulder  at  the  darkest  corner  of  the  alcove,  at  the  two  walls  and  the  shadow  of  their  juncture.  &quot;I  love  you,  Dutton,&quot;  she  says  sud-  denly.  When  she  says  it,  she  doesn't  know  why  she  is  saying  it,  or  even  if  she's  lying,  but  he  pulls  her  closer,  he  clutches  her,  and  she  realizes  that  the  longing  for  a  woman  to  speak  these  words  to  him  has  provoked  much  of  his  life,  and  now,  at  least,  he  has  heard  them."