 b"Six hours ago Lonnie one last look  at  Grant,  at  the  oily  flow-  ered  curtains  and  the  kerosene  heater,  the  tangled  bed  and  the  chipped  white  stove,  at  the  very  lightof  the  place  that  was  dim  no  matter  how  bright  and  was  unlike  any  light  she'd  ever  known  before,  and  she  ran.  She  ran  from  thatsingle  weathered  dot  on  the  plains  because  thebabiesthat  kept  coming  out  of  her  were  not  going  to  stop,  a  new  one  was  just  beginning  and  she  could  already  feel  the  suckling  on  her  breast.  Soon  she  will  cross  into  [REDACTED],  or  [REDACTED],  or  [REDACTED];  she's  just  driving  and  it  doesn't  really  matter  to  her  where,  because  she  is  never  coming  back.  Grant  sits  in  the  darkened  parlor  room,  still  and  silent.  He's  only  twenty-nine,  but  he's  got  four  children.  It's  five-thirty,  maybe  six,  in  the  morning.  He's  in  his  Jockeys,  and  his  long  legs  and  arms  are  brushed  with  the  white  of  his  blond  hair.  He  feels  as  if  the  roof  of  his  house  has  been  lifted,  as  if  he's  being  stalked  by  a  drafting  eagle  high  above.  Straight  ahead  of  him  on  the  other  wall,  above  the  sofa and  framed  in  weathered  board,  is  a  picture  of  mountains,  of  Glacier  Park,  but  Grant  isn't  looking  at  the  picture;  it  was  Lonnie's.  He  is  listening  to  the  sound  of  the  grass,  a  hum  of  voices,  millions  of  souls,  like  locusts.  Outside  there  is  apurple  dawn  over  the  yellow  land,  reaching  toward  this  single  house,  and  a  clothesline  pole  standing  outside  casts  a  long,  heaving  shadow.  There  is  a  worn  lawn  between  the  house  and  garage,  and  beyond  that  in  the  rise  and  fall  of  Haakon  County  there  is  nothing,  but  still  always  some-  thing,  maybe  just  a  pheasant  or  prong-  horn,  or  maybe  something  you  don't  want  tostare  hard  enough  to  find;  it's  like  swimming  in  the  river  and  looking  straight  down  into  the  deep.  Grant  shifts  his  weight  off  the  thigh  that's  fallen  asleep  on  the  wooden  edge  of  his  sagging  easy  chair.  He's  got  his  twenty-gauge  bird  gun  at  his  side,  but  it  isn't  loaded,  it's  justthere.  The  grass  tells  him  to  forget  her,  Forget  Lonnie  the  Whore.  There  is  a  sigh  from  the  kids'  bedroom,  a  sigh  and  a  rustle.  Through  the  half-opened  door  of  his  bedroom  Grant  can  see  the  tangled sheets  where  she  stopped  him  last  night  a  few  inches  away,  left  him  hunched  over  an  erection  dying  in  its  rubber  sheath,  a  precaution  taken  too  late  and  too  sporadically  to  save  her.  The  white  dresser  on  the  far  side  is  now  empty,  the  small  bottles  and  pink  boxes  swept  off  the  top  into  a  duffelbag  that  she  shut  with  a  loudsnap  from  the  clasp.  Grant  had  watched  from  the  chair,  and  his  mouth  had  settled  open.  Lon-  nie  the  Whore,  sings  the  grass,  and  Grant  cannot  resist  the  song  even  though  he  knows  she's  never  been  un-  faithful.  The  kids'  door  opens  and  five-year-  old  Scott  comes  out,  sees  Grant,  comes  over  and  stands  at  his  father's  side  for  a  minute  or  two,  until  he  understands  there  will  be  no  response.  He  goes  off  to  the  kitchen  hoping  tofind  his  mother,  and  does  not  come  back.  Grant  hears  the  rest  of  them  stirring,  but  he  can-  not  help  them,  he's  not  sitting  there.  He's  out  on  the  plains,  swooping  low  over  a  pack  of  coydogs,  looking  for  the  bitch  Lonnie;  he's  upon  the  light-brown  waters  of  the  Cheyenne,  waist-deep  and  getting  ready  to  launch  out  naked  into  the  passing  root  clumps  and  cedar  hulks.  He's  standing  on  a  four-corners  in  the  middle  of  the  grass,  underneath  the  solid  dome  of  silver  sky,  and  he  feels  the  hills  dark  in  the  west,  and  he  knows  that  is  where  she's  headed.  Grant  looks  at  Leila,  his  oldest;  she's  eight,  sandy  and  freckled,  already  al-  most  as  tall  as  her  mother.  Grant  un-  derstands  that  she  has  been  talking  to  him,  remembers  that  she  has  just  said  they  are  out  of  milk,  Dad,  the  kidsare  hungry.  In  the  kitchen  the  baby  wails  as  he  is  passed  around;  the  sun  is  now  high  outside,  dropping  across  the  draped  window  casings.  Grant  cannot  answer,  even  though  he  knows  she  is  very  frightened  and  wants  to  know  what  is  happening  and  where  her  mother  has  gone.  After  a  while,  Leila  shrugs  bravely  and  says,  &quot;I'm  takin'  us  to  Mueller's.&quot;  He  looks  through  the  window  and  watches  as  they  settle  the  baby  in  his  stroller,  Scott  holding  his  bear,  and  the  four  of  them  head  down  the  shoulder,  clumped  together  like  the  grass.  Grant's  open  mouth  is  caked,  his  lips  tight,  his  teeth  glazed  like  china;  he  feels  as  if  he's  got  no  defense  against  the  hot  air,  as  if  his  mouth  and  nose  are  " b"just  holes  in  his  skull.  He  moves  finally  because  his  bladder  is  full,  has  been  full  for  hours,  but  he's  afraid  to  stand  up  because  of  what  she  might  have  taken  away:  she's  hollowed  him  out  from  the  very  point  of  his  penis  right  up  into  the  hard  knot  of  his  gut.  It's  noon  now,  twelve  hours  since  she  backed  the  old  Buick  out  onto  the  county  road.  She's  a  small  woman,  she's  thin  and  taut;  pregnancies  have  made  her  stomach  wiry,  not  loose,  but  wiry  like  long  scars.  She's  a  fine-looking  wom-  an,  but  her  teeth  aren't  good.  The  big  car  makes  her  look  foolish,  but  there's  no  room  for  him  as  she  throws  it  into  reverse.  She  is  crying  the  whole  time,  but  she's  also  gone.  Her  breath  is  always  stale  from  smoking,  and  when  she's  in  Philip  she  goes  to  her  friend  Martha's  room  and  they  drink  Canadian  Club.  She  has  a  good  time,  butshe  comes  back  just  the  same.  She's  sleeping  somewhere  now,  maybe  at  a  scenic  turnoff  with  the  doors  locked,  or  maybe  she's  driven  down  into  a  creek  hollow  where  there  are  trailers  beached  like  rafts  on  washed  stones.  Maybe  while  she  sleeps  there  will  be  a  flood  of  yellow  waters  under  a  cracked  sky.  Grant  is  back  in  his  chair,  but  now  he's  thinking  about  his  dead  father,  and  before  long  Grant  sees  him.  The  whole  room  smells  like  him,  of  the  cold  cattle  blood  he  brought  home  under  his  fingernails  every  day  from  the  yards,  ten  crescents  of  decay.  He's  wearing  his  overalls,  worn  to  the  white  warp  every-  where  but  the  pencil  pocket.  His  neck  is  long,  and  bunches  into  dark  sinews  as  it  slides  into  his  shirt.  He  walked  five  hundred  miles  in  the  furrows  before  he  was  fifteen.  They  changed  teams  at  either  end,  but  the  boy  held  the  reins  all  day  and  he  walked  alone  so  long  that  he  learned  to  hear  the  voices  in  the  ripping  sound  of  parting  roots;  he  walked  in  the  furrows  so  much  as  a  child  that  he  tripped  on  smooth  floors  as  a  grown  man,  even  years  after  the  farm  was  lost.Seems  to  me,  boy,  you  got  some  things  to  attend  to.  Grant  nods;  he'll  do  anything  not  to  meet  that  gaze  of  the  father  he  loved.  When  he  seemed  beaten  by  life  and  by  cancer,  his  look  burned  with  the  coal  fires  of  the  other  side,  as  if  he'd  been  there  before,  and  would  come  back  again.  Grant  would  do  anything  to  finish  it,  to  be  done  with  him  for  good.  How  long  can  you  last  out  here  like  this?  A  couple  of  days?  A  week?  He  gets  up  finally  and  looks  at  his  watch  for  the  first  time  of  the  day;  it's  almost  three.  He's  hungry,  and  he  goes  into  the  kitchen  and  tries  to  find  some-  thing  to  eat-not  just  something,  but  something  good  to  eat.  There's  noth-  ing-just  some  American  chop  suey  left  over  from  the  night  before,  a  few  hours  before  she  opened  her  thighs  for  him  and  then  stopped  him  and  then  was  gone.  He  steps  through  the  back  door  and  out  into  the  dusty  yard.  He  doesn't  know  who  owns  this  place  or  any  of  the  land  around  it;  the  owner  probably  doesn't  know  he  owns  the  place;  Grant  sends  his  rent  to  a  lawyer  in  Pierre.  It  doesn't  matter,  the  place  is  Grant's,  and  could  have  been  al-  ways,  but  Lonnie  missed  the  birds  out  here,  that's  what  she  said.  She  missed  the  sound  of  people  just  passing  the  time.  He  goes  back  inside  to  the  bedroom,  gets  dressed,  and  then  walks  back  out-  side  to  his  truck.  He  pulls  around  half-  way  into  the  garage,  and  then  crawls  under  the  camper  top  to  off-load  his  welder  and  his  tools.  He  brings  one  of  the  mattresses  from  the  kids'  room  and  lays  it  out  in  the  bed  of  the  truck,  and  follows  with  a  pile  of  blankets  and  pillows.  He  makes  up  a  box  of  canned  food  and  juice  from  the  pantry  and  throws  in  a  handful  of  knives  and  forks.  He  doesn't  really  know  what  clothes  the  kids  wear,  but  he  does  the  best  he  can,  stuffing  four  shopping  sacks.  He  gets  his  razor.  He  gets  his  gun.  He  takes  one  last  look  around  the  house  and  then  drives  off.  MUELLER\xe2\x80\x99S  is  about  two  miles  down  the  road,  in  a  hollow  that  shields  the  place  from  the  worst  of  the  winds  but  gathers  the  frost  like  low  fog.  It's  a  big  house,  two  floors  and  a  porch,  built  by  a  farmer  back  when  it  was  thought  bluestem  grass  could  survive  the  win-  ter.  Grant  drives  up  and  Tillie  meets  " b"him  on  the  porch.  &quot;They're  havin'  supper,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;I'm  leaving  Leila  with  you.&quot;  &quot;I  cain't  take  no  babies,&quot;  says  Tillie.  She's  not  as  old  as  she  thinks,  but  she's  telling  the  truth.  &quot;That  ain't  the  plan,&quot;  Grant  an-  swers.  &quot;Just  my  oldest.&quot;  Tillie  nods  and  the  flesh  bunches  around  her  chin;  she's  gotten  fat  out  here;  that's  what  happens  to  good  women  when  the  kids  are  grown-they  just  keep  cooking  the  same  as  before.  &quot;I'll  explain  myself  to  Hans,&quot;  he  adds.  Grant  waits  on  the  porch.  He  listens  tohis  children  finishing  their  supper  and  tells  himself  he's  got  nothing  to  be  ashamed  of.  &quot;Evening,  Grant,&quot;  says  Hans,  pass-  ing  him  a  bottle  of  his  best  ale.  Grant  takes  it,  and  takes  the  plate  of  pork  chops  that  Tillie  brings  out  to  him.  They  sit  on  the  porch;  it's  good  to  the  west,  clear  and  bright.  &quot;I  need  a  hundred,  Hans,&quot;  says  Grant.  Hans  goes  back  into  the  house  and  brings  back  three  hundred.  It's  not  kindness,  it's  just  what  it  takes.  Inside,  Tillie  is  running  a  bath.  'This  happens  out  here,&quot;  says  Hans.  &quot;Sometimes  the  women  can't  see  be-  yond  the  day-to-day.  I  can't  tell  you  why.&quot;  Leila  comes  out  to  the  porch;  she's  got  too  much  burden  on  her  just  now  to  cry  or  be  frightened.  &quot;Tillie  wants  to  know  if  you  want  them  in  p.j.s,&quot;  she  says,  and  Grant  nods.  Grant  sees  Tillie  walking  over  to  the  truck  from  the  back  door,  and  watches  as  she  gathers  the  four  sacks  of  clothes  and  carries  them  back  to  the  house.  She's  getting  a  limp  and  Grant  knows  it's  her  hip,just  like  his  mother.  He  hears  the  washing  machine  start  up,  and  sits  while  Hans  smokes  his  pipe,  and  then  hears  the  clanking  of  overall  buckles  in  the  dryer.  Pete  and  Scott  come  out,  and  they're  excited  about  sleeping  on  a  mattress  under  the  pickup  cover.  Scott  has  his  Teddy  bear,  and  he's  telling  Teddy  all  about  it,  about  how  maybe  they're  going  to  Dis-  neyland,  which  makes  Grant  think  he  may  cry  yet  in  front  of  Hans.  Instead,  it's  Tillie,  on  the  lawn,  who  brings  a  Kleenex  to  her  eyes,  and  she  draws  Leila  back,  right  under  her  bosom,  and  crosses  the  loose  flesh  of  her  biceps  over  the  girl's  soft  cheeks.  The  baby  is running  hard  back  and  forth  over  the  lawn,  and  each  time  he  makes  a  circuit  he  pats  one  of  the  truck  wheels.  &quot;My  turk,&quot;  he  says.  Leila  helps  them  pack  the  clothes  up  again,  and  Hans  brings  his  Coleman  stove  from  the  barn.  They  getthe  baby  into  the  car  seat  in  front,  and  the  two  big  boys  onto  the  mattress.  Grant  hugs  Leila,  but  she's  too  brittle  to  let  herself  bend  and  she  knows  it,  even  though  Grant's  been  good  to  her  and  will  always  be.  He  starts  the  truck  up  and  sees  Hans  listeningcarefully  at  the  engine  until  he's  sure  he  likes  what  he  hears,  because  everything  has  to  be  smooth  out  here.  &quot;Sometimes,&quot;  says  Tillie,  &quot;God  just  wants  to  make  sure  He's  got  your  at-  tention,  is  all.&quot;  Grant  nods  and  backs  out.  It's  a  clear  night,  but  there's  enough  rain  in  the  sky  to  bring  out  the  musty  acid  of  the  grass.  It's  sharp  on  his  nostrils,  but  clean;  he  thinks  he  can  trust  it.  He  turns  for  [REDACTED],  even  though  the  hunter  in  him  shouts,  Why  ere  you  going  south?  She  went  west;  she's  try-  ing  to  outrun  us  to  the  mountains.  Grant  looks  back  through  the  sliding  door  into  the  camper;  the  two  are     asleep  now.  It's  in  their  blood  to  feel  comfortable  on  the  road,  like  Grant's  great-grandfather,  who  left  his  first,  maybe  even  his  second,  family  and  jumped  off  from  St.  Louis  and  went  all  the  way  to  the  Pacific  before  he  turned  around  back  to  [REDACTED].  He  arrived  in  time  to  gather  in  the  farms  the  first  wave  had  won  and  lost,  the  wives  mad,  the  husbands  strangled  with  worry,  the  children  sick  and  ancient.  Grant  is  tired  but  the  baby  is  alert  in  his  car  seat,  his  large  blue  eyes  shiny.  &quot;See  big  turk,&quot;  he  says  asa  triple  rig  blows  past.  They've  come  down  the  interstate  to  Murdo,  and  are  now  head-  ing  south  again  toward  Rosebud.  Grant  doesn't  want  to  camp  in  the  reservation;  he's  hoping  to  get  across  the  border  and  stop  outside  Valentine.  He's  nodding  a  little,  so  he  says,  &quot;Lots  of  fun,&quot;  to  the  baby.  &quot;See  Auntie  Gay.&quot;  &quot;See  Mommy.&quot;  &quot;Well,  that's  the  thing,&quot;  he  an-  swers,  and  he  realizes  he  hasn't,  in  all  this  time,  really  thought  about  Aer,  about  Lonnie.  He  can't  start  now;  he  can't  think  of  the  sharp  line  of  her  chin,  or  her  easy  laugh  in  bed.  The  baby  is  asleep  now,  his  lower  lip  cupped  open  like  a  little  spoon.  Grant  crosses  the  [REDACTED]  line,  and  he  pulls  over  into  the  first  creek  bottom  he  finds.  He  finds  a  level  place  to  park  under  the  steep  sides  of  a  sand  hill,  and  carries  the  sleeping  baby  around  to  the  back.  He  pushes  Scott  and  Pete  to  one  side,  takes  a  moment  to  piss,  and  crawls  in  beside  them.  He  can  feel  their  three  hot  bod-  ies,  Grant  and  his  boys  curled  together.  He  doesn't  know  if  this  will  ever  hap-  pen  again,  or  what  will  see  him  " b"through  the  next  few  days,  or  whether  his  family  will  ever  again  be  whole.  EVERYONE  wakes  cry-  ing,  even  Grant.  The  baby  is  soaked,  and  the  air  in  the  camper  is  strong  with  the  smell  of  urine  and  shit.  Scott  is  whimpering  for  Mommy.  Grant  sets  up  the  Coleman  stove  and  starts  to  warm  up  two  cans  of  corned-beef  hash,  and  Pete  says,  &quot;Where's  the  ketchup?  We  always  have  ketchup.&quot;  &quot;'There  ain't  no  ketchup,&quot;  says  Grant.  &quot;I  don't  want  to  be  here,&quot;  the  boy  whines,  and  that  starts  another  round  of  tears  from  the  other  kids.  &quot;I  want  to  go  home.&quot;  They  eat,  even  without  ketchup,  and  that  makes  ev-  erybody  feel  better.  Grant  sends  Scott  and  Pete  off  to  the  small  creek  to  rinse  the  dishes  and  the  frying  pan,  and  when  they  come  back  he  leads  them  off  a  bit  behind  an  out-  cropping  of  sandstone  and  tells  them  to  squat  and  poop.  They  think  this  is  funny,  and  so  does  the  baby,  who  joins  them  in  the  line  and  pretends  to  push  as  the  other  two  drop  hot  brown  fruit  onto  the  dry  soil.  They're  back  on  the  road,  all  four  of  them  in  the  cab,  a  few  minutes  later,  driving  down  the  wide  main  strip  of  Valentine,  a  big  city  in  the  boys'  eyes.  They  turn  east,  through  Brown  County,  then  Rock,  and  Holt.  There  are  so  many  cars  and  trucks  on  the  road  that  the  baby  kicks  his  feet  with  excite,  ment;  the  boys  keep  asking  him  what  color  they  are  and  he  says  red,  and  they  laugh.  There  are  so  many  pheas-  ants  along  the  road  that  Grant  thinks  for  a  moment  of  his  shotgun,  almost  as  if  this  were  the  hunting  trip  he'd  al-  ways  planned  to  take  when  they  got  older.  They  pick  up  the  Elkhorn  River  at  Stuart  and  follow  it  down  into  O'Neill,  where  they  stop  and  eat  at  McDon-  ald's.  It's  as  good  as  [REDACTED]  for  the  boys;  they  each  come  out  holding  the  plastic  sand  buckets  and  toys  that  came  with  the  Happy  Meals;  by  now  they've  figured  out  they're  going  to  Grand-  ma's.  Grant  wants  to  tell  them  what  his  father  said  years  ago:  these  places  suck  the  spirit  right  out  of  you.  Grant  was  an  eager  boy  then,  but  he  knew  his  father  was  telling  him  this  because  they'd  lost  the  ranch  and  now  they  were  moving  back  to  live  with  his  mother's  family.  It's  Grant's  sister  [REDACTED]  who  comes  to  the  door  when  he  rings,  and  she  tries  not  to  look  surprised.  His  ma  used  to  say  to  him,  &quot;It  ain't  Gennie's  fault  she  was  born  without  the  gift  of  laughter.&quot;  She's  so  slow  unlatching  the  screen  that  Grant  thinks  maybe  she  isn't  going  to,  but  Scott  and  Pete  have  already  run  around  to  the  tire  swing  they  remembered  in  back,  and  it's  just  Grant,  holding  the  baby.  &quot;We  didn't  hear  about  this  new  one,&quot;  she  says.  She  doesn't  ask  about  Lonnie;  just  the  sight  of  Grant  tending  the  youngest  tells  her  she  isn't  with  them.  &quot;I'm  leaving  the  kids  here  for  a  few  days.&quot;  Grant  knows  she's  about  to  say  he  can't  leave  no  baby  with  them,  but  just  then  his  ma  comes  around  the  corner,  pushing  her  walker.  She's  shrinking,  as  if  she's  just  folding  together  through  her  disintegrating  hips,  but  she's  tough;  she's  sheltered  [REDACTED]  all  these  years.  Grant  leans  down  to  give  her  a  kiss,  and  she  smells  like  ashes.  &quot;Where's  Lonnie?&quot;  she  asks.  \xc2\xabShe's  left  me.  I'm  taking  the  baby  to  Gay's,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;'That  ain't  going  to  work,&quot;  his  ma  answers.  &quot;&quot;She's  alone  now,  too.&quot;  The  baby  squirms  in  his  arms,  and  finally  works  himself  upside  down,  reaching  for  the  floor.  &quot;Put  himdown,&quot;  his  ma  says.  'There's  no  fire  in  the  stove.  No  one  delivers  coal  anymore.&quot;  The  baby  comes  over  to  the  walker  and  slams  his  small  hand  on  the  tubing,  and  then  starts  to  climb.  His  ma  brightens,  but  this  gives  Ge-  neva  her  chance.  &quot;We  can't  keep  no  baby.&quot;  Grant  goes  out  to  the  truck  and  brings  back  two  of  the  remaining  three  bags  of  clothes.  They  still  smell  fresh  from  Tillie's  dryer,  all  folded  and  carefully  placed,  even  though  they've  been  knocked  around  some.  He  looks  to  either  side,  at  the  other  green  lawns  and  pleasant  houses  on  this  quiet,  tree-  lined  street.  He  doesn't  know  how  his  " b"ma  did  this,  how  she  kept  the  house  after  the  meat-packing  plant  was  locked  one  night  without  word  from  the  owners.  Two  days  earlier  the  steers  had  stopped  coming  in,  and  when  the  men  had  split  and  carved  their  way  through  the  emptying  stockyards  there  was  nothing  more  to  kill.  Grant  takes  a  nap  in  the  back  room,  the  vacant  sleep  of  townspeople;  his  dreams  are  wild  but  they  don't  mean  anything.  He  wakes  drugged  but  rested,  and  he  eats  supper  with  his  ma  while  [REDACTED]  get  things  ready  for  the  boys  to  stay.  &quot;Go  home,  Grant,&quot;  says  his  ma.  &quot;Go  home  and  wait.  You  can't  take  the  baby  with  you.  Gay  can't  and  Gennie  won't  keep  him.&quot;  He  knows  she's  right.  He  can't  take  his  baby  withhim,  but  he  can't  wait  either,  because  there  is  another  baby  that  will  need  him  when  he  finds  Lon-  nie,  a  baby  that  may  have  todie  any-  way,  but  will  most  certainly  not  live  if  he  waits  for  her  at  home.  He  says  his  goodbyes  to  the  boys  and  gives  [REDACTED]  fifty  dollars.  His  ma  works  her  way  out  to  the  truck  and  watches  him  put  the  baby  back  into  the  car  seat.  She's  standing  there  as  he  drives  away,  with  the  baby  waving  both  hands,  fingers  straight  out  and  spread  like  two  small  propellers.  &quot;Bye-bye,&quot;  he  sings.  &quot;Bye-  bye.&quot;  HEY'RE  back  out  into  the  farm-  land  in  a  few  minutes,  retracing  their  way  toward  Valentine.  Grant  is  still  fevered  from  his  nap,  and  even  though  he  keeps  shaking  his  head  and  has  the  windows  wide  open  to  the  chilly  air,  his  eyes  feel  puffy  and  heated.  The  baby  is  content  to  ride  high  in  his  car  seat,  looking  around  at  the  land  as  they  begin  to  roll  into  the  sand  hills.  Grant  doesn't  know  how  he's  going  to  work  this:  when  he  finds  Lonnie  she'll  see  the  baby  and  that  may  be  the  end  of  it  right  there,  because  two  hours  before  she  left,  the  baby  had  brought  her  to  tears,  had  finally  made  her  understand  that  never  again  in  her  whole  life  would  something  happen  easy,  that  she  would  forever  be  fighting  just  to  get  through  the  day.  And  Grant  had  tried  to  comfort  her,  first  with  love,  and  then  sympathy,  and  then  passion,  and  it  had  not  worked.  &quot;Piece  of  milk,&quot;  the  baby  sings.  Ev-  erything  from  him  is  melody. Grant  reaches  down  for  one  of  the  bottles  he  filled  at  his  ma's.  &quot;No  one  wants  you,&quot;  he  says  to  the  baby.  &quot;O-kay,&quot;  he  sings  back  unblem-  ished.  &quot;No  one  but  me,&quot;  says  Grant  finally,  and  he  gives  him  one  of  his  large  round  fingers  to  hold,  and  the  baby  drinks  his  bottle  and  falls  asleep  like  that.  When  Grant  gasses  the  truck  in  Valentine  he  puts  him  in  back.  The  little  warm  head  rolls  into  the  soft  of  Grant's  neck;  there's  a  firmness  about  the  baby's  body,  an  energy  even  when  so  completely  at  rest.  This  time  Grant  remembers  to  put  on  a  dry  Pamper,  and  then  checks  to  make  sure  the  screens  on  the  sliding  windows  are  strong  and  secure,  and  locksthe  tailgate  from  outside.  It's  two  in  the  morning  when  he  crosses  back  into  South  Dakota.  The  grass  doesn't  speak  to  him  anymore;  Grant's  at  peace  in  the  cab  with  his  sleeping  baby  behind  him.  He  knows  Lonnie  can  be  saved,  he  knows  this  now,  for  the  first  time,  as  he  and  the  baby  dart  back  across  the  Rosebud  Res-  ervation.  He  sees  the  contempt  that  comes  to  his  sister  [REDACTED]'s  eyes  when  she  thinks  of  Lonnie,  and  he  knows  why  he  loves  Lonnie-  because  she's  chosen  the  living,  the  light.  She's  not  a  whore,  she  did  not  become  a  whore  on  the  plains;  she  became  a  mother.  And  she  was  not  a  whore  when  they  met,  in  Pierre-just  a  nineteen-  year-old  who  had  enough  fire  and  humor  not  to  panic  when  she  was  dropped  by  her  boyfriend  hundreds  of  miles  from  home.  Grant  was  twenty:  what  differ-  ence  did  it  make  that  they  left  the  Elkhorn  Bar  an  hour  later  and  he  wasn't  even  trying  to  cover  up  the  erection  stretching  his  jeans?  What  difference  did  it  make  that  she  was  pregnant  with  Leila  when  they  got  married  in  the  Gem  Theatre?  After  the  cer-  emony,  if  he  wanted  to  call  it  that,  they  went  to  Marston's  store  and  were  invited  to  pick  a  few  things  off  the  shelf,  free,  and  all  Lonnie  wanted  was  a  giant-  sized  box  of  Pampers.  Grant  pulls  over  finally  behind  the  fairgrounds  in  White  River,  and  wakes  up  the  next  morning  to  the  baby's  big  grinning  face.  &quot;Daddy,  Dad-dee,&quot;  he  says,  " b"pounding  on  Grant's  back.  They  stop  at  a  caf\xc3\xa9  for  breakfast-he  doesn't  have  enough  time  now  to  cook  out-and  Grant  feels  a  lit-  tle  funny  there  with  the  baby  among  the  farmers  and  the  road  crew,  as  if  they  thought  he  was  half  man,  and  it  hasn't  really  occurred  to  him  he'll  need  to  bring  or  ask  for  some  kind  of  specialseatfor  him.  But  the  waitress  is  older  than  she  looks;  she  gives  the  baby  a  handful  of  coffee  stirrers  to  play  with,  and  they  are  back  on  the  road  fast  and  up  on  the  interstate  by  ten,  heading  west.  He  hopes  to  make  Sher-  idan  by  midafternoon,  then  up  into  the  Bighorn  and  through  the  Crow  Reser-  vation  before  he  sleeps  again.  In  front  of  them  the  grassland  buckles  and  slides,  building  for  the  Black  Hills.  The  baby  gets  restless  and  starts  to  cry,  and  then  to  scream,  and  Grant  lets  him  out  of  the  harness.  It's  the  tourist  route,  and  there  are  billboards  for  Wall  Drug  and  Reptile  Gardens  and  exit  signs  for  the  Badlands  and  43616e616461Rush-  more.  He  knows  she's  been  this  way,  he  knew  it  before  he  started,  but  now  he  feels  it.  They're  in  [REDACTED],  coming  first  into  Beulah  and  now  into  Sundance.  Grant  wonders  what  the  people  who  started  this  town  were  thinking  of  when  they  named  it  Sundance.  He  knows  what  it  stands  for:  he's  heard  the  stories  about  ghost  dancing  and  the  sun  dance,  about  men  stitched  to  buf-  falo  bones  with  pegs  through  their  breasts.  He  knows  what  it  stands  for,  but  he  doesn't  know  what  it  means;  no  one  does,  maybe  not  even  the  Indians,  maybe  not  even  the  Indians  who  danced.  It  was  something  for  the  spirit,  not  the  body;  it  was  too  powerful,  and  forbidden,  nothing  likethis  town  that  is  so  quiet  a  generation  could  live  and  die  before  anyone  noticed.  He  has  to  stop  a  few  times  at  rest  areas  to  let  the  baby  run  around,  and  at  Gillette  he  buys  a  grab  bag  full  of  small  toys,  and  a  long  tube  of  Dixie  cups  that  he  hands  back  one  by  one  through  the  window  for  two  hours  until  the  whole  camper  is  covered  with  them.  &quot;  'Nother  cup!&quot;  squeals  the  baby  with  delight  and  surprise  each  time.  Grant  has  begun  to  catch  the  rhythm  of  the  two-year-old.  He  wisheshe  didn't  have  the  baby  with  him  for  this  last  dash  to  the  moun-  tains,  but  as  long  ashe's  got  him  he's  grateful  for  the  company,  for  a  pal.  Grant's  got  his  friends  stretched  across  the  plains:  they'll  never  leave  the  plains.  But  maybe  he's  never  had  a  buddy,  and  maybe  he's  never  guessed  that  a  baby  could  be  a  buddy,  willing  and  cheerful  to  go  along,  always  sur-  prised  by  events.  The  land  is  getting  drier,  baked  hotter  over  the  shining  stones  and  the  white  rim  of  alkali  at  the  waterlines.  Lonnie  is  headed  for  the  mountains,  just  the  way  the  wagon  trains  yearned  for  the  mountains  ahead  of  them,  no  one  worrying  about  snow  in  the  high  passes.  Nothing  wasmore  foreign  to  them  than  the  plains.  At  night,  the  Lutherans,  Calvinists,  and  Methodists  sang  their  hymns  and  hoped  the  sounds  carried  beyond  the  glow  of  the  campfires.  They  knew  they  wereup  against  something  on  the  plains.  He  drives  past  a  car  wreck  and  it's  a  terrible  one,  two  bodies  laid  out  under  tar-  paulins,  casualties  on  the  way  to  the  Bighorn.  This  is  how  it  was  told  to  him,  like  every  schoolchild,  that  Custer  would  be  alive  today  if  he  had  stayed  in  South  Dakota,  but  he  was  teased  deep-  er  and  deeper  into  the  grass.  And  it  was  the  same  for  Lewis  and  Clark,  led  by  the  trapper  Charbonneau,  but  they  had  a  girl  with  them,  an  Indian  girl,  a  sign  of  love  and  the  promise  of  a  gift,  because  she  was  pregnant-just  like  Lonnie.  In  Sheridan,  a  long  hot  strip,  they  stop  and  he  buys  them  a  meatloaf-and-  gravy  supper  at  a  caf\xc3\xa9  and  then  gives  the  baby  a  bath  in  the  men's-room  sink  of  agas  station  next  door.  Grant  has  never  before  seen  how  that  skin  shines  like  silk;  he  traces  a  line  down  the  flexing  back  and  it  feels  like  powder.  Grant  uses  every  muscle  and  nerve  ending  in  his  own  body,  as  if  keeping  the  baby  from  falling  is  the  one  job  in  his  whole  life  that  truly  matters.  He's  towelling  him  off  on  the  curb  outside  when  he  breaks  away,naked  and  round-bellied,  to  the  front,  and  three  " b"high-school  girls  who  are  gassing  a  big  new  Pontiac  catch  him  and  bring  him  back,.  All  three  area  little  too  heavy,  and  Grant  thinks  of  them  as  pregnant.  They're  giggling  with  the  baby  and  he's  giggling  back,  but  when  they  try  to  flirt  with  Grant  they  read  something  on  his  face  that  chills  their  laughter,  and  they  hand  the  babyback  to  him  and  leave  fast.  That  night  Grant  and  the  baby  sleep  in  [REDACTED]  under  a  few  cottonwoods  that  have  found  water  somewhere  deep.  He's  so  tired  when  they  pull  in  he  doesn't  notice  a  small  house  not  much  more  than  a  hundred  yards  away.  In  the  low  yellow  light  of  morning  an  elderly  Indian  couple  appear  at  his  side,  just  as  he  and  the  baby  are  finish-  ing  breakfast.  He's  made  a  kind  of  high  chair  out  of  rocks  with  a  scrap  ofsheet  iron  as  a  table.  The  Indians  don't  say  anything,  and  Grant  guesses  this  means  they're  still  inside  the  reser-  vation.  Off  in  the  distance  a  dove  is  cooing  and  there  is  a  flapping  of  laundry  in  the  very  slight  breeze.  It's  a  little  chilly  and  Grant  has  on  a  sweatshirt,  but  the  Indians  are  bundled  up  as  if  for  winter,  the  man  in  an  orange  nylon  parka  shiny  with  dirt,  and  the  woman  in  a  heavy  blanket  jacket  over  jeans.  Grant  wonders  why  they're  out  at  this  early  hour,  but  he  straightens  from  his  kneeling  position  infront  of  the  baby  when  he  notices  them,  and  goes  over  to  join  the  man  at  the  truck  while  the  woman  comes  over  to  the  baby.  The  old  man  points  with  a  stubby  damaged  finger  toward  the  baby;  the  woman  is  poking  at  him,  taunting  him  with  a  piece  of  bread  in  a  way  that  is  not  cruel  but  not  kind  either:  a  test,  more  like-the  first  of  many.  The  baby  laughs,  and  the  woman  swats  his  head.  Grant  stiffens;  any  more  of  this  and  he'll  spring.  &quot;Yours?&quot;  asks  the  man,  and  it  is  as  if  they're  going  to  fight  over  the  child,  not  because  the  Indians  want  him  but  because  he's  theirs  anyway.  Grant  looks  hard  into  the  old  man's  face.  &quot;'That's  my  boy-my  youngest.&quot;  &quot;Where's  his  mama?&quot;  the  Indian  asks.  &quot;Where's  his  grandma?&quot;  It's  the  right  question  to  ask,  Grant  can't  fault  it.  By  now,  the  baby  has  finished  his  breakfast.  The  woman  has  freed  him  from  the  pile  of  rocks  and  they're  pitching  small  pebbles  at  each  other.  -CampBELt  McGratu  She's  keeping  him  on  the  very  edge  between  delight  and  fear,  on  the  blade  of  some  plan.  Grant  doesn't  answer;  he  looks  over  the  Indian's  shoulder  at  the  house.  There's  an  old  tractor,  a  Ferguson  or  a  Ford,  painted  hunter  green,  and  it's  plain  it  hasn't  run  in  years.  A  sprinkler  is  watering  a  brown  patch  of  grass.  &quot;We're  going  after  his  mama,&quot;  says  Grant,  finally.  &quot;I  can't  tell  you  where  she  is.&quot;  " b"The  Indian  nods,  and  then  does  something  that  takes  Grant  by  surprise:  he  picks  up  Grant's  box  of  Frosted  Flakes  and  eats  a  couple  of  large  handfuls.  Grant  doesn't  know  if  he's  being  robbed  somehow,  but  it  doesn't  seem  necessary  for  him  to  say  anything.  The  woman  has  taken  the  baby's  small  hand,  and  she's  leading  him  down  the  road  to  the  house.  It's  flatter  here  than  home,  and  drier;  it's  sage  country,  not  grass.  On  the  horizon  he  can  see  a  straight  line  of  trees,  aspens  waving  a  silvery  flash  of  leaves,  and  he  knows  it's  the  Bighorn,  where  the  brown  trout  are  big  as  sal-  mon,  where  the  rainbow  males  fight  each  other  for  the  hook.  Grant  and  the  Indian  follow  along,  be-  cause  the  woman's  now  in  charge.  They  go  into  the  small  house,  two  worn  steps  off  the  prairie,  a  shell  of  gray  asbestos  shingles,  and  it's  clean,  spare,  and  dark.  The  baby  lets  outa  squeal  of  joy  when  the  woman  shows  him  a  toy  box  in  one  corner  filled  with  trucks  and  alphabet  blocks.  They  drink  coffee.  &quot;How  long  you  planning  to  look?&quot;  asks  the  man.  &quot;She's  headed  for  the  mountains.  I'm  not  far  behind.&quot;  The  woman  holds  out  her  arms  to-  ward  the  baby;  she  thinks  he's  going  to  leave  the  baby  withthem.  She  thinks  it's  her  duty;  she  thinks  Grant  hasn't  got  the  right  to  refuse.  \xc2\xabWe'll  be  leaving  now,&quot;  he  says.  He  looks  over  at  the  baby  in  the  corner  and  gets  ready  to  cut  off  the  woman's  ap-  proach.  The  man  looks  at  his  wife;  this  isn't  his  affair,  it's  up  to  her.  Grant  hears  the  laundry  flapping  outside  and  thinks  thepulse  of  his  blood  is  pounding  as  loud.  He  knows  he  could  leave  the  baby  with  these  people.  He's  lived  his  life  believing  that  he  could  ask  anything  of  plains  people,  white  or  Indian,  just  the  way  he  knows  he'd  do  about  anything  if  another  asked  him.  He  could  leavethe  baby  and  know  he  was  safe.  But  he  also  knows  now  he  can't  go  on  alone.  He's  too  frightened of  failing:  how  does  he  expect  to  find  Lonnie,  a  single  lungful  of  air  in  a  sandstorm?  How  does  he  think  he  can  do  it  alone?  Grant  pulls  out  his  wallet  and  gives  her  a  ten.  He  means  &quot;Thank  you,&quot;  and  he  means  &quot;No,  thanks.&quot;  He's  not  at  all  sure  that  she  will  take  it,  but  she  does,  and  then  she  and  the  man  watch  as  he  goes  over  and  picks  up  the  baby.  The  baby's  having  fun  with  theblocks  and  he  starts  to  shriek,  beating  his  arms  and  legs  so  fast  that  for  a  second  Grant  almost  loses  his  grip.  He's  reaching  out  over  Grant's  shoulder  for  &quot;the  toys;  he  wants  those  more  than  anything  in  the  world.  He  screams,  &quot;Want  Mommy,  want  Mommy,&quot;  and  Grant  knows  he's  just  saying  this  as  a  way  of  getting  the  toys,  but  still  it  helps,  because  they  are  going  to  find  Mommy.  Grant  jogs  down  the  road  toward  his  truck  with-  out  looking  back  for  the  Indians,  and  he  has  to  fight  hard,  harder  thanhe  would  have  imagined,  to  get  the  baby  buckled  into  his  car  seat.  He's  still  screaming;  it's  been  twenty  minutes.  If  Grant  tries  to  keep  his  children  to-  gether  by  himself  it  will  be  Leila,  the  oldest,  who  pays  the  price,  but  he  hasn't  asked  himself  those  questions  yet.  He's  onlymarvelling  at  the  noise  the  baby  can  make  when  he  opens  his  cords,  and  trying  to  figure  out  how  he'll  bring  his  mother  back.  But  now  they  are  out  on  theroad,  gathering  speed.  That's  all  the  baby  wanted,  just  some  action,  something  to  see  or  do.  Grant  feels  light,  as  if  they  have  made  an  escape,  have  just  weath-  ered  a  close  call  together.  'You  and  me,  boy,  almost  got  scalped.&quot;  There's  something  about  those  words  that  sets  the  baby  off,  laughing  and  laughing.  The  sound  fills  the  cab,  and  for  a  moment  they're  not  in  a  Ford  truck  anymore,  but  Grant  doesn't  know  what  it  is;  he's  into  his  fourth  day  beyond  tired,  but  he's  sharp.  He  knows  he  can  find  her.  He  feels  low  and  close  to  the  ground,  the  way  a  hunter  wants  to  feel  when  he's  caught  up  at  last  to  the  buck  in  the  brush.  There's  a  voice  in  the  deer  that  tells  you  where  he's  going,  said  his  father,  it's  the  way  of  nature.  Close  your  eyes  and  listen,  that's  what  his  father  said,  reminded  him,  on  cold  fall  mornings.  But  be  wary:  there  are  voices  outside  that  are  not  to  be  trusted.  Lonnie  is  running  to  the  northwest;  " b"she's  a  creature  of  hills  and  mountains  and  trees,  doing  anything  not  to  get  caught  flatfooted  on  the  plains  where  the  dogs,  those  endless,  nameless  dogs,  can  pull  you  by  the  hamstrings.  Grant  pushes  down  on  the  accelerator  and  the  Ford  buckles  and  gulps.  He  wonders  about  theold  Buick;  how  long  before  it  dies?  He's  been  looking  for  it  already  by  the  side  of  the  road,  in  the  repair  yards  of  the  gas  stations,  behind  the  bait-and-tackle  shops.  He  can  picture  it  halfway  into  the  parking  lot  of  abar  at  a  place  where  the  men  fan  out  to  give  her  advice  with  their  eyes  all  over  her  ass  and  crotch,  and  he  knows  she  feels  them  looking  and  it  gives  her  a  dot  of  pleasure  and  a  line  of  wetness.  Maybe  she'll  decide  Screw  it  and  they  will  all  head  back  in,  and  even  the  last  of  the  men  funnelling  in  the  door  six,  seven  behind  feels  as  if  he's  got  something  loose  on  the  line.  Grant  can  picture  all  that  because  he's  never  known  anything  in  his  life  better  than  Lonnie  asking  him  to  turn  off  the  radio  and  come  in  and  fuck  her.  He's  looking  for  her  already;  when  her  face  comes  out  to  him  he  won't  be  surprised.  She's  stopped  running;  he  knows  that  because  he  feels  the  tiredness  in  his  own  body.  They  come  into  Billings,  past  the  refineries  and  tank  farms.  There  is  a  whole  yard  full  of  silver  tank  trucks,  and  he  says  to  the  baby,  &quot;Trucks.  See  the  bi-ig  trucks.&quot;  Grant  looks  over  and  sees  a  wide  smile,  pure  wonder-  ment  on  the  tiny  face,  and  he  cannot  resist  rubbing  the  back  of  his  fingers  on  that  round  cheek.  He  thinks  if  he  finds  Lonnie  and  she  comes  back  with  him,  looping  around through  [REDACTED]  to  pick  up  Scott  and  Pete  and  then  up  to  Muel-  ler's  for  Leila  and  then  home-if  they  all  come  back  to  that  empty       house  tired  but  glad  to  be  off  the  road,  they  all  will  have  won.  They  come  toa  stoplight  in  the  center  of  town,  and  now  he's  got  to  make  up  his  mind:  west  or  north?  He  could  head  west  on  [REDACTED]  and  hit  Bozeman  and  Butte  and  Deer  Lodge  and  Missoula,  one  after  another.  For  this  reason  Lonnie  might  have  taken  this  route,  but  the  voice  inside  him  says,  No,  she  went  north,  and  anyway  if  she  has  a  plan  it's  to  get  up  to  Glacier  and  look  for  a  waitressing  job  where  they  wouldn't  suspect  or  care  that  she'd  run  out  on  a  husband  and  family.  That's  what  she  was  doing  nine  years  ago  when  she  stopped  in  Pierre,  on  her  way  to  Glacier,  and  the  thought  never  died.  So  he  heads  north  out  of  Billings  toward  Roundup,  and  in  a  few  minutes  he  knows  he's  done  the  right  thing, because  the  road's  begun  to  climb,  not  steep  and  quick  like  the  push  over  the  Black  Hills,  but  patiently,  cutting  through  the  choppy  sides  of  the  buttes  and  the  caked  bottoms  of  the  valleys.  He's  crossing  the  Musselshell  and  the  Flatwillow,  and  he  sees  they're  faster  and  cleaner  than  the  rivers  of  South  Dakota  and  he  feels  their  tug  back  to  the  east.  He  is  so  glad  now  that  the  baby  is  with  him  that  he  starts  singing  &quot;Wheels  on  the  Bus&quot;  to  him.  He  doesn't  know  any  of  the  words,  but  he's  listened  to  Lonnie  sing  this  song  to  four  different  babies  and  he's  got  a  general  idea  how  it  goes.  The  baby  falls  asleep.  He  drives  past  the  town  of  Grassrange  and  sees  three  wom-  en  tending  thrift-shop  tables  in  the  swirling  red  dust  of  the  roadside.  Each  hill  rising  carries  them  away  from  the  real  earth.  Grant  feels  no  mystery  in  this  land,  just  danger.  At  home  the  yellow  grass  smooths  the  hills  like  velvet;  here  the  rocks  thrust  into  the  plains;  the  creeks  rip  their  course;  the  land  is  damaged,  not  shaped.  And  when  finally,  about  eleven  in  the  morning,  he  turns  west  out  of  Lewistown,  he  thinks  first  that  it's  clouds  he's  seeing,  or  a  streak  of  grime  cutting  across  his  windshield,  c|  but  it's  neither.  He  fol-  lows  the  shadows  to  the  left,  and  to  the  right,  and  they're  every-  where,  mountains  ris-  J  ing  out  of  his  life.  He  feels  the  pain  the  mountains  cause,  and  he  knows  now  that  he  must  find  her  soon.  He  pulls  over  and  slides  out  of  his  seat  onto  the  narrow  shoul-  der;  the  road  is  high  here.  There  is  no  traf-  fic,  no  sound  of  en-  gines,  nothing  except for  a  gusting  wind  that  pulls  at  his  shirttail  and  chills  the  moisture  of  his  sweaty  T-shirt.  He  starts  to  eat  a  sandwich  he  bought  in  Billings,  but  he  is  sud-  " b"denly  too  tired  to  chew.  He  moves  around  to  sit  on  the  front  bumper,  out  of  the  wind,  and  stares  west.  Maybe  Lewis  and  Clark  sat  on  this  spot.  They  too  would  have  been  afraid,  because  in  all  this  thrusting  rock  what  they  had  to  find  was  a  single  drop  of  water,  a  single  drop  that  would  become  two,  a  puddle,  a  pool,  a  stream,  a  creek,  a  tribu-  tary,  and  finally  a  river  flowing  west.  They  found  it,  Grant  is  certain,  because  they  listened  to  their  fear,  and  the  sound  that  came  to  them  was  a  waterfall.  She's  frightened  now,  and  so  is  he.  He  imagines  the  deer,  steamy  yellow  froth  dripping  from  his  sharp  lips.  He  listens  for  the  voice  through  the  whimpering  of  the  grass,  through  the  deep  pounding  of  his  heart.  She's  tired  now,  he  knows  that;  Lonnie's  getting  to  where  she  thought  she  wanted  to  be,  and  she's  missing  her  babies,  and  she  knows  she  lost  part  of  her  mind  back  there  on  the  plains  and  can't  trust  what's  left.  He  stands  up.  He  shouts,  the  words  break-  ing  off  from  the  very  bottom  of  his  throat,  &quot;Where  is  she?,&quot;  but  this  time  there  is  no  sound  from  the  grass,  just  a  steady  wind.  &quot;Where  are  you?&quot;  he  yells.  The  shout  is  cut  off  clean;  it  doesn't  even  stir  the  baby.  Grant  is  in  the  hills  now,  listening  only  to  the  fear  that  he  may  have  lost  Lonnie  for  good.  LONNIE's  purse  and  wallet  are  emptied  into  a  small  pile  in  the  center  of  a  stained  knobby  bedspread.  Outside  her  motel  window  there  is  a  gas  station,  and  then  a  lube  shop,  and  then  the  whole  long  studded  string  of  Tenth  Avenue  South.  It's  Great  Falls,  and  she  can  no  longer  believe  she  has  come  so  far  for  this,  a  baked  island  of  neon  on  an  immense  high  plain.  The  boys  she  saw  last  night,  bunched  into  small  packs  outside  the  bars,  wore  the  look  and  hair  of  the  Air  Force.  Some  of  them  spoke  to  her  as  she  walked  into  what  was  left  of  the  old  cow  town,  past  nameless  markers  and  corners  that  were  nothing  but  numbers.  She  can  get  work  here;  tonight  she  can  be  inside  some  bar  wearing  a  white  cowboy  hat  and  fringed  hot  pants,  and,  if  that's  all  she  does,  it  will  last  for  two  or  three  months,  until  one  late  afternoon  the  satin  waistband  no  longer  closes  at  the  snaps.  Already  she  feels  the  force  inside  her,  sooner,  more  powerful,  more  de-  manding  than  any  of  the  others,  so  strong  that  it  pushes  the  others  aside,  her  real  babies,  whose  soft  skin  and  voices  she  misses  so  badly  that  her  arms  ache.  She  could  get  work  here,  and  she'd  ask  the  other  waitresses  who  to  talk  to  about  fixing  everything;  maybe  it  wouldn't  cost  anything,  maybe  the  state  would  pay  for  it.  She  could  do  this;  it's  what  she  planned.  All  the  way  from  home,  eyes  on  the  mirror  for  the  growing  reddot  of  Grant's  truck,  she  pictured  the  nurse,  bored  maybe  and  unforgiving,  working  through  a  list  of  questions  as  if  it  was  a  driver's-license  renewal,  or  one  of  those  customer-  service  interviews  in  the  IGA.  And  then  there  would  be  a  white  room,  and  a  white  sleep,  and  it  would  be  done.  It  wouldn't  be  so  bad,  really.  In  a  few  days  it  would  all  be  over  and  then,  then  she  might  think  about  going  back.  She  counts  sixty-four  dollars  and  change.  She  has  a  full  tank  of  gas,  and  even  though  the  Buick  has  started  to  skip  a  little  and  lose  power,  she  knows  enough  to  think  it  is  just  the  altitude,  the  thin  air.  Her  clothes  are  clean; entry-level  position,  but  I  was  assured  earlier  that  morning  she  met  a  woman  at  the  motel's  coin-op,  a  tourist  from  [REDACTED]  washing  out  a  few  kids'  T-  shirts,  and  she  offered  to  let  Lonnie  throw  in  her  things  because  the  ma-  chine  wasn't  hardly  full.  She  was  the  kind  of  person  Lonnie  had  often  wished  could  bea  neighbor,  in  a  house  that  didn't  exist  and  that  would  never,  she  knew,  have  a  reason  to  be  built.  Grant  may  still  be  back  home;  if  he  is  she  hopes  he's  thought  of  Tillie  Muel-  ler  to  help  him,  but  it's  all  just  wishing.  He's  hunting  her  because  he  thinks  it's  his  duty,  and  she's  not  afraid  of  what  will  happen  if  he  finds  her,  she's  just  afraid  of  being  hunted,  the  seeker  al-  ready  tugging  on  her  from  the  other  side  of  the  plains.  She  leaves  her  motel  and  begins  to  walk.  She  tries  not  to  see  what  she's  seeing,  to  see  any  landmarks  through  her  own  eyes,  because  Grant  will  see  them,  too;  she  tries  not  to  say  the  name  of  this  city  because  Grant  will  hear  it.  When  she  married  him  she  didn't  ask  for  this,  except  maybe  by  wanting  something  different  as  a  teen-ager,  something  with  mystery.  He  has  pow-  ers.  People  laugh  at  her  when  she  tells  them  that,  but  it's  true,  it's  always  been  " b"true.  Grant  is  so  thin  and  blond  that  people  think  he's  nothing  but  a  kid,  until  they  look  him  in  the  eye.  She  has  lunch-a  salad  at  Burger  King.  It's  her  first  meal  of  the  day,  and  the  memory  of  the  morning  sickness  she  endured  with  Leila,  and  then  less  with  Scott,  churns  at  her  stomach.  If  she  wants  to  find  work  tonight  she'll  have  to  start  in  a  couple  of  hours,  by  four  at  the  latest.  She  doesn't  doubt  that  he  knows  where  she  was  headed:  when  she  left  him  she  turned  without  even  thinking,  and  didn't  realize  she'd  turned  west  until  she  began  to  see  the  signs  for  Rapid  City.  She  told  him  she  was  headed  west  the  night  they  met  in  the  Elkhorn  Bar;  her  boyfriend  got  scared  and  turned  back  after  a  last  beer  together,  and  then,  at  that  second,  the  goodbye  wave  she  gave  to  the  boyfriend  turned  intoa  hello  to  Grant  as  the  two  men  passed  in  the  bar  doorway.  But  even  if  he  knows  she  is  in  [REDACTED],  where  will  he  start?  Even  if  he  knows  she  is  in  the  city  whose  name  she  doesn't  want  to  say  out  loud,  can  he  find  her?  Even  if  he  knows  what  block  she  is  on,  a  block  made  of  avenues  and  streets  that  are  just  numbers,  no  names  at  all,  what  is  the  chance  he'll  spot  her?  She  looks  up  from  the  counter  in  sudden  fright  and  quickly  scans  the  restaurant.  She  has  to  stop  thinking  these  thoughts-they're  energy  flow-  ingout  of  her,  a  beacon  for  him.  She's  giving  herself  away.  She  runs  outside  and  cuts  off  Tenth  Avenue,  back  to-  ward  theold  city.  Shewalks  until  she  comes  to  the  deep  chasm  of  the  Mis-  souri,  and  she  reads  asign  thatsays  &quot;Gtsson  Park.&quot;  She  brings  her  hands  to  her  face,  because  now  those  words  are  out  on  the  line  and  maybe  he  knows  them,  maybe  he's  heard  of  this  place.  The  grass  is  green,  and  there  are  children  in  the  play  yard,  and  then,  beyond,  there  is  the  river,  full  and  wide.  She  doesn't  think  of  the  trees  or  the  statue  she's  standing  in  front  of,  or  the  white,  freshly  painted  bench  she  has  to  sit  on  for  a  minute  or  two  because  her  legsare  fluttering.  Why  wouldn't  he  let  her  be?  Why  couldn't  he  give  her  some  time,  such  a  small  amount  of  time?  She's  walking  again,  and  now  she's  got  a  new  plan:  she'll  blank  her  mind  to  the  details  around  her  by  thinking  about  home.  She's  going  through  the  drawers  of  the  steel  kitchen  unit  and  she's  picturing  the  knives,  the  forks.  She's  counting  the  spoons,  including  the  baby  spoon  with  the  chipped  plastic  handle  that  has  a  line  of  ducks  on  it,  except  the  yellow  paint  they  used  for  the  beaks  washed  off.  She's  trying  now  to  count  the  floorboards  in  the  kitchen,  but  it  isn't  working;  she's  still  on  that  baby  spoon.  She  has  held  that  spoon  for  four  babies,  scooped  in  the  first  mouth-  fuls  of  pears  and  custard,  given  those  four  babies  their  first  tastes  of  every-  thing  on  thatsingle  spoon.  Even  now  she  can  feel  through  the  handle  the  tug  of  the  baby's  lips  when  he's  hungry,  and  the  resistanceof  the  tongue  that  moves  her  hand  aside  when  he's  not.  She's  given  her  children  life  on  that  spoon,  and  now  she  wants  it,  she  wants  to  hold  it  and  look  at  those  beakless  ducks.  When  she  gets  back  to  the  bars,  the  neon  is  bright,  not  because  it's  dark  or  will  be  for  three  more  hours  but  be-  cause  the  watch  has  changed  at  the  Minuteman  base  and  the  boys  will  soon  be  there.  She's  standing  there,  just  one  of  the  girls,  and  a  big  red  pickup  goes  by  and  takesa  wide  U-turn  back,  and  she  looks  away  and  says  to  herself,  Please,  let  it  be  some  ranch  hand  look-  ing  for  a  whore,  but  it's  not,  and  she  does  not  ask  herself  any  more  questions  about  how  he  did  it.  He  has  dropped  on  her  through  a  hole  in  the  day,  a  parting  of  clouds  straight  up  to  the  sun.  He  parks  alongside  her  and  comes  forward  halfway  and  stands  crazy,  so  spent  that  she  thinks  he  will  fall,  and  they  look  at  each  other  until  it  seems  that  he  has  started  talking  without  making  a  sound.  &quot;Lonnie,&quot;  he  says,  &quot;I  won't  hurt  you.&quot;  There's  gravel  in  his  voice;  he's hoarse,  and  it  makes  her  think  he's  been  crying.  She  looks  into  the  truck  and  sees  the  baby,  who  starts  pumping  his  arms  up  and  down  in  a  little  dance,  even  though  he's  still  strapped  in.  &quot;Mommy,&quot;  he  shouts.  She  can't  help  smiling;  the  baby  makes  her  smile  and  laugh  for  the  first  time  in  five  days.  She  can  feel  the  tug  to  him-powerful,  intoxicating.  He's  ev-  ery  bit  as  demanding  as  before,  as  mer-  ciless,  as  selfish,  as  he  reaches,  but  there's  asweetness  now;  the  difference  is  she  wants  to  give  it  to  him,  to  all  the  kids,  to  Grant.  Her  body  starts  flowing  toward  the  baby,  her  breasts  heavy.  &quot;Oh  God,  Grant,  you  brought  the  baby.&quot;  As  she  says  this  she  pictures  the  two  of  them  riding  in  the  truck  to-  gether,  side  by  side,  and  remembers  how  so  long  ago  she  loved  to  think  of  him  and  the  kids  together.  &quot;I  didn't  have  no  choice,&quot;  he  says,  but  she  sees  through  it,  she  knows  he  couldn't  have  found  her  alone.  &quot;Where  arethe  others?&quot;  It  is  sud-  denly  agony  to  be  apart  from  them.  &quot;Carry!&quot;  yells  the  baby  from  the  truck.  &quot;Carry!&quot;  he  yells  again,  reach-  ing  out,  and  she  can  feel  herself  open  for  him,  a  torrent  now,  a  burst.  &quot;They're  safe.  Do  we  still  have  an-  other  coming?&quot;  &quot;I  can't  have  another.  I  can't  do  it.  You  can't  make  me.&quot;  &quot;I  want  you  back.  I  need  you  back.&quot;  &quot;You  can  have  me  back,  Grant.  I  want  to  come  home.  I  miss  my  babies.&quot;  She's  trying  not  to  cry.  She  is  Lonnie,  she  is  only  twenty-nine,  she  has  come  to  this  place  and  cannot  escape.  &quot;But  this  child  will  kill  me.&quot;  And  Grant  has  known  for  five  days  that  hecan  come  this  far  and  no  far-  ther.  He'll  choose  the  living,  he'll  choose  Lonnie.  And  Lonnie  has  known  for  five  days  that  whether  she  likes  it  or  not  Grant  and  her  babies  are  every-  thing  for  her,  that  she  may  want  some-  thing  more  but  needs  nothing  else.  She  is  crying  now  as  she  passes  Grant,  go-  ing  toward  the  truck.  She  picks  up  the  baby  and  he  feels  like  satin,  and  the  three  of  them  stand  on  this  spot  in  this  city  beside  the  [REDACTED]  River.  Lonnie  thinks  of  the  river  on  the  map,  flowing  north  out  of  Great  Falls  al-  most  to  [REDACTED]  before  it  begins  to  drop  southeast,  straight  back  home  through  South  Dakota.  They  could  almost  ride  home  on  a  raft."