 b"ITS exactly  twenty  minutes  to  mid-  I  night,  on  this  the  eve  of  my  seven-  tieth  birthday,  and  I've  decided  to  address  you,  for  a  change,  in  writing-  odd  as  that  might  seem.  I'm  perfectly  aware  of  how  many  years  we've  been  together,  even  if  I  haven't  been  very  good  about  remembering  to  commemo-  rate  certain  dates,  certain  days  of  the  year.  I'm  also  perfectly  aware  of  how  you're  going  to  take  the  fact  that  I'm  doing  this  at  all,  so  late  at  night,  with  everybody  due  to  arrive  tomorrow,  and  the  house  still  unready.  I  haven't  spent  almost  five  decades  with  you  without  learning  a  few  things  about  you  that  I  can  predict  and  describe  with  some  accuracy,  though  I  admit  that,  as  you  put  it,  lately  we've  been  more  like  strangers  than  husband  and  wife.  Well,  so  if  we  are  like  strangers,  per-  haps  there  are  some  things  I  can  tell  you  that  you  won't  have  already  fig-  ured  out  about  the  way  Ifeel.  Tonight,  we  had  another  one  of  those  long,  silent  evenings  after  an  argument  (remember?)  over  pepper.  We  had  been  bickering  all  day,  really,  but  at  dinner  I  put  pepper  on  my  pota-  toes  andyou  said  that  about  how  I  shouldn't  have  pepper  because  it  always  upsets  my  stomach.  I  bothered  to  re-  mark  that  I  used  to  eat  chili  peppers  for  breakfast  and  if  I  wanted  to  put  plain  old  ordinary  black  pepper  on  my  potatoes,  as  I  had  been  doing  for  more  than  sixty  years,  that  was  my  privilege.  Writing  this  now,  it  sounds  far  more  testy  than  I  meant  it,  but  that  isn't  really  the  point.  In  any  case,  you  chose  to  overlook  my  tone.  You  simply  said,  &quot;John,  you  wereup  all  night  the  last  time  you  had  pepper  with  your  dinner.&quot;  I  said,  &quot;I  was  up  all  night  because  I  ate  green  peppers.  Not  black  pepper  but  green  peppers.&quot;  &quot;A  pepper  is  a  pepper,  isn't  it?&quot;  you  said.  And  then  I  started  in  on  you.  I  got,  as  you  call  it,  legal  with  you-pointing  out  that  green  peppers  are  not  black  pepper-and  from  there  we  moved  on  to  an  evening  of  mutual  disregard  for  each  other  that  ended  with  your  deci-  sion  to  go  to  bed  early.  The  grandchil-  dren  will  make  you  tired,  and  there's  still  the  house  to  do;  you  had  every     reason  to  want  to  get  some  rest,  and  yet  I  felt  that  you  were  also  making  a  point  of  getting  yourself  out  of  proximity  with  me,  leaving  me  to  my  displeasure,  with  another  ridiculous  argument  set-  tling  between  us  like  a  fog.  So,  after  you  went  to  bed,  I  got  out  the  whiskey  and  started  pouring  drinks,  and  I  had  every  intention  of  putting  myself  into  a  stupor.  It  was  almost  my  birthday,  after  all,  and-  forgive  this,  it's  the  way  I  felt  at  the  time-you  had  nagged  me  into  an  ar-  gument  and  then  gone  off  to  bed;  the  day  had  ended  asso  many  of  our  days  end  now,  and  I  felt,  well,  entitled.  I  had  a  few  drinks,  without  any  appre-  ciable  effect  (though  you  might  well  see  this  letter  as  firm  evidence  to  the  contrary),  and  then  I  decided  to  do  something  to  shake  you  up.  I  would  leave.  I'd  make  a  lot  of  noise  going  out  the  door;  I'd  take  a  walk  around  the  neighborhood  and  make  you  wonder  where  I  could  be.  Perhaps  I'd  go  check  into  a  motel  for  the  night.  The  thought  even  crossed  my  mind  that  I  might  leave  you  altogether.  I  admit  that  I  entertained  the  thought,  Marie.  I  saw  our  life  together  now  as  the  day-  to-day  round  of  petty  quarrelling  and  tension  that  it's  mostly  been  over  the  past  couple  of  years  or  so,  and  I  wanted  out  as  sincerely  as  I  ever  wanted  any-  thing.  My  God,  I  wanted  an  end  to  it,  and  I  got  up  from  my  seat  in  front  of  the  television  and  walked  back  down  the  hallto  the  en-  trance  of  our  room  to  look  at  you.  I  suppose  I  hoped  you'd  still  be  awake,  so  I  could  tell  you  of  this  momentous  decision  I  felt  I'd  reached.  And  maybe  you  were  awake:  one  of  our  oldest  areas  of  con-  tention  being  thefeather-thin  mem-  brane  of  your  sleep  that  I  am  always  disturbing  with  my  restlessness  in  the  nights.  All  right.  Assuming  youwere  asleep,  and  don't  know  that  I  stood  in  the  doorway  of  our  room,  I  will  say  that  I  stood  there  for  perhaps  five  min-  utes,  just  looking  at  you  in  the  half-  dark,  the  shape  of  your  body  under  the  blanket-you  really  did  look  like  one  of  the  girls  when  they  were  little  and  I  used  to  stand  in  the  doorway  of  their  rooms;  your  illness  last  year  made  you  so  small  again-and,  as  I  said,  I  thought  I  had  decided  to  leave  you,  for your  peace  as  well  as  mine.  I  know  you  have  gone  to  sleep  crying,  Marie.  I  know  you've  felt  sorry  about  things,  and  wished  we  could  find  some  way  to  stop  irritating  each  other  so  much.  Well,  of  course,  I  didn't  go  any-  where.  I  came  back  to  this  room  and  drank  more  of  the  whiskey  and  watched  television.  It  was  like  all  the  other  nights.  The  shows  came  on  and  ended,  and  the  whiskey  began  to  wear  off.  There  was  a  little  rain  shower.  I  had  a  moment  of  the  shock  of  knowing  I  was  seventy.  After  the  rain  ended,  I  did  go  outside  for  a  few  minutes.  I  stood  on  the  sidewalk  and  looked  at  the  house.  The  kids,  with  their  kids,  were  on  the  road  somewhere  between  their  homes  and  here.  I  walked  up  to  the  end  of  the  block  and  back,  and  a  pleasant  breeze  blew  and  shook  the  drops  out  of  the  trees.  My  stomach  was  bothering  me  some,  and  maybe  it  was  the  pepper  I'd  put  on  my  potatoes.  It  could  justas  well  have  been  the  whiskey.  Anyway,  as  I  came  back  to  the  house,  I  began  to  have  the  eerie  feeling  that  I  had  reached  the  last  night  of  my  life.  There  was  this  small  discomfort  in  my  stom-  ach,  and  no  other  physical  pang  or  pain,  and  I  am  used  to  the  small  ills  and  side  effects  of  my  way  of  eating  and  drinking;  yet  I  felt  the  sense  of  the  end  of  things  more  strongly  than  I  can  describe.  When  I  stood  in  the  entrance  of  our  room  and  looked  at  you  again,  wondering  if  I  would  make  it  through  to  the  morning,  I  suddenly  found  my-  self  trying  to  think  what  I  would  say  to  you  if  indeed  this  wes  the  last  time  I  would  everbe  able  to  speak  to  you.  And  I  began  to  know  I  would  write  you  this  letter.  At  least  words  in  a  letter  aren't  blurred  by  tone  of  voice,  by  theold  aggravating  sound  of  me  talking  to  you.  I  began  with  this,  and  with  the  idea  that,  after  months  of  thinking  about  it,  I  would  at  last  tryto  say  something  to  you  that  wasn't  colored  byour  disaffections.  What  I  have  to  tell  you  must  be  explained  in  a  rather  roundabout  way.  I've  been  thinking  about  my  cousin  Louise  and  her  husband.  When  he  died,  and  she  stayed  with  us  last  sum-  mer,  something  brought  back  to  me  what  is  really  only  the  memory  of  a  moment;  yet  it  reached  me,  that  mo-  ment,  across  more  than  fifty  years.  As  you  know,  Louise  is  nine  years  older  than  I,  and  more  like  an  older  sister  " b"than  a  cousin.  I  must  have  told  you  at  one  time  or  another  that  I  spent  some  weeks  with  her,  back  in  1933,  when  she  was  first  married.  The  memory  I'm  talking  about  comes  from  that  time,  and  what  I  have  decided  I  have  to  tell  you  comes  from  that  memory.  Father  had  been  dead  four  years.  We  were  all  used  to  the  fact  that  times  were  hard  and  that  there  was  no  man  in  the  house,  though  I  suppose  I  filled  that  role  in  some  titular  way.  In  any  case,  when  Mother  became  ill  there  was  the  prob-  lem  of  us,  her  children.  Though  I  was  the  oldest,  I  wasn't  old  enough  to  stayin  the  house  alone,  or  to  nurse  her,  either.  My  grandfather  came  up  with  the  solution-  and  everybody  went  along  with  it-that  I  would  go  to  Louise's  for  a  time,  and  the  two  girls  would  go  to  stay  with  Grandfather.  You'll  remember  that  people  did  pretty  much  what  that  old  man  wanted  them  to  do.  O  we  closed  up  the  house,  and  I  got  on  a  train  to  [REDACTED].  I  was  a  few  weeks  shy  of  fourteen  years  old.  I  re-  member  that  I  was  not  able  to  believe  that  anything  truly  bad  would  come  of  Mother's  pleurisy,  and  was  conse-  quently  glad  of  the  opportunity  it  af-  forded  me  to  travel  the  hundred  miles  south  to  Charlottesville,  where  Cousin  Louise  had  moved  with  her  new  hus-  band  only  a  month  earlier,  after  her  wedding.  Because  we  travelled  so  much  at  the  beginning,  you  never  got  to  really  know  Charles  when  he  was  young;  in  1933,  he  was  a  very  tall,  imposing  fellow,  with  bright-red  hair  and  a  graceful  way  of  moving  that  always  made  me  think  of  athletics,  contests  of  skill.  He  had  worked  at  the  Navy  yard  in  [REDACTED],  and  had  been  laid  off  in  the  first  months  of  Roosevelt's  New  Deal.  Louise  was  teaching  in  a  day  school  in  Charlottes-  ville,  so  they  could  make  ends  meet,  and  Charles  was  spending  most  of  his  time  looking  for  work  and  fixing  up  the  house.  I  had  only  met  Charles  once  or  twice  beforethe  wedding,  but  al-  ready  I  admired  him,  and  wanted  to  emulatehim.  The  prospect  of  spending  time  in  his  house,  of  perhaps  going  fishing  with  him  in  the  small  streams  of  central  [REDACTED],  was  all  I  thought  about  on  the  way  down.  And  I  remem-  ber  that  we  did  go  fishing  one  weekend,  that  I  wound  up  spending  a  lot  of  time  with  Charles,  helping  to  paint  the  house,  and  to  run  water  lines  under  it  for  indoor  plumbing.  Oh,  I  had  time  with  Louise,  too-listening  to  her  read  from  the  books  she  wanted  me  to  be  interested  in,  walking  with  her  around  Charlottesville  in  the  evenings  and  looking  at  the  city  as  it  was  then.  Or  sitting  on  her  small  porch  and  talking  about  the  family,  Mother's  stubborn  illness,  the  children  Louise  saw  every  day  at  school.  But  what  I  want  to  tell  you  has  to  dowith  the  very  first  day  I  was  there.  I  know  you  think  I  use  far  too  much  energy  thinking  about  and  pining  away  for  the  past,  and  I  therefore  know  that  I'm  taking  a  risk  by  talking  about  this  ancient  history,  and  by  trying  to  make  you  see  it.  But  this  all  has  to  dowith  you  and  me,  my  dear,  and  our  late  inability  to  find  ourselves  in  the  same  room  together  without  bitterness  and  pain.  That  summer,  1933,  was  unusually  warm  in  [REDACTED],  and  the  heat,  along  with  my  impatience  to  arrive,  made  the  train  almost  unbearable.  I  think  it  was  just  past  noon  when  it  pulled  into  the  station  at  Charlottesville,  with  me  hanging  out  one  of  the  windows,  look-  ing  for  Louise  or  Charles.  It  was  Charles  who  had  come  to  meet  me.  He  stood  in  a  crisp-looking  seersucker  suit,  with  a  straw  boater  cocked  at  just  the  angle  you'd  expect  a  young,  newly  married  man  to  wear  a  straw  boater,  even  in  the  middle  of  economic  disas-  ter.  I  waved  at  him  and  he  waved  back,  and  I  might've  jumped  out  the  window  if  the  train  had  slowed  even  a  little  more  than  it  had  before  it  stopped  in  the  shade  of  the  platform.  I  made  my  way  out,  carrying  the  cloth  bag  my  grandfather  had  given  me  for  the  trip  -Mother  had  said  through  her  rheum  " b"that  I  looked  like  a  carpetbagger-and  when  I  stepped  down  to  shake  hands  with  Charles  I  noticed  that  what  I  thought  was  a  new  suit  was  tattered  at  the  ends  of  the  sleeves.  &quot;Well,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Young  John.&quot;  I  smiled  at  him.  I  was  perceptive  enough  tosee  that  his  cheerfulness  was  not  entirely  effortless.  He  was  a  man  out  of  work,  after  all,  and  so  in  spite  of  himself  there  was  worry  in  his  face,  the  slightest  shadow  in  an  otherwise  glad  and  proud  countenance.  We  walked  through  the  station  to  the  street,  and  on  up  the  steep  hill  to  the  house,  which  was  asmall  clapboard  structure,  a  cot-  tage,  really,  with  a  porch  at  the  end  of  a  short  sidewalk  lined  with  flowers-  they  were  marigolds,  I  think-and  here  was  Louise,  coming  out  of  the  house,  her  arms  already  stretched  wide  to  embrace  me.  &quot;Lord,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  swear  you've  grown  since  the  wedding,  John.&quot;  Charles  took  my  bag  and  went  inside.  &quot;Let  me  look  at  you,  young  man,&quot;  Louise  said.  I  stood  for  inspection.  And  as  she  looked  me  over  I  saw  that  her  hair  was  pulled  back,  that  a  few  strands  of  it  had  come  loose,  that  it  was  brilliantly  au-  burn  in  the  sun.  I  suppose  I  was  a  little  in  love  with  her.  She  was  grown, married  now.  She  was  a  part  of  what  seemed  a  great  mystery  to  me,  even  as  I  was  about  to  enter  it,  and  of  course  you  remember  how  that  feels,  Marie,  when  one  is  on  the  verge  of  things-nearly  adult,  nearly  old  enough  to  fall  in  love.  I  looked  at  Louise's  happy,  flushed  face,  and  felt  a  deep  ache  as  she  ushered  me  into  her  house.  I  wanted  so  to  be  older.  Inside,  Charles  had  poured  lemon-  ade  for  us,  and  was  sitting  in  the  easy  chair  by  the  fireplace,  alreadysipping  his.  Louise  wanted  to  show  me  the  house,  and  the  back  yard-which  she  had  tilled  and  turned  into  a  small  vege-  table  garden-but  she  must've  sensed  how  thirsty  I  was,  and  so  she  asked  me  to  sit  down  and  have  a  cool  drink  be-  fore  she  showed  me  the  upstairs.  Now,  " b"of  course,  looking  back  on  it,  I  remember  that  those  rooms  she  was  so  anxious  to  show  me  were  meagre  indeed.  They  were  not  much  bigger  than  closets,  re-  ally,  and  the  paint  was  faded  and  dull;  the  fur-  niture  she'd  arranged  so  artfully  was  coming  apart;  the  pictures  she'd  put  on  the  walls  were  prints  she'd  cut  out-  magazine  covers,  most-  ly-and  the  curtains  over  the  windows  were  the  same  ones  that  had  hung  in  her  childhood  bedroom  for  twenty  years.  (&quot;Recognize  these?&quot;  she  said  with  a  deprecating  smile.)  Of  course,  the  quality  of  her  pride  had  nothing  to  do  with  the  fineness  -or  lack  of  it-in  these  things  but  in  the  fact  that  they  belonged  to  her,  and  that  she  was  a  married  lady  in  her  own  house,  On  this  day  in  July,  1933,  she  and  Charles  were  waiting  for  the  delivery  of  a  fan  they  had  scrounged  enough  money  to  buy  from  Sears,  through  the  catalogue.  There  were  things  they  would  rather  have  been  doing,  espe-  cially  in  this  heat,  and  especially  with  me  there.  Monticello  wasn't  far  away,  the  university  was  within  walking  dis-  tance,  and  without  too  much  expense  one  could  ride  a  taxi  to  one  of  the  lakes  nearby.  They  had  hoped  that  the  fan  would  arrive  before  I  did,  but  since  it  hadn't,  and  since  neither  Louise  nor  Charles  was  willing  to  leave  the  other  alone  that  day  while  traipsing  off  with  me,  there  wasn't  anything  to  do  but  wait  around  for  it.  Louise  had  opened  the  windows  and  drawn  the  shades,  and  we  sat  in  her  small  living  room  and  drank  the  lemonade,  fanning  ourselves  with  folded  parts  of  Charles's  newspaper.  From  time  to  time  an  anemic  breath  of  air  would  move  the  shades  slightly,  but  then  everything  grew  still  again.  Louise  sat  on  the  arm  of  Charles's  chair,  and  I  sat  on  the  sofa.  We  talked  about  pleurisy,  and,  I  think,  about  the  fact  that  Thomas  Jefferson  had  invented  the  dumbwaiter,  and  how  the  plumbing  at  Monticello  was  at  least  a  century  ahead  of  its  time.  Charles  remarked  that  it  was  the  spirit  of  invention  that  would  make  a  man's  career  in  these  days.  &quot;That's  what  I'm  aiming  for-  to  be  inventive  in  a  job.  No  matter  what  it  winds  up  being.&quot;  When  the  lemonade  ran  out,  Louise  got  up  and  went  into  the  kitchen  to  make  some  more.  Charles  and  I  talked  about  taking  a  weekend  to  go  fishing.  He  leaned  back  in  his  chair  and  put  his  hands  behind  his  head,  looking  satis-  fied.  In  the  kitchen,  Louise  was  chip-  ping  ice  for  our  glasses,  and  she  began  singing  something  low,  for  her  own  pleasure,  a  barely  audible  lilting,  and  Charles  and  I  sat  listening.  It  occurred  to  me  that  I  was  very  happy.  I  had  the  sense  that  soon  I  would  be  embarked  on  my  own  life,  as  Charles  was  on  his,  and  that  an  attractive  woman  like  Louise  would  be  there  with  me.  Charles  said,  &quot;God,  listen  to  that.  Doesn't  Louise  have  the  loveliest  voice?&quot;  AND  that's  all  I  have  from  that  day.  I  don't  even  know  if  the  fan  arrived  later,  and  I  have  no  clear  mem-  ory  of  how  we  spent  the  rest  of  the  afternoon  and  evening.  I  remember  Louise  singing  a  song,  her  husband  leaning  back  in  his  chair,  folding  his hands  behind  his  head,  expressing  his  pleasure  inhis  young  wife's  voice.  I  remember  that  I  felt  quite  extraordi-  narily  content  just  then.  And  that's  all  I  remember.  But  there  are,  of  course,  the  things  we  both  know:  we  know  they  moved  to  [REDACTED]  to  be  near  Charles's  parents;  we  know  they  never  had  any  children;  we  know  that  Charles  fell  down  a  shaft  at  a  construction  site  in  the  fall  of  1957  and  was  hurt  so  badly  that  he  never  walked  again.  And  I  know  that  when  she  came  to  stay  with  us  last  summer  she  told  me  she'd  learned  to  hate  him,  and  not  for  what  she'd  had  to  help  him  do  all  those  years.  No,  it  started  earlier  and  was  deeper  than  that.  She  hadn't  minded  the  care  of  him  -the  washing  and  feeding  and  all  the  numberless  small  tasks  she  had  to  per-  form  each  and  every  day,  all  day-she  hadn't  minded  this.  In  fact,  she  thought  there  was  something  in  her  makeup  that  liked  being  needed  so  completely.  'The  trouble  was  simply  that  whatever  she  had  once  loved  in  him  she  had  stopped  loving,  and  for  many,  many  years  before  he  died  she'd  felt  only  suffocation  when  he  was  near  enough  to  touch  her,  only  irritation  and  anxiety  when  he  spoke.  She  said  all  this,  and  then  looked  at  me,  her  cousin,  " b"who  has  ~een  fortunate  enough  to  have  children,  and  to  be  in  love  over  time,  and  said,  &quot;John,  how  have  youand  Marie  managed  it?&quot;  And  what  I  wanted  to  tell  you  has  to  do  with  this  fact-that  while  you  and  I  had  had  one  of  our  whispering  argu-  ments  only  moments  before,  I  felt  quite  certain  of  the  simple  truth  of  the  mat-  ter,  which  is  that,  whatever  our  com-  plications,  we  Aeve  managed  to  be  in  love  over  time.  &quot;Louise,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;People  start  out  with  such  high  hopes,&quot;  she  said,  as  if  I  wasn't  there.  She  looked  at  me.  &quot;Don't  they?&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  said.  She  seemed  to  consider  this  a  mo-  ment.  Then  she  said,  &quot;I  wonder  how  it  happens.&quot;  I  said,  &quot;You  ought  to  get  some  rest.&quot;  Or  something  equally  pointless  and  admonitory.  As  she  moved  away  from  me,  I  had  an  image  of  Charles  standing  on  the  station  platform  in  Charlottesville  that  summer,  the  straw  boater  set  at  its  cocky  angle.  It  was  an  image  I  would  see  most  of  the  rest  of  that  night,  and  on  many  another  night  since.  CAN  almost  hear  your  voice  as  you  point  out  that  once  again  I've  man-  aged  to  dwell  too  long  on  the  memory  of  something  that's  past  and  gone.  The  difference  is  that  I'm  not  grieving  over  the  past  now.  I'm  merely  reporting  a  memory,  sothat  you  might  understand  what  I'm  about  to  say  to  you.  The  fact  is,  we  aren't  the  people  we  were  even  then,  just  a  year  ago.  I  know  that.  As  I  know  things  havebeen  slowly  eroding  between  us  for  a  very  long  time;  we  area  little  tired  of  each  other,  and  there  are  annoyances  and  old  scars  that  won't  be  obliterated  with  a  letter-even  a  long  one  written  in  the  middle  of  the  night  in  desperate  sincerity,  under  the  influence,  admit-  tedly,  of  a  considerable  portion  of  bourbon  whiskey,  but  nevertheless  with  the  best  intention  and  hope:  that  you  may  know  how,  over  the  course  of  this  night,  I  came  to  the  end  of  needing  an  explanation  for  our  difficulty.  We  have  reached  this-place.  Everything  we  say  seems  rather  aggravatingly  mind-  less  and  automatic,  like  something  one  stranger  might  say  to  another  in  any  of  the  thousand  circumstances  where  strangers  are  thrown  together  for  a  time  and  the  silence  begins  to  grow  heavy  on  their  minds  and  someone  has  to  say  something.  Darling,  we  go  so  long  these  days  without  having  any-  thing  at  all  to  do  with  each  other,  and  the  children  are  arriving  tomorrow,  and  once  more  we'll  be  in  the  position  of  making  all  the  gestures  that  give  them  back  their  parents  as  they  think  their  parents  are,  and  what  I  wanted  to  say  to  you,  what  came  to  me  asI  thought  about  Louise  and  Charles  on  that  day  so  long  ago,  when  they  were  young  and  so  obviously  glad  of  each  other,  and  I  looked  at  them  and  knew  it  and  was  happy-what  came  to  me  was  that  even  the  harsh  things  that  hap-  pened  to  them,  even  the  years  of  anger  and  silence,  even  the  disappointment  and  the  bitterness  and  the  wanting  not  to  be  in  the  same  room  anymore,  even  all  that  must  have  been  worth  it  for  such  loveliness.  At  least  I  am  here,  at  seventy  years  old,  hoping  so.  Tonight,  I  went  back  to  our  room  again  and  stood  gazing  at  you  asleep,  dreaming  whatever  you  were  dreaming,  and  I  had  a  moment  of  thinking  how  we  were  always  friends,  too.  And  what  I  wanted  finally  to  say  was  that  I  remem-  ber  well  our  own  sweet  times,  our  own  old  loveliness.  I  would  like  to  think  that  even  if  at  the  very  beginning  of  our  lives  together  I  had  somehow  been  shown  that  we  would  end  up  here,  with  this  longing  to  be  away  from  each  other,  this  feeling  of  being  trapped  together,  of  being  tied  to  each  other  in  a  way  that  makes  us  wish  for  other  times,  some  other  place,  I  would  have  known  enough  to  accept  it  all  freely  for  the  chance  at  that  love.  And  if  I  could,  I  would  do  it  all  again,  Marie.  All  of  it,  even  the  sorrow.  My  sweet,  my  dear  adversary.  For  every-  thing  that  I  remember. "