 b"A NEW  development,  and  more  A  than  he  can  bear:  his  ex-wife  is  abruptly  back  from  Europe,  her  boyfriend  of  the  last  two  years  nowhere  in  sight.  The  tortoiseshell  glasses  alert  him  that  Christie,  con-  fronting  him  across  his  own  living  room,  has  reinvented  herself  yet  again.  She  has  never  before  worn  glasses,  and  itis  plain  to  Dennis  only  because  he  knows  her  so  well  that  they  still  excite  her  as  a  novelty,  a  kind  of  prop.  She  has  a  new  gesture-index  finger  laid  against  the  bridge  of  her  nose  to  give  the  specs  a  tiny  upward  shove,  brown  eyes  widening-that  manages  to  get  across  the  impression  that  she  is  tak-  ing  life  more  seriously,  yet  her  account  of  the  last  year  smells  of  evasiveness.  D\xc3\xa9ja  vu,  because  his  old  sense,  with  Christie,  was  often  that  she  was  skip-  ping  details  that  might  not  reflect  well  on  her,  editing  and  enlarging  as  she  went,  and  that  he  was  essentially  helpless  to  pin  her  to  the  truth.  Christie  is  all  in  baggy  black,  her  legs  crossed,  one  black,  doltish  boot  swinging.  She  wants  their  son  for  the  summer.  &quot;George  has  stayed  behind,&quot;  she  says  with  a  faint,  enigmatic  tone  of  apology.  Not  even  that  is  clear.  Not  &quot;I've  left  him&quot;  or  &quot;It  was  all  a  mistake&quot;  but  &quot;George  has  stayedbe-  hind.&quot;  In  [REDACTED],  where  she  lived  with  him  for  the  last  year.  By  a  coincidence,  Dennis  and  Christie  both  began  second  families  last  year,  she  with  George,  Dennis  with  his  young  wife,  4672616e6365sca.  Christie's  baby  girl  has  been  left  in  Santa  Fe  with  a  sit-  ter.  His  twins  are  asleep  upstairs  with  their mother,  all  of  them  ex-  hausted  by  the  cold  they  have  been  sharing  back  and  forth.  Kenny,  his  and  Christie's  thir-  teen-year-old,  is  away overnight  with  his  best  friend;  when  Dennis  heard  a  car  grind  to  a  halt  in  the  rocky  drive,\nhe  had  a  scared  flash  that  Kenny  and  Leo  had  got  into  trouble  and  somebody  had  been  sent  to  tell  him  so.  For  next  to  no  reason,  Dennis  distrusts  Leo,  a  good-looking,  slightly  hyper  kid,  self-  assured  around  adults  in  a  way  Kenny  never  will  be,  not  until  he's  one  him-  self-maybe  not  even  then.  Leo's  girl-  friend  works  in  arecord  shop  where  Kenny  and  Leo  are  always  hanging  out.  Kenny  can't  drive  yet,  of  course,  and  neither  can  Leo.  It's  real  proof  of  Leo's  fast-talking  charm  that  he  has  a  sixteen-year-old  girlfriend.  Leo's  mother,  who  doesn't  approve  of  the  girlfriend,  drives  the  boys  to  themall,  because  otherwise,  she  says,  they'd  hitchhike.  Maybe  it's  Leo's  mother  Dennis  dislikes.  She  gives  in  to  the  boys  too  easily.  She  was  Christie's  lawyer,  trim  and  venomous,  during  the  divorce.  What  kind  of  trouble  does  he  imag-  ine  his  son  getting  into?  Dennis  has  no  very  stable  or  obsessive  idea,  just  occa-  sional  glints,  in  which  Kenny  pockets  a  Baggie  of  white  powder,  or,  with  faked  knowingness,  hoovers  a  furled  five- dollar  bill  over  a  mirror,  talked  into  these  idiot  risks  by  Leo.  None  of  those  fears  come  true;  instead  an  altogether  different  problem  materializes.  The  car  that  startled  him  belongs  to  Kenny's  mother.  Christie's  never  been  in  the  house  before,  and  one  of  his  reactions  at  letting  her  in  strikes  Dennis  as  inap-  propriate,  disturbingly  so,  and  he  hides  it:  he'd  like  to  know  what  she  thinks.  He's  an  architect,  and  when  he  first  came  across  this  house  it  was  a  warren  of  low-ceilinged  rooms  whose  win-  dows  were,  in  the  old-fashioned  way,  quite  small.  Cottonwoods  grew  right  up  to  the  walls.  Such  a  shaded,  wood-  fragrant,  down-at-heels  little  place:  he  wanted  it.  In  renovating,  he's  changed  it  very  little.  &quot;Nice,&quot;  Christie  says  of  the  room,  sitting,  crossing  her  black  legs,  begin-  ning  to  pick  at  the  cuticle  of  her  thumb,  and  he  asks  himself  why  he  wanted  more  from  her.  Glancing  up,  she  reads  his  disappointment,  and  makes  a  face.  What  do  you  expect?  the  face  says.  This  is  where  you  live  your  new  life.  The  face  impliesthat  she  knew  such  a  muted  reaction  would  hurt.  More  than  anything,  he  wants  her  to  stop  picking  away  at  her  cuticle.  If  she  can  get  at  him  so  fast,  so  nonchalantly,  he'd  bet-  ter  watch  it.  &quot;Can  we  turn  on  another  light?&quot;  she  says.  When  he  does,  he  has  to  admire  the  kinked  mass  of  her  dark  hair,  backlit.  Even  with  the  glasses,  she  looks  good.  She's  already  lost  whatever  weight  she  gained  with  the  baby.  &quot;Coffee?&quot;  he  says,  for  a  chance  to  leave  the  room.  He  pokes  through  a  drawer  for  Melitta  filters,  then  stares  around  the  kit-  chen,  catching  his  emotional  breath,  re-  orienting  himself.  &quot;Tea,&quot;  Christie  calls.   Her  tone's  not  rude,  and  he's  no  longeran-  noyed  with  her,  but  it  troubles  him  that,  this     " b"long  divorced,  it's  taken  them  all  of  five  minutes  to  fall  back  into  marital  shorthand.  O.K.  Tea.  He  carries  their  two  cups  back  with  him,  feeling  both  more  guarded  and  surer  about  where  to  begin.  \xc2\xabChristie,  weeks  went  by  when  you  didn't  call  him.  Once  you  let  it  go  a  month.  February,  right?&quot;  She  has  too  much  at  stake  tolose  her  temper  with  him.  That  would  have  been  her  familiar  next  move,  but  she  holds  it  fast,  though  her  black  thug's  boot  kicks  air.  &quot;It  costs  a  fortune.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  think  he  understood  being  abandoned  for  a  year?  Then  you  show  up  here  and  you'd  liketo  pick  up&quot;-  Dennis  snaps  his  fingers-'&quot;right  where  we  left  off.&quot;  &quot;Did  he  tell  you  he  felt  abandoned  p\xc2\xbb  by  me?  Are  those  his  words!  &quot;'The  agreement  that  you  get  him  summers  depended  on  your  trustwor-  thiness.&quot;  &quot;You're  saying  I  have  to  be  as  pre-  dictable  as  you  are,  Dennis.  You're  saying  I  should  never  have  had  George  in  my  life.  I  don't  think  that  was  the  agreement.&quot;  A  sortof  ongoing  record  oftheir  exchange-the  conversation  as  he  will replay  it  for  4672616e6365sca-runs  through  his  mind.  4672616e6365sca  listening,  taking  everything  in,  sometimes  shaking  her  head  or  marvelling  aloud,  is  his  sanity.  4672616e6365sca  illustrates  children's  books.  Christie's  mercurial  excess,  which  pre-  vents  her  carrying  anything  through  to  the  end,  and  4672616e6365sca's  serene  at-  tention  to  detail-to  root,  trunk,  twig,  and  every  small,  slanting  leaf  in  the  forest-could  not  be  farther  apart.  What  fairy  tale  is  it,  where  someone  comes  back  at  last  for  the  beloved  child?  Because  she's  never  seen  well  in  the  dark,  he  walks  Christie  out  to  her  car.  When  a  rock  trips  her,  he  catches  her  arm,  and  in  the  darkness  she  twists  to  face  him  before  shaking  off  his  hand.  She  would  rather  have  fallen.  They  could  be  any  bitter  couple  walking  in  the  woods,  tired  of  each  other,  tired  " b"of  the  way  nothing  is  ever  resolved  be-  tween  them.  He  had  thought  he  was  protected  from  such  vivid  involun-  tary  remembrance  of  her  past  lives:  her  zazen  phase,  with  its  hours  of  for-  midable  silence;  the  year  during  which  she  was  convinced  she  was  an  actress;  the  macrobiotic  diet  she  starved  herself  on;the  novel  she  finished  half  of.  There  is  an  infant's  car  seat  in  the  back  of  her  Volvo,  and  she  has  wedged  a  bag  of  groceries  in  it,  upright.  So  this  visit  really  was  on  the  spur  of  the  mo-  ment.  Leaning  into  her  window  as  she  starts  the  Volvo,  wanting  to  end  on  a  slightly  friendlier  note,  he  asks  whether  she's  found  a  place  to  live.  She  has.  A  week  ago.  In  one  of  those  apartment  complexes  where  there's  al-  ways  something  empty;  he  knows  it.  Then  she  can't  resist  circling  back  to  their  quarrel.  &quot;So  you're  saying  no  for  the  summer?&quot;  &quot;I  think  too  much  has  changed.&quot;  &quot;What's  changed  is  that  you're  even  more  judgmental  than  before.&quot;  &quot;You  hurt  him,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Dennis,  we  need  totalk  about  this  again.&quot;  She  takes  a  hand  from  the  wheel,  raking  her  hair  from  her  face,  the  dark-rimmed  glasses  picking  up  tiny  spots  of  light  from  somewhere.  &quot;I'llcall  you,&quot;  she  says,  and  he  can't  tell  her  not  to.  TONK  plunk:  something  goes  in  upstream,  where  dark  boulders  take  the  moonlight  full  force.  A  head  black  and  broad  as  a  Labrador's,  and  as  purposefully  at  home,  shaves  across  the  glassy,  swelling  smoothness  that  is  the  deepest  part  of  the  river.  A  bea-  ver,  a  big  one,  and  upwind,  or  it  would  have  known  Dennis  was  there.  The  spring  wind,  balmy  and  humid,  blows  across  the  river,  and  as  it  stirs  Dennis's  hair  there  is  that  slight,  sin-  gle  instant  in  which  he  feels  himself  blameless.  His  divorce  seems  a  tight  blacktun-  nel  he  once  forced  himself  and  Kenny  through,  fearing  each  forward  move,  fearing  still  more  getting  stuck  and  suffocating.  A  blindly  crawling  exit  from  pain,  his  shy  kid  shoved  along  before  him.  So  Kenny  loves  motor-  cycles,  which  do  not  creep,  which  pro-  claim  in  every  line  speed  and  certainty.  Christie  didn't  ask,  or  didn't  think  she  could  ask,  to  see  Kenny's  room.  Dennis  believes  it  tells  everything  about  Kenny:  photo-realist  motorcycles,  chrome  and  highly  evolved  threat,  grace  the  walls,  along  with  a  frail  Kafka  razor-bladed  from  a  library  book,  a  sin  so  small  and  so  unprec-  edented  that  Dennis  uncharacteris-  tically  forgot  to  mention  it  to  him.  If  Kenny's  motorcycle  paintings  are  de-  pressing,  surely  jug-eared  Kafkaprom-  ises  complexity,  contradiction,  hope?  When  he  was  a  little  boy,  Kenny  painted  houses  with  peaked  roofs,  sur-  realcats  and  dogs  and  birds,  petro-  glyph  parents-Dennis  and  Christie-  with  their  hands  linked  over  the  head  of  a  smaller,  round-eyed  creature,  Kenny  himself.  Orange  sun,blue  house,  green  grass,  all's  well.  The  garish  houses  dwindled;  the  figures  grew  dwarfish  and  highly  detailed  and  began  carrying  machine  guns;  Dennis  and  Christie  were  replaced  by  superbly  muscled  superheroes  trouncing  bad  guys  and  aliens,  and  Kenny  was  seven.  Ten  was  the  year  of  the  divorce.  Thir-  teen  is  this  plague  of  motorcycles,  Leo's  flawless  smile,  and  hanging  out  at  the  mall.  Oddly-at  least  Dennis  wouldn't  have  predicted  it-Kenny  wrote  regularly  to  his  mother  in  [REDACTED].  Because  Kenny  didn't  seem  to  consider  them  particularly  private,  and  he  was  curious,  Dennis  sometimes  read  the  letters.  The  light  of  the  com-  puter  screen  glowed  on  his  son's  clear  forehead.  He  wanted  her  to  know  that  he  liked  having  a  little  sister.  He  wanted  her  to  know  that  he  thought  about  her.  He  really  worked  on  the  letters.  None  of  the  obvious  things  (When  was  she  coming  home?  Ever?)  were  in  the  letters.  His  son  knew  by  thirteen  not  to  ask  Christie  certain  questions.  T  the  kitchen  table  Dennis  eats  slices  of  bologna  folded  into  cold  tortillas  and  drinks  a  beer,  then  scrapes  and  washes  the  day's  dishes  while  the  twins'  bottles  come  bobblingly  to  a  boil  " b"on  the  back  of  the  stove.  When  Gavin  wails,  Dennis  climbs  the  cantilevered  stairs.  Tim  howls,  coming  to  con-  sciousness  alongside  his  brother.  Den-  nis  lights  a  candle,  his  habit  sothat  the  overhead  light  won't  dazzle  4672616e6365sca,  blinking  awake.  Dennis  lays  Gavin  and  Tim  side  by  side  on  the  bed.  Fran-  cesca  sits  up.  Theirs  is  a  four-handed  assembly  line,  the  twins'  bottoms  bared,  wiped,  and  diapered,  neither  boy  cry-  ing,  both  staring  from  their  giant  calm  father  to  their  giant  calm  mother,  who  are  talking  softly  together.  4672616e6365sca  takes  Gavin;  he  can't  lunge  at  the  breast  fast  enough,  and  she  laughs  down  at  him.  Though  they're  almost  over  the  cold,  the  twins'  breathing  re-  mains  raspy.  The  wings  of  4672616e6365sca's  nose  are  coarsely  red,  and  her  chest  has  the  tonicstink  of  Vicks  Vaporub,  which  neither  boy  seems  to  mind.  Dennis  cradles  Tim,  leaning  back  in  an  old  chair  whose  upholstery  is  a  kind  of  friendly  maroon  moss  worn  away,  on  the  arms,  in  matching  bald  spots  his  elbows  rest  in  as  he  angles  the  bottle  up.  Tim's  warm  head  rests  in  a  hand  large  enough  to  cup  it  completely.  What  weight  was  ever  this  good?  A  baseball  fresh  from  the  sporting-goods  store,  or  his  high-school  girlfriend's  breasts  released  from  chilly  white  bra  cups  ina  dark  Chevrolet.  Maybe.  4672616e6365sca  is  uneasy,  Dennis  can  tell.     She  isn't  sure  she  understands  exactly  what  is  wrong,  though  he's  told  her  everything  that  was  said.  He  says,  &quot;She  can't  have  him  this  summer.&quot;  &quot;Kenny  has  a  father  end  a  mother.&quot;  That  lightly  stressed  &quot;ond&quot;  is  criti-  cism,  and,  subtle  as  it  is,  it  stirs  him  to  argue,  &quot;You  wouldn't  know  that  by  the  last  year.&quot;  &quot;She  was  far  away.&quot;  &quot;That's  no  excuse,&quot;  he  says,  know-  ing  she  knows  it's  not,  having  ad-  vanced  it  only  so  that  they  could  both  examine  its  weakness-could  see,  through  the  excuse's  transparency,  Christie's  habitual  irresponsibility.  For  a  time  they  sit  quietly,  each  with  an  urgently  sucking  baby,  until,  in  Den-  nis's  arm,  Tim  yawns,  a  thumb  gliding  into  his  mouth,  his  body's  weight  go-  ing  sated  and  more  vague,  so  that  it's  only  a  matter  of  settling  him  into  the  crib.  Then  Dennis  leans  to  take  Gavin.  This  is  tense,  because  Gavin's  crying,  if  he  starts,  will  rouse  his  brother,  but  Gavin  sleeps.  Ah,  silence.  &quot;We're  good,&quot;  Dennis  says,  and  the  answer  is  an  amused,  complicitous,  &quot;Good?  Great.&quot;  He  sits  on  the  bed,  not  ready  yet  to  climb  under  the  covers,  some  chord  in  him  still  vibrating  at  a  tense,  post-Christie  pitch.  4672616e6365sca  stretches,  then  narrows  her  attention  until  it  includes  only  him.  To  do  this,  she  very  deliberately  excludes  sleep.  The  intense,  the  velvety  deep  desirabil-  ity  of  unbroken  sleep  is  what  Dennis  senses  most  strongly  whenever  he  enters  this  room.  In  any  competition  he  wages  for  her  against  sleep,  sleep's  go-  ing  to  win.  It  has  only  to  lap  inward  from  the  dark  corners  of  the  room  to  close  over  her  head,  and  she  has  only  to  let  herself  slide  luxuriously  under,  while  what  he  wants,  in  wanting  to  make  love,  would  ask  effort  ofher,  and  an  energy  she  doesn't  have.  &quot;Showing  up  here  with  no  warn-  ing,&quot;  4672616e6365sca  says.  &quot;It  was  weird.&quot;  &quot;No  wonder  you  resent  it,  but  what  convinced  you  she  can't  have  Kenny?&quot;  &quot;She's  lost  the  French  boyfriend.&quot;  4672616e6365sca  says,  &quot;What  has  that  got  to  do  with  it,  really?&quot;  &quot;How  many  guys  does  Kenny  get  to  see  come  and  go?&quot;  &quot;In  three  years  there's  been  George.  Not  exactly  promiscuous.&quot;  &quot;Now  Kenny  has  a  sister  he  knows  only  from  pictures.&quot;  &quot;'The  sister  was  born  in  [REDACTED],&quot;  she  says  reasonably.  &quot;Kenny  can  get  to  know  her  here.&quot;  He  wants  4672616e6365sca  on  his  side,  not  mediating  between  him  and  Christie.  &quot;'She  kept  talking  in  non  sequiturs.&quot;  He  places  his  hands,  palms  facing,  in  the  air  before  her,  implying  the  gaps  between  what  Christie  said  and  what  she  said  next,  but  Fran-  cesca  leans  forward  until  his  hands  slide  into  a  caressof  her  face,  until,  with  two  fingers,  he  tucks  hair  behind  an  ear,  and  then  idly  revolves  the  pearl  resting  against  that  ear's  lobe,  as  if  he  were  turning  a  tiny  screw,  tightening  some  con-  nection  that  had,minutely,  loosened.  &quot;What's  her  baby's  name?&quot;  &quot;Emma.&quot;  He  feels  strange,  saying  it.  &quot;I'd  hate  to  see  you  be  so  unforgiving  toward  me,&quot;  she  says.  After  a  time  he  tells  her  thoughtfully,  &quot;I  couldn't  be,&quot;  but  she's  asleep,  her  mouth  slightly  open,  an  arm  flung  out  before  her,  her  fingers  lightly  touching  the  wall,  her  entire  body  relaxed,  loose,  as  lost  as  if  she  floated  overhead  in  a  Cha-  gall,  her  nightgown  trailing,  " b"leaving  him  and  the  sleeping  babies  below,  stars  around  her.  HE  next  afternoon  Kenny  comes  in,  home  from  somewhere,  on  his  way  somewhere  else,  and  is  struck  enough  by  his  father's  expression  to  say,  &quot;You  look  weird.&quot;  Dennis,  lying  back  on  his  son's  unmade  bed  under  the  portrait  of  a  glitteringly  malign  Har-  ley-Davidson,  squeezing  a  racquetball  in  his  left  hand,  answers,  &quot;Your  mom's  back.&quot;  Two  squeezes  of  the  ball  before  Kenny  risks,  &quot;Yeah?&quot;  He  is  careful  not  to  let  slip  how  pleased  he  is,  but  in  a  lilting  involuntary  movement,  younger  than  he  is,  he  goes  up  on  his  toes,  his  long  legs  braced,  and  bounces,  one  arm  holding  the  other  arm  at  the  elbow.  Dennis  says,  &quot;Yes.  Just  last  week.  She  was  here  last  night.&quot;  &quot;Is  that  what's  wrong  with  you?&quot;  &quot;What's  wrong  with  me  is  no  sleep  and  I  didn't  shave  and  that  makes  me  feel  old.&quot;  He  dents  the  blue  racquetball  with  his  thumb  and  it  oozes  back  into  its  sphere  as  he  remembers  that  when  his  own  father  used  to  say  he  felt  old  it  was  a  threat  that  Dennis  suffered  with  an  obscure  and  embarrassed  guilt.  He  reads  in  his  son  the  same  stiffen-  ing,  the  same  resentment,  as  Kenny,  at  his  dresser,  fidgets  a  drawer  open  and  shut,  and  Dennis  says  to  his  back,  appealing  to  the  cocky  set  of  the  shoul-  ders  and  the  vulnerability  of  the  nape  exposed  by  the  Leo-like  haircut,  &quot;Look,  I  wanted  you  to  know,  but  I  was  thinking  you  could  spend  the  sum-  mer  here.  With  us.&quot;  &quot;You  hate  her,&quot;  Kenny  says  in-  tensely,  talking  down  into  the  drawer,  and  Dennis  starts  to  say,  &quot;Kenny,  no,  that's  not  right,&quot;  when  Kenny  strips  off  his  T-shirt,  tearing  it  over  his  dark  head,  its  shapely  unknowable  stubborn-  ness  so  much  like  his  mother's,  and  Dennis  sees  the  violent  bruise  marbling  his  son's  arm.  The  bruise  resolves  into  a  tattoo  of  a  skeleton  on  a  motorcycle,  leaning  forward  as  if  into  wind,  black  eye  sockets,  spiked  helmet.  Death,  grinning  on  the  freckled  curve  of  ado-  lescent  biceps.  Dennis  slams  the  rac-  quetball  at  the  wall.  It  caroms  past  Kenny's  shoulder.  &quot;Dad!&quot;  Kenny  cries,  like  a  child,  and  Dennis  is  up,  taking  two  fast  steps,  grabbing  the  arm.  Kenny  twists  away  to  stand  against  the  wall,  cornered.  &quot;My  God,  it's  ugly.&quot;  Dennis  hears  the  hoarseness  of  his  own  voice,  the  sound  of  a  father's  barely  controlled  anger.  &quot;I  didn't  want  to  believe  it  was  real.  Was  this  Leo's  idea?&quot;  &quot;No,  it  was  mine.  Dad,  it  didn't  hurt.  The  needles  were  really  clean.  I  watched  the  guy  sterilize  them.  That's  the  first  thing  you  see  when  you  walk  into  his  place,  this  big  sterilizer.  Dad,  it's  my  body.  You  would  have  said  no.  You  know  you  would  have  said  no.&quot;  It's  my  body.  Dennis  can't  believe  that.  He  can't  conceive  of  having  no  say  in  what  happens  to  this  body,  in  no  longer  being  needed  to  protect  it.  Kenny  is  five,  shuddering  in  his  arms;  he  has  fallen  into  a  doorjamb,  slitting  open  his  lower  lip,  and  for  some  reason  Dennis  is  catching  the  blood  in  his  hand.  Kenny  is  two,  shrieking  down  at  his  own  bare  leg  as  the  needle  eases  in.  The  nurse  has  told  Dennis,  who  wanted  to  hold  Kenny  in  his  lap,  fac-  ing  his  chest,  that  it's  better  if  Kenny  sees  that  it's  the  nurse  who's  hurting  him.  That  way  Kenny  won't  come  to  distrust  his  own  father.  &quot;What  does  it  mean?&quot;  Dennis  asks.  &quot;It  doesn't  mean  anything.  It's  just  cool.&quot;  &quot;You're  thirteen  yearsold,&quot;  Dennis  says,  &quot;and  you'll  be  living  with  this  the  rest  of  your  life.&quot;  &quot;I  want  to  live  with  it.&quot;  Kenny  pulls  on  a  black  T-shirt  from  his  drawer,  and  the  tattoo  disappears  under  a  sleeve.  What  he's  defensive  about,  it  hits  Dennis,  is  that  he  does  not  regret  the  grinning  little  leather-jacketed  death  on  its  motorcycle.  Part  of  him  " b"would  like  to  drum  up  regret  if  that's  the  clue  tohis  father's  forgiveness,  but  the  truth  is  he's  now  too  old  to  summon  emotion  on  demand,  and  too  honest  to  fake  it,  without  being  insulated  enough  to  fight  his  father  without  a  fair  amount  of  pain.  Dennis  catches  himself  making  an  abrupt  accommodating  shift,  with  this  insight,  in  the  direction  of  understanding  his  son  as  someone  strictly  separate  from  him.  Perhaps  the  tattoo  has  accomplished  what  it  was  meant  to.  Perhaps  it  was  meant  to  be  something  that  couldn't  be  undone  and  something  he  couldn't  possibly  like  about  his  child.  That's  it.  His  adora-  tion  has  been  unconditional.  He's  made  Kenny  have  to  wrestle  it  off.  Some-  thing  has  changed  between  them,  and  here  Kenny  is,  watching  him  covertly  for  signs  that  this  is  over.  Over,  so  that  he  can  go.  &quot;You  were  so  perfect  when  you  were  born,&quot;  Dennis  says,  and  is  blind-  sided  by  the  idea  that  the  only  other  person  who  will  truly  mourn  that  per-  fection  as  he  does  is  Christie.  &quot;You're  grounded,&quot;  Dennis  says.  &quot;You  can't  leave  this  house.&quot;  When  the  phone  rings  that  night,  4672616e6365sca  answers  and  mouths,  &quot;It's  her.&quot;  Dennis  shakes  his  head.  Holding  Gavin  against  her  shoulder,  4672616e6365sca  mouths,  &quot;Come  on.&quot;  He  holds  his  left  hand  flat  in  the  air,  his  right  vertically  below  it,  a  &quot;T.&quot;  Time  out.  4672616e6365sca,  exasperated,  has  just  enough  grace  to  smile  at  him.  She  says,  &quot;Christie,  he  must  have  gone  out.  I  didn't  hear  him  leave.  Kenny?&quot;  Dennis  is  shaking  his  head  furiously.  &quot;Kenny's  out  with  Leo.  Sorry.  I'll  tell  them  both  you  called.&quot;  Two  nights  later,  and  this  time  4672616e6365sca's  sideof  the  conversation  is:  &quot;He  never  called  you?  I  gave  him  your  message.  I  am  sorry.  His  partner's  away,  so,  you  know.  I'm  sure  he'll  get  back  to  you  as  soon  as  he  can.&quot;  Fran-  cesca  listens  a  moment  before  adding,  &quot;I  egree  with  you  this  can't  goon  much  longer.&quot;  When  she  hangs  up,  4672616e6365sca  says,  &quot;Did  you  hear  that  last  part?&quot;  &quot;I  need  time,&quot;  he  says.  4672616e6365sca  shakesher  head,  marvel-  ling  at  his  hard  anger,  his  evasiveness,  troubled  by  how  far  he's  willing  to  take  this.  &quot;She's  not  helpless,&quot;  4672616e6365sca  says.  &quot;She  can  always  call  her  lawyer.  I  think  you  arein  the  wrong.&quot;  Without  her  on  his  side,  it  begins  to  strike  him  as  stale,  small-minded,  increasingly  indefensible,  and  a  day  later  it  comes  to  him  that  it's  time  he  talked  to  Christie.  4672616e6365sca  looks  up  from  drawing  to  kiss  him  goodbye,  relieved  at  his  decision.  He  leaves  his  office  early  to  go  to  Christie's  apartment.  It's  in  a  stucco  complex  of  separate  four-  story  buildings  spaced  around  culs-de-  sac  and  traffic  islands  spiked  with  dying  yucca.  He  knew  he  should  have  called  her  first,  but  somehow  he  never  got  around  to  it.  ''You  look  terrible,&quot;  peo-  ple  kept  telling  him  all  day,  and  he  got  tired  of  his  own  small  joke,  &quot;I  feel  much  worse  than  I  look.&quot;  Well,  she  surprised  him,  showing  up  without  warning.  Surely  she  can't  be  too  put  off  if  he  does  the  same.  When  his  knocks go  unanswered,  he  feels  around  in  the  dirt  under  aflourishing  white  gera-  nium.  Christie's  houseplants  always  thrived.  She  always  left  a  key  under  one  of  her  plants  by  the  front  door,  though  he'd  asked  hernot  to  a  thou-  sand  times.  He  lets  himself  in,  telling  himself  he's  going  to  call  out  tosee  if  she's  there  after  all,  but  once  inside  he  makes  no  sound.  Stealth,  it  strikes  him,  is  no  light  thing,  but  very  physical.  He's  breathing  faster  than  he  likes,  as  if  he'd  run  two  miles  along  the  river  road,  his  heart  banging.  Her  baby's  toys  lie  all  around.  The  bright  clutter,  for  some  reason,  makes  him  panicky.  In  his  own  house,  he  would  begin  picking  things  up;  he'd  know  how  to  go  about  setting  things  straight.  Here  he  can't.  He's  stymied  by  the  very  fact  that  he's  an  intruder.  An  intruder  is  an  unreasonable  thing  to  be.  You  are  in  the  wrong;  maybe  more  deeply  than  ever  before.  Leo's  mother  could  make  a  capital  case  out  of  this.  As  if  with  " b"   foresight,  he  dressed  for  the  part.  His  Levi's  have  a  tear  over  one  knee,  and  his  shabby  sneakers,  graywith  age,  let  him  move  lightly,  brimming  with  guilt  and  yet  slightly  high  on  it,  through  the  mess,  which  seems  to  him  evidence  of  happiness,  her  happiness,  which  he  long  ago  divorced  himself  from,  which  he  has  no  right  to  know  anything  of.  All  this,  everything  he  sees,  is  contra-  band.  A  jack-in-the-boxhas  been  left  as  it  was,  sprung  open,  the  vacantly  grinning  head  hanging  upside  down  from  the  long  caterpillarlike  sleeve  of  the  body,  and  here  is  a  naked  doll  seated  in  a  chair,  and  on  the  couch  Vanity  Fair  open  to  apicture  of  Kevin  Costner,  leaning  back,  shirt  loose,  glass  in  hand.  Dennis  feels  scathingly  appraised  by  Kevin  Costner.  On  the  farsideof  a  narrow  counter  is  the  kitchen,  furnished  in  paint-splat-  tered  furniture  she  must  have  got  at  the  Salvation  Army.  Four  straight-backed  chairs  are  dashed  with  brilliant  blue,  while  the  small  table  is  a  scarred  palette  of  yellow,  turquoise,  hot  pink,  and  sil-  ver.  It  looks  as  if  an  Abstract  Expres-  sionist  went  insane  here.  There  are  crumbs  of  burned  toast  in  the  high  chair's  tray  and  a  smear  of  apricot  jam.  The  floor  is  fifties  linoleum,  tan  tiles  with  faint  white  cirrus  drifting  across  them,  and  on  one  tile  Christie-or  someone-has  painted  a  tiny  airplane.  She  has  been  using  &quot;The  Frugal  Gourmet,&quot;  which  is  propped  open  by  her  mother's  (he  remembers)  tin  recipe  box.  In  the  refrigerator,  nothing  much  -milk,  bread,  juice,  the  usual,  and  a  half-empty  bottle  of  Beaujolais  with  the  cork  floating  in  the  wine.  She  never  handled  corkscrews  well.  Peanut  but-  ter.  Garlic,  fat  cloves  in  mauve-white  paper.  He  takes  the  garlic  out-garlic's  not  supposed  to  go  in  the  refrigerator  -but,  holding  the  crisp  little  weight,  he  doesn't  know  what  to  do  with  it.  If  he  leaves  it  out,she's  going  to  know  someone  was  here.  There's  nothing  to  do  but  put  it  back.  He  does.  Emma's  room,  sunny  and  dishev-  elled,  the  crib  against  a  wall  on  which  hangs  asmall  Amish  quilt,  its  corners  frayed,  a  powdery-pleasant  baby  smell  and  folded  clothes  in  wire  drawers  under  a  changing  table.  A  basket  of  teething  rings.  A  kazoo.  A  child's  rocker.  Balled  up  in  the  crib,  a  pairof  baby  tights  and  a  striped  sock.  A  second  small  bedroom,  darker,  shades  down,  must  be  meant  for  Kenny.  There's  something  wonderful  in  being  in  this  room,  and  he's  still  high  on  his  amazed  apprehension  of  his  own  wrongdoing,  floating  on  it,  willing  to  stay  with  it  a  little  longer  now  that  he's  come  this  far.  His  hearing  feels  hyperacute,  but  there's  nothing,  no  sound,  and  his  sense  of  what  he's  seeing  seems  mag-  nificently,  magically  clear.  He  would  never  have  known  any  of  this.  She  could  never  have  told  him.  If  she'd  wanted  to  tell  him,  he  wouldn't  have  listened.  Here  are  things  she  thinks  Kenny  will  like:  a  cowboy  bedspread,  a  glaring  African  mask,  an  aquarium  filled  with  water,  oxygen  percolating  through  it,  no  fish  yet  but  some  kind  of  seaweed  hypnotically  weaving,  and,  clinging  to  the  glass,  small  snails  black  as  capers.  A  desk  fashioned  from  a  sheet  of  melanite  laid  over  sawhorses.  A  bright-blue  dresser.  The  drawers,  when  he  opens  them,  are  empty,  except  that  the  last  drawer  contains  a  Her-  shey's  Kiss.  As  he  sits  heavily  on  the  bed,  his  exhilaration  dies.  It  doesn't  so  much  desert  him  in  a  rush  as  evaporate,  and  a  befuddling  gray  fatigue  fogs  over  the  vacuum  it  leaves  in  him.  This  stupid  midafternoon  sleepiness  feels  entirely  ordinary.  He  lies  back  on  the  bed  and  puts  an  arm  over  his  face,  breathing  in  the  smell  of  himself-slightly  sweaty,  salty  guilt.  Still  no  sound;  it  feels  good.  He  even  feels  he's  in  the  right  place.  He  dreams  a  dream  he  thinks  of  later  as  intended  for  Kenny.  Kenny  should  have  dreamed  it;  by  accidentally  falling  asleepin  this  bed,  Dennis  got  it.  In  it,  " b"Christie  is  younger,  Kenny  barely  old  enough  to  work  a  scissors,  the  two  of  them  sitting  on  the  floor  with  their  dark  heads  together,  cutting  animals  from  brilliant  paper,  the  air  between  them  charged  with  great,  disinterested  tenderness,  not  talking.  The  animals  they  cut  out  come  alive.  A  monkey  jumps  tohis  knee,  and  Kenny  giggles.  Christie  sets  a  blue  giraffe  down  on  the  floor  and  it  canters  stiffly  away.  Wak-  ing,  Dennis's  first  thought  is  that  he's  dreamed  a  dream  he  wasn't  in.  He  can't  remember  ever  having  had  such  a  dream  before.  In  some  subtle  shift  in  the  room's  shadows,  he  reads  a  new  degree  of  lateness,  of  sheer  wrongness  in  being  here,  and  his  body  responds  with  a  rising  rush  of  adrenaline,  but  he  still  doesn't  move.  He  wonders  if  what  he  really  wants  is  to  get  caught.  In  another  minute  he's  able  to  tell  him-  self,  That  would  really  be  the  height  of  stupidity,  and  sit  up.  His  body  hates  his  refusal  to  get  moving.  He  shakes  his  head  to  clear  the  last  of  the  sleep  from  it,  but  the  mysterious  peaceful-  ness  of  the  dream  still  has  a  hold  on  him.  What  he's  seen  won't  let  go  so  easily.  Back  through  the  apartment,  each  thing  in  its  place,  everything  exactly  as  he  found  it,  it  begins  to  appear  to  him  that  he's  getting  away  with  this.  He  lets  himself  out  and  finds  it  is  later  than  he  thought,  probably  six-thirty  or  so.  When  he  checks  the  parking  lot  two  stories  down,  she's  not  there:  her  dark-rimmed  glasses  aren't  aimed  upward  in  stunned  accusation,  and  though  he  fumbles,  locking  the  door,  her  Volvo  does  not  materialize.  He  twitches  geranium  leaves  out  of  the  way,  sliding  the  key  back  where  she  likes  it.  This  is  not  happiness,  just  a  gaudy  physiological  response  to  not  getting  caught-light  head,  hands  shaking,  legs  he  has  to  will  steady  to  get  himself  down  the  stairs,  world  that  looks  en-  tirely  strange.  &quot;T  THOUGHT  I  couldn't  leave  the  house  until  I  was  thirty-two,&quot;  Kenny  says,  his  feet  on  the  dash,  look-  ing  around  the  maze  of  stucco  build-  ings  he's  never  seen  before.  &quot;You  can't,&quot;  Dennis  says.  &quot;'The  one  place  you  can  come  is  here.  I  want  you  to  call  me  for  your  ride  home.  No  taking  off.  No  improvising.&quot;  &quot;But  I  can  stay  the  weekend.&quot;  &quot;You  can  stay  the  weekend  if  you  want.&quot;  (\xef\xac\x81WhyP))  &quot;I  was  wrong  before,&quot;  Dennis  says.  &quot;I  was  just  wrong.&quot;  &quot;But  how  did  you  see  you  were  wrong?&quot;  &quot;You  don't  get  to  know  all  the  de-  tails.&quot;  &quot;Does  Mom?&quot;  &quot;I  haven't  talked  to  her.&quot;  &quot;You  mean  she  doesn't  know  I'm  coming?&quot;  'She's  home.  There's  her  car,  right?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  like  surprising  her,&quot;  Kenny  says  quietly.  &quot;O.K.  You  really  don't  like  it,  we  turn  around,  we  drive  home,  we  get  on  the  phone,  we  arrange  this  for  some  other  time.  Is  that  how  you  want  to  do  this?&quot;  He  hesitates,  and  then  says,  as  qui-  etly,  &quot;I  guess  so.&quot;  Dennis  starts  the  car;  maybe  this  was  a  bad  idea,  but  he'd  liked  the  feel  of  it.  He'd  wanted  to  change  things  all  at  once.  He'd  wanted  the  suddenness  of  the  reversal  on  his  sidein  convincing  Christie  that  things  were  going  to  be  different  from  now  on,  and  he  hadn't  guessed  that  it  might  be  Kenny  who  didn't  like  the  idea,  who  seemed  unprepared  for  it.  &quot;Stop,&quot;  Kenny  says,  removing  his  feet  from  the  dash,  sitting  up.  &quot;I'm  going.  O.K.?&quot;  &quot;Whatever  you  want  to  do.&quot;  &quot;I'll  call  you.&quot;  &quot;Call.&quot;  He's  gone.  He's  on  the  stairs,  bag  on  his  shoulder,  lighter-footed  than  his  father  can  remember  ever  being,  taking  the  two  flights  of  stairs  as  if  they  were  nothing.  Then  Christie  is  at  the  door  in  black  jeans,  a  man's  T-shirt  huge  on  her,  her  son  taller  than  she  is.  That  she's  amazed  is  clear  in  every  line  of  her  body.  She  and  Kenny  don't  step  nearer  or  embrace.  They  just  stand  talking,  and  then  Dennis  sees  Chris-  tie  move  to  her  porch  rail,  looking  down  at  him  bewildered,  and  he  waves  at  her,  a  wave  that  means  I  can't  ex-  plain  it. "