 b"In [REDACTED] I would never run across  people  like  him;  they  fly  in  circles  too  lofty  for  me  to  reach.  And  the  Soviets  are  still  reluctant  to  let  such  a  person  visit  Tel  Aviv.  As  an  \xc3\xa9migr\xc3\xa9,  I'd  only  encounter  them  in  Europe,  here  in  [REDACTED]  or  in  [REDACTED].  But  somehow  I  can  never  get  used  to  them-it  is  either  their  casual  familiarity,  as  if  nothing  untoward  had  occurred,  or  the  reverse,  the  long,  tragic  face,  as  if  you  were  attending  your  own  funeral.  That  [REDACTED]  was,  for  me,  irrecoverable  was  never  discussed,  as  if  the  two  of  us  just  happened  to  be  in  [REDACTED]  for  a  while  and,  whereas  he  had  to  get  back  shortly,  certain  urgent  business  compelled  me  to  stay  on.  At  least  he  didn't  launch  into  the  predict-  able  discourse  on  the  destiny  of  the  [REDACTED]  as  seen  through  527573736961n  eyes,  the  standard  counterblast  to  \xc3\xa9migr\xc3\xa9  ideas  on  the  destiny  of  [REDACTED]  as  seen  through  43616e616461ern  eyes.  His  own  eyes  were  semi-transparent,  dangerous,  feeling,  as  though  if  you  peered  deeply  into  them  myopia  would  set  in  and  you'd  never  find  your  way  out.  But  he  kept  those  eyes averted;  he  wasn't  at  ease  either.  He  didn't  know  how  to  behave  with  me.  I  flattered  myself  that  he  might  be  feeling  some  shame  in  my  presence.  But  perhaps  I  was  merely  assigning  him  noble  feelings  to  put  myself  in  a  good  light.  Or  it  may  have  been  an  effect  of  the  difference  in  our  status:  he  was,  after  all,  an  industrial  expert  on  an  official  ex-  change  visit,  the  holder  of  a  great  state  prize,  the  honored  representative  of  Soviet  history,  whereas  I,  a  wandering  \xc3\xa9migr\xc3\xa9,  had  been  consigned  by  that  same  state  to  the  blacklist  with  the  dubious  label  of  &quot;rootless  cosmopolite.&quot;  Even  that  term  belonged  to  his  vocabulary,  not  mine-the  vocabulary  of  theold  wartime  Stalinist  generation.  But,  like  most  exiles,  I  was  given  to  striking  up  acquaintance  with  strangers,  and  in  hopes  of  being  understood  and  accepted  I  would  slavishly  accommodate  myself  to  their  speech.  For someone  like  me,  our  meeting  had  the  air  of  an  ideological  duel;  he,  on  the  other  hand,  must  have  found  my  agitation  fascinating.  He  would  keep  his  eyes  averted;  then  suddenly,  seemingly  offhand,  he  would  touch  my  shoulder  lightly,  or  nudge  my  elbow,  till  I  began  to  think  that  I  had  been  IN  [REDACTED]  I  would  never  run  wide  of  the  mark  in  imagining  any  kind  of  official  arrogance  in  his  actions,  or  calculated  condescension  in  his  conversation.  Not  that  there  was  any  real  conversation.  Actually,  I  couldn't  understand  why  we  were  meeting  at  all.  He  had  introduced  himself  as  the  uncle  of  my  wife's  high-school  sweetheart  back  in  [REDACTED].  To  that  I  found  little  to  say;  I  thought  of  Yesenin's  line:  &quot;I  am  your  nephew,  you  are  all  my  uncles,&quot;  and  Eichenvald's:  &quot;All  men  are  brothers;  me,  I'm  a  cousin.&quot;  But  poetry  was  not  one  of  his  interests.  On  the  other  hand,  he  wasn't  taking  the  occasion  to  make  the  usual  Soviet  visitor's  request  for  either  of  the  naked  truths  that  [REDACTED]  banned:  Solzhenitsyn's  books  or  Soho's  porn  displays.  We  were  sitting  in  his  seedy  hotel  room  looking  at  one  another  with  the  simulated  amicability  of  the  dentist's  waiting  room.  I  couldn't  make  out  why  he  said  nothing - was  it  fear,  plain  indifference,  or  some  inherent  inability  to  start  up  a  conversation?  I  repeated  to  myself  my  wife's  admonitions  on  similar  occasions:  Don't  worry  about  him,  he's  been  in  this  situation  before;  he'll  tell  you  what  he  wants  soon  enough.  He  was  clearly  not  at  all  discomfited  by  the  protracted  pause,  and  like  anyone  accustomed  to  an  iron  curtain  of  silence  he  transferred  to his  companion  the  sense  of  guilt  for  the  break  in  communication.  It  is  in  the  nature  of  words  to  abhor  silence;  forgetting  my wife's  injunctions,  I filled  the  air  with  overexcited  and  largely  inconsequential  talk:  &quot;What  really  amazes  me  is  my  indifference.  Actually,  when  I  do  feel  drawn  to  [REDACTED]  it's  the  earlier  [REDACTED]  I  picture.  What  goes  on  there  now,  in  fact,  doesn't  really  interest  me  much.  I  mean,  even  the  old  notion  that  it's  the  people  who  stayed  behind  who  betrayed  us,  and  we  \xc3\xa9migr\xc3\xa9s  are the  heroes  carrying  on  the  battle  without  them-even  that  seductive  old  idea  has  lost  its  savor;  those  who  betrayed  us  are  no  longer  crucial  to  our  happiness.  If  we  get  homesick,  it's  not  for  our  actual  home  but  the  home  of  memory.&quot;  &quot;As  to  life  in  [REDACTED]&quot;-he  finally  resolved  to  interrupt  my  rambling  meditations-&quot;I  would  quote  from  a  poem  I  prize  highly - Mezhirov:  'The  acts  we  put  on  may  be  sham,  but  you  have  to  remember  we're  working  with-  outa  safety  net-one  false  step  and  we're  smashed  to  smithereens.'  &quot;  I  was  silent.  Well,  of  course.  To  hear  them  talk,  their  only  concern  is  Absolute  Truth,  unlike  the  materialistic  [REDACTED],  with  its  relativism  and  hypocrisy;  prophetic  fire,  the  endless  task,  all  that.  They  might  lie  to  each  other,  but  it's  always  about  great  matters,  for  noble  purposes;  perhaps  superficially,  to  the  outsider's  eye,  things  don't  look  right,  but  deep  down  inside  it's  all  real  and  true.  &quot;Smashed  to  smithereens&quot;-the  danger  justifying  the  ends  end  the  means.  Yes  indeed.  I  just  hoped  he  wasn't  going  to  start  discoursing  about  &quot;inner  freedom.&quot;  It  seemed  it  was  business  as  usual  back  there.  &quot;The  day  they  acknowledge  what  they  did  in  the  Hitler-Stalin  Pact,  that's  the  day  I'll  ...&quot;  I  began,  but  I  dried  up.  I  recognized  that  look.  My  father,  a  Communist  and  a  Jew,  who  lost  a  leg  in  the  war,  used  to  look  at  me  that  way  when,  in  the  heat  of  argument,  I  would  blurt  that  if  Hitler  hadn't  stirred  up  527573736961n  patriotism  Stalin  and  the  whole  Soviet  system  would  have  gone  into  the  dustbin  of  history  long  ago.  I  wasn't  afraid  of  my  father's  belt,  much  less  his  raised  voice,  but  his tears  made  me  feel  terrible.  It  was  with  those  same  eyes,  those  pink -  tinged  lids,  that  the  Muscovite  visitor  looked  at  me  now.  That  was  the  worst  thing,  that  defenseless  look  of  a  person  who  suddenly  realizes  he  is  being  viewed  critically.  I  shouldn't  have  mentioned  the  war.  That  glance  had  " b"betrayed  a  bitter  nostalgia  for  those  days.  For  him,  the  war  must  have  been  a  unique  period  of  freedom,  when  fate  had  granted  his  spirit  the  gift  of a  genuine  patriotism;  when  it  had  been  possible  to  defend  the  fatherland  with-  out  orders  from  above  ora  pistol  in  the  back  of  the  neck:  when  he  was  issued  a  gun  of  his  own  and  bullets  to  strike  down  what  were  enemies  of  the  people  in  the  true  sense  of  the  term,  not  in  Stalin's.  He  might  have  been  my  own  father-and  I  had  absolutely  nothing  to  say  to  him.  &quot;Could  you  possibly  help  me  find  a  certain  little  thing  I  want  in  [REDACTED]?&quot;  he  asked  in  a  pleading  tone,  and  I  sighed  with  relief.  So-he,  too,  was  after  some  piece  of  scarce  merchandise;  he  was  no  exception  after  all.  It  just  might  have  been  conceivable  that  a  man  who'd  worked  his  way  up  to  responsible  posts,  titles,  and  decorations  could  remain  a  decent  human  even  over  there-well,  it's  nice  to  have  one's  skepticism  validated,  I  said  to  myself.  The  old  motherland  can  always  come  through  with  a  fresh  example  of  Darwinian  principle-the  evolution  of  the  worthy  idealistic  Bolshevik  model  into  an  ape  of  material  greed  in  response  to  his  environment.  Determinism  shaping  subspecies  Homo  sovieticus - an  animal  with  a  highly  spiritual  ideological  mask  over  a  primitive  avaricious  grimace.  Yes,  squirm  as  you  like,  you  grow  the  way  conditions  ordain.  It's  pitiable,  I  suppose.  But  somehow  my  own  spirit  wasn't  up  to  purging  its  revulsion.  &quot;You  couldn't  take  me  to  Oxford  Street,  could  you?&quot;  asked  the  Soviet  gent  when  I,  despite  my  interior  harangue,  spoke  aloud  of  my  readiness  to  help.  &quot;What  part  of  Oxford  Street?&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Where  the  shops  are.&quot;  &quot;It's  all  shops.&quot;  &quot;Fine,  let's  go  there,  then.&quot;  He  added  in  a  confidential  whisper,  &quot;I  want  some  hooks.&quot;  &quot;Hooks?  What  sortof  hooks?&quot;  I  asked,  somewhat  flabbergasted.  &quot;Fishing  hooks,&quot;  he  explained  imperturbably  and,  rising  slightly  from  his  chair,  poked  two  fingers  into  an  inconspicuous  watch  pocket  in  his  trousers;  there  was  something  tucked  away  in  there,  deep  down,  that  refused  to  be  brought  to  light.  At  last  he  withdrew  a  cellophane  packet  about  the  size  of  a  matchbox.  It,  inturn,  contained  a  piece  of  paper  torn  from  a  school  exercise  book  and  folded  into  four.  I  followed  all  these  operations  as  if  watching  a  conjurer  at  work.  He  proffered  the  folded  note.  On  it  enigmatic  English  words  and  names  had  been  written  with  calligraphic  exactitude;  to  the  left  of  these  was  a  no  less  puzzling  column  of  figures  with  hieroglyphic  curlicues-or  were  they  drawings?  It  all  looked  like  some  spy  cipher  to  me,  and  only  served  to  intensify  the  false  atmosphere  of  intimacy  be-  tween  us.  Could  he  possibly  have  been  sent  by  [REDACTED]  to  recruit  me  into  the  K.G.B.'s  527573736961n  Literature  Service,  as  we  called  it-to  ask  me  to  add  my  reports  on  [REDACTED]  \xc3\xa9migr\xc3\xa9  activity  to  the  files  stacked  inside  the  world's  biggest  humanities  collection,  the  Lubyanka  security  headquarters?  I  looked  up  in  alarm.  &quot;It's  a  list.  English  fishing  hooks  with  sizes.  Can  you  give  me  a  hand?&quot;  He  moved  his  finger  about  the  paper.  Once  again  I  began  to  flounder  in  that  translucent  gaze,  trying  to  swim  out  of  turbid  water,  keeping  clear  of  whirl-  pools  and  shoals.  They'd  obviously  gone  off  their  heads  over  there,  perched  with  their  \xc3\xa9lite  salaries  beside  the  well-  stocked  ponds  at  their  Politburo  country  dachas.  Couldn't  they  manage  with  Soviet  hooks?  They  must  figure  that  even  the  cunning  old  pike  of  527573736961n  folklore  could  never  resist  an  elegant,  unbreakable  English  hook.  Maybe  they  heard  of  them  in  the  handbook  by  Aksakov,  our  nineteenth-century  Compleat  Angler;  for  all  his  Slavophile  outlook,  he  may  have  gone  Anglophile  himself  when  it  came  to  recommending  fishhooks.  &quot;I  can't  go  back  to  [REDACTED]  without  hooks,&quot;  whimpered  this  man,  this  apparent  adult.  There  it  was  again:  Soviet  civilization  turns  everybody  into  a  child  where  things  are  concerned;  things  are  the  toys of  civilization,  and  the  citizen  of  a  vast  country  that  hasn't  many  of  them  acts like  a  deprived  child.  You  feel  sorry  for  him,  and  irritated,  and  you  know  you  can't  shake  him  off.  Ridiculing  their  puritanism  as  sham,  though,  is  like  calling  a  hungry  man  a  hypocrite  for  taking  a  job  advertising  meat on  a  sandwich  board.  Like  children  everywhere,  they  simply  " b"must  have  material  proof  of  their  own  idealism;  thus  Soviet  people  are  materialistic  idealists.  Children  have  to  be  indulged,  life  won't  give  them  a  chance  like this  again - so  we  strode  out  the  door  in  search  of  English  fishhooks.  [REDACTED]  was  deluged  in  one  of  those  spinning  storms  of  rain  and  light  you  find  only  on  this  island,  where  the  wind  blows  from  four  directions  at  once  and  you  never  know  which  way  to  turn  to  shield  your  eyes  from  the  blinding  droplets.  We  hung,  as  it  were,  in  the  timelessness  of  streaming  rain,  detached  from  the  earth,  pressed against  one  another,  heads  bent  together  like  a  pair  of  lovers:  he'd  left  his  umbrella  in  the  hotel.  We  couldn't  be  bothered  to  go  back  for  it,  so  the  hurricane  of  rain  and  wind  bore  us  along  the  side  streets  under  one  umbrella.  The  closer  we  became  welded  by  the  weather,  the  more  alien  I  sensed  his  body  to  be,  pressed  against  my  shoulder  in  his  smelly  gabardine  mackintosh  and  the  sort  of  tartan  cap  that  unversed  tourists  take  to  be  typically  English.  He  grated  on  me  because  of  the  absence  of  physical  distance  between  us;  I  couldn't  get  free  of  him.  To  do  that  I would  have  to  snag  him  with  those  special  hooks,  and  we  simply  could  not  find  any.  These  hooks  turned  out  to  be  most  rare  and  intricate,  and  the  salesmen  startlingly  ignorant  and  rude.  As  we  trudged  for  mile  after  mile  along  shopping  streets,  I  subsided  into  a despairing  resentment.  I  shook  feverishly,  either  because  of  the  penetrating  wind  or  because  of  the  intense  exasperation  I  felt  at  the  whole  enterprise  I'd  been  dragged  into  by  that  old  business  between  my  wife  and  the  nephew  of  this  Soviet  fisherman.  One  umbrella  was  clearly  inadequate:  my  companion  was  wearing  a  decent  raincoat  at  least,  whereas  I  had  casually  donned  a  corduroy  jacket,  which,  as  it  absorbed  the  moisture,  grew  heavier  and  heavier,  like  an  old  soak  under  the  Charing  Cross  arches.  My  back  ached,  my  shoes  squished,  my  throat  was  raw,  and  I  cursed  the  Soviet  regime  for  its  false  liberalism  in  letting  perverts  with  English-fishhook  fetishisms  loose  on  [REDACTED],.  We  advanced  in  rushes,  dashing  through  one  glassy  curtain  of  rain  only  to  run  into  another,  and  as  we  halted  to  catch  our  breath  in  this  jerky  course  we  seemed  to  be  on  different  landings  of  the  same  flight  of  stairs.  No,  it  was  as  if  two  glass-cabined  elevators  had  stopped  for  a  second  in  a  dark  shaft  and  we  gazed  at  one  another  through  their  walls:  was  it  even  conceivable  we  both  lived  under  the  same  roof?  Bound  together,  kin  forever?  That  was  all  I  needed  of  hell.  &quot;Don't  worry,  I'm  not  trying  to  persuade  you  to  go  back,&quot;  said  my  Soviet  gent.  He  didn't  mean  to  the  Old  Country,  he  meant  to  Oxford  Street,  which  we  had  left  farther  and  farther  behind-a  mistake,  in  his  view,  since  all  shops  that  could  possibly  exist  must  be  there.  I  could  have  no  objection:  I  really  didn't  know  where  to  go  next.  I'd  got  well  off  my  planned  route.  &quot;I  know  what  this  rain  reminds  me  of,&quot;  he  said,  wiping  his  face  with  a  handkerchief  as  we  were  waiting  out  the  next  squall  under  an  arch  at  Piccadilly  Circus.  &quot;This  [REDACTED]  rain  reminds  me  of  mosquito  netting  and  the  evening  mist  after  a  hot  day  at  the  dacha.  It's  just  come  back  to  me:  your  wife  used  to  visit  my  nephew  at  the" b"dacha.  That  was  where  I  first  saw  her,  maybe  the  last  time,  too.  A  slim  schoolgirl  she  was,  like  a  dandelion.  They  were  walking  together  arm  in  arm,  toward  the  terrace.  Through  a  sort  of  haze  like  this  rain.I  was  sitting  with  my  sister  on  the  terrace.  Mist  all  round,  you  know,  makes  distances  hard  to  judge.  Mosquitoes  and  moths  were  flying  around  the  lamp,  and  there  was  a  sweet  smell  of  paraffin.  I  remember  that  so  well.&quot;  He  stopped  as  if  hoping  for  an  answering  burst  of  lyricism.  As  it  was,  this  nephew,  whoever  he  might  be,  was  getting  on  my  nerves;  &quot;&quot;Poor  boy,&quot;  my  companion  would  say  whenever  he  mentioned  my  wife's  adolescent  admirer.  I  resolved  to  curtail  these  nostalgic  evocations  of  dacha  life  at  least.  &quot;After  three  emigrations,  from  one  country  to  another,&quot;  said  I,  &quot;my  yearning  for  the  Old  Country  long  ago  lost  any  geographical  dimension.  It's  not  connected  physically  with  any  one  point  on  the  earth's  surface.  My  normal  state  of  mind,  generally  speaking,  is  rather  like  the  indisposition  of  middle  age:  it's  a  kind  of  equilibrium,  when  one  agonizing  pain  is  balanced  by  another,  newer  one,  which  we  know  perfectly  well  we'll  ignore  asa  third  one  looms  up.&quot;  &quot;But  where  on  earth  is  Eros?&quot;  he  broke  in,  as  if  rebuking  me  for  excessive  intellectualism  in  my  reflections.  He  was  pointing,  however,  at  the  wooden  hoarding  in  the center  of  the  square. Black  Eros - the  winged  messenger  with  his  arrow  of  love,  balanced  on  one  foot  on  the top  of  the  fountain  in  the  center  of  Piccadilly  Circus,  that  symbol  of  gay  old  [REDACTED] - was  gone  from  behind  the  planking.  I  had  to  explain  that  Eros  had  been  sent  off  for  restoration.  Eros  was  under  repair,  the  fountain  of  the  soul  was  dry,  only  intellect  sparkled  in  neon  signs  through  the  shrouding  rain.  [REDACTED]  was  poor  and  stingy;  everyone  was  on  his  own.  &quot;Won't  I see  Eros  at  all  this  time,  then?&quot;  He  shook  a  mournful  head.  Like  all  Soviet  tourists,  he  further  annoyed  me  with  his  rustic  raptures  over  clich\xc3\xa9  [REDACTED] - the  red  buses,  the  black  taxis,  the  bobbies  in  their  crested  helmets.  I  felt  an  imbecile  urgency  to  maintain  the  reputation  of  my  \xc3\xa9migr\xc3\xa9  life  in  those  alien  527573736961n  eyes,  as  if  to  say,  &quot;We  have  everything  here,  there's  nothing  you  can't  get.  Especially  rare  and  intricate  fishhooks.&quot;  With  a  heavy  sigh,  I  darted  into  the  swirling  rain.  It  enveloped  us  in  a  dense,  wavering  veil,  solidly  separating  off  the  rest  of  the  world,  which  might  have  been  anywhere:  England,  [REDACTED],  ancient  Rome.  I calculated  that  we  were  on    Pall  Mall,  where  that  Jules  Verne  novel  starts-what  was  it,  &quot;Twenty  Thousand  Days  Under  the  Sea&quot;  or  &quot;Eighty  Thousand  Leagues  Around  the  World&quot;?  The  snowy-white  columns  of  the  club  buildings  gleamed  through  the  bathysphere  of  rain  as  they  loomed  over  us  like  Arctic  icebergs,  mist-enshrouded,  and,  as  Captain  Nemo  might  have  done,  I  wanted  to  cry,  &quot;To  hell  with  this  mercantile  civilization!&quot;  Retreating  from  the  elements,  we  found  ourselves  in  an  arcade,  where  the  window  of  another  tackle  shop  floated  before  our  eyes  like  the  porthole  of  an  aquarium.  The  salesman  luring  us  inside  could  have  been  Captain  Nemo  himself,  ora  527573736961n  bog  monster.  He  seemed  to  be  expecting  " b"us.  He  put  on  his  tortoiseshell  glasses  and  spent  a  long  time  chewing  his  lip  over  our  crumpled  list  of  magic  figures  and  markings.  Finally  he  informed  us,  with  the  solemnity  of  an  oracle,  that  he  did  have  these  hooks  but  that  &quot;they  bend  the  other  way.&quot;  'That  doesn't  matter.&quot;  I  hastened  to  explain  this  enigmatic  phrase  to  my  companion.  &quot;It's  like  driving  on  the  left-it's  all  relative.  From  the  527573736961n  viewpoint,  they  bend  the  way  you  want,  you  see  what  I  mean?&quot;  By  way  of  visual  illustration,  I  absurdly  twisted  my  head  around  nearly  backward.  I  just  wanted  to  make  clear  that  the  problem  was  resolved  and  I  would  go  no  farther.  In  the  little  shop  it  was  dry,  rather  dark,  and  deserted  as  we  sat  down  to  wait  at  a  table  in  the  corner.  There  was  something  in that  interior  reminiscent  of  the  Ark,  pitching  under  the  lashing  assault  of  the  storm.  Around  us  were  gleaming  glass  cases  of  mounted  fish;  nets  and  harpoons  hung  in  the  corners,  fishing  poles  sprouted  everywhere  like  exotic  bam-  boo,  and,  most  important,  gigantic  show-  cases  held  hooks  of  all  sizes,  shapes,  and  tints  overlapping  like  metallic  scales.  My  com-  panion  in  his  sodden  raincoat  reminded  me  of  a shivering  dechnik,  stranded  on  a  suburban  station  platform  after  missing  the  electric  train.  And  I  remembered  where  I'd  seen  exactly  the  same  suffering  expression,  reproach  mixed  with  hope.  Those  same  grimaces  had  been  displayed  by  the old  repairman  in  the  typewriter  shop  on  Kuznetskiy  Most,  when  I  brought  my  Olympia  to  him  for  the  last  time  before  I  left  the  country.  The  very  same  heavy  rain,  Muscovite  variety,  had  be-  set  his  premises,  too,  replete  as  it  was  with  objects  no  less  exotic  than  those  in  this  tackle  shop.  How  he'd  fussed  about,  sighing  and  shaking  his  head,  when  he  found  out  what  far  lands  I  was  quitting  [REDACTED]  for.  How  he'd  started  unscrewing  the  casing  with  excessive  roughness  to  conceal  his  trembling  fingers  as  they  tugged  out  the  accumulated  dirt,  hair,  and  assorted  rubbish.  &quot;'You've  got  a  cat  at  home,  then,&quot;  he'd  grumbled.  &quot;I  can  tell  what  any  household  is  like  by  the  stuff  in  the  typewriter.&quot;  We  had  no  cats  at  home-it  was  me  going  bald,  not  a  cat-but  never  mind;  he  was  just  filling  up  a  tense  silence  with  his  mutterings.  Then  he  got  out  a  jug  of  alcohol,  but  instead  of  using  it  to  clean  the  keys  he  ran  some  tap  water  into  it  and banged  down  two  glasses.  I  remember  the  light,  acrid  smell  of  the  spirits  and  the  mustiness  of  the  basement  shop,  his  tear-filled  eyes  and  the  network  of  blood  vessels  on  his  flaccid,  alcoholic  cheeks.  And  the  dim  gleam  of the  part  in  his  brilliantined  hair.  An  hour  later,  his  hair  sticking  up  wildly  by  now,  he  was  recounting  for the  nth  time  his  exploits  as  an  air  ace.  But  finally  he  couldn't  hold  back,  he  burst  the net  of  restraint:  he  had,  he  said,  a  Tatar  friend-the  carriage  on  the  man's  typewriter  even  went  back-  wards,  the  Muslim  way-but  he  had  no  plans  to  leave,  even  though  Stalin  had  moved  A#  to  [REDACTED]  for  a  while.  What  was  wrong  with  me,  couldn't  I  sit  still?  He  and  the  Tatar  used  to  go  fishing  at  a  reservoir  a  mere  hundred  kilometres  from  [REDACTED],  and  he'd  feel  homesick  even  there;  on  the  way  back,  the  very  mention  of  [REDACTED]  made  his  heart  beat  faster.  How  could  anybody  leave-forever?  He  just  couldn't  see  that.  He'd  be  glad  to  take  me  to  that  reservoir  with  a  net,  to  get  some  big  fish.  Or  in  winter  maybe,  to  sit  out  all  night  with  a  line  through  the  ice.  He'd  found  yeriki  there,  spots  where  the  ice  seals  off  the  water  and  all  the  fish  are  caught  inside  as  in  a  bucket:  you  could  take  them  out  with  your  bare  hands.  I  remember  his  oddly  intent  stare-  and  mine,  shifty,  though  it  should  have  been  the  other  way  round.  I  remember  us  sitting  there  for  a  long  time,  like  now:  close  kin  and  at  the  same  time  totally  alien.  I  couldn't  argue  with  him,  because  the  only  ideas  he  could  comprehend  were  foreign  to  me,  and  I  can't  con-  vey  alien  thoughts  in  my  own  words.  HE  exotic  word  yeriki  had  taken  me  aback  consider-  ably-was  it  the  resonance  with  &quot;eureka&quot;?  I  even  took  the  trouble  to  consult  Dal's  dictionary.  I  felt  like  that  old  gudgeon  (or  whatever  inhabits  [REDACTED]  reservoirs),  gasping  un-  der  the  ice  in  those  yeriki.  Meanwhile  outside,  the  yellow  houses  on  Kuznetskiy  Most  were  wet  with  rain.  Yellow  houses- [REDACTED]  isn't  a  fairy-tale  snow-white  city,  it's  a  city  of  yellow  houses." b"It  was  grim  hauling  my  typewriter  home  past  those  sodden  yellow  facades;  what  sort  of  people  was  it  who  could  construe  your  longing  for  peace  of  mind  and  for  freedom  as  treachery?  I  remembered  my  fear,  not  of  treason,  or  prison,  but  of  becoming  one  of  them  myself,  the  fear  of  being  defined,  my  fate  ordained,  by  others.  But  how  I  longed  to  be  back  under  the  lowering  [REDACTED]  skies  at  this  moment;  for  any  fear  contains  the  hope  of  release  from  that  fear,  and  the  memory  of  that  feeling  of  hope,  which  accompanied  all  the  years  I  spent  there,  overcame  the  memory  of  fear.  That  insistent  sense  of  a  hope  lost  forever  is  in  itself  punishment  for  my  decision  to  free  myself  permanently  from  fear.  And  lost  along  with  that  hope  was  the  avidity  of  eye  and  finger,  the  pleasure,  with  which  this  stranger  from  my  Soviet  past  was  now  picking  over  the  shining  fishhooks  on  the  table.  It  was  for  the  sake  of  this  scene  then - to  witness  another's  appetite  for  my  new  life  when  I  myself  had  grown  blas\xc3\xa9-that  I  had  dragged  along  with  this  venerable  Soviet  official  under  an  English  cloudburst.  It  was  for  the  joy  of  recognition  in  the  eyes  of  the  other-a  perverse  sense  of  nearness,  no  matter  whether  with  friend  or  enemy.  (No  one  is  closer  to  being  a  sworn  enemy  than  your  best  friend;  the  two  can  be  almost  the  same.)  &quot;You've  saved  a  man's  life,  you  should  know,&quot;  said  the  Soviet  fellow,  looking  up  at  me  as  if  guessing  my  thoughts  about  him.  &quot;You've  saved  a  human  being.  Thank  you.&quot;  &quot;No  need  to  exaggerate,&quot;  I  managed  to  bring  out  with  affected  nonchalance.  &quot;You'd  have  survived  somehow  without  English  hooks.&quot;  &quot;Me?  I  would,  of  course.  But  what  about  my  nephew?  Poor  boy.&quot;&quot;  And  his  chin  began  to  quiver.  He  reached  for  his  handkerchief.  The  shopkeeper,  off  behind  his  counter,  gazed  through  his  tortoiseshell  glasses  at  the  vast  window  spattered  with  raindrops,  pretending  not  to  notice  our  corner  mutterings  in  some  incomprehensible  and  unreal  tongue:  for  me,  this  heightened  the  sense  of  conspiracy,  of  the  confessional,  that  surrounded  the  words  of  this  elderly  man,  who  had  suddenly  lost  all  traits  of  the  Soviet.  All  that  remained  was  his  bewilderment  at  the  perversity  of  fate  and  a  mute  plea  for  sympathy,  nothing  more.  The  mention  of  the  nephew,  again,  annoyed  me  so  much  that  at  first  I  didn't  take  in  what  he  was  saying-about  cards  and  billiards,  about  Dostoyevski's  &quot;Gambler,&quot;  a  woman,  and  underworld  [REDACTED],  and  the  odd  idea  of  escaping  from  a  politicized  world  into  some  sort  of  casino  where  stakes  were  high  and  payment  was  not  in  cash  but  in  kind- and  what  an  effort  it  had  taken  to  get  that  list  of  English  fishhooks  out  of  prison.  In  jail  they  keep  accounts  their  own  way,  he  was  saying:  you  don't  pay  up,  your  throat  gets  slit.  At  length  it  began  to  dawn  on  me  what  my  former  countryman  was  talking  about:  these  double-damned  hooks  were  not  destined  for  privileged  bureaucrats  to  go  catch  sturgeon  in  Kremlin  ponds,  no.  Lord  knows  who  would  be  fishing  with  them,  in  what  troubled  waters.  These  hooks  were  the  equivalent  of  beads  for  savages;  they  were  treasury  notes,  legal  tender,  hard  currency  in  the  jailhouse  banking  system  of  incorrigible  gamblers.  The  nephew  was  such  a  gambler,  and  he  was  in  jail.  &quot;If  I  hadn't  looked  you  up  in  [REDACTED],  the  poor  boy  ...  ,&quot;  and  he  made  a  gesture  near  his  throat.  &quot;You  know,&quot;  he  went  on,  &quot;I'd  have  washed  my  hands  of  that  boy  long  since;  he's  a  hopeless  case.&quot;  My  companion  snorted  into  his  handkerchief.  &quot;But  not  long  before  he  was  arrested  he  took  me  to  one  of  those  awful  restaurants  I  can't  stand - people  filling  their  faces,  champing,  belching,  the  orchestra  hammering  out  some  execra-  ble  stuff.  ..  .  I  looked  around  at  it  all,  and  I  quoted  a  line  from  I  think  it's  Heinrich  Heine:  'To  think  the  Re-  deemer  died  on  the  cross  for  these  swine-what  a  waste&quot;  My  nephew  smiled  a  little,  and  said,  'No,  my  dear  uncle,  your  Heine  was  wrong.  Decent  folk  can  take  care  of  their  own  salvation;  it  was  precisely  to  save  such  miserable  worms  as  these  that  the  Fisherman  got  himself  on  the  hook.&quot;  Imagine!  And  I'd  figured  that  good-  for-nothing  for  a  fool.  How  wrong  can  a  man  be?&quot;  He  began  stowing  the  English  fishhooks  about  his  person."