 b"THE  President  was  playing  bad-  minton  in  Aspen  the  day  vast  hordes  of  barbaric  Huns  invaded  [REDACTED],  and  a  reporter  whose  aunt  lives  in  Evanston  shouted  to  him  as  he  headed  for  the  clubhouse,  &quot;The  Huns  are  wreaking  carnage  in  [REDACTED],  Mr.  President!  Any  comment?&quot;  Mr.  Bush,  though  caught  off  guard  by  news  of  the  invasion,  said,  &quot;We're  following  that  whole  Hun  situation  very  closely,  and  right  now  it  looks  encouraging,  but  I'm  hop-  ing  we  can  get  back  to  you  in  a  few  hours  with  something  more  definite.&quot;  The  President  appeared  concerned  but  relaxed  and  def-  initely  chins-up  and  in  charge.  As  he  spoke,  the  good  citi-  zens  of  [REDACTED]  were  fortifying  the  Loop  and  organizing  scalding-oil  bri-  gades,  but  their  caldrons  never  gothot  enough,  and  soon  the  hordes  broke  through,  miles  of  them-wave  after  wave  of  squat,  flat-nosed  horsemenon  their  ugly  steeds  galumphing  through  the  streets,  waving  their  hairy  fists,  rolling  their  little  red  eyes  under  the  long  black  eyebrow,  grunting  and  blatting  and  howling,  bellowing  at  women  ina  coarse,  unintelligible  tongue  that  sounded  like  irate  geese.  Over  the  next  three  days,  as  addi-  tional  hordes  of  Ostrogoths,  Visigoths,  Hloths,  Wendells,  and  Vandals  swarmed  into  the  Windy  City  with  relentless,  locustlike  ferocity,  and  burned  churches  and  performing-arts  centers  and  historic  restorations,  and  dragged  away  monks,  virgins,  associate  professors,  and  postal  employees  to  be  sold  intoslavery,  and  seized  great  storesof  treasures  and  heirlooms  and  sacred  vessels,  and  tore  down  libraries  and  devastated  three-star  restaurants  and  traded  away  the  Cubs  and  Bears,  Mr.  Bush  was  said  to  be  conferring  with  John  Sununu,  meeting  with  the  Cabinet,  weighing  his  options,  on  the  verge  of  taking  some  kind  of  dramatic  action.  To  those  close  to  him  he  ap-  peared  burdened  but  still  strong,  upbeat  butnot  glib,  and  then  in  came  Robert  Teeter  with  a  poll  that  showed  that  seventy  per  cent  of  the  American  peo-  ple  thought  the  President  was  doing  an  excellent  job  with  the  barbarians.  Mr.  Bush  was  seen  as  confident  and  in  charge  butnot  beleaguered  or  vulnera-  ble  or  damp  under  the  arms,  the  way  Jimmy  Carter  was.  Most  Americans  admired  the  way  George  Bush  played  down  the  story  and  wasn't  weakened  or  distracted  by  it.  They  felt  that  he  was  doing  exactly  the  right  thing,  and  they  viewed  [REDACTED]  as  aplace  where  a  lot  of  pretty  rough  stuff  goes  on  most  of  the  time  anyway.  So  the  President  didn't  make  an  ad-  dress  to  the  nation  on  television  but  simply  issued  a  statement  that  barbari-  anism  is  a  long-term  problem  and  must  be  met  with  patience  and  wisdom,  and  the  answer  is  educa-  tion,  and  everything  that  can  be  done  is  being  done  and  will  con-  tinue  to  be  done.  It  called  for  bipartisanship.  'That  evening,  a  White  House  croquet  tournament  went  on  as  planned.  The  President  ap-  peared  calm  but  interested.  The  barbarians  made  their  squalid  camps  in  the  streets  and  took  over  the  savings-and-loan  offices.  (&quot;Savings  and  loan&quot;  sounds  the  same  as  the  Hun  word  chfnxnin,  whichmeans  hen-  house.)  They  broke  out  all  the  windows  and  covered  them  with  sheepskins,  they  squatted  in  the  offices  around  campfires  built  from  teak  and  maho-  gany  desks  and  armoires,  eating  half-  cooked  collie  haunches  and  platters  ofcat  brains  and  drinking  gallons  of  after-shave.  Their  leader,  Mogul  the  Vile,  son  of  Generic,  squatted  down  beside  a  speakerphone  on  the  thirty-  eighth  floor  of  American  National  and  called  the  White  House  and  babbled  and  screeched  for  more  than  twenty  minutes.  His  English  was  horrendous.  He  seemed  to  be  demanding  a  ransom  of  three  chests  of  gold  and  silver,  six  thousand  silk  garments,  miscellaneous  mirrors  and  skins  and  beads,  three  thousand  pounds  of  oregano,  and  a  hundred  and  sixty-six  billion  dollars  in  cash.  The  President,  who  did  not  speak  to  him  personally,  pondered  the  outra-  geous  demand.  He  appeared  quiet  but  wakeful,  thoughtful  but  not  grumpy.  On  the  one  hand,  a  major  American  city  was  in  the  hands  of  rapacious  brutes,  but,  on  the  other  hand,  exit  poll-  ing  at  shopping  malls  showed  that  peo-  ple  thought  he  was  handling  it  O.K.  So  he  flew  to  Kennebunkport  for  a  week  of  tennis  and  fishing.  He  appeared  relaxed  but  hearty,  animated  but  restrained.  A  few  days  later,  the  Hun  sacking  of  [REDACTED]  was  old  news.  It  had  al-  ready  happened.  Mr.  Bush,  in  striking  a  note  of  determination  right  at  the  beginning  and  then  refusing  to  be  stampeded  into  action,  had  out-  flanked  the  entire  story  and  avoided  any  loss  of  public  support.  The  press  covered  the  pillaging  up  north,  but  most  of  the  press  was  in  [REDACTED],  not  [REDACTED],  and  what  could  you  say  about  Huns  that  everybody  didn't  al-  ready  know?  Huns  perspire  heavily;  they  despise  agriculture  and  don't  eat  vegetables,  only  meat  and  gravy  and  desserts,  and  they  drink  bad  sweet  wine;  their  clothes  are  ill-fitting  and  covered  with  lint;  they  smell  bad  and  their  hair  is  limp  and  dull,  and  they're  ugly  as  a  mud  fence:short,  flat-faced,  thick-lipped,  illiterate,  grunty  people  with  heavy  brows,  hairy  backs,  and  no  necks.  And  their  relationship  with  the  press  is  very,  very  poor.  Everyone  knew  these  things  a  long  time  ago.  On  the  other  hand,  collie  haunches  can  be  very  tasty  if  you  braise  them  with  plenty  of  garlic  over  a  trash  fire,  and  some  reporters  who  tried  collie  wrote  long  Sunday  pieces  about  Hun  life  styles  that  concluded  they  were  barbaric,  heck  yes,  but  thrilling  and  possessed  of  a  drop-dead  visceral  au-  thenticity.  The  President  decided  not  to  inter-  fere  with  the  takeover  attempts  in  the  savings-and-loan  industry  and  to  pay  the  hundred  and  sixty-six  billion  dol-  lars,  not  as  a  ransom  of  any  type  but  as  ordinary  government  support,  plain  and  simple,  absolutely  nothing  ir-  regular  about  it,  and  the  Huns  and  the  Vandals  rode  away,  carrying  their  treasure  with  them,  and  the  Goths  sailed  away  up  Lake  [REDACTED].  Gothic  boats  are  hard  to  handle,  though,  being  built  of  stone,  with  great  high  arches  that  make  them  tippy,  and  they  all  sank  in  Lake  [REDACTED]  in  a  light  breeze,  carrying  half  the  loot  to  the  bottom,  but  not  beforethe  President's  chopper  landed  in  Grant  Park.  A  serious-faced  George  Bush  stood  at  the  water's  edge,  hair  blowing  from  the  backwash  of  the  rotor,  and  announced  that  the  barbar-  ians  had  left.  He  said  that  the  savings-  and-loan  industry  was  sounder  than  at  any  time  in  its  history.  He  announced  that  he  was  deeply  moved  by  the  hero-  ism  of  the  people  of  [REDACTED]  and  reit-  erated  his  opposition  to  barbarianism  of  any  kind  whatsoever. "