 b"STILL  sleeping?  Or  just  not  out  of  bed  yet?  I  wasn't  gone  long.  You  know,  you  can-you'll  say  you  can't,  but  you  can-read  Chinese.  May-  be  not  a  book,  but  for  sure  a  news-  paper.  In  any  language,  a  newspaper's  a  newspaper.  You  look  at  it,  you  turn  the  pages-you  can  tell  which  parts  are  the  news  and  which  parts  are  the  ads.  You  can  look  at  the  photographs.  The  drawings.  The  border  designs.  You  can  figure  out  what's  international,  what's  local,  what's  fashion,  what's  entertainment,  what's  sports,  what's  business.  Some  of  the  words  you  can  readbecause  some  of  them  they  don't  translate.  Some  people's  names  they  don't  translate.  So  you  have  a  bunch  of  Chinese  characters  and  then  you  have  a  name  like  ROY  ORBISON.  Yesterday  there  was  an  article  that  was  all  Chi-  nese  characters  except  for  roy  orBI-  SoN,  six  times.  So  most  names  they  go  ahead  and  translate,  but  others  they  don't.  And  wooLco  they  don't  trans-  late.  And  THE  SUNSHINE  STATE  they  don't  translate.  Certain  expressions  they  don't  translate-KEEP  FIT  they  don't  translate.  BYE-BYE  they  don't  translate.  Some  words  you  thinkthey  would  they  don't  translate.  pown-  [REDACTED]  they  don't  translate.  And  spa-  GHETTI  and  PASTA  they  don't  translate.  HATS  Chinese  newspapers,  but  spoken  Chinese-sometimes  in  the  coffee  and  pastry  shops  here  in  4368696e61town  I  mimic  the  words  I  hear,  but  very  softly.  If  you  do  it,  don't  get  too  loud,  because  then  it  sounds  like  an  echo,  and  people  start  looking  around.  Chinese,  spoken,  is  such  a  pleasing  language.  So  many  tones-it's  like  singing.  Since  I  don't  know  what  I'm  saying,  I  never  try  to  use  those  words  when  it  comes  my  turn  to  order.  I  say,  &quot;One  of  those,  one  of  those,  one  of  those,  one  of  those,  and  one  of  those.  And  one  of  those.&quot;  All  in  one  tone.  Not  so  pleasing.  OH,  you  learn  a  few  things  in  Chi-  natown.  One  thing  is  that  you  don't  whistle.  Because  whistling  in  4368696e61  is  what  the  blind  people  there,  the  ones  who  massaged  for  a  living,  would  do  as  they  walked  down  the  alleyways.  Like  the  ice-cream  man  here,  but  whistling,  not  bells.  And  parents  would  send  their  children  out  to  the  alleyway  to  put  their  hands  on  the  walking  sticks  of  the  blind  people  to  guide  them  into  the  houses  that  needed  their  touch.  And  in  restaurants  you  learn.  For  instance,  it  means  something  if  you're  alone  and  order  bird's-nest  soup  and  the  waiter  smiles  and  says,  &quot;Good  for  you.&quot;  If  he  tells  you  what  it  means  when  you're  alone  andyou  order  it,  you  might  change  your  mind  on  the  soup,  but  some  of  the  things  he  says  you'll  remember  exactly:  &quot;And  if  you  live  in  a  house  full  of  love  you  love  the  house.  You  love  the  bird  that  builds  its  nest  under  the  eaves  of  the  house.&quot;  Do  you  have  anything  you  want  washed?  The  laundromat  I  leave  my  stuff  at  uses  a  Chinese  kind  of  soap;  maybe  you  noticed.  When  I'm  in  an-  other  part  of  town  and  I  want  to  calm  down,  I  just  go  and  sit  by  myself  somewhere.  I  don't  actually  shut  my  eyes-I  just  keep  still  until  I  can  smell  the  soap  in  my  shirt.  WHO  knows,  who  knows  how  it  will  go?  What  you  want,  what  I  want,  and  so  on.  The  Chinese  seem  to  have  fewer  words  than  we  do.  Maybe  they  make  every  three  words  into  two-so  one  word  would  cover  &quot;want&quot;  and  &quot;desire,&quot;  and  one  would  cover  &quot;desire&quot;  and  &quot;need.&quot;  Roy  Orbison,  Roy  Orbison,  Roy  Orbison,  Roy  Orbison,  Roy  Orbison,  Roy  Orbison-right  now,  that's  all  I  can  say.  Are  you  sure  you're  awake?  Don't  you  like  mornings?  But  it's  O.K.  for  you  to  keep  sleeping  while  I  go  out  and  come  back  like  this.  W  hat's  great  about  living  in  4368696e61town  is  so  many  peo-  ple  getting  up  in  the  morning  know-  ing  what  they  want  that  Istart  want-  ing  what  they  want.  So  this  is  coffee  with  cream  and  sugar.  That's  right,  cream  and  sugar-don't  you  want  to  try  some  things  that  I  like?  I  tried  some  things  that  you  like.  Some  of  them  I  liked.  These  are  sweet  rolls,  all  differ-  ent  kinds.  And  because  I  know  that  the  world  really  doesn't-at  least  not  for  long  -go  away,  I  picked  up  some  news-  papers.  Three  published  here,  two  from  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED].  Let's  see  ...  here,  start  with  this  one.  It's  in-they  all  are,  and  now  that  you  know  you  can,  you  can  read  Chinese. "