 b"ONE  morning  in  early  March,  Mariah,  whose  children  I  had  served  as  an  au  pair  for  three  monthsnow,  saidto  me,  &quot;You  have  never  seen  spring,  have  you&quot;&quot;  And  she  did  not  have  to  await  an  answer,  for  she  already  knew.  She  said  the  word  &quot;spring&quot;  as  if  spring  were  a  close  friend,  a  friend  who  had  dared  to  go  away  for  a  long  time  and  soon  would  reappear  for  their  passionate  reunion.  She  said,  &quot;Have  you  ever  seen  daffodils  pushing  their  way  up  out  of  the  ground?  And  then  when  they're  in  bloom  and  all  massed  together,  a  wind  without  a  sharp  edge  comes  along  and  makes  them  do  a  curtsy  to  the  lawn  stretching  out  in  front  of  them.  Have  you  ever  seen  that?  When  I  see  that,  I  feel  so  glad  to  be  alive.&quot;  And  I  thought,  So  Mariah  is  made  to  feel  alive  by  some  flowers  bending  in  not  too  chilly  a  wind.  How  does  a  person  get  to  bethat  way?  I  remembered  an  old  poem  I  had  been  made  to  memorize  when  I  was  ten  years  old  and  a  pupil  at  Queen  Victoria  Girls'  School.  I  had  been  made  to  memorize  it,  verse  after  verse,  and  then  had  recited  the  whole  poem  to  an  audi-  torium  full  of  parents  and  teachers.  After  I  was  done,  everybody  stood  up  and  applauded  with  an  enthusiasm  that  surprised  me,  and  later  they  told  me  how  nicely  I  had  pronounced  every  word,  how  I  had  placed  just  theright  amount  of  special  emphasis  in  places  where  that  was  needed,  and  how  proud  the  poet,  now  long  dead,  would  have  been  to  hear  his  words  ringing  out  of  my  mouth.  I  was  then  at  the  height  of  my  two-facedness:  that  is,  outside  I  seemed  one  way,  inside  I  was  anoth-  er;  outside  false,  inside  true.  And  so  I  made  pleasant  little  noises  that  showed  both  modesty  and  appreciation,  but  in-  side  I  was  making  a  vow  to  erase  from  my  mind,  line  by  line,  every  word  of  that  poem.  The  night  after  I  had  re-  cited  the  poem,  I  dreamed,  continu-  ously  it  seemed,  that  I  was  being  chased  down  a  narrow  cobbled  street  by  bunches  and  bunches  of  those  same  daffodils  that  I  had  vowed  to  forget,  and  when  finally  I  fell  down  from  exhaustion  they  all  piled  on  top  of  me,  until  I  was  buried  deep  underneath  them  and  was  never  seen  again.  I  had  Fras  pse  forgotten  all  of  this  until  Mariah  men-  tioned  daffodils,  and  now  I  told  it  to  her  with  such  an  amount  of  anger  I  surprised  both  of  us.  We  were  standing  quiteclose  to  each  other,  but  as  soon  as  I  had  finished  speaking,  without  a  sec-  ond  of  deliberation  we  both  stepped  back.  It  was  only  one  step  that  was  made,  but  to  me  it  felt  as  if  some  motion  that  I  had  not  been  aware  of  had  been  checked.  Mariah  reached  out  to  me  and,rub-  bing  her  hand  against  my  cheek,  said,  &quot;What  a  history  you  have.&quot;  I  thought  there  was  a  little  bit  of  envy  in  her  voice,  and  so  I  said,  &quot;You  are  welcome  to  it  if  you  like.&quot;  After  that,  each  day,  Mariah  began  by  saying,  &quot;As  soon  as  spring  comes,&quot;  and  so  many  plans  would  follow  that  I  could  not  see  how  one  little  spring  could  contain  them.  She  said  we  would  leave  the  city  and  go  to  the  house  on  one  of  the  Great  Lakes,  the  house  where  she  spent  her  summers  when  she  was  a  girl.  We  would  visit  some  great  gardens.  We  would  visit  the  zoo-a  nice  thing  to  do  in  springtime;  the  children  would  love  that.  We  would  have  a  picnic  in  the  park  as  soon  as  the  first  unexpected  and  unusually  warm  day  arrived.  An  early-evening  walk  in  the  spring  air-that  was  some-  thing  she  really  wanted  to  do  with  me,  to  show  me  the  magic  of  a  spring  sky.  On  the  very  day  it  turned  spring,  a  big  snowstorm  came,  and  more  snow  fell  on  that  day  than  had  fallen  all  winter.  Mariah  looked  at  me  and  shrugged  her  shoulders.  &quot;How  typical,&quot;  she  said,  giving  the  impression  that  she  had  just  ex-  perienced  a  personal  betrayal.  I  laughed  at  her,  but  I  was  really  won-  dering,  How  do  you  get  to  be  a  per-  son  who  is  made  miserable  because  the  weather  changed  its  mind,  because  the  weather  doesn't  live  up  to  your  ex-  pectations?  How  do  you  get  to  be  that  way?  HILE  the  weather  sorted  itself  out  in  various  degrees  of  cold-  ness,  I  walked  around  with  letters  from  my  family  and  friends  scorching  my  breasts.  I  had  placed  these  letters  inside  my  brassiere,  and  carried  them  around  with  me  wherever  I  went.  It  was  not  from  feelings  of  love  and  longing  that  I  did  this;  quite  the  contrary.  It  was  from  a  feeling  of  hatred.  There  was  nothing  so  strange  about  this,  for  isn't  it  so  that  love  and  hate  exist  side  by  side?  Each  letter  was  a  letter  from  someone  I  had  loved  at  one  time  with-  out  reservation.  Not  too  long  before,  out  of  politeness,  I  had  written  my  mother  avery  nice  letter,  I  thought,  telling  her  about  the  first  rideI  had  taken  in  an  underground  train.  She  wrote  back  to  me  a  letter,  and  after  I  read  it  I  was  afraid  to  even  put  my  face  outside  the  door.  The  letter  was  filled  with  detail  after  detail  of  horrible  and  vicious  things  she  had  read  or  heard  about  that  had  taken  place  on  those  very  same  underground  trains  on  which  I  travelled.  Only  the  other  day,  she  wrote,  she  had  read  of  an  immi-  grant  girl,  someone  my  age  exactly,  who  had  had  her  throat  cut  while  she  was  a  passenger  on  perhaps  the  very  same  train  I  was  riding.  But  I  already  knew  fear.  I  had  known  a  girl,  a  schoolmate  of  mine,  and  it  was  well  known  that  her  father  had  dealings  with  theDevil.  Once,  out  of  curiosity,  she  had  gone  into  a  room  where  her  father  did  hisbusiness,  and  she  had  looked  into  things  that  she  should  not  have,  and  she  became  pos-  sessed.  She  took  sick,  and  we,  my  other  schoolmates  and  I,  used  to  stand  in  the  street  outside  her  house  on  our  way  home  from  school  and  hear  her  being  beaten  by  what  possessed  her,  and  hear  her  as  she  cried  out  from  the  beatings.  Eventually  she  had  to  cross  the  sea,  where  the  Devil  couldn't  follow  her,  because  the  Devil  cannot  walk  over  water.  I  thought  of  this  as  I  felt  the  sharp  corners  of  the  letters  cutting  into  the  skin  over  my  heart.  I  thought,  On  the  one  hand  there  was  a  girl  being  beatenbya  man  she  could  not  see;  on  the  other  there  was  a  girl  getting  her  throatcut  by  a  man  she  could  see.  In  this  great  big  world,  why  should  my  life  be  reduced  to  these  two  possibili-  ties?  When  the  snow  fell,  it  came  down  in  thick,  heavy  glops,  and  it  hung  on  the  trees  like  a  decoration  ordered  for  a  special  occasion-a  celebration  no  one  had  heard  of,  for  everybody  com-  plained.  In  all  the  months  that  I  had  lived  in  this  place,  snowstorms  had  come  and  gone  and  I  had  never  paid  any  attention,  except  to  feel  that  snow  was  an  annoyance  when  I  had  to  make  my  way  through  the  mounds  of  it  that  " b"lay  on  the  sidewalk.  My  parents  used  to  go  every  Christmas  Eve  to  a  film  that  had  Bing  Crosby  standing  waist-deep  in  snow  and  singing  a  song  at  thetop  of  his  voice.  My  mother  once  told  me  that  seeing  this  film  was  among  the  first  things  they  did  when  they  were  getting  to  know  each  other,  and  at  the  time  she  told  me  this  I  felt  strongly  how  much  I  no  longer  liked  even  the  way  she  spoke;  and  so  I  said,  barely  concealing  my  scorn,  &quot;What  a  religious  experience  that  must  have  been.&quot;  I  walked  away  quick-  ly,  for  my  thirteen-year-old  heart  couldn't  bear  to  see  her  face  when  I  had  caused  her  pain,  but  I  couldn't  stop  myself.  In  any  case,  this  time  when  the  snow  fell,  even  I  could  see  that  there  was  something  to  it.  The  day  was  longer  now,  the  sun  set  later,  the  evening  sky  seemed  lower  than  usual,  and  the  snow  was  the  color  and  texture  of  a  half-cooked  egg  white,  making  the  world  seem  soft  and  lovely  and-unexpectedly,  to  me-  nourishing.  That  the  world  I  was  in  could  be  soft,  lovely,  and  nourish-  ing  was  more  than  I  could  bear,  and  so  I  stood  there  and  wept,  for  I  didn't  want  to  love  one  more  thing  in  my  life,  didn't  want  one  more  thing  that  could  make  my  heart  break  into  a  mil-  lion  little  pieces  at  my  feet.  But  all  the  same,  there  it  was,  and  I  could  not  do  much  about  it;  for  even  I  could  see  that  I  was  too  young  for  real  bit-  terness,  real  regret,  real  hard-heart-  edness.  The  snow  came  and  went  more  quickly  than  usual.  Mariah  said  that  the  way  the  snow  vanished,  as  if  some  hungry  being  were  invisibly  swallow-  ing  it  up,  was  quite  normal  for  that  time  of  year.  Everything  that  had  seemed  so  brittle  in  the  cold  of  winter  -sidewalk,  buildings,  trees,  the  people  themselves-seemed  to  slacken  and  sag  a  bit  at  the  seams.  I  could  now  look  back  at  the  winter.  It  was  my  past,  so  to  speak,  my  first  real  past-a  past  that  was  my  own  and  over  which  I  had  the  final  word.  I  had  just  lived  through  a  bleak  and  cold  time,  and  it  is  not  to  the  weather  outside  that  I  refer.  I  had  lived  through  this  time,  and  as  the  weather  changed  from  cold  to  warm  it  did  not  bring  me  along  with  it.  Something  settled  inside  me,  something  heavy  and  hard.  It  stayed  there,  and  I  could  not  think  of  one  thing  to  make  it  go  away.  I  thought,  So  this  must  be  living,  this  must  be  the  beginning  of  the  time  people  later  refer  to  as  &quot;years  ago,  when  I  was  young.&quot;  My  mother  had  a  friendship  with  a  woman-a  friendship  she  did  not  ad-  vertise,  for  this  woman  had  spent  time  in  jail.  This  woman-her  name  was  Sylvie-had  a  scar  on  her  right  cheek,  a  human-teeth  bite.  It  was  as  if  her  cheek  were  a  half-ripe  fruit  and  some-  one  had  bitten  into  it,  meaning  toeat  it,  but  then  realized  it  wasn't  ripe  enough.  She  had  gotten  into  a  big  quarrel  with  another  woman  over  this:  which  of  the  two  of  them  a  man  they  both  loved  should  live  with.  Apparently  Sylvie  said  something  that  was  unforgivable,  and  the  other  woman  flew  into  an  even  deeper  rage  and  grabbed  Sylviein  an  embrace,  only  it  was  not  an  embrace  of  love  but  an  embrace  of  hatred,  and  she  left  Sylvie  with  the  marked  cheek.  Both  women  were  sent  to  jail  for  public  misconduct,  and  going  to  jail  was  something  that  for  the  rest  of  their  lives  no  one  would  let  them  forget.  It  was  because  of  this  that  I  was  not  allowed  to  speak  to  Sylvie,  that  she  was  not  allowed  to  visit  us  when  my  father  was  at  home,  and  that  my  mother's  friendship  with  her  was  supposed  to  be  a  secret.  I  used  to  observe  Sylvie,  and  I  noticed  that  whenever  she  stopped  to  speak,  even  in  the  briefest  conversation,  immediately  her  hand  would  go  up  to  her  face  and  caress  her  little  rosette  (before  I  knew  what  it  was,  I  was  sure  that  the  mark  on  her  face  was  a  rose  she  had  put  there  on  purpose  be-  cause  sheloved  the  beauty  of  roses  so  much  she  wanted  to  wear  one  on  her  face),  and  it  was  as  if  the  mark  on  her  face  bound  her  to  something  much  deeper  than  its  reality,  something  that  she  could  not  put  into  words.  One  day,  outside  my  mother's  presence,  she  ad-  mired  the  way  my  corkscrew  plaits  fell  around  my  neck,  and  then  she  said  " b'something  that  I  did  not  hear,  for  she  began  by  saying,  &quot;Years  ago  when  I  was  young,&quot;  and  she  pinched  up  her  scarred  cheek  with  her  fingers  and  twisted  it  until  I  thought  it  would  fall  off  like  a  dark,  purple  plum  in  the  middle  of  her  pink  palm,  and  her  voice  became  heavy  and  hard,  and  she  laughed  all  the  time  she  was  talking.  That  is  how  I  came  to  think  that  heavy  and  hard  was  the  beginning  of  living,  real  living;  andthough  I  might  not  end  up  with  a  mark  on  my  cheek,  I  had  no  doubt  that  I  would  endup  with  a  mark  somewhere.  I  WAS  standing  in  front  of  the  kitchen  sink  one  day,  my  thoughts  centered  typically  on  myself,  when  Mariah  came  in-danced  in,  actually  -singing  an  old  song,a  song  that  was  popular  when  her  mother  was  a  young  woman,  a  song  she  herself  most  cer-  tainly  would  have  disliked  when  she  was  a  young  woman  and  so  she  now  sang  it  with  an  exaggerated  tremor  in  her  voice  to  show  how  ridiculous  she  still  found  it.  She  twirled  herself  wildly  around  the  room  and  came  to  a  sharp  stop  without  knocking  over  anything,  even  though  various  things  were  in  her  path.  She  said,  &quot;Ihave  always  wanted  four  children,  four  girl  children.  I  love  my  children.&quot;  She  said  this  clearly  and  sincerely.  She  said  this  without  doubt  on  the  one  hand  or  confidence  on  the  other.  Mariah  was  beyond  doubt  or  confi-  dence.  I  thought,  Things  must  have  ' b"always  gone  her  way,  and  not  just  for  her  but  for  everybody  she  has  ever  known  from  eternity;  she  has  never  had  to  doubt,  and  so  shehas  never  had  to  grow  confident;  the  right  thing  always  hap-  pens  to  her;  the  thing  she  wants  to  happen  hap-  pens.  Again  I  thought,  How  doesa  person  get  to  be  that  way?  Mariah  said  to  me,  &quot;I  love  you.&quot;  And  again  she  said  it  clearly  and  sincerely,  without  confidence  or  doubt.  I  believed  her,  for  if  any-  one  could  love  a  young  woman  who  had  come  from  halfway  around  the  world  to  help  her  takecare  of  her  chil-  dren,  it  was  Mariah.  She  looked  so  beauti-  ful  standing  there  in  the  middle  of  the  kitch-  en.  The  yellow  light  from  the  sun  came  in  through  a  window  and  fell  on  the  pale-yellow  linoleum  of  the  floor  and  on  the  walls  of  the  kitchen,  which  were  painted  yet  another  shade  of  pale  yellow,  and  Mariah,  with  her  pale-yel-  low  skin  and  yellow  hair,  stood  still  in  this  almost  celestial  light,  and  she  looked  blessed,  no  blemish  or  mark  of  any  kind  on  her  cheek  or  anywhere  else,  as  if  she  had  never  quarrelled  with  anyone  overa  man  or  over  anything,  would  never  have  to  quarrel  at  all,  had  never  done  anything  wrong  and  had  never  been  to  jail,  had  never  had  to  leave  anywhere  for  any  reason  other  than  a  whim.  She  had  washed  her  hair  that  morning,  and  from  where  I  stood  I  could  smell  the  residue  of  the  perfume  from  the  shampoo  in  her  hair.  Then  underneath  that  I  could  smell  Mariah  herself.  The  smell  of  Mariah  was  pleasant.  Just  that-pleasant.  And  I  thought,  But  that's  the  trouble  with  Mariah-she  smells  pleasant.  I  knew  then  that  for  the  rest  of  my  life  I  would  want  to  have  a  powerful  odor  and  would  not  care  if  it  caused  offense.  N  a  day  on  which  it  was  clear  that  there  was  no  turning  back  as  far  as  the  weather  was  concerned,  that  the  winter  season  was  over  and  its  return  would  be  a  noteworthy  event,  Mariah  said  that  we  should  prepare  to  go  and  spend  some  time  at  the  house  on  the  shore  of  one  of  the  Great  Lakes.  Lewis,  her  husband,  would  not  accompany  us.  Lewis  would  stay  in  town  and  take  advantage  of  our  absence,  doing  things  that  she  and  the  children  would  not  enjoy  doing  with  him.  What  these  things  were  I  couldnot  imagine.  Mariah  said  we  would  take  a  train,  for  she  wanted  me  to  experience  spending  the  night  on  a  train  and  waking  up  to  breakfast  on  the  train  as  it  moved  through  freshly  plowed  fields.  She  made  so  many  arrangements-I  had  not  known  that  just  leaving  your  house  for  a  short  time  could  be  so  compli-  cated.  That  afternoon,  because  the  children,  my  charges,  would  not  return  home  from  school  until  three,  Mariah  took  me  to  a  garden,  a  place  she  de-  scribed  as  among  her  favorites  in  the  world.  She  covered  my  eyes  with  a  handkerchief,  and  then,  holding  me  by  the  hand,  she  walked  me  to  aspot  in  a  clearing.  Then  she  removed  the  hand-  kerchief  and  said,  &quot;Now,  look  at  this.&quot;  I  looked.  It  was  a  big  area  with  lots  of  thick-trunked,  tall  trees  along  winding  paths.  Along  the  paths  and  underneath  the  trees  were  many,  many  yellow  flowers  the  size  and  shape  of  play  teacups,  or  fairy  skirts.  They  looked  like  something  toeat  and  something  to  wear  at  the  same  time;  they  looked  beautiful;  they  looked  simple,  as  if  made  to  erase  a  complicated  and  unnec-  essary  idea.  I  did  not  know  what  these  flowers  were,  and  so  it  was  a  mystery  to  me  why  I  wanted  to  kill  them.  Just  like  that.  I  wanted  to  kill  them.  I  wished  that  I  had  an  enormous  scythe;  I  would  just  walk  down  the  path,  dragging  it  alongside  me,  and  I  would  cut  these  flowers  down  at  the  place  where  they  emerged  from  the  ground.  Mariah  said,  &quot;These  are  daffodils.  I'm  sorry  about  the  poem,  but  I'm  hoping  you'll  find  them  lovely  in  real  life  all  the  same.&quot;  There  was  such  joy  in  her  voice  as  she  said  this,  such  a  music,  how  could  I  explain  to  her  the  feeling  I  had  about  daffodils-that  it  wasn't  exactly  daffo-  dils,  but  that  they  would  do  as  well  as  anything  else?  Where  should  I  start?  Over  here  or  over  there?  Anywhere  would  be  good  enough,  but  my  heart  and  my  thoughts  were  racing  so  that  every  time  I  tried  to  talk  I  stammered  and  by  accident  bit  my  own  tongue.  Mariah,  mistaking  what  was  hap-  pening  to  me  for  joy  at  seeing  daffodils  for  the  first  time,  reached  out  to  hug  me,  but  I  moved  away,  and  in  doing  " b"that  I  seemed  to  get  my  voiceback.  I  said,  &quot;Mariah,  do  you  realize  that  at  ten  years  of  age  I  had  to  learn  by  heart  a  long  poem  about  some  flowers  I  would  not  see  in  real  life  until  I  was  nineteen?&quot;  As  soon  as  I  said  this,  I  felt  sorry  that  I  had  cast  her  beloved  daffodils  in  a  scene  she  had  never  considered.  This  woman  who  hardly  knew  me  loved  me,  and  she  wanted  me  to  love  this  thing  that  she  loved  also.  Her  eyes  sank  back  in  her  head  as  if  they  were  protecting  themselves,  as  if  they  were  taking  a  rest  after  some  unexpected  hard  work.  It  wasn't  her  fault.  It  wasn't  my  fault.  But  nothing  could  change  the  fact  that  where  she  saw  beautiful  flowers  I  saw  sorrow  and  bitterness.  The  same  thing  could  cause  us  to  shed  tears,  but  those  tears  would  not  taste  the  same.  We  walked  home  in  silence.  I  was  glad  to  have  at  last  seen  what  a  wretched  daf-  fodil  looked  like.  WHEN  the  day  came  for  us  to  depart  to  the  house  on  the  Great  Lake,  I  was  sure  that  I  did  not  want  to  go,  but  at  midmorning  I  received  a  letter  from  my  mother  bringing  me  up  to  date  on  thingsshe  thought  I  would  have  missed  since  I  left  home  and  would  certainly  like  to  know  about.  &quot;It  still  hasnot  rained  since  you  left,&quot;  she  wrote.  &quot;How  fascinating,&quot;  I  said  to  myself,  meaning  the  opposite.  It  had  not  rained  once  for  over  ayear  before  I  left.  I  did  not  care  about  that  any  longer.  The  object  of  my  life  now  was  to  put  as  much  distance  between  myself  and  the  events  mentioned  in  her  letter  as  I  could  manage.  For  I  felt  that  if  I  could  put  enough  miles  between  me  and  the  place  from  which  that  letter  came,  and  if  I  could  put  enough  events  between  me  and  the  events  mentioned  in  the  letter,  would  I  not  be  free  to  take  everything  just  as  it  came  and  not  see  hundreds  of  years  in  every  gesture,  every  word  spoken,  every  face?  On  the  train,  we  settled  ourselves  and  the  children  into  our  compartments  two  children  with  Mariah,  two  children  with  me.  In  one  of  the  few  films  I  had  seen  in  my  life  so  far,  some  people  on  a  train  did  this-settled  into  their  compartments.  And  so  I  suppose  I  should  have  felt  excitement  at  doing  something  I  had  never  done  before  and  had  only  seen  done  in  a  film.  But  almost  everything  I  did  now  was  some-  thing  I  had  never  done  before,  and  so  the  new  was  no  longer  thrilling  to  me  unless  it  reminded  me  of  the  past.  We  went  to  the  dining  car  to  eat  our  din-  ner.  We  sat  at  tables-the  children  by  themselves.  They  had  demanded  that,  and  had  said  to  Mariah  that  they  would  behave,  even  though  it  was  well  known  that  they  always  did.  The  other  people  sitting  down  to  eat  dinner  all  looked  like  Mariah's  relatives;  the  peo-  ple  waiting  on  them  all  looked  like  mine.  The  people  who  looked  like  my  relatives  were  all  older  men  and  very  dignified,as  if  they  were  just  emerging  from  a  church  after  Sunday  service.  On  closer  observation,  they  were  not  at  all  like  my  relatives;  they  onlylooked  like  them.  My  relatives  always  gave  backchat.  Mariah  did  not  seem  to  no-  tice  what  she  had  in  common  with  the  other  diners,  or  what  I  had  in  common  with  the  waiters.  She  acted  in  her  usual  way,  which  was  that  the  world  was  round  and  we  all  agreed  on  that,  when  I  knew  that  the  world  was  flat  and  if  I  went  to  the  edge  I  would  fall  off.  That  night  on  the  train  was  fright,  ening.  Every  time  I  tried  to  sleep,  just  as  it  seemed  that  I  had  finally  done  so,  I  would  wake  up  sure  that  thousands  of  people  on  horseback  were  following  me,  chasing  me,  each  of  them  carrying  a  cutlass  to  cut  me  up  into  small  pieces.   Of  course,  I  could  tell  it  was  the  sound  of  the  wheels  on  the  tracks  that  in-  spired  this  nightmare,  but  a  real  expla-  nation  made  no  difference  to  me.  Early  that  morning,  Mariah  left  her  own  compartment  to  come  and  tell  me  that  we  were  passing  through  some  of  those  freshly  plowed  fields  she  loved  so  much.  She  drew  up  my  blind,  and  when  I  saw  mile  after  mile  of  turned-up  earth,  I  said,  a  cruel  tone  to  my  voice,  &quot;Well,  thank  God  I  didn't  have  to  do  that.&quot;  I  don't  know  if  she  understood  what  I  meant,  for  in  that  one  statement  I  meant  many  different  things.  WHEN  we  got  to  our  destination,  a  man  Mariah  had  known  all  her  life,  a  man  who  had  always  done  things  for  her  family,  a  manwho  came  from  [REDACTED],  was  waiting  for  us.  His  name  was  Gus,  and  the  way  Mariah  spoke  his  name  it  was  as  if  he  belonged  to  her  deeply,  like  a  memory.  And,  of  course,  he  was  a  part  of  her  past,  her  childhood:  he  was  there,  apparently,  when  she  took  her  first  steps;  she  had  caught  her  first  fish  in  aboat  with  him;  they  had  been  in  a  storm  on  the  lake  and  their  survival  was  a  miracle,  and  so  on.  Still,  he  was  a  real  person,  and  I  thought  Mariah  should  have  long  sep-  aratedthe  person  Gus  standing  in  front  of  her  in  the  present  from  all  the  things  he  had  meant  to  her  in  the  past.  I  wanted  to  say  to  him,  &quot;Do  you  not  hate  the  way  she  says  your  name,  as  if  she  owns  you?&quot;  But  then  I  thought  about  it  and  could  see  that  a  person  coming  from  [REDACTED]  was  a  person  altogether  different  from  a  person  like  me.  We  drove  through  miles  and  miles  of  countryside,  miles  and  miles  of  nothing.  I  was  glad  not  to  live  in  a  place  like  this.  The  land  did  not  say,  &quot;Welcome.  So  glad  you  could  come.&quot;  It  was  more,  &quot;I  dare  you  to  stay  here.&quot;  At  last  we  came  to  asmall  town.  As  we  drove  through  it,  Mariah  became  excited;  her  voice  became  low,  as  if  what  she  was  saying  only  she  needed  to  hear.  She  would  exclaim  with  happiness  or  sadness,  depending,  as  things  passed  before  her.  Some  things  had  changed,  some  things  had  newly  arrived,  and  " b"some  things  had  van-  ished  completely  since  she  had  last  been  there.  When  she  passed  through  this  town,  it  was  as  if  she  forgot  she  was  the  wife  of  Lewis  and  the  mother  of  four  girl  children.  As  we  left  the  small  town,  a  silence  fell  on  everybody,  and  in  my  own  case  I  felt  a  kind  of  despair.  I  felt  sorry  for  Mariah;  I  knew  what  she  must  have  gone  through,  seeing  her  past  go  swiftly  by  in  front  of  her,  What  an  awful  thing  that  is,  as  if  the  ground  onwhich  you  are  standing  is  being  slowly  pulled  out  from  under  your  feet  and  beneath  is  nothing,  a  hole  through  which  you  fall  forever.  The  house  in  which  Mariah  had  grown  up  was  beautiful.  It  was  a  large  house,  and  it  sprawled  out,  as  if  rooms  had  been  added  onto  it  when  needed,but  added  on  all  in  the  same  style.  It  was  modelled  on  the  farmhouse  that  Mariah's  grandfather  grew  up  in,  somewhere  in  Scandinavia.  It  had  a  nice  veranda  in  front,  a  perfect  place  from  which  to  watch  rain  fall.  The  whole  house  was  painted  a  sooth,  ing  yellow  with  white  trim,  which  from  afar  looked  warm  and  inviting.  From  my  room  I  could  see  the  lake.  I  had  read  of  this  lake  in  geography  books,  had  read  of  its  origins  and  its  history,  and  now  tosee  it  up  close  was  odd,  for  it  looked  so  ordinary,  gray,  dirty,  unfriendly,  not  a  body  of  water  to  make  up  a  song  about.  Mariah  came  in,  and  seeing  me  studying  the  water  she  flung  her  arms  around  me  and  said,  &quot;Isn't  it  great?&quot;  But  I  wasn'tthinking  that  at  all.  I  slept  peacefully,  without  any  troubling  dreams  to  haunt  me;  it  must  have  been  that  knowing  there  was  a  body  of  water  outside  my  window,  even  though  it  was  not  the  big  blue  sea  I  was  used  to,  brought  me  some  comfort.  Mariah  wanted  all  of  us,  the  chil-  dren  and  me,  tosee  things  the  way  she  did.  She  wanted  us  to  enjoy  the  house,  all  its  nooks  and  crannies,  all  its  sweet   smells,  all  its  charms,  just  the  way  she  had  done  as  a  child.  The  children  were  happy  tosee  things  her  way.  They  would  have  had  to  be  four  small  ver-  sions  of  myselfnot  to  fall  at  her  feet  in  adoration.  But  I  already  had  a  mother  who  loved  me,  and  I  had  come  to  see  her  love  as  a  burden  andhad  come  to  view  with  horror  the  sense  of  self-  satisfaction  it  gave  my  mother  to  hear  other  people  comment  on  her  great  love  for  me.  I  had  come  to  feel  that  my  mother's  love  for  me  was  designed  solelyto  make  me  into  an  echo  of  her;  and  I  didn't  know  why,  but  I  felt  that  I  would  rather  be  dead  than  become  just  an  echo  of  someone.  This  is  not  a  figure  of  speech.  These  thoughts  would  have  come  as  a  complete  surprise  to  my  mother,  for  in  her  life  she  had  found  that  her  ways  were  the  best  ways  to  have,  and  she  would  have  been  mys-  tified  asto  how  someone  who  came  from  inside  her  wouldwant  to  be  any-  one  different  from  her.  I  did  not  have  an  answer  to  this  myself.  But  there  it  was.  Thoughts  like  these  had  brought  me  to  be  sitting  on  the  edge  of  a  Great  Lake  with  a  woman  who  wanted  to  show  me  her  world  and  hoped  that  I  would  like  it,  too.  Sometimes  there  is  no  escape,  but  often  the  effort  of  trying  will  do  quite  nicely  for  a  while.  I  was  sitting  on  the  veranda  with  these  thoughts  when  I  saw  Mariah  come  up  the  path,  holding  in  her  hands  six  grayish-blackish  fish.  She  said,  &quot;\xc2\xabTaa-daah!  Trout!&quot;  and  made  a  big  sweep  with  herhands,  holding  the  fish  up  in  the  light,  so  that  rainbowlike  colors  shone  on  their  scales.  She  sang  out,  &quot;I  will  make  you  fishers  of  men,&quot;  and  danced  around  me.  After  she  stopped,  she  said,  &quot;Aren't  they  beauti-  ful?  Gus  and  I  went  out  in  my  old  boat  -my  very,  very  old  boat-and  we  caught  them.  My  fish.  This  is  supper.  Let's  go  feed  the  minions.&quot;  It's  possible  that  what  she  really  said  was  &quot;millions,&quot;  not  &quot;minions.&quot;  Cer-  tainly  she  said  it  in  jest.  But  as  we  were  cooking  the  fish,  I  was  thinking  about  it.  &quot;Minions.&quot;  A  word  like  that  would  haunt  someone  like  me;  the  place  " b" where  I  came  from  was  a  dominion  of  someplace  else.  I  became  so  taken  with  the  word  &quot;dominion&quot;  that  I  told  Mariah  this  story:  When  I  was  about  five  years  old  or  so,  I  had  read  to  me  for  the  first  time  the  story  of  Jesus  Christ  feeding  the  multitudes  with  seven  loaves  and  a  few  fishes.  After  my  mother  had  finished  reading  this  to  me,  I  said  to  her,  &quot;But  how  did  Jesus  serve  the  fish?  Boiled  or  fried?&quot;  This  made  my  mother  look  at  me  in  amazement  and  shake  her  head.  She  then  told  everybody  she  met  what  I  had  said,  and  they  would  shake  their  heads  and  say,  &quot;What  achild!&quot;  It  wasn't  really  such  an  unusual  question.  In  the  place  where  I  grew  up,  many  people  earned  their  living  by  being  fishermen.  Often,  after  a  fisherman  came  in  from  sea  and  had  distributed  most  of  his  fish  to  peo-  ple  with  whom  he  had  such  an  ar-  rangement,  he  might  save  some  of  them,  clean  and  season  them,  and  build  a  fire,  and  he  and  his  wife  would  fry  them  at  the  seashore  and  put  them  up  for  sale.  It  was  quite  a  nice  thing  to  sit  on  the  sand  under  a  tree,  seekingrefuge  from  the  hot  sun,  and  eat  a  per-  fectly  fried  fish  as  you  took  in  the  view  of  the  beautiful  blue  sea,  former  home  of  the  thing  you  were  eating.  When  I  inquired  about  the  way  the  fish  were  served  with  the  loaves,  to  myself  I  had  thought,  Not  only  would  the  multi-  tudes  be  pleased  to  have  something  to  eat,  not  only  would  they  marvel  at  the miracle  of  turning  so  little  intoso  much,  but  they  might  go  on  to  pass  a  judgment  on  the  way  the  food  tasted.  I  know  it  would  have  mattered  to  me.  In  our  house,  we  all  preferred  boiled  fish.  I  wondered  why  the  people  who  re-  corded  their  life  with  Christ  never  mentioned  this  small  detail,  a  detail  that  would  have  meant  a  lot.  When  I  finished  telling  Mariah  this,  she  looked  at  me,  and  her  blue  eyes  (which  I  would  have  found  beautiful  even  if  I  hadn't  read  millions  of  books  in  which  blue  eyes  were  always  accom-  panied  by  the  word  &quot;beautiful&quot;)  grew  dim  as  she  slowly  closed  the  lids  over  them,  then  bright  again  as  she  opened  them  wide  and  then  wider.  A  silence  fell  between  us;  it  was  a  deep  silence,  but  not  too  thick  and  not  too  black.  Through  it  we  could  hear  the  clink  of  the  cooking  utensils  as  we  cooked  the  fish  Mariah's  way,  under  flames  in  the  oven,  a  way  I  did  not  like.  And  we  could  hear  the  children  in  the  distance  screaming-in  pain  or  plea-  sure,I  could  not  tell.  MARIAH  and  I  were  saying  good  night  to  each  other  the  way  we  always  did,  with  a  hug  and  a  kiss,  but  this  time  we  did  it  as  if  we  both  wished  we  hadn't  gotten  such  a  custom  started.  She  was  almost  out  of  the  room  when  she  turned  and  said,  &quot;I  was  looking  forward  to  telling  you  that  I  have  Indian  blood,  that  the  reason  I'm  so  good  at  catching  fish  and  hunting  birds  and  roasting  corn  and  doing  all  sorts  of  things  is  because  I  have  Indian  blood.  But  now,  I  don't  know  why,  I  feel  I  shouldn't  tell  you  that.  I  feel  you  will  take  it  the  wrong  way.&quot;  This  really  surprised  me.  What  way  should  I  take  this?  Wrong  way?  Right  way?  What  could  she  mean?  To  look  at  her,  there  was  nothing  remotely  like  an  Indian  about  her.  Why  claim  a  thing  like  that?  I  myself  had  Indian  blood  in  me.  My  grandmother  is  a  Carib  Indian.  That  makes  me  one-  quarter  Carib  Indian.  But  I  don't  go  around  saying  that  I  have  some  Indian  blood  in  me.  The  Carib  Indians  were  good  sailors,  but  I  don't  like  to  be  on  the  sea;  I  only  like  to  look  at  it.  To  me  my  grandmother  is  my  grandmother,  not  an  Indian.  My  grandmother  is  alive;  the  Indians  she  came  from  are  all  dead.  If  someone  could  get  away  with  it,  I  am  sure  they  would  put  my  grand-  mother  in  a  zoo,  as  an  example  of  something  now  extinct  in  nature.  In  fact,  one  of  the  museums  to  which  Ma-  riah  had  taken  me  devoted  a  whole  sec-  tion  to  people,  all  dead,  who  were  more  or  less  related  to  my  grandmother.  Mariah  says,  &quot;I  have  Indian  blood  in  me,&quot;  and  underneath  everything  I  could  swear  she  says  it  as  if  she  were  announcing  her  possession  of  a  trophy.  How  do  you  get  to  be  the  sort  of  victor  who  can  claim  the  soul  of  the  van-  quished,  too?  I  now  heard  Mariah  say,  &quot;Well,&quot;  and  she  let  outa  long  breath,  full  of  sadness,  resignation,  even  dread.  I  looked  at  her;  her  face  was  miserable,  tormented,  ill-looking.  She  looked  at  me  in  a  pleading  way,  as  if  asking  for  relief,  and  I  looked  back,  my  face  and  my  eyes  hard;  no  matter  what,  I  would  not  give  it.  I  said,  &quot;All  along  I  have  been  won-  dering  how  you  got  to  be  the  way  you  are.  Just  how  it  was  that  you  got  to  be  the  way  you  are.&quot;  Even  now  she  couldn't  let  go,  and  she  reached  out,  her  arms  open  wide,  to  give  me  one  of  her  great  hugs.  But  I  stepped  out  of  its  path  quickly,  and  she  was  left  holding  nothing.  At  last  I  said  it.  I  said,  &quot;How  do  you  get  to  be  that  way?&quot;  The  anguish  on  her  face  almost  broke  my  heart,  but  I  would  not  bend.  It  was  hollow,  my  triumph,  I  could  feel  that,  but  I  held  on  to  it  just  the  same. "