 b" MONDAY  Donahue:  Top  Men  Who  Can't  Stand  It  and  Quit  Oprah  Winfrey:  A  Former  Lover  of  Mine  (In  Person,  Along  with  His  Wife  and  Three  Kids)  Geraldo:  The  Fattest  People  You  Ever  LaidEyes  On  Darin:  Cross-Dressing  at  the  Wash-  ington  Post  Sally  Jessy  Raphael:  Kids  from  Nice  Homes  Who  Eat  Dirt  Morton  Downey,  Jr.:  Please  Don't  Watch  This  Show  if  You  Weep  at  the  Sight  of  Cruelty!  Chuck:  Parents  from  District  18  Discuss  Bus  Transportation  This  was  the  week  after  Flag  Day,  traditionally  a  slow  time  for  morning  talk  shows.  Donahue  did  ambitious  young  Wall  Street  executives  who  sud-  denly  cut  loose  and  become  primitive  herdsmen  roaming  the  Adirondacks  and  living  on  roots  and  berries  and  milking  elk,  and  Oprah  talked  with  George  (who  was  as  slim  and  rich  and  good-looking  as  when  they  couldn't  keep  their  hands  off  each  other  and  whose  dumpy  little  wife,  Sally,  was  very  sweetabout  the  whole  thing,  though  it  was  pretty  obvious  that  her  man  still  had  eyes  for  Oprah),  and  Geraldo  did  grossly  obese  men  who  must  be  moved  by  crane,  three  of  whom  were  hoisted  on  tiptoe  and  danced  around  to  the  &quot;Waltz  of  the  43616e616461plum  Fairy,&quot;  from  &quot;The  Nut-  cracker,&quot;  and  Darin  decided  that  even  though  six  times  as  many  guys  at  the  Washington  Post  are  wearing  bras  and  panty  hose  as  in  1969  it  does  not  seem  to  affect  their  reporting  so  far,  and  Sally  Jessy  showed  kids  from  extreme-  ly  nice  homes  who  were  devouring  dirt  by  the  shovelful,  and  Morton  Downey  ran  around  thestudio  with  a  pickaxe  and  did  one  hundred  and  fifty  thousand  dollars'  worth  of  property  damage.  Meanwhile,  on  &quot;The  Chuck  Show  of  Television&quot;  (the  Peterson  Cable  Network,  [REDACTED])  you  saw  four  parents  discussing  the  fact  thatthe  school  had  cancelled  the  late  bus,  which  made  it  necessary  for  them  to  drive  all  the  way  into  Tarryville  every  afternoon  and  pick  up  the  kids  after  field-hockey  practice  and  choir  re-  hearsal.  &quot;It  would've  been  nice  if  the  process  had  allowed  for  some  input  from  the  parents,&quot;  one  parent  said.  &quot;You  guys  are  dumber  than  dirt!  Gosh,  you're  a  bunch  of  dummies!  Whose  dumb,  dumb,  dumb,dumb,  dumb  idea  was  this,  anyway?&quot;  said  Chuck's  producer,  Al,  when  he  saw  how  bad  Chuck  got  creamed  in  the  overnight  ratings.  &quot;A  zero  point  six!  That's  as  low  as  you  cango  and  still  be  talking  English!  We're  talking  tiny!&quot;  In  fact,  Chuck  got  beat  out  even  by  Miklo  Pstachek's  talk  show,  which  is  in  Lat-  vian.  Mik  had  a  woman  guest  who  picked  up  and  threw  three  spinet  pianos  and  then  lowered  her  head  and  busted  through  an  oak  door  and  ran  down  the  alley  with  her  clothes  off.  Mik  gota  one  point  two.  By  the  time  Al  saw  the  overnights  and  sat  the  Chuck  staff  down  for  a  meeting,  however,  it  was  Tuesday  already.  TUESDAY  Donahue:  Top  Men  You  Like  a  Lot  Until  You  Talk  to  Their  Wives  and  Suddenly  the  Subject  of  Sex  Comes  Up  Oprah  Winfrey:  George  Alone  (By  Audience  Request)  to  Discuss  &quot;Sen-  suality  and  the  Talk-Show  Gal&quot;  Geraldo:  Big  Huge  Blubbery  Guys  in  Their  Poofy  Dresses  (Ones  We  Didn't  Dare  Show  Yesterday,  Afraid  You'd  Be  Offended)  Darin:  How  About  Time  and  News-  week!?  Is  Transvestism  As  Big  a  Prob-  lem  There  as  an  Awful  Lot  of  People  Are  Saying  Now!  Sally  Jessy  Raphael:  They  Eat  Dirt  and  Touch  Themselves  in  Bad  Places  Morton  Downey,  Jr.:  He  Will  Rage  and  Foam  and  Screech  and  Pound-  He  Will  Rip  His  Clothes  to  Shreds  and  Shake  the  Bars  of  His  Cage  Until  They  Are  So  Loose  You  Are  Sure  He  Will  Jump  Out  in  the  Audience  and  Whomp  You  Chuck:  What's  New  These  Days  in  Vocational  Counselling  in  and  Around  Tarryville?  &quot;Who  is  killing  this  show  by  booking  guests  who  are  dumber  than  stumps?&quot;  inquired  Al  when  the  whole  Chuck   crew  assembled  in  his  office  on  Tues-  day  afternoon-Mike  and  Melody  and  Fielding  and  Trevor  and  Shazzaba  and  Bob,  all  drinking  coffee  out  of  plastic  cups,  and  each  with  a  clipboard  and  a  stopwatch.  &quot;Fess  up  and  tell  me  which  one  of  you  dumbbells  is  stiffing  this  show  by  hauling  in  dead  meat  on  trucks  and  dumping  it  on  Chuck.&quot;  But  in  fact  it  had  been  the  Chucker  himself  who  booked  those  two  shows,  and  here  in  the  paper  swamp  on  Al's  desk  was  a  Chuck  memo  sayingthey  ought  to  do  a  show  on  recycling.  Chuck's  wife,  Marge,  is  a  lifelong  recycler,  a  fanatic  who  carries  a  garbage  bag  everywhere,  even  to  other  people's  garden  parties,  and  collects  cans  and  bottles,  and  one  of  Chuck's  big  interests  at  Peterson  Cable  has  been  recycling:  he's  the  one  who  got  management  to  put  a  recycling  bin  next  to  the  soda  machine.  &quot;One  problem  is  that  here  in  Min-  neapolis  it's  hard  tofind  that  many  cross-dressers-at  least,  any  who  care  to  come  on  TV  and  talk  about  it,&quot;  said  Fielding.  &quot;We  have  a  few  fatties,  but  nothing  like  what  you  see  in  New  York  or  L.A.  I  was  in  New  York  once  and  I  saw  a  man  as  wide  as  the  whole  side-  walk.  He  was  drivinghimself  along  on  a  forklift  and  singing  in  asweet,  high-  pitched  voice  and  lifting  up  his  T-shirt  to  show  his  belly  button.&quot;  &quot;No  more  of  these  Dumb  Dora  guests  or  Pll  throw  you  all  out  the  window.  We  got  to  have  some  sad  weird  people-some  people  who  make  you  go,  Whoa-a-a-a-or  else  I'm  going  to  start  kicking  some  fanny  around  here,&quot;  said  Al.  Ironically,  he  was  an  ideal  guest  himself-forty-seven,  un-  able  to  read  or  write,  terrified  of  cats,  addicted  to  sugar,  chronically  de-  pressed  because  of  a  rare  disease  called  Phelps-but  as  the  producer  he  needed  to  be  in  the  control  room,  not  sitting  on  the  white  couch  sobbing  over  the  bum  hand  that  life  had  dealt  him,  though  he  could  have  cried  plenty  about  his  dad,  who  abdicated  the  parental  role  and  married  Al's  beautiful  Aunt  Nora  and  became  his  uncle,  a  kindly  but  distant  figure  who  sat  on  the  porch  chuckling  and  spitting  but  never  giving  the  boy  a  smidgen  of  discipline.  But  was  that  the  reason  Al  was  lesbian?  And  did  it  matter?  Loneliness  was  Al's  big  buga-  boo.  He  felt  like  the  only  male  lesbian  in  the  whole  world.  There  were  no  books  about  his  ilk,  not  even  a  small  brochure.  The  problem  was  apparently  " b" so  unspeakably  vile  that  nobody  dared  breathe  a  word  about  it.  Was  that  why  healways  yelled-to  cover  up  his  unique  sex-  uality?  &quot;What's  the  matter  with  you  people!&quot;  he  said.  &quot;How  come  you  can't  think?  You  want  this  show  to  go  down  the  toilet?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  think  it's  just  guests.  The  star  has  been  looking  a  little  peaked  since  the  show  started  to  cool  off,&quot;  said  Bob.  &quot;We  need  him  looking  fresh  and  eager  again,  like  when  we  had  the  barking  spiders  on  the  show.&quot;  True.  That  hed  been  good.  Six  months  after  Chuck  went  into  syndica-  tion,  he  had  four  Girl  Scouts  on  the  show,  and  one  of  them,  a  spider  hob-  byist,  owned  three  rare  barking  spiders,  and  it  was  fascinating  tosee  the  tiny  hairy  insects  and  hear  their  unmistakable  woofing  and  arfing.  It  got  Chuck  in  papers  from  coast  to  coast,  and  the  next  day  thirty-six  million  Americans  tuned  in,  but  his  guests  that  day  were  four  old  farts  from  the  Legion  club  who  sat  and  grumped  about  high  property  taxes,  and  the  Chuck  show  was  dead  in  the  water  again.  &quot;Animals,&quot;  said  Al.  &quot;Go  out  there  and  bring  back  live  animals!&quot;  \xe2\x80\x98  \xe2\x80\x98  7  EDNESDAY  Donahue:  $500,000-a-Year  Guys  Who  Come  Home  from  Work  and  Lie  Weeping  in  Dark  Basements  Oprah  Winfrey:  George  and  Me  and  What  We  Said  Yesterday  After  the  Show-When  We  Thought  the  Cam-  eras  Were  Off!  Geraldo:  Will  Guys  This  Fat  Bounce  if  We  Drop  Them?  Will  They  Roll?  What  Do  They  Look  Like  Hanging  Upside  Down!?  Darin:  What  About  the  TV  Anchors?  Do  One  or  Two  of  Them  Wear  High  Heels  During  News!  Sally  Jessy  Raphael:  Parents  Who  Sit  and  Watch  Kids  Stuff  Fistfuls  of  Dirt  in  Their  Mouths  Morton  Downey,  Jr.:  He  Escapes  from  His  Trainer!  He  Leaps  Into  the   Crowd  of  Innocent  Bystanders!  He  Has  a  Small  Child  in  His  Hands  and  Is  About  to  Crush  Its  Head  Like  a  Beer  Can!  Chuck:  Rabbits  Copulating  in  Cages  The  rabbits  belonged  to  Melody's  brother  Donald,  three  males  and  three  females  in  heat.  The  mal mounted  the  females  and  pumped  furiously  for  six  seconds  like  furry  pistons  and  then  fainted  and  toppled  over  and  lay  on  their  backs  twitching,  with  their  legs  sticking  up  in  the  air,  and  then  awoke  and  jumped  upand  re-  mounted.  The  PCN  crew  did  some  fantastic  camerawork-slow-mo  and  stop-ac-  tion  and  split-frame-and  the  minute  Chuck  went  off  the  air  all  three  major  networks  were  calling  and  begging  for  footage.  All  three  evening  newscasts  ran  a  story  on  it,  and  that  night  Al  took  the  Chuck  staff  out  for  prime  rib  at  Sammy's.  He  was  so  happy  and  got  so  drunk  that  he  almost  stood  upand  said,  &quot;I'm  illiterate,  sugar-dependent,  cato-  phobic,  Phelps-infected,  and  lesbian,  and  every  day  I  feel  sadder  than  you'll  ever  know,  but  I  still  love  you  so  much  I  could  hug  you  to  pieces!&quot;  Chuck  wasn't  there-he  and  Marge  had  Amnesty  on  Wednesday  nights-but  he  sent  a  cake  that  said  &quot;Concgrat-  uratTiIONs  To  a  GrEat  Buncn  or  Persons!&quot;  &quot;The  dumbest  thing  we  could  do  would  be  to  sit  on  our  laurels  at  this  point,&quot;  Al  said.  &quot;We've  got  our  work  cut  out  for  us  now.  The  hardest  thing  is  to  stay  on  top!&quot;  THURSDAY  Donahue:  What  Does  It  Take  to  Open  These  Men  Up?  Oprah  Winfrey:  George-I  Can't  Stop  Thinking  About  Him.  It's  Driven  Me  Off  My  Diet.  ISit  in  My  $10  Million  Chicago  Apartment  Eating  Nachos  and  Chili  Dogs  and  " b"Fried  Potatoes,  Getting  Big  As  a  Barn  Geraldo:  Much  Fatter  People  Than  the  Ones  We  Showed  Before.  Those  Were  Just  the  Tip  of  the  Iceberg.  These  Fatsos  Make  Them  Look  Teeny-Weeny  Darin:  I  Must  Confess  That  I  My-  self  Am  Wearing  a  Pink  Lacy  Slip  Under  My  Suit-Would  You  Like  to  See  It?  Sally  Jessy  Raphael:  Mothers  Whose  Kids  Eat  Dirt:  Should  They  Be  Shot?  Or  Helped?  Morton  Downey,  Jr.:  The  Child  Weeps  Copiously,  the  Parents  Scream  in  Terror,  but  It's  Too  Late-In  Another  Second,  Mort  Will  Rip  It  to  Shreds  Chuck:  Hypnotizing  Chickens  Bob's  brother  learned  about  hypno-  tizing  chickens  when  he  was  in  4-H.  You  hold  the  chicken  gently  and  stroke  its  beak  until  the  bird's  eyes  cross  and  it  goes  limp  in  your  hands.  Then  you  can  stand  it  up  on  the  ground  (the  chicken  locks  its  knees  when  it's  hypnotized;  nobody  knows  why)  and  it'll  stand,  motionless,  its  white  feathers  riffling  in  the  breeze,  the  eyes  focussed  on  the  tip  of  the  beak,  until  suddenly  it  falls  over  on  its  side.  Or  you  can  prop  it  against  a  stake.  The  PCN  crew  shot  some  footage  of  hypnotized  chickens  on  location  at  several  egg  ranches  in  the  area,  includ-  ing  the  controversial  segment  in  which  a  chicken  under  hypnosis  is  beheaded  with  an  axe  and  tears  around  in  circles  for  a  full  fifteen  seconds,  blood  pouring  from  its  neck.  Some  stations  cut  that  segment  from  the  Chuck  show,  and  then  all  three  networks  did  stories  that  showed  the  execution  segment,  and  switchboards  were  jammed  and  Thurs-  day  night  the  radio  call-in  shows  were  full  of  it  and  Friday  morning  there  were  big  newspaper  stories  and  the  overnight  ratings  showed  Chuck  with  the  highest  numbers  ever  recorded  by  a  daytime  talk  host.  Phenomenal.  Al  burst  into  Chuck's  office  laughing  and  screaming,  waving  the  survey,  and  what  did  Chuck  say?  He  glanced  at  the  numbers  and  said,  &quot;'This  is  great.  You  know  why?  Because  it  gives  us  a  plat-  form  to  say  some  things  about  urban  planning.  I'm  troubled  by  these  Repub-  lican  lobbyists  and  their  three-hun-  dred-thousand-dollar  kickbacks  on  federal  housing  contracts,  but  in  a  larger  sense  I'm  concerned  about  the  whole  urban  picture  nowadays.  It's  ter-  ribly  serious.&quot;  Al  felt  sick.  He  thought  to  himself,  You  dumb  Chuck,  we  beat  our  brains  out  for  you  and  all  you  can  think  about  is  your  dumb  agenda.  Al  went  to  his  office  and  got  a  sawed-  off  shotgun  out  of  his  desk  drawer  and  came  back  to  Chuck's  office  and  stood  in  the  doorway  with  the  muzzle  point-  ed  at  his  own  head  and  told  Chuck  the  truth.  &quot;I  cannot  read  or  sign  my  own  name,  I  am  dying  of  Phelps,  I  drink  three  six-packs  ofCoke  every  day,  my  cat  terrifies  me  at  night,  and  all  I  think  about  is  having  unnatural  sex  with  women.  If  you  don't  quit  being  so  dumb  and  ruining  this  show,  I  am  going  to  blow  my  head  off.&quot;  FRIDAY  Donahue:  An  Open  Plea  to  My  Wife:  I  Wield  Vast  Influence  and  Earn  Zillions  yet  You  and  I  Never  " b"Talk  Anymore  and  So  You  Have  No  Idea  of  the  Depth  of  My  Obsessive  Fantasies.  Love  Me!  Or  I  Will  Don  Female  Apparel  in  Front  of  Millions!  Oprah  Winfrey:  Thinking  About  George  I  Put  On  118  Lbs.  in  Four  Days-but  Did  I  Really  Eat  All  Those  Potatoes?  Or  Am  I  Carrying  Elvis's  Baby?  Geraldo:  Obese  Psychologists  Dis-  cuss  Inhumane  Practices  on  Talk  Shows:  Is  Chuck  Kidnapping  Cats  and  Torturing  Them  and  Mutilating  Their  Bodies  in  Secret  Satanic-Cult  Rites?  (Extremely  Vivid  Photographs.  No  Children,  Please)  Darin:  Four  Topics  I  Refuse  to  Dis-  cuss  on  This  Show,  Including  Bestial-  ity,  Phone  Calls  from  the  Dead,  Ru-  mors  About  Nuns,  and  My  Recent  Operation  Sally  Jessy  Raphael:  You  Were  Right,Viewers,  I  Was  Wrong!  Mil-  lions  of  You  Told  Me,  &quot;Don't  Knock  It  if  You  Haven't  Tried  It!&quot;-So  To-  day  I  Will!  A  Whole  Big  Bucket!  Morton  Downey,  Jr.:  Look!  A  Dog  Rushes  In!  He  Barks,  &quot;Mort!  Mort!&quot;  And  Big  Tears  Run  Down  the  Arch-  Fiend's  Cheeks  and  He  Returns  the  Child  Unharmed  to  Its  Parents!  It  Is  His  Boyhood  Dog,  Chipper,  Who  Ran  Away  and  Now  Has  Come  Back!  The  Child  Is  Saved  and  the  Monster  Re-  deemed  by  the  Love  of  a  Pet!  Chuck:  My  Producer  and  My  Best  Friend,  Al  Al  knew  it  was  a  major  mistake  the  minute  the  &quot;On  Air&quot;  light  flashed,  but  what  could  he  do?  Too  late.  He  told  everything  in  five  minutes,  and  it  was  nothing.  Male  lesbianism-big  deal.  Adult  illiteracy.  [REDACTED]  addiction.  Cat  fear.  Depression.  Phelps.  It  was  just  a  bunch  of  words.  Noise.  He  wished  so  badly  that  he'd  listened  to  the  staff-  the  great  stuff  they'd  gone  out  and  found.  The  world's  smallest  horse!  A  cow  with  two  heads  and  two  separate  udders  with  a  total  of  ten  teats!  A  pig  with  a  wooden  leg  who  rides  a  Harley  and  swims  and  attacks  on  command!  Chuck  finished  the  week  on  top,  and  there  were  a  hundred  and  eighteen  press  requests  for  personal  interviews  with  him,  but  still  there  was  quite  a  bit  of  soul-searching  around  Chuck  Pro-  ductions  that  afternoon.  Chuck  was  gone-he  and  Marge  were  spending  the  weekend  at  a  conference  on  Central  America-and  so  was  Al.  Hisdad  saw  the  show  and  called  up,  and  they  went  out  for  dinner  and  drinks.  Mike  ran  the  meeting,  and  basically  what  he  said  was,  &quot;C'mon,  guys.  Lesbianism  isn't  what  got  us  here.  We  gotta  get  back  to  basics.&quot;  It  was  reported  that  Geraldo  was  planning  a  whole  week  on  capital  punishment  and  Donahue  would  do  the  Black  Plague  and  Oprah  the  Inquisi-  tion.  &quot;Don't  worry  about  them,&quot;  said  Mike.  &quot;We're  going  to  play  our  game  and  do  what  we  do  best.  Otherwise  you'll  be  fired  and  hurled  naked  into  a  vat  of  acid.&quot;  By  five  o'clock  Friday,  every  slot  on  the  Chuck  show  was  filled  for  the  next  two  weeks  with  snakes,  lizards  and  horned  toads,  live  rats,  giant  cock-  roaches,  rabid  dogs,  alligators,  weird  neon  fish  with  balloon  eyes,  mutant  CLARISSA.  pets  from  isolated  towns  near  Army  testing  sites,  dogs  that  looked  exactly  like  different  celebrities,  and  a  four-  hundred-foot-long  white  whale,  named  Ruby,  which  was  captured  from  the  [REDACTED]  and  which  has  swallowed  several  men  (maybe  six  or  seven)  thought  perhaps  to  be  still  alive  inside.  Doctors  listening  with  powerful  infraredstethoscopes  hear  what  sounds  like  English  from  within.  The  gigan-  tic  creature  will  be  carefully  anesthe-  tized  and  opened  up  on  Monday  morn-  ing  at  ten-thirty. "