 b"IF  you  think  it's  too  cold  for  a woman  my  age  to  be  eating  her  lunch  outhere  by  the  beaver  dam,  then  the  first  thing  I  have  to  tell  you  is,  don't  worry  about  me.  Or,  if  I  say  it  the  way  I  first  said  it  as  a  little  girl,  &quot;Don't  worry  'bout  me.&quot;  I  seem  to  have  been  saying  and  thinking  the  same  things  right  from  the  beginning.  For  a  long  time  my  mother  would  look  at  me  as  if  the  things  I  was  saying  were  a  little  bit  funny-just  a  little  bit,  not  funny  enough  one  way  to  laugh  at  or  the  other  way  to  get  upset  about.  I  don't  know-is  &quot;Don't  worry  'bout  me&quot;  such  a  funny  thing  to  say  if  you're  a  small  child?  Many  times  after  I'd  said  it  my  mother  would  ask  me  if  I  was  angry  about  anything.  I  told  her  I  didn't  think  so.  Maybe  what  I  should  have  said  to  her  was  that  I  just  didn't  like  to  have  any-  one  worrying  about  me.  But  I  don't  know  if  I  knew  that  yet.  After  a  while  my  mother  didn't  say  any  more  about  it,  butshe  would  still  sometimes  look  at  me  closely  when  I  said  it,  as  if  she  were  looking  not  just  into  my  eyes  but  into  my  whole  face,  if  that's  possible.  I  did  start  to  wonder  once  ifit  might  have  something  to  dowith  the  trains  that  used  to  go  by  our  house-if  the    things  I  was  thinking  and  saying  might  be  funny  because  whenever  I  asked  anyone  a  question  I  didn't  hear  the  answer  right  because  just  then  a  train  went  by.  This  is  nice  and  hot,  this  vegetable  soup.  I  make  it  with  celery,  onions,  and  carrots.  Fresh  tomato  for  base.  The  sandwich  I  baked  the  bread  for  in  the  wood  stove.  Now,  it  might  look  like  that's  roast  beef  in  the  sandwich,  but  it's  really  a  thin-sliced  leftover  from  last  night.  We  had  steak,  with  green  beans  and  mashed  potatoes,  and  then  apple  piefor  dessert.  I  could  have  brought  some  apple  pie  with  me  today,  but  there  was  this  nice  little  piece  of  angel-food  cake.  It  wasn't  so  cold  yesterday,  but  I  didn't  take  my  usual  walk  out  here.  A  rather  cheerless  day,  yesterday.  Maybe  just  because  it's  the  end  of  the  season.  Couldn't  interest  myself  in  anything-  not  knitting,  not  reading,  not  anything  -so  I  just  crawled  into  bed  with  my  thoughts.  Just  as  one  thing  I  say  is  &quot;Don't  worry  about  me,&quot;  one  thing  I  think  is  that  you  love  somebody  by  living  with  them.  Now,  my  husband-maybe  he  lived  with  me  because  I  loved  him,  and  even  maybe  he  lived  with  me  because  he  loved  me,  but  he  never  loved  me  by  living  with  me.  Anyway,  I  was  mar-ried  once,  long  ago.  Three  children,  two  now  away.  The  satellite  dish  up  by  the  barn,  next  to  the  road,  on  this  side?  Hard  to  miss  it.  My  son,  his  wife,  and  the  boys  watch  programs  from  all  over  the  world  now.  I  really  do  like  living  in  my  own  home  with  family  about,  yet  often  when  I  hear  them  talking  and  I  think  it  has  to  dowith  people  around  herebut  the  names  aren't  familiar  and  I  ask,  it  turns  out  to  be  about  something  that  was  on  TV.  So  I  do  miss  out  on  some  talk  that  way,  because  Ireally  don't  look  at  the  television  too  often.  And  if  I  haven't  much  interesting  to  say  some-  times,  maybe  that's  why.  This  bread  of  mine,  I  think  it's  very  tasty.  It's  from  my  grandmother's  rec-  ipe,  though  I  never  knew  her.  But  I  do  make  it  like  my  mother  did,  not  only  by  the  recipe  but  from  having  watched  her.  So  it  should  be  the  same.  And  I've  started  using  the  wood  stove  again.  So  now  it's  exactly  the  same.  They  say  you  shouldn't  slice  bread  hot,  but  my  mother  would,  for  me.  And  now,  if  anyone's  interested,  I  offer  to  do  it  for  them.  And  I  do  it  for  myself,  too.  Because  it's  always  the  same  for  me,  that  fresh  hot  bread.  The  pond  here,  that's  something  that's  not  the  same.  More  like  alake  now.  Up  at  the  other  end,  it's  still  as  good  for  wading  as  it  used  to  be,  but  most  times  now  I'll  just  sit  down  at  this  end  and  watch  the  water  trickling  over  the  beaver  dam.  When  it's  warm  enough,  I  dangle  my  feet  in.  And  I  saw  lots  of  baby  beavers  this  summer-so  cute.  Do  you  think  people  change?  May-  be  it's  that  they  appear  to-if  they  really  do,  I  don't  know.  If  it's  a  sudden  change,  maybe  it's  just  that  they  go  back  to  being  like  they  really  were  all  along.  If  it's  a  slow  change,  as  they  grow  older,  it's  probably  just  them  becoming  more  like  they  are-I  think  people  don't  get  less  like  they  are;  they  get  more  like  they  are.  Some-  times  the  change  is  toward  you.  But  sometimes  it's  away.  Even  if  they  love  you.  Even  if  you  love  them  by  living  with  them.  I  like  a  crusty  bread.  Last  spring,  when  the  manwho  sold  my  son  the  satellite  dish  told  him  that  the  sig-  nal  wasn't  coming  in  good  because  of  thebig  old  elm  tree  across  the  road  by  the  house,  that  it  was  getting  in  the  way  of  the  reception,  everyone-my  " b"son,  my  daughter-in-law,  my  grandsons,  and  then,  because  everyone  else  was,  even  the  man-looked  at  me.  I  loved  that  tree.  It  was  always  there.  It  would  always  make  me  feel  good  to  walk  in  the  yard  through  its  patterned  shadow  on  my  way  into  the  house.  But  then,  across  the  road,there  was  the  satellite  dish.  I  said  they  could  chop  the  tree  down  but  I  wanted  every  bit  of  wood  from  it  cut  and  stacked  in  a  pile  by  itself.  And  though  I  hadn't  done  it  for  years,  since  we'd  got  an  electric  stove  and  a  fur-  nace,  I  started  back  using  the  old  wood  stove,  which  we'd  left  in  the  kitchen  mostly  for  looks.  It's  better  to  cook  bread  in  a  wood  stove  anyway.  You  can  tell  the  difference  not  justin  the  crust  but  alsoin  taste.  That  elm  tree  was  healthy.  Perfect.  Solid  all  the  way  through.  So  at  least  I'm  putting  it  to  good  use.  Even  with  such  a  warm  summer  I  did.  And  I  will,  until  that  wood's  used  up.  Anyway,  it's  something  else  to  keep  me  occupied.  I  do  like  a  full  day.  That  way,  when  night  comes  I'm  tired  and  can  fall  asleep  fast.  Then  morning  comes  quick.  After  breakfast,  that's  when  I  take  my  walk  down  behind  the  house  where  the  trains  used  to  run.  Since  they  took  up  the  tracks,  it's  left  a  nice  path.  I  almost  always  see  rabbits.  THE  trains  weren't  really  a  good  explanation  for  all  those  things  I  was  thinking  and  saying  back  then  and  for  all  these  years  now,  because  the  trains  went  by  only  four  times  a  day,  and  one  of  those  times  I  was  usually  in  school  andyou  could  hardlyhear  the  train  from  the  school.  And  two  more  times  I'd  be  in  bed-for  the  late-night  train,  I'd  be  asleep,  or  almost  asleep,  and  for  the  early-morning  train  I'd  be  just  waking  up.  So  unless  I  was  dream-  ing  and  asking  questions  and  getting  answers  in  my  dreams,  and  with  just  one  other  time  of  day  when  the  train  went  by,  the  things  I've  always  been  thinking  and  saying  couldn't  have  had  much  to  do  with  those  trains.  You  know know,  at  night,  if  I  thinkabout  it,  I  start  to  miss  the  sound  of  the  trains.  What  I  will  miss  now,  until  spring,  is  people  coming  upfrom  the  city  for  vegetables  and  things.  Sometimes  you  meet  people  who,  even  though  you  never  saw  them  before,  when  you  talk  to  them  it's  as  if  they're  answering  questions  inside  of  you  that  you  don't  even  ask.  People  like  that  I  start  think-  ing  I  could  live  with.  Some  things  have  happened  in  my  life  and  some  haven't.  And  I  always  got  alongby  going  carefully-that's  even  how  I  have  to  walknow.  But  you  see  a  little  light  and  you  scratch  at  it.  For  a  little  more  light.  That's  what  I  do.  If  you  find  life  a  little  dark,  I  think  that's  what  to  do.  Even  if  it  only  amounts  to  making  tea  for  someone  and  serving  cookies.  Any  little  things  I  might  do  to  get  a  little  more  light-well,  I'm  not  ashamed  to  do  them.  Could  be  an  early  cold  winter.  The  moon  was  getting  nice  and  round  last  night,  so  there  might  be  a  frost  soon.  I  should  cover  the  tomatoes.  I  wonder  if  anyone  will  remember  that  I  like  to  take  my  own  apples  down  to  the  cider  mill  to  get  pressed.  Won't  make  any  plans,  but  I  love  to  go.  Didn't  get  enough  beets  this  year-  enough  to  eat,  but  not  enough  to  pickle.  Next  year,  more  beets,  and  maybemore  Swiss  chard,  too.  And  some  flowers  closer  to  the  house.  The  angel  food's  gone,  so  I'll  get  on  my  way.  You  know,  whenever  I  cross  the  road  now,  even  if  I'm  looking  down  just  at  my  feet,  I  can  feel  the  satellite  dish  above  and  behind  me  where  it  wasn't  before,  and  the  tree  and  its  shadow  not  above  and  ahead  of  me  where  they  were  before.  All  those  things  seem  to  make  me  walk  differ-  ently-not  slower  but  stiffer.  How  would  it  all  look  to  you  after  I  walked  from  the  beaver  dam  here,  through  the  field?  Up  by  theroad,  as  you  drove  over  the  rise?  On  the  left  you'd  see  the  barn,  then  the  satellite  dish,  then  me-don't  worry  'bout  me  -crossing  the  white  line  in  the  road  on  my  way  to  the  yard  and  the  house  on  the  right.  But  you  wouldn't  see  a  patterned  shadow  of  the  tree  on  the  house  and  the  yard,  andyou  wouldn't  see  the  tree.  "