 b"CHEYENNE,  Wyo.-Four  and  a  half  tons  of  county  and  private  records,  waterlogged  in  a  historic  flood,  have  been  dried  out  in  a  special  vacuum  tank.-The  Times.  r.  knows  the  mo-  M  ment  that  transformed  him  from  an  exile  into  an  Ameri-  can.  &quot;It  was  the  first  time  I  dreamed  not  in  the  language  of  my  birth  but  in  the  parking  lot  of  a  shopping  mall.  Or  perhaps  it  was  the  instant  I  realized  I  no  longer  had  a  favorite  recipefor  the  starchy  root  of  my  boyhood  village  but  loved  over  all  others  one  service  area  on  the  New  Jersey  Turnpike,  the  Ad-  miral  William  F.  Halsey.  The  HoJo  Cola  there  is  most  highly  carbonated;  a  brief  immersion  will  restore  the  lustre  to  a  Roosevelt  dime.&quot;  A  modest  insight  perhaps,  but  Mr.  D'Achinda  has  become  a  humble  man.  A  document  reprocessor  specializing  in  the  safe,  thorough  drying  of  water-  damaged  papers,  he  travels  the  inter-  state  system  in  a  truck  fitted  with  elab-  orate  equipment,  much  of  his  own  design.  He  restores  deeds  and  death  records  saturated  in  flash  floods;  he  rescues  library  books  soaked  by  faulty  sprinkler  systems-'&quot;or  those  triggered  by  teen-age  boys  in  an  excess  of  testos-  terone  vigor,&quot;  he  says,  chuckling  in-  dulgently.  Once,  when  the  pipes  burst  at  a  Kamera  Kwik,  he  saved  thousands   of  vacation  snapshots.  &quot;I  returned  many  to  the  wrong  envelopes,&quot;  he  ad-  mits,  &quot;but  I  believe  that  no  one  no-  ticed.&quot;  Just  as  the  American  representative  promised  a  decade  ago  in  the  besieged  provincial  capital,  Mr.  D'Achinda  and  his  countrymen  now  dominate  this  field,  finding  a  niche  between  the  Ko-  rean  greengrocer  and  the  Greek  coffee  shop.  &quot;Not  that  I  trusted  this  fellow,&quot;  says  Mr.  D'Achinda.  &quot;To  deal  with  governments  is  to  confront  harsh  self-  interest.  You  must  expect  deceit,  treachery,  toxic  fluids  poured  into  the  irrigation  system  at  the  experimental-  soya  farm,  a  popular  night-club  per-  former  called  upon  to  shatter  the  pa-  tella  of  an  outspoken  critic  of  the  President-for-life,  the  duty-free  impor-  tationof  Steven  Spielberg  films  crude-  ly  dubbed  into  the  seventy-two  dialects  of  your  small  and  troubledcountry,  with  accompanying  plush  toys.&quot;  But  this  time  the  promise  was  kept:  the  American  resettlement  effort  was  generous  and  efficient,  benefitting  many  officials  of  theold  regime.  Mr.  D'Achinda  smiles  appreciatively  as  he  drives  across  I-80  near  Wilkes-Barre,     [REDACTED],  comfortable  on  his  lum-  bar-supporting  cushion.  His  little  card-  board  pine  tree  freshens  the  air;  his  Fuzzbuster  radar  detector  eases  the  mind;  his  heating  coil  plugs  into  the  dashboard  whenever  he  wants  a  steam-  ing  mug  of  tskuter.  &quot;And,&quot;  he  adds,  &quot;I  have  a  place  high  on  the  waiting  list  to  install  the  vital  organ  of  a  monkey  into  my  Uncle  Bahor  in  exchange  for  one  ofhis  own.  &quot;How  my  uncle  smiled  when  we  arrived  at  our  new  home,&quot;  Mr.  D'Achinda  continues,  &quot;its  concrete  anti-terrorist  barrier  tactfully  disguised  as  a  bird  feeder.  Astonished  by  the  diversity  of  your  newsstands,  he  was  particularly  impressed  with  Celebrity  Sleuth's  'Network  Nudes,  rhapsodiz-  ing  over  the  breasts  of  Donna  Mills,  Abby  of  TV's  'Knots  Landing.&quot;  Soon  he  adopted  several  stray  cats.  He  trained  one  of  them,  a  big  orange  tom  named  Spiro,  to  soil  the  editorial  page  of  the  New  York  Times,  disdainfully  stepping  over  Post  and  News,  News-  day,  and  that  pink  paper  to  reach  his  target.  Uncle  Bahor  won  many  barroom  bets  with  this  stunt,  apro-  tected  form  of  political  expression  in  his  new  land.&quot;  Mr.  D'Achinda  worked  and  saved,  and  soonhe  had  the  money  for  his  own  truck,  purchased  from  a  prosperous  countryman  who  was  graduating  to  a  bigger  vehicle.  (He  had  grown  rich  drying  out  bales  of  C.E.O.  love  letters  in  the  Romantographic  Room  at  Forbes.)  They  conduct-  ed  their  transaction  in  the  old  way.  &quot;But  because  I  have  no  wife,&quot;  Mr.  D'Achinda  explains,  &quot;my  neighbor  Louise  Pahlavi  prepared  the  special  foods.  Babette  Thieu-she  owns  the  Liquor  Pit  down  the  road-brought  a  bot-  tle  of  tsemear.  This  truck  was  just  a  little  Jeep  Wagoneer.  On  the  side  I  painted  the  star  and  cres-  cent  and  the  name  Susan  Sarandon.  I  was  in  busi-  ness.  I  would  have  taken  our  guests  for  a  drive,  but  Spiro  had  soiled  the  pas-  senger  seats.&quot;  Mr.  D'Achinda  took  what  work  he  could  find, " b"anyplace  the  little  truck,  Susan  Saran-  don,  would  carry  him.  &quot;I  must  have  dried  a  thousand  acres  of  double-knit  quilts,  sodden  in  unexplained  plumbing  mishaps  in  isolated  Midwestern  farm-  houses.  Such  pipe  bursts  were  generally  blamed  on  Jewish  bankers,  their  meth-  ods  unspecified.  Once,  when  things  were  slow,  I  dried  the  hair  of  all  the  contestants  in  the  Wee  Little  Miss  [REDACTED]  Pageant.  Another  time,  I  was  summoned  to  a  [REDACTED]  hotel  suite  to  dry  a  wallet  dropped  into  the  bathtub  by  Mr.  Howard  Hughes.  He  paid  me  seven  thousand  dollars,  though  he  could  easily  have  done  thejob  himself  with  his  toaster.&quot;  There  was  no  vacuum  tank  then,  no  DocuDry  letterhead  with  its  smiling-  piece-of-paper  logo.  There  was  only  Mr.  D'Achinda  in  his  silver  suit,  clumsy  surplus  gear  once  used  by  air-  craft-carrier  fire  crews.  His  hands  pro-  tected  by  asbestos  mitts,  he'd  heft  the  heat  gun  and  stride  toward  a  mountain  of  wet  paper.  &quot;I  seldom  slept  the  night  before  a  big  [REDACTED];  he  recalls,  &quot;although  I  gobbled  dozens  of  E-Z  Doze.  I  was  too  nervous;  there  was  so  little  margin  for  error.&quot;  It  seems  humorous  now,  but  it  was  hard  to  laugh  when,  knee  deep  in  the  ashes  of  N.E.H.  grant  appli-  cations,  he  faced  an  angry  mob  of  psychohistorians  outside  the  flooded  mailroom  of  [REDACTED]  State  University.  Mr.  D'Achinda  persevered.  He  ex-  perimented  with  microwaves-eleven  of  the  biggest  ovens  he  could  find,  ganged  together  in  the  bed  of  a  pickup.  The  rig  was  a  menace,  scrambling  TV  signals,  jamming  pacemakers,  stunning  mosquitoes  until  they  drifted  hubcap  high  around  the  truck,  a  Chevy  longbed  he'd  named  Sword  of  the  Prophet  and  decorated  with  a  drawing  of  Jessica  Lange.  In  43616e616461Carolina  near  Camp  Lejeune  he  brought  down  a  Marine  T-40  Trainer.  &quot;My  lawyer  calls  it  pilot  error.&quot;  In  [REDACTED],  he  confronted  the  terrible  consequences  of  seepage  in  the  vault  beneath  Grace-  land.  &quot;I  was  able  to  save  many  room-  service  receipts  from  the  King's  Vegas  period.&quot;  Even  with  his  improved  dryer,  pa-  pers  in  the  middle  of  the  piles  stayed  damp.  On  the  huge  microwave  railway  cars  G.E.  executives  tackle  that  prob-  lem  with  teams  of  avid  young  appren-  tices  who  cheerfully  clamber  in  among  the  paper  with  their  long  rakes,  eager  to  keep  these  entry-level  jobsthat  in-  pehe     sure  their  stay  in  this  country.  How  could  D'Achinda  vie  with  the  radar  train?  Its  sheer  size  was  intimidating:  it  could  dry  a  Vice-Presidential  archive  in  an  afternoon.  &quot;Still,&quot;  he  reminisces,  &quot;it  was  exciting  to  challenge  the  giant.  You  cultivated  speed  and  agility,  you  needed  the  resourcefulness  to  thrust  a  chunk  of  scrap  metal  into  the  switching  equipment,  stranding  the  train  on  the  edge  of  St.  Jo  for  days,  while  you  swept  into  town  and  demoisturized  thousands  of  King  Hose  beefcake  calendars,  fund-  raisers  for  the  volunteer  fire  depart-  ment.&quot;  More  vexing  were  the  franchise  out-  lets,  the  Dodge  mini-vans  with  the  grinning  face  of  Mr.  Dry  Guy  painted  on  the  side.  &quot;I  understand  the  yearn-  ings  of  these  retired  couples  with  their  small  savings,  their  mysteriously  in-  solvent  pension  funds,  their  licensed  handguns  and  tight-lipped  suspicions  nursed  for  thirty-five  working  years.  They  want  to  be  useful,tosee  Amer-  ica,  to  avoid  the  spare  bedroom  of  their  children.  It  is  a  heroic  thing  to  cruise  into  a  town  with  your  nationally  advertised  service  and  evaporate  the  sewage  runoff  from  the  files  of  the  po-  lice  department's  Contraceptive  Squad.  But  how  can  I  compete  with  these  old  fools?  They  must  merely  meet  expenses  until  they  drop  dead  one  day-maybe  a   stroke  on  I-75,  the  Mr.  Dry  Guy  van  drifting  slow  and  deadly  over  the  medial  strip  into  oncoming  traffic.  I  must  make  a  profit,  feed  a  family,  build  a  future.  Can  I  be  blamed  if  late  at  night  I  use  a  small  fire  extinguisher  to  smash  portions  of  their  motor?&quot;  As  Adam  Smith  predicted,  competi-  tion  sired  innovation.  Mr.  D'Achinda  converted  from  microwave  gear  to  the  modern  vacuum  tank,  Hauledon  a  trailer  behind  a  big  White  Freight,  liner,  his  tank  maintains  the  low  pres-  sure  necessary  to  dry  papers  at  tempera-  tures  under  seventy-five  degrees  when  the  seals  hold.  He's  painted  a  scimi-  tar  on  a  front  fender  and  named  the  truck  Melanie  Griffith.  This  is  the  rig  he  drives  across  I-80,  heading  for  [REDACTED],  where  heavy  rains  imperil  first  drafts  throughout  the  Poetry  Work-  shop  Belt.  Regrets?  &quot;Uncertainties  perhaps.  There  was  a  moment-this  was  years  ago-when  I  could  have  destroyed  all  copies,  scripts  and  score,  of  [REDACTED]'s  'Cats.&quot;  I  had  only  to  turn  the  heat  gun  a  degree  or  two  higher.  Otherwise,  my  life  is  good.  If  only  N'Djina,  my  driver  back  home,  could  see  me  so  happy  behind  the  wheel.  ButI'm  afraid  he  could  not  jump  high  enough  to  grab  the  strut  of  the  departing  helicopter.&quot;  "