 b"SEVENTEEN  kilometres  east  of  Nachlingen,  a  tiny  farming  com-  munity  scalloped  along  the  woolly  green  skirt  of  the  Black  Forest,  where  this  morning  the  head  of  an-  other  chicken  has  popped  like  a  blister  from  the  heat-*BAVARIAN  BIRDS  LOS-  ING  HEADS  OVER  SUMMER  HEAT  WAVE,&quot;  he  considers  as  a  possible  headline-Frank  realizes  Raoul  Duke  must  be  dying.  &quot;And  the  Duke,  he's  fine,  too.  He's  been  a  little  tired  lately,  but  the  vet  says  that's  natural.  He's  had  along,  long,  rich,  full  life,  Frank.  The  Duke,  you  know,  not  Dr.  Vernon.  If  he  was  a  person  he'd  be  a  hundred  and  twelve  years  old.&quot;  Such  news  of  Frank's  past  life  comes  to  him  in  regu-  lar  airmail  installments:  postcards  from  Universal  Studios  and  Knott's  Berry  Farm  (his  son);  concerned  notes  from  the  city  desk  of  the  Washington  Post  (Sandra,  his  former  editor),;  manila  envelopes  thick  with  documents-sign  where  indicated-from  the  D.C.  law  firm  of  Martin,  Martin  &amp;  Sullivan  (Anne,  his  ex-wife,  indirectly);  and  audiocassettes  wrapped  in  brown  butcher  paper  and  return-addressed  3434  Silver  Maple  Way,  Landover,  [REDACTED].  As  Frank  pursues  and  re-  ports  the  sensational  stories  of  Europe,  these  dispatches  from  home  follow  him,  hotel  to  hotel  (he  no  longerhas  a  permanent  address),  across  the  Conti-  nent.  It  is  a  tapethat  speaks  to  him  now,  from  the  Blaupunkt  of  the  rented  BMW,  in  the  voice  of  his  ex-mother-  in-law.  Her  hands  arecrippled  with  arthritis,  and  she  must  use  atape  re-  corder  to  update  Frank  on  her  persis-  tent  hemorrhoids,  encroaching  subur-  ban  blacks,  and  the  Duke,  whom  she  accepted  into  her  fenced  back  yard  two  months  ago,  following  the  sudden  splintering  of  the  Frank  Borden  clan.  &quot;So  you  don't  worry  about  the  Duke-  he's  doing  just  fine.&quot;  There  is  a  pause  on  the  tape  and  a  clump  of  white  wooden  houses,  windows  shuttered  against  the  heat,  drifts  silently  past.  Out  there,  Frank  knows,  beyond  the  rows  of  corn,  ears  drying  and  curling  on  the  stalk  like  tiny  brown  fingers-  out  there  an  uncontainable  pressure  of  steam  and  brain  fluids  is  brewing  in  chicken  heads  across  the  land.  More  than  two  dozen  have  exploded  since  Monday  in  this  area  alone.  &quot;And  Frank,  Ijust  loved  that  article  you  wrote  about  the  little  baby  Dutch  girl  with  the  two  heads.&quot;  T  takes  several  minutes  for  Frank's  call  to  roam  the  thousands  of  miles  ofcable  between  the  Federal  Republic  of  [REDACTED]  and  Landover,  [REDACTED];  in  the  meantime  he  browses  through  that  morning's  edition  of  the  \xc2\xa7ud-  deutsche  Zeitung,  left  unattended  on  the  counter  of  the  Nachlingen  post  office.  The  mail  clerk,  phone  clamped  between  his  hunched  shoulder  and  cheek,  fans  himself  with  a  sheaf  of  letters  and  sighs.  When  he  sees  that  Frank  has  come  to  the  right  page,  he leans  across  the  counter  and  raps  the  day's  weather  report  with  a  knuckle.  &quot;Horrible,  eh?&quot;  &quot;Horrible,&quot;  agrees  Frank,  reading.  A  coolfront  is  supposed  to  move  up  out  of  the  mountains  by  the  weekend,  but  today  the  air  is  as  intractable  as  hot  cement.  It  turns  out  that  Raoul  Duke  is,  as  Frank  suspected,  dead-dead  even  be-  fore  Anne's  mother  made  her  latest  tape.  &quot;I  didn't  want  to  worry  you,  Frank,&quot;  she  tells  him,  her  voice  bob-  bing  in  a  wash  of  transatlantic  static.  &quot;With  everything  you  have  on  your  mind  and  all.  I  know  how  you  loved  old  Duke.&quot;  &quot;For  heaven's  sake,  Dot,&quot;  he  says.  She  makes  the  situation  sound  much  grimmer  than  it  is.  Raoul  Duke  was  an  old  dog,  rescued  from  the  gas  chambers  of  the  Humane  Society  when  Frank  was  still  in  college,  more  than  fifteen  years  ago.  As  Dot  herself  said,  Raoul  Duke's  was  a  long,  rich,  full  life,  and  now  he  has  gone  to  a  deserved  rest.  Pity,  Frank  has  come  to  believe  these  past  two  months  in  Europe,  should  be  reserved  for  the  truly  bizarre  trage-  dies  of  life-the  bi-headed  babies  and  noggin-popping  poultry-not  the  ev-  eryday  glitches  of  dog  death  and  divorce.  Listening  absent-mindedly  to  Dot's  heartfelt  condolences-a  solid,  stable  professional,  he  has  always  been  her  favorite,  her  other  daughters  having  gone  through  long  strings  of  some-  times  violent  [REDACTED]  Marines  and  body-  and-fender  men-Frank  comes  to  a  short  article  that  shows  promise:  a  so-  prano  in  an  Italian  opera  company,  distraught  over  uncontrollable  weight  gain,  has  fled  her  company  at  the  sum-  mer  Music  Festival  in  [REDACTED].  Au-  thorities  say  she  is  believed  to  be  sui-  cidal.  Now  thet,  Frank  thinks-that  is  something  to  get  excited  about;  that  is  News  of  the  World.  &quot;He  went  in  his  sleep,  Frank.  There  was  no  pain.  Dr.  Vernon  said  it  was  like  a  feather  floating  away  in  a  breeze.&quot;  When  the  conversation  is  over,  Frank  hands  the  phone  back  to  the  mail  clerk  and  pays  for  the  call.  He  cannot  imagine  Raoul  Duke  floating  anywhere.  More  likely,  Anne's  mother  recruited  the  Carver  boys  from  next  door  to  lug  the  huge  corpse  through  the  back-yard  minefield  of  dog  dung  and  into  the  bed  of  their  pickup.  " b"&quot;Funny,  eh?&quot;  the  clerk  asks.  He  raps  a  knuckle  on  the  suicidal-soprano  story,  puffs  his  cheeks  out,  and  sings  a  snatch  of  Wagner  in  a  hoarse,  creaky  falsetto.  Frank  smiles  and  consults  a  yellow  train  schedule  taped  to  one  of  the  post  office's  imitation-marble  pillars.  It  should  be  no  problem,  he  decides.  He  is  not  due  in  [REDACTED]  until  Friday.  If  his  afternoon  interviews  today  go  off  with-  out  hitch  or  delay,  he  can  (a)  speed  back  to  Stuttgart,  (b)  pick  up  his  lug-  gage  from  the  hotel,  and  (c)  make  it  to  the  station  by  eleven  o'clock.  He  will  be  able  to  compose  the  chicken  piece  on  the  overnight  train  and  be  in  [REDACTED]  (&quot;BEEFY  DIVA  DIVES  TO  DEATH,&quot;  he  considers;  &quot;THIS  FAT  LADY  WON'T  SING  ANYMORE&quot;)  by  dawn.  &quot;Thank  you,&quot;  Frank  tells  the  mail  clerk.  He  folds  the  newspaper  into  a  tight,  expert  rectangle  and  tucks  it  beneath  his  arm.  BETWEEN  sips  of  warm  Hacker-  Pschorr,  the  chicken  rancher,  a  friendly  old  man  with  corrugated  brown  skin,  motions  out  the  window  and  claps  his  hands  together.  &quot;You  are  in  the  barn  the  work  doing  and-bang!  -out  of  the  hounds  the  devil  it  scares.&quot;  He  chuckles  and  refills  Frank's  glass.  Frank  writes  this  information  in  his  notebook.  &quot;It's  horrible,&quot;  he  says.  Re-  ally,  though,  not  all  that  horrible.  It  would  have  been  better  if  this  barn-  yard  blitzkrieg  (good,  Frank  says  to  himself;  he  writes  the  phrase  down)  were  spiked  with  an  element  of  humen  tragedy:  animals,  no  matter  how  weird  or  wacky  their  demise,  generated  less  interest  than  would,  say,  a  buxom  blond  farmer's  daughter  killed  or  even  blinded  by  an  errant  beak  or  skull  bone.  Frank  remembers  his  first  big  story  with  the  News,  a  story  that  had  it  all.  It  was  back  in  May,  not  long  after  he  left  the  Post  and  took  the  job  as  a  stringer  in  Europe.  Four  young  nuns  drowned  themselves  in  the  Seine,  just  below  where  the  Pont  Neuf  connects  the  Left  Bank  with  the  Ile  de  la  Cit\xc3\xa9.  He  and  Anne  had  strolled  to  thecenter  of  that  very  bridge  on  their  honey-  moon,  eleven  years  earlier,  perhaps  on  the  same  afternoon  their  son  was  con-  ceived.  Frank  plans  to  take  Tony  to  the  Pont  Neuf  when  he  comes  to  visit  in     Shannk\xef\xac\x82m  August-it's  a  good  view  of  43616e616461Dame.  &quot;The  Hunchback  of  43616e616461Dame&quot;  with  Charles  Laughton  is  one  of  Tony's  favorites.  They  used  to  act  it  out,  Tony  and  Frank  taking  turns  as  Quasimodo,  with  Raoul  Duke  as  the  angry  mob  of  4672616e6365ians.  When  the  hunchback  rang  the  bells  of  the  cathe-  dral  (the  bass  keys  of  the  old  [REDACTED]  Anne's  grandmother  had  left  them  in  her  will),  Raoul  Duke  would  race,  barking,  around  the  living  room,  slip-  ping  across  the  worn  parquet  floor,  his  movement  more  lateral  than  forward.  Eventually  he  would  bounce  off  a  wall,  causing  the  family  photos  and  Impres-  sionist  prints  to  rattle  and  shimmy  on  their  hooks,  and  collide  with  Tony.  Down  they  would  go  in  a  giggling,  panting  heap,  thin  white  arms  hugging  thick  black  neck.  Frank  smiles  to  himself  without  los-  ing  the  look  of  rapt  and  respectful  attention  he  has  refined  over  so  many  years  of  interviewing  Pentagon  offi-  cials  and  Senate  subcommittee  chair-  men.  Ignoring  the  old  farmer's  amia-  ble  chattering,  he  pushes  his  family  from  his  mind  and  brings  the  day-  dreams  back  into  a  proper  organiza-  tional  framework.  [REDACTED]:  what  a  story.  A  suicide  pact,  rumors  of  rampant  les-  bianism  at  the  convent,  the  possi-  bility  of  an  illegitimate  infant  child,  its  throat  cut  and  its  tiny  body  buried  beneath  a  great  stone  in  the  cata-  combs  of  St.  Julien  Hospitalier.  The  last  part  was  mostly  conjecture,  of  course,  and  Frank's  new  editors  in  [REDACTED]  had  loved  him  for  it.  They-  and  he-had  been  uncertain  how  he  would  adapt  to  the  nature  of  his  new  position,  to  the  nature  of  the  tabloid  medium,  but  the  [REDACTED]  story  dispelled  all  doubt.  They  gave  it  a  double-truck  spread  with  two  banners,  five  kick-  ers,  and,  inch  for  inch,  more  headline  than  copy.  The  Diva  idea  has  that  kind  of  potential,  Frank  thinks,  partic-  ularly  if  she  leaps  from  the  heights  of  Nonnberg  Abbey  and  flattens  a  tour-  ist  or  two  on  the  cobblestones  below.  &quot;Photos  of  the  chickens?&quot;  he  asks  the  farmer.  The  old  man  shrugs  and  smiles.  He  cups  his  hand  to  his  ear,  and  for  the  first  time  Frank  notices,  in  the  dis-  tance,  the  throaty  barking  of  weimara-  " b"ners.  &quot;'The  hounds,  you  understand.  It  is  for  them  abig  feast.&quot;  VEN  if  he  had  the  time  or  the  desire,  Frank  would  still  find  it  impossible  to  sleep  on  the  D-train  from  Stuttgart  to  [REDACTED]-a  midnight  lo-  cal  that  clattersto  astop  every  ten  minutes  and  never  picks  up  enough  speed  to  blow  a  cooling  breeze  through  the  windows.  &quot;The  weather  is  horri-  ble,&quot;  an  old  woman  in  a  Bavarian  peasant  dress  tells  him.  She  watches  with  curiosity  as  he  secures  his  brief-  case  to  the  seat  next  to  him,  using  two  long  strips  of  double-sided  tape  he  car-  ries  for  such  a  purpose.  He  props  open  the  lid  of  the  briefcase  and  takes  from  it  a  ballpoint  pen,  a  legal  pad,  and  a  blue  plastic  box  of  index  cards  (blue  is  for  Central  Europe,  red  for  Western,  green  for  Southern).  He  copies  infor-  mation  from  the  index  cards-coded  &quot;CHIX&quot;  in  the  upper-left-hand  corner  -onto  the  legal  pad.  When  he  finishes  with  a  card  he  pins  it  to  a  cork  board  fastened  to  the  insideof  the  briefcase  lid.  The  chicken  story  is  completed  just  as  the  train  crosses  over  into  Austria,  a  little  before  three  o'clock  in  the  morn-  ing.  Before  shutting  the  briefcase,  Frank  retrieves  last  week's  postcard  from  Tony,  realizing  that  the  photo,  an  aerial  view  of  Chavez  Ravine  inset  with  an  action  shot  of  Fernando  Valenzuela,  is  reversed-Fernando  ap-  pears  a  righty.  He  taps  the  postcard  against  his  knee.  At  least  his  son  will  grow  upwatching  a  team  that  plays  on  real  grass.  It  should  comfort  him,  Frank  supposes,  that  Anne  did  not  choose  to  pursue  her  new  life  (her  New  Life,  as  she  put  it  to  him  in  a  letter)  in  [REDACTED]  or  [REDACTED].  &quot;Dear  Dad,  Everything  O.K.  here,&quot;  the  back  of  the  card  reads,  as  short  and  sweet  as  always.  &quot;Gramma  told  me  R.D.  was  sick,  and  I  was  sad.&quot;  There  in  the  rocking  and  swaying  train  car,  the  backs  of  his  slacks  wet  against  the  red  vinyl  seat,  Frank  him-  self  does  not  feel  sad.  He  would  have,  of  course,  before  taking  up  his  new  job.  After  all,  this  was  a  dog  so  tangled  in  the  weave  of  his  life  that  Frank  can  honestly  say  that  he  is  unable  to  drum  up  any  image  of  the  past  fifteen  years  without  that  big  black  block  head  even-  tually  pushing  and  snuffling  under  the  fingers  of  memory.  Frank  remembers   Anne  standing  in  the  kitchen  of  the  little  house  under  the  sycamores  of  T  Street,  dicing  Spanish  onions  for  the  potato  salad,  her  blond  hair  twisted  into  a  ponytail  and  plugged  through  the  slot  of  an  Orioles  cap.  It  is  '79  or  '80,  because  Tony  is  still  inhis  high  chair,  hollering  and  pumping  the  air  with  his  tiny,  no-knuckle  fists.  Anne  is  weeping  and  laughing  as  she  stumbles  over  Raoul  Duke's  broadback  topull  a  box  of  graham  crackers  from  the  shelf.  Frank  laughs  to  himself-the  Duke  always  staked  out  the  kitchen  when  there  was  the  chance  of  food  being  dropped.  Still,  no  sadness;  Frank  is  proud  of  his  self-control.  &quot;Apple?&quot;  asksthe  old  woman  sitting  across  from  Frank,  who  smiles  and  shakes  his  head.  She  sighs  and  waves  a  hand  in  front  of  her  face  as  if  to  brush  the  stew  of  hot  night  air  away.  It  is  the  hottest  summer  she  can  remember,  she  says,  and  she  was  reared  in  the  flatlands  near  Mainz,  where  summers  are  noto-  rious.  Before  she  can  extract  the  pictures  of  her  seven  grandchildren  (all  &quot;big,  strapping  boys&quot;)  from  the  leather  rucksack  at  her  feet,  Frank  reopens  his  briefcase  and  busies  himself  with  the  task  of  coding  index  cards.  This  new  set  he  marks  &quot;FAT&quot;  in  the  upper-left-  hand  corner.  IN  [REDACTED]  Frank  phones  in  the  chicken  saga,  twelve  tight  but  lurid  paragraphs  heavy  on  the  adjectives,  to  the  Western  Hemisphere  editor  of  the  News.  Cecil,  afriend  of  Frank's  since  college,  now  his  boss,  spends  most  of  his  time  rewriting  clips  from  the  Lon-  don  tabs-gruesome  murders,  freak  accidents,  giant  lizards  on  [REDACTED]-and  punching  them  into  a  derelict  Com-  pugraphic  typesetter  that  chugs  noisily  in  one  corner  of  his  office.  Frank  can  understand,  then  (even  if  he  does  not  always  appreciate),  Cecil's  need  to  chat  when  one  of  the  regional  stringers  rings  a  story  in.  &quot;Good  stuff,&quot;  Cecil  says  when  Frank  has  finished  dictating.  &quot;Re-  minds  me  of  that  lady  from  [REDACTED]  who  puther  parakeet  in  the  Waring  to  spin  it  dry.  BYE  BYE  BIRDIE,'  May  of  '88,  mug  of  the  guilty  appliance  on  the  jump  page.  Talk  to  me,  Frank:  how's  it  going?  How  you  doing  with  the  Anne  situation?&quot;  Frank  works  the  shoes  from  his  feet  and  wiggles  his  toes.  From  the  window  of  his  hotel  room  hecan  see  the  peak  of  the  Untersberg  beginning  to  glow  with  dawn.  The  international  travel  alarm  " b"clock  he  has  set  on  the  nightstand  says  that  it  is  al-  most  9  p.m.  in  [REDACTED].  &quot;'You're  working  late,  Cecil.&quot;  &quot;As  always.  Listen,  Frank,  Carol  and  I  had  Anne  over  to  dinner  a  cou-  ple  of  weeks  ago.  She  said  Tony  will  be  flying  over  next  month.&quot;  'Yes,&quot;  Frank  says,  brightening.  &quot;I  thought  we'd  go  to  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  the  mountains,  maybe  Rome.  He's  a  big  fan  of  gladiators,  chariots,  things  like  that.  I  want  to  take  him  skiing,  but  that'll  have  to  wait  until  winter.  I  think  this  will  really  be  something  for  him.  I  can't  wait  to  take  him  up  to  Ludwig's  castles.&quot;  &quot;I  want  you  to  know  they're  doing  O.K.,&quot;  Cecil  says.  &quot;Anne  has  a  show  on  the  thirty-first.  Just  a  little  place  down  in  [REDACTED],  but  it's  a  start.  Some  guy  from  San  Francisco  bought  the  one  called  'Forest.'  The  one  with  the  things  of  garden  hose?  She's  doing  good.&quot;  Frank  positions  a  stack  of  newspa-  pers  on  the  edge  of  the  bed.  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED]-fresh  from  the  all-night  newsstand  at  the  train  station.  He  squares  the  stack  with  the  palm  of  his  hand  and  takes  out  a  fluorescent  highlighter.  Sources  in  [REDACTED]  won't  be  up  for  another  cou-  ple  of  hours;  he  has  a  chance  to  get  some  work  done.  &quot;No  one  I  talked  to  seems  to  know  why  chickens,  exactly.&quot;  Frank  re-  trieves  an  index  card  from  the  blue  box  and  glances  at  it.  &quot;Try  and  get  in  touch  with  a  Dr.  Harold  Melton,  N.Y.U.  He's  an  animal  pathologist.  His  number  is-&quot;  &quot;Don't  sweat  it,  Frank,&quot;  Cecil  says.  &quot;If  we  can't  get  in  touch  with  a  science  guy  over  at  the  college  we'll  just  jam  a  'DOCS  BAFFLED  BY  on  it  and  run  it  as  is.&quot;  ITH  a  few  calls  to  Festival  offi-  cials,  Frank  tracks  the  Mila-  nese  opera  company  to  one  of  the  hotels  just  off  the  Mozartplatz.  There  the     impresario  of  the  troupe,  a  morose-  looking  man  withan  impeccable  silver  mustache,  tells  Frank  much  that  was  not  in  the  initial  news  story.  This  is  not  the  first  time  his  principal  soprano,  scheduled  to  sing  Susanna,  has  fled  the  stage  because  of  an  unshakable  weight  problem.  'There  was  [REDACTED]  in'85,  Bayreuth  in  \xc2\xa986,  and,  less  than  six  months  ago,  [REDACTED],  where  she  acci-  dentally  pulverized  a  delicate  wrought,  iron  chair  at  a  sidewalk  caf\xc3\xa9  on  the  Karntnerstrasse.  She  dashed  shrieking  into  St.  Stephen's  and  barricaded  her-  self  in  a  confessional  booth.  Her  hus-  band  was  sent  for  to  calm  her  down,  which  he  did,  but  in  her  haste  and  hysteria  she  had  become  jammed;  carpenters  had  to  be  called  in  to  pry  her  from  the  small  wooden  box.  &quot;I  see,&quot;  Frank  says,  scribbling  in  his  notebook.  The  story  is  getting  better  by  the  minute.  &quot;And  they  finally  gother  out  with  crowbars?&quot;  &quot;So  it  has  happened  before,&quot;  the  impresario  says,  looking  at  Frank  with  gloomy  eyes.  &quot;But  this  time,  we  be-  lieve,  is  the  worst.  Her  dilemma,  you  must  understand,  causes  her  the  great-  est  anguish.  We  believe  that  this  time  it     may  have  reached  its  crescendo.  Her  husband  is  searching  for  her,  but  we  do  not  have  much  hope.&quot;  &quot;You  have  no  idea  where  she  might  be?&quot;  Frank  wonders  how  difficult  it  could  be  to  find  a  three-hundred-pound  woman  on  the  narrow,  crooked  streets  of  Old  [REDACTED].  The  impresario  shrugs.  &quot;Yes,  we  are  all  very  worried.  You  should  have  heard  her  sing!  What  a  power,  what  an  agility  of  voice!  Not  since  Ponselle.&quot;  &quot;I  have  to  find  her,&quot;  Frank  says,  standing.  There  is  no  time  to  lose.  &quot;God  bless  you,&quot;  the  impresario  calls  to  him,  touched  by  Frank's  con-  cern.  But  Frank  has  already  closed  his  notebook  and  hurried  from  the  room.  BELOW  the  Casino,  at  the  footof  the  sheer  slate  precipice  that  rises  above  the  Equestrian  Fountain,  there  is  no  body  and  no  sign  of  a  desperate  plunge.  Likewise,  there  is  no  prima  donna  clinging  to  the  battlement  of  Fortress  Hohensalzburg,  wailing  an  aria  and  nibbling  a  Ritter  Sport  bar.  The  sluggish  but  powerful  Salzach  would  probably  sweep  away  anything  that  might  fall  from  its  bridges,  but  " b"still  Frank  picks  his  way  down  the  steep  bank,  through  the  weeds  and  rocks,  past  the  midday  sunbathers,  to  search  along  the  river's  loamy  fringe.  His  biggest  fears  now  are(a)  that  the  Diva  might  decide  on  a  private  death,  opening  her  veins  in  the  tepid  sink  water  of  some  secluded  pension,  (b)  that  she  will  delay  and  delay,  until  finally  Frank  must  give  up  the  chase  in  favor  of  the  story  waiting  for  him  in  [REDACTED]  (neo-Nazis  who  claim  to  have  unearthed  the  real  skeleton  of  Martin  Bormann),  or,  worst,  (c)  that,  as  be-  fore,  she'll  end  up  returning  to  her  company.  A  depressed  but  alive  opera  singer,  three  hundred  pounds  or  not,  isn't  News  of  the  World.  A  copper-colored,  long-haired  dachshund  falls  into  step  behind  Frank,  shyly  sniffing  along  the  path  beside  the  river  but  keeping  suspicious  eyes  upturned.  Frank  stops,  squats,  and  holds  his  hands  out.  &quot;Hey,  boy,  hey  boy,&quot;  he  clucks  in  German  to  the  dog,  which  lifts  its  ears  butdoes  notad-  vance.  &quot;Pretty  puppy,  good  dog,  come  here,  come  here.&quot;  Frank  takes  a  slow,  careful  duck  step  forward.  The  dog  scrambles  into  panicked  action,  its  four  stubby  legs  churning  with  such  ferocity  that  it  backs  up  onto  its  hindquarters  and  topples  over.  Frank,  laughing,  takes  another  step.  &quot;The  way  to  get  dogs  to  like  you,&quot;he  has  told  his  son,  &quot;is  to  show  them  you're  friendly  and  that  you're  not  afraid  of  them.  Then  they'll  know  they  don't  have  to  be  afraid  of  you.&quot;  This  time  the  dog  remembers  to  turn  before  fleeing  and  manages  to  dart  away,  a  leash  fastened  to  its  collar  sizzling  through  the  grass.  When  it  sees  that  Frank  is  trotting  after  it,  whistling  and  clapping  his  hands  against  his  thighs,  it  wheels,  stops,  and  begins  to  growl.  Frank  stops  alsoas  the  dog's  growl  takes  on  a  higher-pitched,  more  threat-  ening  timbre.  &quot;Good  dog.&quot;  Frank  backs  up  and  turns  to  run  as  the  dog  lunges  at  him,  its  clicking  jaws  just  missing  the  back  of  his  ankle.  Adrena-  line,  longer  legs,  and  an  acute  sense  of  embarrassment  (he  does  not  want  to  become  himself  a  two-paragraph  filler)  allow  Frank  to  outsprint  the  dachs-  hund  and  leap  halfway  up  the  river-  bank,  ripping  the  inseam  of  his  slacks  in  the  process.  The  dog  struts  beneath  him,  grinning,  one  long  ear  flopped  up  onto  its  head.  Soon  a  young  boy  runs  up  and  regains  the  leash,  pulling  the  dog  along  in  the  direction  of  the  Ostbriicke.  Frank  glances  at  his  watch-in  [REDACTED]  (in  [REDACTED])  it  is  only  six  o'clock  in  the  morning-and  throws  a  broken  piece  of  shell  limestone  onto  the  flat  stomach  of  the  river.  A  few  sun-  bathers  farther  down  lift  their  heads  off  balled  towels  and  contemplate  with  mild  interest  the  splash  and  the  noodles  of  heat  rising  from  the  water.  Frank  removes  his  suit  coat,  unfastensthe  top  button  of  his  shirt,  and  begins  the  climb  up  to  the  street.  FRANK  stops  by  his  hotel  to  change  pants,  reaching  his  room  just  as  the  phone  rings.  The  voice  on  the  other  end  of  the  line  is  husky,  brusque:  San-  dra,  his  editor  from  the  Post.  &quot;I'm  worried  about  you,  Frank,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;Have  you  talked  with  Anne  lately?&quot;  &quot;Hello,  Sandra,&quot;  he  says,  his  voice  flat.  &quot;Anne  who?&quot;  &quot;It's  a  clich\xc3\xa9,  Frank,  I  know,  but  sooner  or  later  you're  going  to  have  to  start  thinking  about  getting  back  to  your  life,  your  career.  You're  ahelluva  reporter,  Frank,  you're  a  young  man.&quot;  &quot;I  like  my  life,&quot;  Frank  says.  &quot;I  like  my  career.&quot;  THE  downstairs  hallway  is  empty,  but  the  door  to  the  soprano's  room  (No.  8,  as  revealed  by  a  covert  glance  at  the  company  roster  this  morning  )is  locked.  Frank  tries  theold  credit-card  trick  with  his  American  Express  but  manages  only  to  whittle  a  layer  of  rust  from  the  heavy  bolt.  Cir-  cling  the  outside  of  the  hotel,  he  dis-  covers  that  the  windows  of  all  the  ground-floor  rooms  open  on  a  back  alley.  He  paces  off  the  distance  from  the  corner  of  the  building  and  then,  with  the  help  of  a  warped  plastic  milk  crate,  peers  into  the  window  of  No.  8.  The  room  is  empty  except  for  asmall  table,  two  chairs,  a  large  trunk,  and  a  single  bed,  much  too  frail-looking  for  the  huge  creature  Frank  pictures  as  having  occupied  it.  The  window  is  unlocked  and  wide  enough  for  Frank  to  crawl  through.  He  goes  directlyto  the  trunk  and  examines  it.  At  first  he  finds  nothing  that  could  be  of  use-no  diaries,  no  family  photos,  no  horned  Viking  helmet-just  an  as-  sortment  of  toiletries,  several  towels,  an  umbrella.  Digging  deeper  into  the  " b" trunk,  though,  Frank  finds  an  enormous  pair  of  pale-blue  panties.  &quot;For  heaven's  sake,&quot;  he  whispers,  holding  the  panties  up  with  both  hands.  He  can  picture  the  photo  now:  the  Diva's  Drawers  snapped  next  to  a  nor-  mal-sized  pair.  Her  panties  are  the  size  of  a  large  pillowcase.  A  cart  rolls  past  in  the  hallway  and  some-  one  unlocks  a  nearby  door.  Frank  wads  up  the  panties  and  stuffs  them  into  his  pocket.  Waiting  until  he  is  sure  the  alley  is  desert-  ed,  he  crawls  back  through  the  window,  landing  with  one  foot  sunk  deep  into  a  box  of  spoiled  strawberries,  from  the  hotel  restau-  rant,  left  moldering  in  the  heat.  \xe2\x80\x9cN.&quot;  *  ?  HE  desk  clerk  hands  Frank  a  message  when  he  stops  by  his  hotel  for  dinner.  A  representa-  tive  from  the  opera  company  called  earlier  with  the  good  news:  the  Diva  is  still  alive.  Police  say  that  a  woman  fitting  her  description  boarded  an  af-  ternoon  train  to  [REDACTED].  Her  husband  has  been  dispatched  by  car.  &quot;Damn  it,&quot;  Frank  says.  He  collects  his  mail-a  letter  that  has  found  him  early;  he  is  due  here  in  [REDACTED]  late  next  week  for  a  warlock  convention-  and  returns  to  his  room.  The  gloomy  impresario  with  the  silver  mustache  answers  the  phone  on  the  first  ring.  &quot;No,  not  even  her  husband  is  cer-  tain,&quot;  he  tells  Frank.  &quot;She  adores  Mu-  nich-the  English  [REDACTED],  the  Leo-  poldstrasse,  the  galleries.  She  could  be  perhaps  anywhere.&quot;  Then,  after  a  thoughtful  pause:  &quot;The  glockenspiel  is  her  favorite.  Whenever  we  are  in  Mu-  nich  she  visits  the  top  of  the  Old  Peter  bell  tower.&quot;  &quot;'The  Old  Peter  bell  tower,&quot;  Frank  repeats,  spreading  a  Michelin  map  of  [REDACTED]  onto  his  lap.  &quot;It  is  the  best  view.&quot;  The  next  train  to  [REDACTED]  does  not  depart  for  another  hour,  so  Frank  can  no  longer  ignore  the  letter.  In  her  loose,  fluttering  script  Anne  informs  him  that  everything  is  going  well  in  [REDACTED].  She  is  sorry  to  hear  about  Raoul  Duke.  And  she  is  sorry  to  say  that  Tony  won't  be  able  to  come  to  Europe  in  August  after  all.  Orienta-  tion  at  his  new  school  starts  earlier  than  expected,  and  she  wants  him  to  have  enough  time  to  get  adjusted.  She  guesses  Frank  would  want  that,  too.  Frank  crumples  the  letter  up  and  tosses  it  to  the  floor.  His  head  hurts  and  the  small  room  is  suffocating.  The  worst  part  of  the  day  is  over,  but  he  sees  from  the  window  that  the  blue  of  the  sky  is  still  tinged  with  white,  as  if  it  had  been  bled  pale  by  the  heat.  Frank  lies  on  his  bed  and  tries  to  concentrate  on  the  options  at  hand.  Friday,  as  originally  planned,  is  Ber-  lin:  if  he  takes  an  evening  express  to  [REDACTED]  today,  there  is  no  way  he  will  be  able  to  reach  [REDACTED]  until  late  Satur-  day.  And  even  that  schedule  leaves  him  less  than  twenty-four  hours  to  find  the  Diva.  Not  enough  time,  if  things  go  as  they've  gone  today.  And  hers  is  the  kind  of  story-rich  with  human  pathos  and  broad  comedy-that  Frank  cannot  pass  up.  &quot;Won't  work,  Frank,&quot;  Cecil  tells  him  when  he  finally  gets  through  to  L.A.  &quot;Ren\xc3\xa9  called  from  [REDACTED]  City  yesterday  and  said  she  can't  send  the  vampire  stuff  until  she  can  line  up  some  sort  of  victim-pic.  We  have  to  roll  with  the  Bones  of  Bormann  thing.  If  we're  lucky,  the  Skinhead  Rally  at  the  Olym-  pic  Stadium  will  escalate  into  a  riot  Saturday,  and  then  we've  got  a  good,  strong  Nazi  package  for  the  fold  on  3.&quot;  &quot;For  heaven's  sake,&quot;  Frank  says.  &quot;Forget  the  Nazis.  This  opera  story  is  a  real  one.  I  could  be  there  if  I  hustle,  Cecil.&quot;  &quot;Be  where,  Frank?  Suppose  she  is  at  this  tower  place-what  if  she  decides  not  to  ice  herself  yet?  Are  you  going  to  tail  her  around  Europe  until  she  does,  if  she  does?  Tell  me,  have  you  gone  out  of  your  mind?&quot;  Cecil  clearshis  throat  and  pauses.  Frank  knows  he  is  consid-  ering  the  circumstances  and  already  regretting  his  choice  of  words.  &quot;What  " b"I  mean,  Frank,&quot;  Cecil  continues,  in  a  more  reasonable,  more  artificial  tone,  &quot;is  that  you  can  cover  this  soprano  thing  efter  it  happens.  The  other  thing  you  can't.  Skinhead  Nazi  riots  wait  for  no  man,  Frank.  You'll  have  to  forget  [REDACTED].  We  need  you  in  [REDACTED]  this  weekend.&quot;  N  [REDACTED]  Frank  rides  the  U-Bahn  from  the  train  station  to  the  Marienplatz.  Emerging  from  the  sub-  way,  he  shivers  and  pushes  his  hands  into  his  pockets.  In  the  sky  a  mass  of  oyster-gray  clouds,  coughed  up  by  the  Alps  to  thesouth,  roils  overhead,  re-  sponsible  for  the  slight,  sudden  chill  in  the  air.  Despite  the  clouds  a  large  crowd  is  gathering  on  the  square  be-  tween  the  St.  Peter  bell  tower  and  the  Neue  Rathaus.  It  must  be  approaching  the  hour,  when  the  knights  and  coopers  of  the  glockenspiel  spin  through  their  ringing  dance  for  thebattery  oftourist  cameras  below.  &quot;Another  one  not  afraid  of  a  few  stairs!&quot;  'The  old  woman  sitting  in  the  tower  entrance  accepts  Frank's  five-  mark  piece  and  pushes  his  change  across  the  countertop  with  the  back  of  her  hand.  &quot;A  crowd  today,&quot;  she  says,  with  a  smile  and  a  bob  of  her  hairy  chin,  as  Frank  moves  quickly  past  her  into  the  socket  of  moist  gloom.  He  takes  the  steep  stone  steps  of  the  Old  St.  Peter  Church  tower  three  at  a  time.  By  the  time  he  reaches  the  grid  of  dusty  wooden  beams  that  support  the  bells,  three-quarters  of  the  way  up,  his  legs  are  burning  and  beginning  to  go  numb.  In  the  well  beneath  the  lastflight  of  stairs,  just  below  the  door  leading  out-  sideto  the  balcony,  he  comes  upon  a  fellow-climber.  The  way  the  man  sits,  hunched  up  against  the  wall,  his  knees  tucked  to  his  chin,  causes  Frank  to  hesitate.  &quot;Are  you  all  right?&quot;  he  asks,  first  in  German,  then  in  English.  He  is  about  to  try  French,  the  only  other  language  he  knows,  when  the  man  lifts  his  head  and  shows  Frank  a  small  face  red  and  shiny  with  sweat  or  tears.  &quot;Her  voice,&quot;  the  man  saysin  slow,  broken  English.  &quot;A  voice  from  the  angels!  What  has  her  flesh  to  do  with  beauty?  What  is  the  flesh  when  she  has  avoice  from  the  angels?&quot;  When  he  hears  the  man's  thick  Ital-  ian  accent,  Frank  feels  his  chest  tighten.  The  Diva's  husband  throws  up  his  hands  and  leans  to  the  side  so  Frank  can  leap  up  the  stairs  past  him.  &quot;She  doesnot  come  down,&quot;  he  sings  after  Frank.  &quot;She  does  not  come  down  this  way.&quot;  FRANK  sees  her  at  once,  on  the  other  sideof  the  bulbiform  copper  pinna-  cle  of  the  tower.  She  balances  on  a  sagging  balustrade,  white  and  trem-  bling,  like  an  enormous  rosebud  dollop  of  whipped  cream.  The  silk  dress  snaps  against  her  in  the  rising  wind,  and  Frank  notices  that  the  iron  railing  circling  the  platform  is  pearled  with  moisture  from  the  descending  clouds.  &quot;Wait,&quot;  he  says,  unable  to  move  either  toward  her  or  away.  They  are  alone.  He  has  no  idea  what  he  should  say  to  her-if  he  should  say  anything  at  all.  He  stands  and  stares  and  tries,  at  least,  to  organize  his  thoughts  and  alterna-  tives  in  a  rational  manner.  He  can  (a)  continue  to  stand  and  observe;that  is  why  he  is  here,  after  all;  he  has  his  briefcase  and  his  camera  with  him.  He  can  (b)  run  for  help-but,  really,  how  effectual,  one  way  or  another,  would  that  be?  Frank's  mental  structure  be-  gins  to  wobble,  and  he  forces  himself  to  concentrate.  He  can  (c)  try  to  comfort  her,  tell  her  that  her  problems  are  no  big  deal,  that  being  fat  is  just  not,  in  the  end,  News  of  the  World.  She  glances  blankly  at  Frank  and  then  looks  away  again.  In  many  ways  she  is  how  he  pictured  her-except  for  her  face.  Instead  of  an  obese,  pallid  mask  twisted  by  lunatic  despair,  her  face  appears  only  quietly  unhappy.  It  is  just  an  ordinary  face,  the  kind  that  Frank  sees  every  day,  a  face  with  pretty,  dark  eyes.  Still,  for  some  reason,  Frank  feels  his  heart  sink  with  sadness.  &quot;Qual  occhio  al  mondo  puo  star  di  paro,&quot;  he  calls  toher,  &quot;alPerdente  occhio  tuo  nero?&quot;  It  is  the  only  Italian  he  can  remember,  a  snatch  of  some     opera  heonce  reviewed  for  his  college  newspaper.  Puccini?  He  isn't  sure  what  the  line  means,  only  that  it  has  some-  thing  to  do  with  pretty,  dark  eyes.  He  used  to  sing  that  line  to  Anne  (who  has  pretty,  pale-green  eyes)  back  in  the  days  when  he  still  did  things  like  that,  when  he  wanted  to  be  romantic  and  take  her  to  bed.  She  always  laughed  and  clubbed  him  on  the  nose  with  a  rolled-up  magazine.  &quot;QuaeFocchio  al  mondo  pud  star  di  paro,&quot;  he  repeats,  softly,  &quot;all  ardente  occhio  tuo  nero?&quot;  For  a  moment  Frank  thinks  that  she  will  burst  into  tears.  She  lifts  her  thin  black  eyebrows  and  blinks.  For  the  first  time  she  seems  to  notice  Frank  and  the  wind,  sodden  with  drizzle,  that  blows  against  her.  Then  she  drops  her  chin  onto  her  collarbone  and  begins  to  laugh.  Across  the  square  the  bells  of  the  glockenspiel  ring,  and  the  appreciative  murmur  of  the  crowd  below  rises  to  fill  out  the  lower  register  of  the  song.  Through  it  all  comes  the  Diva's  beau-  tiful,  musical  laughter,  each  note  per-  fectly  rounded,  asarticulate  and  mel-  ancholy  as  her  face.  &quot;Oh,  damn,&quot;  Frank  says,  at  a  loss  for  a  way  to  stanch  this  flow  of  grief.  The  balcony  is  small,  and  he  knows  he  is  close  enough  to  reach  out  for  her,  grab  her  soft  quaking  shoulder  and  pull  her  down  to  safety.  As  before,  though,  he  can't  marshal  the  energy  to  move.  He  sighs  and  manages  to  back  up  to  the  support  of  the  tower's  copper-plated  onion  dome,  then  slides  down  onto  his  haunches.  Before  he  realizes  it  he  is  weeping,  gently  but  with  persistence.  It  is  more  a  slow  leak  than  a  blowout,  he  guesses,  but  it  is  beyond  his  ability  to  control.  The  copper  figurines  of  the  glocken-  spiel  clank  to  a  halt,  the  mechanical  rooster  in  its  cubbyhole  gives  a  final  crow,  and  the  last  peals  of  the  bells  fray  and  dwindle  into  the  clouds.  Frank  continues  to  weep,  even  after  the  Diva  stops  her  lovely  staccato  laughter  and  slips  from  the  bannister.  &quot;Raoul  Duke  is  dead,&quot;  Frank  explains  to  her  in  a  whisper  when  she  kneels  down  to  touch  his  arm."