 b"FOGEL,  a  man  over  sixty,  could  Fnot  remember  its  ever  happening  before-the  advent  of  daylight-  saving  time  clipping  an  hour  off  Easter.  Church  bells  rang  in  the  dark;  the  pious  would  be  scrambling  about  in  their  topcoats  and  hats,  turning  the  clocks  ahead.  All  day,  the  reluctantly  budding  earth  would  wear  its  crown  of  cloudy  firmament  a  bit  awry.  Easter  had  always  struck  Fogel  as  a  holiday  without  real  punch,  though  there  was,  among  the  more  vivid  of  his  childhood  memories,  a  magical  peep  into  a  big  sugar  egg;  it  had  been  at  his  aunt's  house,  in  [REDACTED],  where  the  houses  seemed  cleaner  than  in  New  Jersey,  the  people  wealthier,  the  daffo-  dils  a  brighter  yellow.  Inside  the  egg,  paper  silhouettes  spelled  outa  kind  of  landscape-a  thatch-roofed  cottage,  a  rabbit  wearing  a  vest,  a  fringe  of  purple  flowers,  a  receding  path  and  paper  mountains-bathed  in  an  unexpectedly  brilliant  light.  Where  had  the  light  come  from?  There  must  have  been  a  hole  in  the  egg  besides  the  one  he  peeped  into,  a  kind But,  generally,  the  festivity  that  should  attend  the  day  had  fallen  rather  flat:  quarrelsome  and  embarrassed  fam-  ily  church  attendances,  nobody  quite  satisfied  with  their  Easter  clothes;  mel-  ancholy  egg  hunts  in  some  muddy  back  yard,  the  smallest  child  confused  and  victimized;  headachy  brunches  where  the  champagne  punch  tasted  sour  and  conversation  lagged.  Perhaps  if  Fogel  had  not  been  led  to  live  north  of  Bos-  ton,  where  the  bulb  plants  poked  through  dead  lawns  like  consciously  brave  thoughts  and  even  forsythia  was  shy  of  blooming,  nature  might  have  encouraged  the  ostensible  mood  of  hope  and  beginning  again.  But  the  day  was  usually  raw,  and  today  was  no  exception-a  day  of  drizzle  and  chill,  only  an  hour  less  of  it.  Fogel  was  sixty-two,  and  felt  retire-  ment  drawing  closer.  In  the  daily  rub  he  discovered  all  sorts  of  fresh  reasons  for  irritation.  The  line  at  the  post  office  was  held  up  by  people  buying  money  orders,  and  the  line  at  the  grocery  store  by  people  buying  state  lottery  tickets.  It  seemed  to  him  sheer  willful  ob-  structionism.  Why  didn't  these  people  have  checking  accounts,  and  do  their  gambling  on  the  stock  market?  Driving  to  work,  when  he  did  not  take  the  commuter  train,  Fogel  resented  being  tailgated,  and  especially  by  young  drivers,  and  very  especially  by  young  men  in  sunglasses,  their  identity  further  shielded  by  tinted  windshields  and  newly  fashionable  opaque  side  windows.  One  morning,  thecar  behind  him,  a  low  scarlet  sports  model,  wore  a  kind  of  mask  or  muzzle  of  dark  vinyl  over  its  grille,  and  this  ultra-mod-  ern,  ultra-protective  touch  infuriated  him,  just  as  did  cardboard  sun  shields  in  parked  cars,  and  leather-ridged,  fingertipless  driving  gloves,  and  Fuzz-  busters  blatantly  fastened  above  dash-  boards,  and  bumper  stickers  declar-  ing  &quot;SHIT  HAPPENS&quot;  or  &quot;SUPPORT  WILDLIFE-THROW  A  PARTY.&quot;  The  vinyl-faced  car  was  frantic  to  pass,  and  nosed  toward  the  right  and,  finding  there  an  onrolling  eighteen-wheeler,  nosed  back  and  swerved  left,  into  a  lane  that  in  a  few  hundred  yards  terminated  in  a  blinking  yellow  arrow.  Fogel  pressed  on  the  accelerator,  to  keep  abreast  of  the  boy  and  hold  him  out  in  the  doomed  lane.  Fogel  smiled  behind  the  wheel,  picturing  the  other  car's  satisfying  crash  into  the  great  arrow-  the  raucous  grating  of  metal,  the  misty  explosion  of  glass,  and  himself  sailing  serenely  on  in  his  middle  lane.  But  the  boy,  getting  the  picture,  cut  in  so  sharply  that  Fogel  had  to  brake  or  hit  him;he  hit  the  brakes,  and  the  youth,  ful  driver,  steering  one-  handed,  held  up  the  mid-  dle  finger  of  the  other  hand  for  Fogel  tosee  as  the  red  car,  belching,  pulled  away.  If  Fogel's  stately  Vol-  vo  had  been  equipped  with  a  button  that  an-  nihilated  other  vehicles,  he  would  have  used  it  three  or  four  times  a  mile.  Almost  every  other  automobile  on  the  road  -those  that  passed  him,  those  so  slow  he  had  to  pass  them,  those  going  justhis  speed  and  hang-  ing  inhis  side  mirrors  like  pursuing  furie-  seemed  a  deliberate  af-  front,  restricting  his  " b" freedom  and  being  some-  how  pretentious  about  it.  What  was  the  point  of  that  sinister  Darth  Vader-like  mask  over  a  grille?  No  point,  just  pure  intimidation  and  pretension.  W  hich  were,  he  had  come  through  sixty  years  to  realize,  the  aim  of  almost  all  human  behavior.  IS  body's  accumu-  lating  failuresalso  angered  him.  His  eye-  lashes  kept  falling  into  his  eyes,  and  the  pres-  byopia  of  late  middle  age  prevented  him  from  see-  ing,  in  the  mirror,  his  own  eyes  well  enough  to  take  the  lashes  out.  A  tantalizing  refusal  offo-  cus,  like  the  pressure  of  water  that  keeps  us  from  seizing  a  tempting  shell  on  the  sandy  bottom  of  six  feet  of  crystalline  sea,  frustrated  him,  and  when  he  put  on  his  read-  ing  glasses  he  could  see  the  dark  curved  foreign  body  but  not  get  his  fingers  and  the  corner  of  a  handkerchief  in  behind  the  lenses  to  remove  it.  So  he  would  blink  and  grimace  and  curse  and  wish  he  had  a  young  wife;  his  wife's  vision  was  no  better  than  his  own,  and  dis-  missingly  she  said  things  like  &quot;It  will  work  its  way  out&quot;  or  &quot;Maybe  it  just  feels  like  an  eyelash.&quot;  His  mother,  he  could  not  help  but  remember,  could  roll  his  lid  on  a  Q-Tip  and  deftly  stab  away  a  fleck  of  dirt  agonizing  his  sensitive  cornea.  But  his  mother,  he  realized  now,  at  the  time  had  been  half  his  pres-  ent  age,  though  she  had  seemed  age-  less,  enormous,  and  omnipotent.  Flying  back  from  New  York  to  Bos-  ton  late  one  afternoon  this  past  winter,  he  had  sat  across  the  aisle  from  a  young  man  and  woman,  both  about  thirty,  who  evidently  had  not  known  each  other  before  taking  seats  side  by  side.  The  man  was  a  bit  beefy,  with  a  red-  dish-blond  mustache  and  thinning  pale  hair;  the  woman,  all  but  eclipsed  from  Fogel's  angle,  helda  large  cardboard  folder  and  seemed  to  be  in  a  state  of  some  excitement.  Her  hands,  gesturing  and  flickering  in  front  of  the  oval  air-  plane  window,  appeared  ringless  and   agitated.  Her  voice,  as  she  explained  herself-the  advertising  agency  she  was  taking  the  folder  to,  her  mixed  feelings  about  living  in  New  York,  her  roommate's  sayings  and  comical  atti-  tude  toward  life-did  a  penetrating  dance,  tireless  and  insistent,  though  her  voice  was  high  and  light.  Perhaps  she  was  less  than  thirty-just  starting  out,  testing  her  powers.  She  talked  incessantly  but,  as  it  were,  abashedly,  throwing  her  words  out  in  a  feathery  way,  as  if  to  soften  their  impact.  &quot;\xc2\xabYeahhh?&quot;  she  would  add,  nonsensi-  cally,  to  a  sentence,  and  she  put  on  a  soft  quick  giggle,a  captivating  titter,  a  kind  of  shimmer  of  shyness  in  which  she  wrapped  her  unrelenting  verbal  assault  upon  her  seatmate,  who  re-  sponded-how  could  he  not'-with  ever  more  murmurous  and  authorita-  tive  replies,  concerning  cities  and  work  and  all  other  areas  where  he  might  be  supposed  to  wield  male  expertise.  This  man's  chunky  pale  hands  began  to  ges-  ture,  to  chop  the  air;  he  pompously  crossed  and  recrossed  his  legs  and  preeningly  lifted  his  shoe,  rotating  the  tip;  his  voice  grew  gravelly  and  confid-  ing  as  the  feathery,  questioning,  gig-  gling,  excited  voice  of  the  other  assaulted  his  ear  and,  unintentionally,  Fogel's.  Fogel  had  been  talked  to,  long  ago,  by  a  woman  in  a  voice  exactly  like  this.  It  had  been  a  bath,  her  voice,  in  which  he  grew  weightless,  an  iridescent  bub-  bly  uplifting  in  which  floated  always  a  question,  the  lilting  teasing  female  question,  to  which  his  maleness,  clumsy  and  slow  to  comprehend  though  it  was,  was  the  only  answer.  He  and  this  woman,  Fogel  further  remembered,  had  come  to  an  unhappy  end,  which  had  seemed  tragic  and  hard  to  swallow  at  the  time  but  which  now,  tothis  elderly  man  sitting  above  the  clouds  while  the  engines  droned  and  the  stewardesses  struggled  to  distribute  drinks  and  the  girl  across  the  aisle  deliciously  prattled  and  her  naked  hands  flickered  against  the  deepening  darkness  of  the  airplane  window,  ap-  peared  merely  inevitable,  since  all  things  end.  One  small  side  effect  still  rankled:  their  affair  ended  in  the  springtime,  and  his  former  mistress  de-  clined  to  invite  him  and  his  family  to  an  Easter-egg  hunt  she  and  her  hus-  band  annually  gave.  His  children's  feelings  were  hurt,  and  for  consolation  they  were  taken  out,  after  church,  to  " b"eat  at  the  local  pancake  house.  Heaps  of  pancakes,  Fogel  remembered-buck-  wheat,  buttermilk,  blueberry-that  seemed,  soaked  in  syrup,  almost  un-  swallowably  sweet.  And  yet,  when  the  plane  landed  and  the  scramble  to  retrieve  things  from  the  overhead  rack  took  over,  Fogel  forgot  to  look,  as  he  had  been  intending,  at  the  young  woman,  to  check  out  her  height,  the  breadth  of  her  hips,  her  face  full  on,  her  lovely  long  lively  hands,  to  see  if  they  were  truly  ringless.  While  his  attention  was  elsewhere  or  nowhere  she  must  have  stood  and  brushed  past  him  and  out  of  his  life  forever.  She  remained  with  him  only  as  a  voice,  the  voice  of  flirtation.  FOGEL\xe2\x80\x99S  absent-mindedness  was  be-  coming  alarming.  On  this  strangely  short  Easter,  as  bells  prodded  the  air  in  the  town  below  the  hill  where  he  lived,  he  walked  tohis  mailbox  to  retrieve  the  ponderous  and  slippery  morning  paper,  and  his  old  gray-muzzled  dog,  a  Labrador  retriever,  flushed  the  six  or  so  mourning  doves  that  gathered  on  a  warm  open  slope,  amid  scrub  brush,  above  the  curving  driveway.  Every  weekend  morning,  Saturday  and  Sunday,  this  happened,  the  dog  pon-  derously  charging  forward  and  the  mourning  doves  thrashing  into  the  air  with  an  abrupt  whistle  and  merged  beating  of  wings,  and  yet  Fogel  always  forgot  it  would  happen,  and  was  star-  tled  so  that  his  heart  raced,  his  blood  leaping  like  another  dove.  His  heart  would  keep  thumping  as  he  walked  back  up  the  hill  with  the  many-sec-  tioned,  pretentious  Sunday  newspaper  in  his  arms.  The  thumping  felt  dan-  gerous,  and  he  felt  endangered  when  his  wife,  at  breakfast,  proposed  that  he  help  her  with  the  spring  raking.  &quot;We  were  unforgivably  sloppy  last  fall,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;We  left  leaves  under  all  the  bushes  and  over  by  the  rocks,  and  now  they'll  smother  the  new  growth  if  we  don't  dig  them  out.  You  can't  trust  the  lawn  boys  to  do  it;  it  was  their  stupid  useless  blower  that  put  the  leaves  there  in  the  first  place.&quot;  Unlike  those  of  the  girl  on  the  plane,  this  woman's  powers  were  long  estab-  lished,  and  she  felt  no  need  to  test  them.  She  moved  back  and  forth  be-  tween  kitchen  island  and  sink,  between  sink  and  refrigerator  and  stove,  with  an  insatiable  silver-haired  energy.  As Fogel  sat  at  the  breakfast  table  puzzling  over  the  paper,  trying  to  remem-  ber  which  sections  he  had  already  read,  he  felt  pushed  from  behind,  tailgated.  How  did  she  know  he  hadn't,  senti-  mentally,  decided  to  go  to  church?  &quot;I'll  never  forget,&quot;  she  went  on,  &quot;the  year  we  went  to  [REDACTED]  and  didn't  get  the  leaves  off  the  front  beds  until  May  and  the  poor  tulips  had  all  grown  inches  under  the  mulch-horrible,  these  pa-  thetic  white  snaky  stems  growing  side-  ways!  Once  the  sun  got  to  them  they  straightened  up  but  all  summer  until  they  died  back  were  shaped  like  the  letter  'L.'  They  all  had  elbows!&quot;  This  monologue,  he  recognized,  was  a  ma-  tured  version,  hardened  into  jagged  edges  and  points  that  prodded  and  hurt,  of  the  young  woman's  feathery,  im-  mersing  discourse  across  the  airplane  aisle-a  version  of  that  female  insis-  tence  upon  getting  male  attention,  a  force  as  irresistible  as  the  ability  of  freezing  water  to  split  rocks.  &quot;I'm  trying  to  read  the  paper,&quot;  Fogel  pointed  out.  &quot;I  think  it's  grotesque,  it's  absolutely  doddery,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;the  way  you've  taken  to  dawdling  over  the  paper,  even the  real-estate  section,  even  the  cook-  ing  tips!  It's  a  bad  habit  you've  gotten  into  from  killing  time  on  the  train.  Nobody  expects  you  to  read  everything,  they  just  want  you  to  glance  at  the  ads.&quot;  &quot;Isn't  it  rather  cold  and  dismal  out-  doors?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;&quot;No  more  so  than  it  ever  is  this  time  of  year.  The  longer  we  work,  the  warmer  it  will  get.  If  you  think  about  it,  the  sun  this  time  of  year's  as  strong  as  an  August  sun,  though  it  doesn't  feel  that  way.  Don't  be  a  doddery  dawdler.  Come  on-one  hour  of  good  stiff  yard  work  and  then  the  Allisons'  brunch  andyou  can  watch  the  football  play-  offs.&quot;  &quot;They're  over.&quot;  &quot;Are  they  honestly?  I  thought  they  were  endless.&quot;  &quot;'You  were  confused  by  the  Hula  Bowl.  It's  hockey  and  basketball  now.&quot;  &quot;How  can  you  tell?  It's  all  just  ugly  brutes  bashing  into  each  other.  It's  horrible,  the  way  television  has  turned  violence  into  a  joke.&quot;  She  had  suddenly  left  the  kitchen.  Meekly,  draggingly,  Fogel  followed.  Pulling  moist  compacted  oak  leaves  from  underneath  the  forsythia  and  [I\xc2\xae]  Lilacs,  careful  not  to  let  a  budding  twig  poke  his  eye,  he  was  reminded  of  an  Easter-egg  hunt,  and  inhis  reverie,  while  his  wife  swooped  back  and  forth  with  sheets  of  last  year's  leaves  and  bundles  of  brisk  directives,  his  brood-  ing  mind  warmed  his  old  indignation  at  not  having  been  invited  to  that  party  given  by  his  recently  forsaken  inamo-  " b"rata.  She  could  have  trusted  him.  He  would  have  stood  off  to  one  side  and  been  distant  and  discreet  while  his  chil-  dren  hunted  and  his  wife  mixed  it  up  socially.  Insult  was  added  to  injury  when,  some  months  later,  at  a  third  family's  house,  he  was  shown  home  movies  of  the  day-the  scampering  children,  theirfaces  in  closeup  smeared  with  chocolate  and  anxiety  about  get-  ting  their  share;  the  men,  in  business  suits  and  pastel  shirts,  standing  on  the  brown  lawn  in  little  conferences  of  three  or  four,  holding  wineglasses  and  pat\xc3\xa9-laden  crackers;  and  the  women,  all  in  miniskirts  in  that  era,  swooping  about  after  their  children  with  brown  paper  bags  and  discarded  sweaters.  It  was  a  familiar  scene,  year  after  year,  except  that  this  year  he  was  not  in  it;  no  matter  how  the  camera  panned  and  skidded  from  group  to  group,  Fogel  was  invisible.  His  former  mistress  wore  a  glistening  purple  dress,  he  seemed  to  remember,  that  just  barely  covered  her  bustling  hindquarters,  and  she  clowned  for  the  camera  when  it  came  her  way,  her  lips  moving  to  frame  a  gay  feathery  voice  that  was  inaudible.  How  tenacious,  really,  forsythia  is  of  last  fall's  leaves!  And  the  English  ivy  was  worse  yet,  more  clingy  and  snaggy.  The  teeth  of  Fogel's  little  bamboo  bush  rake  kept  snapping  in  the  struggle  with  hostile  vegetation.  One  of  his  fantasies  was  a  kind  of  ray  gun  that,  directed  at  a  plant  or  tree,  would  not  only  kill  it  but  instantly  vaporize  it  into  a  fine,  fertilizing  ash.  Agricultural  labor,  this  endless  plucking  of  weeds  and  replowing  of  fields,  had  always  seemed  to  him  the  essence  of  futility;  after  sixty  years  he  was  coming  to  realize  that  all  work,  legal  or  medical  or,  like  his  own,  financial,  was  also  a  Sisyphean  matter  of  recycling,  of  push-  ing  inert  and  thankless  matter  back  and  forth,  of  turning  over  (in  his  case)  the  compost  of  corporate  debt.  All  labor  was  tied  to  human  life,  which  was  as  pointless  as  that  of  any  new  little  green  weed  already  eagerly  sprouting  beneath  the  damp-blackened  leaves.  HE  Allisons'  brunch  was  also  pointless-the  same  dozen  aging  couples,  with  three  widows  and  a  bach-  elor,  that  they  saw  every  weekend.  Throughout  the  gathering  Fogel  kept  trying  to  glimpse,  out  of  the  corners  of  his  eyes,  the  shoulders  of  his  navy-blue  blazer,  and  brushing  at  the  gray  hairs  that  kept  appearing  there;  he  was  shed-  ding.  To  get  himself  through  a  strenu-  ous  conversation  on  the  future  of  yachting  after  this  winter's  debacle  in  San  Diego,  he  accepted  a  second  Bloody  Mary.  Then  he  prudently  switched  to  the  faintly  sour,  platinum-  colored  champagne  punch.  One  widow  told  him  he  should  take  his  cholesterol  count  very  seriously;  if  her  husband  had,  she  wouldn't  be  a  widow  now.  Tears  suddenly  troubled  her  eyes,  with  their  cobalt-blue  contact  lenses.  An-  other  woman,  in  a  purplish  dress,  came  up  to  Fogel  and  pressed  her  wrinkled  face  upward  toward  him  as  if  straining  tosee  through  a  besmirched  skylight,  and  launched  her  voice  into  an  insis-  tent  sweet  singsong.  He  regretted  that  no  movie  camera-a  video  camera  was  what  they  used  now,  with  a  built-in  soundtrack-was  at  work  recording  the  fact  that  he  was  here,  at  this  party:  that  he  had  been  invited.  He  and  his  wife  left  at  two-thirty,  which  felt  nearer  noon  than  that,  Because  the  clocks  had  been  jumped  ahead,  the  day  kept  feeling  in  retard  of  where  it  actu-  ally  was.  It  was  later  than  he  thought.  The  cold  drizzle  intensified,  and  dis-  couraged  returning  to  the  yard  work;  the  bursitis  in  his  shoulders  ached  from  all  that  reaching  with  the  rake.  He  found  some  golf  on  television.  The  tour  had  moved  east  from  the  desert  events,  with  lavender  mountains  in  the  background  and  emerald  fairways  im-  posed  upon  cactus  terrain  and  with  an-  cient  [REDACTED]  comedians  as  tour-  nament  sponsors,  to  courses  in  the  American  [REDACTED],  with  trees  in  tender  first  leaf  and  azaleas  in  lurid  bloom.  Young  blond  men  putted,  over  and  over,  for  birdies.  A  tremendous  drows-  iness  seized  Fogel  as  he  watched  with-  in  his  easy  chair.  The  fresh  air  and  yard  work,  the  gin  and  tomato  juice,  the  champagne  and  the  effort  to  be  sociable  all  added  up  toa  crushing  ac-  cumulation.  Stealthily,  avoiding  his  " b"Own bedroom,  where  his  wife  could  be  heard  chattering  on  the  telephone  to  one  of  her  many  woman  friends,  he  took  a  section  of  the  newspaper  that  perhaps  he  had  not  already  read  and  lay  down  on  the  bed  in  their  younger  son's  old  room.  Posters  of  European  cars  and  American  rock  stars  were  still  on  the  walls,  though  the  boy  had  left  for  col-  lege  fifteen  years  ago.  A  pipe  rattled  as  R.  lee  fresh  steam  hit  condensation  in  an  iron  elbow;  Fogel  had  become  sensitive  to  his  house,  identifying  with  its  creaks,  its  corners  of  decay,  its  irrevers-  ible  expenditures  of  energy.  He  tried  to  study  the  section  of  newspaper,  the  financial  section.  &quot;THE  DEFICIT  PROBLEM-IS  IT  ALL  IN  OUR  MINDS?&quot;  one  headline  read.  Interest  rates,  re-  structuring,  soft  markets,  debt,  debt  ...  He  rested  the  paper  on  the  floor  beside  his  son's  narrow  bed  and  fell  headlong  asleep,  while  drizzle  flecked  the  windowpanes  and  steam  ticked  in  the  radiators.  His  dreams  possessed  that  hyperreality  which  signifies  a  dip  to-  ward  oblivion  so  deep  as  to  be  perilous;  they  took  place  in  the  middle  distance  of  his  past,  shuttling  from  one  self  to  another  with  marvellous  speed  and  insouciance  as  electricity  wandered  through  his  brain,  activating  now  one  set  of  memory  cells  and  now  another.  A  wash  of  buried  emotion  rounded  these  phantoms  into  light  and  shadow,  and  called  up  tears  and  outcriesof  indignation  from  Fogel's  phantom  self;  he  presided  above  the  busy  lit  stage  of  his  subconscious  as  prompter  and  play-  wright,  audience  and  deus  ex  machina  as  well  as  hero.  His  parents  hove  into  view-his  father  a  coarse  man,  his  mother  virginal  in  her  simplicity,  her  narrow  passion  to  defend  as  if  sacred  the  little  space  her  family  had  borrowed  from  the  world.  In  their  imagined  vicinity,  Fogel  became  heavy  in  every  cell,  so  dense  that  he  fell  through  into  wakefulness,  though  the  dream  world  tried  to  cling  to  his  warm  body,  amid  that  unnatural  ache  of  beginning  again.  The  weight,  the  atrocious  weight,  of  coming  again  to  life.  His  mouth  felt  parched,  and  a  drib-  ble  from  the  downward  corner  of  his  lips  had  moistened  the  pillow.  The  air  of  the  room  was  dusky.  He  did  not  at  first  know  what  room  it  was,  of  the  many  his  life  had  occupied.  A  fur  of  shadow  had  grown  on  every  surface,  even  that  of  the  sleek  posters.  The  hour  was  indeterminate;  yet  Fogel  knew,  instantly,  that  the  day  was  still  Easter.  How  long  had  he  slept,  so  solidly?  Naps  were  not  like  him.  He  listened  for  his  wife's  voice  from  their  bedroom  and  heard  nothing.  He  was  frightened.  He  lay  half  curled  up  on  the  narrow  bed  like  a  fetus  that  has  lost  flexibility.  A  curve  of  terror  chilled  his  abdomen,  silvery  and  sore.  Had  he  been  the  phan-  tom  self  of  his  dreams,  he  would  have  cried  out  aloud  with  the  sensation.  His  eyes  checked  the  items  of  the  room-  shiny  posters,  vacant  fireplace,  light  plug,  bookcase  of  abandoned  school-  books,  rack  ofobsolete  cassettes,  stolen  &quot;No  Parking&quot;  sign,  stuffed  rabbit  wearing  a  vest-one  by  one.  Every-  thing  seemed  still  here,  yet  something  was  immensely  missing. "