 b"IT  was  my  first  day.  I  had  come  the  I  night  before,  a  gray-black  and  cold  night  before-as  it  was  expected  to  be  in  the  middle  of  January,  though  I  didn't  know  that  at  the  time-and  I  could  not  see  anything  clearly  on  the  way  in  from  the  airport,  even  though  there  were  lights  everywhere.  As  we  drove  along,  someone  would  single  out  to  me  a  famous  building,  an  important  street,  a  park,  a  bridge  that  when  built  was  thought  to  bea  spectacle.  In  a  daydream  I  used  to  have,  all  these  places  were  points  of  happiness  to  me;  all  these  places  were  lifeboats  to  my  small  drowning  soul,  for  I  would  imagine  myself  entering  and  leaving  them,  and  just  that-entering  and  leaving  over  and  over  again-would  see  me  through  a  bad  feeling  I  did  not  have  a  name  for.I  only  knew  it  felt  a  little  like  sadness.  Now  that  I  saw  these  places,  they  looked  ordinary,  dirty,  worn  down  by  so  many  people  entering  and  leaving  them  in  real  life,  and  it  occurred  to  me  that  I  could  not  be  the  only  person  in  the  world  for  whom  they  were  a  fixture  of  fantasy.  It  was  not  my  first  bout  with  the  disappoint-  ment  of  reality  and  it  would  not  be  my  last.  The  undergarments  that  I  wore  were  all  new,  bought  for  my  journey,  and  as  I  sat  in  the  car,  twisting  this  way  and  that  to  get  a  good  view  of  the  sights  before  me,  I  was  reminded  of  how  uncomfortable  the  new  can  make  you  feel.  I  got  into  an  elevator,  something  I  had  never  done  before,  and  then  I  was  in  an  apartment  and  seated  at  a  table,  eating  food  just  taken  from  a  refrigera-  tor.  In  Antigua,  where  I  came  from,  I  had  always  lived  in  ahouse,  and  my  house  did  not  have  a  refrigerator  in  it.  Everything  I  was  experiencing-the  ride  in  the  elevator,  being  in  an  apart-  ment,  eating  day-old  food  that  had  been  stored  in  a  refrigerator-was  such  a  good  idea  that  I  could  imagine  I  would  grow  used  to  it  and  like  it  very  much,  but  at  first  it  was  all  so  new  that  I  had  to  smile  with  my  mouth  turned  down  at  the  corners.  I  slept  soundly  that  night,  but  it  wasn't  because  I  was  happy  and  comfortable-quite  the  op-  posite;  it  was  because  I  didn't  want  to  take  in  anything  else.  That  morning,  the  morning  of  my  first  day,  the  morning  that  followed  my  first  night,  was  a  sunny  morning.  It  was  not  the  sort  of  bright  sun-yellow  making  everything  curl  at  the  edges,  almost  in  fright,  that  I  was  used  to,  but  a  pale-yellow  sun,  as  if  the  sun  had  grown  weak  from  trying  too  hard  to  shine;  but  still  it  was  sunny,  and  that  was  nice  and  made  me  miss  my  home  less.  And  so,  seeing  the  sun,  I  got  up  and  put  on  a  dress,  a  gay  dress  made  out  of  madras  cloth-the  same  sort  of  dress  that  I  would  wear  if  I  were  at  home  and  setting  out  for  a  day  in  the  country.  It  was  all  wrong.  The  sun  was  shining  but  the  air  was  cold.  It  was  the  middle  of  January,  after  all.  But  I  did  not  know  that  the  sun  could  shine  and  the  air  remain  cold;  no  one  had  ever  told  me.  What  a  feeling  that  was!  How  can  I  explain?  Something  I  had  always  known-the  way  I  knew  my  skin  was  the  color  brown  of  a  nut  rubbed  repeat-  edly  with  a  soft  cloth,  or  the  way  I  knew  my  own  name-something  I  took  completely  for  granted,  &quot;the  sun  is  shining,  the  air  is  warm,&quot;  was  not  so.  I  was  no  longer  in  a  tropical  zone,  and  this  realization  now  entered  my  life  like  a  flow  of  water  dividing  for-  merly  dry  and  solid  ground,  creating  two  banks,  one  of  which  was  my  past-  so  familiar  and  predictable  that  even  my  unhappiness  then  made  me  happy  now  just  to  think  of  it--the  other  my  future,  a  gray  blank,  an  overcast  sea-  scape  on  which  rain  was  falling  and  no  boats  were  in  sight.  I  was  no  longer  in  a  tropical  zone  and  I  felt  cold  inside  and  out,  the  first  time  such  a  sensation  had  come  over  me.  N  books  I  had  read-from  time  to  time,  when  the  plot  called  for  it-  someone  would  suffer  from  homesick-  ness.  A  person  would  leave  a  not  very  nice  situation  and  go  somewhere  else,  somewhere  a  lot  better,  and  then  long  to  go  back  where  it  was  not  very  nice.  How  impatient  I  would  become  with  such  a  person,  for  I  would  feel  that  I  was  in  a  not  very  nice  situation  my-  self,  and  how  I  wanted  to  go  some-  where  else.  But  now  I,  too,  felt  that  I  wanted  to  be  back  where  I  came  from.  I  understood  it,  I  knew  where  I  stood  there.  If  I  had  had  to  draw  a  picture  of  my  future  then,  it  would  have  been  alarge  gray  patch  surrounded  by  black,  blacker,  blackest.  What  a  surprise  this  was  to  me,  that  I  longed  to  be  back  in  the  placethat  I  came  from,  that  I  longed  to  sleep  in  a  bed  I  had  outgrown,  that  I  longed  to  be  with  people  whose  smallest,  most  natu-  ral  gesture  would  call  up  in  me  such  a  rage  that  I  longed  tosee  them  all  dead  at  my  feet.  Oh,  I  had  imagined  that  with  my  one  swift  act-leaving  home  and  coming  to  this  new  place-I  could  leave  behind  me,  as  if  it  were  an  old  garment  never  to  be  worn  again,  my  sad  thoughts,  my  sad  feelings,  and  my  discontent  with  life  in  general  as  it  presented  itself  to  me.  In  the  past,  the  thought  of  being  in  my  present  situa-  tion  had  been  a  comfort,  but  now  I  did  not  even  have  this  to  look  forward  to,  and  so  I  lay  down  on  my  bed  and  dreamt  that  I  was  eating  a  bow!  of  pink  mullet  and  green  figs  cooked  in  coconut  milk,  and  it  had  been  cookedby  my  grandmother,  which  was  why  the  taste  of  it  pleased  me  so,  for  she  was  the  person  I  liked  best  in  all  the  world  and  those  were  the  things  I  liked  bestto  eat  also.  The  room  in  which  I  lay  was  a  small  room  just  off  the  kitchen-the  maid's  room.  I  was  used  to  a  small  room,  but  this  was  a  different  sort  of  small  room.  The  ceiling  was  very  high  and  the  walls  went  all  the  way  up  to  the  ceil-  ing,  enclosing  the  room  like  a  box  -a  box  in  which  cargo  travelling  a  long  way  should  be  shipped.  But  I  was  not  cargo.  I  was  only  an  unhappy  young  woman  living  in  a  maid's  room,  and  I  was  not  even  the  maid.  I  was  the  young  girl  who  watches  over  the  children  and  goes  to  school  at  night.  How  nice  everyone  was  to  me,  though,  saying  that  I  shouldregard  them  as  my  family  and  make  myself  at  home.  I  believed  them  to  be  sincere,  for  I  knew  that  such  a  thing  would  not  be  said  to  a  member  of  their  real  family.  After  all,  aren't  family  the  people  who  become  the  mill-  stone  around  your  life's  neck?  On  the  last  day  I  spent  at  home,  my  cousin-a  girl  I  had  known  all  my  life,  an  un-  pleasant  person  even  before  her  parents  forced  her  to  become  a  Seventh-Day  Adventist-made  a  farewell  present  to  me  of  her  own  Bible,  and  with  it  she  made  a  little  speech  about  God  and  goodness  and  blessings.  Now  it  sat  before  me  on  a  dresser,  and  I  remem-  " b"bered  how  when  we  were  children  we  would  sit  un-  der  my  house  and  terrify  and  torment  each  other  by  reading  out  loud  passages  from  the  Book  of  Reve-  lations,  and  I  wondered  if  ever  in  my  whole  life  a  day  would  go  by  when  these  people  I  had  left  behind,  my  own  family,  would  not  appear  before  me  in  one  way  or  another.  There  was  also  a  small  radio  on  this  dresser,  and  I  had  turned  it  on.  At  that  moment,  almost  as  if  to  sum  up  how  I  was  feeling,  a  song  came  on  some  of  the  words  of  which  were  &quot;Put  yourself  in  my  place,  if  only  for  a  day;  see  if  you  can  stand  the  awful  emptiness  inside.&quot;  I  sang  these  words  to  myself  over  and  over,  as  if  they  were  a  lullaby,  and  I  fell  asleep  again.  This  time  I  dreamt  that  I  was  holding  in  my  hands  one  of  my  old  cotton-flannel  nightgowns,  and  it  was  printed  with  beautiful  scenes  of  children  playing  with  Christmas-  tree  decorations.  The  scenes  printed  on  my  nightgown  were  so  real  that  I  could  actually  hear  the  children  laugh-  ing.  I  felt  compelled  to  know  where  this  nightgown  came  from,  and  I  start-  ed  to  examine  it  furiously,  looking  for  the  label.  I  found  it  just  where  a  label  usually  is,  in  the  back,  and  it  read  &quot;Made  in  Australia.&quot;  I  was  awakened  from  this  dream  by  the  actual  maid,  a  woman  who  had  let  me  know  right  away,  on  meeting  me,  that  she  did  not  like  me,  and  gave  as  her  reason  the  way  I  talked.  I  thought  it  was  because  of  something  else,  but  I  did  not  know  what.  As  I  opened  my  eyes,  the  word  &quot;Australia&quot;  stood  between  our  faces,  and  I  remembered  then  that  Australia  was  settled  as  a  prison  for  bad  people,  people  so  bad  that  they  couldn't  beput  in  a  prison  in  their  own  country.  MY  waking  hours  soon  took  on  a  routine.  I  walked  four  small  girls  to  their  school,  and  when  they  returned  at  midday  I  gave  them  a  lunch  of  soup  from  a  tin,  and  sandwiches.  In  the  afternoon,  I  read  to  them  and  played  with  them.  When  they  were  away,  I  studied  my  books,  and  at  night  I  went  to  school.  I  was  unhappy.  I   looked  at  a  map.  The  Atlantic  Ocean  stood  between  me  and  the  place  I  came  from,  but  would  it  have  made  a  differ-  ence  ifit  had  been  a  teacup  of  water?  I  could  not  go  back.  Outside,  always  it  was  cold,  and  everyone  said  that  it  was  the  coldest  winter  they  had  ever  experienced;  but  the  way  they  said  it  made  me  think  they  said  this  every  time  winter  came  around.  And  I  couldn't  blame  them  for  not  really  remembering  each  year  how  unpleasant,  how  unfriendly  winter  weather  could  be.  The  trees  with  their  bare,  still  limbs  looked  dead,  and  as  if  someone  had  just  placed  them  there  and  planned  to  come  back  and  get  them  later;  all  the  windows  of  the  houses  were  shut  tight,  the  way  windows  are  shut  up  when  a  house  will  be  empty  for  a  long  time;  when  people  walked  on  the  streets  they  did  it  quickly,  as  if  they  were  doing  something  behind  some-  one's  back,  as  if  they  didn't  want  to  draw  attention  to  themselves,  as  if  be-  ing  out  in  the  cold  too  long  would  cause  them  to  dissolve.  How  I  longed  to  see  someone  lingering  on  a  corner,  trying  to  draw  my  attention  to  him,  trying  to  engage  me  in  conversation,  someone  complaining  to  himself  in  a  voice  I  could  overhear  about  a  god  whose  love  and  mercy  fell  on  the  just  and  the  unjust.  I  wrote  home  to  say  how  lovely  everything  was,  and  I  used  flourishing  words  and  phrases,  as  if  I  were  living  life  in  agreeting  card-the  kind  that  has  a  satin  ribbon  on  it,  and  quilted  hearts  and  roses,  and  is  expected  to  be  so  precious  to  the  person  receiving  it  that  the  manufacturer  has  placed  a  leaf  of  plastic  on  the  front  to  protect  it,  Everyone  I  wrote  to  said  how  nice  it  was  to  hear  from  me,  how  nice  it  was  to  know  that  I  was  doing  well,  that  I  was  very  much  missed,  and  that  they  couldn't  wait  until  the  day  came  when  I  returned.  NE  day  the  maid  who  said  she  did  not  like  me  because  of  the  way  I  talked  told  me  that  she  was  sure  I  could  not  dance.  She  said  that  I  spoke  like  a  nun,  I  walked  like  one  also,  and  that  everything  about  me  was  so  pious  it  made  her  feel  at  once  sick  to  her  stom-  ach  and  sick  with  pity  just  to  look  at  me.  And  so,  perhaps  giving  way  to  the  latter  feeling,  she  said  that  we  should  dance,  even  though  she  was  quite  sure  I  didn't  know  how.  There  was  a  little  portable  record-player  in  my  room,  the  kind  that  when  closed  up  looked  like  a  ladies'  vanity  case,  and  she  put  on  a  record  she  had  bought  earlier  thatday.  It  was  a  song  that  was  very  popular  at  the  time-three  girls,  not  older  than  I  was,  singing  in  harmony  and  in  a  very  insincere  and  artificial  way  about  love  and  so  on.  It  was  very  beautiful  all  the  same,  and  it  was  beautiful  because  it  " b" was  so  insincere  and  artificial.  She  en-  joyed  this  song,  singing  at  the  top  of  her  voice,  and  she  was  a  wonderful  dancer-it  amazed  me  to  see  the  way  in  which  she  moved.  I  could  not  join  her  and  I  told  her  why:  the  melodies  of  her  song  were  so  shallow,  and  the  words,  to  me,  were  meaningless.  From  her  face,  I  could  see  she  had  only  one  feeling  about  me:  how  sick  to  her  stom-  ach  I  made  her.  And  so  I  said  that  I  knew  songs,  too,  and  I  burst  into  a  calypso  about  a  girl  who  ran  away  to  Port-au-Spain,  [REDACTED],  and  had  a  good  time,  with  no  regrets.  HE  household  in  which  I  lived  was  made  up  of  a  husband,  a  wife,  and  the  four  girl  children.  The  hus-  band  and  wife  looked  alike  and  their  four  children  looked  just  like  them.  In  photographs  of  themselves,  which  they  placed  all  over  the  house,  their  six  yellow-haired  heads  of  various  sizes  were  bunched  as  if  they  were  a  bouquet  of  flowers  tied  together  by  an  unseen  string.  In  the  pictures,  they  smiled  out  at  the  world,  giving  the  impression  that  they  found  everything  in  it  un-  bearably  wonderful.  And  it  was  not  a  farce,  their  smiles.  From  wherever  they  had  gone,  and  they  seemed  to  have  been  all  over  the  world,  they  brought  back  some  tiny  memento,  and  they  could  each  recite  its  history  from  its  very  beginning.  Even  when  a  little  rain  fell,  they  would  admire  the  way  it  streaked  through  the  blank  air.  At  dinner,  when  we  sat  down  at  the  table-and  did  not  have  to  say  grace  (such  a  relief;  as  if  they  believed  in  a  God  that  did  not  have  to  be  thanked  every  time  you  turned  around)-they  said  such  nice  things  to  each  other,  and  the  children  were  so  happy.  They  would  spill  their  food,  or  not  eat  any  of  it  at  all,  or  make  up  rhymes  about  it  that  would  end  with  the  words  &quot;smelt  bad.&quot;  How  they  made  me  laugh,  and  I  wondered  what  sort  of  parents  I  must  have  had,  for  even  to  think  of  such  words  in  their  presence  I  would  have  been  scolded  severely,  and  I  vowed  that  if  I  ever  had  children  I  would  make  sure  that  the  first  words  out  of  their  mouths  were  bad  ones.  IT  was  at  dinner  one  night  not  long  after  I  began  tolive  with  them  that  they  began  to  call  me  the  Visitor.  They  said  I  seemed  not  to  be  a  part  of  things,  as  if  I  didn't  live  in  their  house  with  them,  as  if  they  weren't  like  a  family  to  me,  as  if  I  were  just  passing  through,  just  saying  one  long  Hallo!,  and  soon  would  be  saying  a  quick  Goodbye!  So  long!  It  was  very  nice!  For  look  at  the  way  I  looked  at  them  eating,  Lewis  said.  Had  I  never  seen  anyone  put  a  forkful  of  French-cut  green  beans  in  his  mouth  before?  This  made  Mariah  laugh,  but  almost  everything  Lewis  said  made  Mariah  happy,  and  so  she  would  laugh.  When  I  didn't  laugh  also,  Lewis  said,  Poor  Visitor,  poor  Visitor,  over  and  over,  a  sympathetic  tone  to  his  voice,  and  then  he  told  me  a  story  about  an  uncle  he  had  who  had  gone  to  [REDACTED]  and  raised  monkeys,  and  of  how  after  a  while  the  uncle  loved  monkeys  so  much  and  was  so  used  to  being  around  them  that  he  found  actual  human  beings  hard  to  take.  He  had  told  me  this  story  about  his  uncle  before,  and  while  he  was  telling  it  to  me  this  time  I  was  remem-  bering  a  dream  I  hadhad  about  them:  Lewis  was  chasing  me  around  the  house.  I  wasn't  wearing  any  clothes.  The  ground  on  which  I  was  running  was  yellow,  as  ifit  had  been  paved  with  cornmeal.  Lewis  was  chasing  me  around  and  around  the  house,  and  though  he  came  close  he  could  never  catch  up  with  me.  Mariah  stood  at  the  open  windows  saying,  Catch  her,  Lewis,  catch  her.  Eventually  I  fell  down  a  hole,  at  the  bottom  of  which  were  some  silver  and  blue  snakes.  When  Lewis  finished  telling  his  story,  I  told  them  my  dream.  When  I  finished,  they  both  fell  silent.  Then  they  looked  at  me  and  Mariah  cleared  her  throat,  but  it  was  obvious  from  the  way  she  did  it  that  her  throatdid  not  need  clearing  at  all.  Their  two  yellow  heads  swam  toward  each  other  and,  in  unison,  bobbed  up  and  down.  Lewis  made  a  clucking  noise,  then  said,  Poor,  poor  Visitor.  And  Mariah  said,  Dr.  Freud  for  Visitor.  Then  they  laughed  in  a  soft,  kind  way.  I  had  meant  by  telling  them  my  dream  that  I  had  taken  them  in,  because  only  people  who  were  very  important  to  me  had  ever  shown  up  in  my  dreams,  and  I  could  see  that  they  already  understood  that. "