 b"FROM  the  first,  Mrs.  Drysdale  always  told  her  husband  that  Maria  was  really  very  good  with  guacamole  and  with  children.  But  as  the  girls  grew  taller,  their  eye-level  glances  made  her  shy,  and  she  became  much  less  accommodating.  Maria  was  erect  and  strong,  but  it  was  not  easy  for  her  to  empty  a  shopping  cartin  the  market.  She  was  a  short  slab  of  a  woman,  straight  up  and  down  from  all  sides,  so  upright  she  might  be  driven  into  the  ground  like  a  stake.  Her  stocky  legs  spread  like  a  sawhorse  when  she  stooped  in  the  garden;  her  crouch  in  a  field  of  lettuce  was  that  of  a  halfback.  In  the  house  her  skirt  hung  to  sweep  the  floor,  concealing  her  bare  snub-  toed  feet.  The  tracks  she  made  on  the  patio  tile  were  wedge-shaped,  like  axeheads.  Her  arms  were  brown  as  the  bark  of  the  eucalyptus,  her  face  resem-  bled  a  wood  shingle  pitted  with  buck-  shot.  It  would  bea  man's  face,  and  a  good  one,  Mr.  Drysdale  thought,  if  she  had  a  beard.  In  the  place  she  came  from,  near  Oaxaca,  she  used  to  make  tortillas  and  wrap  them  in  warm  white  towels,  then  MAS  carry  them  on  her  head  to  the  market  in  the  plaza,  still  warm.  First  the  slap-  slap-slap  of  her  hands,  then  the  slap-  slap-slap  of  her  feet-this  was  how  she'd  tell  the  story  to  the  Drysdale  children,  the  &quot;slap-slap&quot;  sound  being  the  same  in  English  and  Spanish.  If  the  two  girls  clapped  along,  the  little  boy,  Peanuts,  counted,  &quot;Uno,  dos,  tres,  cua-  tro,&quot;  in  Spanish,  stopping  at  &quot;cinco,&quot;  a  sound  he  didn't  like.  If  Mrs.  Drysdale  said,  &quot;One,  two,  three,  four,&quot;  in  En-  glish,  he  would  smile  and  clap,  but  it  was  not  the  same.  Peanuts'  real  name  was  Arnold  Av-  ery  Drysdale,  after  the  grandfather  who  sent  him  pineapples  from  [REDACTED],  but  his  two  sisters  and  his  father-and  Maria-all  called  him  Peanuts.  It  was  one  of  those  things  that  Mrs.  Drysdale  hoped  to  straighten  out  in  time.  In  a  camp  for  migrant  workers  north  of  the  border,  Maria  had  cooked  tor-  tillas  for  the  children  in  a  hubcap.  &quot;Uno  mas!  Uno  m\xc3\xa9s&quot;  they  cried  as  she  cooked.  Farther  up  in  [REDACTED],  at  a  flea  market,  Mrs.  Drysdale  found  her  babysitting  some  blond  children.  Mr.  Drysdale  took  their  picture,  but   Maria's  straw  hat  shaded  her  face.  Did  she  like  children,  they  asked  her.  Did  she  cook?  Just  Mexican  food?  Mrs.  Drysdale  explained  that  she  had  the  two  girls  in  school  already  but,  with  another  baby  on  the  way,  she  could  use  help  with  the  little  boy.  Once  Peanuts  clutched  the  rope  of  Maria's  braids,  he  would  not  let  go.  Now  that  Maria  was  here-wher-  ever  &quot;here&quot;  was-she  did  not  plan  to  go  back  where  she  came  from.  She  did  not  like  scrawny  chickens,  squealing  pigs,  the  dawn-braying  of  amorous  donkeys,  or  the  men  she  knew  there,  smiling  like  bandits,  good  for  nothing  but  making  trouble  and  babies.  What  she  liked  was  the  floor  in  this  kitchen,  so  clean  she  looked  down  and  saw  herself  in  it,  along  with  the  white  bottom  of  the  child  she  was  holding,  his  hand  tugging  her  braid.  Only  Pea-  nuts  did  that,  not  his  sisters,  who  watched  jealously  when  she  bathed  him.  This  anemic  white  child  had  once  been  subject  to  scabby  rashes  wherever  the  skin  folded-a  whimpering  howler  by  night,  a  sulker  by  day.  The  family  thought  it  was  something  in  the  milk,  in  the  wheat,  in  the  butter,  in  the  paint  he  chewed  on,  in  the  strained  baby  food  they  now  unloaded  on  the  raccoons  and  the  neighbors'  kittens.  The  sisters  had  to  be  careful  not  to  feed  him  jelly  beans,  orleave  their  vitamins  where  he  could  get  at  them.  Almost  anything  might  go  down,  and  out,  but  it  often  came  up.  All  of  that  hadchanged  with  the  com-  ing  of  Maria.  The  day  she  arrived,  Maria  bathed  him  in  the  sink,  using  the  lemon-scented  detergent,  then  oiled  him  and  put  him  in  thebasket  of  wrapped  paper-towel  rolls,  where  he  slept  like  a  baby.  In  no  time  at  all  he  was  eating  what  she  gave  him,  in-  cluding  her  salsa-flavored  guacamole.  &quot;Uno  m\xc3\xa9s!  Uno  m\xc3\xa9s&quot;  he  piped,  his  lips  puckered  for  one  more  mouthful.  Mr.  Drysdale  seemed  to  find  all  of  that  amusing.  On  weekends  he  made  the  time  to  take  Maria  shopping,  be-  cause  the  big  shopping  carts  gave  her  trouble  when  pushed  and  pulled  like  perambulators:  the  front  wheels  would  wobble,  or  notturn  at  all,  never  mind  which  cart  she  selected.  Mr.  Drysdale  was  much  better  at  pushing,  but  Maria  was  the  better  fish  buyer,  scooping  the  live  lobsters  out  of  the  tank  of  water.  He  also  liked  the  way  she  bought  car-  rots  with  their  tops  on,  and  twisted  them  offat  the  checkout  counter.  Nor  " b"was  it  unusual  for  some  of  the  shoppers  to  glance  from  the  dark,  squat  Maria  to  her  tall,  pale-faced  companion  as  he  stooped  to  empty  the  basket.  How  ex-  plain  that  Drysdale  seemed  indifferent  to  the  attention-maybe  even  to  like  it?  Down  the  aisles,  tailing  along  be-  hind  Maria,  he  saw  himself  a  darker  man-not  exactly  apeon,but  one  with  teeth  like  ivory  and  bushy  eye-  brows,  wheeling  their  brown-skinned  muchacho  in  the  cart  along  with  the  groceries.  Maria  did  not  wear  shoes  except  to  the  supermarket,  where  the  floors  around  the  freezers  were  often  sticky.  Sometimes  when  Drysdale  spoke  to  her  she  would  say  &quot;S7&quot;  with  no  movement  of  her  lips,  like  air  squeezed  from  a  cushion.  For  &quot;No,&quot;  a  slow,  sober  wag  of  her  head.  He  guessed  that  saying  no  had  once  proved  to  be  painful.  Sometimes  Mrs.  Drysdale  would  come  into  the  kitchen  to  watch  Maria  spoon-feed  Peanuts  her  salsa  gua-  camole,  which  he  would  spit  out  on  his  plate  when  his  mother  tried  it  on  him  in  the  dining  room.  The  little  girls  were  always  quick  to  reportthat  the  boy  was  talking  to  Maria  in  her  own  language.  What  did  he  say?  He  said  &quot;Uno  mas,&quot;  patting  his  hands  together  the  way  she  had  taught  him.  Even  Drysdale  had  seen  Maria  empty  the  child's  overfull  mouth  with  the  crook  of  a  brown  finger.  (This  was  another  thing  Mrs.  Drysdale  meant  to  get  to  when  she  found  the  time.)  And  she  made  the  mistake  of  asking  Maria  to  wipe  the  child's  sticky  fingers  rather  than  lick  them.  She  did  not  seem  to  understand  that  it  was  the  licking  of  fingers  that  both  Maria  and  Peanuts  liked.  Uno  m\xc3\xa9s!  Mrs.  Drysdale  worried  to  her  husband.  Was  the  child  backward  in  the  English  language?  Would  it  draw  him  apart  from  his  pretty,  older  sisters?  And  Maria  should  not,  she  complained,  be  rubbing  the  child  with  oil,  like  a  chicken;  but  Peanuts,  stand-  ing  on  the  breadboard,  gave  every  sign  that  he  loved  the  slap-slap  of  Maria's  hands  on  his  buttocks.  At  Mrs.  Drys-  dale's  suggestion,  Maria  did  check  in  the  flesh  folds  for  bread  crumbs  or  the  corns  of  black  pepper;  then  a  sniff  of  her  fingers  assured  her  the  child  was  clean.  His  mother  turned  away.  At  unpredictable  moments,  possibly  connected  with  her  current  pregnancy,  Mrs.  Drysdale  might  stand  with  her  fists  clenched,  her  limbs  shaking,  her  eyes  rolling  in  an  almost  comical  man-  ner.  This  greatly  amused  the  little  girls,  but  it  had  no  effect  on  Maria.  At  first,  Mrs.  Drysdale  had  thought  she'd  like  having  a  real  Indian  in  the  house  -she  felt  there  was  something  cura-  tive  about  it,  she  told  Mr.  Drysdale-  but  by  now  it  stopped  her  in  her  tracks,  like  an  earth  tremor,  when  she  heard  the  child  pipe,  &quot;Uno  m\xc3\xa9s!  Uno  mas!&quot;  Uno  mas  what?  SHE  was  smart  enough  not  to  panic,  however;  she  got  on  the  phone  to  an  old  school  friend  in  [REDACTED],  who  had  been  searching  for  a  cook  and  babysitter.  Peggy  Keeler  wanted  her  own  children  to  grow  up  with  Spanish  astheir  second  language.  Peggy  had  marrieda  successful  avocado  rancher,  and  lived  with  her  hellcat  small  fry  at  the  center  of  an  orchard  in  an  old  Victorian  house  with  three  bathrooms.  She  needed  help  so  badly  that  she'd  give  Maria  one  of  the  bathrooms  and  a  TV  in  her  attic  room.  Could  she  be  sent  right  away?  Had  she  had  all  the  shots?  It  was  left  to  Mr.  Drysdale,  on  the  pretext  of  taking  her  to  a  Mexican  movie  in  Gilroy,  to  actually  rei/rocd  Maria,  secretly  loading  her  belongings  in  a  laundry  hamper,  including  the  two  framed  reteblos  with  the  big  eyesthat  followed  Drysdale  as  he  went  about  his  scandalous  behavior.  In  the  front  seat  of  thecar  he  forced  upon  her  a  wad  of  rubber-banded  twenty-dollar  bills  as  he  muttered,  &quot;This  is  all  for  your  own  good,  Maria!&quot;  Not  a  word,  nota  shift  in  her  expression  even  reassured  him  that  she  had  understood  him.  But,  of  course,  as  the  drive  stretched  outshe  must  have-this  five-hour  drive  that  Drysdale  would  never  forget.  Finding  the  Keeler  ranch  was  like  a  twilight  egg  hunt,  with  clouds  of  dust  tailing  up  behind  the  car.  The  house  itself,  its  top-floor  windows  blazing  in  the  sunset,  was  a  weathered,  many-  gabled  Victorian  with  the  blue-green  ball  askew  on  the  tilted  lightning  rods.  Indoors,  the  hall  floors  were  rug-  " b"free  to  accommodate  the  rowdiness  of  the  children,  three  tomboy  girls  who  lorded  it  over  a  cowering  small  boy.  The  leader  of  the  pack,  chewing  on  strips  of  a  popped  balloon,  followed  Drysdale  about,  shooting  at  him  with  a  realistic  toy  pistol.  Wearing  patch-seated  Levi's,  her  graying  hair  in  a  pigtail,  her  lined  face  darker  than  Maria's,  Mrs.  Keeler  stood  at  a  smoking  range  grilling  ham-  burgers.  She  welcomed  Maria  warmly  in  Spanish,  however,  and  poured  her  a  glass  of  orange  juice  to  take  with  her  aspirin.  The  two  of  them  left  Drysdale  at  the  stove  and  went  off  toward  the  top  of  the  house,  followed  by  the  pack  of  hooting  hellions.  Mr.  Keeler  was  still  out  with  his  tractor,  irrigating.  From  the  attic  dormer,  the  small  window  thrown  wide,  Mrs.  Keeler  waved  and  shouted  to  the  departing  Drysdale  to  help  himself  from  thebasket  of  over-  ripe  avocados  he  would  find  on  the  porch.  Hours  later,  in  the  booth  of  a  diner,  his  windburned  face  splashed  with  wa-  ter,  Drysdale  was  puzzled  to  acknowl-  edge  that  what  he  felt  for  the  Keelers  was  envy.  That  household  had  been  like  a  bivouac  in  a  guerrilla  encamp-  ment.  He  regretted  missing  Mr.  Keeler,  whom  his  wife  had  called  Moosie-surely  a  bearded,  amiable  ruffian  with  forearms  like  Popeye  the  sailor's.  Well,  once  Maria  was  settled  in  she'd  be  all  right.  Drysdale  did  not  generally  consider  the  Third  World  to  be  his  personal  problem,  but  the  set-  tling  of  Maria-into  one  placeor  an-  other-gave  him  the  disquiet  of  a  win-  ner's  shame.  HE  found  his  wife  in  her  pajamas,  squatting  on  the  floor  of  the  bed-  room  beside  the  clothes  hamper,  in  which  Peanuts  slept  with  his  head  down,  his  disposable-diapered  bottom  up.  Now  and  then  he  sobbed,  his  flushed  cheeks  powdered  with  salt.  &quot;What  a  goddam  nightmare!&quot;  his  wife  cried.  &quot;Yow  talk  to  him.  You're  his  father!  I'm  not  going  to  let  him  black-  mail  me!&quot;  She  did  not  look  pretty,  Drysdale  noted,  with  her  haggard  eyes  and  swollen  tummy.  After  a  long,  drumming  shower,  as  he  towelled  off  under  the  beam  of  the  ceiling  lamp,  it  came  to  Drysdale  that  blackmail  implied  that  something  was  subject  to  negotiation.  But  this  would  be  war,  with  no  quarter  given,  ing  to  what  will  happen  to  us,  or  ought  to,  or  perhaps  already  has.  L  quarters  taken,  and  the  tireless,  life-  hungry  child  would  win  it.  Uno  m\xc3\xa9s:  the  only  way  to  peace  was  uno  mas.  On  the  phone  to  [REDACTED]  he  got  one  of  the  hellions,  who  shrilly  hooted,  &quot;It's  him!  It's  him!&quot;  until  her  mother  answered.  &quot;It  won't  work!&quot;  Drysdale  blurted.  &quot;I'm  dreadfully  sorry!  It  has  to  be  undone  before  the  cement  sets!&quot;  On  the  other  end  of  the  line,  silence.  &quot;Hello!  Hello!&quot;  he  cried.  Still  silence.  &quot;I'll  be  there  in  about  four  hours,&quot;  he  said,  took  two  aspirin,  filled  a  thermos  with  black  coffee,  and  smeared  his  lips  with  his  wife's  ChapStick.  In  the  valleythere  was  fog  so  thick  he  had  to  drive  with  the  wipers  flicking.  Mr.  Keeler  cupped  his  hands  to  his  face  to  bellow  to  Drysdale  from  the  seat  of  his  tractor,  the  motor  coughing.  Keeler  did  not  have  Popeye's  muscular  forearms,  but  a  nautical  cap  with  a  sweat-soiled  crown  was  pulled  down  tight  on  his  head.  He  was  one  of  those  tall,  consumptive-looking  men  of  the  sort  who  invariably  beat  Drysdale  at  badminton  andPing-Pong,  the  two  party  skills  he  relied  on  to  surprise  the  wiseacres  and  settle  old  scores.  When  they  shookhands  Drysdale  could  feel  the  fine  dust  on  his  palms.  Noting  the  sallow  pallor  behind  his  dark  glasses,  Drysdale  felt  more  kindly  toward  him.  &quot;All  apologies,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Can  you  forgive  us?  Eleanor  underestimated  the  boy's  attachment.&quot;  To  judge  from  his  expression,  Mr.  Keeler  had  no  idea  what  Drysdale  was  talking  about.  He  glanced  up  tosee  his  wife  at  the  dormer  window,  waving  and  yelling  that  Maria  wason  her  way  from  the  far  top  of  the  house  to  the  bottom.  She  appeared  with  a  duffelbag  Mrs.  Keeler  had  given  her  in  place  of  the  hamper.  In  her  calm,  unhurried  way,  Maria  paused  in  the  doorway  to  grip  the  hands  of  the  youngest  child.  Before  this  led  to  a  problem  Drysdale  " b"hurried  forward  to  scoop  up  the  duffel,  Maria  looking  as  impassive  as  ever.  Mrs.  Keeler  had  also  given  her  a  shawl,  the  tassels  dangling  to  the  dust  in  the  driveway.  No  words  were  spo-  ken.  Drysdale  could  not  explain  why  those  moments  ofsilence  so  aggravated  his  sense  of  betraying  her,  as  if  he  were  an  unsympathetic  relation  come  to  pick  her  up  after  a  short  stint  in  jail.  From  the  car,  Drysdale  turned  and  waved.  Maria  did  not.  The  tomboys  of  the  tribe  ran  along  behind  thecar  till  they  were  lost  in  the  dust.  For  more  than  anhour  Drysdale  debated  whether  stopping  for  food  and  fuel,  as  the  signs  advised  him,  would  narrow  the  space  between  them  or  in-  crease  it.  Maria  made  the  decision  for  him.  The  freeway  rest  stop  offered  shade,  a  drinking  fountain,  and  two  boys  wearing  ball  caps  playing  catch  with  an  older  sister  and  their  father.  It  was  painful  to  Drysdale  to  see  how  the  boys  let  the  old  man  have  it.  The  girl  watched  them,  tilting  on  her  ankles,  her  long  legs  bent  inward  at  the  knees.  Drysdale  noted  how  out  of  place  the  father  looked  in  the  open,  his  sleeves  rolled,  his  pants  sagging,  dis-  tracted  by  a  cloud  of  gnats.  Drysdale  himself  was  no  longer  of  an  age  to  roll  his  sleeves.  The  water  Maria  palmed  to  her  face  gave  a  shine  to  her  eyes.  Drysdale  looked  for  some  hint,  in  the  mask  of  her  face,  that  she  would  let  bygones  be  bygones.  What  he  sawwas  the  way  her  eyebrows  met  like  wings  at  the  bridge  of  her  nose,  and  herstrong  black  hair,  which  Peanuts  loved  to  hold.  The  girls  had  hair  like  corn  silk.  He  was  startled  by  the  touch  of  Maria's  fingers  on  his  sleeve,  to  offer  him  a  green  lozenge,  which  he  accepted.  During  the  last  half  hour,  passing  fields  of  stooped  migrant  workers,  he  dialled  the  radio  for  the  Mexican  music  that  sometimes  blew  upfrom  south  of  the  border.  What  he  got  was  a  long  commercial  that  kept  repeating  &quot;Pal-  moh-lee-vyay&quot;-Palmolive!  Drysdale  always  found  a  strange  language  at-  tractive  until  he  puzzled  out  what  was  being  said.  Maria  gave  no  sign  that  she  liked  the  music,  or  the  soap.  She  again  put  her  fingers  to  his  sleeve,  however,  as  they  approached  a  van  offering  vine-  ripened  tomatoes.  The  peddler  knew  her,  and  held  the  paper  bag  as  she  selected  those  he  approved.  Back  at  the  house,  she  stopped  in  the       kitchen  to  wash  the  breakfast  dishes  stacked  in  the  sink.  He  had  been  about  to  say,  but  managed  not  to,  how  good  it  was  to  have  her  back.  He  found  his  wife  in  the  bedroom  again,  the  shades  drawn,  watching  a  wine-sampling  pro-  gram  on  TV.  Out  on  the  deck,  in  the  shade  of  a  beach  umbrella,  her  mother  was  going  through  back  issues  of  House  &amp;  Garden  for  its  coverage  of  a  neighbor's  house.  In  the  hamper  at  her  side,  as  if  dropped  there,  Peanuts  slept  on  wrapped  packages  of  paper  towels.  On  the  lobe  of  one  ear  a  froth  of  suds  had  dried.  A  fearless  male  blue  jay,  ig-  nored  by  Mrs.  Larkin,  pecked  at  the  pretzel  crumbs  on  his  diaper.  Mrs.  Larkin's  glowing  blue-rinsed  white  hair  stood  up  about  her  head  as  she  turned  to  Drysdale.  &quot;What's  it  all  about,  Leonard?&quot;  She  said.  &quot;I  don't  make  much  sense  out  of  what  Eleanor  tells  me.  Uno  mas,  uno  mas-what  does  it  mean?&quot;  Knowing  that  it  might  well  mean  something  to  Maria,  Mrs.  Larkin  paused  there  as  Maria  appeared  and  scooped  up  the  sleeping  child.  Drysdale  was  caught  by  the  way  her  arms  ac-  commodated  the  limp  body  like  a  sling.  The  boy's  left  hand  dangled  as  she  went  off  with  him.  &quot;I  suppose  it's  none  of  my  business  to  ask,  is  it?&quot;  Drysdale  may  not  have  heard  the  question,  or  he  may  not  have  known  the  answer.  &quot;You  ready  for  a  refill,  Mother?&quot;  he  queried,  and  picked  up  the  tall  glass  in  which  ice  cubes  were  melting.  &quot;One  more  of  the  same  will  do,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Whatever  it  was.&quot;"