 b"EVERY  place  that  I  could  name  you,  in  the  whole  world  around  us,  has  better  things  about  it  than  Argus,  North  Dakota.  I  just  hap-  pened  to  grow  up  there  for  eighteen  years,  and  the  soil  got  to  be  part  of  me,  the  air  has  something  in  it  that  I  breathed.  Argus  water  doesn't  taste  as  good  as  water  in  the  cities.  Still,  the  first  thing  I  do,  walking  back  into  my  mother's  house,  is  stand  at  the  kitchen  sink  and  toss  down  glass  after  glass.  &quot;Are  you  filled  up?&quot;  My  mother  stands  behind  me.  &quot;Sit  down  if  you  are.&quot;  She's  tall  and  board-square,  French-  Chippewa,  with  long  arms  and  big  knuckles.  Her  face  is  rawbhoned,  fierce,  and  almost  masculine  in  its  edges  and  planes.  Several  months  ago,  a  beauty  operator  convinced  her  that  she  should  feminize  her  look  with  curls.  Now  the  permanent,  grown  out  in  grizzled  streaks,  bristles  like  the  coat  of  a  ter-  rier.  I  don't  look  like  her.  Not  just  the  hair,  since  hers  is  salt-and-pepper  and  mine  is  a  reddish  brown,  but  my  build.  I'm  short,  boxy,  more  like  my  Aunt  Mary.  Like  her,  I  can't  seem  to  shake  this  town.  I  keep  coming  back  here.  &quot;'There's  jobs  at  the  beet  plant,&quot;  my  mother  says.  This  rumor,  proba-  bly  false,  since  the  plant  is  in  a  slump,  drops  into  the  dim,  close  air  of  the  kitchen.  We  have  the  shades  drawn  because  it's  a  hot  June,  over  a  hun-  dred  degrees,  and  we're  trying  to  stay  cool.  Outside,  the  water  has  been  sucked  from  everything.  The  veins  in  the  leavesare  hollow,  the  ditch  grass  is  crackling.  The  sky  has  absorbed  every  drop.  It's  a  thin  whit-  ish-blue  veil  stretched  from  end  to  end  over  us,  a  flat  gauze  tarp.  From  the  depot,  I've  walked  here  beneath  it,  dragging  my  suitcase.  We're  sweating  as  if  we're  in  an  oven,  a  big  messy  one.  For  a  week,  it's  been  too  hot  to  clean  much  or  even  move,  and  the  crops  are  stunted,  fail-  ing.  The  farmer  next  to  us  just  sold  his  field  for  a  subdivision,  but  the  con-  struction  workers  aren't  doing  much.  They're  wearing  wet  rags  on  their  heads,  sitting  near  the  house  sites  in  the  brilliance  of  noon.  The  studs  of  wood  stand  upright  over  them,  but  useless-  ly-nothing  casts  shadows.  The  sun  has  dried  them  up,  too.  &quot;'The  beet  plant,&quot;  my  mother  says  again.  \xc2\xab&quot;Maybe  so,&quot;  I  say,  and  then,  because  I've  got  something  bigger  on  my  mind,  &quot;Maybe  I'll  go  out  there  and  apply.&quot;  &quot;Oh?&quot;  She  is  intrigued  now.  &quot;God,  this  is  terrible!&quot;  I  take  the  glass  of  water  in  my  hand  and  tip  some  onto  my  head.  I  don't  feel  cooler,  though;  I  just  feel  the  steam  rising  off  me.  &quot;'The  fan  broke  down,&quot;  she  states.  &quot;Both  of  them  are  kaput  now.  The  motors  or  something.  If  Mary  would  get  the  damn  tax  refund,  we'd  run  out  to  Pamida,  buy  acouple  more,  set  up  a   breeze.  Then  we'd  be  cool  out  here.&quot;  &quot;Your  garden  must  be  dead,&quot;  I  say,  lifting  the  edge  of  the  pull  shade.  &quot;It's  sick,  but  I  watered.  And  I  won't  mulch;  that  draws  the  damn  slugs.&quot;  &quot;Nothing  could  live  out  there,  no  bug.&quot;  My  eyes  smart  from  even  look-  ing  at  the  yard,  which  is  a  clear  sheet  of  sun,  almost  incandescent.  \xc2\xabYou'd  be  surprised.&quot;  I  wish  I  could  blurt  it  out,just  tell  her.  Even  now,  the  words  swell  in  my  mouth,  the  one  sentence,  but  I'm  scared,  and  with  good  reason.  There  is  this  about  my  mother:  it  is  awful  to  see  her  angry.  Her  lips  press  together  and  she  stiffens  herself  within,  growing  wooden,  silent.  Her  features  ecome  fixed  and  remote,  she  will  not  speak.  It  takes  a  long  time,  and  until  she  does  you  are  held  in  suspense.  Nothing  that  she  ever  says,  in  the  end,  is  as  bad  as  that  feeling  of  dread.  So  I  wait,  half  believing  that  she'll  figure  out  my  se-  cret  for  herself,  or  drag  it  out  of  me,  not  that  she  ever  tries.  If  I'm  silent,  she  hardly  notices.  She's  not  like  Aunt  Mary,  who  forces  me  to  say  more  than  I  know  is  on  my  mind.  My  mother  sighs.  &quot;It's  too  hot  to  bake.  It's  too  hot  to  cook.  But  it's  too  hot  to  eat  anyway.&quot;  She's  talking  to  her-  self,  which  makes  me  reckless.  Perhaps  she  is  so  preoccupied  by  the  heat  that  I  can  slip  my  announcement  past  her.  I  should  just  say  it,  but  I  lose  nerve,  make  an  introduction  that  alerts  her.  &quot;I  have  something  to  tell  you.&quot;  I've  cast  my  lot;  there's  no  going  back  unless  I  think  quickly.  My  thoughts  hum.  But  she  waits,  for-  getting  the  heat  for  a  moment.  &quot;Ice,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;We  have  to  have  ice.&quot;  I  speak  intensely,  lean-  ing  toward  her,  almost  glaring,  but  she  is  not  fooled.  &quot;Don't  make  me  laugh,&quot;&quot;'  she  says.  &quot;'There's  not  a  cube  in  town.  The  refrigera-  " b"tors  can't  keep  cold  enough.&quot;  She  eyes  me  the  way  ahunter  eyes  an  animal  about  to  pop  from  its  den  and  run.  &quot;O.K.&quot;  I  break  down.  &quot;I  really  do  have  something.&quot;  I  stand,  turn  my  back.  In  this  lightless  warmth  I'm  dizzy,  almost  sick.  Now  I've  gotten  to  her  and  she's  frightened  to  hear,  breathless.  &quot;'Tell  me,&quot;  she  urges.  &quot;Go  on,  get  it  over  with.&quot;  And  so  I  say  it.  &quot;I  got  married.&quot;  There  is  a  surge  of  relief,  a  wind  blowing  through  the  room,  but  then  it's  gone.  The  curtain  flaps  and  we're  caught  again,  stunned  in  an  even  denser  heat.  It's  now  my  turn  to  wait,  and  I  whirl  around  and  sit  right  across  from  her.  Now  is  the  time  to  tell  her  his  name,  a  Chippewa  name  that  she'll  know  from  the  papers,  since  he's  noto-  rious.  Now  is  the  time  to  get  it  over  with.  But  I  can't  bear  the  picture  she  makes,  the  shock  that  parts  her  lips,  the  stunned  shade  of  hurt  in  her  eyes.  I  have  to  convince  her,  somehow,  that  it's  all  right.  &quot;You  hate  weddings!  Just  think,  just  picture  it.  Me,  white  net.  On  a  day  like  this.  You,  stuffed  in  your  sum-  mer  wool,  and  Aunt  Mary,  God  knows  ...  and  the  tux,  the  rental,  the  groom  ...&quot;  Her  head  had  lowered  as  my  words  fell  on  her,  but  now  her  forehead  tips  up  and  her  eyes  come  into  view,  already  hardening.  My  tongue  flies  back  into  my  mouth.  She  mimics,  making  it  a  question,  &quot;The  groom  ...&quot;  I'm  caught,  my  lips  half  open,  a  stuttering  noise  in  my  throat.  How  to  begin?  I  have  rehearsed  this,  but  my  lines  melt  away,  my  opening,  my  casu-  al  introductions.  I  can  think  of  noth-  ing  that  would  convince  her  of  how  much  more  he  is  than  the  captions  beneath  the  photos.  There  is  no  pic-  ture  adequate,  no  representation  that  captures  him.  So  Ijust  put  my  hand  across  the  table  and  I  touch  her  hand.  &quot;Mother,&quot;  I  say,  as  if  we're  in  astaged  drama,  &quot;he'll  arrive  here  shortly.&quot;  There  is  something  forming  in  her,  some  reaction.  I  am  afraid  to  let  it  take  complete  shape.  &quot;Let's  go  out  and  wait  on  the  steps,  Mom.  Then  you'll  see  him.&quot;  &quot;I  do  not  understand,&quot;  she  saysin  a  frighteningly  neutral  voice.  This  is  what  I  mean.  Everything  is  suddenly   forced,  unnatural-we're  reading  lines.  &quot;He'll  approach  from  a  distance.&quot;  I  can't  help  speaking  like  a  bad  actor.  &quot;I  told  him  to  give  me  an  hour.  He'll  wait,  then  he'll  come  walking  down  the  road.&quot;  We  rise  and  unstick  our  blouses  from  our  stomachs,  our  skirts  from  the  backs  of  our  legs.  Then  we  walk  out  front  in  single  file,  me  behind,  and  settle  ourselves  on  the  middle  step.  A  scrubby  box-elder  tree  on  one  side  casts  a  light  shade,  and  the  dusty  lilacs  seem  to  catch  a  little  breeze  on  the  other.  It's not  so  bad  out  here,  still  hot,  butnot  so  dim,  contained.  It  is  worse  past  the  trees.  The  heat  shimmers  in  a  band,  rising  off  the  fields,  out  of  the  spars  and  bones  of  houses  that  will  wreck  our  view.  The  horizon  and  the  edge  of  town  show  through  the  gaps  in  the  framing  now,  and  as  we  sit  we  watch  the  workers  move,  slowly,  almost  in  a  practiced  recital,  back  and  forth.  Their  headcloths  hang  to  their  shoulders,  their  hard  hats  are  dabs  of  yellow,  their  white  T-shirts  blend  into  the  fierce  air  and  sky.  They  don't  seem  to  be  doing  anything,  although  we  hear  faint  thuds  from  their  hammers.  Otherwise,  except  for  the  whistles  of  a  few  birds,  there  is  silence.  Certainly  we  don't  speak.  It  is  a  longer  wait  than  I  anticipated,  maybe  because  he  wants  to  give  me  time.  At  last  the  shadows  creep  out,  hard,  hot,  charred,  and  the  heat  begins  to  lengthen  and  settle.  We  are  going  into  the  worst  of  the  afternoon  when  a  dot  at  the  end  of  the  road  begins  to  form.  " b"    Mom  and  I  are  both  watching.  We  have  not  moved  our  eyes  around  much,  and  we  blink  and  squint  to  try  and  focus.  The  dot  doesn't  change,  not  for  a  long  while.  And  then  it  suddenly  springs  clear  in  relief-a  silhouette,  lost  for  a  moment  in  the  shimmer,  reappearing.  In  that  shining  expanse  he  is  a  little  wedge  of  moving  shade.  He  continues,  growing  imperceptibly,  until  there  are  variations  in  the  outline,  and  it  can  beseen  that  he  is  large.  As  he  passes  the  construction  workers,  they  turn  and  stop,  all  alike  in  their  hats,  stock-still.  Growing  larger  yet,  as  if  he  has  absorbed  their  stares,  he  nears  us.  Now  we  can  see  the  details.  He  is  dark,  the  first  thing.  His  arms  are  thick,  his  chest  is  huge,  and  the  features  of  his  face  are  wide  and  open.  He  carries  nothing  in  his  hands.  He  wears  ablackT-shirt,  the  opposite  of  the  construction  work-  ers,  and  soft  jogging  shoes.  His  jeans  are  held  under  his  stomach  by  a  belt  with  a  star  beaded  on  the  buckle.  His  hair  is  long,  in  a  tail.  I  am  the  wrong  woman  for  him.  I  am  paler,  shorter,  un-magnificent.  But  I  stand  up.  Mom  joins  me,  and  I  answer  proudly  when  she  asks,  &quot;His  name?&quot;&quot;  &quot;His  name  is  Gerry-&quot;  Even  now  I  can't  force  his  last  name  through  my  lips.  But  Mom  is  distracted  by  the  sight  of  him  anyway.  We  descend  one  step,  and  stop  again.  It  is  here  we  will  receive  him.  Our  hands  are  folded  at  our  waists.  We're  balanced,  composed.  He  continues  to  stroll  toward  us,  his  white  smile  widening,  his  eyes  filling  with  the  sight  of  me  as  mine  are  filling  with  him.  At  the  end  of  the  road  behind  him,  another  dot  has  appeared.  It  is  fast-moving  and  the  sun  flares  off  it  twice:  a  vehicle.  Now  there  are  two  figures-one  approaching  in  a  spume  of  dust  from  the  rear,  and  Gerry,  unmindful,  not  slackening  or  quicken-  ing  his  pace,  continuing  on.  It  is  like  a  choreography  design.  They  move  at  parallel  speeds  in  front  of  our  eyes.  Then,  at  the  same  moment,  at  the  end  of  our  yard,  they  con-  " b"his  thumbs  in  his  belt.  He  nods  respectfully  to  Mom,  looks  calmly  at  me,  and  half  smiles.  He  raises  his  brows,  and  we're  suspended.  Officer  Lovchik  emerges  from  the  police  car,  stooped  and  tired.  He  walks  up  behind  Gerry  and  I  hear  the  snap  of  handcuffs,  then  I  jump.  I'm  stopped  by  Gerry's  gaze,  though,  as  he  backs  away  from  me,  still  smiling  ten-  derly.  I  am  paralyzed  halfway  down  the  walk.  He  kisses  the  air  while  Lovchik  cautiously  prods  at  him,  fit-  ting  his  prize  into  the  car.  And  then  the  doors  slam,  the  engine  roars,  and  they  back  out  and  turn  around.  As  they  move  away  there  is  no  siren.  I  think  I've  heard  Lovehik  mention  question-  ing.  I'm  sure  it  is  lots  of  fuss  for  nothing,  a  mistake,  but  it  cannot  be  denied-this  is  terrible  timing.  I  shake  my  shoulders,  smooth  my  skirt,  and  turn  to  my  mother  with  a  look  of  outrage.  &quot;How  do  you  like  that?&quot;  I  try.  She's  got  her  purse  in  one  hand,  her  car  keys  out.  &quot;Let's  go,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;O.K.,&quot;  I  answer.  &quot;Fine.  Where?&quot;  &quot;Aunt  Mary's.&quot;  &quot;I'd  rather  go  and  bail  him  out,  [REDACTED];  &quot;Bail,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;Bail?&quot;  She  gives  me  such  a  look  of  cold  and  furious  surprise  that  I  sink  immediately  into  the  front  seat,  lean  back  against  the  vinyl.  I  almost  welcome  the  sting  of  the  heated  plastic  on  my  back,  thighs,  shoulders.  AIN\xe2\x80\x99T  Mary  lives  at  the  rear  of  the  butcher  shop  she  runs.  As  we  walk  toward  the  &quot;House  of  Meats,&quot;  her  dogs  are  rugs  in  the  dirt,  flattened     by  the  heat  of  the  day.  Not  one  of  them  barks  at  us  to  warn  her.  We  step  over  them  and  get  no  more  reaction  than  a  whine,  the  slow  beat  of  a  tail.  Inside,  we  get  no  answers  either,  although  we  call  Aunt  Mary  up  and  down  the  hall.  We  enter  the  kitchen  and  sit  at  the  table,  which  holds  a  half-ruined  water-  melon.  By  the  sink,in  a  tin  box,  are  cigarettes.  My  mother  takes  one  and  carefully  puts  a  match  to  it,  frowning.  &quot;I  know  what,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;Go  check  the  lockers.&quot;  There  are  two-a  big  freezer  full  of  labelled  meats  and  rental  space,  and  another,  smaller  one  that  is  just  a  side  cooler.  I  notice,  walking  past  the  meat  display  counter,  that  the  red  beacon  beside  the  outside  switch  of  the  cooler  is  glowing.  That  tells  you  when  the  light  is  on  inside.  I  pull  the  long  metal  handle  toward  me  and  the  thick  door  swishes  open.  I  step  into  the  cool,  spicy  air.  Aunt  Mary  is  there,  too  proud  to  ever  register  a  hint  of  surprise.  She  simply  nods  and  looks  away  as  though  I've  just  been  out  for  a  minute,  although  we've  not  seen  one  another  in  six  months  or  more.  She  is  relaxing  on  a  big  can  of  pepper  labelled  &quot;Zanzibar,&quot;  reading  a  scien-  tific-magazine  article.  I  sit  down  on  a  barrel  of  alum.  With  no  warning,  I  drop  my  bomb:  &quot;I'm  married.&quot;  It  doesn't  matter  how  I  tell  it  to  Aunt  Mary,  because  she  won't  be,  refuses  to  be,  surprised.  &quot;What's  he  do?&quot;  she  simply  asks,  putting  aside  the  sheaf  of  paper.  I  thought  the  first  thing  she'd  do  was  scold  me  for  fooling  my  mother.  But  it's  odd,  for  two  women  who  have  lived  through  boring  times  and  disasters,  how  rarely  one  comes  to  the  other's  defense,  and  how  often  they  are  each  willing  to  take  advantage  of  the  other's  absence.  But  I'm  benefitting  here.  It  seems  that  Aunt  Mary  is  truly  inter-  ested  in  Gerry.  So  I'm  honest.  &quot;He's  something  like  a  political  ac-  tivist.  I  mean  he's  been  in  jail  and  all.  But  not  for  any  crime,  you  see;  it's  just  because  of  his  convictions.&quot;  She  gives  me  a  long,  shrewd  stare.  Her  skin  is  too  tough  to  wrinkle,but  she  doesn't  look  young.  All  around  us  hang  loops  of  sausages,  every  kind  you  can  imagine,  every  color,  from  the  purple-black  of  blutwurst  to  the  pale-  whitish  links  that  my  mother  likes  best.  Blocks  of  butter  and  headcheese,  a  can  of  raw  milk,  wrapped  parcels,  and  " b"cured  bacons  are  stuffed  onto  the  shelves  around  us.  My  heart  has  gone  still  and  cool  inside  me,  and  I  can'tstop  talking.  &quot;He's  the  kind  of  guy  it's  hard  to  describe.  Very  different.  People  call  him  a  free  spirit,  but  that  doesn't  say  it  either,  because  he's  very  disciplined  in  some  ways.  He  learned  to  beneat  in  jail.&quot;  I  pause.  She  says  nothing,  so  I  go  on.  &quot;I  know  it's  sudden,  but  who  likes  weddings?  I  hate  them-all  that  mess  with  the  bridesmaids'  gowns,  getting  material  to  match.  I  don't  have  girl-  friends.  I  mean,  how  embarrassing,  right?  Who  would  sing  'O  Perfect  Love&quot;?  Carry  the  ring?&quot;  She  isn't  really  listening.  &quot;What's  he  do?&quot;  she  asks  again.  Maybe  she  won't  let  go  of  it  until  I  discover  the  right  answer,  like  a  game  with  nouns  and  synonyms.  &quot;He-well,  he  agitates,&quot;  I  tell  her.  &quot;Is  that  some  kind  of  factory  work?&quot;  &quot;Not  exactly,  no,  it's  not  a  nine-to-  five  job  or  anything  ...&quot;  She  lets  the  magazine  fall,  now,  cocks  her  head  to  one  side,  and  stares  at  me  without  blinking  her  cold  yellow  eyes.  She  has  the  look  of  a  hawk,  ofa  person  who  can  see  into  the  future  but  won't  tell  you  about  it.  She's  lost  busi-  ness  for  staring  at  customers,  butshe  doesn't  care.  &quot;Are  you  telling  me  that  he  doesn't  .  .  .&quot;  Here  she  shakes  her  head  twice,  slowly,  from  one  side  to  the  other,  without  removing  me  from  her  stare.  &quot;That  he  doesn't  have  regular  work?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  what's  the  matter,  anyway?&quot;&quot;  I  say  roughly.  &quot;I'll  work.  This  is  the  nineteen-seventies.&quot;  She  jumps  to  her  feet,  stands  over  me  -a  stocky  woman  with  terse  features  and  short,  thin  points  of  gray  hair.  Her  earrings  tremble  and  flash-small  fiery  opals.  Her  brown  plastic  glasses  hang  crooked  on  a  cord  around  her  neck.  I  have  never  seen  her  become  quite  so  instantly  furious,  so  disturbed.  &quot;We're  going  to  fix  that,&quot;  she  says.  The  cooler  immediately  feels  smaller,  the  sausages  knock  at  my  shoulder,  and  the  harsh  light  makes  me  blink.  I  am  as  stubborn  as  Aunt  Mary,  however,  and  she  knows  that  I  can  go  head  to  head  with  her.  &quot;We're  married  and  that's  final.&quot;  I  manage  to  stamp  my  foot.  Aunt  Mary  throws  an  arm  back,  blows  air  through  her  cheeks,  and  waves  away  my  statement  vigorously.  &quot;You're  a  little  girl.  How  old  is  he?&quot;  I  frown  at  my  lap,  trace  the  threads  in  my  blue  cotton  skirt,  and  tell  her  that  age  is  irrelevant.  &quot;Big  word,&quot;  she  says  sarcastically.  &quot;Let  me  ask  you  this.  He's  old  enough  to  get  a  job?&quot;  &quot;Of  course  he  is;  what  do  you  think?  O.K.,  he's  older  than  me.  He's  in  his  thirties.&quot;  &quot;Aha,  I  knew  it.&quot;  &quot;Geez!  So  what?  I  mean,  haven't  you  ever  been  in  love,  hasn't  someone  ever  gotten  you  right  here?&quot;  I  smash  my  fist  on  my  chest.  We  lock  eyes,  butshe  doesn't  waste  a  second  in  feeling  hurt.  &quot;Sure,  sure  I've  been  in  love.  You  think  I  haven't?  I  know  what  it  feels  like,  you  smart-ass.  You'd  be  surprised.  But  he  was  no  lazy  son  of  a  bitch.  Now,  listen  .  ..&quot;  She  stops,  draws  breath,  and  I  let  her.  &quot;Here's  what  I  mean  by  'fix.'  I'll  teach  the  sausage-making  trade  to  him-to  you,  too-and  the  grocery  business.  I've  about  had  it  anyway,  and  so's  your  mother.  We'll  do  the  same  as  my  aunt  and  uncle-leave  the  shop  to  you  and  move  to  [REDACTED].  I  likethis  place.&quot;  She  looks  up  at  the  burning  safety  bulb,  down  at  me  again.  Her  face  drags  in  the  light.  &quot;But  what  the  hell.  I  always  wanted  to  travel.&quot;  I'm  stunned,  a  little  flattened  out,  maybe  ashamed  of  myself.  &quot;You  hate  going  anywhere,&quot;  I  say,  which  is  true.  The  door  swings  open  and  Mom  comes  in  with  us.  She  finds  a  milk  can  and  balances  herself  on  it,  sighing  at  the  delicious  feeling  of  the  air,  absorb-  ing  from  the  silence  the  fact  that  we  have  talked.  She  hasn't  anything  to  add,  I  guess,  and  as  the  coolness  hits,  her  eyes  fall  shut.  Aunt  Mary's,  too.  I  can't  help  it,  either,  and  my  eyelids  drop,  although  my  brain  is  conscious  and  alert.  From  the  darkness,  I  can  see  us  in  the  brilliance.  The  light  rains  down  on  us.  We  sit  the  way  we  have  been  sitting,  on  our  cans  of  milk  and  pepper,  upright  and  still.  Our  hands  are  curled  loosely  in  our  laps.  Our  faces  are  blank  as  the  gods'.  We  could  be  statues  in  a  tomb  sunk  into  the  side  of  a  " b"mountain.  We  could  be  dreaming  the  world  up  in  our  brains.  T  is  later,  and  the  weather  has  no  mercy.  We  are  drained  of  every-  thing  but  simple  thoughts.  It's  too  hot  for  feelings.  Driving  home,  we  see  how  field  after  field  of  beets  has  gone  into  shock,  and  even  some  of  the  soybeans.  The  plants  splay,  limp,  burned  into  the  ground.  Only  the  sunflowers  continue  to  struggle  upright,  bristling  but  small.  What  drew  me  in  the  first  place  to  Gerry  was  the  unexpected.  I  went  to  hear  him  talkjust  afterI  enrolled  at  the  university,  and  then  I  demonstrated  when  they  came  and  got  him  off  the  stage.  He  always  went  so  willingly,  accommodating  everyone.  I  began  to  visit  him.  I  sold  lunar  calendars  and  posters  to  raise  his  bail  and  eventually  free  him.  One  thing  led  to  another,  and  one  night  we  found  ourselves  alone  in  a  Howard  Johnson's  coffee  shop  down-  stairs  from  where  they  put  him  up  when  his  speech  was  finished.  There  were  much  more  beautiful  women  after  him;  he  could  have  had  his  pick  of  Swedes  or  Yankton  Sioux  girls,  who  are  the  best-looking  of  all.  But  I  was  different,  he  says.  He  liked  my  slant  on  life.  And  then  there  was  no  going  back  once  it  started,  no  turning,  as  though  it  was  meant.  We  had  no  choice.  I  have  this  intuition  as  we  near  the  house,  in  the  fateful  quality  of  light,  as  in  the  turn  of  the  day  the  heat  contin-  ues  to  press  and  the  blackness,  into  which  the  warmth  usually  lifts,  lowers  steadily:  We  must  come  to  the  end  of  something;  there  must  bea  close  tothis  day.  As  we  turn  into  the  yard  we  see  that  Gerry  is  sitting  on  the  porch  stairs.  Now  itis  our  turn  to  be  received.  I  throw  thecar  door  open  and  stumble  out  beforethe  motor  even  cuts.  I  run  to  him  and  hold  him,  as  my  mother,  pur-  suing  the  order  of  events,  parks  care-  fully.  Then  she  walks  over,  too,  hold-  ing  her  purse  by  the  strap.  She  stands  before  him  and  says  no  word  but  simply  looks  into  his  face,  staring  as  if  he's  cardboard,  a  man  behind  glass  who  cannot  see  her.  I  think  she's  rude,  but  then  I  realize  that  he  is  staring  back,  that  they  are  the  same  height.  Their  eyes  are  level.  He  puts  his  hand  out.  &quot;My  name  is  Gerry.&quot;  &quot;Gerry  what?&quot;  &quot;Nanapush.&quot;  She  nods,  shifts  her  weight.  &quot;You're  from  that  line,  the  old  strain,  the  ones  ..  .&quot;  She  does  not  finish.  &quot;And  my  father,&quot;  Gerry  says,  &quot;was  Old  Man  Pillager.&quot;  &quot;Kashpaws,&quot;  she  says,  &quot;are  my  branch,  of  course.  We're  probably  re-  lated  through  my  mother's  brother.&quot;  They  do  not  move.  They  are  like  two  opponents  from  the  same  divided  coun-  try,  staring  across  the  border.  They  do  not  shift  or  blink,  and  I  see  that  they  are  more  alike  than  I  am  like  either  one  of  them-so  tall,  solid,  dark-haired.  They  could  be  mother  and  son.  \xc2\xabWell,  I  guess  you  should  come  in,&quot;  she  offers.  &quot;You  are  a  distant  relative,  after  all.&quot;  She  looks  at  me.  &quot;Distant  enough.&quot;  Whole  swarms  of  mosquitoes  are  whiningdown,  discovering  us  now,  so  there  is  no  question  of  staying  where  we  are.  And  so  we  walk  into  the  house,  much  hotter  than  outside,  with  the  gathered  heat.  Instantlythe  sweat  springs  from  our  skin  and  I  can  think  of  nothing  else  but  cooling  off.  Itryto  force  the  windows  higher  in  their  sashes,  but  there's  no  breeze  anyway;  nothing  stirs,  no  air.  &quot;Are  you  sure,&quot;  I  gasp,  &quot;about  those  fans?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  they're  broke,  all  right,&quot;  my  mother  says,  distressed.  I  rarely  hear  this  in  her  voice.  She  switches  on  the  lights,  which  makes  the  room  seem  hotter,  and  we  lower  ourselves  into  the  easy  chairs.  Our  words  echo,  as  though  the  walls  have  baked  and  dried  hollow. &quot;Show  me  those  fans,&quot;  says  Gerry.  My  mother  points  toward  the  kitchen.  &quot;They're  sitting  on  the  table.  I've  already  tinkered  with  them.  See  what  you  can  do.&quot;  And  so  he  does.  After  a  while  she  hoists  herself  and  walks  out  back  to  him.  Their  voices  close  together  now,  absorbed,  and  their  tools  clank  franti-  cally,  as  if  they  are  fighting  a  duel.  But  itis  a  race  with  the  bell  of  darkness  and  their  waning  energy.  I  think  of  ice.  I  get  ice  on  the  brain.  &quot;Be  right  back,&quot;  I  call  out,  taking  the  car  keys  from  my  mother's  purse.  &quot;Do  you  need  anything?&quot;  There  is  no  answer  from  the  kitchen  but  afurious  sputter  of  metal,  the  clat-  ter  of  nuts  and  bolts  spilling  to  the  floor.  DRIVE  out  to  the  Superpumper,  a  big  new  gas-station  complex  on  the  edge  of  town,  where  my  mother  most  likely  has  never  been.  She  doesn't  know  about  convenience  stores,  has  no  credit  cards  for  groceries  or  gas,  pays  only  with  small  bills  and  change.  She  never  has  used  an  ice  machine.  It  would  grate  on  her  that  a  bag  of  frozen  water  costs  eighty  cents,  but  it  doesn't  bother  me.  I  take  the  plastic-foam  cooler  and  I  fillit  for  a  couple  of  dollars.  I  buy  two  six-  packs  of  Shasta  soda  and  I  plunge  them  in  among  the  uniform  coins  of  ice.  I  drink  two  myself  on  the  way  home,  and  I  manage  to  lift  the  whole  heavy  cooler  out  of  thetrunk,  carry  it  to  the  door.  The  fans  are  whirring,  beating  the  air.  I  hear  them  going  in  the  living  room  the  minute  I  come  in.  The  only  light  shines  from  the  kitchen.  Gerry  and  my  mother  have  thrown  the  pil-  lows  from  the  couch  onto  the  living,  room  floor,  and  they  are  sitting  in  the  rippling  currents  of  air.  I  bring  the  cooler  in  and  put  it  near  us.  I  have  chosen  all  dark  flavors-black  cherry,  grape,  red  berry,  cola-so  as  we  drink  the  darkness  swirls  inside  us  with  the  night  air,  sweet  and  sharp,  driven  by  small  motors.  I  drag  more  pillows  down  from  the  other  rooms  upstairs.  There  is  no  ques-  tionof  attempting  the  bedrooms,  the  stifling  beds.  And  so,  in  the  dark,  I  hold  hands  with  Gerry  as  he  settles  down  between  my  mother  and  me.  He  is  huge  as  a  hill  between  the  two  of  us,  solid  in  the  beating  wind. "