 b"NATALIE  rolls  up  her  white  slacks  N  past  her  knees  and  rolls  up  the  sleeves  of  her  T-shirt  until  her  shoulders  jut  out.  With  the  sun  hitting  her  like  a  lotion,  Natalie  rubs  her  calves  and  explains  how  it  is  that  throughout  Republican  Administra-  tions  sheshaves  her  legs.  Her  legs  do  shine.  The  skin  is  so  smooth  she  must  shave  her  legs  twice  a  day.  &quot;A  woman  does  not  have  a  choice,&quot;  she  tells  me.  She  wants  me  to  under-  stand  how  itis,  in  the  future  she  envi-  sions,  that  a  woman  will  have  a  choice,  and  then  she  may  or  may  not  shave  her  legs,  it  will  be  her  choice.  I  wish,  for  the  sake  of  argument,  that  I  didn't  shave  my  legs.  But  I  do.  I  would  say  it's  a  choice.  I  shadow  my  eyes  with  my  hands  and  look  out  into  the  weeds.  Natalie,  who  is  my  aunt,  tries  to  forget  we  are  related.  This  is  an  im-  portant  policy  matter  for  her.  She  leans  back  in  a  lawn  chair  in  my  yard  and  looks  at  me  through  the  August  heat,  through  glints  of  pollen.  W  hat  she  sees  is  my  eyes,  the  vagueness  of  her  sister's  blue  eyes,  set  in  the  bone  of  skull-the  bone  overhang  of  the  brow  at  midday,  a  blue  shadow  the  color  of  my  eyes.  She  sees  the  seclusion.  She  sees  the  chin  of  her  twin  brother.  &quot;Family,&quot;  she  has  said  to  me,  more  than  once,  &quot;is  a  fowl  substitute  for  effective  government.  Louie,&quot;  she  has  said,  &quot;I  want  you  to  understand.  You  know  this  is  true.&quot;  My  name  is  Louise.  Natalie  wants  me  to  understand  the  insufficiency  of  family,  I  believe,  be-  cause  I  am  family.  How  would  I  know  her  otherwise?  I  would  never  have  met  her,  out  and  about.  She  is  a  traveller.  She  holds  political  office.  She  has  thick  Mediterranean  hair  that  she  braids-  one  braid-off  to  one  side  or  the  other.  It  was  Aunt  Natalie  who  called  me  Louie  instead  of  Louise  when  I  was  newly  born  and  boy-faced.  She  trusted  appearances  overmuch,  even  then.  &quot;Oh,  sure.  A  shaved  leg  is  a  point-  less  thing,  Louie.  It  is  spite.  This  is  a  zero,&quot;  Natalie  says.  &quot;But  it  all  adds  up.  There  is  a  weight  on  a  person,  man  or  woman.  You  carry  the  decade,  you  can't  help  it.&quot;  She  kicks  one  leg.  She  straightens  her  shoulders  and  then  slouches  low,  to  match  me,  in  the  chair.  &quot;You  can't  shake  these  things.  It's  like  air.&quot;  &quot;I'm  thinking  of  getting  married,&quot;  I  tell  her.  &quot;Oh,  my  God.  There.  If  this  weren't  now,  if  this  weren't  these  days,  would  that  be  a  thought?  Well,  who  is  it  this  time?  Sam?  What  has  he  done  now,  planted  a  pretty  tree?&quot;  HEN  Natalie  visits,  we  sit  around.  We  sit  around  outside,  never  inside.  The  back  yard  looks  out  directly  into  a  swamp,  with  standing  water  that  shows  up  white  at  the  base  of  cattails.  Beyond  the  water,  canary  grass,  then  velvetleaf,  then  a  slope  up-  hill  with  the  dryland  weeds:  Queen  Anne's  lace  now,  goldenrod  to  follow,  with  purple  aster  mixed  in,  and  quack  grass  holding  everything  together.  All  of  the  mottled  colors  change  daily,  blooming  and  fading,  until  by  Natalie's  next  visit,  after  the  elections  in  No-  vember,  the  sky  will  have  lowered  and  the  hill  will  be  a  splatter  of  yellows,  maroons,  multitudinous  browns,  the  silver  fluff  of  blown-out  seed,  and  we  will  sit  in  our  coats  in  the  chairs  and  watch  it  blow.  NATALIE  likes  Sam  as  much  as  I  do.  He  is  out  of  place.  He  is  out  of  touch.  It  is  a  subject  we  have  explored  on  her  other  visits,  although  we  have  never  decided  if,  in  the  end,  his  disloca-  tion  is  good  or  bad.  We  debate  the  issue.  There  are  pros  and  cons.  For  my  part,  I  like  that  Sam  does  what  he  does-which  is  little.  He  works  in  salvage.  He  saves  whatever  can  be  saved  from  condemned  build-  ings.  It  is  his  policy  that  human  beings  must  work  to  do  as  little  damage  as  possible.  He  watches  every  step.I  like  that  he  doesn't  cut  his  hair-it  is  al-  most  to  his  shoulders-but  then,  Nata-  lie  says,  he  doesn't  have  to.  Natalie  thinks  there  is  no  way  a  human  being  can  mot  dodamage.  She  thinks  he  shouldnot  isolate  himself.  He  should  watch  TV.  Buy  cereal.  Know  the  name  of  his  state  representa-  tive  (it  is  Natalie).  Visit  the  Badlands.  It  is  our  old  debate,  and  we  end  up  talking  about  Sam  and  possible  Sams " b"the  way  people  end  up  talking  about  long  novels,  saying  yes  to  every  charac-  ter  in  the  book:  the  pharmacist,  mother,  father,  mechanic,  the  worn  student,  the  bebop  babysitter,  the  axe  murderer,  the  terrorist-intellectual,  the  recluse-they  all  make  sense.  Such  is  the  horror  and  solace  of  the  imag-  ination.  Of  long  conversation  with  Natalie.  SAM  first  showed  up  around  here  two  years  ago,  watching  for  woodcock.  He  told  me  that  with  the  mowed  path  woodcock  would  have  an  excellent  place  to  land,  April  to  June,  for  their  breeding  display.  That  spring  we  car-  ried  lawn  chairs  out  into  the  field  every  night  and  watched  until  dark.  It  was  a  show.  When  Natalie  visited  in  May,  we  brought  her  along.  Night  after  night,  on  schedule,  the  male  woodcock-from  wherever  he'd  been-zeroed  in  on  the  level  stretch  of  path,  landed  without  a  flap,  and  put  himself  though  his  minutes  of  ho-hum,  preliminary  beeping.  And  then-it  was  always  a  shock-he  soared  off  into  the  last  light  of  the  sky,  spiralling  up  until  he  was  a  fleck  of  dark,  and  then  farther,  and  then  it  was  all  purple  overhead  and  nothing  else.  In  another  minute,  just  when  you  thought  gone,  he  plummeted  straight  down,  a  calamitous  free-fall,  feathers  whistling,  careering  the  way  other  things  career  out  ofcontrol.  But  he  was  homing  in,  and  at  the  last  moment,  the  whistle  trailing  off,  he  appeared  like  asimple  pitched  glove,  in  a  dullness  of  landing,  feet  first,  wings  shunted  back,  and  there  he  was  again,  unremarkable  on  the  ground,  brown  and  mottled  gray,  beeping,  bland,  more  bland  than  before.  &quot;And  where  is  the  female  for  this  display?&quot;  Natalie  wanted  to  know.  &quot;Camouflaged,&quot;  Sam  said.  &quot;Nobody  knows,&quot;  I  said.  Natalie  draped  a  blanket  over  her  arms  and  kept  her  binoculars  on  the  woodcock  as  long  as  there  was  light.  After  that,  we  sat  in  the  dark  a  long  while  and  listened.  It  was  the  whole  bric-a-brac  racket  of  swampland:  peeper  frogs,  bullfrogs,  crickets-in  perpetuity-some  kind  of  squawking  in  the  trees,  low  wind  in  alfalfa,  rattling  evenhandedly.  &quot;This  scares  me,&quot;  Natalie  said.  &quot;The  highdrama.  Reproduction.  They  could  walk  down  the  path,  fe-  male  this  way,  him  that  way,  and  meet,  and  that  would  work  very  well.  Maybe  for  them,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;all  this  is  nothing       out  of  the  ordinary.  To  ws  it's  a  specta-  cle.  God,  this  scares  me!&quot;  Sam  suggested  she  concentrate  on  plant  life.  He  said  that  might  ease  her  mind.  &amp;  ELL  me  about  your  house,&quot;  I  say  to  Natalie.  &quot;'That  doesn't  matter.  You  don't  want  to  hear  about  houses,  Louie.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;What  do  I  want  to  hear  about?&quot;  &quot;Well,  what  about  the  drought?  What  can  you  tell  me  about  the  drought?&quot;  Natalie  sprawls  her  legs  out  and  aims  her  faceinto  the  sun  and  shuts  her  eyes.  &quot;It  might  be  over.  There's  been  rain.  Weeds  are  growing-velvetleaf  is  booming.  Beans  are  bad.  Corn  is  very  bad.&quot;  &quot;Show  me  the  velvetleaf,&quot;  Natalie  says.  She  likes  to  see  theevidence.  &quot;We  could  chop  some,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;It's  taken  over.&quot;  I  tell  her  to  stay  put  while  I  get  the  tractor  and  mower,  but  she  stands  up,  kicks  her  legs  to  get  them  going,  and  follows  me  to  the  barn.  In  the  shade  of  the  lower  barn  door,  and  then  into  the  dampness  next  to  the  stone  foundation,  it  is  suddenly  cool.  Natalie  pulls  her  arms  in  and  rubs  her  elbows  as  she  walks.  We  go  through  the  chicken  room,  where  there  are  no  chickens,  and  on  into  the  basement,  where  the  tractor  is  housed.  The  big  sliding  doors  are  open,  and  sunlight  halts  outside,  an  enormous  yellow  square  with  wavering  edges.  Natalie  walks  ahead  of  me.  In  the  shadow  of  the  tractor  tires,  she  picks  up  the  PTO  shaft  of  the  flail  mower.  She  must  know  there's  grease  on  the  cou-  pling.  She  must  know  her  slacks  are  white.  But  she  goes  ahead,  jams  the  parts  together.  I  climb  on  the  tractor  and  start  it  up.  From  the  implement  box,  I  sort  out  the  hitch  pins,  some  cotter  pins,  and  hand  them  back  to  her.  Adjust-  ing  the  three-point  hitch,  sometimes  up,  sometimes  down,  we  get  the  mower  at-  tached,  and  Natalie  climbs  up  beside  me  on  the  narrow  steel  step  of  the  tractor,  to  " b" ride  along.  I  shift  into  gear,  and  we  drive  out  into  the  blare  of  light.  Natalie  leans  back  on  the  fender;  her  slacks  are  smudged  badly.  We  pull  around  the  west  side  of  the  barn,  and  there  Natalie  looks  at  her  skinny  gold  watch  and  says,  &quot;Drive  me  to  town,  Louie.  Let's  see  Sam  first.  I  haven't  even  been  through  town.&quot;  HEN  Natalie  visits,  it  doesn't  matter  the  season,  we  get  around.  We  don't  do  much,  but  it's  like  a  vacation  abroad,  even  so,  where  you  see  that  anything  people  do  inside  or  outside  a  house  deserves  recollection,  a  photograph.  If  you  weren't  a  foreigner,  trying  to  blend  in,  you'd  take  some  pic-  tures.  Soybean,  sorghum  fields,  blue  houses  at  the  edge  of  town-they  come  into  focus,  with  a  blunt  Moroccan  sun  on  them.  If  you  had  a  camera,you'd  aim  it  at  the  tractor,  head  on,  and  at  the  velvetleaf,  a  quarter-acre  patch,  with  its  seedpods  puffed  like  bishops'  hats-a  closeup  of  its  greenery,  its  spires.  We  drive  the  tractor,  nine  miles  per  hour,  down  Lawrence  Road  the  three  miles  to  town.  Natalie  waves  to  her  constituents  here  and  there-somebody  at  a  mailbox,  somebody  picking  up  child's  toy  in  a  yard.  When  they  recog-  nize  the  tractor,  acouple  of  them  wave  back.  I  keep  an  eye  on  traffic  and  let  Natalie  be  the  parade.  At  the  red  light  in  town,  Natalie  hikes  herself  up  on  the  fender.  She  rebraids  her  braid.  The  sun  shines  on  her  elbows.  The  sun  shines  on  the  Mobil  sign.  On  the  low  sweep  of  the  curb.  It's  a  glittery  desert  sun.  There  is  sunlight  on  the  drinking  fountain,  a  granite  post  set  in  the  sidewalk.  Water  loops  into  sunlight  out  of  the  silver  faucet.  The  traffic  light  switches  to  green,  Natalie  grabs  the  fender,  and  two  blocks  on  at  Sam's  place  we  pull  up  to  the  door  of  the  warehouse  and  park  in  the  gravel.  A  handwritten  sign  on  the  door  says  &quot;Back  at  3.&quot;  Since  itis  almost  three,  we  sit  on  the  steps.  The  sun's  hitting  everything-every  cut  of  every  chunk  of  gravel.  Sam  is  a  punctual  person.  We  discuss  that  admirable  trait,  and  then  Natalie  counts  the  storefrontbusinesses  that  have  come  and  gone  in  recent  years:  the  Fabric  Center,  Black's  Jewelry,  Hall's  Insurance,  the  European  Salon.  Nat-  alie  has  statistics  on  small  businesses,  and  this  town  is  representative.  She's  used  it  in  speeches,  although  I  believe  it  is  not  because  of  the  numbers  but  because  of  the  name,  Cement  City  -a  name  that  gives  people  a  laugh  standing  out  there,  listening  to  her  speech.  At  the  same  time,  it's  a  name  they  find  easy  to  believe  and  easy  to  picture:  plain  buildings,  a  cement  plant,  the  short  run  of  sidewalk  down-  town.  Businesses  come  and  go.  Down  from  Sam's,  the  European  Salon-hair  styling  for  men  and  women-opened  up  when  Black's  Jewelry  closed.  The  shop  boomed,  with  Marie  LeCou  from  [REDACTED],  but  then  Sam  let  his  hair  grow,  and  his  whole  crew,  too,  and  women  began  trimming  their  own  hair-I  do.  Signs  ofsuccess  have  faded  a  bit  at  the  shop,  and  the  parking  lot  is  back  to  chunks  of  asphalt  and  dirt.  Natalie  keeps  in  touch  with  turns  in  the  economy.  If  things  get  worse,  she  says,  she'll  writea  letter,  advising  the  shop  employees  on  programs,  summa-  rizing  what's  available.  She  does  her  job.  T  wo  blocks  off  -Natalie  spots  them  first-Sam  and  three  of  his  work  crew  appear  at  the  corner.  They'rewalking  back  from  somewhere,  maybe  coffee.  Sam  is  wearing  his  purple  shirt.  He's  loping  along,  where  the  curb  runs  into  the  lots  and  weeds  are  growing  back  " b"after  the  drought.  He  bends  down  from  time  to  time  and  snaps  off  some  stalks  -it's  hard  tosee  how  he  makes  a  selection.  He  picks  a  bunch.  He  falls  behind  the  crew,  and  they  turn  off  at  Grove  Street.  I  can  see  he's  got  a  handful  of  velvetleaf-the  dowel-rod  stalks,  those  hand-size  leaves.  He's  got  chicory,  too.  Foxtail.  Something  very  green,  a  plume  of  green-it's  probably  goldenrod,  just  setting  buds.  Natalie  waves.  Sam  lifts  the  whole  bunch  of  weeds  and  waves  his  arm  up  and  down.  He  raises  the  other  hand  in  the  air,  astop  or  a  wait  sign,  and  he  ducks  into  the  European  Salon,  a  step  to  open  the  door,  a  step  inside.  The  door  doesn't  shut.  He's  out  again,  empty-handed,  and  on  his  way.  Natalie  calls  out,  &quot;Sam!&quot;  He  walks  up  and  kisses  her  cheek.  He  takes  my  hand,  without  thinking.  He  just  picks  it  up  and  our  palms  slip  together  and  our  fingers  interlock.  That  is  how  easy  it  is  with  him  to  say  hello.  There  is  a  dark,  humid  complex  of  spaces  caught  in  our  arrangement  of  hands,  and  while  Natalie  and  Sam  go  over  the  news  I  try  to  trace  in  my  mind  the  in-and-out  boundaries  of  that  at-  mosphere.  BY  the  time  we  drive  back  through  town  and  up  Lawrence  Road,  past  my  house  to  the  lane  to  mow  velvetleaf,  it  is  late  afternoon.  The  lane  takes  us  close  enough  to  the  windows  of  the  house  for  me  to  see  where  flies  have  gathered  again  in  the  heat,  inside  in-  stead  ofoutside,  flinging  themselves  against  the  glass  panes  and  up  and  down  with  the  noise  of  kazoos,  day  and  night.  Sam  does  not  like  to  sleep  in  the  house  until  after  a  hard  freeze,  when  the  flies  are  gone.  I  tell  this  to  Natalie,  who  is  inter-  ested,  of  course.  She  says,  &quot;Louie,  it  is  not  a  comfortable  world.  We  don't  fit  in.&quot;  But  shelooks  comfortable  enough,  riding  along.  Braced  against  the  fender,  she  keeps  her  arms  free,  to  point  things  out:  the  dead  elms,  a  groundhog  -who  knows  why'-hanging  to  the  low  branch  of  a  mulberry  tree.  &quot;Sweet  thing,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;Notorious  pest.&quot;  Natalie  can  think  two  ways  at  once,  and  I  believe  that's  why  I  like  her.  At  the  same  time,  she  has  taught  herself  to  cast  a  vote,  this  or  that.  In  her  job,  she  doesn't  have  a  choice.  I  motion  toward  the  turn  of  path  ahead  and  over  the  noise  of  the  tractor  shout,  &quot;Woodcock!&quot;  as  a  reminder.  &quot;'The  fuss!  The  female  hides  out!  A  good  argument  against  marriage!&quot;  Natalie  shouts.  That's  how  she  gathers  and  recalls  evidence.  That's  how  she  builds  an  argument.  She's  also  trying  to  make  me  laugh.  She  wants  it  both  ways.  &quot;'This  is  great,&quot;  Natalie  says,  as  she  always  says  out  here,  pointing  to  the  path.  She  approves  of  the  lane  we  are  mowing  to  the  woods-the  way  it  winds  around  the  swamp  and  back  through  pines-because  she  knows  I  mowed  it  along  a  deer  path.  And  one  of  her  arguments  is  that  humans  must  stop  imposing  straight  lines  and  ninety-degree  angles  on  the  surface  of  the  planet.  It  makes  sense  to  me.  &quot;'That's  why  you're  voted  in,&quot;  I  tell  her.  I  have  no  quarrels  with  Aunt  Nata-  lie.  CLUMP  of  velvetleaf  stands  off  to  one  side  of  the  path,  in  abare  patch  around  the  debris  of  a  groundhog  hole.  The  stalks  are  shoulder-high.  The  leaves  span  out,  hand  over  hand,  and  the  seedpods  rise  in  a  crown,  some  doughy  green  and  some  already  dried  to  a  pinched  crust.  Natalie  jumps  down.  She  skims  her  arm  like  a  wand  though  theplants  and  seeds  fly  out,  pellets  tapping  the  layersof  leaves.  &quot;Replication,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;It  scares  the  life  out  of  me.  Duplication.  More  of  the  same.&quot;  I  watch  her  tap  more  pods-she's  planted  a  thousand  plants-on  the  loose  ground.  She's  not  getting  rid  of  anything.  &quot;It's  a  weed,&quot;  I  tell  her.  &quot;It's  not  family.&quot;  &quot;Still,&quot;  Natalie  says.  &quot;That's  how  it  works.  Family  is  idiot  chance.  It's  dumb  luck.  You  can't  vote  on  it.  No-  body  should  have  to  count  on  family.  Don't  count  on  it,  Louie.&quot;  &quot;Sam  won't  be  family,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;Even  if  I  marry  him.&quot;  'You  may  not  think  so,&quot;  she  says,  &quot;but  that's  how  it  is.  That's  how  it  is  these  days.&quot;  Natalie  does  a  stomping  sort  of  dance  in  the  velvetleaf.  The  scent  of  the  crushed  leaves  rolls  in  the  air-a  musty,  baked,  underbelly  smell,  with  a  wave  of  sweetness  in  it.  We  mow  the  patch  down.  Riding  back,  I  shut  the  mower  off.  It  trails  along,  its  rubber  balancing  wheel  dragging  a  green  stripe  down  the  path  behind  us.  &quot;All  right,  get  married,&quot;  Natalie  finally  says.  &quot;You're  a  woman  of  your  times.&quot;  She's  not  angry.  She  knows  me  too  well-since  I  was  born.  We  ride  along.  I  do  my  best  to  explain-I  mention  love,  and  ordinary  life,  and  how  sunlight  figures  in.  Nata-  lie  listens  to  everything.  She  shakes  her  head.  But  at  one  point  she  says,  &quot;All  right,  Louie,  thet  makes  sense,&quot;  when  I  say  how  it's  hard  not  to  marry  a  man  who  carries  an  armload  of  flowering  weeds  to  a  hairdresser  who  no  longer  cuts  his  hair,  and  says,  &quot;Marie,  here  you  are.&quot; "