 b"HOME  for  the  holidays  again?&quot;  The  cabdriver  knows  me.  It's  a  small  town.  At  my  destination,  he  stops  in  the  middle  of  the  street  and  flings  my  luggage  toward  the  side-  walk.  &quot;Sure  you  won't  come  and  see  the  folks?&quot;  I  say,  but  all  I  hear  is  &quot;Ho,  ho,  ho!&quot;  as  he  roars  away.  The  years  away  have  not  dulled  my  senses  when  it  is  again  time  to  savor  the  nuances  of  our  annual  gathering.  Sparkling  in  the  morning  chill,  the  old  front  porch  awaits  me,  covered  by  a  fresh  layer  of  white  winter  fluffiness.  The  creamy  vanilla  frosting  is  my  mother's  own  special  recipe,  lovingly  applied  with  bold,  sweeping  strokes  that  crisscross  the  floorboards  and  handrails  with  a  series  of  interlocking  peaks  and  valleys.  The  buttery-smooth  layers  give  way  easily  beneath  my  shoes  asI  walk  up  the  steps.  After  dinner,  my  young  cous-  ins  will  be  turned  loose  on  this  area,  and  by  the  end  of  the  night  they  will  have  licked  every  square  inch  back  down  to  the  finish.  A  crowd  gathers  in  the  front  hall-  way  as  I  take  off  my  coat  and  set  down  my  suitcase.  &quot;Welcome  back,  Josh,&quot;  says  Aunt  Gloria,  leaning  forward  to  give  me  a  kiss.  She  is  wearing  a  Santa  Claus  hat  and  a  bushy  white  beard,  and  as  her  lips  touch  my  cheek  I  suddenly  realize  that  the  beard  is  real.  Gloria  is  an  actress,  and  has  always  stressed  the  importance  of  a  total  com-  mitment  to  each  and  every  role  in  her  career.  &quot;Listen,&quot;  she  says  in  an  urgent  whisper,  &quot;this  character  is  incredibly  complex,  and  he's  not  a  nice  man  at  all.  Promise  you'll  talk  to  me  later-  O.K.?&quot;  I  nod,  and  she  grins  and  pinches  my  ear.  I  stroll  through  the  old  house  and  feel  the  familiar,  warming  glow  of  expectation.  How  sweet  it  is  that  so  little  seems  to  change  from  year  to  year.  At  the  end  of  the  downstairs  hallway  there  are  rumblings  behind  the  kitchen  door.  Can  it  be?  I  peek  inside  and  a  blast  of  steamy  heat  takes  my  breath  away  momen-  tarily.  Yes,  as  is  customary  in  this  house  at  this  time  of  year,  the  configu-  ration  of  the  kitchen  furniture,  the  counters,  the  stove,  and  the  appliances,  has  been  temporarily  modified  into  an  CHRISTMAS  Indian  longhouse  for  the  preparation  of  the  holiday  dinner.  Many  years  ago,  our  domestic  assis-  tant,  Mrs.  Koslowski,  attended  a  class  in  Native  American  Cooking  and  de-  cided  we  should  make  this  day  into  a  celebration  of  multicultural  under-  standing.  She  changed  her  legal  name  to  Harriet  Ten  Feathers,  and  now,  staring  through  the  opening  in  the  doorway,  I  can  see  her  tenderizing  the  turkey  with  vigorous  blows  from  a  hand-chiselled  obsidian  tomahawk.  On  the  floor  lies  a  sheepskin  poultice  she  has  prepared  in  which  the  bird  will  be  wrapped,  along  with  a  special  blend  of  herbal  seasonings.  Harriet  refers  to  this  procedure  as  Tualit  Keena-Ho,  the  Feast  of  Rainbow  Warriors.  Back  in  college,  I  once  repeated  the  phrase  to  a  linguistics  professor,  and  he  said  it's  more  of  aslang  term  that  translates  literally  as  &quot;I  am  sweating  and  my  pants  hurt.&quot;  In  the  den,  Uncle  Elmore  lies  mo-  tionless  beneath  a  single,  glistening,  two-hundred-pound  Comice  pear,  the  pride  of  this  year's  Harry  &amp;  David  catalogue.  His  efforts  to  incorporate  the  impressive  specimen  into  the  cen-  terpiece  of  our  dining-room  table  are  part  of  his  own  personal  ritual  called  Raising  the  Fruit.  &quot;Hiya,  sport!&quot;  he  calls  out  cheerily.  &quot;Don't  come  in-I  can  handle  this  baby,  once  my  second  wind  kicksin.&quot;  In  truth,  Elmore  has  not  gone  unas-  sisted  for  years.  This  harmless  pretense  helps  him  maintain  the  illusion  of  youthful  vitality.  I  smile  and  say  noth-ing.  Later  he  will  quietly  lose  con-  sciousness.  In  the  dining  room,  my  father  is  working  feverishly  to  complete  his  own  contribution  to  the  festivities.  The  ta-  ble  is  immaculate.  Silver  place  settings  and  crystal  goblets  sparkle  like  trea-  sure.  In  one  corner  of  the  room  is  a  fifty-five-gallon  plastic  drum,  exuding  a  savory  holiday  aroma.  Since  before  dawn  my  father  has  been  carefully  blending  bread  crumbs,  wild  rice,  spices,  and  chicken  broth  in  it,  on  a  scale  unheard  ofin  most  civilized  countries.  Before  my  arrival,  he  began  warming  the  drum  with  a  hand-held  microwave  generator  until  its  contents  reached  just  the  proper  combination  of  firmness  and  consistency.  Now,  before  my  again  astonished  eyes,  rests  the  outcome  of  his  self-taught  culinary  and  sculpting  talents.  It  is  a  minutely  detailed  full-size  replica  of  the  orig-  inal  La-Z-Boy  recliner.  In  our  fami-  ly  it  is  simply  called  the  Overstuffed  Chair.  Before  sounding  the  dinner  bell,  my  father  gestures  toward  his  creation.  Tears  prickle  my  eyes,  and  for  a  mo-  ment  I  am  too  overcome  to  respond.  This  is  a  Christmas  honor  usually  re-  served  for  special  guests.  Taking  my  hand,  he  urges  me  forward  and  then  helps  me  ease  down,  sothat  my  body  conforms  intimately  with  the  contours  of  the  recliner.  A  profound  sense  of  total  unity  with  all  living  things  en-  gulfs  me  as  wisps  of  steam  rise  from  the  armrests,  and  every  fibre  of  my  clothing  and  my  being  is  penetrated  by  the  warm,  oozing  juices.  &quot;Happy  holidays,  Josh.  Are  you  glad  to  be  home?&quot;  &quot;Where  else  would  I  want  to  be?&quot;  &quot;Here's  something  else,&quot;  my  father  says,  handing  me  a  length  of  nylon  rope.  I  can  see  that  the  other  end  is  attached  to  a  trapdoor  in  the  ceiling.  The  old  man  leans  close,  and  his  lips  form  the  word  &quot;gravy.&quot;  &quot;Dad,&quot;  Isay,  &quot;it's  great  to  be  home.&quot;  "