 b"Cnuck  Barris,  creator  of  &quot;The  C  Gong  Show,&quot;  his  face  set  hard,  signed  his  warmup  books  out-  sidea  Waldenbooks  in  [REDACTED].  Yes.  He  was  spelling  his  name  right,  with  two  &quot;r&quot;'s.  His  hand  was  moving  well.  He  felt  good-tense  but  good.  He  took  a  deep  breath,  crushed  out  a  cigarette,  and  went  inside  and  started  autograph-  ing  copies  of  &quot;You  and  Me  Babe.&quot;  An  hour  later,  he  had  autographed  over  six  hundred  copies.  At  this  time,  1974,  this  was  a  feat  that  was  consid-  ered  unapproachable.  Today,  school-  children  can  autograph  six  hundred  books  in  an  hour.  Many  can  auto-  graph  eight  hundred,  and  scores  in  the  low  nine  hundreds  are  common-  place.  The  incredible  has  become  the  expected.  The  outlandish  has  become  the  normal.  The  weird  has  become  the  everyday.  Yet  surely  there  is  some  limit,  some  barrier  beyond  which  book  signers  can-  not  go.  History  has  not  been  kind  to  those  who  have  predicted  limits.  Hans  Fleeder,  a  University  of  [REDACTED]  psy-  chology-of-the-hand  expert,  predicted  in  1966  that  Jackie  Susann's  mark  of  two  hundred  and  eighty-six  signings  would  stand  forever.  Within  a  year,  Su-  sann's  mark  had  been  broken  over  a  doz-  en  times.  Today,  tapes  of  sixties-era  book  signings  look  like  slow  motion.  We  look  at  them  and  think,  Too  slow.  But  we  also  think,  How  fast  can  we  go?  a  For  years,  this  question  was  a  purely  hypothetical  one:  ask  fifty-nine  &quot;experts&quot;  and  you  might  receive  fifty-  nine  &quot;expert&quot;  opinions,  along  with  a  great  deal  of  tedious  conversation.  Today,  however,  we  seem  on  the  verge  of  a  breakthrough.  Today,  for  the  first  time,  we  seem  close  to  an  answer  to  that  age-old  question  How  many  books  can  a  celebrity  author  sign  in  an  hour?  There  are  many  facets  to  this  in-  quiry.  Let  us  examine  them.  CurTuraL  Factors  The  world  population  has  tripled  in  this  century.  This  has  had  an  enor-  mous  impact.  The  equation  is  simple:  -Associated  Press.  the  more  people,  the  more  paper.  The  more  paper,  the  more  printing.  The  more  printing,  the  more  words.  The  more  people,  paper,  printing,  and  words,  the  more  books,  the  more  chances  to  exceed  book-signing  limits.  Improved  nutrition  is  also  a  factor  here.  For  example,  Jackie  Susann  often  ate  a  breakfast  of  a  chocolate  doughnut  and  a  cup  of  Sanka.  Today's  fast  signer  wouldn't  dream  of  starting  a  day  with-  out  a  vast  array  of  complex  carbohy-  drates  and  carefully  administered  training  fluids.  A  few  years  ago,  in  a  famous  incident,  Sidney  Sheldon,  minutes  before  a  signing,  ate  a  Pop-  Tart  and  drank  a  Dr.  Brown's.  Fifteen  minutes  later,  no  one  could  read  his  signature.  Forty  minutes  later,  Sheldon  began  to  sign  the  name  &quot;Rosemary  Rogers&quot;  in  his  books.  An  E.M.S.  unit  was  called,  and  the  exhausted  creator  of  &quot;I  Dream  of  Jeannie&quot;  was  rushed  to  the  nearest  hospital  and  swiftly  hooked  up  to  an  [REDACTED]  drip.  Today,  thankfully,  Sheldon  is  all  right,  but  his  story  stands  as  a  sad  reminder  of  what  a  book  signer  faces  when  he  truly  &quot;goes  for  it.&quot;  EouimrmENT  Perhaps  nowhere  else  has  modern  technology  had  such  a  great  impact.  It  is  well  known  that  Erich  Segal  experimented  with  a  p  p  primitiv0e  felt-tip  pen(  actually  a  Q-Tip  coated  with  some  \xc2\xa38  foreign  substance)  as  early  as  1970,  but  it  wasn't  until  the  Mario  Puzo  era  that  felt-tip  pens  became  the  norm.  Today,  the  felt-tip  pen  threatens  to  become  as  archaic  as  a  big  [REDACTED]  riverboat.  Just  last  summer,  a  team  at  Caltech  came  up  with  a  pen  they  called,  whimsically,  the  CR-319.  The  CR-  319  was  so  technologically  advanced  that  it  had  to  be  scrapped  after  it  broke  the  sound  barrier  during  a  signing  at  B.  Dalton's  in  [REDACTED].  They've  gone  back  to  the  drawing  board  on  the  CR-319,  yet  experts  still  predict  that  we  will  see  faster  pens  in  the  future.  &quot;It's  inevitable,&quot;  says  Gaylord  Ten-  don,  of  Yo  Labs.  &quot;Fast  pens  are  sexy,  and  people  will  always  be  attracted  to  them.&quot;  OTHER  Factors  The  great  unknown  factor  in  book  signing  has  been  &quot;hushed  up&quot;  in  most  book-signing  circles  until  recent  months,  and  is  still  largely  unknown  among  the  public  at  large:  steroids.  No  one  knows  just  how  pervasive  the  use  of  these  &quot;signing  enhancers&quot;  may  be,  but  highly  placed  members  of  the  Authors  Guild  agree  that  it  is  probably  a  com-  mon  practice.  &quot;Anytime  you'd  see  an  author  come  in  for  a  signing  with  a  really  big  hand,  you  had  to  be  suspicious,&quot;  says  Gene  Fibula,  owner  ofthe  Booknook,  in  Madison,  [REDACTED].  &quot;You'd  see  more  and  more  of  these  authors-little  skinny  guys  with  these  gigantic  meta-  carpals.  You  knew  what  was  happen-  ing,  but  you  never  said  anything.  Why  alarm  the  crowd?&quot;  Testing  has  proved  impracticable.  Authors  are  not  stupid;  they  know  how  to  mask  the  use  of  steroids.  In  a  highly  publicized  event  in  1987,  Erica  Jong  was  nabbed  for  blood  doping,  but  the  matter  was  dropped  when  further  tests  indicated  that  laboratory  machines  had  been  reacting  to  her  nailpolish.  But  most  book  signers,  tragically,  will  con-  tinue  to  abuse  almost  anything  modern  science  will  make  available  to  them.  Tur  Human  Factor  The  human  factorwill  be  involved  in  the  future  of  book  signing  no  matter  what  agents  and  oddsmakers  may  pre-  dict.  Book  signing  is  exclusively  a  hu-  man  activity.  No  gazelles,  for  instance,  do  it.  Knowing  what  we  know  about  humans,  it's  hard  not  to  imagine  a  scene  like  this:  Judith  Krantz  is  at  the  mall  ten  min-  utes  early.  Nervously  she  twists  her  head  one  way,  then  the  other.  She  extends  her  fingers.  Yes,  she  nods;  she  is  ready.  She  puts  her  hands  on  her  handler's  shoulders.  Krantz  and  her  entourage  enter  the  arena  and  move  through  the  wildly  excited  crowd.  She  sits  down  at  the  desk,  half  hidden  by  the  mountains  of  volumes  that  tower  above  her  on  all  sides,  and  takes  out  her  pen.  She  turns  and  whispers  to  her  handler.  It  is  a  harsh  whisper-harsh  from  intensity:  &quot;I'm  going  to  sign  these  books.&quot;  It's  not  hard  to  imagine  an  author  like  Krantz,  on  a  perfect  day,  in  the  best  of  shape  and  with  the  best  equip-  ment,  shattering  our  concept  of  book  signing. "