 b"(DepicaTteEp  to  Womrn  Love  Too  Much) TODAY,  instead  of  going  through  the  usual  routine,  which,  frankly,  none  of  you  seem  to  be  getting  that  well,  I  thought  I'd  focus  on  these  failed  candidates,  point  out  why  they  flunked,  have  a  good  time  with  their  flaws.  Let's  look  at  what  they  did  wrong.  1.  Carme  Claire  is  an  attractive  film  reviewer  in  her  early  thirties.  A  stunning  bru-  nette,  she's  been  in  and  out  of  a  dozen  &quot;relationships&quot;  but  is  now  &quot;available&quot;  again.  When  I  met  her,  she  had  just  been  through  a  painful  and  extremely  self-destructive  relationship  with  &quot;Fred.&quot;  &quot;Fred,&quot;  aravishing  filmedi-  tor  inhis  late  thirties,  was  married  and  insisted  on  meeting  her  in  obscure  re-  sorts  on  holidays  only.  (His  wife  be-  longed  to  a  violent  religious  group,  quite  beyond  animal  sacrifice,  self-flag-  ellation,  etc.,  which  did  not  permit  outsiders  to  participate  in  their  festive  seasons.)  Claire,  who  was,  as  I  say,  a  wildly  attractive  film  reviewer,  the  graduate  of  a  topnotch  Eastern  school,  the  daughter  of  attractive,  highly  edu-  cated  people  (her  father  was  provost  of  a  major  interdenominational  religious  restaurant;  her  mother,  an  attractive,  well-educated  woman  in  her  mid-fif-  ties,  doledout  anabolic  steroids  and  had  corrupted  many  of  the  nation's  finest  athletes-in  [REDACTED],  too),  was  beginning  to  wonder  if  she  would  ever  have  a  happy,  sustained  relationship.  The  answer  is:  Not  with  me  she  can't.  Claire  is  making  one  simple,  basic  er-  ror,  like  many  other  attractivefilm  reviewers;  however  often  she  changes  the  externals  of  her  situation,  basically  the  underlying  problem  remains  un-  touched.  The  fact  is,  I  don't  date  film  reviewers.  I  date  film  critics.  Claire  came  on  with  a  clumsy  &quot;thumbs  up,  thumbs  down&quot;  routine,  which  was,  frankly,  an  embarrassment.  One  and  a  half  stars  for  that  one,  Claire.  I  thought  the  plot  was  kind  of  contrived,  and  we've  seen  these  characters  before.  2.  Mary  Mary  is  one  of  those  women  who  can't  seem  to  get  a  handle  on  life.  She  just  drifts  from  day  to  day,  unable  to  concentrate  on  her  real  ambition,  which  is  to  torment  her  daughter.  We'll  be  hearing  more  about  Mary  later.  3.  Susan  Susan  cannot  learn  to  classify  men.  In  fact,  she  can't  tell  one  from  another.  The  subway,  where  there  are  hundreds  of  men,  is  a  particular  problem  for  her.  So  let's  give  it  one  more  try  for  Susan.  Sit  down  and  listen.  There  arethree  kinds  of  men:  1.  Tus  WurEpurR\xc2\xae  At  first  he's  all  attention.  She  can't  get  enough  of  him,  he  can't  get  enough  of  her  (so  she  thinks),  but  all  the  time  she's  putting  garnishes  on  the  dish  of  love,  he's  getting  ready  to  move  out.  2.  Tus  Tomcat  She's  in  heaven:  she's  finally  met  &quot;The  One.&quot;  The  trouble  is  just  that-  trouble.  The  reason  he's  so  crazy  about  her  is  that  he's  crazy  about  every  girl.  He  can't  get  enough!  He's  an  absolute  raving  maniac!  He's  ready  to  go  again!  He's  out  the  door!  He's  back!  Mary,  above,  was  an  amazing  ex-  ample  of  putting  up  with  this.  Mary's  case  was  extreme.  Frankly,  I'd  never  heard  of  anything  quite  like  it.  This  is  what  she  told  me:  My  husband  admitted  to  me  onour  wedding  night  that  he  had  &quot;a  secret  ambi-  tion&quot;  and  it  was  to  populate  an  entire  state.  He  said  that  he  would  be  a  &quot;good  husband&quot;  to  me  as  long  as  I  would  &quot;turn  a  blind  eve&quot;  to  the  fact  that  he  would  be having  thousands  of  children  by  other  women.  The  code  word  for  our  deal  was  &quot;Nebraska.&quot;  It  got  so  I  couldn't  bear  to  hear  the  name  of  any  Midwestern  state.  [REDACTED],  lunchtime,  dinner,  it  was  al-  ways  time  to  &quot;go  to  Nebraska,&quot;  or  &quot;see  the  Cornhuskers,&quot;  or  some  similar  term.  Con-  ventions  and  business  trips  were  a  strain  for  me-and  apparently  for  him.  And  I'd  beexpected  to  nurse  him  back  to  health!  But  then  he'd  turn  &quot;sweet&quot;  and  tell  me  I  was  the  &quot;only  one,&quot;  and  I'd  believe  him!  I  can't  believe  what  a  fool  I  was!  As  soon  as  he  had  his  strength  again,  he'd  be  back  &quot;in  Omaha,&quot;  or  &quot;going  to  Grand  Island.&quot;  It  was  a  nightmare!  It  went  on  for  over  thirty  years,  and  I  believe  that  a  high  percentage  of  that  state  are  his  children.  I  have  met  some  of  his  &quot;other  women&quot;-how  could  I  not  meet  them?  There  were  hundreds,  thousands  of  them-and  they  all  swear  by  my  husband,  but  to  me  it  was  a  living  day-  dream  or  unreality,  and  it's  still  going  on!  I'm  out  of  my  mind  to  put  up  with  it!  3.  T'ur  No-GoopnIK  Frankly,  this  guy's  just  a  heel.  Don't  expect  him  to  change-yow  change.  You  take  the  crucial  creative  steps  to-  ward  self-involvement  with  yourself  and  other  women  like  yourself  who  have  come  to  terms  with  coming  to  understand  that  he's  not  going  to  change,  and  realize  that,  unlike  you,  he's  condemned  to  the  nightmare  of  constantly  looking  at  and  desiring  women.  You  have  to  face  the  fact  that  he's  just  no  good.  The  fact  is  that  if  you  deny  it  you  just  stay  in  the  same  patterns,  which  seem  to  change  but  don't.  If  you  catch  yourself  talking  to  one  of  these  men-at  abar  or  cocktail  lounge  is  where  they  are-tellhim,  I'm  going  to  change,  and  have  the  satisfaction  of  watching  him  walk  right  into  that  same  old  pattern  of  watching  and  desiring  women  who  are  unable  or  unwilling  to  see  that  he  won't  change.  See  that  guy  over  there?  Watch  him.  Think  he's  going  to  change?  Uh-uh.  I'm  glad  I'm  with  a  person  who  is  able  to  watch  that  strik-  ing  upscale  brunette  begin  to  go  through  the  seme  patterns,  participat-  ing  in  the  delusion  that  he's  going  to  change.  Can  I  buy  you  a  drink  while  we  wait? "