 b"WHEN Bruce  has  brunch,  he  i;  \xe2\x80\x98l  makes  two  trips  to  the  deli,  then  sits  at  his  beat-up  table  and  tells  me,  &quot;There  are  no  happy  couples,  Leah,  only  people  who  haven't  broken  up  yet.&quot;  Then  he  jumps  up  to  check  the  Nicaraguan  drip-grind  decaf  and  runs  back  to  the  deli  and  thinks  up  puns  about  lox.  When  Bruce  makes  brunch,  he  could  invite  Jerry,  but  he  can't  invite  Jerry  if  he  invites  me,  because  since  we  broke  up  I  won't  see  Jerry.  And  Bruce  has  to  give  me  first  dibs  on  all  invitations,  because  I've  known  him  since  before  we  knew  any-  body  else.  Bruce  and  I  met  at  O'Hare,  first  day  in  town  for  both  of  us.  Sohe  doesn't  even  ask  if  he  can  invite  Jerry.  He  knows.  And  if  he  did  ask  I'd  turn  around  and  say,  &quot;If  I  had  a  brunch,  could  I  invite  Susan?&quot;  Only  it's  not  the  same,  because  since  March  Susan's  been  living  in  D.C.  Now  Bruce  is  planning  a  brunch  and  I  ask  if  Sam  is  going.  Bruce  says  no,  that  Sam's  got  that  conference  in  Caro-  lina  on  religion  and  the  left,  and  he'll  be  back  Monday.  Bruce  doesn't  know  about  Sam  and  me.  If  Sam  came  to  brunch,  I  wouldn't  leave,  but  we'd  probably  try  to  ignore  each  other  at  first,  then  talk  a  little  too  loud  and  laugh  a  little  too  hard  and  lecture  a  little  too  much,  and  finally  have  a  tight,  whispered  conversation  in  the   kitchen.  We'd  tell  people  we  were  talk-  ing  strategy.  Most  of  us  met  through  coalitions.  Bruce  knows  Jerry  from  the  fight  against  Contra  aid.  Bruce  was  a  liaison  to  the  Quakers;  Jerry  was  a  liaison  from  the  Quakers.  The  first  time  Jerry  said  he  loved  me  was  at  a  conference  on  the  Sanctuary  Movement.  When  we  broke  off,  I  said,  &quot;You  take  the  Reli-  gious  Task  Force,  I'll  take  Fellowship  of  Reconciliation.&quot;  When  Bruce  and  Susan  broke  up,  they  were  both  work-  ing  on  Harold  [REDACTED]'s  re\xc3\xa9lec-  tion,  out  of  the  North  Side.  Susan  moved  down  to  the  South  Side  head-  quarters.  She  refused  to  help  out  at  the  training  session  for  deputy  voter  regis-  trars,  because  she  knew  Bruce  and  his  friends  would  be  running  it.  She  voted  absentee  so  she  wouldn't  see  anybody  she  knew  at  the  poll.  With  each  breakup,  our  territories  get  smaller  and  smaller.  I  do  solidarity  work  with  Central  American  labor  unions,  but  lately  only  the  ones  in  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED].  When  Jerry  and  I  broke  up,  he  refused  to  give  upEl  Salvador.  He  writes  to  the  F.D.R.  leaders  in  Spanish.  In  his  Spanish  for  Progressives  class  he  met  Brenda.  She  runs  a  Third  World  trad-  ing  outfit  and  used  to  live  with  Ben.  They  met  during  [REDACTED]'s  first  campaign  for  mayor.  They  believe  that  monogamy  is  bourgeois.  I  think  she  and  Jerry  sleep  together  occasionally.  I  don't  think  they  remove  their  woven  friendship  bracelets  for  the  disappeared  in  [REDACTED].  I  don't  take  mine  off  when  I  sleep.  No  one  was  wearing  them  back  when  I  first  met  Bruce.  The  disappeared  weren't  disappeared  yet,  or  we  didn't  know  about  them  yet,  word  hadn't  filtered  back  to  us.  Susan  used  to  wear  hers  even  when  we  went  swim-  ming.  Jill,  my  ex-roommate,  doesn't  have  one.  Jerry  had  his  before  I  met  him.  I  think  some  Buddhists  gave  it  to  him  when  he  protested  at  the  U.N.  In  the  middle  of  the  old  days,  Jerry  and  I  would  have  brunch  and  invite  Bruce,  Susan,  Brenda,  Ben,  Alan,  Jill,  Art,  Crista,  Mark,  Esther,  Liz,  Frank.  We  didn't  hang  out  with  Sam.  Now  Crista  and  Art  are  divorced,  Liz  and  Frank  are  engaged,  Brenda  and  Ben  are  an  occasional.  The  rest  aren't  speaking.  Jerry  has  my  skis  and  skates  and  we  discuss  his  returning  them  on  the  phone,  in  exchange  for  his  socks  and  second-best  tennis  racquet.  He  gets  mad  because  I  won't  talk  about  this  with  him  in  person.  So  I  don't  make  brunch.  NCE  there  was  a  time  when  I  didn't  know  all  of  them,  but  I  hardly  remember  it.  I  get  calls  from  that  time-from  Ajax,  who's  out  in  [REDACTED]  making  bookcases.  I  wait  for  him  to  want  me  back.  He  tells  me  about  his  kids.  I  know  you  can't  erase  kids.  Jerry  doesn't  want  me  back.  Bruce  doesn't  want  Susan  back.  Crista  doesn't  want  Art  back.  Jill  doesn't  want  Alan  back.  Mark  wants  Esther  back  but  is  too  proud  to  say  so.  Brenda  and  Ben  still  talkfree  love.  On  weekends  I  see  Crista  and  Alan  and  Tom  or  Art  and  Jan  and  Esther,  but  never  Crista  andArt  or  Jan  and  Alan.  We  can't  go  to  anyone's  old  favorite  res-  taurants,  so  we  go  to  new  places  no  one  likes  all  that  much.  Before  fund-raisers,  we  make  extensive  calls  to  determine  who'll  be  there.  Riding  on  the  El,  I  think:  I'll  run  into  someone  I  know.  Or:  That  man  over  there  will  fall  for  me.  " b"I  know  that  Jerry  sees  Sam  on  the  El.  They  talk  baseball  and  nerve-gas  legis-  lation.  On  weekends,  Jerry  goes  camping  in  [REDACTED].  He  doesn't  take  anyone  to  his  fund-raising  dinners,  doesn't  men-  tion  my  name  anymore  at  work,  doesn't  have  anyone  to  call  &quot;my  little  June  Bug.&quot;  I  don't  know  why  he  started  calling  me  that.  He'd  write  it  in  letters,  say  it  into  my  answering  machine,  buy  me  bugs  made  of  licorice  or  chocolate.  He'd  send  me  cards  showing  sweet  do-  mestic  scenes  in  color  on  the  front,  and  inside,  on  the  blank  part,  he'd  write,  &quot;To  my  one,  my  only,  Bed  Bug.&quot;  On  weekends,  Icall  Susan  in  Wash-  ington  or  she  calls  me.  We  talk  about  Bruce.  I  don't  tell  her  about  Sam  and  me.  It's  been  three  weeks.  Three  Sat-  urday  nights  ago,  after  the  benefit  at  the  Heartland  Cafe  for  Nicaraguan  medical  aid.  Weather  a  bit  warmer  than  tonight,  even.  We  were  sitting  on  Sam's  porch.  I  said,  &quot;It's  nice  out  here.&quot;  Sam  said,  &quot;You're  pretty.&quot;  He  said,  &quot;You  fascinate  me.&quot;  He  twirled  the  curls  at  the  back  of  my  neck.  He  frightened  me.  Fascination,  I  thought.  Awe.  I  can't  live  with  awe.  But  I  did.I  hung  in.  T'wo  weeks  later,  he  said,  &quot;I  bitoff  too  much,  I  confess.  I  hadn't  expected  ...&quot;  He  said,  &quot;It's  not  the  right  time.&quot;  I  am  not  the  right  person  at  the  right  time.  I  was  not  the  right  person  for  Sam,  Jerry,  or  Jill.  Tom  and  Ajax  were  not  the  right  people  for  me.  Susan  was  not  the  right  person  for  Bruce.  I  am  thirty-two.  Jill  is  twenty-eight.  Bruce  is  thirty-two  and  has  worked  in  three  Presidential  campaigns.  Susan  is  twenty-eight.  Jerry  is  thirty.  Sam  is  thirty-five.  Art  is  forty.  Tom  is  thirty-  five.  Michael  the  sculptor  is  a  month  and  a  day  younger  than  Susan.  Ajax  is  thirty-eight.  Bebe,  his  new  girlfriend,  is  twenty.  BACK  when  my  sister  and  I  were  little,  before  either  of  us  had  ever  had  a  boyfriend,  we  would  ask  each  other,  &quot;If  you  had  to  marry  somebody  now,  who  would  it  be?&quot;  Who  would  it  be?  Would  it  be  Bruce,  Sam,  or  Jerry?  Or  Ajax?  Or  Tom?  Maybe  Sam,  because  it  would  be  a  challenge  to  make  him  grow  to  love  me,  the  way  he  said  he  did  three  Satur-  day  nights  ago.  It's  the  challenge  that  people  accept  when  they  adopt  a  dog  from  the  [REDACTED]  that's  said  to  have  &quot;a  discipline  problem,&quot;  and  they  think:  Not  with  me-I'll  be  the  one  who  tames  him.  Would  it  be  Jerry?  No,  because  he  would  grow  abrupt  again.  He  would  be  impatient  and  refuse  counselling.  Bruce  knew  Jerry  first  but  it  was  Susan  who'd  introduced  me  to  him.  She'd  met  Jerry  through  Michael  the  sculptor,  whom  she'd  met  at  a  New  Year's  Eve  party  put  on  by  Artists  Against  Racism.  When  she  came  back  from  [REDACTED]  to  visit  this  summer,  she  showed  me  the  house  where  the  party  had  been.  Or  so  she  thought-  she  wasn't  sure.  She'd  been  drunk  and  it  was  nine  years  ago.  Every  time  we  passed  a  yellow  Rabbit,  she  said,  &quot;I  wonder  if  that's  the  car  I  sold  when  I  left  here.&quot;  Once  I  was  going  to  be  her  maid  of  honor.  She  was  going  to  marry  Bruce.  She  bought  a  midcalf-length  tea  dress,  pinky-peach,  with  lace.  Then  he  de-  cided  he  didn't  want  anything  for  life,  though  he  still  wanted  to  live  with  her.  She  left  for  six  months,  and  came  back  for  two  years  before  leaving  for  good.  During  that  six  months,  she  went  around  the  world.  One  afternoon  she  was  on  a  boat  in  [REDACTED].  She  turned  and  saw  a  man  sitting  on  a  bench  on  deck,  in  three-quarter  profile.  He  looked  like  Michael-Michael  the  sculptor  from  her  early  twenties,  whom  she'd  met  on  New  Year's  andhad  left  by  May  because  he  was  jealous  of  her  time.  The  man  on  the  bench  was  asleep  and  he  slept  like  Michael-head  thrown  back,  arms  out.  Susan  cried  for  two  hours.  When  she  describes  this  to  me,  her  voice  still  breaks.  "