 b"BRIDGET  was  her  name.  She  played  B  cards  like  a  trooper,  and  her  tipple  was  gin-and-lime.  She  kept  lodgers,  but  only  select  lodgers:  people  who  came  for  the  dapping,  or  maybe  a  barrister  who  would  come  overnight  to  discuss  a  case  with  a  client  or  with  a  solicitor.  The  creamery  manager  was  the  first  guest  to  be  more  or  less  permanent.  After  a  few  months  it  was  clear  he  wasn't  going  to  build  the  bungalow  that  he  had  said  he  would,  and  after  a  few  more  months  he  was  inviting  girls  to  the  house  as  if  it  were  his  own.  Oh  the  stories,  the  stories!  Card  parties,  drink,  and  God  knows  what  else.  No  one  dared  ask  expressly.  Brazen  women  in  finery,  with  nail  varnish  and  lizard  handbags  and  so  forth,  often  came,  sometimes  staying  for  the  weekend.  Bridget  had  devoted  the  sitting  room  to  him  and  his  guests,  choosing  to  say  that  whatever  they  wanted  to  do  was  their  business.  She  worked  in  the  daytime,  in  a  local  shop,  where  she  was  a  bookkeeper.  She  kept  herself  very  much  to  herself-sat  in  her  little  office  with  its  opaque  beaded-glass  panelling,  and  wrote  out  the  bills  and  paid  for  commodities,  and  rarely,  if  ever,  came  out  to  the  shop  to  serve  customers.  'The  owner  and  she  got  on  well.  He  called  herBiddy,  short  for  Bridget,  which  meant,  of  course,  that  they  were  good  friends.  Occasion-  ally  she  would  emerge  from  her  glass  booth  to  congratulate  a  young  mother  on  having  a  baby  or  to  sympathize  with  someone  overa  death,  but  this,  as  peo-  ple  said,  was  a  formality,  a  mere  ges-  ture.  No  one  had  been  invited  to  her  new  pebble-dash  house,  and  the  two  sisters  who  called  unannounced  were  left  standing  on  the  doorstep,  with  some  flimsy  excuse  about  her  dis-  tempering  the  kitchen  ceiling.  She  was  determined  to  remain  aloof,  and  as  if  to  emphasize  the  point  she  had  venetian  blinds  fitted.  You  may  ask,  as  the  postmistress  had  asked-the  postmistress  her  sworn  en-  emy-&quot;Why  have  venetian  blinds  drawn  at  all  times,  winter  and  summer,  daylight  and  dark?  What  is  Bridget  trying  to  hide?&quot;  What  went  on  there  at  night,  after  she  strolled  home,  carrying  a  few  tasties  that  the  owner  of  the  shop  had  given  her,  such  as  slices  of  bacon  or  tins  of  salmon?  It  was  rumored  that  she  changed  from  her  dark  shop  overall  into  brighter  clothes.  A  child  had  seen  her  carrying  in  a  scuttle  of  coal.  So  there  was  a  fire  in  the  parlor,  people  were  heard  to  say.  PARTIES  began  to  take  place,  and  many  a  night  a  strange  car  or  two,  or  even  three,  would  park  outside  her  driveway  and  remain  there  till  well  near  dawn.  Often  people  were  heard  emerging,  singing  &quot;She'll  be  comin'  'round  the  mountain  when  she  comes,  when  she  comes.&quot;  Such  frivolities  in-  evitably  lead  to  scandals,  and  there  came  one  that  stunned  the  parish.  A  priest  died  in  the  house.  He  was  not  a  local  priest  but  had  arrived  in  one  of  those  strange  cars  with  strange  regis-  tration  numbers.  The  story  was  that  he  went  up  to  the  bathroom,  missed  a  step  as  he  came  out,  and  then,  of  course-it  could  happen  to  anyone-tripped  and  fell.  He  fell  all  the  way  down  the  fifteen  steps  of  stairs,  smashed  his  head  on  the  grandfather  clock  that  was  at  the  bottom,  and  lay  unconscious  on  the  floor.  The  commotion  was  something  terrible,  as  Rita,  aneighbor,  reported.  There  were  screams  from  inside  the  house.  The  creamery  manager,  it  seems,  staggered  to  his  car,  but  was  too  inebriated  to  even  start  the  engine;  then  a  young  lady  followed,  drove  off,  and  shortly  after  the  local  curate  ar-  rived  at  the  house  with  the  viaticum.  An  hour  later,  the  ambulance  took  the  priest  to  the  hospital,  but  he  was  al-  ready  dead.  Bridget  put  a  brave  face  on  it.  In-  stead  of  hiding  her  understandable  guilt,  she  acknowledged  it.  She  spoke  over  and  over  again  of  the  fatal  night,  the  fun  that  had  preceded  the  tragedy,  the  priest,  not  touching  a  drop,  re-  galing  them  with  the  most  wonderful  account  of  being  admitted  to  the  Vati-  can-not  for  an  audience,  as  he  had  thought,  but  to  see  the  treasures.  &quot;Thousands  of  pounds'  worth  of  treasures  ...  thousands  of  pounds'  worth  of  treasures!&quot;  he  had  apparently  said  as  he  described  a  picture  or  a  sculptureor  a  chalice  orvestments.  Then  Bridget  would  goon  to  describe  how  they  had  all  playeda  game  of  forty-five  and  before  they  knew  where  they  were  it  was  three  in  the  morning  and  Father  So-and-So  rose  to  return  home,  going  upstairs  first.  He  had  had,  as  she  said,  glass  after  glass  of  lemon-  ade.  Then  the  terrible  thud,  and  their  not  believing  what  it  was,  and  the  creamery  manager  getting  up  from  the  table  and  going  out  to  the  hall,  and  then  a  girl  going  out,  and  then  the  screams.  Bridget  made  it  known  that  she  would  never  forgive  herselffor  not  having  had  a  strongerbulb  on  the  landing.  At  the  High  Mass  for  the  priest's  remains,  she  wore  a  long  black  lace  thing,  which  she  had  not  taken  out  since  herbeloved  husband  had  died.  Her  husband  had  been  drowned  years  before,  which  is  why  she  was  generally  known  as  the  Widow.  They  had  been  married  only  a  few  months  and  were  lovebirds.  They  had  lived  in  another  house  then-a  little  house  with  a  porch  that  caught  the  sun,  where  they  grew  geraniums  and  bego-  nias  and  even  a  few  tomatoes.  Her  despair  at  his  death  was  so  terrible  it  was  legendary.  Her  roar,  when  the  newswas  broken  to  her,  rent  the  par-  ish,  and  was  said  to  have  been  heard  in  distant  parishes.  Babies  in  their  cots  heard  it,  as  did  old  people  who  were  deaf  and  sitting  beside  the  fire,  as  did  the  men  working  out  in  the  fields.  When  she  was  told  that  her  husband  had  drowned,  she  would  not  believe  it:  her  husband  was  not  dead;  he  was  a  strong  swimmer;  he  swam  down  at  the  docks  every  evening  of  his  life  before  his  tea.  She  rebelled  by  roaring.  She  roared  all  that  evening  and  all  that  night.  Nobody  in  the  village  could  sleep.  When  they  found  his  body  in  the  morning  with  reeds  matted  around  it,  her  cries  reached  a  gargantuan  pitch.  She  couldnot  be  let  to  go  to  thechapel.  Women  held  her  down  to  keep  her  from  going  berserk.  Then,  two  days  after  he  was  buried,  when  the  cattle  began  to  trample  over  " b"the  grave  and  treat  it  as  any  old  grave,  shestopped  her  keening.  Soon  after,  she  put  on  a  perfectly  calm,  cheer-  ful,  resigned  countenance.  She  told  everyone  that  she  was  a  busy  woman  now  and  had  much  to  do.  Shehad  to  write  to  thank  all  the  mourners,  and  thank  the  priests  who  officiated  at  the  High  Mass,  and  then  decide  what  to  do  about  her  husband's  clothes.  Above  all,  she  was  determined  to  sell  her  house.  She  was  ad-  vised  against  it,  but  noth-  ing  would  deter  her.  That  house  was  for  Bill  and  her-  self-&quot;Darling  Bill,&quot;  as  she  called  him-and  only  by  leaving  it  would  the  memory,  the  inviolate  mem-  ory,  of  their  mornings  and  their  evenings  and  their  nights  and  their  t\xc3\xa9te-a-t\xc3\xa9tes  remain  intact.  She  sold  the  house  easily,  though  far  too  cheaply,  and  went  back  up  the  country  to  live  with  her  own  folks-a  brother  and  a  deaf-mute  sister.  No  one  in  the  vil-  lage  heard  of  her  until  a  few  years  later,  when  her  brother  died  and  her  sister  went  to  an  institution.  Unable  to  manage  the  tillage  and  foddering,  Bridget  sold  the  farm  and  moved  back  to  the  town.  She  was  a  changed  woman  when  she  came  back-very  much  more  in  charge  of  herself.  Very  much  more  the  toff,  as  people  said.  She  gother  job  as  a  bookkeeper  in  the  shop  and  started  to  build  a  house,  and  while  it  was  being  built  many  conjectured  that  she  had  a  second  husband  in  mind.  There  were  rumors  about  bachelors  seen  talking  to  her,  and  especially  one  who  came  from  [REDACTED]  and  took  her  to  the  dog  track  in  Limerick  a  few  Saturday  nights  in  a  row  andbought  her  gins.  The  news  of  her  drinking  soon  spread,  and  the  ver-  dict  was  that  she  could  bend  the  elbow  with  any  man.  Hence,  being  installed  in  her  new  house  was  not  the  neigh-  borly  affair  it  might  have  been.  There  was  no  housewarming,  for  instance;  no  little  gifts  of  cream  or  homemade  black  puddings  or  porter  cake;  no  good-luck  horseshoe  on  her  door.  In  short,  the  people  ostracized  her.  She  seemed  not  to  mind,  having  always  kept  to  herself  anyway.  She  had  a  good  wardrobe,  she  had  a  good  job,  and  as  soon  as  she  start-  ed  to  keep  select  boarders-only  two,  or  at  the  most  three-everybody  re-  marked  that  she  was  getting  above  her-  self.  Her  house  was  sarcastically  called  the  Pleasure  Dome,  and  sometimes,  more  maliciously,  she  was  coupled  with  the  song  &quot;Biddy  the  Whore,  who  lived  in  a  hotel  without  any  door.&quot;  Her  first  two  guests  were  strangers  -men  who  were  doing  some  survey  for  the  land  commission,  and  whom  all  the  farmers  suspected  of  being  meddle-  some.  They  and  Bridget  became  the  best  of  friends-sat  outside  on  deck  chairs  and  were  heard  laughing;  went  to  Mass  together,  the  last  Mass  on  Sundays;  and  in  the  evening  imbibed,  either  at  home  or  in  the  hotel.  When  they  left,  the  creamery  manager  ar-  rived-a  big  man  with  wide  shoulders  and  a  large,  reddish  face.  He  was  volu-  ble,  affectionate.  He  touched  people's  lapels,  particularly  women's,  and  he  was  not  shy  about  asking  for  a  kiss.  A  few  of  the  girls  professed  to  have  spurned  him.  The  old  maids,  who  mis-  trusted  him,  watched  him  when  he  left  the  creamery  at  half  past  five  in  the  evening  tosee  if  he  would  go  straight  tohis  lodgings  or  across  to  the  town  to  have  a  pint  or  two.  They  would  lie  in wait  behind  walls,  or  behind  the  win-  dows  of  their  sitting  rooms.  He  rarely  mentioned  Bridget  by  name  but  re-  ferred  to  her  as  the  Landlady,  often  adding  how  saucy  she  was,  and  what  a  terrific  cook.  He  was  especially  fond  of  her  lamb  stew,  which,  as  people  said,  was  really  mutton  stew.  SOON  the  creamery  manager,  whose  name  was  Michael,  acquired  a  steady  girlfriend  called  Mea.  Mea  was  a  bank  clerk  from  the  city,  and  she  came  in  her  car  at  weekends  and  stayed  two  nights.  He  would  splash  himself  with  eau  de  cologne  on  the  evenings  she  was  expected,  and  was  to  be  seen  traipsing  in  front  of  the  house,  so  eager  was  he  to  see  her.  They  never  kissed  on  the  steps  but  always  went  inside  and  left  some  of  the  local  snoopers,  espe-  cially  the  women,  demented  with  curi-  osity  as  to  what  happened  next.  She  could,  as  Bridget  told  the  shopkeeper,  who  then  told  it  to  everyone  else,  twist  Michael  around  her  little  finger.  She  was  subject,  it  seemed,  to  the  most  fitful  moods-sometimes  bright  as  a  hum-  mingbird,  othertimes  professing  to  have  a  headache  or  a  sinus  or  a  stomach  ache,  and  refusing  even  to  speak  to  him.  Once,  she  locked  herself  in  her  " b"bedroom  and  did  not  come  out  for  the  whole  evening.  She  ate  like  a  bird,  bleached  her  hair  with  egg  yolk  and  lemon,  and  cuta  great  dash  at  Mass  or  devotions,  always  managing  to  have  a  different  hat  or  a  different  head  scarf  each  Sunday.  It  was  noticed  that  she  hardly  prayed  at  all-that  she  looked  around,  summing  up  the  people,  sneer-  ing  at  them-and  that  she  was  not  certain  when  were  the  times  to  stand  and  when  were  the  times  to  kneel,  but  would  look  around  to  gauge  what  others  were  doing.  &quot;Ah,  it's  her  sweet  mystery  ..  .  her  sweet  mystery,&quot;  Michael  had  told  Bridget,  who  had  told  the  shopkeeper,  who  had,  of  course,  told  others.  Before  long,  Mea  and  Michael  were  engaged,  and  Mea  was  coming  not  only  two  nights  a  week  but  three  nights  a  week,  and  driving  all  around  with  him  tosee  if  there  were  any  uninhabited  houses  or  bungalows,  because  of  course  they  would  want  their  own  place.  Each  week,  as  well,  she  brought  some  item  of  furniture,  usually  something  bulky-a  mirror  or  a  wardrobe  or  a  whatnot  or  a  bureau-and  he  was  heard  to  say  that  she  was  furniture  mad.  In  jest  he  would  ask  the  men  why  he  was  putting  a  rope  around  his  neck.  They  were  to  be  married  in  June,  but  one  evening  early  in  May  there  was  a  rift.  Michael  broke  it  off.  It  happened  at  the  hotel,  just  as  the  crowdwas  wishing  them  well  and  making  innu-  endos  about  the  patterof  little  feet.  Michael  was  very  drunk-his  drinking  had  got  heavy  over  the  past  few  weeks  -and  suddenly  he  turned  to  Mea  and  said,  very  candidly  and  almost  tear-  fully,  that  he  could  not  go  through  with  it.  She  was  to  keep  the  ring;  he  wanted  everything  to  end  in  good  faith.  She  slapped  him,  there  and  then,  three  times  on  the  cheek  in  front  of  everyone.  &quot;How  dare  you,&quot;  she  said  with  the  acerbity  of  a  governess,  and  then  she  ran  out  and  he  followed,  and  soon  they  drove  off  down  the  [REDACTED]  Road-no  doubt  to  patch  things  up,  as  people  said.  But  Michael  was  adamant.  The  engagement  was  broken  off.  She  left  that  night,  and  Michael  hid  for  three  days.  He  went  back  to  the  creamery,  drawn  and  unshaven,  and  on  that  Friday  he  learned  of  her  suit  for  breach  of  promise  by  reading  of  it  in  the  weekly  newspaper.  There  were  photos  of  him  and  Mea,  mention  of  some  little  lovey-dovey  exchanges,  and even  a  photo  of  Bridget,  who  Mea  said  .  had  had  too  much  influence  over  him  and  was  probably  responsible  for  the  rift.  Mea  also  talked  about  her  broken  heart,  the  several  plans  she  had  made,  the  house  that  she  envisaged,  the  little  rose  garden,  then  discussed  her  bottom  drawer,  which  was  full  of  linen  and  lavender  sachets  and  so  on.  Above  all,  she  bemoaned  the  fact  that  her  roman-  tic  future  with  any  other  man  was  out  of  the  question;  in  short,  that  her  life  was  destroyed.  Michael  received  a  so-  licitor's  letter,  consulted  his  local  solic-  itor,  and  was  said  to  have  paid  her  a  hefty  compensation.  Then  he  went  on  the  batter  for  a  fewweeks  and  was  carted  to  the  Cistercian  monastery,  and  finally  came  home  looking  thinner  and  much  more  subdued.  &quot;A  gold-digger,  a  gold-digger,  that's  what  she  [REDACTED];  Bridget  would  say  whenever  Mea's  name  was  mentioned,  and  in  time  the  matter  was  forgotten.  IT  was  perceived-first  by  the  post-  mistress,  then  by  another  woman,  who  spoke  about  it  to  several  others-  that  Bridget  and  the  creamery  manager  were  flirting  openly.  Soon  after,  they  were  seen  holding  hands  as  they  took  a  walk  down  the  Chapel  Road  after  Bene-  diction.  They  had  lingered  in  the  chapel,  allowing  the  others  to  leave.  It  was  the  sacristan  who  saw  them,  and  ran  and  told  it  in  the  town,  once  she  had  recovered  from  her  fright.  People  asked  if  she  was  certain,  or  if  she  had  not  imagined  it.  &quot;That  I  may  drop  dead  if  it's  not  true,&quot;  she  said,  putting  her  hand  to  the  gray  wool  cardigan  that  covered  her  sunken  bosom.  The  inappropriateness  of  this  was  more  than  they  could  stomach.  After  all,  she  was  a  widow,  and  she  was  a  woman  in  her  forties,  who  ought  to  know  better.  Neighbors  began  to  watch  more  carefully,  especially  at  night,  to  see  how  many  lights  went  on  in  the  upstairs  rooms-to  see  if  they  had  sep-  arate  bedrooms  or  were  living  in  mor-  tal  sin.  The  less  censorious  said  it  was  a  flash  in  the  pan  and  soon  he  would  have  another  beauty  in  tow,  so  that  all,  all  were  flabbergasted  the  morning  Bridget  stood  in  the  doorway  of  the  shop  and  announced  her  engagement.  To  prove  it,  a  lozenge  of  blue  shim-  mered  on  her  finger,  and  her  eyes  were  dancing  as  the  people  gaped  at  her.  Before  long,  Bridget  bought  a  car,  and  Michael  gave  her  driving  lessons  on  the  Dock  Road,  the  very  road  where  her  husband  hadwalked  to  his  death.  Michael  stopped  soliciting  young  girls,  even  the  young  buttermaker  in  the  creamery,  and  told  strangers  how  happy  hewas,  and  that  up  to  now  all  the  women  he  had  known  were  mere  bonbons,  and  that  this  was  It.  Her  happiness  was  too  much  for  " b"   people  to  take;  they  called  her  a  hussy,  they  predicted  another  breach  of  prom-  ise,  they  waited  for  the  downfall.  Some  of  the  older  women  went  to  the  parish  priest  about  it,  but  when  they  arrived  the  parish  priest  was  in  such  a  grump  about  the  contributions  toward  a  new  altar  that  he  told  them  to  pull  their  socks  up  and  try  to  raise  money  by  selling  cakes  and  jellies  and  things  at  a  bazaar.  He  suspected  why  they  had  come,  because  the  creamery  manager  had  gone  to  him  alone,  and  stayed  an  hour,  and  no  doubt  gave  him  a  substan-  tial  offering  for  Masses.  To  put  a  good  complexion  on  the  engagement  period,  a  youngster  was  brought  to  Bridget's  house  from  the  country,  a  boy  so  daft  that  he  dug  up  the  tubers  of  the  irises  in  mistake  for  onions-in  short,  no  chaperon.  They  were  to  be  married  in  December,  which  left  Bridget  two  months  to  pack  up  her  job  and  prepare  her  trousseau.  She  was  always  to  beseen  flying  in  her  red  car  now,  a  menace  to  pedestrians  and  cattle  that  strayed  on  the  roadside.  To  ingra-  tiate  herself,  as  they  said,  she  offered  people  lifts  to  the  city,  or  offered  to  do  errands  for  them.  Some,  being  weak,  accepted  these  favors,  but  not  the  die-  hards.  A  few  of  the  men,  it  is  true,  praised  her,  said  what  spunk  she  had.  She  was  much  older  thanMichael,  and,  moreover,  she  had  got  him  off  the  booze;  heonly  drank  wine  now  -table  wine.  A  week  before  the  wedding,  the  pair  went  to  the  local  pub,  which  they  had  got  out  of  the  habit  of  doing,  and  stood  drinks  to  everyone.  The  shopkeeper,  proposing  the  toast,  said  he  knew  that  Biddy  and  Michael  had  everyone's  blessing.  People  clapped,  then  someone  sang.  Then  Biddy,  being  a  little  tipsy,  tapped  her  glass  with  her  engagement  stone  and  said  she  was  going  to  give  a  little  recitation.  Without  further  ado,  she  stood  up,  smiled  that  sort  of  urchin  smile  of  hers,  ran  her  tongue  over  her  lips,  another  habit,  and  recited  a  poem  entitled  &quot;People  Will  Talk.&quot;  It  was  a  lunge  at  all  those  mischievous,  prurient  people  who  begrudged  her  her  little  flourish.  It  may  have  been-indeed,  many  people  said  that  it  was-this  audacious  provocation  that  wreaked  the  havoc  of  the  next  weeks.  Had  she  confided  in  a  few  local  women,  she  might  have  been  saved,  butshe  did  not  confide;  she  stood  aloof  with  her  man,  her  eyes  gleaming,  her  happiness  as-  sured.  IT  never  came  to  light  who  exactly  had  begun  it,  but  suddenly  the  word  went  round,  the  skeleton  that  had  been  lurking  for  years-that  her  husband  had  not  drowned  by  accident,  he  had  taken  his  own  life.  His  predicament,  it  was  said,  was  so  grinding  that  he  saw  no  way  out  of  it.  He  went  down  to  the  docks  that  evening,  after  yet  another  hideous  row  with  her,  pen  and  paper  in  his  pocket,  and  wrote  his  farewell  note.  It  was  in  his  trousers  pocket  before  they  handed  it  to  her.  Why  else  had  she  roared  for  three  days,  they  asked,  and  why  was  she  unfit  to  attend  her  own  husband's  funeral  or  the  High  Mass?  Why  else  did  she  recover  so  soon  but  that  she  was  a  wicked,  heartless  harlot?  The  creamery  manager,  they  pre-  dicted,  would  be  a  scapegoat  once  the  marriage  vows  were  exchanged.  First  one  person  whispered  it,  then  another,  and  then  another;  the  story  slipped  from  house  to  house,  from  mouth  to  mouth,  and  before  long  it  reached  Bridget's  appalled  ears.  As  if  that  were  not  shock  enough,  she  received  one  morning  an  anonymous  letter  saying  that  her  husband-to-be  would  know  of  her  skeleton  shortly.  She  flung  the  let-  ter  into  the  stove,  then  tried  in  vain  to  retrieve  it.  Luckily,  Michael  was  still  upstairs,  asleep  in  his  own  room.  It  was  then  that  she  made  her  first  mistake-  she  ran  around  trying  to  bribe  people,  asking  them  not  to  mention  this  terri-  ble  rumor,  not  to  tell  the  creamery  manager,  for  God's  sake  not  to  tell.  The  more  she  tried  to  quash  the  talk,  the  more  people  concluded  her  guilt.  She  lost  all  composure.  She  could  be  seen  in  her  bare  feet  or  in  her  night-  gown  running  up  the  road  to  meet  the  postman,  to  ward  off  any  other  dread-  ful  bulletins.  After  that  morning,  she  dared  not  let  Michael  goanywhere  alone,  in  case  someone  told  him.  She  knew,  or  at  least  clung  to  the  belief,  that  no  one  at  work  would  risk  telling  him,  for  fear  of  being  fired  on  the  spot.  But  in  the  street  or  on  the  way  to  Mass  or  at  the  pub-  these  were  the  danger  zones,  and  for  weeks  she  followed  him  everywhere,  so  that  he  began  to  show  signs  of  impa-  tience  and  saidthat  she  was  a  hairy  " b"Molly,  clinging  to  him.  Her  looks,  which  had  improved  since  the  engage-  ment,  took  a  turn  for  the  worse,  and  she  was  what  she  once  had  been-a  scraggy  older  woman,  with  thin  hair  and  skin  that  was  much  too  yellow.  Michael  saw  that  she  was  dis-  traught,  but  did  not  understand  it.  It  seems  he  told  the  young  buttermaker  that  his  missus  had  got  the  jitters  and  the  sooner  they  got  married  the  better.  Even  while  he  was  saying  this,  his  missus-to-be  was  grasping  at  any  straw.  She  confided  in  the  shopkeeper,  who  advised  her  to  tell  Michael,  but  she  broke  down  and  even  flared  up,  mistrusting  her  one  friend.  &quot;Why  not  take  the  bull  by  the  horns  and  tell  him  straight  out?&quot;&quot;  he  had  said.  She  couldn't.  He  would  jilt  her.  Had  he  not  already  jilted  a  younger  and  comelier  girl,  and  was  she,  Bridget,  not  haunted  by  that  same  prospect?  It  was  then  that  she  remembered  the  old  woman  who  had  lived  across  the  road  from  her  husbandand  herself  and  had  later  moved  back  to  the  country.  She  would  go  tofind  this  woman,  who  would  swear  that  she  had  never  heard  a  voice  raised,  and  that  in  fact  Bridget  and  her  ect  mae  first  husband  used  to  sit  in  the  sun  porch  in  the  evening,  among  the  gera-  niums  and  the  begonias,  whispering,  holding  hands,  canoodling.  HEN  a  little  respite  came.  Michael  decided  to  go  home  to  his  own  folks  for  a  week,  and  that  was  a  godsend.  They  would  then  meet  in  Limerick,  with  a  small  sprinkling  of  relatives,  and  there  they  would  be  mar-  ried  in  the  Augustinian  church.  One  of  the  friars  was  a  friend  of  Michael's,  and  he  had  already  made  the  arrange-  ments.  Because  of  the  breach-of-prom-  ise  episode,  it  was  going  to  bea  very  hushed-up  affair.  Before  leaving,  Michael  tackled  her.  He  sat  her  in  the  little  armchair  by  the  kitchen  stove,  where  they  had  often,  so  often,  joked  and  cuddled.  He  asked  her  if  perhaps  she  was  having  sec-  ond  thoughts  about  things,  if  perhaps  she  did  not  love  him.  Her  eyes  filled  up  with  tears.  She  said,  &quot;No,  no,  Michael  .  ..  no.&quot;  She  was  so  in  love,  she  confessed,  that  she  was  afraid  that  it  would  go  wrong.  Then  he  kissed  her  and  reproved  her  for  being  a  daft  little  hen  of  a  woman,  and  they  waltzed around  the  kitchen,  promising  things  that  they  would  do  when  they  were  married,  like  putting  a  skylight  in  the  kitchen,  and  getting  a  new  range  so  that  she  did  not  have  to  dirty  her  fingers  with  the  ashes  and  clinkers.  He  loved  her  little  hands,  he  said,  and  he  kissed  them.  &quot;Num,  num,&quot;  he  said,  as  if  he  were  eating  them,  as  if  they  were  jam  tarts.  As  she  told  the  shopkeeper  later,  they  had  a  blissful  farewell.  He  tried  to  coax  out  of  her  what  she  was  planning  to  wear  at  the  wedding,  but  she  sang  dumb.  &quot;I  sang  dumb,&quot;  she  said,  and  described  how  she  ran  upstairs  to  get  the  old  fox  collar,  with  its  little  foxy  snout  and  beady  eyes,  and  threatened  him  with  it,  went  &quot;Yap,  yap,  yap.&quot;  They  played  hide-and-seek,  they  laughed,  they  teased  one  another,  but  onno  account  would  she  allow  him  into  the  room  where  her  trousseau  was  stored-her  voile  gown  and  her  satin  shoes,  and  her  piles  of  new  undies,  and  the  fleecy  bed  jacket.  Their  farewell  was  so  tender  that  Michael  even  de-  bated  if  he  should  cancel  his  journey.  &quot;God  blast  it,  I'm  over  twenty-one,&quot;  he  said.  But  she  persuaded  him  to  go,  insisted.  She  knew  it  was  essen-  tial  that  he  be  away  from  this  place,  where  any  mischief-maker  could  say,  &quot;I  believe  your  intend-  edwife  drove  her  first  husband  to  his  death.&quot;  She  could  not  risk  it.  There  was  something  about  Michael,  although  she  never  told  him  this,  that  reminded  her  of  her  first  husband:  They  were  both  childlike  and  affection,  ate,  and  they  both  had  gruff  tempers  but  were  quick  to  apol-  ogize-to  lay  a  bar  of  chocolate  or  a  gift  on  the  pillow  as  an  ap-  peasement.  She  loved  them  in  much  the  same  way-the  same  gushing,  bubbly,  childish  way  that  she  had  loved  at  twenty-  and,  miraculously,  her  love  was  reciprocated.  HE  day  after  he  left,  Brid-  get  set  out  to  see  the  old  woman.  She  was  cheerful  in  the  town  when  she  stopped  to  buy  petrol.  She  even  told  the  young  attendant  that  she  was  thinking  of  throwing  a  party,  and  asked  if  he  would  like  to  come.  &quot;Deffo&quot;  was  what  he  claimed  to  have  said.  No  one  of  usever  knew  what  " b"ensued  with  the  old  wom-  an,  because  it  was  on  the  way  back  that  it  hap-  pened.  It  was  a  treacher-     ous  bit  of  road,  always     known  to  be;  it  twisted,  then  straightened,  then  forked  suddenly  and  ridged  under  a  thick  can-  opy  of  beech  trees.  Lorries  and  cars  had  crashed  thereso  often  that  people  said  there  was  a  curse  on  that  stretch.  A  witch  had  once  lived  nearby  -a  witch  who  defied  the  hier-  archy  and  plied  strange  pagan  cures.  People  wondered  if  the  aftermath  of  this  witch  was  not  the  cause  of  all  these  disas-  ters,  and  holy  water  had  been  sprinkled  there  many  a  time  by  the  priests.  It  was  after  dark  when  the  accident  happened.  Bridget  had  gone  to  the  old  woman,  and  after-  ward  had  gone  to  a  hotel  in  the  nearest  town  and  treated  herself  to  a  drink.  It  may  have  been  that  she  went  to  the  hotel  to  cele-  brate,  to  taste  for  the  first  time  the  joy,as  well  as  the  certainty,  of  her  future.  Maybe  the  old  woman  had  said,  &quot;I'll  tell  them  how  happy  youand  Bill  were,&quot;  or  had  cried,  re-  membering  that  other  time,  when  she  was  not  old,  when  she  did  not  have  cataracts  in  her  eyes,  when  the  nice  young  couple  invited  her  across  the  road  for  a  glass  of  stout  or  a  cup  of  tea.  Or  maybe  the  old  woman  had  forgotten  almost  everything  and  just  held  her  hand  and  stared.  Whatever  took  place  was  never  known,  but  in  the  hotel  where  Bridget  drank  the  gin-  and-lime  andbought  the  crisps  she  chattered  with  the  owner  and  asked  him  for  his  card,  saying  that  she  would  be  coming  back  there  with  her  husband  for  a  dinner.  The  locality,  she  said,  was  lucky  for  her,  and  she  felt  she  owed  it  a  little  recompense.  Half  an  hour  later,  she  was  around  a  tree,  the  car  up  on  its  hind  legs,  like  an  animal,  her  face  on  the  dashboard,  askew,  her  eyes  wide  open.  Some  workmen  who  had  been  tar-  ring  the  road  heard  the  screech  of  the  crash,  and  ran  from  a  little  caravan  where  they  were  cooking  supper.  None  of  them  knew  her.  T'wo  stayed  while  the  third  went  to  the  lodge  of  a  big  house  to  ask  to  use  the  telephone.  The  woman  in  the  gate  lodge  was  a  bit  strange  and  did  not  want  to  let  them  in,  so  they  had  to  go  up  to  the  big  house,  and  quite  a  long  time  passed  before  the  ambulanceand  the  guards  came.  But  the  consensus  was  that  she  had  died  on  the  spot.  She  was  brought  back  to  the  local  hospital,  where  a  young  nurse  laid  her  out  in  white.  The  mourners  who  came  the  next  day  were  surprised,  even  aghast,  that  her  face  was  so  beau-  tifully  smooth,without  cuts  or  gashes.  It  was  makeup,  they  claimed,  perfect  makeup,  and  what  a  scandalous  thing  to  adorn  a  corpse.  Michael  knelt  beside  her  and  roared  intemperately,  as  she  had  once  roared,  leaving  no  one  in  doubt  that  he  loved  her  passionately.  At  the  grave  he  tried  to  talkto  her,  tried  to  stop  them  from  lowering  the  coffin.  He  knew  every-  thing  now;  he  knew  her  plight  and  was  helpless  to  do  anything  about  it.  She  had  quite  a  large  funeral,  but  beneath  the  prayers  and  the  murmurs  were  the  whispers  of  how  drunk  she  had  been  when  she  got  into  that  car.  They  said  her  face  had  been  disfigured,  but  that  some  silly  nurse  had  made  her  look  presentable,  had  doctored  the  truth,  sent  her  to  her  Maker  with  this  mon-  strous  camouflage-some  chit  of  a  nurse,  as  wayward  as  Bridget  herself  had  been. "