 b"FAMILIES  with  teen-age  su-  Ficidals  were  Jorie's  specialty.  She  had  ways  of  working  with  them;  she  functioned  like  a  conduit,  channel-  ling  information  from  parents  to  chil-  dren  and  back,  but  she  enhanced  the  information  slightly  in  its  passage,  so  that  when  it  reached  the  offending  generation  it  could  be  heard  and  seen  in  the  best  possible  light.  Her  favorite  device,  after  listening  to  both  sides  and  arriving  at  a  stalemate,  was  to  conclude  that  this  daughter  so  respected  the  stated  and  unstated  laws  of  the  parents  that,  unable  to  honor  those  standards  in  her  life,  she  felt  she  had  no  alterna-  tive  but  to  honor  them  with  her  death.  It  was  in  some  ways  a  tribute.  Quietly  offered  by  Jorie,  this  interpretation  sent  some  of  the  hardest  families  crumbling,  brought  soft  tearsto  the  most  rigid  of  patriarchs.  Love-love  that  had  been  driven  into  hiding-came  dancing  out  toward  its  object,  eager  and  nimble,  free  at  last,  That  was  when  it  worked.  Sometimes  the  love  included  Jorie;  other  times  the  family  developed  a  post-crisis  loathing  for  her.  She  was  evidence  of  the  painful  past  which  they  never  wanted  to  see  again.  She  felt  like   the  bloody  clothes  of  an  accident  vic-  tim  left  behind  for  the  hospital  to  dis-  card.  What  do  I  want  from  them,  she  asked  herself-a4  pat  on  the  head?  A  plaque?  She  had  accepted  an  invitation  to  speak  on  teen-agers  at  the  Suicide  Con-  ference  in  [REDACTED].  The  incidence  there  was  especially  high  among  In-  dian  and  Pakistani  teens,  Romeo  and  Juliet  couples.  They  were  children  of  MTV,  falling  in  love,  experimenting  with  sex,  yet  they  were  expected  to  submit  to  arranged  marriages.  With  this  kind  of  couple,  Jorie's  device  worked  well.  She  had  been  too  busy  to  accept  other  similar  invitations,  but  this  one  had  been  issued  for  June,  when  her  time  would  be  her  own.  It  was  to  be  an  easy,  unfettered  summer.  Her  sons  -from  her  first  marriage-and  her  stepdaughters  would  all  be  away  on  programs  and  trips,  and  she  had  asked  for  and  been  given  leave  from  her  part-  time  job  as  a  social  worker  at  New  York  Hospital.  Until  the  conference  had  come  up,  she  and  her  husband,  Paul,  had  considered  visiting  members  of  her  family-nieces  in  [REDACTED],  par-  ents  in  Phoenix,  a  brother,  Jan,  in  [REDACTED].  When  the  [REDACTED]  dates  were  confirmed,  they  changed  their  plans.  Paul  would  fly  out  from  New  York  to  join  her  at  the  conference,  and  they  would  then  take  the  train  to  Lake  Louise.  It  made  sense.  Arriving  in  her  hotel  room  at  mid-  night,  Jorie  read  and  reread  the  notes  from  the  case  studyshe  would  be  dis-  cussing.  It  concerned  two  sisters,  twenty-seven  and  nineteen.  The  older  was  physically  handicapped  and  had  been  the  exclusive  focus  of  the  parents  until  a  series  of  suicide  gestures  by  the  younger.  Jorie  was  trying  to  plan  pauses  and  inflections  for  the  maximum  in  dramatic  effect.  Yes,  she  realized  as  she  dozed  off,  I  do  want  aplaque.  The  telephone  rang  at  ten  after  six  -her  wakeup  call,  she  thought-but  the  angry  voice  belonged  to  Theo,  her  older  brother,  calling  long-distance  from  [REDACTED].  Janhad  died  in  the  night.  He  had  contracted  AIDS  seven  months  earlier  and  had  not  let  anyone  in  the  family  know.  Jan's  lover,  Hank,  was  following  instructions:  Tell  Theo,  get  Theo  to  call  Jorie,  have  Jorie  call  Mom  and  Dad.  Jan  wanted  to  be  buried  in  Bloomington,  [REDACTED],  where  the  family  had  lived  when  he  was  a  boy.  Jorie's  hand  felt  fused  to  the  re-  ceiver  as  she  hung  up.  She  couldn't  lift  it  again  to  do  what  Jan  had  asked  her  to  do.  Her  reflection  in  the  hotel  mirror-lips  stoic,  eyes  betrayed-  remained  her  only  memory  of  [REDACTED].  NCE  her  ticket  to  Bloomington  was  in  hand  and  her  lug-  gage  was  gliding  away  from  her  on  the  con-  veyor  belt,  she  scanned  the  terminal  for  a  pay  phone.  There  were  five  booths  in  a  row,  all  empty.  She  felt  the  need  of  something  well  made  and  long-lasting  beneath  her-a  re-  ligious  foundation,  philosophical  under-  pinnings.  Instead  of  calling  Phoenix,  she  called  Paul.  Her  voice  came  out  a  whisper  with  a  hint  of  pitch-  " b"she  was  holding  back  chaos.  He  did  all  the  work.  &quot;Jorie.  Theo  told  you?&quot;  (\xe2\x80\x98YeS-))  &quot;Do  you  want  to  talk  about  it?&quot;  \xe2\x80\x98(N0&quot;\xe2\x80\x99  &quot;Did  you  call  your  folks?&quot;  (\xe2\x80\x98No.,\xe2\x80\x99  &quot;Do  you  want  me  to?&quot;  (\xe2\x80\x98YeS-ii  &quot;Where  are  you'&quot;  &quot;In  the  airport.&quot;  &quot;I'mon  my  way.  See  you  in  Bloomington.&quot;  FROM  her  seat  by  the  win-  dow,  in  the  first  row  in  coach,  Jorie  watched  the  stewardess  serve  a  beautiful  golden  cocktail  to  a  man  just  ahead  of  her  in  first  class.  It  was  seven-forty.  She  wanted  a  cocktail,  too,  but  first  she  had  to  figure  something  out.  What  had  happened  and  how  had  it  happened?  Had  seven  months  gone  by  without  her  hearing  Jan's  voice?  She  had  sent  a  Christmas  card,  left  a  birthday  message  on  his  answering  ma-  chine  in  March.  He  would  have  told  her.  Even  if  he  had  planned  not  to,  she  would  have  heard  something  in  his  voice,  she  would  have  asked,  he  would  have  toldher.  Some-  how,  communication  between  all  of  them  had  become  infrequent  and  super-  ficial.  Jorie  remembered  the  fortieth-  anniversary  party.  Her  folks  had  just  moved  to  Phoenix;  she  had  recently  separated  from  her  first  husband;  Jan  had  just  come  out,  and  he  brought  his  lover  with  him.  Everyone  worked  around  the  tension,  but  the  effect  was  so  toxic  that  in  the  six  years  that  had  elapsed  since  then  no  further  holiday  re-  unions  had  been  suggested.  Jorie  picked  up  the  in-flight  maga-  zine  todistract  herself,  Thumbing  through  it  back  to  front,  she  stopped  to  study  the  world  map  of  airline  routes.  The  map  made  it  all  look  like  a  snap:  bright-green  continents,  bright-blue  oceans,  laced  with  red  arcs,  planes  skippingmerrily  over  the  surface  like  stones  on  a  still  lake.  Jorie's  stomach  turned  over.  Everyone  was  too  far  apart.  Everyone  was  in  a  different  state;  the  children  were  all  in  different  countries.  No  one  in  any  of  her  families  -nuclear,  extended,  reconstituted-  &quot;Forget  living  well.  was  home.  She  felt  the  need  to  hold  everyone  together.  She  placed  her  little  finger  just  outside  [REDACTED],  where  one  son  was  visiting  a  Swiss  farm  family.  Her  thumb  easily  reached  the  blue  wa-  ters  of  the  Virgin  Islands-her  youn-  ger  son  was  on  a  sailboat  with  his  fa-  ther.  She  wished  that  she  could  connect  herself  to  her  two  sons  without  includ-  ing  their  father,  but  that  was  not  possi-  ble.  With  a  little  cheating,  her  middle  finger  could  stretch  home  to  LaGuar-  dia,  to  Paul.  No  fingers  were  left  for  his  daughters,  vacationing  in  [REDACTED]  with  their  mother-but  that  would  be  fine  with  them.  Her  right  hand  looked  deformed,  splayed  over  the  map.  Now  for  the  left  hand.  She  located  herself,  tracing  the  red  line  a  quarter  inch,  from  [REDACTED]  to  [REDACTED].  The  other  family  members  could  only  be  connected  by  resting  her  entire  palm  over  the  West.  They  would  all  be  in  Bloomington  by  late  afternoon,  wait-  ing  for  Hank  and  Jan.  Jan's  request  to  be  buried  in  Bloomington  was  filling  the  skies  with  family,  following  their  red  arcs  home,  even  though  no  one  lived  there  anymore.  They  would  be   collecting  at  the  funeral  parlor  in  their  old  neighborhood,  driving  to  the  ceme-  tery  on  Windhill  Road,  passing  their  house.  If  the  new  people  had  done  anything  to  the  porch,  Jorie  would  be  upset.  The  best  of  family  life  had  hap-  pened  on  that  porch.  Why  hadn't  Jan  let  them  all  fly  the  other  way,  to  San  Francisco,  to  help  take  care  of  him?  Theo  had  been  furious.  &quot;I  want  to  know  who  he  got  it  from,&quot;  he  had  raged  on  the  telephone.  &quot;If  he  got  it  from  Hank,  I'm  going  to  have  a  big  problem.  I'm  going  to  want  to  kill  him.&quot;  &quot;Please,&quot;  Jorie  said.  &quot;Please  don't  ask  Hank  who  got  it  from  whom.&quot;  &quot;Why  the  hell  not?&quot;  &quot;Because,&quot;  Jorie  said,  and  she  went  on  to  repeat  to  her  brother  everything  he  had  told  her  in  outrage,  but  with  a  saintly  twist.  &quot;You  said  Hank  made  sure  he  never  lacked  for  visitors.  Hank  made  sure  he  had  painkillers.  Hank  helped  him  write  a  will.  Hank  did  it  all,  right  to  the  end.&quot;  &quot;I  would  have  done  it,  too,  only  nobody  asked  me.&quot;  &quot;But  that's  not  Hank's  fault.&quot;  A  wave  of  queasiness  rocked  her  " b"stomach  again.  &quot;Was  that  turbu-  lence?&quot;  Jorie  asked  the  young  man  in  shirtsleeves  next  to  her,  but  he  couldn't  hear;  he  was  plugged  into  the  twelve-  channel  audio  system.  &quot;Was  that  tur-  bulence?&quot;  she  called  to  the  stewardess,  two  rows  behind  her,  serving  coffee  from  her  cart.  The  man  in  first  class  whose  7  a.m.  cocktail  Jorie  had  admired  turned  in  hisseatto  answer  her.  &quot;Nope.&quot;  He  smiled.  &quot;No  turbulence  yet.&quot;  He  watched  her  a  moment,  his  smile  dim-  ming.  &quot;Are  you  O.K.?&quot;  She  nodded,  keeping  her  hands  firmly  on  her  family  members,  holding  them  together.  Jorie  had  met  Hank  once.  Hank  had  scrutinized  her  triumphantly,  as  if  he  knew  things.  Had  she  done  horrible  big-sister  things  to  Jan  that  she  didn't  remember?  Her  gay  male  clients  some-  times  complained  about  their  big  sis-  ters.  Perhaps  there  was  less  intention  in  all  this  covert  family  brutality  than  she  had  encouraged  them  to  believe.  How  could  she  make  up  for  hers?  Jorie  did  not  know  how  to  think  of  Jan  now.  Jan  had  been  very  intense,  very  elusive  when  he  was  alive;  he  would  probably  continue  to  be  so  now  that  he  was  dead.  But  where  would  he  continue?  Would  \xc2\xae  bd  she  have  more  answers  if  she  had  been  with  him  more?  She  had  always  de-  scribed  her  family  as  close.  Was  it  pos-  sible  to  feel  close,  very  close,  to  someone  who  didn't  feel  close  to  you!?  Yes,  it  happened  all  the  time.  She  could  think  of  three  specific  middle-aged  clients  who  still  longed  for  signs  of  affection  from  older  siblings  who  couldn't  care  less.  JAN  was  a  vegetarian.  Jorie  remem-  bered  how  he  had  given  up  pork  at  age  ten,  after  seeing  a  certain  pig  at  the  county  fair.  The  pig  had  looked  him  in  theeye  so  intelligently,  he  had  said,  that  it  was  as  if  thepig  were  a  man  trapped  inside  a  pig.  The  family  ac-  commodated  him  easily-a  little  less  bacon  in  the  skillet  on  Sunday  morn-  ing.  Chicken  came  later  and  was  more  inconvenient.  Jan  was  watching  Mom  cut  up  a  fryer.  The  sight  of  the  blood  (W  cnd  mme  oor  Gar  !&quot;  running  where  she  sliced  apart  the  blue  sockets  of  the  leg  bones  made  him  lose  his  appetite.  Mom  adjusted  by  prepar-  ing  bigger  salads,  a  second  vegetable,  a  plate  of  cheese.  For  Jan,  she  learned  to  cook  fish,  frozen  slabs  from  the  super-  market,  unless  a  neighbor  brought  fresh  fillets  home  from  a  trip  north.  Finally,  when  they  were  all  grown  and  living  in  different  cities,  Jan  gave  up  fish.  Jorie  had  witnessed  the  moment.  She  was  sitting  next  to  him  at  the  local  fancy  restaurant  one  weekend  when  everyone  had  returned  to  Bloomington  for  an  important  wedding.  She  was  in  her  first  marriage,  careerless,  dazed  with  her  own  insignificance.  Theo  had  completed  his  Ph.D.  thesis  on  Joyce  and  couldn't  find  a  job;  his  wife  was  expecting.  Janhad  a  mistrustful,  em-  barrassed  quality;  he  was  a  senior  at  [REDACTED],  majoring  in  art  history.  Jan  had  ordered  the  sole.  The  waiter  brought  everyone's  entr\xc3\xa9e  with  a  great  flourish;  Jan's  was  last.  Jorie  remem-  bered  wondering  if  the  waiter  was  gay.  &quot;Lucky  boy,&quot;  he  said  to  Jan  with  pride,  &quot;your  sole  was  very,  very  preg-  nant,  and  we  left  the  roe  in.  There's  lots  of  it.  Enjoy.&quot;  There  was  anice  conversation  going  on,  Jorie  thought,  between  her  mother  " b"and  her  sister-in-law  about  babies.  She  glanced  at  Jan  -he  had  pushed  his  main  plate  away  untouched.  He  had  removed  and  balled  up  the  foil  from  his  baked  po-  tato  and  was  slicing  it  into  neat  strips  and  chewing  methodically,  the  way  most  men  would  eat  a  steak.  For  some  reason,  Jorie  did  not  want  her  mother  and  fa-  ther  to  realize  what  was  go-  ing  on.  It  wasn't  so  much  the  high  cost  of  the  meal,  given  their  means,  as  that  they  might  feel  a  sense  of  failure  as  parents-an  in-  ability  to  nourish  and  sat-  isfy.  Without  asking  Jan,  she  mussed  his  plate  with  her  fork  so  it  would  look  used.  He  stopped  chewing  to  watch  her.  She  tried  to  disguise  her  intent  by  inges-  ting  the  roe,  the  entire,  sick-  eningly  rich,  slimy,  chewy,  dense  crescent  of  eggs.  4/-  ways  between,  she  thought  now.  I'm  always  between  people,  trying  to  minimize  the  harm  they  might  do  to  each  other.  HE  captain's  voice  came  over  the  loudspeaker,  announcing  that  they  were  flying  over  the  Canadian  Rockies.  Jorie's  shoulders  stiffened,  and  she  turned  her  back  to  the  window.  The  last  thing  she  needed  right  now  was  to  look  down  on  the  tops  of  some  of  the  highest  mountain  peaks  in  the  world.  A  terrible  panic  seized  her-it  seemed  like  a  bad  idea,  flying.  How  did  these  big  boats  stay  up,  anyway?  The  world  was  full  of  things  that  she  didn't  understand  but  had  to  depend  on-all  bad  ideas.  People  should  be  taught  how  things  work.  Electricity,  telephones,  televisions,  cameras,  computers,  sub-  marines,  rockets-everything.  Life  was  too  full  of  anxiety  when  you  had  to  take  everything  around  you  on  faith.  Oh,  God,  she  thought,  wherever  you  are,  you  have  to  take  it  on  faith.  Jan  has  to  take  his  world  on  faith,  wherever  he  is.  Where  is  he?  If  he's  not  in  his  body,  is  he  in  the  air?  Is  he  like  smoke-  elusive,  tender,  vegetarian  smoke?  If  so,  she  was  probably  closer  to  him  now  than  before,  when  he  was  in  San  Fran-  cisco  and  she  was  in  New  York.  In  fact,  with  the  whole  family  thirty-five  thousand  feet  in  the  air,  they  were  all  closer  to  Jan-as  closeas  they  would  ever  get.  Emotion,  sharp  as  cayenne  pepper,  filled  the  back  of  her  throat,  driving  tears  into  her  eyes.  A  child  behind  Jorie  began  to  sing  a  phrase  from  a  popular  song.  The  child  had  learned  the  phrase  phonetically;  it  was  senseless  enough  to  begin  with,  but,  repeated  over  and  over,  it  was  almost  unrecognizable  as  English.  It  sounded  like  achild  of  five  or  six,  a  boy.  Turning  to  peer  between  the  seats  tosee  if  she  had  guessed  correctly,  Jorie  felt  her  lap  fall  out  from  under  her  once,  twice,  three  times.  The  mag-  azine  slid  to  the  floor.  Her  eyeballs  ached.  &quot;Was  that  turbulence?&quot;  she  called  out  to  the  man  in  first  class.  &quot;Yup,&quot;  he  said,  turning  to  check  on  her.  &quot;That  was  it.&quot;  He  raised  his  index  finger  slightly,  stopping  the  stew-  ardess.  Jorie  watched  as  he  quietly  or-  dered  two  more  cocktails,  one  for  him-  self,  one  for  her.  There  was  more  turbulence-a  long  series  of  violent  belts  of  air  against  the  belly  of  the  plane.  The  seat-belt  sign  went  on;  the  captain  apologized.  Jorie  held  her  breath,  but  the  plane  did  not  lose  altitude,  did  not  plummet  to  the  earth  like  a  falling  stone,  breaking  the     red  arc,  blackening  the  green  conti-  nent.  Jorie  was  afraid,  even  when  it  was  over.  She  did  not  want  to  die,  to  have  thirty  seconds  of  understanding  -a  few  miserly  illuminations-be-  tween  herself  and  the  end  of  conscious-  ness.  'Two  strong  memories  of  the  porch  in  Bloomington  arose.  In  each  memory  it  was  dark  and  a  brother  was  there-Theo  coming  home  from  col-  lege,  reading  aloud  to  her  &quot;Do  Not  Go  Gentle  Into  That  Good  Night;&quot;  Jan,  as  a  beautiful  eight-year-old,  singing  &quot;I'm  an  Old  Cowhand.&quot;  Jorie  was  tired  of  fighting,  tired  of  holding  the  door  shut  against  pain.  Pain  was  stronger,  pain  was  hungrier.  Pain  would  win  this  one.  If  Jorie  didn't  stand  aside  and  let  it  in,  it  would  break  down  the  door.  It  was  the  ma-  rauder,  there  to  loot  her,  to  take  what-  ever  she  had  that  it  wanted.  When  it  was  gone,  there  might  not  be  anything  left.  There  was  nothing  she  could  say  to  stop  it  or  change  it.  Her  shoulders  slumped  softly  into  the  seat  back,  her  hands  fell  open.  Come  in.  To  her  sur-  prise,  the  first  rush  was  intimate  and  heady,  with  a  precipitous  edge,  so  close  to  pleasure  that  she  thought,  If  I  didn't  know  it  was  loss,  Pd  think  it  was  love."