 b"THE  secretary  enters  the  express  elevator.  Four  men  already  stand  there  in  a  half  circle.  Each  wears  a  suit  in  a  different  shade  of  gray.  They  have  been  chatting,  but  as  soon  as  the  secretary  enters  and  turns  to  face  front  they  fall  silent.  The  doors  close,  the  elevator  starts  to  rise,  and  the  men  begin  to  jingle  the  change  in  their  pockets.  Nothing  then  for  twelve  flights  but  the  elevator,  with  its  me-  chanical  purr,  and  the  sound  of  the  coins,  growing  more  fierce.  The  secre-  tary  pictures  quarters  and  dimes  sliding  down  black  crevices,  pennies  abandoned  on  bureaus  cut  from  mahogany  and  oak.  She  keeps  her  back  to  the  men,  her  eyes  low,  her  mouth  still.  She  is  ready  to  run.  A  Gypsy  may  follow  her,  rattling  a  tambourine.  A  witch  doctor  may  jump  out  from  the  bush,  growling  behind  a  mask,  circling  her  slowly.  They  call  to  her  now  in  the  elevator,  sing  to  her  with  the  jingle  of  the  change  like  crimson-tufted  birds  that  never  see  the  sky  above  the  rain  forest.  We  have  black  magic  in  our  pockets,  they  say,  lightning  in  our  hands.  The  secretary  works  for  a  man  who  is  most  often  called  &quot;he.&quot;  Is  he  in  yet,  can  he  meet  with  me,  did  he  leave  for  the  squash  courts?  The  secretary  finds  this  odd,  like  those  couples,  usually  older,  who  refer  to  each  other  not  by  name  but  as  &quot;he&quot;  and  &quot;she.&quot;  She  refers  to  him  by  his  initials,  which  have  a  ring  to  them.  He  dictates  letters  and  memos  into  a  machine.  With  earphones  and  a  foot  pedal,  she  transcribes  them.  Her  office  is  around  the  corner  from  his,  and  he  often  uses  the  dictating  machine  to  ask  her  to  do  things-order  a  book,  make  a  file,  do  telephone  research.  There  is  no  way  for  her  to  respond  to  him  on  the  machine,  and  his  visits  to  her  office  pass  in  seconds.  She  may  listen  to  his  voice  for  hours  at  a  time,  but  they  see  each  other  for  perhaps  five  minutes  during  the  working  day.  In  between  the  letters  and  memos,  the  instructions  about  duplicate  copies  and  Express  Mail,  the  secretary  hears  music  on  the  earphones-faint,  spo-  radic,  picked  up  by  some  footnote  of  physics  that  she  doesn't  understand  or  wish  to.  For  the  most  part  it  is  middle-  of-the-road  pop,  but  now  and  then  comes  one  of  the  more  brilliant  lights  of  rock  and  roll-&quot;Dancing  in  the  Street,&quot;  or  Bruce  Springsteen  singing  &quot;I'm  on  Fire.&quot;  Then  the  secretary  sits  still,  facing  her  typewriter,  and  listens  to  the  whole  song.  WHEN  the  secretary  was  a  little  girl,  her  mother's  friends  said  to  her,  &quot;'Your  hair  will  not  stay  blond  like  that  forever!  It'll  go  dark  as  your  eye-  brows,  you'll  see.&quot;  Today  the  secretary  has  thick  strawbherry-blond  hair  and  eyebrows  such  as  a  student  working  in  charcoal  might  draw.  She  has  become  a  secretary  as  an  emergency  measure,  and  has  had  to  put  into  service  clothes  she  formerly  saved  for  best-a  silk  dress  of  cobalt  blue,  tuxedo  pants,  a  gray  suit  previously  worn  only  to  fu-  nerals.  A  messenger  who  joins  her  on  the  express  elevator  one  morning  grins  -hey  baby,  you  all  right.  She  smiles  back  her  thanks.  Most  days,  she  would  rather  be  a  messenger  in  red  high-tops  and  a  black  T-shirt,  earphones  loose  around  her  neck,  a  bicycle  wheel  bal-  anced  under  her  fingertips.  Messen-  gers,  shehas  noticed,  have  a  lot  more  style  than  they  did  when  she  was  last  a  secretary,  over  ten  years  ago.  Her  new  job  pays  fairly  well,  for  work  that  is  mildly  interesting  and  very  easy.  Still,  she  longs  sometimes  to  drive  a  little  white  truck  around  the  city,  delivering  packages,  or  even  to  be  her  office  man-  ager's  assistant,  rushing  to  Wall  Street  with  papers,  and  wearing  jeans  to  work.  But  the  secretary  is  waiting  for  her  ship  to  come  in,  and  in  the  meantime  she  makes  more  money  than  an  office  boy  or  a  messenger,  and  if  her  ship  doesn't  come  in  she  may  be  able  to  disguise  this  stint  on  her  r\xc3\xa9sum\xc3\xa9.  The  secretary  tries  to  have  fantasies  that  are  practical.  O43616e616461  morning  as  the  secretary  pushesher  floor  number,  Twelve,  in  the  express  elevator  she  is  fol-  lowed  into  thecar  by  a  pale  young  man  in  a  rumpled  tweed  jacket.  He  has  just  the  slightest  wild  look  in  his  eye  to  confirm  that  he  is  the  old-fashioned  kind  of  messenger-  the  crazy  kind.  He  pushes  Fifteen.  The  doors  close  on  the  two  of  them.  &quot;Ride  with  me  to  Fifteen,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;''This  elevator  makes  me  nervous.&quot;  &quot;I'm  going  to  work,&quot;  says  the  secre-  tary.  &quot;I  get  off  at  Twelve.&quot;  She  indi-  cates  the  lighted  number  for  her  floor  -the  first  stop  for  the  express  elevator.  &quot;Please,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;I'm  scared.  This  elevator  makes  me  real-  ly,  really  nervous.&quot;  T  he  secretary " b"grunts,  neither  yes  nor  no,  and  stares  straight  ahead.  She  figures  the  young  man  won't  do  anything  to  her-touch  her,  that  is-before  they  reach  Twelve.  Between  Twelve  and  Fifteen,  she  is  not  so  sure.  She  does  feel  certain  that  she  should  not  trap  herself  in  an  ele-  vator  with  a  crazy  messenger.  But  maybe  he's  just  telling  the  truth.  Her  grandmother  hates  riding  self-service  elevators  alone,  too.  Her  grandmother  is  eighty,  a  recovered  alcoholic  who  is  backsliding.  People  need  support.  At  the  twelfth  floor,  a  mail  carrier  gets  on  and  pushes  Fourteen.  &quot;He's  going  up,&quot;  she  tells  the  mes-  senger,  then  slips  out  as  the  doors  close.  &quot;He's  only  going  to  Fourteen!&quot;  comes  the  cry  from  behind  the  doors.  The  secretary  feels  mean.  Unsympa-  thetic,  paranoid,  urban.  Not  her  brother's  keeper.  Later  she  thinks,  No.  One's  asked  to  do  things  day  and  night  -type  a  letter,  buy  the  milk,  give  to  Amnesty  International  or  the  Nature  Conservancy.  One  chooses,  one  has  to,  one  can't  do  everything.  One  could,  yes.  One  could  be  Mother  Teresa.  The  secretary  is  not  religious,  but  she  ad-  mires-reveres-Mother  Teresa.  If  there  are  saints,  Mother  Teresa  is  surely  one.  But  the  secretary  knows  she  is  not  a  saint.  The  messenger  could  have  asked  the  mailman  toride  with  him  to  Fifteen.  Would  he?  Probably  not.  He  asks  blond  ladies  who  wear  little  makeup  and  look  old  enough  to  remember  Sly  Stone  and  &quot;We  Are  Family.&quot;  The  secretary  lives  with  a  writer.  At  night  she  tells  him  the  story.  Is  she  guilty?  The  writer  shakes  his  head.  &quot;You  should  have  told  him  to  close  his  eyes  and  cover  his  ears,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;He'd  be  safe  in  one  more  floor.&quot;  FIVE  days  before  he  interviewed  her  for  this  job,  his  wife  died.  The  office  was  stunned,  and  he  was  devas-  tated,  the  office  manager  told  her-  they  had  beenmarried  thirty  years.  &quot;'Try  not  to  give  him  any  surprises.&quot;  So  the  secretary  worked  hard  to  follow  the  traditional  format  of  his  letters  and  memos,  and,  as  instructed,  she  left  out-  going  mail  on  the  one  chair  in  her  office,  even  though  she  would  have  preferred  to  leave  the  chair  empty,  in  case  someone  wanted  to  come  in  and  sit  on  it.  She  did  not  find  him  devastated.  He chatted  easily  with  her  during  their  interview,  and  made  adecent  joke.  After  a  brief  visit  to  Nantucket  with  his  daughter  and  son-in-law,  he  plunged  into  work,  answering  each  letter  the  day  he  received  it,  initiating  a  lawsuit,  and  putting  both  his  house  in  Ridgewood  and  his  condo  in  Palm  Beach  on  the  market  while  he  bought  a  condo  in  Mamaroneck  and  a  house  on  Martha's  Vineyard.  Passing  through  the  building's  lobby  one  day  at  lunchtime,  she  saw  him,  eating  Tofutti  from  a  cup  and  brows-  ing  at  a  newsstand.  He  looked  relaxed  and,  though  not  smug-he  is  too  inter-  ested  in  what  goes  on  around  him  for  that-satisfied.  He  is  a  very  private  man,  the  office  manager  said.  True,  he  makes  his  own  appointments,  and  he  never  tells  her  when  he  goes  out,  leaving  her  feeling  vague  and  foolish  when  trying  to  field  calls  for  him.  But  since  half  of  what  she  does  for  him  pertains  to  his  per-  sonal  life,  she  soon  knows  how  much  he  had  left  to  pay  on  his  mortgage  before  he  sold  the  house  and  how  much  he  finally  got  for  it.  She  knows  that  he  set  up  a  business  for  his  brother  and  that  he  runs  it  at  a  loss.  She  knows  the  value  of  his  late  wife's  jewelry.  He  stops  short  oneday  at  having  her  pho-  tocopy  his  datebook  but  he  withholds  nothing  more.  At  first  she  is  curious  about  all  of  this  -she  reads  the  letters  from  his  estate  lawyer,  reviews  the  bank  statements  before  passing  them  on  to  him.  Even-  tually,  however,  she  finds  his  wealth  too  great  to  hold  her  attention.  Eighty  thousand  dollars  in  a  high-interest  ac-  count  that  grows  every  month  as  she  watches.  Many  such  accounts.  Fifty  thousand  shares  of  stock  sold  at  ten-  fifty  each.  Half  a  dozen  different  ac-  counts  in  trust  forhis  daughter,  several  more  as  part  of  his  wife's  estate.  In  the  spring,  he  receives  handfuls  of  1099  forms.  Knowing  how  much  he  has  di-  minishes  the  thrill.  She  slits  open  each  envelope  for  his  convenience,  and  date-  stamps  the  outside  without  bothering  to  look  in.  7  THE  secretary  falls  in  love  with  aprintmaker.  When  he  is  not  drunk  or  immobilized  by  depression,  he  " b"makes  silk-screen  prints  of  Rousseau-  like  tigers  resting  among  African  masks,  or,  as  a  sideline,  he  dyes  fabric  in  shades  of  rose,  apricot,  pineapple.  The  secretary  still  lives  with  the  writer,  whom  she  has  loved  for  years,  but  now  he  has  rented  a  house  in  the  country  so  that  he  can  write  a  book,  and  the  secretary  must  stayin  her  apartment  in  the  city  during  the  week.  There  she  thinks  about  the  printer,  who  calls  her  at  the  office  to  tell  her  that  he  loves  her,  that  he  wants  and  needs  her,  that  he  will  make  room  for  her  in  his  closet,  at  his  drafting  table,  in  his  whole  life,  that  she  can  wait  for  her  ship  with  him,  without  being  a  secretary.  HE  knows  nothing  of  what's  in  her  bank  account,  of  how  much  of  her  pay  goes  toward  her  rent,  or  how  her  life  would  change  if  the  ship  came  in.  He  doesn't  know  her  middle  name  or  the  names  of  the  printer  and  writer.  He  would  not  think  to  ask  these  things,  or  when  her  birthday  is,  or  what  plans  she  might  have  for  the  weekend.  If  he  begins  to  notice  that  she  is  often  ten  to  fifteen  minutes  late  to  work  now,  after  months  of  being  punctual,  and  that  the  blue-green  of  her  eyes  spreads  to  half-  circle  shadows  below  them,  he  doesn't  say.  He  doesn't  know  that  the  writer  was  up  much  of  one  Sunday  night  recently,  breaking  dishes  in  the  kitchen,  throw-  ing  books  across  the  living  room,  groaning,  while  the  secretary  lay  curled  in  their  bed,  terrified.  The  writer  would  not  talk  to  her,  would  not  have  her  near  him.  Finally  he  returned  to  the  bedroom,  dressed  in  the  dark,  and  scraped  keys  and  change  off  the  bureau  before  he  left  again.  The  secre-  tary  lay  awake,  knowing  what  he  meant  to  do.  In  the  morning,  adusting  of  snow  covered  the  yard  outside  and  the  writer  refused  to  drive  the  secretary  theeight  miles  to  the  train  station  so  shecould  get  to  work.  He  had  both  car  keys  in  his  pocket.  He  loved  her,  he  said,  he  wanted  and  needed  her,  and  she  could  get  a  job  here,  and  not  have  to  commute  to  the  city  every  Monday.  The  secre-  tary  washed  and  dressed  and  picked  up  her  small  duffelbag.  Her  clothes  were  too  light  for  the  April  snow,  but  it  was  already  starting  to  melt.  She  would  be  late  for  work,  but  even  if  she  couldn't  hitch  a  ride  to  town  she  would  get  to  the  station  and  catch  the  next  train.  She  walked  briskly  for  an  hour,  feeling  her  chin  tilted  up  too  high,  frightened  of  being  cruel,  angry  about  being  melodramatic  simply  because  she  was  too  poor  to  own  a  car  or  takea  taxi.  The  writer  drove  up  beside  her.  &quot;You  win,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Come  on,  I'll  drive  you  to  the  station,  if  that's  what  you  want.&quot;  She  stopped  walking  but  did  not  get  in  the  car.  He  was  known  for  his  odd,  sometimes  macabre  sense  of  humor.  He  would  drive  her  home.  She  would  have  to  start  walking  all  over  again.  &quot;No,  thanks,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;I'm  halfway  there.&quot;  He  followed  her,  driving  slowly  on  the  country  road,  apologizing  through  the  window,  promising  to  take  her  no-  where  butthe  train  station.  &quot;Haven't  I  always  kept  my  promises?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  she  said.  But  she  had  loved  him  for  many  years,  and  not  only  had  she  not  meant  to  hurt  him,  she  had  never  dreamed  she  could.  She  got  into  the  car,  and  he  drove  her  to  the  train  station.  &quot;I'll  love  you  for  a  lifetime,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;not  fora  weekend.&quot;  The  printer  had  already  said  that.  &quot;I  know  you,&quot;  said  the  writer.  &quot;I  can  love  you  better.&quot;  We  can  do  this  right,  the  printer  has  said.  We  both  know  enough  by  now.  The  train  came  in  and  the  secretary  kissed  the  writer.  His  head  didn't  move.  WHEN  she  arrives  at  the  office,  he  has  come  in  early,  gone  out  for  a  meeting.  He  will  not  have  noticed  her  " b"lateness.  She  opens  the  mail  and  stacks  it  her  way,  by  category,  with  things  of  greatest  interest-financial-on  top.  She  uncovers  the  typewriter  and  puts  on  the  earphones,  watching  herself  make  the  daily  gestures.  Her  fingertips  touch  the  smooth,  thick  stationery  with  its  high  rag  content.  Her  foot  pushes  the  dictation  pedal.  She  types  three  short  letters  and  one  long  memo.  His  letters  tend  to  be  brief,  to  the  point.  On  the  tape,  in  his  dry,  emotionless  voice,  they  may  sound  flat  or  strained,  but  on  paper  they  seem  better,  and  when  he  signs  his  nickname  the  informality  adds  surprising  energy.  &quot;Dear  Ed:  Congratulations  on  your  well-deserved  promotion.  ...  All  of  us  are  happy.  ...Sincerely  yours  ...&quot;  &quot;Dear  Dick:  The  enclosed  article  from  the  Times  of  [REDACTED]  may  behelpful  in  the  --  case.  Sincerely  yours.&quot;  Every  once  in  a  while,  he  tells  her  to  put  in  an  exclamation  point.  In  between  the  letters  she  hears  &quot;Sweet  Dreams  Are  Made  of  This,&quot;  by  the  Eurythmics,  and  later  Phil  Collins  singing  &quot;Against  All  Odds,&quot;  a  song  she  loathes.  Between  letters  and  songs,  she  thinks  about  the  writer.  &quot;Even  this  doesn't  help,&quot;  he  had  said  over  the  weekend,  gesturing  at  the  manuscript  for  the  history  book  he  was  writing.  &quot;No  perspective.  You  are  the  center.&quot;  &quot;You  never  told  me,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  tried  to  live  it,&quot;  he  said.  Still,  she  wished  he  had  told  her,  had  said  the  words  weeks  ago,  before  she  first  met  the  printer,  or,  better,  months  ago,  when  he,  the  writer,  had  been  her  center-distant,  sometimes  disapprov-  ing,  yet  still  the  core.  He  comes  back  from  his  meeting.  He  39  asks  her  to  paste  up  two  newspaper  clippings  regarding  the  latest  financial  crisis,  photocopy  them  ten  times,  and  send  copies  to  five  of  his  associates.  This  she  does  willingly,  if  not  well,  grateful  he  is  not  more  demanding.  If  they  both  love  her,  why  is  shenot  happy?  THE  writer  begins  sending  her  short  letters  every  day.  The  house  is  quieter  in  spring  than  in  win-  ter,  he  reports.  It  relaxes  in  warmer  weather,  does  not  have  to  work  so  hard  at  being  a  house.  The  towhee  they  had  seen  the  previous  fall  comes  back,  shy  and  skittish  as  ever.  A  pairof  flickers  play  tag  in  the  trees  across  the  road.  Later,  in  June,  he  needs  no  flashlight  to  follow  the  road  around  the  marsh  at  night;  his  way  is  lit  by  hundreds  of  fireflies.  They  are  beautiful  letters,  the  most  beautiful  she  has  ever  received.  She  dreads  opening  them.  She  wishes  he  had  been  able  to  write  the  letters  sooner,  before  the  printer  had  stolen  her  heart  by  pouring  out  his  own  in  the  longest  letter  (five  pages,  single-spaced)  he  ever  wrote  to  anyone.  A  year  before,  she  had  asked  the  writer  for  letters;  again  he  had  been  working  out  of  town,  and  he  called  her  on  the  telephone  every  day  because  he  was  too  busy  to  write  to  her.  The  printer  is  sending  her  socks.  A  pair  a  day,  in  cornflower  blue,  tur-  quoise,  peach,  leaf  green,  raspberry,  cream.  Each  day's  pair  seems  the  best,  and  she  puts  them  on  immediately.  With  each  pair  comes  a  tiny  pencil-  written  note:  If  I'm  crazy  about  you,  am  I  a  sockopath?  Want  to  go  to  bed  and  have  socks  with  me?  For  her  birthday,  the  writer  gives  her  a  pair  of  earrings-drops  of  gold  and  pearl.  He  sends  her  a  poem  by  Pablo  Neruda,  with  a  line  of  his  own  added  at  the  end.  The  printer  gives  her  an  emerald-green  T-shirt  silk-  screened  with  Mayan  figures,  andan  atlas  of  the  world.  He  sends  a  postcard  he  has  made  himself-a  collage  ofcut-  outs  and  colors,  words  and  figures,  adding  up  to  the  celebration  of  her  birthday.  That  is,  he  says  he  sent  it.  The  oversized  card,  with  its  attach-  ments  waving  and  singing,  never  ar-  rives.  &quot;You're  the  best  thing  that's  ever  happened  to  me,&quot;  the  printer  says.  The  " b"writer  has  already  told  her  that,  and  the  secretary  is  not  sure  she  wants  the  honor.  Looking  back,  could  she  say  those  words  about  any  of  the  men  she  has  loved?  Yes,  and  one  of  them  is  the  writer.  [REDACTED]  afternoon,  the  secretary  sends  a  telex,  her  first.  She  types  a  series  of  codes  into  the  telex  machine  and  then  the  message  from  him.  The  mes-  sage  appears  on  a  screen.  Then  she  types  in  more  numbers  and  letters.  Seconds  after  the  final  key  is  pushed,  the  message  is  printed  out  on  a  machine  next  to  her.  The  secretary  watches  the  paper  coming  out  of  the  printing  ma-  chine.  At  that  same  instant,  but  three  hours  earlier,  the  message  is  being  printed  in  an  office  in  [REDACTED].  Other  secretaries  in  the  office  curse  the  telex,  with  its  com-  plicated  codes  and  ar-  rogant  exactitude.  But  the  secretary  is  re-  minded  of  a  magician  she  watched  at  lunch,  time  oneday  in  front  of  the  building.  He  set  a  piece  of  newspaper  on  fire  in  a  frying  pan,  Z*  covered  the  pan,  and  seconds  later  uncovered  it  to  release  a  white  dove.  The  telex  holds  no  doves-its  talk  is  of  commodities,  invest-  ments,  an  oil  spill.  Yet  inside  the  machine  and  then  above  it  the  mes-  sage  flies  up  fifty  floors  of  beige  walls  and  out     over  the  clouds,  in  one  breath  following  the  curve  of  the  earth,  turning  on  itself,  and  landing  on  its  feet.  THE  printer  lies  on  his  side  on  the  secretary's  patterned  couch,  reading  a  maga-  zine.  He  wears  blue-  jeans,  raspberry  socks,  and  a  goldenrod  T-  shirt  that  he  has  silk-  screened  with  an  African  mask.  He  has  referred  to  himself  as  a  scarecrow,  and  she  knows  what  he  means  -his  height,  his  loose      \n\narms  and  legs,  the  blond  hair  like  corn  silk  above  the  prominent  nose.  But  to  her  he  is  a  great  plumed  bird,  with  a  long,  solid  throat,  his  colors  flickering  in  the  sun,  topped  by  a  thatch  of  gold.  She  has  never  considered  any  man  she  loved  so  beautiful.  At  night,  poised  above  him  in  the  half-light  from  the  street  lamp  outside,  she  sees  an  alabas-  ter  mask  in  his  profile.  Afraid  of  death,  he  does  not  enjoy  hearing  that,  and  she  doesn't  mention  it  again.  OING  down  on  the  elevator  one  evening,  the  secretary  is  joined  by  asmall  woman  in  a  brown  plaid  wool  skirt  and  a  brown  cardigan.  The  secre-  tary  is  mildly  surprised,  since  the  tem-  perature  outside  is  in  the  nineties,  and  she  has  been  reduced  to  wearing  a  white  cotton  skirt  and  a  Hawaiian  shirt\n\n that  features,  among  other  things,  smiling  blue  porpoises.  The  secretary  cannot  figure  out  where  on  her  floor  this  woman  would  come  from,  but  she  doesn't  mind  sharing  the  elevator  with  her,  until  the  woman  sidles  close.  &quot;You  have  athread  hanging  loose,&quot;  says  the  woman,  and,  reaching  out,  she  tugs  at  a  tiny  length  of  thread  hanging  from  one  of  the  Hawaiian  shirt's  iridescent  green  buttons.  &quot;Thank  you,&quot;  says  the  secretary  icily,  furious  at  the  intrusion,  feeling  both  violated  and  confused.  What  isit  about  her  that  immediately  makes  her  the  intimate  of  nosy  women  and  ner-  yous  messengers?  \n\nO43616e616461  day  while  he  is  out  of  town,  an  envelope  that  includes  a  copy  of  his  wife's  death  certificate  comes  from  a  municipal  agency.  Thesecretary  has  never  seen  a  death  certificate  before,  so  she  reads  it.  She  thinks  about  his  wife,  their  long  mar-  riage.  Thirty  years  of  marriage:  his  helpmate.  He  did  not  look  deva-stated  thatday,  less  1  than  a  month  after  his  op  wife's  death,  when  the  /  secretary  saw  him  eat-  ing  Tofutti  and  mull-  ing  over  magazines.  He  did  not  look  bereaved,  much  less  a  recent  widower.  Other  secre-  taries  say  he's  always  had  a  girlfriend,  but  they  say  a  lot  of  things. \nBy  being  &quot;private-  that  is,  downright  se-  cretive-he  engenders  more  curiosity  than  if  he  offered  small  details from  his  personal  life.  The  secretary  folds  the  death  certificate  exact-  lyas  it  had  been,  slides  it  into  the  envelope,  date-stamps  the  out-  side,  and  puts  it  in  his  &quot;in&quot;  box.  HE  writer's  let-  ters  have  become  more  direct.  Love  changes  over  time,  he  says  in  one.  It  grows,  if  you  let  it.  If  you " b"don't  ...you're  just  writing  the  same  book  over  and  over.  The  secretary  reads  without  the  heart  to  re-  ply  that  the  beginning  is  the  part  of  the  story  she  loves  most.  That  in  a  world  of  doing  the  best  she  can  at  making  do,  a  world  in  which  her  ship  doesnot  even  pass  with-  in  sight,  she  longs  not  for  growth  but  for  pas-  sion.  T  her  door,  he  stoops  to  pick  up  some-  thing  from  the  hall  rug.  Entering  her  office,  he  checks  his  &quot;in&quot;&quot;  box,  and  as  he  does  so  he  flicks  a  scrap  of  correction  tape,  fuzzed  from  the  rug,  onto  her  desk.  Then  he's  gone  again,  without  a  word.  HE  fact  is,  the  printer  told  the  sec-  retary  early  on  that  he  got  drunk  once  a  week.  And  she  did  not  believe  him  or  could  not  listen,  and  she  admits  this  later,  when  she  tells  him  how  frequent  once  a  week  now  seems.  They  are  lying  on  her  couch,  resting  in  the  breeze  after  a  trip  to  the  beach.  The  printer  says  he  likes  the  feeling  of  losing  control.  They  don't  resolve  anything  then;  she  didn't  expect  to.  She  wishes  he  would  not  drink  so  much,  but  he  will  not  drink  moderately.  She  knows  any  resolution  could  take  years.  Her  eyes  burn  from  salt  water.  She  reaches  for  eye  drops  and  he  says,  &quot;Let  me  do  it,&quot;  nodding  for  emphasis.  He  takes  the  drops  and  sits  beside  her  on  the  couch.  With  two  fingers  he  touches  the  lower  and  upper  lids  of  first  her  left  eye,  then  her  right,  while  he  puts  three  drops  in  each.  She  lies  under  his  hand,  not  blinking,  smelling  the  sun  on  his  fingers.  He  gives  her  two  tissues.  &quot;This  one's  for  your  eyes,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;'This  one's  for  your  nose.&quot;  MOST  nights  the  secretary  cannot  sleep  through  without  a  trip  to  the  bathroom.  Often  the  writer  has  woken  up  as  she  left  the  bedroom. When  he  heard  her  return,  touching  the  doorjamb  in  the  dark,  the  writer  started  to  beep  softly:  beep-beep,  beep-  beep,  as  a  guide  to  where  the  bed  stood,  where  he  lay  in  it,  a  beacon  of  sound  to  keep  her  on  course.  It  is  this  tiny  signal  of  concern  that  she  not  hit  the  bureau  or  bark  her  shin  on  the  bedframe,  picturing  him  staying  awake  one  more  minute  until  she  came  back,  in  order  to  beep  out  his  love  to  her,  hear  her  giggle,  feel  her  slide  next  to  him  before,  secure  again,  they  both  slept-if  anything  he  has  said  or  done  in  six  years  tempts  her  to  go  back  to  him  it  is  this  beep-beep  in  the  night.  I  have  tried  to  live  as  if  I  loved  you,  he  has  said,  and  (except  for  one  brief  affair  early  on)he  has.  Even  in  the  new-moon  black  of  a  winter's  night,  half  asleep,  he  sent  his  declaration  by  way  of  this  signal,  loving  her,  wanting  her  to  come  back.  &amp;  I  \\HE  secretary  gets  on  the  express  elevator.  It  remains  in  the  lobby  for  what  feels  like  avery  long  time.  Still  alone  in  the  car,  she  grows  ner-  vous  and  decides  to  leave,  but  the  doors  close.  The  elevator  rises  excruciatingly  slowly.  Indecisive,  it  hesitates  at  one  point,  stopping  for  several  beats  of  the  secretary's  heart.  She  stands  in  a  white  square  at  the  center  of  the  car's  floor,  seeing  that  her  hands  are  clenched.  She  reviews  nother  life  but  the  safety  fac-  tors  of  the  average  elevator  in  a  high-  rise  building.  She  would  not  mind  waiting  in  the  closed  car  until  some-  one  rescued  her,  but  she  is  terrified  of  falling.  Finally  the  light  for  the  twelfth  floor  flashes,  and  the  elevator  stops  again.  After  several  heartbeats  more,  the  doors  begin  to  open  slowly,  revealing  the  surprise  they  have  for  her-the  elevator  has  landed  three  feet  above  the  twelfth  floor.  Perched  at  the  opening,  the  secretary  pauses.  As  soon  as  the  doors  have  opened  all  the  way,  they  start  to  close.  The  secretary  needs  only  one  more  instant  to  decide,  and  then  she  pushes  off;  betterto  jump  than  to  fall."