 b"AT  one  point  Berard  decided  to  do  A  something  about  his  lying.  Why  was  he  so  fond  of  it?  The  question  consumed  his  days.  At  dinner  he  would  gently  slice  ham  onto  a  plat-  ter  and  feel  the  urge  to  tell  a  story,  a  lie.  Other  hams  sliced.  The  first  ham.  The  ham  crunch.  People  nodded,  chewed,  raised  eyebrows.  He  felt  that  his  tales  inspired  them.  He  never  lied  tohis  children,  al-  though  he  told  them  stories  about  the  bears  he  had  seen  asa  boy  in  the  Adirondacks,  where  he  had  spent  his  summers.  Once  he  claimed  to  have  been  a  wrestler-which  was  a  lie-  until  Nick,  who  was  five  at  the  time,  kicked  him  in  the  face  in  a  sort  of  challenge.  &quot;How  do  you  stop  that,  Daddy?&quot;  Berard,  who  had  been  watching  television  with  Sophie  at  the  time,  squeezed  Nick's  knee  until  his  eyes  cleared.  It  took  some  time,  since  Nick  had  caught  him  flush  in  the  nose,  and  later  he  remembered  hearing  Sophie  shouting  to  Grace,  &quot;Daddy's  squeezing  Nick's  leg  off!&quot;  and  thinking  thatthe  whole  thing  was  his  fault,  the  result  of  another  one  of  his  lies.  Once  it  happened  that  he  was  caught  in  a  lie  and  there  was  really  very  little  for  him  to  do  about  it.  &quot;Why  did  you  tell  Max  Webber  you  could  scuba-dive?&quot;  Grace  asked  him  one  dim  November  night,  just  before  they  left  for  a  party  up  in  Tarpon  Springs.  She  leaned  to  the  left  and  twisted  an  earring.  Berard,  who  was  shaving,  thought  it  a  strange  ges-  ture,  as  if  she  were  regard-  ing  herself  in  a  mirror,  yet  she  was  facing  him.  &quot;I  could  scuba-dive,&quot;  he  said,  lifting  the  blade  from  his  face.  She  smirked.  He  gritted  his  teeth,  pulled  his  face  with  the  razor.  &quot;If  I  wanted  to,  I  could  get  cer-  tified.  It  doesn't  take  much.&quot;  &quot;'Sarah  tells  me  they  want  to  invite  us  out  on  that  damned  boat  this  week-  end,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;This  week-  end.&quot;  &quot;That's  easy,&quot;  Berard  said.  &quot;We  can't.  We  can  be  busy.&quot;  In  the  living  room  Nick  and  Sophie  were  fighting.  &quot;Never,  never,  never!&quot;  Sophie  yelled.  Grace  picked  up  her  hairbrush.  You  can't  get  around  this,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You  lie  to  Max,  so  we  have  to  stay  home.  What  if  he  wants  to  borrow  your  equipment?  What  then?&quot;  &quot;I  never  said  anything  about  equip-  ment,&quot;  Berard  said,  bending  close  to  the  mirror,  hoping  the  conversation  might  drift  off  and  die.  Grace  stood  in  the  doorway  and  putdabs  of  perfume  on  her  wrists.  She  looked  down,  checked  her  fingers.  Berard  thought  nothing  of  the  fact  that  she  was  quiet  for  a  moment,  that  her  gestures  were  cold.  &quot;'The  hell  you  didn't,&quot;  Grace  said.  &quot;I'm  telling  you  I  didn't,&quot;  Berard  said,  pushing  his  chin  out.  &quot;You  did.&quot;  He  only  vaguely  remembered  the  conversation  with  Max,  his  friend  and  the  family  doctor.  It  had  begun  with  a  discussion  of  nitrogen  narcosis  and  air-  craft  decompression.  Something  was  said  about  &quot;rapture  of  the  deep.&quot;  &quot;Have  you  ever  had  it?&quot;  Max  had  asked  him.  They  were  drinking  beer  out  of  mason  jars  at  a  bar  they  liked  called  the  Old  Salt.  &quot;When?&quot &quot;When  you  dive,&quot;  Max  said.  That  confused  Berard.  Had  he  lied  or  had  Max  simply  implanted  the  story  for  him  to  carry  on'  He  couldn't  re-  member  his  answer.  He  had  mumbled  a  few  words  about  regulators.  Now  he  turned  to  Grace.  &quot;I  wasn't  drunk.&quot;  She  lifted  a  foot  and  pulled  a  banana  sticker  off  the  heel  of  her  shoe.  &quot;So?&quot;  she  said,  without  looking  at  him.  She  tugged  at  the  hem  of  her  dress,  pressed  down  on  her  stomach,  and  softly  said,  &quot;Fat,&quot;  as  if  Berard  weren't  there  to  hear  her.  In  the  front  hall  the  kids  slammed  the  desk  drawers  open  and  shut  wildly.  Nick  shouted,  &quot;Mints!&quot;  Berard  heard  their  hands  sloshing  around  inhis  change  jar.  Grace  seemed  not  to  notice  this,  either.  &quot;I  don't  think  I  said  anything  about  equipment,&quot;  Berard  said.  Why  was  he  so  fuzzy?  &quot;That's  what  I'm  telling  you,&quot;  Grace  said,  looking  up  at  him.  &quot;You  did.  You  told  him  you  had  equipment.  He's  been  talking  about  it  for  a  month.  He  wants  us  to  go  out  on  the  boat.  I'm  going.&quot;  When  had  they  talked?  A  month  ago?  Berard  had  seen  Max  three  days  ago  while  driving  past  the  liquor  store  in  Madeira  Beach.  When  Max  waved,  he  slowed  the  car  and  waved  back.  Then  Max  put  his  hand  behind" b"his  back,  fanned  it  out,  and  wiggled  his  ass.  Berard  laughed  and  drove  on,  not  having  the  slightest  idea  what  Max  was  doing.  Now  he  knew.  Max  was  a  fish.  They  were  going  diving.  &quot;Shit,&quot;  Berard  said.  He  wiped  his  face  with  a  towel  and  thought.  Grace  reached  out  and  put  a  hand  on  his  belly.  &quot;Tell  him  you  lied.&quot;  Berard  saw  no  choice.  Just  then  So-  phie  leaned  in  the  bathroom  door.  &quot;Excuse  me,&quot;  she  said,  somewhat  pointedly.  &quot;Daddy,  the  mint  man  came.  Do  you  want  a  mint?&quot;  It  had  become  Sophie's  habit  recently  to  ignore  Grace.  Berard  tried  hard  not  to  fancy  himself  the  favorite,  as  he  could  clearly  remember  the  sting  he  felt  the  time  Nick  rushed  past  him  to  Grace  when  Ginger,  the  family  shepherd,  was  slammed  into  the  pavement  of  the  [REDACTED]  highway  by  a  station  wagon  full  of  Mormons.  If  Sophie  had  nothing  but  contempt  for  her  mother,  it  was  because  she  was  twelve.  &quot;Your  time  will  come,&quot;  Grace  had  told  him.  &quot;I  think  I  own  the  whole  [REDACTED];  he  said.  \xc2\xab&quot;Stop  it,  Daddy,&quot;  she  said,  sliding  back  around  the  corner  of  the  door-  frame.  &quot;Tell  him  you  lied,&quot;  Grace  said  again.  Berard  turned  on  the  faucet.  The  cold  water  brought  courage  to  mind,  morning,  the  human  spirit.  For  a  mo-  ment  he  felt  resolve.  &quot;I'll  have  to,&quot;  he  said,  with  his  forehead  against  the  mirror.  &quot;I'll  have  to  tell  him  the  truth.&quot;  Then  Grace  kissed  him  on  the  shoulder.  BUT  driving  to  work  the  next  day  Berard  went  the  long  way  justto  pass  the  marina.  He  told  himself  it  was  for  the  drive,  but  he  knew  what  he  was  doing:  looking  for  a  way  out,  a  cheap  scuba  school  or  secondhand  equipment,  although  he  had  little  real  hope.  He  pulled  off  the  highway  and  drove  under  a  bridge  at  the  inlet,  past  three  large  tourist  fishing  boats.  He  stopped  the  car  near  a  sign  that  read  &quot;Tanks  Filled,&quot;  and  for  an  instant  this  seemed  the  most  ,M  obvious  place  to  be,  as  if  nothing  other  than  whim  had  compelled  him  to  come  here.  It  was  still  early,  and  the  sun  was  just  cracking  over  the  rooftops.  Beyond  the  sign,  which  was  tacked  to  a  tele-  phone  pole,  there  stood  a  tiny  building  with  a  flatbed  trailer  and  a  filthy  direc-  tor's  chair  in  front  of  it.  A  cardboard  box-one  that  once  held  a  washing  machine-stood  in  the  center  of  the  trailer.  In  the  distance  he  heard  the  sound  of  a  heavy  motor  revving  out  on  the  bay.  He  turned  off  the  car's  engine  and  took  a  deep  breath.  Berard  knew  of  scuba  schools,  and  he  knew  that  he  could  probably  hold  Max  off.  On  the  way  out  he  had  kept  telling  himself,  &quot;I'm  not  stupid.&quot;  With  a  phone  call  to  Max  this  could  all  be  over.  What  he  feared  most  was  the  scant  moment  of  disbelief  he  knew  would  pass  over  Max's  face  when  he  told  him  he  had  lied  about  the  whole  thing.  It  was  too  easy  for  him  to  foresee  Max  slapping  an  understanding  paw  on  his  shoulder,  laughing  with  him,  guiding  him  with  an  elbow  through  his  office  waiting  room  or  across  some  parking  lot.  Max,  the  guide  now,  thinking,  as  he  rubbed  Berard's  shoul-  der  just  the  tiniest  bit,  &quot;He's  lying  for  me.  For  me.&quot;  [REDACTED]  that  was  what  Berard  feared.  Soeven  if  he  felt  criminal  for  sneaking  off,  spending  money  to  avoid  embar-  rassment,  it  was  simpler  somehow  this  way.  Painless.  He  stepped  out  of  thecar  and  flipped  down  his  sunglasses.  The  heat  had  not  yet  begun,  and  the  wharf,  where  he  brought  Nick  on  weekends  to  pick  up  " b"grouper  steaks,  seemed  alien  to  him.  &quot;Wednes-  day,&quot;  he  said  aloud,  as  if  that  explained  it.  At  the  door  of  the  build-  ing,  he  reached  through  the  rusty  screen  and  knocked.  No  one  an-  swered.  He  glanced  around  behind  him  and  looked  in  the  window,  pressing  close  to  get  past  the  glare.  There  was  a  long  counter  inside  and  not  much  else:  another  director's  chair,  a  stack  of  newspapers,  and  a  cash  register  with  the  drawer  open.  Empty  boxes,  the  kind  car  parts  come  in,  littered  the  floor.  He  was  about  to  give  up  when  he  saw  move-  ment  through  the  win-  dow  at  the  back  of  the  building.  An  old  man  stood  staring  at  the  ground  below  the  win-  dow.  Berardwaved,  but  the  man,  obviously  ab-  sorbed  by  whatever  lay  there,  didn't  notice.  It  occurred  to  Berard  that  the  man  might  be  trying  to  break  in,  and,  after  a  moment  of  standing  there  awkwardly,  he  tried  to  slide  out  of  his  line  of  vision,  but  the  man  suddenly  straightened  and  walked  away  from  the  window.  Berard  tensed  and  turned  for  the  car.  Just  as  he  reached  for  his  keys,  he  heard  footsteps  around  the  side  of  the  shed,  and  a  voice.  &quot;Can  you  give  me  a  hand  with  this  pumpkin?&quot;  He  turned  to  find  the  man  standing  at  the  corner  of  the  building,  holding  a  fishnet  in  his  hand.  He  had  dark  skin,  muddled  by  darker  patches  of  brown  concentrated  around  the  bridge  of  his  nose  and  along  the  ridge  above  his  eyebrows.  His  hair  was  white,  cut  short  and  tight  to  the  head.  His  T-shirt  said  NASTY  GIRLS  in  airbrush  stencil.  He  spoke  without  waiting  for  an  answer.  &quot;I  can't  find  my  boy  and  it's  too  heavy  for  just  an  old  man.  Have  you  seen  it?&quot;  Berard  jingled  the  change  in  his  pockets.  &quot;What?&quot;     &quot;'The  beauty,&quot;  theold  man  said,  putting  a  leg  upand  climbingonto  the  trailer.  &quot;'The  prize.&quot;  Berard  squinted  and  glanced  side-  ward.  In  the  distance  a  little  boy  held  an  eel  up  to  the  cars  that  drove  by  on  the  drawbridge.  &quot;Look,&quot;  theold  man  said,  standing  with  his  hands  on  the  edge  of  the  washing-machine  box.  &quot;Look  at  the  prize.&quot;  .  Berard  climbed  up  onto  the  trailer,  with  theold  man  coaxing  him  along.  Where  he  stood  on  top  of  the  trailer  bed,  the  sun  came  directly  over  the  rooftop  and  hit  him  square  in  the  face.  He  shaded  his  eyes.  The  old  man  smelled  like  a  tin  ashtray.  Wedged  in  the  box  was  a  truly  gigantic  pumpkin,  which  Berard  immediately  reached  down  to  and  touched.  &quot;Lord,&quot;  he  said,  wanting  it  right  away  to  take  back  to  Nick  and  Sophie.  The  old  man  smiled  broadly.  &quot;The  beauty.&quot;  &quot;Where  did  you  get  it'?&quot;  Berard    asked,  rubbing  away  at  the  dirt  stuck  to  the  hide  of  the  pumpkin  with  his  thumbnail.  &quot;My  sister,&quot;  said  the  man,  without  looking  up.  He  began  unfolding  the  net.  &quot;She  grew  it.&quot;  &quot;Where  does  she  live?&quot;  The  old  man  stopped.  &quot;Does  it  mat-  ter?  She  gave  it  to  me.&quot;  He  reached  into  his  pocket  and  ceremoniously  pulled  out  a  pack  of  cigarettes.  &quot;I  didn't  steal  it.&quot;  &quot;I'm  sure  you  didn't,&quot;  Berard  said.  &quot;I  just  wondered  how  she  did  it.&quot;  &quot;Well,  she  did  it,&quot;  theold  man  said  sharply.  He  lit  his  cigarette,  then  crumpled  the  pack  and  threw  it  into  the  carton  on  top  of  the  pumpkin.  &quot;Are  you  helping  [REDACTED];  Berard  realized  that  he  was  late  for  work,  but  the  thought  struck  him  like  a  distant  message.  He  had  too  manyrea-  sons  to  forget  work:  somehow  he  be-  lieved  he  might  just  yet  learn  to  scuba-  dive  today;  he  had  to  see  this  pumpkin  whole;  Max  might  call.  Besides,  there  " b"was  always  the  chance  of  cheap  fish  on  the  wharf.  He  could  rent  a  rod,  wait  for  the  charters  to  come  in.  He  nodded.  &quot;Sure,  I'll  help  you  out.&quot;  The  old  man  snorted  and  reached  down  into  the  box  with  the  net  in  his  fist.  &quot;Grab  it,&quot;  he  said  to  Berard.  &quot;We  gotta  lift  her  out.  I  put  bricks  in  the  bottom  of  the  box  so  it  wouldn't  tip  over.  Now  I  can't  budge  it.&quot;  Berard  bent  into  the  carton,  edged  the  net  beneath  the  pumpkin,  and  pulled  it  taut.  The  old  man  grunt-  ed  and  together  they  heaved  it  up  to  the  top  of  the  box,  where  it  stuck  for  a  moment.  The  weight  was  consider-  able,  and  the  old  man  moaned,  &quot;Oh,  sweet  Jesus,&quot;  with  his  cigarette  pinched  in  a  corner  of  his  mouth.  Only  the  fear  that  the  pumpkin  might  slip  and  plummet  down  on  top  of  the  pile  of  bricks  kept  Berard  holding  tight.  His  ribs  ached  as  they  heaved  again  and  again,  trying  in  vain  to  lift  the  pump-  kin  over  the  final  six  inches.  At  one  point  they  let  it  rest  on  the  corner  of  the  box  as  Berard  got  a  better  grip  on  the  net.  The  old  man  slapped  the  pumpkin  and  called  it  a  whore  just  as  Berard  lifted  suddenly,  jerking  the  pumpkin  into  a  tighter  wedge  and,  for  an  in-  stant,  raising  the  whole  box  off  the  ground.  Then  the  puripkin  was  stuck.  As  they  both  relaxed,  the  box  leaned  and  bent,  and  the  old  man  fell  to  his  knees  to  hold  it  there.  &quot;Get  the  snips,&quot;  the  old  man  said,  grunting.  &quot;Go  inside  and  get  my  tin  snips  behind  the  bar.  We  can  cut  it  out.&quot;  Berard  jumped  down  off  the  trailer.  The  old  man  was  breathing  heavily,  so  he  jogged  to  the  door  and  twisted  the  handle.  The  door  swung  open,  and  a  metallic  smell  blew  out  to  Berard.  Sev-  eral  welding  tanks  stood  strapped  to  one  wall,  and  opposite  them  stood  a  counter  on  top  of  which  rested  eight  perfect  wedges  of  fresh  white  apple  and  a  light  patina  of  sawdust  and  salt.  Berard  walked  behind  the  bar,  eying  the  apple  with  some  suspicion,  and  looked  around  for  the  tin  snips.  He  found  them  in  a  shoebox  full  of  tools,  grabbed  them,  and  walked  back  out  to  the  man.  A  thought  struck  him  as  he  stepped  out  into  the  sun:  where's  the  scuba  equipment?  Before  he  could  turn  back  to  take  a  second  look,  he  saw  the  old  man  lying  flat  on  his  back  on  the  trailer.  The  box  had  tilted  forward  completely  now  and  the  pumpkin  had  spilled  almost  all  the  way  out.  It  rested  awkwardly  between  the  man's  legs,  which  were  spread  around  it.  &quot;Are  you  all  right?&quot;  Berard  shouted.  He  ran  to  the  trailer  and  slapped  the  tin  snips  down.  The  man's  eyes  were  closed.  His  head  rolled  slightly.  &quot;My  arm,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;My  arm  hurts.&quot;  &quot;Is  it  broken?&quot;  Berard  said,  think-  ing  more  about  the  pumpkin.  He  put  his  hand  on  the  man's  shoulder.  &quot;Which  one?&quot;  &quot;My  balls,&quot;  the  old  man  said.  &quot;I'm  dying.&quot;  Berard  climbed  up  on  the  trailer  and  carefully  pulled  the  box  away  from  the  man,  until  the  pumpkin  slipped  free.  It  thudded  down  on  the  rusty  iron  bed  of  the  trailer,  and,  with  his  eyes  screwed,  the  old  man  looked  between  his  raised  knees  at  Berard,  who  reached  down  and  settled  the  pumpkin  into  place.  The  old  man  rolled  over  on  his  side,  with  both  hands  folded  between  his  thighs.  &quot;Do  you  need  a  doctor?&quot;  Ber-  ard  said.  &quot;Not  hardly.&quot;  His  breaths  were  short  and  dry.  Berard  could  see  a  bank  clock  on  a  building  across  the  inlet,  and  a  small  plane  flying  over  it.  He  reached  to  hand  theold  man  his  hand-  kerchief,  tapping  him  lightly  on  the  shoulder.  The  man's  T-shirt  was  pulled  up  around  the  middle  ofhis  back,  ex-  posing  the  region  of  flesh,  that  roll  of  fat  around  the  lower  back,  which  for  Berard  always  brought  to  mind  his  father.  His  father's  sweaters  and  shirts  had  always  crept  up  his  back,  giving  a  young  Berard  flashes  of  skin  at  the  most  unexpected  times-  as  he  piled  wood  in  Jan-  uary,  for  instance,  or  reached  down  into  an  engine  for  an  oily  bolt  dropped  on  top  of  some  nameless  assembly.  The  old  man's  skin  was  a  light  brown,  unlike  his  " b"father's,  but  marked  by  the  same  trans-  lucence,  the  same  spotting,  even  the  same  scattering  of  moles.  As  the  old  man  started  to  roll  from  sideto  side  in  preparation  for  raising  himself  up,  Berard  remembered  his  father  shooting  baskets  with  him  and  his  older  brother  Hank  in  the  middle  of  winter,  at  a  backboard  he  had  bought  at  a  public-school  auction  andhad  thrown  up  on  the  side  of  the  house  the  same  day.  His  father's  shot  was  awkward,  almost  palsied,  and  Berard  burned  with  embarrassment  for  him  with  each  shot.  For  him,he  remembered  telling  his  mother  later;  he  was  embarrassed  for  him,  not  by  him.  &quot;If  he  can't  shoot,  why  doesn't  he  just  forget  about  it?&quot;  he  asked  her.  While  they  shot,  Hank  taunted  his  father.  &quot;Your  gut's  hang-  ing,  Dad.&quot;  His  father  grunted  to  in-  dicate  concentration.  Head  back,  chin  pointed,  he  lifted  the  ball  up  and  with  a  strange  fluttering  push  shot  it  again  and  again,  missing  each  time.  Finally  the  two  boys  lost  interest  and  left  their  father  out  at  the  side  of  the  house  shooting  for  the  basket.  At  din-  nertime  he  came  in,  his  hands  stiff  and  black  from  the  skin  of  mud  on  the  wet  leather  ball.  &quot;I  just  made  six  in  a  row,&quot;  he  said,  running  his  hands  under  cold  water  tolose  the  numbness.  The  rest  of  them  were  at  the  table,  Hank  rolled  his  eyes,  plainly  skeptical.  &quot;Six  in  a  row,&quot;  his  father  said  again,  as  he  sat.  &quot;'That's  the  truth.&quot;  Later  Hank  told  Berard  their  father  was  a  liar.  Berard  pro-  tested.  They  argued  late  into  the  night,  from  one  bed  to  the  other.  Berard  never  saw  his  father  touch  the  basketball  again,  and  the  argument,  which  went  on  at  intervals  foryears,  was  never  settled.  When  he  finally  learned  Hank  was  tending  bar  in  [REDACTED],  he  went  to  him  to  tell  him  the  news  of  their  father's  death,  and  they  argued  it  one  more  time.  &quot;Six  in  a  row  my  ass,&quot;  his  brother  said.  &quot;Look,  he  was  an  under-  taker.  They  make  terrific  liars.&quot;  The  old  man  stood  upand  bentover  the  pumpkin.  &quot;We  need  to  lift  it,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;We  need  to  carry  it  around  back.&quot;  It  seemed  preposterous  to  Berard  that  theold  man  would  expect  the  two  of  them  to  be  able  to  carry  the  pumpkin  any  distance,  but  theold  man  quickly  rolled  the  pumpkin  to  the  edge  of  the  trailer,  hopped  down,  and  began  pulling  it  toward  him.  &quot;Come  on,  grab  ahold,&quot;  he  said,  slapping  hard  on  the  side  of  the  pumpkin.  As  they  slipped  the  pumpkin  off  the  trailer,  Berard  was  stunnedby  the  clumsy  weight,  and  after  only  a  few  steps  in  unison  with  the  man  he  asked  for  a  rest.  &quot;I've  been  doing  this  all  week,&quot;  the  old  man  said.  &quot;'This  one's  the  tough-  est,  but  I've  been  doing  it  by  myself  up  till  now.&quot;  Berard  didn't  believe  him.  He  smirked,  and  bent  at  the  knees  in  prep-  aration  to  pick  the  pumpkin  up  again.  They  lifted  together  and  slowly  made  their  way  down  the  alley  beside  the  shed.  Berard  got  a  look  inside  at  one  point,  and  caught  a  glimpse  of  a  phone.  The  thought  of  calling  in  to  work  crossed  his  mind  as  he  slid  his  feet  along  the  sand,  but  whatwould  he  say?  How  could  he  explain  his  absence?  He  didn't  have  a  story,  and  he  knew  it.  They  might  have  already  called  Grace  to  find  out  where  he  was.  This  reas-  sured  him,  since  he  knew  she  would  cover  for  him,  but  he  knew  then  he'd  have  to  explain  to  her.  &quot;Do  you  smoke?&quot;  the  old  man  wheezed.  The  two  of  them  faced  each  other  across  the  pumpkin  as  they  shuf-  fled  it  at  knee  level  down  the  alley.  Berard  nodded.  &quot;Let  me  have  a  square,  then.&quot;  THEY  set  the  pumpkin  down  and  sat  on  it  as  Berard  reached  into  his  breast  pocket  for  a  cigarette.  He  was  hot,  overheated,  he  knew,and  he  could  feel  his  heartbeat  with  the  fin-  gers  in  the  pocket.  The  inlet  ran  be-  hind  the  buildings,  and  the  end  of  the  alley,  Berard  could  now  see,  butted  up  against  a  small  seawall.  Something  around  the  corner  smelled  heavy  and  rotten,  compounding  the  light-headed-  ness  Berard  was  experiencing  from  the  heat  and  the  exertion.  The  build-  ings  on  either  side  of  him  were  sun-  bleached  and  dotted  with  various  salts  and  lichen.  The  two  men  lit  their  cigarettes  off  a  single  match  and  sat  in  silence.  On  the  road,  on  the  drawbridge,  the  cars  hummed  by,  running  the  smooth  and  steady  parallel  of  the  [REDACTED]  high-  way.  The  repetition,  the  slice  of  each  car  through  the  salt  air,  the  heavy  pull  of  the  barge  horns  on  the  bay  flattened  the  moment,  and  soon  all  that  seemed  " b"to  connect  Berard  to  the  world  was  the  pumpkin  itself.  It  rocked  slowly  under  the  weight  of  the  two  men  and  Berard  felt  that  it  was  a  third  presence  between  them.  He  scratched  his  black  oxfords  in  the  sand,  ground  his  cigarette  out,  and  waited  for  the  old  man  to  stand  up.  The  man  pulled  at  his  T-shirt,  wiped  his  brow,  then  slid  around  the  pumpkin  until  he  was  facing  the  opposite  direc-  tion  from  Berard.  Then,  somewhat  dramatically,  he  laid  his  head  down  on  his  knees  and  moaned.  This  startled  Berard,  who  stood  up  quite  suddenly  and  fidgeted  in  his  pock-  ets,  until  the  old  man  said,  &quot;Heartburn.  Christ,  my  heartburn.&quot;  &quot;Maybe  we  ought  to  leave  this  here,&quot;  Berard  said,  staring  at  the  back  of  the  man's  head.  On  his  neck,  just  below  his  hairline,  and  partly  obscured  by  the  collar  of  his  shirt,  Berard  could  see  some  kind  of  tattoo.  &quot;Maybe  you  ought  to  go  inside  and  rest.&quot;  The  old  man  grumbled  and,  after  pausing  in  this  position,  face  down,  staring  straight  at  the  ground  between  his  feet,  he  threw  down  his  cigarette  and  stood.  &quot;Bullshit,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Let's  have  some  fun.&quot;  All  that  I  have  is  his,  under  separate  cover,  and  we  are  the  mortgaged  nub  of  all  that  he  has.  Soon  enough  he  will  learn,  buying  long,  selling  short,  He  clapped  his  hands,  and  before  Berard  had  a  chance  to  ask  him  about  the  tattoo  he  was  bent  over  the  pump-  kin,  heaving  it  once  again.  They  hauled  the  pumpkin  around  to  the  back  of  the  building  on  this  next  leg  and  set  it  down  in  a  small  sandy  area  there.  A  long  bench,  with  several  empty  cans  and  five  screwdrivers  on  it,  stood  just  below  the  window.  The  back  door  was  closed,  although  its  screen  door  was  propped  open  by  another,  smaller  pumpkin.  On  the  ground,  in  the  stiff  grass  that  grew  in  patches,  were  the  remains  of  what  looked  like  twenty  or thirty  more  pumpkins,  all  in  varying  states  of  decay.  They  were  spread  evenly,  broken  and  split  in  pieces  of  all  sizes,  like  eggshells  across  the  bottom  of  a  sink.  Slowly  Berard  became  aware  of  something  else  in  the  air  besides  the  smell  of  rot.  Flies.  &quot;What  the  hell  is  this?&quot;  he  said,  unsure  of  exactly  what  he  was  looking  at.  Carnage.  Garbage.  Trouble.  &quot;It's  my  archery  range,&quot;  theold  man  said,  smiling  directly  at  Berard's  puzzlement.  Berard  didn't  take  him  seriously  at  first.  But  then  theold  man  quietly  picked  up  a  rather  sizable  bow  from  the  sand  and  pointed  to  a  garbage  can  full  of  arrows.  Berard  walked  to  it  and  picked  one  up.  It  was  slick  with  pump-  kin  guts.  All  of  them  were;  still  others,  Berard  found,  were  crusted  with  it.  He  could  see  now  that  many  of  the  shards  of  pumpkin  at  his  feet  had  a  latticework  of  small  holes  in  them.  &quot;You  want  to  try  it?&quot;  theold  man  said,  holding  out  the  bow  to  him.  Ber-  ard  shook  his  head.  The  old  man  snorted.  He  raised  the  bow  up  and  pulled  back  hard  on  the  draw,  staring  straight  over  his  fist,  " b"taking  a  sort  of  empty  aim  at  Berard.  He  held  like  that  for  a  minute,  and  al-  though  the  bow  was  not  loaded  Berard  found  it  un-     comfortable  to  be  a  poten-  tial  target.  &quot;What  are  you  shooting  at?&quot;  he  said.  The  old  man  eased  off  the  draw  and  took  a  deep  breath.  &quot;Pumpkins.&quot;  Berard  laughed.  The  old  man  walked  to  the  garbage  can,  pulled  an  arrow  out,  loaded,  drew,  and,  before  Berard  could  say  a  word,  fired  straight  at  the  giant  pumpkin.  The  arrow  breezed  low  and  hard  and  snapped  the  skin  of  the  pumpkin,  sinking  in  fully.  &quot;Jesus!&quot;  Berard  said,  thinking  theold  man  must  have  made  a  mistake.  A  motorboat  roared  by  them.  &quot;'Try  it!&quot;  theold  man  shouted.  &quot;It's  a  gas!&quot;  Berard  was  incredulous.  The  old  man  offered  up  the  bow  again.  Berard  waved  it  away.  &quot;Don't  waste  it,&quot;  he  said.  The  old  man  grinned,  spreading  his  dry  lips  tight  over  his  teeth.  &quot;Waste  what?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It's  only  a  pumpkin.  It's  nothing  valuable.  It's  not  a  paint-  ing.  Pumpkins  have  no  value.&quot;  Berard  searched  his  mind  for  recipes,  some  justification  for  not  wasting  the  pumpkin.  The  old  man  drew  another  arrow.  &quot;You  should  try  it,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'There's  nothing  like  it.&quot;  He  fired.  The  arrow  skidded  off  the  side  of  the  pumpkin  and  landed  harmlessly  in  the  sand  beyond  it.  &quot;My  sister  didn't  want  them.  They  were  left  over  from  Halloween.  All  except  this  one.  This  one's  the  last  of  them.  She  wouldn't  sell  this  one.&quot;  Berard  decided  to  leave  then.  He  had  had  enough  of  theold  man.  He  hated  him  for  destroying  the  pumpkin,  al-  though  in  truth  he  couldn't  think  of  anything  betterto  do  with  it.  He  could  have  taken  it  home  with  him.  There  would  have  been  photos.  Nick  and  Sophie  wrapping  themselves  around  it  lovingly.  As  Berard  started  to  say  goodbye,  theold  man  bent  over  and  moaned  about  his  heartburn  again.  He  fell  to  KEEP?  Watehing  the  sand  abruptly,  dropping  the  bow.  \xc2\xabWait  a  second,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Wait  just  a  second.&quot;  Berard  could  not  shake  the  feeling  that  the  old  man  was  talking  to  some-  one  else.  He  bent  down  and  put  his  hand  on  the  man's  knee.  &quot;Are  you  all  right?&quot;  he  said.  The  old  man  looked  up,  and  Berard  could  see  that  he  was  in  terrific  pain.  His  face  was  flushed  a  deep  red,  and  his  eyes  were  open  wide,  in  a  look  of  wonder  or  fear-Berard  couldn'tbe  sure  which.  He  clutched  his  chest  tightly,  balled  his  T-shirt  up  in  his  fist.  Berard  felt  a  rush  ofpanic.  &quot;Lean  back,&quot;  he  said,  reassured  by  the  sound  of  his  own  voice.  &quot;I'll  call  a  doctor.&quot;  He  stood,  took  another  look  at  the  old  man,  whose  breathing  was  forced  and  irregular  now,  and  turned  back  toward  the  building.  As  he  went  in,  out  of  the  sunlight  heheard  theold  man  respond  in  whispers:  &quot;Yes,  yes.&quot;  HE  thought  for  a  moment  of  calling  Max  Webber,  but  dialled  the  op-  erator  instead.  He  had  a  flash  just  then,  in  the  moment  before  the  operator  an-  swered.  It  was  a  dream,  really,  fully  developed  and  complete,  in  which  he  called  Max  and  asked  him  to  come  out  to  the  marina  at  once.  &quot;Here,&quot;  he  heard  himself  say,  &quot;is  my  scuba  man.  Can  you  help  him?&quot;  Things  could  be  explained  then;  his  original  lie  would  mean  nothing  in  this  equation.  Max  would  bend  over  the  man,  bring  him  up  and  out,  heal  him  and  cool  him,  and  all  would  be  forgotten.  Berard  suddenly  found  that  he  was  yelling  into  the  phone.  &quot;Jesus,  help!&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  need  some  help  here!&quot;  The  operator  switched  him  to  an  emergency  room,  which  took  a  mo-  ment  and  gave  him  time  to  despise  himself  for  thinking  about  Max  at  all.  He  held  on  to  the  phone,  stretched  the  cordout  to  its  fullest  in  order  to  get  a  look  out  the  door  at  the  old  man.  Berard  could  see  only  his  legs.  This  made  him  more  frantic.  &quot;Hello!&quot;  he  shouted  into  the  phone.  Soon  a  young  doctor  was  on  the  line,  calming  him,  giving  him  instructions,  taking  his  name  and  the  address,  which  Berard  didn't  know  exactly.  &quot;How  long?&quot;  he  said  to  the  doctor.  &quot;'Ten  minutes,  at  the  outside.&quot;  This  didn't  reassure  Berard,  but  he  decided  to  tryto  appear  as  calm  as  possibleas  he  walked  back  outside  to  the  man.  Right  away,  though,  perhaps  even  before  he  turned  the  corner  of  the  doorway,  Berard  knew  the  man  was  dead.  He  lay  flat  and  heavy,  with  his  legs  splayed  the  way  they  had  been  around  the  pumpkin  only  minutes  be-  fore.  His  skin  was  pallid,  his  eyes  open  and  frozen.  Berard  knelt  down  over  " b"him  and  pounded  his  chest,  as  he  had  seen  others  do.  He  pushed  breath  into  the  man's  lungs,  as  calmly  and  evenly  as  he  could.  The  man's  mouth  tasted  like  mus-  tard.  For  an  instant  Berard  forgot  a  lifetime  of  kisses  and  felt  amazement  that  a  human  being  had  a  taste.  A  man's  taste  defined  him.  Here  was  this  sour  old  man.  Mustard.  He  breathed  hard  into  the  man's  mouth.  Vinegar.  He  put  his  head  on  the  man's  chest,  listened  for  something.  He  breathed  again.  Rotting  fruit.  Again.  Pickled  eggs.  Again.  Upholstery.  Soon  he  quit,  and,  breathless  from  the  exertion  and  emotion,  he  sat  next  to  the  old  man  and  waited  for  the  ambu-  lance.  It  didn't  come-at  least  not  right  away-and  Berard  wrapped  his  arms  around  his  knees  and  turned  his  back  to  the  sun  to  warm  himself.  He  stood,  and  walked  around  the  man's  body.  As  a  boy,  he  had  seen  dead  bodies  in  his  father's  funeral  home,  but  he  had  never  actually  seen  anyone  die,  and  the  calm  in  the  man's  face  seemed  contra-  dictory  to  the  tension  Berard  felt.  There  would  be  the  explanations-to  the  police,  to  Grace,  to  his  friends  and  children.  The  story  would  get  around;  he'd  be  forced  to  correct  people  on  the  details  if  the  facts  were  to  be  kept  straight.  &quot;I  was  there  to  pick  up  scuba  equip-     ment,&quot;  he  would  say.  No,  not  that.  &quot;I  was  there  helping  this  old  man  move  a  pumpkin.&quot;  That  seemed  right,  and  it  was.  It  was  the  truth.  He  wanted  a  piece  of  that,  wanted  to  hold  on  to  it.  He  looked  around  to  get  a  good  picture  of  the  place,  grabbed  the  old  man's  leg,  touched  his  cheek,  then  stood  up  to  look  out  over  the  inlet.  Freeze  this,  he  thought.  Hold  this.  He  picked  up  the  old  man's  bow  and  bounced  it  in  his  hand,  marvelling  at  its  lightness  and  balance.  In  the  dis-  tance,  to  the  north,  he  heard  the  ambu-  lance  coming  toward  him  now.  This  released  him  from  the  moment  and  again  he  could  hear  the  questions  from  his  friends,  and  could  see  the  story  expanding  and  contracting,  the  reality  of  this  day  all  but  forgotten.  As  the  ambulance  raced  up  and  over  the  drawbridge  and  then  straight  by  the  marina  and  off  into  the  distance  again,  Berard  leaned  down  and  picked  up  an  arrow  he  found  in  the  sand.  He  laid  it  on  the  bow,  drew,  and  fired  at  the  pumpkin.  He  missed,  having  aimed  too  high,  and  the  arrow  stuck  in  the  sand  beyond  it,  making  a  sound  like  an  emery  board  on  thick  toenails.  The  sound  gave  Berard  a  chill,  as  it  always  did  when  Grace  filed  her  nails  in  his  presence.  He  walked  to  the  garbage  can  and  pulled  out  another  arrow.  He  aimed  carefully  this  time,  and  as  he  released  he  knew  that  the  arrow  would  hit  the  pumpkin.  It  flew  in  a  rigid  arc  and  struck  the  pumpkin  about  three-  quarters  of  the  way  down,  sinking  in  about  five  inches.  Berard  grabbed  an-  other  arrow,  took  three  or  four  steps  toward  the  pumpkin,  and  drew  back  on  the  bow  as  far  as  he  could.  His  arms  wavered;  his  fingers  hurt.  He  fixed  his  aim  and  released.  The  bowstring  snapped  taut.  The  arrow  was  gone.  He  heard  the  cut  through  the  air,  and  the  slice  of  the  shaft  into  the  pumpkin.  Thoop.  He  stood  for  a  moment,  struck  by  the  physicality  of  the  event.  Before,  when  theold  man  fired,  it  had  seemed  de-  structive  and  arbitrary.  But  now  he  was  thrilled  by  all  of  this.  He  took  another  arrow  and  shot  it,  striking  the  sideof  the  pumpkin  and  catching.  The  sound  seemed  less  rich  than  the  last  shot,  so  he  fired  again.  It  was  a  good  while  before  the  ambu-  lance  arrived,  but  when  it  finally  did  Berard  was  breathless.  He  had  riddled  the  pumpkin  with  arrows,  and  it  lay  like  a  dead  animal  in  the  distance,  slick  arrows  protruding  chaotically  from  its  hide.  Berard  heard  the  ambulance  fi-  nally  make  the  right  turn  into  the  marina.  He  reached  down  and  wiped  the  sweat  from  his  hands  onto  his  pant  legs  and  set  the  bow  down  next  to  the  old  man.  When  the  tires  of  the  ambu-  lance  finally  skidded  to  a  stop  on  the  gravel  in  front  of  the  shed,  Berard  looked  over  the  water  at  sunlight  in  the  black  glass  of  the  office  buildings.  The  brackish  waves  eased  in  and  out  against  the  concrete  and  the  birds  barrelled  down  from  above.  The  old  man,  with  his  bow  at  his  side,  lay  in  a  meadow  of  sand  and  pumpkin  shells.  Berard  squinted,  shaded  his  eyes.  When  he  heard  the  clattering  of  the  gurney,  the  crackle  of  the  two-way  radio,  the  anxious  voices  calling  into  the  front  door  of  the  building,  he  turned  and  walked  slowly  out  to  those  who  had  come  to  him.  He  had  so  many  things  to  tell  them.  "