 b"ARE  you  my  friend?  You  know  me  -I  stand  with  the  common  man.Nothing  is  more  fun  than  clowning  around  with  you.  On  the  other  hand,  there  are  one  or  two  things  ...  You  know  me.  I'm  right  there  for  you,  but  one  thing  is,  I'd  like  any  friend  of  mine  to  have  his  own  boat.  You  know,  I  stand  with  the  common  man,  and  if  my  friend  came  up  with  a  twenty-footer  because  that  was  all  he  could  afford  because  of  tuition  bills,  and  he  didn't  really  have  any  other  way  to  get  those  bills  paid-like  giving  them  tohis  wife  to  pay  or  getting  the  children  involved  in  some  kind  of  job  that  would  benefit  themselves-O.K.  But  I  would  like  my  friend  to  keep  his  end  up,  which  will  do  Aim  a  lot  of  good  and  help  us  to  be  like  equals.  So,  when  you  come  to  my  party,  will  you  dress  funny?  At  least  wear  a  big  floppy  woman's  hat,  O.K.?  If  you  need  a  reference,  it's  page  40,  the  Times,  June  26,  1988,  old  Mrs.  Suydam  Cut-  ting.  Wear  that  one.  You'll  look  great.  Don't  forgetthe  boom  box.  O.K.,  I  don't  know  if  you  can  do  it  in  time  forthe  party,  but  could  you  gain  about  twenty  pounds?  It  would  add  to  the  effect.  I  don't  know  the  level  of  commitment  you're  comfortable  with.  Pd  do  it  for  you  if  you  asked,  but  you  didn't.  Could  I  put  this  razor  in  your  pocket?  We'll  use  it  later.  Do  you  think  they  have  enough  transvestites  here?  What's  your  favorite  whiskey?  Ancient  City?  You've  got  to  be  kidding.  Ancient  City-that's  got  to  be  one  of  those  premium  whiskeys.  You  know  what  I  like?  I  like  Pub  Town.  I  drink  Pub  Town  whiskey.  Costs  a  dollar  a  litre.  I'm  not  kidding.  It's  practically  free.  They  make  it  in  New  Jersey.  I  stand  with  the  common  man.  Even  though  I'm  successful,  I  still  need  a  friend.  So  would  you  mind  taking  this  sim-  ple  test?  Here,  just  fill  in  the  blanks:  Americans  who  have  ______--  are  more  likely  to  feel  at  home  with  a  difficult  text  than  with  _________-  A.  firm  erect  nipples  .....  turgid  popu-  lar  works  B.  real  social  gifts  .....  their  own  kids  C.  an  eighth-grade  education  ....  rabies  D.  television  .....a  slow,  painful  death  Now,  this  brings  us  to  your  drinking  problem.  You  don't  heve  a  drinking  problem?  Fine,  I  don't  have  a  problem  with  that,  believe  me,  but  just  let  me  tell  you  how  things  are  out  here  on  the  Coast.  They  are  all  cold  sober  here.  The  sober  people  here  aren't  like  sober  people  in  [REDACTED].  You  probably  have  a  mistaken  idea  about  sobriety.  Out  here  anyone  who  is  anyone  is  sober.  The  other  day  I  went  to  a  party  and  everyone  was  sober.  It  brought  me  face  to  face  with  who  I  am-an  ex-  tremely  successful  person.  I  tell  you,  it's  a  great  change  for  the  country  and  for  the  film  community.  You  know,  it  seems  to  me  the  coun-  try  has  been  on  a  twenty-year  binge  and  now  we  have  to  wise  up.  Just  because  a  person  has  all  the  material  things  doesn't  mean  another  person  can't  do  him  a  favor.  Would  you  dress  a  little  neater?  Could  you  do  that  much  for  me?  Dd  do  it  for  you,  except  I  already  dress  neat.  Would  you  lower  your  voice?  Everybody  is  looking.  I'm  sorry,  Emul,  my  friend  is  very  emotion-  al,  he's  in  therapy.  I  don't  know  which  therapy,  Emul.  We'll  calm  him  right  down.  Well,  I'll  tell  you,  I  guess  I  have  changed.  I'm  aiming  a  little  higher.  I  feel  that,  my  friend-and  I'm  levelling  with  you  now,  because  you've  got,  de-  spite  this  last  shouting  match,  you've  got  a  good  shot  to  be  my  friend.  O.K.?  So  I'lltell  you,  I  think  my  friend  should  be  a  filmmaker.  I  think  he  should  be  a  novelist  and  a  filmmaker.  Also,  I'd  want  my  friend  to  be  a  feared Wall  Street  analyst.  Just  listen.  I'm  mot  asking  for  the  sun  and  the  moon.  I've  worked  it  all  out.  SerenrE:  My  place,  about  8  a.m.  I'm  still  in  bed.  You,  MY  FRIEND,  stop  by.  &quot;What's  up?&quot;  I  ask.  &quot;Not  you,  that's  for  sure,&quot;  you  say  in  a  friendly  way.  (Secretly  you  admire  my  attractive  way  of  projecting  a  cer-  tain  laziness.)  &quot;What's  up  with  you?&quot;  I  ask.  &quot;Working  on  my  column,&quot;  you  say.  Then  you  give  me  stock  tips.  I  THINK  you  ought  to  learn  the  names  of  my  favorite  rock  groups  from  the  fifties  and  sixties.  Your  gen-  eration  doesn't  know  these  things  as  well  as  it  should.  My  favorites  are:  Allen  and  the  Harps  Suzette  Blue  The  Alladins  The  Golden  Embers  The  [REDACTED]  Pinks  Margaret  Soul  Then  we'll  head  deep  into  the  coun-  try-I  mean  the  [REDACTED]  of  A.  I've  got  the  truck.  A  couple  of  the  towns  we'll  visit  will  be  Oil  City,  where  they  have  a  good  metal  bridge  going  over  a  river  right  in  the  middle  of  the  place,  and  Parkersburg,  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED].  People  will  welcome  us.  We  will  look  at  their  houses.  &quot;Drop  me  off  at  my  house.  See,  this  is  where  I  live.  Maybe  I'll  see  you  again,&quot;  someone  will  say.  See  how  much  fun  it  will  be?  Getting  the  point?  It'll  be  worth  the  effort.  If  I  butt  you  in  the  stomach,  will  you  butt  me  in  the  stomach?  If  I  give  a  deposition  in  your  divorce  action,  will  you  give  me  one?  Could  I  put  this  razor  in  your  pocket?  We'll  use  it  later.  What  is  your  opinion  of  the  Second  World  War?  I'dreally  like  to  know.  Sometimes  I  think  it  was  the  crucible  in  which  our  manhood  was  formed;  sometimes  Ifeel  it  was  a  breather  be-  tween  radio  and  TV. "