 b"MY  falling  down  the  stairs  and  B  rattling  the  rail  supports,  Long  wakes  Andrea,  a  displaced  Angeleno,  who  thinks,  Earthquake,  and  bolts  into  the  hall  just  as  Long  arrives  there,  his  swollen  face  coming  to  rest  on  her  pale,  bare  feet.  This  is  how  Long  meets  his  wife,  who,  ten  years  and  two  children  later,  tacks  an  unopened  envelope  from  the  Chicago  Bank  to  the  kitchen  door  and  writes  a  note  on  the  back,  terse  as  a  slap,  &quot;Goodbye,  you  shit.&quot;  With  daugh-  ter  Leslie  by  the  hand  and  baby  Tim  cradled  in  arm,  Andrea  leaves  Long.  He  smokes,  sitting  in  boxers  at  the  Formica  table  beside  the  dieseling  re-  frigerator,  turning  the  envelope  with  his  fingers-the  same  motion  he  once  used  to  roll  joints.  Inside  the  envelope  is  a  notice  of  bounced  checks:  Fenwick  Liquors,  Atcheson's  Drugs,  the  Spot  Market,  Fenwick  Li-  quors,  Lou's  Barbecue  Ribs.  Reading  it,  final-  ly,  after  crumpling  the  envelope  in  anguish,  Long  decides  to  quit  drinking.  He  empties  long-  necked  bottles  into  the  sink,  inhaling  the  odors,  which  strike  him  like  memories:  elusive,  sweet,  more  shadow  than  sub-  stance.  He  remembers  an  afternoon  from  ear-  ly  in  their  marriage,  a  Saturday  celebration  after  his  first  week  as  a  reporter  for  the  Chicago  Tribune.  The  sunlight  is  the  color  of  lemonade,  and  Andrea,  in  a  stodgy  green  bi-  kini  that  almost  covers  her  navel,  runs  toward  him  along  the  water's  edge,  the  beach  on  Lake  [REDACTED]  glis-  tening  like  the  feathers  of  an  exotic  bird.  CT  he  water's  heaven.&quot;  She  tinks  her  voice-a  little  rising  squeak  to  end  each  sen-  tence.  &quot;I  just  love  this,&quot;  she  says,  tink,  ing,  her  smile  brighter  than  the  sun.  Long,  four  beers  closer  to  home  than  she,  lies  barebacked  on  a  rust-colored  towel  too  short  for  the  beach,  his  skin  radiant  with  love  for  his  wife,  blister-  ing  with  love.  &quot;Come  here,&quot;  he  says.  Stretching  his  arm,  taking  her  hand,  he  pulls  her  to  him  as  if  there's  nothing  to  it,  as  if  to  say,  Why  are  so  many  people  lonely,  anyway?  &quot;You're  the  best.&quot;  He  kisses  her  lush,  hard  mouth.  &quot;Drink  a  beer  with  me,&quot;  he  says.  Then  he  says,  &quot;This  is  the  best  moment  of  my  life.&quot;  TWO  years  later,  the  day  his  story  in  the  Tribune  runs  drunk  with  errors  and  he  and  his  editor  are  fired,  Long  pauses  on  the  sidewalk  and  leans  against  the  newspaper  building's  brick  wall,  mind  clouded  by  one  part  vodka and  two  humiliation,  struggling  with  cigarette  and  match,  fingers  shaking.  His  editor,  in  raincoat  and  gray  hat,  an  electric  pencil  sharpener  in  one  hand,  briefcase  and  a  framed  photograph  in  the  other,  deposits  his  belongings  on  the  sidewalk  and  straightens  Long's  collar,  then  lights  the  impossible  ciga-  rette.  Lifting  the  frame  to  show  Long,  he  says,  &quot;Jerry,  Jeff,  James,&quot;  his  finger  pausing  at  the  miniature  faces  of  his  sons.  &quot;I'm  sorry,&quot;  Long  says.  His  editor  nods,  staring  into  the  photograph.  &quot;Jeff  is  squinting,&quot;  he  says  sadly.  &quot;In  every  picture  we  have,  Jeff  is  squinting.&quot;  &quot;'You  won't  have  trouble  finding  work,&quot;  Long  assures  him.  His  editor  presses  the  photograph  to  his  chest.  &quot;You  will,&quot;  he  says.  Long  is  wounded  by  this  but  does  not  feel  pain.  The  muscles  in  his  arms,  the  sweetness  at  the  center  ofhis  chest,  the  glowing  cores  of  his  legs  already  sing  to  him  the  melody  of  de-  sire,  the  haunting  bodily  chorus  of  drink.  Negrophile,  Chica-  go  South  Side  whore  hunter  before  he  fell  on  the  bare  feet  of  An-  drea,  Long  heads  for  a  jazz  bar,  remember-  ing  the  cold  afternoon  years  earlier  when  he  had  stumbled  across  Coltrane  playing  there  for  almost  nobody,  blowing  like  he  owned  the  air,  like  sound  was  something  wasted  by  others.  This  time,  the  bar  has  nothing  playing  but  the  stoic  talkof  bartender  and  barmaid,  both  black,  who  re-  member  him  from  other  times.  &quot;Hey,&quot;  Long  says.  Bartender  smiles.  Barmaid  takes  his  elbow,  her  perfume  straightening  his  spine.  There  are  little  bulges  beneath  her  eyes,  and  her  nose  is  the  shape  ofa  squatting  child.  Long  remembers  sleeping  with  this  " b"woman  a  week  before  he  met  Andrea.  She  sits  him  in  a  green  vinyl  booth.  &quot;I  just  got  axed,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;I'd  say  you  look  more  tanked  than  axed,&quot;  she  tells  him.  &quot;Vodka  Collins?&quot;  she  says.  &quot;Rum  and  Coke?  Double  Henry  straight  up?  Highball?  Boiler-  maker?  What  day  of  the  month  you  drinking  now?&quot;  \xc2\xabSurprise  me,&quot;  he  says,  pulling  the  ballpoint  from  between  her  breasts.  He  scrawls  numbers,  black  and  crooked,  on  a  white  napkin.  &quot;Call  my  wife,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;When  I'm  good  and  drunk.&quot;  &quot;Pity  the  girl  who  be  your  bride,&quot;  she  tells  him,  then  makes  the  call  before  she  brings  him  anything.  Andrea  arrives  in  jeans  and  sandals,  her  little  fists  jammed  into  her  back  pockets,  calling  him  Honey,  pleading  with  him  to  come  home,  crying,  finally,  before  he  agrees  to  go.  He  says,  &quot;I've  come  to  no  good.&quot;  And  she,  &quot;Don't.&quot;  A  year  and  a  half  later,  Long,  now  a  copy  editor  for  Lendel,Lendel,  Holmes  &amp;  Marquesee,  hating  the  ties  and  jack-  ets  of  the  young  lawyers,  the  sparkling  black  shoes  of  the  old  ones,  takes  An-  drea,  six  months  pregnant,  to  a  dinner  party  at  a  senior  partner's  house.  The  high,  gabled  windows,  the  door's  low  black  transom  incapacitate  Long  even  beforethe  maid,  better  dressed  thanhe  or  his  wife,  says,  &quot;Circle  round  back.  You're  forty-five  minutes  late.  Manny  is  going  to  hear  from  me.&quot;  &quot;'We're  guests,&quot;  Andrea  says,  but  Long  cannot  enter.  Sober,  hateful,  and  intolerably  sad,  Long  lists  back  to  their  Nova.  &quot;What's  come  over  you?'&quot;  Andrea  asks  him.  &quot;I  can't  go  in  there.&quot;  He  speaks  into  the  crook  of  his  arm  and  the  roof  of  the  car.  Believing  the  weight  of  his  sorrow  may  crush  the  Nova's  top,  he  straight-  ens  long  enough  to  crawl  inside  and  lie  face  down  on  the  front  seat.  Andrea  goes  around  the  car,  opens  the  door,  takes  his  head  into  her  hands  gently,  as  ifit  werean  overripe  squash,  bruised  and  too  soft  to  eat.  &quot;That  woman  is  a  foolish  bitch,&quot;  she  whis-  pers.  &quot;Don't  let  her  spoil  our  night.&quot;  Long,  wishing  to  explain  his  sudden  and  impossible  fatigue,  the  weight  and  dimension  of  his  sadness,  forms  his  mouth  into  the  tent  that  will  become  his  wife's  name,  but  begins  instead  to  weep-a  convulsive  breath-sucking  stammer  of  mucous  and  tears. Andrea  flattens  her  hands  against  the  back  of  his  head,  thrusts  against  it  into  the  groaning  seat.  &quot;You  bastard,&quot;  she  says.  She  thrusts  again,  says,  &quot;You  shit.&quot;  She  wipes  the  oil  of  his  hair  onto  his  gray  jacket  and  whips  the  door  shut.  &quot;Stay  here,&quot;  she  tells  him.  &quot;Rot  here.&quot;  She  walks  with  the  conviction  of  a  priest  to  the  great  transomed  door,  while  Long,  still  crying,  nose  broken  and  bleeding,  lip  split  and  bleeding,  gasps  for  air.  Before  he  can  stop  crying,  his  chest  coughing  forward  still,  with  the  rhythm  of  a  dying  locomotive,  thecar  door  opens  and  Andrea  lifts  his  head  into  her  hands  again.  &quot;Here,  my  baby,&quot;  she  whispers,  an  offering  sweat-  ing  in  her  hand,  leaving  a  circle  on  the  maternity  corduroy.  Vodka  and  water,  a  tall  glass,  clear  as  sanity,  its  opening  a  perfect  circle.  A  second  vodka  rests  on  the  asphalt  by  Andrea's  stockinged  foot.  He  drinks.  ENG  hallucinates  and  searches  the  bathroom  cabinet  for  cold  medi-  cine  or  cough  syrup.  He  does  not  leave  the  apartment,  which  has  expanded  now,  growing  first  with  his  family's  absence  and  now  with  his  delirium,  the  white  shoulders  of  the  bathtub  swelling  wide  as  a  car,  bedroom  corners  stretch-  ing  obtusely,  becoming  almost  round,  cupboards  blooming  at  his  touch-  great  flowers  whose  nectar  he  cannot  locate.  There  are  a  thousand  placesin  his  apartment  where  the  members  of  his  family  do  not  reside,  a  million  places  where  there  is  no  liquor.  Without  Andrea,  without  his  chil-  dren,  without  drink,  he  is  clothes  with-  out  consciousness.  Gravity  exerts  no  pull.  He  wakes  screaming,  clawing  maggots  from  his  arms,  and  cannot  run  to  the  bathroom  to  puke  because  he  slept  on  the  ceiling.  Vomit  trails  from  his  mouth  to  the  bed  far  below  and  becomes  his  face,  a  monster  of  his  own  making.  His  elbows  bleed  from  the  falls,  ceiling  to  floor.  When  he  is  capable  of  movement  once  more,  Andrea  begins  to  call  from  the  next  room  at  regular  intervals.  He  always  looks;  she  is  never  there.  Shak-  ing  himself  from  madness,  he  seeks  her.  He  shoves  his  faceinto  the  kitchen  sink,  inhaling,  but  the  odors  of  alcohol  are  gone.  Asleep,  he  is  sane,  dreaming  his  life,  talking  with  Andrea  about  the  noises  of  furniture,  the  creaks  and  ticks,  imi-  tating  them  as  best  he  can,  laughing.  She  tells  him  the  story  of  her  deaf  grandmother,  who  telephoned  to  say  " b"that  her  soup  this  morning  from  a  can  red  and  white  like  the  flag  needed  not  even  water:  open,  pour,  heat.  &quot;Isn't  this  the  life?&quot;  she'd  say,  then  talk  about  the  headlines,  the  funnies,  the  photo-  graphs  of  famous  people  page  after  page.  &quot;For  a  quarter.  How  can  you  beat  it?&quot;  she'd  say,  then  read  Royko  word  for  word,  the  receiver  on  the  other  end  resting  on  the  kitchen  counter,  holding  the  pages  of  Andrea's  cookbook  open.  In  the  dream,  they  talk  of  the  future;  in  the  dream,  they  have  one.  Schools  not  good  enough  for  their  Leslie,  how  they  will  keep  Tim  from  becoming  macho,  the  route  they  will  drive  to  [REDACTED]  come  summer-the  endless,  banal,  and  mysterious  details  of  the  life  Long  loves.  He  wakes  to  madness.  TWO  weeks  into  a  stay  of  eight  at  the  rehabilitation  center,  Long  receives  forms  to  sign-forms  already  bearing  the  slip  and  glide  of  Andrea's  hand.  Her  signature  stops  his  breath.  She  cohabits  his  dreams-sharing  his  narrow  bed,  cursing  the  thin  striped  mattress,  the  antiseptic  smell,  the  gur-  gle  of  television  voices-but  this  signa-  ture,  so  specifically  Andrea,  so  deeply  real,  mocks  the  dreams  and  makes  his  bowels  ache.  Long  studies  the  pages  for  an  ad-  dress,  removing  paper  clips,  reading  confidential  reports  of  doctors  and  counsellors,  who  refer  to  him  as  &quot;Cli-  ent  Long,&quot;coming  finally  to  a  stark  page  of  familiar  script,  labelled  Spouse's  Report.&quot;  He  reads.  My  husband  has  been  a  big  drinker  since  before  I  knew  him.  He  drinks  mornings,  afternoons,  nights.  He  was  drunk  when  we  married.  He  lost  jobs  by  working  drunk,  but  he  always  found  new  ones.  He  is  a  kind  man,  and  people  like  that.  He's  not  an  ugly  drunk.  When  he  is  a  little  tipped,  he's  funny,  but  that  only  lasts  a  while.  How  he  got  this  way  is  some  mystery  there  doesn't  seem  an  end  to.  He  loves  his  children.  He  loves  me.  He  could  have  been  a  good  man.  Long  tears  the  report  twenty  times.  A  dull-eyed  nurse,  entering  the  room  with  a  compartmentalized  tray  of  food,  screams  at  him  as  if  he  had  threatened  her.  &quot;You  can't  read  this!&quot;  she  says,  snatching  the  papers.  &quot;You  were  just  supposed  to  put  your  name!&quot;  Then,  &quot;I  could  lose  my  job.&quot;  He  apologizes,  smiling,  having  found,  before  her  entrance,  the  phonenumber  of  his  wife  and  an  address  in  Joliet.  The  nurse  gathers  the  scraps,  slips  them  into  the  pockets  of  her  uni-  form,  directs  an  index  finger  at  his  wicked  grin.  &quot;Don't  you  tell,&quot;  she  says,  glaring,  then  smiling.  &quot;I  mean  it,&quot;  she  tells  him,  glaring  again.  He  says,  &quot;Ineed  to  place  a  call.&quot;  Shaking  her  head,  she  says  once  more,  &quot;I  could  lose  my  job.&quot;  Then  she  adds,  &quot;Family?&quot;  He  nods.  ENG  lifts  a  quarter  from  the  puddle  of  coins  on  his  lap  and  slips  it  into  the  pay  phone.  His  chair  faces  the  wall.  The  nurse  smokes  a  ciga-  rette  furtively  and  paces  the  hallway.     -KatTtHa  Pout  Andrea  answers  after  the  second  ring.  &quot;Andy,&quot;  Long  says,  &quot;how  I've  missed  you,  you  don't  know.  How  are  you?  How  have  you  been?  Haven't  had  a  drink  since  you  left.  Not  one.  Neigh-  bors  called  the  police.  You  must  know  that.  Not  a  drop.  Don't  you  want  to  see  me?  Don't  you  want  to  talk?  I  could  still  be  a  good  man.&quot;  'You  weren't  supposed  to  see  that,&quot;  she  says,  angry  or  embarrassed  orpre-  tending-Long  needs  to  see  her  face  to  know.  He  listens  while  she  breathes  into  the  phone,  just  breathes.  &quot;Leslie  cut  her  thumb,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;It's  not  serious.  A  little  nick.&quot;  &quot;And  Tim?  How  is  Tim?&quot;  \xc2\xab'Tim  is  fine.  It's  Leslie.  She  misses  you.  She  doesn't  understand.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  understand,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Oh,  I  do,  but  everything  has  changed.  I'm  better.  I'm  getting  bet-  ter.&quot;  &quot;I  took  them  to  the  beach,&quot;  Andrea  tells  him.  &quot;It  was  too  crowded.  You  wouldn't  believe  the  mess  people  make.&quot;  &quot;'You  miss  me,&quot;  Long  says.  &quot;You  " b"want  to  give  it  another  chance.&quot;  She  doesn't  say  anything,  then  she  says,  &quot;I  don't  know.&quot;  &quot;You  know,&quot;  he  says.  Then  he  says,  &quot;You  know,&quot;  LONG  leaves  the  center  in  a  wheelchair  to  please  the  nurses,  who  claim  to  be  pleasing  invisible  insurance  companies.  Andrea  pushes  the  chair,  Leslie  clutching  her  skirt.  Long  holds  baby  Tim  in  his  arms.  They  move  to  [REDACTED],  where  Long  has  found  work  as  a  reporter  through  the  mail  and  over  the  phone.  The  pay  is  bad;  the  desert  hot.  Andrea  misses  trees,  grass,  rain,  snow,  but  mostly  trees:  oaks,  maples,  birches,  the  dying  elms.  Sometimes  she  misses  Long,  the  way  he  used  to  be.  In  her  purse  is  a  scrap  of  paper,  a  phone  num-  ber  she  dials  when  she  misses  her  husband  and  has  to  let  someone  know.  Together,  they  go  to  meetings.  An-  drea  talks  of  her  happiness  and  her  yearning;  Long  says  it's  getting  through  the  morning,  if  he  can  just  make  it  through  the  morning.  The  others  at  the  meeting  say  the  same  things  or  different  things  that  mean  the  same.  Tim  gets  heat  rash  and  no  longer  sleeps  through  the  night.  The  doctor  gives  them  a  cream  and  white  powder.  They  buy  a  tiny  electric  fan  and  attach  it  to  his  crib.  Leslie  breaks  her  leg  falling  from  her  tricycle-a  fall  that  shouldn't  have  left  a  bruise.  A  white  cast,  calcium  supplements.  &quot;I  hate  to  see  them  unhappy,&quot;  An-  drea  tells  Long,  her  voice  tinking  as  if  she  might  cry.  They  are  in  their  swel-  tering  bed,  the  top  sheet  crumpled  on  the  floor,  Andrea  in  bra  and  panties,  Long  in  his  boxers.  Tim  is  sobbing,  the  third  time  he  has  wakened  in  the  past  hour.  They  lie  waiting  to  see  if  he  will  stop.  &quot;Children  should  be  happy,&quot;  she  says,  touching  a  strap  of  her  nurs-  ing  bra,  rolling  onto  her  side  to  face  Long.  &quot;I'd  been  dreaming,&quot;  he  tells  her.  &quot;When  I  drank,  I  would  dream  about  you.  Now  I  dream  about  liquor.&quot;  Tak-  ingher  hand,  he  pulls  her  to  him,  feeling  her  resistance:  her  breasts  are  aching,  her  child  is  crying,  her  hus-  band  dreams  of  drinking.  Andrea  whispers,  &quot;I  wish  you  could  drink  a  little.  Every  now  and  then.&quot;  Her  breathing  is  soft,  hot  against  his  cheek.  The  baby's  cries  grow  dim,  the  tiny  fan  whirs  steadily.  &quot;Either  that,&quot;  she  says,  &quot;or  I  wish  I  could  love  you  only  a  little.&quot;  THE  next  morning-a  Saturday,  temperature  ascending  andno  work  to  busy  his  hands,  the  blood  in  his  limbs  thick  with  the  sweet  pain  of  longing-finds  Long  driving  past  con-  venience  stores  and  slowing,  as  if  he  were  a  teen-ager  trying  to  get  a  glimpse  of  the  girl  he  could  not  hope  to  have.  Belted  into  the  seat  beside  him,  the  cast  extending  her  leg  into  the  empty  space  before  the  glove  box,  Les-  lie  holds  a  doll  to  the  open  window,  the  wind  lifting  its  synthetic  hair.  Long  pulls  into  the  asphalt  lot  of  one  of  the  stores,  guiding  thecar  between  the  parallel  white  lines.  One  beer,  he  thinks-a  six-pack.  &quot;Look,&quot;  Leslie  says,  and  Long  turns  his  head,  only  to  find  that  she  was  speaking  to  the  doll,  whose  straw  gaze  is  turned  toward  the  clouds.  He  shifts  the  car  into  reverse.  ong  digs  ahole  large  enough  to  bury  them  all,  then  blends  in  peat  moss,  liquid  fertilizer.  He  plants  an  oak,  a  sapling.  The  well  around  the  tree-  enormous,  perfectly  round,  seven  inches  deep-he  fills  each  night,  with  a  slow  run  of  water  from  a  new  green  hose.  He  steps  to  the  rim.  The  water  reflects  the  scrawny  tree,  Long's  face,  Leslie's  frilly  dress  and  luminous  cast  as  she  carefully  steps  onto  his  feet,  gripping  the  creases  of  his  pants.  An-  drea  stands  beside  him  holding  Tim  against  her  hip.  Long  can  seehis  son's  face  in  the  water,  but  Andrea's  head  is  turned.  Long  wants  to  see  the  tree  well  as  a  halo.  He  knows  that  at  night  it  will  reflect  the  stars.  He  waits,  but  Andrea's  face  does  not  appear.  He  does  not  drink."