 b"WHENEVER  Nathan  Shapiro  regarded  Eleanor  Parnell,  it  was  like  looking  at  a  transpar-  ent  overlay  in  the  World  Book  Ency-  clopedia.  In  his  mind  he  would  flip  back  and  forth  from  today's  deep-  voiced,  black-haired,  chain-smoking,  heavy-breasted  woman  in  a  red  sheath  dress  or  tight  dungarees,  gracefully  working  the  cork  from  another  bottle  of  pink  [REDACTED]  wine,  to  the  vague,  large,  friendly  woman  in  plaids  who  had  fed  him  year  after  year  on  Cokes  and  devilled-ham  sandwiches,  whose  leaves  he  had  raked  for  seven  autumns  now,  and  who  still  lay  somewhere  un-  derneath  the  new  Eleanor,  like  the  skeleton  of  afrog  beneath  the  bright  chaos  of  its  circulatory  system.  It  was  only  since  Nathan  had  turned  fourteen  and  found  himself  privy  to  the  reckless  conversation  of  divorc\xc3\xa9es-of  those  half-dozen  funny,  sad  women  with  whom  his  motherhad  surrounded  herself-that  he  had  discovered  Elea-  nor  Parnell  to  be  a  woman  of  bad  habits  and  of  enterprises  that  ended  in  disas-  ter.  They  said  that  she  baked  and  con-  sumed  marijuana  desserts,  and  that  she  liked  to  spend  Christmas  Eve  playing  blackjack  in  [REDACTED],  alone.  She  drove  her  scarlet  Alfa  Romeo  with  the  abandon  of  someone  who,  as  Mrs.  Sha-  piro  pointed  out,  had  always  been  very  unlucky.  When  she  was  hardly  older  than  Nathan  was  now,  Eleanor  had  spent  two  triumphant  years  on  the  L.P.G.A.  tour;  then  she'd  fallen  from  a  horse  and  broken  her  left  elbow.  Nathan  had  seen  her  trophies,  once,  in  a  glass  cabinet  up  in  Eleanor  and  Major  Ray's  bedroom.  Her  real-estate  company  went  down  under  a  hailstorm  of  lawsuits  and  threats  of  criminal  prosecution  which  Nathan  and  his  mother  had  read  about  in  the  Huxley  New  Idee  and  even,  eventually,  in  the  Washington  Post.  Cayenne,  her  New  Orleans-style  res-  taurant  in  Huxley  [REDACTED],  closed  after  only  a  few  months.  And  there  had  been  apale  little  baby,  a  redhead  named  Sullivan,  who  lived  so  briefly  that  Ricky,  Nathan's  little  brother,  did  not  even  remember  him.  All  these  tales  of  misfortune,  all  the  melancholy  under  Eleanor's  eyes  and  around  her  mouth,  had  the  surprising  -to  Nathan-effect  of  causing  him  to  fall  helplessly  in  love.  It  began  one  August  when,  after  a  hiatus  of  several  years,  he  resumed  his  ancient  habit  of visiting  the  Parnells'  house  every  day,  for  soft  drinks  and  conversation  with  Eleanor.  He  was  driven  to  her,  at  first,  simply  by  loneliness  and  by  the  sadness  of  boredom.  Ricky  was  gone-he  had  gone  to  live  in  [REDACTED]  with  their  father  the  previous  spring-and  during  the  tedious,  spectacular  afternoons  of  Au-  gust  the  house  was  distressingly  empty.  All  month,  Mrs.  Shapiro,  who  was  a  nurse,  had  to  work  late  on  the  ward,  so  Nathan  ate  dinner  with  his  friend  Ed-  ward  St.  John  and  Edward's  bohemian  family  more  often  than  usual,  and  he  was  glad  to  spend  the  last  afternoons  of  the  summer  down  the  street  at  the  Parnells'.  Major  Ray-Major  Ray-  mond  Parnell,  of  Galveston,  Texas-  did  not  get  home  from  the  base  until  seven  o'clock,  and  Nathan  would  sit  in  the  kitchen  until  Major  Ray's  boister-  ous  arrival,  watching  Eleanor  smoke  cigarettes  and  squeeze  lemons  into  her  diet  Coke,  of  which  she  drank  sixty  ounces  a  day-enough,  as  Major  Ray  often  declared,  to  reanimate  a  dead  body.  She  would  ask  Nathan  forhis  opinions  on  hair  styles,  decorating,  ecology,  religion,  and  music,  and  he  would  offer  them  only  after  a  good  deal  of  consideration,  in  an  airy,  humor-  ous,  pedantic  tone  of  voice,  which  he  borrowed,  without  knowing  it,  from  his  father.  Eleanor  had  treated  him  without  condescension  when  he  was  a  little  boy,  and  she  now  listened  to  him  with  an  intentness  that  was  both  respectful  and  amused,  as  though  she  half  expected  him  to  tell  her  something  new.  Nathan's  love  for  Eleanor  followed  hard  on  the  heels  of  his  long-  awaited  and  disastrous  growth  spurt,  and  it  wrenched  him  every  bit  as  much,  until  his  chest  ached  from  the  sudden  and  irregular  expansion  of  his  feelings.  In  the  mirror  the  sight  of  his  heavy-rimmed  eye-  glasses  and  unfortunate  complexion,  of  the  new,  irregular  largeness  of  his  body,  of  his  suddenly  big-his  fat-stomach,  would  send  him  off  on  giddy  binges  ofanxiety.  He  ate  sweet  snacks  and  " b"slept  badly  and  jumped  at  loud  sounds.  The  sight  of  Eleanor's  red  Alfa  Romeo-the  sight  of  any  red  car-dis-  turbed  him.  He  was  filled  with  deep  compassion  for  animals  and  children,  in  particular  for  Nickel  Boy,  the  Par-  nells'  dog,  a  sensitive,  courtly  old  bea-  gle.  In  fact,  Nathan  spoke  at  length  to  Nickel  Boy  about  his  feelings  for  Eleanor,  even  though  he  knew  that  talking  to  a  dog  was  not  really  talking  but,  as  he  had  read  in  Psychology  Today,  simply  making  a  lot  of  com-  forting  sounds  in  order  to  secrete  some  enzyme  that  would  lower  his  own  blood  pressure  and  slow  his  pulse.  Every  night  before  he  switched  off  the  lamp,  and  every  morning  when  he  awoke,  he  took  out  the  collection  of  photographs  of  Eleanor  Parnell  he  had  pilfered  from  his  mother's  album  and  looked  deeply  into  each  of  them,  trying  to  speak  to  Eleanor  with  the  telepathy  of  love.  In  his  freshman-English  class  they  arrived  at  the  writing  of  poetry,  and  Nathan,  startled  into  action,  com-  posed  haiku,  limericks,  odes,  and  cin-  quains  to  Eleanor,  as  well  as  an  acros-  tic  sonnet,  the  first  letters  of  whose  lines  daringly  spelled  out  E-L-E-A-N-O-R  P-A-R-N-E-L-L;  whenever,  in  these  poems,  he  referred  to  her  directly,  he  called  her  Jennifer-like  &quot;Eleanor&quot;  a  dactyl.  On  the  Saturday  before  the  start  of  his  freshman  year  of  high  school,  as  Nathan  wandered  home  through  the  woods  from  Edward's  house,  trying  to  walk  erect,  he  saw  Eleanor  under  the  tulip  poplars,in  a  battered  pithhel-  met,  wildly  shooting  down  wasps'  nests  with  the  pistol  nozzle  of  a  garden  hose.  Great  golden,  malevolent  wasps  had  been  something  of  a  problem  all  summer,  but  after  all  the  rain  in  July  they  prolifer-  ated  and  flew  into  the  houses  at  supper-  time.  &quot;Is  it  working?&quot;  called  Nathan,  trotting  toward  her.  One  of  the  things  he  loved  about  Eleanor  was  her  inven-  tiveness,  however  doomed.  &quot;Oh,  no,&quot;  Eleanor  said.  As  soon  as  she  glimpsed  Nathan  she  began  to  laugh,  and  the  stream  of  water  shivered  and  fell  to  the  ground.  Her  laugh,  which  was  the  first  thing  Nathan  re-  membered  noticing  about  Eleanor,  had  always  been  odd-raucous  and  dark,  like  a  cartoon  magpie's  or  spider's  but  lately  it  had  come  for  Nathan  to  be  invested  with  the  darkness  of  sex  and  the  raucousness  of  having  survived  misfortune.  She  had  been  in  the  sun  too  long,  and  her  face  was  bright  red.  &quot;&quot;No  one  was  supposed  to  see  me  doing  this.  Do  you  think  this  is  a  bad  idea?  They  look  pretty  pissed  off.  Major  Ray  thought  this  wasn't  a  good  idea.&quot;  Major  Ray  did  not  appreciate  Eleanor.  &quot;I  disagree,&quot;  said  Nathan,  gazing  up  at  the  treetops,  where  the  wasps  had  hung  their  cities  of  paper.  A  dense  golden  cloud  of  wasps  wavered  around  them.  &quot;There's  a  lot  less  of  them  now.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  think  so?&quot;  said  Eleanor.  She  took  off  her  hat  and  stared  upward.  Her  bangs  clung  to  her  damp,  sun-  burned  forehead.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  said  Nathan.  &quot;I  guess  you  drowned  them.  Or  maybe  the  impact  kills  them.  Of  the  water.&quot;  The  cloud  of  wasps  widened  and  descended.  &quot;Uh,  Eleanor.  Could  I-  Maybe  I  should  try  it.&quot;  &quot;All  right,&quot;  said  Eleanor.  She  handed  him  the  squirting,  hissing  noz-  zle  and  then,  solemnly,  the  pith  helmet,  all  the  while  keeping  an  eye  on  the  insects  and  biting  her  lip.  Almost  im-  mediately  Nathan  got  the  feeling  that  a  blanket,  or  a  net,  was  about  to  fall  on  him.  Eleanor  jumped  backward  with  a  cry,  and  Nathan  was  left  to  fight  off  the  wasps  with  his  lunatic  weapon,  which  he  did  for  fifteen  valiant  seconds.  Then  he  ran,  with  Eleanor  behind  him.  He  tore  around  the  front  of  the  Parnells'  house,  crossed  the  front  lawn,  and  ran  out  onto  Les  Adieux  Circle.  At  the  center  of  the  cul-de-sac  lay  a  round  patch  of  grass,  planted  with  a  single,  frail  oak  tree.  No  one  on  the  street  knew  who  was  supposed  to  mow  this  island  and  so  it  generally  went  un-  mown,  and,  according  to  the  local  chil-  dren's  legend,  it  harbored  a  family  of  field  rats.  He  and  Eleanor  fell  into  the  weeds,  and  Nathan's  eyeglasses,  which  were  photosensitive  andhad  darkened  in  the  afternoon  sunshine,  flew  from  his  face.  Dazzled,  frightened,  he  rolled  laughing  in  her  rosy  arms,  and  they  embraced  like  a  couple  of  fortunate  castaways.  Then,  his  heart  pounding,  he  scrambled  to  his  knees  and  sought  the  comforting  weight,  the  protection  of  his  glasses.  Of  the  four  stings  that  Nathan  " b"received,  three  were  on  his  thigh  and  one  was  on  his  shoulder.  Eleanor  took  him  into  the  house,  up  the  stairs,  and  into  the  bedroom,  where  blue  laundry  lay  folded  on  the  big  bed  and  where  the  golf  trophies,  like  so  many  miniature  Mormon  temples,  sat  shin-  ing  dimly  in  their  cabinet.  Then  she  led  him  into  the  bathroom,  lowered  the  lid  onto  the  toilet,  and  sat  him  down.  &quot;Roll  up  your  cutoffs,  Nathan,&quot;  she  said.  She  found  a  box  of  baking  soda  andmixed  a  little  with  some  tap  water  in  the  plastic  bathroom  cup.  Nathan  pulled  upward  on  the  frazzled  leg  of  his  shorts  and  tried  to  keep  from  cry-  ing.  She  knelt  beside  him  to  daub  his  pale,  fat,  blistered  thigh.  Nathan  flinched,  but  the  paste  was  cool,  and  he  was  overcome  with  gratitude.  He  didn't  know  what  to  do,  and  so  he  stared  at  the  parting  of  her  hair,  at  Eleanor's  miraculous  scalp,  white  and  fine  as  polished  wood.  &quot;I  guess  Major  Ray  was  right,&quot;  said  Eleanor.  &quot;It  wasn't  such  a  hot  idea.&quot;  She  cackled  nervously,  and  it  was  a  relief  to  Nathan  to  see  that  she  also  felt  that  something  weird  was  happening  -such  a  relief  that  be  began  tocry,  although  he  hated  crying  more  than  anything  else  in  the  world.  &quot;Oh,  Jesus,  does  it  hurt,  honey?&quot;  Eleanor  said.  &quot;I'm  sorry,  I'm  sorry.  Does  it  hurt?&quot;  This  expression  of  concern  made  Nathan  inordinately  happy,  and  he  tried  to  tell  her  it  didn't  hurt  a  bit,  but  he  was  too  miserable  to  speak.  He  was  frightened  by  the  zealof  his  crying,  but  it  felt  too  good  to  stop.  Sohe  covered  his  face  and  hee-hawed  like  a  child.  Eleanor  stopped  ministering  to  his  wasp  stings  and  sat  back  on  her  heels,  regarding  Nathan.  A  different  kind  of  concern  entered  her  face,  and  all  at  once  she  looked  very  sad.  &quot;What's  the  matter,  Nathan?&quot;  she  said.  UT  Nathan  told  no  one,  not  even  Edward,  to  whom  he  generally  confided  all  his  ludicrous  amours.  The  two  boys  had  supported  and  amused  one  another  through  a  long  series  of  fanciful  loves,  but  until  now  the  objects  of  their  affections  had  always  been  unattainable,  unlikely,  and  laughable:  a  prom  queen,  a  postwoman,  the  earth-  sciences  teacher  Miss  Patocki,  or  the  disturbing  Sabina  McFay,  Edward's  nineteen-year-old  neighbor,  who  was  half  Vietnamese  and  rode  amotorcycle.  Not  so  Eleanor  Parnell;  she  was  unat-  tainable  and  farfetched,  but  she  was  not  at  all  laughable,  and  Nathan  said  noth-  ing  to  Edward  about  her.  When  he  learned,  from  his  mother,  that  he  had  been  invited  to  the  Par-  nells'  Halloween  party,  he  was  flattered  and  struck  with  fear,  and  during  the  abject,  optimistic  weeks  that  followed  he  resolved  to  declare  his  feelings  to  Eleanor  Parnell  once  and  for  all  at  this  party.  For  ten  days  his  head  was filled  with  whispered,  intricate  repar-  tee.  At  dusk  on  Halloween,  justas  the  youngest  and  most  carefully  chaper-  oned  of  the  demons  and  nurses  and  mice  were  beginning  to  make  their  rounds,  Nathan  and  Edward  were  standing  in  the  living  room  of  the  Shapiros'  house,  drawing  pictures  with  colored  pencils  onto  Mrs.  Shapiro's  arms,  back,  and  shoulders.  Nathan's  mother  sat  on  a  horsehide  ottoman,  in  blue  fishnet  tights,  blue  high-heeled  shoes,  and  astrapless  Popsicle-blue  bathing  suit,  laughing  and  com-  plaining  that  the  boys  were  pressing  too  hard  as  they  drew  anchors,  hearts,  thunderbolts,  and  snakes  across  her  skin.  The  boys  dipped  the  tips  of  the  pencils  into  a  jar  of  water,  which  made  the  colors  run  rich.  As  the  drawings  began  to  predominate  over  unmarked  " b"patches  of  skin,  Nathan  put  his  crimson  pencil  down  and  stepped  back,  as  if  to  admire  their  handiwork.  &quot;I  think  that's  enough  tattoos,  Mom,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Is  that  so?&quot;  said  his  mother.  &quot;Personally,&quot;  said  Edward,  inspecting  her,  &quot;I  think  a  big,  youknow,  triumphant  eagle,  with  a  javelin  in  its  claw,  right  here  under  your  neck,  would  look  really  cool,  Mrs.  Shapiro.  Rose.&quot;  &quot;'That  sounds  fine,  Edward,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Shapiro.  Nathan  looked  at  his  friend,  who  began  to  paint  a  gray,  screaming  eagle.  Nothing  about  his  voice  or  studious  little  face  indicated  that  he  felt  anything  but  the  enthusiasm  of  art.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  his  drawings  were  much  better  than  Nathan's  -bold,  well  drafted,  easily  recogniz-  able;  the  snakes  Nathan  had  drawn  lookedkind  of  like  sewing  needles,  or  flattened  teaspoons.  &quot;If  you  thinkabout  it,&quot;  said  Ed-  ward,  in  the  careful  but  dazed  way  he  had  of  propounding  his  many  insights,  &quot;the  symbol  of  our  country  is  a  really  warlike  symbol.&quot;  &quot;Hmm,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Shapiro.  &quot;Isn't  that  interesting?&quot;  When  her  costume  was  finally  com-  plete,  and  Nathan  regarded  her  in  all  her  fiery,  gay  motley,  his  heart  sank,  and  he  was  seized  with  doubts  about  the  costume  he'd  decided  on.  After  much  indecision  and  agonized  debate  with  Edward,  whose  father  was  an  avant-garde  artist,  Nathan  had  decided  upon  a  conceptual  Halloween  costume.  He  had  made  a  coat  hanger  into  a  wire  ring  that  sat  like  a  diadem  on  his  brow,  bent  the  end  of  it  so  that  it  would  stand  up  over  the  back  of  his  head,  then  made  a  small  loop  into  which  he  could  screw  a  light  bulb.  When  he  wore  this  con-  traption  the  light  bulb  seemed  to  hang  suspended  a  few  inches  above  him,  and  the  wire  was,  in  a  dim  room,  practi-  cally  invisible.  He  was  going  to  the  Parnells'  Halloween  party,  in  Ed-  ward's  excited  formulation,  as  a  guy  in  the  process  of  having  a  good  idea  for  a  costume.  The  whole  notion  now  struck  Na-  than  as  childish,  and  anemic,  and  it  bothered  him  that  the  light  bulb  would  never  actually  be  lit  up,  and  would  just  bob  there,  gray  and  dull,  atop  his  head,  as  though  he  were  really  going  to  Eleanor's  party  as  a  guy  in  the  process  of  having  a  bed  idea  for  a  costume.  The  truth  was  that  Nathan  felt  so  keenly  how  plain,  how  squat  and  clumsy  he  had  become-his  belly  had  begun  to  strain  against  the  ribbed  elastic  of  his  new  gym  shorts,  and  his  mother  had  received  his  last  school  pictures  with  a  fond,  motherly,  devastating  sigh-that  he  regretted  having  passed  up  the  op-  portunity  of  concealing  himself,  if  only  for  one  night,  in  the  raiment  of  a  robot  ora  king.  &quot;Cool,&quot;  said  Edward,  standing  up  straight  and  blowing  gently  on  the  eagle  tattoo.  Mrs.  Shapiro  rose  from  the  ottoman,  went  to  the  chrome  mirror  that  had  been  one  of  his  parents'  last  joint  pur-  chases,  and  seemed  greatly  pleased  by  the  apparition  that  she  saw  there.  She  hadn't  wanted  them  to  illustrate  her  face,  and  now  it  rose  pale  and  almost  shockingly  bare  from  her  shoulders.  &quot;You  did  a  great  [REDACTED];  she  said.  &quot;I  like  the  hula  girl,  Edward,&quot;  she  added,  looking  down  at  her  right  biceps.  &quot;Make  a  muscle,&quot;  he  said.  He  went  to  the  mirror  and  tookhold  of  her  right  arm  and  wrist.  Nathan  followed.  &quot;Flex  your  arm,&quot;  said  Edward.  Mrs.  Shapiro  flexed  her  arm.  Na-  than  leaned  over  his  friend's  shoulder  to  watch  the  hula  girl  do  a  rudimentary  bump  and  grind.  He  looked  around  for  something  to  stand  on,  to  get  a  better  view,  and  his  glance  fell  upon  the  matching  chrome  wastebasket,  which  stood  beside  the  mirror,  but  when  he  balanced  himself  on  its  edge  and  peered  down  at  the  dancing  tattoo  the  waste-  basket  immediately  gave  way.  Nathan's  eyeglasses,  which  for  weeks  he'd  been  meaning  to  tighten,  slipped  from  his  " b"face,  and  when  he  fell  he  landed  on  them  with  a  gruesome  crunch.  &quot;Oh,  no,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Shapiro.  &quot;Not  again.&quot;  &quot;I'm  sorry,  Mom,&quot;  said  Nathan.  &quot;Are  you  all  right'  Did  you  hurt  yourself?&quot;  Edward,  laughing,  held  out  his  hand  to  Nathan  to  pull  him  to  his  feet.  &quot;'You're  insane,  Dr.  Lester,&quot;  he  said.  'You're  deranged,  Mme.  La-  Farge,&quot;  said  Nathan,  automatically.  He  looked  at  his  friend  and  his  tattooed  mother  gazing  down  upon  him  with  a  kind  of  mild,  perfunctory  concern.  They  turned  to  one  another  and  laughed.  A  barrage  of  miniature-de-  mon  knocks  rang  out  against  the  front  door  of  the  house.  Nathan  passed  a  hand  before  his  eyes,  blinked,  and  shook  his  head.  &quot;I  can  see,&quot;  he  said  flatly.  After  Edward  went  home,  he  and  his  mother  sat  down  at  the  kitchen  table  that  smelled  of  409  and  called  Ricky  in  [REDACTED],  to  see  how  his  trick,  or-treating  had  gone  and  to  tell  him  that  Nathan  could  see  without  his glasses.  This  was  a  development  that  ophthalmologists  had  been  calling  for  since  Nathan  was  five  and  had  donned  his  first  little  owlish  pair  of  horn-rims.  Though  its  coming  to  pass  was  cer-  tainly  something  of  a  shock,  it  did  not  surprise  him,  especially  now,  when  the  behavior  of  his  body  was  so  continually  shocking,  and  when  so  many  of  the  ancient  fixtures  of  his  life-his  slight  form,  his  smooth  face,  his  father  and  brother-were  vanishing  one  by  one.  Anne,  his  stepmother,  answered  the  phone  but  went  immediately  to  find  Ricky,  as  she  always  did,  and  it  oc-  curred  to  Nathan  for  the  first  time  that  he  was  never  particularly  kind  to  her.  He  looked  at  the  receiver,  wishing  he  could  run  after  her,  and  waited  for  Ricky  to  pick  up  his  extension.  His  brother  had  just  come  in  from  trick-or-  treating  and  was  almost  delirious  with  sated  greed.  &quot;Almond  Roca,  Nate!&quot;  he  exulted.  &quot;Popcorn  balls  that  are  orange!&quot;  'You  can't  eat  the  ones  that  aren't  wrapped.  Throw  away  the  popcorn  balls.&quot;  \xe2\x80\x98(Why?\xe2\x80\x99,  &quot;Razor  blades,&quot;  said  Nathan.  He missed  his  brother  so  badly  that  it  made  him  nervous  to  speak  to  Ricky  on  the  phone.  They  talked  to  each  other  three  times  a  week,  but  they  could  never  gen-  erate  any  real  silliness,  and  Nathan,  in  spite  of  himself,  was  always  irritable  and  mocking,  or  stern.  &quot;Yeah,&quot;  Ricky  said  excitedly.  &quot;Hal-  loween  razor  blades.  Oh,  my  God,  Nate,  someone  gave  me  raisin  bread!  Raisin  bread,  Nate!&quot;  &quot;I  don't  believe  it,&quot;  said  Nathan.  &quot;Ricky,  guess  what?&quot;  &quot;I  bet  it  was  Mrs.  Gilette.  Hey,  what  are  you  going  to  be?  Galactus?&quot;  Ricky  had  spent  his  entire  life  wait-  ing  for  Nathan  to  dress  as  Galactus,  the  World  Eater,  for  Halloween,  which  was  something  Nathan  a  long  time  ago  had  said  he  was  going  to  do,  not  dreaming  that  Ricky  would  never  forget  it,  and  would  even  come  to  regard  it  as  the  greatest  and  most  mag-  ical  of  all  the  magical  promises  that  his  older  brother  had  ever  broken.  In  this  instance  Nathan  felt  more  guilty  than  usual  about  having  to  tell  Ricky  the  sorry  truth,  and  he  swivelled  around  in  his  chair  so  that  his  mother  wouldn't  be  able  to  see  his  face.  &quot;I'm  going  as  a  guy  in  the  process  of  having  a  good  idea  for  a  costume,&quot;  he  mumbled.  ((Huh?,7  &quot;You  wouldn't  understand  it.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  understand  it  because  it's  dumb,&quot;  said  Ricky.  &quot;I  can  tell  it  must  be  dumb.&quot;  &quot;Go  to  hell,&quot;  said  Nathan.  &quot;Nathan,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Shapiro.  &quot;Go  to  hell  you,&quot;  said  Ricky.  &quot;Guess  what?  I  can  see  without  my  glasses.&quot;  He  spun  around  to  face  his  mother,  and  she  looked  at  him  with  mild  amazement.  You  mean  you  never  have  to  wear  them  ever  again?&quot;  said  Ricky.  Absent-  ly  he  added,  &quot;Now  you  won't  be  so  ugly.&quot;  This  thought  had  not  occurred  to  Nathan.  He  heard  the  sound  of  a  plas-  tic  bag  full  of  candy  bars  being  rum-  maged  around  in  and  felt  that  he  had  exhausted  Ricky's  attention  span,  just  when  he  most  needed  to  speak  to  him.  This  incompleteness  was  why  Nathan  had  first  come  to  hate  talking  on  the  telephone  to  his  father,  in  the  days  of  his  parents'  trial  separation.  Ricky  tore  open  a  wrapper  and  began  to  chew.  Bit-  O-Honey,  from  the  sound  of  it.  Nathan  " b"pictured  his  brother  surrounded  by  candy,  lying  in  his  fancy  bedroom  in  [REDACTED]  on  his  bed  shaped  like  a  racing  car.  It  was  a  big  bedroom,with  a  large,  empty  alcove  at  the  back,  which  Ricky  claimed  to  be  afraid  of  entering.  Na-  than  imagined  the  [REDACTED]  Halloween  night  through  the  windows  in  the  dark  alcove  as  Ricky  would  see  it  from  his  speeding  bed.  &quot;The  big  brother  is  al-  ways  uglier,&quot;  Ricky  said.  &quot;I  know  you're  only  teasing  me,&quot;  said  Nathan.  As  he  had  several  times  before,  he  felt  very  far  away  from  his  brother  just  then,  as  he  felt  far  from  Anne  and  his  father  and  mother  and  everyone  he  knew,  isolated  in  his  love  and  anxiety,  but  for  the  first  time  the  void  around  him  seemed  to  offer  a  new  perspective,  as  though  he  were  stand-  ing  safely  on  top  of  a  house  in  the  midst  of  a  great  flood.  He  had  no  desire  to  return  Ricky's  insults.  He  looked  at  Mrs.  Shapiro,  who,  although  she  didn't  know  what  Ricky  had  said,  nod-  ded  her  head.  &quot;I  know  I'm  not  ugly,&quot;  said  Nathan.  &quot;No,&quot;  said  the  sleepy  little  boy  in  [REDACTED],  flowing  off  away  from  Nathan  on  his  bed  of  sweets.  &quot;You  have  nice  shoulders.&quot;  T  was  as  Nathan  walked  with  his  mother  through  the  woods  to  the  Parnells'  house  that  he  began  to  feel  distinctly  altered.  These  trees  were  go-  ing  to  be  cut  down  soon,  to  make  way  for  three  new  houses,  and  as  he  strode,  barefaced,  across  the  little  wood,  there  seemed  a  particular  clarity  to  the  starlit  Halloween  air,  a  sharpness  that  hith-  erto  he  had  only  smelled,  and  the  sight  of  the  world  struck  him  with  the  aus-  tere  flavor  of  smoke  and  dead  leaves.  Up  the  street  the  beam  of  a  child's  flashlight  tumbled  to  the  ground,  ignit-  ing  the  red  oak  leaves  that  littered  the  Parnells'  lawn,  and  then  flew  upward,  illuminating  the  bare  tops  of  previously  invisible  trees.  &quot;I  can't  believe  it,&quot;  said  Nathan.  &quot;I  must  be  cured.&quot;  'You  lookvery  nice  without  your  glasses,&quot;  said  his  mother.  &quot;You  look  like  your  father.&quot;  &quot;Dad  wears  glasses.&quot;  &quot;He  didn't  always,&quot;  she  said.  She  shivered  in  her  coat,  which  was  made  from  rabbits  andhad  been  the  gift  of  Humberto,  the  Brazilian  professional  soccer  player  she  had  dated  last  winter.  &quot;Do  you  think  my  concept  is  stupid,  Mom?&quot;  &quot;I  just  don't  really  understand  it,  Nathan,&quot;  said  his  mother.  &quot;I  never  really  understand  your  jokes.  I'm  sure  lots  of  people  will  think  it's  hilarious.&quot;  They  came  to  the  short  incline  of  yellow  lawn  which  rose  to  the  cedar  planks  of  the  Parnells'  front  porch,  and  which  was  transected  by  a  crooked  line  of  stepping  stones  that  led  to  the  shal-  low  goldfish  pond  beside  the  front  door.  Major  Ray  had  been  stationed  for  five  years  in  Yokohama  during  the  sixties,  and  the  Parnells  had  returned  with  a  houseful  of  Japanese  things.  The  carved  pumpkin  shared  the  porch  with  a  stone  lamp  shaped  like  a  pointed  Japanese  house,  and  as  Nathan  and  his  mother  stepped  up  to  the  front  door-  you  could  already  hear  them  inside,  dozens  of  laughing  adults-it  struck  him  that  a  jack-o'-lantern  was  truly  a  lantern.  His  last  thought  before  Elea-  nor  threw  open  the  door  was  an  idea  for  a  science-fiction  novel  in  which  the  denizens  of  a  distant  world  furnished  their  lives  with  various  giant  vegeta-  bles,  carving  out  their  beds,  dressing  in  long,  curly  peels,  illuminating  their  homes  with  the  light  of  pumpkins.  Then  the  door  flew  open.  In  all  his  anxiety  over  his  own  wardrobe,  in  all  the  editing  and  revision  of  the  tortured  sentence  he  intended  that  nightjaun-  tily  to  pronounce  to  Eleanor,  he  had  forgotten  to  wonder  about  what  she  might  wear,  and  he  found  himself  taken  completely  by  surprise.  Nathan  had  been  prey,  of  course,  to  night  fantasies  of  Eleanor  Parnell.  He  concocted  these  happy  narratives  of  seduction  with  the  same  thorough-  ness  he  brought  to  all  his  imaginary  projects,  such  as  Davor,  the  Golden  Planet,  and  the  vast  turnpike,  each  of  its  rest  stops  and  motor  courts  carefully  named,  that  he  had  once  mapped  across  two  hundred  pages  of  his  loose-leaf  notebook.  He  had  envisioned  Mrs.  Parnell  in  all  manner  of  empty  rooms,  and  on  desert  beaches,  and  under  a     " b"remote  lean-to  in  the  Far  West,  but  during  these  trysts  she  remained  de-  murely  clothed.  (At  those  crucial  mo-  ments  when  Eleanor  began  to  remove  her  garments,  Nathan's  vision  tended  to  falter.)  But  he  had  never  imagined  her  in  a  black  leather  bikini,  black  cape,  black  boots,  and  black  visor  with  a  great  pointed  pair  of  black  leather  ears.  &quot;I'm  Batman,&quot;  Eleanor  said,  giving  Nathan  a  dry  kiss  on  the  cheek.  &quot;You  look  wonderful,&quot;  she  said  to  Mrs.  Sha-  piro.  She  stepped  back  to  examine  Na-  than,  and  her  eyes  narrowed  within  their  moon-shaped  black  windows.  &quot;Nathan,  you're  a-  You're  a  lamp.  You're  a  lamppost.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  no,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Shapiro.  &quot;That's  right,&quot;  said  Nathan  the  Lamppost.  &quot;Ha,  ha.&quot;  He  could  not  say  whether  it  was  desire  he  felt  for  her  or  total,  irredeemable  embarrassment.  &quot;Nathan,&quot;  said  his  mother.  &quot;You  are  not  a  lamp.  Tell  her.&quot;  &quot;Come  in,&quot;  said  Eleanor.  &quot;We're  in  the  Yellow  Room.  So  what  are  you,  Nathan?&quot;  She  drewthem  into  the  house,  tak-  ing  their  hands  in  her  own,  as  was  her  habit.  The  Yellow  Room  was  filled,  as  Nathan  had  known  it  would  be,  with  alcohol  and  disco  music  and  adulthood  in  its  most  intimidating  aspect.  Two  dozen  men  and  women  in  costume-  Nathan  spotted  a  knight,  a  baseball  player,  and  some  sort  of  witch  or  hag  -held  their  drinks  and  shouted  mildly  at  each  other  over  the  agitated  music,  and  five  or  six  couples  were  dancing  in  the  middle  of  the  room.  Ever  since  his  motherhad  become  a  single  woman  she  had  increasingly  involved  herself,  it  seemed,  with  adults  who  liked  to  dance  -a  sight  that  for  Nathan  had  not  lost  its  novelty.  He  especially  enjoyed  watching  the  diligent  men  as  they  jogged  in  place.  &quot;O.K.,  I  give  up,&quot;  Eleanor  said.  She  turned  to  face  him  and  Nathan  stopped  dead.  &quot;No,  I  don't.&quot;  A  pinched  look  crossed  her  face  as  she  scanned  his  body,  and  she  seemed  to  take  in  for  the  first  time  the  poverty  of  Nathan's  la-  mentable  concept.  Nathan  blushed  and  looked  away,  though  this  was  partly  because  he  feared  he  had  already  looked  too  many  times  at  her  breasts  and  at  her  radiant  stomach.  &quot;Are  you  supposed  to  be  Thomas  Edison?  Is  that  it'  Are  you  Thomas  Alva  Edison?&quot;  Nathan  forced  himself  to  meet  the  humiliation  of  her  sympathetic  gaze.  He  opened  his  mouth  to  explain,  to  tell  her  that  he  was  indeed  the  Wizard  of  Menlo  Park,  on  the  verge  of  stealing  fire.  &quot;He's  a  guy  in  the  process  of  having  a  good  idea  for  a  costume,&quot;  said  Mrs.Shapiro,  crossing  her  arms  and  shrug-  ging  her  tattooed  shoulders.  &quot;W  hat  do  you  think  of  that?&quot;  &quot;Nathan,&quot;  said  Eleanor,  smiling  at  Nathan  and  taking  his  chin  between  the  long  fingers  of  her  hand.  &quot;You're  such  astrange  youngman.&quot;  She  laughed  her  magpie's  laugh,  and  in  her  hooded  eyes  Nathan  read  both  pain  and  amusement,  as  though  she  already  knew  that  he  loved  her.  Then  she  turned  away  from  him,  and  the  two  women  put  their  arms  around  one  an-  other-a  habit  his  mother  had  picked  up  from  Eleanor,  who  had  learned  it  from  Major  Ray,  who  put  his  arm  around  everybody.  They  went  to  the  long  table,  draped  by  ablack  paper  tablecloth,  that  served  as  the  bar.  Ma-  jor  Ray,  wearing  his  Bruce  Wayne  smoking  jacket,  came  over  to  hug  Mrs.  Shapiro.  He  said  something  to  her,  she  laughed,  and  thenhe  led  her  off  to  one  side,  so  that  Eleanor  was  left  momen-  tarily  alone.  For  a  moment  Nathan,  suffused  with  the  careless,  wild-haired  courage  of  an  inventor,  contemplated  Eleanor  in  her  racy  suit.  He  took  a  step  toward  her,  then  another,  tentatively,  gathering  all  his  strength,  as  though  about  to  throw  a  heavy  switch  that  would,  if  his  calculations  were  correct,  bring  light  to  a  hundred  cities  and  ten  thousanddarkened  rooms.  He  was  go-  ing  to  ask  her  to  dance-that  was  all.  In  the  few  seconds  before  he  reached  her  bat-winged  side  he  searched  his  memory  for  a  suave  line  or  smooth  invitation  from  some  movie,  but  all  he  could  think  of  at  that  moment  was  &quot;Young  Mr.  Lincoln.&quot;  &quot;Eleanor,&quot;he  said,  &quot;I  would  like  to  dance  with  you  in  the  worst  way.&quot;  Eleanor  smiled,  then  leaned  close  to  him  and  puther  hand  on  his  shoulder,  her  lips  to  his  ear.  For  a  long  time  she  hesitated.  &quot;I  know  a  couple  of  very  bad  ways,&quot;  she  said  at  last,  &quot;but  you're  too  young  for  them,  Nathan.&quot;  &quot;I  suppose  so,&quot;  he  said,  almost  hap-  pily.  He  doffed  his  wire  hat  and  set  it  down  on  the  bar.  There  was  now  nothing  on  his  face  or  his  temples,  and  he  felt  light,  almost  headless,  as  he  imagined  he  would  feel  on  the  brilliant  evening  he  tried  liquor  for  the  first  time.  He  took  her  hand,  peacefully,  and  put  it  over  his  eyes,  then  covered  her  visor  with  his  own  damp  palm.  They  stood  a  moment  in  this  darkness.  Then  he  said,  &quot;Guess  who  I  am  now.&quot; "