 b"JUST  asI  was  finishing  college, in 1969,  and  was  about  to  join  the  Marines,  the  [REDACTED]  National  Guard  made  me  a  wonderful  offer,  via  my  father,  to  join  their  public-informa-  tion  battalion,  and  so,  despite  a  linger-  ing  affection  for  those  fighting  in  Viet-,  nam,  one  bright  June  afternoon  I  drove  my  old  Mustang  to  Fort  Wayne  to  enlist  along  with  my  best  friend,  Kevin.  A  few  miles  out  of  Muncie,  he  lost  his  nerve  and  went  to  pieces.  &quot;I'll  never  make  it,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'm  sorry.  I  thought  this  could  remain  my  secret,  but  I'm  afraid  that  the  stress  of  Guard  training  would  crack  me  like  a  nut.  You  see,  I  have  a  flaw  inside  me,  a  dark  place  in  my  soul-something  painful  and  unnamable  that  can  only  be  eased  by  alcohol.  Let  me  out  of  the  car.  I'm  going  to  [REDACTED].&quot;  I  let  him  off  at  the  bus  depot  and  never  saw  him  again.  Years  later  I  heard  that  he  had  become  very  wealthy  up  there  selling  ampheta-  mines  but  then  ate  a  bad  piece  of  meat  and  got  worms  and  died  an  extremely  painful  death.  I  went  to  Fort  Wayne  and  reported  to  the  address  that  the  recruiter  had  given  to  my  dad  over  the  phone,  a  haberdasher's  called  Sid's  Suit  City,  upstairs  from  a  trophy  plant  in  a  cin-  der-block  building.  A  little  bald  guy  with  a  tape  around  his  neck  who  looked  as  though  his  feet  hurt  stuck  out  his  hand.  I  showed  him  my  papers,  and  he  showed  me  a  nice  green  knit  shirt  (short-sleeved),  a  pair  of  yellow  slacks,  and  white  buck  shoes  with  red  tassels  and  cleats.  &quot;Those  are  golf  clothes,&quot;  I  said.  He  grabbed  me  by  the  neck  and  threw  me  up  against  the  mirror  and  shoved  his  grizzled  face  within  an  inch  of  mine.  &quot;Don't  tell  me  anything  I  don't  ask  you  for  first,  you  chicken  doo.  I  own  you,  Mister.  If  I  tell  you  to  play  golf,  you  reach  for  your  clubs,  Mister,  and  if  I  order  you  to  order  two  big  pepperoni  pizzas  and  asix-pack  of  Bud,  you  jump  to  the  phone  and  do  it,  Mister,  and  if  I  tell  you  to  sit  down  and  watch  'Andy  Griffith,'  Huckleberry  Hound,&quot;  'Leave  It  to  Beaver,  and  'American  Bandstand,  I  don't  want  to  catch  you  with  a  newspaper  in  your  hand.  You're  in  the  Guard,  under-  stand?  Good.  Now  take  your  face  out  of  here  and  get  it  over  to  the  Alham-  bra  apartment  complex,  on  West  Cheyenne  Drive.  You're  in  12-C.  Beat   in  E,  it,  and  take  your  convertible  with  you.  You're  gonna  need  it.&quot;  He  wasn't  kidding  about  the  golf.  The  next  Monday  morning,  forty  of  us  reported,  bright-eyed  and  bushy-tailed,  to  Burning  Bush  Country  Club  and  were  each  issued  a  set  of  Wally  Ham-  mar  golf  clubs  and  an  electric  cart  and  sent  out  to  play.  We  were  assigned  to  foursomes.  Randy  Qualey,  Keith  Quintan,  andDennis  Quintz  were  in  mine,  and  in  the  next  couple  of  months  we  got  to  know  each  other  like  real  buddies.  We  went  out  drinking  together  and  everything.  We  shot  eighteen  holes  every  morning-sunny  or  cloudy,  warm  or  cool,  it  made  no  difference.  T  wo  months  later,  I  was  utterly  fed  up.  I'd  been  promoted  to  corporal,  but  why  wasn't  I  doing  the  job  I'd  joined  the  Guard  to  do:  inform  the  public?  Was  it  because  of  poor  grades  in  col-  lege  and  a  low  score  on  the  Guard  entrance  exam?  Was  it  because  of  my  inability  to  type?  If  the  Guard  didn't  have  confidence  in  me,  why  hadn't  they  let  me  go  to  [REDACTED]?  I  talked  it  over  with  my  dad,  and  he  promised  to  look  into  the  matter.  Meanwhile,  I  met  my  wife  at  a  dance.  It  was  love  at  first  sight.  The  next  three  months  were  the  happiest  of  my  life.  Then  one  day  I  was  called  into  Colonel  Mills'  office  at  ComInNatGu  -the  secret  Guard  command  cen-  ter  housed  in  a  complex  of  deep  bunkers  around  the  ninth  hole.  You  entered  through  a  tiny  tunnel  via  a  door  marked  &quot;HIGH  VOL-  TAGE:  EXTREMELY  DARNED  DANGEROUS!&quot;  The  door  was  in  the  janitor's  closet  of  the  men's  room  off  the  BeeBee  Lounge,  in  the  club-  house  basement.  Before  I  reached  the  men'sroom,  though,  I  heard  a  big,  booming  voice  say,  &quot;Sit  down,  trooper.&quot;  It  was  the  Colonel,  looming  up  behind  the  bar  in  a  green-and-  yellow  Hawaiian  shirt  with  a  bolo  tie  made  from  bullets,  shaking  up  a  batch  of  Bombardiers,  his  face  hidden  by  a  broad  straw  hat  with  long  fronds.  &quot;Understand  you  got  some  questions,  son,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Let's  talk.&quot;  I  climbed  up  on  a  stool  and  leaned  forward  and  started  to  tell  him  that  I  was  trying  to  figure  out  why  the  heck  I  was  in  the  Guard  and  what  I  was  supposed  to  accomplish.  &quot;Mmmmmm,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Uh-huh,  uh-huh.&quot;  And  then,  in  a  split  second,  before  I  could  move  a  muscle,  he  grabbed  me  by  the  neck  and  hauled  me  across  the  bar  and  had  me  flat  on  my  back  on  the  ice  chest  and  was  holding  ablender  to  the  side  of  my  head.  I'll  never  forget  the  cold  animal  anger  in  his  green  eyes  as  he  stared  down  at  me,  unblinking,  for  the  three  longest  seconds  of  my  life.  Then  he  helped  me  to  my  feet  and  offered  me  a  drink.  &quot;Sorry  about  losing  control  like  that,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  guess  I  got  angry  because  I  see  in  you  so  much  of  myself.  I  get  fed  up  with  waitingaround,  too.  It's  the  hardest  part  of  being  in  the  Guard.  And  it's  twice  as  hard  in  the  I.N.G.  You  want  to  know  why?&quot;  I  did.  &quot;Because  we're  not  even  supposed  to  exist.&quot;  He  puta  big  ice  cube  in  his  mouth  and  ate  it  like  a  cherry.  &quot;'You  see,  So-  viet  spy  satellites  in  low  orbit  are  read-  ing  [REDACTED]  right  now  like  a  children's  book,  and  we  have  to  make  sure  they  see  us  as  a  bunch  of  civilians  in  one-bed-  room  apartments  who  happen  to  like  golf  a  lot.  You  see,  at  peak  strength,  mobilized,  the  [REDACTED]  National  Guard  numbers  fourteen  million  men.  It's  the  biggest  secret  army  in  the  free  world.  And  one  of  the  best  equipped.  We're  one  ace  the  President's  got  that  they  don't  know  about-maybe  the  only  one.  Get  in  my  car,  Dan.&quot;  HE  Colonel's  beige  Buick  Electra  was  moored  in  a  secret  parking  space  under  an  aluminum  roof  beside  the  kitchen.  Aluminum  confuses  the  heck  out  of  radar,  he  explained,  and  beige  is  the  hardest  color  to  remember  afterward.  The  car  shone.  A  good  wax  job,  he  pointed  out,  prevents  a  person  or  persons  from  leaving  messages  in  the  dust.  When  he  turned  the  ignition  key,  the  car  sprang  alive,  antennas  rose,  the  radio  came  on,  the  seats  them-  selves  hummed  with  power,  ready  to  go  forward  or  back  at  a  finger's  touch.  &quot;Always  fasten  your  seatbelt,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It's  one  thing  they'd  never  expect  us  to  do.&quot;  We  cruised  west  into  the  ware-  house  district,  and  he  pointed  out  long,  low  aluminum  I.N.G.  buildings  where  the  hardware  was  kept.  &quot;We  have  more  than  four  thousand  forklifts,  fifty-two  hundred  portable  biffies,  eighteen  bulk-milk  trucks,  and  four  thousand  rider  mowers,&quot;  he  said.  Those  were  the  figures  I  wrote  down.  There  were  also  more  than  six  hun-  " b"dred  infrared  cluster-type  thrusters  with  uplink/downlink/intercept  capability.  &quot;Only  two  thousand  fifty  of  those  puppies  in  the  whole  U.S.,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;So,  you  see,  we're  sitting  on  top  of  one  of  the  larger  secrets  in  the  defense  community.  Our  job:  keep  it  that  way.  It's  tough  to  sit  tight,  no  buts  about  it,  but  whenwe  getthe  word  to  go  I  want  the  other  side  to  find  out  about  us  all  of  a  sudden.  Bang,  we're  there.  I  don't  want  the  enemy  to  be  studying  us  for  three  years  and  getting  a  Ph.D.  The  big  secret  of  the  L.N.G.  is  that  we  could  take  ninety  per  cent  ca-  sualties  with  no  effect  on  our  capability.  I  don't  want  the  enemy  to  know  why.  When  the  time  comes,  I  want  to  be  able  to  get  in  there,  search,  destroy,  inter-  dict,  capture  the  flag,  and  bring  the  boys  home  for  Christmas.&quot;  &quot;Count  me  in,&quot;  I  said  softly  as  the  big  car  nosed  homeward.  &quot;I  want  a  piece  of  it.&quot;  &quot;Just  don't  forget  who  you  are,&quot;  the  Colonel  said.  &quot;Look  relaxed,  but  don't  be  relaxed.  Smile,  but  don't  make  a  point  of  it.  Drink  vodka.  Lots  of  ice.  Lemon,  not  lime.  Not  too  many  peanuts.  Always  turn  the  conversation  to  the  other  person.  Pace  yourself.  Al-  ways  take  the  end  urinal  in  the  men's  room.  Sunday  morning,  take  a  side  pew.  Don't  wash  dishes;  always  dry.  Remember:  you're  a  killer,  a  profes-  sional  killer.  Your  stereo  has  a  sharp  needle  you  could  poke  a  man  in  theeye  with.  You  know  how  to  take  an  ordi-  nary  putter  and  beat  somebody  sense-  less.  With  your  skill,  even  an  ordinary  golf  ball  is  lethal.  Killers  are  what  we  are.  And,  by  the  way,  always  choose  Thousand  Island.&quot;  He  pulled  up  in  front  of  the  Alham-  bra.  Music  drifted  out  from  behind  the  closed  windows,  shadowy  figures  moved  behind  the  drawn  shades.  &quot;So  for  now,  trooper,  your  orders  are  to  stay  low:  play  good  golf,  drink  cold  beer,  and  make  love  to  beautiful  women.  And  let's  just  hope  the  Rus-  sians  aren't  doing  the  same.&quot;  He  came  around  to  open  the  door  for  me,  but  I  was  ready  for  him,  and  when  he  tried  to  kick  me  I  got  him  by  the  ankle  and  flipped  him  up  on  the  roof  of  the  Buick  and  pounded  him  twice,  hard,  in  the  pancreas.  &quot;Good,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Darned  good.&quot;  lecture  changed  my  way  of  thinking,  and  for  the  remaining  two  months  of  Guard  training  I  tried     to  actas  normal  as  humanly  possible.  It  wasn't  easy.  A  guy  looks  down  at  his  typewriter  knowing  it  can  be  switched  over  instantly  to  invisible  ink  simply  by  typing  &quot;Hoosier&quot;  (a  word  that  even  Russians  fluent  in  English  would  not  be  familiar  with),  and  he  finds  it  hard  to  relax  and  have  a  cool  time.  (I  kept  my  typewriter  set  on  in-  visible  most  of  the  time,  in  case  I  forgot  the  password.)  We  had  to  remember  to  always  use  electric  golf  carts  on  the  course,  for  fast  response  in  case  of  a  Code  Green  alert.  The  ra-  dio  signal  would  be  two  longs  and  a  short,  on  either  a  horn  or  a  saxo-  phone,  on  &quot;The  Don  Davis  Show,&quot;  on  K-WAYNE,  or  on  my  own  &quot;Dan  the  Man  Show,&quot;  on  the  Gentle  Gi-  ant  101  (2:00-6:00  p.m.).  Being  an  information  officer  meant  that  I  knew  a  great  deal,  and  having  a  popular  radio  show  meant  that  I  was  in  a  position  to  sway  minds,  and  so,  in  the  event  of  enemy  capture,  I  was  prepared  to  take  cyanide.  On  the  golf  course,  I  kept  it  hidden  in  a  fake  ball  (I  al-  ways  used  my  dad's  Top-Flites,  but  one  ball,  which  could  be  pried  open  to  reveal  the  deadly  white  pill  wound  with  string  in  the  core,  was  marked  &quot;Top  Flight'&quot;-a  discrepancy  a  Rus-  sian  would  never  notice),  and  in  the  radio  studio  I  kept  the  cyanide  in  a  tiny  slit  cut  in  the  foam  rubber  around  the  microphone.  All  I  had  to  do  was  lean  forward  and  bite.  It  wasn't  easy  playing  music  knowing  that  death  was  always  two  inches  from  my  lips,  but  I  did  it.  And  then  one  day  the  war  was  over.  All  of  us  knew  that  if  the  President  had  pursued  an  all-out  strategy  to  win  the  war  andhad  unleashed  the  IL.N.G. against  the  Vietcong  the  outcome  would  have  been  very  different,  but  we  were  never  allowed  to  go.  We  never  blamed  the  President  for  it-his  hands  were  tied  by  the  press  and  the  protest-  ers-but  the  tragedy  is  that  we  never  got  the  chance  to  get  over  there  and  get  the  job  done.  Twenty  years  later,  millions  of  In-  diana  National  Guardsmen  suffer  from  postwar  regret,  waking  up  in  the  mid-  dle  of  the  night  with  an  urge  to  go  out  in  the  rain  and  hunker  down  in  the  mud,  to  hold  a  gun  and  use  a  walkie-  talkie  and  for  a  while  I  felt  bad  like  that,  too,  and  made  a  point  of  playing  golf  in  extremely  hot  weather  and  not  drinking  enough  liquids,  deliberately  pushing  myself  toward  the  edge.  It  was  on  a  real  scorcher  of  a  day,  playing  the  Gary  Country  Club,  that  I  met  Colonel  Mills  for  the  last  time.  He  was  dressed  in  regulation  green  and  yellow,  blast-  ing  out  of  a  sand  trap.  He  made  a  per-  fect  shot  and  turned  and  saw  me  and  we  exchanged  the  traditional  National  Guard  wink.  (Russians  do  not  wink,  and  therefore  would  fail  to  comprehend  this  signal.)  &quot;How's  civilian  life  treating  you?&quot;  he  asked.  I  told  him  how  I  felt  and  he  stood  there  and  said,  &quot;You  should  be  proud,  soldier.  You  didn't  burn  the  flag,  you  didn't  go  to  [REDACTED].  You  did  your  job.  Accept  the  rewards  of  a  grateful  nation.&quot;  Then  he  turned  on  his  heel  and  went  straight  up  and  over  a  steep  hill  in  front  of  the  green,  and  I  never  saw  him  again.  About  three  years  after  that,  I  actu-  ally  did  go  to  [REDACTED]  for  a  weekend.  It  was  O.K.,  but,  based  on  what  I  saw,  I  was  glad  that  I  hadn't  gone  there  before.   "