 b"The  first  is  simple,  the  second  less  so.  It's  Sunday  afternoon.  The  firemen  are  washing  the  fire  trucks,  sending  great  streams  of  water  into  the  air  and  filling  the  gutters  with  soapsuds.  It  reminds  me  of  elephants  taking  baths.  Other  firemen  are  sweeping  out  the  firehouse,  or  trimming  weeds  with  a  snarling  electric  wand.  Sunday  after-  noon  is  when  they  do  this  sort  of  thing.  The  fire  station  is  at  the  entrance  to  the  subdivision,  so  peopledriving  to  and  from  Sunday  errands  can  gaze  approv-  ingly  at  the  firemen.  Volwnteers,  people  think,  impressed.  I  live  next  door  to  the  firehouse,  which  is  an  aluminum-sided  building  with  a  flagpole.  I  live  in  a  disreputable  corner  of  an  exemplary  neighborhood.  You  reach  our  subdivision  by  driving  a  few  miles  down  the  highway,  past  a  shopping  center  and  a  couple  of  super-  annuated  farmhouses.  It  is  nearly  al-  ways  Sunday  afternoon  here.  It  is  the  sort  of  neighborhood  that  real-estate  agents  enjoy  touring  with  clients,  pointing  out  its  virtues  from  their  pneumatic  front  seats.  The  lawns  groomed  with  military  precision,  and  the  houses  sit  on  them  like  closed  mouths.  If  a  garage  door  opens,  it  reveals  the  organizational  splendor  of  hardware-store  advertisements:  tools  on  pegboards,  lawn  chairs  on  hooks,  garden-hose  caddies,  sparkling  con-  crete.  There  is  always  a  ball  of  some  sort,  either  aloft  or  smacking  on  a  sidewalk.  There  is  a  child  on  a  bicycle  and  a  dog  barking  at  nothing.  At  night  no  one  lives  here.  That's  what  you'd  think.  The  lights  are  out  by  ten,  except  for  the  ornamental  lamp-  posts  in  one  or  another  front  yard,  throwing  arcs  of  light  on  the  white,  white  gravel  of  flower  beds,  on  the  acid-green  grass.  In  a  darkened  room,  a  blue  aquarium  sends  up  bubbles,  and  fish  circle  their  plastic  coral,  castles,  mermaids.  Everyone  is  asleep,  or  at  least  invisible.  You  try  to  imagine  sex,  anger,  insomnia,  grief.  But  everything  is  too  well  hidden,  muffled  behind  lay-  ers  of  glass  and  draperies  and  silence.  The  night  is  unacknowledged.  But  some  nights  the  siren  sounds.  Men  rise  up  from  their  beds,  not  yet  awake,  still  dreaming  of  fires.  Their  hearts  are  large  with  excitement  and  hurry.  Dark  figures  lope  across  the  grass,  calling  to  each  other.  The  fire  trucks  go  screaming  out  onto  the  high-  way,  most  often  to  some  country  dis-  trict,  returning  a  couple  of  hours  later  to  fill  the  night  with  unnatural  light  and  noise.  This  is  when  I  hear  them.  I  can  sleep  through  the  siren,  but  the  laughter  of  the  men  wakes  me,  and  I  go  to  the  window  to  watch.  The  men  take  their  time  folding  the  hoses  and  ma-  neuvering  the  trucks  back  into  place.  The  night  is  over  but  they  linger,  reluctant  to  let  the  excitement  go.  When  they  do  return  home  the  more  anxious  of  the  wives  will  be  waiting  up  for  them,  offering  coffee,  asking,  Was  it  a  bad  one?  Was  anyone  hurt?  The  husbands  shake  their  heads.  No  big  deal,  they  say,  yawning.  It  was  a  trash  fire.  Or  a  field  fire.  More  yawn-  ing.  Jeez,  I'm  beat.  And  they  go  off  to  bed  for  a  last  hour  or  two  of  sleep.  The  wives  are  left  feeling  they've  been  cheated.  I'm  imagining  that  last  part.  I  live  alone,  a  suspect  woman  in  a  neighbor-  hood  of  families.  How  would  I  know  what  the  wives  and  husbands  say?  There  is  always  something  happen-  ing  at  the  firehouse.  The  firemen  keep  busy  with  raffles,  yard  sales,  fund-  raisers  of  all  sorts.  They  havean  annual  pancake  breakfast  (spring),  and  a  chili  supper  (fall).  At  these  events,  the  fire-  men's  wives  don  aprons  and  serve  up  food  on  plastic  trays.  I've  eaten  it,  trying  to  be  a  good  neighbor.  On  pancake  day  or  chili  day,  the  cars  start  arriving  early.  All  day  long,  the  hungry  and  sociable  disembark.  Inside,  people  sit  at  long  tables  drinking  milk  from  cartons  or  iced  tea  from  sweating  plastic  glasses.  It's  a  friendly  group.  Everybody  knows  everybody  else.  The  fire-  men's  wives  bustle  im-  portantly  in  the  kitchen.  They  are  stern,  compe-  tent  women,  managing  their  children  with  effi-  cient  threats,  wrinkling  their  noses  over  ciga-  " b"rettes,  scrubbing  and  dis-  infecting  energetically.  I  sit  at  one  of  the  tables  ruminating  over  my  milk,  chewing  thoroughly.  Even  while  eating  I  maintain  a  pleasant,  neutral  ex-  pression-someone  will-  ing,  though  not  anxious,  to  make  friends.  But  no  one  talks  to  me.  My  solitude  embarrasses  them,  and  finally  me.  The  pancakes  accumulate  in  my  stomach  like  a  stack  of  mattresses;  the  chili  solidifies.  Eating  this  food  is  a  ritual  for  me,  the  way  eating  the  heart  of  bear  was  for  Indians.  If  I  eat  my  neighbors'  food,  will  my  house  grow  as  sleek  and  prosperous  as  theirs?  My  house  is,  I'm  sure,  a  grief  to  them.  It  is  a  sur-  vivor  of  predevelopment  times,  a  shabby  bungalow  that  must  have  been  un-  impressive  even  when  new.  It  is  the  sort  of  house  the  real-estate  agents  refer  to  darkly  as  &quot;rental  proper-  ty.&quot;  The  gutters  sag.  The  paint  blisters.  The  flowers  in  my  odd  garden-daisies,golden  yarrow,  orange  cosmos-have  a  weedy,  overgrown  look  to  them.  I  live  somewhere  between  halfhearted  effort  and  eyesore.  My  plumbing  sweats.  My  driveway  is  bald  in  patches.  My  lawn  distresses  everyone  from  April  through  September.  The  lawn  is  how  I  met  Clark.  To  explain:  I  have  too  much  lawn,  a  third  acre  of  dispirited  grass  punctuated  by  thistle  and  dandelion.  I  wish  it  would  turn  brown  and  stunted.  Either  that  or  come  up  in  wildflowers,  a  meadow.  Anyway,  I  was  trying  to  mow  my  lawn.  I  usually  try,  and  get  just  so  far  before  I  give  up  and  hire  someone  else  to  finish  it.  This  time,  I  couldn't  get  the  mower  started.  Each  time  I  yanked  at  the  thing,  it  barked  and  stopped  short  of  turning  over.  Each  time,  I  swore  and  bruised  myself  against  it.  I  couldn't  win  and  I  couldn't  hurt  it.  The  muscle  in  my  shoulder  felt  torn.  Sweat  was  growing  on  me  like  fur.  I  considered  going  berserk,  then  straightened  my  back  and  called,  &quot;Hey,  could  you  help  me  a  minute?&quot;  That  was  Clark.  He  was  next  door  at  the  fire  station,  dragging  boxes  out  to  the  trash.  I  didn't  know  him  then.  He's  blond,  and  all  summer  long  he  looks  boiled  from  the  sun.  A  spare,  rangy  man  who  walks  with  a  hitch,  as  if  his  shoulders  were  out  of  line.  You  don't  think  there's  any  size  at  all  to  him  until  you  stand  up  next  to  him.  I  don't  know  what  I  looked  like  that  day.  Pissed  off,  and  wearing  something  I  could  cut  the  grass  in.  Clark  approached,  looking  startled.  Or  maybe  it  was  just  his  blond  eye-  brows.  &quot;I  can't  get  this  mower  started,&quot;  I  announced.  I  wanted  to  say  the  goddam,  son-of-a-bitch  mower.  I  wanted  to  sound  tough.  I  was  embar-  rassed  about  asking  for  help.  Clark  didn't  say  anything.  He  never  says  much  of  anything.  He  stooped  over  the  mower,  gave  it  an  experimen-  tal  tug.  I  felt  better  when  it  wouldn't  start  for  him  either.  Another  yank. This  time  he  was  getting  his  back  into  it.  The  mower  kicked  and  coughed.  Greasy  smoke  erupted  from  it  in  a  steady  stream,  turning  the  grass  blue-  black.  It  was  genuinely  alarming,  as  if  I  really  would  need  a  fireman  in  a  minute.  Clark  shut  the  mower  off.  We  watched  it  bubble  blackly  to  a  halt.  &quot;You  put  oil  in  it  lately?&quot;  he  asked.  His  voice  was  light,  flat,  perfectly  Midwestern.  If  he  was  laughing  at  me,  I  couldn't  tell.  I  figured  out  later  that  he  wasn't.  &quot;Too  much,  huh?&quot;  I  said,  regarding  the  oil  pooling  on  the  mower's  surface.  I  felt  as  mortified  as  if  shit  had  poured  out  of  the  thing.  Clark  wiped  his  hands  on  a  nearby  patch  of  weeds.  &quot;You'll  have  to  drain  all  that  out,&quot;  he  advised  me.  &quot;Drain  it  out  and  start  over.  How  much  oil  you  put  in  there,  anyway?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  really  don't  know.&quot;  I  shrugged.  I'd  put  in  most  of  a  quart,  but  I  was  damned  if  I  was  going  to  admit  it.  &quot;Thanks  for  your  help.&quot;  He  said  it  was  no  problem.  We  in-  " b"troduced  ourselves.  He  lived  just  down  the  street,  he  said,  pointing.  I  knew  which  house  was  his.  When  Clark  cuts  his  grass,  he  uses  a  riding  mower.  Afterward  his  lawn  has  a  pattern  in  it,  perfect  diagonal  stripes.  The  diagonals  knocked  me  out.  They  indicated  either  compulsiveness  or  artistic  nonconfor-  mity,  I  couldn't  decide  which.  &quot;Night  before  last,  I  heard  the  si-  rens,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Was  it  a  big  fire?&quot;  &quot;Night  before-  Oh.  Nah.  Not  re-  ally.&quot;  &quot;Where  was  it?&quot;I  persisted.  I  was  tired  of  not  knowing  things.  And  I  wanted  to  keep  him  talking.  &quot;County  Line  Road.  This  house  trailer.  Nobody  home.  We  think  it  was  electrical.&quot;  &quot;Electrical,&quot;  I  repeated.  I  didn't  like  to  hear  things  like  that.  As  if  the  walls  of  all  houses  were  threaded  with  muti-  nous  wires,  twining  like  ivy,  conspir-  ing  against  you.  &quot;I  hatea  trailer  fire,&quot;  said  Clark.  \xc2\xab'Those  things  burn  like  cereal  boxes.  People  shouldn't  live  in  them.&quot;  The  line  of  sunburn  under  his  eyes  darkened.  Talking  about  fires  seemed  to  energize  him.  He  brushed  the  sweat  from  his  forehead  with  the  back  of  his  hand.  He  looked  strong.  I  imagined  him  climbing  tall  ladders  into  smoke,  swaying  with  the  high-pressure  stream  of  water.  &quot;Where  should  they  live,  then?&quot;  &quot;Pardon?&quot;  'Some  people  can't  live  anywhere  else.  That's  what  trailers  are  for.&quot;  Clark  looked  at  me,  visibly  thinking.  You  could  see  different  thoughts  tug-  ging  him  this  way  and  that.  His  nose  twitched.  His  eyebrows  converged.  He  was  trying  to  figure  me  out,  why  I  lived  the  way  Idid,  alone  and  out  of  place.  He  looked  guilty,  embarrassed.  &quot;I  guess  so,&quot;  he  said.  Then,  &quot;You  should  get  a  dog.&quot;  &quot;Pardon?&quot;  &quot;A  dog.  Nobody  bothers  you  when  you  have  a  dog.&quot;  &quot;But  nobody  bothers  me  now,&quot;  I  said.  Clark  shrugged.  &quot;You  never  know  about  people.&quot;  &quot;Maybe  not,&quot;  I  said.  He  was  alarm-  ing  me.  I  wondered  what  it  meant  when  someone  looked  at  you  imagining  how  easily  you  could  be  hurt.  &quot;Don't  worry,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;We  keep  an  eye  on  you  from  the  firehouse.  We  watch  out  for  things.  Remember  to drainout  that  oil.&quot;  He  ducked  his  head  and  smiled  a  quick,  jerky  smile.  It  was  more  than  a  week  before  I  got  the  grass  cut.  I  TAKE  a  walk  through  my  neigh-  borhood.  Who  here  would  do  me  harm?  It's  twilight.  The  lawns  are  velvet,  and  kindly  yellow  light  spills  from  the  windows.  On  the  next  block  are  the  Holidays.  That's  what  I  call  them,  though  it's  not  the  name  on  their  mailbox.  As  regularly  as  a  grade  school,  their  house  displays  the  trap-  pings  of  the  season.  Festoons  of  paper  hearts  a  month  before  Valentine's  Day.  Then  eggs  and  bunnies,  then  patri-otic  bunting,  then  jack-o'-lanterns  and  witches.  Turkeys  in  November,  Christmas  an  explosion  of  lights  and  plastic  Santas.  Every  night,  the  prem-  ises  are  lit  up  like  a  prison  yard.  The  Holidays  are  bizarre,  but  they're  not  the  sort  of  people  Clark  warned  me  about.  Their  eccentricities  are  too  well  displayed  to  be  dangerous.  They  have  no  secrets.  They  are  noth-  ing  to  fear.  They  are  a  skin  turned  inside  out.  At  Clark's  house  there  is  a  gap  in  the  drapes  and  the  color  TV  is  alight.  From  the  sidewalk  it  looks  like  a  lumi-  nous  marble,  or  like  the  earth  seen  from  space.  Someone's  head  is  visible,  resting  on  a  chair.  From  the  back  I  can't  tell  if  it's  Clark  or  Mrs.  Clark  or  their  son.  Mrs.  Clark  is  a  tall  woman  with  amorphous  hair.I  see  her  only  from  a  distance,  tending  to  garbage  cans  or  lawn  sprinklers.  I  imagine  what  she  and  Clark  say  to  each  other:  The  roses  need  fertilizing.  Didyou  fix  the  window?  The  washer?  One  gallon  latex  semigloss  white.  Kleenex.  " b"Their  boy  is  about  ten.  Blond,  like  Clark.  I've  never  talked  to  him,  though  I've  seen  him  often.  He  speeds  down  the  sidewalk  on  his  bicycle,  coming  up  be-  hind  so  fast  and  so  si-  lently  all  you  feel  is  the  sting  of  the  air  blowing  past  you,  a  whirring  like  an  insect.  Sometimes  the  boy  looks  back.  To  see  if  he's  frightened  you?'  I  don't  know  his  name.  I  see  him  with  other  such  boys,  calling  out  to  each  other  from  their  bicy-  cles,  shouting  taunts.  The  boys  are  restless,  shrill,  bored.  They  pedal  the  bicycles  fu-  riously,  as  if  this  might  make  them  grow  up  faster.  They  argue  over  baseball  gamesand  hand-  (\xc2\xa9  fuls  of  coins.  They  set  -*  off  forbidden  firecrack-  (&amp;C  ers.  If  there  were  large  enough  trees  here,  they  would  build  tree  houses.  Instead,  they  erect  back-  yard  tents,  which  they  inhabit  all  summer  long,  reading  comic  books  with  flashlights,  filling  their  mouths  with  soda,  Oreos,  bubble  gum  in  the  shape  of  robots.  Restless,  shrill,  by  turns  languid  and  hyperki-  netic,  they  seem  to  me  both  alarming  and  hopeful.  They  are  unformed;  they  are  not  yet  respectable.  \xe2\x80\x9cW  HAT  is  it  you  like  about  fight,  ing  fires?&quot;  I  ask  Clark  one  afternoon.  He  shrugs.  He  either  doesn't  want  to  answer  or  wants  me  to  pull  it  out  of  him.  I  anticipate  this;  I'm  ready  to  be  patient.  &quot;I  mean,  I'd  be  scared.&quot;  KKNah.\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;Come  on.  Aren't  you  afraid  of  what  could  happen?&quot;  &quot;A  chemical  fire.  You  worry  about  those,  sure,&quot;  says  Clark.  We're  standing  on  my  front  porch.  I'd  ask  him  to  sit  down,  but  that  would  startle  him,  make  him  take  flight.  Standing,  we  can  talk  all  day.  &quot;You  go  into  a  warehouse,  farm  shed,  place  like  that.  You  don't  know what  all's  in  there.  Things  start  pop-  ping,  they  could  be  caustics,  explosives,  anything.  Stuffs  like  nerve  gas.  Go  in  without  your  air,  you're  cooked.&quot;  &quot;I  never  thought  of  that,&quot;  I  say.  \xc2\xabThat  would  be  bad,  all  right.&quot;  Then,  craftily,  &quot;The  lumberyard.  You  must  have  liked  that  one.&quot;  Clark  grins  his  sideways  grin.  It's  as  if  one  side  of  his  mouth  is  trying  to  hide  the  other.  &quot;It  was  something.&quot;  People  drove  to  the  lumberyard  fire  as  if  it  were  a  parade.  There  was  never  a  question  of  putting  the  fire  out.  It  burned  hot  and  clean,  a  rolling  orange  flame  in  the  shape  of  a  ragged  paint-  brush.  People  crowded  against  the  bar-  ricades,  wanting  to  get  close  enough  for  it  to  feel  mildly  dangerous.  Six  fire  companies  were  there,  talking  into  ra-  dios,  marching  around  the  perimeter  in  their  heavy  rubber  boots  and  coats.  (Are  they  really  rubber?  I'll  have  to  ask  Clark.)  When  the  roof  went,  it  didn't  happen  all  at  once,  the  way  I  thought  it  would.  It  seemed  to  take  a  long  time, and  it  made  a  noise  like  a  waterfall.  Who  would  have  thought  fire  could  sound  like  water?  We  watched  the  roof  sink  in  on  itself,  making  ahole  in  the  great  flame  we'd  almost  come  to  believe  was  solid.  New  flames  licked  up  from  it,  new  sparks  somersaulted  through  the  air.  The  firemen  watched,  too,  no  longer  pretending  to  do  anything.  We  were  all  in  love  with  it.  We  didn't  want  it  to  go  out.  I  had  a  vision  of  us  feeding  the  flames,  of  people  scurrying  to  bring  it  fuel,  tossing  microwaves,  minibikes,  Mr.  Coffees,  La-Z-Boys  into  the  fire.  The  heap  of  things  grows.  The  fire  consumes  golf  clubs  and  toaster  ovens.  And  everyone  is  peaceful  and  content,  watching.  Recollecting  myself,  I  say  to  Clark,  &quot;No  one  got  hurt,  either.  That's  im-  portant.&quot;  Clark  nods,  looking  pious.  &quot;'That's  the  real  satisfaction  of  this  job.&quot;  I  say,  &quot;What  would  you  do  if  there  weren't  any  fires?&quot;  He's  looking  at  me,  and  everything      " b"about  him  is  completely  still  except  his  eyes.  His  eyes  are  fixed  on  my  face.  They  are  moving  him  closer  without  his  taking  a  step.  The  late-afternoon  shadows  pass  over  us  like  breath.  He  says,  &quot;Once  in  a  while  I  .  ..&quot;  At  the  same  moment  we  both  hear  it,  that  small  insect  whine  of  gears.  Clark's  son  coasts  by  on  the  sidewalk  slowly,  balancing  on  his  bicycle  pedals  in  a  sort  of  parade  rest.  One  hand  hoists  something  to  his  mouth,  some-  thing  purple  on  a  stick.  His  face,  turned  toward  us,  staring,  is  elongated  by  the  labor  of  sucking.  He  resembles  a  little  blond  horse.  The  pedals  click;  he's  gone.  &quot;Getting  late,&quot;  says  Clark.  &quot;Been  nice  talking  to  you.&quot;  I  sit  on  the  porch  after  sunset.  It's  suppertime,  TV  time.  If  you  were  to  invade  the  grid  of  privacy  fences  that  mark  the  back  yards,  those  fences  within  fences,  a  stockade  of  houses  defended  against  themselves,  you'd  see  families  bathed  in  the  light  of  the  cath-  ode  ray.  An  enormous  car  passes  by.  It's  some  mutant  species  of  Lincoln,  bronze  and  caramel,  metal  made  tore-  semble  wood,  and  so  long  it  seems  to  bend  around  corners.  The  tires  are     white,  the  glass  is  tinted  the  color  of  tobacco.  There  are  little  chrome  crests,  crossed  swords,  miniature  ban-  ners,  scrolls.  The  car  has  a  calculated  heraldic  look,  as  if  it  was  inspired  by  an  old  Robin  Hood  movie.  Itrolls  ma-  jestically  down  the  street  and  out  of  sight.  f  I  '\\HINGS  begin  to  go  wrong-  little  things  at  first.  A  bicycle  disappears  from  a  back  porch.  A  gar-  bage  can  is  rolled  into  the  street.  A  mailbox  is  knocked  off  its  moorings.  People  are  puzzled,  then  outraged.  Neighbors  regard  each  other  warily  over  the  fences.  Small  mischief,  but  it  does  a  disproportionate  amount  of  damage.  The  polite  theory  is  that  out-  siders,  deprived  and  envious  youths  from  less  fortunate  districts,  have  in-  vaded  us,  but  in  reality  everyone  sus-  pects  everyone  else's  children.  Then  the  Holidays  are  victimized.  Someone  heaves  a  rock  through  the  picture  window  where  they  have  dis-  played,  in  the  sweat  of  August,  a  Hal-  loween  witch.  The  next  day  a  repair  van  pulls  up  in  their  driveway  along  with  a  sombre  car,  most  probably  the  insurance  agent's.  When  the  window  is  replaced  it's  left  vacant,  as  if  in  mourning.  Who  would  do  something  so  mean-spirited?  So  petty?  So  auda-  cious?  &quot;I  would,&quot;  I  say  to  Clark.  &quot;If  I  thought  I  could  get  away  with  it.&quot;  We're  eating  peanut-butter-and-  jelly  sandwiches  in  bed.  Peanut  butter  and  jelly  is  all  we  could  find  in  the  kitchen.  The  television  is  on  and  we're  hitting  the  remote  switch:  talk  shows,  baseball,  Japanese  science  fiction.  I  like  Clark  better  with  his  clothes  off,.  The  pattern  of  white  and  sunburn  reminds  me  of  the  pattern  in  his  lawn.  &quot;I  hope  the  siren  doesn't  start,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;I  hope  you  don't  have  to  jump  up  and  go  fight  a  fire.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  care.  Everything  can  burn  down.&quot;  &quot;You  don't  mean  that.&quot;  He  rolls  onto  me,  fast,  so  his  weight  pushes  the  breath  out  of  me.  On  the  television,  a  cardboard  Japanese  city  sways  and  totters.  The  tiny  screams  are  blotted  out  by  Clark's  warm  mouth  on  my  ear.  He  breathes  peanut  butter.  &quot;Don't  be  so  sure,&quot;  he  whispers.  EVENING.  I  am  walking  my  dog.  The  dog  is  an  elderly  spaniel  with  jowls,  and  pouchy  fat  dangling  from  him  like  an  udder.  The  dog's  name  is  Snoopy.  &quot;Good  dog,&quot;  I  say  to  him,  making  conversation.  &quot;Good  Snoopy.&quot;  He  looks  up  at  me  with  sorrowing,  red-  rimmed  eyes.  He  reminds  me  too  much  of  my  shabby  furniture  and  mismatched  plates.  Still,  I  enjoy  walking  him.  A  dog  gives  you  an  excuse  for  a  walk.  It's  a  kind  of  camouflage,  as  well  as  protec-  tion.  With  a  dog,  no  one  suspects  you  of  nosiness  or  idling.  You  become  less  visible.  Clark  was  right.  No  one  will  bother  me.  We're  rounding  the  corner  toward  home  when  I  hear  the  sirens.  The  trucks  are  just  pulling  out,  swaying  as  they  make  the  turn.  The  men  holding  on  behind  look  precarious  and  small.  The  sirens  recede  in  the  distance,  like  sound  falling  down  a  well.  By  the  time  we  reach  my  yard,  the  fire  trucks  are  back.  No  noise  this  time,  no  flourishes.  The  men  drop  off  the  truck  and  walk  away  quickly,  as  if  embarrassed.  I  look  for  Clark  but  don't  see  him.  &quot;What  happened?&quot;  I  call  to  one  man,  a  man  with  a  blue  T-shirt  and  a  potbelly.  Not  all  the  firemen  are  in  good  shape,  like  Clark.  The  man  gives  me  a  look.  &quot;False  alarm,&quot;  he  says  curtly,  and  points  his  " b'stomach  down  the  block  toward  home.  T  rains  for  a  week  and  no  one  can  cut  the  grass.  When  I  let  the  dog  out  he  squats  miserably  at  the  edge  of  the  yard.  He  has  a  constant  smell  of  old  rug.  My  neighbors  worry  about  their  sump  pumps  and  ga-  rage  roofs.  At  night  we  sleep  in  a  world  of  water,  the  sound  of  it  soaking  into  our  dreams.  Clark\'s  sunburn  is  fading.  I  tease  him  about  it,  tell  him  I\'m  going  to  get  a  sunlamp  and  adhesive  tape  and  burn  my  initials  all  over  his  body  like  tattoos.  But  he\'s  gloomy.  &quot;I\'m  not  happy,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;I\'m  tired  of  being  a  fire-  man.&quot;  I  look  at  him,  startled.  Why?\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;I  don\'t  know.  There  aren\'t  any  good  fires  now.  It\'s  just  not  the  same.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Maybe  people  don\'t  ap-  preciate  you?  They  take  you  for  granted?&quot;  &quot;It  used  to  be  enough,&quot;  Clark  says  mournfully,  &quot;keeping  things  clean,  staying  alert.  Now,  who  cares?&quot;  &quot;I\'ve  done  this  to  you,&quot;  I  tell  him.  He  lets  his  hand  graze  my  breast,  tries  to  make  a  joke.  &quot;I  didn\'t  know  how  much  I  was  getting  into.&quot;  &quot;You  were  happy  before  you  met  me.&quot;  &quot;But  I  didn\'t  know  I  was  happy.  What  good  did  it  do  me?&quot;  I  don\'t  have  an  answer  for  that  and  he  mopes  on  home,  his  shoes  squishing  with  rain.  I  think  the  whole  neighborhood  has  been  infected  with  discontent.  A  mail-  box  sags  on  a  broken  hinge.  Hedges  grow  leggy.  A  door  slams,  cutting  off  the  sound  of  an  argument.  There\'s  nothing  good  on  TV.  When  the  rain  pauses  from  time  to  time,  low  clouds  remain,  pressing  the  smell  of  swamp  into  everything.  One  night,  just  after  I  turn  my  lights  out,  I  hear  something  beneath  the  bedroom  window.  Whispers,  some-  one  giggling.  The  dog  snores  undis-  turbed  at  the  foot  of  the  bed.  I  creep  to  the  window.  &quot;Chicken,&quot;  I  hear  a  voice  say  distinctly.  A  boy\'s  voice.  &quot;You  do  it then," says  another.  &quot;Go  ahead.  It  was  your  idea,  big  shot.&quot;  Just  then  the  dog  awakes  and,  snuf-  fling  with  confusion,  hurls  himself  at  the  window,  baying.  They  are  so  young  their  voices  are  still  girls\'  voices  when  they  scream.  They  bolt  away  across  the  wet  grass  too  fast  for  me  to  see  their  faces.  Clark\'s  son\'s  name  is  Cliff.  I  ask  Clark  about  him  and  he  says,  &quot;Funny  kid.  Won\'t  talk  anymore.  Ask  him  a  question,  he  looks  out  the  window.  Name,  rank,  and  serial  number,  that\'s  all  you  get  out  of  him  these  days.&quot;  I  tell  Clark  it\'s  just  the  age  he  is,  a  phase.  I  sneak  up  behind  Cliff  when  he\'s  on  his  bicycle.  I  have  to  hide  in  the  shrub-  bery  for  hours,  as  if  it  were  a  duck-  blind.  I  wait  for  the  whir  and  click  of  his  gears,  then  spring  out,  wrestling  his  handlebars  to  a  stop.  &quot;Gotcha.&quot;  He  topples  off  his  bicycle  but  lands  on  his  feet.  Even  now,  he  only  looks  me  in  the  eye  for  a  moment,  then  his  face  closes  up  again.  Tough  kid.  &quot;Gimme  my  bike,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;What  were  you  doing  under  my  window?&quot;  &quot;I  didn\'t  do  nothing,&quot;  he  says,  ad-  dressing  the  air  to  the  left  of  my  head.  &quot;Bullshit.&quot;  The  great  thing  about  ten-year-olds  is  that  you  don\'t  have  to  watch  your  language.  &quot;I  caught  you  red-handed.&quot;  You  can\'t  prove  nothing.&quot;  &quot;I  don\'t  have  to.  Look  at  you.  You  have  one  of  those  naturally  guilty  faces.  You  ought  to  do  something  about  it.  Otherwise  you\'re  going  to  spend  your  life  in  police  lineups.&quot;  He  takes  this  as  a  compliment.  Plea-  sure  fleets  across  his  face,  then  he  flat-  tens  it  again,  looking  sulky.  Nice  talking  to  you,  Cliff.&quot;  &quot;Call  me  Spike,&quot;  he  says,  coasting  down  the  sidewalk.  HE  rain  stops,  but  in  its  place  is  a  glaring,  no-color  sky.  Every-  thing  feels  sticky,  everyone  is  stupefied  with  heat.  &quot;Dog  days,&quot;  I  tell  Snoopy.  He\'s  wrapped  himself  around  the  toilet  and  he  lies  there,  panting  shallowly.  I\'m  in  the  bathtub.  I\'ve  been  there  all  morning.  I\'m  trying  to  shrivel  my-  self  up  entirely.  Skin  is  the  enemy  in  this  weather.  Then  I  hear  the  peculiar  moan  and  wrench  of  the  plumbing,  which  means  next  door  the  firemen  are  ' b"opening  a  hydrant.  An  unmistakable  sound,  invasive  and  guttural.  As  I  lie  in  the  bathtub,  it  feels  like  someone  is  goosing  me.  I  dress  hurriedly  and  go  to  the  door.  It's  a  strange  sight.  The  firemen  are  lined  up  in  military  formation,  at  at-  tention.  In  spite  of  the  heat,  they  are  wearing  full  regalia:  hats,  boots,  gloves,  long  shaggy  coats.  Each  fire-  man  clutches  a  bouquet  of  wilting  back-yard  flowers:  petunias,  snapdrag-  ons,  zinnias.  The  fire  chief  is  reading  from  a  small  book,  and  when  he  closes  it  the  men,  on  cue,  drop  the  flowers  into  the  stream  of  water  making  its  way  along  the  curb.  They  stand  for  a  mo-  ment  with  bowed  heads,  then  they  troop  inside.  It  looks  curiously  like  a  funeral,  though  for  no  one  in  particu-  lar.  IT\xe2\x80\x99S  evening,  and  not  one  breath  cooler.  Clark  has  heat  rash  on  his  stomach.  He  scratches  it  ferociously,  leaving  clawed  red  crescents.  &quot;I  wish  you'd  stop  that.&quot;  He  gives  me  an  ugly  look.  &quot;I  thought  that  was  your  whole  philoso-  phy.  If  you  have  an  itch,  scratch  it,  and  damn  the  consequences.&quot;  &quot;Guilt-tripping.  I  should  have  known  you'd  get  to  that.&quot;  His  face  turns  the  color  of  his  in-  flamed  skin,  and  red  seeps  into  his  eyes.  He  draws  in  his  breath.  &quot;All  right,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;I'll  take  my  share  of  the  respon-  sibility.&quot;  &quot;I  hate  that  word,&quot;  I  say.  My  turn  to  sound  bitter.  I  know  it's  all  over  and  I've  lost  something.  &quot;Things  were  better  before,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Everyone  knew  who  they  were  and  how  to  behave.  We  didn't  have  secrets.  Everything  was  out  in  the  open.&quot;  You'd  better  get  onhome,&quot;  I  tell  him,  wanting  him  gone  now.  He  bounds  through  the  room,  snatching  up  his  clothes.  He's  that  grateful  to  be  leaving.  At  the  doorhe  hesitates,  seems  as  if  he's  about  to  shake  my  hand.  Kisses  me  instead.  &quot;I'm  sorry,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;I'm  not  the  man  you  thought  I  was.&quot;  &quot;Remember  to  put  something  on  that  rash,&quot;  I  tell  him.  IT\xe2\x80\x99S  Sunday  afternoon.  We  all  have  our  jobs  to  do.  The  firemen  are  painting  the  trim  on  the  firehouse.  They  have  erected  scaffolding,  a  kind  of  exoskeleton,  around  the  building.  They  haul  buckets  up  and  down,  or  they  take  turns  standing  back  to  admire  their  work.  Clark  is  perched  on  the  topmost  rung  of  the  scaffold,  showing  off.  He  is  painting  the  very  highest  board.  It  looks  as  if  he  were  painting  the  sky.  The  muscles  in  his  reaching  arm  form  one  long  arc.  Reaching,  reaching  .  ..  the  scaffolding  begins  to  shake  and  clank,  threatening  disaster.  Finally  he  steadies  himself  and  climbs  down,  grinning,  as  though  he  knew  all  along  he  wouldn't  fall.  Next  door  I'm  doing  laundry.  I'm  hanging  all  my  best  underwear  on  the  back-yard  clothesline,  pinning  it  care-  fully  so  the  wind  puffs  everything  into  anatomical  shapes.  On  the  other  side  of  the  back  fence  children  are  playing  with  cap  guns  and  making  realistic  dying  noises.  They  are  very  young  children,  but  they  know  exactly  how  to  do  this.  After  a  time,  bored  with  dying,  they  begin  a  ritual,  listless  argument.  Did  not.  Did  so.  Did  not.  Did  so.  Bored  with  this,  too,  they  let  it  lapse.  &quot;I  know  all  four  swear  words,&quot;  one  of  them  announces.  There's  a  scent  of  autumn  in  the  air,  something  smoky.  When  night  comes,  pockets  of  mist  fill  the  low  places.  The  mist  is  like  smoke.  The  smoke  is  like  mist.  Dreams  become  almost  visible.  In  Clark's  dream  my  house  is  on  fire.  The  house  has  grown  a  second  story,  and  he  has  to  climb  aladder  to  save  me.  Ev-  erything  is  a  total  loss.  I'm  endlessly  grateful.  Cliff,  the  son  of  Clark,  dreams  that  he  comes  home  from  school  tofind  his  parents'  house  in  ashes.  He  parks  his  bicycle  on  the  sidewalk  and  scuffs  through  the  wreckage  thoughtfully.  It  was  sort  of  a  dumb  house  anyway,  he  thinks.  &quot;A  terrible  tragedy,&quot;  someone  says.  &quot;But  you  know,  I  presume,  that  they  weren't  your  true  parents.&quot;  In  my  dream,  flames  surround  the  fire  station  like  a  crown.  They  hiss  and  snap  and  shudder.But,  asin  a  dream,  nothing  is  consumed.  Burning  and  burning.  I  keep  trying  to  wake  up.  Things  could  goon  this  way  forever. "