 b"READ  these  instructions  careful-  R  ly  before  you  begin.  If  you  do  not  follow  correct  procedures,  your  vote  will  not  count.  First,  make  sure  the  door  to  the  booth  is  fully  closed  and  the  security  bolt  is  in  place.  The  bolt  activates  a  set  of  warning  lights  outside  the  booth  to  guarantee  privacy.  You  should  see  a  neon  glow  through  the  small  pane  of  safety  glass  in  the  upper-right-hand  corner  of  the  door.  Once  you  have  secured  the  booth,  take  a  moment  to  look  around  and  familiarize  yourself  with  its  features.  Every  effort  has  been  made  to  insure  that  your  participation  in  this  election  will  be  a  pleasant  and  comfortable  ex-  perience.  May  we  make  a  suggestion?  Many  voters  find  that  last-minute  delibera-  tions  are  highly  stressful.  Before  start-  ing,  you  might  want  to  head  for  the  basin  at  the  far  end  of  the  counter  and  freshen  up  a  bit.  Towels  and  wash-  cloths  are  in  the  drawers  underneath.  Also,  the  voting  machines  are  ex-  tremely  sensitive  to  contamination  by  dirt  or  small  particulates,  so  it's  very  important  that  your  hands  be  thor-  oughly  clean.  Are  you  in  a  hurry?  Don't  be.  Deci-  sions  made  in  haste  are  soon  regretted.  If  you  are  here  on  your  lunch  hour,  we  have  a  complete  menu  available-ev-  erything  from  light  garden-fresh  sal-  ads  to  hearty  full-course  main  dishes.  (All  the  selections  are  listed  in  Appen-  dix  A  of  this  voters'  pamphlet.)  When  you  are  ready  to  place  your  order,  simply  push  the  &quot;Call&quot;  button  next  to  the  light  switch  on  the  intercom  panel.  When  you  want  to  start  the  voting  procedure,  please  be  seated  at  the  work-  station  and  face  the  video  screen.  Place  your  hands  flat  on  either  side  of  the  keyboard  and  breathe  deeply  for  ten  to  fifteen  seconds.  You  should  feel  relaxed  and  confident.  If  you  are  too  warm,  do  not  hesitate  to  loosen  outer  garments,  or  remove  them  completely.  The  small  fan  above  the  workstation  can  be  acti-  vated  and  adjusted  by  using  the  remote-  control  pedals  located  under  the  desk.  This  system  uses  the  new  LANDSLIDE  software  program,  which  was  devel-  oped  specifically  for  electoral  purposes.  It  is  virtually  foolproof.  However,  if  you  should  make  an  error  or  become  confused  after  you  have  begun  voting,  simply  pick  up  thered  telephone  beside  the  terminal  and  dial  the  toll-free  number  listed  on  the  mouthpiece.  A  technician  will  assist  you  as  soon  as  one  is  available.  While  you  are  waiting,  a  variety  of  audio  recordings  are  avail-  able  for  your  listening  pleasure  on  twelve  separate  channels.  A  guidebook  containing  the  complete  listing  for  each  channel  is  enclosed  in  the  large  manila  envelope  taped  to  the  back  of  your  chair,  along  with  dialling  instructions.  We  have  made  every  effort  to  bring  these  recordings  into  compliance  with  the  latest  statutes  governing  bilingual  voting  materials.  However,  owing  to  technical  limitations,  Lloyd  Bridges'  readings  from  the  abridged  &quot;Moby  Dick&quot;  cannot  be  provided  in  Flemish  or  Indonesian.  If  you  feel  you  need  more  time  to  deliberate  the  issues  and  to  consider  the  candidates  involved  in  this  election,  pull  down  the  small  viewing  screen  mounted  above  the  washbasin.  This   will  activate  a  short  instructional  film,  &quot;Your  Mark  in  History,&quot;  narrated  by  Fess  Parker,  which  demonstrates  the  importance  of  individual  voters  in  American  politics.  Headphones  will  drop  from  an  overhead  rack.  These  are  disposable,  and  should  be  placed  in  the  wastebasket  at  the  conclusion  of  the  film,  or  you  may  keep  them  as  a  souve-  nir  of  your  visit.  When  you  have  finished  voting,  be  sure  to  ask  the  precinct  captain  for  a  rating  card  and  fill  it  out  before  leav-  ing.  We  cannot  improve  service  if  we  don't  hear  from  you.  By  filling  out  the  card,  you  also  automatically  become  eligible  to  win  our  Election  Sweep-  stakes.  Watch  on  Inauguration  Day-  you  may  hear  your  name  announced  on  national  TV  by  the  new  Chief  Exec-  utive!  Now  the  rest  is  up  to  you.  Medical  technicians  and  lifesaving  equipment  are  standing  by  in  caseof  emergency.  If  you  are  ready  to  begin,  press  the  &quot;Start&quot;  button  on  the  keyboard  in  front  of  the  video  screen.  And  thank  you  for  not  smoking. "