 b"THE  question  he  asked  me  didn't  start  with  &quot;Father&quot;  or  anything  like  that-I'm  not  his  father.  It  wasn't  the  words  in  his  question  that  made  me  think  of  the  question  I'd  once  asked  my  father.  The  kid's  a  good  kid.  He's  full  of  good  questions.  And  while  it's  truethat  I  haven't  let  him  call  me  anything,  that  doesn't  stop  us  from  talking.  I  did,  different  times,  consider  all  the  names  he  might  call  me,  like  Father  or  Papa  or  Daddy,  but  none  ever  seemed  right.  I  could  have  let  him  call  me  by  the  name  his  mother  and  others  do,  but  since  I  really  don't  care  for  it,  that  would  miss  the  whole  point.  I  JUST  once,  early  on,  asked  about  the  father,  and  she  said  it  had  been  only  one  night;  then,  smiling  and  pretty,  she  said  it  gets  dark  at  night.  She  said  it  takes  more  time  than  she  took  to  know  how  a  person  really  looks,  so  it  was  a  very  good  thing  that  thekid  looked  like  her.  When  I'm  with  the  kid  and  someone  says  he  must  look  like  his  mother,  I  just  say,  &quot;O.K.&quot;  I  don't  say,  &quot;He's  not  only  her.&quot;  I  don't  say,  &quot;She's  the  one  who  had  him,  and  now,  mostly,  I  have  him.&quot;  I  don't  say,  &quot;She  says  that  even  though  I  don't  let  him  call  me  any-  thing  she  thinks  that  he  likes  me.&quot;  IT\xe2\x80\x99S  a  nice  place,  this  place;  in  the  day,  it  has  very  good  light.  It's  the  same  place  that  it  was  when  she  first  brought  me  here-same  full  cupboards,  same  clean  table.  I  did  paint  the  ceilings,  but  everything  else  is  the  same,  except  for  a  few  things  now  that  are  mine  and  more  stuff  that's  the  kid's.  By  the  way,  I  do  like  him,  and  it's  not  just  because  he's  not  my  own  age.  When  we  go  out  for  a  walk-well,  at  first  he  was  two  in  that  red-and-blue  stroller-I  always  ask  him  about  some-  thing,  because  after  he  answers,  and  it's  always  a  good  answer,  I  like  to  ask  anyway,  &quot;Now,  are  you  sure?&quot;  I  do  it  just  to  see  that  firm  way  he  nods  yes,  and  when  I  nod  back,  that  dreamy  look  he  gets  because  he  likes  being  sure.  BILLY  Brair's  my  own  age.  He  was  my  best  friend  in  grade  six,  but  now  I  don't  see  him  often.  The  last  time  I  did,  I  asked,  &quot;Hey,  Billy  boy,  does  your  mother  still  sing?&quot;  He  said  his  mother  never  sang,  and  that's  a  bad  answer,  so  I  said,  &quot;But  she  did.  When  she  was  folding  the  wash,  she  would  sing.&quot;  And  then,  you  know,  he  said  something,  and  I  didn't  say  back  to  him  how  maybe  I  was  a  drunk  now  but  that  I  was  just  a  plain  pure  boy  in  grade  six  when  his  mother  sang.  Should  I  find  a  good  doctor,  or  go  to  the  meetings,  meet  people?  I'd  rather  -really,  I'd  like  to-go  see  Mrs.  Blair.  She's  not  my  own  age,  so  the  question  would  work  fine,  and  she'd  even  call  me  Jacksie,  my  name  to  peo-  ple  from  then.  What  if  I  was  the  only  boy  who  ever  noticed  her  singing?  What  I  mean  is  not  just  the  only  boy  but  only  man.  Someone  should  tell  her.  She  really  could  sing.  F  course,  I'm  not  going  to  see  Mrs.  Blair.  From  the  Blairs'  house  you  can  see  my  old  house-  diagonally  across  the  street,  on  the  next  block,  the  house  without  trees.  Well,  there  might  be  trees  there  now;  it's  been  twenty  years.  My  father  wouldn't  plant  trees  around  thehouse.  He  said  trees  around  a  house  get  big  by  making  the  house  small.  Did  my  mother  like  trees?  I'm  not  saying  my  father  was  wrong;  I  know  what  he  meant,  and  what  that  meant,  but  it  would  have  been  nice  to  have  trees.  AM  I  thinking  of  my  father  because  of  Billy  Blair's  answer,  or  be-  cause  of  the  kid's  question,  or  because  today's  Sunday?  Just  because  the  sun's  not  up  yet  doesn't  mean  it  isn't  Sunday.  I'm  here  in  the  kitchen,  drinking  black  coffee.  In  4a6170616e,  thereare  now  big  factories  that  operate  all  night  without  lights  robots  don't  need  lights.  These  facto-  ries  of  robotsare  dark  in  the  dark;  all black  in  black.  You  can  hear  these  factories  long  before  you  can  see  them;  you  can  be  almost  next  to  them  and  still  not  see  them;  you  might  have  to  touch  them  tosee  them.  I  DON'T  know  why,  but  on  Sunday  mornings  my  father  never  got  drunk.  It  wasn't  because  the  liquor  store  wasn't  open-he'd  buy  his  week's  supply  on  Saturdays.  And  it  wasn't  because  he  was  religious.  He  used  to  say,  &quot;Don't  tell  anybody,  but  I've  got  some  different  angles  on  the  cross.&quot;  Maybe  that's  part  of  an  old  joke,  I  don't  know.  My  father  also  used  to  say  something  else  like  that,  but  he'd  recite  it  like  poetry:  There's  only  one  God/  God  sees  the  little  sparrow  fall/  There's  only  one  God/  He's  for  spar-  rows.  I  never  went  to  Sunday  school,  be-  cause  my  father,  who  wore  suits  and  ties,  didn't  want  tosee  me  wearing  suits  and  ties.  &amp;  THE  sky,  except  for  a  few  stars,  is  still  dark.  The  moon  has  gone  down  without  waiting  for  the  sun  to  come  up.  I  was  only  thirteen  when  my  mother  died  in  the  spring.  I  still  think  that  spring  is  a  strange  time  for  someone  to  die.  It  was  about  noon  when  the  people  came  back  to  the  house  from  the  funeral.  My  father  came  charging  through  a  crowd  of  them  shouting,  &quot;'Take  off  that  tie!  Go  to  your  room  and  change  out  of  that  suit!&quot;  That  day  wasn't  a  Sunday,  but  it  was  like  a  Sunday.  I  don't  care  what  everyone  thought,  he  hadn't  been  drinking  that  morning;  he  wasn't  drunk,  he  was  wild.  My  father  didn't  last  long-four  and  a  half  years  isn't  long.  I  wore  a  suit  and  tie  at  his  funeral  and  I  thought,  and  people  said,  that  I  looked  pretty  good.  HEY  let  me  stayin  my  house  while  I  finished  grade  twelve.  I  just  wasn't  supposed  to  be  alone,  al-  though  it  turned  out  that  a  lot  of  the  time  I  was.  When  anyone  was  staying  in  the  house  with  me,  I  would  sleep  in  my  room,  but  when  nobody  was  I'd  move  out  into  the  den  and  sleep  on  the  rug  between  lots  of  blankets.  A  housekeeper  would  come  in  from  ten  until  two  five  daysa  week,  so  I'd  come  home  for  lunch  and  when  I'd  " b"finished  eating  she'd  pour  herself  and  me  fresh  coffee.  I'd  never  liked  coffee  before.  Because  she  hadn't  known  my  parents,  we  talked  about  just  anything  while  she  mostly  kept  moving  around  the  kitchen.  When  the  housekeeper  did  sit,  it  was  in  my  mother's  chair.  The  housekeeper  didn't  know  whose  chair  it  had  been,  and  I  didn't  mention  it.  I  was  O.K.  for  money  andhad  ac-  counts  at  some  places.  When  I  had  to  go  to  adoctor  or  dentist  or  something,  I'd  take  a  taxi.  The  first  snowy  day  that  winter,  I  gota  driver  who  had  just  moved  from  4368696e61  and  had  never  seen  snow  before.  I  remember  now  that  he  kept  saying,  &quot;So  white.  So  beautiful,&quot;  over  and  over.  Although  he  didn't  speak  English  very  well,  he  had  a  way  of  making  the  word  &quot;white&quot;  sound  white  and  the  word  &quot;beautiful&quot;  sound  beautiful.  On  Saturdays,  the  housekeeper  would  come  for  just  two  hours  in  the  morning,  so  weekends  were  pretty  quiet.  Sundays  were  really  quiet,  After  the  house  was  sold  for  me,  I  never  went  back  there.  I\xe2\x80\x99D  been  thinking  again  lately  if  I  should  let  thekid  call  me  some-  thing.  If  it  doesn't  work  out  between  his  motherand  me,  and  Ileave,  he  should  be  able  to  call  me  by  a  name  if  he  sees  me  somewhere.  I'd  have  no  reason  not  to  let  him,  and,  who  knows,  sometime  he  might  want  to  introduce  me  to  someone.  If  he  called  me  by  the  name  I'm  called  now,  I  still  wouldn't  like  it,  and  especially  not  from  him,  because  the  name  was  my  father's,  so  I'd  been  thinking  why  not  Jacksie  or  Jacks.  Until  yesterday,  I'd  pretty  much  settled  on  Jacks,  which  was  what  people  called  me  when  I  lived  alone  in  thehouse.  If  I  let  him  just  once  call  me  some-  thing,  I  was  thinking,  then  it  would  be  up  to  him-he's  almost  seven-  whether  or  not  to  call  me  that  from  then  on.  But  then  I  thought  should  I  let  him  start  calling  me  something  right  away  or  wait  to  see  how  things  work  out  with  his  mother  and  me?  IT  might  not  seem  easy  to  breathe  any  love  into  a  name  like  Father.  It's  a  stiff  word-it's  not  soft,  like,  say,  Papa-but  sometimes  you  have  to  breathe  love  into  names  you  don't  choose.  Yesterday,  Saturday,  in  the  after-  noon,  thekid  had  a  question  he  came  in  the  house  to  ask  me,  and  the  question  didn't  start  with  &quot;Father&quot;  or  anything  like  that-he  knows  I'm  not  his  father  -and  there  was  nothing  like  &quot;must&quot;  inhis  question.     As  the  sun  comes  up,  this  kitchen  will  get  brighter;  the  ceiling,  the  table,  the  cupboards  are  white.  The  kid's  question  was  just  one  about  a  picture  on  the  box  the  Wiffle  ball  came  in,  which  shows  the  curve  and  the  slider,  but  because  he  was  looking  lower  than  my  eyes,  at  the  bottle  I'd  just  opened,  it  made  me  think  of  the  question  I'd  once  asked  my  fa-  ther,  who  I  called  Father.  It's  only  now  that  I'm  thinking  that  my  father  might  have  heard  my  ques-  tion  before,  not  from  being  asked  but  by  asking,  and  the  answer  he  might  have  been  given  could  have  been  the  same  one  he,  a  glass  at  his  lips,  gave  me.  When  thekid  asked  me  his  question  yesterday  about  the  curve  and  the  slider,  what  he  wanted  was  for  me  to  come  outside  and  catch  the  ball  for  him,  and  throw  it  to  him.  He  wanted  to  watch  his  own  throw  and  see  mine,  and  then  talk  it  over,  so  he  could  be  sure.  So  I  went  outside  with  him  and  the  Wiffle  ball,  but  first  I  used  the  same  answer  I'd  been  given  to  a  different  question.  Now  the  kid  can  call  me  that  or  not  that,  whatever  he  likes;  he  doesn't  have  to  worry.  And  I  know  that  he  heard  me-he  looked  up  at  my  eyes  when  I  said,  &quot;Father  must.&quot;"