 b"(JIM  AND  MIMI  ARBUTHNOT  REPLICATE  THE  GREAT  PYRAMID  OF  CHEOPS  ON  THE  ARKANSAS  RIVIERA)  LIGHT  is  the  cheapest  commodity  in  the  physical  world.&quot;  Jim  Arbuthnot  speaking,  from  somewhere  nearby  in  the  Stygian  gloom.  &quot;And  air  is  so  boring.  Every-  body  has  it.&quot;  That's  wife  Mimi,  who  lends  style  even  to  the  act  of  gasping  for  breath.  Mix  these  rock-hard  Ar-  buthnot  precepts,  Jim's  lifelong  fasci-  nation  with  the  scene  on  the  Camel  cigarette  pack,  and  a  1981  stopover  in  [REDACTED]  en  route  home  from  helping  Mimi's  dad  to  sell  [REDACTED],  and  hey,  presto-the  most  intriguing  weekend  retreat  ever  to  rise,  twenty-ton  lime-  stone  block  by  twenty-ton  limestone  block,  on  the  west  bank  of  the  Missis-  sippi.  &quot;What  it's  all  about  is  authenticity.  We  even  had  to  import  the  scarabs.&quot;  Mimi  wields  a  six-foot  pitch  torch  while  flicking  an  errant  bat  out  of  her  coiffure  as  naturally  as  if  she'd  been  doing  it  all  her  life,  not  just  the  few  brief  weekends  she  and  Jim  have  been  able  to  steal  away  from  their  beloved  tree-house  aerie  in  the  Norwegian  fir  forests-itself  a  retreat  from  Tammy,  the  Arbuthnot  aircraft  carrier-cum-  houseboat  currently  moored  (&quot;I  think,&quot;  Mimi  uncharacteristically  vac-  illates)  in  the  Bay  of  Naples,  in  turn  a  necessary  change  of  space  and  pace  from  the  working  oryx  ranch  and  fam-  ily  seat,  Marzipan,  just  up  the  road  near  Pine  Bluff.  We  thread  our  way  along  zigzag-  ging  corridors  single  file.  Jim  and  Mimi  had  laid  down  one  dictate  only  in  the  design  stage:  that  the  edifice  they  joshingly  dubbed  &quot;Cheopstyx&quot;  contain  more  rooms  than  could  be  counted  in  a  day.  So  Mimi's  pride  in  almost  imme-  diately  stumbling  upon  the  dining  room  is  palpable.  &quot;There  were  no  kitchens  in  Cheops'  pyramid,&quot;  Jim  notes,  wearing  his  erudition  as  lightly  as  his  cologne.  &quot;So  we  order  out  Chi-  nese  a  lot,&quot;  Mimi  adds,  weaving  deftly  into  the  conversational  skein.  &quot;We'll  pretend  Confucius  has  come  to  supper  with  the  Pharaoh,  and  we'll  try  to  chat  about  what  they'd  have  chatted  about,&quot;  interjects  Jim,  shark-bomber  man  of  action  gone  suddenly  all  reflective.  &quot;Because,&quot;  says  Mimi,  wedging  in her  trademark  last  word,  &quot;this  place  gets  one  in  its  grip.  It  isn't  about  the  quotidian,  it's  about  important  people,  immortal  people,  people  with  a  great  deal  on  their  minds.&quot;  &quot;People,&quot;  grace-  notes  Jim  here  in  the  perfectly  re-  created  hush  of  aeons,  &quot;who  lived  a  long  time  ago.&quot;  Now  it's  Jim  leading  the  way  through  the  higgledy-piggledy  corri-  dors.  [REDACTED]-football-nut  Jim  col-  laborating  with  historic-accuracy-nut  Jim  to  emblazon  &quot;Go  Razorbacks!&quot;  five  feet  high  in  authentic  4567797074ian  hieroglyphs  on  the  walls.  Jim  the  globe-girdling  collector  of  Fourth  Dy-  nasty  funerary  bric-a-brac  stashing  it  all  here  in  the  Sacred  Antechamber,  where  Jim  the  insatiable  media  freak  likes  to  curl  up  apr\xc3\xa9s-supper  to  catch  old  episodes  of  &quot;Taxi&quot;  or  &quot;Barney  Miller&quot;  on  TV.  &quot;Actually,&quot;  Jim  muses,  coiling  his  lanky  frame  into  a  gold-leafed  chair  meant  for  a  Ptolemaic  princeling,  &quot;I'm  studying  the  similarities  between  to-  day's  TV  and  ancient  4567797074ian  reli-  gion.  It's  fascinating:  they  believed  you  never  really  die,  your  soul  just  kind  of  goes  into  syndication.  So  they  invented  the  principle  of  the  rerun  a  good  four  thousand  years  before  Viacom.  Fas-  cinating.&quot;  Pale  TV  light  flickers  over  mummified  cats  and  model  funeral  boats  and  sarcophagi  in  the  fetid  dark.  And  Jim  Arbuthnot,  men's  medal-play  golf  champion  of  [REDACTED],  involun-  tarily  shivers.  &quot;And  here's  where  I  do  all  my  telephoning.&quot;  Mimi  presses  on  a  sec-  tion  of  corridor  wall  and-m\xc3\xa9rabile  dictu-a  secret  door  gives  way  to  reveal  dozens  of  tiny  ruby  lights  winking  in  the  cozy  crypt  within.  Mistress  of  the  serendipitous,  Mimi  miraculous-  ly  recovered  the  switchboard  from  the  late  King  Farouk's  [REDACTED]  palace  at     35  an  auction  in  Maracaibo  last  spring.  &quot;I'm  not  a  gabber,&quot;  Mimi  insists.  &quot;I  only  talk,  never  listen.  'Only  talk,  nev-  er  listen.&quot;  Coco  Chanel  said  that  to  me,  I  think.  I've  never  forgotten  it,  even  though,  strictly  speaking,  I  shouldn't  have  been  listening.  Do  you  follow?  You  know  what  they  say  about  what  you  don't  know  not  hurting  you.  And  there  is  so  much  hurt  in  the  world.&quot;  But  if  she  is  mistress  of  serendipity,  Mimi  Arbuthnot  also  reigns  as  empress  of  the  eclectic  when  it  comes  to  assem-  bling  a  home.  We  are  in  the  suite  of  rooms  corresponding  to  the  tomb  of  Cheops  deep  inside  Cheopstyx.  Here  a  grandfather  clock,  there  a  row  of  deck  chairs  from  the  old  Cunarder  R.M.S.  Berengaria;  there  a  Rauschenberg,  here  a  Pawnee  Indian  wickiup.  Art  Deco  cheek  byjowlwith  Second  Em-  pire,  Mogul  intermixed  with  Ming.  Bowls  of  money,  bowls  of  flowers,  bowls  of  antique  bowling  pins.  And  it  all  madly,  gladly,  preternaturally  works.  As,  for  Jim  and  Mimi  Arbuthnot,  Cheopstyx  both  as  idea  and  as  weekend  retreat  plainly  works.  &quot;I'd  never  use  slave  labor  again.&quot;  Jim  half  smiles,  half  grimaces,  as  if  recounting  a  partic-  ularly  gruelling  round  of  his  beloved  deep-sea  water  polo.  &quot;And  it  has  cost  us  a  couple  of  very  dear  friends,&quot;  Mimi  recalls.  &quot;'They  came  to  weekend,  must  have  taken  a  wrong  turn  down  around  the  southeast  corridor.  We  never  saw  them  alive  again.  But  ...&quot;  But  such  rue  is  ultimately  uncon-  vincing;  Jim  and  Mimi  know  they  have  it  made  in  the  shade  here  in  their  six  hundred  million  square  royal  cubits  of  hideaway;  know  that  that  magical  click  when  special  people  make  them-  selves  a  special  place  has  clicked  for  them.  Will,  for  them,  always  and  ever  and  ever  click.  One  takes  one's  leave  down  the  long,  palm-lined  avenue  and  boards  Tammy  Too,  the  motorized  funeral  barge  waiting  to  convey  one  back  to  the  dreary  quotidian.  And  one  finds  oneself  conjuring  a  last  irrepres-  sible  image.  It  is  of  the  afterlife,  and  a  mellow  [REDACTED]  summer  evening,  and  a  din-  ner  party  at  Cheopstyx.  There  is  Che-  ops,  and  there  is  Confucius,  and  there  in  thecenter  of  everything  are  Jim  and  Mimi  Arbuthnot,  passing  around  the  takeout  Chinese,  and  chatting  the  chat  of  the  ages.  "