 b"FROM  the  men's  room  down  the  hall  came  the  roar  of  a  flushed  urinal,  followed  immediately  by  &quot;I'm  a  Yankee  Doodle  Dandy&quot;  whis-  tled  with  infectious  cheerfulness  and  a  lot  of  rococo  tricks-most  notably  the  difficult  yodel  trill,  used  here  on  the  &quot;ee&quot;  of  &quot;dandy,&quot;  in  which  the  whistler  gets  his  lips  to  flip  the  sound  binarily  between  the  base  tone  and  a  higher  pitch  that  is  I  think  somewhere  between  a  major  third  and  a  perfect  fourth  above  it  (why  it  is  not  a  true  harmonic  but  rather  perceptibly  out  of  tune  has  puzzled  me  often-some-  thing  to  do  with  the  physics  of  pursed  lips,  perhaps)  a  display  of  virtuos-  ity  forgivable  only  in  the  men's  room,  and  not,  as  some  of  the  salesmen  seemed  to  think,  in  the  relative  silence  of  working  areas,  where  people  froze,  hate  welling  from  suspended  Razor  Point  pens,  as  the  whistler  passed.  Tunes  sometimes  lived  all  day  in  the  men'sroom,  sustained  by  successive  users,  or  remembered  by  a  previous  user  as  soon  as  he  reentered  this  tiled  ROOM  and  marble  orpheum.  Once,  cheerful  before  my  lunch  break,  I  loudly  whistled  the  opening  of  the  song  that  starts  out  &quot;All  I  want  is  a  room  some-  where,&quot;  and  then  stopped,  embarrassed,  because  I  realized  that  I  had  unknow-  ingly  interrupted  someone  else's  quieter  and  more  masterly  whistling  of  a  soft-rock  standard  with  my  toneless,  aerated  tweets;  later  that  day,  though,  I  heard  a  stylishly  embellished  version  of  my  tune  whistled  at  the  copying  machine  by  someone  who  must  have  been  in  one  of  the  stalls  during  my  ear-  lier  visit.  This  time,  I  leaned  quite  hard  into  the  men's  room  door  to  open  it,  star-  tling  the  Doodle  Dandy  man,  who  was  on  his  way  out,  and  who  turned  out  to  be  Alan  Pilna,  from  International  Ser-  vice  Marketing.  His  face,  when  the  opening  door  revealed  it,  was  not  formed  in  the  fruity  whistler's  pout  but  had  a  momentary  flinch  of  surprise  on  it.  He  said,  &quot;Oop!&quot;  I  said,  &quot;Oop!&quot;  and  then,  as  he  stood     aside,  holding  the  door  for  me  to  enter,  &quot;Thanks,  Alan.&quot;  I  negotiated  the  quick  right  and  left  that  brought  me  into  the  brightness  and  warmth  of  the  room.  It  is  deco-  rated  in  two  tones  of  tile,  hybrid  colors  I  don't  know  the  names  for,  and  the  sinks'  counter  and  the  dividers  between  urinals  and  between  stalls  are  of  the  same  marble  as  covers  the  lobby  of  the  building.  I  checked  in  the  mirror  to  be  sure  that  while  I  had  been  chatting  with  my  office-mate  Tina  I  had  not  had  some  humiliating  nose  problem  or  newsprint  smudge  on  my  face-she  would  probably  have  told  me  about  the  smudge,  but  not  about  the  nose.  A  couple  of  sinks  over  from  me,  a  vice-  president  named  Les  Guster  was  brushing  his  teeth.  He  was  staring  straight  at  the  mirror  and  was  very  probably  seeing  there  the  same  expres-  sion,  the  same  quick  bulgings  in  his  cheek,  that  he  had  seen  while  brushing  his  teeth  since  he  was  eight  years  old.  He  blinked  frequently,  each  blink  slightly  more  deliberate  than  a  blink  he  would  have  performed  while  reading  or  talking  on  the  phone,  possibly  be-  cause  the  large  motor  movements  of  toothbrushing  interfered  with  the  au-  tonomic  rhythms  of  blinking.  As  soon  asI  took  my  place  at  a  sink,  Les  bowed  close  to  Ais  sink,  holding  his  tie  with  his  free  hand  against  his  stomach,  even  though  he  was  clearly  not  ready  to  rinse  or  spit  yet,  in  order  to  shield  something-his  sense  of  privacy,  most  probably-against  my  presence  in  the  mirror.  We  were  not  obliged  to  greet  each  other.  The  noise  of  the  water  from  his  tap,  and  Alan  Pilna's  wind-  ing-down  urinal-flush,  defined  us  as  existing  in  separate  realms.  I  am  im-  pressed  by  people  like  Les  who  have  the  bravery  to  brush  their  teeth  (before  lunch,  even!)  at  work,  since  the  act  is  so  powerfully  unbusinesslike.  To  indi-  cate  to  him  now  that  I  didn't  think  that  his  toothbrushing  was  in  any  way  no-  table  or  comic,  and  that  in  fact  I  was  unaware  of  his  presence,  I  leaned  into  the  mirror,  pretending  to  studya  defect  on  my  face,  and  then  I  cleared  my  throat  so  unpleasantly  that  there  could  be  no  doubt  that  I  was  oblivious  of  him.  This  established,  I  straightened  up   " b"again,  shifted  my  gaze  in  the  mirror,  and  regarded,  behind  me  and  around  me,  the  hydraulic  splendors  of  the  men's  room.  Is  there  any  other  spotina  modern  office  where  a  comparable  level  of  me-  chanical  ingenuity  is  so  concentrated  and  on  display?  Telephone  PBX  sys-  tems,  computers,  and  typewriters  are  electronically  sophisticated  and  there-  fore  fundamentally  uninteresting.  The  Pitney  Bowes  licker  and  stamper  and  the  automatic  paper-feed  mechanism  in  the  high-speed  copierare  some-  what  more  interesting,  because  they  are  combinations  of  electronic  and  me-  chanical  invention-but  except  for  date  stampers  and  the  bearings  in  ballpoint  pens  and  in  desk  drawers,  which  exist  in  isolation,  where  but  in  the  corporate  bathroom  do  we  witness  mechanical  engineering  in  such  a  pure  form?  Here  are  valves  that  allow  a  certain  amount  of  water  and  no  more  to  rush  into  a  toilet;  and  shapes  of  porce-  lain  designed  so  that  the  turbulence  in  them  forms  almost  fixed  and  deco-  rative  (yet  highly  functional)  braids  and  twists;  and  a  little  built-in  ma-  chine  that  squirts  pink  liquefied  soap  (with  a  special  additivethat  gives  it  a  silvery  sheen,  also  used  in  shampoo  recipes  now,  I've  noticed)  into  the  curve  of  your  fingers;  and  the  soap-  level  indicator-a  plastic  fish-eye  di-  rectly  into  the  soap  tank,  which  tells  the  maintenance  man  (either  Ray  or  the  other  one,  whose  name  I've  never  been  quite  sure  of)  whether  he  must  unlock  the  brushed-steel  panel  that  day  and  replenishthe  supply;  and  the  beautiful  chrome-plated  urinal  plumb-  ing,  here  presented  ina  row  of  four  identical  side-by-side  states  of  severe  gnarledness,  which  give  you  the  im-  pression  of  walking  into  a  petrochemi-  cal  plant,  and  inscribed  with  names  like  &quot;Sloan  Valve&quot;  and  &quot;Delany  Flushboy&quot;&quot;  on  their  six-sided  half-  decorative  boltlike  caps,  names  that  become  completely  familiar  over  the  course  of  your  employment  even  though  if  asked  you  couldn't  come  up  with  them,  Here  also,  in  the  midst  of  the  office's  dry,  carpeted  arrangement  of  in-boxes,  framed  art-gallery  posters,  and  horizontal  filing  cabinets,  you  con-  front  a  very  industrial-looking  storm  drain,  set  right  in  the  floor.  And  consider  the  architectural  mazelet  you  must  walk  in  order  to  arrive  in  the  bathroom  proper  after  going  in  the  door-an  enormous  improvement  over  the  old  double-door  system-intended  to  keep  passing  eyes  from  seeing  in.  It  works,  too,  no  matter  how  close  to  the  hallway  wall  you  walk.  I  know  because  I  have  sometimes  tried  in  passing  to  glance  into  the  women's  corporate  bathroom  when  by  chante  someone  was  opening  the  door,  wanting  to  glimpse  the  row  ofsinks  and  the  women  leaning  over  them  toward  the  mirror  to  adjust  their  shoulder  pads  or  put  on  lip  gloss,  wanting  to  see  a  woman  drawing  her  lower  lip  tight  over  her  lower  teeth  a  la  William  F.  Buckley,  Jr.,  and  then,  holding  the  screwed-out  stick  of  gloss  motionless,  slide  the  lip  from  sidetoside  under  it  and  press  her  mouth  together  and  then  moue  it  outward,  because  the  sight  of  this  ina  corporate  setting  would  give  an  exotic  overlay  to  memories  of  my  beloved  darling  getting  ready  for  par-  SS  ties-the  arousing  skin-smell  of  her  recent  shower,  the  knowledge  that  she  was  putting  on  makeup  to  be  attractive  to  other  people,  the  sight  of  the  holy  expression  that  women  have  only  for  themselves  in  mirrors:  slightly  raised  eyebrows,  opened  throat,  very  slightly  flared  nostrils.  This  suggestion  of  domesticity,  come  to  think  of  it,  contributes  a  characteristic  tone  to  the  inventions  found  in  the  corporate  bathroom.  These  inventions  are  grander,  more  heroic  variants  of  mechanisms  central  to  our  life  away  from  work-the  sink,  soap  dish,  mirror,  and  toilet  of  home  bathrooms.  The  toilet-paper  roll  and  supporting  spindle,  in  con-  trast  with  their  plainer  home  config-  uration,  here  are  housed  in  a  locked  device  that  pays  out  the  frames  of  paper  with  a  certain  amount  of  resistance,  so  that  you  have  to  pull  slowly  and  carefully  in  order  to  keep  the  paper  " b"  from  tearing  on  one  of  the  perfora-  tions,&quot;  discouraging  waste;  further-  more,  when  one  roll  is  spent,  a  second  drops  into  place.  I  am  willing  to  have  my  wastefulness  discouraged-to  some  2Perforation!  Shout  it  out!  The  deliberate  punctuated  weakening  of  paper  and  cardboard  so  that  it  will  tear  along  an  intended  path,  leaving  a  row  of  fine-haired  white  pills  or  tuftlets  on  each  new  edge!  It  is  a  stagger-  ing  conception,  showing  an  age-transforming  feel  for  the  unique  properties  of  pulped-wood  fibre.  Yet  do  we  have  national  holidays  to  celebrate  its  development?  Are  festschrift  volumes  published  honoring  the  dead  greats  in  the  field?  People  watch  the  news  every  night  like  robots,  thinking  they  are  learning  about  their  lives,  never  paying  attention  to  the  far  more  immediate  developments  that  arrive  unreported,  on  the  pull-tab  perforated  top  of  the  ice-cream  carton,  in  reply  coupons  bound  in  magazines  and  on  the  &quot;Please  return  this  por-  tion&quot;  edging  of  bill  stubs,  on  sheets  of  postage  stamps  and  sheets  of  Publishers  Clearing  House  magazine  stamps,  on  paper  towels,  in  rolls  of  plastic  bags  for  produce  atthe  supermarket,  in  strips  of  hanging-file-  folder  labels.  The  lines  dividing  oneyear  from  another  in  your  past  are  perforated,  and  the  mental  sensation  of  detaching  a  period  of  your  life  for  closer  scrutiny  resem-  bles  thereluctant  guided  tearing  of  a  perforated  seam.  In  school  we  are  taught  about  the  Indians  of  New  York  State,  about  the  making  of  the  Erie  Canal,  about  Har-  riet  Tubman  and  Samuel  Morse  and  George  Washing-  ton  Carver  and  Susan  B.  Anthony,  but  never  a  word  about  perforation.  How  is  that  simple  perforate  dotting  of  the  reply  coupon  or  the  roll  of  toilet  paper  accom-  plished?  By  circular  pizza  cutters  with  diamond-tipped  radii?  By  zirconium  templates,  fatally  sharp  to  the  touch,  stamping  the  paper  with  their  barbed  braillery?  And  why  isn't  the  pioneer  of  perforation  chiselled  into  the  facades  of  libraries,  along  with  Locke,  Franklin,  and  the  standard  gang  of  French  encyclopedists?  They  would  have  loved  him.  They  would  have  devoted  wholepages  of  beautiful  illustrations,  with  fig.  Is  and  fig.  2sdetail-  ingthe  tectonics  of  schizogony  degree.  Before  that  invention,  I  some-  times  felt  a  qualm  when  I  was  able  to  make  the  roll  trundle  momen-  tumously  around  the  spindle,  reeling  off  a  great  drape  of  unnecessary  paper;  although  when  you  have  a  cold  and  you  do  want  a  mass  of  absorbency  to  hold  to  your  face  when  you  blow  your  nose,  the  care  you  now  must  take  tug-  ging  at  the  nearly  tearing  paper  can  be  irksome.  At  this  point  in  my  musings,  Don  Vanci  (from  Domestic  Service  Market-  ing),  completing  his  visit  to  the  urinal,  turned  and  unexpectedly  caught  my  eye,  and  we  greeted  each  other  in  the  mirror.  (CDon\xe2\x80\x98)\xe2\x80\x99  &quot;Howie.&quot;  Les  Guster  was  on  his  way  out,  his  toothbrush  stowed  in  a  ribbed-plastic  travel  container.  He  nodded  at  us.  &quot;Gentlemen.&quot;  Don  Vanci  followed  Les  Guster  out  without  washing  his  hands.  R  the  moment,  I  had  the  men's  room  to  myself.  I  set  down  my  lunch-break  paperback  and  rested  my glasses  on  it;  then  I  washed  my  hands  briefly,  making  the  date  I  had  idly  stamped  on  my  palm  while  chatting  with  Tina  fade  but  not  disappear.  Without  turning  off  the  water,  I  used  a  paper  towel  to  dry  my  hands.  We  have  the  finest  style  of  paper-towel  dispenser  available,  I  think:  a  six-  or  seven-foot  high  architectural  element,  fashioned  from  a  band  of  brushed  steel  laid  almost  flush  with  thewall,  in  which  is  re-  cessed  a  diamond-shaped  opening  that  offers  you  the  next  paper  towel  and,  just  below  that,  a  waste  region  where  you  can  throw  the  towel  away.  The  maintenance  man  unlocks  the  front  panel  of  this  unit-perhaps  using  the  very  same  key  that  opens  the  soap  dis-  penser,  or  perhaps  not-empties  the  trash  bag  full  of  used  paper  towels,  and  loads  hundreds  of  just-unbound  and  slowly  expanding  new  towels  into  a  packedqueue  above  the  diamond  cut-  out.  The  paper  towels  themselves  are  the  best  kind:  nearly  a  foot  wide,  way-  ily  embossed,  white,  folded  with  two  flaps  for  easy  removal-it's  an  honor  to  use  them.  Since  the  cost  of  paper  has  gone  up  so  much  in  the  last  decade,  some  companies  that  used  to  stock  these  wide  towels  have  installed  an  adapter  in  the  dispenser  which  allows  it  to  handle  smaller,  cheaper  ones.  Else-  where,  facilities  managers  have  turned  even  more  radical,  installing,  right  next  to  the  ghost  town  of  the  brushed-  steel  dispenser,  a  plastic  Towlsaver  with  a  little  slot-machine  lever  that  you  have  to  pull  four  times,  each  time  advancing  an  invisible  internal  roll,  before  you  get  an  acceptable,  crum-  plable  length  of  brown  rough  paper,  which  you  tear  off  against  a  set  of  metal  teeth.  Another  version  of  this  replacement  machine  has  a  rotating  crank  with  a  calculatedly  low  gear  ratio:  the  hope  is  that  you  will  tire  of  cranking,  and  use  less  paper.  At  the  very  bottom  of  the  range  is  the  &quot;hazards  of  disease&quot;  machine-the  hot-air  blower.  You  find  it  now  not  only  in  freeway  rest  stops  but  in  the  rest  rooms  of  Friendlys,  Wendy's,  Howard  Johnsons,  and  Papa  Gino's.  What  the  well-meaning  but  deluded  managers  responsible  for  overseeing  bathroom  cost  control  in  these  chains  seem  to  have  done,  hypnotized  by  the  sales  rap  of  the  hot-air-blower  company,  is  to  rip  out  their  paper-towel  dispensers,  bolt  the  hot-air  blowers  on  the  walls,  " b"and  then  remove  the  wastebaskets.  Towels  were  what  filled  the  wastebas-  kets;  the  restaurants  no  longer  pro-  vided  towels,  therefore  they  no  longer  needed  to  pay  somebody  to  empty  the  wastebaskets.  But  in  removing  those  wastebaskets  they  also  removed  the  only  unpostponable  reason  for  some  employee  to  check  out  the  bathroom  at  least  oncea  shift,  and  the  place  quickly  became  a  wasteland.  Is  anyone  truly  content  to  be  using  the  hot-air  blower?  You  hit  the  mush-  room  of  metal  which  turns  it  on  and  then,  as  the  instructions  recommend,  Rub  Hands  Gently  under  the  warm  blast.  But  to  dry  your  hands  as  thor-  oughly  as  a  single  papertowel  would  dry  them  in  four  seconds,  you  must  now  supplicate  under  the  droning  fun-  nel  for  a  full  thirty  seconds,  much  longer  than  anyone  has  patience  for.  Inevitably  you  give  upand  exit,  flick-  ing  water  from  your  fingers,  while  the  blower  continues  to  heat  the  room.  If  you  do  decide  to  stay  for  the  full  count,  the  manufacturer  (World  Dryer  Cor-  poration)  has  provided  a  short  text  to  help  pass  the  time.  I  disapprove  of  this  text  now,  but  when  I  was  younger  it  bespoke  the  awesome  oracular  power  of  prophets  whose  courage  and  con-  fidence  allowed  them  to  scrap  the  old  ways  and  start  fresh-urban-renewal  architects;  engineers  of  traffic  flow;  clear-eyed  foretellers  of  monorails,  paper  cloth-  ing,  food  in  capsule  form,  programmed  learning,  and  domes  over  [REDACTED]  Kong  and  [REDACTED].  I  used  to  read  it  to  myself  as  if  reciting  a  quatrain  from  the  &quot;Rubdiyat,&quot;  and  I  have  read  it  so  many  times  that  it  now  holds  for  me  some  of  the  Ur-resonances  of  Crest's  &quot;conscien-  tiously  applied  pro-  gram  of  oral  hygiene  and  regular  profes-  sional  care.&quot;  It  says:  To  serve  you  better  ...  We  have  installed  Pollution-Free  Electric  Hand  Dryers  to  protect  youfrom  the  hazards  of  disease  which  can  be  transmitted  by  cloth  towels  or  paper  towel  lit-  ter.  This  clean,  quick,  sanitary  method  dries  hands  more  thoroughly  ...  prevents  chapping  ...  and  keeps  washrooms  free  of  towel  WASTE  In  the  lower-right  corner  of  this  state-  ment,  World  has  printed  the  small  Greek  letter  that  looks  like  a  ham-  burger  in  profile,  the  symbol  of  the  environmental  movement.  But  does  the  environmental  movement  have  any-  thing  at  all  to  dowith  the  reason  that  the  particular  Wendy's  restaurant  that  I  stood  in  on  September  30,  1987  (copying  the  legend  out,  while  I  count-  ed  chimpanzees  to  be  sure  thatthe  warm  air  really  did  blow  for  thirty  seconds,  as  I  had  estimated),  had  in-  stalled  this  machine  in  its  men's  room!?  No,  I  say.  Is  the  blower,  in  fact,  an  efficient,  environmentally  upright  user  of  elec-  tricity  produced  by  burning  fossil  fuels?  No:  there  is  no  &quot;off&quot;  button  that  would  allow  you  to  curtail  the  aforesaid  thirty-second  dry  time;  you  are  forced  to  participate  in  waste.  Does  it  prevent  chapping?  Dry  air?  Is  it  quick  It  is  slow.  Is  it  more  thorough?  It  is  less  thorough.  Does  it  protect  us  from  the  hazards  of  disease?  You  will  catch  a  cold  quicker  from  the  warm  microbe,  nutrifying  public  metal  dome  you  press  to  start  the  blower  than  from  plucking  a  sterile  piece  of  paper  that  no  human  has  ever  held  from  a  towel  dispenser, clasping  it  in  your  very  own  hands  to  dry  them,  and  throwing  it  away.  Come  to  your  senses,  World  Dryer  Corpora-  tion!  The  tone  of  authority  and  public-  spiritedness  that  surrounds  these  false-  hoods  is  outrageous!  How  can  you  let  your  marketing  men  continue  to  make  claims  that  sound  like  the  eighteen-  nineties  ads  for  patent  medicines  or  electroactive  copper  wrist  bracelets  which  are  printed  on  the  Formica  on  the  tables  at  Wendy's?  You  are  selling  a  hot-air  machine  that  works  well  and  lasts  for  decades:  a  simple,  possibly  justifiable  means  for  thefast-food  chains  to  save  money  on  paper  prod-  ucts.  Say  that  or  say  nothing.  Far  more  important  than  printed  hype,  however,  is  the  fact  that  in  trad-  ing  paper  towels  for  this  blower  the  food  chains  and  other  corporate  bath,  room  proprietors,  aided  by  World's  rhetoric,  are  assuming  that  the  only  thing  you  dowith  paper  towels  is  to  dry  your  hands.  Not  so,  not  so!  You  need  paper  towels  to  dab  at  a  spot  of  food  on  your  sleeve;  you  need  them  to  polish  your  glasses  dry;  you  need  them  to  wash  your  face.  When  you  are  sweaty  on  a  hot  day  in  a  room  made  hotter  by  the  hot-air  dryer  andyou  decide  you  want  to  wash  your  face  before  you  order  your  Big  Classic,  what  can  you  do?  Out  of  desperation,  you  resort  to  toilet  paper.  So  much  toilet  paper  is     " b"being  used  in  bathrooms  with  hot-air  blowers  that  some  of  the  same  facilities  managers  who  thought  they  were  cost-  cuttingly  craftyin  moving  to  blowers  have  been  forced  to  go  to  the  opposite  extreme  in  the  area  of  toilet-paper  dispensers,  installing  gigantic,  side-  mounted,  hundred-thousand-sheet  rolls  the  size  of  automobile  tires  in  each  stall.  But  toilet  paper  in  any  quantity  is  a  poor  towel  substitute.  Forehandedly,  you  step  into  a  vacant  stall  and  pull  yourself  a  sizable  handful  of  paper  and,  returning  to  the  sink,  expose  it  to  wa-  ter.  It  quickly  wilts  to  a  semi-transpar-  ent  pur\xc3\xa9e  in  your  fingers.  You  apply  the  dripping  plasma  to  your  face,  with  discouraging  results;  in  the  mirror  you  observe  that  flecks  now  adhere  to  your  cheeks  and  brow.  You  return  to  the  stall  (pushing  the  door  open  with  an  elbow)  to  assemble  another  big  wad  for  drying  off  -but  now  your  hands  are  wet,  so  that  when  you  try  to  pull  more  yards  of  toilet  paper  from  the  hundred-  thousand-sheet  roll  the  forward  square  dissolves  on  contact  and  prematurely  tears  itself  free.  Deciding  to  let  your  face  air-dry,  you  look  around  for  a  place  to  throw  away  the  initial  macer-  ated  flapjack  and  discover  that  the  wastebasket  is  gone.  So  you  drop  the  thing  in  the  corner,  to  join  other  mis-  cellaneous  trash  there,  or  flip  it  venge-  fully  into  the  already  impaired  toilet.  All  this  is  why  I  considered  it  such  an  honor  to  be  working  at  a  place  that  still  featured  the  classic  corporate  paper-towel  dispenser.  But  sometimes  when  I  pulled  several  paper  towels  from  it,  as  when  at  other  times  in  my  employment  there  I  opened  a  gray  steel  supply  cabinet  stocked  with  black-han-  dled  scissors,  page-a-day  calendar  re-  fills,  magnetized  paper-clip  dispensers,  staplers,  cobralike  staple  removers,  and  box  after  box  of  Razor  Point  pens,  or  when  I  gota  memo  with  a  distribution  cover  sheet  that  had  forty  or  fifty  names  on  it,  I  would  suddenly  doubt  that  the  company  I  worked  for  could  afford  all  this.  I  would  think  of  all  the  people  in  my  department-one  department  out  of  maybe  sixty-five  in  the  corporation  -and  I  would  visualize  my  salary,  plus  Tina's,  Abelardo's,  Sue's,  Dave's,  Jim's,  and  Steve's,  and  that  of  ten  or  twelve  other  colleagues,  none  of  whom  did  anything  that  directly  pulled  in  money,  as  a  row  of  odometer  numbers  spinning  around  too  fast  to  see,  mea-  suring  the  amount  of  cash  required  every  second  to  keep  us  working.  Our  salaries  were  based  on  a  forty-hour  week,  not  a  thirty-five-hour  week:  think  of  the  amount  of  money  the  company  officially  paid  out  every  day  justto  finance  the  time  all  of  its  thou-  sands  of  employees  spent  for  lunch!  In  certain  moods  it  became  impossible  for  me  to  shift  from  my  personal  impres-  sion  of  the  one  small  expensive  sub-  unit  of  the  company  to  the  over-all  net-  income  figures  we  read  every  quarter  on  earnings  reports  in  the  internal  newsletter-it  was  difficult  to  believe  that  money  was  coming  in  at  anywhere  near  the  rate  at  which  we  were  pouring  it  out.  And  this  doubtfulness  would  sometimes  extend  to  companies  all  over  the  city:  a  skyline's  worth  of  overreaching  expenditure,  a  whole  corporate  stratum  existing  at  an  un-  sustainably  high  standard-the  white-  paper-towel  standard,  rather  than  the  hot-air-blower  standard.  Despite  this  periodic  meta-scruple,  I  certainly  helped  myself  to  the  paper  towels.  Now  I  briskly  pulled  five  of  them  from  the  diamond-shaped  open-  ing:  one  to  wash  my  face  with,  two  to  rinse  it,  a  fourth  to  dry  it,  and  a  fifth  to  dry  my  glasses  after  I  had  rinsed  them.  Each  time  I  pulled,  a  new  but  identical  towel  flap  was  there  for  me  to  grasp:  if  you  blinked  at  the  right  moment,  you  might  never  have  known  that  it  was  different  from  the  towel  you  had  been  looking  at!  This  renewing  of  newness,  whether  recalling  \xc2\xae  the  appearance  of  another  identical  Pez  tabletat  the  neck  of  the  plastic  Pez  elevator,  or  the  sight  of  one  parachutist  after  another  standing  for  a  second  in  the door  of  an  airplane  before  he  jumped,  or  \xc2\xae  the  rolling-into-position  of  a  pinball  after  the  previous  one  had  escaped  your  flippers,  or  \xc2\xae  one  sticky  disk  of  sliced  banana  dis-  placed  from  its  spot  on  the  knife  over  the  cereal  bowl  by  its  successor,  or  \xc2\xae  the  uprising  before  your  toes  of  yet  another  step  at  the  bottom  of  the  escalator  was  and  is  still  one  of  the  greater  sources  of  happiness  that  the  man-  made  world  can  offer.  And,  in  contrary  fashion,  it  remains  a  matter  of  some  personal  frustration  to  me  that  diners  and  other  fast-food  restaurants,  which  offer  so  much  of  this  kind  of  patterned  mechanical  renewal  (as  in  the  spring-  loaded  holes  from  which  one  plastic  cup  after  another  emerges),  consis-  tently  interfere  with  such  pleasures  by  (a)  failing  to  stress  to  their  employees  the  extreme  importance  of  loading  the  black-and-chrome  table-napkin  dis-  pensers  with  the  napkins  pointing  in  the  right  direction-not  backward,  with  flap  folds  hidden,  sothat  to  get  two  napkins  out  you  have  to  pinch  a  bulge  of  six  or  more  at  a  time  and  wrestle  them  all  through  the  chrome  mouth  at  once,  leaving  the  guilty  ex-  cess  on  top,  where  nobody  will  use  them  because  nobody  will  trust  them;  or,  even  if  they  don't  do  that,  by  (b)  allowing  their  people  to  stuff  the  dis-  penser  far  beyond  its  capacity,  carried  away  by  the  admittedly  impressive  number  of  napkins  it  can  hold,sothat  the  napkin  flap  you  pull  tears,  or  draws  the  machine  shuddering  on  its  rubber  nubs  over  the  countertop:  frustrating  because  here  is  an  invention  that  is  simple,  long-lived,  life-enhancing,  in-  genious,  and  one  that  could  easily  pro-  vide  one  of  those  pings  of  small-time  pleasure  in  your  fast-food  meal,  and  yet  through  ignorance  or  carelessness  its  greatness  is  consistently  traduced,  and,  as  a  result,  millions  of  table  napkins  are  thrown  away  without  having  served  their  purpose.  But  I  am  confident  that  the  food  chains  will  recognize  this  mistake  in  time  and  institute  training  procedures  that  have  their  new-hires  chanting  &quot;Flaps  to  the  front!  Flaps  to  the  front!&quot;  just  as  they  will  one  day  trade  in  all  those  hot-air  blowers  and  take  on  the  hazards  of  towel  waste.  Progress  in  these  areas  is  inevitable;  for  example,  the  maddening  tendency  of  the  soda  straw  to  float  up  and  out  of  its  " b"drink  has  recently  been  corrected  (by  some  venders,  anyway)  by  substituting  a  heavier  version  that  remains  stable  in  most  carbonated  environments.&gt;  OPENED  the  first  of  the  five  tow-  els  under  the  hot  water,  folded  it  in  half  wet,  and  tapped  just  a  half  squirt  of  pink  soap  onto  it,  which  I  diluted  with  another  quick  pass  under  the  tap.  Then,  bending  low  over  the  sink,  with  my  tie  clamped  out  of  harm's  way  under  one  elbow,  I  raised  the  dripping  folio  in  both  hands  and  blinded  myself  in  its  warmth.  I  scrubbed.  The  wings  of  my  nose  were  held  closed  by  the  sides  of  my  little  fingers.  Immeasurably  soothed,  I  murmured,  &quot;Oh,  God,&quot;  into  the  sopping  paper.  Face-washing  seems  to  work  as  acupuncture  is  said  to:  sudden  signals  of  warmth  flooding  your  brain  from  the  nerves  of  the  face,  especially  the  eyelids,  unmoor  your  thinking  for  an  instant,  dislodging  your  attention  from  any  thoughts  that  have  been  in  progress  and  causing  it  to  slide  back  randomly  to  the  first  fixed  spot  in  memory  that  it  finds-often  a  subject  that  you  had  left  unresolved  earlier  in  the  day,  which  returns  now  as  an  image  magnified  against  the  grainy  blackness  of  your  closed  eyelids,  but  in  my  particular  case  halting  at  a  3Let  me  take  this  opportunity  to  mention  another  fairly  important  development  in  the  history  of  the  straw,  I  recently  noticed,  and  remembered  dimly  half-  noticing  for  several  years  before  then,  that  the  paper  wrapper,  which  once  had  slipped  so  easily  down  the  plastic  straw  and  bunched  itself  into  a  compressed  con-  certina  that  you  could  use  to  perform  traditional  bar  and  dorm  tricks  with,  now  does  not  slip  at  all.  It  hugs  the  straw'ssurface  so  closely  that  even  though  the  straw  itself  is  stiffer  than  the  earlier  paper  straw,  the  plastic  sometimes  buckles  under  the  force  youend  up  using  in  trying  to  push  the  wrapper  down  the  old  way.  A  whole  evolved  method  for  unwrapping  straws-one-  handed,  very  like  rapping  a  cigarette  on  a  table  to  en-  sure  that  the  tobacco  was  firmly  settled  into  the  tube-now  no  longer  works,  and  we  must  pinch  off  the  tipof  the  wrapper  and  tear  our  way  two-handedly  all  the  way  down  the  seam  as  if  we  are  opening  a  piece  of  junk  mail,  But  I  have  faith  that  this  mistake,  too,  will  be  corrected;  and  we  may  someday  even  be  nostalgic  about  the  period  of  several  years  when  straws  were  difficult  to  unwrap.  It  is  impossible  to  foresee  thethings  that  go  wrong  in  these  small  innovations,  and  it  takes  time  for  them  to  be  understood  as  evils  and  acted  upon.  Similarly,  there  are  often  unexpected  plusses  to  some  minor  new  development.  What  sugar-packet  manufac-  turer  could  have  known  that  people  would  take  to  flap-  ping  the  packet  back  and  forth  to  centrifuge  its  con-  tents  to  the  bottom,  so  that  they  could  handily  tear  off  the  top?  The  nakedness  of  a  simple  novelty  in  pre-por-  tioned  packaging  has  been  surrounded  and  softened  and  made  sense  of  by  gesticulative  adaptation  (possibly  in-  spired  by  the  extinguishing  oscillation  of  a  match  after  the  lighting  of  a  cigarette),  conveniencehas  given  rise  to  ballet;  and  the  sound  of  those  flapping  sugar  packets  in  the  early  morning  fluttering  over  from  nearby  booths  is  notone  I  would  willingly  forgo,  even  though  I  take  my  coffee  unsweetened.  Nobody  could  have  predicted  that  students  would  discover  that  you  can  flip  pats  of  pre-portioned  butter  so  they  stick  to  the  wall,  or  that  tradesmen  would  discover  that  they  could  conveniently  store  pencils  behind  their  ears,  or  later  gradually  stop  storing  pencils  behind  their  ears.  An  unpretentious  technical  invention-the  straw,  the  sugar  packet,  the  pencil-has  been  ornamented  by  a  mute  folklore  of  un-  patented  behavioral  inventions,  adopted  and  fine-tuned  without  comment  or  thought     much  earlier  memory  of  my  father  and  me  joyfullyflinging  a  set  of  fancy,  otherwise  neglected  croquet  mallets  into  the  middle  boughs  ofa  blue  spruce  tree  in  our  side  yard  in  order  to  free  the  large  black  Frisbee  that  frequently  got  stuck  there  beyond  our  reach.  I  rinsed  my  glasses  quickly  under  the  tap,  and  polished  the  lenses  with  the  fifth  paper  towel,  making  bribe-me,  bribe-me  finger  motions  over  the  two  curved  surfaces  until  they  were  dry.  A  toilet  began  roaring.  I  stepped  back  from  the  sink  and  brought  my  glasses  toward  my  face,  enjoying  the  approach  of  those  two  reservoirs  of  widening  dis-  tinctness;  and  I  raised  my  eyebrows  as  I  hooked  the  side  pieces  over  my  ears.&quot;  Abe,  my  manager,  emerged  from  a  stall.  &quot;What  do  you  think,  Howie?&quot;  he  said.  It  was  his  standard  greeting-one  I  was  fond  of.  &quot;Abe,  I  don't  know  what  to  think,&quot;  I  replied-my  standard  response.  I  turned  off  the  water  and  adjusted  my  glasses  in  the  mirror  so  that  they  weren't  crooked,  knowing  that  they  would  revert  totheir  normal  slight  skew  within  five  minutes.  &quot;Lunchtime?&quot;  said  Abe,  soaping  his  hands.  &quot;Yep,&quot;  I  said.  He  leaned  toward  my  Penguin  Clas-  sics  paperback  and  pretended  to  read  the  title.  &quot;  'How  to  RemoveYour  Own  Pancreas.&quot;  Yikes.&quot;  +People  seem  to  raise  their  eyebrows  whenever  they  bring  something  close  totheir  faces.  The  first  sipof  a  morningcup  of  coffee  makes  you  raise  your  eyebrows;  I  have  seen  some  individuals  displace  their  entire  scalp  along  with  their  eyebrows  when  they  bring  a  forkful  of  food  to  their  mouths.  A  possible  explanation  is  thateye-  brow-raising  is  a  way  of  telling  your  brain  not  to  ac-  tivate  the  natural  flinch  reaction  that  the  approach  of  moving  objects  near  the  face  normally  triggers.  &quot;I  won't  do  it  here  at  the  office.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  you  will.  This  afternoon,  if  you  can  manage  it.&quot;  &quot;I'll  get  Tina  to  reserve  the  confer-  ence  room,&quot;  I  said.  The  secretto  working  for  Abe  was  realizing  that  nothing  he  said,  outside  of  company  business,  was  serious  or  true.  &quot;Service  Marketing  should  be  there,  too,&quot;  said  Abe.  &quot;Alan  will  want  me  to  remove  more  than  a  pancreas.&quot;  &quot;Very  true.  I'll  make  sure  there's  ample  space  in  the  refrigerator.&quot;  &quot;Would  you?&quot;  &quot;Or  no,  I  think  Sue's  seeing  to  that  now.  'What's  this,  a  ham?  Chrom,  chrom,  chrom.'&quot;  He  mimed  gluttony.  (Abe  had  gotten  a  lot  of  mileage  out  of  the  fact  that  Sue  had  mistakenly  taken  a  bite  out  of  his  sandwich  in  the  cafete-  ria  a  week  earlier.  She  had  apologized  profusely.)  &quot;'Hey,  here's  a  tasty  brace  of  oxen!&quot;  &quot;  I  said,  taking  it  up  asbestI  could.  &quot;  'Ghrom,  chrom,  chrom.?  &quot;  He  waved.  &quot;Enjoy.&quot;  &quot;'Take  it  easy.&quot;  I  threw  out  the  five  paper  towels  and  began  to  whistle  loudly.  When  I  pulled  on  the  door  handle,  the  door  swung  toward  me  fast  with  no  resistance.  &quot;Oop,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Oop,&quot;  said  Ron  Nemick,  entering.  I  held  the  door  for  him.  As  I  walked  out  into  the  hall,  I  realized  that  the  tune  I  had  just  begun  was  &quot;I'm  a  Yankee  Doodle  Dandy.&quot;  From  within  I  heard  Abe  cheerfully  start  up  with  &quot;I  Know  an  Old  Lady  Who  Swallowed  a  Fly.&quot; "