 b"YOU  should  have  been  there-it  i  was  great.  How  come  you  missed  it'  I'd  get  up  earlier  if  I  were  you.  Ican't  believe  you  missed  it.  Maybe  you  have  a  discipline  problem.  You  got  here  slightly  too  late.  A  moment  ago  we  had  crab  cakes.  Marie  cooked  them  up.  Did  you  see  the  sunset  when  you  came  in?  No#?  I  can't  believe  you  didn't  see  it.  The  sky  was  huge  and  dark;curved;  with  wisps  of  light,  just  the  way  you  like  it.  After  the  sun  finally  went  down,  Marie  and  I  sat  on  the  porch  and  watched  an  electric,  vital  blue  just  over  the  western  horizon.  You  hardly  ever  get  to  see  a  blue  like  that.  Marie,  me,  Billy-did  I  tell  you  he  was  there?-watched  it  together.  Billy  took  me  by  the  legs  and  tumbled  me  over  and  over  until  I  burst  out  laughing;  then  he  took  Marie  and  placed  her  on  top  of  me,  and  I  laughedand  laughed  until  I  thought  I  would  burst;  and  then  --get  this-Billy  piled  on  top  and  rolled  over  the  two  of  us  like  a  steam-  roller.  We  couldn't  stop  laughing.  Are  you  comfortable?  Can  I  get  you  something?  Sure?  Can  I  ask  you  a  question'  How  come  you  weren't  there?  Were  you  taking  some  kind  of  examination  or  something?  So  anyway,  we  got  up.  I  don't  know  if  you've  seen  the  way  Marie  looks  in  the  new  dress  I  bought  her.  It  hangs  on  her  so  nicely.  She  stood  up,  and  I  watched  the  dress  hang.  I  don't  know  if  we  missed  you  or  not.  Later  on  we  thought,  &quot;He  missed  us,&quot;  but  that  is  different.  Then  the  little  boys  and  girls  of  the  neighbor-  hood  came  by.  We  wanted  to  remember  to  tell  you  about  that.  The  oldest,  the  cute  one  who  is  called  Shiloh,  brought  a  lizard  to  Marie.That's  what  made  her  think  to  cook  up  the  crab  cakes.  When  she  brought  out  the  steaming  mess  of  crab  cakes,  she  put  her  hands  on  her  hips  and  let  the  steam  make  her  perspire-little  drops  running  down  her  neck  and  even  onto  her  breasts.  &quot;I  wouldn't  care  to  know  anyone  who  isn't  here  with  us,&quot;  she  said  defiantly.  You  should  have  been  there.  But  I've  said  that.  In  my  opinion,  you're  the  kind  of  guy  who  missed  Hell  Week,  railroads  sending  clouds  of  steam  into  the  sta-  tion,  singing  just  to  hear  the  sound  of  your  own  voice,  and  operetta.  How  could  you  have  done  it?  With  all  your  potential?  How  could  you  have  been  so  stupid  and  lazy?  You  weren't  here  when  we  had  the  intelligent  debate  about  [REDACTED].  You  skipped;  you  missed  the  moment,  and  don't  pretend  you  didn't.  But  I'm  ahead  of  myself.  Where  was  I?  Well,  after  having  such  a  wonderful  time  on  the  porch,  we  walked  down  Water  Street.  The  lights  were  just  beginning  to  come  on.  Suddenly  we  heard  &quot;The  Gal  from  Joe's&quot;-the  Ellington  tune.  It  was  Joe's.  An  acre  of  pleasure  spread  out  before  our  hungry  eyes-room  after  room!  Range-  fed  chicken,  fish  you  can't  get  any-  more,  delicious  beers,  and  turkeys  from  Tidewater  farms  like  &quot;Acrewood,&quot;  &quot;King's  Forty,&quot;  &quot;Underlea,&quot;  &quot;Scrives-  den,&quot;  and  &quot;Rose  Hall&quot;  -the  last  miraculously  raised  from  its  ashes.  The  best  part  was  that  jazz  was  being  reborn  in  the  back  room.  Maybe  you  heard  about  that-how  suddenly  a  lit-  tle  white  boy  added  a  note  to  &quot;A  Night  in  Tunisia&quot;  at  Joe's  in  such  a  way  that  the  audience  was  reduced  to  utter  re-  spectful  silence,  at  which  point  black  and  white  men  and  women,  each  one  an  expert  in  the  development  of  bebop  and  other  modern  jazz  idioms,  clasped  hands  while  tears  streamed  down  their  faces.  You  had  tosee  it.  Why  didn't  you  see  it?  Were  you  in  detention  or  what?  Then  Billy  brought  the  novel  out  of  its  doldrums  of  postmodern  irrele-  vancy.  Somehow,  with  that  wonderful  natural  spontaneity  of  his,  he  was  able  to  capture  what  I  was  saying  and  cast  it  in  novelistic  terms.  I  was  so  enthralled  with  the  rebirth  of  jazz  that  I  must  have  communicated  to  him  some  quint-  essential  American  energy,  which,  to-  gether  with  his  work  in  linguistics  and  his  deep  sympathy  for  Hispanics  and women,  came  together  to  produce  an  American  free-form  prose  that  prom-  ises  to  enrich  all  our  work.  Whew.  It  took  my  breath  away  to  hear  it.  Then  we  walked  out  along  the  causeway.  The  little  fisherfolk  who  go  out  in  their  boats  justas  they  have  for  centuries  raised  a  cheer:  &quot;Hurrah  for  the  creators  of  a  new  American  civili-  zation!&quot;  they  cried.  The  head  man  or  person  of  the  fisherfolk  came  out  and  explained  that  it  is  the  custom-in-  deed,  the  stated  purpose  and  goal-of  the  fisherfolk  to  be  willing  to  die  for  the  right  to  save  the  best  fish  for  their  sweethearts.  Then  in  a  very  tender  way  they  explained  that  we  were  their  sweethearts,  and  they  gave  us  all  the  fish.  I  erected  an  impromptu  brazier,  and  Marie  grilled  them  up.  I  gave  Marie  a  little  kiss,  and  Marie  gave  Billy  a  big  hearty  sloppy  one,  and  we  all  three  settled  down  to  eat  this  corn  tortilla  of  incomparable  delicacy,  which  Marie  had  in  her  pocket.  Then  we  told  stories  about  you.  How  you  didn't  get  a  National  Merit  Scholarship.  (Remember  how  easy  they  were  to  get?)  And  how  you  missed  seeing  the  Tall  Ships.  I  mean,  every-  body  saw  the  Tall  Ships.  I  know  people  who  were  sick  beyond  endurance  with  seeing  the  Tall  Ships  by  eccidert-just  running  into  the  sight  of  them  out  a  window  or  something-and  apparently  you  never  saw  them  once.  And  how  about  all  those  things  you  said  you  saw  when  we  weren't  with  you,  like  the  Liberation  of  [REDACTED],  and  the  '51  Na-  tional  League  pennant  race,  and  Elvis  when  he  was  under  contract  to  Sam  Phillips  at  Sun  in  [REDACTED]?  Marie  said  she  likes  you  anyway.  She  told  a  long  story  about  taking  a  bicycle  trip  with  you  in  [REDACTED]  and  stopping  in  an  out-of-the-way  restaurant  that  looked  just  perfect  and  all  they  had  was  toast.  &quot;How  do  you  make  it&quot;&quot;  you  asked.  The  man  said  nothing.  &quot;How  much  is  it?&quot;  you  asked.  By  the  way,  the  man  turned  out  to  bea  great  artist,  and  the  sketches  Marie  bought  that  day  are  worth  a  small  fortune  now.  I  wonder  why  you  had  to  ask  that.  You  made  the  man  so  sad.  Marie  liked  him  right  away  and  made  friends,  or  so  she  says.  Could  I  borrow  about  one  hundred  dollars?  Your  parts  are  on  order.  We  had  some  corned  beef,  but  that  guy  over  there  got  the  last  serving. "