 b"SAM  tried  to  hold  his  eyes  open. The  preacher,  a  fat-faced  boy  with  a  college  degree,  had  a  cu-  rious  way  of  pronouncing  his  &quot;r's.  The  sermon  was  about  pollution  of  the  soul  and  started  with  a  news  item  about  an  oil  spill.  Sam  drifted  into  a  dream  about  a  flock  of  chickens  scratching  up  a  bed  of  petunias.  His  sister  Damson,  beside  him,  knifed  him  in  the  ribs  with  her  bony  elbow.  Snoring,  she  said  with  her  eyes.  Every  Sunday  after  church,  Sam  and  Damson  visited  their  other  sister,  Hor-  tense,  and  her  husband,  Cecil.  Ordi-  narily,  Sam  drove  his  own  car,  but  today  Damson  gave  him  a  ride  because  his  car  was  low  on  gas.  Damson  lived  in  town,  but  Hort  and  Cecil  lived  out  in  the  country,  not  far  from  the  old  homeplace,  which  had  been  sold  twenty  years  before,  when  Pap  died.  As  they  drove  past  the  old  place  now,  Sam  saw  Damson  shudder.  She  had  stopped  saying  &quot;Trash&quot;  under  her  breath  when  they  passed  by  and  saw  the  junk  cars  that  had  accumulated  around  the  old  house.  The  yard  was  bare  dirt  now,  and  the  large  elm  in  front  had  split.  Many  times  Sam  and  his  sisters  had  wished  the  new  interstate  had  gone  through  the  homeplace  instead.  Sam  knew  he  should  have  bought  out  his  sisters  and  kept  it.  &quot;How  are  you,  Sam?&quot;  Hort  asked  when  he  and  Damson  arrived.  Dam-  son's  husband,  Porter,  had  stayed  home  today  with  a  bad  back.  &quot;About  [REDACTED];  Sam  grinned  and  knuckled  hischest,  pretending  heart  trouble  and  exaggerating  the  arthritis  in  his  hands.  &quot;Not  again!&quot;  Hort  said,  teasing  him.  &quot;You  just  like  to  growl,  Sam.  You've  been  that  way  all  your  life.&quot;  &quot;You  ain't  even  knowed  me  that  long!  Why,  I  remember  the  night  you  was  born.  You  come  in  mad  at  the  world,  with  your  stinger  out,  and  you've  been  like  that  ever  since.&quot;  Hort  patted  his  arm.  &quot;Your  barn  door's  open,  Sam,&quot;  she  saidas  they  went  into  the  living  room.  He  zipped  up  his  fly  unself-con-  sciously.  At  his  age,  he  didn't  care.  Hort  steered  Damson  off  into  the kitchen,  murmuring  something  about  a  blue  dish,  and  Sam  sat  down  with  Cecil  to  discuss  crops  and  the  weather.  It  was  their  habit  to  review  the  week's  weather,  then  their  health,  then  local  news-in  that  order.  Cecil  was  a  small,  amiable  man  who  didn't  liketo  argue,  A  little  later,  at  the  dinner  table,  Cecil  jokingly  asked  Sam,  &quot;Are  you  sending  any  money  to  Jimmy  Swag-  gart?&quot;  &quot;Hell,  no!  I  ain't  sending  a  penny  to  that  bastard.&quot;  &quot;Sam  never  gave  them  preachers  nothing,&quot;  Hort  said  defensively  as  she  sent  a  bow!  of  potatoes  au  gratin  Sam's  way.  &quot;That  was  Nova.&quot;  Nova,  Sam's  wife,  had  beendead  eight  and  a  half  years.  Nova  was  al-  ways  buying  chances  on  Heaven,  Sam  thought.  There  was  something  squir-  relly  in  her,  like  the  habit  she  had  of  savingout  extra  seed  from  the  garden  or  putting  up  more  preserves  than  they  could  use.  Hort  said,  &quot;I  still  think  Nova  wanted  to  build  on  that  ground  she  heired  so  shecould  have  a  house  in  her  own  name.&quot;  Damson  nodded  vigorously.  &quot;She  didn't  want  you  to  have  your  name  on  the  new  house,  Sam.  She  wanted  it  in  her  name.&quot;  &quot;Didn't  make  no  sense,  did  it?&quot;  Sam  said,  reflect-  ing  a  moment  on  Nova.  He  could  see  her  plainly,  holding  up  a  piece  of  fried  chicken  like  a  signal  for  attention.  The  impression  was  so  vivid  he  almost  asked  her  to  pass  the  peas.  Hort  said,  &quot;You  al-  ready  had  a  nice  house  with  shade  trees  and  a  tobacco  patch,  and  it  was  close  to  your  kinfolks,  but  she  just  kad  to  move  toward  town.&quot;  &quot;She  told  me  if  she  had  to  get  to  the  hospital  the  ambulance  would  get  there  quicker,&quot;  said  Dam-  son,  takinga  second  bis-  cuit.  &quot;Hort,  these  biscuits  ain't  as  good  as  you  usual-  ly  make.&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  use  self-ris-  ing,&quot;  said  Hort.  " b"   &quot;It  wouldn't  make  much  difference,  with  that  new  highway,&quot;  said  Cecil,  speaking  of  the  ambulance.  On  the  day  they  moved  to  the  new  house,  Sam  stayed  in  bedwith  the  coverspulled  up  around  him  and  re-  fused  to  budge.  He  was  still  there  at  four  o'clock  in  the  evening,  after  his  cousins  had  moved  out  all  the  furni-  ture.  Nova  ignored  him  until  they  came  for  the  bed.  She  laid  his  clothes  on  the  bed  and  rattled  thecar  keys  in  his  face.  She  had  never  learned  to  drive.  That  was  nearly  fifteen  years  ago.  Only  a  few  years  afterthat,  Nova  died  and  left  him  in  that  brick  box  she  called  a  dream  home.  There  wasn't  a  tree  in  the  yard  when  they  built  the  house.  Now  there  were  two  flowering  crab  apples  and  a  flimsy  little  oak.  FTER  dinner,  Hort  and  Cecil  brought  out  new  picturesof  their  great-grandchildren.  'The  children  had  changed,  and  Sam  couldn't  keep  straight  which  ones  belonged  to  Linda  and  which  ones  belonged  to  Donald.  He  felt  full.  He  made  himself  comfort-  able  among  the  crocheted  pillows  on  Hort's  high-backed  couch.  For  ten  minutes,  Hort  talked  on  the  telephone  to  Linda,  in  [REDACTED],  and  when  she  hung  up  she  reported  that  Linda  had  a  new  job  at  a  finance  company.  Drows-  ily,  Sam  listened  to  the  voices  rise  and  fall.  Their  language  was  so  familiar;  his  kinfolks  never  told  stories  or  remi-  nisced  when  they  sat  around  on  a  Sun-  day.  Instead,  they  discussed  character.  &quot;He's  the  stingiest  man  alive.&quot;  &quot;She  was  nice  to  talk  to  on  the  street  but  H  to  work  with.&quot;  &quot;He  never  would  listen  when  you  tried  to  tell  him  anything.&quot;  &quot;She'd  do  anything  for  you.&quot;  Now,  as  Sam  stared  at  a  picture  of  a  child  with  a  Depression-style  bow!  haircut,  Damson  was  saying,  &quot;Old  Will  Stone  always  referred  to  himself  as  me.  'Me  did  this.  Me  wants  that.'  &quot;  Hort  said,  &quot;'The  Stones  were  always  trying  to  get  you  to  do  something  for  them.  Get  around  one  of  them  and  they'd  think  of  something  they  wanted  you  to  do.&quot;  The  Stones  were  their  mother's  people.  &quot;I  never  would  let  'em  tell  me  what   to  do,&quot;  Damson  said  with  a  laugh.  &quot;I'd  say,  'I  can't!  I've  got  the  nervous  trem-  bles.&quot;  &quot;  Damson  was  little  then,  and  her  AuntRue  always  complained  of  ner-  vous  trembles.  Once,  Damson  had  tried  to  get  out  of  picking  English  peas  by  claiming  she  had  nervous  trembles,  too.  Sam  remembered  that.  He  laughed  -a  hoot  so  sudden  they  thought  he  hadn't  been  listening  and  was  laughing  about  something  private.  HORT  fixed  a  plate  of  fried  chicken,  potatoes,  field  peas,  and  stewed  apples  for  Sam  to  take  home.  He  set  it  on  the  back  seat  of  Damson's  car,  along  with  fourteen  eggs  and  asack  of  biscuits.  Damson  spurted  out  of  the  driveway  backwards,  scaring  the  hound  dog  back  to  his  hole  under  a  lilac  bush.  &quot;Hort  and  Cecil's  having  a  time  keeping  up  this  place,&quot;  Sam  said,  notic-  ing  the  weed-clogged  pen  where  they  used  to  keep  hogs.  Damson  said,  &quot;Hort's  house  always  smelled  so  good,  but  today  it  smelled  " b"bad.  It  smelled  like  fried  fish.&quot;  &quot;I  never  noticed  it,&quot;  said  Sam,  yawning.  &quot;Ain't  you  sleeping  good,  Sam?&quot;  &quot;Yeah,  but  when  my  stomach  sours  I  get  to  yawning.&quot;  &quot;You  ain't  getting  old  on  us,  are  you?&quot;  &quot;No,  I  ain't  old.  Old  is  in  your  head.&quot;  Damson  invited  her-  self  into  Sam's  house,  saying  she  wanted  to  help  him  put  the  food  away.  His  sisters  wouldn't  leave  him  alone.  They  checked  on  his  housekeeping,  searched  for  ruined  food,  made  sure  his  commode  was  flushed.  They  had  fits  when  he  took  in  a  stray  dog  one  day,  and  they  would  have  taken  her  to  the  pound  if  she  hadn'tgot  hit  on  the  road  first.  Damson  stored  the  food  in  the  kitchen  and  snooped  in  his  refrigera-  tor.  Sam  was  itching  to  get  into  his  bluejeans  and  watch  something  on  Ted  Turner's  channel  that  he  had  meant  to  watch.  He  couldn't  remember  now  what  it  was,  but  he  knew  it  came  on  at  four  o'clock.  Damson  came  into  the  living  room  and  began  to  peer  at  all  his  pictures,  exclaiming  over  each  great-grandchild.  All  Sam's  kids  and  grandkids  were  scattered  around.  His  son  worked  in  the  tire  industry  in  Akron,  [REDACTED],  and  hisoldest  grand-  daughter  operated  a  frozen-yogurt  store  in  [REDACTED].  He  didn't  know  why  anybody  would  eat  yogurt  in  any  form.  His  grandson  Bobby  had  arrived  from  [REDACTED]  last  year  with  an  Italian  woman  who  spoke  in  a  sharp  accent.  Sam  had  to  hold  himself  stiff  to  keep  from  laughing.  He  wouldn't  let  her  see  him  laugh,  but  her  accent  tickled  him.  Now  Bobby  had  written  that  she'd  gone  back  to  4974616c79.  Damson  paused  over  an  old  family  portrait-Pap  and  Mammy  and  all  six  children,  along  with  Uncle  Clay  and  Uncle  Thomas  and  their  wives,  Rosie  and  Zootie,  and  Aunt  Rue.  Sam's  three  brothers  were  dead  now.  Damson,  a  hauling  off  the  metal  trays  of  stock,  young  girl  in  the  picture,  wore  a  lace  collar,  and  Hort  was  in  blond  curls  and  a  pinafore.  Pap  sat  in  thecenter  on  a  chair  with  his  legs  set  far  apart,  as  if  to  anchor  himself  to  hold  the  burden  of  this  wild  family.  He  looked  mean  and  willful,  as  though  he  were  about  to  whip  somebody.  Suddenly  Damson  blurted  out,  &quot;Pap  ruined  my  life.&quot;  Sam  was  surprised.  Damson  hadn't  said  exactly  that  before,  but  he  knew  what  she  was  talking  about.  There  had  always  been  a  sadness  about  her,  as  though  she  had  had  the  hope  knocked  out  of  her  years  ago.  She  said,  &quot;He  ruined  my  life-keep-  ing  me  away  from  Lyle.&quot;  &quot;That  was  near-  sixty  years  ago,  Damson.  That  don't  still  bother  you  now,  does  it?&quot;  She  held  the  picture  close  to  her  breast  and  said,  &quot;You  know  how  you  hear  on  the  television  nowadays  about  little  children  getting  beat  up  or  treated  nasty  and  it  makes  such  a  mark  on  them?  Nowadays  they  know  about  that,  but  they  didn't  back  then.  They  never  knowed  how  something  when  you're  young  can  hurt  you  so  long.&quot;  &quot;&quot;None  of  that  happened  to  you.&quot;  &quot;Not  that,  but  it  was  just  as  bad.&quot;  &quot;Lyle  wouldn't  have  been  good  to  you,&quot;  said  Sam.  &quot;But  I  loved  him,  and  Pap  wouldn't  let  me  see  him.&quot;  &quot;Lyle  was  a  drunk  and  Pap  didn't  trust  him  no  further  than  he  could  throw  him.&quot;  &quot;And  then  I  married  Porter,  for  pure  spite,&quot;  she  went  on.  &quot;You  know  good  and  well  I  never  careda  thing  about  him.&quot;  &quot;How  come  you've  stayed  married  to  him  all  these  years  then?  Why  don't  you  do  like  the  kids  do  nowadays-like  Bobby  out  in  [REDACTED]?  Him  and  that  Italian.  They've  done  quit!&quot;  &quot;But  she's  a  foreigner.  I  ain't  sur-  prised,&quot;  said  Damson,  blowing  her  nose  with  a  handkerchief  from  her  pocketbook.  She  sat  down  on  Sam's  divan.  He  had  towelsspread  on  the  " b"upholstery  to  protect  it,  a  habit  of  Nova's  he  woman  was  so  practical  couldn't  get  rid  of.  That  she  had  even  orchestrat-  ed  her  deathbed.  She  had  picked  out  her  burial  clothes,  arranged  for  his  breakfast.  He  remem-  bered  holding  up  hang-  ers  of  dresses  from  her  closet  for  her  to  choose  from.  &quot;Damson,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;If  you  could  do  it  over,  you'd  do  it  different,  but  it  might  not  be  no  better.  You're  making  Lyle  out  to  be  more  than  he  would  have  been.&quot;  &quot;He  wouldn't  have  shot  hisself,&quot;  she  said  calmly.  &quot;It  was  an  accident.&quot;  She  shook  her  head.  &quot;No,  I  think  different.&quot;  Damson  had  always  claimed  he  killed  him-  self  over  her.  That  night,  Lyle  had  come  over  to  the  homeplace  near  dark.  Sam  and  his  brothers  had  helped  Pap  put  in  a  long  day  suckering  tobacco.  Sam  was  already  courting  Nova,  and  Damson  was  just  out  of  high  school.  The  neighborhood  boys  came  over  on  Sundays  after  church  like  a  pack  of  dogs  after  a  bitch.  Damson  had  an  eye  for  Lyle  because  he  was  so  daresome,  more  reckless  than  the  rest.  That  Saturday  night  when  Lyle  came  by  for  her,  he  had  been  into  some  moonshine,  and  he  was  frisky,  like  a  young  bull.  Pap  wouldn't  let  her  go  with  him.  Sam  heard  Damson  in  the  attic,  crying,  and  Lyle  was  outside,  singing  at  the  top  of  his  lungs,  calling  her.  &quot;Damson!  My  fruit  pie!&quot;  Pap  stepped  out  onto  the  porch  then,  and  Lyle  slipped  off  into  the  darkness.  Damson  set  the  family  picture  back  on  the  shelf  and  said,  &quot;He  was  different  from  all  the  other  boys.  He  knew  a  lot,  and  he'd  been  to  [REDACTED]  once  with  his  daddy-for  his  daddy's  asthma.  He  had  a  way  about  him.&quot;  &quot;I  remember  when  Lyle  come  back  late  that  night,&quot;  Sam  said.  &quot;I  heard  him  on  the  porch.  I  knowed  it  must  be  him.  He  was  loud  and  acted  like  he  was  going  to  bust  in  the  house  after  you.&quot;  &quot;Iheard  him,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;From  my  pallet  up  there  at  the  top.  It  was  so  hot  I  had  a  bucket  of  water  and  a  washrag  and  I'd  wet  my  face  and  stand  in  that  little  window  and  reach  for  a  breeze.  I  heard  him  come,  and  I  heard  him  thrashing  around  down  there  on  the  porch.  There  was  a  loose  board  you  always  had  to  watch  out  for.&quot;  &quot;I  remember  that!&quot;  Sam  said.  He  hadn't  thought  ofthat  warped  plank  in  years.  &quot;He  fell  over  it,&quot;  Damson  said.  &quot;But  then  he  got  up  and  backed  down  the  steps.  I  could  hear  him  out  in  the  yard.  Then-*&quot;  She  clasped  her  arms  around  herself  and  bowed  her  head.  &quot;Then  he  yelled  out,  Damson!  I  can  still  hear  that.&quot;  A  while  later,  they  had  heard  the  gunshot.  Sam  always  remembered  hearing  a  hollow  thump  and  a  sudden  sound  like  cussing,  then  the  explosion.  He  and  his  brother  Bob  rushed  out  in  the  dark,  and  then  Pap  brought  a  coal-  oil  lantern.  They  found  Lyle  sprawled  behind  the  barn,  with  the  shotgun  kicked  several  feet  away.  There  was  a  milk  can  turned  over,  and  they  figured  that  Lyle  had  stumbled  over  it  when  he  went  behind  the  barn.  Sam  had  never  forgotten  Damson  on  the  living-room  floor,  bawling.  She  lay  there  all  the  next  day,  screaming  and  beating  her  heavy  work  shoes  against  the  floor,  and  people  had  tostep  around  her.  The  women  fussed  over  her,  but  none  of  the  men  could  say  anything.  Sam  wanted  to  say  something  now.  He  glared  at  that  big  family  in  the  picture.  The  day  the  photographer  came,  Sam's  mother  made  everyone  dress  up,  and  they  had  to  stand  there  as  still  as  stumps  for  about  an  hour  in  that  August  heat.  He  remembered  the  kink  in  Damson's  hair,  the  way  she  had  fixed  it  sopretty  for  Lyle.  A  blurred  chicken  was  cutting  acrossthe  cor-  ner  of  the  picture,  and  an  old  bird  dog  named  Obadiah  was  stretched  out  in  front,  holding  a  pose  better  than  the  fidgety  people.  In  the  front  row,  next  to  her  mother,  Damson's  bright,  upturned  face  sparkled  with  a  smile.  Everyone  had  admired  the  way  she  could  hold  a  smile  for  the  camera.  Pointing  to  her  facein  the  picture,  " b"he  said,  &quot;Here  you  are,  Damson-a  young  girl  in  love.&quot;  Frowning,  she  said,  &quot;I  just  wish  life  had  been  different.&quot;  He  grabbed  Damson's  shoulders  and  stared  into  her  eyes.  To  this  day,  she  didn't  even  wear  glasses  and  was  still  pretty,  still  herself  in  there,  in  that  puffed-out  old  face.  He  said,  &quot;You  wish!  Well,  wish  in  one  hand  and  shit  in  the  other  one  and  see  which  one  fills  up  the  quickest!&quot;  He  got  her.  She  laughed  so  hard  she  had  to  catch  her  tears  with  her  hand-  kerchief.  &quot;Sam,  you  old  hound.  Saying  such  as  that-and  on  a  Sunday.&quot;  She  rose  to  go.  He  thought  he'd  said  the  right  thing,  because  she  seemed  lighter  on  her  feet  now.  &quot;You've  got  enough  eggs  and  bacon  to  last  you  all  week,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;And  I'm  going  to  bring  you  some  of  that  popcorn  cake  my  neighbor  makes.  You'd  never  guess  it  had  popcorn  in  it.&quot;  She  had  her  keys  in  her  hand,  her  pocketbook  on  her  arm.  She  was  wear-  ing  a  pretty  color  of  pink,  the  shade  of  baby  pigs.  She  said,  &quot;I  know  why  you've  lived  so  long,  Sam.  You  just  see  what  you  want  to  see.  You're  like  Pap,  just  as  hard  and  plain.&quot;  &quot;'That  ain't  the  whole  truth,&quot;  he  said,  feeling  a  mist  of  tears  come.  THAT  night  he  couldn't  get  to  sleep.  He  went  to  bed  at  eight-  thirty,  after  a  nature  special  on  the  television-grizzly  bears.  He  lay  in  bed  and  replayed  his  life  with  Nova.  The  times  he  wanted  to  leave  home.  The  time  he  went  to  a  lawyer  to  inquire  about  a  divorce.  (It  turned  out  to  cost  too  much,  and  anyway  he  knew  his  folks  would  never  forgive  him.)  The  time  she  hauled  him  out  of  bed  for  the  move  to  this  house.  He  had  loved  their  old  place,  a  wood-frame  house  with  a  porch  and  a  swing,  looking  out  over  tobacco  fields  and  a  strip  of  woods.  He  always  had  a  dog  then,  a  special  dog,  sitting  on  the  porch  with  him.  Here  he  had  no  porch,  just  some  concrete  steps,  where  he  would  sit  sometimes  and  watch  the  traffic.  At  night,  drunk  drivers  zoomed  along,  occasionally  plowing  into  somebody's  mailbox.  She  had  died  at  three-thirty  in  the  morning,  and  toward  the  end  she  didn't  want  anything-no  food,  no  talk,  no  news,  nothing  soft.  No  kittens  to  hold,  no  memories.  He  stayed  up  with  her  in  case  she  needed  him,  but  she  went  without  needing  him  at  all.  And  now  he  didn't  need  her.  In  the  dim  light  of  the  street  lamp,  he  sur-  veyed  the  small  room  where  he  had  chosen  to  sleep-the  single  bed,  the  bare  walls,  his  jeans  hangingupon  a  nail,  his  shoes  on  a  shelf,  the  old  wash-  stand  that  had  belonged  to  his  grand-  mother,  the  little  rag  rug  beside  the  bed.  He  was  happy.  His  birthday  was  twomonths  from  today.  He  would  be  eighty-four.  He  thought  of  that  bird  dog,  Obadiah,  who  had  been  with  him  on  his  way  through  the  woods  the  night  he  set  out  to  meet  someone-the  night  he  first  made  love  to  a  girl.  Her  name  was  Nettie,  and  at  first  she  had  been  reluctant  to  lie  down  with  him,  but  he  had  brought  a  quilt,  and  he  spread  it  out  in  the  open  pasture.  The  hayhad  been  cut  that  week,  and  the  grass  was  damp  and  sweet-smelling.  He  could  still  feel  the  clean,  soft,  cool  cotton  of  that  quilt,  the  stubble  poking  through  and  the  patterns  of  the  quilt-  ing  pressing  into  his  back.  Nettie  lay  there  beside  him,  herbreath  blowing  on  his  shoulder  as  they  studied  the  stars  far  above  the  field-little  pinpoint  holes  punched  through  the  night  sky  like  the  needle  holes  around  the  tiny  stitches  in  the  quilting.  Nettie.  Nettie  Slade.  Her  dress  had  self-covered  but-  tons,  hard  like  seed  corn. "