 b"MY  mother  gave  me  a  diary  once  -a  small  book  with  a  puffy  red  leatherette  cover,  a  lock,  and  a  tiny  gold  key.  Did  you  need  a  key?  You  could  have  opened  that  lock  with  a  twist  of  a  hairpin.  I  felt  bad  that  I  never  wrote  in  that  diary.  I  think  my  mother  knew  I  never  did.  My  mother  al-  so  bought  me  the  Nancy  Drew  books,  she  bought  me  &quot;Black  Beauty,&quot;  she  bought  me  &quot;The  Little  Prince.&quot;  My  appetite  was  for  other  stories,  real  stories.  One  day  she  found  those  I  had  hidden  be-  hind  the  refrigerator.  She  gave  up  on  me.  I  became  a  sorespot  to  her.  If  that's  the  way  you  want  to  go,  she  said,  go.  Someone  would  have  to  marry  Fay.  Howard  bought  a  gun  from  a  man  beneath  the  railroad  bridge.  The  Em-  melins  were  planning  to  have  his  father  put  away.  The  Spaeckel  boys  went  every  Tuesday  to  a  special  house  in  Oconomowoc.  W  hen  the  kitchen  shades  were  up,  Mrs.  Welch  could  be  seen  banging  her  head  rhythmically  against  the  wall. And  this  was  just  one  week's  gossip.  It  is  true  that  my  passion  could  have  settled  elsewhere,  but  you  could  trans-  port  gossip-gossip  was  at  home  any-  where.  From  1949  to  1951  my  family  moved  six  times,  fighting  labor's  battles  from  [REDACTED]  to  West  Allis  to  She-  boygan,  then  back  again.  We  didn't  get  asfaras  [REDACTED].  We  were  never  German  enough  for  the  Germans  or  Polish  enough  for  the  Poles.  If  theyask  you,  my  mother  said,  tell  them  you  are  a  unionist.  Sometimes  we  moved  because  some  rubber-stomached  landlady  said,  I  don't  want  any  more  nuts  like  you  living  here-where  do  people  like  you  come  from,  anyway?  Sometimes  we  fled  a  trail  of  bad  luck.  Add  tothis  the  times  when  the  furnace  broke  down  or  the  doors  slammed  too  hard  if  the  rent  was  late.  Back  and  forth  we  went,  courting  breakage  with  lamps  and  boxes  tum-  bled  into  the  trunks  of  ten-year-old  cars.  We  lived  on  Twenty-first,  then  off  Twenty-ninth,  then  on  Twenty-sixth.\n\nThe  horizon  of  my  life  changed,  but  I  always  made  friends.  Mine  was  a  family  of  movers,  searchers,  mobile  Americans,  And  I  blamed  a  lot  on  that.  I  wasn't  doing  well  in  school.  I  saidthat  was  the  reason,  ignoring  the  fact  that  my  brother  received  almost  perfect  grades.  I  decided  that  what  was  solid  in  the  world  was  tales.  And  so  I  found  gossip,  and  it  improved  life.  LMOST  as  soon  as  we  settled  in  to  our  new  second-floor  flat  on  Twenty-third  Street,  I  met  Gina  Rheinhardt.  I  was  age  fifteen  and  Gina  Rheinhardt  was  twenty-eight.  Gina  had  three  children,  and  her  husband  drove  a  Bluebell  bus  to  Prairie  du  Chien  and  La  Crosse  and  sometimes  did  the  run  to  Duluth.  Does  age  mat-  ter?  Friends  are  friends.  Coffee,  Gina  said.  I  was  willing.  Your  mother?  she  added.  I  shook  my  head.  Leah  made  her  own  coffee.  Gina's  cups  had  names  on  them,  or  sayings.  I  got  a  brown  cup  with  &quot;GIRL&quot;  in  yellow  raised  letters  with  a  bleeding  glaze.  Gina  thought  it  was  a  [REDACTED]  cup.  All  their  cups  were  souvenirs,  some  from  their  trip  to  [REDACTED],  some  from  the  mother-  in-law  in  Santa  Rosa,  and  some  from  the  Christmas  Village  in  the  Dells,  where  they  went  on  a  summer  vacation.  It's  a  dump  around  here,  Gina  told  me.  My  family  used  to  live  on  Twenty-fourth,  near  the  Second  Avenue  School,  but  I  went  to  St.  Anne's.  I  marched  to  that  tune  right  through  high  school,  and  then  I  went  into  the  telephone  com-  pany  with  two  of  my  girlfriends.  My  Hugh  was  dating  one  of  those  girls,  but  she  went  to  [REDACTED]  for  a  month  and  that  was  that.  Hugh  and  I  got  married.  I  stayed  on  at  the  phone  company  for  eight  months,  until  Dolores  came.  I  was  stuck  then.  After  that,  " b"Sandy  came,  then  Baby  Hugh.  I'd  go  back  to  the  phone  company  in  a  flash,  if  I  could.  Leah  said  that  a  woman  that  age  taking  up  with  me  was  bad  taste.  My  mother  didn't  realize  how  snobbish  she  sounded.  You  would  have  thought  we  num-  bered  in  our  family  peo-  ple  who  had  amounted  to  something.  I  told  my  mother  that  she  really  didn't  know  Gina.  Leah  looked  up  from  her  book  and  said  that  she  bet  Gina  Rheinhardt's  table  was  sticky  to  the  touch  and  that  in  ker  bookcases  were  knickknacks  and  gewgaws.  I  didn't  answer.  After  all,  there  were  circum-  stances;  I  knew  that  Leah  was  touchy-especially  now  that  she  had  a  new  job  selling  linens  in  Carpenter's  Everything  for  Your  Home  and  they  told  her  to  wear  dark  dresses  and  they  liked  white  collars.  My  mother  hated  pushing  herself  into  a  corset  every  morning.  Hell  of  a  way  to  live,  she  said.  But  she  had  run  out  of  factory  jobs.  She  was,  she  said,  persona  non  grata  in  plenty  of  person-  nel  offices.  My  father  had  a  pinched  nerve  and  pain  that  sizzled  through  him.  It  was  verifiable.  He  brought  home  an  X-ray  one  day  and  dropped  it  on  the  table.  See,  he  said.  My  father  did  what  he  could.  Gina  and  I  traded  movie  magazines  -we  knew  who  was  seen  together,  knew  about  mysterious  liaisons  and  un-  claimed  children.  I  supplied  items  from  the  newspapers.  Whatever  Gina  missed  I  filled  in.  Gina  was  not  basically  a  reader,  butshe  had  imagination.  But  Gina  didn't  have  a  sense  of  history.  I  tried  to  tell  her  how  good  gossip  was  in  the  past.  In  fact,  how  all  the  truly  great  stories  seemed  to  be  over.  Hadn't  everything  really  impor-  tant  happened  before  I  was  old  enough  totalk  about  it?  Consider  the  Prince  of  [REDACTED]  and  Wally.  That  had  every-  thing,  including  a  reel  king.  Charlie  Chaplin  and  all  those  girls.  Fatty  Arbuckle.  All  before  my  time.  You  had  to  read  about  them.  That's  the  prob-  lem,  Gina  said.  That  was  all  yesterday  -it  can't  change.  She  was  interested  in  what  was  happening  now;  after  it  was  over,  she  was  done  with  it.  I  had  developed  a  philosophy  of  gos-  sip.  I  explained  what  it  was  one  Satur-  day  morning  to  Gina.  Gossip,  I  said,  is  like  fairy  tales.  Think  about  fairy  tales.  Take  &quot;Rumpelstiltskin,'&quot;'  for  in-  stance-it's  a  scandal,  isn't  it,  if  that  ugly  old  gnome  gets  his  hands  on  that  pretty  young  girl.  Same  with  &quot;The  Snow  Queen&quot;  and  &quot;The  Princess  and  the  Pea.&quot;  That's  fairy  tales  for  you-a  lot  of  wicked  stepmothers  and  wrong  marriages  and  mistreated  children.  We  could  make  up  local  fairy  tales.  When  we  saw  Mr.  Zimmerman  drunk-why,  pull  that  thought  out  further.  Imagine  him  coming  home  every  night  nearly  passed  out,  pissing  on  the  stairs  in  front  of  everyone,  with  Mrs.  Zimmerman  moaning  that  she  shouldn't  have  mar-  ried  him  and  wished  that  he  were  dead.  A  fairy  tale-the  start  of  a  fairy  tale.  Get  it?  Gina  stared  at  me,  then  she  yelled  at  Baby  Hugh  to  get  away  from  the  door,  then  the  other  two  came  in  wanting cookies,  and  Big  Hugh  shouted  from  the  bedroom  that  we  must  all  shut  up  or  he  couldn't  sleep.  So  I  had  to  be  content  with  movie  magazines  and  local  tales.  It's  true  that  sometimes,  unasked,  my  Aunt  Beulah  would  read  her  letters  out  loud;  they  contained  gossip,  but  who  knew  the  people?  Achbend's  divorce,  Tilmo's  self-hatred,  the  explosive  nature  of  Gottbhaum.  Leah  might  nod.  But  too  many  details  were  missing  for  me.  Even  real  gossip  had  to  be  changed  sometimes.  What's  true  isn't  necessar-  ily  believed.  For  instance,  one  night  I  saw  two  people  making  love  across  the  street  on  the  roof.  If  they  had  been  on  the  flat  part,  I  might  not  have  seen  them,  but  they  spread  a  blanket  on  the  slanted  side.  They  were  up  there  with  most  of  their  clothes  off  -body  shadows  with  the  moon  in  its  fourth  quarter  and  with  the  low  orange  glow  from  the  street  light.  The  man  was  more  indistinct,  but  the  woman  I  saw  clearly.  I  knew  both  of  them.  But  who  would  believe  the  story-that  I  stood  at  the  window  of  my  own  darkened  bedroom  bold  as  a  lark  and  watched  at  ease?  So  I  changed  it-I  stuck  the  man  and  woman  in  a  car  parked  behind  " b"the  school  playground,  had  myself  pass  by,  and  reported  that  I  saw  only  a  glimpse  but  any  fool  could  tell  what  went  on,  Gossip  is  fickle  in  the  way  it  behaves.  Take  the  best  story  to  cross  that  neigh-  borhood  in  years.  I  wasn't  the  first  to  hear  it,  even  though  the  chief  player  was  someone  I  knew.  I  knew  her  before  she  quit  school.  I  have  enough  typing,  Elizabeth  said.  Who  needs  more?  I  can  make  a  living.  The  story  came  from  Gina.  Gina,  migrating  one  day  from  supermarket  to  laundry,  heard  the  tale.  You'll  never,  she  said  to  me,  never  in  a  million  years,  guess  what  I  heard.  You  know  Dora's  daughter  Elizabeth?  Fat  Elizabeth?  I  nodded.  She  is  going  to  be  married,  Gina  said.  Guess  who's  the  lucky  man.  Oh  guess!  I  give  up,  Isaid.  The  butcher,  Gina  said  triumphantly.  Your  old  butcher.  God,  I  said,  and  sucked  in  my  breath.  Yes,  Gina  said.  I  heard  it  myself  this  afternoon  from  her  cousin.  Elizabeth's  got  a  ring  already.  How's  that  for  news?  Leah  said  that  the  marriage-to-be  was  like  a  primitive  sacrifice.  Elizabeth  -how  old  was  she;  seventeen,  proba-  bly-and  that  ancient  man.  That  old  man  past  seventy.  It  was  almost  white  slavery.  She  had  half  a  mind  to  see  Elizabeth's  mother  and  tell  her  what  was  what.  Maybe  there  was  even  a  law.  Don't  you  embarrass  me,  I  said.  You!?  Leah  said.  Then  we  were  yelling,  and  afterward  I  knew  that  the  neighbor-  hood  had  heard  too  much.  But  Gina  said  the  next  morning,  Show  me  a  family  that  says  it  doesn't  fight  and  I'll  show  you  liars.  The  reason  I  never  heard  her  andBig  Hugh,  she  said,  was  because  their  quar-  rels  tended  to  occur  mostly  at  nine  or  ten  in  the  morning,  before  Big  Hugh  went  to  bed.  I  was  in  school  then.  How  much  did  we  know  about  Eliz-  abeth  and  the  butcher?  I  used  to  say  that  Elizabeth  was  left  behind  in  every-  thing.  It  was  true.  All  the  other  girls  slimmed  down  and  grew  tall.  Elizabeth  stayed  as  she  was  in  eighth  grade,  short  and  squatty,  with  baby  plumpness  hardening  into  wrinkled  permanence  above  her  waistband.  On  a  Saturday  two  months  before  the  wedding  Gina  and  I  planned  an  expedition  past  the  butcher  shop.  Arm  in  arm  and  giggling,  we  walked  down the  street;  her  three  children,  bribed  with  candy,  were  circling  us  like  a  litter.  Reconnoitering,  we  said,  and  nudged  each  other.  The  butcher,  be-  hind  his  counter,  was  visible  from  the  window.  Look  at  him,  we  whispered,  pretending  to  be  reading  his  specials.  The  old  butcher-an  ancient,  with-  ered  man.  It  was  reported  that  he  had  been  in  the  infantry  under  the  Kaiser.  Anyway,  the  butcher  came  from  Mannheim  in  1935  or  1936.  That's  what  someone  remembered.  The  butcher  had  been  around  for  a  long  time.  Certainly  he  was  there  at  the  time  of  the  word  game.  How  did  that  game  start'  'The  word,  I  told  Elizabeth  the  year  I  was  eight,  is  horse.  Be  a  nice  horse,  we  warned  each  other  daily.  The  word  wound  itself  into  our  minds  like  a  name  tape  with  the  letters  repeated  every  few  inches,  and  we  be-  came  impossible,  irritating,  insolent.  It  was  Elizabeth  who  went  too  far.  Ac-  companying  me  to  the  butcher  shop,  she  was  the  one  who  said,  We'll  have  horse  today.  The  butcher's  face  turned  red.  Elizabeth  and  I  ran  giggling  and  frightened.  Our  bodies  collided  in  the  doorway.  The  butcher's  meat  wasn't  anything  but  he  would  cut  to  order,  and  sell  little  pieces.  He  made  sausages,  too,  and  sold  a  line  of  cheap  cold  cuts,  to  fit  the  neighborhood.  Leah  said  that  she  had  never  eaten  stuff  like  that  before  and  wasn't  about  to  start  now.  Did  he  like  little  girls?  Yes,  accord-  ing  to  rumors.  His  mother  lived  with  him  for  years.  In  summer  children  would  yell  in  squeaky  mimicry  of  her  voice,  &quot;Oh  Heinz,Heinz,  wann  machen  wir  Licht?&quot;  The  bolder  girls  would  pretend  to  be  that  old  woman  wandering  through  darkened  rooms.  They  would  bump  into  trees  and  bushes  until  their  laughter  made  them  stop.  Gina  said  that  Elizabeth  would  fit  right  into  that  family,  like  stuffing  in  one  more  prune.  Imagine  that  one  hav-  ing  fun!  Gina  said  you  could  tell  who  were  the  prissyvirgins.  Look  at  their  umbrellas,  she  said.  They  carry  big  black  men's  umbrellas.  Why,  she  didn't  know.  Inevitably,  though,  sex  was  going  to  happen  to  Elizabeth  with  that  old  man,  his  clothes  off,  bare  and  shivering.  It  was  possible  that  the  butcher  hadhad  many  women  before.  Anything  is  pos-  sible.  He  had  never  seemed  strange  or  shy.  He  could  have  had  plenty  of  " b"women.  I  rubbed  my  shoulders.  Did  an  old  man's  hands  slide  down  a  girl's  body  with  slow,  cautious  caresses,  the  fingers  tapping  out  an  experienced  beat  like  a  rat-a-tat-tat'  Baby,  would  the  old  man  whisper,  sweetsugar  child?  Maybe  in  German.  Anyway,  Elizabeth  would  never  tell  me.  I  could  understand  how  you  would  feel  ifit  was  some  boy-someone  try-  ing  to  get  you  in  the  back  ofa  car,  someone  saying,  Hey  come  on,  come  on,  and  pulling  at  your  clothes.  I  bought  a  box  of  notepaper,  pale  blue,  edged  with  a  line  of  white.  &quot;Con-  gratulations,&quot;  I  wrote.  &quot;All  the  best  happiness.&quot;  I  had  never  written  any-  thing  like  that  before.  Itried  saying  the  words  out  loud.  They  didn't  sound  that  strange.  WAS  it  the  note  that  got  me  the  invitation?  It  was  just  to  the  reception-&quot;Come  Celebrate  with  Us&quot;  in  raised  gold  letters  on  cream-colored  paper.  Some  people  have  all  the  luck,  Gina  said,  and  she  held  up  the  invita-  tion  for  the  admiration  of  the  six  women  in  her  kitchen.  They  were  women  from  the  neighborhood.  They  examined  my  invitation.  Then  it  came out-who  else  was  invited.  Three,  four  of  the  women.  The  butcher's  cus-  tomers.  Better  customers  than  Gina,  who  stopped  in  once  in  a  while  for  soup  bones  and  a  bit  of  ham.  She  was  out  in  the  cold.  Well,  never  mind,  Gina  said,  secondhand  is  better  than  no  hand.  Cissie  will  tell  the  story.  Twice  that  week  we  all  met  in  Gina's  kitchen  and  explored  the  situa-  tionof  Elizabeth  and  the  old  butcher.  Her  mother  had  watery  eyes.  The  fa-  ther  was  adrunkard.  You'd  think  the  Church  would  stop  it.  The  selling  of  a  child.  What  else  was  it?  Sometimes  as  we  spoke  the  real  Elizabeth  vanished-  she  became  tall  and  thin  and  blond  and  locked  in  a  tower,  Leah  was  not  pleased.  It  smells,  she  said.  How  did  you  get  invited,  anyway?  Let  her  go,  my  father  said.  What's  the  difference?  It's  life.  Leah  stared  at  me.  That  better  not  be  life.  Don't  tell  me  youand  Elizabeth  are  still  friends,  she  said.  Friendship  is  never  lost,  I  replied.  Where  were  they  holding  the  wed-  ding  reception?  The  butcher  rented  the  Stinson  S.  Weaver  Hall.  I  knew  that  hall-a  red  brick  building  with  factory  contours.  I  knew  the  cold  touch  of  its  39  smooth  plaster  walls  against  my  back  where  I  had  stood  and  listened  to  the  hissing  of  radiators  as  I  handed  out  union  literature  to  the  almost  con-  verted.  The  ink  on  that  paper  came  off  on  my  hands,  wholewords  on  my  forearms.  With  each  pamphlet  offered  I  was  supposed  to  shout,  Join  the  union.  My  mother's  local  thought  the  people  responded  to  children;  also  they  didn't  have  to  pay  me.  I  went  to  the  hall  once  a  month  until  I  got  old  enough  to  refuse.  Do  it  yourself,  I  said.  For  the  reception  I  had  to  wear  my  green  plaid  school  skirt  and  a  white  blouse,  but  I  had  decent  stockings  and  new  black  shoes.  I  intended  to  see  everything,  to  be  a  reporter  from  start  to  finish.  But  when  I  arrived  at  the  hall  it  was  clear  that  I  had  missed  a  lot.  Neighborhood  men  stood  in  the  door-  way  drinking  bottles  of  the  butcher's  beer,  laughing  and  making  ominous  noise,  and  sweating  even  in  the  chill  of  the  dark  night.  The  hall  was  still  itself  despite  the  white  cr\xc3\xa9pe-paper  streamers  and  all  the  lights-it  didn't  look  festive.  That's  why  it  was  such  a  bargain  to  rent-  because  of  what  it  lacked.  Everyone  I  knew  seemed  different,  though.  All  the  neighborhood  women  became  strangers.  Dressing  for  a  party  had  aged  those  women,  given  them  guarded  eyes  as  they  sat  in  groups  for  their  matronly  monitoring,  yelling  That's  enough  to  little  children  out  there  in  the  center  of  the  floor  who  pretended  to  dance  and  bumped  into  everyone.  Who  was  my  age?  The  bride.  I  followed  the  flow  of  people  to  a  row  of  sawhorse  tables  covered  with  platters  of  food-gray  to  pink  to  rosy-  red  sausages  in  magical  pyramids,  scoops  of  purple  cabbage  in  puddles  of  lavender  milk,  pale  strings  of  coleslaw.  I  would  skip  the  food.  But  a  drink?  No  one  was  paying  any  attention.  I  took  a  glass  of  beer.  People  said  hello  and  how  are  you  doing,  but  no  one  asked  me  to  sit  down.  I  put  my  back  against  a  wall.  Anyway,  I  wasn't  present  to  have  a  good  time-  I  was  there  to  observe.  It  was  a  noisy  wedding.  Music  from  a  three-man  band  on  the  low  platform  -three  old  men,  the  one  with  the  accordion  standing  in  the  middle.  They  played  fast  dance  music  and  " b"polkas.  Guests  shouted  requests.  Do  &quot;The  Four-Eyed  Beggar&quot;!  Play  &quot;Catherine's  Crawl&quot;!  Everyone  tap-  ping,  swaying,  whistling.  At  the  far  end  of  the  hall  Elizabeth's  mother  sat  fanning  herself  with  a  paper  napkin,  her  cheeks  glowing,  her  dress  pink,  her  hair  an  upsweep  of  rolls  and  curls.  The  bride  stood  nearby  in  a  white  lace  dressthat  stopped,  unrea-  sonably,  above  her  fat  ankles.  The  bridegroom  was  on  the  floor  danc-  ing  first  with  this  woman,  then  with  that.  I  finished  my  glass  of  beer,  licked  the  streak  of  foam  from  the  rim.  I  was  trying  to  put  it  all  in  memory-who  danced,  who  sat,  who  laughed-but  each  impression  began  to  chew  up  the  last  until  it  was  all  crowd  and  music.  Nothing  to  cling  to.  And  later,  with  Gina,  there  would  be  a  quiz.  I  saw  Elizabeth.  I  could  see  her  clearly,  standing  alone  by  theplatform.  I  ought  to  speak  to  her.  Anyway,  it  would  give  me  something  to  do.  Many  congratulations,  I  said.  Eliza-  beth  smiled  back,  her  lipstick  smeared  from  too  many  kisses.  She  plucked  im-  patiently  at  her  bodice,  wrinkled  and  snug  against  her  body.  Want  tosee  the  rings?  she  said  and  held  out  her  hand.     Glass-bright  glitter  beneath  my  nose.  Much  happiness,  I  said.  They're  gorgeous.  Elizabeth  giggled,  quickly  looked  around.  His  cousins,  she  whispered,  are  mad  as  hell.  The  music  rolled  to  a  stop.  Wait,  Elizabeth  said,  her  hand  on  my  arm,  and  she  called  out  to  her  butcher.  You  know  Cissie,  she  said.  Ah,  the  butcher  said.  Come  dance  with  me,  Cissie.  Go  on,  Elizabeth  said,  encouraging  me.  I've  slid  my  shoes  off  -be  a  half  hour  before  I'll  be  able  to  get  them  back  on.  I  couldn't  refuse.  The  butcher  had  me,  he  moved  me,  he  twirled  me.  I  hadn't  seen  him  up  close  for  years.  In  my  thoughts  I  had  given  him  rheumy  eyes,  coarsely  shaven  skin,  hanging  flesh.  I  had  spared  him  nothing.  But  the  truth  was  that  he  didn't  look  so  bad,  not  so  old,  not  so  fat.  Had  hebeen  someone  else  once?  His  shoulders  were  straight  and  firm.  Dancing,  he  whispered  to  me,  is  an  art.  The  secret  is  all  in  the  concentra-  tion.  He  bounced  me  forward.  He  cer-  tainly  had  plenty  of  energy.  How  well  did  he  know  Elizabeth?  Round  and  round  the  butcher  led  me,  and  when  the  accor-  dion  signalled  with  a  crashing  chord  the  end  of  that  dance,  the  butcher  bowed-not  a  courtly  bow  but  a  flashy  Arthur  Murray  bow.  He  had  worn  me  out.I  found  an  empty  chair,  my  chest  heaving  and  the  sound  of  seashore  waves  in  my  ears.  I  focussed  on  old  landmarks-the  blis-  tering  paint,  the  ceiling  cracks,  the  striations  in  the  third  glass  globe  that  swayed  from  its  chain.  Where  was  the  butcher?  The  butcher  was  back  on  the  floor  with  someone  wearing  a  long  black  velvet  dress-a  heavy-  breasted  woman,  a  genuine  Valkyrie.  I  was  hungry.  I  went  over  to  the  tables  and  filled  a  plate  with  pink  sausage  and  purple  cab-  bage,  added  sharp  mustard  and  a  hunk  of  sour  rye  bread.  How  good  it  all  tasted!  Toasts!  It  was  a  drinker's  shout,  immediately  picked  up  by  others.  Toasts!  Toasts!  They  chanted.  Trays  of  glasses  filled  with  wine  were  passed.  I  took  a  glass.  To  the  bride  and  groom!  To  happi-  ness!  To  long  life!  To  forever  and  ever!  The  bride  and  groom  were  pushed  forward.  My  father  was  right.  This  was  life.  I  stood  up  on  my  chair,  bal-  ancing  carefully  in  my  new  shoes,  my  tiny  heels.  What  did  I  see?  I  saw  the  butcher's  hand  move  down  Elizabeth's  back,  saw  his  fingers  squeeze  one  but-  tock,  pinching  the  lace  dress,  before  moving  upward  again.  Bride  and  groom  climbed  the  three  steps  leading  to  the  platform.  The  band  played  a  piece  romantic  with  vibrato.  The  butcher  waved  at  the  crowd  with  one  arm  as  the  other  now  curved  across  Elizabeth's  shoulders  and  pulled  her  close.  How  fit  the  butcher  seemed,  how  young,  and  Elizabeth,  standing  next  to  him  in  her  tight  white  dress,  her  curls  still  fresh  from  yesterday's  perm,  raised  her  hand  in  enthusiastic  acknowledgment  of  all  those  good  wishes. "