 b"WE  lived  then  in  [REDACTED],  in  V  K]  the  middle  of  everything.  It  was  the  sixtiee-our  radios  sang  out  love  all  day  long.  This  of  course  is  history.  It  was  before  the  city  of  [REDACTED]  went  broke,  before  its  river  caught  fire.  We  were  four.  My  mother  and  father,  Carlton,  andme.  Carlton  turned  sixteen  the  year  I  turned  nine.  Between  us  were  several  brothers  and  sisters,  weak  flames  quenched  in  our  mother's  womb.  We  are  not  a  fruitful  or  many-branched  line.  Our  family  name  is  Morrow.  Our  father  was  a  high-school  music  teacher.  Our  mother  taught  children  called  &quot;exceptional,&quot;  which  meant  that  some  could  name  the  day  Christmas  would  fall  in  the  year  2000  but  couldn't  remember  to  take  down  their  pants  when  they  peed.  We  lived  in  a  tract  called  Woodlawn-neat  one-  and  two-story  houses  painted  optimistic  colors.  The  tract  bordered  a  cemetery.  Behind  our  back  yard  was  a  gully  choked  with  brush  and,  beyond  that,  the  field  of  smooth,  polished  stones.  I  grew  up  with  the  cemetery  and  didn't  mind  it.  It  could  be  beautiful.  A  single  stone  angel,  small-breasted  and  deter-  mined,  rose  amid  the  more  conservative  markers  close  to  our  house.  Farther  away,  in  a  richer  section,  miniature  mosques  and  Parthenons  spoke  silently  to  [REDACTED]  of  man's  enduring  accom-  plishments.  Carlton  and  I  played  in  the  cemetery  as  children  and,  with  a  little  more  age,  smoked  joints  and  drank  Southern  Comfort  there.  I  was,  thanks  to  Carlton,  the  most  criminally  ad-  vanced  nine-year-old  in  my  fourth-  grade  class.  I  was  going  places.  I  made  no  move  without  his  counsel.  Here  is  Carlton  several  months  be-  fore  his  death,  in  an  hour  so  alive  with  snow  that  earth  and  sky  are  identically  white.  He  labors  among  the  markers,  and  I  run  after,  stung  by  snow,  follow-  ing  the  light  of  his  red  knitted  cap.  Carlton's  hair  is  pulled  back  into  a  ponytail,  neat  and  economical,  a  perfect  pinecone  of  hair.  He  is  thrifty,  in  his  way.  We  have  taken  hits  of  acid  with  our  breakfast  juice.  Or,  rather,  Carlton  has  taken  a  hit,  and  I,  in  consideration  of  my  youth,  have  been  allowed  half.  This  acid  is  called  windowpane.  It  is  for  clarity  of  vision,  as  Vicks  is  for  decongestion  of  the  nose.  Our  parents  are  at  work,  earning  the  daily  bread.  We  have  come  out  into  the  cold  so  that  the  house,  when  we  reenter  it,  will  shock  us  with  its  warmth  and  righ-  teousness.  Carlton  believes  in  shocks.  &quot;I  think  I'm  coming  on  to  it,&quot;  I  call  out.  Carlton  has  on  his  buckskin  jacket,  which  is  worn  down  to  the  shine.  On  the  back,  across  his  shoulder  blades,  his  girlfriend  has  stitched  an  electric  blue  eye.  As  we  walk  I  speak  into  the  eye.  &quot;I  think  I  feel  some-  thing,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;Too  soon,&quot;  Carlton  calls  back.  &quot;Stay  loose,  Frisco.  You'll  know  when  the  time  comes.&quot;  I  am  excited  and  terrified.  We  are  into  serious  stuff.  Carlton  has  done  acid  half  a  dozen  times  before,  but  I  am  new  at  it.  We  slipped  the  tabs  into  our  mouths  at  breakfast,  while  our  mother  paused  over  the  bacon.  Carlton  likes  taking  risks.  Snow  collects  in  the  engraved  letters  on  the  headstones.  I  lean  into  the  wind,  trying  to  decide  whether  everything  around  me  seems  strange  because  of  the  drug  or  just  because  everything  truly  is  strange.  Three  weeks  earlier,  a  family  across  town  had  been  sitting  at  home,  watching  television,  when  a  single-  engine  plane  fell  on  them.  Snow  swirls  around  us,  seeming  to  fall  up  as  well  as  down.  Carlton  leadsthe  way  to  our  spot,  the  pillared  entrance  to  a  society  tomb. This  tomb  is  a  palace.  Stone  cherubs  cluster  on  the  peaked  roof,  with  their  stunted,  frozen  wings  and  matrons'  faces.  Under  the  roof  is  a  veranda,  backed  by  cast-iron  doors  that  lead  to  the  house  of  the  dead  proper.  In  sum-  mer  this  veranda  is  cool.  In  winter  it  blocks  the  wind.  We  keep  a  bottle  of  Southern  Comfort  here.  Carlton  finds  the  bottle,  unscrews  the  cap,  and  takes  a  good,  long  draw.  He  is  studded  with  snowflakes.  He  hands  me  the  bottle,  and  I  take  a  more  conservative  drink.  Even  in  winter,  the  tomb  smells  mossy.  Dead  leaves  and  a  yellow  M&amp;M's  wrapper,  worried  by  the  wind,  scrape  on  the  marble  floor.  &quot;Are  you  scared?&quot;  Carlton  asks  me.  I  nod.  I  never  think  of  lying  to  him.  &quot;Don't  be,  man,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Fear  will  screw  you  right  up.  Drugs  can't  hurt  you  if  you  feel  no  fear.&quot;  I  nod.  We  stand  sheltered,  passing  the  bot-  tle.  I  lean  into  Carlton's  certainty  as  if  it  gave  off  heat.  &quot;We  can  do  acid  all  the  time  at  Woodstock,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;Right  on.  Woodstock  Nation.  Yow!&quot;  &quot;Do  people  really  live  there?&quot;  I  ask.  &quot;Man,  you've  got  to  stop  asking  that.  The  concert's  over,  but  people  are  still  there.  It's  the  new  nation.  Have  faith.&quot;  I  nod  again,  satisfied.  There  is  a  different  country  for  us  to  live  in.  I  am  already  a  new  person,  renamed  Frisco.  My  old  name  was  Robert.  \xc2\xab&quot;We'll  do  acid  all  the  time,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;You  better  believe  we  will.&quot;  Carl-  ton's  face,  surrounded  by  snow  and  marble,  is  lit.  His  eyes  are  vivid  as  neon.  Something  in  them  tells  me  he  can  see  the  future,  a  ghost  that  hovers  over  everybody's  head.  In  Carlton's  future  we  all  get  released  from  our  jobs  and  schooling.  Awaiting  us  all,  and  soon,  is  a  bright,  perfect  simplicity.  A  life  among  the  trees  by  the  river.  &quot;How  are  you  feeling,  man?&quot;  he  asks  me.  &quot;Great,&quot;  I  tell  him,  and  it  is  purely  the  truth.  Doves  clatter  up  out  of  a  bare  tree  and  turn  at  the  same  instant,  trans-  forming  themselves  from  steel  to  silver  in  the  snow-blown  light.  I  know  then  that  the  drug  is  working.  Everything  before  me  has  become  suddenly,  radi-  antly  itself.  How  could  Carlton  have  " b"26  known  this  was  about  to  happen?  &quot;Oh,&quot;  I  whisper.  His  hand  settles  on  my  shoulder.  'Stay  loose,  Frisco,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;There's  nota  thing  in  this  pretty  world  to  be  afraid  of.  I'm  here.&quot;  I  am  not  afraid.  I  am  astonished.  I  had  not  realized  until  this  moment  how  real  everything  is.  A  twig  lies  on  the  marble  at  my  feet,  bearing  a  cluster  of  hard  brown  berries.  The  broken-off  end  is  raw,  white,  fleshly.  Trees  are  alive.  &quot;I'm  here,&quot;  Carlton  says  again,  and  he  is.  OURS  later,  we  are  sprawled  on  the  sofa  in  front  of  the  television,  ordinary  as  Wally  and  the  Beav.  Our  mother  makes  dinner  in  the  kitchen.  A  pot  lid  clangs.  We  are  undercover  agents.  I  am  trying  to  conceal  my  amazement.  Our  father  is  building  a  grandfather  clock  from  a  kit.  He  wants  to  have  something  to  leave  us,  something  for  us  to  pass  along.  We  can  hear  him  in  the  basement,  sawing  and  pounding.  I  know  what  is  laid  out  on  his  sawhorses  -a  long,  raw  wooden  box,  onto  which  he  glues  fancy  moldings.  A  pearl  of  sweat  meanders  down  his  forehead  as  he  works.  Tonight  I  discovered  my  ability  to  see  every  room  of  the  house  at  once,  to  know  every  single  thing  that  goes  on.  A  mouse  nibbles  inside  the  wall.  Electrical  wires  curl  behind  the  plaster,  hidden  and  patient  as  snakes.  &quot;Sh-h-h,&quot;  I  say  to  Carlton,  who  has  not  said  anything.  He  is  watching  tele-  vision  through  his  splayed  fingers.  Gunshots  ping.  Bullets  raise  chalk  dust  on  a  concrete  wall.  I  have  no  idea  what  we  are  watching.  &quot;Boys?&quot;  our  mother  calls  from  the  kitchen.  I  can,  with  my  new  ears,  hear  her  slap  hamburger  into  patties.  &quot;Set  the  table  like  good  citizens,&quot;  she  calls.  &quot;O.K.,  Ma,&quot;  Carlton  replies,  in  a  gorgeous  imitation  of  normality.  Our  father  hammers  in  the  basement.  I  can  feel  Carlton's  heart  ticking.  He  pats  my  hand,  to  assure  me  that  everything's  perfect.  We  set  the  table,  fork  knife  spoon,  paper  napkins  triangled  to  one  side.  We  know  the  moves  cold.  After  we  are  done  I  pause  to  notice  the  dining,  room  wallpaper:  a  golden  farm,  backed  by  mountains.  Cows  graze,  autumn  trees  cast  golden  shade.  This  scene  re-  peats  itself  three  times,  on  three  walls.  &quot;Zap,&quot;  Carlton  whispers.  &quot;Zzzz-  zoom.&quot;  &quot;Did  we  do  it  right?&quot;  I  ask  him.  &quot;We  did  everything  perfect,  little  son.  How  are  you  doing  in  there,  any-  way?&quot;  He  raps  lightly  on  my  head.  &quot;Perfect,  I  guess.&quot;  I  am  staring  at  the  wallpaper  as  if  I  were  thinking  of  stepping  into  it.  &quot;You  guess.  You  guess?  You  and  I  are  going  to  other  planets,  man.  Come  over  here.&quot;  &quot;Where?&quot;  &quot;Here.  Come  here.&quot;  He  leads  me  to  the  window.  Outside  snow  skitters  under  the  street  lamps.  Ranch-style  houses  hoard  their  warmth  but  bleed  light  into  the  gathering  snow.  &quot;You  and  I  are  going  to  fly,  man,&quot;  Carlton  whispers,  close  to  my  ear.  He  opens  the  window.  Snow  blows  in,  sparking  on  the  carpet.  &quot;Fly,&quot;  he  says,  and  we  do.  For  a  moment  we  strain  up and  out,  the  black  night  wind  blowing  in  our  faces-we  raise  ourselves  up  off  the  cocoa-colored  deep-pile  wool-and-  polyester  carpet  by  a  sliver  of  an  inch.  I  swear  it  tothis  day.  Sweet  glory.  The  secret  of  flight  is  this:  You  have  to  do  it  immediately,  before  your  body  realizes  it  is  defying  the  laws.  We  both  know  we  have  taken  mo-  mentary  leave  of  the  earth.  It  does  not  strike  either  of  us  as  remarkable,  any  more  than  does  the  fact  that  air-  planes  sometimes  fall  from  the  sky,  or  that  we  have  always  lived  in  [REDACTED]  and  will  soon  leave  for  a  new  nation.  We  settle  back  down.  Carlton  touches  my  shoulder.  &quot;You  wait,  Frisco,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Mira-  cles  are  happening.  Goddam  miracles.&quot;  I  nod.  He  pulls  down  the  window,  which  reseals  itself  with  asucking  sound.  Our  own  faces  look  back  at  us  from  the  cold,  dark  glass.  Behind  us,  our  mother  drops  the  hamburgers  into  the  skillet.  Our  father  bends  to  his  work  under  a  hooded  light  bulb,  pre-  paring  the  long  box  into  which  he  will  lay  clockwork,  pendulum,  a  face.  A  plane  drones  by  overhead,  invisible  in  the  clouds.  I  glance  nervously  at  Carl-  ton.  He  smiles  his  assurance  and  squeezes  the  back  of  my  neck.  MARCH.  After  the  thaw.  I  am  walking  through  the  cemetery,  thinking  about  my  endless  life.  One  of  " b"   the  beauties  of  living  in  [REDACTED]  is  that  any  direction  feels  like  prog-  ress.  I've  memorized  the  map.  We  are  by  my  calculations  three  hun-  dred  and  fifty  miles  shy  of  Woodstock,  New  York.  On  this  raw  new  day  I  am  walking  east,  to  the  place  where  Carl-  ton  and  I  keep  our  bot-  tle.  I  am  going  to  have  an  early  nip,  to  celebrate  my  bright  future.  When  I  get  to  our  spot  I  hear  low  moans  coming  from  behind  the  tomb.  I  freeze,  consid-  ering  my  options.  The  sound  is  a  long,  drawn-out  agony  with  a  whip  at  the  end,  a  fi-  nal  high  C,  something  like  &quot;0000000w.&quot;  A  wolf's  cry  run  backward.  What  decides  me  on  investigation  rather  than  flight  is  the  need  to  create  a  story.  In  the  stories  Carlton  likes  best,  people  always  do  the  foolish,  risky  thing.  I  find  I  can  reach  deci-  sions  this  way-by  thinking  of  myself  asa  character  in  a  story  told  by  Carlton.  I  creep  around  the  side  of  the  monu-  ment,  cautious  as  a  badger,  pressed  up  close  to  the  marble.  I  peer  over  a  cherub's  girlish  shoulder.  What  I  find  is  Carlton  on  the  ground  with  his  girl-  friend,  in  a  jumble  of  clothes  and  bare  flesh.  Carlton's  jacket,  the  onewith  the  embroidered  eye,  is  draped  over  the  stone,  keeping  watch.  I  hunch  behind  the  statue.  I  can  see  the  girl's  naked  arms,  and  the  familiar  bones  of  Carlton's  spine.  The  two  of  them  moan  together  in  the  brown  win-  ter  grass.  Though  I  can't  make  out  the  girl's  expression,  Carlton's  face  is  twisted  and  grimacing,  the  cords  of  his  neck  pulled  tight.  I  had  never  thought  the  experience  might  be  painful.  I  watch,  trying  to  learn.  I  holdonto  the  cherub's  cold  wings.  It  isn't  long  before  Carlton  catches  sight  of  me.His  eyes  rove  briefly,  ec-  statically  skyward,  and  what  do  they  light  on  but  his  brother's  small  head,     sticking  up  next  to  a  cherub's.  We  lock  eyes  and  spend  a  moment  in  mutual  decision.  The  girl  keeps  on  clutching  at  Carlton's  skinny  back.  He  decides  to  smile  at  me.  He  decides  to  wink.  I  am  out  of  there  so  fast  I  tear  up  divots.  I  dodge  among  the  stones,  jump  the  gully,  clear  the  fence  into  the  swing-set-and-picnic-table  sanctity  of  the  back  yard.  Something  about  that  wink.  My  heart  beats  fast  as  a  spar-  rows.  I  go  into  the  kitchen  and  find  our  mother  washing  fruit.  She  asks  what's  going  on.  I  tell  her  nothing  is.  Noth-  ing  at  all.  She  sighs  over  an  apple's  imperfec-  tion.  The  curtains  sport  blue  teapots.  Our  mother  works  the  apple  with  a  scrub  brush.  She  believes  they  come  coated  with  poison.  &quot;Where's  Carlton?&quot;  she  asks.  &quot;Don't  know,&quot;  I  tell  her.  &quot;Bobby?&quot;  \xe2\x80\x98(Huh?,\xe2\x80\x99  &quot;What  exactly  is  going  on&quot;&quot;  &quot;Nothing,&quot;  I  say.  My  heart  works  itself  up  to  a  hummingbird's  rate,  more  buzz  than  beat.   &quot;I  think  something  is.  Will  you  answer  a  question?&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cO'K.\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;Is  your  brother  taking  drugs?&quot;  I  relax  a  bit.  It's  only  drugs.  I  know  why  she  is  asking.  Lately  police  cars  have  been  cruising  past  our  house  like  sharks.  They  pause,  take  note,  glide  on.  Some  neighborhood  crackdown.  Carlton  is  famous  inthese  parts.  &quot;No,&quot;  I  tell  her.  She  faces  me  with  the  brush  in  one  hand,  an  apple  in  the  other.  &quot;You  wouldn't  lie  to  me,  would  you?&quot;&quot;  She  knows  something  is  up.  Her  nerves  run  through  this  house.  She  can  feel  dust  settling  on  the  tabletops,  milk  starting  to  turn  in  the  refrigerator.  &quot;No,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;Something's  going  on,&quot;  she  sighs.  She  is  a  small,  efficient  woman  who  looks  at  things  as  if  they  gave  off  a  painful  light.  She  grew  up  on  a  farm  in  [REDACTED]  and  spent  her  girlhood  ty-  ing  up  bean  rows,  worrying  over  the  sun  and  rain.  She  is  still  trying  to  overcome  her  habit  of  modest  expecta-  tions.  I  leave  the  kitchen,  pretending  sud-  " b"den  interest  in  the  cat.  Our  mother  follows,  holding  her  brush.  She  means  to  scrub  the  truth  out  of  me.  I  follow  the  cat,  his  erect  black  tail  and  pink  anus.  &quot;Don't  walk  away  when  I'm  talking  to  you,&quot;  our  mother  says.  I  keep  walking,  to  see  how  far  I'll  get,  calling  &quot;Kittykittykitty.&quot;  In  the  front  hall,  our  father's  homemade  clock  chimes  the  half-hour.  I  make  for  the  clock.  I  get  as  far  as  the  rubber  plant  before  she  collars  me.  &quot;I  told  you  not  to  walk  away,&quot;  she  says,  and  cuffs  me  a  good  one  with  the  brush.  She  catches  me  on  the  ear  and  sets  it  ringing.  The  cat  is  out  of  there  quick  as  a  quarter  note.  I  stand  for  a  minute,  to  let  her  know  I've  received  the  message.  Then  I  re-  sume  walking.  She  hits  me  again,  this  time  on  the  back  of  the  head,  hard  enough  to  make  me  see  colors.  &quot;Will  you  stop?&quot;she  screams.  Still,  I  keep  walking.  Our  house  runs  west  to  east.  With  every  step  I  get  closer  to  Yas-  gur's  farm.  ARLTON  comes  home  whistling.  Our  mother  treats  him  like  a  guest  who's  overstayed.  He  doesn't  care.  He  is  lost  in  optimism.  He  pats  her  cheek  and  calls  her  &quot;Professor.&quot;  He  treats  her  as  if  she  were  harmless,  and  so  she  is.  She  never  hits  Carlton.  She  suffers  him  the  way  farm  girls  suffer  a  thiev-  ing  crow,  with  a  grudge  so  old  it  borders  on  reverence.  She  gives  him  a  scrubbed  apple  and  tells  him  what  she'll  do  if  he  tracks  mud  on  the  car-  pet.  I  am  waiting  in  our  room.  He  brings  the  smell  of  the  cemetery  with  him-  its  old  snow  and  wet  pine  needles.  He  rolls  his  eyes  at  me,  takes  a  crunch  of  his  apple.  &quot;What's  happening,  Fris-  co?&quot;  he  says.  I  have  arranged  myself  loosely  on  my  bed,  trying  to  pull  a  Dylan  riff  out  of  my  harmonica.  I  have  always  fig-  ured  I  can  bluff  my  way  into  wisdom.  I  offer  Carlton  a  dignified  nod.  He  drops  onto  his  own  bed.  I  can  see  a  crushed  crocus  stuck  to  the  black  rubber  sole  of  his  boot.  &quot;Well,  Frisco,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Today  you  are  a  man.&quot;  I  nod  again.  Is  that  all  there  is  to  it?  &quot;Yow,&quot;  Carlton  says.  He  laughs,  pleased  with  himself  and  the  world.  &quot;'That  was  so  perfect.&quot;  I  pick  out  what  I  can  of  &quot;Blowin'  in  the  Wind.&quot;  Carlton  says,  &quot;Man,  when  I  saw  you  out  there  spying  on  us  I  thought  to  myself,  Yes.  Now  I'm  really  here.  You  know  what  I'm  saying?&quot;  He  waves  his  apple  core.  &quot;Uh-huh,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;Frisco,  that  was  the  first  time  her  and  I  ever  did  it.  I  mean,  we'd  talked.  But  when  we  finally  got  down  to  it,  there  you  were.  My  brother.  Like  you  knew.&quot;  I  nod,  and  this  time  for  real.  W  hat  happened  was  an  adventure  we  had  together.  All  right.  The  story  is  begin-  ning  to  make  sense.  &quot;Aw,  Frisco,&quot;  Carlton  says.  &quot;I'm  gonna  find  you  a  girl,  too.  You're  nine.  You  been  a  virgintoo  long.&quot;  &quot;Really?&quot;  I  say.  &quot;M  an.  We'll  find  you  a  woman  from  the  sixth  grade,  somebody  with  a  little  experience.  We'll  get  stoned  and  all  make  out  under  the  trees  in  the  boneyard.  I  want  to  be  present  at  your  deflowering,  man.  You're  gonna  need  a  brother  there.&quot;  I  am  about  to  ask,  as  casually  as  I  can  manage,  about  the  relationship  be-  tween  love  and  bodily  pain,  when  our  mother's  voice  cuts  into  the  room.  &quot;You  did  it,&quot;  she  screams.  &quot;You  tracked  mud  all  over  the  rug.&quot;  A  family  entanglement  follows.  Our  mother  brings  our  father,  who  comes  and  stands  in  the  doorway  with  her,  taking  in  evidence.  He  is  a  formerly  handsome  man.  His  face  has  been  worn  down  by  too  much  patience.  He  has  lately  taken  up  some  sporty  touches-a  goatee,  a  pair  of  calfskin  boots.  Our  mother  points  out  the  trail  of  muddy  half-moons  that  lead  from  the  door  to  Carlton's  bed.  Dangling  over  the  end  of  the  bed  are  the  culprits  themselves,  voluptuously  muddy,  with  Carlton's  criminal  feet  still  in  them.  " b"&quot;You  see?&quot;  she  says.  &quot;'You  see  what  he  thinks  of  me?&quot;  Our  father,  a  reasonable  man,  sug-  gests  that  Carlton  clean  it  up.  Our  mother  finds  that  too  small  a  gesture.  She  wants  Carlton  not  to  have  done  it  in  the  first  place.  &quot;I  don't  ask  for  much,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;I  don't  ask  where  he  goes.  I  don't  ask  why  the  police  are  suddenly  so  interested  in  our  house.  I  ask  that  he  not  track  mud  all  over  the  floor.  That's  all.&quot;  She  squints  in  the  glare  of  her  own  outrage.  &quot;Better  clean  it  right  up,&quot;  our  father  says  to  Carlton.  &quot;And  that'sit'&quot;  our  mother  says.  &quot;He  cleans  up  the  mess,  and  all's  for-  given?&quot;  &quot;Well,  what  do  you  want  him  to  do?  Lick  it  up?&quot;  &quot;I  want  some  consideration,&quot;  she  says,  turning  helplessly  to  me.  &quot;'That's  what  I  want.&quot;  I  shrug,  at  a  loss.  I  sympathize  with  our  mother  but  am  not  on  her  team.  &quot;All  right,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;I  just  won't  bothercleaning  the  house  anymore.  I'll  let  you  men  handle  it.  I'll  sit  and  watch  television  and  throw  my  candy  wrap-  pers  on  the  floor.&quot;  She  starts  out,  cutting  the  air  like  a  blade.  On  her  way  she  picks  up  a  jar  of  pencils,  looks  at  it,  and  tosses  the  pen-  cils  on  the  floor.  They  fall  like  fortune-  telling  sticks,  in  pairs  and  crisscrosses.  Our  father  goes  after  her,  calling  her  name.  Her  name  is  Isabel.  We  can  hear  them  making  their  way  across  the  house,  our  father  calling&quot;Isabel,Isa-  bel,  Isabel,&quot;  while  our  mother,  pleased  with  the  way  the  pencils  looked,  dumps  more  things  onto  the  floor.  &quot;I  hope  she  doesn't  break  the  TV,&quot;  Isay.  &quot;She'll  do  what  she  needs  to  do,&quot;  Carlton  tells  me.  &quot;I  hate  her,&quot;  I  say.  I  am  not  certain  about  that.  I  want  to  test  the  sound  of  it,  to  see  if  it's  true.  &quot;She's  got  more  balls  than  any  of  us,  Frisco,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Better  watch  what  you  say  about  her.&quot;  I  keep  quiet.  Soon  I  get  up  and  start  gathering  pencils,  because  I  preferthat  to  lying  around  trying  to  follow  the  shifting  lines  of  allegiance.  Carlton  goes  for  a  sponge  and  starts  in  on  the  mud.  &quot;You  get  shit  on  the  carpet,  you  clean  it  up,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Simple.&quot; The  time  for  all  my  questions  about  love  has  passed,  and  I  am  not  so  unhip  asto  force  a  subject.  I  know  it  will  come  up  again.  I  make  a  neat  bouquet  of  pencils.  Our  mother  rages  through  the  house.  Later,  after  she  has  thrown  enough  and  we  three  have  picked  it  all  up,  I  lie  on  my  bed  thinking  things  over.  Carl-  ton  is  on  the  phone  to  his  girlfriend,  talking  low.  Our  mother,  becalmed  but  still  dangerous,cooks  dinner.  She  sings  as  she  cooks,  some  slow  forties  number  that  must  have  been  all  over  the  jukes  when  her  first  husband's  plane  went  down  in  the  [REDACTED].  Our  father  plays  his  clarinet  in  the  basement.  That  is  where  he  goes  topractice,  down  among  his  woodworking  tools,  the  neatly  hung  hammers  and  awls  that  throw  oversized  shadows  in  the  light  of  the  single  bulb.  If  I  put  my  ear  to  the  floor  I  can  hear  him,  pulling  a  long,  low  tomcat  moan  out  of  that  horn.  There  is  some  strange  comfort  in  pressing  my  ear  to  the  carpet  and  hearing  our  fa-  ther's  music  leaking  up  through  the  floorboards.  Lying  down,  with  my  ear  to  the  floor,  I  join  in  on  my  harmonica.  THAT  spring  our  parents  have  a  party  to  celebrate  the  sun's  re-  turn.  It  has  been  a  long,  bitter  winter,  and  now  the  first  wild  daisies  are  pok-  ing  up  on  the  lawns  and  among  the  graves.  Our  parents'  parties  are  mannerly  affairs.  Their  friends,  schoolteachers  all,  bring  wine  jugs  and  guitars.  They  are  [REDACTED]  hip.  Though  they  hold  jobs  and  meet  mortgages,  they  think  of  themselves  as  independent  spirits  on  a  " b"spying  mission.  They  have  agreed  to  impersonate  teachers  until  they  write  their  novels,  finish  their  dissertations,  or  just  save  up  enough  money  to  set  themselves  free.  Carlton  and  I  are  the  lackeys.  We  take  coats,  fetchdrinks.  We  have  done  this  at  every  party  since  we  were  small,  trading  on  our  precocity,  doing  a  brother  act.  We  know  the  moves.  A  big,  lipsticked  woman  who  has  devoted  her  maidenhood  to  ninth-grade  math  calls  me  Mr.  Right.  An  assistant  vice-  principal  in  a  Russian  fur  hat  asks  us  both  whether  we  expect  to  vote  Demo-  cratic  or  Socialist.  By  sneaking  sips  I  manage  to  get  myself  semi-crocked.  The  reliability  of  the  evening  is  derailed  halfway  through,  however,  by  a  half-dozen  of  Carlton's  friends.  They  rap  on  the  door  and  I  go  for  it,  anxious  as  a  carnival  sharp  to  see  who  will  step  up  next  and  swallow  the  illusion  that  I'm  a  kindly,  sober  nine-  year-old  child.  I'm  expecting  callow  adults,  and  what  do  I  find  but  a  pack  of  young  outlaws,  big-booted  and  wild-  haired.  Carlton's  girlfriend  stands  in  front,  in  an  outfit  made  up  almost  en-  tirely  of  fringe.  &quot;Hi,  Bobby,&quot;  she  says  confidently.  She  comes  from  New  York,  and  is  more  than  just  locally  smart.  &quot;Hi,&quot;  I  say.  I  let  them  all  in  despite  a  retrograde  urge  to  lock  the  door  and  phone  the  police.  Three  are  girls,  four  boys.  They  pass  me  in  a  cloud  of  dope  smoke  and  sly-eyed  greeting.  What  they  do  is  invade  the  party.  Carlton  is  standing  on  the  far  side  of  the  rumpus  room,  picking  the  next  album,  and  his  girl  cuts  straight  through  the  crowd  to  his  side.  She  has  the  bones  and  the  loose,  liquid  moves  some  peopleconsider  beautiful.  She  walks  through  that  room  as  if  she'd  been  sent  to  teach  the  whole  party  a  lesson.  Carlton's  face  tips  me  off  that  this  was  planned.  Our  mother  demands  to  know  what's  going  on  here.  She  is  wearing  along,  dark-red  dress  that  doesn't  interfere  with  her  shoulders.  When  she  dresses  up,  you  can  see  what  it  is  about  her,  or  what  it  was.  She  is  the  source  of  Carlton's  beauty.  I  have  our  father's  face.  Carlton  does  some  quick  talking.  Though  it  is  against  our  mother's  bet-  ter  judgment,  the  invaders  are  suffered   to  stay.  One  of  them,  an  Eddie  Haskell  for  all  his  leather  and  hair,  tells  her  she  is  looking  good.  She  is  willing  to  hear  it.  So  the  outlaws,  house-sanctioned,  start  to  mingle.  I  work  my  way  over  to  Carlton's  side,  the  side  unoccupied  by  his  girlfriend.  I  would  like  to  say  some-  thing  ironic  and  wised-up,  something  that  will  band  Carlton  and  me  against  every  other  person  in  the  room.  I  can  feel  the  shape  of  the  comment  I  have  in  mind  but,  being  a  tipsy  nine-year-old,  can't  get  my  mouth  around  it.  What  I  say  is  &quot;Shit,  man.&quot;  Carlton's  girl  laughs.  I  would  like  to  tell  her  what  I  have  figured  out  about  her,  but  I  am  nine,  and  three-quar-  ters  gone  on  'Tom  Collinses.  Even  sober,  I  can  only  imagine  a  sharp-  tongued  wit.  &quot;Hang  on,  Frisco,&quot;  Carlton  tells  me.  &quot;This  could  turn  into  a  real  party.&quot;  I  can  tell  by  the  light  in  his  eyes  what  is  going  down.  He  has  arranged  a  blind  date  between  our  parents'  friends  and  his  own.  It's  a  Woodstock  move-  he  is  plotting  a  future  in  which  young  and  old  have  business  together.  I  agree  to  hang  on,  and  go  to  the  kitchen,  hoping  to  sneak  a  few  knocks  of  gin.  There  I  find  our  father  leaning  up  against  the  refrigerator.  A  line  of  but-  terfly-shaped  magnets  hovers  around  his  head.  &quot;Are  you  enjoying  this  party?&quot;  he  asks,  touching  his  goatee.  He  is  still  getting  used  to  being  a  man  with  a  beard.  &quot;Uh-huh.&quot;  &quot;I  am,  too,&quot;  he  says  sadly.  He  never  meant  to  be  a  high-school  music  teacher.  The  money  question  caught  up  with  him.  &quot;What  do  you  think  of  this  music?&quot;  he  asks.  Carlton  hasput  the  Stones  on  the  turntable.  Mick  Jagger  sings  &quot;19th  Nervous  Breakdown.&quot;  Our  father  gestures  in  an  openhanded  way  that  takes  in  the  room,  the  party,  the  whole  house-everything  the  music  touches.  &quot;I  like  it,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;So  do  I.&quot;  He  stirs  his  drink  with  his  finger,  and  sucks  on  the  finger.  &quot;I  love  it,&quot;  I  say,  too  loud.  Some-  thing  about  our  father  leads  me  to  raise  my  voice.  I  want  to  grab  handfuls  of  " b"  music  out  of  the  air  and  stuff  them  into  my  mouth.  &quot;I'm  not  sure  I  could  say  I  love  it,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;I'm  not  sure  if  I  could  say  that,  no.  I  would  say  I'm  friendly  to  its  intentions.  I  would  say  that  if  this  is  the  direction  music  is  going  in,  I  won't  stand  in  its  way.&quot;  &quot;Uh-huh,&quot;  I  say.  I  am  already  anx-  ious  to  get  back  to  the  party  but  don't  want  to  hurt  his  feelings.  If  he  senses  he's  being  avoided,  he  can  fall  into  fits  of  apology  more  terrifying  than  our  mother's  rages.  &quot;I  think  I  may  havebeen  too  rigid  with  my  students,&quot;  our  father  says.  &quot;Maybe  over  the  summer  you  boys  could  teach  me  a  few  things  about  the  music  young  people  are  listening  to  these  days.&quot;  &quot;Sure,&quot;  I  say,  loudly.  We  spend  a  minute  waiting  for  the  next  thing  to  say.  &quot;You  boys  are  happy,  aren't  you&quot;&quot;  he  asks.  &quot;Are  you  enjoying  this  party?&quot;  &quot;We're  having  a  great  time,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;I  thought  you  were.  I  am,  too.&quot;  I  have  by  this  time  gotten  myself  to  within  jumping  distance  of  the  door.  I   call  out,  &quot;Well,  goodbye,&quot;  and  dive  back  into  the  party.  Something  has  happened  in  my  ab-  sence.  The  party  has  started  to  roll.  Call  it  an  accident  of  history  and  the  weather.  Carlton's  friends  are  on  de-  cent  behavior,  and  our  parents'  friends  have  decided  to  give  up  some  of  their  wine-and-folk-song  propriety  to  see  what  they  can  learn.  Carlton  is  danc-  ing  with  a  vice-principal's  wife.  Carl-  ton's  friend  Frank,  with  his  ancient,  child  face  and  [REDACTED]  in  the  low  sixties,  dances  with  our  mother.  I  see  that  our  father  has  followed  me  out  of  the  kitchen.  He  positions  himself  at  the  party's  edge;  I  leap  into  its  center.  I  invite  the  fuchsia-lipped  math  teacher  to  dance.  She  is  only  too  happy.  She  is  big  and  graceful  as  a  parade  float,  and  I  steer  her  effortlessly  out  into  the  middle  of  everything.  My  mother,  who  is  known  around  school  for  Sicilian  disci-  pline,  dances  freely,  which  is  news  to  everybody.  There  is  no  getting  around  her  beauty.  The  night  rises  higher  and  higher.  A  wildness  sets  in.  Carlton  throws  new  music  on  the  turntable-Janis  Joplin, the  Doors,  the  Dead.  The  future  shines  for  everyone,  rich  with  the  pos-  sibility  of  more  nights  exactly  like  this.  Even  our  father  is  pressed  into  danc-  ing,  which  he  does  like  a  flightless  bird,  all  flapping  arms  and  potbelly.  Still,  he  dances.  Our  mother  has  a  kiss  for  him.  Finally  I  nod  out  on  the  sofa,  blissful  under  the  drinks.  I  am  dreaming  of  flight  when  our  mother  comes  and  touches  my  shoulder.  I  smile  up  into  her  flushed,  smiling  face.  &quot;It's  hours  past  your  bedtime,&quot;  she  says,  all  velvet  motherliness.  I  nod.  I  can't  dispute  the  fact.  She  keeps  on  nudging  my  shoulder.  I  am  a  moment  or  two  apprehending  the  fact  that  she  actually  wants  me  to  leave  the  party  and  go  to  bed.  &quot;No,&quot;  I  tell  her.  'Yes,&quot;  she  smiles.  &quot;No,&quot;  I  say  cordially,  experimen-  tally.  This  new  mother  can  dance,  and  flirt.  Who  knows  what  else  she  might  allow?  &quot;Yes.&quot;  The  velvet  motherliness  leaves  her  voice.  She  means  business,  business  of  the  usual  kind.  I  get  myself  off  the  sofa  and  I  run  to  Carlton  for  protection.  He  is  laughing  with  his  girl,  a  sweaty  question  mark  of  hair  plastered  to  his  forehead.  I  plow  into  him  so  hard  he  nearly  goes  over.  &quot;Whoa,  Frisco,&quot;  he  says.  He  takes  me  up  under  the  arms  and  swings  me  a  half  turn.  Our  mother  plucks  me  out  of  his  hands  and  sets  me  down,  with  a  good,  farm-style  hold  on  the  back  of  my  neck.  &quot;Say  good  night,  Bobby,&quot;  she  says.  She  adds,  for  the  benefit  of  Carlton's  girl,  &quot;He  should  have  been  in  bed  before  this  party  started.&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  I  holler.  I  try  to  twist  loose,  but  our  mother  has  a  grip  that  could  crack  walnuts.  Carlton's  girl  tosses  her  hair  and  says,  &quot;Good  night,  baby.&quot;  She  smiles  a  victor's  smile.  She  smooths  the  stray  hair  off  Carlton's  forehead.  &quot;No,&quot;  I  scream  again.  Something  about  the  way  she  touches  his  hair.  Our  mother  calls  our  father,  who  comes  and  scoops  me  up  and  starts  out  of  the  room  with  me,  holding  me  like  a  live  bomb.  Before  I  go,  I  lock  eyes  with  Carlton.  He  shrugs  and  says,  &quot;Night,  man.&quot;  Our  father  hustles  me  out.  I  do  not  take  it  bravely.  I  leave  flailing,  too  " b"furious  to  cry,  dribbling  a  thread  of  spittle.  Later  I  lie  alone  on  my  narrow  bed,  feeling  the  music  hum  in  the  coiled  springs.  Life  is  cracking  open  right  there  in  our  house.  People  are  chang-  ing.  By  tomorrow,  no  one  will  be  quite  the  same.  How  can  they  let  me  miss  it?  I  dream  up  revenge  against  our  par-  ents,  and  worse  for  Carlton.  He  is  the  one  who  could  have  saved  me.  He  could  have  bandedwith  me  against  them.  What  I  can't  forgive  is  his  shrug,  his  mild-eyed  &quot;Night,  man.&quot;  He  has  joined  the  adults.  He  has  made  himself  bigger  and  taken  size  from  me.  As  the  Doors  thump  &quot;Strange  Days,&quot;  I  hope  something  awful  happens  to  him.  I  say  so  to  myself.  Around  midnight,  dim-witted  Frank  announces  he  has  seen  a  flying  saucer  hovering  over  the  back  yard.  I  can  hear  his  deep,  excited  voice  all  the  way  in  my  room.  He  says  it  is  like  a  blinking,  luminous  cloud.  I  hear  half  the  party  struggling  out  through  the  sliding  glass  door  in  a  disorganized,   just  what  was  expected.  That  much  celebration  would  logically  attract  an  answering  happiness  from  across  the  stars.  I  get  out  of  bed  and  sneak  down  the  hall.  I  will  not  miss  alien  visitors  for  anyone,  not  even  at  the  cost  of  our  mother's  wrath  or  our  father's  disap-  pointment.  I  stop  at  the  end  of  the  hallway,  though,  embarrassed  to  be  in  pajamas.  If  there  really  are  aliens,  they  will  think  I  am  the  lowest  member  of  the  house.  While  I  hesitate  over  whether  to  go  back  to  my  room  to  change,  people  start  coming  back  in-  side,  talking  about  a  trick  of  the  mist  and  an  airplane.  People  resume  their  dancing.  Carlton  must  have  jumped  the  back  fence.  He  must  have  wanted  to  be  there  alone,singular,  in  case  they  decided  to  take  somebody  with  them.  A  few  nights  later  I  will  go  out  and  stand  where  he  would  have  been  standing.  On  the  far  side  of  the  gully,  now  a  river  swollen  with  melted  snow,  the  cemetery  will  gleam  like  a  lost  city.  The  moon  will  be  full.  I  will  hang  around  just  as  Carlton  must  have,  hyp-     notized  by  the  silver  light  on  the  stones,  the  white  angel  raising  her  arms  up  across  the  river.  According  to  our  parents  the  mys-  tery  is  why  heran  back  to  the  house  full  tilt.  Something  in  the  graveyard  may  have  scared  him,  he  may  have  needed  to  break  its  spell,  but  I  think  it's  more  likely  that  when  he  came  back  to  himself  he  just  couldn't  wait  to  return  to  the  music  and  the  people,  the  noisy  disorder  of  continuing  life.  Somebody  has  shut  the  sliding  glass  door.  Carlton's  girlfriend  looks  lazily  out,  touching  base  with  her  own  reflec-  tion.  I  look,  too.  Carlton  is  running  toward  the  house.  I  hesitate.  Then  I  figure  he  can  bump  his  nose.  It  will  be  a  good  joke  on  him.  I  let  him  keep  com-  ing.  His  girlfriend  sees  him  through  her  own  reflection,  starts  to  scream  a  warning  just  as  Carlton  hits  the  glass.  It  is  an  explosion.  Triangles  of  glass  fly  brightly  through  the  room.  I  think  that  for  him  it  must  be  more  surprising  than  painful,  like  hitting  water  from  a  great  height.  He  stands  blinking  for  a  moment.  T  he  whole  party  stops,  stares,  getting  its  bearings.  Bob  Dylan  sings  &quot;Just  Like  a  Woman.&quot;  Carlton  reaches  up  curi-  ously  to  take  out  the  shard  of  glass  that  is  stuck  in  his  neck,  and  that  is  when  the  blood  starts.  It  shoots  out  of  him.  Our  mother  screams.  Carlton  steps  forward  into  his  girl-  friend's  arms  and  the  two  of  them  fall  to-  gether.  Our  mother  throws  herself  down  on  top  of  him  and  the  girl.  People  shout  their  ac-  cident  wisdom.  Don't  lift  him.  Call  an  am-  bulance.  I  watch  from  the  hallway.  Carlton's  blood  spurts,  soaking  into  the  carpet,  spatter-  ing  people's  clothes.  Our  mother  and  father  both  try  to  plug  the  wound  with  their  hands,  but  the  blood  just  shoots  between  their  fingers.  Carlton  looks  more  puz-  zled  than  anything,  as  if  he  can't  quite  follow  this  turn  of  events.  &quot;It's  all  " b"   right,&quot;  our  father  tells  him,  trying  to  stop  theblood.  &quot;It's  all  right,  just  don't  move,  it's  all  right.&quot;  Carlton  nods,  and  holds  our  father's  hand.  His  eyes  take  on  an  astonished  light.  Our  mother  screams,  &quot;Is  anybody  doing  anything?&quot;  W  hat  comes  out  of  Carlton  grows  darker,  almost  black.  I  watch.  Our  father  tries  to  get  a  hold  on  Carl-  ton's  neck  while  Carlton  keeps  trying  to  take  his  hand.  Our  mother's  hair  is  matted  with  blood.  It  runs  down  her  face.  Carlton's  girl  holds  him  to  her  breasts,  touches  his  hair,  whispers  in  his  ear.  He  is  gone  by  the  time  the  ambulance  gets  there.  You  can  see  the  life  drain  out  of  him.  When  his  face  goes  slack  our  mother  wails.  A  part  of  her  flies  wailing  through  the  house,  where  it  will  wail  and  rage  forever.  I  feel  our  mother  pass  through  me  on  her  way  out.  She  covers  Carlton's  body  with  her  own  HE  is  buried  in  the  cemetery  out  back.  Years  have  passed-we  are  living  in  the  future,  and  it  has  turned  out  differently  from  what  we'd  planned.  Our  mother  has  established  her  life  of  separateness  behind  the  guest-room  door.  Our  father  mutters  his  greetings  to  the  door  as  he  passes.  One  April  night,  almost  a  year  to  the  day  after  Carlton's  accident,  I  hear  cautious  footsteps  shuffling  across  the  living-room  floor  after  midnight.  I  run  out  eagerly,  thinking  ofghosts,  but  find  only  our  father  in  moth-colored  pajamas.  He  looks  unsteadily  at  the  dark  air  in  front  of  him.  &quot;Hi,  Dad,&quot;  I  say  from  the  doorway.  He  looks  in  my  direction.  &quot;'Yes?&quot;  &quot;It's  me.  Bobby.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  Bobby,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;What  are  you  doing  up,  young  man?&quot;&quot;  &quot;Nothing,&quot;  I  tell  him.  &quot;Dad?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  son.&quot;  \xc2\xabMaybe  you  better  come  back  tobed.  O.K.?&quot;  \xc2\xab'Maybe  I  had,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;I  just  came  out  here  for  a  drink  of  water,  but  I  seem  to  have  gotten  turned  around  in  the  darkness.  Yes,  maybe  I  better  had.&quot;  I  take  his  hand  and  lead  him  down  the  hallto  his  room.  The  grandfather  clock  chimes  the  quarter-hour.  Sorry,&quot;  our  father  says.  I  get  him  intobed.  &quot;'There,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;O.K.?&quot;  &quot;Perfect.  Could  not  be  better.&quot;  &quot;O.K.  Good  night.&quot;  &quot;Good  night.  Bobby?&quot;  &quot;Uh-huh?&quot;  &quot;Why  don't  you  stay  a  minute?&quot;  he  says.  &quot;We  could  have  ourselves  a  talk,  you  and  me.  How  would  that  be?&quot;  &quot;O.K.,&quot;  I  say.  I  sit  on  the  edge  of  his  mattress.  His  bedside  clock  ticks  off  the  minutes.  I  can  hear  the  low  rasp  of  his  breath-  ing.  Around  our  house,  the  [REDACTED]  night  chirps  and  buzzes.  The  small  gray  finger  of  Carlton's  stone  pokes  up  among  the  others,  within  sight  of  the  angel's  white  eyes.  Above  us,  airplanes  and  satellites  sparkle.  People  are  flying  even  now  toward  New  York  or  Cali-  fornia,  to  take  up  lives  of  risk  and  invention.  I  stay  until  our  father  has  worked  his  way  into  a  muttering  sleep.  Carlton's  girlfriend  moved  to  Den-  ver  with  her  family  a  month  before.  I  never  learned  what  it  was  she'd  whis-  pered  to  him.  Though  she'd  kept  her  head  admirably  during  the  accident,  she  lost  it  afterward.  She  cried  so  hard  at  the  funeral  that  she  had  to  be  taken  away  by  her  mother-an  older,  redder-  haired  version  of  her.  She  started  see-  ing  a  psychiatrist  three  timesa  week.  Everyone,  including  my  parents,  talked  about  how  hard  it  was  for  her,  to  have  helda  dying  boy  in  her  arms  at  that  age.  I'm  grateful  to  her  for  holding  my  brother  while  he  died,  but  I  never  once  heard  her  mention  the  fact  that  though  she  had  been  through  something  terri-  ble,  at  least  she  was  still  alive  and  going  places.  At  least  she  had  protected  herself  by  trying  to  warn  him.  I  can  appreciate  the  intricacies  of  her  pain.  But  as  long  as  she  was  in  [REDACTED],  I  could  never  look  her  straight  in  the  face.  I  couldn't  talk  about  the  wounds  she  suffered.  I  can't  even  write  her  name. "