 b"She  liked  to  rub  a  leaf  between  her  fin-  gers  to  feel  its  velvety  textureor  ...  thrust  her  unstockinged  feet  into  streams  to  feel  the  pulsations  of  the  water.-From  abook  about  [REDACTED]  O'  Keeffe.  Prennv,  an  art  student  from  the  dairylands:  &quot;I  do  that.  I'll  rub  brittle  fall  leaves  until  they  crush  in  my  hand,  or  those  rubbery  thick  leaves  that  feel  good  to  squish.  With  furry  leaves  that  have  a  velvety  texture,  I  drift  them  across  my  face.  And-probably  a  painterly  thing-I  also  like  to  take  my  socks  off  and  put  my  feet  in  a  stream,  even  ifit  isn't  hot  out.  I  once  painted  a  picture  of  some  chicken  bones,  and  now  I'm  working  on  a  still-life  of  the  afghan  that  hangs  over  my  parents'  couch.  I'm  from  the  same  region  as  [REDACTED],  I  havelong  hair,  and  I  wear  basic  black.&quot;  He  didn't  care  much  for  appearances,  and  he  twiddled  his  hair.  As  a  young  boy,  he  had  been  stamped  a  slow  and  difficult  student.  He  was  absent-minded,  rude  to  his  family  on  occasion,  and  was  frequently  misunderstood.-CGommon  knowledge  about  Albert  Einstein.  HrerBERT,  a  bartender:  &quot;Word!  I  do  that  myself.  Sometimes  I  get  my  hair  into  a  total  frizz  from  twiddling  it-  not  that  I  care  what  it  looks  like.  Man,  though,  this  is  a  freak!  When  I  was  a  kid-slow  and  difficult,  on  every  report  card.  Einstein  absent-minded?  Get  this     one-the  other  day  I  completely  zoned  out  on  what  goes  in  a  Margarita.  I  could  not  remember  the  goddam  Triple  Sec.  'Scuse  the  French.  Oh,  yeah-  and  my  sis  is  occasionally  telling  me  I'm  rude  to  the  family.  And  very  often  customers  just  do  not  connect  to  what  I'm  saying.&quot;  He  was  a  bad  drinker,  and  once  she  hid  the  car  keys  so  he  couldn't  drive  anywhere  for  liquor.  So  he  gotthe  riding  lawnmower  and  drove  that  to  the  nearest  town  and  got  drunk.-Story  about  Tammy  and  George  Jones.  Grapy,  country-and-Western  sing-  er  at  a  local  tavern  on  Friday  nights:  &quot;My  wife  did  that  very  thing  to  me  and  I  stole  the  tractor,  but  it  had  a  blade  cutter  still  hooked  to  the  rear  of  it,  so  it's  pretty  much  the  same  thing.  My  name  starts  with  a  &quot;G,&quot;  and  my  wife's  name  is  Bonnie,  and  I  have  got  one  ugly  mug  on  me.  I'm  an  alcoholic-I  get  drunk  as  a  skunk  almost  every  other  day.  People  are  always  trying  to  get  me  to  quit  drinking.  The  wife  even  wants  me  to  go  to  A.A.  I  have  to  remind  her  that  it's  this  that  separates  me  from  being  your  average  balladeer.  George  is  a  legendary  drinker,  and  as  long  as  he  has  a  jigger  of  liquor  in  him  I'll  have  a  jigger  of  liquor  in  me.  Hell,  I  tell  her,  'I  probably  couldn't  even  make  people  cry  anymore  when  they  hear  me  sing  if  I  dried  out.'  And  then  I  tell  her  to  hush  up  or  I'll  leave  her  the  way  I  left  Tammy  .  ..I  mean  George  left  Tammy.&quot;  Not  everyone  loved  Amelia.-From  a  biography  of  Amelia  Earhart.  GrortA,  eerily  enough  an  airline  stewardess:  &quot;'That  describes  me  to  a  tee.  Only  a  week  ago  this  man  on  one  of  my  out-and-back  flights  told  me  he  liked  me  when  I  gave  him  a  free  drink.  And  from  that  very  same  flight  some  lady  wrote  a  letter  to  the  head  of  the  airline  complaining  that  not  everyone  had  loved  me-her  exact  words.  I  al-  ways  knew  I  was  more  than  your  aver-  age  stewardess.  If  the  pilot  has  a  heart  attack,  I  now  feel  secure  that  I  could  fly  the  plane  to  wherever.&quot;  He  said  that  if  he  ever  painted  some-  thing  that  seemed  derivative  of  anyone  else,  he'd  take  it  out  immediately.-Some-  one  paraphrasing  Jasper  Johns.  SHEREE,  CHARLES,  AND  VIDOR,  43616e616461Village  artists:  &quot;Ido  that.&quot;  &quot;I  do  that  all  the  time.&quot;  &quot;I  do  it,  too.&quot;  &quot;If  I  hadn't  taken  all  my  stuff  out  of  my  last  piece  that  looked  like  Jasper's  work,  I'd  swear  I  was  him.&quot;  &quot;I  have  a  demonic  expression.  Critics  always  call  Jasper  demonic-looking.&quot;  She  would  get  very  depressed.-Every-  one  who  knew  her,  on  SylviaPlath.  Verma,  English  teacher  by  day,  per-  formance  artist  by  night:  &quot;I  can't  find  reasons  to  wash  my  hair.  I  struggle  over  words  to  use  in  my  performances.  I  keep  a  thesaurus  at  hand.  Perfection  is  rarely  achieved;  this  makes  me  very  depressed.  I  don't  talk  to  people  for  days,  except  the  students  in  my  class  and  my  mother  on  weekends;  that  re-  ally  depresses  me.  Sylvia  and  Velma  are  the  same  name  poetically.  I  often  feel  as  though  I'm  going  to  die.I  can't  find  the  reason  for  many  things.&quot;  She  used  to  cry  at  sad  movies  and  when  she  read  sad  books.  She  used  to  cry  so  easily  that  once  she  even  cried  when  some  flowers  got  mowed  down.-Someone  talk-  ing  about  Marilyn  Monroe.  She's  the  deadliest  shopper  I've  ever  seen.-Kiss  lead  singer  on  Cher.  She  lovesdogs,  and  men  who  don't  beat  her.-Summary  of  Doris  Day's  biography.  LouIsE,  trust-fund  recipient:  &quot;I  cry  " b"     at  sad  movies  all  the  time.  Icried  for  days  over  'Poor  Little  Rich  Girl'-the  movie  and  the  book.  My  accountant  is  always  telling  me  to  curb  my  expenses.  He  says,  quote,  I  would  say  one  of  your  many  vices,  Louise,  is  the  way  you  spend  money,  unquote.  I'm  allergic  to  dogs,  but  I  love  pictures  of  dogs  and  I  have  dog  calendars  and  one  of  the  original  paintings  of  those  dogs  that  play  poker.  Needless  tosay,  I  most  especially  don't  like  men  who  beat  me.  I  had  a  prospective  suitor  beat  me  at  croquet  once,  and  I  neverspoke  to  him  again.  I  also  cried.&quot;  I've  always  thought  that  a  great  way  to  impel  oneself  to  diet  is  to  eat  a  few  meals  stark  naked.-Cristina  Ferrare  on  being  beautiful.  ProrBE,  aerobics  instructor:  &quot;Oh,  my  God!  I  simply  do  not  believe  it.  I  thought  I  was  the  only  person  on  earth  who  did  that.  My  God!  And  people  are  always  telling  me  I  shouldmodel.  The  first  time  I  ever  saw  her,  I  said,  'I  feel  a  familiarity  with  this  person.  Two  peas  in  a  pod.'  I  usually  start  eating  naked  in  front  of  the  mirror  about  five  pounds  over  my  ideal.  Cristina  and  I  probably  even  get  overweight  at  the  same  time.  If  I  called  her  at  this  very  minute  and  said  'A  hundred  and  fifteen  pounds,'  I  bet  she'd  know  exactly  what  I  meant-like  twin-speak.  Cristina  was  married  to  a  rich  man  who  de-  signed  cars.  I  was  married  to  a  guy  who  worked  at  a  body  shop  and  made  really  good  money.  Cristina's  weakness  is  pasta,  and  mine  is  mashed  potatoes.  I  bet  she  even  keepsa  wrinkle  diary.  Every  morning  when  I  get  up  I  count  all  the  wrinkles  on  my  face  and  body,  and  record  how  many  there  are  in  my  diary.  I  do  this  to  monitor  how  my  wrinkle  creams  are  working,  if  I'm  getting  too  stressed  or  too  much  sun,  etc.  Now  I'll  never  feel  weird  or  funny  about  anything  Ido.  Like  the  time  I  got  out  of  teaching  my  aerobics  class  by  telling  the  owner  of  the  health  club  that  my  whole  family  had  been  mass-  murdered.  Because  if  I'm  as  remarka-  ble  as  Cristina,  then  that  must  mean  she's  as  remarkable  as  me.&quot;"