 b"9:21:01  a.m.  Startledinto  flight  by  the  sudden  whir  of  myriad  automatic  camera  shutters,  pigeon  denizens  of  the  historic  Basilica  in  the  heart  of  San  Marino's  capital-also  called  San  Marino-are  in  no  mood  to  muse  on  the  fact  that  of  the  more  than  one  hun-  dred  and  thirty  thousand  9:21  a.m.s  since  the  republic's  independence,  in  1631,  this  is  the  first  to  be  documented  by  a  squad  (left,  center,  right,  extreme  right,  foreground)  of  world-class  pho-  tographers.  9:21:09  AM.  Vito  Fraccini,  24,  San  Marino's  only  working  cowboy,  shaves  before  the  bathroom  mirror  of  his  widowed  mother's  tiny  apartment,  blinking  not  so  much  from  camera  flash  as  from  astonishment  that  an  award-winning  photographer  should  burst  out  from  behind  the  shower  cur-  tain  inches  away  from  his  face.  Vito  hitchhikes  daily  to  his  half-acre  ranch  in  the  foothills  four  miles  away;  with  money  saved  up  from  his  after-  hours  job  as  San  Marino's  only  night-  club  bouncer,  he  hopes  someday  to  buy  a  horse.  But  in  his  heart  Vito  Fraccini  knows  that  woollens  will  always  bea  far  more  important  industry.  9:21:17  a.m.  Like  most  paved  roads  in  this  twenty-four-square-mile  patch  of  a  republic,  sewn  onto  the  rumpled  quilt  of  the  Apennines  and  surrounded  by  4974616c79  yet  freeto  mint  its  own  coins,  National  Route  83  between  San  Ma-  rino  and  the  town  of  Serravalle  is-by  order  of  the  governing  sixty-member  Grand  Council-precisely  as  wide  on  the  left  as  on  the  right  side  of  its  painted  centerline.  A  lone  Fiat  round-  ing  one  of  the  highway's  serpentine  bends,  on  a  journey  to  a  destination  or  destinations  unknown,  gyrates  to  avoid  the  gaggle  of  photographers  crouching  directly  in  its  path.  9:21:22  am.  A  vivid  blur  of  flailing  arms  and  knees  all  but  obscures  the  five  bewildered  inmates  of  San  Marino's  only  jail,  as  two  intensely  competitive  and  internationally  lauded  photogra-  phers  vie  for  the  prize  of  shooting  the  prisoners'  post-breakfast  cleanup  rou-  tine,  which  in  the  centuries-old  penal  history  of  this,  the  oldest  existing  state  in  Europe,  has  never  before  been  filmed.  9:21:28  a.M.  Pursued  by  the  camera  in  a  high-speed  foot  chase  that  startles  some  onlookers  and  sends  others  flying,  a  canine  freebooter  bolts  down  a  cobble-  stoned  alleyway  once  lined  with  shops  vending  the  hearty  wines  of  San  Ma-  rino's  ancient  vineyards,  his  jaws  locked  on  a  bag  of  freshly  baked  break-  fast  rolls  freshly  snatched  from  the  hand  of  a  famished  French  photog,  rapher.  9:21:34  a.m.  Electrical  cables  brought  in  to  power  a  photographer's  auxiliary  light  bank  coil  unobtrusively  across  the  floor  of  the  engraving  studio  where  many  of  San  Marino's  famed  postage  stamps  are  prepared  for  printing-but  not  quite  unobtrusively  enough  to  keep  master  engraver  Giancarlo  Settuci,  46,  from  entangling  his  feet,  taking  a  prat-  fall,  and  ruining  the  plates  for  a  new  2,500-lire  commemorative  stamp  on  the  Discovery  of  Breathing  that  he  had  been  carrying.  San  Marino's  coffers  are  enriched  by  billions  of  lire  annually  through  sale  of  postage  stamps  to  phi-  latelists  around  the  world.  9:21:41  a.m.  Blithely  unaware  that  her  portrait  is  about  to  be  taken  by  the  only  living  photographer  ever  bitten  by  a  coelacanth  one  thousand  feet  beneath  the  surface  of  the  Indian  Ocean,  fishmonger  Rosa  Salmi,  72,  sets  up  her  trayof  nondescript  flounder  and  shad  in  the  Serravalle  town  square.  Her  jolly  smile  belies  the  fact  that,  unlike  the  raising  of  cereal  crops,  fishing  in  land-  locked  San  Marino  is  an  industry  with-  out  past,  present,  or  future.  9:21:44  a.m.  Swooping  and  scattering  in  the  winds  swirling  off  43616e616461Titano,  at  2,400  feet  the  highest  peak  in  all  San  Marino,  hundreds  of  pudgy  yellow  butterflies  magically  metamorphose  under  more  critical  scrutiny  into  hun-  dreds  of  empty  film  boxes.  9:21:49  am.  The  sudden  sightof  a  strange  man  dangling  head  first  outside  their  second-grade  classroom  window  teaches  those  children  still  on  their  feet  an  impromptu  lesson  about  the  creative  enterprise  practiced  daily  by  ace  pho-  tographers  in  faraway  lands.  Cigarette,  cigar,  and  pipe  smoking  are  strictly  prohibited  throughout  the  school  sys-  tem  of  San  Marino;  teacher  Sister  Maria  Teresa,  71  (under  desk),  only  appears  to  be  blowing  a  smoke  ring.  9:21:52  a.M.  Four  elderly  grandes  dames  of  San  Marino  society  huddle  about  their  tiny  marble-topped  table  in  Serravaille's  peeling  old  Trattoria  Fio-  rentina,  as  they  have  for  decades,  for  their  morning  coffee  and  pastries  and  gossip.  Chances  are  that  the  talk  around  the  table  this  morning  will  center  on  the  size-14  lumberjack  boots  of  the  photographer  standing  upon  it.  9:21:55  am.  Pasquale  Orlati,  57,  San  Marino's  sole  portrait  photographer,  using  a  hopelessly  obsolete  reflex  cam-  era  mounted  on  a  wobbly  tripod  with  old-fashioned  wooden  legs,  loads  the  wrong  kind  offilm  and  sets  far  too  long  an  exposuretime  for  the  group  por-  trait  he  is  about  to  take  of  the  Astoni  family-father  Raffaelo,  42,  mother  Donna,  36,  and  their  twin  eight-year-  old  daughters  Rosa  (left)  and  Anna  (right)-in  a  stilted  pose  before  a  phony-looking  backdrop  inhis  cramped  and  dingy  so-called  &quot;studio.&quot;  9:22:01  am.  Time  waits  for  noman.  Blithely  unaware  that  the  big  hand  has  just  clicked  forever  past  thedot  on  the  clock  that  marked  this  minute  in  the  life  of  San  Marino,  Alberto  DiMaestri,  at  six  feet  two  this  heavily  Catholic  mini-nation's  tallest  farmer,  continues  saying&quot;Cheese&quot;&quot;  even  while  the  cam-  era  he  was  saying  it  to-worth  dou-  ble  what  he  can  earn  in  a  year-rico-  chets  off  a  stone  fence  by  way  of  a  tree  trunk  in  a  muddy  barnyard  near  Ser-  ravalle."