 b"LEARNING  to  type?  Not  easy,  right?  It  is  work  which  gives  flavor  to  life.  It  is  work  which  gives  flavor  to  life.  It  is  work  which  gives  flavor  to  life.  It  can't  be  easy,  with  the  letters  presented  to  you  shuffled  up  the  way  they  are.  Few  typing  instructors  will  concede  that  there's  any  disarray,  but  at  least  half  the  instruction  books  I've  seen  feature  practice  sentences  that  try  to  play  up  the  learner's  senseof  purpose  and  foster  a  feeling  of  order  where  there's  apparently  none.  Enid  is  in  her  room  putting  on  makeup.  Why  do  anything  to  those  delicate  features?  &quot;Because  it  takes  up  time,&quot;she  would  say  if  asked.  Enid  closes  her  bedroom  door  when  she  changes  her  clothes  but  leaves  it  ajar  when  she's  doing  her  face;  is  she  hoping  some  small  talk  might  reach  her  dainty  ears?  If  that's  so,  and  if  I  am  to  oblige,  I  have  to  keep  one  eye  on  the  keyboard,  one  eye  on  that  door.  Have  I  been  much  too  quiet  already?  It  must  be  so,  for  she's  starting  to  sing.  I've  been  across  this  country  clear  from  Bangor,  [REDACTED],  to  Frisco,  where  I  turned  around,  feet  on  the  ground,  and  headed  back  on  home  somehow  That's  a  good  song;  why  would  I  want  to  interrupt  it?'  Besides,  typing  requires  concentrated  practice.  Do  the  thing  and  you  have  still  the  power;  but  they  who  do  not  the  thing  have  not  the  power.  Soon  she  says,  &quot;Oh  you  want  more  floor  show?&quot;  When  Lady  Luck  would  treat  me  right,  I'dhit  some  town  on  a  Saturday  night,  and  rule  of  thumb  where  I  come  from  is  party  time  is  now.  I'm-  She  stops  making  up  in  her  oval  dresser  mirror  and  comes  out  to  look  in  the  full-lengthone. &quot;'T  hese  pants  are  too  .  ..  what  is  the  word,  Noonie?  Or  cats  got  tongue?&quot;  I  like  Enid,  and  I  like  just  about  anything  Enid  says  to  me,  and  I'djust  as  soon  hang  around  here  with  her  and  her  cats  asjust  about  anything,  maybe  anything.  Now,  to  talk  or  to  type?  If  you  would  not  be  forgotten,  as  soon  as  you  are  dead  and  rotten,  either  write  things  worth  reading  or  &quot;Unable  to  wear  THESE  pants  at  THIS  time,&quot;she  says,  and  walks  back  into  her  room  and  closes  the  door.  This  is  the  longest  I've  stayed  at  Enid's,  six  weeks  now.  The  sofa  here  is  certainly  comfortable;  I  prefer  it  to  the  bed  in  the  spare  room,  to  my  bed  back  home,  maybe  any  bed  anywhere.  Now  the  door  is  ajar  again.  I'm  a  girl  who  digs  a  chance  to  get  out  on  that  floor  and  dance  Her  room,  if  you  enter,  is  just  a  neat,  compartmentalized,  one-windowed  box  with  sections  for  books,  for  yard  goods,  for  notebooks,  for  keepsakes-but  the  first  thing  you  notice  is  the  background  odor,  which  is  of  perfume  mixed  with  stale  cigarette  smoke.  That  doesn't  sound  inviting,  but  you  might  not  turn  and  run.  I've  danced  in  the  east,  I've  danced  in  the  west,  and  the  thing  that  I  like  best  is  Enid  once  told  me  she  was  going  to  be  a  singer-that  was  when  one  of  her  husband's  friends,  who  instead  became  a  doctor,  was  going  to  be  a  songwriter.  Do  I  think  Enid  might  get  married  again?  Any  such  new  husband  would  certainly  want  the  sofa  cleared,  or  per-  haps  a  new,  less  comfortable  sofa,  and,  simultaneously,  the  cats  declawed.  That  would  all  be  too  bad,  but  what  do  I  have  to  do  with  it  outside  of  being  a  worrier  about  Enid?  Now  the  bedroom  door  is  opening  wide.  BOYS  who  do  the  BOP,  MAN,  they  never  STOP.  Give  'em  cut  time  and,  man,  they're  flying,  those  BOYS  who  do  the  BOP  Enid,  wearing  different  pants,  walks  from  her  room  toward  the  bathroom.  those  BOYS-Boys!  Boys!  Boys!  who  DO-do  do  do  do  do  do  the  BOP-Boys  who  bop!  I'm  no  help,  either.  On  Tuesday,  after  I  came  back  and  told  her  about  a  " b"girl  I  met  over  at  the  Peabody,  Enid  stopped  wearing  a  bra.  She  set  up  the  ironing  board  right  in  front  of  where  I  was  typing  and  started  ironing  with  her  shirt  mostly  open,  so  what  did  I  do  but  ask  how  come  she  usually  wears  a  bra.  She  said  something  about  gravity  and  time,  then  left  the  room,  and  when  she  came  back  she'd  buttoned  her  shirt  nearly  up  to  her  neck.  &quot;Hullo,  anybody  home?&quot;  Enid,  now  through  with  bedroom  and  bathroom,  says  to  me,  then  turns  her  at-  tention  to  one  of  the  cats.  ''What,  not  enough  litter  for  a  cute  thing  to  scratch?  We  call  Cat  Litter  King,  O.K.?&quot;  She  picks  up  the  cat  and  brings  its  face  to  hers  as  she  sits  by  the  phone  and  dials  the  King's  message  machine.  &quot;Greetings!  Enid  and  cats  on  Comm.  Ave.  wouldn't  mind  a  royal  vis-  it.  We  want  a  case  of  cat  food  thatsays  'Cat  Food.'  Not  without  labels,  not  cat-and-dog  food,  and  not  labelled  'Dog  Food'  that  you  say  is  cat  food.  One  hundred  pounds  of  litter  in  ten-  pound  bags,  not  two  fifties-what  do  you  think  we  are?  We're  home  late  tonight  and  all  tomorrow  night.  Sofis  prudent,  Your  Highness.&quot;  What  an  entertainer!  Enid  is  no  snob!  Enid  puts  down  the  phone  and  the  cat,  and  is  lost  to  me  for  a  few  minutes.  I  think  she  is  thinking  about  the  past,  which  is  something  I've  pretty  well  cultivated  out  of  myself,  thinking  about  the  past.  As  I  turn  off  the  typewriter,  Enid  looks  over  at  me  and  says,  &quot;Let's  go  here,  let's  go  there!  That's  the  thing  to  do,  right?&quot;     THERE  was  nothing  like  the  Cat  Litter  King  where  I  came  from;  there  were  also  things  in  [REDACTED]  I  couldn't  get  used  to.  Just  before  I  first  visited  Enid,  her  small  white  cat,  the  one  she  told  me  would  sleep  on  her  neck,  got  stolen  from  out  front  by  the  junkies  down  the  block.  &quot;Let's  go  get  it  back?&quot;  a  friend  of  hers  had  mocked  my  suggestion.  &quot;Noonie,  you  don't  go  confronting  addicts!&quot;  So  as  I  went  up  and  down  Commonwealth  Avenue  putting  up  Lost  Cat  signs  I  had  to  fill  my  mind  with  other  things,  like  memo-  rizing  the  alphabetically  ordered  cross  streets-[REDACTED],  Exeter,  [REDACTED]  or  Fairfield,  Gloucester;  that's  all  I  re-  member  now,  and  Exeter  Street's  easy,  because  that's  where  the  Exeter  Street  Theatre  is.  It  was  only  acouple  of  days  later  that  Enid  started  talking  about  my  getting  some  kind  ofjob,  though  fol-  lowing  right  up  with  how  after  she  moved  to  [REDACTED]  she'd  go  through  the  Help  Wanteds,  circle  all  the  interest-  ing  ones,  fold  the  newspaper  neatly  on  top  of  her  recycling  pile,  and  then  go  out  to  a  museum  or  two.  Once  Enid  did  get  me  something  part  time  at  Faneuil  HallMarketplace.  She  was  working  near  therethen,so  a  lot  of  times  we  got  to  have  lunch  together,  and  I  even  started  thinking  maybe  that's  why  she  got  me  the  job.  If  it  was  a  nice  day  and  I  got  off  early,  I  would  go  back  to  her  place  and  sleep  on  the  sofa  in  the  sun  with  the  cats.  On  days  I  wasn't  work-  ing,  I  would  walk  and  walk-one  day  I  didthe  whole  Freedom  Trail-or  just  turn  to  my  Old  List,  which  was  some  basic  things  that  had  looked  at  first  to  me  impossible  to  do  but  that  just  about  everybody  seemed  able  to  do,  like  skipping  rope,  riding  a  bike,  driving  a  car  (or,  asI  updated  the  list,  if  you  learned  onan  automatic,  then  driving  a  standard),  swimming,  and,  of  course,  typing.  (I  don't  have  a  New  List  but  do  keep  an  Auxiliary  one,  which  is  for  not-impossible-looking  things,  like  certain  dances.)  ENID  and  I  set  out  walking  and,  by  the  Charles  River,  Enid  lights  up  a  cigarette  and  tells  me  how  her  mother,  who  smokes,  too,  waits  until  everybody  at  their  house  has  gone  to  bed  and  then  goes  outside  on  the  patio  and  breathes  out,  all  the  way,  emptying  her  lungs-push  push  push-com-  pletely,  then  breathes  in  a  full  load  of  fresh  air,  and  then  forces  every  bit  out  again,  convinced  that  she's  cleaning  that  day's  smoking  out  of  her  lungs.  I  laugh  at  that,  really  laugh,  and  after  a  two-second  delay  Enid  laughs,  too.  I've  never  actually  met  Enid's  mother,  but  I  talked  to  her  on  the  phone  once  when  she  called  and  Enid  was  out.  She  knew  who  I  was  and  kept  calling  me  by  my  first  name,  again  and  again,  with  the  most  luxurious  " b"voice.  Enid  has  every  right  to  sound  like  that  but  doesn't.  Enid's  mother  wanted,  I  think,  to  ask  me  how  Enid  really  was,  and  I  wasn't  so  sure  of  my-  self  that  I  said  anything  that  would  make  her  worry,  but  I  didn't  try  to  make  her  not  worry,  either.  Here,  there;  and  from  the  Cam-  bridge  side  of  the  Charles,  up  by  M.I.T.,  Enid  points  out  the  narrow  eastern  faceof  the  new  Hancock  build-  ing  and  tells  me  that  it  reflects  the  sunrise  in  a  long  vertical  line,  and  that  the  western  end  does  the  same  at  sun-  set.  (You've  got  to  admire  the  Han-  cock,  though  it's  tall  and  modern,  and  modern  with  problems.  Try  looking  at  it  from  the  south  when  you're  way  down  on  Tremont,  or  from  the  north,  from  beside  theold  Hancock,  going  right  up  close.)  &quot;I  liked  it  in  plywood  and  I  like  it  now-windows  and  all,  as  long  as  nobody  gets  hurt,&quot;  Enid  says,  while  reaching  one  hand  over  her  head,  tracing  a  halo's  shape  with  her  finger,  around  and  around.  It  isn't  late  when  we  get  back  to  her  place,  but  Enid's  tired,  and  does  have  to  get  up  early  to  move  her  car  for  Friday  street-cleaning  before  going  to  work,  so  right  away  she  puts  on  that  white  cotton  nightdress  of  hers  and  gets  into  bed.  I  feel  bad  that  we've  developed  any  sort  of  routine  at  all,  Enid  and  I,  because  soon  I'm  probably  going  to  be  someplace  else,  and,  to  take  just  one  example,  who's  going  to  read  from  her  book,  that  scrapbook  of  stories  about  sleep  she's  put  together  in  her  more  than  thirty-one  years?  Every  evening  I've  been  reading  something  from  it  to  her  after  she  gets  into  bed.  It's  a  great  book-so  good  that  I've  had  all  three  hundred  and  sixty-six  oversize  pages  photocopied  to  take  with  me  when  I  go.  Tonight's  story  was  taken  from  the  autobiography  of  Ben-  jamin  Franklin:  3  ...  I  walked  again  up  the  street,  which  by  this  time  had  many  clean-dressed  people  in  it,  who  were  all  walking  the  same  way.  I  joined  them,  and  thereby  was  led  into  the  great  meeting-house  of  the  Quakers  near  the  market.  I  sat  down  among  them,  and,  after  looking  round  awhile  and  hearing  nothing  said,  being  very  drowsy  thro'  labor  and  want  of  rest  the  preceding  night,  I  fell  fast  asleep,  and  continued  so  till  the  meet-  ing  broke  up,  when  one  was  kind  enough  to  rouse  me.  This  was,  therefore,  the  first  house  I  was  in,  or  slept  in,  in  [REDACTED].  [REDACTED]?  I  only  have  to  hear  a  city's  name  and  I  start  to  get  ideas.   Actually,  I'd  kind  of  made  up  my  mind  to  try  New  York.  &quot;Enid?&quot;  &quot;What,  Noo?&quot;  &quot;Are  there  any  more  words  to  that  song?&quot;  &quot;There's  more  I  can't  remember  right  now.  I  think  I'm  asleep.&quot;  Before  I  leave  this  time  I'm  going  to  get  those  bop  lyrics  on  paper;  otherwise  I'll  have  to  write  to  wherever  she  is,  and  what  if  she  has  a  new  last  name?  &quot;Is  it  O.K.  if  I  stay  up  and  type?&quot;  &quot;S'all  right.  I  like  a  little  back-  evtotelt  RT  to  es  /)  &lt;     ground  noise  when  I  dream.&quot;  (Enid  really  doesn't  mind  it  when  I  stay  up  late  and  type.)  CURB  SERVICE  In  the  small  cities  of  South  [REDACTED]  one  does  not  have  to  send  to  the  store  for  a  container  of  milk.  The  milkman  walks  through  the  streets  with  his  supply,  stop-  ping  at  each  door  or  window,  where  the  customer  may  see  for  herself  that  it  is  fresh.  And  how  can  she  doubt  it  when  his  supply  is  kept  fresh  in  the  cow  that  accom-  panies  him?  IT  was  only  ten-thirty  and  I  still  wasn't  sleepy,  so  I  started  looking  through  the  cupboards  for  something  to  eat.  Next  to  three  boxes  of  Wheatena  and  behind  the  saltines  was  anopen  bag  of  Pepperidge  Farm  Tahiti  cook-  ies.  There  were  only  two  cookies  in  the  bag,  and  since  I  hate  to  eat  the  last  of  anything  when  there's  someone  else  who  might  come  snacking,  I  took  just  one  cookie.  Then,  maybe  because  I  was  alone  and  it  seemed  so  quiet,  I  got  out  a  pen  and  wrote  in  ink  on  the  bag,  &quot;Contains  One  Only-No  Good  if  You're  Hungry.&quot;  I  put  the  bag  back  on  the  shelf,  went  and  stretched  " b"out  on  the  sofa,  and  thought  some  more  about  Benjamin  Frank-  lin,  and  then  Thomas  Jefferson,  and  then  John  Hancock,  and  then  whether  or  not  I'd  kissed  Enidgood  night.  I  had,  but  it  was  the  kind  of  kiss  you  can't  expect  to  go  far,  a  kiss  without  plans.  O  all  that  was  a  Thursday  night.  Then  Friday,  then  Saturday,  then  Sunday;  then  Monday  I  left  for  New  York,  and  I  haven'tseen  Enid  since.  I  did  leave  her  my  P.O.-box  address  from  back  home,  because  I  wasn't  sure  where  I'd  end  up,  and  my  cousin  who  works  at  the  post  office  is  good  about  forwarding  things.  Using  that  system,  I've  received  three  communi-  cations  from  Enid,  three  in  five  years:  1.  In  a  puffy  envelope  mailed  not  long  after  I  left  [REDACTED]  was  the  empty  Pepperidge  Farm  cookie  bag,  with  an  &quot;N&quot;  added  to  my  note;  i.e.,  &quot;Contains  NOne  Only-No  Good  if  You're  Hungry.&quot;  2.  Several  months  after  that  I  re-  ceived  a  postcard  showing  the  lobby  of  a  hotel  in  aplace  like  Tahiti,  and  there,  among  other  words,  was  &quot;hon-  eymoon&quot;-not  as  in  &quot;Hoyle  Up-to-  Date,&quot;  not  honeymoon  bridge.  Enid  once  told  me  that  her  mother  used  to  tell  her,  &quot;'You  might  as  well  be  nice.&quot;  Even  with  that  I  couldn't  decide  whether  or  not  to  send  a  wedding  present,  which  is  to  say  I  didn't.  3.  Then  nothing  for  over  four  years  until  this  menu,  here  in  my  hand,  reached  me  earlier  today.  No  message,  but  each  dish  and  price  printed  in  Enid's  hand,  along  with  the  restaurant's  name,  and  its  address,  three  thousand  miles  away.  I  looked  at  the  menu  for  a  long  time,  and  did  think  of  writing  some-  thing  on  it  like  &quot;Menu  Only-No  Good  if  You're  Hungry&quot;  and  sending  it  back,  but  then  thought  better  of  it.  (Another  thing  I'd  been  cultivating  was  thinking  better  of  things.)  u  Milo  As  for  what  went  the  other  way,  once  in  a  while  I'd  sent  her  funny  newspaper  clippings  and  stuff,  but  ev-  ery  time  I  wrote  a  real  letter  I  knew  it  was  a  mistake  the  minute  I  dropped  it  into  thebig  blue  box.  And  telephones?  You  can't  get  them  to  work  right.  THAT\xe2\x80\x99S  still  a  great  song,  that  bop  one.  It's  a  good  thing  I  wrote  down  the  words  before  leaving,  but  just  getting  lyrics  on  paper  is  not  really  how  such  things  should  be  done.  The  way  to  make  a  song  yours  is  by  singing  it-right?  Some  how-to-do  book  must  say  that.  I  gave  my  typing  one  away,  because  learning  was  so  hard  for  me  I  began  to  feel  that  if  I  ever  got  good  at  it  it  would  be  while  getting  less  good  at  something  else.  Doing  all  right  in  New  York,  with  all  my  books  in  one  place  for  the  first  time  in  fourteen  years,  including  two  big  identical  dictionaries.  I  keep  one  at  each  end  of  my  apartment  so  there's  no  lugging  around.  I  turn  to  them  often.  \xc2\xab&quot;Menu&quot;  comes  from  the  French  for  &quot;detailed  list,&quot;  &quot;detailed&quot;  asin  &quot;small  and  detailed,&quot;  while  &quot;snob&quot;  has  no  accepted  etymological  origin-though  I've  heard  of  Latin  teachers  who  like  to   say  it's  short  for  &quot;Sine  NOBilitate,&quot;  &quot;without  nobility.&quot;  But  Enid  was  no  snob!  Enid's  sofa  was  comfortable,  yes,  but  on  that  Thursday  night  there  was  some  noise  from  the  street,  a  car  radio  playing  loud,  I  think,  so  I  moved  my  blankets  into  the  spare  room  in  back,  which  shared  a  wall  with  Enid's  and  was  its  mirror  image.  Unfortunately,  the  bed  there  was  much  too  soft,  and  I  still  couldn't  sleep.  I  started  wondering  if  there  was  any  part  of  a  moon  out  that  night,  and  if  the  long  narrow  ends  of  the  Hancock  ever  reflect  moonlight  in  a  line-if  not  when  the  moon  is  large  but  pale  on  the  rise,  then  maybe  when  it's  small  and  bright  in  the  sky.  A  little  while  later  I  heard  Enid  getup,  use  the  bathroom,  and,  I  thought,  go  back  to  bed.  A  few  more  minutes  passed  and  then,  from  outside  the  spare-room  win-  dow,  came  a  sound  that  should  have  made  me  think  of  death,or  birth,  but  even  before  I  got  up  to  look  I  knew  what  it  was:  Enid,  expelling  a  day's  intake  from  her  almost  thirty-two-  year-old  lungs,  cleansing  them  well  with  the  damp,  night-morning  air.  "