 b"A Quiz:  You've  got  a  terrible  A  cold.  Riding  home  on  the  bus,  you  feel  a  sneeze  coming  on.  As  you  reach  for  a  Kleenex,  you  notice  that  sitting  across  from  you  is  Richard  M.  Nixon,  the  only  556e6974656420537461746573n  Pres-  ident  ever  to  resign  from  office.  Do  you  still  cover  your  mouth?  At  a  dinner  party  you're  startled  to  find  him  on  your  right.  He  says,  &quot;Pass  the  Triscuits,  please.&quot;  What  do  you  do?  Remember:  the  entr\xc3\xa9e  will  be  veal  with  a  wonderful  Sauternes  sauce.  Seated  to  your  left  is  supermodel  Elle  MacPherson;  Mel  (Gibson  is  across  from  you.  They  both  find  you  wildly  appealing.  Stay  or  go?  He  appears  on  &quot;Sesame  Street&quot;  to  teach  kids  conflict  resolution.  He  sug-  gests:  if  you  disagree  with  a  playmate  get  tough;  threaten  to  set  him  on  fire.  Would  you  continue  to  watch  &quot;Live  from  Lincoln  Center&quot;  on  that  same  station?  You  fall  wildly  in  love  and  foresee  a  future  of  unalloyed  bliss.  Walter  Cronkite,  the  most  trusted  man  in  [REDACTED],  returns  to  do  a  single  broad-  cast,  exposing  your  fianc\xc3\xa9  as  Richard  Nixon.  Having  undergone  successful  reconstructive  surgery  at  a  secret  gov-  ernment  installation,  he's  thoroughly  transformed,  inside  and  out.  These  procedures  cost  billions  of  tax  dollars  that  otherwise  would  have  gone  to  rebuild  our  nation's  crumbling  infra-  structure.  Do  you  call  the  caterers  and  cancel  the  wedding?  A  contestant  on  TV's  &quot;$25,000  Pyramid,&quot;  you  find  yourself  paired  with  the  saurian  former  President.  Do  you  give  him  good  clues?  Perhaps  you  deliver  a  stirring  denunciation  to  host  Dick  Clark  and  stalk  off  the  set?  Sup-  pose  all  the  prize  money  goes  to  the  Heart  Fund.  What  if  the  Republican  Party's  elder  statesman  took  you  aside  during  the  first  commercial  and  per-  sonally  apologized  for  the  Christmas  bombing  of  Hanoi?  You're  convinced  he'sreally  sorry.  Dick  Clark  presents  the  first  category,  &quot;Things  dropped  out  of  a  B-52.&quot;  What  do  you  say  to  President  Nixon?  Some  Dos  anp  Don'ts:  Don't  script  a  Nixon  vehicle.  Can  you  spot  the  three  dismal  high-concept  projects  in  the  rest  of  this  paragraph?  Remake  those  classic  Jerry  Lewis  mov-  ies  with  R.N.  in  the  lead;  start  with  ''The  Nutty  Professor  Is  Not  a  Crook.&quot;  Update:  &quot;The  Man  Who  Would  Be  Imperial  President,&quot;  with  Nixon/Kissinger  for  Connery/Caine.  &quot;Miracle  on  34th  Street  '88,&quot;  with  Bloomingdale's  as  Macy's  and  R.N.  as  a  wiretapping  [REDACTED].  Don't  lend  him  a  three-cent  stamp  to  augment  his  twenty-two  if  he's  mailing  a  letter  written  under  the  pen  name  Senator  Muskie's  Wife.  Don't  hire  the  jowly,  unindicted  co-  conspirator  to  manage  your  556e6974656420537461746573n  League  East  baseball  team  if  he  persists  in  seeing  the  other  teams  in  the  division  merely  as  Soviet  proxies.  Do  overrule  him  if  you're  leading  [REDACTED]  3-2  in  the  ninth  and  he  threatens  to  use  nuclear  weapons  to  block  the  route  to  the  Orioles'  bullpen.  Hey,  Kips,  Try  Turse  ar  Home:  Pretend  you're  the  ghost  of  Roy  Cohn.  (Ask  your  mom  for  an  old  bed-  sheet.  Talk  in  a  scary  voice.)  Invite  Mr.  Nixon  for  dinner  at  &quot;21&quot;  and  dancing  at  Regine's.  Reminisce  about  the  good  old  days  with  Joe  McCarthy.  Sneer  at  the  stupidity  of  your  critics-  what  a  bunch  of  jerks!  In  a  singsong  voice  chant  something  Presidential  as  you  jump  rope.  Think  of  rhymes  for  Operation  Phoenix.  Go  double  Dutch:  try  rhyming  Executive  privilege,  protective  reaction,  Greek  colonels.  Build  a  Play-Doh  model  of  Cam-  bodia.  Drop  cans  of  peas  (ugh!)  and  beets  (yuch!)  and  Spaghettios  (yum!)  all  over  it.  Drop  a  canned  ham  on  Phnom  Penh.  Pretend  your  dog  is  on  aSenate  oversight  committee;  deny  everything.  Use  your  crayons  to  draw  a  jail  with  Jimmy  Hoffa  inside.  Now  draw  one  without  Jimmy  Hoffa  inside.  With  flour  and  water  and  strips  of  ripped-up  newspaper,  build  a  model  of  President  Nixon  and  of  his  national-  security  adviser,  Henry  Kissinger.  Have  your  new  dolls  make  sophisticat-  ed  chitchat  about  silly  things  Daniel Ellsberg  said  on  the  telephone  when  he  didn't  think  they  were  listening.  Pretend  your  Nixon  and  Kissinger  dolls  are  kneeling  in  prayer.  What  do  you  suppose  they're  praying  for?  Ask  Nipper  ano  CHipPER,  THE  CAR-  Toon  Morarist  Bravers  Nipper  (voice  of  Cyndi  Lauper)  says,  &quot;Don't  be  a  prig.  You  don't  have  to  share  a  guy's  politics  to  share  a  beer.&quot;  (Nipper  is  the  worldly  one.)  &quot;Everybody  makes  mistakes.  I'll  bet  there's  plenty  of  stuff  in  your  past  you're  not  so  proud  of.  Wait,  there's  the  doorbell.  It's  Dick!  Come  into  my  lodge,  pal.  And  look  who  he's  brought  -Attila!l  He  scourged  the  known  world.  But  hey,  let  bygones  be  bygones.  Let's  not  dwell  on  the  past.  And  look  who  else  is  here-enteric  parasites!  They've  laid  waste  millions.  But  what  could  they  do?  Bacteria  got  to  swim,  viruses  got  to  fly.  Besides,  being  nice  to  R.N.  creates  a  lot  of  jobs.&quot;  Chipper  (voice  of  Danny  DeVito)  says,  &quot;Oh,  right-if  it  happened  five  minutes  ago,  it  doesn't  count.&quot;  (Chip-  per  is  up  to  here  with  indignation.)  &quot;Hound  that  evil  monster  to  thegrave!  And  then  throw  stones  at  his  statue!&quot;  Somr  Hanpy  Purasers  to  CLIP  AND  Carry:  For  our  noble  cause,  I  would  accept  hors  d'oeuvres  from  the  Devil  himself.  I'm  just  here  to  research  this  novel  I'm  writing.  A  few  years  fromnow.  I  keep  a  journal.  When  I  remember  to  write  in  it.  It's  easy  to  sit  on  your  backside  and  criticize,  but  it's  darn  hard  to  topple  4368696c65's  elected  government  and  dispose  of  Salvador  Allende.  What  do  you  call  that  jelly  stuff?  You  use  it  to  burn  people  to  bits?  It's  like  Saran  Wrap?  WHEN HE REEMERGES Turn  off  the  lights.  Be  very  quiet.  Hope  he  thinks  there's  nobody  home.  Stand  at  closed  window  and  mime:  We've  all  got  the  measles.  (Hint:  Sounds  like  &quot;easels;&quot;  move  your  arms  like  an  artist  painting  at  his  easel.  It  also  sounds  like  &quot;weasels;&quot;  kill  a  chicken  and  drink  its  blood.)  Say  &quot;We're  just  on  our  way  out.  Care  to  join  us?  We're  going  to  blow  up  the  neighbors'  garage.  We  don't  like  their  cat.&quot;  &quot;I'm  sorry;  you  can't  come  in.  You  were  bad.&quot; "