 b"Barry  DrermEr  watches  his  wife,  B  Rosy,  across  the  deck.  She  is  talking  to  Scott  Wentworth  while  Scott  grills  ribs.  The  rhinestone  barrette  in  Rosy's  hair  catches  the  sun  and  directs  an  oval  ray  onto  the  Wentworths'  redwood  siding.  The  ray  seesaws  over  one  chunk  of  boards.  It's  Janet  Wentworth's  barrette.  A  couple  of  weeks  earlier,  when  Janet  first  no-  ticed  her  missing  barrette  in  Rosy  Deemer's  hair,  she  advised  Barry  to  check  into  it.  Rosy  leans  backward  against  the  deck  railing,  her  elbows  propped  on  thetop  beam,  and  seems  amused  by  the  barbecue  proceedings-there's  that  lit-  tle  half-smile.  She  tells  Scott  to  be  a  sport.  She  tells  him  she's  only  asking  one  half  hour  of  his  time.  &quot;Barry  won't  do  it,&quot;  she  saysloudly,  making  sure     Barry  hears.  Rosy  wants  Scott  to  dress  up  like  a  gorilla  and  deliver  balloons  to  a  birthday  party  at  the  Top  Deck  Lounge  that  night.  Rosy  has  a  little  balloon-gram  business,  and  the  gorilla-  grams  are  popular.  They  have  other  grams  as  well-a  leprechaun  on  St.  Patty's,  cupid  on  Valentine's  Day-but  the  gorilla  is  the  most  popular.  &quot;You're  out  of  your  gourd,&quot;  Scott  says.  &quot;Isn't  she  out  of  hergourd,  Barry?&quot;  &quot;A  little  rambunctious,&quot;  Barry  says.  The  barrette  holds  Rosy's  gray  streak.  It's  silver,  really-just  the  one  streak  in  her  entire  head.  She  laughs  at  something  Scott  says  that  Barry  can't  quite  hear.  Then  they  both  laugh.  Once,  Rosy  took  an  avocado-the  MAY  16,  1988  first  timethey  went  out.  They'd  stopped  at  the  Safeway  for  picnic  sup-  plies,  then  headed  for  the  Snowy  Range.  Halfway  through  the  meal  Rosy  pulled  from  her  windbreaker  pocket  an  avocado  that  hadn't  gone  through  the  checkout.  She  didn't  crack  a  smile.  She  reached  in  her  jeans  for  her  Swiss  Army  knife,  flipped  the  blade,  halved  the  avocado,  then  quar-  tered  it,  then  halved  the  quarters-all  with  neat  incisions,  as  if  she  were  performing  an  operation-and  peeled  the  skin  back,  making  eight  perfect  crescents.  She  ate  the  entire  avocado.  When  she  was  finished,  she  asked  him  if  he  was  going  to  bust  her.  At  the  time,  he  thought  it  was  an  isolated  incident,  but  now  there's  this  barrette.  Barry  can  see  the  headlines:  &quot;\xc2\xa9COP'S  WIFE  A  KLEPTOMANIAC.&quot;  Rosy  tells  Scott  that  he'll  get  to  dance  with  the  birthday  girl.  Scott  brushes  the  last  coat  of  sauce  over  the  ribs;  some  drips  on  the  coals,  and  they  hiss,  &quot;The  band  always  spotlights  the  birthday  girl.  See,  they  blackout  first,  then  the  gorilla  comes  up  the  stairs,  and  they  have  ared  light  on  him  and  a  white  light  on  her.  It's  great.&quot;  &quot;It's  a  disease,&quot;  Janet  whispers  in  Barry's  ear.  She  is  sitting  next  to  Barry  on  the  picnic  bench,  stirring  sugar  into  her  iced  tea.  &quot;It's  like  alcoholism.  Al-  coholics  can't  help  themselves,  and  nei-  ther  can  kleptos.&quot;  Barry  thinks  Rosy  helps  herself  pretty  good.  &quot;She's  just  trying  to  be  cute,&quot;  he  says.  \xc2\xabThey  don't  even  wantwhat  they  go  after.  Usually.&quot;  &quot;She's  just  trying  to  be  funny.&quot;  \xc2\xab'They're  capable  of  anything,  the  really  bad  ones  are.&quot;  He  knows  Rosy  is  capable  of  any-  thing.  &quot;Did  you  go  through  her  drawers?&quot;  AfterJanet  told  him  about  the  bar-  rette,  Barry  did  a  little  research.  He  read  in  the  police  dossiers  about  the  case  of  an  Army  officer's  wife  who  stockpiled  underwear  that  she'd  lifted  from  other  Army  officers'  wives.  At  parties  she'd  slip  into  their  bedrooms  and  take  samples  from  lingerie  drawers:  briefs  and  bikinis-cotton,  silk,  nylon.  Finally,  one  woman  got  wise;  she  began  investigating  lingerie  drawers  at  parties.  In  one  house  she  found  a  bu-  reau  full  of  underwear  she  recognized  " b"and  hundreds  of  pairs  she  didn't.  Rosy's  case  is  not  the  same.  This  is  jewelry.  Still,  Barry  had  gone  through  Rosy'sdrawers,  just  to  see.  He  found  more  than  he  expected,  but  nothing  he  didn't  recognize:  pairs  and  pairs  of  white  cotton  briefs  folded  in  little  tri-  angles.  Barry  counted  them-nineteen.  What  did  one  woman  need  with  nineteen  pairs  of  underpants?  He  checked  the  labels:  all  Jockey.  And  the  T-shirts  were  L.  L.  Bean  T-shirts,  and  there  were  two  slips-no  frills,  a  lit-  tle  worn-and  panty  hose  folded  in  squares  like  brown-bread  sand-  wiches,  a  tan  satin  bra,  a  shiny  white  one,  a  couple  of  pairs  of  long  underwear:  a  no-non-  sense  lingerie  drawer,  exactly  what  you'd  ex-  pect  from  a  country  girl  in  a  cold  climate.  And  the  sock  drawer  was  exactly  what  you'd  expect  as  well;  he  had  dug  through  wool  socks,  mounds  of  them,  grays  and  whites.  He  didn't  know  what  he  was  looking  for,  but  he  knew  it  wouldn't  be  gray  or  white.  AT  dinner  the  talk  turns  to  badgers.  Scottsays  that  as  far  as  he  is  concerned  the  badger  menace  is  esca-  lating,  the  population  on  the  bluff  ex-  ploding,  the  whole  damn  prairie  teem-  ing  with  burrowing  mammals.  &quot;Little  sons  of  bitches,  Barry-I  see  them  on  the  hill.&quot;  He  squints  at  the  hill  that  is  his  back  yard.  The  Wentworth  house  is  halfway  up  the  northern  bluff,  one  of  the  highest  human  habitats  in  Lara-  mie.  Barry  patrols  the  bluffs  when  things  are  slow,  driving  along  one  dirt  road  or  another  up  there,  just  follow-  ing  where  it  leads.  If  you  head  east  along  the  edge,  you'll  see  all  of  Lara-  mie  to  the  south,  miles  of  just  nothing  north.  They're  mean  animals,&quot;  Scott  says.  \xc2\xabThey'll  stand  you  off,&quot;  Barry  says.  &quot;I  know  it.&quot;  \xc2\xabScott's  at  his  wit's  end,&quot;&quot;  Janet  says.  &quot;Thing  is  you  get  five  feet  from  them,  they'll  stand  there  and  spit  in  your  face,&quot;  Scott  says.  &quot;Just  eyeball  them,&quot;&quot;  Rosy  says.  She  is  piling  sour  cream  on  her  potato.  So  far  she  has  piled  on  four  spoonfuls.  &quot;This  is  not  a  little  threat,&quot;  Scott  informs  her.  &quot;They  won't  just  rout  garbage,&quot;  he  says.  Scott  doesn't  look  at  Rosy  when  he  says  this.  Throughout  dinner  Barry  has  kept  an  eye  on  the  barrette;  Janet  has  kept  her  eye  on  the  barrette;  Rosy  has  kept  one  hand  on  the  barrette.  Scott  has  not  looked  at  Rosy  -he  has  taken,  Barry  thinks,  extra  care  not  to  look  at  Rosy.  Barry  wonders  why.  Scott  says  he  wants  the  Laramie  police  department  to  bomb  the  badger  holes  with  chemicals.  &quot;It's  not  so  easy,&quot;  Barry  says.  &quot;We  bomb  one  hole,  we're  as  good  as  killing  off  half  a  mile  of  the  animal  popula-  tion.&quot;  &quot;I  tell  you,  I'm  going  to  take  a  gun  to  the  next  one  gets  in  the  garden.&quot;  &quot;Go  ahead.&quot;  Barry  grins.  Janet  asks  if  the  cops  would  look  the  other  way,  and  Barry  says,  &quot;I'll  bust  his  ass.&quot;  &quot;It's  not  just  one,  I'm  telling  you,&quot;  Scott  says.  &quot;Barry,  they'll  go  after  small  animals.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;What  you  do,  sucker  them.  Manip-  ulate  them  outside  the  city  limits,  and  you'll  be  within  your  rights  asfaras  the  firearms  code  goes.&quot;  Scott  says  he  doesn't  see  how  he  is  going  to  manipulate  them  outside  the  city  limits,  the  way  they'll  just  spit  in  your  face.  He's  worried  about  rabies.  Just  one  with  rabies  could  infect  count-  less  small  domestic  animals.  And  they  are  enterprising  sons  of  bitches,  he  continues-he  points  out  again  that  they  don't  go  for  just  garbage.  &quot;They  are  little  thieves,&quot;  Rosy  agrees.  She  smiles  at  the  skin  of  what  had  been  her  potato.  &quot;'The  badger  is  a  little  thief.&quot;  Janet  shoots  Barry  a  look.  \xe2\x80\x9c7HEN  he  went  through  Rosy's  drawers,  Barry  told  himself  that  it  was  more  a  scavenger  hunt  than  " b"search  and  seizure,  not  so  very  different  from  scavenging  loot  when  he  was  a  kid.  From  the  ages  of  ten  to  twelve  Barry  and  Scott  orga-  nized  scavenger  hunts  to  gather  booty  around  the  neighborhood.  The  two  were  always  divided  in  strategies.  Scott  said  loot  wasn't  loot  unless  you  snuck  it  pure  and  simple, \nbut  Scott  was  not  a  very  complicated  fel-  low.  There  were  ways  to  steal  and  ways  to  steal.  Barry  liked  the  &quot;It's  your  civic  duty&quot;  approach.  During  scavenger  hunts  he'd  knock  on  a  neighbor's  door  and  present  a  list  of  items  needed  by  the  Wyoming  Children's  Home,  although  at  the  time  he  was  not  even  sure  that  such  a  home  existed.  In  spite  of  himself,  Barry  had  to  admire  the  brazenness  of  the  Rosy  Deemer  method-sneaking  into  your  friend's  bedroom,  pilfering  her  rhine-  stone,  then  wearing  it  in  the  light  of  day;  or  palming  an  avocado  when  the  cop's  back  is  turned,  then  stripping  and  eating  it  right  in  his  face.  What  do  you  do  when  she  holds  out  eight  perfect  black  crescents  of  avocado  skinthat  curl  like  a  witch's  nails  in  the  palms  of  her  hands,  opens  her  fingers,  lets  the  peelings  fall  to  the  ground  between  you,  grinds  them  in  the  dirt,  and  begins  to  stroke  you:  your  upper  arms,  your  neck,  then  your  hair.  What  do  you  do?  What  Barry  knows  is  the  avocado  was  not  a  major  crime.  W  hat  he  wonders  is  whether  it  is  a  symptom  of  some  sick-  ness.  Barry  fell  in  love  with  Rosy  when  he  was  eleven  years  old.  Of  course,  he  didn't  notice  her  until  the  day  he  inter-  cepted  a  note  from  Rosy  to  Scott  that  read,  &quot;Who  do  you  like?&quot;  in  Scott's  pinched  scrawl,  and  below  it,  in  Rosy's  galloping  hand,  &quot;I  like  you.  Why!?&quot;  That's  when  he  noticed  her.  He  fell  in  love  with  her  a  few  weeks  later,  when  he  saw  her  in  her  back  yard  swinging  on  her  swing  set.  The  swing  set,  ungrounded,  inched  across  the  lawn.  Rosy  had  her  eyes  squeezed  shut,  and  she  was  talking-a  whisper,  really,  or  a  hiss.  Barry  recog-  nized  the  words  to  a  jump-rope  rhyme  he'd  heard  the  girls  sing  on  the  play-  ground,  but  Rosy  chanted  venomously,  as  if  accusing  the  air  she  kicked  with  her  swinging  feet:  Fudge,  fudge,  call  the  judge,  Mama's  got  a  newborn  baby.  It  ain't  no  girl  and  it  ain't  no  boy,  It's  just  a  newborn  baby.  Wrap  it  up  in  tissue  paper,  Send  it  down  the  elevator.  First  floor,  stop.  Second  floor,  stop.  Third  floor,  kick  it  out  the  door,  And  you'll  never  see  baby  anymore.  Every  time  she  said  the  word  &quot;stop&quot;  she  stuck  her  legs  straight  to  the  sky,  tilted  her  back  parallel  to  the  ground,  and  pumped  with  such  force  that  Barry  thought  she'd  wind  herself  around  the  topbar  of  the  swing  set.  The  whole  swing  set  bucked  like  a  mad  thing,  and  when  she  finally  bailed  out,  she  twisted  in  midair,  landed  cross-legged  sitting on  the  ground,  faced  the  swing,  and  clapped-she  clapped  at  the  empty  swing.  Barry  laughed,  although  it  wasn't  really  funny,  that  intent  look  on  her  face.  He  laughed.  And  Rosy  fixed  on  him  a  wild,  yellow-eyed  animal  look  that  made  him  feel  as  though  Ae  had  been  hurled  down  the  elevator.  He  gagged  on  his  laughter.  Then  the  look  was  gone,  replaced  by  befuddlement,  as  if  he'd  caught  her  in  the  bathroom  dancing  naked  before  the  mirror.  It  was  the  confusion  that  made  him  fall  in  love  with  her.  He  said  the  only  thing  he  could  think  to  say:  &quot;You  like  Scott  Went-  worth.&quot;  And  then  it  was  Rosy's  turn  to  laugh.  She  threw  her  head  back  and  hooted  at  the  swing.  &quot;That  dope?&quot;  &quot;Then  who  do  you  like?&quot;  She  gave  him  a  sly,  furtive  look.  &quot;I  like  you.  Why?&quot;  She  may  have  liked  Barry,  but  Rosy  and  Scott  were  an  item  from  the  time  they  were  eleven  years  old  until  Scott  joined  the  Army  at  eighteen  and  mar-  ried  Janet  six  months  later.  The  funny  thing  was,  those  years  in  the  back  of  the  room  during  civics  when  Rosy  passed  notes  to  Scott  but  kept  her  eyes  on  Barry,  when  she  danced  slow  dances  with  Scott,  her  chin  digging  into  his  shoulder  but  with  her  eyes  on  Barry,  he  " b"wondered  if  maybe  she  did  like  him,  if  maybe  she  didn't  think  Scott  really  was  a  dope  (which  he  was,  in  some  ways).  He  wondered  ifit  had  been  deliberate,  that  long  adolescent  dance  with  Scott  Wentworth,  a  way  of  courting  and  teasing  and  seducing  Barry  Deemer  without  ever  touching  him,  a  slow  angling,  worth  the  wait-to  let  him  know  she  was  worth  the  wait.  Or  had  she  married  him  on  the  rebound  when  she  heard  about  Janet?  He  and  Rosy  had  been  married  ten  years.  He  wondered  why  he  still  won-  dered  about  these  things.  He  wondered  where  she  got  the  barrette.  Did  she  steal  the  barrette,  or  did  Scott  give  her  the  barrette?  ROSY  is  chewing  at  little  bits  of  meat  stuck  in  the  grooves  of  a  rib.  She  asks  Scott  which  weapon  he  would  use  on  badgers  in  the  garden,  and  Scott  says  he  figures  his  little  .30-calibre  Luger  would  do  it,  but  Rosy  disagrees;  she'd  use  a  .45  or  nothing.  &quot;Isn't  that  right,  sweetheart?&quot;  she  says.  &quot;You  want  to  be  sure,&quot;  Barry  says.  &quot;Unless  you're  right  up  on  them.  If  you're  close  enough  to  get  a  starburst,  then  a  Luger  would  work,&quot;  Rosy  says.  Janet  asks  what  a  starburst  is,  and  Rosy,  who  has  always  taken  an  avid  interest  in  police  work,  explains  that  it's  a  gunpowder-residue  pattern  from  a  bullet  wound.  The  pattern  will  change  depending  on  the  distance  from  weapon  to  target,  stability,  and  bullet  path.  They  analyze  the  residue  pattern  to  help  reconstruct  the  circumstances  of  a  crime,  she  says.  A  starburst  indi-  catesclose  range,  so  every  suicide  is  a  starburst.  &quot;Although  the  starburst  does  not  always  limit  your  options,  does  it  sweetheart?&quot;  Rosy  goes  on.  &quot;There  are  factors  you  can't  imagine.  Dust.  Corrosion  on  the  inside  of  the  barrel.  This  guy  shot  his  wife  from  a  distance  of  twenty  feet,  but  they  only  knew  because  the  guy  confessed  later.  At  first  they  thought  it  was  a  suicide,  because  there  was  a  clear  starburst  pattern.  It  turned  out  that  the  gun  had  been  sit-  ting  around  for  forty  years-forty  years  of  accumulated  crud  went  with  the  bullet  and  happened  to  form  a  starburst.&quot;  Rosy  pushes  her  plate  away  and  smiles  at  Janet.  &quot;You  can't  be  sure  about  anything  unless  you  can  dupli-  cate  the  exact  circumstances  of  a  crime.&quot;  Scott  asks  Janet  if  she  didn't  make  a  lemon  pie  for  dessert.  Janet  is  watching  the  sprinkler  in  the  back  yard.  It  is  sputtering-a  tiny  fountain  in  the  mid-  dle  of  the  lawn;  she's  staring  as  though  this  were  a  fascinating  object.  Janet  is  twenty-eight  but  looks  eighteen.  Her  skin  is  that  ivory  white,  without  a  laugh  line  or  blemish;  she  looks  like  she'd  bruise  if  you  put  thumb  pressure  to  her,  and  she  has  watery  blue  eyes,  clear  in  the  whites,  because  she  doesn't  drink.  &quot;Barry,  she's  a  dancer,&quot;  Scott had  told  him  over  the  phone  the  night  before  he  married  Janet.  &quot;She's  got  everything.&quot;  And  she  moves  like  a  dancer.  And  the  clothes  she  wears-  short  denim  skirts  with  tennis  shoes,  and  thin  little  sleeveless  cotton  blouses  unbuttoned  halfway  down,  so  you  can  see  a  lace  camisole  where  if  Rosy  wore  blouses  like  that  you'd  see  a  bra.  And  you  can  talk  to  Janet.  She  has  been  nothing  but  nice  about  the  barrette.  Rosy  is  studying  the  side  of  Janet's  " b"face.  She  says,  &quot;Did  you  know,  Janet,  that  the  police  investigating  team  uses  cadavers  to  duplicate  the  exact  circum-  stances  of  a  cri556e6974656420537461746573;  Rosy  looks  at  Barry.  She  is  lying.  They  don't  do  that  anymore,  and  Rosy  knows  it.  Barry  looks  away.  He  watches  the  table  move.  Scott's  leg  is  jumping  up  and  down-he's  got  this  nervous  hab-  it,  and  the  picnic  table  twitches  with  the  leg.  Janet's  index  finger,  white-  nailed  from  pressure,  holds  on  to  a  fork.  Janet  would  probably  rather  not  hear  talk  about  shooting  holes  in  cadavers,  which  is  why  Rosy  goes  on  about  it.  She  knows  Janet  gets  squeam-  ish.  \xc2\xabW  hat  they  do  is  dress  a  cadaver  like  the  victim,&quot;  Rosy  goes  on.  &quot;Say  a  victim  is  wearing  a  sheepskin  coat.  You  dress  the  corpse  in  sheepskin  of  the  same  thickness,  duplicate  the  ammo,  and  whammy.&quot;  A  bald-faced  lie.  She  has  themcom-  pletely  conned.  And  when  she  isn't  making  things  up,  she's  got  this  trick  of  making  you  wonder.  Barry  thinks  of  the  first  time  he  saw  Rosy  naked.  It  was  clear  they  were  going  to  sleep  together, and  she  excused  herself  and  went  into  the  bathroom  and  came  out  naked.  Maybe  it  was  a  stupid  thing,  because  she  got  that  funny,  confused  look  she  gets,  but  he  said,  &quot;That  girl's  bare-  assed  naked.&quot;  That  was  all.  It  had  been  a  good  first  night,  a  fine  first  night.  But  the  next  day  he  saw  the  line  in  a  notebook  she'd  left  conspicuously  open  on  her  desk,  just  the  one  line  with  that  day's  date:  &quot;'That  girl's  bare-assed  naked.&quot;  What  did  she  mean  by  writing  it  down?  He  couldn't  get  it  out  of  his  head.  And  what  was  in  his  head  at  the  time  he  said  it,  and  what  was  in  hers?  He  couldn't  get  the  notebook  out  of  his  head,  which  madehim  realize  right  away  that  Rosy  would  be  an  asset  to  any  interrogation  team,  the  way  she  had  him  guessing  and  made  him  think  he  was  a  chump  for  even  paying  atten-  tion.  Barry  pushes  away  from  the  table,  picks  up  his  empty  plate,  and  carries  it  into  thehouse.  He  heads  upstairs,  where  the  bathroom  is,  and  switches  on  the  light,  but  he  does  not  go  into  the  bathroom.  The  Wentworths'  bedroom  door  is  ajar.  He  walks  down  the  hall  and  opens  the  door.  The  room  is  over  the  deck  and  the  window  is  open,  so  Barry  can  hear  Rosy  clearly,  almost  as  if  he  were  standing  on  top  ofher.  She  is  saying  that  the  cadavers  are  usually  prisoners  who  die  in  jail.  She  sounds  like  an  authority;  she  sounds  delighted  with  herself.  Barry  moves  straight  to  the  bureau.  There  are  two  jewelry  boxes,  one  at  each  end  of  the  bureau,  and  Barry  opens  the  box  on  the  left.  There's  nothing  but  rhinestones,  which  surprises  him-rhinestone  pins  and  earrings  and  two  necklaces.  Barry  rifles  through  the  colored  glass.  As  far  as  he  can  see,  Rosy  got  the  pick  of  the  lot.  T  hen  he  opens  the  box  on  the  right  and  is  surprised  again.  This  stuff  looks  real.  There's  a  pearl  necklace,  a  ring  with  red  stones,  maybe  rubies.  The  ring  looks  old.  Rosy  was  just  trying  to  be  cute.  She  didn't  take  anything  valuable.  Rosy  was  just  trying  to  be  funny.  Unless  Scott  gave  her  the  barrette.  Why  would  Scott  give  Rosy  junk  when  there  was  this?  Barry  hears  Scott  ask  Rosy  how  they  could  simulate  a  moving  target.  &quot;They  put  it  on  rollers,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;Silhouette  rollers,  like  the  kind  they  use  at  shooting  ranges.&quot;  Another  lie.  Rosy  took  that  barrette.  Scott  didn't  give  her  the  rhinestone,  and  the  only  question  is  why  she  took  junk.  Barry  closes  the  jewelry  box.  He  opens  the  top  bu-  reau  drawer.  It  is  Janet's  underwear  drawer.  Silks,  mostly,  from  what  he  can  tell.  Spaghetti-strap  silk  undershirts  and  matching  bikinis.  Some  lace  stuff,  strips  of  lace-G-strings;  stockings  with  sequins.  No  contest-definitelya  more  interesting  drawer  than  Rosy's.  Barry  takes  from  Janet's  lingerie  drawer  a  pair  of  blue  underpants;  they  feel  like  silk.  He  walks  over  to  the  window.  Rosy  is  lean-  ing  across  the  picnic  table,  telling  Scott  and  Janet  more  lies  about  what  the  police  do.  Barry  wants  her  to  look  up.  He  wants  her  to  see  him  looking  at  her.  " b"&quot;And  this  is  the  reason  I  know  you  shouldn't  shoot  \xc2\xa7  badgers  with  that  little  Luger,&quot;  she  is  saying.  'See,  sometimes,  instead  of  using  a  cadaver,  what  they'll  do  is  try  to  find  a  live  animal  and  shoot  it.  Say,  a  jackrabbit,  and-&quot;  &quot;You're  kidding,&quot;  Janet  says.  Her  face  is  flushed.  Barry  crushes  the  un-  derwear,  then  lets  his  fist  relax.  He  rubs  the  grooves  in  the  waistband,  then  traces  the  elastic  around  the  legs.  He  imagines  Janet  in  the  blue  silk.  &quot;And  what  they  found,&quot;  Rosy  says,  &quot;is  that  even  after  ten  shots  from  a  gun  the  calibre  of  your  Luger  a  jackrabbit  won't  always  drop.  But  if  you  use  a  Colt  A5  or  a  Winchester,  you'll  drop  it  in  three.  This  only  applies  if  you  don't  hit  a  vi-  tal  organ  first.&quot;  &quot;You're  kidding!&quot;  Janet  says  again.  &quot;That  makes  me  sick.&quot;  Barry  feels  for  her,  the  way  Rosy  will  push  and  push.  But  then  Rosy  leans  back,  and  when  she  speaks  her  voice  is  different.  &quot;Oh,  Christ,&quot;  she  says.  She  has  dropped  an  octave.  &quot;Of  course  it  makes  yow  sick,  Janet.&quot;  &quot;They're  just  killing  those  animals!&quot;  Janet  says.  She  does  not  look  at  Rosy.  Janet  looks  at  the  ground.  Rosy  stares  at  the  side  of  Ja-  net's  face;  she  looks  exasperated.  She  can't  believe  that  Janet  is  buying  this.  &quot;How  else  are  you  going  to  simu-  late?&quot;  Rosy  asks.  &quot;Who  would  want  to?&quot;  Janet  says.  &quot;Hey,  calm  down,&quot;  Scott  says.  He  gets  up  and  walks  to  the  barbecue;  he  begins  scraping  the  grill  with  a  spatula.  Rosy  continues  staring  at  the  side  of  Janet's  face,  but  Janet  doesn't  look  up.  Nobody  looks  up.  On  the  deck  no  one  speaks.  Rosy  begins  peeling  bits  of  label  off  the  ketchup  bottle.  She  looks  tired.  Behind  her  the  Laramie  bluffs  are  turning  blue,  and  the  sun  rests  on  the  plain.  Barry  knows  it  is  her  least  favor-  ite  time  of  the  day.  She  says  that  the  day  feels  too  close  at  dusk,  as  if  the scenery  were  moving  in-you  go  out-  side  and  the  air  has  the  feel  of  your  own  breath.  Barry  holds  the  underwear  loosely-  it's  like  tissue,  hardly  any  weight  at  all  -and  he  wonders  if  Rosy  has  ever  worn  silk.  &quot;It  doesn't  matter  what  you  wear,&quot;  she  said  once.  &quot;Within  fifteen  minutes  of  getting  dressed  in  the  morn-  ing,  your  body  no  longer  feels  your  clothes.  You  get  numb.&quot;  Barry  closes  his  eyes.  On  the  inside  of  his  lids,  he  sees  moving  red  suns.  He  opens  his  eyes.  Rosy  is  studying  Scott's  face  like  it's  a  problem.  Scott  watches  his  plate.  So,&quot;  Rosy  says  at  last.  She  leans  halfway  across  the  table.  &quot;So  are  you  going  to  be  the  gorilla  or  what!&quot;  Scott  laughs  and  looks  at  Janet.  Janet  is  watching  the  bluffs.  &quot;Come  on,  it'll  be  fun.&quot;  Scott  stares  at  his  wife  for  a  minute.  Finally  he  shrugs.  &quot;Hell,  I  guess  I'm  game,&quot;  he  says.  Rosy  laughs.  &quot;Good.  You'll  come,  won't  you,  Janet?&quot;  Janet  says  no.  You'll  be  sorry,&quot;  Rosy  says.  &quot;It'll  bea  gas.&quot;  She  grins  at  Scott.  Then  she  says,  &quot;I  wonder  where  Barry's  gotten  to.&quot;  Barry  steps  away  from  the  window.  He  walks  to  the  dresser,  where  the  lingerie  drawer  is  still  open.  He  drops  the  underwear  in  the  drawer.  He  stares  at  it  for  a  minute.  Then  he  picks  it  up  again  and  puts  it  inhis  pocket.  He  shuts  the  drawer  and  goes  downstairs.  THE  Top  Deck  is  dark  except  for  the  neon  beer  signs.  One  of  the  band  members  directs  a  red  spotlight  onto  the  stairway.  The  drummer  has  muffled  his  snare  to  make  it  sound  like  " b"a  tomtom,  an  d  t  he  female  singer  shakes  a  rattle.  The  f  irst  thing  Barr  y  sees  is  the  bouqu  e  t  of  balloons,  multicolored,  floating  up  the  stairs.  Then  the  spot  w  idens  to  include  the  gorilla.  A  female  voic  e  in  the  room  says,  &quot;Oh,  God,&quot;  and  a  group  at  one  of  the  tables  laughs.  T  he  gorilla  looks  fierce  enough  in  the  red  light-the  widow's  peak,  the  pronounced  nostrils,  the  mout  h  like  a  blunted,  downturned  snout-and  Barry  can  s  ee  the  canines,  probably  bigger  than  a  normal  gori  lla  has.  &quot;He  should  bend  over,&quot;  Rosy  whis-  pe  rs.  &quot;  He  should  stomp  or  so  met  hing.  He's  walking  up  the  stairs  like  a  homo  sap  ien.&quot;  A  second  spotl  ight  comes  on-a  white  one  that  shines  on  a  girl  who  is  probably  just  t  wenty-one.  She  wears  jeans,  a  red  tank  top,  and  has  long  hair  with  thre  e  little  braids  on  the  r  ight  side.  Maybe  she's  not  even  twenty-one.  She's  laughing  hard  and  k  eeps  saying,  &quot;How  embarrassing!&quot;  Scott  walks  stiffly  acros  s  the  floor.  &quot;He  looks  ridic  ul  ous,&quot;  Barry  says,  and  Rosy  laugh  s  .  The  gor  illa  bow  s  to  the  birthday  girl  an  d  offers  her  the  balloons.  She  smiles  at  h  im.  Rosy  laughs  again.  The  gor  illa  offers  his  h  and,  and  t  he  two  walk  to  the  dance  floor.  The  band  begins  to  play  an  Ann  M  urray  song,  the  v  ocalist  sings,  and  everybody  in  the  room  c  racks  up:  Ca  n  I  hav  e  this  dance  for  the  rest  of  m  y  life,  Will  you  be  my  partner  e  very  night?  After  a  while,  other  couples  join  the  two  on  the  floor.  Rosy  asks  Barry  if  he  woul  d  like  to  dance.  Barr  y  wouldn't.  When  we're  together  it  feels  so  right,  Can  I  have  this  dance  for  the  rest  of  my  life?  The  song  ends.  Scott  take  s  his  mask  off  and  dances  a  second  tim  e  with  the  girl.  Scott  is  a  fair  dancer.  They  coun-  try-swing  to  &quot;I  'll  Be  Your  Baby  To-  night.&quot;  Rosy  says,  &quot;You  know,  a  g  uy's  got  an  ob  ligation  to  ask  a  girl  to  dan  ce.&quot;  Barry  doe  sn't  say  anything,  and  Rosy  begins  shredding  the  label  on  her  Michelob  bottle.  They  wa  tch  through  the  set.  Sc  ott  takes  turns  dancing  with  all  the  women  a  t  the  birthday  girl  's  table.  He  looks  l  ike  he's  having  a  terrific  time.  \xc2\xab&quot;  I  could  dance  with  Scott,&quot;  Rosy  says.  &quot;Go  ahead,&quot;  Barry  says.  Rosy  con-  tinues  peeling  the  label.  Barry  prop  s  his  feet  on  the  cha  ir  next to  him.  There  is  a  distinctive  odor  to  this  place.  It's  a  metallic  smell  of  liquor  gone  stale  and  of  cigar  ett  es,  a  smell  that  li  nge  rs  long  after  everybody  leaves  the  room-that  lin  ge  rs  permanently,  as  if  smoke  and  stale  beer  are  var  nish  for  the  furniture;  it's  a  smell  Barry  usual  ly  doesn't  notice  unless  he's  in  a  bar  sober  during  off-hours-a  scent  with  a  te  xture,  like  poor-quality  wet  alumin  u  m  that  you  can  tear  withyour  fingers.  An  alcoholic  sweats  this  smell  afte  r  a  while.  Barry  has  smelled  it  on  winos  after  they've  been  on  a  three-  week  binge  with  no  bat  h,  an  d  it  se  ems  funny  to  him  how  a  human  being  at  his  most  human,  a  human  being  un-  groomed,  will  come  to  have  that  almost  clean  smell  of  cheap  metal.  Barry  is  a  little  tired  but  is  not  inclined  to  go  home.  Rosy  doesn't  seem  i  nclin  e  d  to  go,  either.  In  the  dim  light,  the  rhines  t  one  barrette  looks  like  a  band  of  blac  k  hair  bis  ecti  ng  her  silve  r  stre  ak.  She  seems  to  have  forgotten  it.  She  plays  with  bits  of  paper  from  her  be  er  bo  ttle  and  watches  t  he  dancers.  After  a  whi  le  she  says,  &quot;Where'd  you  go  tonight?&quot;  &quot;Tonight?  &quot;  &quot;Whil  e  we  were  eating,  where'd  you  go?&quot;  Barr  y  pu  ts  his  hand  in  his  pocket.  He  says,  &quot;Where  did  you  get  the  bar  -  rette?&quot;  Rosy  grins,  like  she's  been  waiting  for  somebody  to  ask  that  que  stion  all  night.  &quot;I  found  it,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;'Yeah?&quot;  Barry  says.  &quot;You  w  ant  to  know  what  I  found?&quot;  &quot;What?&quot;  He  says,  &quot;You  didn't  find  that  bar-  rette.&quot;  Rosy  puts  her  arm  around  Barry  and  her  chin  on  his  right  shoulder.  She  whispers,  &quot;So  are  you  going  to  bust  [REDACTED];  Barr  y  looks  out  at  the  room.  Nobody  s  its  at  t  he  birthday  table  now,  but  Scott's  gorilla  head  sco  wls  from  the  ta-  ble  center  at  all  the  empty  beer  b  ottles.  Barry  laughs.  &quot;Now  that's  one  mean  monkey,&quot;  he  says.  In  his  pocket,  Barry's  fingers  twist  a  round  the  blue  silk.  T  hen  he  pulls  it  out  and  drops  it  on  the  floor.  He  thinks  maybe  later  he  will  tell  Rosy  that  he  stole  a  pair  of  Janet's  underpants,  then  left  them  for  the  barmaid;  Rosy  will  appreciate  that.  But  now  he  pushes  his  chair  back  from  the  table  and  stands  up.  Barry  and  Rosy  join  the  dancers."