 b"IN  1891,  at  the  age  of  five,  Lewis  Barber  Fletcher  travelled  alone  from  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  to  the  little  town  of  [REDACTED],  thirty-one  miles  northwest  of  [REDACTED],  in  upstate  New  York.  Fiftyyears  later,  his  wife,  children,  and  friends  heard  about  his  trip  for  the  first  time  when  this  item  appeared  on  the  editorial  page  of  the  [REDACTED]  Daily  Press  under  a  standing  head,  &quot;50  Years  Ago  Today  in  the  Press&quot;:  &quot;Lewis  B.  Fletcher,  5,  arrived  in  [REDACTED]  yesterday  on  a  New  York  Central  train  on  his  way  to  join  his  mother  in  [REDACTED].  He  was  travelling  alone  from  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED].&quot;  A  friend  spotted  the  item  and  phoned  Mrs.  Fletcher,  who  called  her  husband  athis  office  and  read  it  to  him.  She  had  to  read  it  twice  before  he  got  it  straight;  he  was  hard  of  hearing  and  even  with  an  amplifying  device  on  his  telephone  often  had  trouble  under-  standing,  mostly  because  he  became  tense  when  he  had  to  use  it.  When  he  under-  stood  what  she  had  read  him,  he  gave  anembar-  rassed  &quot;Ha!&quot;  and  said  he  had  forgotten  about  the  trip.  There  was  no  further  discussion-he  disliked  talking  about  personal  matters  athis  office,  possibly  suspect-  ing  that  all  work  stopped  while  the  help  listened  for  material  for  gossip.  When  he  came  home  that  evening,  he  had  already  read  the  item  at  work,  clipped  it,  stuck  it  in  his  billfold,  and  developed  an  attitude  toward  it-a  sort  of  amused  self-conscious  pride  that  seemed  to  say  yes,  he  had  travelled  nearly  fourteen  hundred  miles  by  himself  when  he  was  five,  with  two  changes  of  train,  one  of  them  involving  a  ferry  from  Jersey  City  to  [REDACTED],  and  had  managed  the  whole  thing,  as  he  had  every-  thing  else  in  his  life,  by  strict  application  to  business.  The  item  was  a  sort  of  one-day  sensation.  T  wo  clippings  were  put  away  in  a  photo-  graph  album,  and  the  subject  was  pretty  much  forgotten.  Sarah,  the  youn-  gest  child,  occasionally  resurrected  it  when  the  family  was  together  at  Christmas  or,  in  later  years,  during  vacations  at  the  elder  Fletchers'  place  outside  [REDACTED].  In  the  evening,  when  their  parents  had  gone  to  bed  and  the  children  stayed  up  talking,  Sarah  might  say  in  a  reverential  tone,  &quot;Can  you  imagine  him  travelling  alone  from  [REDACTED]  to  [REDACTED]  when  he  was  five?&quot;  The  two  others-Howard,  the  oldest,  and  Edward-would  say  they  could  imagine  it,  that  it  was  the  easiest  thing  in  the  world  to  imagine.  The  picture  they'd  then  conjure  up  was  of  a  five-year-old  old  man  with  white  hair,  steel-rimmed  bifocals,  and  a  hearing  aid  that  he  kept  turned  off  to  save  the  flat,  half-pint-shaped  battery.  (Edward  and  Howard  had  never  thought  of  him  as  anything  but  an  old  man,  even when  they  were  small  and  he  was  in  his  thirties.)  He  would  have  dickered,  they'd  say,  with  the  railroad  until  it  agreed  to  give  him  a  ticket  in  ex-  change  for  some  worn-out  toys,  and  he  would  have  worked  a  dealin  the  din-  ing  car  for  his  food,  perhaps  agreeing  to  polish  silver.  He  would  have  brought  along  candy,  fruit,  and  tattered  copies  of  old  newspapers  to  sell  on  the  train.  When  he  wasn't  busy  selling,  or  polishing  silver,  he'dbe  doing  his  bookkeeping.  At  every  stop,  he'd  buy  more  stuff  to  sell,  and  at  Jersey  City  he'd  trade  some  of  his  inventory  for  the  ferry  ride  to  [REDACTED].  He'd  be  too  busy  to  see  the  [REDACTED]  River  or  the  Mohawk  [REDACTED],  and  when  there  was  nothing  else  to  do  he'd  make  notes  for  the  lectures  he'd  someday  give  his  sons  on  How  to  Get  Ahead  and  Be  Somebody.  &quot;You  don't  get  anything  in  this  life  without  working.  ...  You'll  never  get  anywhere  until  you  learn  to  apply  yourselves.  ...  How  do  you  suppose  we  got  this  nice  home?  No-  body  handed  it  to  us.I  worked  hard  for  every-  thing  we've  got.  ...  If  you  don't  develop  some  get-up-and-go,  you'll  never  amount  to  anything  or  have  anything.&quot;  He'd  write  anote  to  himself  to  mention  the  horrible  example  of  Uncle  Reggie,  who  was  two  at  the  time  and  showing  unmistak-  able  signs  of  having  no  get-up-and-go.  Edward  did  wonder  that  his  father  seemed  to  have  forgotten  about  a  trip  that  should  have  been  a  momentous  experience  for  a  five-year-old.  He  decided  that  his  father  may  have  felt  there  was  something  shameful  about  it  and  the  shame  had  caused  him  to  repress  the  memory.  The  children  were  dimly  aware  that  their  paternal  grand-  parents  had  separated  in  [REDACTED]  and  were  later  divorced,  and  that  their  grandmother  had  brought  up  Lewis  and  Reginald  in  [REDACTED],  her  home  town,  but  they  didn't  know  any  details;  a  divorce  in  a  churchgoing  family  was  a  matter  of  " b"some  embarrassment.  What  Edward  learned  later  was  that  right  after  the  separation  their  grandmother  had  re-  turned  to  [REDACTED]  with  Reginald,  leaving  Lewis  with  their  grandfather.  The  grandfather,  who  wasn't  much  good,  had  apparently  decided  that  he  didn't  want  Lewis  and  had  put  him  on  a  train  for  the  two-day  trip  tohis  mother's.  It  was  not  an  amusing  pic-  ture:  a  five-year-old  had  been  left  be-  hind  by  his  mother  and  then  sent  off  alone  by  his  father-abandoned  by  one,  rejected  by  the  other.  Edward  would  try  to  imagine  him  without  white  hair,  hearing  aid,  or  steel-  rimmed  bifocals,  a  small  boy  with  brown  hair  and  a  grave  face,  being  taken  to  the  train  by  his  father,  so  dumb  with  misery  and  fright  that  he  couldn't  cry,  knowing  only  that  he  was  going  somewhere  out  there  into  unknown  space.  A  train  would  thun-  der  into  the  station,  all  smoke  and  steam.  He  had  seen  trains  from  a  dis-  tance,  and  this  one  was  all  the  more  terrifying  for  being  seen  from  three  feet  above  the  platform.  His  father  would  take  him  aboard  and  stow  a  bag  in  the  rack.  After  reminding  him  when  to  eat  the  food  he  had  brought  along,  his  father  would  embrace  him  and  leave,  possibly  waiting  on  the  platform  to  gesture  and  smile  until  the  train  moved,  and  then  walking  a  few  steps  with  it  and  waving.  Lewis  would  sit  there,  keeping  a  toy  close  to  him,  putting  off  as  long  as  he  could  going  to  the  toilet,  because  so  many  people  would  be  watching  him  walk  through  the  aisle  and  because  he  wouldn't  be  sure  he  could  undertake  such  a  project  without  help.  Maybe  two  days  of  sit-  ting  there  and  sleeping  in  a  berth,  if  his  father  had  bought  him  a  Pullman  ticket-long  enough  for  the  railroad  car  to  become  his  world-and  then  Jersey  City,  the  end  ofthe  line.  A  conductor  or  Pullman  porter  who  had  been  tipped  would  take  him  across  the  river  on  a  ferry  to  a  horse-drawn  cab  and  instruct  the  driver  to  take  Lewis  to  Grand  Central  and  see  that  someone  put  him  on  a  train  for  [REDACTED].  Then  the  train  out  of  New  York  and  up  the  [REDACTED]  and  through  the  Mohawk  [REDACTED].  At  [REDACTED]  he  would  change  trains  for  [REDACTED].  Edward  supposed  Lewis's  mother  would  be  at  the  Cam-  den  station  to  meet  him.  Edward  went  over  the  trip  from  time  to  time,  adding  details,  trying  to  get  inside  the  boy  to  experience  his  anxiety  and  despair  and  very  likely  his   distrust  of  people  on  the  train,  whose  brief,  unctuous  kindnesses  betrayed  their  fear  of  ending  up  with  him  on  their  hands.  THIS  was  the  image  of  his  father  that  could  move  Edward,  and  it  seemed  to  bear  no  relation  to  the  anxi-  ety-ridden  old  man  in  his  early  forties  who  sat  all  evening  with  a  Seturdey  Evening  Post  in  his  lap,  his  hands  clasped  over  his  stomach  and  his  thumbs  revolving  first  one  way  and  then  the  other  while  he  went  over  and  over  whatever  was  worrying  him-  whether  his  sons  would  turn  out  like  Reggie  or  his  own  father,  whether  there'd  be  enough  profit  at  the  end  of  the  year  to  enable  him  to  meet  his  bank  loan,  whether  the  new  Jewish  family  in  the  neighborhood  meant  more  to  come.  In  1928,  a  pressing  worry  was  whether  a  cocky  Irish  Catholic  from  New  York  City  would  defeat  Herbert  Hoover  and  succeed  in  destroying  business  and  the  country-Hoover,  surpassed  in  wisdom  and  ability  only  by  his  great  predecessor,  Calvin  Coo-  lidge.  What  upset  their  father  as  much  as  anything  else  was  the  attitude  of  his  sons,  particularly  Howard's.  They  had  done  nothing  to  earn  their  good  life,  and  yet  theytook  it  for  granted,  with  never  a  word  of  gratitude  or  any  ac-  knowledgment  of  what  he  had  done  for  them.  He  tried  to  teach  them  that  it  all  came  hard,  that  at  eleven  he  supported  his  mother  and  Reggie  by  taking  care  of  the  fire  in  the  [REDACTED]  library  stove,  carrying  the  morning  and  evening  Syracuse  papers,  deliver-  ing  telegrams,  shovelling  walks  in  winter  and  doing  yard  work  in  sum-  mer,  working  in  the  hardware  store  on  Saturdays,  and  pumping  the  organ  in  the  Presbyterian  church  on  Sundays.  As  he  explained  the  importance  and  the  rewards  of  work  and  the  serious-  ness  of  life,  Edward  would  stare  past  his  head,  glassy-eyed,  and  Howard  would  wear  a  bored  smirk.  At  an  age  when  their  father  was  supporting  his  motherand  Reggie,  his  sons  were  " b"tense  concentration,  as  though  he  were  performing  some  difficult  but  necessary  task.  It  was  a  performance  that  Ed-  ward  loved,  partly  because  they  both  knew  what  was  coming.  Their  father  would  strike  the  table  with  the  flat  of  his  hand.  &quot;We're  not  going  to  have  such  goings  on  at  our  table,&quot;  he'd  say.  Howard  would  look  incredulous.  &quot;You  mean  I  can't  drink  milk?&quot;  There'd  be  no  reply.  &quot;You  can't  do  anything  around  here,  Percival,&quot;  Howard  would  say.  &quot;Don't  call  me  Percival,&quot;  Edward  would  reply.  With  the  handle  of  his  spoon,  How-  ard  would  depress  the  tablecloth  to  form  a  crease  where  the  pads  under  it  came  together;  the  crease  marked  a  boundary  between  his  and  Edward's  territories  and  was  necessary,  Howard  insisted,  because  of  Edward's  habit  of  encroaching  on  Howard's  territory  with  his  elbow.  It  was  really  needed  to  annoy  their  father.  By  Howard's  de-  cree,  territorial  violations  were  pun-  ishable  by  a  hit  on  the  upper  arm,  administered  with  a  flick  of  the  wrist  and  the  knuckle  of  the  middle  finger  extended.  Edward,  who  liked  living  on  the  brink,  kept  his  elbow  asclose  to  the  crease  as  he  could  and  tried  to  find  excuses  for  crossing.  There  were  dis-  putes  in  an  undertone  over  whether  his  elbow  had  actually  crossed  and  he  had  a  hit  coming.  Howard  always  found  him  guilty  and  passed  sentence,  and  for  a  few  seconds,  while  Howard  ex-  plained  how  sorry  he  was  to  have  to  do  it,  Edward  tingled  with  suspense.  Then  Howard  hit  him.  The  pain  was  excruciating,  and  Edward  would  dou-  ble  over,  laughing  hysterically  and  weeping  from  pain.  Hearing  aids  came  on.  There  were  39  warnings,  and  their  father  would  ask  rhetorically  if  they  couldn't  have  one  dinner  in  peace.  Edward  carried  a  per-  manent  bruise.  If  everything  else  failed,  Howard  could  often  get  things  started  by  call-  ing  Edward  Percival,  or  Archibald.  Then  he  discovered  a  wonderful  term,  &quot;poop  deck,&quot;  which  sounded  indecent  but  wasn't.  &quot;Poopdeck,  hand  me  the  butter.&quot;  &quot;What  did  you  call  him?&quot;  Sarah  asked.  \xc2\xabPoopdeck.&quot;  Sarah,  loud:  &quot;Howard  used  a  nasty  word.&quot;  Hearing  aids  were  adjusted  and  there  was  debate  about  whether  &quot;poop  deck&quot;  was  anasty  word.  Their  mother  didn't  think  so;  she'd  seen  it  in  novels  and,  she  thought,  in  the  Press  cross-  word.  Their  father  said  Howard  wasn't  to  use  it.  Howard  said  he  had  a  right  to  use  it-it  was  partofa  ship-  and  Edward  didn't  mind  being  called  Poopdeck,  did  you,  Poopdeck?  Their  father  said  Howard  was  only  calling  Edward  that  to  get  something  started  and  he  was  not  to  call  him  that  again  at  the  table  and  that  was  final.  &quot;Percival,  the  butter.&quot;  &quot;Please.&quot;  &quot;Poopdeck,  you  want  your  arm  in  a  sling?&quot;  Sarah,  loud:  &quot;He's  using  that  word  again.&quot;  Howard  was  sent  away  from  the  table.  THEIR  father  seemed  to  get  a  new  hearing  aid  every  yearor  two  as  improved  models  came  out.  Their  mother  got  the  old  one.  They  were  bone-conducting  devices,  held  in  place  behind  one  ear  with  a  narrow  band  of  spring  steel  that  fitted  over  the  head.  A  cord  ran  from  the  bone-conducting  unit  behind  their  father's  ear  down  inside  his  collar  and  emerged  from  his  shirtfront  to  connect  with  a  micro-  phone,  which  clipped  to  a  vest  pocket.  Another  cord  led  from  the  microphone  to  the  battery  pack  in  his  hip  pocket.  A  switch  and  volume  control  were  on  the  microphone.  Sometimes,  after  their  fa-  ther  had  fumbled  with  the  control  and  still  couldn't  hear,  Howard  would  suggest  that  maybe  he  was  sitting  on  the  cord.  The  possibility  that  current  couldn't  get  through  a  wire  because  their  father  was  sitting  on  it  was  one  of  their  standing  jokes.  Whenever  their  father  had  trouble  getting  tuned  in  at  the  table,  Howard  would  trot  out  " b"the  idea:  &quot;I  think  you're  sitting  on  the  cord.&quot;  It  amused  them  even  more  that  their  father  would  always  reply,  &quot;What?  What?&quot;  and  feel  around  un-  der  him.  Their  mother  was  self-conscious  about  having  to  wear  ahearing  aid  and  did  her  hair  so  as  to  conceal  it;  one  had  to  look  closely  to  see  the  cord  that  emerged  from  her  hair  at  the  back  of  her  neck  and  disappeared  into  her  dress.  She  didn't  want  anyone  to  know  about  the  embarrassing  gear  she  wore  under  her  clothes.  Doctors  found  nothing  organically  wrong  with  her  hearing;  her  impairment,  they  said,  was  &quot;sympathetic.&quot;  The  children  re-  ferred  to  the  hearing  aidsas  speakers,  and  before  saying  anything  to  either  parent  would  ask,  &quot;Is  your  speaker  on?&quot;  Edward-thin  and  small-boned-  had  more  passive  ways  than  Howard's  of  resisting  their  father.  He  was  rarely  hungry,  and  at  dinner  invariably  be-  came  nauseated  halfway  through  the  meal.  The  nausea  always  came  sud-  denly,  usually  when  he  had  food  in  his  mouth.  He'd  park  it  (a  family  expres-  sion)  in  a  cheek  and  wait  for  the  nau-  sea  to  pass,  meanwhile  dangling  his  fork  between  two  fingers  and  batting  it  between  thumb  and  little  finger,  day-  dreaming.  Their  father  was  as  dis-  tressed  about  seeing  Edward's  cheek  packed  with  food  he  wasn't  even  chewing  as  he  was  about  Howard's  tricks-and  it  was  food  bought  with  his  hard-earned  money,  the  onlykind  of  money  he  ever  had.  &quot;Chew,&quot;  he'd  exhort  Edward.  Ed-  ward  would  chew  a  couple  of  times  experimentally  and  give  up.  'Watch  me  chew,&quot;  his  father  would  say.  He'd  lean  above  Edward  and  solemnly  chew.  The  sessions  of  chewing  instruction  were  frequent,  and  Edward  came  to  know  every  pore  on  the  shiny  plane  at  the  tip  of  his  father's  nose.  The  image  of  hisfa-  ther's  big  face  above  him,  his  gray  eyes  peering  down  through  steel-rimmed  bifocals,  was  often  what  he  remem-  bered  when  he  thought  of  his  father,  the  jaw  going  in  a  slightly  circular  fashion,  like  a  cow's.  He  was  fully  grown  before  he  discovered  pleasure  in  food,  that  things  he  thought  he  hated  -peas,  for  example-were  really  rather  good.  He  was  never  able  to  eat  rice.  It  evoked  a  picture  of  his  father  at  lunch,  about  to  pour  cream  into  a  bowl  of  steaming  rice  mixed  with  brown  sugar  and  butter,  saying,  &quot;Oh,  boy!,&quot;  which  was  his  way  of  expressing  per-  fect  contentment.  Years  later,  Edward  would  feel  theold  nausea  rising.  He  was  surprised  to  discover  that  Howard,  in  his  fifties,  still  became  emotional  on  the  subject  of  [REDACTED]  baked  beans.  Their  father,  who  adored  them-their  mother  baked  them  all  day  until  they  were,  as  their  father  said,  nutty-once  forced  Howard  to  eat  them  when  he  was  very  small.  Howard  threw  up.  Edward  rather  liked  556e6974656420537461746573baked  beans.  Their  father  never  merely  liked  or  disliked  something;he  felt  compelled  to  impose  his  opinions  on  his  family.  These  opinions  involved  everything  from  his  view  of  life  to  the  food  he  ate,  the  Republican  Party,  the  make  of  car  he  drove.  Not  eating  the  food  that  he  believed  in  was  subversive.  Every  meal  that  Edward  couldn't  finish  repre-  sented  a  stalemate,  or  evena  defeat,  for  hisfather.  In  prepubescence,  Edward  gazed  at  his  face  in  the  mirrora  great  deal  and  studied  the  effects  he  could  get  with  it.  Once  he  discovered  that  a  strip  of  toothpaste  artfully  placed  just  below  a  nostril  produced  an  effect  that  could  easily  turn  his  father's  queasy  stomach.  The  result  was  more  than  he  could  have  hoped  for.  He  waited  until  every-  one  was  at  the  table  before  joining  them.  Sarah,  sitting  opposite,  was  the  first  to  notice.  In  a  loud  voice  she  announced  that  Edward  wasmaking  her  sick.  Their  father  looked,  and  a  few  moments  later  rose,  napkin  over  mouth,  and  left  the  room.  Curious  about  how  he'd  look  with-  out  eyebrows,  Edward  shaved  one  off  with  his  father's  razor.  His  father  was  always  conscious  of  the  image  that  the  family  presented,  and  Edward  could  sense  his  discomfort  at  having  to  sit  in  church  with  a  son  who  had  only  one  eyebrow.  After  Howard  persuaded  Ed-  ward  that  the  new  eyebrow  would  grow  in  bushier  than  its  mate,  he  shaved  off  the  second  one  so  that  they'd  match.  When  Edward  had  become  acon-  spicuously  unsuccessful  father,  who  quarrelled  with  his  children  over  their  pot-smoking,  their  rock  music,  their  language,  their  clothes,  until  they  had  become  alienated,  he'd  think  with  some  respect  and  sympathy  of  hisfa-  ther's  ability  to  survive,  particularly  as  he  and  Howard  grew  older.  Howard  was  addicted  to  strange  projects,  some  " b" of  them  involving  firecrackers.  When  he  was  about  thirteen,  tosee  what  would  happen  he  dropped  a  lighted  firecracker  into  an  empty  ink  bottle  and  quickly  put  the  stopper  in  the  bot-  tle.  What  he  learned  was  that  the  bottle  blows  up  and  sprays  the  experi-  menter  with  bits  of  inky  glass.  For  days,  Howard's  face  was  flecked  with  dark  blue  freckles.  He  and  Edward  decided  Howard  must  have  blinked  at  the  instant  of  the  explosion,  since  they  could  find  no  glass  in  his  eyes  and  since  he  could  still  see.  The  walls  of  his  room  were  speckled  with  the  glass.  Impressed  by  a  contortionist  he  had  seen  in  vaudeville,  Howard  spent  a  few  weeks  trying  to  get  a  foot  behind  his  head  by  tightening  a  belt  that  was  looped  around  head  and  foot.  He  aban-  doned  the  project  when  he  had  a  heel  within  a  couple  of  inches  of  his  fore-  head.  He  was  strong,  and  proud  of  his  muscles,  and  often  scuffled  with  their  ninety-five-pound  mother,  who  had  never  quite  grown  up.  Once,  as  they  wrestled  for  some  object-a  ball,  a  report  card-without  intending  to  he  tossed  her  over  his  hip.  There  was  an  audible  crack  as  she  hit  the  floor.  &quot;Howie,&quot;  she  said  as  she  lay  there,  &quot;I  think  you  broke  my  ankle.&quot;  She  was  on  crutches  for  more  than  a  month.  Howard  had  nearly  perfect  teeth,  with  one  slight  imperfection-a  mi-  nute  hole  between  the  two  upper  front  teeth,  through  which  he  could  squirt  a  tiny  water  jet.  He'd  take  a  drink  of  water  at  the  table  and  sit  smiling,  to  uncover  the  hole.  His  mother,  seeing  him  looking  at  her  with  a  foolish  grin  and  knowing  what  was  coming,  would  say,  &quot;Howie,  don't  you  dare!&quot;  At  which  he'd  give  her  a  small  squirt.  She'd  no  sooner  get  her  glasses  wiped  off  than  he'd  squirt  her  again.  She'd  laugh  with  delight.  Howard  would  have  enough  water  left  to  give  Ed-  ward  a  shotor  two  on  the  ear.  Their  father,  outnumbered  as  usual,  would  be  silent.  He  may  have  thought  it  was  funny.  There  was  a  series  of  four  or  five  automobile  accidents  that  started  when  Howard  was  fourteen.  His  father  had  made  the  mistake  of  showing  him  how  todrive.  Edward  was  eager  to  have  Howard  teach  him,  and  at  the  first  opportunity,  when  their  parents  were  out  playing  bridge,  they  pushed  their  father's  car  out  of  the  garage  and  got  in.  Howard  started  the  engine  and  they  roared  into  the  garage,  crushing  the  Easy  Washer  against  a  laundry  tub  and  knocking  the  tub  off  its  supports.  Howard  made  the  first  of  the  reports  that  came  close  to  becoming  a  habit.  He  phoned  the  house  where  his  par-  ents  were,  asked  for  his  father,  and  said,  &quot;Dad,  I  just  had  an  accident.&quot;  Accidents  usually  took  place  at  night.  They'd  wake  their  father  to  break  the  news,  and  he'd  sit  on  the  edge  of  his  bed,  trying  to  comprehend  through  the  fog  of  half  sleep  and  saying  in  a  sing-  song,  &quot;Oh,  oh,  oh,  oh,  oh,oh,  ohhh.&quot;  In  the  last  and  worst  of  them,  in  day-  light,  when  he  was  through  school  and  returning  home  from  his  first  job,  Edward  collided  at  an  intersection  with  an  old  Reo  Speed  Wagon,  whose  driver,  a  short  bald  man  who  worked  on  a  W.P.A.  project  and  was  the  fa-  ther  of  four  children,  was  pitched  out  think  about  it.&quot;  the  door  on  his  head.  He  lay  on  his  back  in  the  roadway,  dead.  EDWARD  lived  with  a  jumble  of  images  of  his  father;  some  of  them  in  time  became  moving,  includ-  ing  that  worried  face  hovering  over  him,  showing  him  how  to  chew.  An-  other  was  of  his  father  sprawled  flat  on  his  face  on  Genesee  Street,  in  New  [REDACTED],  while  a  car  skidded  to  a  stop  a  few  feet  from  him.  It  was  a  Sunday,  and  the  children  wanted  ice-cream  cones.  Their  father,  of  course,  said  they  didn't  need  ice-cream  cones,  but  their  mother  shamed  him,  as  she  al-  ways  shamed  him:  &quot;Honest,  Lewis,  you're  so  tight  you  squeak.&quot;  So  he  was  crossing  the  street,  red-faced  and  mad,  to.  get  cones  for  the  children,  who  were  waiting  in  thecar  with  their  " b"mother.  Seeing  a  car  bearing  down  on  him,  he  started  to  sprint.  He  tripped,  or  slipped,  on  a  streetcar  track  and  fell  flat.  They  all  watched,  horrified.  Their  mother  screamed.  The  driver  managed  to  stop.  Their  father  got  up,  picked  up  his  glasses  and  cap,  and  completed  his  mission.  He  handed  the  children  their  cones  and  got  into  the  car  without  a  word.  As  they  drove  home,  their  mother  wept  quietly  on  the  front  seat  and  the  children,  in  back,  licked  their  ice  cream  without  plea-  sure.  There  was  their  father  the  golfer  with  the  flossy  waggle,  and  the  skier  with  the  strange  posture.  Occasion-  ally,  on  a  Sunday  in  winter,  wrapped  in  blankets,  the  family  drove  in  their  1922  Buick  open  touring  car  with  isinglass  curtains  to  the  village  of  Sau-  quoit,  south  of  [REDACTED],  where  a  farmer  waited  with  a  sleigh  and  a  team  of  horses.  They  rode  on  straw  under  heavy  blankets  that  smelled  of  a  cow  barn  for  the  two  miles  uphill  to  the  little  house  they  owned  overlooking  the  Sauquoit  [REDACTED].  The  unpaved  road  was  snowed  in,  and  the  sleigh  went  through  barnyards  and  across  fields.  They  had  a  fire  in  the  dining-  room  stove  and  ate  a  hot  meal  that  their  mother  had  put  up  in  aluminum  containers  that  fitted  into  an  insulated  cylinder  with  a  heated  flat  stone  at  the  bottom-slices  from  a  leg  of  lamb,  mashed  potatoes,  gravy,  and  cauli-  flower.  They  used  a  privy  inside  a  woodshed  attached  to  the  house.  They  skied  through  a  planted  pinewood  to  a  snow-covered  cornfield  with  a  steep  slope,  and  spent  the  afternoon  there,  their  father  standing  straight  up  on  his  skis,  feet  together  and  arms  extended  from  his  sides  like  a  tightrope  walker.  He  said  that  was  the  correct  form,  and  he  liked  to  getthe  form  right.  (He  had  played  high-school  football  and  base-  ball  in  [REDACTED]  and  church-league  baseball  in  [REDACTED],  andhad  a  rather  showy  throwing  motion;  when  they  played  catch  with  him,  Howard  and  Edward  called  him,  in  an  undertone,  Joe  Form.)  Using  their  skis,  they  pushed  up  a  mound  of  snow  and  com-  pacted  it  to  make  a  jump.  The  farmer  returned  with  the  sleigh  in  the  late  afternoon,  lighted  a  lantern,  hung  it  from  a  hook  beside  his  raised  seat,  and  jovially  tucked  them  in-except  for  tireless  Howard,  who  insisted  on  ski-  ing  down.  There  was  their  father  the  competi-  tor,  who  had  to  be  taking  on  someone  at  something  every  day  to  keep  his  juices  flowing.  He  always  drove  home  for  lunch  to  have  a  half  hour  of  cards  with  their  mother.  For  years  the  game  was  Russian  bank,  a  two-handed  form  of  solitaire;  later,  it  was  cribbage;  still  later,  canasta;  and,  after  he  retired,  Scrabble.  He  kept  a  running  score  in  a  little  notebook,  and  could  tell  her  at  any  time  how  many  points  he  was  ahead.  There  were  often  arguments  over  who  was  cheating  whom,  she  joshing,  he  dead  serious.  He  loved  bridge-it  challenged  his  ability  to  keep  track  of  the  cards  played,  and  tested  his  ingenuity  in  making  difficult  contracts.  He  didn't  like  playing  with  people  who  took  the  game  less  seri-  ously  than  he  did,  who  talked  and  didn't  pay  attention,  or,  as  he  would  say,  didn't  apply  themselves.  Howard,  who  didn't  like  to  play  when  his  father  was  in  the  game,  was  occasionally  dragooned  into  making  a  fourth  when  no  one  else  was  available.  His  father  may  have  suspected  there  was  some  justice  in  his  wife's  criticism  that  he  was  too  hard  on  Howard.  As  Howard  went  about  making  himself  comfort-  able,  hauling  upan  easy  chair  and  settling  into  it  sideways  to  the  table,  his  legs  over  an  arm,  his  father  would  try  to  restrain  himself,  but  several  deep  breaths  gave  him  away.  Howard  kept  up  a  silly  chatter  guaranteed  to  annoy  his  father,  who  couldn't  abide  silliness.  Howard  had  become  fond  of  the  words  &quot;nicely&quot;  and  &quot;extremely,&quot;  possibly  from  reading  Damon  Runyon  stories  in  Collier's.  &quot;That's  very  nicely&quot;  and  &quot;That's  extremely,&quot;  he'd  say,  and  sometimes  he'd  combine  them:  &quot;''That's  extremely  nicely.&quot;  If  the  game  lasted  long  enough,  he  might  wind  up  with  one  leg  on  the  back  of  the  chair  and  his  head  almost  under  the  table.  He  would  finally  succeed  in  provoking  a  confrontation.  Once,  his  father  told  him  sharply  that  he  couldn't  pass.  &quot;Your  partner  bid  two  no-trump,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  have  to  say  something.&quot;  Howard,  not  wanting  to  take  a  chance  on  getting  stuck  with  the  bid,  stalled.  &quot;How  do  we  get  out  of  this,  Poopdeck?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;How  about  three  no-spades?&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;What's  your  bid?&quot;  his  father  asked.  Loud,  defiant:  &quot;Three  no-spades.&quot;  " b"His  father  threw  down  his  cards.  &quot;Lord  help  us,&quot;  he  said.  The  game  was  over.  Howard  raised  his  head  and  looked  innocently  around.  &quot;Something  the  matter,  Poopdeck?&quot;  S  a  lover,  their  father  was  unusual,  and  even  playful.  When  courting  their  mother  (both  worked  for  a  wholesale  building-  supply  firm,  she  as  a  stenog-  rapher,  he  as  a  salesman),  he'd  call  on  her  in  the  evening  with  a  ball  glove  and  ball,  she  once  told  the  children,  and  they'd  play  catch  in  her  parents'  side  yard,  he  gallantly  letting  her  use  the  glove.  Even  in  their  sixties  they'd  occa-  sionally  chase  each  other  out  of  the  kitchen  with  a  water  pistol  they  kept  there,  laughing  like  school-  children.  They  became  hys-  terical  once  when  the  hot-  water  bottle  they  werethrowing  at  each  other  in  their  bedroom  broke  and  soaked  a  bed.  Another  night,  unable  to  restrain  herself  when  she  saw  him  praying  on  his  knees  beside  his  bed,  she  took  the  Bible,  kept  on  a  night-  stand  between  their  beds,  and  threw  it,  hitting  him  on  the  shoulder.  He  thought  that  was  hilarious.  Although  for  much  of  the  time  he  carried  the  weight  of  the  world  on  his  shoulders,  when  mightily  amused  he  went  all  out,  laughing  uncontrollably,  tears  stream-  ing  down  his  face.  He'd  pull  himself  together,  blow  his  nose,  and  then  have  a  second  seizure.  THEIR  father  had  given  them  a  good  life,  a  wonderful  life,  as  the  appreciative  Sarah  sometimes  said;  he  worried  about  them,  undoubtedly  loved  them,  and  tried  to  be  just.  And  yet,  it  seemed  to  Edward,  both  sons  had  withheld  affection  and  given  him  only  grudging  respect.  Since  Edward  couldn't  believe  that  he  and  Howard  were  mean  by  nature,  he  looked  for  the  fault  elsewhere.  He  always  came  back  to  the  child  on  the  train  and  the  inse-  curity  and  despair  he  suspected  the  boy  had  experienced,  possibly  even  before  his  trip  to  [REDACTED],  until  an  exagger-  ated  sense  of  anxiety  had  become  per-  manently  established  and  was  later  in-  flicted  on  his  sons.  Almost  too  late,  Edward  pitied,  if  not  loved,  his  father.  Edward  wondered  why  his  grandfa-  ther,  a  lawyer  and  member  of  a  pros-  perous  family,  hadn't  taken  his  son  to  [REDACTED]  instead  of  sending  him  off  by  himself  at  age  five.  The  answer  seemed  to  be  that  he  was  monstrously  irresponsible.  He  married  two  more  times,  left  more  children  around  the  country,  wenton  the  gold  rush  to  the  Klondike,  and  died  chasing  a  rumor  of  gold  in  British  [REDACTED]  (now  Be-  lize),  where  he  was  buried.  Why  hadn't  the  boy's  mother  met  him  in  New  York,  or  even  in  [REDACTED]?&quot;  Both  parents  seemed  to  have  set  him  up  for  whatever  might  have  happened  to  a  small  child  making  such  a  long  jour-  ney  alone.  It  may  have  been  inevitable  that  this  touching  child,  this  David  Copper-  field,  metamorphosed  into  a  ponder-  ous  apostle  of  get-up-and-go.  Hisup-  bringing  had  taught  him  about  the  snares  set  for  the  unwary,  a  lesson  made  urgent  by  the  example  of  his  own  father,  and  may  have  accounted  for  the  harsh,  bullying  tone,  for  the  implication  that  his  sons  would  turn  out  like  Uncle  Reggie  (he  never  men-  tioned  his  father)  unless  they  shaped  up.  It  was  the  implication  and  the  tone  that  turned  them  off.  Contemplating  his  own  disaster,  Edward  wondered  why  anyone  who  doesn't  have  to  ever  becomes  a  father.  &quot;'There  is  no  one  right  way  to  bring     up  children,&quot;  a  therapist  once  told  him,  to  ease  his  guilt  after  he  had  poured  out  his  own  meanness  as  a  father.  There  seemed  to  be  only  wrong  ways.  He  had  thought  that  all  he  needed  to  do  was  to  avoid  his  father's  example.  No  lectures  on  getting  ahead  and  being  somebody.  Let  the  kid  park  all  the  food  he  wanted  in  his  cheek  or  blow  up  ink  bottles  or  spend  his  eve-  nings  trying  to  get  his  foot  behind  his  head.  Keep  the  hearing  aid  turned  on,  and  keep  smiling.  As  it  turned  out,  Edward  was  un-  prepared  for  the  reality  of  the  early  seventies  in  southern  Marin  County.  By  the  time  he  calmed  down  and  be-  gan  seeing  a  therapist,his  seventeen-  year-old  son  was  living  in  a  shack  with  a  girl,  and  his  fifteen-year-old  daughter  was  scarcely  speaking  to  him.  He  was  shocked  and  depressed.  On  the  day  his  son  moved  out  of  the  house,  Edward  could  barely  contain  his  frustration.  &quot;How  do  you  expect  to  have  any  kind  of  life?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Or  have  emything'  Your  mother  and  I  work  hard  so  we  can  live  here,  and  you  thumb  your  nose  at  what  makes  it  possible-at  the  whole  idea  of  making  something  of  your  life.  Believe  me,  it  doesn't  come  easy.&quot;  Then  he  stopped.  For  a  moment,  he  could  hear  Howard  saying,  in  an  undertone,  &quot;He  forgot  money  doesn't  grow  on  trees.&quot;"