 b"LIGHTED  windows:  cutouts  of  home  in  the  night.  When  Nils  came  from  his  meeting  he  turned  the  key,  but  the  door  was  quickly  opened  from  the  inside-Te-  resa  was  there,  a  terribly  vivid  face.  The  law  classified  her  as  Colored;  now  the  blood  of  her  Xhosa  and  Javanese  ancestry  surfaced,  dark  and  glowing.  Her  thin  feet  clutched  the  floorboards;  she  was  wearing  her  cotton  nightgown  that  in  bed  he  would  drawaway  ten-  derly,  the  curtain  of  her  sweet  body.  &quot;They've  taken  my  mother.  Robbie  and  Francie  and  my  mother.&quot;  He  must  have  said  something-  &quot;No!  Good  God!&quot;-but  was  at  once  in  awe  of  her,  of  what  had  happened  to  her  while  he  was  not  there.  The  ques-  tions  were  a  tumble  of  rock  upon  them:  When?  Where?  Who  told  her?  &quot;Jimmy.  From  a  call  box  in  Johan-  nesburg.  He  didn't  have  enough  change,  we  were  cut  off,  I  nearly  went  crazy,  I  didn't  know  what  number  to  call  back.  Then  he  phoned  again.  They  came  to  the  house  and  took  my  mother  and  Francie  as  well  as  Robbie.&quot;  &quot;'Your  mother!  I  can't  believe  it!  How  could  they  take  that  old  woman?  She  doesn't  even  know  what  politics  is  -what  could  they  possibly  detain  her  for?&quot;  His  wife  stood  there  in  the  entrance,  barring  his  and  her  way  into  their  home.  &quot;I  don't  know  ...  because  she's  Robbie's  mother.  Robbie  and  Francie  were  with  her  in  the  house.&quot;  &quot;Well,  Francie  still  lives  with  her.  But  why  was  Robert  there?&quot;  &quot;Who  knows-maybe  he  just  went  home.&quot;  In  the  night,  in  trouble,  the  kitch-  en  seems  the  room  to  go  to;  the  bed-  room  is  always  too  happy  and  intimate  a  place,  and  the  living  room,  with  its  books  and  big  shared  desk  and  pictures  and  the  flowers  he  buys  for  her  every  week  from  the  same  Indian  street  vender,  is  too  definitive  of  the  life  the  couple  have  made  for  them-  selves,  apart.  He  puts  on  the  kettle  for  herb  tea.  She  can't  sit,  although  he  does,  to  encourage  her.  She  keeps  pulling  at  the  lobes  of  her  ears  in  a  travesty  of  the  endearing  gesture  with  which  she  ha-  bitually  feels  for  the  safety  of  the  ear-  rings  he  has  given  her.  &quot;They  came  at  four  o'clock  yesterday  morning.&quot;  &quot;And  you  only  get  told  tonight?&quot;  &quot;Nils,  how  was  Jimmy  to  know?  It  was  only  when  the  neighbors  found  someone  who  knew  where  he  works  that  he  got  a  message.  He's  been  run-  ning  around  all  day  trying  to  find  where  they're  being  held.  And  every  time  he  goes  near  a  police  station  he's afraid  they'll  take  him  in  as  well.  That  brother  of  mine  isn't  exactly  the  bravest  man  you  could  meet  ..  .&quot;  &quot;Poor  devil.  D'you  blame  him?  If  they  can  take  your  mother,  then  any-  body  in  the  family-&quot;  Her  nose  and  those  earlobes  go  red  as  if  with  anger,  but  it  is  her  way  of  fiercely  weeping.  She  strokes  harder  and  harder  the  narrow-brained  head  ofthe  Afghan  bitch,  her  Niki.  She  had  never  been  allowed  to  keep  a  dog  in  her  mother's  house;  her  mother  said  they  were  unclean.  &quot;It's  so  cold  in  that  town  in  winter.  What  will  my  mother  have  to  sleep  on  tonight  in  a  cell?&quot;  He  gets  up  to  take  her  into  his  arms;  the  kettle  screams  and  screams,  as  if  for  her.  N  bed  in  the  dark,  Teresa  talked,  cried,  secure  in  the  Afghan's  warmth  along  one  side  of  her,  and  her  lover-husband's  on  the  other.  She  did  not  have  to  tell  him  she  cried  because  she  was  warm  and  her  mother  cold.  She  could  not  sleep-they  could  not  sleep-because  her  mother,  who  had  stifled  her  with  thick  clothing,  suffo-  cating  servility,  smothering  religion,  was  cold.  One  of  the  reasons  why  she  loved  him-not  the  reason  why  she  had  married  him-was  torid  herself  of  her  mother.  To  love  this  Swede,  some-  one  from  the  other  side  of  the  world,  a  world  unknown  to  her  mother,  was  to  embrace  snow  and  ice,  unknown  to  her  mother.  He  freed  her  of  the  family,  fetid  sun.  For  him,  she  was  the  being  who  melted  the  hard,  cold  edges  of existence,  the  long  black  nights  that  had  blotted  out  half  the  days  of  his  childhood,  the  sheer  of  ice  whose  austerity  was  repeated,   by  some  mimesis  of  f  environment,  in  the  cut  of  his  jaw.  She  came  to  him  out  of  the  houseful,  the  streetful,  of  people  as  crowded  together  as  the  blood  of  different  races  mixed  in  their  arteries.  He  came  to  her  out  of  the  " b"silent  rooms  of  an  only  child,  where  an  engraving  ofhis  countryman  Lin-  naeus  hung  in  lamplight,  and  out  of  the  scientist's  solitary  journeys  in  a  glass  bell  among  fish  on  the  seabed;  he  himself  had  grown  up  to  be  an  ich-  thyologist,  not  a  botanist.  They  had  the  desire  for  each  other  of  a  couple  who  would  always  be  strangers.  They  had  the  special  close-  ness  of  a  couple  who  be-  longed  to  nobody  else.  And  that  night,  relating  it  to  him,  she  relived  the  meekness  of  her  mother,  the  subservience  to  an  un-  feeling,  angry  man  (the  father,  now  dead),  the  acceptance  of  the  ghetto  place  the  law  allotted  to  the  mother  and  her  children,  the  attempts  even  to  genteel  it  with  lace  curtains  and  sprayed  room-fresheners  -all  that  had  disgusted  Teresa  and  now  filled  her  with  anguish  because  &quot;How  will  a  woman  like  my  mother  stand  up  to  prison?  What  will  they  be  able  to  do  to  her?&quot;  He  knew  she  was  struggling  with  the  awful  discovery  that  she  loved  her  mother,  who  was  despicable;  being  im-  prisoned  surely  didn't  alter  the  fact  that  her  mother  was  so,  proved  over  many  omissions  and  years?  He  knew  his  Te-  resa  well  enough  not  to  tell  her  the  discovery  was  not  shameful;  that  would  bring  it  out  into  the  open  and  she  would  accuse  herself  of  sentimentality.  Her  mother  was  sentimental:  those  bronzed  baby  shoes  of  the  men  and  women  who  had  not  grown  up  careful  to  stay  out  of  trouble-who  had  mar-  ried  a  blond  foreigner  with  a  strange  accent,  or  taken  to  drink  and  bank-  ruptcy,  or  got  mixed  up  in  politics,  secret-police  files,  arrests  in  the  small  hours  of  the  morning.  He  listened  and  stroked  her  hair,  sheltered  her  folded  hand  between  his  neck  and  shoulder  as  she  cried  and  raged,  pitying  and  blam-  ing-and  cursing  (she  who  kept  of  her  mother's  genteelism  at  least  her  pure  mouth)  those  fucking  bastards  of  gov-  ernment  and  police  for  what  they  had  done,  done  not  only  at  four  in  the  morning  in  that  house,  with  its  smell  of  cooking  oil  and  mothballs,  but  for  gen-  erations,  tearing  up  lives  with  their  decrees  on  bits  of  paper,  breaking  down  doors  in  power  of  arrest,  shutting  peo-  ple  off  from  life  in  their  cells.  Later  in  the  night  when  he  thought  she  might  at  last  have  fallen  asleep,  she  sat  up  straight.  &quot;What  will  she  tell  them?  What  does  she  know?&quot;  She  meant  about  Robbie.  Teresa  and  thatbrother,  Robbie,  were  the  ones  who  had  got  mixed  up  in  politics.  Living  in  this  backwater  coastal  town  inthe  company  of  marine  biologists  who  were  content  to  believe  all  species  are  interesting  and  to  inquire  no  fur-  ther  into  questions  of  equality,  Teresa  and  her  Swedish  husband  belonged  to  progressive  organizations  that  walked  the  limit  of  but  did  not  transgress  le-  gality,  going  no  further  than  protest  meetings.  This  was  a  respectable  cover  for  the  occasional  clandestine  support  they  gave  Robbie,  who  really  was  mixed  up  not  just  in  avowals  but  in  the  deeds  of  revolution.  Sometimes  they  supplied  money;  sometimes  shelter,  when  he  arrived  unannounced  in  the  middle  of  the  night,  with  the  need  to  go  underground  for  a  day  or  two. &quot;Robbie  won't  have  told  her  any-  thing.  You  know  how,  even  if  he  ever  wanted  to,  she'd  stop  her  ears,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It's  not  what  she  Zmows.  She's  never  known  anything  about  us.  But  they  won't  believe  that!  They'll  go  on  interrogating  her-&quot;  &quot;Don't  you  think  they'll  soon  dis-  cover  it-that  she's  never  known  any-  thing  that  would  matter  to  them?&quot;  His  slow  voice  was  the  anchor  from  which  she  bobbed  frantically.  Suddenly  her  anger  spilled  in  another  direction.  &quot;What  the  hell  got  into  him?  What  did  Robbie  go  there  for?  How  could  he  dare  go  to  that  house?  How  could  he  possibly  not  know  that  there,  of  all  places,  would  be  where  they'd  pick  him  up!  The  idiocy!  The  self-indulgence!  What  did  he  want,  c  home-cooked  meal?  I  don't  know  what's  gone  wrong  with  the  movement,  how  they  can  let  people  behave  so  undisciplinedly,  so  childishly.  .  .  .  How  can  we  ever  hope  to  see  the  end,  if  that's  how  they  be-  have?  .  .  .  The  idiot!  Just  handed  over  -yes,  do  come  in  and  meet  my  mother  and  sister-quite  a  social  occasion  in  the  family,  all  ready  to  be  carted  off  to  prison  together.  I  hope  he  realizes  what  he's  done.  Some  revolution,  left  " b"to  people  like  him.  ...  How  could  he  go  near  that  house?&quot;  They  did  not  call  each  other  by  the  en-  dearments  used  com-  mercially  by  every  pa-  tronizing  saleswoman  and  every  affected  ac-  tress-'&quot;love''  and  &quot;darling''-but  had  their  own,  in  his  lan-  guage.  &quot;Min  lille  lop-  pa,  we  don't  know  what  his  reasons  might  have  been-&quot;  His  &quot;little  flea&quot;  beat  the  pillows  with  her  fist,  frightening  her  dog  off  the  bed.  &quot;There  can't  be  any  reason.  Except  she  ruined  them  all,  for  everything,  for  the  revolution,  too.  He's  no  different  from  my  other  brother,  in  the  end  -he  goes  crawling  back  under  his  mummy's  skirt.  .  ..  You  don't  know  those people,  that  family-&quot;  He  went  to  the  kitchen  to  fetch  her  a  glass  of  hot  milk  at  four  in  the  morning.  While  the  milk  was  heating  on  the  stove  he  stood  at  the  kitchen  window  and  put  his  palm  on  the  pane,  feeling  the  dark  out  there,  the  hour  of  the  end  of  night  into  which,  forty-eight  hours  before,  mother,  brother,  and  sister  had  been  led  to  police  cars.  IN  the  morning,  she  didn't  go  to  work.  She  was  soiled  and  blurred  by  helplessness.  He  had  been  in  her  family  house  only  a  few  awkward  times  over  their  seven  years  together,  but  he  saw  for  the  first  time  that  she  would  resemble  her  mother  if  she  were  ever  to  grow  old  and  afraid.  With  her  lips  drawn  back  in  pain,  her  teeth  looked  long-the  face  of  a  victim.  Distraught,  her  beauty  dragged  out  of  shape,  there  was  the  reversion  to  physical  type  that  comes  with  age;  someday  he  himself  would  become  the  listing  old  Scandina-  vian  hulk  who  was  his  father  or  his  uncle.  He  begged  her  to  take  one  of  his  tranquillizers,  but  she  wouldn't-she  had  a  horror  of  drugs,  of  drink,  of  anything  she  had  seen  give  others  power  over  the  individual  personality.  He  had  always  privately  thought  this  came  subconsciously  from  her  back-  ground,  where  people  of  one  color  were  submitted  to  the  will  of  those  of  an-  other.  He  went  to  the  Institute  for  an  hour  to  set  his  team  the  tasks  ofthe  day  and  explain  why  they  both  would  be  absent  -in  a  humbler  capacity  Teresa,  too,  was  employed  there,  their  marriage  and  his  encouragement  having  let  her  satisfy  her  longing  for  some  scientific  education.  When  his  colleagues  asked  what  he  was  going  to  do,  he  realized  he  didn't  know.  If  it  turned  out  that  Te-  resa's  family  were  detained  under  Sec-  tion  29,  they  would  have  no  access  to  lawyers  or  relatives.  Between  his  col-  leagues'  expressions  of  sympathy  and support  he  saw  them  share  regarding  silences:  they  could  have  predicted  this  sort  of  disaster,  inconceivable  in  their  own  lives,  as  a  consequence  ofhis  kind  of  marriage.  Back  home  he  found  her  talking  on  the  telephone.  She  was  clutching  the  receiver  in  both  hands,  her  feet  were  bare  and  wet,  and  the  dog-the  dog  had  undergone  a  change,  too,  shrunk  to  a  bony  frame  plastered  with  fringes  of  wet  fur.  She  had  bathed  the  dog?  On  this  day?  She  saw  his  face  but  was  hysterically  concentrated  on  what  she  was  hearing,  signalled,  Don't  interrupt,  be  quiet!  He  put  his  arm  round  her,  and  one  hand  left  the  earpiece  and  groped  up  for  his  and  held  it  tightly.  She  was  cut-  ting  into  the  gabble  on  the  other  end:  &quot;But  I  must  be  able  to  reach  you!  Isn't  there  anywhere  I  can  phone?  If  I  don't  hear  from  you,  who  will  tell  me  what's  happening?  .  ..  Listen  Jimmy,  Jimmy,  listen,  I'm  not  blaming  you.  ...  But  if  I  can't  phone  you  at  work,  then  ...  No!  No!  That  isn't  good  enough,  d'you  hear  me,  Jimmy-&quot;  There  was  a  moment  when  he  tried  " b"  to  hold  steady  the  shifting  gaze  of  her  eyes.  She  put  down  the  phone.  &quot;Call  box  again.  And  I've  forgotten  the  number  he  just  gave  me.  I've  been  waiting  the  whole  morning  for  him  to  call  back,  and  now  ..  .  I  didn't  know  how  to  get  myself  away  from  sitting  here  looking  at  that  phone-do  any-  thing,  anything.  ...  He  phoned  just  after  you  left  and  said  he  had  a  lawyer  friend  of  a  friend,  someone  I've  never  heard  of,  he  was  going  to  find  out  details,  something  about  approaching  a  magistrate.&quot;  The  phone  sprang  alive  again  and  she  stared  at  it;  he  picked  it  up.  There  was  the  voice  of  her  brother,  hesitant,  stumbling:  &quot;Ma  and  them,  they  in  under  Section  29.&quot;  She  sat  at  the  phone  while  he  tried  to  activate  the  house  as  if  it  were  a  stopped  clock.  To  keep  them  going  there  would  have  to  be  lunch  (he  cooked  it),  later  the  lights  switched  on,  the  time  for  news  on  television.  But  she  couldn't  eat  not  knowing  if  her  mother  was  able  to  eat  what  there  would  be  in  a  plate  pushed  under  a  cell  door,  she  couldn't  read  by  lamplight  because  there  was  darkness  in  a  cell,  and  the  news-there  was  no  news  when  people  were  de-  tained  under  Section  29.  She  tele-  phoned  friends  and  could  not  remem-  ber  what  they  had  said.  She  telephoned  a  doctor  because  she  suddenly  had  the  idea  her  mother  had  low  blood  pressure  or  high  blood  pressure-not  sure  which-and  she  wanted  to  know  whether  her  mother  could  have  a  stroke  and  die  from  the  one  or  collapse  from  the  other  in  a  prison.  She  did  not  want  to  go  to  bed.  She  brought  out  a  small  cracked  photograph  of  her  mother  holding  a  baby  (Robbie,  she  identified)  with  a  cross-looking  tiny  girl  standing  by  (herself).  A  piece  of  a  man's  coat  sleeve  showed  where  the  rest  of  the  photograph  had  been  roughly  cut  off.  The  missing  figure  was  her  father.  Exhausted,  the  two  of  them  were  up  again  until  after  mid-  night  while  she  talked  to  him  about  her  mother,  was  filled  with  curiosity  and  flashes  of  understanding  about  her  mother,  the  monotony  and  smallness  of  her  mother's  life.  &quot;And  it  has  to  be  this  -the  only  big  thing  that's  ever  hap-  pened  to  herhas  to  be  this.&quot;  Her  whole  face  trembled.  He  suffered  with  her.  He  reminded  himself  that  it  is  a  common  occurrence  that  people  talk  with  love  about  one  they  have  despised  and  re-  sented  once  that  person  is  dead.  And  to  be  in  prison  under  Section  29,  nobody  knew  where,  was  to  be  dead  to  the  world  where  one  did  not  deserve  to  be  loved.  In  bed,  she  would  not  (of  course)  take  a  sleeping  pill,  but  they  had  each  other.  He  made  love  to  her  while  her  tears  smeared  them  both,  and  that  put  her  blessedly  to  sleep.  Now  and  then  she  gave  the  hiccupping  sigh  of  a  com-  forted  child,  and  he  woke  at  once  and  lifted  his  head,  watching  over  her.  There  was  asmell  of  clean  dog  fur  in  the  bed  that  second  night.  TERESA.&quot;  He  woke  to  find  she  was  al-  ready  bathed  and  dressed.  She  turned  " b"her  head  to  him  from  the  bedroom  doorway  when  he  spoke  her  name;  her  hair  was  drawn  away  tightly  from  her  cheekbones  and  ears,  held  by  combs.  Again  something  had  happened  to  her  in  his  absence-this  time  while  she  was  beside  him  but  they  were  parted  in  sleep.  She  was  ready  to  leave  the  house  long  before  it  was  time  to  go  to  work:  going  first  to  see  a  woman  lawyer  whom  they'd  heard  speak  at  protest  meetings  against  detention  without  trial.  He  agreed  it  was  a  good  idea.  That  was  what  must  have  come  to  her  overnight,  among  these  other  things:  if  she  was  right  about  her  mother's  hypertension  (or  whatever  it  was),  Jimmy  must  get  a  statement  from  her  doctor  confirming  a  poor  state  of  health  -that  might  get  her  released,  or  at  least  insure  special  diet  and  treatment  inside;  and  something  must  be  done  about  that  house:  it  would  be  rifled  ina  week,  inthat  neigh-  borhood.  Somebody  responsible  must  be  found  to  go  there  and  see  that  it  was  properly  locked  up-and  tidy  up,  too,  yes,  the  police  would  have  turned  everything  upside  down;  if  they  arrest,  they  also  search  the  scene  of  arrest.  &quot;Shall  I  come  with  you?&quot;  No,  she  had  already  phoned.  Carrie  was  waiting  at  her  law  of-  fice.  Teresa  paused  a  moment,  ready  to  go,  rehearsing  what  she  had  to  say  to  the  law-  yer;  she  blew  him  a  kiss.  There  were  no  more  tears,  no  more  trem-  blings.  She  came  to  the  Institute  straight  from  the  lawyer's  office,  re-  ported  to  him  on  the  advice  she  had  been  given,  put  on  her  white  coat  and  did  her  work.  She  found  it  hard  to  concentrate  those  first  few  days  and  had  a  dazed  look  about  her,  from  the  effort,  when  they  met  for  lunch.  In  the  canteen,  they  would  seek  a  place  to  sit  apart  from  others,  like  clandestine  lovers.  But  it  was  not  sweet  intimacies  their  lowered  voices  exchanged.  They  were  discuss-  ing  what  to  do,  what  should  be  done,  what  could  be  done-and  every  now  and  then  one  or  the  other  would  look  up  to  return  the  wave  or  greeting  of  a  colleague,  look  up  into  the  humid,  cheerful  room  with  the  day's  specials  chalked  on  a  board,  people  gathered  round  the  coffee  and  tea  and  Coke  dis-  pensers,  look  out  through  the  expanse  of  glass  that  the  sea  breathed  on,  to  the  red  collage  of  flamboyants  and  jazzy  poinsettias  in  the  Institute's  park-and  her  mother,  brother,  and  sister  were  in  cells  somewhere.  All  the  time.  While  she  and  Nils  ate,  while  they  worked,  while  they  took  Niki  for  her  walk.  For  that  progression  of  repetitions  known  as  daily  life  went  on,  with  only  a  realization  of  its  strange,  dogged  per-  sistence;  what  will  stop  it  covering  up  what  is  really  happening?  In  the  cells,  and  here?  While  he  took  care  of  that  daily  life  (she  had  too  much  on  her  mind  to  be  expected  to  shop  and  take  clothes  to  the  dry  cleaner's)  she  spent  all  their  spare  time  seeing  lawyers,  collecting  and  fill-  ing  in  applications  to  magistrates,  to  chiefs  of  police,  to  government  offi-  cials,  and  consulting  organizations  concerned  with  the  condition  of  de-  tainees.  She  was  no  longer  dazed;  hair  out  of  the  way,  her  attention  never  deflected,  determination  hardened  her  gestures  and  emboldened  her  gentle-  ness,  sloughed  it  away.  She  importuned  anyone  she  could  use  -that  was  how  she  put  it:  &quot;Maybe  we  can  use  So-and-So.  He's  sup-  posed  to  be  a  good  liberal.  Let's  see  what  he'll  do.  Carrie  says  he's  an  old  Stellen-  bosch  buddy  of  the  Police  Commissioner.&quot;  To  ask  for  help  was  apparently  too  weak  a  demand-people  would  reply  that  they'd  help  if  they  could,  but  ...  &quot;We  must  pick  peo-  ple  over  whom  there's  public  leverage  of  some  sort.&quot;  He  marvelled  at  how  she  had  come  tothis  knowledge.  She  who  had  always  been  so  en-  dearingly  primly  prin-  cipled  even  went  to  see  a  Nationalist  politician  who  was  said  to  be  close  to  the  Minister  of  Justice;  she  who  had  always  been  so  sincere  revived  acquaintance  with  people  he  and  she  had  avoided  as  materi-  alistic,  incompatible,  pushy,  because  now  their  connections  might  be  of  use.  Her  entire  consciousness  was  a  strategy.  When  she  had  managed-  through  Carrie's  con-  sultation  with  lawyers  " b"in  [REDACTED]-to  get  a  parcel  of  blankets  and  clothing  to  her  mother,  brother,  and  sister,  she  turned  pressure  on  her  mother's  doctor,  telephoning  him  at  his  home  late  at  night  to  urge  that  the  prison  medical  officer  attend  her  mother.  When  that  succeeded,  she  contacted  the  local  lawyer  friend  of  a  friend  to  take  food  to  the  prison-dried  fruit,  yogurt  were  the  things  one  most  needed,  she  ascertained  from  those  who  had  been  political  prisoners-and  try  to  get  the  chief  warder  to  accept  it  for  her  mother,  Robbie,  and  Francie.  She  was  always  on  the  telephone;  he  brought  her  plate  from  their  interrupt,  ed  meals  to  the  stool  where  she  sat,  el-  bows  on  knees.  This  was  her  corner  now,  just  as  Niki  had  her  particular  place  under  the  table.  That  terrible  ivy,  daily  life:  how  to  pull  it  away  and  see  -what?  She  was  constantly  on  the  telephone  because  what  was  happening  in  the  cells  was  far  away  in  [REDACTED].  She  became  stern  with  impatience-  sympathy  irritated  her,  and  he  had  to  realize  that,  for  all  their  closeness,  their  apartness  together,  he  couldn't  really  claim  to  be  feeling  what  she  was  feeling.  Every  inquiry  or  instruction  from  her  had  to  be  referred  through  a  third  person.  Jimmy's  timidity  made  him  even  less  intelligent,  she  said,  than  he  had  ever  been.  He  wasn't  to  be  relied  on,  and  he  was  the  only  member  of  the  family  there.  Where  she  should  be.  Every  time  some  proxy  bungled,  it  came  up:  she  should  be  there.  And  then  it  was  Nils  who  became  distraught,  could  concentrate  on  nothing  but  the  cold  anxiety  that  she  would  go  there,  walk  into  the  waiting  car  of  the  Secu-  rity  Police-he  saw  them  ready  for  her,  counting  on  her  coming  to  that  house,  to  that  prison  where  her  mother,  brother,  and  sister  were  held.  Hadn't  he  said  to  her,  of  Jinmy's  fears,  that  it  was  a  fact  that  emyone  in  the  family  could  be...?  And  she  was  the  one  who  had  connections  with  Robbie  be-  yond  blood  ties!  &quot;Exactly!  They  might  turn  up  here  any  time  and  take  youand  me.  Both  of  us.  How  do  we  know  what's  come  out,  in  there  ...  what  he  might  have  told  my  mother  or  poor  frightened  Francie  -my  sister's  only  nineteen,  you  know.  Those  two  women'll  never  stand  up  under  interrogation  from  those  beasts;  they  couldn't  even  judge  what's  com-  promising  and  what  isn't.&quot;  His  height  and  strength  seemed  to hamper  him  when  opposing  the  will  that  tempered  her  slender  body.  He  spoke,  and  it  was  as  if  he  made  some  clumsy,  inappropriate  move  toward  her.  &quot;But  they  haven't  come.  I  mean,  thank  God  they  haven't.  Maybe  they  don't  know  about  you.&quot;  She  gave  a  disparaging  half-grunt,half-laugh.  \xc2\xab&quot;Maybe  no  one's  said  anything  about  us  ...  you.  But  if  you  go  there,  at  once  they'll  decide  they  might  as  well  see  what  you  know.  And  there  is  something  to  be  got  out  of  you.&quot;  She  gestured  away  the  times  her  brother  had  appeared  for  refuge,  the  packets  of  papers  that  had  been  hidden  under  research  documents  about  the  habits  of  fish  in  the  desk  of  the  Insti-  tute's  Swedish  expert.  &quot;Teresa,  I  won't  let  you  go!&quot;  He  had  never  before  spoken  to  her  in  that  voice-probably  it  was  the  ugly  voice  of  her  father;  he  felt  he  had  struck  her  a  blow,  but  it  was  on  his  own  breast-  " b"bone  that  his  fist  had  fallen.  He  was  shouting.  &quot;I  will  not  have  it!  Pll  go,  if  someone  must,  I'll  go,  I'm  not  one  of  the  family!&quot;  The  dissension  was  like  a  sheet  of  newspaper  that  catches  alight,  swells  and  writhes  with  flame,  and  quickly  dies  to  a  handful  of  black  membrane.  She  dropped  the  idea.  He  thirsted  with  relief;  she  watched  him  go  to  the  cup-  board  and  pour  himself  a  whiskey,  but  she  didn't  needanything  like  that.  Yet  every  few  days  something  would  precipitate  the  ordeal  all  over  again.  By  now  she  had  made  connections  who  knew  ways  of  smuggling  news  out  of  the  prison:  Robbie  was  on  a  hunger  strike,  her  motherand  Francie  had  been  moved  to  another  prison.  Why?  She  ought  to  be  there  to  find  out.  The  lawyer's  application  to  the  Minister  of  Justice  for  her  mother's  and  Francie's  release  was  awaiting  decision;  she  ought  to  be  there  to  see  if  it  couldn't  be  hastened.  Her  husband  brought  in  friends  to  back  him  up:  he,  they,  wouldn't  hear  of  her  going.  She  took  leave  of  absence  from  the  Institute.  He  didn't  know  whether  or  not  that  was  a  good  idea.  At  least  work  was  a  distraction-thinking  about  other  matters,  talking  to  people  who  had  other  concerns.  This  one  had  been  cleaned  out  in  a  burglary,  lost  every-  thing.  Thirgs?  He  saw  the  question  in  her  face,  flung  back.  That  one  had  a  dying  wife.  Death?  Of  course,  death's  natural;  he  reflected  that  if  her  sixty-  something-year-old  mother  had  be-  come  ill  and  died,  in  that  house,  it  would  have  been  an  event  to  accept.  So  the  practical  preoccupations  of  her  mother's  and  siblings'  detention  became  her  work  as  well.  Even  her  few  pleasures-no,  wrong  word,  her  few  small  satisfactions-were  part  of  the  disaster.  There  was  the  news  that  a  banner  calling  for  the  release  of  her  family  had  been  displayed  at  a  libera-  tion-movement  meeting  that  was  bro-  ken  up  by  police  and  dogs.  There  were  messages  from  the  movement-in-exile  for  which  Robbie  was  active:  they  pre-  ferred  this  lawyer  rather  than  that  to  be  engaged  on  his  behalf.  And  the  fact  that  they  knew  to  contact  her  drew  her  into  another  kind  of  cell,  of  new  associ-  ates  for  whom  detention  was  a  hazard  like  a  traffic  fine,  and  clandestinity,  with  all  its  cunning,  a  code  for  survival  in  or  out  of  prison. It  was  on  their  advice  that  she  started  sleeping  away  from  home.  Well,  it  was  a  disinterested  confirma-  made  love  for  weeks,  not  since  the  second  night  after  the  news  came.  He  sensed  she  was  ashamed  of  their  joy  tion  of  his  own  fears  for  her,  and-at  the  same  time-of  her  conviction  that  she  could  just  as  well  be  picked  up  here  as  in  the  region  of  her  mother's  house  or  place  of  imprisonment.  She  stayed  with  this  good  friend  or  that.  &quot;I  may  be  at  Addie's  tonight,  if  not  with  Ste-  phen  and  Joanna.&quot;  She  held  him  tightly  for  a  moment,  buried  Niki's  slim  snout  against  her,  before  she  slipped  out,  and  she  would  be  back  early  in  the  morning  for  breakfast.  But  he  lay  in  their  bed  full  of  deserted  desire  for  her,  although  they  had  not     happening  while  the  others-that  fam-  ily-were  in  prison  out  of  human  touch.  Once,  he  gave  in  to  the  tempta-  tion  to  hear  her  voice  and  phoned  her  where  she  said  she  would  sleep,  but  she  wasn't  there;  and  of  course  it  would  defeat  the  whole  purpose  of  her  ab-  sence  if  the  friend  who  answered  the  call  were  to  tell  him  where  she  had  moved  to-more  than  likely,  his  bed-  side  phone  was  tapped.  He  was  too  ashamed,  next  day,  to  confess  to  her  his  childish  impulse.  She  never  wore  her  heavy  black  hair  loose  now.  No  doubt  because  she  didn't  have  the  heart  to  spend  time  putting  it  up  in  rollers  and  brushing  it  out,  inno-  cently  enjoying  the  sight  of  herself  in  the  mirror,  as  she  used  to.  Yet  she  looked  differently  beautiful;  a  woman  becomes  another  woman  when  she  changes  the  way  she  wears  her  hair.  The  combs  scragged  it  away  from  her  cheekbones  and  eye  hollows.  She  " b"looked  like  a  dusky  Greta  Garbo.  When  the  front  door  banged  and  she  came  in  to  breakfast  in  the  mornings,  he  felt-and  it  was  like  a  fear-that  he  was  falling  in  love  with  her.  But  how  unpleasant  and  ridiculous.  He  had  loved  her  for  seven  years,  Teresa,  Te-  resa-there  was  no  need  to  abandon  that,  to  start  something  new.  And  then  there  came  to  him  the  mad  thought-mad!-that  it  was  not  he  who  was  falling  in  love  with  her,  someone  else  was.  There  was  the  mark  of  it  on  her,  in  the  different  beauty.  She  was  the  way  someone  else  saw  her.  That  was  what  he  confronted  himself  with  when  she  arrived  in  the  mornings.  There  was  a  day  when  the  hair  was  wet,  twisted  up,  and  the  combs  pushed  in  any  old  how.  &quot;The  sea  looked  so  cool,  I  couldn't  resist  a  dip  on  the  way.&quot;  &quot;I'm  glad,  min  lille  loppe.  Was  it  lovely?&quot;  At  the  time,  he  was  tenderly  pleased,  as  at  the  sign  of  an  invalid's  recovery  to  a  normal  interest  in  life.  But  walking  through  the  Institute's  aquarium,  while  the  fish  mouthed  at  him,  he  was  overcome  by  what  could  not  be  said:  who  was  it  who  swam  with  her,  and  she  must  have  been  naked,  or  only  in  her  panties,  because  surely  she  didn't  take  a  swimsuit  with  her  when  she  went  away  to  elude  the  Security  Police  at  night.  An  hour  or  two  later  he  hardly  believed  he  could  have  thought  so  cheaply  about  her,  Teresa,  Teresa.  There  was  a  little  beach  where  he  and  she  had  often  swum  nude,  sheltered  by  rocks;  it  was  their  beach  she  would  have  been  to,  alone,  without  him.  Because  he  had  these  moments  of  thinking  badly  of  her,  he  became  shy  of  her.  They  had  always  shared  the  dis-  comfort  of  one  another's  small  indispo-  sitions-her  period  pains,  his  bouts  of  indigestion  if  he  sat  too  longcrouched  over  a  microscope.  Now  he  suffered,  all  to  himself,  an  embarrassing  ailment-  a  crawling  sensation  round  the  anus.  It  seemed  to  him  it  must  be  one  of  the  signs  of  middle  age,  the  beginning  of  the  deterioration  of  the  nervous  system.  What  would  such  a  distasteful  detail  mean  to  her,  at  this  time!  Getting  older,  decaying,  was  natural.  And  she  was  young:  why  should  she  want  to  be  bothered  with  his  backside  while  her  mother  and  brother  and  sister  were  still  in  prison-it  was  nine  weeks  now.  And  she  had  a  young  lover.  Oh,  why  did  these  thoughts  come!  Why  should  she  not  have  found  a  lover,  young  like  herself,  brought  up  in  comradely  poverty,  someone  who  had  already  been  in  prison,  whose  m\xc3\xa9tier-outwitting  those  bastards  of  policemen,  warders,  government  offi-  cials-was  newly  her  own?  And  now  every  sign  could  be  inter-  " b"preted  that  way.  She  who  had  always  been  so  love-hungry,  passionate,  had  not  come  to  him  in  weeks,  and  had  created  an  atmosphere  round  herself  that  made  it  indelicate  for  him  to  come  to  her.  When  she  slept  out  and  arrived  home  early  in  the  morning,  she  could  have  slipped  into  their  bed,  where  he  still  lay;  she  didn't.  The  night  he  had  phoned  Stella's  flat-she  wasn't  there;  and  how  had  Stella  sounded?  Hadn't  the  voice  been  constrained?  Lying?  Covering  up?  Teresa,Teresa.  He  was  thinking  about  all  this  in  Swedish.  What  did  that  mean?  He  was  retreat-  ing,  going  back  to  what  he  was  be-  fore  they  had  made  their  life  apart  from  the  past,  together;  she  was  thrust-  ing  him  back  there,  leaving  him,  she  had  a  lover.  He  began  to  try  to  find  out  who  it  was.  When  she  talked  about  fellow-members  of  the  Detainees'  Support  Committee  he  listened  for  the  recurrence  of  certain  names.  And  there  was  new  dismay  for  him-it  might  even  be  that  she  was  having  an  affair  with  someone  else's  husband.  Teresa!  At  the  occasional  parties  they  had  gone  to,  over  seven  years,  she  had  not  even  danced  with  any  other  man,  because  he  himself  did  not  dance;     she  would  hold  his  hand  and  watch.  And  then  one  night-no,  it  was  morning  already  behind  the  curtains-  the  dog  jumped  off  the  bed  and  whined,  and  he  heard  the  front-door  latch  click.  He  waited,  but  Teresa  did  not  come  into  the  bedroom.  He  must  have  fallen  asleep  again,  waiting,  and  when  he  woke  he  felt  the  silence  of  an  empty  house.  In  the  kitchen  was  a  note:  &quot;I'll  be  gone  for  a  few  days.  Don't  worry.  Lilla  loppa.&quot;  It  was  the  kind  of  note  left  these  days  by  people  like  Robbie,  people  like  the  ones  she  mixed  with.  If  they  had  to  disappear,  if  they  didn't  want  anyone  who  might  be  questioned  about  their  whereabouts  to  get  into  trouble  with  the  police.  The  less  you  know,  the  better  for  you.  But  he  knew.  He  was  sure  now.  Perhaps  it  was  even  her  way  of  letting  him  know.  If  the  police  came,  he  could  tell  them:  she  has  gone  away  with  a  lover.  He  could  not  imagine  her  without  himself,  just  as  she,  when  it  all  began,  could  not  imagine  her  mother  able  to  eat  or  sleep  in  prison.  Teresa  across  the  table  from  someone  who  would  put  dead  flesh  on  her  plate  (theirs  was  a  vegetarian  home)  and  she  would  eat  it.  Teresa  in  one  of  the  cotton  night-  gowns-if  she  could  take  a  swimsuit  in  her  handbag  for  a  secret  early-morning  rendezvous,  she  would  not  hesitate  to  take  the  nightgown.  Unlike  Teresa,  he  drank  whiskey  and  swallowed  sleeping  pills  sothat  he  might  not  think  any  further.  But  he  dreamt  horribly,  from  the  mixture.  In  the  dream  they  had  a  child  who  was  playing  at  the  water's  edge  on  their  beach,  where  he  was  making  love  to  Teresa,  and  he  fiercely  pursued  his  climax  while  he  knew  a  high  surf  was  washing  the  child  out  to  sea.  He  woke  like  a  schoolboy,  wet  with  the  dream.  Standing  at  his  tanks  in  the  Institute,  he  followed  the  movements-currents  and  streamers:  rose,  violet,  yellow,  and  blue-of  the  tropical  fish  from  these  southern  waters  that  would  have  devoured  the  child's  drowned  body,  and  he  thought  of  the  scrubbed  satiny  floors,  the  white  muslin  curtains,  and  the  white-trunked  birch  trees  of  the  house  with  the  silent  rooms  he  had  inherited  outside  [REDACTED].  He  had  not  thought  he  would  ever  have  to  live  there  again.   AFTER  three  days,  she  telephoned  the  Institute  just  before  noon.  &quot;Where  are  you?&quot;  &quot;Here.  Niki's  head's  in  my  lap!&quot;  She  was  laughing.  He  left  at  once,  and  again  as  he  put  his  key  in  the  door  it  was  opened  from  the  inside.  She  held  out  her  hands,  palm  up;  he  had  to  take  them,  and  did  so  slowly.  They  went  into  the  kitchen,  where  he  saw  she  had  been  eating  bread  and  avocado,  hungrily  spreading  crumbs,  in  her  way.  The  bitch  was  sniffing  her  over  to  sense  where  she  had  been  and  what  she  had  done.  He,  too,  wanted  and  feared  to  get  the  scentof  her  betrayal.  Dread  poured  into  him  with  every  decibel  of  her  voice.  She  sat  back  in  akitchen  chair  and  faced  him.  &quot;I've  seen  her.  And  I've  got  notes  from  Francie  and  Robbie,  smug-  gled  out.  She's  all  right.  I  knew  you'd  stop  me  if  I  told  you  I  was  going.&quot;  She  lifted  her  ghoulders,  shook  her  head,  smiling,  closing  the  subject.  Perhaps  there  was  no  lover?  He  saw  it  was  true  that  she  had  left  him,  but  it  was  for  them-for  that  house,  the  dark  family  of  which  he  was  not  a  member,  her  country,  to  which  he  did  not  be-  long.  "