 b"WE-that  is,  I  and  Ed  (this  is  my  boyfriend,  no  relation  to  the  Mayor)-are  not  endors-  ing  anyone  at  this  time.  However,  we  feel  that  no  harm  will  be  done  to  any  of  the  announced  Presidential  candidates  if  we  engage  in  some  &quot;wishful  think-  ing&quot;&quot;  about  a  well-qualified  man  who  is  too  little  known  outside  our  home  state  of  New  York.  If  this  be  unrealistic,  perverse,  useless,  irrelevant,  and  counterproductive,  so  be  it,  though  Ed  is  a  bit  more  realistic  than  I  am.  MY  SCENARIO  Late  Apri:  Someone  gives  Ma-  tilda  Cuomo  a  copy  of  &quot;Women  Who  Love  Too  Much,&quot;  and  she  rebels  against  her  subservient,  nurturing  role  and  moves  out  to  [REDACTED]  to  study  poetry  writing  with  Allen  Ginsberg  at  the  Naropa  Institute  for  eight  years-  the  average  term  that  an  intense  lust  like  mine  for  Mario  takes  to  play  itself  out.  (Note:  My  subsequent  projections  do  not  necessarily  hinge  on  such  a  dramatic  turn  of  events;  this  is  simply  a  &quot;best  case&quot;  scenario.  The  same  re-  sult  could  be  obtained  by  amnesia,  a  tour  of  the  [REDACTED]  gone  awry,  a  mistaken-identity  or  twins  plot,  etc.)  Earty  May:  Out  from  under  her  shadow,  Mario  looks  more  desirable  than  ever.  Insists  he  isn't  &quot;available,&quot;  but  men  sey  all  kinds  ofthings.  May  14:  &quot;Super  Saturpay&quot;:  I  pre-  tend  to  have  a  dentist's  appointment  in  [REDACTED],  and  one  thing  leads  to  another.  May  15:  Mario  panics,  says  I  mis-  understood  his  body  language,  and  sends  me  packing.  But  there  are  fre-  quent  hangups  on  the  answering  ma-  chine-I  can  tell  it's  him.  Jun  6:  Al  Gore  has  stopped  bother-  ing  me.  A  good  sign-he  probably  knows  something  I  don't.  Jung  7:  Mario  goes  on  &quot;Nightline&quot;  and  gives  an  impassioned  speech  assert-  ing  his  loyalty  to  his  long-standing  relationship  with  Matilda  no  matter  what  she  does.  But  Ted  Koppel  is  on  the  ball;  in  masterly,  tough  questioning  he  manages  to  suggest  that  Mario's  &quot;denial  syndrome&quot;&quot;  masks  a  deep-seated  fearof  change.  Mario  is  furious,  show-  ing  Koppel  got  to  him.  Env  or  JunE:  Seeing  a  lot  of  Mario.  Nothing  has  &quot;happened&quot;  yet,  techni-  cally,  but  I'm  overwhelmed  by  the  feeling  that  this  thing  is  bigger  than  both  of  us.  Jury  1:  Mario  being  a  real  tease,  sensing  his  powernow.  Has  taken  to  wearing  a  big,  wide-brimmed  hat  and  using  it  to  hide  his  face,  like  Bob  Dylan  in  &quot;The  Last  Waltz.&quot;  Yet  I  suspect  he  wants  me  to  seize  control,  so  he  won't  have  to  feel  responsible  or  guilty.  As  if  part  of  him  feels,  &quot;It's  not  bigger  than  both  of  us-it's  just  bigger  than  me.&quot;  Jury  17:  Mario  not  thrilled  about  tagging  along  with  Dukakis,  Jackson,  Gore,  and  their  wives  on  trip  to  Atlan-  ta.  Hoping  to  get  him  to  myself  here  for  a  whole  week,  I  make  the  mistake  of  trying  to  pin  him  down  to  a  definite  decision.  In  a  desperate  attempt  to  elude  my  clutches,  he  runs  away  to  [REDACTED]  to  hang  out  with  his  cronies.  They  need  him  more  than  I  do,  Ma-  tilda  flies  down  for  a  reconciliation  (I  was  just  a  pawn  in  their  sick  psycho-  drama),  and  the  rest  is  history.  EDS  SCENARIO  Late  Apri:  Not  long  after  the  New  York  primary,  Dukakis,  Jackson,  and  Gore  leave  the  state.  This  gets  them  off  Governor  Cuomo's  back.  He  now  hastime  to  catch  up  on  the  newspapers,  and  finds  that  he  ruled  out  a  draft-a  subtle  misrepresentation  of  his  signal.  He  clarifies  his  position  as  being  more  complex,  less  simplistic.  Although  I,  Ed,  am  far  from  being  a  professional  politico,  the  Governor  seems  to  be  thinking  along  the  same  linesI  am-brooding  yet  dynamically  watchful,  playing  a  brilliantly  disci-  plined  cat-and-mouse  game.  May:  I  make  my  move-put  out  feelers  for  a  Draft  Cuomo  effort  at  our  weekly  tenants'  meeting  of  West  Side  Glenliving  Towers  Independent  Democrats.  The  response  is  impressive  (ninety-eight  per  cent  of  those  whose  second  choice  is  Dukakis  favor  a  Cuomo  draft  if  the  combined  popular  vote  for  Dukakis,  Jackson,  and  Gore  after  the  [REDACTED]  primary  is  not  pro-  portionate  to  their  delegate  count  in  the  citrus  states),  so  I  take  on  more  leadership-hardball  negotiations  with  Elevator  Bulletin  Board  Committee,     63  advance  trips  to  Coast,  etc.  Somebody's  going  to  have  to  broker  this  thing.  May  14:  &quot;Super  Saturpay&quot;:  Huge  success  with  the  guest  speaker  I  get  for  our  North  Dakota  Strategy  Tea-  Madam  Oracula,  a  psychic,  who  pre-  dicts  that  Cuomo  will  receive  the  nomination  when  &quot;great  Birnam  Wood  to  high  Dunsinane  hill  shall  come.&quot;  May  15:  &quot;Forest  Hills  Diary,&quot;by  Mario  Cuomo,  becomes  the  focus  of  our  Study  Group.  May  16:  Still  no  word  from  Cuomo  about  our  grass-roots  support.  But  a  lot  of  hangups  on  the  answering  machine,  which  constitute  indirect  authoriza-  tion.  Extremely  smart  move.  Jun\xc2\xae  6:  Dave  Garth  quits  the  Gore  campaign  to  make  anti-smoking  com-  mercials-so  he  says.  Shrewd  guy.  Jum  7:  Cuomo  devastating  on  &quot;Nightline.&quot;  Comes  off  as  conscien-  tious  yet  electable,  family  man  yet  poli-  tical  animal,  exuding  hidden  depths  of  wise  omniscience  in  not  showing  his  hand.  Koppel  hasn't  a  clue.  Jun\xc2\xae  8:  Duke  and  Jesse  claim  confi-  dence  after  their  respective  showings  in  [REDACTED],  but  they  don't  understand  the  forces  of  destiny  at  work.  Junr  9:  Aide  to  Dukakis  releases  a  weird  report  that  an  owl  attacked  a  hawk  at  midnight  near  the  White  House.  Duke,  a  very  superstitious  man,  freaks  out,  charges  omen  is  a  Jesse  hoax.  Both  camps  in  disarray,  giving  Mario  an  excuse  to  delay  endorsement.  Jury  10:  Madam  Oracula,  filling  in  for  Robert  Novak  on  &quot;The  McLaugh-  lin  Group,&quot;  repeats  the  Birnam  Wood  prediction  she  made  for  the  first  time  at  West  Side  Glenliving  Towers  Inde-  pendent  Democrats.  This  makes  us  look  very  good  with  Mario's  people,  and  we  arein  superb  shape  going  into  Convention  week.  Jury  17:I  have  the  greatest  girl-  friend  in  the  world!  Somehow  through  her  twin  sister,  who  works  for  Ted  Turner  in  [REDACTED],  she  wangles  me  Superdelegate-at-Large  credentials  to  the  Convention.  So  I'm  rightthere  to  play  a  major  role  in  the  healthy,  demo-  cratic  brokering  process,  the  good  old-  fashioned  horse-trading,  caucuses  and  smokers,  shakedowns,  paternity  suits,  heavy  drinking,  threats  and  deals.  When  it's  all  over,  I  wake  up  from  a  blackout  in  a  motel  with  two  itchy  tree  branches  tied  to  my  head  for  some  reason.  I  can't  recall  exactly  how  it  happened,  but  the  best  man  won.  "