WHEN  Big  Tim  Bowers  just  happened  to  turn  to  his  left  and  see  the  little  guy  with  the  battered  guitar  case  emerge  limping  from  Gate  4A  at  the  [REDACTED]  Interna-  tional  [REDACTED]  on  July  12,  1985,  he  held  out  his  big  arms  to  greet  his  best  friend,  which,  although  they  had  never  met  in  person,  Sweet  Brian  surely  was.  It  was  Sweet  Brian  himself!  There!  In  Concourse  C!  His  &quot;White  Boy&quot;  album  was  what  got  Tim  through  the  divorce  from  Deloyne  after  three  loving  months  of  marriage,  when  she  notified  him  that  he  was  hopeless  and  the  next  day  upped  and  split  for  Cheyenne  with  a  bald  bread-truck  driver  (unbeliev-  able),  after  which  Tim  lost  his  good  job  and  apartment  and  would've  lost  his  mind  except  for  Sweet  Brian,  so  of  course  he  yelled,  &quot;Hey,  you're  my  man!  I  got  to  shake  your  hand!  Hiiiiya!  Sweet  Brian!  Hey!&quot;  Sweet  Brian  made  a  sharp  right,  climbed  overa  railing  and  a  row  of  plastic  chairs,  and  walked  fast  toward  Baggage  Claim,  which  didn't  surprise  Tim  one  bit.  After  all,  the  guy  who  wrote  &quot;Tie  Me  Loose&quot;  and  &quot;That  Old  Highway  Suits  Me  Pretty  Well,  I  Guess&quot;  and  &quot;Lovers  Make  Good  Loners&quot;  is  no  Sammy  Davis,  Jr.,  and  Tim  respected  him  for  the  uncompro-  mising  integrity  and  privacy  and  sin-  cerity  of  his  art,  which  had  been  crucial  to  Tim  when  his  own  sense  of  self  was  chewed  up  by  Deloyne,  all  of  which  Tim  now  needed  to  say  to  Sweet  Brian.  He  galloped  down  the  concourse  after  the  fleeing  singer-songwriter,  who  heard  his  two-hundred-and-sixty-two-  pound  fan  and  panicked  and  went  through  a  door  marked  &quot;No  TANCE&quot;  and  clattered  down  two  flights  of  steel  stairs,  Tim's  big  boots  whang-  ing  and  whomping  on  the  stairs  above,  convincing  him  that  death  was  very  near,  and  burst  through  a  pair  of  swinging  doors  marked  &quot;Wrar  Ear-  PLUGS&quot;  and  headed  across  the  tarmac,  a  man  once  nominated  for  a  Grammy  (for  &quot;Existential  Cowboy&quot;)  and  once  described  as  the  Dylan  of  the  late  sev-  enties,  panting  and  limping  around  some  construction  barriers  along  the  terminal  wall  toward  a  red  door  twenty  yards  away.  Incredible,  Tim  was  thinking.  I  come  to  the  airport  to  hang  around  and  maybe  get  an  idea  for  a  song-not  to  meet  anybody  or  anything,  just  to  think  about  something  to  write  about,  maybe  about  not  having  anybody  to  meet-and  I  meet  Aim.  Fantastic.  Tim  was  six  strides  behind  him  when  he  burst  through  the  red  door.  There  was  a  second,  locked  door  a  few  steps  beyond,  and  then  and  there,  in  the  tiny  vestibule,  Tim  expressed  a  lifetime  of  appreciation.  He  hugged  Sweet  Brian  from  behind  and  said,  &quot;Hey,  little  buddy,  I'm  your  biggest  fan.  You  saved  my  life,  man.&quot;  The  star  pushed  Big  Tim  away  and  sneered,  &quot;You  know,  it's  vampires  like  you  who  make  me  regret  ever  becoming  a  performer.  You  and  your  twenty-  nine-cent  fantasies.  I  don't  know  what  you-  You  sicken  me.&quot;  And  he  slapped  Tim.  At  this  point  Tim  wasn't  thinking  lawsuit  at  all.  An  apology  would  have  been  enough-e.g.,  &quot;Sorry,  pal.  I'm  under  too  darn  much  pressure  right  now.  Please  understand.&quot;  He'd  have  said,  &quot;Fine,  Sweet  Brian.  No  problem.  Just  want  you  to  know  I  love  your  music.  That's  all.  Take  care  of  your-  self.  Goodbye  and  God  bless  you.&quot;  Instead,  Sweet  Brian  said  those  terrible  things  and  then  slepped  him  and  shoved  him  aside  and  went  to  the  hotel  and  wrote  an  abusive  song  about  him  («'Your  Biggest  Fan&quot;)  and  sang  it  that  night  at  the  Stockyards,  and  that's  how  they  wound  up  in  [REDACTED]  District  Court  two  years  later.  TIM  had  lost  quite  a  bit  of  weight  in  those  two  years,  ever  since  he  got  a  great  job  at  New  Tech,  thanks  to  the  company's  excellent  weight-losspro-  gram,  which,  in  fact,  Tim  himself  initiated  (he's  executive  vice-president  in  charge  of  the  entire  [REDACTED]  and  Lincoln  operations,  about  eight  thou-  sand  employees  and  growing  daily  since  NewTech  bought  up  SmetSys,  ReinTal,  and  Northern  Gas  &amp;  Hot  Water),  and  he  looked  blessedly  happy  at  the  courthouse,  which  might  have  had  something  to  do  with  his  new  wife,  Stephanie,  a  blond  six-foot  former  Vogue  model  who  accompanied  him,  leaning  lovingly  on  him  and  smiling  fabulously  as  photographers  jockeyed  for  position.  A  handsome  couple.  Ru-  mor  said  she  wastwo  months  pregnant.  They  looked  ecstatic.  Young  and  rich  and  very  much  in  love.  Inside,  Tim's  lawyer  described  Sweet  Brian  as  a  &quot;candy-ass  has-been  THE  NEW  YORKER  who  can't  hit  the  notes  and  can't  write  the  hits,  so  he  hits  his  fans&quot;  and  asked  for  a  half  million  dollars  in  damages.  The  little  guy  sat  twenty  feet  away  from  Tim,  his  an-  kles  chained  together.  He  looked  bloated,  sick.  His  cheap  green  sports  coat  wouldn't  button  in  front.  It  had  stains  down  the  lapels.  The  story  of  his  downfall  was  in  all  the  papers.  Sweet  Brian  and  Tania  [REDACTED]  hadhad  to  interrupt  their  Hawaiian  honey,  moon  to  fly  to  [REDACTED]  for  the  trial  and  in  Con-  course  C  Brian  was  nabbed  by  the  [REDACTED]  cops  for  possession  of  narcotics  with  a  street  value  of  three  hundred  and  twenty-seven  dol-  lars.  Tania  was  furious.  She  slapped  him  around  in  the  police  station  and  left  town.  It  snowed  three  feet  and  his  lawyer  was  stuck  in  [REDACTED],  and  Sweet  Brian  sat  in  the  clink  for  six  days.  That  was  when  Tim  saw  him  in  court  looking  morose.  &quot;Can  I  help?&quot;  he  asked,  but  the  sullen  singer  turned  away  in  anger.  That  night,  a  rodeo  rider  from  Saskatchewan  who  was  do-  ing  thirty  days  for  bestiality  beat  the  daylights  out  of  Brian  and  knocked  out  four  front  teeth.  Next  morning,  the  county  dentist,  Dr.  Merce  L.  Gibbons,  had  to  drill  out  the  stumps  without  Novocain.  Brian  bled  so  much  he  fainted  and  toppled  forward,  and  the  drill  went  through  his  cheek.  The  dentist  panicked,  thinking  malpractice  suit,  and  he  tore  his  white  smock  slightly  and  roughed  up  his  thin  hair  so  asto  claim  that  Brian  had  attacked  him,  and  then  he  clubbed  the  former  star  hard,  twice,  with  a  mallet  and  yelled  for  the  cops.  They  took  Brian  to  the  hospital  and  he  got  an  infection  from  the  blood  test  and  died.  Nobody  came  from  [REDACTED]  for  the  body,  and  finally  some  reporters  collected  three  hundred  and  ten  dollars  around  the  newsroom  and  Brian  was  buried  in  [REDACTED]  under  a  little  headstone:  &quot;Brina  Johnson,  1492-1987.&quot;  The  two  typos  weren't  noticed  until  it  was   too  late.  So  what  could  they  do?  A  local  columnist  taped  a  note  to  the  stone  saying,  &quot;His  name  is  Brian.  Listen  to  his  albums  sometime.  Not  'White  Boy,&quot;  which  is  too  pretty,  too  nostal-  gic,  too  self-conscious,  but  'Coming  Down  from  [REDACTED]'  is  not  bad.  I  think  it's  on  the  Argonaut  label.&quot;  Tim  was  in  Palm  Beach  when  some-  one  told  him  Brian  was  dead,  and  although  he  was  extremely  busy  in  meetings  all  day,  he  wondered,  &quot;Could  this  have  been  avoided  if  I  had  ap-  proached  him  differently,  maybe  been  more  low-key?&quot;  &quot;He  was  a  big  hero  to  me  back  then,&quot;  he  told  Stephanie  as  they  strolled  along  the  beach  toward  The  Palmery,  where  they  were  meeting  some  [REDACTED]  associates  for  drinks  and  dinner.  &quot;I  really  wish  we  could  have  been  friends.&quot;  EVEN  today,  after  he  settled  out  of  court  with  the  singer's  estate  for  a  rumored  $196,000,  Tim  feels  bad  about  the  incident.  He  is  not  alone.  Tens  of  thousands  of  people  have  ap-  proached  very  famous  men  and  women  intending  to  brighten  thelonely  lives  of  the  great  with  a  few  simple  words  of  admiration  only  to  be  rejected  and  abused  for  their  thoughtfulness.  To  the  stars,  of  course,  such  encounters  are  mere  momentary  irritations  in  their  fast-paced  sensational  lives  and  are  quickly  forgotten,  but  for  the  sensitive  fans  personal  rejection  by  an  idol  be-  comes  a  permanent  scar.  It  could  easily  be  avoided  if,  when  approaching  the  celebrated,  those  who  practically  wor-  ship  them  would  just  use  a  little  com-  mon  sense:  1.  Never  grab  or  paw  the  famous.  They  will  instantly  recoil  and  you  will  never  ever  win  their  respect.  Stand  at  least  thirty-two  inches  away.  If  your  words  of  admiration  move  him  or  her  to  pat  your  shoulder,  then  of  course  you  can  pat  back,  but  don't  initiate  contact  and  don't  hang  on.  Be  cool.  2.  Don't  gush,  don't  babble,  don't  grovel  or  fawn.  Never  snivel.  Be  tall.  Bootlicking  builds  a  wall  you'll  never  break  through.  A  simple  pleasantry  is  enough-e.g.,  &quot;Like  your  work!&quot;  If  you  need  to  say  more  than  that  (]  think  you're  the  most  wonderful  lyric  poet  in  [REDACTED]  today),  try  to  modify  your  praise  slightly  (but  your  critical  essays  stink).  Or  cough  hard,  about  five  times.  That  relieves  the  famous  person  of  having  to  fawn  back.  The  most  wearisome  aspect  of  fame  is  the  obliga-  tion  to  look  stunned  by  each  compli-  ment  as  if  it  were  the  first  ever  heard.  That's  why  an  odd  remark  (Your  lest  book  gave  me  the  sensation  of  being  a  horned  toad  lying  on  a  hot  highway)  may  secretly  please  the  famous  person  far  more  than  a  cliché  (I  adore  you  and  my  family  adores  you  and  everyone  I  know  in  the  entire  world  thinks  you  are  agenius  and  a  saint  and  I  think  I'm  going  to  fall  down  on  the  sidewalk  and  just  writhe  around  and  foam  for  a  while).  Be  cool.  Famous  people  much  prefer  a  chummy  insultto  lavish  non-  sense:  a  little  dig  about  the  exorbitant  price  of  tickets  to  the  star's  show,  per-  haps,  or  the  cheesiness  of  the  posters  (You  design  those  yourself?).  Or  a  remark  about  the  celebrity's  pet  (if  any),  like  &quot;How  much  did  you  pay  for  that  dog?&quot;  Personal  stuff  (Do  you  have  to  shave  twicea  day?  Do  you  use  regular  soap  or  what?  What  was  it  like  when  you  found  that  out  about  her  going  out  with  him?)  can  wait  for  later.  For  now,  limit  yourself  to  the  dog.  As  it  gazes  up  in  mealymouthed  brown-nosed,  lick-  spittle  devotion,  glance  down  and  say,  &quot;Be  cool.&quot;  3.  Autographs  are  fine,  photos  are  fine,  but  be  cool.  Don't  truckle  (OZ,  please  please  please-I'll  do  anything  -anything  at  all),  don't  pander  (This  is  the  high  point  of  my  life),  and  never  cringe  or  kowtow  (J  know  that  this  is  just  about  the  tackiest  thing  a  person  can  do  and  it  makes  me  sick  with  shame  but  ...),  and  never,  never  lie  (My  mother,  who  is  eighty-seven,  is  dying  in  [REDACTED]  and  it  would  mean  the  world  to  her  if  ...).  Hand  the  famous  person  the  paper  and  simply  say,  &quot;I  need  you  to  sign  this.&quot;  Hand  the  cam-  era  to  one  of  his  hangers-on  and  say,  &quot;'T  ake  a  picture  of  us.&quot;  4.  When  you  are  cool  like  this  and  don't  fawn  and  don't  grab  and  just  go  about  your  business  as  afan  and  get  that  autograph  and  the  photo  and  are  businesslike  about  it,  probably  you  are  going  to  make  such  a  big  impression  on  the  famous  person  that  he  or  she  will  make  a  grab  for  you  in  that  offhand  way  these  people  have  (Gare  to  join  Sammy  and  me  for  dinner,  Roy?  or  Somebody  find  this  guy  a  backstage  pass,  wouldja?).  Remember,  these  peo-  ple  are  surrounded  by  glittering  insin-  cerity  and  false  friendship  and  utter  degradation  of  all  personal  values  to  such  a  degree  that  three  cool  words  from  you  (Like  your  work!)  will  knock  them  for  a  loop.  Suddenly  the  star  recalls  the  easy  camaraderie  of  a  South-  ern  small-town  childhood  and  the  old  verities  of  love  and  loyalty  in  the  circle  of  family,  church,  and  community.  Desperately  he  reaches  out  for  contact  with  you  (Please.  You  remind  me  of  a  Jriend  I  once  had.  Many  years  ago  and  far  away  from  here.  Please),  wants  your  phone  number,  tries  to  schedule  lunch  with  you  on  Thursday  (4Azy-  where,  anytime.  Early  lunch,  late  lunch.  You  name  it.  I  can  send  a  car  to  pick  you  up.  Thursday  or  Friday  or  Saturday  or  any  day  next  week.  Or  Sunday  if  you'd  rather.  Or  it  doesn't  have  to  be  lunch.  It  could  be  breakfast  or  dinner.  Or  a  late  supper.  Brunch),  tries  to  draw  you  into  conversation  (You  got  a  book  you  want  published?  Songs?  Anyone  in  your  family  inter-  ested  in  performing?  Got  a  favorite  charity  you  need  anyone  to  do  a  benefit  for?!  Need  a  credit  or  job  reference?).  Don't  bite.  Just  smile  and  nod  and  say,  &quot;Nice  to  meet  you,&quot;  and  walk  away.  He'll  follow  you  (What's  your  name!?  Please.  I  need  you).  Walk  faster.  You  don't  want  to  get  involved  with  these  people.  Thirty  seconds  can  be  interest-  ing,  but  beyond  two  minutes  you  start  to  get  entangled.  They're  going  to  want  you  to  come  to  the  Coast  with  them  thet  night  and  involve  you  in  such  weird  sadness  as  you  can't  believe.  (Please  come  with  us.  I  mean  it.  There's  something  real  about  you  that's  been  missing  from  my  life  for  too  long.  Please.  Just  come  and  talk  to  me  for  three  minutes.)  Sorry.  (Please.)  No.  (Then  let  me  come  with  you.)  No.  (Tell  me  why  not.)  I'm  sorry.  I  wish  that  it  was  possible,  but  it  isn't,  not  at  this  time.  I  hope  we  can  meet  again  very  soon.  Bye.