 b"ONE  Saturday  in  that  last,  inter-  O  minable  summer  before  his  parents  separated  and  the  [REDACTED]  Senators  baseball  team  was  expunged  forever  from  the  face  of  the  earth,  the  Shapiros  went  to  Nags  Head,  [REDACTED],  where  Nathan,  without  planning  to,  perpetrated  a  great  hoax.  They  drove  down  I-95,  through  the  Commonwealth  of  Vir-  ginia,  to  a  place  called  the  Sandpiper  -a  ragged,  charming  oval  of  motel  cottages  painted  white  and  green  as  the  Atlantic,  and  managed  by  a  kind,  astonishingly  fat  old  man  named  Col-  onel  Larue,  who  smoked  cherry  cigars  and  would,  if  asked,  play  catch  or  keep-away.  Outside  his  office,  in  the  weedy  gravel,  stood  an  old  red-and-  radium-white  Coke  machine,  which  dispensed  bottles  from  a  vertical  glass  door  that  sighed  when  you  opened  it,  and  which  reminded  Nathan  of  the  Automat  his  grandmother  had  taken  him  to  once  in  New  York  City.  The  sight  of  the  faded  machine  and  of  the  whole  Sandpiper-like  that  of  the  Au-  tomat-filled  Nathan  with  a  happy  sadness,  or,  really,  a  sad  happiness;  he  was  not  too  young,  at  ten,  to  have  developed  a  sense  of  nostalgia,  of  an-  ticipating  that  there  were  things  he  would  ultimately  never  see  again.  There  were  children  in  every  cot-  tage-with  all  manner  of  floats,  pails,  paddles,  trucks,  and  flying  objects-  and  his  younger  brother  Ricky,  to  Na-  than's  envy,  immediately  fell  in  with  a  gang  of  piratical  little  boys  with  water  pistols,  who  were  always  reproducing  fart  sounds  and  giggling  chaotically  when  their  mothers  employed  certain  ordinary  words  such  as  &quot;hot  dog&quot;  and  &quot;rubber.&quot;  The  Shapiros  went  to  the  ocean  every  summer,  and  at  the  begin-  ning  of  this  trip,  as  on  all  those  that  had  preceded  it,  Nathan  and  his  brother  got  along  better  than  they  usu-  ally  did,  their  mother  broke  out  almost  immediately  in  a  feathery  red  heat  rash,  and  their  father  lay  pale  and  motionless  in  the  sun,  like  a  monu-  ment,  and  always  forgot  to  take  offhis  wristwatch  when  he  went  into  the  sea.  Nathan  had  brought  a  stack  of  James  Bond  books  and  his  colored  pencils;  there  were  board  games-he  and  his  father  were  in  the  middle  of  their  Strat-O-Matic  baseball  playoffs-and  miniature  boxes  of  cereal;  the  family  ate  out  every  single  night.  But  when  they  were  halfway  through  the  slow,  dazzling  week-which  was  as  far  as  they  were  to  get-Nathan  began  to  experience  an  unfamiliar  longing:  he  wanted  to  go  home.  He  awoke  very  early  on  Wednesday  morning,  went  into  the  cottage's  small  kitchen,  where  the  floor  was  always  sticky  and  the  table  rocked  and  trem-  bled,  and  chose  the  last  of  the  desirable  cereals  from  the  Variety  pack,  leaving  for  Ricky  only  those  papery,  sour  brands  with  the  scientific  names-the  sort  that  their  grandparents  liked.  As  he  began  to  eat,  Nathan  heard,  from  thebig  bedroom  down  the  hall,  the  unmistakable,  increasingly  familiar  sound  of  his  father  burying  his  mother  under  a  heap  of  scorn  and  ridicule.  It  was,  oddly,  a  soft  and  pleading  sound.  Lately,  the  conversation  and  actions  of  Dr.  Shapiro's  family  seemed  to  disap-  point  him  terribly.  His  left  hand  was  always  flying  up  to  smack  his  sad  and  outraged  forehead,  so  hard  that  Na-  than  often  thought  he  could  hear  his  father's  wedding  ring  crack  against  his  skull.  When  they'd  played  their  baseball  game  the  day  before-Na-  than's  Baltimore  Bonfires  against  his  father's  [REDACTED]  Eagles-every  deci-  sion  Nathan  made  led  to  a  disaster,  and  his  father  pointed  out  each  unwise  substitution  and  foolish  attempt  to  steal  in  this  new  tone  of  miserable  sarcasm,  sothat  Nathan  had  spent  the  afternoon  apologizing,  and,  finally,  crying.  Now  he  listened  for  his  mother's  voice,  for  the  note  of  chas-  tened  shame.  The  bedroom  door  slammed,  and  Mrs.  Shapiro  came  out  into  the  kitchen.  She  was  in  her  bathrobe,  a  wild,  sleepless  smile  on  her  face.  &quot;Good  morning,  honey,&quot;  she  said,  then  hummed  to  herself  as  she  boiled  water  and  made  a  cup  of  instant  coffee.  Her  spoon  tinkled  gaily  against  the  cup.  &quot;Where  are  you  going,  Mom?&quot;  said  Nathan.  She  had  taken  up  her  coffee  and  was  heading  for  the  sliding  glass door  that  led  out  of  the  kitchen  and  down  to  the  beach.  \xc2\xabSee  you,  honey,&quot;  she  sang.  &quot;Mom!&quot;  said  Nathan.  He  stood  up  -afraid,  absurdly,  that  she  might  be  leaving  for  good,  because  she  seemed  so  happy.  After  a  few  seconds  he  heard  her  whistling,  and  he  went  to  the  door  and  pressed  his  face  against  the  wire  screen.  His  mother  had  a  Disney  whis-  tle,  melodious  and  full,  like  a  Scots-  man's  as  he  walks  across  a  meadow  in  a  brilliant  kilt.  She  paced  briskly  along  the  ramshackle  slat-and-wire  fence,  back  and  forth  through  the  beach  grass,  drinking  from  the  huge  white  mug  of  coffee  and  whistling  heartily  into  the  breeze;  her  red  hair  rose  from  her  head  and  trailed  like  a  defiant  banner.  He  watched  her  observe  the  sunrise-it  was  going  to  bea  perfect,  breezy  day-then  continued  to  watch  as  she  set  her  coffee  on  the  ground,  removed  her  bathrobe,  and,  in  her  bathing  suit,  began  to  engage  in  a  long  series  of  yoga  exercises-a  new  fad  of  hers-as  though  she  were  playing  statues  all  alone.  Nathan  was  soon  lost,  with  the  fervor  of  a  young  scien-  tist,  in  contemplation  of  his  pretty,  whistling  mother  rolling  around  on  the  ground.  &quot;Oh,  how  can  she?&quot;  said  Dr.  Sha-  piro.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  said  Nathan,  gravely,  before  he  blushed  and  whirled  around  tofind  his  father,  in  pajamas,  staring  out  at  Mrs.  Shapiro.  His  smile  was  angry  and  clenched,  but  in  his  eyes  was  the  same  look  of  bleak  surprise,  of  be-  trayal,  that  had  been  there  when  Na-  than  took  out  Johnny  Sain,  a  slugging  pitcher,  and  the  pinch-hitter,  Enos  Slaughter,  immediately  went  down  on  strikes.  There  were  a  hundred  new  things  that  interested  Nathan's  mother  -bonsai,  the  Zuni,  yoga,  real  estate-  and  although  Dr.  Shapiro  had  always  been  a  liberal,  generous,  encouraging  man  (as  Nathan  had  heard  his  mother  say  to  a  friend),  andhad  at  first  hap-  pily  helped  her  to  purchase  the  neces-  sary  manuals,  supplies,  and  coffee-  table  books,  lately  each  new  fad  seemed  to  come  as  a  blow  to  him-a  going  astray,  a  false  step.  &quot;How  can  she?&quot;  he  said  again,  shaking  his  big  bearded  head.  &quot;She  says  it's  really  good  for  you,&quot;  said  Nathan.  His  father  smiled  down  on  his  son  ruefully,  and  tapped  him  once  on  the  head.  Then  he  turned  and  went  to  the  refrigerator,  hitching  up  his  pajama  bottoms.  They  were  the  ones  patterned  with  a  blue  stripe  and  red  chevrons-  " b"the  ones  that  Nathan  always  imagined  were  the  sort  worn  by  the  awkward,  doomed  elephant  in  the  Groucho  Marx  joke.  ETER  that  day,  as  they  made  egg-  salad  sandwiches  to  carry  down  to  the  beach,  Dr.  and  Mrs.  Shapiro  fought  bitterly,  for  the  fifth  time  since  their  arrival.  In  the  cottage's  kitchen  was  a  knife-a  small,  new,  foreign  knife,  which  Mrs.  Shapiro  admired.  As  she  used  it  to  slice  neat  little  horse-  shoes  of  celery,  she  praised  it  again.  \xc2\xab&quot;Such  a  good  little  knife,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Why  don't  you  just  take  it?&quot;said  Dr.  Shapiro.  The  air  in  the  kitchen  was  suddenly  full  of  sharp,  caramel  smoke,  and  Dr.  Shapiro  ran  to  unplug  the  toaster.  &quot;That  would  be  stealing,&quot;  said  Na-  than's  mother,  ignoring  her  husband's  motions  of  alarm  and  the  fact  that  their  lunch  was  on  fire.  &quot;We  are  not  taking  this  knife,  Martin.&quot;  &quot;Give  it  to  me.&quot;&quot;  Dr.  Shapiro  held  out  his  hand,  palm  up.  &quot;I'm  not  going  to  let  you-make  me-dishonest  anymore!&quot;  said  his  mother.  She  seemed  to  struggle,  at  first,  not  to  finish  the  sentence  she  had  begun,  but  in  the  end  she  turned,  put  her  face  right  up  to  his,  and  cried  out  boldly.  After  her  outburst,  both  adults  turned  to  look,  with  a  simultaneity  that  was  almost  funny,  at  their  sons.  Nathan  hadn't  the  faintest  notion  of  what  his  mother  was  talking  about.  &quot;Don't  steal,  Dad,&quot;  Ricky  said.  &quot;I  only  wanted  it  to  extract  the  piece  of  toast,&quot;  said  their  father.  He  was  looking  at  their  mother  again.  &quot;God  damn  it.&quot;  He  turned  and  went  out  of  the  kitchen.  Her  knuckles  white  around  the  han-  dle  of  the  knife,  their  mother  freed  the  toast  and  began  scraping  the  burnt  surfaces  into  the  sink.  Because  their  father  had  said  &quot;God  damn,&quot;  Ricky  wiggled  his  eyebrows  and  smiled  at  Nathan.  At  the  slamming  of  the  bed-  room  door,  Nathan  clambered  up  sud-  denly  from  the  rickety  kitchen  table  as  though  he  had  found  an  insect  crawl-  ing  on  his  leg.  &quot;Kill  it!&quot;  said  Ricky.  &quot;What  is  it?&quot;  &quot;What  is  it?&quot;  said  his  mother.  She  scanned  Nathan's  body  quickly,  one  hand  half  raised  to  swat.  &quot;'Nothing,&quot;  said  Nathan.  He  took  off  his  glasses.  &quot;I'm  going  for  a  walk.&quot;  When  he  got  to  the  edge  of  the  water,  he  turned  to  look  toward  the  Sandpiper.  At  that  time  in  NagsHead  there  were  few  hotels  and  no  condo-miniums,  and  it  seemed  to  Nathan  that  their  little  ring  of  cottages  stood  alone,  like  Stonehenge,  in  the  middle  of  a  giant  wasteland.  He  set  off  down  the  beach,  watching  his  feet  print  and  fol-  lowing  the  script  left  in  the  sand  by  the  birds  for  which  the  motel  was  named.  He  passed  a  sand  castle,  then  a  heart  drawn  with  a  stick  enclosing  the  names  Jimmy  and  Beth.  Sometimes  his  heels  sank  deeply  into  the  sand,  and  he  noticed  the  odd  marks  this  would  leave  -a  pair  of  wide  dimples.  He  discov-  ered  that  he  could  walk  entirely  on  his  heels,  and  his  trail  became  two  lines  of  big  periods.  If  he  took  short  steps,  it  looked  as  though  a  creature-a  bird  with  two  peg  legs-had  come  to  fish  along  the  shore.  He  lurched  a  long  way  in  this  fash-  ion,  watching  his  feet,  and  nearly  for-  got  his  parents'  quarrel.  But  when  at  last  he  grew  bored  with  walking  on  his  heels  and  turned  to  go  back,  he  saw  that  his  mother  and  father  had  also  decided  to  take  a  walk,  and  that  they  were,  in  fact,  coming  toward  him-  clasping  hands,  letting  go,  clasping  hands  again.  Nathan  ran  to  meet  them,  and  they  parted  to  let  him  walk  between  them.  They  all  continued  down  the  beach,  stooping  to  pick  up  shells,  glass,  dead  crabs,  twine,  and  all  the  colored  or  smelly  things  that  Na-  than  had  failed  to  take  note  of  before.  At  first  his  parents  exclaimed  with  him  over  these  discoveries,  and  his  father  took  each  striped  seashell  into  his  hands,  to  keep  it  safe,  until  there  were  two  dozen  and  they  jingled  there  like  money.  But  after  a  while  they  seemed  to  lose  interest,  and  Nathan  found  himself  walking  a  few  feet  ahead  of  them,  stooping  alone,  glumly  dusting  his  toes  with  sand  as  he  tried  to  eaves-  drop  on  their  careless  and  incompre-  hensible  conversation.  &quot;Never  again,&quot;  his  mother  said  at  last.  Dr.  Shapiro  let  the  shells  fall.  He  rubbed  his  hands  together  and  then  stared  at  them  as  though  waking  from  a  dream  in  which  he  had  been  holding  a  fortune  in  gold.  Straightening  up  so  quickly  that  his  head  spun,  Nathan  let  out  a  cry  and  pointed  down  at  the  sand  beneath  their  feet,  among  the  scattered  shells.  &quot;Look  at  those  weird  tracks!&quot;  he  cried.  They  all  looked  down.  Speculation  on  the  nature  of  the  beast  that  went  toeless  down  the  shore  wenton  for  several  minutes,  and  al-  though  Nathan  was  delighted  at  first,  hesoon  began  to  feel  embarrassed  and,  obscurely,  frightened  by  the  ease  with  which  he  had  deceived  his  parents.  His  treachery  was  almost  exposed  when  " b"Ricky,  carrying  a  long  stick  and  wear-  ing  a  riot  of  Magic  Marker  tattoos  on  his  face  and  all  down  his  arms,  ran  over  tofind  out  what  was  happening.  The  little  boy  immediately  tipped  back  onto  his  heels,  and  would  have  taken  a  few  steps  like  that  had  Nathan  not  grabbed  him  by  the  elbow  and  dragged  him  aside.  &quot;Why  do  you  have  a  dog  on  your  face?&quot;  said  Nathan.  &quot;It's  a  jaguar,&quot;  said  Ricky.  Nathan  bent  to  whisper  into  his  brother's  ear.  &quot;I'm  tricking  Mom  and  Dad,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Good,&quot;  said  Ricky.  &quot;They  think  there's  some  kind  of  weird  creature  on  the  beach.&quot;  Ricky  pushed  Nathan  away  and  then  surveyed  their  mother  and  father,  who  were  talking  again,  quietly,  as  though  they  were  trying  not  to  alarm  their  sons.  &quot;It  can't  be  real,&quot;  said  Nathan's  father.  Ricky's  skin  under  the  crude  tattoos  was  tanned,  his  hair  looked  stiff  and  ragged  from  going  unwashed  and  sea-  tangled,  and  as  he  regarded  their  par-  ents  he  held  his  skinny  stick  like  a  javelin  at  his  side.  &quot;They're  dumb,&quot;  he  said  flatly.  Dr.  Shapiro  approached,  stepping  gingerly  across  the  mysterious  tracks,  and  then  knelt  beside  his  sons.  His  face     was  red,  though  not  from  the  sun,  and  he  seemed  to  have  trouble  looking  di-  rectly  at  the  boys.  Nathan  began  to  cry  before  his  father  even  spoke.  &quot;Boys,&quot;  he  said.  He  looked  away,  then  back,  and  bit  his  lip.  &quot;I'm  afraid  -I'm  sorry.  We're  going  to  go  home.  Your  mom  and  I-don't  feel  very  well.  We  don't  seem  to  be  well.&quot;  &quot;No!  No!  It  was  Nathan!&quot;  said  Ricky,  laying  down  his  spear  and  throwing  himself  into  his  father's  arms.  &quot;It  wasn't  me.  Make  him  go  home.&quot;  Nathan,  summoning  up  his  courage,  decided  to  admit  that  the  curious  trail  of  the  crippled  animal  was  his,  and  he  said,  &quot;I'm  responsible.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  no!&quot;  cried  both  his  parents  together,  startling  him.  His  mother  rushed  over  and  fell  to  her  knees,  and  they  took  Nathan  into  their  arms  and  said  that  it  was  never,  never  him,  and  they  ruffled  his  hair  with  their  fingers,  as  though  he  had  done  something  they  could  love  him  for.  N  TER  they  came  back  from  din-  ner,  the  Shapiros,  save  Nathan,  went  down  to  the  sea  for  a  final,  sad  promenade.  At  the  restaurant,  Ricky  had  pleaded  with  his  parents  to  stay  through  the  end  of  the  week-they  had  not  even  been  tosee  the  monument  at  Kitty  Hawk,  the  Birthplace  of  Aviation.  For  Ricky's  sake,  Nathan  had  also  tried  to  persuade  them,  but  his  heart  wasn't  in  it-he  himself  wanted  so  badly  to  go  home-and  the  four  of  them  had  all  ended  up  crying  and  chewing  their  food  in  the  brass-and-  rope  dining  room  of  the  Port  O'  Call;  even  Dr.  Shapiro  had  shed  a  tear.  They  were  going  to  leave  that  night.  Nathan's  family  now  stood,  in  sweat-  shirts,  by  the  sliding  glass  door,  his  parents  straining  to  adopt  hard  and  impatient  looks,  and  Nathan  saw  that  they  felt  guilty  about  leaving  him  be-  hind  in  the  cottage.  &quot;I'll  pack  my  stuff,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Just  go.&quot;  For  a  moment  his  stomach  tight-  ened  with  angry,  secret  glee  ashis  mother  and  father,  sighing,  turned  their  backs  on  him  and  obeyed  his  small  command.  Then  he  was  alone  in  the  kitchen  again,  for  the  second  time  that  day,  and  he  wished  that  he  had  gone  to  look  at  the  ocean,  and  he  hated  his  parents,  uncertainly,  for  leaving  him  behind.  He  got  up  and  walked  into  the  bedroom  that  he  and  Ricky  had  shared.  There,  in  the  twilight  that  fell  in  orange  shafts  through  the  open  window,  the  tangle  of  their  clothes  and  bedsheets,  their  scattered  toys  and  books,  the  surfaces  of  the  broken  dresser  and  twin  headboards  seemed  dusted  with  a  filmof  radiant  sand  as  though  the  tide  had  washed  across  them  and  withdrawn,  and  the  room  was  strewn  with  the  seashells  they  had  found.  Nathan,  after  emptying  his  shoebox  of  baseball  cards  into  his  suitcase,  went  slowly  around  the  room  and  harvested  the  shells  with  careful  sweeps  of  his  trembling  hand.  Bearing  the  shoebox  back  into  the  kitchen,  he  collected  the  few  stray  shards  of  salt-white  and  greenbeach  glass  that  lay  in  a  pile  beside  the  elec-  tric  can  opener,  and  then  added  a  hol-  low  pink  crab's  leg  in  whose  claw  Ricky  had  fixed  a  colored  pencil.  When  Nathan  saw  the  little  knife  in  the  drainboard  by  the  sink,  he  hesi-  tated  only  a  moment  before  dropping  it  into  the  box,  where  it  swam,  frozen,  like  a  model  shark  in  a  museum  dio-  rama  of  life  beneath  the  sea.  Nathan  chuckled.  As  clearly  as  if  he  were  remembering  them,  he  foresaw  his  mother's  accusation,  his  father's  en-  raged  denial,  and  with  an  unhappy  chuckle  he  foresaw,  recalled,  and  fondly  began  to  preserve  all  the  dis-  cord  for  which,  in  his  wildly  preserv-  ing  imagination,  he  was  and  would  always  be  responsible."