 b"MY  left  shoelace  snapped  at  the  office  just  before  lunch.  At  some  earlier  point  in  the  morning,  my  left  shoe  had  become  un-  tied,  and  as  I  sat  at  my  desk  working  on  a  memo  my  foot  sensed  its  potential  freedom  and  slipped  out  of  the  sauna  of  black  cordovan  to  soothe  itself  with  rhythmic  movements  over  an  area  of  wall-to-wall  carpeting  under  my  desk,  which,  unlike  the  tamped-down  areas  of  public  traffic,  was  still  almost  as  soft  and  fibrous  as  it  had  been  when  first  installed.  Only  under  the  desks  and  in  the  little-used  confer-  ence  rooms  was  the  pile  still  plush  enough  to  hold  the  beau-  tiful  &quot;Ms  and  &quot;Vs  the  night  crew  left  as  strokes  of  their  vacuum  cleaners'  wands  made  swaths  of  dust-  less  tufting  lean  in  directions  that  al-  ternately  absorbed  and  reflected  the  light.  As  I  worked,  my  foot  had,  with-  out  any  sanction  from  my  conscious  will,  slipped  from  the  untied  shoe  and  sought  out  the  texture  of  the  carpet-  ing,  although  now,  asI  reconstruct  the  moment,  I  realize  that  a  more  specialized  desire  was  at  work  as  well:  when  you  slide  a  socked  foot  over  a  carpeted  surface,  the  fibres  of  sock  and  carpet  mesh  and  lock,  so  that  though  you  think  you  are  enjoying  the  texture  of  the  carpeting,  you  are  really  en-  joying  the  slippage  of  the  inner  surface  of  the  sock  against  the  underside  of  your  foot,  something  you  normally  only  get  to  experience  in  the  morning  when  you  first  pull  the  sock  on.!  At  a  few  minutes  before  twelve,  I  stopped  working,  removed  and  threw  out  my  earplugsand,  more  carefully,  the  remainder  of  my  morning  coffee-  placing  it  upright  within  the  converg-  ing  spinnakers  of  the  trash-can  liner  on  the  base  of  the  receptacle  itself.  I  stapled  a  copy  of  a  memo  someone  had  cc:d  me  on  to  a  copy  of  an  earlier  memo  I  had  written  on  the  same  sub-  ject  and  wrote  at  thetop  to  my  man-  ager,  in  my  best  casual  scrawl,  &quot;Abe-  'When  I  pull  a  sock  on,  I  no  longer  pre-bunch;  that  is,  I  don't  gather  the  sock  up  into  telescoped  folds  over  my  thumbs  and  then  position  the  resul-  tant  doughnut  over  my  toes,  even  though  I  believed  for  some  years  that  this  was  a  clever  trick,  taught  by  admirable,  fresh-faced  kindergarten  teachers,  and  that  I  revealed  my  laziness  and  my  inability  to  plan  ahead  by  instead  holding  the  sock  by  the  ankle  rim  and  jamming  my  foot  to  its  destination,  working  the  ankle  a  few  times  to  properly  seat  the  heel.  Why?  The  more  elegant  pre-bunching  can  leave  in  place  any  pieces  ofgrit  that  have  embedded  them-  selves  in  your  sole  from  the  imperfectly  swept  floor  you  walked  on  to  get  from  the  shower  to  your  room,  while  the  cruder,  more  direct  method,  though  it  risks  tearing  an  older  sock,  does  detach  this  grit  during  the  foot's  downward  passage,  so  that  you  seldom  later  feel  irritating  particles  rolling  around  under  your  arch  as  you  depart  for  the  subway.     should  I  keep  hammering  on  these  people  or  drop  it?&quot;&quot;  I  put  the  stapled  papers  in  one  of  my  Eldon  trays,  not  sure  whether  I  would  forward  them  to  Abelardo  or  not.  Then  I  slipped  my  shoe  back  on  by  flipping  it  on  its  side,  hooking  it  with  my  foot,  and  shaking  it  into  place.  I  accomplished  all  this  by  foot-feel;  and  when  I  crouched  for-  ward,  over  the  papers  on  my  desk,  to  reach  the  untied  shoelace,  I  experi-  enced  a  faint  surge  of  pride  in  being  able  to  tie  a  shoe  without  looking  at  it.  At  that  moment,  Dave,  Sue,  and  Steve,  on  their  way  to  lunch,  waved  as  they  passed  by  my  office.  Right  in  the  middle  of  ty-  ing  a  shoe  as  I  was,  I  couldn't  wave  nonchalantly  back,  so  I  called  out  a  startled,  overhearty  &quot;Have  a  good  one,  guys!&quot;  'They  disappeared.  I  pulledthe  left  shoelace  tight,  and,  bingo,  it  broke.  The  curve  of  incredulousness  and  resignation  I  rode  out  at  that  moment  was  a  kind  caused  in  life  by  a  certain  class  of  events,  disruptions  of  physical  routines,  such  as:  (a)  reaching  a  top  step  but  thinking  there  is  another  step  there  and  stamp-  ing  down  on  the  landing  (b)  pulling  on  the  red  thread  that  is  supposed  to  butterfly  a  Band-Aid  wrapper  and  having  it  wrest  free  from  the  paper  without  tearing  it  (c)  drawing  a  piece  of  Scotch  Tape  from  the  roll  that  resides  half  sunk  in  its  black,  weighted  Duesenberg  of  a  dispenser,  hearing  the  slightly  de-  scending  whisper  of  adhesive-coated  plastic  detaching  itself  from  the  back  of  the  tape  to  come  (descending  in  pitch  because  the  strip,  while  amplify-  ing  the  sound,  is  also  getting  longer  as  you  pull  on  it),  and  then,  just  as  you  are  intending  to  break  the  piece  off  over  the  metal  serration,  reaching  the  innermost  end  of  the  roll,  sothat  the  segment  you  have  been  pulling  wafts  unexpectedly  free.  Especially  now,  with  the  rise  of  Post-it  notes,  which  have  made  the  massive  black  tape  dispensers  seem  even  more  grandiose  and  Biedermeier  and  tragically  de-  funct,  you  almost  believe  that  you  will  never  come  to  the  end  of  a  roll  of  tape;  and  when  you  do,  there  is  a  feel-  *When  I  was  little  I  thought  it  was  called  Scotch  Tape  because  the  word  &quot;Scotch&quot;  imitated  the  de-  scending  screech  of  early  cellophane  tapes.  As  in-  candescence  gave  way  before  fluorescence  in  office  lighting,  Scotch  Tape,  once  yellowish-transparent,  became  bluish-transparent,  as  well  as  superbly  quiet. \n\ning,  nearly,  though  very  briefly,  of  shock  and  grief  (d)  attempting  to  staple  a  thick  memo,  and  looking  forward,  as  you  begin  to  lean  on  the  brontosaural  head  of  the  stapler  arm,&quot;  to  the  three  phases  of  the  act-  first,  before  the  stapler  arm  makes  contact  with  the  paper,  the  resistance  of  the  spring  that  keeps  the  arm  held  W  then,  second,  the  moment  when  the  small  independent  unit  in  the  stapler  arm  noses  into  the  paper  and  begins  to  force  the  two  points  of  the  staple  into  and  through  it;  and,  third,  the  felt  crunch,  like  the  chewing  of  an  ice  cube,  as  the  twin  tines  of  the  staple  emerge  from  the  underside  of  the  paper  and  are  bent  by  the  two  troughs  of  the  template  in  the  stapler's  base,  curving  inward  in  a  crab's  embrace  of  your  memo,  and  finally  dis-  engaging  from  the  machine  com-  pletely-  but  finding,  as  you  lean  on  the  stapler  with  your  elbow  locked  and  your  breath  held  and  it  slumps  toothlessly  to  the  paper,  that  it  has  run  out  of  staples.  How  could  something  this  consistent,  this  incremental,  betray  you?  (But  then  you  are  consoled:  you  Staplers  have  followed,  lagging  by  about  ten  years,  the  broad  stylistic  changes  we  have  witnessed  in  train  locomotives  and  phonograph  tonearms,  both  of  which  they  resemble.  The  oldest  staplers  are  cast-  ironic  and  upright,  like  coal-fired  locomotives  and  Edison  wax-cylinder  players.  Then,  in  mid-century,  as  locomotive  manufacturers  discovered  the  word  &quot;streamlined,&quot;  and  as  tonearm  designers  housed  the  stylus  in  aerodynamic  ribbed  plastic  hoods  that  looked  like  a  train  curving  around  a  mountain,  the  people  at  Swingline  and  Bates  tagged  along,  instinc-  tively  sensing  that  staplers  were  like  locomotives  in  that  the  two  prongs  of  the  staple  make  contact  with  a  pair  of  metal  hollows  which,  like  the  paired  rails  under  the  wheels  of  the  train,  forces  them  to  follow  a  pre-set  path,  and  that  they  were  like  phonograph  tonearms  in  that  both  machines,  roughly  the  same  size,  make  sharp  points  of  contact  with  their  respec-  tive  media  of  informational  storage.  (In  the  case  of  the  tonearm,  the  stylus  retrieves  the  information,  while  in  thecase  of  the  stapler  the  staple  binds  it  together  as  a  unit-the  order,  the  shipping  paper,  the  invoice:  boom,  stapled,  a  unit;  the  letter  of  complaint,  the  copies  of  cancelled  checks  and  re-  ceipts,  the  letter  of  apologetic  response:  boom,  sta-  pled,  a  unit,  asequence  of  memos  and  telexes  holding  the  history  of  some  interdepartmental  con-  troversy:  boom,  stapled,  one  controversy.  In  old  stapled  problems,  you  can  see  the  t.b.  vaccine  marks  in  the  upper-left  corner  where  staples  have  been  removed  and  replaced,  removed  and  replaced,  as  the  problem-even  thestaple  holes  of  the  prob-  lem-was  copied  and  sent  on  to  other  departments  for  further  action,  copying,  and  stapling.)  And  then  thegreatera  of  squareness  set  in:  BART  was  the  ideal  for  trains,  while  AR  and  Bang  &amp;  Olufsen  turntables  became  angular-no  more  cream-colored  bulbs  of  plastic!  The  people  at  Bates  and  Swingline  again  were  drawn  along,  ridding  their  devices  of  all  softening  curvatures  and  offering  black  rather  than  the  interestingly  textured  tan.  And  now,  of  course,  the  high-speed  trains  of  [REDACTED]  and  4a6170616e  have  reverted  to  aerodynamic  profiles  reminiscent  of  Popular  Science  cities-of-the-future  covers  of  the  fifties;  and  soon  the  stapler  will  incorporate  a  toned-  down  pompadour  swoop  as  well.  Sadly,  the  tonearm's  stylistic  progress  has  slowed,  because  all  the  buyers  who  would  appreciate  an  up-to-date  Soviet  Realism  in  the  design  are  buying  CD  players:  its  inspirational  era  is  over.  " b"get  to  reload  it,  laying  bare  the  stapler  arm  and  dropping  a  long  zithering  row  of  staples  into  place;  and  later,  on  the  phone,  you  get  to  toy  with  the  piece  of  the  staples  you  couldn't  fit  into  the  stapler,  breaking  it  into  smaller  segments,  making  them  dangle  on  a  hinge  of  glue.)  In  the  aftermath  of  the  broken-  shoelace  disappointment,  irrationally,  I  pictured  Dave,  Sue,  and  Steve  asI  had  just  seen  them  and  thought,  &quot;Cheerful  wipe-heads!&quot;  because  I  had  probably  broken  the  shoelace  by  trans-  ferring  the  social  energy  that  I  had  had  to  muster  in  order  to  deliver  a  chummy  &quot;Have  a  good  one!&quot;  to  them  from  my  awkward  shoe  tier's  crouch  into  the  force  I  had  used  in  pulling  on  the  shoelace.  Of  course,  it  would  have  worn  out  sooner  or  later  anyway.  It  was  the  original  shoelace,  and  the  shoes  were  the  veryones  my  father  had  bought  me  two  years  earlier,  just  after  I  had  started  this  job,  my  first  out  of  college-so  the  breakage  was  a  senti-  mental  milestone  of  sorts.  I  rolled  back  in  my  chair  to  study  the  rupture,  imagining  the  smiles  on  my  three  co-  workers'  faces  suddenly  vanishing  if  I  had  really  called  them  cheerful  wipe-  heads,  and  regretting  this  burst  of  ill-  feeling  toward  them.  As  soon  as  my  gaze  fell  to  my  shoes,  however,  I  was  reminded  of  something  that  should  have  struck  me  the  instant  the  shoelace  had  first  snapped.  The  day  before,  as  I  was  get-  ting  ready  for  work,  my  other  shoe-  lace,  the  right  one,  had  snapped,  too,  as  I  was  yanking  it  tight  to  tie  it,  under  very  similar  circumstances.  I  repaired  it  with  a  knot,  just  as  I  was  planning  to  do  now  with  the  left.  I  was  surprised-more  than  surprised  -to  think  that  after  almost  two  years  my  right  and  left  shoelaces  could  fail  less  than  two  days  apart.  Apparently  my  shoe-tying  routine  was  so  unvary-  ing  and  robotic  that  over  those  hun-  dreds  of  mornings  I  had  inflicted  identical  levels  of  wear  on  both  laces.  The  near-simultaneity  was  exciting  -it  made  the  variables  of  private  life  seem  suddenly  graspable  and  law-abid-  ing.  gI  moistened  the  splayed  threads  of  the  snapped-off  piece  and  twirled  them  into  a  damp,  unwholesome  minaret.  Breathing  steadily  and  softly  through  my  nose,  I  was  able  to  guide  the  sa-  liva-sharpened  leader  thread  through  the  eyelet  without  too  much  trouble.  And  then  I  grew  uncertain.  In  order  for  the  shoelaces  to  have  worn  to  the  breaking  point  on  almost  the  same  day,  they  would  have  had  to  be  tied  almost  exactly  the  same  number  of  times.  But  when  Dave,  Sue,  and  Steve  passed  my  office  door,  I  had  been  in  the  middle  of  tying  one  shoe-one  shoe  only.  And  in  the  course  of  a  normal  day  it  wasn't  at  all  unusual  for  one  shoe  to  come  untied  independent  of  the  other.  In  the  morning,  of  course,  you  always  tied  both  shoes,  but  random  midday  comings-undone  would  have  to  have  constituted  a  sig-  nificant  proportion  of  the  total  wear  on  both  of  these  broken  laces,  I  felt-  possibly  thirty  per  cent.  And  how  could  I  be  positive  that  this  thirty  per  cent  was  equally  distributed  -that  right  and  left  shoes  had  come  ran-  domly  undone  over  the  last  two  years  with  the  same  frequency?  I  tried  to  call  up  some  sample  memories  of  shoe  tying  to  determine  whether  one  shoe  tended  to  come  un-  tied  more  often  than  another.  What  I  found  was  that  I  did  not  retain  a  single  specific  engram  of  tying  a  shoe,  or  a  pair  of  shoes,  that  dated  from  any  later  than  when  I  was  four  or  five  years  old,  the  age  that  I  had  first  learned  the  skill.  Over  twenty  years  of  empirical  data  was  lost  forever,  a  com-  plete  blank.  But  I  suppose  this  is  often  true  of  moments  of  life  that  are  re-  membered  as  major  advances:  the  dis-  covery  is  the  crucial  thing,  not  its  repeated  later  applications.  As  it  hap-  pened,  the  first  three  major  advances  in   my  life,  and  I  will  list  all  the  advances  here-  .  shoe  tying  .  pulling  up  on  shoelaces  before  tying  .  steadying  hand  against  sneaker  when  tying  .  brushing  tongue  as  well  as  teeth  .  putting  on  deodorant  after  I  was  fully  dressed  .  discovering  that  sweeping  was  fun  .  ordering  a  rubber  stamp  with  my  ad-  dress  on  it  to  make  bill  paying  more  efficient  8.  deciding  that  brain  cells  ought  to  die-  &lt;-  have  to  do  with  shoe  tying,  but  I  don't  think  that  this  fact  is  very  unusual.  Shoes  are  the  first  adult  machines  we  are  given  to  master.  I  made  several  attempts  to  learn  the  skill,  but  it  was  not  until  my  mother  placed  a  lamp  on  the  floor  so  that  I  could  clearly  see  the  dark  laces  of  a  pair  of  new  dress  shoes  that  I  really  mastered  it;  she  explained  again  how  to  form  the  introductory  platform  knot,  which  began  high  in  the  air  as  a  frail,  heart-shaped  loop,  and  shrank  as  you  pulled  the  plastic  lace  tips  down  to  a  short  twisted  kernel  three-eighths  of  an  inch  long,  and  she  showed  me  how  to  progress  from  that  base  to  the  main  cotyledonary  string  figure,  which  was,  as  it  turned  out,  not  a  true  knot  but  an  illusion,  a  trick  that  you  performed  on  the  lace  string  by  bending  segments  of  it  back  on  them-  selves  and  tightening  other  temporary  bends  around  them:  it  looked  like  a  knot  and  functioned  like  a  knot,  but  the  whole  thing  was  really  an  amaz- " b"ing  interdependent  pyramid  scheme,  which  much  later  I  connected  with  a  couplet  of  Pope's:  Man,  like  the  gen'rous  vine,  sup-  ported  lives;  The  strength  he  gains  is  from  th'embrace  he  gives.  Another  advance  I  made  by  myself  inthe  middle  of  a  playground,  when  I  halted,  out  of  breath,  to  tie  a  sneaker,&quot;  my  mouth  on  my  interesting-smelling  knee,  a  closeup  view  of  anthills  and  the  tread  marks  of  other  sneakers  be-  fore  me  (the  best  kind,  Keds,  I  think,  or  Red  Ball  Flyers,  had  a  perimeter  of  asymmetrical  triangles,  and  a  few  con-  cavities  in  the  center  which  printed  perfect  domes  of  dust),  and  found  as  I  retied  the  shoe  that  I  was  doing  it  automatically,  without  having  to  con-  centrate  on  it  as  I  had  done  at  first,  and,  more  important,  that  somewhere  *Sneaker  knots  were  quite  different  from  dress  knots-when  you  pulled  the  two  loops  tight  atthe  end,  the  logic  of  the  knot  youhad  just  created  became  untraceable;  while  in  the  case  of  dress-lace  knots  you  could,  even  after  tightening,  follow  the  path  of  the  knot  around  with  your  mind,  as  if  riding  a  roller  coaster.  You  could  imagine  a  sneaker-shoe-  lace  and  a  dress-shoelace  knot  standing  side  by  side  saying  the  pledge  of  allegiance:  the  dress-shoelace  knot  would  pronounce  each  word  as  a  grammatical  unit,  understanding  it  as  more  than  a  sound;  the  sneaker-shoelace  knot  would  run  the  words  together  The  great  advantage  of  sneakers,  though,  one  of  the  many  advantages,  was  that  when  you  had  tied  them  tightly,  without  wearing  socks,  and  worn  them  all  day,  and  gotten  them  wet,  and  taken  them  off  before  bed,  your  feet  would  display  the  impression  of  the  chrome  eyelets  in  red  rows  down  the  sides  of  your  foot,  like  the  portholes  in  a  Jules  Verne  subma-  rine.  over  the  past  year  since  I  had  first  learned  the  basic  moves  I  had  evidently  evolved  two  little  sub-steps  of  my  own  that  nobody  had  showed  me.  In  one  I  held  down  a  temporarily  taut  stretch  of  shoelace  with  the  side  of  my  thumb;  in  the  other  I  stabilized  my  hand  with  a  middle  finger  propped  againstthe  side  of  the  sneaker  during  some  final  manipulations.  The  advance  here  was  my  recognition  that  I  had  indepen-  dently  developed  refinements  of  tech-  nique  in  an  area  where  nobodyhad  in-  dicated  there  were  refinements  to  be  found:  I  had  personalized  an  already  adult  procedure.  N  TER  I  finished  the  repair  knot,a  lump  with  two  frizzed  ends  just  below  thetop  pairof  eyelets,  I  pulled  on  the  tongue  of  the  shoe-one  of  the  little  preludes  to  tying  that  my  father  had  showed  me-and  gingerly  began  the  regulation  knot.  I  took  special  care  to  scale  down  the  bunny's  ear  that  I  had  to  form  from  the  now  shorter  lace  end,  so  that  there  would  be  enough  leeway  to  pull  it  tight  without  mis-  hap.&gt;  When  the  lace  was  finally  tied,  I  tapped  both  shoe  toes  on  the  carpeting  'I  don't  like  it  when  you  end  up  with  only  one  of  the  two  bunny's  ears  that  make  up  a  normal  bow,  for  if  for  some  reason  the  lace  end  forming  that  one  ear  works  free  you  have  no  backup  and  you  end  up  with  a  square  knot  that  you  have  to  tease  untied  with  your  fingernails,  blood  rushing  to  your  head  and  said,  shaking  my  head,  &quot;Nothing  holds  me  back  for  long,  man.&quot;  Then  I  stood,  rolled  my  chair  back  into  place,  and  took  a  step  toward  my  office  door.  But  as  soon  as  I  took  that  step  I  experienced  a  sharpening  of  dissatis-  faction  with  the  whole  notion  that  my  daily  acts  of  shoe  tying  could  have  alone  worn  out  my  shoelaces.  What  about  the  variety  oftiny  stretchings  and  pullings  that  the  shoe  itself  ex-  erted  on  its  laces  as  I  walked  around?  Walking  was  what  wore  down  my  heels;  walking  was  what  put  the  creases  in  my  shoe  toes-was  I  sup-  posed  to  discount  the  significance  of  walking  in  the  chafing  of  my  laces?  I  remembered  shots  in  movies  of  a  rope  that  held  up  a  bridge  cutting  itself  against  a  sharprock  as  the  bridge  swayed.  Even  if  the  shoelace's  fabric  moved  only  millimetrically  against  its  eyelet  with  each  step,  that  sawing  back  and  forth  might  even-  tually  cut  through  the  outer  fibres,  though  the  lace  would  not  actually  pop  until  a  relatively  large  force,  such  as  the  first  tug  I  gave  it  when  tying,  was  applied.  All  right!  Much  better!  This  walk-  ing-flexion  model  (as  I  styled  it  to  myself,  in  opposition  to  the  earlier  pulling-and-fraying  model)  account-  ed  for  the  coincidence  of  yesterday's  and  today's  breakages  very  well,  I  thought.  Still,  ifit  were  true  that  the  laces  frayed  from  walking  flexion,  why  did  they  invariably  fray  only  in  contact  with  thetop  pair  of  eyelets  on  each  shoe?  I  paused  in  my  door-  way,  looking  out  at  the  rest  of  the  office,  resisting  this  further  unwelcome  puzzlement.  I  had  never  heard  of  a  shoelace  parting  over  some  middle  eye-  let.  Possibly  the  stress  of  walking  fell  most  forcefully  on  the  lace  bent  around  the  top  eyelets,  just  as  the  stress  of  pulling  the  laces  tight  to  tie  them  did.  It  was  conceivable,  though  scary  to  imagine,  that  the  pull-fray  model  and  the  walk-flex  model  mingled  their  coefficients  so  subtly  that  human  agency  would  never  accurately  appor-  tion  cause.  Freed,  for  the  instant,  from  fur-  ther  lace  concern,  I  moved  the  green  magnetized  plastic  puck  next  to  my  name  on  the  sign-out  board  from  IN  to  OUT,  bringing  it  inline  with  Dave's,  Sue's,  and  Steve's  pucks,  wrote  &quot;Lunch,&quot;  in  matching  green  Magic  Marker,  in  the  space  provided  for  ex-  planation,  and  walked  out  without  a  care  in  the  world. "