 b"A MEAN  little  storm  passed  through  Weatherwax  on  the  first  day  of  the  leaf  pickup,  and  a  car  went  into  a  skid  at  lunchtime,  striking  a  boy  before  coming  to  a  stop  in  the  leaves  where  the  boy  was  hid-  ing.  The  driver  continued  on,  un-  aware  of  what  had  happened.  The  boy's  name  was  Randy  Bren-  nan.  He  was  small  for  his  age,  which  was  eight  and  a  half.  His  mother  taught  P.E.  and  coached  the  girls'  volleyball  team  at  the  high  school  in  Fillmore,  six  miles  up  the  river.  His  father  was  a  sculptor  in  unwieldy  met-  als  who  supplemented  his  income  by  tending  bar  at  the  Sundial  Lounge,  a  hundred  feet  from  where  Randy  was  lying.  The  boy  was  supposed  to  be  in  school,  but  restlessness  had  been  like  afever  in  him  recently,  and  he  kept  going  on  little  excursions  of  rebel-  liousness  that  only  got  him  in  trouble  with  his  parents.  At  the  time  he  was  hit  by  the  car,  he  was  stretched  out  under  the  cold  leaves  confident  he  couldnot  be  seen;  his  coat  was  the  wet-brown  color  of  the  raked  leaves,  and  by  keeping  his  head  down  he  min-  imized  the  beacon  signal  of  his  red  knit  cap.  He  could  lie  there  in  the  leaves  on  Weatherwax  Avenue  and  keep  watch  over  his  father  and  never  be  seen.  RANDY\xe2\x80\x99S  father,  Craig,  was  in  the  Sundial  Lounge  washing  glasses  one-handed.  He  had  burned  his  left  hand  the  night  be-  fore  with  his  acetylene  ing  late  without  gauntlets,  he  was  trying  to  salvage  a  piece  that  had  consumed  six  months  of  his  time.  Frus-  trated  that  the  teetering  mess  had  resisted  all  his  attempts  at  con-  junction,  he  had  glanced  around  him  at  the  small,  chilly  converted  garage  imagining  setting  fire  to  the  place.  He  had  insurance;  he  could  use  the  money  to  start  fresh.  But  in  the  midst  of  this  reverie  he  lost  track  of  the  position  of  the  flame  and  touched  it  to  the  back  of  his  hand.  For  a  moment  he  looked  at  the  burn  with  genuine  curiosity.  The  skin  was  black  and  peeled  back,  as  if  the  flame  had  run  across  his  hand  like  a  plow.  The  hairs  on  either  side  of  this  furrow  had  been  turned  to  ash.  Now  he  wedged  each  wet  glass  be-  tween  his  hip  and  the  rim  of  the  sink  counter,  and  then  jabbed  the  soapy  sponge-stick  into  the  glass  with  his  good  hand.  The  pain  that  followed  his  brief,  curious  inspection  of  the  burn  had  a  life  of  its  own.  Francie  had  driven  him  to  the  emergency  room,  which  was  eleven  miles  down  the  river,  in  Lubbers.  Randy  and  Glynnis  rode  in  the  back  seat.  Craig  sat  hunched  forward,  holding  the  burn  in  a  coffee  can  filled  with  ice  water,  which  had  been  Francie's  idea.  RANDY  BrEnnan  hurried  down  Weatherwax  Avenue  expectinga  shout  from  his  teacher,  Mrs.  Junkins,  torch.  A  glancing  violet  g  flame,  barely  a  touch,  had  flashed  across  his  skin  while  he  was  working  in  his  stu-  dio.  He  had  been  having,  trouble  lately  knowing  when  a  piece  was  finished.  Each  tended  to  grow  cumbersome,  to  slip  out  of  any  sort  of  har-  mony,  as  he  welded  new  ele-  ments  to  the  work  in  a  a  _s  search  for  exactly  what  he  was  trying  to  accomplish.  Tired  and  careless,  work-  which  would  end  his  escape.  But  he  was  just  one  of  thirty-four  children  in  his  classroom,  and  on  the  battlefield  of  recess,  where  two  other  classes  of  com-  parable  size  were  also  set  loose,  he  and  a  dozen  other  children  could  walk  away  without  any  teacher  noticing.  'The  students  had  been  turned  out  to  beat  the  approaching  storm,  which  was  just  a  rumor  on  the  radio,  a  nervous  buzz  in  the  air.  The  teachers  wanted  to  get  the  children  out  in  the  cold  wind  to  burn  away  some  of  the  energy  that  would  be  merciless  in  the  afternoon  if  not  expended  sooner.  Randy  found  himself  behind  the  bus  shelter  across  the  street  from  the  Sun-  dial  Lounge.  The  air  was  cold,  sil-  very  with  the  approaching  sleet,  and  he  thought  about  stepping  into  the  tavern,  surprising  his  father,  having  a  sandwich  and  getting  warm  before  being  sent  good-naturedly  back  to  school.  But  his  father  would  not  un-  derstand.  He  would  demand  to  know  what  Randy  was  doing  away  from  school.  He  would  greet  him  as  a  kid  who  had  screwed  up  again.  Randy  considered  just  sneaking  up  and  looking  in  the  Sundial's  window.  At  lunchtime  his  father  would  be  busy  and  not  likelyto  notice  him  spying  through  the  thin  gap  between  the  Weatherwax  High  basketball  schedule  and  a  community-blood-drive  flyer.  He  wanted  to  see  if  hisfa-  ther's  wounded  hand  was  giving  him  as  much  pain  as  it  had  on  the  drive  to  Lub-  bers.  He  had  never  seen  his  father  cry  before.  &gt;  If  he  waited  long  enough,  school  would  be  out,  and  he  would  seehis  father  leave  for  home.  He  could  nonchalantly  come  up  behind  him,  and  his  presence  would  seem  per-  fectly  natural.  His  father  might  welcome  the  com-  pany,  invite  him  into  his  studio.  The  chilly  room,  with  its  scorched-iron  smell  and  jungle  of  metals  and  sculptures,  was  off  limitsto  Randy  unless  he  was  in  his  father's  com-  pany.  Randy  loved  it  in  there.  He  had  his  own  three-legged  stool  to  sit  on,  out  of  the  way.  His  father  appeared  to  forget  he  was  there,  as  if  Randy  were  " b"wearing  a  shirt  the  color  of  the  garage  wall  and  were  hidden.  Randy  knew  enough  not  to  aska  lot  of  questions,  lest  he  break  his  father's  concentration  and  be  told  toleave.  He  liked  the  colors  of  the  acetylene  flames:  violet,  green,gaseous.  He  liked  it  when  his  father  let  him  try  on  the  cumbersome  welder's  helmet,  its  filmy  window  cut-  ting  the  room  down  to  strict  dimen-  sions,  his  breathing  echoing  in  his  ears;  Randy  thought  this  was  what  it  must  be  like  to  drown.  Now  he  had  returned  to  theplace  where  he  had  waited  before.  He  could  be  out  ofsight  and  still  keep  watch  over  his  father.  He  lay  down  in  the  leaves,  on  his  back  first.  But  his  angle  of  vision  was  bad  from  that  position,  and  little  pins  of  sleet  had  begun  to  fall  and  sting  his  face.  He  rolled  onto  his  stomach  and  pulled  leaves  out  from  under  him  and  transferred  them  to  the  layer  on  top  of  him.  He  left  a  compar-  atively  dry  layer  of  leaves  beneath  him.  He  rested  his  head  on  his  folded  arms.  In  a  minute  he  was  out  of  sight.  HE  town  of  Weatherwax  was  built  on  a  steep  hillside.  The  leaf  pickup  began  at  the  bottom  of  the  hill,  along  Weatherwax  Avenue,  which  hugged  the  river  all  the  way  through  town.  Each  autumn  day  and  into  the  early  winter,  the  red  municipal  leaf  trucks  could  be  heard  from  three  blocks  away,  their  vacuums  humming  like  bees,  advancing  back  and  forth  up  the  hill,  sucking  up  the  leaves  that  the  residents  of  Weatherwax  had  raked  into  piles  at  the  curb.  Around  noon  on  the  first  day  of  the  pickup,  a  leaf  truck  pulled  away  from  the  Sundial  Lounge,  where  the  driver,  Al  Franks,  had  just  eaten  lunch.  A  thick  hose  extended  from  the  storage  bay  out  over  the  windshield  of  the  truck.  The  hose  was  maneuvered  with  a  joystick  from  the  cab.  Almost  imme-  diately,  the  hose  mouth  grabbed  Randy  Brennan  between  the  shoulders  and  lifted  him  clear  of  the  leaves,  just  far  enough  for  Al  Franks  to  realize  what  he  had  found.  A  NOISE  somewhere  high  in  the  house  awakened  Randy,  and  he  lay  without  moving  for  several  min-  utes,  wondering  if  he  had  dreamed  his  father's  burn.  A  little  light  had  seeped  into  his  room.  Glynnis,  who  lately  requirednearly  an  hour  to  get  ready  for  school  each  morning,  would  arise  soon  to  dominate  the  downstairs  bath,  room  and  the  hot  water.  Randy  got  out  of  bed  and  walked  in  his  socks  and  pajamas  down  the  hall  tohis  parents'  bedroom.  The  door  was  open  an  inch.  He  put  his  ear  to  this  gap  and  listened.  First  he  heard  his  mother's  breathing,  and  this  troubled  him.  Usually  she  couldnot  be  heard  over  his  father's  snores.  But  there  she  was,  out  of  sight  around  the  edge  of  the  door,  breathing  in  a  deep,  slow  cadence.  Randy  put  a  finger  to  the  door  and  pushed.  The  foot  of  his  parents'  bed  came  into  sight-the  elongated  pla-  teaus  and  the  rises  of  two  pairs  of  feet  under  white  covers.  He  pushed  the  door  open  farther.  His  mother  was  asleep  on  her  back,  her  head  nestled  in  a  basket  of  her  crumpled  hair;  hisfa-  ther  wasawake  and  looking  over  at  him  without  evident  interest,  his  band-  aged  hand  held  like  a  club  over  his  head.  After  looking  at  Randy  he  re-  turned  his  attention  to  his  hand,  turn-  ing  it  this  way  and  thatin  the  gray  light,  wiggling  his  fingertips  a  little,  just  staring  at  what  he  had  done  to  himself.  He  glanced  back  at  Randy  and  whispered  with  what  the  boy  took  to  be  impatience  that  he  should  go  back  to  bed,  it  was  too  early  to  be  up.  The  night  before,  Randy  was  watching  TV  and  his  mother  was  go-  ing  over  Glynnis's  homework  when  they  heard  Craig  scream.  Randy  saw  his  father  first.  Looking  through  the  living-room  window,  he  saw  him  come  crashing  out  the  door  of  the  studio,  advancing  on  them  through  the  fog-lamp  light  above  the  garage,  his  burned  hand  clutched  desperately  at  the  wrist  with  his  other  hand.  The  hand that  he  held  looked strangely  diminished,  il  like  the  head  ofa  dousedmatch.  Randy's  mother  was  the  first  to  understand.  She  yanked  a  can  of  coffee  from  a  cupboard  and  emptied  it  on  the  counter.  She  gave  the  can  a  quick  rinse  to  let  the  water  get  colder,  and  had  the  can  half  \xe2\x80\x98  full  by  the  time  her  j  .  husband  came  bellow-  ing  into  the  room.  She  turned,  almost  as  if greeting  him  with  a  \xc2\xa7  gift,  and  he  plunged  the  burned  hand  into  the  water,  splashing  them  both,  letting  out  another  shriek.  Randy's  mother  guid-ed  his  father  to  the  counter  by  pulling  the  can  that  way.  " b"   &quot;Oh,  God,&quot;  she  whispered.  &quot;You  poor  thing.&quot;  Expertly  she  cracked  an  ice  tray  against  the  counter  opposite  where  her  husband  stood.  She  dumped  the  cubes  and  shards  into  the  can.  Randy  thought  he  saw  steam  rising  from  the  water,  thought  he  heard  it  hiss.  &quot;Let's  get  you  to  the  emergency  room,&quot;  his  mother  said.  Firmly  she  ordered  Randy  and  Glynnis  into  their  coats.  She  shooed  them  from  the  kitchen  to  accomplish  this  chore,  and  to  tear  their  eyes  from  the  sight  of  their  father  hunched  over  the  ice  water.  She  took  the  car  keys  down  off  the  hook  that  Randy  had  made  in  first  grade  and  hustled  her  children  out  into  the  cold,  clearing  the  way  for  her  husband,  who  came  last,  slowly,  carrying  his  cargo.  Before  they  left  she  asked,  &quot;Did  you  turn  off  the  torch?&quot;  FRANCIE  BRENNAN  called  her  hus-  band  during  her  lunch  break  to  gauge  the  pain  in  his  hand.  She  would  encourage  him  to  leave  the  Sundial  for  the  day;  their  family  could  survive  without  the  forty  dollars  he  might  earn  in  the  afternoon.  But  she  knew  he  would  refuse.  Every  dollar  he  made  was  important  to  him,  because  he  saw  it  as  one  way  to  buy  space  in  her  life  until  he  could  pay  his  way  as  a  sculptor.  She  used  the  pay  phone  outside  the  gym,  because  there  was  more  privacy  there  in  the  raucous  halls  than  in  the  cramped  P.E.  office.  Girls  on  her  vol-  leyball  team  crept  past,  winking,  stick-  ingout  their  tongues  at  her.  They  were  tall,  strong  girls,  agile  leapers.  She  could  not  have  chosen  better  play-  ers  if  she  had  recruited  them,  and  as  a  result  her  team  had  not  lost  in  almost  two  years,  and  her  advice  was  sought  by  other  coaches.  She  felt  silly  ex-  pounding  on  her  philosophy  of  volley-  ball,  when  all  the  others  needed  was  tall,  leaping  girls  who  had  no  other  interests,  really,  except  volleyball.  Someone,  a  strange  voice,  answered  at  the  Sundial  Lounge.  The  person  said  his  name  was  Glen;he  had  reached  over  the  bar  and  picked  up  the  phone  when  nobody  appeared  willing  to  answer  it.  He  did  not  know  who  Craig  Brennan  was;  he  knew  only  that  he  had  the  bar  to  himself  and  his  beer  glass  was  empty.  She  called  the  house.  They  had  a  place  a  few  blocks  from  the  river,  an  architectural  commonplace  made  re-  markable  by  its  positioning  on  the  side  of  the  hill.  She  would  often  look  out  the  window  while  cracking  an  egg  or  pouring  milk  in  the  kitchen  and  imag-  ine  that  she  was  living  on  a  slant,  that  only  an  extended  act  of  faith  kept  her  from  sliding  to  the  downhill  side  of  the  house.  Each  morning  she  was  sur-  prisedtosee  the  car  still  in  the  street  where  she  had  parked  it.  She  was  con-  vinced  that  one  night  all  their  preven-  tive  measures-the  parking  brake,  the  wheels  turned  in  to  the  curb,  and  the  stone  chocks  under  the  wheels-would  be  proved  meaningless  and  the  car  would  simply  roll  away  down  to  the  river.  No  one  answered  her  call  at  home.  Her  children  were  in  school;  she  thought  her  husband  was  at  work.  Her  inability  to  put  her  finger  on  his  " b"whereabouts,  to  exchange  a  few  words  with  him  before  she  had  to  go  to  class,  set  a  small  storm  of  nervous  dread  loose  inher.  Outside,  in  the  courtyard,  where  the  students  went  to  smoke  in  better  weather,  she  saw  snow  falling  heavy  and  sharp  as  iron  filings,  and  nearly  of  the  same  color.  She  phoned  the  Sundial  one  more  time,  and  after  many  rings  the  same  stranger  picked  up  the  phone  and  informed  her  that  nothing  had  changed  except  that  his  glass  was  a  little  drier.  TILL  some  miles  from  thehospi-  tal,  Randy  heard  his  father  tell  his  mother,  &quot;I've  melted  the  ice.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;We'll  be  there  in  a  jiff,  darling.&quot;  Randy  looked  over  at  Glynnis,  who  was  watching  the  river.  She  had  had  the  presence  of  mind  to  bring  abook,  and  now  had  it  open  on  her  lap,  though  there  was  no  light  to  read  by.  She  ran  her  fingers  lightly  across  it,  back  and  forth,  still  looking  at  the  river.  They  spilled  some  water  getting  his  father  out  of  thecar  near  the  emer-  gency  room.  His  shirtsleeve  had  un-  rolled  and  fallen  into  the  can,  and  the  wetness  had  soaked  up  almost  tohis  elbow.  He  stared  down  into  the  can  of  water  ashis  wife  guided  him  into  the  hospital.  A  nurse  came  forward,  looked  into  the  water,  and  removed  Craig  from  his  wife's  care.  She  led  him  through  double  doors,  leaving  Randy  and  Glynnis  and  their  mother  behind.  Over  the  next  three  hours,  Randy  tried  to  behave.  Glynnis,  with  her  nat-  ural  inclination  toward  the  studious,  hardly  budged  after  she  had  taken  a  seat  along  the  wall  and  found  her  place  in  her  book.  She  understood  that  inevitably  she  would  be  informed,  and  in  the  meanwhile  there  was  time  to  be  put  to  good  use.  Randy  wanted  to  know  what  was  happening  every  moment.  He  pestered  his  mother  to  question  anyone  who  looked  even  remotely  like  a  doctor.  His  mother  finally  was  summoned  inside  the  double  doors,  and  he  nearly  ex-  ploded  waiting  for  her  to  return.  Glynnis  barely  raised  her  head  (and  kept  a  finger  on  her  place)  when  their  mother  came  back  with  news  that  their  father  had  suffered  a  third-degree  burn.  He  would  be  in  a  great  deal  of  pain  that  night  and  for  several  days  afterward.  He  was  not  to  be  bothered  under  any  circumstances.  While  they  waited  for  him  to  be  released,  Randy  moved  around  looking  for  a  place  where  he  would  be  most  out  of  sight.  He  was  wearing  ablue  sweater  and  green  jeans  with  billowy military  pockets  on  the  legs.  No  colors  in  the  waiting  room  matched  his  out-  fit,  and  he  moved  around  feeling  ex-  posed,  afraid  his  father  would  emerge  and  catch  him  in  the  open.  His  mother  was  called  back  into  the  emergency  room.  She  came  outalone  again,  like  someone  sent  ahead  with  a  warning.  &quot;They  gave  him  something  for  pain,&quot;she  told  her  children.  &quot;I  don't  want  you  to  make  a  sound.  Got  that?&quot;  When  Craig  did  finally  come  out,  he  did  not  seem  to  recognize  anyone  other  than  his  wife.  Something  seemed  to  be  missing,  a  piece  of  light  from  his  eyes  which  Randy  hadn't  realized  ex-  isted  until  it  was  removed.  Randy's  mother  led  Craig  outside  and  helped  him  into  the  front  seat.  His  injured  hand  had  been  swathed  in  bandages;  it  reminded  Randy  of  the  end  of  a  bone.  As  they  pulled  away  from  the  hospi-  tal,  his  father  leaned  his  head  back  against  the  seat.  Within  minuteshe  had  begun  to  snore,  and  this  sawing  of  the  air,  annoying  under  any  other  cir-  cumstances,  comforted  Randy,  as  if  it  were  final  proof  that  he  had  his  father  back.  CRAIG  was  turning  his  bad  hand  this  way  and  that  when  he  heard  the  siren.  A  police  car.  Close  by.  He  was  familiar  with  the  town's  cops.  They  came  into  the  bar  for  free  beer  and  roast-beef  sandwiches  at  the  end  oftheir  shifts,  in  exchange  for  quick  re-  sponses  to  the  occasional  fights  at  the  Sundial  Lounge.  A  couple  of  guys  drinking  beer  in  a  booth  stood  and  pressed  their  faces  to  the  front  win-  dow  to  get  a  look  at  the  cause  of  all  the  excitement.  The  glass  fogged  up  in  front  of  them  before  they  could  make  a  confident  de-  termination  of  events,  but  their  curiosity  was  aroused  sufficiently  to  draw  them  out  into  the  cold  without  their  coats  on.  Other  drinkers  straggled  out.  Something  was  going  on  down  by  the  river.  A  leaf  truck  was  parked  there,  as  was  a  police  car.  Other  people  came  running,  slip-  ping  on  the  new  snow  and  the  wet  leaves.  Jim  Sarkisian,  the  owner  of  the  Sundial  Lounge,  " b"was  the  person  who  told  Craig  about  Randy.  He  had  left  the  bar  in  Craig's  care,  pulling  on  a  sweater,  eager  to  go  and  investigate.  He  was  a  manwho  never  spent  much  time  in  his  own  business,  and  when  he  was  on  the  premises  he  looked  for  any  excuse  to  get  out.  He  liked  to  go  for  walks  with  his  patrons  who  had  had  too  much  to  drink,  throwing  an  arm  over  their  shoul-  ders  and  guiding  them  out  to  take  the  fresh  air  by  the  river,  or,  if  they  lived  nearby,  ac-  companying  them  right  to  their  front  door.  He  had  survived  two  heart  attacks,  and  his  doctor  had  pre-  scribed  exercise,  so  he  walked  everywhere  in  town,  even  tohis  house  up  at  the  crest  of  the  hill.  Jim  knew  Randy  from  those  occasions  when  the  boy  came  into  the  bar  to  visit  his  father.  Craig  didn't  like  his  son  to  come  there;  the  lights,  the  smoke,  the  music,  the  whole  aura  of  the  place  were  elements  of  his  life  that  he  did  not  want  to  advertise  to  Randy.  But  Randy  came  over  to  bring  his  father  a  forgotten  lunch,  or  just  to  sur-  prise  him  on  a  Satur-  day  afternoon;  he  would  come  up  behind  him  in  the  TV  din  of  the  football  game,  tap  him  on  the  hip  and  demand  his  attention  for  a  few  minutes.  A  rumor  had  floated  into  the  bar  that  someone  had  been  hit  by  a  car.  A  hit-and-run.  The  ambu-  lance  in  Lubbers  had  been  summoned.  Craig  drew  a  beer  for  the  only  cus-  tomer  left  in  the  place.  Craig's  wife  was  at  work;  his  children  were  safe  in  school.  He  wiped  down  the  counter  with  a  damp  rag,  then  drifted  to  the  window.  Jim  was  coming  back.  He  was  running  up  a  slight  incline,  into  the  wind,  his  head  bowed  and  his  hands  in  his  pockets.  He  skidded  a  lit-  tle  reaching  the  door,  then  he  was  in-  side,  looking  wildly  around  for  Craig.  &quot;What?&quot;  Craig  said,  scared  by  the  dread  in  Jim's  eyes.  &quot;Go  down  there,&quot;  Jim  said,  gently  drawing  the  towel  from  Craig's  fin-  gers.  &quot;I  think  it's  Randy.&quot;  &quot;He's  in  school.&quot;  &quot;'You're  probably  right.  Go  make  sure,  though.&quot;  Craig  took  a  moment  getting  his  coat  out  of  the  basement,  and  when  he  came  back  up  Jim  was  gone,  leaving  " b"the  place  empty  except  for  the  cus-  tomer  drinking  the  beer  and  reading  the  newspaper  at  the  bar.  &quot;You  want  a  refill?&quot;  Craig  asked  conscientiously  before  heading  for  the  door.  &quot;No,  thanks.  I'll  be  fine.&quot;  Craig  kept  his  injured  hand  in  his  coat  pocket  as  he  approached  the  scene.  Randy's  school  was  four  blocks  away  -an  easy  distance  for  a  kid  to  cover.  And  Randy  had  been  restless  of  late,  having  trouble  sleeping,  picking  fights  with  Glynnis.  His  whole  attitude  was  one  of  wandering:  his  attention,  his  interest  in  school,  his  very  participa-  tion  in  the  family.  The  figure  on  the  ground  was  wearing  a  brown  coat  like  Randy's,  and  a  hat  like  his,  too-a  red  knit  stocking  cap.  Craig  verified  it  was  Randy  from  a  distance  of  about  a  yard  as  he  broke  through  the  rings  of  the  curious  and  saw  his  son's  face  pointed  to  the  sky.  He  was  frowning,  his  eyes  squeezed  shut,  a  bruise  floating  like  a  thundercloud  beneath  the  skin  at  the  corner  of  his  forehead.  Craig  dropped  tohis  knees  and  cupped  the  small  head  under  one  hand.  He  looked  for  blood  in  the  ears.  A  policeman-his  name  would  have  come  to  Craig  under  other  circumstances-told  him  to  be  careful.  Craig  had  to  put  his  ear  to  Randy's  mouth  to  getthe  satisfaction  of  feeling  a  warm  breath.  He  scraped  a  leaf  chip  from  the  corner  of  his  son's  mouth.  RANDY  had  asked  his  father  if  he  could  come  out  to  watch  him  work.  Dinner  was  over,  Glynnis  was  in  her  room  doing  her  homework.  Randy  saw  the  brief  hesitancy  inhis  father's  eyes  before  he  agreed.  His  mother  told  him  to  put  on  his  old  coat  -it  was  cold  and  dirty  in  the  studio.  While  he  was  digging  for  the  coat  in  the  closet  he  heard  the  back  door  slam,  and  his  father  was  gone.  &quot;Go  on,&quot;  his  mother  said  when  she  saw  him  looking  at  the  old  garage  through  the  window.  &quot;He  said  you  could  go.  He's  never  going  to  drag  you  with  him  by  the  hand.&quot;  So  he  pulled  on  the  old  coat  and  his  red  hat  and  went  out.  His  father  was  already  busy  in  the  corner,  his  back  to  him.  His  sleeves  were  rolled  up.  It  was  cold-a  deep,  metal  cold  that  did  not  seem  to  bother  his  father.  &quot;Bring  that  book  of  matches  over  here,&quot;  his  father  said  without  turning  around.  He  used  one  match  to  light  some  candles,  saving  the  flame  until  Randy  was  certain  he  would  burn  his  fingers,  then  kneeling  and  using  the  last  spark  to  fire  up  the  pilot  light  on  the  gas  heater.  Randy  pulled  his  stool  over  so  he  could  sit  near  the  warmth.  He  won-  dered  if  he  should  speak.  His  father  had  a  vaguely  triangular  piece  of  metal  about  the  size  of  an  unfolded  scarf  clamped  in  a  vise.  He  worked  atthis  piece  with  a  file,  rasping  the  tool  over  the  metal's  razor  edge,  making  a  shriek  that  hurt  Randy's  ears.  After  a  few  minutes  of  this  his  father  set  the  metal  on  his  workbench  and  began  to  dimple  it  with  the  rounded  end  of  a  ball-peen  hammer.  Randy  liked  the  look  of  his  father  at  work-the  mus-  cles  in  his  arm  as  he  raised  the  ham-  mer,  the  tension  across  his  shoulders  and  down  his  back.  When  his  father  was  concentrating  on  his  work,  he  was  less  apt  to  be  paying  attention  to  Randy,  and  Randy  felt  then  most  com-  fortable  watching  his  father  closely.  After  nearly  a  half  hour  of  work,  his  fathercarried  the  piece  of  metal  across  the  studio  to  the  sculpture.  He  intended  to  add  the  triangular  piece  to  the  work.  He  put  on  the  gauntlets  and  the  welding  helmet,  the  mask  cocked  up  on  his  head,  and  scratched  the  igniter  in  front  of  the  torch's  nozzle.  A  bright  white  flame  appeared  with  a  puck  and  a  hiss  of  gas,  and  his  father focussed  the  flame  down  to  a  clean  blue  point.  Craig  nodded  sharply,  and  the  mask  fell  over  his  face.  Randy  tried  to  guess  where  the  piece  would  fit,  but  he  could  make  no  sense  of  the  sculpture;  it  had  no  shape,  no  expression,  no  story.  He  dared  not  ask  for  a  title  or  an  explanation.  His  father  would  announce  the  piece's  completion  by  ceasing  to  work  on  it.  He  would  simply  begin  something  new;  or,  rather,  he  would  tear  down  something  from  the  tangle  at  the  back  of  the  garage  and  usethe  components  in  some  new  form.  After  ten  minutes  of  work,  hisfa-  ther  stepped  back,  raising  the  mask.  His  face  was  smudged  and  wet.  As  he  and  Randy  watched,  the  weld  that  held  the  triangular  piece  to  the  sculp-  ture  began  to  fail,  and  slowly  the  weight  of  the  metal  tore  it  loose  until  it  fell  with  a  clang  on  the  studio  floor.  &quot;Shit,&quot;  his  father  said.  And  soon  after  he  asked  his  son  to  go  back  into  the  house. WHAT  happened  to  your  hand?&quot;  &quot;I  burned  it.&quot;  &quot;That's  quite  a  bandage  for  a  burn.&quot;  &quot;I  burned  it  with  an  acetylene  torch.&quot;  The  ambulance  driver  glanced  over  at  Craig,  wondering  if  he  was  being  dramatic.  The  paramedics  had  been  in  touch  with  the  hospital  about  Randy's  condi-  tion,  but  they  kept  their  voices  down.  Out  of  deference  to  me,  Craig  thought  -an  assumption  that  terrified  him.  If  the  boy  was  going  to  survive,  wouldn't  they  announce  that  fact  proudly  to  the  father?  It  made  sense  to  Craig.  But  the  paramedics  communicated  in  murmurs  and  the  ambulance  travelled  with  no  " b"undue  speed,  as  if  the  outcome  had  been  decided.  The  Lubbers  Hospital  was  on  a  bluff  above  the  river,  with  a  circular  drive  in  front  of  the  emergency-  room  entrance.  Two  men  and  two  women  stood  in  the  cold  waiting  for  the  ambulance.  They  watched  its  progress  up  the  drive,  and  when  the  ambulance  braked  in  the  orange  light  they  leaped  to  work,  all  eight  hands  grabbing  for  the  doors;  there  was  a  chaotic  bumping  of  his  son's  body  as  they  extract-  ed  the  gurney.  All  of  them  had  disappeared  by  the  time  Craig  got  out.  He  went  into  the  anteroom  and  they  weren't  there.  Waiting  peopleblinked  in  his  direc-  tion.  He  put  his  face  to  a  narrow  window  in  one  E.R.  door  and  saw  them  all,  plus  a  few  new  people,  bunched  around  Randy  like  a  family  at  dinner.  He  wanted  to  get  a  look  at  his  son's  face,  but  that  was  the  focus  of  attention  in  the  room  and  most  of  the  medical  personnel  were  clustered  there,  blocking  his  view.  He  was  amazed  that  he  remem-  bered  almost  nothing  of  the  hospital,  although  he  had  been  there  the  night  before.  A  man  in  a  Red  Sox  cap  was  us-  ing  the  waiting  room's  only  working  pay  phone.  Craig  thought  the  inten-  sity  of  his  longing  to  get  in  touch  with  Francie  would  be  transmitted  to  the  man,  persuading  him  to  hang  up,  but  Craig  stood  within  a  yard  of  the  man's  broad  back  for  nearly  fifteen  min-  utes  thinking  black  and  dangerous  thoughts,  and  still  the  man  gabbed  on.  He  went  to  a  vending  machine  and  bought  a  cup  of  coffee,  black.  The  challenges  of  having  one  good  hand  had  worn  thin  for  him:  he  was  in  pain.  He  carried  the  coffee  by  his  fingertips  back  to  the  E.R.  window  and  peered  inside.  Everyone  was  gone:  doctors,  nurses,  his  son.  He  pushed  the  door  far  enough  open  toinsert  his  head,  and  a  nurse  at  a  table  hidden  to  him  from  outside  asked  him  firmly  to  remain  in  the  waiting  room.  He  asked  about  Randy  Brennan,  and  she  promised  to  have  the  doctor  speak  to  him  when   there  was  useful  information  to  im-  part.  When  the  coffee  had  cooled  enough  to  hold  in  his  palm,  he  approached  the  man  on  the  phone.  &quot;I'll  give  you  this  coffee  if  I  can  use  the  phone,&quot;  he  said.  The  man  looked  with  some  impa-  tience  at  Craig  and  covered  the  mouthpiece  with  his  hand,  as  though  the  other  party  had  sensibilities  too  fragile  to  overhear  the  exchange  to  come.  &quot;I'mon  the  phone,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  need  to  reach  my  wife.  My  son's  been  hurt.&quot;  The  man  tipped  back  his  Red  Sox  cap  and  looked  into  the  coffee  cup.  You  already  drank  some.  I  saw  you.&quot;  &quot;No,  it  was  too  hot.  I  haven't  touched  it.&quot;  &quot;I  take  [REDACTED];  &quot;Let  me  buy  you  a  cup,&quot;  Craig  said.  He  put  the  coffee  down  on  a  bench  and  searched  in  his  pocket  for  some  change.  &quot;This  call  is  important,&quot;  the  man  said.  &quot;My  [REDACTED]  just  had  a  baby.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Congratulations.  I'll  buy  you  cof-  fee  with  cream,&quot;  Craig  said,  &quot;and  I'll  pay  for  you  to  call  back  whoever  you're  talking  to.&quot;  The  man  huhg  up  without  a  word  of  explanation  to  the  other  party,  and  Craig  stacked  change  in  his  hand.  Francie  was  not  at  home.  Glynnis  answered,  sounding  young,  and  ner-  vous  aboutbeing  alone  in  a  dark  house  always  threatening  to  tip  over.  &quot;Where  are  you?&quot;  she  asked  with  a  pout  in  her  voice.  &quot;I'm  at  work,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Where's  Mom?&quot;  &quot;Volleyball  practice.  Are  you  at  the  Sundial?&quot;  &quot;Yeah.  Have  you  talked  to  Mom?&quot;  &quot;I  looked  in  there  for  you  and  they  told  me  you  had  left.&quot;  &quot;I  went  out.  But  now  I'm  back.&quot;  &quot;Can  I  come  down  and  sit  with  you  until  Mom  gets  home?&quot;  &quot;I'm  working,  honey.  It's  not  a  place  for  you.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  like  being  alone,&quot;  Glynnis  said.  &quot;It's  dark  in  all  the  rooms.&quot;  &quot;You  know  how  to  turn  on  the  lights,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Make  yourself  some  cocoa  and  turn  on  the  TV.  Mom'll  be  home  before  you  know  it.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  want  her  to  call  you&quot;&quot;  &quot;Read  me  the  gym-office  number  there,&quot;  he  asked.  His  daughter  was  quiet  as  she  searched  the  sheet  of  numbers  taped  to  " b"the  wall  beside  the  phone.  He  hated  the  idea  of  her  in  the  bar.  She  was  eleven  years  old,  turning  pretty  to  a  degree  that  startled  him  when  he  came  upon  her  unexpectedly.  The  idea  of  that  in-  nocent  beauty  looking  for  him  in  the  clamor  of  the  Sundial  left  him  feeling  helpless-the  thought  of  her  wander-  ing  there  without  his  protection.  She  read  him  the  number;  he  held  it  in  his  memory,  then  hastened  to  end  the  conversation  before  he  forgot  it.  He  put  in  his  money  and  dialled  the  P.E.  office  number.  A  woman-z  stranger-answered,  and  when  he  stressed  that  it  was  an  emergency  she  agreed  to  interrupt  Francie  in  gym  class.  He  tried  to  imagine  the  office;  he  had  never  been  there.  More  clearly,  he  saw  his  wife  turning  pale  at  the  men-  tion  of  an  emergency,  saw  her  running  toward  the  phone.  She  was  a  quick,  graceful  runner,  and  it  would  not  take  her  long  to  get  there.  FRANCIE  had  Glynnis  with  her  when  she  arrived  at  the  hospital,  and  Glynnis  was  carrying  abook.First  thing,  she  went  to  her  father.  &quot;You  lied  to  me,&quot;  she  said  coldly.  With  that  she  reassumed  her  pose,  her  very  seat,  from  the  night  before,  head  bowed,  the  book  open  in  her  lap.  Francie  had  a  great  many  questions,  but  Craig  had  few  answers.  His  lack  of  knowledge  about  what  had  happened,  what  condition  their  son  was  in,  fi-  nally  wore  her  down  and  she  just  sat  playing  with  her  rings  and  watching  the  door  to  the  emergency  room.  Craig  keptseeing  vaguely  familiar  faces,  men  and  women  in  pale-green  clothes  who  had  briefly  come  into  the  circle  of  his  awareness  in  the  past.  Several  smiled  at  him  as  if  they  had  seen  him  somewhere  but  couldn't  place  him.  None  of  them  stopped  to  provide  word  about  their  son.  &quot;Go  look  again,&quot;  Francie  said.  The  first  two  dozen  times  he  had  gone  to  look,  Glynnis  accompanied  him,  standing  on  tiptoe  to  see  through  the  glass.  But  an  hourago  she  had  fallen  asleep  and  collapsed  with  her  head  in  her  mother's  lap.  Craig  went  to  the  window  in  the  E.R.  door  and  looked  through  it.  Francie  seemed  to  have  some  hope  that  he  would  see  Randy  in  there,  sitting  up  in  bed  telling  jokes  to  the  nurses.  This  time,  as  before,  he  saw  no  one  resembling  his  son.  In  time,  the  waiting  room  emptied  to  the  point  where  they  felt  comfort-  able  arranging  Glynnis  in  a  limp,  sleeping  line  along  one  couch.  Francie  stretched  out  on  a  couch  perpendicular  to  Glynnis's  and  stroked  her  daugh-  ter's  hair.  Craig  stayed  in  a  chair  with  his  coffee,  and  that  was  where  the  doc-  tor  found  them.  Oddly,  he  first  asked  about  Craig's  hand.  He  then  spoke  inclipped  phrases  that  Craig  and  Francie  could  not  re-  call  precisely  afterward.  But  the  infor-  mation  was  conveyed  that  Randy  had  a  crack  in  his  skull  and  a  concussion,  that  his  eyes  were  reactive  to  light,  that  the  impact  of  the  car's  tire  against  his  head  had  been  oblique  and  had  been  cushioned  by  leaves  and  an  out-  thrown  hand.  Francie  left  with  Glynnis  in  time  for  the  girl  to  get  home  and  ready  for  school,  after  which  Francie  would  return  to  the  hospital.  But  she  had  not  yet  returned  when  Craig  was  al-  lowed  into  see  Randy.  The  boy's  head  was  wrapped  in  white,  and  there  was  an  abrasion  like  a  skid  mark  running  from  the  bottom  of  his  cheek  up  under  the  edge  of  the  dressing.  He  hadan  L-shaped  cast  on  his  arm.  He  opened  his  eyes  once,  but  Craig  was  looking  away  at  that  moment  and  didn't  see.  E  stretched  out  in  the  leaves  and  kept  watch  over  his  father-this  on  the  day  beforethe  leaf  pickup  be-  gan.  He  was  worried  where  he  would  hide  when  the  leaves  were  gone.  The  weather  that  day  had  been  overcast  early,  with  an  afternoon  burst  of  sun-  light  that  threw  shadows  into  the  mix  of  colors  where  he  hid.  People  walked  past,  within  a  few  feet  of  him,  and  didn't  see  him.  The  road  hummed  when  cars  went  past,  and  he  was  posi-  tive  the  people  in  those  cars  didn't  see  him,  either. "