 b"ALL  of  my  books,  including  Wag-  ons  Westward&quot;,  Hiiiii-  yaw!  and  Ck-ck  Giddup  Beauty!  C'mon  Big  Girl,  Awaaaaayy!  andPal  Look  Out!  It'  s-Aimieee!,  have  been  difficult  for  my  readers,  I  guess,  judg-  ing  from  their  reactions  when  they  see  me  shopping  at  Val-Mar  or  sitting  in  the  Quad  County  Library  &amp;  Media  Center.  After  a  rough  morning  at  the  keyboard,  I  sort  of  like  to  slip  into  my  black  leather  vest,  big  white  hat,  and  red  kerchief,  same  as  in  the  book-  jacket  photos,  and  saunter  up  and  down  the  aisle  by  the  fruit  and  other  perishable  items  and  let  my  fans  have  the  thrill  of  running  into  me,  and  if  nobody  does  I  park  myself  at  a  table  dead  smack  in  front  of  the  Western-  adventure  shelf  in  Quad  County's  fic-  tion  department,  lean  back,  plant  my  big  boots  on  the  table,  and  prepare  to  endure  the  terrible  price  of  celebrity,  but  it's  not  uncommon  for  a  reader  to  come  by,  glance  down,  and  say,  &quot;Aren't  you  Dusty  Pages,  the  author  of  Ck-ck  Giddup  Beauty!  C'mon  Big  Girl,  Awaaaaayy!&quot;  and  when  I  look  down  and  blush  and  say,  &quot;Well,  yes,  Ma'am,  I  reckon  I  am  him,&quot;  she  says,  &quot;I  thought  so.  You  look  just  like  him.&quot;  'Then  an  awful  silence  while  she  studies  the  shelf  and  selects  Ray  A.  James,  Jr.,  or  Chuck  Young  or  an-  other  of  my  rivals.  It's  a  painful  mo-  ment  for  an  author,  the  reader  two  feet  away  and  moments  passing  during  which  shedoes  not  say,  &quot;Your  books  have  meant  so  much  to  me,&quot;  or  &quot;I  can't  tell  you  how  much  I  admireyour  work.&quot;  She  just  reaches  past  the  au-  thor  like  he  was  asack  ofpotatoes  and  chooses  a  book  by  somebody  else.  Same  thing  happens  with  men.  They  say,  &quot;You're  an  author,  aren'tcha'?'  I  read  a  book  of  yours  once,  what  was  the  name  of  it?&quot;  I  try  to  be  helpful.  &quot;Could  it  have  been  Wagons  Westward!!!  Hii-\xc2\xa5aw!&quot;  &quot;No,  it  had  someone's  name  in  the  title.&quot;  &quot;Well,  I  wrote  a  book  entitled  Pe!  Look  Out!  It  s-Aiiiieee!&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cNo,  I  think  it  had  the  name  of  a  horse.&quot;  &quot;Could  it  have  been  Giddup  Beauty!  C'mon  Big  Girl,  Awaaaaayy\xe2\x80\x99  a  &quot;That's  the  one.  Did  you  write  that?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  sir,  I  did.&quot;  &quot;Huh.  I  thought  so.&quot;  And  right  there  you  brace  yourself  for  him  to  say,  &quot;Y'know,  I  never  was  one  for  books  and  then  my  brother  gave  me  yours  for  Christmas  and  I  said,  'Naw,  I  don't  read  books,  Craig,  you  know  that,'  and  he  said,  'But  this  is  different,  Jim  Earl,  read  this,  this  isn't  the  girls'  literature  they  stuffed  down  our  throats  in  high  school,  this  is  the  real  potatoes,&quot;  so  I  read  it  and  by  George  I  couldn't  put  the  sucker  down,  I  ran  out  and  did  the  chores  and  tore  out  and  back  in  the  pickup  to  check  on  those  dogies  and  I  read  for  two  days  and  two  nights  without  a  minute  of  shuteye.  Your  book  changed  my  life,  Mister.  I'm  glad  I  got  a  chance  to  tell  you  that.  You  cleared  up  a  bunch  of  stuff  that  has  bothered  me  for  years-you  took  something  that  had  been  inside  me  and  you  put  it  into  words  so  I  could  feel,  I  donno,  not  so  weird,  feel  sorta  like  understood,  y'might  say.  That  was  me  you  put  in  that  book  of  yours,  Mister.  That  was  my  life  you  wrote  about  there,  and  I  want  to  say  thanks.  Just  remember,  anytime  you're  ever  in  Big  Junction,  Wyomlng,  you  got  a  friend  there  name  o'  Jim  Earl  Wilcox&quot;-but  in-  stead  he  says,  &quot;You  wouldn'  know  where  the  little  boys'  room  is,  wouldja?,&quot;  as  if  I  were  a  library  em-  ployee  and  not  a  book  author.  So  it's  clear  to  me  that  when  people  read  my  books  they  like  me  a  little  less  at  the  end  than  at  the  beginning.  My  fourth  book,  Com-  pany  A,  Chaaaaaaarge!,  is  evidently  theworst.  Nobody  bought  it  at  all.  I  know  what  it's  like  to  be  disappointed  by  a  hero.  You  think  I  don't  know?  Believe  me,  I  know.  I  met  my  idol,  Smokey  W.  Kaiser,  when  I  was  twelve.  1d  read  every  one  of  his  books  twice-the  Curly  Bob  and  Lefty  Slim  series,  the  Lazy  A  Gang  series,  the  Powder  River  Hank  series-and  I  had  waited  outside  the  Y.M.C.A.  in  Des  Moines  for  three  hours  whilehe  regaled  the  Rotary  with  humorous  anecdote,  and  when  he  emerged  at  the  side  door,  a  fat  man  in  tight  " b"green  pants  tucked  into  silver-studded  boots,  he  looked  down  and  growled,  &quot;I  don't  sign  pieces  of  paper,  kid.  I  sign  books.  No  paper.  You  want  my  auto-  graph,  you  can  buy  a  book.  That's  a  ruleof  mine.  Don't  waste  my  time  and  I  won't  waste  yours.&quot;  MoOKEY's  problem  was  that  he  was  a  jerk,  but  mine  is  that  I  get  half-  way  through  a  story  and  everything  goes  to  pieces.  In  Wagons  Westward!!!  Hiiiii-YAW!  the  pioneers  reach  Council  Bluffs,  having  endured  two  hundred  solid  pages  of  Indian  attacks,  small-  pox,  cattle  stampedes,  thirst,  terror,  bitter  backbiting,  scattered  atheism,  and  adulterous  inclinations,  and  then  they  sit  on  the  bluffs  and  have  a  meet-  ing  to  decide  whether  they  really  want  to  forge  onward  to  [REDACTED]  or  whether  maybe  they  should  head  southeast  to-  ward  St.  Louis  or  Quincy  instead.  Buck  Bradley,  the  tall,  taciturn,  sandy-haired,  God-fearing  manwho  led  them  through  the  rough  stuff,  stands  up  and  says,  &quot;Well,  it's  up  to  the  rest  of  you.  Makes  no  nevermind  to  yours  truly,  I  could  go  either  way  and  be  happy-west,  south,  you  name  it.  I  don't  need  to  go  west  or  any-  thing.  You  choose.  I'll  go  along  with  whatever.&quot;  I  don't  know.  I  wrote  that  scene  the  way  I  heard  it  in  my  head  but  now  I  see  it  in  print,  it  looks  dumb.  I  can  certainly  see  why  it  would  throw  a  reader,  same  asin  Giddup  Beauty!  C'mon  Big  Girl,  Awaacaayy!,  when  Buck  rides  two  thousand  miles  across  blazing  deserts  searching  for  Julie  Ann  and  finally,  after  killing  twenty  men  and  wearing  out  three  mounts  and  surviving  two  avalanches,  a  prai-  rie  fire,  a  blizzard,  and  a  passel  of  varmints,  he  finds  her  held  captive  by  the  bloodthirsty  Arapaho.  &quot;So,  how  are  you  doing?&quot;  he  asks  her.  &quot;Oh,  all  right,I  guess,&quot;  she  says,  gazing  up  at  him,  wiping  the  sweat  from  her  brow.  &quot;You  want  to  come  in  for  a  cup  of  coffee?&quot;  &quot;Naw,  Ijust  wanted  to  make  sure  you  were  O.K.  You  look  O.K.&quot;  &quot;Yeah,  I  lost  some  weight,  about  twenty  pounds.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  really.  How?&quot;  &quot;Eating  toads  and  grasshoppers.&quot;  &quot;Uh-huh.  Well,  now  that  I  look  at  you,  youdo  look  lighter.&quot;  &quot;Sure  you  won't  have  coffee?&quot;  &quot;Naw,  I  gotta  ride.  Be  seein'  ya,  now.&quot;  &quot;O.K.,  bye!&quot;  To  me  it  seemed  more  realistic  that  way,  but  maybe  to  the  guy  reader  it  sounded  sort  of  unfocussed  or  some-  thing.  I  don't  know.  Guys  have  al-  ways  been  a  tough  audience  for  me.  The  other  day  a  guy  grabbed  my  arm in  the  Quad  County  and  said,  &quot;Hey,  Dusty!  Dusty  Pages!  That  right?  Am  I  right  or  am  I  right?&quot;  &quot;Both,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Mister,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;your  book  saved  my  life.  My  brother  gave  it  to  me  and  said,  'Buck,  read  this  sometime  when  you're  sober,&quot;  and  I  put  it  in  my  pocket  and  didn't  think  about  it  un-  til,  October,  I  was  elk  hunting  up  in  the  Big  Coulee  country,  other  side  of  the  Little  Crazy  River,  and  suddenly  wham  it  felt  like  somebody  swung  a  bat  and  hit  me  in  the  chest.  I  fell  over  and  lay  there  and,  doggone  it,  I  felt  around  and  didn't  find  blood-I  go  Huh???????&quot;  Well,  it  was  your  book  in  my  jacket  pocket  saved  my  life-  bullet  tore  through  the  first  half  of  it,  stopping  at  page  143.  So,  by  Jim,  I  thought,  'This  is  too  crazy,  I  got  to  read  this,'  and  I  started  to  read  and  I  couldn't  believe  it.  That  was  me  in  the  book-my  life,  my  thoughts,  it  was  weird.  Names,  dates,  places-it  was  my  life  down  to  the  last  detail,  except  for  the  beer.  I  don't  drink  Coors.  The  rest  you  got  right.  Here.&quot;  And  he  slipped  an  envelope  into  my  hand.  &quot;This  is  for  you,&quot;he  said.  It  was  a  subpoena  to  appear  in  [REDACTED]  District  Court  the  twenty-seventh  of  November  to  defend  myself  in  a  civil  suit.  I  appeared  and  I  tried  to  defend,  but  I  lost.  My  attorney,  a  very,  very  nice  man  named  Howard  Furst,  was  simply  outgunned  by  three  tall  ferret-  faced  men  in  black  pinstripes  who  flew  in  from  [REDACTED]  and  tore  him  limb  from  limb  in  two  and  a  half  hours  of  legal  bushwhacking.  They  and  their  client,  Buck  Bradley,  toted  away  three  saddlebags  full  of  my  bank  account,  leaving  me  with  nothing  except  this  latest  book.  It's  the  first  in  a  new  se-  ries,  the  Lonesome  Bud  series,  called  The  Case  of  the  Black  Mesa,  and  it  begins  with  a  snake  biting  Bud  in  the  wrist  as  he  hangs  from  a  cliff  while  Navajo  shoot  flaming  arrows  at  him  from  below  and  a  torrent  of  sharp  gravel  showers  down  on  his  old  bald  head.  From  there  to  the  end,  it  never  lets  up,  except  maybe  in  Chapter  4,  where  he  and  the  boys  shop  for  bunk  beds.  I  don't  know  what  I  had  in  mind  there  at  all. "