 b"ON  January  10,  1941,  at  Pied-  O  mont  Hospital  in  [REDACTED],  my  mother  wrote  in  the  space  for  my  first  name  on  my  birth  certificate:  &quot;Annabelle.&quot;  She  was  from  Philly,  but  went  down  [REDACTED]  with  my  father  when  the  Army  assigned  him  to  Fort  McPherson,  and  she  must  have  gotten  carried  away.  When  she  snapped  out  of  it,  she  renamed  me  for  her  older  sis-  ter,  Vera.  My  baby  book,  bound  in  pink  cloth,  &quot;Our  Baby's  First  Seven  Years,&quot;  was  a  present  from  Aunt  Vera,  and  still  has  her  congratulations  card  pasted  in  it:  May  life  bring  EVERY  joy  to  bless  That  tiny  &quot;dream  of  HAPPINESS!&quot;  The  book  has  a  page  for  Baby's  First  Gifts,  and  my  mother  filled  it  in  with  her  neat  secretarial-school  penman-  ship:  &quot;Bathinette-Granma.  Toys-  Granpa.  Bunting-Aunt  Vera.  White  wool  shawl-Aunt  Laura.  Gold  cross  and  chain-Ondine  and  Charlie  O'Donnell.  Baby  hot  water  bottle-  Mary  [REDACTED]  Stealey.  Gold  heart  necklace-[REDACTED]  Q.M.  Depot  gang.  Silver  orange  juice  cup-Daddy.  Sweater,  cap,  and  bootiee-Mr.  and  Mrs.  King  (grocer).  Piggie  bank-  Aunt  Thelma.&quot;  On  the  page  for  Fa-  vorite  Toys,  my  mother  wrote,  &quot;Hor-  ace  the  Horse&quot;  (a  red  stuffed  horse  with  a  white  string  mane).  &quot;At  eleven  months,  Ronnie  'loved'  it  and  sat  on  it.&quot;  (I  was  nicknamed  Ronnie  so  Aunt  Vera  wouldn't  have  to  be  Big  Vera.)  When  &quot;Our  Baby's  First  Seven  Years&quot;  was  full-when  seven  years'  worth  of  physical  development,  food  preferences,  vocabulary  growth,  trips,  and  names  of  playmates  had  been  duly  organized,  recorded,  and  put  away-  my  life  was  on  the  brink  of  shapeless-  ness,  bereft  of  a  unifying  principle,  vulnerable  to  any  dangerous  pattern  that  might  come  along  and  attach  it-  self  to  my  future  in  seven-year  cycles  of  bad  luck  or  a  seventy-seven-year  evil  spell.  But  on  that  very  day,  my  seventh  birthday,  January  10,  1948,  someone  I  would  meet  thirty-five  years  later,  a  friend  of  mine  named  Donald,  was  born.  This  turn  of  fortune  took place  in  a  postwar  New  Jersey  suburb,  or  maybe  it  was  [REDACTED].  His  parents  must  have  named  him  after  the  Holly-  wood  song-and-dance  man  Donald  O'Connor,  who  had  been  doing  a  se-  ries  of  low-budget  Universal  musicals  as  the  juvenile  lead  opposite  such     COMMON  starlets  as  Ann  Blyth  and  was  destined  to  make  the  Francis  the  Talking  Mule  movies.  Back  in  Philly,  I  celebrated  many  January  10ths  with  my  best  friend,  Marie,  whose  parents  owned  a  greet-  ing-card  shop.  (After  school,  I'd  help  her  put  price  tags  on  the  cards  with  tiny  oval  clips,  making  fun  of  the  verses-&quot;May  life  bring  EVERY  joy  to  bless&quot;  -and  then  we'd  go  sit  on  a  park  bench  and  draw  pictures  of  women  wearing  spike  heels  and  those  seamed  stockings  with  squared-off  reinforce-  ments  up  the  backs  of  the  ankles.)  One  birthday  she  gave  me  a  record  album  of  fairy  tales  read  by  some  actor;  and  whenever  we  listened  to  &quot;Sleeping  Beauty,&quot;  as  the  Prince  approached  the  briar  hedge  that  had  grown  higher  and  higher  till  it  covered  the  castle  where  lay  the  Princess  in  her  hundred-  year  sleep,  Marie  would  stop  the  record  and  intone,  &quot;He  came  to  the  edge  of  an  impen-,  an  impen-,  an  impen-,  an  impenetrable  forest.&quot;  On  January  10,  1949,  after  Don-  ald's  first  birthday  party,  a  gathering  of  relatives  at  home,  wherever  that  was,  he  fell  asleep  on  the  sofa;  and  as  his  mother  carried  him  to  his  crib,  tucked  him  in,  and  kissed  his  toys  good  night,  he  half  woke  to  the  rustling  of  her  full-skirted  cocktail  dress  of  changeable  taffeta,  a  popular  fabric  of  the  period,  shimmering  black  green  black  green  black  green  black  in  a  sensuous  poetry  of  flux  which  made  a  lifelong  impression  on  him.  I  don't  know  how  I  know  this,  but  in  that  moment  he  internalized  a  blissful,  bamboozling  mockery  of  his  own  in-  tellectual  rigor.  When  he  turned  five  -January  10,  1953-his  kindergar-  ten  teacher  had  him  sent  to  a  nearby  college  or  university  for  [REDACTED]  testing,  a  fad  of  the  era.  Little  Donnie  was  seated  in  front  ofa  board  with  differ-  ent  geometric-shaped  holes  in  it,  given  a  selection  of  geometric  blocks,  and  told  to  fit  each  block  in  the  correct  hole.  &quot;You  must  be  joking,&quot;  he  said,  as  with  a  sweep  of  one  small  hand  he  sent  the  blocks  flying.  Bobby  Fischer  used  to  say  things  like  &quot;Crash!&quot;  and  &quot;Ka-boom!&quot;  when  he  captured  pieces.  At  fourteen,  he  won  the  [REDACTED]  Chess  Championship-  on  January  7,  1958,  just  three  days  before  my  seventeenth  birthday.  He  was  a  mysterious  intimate-a  peer  I  knew  of  but  didn't  know.  A  better  me,  out  there  untouchable.  Hazel-eyed  Bobby,  however,  was  not  the  one  whose  passage  would  intersect  with  mine.  He  had  beenborn  on  March  9th  (or,  according  to  one  source,  12th),  on  a  life  path  to  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  &quot;I've  Got  a  Secret,&quot;  Mar  del  Plata,  [REDACTED],  43756261  by  telex,  [REDACTED],  Spassky,  silence.  Not  even  close.  On  January  10,  1963,  Donald's  fif-  teenth  birthday,  his  parents  gave  him  a  Raleigh  English  bike.  He  made  his  preferred  sandwiches  (peanut  butter  and  marshmallow  fluff),  lashed  his  collection  of  45s  to  the  bike  rack,  and  left  home,  cycling  due  west  through  [REDACTED].  Near  the  Maumee  River  in  northwest  [REDACTED],  on  the  out-  skirts  of  Defiance,  with  714  miles  on  the  odometer,  he  finally  realized  that  being  a  ward  of  the  state  wasn't  all  it  was  cracked  up  to  be,  and  retraced  his  route.  (I'm  sure  this  is  right  about  the  714,  because  it  was  also  Joe  Friday's  badge  number.)  That  year,  I  was  just  out  of  the  University  of  [REDACTED]  and  living  in  New  York  for  the  first  time.  My  younger  brother,  Steve,  was  studying  bad-younger-brother  behavior,  hang-  ing  around  the  city  and  getting  in  trouble.  On  my  birthday  we  went  to  the  Five  Spot  and  heard  Roland  Kirk  play  weird  instruments  he'd  invented  and  named-stritch  and  manzello.  I  don't  want  to  name  the  deep  trouble  my  brother  got  into  around  that  time;  it  scared  me,  and  one  night  I  refused  to  let  him  stay  in  my  apartment  even  though  it  was  raining.  I  still  think  about  this,  although  he  forgave  me  and  later  a  psychiatrist  told  me  science  couldn't  say  what  I  should  have  done.  Donald  spent  his  twentieth  birthday  -January  10,  1968-buying  a  mat-  " b"tress  for  his  first  New  York  pad.  He  was  carrying  it  back  from  Dixie  Foam,  balanced  on  his  head,  when  he  heard  rolling  thunder.  The  hard  rain  that  had  been  predicted  for  five  years  began  to  fall,  saturating  the  foam  and  turning  it  into  a  giant,  burdensome,  oppressive  household  sponge.  He  be-  came  a  feminist.  I  don't  remember  much  about  my  birthdays  through  the  nineteen-seven-  ties,  but  probably  they  had  something  to  do  with  sex.  By  Donald's  twenty-sixth  birthday  -January  10,  1974-he  had  wan-  dered  out  to  L.A.  Some  girlfriend  called  him  that  afternoon  and  asked  him  to  meet  her  in  fitting  room  No.  7  in  the  lingerie  department  at  Bul-  lock's,  in  Westwood.  When  he  pulled  the  curtain,  he  found  her  in  there  wearing  nothing  buta  lacy  black  gar-  ter  belt,  mesh  stockings,  spike  heels,  and  an  apron,  bending  over  achafing  dish  and  a  lighted  can  of  Sterno,  mak-  ing  his  favorite  dessert,  cr\xc3\xa9pes  with  Clementine-orange  sections  and  Coin-  treau  flemb\xc3\xa9s:  mother,  sister,  hostess,  lover.  ...  Bullock's  pressed  charges.  Neither  Donald  nor  the  girlfriend  served  any  time,  but  the  store's  inhos-  pitality  so  aroused  his  anti-bureau-  cratic  temperament  that  he  stopped  feeling  guilty  about  frittering  away  his  life  at  the  track.  At  [REDACTED]  Anita,  where  he  went  most  mornings,  the  trainers  and  stablehands  welcomed  his  presence  around  the  stalls,  for  he  had  a  way  with  the  horses.  His  magic  was  to  call  them  by  names  he  made  up  instead  of  the  monikers  laid  on  them  by  the  own-  ers.  One  day,  after  Donald  had  made  his  usual  pre-race  visit  to  the  pad-  dock,  a  magnificent  chestnut  stallion  who  had  not  lived  up  to  his  poten-  tial  (neither  would  I  if  I  were  on  the  books  as  Can't  Get  Arrested),  having  heard  for  the  first  time  what  he  must  have  felt  all  along  was  his  true  name,  went  out  smoking,  sprint-  ed  clear  along  the  inside,  was  in  full  flight  at  midstretch,  and  crossed  the  wire  with  something  left-win-  ner  by  six  lengths  in  the  Nature  vs.  Nurture  Futurity.  This,  of  course,  was  the  famed  champion,  hence-  forth  known  unofficially  as  Impene-  trable.  Once  a  few  stories  like  that  got  around,  Donald's  services  were  widely  sought  for  consultations  and  christenings.  Among  his  successes  over  the  next  decade  were  High  [REDACTED],  the  semi-retired  fourteen-year-old  he  nicknamed  High  Heels  to  inspire  her  stunning  comeback  in  the  1975  Bobby  Fischer  Memorial  Sweepstakes;  1976's  Dixie  Derby  sensation,  Marie,  a  big  bay  mare  who  had  suffered  from  an  aging  crisis  until  Donald  tactfully  called  her  Philly;  Changeable  Taffeta  (the  first  thoroughbred  yearling  he  was  hired  to  name),  who  in  1977  swept  the  Cross  and  Chain  Handicap  and  the  Silver  Orange  Juice  Cup;  Booties,  who  won  in  a  waltz  after  crashing  the  1979  Dragnet  Invita-  tional;  Stritch  and  Manzello,  the  sib-  lings  who  took  win  and  place  for  a  combined  purse  of  $850,000  in  the  1981  Sterno  Hospitality  Classic;  and  the  40-1  long  shot  who  captured  the  1982  Piggie  Bank  Stakes,  the  amazing  Just  a  Coincidence.  On  Donald's  thirty-fifth  birthday-  January  10,  1983-his  secretary  made  a  list,  for  thank-you  notes,  of  the  presents  he  got  (and  I  believe  these  touched  his  heart  more  than  the  huge  fees  he  commanded):  white  cashmere  saddle  blanket-Calumet  Farm;  gold  I.D.  bracelet-Mom  and  Dad;  silk-  covered  hot-water  bottle  in  black  and  green  stripes,  racing  colors  of  Grimm  Stables-Grimm  brothers;  silver  horse-insignia  roach  clip-Chet  (groom,  Pimlico);  greeting  card  with  verse  (&quot;May  life  bring  EVERY  joy  to  bless  /  Ese  pequefiito  suefio  de  FELI-  CIDAD!\xc2\xae&quot;)-Angel  Cordero.  JANUARY  10,  1988,  was  my  forty-  seventh  birthday,  Donald's  forti-  eth.  Some  years  ago  he  had  wan-  dered  back  East,  to  New  York,  and  made  his  home  here,  and  we'd  met  through  my  boyfriend,  Jimmy,  a  pho-  tographer  who  had  taken  his  picture.  When  we  first  found  out  we  had  the  same  birthday,  we  didn't  make  a  big  deal  out  of  it,  but  as  we  became  friends  it  seemed  more  and  more  signi-  ficant.  This  year,  we  discussed  offer-  ing  ourselves  for  a  new  kind  of  study  by  those  people  in  [REDACTED]  who  studied  twins.  Our  hypothesis  was  that  the  many  similarities  in  our  lives  formed  a  pattern;  that  discovering  the  pattern  made  us  feel  happy;  and  that  our  case  might  provide  valuable  data  for  investigating  the  phenomenon  of  friends  reared  apart.  But  we  were  afraid  of  being  rebuffed  as  astrology  cranks,  or  as  frauds  who  had  subjec-  tively  distorted  the  truth  out  of  pure  longing  to  have  a  lot  in  common.  So,  with  a  sweep  of  his  hand  and  mine,  we  sent  the  scientific  method  flying,  and  threw  a  party.      "