 b"22  A  LAZOFSKY  Apri.  1278:  TAKE  Ma  out  of  the  Home  for  the  day.  She's  wearing  a  hat  with  a  wide  brim  and  a  gauze  veil  to  protect  her  skin  from  the  sun.  We  are  dressed  up-1I  am  in  a  striped  summer  suit  with  a  shirt  and  tie-and  Ma  walks  to  my  car  in  full  step,  highly  motivated.  We  are  going  to  visit  my  brother  Ronald,  in  Teaneck.  Ronald  finds  Ma  doesn't  communi-  cate  well  anymore.  His  wife,  Doris,  says,  &quot;Let's  face  it-Ma  isn't  getting  any  younger.&quot;  Ma  is  eighty-nine.  She  sits  quietly  for  a  minute,  then  asks  if  we  remember  Harold  Tanney.  We  re-  member  the  name-the  son  of  a  friend  of  Ma's.  &quot;Harold  Tanney's  wife,  Hortense,&quot;  says  Ma,  &quot;brought  home  her  poor  old  mother,  who  is  ill  and  needs  careful  watching,  so  Harold  Tanney  gave  up  his  place  in  bed  and  sleepsin  the  hall-  way,  while  his  wife,  Hortense,  sleeps  with  her  poor  old  mother.&quot;  &quot;Harold  Tanney  has  to  be  out  of  his  mind,&quot;  says  Doris.  Apri  1778:  a  begs  me,  implores  me,  to  take  her  back  to  her  old  apartment:  &quot;Just  for  a  little  while,  Leon.&quot;  Itryto  convince  her  that  the  old  neighborhood  is  completely  finished,  that  there  isn't  a  sound  brick  in  the  whole  block,  that  there  is  nothing  left  in  her  part  of  the  Bronx  but  rubbish  and  rot.  She  stands  in  the  doorway  of  her  room  waving  goodbye.  I  wave  back.  Distress  passes  over  her  face  something  awful.  May  6tn:  HE  social  worker  tells  me  that  Ma's  been  washing  towels  in  the  toilet  bow!  again.  I  mention  it  to  Ma,  but  she's  not  listening.  She's  thinking  back  to  a  time  fifty  years  ago.  &quot;When  there  was  no  food  in  the  house,  I  made  dowith  the  scrapings  from  the  breadbox  and  we  managed  a  whole  month.  When  vegetables  were  in  season,  I  did  them  up  in  mixtures.  With  chopped  onions,  carrots,  turnips,  and  even  peas  I  could  make  any  kind  of  stew.  We  ate  all  week.&quot;  On  my  way  out  of  Ma's  room,  a  door  opened  along  the  narrow  pas-  sageway  and  a  man  in  a  dressing  gown  imparted  a  message  to  Ma  that  the  menu  at  the  dinner  table  was  gefilte-  fish  appetizer,  barley  soup,  chicken  **     with  potato  pancakes,  and  homemade  honey  cake.  &quot;Just  so  you  shouldn't  leave  the  table  hungry,  Missus.&quot;  May  131:  MA  wears  a  silver-fox  fur  piece  and  a  white  kettle  hat.  We  are  driv-  ing  to  visit  Ronald  and  Doris  again.  Ma's  vitality  is  fantastic  today-abso-  lutely  marvellous.  Doris  has  prepared  a  chicken  dinner,  and  during  the  meal  Ma  is  amused  by  her  own  image  ina  soup  spoon:  &quot;Who  is  that  person,  Leon?&quot;  After  we  eat,  we  go  into  the  living  room  and  I  tell  Ronald  and  Doris  that  Ma  remembers  Slobodka  in  1910and  that  each  time  the  details  get  better.  I  ask  her  to  tell  us  about  her  home  town.  &quot;In  Slobodka  ...  there  were  barn-  yard  noises  ...  roosters  ...  cows  ...  and  sheep.  ...  When  it  rained  ..  .  the  dusty  roads  were  deep  in  mud.  ...  My  family  had  a  small  garden  in  the  back  .  for  vegetables....  On  the  right  ..a  narrow  pathway  led  to  an  old  tower.  ...  In  back  ...to  the  left...  on  the  same  road  ...you  can  get  to  the  wooden  synagogue  ...and  then  ..  the  wooden  houses  .  ..  one  by  one  in  a  crooked  row.  In  the  last  house  lives  a  man,  Lazofsky,  in  his  fifties.  .  Married  with  two  children  ...  Zlota,  a  girl,  twelve  .  ..  and  Ruven,  a  boy  of  eight.  His  wife,  Hannah,  is  five  years  older  than  Lazofsky.&quot;  Doris  yawns.  &quot;Lazofsky?&quot;  she  says.  &quot;What's  a  lazofsky?&quot;  Ma  smiles.  &quot;Hazel,&quot;  she  says,  &quot;I'm  not  so  dumb.  You'd  never  guess  that  I  breast-fed  little  Ronald-and  what  a  fine,  fat,  pink  baby  he  was.&quot;  Ma  is  mixing  up  Doris  again  with  my  brother's  first  wife.  &quot;It's  not  Hazel,&quot;  says  Ronald.  &quot;It's  Doris,  Ma.  Doris.&quot;  I  suggest  to  Ronald  that  Ma  stay  at  his  place  for  a  week  or  two,  thatthe  change  might  do  her  a  great  deal  of  good.  Doris  complains  that  she  doesn't  care  for  a  change.  Ronald  puts  his  feet  up  on  the  table.  He  lets  out  a  deep  sigh.  He  is  wearing  slippers  embroi-dered  with  kittens  running  around  the  sides.  He  sits  there  at  his  ease,  as  his  hi-fi  plays  Handel's  Sarabande.  May  21st:  I  GET  a  phone  call  from  the  Home  that  Ma  is  &quot;sinking.&quot;  I'm  in  tears  as  I  drive  out  there,  thinking  of  Ma  and  theold  days.  When  Iarrive,  she  is  feeling  better  and  walking  around  a  bit.  I  tell  her  that  I  was  singing  &quot;Bar-  ney  Google&quot;  on  my  way  over,  and  she  says,  &quot;Meshugana,  you'rea  scatter-  brain  and  always  was  one.&quot;  JunE  3ro:  MA  enjoys  going  out  to  the  diner  today.  She  doesn't  walk-she  seems  to  gravitate.  Feeding  herhas  become  a  circus  act  of  knife,  fork,  spoon,  open,  chew,  swallow.  People  at  the  other  tables  enjoy  watching;  we  have  become  diner  celebrities.  I  remind  Ma  of  a  famousmeal  from  years  ago:  &quot;Remember  old  Cohn?&quot;  &quot;'That  bandit!&quot;  Ma  had  met  Cohn,  a  widower,  on  a  bench  at  the  Lion  House  in  the  Bronx  Zoo.  A  week  later  he  told  her  that  they  should  get  mar-  ried.  Our  flat  quickly  filled  up  with  widows;  some  came  to  meet  Cohn,  some  to  steal  him  away.  &quot;How  come  you  asked  all  those  women  to  the  house,  Ma?&quot;  I  say.  &quot;When  the  widows  saw  how  much  he  ate,  they  lost  their  appetite  for  him.  He  swallowed  everything.&quot;  Ma  says  she  had  prepared  delicatessen-pas-  trami  and  corned  beef,  young  pickles  stiff  and  springy,  and  a  half-dozen  \xc2\xab*specials.&quot;  Cohn  struck  the  dish  with  his  knife  and  attacked  the  first  &quot;spe-  cial,&quot;  sticking  the  fork  into  it  as  it  quivered,  red  and  pink.  Extending  his  tongue  to  meet  it  halfway,  he  bit  it,  shaking  his  head  and  ripping  at  pieces  of  rye  bread.  Coleslaw  and  potato  salad  with  the  bread,  back  and  forth,  old  Cohn's  eyes  rollinginto  his  head  to  watch  his  swallows  going  down.  .  \xe2\x80\x9cWhat  happened  to  the  marriage,  Map\xe2\x80\x9d  Ma  shrugs.  &quot;Old  Cohn  disappeared  the  same  way  he  came.  Winter  was  over  and  he  was  back  in  the  Bronx  Zoo,  where  he  belonged.&quot;  I  am  astonished  by  Ma's  recall  of  that-  meal.  Junge  101:  THE  way  Ronald  was  lounging  around  when  Ma  and  I  came  in,  I  thought  he  had  forgotten  us.  He  was  " b"sitting  at  the  wide-open  window,  looking  at  the  sky  through  a  telescope.  He  had  a  dazed,  dreamy  expression  and  didn't  like  being  disturbed.  &quot;See  the  stars  in  the  Belt  of  Orion?  They  look  like  they're  heading  over  to  join  the  Seven  Sisters.  You  see,  Leon,  I  could  have  spotted  Betelgeuse  my-  self.&quot;  The  meal  consists  of  sardines,  ses-  ame  wheat,  and  cucumber  soup.  Ron-  ald  and  Doris  are  on  a  strict  diet.  Ma  likes  chicken  and  is  disappointed  with  Doris's  menu.  She  complains  that  she  is  lost  in  [REDACTED].  Doris  ahs  and  bahs  about  senility  resulting  from  old  age  often  accompanied  by  marked  deterio-  ration.  Doris  was  a  surgical  nurse  in  former  years.  I  suggest  to  Ronald  that  we  go  look  for  a  good  nursing  home  for  Ma  up  around  Hurleyville,  in  the  Catskills.  &quot;The  country  life!  That's  for  Mal  Open  spaces,  forests-poultry  and  chickens,  if  you  will.&quot;  Doris  is  disturbed.  &quot;Leon,&quot;  she  says,  &quot;did  you  notice  that  Ronald  looks  lost  in  his  old  clothes?  Espe-  cially  his  pants,  which  have  nothing  to  hold  on  to  he's  gotten  so  thin.&quot;  I  try  returning  to  the  subject  of  Ma's  future  in  the  country,  but  Ron-  ald  puts  another  record  on  the  ma-  chine  and  adds  sternly,  &quot;Albinoni's  Adagio.&quot;  Jun\xc2\xae  20718:  HEN  no  one  comes  to  the  Home  tosee  Ma,  she  sits  alone  in  her  armchair,  gazing  at  the  wall.  I've  come  in  quietly.  Spotting  me,  she  says,  &quot;Where  did  everybody  go?&quot;  She  wants  to  visit  with  my  family  and  maybe  stay  a  few  weeks.  I  bring  her  home,  but  it's  not  like  the  old  days.  My  wife,  Sally,  and  I  and  our  two  sons  come  and  go.  Ma  feels  neglected.  At  dinnertime  I  have  to  fetch  her  from  her  room.  She  says  Sally  doesn't  want  her.  I  bring  her  a  brandy  and  she  comes  out.  She  doesn't  care  for  our  cat,  Myrtle,  and  says  its  nose  is  too  large.  Myrtle  is  very  friendly,  hoping  for  some  of  the  chicken  Ma  is  eating.  Ma  talksto  Myrtle  in  Yiddish  and  gives  her  a  piece  of  drumstick.  My  wife  reminds  me  how  her  late  father  had  gone  to  work  well  into  his  eighties  and  then,  when  he  was  taken  ill,  &quot;had  no  place  to  lay  his  head.&quot;  I  remind  her  that  back  then  we  had  only  three  rooms,  that  our  two  sons  were  in  one  bedroom,  that  my  studio  was  in  our  bedroom  next  to  the  fire  escape,  and  that  the  only  place  for  her  fa-  ther  would  have  been  on  my  lap  at  my  desk.  June  30718:  COUSIN  Brn,  a  correspondent  and  columnist  for  a  Jewish  daily,  bounces  into  the  Home  today.  He  goes  quickly  from  office  to  office,  making  a  gesture  with  his  thumb  and  index  fin-  ger-the  &quot;O.K.&quot;  sign  from  the  fifties  Ballantine-beer  ads.  The  administra-  tors  at  the  Home  know  Ben  and  wel-  come  him  with  handshakes,  hoping  for  publicity  articles  and  pretending  that  Ma  is  special.  Ben  and  I  go  up  to  Ma's  room.  Her  nurse,  Mrs.  Caplan,  a  comely  woman  of  forty  or  so,  comes  in  and  Ma  asks  if  she's  married  or  single.  Mrs.  Caplan  says,  &quot;Occupied,  my  dear.&quot;  So  Ma  asks  Ben  if  he'd  like  to  meet  a  nice  social  worker.  Cousin  Ben,  a  bachelor  in  his  sixties,  has  been  left  high  and  dry  without  personal  family,  and  has  become  a  &quot;goody,&quot;  visiting  Ma  at  the  Home  with  uneven  frequency.  Ma  has  never  figured  how  Cousin  Ben  stays  unmarried  after  all  these  years,  espe-  cially  since  his  newspaper  job  includes  the  Bintel  Brief  column  of  advice  to  the  lovelorn.  &quot;Dear  Editor,  We're  two  sisters  in  love  with  the  same  man.  Our  names  are  S.  and  G.,  and  we're  23      A  smitten  with  a  boy  who's  deceived  both  of  us.&quot;  Ben  and  I  take  Ma  out  for  a  drive  into  the  city,  and  on  a  side  street  in  43616e616461Village  I  see  a  couple  in  a  loving  embrace  on  top  of  a  station  wagon.  I  don't  have  my  watch,  so  I  stop  the  car,  lean  out  of  the  window,  and  ask  them  for  the  right  time.  When  we  drive  off,  Ben  explodes  in  a  tirade.  He  says  to  Ma  that  my  head's  not  screwed  on  right.  &quot;The  in-  solence  of  it!  Your  behavior,&quot;  he  tells  me,  &quot;is  unbelievable.  You're  capable  of  anything-a  cataract  of  base  in-  stincts.&quot;  Ben  is  wearing  a  celluloid  collar  that  he's  been  using  for  years  to  save  on  shirt  and  laundry  costs,  washing  the  finger  and  sweat  marks  with  a  sponge.  Jury  918:  IGO  into  the  dispensary  with  Ma  for  her  weekly  checkup.  Dr.  Stein\xc2\xbb  berg  is  almost  as  old  as  Ma.  He  moves  slowly  and  like  an  automaton.  First  he  goes  around  his  desk  once  or  twice,  then  he  goes  around  again.  Ma  says  her  trouble  is  insomnia.  The  doctor  applies  the  stethoscope.  &quot;'There's  nothing  to  worry  about,&quot;  he  says,  as  if  addressing  a  crowd  farin  the  distance.  He  climbs  up  a  ladder  to  the  cabinet  where  he  keeps  his  sam-  " b"ples.  He  suggests  pills  from  every  shelf:  &quot;There's  something  for  every  disorder,  for  every  obsession.&quot;  Back  in  her  room,  Ma  says,  &quot;Listen  to  me,  Leon.  Gingold  passed  away  and  Mrs.  Kelly  passed  away  and  Mrs.  Se-  gal  passed  away  only  this  summer.  All  the  old  people  sitting  on  the  benches  fell  over  one  by  one  this  year.&quot;  &quot;Passed  away,  Ma?  A  person  dies.  Nobody  passes  away.&quot;  &quot;You're  all  alike,&quot;  Ma  says.  Auvoust  Ist:  A  doesn't  walk  in  the  garden,  because  there's  no  one  to  walk  with.  She  makes  friends  at  the  Home,  but  they  don't  last.  She  says  she's  all  skin  and  bones.  I  assure  her  that  she  doesn't  look  as  bad  to  others  as  she  does  to  herself.  &quot;'You  have  the  faceof  a  girl,  Ma.  Even  your  hair  glows.  How  is  it  to  be  old,  Ma?&quot;  Ma  explains  that  age  means  know-  ing  she'll  never  feel  perfectly  well  again,  never  move  easily  or  hear  or  see  well.  She  speaks  of  family  life  as  it  was  beforethe  Second  World  War.  &quot;Our  neighborhood  had  plenty  of  old  people.  In  those  days  families  lived  together-  grandma,  grandpa,  aunts,  parents,  children,  all  in  one  apartment.&quot;  I  tell  Ma  that  more  and  more,  as  I  look  into  the  mirror,  it's  her  face  look-  ing  out  at  me.  My  sister  Marion  has  nice  ears.  Ronald  and  I  have  European  ears.  Some  of  our  uncles  have  bat  ears.  A  donkey  or  two. WELL,  bust  my  shocks  .  ..  this  is  Big  Monroe,  good  buddy  ...  swattin'  flies  and  kickin'  tires.  ...&quot;  Ma  and  I  have  come  down  to  Mi-  ami  to  visit  Marion  and  her  husband,  Monroe.  He'sgot  a  citizens-band  ra-  dio  in  his  Cadillac  and  talks  road  tough.  I've  come  here  with  a  plan.  If  Ma  could  stay  at  Marion's  over  the  summer,  she  would  have  a  grand  vaca-  tion  and  get  out  of  the  Home.  I  could  break  up  Ma's  time  with  visits  to  my  house.  It  would  spark  Ronald,  and  I  might  slip  Ma  under  his  door.  But  I  can't  help  bad-mouthing  [REDACTED],  and  say  I'd  never  live  here  because  the  water  table  is  running  out.  Marion  and  Monroe  don't  liketo  hear  that,  and  I  never  get  my  plan  for  Ma  on  track.  &quot;Up  the  hills  an'  down  the  dales  .  ..  haulin'  chickens  in  my  flatbed  ...&quot;  Poulet  cremaillere.  Monroe  is  picking  up  all  the  restaurant  tabs,  using  credit  cards  by  the  score,  inserting  them  &lt;4  217  everywhere,  pulling  out  money  from  cracks  in  the  wall.I  don't  care  for  the  million-dollar  homes  sitting  on  top  of  each  other,  and  say  so.  &quot;Smokey  on  my  tail  .  ..  cuttin'  fog  in  an  eighteen-wheeler  .  ..&quot;  There  is  too  much  heavenly  hash  flying  around,  and  I  leave  with  Ma,  without  accom-  plishing  my  mission.  Sereremser  1076:  IT\xe2\x80\x99S  Ma's  ninetieth  birthday,  and  we've  all  come  together  at  my  house.  Marion  is  dressed  in  leopard.  &quot;Ma  was  so  vital,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;It  was  only  yesterday  she  was  so  together,  so  darling.&quot;  She  is  holding  Ma's  head  with  both  hands.  &quot;Dear  Ma,  you're  so  peaceful,  so  beau-  tiful.&quot;&quot;  Marion  bursts  into  tears.  &quot;Ma  doesn't  even  know  who  I  am  anymore!&quot;  Cousin  Ben  raises  his  wineglass  in  a  toast  to  &quot;Drezzle&quot;-Ma's  nickname  from  the  Old  Country.  &quot;You  know,  my  mother  used  to  say  that  Tante  Drezzle  was  quite  a  girl  on  the  other  side.  A  classic  beauty.  Unbelievable  how  she  spoke  on  the  telephone.  And  to  this  day  her  voice  comes  in  steady,  controlled,  regular.&quot;  Ben  counsels,  &quot;This  is  not  a  day  for  old  family  animosities.  It  is,  in  fact,  an  opportu-  nity  for  bolstering  family  pride.  All  of  us  can  see  that  Drezzle's  feeling  better,  and  old  sores  and  feelings  of  guilt  and  remorse  for  any  real  or  fancied  neglect  can  be  forgotten.&quot;  Ma  fixes  an  eye  on  Ben  and  asks  him  why  he  hasn't  found  a  suitable  girl  to  settle  down  with  yet.  She  re-  minds  us  about  Marion's  old  beaux:  &quot;Herbie,  Willie,  Harry  .  .  .&quot;  I  ask  Ma  if  she  recollects  a  Mr.  Abrams,  in  children's  dresses,  from  1930.  &quot;Who,  Abrams?  That  lecher!&quot;  Ma  had  met  Mr.  Abrams  at  a  lodge  affair,  and  she  might  have  married  him  ex-  cept  that  she  made  the  mistake  of  ask-  inga  Mrs.  Silverman,  also  a  widow,  up  to  meet  him.  &quot;He  nearly  fainted  from  her  perfume.  It  made  him  dizzy.  And  who  cooked  dinner?&quot;  Mr.  Abrams  pinched  Mrs.  Silverman's  cheek  in  the  middle  of  eating,  leaving  Ma's  face  hanging  over  a  bowl  of  soup  untouched.  All  of  us  are  startled  by  Ma's  clarity  and  well-being.  She  is  actually  stand-  ing.  I  ask  her  to  tell  everyone  what  kind  of  fur  Pa  sewed  onto  the  collars  of  overcoats  when  we  were  kids,  and  she  says,  &quot;Kolinsky.&quot;  Doris,  who  has  been  boiling  and  bubbling-a  mystery-gets  up  from  her  chair.  &quot;He's  instigating!&quot;  she  hisses.  She  sinks  back  and  fans  herself  with  a  magazine.  She  puffs  and  blows  her  nose.  My  brother  makes  signs  not  to  rile  her,  to  keep  absolutely  quiet,  that  it  will  pass.  Childe  Roland  and  Kate  Crackernuts.  Cousin  Ben  gets  up  to  leave,  and  I  go  with  him  to  the  door.  &quot;Leon,&quot;  he  says,  &quot;we  will  never  forget  Drezzle's  bright  hour  tonight.&quot;  Parson  Good-  fellow.  When  I  return,  poor  Ma  is  crawl-  ing  around  on  all  fours.  She's  come  apart  again.  We  help  her  to  the  sofa  in  the  living  room.  Ma  is  in  some  kind  of  stitching  process,  her  hands  reaching  for  invisible  threads,  busy,  undone.  Doris  sighs.  &quot;If  you  sleep  on  the  floor,  you'll  never  fall  out  of  bed.&quot;  Ronald  is  philosophic:  &quot;We  must  laugh  before  we  are  happy,  for  fear  of  dying  without  having  laughed  at  all.&quot;  Doris  is  in  tears  now,  sobbing  hard.  &quot;Ma  did  her  very  best  until  the  end.&quot;  Doris  is  yammering.  I  am  fascinated.  Is  she  going  to  turn  blue?  She  huddles  against  Ronald,  once  in  a  while  letting  out  a  hiccup.  I  butt  in  and  tell  them  about  how  I  had  a  phone  call  only  last  month  that  Ma  was  low  and  I  should  come  to  the  Home,  drove  all  the  way  crying  and  singing  old  songs  like  &quot;You  Know  You  Belong  to  Somebody  Else,&quot;  and  when  I  got  there  Ma  had  recovered  and  was  on  the  fifth  floor  having  lunch.  Ma  might  bounce  back,  and  I  couldbring  her  home  again.  December  7th:  BACK  at  the  Home,  Ma  sits  in  a  wheelchair  and  doesn't  recognize  me.  She  stares  as  if  tosay,  &quot;Don't  ask  me  anything  more.&quot;  Aprit  6TH:  COME  up  to  see  Ma  and  sit  with  her  for  a  half  hour.  She  seems  to  be  thinking.  Her  eyes  have  remained  sky  blue.  Her  silence  is  unending.  I  take  a  chance  and  speak  to  her:  &quot;Ma,  remem-  ber  Cousin  Ben?  Cousin  Ben  got  mar-  ried,  Ma.&quot;  For  the  first  time  in  months,  Ma  turns  her  head  toward  me  and  speaks.  &quot;Cousin  Ben  got  married?  To  whom?&quot;  Then,  almost  as  though  she  remembers  that  she's  old,  she  turns  away. "