 b"CARS  full  of  men,  women,  and children  come  in  off  the  road,  follow  the  track  down  between  the  rows  ofstripped  plants,  and  unload  in  the  sun  beside  the  farmhouse.  Baker  is  there  to  greet  them.  The  pockets  of  his  baggy  denim  coat  hang  heavy  and  ominous;  the  kids  give  him  nervous  smiles,  He  has  a  ball  of  twine  in  one  pocket,  a  letter  and  a  pair  of  scissors  in  the  other.  But  he  has  a  reputation  for  sneakiness,  for  insidious  attacks  out  of  nowhere.  He  isn't  to  be  trusted.  He  holds  his  hands  aloft,  empty,  and  only  then  do  the  children  feel  safe  to  turn  and  run.  Far  off  in  the  fields,  the  first  projectile  is  launched  and  misses.  Baker's  brother  Mack  arrives,  fam-  ily  in  tow,  impatient  to  begin.  His  wife,  Felice,  is  gorgeous-mint-eyed,  with  abundant  black  hair  stuffed  under  a  Funk  cap,  and  her  beauty  has  been  passed  unmarked  to  her  children,  Ross  and  Stephanie.  Ross  is  eleven,  Steph  is  nine.  Ross  is  getting  tall  like  Mack,  but  the  flashing  sensual  danger  that  has  informed  his  eyes  almost  since  birth  is  Felice's  gift  to  him.  Steph  has  a  better  arm  than  her  brother  and  wears  her  black  hair  cut  close  to  her  delicate  skull.  She  jumps  out  of  the  car  with  a  sense  of  purpose;  she  exits  on  the  side  away  from  Baker,  knowing  that  he  may  be  armed,  and  leaves  her  brother  behind  as  she  sprints  into  the  fields.  Felice  stays  in  the  car,  smiling  out  at  Baker.  She  won't  emerge  until  he  lifts  his  hands  up  like  a  man  under  arrest.  Mack  turns  off  the  engine  and  makes  a  show  of  unloading  provisions  from  the  trunk.  He  looks  packed  tight  in  his  old  jeans  and  sweatshirt,  eyes  hidden  behind  red  shades.  &quot;Come  out,&quot;  Baker  says,  leaning  over  to  get  a  better  look  at  his  sister-  in-law.  &quot;Put  your  hands  back  up,&quot;  she  or-  ders,  laughing,  knowing  he  will  obey.  He  does,  and  that  is  when  her  hus-  band  attacks.  Mack  has  brought  toma-  toes  from  home;  they  are  fresh,  crisp,  and  they  hit  Baker  in  the  forehead  and  in  the  chest  with  a  solidity  that  trans-  mits  real  pain.  They  do  not  explode  mushily,  safely  rotted  and  soft,  but  rather  hit  and  crack  open,  then  hold their  shape.  Baker  takes  a  step  back,  hand  over  his  head  wound.  When  the  second  shot  strikes  his  chest  he  melo-  dramatically  collapses  on  his  butt.  Al-  ready  he  has  judged  that  he  is  not  hurt,  but  he  sees  a  chance  to  have  Felice  make  a  fuss  over  him.  Lathrop's  pickup  steers  in  off  the  road.  He  toots  his  horn.  The  bed  is  full  of  kids,  too  many  to  count;  they  begin  to  jump  off  like  paratroopers  as  the  truck  comes  up  the  lane.  Shots  are  fired.  A  tomato  splatters  against  La-  throp's  door.  Another  goes  in  the  win-  dow  and  out  the  other  side  without  touching  anything,  and  Lathrop  jab-  bers  about  good  omens  when  he  parks  the  truck.  Baker  sees  his  son,  Clar-  ence,  take  a  hit  in  the  shoulder,  a  gory  explosion  of  seeds  and  pulp  spreading  in  the  air  behind  him.  Lathrop  has  brought  his  own  boy,  Donald,  and  a  pack  of  neighbor  kids,  who  change  from  year  to  year.  Donald  is  a  shy  boy  with  pale,  bad  skin  and  bony  arms.  He  has  no  old  clothes  to  sacrifice  to  this  event;  he  wears  what  he  always  wears-jeans  thin  at  the  points  of  friction,  a  red  cotton  shirt,  and  a  sweatshirt  he  won  from  Clar-  ence  throwing  knives.  Marilyn,  Don-  ald's  mother,  has  remained  at  home,  cloistered  in  a  shy-  ness  of  her  own.  Baker  has  never  spoken  to  her,  has  only  seen  her  pass  in  the  truck,  driving  too  fast  in  her  hurry  to  be  elsewhere.  &quot;It'll  be  great  when  that  interchange  is  finished,&quot;  Mack  says,  watching  Felice  wipe  dripping  tomato  from  Baker's  forehead  with  a  tissue,  her  hand  curled  around  the  back  of  his  neck,  a  finger  running  along  an  earlobe.  &quot;We  have  to  go  a  good  ten  miles  out  of  our  way  to  get  here.&quot;  It  is  Sunday,  and  a  mile  to  the  east  wait  the  ma-  chines  that  bring  a  shiver  to  the  earth.  All  week  An-  gela  can  feel  it  in  the  kitchen  floor.  The  ma-  chines  skim  like  lizards  over  the  dirt,  shaping  it  into  cloverleaf  arcs.  An  exit  off  the  tollway  is  being  built.  It  is  a  feat  of  political  wizardry  that  took  four  years  to  accomplish.  The  " b"businesses  in  town  pushed  hard  for  the  access  ramps.  They  already  are  counting  their  money,  planning  ex-  pansion.  The  construction  of  a  shop-  ping  mall  within  sight  of  Baker's  house  is  at  present  a  hard  rumor.  He  has  received  three  offers  for  this  property;  even  the  lowest  of  the  three  represents  an  astonishing  amount  of  money.  Baker  misses  Donovan.  He  was  on  the  phone  with  him  earlier  in  the  day,  discussing  money  and  tomatoes.  Don-  ovan  usually  attends  this  event,  but  his  back  went  bad  during  the  harvest.  Half  his  crop  didn't  get  in.  The  kids  he  usually  brought  with  him  hadno  way  of  getting  to  Baker's  this  year,  and  their  presence  is  missed.  The  bat-  tle  seems  threadbare  for  lack  of  soldiers.  The  air  is  full  of  tomatoes  and  screams.  'The  Wallaces  arrive  with  their  children  and  a  couple  of  dogs.  Margo  Wallace,  moments  after  get-  ting  out  of  their  station  wagon,  takes  a  hit  in  the  neck.  Dewey,  her  husband,  a  gentle  man,  opens  fire  on  her  from  a  yard  away  and  lands  threeshots  before  Mack  comes  to  her  rescue  and  drives  her  husband  off.  Margo  opens  fire,  hitting  Mack  in  the  thigh.  No  one  is  paying  attention  to  Baker,  so  he  drifts,  fancying  himself  invisible,  along  the  wall  of  his  house,  across  the  yard,  and  then  into  the  unmowed  grass  behind  the  picker  shack.  The  air  in  the  shack  smells  of  Lysol.  He  has  hid-  den  a  bushel  basket  filled  with  toma-  toes  there.  It  is  a  tactic  his  father  employed  when  he  was  the  host  for  these  tomato  wars.  Baker's  father  al-  ways  said  his  proudest  moment  was  the  year  Baker  and  Mack  ambushed  him  inside  the  shack  with  his  own  toma-  toes,  having  finally  figured  out  the  stratagem.  Baker  arms  himself  with  a  half-  dozen  soft,  rotting  tomatoes  still  fresh  enough  to  hold  their  shape.  He  loads  three  into  his  pockets,  carries  two  in  his  right  hand  and  one  in  his  left,  his  gun  hand.  He  looks  out  the  door.  No  one  is  around.  The  squealing  is  in  the  distance.  He  puts  his  right  hand  be-  hind  him,  his  left  in  his  pocket-a  nonchalant  posture  that  will  fool  no-  body.  Through  a  line  of  weeping  wil-  lows  he  sees  Felice  running,  being  chased.  A  tomato  zips  past  her  head;  he  wants  to  call  to  her,  guide  her  to  safety.  Her  husband  is  in  pursuit.  He  runs  hard,  and  when  he  is  close  he lunges  at  Felice's  legs,  butshe  slips  the  tackle  and  Mack  slides  on  his  face  through  tomato  slime.  Everyone  has  a  good  laugh  at  his  expense.  Dirk  Dutcher,  a  city  boy,  a  pal  from  law  school,  attacks  Baker  from  behind.  Dirk  and  his  family  have  slipped  into  the  party  while  Baker  was  arming  himself  in  the  picker  shack.  Baker  sees  Emily  Dutcher  pulling  baby  gear  out  of  the  rearof  their  car,  and  he  lifts  his  hand  in  greeting  while  remembering  that  Dirk  is  not  in  sight,  and  sly,  and  to  be  avoided.  A  tomato  hits  Baker  in  the  back  then,  with  such  force  that  he  feels  the  moisture  gush  straight  through  his  clothes  to  his  skin.  Emily  hoots.  Turning,  Baker  takes  another  wet  missile  under  the  jaw,  and  it  oc-  curs  to  him  that  he  has  been  hit  four  times  without  getting  off  a  shot.  47  &quot;Give  up,&quot;  Angela  calls  to  him  from  the  kitchen  window.  The  urge  is  strong  to  lob  abig  one  at  her,  let  the  screen  pur\xc3\xa9e  it  all  over  her.  Instead  he  starts  to  run,  leaping  over  the  rows  of  plants,  over  the  ruts  left  by  the  trucks  that  came  and  took  his  crop  away  to  be  turned  into  soup.  He  is  a  surprise  to  many,  the  way  he  gallops  up  on  them  and  lets  fly  with  his  tomatoes  before  they  can  flee.  He  gets  Clarence  good.  He  hits  an  anony-  mous  kid  in  the  head  on  the  run.  He  uses  his  last  four  rounds  with  care,  two  on  Mack  and  two  on  Felice,  hit-  ting  them  each  once.  Before  they  can  retaliate,  he  runs  back  across  the  field  and  up  the  back  stairs  of  his  house  to  the  mudroom.  Angela  hands  him  a  towel  and  clean  clothes.  He  bathes  standing  at  the  " b"downstairs  bathroom  sink.  He  knows  he  will  find  tomato  seeds  stuck  in  odd  places  for  the  rest  of  the  winter.  His  wife  watches  him  from  the  door.  &quot;Have  you  finished  paying  homage  to  the  tomato  god?&quot;  she  asks.  &quot;I'm  meeting  with  Lath  be-  fore  dinner,&quot;  Baker  says.  &quot;I  can't  face  him  looking  like  one  of  the  help.&quot;  His  wife  is  in  a  good  mood,  because  tomato  season  is  over.  At  the  bottom  of  the  basement  stairs,  in  a  cool,  dark  locker  built  by  Lathrop  in  exchange  for  a  break  on  his  rent,  are  several  hundred  jars  of  tomatoes.  Angela  knows  they  will  never  eat  them.  The  jars  at  the  back  are  velvety  with  dust.  At  the  end  of  the  day  she  will  dispense  jars  of  tomatoes  to  each  of  her  guests,  even  the  chil-  dren,  as  if  it  were  a  requirement  of  their  leaving.  In  a  small  plot  off  the  back  door  is  her  own  garden;  she  grows  a  variety  of  things,  but  not  a  single  tomato,  in  an  enclosure  she  built  herself  of  rabbit  mesh  and  pine  lumber.  HE  and  Baker  had  met  when  he  opened  his  office  in  the  city.  His  father  was  still  alive,  raising  tomatoes  for  the  soup  company.  He  had  wanted  Baker  to  return  from  college  and  learn  the  farm,  but  Baker  had  ambitions  as  a  computer-software  patent  attorney.  The  amorphous  nature  of  that  work  mystified  his  father,  as  had  the  death  of  his  wife  seven  years  before  from  a  disease  that  never  showed  itself  but  quietly  took  her  from  within.  Baker  advertised  for  a  secretary,  and  from  nearly  forty  applicants  he  selected  Angela,  who  could  type  passably  well  and  take  dictation  fast  enough  to  suit  him  but  also  exhibited  a  levelheaded  humor  that  sat  easily  with  Baker  and  reminded  him  of  his  mother.  Business  was  slow  in  the  beginning,  and  for  hours  they  sat  by  themselves  simply  talking,  feet  up  on  the  tables,  taking  turns  getting  cold  drinks  from  the  machine  in  the  hall.  He  talked  mostly  about  his  father  and  the  emptiness  he  felt  each  time  he  went  home.  His  father  was  counting  on  him  to  grow  tomatoes,  to  turn  his  father  loose  in  his  final  years  with  the  knowledge  that  all  that  he  had  built  would  not  fall  away  when  he  was  gone.  It  was  not  something  Baker  could  promise.   Mack  had  already  married  and  moved  away.  There  seemed  no  argu-  ing  with  Felice's  allure.  Her  family  lived  in  the  city,  in  a  tower  where  the  doorman  gave  Mack  a  hard  time  when  he  came  to  pick  up  Felice;  gave  him  a  hard  time  until  Felice's  father  called  the  doorman  off.  If  Mack  had  not  met  Felice,  Baker's  father  said,  something  else  would  have  taken  him  away  from  the  farm.  He  never  had  any  interest  in  the  place.  As  their  father  aged,  the  work  on  the  farm  became  too  arduous  for  him.  Baker  hired  Lathrop.  He  was  a  stringy  young  man  with  a  pregnant  wife.  He  took  over  the  second  house  and  imme-  diately  became  indispensable.  &quot;I  get  such  a  kick  out  of  watching  him  work,&quot;  Baker's  father  said.  &quot;He's  a  machine.  Doesn't  need  much  sleep.  Doesn't  need  much  food.  Today  he  roofed  and  painted  the  picker  shacks  over  on  his  share.&quot;  Lathrop  farmed  a  quarter  of  the  to-  tal  acreage  his  first  year.  Baker  gave  him  a  third  of  the  land  his  second  year,   and  half  the  acreage  his  third  year.  One  afternoon  a  wheelbarrow  rolled  over  his  father's  foot  and  crushed  a  small  bone.  Baker  spent  mornings  and  evenings  at  the  farm,  making  breakfast  and  dinner.  Many  of  those  nights  he  slept  over,  starting  to  feel  a  little  trapped.  He  placed  calls  to  Angela  in  the  dead  of  night.  From  that  farm-  house,  lying  on  the  kitchen  floor  to  stretch  a  kink  in  his  back,  he  asked  her  to  marry  him.  He  installed  a  computer,  but  his  dad  had  no  interest  in  learning  how  it  worked.  He  wrote  a  program  for  the  farm,  and  it  worked  so  efficiently  that  he  adapted  it  for  a  generic  farm  opera-  tion,  patented  the  software  under  the  name  AgriStar,  and  lived  comfortably  with  Angela  on  the  proceeds.  She  quit  work  as  his  secretary,  they  married,  they  moved  to  the  farm,  and  she  be-  came  pregnant  with  Clarence.  Her  pregnancy  was  difficult,  full  of  vomiting  and  fevers,  an  ordeal  made  worse  by  the  presence  of  Baker's  father  and  the  onset  of  a  vicious  winter.  Baker  had  to  rise  at  4  a.m.  to  plow  out  the  drive  to  the  road,  then  hope  a  county  plow  would  open  the  road  so  he  could  get  to  work.  He  would  leave  his  wife  bowed  over  the  toilet,  a  cool  cloth  held  to  her  forehead.  His  father  slept  late.  The  broken  bone  in  his  foot  had  never  really  healed,  and  in  compensating  for  it  he  threw  out  the  fragile  alignment  of  the  rest  of  him.  He  was  in  pain,  and  bitched  a  lot.  At  noon,  he  began  to  " b"take  little  drinks  of  Scotch.  He  did  not  care  for  Angela.  He  had  no  sympathy  for  her  condition.  She  was  a  dividing  force,  taking  time  from  his  son  better  spent  on  him.  A  package  arrived  in  the  mail.  It  was  a  modem  Baker  had  ordered,  and  when  it  was  installed  he  could  work  from  home.  He  did  not  leave  the  house  for  nearly  a  month.  He  phoned  his  office  in  the  morning,  hooking  into  the  computer  there.  Groceries  were  trucked  in  from  town.  The  delivery,  man  parked  at  the  end  of  the  drive,  honked  until  Baker  signalled  from  the  house,  then  left  the  food  by  the  road.  Baker  hiked  out  through  the  drifts  to  retrieve  it.  He  was  careful  to  tell  An-  gela  where  he  was  going;  she  grew  fearful  when  he  was  out  of  her  sight.  Her  sickness  abated.  A  genial  air  set-  tled.  Baker  worked  in  the  amber  light  of  his  computer,  trying  to  give  it  enough  information  to  see  the  future.  They  counted  the  days  until  winter  broke.  In  early  March,  Baker's  father  caught  a  cold;  he  said  it  came  up  through  the  break  in  his  foot.  His  condition  deteriorated  to  the  point  where  they  took  him  to  the  hospital  when  Baker  drove  Angela  in  to  have  her  baby.  Baker  became  lost  in  a  maze  of  admitting  forms;  a  pregnant  woman  and  an  old  man  with  a  severe  cold  logged  in  by  one  person  under  the  same  insurance  carrier  taxed  the  imagination  of  the  admitting  nurse  and  the  computer  she  worked  on.  When  Baker  took  Angela  and  Clar-  ence  home,  his  fatherstayed  behind.  He  liked  being  in  the  hospital.  The  nurses  found  him  charming  and  affa-  ble.  The  food  was  good.  He  enjoyed  the  attention,  the  indolence.  Baker  tried  to  visit  every  day,  every  other  day.  The  trip  was  sixteen  miles  each  way.  The  snow  was  a  problem.  He  found  the  hospital  depressing.  A  nasty  little  hack  remained  in  hisfa-  ther's  chest,  and  no  combination  of  medication  and  .breathing  apparatus  could  dislodge  it.  They  put  him  on  oxygen,  on  intravenous  antibiotics.  He  lay  in  bed  and  watched  game  showson  the  TV  that  hung  from  the  ceiling.  The  little  mask  covering  his  mouth  and  nose  fogged  and  cleared.  He  was  not  improving.  On  another  dayhe  was  sitting  up  in  bed  when  Baker  arrived.  He  seemed  himself,  his  sour  humor  returned.  He  askedabout  his  grandson,  who  was  having  trouble  getting  enough  to  eat from  his  mother.  Angela's  nipples  were  cracked  and  sore;  she  rubbed  cream  into  them  each  night  in  a  tanta-  lizing  ritual  before  kissing  Baker  good  night  and  turning  her  back  on  him.  She  would  not  let  Baker  help  with  this  chore.  Baker  and  his  father  talked  about  the  farm  for  a  while.  &quot;With  all  this  snow,&quot;  his  father  said,  &quot;you  forget  there's  good  ground  underneath.  About  this  time  every  winter  I  start  to  think  we'll  never  see  another  tomato.&quot;  &quot;Angela's  got  a  ton  of  them  in  the  cellar,&quot;  Baker  said.  &quot;If  you  ever  get  the  urge  to  look  at  one.&quot;  His  father  laughed,  dipping  his  head  down.  At  the  last  moment  he  reached  behind  his  pillow  and  took  out  the  little  oxygen  mask  and  clamped  it  over  his  face.  &quot;Do  you  need  the  nurse?&quot;  Baker  asked,  coming  to  the  side  of  the  bed.  His  father  shook  his  head,  paused,  and  then  started  to  nod.  A  harsh,  sob-  bing  cough  came  from  him.  Baker  went  out  the  door,  into  the  cool  hall-  " b"way,  and  shouted  for  a  nurse.  A  young  girl  in  a  green  smock  came  at  a  disin-  terested  pace.  Baker's  father  was  suck-  ing  at  the  oxygen  with  a  panicky  greed.  His  face  had  begun  to  turn  blue.  The  girl  pushed  a  button  near  the  bed,  and  within  moments  two  nurses  appeared;  the  second  one  through  the  door  pushed  Baker  into  the  hallway.  Nurses  and  doctors  tumbled  out  of  the  stairway  and  off  the  elevator  and  sprinted  toward  his  father's  room.  Baker  recognized  none  of  them.  So  many  of  them  went  into  the  room,  and  stayed  in,  that  he  wondered  where  they  would  all  fit,  wondered  if  they  would  get  in  each  other's  way  and  be  less  effective  at  combatting  the  thing  that  had  hold  of  his  father.  Baker  went  to  a  phone  at  the  end  of  the  hall  and  called  Mack.  He  arrived  with  Felice  an  hour  after  their  father  died,  and  Baker  was  ashamed  that  his  grief  was  eased  significantly  by  the  sight  of  his  sister-in-law.  lA\xe2\x80\x99I\xe2\x80\x98HROP  comes  into  the  mudroom.  He  steps  out  of  his  boots  and  hangs  up  his  jacket  with  the  dutiful  air  of  a  well-mannered  child.  Angela  calls  out  to  him;  he  answers  politely.  She  sees  him  peel  off  his  pants,  and  beneath  them  is  a  clean  pair  of  pants  damp  in  spots  where  tomatoes  soaked  through.  &quot;Who's  winning?&quot;  Baker  asks,  coming  into  the  kitchen.  &quot;Hard  to  say,&quot;  Lathrop  says.  &quot;The  dark-haired  girl,  the  pretty  one?  She's  taking  a  beating.&quot;  &quot;Felice,&quot;  Angela  says.  Baker  tries  to  spot  her  through  the  window,  but  the  battle  has  moved  far  away  from  the  house  in  the  con-  stant  search  for  fresh  ammunition.  &quot;This  seemed  like  a  good  time  to  sit  down  and  talk,&quot;  Lathrop  says  to  Baker.  &quot;Dinner'll  be  in  about  an  hour,&quot;  Angela  says.  Baker  feels  relaxed  in  Lathrop's  presence.  He  reminds  him  of  his  fa-  ther.  There  is  the  same  stubborn  ab-  sence  of  frills,  of  an  interest  in  any-  thing  other  than  his  family,  his  land,  and  the  niceties  of  growing  tomatoes.  They  take  seats  in  the  office-Baker  at  his  desk,  Lathrop  in  a  hard-backed  chair.  He  stretches  out  his  legs,  picks  a  tomato  seed  off  his  shirt  cuff  and  sets  it  on  his  tongue.  Baker  flicks  on  the  computer,  puts  in  a  disk.  &quot;Smaller  crowd  than  last  year,&quot;  Lathrop  observes.  Baker  taps  keys;  numbers,  a  history  of  his  farm,  appear  before  his  eyes.  &quot;Kids  get  older,&quot;  Baker  says.  \xc2\xab&quot;They  get  different  ideas  of  fun.  Don-  ovan's  back  is  shot,  and  he  usually  brought  eight  or  ten  kids.&quot;  &quot;A  crowd  all  by  themselves,&quot;  La-  throp  says.  He  leans  slightly  forward  to  try  to  get  a  look  at  what  is  on  the  screen,  but  can  see  only  the  faint  am-  ber  shimmer  that  falls  onto  Baker's  desk  top.  He  removes  a  sheaf  of  papers  from  inside  his  shirt.  He  has  a  pencil  behind  his  ear.  Lathrop  is  there  to  be  paid  his  share  of  the  final  harvest.  Throughout  the  year  Baker  compensates  Lathrop  with  a  small  salary  and  by  deferring  some  payments  for  rent,  water,  electricity,  heat.  It  is  a  system  that  requires  pains-  taking  bookkeeping,  because  the  amounts  they  deal  with  may  be  as  small  as  eight  or  nine  dollars  a  day.  Baker  has  it  all  in  his  computer.  La-  throp's  version  of  their  financial  dealings  is  kept  on  the  sheets  of  blue-lined  paper  that  he  smooths  over  his  leg.  He  has  set  the  numbers  down  in  pen-  cil;  some  are  smudged,  especially  those  that  he  began  to  record  following  last  year's  harvest.  Lathrop  clears  his  throat.  He  has  written  a  figure  in  ink  on  the  last  sheet.  It  is  what  he  hopes  to  be  paid  by  Baker.  Because  he  doesn't  precisely  know  Baker's  expenses  for  seed,  insecticide,  fuel,  insurance,  pickers,  tax-  es,  and  the  like,  his  figure  is  an  educated  guess.  But  he  has  been  at  this  for  years,  ev-  ery  autumn  he  makes  a  yearly  estimate,  four  years  ago  he  came  within  fifty-five  cents  of  his  desired  total.  He  knows  pretty  well  what  things  cost.  He  knows  they  have  grown  and  shipped  a  lot  of  " b"tomatoes.  He  knows  within  two  or  three  cents  the  price  per  crate  Baker  got  from  the  soup  com-  pany.  He  knows  exactly  the  debt  he  has  compiled  with  Baker  over  the  year.  The  entire  year,  its  es-  sence,  his  love  of  it,  is  caught  in  the  seed  that  he  plays  with  in  his  mouth.  He  is  delaying  the  delicious  moment  when  he  will  bite  the  seed,  feel  the  tomato  within  it.  &quot;I  talked  to  Donovan  night  before  last,&quot;  he  says  to  Baker.  &quot;How  is  he?&quot;  &quot;In  pain.  But  happy.  They  offered  him  forty-four  per  acre  for  his  place.&quot;  Baker  says,  &quot;I've  been  offered  as  much  as  sixty-one.&quot;  Lathrop  bites  the  seed  in  two.  He  can  only  wait  for  Baker  to  go  on.  &quot;Donovan  going  to  accept?&quot;  Baker  asks.  &quot;Wouldn't  you?  Bad  back.  Kids  to  raise.&quot;  &quot;In  Donovan's  situation,  I  guess  I  would,&quot;  Baker  says.  &quot;He  says  they're  going  to  get  it  anyway,  might  as  well  let  them  make  him  rich,&quot;  Lathrop  says.  &quot;What  does  Donovan  have?  Six  hundred  acres?&quot;  &quot;At  least.  Maybe  a  thousand,&quot;  Lathrop  says.  Baker  taps  keys,  filling  in  blanks  in  an  equation.  &quot;If  he  has  six  hundred,&quot;  he  says,  &quot;that's  two  million  six.&quot;  Lathrop  whistles  as  though  the  amount  were  a  surprise.  &quot;That'll  buy  a  back  operation  or  two,&quot;  he  says,  repeating  a  joke  Baker  himself  heard  from  Donovan.  &quot;I'd  love  to  see  my  dad  in  this  spot,&quot;  Baker  says.  &quot;He'd  never  bite,&quot;  Lathrop  says  firmly.  &quot;He'd  never  have  sold  this  land.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know,&quot;  Baker  says.  &quot;This  kind  of  money-it'll  turn  any  man's  head.  Even  Dad's.  It's  like  money  in  a  dream.&quot;  &quot;What  does  Angela  say?&quot;  &quot;She's  afraid  of  doing  the  wrong  thing,&quot;  Baker  says.  &quot;What  about  the  harvest?&quot;  Lathrop  says.  Baker  touches  a  key  on  the  com-  puter.  &quot;My  figure  for  your  share  of  the  crop,  less  what  you  owe  me  for  the  year,  is  pennies  shy  of  thirteen  thousand  dollars.  So  let's  call  it  that,&quot;  Baker  says.  Lathrop  nods.  He  was  expecting  fif-  teen  hundred  less,  counting  on  it,  bal-  ancing  the  coming  year  on  it.  The  extra  fifteen  hundred  is  like  a  glow  in  his  middle,  an  almost  sexual  sense  of  well-being  that  will  make  the  rest  of  this  day  perfect.  He  will  pick  at  the  implications  ofthat  unexpected  money  all  night,  and  by  morning  he  will  have  whittled  it  down  to  its  true  stature  in  his  life,  but  for  now  he  reaches  and  shakes  Baker's  hand,  to  put  a  stamp  on  his  good  fortune.  BAKER\xe2\x80\x99S  yard  is  like  a  camp  for  the  wounded.  Warriors  from  the  field  lie  about  scraping  tomato  drippings  from  their  hair,  shaking  wet  pulp  from  inside  their  shirts.  Baker  looks  for  Fe-  lice,  for  Mack,  but  they  are  not  around.  Angela  has  stacked  old  towels  on  the  porch  and  turned  on  the  hose.  It  seems  like  an  invitation  to  a  new  form  of  warfare.  But  hunger  and  ex-  haustion  have  settled  in;  everyone  wants  to  get  clean  enough  to  be  al-  lowed  into  the  house  to  eat.  &quot;Mack  and  'Lice  are  upstairs,&quot;  An-  gela  tells  Baker.  &quot;What  for?&quot;  \xc2\xab'They  wanted  a  hot  shower.&quot;  He  can  hear  the  water  in  the  pipes,  now  that  he  listens  for  it.  The  upstairs  shower  is  one  of  the  house's  problems;  a  hidden  leak  produces  damp  fungus  on  the  ceiling  of  the  first-floor  bath-  room.  He  carries  a  tub  of  mashed  potatoes  to  the  table,  then  walks  back  into  the  kitchen.  Angela  hands  him  nearly  an  armload  of  utensils,  and  he  takes  his  time  setting  them  out.  The  seating  arrangement  calls  for  the  adults  and  some  of  the  children  to  have  places  at  the  main  table,  with  two  smaller  tables  stuck  like  moons  in  the  corners  for  the  extra  children.  He  keeps  listening  to  the  running  water.  He  hears  the  shower  basin  groan  when  he  returns  to  the  kitch-  en,  and  he  is  speechless  with  wonder  and  curiosity  at  the  possibility  of  " b" his  brother  and  sister-in-law  in  the  shower  together  in  his  own  house.  He  would  not  put  it  past  Mack  to  make  love  tohis  wife  there  in  Baker's  shower  to  hold  as  a  secret  triumph.  He  has  boasted  before,  when  it  was  just  the  two  of  them  drinking  beer,  when  they  were  most  like  brothers,  of  unex-  pected  sexual  locations.  He  recounted  escapades  with  his  old  girlfriends,  which  amused  Baker,  and  with  Felice,  the  details  of  which  struck  Baker  like  sparks  to  the  face.  Telling  these  stories  is  a  thrill  for  Mack.  He  knows  his  brother  is  half  in  love  with  Felice.  Angela  gives  him  a  trayof  glasses  to  put  in  place.  She  follows  with  pitchers  of  tea  and  lemonade.  Children  he  does  not  recognize  have  begun  to  find  seats  at  the  extra  tables.  Some  still  have  tomato  bits  in  their  hair.  Others  have  made  an  attempt  at  getting  cleaned  up.  Their  hair  gleams,  they  have  seeds  in  their  ears.  They  have  peeled  off  muddy  overalls  to  reveal  clean  clothes  beneath.  They  have  left  their  caked  boots  in  a  line  in  the  mudroom.  Clarence  comes  in  and  smiles  at  his  father.  Angela  gives  him  the  pitcher  of  lemonade,  and  he  begins  to  pour.  &quot;Who  won?&quot;  Baker  asks.  &quot;I  got  in  some  shots,&quot;  Clarence  says  proudly.  &quot;I  got  Uncle  Mack  a  real  good  one.  Point-blank.  Right  in  the  back  of  the  head.&quot;  This  report  cheers  up  Baker,  and  he  reaches  to  slap  his  son's  palm.  Felice  appears,  her  hair  wrapped  in  a  towel,  her  face  scrubbed.  The  water  is  still  running  in  the  pipes,  so  Mack  is  in  the  shower  alone,  a  revelation  that  leaves  Baker  elated.  &quot;He  got  me,  too!  The  punk,&quot;  she  says  to  Clarence.  &quot;Right  in  the  butt.&quot;  Baker  watches  his  son  turn  red.  He  sees  in  Clarence's  shyness  something  of  himself,  of  the  way  this  woman  infects  him.  She  unwinds  the  towel  and  lets  the  black  nestof  her  hair  fall  free,  tipping  her  head  forward  so  her  hair  hangs  in  a  bundle  that  she  shakes,  spraying  droplets.  She  takes  a  brush  from  her  back  pocket  and  begins  to  work  at  the  tangle.  Baker  longs  to  help  her.  More  strange  children  come  into  the  room.  They  are  polite,  taking  their  seats  at  the  outer  tables.  Ross  and  Steph  appear.  Ross  has  a  welt  under  his  eye. &quot;What  happened  to  you?&quot;&quot;  Baker  asks.  &quot;Rock.&quot;  \xc2\xabSomeone  threw  a  rock?&quot;  &quot;In  all  the  excitement,&quot;  Felice  says,  whipping  her  hair  back  off  her  face,  &quot;someone  mistook  a  rock  for  a  tomato.&quot;  Baker  touches  the  area  around  the  wound.  Ross  pulls  away.  There  is  swelling,  bruising,  a  small  opening  in  the  skin.  &quot;How  about  some  ice  for  that?&quot;  Baker  asks.  He  wraps  some  cubes  in  a  dishcloth  in  the  kitchen.  Ross  sits  grudgingly  and  accepts  the  cold  pressure  Baker  applies  to  his  cheekbone.  \xc2\xabYou  want  to  hold  it?&quot;  Baker  asks.  &quot;I  can't  eat  holding  this.&quot;  &quot;Keep  it  on  until  dinner's  ready,&quot;  Baker  says.  &quot;And  don't  whine,&quot;  Steph  scolds.  &quot;Shut  up,&quot;  Ross  answers.  Felice  puts  a  hand  on  her  son's  head,  and  itis  enough.  He  sits  hunched  over,  leaning  into  the  cool  relief  the  ice  offers.  It  is  time  to  eat  and  Mack  hasn't  come  down.  &quot;Go  get  him,&quot;  Felice  tells  Baker.  She  has  taken  a  seat  between  her  children.  &quot;He's  your  brother.&quot;  &quot;He's  your  hus-  band.&quot;  &quot;I'm  battered.  Bruised,&quot;  she  declares.  &quot;Don't  make  me  climb  those  stairs  again.&quot;  Angela  comes  in  car-  rying  a  huge  platter  of  fried  chicken.  &quot;Go,&quot;  she  commands.  Baker  climbs  the  stairs.  They  are  too  steep,  the  result  of  a  miscalculation  by  the  carpenters  who  added  on  the  second  floor.  Angela  complains  about  them.  Since  the  offers  have  started  to  come  in  for  the  land,  she  finds  little  prob-  lems  in  the  house  more  annoying.  Baker  doesn't  real-  ly  want  his  brother  to  come  down,  though  Angela  is  getting  im-  patient  at  the  snagged  momentum  of  her  meal.  Once  they  all  start  to  eat,  the  day  " b"moves  irrevocably  to-  ward  its  sleepy  end.  The  upstairs  is  cool;  it  will  be  chilly  all  win-  ter,  the  overworked  furnace  never  quite  do-  ing  the  job  up  there.  Mack  is  in  the  bath-  room,  shaving.  &quot;Whose  razor?&quot;  Baker  asks.  &quot;I  don't  know.  It  needs  a  new  blade.&quot;  &quot;You're  holding  up  dinner.&quot;  &quot;I'm  almost  done,&quot;  he  says.  He  has  on  clean  bluejeans,  no  shirt,  no  shoes.  His  hair  needs  combing;  half  his  face  is  lathered.  &quot;You  have  fun  to-  day?&quot;  he  asks,  watch,  ing  Baker  in  the  mir-  ror.  &quot;This  is  always  a  nice  day.&quot;  &quot;How  many  tomato  fights've  we  had?&quot;  Millions.&quot;  Mack  rinses  off  the  razor,  touches  the  wet  slickness  of  his  jaw.  &quot;I  always  liked  throwing  at  girls,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;I  was  scared  to  touch  them  otherwise.&quot;  &quot;You  were?&quot;  &quot;You,  too.&quot;  &quot;Not  me.&quot;  &quot;Now,&quot;  Mack  says,  &quot;every  guy  out  there  is  throwing  at  my  wife.  That  Donald  kid.  His  dad.  Clarence.  Even  my  own  son,  throwing  at  his  mom.&quot;  'Too  Oedipal,&quot;  Baker  says.  &quot;It's  true.&quot;  &quot;She's  an  inviting  target,&quot;  Baker  says.  Mack  laughs.  He  knows  what  Fe-  lice  does  to  men.  &quot;Where  did  you  go?&quot;  he  asks.  &quot;'To  play  the  country  squire?&quot;  &quot;I  had  business,&quot;  Baker  says.  &quot;It's  Lath's  big  payday.&quot;  Angela's  exasperated  call  comes  from  below,  and  Baker  hollers  back  that  they  are  on  their  way  down.  &quot;Don't  dillydally,&quot;  Baker  says  to  his  brother.  Mack  wipes  his  face  on  a  towel,  leaves  it  in  a  pile  on  the  sink.  He  takes  his  shirt  from  the  bag  Felice  packed  and  pulls  it  on.  &quot;How  much  did  you  pay  him?&quot;  he  asks. &quot;Thirteen  grand,&quot;  Baker  says.  &quot;Thirteen  grand,&quot;  Mack  muses.  &quot;A  nice  chunk.  I  bet  he  goes  through  it  in  three,  four  months.&quot;  &quot;He's  frugal,&quot;  Baker  says.  &quot;A  no-frills  [REDACTED];  Mack  says.  He  is  back  at  the  mirror,  parting  his  hair  with  Baker's  comb.  &quot;I'll  see  you  downstairs.&quot;  &quot;You  going  to  sell?&quot;  Mack  asks  abruptly.  &quot;I  don't  know.  We  should  talk  about  it.&quot;  &quot;How  much  money  will  we  be  talk-  ing  about?&quot;  &quot;If  we  take  the  high  offer,  a  million  and  a  half  apiece,  roughly,&quot;  Baker  says.  He  waits  at  the  bedroom  door.  His  brother  is  putting  on  socks,  a  belt.  &quot;We're  starting  without  you!&quot;  An-  gela  roars  from  downstairs.  &quot;'There's  nothing  to  talk  about,&quot;  Mack  says,  passing  his  brother,  de-  scending.  Everyone  is  waiting  for  them.  An-  gela  gives  them  each  a  black  look.  Emily  Dutcher  hasher  sweater  lifted  surreptitiously,  her  baby  at  her  breast.  Mack  kisses  Felice  on  the  neck  and  falls  into  his  seat  to  Steph's  right.  He  taps  his  daughter  on  theshoulder.  &quot;Hi,  sharpshooter,&quot;  he  says.  Angela  asks  Baker  to  say  grace.  He  stands  behind  his  chair;  heads  bow  over  empty  plates.  Embarrassed,he  races  through  a  brief  litany  of  grati-  tude  for  the  people  gathered,  the  food  they  are  about  to  eat.  He  mumbles,  &quot;Amen,&quot;  and  then  Angela  chimes  in,  &quot;But  no  tomatoes!&quot;  &quot;God  bless  tomatoes,&quot;  Lathrop  says,  still  praying.  BAKER  stands  with  Angela  at  the  end  of  the  evening  saying  good-  bye  to  their  guests.  As  is  traditional,  she  has  set  up  a  card  table  just  outside  the  door,  and  Baker  has  carried  jars  of  tomatoes  up  from  the  cellar  and  stacked  them  on  the  table.  Everyone,  even  the  children,  must  take  tomatoes  home.  There  are  complaints  about  the  weight  of  the  jars,  that  they  are  slick  and  hard  to  hold,  that  nobody  ever  wants  to  see  another  tomato.  &quot;Someday  you'll  be  glad  you  have  them,&quot;  Angela  says. "