 b"MY  father  always  liked  to  cut  a  figure,  so  it's  no  wonder  he  became  an  actor.  To  him,  life  was  a  magnificent  theatre  spectacle.  Stalin  reminded  him  of  the  villains  in  Shakespeare's  plays.  The  people  en-  dured  in  silence,  just  as  they  did  in  Boris  Godunov.&quot;  Vladivostok  was  a  theatrical  city  on  the  order  of  Odessa.  Foreign  sailors  brawled  in  the  port  restaurants.  You  might  hear  African  music  in  the  city  parks.  On  the  main  street,  the  Svetlanka,  dandies  strolled  about  wearing  poison-green  trousers.  There  were  caf\xc3\xa9s  where  people  discussed  the  latest  suicide  over  unrequited  love.  It  was  all  neither  comedy  nor  trag-  edy  but  drama.  In  the  end,  good  tri-  umphed  over  evil.  Base  impulses  were  counterbalanced  by  high  passions.  Happiness  and  grief  ran  in  the  same  harness.  The  central  character  would  stand  revealed  in  all  his  stature.  The  central  character  was  none  other  than  my  father  himself.  I  think  my  father  had  a  certain  real  talent.  With  no  ear  for  music,  he  sang  comic  songs.  As  a  clumsy  adolescent,  he  danced.  He  could  pass  himself  off  as  brave.  All  these  things  involve  per-  formance.  His  father,  Grandpa  Isaak,  was  a  theatrical  personality  himself.  A  for-  mer  guardsman,  athlete,  and  philan-  derer,  he  held  his  three  sons  in  some  contempt.  The  eldest  wrote  poetry;  my  fatheractedin  the  theatre.  The  most  down-to-earth  and  practical  turned  out  to  be  the  youngest,  Leopold,  and  at  eighteen  heran  away  from  home  for  good.  My  father  wrote  poetry,  too.  His  poems  were  always  about  the  death  wish.  I  take  this  as  evidence  of  his  overabundant  life  force.  Poetry  at-  tracted  him  as  one  of  the  elements  of  theatrical  performance.  He  fell  in  love  with  tennis  in  the  same  way:  tennis  players  wore  good-looking  sports  clothes  and  the  points  were  called  in  English.  Like  many  young  people  from  the  provinces,  my  father  and  his  brothers  were  drawn  to  the  great  cities.  Donat,  my  father,  went  off  to  Leningrad  to  perfect  his  dramatic  gifts.  Mikhail,  the  poet,  followed  after  him.  Swashbuck-  ling  Leopold  surfaced  in  4368696e61.  My  father  entered  the  theatre  insti-  tute  and  went  through  rather  quickly  as  a  representative  of  the  new  intelli-  gentsia.  He  became  a  director.  Every-  thing  was  going  well.  He  was  hired  by  the  Academic  Theatre.  He  worked  with  Vivyen,  Tolubeyev,  Cherkassov,  Adashevsky.  I've  seen  good  reviews  of  the  plays  he  directed.  Of  course,  at  just  about  the  same  period  there  were  plenty  of  bad  reviews  of  the  great  Meyerhold's  productions.  THEN  anxious  times  began.  My  parents'  friends  suddenly  began  disappearing.  My  mother  cursed  Stalin  for  what  was  happening.  My  father  judged  things  differently:  after  all,  he  re-  marked,  only  the  most  mediocre  people  were  disappearing.  And,  along  with  their  good  qualities,  each  one  of  them  had  grave  shortcomings.  In  each  of  them,  if  you  really  thought  about  it,  there  was  something  negative,  some-  thing  that  allowed  you  to  come  to  terms  with  the  loss.  When  the  police  took  away  the  man  who  lived  on  the  floor  below  us,  Lyabin,  thechoirmaster,  my  father  re-  minded  everyone  that  Lyabin  was  an  anti-Semite.  When  they  arrested  the  philologist  Roginski,  it  was  revealed  that  Roginski  drank.  Zatsepin,  my  fa-  ther's  co-worker  at  the  theatre,  was  not  tactful  in  his  dealings  with  wom-  en.  Sidelnikov,  the  makeup  man,  pre-  ferred  men  altogether.  And  Shapiro,  the  cinematographer,  conducted  him-  self  with  amazing  assurance  for  a  Jew.  All  this  was  to  say  that  a  drama  was  being  played  out  in  which  each  fatal  flaw  was  punished.  Then  Grandpa  Isaak  was  arrested  -just  like  that.  He  disappeared.  For  my  father,  it  was  completely  unex-  pected,  inasmuch  as  Grandpa  was  a  manifestly  good  man.  Of  course,  Grandpa  had  weaknesses,  too,  but  very  few.  Anyway,  the  faults  were  one  hundred  per  cent  private  in  nature.  For  instance,  he  ate  a  lot.  The  drama  was  turning  into  tragedy.  My  father  went  to  pieces.  He  suddenly  saw  that  death  lurked  some-  where  nearby,  that  the  central  charac-  ter  was  imperilled,  as  in  a  Shakespear-  ean  tragedy.  Then  my  father  himself  was  forced  to  leave  his  job  in  the  theatre.  As  he  should  have  been,  in  keeping  with  his  own  theories:  a  Jew,  with  a  father  who  had  been  shot,  with  abrother  living  abroad,  and  soon.  Father  began  writing  for  variety  shows.  He  wrote  light  sketches,  satiri-  cal  songs,  skits,  and  comic  routines.  He  became  a  professional  gagwriter  and  would  spend  days  on  end  thinking  up  jokes.  As  everyone  knows,  such  activity  drains  you  completely  of  high  spirits.  I  remeimber  one  of  his  routines  by  heart;  it  willstay  with  me  forever:  By  chance  I  saw  The  head  of  our  food  store;  This  manager's  strong  as  an  ox.  The  only  thing  is,  It's  now  ten  years  Since  our  store  has  carried  lox.  When  I  first  heard  these  crazy  lines,  I  asked  my  father  what  they  were  supposed  to  mean.  Father  got  angry  and  shouted  in  a  high,  tragic  voice,  &quot;You're  not  getting  the  point!  You  just  don't  have  any  sense  of  humor!&quot;  Then  he  got  to  thinking.  Went  off  by  himself  for  about  forty  minutes.  He  came  back  out  of  his  study  and  trium-  phantly  recited  his  new  version:  Our  food-store  manager  is  quite  a  guy,  Like  a  pickle  fresh  out  of  brine;  Only  it's  a  good  ten  years  Since  pickles  in  the  store  appeared.  &quot;So,  what  do  you  think?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;'They  sell  pickles  everywhere  you  look,&quot;  my  mother  said.  &quot;Well,  so  what?&quot;  &quot;So,  then,  it's  not  true  to  life.&quot;  &quot;What's  not  true  to  life?  What,  exactly,  is  not  true  to  life?&quot;  &quot;That  line  about  no  pickles  in  the  store.  It  would  make  more  sense  if  you  said  that  about  beef  salami.&quot;  My  father  clutched  his  hair  and  started  screaming,  &quot;What's  beef  sa-  lami  got  to  do  with  it'  Don't  talk  to  me  as  if  I  were  some  housewife!  I  have  no  interest  in  the  vulgar  details  of  your  existence!  Not  true  to  life!&quot;  Father  repeated  as  he  locked  the  door  to  his  study.  I  knew  he  was  writing  lyric  poems  in  there.  I  read  them  twenty  years  later.  Unfortunately,  I  didn't  much  like  them.  His  music-hall  lead-ins  were  better.  " b"For  example,  the  master  of  ceremonies  comes  out  and  announces,  &quot;Now  Rubina  Kalantaryan  will  sing  the  Mexican  song  'Crimson  Flower.&quot;  The  lyrics  go:  'Juanito  gave  me  a  crimson  flower.  &quot;I'm  a  poor  man,&quot;  said  Juanito,  &quot;and  cannot  give  you  a  neck-  lace  of  pearls.  So  at  least  take  from  me  this  flower.&quot;  &quot;Juanito,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;you've  given  me  something  more  val-  uable  than  a  pearl  necklace.  You  have  given  me  your  love!&quot;&quot;  And  so-  Rubina  Kalantaryan!  The  Mexican  song  'Crimson  Flower'!  The  song  will  be  performed  IN  RUSSIAN!&quot;  I  re-  member  people  laughing  in  the  the-  atre.  Father  was  a  romantic-looking  man.  His  face  had  an  imposing  quality,  even  though  that  wasn't  based  on  anything  and  was  a  little  overdone.  He  looked  youthful  and  fairly  elegant  and  yet  at  the  same  time  like  someone  out  of  &quot;The  Lower  Depths&quot;  flop-  house.  He  looked  like  a  cross  be-  tween  Pushkin  and  an  American  on  unemployment.  Naturally,  Father  drank  now  and  then-perhaps  no  more  than  others  did,  but  it  was  somehow  more  notice,  able.  In  a  word,  he  was  regarded  as  a  lush,  and  unjustly  so.  His  theatricality  shook  people  up  a  little  even  when  he  was  sober.  He  was  surrounded  by  an  assortment  of  shady  characters,  even  though  he  himself  was  an  entirely  honest  man.  And  in  matters  involving  money  he  was  absolutely  scrupulous.  I  was  always  impressed  by  his  toler-  ance  in  regard  to  other  people.  The  person  who  forced  him  out  of  his  job  in  the  theatre  was  someone  my  mother  hated  for  the  rest  of  her  life;  Father,  on  the  other  hand,  had  a  friendly  drink  with  him  a  month  later.  Father  was  a  purveyor  of  puns  and  jokes;  Mother  possessed  a  sense  of  hu-  mor.  'Two  more  dissimilar  people  could  hardly  exist,  that  much  is  clear.  Like  all  frivolous  men,  Father  was  a  kindhearted  person.  Mother  was  out-  spoken  and  sharp-tongued.  Her  excep-  tional  honesty  allowed  for  no  com-  promises.  Her  slightest  gesture  took  on  the  quality  of  self-sacrifice.  In  the  merciless  light  of  her  moral  purity,  my  father's  shortcomings  stood  out  cata-  strophically.  'They  separated  when  I  was  eight  years  old.  SO  my  father  lived  through  the  cult  ofpersonality,  through  war,  evac-  uation.  Then  divorce,  hackwork, women,  evenings  at  the  theatre  folk's  restaurant  ...  The  years  went  by.I  was  growing  up.  The  Great  Leader  was  debunked.  Grandpa's  name  was  &quot;rehabilitated,&quot;  as  they  say,  &quot;for  lack  of  corpus  delicti.&quot;  My  father  again  took  heart.  It  seemed  to  him  that  the  third  and  culminating  act  of  life's  drama  was  beginning,  and  now  good  would  fi-  nally  triumph.  One  might  even  say  it  already  had.  He  married  for  the  second  time.  A  nice  young  woman  technician  had  fallen  in  love  with  him.  She  may  have  taken  him  for  a  brilliant  eccentric.  That  kind  of  thing  sometimes  hap-  pens.  In  short,  things  were  getting  better.  The  play  had  regained  its  lost  momen-  tum.  The  long-breached  rules  of  clas-  sical  drama  were  being  restored.  And  then  what  happened?  Nothing  much.  The  country  was  ruled  by  a  bunch  of  nondescript,  facelessleaders.  A  depressing,  colorless  uniformity  held  sway  in  the  arts.  On  the  other  hand,  father  would  point  out,  people  were  not  being  shot,  or  even  impris-  oned.  Well,  they  were  sent  to  pris-  on,  yes,  but  not  so  often.  At  any  rate,  if  they  were  it  was  for  some  con-  crete  action,  or  at  least  for  some  impru-  dent  public  statement.  That  is,  for  a reason.  Not  the  way  things  used  to  be.  Nevertheless,  it  had  been  better  un-  der  Stalin.  Under  Stalin,  they  would  publish  books  and  then  shoot  the  au-  thors.  Now  they  don't  shoot  writers  and  they  don't  publish  books.  Jewish  theatres  weren't  being  closed  down,  there  simply  weren't  any.  The  heirs  of  Stalin  disappointed  my  father.  They  lacked  grandeur,  bril-  liance,  theatricality.  My  father  was  ready  to  accept  tyranny,  but  the  tyr-  anny  of  an  Oriental  despot,  colorful  and  rather  wild.  He  was  convinced  that  Stalin  had  been  buried  improperly.  He  should  never  have  been  buried  like  an  ordi-  nary  mortal.  It  wasn't  proper  to  write  about  his  illnesses,  about  a  stroke,  and  on  top  ofthat  to  publish  some  inappro-  priate  urinalysis.  They  should  have  just  announced  that  Stalin  had  disap-  peared,  or  more  simply  that  he  had  ascended.  And  everyone  would  have  believed  it.  Then  the  great  legend  could  have  continued.  In  what  way  was  Stalin  inferiorto  that  young  fel-  low  from  Nazareth  As  things  were  now,  all  youhad  was  a  bunch  of  dis-  contented,  overfed  types  lined  up  at  the  mausoleum.  Dressed-up  pensioners,  to  judge  by  the  looks  of  them.  Life  was  becoming  increasingly  lacklustre  and  monotonous.  Even  vil-  " b"lainy  took  on  a  kind  of  banal,  abject  quality.  Goodness  was  transformed  into  apathy.  People  would  say,  &quot;So-  and-So  is  a  good  person,  he  doesn't  inform  on  anyone.&quot;  I  don't  remember  my  father  being  interestedin  real  life.  What  interested  him  was  theatre.  Behind  the  riot  of  his  words,  actions,  and  thoughts  one  could  hardly  make  out  the  innocent,  imprac-  tical  soul.  A  conversation  he  once  had  with  a  writer  named  Markovsky  has  always  stayed  with  me.  It  seems  Markovsky  had  had  a  lot  to  drink  and  said,  &quot;Can  you  imagine,  Donat-I  informed  on  some  people.&quot;  Father  blew  up.  &quot;I'll  never  shake  your  hand  again!&quot;  Markovsky  hastened  to  clarify  what  he  had  said.  &quot;I  never  reported  good  people.  Only  bad  ones.&quot;  My  father  thought  about  this  for  a  moment  and  then  said,  &quot;Just  who  ap-  pointed  you  judge,  Arkady?  What  does  that  mean-bad  people,  good  people?  Why  should  that  be  decided  by  you,  of  all  people?  Who  are  you,  Jesus  Christ?&quot;  Markovsky  tried  to  explain  again.  &quot;Bad  people  are  the  ones  who  never  buy  dinner  for  their  friends  .  ..  people  who  drink  alone  .  .  .&quot;  &quot;Well,  that's  all  right,  then,&quot;  my  father  said.  In  those  years  he  was  practically  the  dean  of  a  music  school  where,  on  his  initiative,  students  could  specialize       in  variety-showperformance.  Those  were  the  students  he  taught  himself.  He  would  call  his  graduate  students  disciples,  in  the  manner  of  Pythagoras.  The  disciples  loved  him  for  his  demo-  cratic  ways.  But  some  rather  strange  things  went  on  at  that  school.  One  of  the  other  teachers  wrote  a  letter  of  denunciation,  charging  my  father  with  corrupting  the  students,  going  to  restaurants  with  them,  chasing  after  young  girls,  and  so  on.  The  denunciation  was  un-  signed.  Father  was  summoned  to  the  direc-  tor's  office.  The  calamitous  sheet  of  paper  was  shown  to  him.  Father  pulled  outa  magnifying  glass  and  asked,  &quot;Would  you  permit  me  to  look  atthis  closely?&quot;  Permission  was  granted.  He  bent  over  the  paper.  After  a  minute  he  be-  gan  muttering  quietly,  &quot;So  ...  Pres-  sure  on  the  capital  letters:  dark-haired.  ...  Space  between  'b'  and  hard  sign:  narrow  eyes....  An  unclosed  oval:  chain-smoker.  ...  'R'that  comes  out  looking  like  an  'e':  shoe  size  43.  ...  Good.  Short  flourish  under  the  'g':  mustache.  ...  Ragged  crossbar  in  the  capital'H&quot;:  broken  tooth.&quot;  My  father  stood  up  and  exclaimed  triumphantly,  &quot;This  was  written  by  Shurik  Boguslavski!&quot;  My  father's  longtime  hobby,  gra-  phology,  had  yielded  dazzling  results.  Boguslavski  confessed.  A  meeting  was  organized,  and  my  MEATBALL  .,.  T4bGe  father  stood  up  and  said,  &quot;Shurik!  Alexander  Gher-  manovich!  How  is  it  pos-  sible  that  you,a  member  ofthe  Party,  could  do  such  a  thing?&quot;  When  he  told  me  this  later,  I  said  to  my  father,  &quot;The  fact  that  Boguslav-  ski  is  a  Party  member  is  completely  in  keeping  with  his  writing  a  denunciation.  That's  just  what  is  logical  and  natural.&quot;  But  he  continued  to  fret.  &quot;A  member  of  the  Com-  munist  Party  ...a  figure  invested  with  the  trust  of  the  people  ..  .&quot;  My  father  had  within  him  a  deep  and  stubborn  lack  of  understanding  of  the  way  things  are.  ANWHILE,  events  took  arather  dim  turn.  Some  of  my  stories  were  published  in  the  West.  My  father's  daughter  by  his  second  mar-  riage  fell  in  love  with  a  young  compu-  ter  programmer  named  Lenya,  and  after  marrying  they  prepared  to  emi-  grate.  I  was  hesitating  between  [REDACTED]  and  prison.  As  a  crowning  touch,  my  father  was  again  forced  out  of  his  job.  &quot;So  that's  that,&quot;  Isaid.  &quot;We'll  leave  together.&quot;  &quot;To  go  where?&quot;  &quot;Anywhere  you  want.  Into  the  cap-  italist  jungles.&quot;  &quot;And  what  am  I  supposed  to  do  there?&quot;  &quot;Nothing.  Grow  old.&quot;  My  father  almost  blew  up.  Who  ever  heard  of  such  a  thing-leaving  the  stage  in  the  last  act'  Three  min-  utes  beforethe  final  curtain  and  the  applause?  What  could  I  tell  him?  That  we  weren't  onstage  butout  front  in  the  orchestra  seats?  That  the  lights  had  come  up  for  intermission,  which  might  now  drag  on  till  the  Second  Coming!?  My  wife  and  daughter  were  the  first  toleave.  Then  my  half  sister  and  Lenya  went,  and  after  them  my  mother,  the  dog,  and  I.  After  we  had  been  in  the  United  [REDACTED]  for  a  year,  my  father  came.  He  settled  in  New  Jersey.  He  plays  bingo.  Everything's  normal.  There  is  no  applause  to  wait  for,  from  anywhere."