 b"THE  oxygen  tube  makes  me  think  I  have  my  glasses  on.  The  defunct  TV  set  reflects  a  constellation  on  its  screen,  little  pin-  points  of  light  from  the  monitor  oppo-  site,  a  Cassiopeia  of  sorts.  Four  bags  are  suspended  from  the  ceiling.  They  have  some  connection  with  me  but  I  can't  make  it  out.  There  are  four  read-  ings.  Three  look  serious.  One  mean-  ingless.  I  am  not  sure  which  is  which.  There  is  a  huge  window  slatted  with  a  venetian  blind.  I  have  no  idea  what  is  behind  it.  A  gay  canvas  curtain,  bright  stripes,  protects  me  from  the  big  room.  Now  that  my  legs  are  shaking,  they  don't  itch  so  much.  In  the  next  cubicle  is  a  young  woman  with  a  respirator  that  changes  its  rhythm  and  sound  periodically.  The  two  nurses  talk  to  her.  The  pa-  tient  doesn't  answer  back.  At  least,  I  can't  hear  her.  HERE  were  three  policemen  in  the  patrol  car.  The  one  in  the  back  seat  asked  me  what  made  me  so  sure  I  was  having  a  heart  attack.  Very  polite,I  said  I  had  had  one  before  and     knew  what  it  was  like.  My  wife,  less  polite,  told  them  to  step  on  it.  Finally  they  turned  on  their  flashing  light  and  made  that  nasty  whooshing  noise  they  can  make  under  the  revolving  blue  and  drove  fast  down  [REDACTED]  to  112th  Street,  then  left  toward  the  cathedral,  another  sharp  left  at  the  broad  shallow  steps  with  the  scaffolding  climbing  up  one  end,  a  squealing  right,  and  into  the  emergency  bay.  A  roomful  of  people  waiting.  They  could  have  been  sitting  just  so  since  the  last  time  I  was  there.  And  the  time  before  that.  The  same  young  man  slumped  across  his  chair,  hand  over  eyes.  The  students  giggling.  The  bag  lady  staring  at  the  clock  on  the  wall.  The  man  with  the  bandaged  eye.  At  the  desk  they  were  in  no  hurry.  Rustled  some  papers.  Asked  questions.  Looked  at  me  with  narrowed  eyes.  Finally  they  let  us  in.  I  was  in  the  same  alcove  I  had  been  in  last  July  when  the  symptoms  they  thought  were  heart-related  in  the  end  signalled  cancer.  The  nurse  flapped  the  curtain  shut.  Out  there  it  was  all  bustle.  'The  sense  of  people  sicker,  more  needful  than  I.  After  a  long  wait  an  orderly  came  to  take  me  upstairs.  HEY  tell  me  that  I  was  dead  sometime  this  afternoon.  Not  all  that  dead.  With  a  little  effort-a  blow  to  the  chest,  a  few  electric  shocks,  a  team  of  six  working  at  it-they  were  able  to  bring  me  back  to  life.  Sort  of  dead.  This  is  the  way  I  recall  it.  A  green  slope:  not  slippery,  not  furry-like  sealskin-irregular,  but  not  bumpy,  slipping  but  not  grabbing  to  hold  on.  No  panic-nothing  disagreeable-the  green  very  bright,  like  new  grass.  Not  shale,  no  precipice.  No  one  on  the  bank  above  cheering  me  on.  Me  alone.  I  am  doing  asI  should.  Letting  go.  Relaxed.  Out  of  the  tunnel-not  into  it.  Lots  of  light  but  not  blinding.  Like  the  shoot-the-chutes  at  Riverview  Park  in  Des  Moines-one  downward  plunge  in  slow  motion,  the  same  quick  quiet  slide,  the  cushion  of  water,  the  delicious  descent.  The  friendly  green  blinks  out.  Then  comes  the  dull  rum-  ble,  the  low  marvelling  voices.  I  have  returned.  I  have  no  memory  of  saying  &quot;Doc-  tor,&quot;  although  apparently  I  did  when  I  began  to  slip,  as  though  I  wanted  someone  to  stop  me  from  taking  that  ride.  Not  terror  exactly,  but  still  not  quite  ready  to  go  all  the  way.  So  I  am  back.  Spinning.  Uncertain.  My  legs  shaking.  The  heart  was  obviously  jealous  of  all  the  attention  my  cancerous  stomach  had  been  getting.  The  surgery.  The  radiation.  Forty-five  hundred  rads  in  not  so  easy  doses.  Half  a  stomach.  Half  a  heart.  Eat  less-love  more.  A  new  admonition.  Falstaff  when  he  was  dying  babbled  of  green  fields.  IT  happened  on  Sunday  two  days  after  I  got  my  forty-five-hundredth  and  final  rad  and  after  a  night  of  slam-  ming  doors  to  celebrate  the  occasion:  forty  or  fifty  slams  punctuating  a  grim  fable  by  Sam  Shepard,  another  thirty  on  the  way  home  in  a  taxi  whose  door  wouldn't  close,  a  final  slam  at  the  apartment  to  lock  us  in.  At  church,  standing  for  hymns,  for  prayers,  the  Creed,  I  could  hardly  hold  my  overcoat  up.  During  Communion,  and  then  standing  in  lineto  greet  the  Dean  and  the  preacher  of  the  day,  I  thought  I'd  sink  under  my  own  weight.  Somehow  I  got  down  the  " b"steps,  up  [REDACTED],  across  College  Walk.  Eight  blocks.  Back  home  I  took  a  call  from  a  friend  who  asked  how  I  was  feeling  now  that  the  radiation  was  over.  I  told  her  I  was  just  fine-the  ultimate,  perhaps  the  penultimate-lie,  hung  up,  andhad  a  heart  attack.  Mary  Ellin  went  for  a  taxi-no  nonsense  about  waiting  an  hour  and  a  half  for  anambulance  this  time.  I  occupied  myself  with  the  nitroglycerin  bottle.  With  a  heroic  effort,  I  got  through  the  paper  seal  stretched  across  the  top,  dug  the  cotton  out,  and  then,slowly,  carefully,  shook  out  two  very  small  pills  to  lay  under  my  tongue.  There  were  no  cabs.  Mary  Ellin  found  the  patrol  car  with  its  three  skeptical  occupants  sipping  coffee  and  reading  the  News  parked  alongside  Chock  Full  O'Nuts  at  116th  and  [REDACTED].  I  REMEMBER  being  deadonce  before.  On  the  eve  of  Halloween  fifty-nine  years  ago.  A  sledding  acci-  dent.  A  boulder  that  had  been  at  the  bottom  of  the  hill  since  the  Pleistocene  waiting  for  me.Dr.  Langdon  brought  me  back.  No  blow  to  the  chest.  No  defibrillators.  W  hatever  the  magic  was  in  the  nineteen-twenties  administered  in  the  nick  of  time.  I  can  remember  Dr.  Langdon  sit-  ting  in  a  Morris  chair  by  a  bright  window  being  told,  &quot;This  is  the  boy  whose  life  you  saved.&quot;  Unable  to  re-  ply,  he  just  looked  at  me.  I  remember  my  cereal-bowl  haircut  and  being  pushed  forward  by  my  grateful  mother  -one  last  look.  The  life-giver  was  dying  himself.  There  were  the  same  voices  fifty-  nine  years  ago.  Above  me,  around  me.  The  circle  of  heads.  The  quiet  busy-  ness.  It  wasn't  me  fighting  for  my  life  or  giving  up.  It  was  everyone  out  there  making  the  effort,  pulling  me  back,  a  five-year-old  with  all  his  life  before  him.  They  did  the  same  for  Mother,  twenty  years  ago,  all  bent  over  her  bed.  Trying  but  not  succeeding.  The  nun  saying,  &quot;No.  Not  in  there.&quot;  But  I  had  already  seen-that  it  was  hope-  less.  It  was  what  they  must  have  done  for  my  brother  Eddie-too  late.  A  three-  year-old  with  me,  his  eight-year-old  brother,  in  charge.  A  tall  gray  Essex  coming  down  Forest  Avenue.  The  squealof  tires.  My  empty  hand.  The  thud.  Which  came  first?  A  sultry  [REDACTED]  afternoon  in  July.  Pulled  back  twice,  once  early,  once  late.  The  others  go-  ing  on.  Why?  A  DAY  of  drowsing.  After  the  CBS  Evening  News  I  went  to  sleep  in  earnest.  Drearmmt.  One  dream  from  7:30  p.m.  to5  a.m.  Three  inter-  ruptions  by  nurses.  Pills.  Injections.  Back  to  the  dream.  The  remarkable  thing  was  that  I  had  dreamed  the  same  dream  before.  The  sime  unusual  length,  the  same  details.  I  recognized  it  in  all  its  particulars,  and  yet,  awak-  ened,  I  retained  none  of  them.  Still,  I  plunged  back  into  it  following  each  interruption,  taking  it  up  exactly  where  I  left  off.  There  it  was-vast,  detached,  enjoyable-holding  my  in-  terest  firmly,  irretrievable  until  the  next  time.  I  don't  think  about  my  cancer  any-  more  except  to  think  I  am  not  think-  ing  about  it.  It  is  wiped  out.  Not  that  this  heart  attack  has  replaced  it.  It  hasn't.  I  just  don't  think  about  much  of  anything.  It  could  be  the  morphine.  The  night  sounds-the  pounding  to  clear  someone's  chest,  the  voices  at  the  desk  with  its  rank  of  monitors.  The  clanging  of  the  bell  when  a  new  pa-  tient  arrives  or  there  is  an  emergen-  cy  on  the  floor  requiring  team  effort.  An  intense  huddle  of  young  doctors  and  nurses.  A  week  ago  the  bells  were  clanging  and  the  huddle  was  for  me.  E  in  the  cubicles  facing  the  nurses'  station  are  the  \xc3\xa9lite,  the  alarmingly,  dangerously  sick.  Down  the  hall  beyond  the  monitors  are  the  convalescents,  shuffling  about  in  their  striped  robes  and  paper  slippers,  gray  in  the  face  but  mending.  My  world  for  a  week  now.  My  room.  Not  a  room  really,  since  one  wall  is  the  striped  curtain  strung  two  feet  from  the  ceiling  and  two  feet  short  of  the  floor.  In  the  center-me,  in  my  electric  bed.  Above  is  control  central  with  its  eternal  blue-green  wobbly  line.  The  " b"wobble  represents  me-alive.  A  small  flashing  yellow  light,  a  number  (my  pulse),  two  pale-yellow  squares,  mean-  ing  unknown,  and  a  whole  wall  of  buttons,  switches,  plugs,  etc.  Next  to  it,  toward  the  window,  some  sort  of  console  with  a  swinging  needle  is  plugged  into  a  red  wall  outlet  with  two  odd  gray-and-red,  vaguely  sexual  (doglike)  projections.  It  seems  inert.  At  least  the  needle  doesn't  move.  On  the  rolling  bed  table:  the  blue  device  with  the  tiny  Ping-Pong  ball  to  increase  my  breathing  capacity,  seven  plastic  cups,  the  ice-water  container,  a  box  of  tissues,  my  glasses  case,  and  a  stack  of  books.  At  the  top  Waugh's  &quot;Decline  and  Fall,&quot;  at  the  bottom  George  Herbert's  &quot;Poems,&quot;  some-  where  in  between  Merton's  &quot;Asian  Journals,&quot;  Olivia  Manning's  Balkan  trilogy,  a  couple  of  murder  mysteries.  The  blue  pills  are  beta  blockers,  the  pale-green  are  Cardizem,  the  bright-  orange  ones  are  for  chest  pain.  Plenty  of  nitroglycerin.  If  they  dropped  me  I'd  blow  the  place  up.  Mary  Ellin  tells  me  that  now  in  the  next  cubicle  an  enormously  fat  man  is  being  visited  by  his  enormously  fat  wife  and  three  enormously  fat  chil-  dren.  She  doesn't  know  how  they  all  fit  in.  HAVE  been  moved  beyond  the  monitors.  My  roommate  is  the  fat  man  from  the  adjacent  cubicle.  He  has  the  window  bed  and  the  color  TV  with  the  ballgame  on.  In  my  bathrobe  and  slippers  I  am  wandering  about,  staring  back  at  the  row  of  cubicles  where  I,  as  one  of  the  really  desperate  cases,  used  to  be.  I  can  see  a  bandaged  hand  in  one  alcove  which  seems  to  motion  to  me.  At  the  far  end  an  old  woman  sits  up  in  her  bed  noticing  no  one.  And  in  the  cubi-  cle  next  to  her  is  a  body  with  two  of  what  appear  to  be  knives  stuck  in  its  exposed  belly.  It  is  5  a.m.,  and  most,  if  not  all,  of  the  Cardiac  Care  Unit,  seems  to  be  asleep.  My  roommate  is  snoring  peacefully,  or  almost  peacefully,  an  oc-  casional  snarl  interrupting  the  regular  rhythm.  I  havebeen  lying  awake  since  four,  thinking.  I  hit  some  sort  of  barrier  Sunday  before  last,  head  on,  and  then,  after  the  green  sliding-the  fragmentation  -life  as  I  have  been  living  it  resumed,      but  with  a  difference.  And  now  it  was  Ash  Wednesday,  and  I  was  being  wheeled  to  chapel  and  what  seemed  to  be  the  certainty  of  tears  during  the  Our  Father-nothing  more  familiar,  nothing  stranger-and  then  the  chap-  lain  making  the  smudge  in  the  middle  of  my  forehead,  and  returning  me  to  quarters.  THE  fat  man  has  put  on  a  bright-  red  running  suit,  packed  his  duf-  felbag,  and  left  for  the  other  side  of  the  hospital.  Now  it  is  just  me,  my  flowers  and  the  TV  set,  and  a  clear  view  of  the  window.  Space-all  the  space  I  need.  BricHt-Biur  wheelchair  has  come  to  take  me  back  to  where  I  used  to  be  in  Scrymser  Pavilion  last  July.  And  last  September.  For  the  moment  there  is  no  one  in  the  sec-  ond  bed.  Next  door  the  loggia  with  its  summer  furniture,  its  big  windows  facing  east  and  west,  is  cold  and  de-  serted.  Don't  forget  this  scene.  Dr.  S.,  my  longtime  support,  is  standing  by  the  window-north-  streaming  light,  with  me  beside  him.  He  has  just  tapped  my  chest  and  looked  at  the  vein  that  runs  behind  my  ear  while  he  jabbed  the  side  of  his  hand  into  my  belly.  On  the  table  beside  the  bed  is  a  spectacular  pyramid  of  orchids  from  my  parents-in-law;  also  my  son  Irving's  water-  color,  a  rectangle  of  shimmering  rings.  On  the  sill  are  the  tulips  from  the  friend  who  called  me  after  church  onSunday  to  see  how  I  was  doing.  They  grow  taller,  more  translu-  cently  yellow  by  the  hour.  I  am  standing-  not  so  straight  as  I  might,  but  straight  enough-in  my  favor-  ite  dark-green  Sulka  wrapper,  beautifully  cut,  verysmart,  I  think,  not  knowing  that  the  right  elbow  is  out  and  my  pajamas  are  showing  through.  And  opposite  us-  " b"Dr.  S.,  me,  Mary  Ellin,  the  flowers,  the  window,  Ir-  ving's  visionary  rectangle  --are  the  four  young  doc-  tors:  two  men,  two  women,  half  my  age.  And  suddenly  Dr.  S.,  with  his  look  of  incredible  smoothness-not  quite  smooth,  smooth  with  a  moss  of  intelligence,  of  thoughtfulness-makes  a  tight  emphatic  gesture  in  my  direction  and  says  sim-  ply,  &quot;Dead.&quot;  But  he  wasn't  saying  &quot;This  was  dead  and  look  at  him  now  -poor  object  that  he  is.&quot;  I  have  at  least  made  an  effort,  shaved,  combed  my  hair,  put  on  slippers  and  pajamas  and  my  favorite  wrapper  for  this  encounter.  &quot;Dead,&quot;  Dr.  S.  says,  shooting  out  his  elegant,  precise  hand  with  its  spot-  less  nails.  Me  motionless  at  the  bottom  of  the  silky,  limpid  falls.  The  blue-  green  line  flat,  without  a  wobble.  &quot;Dead!&quot;  He  sweeps  us  all  in  with  an  expression  of  triumph  and  puzzlement:  Mary  Ellin  in  skirt  and  sweater,  the  young  doctors  in  their  smocks  with  their  clipboards  and  stethoscopes,  their  sensible  shoes.  &quot;Dead,&quot;  he  says.  Flat  and  emphatic.  And  he  means  only  &quot;Alive.&quot;  THE  day  before  he  died  Rabbi  Shneur  Zalman  asked  his  grand-  son,  &quot;Is  the  ceiling  still  there?&quot;  When  the  boy  said  nothing,  the  Rabbi  con-  tinued,  in  a  voice  quivering  with  joy,  &quot;Ican  see  no  ceiling  or  walls.  I  can  only  see  the  life  of  everything,  and  God  creating  everythlng  and  making  everything  live.&quot;  I  AM  alone  on  the  loggia  before  dawn.  The  table  trays  are  full  of  cigarette  butts  and  a  plastic  cup  or  two.  The  lamps  on  Morningside  Heights  are  on,  lighting  up  the  dirty  snow  and  leafless  trees.  Four  brutal  spots  shine  across  [REDACTED]  from  La-  Guardia.  Yankee  Stadium  is  dark,  but  you  can  see  the  pale  silhouette  of  Mount  Sinai,  a  shadow  behind  a  shadow,  down  the  park.  There  are  vagrant  lights  here  and  there  on  the  surface  of  [REDACTED]  and  on  the  river  beyond.  It  is  too  cold  to  open  the  French  doors  and  go  out  onto  the  porch  to  see  what  is  visible  farther  south  or  farther  north.  A  black  man  in  a  spotless  white  suit  and  shoes  comes  in,  lights  a  cigarette.  We  nod.  He  moves  on.  As  I  walk  through  this  wing  every-  thing  seems  twice  as  old  assix  months  ago,  comatose,  not  likely  to  awake.  Two  or  three  nurses  drift  down  the  empty  hall,  or  sit  quietly  reading  at  their  desks  in  the  blind  corridor  across  from  my  room.  Back  in  Cardiac  Care,  where  I  was  a  week  ago,  all  night  the  light  was  bright  and  sharp,  the  nurses  and  doc-  tors  young  and  busy,  the  machines  new,  vigilant.  Now  I  hear  an  old  woman  crying  over  and  over  again  somewhere  out  there  in  her  own  dark  room.  &quot;Please  put  it  down.&quot;  Again  and  again.  After  ten  minutes  the  screaming  subsides,  then  resumes,  more  subdued.  Some-  thing  out  ofcontrol,  unreachable  by  human  hand  or  chemical  substance  or  machine,  is  there  in  the  darkness,  now  laughing,  now  sobbing.  Merton  writes  about  the  marginal  man,  the  monk,  the  displaced  person,  the  prisoner,  those  who  live  in  the  presence  of  death  and  go  beyond  it  to  become  &quot;witnesses  to  life.&quot;  Why  does  he  leave  the  other  experts  off  his  list-  the  old,  the  desperately  ill?  In  my  room  it  is  already  six  o'clock,  and  after  a  series  of  hilarious,  high-  spirited  dreams,  involving  good-na-  tured,  affectionate  people  I've  never  seen  before,  I  wake  to  hear  the  little  man  who  now  occupies  the  other  bed  after  his  double  bypass  and  valve  trans-  plant-whose  wife  died  of  emphysema  nine  months  ago  (surgery  couldn't  help  her)-breathing  hard,  long  breaths.  I  am  lying-not  in  a  puddle  of  blood,  or  water,  or  a  dirt-lined  hole,  but  in  that  lukewarm  funny  soup  that  God  brewed  a  billion  years  ago-wait-  ing  to  be  born.  Again. "