 FROM  100  ELVIS  STORIES  ELCOME  to  Graceland  ‘;\/  City.  Graceland  City  is  a  sce-  nic  community  situated  among  the  beautiful  and  rugged  hills  of  [REDACTED]  only  several  hundred  miles  from  [REDACTED].  Graceland  City  is  hoping  to  be  the  new  capital  of  our  gracious  state  and  the  new  home  of  Elvis's  grave.  We  have  a  population  that  is  growing  every  day.  Located  in  the  main  section  of  town  is  theSuspi-  cious  Minds  Museum,  and  next  to  that  the  Courthouse  Rock.  All  roads  and  highways  extending  from  these  city  landmarks  merge  to  form  the  shape  of  a  guitar.  You  can  see  this  clearly  on  our  aerial-view  postcards  of  Graceland  City.  Rex  Elvis  Drexler  founded  Grace-  land  City  eight  years  ago.  He  con-  ceived  the  idea  the  first  and  onlytime  he  met  Elvis,  and  brought  his  dream  to  fruit  some  twenty  years  later.  Rex  had  been  down  on  his  luck  for  some  time  when  Elvis  pulled  over  to  the  side  of  the  road  in  Chattanooga.  He  invited  Rex  to  take  a  ridein  his  gold-flecked  Cadillac.  Rex  had  worn  holes  in  the  bottoms  of  his  shoes  and  was  eager  to  jump  inside.  After  hearing  the  story  of  how  Rex  lost  hisjob,his  wife,  and  his  trailer,  Elvis  gave  Rex  a  check  for  a  thousand  dol-  lars  and  the  keys  to  a  blue  Cadillac.  Rex  vowed  then  that  he  would  find  a  way  to  pay  tribute  to  the  King.  Jack  Elvis  Velch  is  the  mayor  of  Graceland  City.  He  was  elected  mayor  because  of  his  crusading  abilities.  One  of  the  first  things  he  accomplished  as  mayor  was  to  have  all  the  fire  hydrants  painted  to  look  like  Elvis.  At  first  he  was  going  to  make  them  all  be  of  Elvis  in  his  white  suit  and  cape,  but  majority  wins  here,  and  so  Elvis  is  wearing  a  different  outfit  on  each  hydrant.  trying  to  convince  the  bartenders  that  Elvis  had  been  his  friend.  My  mother  and  I  were  among  the  first  people  to  move  to  Graceland  City.  We  had  lived  in  Hedgerow,  [REDACTED],  all  our  lives  but,  like  the  rest  of  the  Gracelanders,  never  really  felt  at  home  until  we  settled  here.  It  was  especially  beautiful  that  first  winter,  all  of  us  working  hard-homesteading,  so  to  speak-and  then  meeting  over  at  the  Viva  Las  Vegas  around  beer  time  and  swapping  stories.  Mother  would  tell  the  story  of  how  I  had  amazed  the  doctors  in  the  delivery  room  by  saying  &quot;Elvis&quot;  as  soon  as  I  was  born  and  how  she  attributes  this  to  the  fact  that  all  the  while  I  was  inside  her  she  would  wrap  little  headphones  around  her  belly  and  play  me  Elvis  records.  Sher-  if  Roland  Elvis  Trubo  would  tell  sto-  ries  about  the  time  he  worked  for  the  King.  He  said  he  was  in  charge  of  Popsicles  and  Fudgsicles.  It  was  his  job  to  make  sure  that  there  were  al-  ways  enough  and  that  they  were  the  red-dot  brand  and  that  they  were  cold  enough.  Nothing  made  Elvis  madder  than  to  find  little  crystals  on  a  Pop  or  Fudgsicle,  and  one  night  the  Sheriff  got  fired  because  he  brought  Elvis  a  Popsicle  that  had  melted  and  been  refrozen.  There  were  many  more  sto-  ries  that  year  at  the  Viva  L.V.,  but  then  times  began  to  change.  S  was  natural  in  the  course  of  set-  tling,  we  all  tended  to  divide  and  separate.  No  one  seemed  to  mind  until  it  became  obvious  that  privilege  was  starting  to  prevail  in  some  areas  and  prejudice  in  others.  Take,  forinstance,  the  families  that  believe  Elvis  is  still  alive.  They  migrated  to  the  north  sec-  tion  of  town,  which  is  lush  and  Jack  also  goes  to  [REDACTED]  M@  green,  with  rolling  hills  and  regularly  with  Elvis  amendments  [FN  fresh-water  streams.  Most  Elvis-  and  sends  designs  to  the  Trea-  sury  Department  for  the  new  Elvis  currency  we  all  would  like  to  see  cir-  culated.  [REDACTED]  Elvis  Oldsley  lives  at  Graceland  Jr.  He  is  a  millionaire.  [REDACTED]  himself  has  given  many  Cadillacs  and  some  money  away.  He  also  donated  a  warehouse  to  the  teen-  agers  in  town  so  they  would  have  a  place  to  dance  and  play  Pretend  Elvis  on  weekends.  [REDACTED]  is  loved  and  respected  by  all  in  Graceland  City,  but  he  says  that  before  he  moved  here  he  was  a  pitiful  sight,  driving  from  town  to  town,  ordering  whiskey  from  Elvis  commemorative  bottles,  crying  and  still-lives  people  are  professionals,  with  big  houses  and  bigger  yards;  they  say  their  belief  that  Elvis  never  died  gives  them  strength  and  power  beyond  that  of  most,  and  that  anyone  willing  to  turn  themselves  over  to  the  Elvis  eternal  shall  also  reap  the  joys  and  re-  wards.  In  the  south  section  of  Grace-  landCity  are  the  families  who  have  seen  visions  of  Elvis  or  been  ESP'd  by  him.  These  are  the  business  men  and  women  of  the  community.  They  say  that  when  Elvis  comes  to  them  he  also  gives  them  advice  on  deals  and  fu-  tures.  The  south  section  of  town  is  overbuilt  with  red  brick  houses  and  lots  of  wrought  iron,  and  on  many  a  moonlit  night  eerie  wails  and  moans  can  be  heard  coming  from  the  porches  of  these  houses,  although  the  north-  siders  say  this  is  nonsense.  There  is  quite  a  bit  of  tension  between  the  north  and  the  south,  the  two  of  them  seeing  Elvis  in  such  different  ways.  They  celebrate  different  holidays,  and  the  northerners  don't  even  acknowledge  the  day  Elvis  died-they  still  go  to  work  and  everything.  There  are  the  families  still  driv-  ing  the  Cadillacs  Elvis  gave  them-  they  live  on  Elvis  East.  It's  simple  on  the  east  side,  but  you  have  to  put  your  shades  on  when  you  walk  down  one  of  their  streets,  because  the  shine  from  those  Cadillacs  can  blind.  Over  in  the  boondocks  are  the  families  who  worked  for  or  served  Elvis  at  one  time  or  another.  These  people  are  the  wait-  resses,  janitors,  and  clerks  of  the  town  and  are  generally  referred  to  as  the  &quot;trackers,&quot;  since  they  live  by  the  rail-  road  tracks.  And,  of  course,  there  is  the  part  of  town  that  is  most  beautiful  -Lakeside,  with  its  old  elm  trees,  its  ponds  and  lakes  all  stocked  with  fish,  ducks,  and  swans.  Here  arethe  homes  that  ramble,  the  homes  lived  in  by  the  children  of  Elvis  and  their  parents.  These  children  all  have  horses  and  miniature  electric  cars  they  drive  around  on  the  streets.  The  finest  school  is  also  in  Lakeside.  Ruby  Priscilla  Loos  was  the  first  one  to  bring  up  the  education  issue.  Because  little  Ruby  Lisa  Marie  Loos  is  musically  gifted,  she  was  invited  to  attendthe  School  for  the  Children  of  Elvis,  in  Lakeside.  But  she  is  being  shunned  by  the  other  students  and  some  of  the  teachers,  because  the  Looses  are  Elvis  Easters.  On  the  play-  ground  little  Ruby  is  taunted  con-  stantly  by  her  schoolmates  chanting  &quot;Who's  your  daddy?  It's  a  Caddy!&quot;  Then  the  other  day  Haywood  Elvis  Hayward  went  to  the  Roustabout,  which  is  south  of  town,  to  buy  some  feed  for  his  livestock,  and  Mister  Elvis  O'Cleef  refused  to  sell  him  any.  Mis-  ter  said  it  was  because  his  Ouija  Elvis  Board  had  told  him  not  to  sell  to  the  trackers,  but  everyone  knows  the  real  reason.  It's  because  Mister's  son,  [REDACTED]  Elvis  O'Cleef,  wants  to  marry  Wanda  Lisa  Marie  Hayward,  Haywood's  stepdaughter.  Most  people  in  town  aren't  too  terrible  toward  trackers,  but  none  of  them  want  their  kids  to  end  up  marrying  us.  Well,  I  suppose  you  would  have  guessed  it  sooner  or  later-it  was  I  who  robbed  [REDACTED]  O'Cleef  of  his  someday  prominent  position  in  Graceland  City.  His  father  says  there  is  no  way  to  hide  the  shame  and  disgrace  that  will  come  from  [REDACTED]'s  union  with  a  person  whose  stepfather  merely  cleaned  Elvis's  firearms.  My  mother  always  told  me  the  greatest  glory  was  in  being  able  to  serve  the  King,  and  [REDACTED]  says  that's  probably  true.  He  says  his  father  only  cares  about  money  and  ghosts.  [REDACTED]  wants  us  to  leave  Graceland  City  for  good.  He  says  living  here  now  isn't  any  different  from  living  any-  where  else.  But  tonight  there's  a  town  meeting  over  at  the  old  Viva  Las  Ve-  gas,  and  I've  asked  [REDACTED]  to  go  with  me,  because  I  don't  want  to  say  good-  bye  to  Graceland  City.  I'm  going  to  remind  everyone  what  brought  us  here  together  in  the  first  place-that  in  the  beginning  there  was  no  north,  south,  east,  orLakeside,  and  it  didn't  matter  how  or  why  you  loved  Elvis,  only  that  you  did.     