 b"(&quot;DALLAS  UPDATE:  FOR  A  WHILE  RECENTLY,  IT  SEEMED  POSSIBLE  THAT  JOCK  EWING,  FAMILY  PATRIARCH,  PRESUMED  DEAD  IN  A  SOUTH  AMERICAN  PLANE  CRASH,  WAS  ALIVE  AND  BACK  AT  SOUTH  FORK) SCENE: TWO MEN, ONE AND Second  One,  sit  facing  a  light  source  upstage.  They  sit  silently  for  several  minutes,  watching  the  light  source,  and  then  One  speaks.  OnE:  Jock  is  back.  Srconp  Onz:  I  don't  believe  it.  I  don't  believe  that's  Jock  at  all.  Why  should  I  believe  it?  What  proof  do  we  have?  Look  at  what's  been  going  on  with  these  so-called  Dali  prints  people  are  hawking  by  phone.  Not  real,  not  genuine;  just  inwardly  contorted  peo-  ple,  one  a  beautiful  woman  in  her  thirties,  I  grant  you,  with  perfectly  lovely  brown  hair,  down  to  her  shoul-  ders,  but  they  can  be  the  worst  kind,  and  the  man  is  not  curatorial  quality,  and  they  are  sitting,  just  aes  we  are  sitting,  only  instead  of  being  com-  pletely  passive,  utterly  and  totally  re-  ceptive  passive  receivers  of  the  culture,  they  are  making  phone  cells,  hundreds  and  thousands  of  phone  calls  to  doc-  tors,  lawyers,  dentists,  responsible  pro-  fessional  people,  with  more  than  enough  money,  and  what  are  they  do-  ing?  They  are  selling  phony  Deli  prints.  Here  he  is  now.  Doesn't  he  look  like  Jock?  I  think  he  does.  SeEconp  OnE:  He  doesn't  look  any-  thing  like  Jock.  It's  more  like  ajoke  than  like  Jock.  Look  how  little  effort  they've  made.  He's  just  a  forgery,  a  cheap  fake.  One:  Of  course  he's  changed,  be-  cause  he's  suffered. Suffered?  Of  course  he's  suffered!  Is  it  anything  to  what  I  go  through?  No!No,  it's  not.  (Telephone  rings.)  Srconp  (enswering):  Umm,  umm,  yes-s-s.  How  much  in  value?  Certificate  of  authenticity?  Exchange  it  anytime  in  first  sixty  months?  &quot;Gala  Under  Stress,&quot;  one  of  three  hundred  personallysupervised  by  the  art-  ist.  .  ..  I  see.  I'll  put  you  on  hold.  One:  You're  such  a  sucker.  SEconp  One:  I'll  believe  anything!  OnE:  Jock  is  back.  Seconp  OnE:  I  just  won't  swallow  that.  One:  I  tell  you  what.  Why  don't  I  let  you  buy  my  collection  of  hand-  marked  facings  by  world-renowned  artist  Marc  Chagall-the  much  cov-  eted  &quot;Subway  Life&quot;  series?  I'll  hold  SCENE:  T  wo  men,  One  and  them  in  my  vault,  and  you  can  watch  them  rise  in  value.  Srconp  Yes  ...no  ...I  don't  know.  One  (hits  Second  One  a  blow):  Be  still.  He's  with  Miss  Ellie  now.  (They  watch  the  light  source.  Then  all  at  once  there  is  a  big  burst  of  light.  Second  One  is  thrown  out  from  his  seat  onto  the  floor,  where  he  curls  up  into  a  whimpering  mass  of  fear.  One,  on  the  other  hand,  rises  from  his  seat.  Now  he  is  dressed  in  faultless  evening  attire.)  Srconm  OnE:  What  happened,  One?  OnE:  Something  enormous.  I  be-  gan  to  see  that  I  control  the  light  source  with  my  mind.  I  began  to  think  about  the  enormous  responsibility  this  puts  on  me  as  a  thinker,  and  then  I  realized  that  while  it  would  be  inter-  esting  and  amusing  to  have  Jock  Ewing  come  back  from  the  dead,  it  would  be  much  more  interesting,  and  much  the  better  thing  for  our  Ameri-  can  society,  if  he  came  back  as  JOCK  WHITNEY.  Seconp  One:  Oh,  One,  why  didn't  I  think  of  that?  One:  I'm  sure  you  remember  Jock  at  &quot;Deerlands,&quot;  the  Whitney  property  in  the  Adirondacks?  I'm  sure  you  re-  member  the  fascinating  way  he  was  dressed?  I  wonder  if  you  remember     33  him  dressed  in  his  little  shooting  gear?  SEconip  OnE:  Of  course!  One:  If  Jock  were  to  come  back  as  Jock  Whitney,  I  am  sure  that  Miss  Ellie  would  recognize  him  from  his  pictures  and  welcome  the  chance  to  take  a  step  up,  socially.  Miss  Ellie  is  only  human,  after  all,  as  she's  proved  time  and  time  again.  SEconip  OnE:  Time  and  time  again!  OnE:  Jock  might  ask  her  to  do  something  about  that  maddening  voice  of  hers.  ...  Seconp  OnE:  Of  course!  One:  And  he  would  firmly  but  po-  litely  order  that  every  stick  offurni-  ture  be  taken  from  the  house  and  burned.  Seconp  OnE:  It  sounds  so  violent!  One:  It  will  be  perceived  as  liberat-  ing.  I've  had  a  dream.  SEconp  OnE:  Oh,  tell  me  about  it,  One!  One:  I  dreamt  that  Pam  dreamt  of  an  entirely  new  and  different  level  of  sophistication  at  South  Fork.  I  don't  know  if  you  were  ever  at  &quot;Greentree,&quot;  or  with  the  Whitneys  at  their  place  on  Fishers  Island,  but  guests  were  given  luxurious  presents.  Clothes  in  their  own  size-cashmere  pullovers,  for  in-  stance,  and  crisp  linen  dresses.  Srconp  OnE:  It  must  have  been  wonderful.  One:  It  was,  Second  One.  Far  more  wonderful  than  anything  you  can  ever  know-except,  perhaps,  through  this  dream  of  Pam's.  Srconp  OnzE:  What  about  money  and  greed?  OnE:  Money  will  be  handled  by  competent  professionals  working  for  the  family.  Surplus  funds  (and  there  will  be  vast  surplus  funds)  will  be  used  to  subsidize  a  revitalized  Herald  Trib-  une.  Seconip  OnE:  Pam  dreamt  that?  OnE:  No,  Second  One,  I  dreamt  that.  That  is  a  fact.  Srconp  Ong  (kumbly):  What  about  me?  OnE:  No  more  cheap  prints  for  you,  S.0.  Why  not  act  as  my  junior  part-  ner?  I'll  let  you  sleep  in  my  bed  when  I'm  not  in  it,  and  guarantee  you  a  weekend  in  Turin  every  year  for  the  rest  of  your  life,  with  museum  admis-  sions  included.  How  about  it?  Srconp  OnE:  Is  this  some  sort  of  time-sharing  scam?  OnE:  Yes,  S.0.,  but  it's  the  top  of  the  line.  Srconp  One:  That's  what  I  was  hoping. "