 b"WHEN  Michael's  mother  said  her  three  nieces  could  have  been  hotel  girls,  she  didn't  mean  anything  cheap.  Quite  the  oppo-  site.  In  Roanoke  there  was  a  set  of  families  who  shunned  the  outlying  country  clubs  and  made  do  with  the  city's  grand  old  hotel.  Their  coming-  out  parties  were  held  there.  Their  early  dating  and  finest  evenings  were  in  its  elegant  dining  room,  among  the  marble  columns  of  its  panelled  recep-  tion  hall,  and  in  its  underground  cock-  tail  bar.  Michael's  motherand  his  Aunt  Ailene  had  been  presented  at  the  hotel  in  the  same  season.  When  their  wed-  dings  came-Ailene's  to  Uncle  Eddie  nine  years  before  Michael's  moth-  er's-the  receptions  had  been  held  in  the  same  familiar  room.  But  long  before  his  mother  married  she  had  lost  herbrother  Eddie  to  a  small  farm  in  a  forsaken  northern  corner  of  the  state.  And  one  reason  he'd  given  for  remov-  ing  himself  and  Ailene  to  that  wilder-  ness  was  precisely  to  escape  the  society  that  still  circled  the  old  hotel-a  soci-  FARM  ety  in  which  his  sister  had  been  an  eligible  beauty  for  too  long.  A  renunciation.  His  mother  took  it  hard  that  Eddie  should  attack  her  just  for  taking  her  time,  waiting  for  the  right  man,  and  using  the  hotel's  ele-  gant  cover-its  salon,  bar,  and  ball-  room.  Still,  they  kept  in  touch.  As  Michael  came  to  understand  it,  his  mother  could  forgive  Eddie's  boorish  reclusion  if  he  could  forgive  her  long  dalliance.  When  she  married  a  cotton  salesman  from  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  the  dalliance  became  moot,  but  Eddie  con-  tinued  selfishly  secluding  his  wife  and  daughters,  who  were  losing  tone  on  the  banks  of  a  northern  river.  Michael's  mother  had  visited  often,  perhaps  with  a  rescue  in  mind.  She  had  seen  for  herself.  Flies  and  mosqui-  toes  with  free  flight  over  an  un-  screened  porch.  Dark  water  and  de-  tritus  in  the  ice  trays.  Ailene  fighting  for  the  girls'  grammar  against  the  in-  fluence  of  a  hired  man  and  his  son.  Unsuitable  clothes.  Long  hippie  skirts  on  the  children  when  they  were  play-  ing  in  the  fields,  and  jeans  when  they should  have  been  in  something  nice  for  the  evening.  Her  brother  had  something  to  prove.  He  shaved  his  head,  and  wore  black  pajamas  in  the  fields.  According  to  her,  he  came  ignorant  to  corn  and  machinery,  thinking  high  intelligence  could  get  him  through.  Actually,  he  lived  at  the  mercy  of  swinging-door  help,  though  some  coincidence  of  weather  and  the  grain  markets  had  brought  him  an  early  profit.  Uncle  Eddie,  according  to  Mi-  chael's  mother,  had  been  an  easy,  irreverent  scholar.  The  Latin  prize  in  his  high  school.  At  the  university,  classical  studies,  in  which,  she  said,  he  was  doing  beautifully  when  he  dumped  them  for  psychology.  As  if  he  could  have  sustained  interest  long  enough  to  become  a  head  doctor.  Eddie,  she  maintained,  could  never  settle.  A  won-  der  he'd  gotten  Ailene,  a  hotel  girl,  to  marry  him  and  accept  the  up-country  horrors.  With  her  censure  Michael's  mother  was  creating  the  legend  of  afamily  pioneer.  A  forecast  of  a  badend  for  brains  in  a  barnyard  was  just  her  way  of  saying,  &quot;My  brother  could  have  been  anything.  Never  mind  that  he's  chosen  to  go  nowhere  and  be  noth-  ing.&quot;  If  shehadn't  respected  him,  why  so  many  visits  to  the  farm  before  she  was  married?  And  afterward,  why  had  she  sooften  left  Michael,  her  only  child,  to  the  care  of  Eddie  and  his  family?  EARS  later,  Michael  could  still  remember  hearing  the  exciting  news:  &quot;Can  you  believe  it?  Eddie's  turned  the  place  on  the  Potomac  into  a  game  farm.&quot;  Even  more  exciting,  Michael's  mother  and  father,  needing  private  time  again  for  the  long  quarrel  their  marriage  had  become,  were  send-  ing  him  up  for  the  summer.  Eight  years  old,  he  was  being  passed  along  to  Eddie  and  Aunt  Ailene.  And  to  his  three  older  cousins,  [REDACTED],  Annalee,  and  Grace.  Wild  girls  of  the  north,  in  his  mother's  estimation-the  ones  he  couldn't  wait  to  see.  Michael  knew  he  shouldn't  have  shown  such  delight  to  his  parents.  But  everything  was  turning  out  perfectly.  At  Easter  he  had  seen  the  redbuds  and  dogwoods  making  little  chapels  of  color  in  the  dark  woods.  And  his  teacher  had  squeezed  his  arm  gently  and  promised  to  promote  him  to  the  third  grade.  Then  the  odd  and  wonderful  report  " b"that  his  uncle's  farm  -the  house,  the  woods  behind,  the  sloping  meadow  down  to  the  wide  bottomland-had  been  turned  over  to  the  pleasure  of  a  game.  He  wondered  if  his  cous-  ins  would  teach  him  Monopoly.  Awkward  to  learn  on  arrival  that  there  were  no  plans  for  checkers  in  the  parlor  or  badminton  in  the  fields;  that  his  uncle  was  raising  ducks  for  hunters.     HAT  summer,  Michael  had  been  put  on  the  bus  in  Roanoke  and  sent  up  the  valley  in  ajacket  and  tie  to  Winchester.  The  whole  Mason  family  came  to  collect  him  at  the  depot.  He  sat  in  the  very  back  of  their  station  wagon,  and  the  girls  kept  turning  intheir  seat  to  fuss  over  him  and  pro-  test  against  the  inches  he'd  grown  during  the  winter.  The  sisters  had  always  been  eager  for  his  visits.  He'd  been  told  that  when  he  was  a  toddler,  the  big  one,  [REDACTED],  had  put  him  in  a  carriage  and  pushed  him  up  and  down  the  long  cinder  drive.  For  a  season  he  was  her  doll.  She  showed  him  off  to  anyone  who  would  listen  to  outrageous  matronly  chatter:  &quot;A  hard  labor  with  this  one.  I  don't  really  know  if  I  want  another.&quot;  She  was  twelve  then  and  quite  theatri-  cal,  with  corkscrew  curls,  pretty  red  springs  that  seemed  to  connect  her  bouncy  head  to  her  shoulders.  [REDACTED]  had  changed.  She  looked  at  Michael  as  if  a  judgment  had  been  made  about  him,  not  entirely  favor-  able,  and  her  full  attention  was  going  to  be  impossible.  Michael  noticed  that  her  nose  had  gotten  larger,  and  she  was  saying  &quot;unbearable&quot;  about  each  thing  that  displeased  her.  The  second  sister,  Annalee,  was  tugging  on  his  silly  tie,  holding  his  gaze  while  she  made  fun  of  his  grown-  man  outfit.  Annalee  was  plump,  alert  for  fun,  with  green  eyes  that  she  al-  ready  knew  how  to  promote  with  a  green  scarf.  &quot;If  you  get  scared  in  the  attic,'  Annalee  told  him,  &quot;you  can sleep  in  my  room.&quot;  She  talked  about  a  blacksnake  skin  in  the  attic  room  until  Aunt  Ailene  told  her  to  be  quiet.  The  youngest,  Grace,  silent  up  to  then,  asked  him  suddenly  in  a  remark-  able,  deep  voice,  &quot;Do  you  know  how  old  I  am?&quot;  He  was  startled,  as  if  quizzed  by  a  bullfrog  with  spider  legs.  He  didn't  care  to  guess,  unaware  that  the  challenge  in  her  little  whiskey  throat  was  only  the  armor  of  the  smallest,  and  that  the  proud  answer  &quot;'Ten  years  old&quot;  was  scorned  by  sisters  already  thirteen  and  eighteen.  Grace  reached  back  to  tousle  his  hair  as  An-  nalee  had  done  a  moment  before.  &quot;Leave  Michael  alone,&quot;  Aunt  Ailene  told  them,  and  she  said  to  Un-  cle  Eddie,  &quot;How  could  his  mother  send  him  all  that  way  by  himself?&quot;  He  remembered  the  shadow  falling  over  him  at  those  words,  and  he  re-  membered  crying  inconsolably  in  the  back  of  the  Masons'  car.  And  how,  when  they  got  to  the  farm,  Annalee  had  taken  him  for  a  tour  to  cheer  him.  &quot;We  haven't  stopped  growing  corn,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;We've  just  added  ducks.&quot;  The  duck  hatchery  was  theold  barn,  and  a  smooth  concrete  floor  had  been  poured  and  rough  boards  nailed  up  for  interior  walls.  On  one  side,  where  the  floor  was  covered  with  saw-  dust,  hundreds  of  baby  ducks  crowded  under  steel  hovers,  keeping  warm.  Across  the  room  a  great  wooden  cabi-  net  hummed  like  a  refrigerator.  &quot;It's  not  cold  in  there,&quot;  Annalee  told  him.  Inside,  a  large  drum  filled  with  eggs  in  wire  baskets  turned  almost  as  slowly  as  the  hand  of  a  clock.  &quot;I'm  forbidden  to  do  this,&quot;  Annalee  said,  opening  a  panel  and  reaching  in  for  an  egg.  She  moved  to  a  row  of  switches  and  suddenly  the  only  light  in  the  barn  was  coming  from  a  little  hole  next  to  her.  She  held  the  egg  up  to  the  beam,  showing  him  a  small  dark  place  inside.  &quot;That's  blood,&quot;  Annalee  said,  &quot;little  rivers  of  blood.&quot;  &quot;Annalee!  Are  you  in  there?&quot;  The  lights  came  onand  her  father  was  standing  across  the  floor.  Annalee  was  sent  to  the  house  and  Michael's  tour  of  the  hatchery  was  completed  by  Uncle  Eddie,  who  took  him  into  the  penned  areas  with  wire  partitions,  where  hundreds  of  mallards  were  sep-  arated  according  to  age.  The  oldest,  his  uncle  explained,  were  down  on  the  river  waiting  for  the  dinner  bell.  This  was  going  to  be  Michael's  daily  chore,  " b"ringing  the  big  iron  bell  each  evening,  watching  the  ducks  fly  home  over  the  trees  to  the  protein  pellets  waiting  for  them  in  their  wire  shelters.  HEN  the  hunters  came  that  summer,  Michael  was  forbidden  to  go  outside.  From  his  attic  window  he  would  hear  his  uncle's  voice  calling  from  the  release  ramp  beside  the  pens  and,  moments  later,  the  answering  re-  ports  of  shotguns  from  the  meadow  below  the  woods,  Alone,  there  was  time  to  consider  the  mysteries  of  the  farm:  why  Uncle  Eddie's  black  pajamas  went  into  a  sep-  arate  hamper  and  why  he  did  his  own  laundry;  why,  each  morning,  Aunt  Ailene  made  her  girls  drink  a  mea-  sured  cup  of  grapefruit  juice;  why  the  surviving  ducks  flew  home  in  the  eve-  nings  only  to  be  shot  at  another  day.  Big  cousin  [REDACTED]  was  locking  her  door  for  hours  at  a  time.  When  she  considered  Michael,  she  was  apt  to  speakabout  him,  not  to  him.  About  the  &quot;unbearable  situation&quot;  in  Mi-  chael's  home  in  Roanoke.  &quot;Never  mind  her,&quot;  Aunt  Ailene  said.  &quot;She's  going  down  to  the  university  in  Sep-  tember.  She  has  reading  to  do.  She's  worried  about  her  skin.&quot;  Annalee  became  his  summer  friend,  treating  his  homesickness  with  hand-in-hand  tripsto  a  creek  in  the  woods.  Together  they  took  off  their  clothes  and  waded  into  the  water.  Before  he  went  home  to  Roanoke,  Annalee  gave  him  stationery  with  envelopes  ad-  dressed  to  her.  His  mother  came  for  him  at  the  end  of  August  and  was  freshly  appalled  by  conditions  and  her  cold  greeting  by  the  girls.  &quot;What  did  you  do  all  sum-  mer?&quot;  she  asked  him.  &quot;I  went  swimming.&quot;  Alarmed,  she  recalled  that  she'd  never  packed  his  bathing  suit.  At  home,  Michael  thought  of  An-  nalee  standing  next  to  him  in  the  creek,  and  could  not  write,  too  ashamed  of  his  handwriting  and  the  meagreness  of  the  news  he  was  able  to  spell.  He  supposed  he'd  see  her  the  next  year.  But  his  mother  wouldn't  talk  about  another  trip.  She  didn't  like  what  was  happening  tohis  cousins.  Something  had  come  over  them-of  all  things,  an  up-country  snobbery.  &quot;'The  Masons  have  had  enough  of  you  for  a  while,&quot;  she  said.  The  next  spring,  when  Aunt  Ailene  wrote  to  ask  which  week  he'd  be  com-  ing,  his  mother  was  adamant.  She  took  him  visiting  with  her  to  friends  in  Lynchburg  and  Staunton.  He  remem-  bered  his  humiliation  in  both  cities,  being  made  to  stand  and  recite  three  verses  from  &quot;Hiawatha.&quot;  Very  much  on  display,  the  only  prize  of  her  marriage.  MICHAEL\xe2\x80\x99S  mother  kept  the  mem-  ory  of  his  cousins  alive  with  lament  and  denunciation.  &quot;Coming  to  no  good,&quot;  she  assured  him.  He  wished  he  could  be  with  them  on  their  way  to  this  bad  end.  There  were  brief  visits  to  the  Potomac  farm,  each  one  unsatis-  factory.  Years  passing,  but  neverwith-  out  reference  to  his  cousins.  &quot;That  was  the  year  [REDACTED]  matured  so  sud-  denly.&quot;  Or  &quot;That  was  the  year  An-  nalee  wasn't  pretty.&quot;  Michael  was  fourteen  before  the  Masons  were  allowed  to  have  him  for  another  season.  He  was  still  anxious  to  go,  though  there  was  summer  sport  ahead  of  him  in  his  own  city.  And  a  door  to  watch  on  his  block  where  a  young  lady  went  in  and  out.  Aunt  Ailene  had  almost  begged  for  him.  They  needed  a  steady  young  man  was  the  way  she  put  it.  Someone  to  give  Eddie  and  the  girls  a  hand,  since  the  last  help  had  run  off.  And  something  to  reestablish  her  connec-  tion  with  Roanoke.  On  no  condition,  Michael's  moth-  " b"er  said,  could  he  be  al-  lowed  to  handle  a  gun.  With  that  solemn  con-  tract  he  was  allowed  up  thevalley  again  on  the  Greyhound.  He  travelled  with  the  old  memory  of  Annalee  be-  side  him  in  the  water,  wondering  if  there  would  be  more  secret  swimming.  His  aunt  and  Grace  delighted  in  the  enor-  mous  changes  in  his  ap-  pearance.  So  tall!  And  the  wonderful,  naughty  hair,  as  long  astheir own. His  uncle  seemed  pleased  to  see  him.  Not  Annalee.  She  was  polite,  distant,  betraying  him  as  [REDACTED]  had  before  her,  preoccupied  with  things  that  couldn't  be  shared  by  a  young  boy  cousin.  He  arrived  in  short  sleeves,  biceps  for  Annalee,  but  it  was  lithe  Grace  who  ran  her  hands  down  his  arms  and  gave  him  the  big  hug.  Passed  down  again  by  the  sisters,  like  old  clothes.  &quot;[REDACTED]  isn't  even  here,&quot;  Grace  said,  when  they  were  all  in  thecar  driving  home.  Shehad  the  same  deep  voice  that  cracked  when  she  hurried  it.  &quot;[REDACTED]  is  taking  work  in  Char-  lottesville  for  the  summer,&quot;  Aunt  Ailene  saidquickly.  &quot;A  little  Roanoke  camouflage,&quot;  Uncle  Eddie  said.  &quot;Be  quiet,&quot;  Aunt  Ailene  told  him.  &quot;What  do  you  know  about  Roanoke  society?  You  never  entered  it.&quot;  Uncle  Eddie  turned  around  at  the  wheel  and  announced  to  everyone,  &quot;You  don't  enter  society.  You're  born  into  it.&quot;  Grace  leaned  over  to  whisper  in  Michael's  ear,  &quot;[REDACTED]'s  living  with  her  boyfriend  from  college,  and  she  hasn't  even  had  her  party  yet.&quot;  IXTEEN,  Grace  was  a  power  on  the  farm,  giving  crisp  orders,  even  to  Annalee.  The  hatchery  was  in  full  production.  Ducks  were  being  sold  to  other  farms  and  wholesalers.  Grace  could  run  the  whole  thing  herself,  she  told  Michael,  pleased  to  think  she  was  in  charge  of  eight  thousand  eggs.  Michaelwatched  attentively  as  she hurried  from  task  to  task,  sweating  through  her  T-shirts,  cursing  incom-  petence.  &quot;We  have  to  teach  them  to  fly,&quot;  she  said,  like  a  goddess.  He  didn't  be-  lieve  it  was  possible.  Then  he  and  Grace  spent  hours  forcing  one  young  mallard  after  another  up  a  ramp  from  which  he  could  either  plop  to  earth  or  spread  his  wings  and  glide.  In  time  each  bird  raced  its  wings,  gained  altitude  through  an  opening  in  the  trees,  and  glided  down  over  meadow  and  cornfields  to  the  river.  That  summer,  while  the  gunmen  waited,  ready  in  their  meadow  blinds,  Michael  worked  the  release  gate  with  Grace,  who  called  encouragement  to  the  ducks  as  they  took  off.  &quot;Fly  high,  beauties!&quot;  Grace  said  the  drakes'  white  neck  rings  were  their  charms  against  buckshot.  Obedient,  Michael  allowed  her  to  take  his  arm  and  hurry  him  along  from  one  job  to  the  next.  And  from  time  to  time  Uncle  Eddie  would  show  up,  taking  them  by  surprise.  To  see  how  they  were  treating  the  eggs.  Or  how  they  were  treating  each  other.  Michael  had  been  staying  in  the  attic  again.  Old  enough  now  to  think  of  the  house  as  a  network  of  exciting  bedrooms,  he  was  directly  above  Geor-  gia's  empty  chamber,  which  she  did  not  want  used  or  explored  in  her  ab-  sence.  Next  to  that  was  the  master  bedroom,  from  which  Michael  could  hear  the  muffled  voices  of  his  aunt  and  uncle  in  the  dark.  At  the  end  of  the  hall,  from  a  room  shut  tight,  An-  nalee's  tape  machine  played  provoca-  tive  music  not  quite  low  enough  to  be  secret.  Grace  was  downstairs  in  a  tiny  room  off  the  kitchen-quarters  that  had  been  used  by  the  maid  of  a  previ-  ous  household.  After  the  family  turned  their  lights  out  there  was  no  telling  what  Grace  might  be  doing.  Through  the  attic  window  Michael  sometimes  saw  her  in  the  moonlight,  moving  around  the  duck  pens,  checking  her  flock,  or  walking  toward  the  river,  stargazing.  Aunt  Ailene  kept  the  door  to  her  room  open  at  night.  If  Michael  came  downstairs  to  usethe  bathroom,  she  would  call,  &quot;Is  that  you,  Michael?&quot;  or  &quot;Is  that  you,  Annalee?&quot;  Sometimes  she  called  all  their  names,  &quot;Annalee?  Michael?  Grace?&quot;  N  the  house  one  afternoon,  seek-  ing  relief  from  Grace's  energy  and  orders,  Michael  stole  a  beer  from  the  refrigerator,  and  was  gulping  it  " b"quickly  in  the  side  room  Uncle  Eddie  used  for  his  library.  A  small  gilt-edged  volume  on  the  shelf  caught  his  eye.  Catullus?  It  was  inscribed  to  Edward  Mason  II,  first  in  Latin.  Under  that,  in  ink  now  pale  blue,  a  line  his  uncle  must  have  written  to  himself,  &quot;At  last  the  poetry  gets  dirty.&quot;  Skipping  through  the  pages,  as  if  he  could  translate  and  find  out  ifit  was  true,  he  heard  his  uncle's  voice  behind  him:  &quot;Ifyou're  going  to  drink  beer,  pour  it  in  a  mug.&quot;  But  Eddie  was  more  concerned  with  the  effect  of  the  book,  which  he  took  from  Michael's  hand.  Replacing  it  on  the  shelf,  he  said,  &quot;Not  worth  a  glance.  Grace  is  looking  for  you.&quot;  Uncle  Eddie  moved  to  a  window  from  which  he  could  see  Grace  in  the  duck  pens.  His  forehead  againsta  pane,  he  began  to  speak  in  a  peculiar  voice.  &quot;Ifyou'rea  stranger,  anything  is  possible,  even  romance,  but  hospital-  ity  is  difficult.&quot;  Almost  mumbling,  he  added,  &quot;If  you're  family,  you're  wel-  come  in  the  bosom  forever.&quot;  Meditation  or  lecture.  Michael  couldn't  say  which.  &quot;Where  are  you,  Eddie?&quot;  Aunt  Ailene  was  coming  through  the  door.  &quot;What  are  you  telling  Michael?  What  is  his  mother  going  to  think?&quot;  Michael  left  them  arguing  about  whether  he  should  be  allowed  to  drink  beer,  and  what  his  mother  would  think  about  that.  And  for  the  rest  of  the  afternoon  he  moved  eggs  for  Grace,  even  obeyed  when  she  told  him  to  explain  what  was  going  on  in  Roa-  noke.  He  exaggerated.  Still,  there  had  been  shouting  asfar  back  as  he  could  remember,.  His  father  had  inherited  partof  asmall  railroad  with  mort-  gaged  equipment,  and  this  complicated  a  pending  divorce.  Lawyers  were  tak-  ing  years  deciding  how  to  divide  things,  how  to  divide  him.  His  parents  still  occupied  the  same  house,  living  in  separate  rooms,  each  maintaining  a  squatter's  right,  lest  a  move  jeopardize  legal  standing.  Con-  sidered  a  split  pair  by  the  Roanoke  crowd  who  danced  and  played  cards  together,  they  were  each  &quot;seeing  new  friends,&quot;  as  their  circle  put  it.  Even  careful  to  balance  infidelities.  &quot;Your  mother  was  a  long  time  get-  ting  married,  wasn't  she?&quot;  Grace  asked  him.  &quot;I  suppose  if  you  waited  that  long  you  could  expect  to  catcha  layabout.&quot;  &quot;He's  a  cotton  rep,&quot;  Michael  cor-  rected  her.  &quot;What's  that?&quot;  He  could  only  tell  her  what  he'd  heard  at  home:  &quot;A  manwho  spends  too  much  time  in  other  cities  asking  pansies  to  put  more  natural  fibres  in  the  clothes  they  design.&quot;  It  seemed  there  was  something  wrong  with  what  he'd  told  Grace  ear-  lier.  &quot;People  can  get  divorced,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;and  decidethe  otherthings  later.&quot;  Big  news,  late  arriving.  Why  hadn't  he  known  that?  &quot;Anyway,  your  mother  was  one  of  those  hotel  people,  wasn't  she?&quot;  &quot;So  was  yours,&quot;  Michael  said.  &quot;Yes,  but  she  didn't  use  upstairs  rooms.&quot;  " b"Struck  dumb,  for  the  first  time  he  con-  sidered  the  guest  rooms  of  the  old  hotel  as  something  more  than  the  sad  quarters  of  travellers.  He      watched  a  fertilized   egg  fall  to  the  floor. His  fault.  Grace's  head  turned  back  to  business.  After  a  while,  she  said,  &quot;You  know,  you're  getting  to  be  al-  most  as  old  asI  am.&quot;  A  two-year  gift  he  was  pleased  to  accept  as  he  watched  her  lashes  flutter  at  the  tips  of  her  long,  pale  bangs.  MONG  the  visit-  ing  hunters  there  was  much  talk  about  makes  and  values  of  shotguns,  chokes,  bores,  shot  patterns.  Though  Uncle  Eddie  had  his  own  shotgun,  it  hung  over  the  man-  tel  in  his  study  like  a  museum  piece.  He  shied  away  from  the  he-man  chitchat.  On  the  side  of  the  ducks,  he  was  more  in-  terested  in  the  hatching  and  nurtur-  ing.  Most  of  the  hunters  did  not  care  to  pluck  and  eat.  They  left  the  dead  with  Aunt  Ailene  with  best  wishes-gifts  of  the  mighty.  She  accepted  politely,  as  if  there  were  room  for  another  shot-  ridden  carcass  in  her  freezer.  One  weekend  a  party  of  huge,  happy  men  arrived-members  of  a  profes-  sional  football  team  down  from  New  Jersey  withshotguns  on  loan.  They  were  pointing  them  at  each  other,  tak-  ing  mock  aim,  saying  things  like  &quot;Bet  you're  glad  this  isn't  loaded.&quot;  They  set  off  for  the  blinds,  and  before  they  reached  the  meadow  one  of  the  guns  discharged.  A  hail  of  shot  fell  on  the  hatchery's  metal  roof.  Uncle  Eddie  ran  down  the  hill  after  the  men,  tore  up  their  check,  and  told  them  to  get  off  the  property.  They  came  up  the  path  shamefaced  and  silent.  But  back  in  their  van  they  spun  their  wheels  all  the  waydown  the  driveway.  As  Michael  watched,  his  uncle's  an-  ger  passed  quickly  into  rumination.  &quot;At  first,  the  egg  has  no  air  cell,&quot;  he  said  softly.  &quot;But  the  shell  is  porous,  moisture  escapes.  What  do  we  make  of   that? Dreaming  of  an  answer?  Look-  ing  around  and  seeing  that  his  nephew  had  been  listening,  he  turned  embar-  rassment  into  an  order.  &quot;Make  sure  the  breeder  flock's  getting  enough  cal-  cium.  We  don't  want  any  more  leakers.&quot;  &quot;f  'Nrorcia  is  too  quiet,&quot;  Aunt  Ailene  announced  when  the  summer  was  half  over.  Annalee  was  sent  down  to  visit  and  report  back  on  her  sister's  &quot;involvement.&quot;  But  An-  nalee  was  introduced  to  someone  else  in  Charlottesville  and  began  to  negoti-  ate  with  her  parents  for  time  of  her  own  there.  Aunt  Ailene's  &quot;Absolutely  not&quot;  was  undercut  by  Uncle  Eddie's  indecision,  and  the  visit  dragged  on.  After  a  week  of  long-distance  debate  the  girls  stopped  answering  their  phone.  &quot;The  two  of  them  are  useless  any-  way,&quot;&quot;  Grace  said.  &quot;So  what's  changed?  Michael  and  I  do  all  the  work.&quot;  &quot;So  why  is  Michael  still  in  the  at-  tic?&quot;  Uncle  Eddie  asked,  and  Aunt  Ailene  moved  his  things  down  to  An-  nalee's  room,  where  he  could  feel  &quot;more  like  real  family.&quot;  What  he  felt  was  one  floor  closer  to  Grace,  who  would  lean  against  him  on  the  way  from  house  to  barn  and  ask,  &quot;Where  would  I  be  without  you?&quot;  With  Annalee  gone,  it  was  that  much  easier  to  work  hard  for  Grace.  Standing  beside  her  at  the  incubator,  shifting  eggs  to  the  hatching  trays,  he  imitated  the  robot  action  of  her  long,  thin  arms,  still  trying  to  please  her  with  labor.  One  evening  on  the  way  up  to  the  house  she  asked  him,  &quot;What  would  we  do  if  my  parents  weren't  here?&quot;  &quot;I  suppose  we'd  work  justas  hard,&quot;  he  said,  hoping  he'd  guessed  right.  That  same  evening  his  mother  called  from  Roanoke  because  he  hadn't  written  a  single  line.  He  kept  telling  her,  &quot;No,  everything's  fine,&quot;  until  Aunt  Ailene  took  the  phone  away  from  him.  And  heheard  her  say,  &quot;They're  darling  together.  He's  de-  voted  to  her.&quot;  Grace  disappeared,  and  Michael  went  up  to  bed,  slowly  counting  the  steps  in  the  staircase,  the  way  he  did  at  home,  reluctant  to  leave  anyone  awake  behind  him.  Later,  he  was  doing  his  other  number  trick,  counting  the  deep  breaths  it  takes  to  reach  sleep,  when  " b" his  door  opened  and  Grace  came  tohis  bed.  &quot;This  can  only  happen  once,&quot;  she  said.  IN  the  morning,  right  in  front  of  her  mother,  Grace  asked  Michael  if  he'd  slept  well,  and  if  he  was  ready  to  make  ducks  walk  the  plank.  Aunt  Ailene  was  measuring  out  grapefruit  juice,  getting  them  off  to  another  healthy  day.  Grace  was  no  sooner  out  the  front  door  with  him  than  she  asked,  &quot;W  as  it  nice  for  you?',&quot;  moving  too  quickly  for  him,  from  deceit  to  pleasure.  He  couldn't  tell  her  there  had  been  noth-  ing  in  his  life  to  compare  it  to.  Somethinghadgone  wrong  the  night  before.  As  soon  as  Grace  had  left  his  room  she  had  not  seemed  beau-  tiful  anymore  but  an  ungainly  farm  girl  who  might  need  secrets  and  apolo-  gies.  Lying  in  bed,  he  had  begun  to  compare  her  face  unfavorably  with  [REDACTED]'s  and  Annalee's.  Grateful  for  her  pledge  &quot;Only  once,&quot;  he  fell  asleep.  Now  her  knobby  knees  were  sticking  through  holes  in  her  jeans.  With  sun-  burned  arms  and  neck  she  looked  her  usual  part  again-hired  help  living  in  maid's  quarters-the  way  he  was  used  to  her.  &quot;Don't  worry,&quot;  Grace  said.  They  were  hardly  out  of  sight  of  the  house   when  she  took  his  hand,  raised  it  to  her  small  breast,  and  told  him,  &quot;I'm  going  to  take  care  of  you.&quot;  While  they  taught  ducks  to  fly,  Grace  tried  to  convince  him  he  was  safe  with  her.  &quot;If  cousins  can't  help  each  other  into  the  world,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;who  can?&quot;  They  were  pushing  the  mallards  onto  the  ramp.  Each  time  theyputa  duck  on  at  the  bottom,  another  at  thetop  was  forced,  against  its  will,  into  the  air.  With  this  for  sport,  they  bet  on  the  birds;  which  would  fly  to  the  river,  and  which  would  have  totry  again.  At  supper  that  night,  Uncle  Eddie  asked  Michael  if  he  knew  why  the  lights  in  the  barn  were  kept  on  all  night,  every  night.  Michael  didn't  know.  &quot;Because  if  ducks  are  startled  in  the  dark,  they  stampede.  Grace  knows  that.  I'm  surprised  she  hasn't  told  you.&quot;  Before  the  meal  was  over,  his  uncle  had  another  pointed  question,  more  husbandry.  &quot;How  do  you  tell  their  sex  before  they  grow  up?&quot;  \xc2\xabStop  it,  Eddie,&quot;  Aunt  Ailene  said.  &quot;By  their  voices,&quot;  Uncle  Eddie  told  him,  leaning  forward  with  the  news.  &quot;The  hens  honk  and  the  drakes  belch.&quot;  Grace  had  left  the  table.  Later,  awake  in  his  bed,  Michael  was  surprised  at  how  quickly  his  plans  changed.  He  rose,  put  on  pants,  and  went  barefoot  from  his  room.  In  the  hall  he  felt  like  achild  playing  Red  Light,  Green  Light,  the  floor  squeak-  ing  &quot;Stop&quot;  at  each  small  advance.  It  took  him  several  minutes  to  reach  the  stairs.  On  the  ground  floor  he  went  straight  through  the  kitchen  corridor  to  Grace.  &quot;Why  only  once?&quot;  he  asked.  A  moment  later,  a  light  shoneunder  the  door  and  Aunt  Ailene  called,  &quot;What's  going  on  in  there?&quot;  NEXT  morning,  first  thing,  Aunt  Ailene  phoned  Michael's  mother,  who  was  starting  north  imme-  diately.  Grace  could  guess  what  his  mother  had  said:  &quot;When  I  think  they  could  have  been  hotel  girls.&quot;&quot;  Meaning  [REDACTED],  Annalee,  and  Grace.  There  was  no  counting  the  number  of  times  his  mother  had  said  it,  this  refrain  that  gently  mocked  her  own  life.  &quot;Never  mind,  young  lady.&quot;  Aunt  Ailene  was  stripping  all  the  beds,  do-  ing  the  white  laundry  with  angry  amounts  of  [REDACTED].  By  the  time  his  mother  came,  Geor-  gia  and  Annalee  were  on  their  way,  too,  answering  their  mother's  call  for  help.  They  arrived,  surprising  Michael  with  raised,  adult  eyebrows.  He  understood  his  aunt  was  making  the  house  respectable  again,  filling  the  rooms  with  legitimate  company.  The  older  sisters,  with  even  tans  and  nicely  made-up  faces,  had  become  a  team  with  their  own  agenda.  It  was  clear  they  thought  Grace  would  have  to  wait  a  long  time  for  honest  love.  As  Michael  packed,  he  could  hear  his  mother  downstairs  asking  some-  one,  &quot;What  can  you  expect  in  a  house  that  doesn't  even  have  television?&quot;  She  was  moving  through  the  ground-floor  rooms,  taking  inventory  of  the  house's  deficiencies,  And  the  next  minute  she  was  upstairs,  standing  arms  akimbo  in  his  doorway,  telling  Michael,  &quot;It's  going  to  take  a  long  time  to  live  this  down.&quot; "