 DIARY  OF  A  ANKIND'S  oldest  dream  has  M  become  my  reality:  I  can  fly.  This  morning,  running  after  a  five-dollar  bill  blowing  along  the  pavement,  I  simply  lifted  into  the  air.  What  profound  transformation  will  my  life  undergo?  Unfortunately,  the  five  turned  out  to  be  a  torn  page  from  Sunday's  fashion  supplement:  &quot;T'ra-  ditional  T'weeds:  The  Courtroom  Choice  for  Ex-City  Officials.&quot;  And  just  before  I  soared  skyward  I  stum-  bled  and  got  an  oil  stain  on  my  trou-  sers.     Testing  the  limits  of  my  astonishing  new  power,  I  flew  to  the  dry  cleaner's  to  pick  up  my  pants.  They  still  have  a  faint  stain  on  the  knee,  like  a  ghostly  silhouette  of  Stanley  Friedman.     My  first  flight  to  work  reveals  the  city  as  more  than  a  chaotic  pile  of  limestone  and  steel.  I  watch  enrap-  tured  as  streets  and  skyscrapers  orga-  nize  themselves  into  what  is  undeni-  ably  some  patternlike  shape!  City  scandals  undermine  morale  in  many  agencies,  even  here  at  the  Pools  and  Playgrounds  Planning  Board.  To  raise  our  spirits,  the  boss,  Mr.  Kauff-  mann,  posted  a  sign:  &quot;More  Tran  --Days  Wirrrout  a  Work-Stopr-  pmnNG  Frrony  Arrest.&quot;  As  he  up-  dated  the  count  to  eleven,  I  smiled,  delighted  thatin  a  mere  three  hours  I'd  be  flying  to  lunch.     I  can  cruise  comfortably  only  at  a  walking  pace.  With  effort  I  can  attain  running  speed,  but  just  for  short  bursts.  Fromnow  on,  only  light  beer.  If  I  could  sustain  higher  velocities,  that  would  change  everything.  Of  course,  rain  would  still  be  a  problem,  particularly  when  I'm  carrying  gro-  ceries:  those  plastic  bags  really  dig  into  your  hands.  What  was  wrong  with  plain  old  paper  bags?  Why  can't  things  stayas  they  are?  Ah-my  un-  precedented  aerial  gift  has  made  me  introspective.     Mr.  Anselmo,  my  landlord,  is  com-  plaining  about  my  coming  and  going  from  the  roof.  The  thumping  disturbs  the  top-floor  tenants  andI'm  causing  leaks  in  the  tarpaper.  Now  I'll  have  to  walk  to  that  parking  lot  near  the  piers.  It's  inconvenient,  but  what  can  I  do?  FLYING  MAN  To  take  off  from  the  ground,  I  need  to  run  about  a  block  and  a  half.  Well,  if  I  leave  fifteen  minutes  early  I  can  still  fly  to  work.     Windy  day.  Got  a  bit  airsick  during  the  commute,  so  I  didthe  last  half  by  subway.  Home.  In  the  mail  was  a  summons  to  jury  duty.  Threw  it  away.  After  all,  I  am  a  flying  man.     Mr.  Kauffmann  caught  me  doing  personal  work  at  the  office.  One  of  my  bench  designs.  This  one  has  armrests  shaped  like  a  sphinx  with  the  head  of  Bess  Myerson,  and  legs  with  the  trim  ankles  of  the  former  Miss  America.  Its  feet  are  shod  in  high-heel  pumps.  It's  the  best  yet  in  my  &quot;Under  a  Cloud&quot;  series.  Someday,  each  corner  of  Broad-  way,  from  Inwood  to  [REDACTED]  Park,  will  have  a  bench  honoring  a  former  Koch  official.  That'll  show  Kauff-  mann.  Besides,  once  the  indictments  are  handed  down  in  the  BenchTech  investigation  the  city  will  start  han-  dling  bench  designs  in-house,  maybe  from  our  office.     Flew  to  Rudmeyer's  for  those  deli-  cious  apple  muffins.  They  were  all  out,  so  I  had  blueberry.     Cruising  uptown,  I  was  surprised  to  see  so  many  rooftops  littered  with  old  refrigerators  crammed  with  review  copies  of  best-sellers,  eventually  to  be  sold  at  the  Strand,  I  suppose.  Even  in  our  throwaway  age,  recycling  thrives.  A  few  blocks  later  I  glanced  down  and  saw  a  crew  of  uniformed  firefight-  ers  hand-fitting  mosaic  tiles  on  the  rooftop  love  grotto  of  an  assistant  deputy  mayor.  On  city  time!  A  big  one  looked  up  and  hollered,  &quot;What  are     SEPTEMBER  21,  1987  you  looking  at,  creep?&quot;  I  hope  he  didn't  recognize  me.  Maybe  I  can  use  my  fantastic  avian  skill  to  nail  some  of  these  guys.     Out  flying  around.  Forgot  to  turn  on  phone  machine.  I  wonder  if  any-  body  good  called.     Flew  to  cash  machine  on  way  to  work.  It  was  out  of  order,  so  I  flew  to  another.  It  took  three  more  stops  be-  fore  I  finally  got  my  money.  I  couldn't  even  use  a  customer-service  phone  to  complain:  some  busted,  some  stolen.  I  shall  write  an  angry  letter.  My  fabu-  lous  ornithoid  prowess  makes  me  less  passive  in  the  face  of  institutional  au-  thority.  Then,  far  below  me,  near  the  Wil-  liamsburg  [REDACTED],  I  spotted  some  cops  napping  on  the  job.  With  their  lit-  tle  sleep  masks  in  place,  three  or  four  assistant  police  commissioners  dozed  in  hammocks  slung  between  squad  cars.  Sleazy!  Circled  untilI  felt  dizzy,  which  made  it  really  hard  to  take  notes.  I  dropped  my  notebook  on  a  guy!  It  just  grazed  his  shoulder,  but  he  was  furious.  I  gave  a  phony  name,  Chad-  wick  Lancaster,  but  you  could  tell  he  didn't  believe  me.  I  wish  I  could  think  faster.  As  I  flew  away,  he  gave  me  the  finger.  I  snapped  back,  &quot;Oh  yeah?  Same  to  you,  stupid!&quot;  Has  my  unbe-  lievable  supernormal  talent  taught  me  nothing?  &quot;Accidentally&quot;  dropped  a  half-gal-  lon  of  skim  milk  on  the  roof  of  a  taxi.  Then  I  bombed  a  limo  with  a  thirty-  five-ounce  jar  of  applesauce.  I  am  not  bound  by  the  laws  that  govern  ordi-  nary  mortals.  As  I  glided  home  after  work,  some  guy  clambered  onto  the  roof  of  a  Jews  for  Jesus  van  and  harangued  me  with  a  bullhorn.  He  asked  if  I'm  Jewish,  and  the  easiest  way  to  avoid  an  idiotic  conversation  was  to  say  no,  but  then  I  felt  guilty.  A  creature  of  the  skies,  I've  learned  to  observe  the  urban  ecology.  At  the  edge  of  a  vacant  lot  a  pack  of  feral  hamsters  reduces  a  cat  to  its  skeleton  in  seconds.  Or  else  it  was  a  bunch  of  kids  in  Davy  Crockett  hats  stripping  a  car.  Above  eighty-five  feet  my  sense  of  THE  NEW  YORKER  scale  is  unreliable.  I've  got  to  get  one  of  those  auto-focus  cameras.     My  excursions  among  the  spires  lift  my  spirits,  reminding  me  that  nature  endures,  even  in  the  metropolis.  On  fire  escapes  and  in  window  boxes  the  first  vegetables  of  summer  are  ripen-  ing.  Say  what  you  will  about  bio-  engineering,  those  beach-ball  tomatoes  look  delicious,  although  if  one  fell  it  could  crush  a  Subaru.  Five  crime  sightings  today.  One  payoff,  three  kickbacks,  a  bribe.  The  new  telephoto  lens  is  bulky,  but  it  takes  a  great  picture.     If  I  had  a  way  to  carry  luggage,  I  could  fly  to  Fire  Island  for  the  week-  end.  An  in-flight  snack  would  be  good,  too.  Smoked  almonds.  And  some  kind  of  beverage.     When  the  infrared  photos  came  back  from  the  lab,  I  saw  that  Thurs-  day's  sighting  was  mot  a  bagman,  just  the  kid  from  the  deli  delivering  a  roast-beef  sandwich.  I'll  emend  the  logbook.     Got  really  tired  flying  to  work  to-  day,  so  I  snatched  a  ride  on  the  roof  of  a  bus.  Cost  to  me?  Zero.  Early  evening,  soared  over  Queens.  There  was  a  deb  party  in  Shea  Stadium.  A  bar  was  set  up  in  each  dugout;  buffet  tables  lined  the  base  paths;  heedless  teen  socialites  capered  on  the  pitcher's  mound.  But  I  thought  the  stadium  was  closed  all  week  for  re-  sodding.  Then  I  saw  a  borough  presi-  dent  trundling  a  wheelbarrow  full  of  cash  across  right  field,  out  beyond  the  410'  sign,  and  into  his  official  car.  I'm  going  to  rip  this  town  wide  open!  And  I  got  all  the  evidence  I  need  before  the  wide-angle  lens  fell  into  the  bullpen.     At  the  office  I  tripped  over  a  trash  can,  churning  up  records  of  Kauff-  mann's  involvement  in  a  crooked  fran-  chising  scheme  to  install  cigarette  vending  machines  atop  jungle  gyms  in  city  playgrounds  and  underwater  in  public  pools.  That's  it.  I'm  going  to  the  papers.     My  meeting  with  the  reporter  wasn't  all  I'd  hoped  for.  She  does  want  the  story,  but  she  can't  get  to  it  for  a  while.  Nextweek  she's  assigned  to  the  wicker  supplement.  And  after  that  she'll  be  filling  in  at  &quot;Buying  and  Owning.&quot;  A  social  disaster!  Had  a  big  date  with  Leslie,  a  new  designer  at  the  office.  I  whispered  &quot;Let  me  fly  you  to  the  stars  on  wings  of  love,&quot;  and  then  I  jerked  her  off  her  feet,  launched  us  toward  the  chandelier,  and  dropped  her  on  the  coffee  table.  That's  it.  I'm  giving  up  pie  altogether,  and  tomor-  row  I  start  working  out  with  weights.     No  Nautilus  machine  can  help  me  now:  my  powers  are  fading.  How  can  I  resume  ordinary  life  having  known  the  embrace  of  the  air?  I  am  desolate.     Awoke  with  odd  flickering  at  the  edge  of  my  field  of  vision.  Gradually  I  realized  what  was  happening:  I'm  de-  veloping  X-ray  eyes.  Already  I  can  nearly  see  through  a  sheet  of  newspa-  per.  This  will  irrevocably  rend  the  drab  fabric  of  my  life.  Kauffmann  resigned!  He  wants  to  spend  more  time  with  his  family  for  reasons  of  health  while  going  into  pri-  vate  consulting  at  a  major  university  to  do  the  teaching  he  loves.  Perhaps  I  misjudged  him.     False  alarm.  Just  a  malfunctioning  fluorescent  lamp.  Otherwise,  my  vision  is  what  it's  always  been:  O.K.  in  right  eye,  slightly  astigmatic  in  left.     No  mistake  this  time:  I  can  move  objects  with  the  force  of  my  will-  telekinetic  power.  So  far  I  can't  budge  anything  heavier  than  a  few  pounds,  and  my  range  is  restricted  to  about  four  feet,  but  still!  After  breakfast  I  slid  the  &quot;Sgt.  Pepper&quot;  C.D.  (Can  it  really  be  fifty  years?  Oh.  Twenty  years)  across  the  coffee  table.I  brace  for  the  unimaginable  metamorphosis  my  life  is  about  to  undergo.  May  I  use  my  new  power  wisely! 