 b"HOW  is  William  to  prove  to  H  Natasha  that  he  still  loves  her?  That's  the  problem  I'm  working  on,  mentally,  as  I  check  the  invoices  and  get  thebig  double-parked  trucks  from  the  warehouses  unloaded  and  deal  with  all  the  people  bringing  in  aluminum  cans  for  redemption.  Benny,  this  black  Housing  cop  who  had  ordered  a  hot  pastrami  on  rye  with  mustard  from  our  deli  and  then  had  to  rush  out  on  a  call,  is  now  eating  his  hot  pastrami  and  telling  me  about  this  woman  who  was  hanging  out  of  a  sixth-floor  window  over  on  Second  Avenue  where  he  and  his  partner  couldn't  get  at  her.  &quot;She  wouldn't  come  in,&quot;  Benny  says.  &quot;I  said,  go  ahead  and  fly,  Looney  Tunes.  I  shouldn't  have  said  that.  I  made  an  error.&quot;  I  understand  how  that  could  be.  This  woman  wanted  to  blend  her  head  with  Second  Avenue  and  mess  up  the  honor  of  the  Housing  Police,  probably  because  somebody  didn't  love  her  any-  more.  Mutilation,  actual  or  verbal,  is  usually  taken  as  an  earnest  of  sincere  interest  in  another  person.  Verbal  pre-  sentations,  with  William  and  Natasha,  are  no  good.  So  many  terrible  sen-  tences  drift  in  the  poisoned  air  between  them,  sentences  about  who  is  right  and  sentences  about  who  works  harder  and  sentences  about  money  and  even  sentences  about  physical  appearance-  the  most  ghastly  of  known  sentences.  That's  why  Natasha  bites,  I'm  con-  vinced  of  it.  She's  trying  to  say  some-  thing.  She  opens  her  mouth,  then  closes  it  (futility)  on  William's  arm  (sudden  eloquence).  I  like  them  both,  so  they  both  tell  me  about  these  incidents  and  I  ratio-  nalize  and  say,  well,  that's  not  so  terri-  ble,  maybe  she's  under  stress,  or  maybe  he's  under  stress.  I  neglect  to  mention  that  most  people  in  New  York  are  under  some  degree  of  stress  andfew  of  them,  to  my  knowledge,  bite  each  other.  People  always  like  to  hear  that  they're  under  stress,  makes  them  feel  better.  You  can  imagine  what  they'd  feel  if  they  were  told  they  weren't  under  stress.  Natasha  is  a  small  woman  with  dark  hair  and  a  serious,  concerned  face.  Good  teeth.  She  wears  trusty  Canal  Street-West  [REDACTED]  pants  and  shirts  and  is  maybe  twenty-six.  I  met  her  three  years  ago  when  she  came  over  to  my  little  cubicle  at  the  A.  &amp;  P.  at  Twelfth  Street  and  Seventh  to  cash  a  check,  one  that  William  had  signed.  Of  course  she  didn't  have  the  proper  [REDACTED],  since  she  wasn't  William.  But  she  was  so  embarrassed  that  I  decided  she  was  O.K.  &quot;He's  a  little  peculiar  about  money,&quot;  she  told  me,  and  I  was  embarrassed.  I  thought,  What's  with this  guy?  I  thought  he  was  probably  some  kind  of  monster,  in  a  minor  way.  Then  one  day  he  came  in  to  cash  a  check  himself.  &quot;Why  don't  you  put  your  wife  on  your  account?&quot;  I  asked  him.  &quot;I  cash  her  checks  because  I  know  her,  but  sometimes  I'm  not  here.  Also,  she  must  have  trouble  other  places.  I  mean,  I'm  not  telling  you  how  to  run  your  life.&quot;  William  blushed.  You  don't  see  that  much  blushing  at  A.  &amp;  P.  Twelfth  Street.  He  was  wearing  a  suit,  a  gray  Barneys  pin-striped  number,  and  had  obviously  just  come  from  work.  &quot;She  has  a  tendency  to  overspend,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It's  not  her  fault.  She  was  born  to  wealth  and  her  habits  never  left  her,  even  when  she  married  me.  When  we  had  a  joint  account  she  never  entered  the  checks  in  her  checkbook.  So  we  were  always  overdrawn  and  I  finally  closed  the  account  and  now  we  do  it  this  way.&quot;  When  Natasha  found  out  about  William's  affair  with  the  girl  at  the  office,  I  should  say  woman  at  the  of-  fice,  she  came  straight  to  me  and  told  me  everything.  &quot;It  was  at  the  office  picnic  in  Central  Park,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Everybody  was  playing  badminton,  O.K.?  In  bare  feet.  William  was  play-  ing  and  I  noticed  that  he  had  a  piece  of  silver  duct  tape  around  his  big  toe.  He  had  a  cut,  he  said.  William  uses  duct  tape  for  everything.  Our  place  is  practically  held  together  with  duct  tape.  And  then  later  on  I  noticed  that  this  rather  pretty  girl  was  playing  with  a  piece  of  duct  tape  on  her  ankle.  She'd  scraped  her  an-  kle.  And  that  told  me  the  story,  right  there.  I  confronted  him  with  it  and  he  admitted  it.  It  was  as  simple  as  that.&quot;  Well,  romance  is  not  unknown  at  the  A.  &amp;  P.  We  are  an  old  and  wise  organization  and  have  seen  much.  We  are  not  called  the  Great  Atlantic  and  Pacific  for  nothing,  we  contain  multitudes  and  some-  times  people  lock  gazes  across  the  frozen  rabbit  parts  and  the  balloon  goes  up,  figuratively  speaking.  I  counselled  forbearance.  &quot;Don't  come  down  too  hard  I  said.  &quot;Wil-     " b"liam  is  clearly  in  the  wrong  in  this  matter,  that  gives  you  a  certain  edge.  Don't  harangue  or  threaten  to  cry  and  weep.  Calm,  rational  understanding  is  your  mode.  Politically,  you're   way  out  in  front.  Act accordingly.&quot;  I  think  this  was  psy- chologically acute  advice.  It  was  the  best Jill  had  to  offer.  What  she  did  was,  she  bit  him in  the  shower.  He  was   in  the  shower,  he  told  me,  and  suddenly  therewas  this  horrible  pain  in  his  left  shoulder,  and  this  time  she  did  break  the  skin.  He  had  to  slug   her  on  the  hipbone  to  make  her  let  go.  &quot;It's the  only  time  I've  ever   hit  her,&quot;  he  said.  He  poured  Johnnie  Walker  over  the  wound  and  slapped  a  piece  of duct  tape  on  it  and  took  a  room  at  the  Mohawk Motor  Inn,  on  Tenth  Avenue.  William  hasnot  only  not  proved  to  Natasha  that  he  still  loves  her  but  has  alienated  her  still  further,  because  of  the  thing  with  Patricia,  whom  he's  not  seeing  anymore,  in  that  way.  Furthermore,  he's  been  in  the  Mohawk  Motor  Inn  for  a  week,  and  that  can  get  to  you.  Nothing  breaks  down  a  man  accustomed  toat  least  some  degree  of  domestic  felicity  than  a  week  at  a  Motor  Inn,  however  wel-  coming.  He  walks  over  in  the  morn-  ings  from  the  Mohawk  for  a  bagel  with  dilled  cream  cheese  and  tofind  out  if  Natasha's  been  around.  I  have  to  be,  and  have  been,  strictly  impartial.  &quot;She  was  in,&quot;  Isay.  &quot;She's  butterfly-  inga  leg  of  lamb  tonight.  Marinating  it  for  six  hours  in  soy  sauce  and  cham-  pagne.  I  don't  myself  think  the  cham-  pagne  is  a  good  idea  butshe  got  some  recipe  from  somewhere-&quot;  &quot;From  her  sister,&quot;  William  says.  &quot;Danni  spreads  champagne  on  hot-  dog  buns.  Rex,  what  do  you  think?&quot;  &quot;Go  home,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;Praise  the  lamb.&quot;  &quot;How  do  I  know  it  won't  bethe  spinal  cord  next?&quot;  &quot;Hard  to  get  to.  Probably  couldn't  even  dent  it.&quot; &quot;I  feel  like  I'm  married  to  some  kind  of  animal.&quot;  &quot;Our  animal  nature  is  part  of  us  and  we  are  part  of  it.&quot;  So  he  goes  back  to  their  apartment  on  Charles  Street  and  they  have  a  festive  evening  with  the  lamb  and  can-  dles.  They  go  to  bed  together  and  in  the  middle  of  the  night  she  bites  him  on  the  back  of  the  leg,  severing  a  tendon  just  above  the  knee.  A  real  gorilla  bite.  I  can't  understand  it.  She's  a  really  nice  woman,  and  pretty,  too.  &quot;You  can't  bite  your  way  through  life,&quot;  I  say  to  her.  She's  just  seen  William  in  his  semiprivate  room  at  St.  Vincent's.  &quot;'The  physical  therapist  says  there'll  be  a  slight  limp,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;Forever.  How  could  I  have  done  that?&quot;  &quot;Passion,  Iguess.  Feeling  run  ram-  pant.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Will  he  ever  speak  to  me  again?&quot;  &quot;What'd  he  say  at  the  hospital?&quot;  &quot;Said  the  food  was  lousy.&quot;  &quot;That's  a  beginning.&quot;  &quot;He  doesn't  feel  for  me  anymore.  I  know  it.&quot;     N  &quot;He  keeps  coming  back.  However  chewed  upon.  That's  got  to  prove  something.&quot;  &quot;I  guess.&quot;  DON'T  believe  that  we  are  what  we  do  although  many  thinkers  ar-  gue  otherwise.  I  believe  that  what  we  do  is,  very  often,  a  poor  approximation  of  what  we  are-an  imperfect  mani-  festation  of  a  much  better  totality.  Even  the  best  of  us  sometimes  bite  off,  as  it  were,  less  than  we  can  chew.  When  Natasha  bites  William  she's  saying  only  part  of  what  she  wants  to  say  to  him,  the  worst  part.  She  really  wants  to  say,  William!  Wake  up!  You  and  me,  William!  But  that  gets  lost  in  a  haze  of  pain,  his.  I'm  trying  to  help.  I  give  her  a  paper  bag  of  bagels  and  a  plastic  container  of  cream  cheese  with  shallots  to  take  to  him,  and  for  herself  an  A.  &amp;  P.  check-cashing  application  with  my  approval  already  initialled  in  the  upper  right-hand  corner.  I  pray  that  they  will  be  successful  together,  eventually.  Our  organization  stands  behind  them. "