 b"GEOFF  Parrish,  approaching  sixty,  had  long  enjoyed  an  un-  easy  dim  relationship  with  the  stars.  In  childhood,  when  one  assumes  the  world  to  have  been  elaborately  ar-  rayed  for  one's  own  benefit,  with  a  virtual  eternity  allowed  for  inspection  of  its  many  large  and  mysterious  parts,  he  had  taken  the  stars,  like  the  clouds  overhead,  for  granted;  his  mother  knew  the  Big  Dipper,  and  Orion,  and  on  a  summer  evening  might  point  out,  in  a  voice  of  unaccountable  excite,  ment,  [REDACTED]-a  white  shining  punc-  ture  in  the  blue  that  was  deepening  above  the  gory  sunset.  As  a  child,  for  a  moment  or  two  at  night,  he  might  become  aware,  as  a  skater  is  suddenly  aware  of  the  dark  water  he  skims  across,  of  the  speckled  heavens,  a  dust  of  distant  worlds,  between  the  massy  silhouettes  of  the  black  treetops.  But  in  his  back  yard,  where  such  revela-  tions  visited  him,  he  was  generally  intent  upon  catching  fireflies  or  feel-  ing  the  throb  of  his  breath  and  heart-  beat  as  he  ran,  late  for  his  bedtime,  toward  the  tall  lit  windows  of  the  house.  &quot;Wynken,  Blynken,  and  Nod,&quot;  il-  lustrated  by  Vernon  Grant,  had  been  one  of  the  big  thin  books,  smelling  like  the  oilcloth  on  the  kitchen  table,  that  his  mother  would  read  to  him  at  bed-  time,  and  somehow  it  seemed  to  be  taking  place  among  the  stars:  The  little  stars  were  the  herring  fish  That  lived  in  that  beautiful  sea  The  images  made  him  queasy;  they  were  whimsically  aimed  at  children,  yet  did  testify  to  a  vastness  of  activity  that  went  on  without  him,  all  night:  All  night  long  their  nets  they  threw  To  the  stars  in  the  twinkling  foam  Wynken  and  Blynken  turned  out  to  be  his,  the  listener's,  two  little  eyes,  and  Nod  his  little  head;  it  was  a  hid-  eous  thought,  like  two  eggs  and  a  cabbage  bouncing  around  in  this  glim-  mering  soup,  and  in  merciful  escape  from  the  unthinkable  he  let  himself  be  lulled  by  his  mother's  enclosing  voice  as  it  promised:  So  shut  your  eyes  while  Mother  sings  Of  wonderful  sights  that  be,  And  you  shall  see  the  beautiful  things  As  you  rock  in  the  misty  sea  High  school  and  college  brought  him  word  of  what  the  stars  really  were,  how  senselessly  large  and  distant  and  numerous,  but  such  intellectual  shocks  were  cushioned  by  the  distrac-  tions  of  coeducation-the  female  bod-  ies  with  their  soft  pale  heft,  their  pow-  dered  and  perfumed  auras,  their  fuzzy  sweaters  and  silken  blouses,  and  the  glimpses,  at  the  edges,  of  elastic  un-  derwear.  Why  do  girls  wear  skirts,  with  their  strange  nether  openness  and  vulnerability,  while  boys  get  to  wear  trousers?  And  why  do  girls  like  totalk  so  much,  and  giggle  at  each  other?  Such  questions,  and  courtship  and  marriage,  eclipsed  the  stars,  which  yet  seemed  to  hang  waiting  for  Geoff  to  get  to  know  them.  One  summer,  while  renting  a  seaside  place  with  a  long  deck,  he  had  purchased  a  pocket  guide  to  the  heavens  and  (with  difficulty,  for  the  blazing  points  strewn  across  the  black  dome  overhead  made  a  poor  match  with  the  little  diagrams  picked  out  by  flashlight)  taught  himself  the  summer  triangle  of  bright  stars,  Deneb  and  Altair  and  Vega,  and  a  few  prox-  imate  constellations-Andromeda's  flying  &quot;V,&quot;  and  cross-shaped  Cygnus,  and  boxy  little  Lyra,  and  Cepheus,  shaped  like  a  house  in  a  child's  draw-  ing.  In  these  decipherings-the  planks  of  the  deck  rough  beneath  his  bare  feet,  the  shingled  house  alive  with  lights  and  the  voices  of  his  wife  and  children-Parrish  felt  united  with  an-  cient  generations,  for  man  no  sooner  had  attained  erect  posture  than  he  be-  gan  to  try  to  unriddle  the  stars,  to  name  them  after  gods  and  animals,  and  then  to  construct  huge  rings  and  pyramids  of  stone  as  if  to  demonstrate  a  placatory  harmony  with  the  cycles  of  the  heavenly  machine.  Who  was  the  first  man-a  creature  scarcely  more  than  ape-who  realized  that  the  fro-  zen  spatter  above  turned  through  the " b"night  like  an  off-center  disk?  And  who  were  those  wakeful  wise  men  who  first  noticed  the  planets,  the  wanderers  keeping  their  own  slow  curving  paths  across  the  surface  of  this  disk?  The  stars  were  the  fathers  of  speculation,  of  philosophy.  Under  Geoff's  upward  gaze,  as  if  he  were  suspended  by  his  heels  above  an  abysmal  bowl,  they  seemed  to  sing,  to  scream  in  chorus.  In  actuality,  he  heard,  from  the  deck,  lonely  sounds-the  sea  breaking  on  a  distant  beach,  a  bell  buoy  rocking  out-  side  the  harbor,  crickets  droning  in  the  dry  grass.  He  would  become  dizzy,  feeling  upside  down.  His  neck  would  begin  to  hurt.  His  patience  and  his  sense  of  spatial  relations  were  limited,  and,  having  satisfied  himself  with  a  few  chronic  identifications,  or  having,  out  of  the  corner  of  his  eye,  seemed  to  see  a  meteor  fall,  he  would  leave  the  deck  to  go  back  into  the  house,  into  the  womanly  warmth,  the  electric  light.  And  then  the  summer  was  over,  the  heavens  mostly  unlearned,  and  a  new  season  of  constellations  sent  to  be-  wilder  the  eyes.  Decades  went  by  in  which  his  acquaintance  with  the  stars  failed  to  advance.  He  read  about  them  now  and  then  in  the  newspapers-  eclipses,  meteor  showers,  astronomical  discoveries  of  huge  vacancies  in  the  web  of  galaxies,  or  of  a  mysterious  giant  arc  millions  of  light-years  in  length.  Scanning  the  paper  oneday  while  his  wife  tried  to  make  breakfast  conversation,  he  noticed  a  small  arti-  cle,  with  an  illustration,  stating  that  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED]  were  to  undergo,  this  winter,  a  rare  conjunction.  That  evening,  in  spite  of  the  cold,  he  took  the  torn-out  illustration  into  his  side  yard,  and  there,  above  treetops  that  by  coincidence  closely  matched  the  schematic  ones  in  the  drawing,  shone  the  conjunction  just  as  dia-  grammed-[REDACTED]  bright  and  bluish,  [REDACTED]  smaller  and  red-tinged,  a  bit  lower  and  to  the  right.  He  had  studied  the  stars  but  had  not  knowingly  looked  at  a  planet  since  the  summer  evenings,  a  half  century  ago-could  it  be  that  long'-when  his  mother  would  dramatically  gesture  toward  [REDACTED].  As  he  gazed,  the  stars  surrounding  the  two  conjoined  planets  swarmed  into  his  vision,  more  and  more  as  he  looked,  as  if  he  were  film  in  a  develop-  ing  pan,  but  he  hadno  trouble  finding  the  two  planets  again,  their  close  pair-  ing  distinctive  as  a  signature.  The  redness  of  [REDACTED]  was  lodged  in  its  twinkle,  a  perhaps  hallucinatory  spark,  whereas  [REDACTED]'s  glow  appeared  cool     and  steady.  Geoff's  eyesight  had  dete-  riorated  over  the  years,  along  with  his  agility  and  potency-simple  causes,  once,  of  an  innocent  animal  pride.  Without  his  glasses,  near  things  blurred  and  far  ones  looked  double.  He  needed  a  telescope.  He  began  by  sug-  gesting  to  his  wife  that  she  might  want  to  get  him  one  for  Christmas.  &quot;Why  don't  you  get  it  for  your-  self?&quot;  Berenice  asked.  &quot;I  might  get  the  wrong  kind.&quot;  &quot;You're  as  much  an  expert  as  I  am,&quot;  he  told  her.  &quot;It's  like  everything  else-you  go  by  the  money.  The  more  it  costs,  the  better  it  probably  is.&quot;  &quot;It  would  feel  like  a  test  you're  setting  me.  I'd  be  scared  to  get  any  except  the  most  expensive,  and  then  you'll  say  I  spent  too  much  money.&quot;  He  wondered  if  this  was  just.  True,  everything  she  did  lately  seemed  to  him  slightly  excessive  or  insufficient,  a  bit  too  determined  and  rigid  or  else  irritatingly  casual  and  heedless;  yet  he  imagined  his  irritation  to  be  invisible  within  the  vast  context  of  their  de-  cades  together,  their  children  and  now  grandchildren,  their  ever-expanding  and  circumambient  troth.  They  had  met  at  college  and  married  in  a  burst  of  passion  while  she  was  still  a  junior  and  he  a  poor  graduate  student.  Aeons  later,  it  turned  out  that  she  had  bitterly  resented  trun-  cating  her  education  and  sitting  home  mired  in  preg-  nancyand  motherhood  while  he  paraded  off  in  a  business  suit  to  a  glamor-  ous  world  of  credit-card  lunches  and  smartly  dressed  young  female  lackeys.  Well,  he  could  not  help  feeling  in  response,  he  didn't  make  the  world,  and  he  didn't  ask  to  be  born  a  male,  with  a  male's  re-  sponsibilities  and  preroga-  tives.  Their  children  grew  and  went  away,  their  auto-  mobiles  became  foreign,  their  houses  increased  in  price  and  suburban  remove,  and  at  the  center  of  all  this  centrifugal  movement  the  cinder  of  her  resentment  remained,  paired  with  his  resentment  of  her  resent-  ment.  He  had  laid  his  life  at  her  feet,  and  all  she  cared  about  was  gender  politics.  She  went  on,  &quot;Everybody  says  how  fi-  " b"nancially  timid  women  are,  the  ones  that  aren't  extravagant,  but  look  at  the  figures:  your  firm  charges  two  hun-  dred  dollars  an  hour  for  your  time  and  mine  is  absolutely  worthless;  I  have  to  go  give  it  away  in  volunteer  work.&quot;  &quot;Or  else  stay  in  bed,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;while  I'm  having  a  great  time  fight-  ing  the  tunnel  traffic.&quot;  GEOFF  bought  himself  the  tele-  scope,  wrapping  it  and  putting  it  beneath  the  tree  with  a  card  saying  &quot;Love&quot;  from  Berenice.  The  children  and  the  grandchildren  were  impressed,  and  greedily  took  turns  with  it  spying  on  their  neighbors'  windows  and  bringing  closer  the  distant  skyscrapers  of  [REDACTED],  but  in  fact  it  was  notavery  expensive  telescope;his  wife's  uncer-  tainties  over  the  proper  price  to  pay  had  infected  him  and  made  him  cau-  tious.  Also,  the  very  expensive  ones  looked  too  complicated.  What  he  wanted  was  a  tube  that  he  would  look  into  at  one  end  and  that  would  deliver  reality,  enlarged,  at  the  other.  This  was  not  as  easy  as  he  had  hoped.  His  own  tremor  jiggled  the  image,  and  the  plastic  eyepiece  clicked  against  his  glasses.  A  boat  far  from  shore,  a  mere  hyphen  in  the  gray  water,  would  re-  veal,  in  sudden  focus,  amazing  detail  -railings,  and  a  pilothouse  that  needed  paint,  and  a  man  in  a  watch  cap  and  dark  slicker  standing  on  the  forward  deck  within  an  eerie  windless  silence,  an  eerie  ignorance  of  being  seen.  There  was  a  bubble  around  things  thus  captured,  a  hermetic  breathlessness  and  a  pressure  that  squeezed  the  perspective  flat.  On  a  clear  night  early  in  the  new  year  Geoff  took  the  tripod  and  the  telescope  outdoors,  and  set  it  up  on  the  snowy  driveway,  and  aimed  it  at  the  conjunction.  Through  even  this  weak  telescope  the  stars  multiplied  confus-  ingly;  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED],  though  obvi-  ous  to  his  naked  eye,  took  a  lot  of  calibrated  groping  to  center  in  the  lens.  Tremors,  not  just  his  own  but  those  of  invisible  events  within  the  transparent  atmosphere,  beset  the  planets.  [REDACTED],  at  the  maximum  en-  largement,  remained  disappointing-  no  canals,  no  red  deserts,  no  polar  ice  caps,  not  even  the  impression  of  a  sphere.  Just  a  stubborn  small  hole,  elu-  sively  ruddy,  in  space.  But  [REDACTED],  that  big  smear  of  pallor  nearby,  did,  unmistakably,  thrillingly,  resolve  into  a  disk,  a  world  calling  out  with  its  " b" solemn  white  roundness  across  the  deeps  of  space.  He  could  not  make  out  the  churning  stripes  or  the  big  oblong  spot  so  vivid  in  Voyager  photographs,  but  there  was  something  unexpected-  off  to  the  side,  four  bright  dots  in  a  curving  line,  a  kind  of  plume  lifted  upward,  to  the  left.  Could  these  be  the  famous  moons,  whose  observation  by  Galileo  marked  the  end  of  Ptolemaic  astronomy?  Geoff  would  not  have  ex-  pected  them  to  extend  so  far  out  from  the  body  of  the  mother  globe,  or  to  be  so  distinct,  and  organized  in  so  smooth  an  arc.  When  he  lifted  his  head  and  looked  with  the  naked  eye,  [REDACTED]  was  still  there  but  they  were  gone;  when  he  looked  again  through  the  telescope,  they  had  returned,  in  their  unexpected  pattern  and  vividness-a  small  school  of  the  herring  fish  that  lived  in  that  beautiful  sea.  His  face  and  fingers  and  feet  ached  with  the  cold;  tears  in  his  eyes  now  added  to  the  difficulties  of  vision.  He  took  his  equipment  back  into  the  house,  keen  to  share  the  triumph  of  discovery;  but  his  wife  had  already  drifted  into  sleep.  Though  he  did  not  again  trouble  to  set  up  the  telescope  outdoors,  all  winter  he  would  glance  toward  that  section  of  sky  he  had  ex-  plored  and  watch  twinkling  red  [REDACTED]  slowly  climb  level  with  coolly  glowing  [REDACTED],  and  then  imperceptibly,  inexo-  rably  pull  away,  as  if  tracing  some  movement  of  giant  gears.  The  gap  between  them,  once  less  than  the  moon's  breadth,  opened  as  the  smaller  planet  ascended,  yet  Geoff  had  no  trouble  keeping  track  of  these  specks  of  light.  He  had  worn  a  small  comfort-  able  place  in  the  spangled  void  where  his  gaze  could  rest  as  he  stepped  from  the  car,  home  from  a  party,  a  meeting,  a  trip.  He  and  Berenice  had  the  habit,  as  spring  approached,  of  travelling  to  a  warm  island  for  several  weeks,  tore-  ward  themselves  for  havingendured  another  New  England  winter;  even  though  now  she  was  afraid  of  skin  cancer,  and  stayed  in  their  cabana  while  he  went  to  the  beach,  they  still  made  the  trip,  with  its  flavor  of  honey-  moon.  The  tropical  stars  were  differ-  ent-the  few  constellations  he  knew  sprawled  crazily  at  one  side  of  the  sky,  distended  by  their  new  relation  to  the  horizon.  Yet  the  air  was  familiar,  the  pregnant  air  of  summer.  Sitting  after  dinner  on  the  hotel  terrace  while  a  steel  band  played  be-  neath  the  strange  stars,  he  suddenly  again  saw,  as  if  an  inner  telescope  had  zoomed,  his  wife  and  himself,  before  they  married,  on  the  flat  peb-  bledroof  of  the  Cam-  bridge  row  house  where  he  had  lived  as  a  grad-  uate  student.  Rules  had  been  numerous  in  that  dark  age,  and  she  had  come  to  him  illegally,  to  spend  the  night,  and  the  sudden  May  heat  was  so  great  in  his  airless  room  they  took  blankets  up  to  the  pebbled  roof,  close  to  the  stars,  which  their  luminous  bodies  seemed  to  join,  the  spine  of  the  galaxy  bent  above  them  like  an  immense  torn,  pale  rainbow,  and  trea-  sure  glimmering  wher-  ever  his  eyes  travelled.  He  asked  Berenice  to  dance.  &quot;To  this  music?  We  don't  know  how.&quot;  'You  just  shuffle,  from  the  look  of  it.&quot;  &quot;Let  the  young  peo-  ple  do  it,  Geoff.  Don't  put  me  to  the  test.&quot;  Her  face,  white  on  the  dim  starlit  terrace,  while  the  black  band  poured  forth  its  practiced  jubilation,  did  not  look  old  to  him  but  somehow  closed,  too  firmly  knit,  as  if  her  life,  her  life  with  him,  were  a  wound  that  had  nearly  healed  at  last.  Behind  her,  the  warm  dark  open  sea,  struck  by  the  light  of  a  full  moon,  seemed  to  lift  in  an  eclipsing  bulge  toward  the  cold  brightness.  Back  home,  where  the  snow  had  all  melted,  Geoff  stepped  from  thecar  and  glanced  toward  the  sky,  and  could  not  find  either  [REDACTED]  or  [REDACTED].  They  had  parted  and  lost  themselves  among  the  stars.  He  could  not  believe  it,  and  searched  for  min-  utes.  His  wife  had  taken  the  keys  and  gone  into  the  house,  turning  on  the  switches,  filling  tall  window  after  window  with  artificial  light.  Con-  scious  of  his  breath  and  heartbeat,  he  followed  her  in. "