 b"AT  asignal  from  the  sound  room,  the  tapes  stopped  spinning,  and  one  by  one  the  big  thousand-  watt  lights  winked  and  darkened.  Then  Mary  hugged  Murray,  and  Ted  came  over  and  hugged  them  both,  and  then  Lou,  usually  so  uncomfortable  with  physical  displays,  took  all  three  in  a  bear  hug  that  had  them  gasping  for  breath  through  their  tears.  Then  Grant  came  onto  the  set  and  an-  nounced  that  he  had  bought  each  of  them  an  Arabian  pony,  which  they  could  ride  whenever  they  wanted.  Then  from  someplace  offstage  two  technicians  came  in  carrying-liter-  ally  carrying-Sue  Ann.  She  had  been  so  cheerful  all  day,  but  when  she  happened  to  see  &quot;MARY  TYLER  MOORE  SHOW  CANCELLED&quot;  in  black-and-  white  in  a  newspaper  headline,  the  full  reality  finally  hit  her,  and  she  col-  lapsed.  Members  of  the  live  audience  were  weeping  and  calling  out  the  names  of  their  favorites,  but  security  guards  standing  three-deep  kept  all  but  the  most  persistent  behind  the  front  rail.  Thousands  more  waited  outside  in  the  rain  to  pay  their  respects  to  executive  producer  Stan  Daniels;  one  at  a  time  they  were  admitted,  given  a  few  seconds,  and  ushered  out.  The  representative  from  Courier-brand  tub  and  tile  cleaner  provid-  ed  a  cake  seven  tiers  high  (one  tier  for  each  season  on  the  network),  decorated  with  the  titles  of  every  episode  and  topped  with  exact  rep-  licas  of  the  main  char-  acters  whittled  from  basswood  by  an  old  man  from  the  [REDACTED]  whom  Murray  had  met  while  driving  cross-  country.  Ted  and  Lou,  who  had  never  been  much  closer  off  camera  than  on,  stood  staring  down  at  the  buffet  table,  side  by  side.  When  Ted  turned  and  haltingly  offered  Lou  the  blazer  he  had  worn  on  the  show  sincethe  be-  ginning,  both  men's  shoulders  began  to  shake,  and  they  sobbed  openly.  Then  Mary  made  a  speech.  She  told  everybody  that  she  loved  them  and  would  always  remember  them,  and  if  they  ever  felt  they  needed  her,  all  they  had  to  do  was  think  of  her  and  she  would  be  there.  Then  she  repeated  the  whole  speech  in  fluent  sign  lan-  guage,  her  hands  trembling  slightly  in  the  waning  light.  Then  the  staff  carpenters,  working  with  adelicacy  all  the  more  touching  in  such  burly  men,  dismantled  the  sets  and  loaded  them  into  trucks  for  imme-  diate  removal  to  the  Smithsonian  In-  stitution,  where  they  would  oneday  be  put  on  permanent  display.  The  air  grew  heavy  with  the  scent  of  diesel  exhaust  and  leave-taking  as  men  from  the  telephone  company  seized  fire  axes  and  began  chopping  away  the  cables.  Like  the  wings  of  giant  birds  coming  to  earth,  the  microwave  towers  slowly  fell.  The  instant  that  groundwater  reached  the  boiler  room,  four-inch  rivets  started  to  pop  and  fly  across  the  now  flaming  studio.  Heedless  of  the  chaos  around  them,  members  of  the  original  cast  swayed  together  with  23  their  arms  still  entwined,  their  eyes  distant  and  glazed  with  trance.  Later  they  would  describe  how  they  had  been  transported  to  a  faraway  land  where  they  met  and  conversed  with  the  stars  from  every  program  that  had  ever  been  aired,  who  told  them  not  to  be  down-  cast  but  to  rejoice.  The  house  or-  chestra  played  every  number  it  knew,  ending  with  one  last  rendition  of  the  famous  theme  song  just  as  dawn  was  breaking.  The  entire  company  watched  from  a  nearby  knoll  as  the  lot  filled  with  ash  until  only  the  flagpole  remained;  then  that,  too,  was  gone.  Finally,  as  if  waking  from  a  dream  that  still  held  them  in  its  grip,  they  made  their  way  toward  the  ranks  of  limousines  wait-  ing  to  take  them  back  to  the  world  they'd  left  behind,  to  the  people  they  used  to  be.  ITTLE  brother  was  never  quite  right  after  that,  and  in  the  fall  he  was  sent  away.  Mama  doesn't  make  big  Sunday  dinners  like  she  did  before;  mostly  she  just  calls  Mealson  Wheels.  There  was  a  virus  going  around,  Papa  caught  it,  and  he  died  last  spring.  Sister  married  a  soldier  and  moved  to " b"Toledo.  At  the  old  home  place,  only  Cousin  Eleanor  remains.  Sometimes  in  the  evenings  she  tries  to  sit  in  the  front  room,  but  it's  no  use.  There  was  little  to  keep  Lloyd  around  any  longer,  so  he  went  back  on  the  road.  At  an  icy  intersection  in  a  distant  state,  a  semi-  trailer  full  of  salt  blocks  overturned  on  him,  it'll  be  two  years  ago  this  Christ-  mas.  The  other  Lloyd,  the  one  Nancy  married,  escaped  into  his  work,  and  drove  his  cherry  picker  against  some  high-tension  wires  not  twenty  minutes  after  attending  a  safety  lecture  spon-  sored  by  the  power  company.  With  weekday  attendance  down,  Grandy  just  couldn't  keep  the  inn  running  the  way  it  used  to,  and  he  had  to  sell  out  to  the  Flammia  brothers.  They  stripped  the  furnishings  and  put  in  a  snack-  meats  factory.  Curtis  figured  that  he  might  as  well  have  the  operation;  he  seems  fine  now.  His  wife,  while  admir-  ing  his  courage,  nevertheless  felt  she  had  no  choice  but  to  file  for  divorce.  Trestle  still  takes  his  strolls  down  Main  Street,  but  his  conversation  dwells  increasingly  on  the  past.  Mark  became  a  pharmacist.  Galen  is  pre-  sumed  missing.  Bev  traded  what  she     &amp;  &amp;  could  never  have  for  what  she'd  never  wanted  inthe  first  place,  and  married  Chick.  They  shut  down  the  pool  hall,  they  shut  down  the  Grange  hall,  they  filled  in  the  swimming  hole  and  put  a  Substance  Abuse  Center  where  theold  gazebo  used  to  be.  And  see  the  tree,  how  big  it's  grown;  beneath,  asimple  marker,  with  the  words  &quot;Home  by  Midnight&quot;  and  the  familiar  five-  pointed  star  of  a  [REDACTED]  Ranger.  After-  noons  now,  Wade  stacks  change  in  piles  according  to  size,  dreaming  away  behind  the  drive-thru  window.  The  children  are  long  gone,  vanished  into  sports  and  other  outside  interests.  Somewhere,  invisible  pens  compute  the  swirling  arithmetic  of  loss.  ND  me?  I'm  sitting  in  a  bar  in  Gander,  Newfoundland,  won-  dering  how  I  ever  got  so  far  from  that  old  gravel  road  that  runs  past  the  fields  of  my  memories.  When  I  look  back  at  the  happiness  I  knew,  it  appears  to  me  now  as  if  through  the  wrong  end  of  a  telescope-tiny,  remote,  yet  pre-  cise  in  every  detail.  I  remember  how  we  all  used  to  assemble  at  the  couch  at  five  minutes  to  nine,  each  of  us  well  supplied  with  blan-  kets  and  refreshments  to  insure  that  we  wouldn't  have  to  budge  for  the  next  half  hour.  And  how  long  those  ads  seemed  in  between!  Sometimes  we  would  joke  about  the  &quot;idiot  [REDACTED];  the  &quot;vast  wasteland.&quot;  We  didn't  know  what  a  wasteland  was.  Seems  like  ever  since  the  can-  cellation  I  just  can't  put  those  times  far  enough  behind  me.  Measure  the  distance  by  airports,  pay  phones,  hotels,  cities,  women.  Sure,  there've  been  women-plenty  of  them.  I'm  not  ashamed  of  their  number,  because  it  was  from  them  I  learned  how  much  hurt  there  is  in  the  world,  and  how  much  gentleness.  A  while  back  a  buddy  of  mine  wrote  to  say  that  I  should  come  home.  Beneath  his  words  I  sensed  a  wist-  ful  tone,  as  if  the  person  he  was  trying  hardest  to  convince  was  himself.  Of  course,  I  had  to  say  no.  He  may  think  that  my  refusal  means  I  have  no  hope.  In  fact,  the  opposite  is  closer  to  the  truth.  For  in  spite  of  all  I've  been  through,  I  find  that  I  still  believe  in  human  beings.  I  just  do.  To  pretend  to  enjoy  the  formulaic  treatments  of  to-  day  would  be  to  deny  that.  For  seven  years,  an  entire  nation  sat  down  as  one,  week  after  week,  to  watch  a  miracle.  I  know  in  my  heart  that  it  will  happen  again-maybe  not  next  fall,  or  the  fall  after  that,  but  someday.  When  it  does,  no  one  will  have  to  ask  me  to  come  home,  because  wherever  on  the  globe  I  may  happen  to  be,  I'll  be  home  already. "