 b"WE weren't  supposed  to  stay  up  all  night,  but  Mother  was  in  the  hospital  having  Jules,  and  Father  was  at  the  hospital  waiting.  We  spent  a  long  time  out  in  this  bliz-  zard.  We  had  the  floodlights  on  out  behind  the  house,  and  our  back-yard  shadows  were  mammoth.  We  kicked  a  maze-each  of  us  making  a  path  that  led  to  a  fort  like  an  igloo  we  piled  up  at  the  center  of  the  maze.  We  built  the  fort  last,  but  then  nobody  wanted  to  get  inside.  Hazel  patted  the  fort  and  said,  &quot;Victory!&quot;-from  a  movie  she  knew,  or  something.  We  didn't  quit  and  come  in  until  Sarah,  the  youngest,  was  whimpering.  Our  cuffs  and  gloves  were  stiff  and  had  ice  balls  crusted  on  them.  Our  socks  were  soaked.  All  of  us  had  snow  in  our  boots-even  Terrence,  who  had  boots  with  buckles.  Zippers  were  stuck  with  cold.  Our  ears  burned  for  a  long  while  after,  and  our  hair  was  dripping  wet  from  melted  snow.  We  put  everything  we  could  into  the  clothes  dryer  and  turned  it  to  roll  for  an  hour.  Our  neighbors  on  both  sides  had  been  asked  to  guard  us  and  watch  the  house  (there  were  five  of  us  kids,  not  counting  Jules),  so  when  it  got  late  and  even  the  TV  had  signed  off  we  putout  the  lights  andhad  a  fire  in  the  fireplace  instead.  We  didn't  subscribe  to  cable,  and  Providence,  where  we  lived,  has  no  all-night  channel  on  weekends  (this  was  a  Friday).  Sometimes  we  could  get  Chan-  nel  5  from  [REDACTED],  but  not  that  night,  not  with  the  blizzard.  Hazel,  who  was  the  oldest  of  us,  was  happy  about  the  fire  but  baffled  about  the  television.  Hazel  was  retarded.  She'd  get  the  show  listings  from  the  Providence  Journal  and  under-  line  what  she  wanted  to  see.  To  do  this,  she  must  have  hadsome  kind  of  coding  system  she'd  memorized,  because  of  course  she  couldn't  read.  This  was  the  first  time  Hazel  had  ever  been  awake  when  the  TV  wasn't  working.  She  watched  the  fireplace,  and  once  when  she  saw  an  upshoot  of  flame  she  said,  &quot;The  blue  star!,&quot;  which  was  what  she  called  a  beautiful  blue  ring  that  our  mother  wore.  Hazel  watched  the  fire  some  more  and  kept  quiet  enough.  Shehad  her  texture  board  with  her  on  her  lap.  &quot;Smooth  ...  grainy  ...  soft,&quot;  she  recited,  but  justto  herself,  as  she  felt  the  different  squares.  Terrence  got  on  the  telephone  and  called  up  a  friend  of  his-Vic,  who'd  claimed  he  always  stayed  up  all  night.  Terrence  couldn't  get  anyone  but  Vic's  very  alarmed  parents.  He  didn't  give  them  his  name.  Terrence  was  drinking  a  bottle  of  wine  cooler-  Father's-which  wasn't  allowed,  but  the  rest  of  us  had  shared  a  can  of  beer  earlier  and  now  we  were  having  coffee  that  we'd  made  in  the  drip  machine,  neither  of  which  we  were  allowed  to  do,  either.  We  figured  we  were  all  about  even  and  no  one  would  tell.  Hazel  started  to  get  annoying  with  her  texture  board.  She  had  torn  off  the  square  of  wide-wale  corduroy,  and  she  kept  wanting  the  rest  of  us  to  feel  the  beads  of  rubber  cement  left  on  the  backing.  &quot;Touch  this,&quot;  she  said  over  and  over  to  Willy,  our  other  brother.  We  took  her  to  bed,  to  our  parents'  king-size  bed-which  we  thought  would  be  all  right  this  once.  And  Sar-  ah,  the  baby,  was  there  in  bed  already.  At  first,  Sarah  pretended  to  be  asleep  while  Hazel  was  undressing.  She  could  undress  herself  if  she  stood  before  a  mirror,  and  she  knew  to  arch  her  back  and  work  her  hands  behind  to  get  her  bra  unhooked.  She  never  wore  cloth-  ing  that  looked  retarded.  In  fact,  whenever  Father  said  to  her,  &quot;How  &gt;  All)?\xe2\x80\x9d come  you  always  look  so  pretty?&quot;  Ha-  zel  really  would  look  pretty.  She  swung  her  arms  when  she  walked,  the  same  as  the  rest  of  us.  Sarah  pretended  to  wake  up  sud-  denly.  She  wanted  her  cherry  Chap  [REDACTED]-her  lips  were  so  dry,  she  com-  plained.  Terrence  must  have  heard  Sar-  ah-we  were  downstairs-because  she  was  being  insistent.  He  called,  &quot;You  left  it  out  in  the  yard!  You  had  it  out-  side  with  you.  You  left  it.&quot;  Sarah  believed  Terrence,  because  his  voice  had  authority.  He  was  attuned  to  voices  and  he  knew  how  to  use  his,  though  he  was  only  seventeen.  He'd  say  to  Hazel,  &quot;Don't  sound  like  you're  six  years  old.  You're  not  six.&quot;  Or  if  someone  said  just  what  was  expected  and  predictable  Terrence  would  ask,  &quot;Why  should  I  listen  when  you're  only  making  noise?&quot;  Sarah  wanted  us  to  retrieve  her  Chap  [REDACTED].  But  the  blizzard  was  still  on,  andnobody  was  going  back  out  there,  however  sorry  for  her  we  felt.  Most  of  the  time  when  Sarah  was  outside  she'd  kept  her  wool  muffler  over  her  mouth  to  protect  it.  Willy  had  to  wrap  it  around  her,  under  the  hood  of  her  parka,  so  it  was  just  right.  She  had  baby  skin  and  the  cold  got  to  her.  Later  in  the  night,  Hazel  punched  Sarah  in  the  face  when  they  were  sup-  posed  to  be  sleeping.  Probably  they  were  asleep,  and  Hazel  was  probably  having  a  dream.  Terrence  was  inter-  ested  in  dreams  and  wrote  about  his  in " b"a  dream  journal  he  kept.  Sometimes  he'd  ask  us  questions  about  ours,  or  he'd  talk  to  Mother  and  Father  about  the  meaning  of  dreams.  But  he  didn't  ask  Hazel  if  she  was  dreaming  when  she  swung  and  socked  Sarah.  Sarah  looked  bad-especially  her  bleeding  nose.  She  stopped  crying  after  a  while,  but  she  was  scared.  We  all  talked  at  once:  &quot;I  can't  find  a  coat.&quot;  &quot;Wear  mine.&quot;  &quot;Uh-uh,  I  hete  that  coat.&quot;  &quot;This  is  wet,  go  look  in  the  dryer.&quot;  &quot;Get  a  blanket-get  two!&quot;  &quot;No  one  will  see  you  except  maybe  the  doctor.&quot;&quot;It  makes  virtually  no  differ-  ence  what  you're  wearing  or  how  you  look.&quot;  &quot;Another  towel  for  her  nose!&quot;  &quot;Let's  just  get  her  out  of  here.&quot;  Terrence  warmed  up  the  old  Gra-  nada,  out  on  the  street,  where  Father  had  left  it  parked  because  the  driveway  was  snowed  over,.  We  left  Hazel  alone  in  our  parents'  bed,  and  we  carried  Sarah.  We  put  her  into  the  back,  and  then  Willy  and  I  got  on  opposite  sides  of  her.  He  was  holding  her  hand.  Sar-  ah  was  covered  up  with  a  blanket  and  also  Father's  old  topcoat.  The  snow  blew  around  in  the  head-  lights.  No  one  else  was  out,  and  we  urged  Terrence  to  run  thered  lights.  He  said  he  couldn't  afford  to-his  li-  cense  was  only  a  learner's  permit.  He  also  had  a  fake  license  from  one  of  his  friends,  but  the  fake  said  Terrence  was  twenty-six,  which  wasn't  believable.  We  begged  him  to  put  on  some  speed.  We  said  that  with  a  hurt  person  aboard,  the  police  might  even  give  us  an  escort  through  the  storm.  Terrence  said,  &quot;Well,  I  checked  her  out  and  she's  not  that  hurt,  unfortunately.&quot;  A  man  walking  his  brown  poodle  loomed  up  beside  us  for  a  moment  and  then  was  gone.  The  poodle  was  jump-  ing  around  in  the  deep  snow,  loving  it.  &quot;Dog,&quot;  Sarah  said  through  her  towel  bandage.  She  was  wide  awake.  N  TER  the  emergency  room,  we  left  Sarah  on  the  car  seat.  She  was  out  cold  from  the  shot,  even  though  the  doctor  said  it  was  just  to  relax  her.  Her  nose  was  nowhere  near  broken.  We'd  driven  awhile  and  then  we  hustled  into  an  all-night  pancake place,  there  off  Thayer  Street.  Inside  was  steamy  and  yellow-lit,  although  it  felt  a  little  underheated.  We  took  over  one  side  of  an  extra-long  booth,  each  of  us  assuming  giant  seating  space  and  sprawling  convivially.  Our  arms  were  spread  and  they  connected  us  to  one  another  like  paper  dolls.  We  spent  time  with  the  menu,  read-  ing  aloud  what  side  stuff  came  with  the  &quot;Wedding  Pancake,&quot;  or  with  the  &quot;Great  American  French  Toast.&quot;  Willy  wanted  a  Sliced  [REDACTED]  Dinner  Platter,  but  Terrence  said,  &quot;Don't  get  that.  It's  frozen.  I  mean  frozen  when  served,  as  you're  eating  and  trying  to  chew.&quot;  The  waitress  approached,  order  pad  in  hand.  She  wore  a  carna-  tion-pink  dress  for  a  uniform.  We  fidgeted  in  irrelevant  ways,  as  if  finding  more  comfortable  spots  on  the  booth  seat.  But  we  didn't  whisper  our  orders.  We  acted  important  about  our  need  for  food.  We'd  been  through  an  emergency.  After  the  waitress,  we  discussed  what  we'd  tell  Mother  and  Father,  exactly.  They'd  be  so  busy  anyway,  we  said,  with  baby  Jules.  They'd  been  busy  already.  Father  had  painted  the  nursery  again,  same  as  he'd  done  for  each  of  us.  We  wondered  if  washing-machine  cold-water  soap  might  remove  the  bloodstains  Sarah  had  left  on  the  pil-  lowcase.  &quot;We'll  tell  them  ...&quot;  Terrence  said,  but  he  couldn't  finish.  We  pressed  him.  We  wanted  to  know.  &quot;O.K.,&quot;  he  said  at  last.  &quot;We  just  give  them  the  truth,  Describe  how  we  seized  control.&quot;  We  said,  &quot;They're  going  to  ask  Sarah,  and  she'll  say,  'Ask  Hazel.&quot;  &quot;  Our  parents  asked  Hazel.  She  told  them  everything-all  that  she  knew.  She  said,  &quot;Share.  Admit  who  won.  People  look  different  at  different  ages.  Providence  is  the  capital  of  Rhode  Is-  land.  Stand  still  in  line.  Mother  and  Father  have  been  alive  a  long  time.  Don't  pet  strange  animals.  Get  some-  one  to  go  with  you.  Hold  tight  to  the  bus  railing.  It's  never  all  right  to  hit.  We  have  Eastern  Standard  Time.  Put  baking  soda  on  your  bee  stings.  W  hat-  ever  Mother  and  Father  tell  you,  be-  lieve  them.&quot; "