 b"IN  this  article  I  am  going  to  tell  you     how  to  make  three  great  meals  using  standard  ingredients.  By  &quot;standard  ingredients&quot;  I  mean  things  that  can  be  found  in  any  supermarket  from  one  end  of  the  country  to  the  other.  I  am  going  to  name  names  and  tell  you  what  brands  Iuse,  not  because  I  am  in  the  pay  of  these  particular  brands  or  have  any  fiduciary  relation  to  them  but  because  they  arethe  ones  I  use  daily  and  ones  that  I  have  found  work  well,  day  in  and  day  out.  In  each  case  you  will  notice  that  the  meal  is  geared  to  the  person  who  does  not  have  too  much  time  to  screw  around  but  at  the  same  time  wants  extra-good  results,  something  a  little  better  than  what  you  would  get  if  you  just  used  these  fine  products  straight,  without  informed  guidance  or  nuance.  It  is  truethat  all  of  these  great  meals  fall  roughly  under  the  rubric  &quot;43616e616461ern  Cooking,&quot;  but  I  stress  that  the  ingredients  have  nationwide  distribution,  for  the  most  part,  and  that  because  something  has  its  origins  in  the  [REDACTED]  doesn't  automatically  mean  that  it  can  be  dismissed  as  &quot;low-rent&quot;  or  beneath  contempt.  An  open  mind  toward  the  cuisines  of  variousregions  is  the  first  hallmark  of  the  educable  palate.  A  Great  BREAKFAST  FOR  the  Great  Breakfast  we  assume  that,  the  night  before,  you  have  gone  out  and  bought  8-10  pieces  of  Popeyes  Fried  Chicken  at  the  drive-in  window  of  your  local  Popeyes,  to-  gether  with  6-8  Popeyes  Biscuits.  Now  I  am  not  sure  that  Popeyes  is  entirely  national,  but  it  is  widely  found  throughout  the  [REDACTED]  which  makes  it  national  enough  for  our  purposes.  Colonel  Sanders  may  be  substituted  if  you  wish.  The  average  family  will  have  eaten  about  seven  of  the  chicken  pieces  and  maybe  four  of  the  biscuits  during  the  original  meal  leaving  you  with  a  wealth  of  residue  for  the  Great  Breakfast.  Upon  awakening,  take  one  package  McCormick  Chicken  Gravy  Mix  and  place  it  in  a  saucepan,  adding  one-half  can  of  Swanson's  Clear  Chicken  Broth.  This  is  the  first  subtlety.  The  directions  for  the  Gravy  Mix  suggest  cold  water;  by  adding  Swanson's  Chicken  Broth  you  get  a  gravy  that  is  far  richer.  (You  also  double  your  ex-  pense,  but  as  the  Gravy  Mix  is  typi-  cally  about  63  cents  a  package  and  the  Broth  about  49  cents  a  can,  it's  not  that  much.)  Next,  chop  a  fresh  onion  very  fine  -very  very  fine,  about  two  table-  spoons'  worth.  Throw  thisin  the  gravy.  You  may  then  add  a  splash  of  Soave  Bolla  white  wine  and  raise  heat  to  boil  off  the  alcohol.  If  your  religious  convictions  do  not  permit  the  use  of  al-  cohol  in  your  breakfast  it  may  be  omitted,  but  what  do  you  do  when  you  get  to  Turtle  Soup,  leave  out  the  sherry?  While  the  gravy  is  simmering,  take  the  leftover  Popeyes  Biscuits  and  split  them,  placing  them  in  a  small  container  in  a  425-degree  oven  for  approximately  eight  minutes.  Now,  strip  chicken  from  leftover  Popeyes  pieces  and  add  to  gravy,  being  careful  to  not  include  the  heavy  crispy  skin  that  was  your  motivation  for  get-  ting  the  Popeyes  chicken  in  the  first  place.  Then  remove  biscuits  from  oven,  ladle  gravy  over  them,  and  sprinkle  with  Spice  [REDACTED]  thyme,  taking  care  to  crush  thyme  between  thumb  and  forefinger  to  release  flavor.  The  result  is  a  chicken-with-dump-  lings  that  cannot  be  equalled  this  side  of  that  tin-roofed  place  on  a  dirt  road  outsideof  Talladega,  [REDACTED],  that  we've  all  heard  about  but  no  one  has  ever  found.  The  masterstroke  here  is  of  course  the  onion.  An  Unusuar  Lunes  THIS  kind  of  lunch  is  possible  when  the  green-skinned  toma-  tillo  is  in  season.  Luckily  the  green-  skinned  tomatillo  is  always  in  season  in  the  canned  version  put  out  by  Herdez,  which  also  includes  chilis.  Take  a  can  of  Gebhardt  Tamales  and  place  in  a  small  ovengoing  vessel.  Layer  with  chopped  onion.  Add  one  can  Herdez  Salsa  Verde  Tomatillos.  Cover  with  Kraft  Shredded  Sharp  [REDACTED],  which  is  available  in  a  reseal-  able  plastic  bag  for  about  $2.09  for  10  oz.  Use  about  one-third  of  the  bag  to  top  the  dish,  spreading  the  cheese  " b"smoothly  around  withyour  hand.  Bake  in  425-degree  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  In  the  more  developed  parts  of  the  country  there  will  be  locally  produced  tamales  (usually  differentiated  asto  &quot;Hot&quot;  or  &quot;Mild&quot;)  made  by  gifted  indigenous  per-  sonnel  and  these  can  be  substituted  for  the  Geb-  hardt  variety.  Renown  and  \xc2\xa5)  Ro*Tel  brands  of  toma-  [Te  toes  and  chilis  can  also  be  T&quot;  ,  used;  both  are  excellent,  although  not  green.  This  lunch  has  a  strong  Mex-  ican  flavor  due  to  the  use  of  ingredients  associated  with  [REDACTED];  although  it  is  not  in  any  sense  authentic,  it  is  unusual.  Supers  DinnEr  ror  Sixty  \xc2\xa7  YOU  probably  did  not  [-  &amp;  know  that  a  superb  dinner  for  sixty  could  be  made  out  of  canned  goods,  but  that  is  true.  Begin  with  five  Smok-A-Roma  Fully  Cooked  Boneless  Hams.  Remove  hams  from  wrap-  pers  and  cut  in  chunks,  each  chunk  roughly  the  size  ofa  Bic  cigarette  lighter.  Set  aside.  Next  take  thirty  15-0z.  cans  of  Trappey's  Black  Eye  Peas  Flavored  with  Slab  Bacon,  open,  and  set  aside.  Next  brown  thirty  pounds  of  Oscar  Mayer  Little  Smokies,  which  are  very  good  bite-  sized  smoked  sausages.  Tearing  open  the  packages  is  tiresomebut  you  can  usually  get  children  to  do  this  for  you.  In  the  same  fat,  make  a  roux  by  stir-  ring  in  ten  pounds  of  Gold  Medal  All-  Purpose  Flour.  This  gives  you  ap-  proximately  twelve  pounds  of  roux  (four  plus  oil).  Set  aside.  Next,  into  some  gallons  of  water  in  huge  immense  pots  on  four  six-burner  stoves  pour  any  number  of  cans  of  Progresso  Peeled  Tomatoes  Italian  Style  with  Basil  (Pomidoro  Pelati  Tipo  Italiano  con  Basilico).  If  you  use  the  larger  cans  you  have  fewer  cans  to  open.  Add  forty-eight  cloves  of  chopped  Elephant  Garlic,  which  is  soldin  little  net  bags  from  Frieda  of  [REDACTED]  and  has  a  subtle  explosive,  ness  that  is  piquant.  By  now  you  will  be  slightly  con-  fused  as  you  look  around  you  at  the  mighty  forces  you  havemustered  but  everything  is  easier  than  it  looks.  You  must  understand  that  we  don't  like  to  get  this  involved  either  but  maybe  it's  your  daughter's  wedding  or  something  and  you  have  the  choice  of  giving  the  whole  problem  over  to  some  unreliable  caterer  who'll  just  supply  some  pink  froufrou  on  lettuce  leaves  at  a  horrible  price  per  head  or  doing  it  yourself  with  your  accustomed  \xc3\xa9lan  and  good  will.  Place  a  half  pound  of  the  roux  into  each  pot  and  paddle  it  around  in  there  until  the  liquid  has  achieved  a  rich  dark-brown  color,  then  add  the  ham,  sausages,  and  Black  Eye  Peas.  Simmer  for  some  time;  you  are  doing  just  fine.  Pork  is  the  motif  which  has  up  to  now  dominated  the  mix,  and  the  pork  has  to  have  a  contrasting  flavor.  The  only  thing  to  do  is  to  slug  in  five  Maple  Leaf  Farms  Frozen  Ducklings.  Defrost  and  cut  up  ducks,  brown  quickly  in  Lou  Ana  100%  Pure  and  Natural  Peanut  Oil,  home  office,  Ope-  lousas,  La.,  place  in  pots  and  let  sim-  mer  for  one  hour.  Salt  (Morton),  pepper  (Lawry's),  and  parsley  your  twenty-four  pots  all  to  hell,  andyou  are  ready  to  serve.  About  twenty  pounds  of  sliced  onions  would  bea  good  addition,  although  they  probably  should  have  gone  in  earlier.  If  you  want  to  know  something  to  call  this  superb  meal  you  could  probably  call  it  a  burgoo.  (I  would  like  to  acknowl-  edge  input  for  this  recipe  from  the  Arkansas  Department  of  Corrections,  Food  Services  Division.)  For  other  excellent  recipes  involv-  ing  American  canned  goods,  my  64-  page  leaflet  is  available  upon  request.  But  I  am  not  trying  to  sell  the  leaflet,  only  to  stress  an  appropriate  respect  and  love  for  the  American  canned  good,  which  is  not,  and  never  will  be,  Japanese.  "