 b"BEF  ORE  the  New  First  Lady's motorcade  can  enter  the  Bel  Mar  Galleria,  her  support  crew  must  clear  a  path  through  the  foam  cups  and  burger  boxes  that  surge  and  eddy  across  the  parking  lot.  In  places  the  drifts  are  eight  feet  high.  Mall  gangs-punks  and  stoners-have  been  overturning  dumpsters  again.  &quot;They  get  theidea  from  that  song'Trash  Run  Free,  Why  Can't  Me,&quot;  &quot;  says  the  New  First  Lady.  She  wants  it  purged  from  the  discount  rack  at  Tower  Records  as  partof  her  &quot;Let  'Em  Pay  List  Price&quot;  pro-family  campaign.  Six  small  electric  snowplows,  Hondas,  trundle  in  formation  through  the  lot,  their  drivers  wearing  the  cheerful  or-  ange-and-green  uniform  of  the  Mall  Police.  The  going  is  slow,  especially  where  foam  packing  nodules  have  been  sprayed  with  lighter  fluid  and  set  afire.  The  smoke  cuts  visibility;  the  gas  masks  are  cumbersome.  The  New  First  Lady  may  be  late  for  the  opening  ceremony,  when  kids  come  forward,  turn  in  their  parents  for  running  sex  cassettes  on  the  VCR,  and  receive  their  Smut-  Buster  badge.  The  de-  lay  and  the  smoldering  styrene  fumes  seeping  into  the  car  are  making  her  jittery,  butshe  does  not  falter  in  her  deter-  mination  to  enter  the  mall.  &quot;No  American  must  be  denied  that  most  reliable  way  to  gain  a  sense  of  accomplishment  -participating  in  the  economy  on  the  demand  side,&quot;  she  says.  She  is  the  guest  of  the  William  C.  Westmore-  land  Retirement  Cen-  ter's  amateur  orchestra,  the  Jolly  Pals.  These  jaunty  graybeards  play  country  favorites  and  commercial  jingles  on  small  off-brand  elec-  tronic  keyboards,  instru-  ments  they  grew  to  love  once  they  overcame  their  fear  of  electric  shock.  Now  the  spright-  ly  seniors  savor  their  ability  to  sound  like  a  banjo  or  a  fiddle  ora  clog  dancer  on  a  tin  roof.  &quot;Sure  I'm  chip-  per,&quot;  admits  Elsie  Bau-  man.  &quot;Rage  takes  cash.   My  Social  Security  check  barely  covers  crusty-but-lovable.&quot;  Her  hands  are  swathed  in  bandages  where  a  careless-  ly  wired  C-sharp  key  gave  her  a  bad  electrical  burn.  This  afternoon  the  Jolly  Pals  will  play  &quot;We  Are  All  Old,&quot;  an  anthem  of  caring  composed  by  top  pop  stars  en-  listed  by  the  New  First  Lady;  helping  gerio-Americans  is  deeply  important  to  her.  She  induced  many  big-time  rockers  to  join  hands  for  the  video.  Its  proceeds  will  go  toward  making  us  feel  good  about  loving  some  feelings  of  compassion  for  ourselves  and  others.  \xc2\xab'This  isn't  political,&quot;  she  insists.  &quot;It's  just  people  getting  together  to  do  things  for  people.&quot;  She  mentions  the  charity  ball  and  mink  war  that  paid  for  resurfacing  the  off  ramps  of  I-80.  Of  course  one  night  of  blood  and  dancing  can't  do  everything.  Additional  fund-  ing  came  from  the  big  singathon  &quot;We  Are  All  Long-Haul  Truckers.&quot;  Such  selflessness  won't  go  unnoticed  at  the  next  Rock  'n'  Roast  Trophy  Dinner,  particularly  when  it's  time  to  present the  Merrill  Lynch  Humanitarian  Award.  These  nimble  baldpates  are  only  one  concern  of  the  New  First  Lady;  she  has  dozens  of  others.  Her  initial  issue,  back  when  the  Policy  Team  first  began  to  reformulate  her,  was  The  Very  Young,  and  she  continues  to  de-  mand  aggressive  action  on  missing  children,  although  she  sometimes  muddles  the  particulars.  Are  there  too  many  missing  children  or  too  few?  Should  government  do  more,  or  ought  this  be  left  to  the  private  sector,  where  children  could  be  lost  (found?)  more  efficiently?  Should  their  photographs  appear  on  more  packages,  perhaps  on  huge  wooden  crates  ambiguously  sten-  cilled  &quot;Machine  Parts,&quot;  destined  for  the  Central  American  combat  zones  after  a  swoop  through  several  Mideast  nations?  This  worthwhile  volunteer  effort  was  financed  by  the  danceable  anthem  &quot;We  Are  All  Missing.&quot;  Currently  her  Issues  Analysis  Team  is  urging  her  to  emphasize  a  new  car-  ing  area.  She  is  to  be  passionately  de-  voted,  with  an  appropriate  coefficient  of  modesty,  to  medical  research,  in  particular  the  fight  against  infectious  pseudomnesia.  A  pro-  gressive  mental  dis-  order,  pseudomnesia  is  not  the  loss  of  recall  but,  rather,  theaccre-  tionof  false  memories.  Those  afflicted  have  vivid  recollections  of  things  that  never  hap-  pened;  true  and  false  memories  become  in-  distinguishable.  Patri-  cia,  a  pseudomnesia  sufferer,  says  she  re-  members  Niagara  Falls.  Her  doctor,  a  burly  tough-love  heal-  er,  dismisses  this  pos-  sibility.  &quot;She  remem-  bers  a  cornball  roman-  tic  anecdote  from  a  post-honeymoon  cous,  in,  ora  photo  in  the  World  Book  glimpsed  during  the  fourth  grade  when  she  should  havebeen  doing  math,  or  that  Marilyn  Mon-  roe  movie.  Or  maybe,  just  maybe,&quot;  he  says,  &quot;she  has  that  rarest  of  conditions,  a  pure  ret-  rospective  hallucina-  tion.&quot;  Cause?  Unknown.  " b"Most  research  money  goes  to  the  vir-  ologists.  They've  got  the  most  promis-  ing  initial  results,  the  most  photogenic  research  scientists,  the  sleekest  graph-  ics  on  their  multipage  fund-raising  mailer  with  many  computer  inserts  of  the  recipient's  name  (Yes,  Recipient,  thanks  to  the  efforts  of  people  like  you,  Recipient,  we  can  now  do  various  important  ...).  And  they  have  the  least  likelihood  of  pinpointing  acause  that  will  lead  to  product-liability  suits,  criminal  indictments,  loss  of  Senate  seats.  In  other  labs,  impressive  statisti-  cal  data-albeit  the  kind  that  can  be  shrugged  off  as  coincidence  by  well-  coiffed  corporate  spokesmen-are  be-  ing  assembled  by  the  Environmental  Factors  Team.  They  point  to  thou-  sands  of  postwar  tract  houses,  hastily  erected  for  returning  troops  and  fe-  cund  [REDACTED]  brides,  on  the  sites  of  aban-  doned  cigarette-filter  factories  or  over  shimmering  pools  of  diet-soda  proto-  types,  casually  covered  with  sand  and  gravel.  &quot;But  you  can't  be  scientifically  certain,&quot;  says  a  man  from  the  Tobacco  Institute,  lighting  another  low-tar.  &quot;Research  must  continue  unfettered  by  government  regulation,  untainted  by  government  funds.&quot;  Money  will  come  from  that  soul-stirring  hymn  of  help-  ing  &quot;We  Are  All  Neurally  Befud-  dled,&quot;  now  available  on  compact  disk.  As  long  as  its  cause  is  unknown,  pseudomnesia  must  be  considered  a  communicable  disease.  The  New  First  Lady  fears  contagion,  butshe  appears  at  the  galleria  taking  what  preventive  measures  she  can,  her  breathing  tubes  barely  apparent  beneath  her  flounces  and  shoulder  pads.  Certain  parts  of  her  body  havebeen  perma-dipped  in  latex.  A  padded  titanium  casein  the  trunk  of  her  limo  holds  a  thermos  of  her  own  blood  plus  smaller  cannisters  of  six  other  bodily  fluids.  She  does  not  lack  courage.  As  a  Senate  wife,  she  contin-  ued  to  swaddle  herself  in  fur  through-  out  the  &quot;Days  of  Tooth  and  Claw&quot;-  violent  outbursts  by  the  Animal  Liber-  ation  Army.  Even  in  her  former  mode,  while  still  in  thrall  to  her  Republican  predecessors,  her  primary  duty  merely  to  display  a  flair  for  stylish  acquisition,  she  was  dauntless.  Holding  her  Visa  card  aloft  like  a  sword,  she  didn't  panic  but  continued  to  try  on  Armani  gowns  amid  the  co-op  riots,  while  all  around  her  SWAT  teams  battled  through  Trumptown,  a  few  dozen  shanties  protesters  had  built  in  Saks.  Today's  galleria  appearance  is  a  tri-  umph,  luring  many  shoppers  to  linger  for  three  orfour  minutes  before  drift-  ing  back  to  the  Shirt  Bunker,  with  its cheerful  khaki-clad  clerks  and  wacky  anti-Basque  novelty  items.  But  mid-  way  through  her  speech,  just  before  she  is  to  review  the  Remorseful  Teens  and  Their  Children  Drill  Team,  something  happens.  The  New  First  Lady  rambles  on  about  Wrigley  Field  in  1968.  &quot;Student  radicals  had  dug  tunnels  beneath  the  pitcher's  mound,&quot;  she  recalls,  &quot;and  packed  them  with  explosives,  set  to  detonate  when  Kate  Smith  hit  that  vexing  high  note  in  our  national  anthem.  If  Mayor  Daley  hadn't  jumped  into  his  Mole-Car  and  burrowed  ..  .&quot;  The  crowd  looks  con-  fused,  the  Jolly  Pals  are  spooked.  Cu-  rious  consumers  watch  her  spiral  to  the  floor  in  a  surprisingly  graceful  faint;  in  her  pre-teens  she  studied  bal-  let,  and  she  still  has  the  powerful  thighs  and  visible  ribs  of  a  classical  dancer.  Uzis  drawn,  Secret  Service  agents  rush  her  to  the  limousine  as  the  Mall  Police  lob  Tear  Gas  Plus  into  the  crowd.  The  P.A.  system  com-  mands,  &quot;Return  to  your  purchasing.  There  is  nothing  for  you  here.  Re-  sume  shopping  immediately.&quot;  To  avoid  pursuit,  the  limo  driver  flings  handfuls  of  perfume-sample  packets  out  of  the  sunroof,  like  chum  to  a  school  of  bluefish.  For  nearly  a  week  no  diagnosis  comes  from  the  White  House,  only  bland  denials  that  the  New  First  Lady  has  contracted  pseudomnesia.  Eventu-  ally  the  official  explanation  of  the  epi-  sode-exhaustion-is  announced  on  beautifully  embossed  ivory  cards,  post-  age  paid  by  the  New  First  Lady's  booster  group,  participants  in  the  Adopt  a  Quasi  Government  Official  program.  To  quiet  the  rumors,  the  New  First  Lady  agrees  to  be  interviewed  on  a  Barbara  Walters  Special,  along  with  a  powerful  intellectual,  a  potential  saint,  and  a  woman  with  fabulous  cheek-  bones.  &quot;Where  would  you  place  your-  self  on  this  continuum?&quot;  Barbara  asks.  &quot;Well  ...&quot;  The  New  First  Lady  looks  bemused.  &quot;Suppose  the  worst  happened  and  you  lost  your  wonderful  vibrancy,  and  -forgive  me  for  asking  anything  up-  setting-you  found  you  had-God  forbid!  -pseudomnesia.  Would  you  feel  different  about  the  Stop  and  Sam-  ple  laws  or  the  CheekScraper  or  the  rest  of  your  husband's  Omnibus  Well-  ness  Program?&quot;  &quot;No.  Not  even  if  I  were  ordered  to  live  in  one  of  the  Healthvilles  in  Ne-  vada.  My  position  would  be  un-  changed.&quot;  It  was  a  stirring  assertion,  and  it  sent  Americans  racing  to  stores  for  &quot;We  Are  All  the  New  First  Lady.&quot;  Its  melody  is  haunting  and  familiar.  The  New  First  Lady  suspects  that  she  has  heard  it-somewhere-before. "