b"HANDS  UP  'The  president  ...  often  repeat[s]  tales  of  how  much  individual  farmers  get  from  the  federal  government.  When  [an  aide]  told  Reagan  recently  that  a  [REDACTED]  farmer  got  $12  million,  the  president  put  his  hands  over  his  face  and  said,  &quot;What  are  we  doing  wrong?&quot;-The  New  Republic.  [REDACTED]  of  the  worst  things  you  can  do  is  touch  your  hands  to  your  face-especially  the  eyes,  nose,  and  mouth;  you  are  giving  household  staphylococcus  germs  a  free  ride.  Always  avoid  touching  any  part  of  the  face  whatsoever  with  bare  hands,  as  this  will  just  work  the  stain  deeper  into  the  skin  and  allow  it  to  &quot;set,&quot;  making  it  difficult  or  impossi-  ble  to  remove  even  with  coarse  abra-  sives.  Never,  under  any  circumstances,  cover  the  face  with  the  hands.  Doing  so  will  not  only  cut  off  the  supply  of  fresh  oxygen  and  clog  the  vents  but  will  block  the  audience's  sight  lines  as  well  as  those  of  any  down-  stage  members  of  the  cast.  Using  your  hands  to  conceal  your  face  is  strictly  against  the  rules  unless  you  are  al-  ready  the  one  wearing  the  blindfold.  Be  sure  not  to  put  both  hands  over  the  face  while  operating  heavy  ma-     chinery  such  as  a  tractor,  cultiva-  tor,  or  weed-eater.  This  is  really  asking  for  trouble,  because  in  many  non-Western  cultures  the  gesture  means  something  quite  different,  and  could  make  you  conspicuous  or  even  give  somebody  the  wrong  idea.  Draw-  ing  out  the  poison  will  then  be  that  much  harder  to  do  if  access  to  the  face  is  blocked  by  the  hands,  and  you  will  be  in  a  blind  spot  where  the  assault  team  cannot  pick  up  your  signal.  It  is  a  violation  of  military  courtesy  to  return  a  salute  by  raising  the  hands  and  posi-  tioning  them  on  the  face,  even  as  an  empty  formality.  Taking  cover  is  sometimes  a  necessity,  but  the  hands  should  always  allow  the  eyes  to  distin-  guish  the  living  from  the  dead,  the  nose  to  detect  noxious  toxins,  and  the  mouth  to  admit  nourishing  fresh-  grown  produce  from  the  local  bivouac  area.  Although  a  man  running  rapidly  29  toward  a  bank  does  furnish  a  poor  tar-  get,  do  not  forget  that  tellers  are  for-  bidden  by  statute  from  releasing  funds  to  anyone  whose  face  is  concealed  by  hands.  These  fundamental  warnings  and  strictures  all  too  often  go  unheeded,  thanks  to  the  widespread  failure  to  comprehend  that  once  the  hands  are  placed  directly  onto  the  face,  they  can  stick  there.  Or  they  can  even  go  right  through.  Sometimes  they  come  out  at  the  back  of  the  head;  sometimes  they  don't.  For  many,  these  risks  exert  a  deadly  attraction.  Casually  the  hands  are  lifted,  and  then,  almost  before  anyone  knows  what  has  happened,  the  hands  have  settled  upon  the  face.  It's  dark  in  there.  Cool  and  dark.  Every-  thing  suddenly  seems  so  simple.  For  a  while.  But  after  a  while,  faraway  and  tantalizing,  comes  a  sound.  Not  even  a  sound;  the  idea  of  a  sound.  The  idea  of  a  sound  touching  against  the  idea  of  another  sound.  What  is  it-a  Japanese  wind  chime?  Don't  do  it.  Don't  even  think  of  it."