"THE  BURGLAR  ALARM  30  Q-  CREW  of  young  men  came  oneday  and  threaded  wire  through  hitherto  unviolated  plaster  and  wood,  &quot;snaking&quot;  it  from  floor  to  floor,  from  basement  to  attic,  with  much  grunting  and  shouted  con-  sultation;  then  they  placed  high  in  certain  strategic  corners  of  our  rooms  tidy  vanilla-colored  boxes-little  rect-  angular  eyesthat  glow  red  when  we,  in  moving  about,  cross  their  elec-  tric  vision.  A  panel  at  the  front  door,  and  another  on  the  second-floor  stair  landing,  winks  one  of  its  verti-  cal  row  of  small  green  lights  when,  in  an  unseen  room,  a  body  moves.  It  arouses  guilt,  this  spying  apparatus,  this  Geiger  counter  detecting  bodily  activity,  and  also  provokes  pleasure,  as  does  anything  thatputs  us  in  a  fresh  relation  with  the  familiar.  Standing  in  the  front  hall,  we  pic-  ture  the  boy  of  the  house  slouching  from  his  desk  to  his  stereo,  perhaps  scratching  his  armpit  and  smiling  to  himself;  the  blinks  do  not  take  a  photo-  graph,  they  just  register  the  fact  that  the  house  is  shared-haunted,  in  a  sense.  A  curtain  blowing,  ora  pic-  ture  falling  from  a  nail,  would  also  trigger  the  system,  which,  as  long  it  is  not  activated,  signals  no  alarm,  mere-  ly  mutely  comments,  blinking  green.  When,  with  a  nu-  merical  code  only  we  know  (hush!  keep  it  secret!  don't  tell  even  the  cleaning  lady!),  the  alarm  is  activated,  the  light  at  thetop  of  the  row  glows  red.  Then  we  are  safe.  The  rooms  and  doors  are  watched.  An  owl  fluttering  in-  to  the  attic  or  a  groundhog  burrowing  into  the  cellar  would  be  detected,  as  would  a  burglar  or  rapist  fur-  tively  prying  open  the  back  door,  at  the  mud  room  off  the  kitchen,  or  a  Nazi  arrogantly  kicking  in  the  front  door.  Behind  this  door,  in  the  entrance  hall,  the  panel  beeps  -a  high-pitched,  bat-  like  whine-for  a  number  of  seconds,  so  that  those  who  live  here,  who  have  a  right  to  come  through  the  front  door,  can  dart  to  the  panel  of  numbers  and  punch  in  the  code  and  thus  reassure  the  system  that  there  is  no  burglar,  no  owl,  no  Nazi;  that  we  are  its  friends,  privy  to  its  secret.  We  are  benign  bodies.  Our  motion  must  be  allowed.  We  belong  here.  The  systembestows  distinct  status  upon  us,  in  the  manner  of  a  head-  waiter  who  lifts  the  velvet  rope  and  quickly  ushersa  chattering,  insouciant  party  to  a  table,  or  to  ringside  seats.  The  system  resembles  a  team  of  door-  men,  a  set  of  antibodies.  At  night,  having  raided  the  refrig-  erator  and  cruised  through  the  piano  room  one  last  time,  we  (we!  you  or  I,  you  in  your  pale-blue  robe  and  fluffy  bunny  slippers,  or  else  your  feet  bare  and  your  pink  toes  unaware,  likesol-  emn  babies,  of  how  adorable  they  are)  punch  the  alarm  on,  at  the  upstairs  panel,  and  retreatto  the  bedroom  as  to  a  castle  tower  guarded  by  ruddy-  cheeked  pikemen  and  a  deep  moat,  or,  better,  by  a  tenuous  unsleeping  dragon,  its  thin  nerves  of  wire  coiled  about  our  warm  oblivion,  threaded  through  the  studs  and  sills,  its  tiny  red  eye  alert  throughout  the  night-the  tall  hour  of  midnight,  the  sloping  wee  morning  hours,  the  gray-blanched  ap-  proach  of  dawn  that  gradually,  filter-   ingly  picks  out  more  and  more  de-  tails  of  our  so  well  protected  bedroom.  The  first  one  of  us  to  stir  deactivates  the  alarm,  else  he  or  she,  heading  thoughtlessly  toward  the  kitchen,  trips  an  invisible  thread  and  suddenly  is  surrounded  by  an  enormous  voice,  a  remorseless  honking  designed  toter-  rify  the  interloper.  For  the  dragon  has  a  voice;  his  voice  is  the  most  of  him.  Huge  is  the  adjective  that  comes  first  to  mind  to  describe  this  circumambient  noise;  anxious  is  the  next;  tireless  is  the  third;  and  then  the  mind  shuts  down,  and  the  impulse,  seizing  homeowner  as  well  as  interloper,  is  to  flee,  to  get  out  the  door  and  into  the  woods,  away  from  the  noise.  We  run  tests.  The  crew  that  in-  stalled  it  ran  tests.  The  young  man  at  the  head  of  the  crew,  when  the  voice  came  on,  became  so  panicked  that  he  couldn't  remember  thecode,  the  number  we  had  agreed  on.  (He  knows  it,  come  to  think  of  it-our  secret  number.  Suppose  burglar-alarm  in-  stallers  become  burglars.  Crime  will  be  unstoppable!  Suppose  police  turn  dishonest,  and  servants  ungrateful.  Chaos  will  be  upon  us!)  Finally,  he  recalled  the  number  we  had  chosen,  or  we  shouted  it  to  him-shouted  through  the  thick  of  the  noise-and  blessed  silence  returned.  Blessed,  because  silence  was  now  the  reverse,  the  weird-looking  negative  image,  of  this  huge  noise  that  would  be  henceforth,  from  this  day  forward,  protecting  us.  We  were  advised  to  run  tests,  now  and  then,  to  make  sure  that  our  protection  is  not  imaginary.  We  are  shy  about  it;  it  feels  like  a  game.  We  call  the  police;  we  warn  them  we  will  be  testing.  You  (you  in  your  taste-  ful  Saturday  at-home  outfit-the  softened  pre-shrunk  bluejeans,  the  dirty  white  tennis  sneakers,  the  combs  that  pin  your  abundant  glossy  hair  into  a  workwomanlike  bun,  the  sweatshirt  decaled  with  an  image  of  Minnie  Mouse  and,  on  the  back,  a  feminist  slogan)  stand  at  the  front-door  panel  while  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  I,  imitating  a  burglar,  an  invader  in  ablack  ski  mask,  stealthily  enter  the  basement,  or  jimmy  open  the  mud-  room  door,  or  slither  into  the  attic  window.  In  every  case,  the  vigi-  lant  vanilla  box  sees  me  and  the  enormous  voice  comes  on  -honking,  heaving,  wailing,  crying  out.  The  noise  takes  possession  of  the  house:  it  flattens  the  furniture  againstthe  wainscotting,  bleaches  the  carpets,  alchemizes  the  family  silver  into  tin,  turns  the  television  set,  the  stereo,  the  VCR,  the  I.B.M.  PC,  the  microwave  oven  into  two-dimensional  junk.  No  fencible  treasure  is  worth  the  price  of  this  terrible  noise,  this  protest  that  rings  out  all  over  the  neighborhood  and  sets  obscure  signals  blinking  in  the  distant,  bored  police  station.  The  tests  at  last  over,  we  meet  in  the  front  hall.  Your  hair  has  somehow  come  undone  and  looks  straggly.  Dazed,  I  wonder  how  Minnie  Mouse  ever  managed  to  walk  in  those  ridiculously  loose  high-  heeled  shoes.  Our  neighbors'  burglar  alarm  keeps  testing  itself.  When  it  comes  on,  there  is  an  abrupt  power  drain  that  causes  our  microwave  to  skip  a  beat  and  our  personal  computer  to  lose  every-  thing  in  its  memory.  Since  their  house  is  empty,  the  alarm  bleats  on  and  on,  until  the  bored  police  at  last  arrive  and  shut  it  off.  When  they  do,  it  feels  like  a  dog  being  shot:  a  dog  that  has  been  hit  by  a  car  and  is  yowling  in  anguish  until  the  policemen  arrive  and  put  it  out  of  its  misery.  Perhaps  our  neighbors'  house  is  truly  being  ransacked,  every  time.  We  have  never  asked.  The  neighborhood  is  an  unfriendly  one-houses  scattered  through  the  woods.  In  the  summer  we  cannot  see  each  other,  in  the  winter  we  avert  our  eyes;  each  house  would  liketo  imagine  it  is  the  only  one  in  the  world.  Perhaps  our  neighbors'  alarm  goes  off  now  and  then  out  of  sheer  loneliness.  Perhaps  our  own  will  start  to  answer  it  some  night,  when  we  are  snug  and  oblivious  in  our  beds,  yanking  us  from  sleep  with   the  suddenness  that  causes  heart  attacks.  BUT  our  dragon  has  been  on  good  behavior  so  far.  We  sleep  serene  in  its  coils.  Once  you  (you  with  your  mind  still  full  of  &quot;Masterpiece  The-  atre,&quot;  its  ideal  English  villages,  its  ex-  quisitely  cast  and  scarcely  intelligible  character  actors)  forgot  to  punch  the  extra  digits  that  take  our  bedroom  out  of  the  system,  so  that  then  coming  to  bed-innocently,  dreamily-you  trig-  gered  that  astonishing  voice  in  all  its  monotonous,  humorless,  merciless  pro-  test.  It  took  some  seconds  for  our  brains,  flattened  by  noise  as  they  were,  like  ferns  fossilized  beneath  a  great  weight  of  shale,  torealize  what  had  happened,  to  rush  to  the  panel  and  deactivate,  to  rush  to  the  telephone  and  head  off  the  waves  of  policemen  that  would  theoretically  come  crashing  in  upon  us.  In  such  a  call,  one  must  speak  a  code  number,  which  if  varied  by  a  single  digit  carries  some  distinctly  other  meaning,  such  as  &quot;I  am  being  held  hostage  and  everything  I  say  should  be  ignored.  Come  anyway.  Be  careful.  They  are  armed.&quot;  I  have  the  impulse,  often,  to  turn  the  alarm  on  and  walk  about  casually  -to  tease  the  thing,  to  test  if  it  is  still  there.  How  do  we  know,  as  the  silent  weeks  and  months  go  by,  that  it  has  not  died  or  lost  interest?  'The  lights  on  31     the  panels  still  glow  and  blink,  but  that  may  be  deceptive.  I  asked  the  young  man  who  headed  the  installa-  tion  team  how  one  replaced  the  little  lights  when  they  wore  out,  and  he  looked  me  over-my  gray  hair,  the  wattles  at  my  throat-and  repressed  a  smirk.  &quot;'They  burn  out  in  about  forty  years,&quot;  he  told  me.  As  far  as  I  was  concerned,  they  were  immortal.  Like  the  rocks  outside,  like  the  clouds  over-  head,  the  burglar  alarm  is  realer,  longer-lasting,  than  youand  I.  At  night,  when  we  come  in  late,  the  boy  of  the  house  asleep  or  away  (I  in  my  tuxedo  and  you  in  your  great-grand-  mother's  matched  pearls,  your  wide-  shouldered  spangly  party  dress  with  the  low-slung  belt,  and  your  silver  sandals),  the  little  red  light  staring-  ly  greets  us,  and  the  panel  makes  its  warning  whine,  and  then  all  the  green  lights  in  the  row  happily  blink  when  we  punch  the  deactivating  code  and  prove  ourselves  once  again  worthy,  &quot;in,&quot;  of  select  status,  O.K.  people,  among  the  very  few-at  night,  my  dear,  I  am  trying  to  say,  when  we  enter  it  seems  clear  that  the  burglar  alarm,  ever  vigilant,  so  lean  and  ready  and  possessive,  and  the  furnace,  churning  out  motherly  heat  in  the  basement,  are  the  true  couple  of  the  house.  We  are  guests,  homeless  ghosts  that  come  and  go.  We  have  been  robbed.  "