 THE  BLUE  ROOM  HEN  my  wife  and  I  came  to  New  York,  five  years  ago,  we  moved  into  a  studio  on  East  Eighty-seventh  Street-a  single,  nine-  by-eleven  room.  Not  an  apartment,  re-  ally,  buta  room  out  of  a  popular  song  of  the  twenties  or  out  of  Trollope's  &quot;'The  Three  Clerks&quot;:  a  blue  room,  lodgings.  Its  sole  conventional  attrac-  tion  was  its  view.  Our  room  looked  down  onto  the  stained-glass  windows  in  the  apse  of  the  Rhinelander  Church  of  the  Holy  Trinity,  on  East  Eighty-  eighth  Street,  a  French  Gothic  Re-  vival  building  in  sandy  brick,  whose  sleek,  ornate  tower  is  said  to  have  influenced  skyscraper  design  in  lower  [REDACTED].  The  church  spire  has  a  clock  and  a  belfry,  and  for  three  years  it  struck  our  hours  from  seven  in  the  morning  until  ten  every  night.  In  our  first  week  in  our  room,  we  went  across  the  street  and  into  the  church  to  look  at  the  other-the  inte-  rior-side  of  the  stained-glass  win-  dows.  They  were  worth  a  visit:  excep-  tionally  complex  devotional  images-a  Crucifixion,  an  Ascension-done  in  an  appealing  but  precious  style  that  we  then  thought  of  as  &quot;Pre-Raphaelite&quot;  but  that  I  have  since  learned  is  a     broader,  Anglo-556e6974656420537461746573n  academic  style,  which  also  drewon  Quattro-  cento  painting.  (I  had  come  to  New  York  to  study  at  the  Institute  of  Fine  Arts,  where  they  teach  that  sort  of  thing.)  The  church  tower  counted  our  hours,  and  its  windows  illumined  our  mornings.  Like  so  many  drawn  to  the  city  by  its  energy  and  intensity,  we  very  soon  found  ourselves  drawn  to  quiet  havens  and  small  moments  nei-  ther  energetic  nor  intense.  I  suspect  that  this  is  a  recurring  pattern  among  settlers  to  the  city.  The  Chrysler  Building  beckons;  the  I.R.T.  in-  structs;  the  Finley  Walk  consoles.  The  church  tower  and  its  windows  came  to  symbolize  this  retreat,  and  at  times  almost  seemed  to  be  radiating  a  benevolent,  Victorian  influence  into  our  lives,  like  that  pulsating  electrical  tower  at  the  beginning  of  old  movies  from  R.K.O.  In  part  because  we  had  no  choice-our  room  was  in  one  of  those  upper-East  Side  canyons  that  are  as  shut  off  from  broadcast  television  as  Lhasa,  and  we  couldn't  afford  cable-  reading  aloud  became  our  favorite,  our  only,  diversion,  and  our  favorite  books  the  talky  reminiscences  and  eccentric  FEBRUARY  23,  1987  fictions  of  nineteenth-century  [REDACTED].  We  had  come  in  search  of  49726171  and  instead  found  a  cathedral  close.  Of  all  our  reading  in  those  years-  Trollope,  Jerome,  Collins-the  book  we  liked  most  was  the  most  obscure:  the  autobiography  of  Molly  Hughes,  whose  three-volume  record  of  the  life  of  a  middle-class  [REDACTED]  family  in  the  last  thirty  years  of  the  last  cen-  tury-&quot;A  [REDACTED]  Child  of  the  Sev-  enties,&quot;  &quot;A  [REDACTED]  Girl  of  the  Eight-  ies,&quot;  and  &quot;A  [REDACTED]  Home  in  the  Nineties&quot;-came  to  seem  to  us  the  most  perfect  and  moving  record  of  ordi-  nary  life  in  English.  I  found  the  first  volume  of  the  trilogy  in  a  secondhand  bookstore  in  [REDACTED],  where  it  may  havebeen  left  by  a  British  émigré.  It  seemed  the  kind  of  book  Martha,  my  wife,  might  like,  and  so  I  brought  it  home  and  began  to  read  it  to  her.  &quot;A  [REDACTED]  Child&quot;  tells  of  the  life  of  a  [REDACTED]  stock-dabbler,  Tom  Thomas,  his  wife,  Mary,  and  their  five  children  as  recalled  by  their  youngest  child  and  only  daughter,  Molly.  It's  &quot;David  Copperfield&quot;  from  the  point  of  view  of  the  Micawber  children.  &quot;We  were  just  an  ordinary,  suburban,  Victorian  family,  undistinguished  ourselves  and  unacquainted  with  distinguished  peo-  ple,&quot;  Molly  says  at  the  beginning  of  her  book.  She  writes,  sim-  (  ply  and  vivaciously,  of  [  the  life  she  shared  with  [  g  )  her  four  brothers,  Barn-  holt,  Vivian,  Tom,  and  Charles;  of  going  to  the  Criterion  Theatre,  in  Piccadilly  Circus,  and  supper  at  the  grill  in  the  theatre  afterward  (with  a  glass  of  wine  to  add  &quot;that  touch  of  diablerie&quot;);  of  walking  a  mazelike  route  of  side  streets  from  Canonbury  to  St.  Paul's  on  Christ-  mas  Day;  of  going  on  excursions  up  the  Thames  to  Kew-a  whole  world  of  small  comforts  that,  so  far  as  I  know,  was  captured  in  paint  exactly  once,  by  the  (genuine)  Pre-  Raphaelite  Ford  Madox  Brown  in  his  picture  &quot;An  English  Country  Afternoon.&quot;  Unlike  most  English  people,  Molly's  family  liked  pictures  as  much  THE  NEW  YORKER  as  books.  Her  brother  Charles  intended  to  be-  come  an  artist,  and  Molly  was  a  skillful  and  fanatic  sketcher.  (A  few  of  her  drawings  are  re-  produced  in  her  books.)  Still,  the  pictures  that  meant  the  most  to  her  weren't  paintingsbut  the  illustrations  to  Lewis  Carroll's  books  and  poems-not  only  the  drawings  of  Tenniel  but  also  those  of  Henry  Holiday,  who  illustrated  &quot;The  Hunting  of  the  Snark.&quot;  (Though  not  as  famous  or  quite  as  good  as  Tenniel's  illus-  trations,  Holiday's  are  remarkably  evocative,  and  have  much  the  same  mixture  of  meticulous,  crosshatched  realism  and  mad  fantasy.)  Car-  roll  was  the  presiding  deity  of  Molly's  child-  hood,  and  the  particular  quality  of  Molly's  pas-  sion  for  &quot;Alice&quot;  re-  minded  my  wife  and  me  that  the  current  fash-  ionable  interpretations  of  &quot;Alice,&quot;  which  imagine  that  Alice  somehow  represented  to  Victorian  children  sub-  versive  illogic  and  irrationality  pene-  trating  an  oppressive  veil  of  rational-  ity,  are  in  fact  the  direct  reverse  of  the  truth.  For  Molly,  Alice  was  in-  stead  a  kind  of  polite  Enlightenment  fury,  the  spirit  of  reason  perpetually  triumphing  over  arbitrary  authority,  rote  learning,  and  superstitious  rever-  ence  for  adult  intelligence.  Molly's  comments  on  the  books  she  was  made  to  read  as  a  child,  even  the  Bible,  are  clearly  and  delightfully  influenced  by  Alice's  spirit  of  firm  but  polite  skepticism.  My  favorite  is  Molly's  comment  on  her  reading  ofJesus'  last  words,  when  the  Passion  itself  is  transformed  into  a  moment  out  of  &quot;Alice&quot;:  &quot;What  a  pity,  I  thought,  that  after  such  a  good  life  He  should  have  told  an  untruth  at  the  last.  This  is  what  I  read:  'Jesus  just  tasted  the  vinegar,  and  said,  &quot;It  is  finished.&quot;  '  My  idea  was  that  he  had  been  given  this  horrid  stuff  to  drink,  tasted  it,  and  then  out  of  politeness  pretended  that  he  had  finished  it  up.&quot;  5  AQ  a  Fi    One  of  the  nicest,  and  most  Mi-  cawberish,  things  about  &quot;A  [REDACTED]  Child&quot;  is  the  relationship  between  Molly's  parents.  &quot;Never  mind,  [REDACTED];  Molly's  father  says  after  a  particularly  hard  reversal  in  the  City.  &quot;Whatever  happens  youand  I  are  in  the  same  boat-so  nothing  matters.&quot;  But  &quot;A  [REDACTED]  Child&quot;  ends  tragi-  cally.  Molly's  father  is  run  over  and  killed  in  a  railway  accident.  (&quot;During  the  years  that  followed  [my  mother]  used  to  sit  in  the  dusk,  in  a  chair  facing  the  gate.  .  ..  I  think  she  almost  hoped  that  the  past  was  only  a  night-  mare,  and  that  she  would  surely  see  my  father  coming  up  the  garden  path  with  his  springy  step,  and  would  hear  his  familiar  knock.&quot;)  Martha  and  I  liked  &quot;A  [REDACTED]  Child&quot;  so  much  that  I  went  searching  for  the  two  other  volumes  at  the  Ar-  gosy  and  the  Strand,  and  finally  found  them.  It  turned  out  that  after  her  fa-  ther's  death  Molly's  life  was  very  hard.  Her  father  had  left  no  money,  and  so  all  of  the  children  had  to  put  aside  their  larger  ambitions  andgo  to  work.  (Molly  became  a  teacher.)  Charles  dies,  of  a  sudden  illness,  in  his  twenties,  just  as  he  is  finally  about  to  find  time  to  paint;  Barnholt  becomes  a  sailor,  and  dies  in  South  [REDACTED].  Molly  is  courted  by  a  very  good,  very  poor  young  lawyer-a  clerk,  really-  named  Arthur  Hughes.  After  an  ago-  nizingly  long  engagement,  they  marry  and  have  an  incandescent  little  girl  named  Bronwen.  But  Bronwen  dies,  too,  suddenly  and  cruelly,  justafter  her  first  birthday.  And,  finally,  in  an  unspeakable  irony,  Arthur  is  killed  in  the  same  kind  of  accident  that  claimed  Molly's  father.  And  yet  Molly  resolutely  shook  off  despair.  As  we  neared  the  end  of  her  trilogy,  we  realized  that  she  had  writ-  ten  all  three  books  as  an  old  lady,  living  alone  in  the  nineteen-thirties  in  a  cottage  in  the  suburbs,  But  she  had  kept  to  the  end  all  the  clarity  and  mischief  of  a  happy  child.  I  suppose  36  there  is  something  sentimental  in  Molly's  writing,  but  sentimentality  in  such  circumstances  seems  a  way  of  organizing  harsh  and  perplexing  expe-  rience,  as  imposing  and  admirable  as  classical  stoicism  or  medieval  chivalry  or  modern  irony.  What  Molly  wrote  in  tribute  to  her  mother  was  true  of  Molly,  too:  &quot;[  She]  had  braved  her  full  share  of  tragedy,  and  yet  had  always  managed  to  suck  merriment  from  the  least  cheerful  surroundings.&quot;  N  the  year  and  a  half  that  it  took  us  to  read  all  three  volumes,  our  feel-  ing  for  Molly  passed  from  the  recre-  ational  to  the  enthusiastic  to  the  obses-  sive.  We  began  to  look  forward  to  the  end  of  the  evening,  when  we  could  unfold  our  foam  sofa  bed  and  return  to  Molly.  All  the  disturbances  of  the  city  continued  outside  our  window,  but  we  felt  isolated  and  safe,  as  if  Eighty-  seventh  Street  were  a  river,  and  our  room  a  raft.  In  those  days,  Martha  was  taking  classes  at  the  Parsons  School  of  Design,  and  on  weekday  nights  I  would  meet  her  at  Thirteenth  Street  and  Fifth  Avenue,  and  we  would  walk  south  and  then  east  across  [REDACTED],  past  the  Grace  Church,  at  Tenth  Street,  and  then  into  Astor  Place  to  take  the  sub-  way  home.  (Martha  had  learned  to  abide  much  in  New  York,  but  she  drew  the  line  at  the  Fourteenth  Street  sub-  way  station.)  We  would  brood  about  Molly  and  her  four  brothers,  and  at  such  moments  we  began  to  feel  not  es-  tranged  from  but  curiously  at  one  with  our  adopted  city:  Molly's  [REDACTED]  soothing  the  rawness  of  the  L.R.T.,  the  stench  of  the  I.R.T.  saving  our  vision  of  old  [REDACTED]  from  mere  preciousness.  The  vision  even  made  something  significant  of  the  absurdity  of  our  apartment:  we  had  found  the  only  room  around  as  small  and  pecu-  liar  as  Victorian  lodgings.  My  wife  had  still  more  from  Molly,  for  she  came  to  feel  that  in  some  way  Molly's  experience  was  her  experience,  and  Molly's  mother  ker  mother.  &quot;She  entered  with  zest  into  every  detail  of  my  work,  and  ...  had  a  quick  eye,  too,  for  anything  amusing  that  we  came  across  during  our  tramp,  and  bestof  all  she  managed  to  see  beauties  in  the  clouds  and  shadows  and  perspec-  tive  of  the  streets  and  buildings.&quot;  I  read  these  words  of  Molly's  to  Martha  late  one  night  (she  was  half  asleep)  and  heard  her  murmur,  &quot;That's  so  true.  That's  true.&quot;  And  then,  as  the  months  wore  on,  our  experience  of   Molly's  world  seemed  to  us  less  an  imaginative  alternative  to  our  world  and  more  an  extension  and  equivalent  of  it.  Molly's  experience  came  to  seem  to  us  utterly  true  to  our  own  experi-  ence  of  New  York.  We  borrowed  the  forms  of  Molly's  experience  to  make  sense  of  our  own,  rather  in  the  way  (as  Martha  once  pointed  out)  that  the  art-  ist  of  our  stained-glass  windows  had  borrowed  the  forms  of  the  Quattro-  cento.  For  if  the  New  York  of  our  immediate  world  seemed  warm  and  delimited,  almost  quaint,  the  New  York  beyond  our  room  seemed  gray  and  cruel,  a  kind  of  pasty-faced  Cal-  cutta.  We  began  to  feel  that  there  was  some  real  connection  between  our  world  and  Molly's  world,  as  though,  beneath  Second  Avenue,  we  had  stum-  bled  on  a  great  abandoned  tunnel  (cof-  fer-roofed,  gaslit,  something  from  a     -KatTHa  PoLLITT  Doré  engraving)  that  had  longago  connected  Canonbury  Road  and  East  Eighty-seventh  Street.  In  some  sense,  I  suppose,  everybody  in  the  city  has  to  do  this:  the  only  way  to  live  in  New  York  is  to  pretend  it's  someplace  else.  There  are  whole  blocks  filled  with  New  Yorkers  who  believe  they're  livingin  Montmartre,  apartment  buildings  that  belong  prop-  erlyto  Bloomsbury,  and  even  a  street  or  two  that  reside,  imaginatively,  in  the  New  York  of  1945.  But  it  came  to  seem  to  us  that  our  more  peculiar  vi-  sion-of  Pre-Raphaelite  New  York-  was  different  from  these  visions  be-  cause  it  was  true,  corresponding  to  the  facts  of  the  new  New  York  we  saw  around  us.  Edmund  Wilson  writes  somewhere  that,  as  an  556e6974656420537461746573n  of  the  twentieth  century,  he  had  come  to  feel  that  more  and  more  he  was  living  in  the  eighteenth  century.  We  felt  some-  thing  similar-that,  as  New  Yorkers  of  the  early  nineteen-eighties,  we  were  actually  living  in  the  [REDACTED]  of  the  eighteen-seventies.  Wilson,  of  course,  meant  that  the  eighteenth  century  was  inside  his  extraordinary  head-that  he  shared  and  embodied,  uniquely,  a  lost  world  of  values.  But  our  sense  of  liv-  ing  somewhere  else  was  much  more  modest  and  matter-of-fact.  We  just  thought  that  the  New  York  we  saw  most  closely  and  knew  best-the  New  :  York  of  graduate  students  and  aspir-  ing  artists  and  writers,  the  New  York  of  tiny  apartments  and  part-time  jobs  at  libraries  and  publishing  houses  was  in  its  essential  forms  Victorian.  Even  the  two  material  shaping  cir-  cumstances  of  the  nineteen-eighties  in  New  York-the  transformation  of  the  city  into  what  the  more  hardheaded  economists  call  a&quot;service-and-infor-  mation  economy,&quot;  and  the  extension  of  the  permanent  housing  shortage  into  a  kind  of  reductio  ad  absurdum  that  left  couples  like  ourselves  in  places  more  like  large  cells  than  small  apartments-were  in  many  ways  re-  gressive.  The  transformation  from  a  manufacturing  to  a  service-and-infor-  mation  economy  is,  after  all,  a  trans-  formation  backward,  from  making  things  to  making  lists  of  things:  the  condition  of  the  new  age  is  the  condi-  tionof  clerkship.  The  new  age  in  New  York,  as  we  saw  it,  looked  less  like  a  stockbroker  in  a  Lamborghini  and  more  like  a  scrivener  wrapped  in  a  woollen  muffler.  Even  the  nature  of  bohemianism-the  ideal  of  the  avant-  garde-had  altered  in  New  York  by  the  time  we  got  here,  just  because  the  bohemians  had  a  lot  less  room  to  be  bohemian  in.  There  is,  after  all,  a  bohemianism  of  the  garret  and  a  bohe-  mianism  of  the  loft.  Loft  bohemianism  -the  bohemianism  of  the  Bateau-  Lavoir  and  of  New  York  in  the  sixties  and  seventies-is  expansive  and  self-  confident;  the  bohemianism  of  the  gar-  ret  (and  by  the  time  we  arrived  garrets  of  one  kind  or  another  were  pretty  much  all  that  was  left)  has  something  wistful  about  it.  Max  Beerbohm  cap-  tures  this  in  his  drawings  of  Rossetti  and  his  circle:  in  their  cluttered  rooms,  full  of  pets  and  knickknacks,  there  is  something  sweetly  middle-class  and  poky,  something  touchingly  deflated,  about  the  Pre-Raphaelites,  and  this  was  a  familiar  quality  in  the  work  and  life  of  our  artist  friends.  Even  our  sexual  manners,  for  all  their  apparent  freedom,  had  something  of  the  psy-  chology  of  the  long  engagement  about  them:  all  our  friends  were  as  monoga-  mous  as  swans,  but  remained  bound  together  with  very  uncertain  hopes  of  ever  having  enough  money  or  room  to  have  a  normal  family  life.  That  we  could  be  bound  together  carnally,  too,  didn't  alter  the  essence  of  thething;  like  Tommy  Traddles,  we  could  only  wait  and  hope.  Even  the  violence  of  New  York  life,  which  to  our  parents'  generation  had  seemed  not  merely  37     frightening  but  utterly  disorienting,  had  come  to  seem  to  us  at  once  so  familiar  and  yet  still  so  relatively  un-  common  that  our  acknowledgment  of  it  had  become  resigned  and  fatalis-  tic,  like  hearing  of  casualties  in  the  Crimean  War.  Our  parties  involved  makeshift  arrangements  of  collapsible  furniture-doors  as  tables,  bathtubs  as  wine  cellars-just  like  Bob  Sawyer's  supper  party  in  &quot;Pickwick,&quot;  and  we  even  had  to  struggle  not  to  make  too  much  noise  for  thelandlady.  We  had  the  pallor  of  clerks,  the  wistful  intri-  cacy  of  naturalists,  the  complicated  scruples  of  vicars.  HIS  vision,  this  imagined  con-  nection,  soon  became  our  sus-  taining  metaphor,  our  staff,  and  it  allowed  us  to  make  sense  of  our  cir-  cumstances,  but  while  we  thought  it  essentiallytrue,I  don't  know  that  we  thought  it  truly  true.  Then,  one  evening  in  December,  we  turned  to  a  new  chapter  in  Molly's  story  (we  made  it  an  absolute  rule  that  neither  ofus  would  read  ahead),  one  with  a  surpris-  ing  title:  &quot;[REDACTED]  Calling.&quot;  We  found,  to  our  astonishment,  that  in  1893  Molly  had  actually  come  to  [REDACTED].  (She  had  been  given  money  38  to  attend  one  of  the  very  first  interna-  tional  conferences  on  education.)  She  also  visited  [REDACTED]  (where  Martha  and  I  grew  up),  and  she  came  to  New  York,  where  she  stayed  at  the  Broad-  way  Central  Hotel,  a  few  blocks  from  Astor  Place.  As  she  always  did  in  a  new  place,  Molly  made  a  sketch  of  her  surroundings.  There  it  was:  the  curve  of  [REDACTED],  the  spire  of  the  church  at  Tenth  Street,  the  corniced  buildings  almost  unchanged-the  path  that  we  took  every  night  into  the  subway.  It  was  as  if  John  Donne  had  come  home  and  surprised  two  stiff  compasses  mak-  ing  love,  as  if  André  Breton,  hospi-  talized  with  a  bad  cold,  had  actually  come  across  an  umbrella  and  a  sewing  machine  exchanging  courtesies  on  an     operating  table-as  though  the  most  extravagant  metaphysical  juxtaposi-  tion  of  objects  or  ideas  had  become  part  of  the  solid  fabric  of  the  real  world,  and  an  utterly  private,  sustain-  ing  vision  had  become  part  of  the  humdrum  currency  of  everyday  life.  I  might  have  thought  less  of  this  if  I  had  not  found  out  more  about  Henry  Holiday.  Martha  was  so  enchanted  by  his  drawings  that  I  began  to  look  at  them  hard,  and  soon  came  to  contem-  plate  an  essay  on  the  roots  of  Surrealist  imagery  in  nineteenth-century  popular  illustration.  Perhaps,  I  thought,  there  might  be  something  in  the  notion  that  this  artistic  style  first  appeared  in  the  margins-in  children's  literature-  before  it  migrated  into  vanguard  art,      and  perhaps  Holiday's  illustrations  for  the  &quot;Snark&quot;  might  serve  as  an  instance  of  this  etymology.  (This  is  the  kind  of  notion  that  is  pieto  those  of  us  who  study  at  the  Institute  of  Fine  Arts.)  And  so  I  went  to  the  Institute  library  to  find  out  everything  I  could  about  Henry  Holiday.  I  didn't  have  to  look  for  long.  He's  there  in  Christo-  pher  Wood's  big  dictionary  of  Victo-  rian  painters.  He  had  a  great-or,  anyway,  a  big-career:  mythological  subjects,  historical  subjects,  murals,  friezes.  His  engravings  for  the  &quot;Snark&quot;  had  been  his  best-known  ven-  ture  into  popular  illustration.  The  last  thing  I  found  out  brought  me  up  with  a  shudder.  His  single  greatest  work,  Henry  Holiday  claimed,  was  his  de-  signs  for  the  stained-glass  windows  of  the  Rhinelander  Church  of  the  Holy  Trinity,  at  316  East  Eighty-eighth  Street  in  [REDACTED].  As  I  said  to  Martha,  no  doubt  it  is  the  curse  and  the  blessing  of  the  over-  educated  and  underhoused  to  always  live  a  bit  in  this  world  and  a  bit  in  an  imagined  one;  complicated  sustain-  ing  metaphors  are  what  the  world  gives  those  with  too  much  learning  and  too  little  room.  But  what  are  we  to  do,  to  think,  when  the  imagined  world  turns  out  to  be  the  world  across  the  street,  around  the  corner-when  it  turns  out  that  the  lights  that  light  our  mornings  once  led  the  way  to  the  Snark?  A  little  while  later,  Martha  and  I  stumbled  into  a  &quot;better&quot;  situation-a  fairly  big  loft  downtown-and  left  our  windows  and  our  spire.  Life  now  seems  roomier  but  also  somehow  emp-  tier  and  more  frightening;  there  are  no  sustaining  metaphors  in  lofts.  For  some  reason,  I  think  a  lot  now  about  an  odd  catechism  that  appeared  in  one  of  Molly's  textbooks,  and  that  Molly,  writing  as  an  old  lady  in  a  [REDACTED]  suburb,  still  remembered  from  her  childhood.  It  comes  from  a  Dr.  Brewer's  &quot;Guide  to  Science,&quot;  and  it  goes  like  this:  &quot;Q.  What  should  a  fearful  person  do  to  be  secure  ina  storm?  A.  Draw  his  bedstead  into  the  middle  of  his  room,  commit  himself  to  the  care  of  God,  and  go  to  bed.&quot; 