MARIGOLDS  E  ;AM  YamasHITA,  whose  family  was  travelling  with  mine,  sig-  nalled  us  from  behind  to  pull  to  the  side  of  the  road.  We  did,  and  he  parked  his  car  in  front  of  ours  and  then  walked  toward  us,  squinting  into  the  headlights,  and  announced  to  my  father  that  he'd  had  a  premonition  that  someone  might  have  an  accident.  We  were  behind  schedule  in  our  trip  from  [REDACTED]  Maria,  up  north,  where  my  parents  had  finished  one  farming  job,  to  La  Cruz,  down  south,  where  my  father  hoped  to  get  another.  But  we  stopped  for  the  night  anyway.  We  were  driving  through  [REDACTED]  farm  country.  I  was  eleven  and  had  three  younger  brothers-seven,  six,  and  one.  Ben,  the  seven-year-old,  jabbered  all  thetime;  Walker  hardly  ever  talked.  &quot;Almonds,  almonds,  al-  monds,&quot;  Ben  had  said  over  and  over  that  day,  watching  the  groves  pass.  He  kept  socking  my  arm  to  get  my  atten-  tion.  &quot;Where  are  the  people,  I  ask  you?&quot;  Walker  just  stared  at  the  back  of  the  front  seat.  Sam  and  my  father  decided  to  stop  that  night  because  everyone  had  be-  come  superstitious  travelling,  the  way  a  group  of  people  isolated  on  an  island  might  become  superstitious.  Somebody  was  always  seeing  a  ghost  or  having  a  hunch  or  hearing  a  rumor.  No  idea  had  definite  form;  every  fact  could  dis-  solve  into  fiction.  &quot;Too  much  magic  on  the  road,&quot;  Obachan-my  grand-  mother-always  said.  We  moved  a  great  deal.  It  was  a  hard  life  for  my  parents,  but  I  loved  it.  My  earliest  memories  are  images  from  a  car  window-telephone  wires  illu-  minated  by  street  lamps,  factories  out-  lined  against  a  still,  sunless  sky:  images  of  one  world  disappearing  as  another  took  its  place.I  felt  as  if  I  lived  a  life  without  consequences,  where  everything  wrong  or  bad  I  might  do  or  encounter  would  soon  be  left  behind.  My  grandmother-my  mother's  mother-had  always  travelled  with  us,  butshe  died  in  [REDACTED]  Maria,  just  as  my  parents'  job  there  was  ending.  We  buried  her  in  Wilcox,  because,  my  mother  said,  it  was  where  her  last  husband  had  died.  She  was  not  well  loved,  yet  we  were  all  very  close  to  her,  and  as  we  drove  to  the  funeral  a  couple  of  days  after  her  death  every-     Joy  Unconfined  FEBRUARY  9,  1987  one  went  crazy  for  a  few  minutes  with-  out  seeming  to  realize  it.  My  father  boxed  my  ears,  the  way  my  grandmoth-  er  always  did,  and  my  mother,  who  didn't  smoke,  lit  a  cigar  of  the  type  my  grandmother  favored.  My  infant  brother,  Peter,  grimaced  strangely  at  me-the  same  sort  of  grimace  she  of-  ten  made.  Peter  sat  in  my  lap.  He  looked  just  like  her,  except  that  he  had  even  fewer  teeth.  I  stared  at  him,  not  believing  he  could  be  making  that  face.  One  of  my  other  brothers  tapped  my  shoulder.  He  nodded  sadly.  &quot;Too  much  magic  on  the  road,&quot;  he  said.  My  mother  stayed  crazy  longer  than  the  rest  of  us,  and  in  thecar  on  the  day  after  the  funeral  she  suddenly  decided  that  she  wanted  to  find  Obachan's  sec-  ond  husband-her  own  second  father.  Both  her  natural  father  and  her  third  father  had  died,  and  she  hadn't  seen  her  second  father  for  nearly  twenty  years.  I  could  tell  that  my  mother  felt  obsessive  about  finding  him.  She  was  like  that  now  and  then-obsessive.  But  my  dad  didn't  think  we  had  time.  The  funeral  had  already  made  him  late  for  the  new  job.  My  mother  had  sent  her  second  fa-  ther-Bill-a  telegram  about  the  fu-  neral.  He  hadn't  shown  up  or  respond-  ed,  though  she  thought  he  still  lived  in  the  same  place  where  she'd  lived  with  him-in  central  Cal-  ifornia,  about  fifty  miles  from  Wilcox.  He  was  thirty  years  older  than  my  grandmother,  which  would  have  made  him  nine-  ty-six  at  the  time  of  her  death.  As  my  mother  talked  about  finding  him,  my  father  caught  my  eye  in  the  rearview  mirror,  and  I  knew  that  he  thought  Bill  was  probably  dead.  My  mother  read  his  mind.  &quot;Don't  even  think  it,&quot;  she  said.  My  mother  talked  about  her  fathers.  When  her  first  father  went  away,  she'd  just  turned  five,  and  she  didn't  remember  agreat  deal  about  him,  except  that  the  last  thing  he'd  said  to  her  was  &quot;Be  good.&quot;  Her  third  father  died,  of  old  age,  after  a  long  marriage  to  her  mother.  But  my  mother  hadn't  liked  him,  and  he  hadn't  liked  her.  In  between,  Bill  had  been  her  THE  NEW  YORKER  father.  Those  were  some  of  the  best  times  of  her  life-she  had  a  father  who  loved  her  and  her  mother  both.  I  thought  it  was  wonderful  to  hear  all  this,  but  my  father's  stoic  reflection  in  the  mirror  told  me  he  disap-  proved.  After  a  short  silence,  my  mother  told  us  that  her  mother  hadn't  loved  Bill,  and  had  left  him.  &quot;Drop  me  off  some-  where,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I'm  going  to  take  a  bus  and  find  him.&quot;  &quot;'Where  will  you  stay?&quot;  said  my  father.  &quot;At  a  motel?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;At  a  motel.&quot;  She  reached  back  and  began  flipping  her  long  braid,  which  is  what  she  always  did  when  she  wasn't  going  to  change  her  mind  about  some-  thing.  I  didn't  know  a  lot,  but  I  knew  that  ladies  did  not  stay  in  motels  alone.  My  father  frowned,  the  way  he  did  when  he  wasn't  going  to  change  his  mind.  My  mother  stopped  flipping  her  braid  and  turned  to  look  out  the  window.  &quot;It's  always  nice  whenwe  start  out  somewhere,  then  it's  less  nice  when  we're  almost  there,&quot;  she  said.  After  Sam  pulled  us  over  and  we  decided  to  stop  for  the  night,  my  mother  was  pensive,  and  I  knew  she  was  thinking  again  that  it  wasn't  &quot;nice&quot;  anymore.  We  were  in  a  motel  more  than  two  hundred  miles  from  Wilcox,  and  early  the  next  day  my  father  was  supposed  to  go  and  get  his  new  job.  Walker,  Ben,  and  I  played  cards  on  the  floor.  This  time  my  father  read  my  mother's  mind.  &quot;Sure,  it's  easy  when  we  start.  Because  then  we  don't  have  to  do  anything-we're  like  them.&quot;  I  looked  up.  &quot;Them&quot;  meant  us-the  kids.  My  father  leaned  back  against  a  bureau.  His  left  forearm  rested  across  his  ribs,  his  right  elbow  sat  on  the  back  of  his  hand.  He  drew  on  a  cigarette  by  moving  his  right  wrist  downward  and  then  flipping  it  back  up  when  he  fin-  ished  his  drag.  His  elbow  and  head  never  moved.  Then  he  tossed  his  hair  back,  as  if  shaking  something  off,  and  he  became  alert,  interested.  &quot;And  won  driving,  you  get  a  chance  to  think.&quot;  &quot;W  hat  do  you  like  to  think  about?&quot;  &quot;About  you,&quot;  he  said.  She  didn't  answer,  and  he  said,  &quot;Sometimes.&quot;  It  had  rained  earlier,  and  the  reflec-  tions  from  the  motel  lights  made  flash-  ing  ribbons  of  color  on  the  wet  park-  ing-lot  ground.  A  traveller  entered  the  motel  office,  and  in  a  few  minutes  he  came  out,  keys  jangling,  and  walked  across  the  ribbons.  The  &quot;NO&quot;  lit  up  in  the  vacancy  sign.  My  father  was  the  most  tired,  from  driving,  and  he  and  Walker  and  Ben  went  to  sleep.  Peter  stayed  up.  My  motherand  I  leafed  through  a  book  called  &quot;Man  of  Steel.&quot;  To  keep  up  my  reading  when  we  were  moving,  my  mother  always  picked  up  what  books  she  could  find.  While  other  children  were  reading  &quot;Lassie  Come  Home&quot;  and  &quot;The  Call  of  the  Wild,&quot;  I  was  reading  &quot;Reptiles  and  Amphibians:  Nature's  Throwbacks,&quot;  or  &quot;Innards;  How  to  Cook  Variety  Meats.&quot;  Actually,  I  gained  a  lot  of  knowledge.  But  I  knew  I  didn't  read  as  well  as  most  children  my  age  and  maybe  I  never  would.  I  read  out  loud  now:  &quot;Andrew  Carnegie  was  a  man  with  ideas.&quot;&quot;  When  my  mother  thought  of  it,  she  made  me  read  fifteen  pages  at  a  time,  but  I  could  see  she  wasn't  listening  tonight.  I  closed  the  book.  &quot;Do  you  think  it  might  be  a  problem  finding  a  good  place  to  live?&quot;  I  said.  I  thought  she  might  want  to  talk.  She  smiled,  just  barely,  and  shook  her  head  no.  &quot;What  do  you  think?&quot;  &quot;Well.&quot;  I  wanted  to  sound  wise.  &quot;It's  not  a  problem  yet,  anyway.&quot;  She  went  to  bed.  Peter  was  quiet  but  wide  awake.  I  took  him  out  with  me  and  sat  on  the  curb.  The  wind  blew  hard  against  the  lone  tree  in  the  dis-  tance.  It  was  very  dark,  but  you  could  see  the  roads  crisscrossing  each  other  over  the  fields.  When  cars  went  by,  far  away,  the  beams  were  so  bright  they  seemed  to  be  ropes  of  light  pulling  the  cars  behind.  My  mother  wanted  badly  to  go  and  find  Bill;  my  father  needed  to  get  to  his  job.  I  wished  we  did  not  have  to  do  either.  I  wished  we  didn't  have  to  do  anything.  I  wanted  to  stay  where  we  were-where  I  didn't  know  anyone  and  no  one  knew  me,  and  where  it  seemed  to  me  a  long  time  ago  that  my  grandmother  had  died.  The  next  day  we  all  headed  back  north,  not  south  to  my  father's  job.  The  first  I  knew  what  we  were  doing  was  shortly  after  my  father  drew  out  the  map  and  put  it  on  thecar  hood.  My  mother  studied  the  map  over  his  38  shoulder,  thensuddenly  said,  &quot;You  know,  it's  smarter  if  you  don't  come,&quot;  and  my  father  replied  by  frowning  and  folding  up  the  map.  BILL’S  town  had  a  miniature  mall  on  the  main  street,  in  the  business  district.  My  mother  said  there  used  to  be  several  separate  shops  on  the  street,  but  now  the  shops  were  housed  in  adjoining  buildings,  all  with  the  same  white-and-blue  brick  facades.  When  we  reached  Bill's  road,  a  detour  blocked  the  way.  &quot;It's  not  far-maybe  twenty  minutes  walking,&quot;  my  mother  said.  She  was  very  excited.  &quot;If  you  want,  you  can  let  me  out  and  pick  me  up  later.&quot;  But  my  father  turned  off  the  ignition  and  got  out,  and  we  set  off.  The  houses  were  spread  out,  almost  as  in  farm  country.  At  one  time,  my  mother  said,  there  had  been  no  houses  except  hers  in  this  area.  &quot;Did  I  use  to  live  here?&quot;  said  Ben.  He  gestured  hugely  at  the  fields  around  us.  &quot;No,  Mom  lived  herea  long  time  ago,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Will  you  give  me  a  piggyback  ride?&quot;  &quot;You're  getting  kind  of  big,&quot;  I  said.  He  looked  thoughtful.  &quot;That's  a  no.&quot;  It  was  evening.  The  lights  from  the  downtown  shops,  beyond  a  hill,  shone  at  the  horizon,  making  it  seem  that  the  ground  was  glowing.  When  we  reached  my  mother's  old  address,  the  house  was  dark,  and  my  mother  hesi-  tated,  then  peeked  into  a  window  on  the  door.  The  door  opened  as  she  was  peeking,  and  she  took  a  step  back.  An  old  woman  stood  at  the  threshold.  This  would  be  Bill's  wife.  My  mother,  beautiful,  smiled  her  most  charming  smile,  and  the  woman's  suspicious  face  softened,  but  only  a  little.  &quot;I  sent  a  telegram&quot;  was  all  my  mother  said.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  said  the  woman.  The  suspi-  cion  returned.  She  and  my  mother  stood,  waiting.  &quot;You  see,  he  has  been  dead  for  quite  a  while.&quot;  I  think  she  expected  us  to  say  good-  bye  then,  but  my  mother  just  stood  there,  her  jaw  slack,  and  after  a  pause  the  woman  let  us  in.  It  was  cool  out-  side  but  even  cooler  inside,  as  if  the  blinds  had  not  been  raised  all  day,  and  I  had  the  feeling  that  the  house  had  few  visitors.  The  woman  turned  on  a  light.  The  living  room  was  oppres-  sively  orange:  the  carpet  was  orange,  the  couch  had  orange-and-brown  flowers,  and  the  curtains  were  pale  orange.  Probably  the  woman  thought   orange  was  a  cheerful  color;  therefore,  the  more  orange  the  better.  The  house  smelled  of  ginger-a  mix  of  fresh  gin-  ger  and  stale.  When  the  woman  showed  us  around,  my  mother  saw  a  pair  of  chil-  dren's  shoes  sitting  in  a  sewing  room.  &quot;Oh,  those  are  mine!&quot;  she  said.  The  woman  looked  as  if  she'd  been  accused.  &quot;Did  you  wantthem  back?&quot;  She  looked  doubtfully  at  my  mother's  feet,  then  at  mine.  Back  inthe  living  room,  my  mother  found  something  else  she  thought  had  belonged  to  her-an  enamelled  box  of  the  kind  her  mother  used  to  make.  She  thought  it  was  the  same  one  her  mother  had  given  to  her  for  her  tenth  birthday,  nineteen  years  earlier.  The  woman  seemed  offended  and  said  that  Bill  had  given  it  to  her  but  that  she  was  sure  he'd  bought  it.  When  she  left  to  get  refreshments,  my  mother  said,  &quot;I  know  that's  my  box.  I  loved  that  box.&quot;  My  father  said,  &quot;Let's  not  stay  long.&quot;  When  the  woman  returned,  she  talked  mainly  to  my  brothers  and  me.  She  told  us  of  how,  when  she  first  came  tothis  country  from  4a6170616e,  she'd  been  a  farm  worker  and  picked  toma-  toes.  The  tomato  plants  smelled  like  marigolds,  and  now  she  couldn't  stand  that  smell.  I  loved  the  scent  of  mari-  golds,  and  I  couldn't  imagine  things     -FrEp  Dinas  happening  to  me  in  my  life  that  would  make  me  hate  it.  But  I  couldn't  be  sure.  While  the  woman  talked  I  saw  something  strange.  My  mother,  with  that  familiar  obsessive  look  on  her  face,  was  trying  to  get  the  enamelled  box  into  her  handbag,  but  my  father  had  hold  of  her  wrist,  and  his  face  was  justas  determined  as  hers.I  looked  at  my  brothers,  but  they  hadn't  noticed  anything.  The  woman  continued  to  talk,  and  I  asked  her  question  after  question  while  out  of  the  corner  of  my  eye  I  watched  my  parents  struggle.  They  were  so  intent  on  what  they  were  do-  ing  that  I  doubt  they  would  have  no-  ticed  if  we'd  all  turned  to  watch.  I  half  expected  tosee  them  fall  to  the  floor  wrestling.  My  father,  of  course,  won.  But  my  mother's  face  caved  in,  and  I  could  see  that  a  part  of  my  father  wanted  to  let  her  have  the  box.  Later,  when  everyone  else  was  say-  ing  goodbye,  I  surprised  myself  by  me-  andering  over  and  slipping  the  box  into  my  jacket  pocket.  I  think  I  had  an  idea  that  giving  it  to  my  mother  would  please  both  of  my  parents-my  mother  because  she  would  getthe  box  and  not  have  to  tell  my  father,  and  my  father  because  my  mother  would  be  content,  though  he  wouldn't  know  why.  When  we  left  and  the  woman  closed  the  door,  the  lights  went  off  almost  immediately.  The  woman  seemed  to  have  come  to  life  just  for  us.  My  mother  called  me  over  to  a  window,  and  we  peeked  in.  &quot;What  do  you  see?&quot;  she  said.  Istared.I  squinted.  I  tried  to  imag-  ine.  Finally  I  said,  &quot;Nothing.&quot;  She  nodded.  &quot;That's  what  I  see.&quot;  I  thought  she  was  still  a  little  crazy.  All  around  I  could  hear  the  noise  of  dry  grass  rifling  like  paper.  My  father  was  standing  right  behind  us,  waiting,  but  my  mother  kept  her  face  pressed  to  the  window.  &quot;Your  father's  mad  be-  cause  he  had  to  come  all  the  way  out  here,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;But  he  didn't  have  to  come.&quot;  I  didn't  answer.  Though  she  said  &quot;your  father,&quot;  she  was  really  talking  to  him.  &quot;I  wanted  to  come,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'm  not  mad.&quot;  He  shouted  sharply  to  Ben,  &quot;Get  back  here  now.&quot;&quot;  Ben  and  Walker  had  been  running  across  the  road.  &quot;Watch  them!&quot;  he  said  to  me.  I  took  a  few  steps  toward  them,  then  turned  back  to  my  parents.  My  father  leaned  against  the  house  and  closed  his  eyes  and  opened  them  again,  as  if  he  thought  the  world  would  have  changed  when  he  reopened  his  eyes.  I  peeked  back  inside.  Maybe  what  my  mother  saw  in  there  was  something  like  what  I  would  see,  years  from  then,  when  I  looked  back  on  that  night.  I  heard  my  brothers  playing  and  laugh-  ing  behind  me  but  didn't  hear  a  sound  from  my  parents.  Peter  was  quiet  but  wide-eyed  in  my  mother's  arms.  &quot;What  do  you  want?&quot;  said  my  fa-  ther,  very  quietly.  &quot;I  just  don't  want  you  to  be  mad,&quot;  my  mother  said  to  the  window.  A  small  steam  circle  formed  on  the  glass  where  she  was  talking.  &quot;I  was  mad,  but  I'm  not  anymore,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Maybe  we  can  find  a  sitter  or  something.  Maybe  we  should  go  get  plastered  or  something.&quot;  We  left,  my  mother  walking  ahead  of  us.  I  didn't  look  back  at  thehouse,  but  I  thought  I  felt  the  woman's  eyes  on  my  back.  She  was  going  to  run  out  any  second  and  reclaim  her  enamelled  box.  I  already  knew  that  I  would  never  give  it  to  my  mother;  she  would  be  disappointed  that  I'd  taken  it.  Be-  sides,  no  gain  or  lack  of  some  box  was  going  to  change  her  life  any.  She'd  probably  already  forgotten  about  it.  We  hadn't  gone  far,  and  I  ran  back  to  the  woman's  house  and  set  the  box  down  on  her  doorstep.  My  family  didn't  pay  much  attention  to  me.  They  were  busy  with  their  own  thoughts.  As  I  caught  back  up  with  them,  I  heard  Walker  ask  my  father,  &quot;Why  is  Mom  walking  ahead?&quot;  &quot;She's  thinking,&quot;  said  my  father.  &quot;It's  O.K.&quot;  &quot;What's  she  thinking  about?&quot;  &quot;Walker  is  practically  having  a  conversation,&quot;  said  Ben.  &quot;He  never  talks.&quot;  She's  thinking  about  things.&quot;  &quot;What  things?&quot;       &quot;I  think  Dad  wants  you  to  shut  up,&quot;  said  Ben.  &quot;So  shut  up.&quot;  &quot;But  is  she  happy  up  there?  Is  she  lonely  or  happy?  And  is  she  thinking  about  Obachan?&quot;  &quot;About  Grandma,  and  maybe  other  things,&quot;  my  father  said.  &quot;She's  lonely  but  also  happy.&quot;  &quot;How  come  both?&quot;  My  father  hesitated,  figuring.  &quot;She's  lonely  because  she  lost  her  fa-  ther  once,  and  happy  because  that's  never  going  to  happen  to  you.&quot;  The  lights  from  downtown  had  all  been  turned  off,  and  the  ground  no  longer  seemed  to  glow.  The  clouds  looked  like  long,  ragged  scrapes  across  the  sky.  Darkness  made  every  noise  loud-our  footsteps,  our  voices.  I  thought  of  how  a  couple  of  months  earlier  my  mother  had  told  my  broth,  ers  and  me  about  our  &quot;stars&quot;-the  word  she  used  for  the  personality  traits  that  she  thought  would  make  our  lives  easier.  One  night,  as  she  and  I  were  sitting  looking  over  a  grove  of  plum  trees,  she  lowered  her  voice,  as  if  she  had  a  great  secret,  and  then  she  said  she  had  finally  figured  out  what  my  star  was,  what  I  had  that  would  ease  my  way  through  the  future.  It  wasn't  Peter's  alertness,  or  Walker's  con-  centration,  or  Ben's  self-assurance.  But  I  had  a  happy  heart-my  birth-  right,  she  said.  I  sat  leaning  my  head  against  her  shoulder,  hoping  that  someday  my  happy  heart  would  take  me  to  the  right  places,  get  me  the  right  jobs,  let  me  love  the  right  man.  Then  I  wondered  whether  her  mother  had  ever  told  her  that  she  had  a  happy  heart,  and  I  asked  her  the  same  question  that  I  asked  my  father  now:  &quot;Did  you  just  make  a  wish,  or  a  promise?&quot;  