ON  THE  DECK  HERE  is  a  lion  on  the  deck  of  the  boat.  The  lion  looks  tired,  fatigued.  Waves  the  color  of  graphite.  A  grid  placed  before  the  lion,  quartering  him,  each  quarter  sub-  divided  into  sixteen  squares,  total  of  sixty-four  squares  through  which  lion  parts  may  be  seen.  The  lion  a  dirty  yellow-brown  against  the  gray  waves.  Next  to  butnot  touching  the  lion,  members  of  a  Christian  motorcycle  gang  (the  gang  is  called  Banditos  for  Jesus  and  has  nineteen  members  but  only  three  are  on  the  deck  of  the  boat)  wearing  their  colors  which  dif-  fer  from  the  colors  of  other  gangs  in  that  the  badges,  insignia,  and  so  on  have  Christian  messages:  &quot;Jesus  is  LORD&quot;  and  the  like.  The  bikers  are  thick-shouldered,  gold  earrings,  chains,beards,  red  bandannas,  a  sweet-  ness  expressed  in  the  tilt  of  their  bodies  toward  the  little  girl  wearing  shiny  steel  leg  braces  who  stands  among  them  and  smiles-they  have  chosen  her  as  their  &quot;old  lady&quot;  and  are  collect-  ing  money  for  her  education.  To  the  right  of  the  Christian  bikers  and  a  bit  closer  to  the  coils  of  razor  wire  forward  of  the  lion  is  a  parked  Camry  (in  profile)  covered  with  a  tarp  and  tied  down  with  bright  new  rope,  blocks  under  the  wheels,  the  lower  half  of  its  price  sticker  visible  on  the  window  not  completely  covered  by  canvas.  The  engine  is  running,  ex-  haust  from  the  twin  tailpipes  touching  the  thirty-five  burlap-wrapped  bales  stacked  at  the  back  of  the  car.  There  is  someone  inside  the  car,  behind  the  wheel.  This  person  is  named  Mitch.  The  exhaust  from  the  car  irritates  the  lion,  whose  head  rolls  from  side  to  side,  yellow  teeth  bared.  In  front  of  the  tied-down  red  Camry,  a  man  with  a  nosebleed  hold-  ing  a  steel  basin  under  his  chin.  The  basin  is  full  of  brown  blood,  brown-  stained  blooms  of  gauze.  He  holds  the  basin  with  one  hand  and  clutches  his  nose  with  the  other.  His  blue-and-red  striped  shirt  is  bloody.  &quot;Hello,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Hello,  hello!&quot;  Gray  institu-  tional  pants  and  brown  shoes.  There's  a  tree,  an  eight-foot  Western  fir,  in  a  heavy  terra-cotta  pot  between  his  legs.  He  appears  to  be  trying  to  avoid  bleeding  on  the  tree.  &quot;They  don't  have  anything  I  want,&quot;  he  says.  A  basketball  wedged  between  the  upper  branches  on  the  left  side.  Innmediately  to  the  left  and  forward  of  the  fir  tree,  a  yellow  fifty-five-gallon  drum  labelled  in  black  letters  &quot;PrismaTEXx,&quot;  a  hose  coiled  on  top  of  it;  bending  over  the  Prismatex,  her  back  turned,  a  young  woman  with  black  hair  in  a  scant,  thin  yellow  dress.  Concentrate  on  the  hams.  The  tilting  of  the  deck  increases;  spray.  The  captain,  a  red-faced  man  in  a  blue  blazer,  sits  in  an  armchair  be-  fore  the  young  woman,  a  can  of  beer  in  his  right  hand.  He  says,  &quot;I  would  have  done  better  work  if  I'd  had  some  kind  of  encouragement.  I've  met  a  lot  of  people  in  my  life.  I  let  my  feelings  carry  me  along.&quot;&quot;  At  the  captain's  knee  is  the  captain's  dog,  a  black-and-white  Scottie.  The  dog  is  afraid  of  the  lion,  keeps  looking  back  over  his  shoulder  at  the  lion.  The  captain  kisses  the  hem  of  the  young  woman's  yellow  dress.  There's  a  rolled  Oriental  rug  bound  with  twine  in  front  of  the  Scottie,  and  in  front  of  thata  child's  high  chair  with  a  peacock  sitting  in  it,  next  to  that  a  Harley  leaning  on  its  kickstand  (Honk  Ir  You  Love  Jesus  in  script  on  the  gas  tank).  The  owner  of  the  boat,  sister  of  the  woman  in  the  yellow  dress,  is  squatting  by  the  Harley  cook-  ing  hot  dogs  on  a  hibachi,  a  plastic  bag  of  buns  by  her  right  foot.  A  boy-  friend  lies  next  to  her,  playing  with  the  bottom  edge  of  her  yellow  shorts.  'Sometimes  she's  prim,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Don't  know  when  you  wake  up  in  the  morning  what  you're  going  to  get.  I'm  really  not  interested  just  now.  At  some  point  you  get  into  it  pret-  27  ty  far,  then  it  becomes  frightening.&quot;  &quot;A  smooth  flight  isn't  totally  de-  pendent  on  the  pilot,&quot;  says  the  next  man.  There's  a  bucket  of  raw  liver  be-  tween  his  knees,  liver  for  the  lion,  he's  up  to  his  elbows  in  liver.  Next,  a  shuffleboard  court  and  two  men  shov-  ing  the  bright-colored  disks  this  way  and  that  with  old  battered  M1  rifles.  &quot;I  put  two  forty-pound  sacks  of  cat  food  in  the  bed  and  covered  them  neat-  ly  with  a  blanket  but  she  still  didn't  get  the  message,&quot;  one  of  them  says.  Farther  along,  a  marble  bust  of  Ha-  drian  on  a  bamboo  plant  stand,  Ha-  drian's  marble  curls  curling  to  meet  Hadrian's  marble  beard,  next  to  that  someone  delivering  the  mail:  a  little  canvas  pushcart  containing  mail  pushed  in  front  of  her,  blue  uniform,  two  shades  of  blue,  red  hair.  &quot;Every-  one  likes  mail,  except  those  who  are  afraid  of  it,&quot;  she  says.  Everyone  gets  mail.  The  captain  gets  mail,  the  Christian  bikers  get  mail,  Liverman  gets  mail,  the  woman  in  the  scandal-  dress  gets  mail.  Many  copies  of  Smith-  sonian.  A  man  sitting  in  a  red  wicker  chair.  Winter  on  deck.  All  of  the  above  covered  with  snow.  Christmas  music.  Then,  spring.  A  weak  sun,  then  a  stronger  sun.  You  came  and  fell  upon  me,  I  was  sitting  in  the  wicker  chair.  The  wick-  er  exclaimed  as  your  weight  fell  upon  me.  You  were  light,  I  thought,  and  I  thought  how  good  it  was  of  you  to  do  this.  We'd  never  touched  before. "