 HER  WAY  \xe2\x80\x98  N  JE  all  knew  Kitty.  She  was  always  asking  you  questions.  Everybody  was  used  to  seeing  her  family's  name  in  the  phone  book.  In  that  same  phone  book  were  the  names  of  many  known  criminals.  A  Mr.  Ted  Bundy  appears.  Al  Capone  is  there.  William  Bonney,  who  had  the  same  name  as  the  infamous  Billy  the  Kid,  also  appears.  &quot;I  remember  Kitty  tape-recording  me  all  the  time,&quot;  says  Don  Johnson  (not  his  real  name).  &quot;Everybody  knew  Kitty.  By  the  time  she  was  twenty,  she'd  already  tape-recorded  everybody  in  the  neighborhood  twenty  or  thirty  times.&quot;  Kitty  was,  right  from  the  start,  a  leader.  She  organized  the  pep  club  at  her  high  school,  was  active  in  her  church,  played  the  piano,  and  tripped  up  farm  animals.  She  was  a  very  busy  girl,&quot;  said  Ed  (Too  Short)  Smith,  a  longtime  friend  of  the  family  (not  his  real  name).  &quot;She  was  the  first  person  that  ever  told  me  to  pour  borax  in  my  ear.  She  was  always  the  person  you  would  go  to  in  emergencies.&quot;  Her  parents  understood  how  much  tape-recording  meant  to  her  at  an  early  age.  Her  father  was  a  carpet  installer  and  her  mother  was,  at  one  time,  one  of  the  major  interpreters  of  Thomas  Holcroft  and  a  damn  good  hand  with  anything  hydraulic  (not  their  real  jobs).  &quot;We  gave  her  ev-  erything,&quot;  they  probably  said.  &quot;We  don't  feel  real  great  about  the  way  she  turned  out,  but  that's  none  of  our     business.  We're  only  her  parents.&quot;  Yet  she  had  that  something,  that  something  that  you  can't  define  or  even  recognize.  Yet  it  was  always  there.  That  something.  Finally  some-  body  learned  how  to  take  advantage  of  that  something.  The  man  for  the  job  turned  out  to  be  Magic  Johnson  (not  his  real  name).  &quot;I  thought  that  if  I  could  get  Kitty  to  say  nothing  good  about  anybody  for  maybe  three  orfour  months,  if  we  could  just  pack  it  all  in  like  that,  then  we  would  really  be  after  something,&quot;  Magic  said.  &quot;I  knew  that  the  mood  of  the  country  was  just  right  for  it.&quot;  IN  the  early  days,  Kitty  could  only  say  bad  things  about  people  under  twenty-five.  In  time,  it  became  vital  for  her  to  be  able  to  speak  badly  of  everyone,  no  matter  what  the  age.  Al-  most  immediately,  as  if  by  instinct,  she  amazed  everyone  by  saying  that  Ber-  nard  Baruch  liked  to  tongue-kiss.  All  over  the  country  people  picked  up  on  this.  There  was  someone  new  on  the  horizon,  and  this  someone  had  nothing  nice  to  say.  Her  climb  was  meteoric.  She  be-  came,  overnight,  a  household  word.  Her  work  appeared  in  every  major  magazine  and  her  books  were  read  everywhere.  She  appeared  on  talk  shows,  news  shows.  She  continued,  however,  to  trip  up  farm  animals.  &quot;Why  not?&quot;  she  might  have  said.  &quot;They're  there,  aren't  they?&quot;  Then  Kitty  met  Herman  Melville,  and  everything  changed.  (I'm  pretty  sure  that's  not  his  real  name.)  &quot;Mel-  ville  was  tall,  intense,  bearded,  aloof  -everything  Kitty  was  after,&quot;  says  a  mutual  friend.  &quot;Herman  Melville  became  a  kind  of  obsession  with  her.  Melville  was  cruel  to  her,  but  then  I  guess  you  could  say  that  Kitty  was  the  same  way  toward  him.  They  also  both  have  really  big  lips,  don't  you  think?&quot;  Melville  and  Kitty.  They  chased  each  other  over  several  continents.  Once,  after  one  of  their  notorious  quarrels,  Melville  locked  himself  in  a  footlocker  with  some  ricotta  cheese  and  said  not  to  bother  him  unless  Kitty  apologized.  The  next  day  they  were  all  lovey-dovey,  walking  hand  in  hand  tosee  an  illegal  pit-bull  fight.  It  was  all  a  game  to  them.  One  night  Kitty  happened  to  pick  up  a  copy  of  &quot;Moby  Dick.&quot;  She  read  the  inscription:  In  token  of  my  admiration  for  his  genius  this  book  is  inscribed  to  Nathaniel  Haw-  thorne.  &quot;You  could  have  fried  an  egg  on  her  forehead  when  she  saw  that  in-  scription,&quot;  says  a  close  friend,  who  didn't  want  me  to  refer  to  him  by  any  name.  &quot;I  tried  to  explain  the  big  mis-  take  she  was  making,  but  it  was  no  use.  I  told  her  that  Melville  and  Natty  Hawthorne  went  way  back  together.  Everybody  knows  that  the  two  of  them  and  Bronson  (Lips)  Alcott  played  in  the  same  sax  section  for  Kay  Kyser  (not  his  name,  but  close).  She  just  wouldn't  listen  to  reason  when  she  got  in  one  of  her  moods.  She  was  almost  suicidal.  The  next  day,  though,  I'd  see  her  and  Melville  like  a  couple  of  love-  birds,  monkeying  with  some  Tylenol  packages.&quot;  Of  course,  Kitty  and  Melville  were  never  meant  to  be.  After  &quot;the  Herman  thing,&quot;  as  her  friends  called  it,  Kitty  fell  into  many  arms-and  of  course  she  screamed.  Someone  who  claims  to  have  known  Kitty  says,  &quot;She  hasher  problems.  Who  doesn't?  But  all  in  all  she's  a  kind  and  loving  person,  and  a  wonder-  ful  tape-recorder  operator,  and  a  ter-  rific  person  who  wouldn't  think  twice  about  writing  a  book  about  anybody  who  got  in  her  way.&quot;  "