b"REMEMBERING  I1  FORG  ET  WHAT  What  were  you  doing  on  September  1,  1985?  Do  you  recall?  Do  you  recall  what  y  ou  had  for  lunch  on  the  firs  t  d  ay  of  September,  1985?  Do  you  recall  wh  at  t  ime  y  ou  went  home  ?  Do  you  recall  fili  ng  a  s  tory  that  day?  No,  none  of  the  a  bove.  So  fairness  for  you  is  fairness  for  the  President.  Speakes,  PRESIDENT  Rragan  is  taking  a  bunch  of  heat  these  days  from  people  who  want  him  to  &quot;come  clean&quot;  and  &quot;tell  the  truth&quot;  about  what  he  knew  and  when  he  knew  it.  O.K.,  here's  what  I  think  happened  with  the  whole  weapons-to-4972616e-and-cash-to-  the-Contras  rigmarole  (in  which,  I  hasten  to  point  out,  I  have  no  direct  personal  involvement).  My  theory  goes  like  this:  The  President  knew  everything.  But  then  he  forgot.  So?  Believe  me.  Things  likethis  hap-  pen.  The  thought  that  it  had  obviously  happened  to  President  Reagan  oc-  curred  to  me  the  other  evening  (well,  technically,  this  all  got  started  in  the  late  afternoon,  but  it  was  already  dark  outside,  you  know  how  it  does  that  this  time  of  year),  when  what's-his-name  (it'll  come  to  me  in  a  minute;  he's  my  upstairs  neighbor  and  a  friend)  called  and  said  he'd  locked  his  keys  inside  his  apartment  that  morning  and  wanted  to  drop  by  my  place  to  pick  up  the  spare  set  he  gave  me  quite  a  while  ago  (my  guess  isit  was  sometime  last  spring,  but  it  might  even  have  been  last  year;  I  seem  to  recall  being  heavily  medicated  at  the  time,  trying  to  recover  from  either  some  painful  periodontal  work  or  a  sprained  neck)  when  he,  my  neighbor  Randy  (Rendy!-of  course,  Randy),  reluctantly  decided  to  change  his  door  locks,  because  he  had  some-  how  misplaced  his  keys  and  was  afraid  they  might  have  fallen  into  the  wrong  hands.  (It  might  have  been  that  slipped-Mickey  episode  with  the  blond  gal  from  [REDACTED]-or  was  it  Ot-  tawa'?&quot;)  The  point  is,  you  know  that  feeling  when  your  keys-so  essential  to  your  sense  of  domestic  security-are  just  floating  erownd  and  you're  not  sure  where.  Anyway,  Randy  called  and  said  he  was  about  to  leave  the  office  (he  works  for  an  insurance  com-  pany-a  big  one;  they  advertise  a  lot  on  TV  and  radio,  and  if  I  heard  the  name  I'd  be  a  safe  bet  to  recognize  it-  but  I'm  not  sure  just  exactly  what  he  does  for  the  insurance  company,  al-  most  as  if  he's  been  deliberately  vague  about  it  whenever  I've  pressed  him  for  details  about  what  it  is  that  people  who  work  for  insurance  companies  do)  and  he  wanted  to  be  sure  I'd  be  able  to  buzz  him  into  the  building  and  give  him  the  spare  set.  I  said  sure,  come  on  by,  I'll  be  here.  I  went  to  the  fairly  White  House  spokesman  small  fancy-French-mustard  jar  where  I  keep  spare  keys  when  they're  not  directly  on  my  person,  and  I  removed  Randy's  set  and  put  them  (I  sweer  I  remember  putting  them)  in  one  of  my  pockets.  As  I  was  doing  that  the  phone  rang  again,  and  it  turned  out  to  be  my  great  good  pal  Bubba  calling.  (Bubba  is  a  nickname,  of  course;  the  name  on  his  birth  certificate  is  almost  certainly  Clarence,  or  perhaps  Rodney-I'd  have  to  check  with  Bubba.)  Bubba  and  I  have  been  friends  since  boyhood,  when  we  were  in  either  Cub  Scouts  or  ballroom-dancing  class  together.  Bubba's  an  ex-marine  (unless  he's  ex-  Air  Force;  I  have  unusually  flat  feet  and  I  drew  a  high  lottery  number  back  when  I  was  eligible  for  the  military  draft,  and  I've  never  been  able  to  keep  the  various  branches  of  the  armed  forces  straight  in  my  mind)  and  a  mighty  fine  person,  whonow  works  for  a  company  that  exports  industrial-  strength  cleaners  (let's  leave  it  at  that  for  the  time  being;  if  it's  not  cleaning  supplies  it's  some  kind  of  heavy-duty  lubricating  gel)  to  'Third  World  countries,  so  he  does  a  lot  of  travelling  and  often  passes  through  town.  Now,  where  was  I'-oh,  right,  Bubba's  phone  call.  See,  whenever  Bubba  has  some  free  time  and  I'm  not  busy  (sometimes  I  am,  sometimes  I'm  not;  it  depends  upon  certain  factors  I  don't  want  to  get  into  right  now)  we  go  out  for  a  bite  and  a  couple  of  drinks.  So  Bubba  wants  to  know  what  I'm  doing  for  dinner,  and  I  say  I've  got  no  plans,  and  he  says  well,  then  let's  meet  at  this  &quot;little  French  bistro&quot;  (my  honest  opinion  isit's  more  Alsatian,  or  even  Austrian,  than  straight  French,  which  means  it  might  not  even  qualify  as  a  genuine  bistro)  near  where  he's  stay-  ing,  and  I  say  fine,  I'm  on  my  way.  Maybe  you  can  guess  the  rest.  I  go  to  meet  Bubba  for  dinner  and  we  start  reminiscing  about  old  times  back  in  our  home  town  (I  Znow  the  name  of  the  town,  but  what  difference  does  it  make?),  and  he  tells  that  story  he  knows  I  love  so  much  (the  one  about     27,  his  father  being  called  to  testify  before  a  legislative  committee  that  was  inves-  tigating  the  state  highway  commis-  sioner,  who  was  a  good  friend  of  Bubba's  dad,  and  they  asked  Bubba's  dad  a  bunch  of  questions  and  he  kept  answering,  &quot;I  don't  remember,&quot;  and  when  it  was  all  over  Bubba  asked  him,  \xc2\xab&quot;Dad,  did  you  remember  or  didn't  you  remember?,&quot;  and  his  dad  said,  &quot;I  re-  membered  to  say  'I  don't  remem-  ber'  &quot;),  and  that  gets  us  in  such  a  fine  mood  we  end  up  putting  away  maybe  one  or  two  bottles  of  wine  (red  wine,  almost  definitely;  we'd  both  ordered  a  veal  something  that  was  one  of  the  spe-  cials)  more  than  we  normally  would,  and  then  I  look  at  my  watch  and  it  says  it's  nearly  midnight,  and  an  alarm  inside  my  brain  starts  going  off  and  I  realize,  Yikes!  Randy!  He's  locked  out!  So  I  threw  some  money  down  on  the  table  and  shook  Bubba's  hand  and  beat  it  out  of  there  and  found  acab  (a  Checker,  for  sure-there  are  so  few  of  those  left),  and  I  was  home  in  eight  minutes,  twelve  at  the  most.  All  the  while  riding  downtown  I  was  think-  ing,  Boy,  Randy's  probably  been  sit-  ting  in  front  of  my  door  for  about  five  hours.  Is  he  ever  going  to  be  steamed!  But,  as  it  turned  out,  he  wasn't  angry  at  all.  In  fact,  he  was  the  embarrassed  party.  I  called  him  at  work  the  next  day  (come  to  think  of  it,  I  don't  know  how  I  tracked  him  down,  since  the  name  of  the  company  he  works  for  still  hasn't  come  to  me),  and  before  I  could  fall  all  over  myself  apologizing  he  told  me,  in  a  sheepish  way,  that  he  hadn't  actually  forgotten  his  keys-they  were  in  his  briefcase  and  he  found  them  before  he  left  the  office.  And  then  when  he  got  home  he  forgot  to  ring  my  bell  to  tell  me  he  didn't  need  my  help  after  all.  He  said  he  hoped  I  hadn't  waited  around  a  long  time  or  changed  my  plans  for  the  evening.  I  decided  not  to  mention  at  that  moment  that  I  had  no  idea  where  his  spare  set  of  keys  was,  the  ones  I  thought  I  had  stuck  in  my  pocket  (I  might  have  inadvertently  thrown  them  down  on  the  table  in  the  restaurant  or  I  might  have  left  them  in  the  cab  or  I  might  never  have  had  them).  Instead,  I  recovered  my  cool  very  quickly.  &quot;Hey,  Randy,&quot;  I  told  him.  &quot;Don't  worry  about  it.  Busy,  im-  portant  people  forget  stuff.  'These  things  happen.  We  should  be  grateful  that  we  live  in  a  democracy,  where  any-  thing  is  possible.&quot;  I  think  he  appreciat-  ed  that.  My  recollection  of  his  reaction  at  the  time  is  that  he  pretty  much  ap-  preciated  that.  -Mark  Sinorr  "