T h e w e i g h t a l o n e ( 3 l b s . 7 % o z . ) w o u l d s e e m t h e r i g h t h e f t f o r a d o o r s t o p a n d t h e w r o n g o n e f o r a b e s t s e l l e r . B u t [ S t e p h e n ] K i n g h a s b e c o m e a b r a n d n a m e h i m s e l f , a n d h i s p u b l i s h e r s o r d e r e d a s u p e r n a t u r a l f i r s t p r i n t i n g o f 8 0 0 , 0 0 0 c o p i e s - a n d t h e n d e m a n d e d f i v e a d d i t i o n a l p r i n t i n g s , f o r a c u r r e n t t o t a l o f 1 , 0 2 5 , 0 0 0 c o p i e s . P I THE terror, which has already lasted fifteen weeks and which may never end, for all I know, began with the men and the chain- saws. The men The chainsaws Every twelve months or so they came to the verdant glens and leafy forests outside the small mill town of Weesquapeckett, in central [REDACTED]. Sometimes they came a little sooner, sometimes a little later ... but always they came. (The men. The chainsaws.) They came early in the morning usually, when the dew was still on the fields and the mist was rising from the Weesquapeckett River, which flowed right through town, and by nightfall they were gone, carrying away with them, on long rumbling trucks, hun- dreds of thousands of feet, millions of feet, of prime [REDACTED] timber. Pine and spruce, maple and birch, oak and ash -it didn't matter as long as it was wood. But this time it was different. The men came, big men, some of them missing fingers and toes, and they stayed for days on end. Everywhere you went you could hear the awful brrrpppbrrrpppbrrrppp of their saws, and the air was filled with a raw, resinous smell, an earthy, sweet smell, a fateful and ineluctable smell. It was the smell of sap-the smell of trees cut down before their time. The men levelled the pinewoods be- hind the Weesquapeckett Elementary School, they took down the ancient elms in front of the Congregation- al Church, they clear-cut the Gillespies' apple orchard, they lopped off the pink dogwood that old Pete Darby had planted on his wedding day, fifty-five years before. And one morning a small boy in fadedFruit of the Loom pajamas woke to see one of the chainsaw men standing by /is tree -the one from which Dad, the boy's dad, had hung a neat old Goodyear tire as a swing. The boy in the Fruit of the Looms was Chuckie Douglas. He was six. The year before he had been five, and in another year he would be seven. After that he might be eight. &quot;H-h-h-h-hey, w-w-w-what are -iStefan Kanfer in Time. you d-d-d-d-d-d-d-doing?&quot; Chuckie stuttered. He stuttered a lot, and when he wasn't stuttering he was suffering from tonsillitis and adenoids and asthma. He was the sort of boy whose dialogue you might reproduce typo- graphically by just closing your eyes and holding down a few keys on your I.B.M. Selectric. The man lifted up his protective goggles and squinted at the boy. Then he grinned, in a way that was both leering and goofy-an expression that, had he been older, Chuckie might have recognized from dust jackets and American Express commercials-and he said, &quot;Paper, sonny. Got to have more paper.&quot; He put his goggles back down, yanked once, twice on the starter cord of his chainsaw-it was a big black-and-yellow McCulloch, still smoking in the early-morning stillness -and BRRRRRRRRRRR ppp A THOUGHT is working its way up through Chuckie's brain, like groundwater seeping into a base- ment where the Black &amp; Decker sump pump is on the blink. It is not a very clear thought, just a trickle-some- thing you might not even notice until the Du Pont Antron carpeting in your rec room was half soaked. Chuckie's thought has to do with the chainsaw men and those movies that come to the Weesquapeckett Twin-Vu, out on Route 1-those movies about the kids who can start fires by crossing their eyes or who talk to their cars or have pet gerbils with rabies or who always know where to find dead stuff. Every   time the chainsaw men come, it seems to Chuckie, one of those movies is sure to follow-not right away maybe, probably not for months, but sooner or later-and Chuckie wonders if there is any connection. He ponders this for a while and then decides: Naaaah. The thought goes away, and it's as if that sump pump had suddenly kicked back on again-rrrrwhhhEEEEEEEEE-and was beginning to suck all that base- ment water out. But weeks later, if you went down the cellar steps and sniffed carefully, you might still smell a hint of mildew, of dampness, of moisture. Your basement wouldn't be flooded, or anything like that, and you could still watch TV down there, or listento records, but it wouldn't be completely dry, either, and someday you might have trouble selling your house. WHEN the men had finally gone this time, there was not a tree to be found anywhere in Weesquapeckett, and the surrounding countryside was so flat and clear that you could look all the way to the Atlantic Ocean, a hun- dred miles away. But except for Chuckie no one seemed to notice. That autumn the townfolk went out just the same and raked their yards, stirring up clouds of thick, heavy dust that lingered for days. In Miss Han- son's third-grade class at Weesqua- peckett Elementary-which would be Chuckie's class in just three years- the children wrote their autumn com- positions just as they always had, cor- rectly using, in order, the words &quot;chlorophyll,&quot; &quot;foliage,&quot; and &quot;rus- set,&quot; and at recess they jumped cheer- fully into imaginary leaf piles, never once complaining about their sprained knees and broken ankles. Early in October something else happened. One rainy night a man named Lew Dickinson was driving in a panel truck from the Harrisonburg, [REDACTED], branch of the R. R. Donnel- ley &amp; Sons printing company up to Bangor, [REDACTED], where he was sup- posed to drop off fifty cartons of he didn't know what-whatever goddam best-seller they'd loaded him up with now. He was making pretty good time, listening to an old Everly Brothers tune on the radio and tapping the beat on the steering wheel, when he came over the Weesquapeckett Bridge-a solid-iron trestle bridge built in 1924 by the Portland Iron Works and dedi- cated by Calvin Coolidge himself, a bridge that had withstood decades of heavy logging traffic-and his truck dropped right through the roadway " b" and  into  the  Weesquapeckett  River  be-  low.  It  bobbed  there  for  a  minute,  then  tipped  and  sank,  and  who  knows  where  it  finally  came  to  rest.  All  that  could  be  seen  the  next  morning  was  an  enormous  hole  in  the  asphalt,  a  terrible  wreckage  of  ironwork  underneath,  and,  floating  on  the  icy  waters  a  mile  or  so  downstream,  some  sodden  card-  board  flaps  and  a  few  sheets  of  paper  printed  in  Garamond  No.  3.  A  couple  of  weeks  later,  on  Hallow-  een  night,  part  of  the  main  floor  fell  through  at  the  Weesquapeckett  Public  Library,  sending  the  entire  section  of  books  shelved  under  &quot;Authors  Ka-Ki&quot;  crashing  into  the  basement,  where  Bob  Wilson,  the  night  janitor,  was  sneaking  a  smoke.  He  was  crushed  almost  instantly-turned  to  mush,  really-but  not  before  his  hideous  scream  had  awakened  the  entire  town.  The  police  determined  later  that  the  shelving  and  floor  beams  beneath  had  been  subjected  to  what  they  called  &quot;al-  most  supernatural  stress.&quot;  They  also  found  out  that  Lew  Dickinson  and  Bob  Wilson  had  both  failed  ninth,  grade  English:  neither  one  was  much  of  a  reader.  SOMETHING  was  wrong  with  Dad.  For  weeks  now  he  had  been  coming  home  with  something  big  and  heavy  in  his  Samsonite  briefcase-  something  he  didn't  want  Chuckie  or  anyone  else  to  know  about-and  he  complained  all  the  time  about  how  much  his  right  arm  hurt.  No  one  was  supposed  to  know  this,  but  that  arm  was  now  at  least  three  feet  longer  than  the  left.  When  Dad  thought  he  was  alone  and  allowed  himself  to  relax,  the  arm  would  come  shooting  out  from  his  sleeve  and  dangle  almost  to  the  floor.  The  right  cuff  of  Dad's  Arrow  drip-  dry  barely  reached  to  his  elbow.  There  was  something  else,  too.  In-  stead  of  drinking  Miller  Lite  in  front  of  the  TV,  the  way  he  usually  did,  and  making  fun  of  that  Louis  Rukey-  ser  on  &quot;Wall  Street  Week,&quot;  Dad  now  went  up  to  his  room  right  after  supper  every  night,  lugging  that  same  mon-  strously  heavy  briefcase.  He  would  yawn  and  stretch  (his  left  arm)  and  pretend  to  be  tired,  but  Chuckie  was  pretty  sure  he  didn't  sleep  in  there.  The  bedroom  light  stayed  on  for  hours  -Chuckie  could  see  it  shining  from  underneath  the  door,  casting  a  sickly,  guillotine-shaped  glow  on  the  hall  carpet-and  when  Dad  came  down  in  the  morning,  his  right  hand  thrust  deep  in  his  pocket,  his  eyes  would  be  black  and  burning,  filled  with  horrible  intelligence,  horrible  ewereness,  and  if  you  asked  him  to  pass  the  Parkay  mar-  garine  or  the  Welch's  grape  jelly  he  would  pretend  not  to  hear.  Once,  though,  he  forgot,  and  when  Mom  asked  for  the  Domino  sugar  he  let  his  right  hand,  attached  to  that  horrible  elastic  limb  of  his,  reach  across  the  table.  But  he  migjudged  the  distance.  There  was  a  thumping,  splatting  sound,  the  sound  a  car  makes  running  over  a  dead  animal  on  the  road,  and  Chuckie's  cereal  bowl,  still  half  full,  went  00000000O0O000000000  whooshing  through  the  air,  while,  drop  by  drop  by  drop,  his  milk  leaked  down,  cold  and  white  and  lifeless,  upon  the  uncaring  linoleum.  AR,  far  from  [REDACTED],  on  the  Atlan-  tic,  the  Italian  liner  L'Avventura  was  a  day  out  of  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  on  the  second  leg  of  a  trip  from  New  York  to  Kingston  and  back,  when  the  mate,  Guido  Correlli,  noticed  that  she  was  listing  badly  to  port  and  taking  in  water  through  the  third-  class  portholes.  He  rang  the  purser  on  the  ship's  phone  and  yelled,  &quot;M  our  ballast,  she's  shifting!  Look  at  the  manifesto.  The  cargo  in  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  we  have  taken  on  too  much-too  much  petrolio,  or  some-  thing&quot;&quot;  &quot;Manifest  shows  nothing,  Signore,&quot;  " b" the  purser  reported.  &quot;Niente.  We  take  on  nothing  in  [REDACTED],  except-un  momento-here  it  is.  87,  just  a  couple  of  members  of  the  Book-of-the-Month  Club  ...&quot;  At  that  very  instant,  Chuckie  Douglas,  who  had  been  asleep  in  his  room  in  W  eesquapeckett,  awoke  with  a  start.  He  had  been  dreaming  a  dream  so  awful  he  couldn't  even  remember  what  it  was,  but  what  was  even  worse  was  that  now,  even  though  he  was  wide  awake,  he  seemed  to  have  a  bright-  orange  life  jacket  on  over  his  pajamas.  om  is  going  through  Dad's  briefcase.  From  somewhere  she  hears  a  voice  calling  Stop,  stop!  You're  violating  his  civil  rights!  but  she  re-  fuses  to  listen,  she  keeps  searching.  She  locates  what  she  is  looking  for,  and  there  is  only  one  way  to  describe  the  sensation  she  experiences  in  her  head  as  she  settles  down  with  what  she  has  found.  It  is  as  if  she  had  turned  on  the  refrigerator  light  in  the  deepest,  darkest,  coldest  part  of  her  mind-the  place  where  leftovers  are  kept.  It  is  not  very  bright,  this  little  bulb.  It  wouldn't  work  as  a  Kodak  flash  at-  tachment.  It's  not  even  as  strong  as  the  overhead  dome  light  in  a  Chevy  Camaro.  But  it  does  the  job.  On  the  wire  racks  there,  down  inthatpart  of  herself  where  she  never  looks,  Mom  sees  things  not  meant  to  be  seen:  half-  filled  jars  of  gooey  brown  stuff,  Saran  Wrapped  hunks  of  moldy,  cheeselike  crud,  square  Tupperware  containers  of  some  whitish-gray  guck.  Yeccech!  Mom  can't  believe  it.  How  did  this  stuff  get  here,  inside  her  mind?  She  quickly  slams  the  door  and  the  light  goes  out.  But  she  knows  she'll  be  back.  She  tilts  her  head  back  and  shivers,  a  wave  of  revulsion  surging  through  her,  a  wave  so  powerful  it  makes  her  smile.  She  just  might  not  get  around  to  fixing  dinner  tonight.  NOW  they  are  both  up  there  all  the  time.  Mom  and  Dad  In  bed     Chuckie  tries  to  ignore  them.  He  washes  his  own  clothes  in  Woolite  in  the  kitchen  sink  and  he  eats  Chef  Boy-Ar-Dee  straight  from  the  can.  But  he  can't  entirely  keep  his  mind  off  that  upstairs  bedroom  and  what's  going  on  up  there,  there  on  the  bed  with  the  Laura  Ashley  sheets  and  matching  pillowcases  and  dust  ruffles.  Sometimes,  if  he  listens  carefully,  he  can  hear  his  parents  whispering  in  there,  reciting  multisyllable  words  in  a  language  he  has  never  heard  before:  &quot;batrachian,&quot;  &quot;chitinous,&quot;   &quot;ichor.&quot;  And  there  are  other  sounds,  too:  pants  and  groans  and  cries  of  pain  and  surprise.  What  are  they  doing  in  there?  &quot;M  -m-m-m-m-  m-  mom?  D-d-d-d-d-d-d-  dad?&quot;  The  entire  house  seems  to  be  holding  its  breath,  everything  is  going  black,  until  Chuckie  remembers  something.  He  opens  his  mouth  and  begins  to  ex-  hale,  inhale.  Then  he  pushes  open  the  bedroom  door  and  forces  himself  to  look.  They  are  both  lying  on  the  bed  (Mom,  Dad),  his  mother  on  the  right  side,  his  father  on  the  left,  their  heads  almost  touching.  Something  heavy  is  pressing  on  Dad's  chest,  flattening  him  back  against  the  mattress,  causing  him  to  heave  with  exertion.  His  face  is  red  and  sweaty,  his  eyeballs  are  bulging  and  feverishly  flitting  from  left  to  right.  Mom  is  leaning  over  him,  rapidly  moving  her  lips  and  tearing  with  her  fingers  at  the  thing  on  topof  Dad-the  heavy  thing,  shining  and  brownish  in  the  light  from  the  bedside  table-and  the  thing  seems  to  fly  apart  now  into  hundreds,  thousands  of  flut-  tering  white  pieces.  Suddenly  Chuckie  understands.  They  will  want  him  to  do  this,  too,  someday.  They  will  make  him.  They  will  force  him  to  do  it  for  hours  and  hours  until  he  says  he  likes  it.  The  thing  is  a  book,  and  Mom  and  Dad  are  Oh  my  God  they  are  reading. "