  STEALING  TIME  do  not  really  mean  this.  Kate  says  that  she  was  in  a  good  mood  all  morning  but  the  closer  she  got  to  my  house,  no  offense,  the  more  depressed  she  got.  We  say,  what's  new?!  I  tell  her  about  the  night  before  at  the  bar-Jay  and  Allie,  blah,  blah,  Jim  and  Lynette,  blah,  blah,  how  Jim  said  the  kids  broke  the  bed.  She  tells  me  how  Josie  wrote  her  birthday  list  in  purple  crayon.  We  go  to  the  bathroom  together-  an  old  habit.  I  comb  my  hair,  looking  over  her  shoulder  while  she  puts  on  lipstick.  Let's  go  before  we  lose  our  nerve,  we  say-we'll  go  and  get  it  over  with  and  we  won't  have  to  go  again  for  a  long  time.  I  put  on  my  scarf,  she  puts  on  her  gloves,  and  we  go  out  to  the  car.  You  drive,  she  says.  No,  you,  I  say,  and  she  does.  As  she  starts  the  car,  I  move  the  foil-wrapped  pot  of  begonias  out  of  the  way.  Pink,  damp,  they  scent  the  car.  She  says  what  else  then,  and  I  tell  her  about  the  fight  at  the  bar  last  night.  There  were  four  women  sitting  at  the  table  two  tables  over  from  where  I  was  sitting  with  Jim  and  Lynette,  and  one  of  them  was  fat,  and  one  was  fat  and  ugly,  and  one  was  fat,  ugly,  and  mean.  And  the  fourth?  Kate  asks.  The  fourth  was  average-looking-not  fat,  not  mean.  And  I  tell  her  how  I  had  noticed  them  before  the  fight  because  I  ET\xc2\xb0S  not  go,  I  say,  even  though  I   they  talked  loud  and  because  they  went  out  on  forays  into  the  bar,  looking  for  someone  to  dance  with  or  to  buy  them  a  drink,  and  then  coming  back  in  be-  tween  songs  or  drinks  to  compare  notes.  One  of  them  said,  &quot;I  had  to  ask  three  guys  before  I  found  a  son  of  a  bitch  who  was  game.&quot;  Her  name  was  Marcella  and  she  was  the  one  who  got  into  the  fight  just  before  the  bar  closed.  She  accused  someone  at  another  table  of  looking  at  her  in  a  certain  unpleas-  ing  way;  the  looker  accused  Marcella  of  dropping  cigarette  ash  in  her  drink;  then  they  fought  and  then  Marcella  accused  her  of  breaking  her  glasses.  The  police  were  called  because  the  bouncer  (who  was  really  the  bar  owner's  mother-in-law)  felt  unequal  to  the  task.  When  we  left,  there  were  two  police  cars  and  fifteen  or  twenty  people  in  the  parking  lot,  but  no  ac-  tion.  &quot;She  started  it,  let  her  finish  it,&quot;  Marcella  was  saying  to  one  of  the  policemen.  It's  a  dumb  story,  but  we  laugh  hard  enough  to  make  our  stomachs  hurt,  and  it  takes  us  all  the  way  to  the  hospital.  Parking.  The  pedestrian  bridge  has  a  sign  that  says  &quot;ProrestrRIANS  OnLy.  No  VrEx1ctEs&quot;  and  we  discuss  the  possibility  of  a  chase  scene  and  the  problem  posed  for  vehicles  by  the  steps,  the  difficulties  of  turning  a  car  to  the  right  or  the  left  at  the  bottom,  where  z  ___  OCTOBER  27,  1986  the  steps  give  way  to  a  narrow  drive-  way.  It  can't  be  done,  we  decide.  At  the  hospital  desk,  we  ask  for  Aunt  Ren.  The  receptionist  wears  perfect  fuchsia  lipstick  that  just  misses  the  points  of  her  upper  lip;  it's  laid  on  thick,  with  a  chiselled  edge,  vivid  purple  against  brown.  She  gives  us  cards  and  complicated  directions:  south,  D-Ward,  North  Corridor,  desk  on  left.  Did  you  get  that?  Kate  says.  No,  I  say.  We  are  looking  into  a  mirror  wall  while  we  wait  for  the  elevator.  We  see  with  relief  that  we  look  good  -no  older,  our  hair  is  O.K.  Upstairs,  there  is  a  twisting  way  through  doors  and  corridors  to  the  A-Wing  and  a  big  open  room  that  looks  out  over  the  city.  We  are  here.  Our  cousin,  Graham,  is  sitting  there  with  Aunt  Ren,  his  mother.  She  is  blue  and  white-blue  dress,  white  hair,  pale  skin.  He  is  golden-tan,  blondish  hair,  gold-and-white  shirt,  tan  slacks,  gold  watch.  She  cries  when  we  come  in.  She  cries  when  Kate  opens  up  the  pot  of  begonias.  It's  the  stroke,  Graham  says.  We  know.  We  talk:  about  his  house;  his  wife,  Laura;  his  son's  wedding;  how  Laura  must  buy  a  dress.  Laura  will  come  tomor-  row.  Laura  understands  Aunt  Ren  better  than  he  does,  he  says.  It  is  like  charades.  Graham  has  things  to  say  about  kids  today,  real  estate,  556e6974656420537461746573n  cars.  I  say  how  my  daughter  wants  a  phone,  a  car,  to  move  out.  I  say  my  twenty-year  high-  school  reunion  will  be  this  year,  ha  ha.  I  did  not  get  to  my  tenth,  because  I  was  in  a  bad  mood.  Graham  occasion-  ally  talks  as  if  Aunt  Ren  is  not  there,  but  it  is  hard  not  to.  She  tries  to  tell  us  about  something  that  looks  like  climbing  a  rope?  A  ladder?  She  does  this  several  times  ad  and  is  frustrated  when  we  don't  know  what  she  means.  Graham  takes  his  opportunity  and  leaves.  We  say  what  a  handsome  son  he  is,  and  she  looks  over  her  shoulder  with  difficulty  to  watch  him  all  the  way  out  the  door.  She  makes  it  plain  somehow  that  she  wants  to  go  back  to  her  room;  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  she  walks  with  difficulty,  leaning  on  our  arms.  She  knows  where  her  room  is.  Her  roommate,  Stella,  is  there,  lying  in  bed,  younger  and  more  alert  than  Aunt  Ren.  The  TV  is  on,  show-  ing  a  pro-bowling  tourna-  ment;  the  room  is  full  of  sun.  We  help  Aunt  Ren  into  the  wheelchair.  She  is  heavy,  hard  to  move.  I  look  out  the  window.  We're  on  the  eighth  floor,  and  you  can  see  out  across  the  city.  I  say  that  you  should  be  able  to  see  Holy  Sacrament  from  here  but  you  can't.  Holy  Sacrament,  I  explain  to  Stella-our  old  parish.  Leaning  against  the  hos-  pital-room  windowsill  in  the  sun,  we  eat  chocolates.  Aunt  Ren  says  something  to  Stella,  who  understands  her,  although  we  cannot.  Stella  answers  that  the  nurse  didn't  come,  that  she  herself  has  been  in  bed  since  two  o'clock,  and  that  her  arm  is  caught  under-  neath  her.  &quot;Is  it  still?&quot;  I  ask.  &quot;Maybe  I  could  fix  it.&quot;  And  I  do:  I  pull  it  out.  &quot;It's  paralyzed,&quot;  Stella  says.  &quot;Where  shall  I  put  it?&quot;I  say.  She  asks  me  to  put  it  on  her  chest,  crossed  with  the  other  arm.  &quot;Here,&quot;  she  says,  &quot;where  I  can  keep  ahold  of  it.&quot;  Kate  makes  a  place  for  the  begonias  among  the  dozen  or  so  other  plants  and  flower  arrangements.  I  read  the  cards  to  Aunt  Ren  that  are  taped  up  on  the  wall.  I  read  out  the  hospital-  activities  calendar-movies,  bingo,  a  magician.  (Aunt  Ren  wrinkles  her  face  to  express  distaste,  and  I  have  a  sudden  picture  of  a  young  man,  skinny  in  a  sweatshirt,  doing  tricks  with  ties  and  balloons  and  bunches  of  cloth  flowers  for  a  group  of  old  people  in  wheelchairs,  in  bathrobes  and  slip-  pers.)I  look  at  her  chart  and  feel  bad  when  I  see  the  part  about  bladder  and  bowel  control,  even  though  all  the  marks  are  positive.  I  see  the  announce,  ments  on  the  wall  about  therapy.  I  guess  then  what  she  was  talking  about  before,  with  the  in-and-out  motions  of  her  hands:  occupational  therapy,  bas-  kets,  clay.  There  is  a  card  on  the  wall     that  says  &quot;Restraint  in  wheelchair.&quot;  We  say  we  must  leave.  &quot;Why,  why?&quot;  Aunt  Ren  says  at  once.  &quot;Here  arethe  words  she  can  say,&quot;  Stella  tells  us  now,  suddenly  chatty.  &quot;She  can  say  'nothing,'  'oh,  my  God,'  'yes,&quot;  'no,'  'what,&quot;  'why,&quot;  'same.&quot;  &quot;  &quot;Nothing,&quot;  Aunt  Ren  says  after  Stella.  &quot;Nothing,  nothing.&quot;  When  we  leave,  we  hear  them  talk-  ing  together.  She  wants  to  tell  Stella,  is  telling  her  somehow,  that  we  are  her  nieces,  the  daughters  of  her  sister  Victoria.  That  we  used  to  live  upstairs  from  her  long  ago,  that  she  looked  after  me  when  my  mother  was  deliver-  ing  my  sister,  that  shebraided  my  hair,  and  that  I  had  Cheerios  for  breakfast.  On  the  way  out,  we  see  no  nurse  or  attendant.  'The  desk  is  deserted.  I  think  we  could  go  and  look  at  the  records,  read  the  patients'  mail,  steal  the  microscopes,  the  centrifuge,  what-  ever-all  left  in  unlocked,  doors-open  rooms.  In  the  hospital,  the  sun  is  ev-  erywhere,  shining  through  the  modern  sheets  of  glass  onto  the  red,  blue,  or  orange  vinyl  seats  of  the  modern  stackable  chairs;  in  one  of  the  waiting  rooms,  a  nurse,  the  only  one  we  have  seen,  leans  against  the  glass  looking  at  the  city.  By  the  elevator  there  is  a  canvas  laundry  receptacle  filled  with  sheets;  we  imagine  blood.  NOT  so  bad,  we  say  on  the  way  out.  The  electronic  box  that  is  supposed  to  show  our  parking  fee  shows  only  the  broken  outlines  of  the  numbers;  we  take  on  faith  the  atten-  dant's  announcement  that  we  owe  sev-  enty  cents.  We  wait  at  the  traffic  light.  &quot;Let's  go  see  Holy  Sacrament,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;You  only  say  that  because  I'm  driving,&quot;  Kate  says.  But  she  gets  into  the  right  lane  and  we  drive  down  Trowbridge.  Children  playing  in  the  street  scatter  in  front  of  us.  We  come  to  the  crossing  where  we  used  to  turn  onto  Trowbridge  from  Thirty-fifth-  where  the  crossing  guard,  an  older  boy,  once  threatened  to  report  me  to  the  principal  because  I  crossed  not  at  the  corner.  &quot;It's  so  narrow,&quot;  Kate  says.  &quot;We  were  little,&quot;  I  say.  The  church,  the  parking  lot  that  was  the  boys'  playground,  the  nuns'  " b"  house,  the  priest's  house,  where  I  went  only  twice-once  when  I  was  sick,  once  to  see  Monsignor  Ryan  lying  dead,  in  state.  I  ask  Kate  if  she  saw  that,  too.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  Kate  says.  &quot;Mother  took  me  to  see  him.  Can  you  believe  she  did  that?&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  say,  although  I  don't  know  why.  We  turn  a  corner  and  here  we  are  at  Carol  Makowski's  store,  where  we  were  not  allowed  to  go;  my  friend  DeeDee's  house.  Left  on  Fulton:  Grandma's  house,  the  fire  station.  'Sometimes  I  hated  to  go  to  Grandma's  house  for  lunch,&quot;  Kate  says.  &quot;I  still  dream  about  Grandma's  back  yard,&quot;  I  say.  And  now  I  remem-  ber  the  trees,  and  the  gate  to  the  alley,  and  the  stained-glass  window  at  the  top  of  the  stairs.  We  loved  the  alley  because  it  was  brick,  empty-secret,  like  a  hidden  path.  We  used  to  go  down  it  from  Grandma's  to  Aunt  Ren's;  down  to  movies  at  the  Or-     pheum;  down  to  the  Dairy  Dell,  with  its  green,  cool  marble  fountain;  down  to  our  old  street,  our  old  house,  which  looks  the  same,  except  it  is  blue.  There  is  a  car  in  the  driveway.  We  park  infront,  pointed  the  wrong  way.  &quot;How  did  they  ever  move  away&quot;&quot;  Kate  says.  I  say  that  was  their  genera-  tion's  thing-to  move  away,  to  move  up,  out.  &quot;Ours  is  different,&quot;  I  say,  but  I  am  not  sure;  I  am  trying  this  out.  Kate  looks  gloomy.  I  tell  her  how  Mother  told  the  kids  stories  about  our  old  neighbor,  Anna  Jarosz,  whose  house-former  house-we  are  facing.  How  her  husband  broke  a  garage  win-  dowpane  by  accident  and  when  he  was  upset  she  said,  &quot;What  is  it-a  win-  dow?  It's  nothing.  Watch,&quot;  and  she  broke  all  the  other  panes  in  the  win-  dow:  bing,  bing,  bing.  How  she  made  her  first  husband  give  her  the  money  to  come  back  to  [REDACTED]  when  he  tricked  her  into  going  to  [REDACTED]  to  live.  &quot;It  was  so  primitive,  you  wouldn't  believe  it  if  I  tell  you-water  from  a  well  in  the  middle  of  the  vil-  lage,  and  what  they  did  to  make  sure  the  girls  were  pure.&quot;  Here  she  would  lower  her  voice  so  that  all  I  could  hear  was  &quot;a  bloody  sheet  ...&quot;  Kate  starts  the  car.  &quot;I'm  going  to  the  mall,&quot;  she  says.  Are  you  going  to  Moth-  er's  on  Sunday?  Will  we  have  lunch  with  Lynette  or  will  we  make  an  excuse?  The  kidsare  of  course  impossible.  When  we  get  to  my  street  there  is  a  police  car  on  the  corner,  and  as  we  drive  around  it  we  see  a  group  of  people  looking  at  a  car  that  is  trapped  in-  side  the  green  chain-link  fence  around  the  yard  of  the  corner  house.  The  car,  which  is  pointed  out  toward  the  street,  has  smashed  head  on  into  the  telephone  pole  on  the  corner.  It  is  impossible  at  first  to  see  how  this  might  have  happened,  although  the  torn-up  sod  marks  where  it  drove  across  the  lawn,  and  petals  from  a  torn  rosebush  litter  the  ex-  posed  earth.  It  is  as  if  the  car  had  materialized  from  another  dimension-a  crushing  force  released  from  some  time  warp.  The  car  is  a  big-finned,  shiny-chrome  fif-  ties  job.  As  we  drive  up  to  my  house,  my  husband  comes  walking  toward  us,  and  all  up  and  down  the  street  people  are  standing  on  their  porches  or  com-  ing  down  their  front  walks  or  peering  from  behind  their  screen  doors,  with  their  arms  hugged  across  their  chests.  &quot;I'm  sorry  we're  late,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;Did  that  just  happen?&quot;  Kate  says,  pointing  at  the  corner.  &quot;I  don't  know,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;I  was  just  tired  of  staying  inside.  I  wanted  to  see  the  sun.&quot;  "