DISGUISED  \xe2\x80\x98  a  J  HEN  Temer]  stood  under  the  wedding  canopy  she  surely  did  not  know  that  in  less  than  half  ayearshe  would  be  an  abandoned  wife.  Temerl  was  the  daughter  of  a  rich  man.  Pinchos-or  Pinchosl,  as  her  husband  was  called,  because  he  was  small  and  slight-was  a  poor  ye-  shiva  student.  He  received  a  large  dowry  from  his  in-laws  and  was  prom-  ised  ten  years'  board.  Temerl  was  good-looking.  Why  would  anybody  want  to  run  away  from  her?  But  a  few  months  after  the  wedding  Pinchosl  was  gone.  He  stealthily  packed  a  few  garments  in  a  bundle,  took  his  prayer  shawl  and  phylacteries,  and  left  the  town  on  foot.  Even  though  he  could  have  taken  the  entire  dowry,  he  took  only  three  silver  guldens.  No,  Pinchos!l  was  not  a  thief,  and  neither  did  he  chase  women.  He  barely  looked  at  Temerl  when  he  lifted  the  veil  from  her  face  on  the  weddin.  night.  Why,  then,  did  he  run  off:  Some  people  thought  he  was  homesick  for  Komarov,  where  he  had  been  brought  up,  and  yearning  forhis  motherand  father.  But  even  his  par-  ents  heard  nothing  from  him  after  he  left  his  wife.  Someone  had  seen  him  in  Zamosc,  someone  else  in  [REDACTED].  After  that,  there  was  no  trace  of  him.  Pinchosl  had  vanished.  People  expressed  all  kinds  of  opin-  Pre     ua  ions.  Maybe  he  had  quarrelled  with  his  wife?  Maybe  he  disliked  the  town  where  his  in-laws  lived?  Perhaps  he  wanted  to  make  an  end  to  the  Jewish  Exile  and  return  to  the  Land  of  [REDACTED]?  Even  so,  he  didn't  need  to  run  away.  He  could  have  divorced  Temerl,  or  at  least  sent  divorce  papers  with  a  mes-  senger.  To  walk  out  on  a  Jewish  daughter  is  a  grave  sin,  because  unless  she  is  divorced  according  to  the  laws  of  Moses  and  [REDACTED]  she  can  never  remarry.  Temerl  sulked  and  wept.  It  would  have  been  much  less  of  a  misfortune  had  he  left  her  with  a  child.  But  he  left  her  with  nothing  but  an  ache  in  her  heart.  The  women  questioned  Temerl:;  &quot;Did  he  come  to  your  bed  on  your  pure  nights'&quot;  &quot;Did  he  speak  gently  to  you?&quot;  &quot;Did  you  ever  resist  him?&quot;  From  Temerl's  answers  it  was  clear  that  they  had  behaved  more  or  less  like  man  and  wife.  As  far  as  the  family  knew,  the  night  before  Pinchosl  left  he  read  a  Talmu-  dic  book  in  the  study  house  until  late.  There  was  no  sign  on  his  face  that  he  was  preparing  to  do  anything  unusual.  But  in  the  middle  of  the  night,  as  Temer]  slept,  he  packed  upand  slipped  away.  Why?  And  where  to?  His  par-  ents  and  father-in-law  sent  messengers  to  look  for  him  in  the  neighboring  towns.  The  family  wrote  to  rabbis  and  -_  22     \xc2\xbbIR\xe2\x82\xac     |  aig     hey  SEPTEMBER  22,  1986  to  community  leaders  across  [REDACTED].  But  Pinchos!l  had  apparently  managed  to  elude  everybody.  There  was  only  one  explanation:  the  demons  had  captured  him.  But  if  the  demons  capture  a  man,  he  is  not  spotted  in  Zamosec  and  in  [REDACTED].  They  drag  him  behind  the  black  mountains  where  no  people  walk,  no  cattle  tread.  Some  women  murmured  that  perhaps  Pinchosl  harbored  hatred  toward  Temerl.  But  how  could  any-  one  hate  Temerl?  She  was  a  mere  seventeen  years  old,  with  a  silky-  smooth  face,  dark  eyes,  and  slender  limbs,  and  she  seemed  to  be  utterly  devoted  to  her  husband.  She  had  sewn  an  ornate  prayer-shawl  case  for  him  and  sent  to  him  as  a  wedding  gift  a  velvet  matzo  cover  embroidered  with  golden  threads  and  with  his  name  in  little  gems.  If  he  dallied  too  long  in  the  study  house,  she  sent  her  maid  to  call  him  home  to  lunch.  Rumors  spread  that  a  young  man  who  looked  Jewish  had  been  seen  in  a  procession  of  priests  and  monks  at  a  cloister.  But  this  certainly  couldnot  have  been  the  learned  and  law-abiding  Pinchosl.  People  often  say  that  one  cannot  understand  the  ways  of  the  Al-  mighty.  Yet  the  ways  of  human  beings  can  be  just  as  perplexing.  TWO  years  passed.  Pinchost's  parents  and  in-laws  had  searched  far  and  wide.  They  inquired  in  every  city  or  village  where  a  Jew  might  settle.  One  day,  Temerl  surprised  her  parents  by  telling  them  that  she  had  decided  to  go  and  comb  the  earth  herself  in  search  of  her  husband.  Her  mother,  Baila,  cried  bitterly.  How  could  she  al-  low  her  nineteen-year-old  daughter  to  wander  over  the  world?  Where  would  she  go?  Where  would  she  stay?  Baila  was  terrified  that  the  same  fate  would  befall  Temerl  as  had  be-  fallen  Pinchosl.  But  her  father,  Reb  Shlomo  Melt-  zer,  had  another  view-  point.  It  was  not  unheard  of  for  an  abandoned  wife  to  set  out  in  search  of  her  husband.  It  hadhappened  more  than  once  that  the  wife  finally  found  the  man  and  got  a  divorce  from  him  or  else  located  witnesses  to  his  death.  What  did  Temerl  have  to  lose?  Her     " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  life  was  ruined  either  way.  Reb  Shlomo  gave  his  daughter  money  and  sent  along  a  maid  to  help  her  in  all  heren-  deavors.  The  maid,  a  widow,  was  a  distant  relative  of  his.  A  long  journey  began  for  Temer1l.  She  did  not  travel  with  any  specific  plan.  She  followed  all  possible  leads.  If  she  was  given  the  name  of  some  town  that  the  messengers  might  have  omitted,  she  found  a  vehicle  and  travelled  there.  Wherever  she  went,  she  sought  out  the  rabbi  and  the  community  leaders,  and  she  visited  the  synagogue  and  the  study  house.  She  searched  in  the  market-  places,  along  the  side  streets,  in  the  poorhouse.  She  asked  if  anyone  had  seen  or  heard  about  a  certain  Pinchosl.  People  shrugged  their  shoul-  ders,  shook  their  heads.  Pinchos!l  had  no  out-  standing  traits.  He  looked  like  an  average  young  Chassid.  When  he  forsook  her,  he  had  not  yet  begun  to  sprout  whiskers,  but  by  now  he  probably  had  grown  a  little  beard.  Wherever  Temerl  and  her  maid  went,  they  heard  the  same  re-  frain:  &quot;Go  look  for  a  needle  in  a  hay-  stack.&quot;  Months  passed,  and  Temerl1  pursued  her  search.  Travelling  all  over  the  [REDACTED]  region  and  farther,  into  the  so-  called  Great  [REDACTED],  matured  her  before  her  time.  She  gained  the  kind  of  knowledge  that  comes  from  staying  at  inns  and  listening  to  all  sorts  of  talk.  She  met  with  other  abandoned  wives.  Men  did  disappear.  Once  in  a  while,  a  woman,  too,  disappeared,  but  those  were  rare  cases.  Temerl  learned  how  vast  the  world  was  and  how  odd  peo-  ple  could  be.  Each  human  being  had  his  own  desires,  his  own  calculations,  and  sometimes  his  or  her  own  mad-  ness.  In  the  city  of  Chelm,  she  heard,  the  daughter  of  a  rich  Jew  had  fallen  in  love  with  a  pork  butcher  and  con-  verted  to  Catholicism.  In  Jaroslaw,  a  wealthy  businessman  divorced  his  wife  and  married  a  prostitute.  In  Lemberg,  they  imprisoned  a  charlatan  who  had  twenty-four  families  in  twenty-four  towns  and  villages.  Temerl  also  heard  many  tales  of  people  who  had  been  carried  away  by  hobgoblins,  of  chil-  dren  captured  and  enslaved  by  Gyp-  sies,  and  of  men  who  escaped  to  [REDACTED],  where,  she  was  told,  it  was  nighttime  when  it  was  daytime  in  Po-  land,  and  where  people  walked  upside  down.  There  was  alsotalk  about  a  monster  who  was  born  with  a  gray  beard  and  the  teeth  of  a  wolf.  But  Temerl  somehow  felt  that  Pinchosl  had  not  been  seized  by  demons,  and  that  neither  was  he  lost  in  faraway  [REDACTED],  across  the  ocean.  Temerl  journeyed  through  all  the  Jewish  towns.  The  money  that  her  father  had  given  her  ran  out,  butshe  had  her  jewelry  with  her  and  was  able  to  sell  some  of  that.  She  had  written  to  her  parents,  but  they  could  not  answer  her,  since  she  never  stayed  long  enough  in  one  place.  In  time,  the  maid  became  weary  of  roaming  and  she  re-  turned  home.  For  Temerl,  wandering  had  become  a  habit.  In  one  town,  she  met  someone  who  resembled  Pinchosl.  She  alerted  the  community  leaders,  and  he  was  taken  to  the  rabbi  and  later    to  the  ritual  bath,  but  certain  marks  on  his  body  did  not  coincide  with  Temerl's  description.  He  did  not  have  a  black  nail  on  the  big  toe  of  his  left  foot,  and  he  did  not  have  a  wart  on  his  neck.  He  denied  having  been  born  in  Komarov,  and  swore  that  his  name  was  not  Pinchosl  but  Moshe  Shmerl.  He  admitted  that  he  was  married  and  the  fatherof  children  but  said  he  had  not  run  away  from  his  wife.  The  op-  posite  was  true.  His  wife  refused  to  live  with  him,  because  he  could  not  provide  for  the  family,  and  he  had  gone  out  to  look  for  a  teaching  job.  The  rabbi  and  the  elders  believed  him,  and  Temerl  was  sentenced  to  pay  a  fine  of  eighteen  groschen  forsus-  pecting  the  innocent  and  giving  a  stranger  a  bad  name.  TEMERL  travelled  as  far  as  the  city  of  Kalisz,  and  there  she  was  pass-  ing  through  a  marketplace  when  her  eyes  caught  sight  of  a  woman  who  seemed  strangely  familiar.  Where  have  I  seen  that  face  before,  Temerl  wondered.  Thewoman  was  buying  eggs  from  a  merchant  and  holding  a  " b"  basket,  into  which  sheput  the  mer-  chandise.  There  was  nothing  unusual  about  all  this,  but  Temerl  stood  there  gaping  and  could  not  move  from  the  spot.  Suddenly  she  realized  whom  the  woman  resembled:  no  one  else  but  Pinchosl!  &quot;Am  I  losing  my  mind?&quot;  Temerl  asked  herself  in  bewilderment.  She  remembered  being  fined  the  eigh-  teen  groschen  for  false  accusations.  At  that  instant,  the  woman  glanced  at  Temerl  and  seemed  to  be  so  shaken  that  she  dropped  her  basket,  breaking  many  of  the  eggs.  She  attempted  to  run,  but  the  merchant  ran  after  her,  calling  that  he  hadn't  been  paid  for  the  eggs.  Thewoman  stopped  and  began  to  look  for  money,  but  her  hand  was  trembling  and  the  coins  fell  from  her  purse.  Temerl  herself  was  about  to  faint,  yet  she  noticed  that  the  woman's  cheeks  were  not  smooth  but  fuzzy,  as  if  she  were  sproutinga  beard.  Also,  her  hands  were  too  large  for  those  of  a  female.  A  wild  thought  ran  through  Temerl's  mind:  Perhaps  this  is  Pinchosl  dressed  up  like  a  woman.  But  why  would  a  man  want  to  parade  around  like  a  woman?  It  is  forbidden  by  the  Mosaic  Law  for  a  man  to  wear  the  garments  of  a  woman,  and  vice  versa.  The  woman  picked  up  the  fallen  coins  and  paid  the  merchant.  She  then  began  to  walk  away  quickly.  She  was  almost  running,  and  Temerl  ran  after  without  us  her,  screaming  and  calling  her  back.  The  woman  stopped  short.  &quot;Why  are  you  chasing  me?  What  do  you  want?&quot;  she  asked,  in  Pinchosl's  voice.  &quot;'You  are  Pinchosl!&quot;  Temerl  cried  out.  Instead  of  denying  it,  the  strange  woman  stood  there,  pale  and  speech-  less.  Finally,  she  managed  to  ask-  again  in  Pinchosl's  voice-&quot;W  hat  are  you  doing  in  Kalisz?&quot;  &quot;I'm  looking  for  my  husband.  It  is  you!&quot;  Temerl  exclaimed.  &quot;You  left  me  an  abandoned  wife.&quot;  In  her  dis-  may,  Temerl  began  to  choke  and  cry  spasmodically.  The  woman  looked  at  her  and  said,  &quot;Come  with  me,&quot;  and  she  pointed  to  a  muddy  alley  strewn  with  garbage  and  pools  of  slop.  There,  after  attempting  to  quiet  Temerl,  the  strange  woman  admitted,  &quot;Yes,  I  am  Pinchosl.&quot;  &quot;Why  did  you  run  away?  Why  did  you  dress  in  a  woman's  clothes?&quot;  Temerl  howled.  &quot;Are  you  mad,  pos-     I  was  not  going  to  be  long  -W.  S.  Marwin  sessed  by  a  dybbuk?  What  are  you  doing  here  in  Kalisz  and  for  whom  were  you  buying  eggs?  Are  you  some-  one's  servant  or  slave?  Are  my  eyes  deceiving  me?  Am  I  dreaming?  Oram  I  bewitched?  God  in  Heaven,  the  ter-  rible  misfortunes  that  have  befallen  me!&quot;  Temerl  began  to  sway  and  was  about  to  collapse  into  a  swoon.She  clutched  at  Pinchosl's  shoulder,  and  a  horrifying  shriek  came  out  of  her  throat.  In  fear  of  attracting  attention  and  having  a  mob  of  people  witness  his  disgrace,  Pinchos!l  blurted  out,  &quot;I  know  that  this  will  shock  you  terribly,  but  I  live  here  in  Kalisz  with  a  man.&quot;  &quot;With  a  man?&quot;  Temerl  gasped.  &quot;Are  you  fooling  me?  Are  you  joking?  What  do  you  mean  with  a  man?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  with  a  man.  His  name  is  Elkonah.  We  met  in  ayeshiva  years  ago.  Here  we  bake  pretzels  for  yeshiva  boys.  This  is  how  we  earn  our  living,  and  for  this  I  went  to  buy  eggs.  For-  give  me,  Temerl,  but  I  never  wanted  to  marry  you.  I  was  forced  by  my  parents.  That  is  the  real  truth.&quot;  &quot;Whom  did  you  want  to  marry?&quot;  Temer]  asked.  (iHim.\xe2\x80\x99)  They  stood  motionless  for  a  while;  then  Pinchosl  managed  to  say,  &quot;I  can't  help  it,  I  must  confess  the  whole  truth.&quot;  &quot;What  truth?&quot;  Temerl  exclaimed.  " b"&quot;What  did  you  do?  Have  you,  God  forbid,  forsaken  your  faith?&quot;  &quot;No,  Temerl.  I  am  still  a  Jew,  but  ...&quot;  Pinchos!  stammered  and  shook.  He  again  dropped  the  basket,  but  he  did  not  bother  to  pick  it  up.  He  stood  before  her  ashamed,  frightened,  pale,  moving  his  lips  but  unable  to  uttera  word.  Then  Temerl  heard  him  say,  &quot;I'm  not  a  man  anymore-not  really,  not  for  you.  .  ..&quot;  &quot;What  are  you  saying?&quot;  Temerl  asked.  &quot;Were  you  sick?  Did  some  vi-  cious  people  do  something  to  maim  you?  No  matter  what  you  tell  me,  I  am  still  your  wife  and  I  must  know!&quot;  &quot;No,  Temerl,  not  this  but  .  ..&quot;  &quot;Speak  clearly!&quot;  Temerl,  too,  was  trembling,  and  her  teeth  chattered.  &quot;Temerl,  come  with  me!&quot;  Pinchosl  both  ordered  and  pleaded.  &quot;Where  to?&quot;  &quot;To  my  house-I  mean  home,  where  we  live.&quot;  &quot;Where  is  your  home?  Who  is  the  'we'?  Did  you  find  another  woman?&quot;  &quot;No,  Temerl,  but  .  ..&quot;  cag  ect)  Ah  be  24%  th  #4  Pos  Gy  nse  -or  ),  [FOR  RENT!  E1  .     &quot;Don't  lie  to  me!  I  beseech  you!  In  the  name  of  God.  Oh,  I'm  afraid!&quot;  Pinchosl  started  to  walk  ahead,  and  he  motioned  to  Temerl  to  follow  him.  As  they  walked,  Pinchos!  was  saying,  &quot;According  to  the  Talmud,  when  a  man  is  overcome  by  the  evil  spirit  and  knows  of  no  way  out  he  should  wrap  himself  in  black  garmentsand  go  to  a  place  where  he  is  not  known  and  do  what  his  heart  desires.  This  is  what  we  did,  Elkonah  and  I.&quot;  They  came  to  another  alley  and  to  a  shabby-looking  house.  Pinchosl  urged  Temerl  to  come  inside,  but  she  re-  fused.  He  pulled  her  by  the  arm,  but  she  stood  firm.  After  much  hesitation,  she  gave  in.  Luckily,  Elkonah  was  not  home.  There  was  a  clay  oven  in  the  house  and  a  kneading  board.  The  place  smelled  of  yeast  and  firewood.  Temerl  imagined  that  she  recognized  some  of  Pinchosl's  books  in  the  book-  case.  A  ladder  led  up  toa  loft  bed.  invited  her  to  sit  down.  This  wasno  longer  the  modest,  bashful  Pinchos!l  she  remembered  but  a  37  *F,  WHL  ALTER  to|  |  SyIT     worldly  manwho  reminded  her  of  the  adventurers  described  in  the  storybooks  sheused  to  read  before  shemarried.  Pinchos!  offered  her  some  of  the  pretzels  he  had  baked  and  a  glass  of  soda  water.  He  repeatedly  apologized  for  hissins  and  the  suffering  he  had  caused  her  and  her  parents.  He  even  joked  and  smiled-something  he  never  did  in  former  times.  Temerl  heard  her-  self  saying,  &quot;Since  you  seem  to  regret  your  sins,  perhaps  you  could  repent  and  return  to  God  and  even  to  me.&quot;  &quot;It's  too  late  for  that,&quot;  Pinchosl  answered.  &quot;I  can  regret  but  not  repent.  Those  who  are  trapped  in  our  net  can  never  escape.&quot;  And  he  quoted  the  Book  of  Proverbs:  &quot;None  who  come  to  her  return,  nor  do  they  reach  the  paths  of  life.&quot;  Shocked  as  Temerl  was,  she  heard  him  out.  She  told  Pinchosl  that  there  was  only  one  redeeming  actfor  him,  and  that  was  to  divorce  her  and  free  her  as  quickly  as  possible.  Pinchosl  agreed  immediately  but  said  that  the  divorce  could  not  take  place  in  Kalisz,  " b"where  he  was  known  as  Elkonah's  wife.  &quot;You  could  have  done  this  from  the  very  beginning,&quot;  Temerl  re-  proached  him.  &quot;And  spared  me  all  the  misery  I  went  through.&quot;  &quot;We  know  that  we  will  be  pun-  ished,  and  we  are  ready  for  the  fires  of  Gehenna,&quot;  Pinchosl  said.  &quot;Passions,  too,  are  fires.  They  are  Gehenna  on  earth,  perhaps  the  Gate  to  Hell.  Meanwhile,  come  let  us  have  a  glass  of  tea  together.&quot;  Temerl  could  not  believe  her  own  eyes.  Pinchosl  served  tea  with  jam  for  her.  They  were  sitting  and  drinking  like  two  sisters.  He  was  saying,  &quot;My  parents  had  hoped  to  have  grandchil-  dren  from  us,  but  certainly  not  through  an  outcast  like  me,  who  would  be  excommunicated  by  the  Jews  andhanged  on  the  gallows  by  the  [REDACTED].  But  you,  Temerl,  will  soon  remarry  and  bring  your  parents  all  the  joythey  expected.  I  wish  you  good  luck  in  advance.&quot;  &quot;You  are  utterly  mad,  but  thank  you  just  the  same,&quot;  Temer]  said.  That  evening,  when  Elkonah  came  home-a  tall,  handsome  man  in  a     short  coat  and  a  silkvest,  his  black  sidelocks  curled  in  ringlets-he  was  told  the  whole  story.  While  Pinchosl  still  spoke  with  the  humility  of  a  Jew,  Elkonah  proved  to  be  like  one  of  those  who  are  referred  to  in  the  Talmud  as  profligatesfor  the  sake  of  spite.  He  denied  the  existence  of  God,  of  Provi-  dence,  and  theholiness  of  the  Torah.  He  went  so  farasto  suggest  that  Temer]l  should  get  the  divorce  papers  from  him,  Elkonah,  in  order  to  save  Pinchosl  a  costly  trip.  Temer]l  asked  Elkonah,  &quot;Have  you  no  fear  of  God  at  all?&quot;  He  answered,  &quot;All  I  ask  of  Pinchosl  is  for  him  to  come  back  soon  and  continue  to  bake  pretzels  for  theye-  shiva  boys-some  of  whom  I  have  managed  to  seduce.&quot;  And  he  winked  and  laughed.  OME  weeks  later,  when  Baila  was  sitting  in  the  kitchen  with  her  maid,  plucking  goose  down  for  a  feather  bed,  the  door  opened  and  Temerl  entered.  It  was  snowing  out-  side.  An  icy  wind  rattled  the  shutters.  Baila  let  out  a  wild  cry  of  joy  and  jumped  up  from  her  stool,  and  all  the  down  on  her  apron  fell  off.  The  maid  lost  her  tongue  altogether.  Even  before  Baila  could  greet  and  kiss  her  daughter,  Temerl  an-  nounced,  &quot;Mazel  tov!  Here  are  my  divorce  papers,  written  by  a  \xc2\xab+  master  scribe,  signed  by  two  kosher  witnesses.&quot;  That  was  almost  all  she  could  tell  that  day  and  for  many  days,  weeks,  months,  and  even  years  after.  The  real  story,  with  all  its  peculiarities,  'Temerl  could  not  tell,  because  Pinchosl  had  made  her  swear  by  God,  by  the  Pentateuch,  by  the  lives  of  her  father  and  mother,  and  by  every-  thing  holy  to  her  nev-  er  to  mention  any  de-  tails  as  long  as  she  lived.  All  she  could  say  was  that  she  had  found  her  husband  some-  where  andhad  got  her  divorce.  The  entire  story  was  told  to  a  rabbi  and  to  the  eldersof  the  burial  society  many  years  later  when  Temerl  lay  on  her  deathbed  and  was  reciting  her  confession,  surrounded  by  her  sons,  daughters,  and  grandchil-  dren,  as  well  as  friends  and  admirers  from  the  region,  where  she  lived  to  a  ripe  old  age.  &quot;'There  were  many  demands  and  temptations  for  me  to  break  my  oath  of  silence,&quot;  Temerl  was  saying,  &quot;but,  thank  God,  I  kept  my  lips  sealed  until  today.  Now,  after  all  these  years,  I  am  free  and  ready  to  tell  the  whole  story,  since  the  place  where  I  am  going  is  called  the  World  of  Truth.&quot;  Temerl  closed  her  eyes.  The  women  ofthe  burial  society  had  al-  ready  prepared  the  feather  to  hold  un-  der  the  dying  woman's  nostrils  to  see  if  she  was  still  breathing.  Suddenly,  Temerl  opened  her  eyes  and  smiled,  as  the  moribund  sometimes  do,  and  she  said,  &quot;Who  knows?  Perhaps  I  will  meet  this  madman  once  again  in  Gehenna.&quot; "