 DANDELION  GOLF  the  road  was  empty.  Our  milk  cows  had  been  declared  superflu-  ous  and  they  had  been  carted  away.  One  would  like  to  think  that  the  chil-  dren  were  asleep  when  it  happened.  As  it  was,  they  were  watching  Saturday-  morning  cartoons  in  the  living  room  and  could  see  the  green  livestock  truck  out  the  bay  window.  Of  course,  we  had  known  all  about  it  for  some  time.  The  official  letter  came  months  ago.  It  was  headed  &quot;Re:  Milk  Surplus.&quot;  If  we  were  losing  money,  we  would  have  to  give  up  our  cows.  There  were  features  in  the  newspaper  on  the  community  page.  People  on  dairy  farms  like  this  one  but  in  New  Hampshire,  not  western  Mas-  sachusetts,  where  we  are,  got  on  the  CBS  news.  Places  there  looked  a  lot  poorer  than  here,  but  truthfully  we  were  hurting  and  our  kids  seemed  just  as  destitute,  looking  out  that  window.  My  husband,  Tom,  stayed  back  rid-  ing  the  three-gang  mower  and  kept  his  head  down  so  he  would  not  have  to  see  the  barn.  It  was  the  first  cutting,  and  it  had  that  sweet,  succulent  aroma  that  disappears  later  on  in  the  year  after  the  sun  drives  out  the  moisture.  He  drove  the  tractor  in  ever-smaller  rectangles  and  he  took  care  not  to  chafe  any  of  the  trees  in  the  yard.  From  the  ell  of  the  house  where  the  kitchen  is,  you  could  see  from  the  win-  dow  over  the  sink  the  three  kids  kneel-  ing  backward  on  the  couch,  Tom  perched  on  the  metal  tractor  seat,  and  the  green  livestock  truck  with  its  ramp  down.  The  cows  were  mooing  in  the  barn.  They  did  that  when  strangers  were  around  them.  On  some  govern-  ment  installations  the  personnel  in  charge  of  security  have  purchased  flocks  of  white  domestic  geese  to  guard  the  perimeter.  They  are  formidable  birds,  the  males  with  necks  as  thick  as  a  middleweight's  arm,  and  they  raise  a  racket,  whereas  good  guard  dogs  do  not  bark  at  all.  Tom  had  done  the  last  milking  at  five-thirty,  when  it  was  still  dark.  He  did  not  have  to  do  it,  but  he  knew  the  cows  would  be  more  com-  fortable  that  way  on  their  journey.  That  was  as  far  as  he  cared  to  think  about  their  fate.  We  had  some  savings,  and  we  could  get  hold  of  the  IRA  if  we  wanted  to  take  the  penalty.  There  was  the  gov-  ernment  subsidy  and  low-interest  loans  like  the  ones  they  have  in  the  [REDACTED]  IT  was  spring,  and  the  field  across  after  a  tornado  hits,  which  we  were  told  we  were  entitled  to  if  we  filled  out  the  forms.  Tom  wanted  to  grow  grapes  with  the  money,  like  the  Mondavi  brothers  in  Napa  [REDACTED],  whom  he  had  read  about  in  Trevel  &amp;  Leisure.  Or  maybe  he  would  have  goats  on  the  old  cow  field  and  make  goat  cheese  to  sell  in  the  Berkshires,  he  said.  Maybe  he  would  do  both;  and  bread  could  be  baked  in  the  kitchen  oven  and  the  kids  could  pick  wild-  flowers  from  the  field  and  we  could  make  picnic  baskets  for  the  tourists  in  the  summer  and  the  leafers  in  the  fall.  He  was  going  to  trade  in  the  BMW  for  a  four-wheel-drive  Subaru  wagon  -it  could  hold  more  baskets.  He  could  be  overly  practical.  When  Tom  was  cleaning  out  the  barn  after  the  cows  had  been  taken  away,  he  found  a  cache  of  rusted  tools,  old  license  plates,  harness  leather,  milking  stools,  and  broken  oak  furni-  ture.  He  would  have  a  barn  sale  in-  stead  of  making  wine  and  goat  cheese.  There  was  a  pile  of  junk  he  could  polish  and  he  could  set  up  an  antique  store  in  the  barn.  He  could  find  more  stuff  up  in  [REDACTED]  or  in  [REDACTED],  where  it  was  certain  to  be  cheaper,  he  said,  and  hauling  it  back  would  make  the  Subaru  invaluable.  That  way  no  one  would  have  to  bake  bread,  and  the  children  could  concentrate  on  TV  or  homework  or  whatever  they  wanted  to  do.  The  field  where  the  cows  had  grazed  grew  wild  with  dandelions.  On  the  wood  above  the  large  double  doors  of  the  barn,  Tom  sprayed  the  word  &quot;Antiques&quot;  freehand  from  a  can  of  flat  Rust-Oleum  red.  One  man  who  stopped  had  an  organic-vitamin  com-  pany  in  New  Jersey  and  he  proposed  to  harvest  the  dandelions  and  turn  them  into  carotene  capsules,  but  then  the  Tylenol  scare  ruined  the  capsule  mar-  ket  and  Tom  never  heard  from  the  man  again.  Even  without  the  cows,  Tom  had  a  hard  time  sleeping  in  in  the  morning.     SEPTEMBER  1,  1986  He  would  still  dress  in  jeans  and  his  boots  and  head  for  the  barn.  He  still  kept  his  toothbrush  in  a  glass  on  the  work  sink.  He  would  come  out  to  wave  to  the  kids  if  they  were  going  to  school,  or  to  getthe  newspaper  from  the  metal  cannister  beneath  the  fibre-  glass  mailbox.  HE  mailbox  had  red  setters  on  the  sides  and  had  come  from  Tom's  mother  via  L.  L.  Bean  or  Hammacher  Schlemmer  the  Christmas  we  moved  up  to  run  the  dairy.  Andrew  had  not  been  born  yet,  and  Jane  and  Lydia  had  not  begun  regular  school.  We  got  the  barn  ready  for  the  cows  that  winter  by  wire-brushing  and  whitewashing  the  entire  inside.  There  is  no  better  way  to  get  to  hate  a  barn  than  to  crawl  over  every  inch  of  it  seven  months  pregnant,  wearing  a  dust  mask  so  you  do  not  give  the  baby  anything  harmful  by  inhaling  fungus,  and  alternately  freezing  and  sweating.  The  kerosene  heater  Tom  bought  at  a  tag  sale  gave  off  inky  fumes  and  about  a  square  inch  of  heat.  My  mother  kept  Jane  and  Lydia  warm  at  her  condo-  minium  in  West  Palm  Beach,  and  that  helped  sort  of.  Tom  thought  it  a  great  help.  Cows  do  not  give  milk  unless  they  are  calved,  and  spring  was  calving  time.  Federal  agriculture  inspectors  had  certified  us,  the  cows,  and  the  equipment,  and  Tom  made  arrange-  ments  to  have  [REDACTED]  Farms  buy  our  milk  as  soon  as  production  began  and  put  it  in  their  cartons.  We  did  not  have  a  pasteurizer.  Nurses  at  hospitals  in  cow  country  learn  early  on  to  banter  about  putting  metal  registry  tags  in  the  baby's  ear-ha,  ha-and  it  was  amid  this  vein  of  humor  that  Andrew  was  born.  The  first  delivery  you  do  not  know  anything  about,  except  what  you  have  heard;  with  the  second  you  are  scared  because  itis  supposed  to  be  easier  and  anticipation  never  is  easier;  and  by  the  third  the  novelty  has  worn  off  and  you  just  want  to  get  it  over  with  and  go  home.  Andrew  nursed  constantly.  We  kept  empty  Agway  grain  sacks  in  the  mud-  room  to  use  in  carting  away  the  Pam-  pers  or  Huggies  that  accumulated  like  snow.  For  her  second-grade  project,  Jane  made  a  construction-paper  display  of  the  life  cycle  of  a  barn  owl.  One  block  of  her  neat  printingrevealed  that  this  species  could  hear  a  mouse  squeak  half  a  mile  away.  In  Havahart  traps  we  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  caught  shrews,  moles,mice,  rats,  and  a  young  raccoon  that  we  kept  for  An-  drew.  Tom  didthe  milking  of  the  sixty  head  by  himself.  He  planned  to  have  some  summer  help  from  the  girls'  junior  college.  We  joined  a  4-H  Club  for  under-twelve-year-olds  and  got  farming  catalogues  in  the  mail  that  we  did  not  send  for.  Friends  from  the  city  drove  up  on  weekends  and  we  made  new  friends  either  because  we  liked  them  or  be-  cause  our  kids  were  friends  with  their  kids.  We  had  had  the  BMW  when  we  moved,  and  had  kept  it  even  though  it  was  too  small  for  hauling  feed,  but  we  used  it  for  grocery  shopping  and  for  going  to  the  movies  or  to  Friendly's  -the  girls  in  the  back,  Andrew  on  my  lap  in  front,  Tom  driving.  Most  of  the  men  we  knew  in  the  area  drove  pick-  ups,  with  gun  racks,into  which  were  cradled  their  seasonal  sporting  equip-  ment  or,  if  they  were  builders,  their  long  metal  framing  levels.  Tom  never  owned  a  gun  ora  level.  He  took  a  correspondence  husbandry  course,  and  he  helped  teach  swimming  at  the  mid-  dle  school.  Out  in  the  country,  he  said,  one  learns  to  worry  about  ponds  that  chil-  dren  may  stumble  into,  and  castoff  refrigerators  with  doors  that  they  can-  not  open  from  the  inside.  A  dirt  road  divided  our  farmhouse  from  the  barn.  There  was  a  pond  the  cows  used  in  the  pasture,  and  a  cattle  gap  on  the  road  side  of  the  barn.  The  barn  had  ladders  that  reached  to  the  lofts,  one  on  either  side,  with  the  stalls  beneath  them.  Wide  planking  that  was  whitewashed  formed  the  interior  walls.  The  roof,  rafters,  and  beams  were  a  natural  deep  reddish  brown,  and  were  furrowed  where  the  sun  had  come  in  over  the  years  and  bakedthem.  Part  of  the  main  section  between  the  lofts  held  the  gleaming  raw-milk  tanks  and  the  milking  machinery  with  its  gray  rub-  ber  hoses  that  could  be  uncoiled  to  pass  through  holes  into  the  milking  stands.  Equipment  for  sterilizing  anything  made  of  stainless  steel  and  chemicals  to  check  for  tubercle  bacillus  were  stored  in  a  walk-in  closet,  along  with  a  file  cabinet,  milk-production  charts,  and  the  accounting  books  with  the  records  for  [REDACTED].  Each  entry  bore  the  ini-  tials  of  the  man  who  made  the  milk  pickup.  What  tools  Tom  had  were  in  the  trunk  of  the  BMW.  He  made  most  of  the  repairs  on  the  barn  and  the  house  and  on  the  machinery  with  the  screwdriver,  awl,or  master  blade  of  his  pocketknife.  The  gardening  and  mowing  equipment  was  in  theshed.  Handymen  who  advertised  on  the  bul-  letin  board  between  the  inner  and  outer  automatic  doors  at  the  Shoprite  in  town  fixed  whatever  Tom  could  not.  The  farm  had  been  fully  equipped  when  purchased,  and  Tom's  idea  was  to  sell  off  as  much  as  possible  that  did  not  have  to  do  with  milking  and  cart  what  did  not  sell  to  the  dump.  Instead,  a  lot  got  shoved  into  dark  corners  and  into  two  stalls  that  were  once  used  for  draft  horses  and  had  deeply  scarred,  thick  oak  floors  and  heavy  half  doors  dented  from  hoof  kicks.  WHEN  ,  not  long  after  the  cows  were  taken,  Jane  or  Lydia  taught  Andrew  about  hide-and-seek-  it  was  never  clear  who  had  done  what  -one  of  them  told  him  that  he  was  not  supposed  to  give  up  his  hiding  place  for  anything.  Andrew  is  garru-  lous  and  good-natured,  as  third  chil-  dren  often  are,  and  could  be  counted  on  to  give  away  almost  anything,  but  he  kept  his  hiding  place  to  himself.  When  the  girls  came  to  Tom  crying  that  Andrew  got  lost  when  they  were  just  playing  a  game,  Tom  found  An-  drew  by  putting  himself  in  the  frame  of  mind  of  a  two-and-a-half-year-old.  It  was  during  this  search  that  Tom  came  across  an  old  set  of  wooden-  shafted  golfclubs  in  a  ratty  canvas  bag.  The  club  heads  had  rusted,  but  you  could  make  out  the  words&quot;Nib-  lick,&quot;  &quot;Mashie,&quot;  &quot;Brassie,&quot;  and  &quot;Spoon.&quot;  Soon  afterward,  Tom  sent  away  for  gallery  tickets  to  the  [REDACTED]  29     Open  at  Shinnecock,  on  Long  Island.  Jane  was  seven  and  could  run  the  washing  machine  and  dryer  alone.  Lydia  could  unpack  groceries  and  make  beds  without  tucking  in  the  sheets.  We  rented  a  housekeeping  unit  at  a  motel  on  the  North  Shore  of  Long  Island,  and  the  girls  promised  to  help  if  they  could  come.  There  was  no  question  about  Andrew's  coming.  Tom  wanted  him  to  caddie  for  him  someday,  as  Jack  Nicklaus's  son  had  done  in  the  Masters.  Tom  had  played  in  college  and  in  junior  tournaments,  paired  with  a  friend  of  his  father's  at  whose  place  Sam  Snead  had  once  stayed  and  practiced  his  short  irons.  It  was  an  easy  drive  from  the  motel  to  where  the  Open  was  being  played,  and  on  the  way,  on  the  radio  in  the  car,  an  NPR  commentator  was  be-  moaning  the  fact  that  the  Belmont  had  been  run  and  there  was  no  Triple  Crown  winner  this  year,  nor  had  Indy  produced  any  heroes.  The  Mets  were  outdistancing  their  league,  and  the  Yankees  no  one  seemed  to  care  about.  Aides  at  the  White  House  were  pre-  paring  the  country  for  what  might  be  the  longest  vacation  in  Presidential  history.  The  only  bright  spot,  he  said,  was  Nicklaus's  chances  in  the  Open.  Tom  turned  it  off.  For  this,  he  said,  he  had  high  hopes,  if  Nicklaus  could  stay  out  of  the  rough.  Andrew  looked  up,  not  understanding  what  the  rough  is,  and  Tom  explained  that  it  is  where  the  weeds  grow.  &quot;Like  dandelions?&quot;  Andrew  asked.  Tom  smiled  and  said  yes,  and  turned  his  eyes  back  to  the  road.  -Douesrtas  GasnER  "