 MY  NEY  SEASON  last  season  was  my  best.  Neverthe-  less,  this  season  we're  going  with  a  whole  new  look  and  a  whole  new  approach.  We  had  a  great  success  with  me  last  year,  but  we're  not  going  to  play  it  safe  and  stick  with  the  same  old  formula.  This  year's  me  will  be  last  year's  me,  only  more  now,  more  today.  Last  year,  as  you  recall,  we  concen-  trated  a  lot  on  white  socks.  W  hite  socks  almost  became  the  statement  last  year.  This  year  we're  moving  into  a  lot  of  new  areas:  Argyle,  over-the-calf  tan,  dark  brown,  even  yellow  wool.  Toward  the  middle  of  next  season  I'll  be  seen  wearing  nothing  but  black  socks  for  three  straight  weeks.  We'll  have  to  see  how  the  mail  goes  on  that  one;  we're  flexible,  and  we  can  admit  when  we  make  a  mistake.  Then  there's  my  teeth.  Last  year,  we  concentrated  almost  exclusively  on  the  molars,  which  worked  great.  After  a  while,  though,  you'd  go  out  to  a  shopping  mall  and  you'd  see  dozens  of  suburban  clones  doing  the  same  molar  thing.  It's  gotten  stale,  so  this  year  you'll  see  me  dividing  my  time  about  fifty-fifty  between  the  canines  and  the  bicuspids.  We  are  going  to  do  a  whole  hour  on  my  wisdom  teeth  later  on  in  the  season.  A  whole  hour  on  wisdom  teeth  was  a  hard  idea  to  sell,  but  we  ﬁnally  got  everybody  to  go  along  with  it.  Risk-taking  comes  with  the  turf  at  this  level.  This  year  I'm  going  to  have  a  real  Toyota.  Last  year  a  lot  of  people  thought  that  what  I  was  driving  was  a  Toyota,  but  it  was  really  a  Datsun  with  the  nameplate  worn  off.  This  year  it's  a  real  Toyota  that  I'll  be  driving  in  the  action  scenes,  and  I'm  excited  about  that.  When  I  drive  up  to  the  grocery  store  to  get  beer  or  dog  food,  you'llsee  me  behind  the  wheel  of  a  real  Toyota.  It's  part  of  my  contract  this  year.  My  hair  is  going  to  be  completely  different  this  year.  I'm  staying  with  the  same  team  that  handled  my  hair  last  year-Burell's  F  amlly  Hair  Par-  lor-but  this  year  we've  arranged  for  Bud  Burell  himself  to  do  the  actual  cutting.  This  will  give  me  a  whole  new  look.  Bud  has  personally  assured  me  that  he's  going  to  be  really  careful  shaving  off  the  little  hairs  on  the  back  of  my  neck.Also,  I  have  it  in  writing  that  nobody's  going  to  nick  me  back  there,  so  this  year  you  won't  beseeing  I’D  been  slipping  for  a  long  time,  but  any  dried  blood  on  my  neck,  like  last  year.  I  think  we  overdid  it  with  the  dried  blood  on  the  neck  last  year.  My  soundtrack?  Good  question.  I  can't  pretend  that  it's  not  important.  Last  year  it  was  all  National  Public  Radio  and  Berlitz  Basic  French  tapes.  That  worked  fine,  but  this  year  I'll  be  leaning  toward  whirring  attic  fans  and  corduroy  pants  that  make  a  brushing  noise  when  I  walk.  Once  in  a  while  I'll  whistle,  but  I'm  not  going  to  whistle  every  week,  the  way  I  did  last  year.  This  year  when  I  whistle  it  will  be  special.  I'm  going  to  do  a  two-hour  thing  at  the  beginning  ofthe  season,  and  I'll  be  whistling  in  that,  but  then  I  won't  whistle  again  until  late  Novem-  ber,  at  the  earliest.  This  year  whistling  won't  be  the  norm-it  will  be  an  event.  I  think  that's  the  way  it  should  be.  COLORS  have  alwaysbeen  impor-  tant  to  my  success,  and  they  still  are.  This  year  I  want  everything  to  just  vibrate  with  contrast!  I  want  a  red  ketchup  bottle  on  my  metallic-mauve  refrigerator  door.  I  want  a  cheap  os-  cillating  fan  with  transparent  blue  blades  right  in  front  of  a  stark-white  dishwasher.  I  have  this  vision  of  a  dark-brown  wooden  bookcase  in  front  of  a  wall  covered  with  flowered  wall-  paper.  My  colors  have  to  be  wildly  juxtaposed  if  the  whole  thing  is  going  to  work.  This  year  we're  staying  with  colors,  just  like  last  year.  The  only  difference  is  that  we're  going  to  use  different  colors,  is  all.  We  know  which  side  my  bread  is  buttered  on.  My  success  came  from  being  hip  and  high-style,  but  it  was  my  ettitude  that  was  really  the  big  factor,  andI'm  not  messing  around  Ner  l&quot;  I     35  with  that.  My  attitude  is  ﬁnng  to  be  exactly  the  same  this  year.  obody  has  to  worry  about  that.  I'm  still  going  to  be  hip.  And  I'm  still  going  to  be  high-  style.  Let  me  talk  about  something  a  little  bit  more  sensitive  here,  if  I  might.  I  have  been  accused,  by  people  who  should  know,  of  being  too  hip  for  my  own  good.  Some  ofthese  people  have  said  that  last  yeara  lot  of  my  dialogue  went  right  past  them.  It  was  gone  almost  before  folks  even  had  a  chance  to  hear  it  and  respond.  Also,  some  people  said  that  my  whole  life  was  really  just  a  rock-video  montage,  without  any  substance  behind  it.  I've  listened  to  these  complaints  and  criti-  cisms,  and  while  I  don't  agree  with  them  I  am  going  to  do  something  about  them.  This  year  I'm  going  to  go  out  of  my  way  to  show  myself  as  a  real  three-dimensional  person.  You'll  see  this  when  my  parents  are  featured  for  an  hour,  later  in  the  year  (around  January),  and  I'm  seen  as  having  a  real  part  in  the  relationship,  with  real  emotions  and  real  feelings.  I  was  very  emphatic  about  this  when  we  prepared  for  the  new  season.  I  don't  want  to  become  some  trendy  image.  I  want  to  be  a  real  flesh-and-bloodcharacter  that  people  can  relate  to.  My  demos  were,  quite  frankly,  un-  believable  last  year.  This  year  we're  looking  for  more  of  the  same.  Eventu-  ally  I  can  see  me  evolvmg  into  a  very  hip,  very  modern  continuation  of  some  of  the  people  who  were  here  before  me.  But  all  that'sin  the  future-so  far  in  the  future  that  it's  hard  for  me  to  get  a  focus  on  it  yet.  Right  now,  I've  got  this  new  season  in  front  of  me,  and  that's  enough. 