  WHAT  HAPPENED  EAR:  We  are  fine.  Please  do  not  worry  about  us.  I  know  it  must  have  come  as  a  shock  tofind  your  wife  and  children  gone  when  you  got  home  from  work,  but  there  is  nothing  to  worry  about.  We  are  still  the  same  loving  family  we  were  before.  Nothing  has  changed.  I  will  send  you  a  post-  office  box  number  where  we  can  be  reached  just  as  soon  asI  know  where  we'll  be,  but  at  this  point  I  don't  know  when  that  will  be.  All  I  can  say  is  that  any  concern  or  anxiety  on  your  part  would  be  premature  and  alarmist.  Still,  I  know  you  can't  help  asking  yourself:  What  happened?  And  the  answer  is:  Nothing.  Doc  hung  a  curveball  a  couple  of  times,  that's  all.  It  could  happen  to  anyone.  There's  no  more  to  it  than  that.  The  Mets  are  still  a  winning  team.  What  matters  now  is  to  take  things  one  day  at  a  time.  Please  try  to  understand  that  al-  though  nothing  has  changed,  nothing  can  stay  exactly  the  same,  either.  No  sane  person  could  possibly  have  ex-  pected  Doc  to  sustain  the  incredible  greatness  of  last  year.  To  expect  that  would  be  to  expect  superhuman  perfec-  tion.  Even  Doc  himself  would  admit  that.  But  it's  no  reason  to  suspectthat  there's  some  hidden  explanation  for  why  things  don't  seem  to  be  going  as  well  as  they  used  to  (which  doesn't  mean  things  have  changed,  just  that  they're  not  going  as  well).  Knowing  you,  I  can  tell  that  your  mind  is  al-  ready  racing  with  all  sorts  of  gloomy  scenarios  based  on  little  things  that  have  happened  in  the  past  and  now,  in  retrospect,  loom  as  significant-like  the  ankle  sprain  before  spring  train-  ing.  Believe  me,  I  have  searched  my  heart  about  the  possibility  that  maybe  the  ankle  sprain  (without  my  even  con-    sciously  realizing  it)  might  have  some-  thing  to  do  with  this,  and  I  feel  it's  highly  unlikely.  Also,  I  hope  you  won't  be  tempted  to  dwell  onsome  distressing  generalization  like  &quot;over-  throwing&quot;  (because  there  is  no  such  thing).  I  pray  that  other  people  won't  encourage  you  in  this  line  of  thinking.  There's  always  someone  who  will  play  on  your  nerves  by  saying,  This  is  not  as  good  as  it  was  yesterday,  so  there  must  be  something  wrong.  When,  in  fact,  that's  a  contradiction.  If  any-  thing,  there's  reason  to  think  the  op-  posite.  If  things  are  not  as  good  as  they  were  yesterday,  isn't  that  all  the  more  reason  to  believe  that  chances  are  they  will  be  better  next  time?  Espe-  cially  for  a  young  man  with  Dwight  Gooden's  extraordinary  poise.  Now,  dear,  I  want  to  confess  some-  thing  that  I'm  sure  you're  unaware  of.  For  the  past  few  months,  every  night  after  you've  fallen  asleep  I've  been  go-  ing  downstairs  and  watching  hundreds  of  hours  of  videotapes  comparing  Doc's  pitching  motion  last  year  and  this  year.  I  didn't  tell  you  about  this,  because  I  didn't  want  to  upset  you.  But  you  know  what  I  discovered?  There  is  absolutely  no  difference!  It's  just  that  now  he's  not  getting  as  many  batters  out.  In  other  words,  this  is  a  more  mature  Doc.  That's  all  I'm  trying  to  explain.  But  I  can  just  hear  you  saying,  What  is  the  problem,  then?  Why  has  she  gone  away  with  the  children  and  refused  to  tell  me  where  she  is?  I  can  assure  you  with  every  bone  in  my  body  that  there  is  no  problem.  Last  year  was  the  greatest  year  I've  ever  known,  and  I  feel  confident  that  future  years  will  fulfill  that  potential,  which  may  neces-  sitate  a  few  minor  adjustments  in  Doc's  mechanics,  something  that  a  number  of  qualified  people  are  helping  him  with.  Above  all,  I  beg  you  not  to  pin  any  blame  on  Mel  Stottlemyre,  who  doesn't  even  know  us.  There's  one  thing  I'm  sure  of.  If  you  really  have  something,  then  al-  most  by  definition  there  are  going  to  be  certain  times  when  you  don't  have  it.  If  I  didn't  believe  that,  I  wouldn't  be  so  convinced  that  at  this  very  moment  you  and  I  are  closer  than  any  two  people  could  possibly  be.  Someday  we'll  look  back  on  all  this  and,  with  the  complex  understanding  that  comes  from  placing  great  demands  upon  our-  selves,  we'll  be  able  to  say,  It  was  nothing.  -Love,  Kay  [REDACTED]:  And  Doc?  He's  better  than  ever. "