  GET  BY  IGHT  after  the  windup  of  the  R  memorial  service,  there  in  the  hospital  chapel  that  evening  in  February,  the  principal  of  the  elemen-  tary  school  where  my  husband,  Kit,  had  taught  approached  me.  Enough  of  a  crowd  had  gathered  and  passed  that  I  had  to  inch  over  and  strain  to  hear  him,  because  the  chapel  doors  had  opened.  From  down  the  hall  there  were  metal  bed  and  tray  noises,  buzz-  ers  and  dings,  and  doctor-paging  voices,  as  my  husband's  mourners  made  their  exit.  My  mother-in-law,  Rennie,  still  sat  in  the  pew  behind  me,  arm-rocking  the  baby,  who  was  sounding  little  pleas.  The  principal  was  talking  to  me.  &quot;I  think  I've  found  a  replacement  for  Kit,&quot;  he  said.  I  had  to  let  that  remark  hang  there  for  a  beat.  He  meant  another  teacher.  He  was  either  too  cruel  or  too  vacant  a  person  to  have  prefaced  it  in  some  way.  He  said,  &quot;Her  name's  Andrea  Dennis.  Came  down  from  Danbury  for  interviews  this  afternoon.  Knocked  us  sideways,  actually.  You  two  might  get  in  touch.&quot;  I  said,  &quot;Isn't  that  nice.&quot;  My  kids,  Ben  and  Bibi,  helped  me  up  from  the  pew.  The  principal  men-  tioned  he'd  tried  to  call  with  his  con-  dolences.  Possibly  he  had;  I  had  un-  plugged  all  three  of  our  phones.  After  we  got  home,  Ben  and  Bibi  lingered  in  the  back  yard.  It  was  snowing  by  now  -a  friendly  snow,  scurrying  in  the  floodlights  behind  the  house.  Rennie  took  over  the  couch.  She  had  the  baby  and  our  whole  stack  of  pastel  sympathy  cards.  &quot;Going  to  read  these,&quot;  she  said,  as  though  some-  one  ought  to  do  more  than  open  the  envelopes  and  nod,  acknowledging  the  signatures.  I  warmed  a  bottle  of  formula  in  hot  tap  water,  and  watched  my  children  through  the  window  over  the  sinks.  Bibi  had  fitted  into  the  tire  swing  somehow.  She  is  broad-bottomed  at  eighteen.  The  swing's  rope,  knotted  around  a  limb  of  the  weeping  willow  tree,  was  stiff  with  ice.  Ben  was  only  a  few  feet  away,  uri-  nating  onto  a  bump  of  snow.  I  had  to  look  twice,  to  be  sure.  He  was  eleven,  almost  eleven,  and  peeing  in  view  of  his  sister.  Bibi  had  just  colored  her  hair,  but  I  wasn't  ready  to  accept  her  as  a  cham-  pagne  blonde  yet.  She  looks  femilier,  I'd  think,  whenever  I  happened  onto  her,  The  Saturday  morning  we  learned  about  Kit,  the  Old  Hadham  police  vis-  ited.  So  did  two  station  wagons  from  television  news  teams.  I  took  a  con-  firming  call  from  the  idiot  aircraft-  company  people  who'd  rented  Kit  the  light  plane  in  which  he  died.  After  the  call,  I  snapped  the  telephones  out  of  their  plastic  jacks,  and  Bibi  chain-  locked  the  door  of  the  upstairs  bath-  room  and  stripped  away  the  hair  color  nature  had  given  her.  MET  Andrea  Dennis.  I  was  at  the  school,  sorting  through  two  de-  cades'  worth  of  teacher  paraphernalia,  looking  for  anything  personal  in  class-  room  cupboards  and  in  Kit's  mammoth  oakwood  desk.  I  found  a  comb,  his  reading  glasses,  a  Swiss  Army  knife,  and  a  hardback  copy  of  &quot;Smiley's  Peo-  ple,&quot;  bookmarked  halfway.  This  was  on  a  school  day,  but  after  classes  had  adjourned.  Andrea  pushed  open  the  heavy  door  and  found  me.  She  in-  troduced  herself  in  an  inquiring  way:  &quot;I'm  Andrea?&quot;  We  talked  some.  We  didn't  say  any-  thing  I  thought  to  commit  to  memory.  I  spilled  Elmer's  Glue  all  over.  The  white  glue  moved  thickly  across  the  desk  blotter.  &quot;I'd  better  take  care  of  that,&quot;  Andrea  said.  &quot;Let  me  fetch  a  sponge  or  something,  from  the  lounge.&quot;  I  used  to  be  entirely  comfortable  in  the  staff-and-faculty  lounge.  Old  Hadham  Elementary  had  gone  up  in  '64.  Inside  and  out,  the  build-  ing  was  an  architectural  oddity.  Kit's  classroom  (he'd  had  half  of  sixth  grade),  for  instance,  was  in  the  shape  of  a  semicircle.  His  huge  desk  and  his  roller  chair  faced  out  from  the  straight  wall.  The  room  had  three  rising  rows  of  student  chairs  with  attached  lami-  nated  writing  arms.  The  floor  was  covered  with  jewel-blue  linoleum.  The  curved  wall  wore  a  band  of  pale  corkboard.  In  the  couple  of  weeks  Andrea  Den-  nis  had  been  teaching,  she'd  tacked  up  stuff  for  the  lull  between  Valentine's  Day  and  St.  Patrick's  Day.  There  were  pen-and-ink  drawings  that  looked  like  student  self-portraits  to  me.  Some  printed  quotes  were  pinned  up-sayings  of  statesmen  and  explor-  ers.  There  were  two  science  charts:  one  explaining  the  pollination  of  a  flower,  the  other  an  illustration  of  po-  lar  and  equatorial  weather  movements.  Left  over  from  Kit's  days  here  were  27  the  usual  flags-Old  Glory  and  the  [REDACTED]  state  flag-and  some  empty  hamster  cages  with  empty  water  fonts  and  play  wheels.  I  planned  to  leave  all  those  behind,  of  course,  as  well  as  Kit's  globe,  showing  the  continents  and  oceans  in  their  proper  cloudy  col-  ors.  Kit  hated  globes  with  countries  done  in  pink  or  purple.  I  had  to  admit  Andrea  Dennis  was  an  appealing  woman.  She  had  clearly  put  a  lot  of  clever  thought  and  effort  into  presenting  herself  at  her  best.  She  had  on  a  touch-me-please  cashmere  sweater  and  a  soft  wool-blend  skirt  with  a  lining  that  rustled.  Her  sheer  nylons  gleamed.  She  had  hair  long  enough  to  toss.  I  had  noticed  something  about  us.  Whenever  I  mentioned  Kit,  I  nodded  athis  desk.  When  Andrea  referred  to  him  once,  she  gestured  north.  Toward  the  forest  where  the  plane  fell?  I  hung  around  for  fifteen  minutes.  Andrea  didn't  return  with  the  sponge.  Anyway,  the  glue  had  hardened  by  now.  I  pictured  her  yakking  away  with  young  Mr.  Mankiewicz  or  flirt,  ing  with  old  Mr.  Sonner.  I  packed  Kit's  things  into  a  blue  nylon  gym  bag.  I  bundled  up  and  walked  home-a  matter  of  a  mile  or  so  -in  the  road.  My  part  of  [REDACTED]  has  no  proper  sidewalks.  I  kept  stum-  bling.  Ever  since  the  baby,  and  then  especially  after  what  happened  to  Kit,  I  had  been  sleeping  sporadically  and  then  only  in  short  spurts.  That  was  part  of  the  reason  I'd  been  so  clumsy  and  had  flubbed  with  the  glue.  My  getup  was  pretty  cockeyed,  too.  I  had  forgotten  to  wear  socks,  and  yet  the  shoelaces  on  my  Nikes  were  triple-bow-tied.  Beneath  my  parka,  my  sweater  was  lumpy  and  had  the  smell  of  Johnson's  baby  products,  as  did  the  whole  interior  of  our  beautiful  saltbhox  house  when  I  got  there-baby  oil,  baby  powder,  baby's  softened-fabric  bunting.  Everywhere  I  looked  was  bright  with  baby  things,  baby  artifacts.  I  went  into  the  kitchen,  grateful  for  Rennie,  who'd  tidied  up.  Renniehad  almost  never  stayed  with  us  when  Kit  was  alive.  We'd  seldom  gone  to  see  her.  She  lived  alone  on  what  had  once  been  an  apple  orchard,  near  Darien.  She  cared  for  the  big  central  house  there,  and  there  were  two  barns  and  two  brown  outbuildings  on  the  land.  Her  husband  had  long  ago  put  him-  self  into  a  V.A.  hospital.  He  was  a  troubled,  haunted  man.  I  had  wit-  nessed  some  behavior.  He'd  sit  for  long  afternoons  with  his  head  in  his  " b"28  hands.  He  would  roam  searchingly  over  the  yards  and  meadows.  He'd  seem  to  hide  beside  the  shadowy  brown  barns.  Other  times,  he'd  pitch  and  splatter  hard  apples  furiously  against  the  fallen-in  stone  walls  around  the  borders  of  the  orchard.  Thinking  of  him,  I  made  a  bet  with  myself  that  I  hoped  I  wouldn't  win.  I  bet  that  Rennie  connected  Kit's  ac-  cident  with  his  father's  illness.  That  would  have  been  unfair.  MARCH  came.  We'd  get  a  couple  more  snowstorms  in  Old  Hadham,  I  suspected.  Spring  wouldn't  arrive  in  any  decided  way  for  weeks  and  weeks.  But  I  was  seeing  new  grass  and  there  was  dry  pavement.  April  would  be  breathtaking  along  our  road.  There'd  be  arbutus,  hepaticas,  downy  yellow  violets.  In  the  living  room,  Rennie  had  sections  of  the  local  eve-  ning  newspaper  strewn  around.  The  baby  was  in  the  playpen,  wadding  and  tearing  a  Super  Duper  coupon  page.  &quot;Where's  the  baby's  dolly?&quot;  I  asked  Rennie.  She  said,  &quot;Ask  Ben.&quot;  &quot;Ben?  Ben  has  Susie  Soft  Sounds?&quot;  But  I  didn't  call  up  to  Ben.  Every  day,  it  seemed,  there  was  more  about  him  and  Bibi  that  I  didn't  care  to  know.  They  had  identical  rooms,  across  the  hall  from  each  other-identical  except  that  Bibi's  wallpaper  showed  jazz  dancers  against  a  mint-green  background,  whereas  Ben's  had  ponies  grazing  in  a  field.  The  night  before,  I  had  happened  past  the  rooms  and  heard  Bibi  say,  from  behind  Ben's  door,  &quot;I  am  safely  buzzed.&quot;  Next  I  heard  the  pop-tab  open  what  I  as-  sumed  was  a  beer  can.  &quot;That's  your  third!&quot;  Ben  had  whis-  pered.  Another  curious  moment  was  when  I  noticed  something  in  among  Bibi's  hand  laundry;  she  had  borrowed  my  pushup  bra.  Bibi  talked  a  lot  about  Andrea  Den-  nis  these  days.  Andrea,  it  turned  out,  sometimes  snacked  after  school  at  the  Nutmeg  Tea  and  Sandwich  Shop,  where  Bibi  waited  tables.  It  seemed  as  if  Andreawas  always  with  someone  I  knew  well,  or  had  known.  I  could  never  resist  saying,  &quot;Really?  What  did  she  have  on?  Did  she  look  tired?  Who  picked  up  the  check?  Did  they  have  desserts  or  entr\xc3\xa9es?  Did  she  have  that  fruit  cup?&quot;  I  WAS  driving  home  from  the  law-  yers'.  The  airplane  company's  in-  surance  people  had  investigated  and  decided  to  settle  some  money  on  me.  I  liked  it  about  the  money,  but  what  I  wanted  just  now  was  my  bed,  pillows,  the  electric  blanket.  For  three  days,  a quiet  sleet  had  been  falling  on  Old  Hadham.  The  car's  windshield  wiper  on  my  side  suddenly  locked  taut  on  a  diago-  nal.  A  film  formed  immediately  on  my  part  of  the  glass.  Itried  the  squirters,  but  all  I  got  was  blue  fluid  congealing  with  the  ice  at  the  base  of  the  wind-  shield.  I  maneuvered  down  Willow,  on  Old  Hadham's  steepest  hill-a  plunger  that  had  been  only  cursorily  sanded.  There  was  a  car  not  far  ahead,  and  a  truck  on  my  tail,  no  shoulder.  I  had  to  tip  my  head  out  the  driver's  window  to  see.  Meanwhile,  Rennie  was  smiling,  half  asleep.  The  baby  said  a  noise  very  much  like  &quot;Why?&quot;  I  had  something  close  to  nausea  sud-  denly:  suddenly  missing  Kit.  THE  baby  woke  me.  It  was  an  April  morning,  pre-dawn.  I  was  groggy,  but  I  had  a  sweet  dream  still  playing  in  my  head-some  of  the  dream's  color  and  its  melody-as  I  heated  water  for  the  formula  and  started  coffee.  &quot;Here  we  come!&quot;  Ren-  nie  said,  and  drove  the  baby's  castered  crib  into  the  kitchen.  Rennie  was  oddly  cheerful,  giddy.  Her  taffeta  robe  was  on  inside  out.  She  sat  down  and  swayed  the  crib  and  sang  some  ballad  about  whaling  boats  and  messmates,  with  a  line  about  the  lowland  sea.  To  distract  the  baby,  Rennie  had  dropped  a  fat  nest  of  pink  excelsior  into  the  crib-a  leftover  from  Easter  baskets.  I  was  a  little  afraid  the  baby  would  eat  the  pink  cel-  lophane,  so  I  intended  to  snatch  it  away.  But  for  now  the  excelsior  ball  rolled  back  and  forth  with  the  crib's  movement,  and  with  Rennie's  song  and  what  rhythms  there  were  of  my  lingering  dream.  When  the  baby  was  asleep,  we  two  sipped  coffee.  I  figured  Rennie  would  bestepping  out  onto  the  porch  for  sunrise,  as  she  some-  times  did,  but  instead  she  said  she  wanted  to  talk  about  her  son,  about  Kit.  I  told  her  what  I  knew  was  true-  that  his  character  faults  included  overconfidence  and  impulsiveness.  I  said  that  he  had  re-  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  ceived  flying  lessons  and  his  license.  But  whatever  his  license  signified,  he  hadn't  been  ready,  not  compe-  tent,  to  solo-pilot  a  plane.  LOT  of  Old  Hadham  showed  up  at  Chicwategue  Park  for  Memorial  Day.  Some  people  brought  picnic  dinners  and  thermoses  or  coolers  of  drinks.  The  high  school's  brass-  and-drum  corps  was  there  to  do  shows.  There  were  two  bur-  ros  roped  to  a  post  for  the  little  kids  to  ride  around  a  guided  circle.  Chicwategue  Park  had  ducks  on  a  pond,  and  a  pair  of  swans-  the  town  favorites-  who'd  made  it  through  the  winter,  and  bronze  statues  of  Revolu-  tionary  War  generals,  and,  in  the  center,  a  white-painted,  lacy-looking  gazebo.  On  the  soccer  fields  beyond  the  woods,  there  would  be  footraces  and  other  competitions  throughout  the  day.  Rennie  had  given  Ben  a  two-year-old  boxer  she'd  pur-  chased  through  a  newspaper  ad,  and  Ben  had  entered  himself  and  Reebok  in  the  Frisbee  contest.  I  set  up  camp  on  a  faded  quilt  with  the  baby.  Rennie  took  Bibi  to  gamble  away  some  of  her  waitress  tips  from  the  Nutmeg  at  the  bingo  tables.  Watching  them  go,  I  noticed  Andrea  Dennis  over  by  the  penny-toss  place-  sporty  and  pretty  in  spotless  sky-blue  sweats,  with  a  balloon  on  a  ribbon  looped  at  her  wrist.  She  and  Bibi  greeted  each  other  like  classmates,  with  a  hug.  Bibi's  appearance  looked  to  me  like  a  screaming-out-loud  reaction  to  An-  drea  Dennis.  Bibi  had  whacked  her  fake-blond  hair  into  bristles  and  points,  and  her  face  was  dusted  with  chalky  makeup.  Her  lips  looked  almost  black,  and  the  tank  top  and  jeans  she  wore  were  black.  Still,  Andrea  was  giving  Bibi  approving  looks  and  nods.  But  if  Bibi's  getups  scared  people,  at  least  her  manner  had  improved.  That  morning  at  breakfast,  I'd  overheard  her  saying  to  Ben,  &quot;Relax  and  sit  still.  I'll  fix  you  a  fresh  glass  of  orange  juice.&quot;  Now  Ben's  name  was  called  over  the  P.A.  system.  I  carried  the  baby  and  trailed  Ben  and  Reebok  over  to  the  starting  stripe  on  the  Frisbee-competi-  tion  field.  Ben  had  the  dog's  collar  in  one  hand  and  his  yellow  Frisbee  in  the  other.  Ben  was  down  on  one  knee  and  the  dog  was  trembling  with  excitement  as  they  waited  for  the  judge's  signal  to  begin  their  routine.  At  the  whistle,  the  dog  bolted  away  down  the  field.  Ben  stood  up  and  let  fly.  His  first  couple  of  tries  were  long,  too  fast  throws,  and  the  Frisbee  sailed  yards  over  Reebok's  head.  The  dog  wasn't  paying  attention  anyhow.  On  their  third  and  last  turn,  Reebok  watched  as  he  ran,  then  leaped,  fish-  tailed,  and  chomped  the  disk,  but  only  after  it  had  ricocheted  twice  off  the  dirt.  At  the  gazebo,  the  Frisbee  judge  held  up  a  card,  giving  Ben  and  Reebok  a  &quot;4&quot;  rating.  Andrea  Dennis  strolled  over  to  us.  She  introduced  herself  to  the  baby  and  sort  of  shookhands  with  him.  Ben  and  the  dog  came  over.  Ben's  young  face  was  bright,  but  I  couldn't  tell  if  it  was  from  excitement  or  embarrass-  ment.  Andrea  said,  &quot;Man,  you  got  robbed!  Your  dog  flew  six  feet  straight  up.  29     What  do  they  wont'  They  should've  given  you  guys  a  special  award.&quot;  Ben  absorbed  this.  I  knew  that  on  the  car  ride  home  he  would  relive  Reebok's  last  effort  for  Bibi  and  Ren-  nie.  He'd  say  he  got  robbed.  I  asked  him  to  watch  the  baby  a  minute-to  make  sure  the  kid  didn't  crawl  away,  go  swimming  after  the  swans,  or  filch  anyone's  barbecued  spareribs.  I  clapped  a  hand  on  the  smooth  blue  sweatshirt  material  on  Andrea's  shoul-  der.  &quot;What  did  I  do?&quot;  Andrea  said,  and  I  said,  &quot;A  lot.&quot;  We  walked  along  together  by  the  rows  of  blankets  and  the  outdoor  fur-  niture  that  bordered  the  competition  fields.  We  said  hello  to  people-fel-  low-teachers  of  Andrea's,  the  families  of  some  of  her  students,  old  friends  of  mine.  I  was  thinking  how  to  tell  her  that  she  had  been  an  important  distraction  for  me-maybe  even  a  necessary  one.  She'd  been  someone  safe  for  me  to  focus  on  while  the  reality  of  having  no  Kit  was  so  fierce.  I  realized  I  couldn't  make  my  interest  in  her  into  anything  polite  or  easy  to  explain.  I  said,  &quot;Gen-  erally,  thanks,  Andrea,&quot;  and  I  told  her  how  great  she  looked  in  her  blue.  -Mary  Rosson  "