 HORSE  LL  the  other  Seniors  were  over  at  the  street  side  of  the  parking  lot,  but  Sal  stayed  with  her  sister  Norah  while  they  waited  for  the  bus  drivers.  &quot;Maybe  you'll  be  in  the  creek  cabin,&quot;  Sal  said,  quiet  and  seri-  ous.  &quot;I  had  it  second  year.  It's  the  best  one.  Number  Five.&quot;  &quot;How  do  they-when  do  you,  like,  find  out  what  cabin?&quot;  asked  Norah.  &quot;'They  better  remember  we're  in  the  same  cabin,&quot;  Ev  said,  sounding  shrill.  Norah  did  not  look  at  her.  She  and  Ev  had  planned  for  months  and  known  for  weeks  that  they  were  to  be  cabinmates,  but  what  good  was  that  if  they  never  found  their  cabin,  and  also  Sal  was  not  looking  at  Ev,  only  at  Norah.  Sal  was  cool,  a  tower  of  ivory.  &quot;'They  show  you  around  as  soon  as  you  get  there,&quot;  she  said,  her  quiet  voice  speaking  directly  to  Norah's  dream  last  night  of  never  finding  the  room  where  she  had  to  take  a  test  she  was  late  for  and  looking  among  end-  less  thatched  barracks  in  a  forest  of  thin  black  trees  growing  very  close  together,  like  hair  under  a  hand  lens.   Norah  had  told  no  one  the  dream,  and  now  remembered  and  forgot  it.  &quot;'Then  you  have  dinner,  and  First  Campfire,&quot;  Sal  said.  &quot;Kimmy's  going  to  be  a  counsellor  again.  She's  really  neat.  Listen,  you  tell  old  Meredy  .  ..&quot;  Norah  drew  breath.  In  all  the  histo-  ries  of  Horse  Camp  which  she  had  asked  for  and  heard  over  and  over  for  three  years-the  thunderstorm  story,  the  horse-thief  story,  the  wonderful  Stevens  Mountain  storiee-in  all  of  them  Meredy  the  handler  had  been:  Meredy  said,  Meredy  did,  Meredy  knew  ...  &quot;Tell  him  I  saidhi,&quot;  Sal  said,  with  a  shadowy  smile,  looking  across  the  parking  lot  at  the  far,  insubstantial  towers  of  downtown.  Behind  them  the  doors  of  the  Junior  Girls  bus  gasped  open.  One  after  another  the  engines  of  the  four  buses  roared  and  spewed.  Across  the  asphalt,  in  the  hot  morning  light,  small  figures  were  lining  up  and  climbing  into  the  Junior  Boys  bus.  High,  rough,  faint  voices  bawled.  &quot;O.K.,  hey,  have  fun,&quot;  Sal  said.  She  hugged  Norah  and  then,  keeping  a  hand  on  her  arm,  looked  down  at  her  intently  for  a  moment  from  the  tower  of  ivory.  She  turned  away.  Norah  watched  her  walk,  light-foot  and  buxom,  across  the  black  gap  to  the  others  of  her  kind,  who  enclosed  her,  greeting  her,  &quot;Sal!  Hey,  Sal!&quot;  Ev  was  twitching  and  nickering,  &quot;Come  on,  Nor,  come  on.  We'll  have  to  sit  way  at  the  back.  Come  on!&quot;  Side  by  side,  they  pressed  into  the  line  be-  low  the  gaping  doorway  of  the  bus.  In  Number  Five  cabin,  four  iron  cots,  thin-mattressed,  gray-blanketed,  stood  strewn  with  bottles  of  insect  re-  pellent  and  styling  mousse,  T-shirts  lettered  &quot;UCSD&quot;  and  &quot;I  \xc2\xa5  Teddy  Bears,&quot;  a  flashlight,  an  apple,  a  comb  with  hair  caught  in  it,  a  paperback  book  open  face  down:  &quot;The  Black  Colt  of  Pirate  Island.&quot;  Over  the  shin-  gle  roof  huge  second-growth  red-  woods  cast  deep  shade,  and  a  few  feet  below  the  porch  the  creek  ran  out  into  sunlight  over  brown  stones  streaming  bright-green  weed.  Behind  the  cabin  Jim  Meredith,  the  horse-handler,  a  short  man  of  fifty  who  had  ridden  as  a  jockey  in  his  teens,  walked  along  the  well-beaten  path,  quick  and  a  bit  bow-  legged.  Meredith's  lips  were  pressed  firmly  together.  His  eyes,  narrow  and  darting,  glanced  from  cabin  to  cabin,  from  side  to  side.  Far  through  the  trees  high  voices  cried.  The  counsellors  know  what  is  to  be  known.  Red  Ginger,  blond  Kimmy,  and  beautiful  black  Sue:  they  know  the  vices  of  Pal,  and  how  to  keep  Trigger  from  putting  her  head  down  and  drinking  for  ten  minutes  from  every  creek.  They  strike  the  great  shoulders  smartly:  &quot;Aw,  get  over,  you  big  lunk!&quot;&quot;  They  know  how  to  swim  un-  derwater,  how  to  sing  in  harmony,  how  to  get  seconds,  and  when  a  shoe  is  loose.  They  know  where  they  are.  They  know  where  the  rest  of  Horse  Camp  is.  &quot;Home  [REDACTED]  runs  into  Lit,  tle  River  here,&quot;  Kimmy  says,  drawing  lines  in  the  soft  dust  with  a  redwood  twig  that  breaks.  &quot;Senior  Girls  here,  Senior  Boys  across  there,  Junior  Bird-  men  about  here.&quot;  &quot;Who  needs  'em?&quot;  says  Sue,  yawn-  ing.  &quot;Come  on,  who's  going  to  help  me  walk  the  mares?&quot;  They  were  all  around  the  campfire  on  Quartz  Meadow  after  the  long  first     " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  day  of  the  First  Overnight.  The  coun-  sellors  were  still  singing,  but  very  soft,  so  soft  you  almost  couldn't  hear  them,  lying  in  the  sleeping  bag  listening  to  One  Spot  stamp  and  Trigger  snort  and  the  shifting  at  the  pickets,  stand-  ing  in  the  fine,  cool  alpine  grass  listen-  ing  to  the  soft  voices  and  the  sleepers  shifting  and,  later,  one  coyote  down  the  mountain  singing  all  alone.  &quot;Nothing  wrong  with  you.  Get  up!&quot;  said  Meredy,  and  slapped  her  hip.  Turning  her  long,  delicate  head  to  him  with  a  deprecating  gaze,  Philly  got  to  her  feet.  She  stood  a  moment,  shuddering  the  reddish  silk  of  her  flank  as  if  to  dislodge  flies,  tested  her  left  foreleg  with  caution,  and  then  walked  on,  step  by  step.  Step  by  step,  watching,  Norah  went  with  her.  In-  side  her  body  there  was  still  a  deep  trembling.  As  she  passed  him,  the  handler  just  nodded.  &quot;You're  all  right,&quot;  he  meant.  She  was  all  right.  Freedom,  the  freedom  to  run,  free-  dom  is  to  run.  Freedom  is  galloping.  What  else  can  it  be?  Only  other  ways  to  run,  imitations  of  galloping  across  great  highlands  with  the  wind.  Oh,  Philly,  sweet  Philly,  my  love!  If  Ev  and  Trigger  couldn't  keep  up  she'd  slow  down  and  come  round  in  a  while,  after  a  while,  over  there,  across  the  long,  long  field  of  grass,  once  she  had  learned  this  by  heart  and  knew  it  for-  ever,  the  purity,  the  pure  joy.  &quot;Right  leg,  Nor,&quot;  said  Meredy.  And  passed  on  to  Cass  and  Tammy.  You  have  to  start  with  the  right  fore.  Everything  else  is  all  right.  Freedom  depends  on  this,  that  you  start  with  the  right  fore,  that  long  leg  well  balanced  on  its  elegant  pastern,  that  you  set  down  that  tiptoe  middle  fingernail,  so  hard  and  round,  and  spurn  the  dirt.  High-stepping,  trot  past  old  Meredy,  who  always  hides  his  smile.  ba  Shoulder  to  shoulder,  she  and  Ev,  in  the  long  heat  of  afternoon,  in  a  trance  of  light,  across  the  home  creek  in  the  dry  wild  oats  and  cow  parsley  of  the  Long  Pasture.  I  was  afraid  before  I  came  here,  thinks  Norah,  incredulous,  remembering  childhood.  She  leans  her  head  against  Ev's  firm  and  silken  side.  The  sting  of  small  flies  awakens,  the    swish  of  long  tails  sends  to  sleep.  Down  by  the  creek,  in  a  patch  of  coarse  grass,  Philly  grazes  and  dozes.  Sue  comes  striding  by,  winks  wordless,  beautiful  as  a  burning  coal,  lazy  and  purposeful,  bound  for  the  shade  of  the  willows.  Is  it  worth  getting  up  to  go  down  to  get  your  feet  in  the  cool  wa-  ter?  Next  year  Sal  will  be  too  old  for  a  camper,  but  can  come  back  as  a  coun-  sellor,  come  back  here.  Norah  will  come  back  a  second-year  camper,  Sal  a  counsellor.  They  will  be  here.  This  is  what  freedom  is,  what  goes  on-the  sun  in  summer,  the  wild  grass,  coming  back  each  year.  Coming  back  from  the  long  pack  trip  to  Stevens  Mountain,  weary  and  dirty,  thirsty  and  in  bliss,  coming  down  from  the  high  places,  in  line,  Sue  jogging  just  in  front  of  her  and  Ev  half  asleep  behind  her-some  sound  or  motion  caught  and  turned  Norah's  head  to  look  across  the  alpine  field.  On  the  far  side,  under  dark  firs,  a  line  of  horses,  mounted  and  with  packs:  &quot;Look!&quot;  Ev  snorted.  Sue  flicked  her  ears  and  stopped.  Norah  halted  in  line  behind  her,  stretching  her  neck  to  see.  She  saw  her  sister  going  first  in  the  dis-  tant  line,  the  small  head  proudly  borne.  She  was  walking  light-foot  and  easy,  fresh,  just  starting  up  to  the  high  passes  of  the  mountain.  On  her  back  a  young  man  sat  erect,  his  fine,  fair  head  turned  a  little  aside,  to  the  forest.  One  hand  was  on  his  thigh,  the  other  on  the  reins,  guiding  her.  Norah  called  out  and  then  broke  from  the  line,  go-  ing  to  Sal,  calling  out  to  her.  &quot;No,  no,  no,  no!&quot;  she  called.  Behind  her,  Ev  and  then  Sue  called  to  her,  &quot;Nor!  Nor!&quot;  Sal  did  not  hear  or  heed.  Going  straight  ahead,  the  color  of  ivory,  dis-  tant  in  the  clear,  dry  light,  she  stepped  into  the  shadow  of  the  trees.  The  others  and  their  riders  followed,  jog-  ging  one  after  the  other  till  the  last  was  gone.  Norah  had  stopped  in  the  middle  of  the  meadow,  and  stood  in  grass  in  sunlight.  Flies  hummed.  She  tossed  her  head,  turned,  and  trotted  back  to  the  line.  She  went  along  it  from  one  to  the  next,  teasing,  chivying,  Kimmy  yelling  at  her  to  get  back  in  line,  till  Sue  broke  out  of  line  to  chase  her  and  she  ran,  and  then  Ev  began  to  run,  whinnying  shrilly,  and  then  Cass  and  Philly  and  all  the  rest,  the  whole  bunch,  cantering  first  and  then  running  flat  out,  running  wild,  racing,  heading  for  Horse  Camp  and  the  Long  Pasture,  for  Meredy  and  the  long  evening  standing  in  the  fenced  field,  in  the  sweet  dry  grass,  in  the  fetlock-shallow  water  of  the  home  creek.  "