AT  THE  TUTOR'S  MY  son,  Philip,  was  foundering  in  the  second  grade.  His  teacher,  Genevieve  Slattery,  was  like  someone  in  a  Wagner  opera  -huge  and  bellowing.  All  she  needed  was  a  great  Viking  helmet  with  horns.  She  didn't  harm  the  children  who  did  well.  But  if  any  children  had  learning  problems,  or  were  in  the  least  self-  conscious  or  wept  easily,  she  ridiculed  them  and  pointed  out  their  flaws  to  the  other  children;  being  small  and  imma-  ture,  they  stared  or  laughed  and  made  everything  worse.  At  the  beginning  of  each  schoolyear  she  elected  to  read  to  the  class  everyone's  formal-reading-  test  score,  including  the  very  poor  ones,  and  at  the  end  of  the  year  she  callously  recited  the  list  of  those  who  would  pass  on  to  the  third  grade.  It  was  like  something  from  another  cen-  tury,  another  culture.  I  found  out  that  she  hadhad  emo-  tional  difficulties  herself  as  a  child  in  a  Catholic  school;  often,  merely  having  to  show  up  in  the  morning  made  her  vomit,  and  a  wealthy  aunt  ended  up  conveying  her  to  school  each  day  in  a  black  Lincoln  limousine,  soothing  and  reassuring  her  sothat  she  could  sur-  vive.  You'd  think  she  would  have  had  great  sensitivity  and  compassion  as  a  teacher  of  small  children.  But  her  mis-  fortune  must  have  overwhelmed  her.  She  never  married  and  was  never  seen  with  a  man.  When  parents  confronted  her  about  her  part  in  their  children's  fears  and  sorrows,  she  batted  her  big,  brown  eyes  and  looked  shy  and  in-  nocent.  &quot;Who-me?&quot;  she  seemed  to  say,  coyly  turning  in  on  herself.  Philip-a  thin,  active  boy-was  well  behaved  in  the  classroom.  Al-  though  already  artistic  by  nature  and  somewhat  rebellious  at  home,  until  now  he  had  done  well  enough  in  school.  But  this  year  he  was  inatten-  tive  and  he  daydreamed,  so  he  could  hardly  escape  Miss  Slattery's  harsh,  ness.  One  December  day  she  was  about  to  give  the  weekly  spelling  test  and  saw  him  ready  to  start  with  the  two-  inch  remainder  ofa  pencil.  She  snatched  it  out  of  his  hand,  flung  it  across  the  room,  and  shouted  at  him  to  take  the  test  with  a  proper  pencil.  He  said  he  had  no  other.  She  yanked  the  back  of  his  desk  up  and  tipped  it  to-  ward  him,  and  all  its  contents  crashed  to  the  floor.  &quot;Pick  it  up  and  find  one!&quot;  she  said  with  a  little  gleam  in  her  eye.  She  was  fifty,  and  her  close,  black     ringlet  curls  shone  as  she  tossed  her  bovine  head.  In  her  excitement,  her  damp  bleached  mustache  glowed.  She  proceeded  immediately  to  give  the  test.  Philip  put  everything  back  in  his  desk,  then  just  sat  in  his  chair.  He  always  brought  all  his  papers  home,  and  that  week's  test  never  appeared,  so  I  knew  that  his  account  of  the  incident  was  probably  all  true.  Of  course,  when  he  told  my  wife,  Liza,  and  me  about  it,  Philip  did  not  mention  theeye  gleam  and  mustache.  But  I  had  sat  amazed  at  them  myself  during  a  conference  with  Miss  Slattery  a  month  earlier.  Now,  enraged,  I  wanted  to  go  in  and  inform  the  princi-  pal  of  her  behavior,  have  Philip  moved  to  another  room.  But  Liza-herself  brought  up  a  Catholic,  used  to  submit-  ting  unquestioningly  to  authority-  said  it  would  only  make  Philip  more  conspicuous  and  make  Miss  Slattery  meaner  to  him  in  the  future  if  he  couldn't  be  moved.  It  was  with  great  reluctance  that  I  let  Liza  have  her  way.  I  had  never  been  good  at  accept-  ing  authority,  and  now  I  felt  that  I  was  surrendering  to  Liza  against  my  better  judgment.  She  tried  to  help  Philip  at  home  with  his  work,  spending  exhausting  hours  with  him  at  the  kitchen  table.  One  night,  weeping,  he  finally  lashed  out  at  her,  shouted  that  he  hated  school,  and  wildly  ran  all  over  the  house.  After  a  while  I  said,  &quot;Leave  him  alone.  He's  bright-he'll  find  his  way  to  it  on  his  own.&quot;  &quot;He's  got  to  do  what's  required  of  him,&quot;  Liza  insisted.  EARLY  in  the  spring  a  friend  of  Liza's  referred  her  to  a  tutor,  and  she  made  an  appointment  for  Philip.  JUNE  16,  1986  The  tutor's  name  was  Eileen  Gogarty.  She  was  a  social  worker  who'd  quit  her  job  to  raise  a  family.  She  had  taken  courses  in  education  and  child  de-  velopment.  She  lived  a  few  miles  from  our  house,  which  was  in  the  vil-  lage.  I  drove  Philip  past  farmhouses,  fields,  and  stone  walls,  until  we  reached  a  silent  housing  development,  where  Eileen  had  told  us  she  lived  in  a  gray  raised  ranch.  All  the  houses  looked  alike  to  me,  and  the  streets  ran  around  in  confusing  circles.  Finally  I  found  her  house  and  pulled  into  the  drive.  We  got  out  and  walked  to  the  front  door.  We  stood  on  a  concrete  step  under  a  little  roof.  Philip  rang  the  doorbell.  A  sturdy,  wan  girl  of  about  six  came  to  the  door,  wearing  blond  pigtails  and  glasses.  She  told  us  po-  litely  that  her  name  was  Janice.  Her  mother  came  and  stepped  outside  the  door  and  introduced  herself.  She  didn't  ask  me  into  thehouse.  I  said,  &quot;I'm  Dan  Shields,  and  this  is  Philip.  I  think  my  wife  called  you  about  him?&quot;  She  nodded.  She  was  in  her  late  thirties,  tall,  pale,  and  too  soft-looking.  She  wore  glasses  and  had  light-brown  hair  with  crinkled  white  strands  running  through  it,  pulled  back  in  a  bun.  We  stood  in  front  of  the  aluminum  storm  door  and  talked  for  a  few  minutes  about  Philip's  academic  problems,  and  Eileen  said  that  she  thought  she  could  help  him.  The  fee  was  twenty  dollars  an  hour.  He  would  be  coming  three  days  a  week.  I  said  goodbye,  and  she  and  Philip  went  down  a  dark,  short  flight  of  stairs  inside.  Outside,  as  I  passed  the  front  of  the  house,  I  looked  down  through  a  ground-level  window  at  a  little  office  with  a  desk,  two  chairs,  and  a  lighted  lamp.  Eileen  and  Philip  entered  it  together  as  I  walked  by.  I  drove  to  a  nearby  town  to  pick  Liza  up  from  work-she's  in  charge  of  a  large  department  in  an  insurance  company.  We  have  only  one  car.  Liza  doesn't  drive,  and  that  really  constricts  our  life.  If  I  bring  up  the  need  for  her  to  get  her  driver's  license,  she  says  that  her  reflexes  aretoo  slow-she's  afraid  she'd  kill  someone.  But  many  times  she  has  saved  our  lives  by  crying  &quot;Look  out!&quot;  just  in  time.  She  was  waiting  in  frontof  the  building  when  I  got  there.  She  looked  relieved  when  I  let  her  know  that  things  had  started  +_  smoothly  with  Eileen.  At  home  I  prepared  dinner-a  dish  made  of  chicken,  tomatoes,  white  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  wine,  and  wild  mar-  joram.  Sometimes  I  cook  as  a  way  of  shar-  ing  the  work.  Liza  hates  cooking,  but  it's  almost  therapeutic  for  me.  It  seems  to  complement  my  work,  which  is  exacting  and  delicate.  I  make  stained-glass  orna-  ments-some  of  them  abstract-in  ourga-  rage  and  wholesale  them  to  gift  shops  two  or  three  times  a  year.  I  admire  Chagall's  great  stained-glass  works,  and  I  try  to  get  something  of  his  vi-  brancy  and  color  in  my  small  pieces.  After  col-  lege,  I  wanted  nothing  more  than  to  be  a  sculptor  and  live  a  large,  unfettered  life.  But  I  sold  very  little,  grew  lonely,  and  even-  tually  longed  fora  wife  and  family.  Of  course,  one  does  have  to  earn  money.  I  don't  make  much.  Liza  earns  the  bulk  of  our  income.  Whenever  I  get  downhearted  about  it  and  say  I  should  get  a  salaried  job,  she  seems  not  to  hear  me-she  just  says  I  do  beautiful  work  and  tells  me  to  keep  right  on  doing  it.  I  drove  back  to  Eileen's  at  the  end  of  the  hour  and  rang  the  bell.  For  a  few  minutes,  no  one  answered,  though  I  had  just  seen  Eileen  and  Philip  working  together  at  the  desk  down  in  the  cellar  office.  At  last  I  heard  foot-  steps  on  the  stairs.  Eileen  came  out.  Philip  rushed  past  us,  shouted,  and  started  doing  somersaults  on  the  grass.  He  climbed  a  big  oak  tree  out  front.I  thought,  Look  at  him-he's  lovely  just  like  that.  Janice  appeared.  She  stood  beside  us,  watching  Philip-her  eyes  wide,  her  mouth  open  a  little,  as  if  in  hungry  awe  of  his  vitality  and  freedom  in  the  open  world.  Eileen  glanced  uneasily  at  him.  I  called  for  him  to  climb  down  and  he  did.  Janice  went  over  and  spoke  to  him.  They  ran  to  the  edge  of  the  property.  Standing  next  to  me,  Eileen  went  over  the  papers  Philip  had  done  with  her.  She  held  them  tight  and  they  flappedin  the  breeze,  as  if  they  were  struggling  to  fly  away.  They  weren't  \xc2\xae  LJ  good.  I  felt  small  and  hopeless-as  though  Z  were  responsible  for  them,  as  though  they  were  mine.  &quot;He's  certainly  intelligent,&quot;  Eileen  said.  &quot;He  asked  me  today  how  a  cat  can  tell  another  cat  is  a  cat.&quot;  She  shrugged  and  smiled  faintly,  as  if  to  say,  Well,  and  how  can  it?  &quot;But  he's  already  fighting,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;He  tries  anything  to  distract  himself  from  the  work.  It  may  take  a  while,  but  I'll  get  him  into  it  eventually.  He  just  needs  to  learn  to  contain  all  that  energy.  A  lot  of  boys  are  like  that.  He  needs  training  about  listening  and  concentrating  and  following  directions.&quot;  I  took  the  papers  from  her  and  gave  her  the  twenty  dollars  and  thanked  her.  I  had  a  little  trouble  making  Philip  calm  down  and  get  into  the  car.  He  loves  the  outdoors.  EACH  day  that  we  had  to  go  to  the  tutor's  I  felt  depressed,  humili-  ated,  and  angry.  And  what  about  Philip?  He  chafed  and  swore  and  said  he  didn't  want  to  go.  Of  course  he'd  much  rather  have  been  out  in  the  after-  noon-making  swords  from  branches,  collecting  leaves  and  rocks,  riding  his  bike  to  friends'  houses,  exploring  a  nearby  creek.  I  picked  him  up  at  school-a  big,  square  brick  fortress-with  his  papers  and  books  in  disarray.  I  often  had  to  send  him  back  upstairs  for  a  missing  book  while  I  sat  waiting  for  him  out  front.  Miss  Slattery's  two  windows  glittered  above.  I  hoped  that  she  wouldn't  appear  in  her  tower  and  see  me,  but  sometimes  she  did.  Then  a  chill  went  through  me,  and  I  pre-  tended  not  to  notice  her.  Eventually  Philip  came  down,  his  dark  eyes  and  hair  shining,  his  gait  childish  but  na-  scently  athletic  and  graceful.  His  out-  look  hadn't  been  entirely  ruined  by  his  scholastic  experience.  He  often  did  amusing  clay  sculptures,  and  with  col-  ored  felt  pens  he  drew  page  after  page  oflarge,  beautiful,  intricate  designs-  work  that  required  great  concentration  and  abstract  ability.  And  I  heard  him  laughing  out  loud  when  he  didget  to  play  with  friends  on  weekends.  The  tutoring  hour  varied,  but  it  was  always  before  dinner.  After  a  while  Eileen  probably  saw  that  I  had  enough  character  to  be  let  in  on  rainy  days  when  I  came  to  pick  Philip  up,  so  " b"  long  as  I  stood  in  the  tiny,  dim  foyer,  where  one  set  of  six  stairs  went  up  to  the  living  quarters  and  the  other  set  led  down  to  the  office  and  garage.  Janice  always  let  me  in.  She  said  hello  reluctantly  and  went  off  to  read.  Often  she  sat  and  read  upstairs,  not  far  from  me,  ina  big  chair  on  the  other  side  of  a  wrought-iron  railing  that  was  painted  white.  The  back  of  the  chair  faced  me.  I  noticed  at  my  eye  level  a  pile  of  books  on  the  living-room  floor  near  her  feet.  I  watched  her  pick  them  up  and  heard  her  turning  pages  rapid-  ly,  apparently  devouring  each  book.  I  heard  her  eating  something  out  of  a  cellophane  bag  or  crunching  big  bites  out  of  an  apple.  It  turned  out  that  she  was  reading  not  only  stuff  that  any  normal  child  reads  but  also  books  for  adolescents  and  adults.  One  time  when  I  returned  toward  the  end  of  Philip's  lesson,  a  strange,  small,  grownup-sounding  voice  was  scolding  somewhere  nearby.  I  spotted  Janice,  half  hidden  in  the  shadowy  shrubs  beside  the  house,  talking  to  an  imaginary  person.  Evidently  she  had  not  heard  me  pullinto  the  drive.  When  she  saw  me,  she  stopped  talk-  I'd  been  there  with  him  all  along,  comforted,  a  little,  by  understanding  what  to  do  When  there's  nothing  to  be  done-stood  there  briefly,  chilled,  overlooking  ing,  and  everything  was  silent.  She'd  been  playacting  and  babbling,  scowl-  ing,  pointing  a  finger  at  her  invisible  adversary.  HEN  summer  came,  Philip  had  to  go  to  Eileen's  an  hour  a  day  five  days  a  week,  in  order  to  be  ade-  quately  prepared  for  third  grade.  We  felt  the  money  draining  away,  but  we  survived.  I  didn't  want  to  make  him  go  there  on  his  beautiful  summer-va-  cation  days,  or  to  spend  more  hours  driving  and  waiting,  but  there  seemed  to  be  no  choice.  Most  of  the  time,  he  protested  about  going.  Sometimes  he  went  peacefully,  like  the  sheep  we  saw  grazing  in  a  sunlit  field  we  passed  each  .  He  had  to  review  all  of  the  second  grade  with  Eileen  that  summer.  Miss  Slattery  had  certainly  let  him  fall  by  like  rotten  fruit.  In  the  autumn  Philip  had  continu-  ing,  though  slightly  abating,  trouble  in  the  third  grade,  but  at  least  his  new  teacher  was  equitable,  decent,  and  compassionate.  He  didn't  like  school  any  better.  And  I  was  still  taking  him  to  the  tutor's.  In  my  narrow  rage  and  impotence,  I  felt  that  I  could  hardly  see  anything  in  the  world  around  Ei-  leen's  house.  She  still  stood  next  to  me  at  the  end  of  each  lesson  and  went  over  his  papers  in  detail.  The  hour  had  evolved  into  a  period  of  finishing  what  heshould  have  done  in  school.  At  least  he  wasn't  bringing  it  home  and  fighting  about  it.  While  we  went  over  his  work,  Philip  played  with  Janice.  Although  he  liked  her,  and  she  apparently  liked  him-she  always  ranout  to  play  with  him  after  his  lesson  and  often  touched  him  and  smiled  at  him-a  lot  of  the  time  she  haughtily  ruled  over  him,  telling  him  what  to  do,  half  laughing  at  him.  I  noticed  that  she  was  reading  &quot;Great  Expectations&quot;:  maybe  she  fan-  " b" cied  herself  Estella  and  him  Pip.  When  I  considered  Philip's  learning  problems  and  Janice's  brilliance,  her  attitude  toward  him  bothered  me.  How  peculiar  they  were-the  hefty  little  genius,  awkward  outdoors,  and  the  deft,  darting  boy  who  did  not  care  for  school.  Janice  could  seem  babyish,  like  a  child  of  three.  But  when  she  spoke  to  an  adult,  wondrous,  sophisti-  cated  sentences  came  out  of  her  mouth.  She  and  Philip  chased  each  other  and  laughed  in  the  front  yard.  Or  they  sat  together  on  a  red  metal  wagon,  push-  ing  themselves  along  with  their  feet.  The  ground  had  only  a  small  incline,  but  they  didn't  seem  to  mind.  Janice  probably  longed  for  her  mother-I  could  sense  both  her  anger  and  her  strong,  quiet  patience.  And  there  her  mother  was,only  a  few  yards  away,  just  downstairs,  tutoring-hour  after  hour,  even  into  the  evening,  when  otherchildren  came  for  lessons.  Little  by  little  I  realized  how  difficult  it  was  for  Eileen  to  have  this  very  bright  child.  She  had  to  keep  her  from  boredom,  and  from  being  made  fun  of  by  other  children.  It  must  have  been  hard  just  finding  material  to  keep  Janice's  thirst  for  books  and  her  imag-  ination  satisfied.  I  pictured  her  in  the  future,  attending  Radcliffe-a  large,  shy,  self-conscious  girl,  summe  cum  laude,  all  messed  up  with  boys.  &quot;I  only  wish  we  had  a  child  with  her  prob-  lems,&quot;  Liza  said  when  I  told  her  about  it  later.  &quot;I  don't,&quot;  I  said.  And  what  of  Mr.  Gogarty?  There  was  one-a  C.P.A.,  who  came  home  late  each  day.  Eileen  told  me  he  was  terribly  strict  about  Janice's  getting  all  A's  in  every  single  scrap  of  school-  work.  I  hardly  ever  saw  him.  He  was  little  and  swarthy,  with  ablack  mus-  tache,  and  had  a  serious,  scowling  look.  Once  when  Eileen  was  talking  to  me  in  the  foyer  atsix  o'clock,  he  burst  in  dressed  in  a  sombre  suit  and  almost  pushed  me  out  of  the  doorway  as  he  rushed  by  with  a  small  grunt  of  salutation.  He  bolted  up  the  little  flight  of  stairs  and  disappeared.  Eileen  fidgeted  and  hurried  her  final  com-  ments  about  Philip's  papers.  I  wished  then  that  I  could  say  something  to  help  her.  Her  slightly  chapped  red  lips  and  white  teeth  were  close  to  me,  her  dark-brown  eyes  blurry  and  vague  behind  glasses.  For  an  instant,  in  a  dreamy,  unreal  way,  I  imagined  kiss-  ing  her.  This  notion  almost  made  me  shudder.  I  wasn't  interested  in  her  -she  wasn't  attractive  to  me,  and  we  had  nothing  in  common  except  Philip's  problem.  Sometimes  Eileenspoke  almost  fondly  of  Philip,  butshe  spoke  wearily,  too.  Although  he  was  doing  better  work  for  her,  he  concentrated  for  only  short  periods  of  time,  and  she  had  to  stay  right  with  him.  Eileen  let  me  know  indirectly  that  she  had  to  tutor  because  she  needed  the  money.  She  kept  talking  about  car  re-  pairs  and,  now  that  it  was  winter,  the  heating-oil  bill.  Her  car  was  old  and  rusted,  and  her  house  was  as  cold  as  a  " b"40  tomb.  I  wondered  about  it-her  hus-  band,  after  all,  was  a  senior  accountant  with  a  very  good  firm.  Liza  suggested  to  me  that  they  were  probably  econo-  mizing  severely-saving  every  penny  to  send  Janice  to  some  fine  Catho-  lic  girls'  college  when  she  turned  six-  teen.  After  a  while  I  sensed  that  Eileen  was  longing  for  something.  I  thought  of  her  husband,  of  her  alone  in  the  house  all  day,  of  her  hours  bent  over  the  desk  downstairs,  tutoring.  I  HAD  been  going  there  for  so  long  that  in  the  spring,  because  of  my  own  extensive,  reflective  solitude  while  sitting  in  the  car  or  waiting  on  the  concrete  step,  I  began  to  accept  the  whole  strange  predicament.  And  then  I  began  to  see  what  was  right  in  front  of  me.  Day  by  day,  tiny,  complicated  red-and-yellow  buds  opened  on  the  big  tree  on  Eileen's  front  lawn.  It  wasn't  an  oak  at  all,  as  I'd  thought  when  blind,  but  a  shapely  silver  maple.  It  had  a  rough,  corrugated  trunk,  and  bluish-green  lichen  clinging  to  it.  Vel-  vet-green  daffodil  spikes  thrust  up  through  dead  brown  leaves  along  the  base  of  the  house.  Then  clustered  white  and  magenta  hyacinths  bloomed  there.  An  unruly  forsythia  burst  forth  wildly  yellow.  The  grass  grew  dark  and  thick,  and  the  sun  rose  higher.  A  dogwood  opened  in  a  mass  of  white,  rusted  blossoms.  Surrounded  by  this  beauty,  this  en-  ergy,  this  explosion  of  life,  Philip  sat  for  one  hour  twice  a  week  in  the  depths  of  the  house  with  textbooks,  a  math  workbook,  spelling  lists,  gram-  mar  papers.  Summer  came.  White-veined  leaves  expanded  and  tasselled  the  tree,  shim-  mered  in  the  wind.  I  waited  on  the  concrete  step.  Sometimes  Janice  passed  me  on  the  way  inor  out  and  said  hello  shyly.  I  thought  about  her  while  I  watched  black  ants  marching  by.  She  seemed  much  less  imperious  with  Philip  now.  Gradually,  I  put  the  thing  in  perspective:  she  was  only  a  little  child-and  inthese  circumstances  she  was  perhaps  avictim  of  great  intelli-  gence  and  its  isolating  effects.  Huge  white  clouds  billowed  in  a  dark-blue  sky.  Caterpillars  swayed  in  midair  on  their  long,  nearly  invisible  threads.  Sometimes  it  rained  and  the  earth  smelled  beautiful.  Mosquitoes  triedto  bite  my  legs.  Spiders  ran.  Swallows  with  their  check-mark  wings  darted  on  and  off  the  telephone  lines.  The  porch  ceiling  was  spotted  with  inky  mildew.  I  scrutinized  it  and     wondered,  What  does  Eileen  want?  Why,  to  get  away  from  this  narrow,  empty  life,  of  course.  To  escape.  Once,  the  garbage  pail  had  been  dumped  by  a  dog,  and  there  were  wet  used  tea  bags  strewn  about.  Eileen,  brooding,  sip-  ping  cups  of  tea,  I  thought.  For  a  couple  of  weeks  the  olive,  green  house  across  the  street  was  slowly  painted  white  by  bare-chested  young  men  who  played  rock  music  on  a  transistor  radio.  An  ice-cream  truck  went  by,  jingling  a  bell.  Children  who  didn't  see  me  rode  past  on  bikes,  laughing  and  swearing  at  one  another.  And  Philip  read  and  wrote,  and  Eileen  and  I  talked  about  his  work.  T  was  Halloween.  All  the  dead  leaves  were  down,  rustling  on  the  ground.  What  was  Janice  going  to  be  this  night?  A  courtly  medieval  lady  with  a  tall,  conical  maroon  hat  and  veil.  She  had  writtena  poem  about  a  princess  and  astable  boy,  Eileen  told  me,  and  entered  it  in  a  school  contest.  It  won  first  prize.  ALARGE  multicoloredturkey  cut  out  of  paper  was  tacked  on  Ei-  leen's  front  door.  The  days  were  shorter.  The  wind  blew  in  big,  rock-  ing  swells,  and  the  branches  of  the  silver  maple  swayed  and  creaked.  Here  and  there  were  white  wafers  of  ice  in  the  drive.  Janice  let  me  into  the  foyer.  She  did  not  speak,  and  dis-  appeared.  I  stood  still,  a  tall  icicle.  When  no  one  was  there,  once,  I  peeked  upstairs.  There  were  no  lights  on  in  the  living  room,  which  held  austere  modern  furni-  ture;  it  was  like  a  department-store  dis-  play.  White  paper  roses  sat  in  glass  vases.  The  room  was  cold  and  silent.  CHRISTMAS  cards  were  strung  along  the  wrought-iron  rail-  ing.  They  seemed  reas-  suring  in  a  homely,  nostalgic  way.  A  child's  catechism  lay  near  me  on  the  upper  floor.  In  the  foyer,  Eileen  was  saying  to  me,  &quot;His  work  is  not  always  consistent,  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  but  when  he  tries,  it's  very  good.  He  still  needs  some  help  about  distrac-  tion.  But  he's  complet-  ing  a  lot  more  work  by  himself.&quot;  She  paused,  then  said,  &quot;I  won't  be  tutoring  past  next  spring.  Philip  can  probably  get  by  without  a  tutor  by  then.&quot;&quot;  She  smiled.  I  couldn't  help  smiling,  too.  Although  I  was  now  selling  more  stained  glass,  finishing  with  a  tutor  certainly  would  ease  our  financial  situation.  And  Philip  was  beginning  to  let  Liza  help  him  work  at  home  with  less  resis-  tance,  too.  Eileen  blushed  and  told  me  softly  that  she  was  going  to  have  a  baby  in  the  summer.  She  said  that  she  and  her  husband  had  prayed  for  years  for  a  second  child  and  then  given  up  hope.  And  now  it  was  going  to  come  true.  I  thought,  She's  nev-  er  going  to  escape.  Can  this  be  her  way  of  trying?  But  she's  not  young.  And  what  if  she  has  another  genius?  Yet  I  could  see  her  joy,  and  I  felt  happy  for  her.  &quot;How  lovely,&quot;  I  said.  I  was  suddenly  aware  of  a  figure  standing  in  shadows  at  thetop  of  the  living-room  stairs.  Ah,  Mr.  Gogarty.  &quot;Eileen,&quot;  he  saidin  a  distant,  chilly,  commanding  voice.  &quot;Dinner  is  getting  cold.&quot;  NE  day  in  the  dead  of  winter  I  was  outside,  waiting  for  Philip.  I  had  already  stood  in  the  foyer  for  a  while.  Janice,  wearing  a  red  dress,  lugging  a  copy  of  \xe2\x80\x9c\xc3\xa9one  with  the  Wind,&quot;  had  let  me  in.  She  was  read-  ing  it  so  intently  that  she  barely  looked  at  me.  Then  I'd  gone  back  out  and  glanced  downstairs  on  my  way  past  the  house.  Eileen  was  sitting  right  next  to  Philip.  She  looked  very  white  and  tired.  Upstairs,  Janice  sat  read-  ing.  Eileen  had  recently  told  me  that  Janice  couldn't  wait  for  the  baby  to  come.  But  wouldn't  she  then  be  longing  for  her  mother  more  than  ever?  I  sat  in  the  car.  It  was  almost  twi-  light.  The  ground  was  covered  with  snow.  Before  me,  a  dense  legion  of  trees  crowded  all  the  way  to  the  hori-  zon.  Their  black  branches  crossed  and  connected.  In  the  interstices  a  huge  sun  was  going  down.  The  snow,  the  deep-violet  air,  the  black  network  of  trees,  the  round  red  sun  blazed.  I  thought  of  Philip  down  in  the  little  room,  sitting  still  and  silent.  Ah,  but  it's  necessary,  I  told  myself.  After  all,  who  escapes  completely?  The  sun  had  just  sunk  below  the  horizon.  Ahead  of  me,  the  black  tangle  of  trees  was  lighted  by  a  vast,  invisible  fire.  I  imagined  a  faraway  land  where  the  sun  was  just  rising.  High  up  on  a  cold,  barren  plain,  a  band  of  little  men  rode  in  a  tight  circle,  breaking  in  beautiful  wild  horses.  After  a  long  while  Eileen's  front  door  opened.  Philip  raced  toward  me  in  deep  shadows.  In  the  drive,  ice  wafers  broke  beneath  his  feet.  The  last  light  caught  his  body,  and  his  eyes  flashed.  He  slipped  into  the  car.  &quot;Dad!&quot;  He  spoke  in  an  exultant  rush.  &quot;She  saysthat  when  it's  spring  I'll  never  have  to  come  back  here  again.&quot;  &quot;Wonderful,&quot;  I  said,  touching  his  shoulder,  holding  on  to  him  for  a  mo-  ment.  I  felt  his  body  slacken  with  re-  lief.  I  knew  he  would  never  care  about  academic  thickets.  But  I  also  knew  he'd  eventually  get  through  them.  I  backed  out  of  the  drive  to  the  street  and  looked  at  the  blackening  house,  the  dimly  lighted,  covered  step.  Something  bright  caught  my  eye.  It  was  Janice's  red  dress.  She  was  stand-  ing  in  the  foyer,  motionless  behind  the  large  glass  of  the  storm  door,  holding  her  thick  book  close  to  her  chest.  As  we  drove  past,  she  raised  her  right  arm  as  if  she  were  about  to  wave.  Instead,  she  brought  her  hand  quickly  to  her  lips,  then  swept  it  toward  the  dark. "