BLUEBEARD  &amp;C  EVER  open  that  door,&quot;  N  Bluebeard  told  me,  and  I,  who  knew  his  history,  nod-  ded.  In  truth  I  had  a  very  good  idea  of  what  lay  on  the  other  side  of  the  door  and  no  interest  at  all  in  opening  it.  Bluebeard  was  then  in  his  forty-  fifth  year,  quite  vigorous,  the  malaise  that  later  claimed  him-indeed  en-  feebled  him-not  yet  in  evidence.  When  he  had  first  attempted  to  put  forward  his  suit,  my  father,  who  knew  him  slightly  (they  were  both  clients  of  Dreyer,  the  American  art  dealer),  re-  fused  him  admittance,  saying  only,  &quot;Not,  I  think,  a  good  idea.&quot;  Bluebeard  sent  my  father  a  small  Poussin  watercolor,  a  study  for  the  &quot;Death  of  Phocion;&quot;  me  he  sent,  with  astonish,  ing  boldness,  a  black  satin  remarque  nightgown.  Events  progressed.  My  father  could  not  bring  himself  to  part  with  the  Poussin,  and  in  very  short  order  Blue-  beard  was  a  fixture  in  our  sitting  room,  never  without  some  lavish  gift  -a  pair  of  gold  cruets  attributed  to  Cellini,  a  cut-pile  Aubusson  fire-ex-  tinguisher  cover.  I  admit  I  found  him  very  attractive  despite  his  age  and  his  nose,  the  latter  a  black  rocklike  object  threaded  with  veins  of  silver,  a  feature  I  had  never  before  seen  adorning  a  human  countenance.  The  sheer  energy  of  the  man  carried  all  before  it,  and  he  was  as  well  most  thoughtful.  &quot;The  history  of  architecture  is  the  history  of  the  struggle  for  light,&quot;  he  said  one  day.  I  have  latterly  seen  this  remark  attributed  to  the  Swiss  Le  Corbusier,  but  it  was  first  uttered,  to  my  certain  knowledge,  in  our  sitting  room,  Blue-  beard  paging  through  a  volume  of  Palladio.  In  fine,  I  was  taken;  I  became  his  seventh  wife.  &quot;Have  you  tried  to  open  the  door?&quot;  he  asked  me,  in  the  twelfth  month  of  our  (to  that  point)  happy  mar-  riage.  I  told  him  I  had  not,  that  I  was  not  at  all  cu-  rious  by  nature  and  was  furthermore  obedient  to  the  valid  proscriptions  my  hus-  band  might  choose  to  im-  pose  vis-a-vis  the  gover-  nance  of  the  household.  This  seemed  to  irritate  him.  &quot;I'll  know,  you  know,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;  If  you  try.&quot;  The  silver  threads  in  his  black  nose  pulsated,  light  from  the  chande-  lier  bouncing  from  them.  He  had  at  that  time  a  project  in  view,  a  project  with  which  I  was  fully  in  sympathy:  the  restoration  of  the  south  wing  of  the  castle,  bastardized  in  the  eighteenth  century  by  busybodies  who  had  over-  laid  its  Georgian  pristinity  with  Ba-  roque  rickrack  in  the  manner  of  Van-  brugh  and  Hawksmoor.  Striding  here  and  there  in  his  big  496e646961-rubber  boots,  cursing  the  trembling  masons  on  the  scaffolding  and  the  sweating  carpenters  on  the  ground,  he  was  all  in  all  a  fine  figure  of  a  man-a  thing  I  have  never  forgotten.  I  spent  my  days  poring  over  motor-  car  catalogues  (the  year  was  1910).  Karl  Benz  and  Gottlieb  Daimler  had  produced  machines  capable  of  great  speed  and  dash  and  I  longed  to  have  one,  just  a  little  one,  but  could  not  bring  myself  to  ask  my  husband  (my  ever-generous  husband)  for  so  consid-  erable  a  gift.  Where  did  I  want  to  go,  my  husband  would  ask,  and  I  would  be  forced  to  admit  that  going  somewhere  was  a  conception  alien  to  our  rich,  full  life  at  the  castle,  only  forty  kilometres  from  [REDACTED],  to  which  I  was  allowed  regular  visits.  My  husband's  views  on  marriage-old-fashioned  if  you  will-  were  not  such  as  to  encourage  promis-  cuous  wanting.  If  I  could  have  presented  the  Daimler  phaeton  as  a  toy,  something  to  tootle  about  the  grounds  in,  something  that  enabled  33  him  to  laugh  at  my  inadequacies  as  a  pilot  of  the  machine  (decimation  of  the  rosebushes),  then  he  might  have,  with  a  toss  of  his  full,  rich  head  of  hair,  acceded  to  my  wish.  But  I  was  not  that  intelligent.  \xc2\xabWill  you  never  attempt  the  door?&quot;  he  asked  one  morning  over  coffee  in  the  sunroom.  He  had  just  returned  from  a  journey-he  always  returned  suddenly,  unexpectedly,  a  day  or  two  before  he  had  planned  to  do  so-and  had  brought  me  a  Buen  Retiro  white  biscuit  clock  two  metres  high.  Ire-  peated  what  I  had  told  him  previously:  that  I  had  no  interest  in  the  door  or  what  lay  behind  it,  and  that  I  would  gladly  return  the  silver  key  he  had  given  me  if  his  mind  would  be  eased  thereby.  &quot;No,  no,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;keep  the  key,  you  must  have  the  key.&quot;  He  thought  for  a  moment.  &quot;You  are  a  peculiar  woman,&quot;  he  said.  I  did  not  know  what  he  meant  by  this  remark  and  I  fear  I  did  not  take  it  kindly,  but  I  had  no  time  to  protest  orplead  my  ordinariness,  for  he  abruptly  left  the  room,  slamming  the  door  behind  him.  I  knew  I  had  angered  him  in  some  way  but  I  could  not  for  the  life  of  me  understand  precisely  how  I  had  erred.  Did  he  went  me  to  open  the  door?  To  discover,  in  the  room  behind  the  door,  hanging  on  hooks,  the  beautifully  dressed  carcasses  of  my  six  predeces-  sors?  But  what  if,  contrary  to  in-  formed  opinion,  the  beautifully  dressed  carcasses  of  my  six  predecessors  were  not  behind  the  door?  What  was?  At  that  moment  I  became  curious,  and  at    " b"34  the  same  time,  one  part  of  my  brain  contesting  another,  I  contrived  to  lose  the  key,  in  the  vicinity  of  the  gazebo.  I  had  trusted  my  husband  to  harbor  behind  the  door  nothing  more  than  rotting  flesh,  but  now  that  the  worm  of  doubt  had  inched  its  way  into  my  consciousness  I  was  a  different  person,  as  it  were.  On  my  hands  and  knees  on  the  brilliant  green  lawn  behind  the  gazebo  I  searched  for  the  key;  looking  up  I  saw,  in  a  tower  window,  that  great  black  nose,  with  its  veins  of  sil-  ver,  watching  me.  My  hands  moved  nervously  over  the  thick  grass  and  only  the  thought  of  the  three  duplicate  keys  I  had  had  made  by  the  locksmith  in  the  village,  a  M.  Necker,  consoled  me.  What  was  behind  the  door?  Whenever  I  placed  my  hands  on  it  the  thick  carved  oak  gave  off  a  slight  chill  (although  this  may  have  been  the  result  of  an  inflamed  imagination).  Exhausted,  I  gave  up  the  search;  Bluebeard  now  knew  that  I  had  lost  something  and  could  readily  surmise  what  it  was-advantage  to  me,  in  a  sense.  At  dusk,  from  a  tower  window,  I  saw  him  trolling  in  the  grass  with  a  horseshoe  magnet  dangling  from  a  string.  I  had  taken  care  that  the  duplicate  keys  manufactured  for  me  by  M.  Necker  had  also  been  coated  with  sil-  ver,  were  in  every  way  exact  replicas  of  the  original,  and  could  with  confi-  dence  present  one  on  demand  if  my  hus-  band  required  it.  But  if  he  had  been  successful  in  finding  the  one  I  had  lost  but  concealed  that  fact  (and  conceal-  ment  was  the  very  essence  of  his  na-  ture),  and  I  presented  one  of  the  du-  plicates  as  the  original  when  the  original  lay  in  his  pocket,  this  would  constitute  proof  that  I  had  reproduced  the  key,  a  clear  breach  of  trust.  I  could,  of  course,  simply  maintain  that  I  had  in  fact  lost  it-this  had  the  virtue  of  being  true-meanwhile  concealing  from  him  the  existence  of  the  counter-  feits.  This  seemed  the  better  course.  He  sat  that  night  at  the  dining  table  slicing  a  goose  with  prune  and  foie-  gras  stuffing  (taking  the  best  portions  for  himself,  I  observed)  and  said  with-  out  preamble,  &quot;Where  do  you  meet  your  lover,  Doroteo  Arango?&quot;  Doroteo  Arango,  the  Mexican  rev-  olutionary  leader  known  to  the  world  as  Pancho  Villa,  was  indeed  in  [REDACTED]  at  that  moment,  raising  funds  for  his  sa-  cred  and  just  cause,  but  I  hadhad  little  contact  with  him  and  was  certainly  not  yet  his  lover  although  he  had   pressed  my  breasts  and  tried  to  insinu-  ate  his  hand  underneath  my  skirt  at  the  meeting  of  23  July  at  my  aunt  Th\xc3\xa9r\xc3\xa9se  Perrault's  house  in  the  Six-  teenth  at  which  he  had  spoken  so  elo-  quently.  The  strange  Mexican  spirit  tequila  had  been  served,  golden  in  brandy  snifters.  I  had  not  taken  excep-  tion  to  his  behavior,  assuming  that  all  Mexican  revolutionary  leaders  be-  haved  in  this  way,  but  he  had  persisted  in  sending  me,  hand-delivered  by  hard-riding  vaqueros  in  Panhards,  bottles  of  the  pernicious  liquor,  one  of  which  my  husband  was  now  waving  in  my  face.  I  told  him  I  had  purchased  a  few      bottles  to  assist  the  cause,  much  as  one  might  buy  paper  flowers  from  school-  children,  and  that  Arango  was  a  well-  known  celibate  with  a  special  devotion  to  St.  Erasmus  of  Delft,  the  castrate.  &quot;You  gave  him  my  machine  gun,&quot;  Bluebeard  said.  This  was  true;  the  Maxim  gun  that  usually  rested  in  a  dusty  corner  of  the  castle's  vast  attic  had  been  transferred,  under  cover  of  night,  to  one  of  the  Panhards  not  long  before.  I  had  a  truly  frightful  time  wrestling  the  thing  down  the  winding  stairs.  &quot;A  loan  only,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;You  weren't  using  it  and  he  is  pledged  to  rid  [REDACTED]  of  Diaz'  vile  and  corrupt  administration  by  spring  at  the  latest.&quot;  My  husband  had  no  love  for  the  Diaz  regime-held,  in  fact,  a  portfo-  lio  of  Mexican  railway  bonds  of  the  utmost  worthlessness.  &quot;Well,&quot;  he  growled,  &quot;next  time,  ask  me  first.&quot;  This  was  the  end  of  the  matter,  but  I  could  see  that  his  trust  in  me,  not  absolute  in  the  best  of  seasons,  was  fraying.  My  involvement  with  P\xc3\xa9re  Redon,  the  castle's  chaplain,  was  then,  I  blush  to  confess,  at  its  fiery  height.  The  handsome  young  priest,  with  his  au-  burn  locks  and  long,  straight,  white  nose  .  .  .  It  was  to  him  that  I  had  en-  trusted  the  three  duplicate  keys  to  the  locked  door  and  the  eleven  additional  " b"duplicate  keys  that  I  had  caused  to  be  made  by  the  village's  second  locksmith,  a  M.  Becque.  Redon  had  hid-  den  one  keybehind  each  of  the  Bronzino  plaques  marking  the  chapel's  fourteen  Sta-  tions  of  the  Cross,  and  since  the  chapel  was  visited  by  my  husband  only  at  Christmas  and  Easter  and  on  his  own  name  day,  I  felt  them  safe  there.  Still,  the  cache  of  my  letters  that  Redon  kept  in  a  small  crypt  carved  out  of  the  reverse  side  of  the  altartable  worried  me,  even  though  he  replastered  the  open-  ing  most  skillfully  each  time  he  added  a  letter.  The  nun's  habit  that  I  wore  during  the  midnight  Sabbats  or-  ganized  by  the  notori-  ous  Bishop  of  Troyes,  in  which  we,  Redon  and  I,  participated  (my  shame  and  my  delight,  my  husband  drunk  and  dreaming  all  the  while),  hung  chastely  in  the  same  closet  that  held  Constantin's  Mass  vest-  ments-cassock  and  chasuble,  alb  and  stole.  The  ring  Constantin  had  given  me,  unholy  yet  cherished  sym-  bol  of  our  love,  remained  in  its  tiny  velvet  casket  on  the  altar  itself,  with-  in  the  tabernacle,  stuffed  behind  pyx,  chalice,  and  ciborium.  The  chapel  was  in  the  truest  sense  a  sanctuary,  all  thanks  to  a  living  and  merciful  God.  \xe2\x80\x9cYOU  must  open  the  door,&quot;  Blue-  beard  said  to  me  one  afternoon  at  croquet-I  had  justhithis  ball  off  into  the  shrubbery-&quot;even  though  I  forbid  it.&quot;  What  was  I  to  make  of  this  conundrum?  &quot;Dear  husband,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;I  cannot  imagineopening  the  door  against  your  wishes.  Why  then  do  you  say  I  must  open  it?&quot;  &quot;I  change  the  exhibit  from  time  to  time,&quot;  he  said,  grimacing.  &quot;Youmay  not  find,  behind  the  door,  what  you  expect.  Furthermore,  if  you  are  to  continue  as  my  wife,  you  must  occasionally  be  strong  enough  to  go  against  my  wishes,  for  my  own  good.  Even  the  bluest  beard  amongst  us,  even  the  blackest  nose,  needs  on  occa-  sion  the  correction  of  connubial  give-  and-take.&quot;  And  he  hung  his  head  like  a  lyc\xc3\xa9e  boy.  &quot;Very  well  then,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Give  me  the  key,  for  as  you  know  I  have  lost  mine.&quot;  He  withdrew  from  his  waistcoat  pocket  a  silver  key,  and,  leaving  the  game,  I  entered  the  castle  andwalked  up  the  grand  staircase  to  the  third  \xc3\xa9tage.  Before  I  could  reach  the  cursed  portal,  a  house  servant  flourishing  a  telegram  intercepted  me.  &quot;For  you,  Madame,&quot;  she  said,  all  rosy  and  out  of  breath  from  running.  The  message  read  &quot;930177  1886445  88156031  04344979&quot;  and  was  signed  &quot;EVER-  LAST.&quot;  Coded  of  course,  and  the  codebook  far  from  me  at  this  moment,  recorded  on  fragile  cigarette  papers  tightly  rolled  and  concealed  within  the  handlebars  of  my  favorite  yellow  bicycle,  &quot;A&quot;  to  &quot;M&quot;  in  the  left  handlebar,  &quot;N&quot;  to  &quot;Z&quot;  in  the  right  handlebar,  in  the  bicycle  shed.  &quot;Ever-  last&quot;  was  M.  Gr\xc3\xa9vy,  the  Finance  Minister.  What  calamity  was  he  an-  nouncing,  and  was  he  telling  me  to  buy  or  sell?  My  entire  fortune,  as  distinct  from  my  husband's,  rested  upon  the  Bourse;  Everlast's  timely  in-  formation,  which  had  increased  the  value  of  my  holdings  in  most  satisfac-  tory  fashion,  was  vital  to  its  continued  existence.  I'm  finished,  I  thought;  I'll  wear  rags  and  become  secretary  to  a  cat-seller.  I  longed  to  rush  to  the  bicy-  cle  shed,  yet  my  intense  curiosity  about  the  contents  of  the  prohibited  chamber  exerted  the  stronger  sway.  I  turned  the  key  in  the  lock  and  plunged  through  the  door.  In  the  room,  hanging  on  hooks,  gleaming  in  decay  and  wearing  Coco  Chanel  gowns,  seven  zebras.  My  hus-  band  appeared  at  my  side.  &quot;Jolly,  don't  you  think?&quot;  he  said,  and  I  said,  &quot;Yes,  jolly,&quot;  fainting  with  rage  and  disap-  pointment.  ... "