 DAUGHTERS  T  is  the  evening  before  a  wedding  in  November,  1971.  David,  his  son-in-law,  Trelawny,  and  his  son-in-law  to  be,  Richard,  are  having  brandy  and  cigars  in  the  Drummer  Boy  lounge  of  the  Hotel  Fort  Garry,  in  Winnipeg.  They  sit  at  a  small,  highly  polished  table.  David  is  thinking  he  will  have  fifteen  dollars  left  if  they  don't  have  another  round  of  drinks.  The  brandy  and  cigars  are  Trelawny's  idea.  That  is  his  name:  Trelawny.  His  father  taught  acourse  in  Byron.  David  had  arrived  from  Tepic  in  corduroy  trousers  and  a  baggy  sports  jacket.  Teddy,  his  former  mother-in-  law,  had  given  him  a  hundred  dollars  for  a  proper  outfit.  On  his  return  to  the  hotel  in  his  new  powder-blue  suit  he  shookhands  with  Prime  Minister  Trudeau,  who  was  greeting  people  in  a  passageway.  Later,  he  had  lunch  with  the  three  daughters:  Patricia;  the  bride,  Bonnie;  and  Cindy.  Cindy  is  not  talking  to  David.  A  couple  of  years  before,  Bonnie  had  asked  David  to  leave  her  house  in  Albuquerque.  Bonnie's  housemate,  Vickie,  had  complained  that  having  a  father  around,  even  one  with  a  motor-  cycle,  interfered  with  her  social  life.  David  doesn't  mind  that  he  is  not  paying  for  Bonnie's  wedding.  On  the  other  hand,  he  resents  that  no  one  has  asked  his  permission.  He  has  only  met  Richard  that  morning.  Richard  has  red  hair  and  is  a  lot  bigger  than  David.  Lucy,  David's  former  wife  and  Bonnie's  mother,  does  not  like  Rich-  ard,  but  she  never  approves  of  any-  thing  connected  with  Bonnie.  Teddy  likes  Richard,  but  this  is  a  way  of  shoring  up  Bonnie  against  Lucy.  David  wishes  Bonnie  had  asked  him  what  he  thought  of  Richard.  He  wishes  Richard  had  asked  him  for  Bonnie's  hand.  It  would  have  been  formality  only.  He  could  not  ask  Rich-  ard  how  he  planned  to  support  a  wife  any  more  than  he  had  asked  this  of  Trelawny  before  he  married  Patricia.  David  does  not  have  the  nerve  to  ask  if  another  can  do  what  he  has  never  done  himself.  At  least  Trelawny  asked  David  if  he  could  marry  Patricia.  That  was  in  1966,  when  Trelawny  was  on  his  way  to  [REDACTED].  David,  too,  had  been  in  uniform  when  he  proposed  to  Lucy.  Stanley  is  not  in  Winnipeg  for  the  wedding.  He  is  in  a  rest  home  in  Milford,  [REDACTED].  For  their  an-  niversary  in  June,  he  bought  Rolls-  Royces  for  himself  andTeddy.  After  Teddy  returned  them,  he  assaulted  an  elevator  man  in  their  building.  Lucy,  David,  and  Teddy  share  a  suite  in  the  Fort  Garry.  Teddy  is  in  one  bedroom.  David  and  Lucy  are  in  the  other.  No  current  flows  between  David  and  Lucy.  Trelawny  is  kidding  Richard,  tell-  ing  him  not  to  be  nervous.  Richard  and  Bonnie  have  been  living  together  for  a  year.  &quot;I  was  so  surprised  when  Bonnie  said  she'd  come  to  [REDACTED],&quot;  Richard  says.  &quot;I  was  scared  to  tell  her  I  was  a  deserter.  I  said  goodbye  and  she  said  why-she'd  come  too.&quot;  &quot;I  wasn't  nervous,&quot;  David  says.  &quot;How  old  were  you&quot;?&quot;  Trelawny  asks.  &quot;T  wenty-four.&quot;  &quot;Why  did  you  get  married?&quot;  Rich-  ard  asks.  &quot;Because  I  was  scared,&quot;  David  re-  plies.  AVID  loved  Teddy.  She  was  will-  ful  and  naive,  because  she  never  had  to  earn  a  living,  was  either  brave  or  stubborn,  had  a  green  thumb,  and  was  talented  in  a  baffled  way  David  understood.  Teddy  died  in  Lucy's  arms.  David  is  knocking  down  walls  to  convert  the  daughters'  floor,  three  bed-  Because  of  the  disguise,  Lucy's  father,  Stanley,  had  swallowed  David's  assur-  ance  that  a  painter  could  make  a  liv-  ing.  David  knows  Trelawny  will  never  make  a  living.     MAY  26,  1986  rooms  and  two  baths,  into  a  separate  apartment.  Patricia  is  living  in  the  rubble,  in  the  back  room  where  Isa-  belle  once  slept.  Isabelle  Lopez  is  on  Riverside  Drive  taking  care  of  Lucy  and  her  new  husband,  Arthur.  T're-  lawny  has  left  Patricia  for  an  eigh-  teen-year-old  team  swimmer.  When  the  telephone  rings  Patricia  thinks  it  is  Trelawny  calling  from  [REDACTED]  to  ask  her  to  come  back.  Sit-  ting  on  David  and  Elizabeth's  bed  at  1  a.m.,  she  tells  them  how  Trelawny  put  a  canoe  and  a  twelve-hundred-dol-  lar  hi-fi  on  their  Master  Charge.  &quot;Did  he  take  the  canoe  when  he  left?&quot;  David  asks.  &quot;I  made  him  send  it  back,&quot;  Patricia  replies.  &quot;Sounds  to  me  you're  well  rid  of  him,&quot;  Elizabeth  remarks.  Elizabeth  is  David's  new  wife.  This  is  her  first  comment  on  Trelawny.  Elizabeth  is  British,  and  circumspect.  She  has  met  Trelawny  once,  when  he  came  East  to  attend  Stanley's  funeral,  the  year  be-  fore  Teddy's.  Trelawny  and  Patricia  arrived  early  in  the  morning  with  two  six-packs  of  Coors.  Trelawny  drank  eight  cans  before  lunch.  &quot;What  happened  just  before  he  left?&quot;  Elizabeth  asks.  Patricia  can't  remember.  She  met  Trelawny  at  the  University  of  43616e616461Carolina  when  they  performed  in  &quot;Girl  Crazy.&quot;  She  remembers  her  ne-  glect  of  Trelawny  after  her  promotion  to  branch  manager,  an  art  professor's  praise  of  Trelawny,  and  Trelawny's  mother's  disappointment  at  the  news  that  they  had  split.  Patricia  is  going  to  use  some  of  the  money  Stanley  left  her  to  take  courses  until  she  has  pulled  herself  together.  While  helping  paint  the  new  apart-  ment's  ceiling,  Patricia  remembers  that  just  before  Trelawny  left  she  had  criticized  him  for  not  doing  the  laun-  dry.  &quot;Was  he  doing  the  cooking?&quot;  David  asks.  &quot;I  was  too  tired  to  do  the  laundry,&quot;  Patricia  says.  &quot;He  wasn't  working  anyway.&quot;  &quot;Sounds  like  you  wanted  to  get  rid  of  him,&quot;  David  says.  &quot;You  don't  want  Trelawny,&quot;  Eliz-  abeth  says.  &quot;You  want  not  to  be  alone.&quot;  THE  next  year,  Cindy  arrives  from  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  with  her  dog,  Hobart,  a  St.  Bernard.  When  she  called,  David  had  asked  her  about  her  Datsun  pickup.  Cindy  said  that  her  friend  Clark  had  prom-  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  isedto  sell  it  and  send  her  the  money.  &quot;I  think  you  ought  to  drive  it  East,&quot;  David  said.  The  previous  July,  after  leaving  Pa-  tricia  in  [REDACTED],  David  and  Elizabeth  had  visited  Cindy  and  Clark  in  their  bungalow  in  [REDACTED].  One  missing  windowpane  was  stopped  with  card-  board.  Cindy  was  paying  the  rent  out  of  the  money  Stanley  had  left  her.  The  basement  was  full  of  cartons  of  old  78  records  and  books  for  their  second-  hand  store.  David,  painting  in  a  back  room  of  his  brownstone  on  West  Seventy-fifth  Street,  thinks  of  Cindy  in  the  motel  room  at  the  [REDACTED]  City  airport,  a  fourteen-year-old  kid  all  alone  in  a  strange  city.  Over  and  over  again,  David  sees  their  parting,  Cindy  smil-  ing  and  telling  him  she  will  be  fine.  David  left  her  alone  in  order  to  hurry  back  to  Cuernavaca  to  see  Fern,  a  twenty-five-year-old  nurse  who  was  driving  him  crazy.  Cindy  is  fat,  but  David,  painting  leaves,  remembers  a  small  person  on  his  lap  in  Bluebell  Dr.  Dentons.  In  this  scene  he  is  singing  &quot;T  humbelina.&quot;  Cindy  and  Hobart  live  in  the  front  room  on  the  second  floor.  The  third  floor,  severed,  is  rented  for  two  hun-  dred  and  fifty  dollars  a  month  to  Ga-  waine,  a  former  Benedictine  monk  who  does  publicity  for  a  racetrack.  Cindy  dislikes  David's  leaves,  hung  on  the  walls  of  her  room.  They  are  done  in  the  yellow  of  rheumy  eyes,  laced  with  red  unravelled  threads  of  besotted  cheeks,  and  blotched  with  the  purple  of  ancient  thighs;  a  remorseless  green  -vascular,  cellular-fills  what  re-  mains  of  the  canvas.  Elizabeth  complains  about  the  temp  jobs  she  takes  in  order  to  feed  David  and  Cindy,  and  about  Gaines  Meal  crumbling  underfoot.  Cindy  moves  in  with  Alex,  an  ac-  countant  she  met  in  Riverside  Park.  She  has  lost  twenty  pounds.  N  the  room  on  the  second  floor,  overlooking  the  street,  Hobart  whines  and  beats  the  floor  with  his  tail.  He  is  jealous  of  Karen,  Bonnie's  baby.  Cindy  is  babysitting  while  Bon-  nie  visits  her  lawyer  in  Rockefeller  Center.  It  is  January,  1979.  When  Bonnie  was  in  the  hospital  in  [REDACTED]  with  pelvic  inflammatory  disease  Rich-  ard  told  her  he  did  not  love  her.  Rich-  ard,  given  amnesty  by  President  Carter,  is  now  back  in  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED].  The  paintings  of  leavesare  gone.  Some  are  hanging  in  a  gallery  on  Madison  Avenue.  The  rest  have  been  sold,  for  almost  enough  to  pay  David's  debts.  Bonnie  and  Patricia  have  long  con-  versations  on  the  telephone.  Sometimes  Bonnie  talks  to  Kutsy,  the  wholesale  cigar  dealer  Patricia  married  eight  months  after  returning  to  [REDACTED].  Pa-  tricia  says  Richard  is  the  same  kind  of  bastard  as  Trelawny.  Kutsy,  who  watches  television  in  his  bathrobe,  says  Richard  married  Bonnie  because  he  didn't  have  any  friends  in  [REDACTED].  Trelawny  is  living  with  an  older  woman.  Clark  never  sent  Cindy  the  money  for  the  Datsun.  N  the  telephone,  Elizabeth  asks  about  the  noise  in  the  back-  ground.  She  is  visiting  her  mother  in  Tunbridge  Wells.   &quot;That's  Otis  practicing,&quot;  David  explains.  &quot;My  mother  would  like  a  picture  of  Karen.  She's  always  wanted  a  grand-  child.&quot;  &quot;Great-grandchild,&quot;  David  says.  \xc2\xabWho  is  Otis?&quot;  &quot;Bonnie's  friend.  He's  a  drummer.&quot;  &quot;He  isn't  living  there  too?&quot;  &quot;I  should  have  them  upstairs  soon,&quot;  David  replies.  &quot;Gawaine's  lease  is  up  in  six  weeks.&quot;  Elizabeth  says  she  may  be  back  by  Easter. "