"REMORSE  p  and  I  have  an  announcement  E  to  make.  Before  I  say  what  it  is,  I  would  like  to  thank  all  our  friends  and  acquaintances,  as  well  as  the  many  people  who  don't  even  know  us  but  have  taken  such  an  ongoing  interest  in  the  ups  and  downs  of  our  relationship  merely  on  the  basisof  hearsay  over  the  three  and  ahalf  years  that  Ed  and  I  have  been  together.  Although  we  have  often  felt  that  their  interest  in  us  was  prurient  and  even  somewhat  sinister,  we  also  couldn't  help  feeling  just  a  little  bit  flattered.  We  could  go  on  basking  in  this  attention,  knowing  that  people  are  awed  by  and,  in  certain  cases,  jealous  of  me  and  Ed  as  a  couple.  However,  there  comes  a  time  when  you  have  to  consult  your  own  conscience  and  do  what  you  believe  is  right,  no  matter  how  disillusioning  it  may  seem  to  your  friends,  and  no  matter  how  much  it  may  gratify  the  kind  of  people  who  are  always  waiting  to  see  you  knocked  off  your  pedestal.  Ed  and  I  want  to  acknowledge  that  we  have  made  some  mistakes  in  the  past.  These  were  inareas  which  it  would  be  pointless  to  go  into  atthis  late  date  and  in  the  brief  space  we  have  allotted  ourselves  for  this  public  state-  ment.  Suffice  it  to  say  that  Ed  has  behaved  abominably,  and  I  have  not  been  lily-white,  either.  However,  we  feel  that  it  doesn't  get  us  off  the  hook  just  to  sey  we've  made  mistakes  and  are  putting  them  behind  us  now.  Any-  one  could  do  that,  and  there  would  be  no  definite  way  to  ascertain  the  per-  son's  sincerity  or  commitment.  There-  fore,  we  have  come  to  the  following  decision:  The  best  way  to  affirm  that  we  have  put  our  mistakes  behind  us,  once  and  for  all,  is  to  announce  our  intention  to  comply  voluntarily  with  the  conditions  recently  set  down  by  the  Commissioner  of  Baseball.  We  would  like  to  emphasize  the  word  &quot;voluntarily,&quot;  because  there  is  absolutely  no  legal  basis  on  which  compulsory  compliance  can  be  exacted  from  us  under  the  terms  of  our  con-  tract  with  the  New  York  Mets.  This  contract  explicitly  defines  our  agree-  ment  thus:  We  shall  be  entitled  to  a  rain  check  in  the  event  of  anincom-  plete  game,  which  is  any  game  termi-  nated  before  five  full  innings  of  play,  or  four  and  a  half  if  the  home  team  is  ahead,  and  in  return  we  consent  to  the  use  of  our  image  incidental  to  any  live  or  recorded  video  display  of  the  game.  There  is  also,  on  our  part,  an  implied  consent  to  confiscation  of  any  thermos  jugs  we  bring  into  the  stadium.  How-  ever,  our  attorney  assures  us  that  no  court  or  arbitrator  would  interpret  this  as  a  blank  check  for  the  Commissioner  to  exploit  at  his  whim.  It  is  on  the  basis  of  choice,  then,  not  coercion,  that  we  have  settled  on  our  course  of  ac-  tion,  and  we  want  this  clearly  under-  stood  not  only  by  Commissioner  Peter  Ueberroth  but  by  people  who  would  like  to  see  us  forced  to  cringe  and  crawl.  As  for  the  details  of  our  compliance,  we  have  mutually  agreed  to  share  these  in  an  equitable  fashion.  I  will  be  in  charge  of  the  community  service.  As  part  of  that,  I  will  be  making  announcements  like  this  from  time  to  33  time,  thus  relieving  the  community  of  the  burden  of  prying  into  our  personal  lives  for  themselves  or  trying  to  find  out  by  bothering  the  Mets'  publicity  office.  I  will  also  spend  one  hundred  hours  working  with  youthful  offend-  ers,  who,  I  believe,  could  profit  tre-  mendously  from  one  hundred  hours  away  from  the  grind  of  science  or  math,  listening  instead  to  me  explain-  ing  why  I  am  talking  to  them  instead  of  their  teachers  or  parents.  There  is  far  too  little  interrelating  between  peo-  ple  like  myself  and  youthful  offenders.  These  are  usually  among  the  brightest  andmost  attractive  members  of  our  society,  and  so-I  want  to  re\xc3\xa9empha-  size  this-I  consider  spending  one  hundred  hours  with  them  in  no  wey  a  punishment  but  an  opportunity  I  gladly  welcome.  This,  of  course,  is  a  side  benefit;  the  main  thing  is  that  I  will  be  giving  one  hundred  hours  dur-   " b"34  ing  which  these  young  people  will  not  have  a  chance  to  engage  in  any  of-  fenses-at  least,  not  if  I  have  anything  to  say  about  it,  which  I  very  much  hope  I  will.  Ed,  being  a  much  more  intensely  private  person  than  I  am,  will  be  in-  volved  in  supplying  specimens  for  the  urinalysis.  Anyone  who  still  harbors  some  doubt  that  urinalysis  is  one  of  the  best  ways  to  put  your  mistakes  behind  you  simply  does  not  understand  the  stringent  laboratory  procedures  neces-  sary  to  insure  mutual  trust.  Ed  will  be  donating  tenper  cent  of  his  time  to  provide  these  specimens,  on  a  random  basis.  The  random  pattern  has  been  worked  out  in  consultation  with  the  Department  of  Higher  Mathematics  at  M.LT.,  where  a  computer  will  convey  a  signal  to  our  home-computer  modem,  at  which  time  Ed  will  con-  tribute  the  specimen  and  relay  it  to  the  lab  via  one  of  New  York's  top  bonded  messenger  services,  which  will  be  on  twenty-four-hour  standby,  in  order  to  maintain  the  scientific  integrity  of  the  procedure.  Thanks  to  advances  made  in  recent  years  by  medical-research  surveys  and  major  corporate  personnel  depart-  ments,  we  now  know  that  the  primary  cause  of  human  mistakes  is  a  lack  of  self-respect,  in  turn  caused  by  an  im-  personal  society  in  which  no  one  has  cared  enough  to  monitor  our  body  chemistries  on  an  individual,  one-to-  one  level  in  a  scientific  setting.  In-  stead,  we  are  all  too  often  at  the  mercy  of  informal  speculation  by  those  with  no  special  training.  Ed's  contribution  is  an  effort  to  help  change  all  that,  and  in  the  long  run  we  expect  it  to  influ-  ence  sizable  numbers  of  young  people  to  participate  in  such  programs  them-  selves.  As  a  more  direct  result,  I  believe  we  are  going  tosee  a  significant  increase  in  the  respect  that  youthful  offenders  will  feel  for  Ed  when  I  explain  to  a     them  in  detail  exactly  how  much  he  is  doing.  I  respect  him  more  already  my-  self,  knowing  that  he  will  be  setting  an  example-far  more  real  than  any  text-  book  lesson-in  the  rigors  of  the  sci-  entific  method  and  the  richly  humanis-  tic  interaction  of  a  private  individual  with  the  society  outside  himself.  I  will  keep  these  remarks  brief,  and  conclude  by  saying  that  it  is  with  a  new  lightness  of  heart  that  we  look  forward  to  Opening  Day.  This  season,  as  in  past  seasons,  we  fully  intend  to  be  behind  first  base,in  the  lower  deck,  which  is  where  our  contract  entitles  us  to  be.  Our  hope  is  that  the  New  York  Mets  will  accept  us  as  worthy  of  being  there.  -Vreronica  Geng  HOW'S  THAT  AGAIN?  DEPARTMENT  [From  the  Honolulu  Advertiser]  Working  the  front  desk  at  the  Sheraton  was  Allyn  Taylor  of  Kauai,  son  of  Howard  Taylor  and  niece  of  Elizabeth  Taylor.  "