 LEAVING  THE  PARTY  Fernanp  BroTts  is  M  leaving  the  Party.  It  was  on  the  news  tonight,  just  after  the  avalanche  and  before  the  weather  report.  There  was  a  worrying  image  -a  million  tons  of  snow  making  for  a  herd  of  cows  at  seven  knots.  The  ava-  lanche  music,  the  Berlioz  &quot;Requiem,&quot;  sowed  anxiety  and  apprehension.  All  at  once,  the  music  stopped,  and  there,  instead  of  the  peak  of  an  Alp,  was  Fernand  Blotte.  He  wore  a  cable-stitch  sweater  in  an  attractive  shade  of  gray.  His  makeup  was  yellowish  along  the  hairline,  with  a  touch  of  mauve  on  cheek  and  chin.  They  had  propped  him  against  a  wall-  to-wall  bookcase,  with  his  arms  crossed  on  his  chest-the  leaving-the-  Party  stance.  A  thimble-size  micro-  phone  hung  round  his  neck  like  an  amulet.  He  opened  and  closed  his  mouth  without  saying  a  word:  perhaps  itis  his  usual  way  of  breathing.  Once  or  twice,  he  bared  his  lower  teeth-a  symptom  of  political  stress.  They  were  playing  a  leaving-the-  Party  waltz,  a  wistful  air  in  a  minor  key,  more  suitable  as  background  for  a  royal  divorceora  thoroughly  wet  summer.  Someone  in  the  studio  may  have  been  rubbing  it  in.    On  Blotte's  head  was  a  moderate  amount  ofclean,  short,  serviceable  hair-Party  hair.  A  small  comb  in  a  plastic  case  could  beseenlying  on  one  of  the  bookshelves.  The  ready-for-use  pocket  comb  is  a  Party  sign-yes,  even  among  the  intelligentsia.  It's  too  bad,  but  it's  so.  When  Germain  Chaudfroid  left  the  Party,  about  a  year  and  ahalf  ago,  he  wore  a  green  turtleneck  pullover.  His  hairdo  was  rather  like  Blotte's,  but  with  a  bit  more  bristle  to  it.  A  few  months  later  Chaudfroid  was  inter-  viewed  again  (his  leaving-the-Party  memoirs  had  been  rushed  into  print),  and  this  time  the  camera  discovered  a  richer  crop  of  hair,  with  a  deep,  strong,  unequivocal  part.  Nothing  straggling,  nothing  bushy,  no  random  locks:  just  calm,  glossy,  abundant  hair,  tapered  quietly  to  the  nape  of  the  neck-ex-Party  hair.  Blotte's  bookshelves,  filled  with  thin,  tired  volumes  in  dull  beiges  and  tans,  offered  nothing  in  the  way  of  artistic  ornamentation,  nothing  to  appease  the  eye.  Where  were  the  strings  of  am-  ber,  the  unframed  graphics,  the  little  squares  of  handweaving  embroidered  with  pigs,  pansies,  watering  cans?  Chaudfroid,  at  the  time  of  Ais  first  MARCH  3,  1986  interview,  still  had  such  artifacts  on  his  shelves.  In  the  old  days,  when  Blotte  and  Chaudfroid  led  delegations  of  authors  and  thinkers  Eastward,  they  would  be  met  by  similar  delegations  travelling  very  slightly  Westward,  and  the  East-to-slightly-West  delegates  would  cover  them  with  People's  pres-  ents.  (The  West-to-East  delegates  of-  fered  subtle  advice  and  praise.)  But  during  his  second  interview  it  would  be  seen  that  Chaudfroid  had  replaced  his  People's  presents  with  glass  paper-  weights.  For  the  moment,  Blotte  had  just  the  comb.  Blotte.  Fernand  Blotte.  Isn't  he  the  one  who  wrote  the  ground-breaking  essay  about  paper  knives?  About  the  mutually  supportive  relationship  that  develops  between  reader  and  literature,  provided  that  reader  can  learn  to  slice  swiftly  and  coolly,  leaving  no  ragged  edges?  Reader  owes  literature  trust  and  fidelity,  Blotte  declared,  and  liter-  ature  owes  reader  protection.  The  trouble  was  that  by  the  time  Blotte  published  hisessay,  ready-to-read  lit-  erature  had  been  on  the  market  for  some  years  and  paper  knives  had  be-  come  obsolete.  His  explanation  was  taken  to  be  metaphor,  and  while  it  brought  him  acclaim  on  the  one  hand,  it  got  him  in  trouble  on  the  other.  Blotte  tried  it  again,  apologizing  for  the  mistake:  it  was  read-  er  that  was  supposed  to  offerliterature  protec-  tion,  while  literature  Cf  stayed  home  and  minded  the  children.  \\  No,  wait;  that  was  -  Chaudfroid.  Blotte's  the  X  fellow  who  turned  up  for  his  cell  meeting,  s  right  as  rain,  happy  as  a  lark,  and  suddenly  they  all  started  clapping  and  chanting,  &quot;Blotte,  out!  Blotte,  out!&quot;  They  took  a  vote,  hands  raised,  and  next  thing  Blotte  knew  he  had  been  ejected  into  the  dark  street.  Actually,  that  sounds  more  like  Chaudfroid.  It's  in  the  third  volume  of  his  memoirs.  Chaud-  froid  was  attached  to  a  working-class  cell,  a  collar-and-tie  cell.  Most  of  his  comrades  and  ac-  quaintances  were  in  in-  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  tellectual  cells,  some  wear-  ing  Shetland  sweaters,  some  crewneck  with  ver-  tical  ribbed  effect,  some  peon-style  loose-sleeved  pullovers  with  woolly  waist  fringe,  some  two  per  cent  mixed-mohair.  His  comrades  told  Chaudfroid  he  was  lucky  to  bein  a  working-class  cell.  Chaud-  froid  thought  so,  too.  Then-boom!-the  work-  ers  were  clapping  and  chanting,  &quot;Chaudfroid,  Chaudfroid,  out,  out,  out!,&quot;  and  when  they  took  the  vote  he  saw  he  hadn't  a  friend  in  the  room.  He  felt  lonely,  of  course,  but,  as  he  said  in  the  second  inter-  view,  his  arms  folded  over  ablack  Italian  cashmere  T-shirt,  &quot;I  knew  I  would  never  have  to  wear  a  tie  again.&quot;  (Soon  afterthat,  Louis  [Loulou]  Soupape,  a  work-  er,  left  the  Party.  He  tore  up  his  card,  sent  the  pieces  to  headquarters  by  regis-  tered  mail,  and  stopped  paying  his  dues.  His  wife  bought  him  a  pale-blue  shirt,  because  blue  shows  up  better  than  white  on  television,  and  did  his  hair  with  the  hand  dryer  in  order  to  give  it  media  volume  and  consistency.  Nobody  ever  came  to  interview  him;  nobody  hung  a  microphone  round  his  neck,  or  littered  the  floor  with  wires  and  cables,  or  blew  all  the  lights  out  by  plugging  them  into  the  wrong  place.  He  tried  to  issue  a  statement  and  was  fined  for  pasting  it  on  a  wall.  He  went  on  a  hunger  strike  but  eventually  gave  it  up  and  turned  to  poultry  farming.  Re-  cently,  Soupape  told  a  visitor  he  be-  lieved  he  had  been  ignored  because  there  was  no  perceived  cultural  symbol  in  his  surroundings.  He  had  thought  of  renting  about  twelve  feet  of  an  as-  sembly  line,  so  that  he  could  stand  with  his  back  to  it,  arms  crossed  over  the  pale-blue  shirt,  but  the  place  was  too  small;  once  he  had  the  assembly  line  in  place,  there  was  no  room  left  for  a  camera.  His  memoirs  are  on  tape;  he  is  still  seeking  a  publisher.)  The  leaving-the-Party  waltz  had  been  playing  for  about  twenty  seconds,  with  Blotte  still  silently  breathing  through  his  mouth,  when  his  voice  31      came  in,  above  the  music.  It  sounded  oddly  like  Chaudfroid's.  He  was  in  the  middle  of  telling  about  a  delegation  and  a  journey  by  helicopter  over  a  spruce  forest.  Down  in  a  clearing  there  was  a  moral-rehabilitation  cen-  ter,  where  volunteers  had  gathered  and  were  making  electric  fans.  You  see,  the  economy  was  in  such  a  shaky  condition  (mark  you,  they  weren't  too  proud  to  say  so,  either)  that  there  was  no  other  way  of  getting  electric  fans  to  the-  Unfortunately,  the  voice  faded  and  Blotte  began  his  wordless  breath-  ing  again.  The  music  changed  to  a  sprightly  passage  from  &quot;Copp\xc3\xa9lia.&quot;  Presently  Blotte  recovered  his  own  voice,  just  to  say  that  the  West  had  been  beaten  out  on  the  electric-fan  question.  He  couldspeak  from  a  posi-  tionof  strength  now,  without  being  accused  of  special  pleading:  he  was  leaving  the  Party.  Was  Blotte  merry  or  regretful?  Did  he  miss  the  little  squares  of  embroi-  dered  handwoven  material?  Does  it  mean  he  will  never  say  another  word  about  paper  knives?  These  are  ques-     to  get  Emmanuel  Lewis  tions  he  will  probably  answer  in  his  book.  Meanwhile,  there  was  the  weather-  man,  wearing  hair  of  a  neutral  color,  decently  cut,  texture  perhaps  a  little  dry.  He  could  do  with  a  fresh  herbal  soft-soap  treatment-say,  twice  a  week.  He  was  showing  the  impressive  satellite  photo,  with  all  those  wisps  of  cloud.  There  was  rain  in  all  the  major  cities,  and  it  was  foggy,  foggy  every-  where.  The  weather  music  was  good,  though:  a  brass  band  to  set  your  feet  tapping,  with  the  odd  clash  of  cymbals  to  keep  you  from  dozing  off. "