WEBBING  HappenEp.  REaLLy.)  (  HATS  come  over  Janine,  \xe2\x80\x98J\xe2\x80\x98f  anyway?&quot;  Stu  asks,  reach-  ing  for  the  Chianti.  He  is  sitting  at  the  umbrella  table  on  the  patio,  reading  an  article  in  the  Sunday  magazine  section  (&quot;Milton  Fried-  man,  Economist  for  the  Eighties,&quot;  June  17th,  page  32).  I  am  sitting  at  the  edge  of  the  pool,  dangling  my  feet  and  looking  at  the  way  the  water  makes  my  shins  appear  to  bend  a  lit-  tle  bit  forward.  We  are  at  my  moth-  er's  third  husband's  summer  house  on  Long  Island,  approximately  a  nine-  ty-minute  drive  from  New  York  City.  Stu  looks  at  me,  but  I  don't  answer.  Janine  is  his  stepsister,  and,  to  tell  the  truth,  I  have  always  found  her  dis-  turbing.  Stu  knows  that;  after  a  mo-  ment,  he  fills  his  glass  and  returns  to  his  magazine.  Since  Stu  is  in  adver-  tising,  being  employed  by  Miles  &amp;  McMullan,  on  Sixty-fourth  Street,  he  loves  to  look  at  the  ads,  He  turns  the  pages  smoothly,  as  if  the  magazine  were  an  extension  of  himself.  From  the  portable  radio  sitting  on  the  cocktail  cart,  the  latest  hit  song  blares:  She's  ferocious,  And  she  knows  just  what  it  takes  to  make  a  pro  blush  ...  &quot;[REDACTED]  calling  Pam!  [REDACTED]  calling  Pam!&quot;  Nat  startles  me.  Nat  has  come  onto  the  patio  through  the  sliding  glass  doors  while  I  was  lost  in  my  reverie.  Nat  is  Stu's  best  friend  from  Bennington,  in  [REDACTED],  and  my  for-  mer  lover.  Actually,  he  was  my  lover,  thenhe  was  my  former  lover,  then  he  was  my  lover  again,  and  now  he's  my  former  lover  again.  (Stu  knows  noth-  ing  of  this.)  Nat  is  a  carpenter,  and  a  good  one.  His  hands  caressing  the  grain  of  fine  wood  furniture  have  a  beauty  all  their  own.  Stu  and  I  are  being  gentle  with  Nat  these  days,  be-  cause  his  grandmother  just  died.  Not  his  real  grandmother  but  a  regional  sales  representative  for  True  Temper  Hardware,  whom  Nat  used  to  call  Grandmother.  Nat's  lady,  Alice,  is  in  the  hospital  having  a  baby  this  morn-  ing,  so  Nat  has  both  death  and  birth  in  his  life.  From  the  Sony  portable  television  in  the  cabana,  the  happy  jingle  of  a  tuna-  fish  commercial  can  be  heard:  Yum-Yum  Bumble  Bee  Bumble  Bee  Tuna.  I  love  Bumble  Bee  Bumble  Bee  Tuna  I  look  at  Nat  over  my  sunglasses.  &quot;Hi,  Nat,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;Wrong  again.  Nat's  gone  to  the  station  to  pick  up  Claudette,&quot;  Jerry  says.  Jerry  is  Nat's  identical-twin  brother,  as  well  as  a  skilled  potter.  &quot;Jerry  ...&quot;  Stu  says,  reaching  for  an  apple.  &quot;You  didn't  invite  Claudette  up  here?  Did  you&quot;&quot;  &quot;Well,  I  kind  of  did,  actually,&quot;  Jerry  says,  scanning  the  distant  tree  line.  Claudette  is  a  sculptor,  and  a  Hawaiian.  Stu  knows  I  find  Hawaiians  very  troubling.  On  the  television,  on  &quot;The  Magilla  Gorilla  Show,&quot;  Magilla  is  trying  to  explain  something  to  Mr.  Peebles,  the  pet-store  owner.  Suddenly,  a  memory  of  when  I  was  a  little  girl  comes  to  me,  vaulting  over  the  years  as  fresh  and  vivid  as  if  it  happened  yesterday.  One  Sunday  in  June,  when  I  was  ten  or  eleven,  my  father  (or  was  it  my  older  brother;  no,  it  was  my  father,  I'm  pretty  sure)-  anyway,  he  took  me  and  my  friend  Kathy,  or,  rather,  Beverly,  in  our  car  down  [REDACTED]  and  we  drove  to  For-  ster's  and  we  got  frozen  custard.  Ki-  ther  that  or  maybe  we  went  to  the  park.  There  is  a  crunch  of  gravel  in  the  driveway.  A  minute  later,  Nat,  Claudette,  Aida,  and  Ren\xc3\xa9  come  through  the  hedge.  Aida  and  Ren\xc3\xa9  are  two  other  people  whom  we  know.  Al-  most  telepathically,  I  can  feel  Stu  start  to  worry.  For  his  sake,  and  for  the  sake  of  the  life  he  has  so  carefully  " b" imagined  for  us,  I  smile  up  at  them  all.  The  look  of  terror  on  Nat's  face  freezes  my  greeting  in  my  throat.  &quot;Krauts!&quot;  Nat  screams,  tackling  Claudette  to  the  terrazzo  and  shielding  her  body  with  his  own  as  the  deafen-  ing  blast  of  jet  engines  fills  the  air  and  twin  .50-calibre  machine  guns  stitch  the  wood  siding  above  him  into  a  splintered  needlepoint  of  death.  &quot;Hit  the  dirt!&quot;  Stu  cries,  but  I  am  way  ahead  of  him,  hugging  the  con-  crete  so  fiercely  asto  weld  its  very  soul  to  mine.  In  the  next  few  moments,  total  pan-  demonium  takes  over.  Explosions  are  everywhere.  The  earth  beneath  me  lifts  and  falls.  Whomp!  Whomp!  Troops  run  by  carrying  rockets  and  mortars.  Theirs  or  ours?  I  cannot  tell.  Ricocheting  bullets  sting  my  cheek  with  spurts  of  pulverized  brick  dust.  Am  I  screaming?  I  must  be;  the  uni-  verse  is  one  endless  scream,  and  I  am  part  of  it.  More  guys  run  by  with  guns  and  radios.  One  horrible  thought  fills  my  entire  mind:  [REDACTED]  is  being  in-  vaded!  And  by  Germans!  The  staccato  burstof  a  machine  gun  stutters  out  its  fatal  message  as  tracer  bullets  set  the  garden  ablaze.  How  can  it  be?  We  defeated  the  Germans  soundly  over  forty  years  ago!  But  it's  true-I  knew     the  moment  the  plane  came  over  on  its  strafing  run  and  I  smelled  that  famil-  iar  Boche  smell  (not  familiar  to  me,  of  course,  because  I  was  too  young  for  WW  II;  I  mean  familiar  to  my  father,  who  told  me  about  it)-that  smell  of  ether,  camel  dung,  and  boiled  cabbage  that  the  German  Army  carried  wher-  ever  it  went.  &quot;Move  out!  To  the  trees!  It's  our  only  chance!&quot;  Nat  shouts,  as  the  rain  of  spent  shell  casings  on  the  tile  roof  sounds  a  grim  counterpoint  to  his  hoarse  command.  There  is  a  brief  lull  in  the  firing,  like  a  rest  in  a  famous  symphony,  and  then  all  hell  breaks  loose  again  and  we  are  on  our  feet,  suddenly,  and  running.  Running  blindly,  running  and  crawling  and  dodging  through  a  world  of  fresh  cra-  ters  newly  in  bloom  with  orange  orchids  of  smoky  flame.  Just  then,  I  happen  to  look  up  at  the  trees  we  are  running  toward,  only  to  see  them  be-  gin  to  topple  to  one  side  and  another-  an  entire  division  of  Panzer  tanks,  heading  straight  for  us!  With  the  en-  ergy  born  of  desperation,  I  grab  a  German  paratrooper  who  has  just  landed,  hit  him  with  a  karate  chop  on  the  bridge  of  the  nose,  and  wrestle  his,  submachine  gun  away.  Throwing  myself  flat  in  one  of  the  nearby  craters,  I  begin  pumping  round  after  round  into  the  ap-  proaching  ranks  of  the  invader,  as  a  brassy  taste  I  know  to  be  fear  fills  my  parched  and  tight-  ening  throat.  HEN  I  was  in  the  fourth  grade  -when  I  was  nine  years  old,  and  ten-I  some-  times  used  to  wonder  if  somewhere  on  earth  there  might  not  be  an-  other  little  girl  who  was  exactly  like  me  in  every  way,  who  looked  like  me  and  dressed  like  me  and  talked  like  me  and  had  the  same  barrettes  and  everything.  And  what  if  we  went  to  the  same  school  -who  would  be  the  more  pop-  ular,  she  or  I'?  Then,  too,  I  used  to  wonder  what  I  would  do  if  I  had  a  million  dollars,  and  which  movie  star  I  would  like  to  marry,  and  who  would  win  if  God  and  Super-  man  got  into  a  fight,  and  which  horse  was  prettier,  Misty  of  Chincoteague  or  National  Velvet,  and  whether  balleri-  nas  had  to  do  gym  at  school  or  could  get  excused.  I  guess  every  kid  wonders  about  stuff  like  that.  Now  that  I  am  grown,  with  a  husband  and  a  wife  and  children  of  my  own,  I  can  see  that  many  of  the  questions  I  used  to  wonder  about,  while  not  wrong,  were  certainly  misguided.  All  of  us-friends,  lovers,  colleagues,  German  troopers-are  usually  caught  up  in  a  scheme  much  larger  than  we  imagine  at  the  time.  It's  just  like  the  webbing  of  the  lawn  chair  I  was  sitting  near  right  before  the  attack:to  us,  our  lives  seem  to  be  straight  lines,  but  in  fact  they  are  in-  terwoven  with  other  lives  in  a  way  that  makes  a  net,  or  web,  that  maybe  some  greater  being  might  use  for  something,  just  in  the  way  we  use  that  lawn  chair.  Nat  loves  me;  I  love  Stu;  Stu  loves  Claudette;  Claudette  loves  Mr.  Hurstwood  (from  &quot;Sister  Car-  rie,&quot;  by  Theodore  Dreiser).  Weaving  and  reweaving,  these  many  separate  strands  seek  their  own  warp  and  woof.  To  me,  it  is  all  quite  astonishing.  This  raid  by  combined  German  air  and  ground  forces  only  serves  to  under-  score  my  point.  -Ian  Frazier  "