"LADIES  and  gentlemen,  Colonel  Khadafy  has  graciously  agreed  to  stay  and  autograph  books  and  answer  a  few  questions.  Please  line  up  behind  the  microphone  in  either  aisle.  Colonel,  [REDACTED]  Woolf  once  said  that  a  writer  needs  a  room  of  his  or  her  own  and  five  hundred  pounds  a  year.  Would  you  comment?  I  think  [REDACTED]  was  on  to  some-  thing.  You  absolutely  need  a  quiet  place  all  to  yourself.  At  a  certain  stage  in  my  life,  I  considered  moving  to  a  farm  and  learning  to  vibrate  with  the  small  rhythms  of  the  natural  world.  But  the  blazing  desert  sun,  and  all  the  sand-very  little  grew.  Now  I  have  a  nice  corner  in  the  Hall  of  Justice  for  my  desk.  But  no  window.  If  you  have  a  window,  you  stare  out  of  it.  I  met  you  once  in  B.  Dalton-the  one  in  Wau  el  Kabir.  What  advice  can  you  give  young  writers?  Well,  besides  the  obvious-no  booze,  dice,  or  adultery-I'd  have  to  say  that  they  should  never  steal.  A  writer  needs  many  things-a  conscience,  a  voice-  but  mostly  he  needs  his  hands.  Your  haiku:  Camels-desert  frigates-  Never  gulp,  merely  sip.  Shoot  them  in  the  brain.  What  does  it  mean?  It  doesn't  mean  anything.  Poetry,  good  poetry,  isn't  about  something.  You  might  as  well  ask  &quot;What  doesa  bird  mean?  What  is  a  Mirage  jet  fighter  about?&quot;  Why  is  your  work  so  full  of  violent  images?  I  reject  labels.  If  my  work  seems  violent,  it  is  because  we  live  in  a  vio-  lent  world.  We  try  to  forget  this-we  try  to  wrap  our  age  in  plastic  and  spray  it  with  antiseptic.  But  men  don't  change.  Papa  knew  this,  knew  it  too  well.  In  the  end-  But  it's  too  hard  to  talk  about  Papa.  Let's  talk  about  Mailer.  You've  read  his  essay  &quot;The  White  Negro&quot;?  &quot;A  stench  offear  has  come  out  of  every  pore  of  American  life,  and  we  suffer  from  a  collective  failure  of  nerve.&quot;  I  know  what  you're  thinking-the  [REDACTED]  syndrome.  But  that  was  written  in  1957!  When  do  you  find  the  time  to  write,  now  that  you  are  a  head  of  state?  I  find  I  am  freshest  in  the  early  morning.  I'm  just  starting  out-I  had  a  story  in  last  month's  &quot;Gulf  of  Sidra  Re-  view,&quot;  about  my  mother.  But  I'm  wor-  ried.  What  can  fame  do  to  a  writer?  Fame  can  be  the  greatest  trap  of  all,  because  it  is  the  most  comfortable.  Let  me  tell  you  a  story.  A  few  weeks  ago,  on  a  publicity  tour,  I  was  doing  Merv.  He's  syndicated  now,  not  network,  but  we  go  back  a  long  way,  so  I  stopped  by.  I'm  waiting  in  the  greenroom  to  go  on,  and  all  of  a  sudden  Joey  Heath-  erton  pops  in.  Normally,  I  would  have  shot  her  in  the  brain  without  even  thinking.  But  you  begin  to  move  in  that  world  long  enough  and  you  start  to  lose  touch  with  your  authentic  self.  21  Your  roots,  pulled  out  of  their  na-  tive  sand,  begin  to  wither.  My  first  thought  when  I  saw  her  was  to  ask  if  she'd  been  in  Vegas  lately  and  how  was  Shecky.  But  if  you  lose  yourself  you're  over  as  a  writer.  I  made  myself  shoot  her.  And  then  Charo  minces  in.  &quot;No  speeky  dee  English?&quot;  I  ask  her.  Kerpow.  As  a  beginning  writer,  do  I  need  a  word  processor?  This  is  the  question  I  hear  most  frequently,  and  it's  one,  unfortunately,  for  which  I  have  no  easy  answer.  On  the  one  hand,  a  computer  can't  laugh,  it  can't  shed  tears,  it  can't  shed  blood  -not  yet,  anyway.  It  won't  turn  bad  writing  into  good.  But  I'd  find  it  hard  to  go  back  to  using  a  typewriter,  I  must  say.  The  ease  with  which  you  can  move  paragraphs,  the  total  elimination  of  retyping!  If  you  can  afford  one,  buy  it.  Butyou  don't  need  the  512  K  top-of-the-line  model,  not  unless  you're  writing  a  Civil  War  saga,  brother  against  brother.  Two  hundred  and  fifty-six  K  is  plenty.  "