36  BASIL  FROM  HER  GARDEN  -In  the  dream,  my  father  was  playing  the  piano,  a  Beethoven  something,  in  a  large  concert  hall  that  was  filled  with  people.  I  was  in  the  audience  and  I  was  reading  a  book.  I  suddenly  realized  that  this  was  the  wrong  thing  to  do  when  my  father  was  performing,  soI  sat  up  and  paid  attention.  He  was  playing  very  well,  I  thought.  Suddenly  the  conductor  stopped  the  performance  and  began  to  sing  a  passage  for  my  father,  a  passage  that  my  father  had  evidently  botched.  My  father  listened  attentively,  smiling  at  the  conductor.  Q-Does  your  father  play?  In  actu-  ality?  A-Not  a  note.  Q-Did  the  conductor  resemble  anyone  you  know!?  A-He  looked  a  bit  like  Althea.  The  same  cheekbones  and  the  same  chin.  Q-Who  is  Althea?  A-Someone  I  know.  Q-What  do  you  do,  after  work,  in  the  evenings  or  on  weekends?  A-Just  ordinary  things.  Q-No  special  interests?  A-I'm  very  interested  in  bow-  hunting.  These  new  bows  they  have  now,  what  they  call  a  compound  bow.  Also,  I'm  a  member  of  the  Galapagos  Society,  we  work  for  the  environment,  it's  really  a  very  effective-  Q-And  what  else?  A-Well,  adultery.  I  would  say  that  that's  how  I  spend  most  of  my  free  time.  In  adultery.  Q-You  mean  regular  adultery.  A-Yes.  Sleeping  with  people  to  whom  one  is  not  legally  bound.  Q-These  are  women.  A-Invariably.  Q-And  so  that's  what  you  do,  in  the  evenings  or  on  weekends.  A-I  had  this  kind  of  strange  expe-  rience.  Today  is  Saturday,  right?  I  called  up  this  haircutter  that  I  go  to,  her  name  is  Ruth,  and  asked  for  an  appointment.  I  needed  a  haircut.  So  she  says  she  has  openings  atten,  ten-  thirty,  eleven,  eleven-thirty,  twelve,  twelve-thirty-  On  a  Saturday.  Do  you  think  the  world  knows  something  I  don't  know!?  Q-It's  possible.  A-What  if  she  stabs  me  in  the  ear  with  the  scissors?  Q-Unlikely,  I  would  think.  A-Well,  she's  a  good  soul.  She's  had  several  husbands.  They've  all    been  master  sergeants,  in  the  Army.  She  seems  to  gravitate  toward  N.C.O.  Clubs.  Have  you  noticed  all  these  little  black  bugs  flying  around  here?  I  don't  know  where  they  come  from.  Q-They're  very  small,  they're  like  gnats.  A-They  come  in  clouds,  then  they  go  away.  -I  sometimes  think  of  myself  as  a  person  who,  you  know  what  I  mean,  could  have  done  something  else,  it  doesn't  matter  what  particularly.  Just  something  else.  I  saw  an  ad  in  the  Sunday  paper  for  the  C.I.A.,  a  recruit-  ing  ad,  maybe  a  quarter  of  a  page,  and  I  suddenly  thought,  It  might  be  inter-  esting  to  do  that.  Even  though  I've  always  been  opposed  to  the  C.I.A.,  when  they  were  trying  to  bring  43756261  down,  the  stuf  with  Lumumba  in  Africa,  the  stuff  in  Central  Amer-  ica.  ...  Then  here  is  this  ad,  per-  fectly  straightforward,  &quot;where  your  career  is  [REDACTED]'s  strength&quot;  or  some-  thing  like  that,  &quot;aptitude  for  learn-  ing  aforeign  language  is  a  plus&quot;  or  something  like  that.  I've  always  been  good  at  languages,  andI'm  sitting  there  thinking  about  how  my  r\xc3\xa9sum\xc3\xa9  might  look  to  them,  starting  com-  pletely  over  in  something  complete-  ly  new,  changing  the  very  sort  of  person  I  am,  and  there  was  an  at-  traction,  a  definite  attraction.  Of  course  the  maximum  age  was  thirty-  five.  I  guess  they  want  themmore  malleable.  -So,  in  the  evenings  or  on  week-  Q  ends-  A-Not  every  night  or  every  week-  end.  I  mean,  this  depends  on  the  cir-  cumstances.  Sometimes  my  wife  and  I  go  to  dinner  with  people,  or  watch  television-  Q-But  in  the  main-  A-It's  not  that  often.  It's  once  in  a  while.  Q-  Adultery  is  a  sin.  A-It  is  classified  as  a  sin,  yes.  Ab-  solutely.  Q-The  Seventh  Commandment  says-  A-I  know  what  it  says.  I  was  raised  on  the  Seventh  Commandment.  But.  Q-But  what?  A-The  Seventh  Commandment  is  wrong.  Q-It's  wrong?  A-Some  outfits  call  it  the  Sixth  and  others  the  Seventh.  It's  wrong.  Q-The  whole  Commandment?  A-I  don't  know  how  it  happened,  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  whether  it's  a  mistranslation  from  the  Aramaic  or  whatever,  it  may  not  even  have  been  Aramaic,  I  don't  know,  I  certainly  do  not  pretend  to  scholarship  in  this  area,  but  my  sense  of  the  matter  is  that  the  Seventh  Commandment  is  an  error.  Q-Well  if  that  was  true  it  would  cl;ange  quite  a  lot  of  things,  wouldn't  it?  A-T  ake  the  pressure  off,  a  bit.  Q-Have  you  told  your  wife?  A-Yes,  Grete  knows.  Q-How'd  she  take  it?  A-Well,  she  liked  the  Seventh  Commandment.  You  could  reason  that  it  was  in  her  interest  to  support  the  Seventh  Commandment  for  the  preser-  vation  of  the  family  unit  and  this  sort  of  thing  but  to  reason  that  way  is,  I  would  say,  to  take  an  extremely  nar-  row  view  of  Grete,  of  what  she  thinks.  She's  not  predictable.  She  once  told  me  that  she  didn't  want  me,  she  wanted  a  suite  of  husbands,  ten  or  twenty-  Q-What  did  you  say?  A-I  said,  Go  to  it.  Q-Well,  how  does  it  make  you  feel?  Adultery.  A-There's  a  certain  amount  of  guilt  attached.  I  feel  guilty.  But  I  feel  guilty  even  without  adultery.  I  exist  in  a  morass  of  guilt.  There's  maybe  a  little  additional  wallop  of  guilt  but  I  already  feel  so  guilty  that  I  hardly  notice  it.  Q-Where  does  all  this  guilt  come  from?  The  extra-adulterous  guilt?  A-I  keep  wondering  if,  say,  there  is  intelligent  life  on  other  planets,  the  scientists  argue  that  something  like  two  per  cent  of  the  other  planets  have  the  conditions,  the  physical  conditions,  to  support  life  in  the  way  it  happened  here,  did  Christ  visit  each  and  every  planet,  go  through  the  same  rou-  tine,  the  Agony  in  the  Garden,  the  Crucifixion,  and  so  on.  ..  .  And  these  guys  on  these  other  planets,  these  lifeforms,  maybe  they  look  like  boll  weevils  or  something,  on  a  much  larger  scale  of  course,  were  they  told  that  they  shouldn't  go  to  bed  with  other  attractive  six-foot  boll  weevils  arrayed  in  silver  and  gold  and  with  little  squirts  of  Opium  behind  the  ears?  Doesn't  make  sense.  But  of  course  our  human  understanding  is  im-  perfect.  Q-You  haven't  answered  me.  This  general  guilt-  A-Yes,  that's  the  interesting  thing.  I  hazard  that  it  is  not  guilt  so  much  as  itis  inadequacy.  I  feel  that  everything  is  being  nibbled  away,  because  I  can't  get  it  right-     Q-Would  you  like  to  be  able  to  fly?  A-It's  crossed  my  mind.  Q\xe2\x80\x94Myself,  I  think  aboutbeing  justsort  of  a  regular  person,  one  who  worries  about  cancer  a  lot,  every  little  thing  a  prediction  of  cancer,  no  I  don't  want  to  go  for  my  every-two-  years  checkup  because  what  if  they  find  something?  I  wonder  what  will  kill  me  and  when  it  will  happen  and  how  it  will  happen,  and  I  wonder  about  my  parents,  who  are  still  alive,  and  what  will  happen  to  them.  This  seems  to  me  to  bea  proper  set  of  things  to  worry  about.  Last  things.  -I  don't  think  God  gives  a  snap  about  adultery.  This  is  just  an  opinion,  of  course.  Q-So  how  do  you,  how  shall  I  put  it,  pursue-  A-  You  think  about  this  staggering  concept,  the  mind  of  God,  and  then  you  think  He's  sitting  around  wor-  rying  about  this  guy  and  this  wom-  an  at  the  Beechnut  Travelodge?  I  think  not.  Q-Well  He  doesn't  have  to  think  about  every  particular  instance,  He  justsort  of  laid  out  the  general  princi-  ples-  A-He  also  created  creatures  who,  with  a  single  powerful  glance-  Q-The  eyes  burn.  A-They  do.  Q-The  heart  leaps.  A-Like  a  terrapin.  Q-Stupid  youth  returns.  A-Like  hockey  sticks  falling  out  of  a  long-shut  closet.  Q-Do  you  play?  A-I  did.  Many  years  ago.  Q-Who  is  Althea?  A-Someone  I  know.  Q-We're  basically  talking  about  Althea.  A-Yes.  I  thought  you  understood  that.  Q-We're  not  talking  about  whole-  sale-  A-Oh  Lord  no.  Who  has  the  strength?  Q-What's  she  like?  A-She's  I  guess  you'd  say  a  little  on  the  boring  side.  To  the  innocent  eye.  Q-She  appears  to  be  a  contained,  controlled  person,  free  of  raging  inter-  nal  fires.  A-But  my  eye  is  not  innocent.  To  " b"38  the  already  corrupted  eye,  she's-  Q-I  don't  want  to  question  you  too  closely  on  this.  I  don't  want  to  strain  yourpowers  of-  A-Well,  no,  I  don't  mind  talking  about  it.  It  fell  on  me  like  a  ton  of  bricks.  I  was  walking  in  the  park  one  day.  Q-Which  park?  A-That  big  park  over  by-  Q-Yeah,  I  know  the  one.  A-This  woman  was  sitting  there.  Q-They  sit  in  parks  a  lot,  I've  noticed  that.  Especially  when  they're  angry.  The  solitary  bench.  Shoulders  raised,  legs  kicking-  -I've  crossed  both  major  oceans  by  ship-the  [REDACTED]  twice,  on  troopships,  the  Atlantic  once,  on  a  passenger  liner.  You  stand  out  there,  at  the  rail,  at  dusk,  and  the  sea  is  limitless,  water  in  every  direction,  never-ending,  you  think  water  forever,  the  movement  of  the  ship  seems  slow  but  also  seems  inexorable,  you  feel  you  will  be  moving  this  way  forever,  the  [REDACTED]  is  about  seventy  million  square  miles,  about  one-third  of  the  earth's  surface,  the  ship  might  be  making  twenty  knots,  I'm  eating  oranges  be-  cause  that's  all  I  can  keep  down,  twelvedays  of  it  with  thousands  of  young  soldiers  all  around,  half  of  them  seasick-  On  the  Queen  Mary,  in  tourist  class,  we  got  rather  good  food,  there  was  a  guy  assigned  to  our  table  who  had  known  Paderewski,  the  great  pianist  who  was  also  Prime  Minister  of  [REDACTED],  he  talked  about  Paderewski  for  four  days,  an  ocean  of  anecdotes-  -When  I  was  first  married,  Q  when  I  was  twenty,  I  didn't  know  where  the  clitoris  was.  I  didn't  know  there  was  such  a  thing.  Shouldn't  somebody  have  told  me?  A-Perhaps  your  wife?  Q-Of  course,  she  was  too  shy.  In  those  days  people  didn't  go  around  saying,  This  is  the  clitoris  and  this  is  what  its  proper  function  is  and  this  is  what  you  can  do  to  help  out.  I  finally  found  it.  In  a  book.  A-German!?  Q-Dutch.  -A  dead  bear  in  a  blue  dress,  face  down  on  the  kitchen  floor.  Itrip  over  it,  inthe  dark,  when  I  get  up  at  2  [REDACTED]  to  see  if  there's  anything  to  eat  in  the  refrigerator.  It's  an  architectural  problem,  marriage.  If  we  could  live  in  separate  houses,  and  visit  each  other  when  we  felt  particularly  gay-  It  would  be  expensive,  yes.  But  as  itis  she  has  to  endure  me  in  all  my  worst  manifestations,  early  in  the  morning  and  late  at  night  and  in  the  nutsy  obsessed  noontimes.  When  I  wake  up  from  my  nap  you  don't  get  the  laugh-  ing  cavalier,  you  get  a  rank  pigfooted  belching  blunderer.  I  knew  this  one  guy  who  built  a  wall  down  the  middle  of  his  apartment.  An  impenetrable  wall.  He  had  a  very  big  apartment.  It  worked  out  very  well.  Concrete  block,  basically,  with  fibre-glass  insulation  on  top  of  that  and  sheetrock  on  top  of  that-  Q-What  about  coveting  your  neighbor's  wife?  A-Well  on  one  side  there  are  no  wives,  strictly  speaking,  there  are  two  floors  and  two  male  couples,  all  very  nice  people.  On  the  other  side,  Bill  and  Rachel  have  the  whole  house.  I  like  Rachel  but  I  don't  covet  her.  I  could  covet  her,  she's  covetable,  quite  lovely  and  spirited,  but  in  point  of  fact  our  relationship  is  that  of  neighborli-  ness.  I  jump-start  her  car  when  her  battery  is  dead,  she  gives  me  basil  from  her  garden,  she's  got  acresof  basil,  not     literally  acres  but-  Anyhow,  I  don't  think  that's  much  of  a  problem,  cov-  eting  your  neighbor's  wife.  Just  speak-  ing  administratively,  I  don't  see  why  there's  an  entire  Commandment  de-  voted  to  it.  It's  a  mental  exercise,  cov-  eting.  To  covet  is  not  necessarily  to  take  action.  Q-I  covet  my  neighbor's  leaf  blower.  It  has  this  neat  Vari-Flo  deal  that  lets  you-  A-I  can  see  that.  -I  am  feverishly  interested  in  these  questions.  Q-Ethics  has  always  been  where  my  heart  is.  Q-Moral  precepting  stings  the  dull  mind  into  attentiveness.  Q-I'm  only  a  bit  depressed,  only  a  bit.  Q-A  new  arrangement  of  ideas,  based  upon  the  best  thinking,  would  produce  a  more  humane  moral  order,  which  we  need.  Q-Apple  honey,  disposed  upon  the  sexual  parts,  is  not  an  index  of  deca-  dence.  Decadence  itself  is  not  as  bad  as  it's  been  painted.  Q-That  he  watched  his  father  play  the  piano  when  his  father  could  not  play  the  piano  and  that  he  was  reading  a  book  while  his  father  played  the  piano  in  a  very  large  hall  before  a  very  large  audience  only  means  that  he  finds  his  roots,  as  it  were,  untrustwor-  thy.  The  father  imagined  as  a  root.  That's  not  unusual.  Q-As  for  myself,  I  am  content  " b"   with  too  little,  I  know  this  about  my-  self  and  I  do  not  commend  myself  for  it  and  perhaps  one  day  I  shall  be  able  to  change  myself  into  a  hungrier  be-  ing.  Probably  not.  Q-The  leaf  blower,  for  example.  -I  see  Althea  now  and  then,  not  often  enough.  We  sigh  together  in  a  particular  bar,  it's  almost  always  empty.  She  tells  me  about  her  kids  and  I  tell  her  about  my  kids.  I  obey  the  Commandments,  the  sensible  ones.  Where  they  don't  know  what  they're  talking  about  I  ignore  them.  I  keep  thinking  about  the  story  of  the  two  old  women  in  church  listening  to  the  priest  discoursing  on  the  dynamics  of  the  married  state.  At  the  end  of  the  sermon  one  turns  to  the  other  and  says,  &quot;I  wish  I  knew  as  little  about  it  as  he  does.&quot;  Q-He  critiques  us,  we  critique  Him.Does  Grete  also  engage  in  dalli-  ance?  A-How  quaint  you  are.  I  think  she  has  friends  whom  she  sees  now  and  then.  Q-How  does  that  make  you  feel?  A-I  wish  her  well.  Q-What's  in  your  wallet?  A-The  usual.  Credit  cards,  pic-  tures  of  the  children,  driver's  license,  forty  dollars  in  cash,  Amex  receipts-  Q-I  sometimes  imagine  that  I  am  in  Pest  Control.  I  have  a  small  white  truck  with  a  red  diamond-shaped  em-  blem  on  the  door  and  a  white  jumpsuit  with  the  same  emblem  on  the  breast  pocket.  I  park  the  truck  in  front  of  a  subscriber's  neat  three-hundred-thou-  sand-dollar  home,  extract  the  silver  cannister  of  deadly  pest  killer  from  the  back  of  the  truck,  and  walk  up  the  brick  sidewalk  to  the  house's  front  door.  Chimes  ring,  the  door  swings  open,  a  young  wife  in  jeans  and  a  pink  flannel  shirt  worn  outside  the  jeans  is  standing  there.  &quot;Pest  Control,&quot;  I  say.  She  smiles  at  me,  I  smile  back  and  move  past  her  into  the  house,  into  the  handsomely  appointed  kitchen.  The  cannister  is  suspended  by  a  sling  from  my  right  shoulder,  and,  pumping  the  mechanism  occasionally  with  my  right  hand,  I  point  the  nozzle  of  the  hose  at  the  baseboards  and  begin  to  spray.  I  spray  alongside  the  refrigerator,  alongside  the  gas  range,  under  the  sink,  and  behind  the  kitchen  table.  Next,  I  move  to  the  bathrooms,  pump-  ing  and  spraying.  The  young  wife  is  in  another  room,  waiting  for  me  to  finish.  I  walk  into  the  main  sitting  room  and  spray  discreetly  behind  the  largest  pieces  of  furniture,  an  oak  side-  board,  a  red  plush  Victorian  couch,  and  along  the  inside  of  the  fireplace.  I  do  the  study,  spraying  the  Columbia  Encyclopedia,  he's  been  looking  up  the  Seven  Years'  War,  1756-63,  yellow  highlighting  there,  and  behind  the  forty-five-inch  RCA  television.  The  master  bedroom  requires  just  touches,  short  bursts  in  her  closet  which  must  avoid  the  two  dozen  pairs  of  shoes  there  and  in  his  closet  which  contains  six  to  eight  long  guns  in  canvas  cases.  Finally  I  spray  the  laundry  room  with  its  big  white  washer  and  dryer,  and  be-     hind  the  folding  table  stacked  with  sheets  and  towels  already  folded.  Who  folds?  I  surmise  that  she  folds.  Unless  one  of  the  older  children,  pressed  into  service,  folds.  In  my  experience  they  are  unlikely  to  fold.  Maybe  the  au  pair.  Finished,  I  tear  a  properly  made  out  receipt  from  my  receipt  book  and  present  it  to  the  young  wife.  She  scrib-  bles  her  name  in  the  appropriate  space  and  hands  it  back  to  me.  The  house  now  stinks  quite  palpably  but  I  know  and  she  knows  that  the  stench  will  dissipate  in  two  to  four  hours.  The  young  wife  escorts  me  to  the  door,  and,  in  parting,  pins  a  silver  medal  on  my  chest  and  kisses  me  on  both  cheeks.  Pest  Control!  A-Yes,  one  could  fit  in  in  that  way.  It's  finally  a  matter,  perhaps,  of  fit.  Appropriateness.  Fit  in  a  stately  or  sometimes  hectic  dance  with  nonfit.  What  we  have  to  worry  about.  Q-It  seems  to  me  that  we  have  quite  a  great  deal  to  worry  about.  Does  the  radish  worry  about  itself  in  this  way?  Yet  the  radish  is  a  living  thing.  Until  it's  cooked.  A-Grete  is  mad  for  radishes,  can't  get  enough.  I  like  frozen  Mex-  ican  dinners,  Patio,  I  have  them  for  breakfast,  the  freezer  is  stacked  with  them-  Q-Transcendence  is  possible.  A-Yes.  Q-Is  it  possible?  A-Not  out  of  the  question.  Q-Is  it  really  possible?  A-Yes.  Believe  me. "