HORSE  DREAMS  THAT  summer,  I  began  to  dream  about  the  horses.  My  friend  had  two  of  them,  a  Mor-  gan  and  a  quarter  horse,  and  to  me  they  were  giant,  prehistoric  in  propor-  tion.  I  fed  them  the  wet  grass  that  clogged  the  mower  when  I  mowed  the  lawn,  and  their  lips  on  my  palm  were  large  and  dry.  Really,  it's  no  wonder  I  began  to  dream  about  them.  When  they  thudded  across  the  field,  manes  flying,  it  was  definitely  mythic.  In  the  stalls  they  would  angle  their  heads  to  gaze  at  me  with  one  eye.  Their  noses  were  as  long  as  my  arm,  their  nostrils  as  big  as  my  mouth.  For  a  week  after  the  Morgan  mare  was  taken  away  to  train,  the  gelding  gave  long,  melodic  neighs,  as  if  sighing  or  calling  her  name  in  the  language  of  horses.  He  stood  alone  in  the  shadow  of  the  barn  and  looked  at  me  distantly  when  I  held  out  the  grass  clippings.  I  moved  onto  my  friend's  farm  near  the  end  of  May,  and  the  first  dream  came  on  one  of  those  cool  June  nights  that  start  out  clear  but  end  with  rain  just  before  dawn.  When  I  woke  up,  my  window  was  filled  with  white.  A  fog  had  settled  in  the  valley.  I  fell  asleep  again,  had  the  dream,  and  when  I  woke  up  the  fog  had  receded  to  the  windbreak,  making  the  trees  look  dis-  tant.  I  lay  there  and  recalled  a  water-  color  lesson  given  by  a  local  artist;  we  had  one  of  his  paintings  in  the  liv-  ing  room  downstairs.  Another  summer,  fifteen  years  before,  my  friend  and  I  had  been  adolescents  taking  his  class  together.  He  taught  us  tricks:  how  to  use  frisket  to  mask  the  white  and  make  a  real-looking  birch  tree,  how  to  tilt  the  wet  paper  sothat  the  sky  was  deeper  in  color  at  the  top,  true  to  art  but  not  true  to  life.  Like  a  layer  of  paint  on  a  tree,  music  was  a  layer  of  sound  over  the  sounds  of  the  wind,  the  animals,  the  trees.  Through  the  window  of  my  bedroom  I  could  watch  the  wind  as  well  as  hear  it,  higher  currents  pushing  clouds  across  the  sky  or  toward  us,  low  winds  mak-  ing  the  trees  rustle  even  when  they  seemed  motionless.  'The  wind  made  certain  openings  in  the  house  and  barns  behave  like  whistles  emitting  a  variety  of  low  tones.  And  since  the  garden  was  below  my  window-  bright-green  rows  between  mounds  of  hay  and  dark  unplanted  soil-at  times  I  had  to  lower  the  shade  to  avoid  being  distracted.  Often  I  gave  in  to  it  all;  on  sunny  days,  I  worked  on  the  lawn  or  in  the  flower  gardens,  and  I  was  al-  ways  the  one  who  watched  for  the  mail  and  went  outdoors  to  get  it,  whatever  the  weather.  I  would  make  two  piles  of  letters  on  the  kitchen  ta-  ble,  then  take  mine  upstairs  to  read  on  my  bed.  Despite  the  lure  of  the  out-  doors,  I  became  very  attached  to  that  room,  with  the  dark  paper  on  the  walls  and  the  four  posts  of  the  bed,  which  seemed  to  lean  in  over  me,  and  the  window  framing  my  view  of  the  land  and  the  weather.  The  dreams  of  the  horses  did  not  disturb  me.  Ironically,  it  was  mostly  the  gelding  I  dreamed  of-the  gelding  in  my  dreams.  The  dreams  were  sex-  ual,  of  course:  it  didn't  take  long  to  decipher  their  meaning.  But  none  of  that  was  necessary  or  pertinent.  Before  coming  to  the  farm,  I  had  dreamed  of  a  neighbor's  dog,  with  its  red  fur,  and,  before  that,  of  a  scene  I  had  caught  on  television,  of  one  man  making  another  lick  his  boot.  Sometimes  h  o  w  t  o  m  a  k  e  m  o  u  n  t  a  i  n  s  r  e  c  e  d  e  G  m  y  I  h  a  d  a  n  o  t  h  e  r  v  a  r  i  e  t  y  o  f  d  r  e  a  m  ,  i  n  t  o  t  h  e  d  i  s  t  a  n  c  e  .  T  h  a  t  w  a  s  g  m  \xe2\x80\x98  n  i  n  w  h  i  c  h  I  h  e  l  d  o  n  t  o  t  h  e  r  o  p  e  o  f  a  easy:  the  more  vivid  the  color,  the  closer  the  mountains  would  seem;  paler  meant  farther  away.  The  mois-  ture  and  density  of  the  air  provid-  eda  scientific  explanation  for  this,  but  the  trick  was  psychological  as  well,  since  what  we  see  more  clearly  we  assume  to  be  closer.  What  he  taught  us  was  true  to  life  but  somehow  not  true  to  art,  and  I  never  painted  in  watercol-  ors  again.  When  the  painter  died,  his  little  watercolors  of  an  imaginary  lake  quadrupled  in  value.  Living  on  the  farm,  in  the  summer  of  my  dreams,  I  found  myself  losing  interest  in  music,  which  had  always  been  important  to  me  in  the  past.  Per-  haps  this  was  because  music  seemed  tetherball  post  and  swung  around  and  around,  touching  down  as  if  at  the  corners  of  an  invisible  square.  In  that  dream,  it  was  Easter  and  the  lawn  was  littered  with  both  dyed  eggs  and  candy  eggs  wrapped  in  metallic  paper.  I  picked  up  one  of  the  candy  eggs-  it  was  larger  than  I'd  thought,  as  large  as  a  goose  egg-and  unwrapped  it  to  discover  that  the  egg  itself  was  not  chocolate  but  gel,  transparent  and  filled  with  some  clear  liquid.  When  I  thought  about  this  dream,  what  struck  me  was  that  both  the  metal-  lic  paper  and  the  shells  of  the  dyed  eggs  were  colorful,  which  settled  the  old  question  of  whether  or  not  one  dreamed  only  in  black-and-white.  Sometimes  I  woulddream  of  more  ordinary  things:  leaving  telephone  messages,  speaking  aloud,  eating  a  midnight  snack.  When  I  woke  up,  I  was  never  sure  if  these  things  had  happened  or  not,  but  it  didn't  seem  to  make  any  difference.  Once  I  dreamed  that  I  had  decided  to  go  to  law  school,  which  was  an  impractical  option  even  at  that  age,  but  the  dream  was  so  con-  vincing  that  after  I  woke  up  I  strode  around  feeling  happily  decisive  for  half  the  morning,  before  I  realized  that  the  source  of  my  happiness  was  only  a  dream.  This  is  a  story  I  liketo  tell  people  even  today,  because  it  points  out  that  one  side  of  me  would  like  to  be  more  successful,  more  socially  pro-  ductive.  I  always  end  by  noting  that  I  could  have  gone  to  law  school  if  I  had  wanted  to,  but  the  truth  is  that  I  nev-  er  had  any  real  desire  to  be  a  lawyer  or  to  suffer  through  three  more  years  of  classes  and  examinations.  THOUGH  my  friend  wanted  me  on  the  farm  more  for  company  than  help,  we  tried  to  divide  the  labor  equally,  so  the  upkeep  of  the  yard  fell  to  me.  Soon,  imageshaving  to  do  with  my  mowing  the  lawn  became  as  im-  portant  to  my  dreams  as  the  horses  were.  I  had  never  had  a  lawn  to  take  care  of  before,  and  had  always  said  that  it  seemed  to  me  that  the  mowing  of  a  lawn  was  another  oddment  of  civilization,  like  wearing  neckties  or  stockings,  or  shaving  legs  and  under-  arms.  If  one  does  not  want  grass  two  feet  high  in  one's  yard,  why  not  install  a  lower-growing  variety  of  plant?  In  some  parts  of  the  country,  lawns  are  covered  with  stones  or  shells,  or  seeded  with  some  sort  of  vine-something  in-  destructible,  like  kudzu-and  this  is  considered  as  attractive  as  a  mown  lawn  of  grass.  (I  admit,  I  have  seen  people  in  [REDACTED]  out  raking  their  stones,  but  somehow  that  seems  less  hopeless:  stones  don't  grow,  and  they  more  or  less  stay  put;  you  only  have  to  rake  them  once  a  month-perhaps  less.)  But  when  I  became  involved  with  our  lawn,  lawns  grew  to  be  something  of  an  obsession  with  me.  At  first,  I  would  jokingly  point  out  the  flaws  in  other  people's  yards;  then  I  actually  developed  an  interest  in  the  finer  points  of  trimming  and  weed  pre-  vention.  Our  lawn  was  very  large  and  complex,  with  a  good  many  shrubs.  There  were  plots  of  perennial  flowers  in  sundry  places,  a  half-dozen  old  ma-  ple  trees,  a  low-hanging  crab  apple,  and  a  blue  spruce  that  was  difficult  to  get  under.  Mowing  and  trimming  " b" combined  took  four  hours,  more  or  less,  depending  on  my  mood  and  the  weather,  and  while  I  was  doing  it  I  was  aware  of  almost  nothing  else  but  the  grass  I  walked  over,  the  variations  in  the  sound  of  the  engine  (I  could  tell  when  it  was  about  to  run  out  of  gas),  the  blades  of  the  clippers  and  the  stems  of  plants  between  them.  When  I  came  back  to  myself,  I  would  suddenly  re-  alize  that  I  was  hungry,  or  thirsty,  or  that  my  hand  was  blistered  again,  or  that  the  sun  had  burned  my  back  or  nose,  or  that  it  was  nearly  dark  out-  side.  Finished,  I  would  drag  a  chair  out  into  the  center  of  the  back  yard  or  sit  on  the  swing  on  the  front  porch,  drink  a  cold  beer,  and  look  at  my  handiwork.  When  people  visited,  I  drew  their  attention  to  the  yard,  and  saw  that  trimming  in  particular  was  a  thankless  task,  since  nobody  noticed  you'd  done  it,  while  everyone  did  if  you  hadn't.  Still,  I  felt  satisfied.  It  was  the  only  time  in  my  life  that  I  regu-  larly  went  to  bed  with  dirt  under  my  fingernails.    In  my  dreams,  though,  the  mowing  and  trimming  were  secondary.  Lawns  themselves  became  the  focus-vast  lawns  cut  short,  smooth  over  rolling  hills,  almost  velvetlike  in  texture  and  shine.  In  the  tetherball  dream,  the  eggs  rested  on  nicely  cropped  grass,  and  though  I  never  really  saw  it  I  re-  member  thinking,  in  that  dream,  that  the  grass  around  the  tetherball  post  was  neatly  trimmed.  In  the  dreams  with  the  horses,  I  always  saw  the  grass  just  on  the  edge  of  the  paddock.  It  was  eaten  short  and  never  needed  to  be  mowed.  In  my  dreams,  it  looked  more  like  moss  than  grass,  and  in  reality  as  well,  though  I  never  saw  thehorses  with  their  noses  that  low,  stuck  under  the  fence  to  eat  the  grass.  In  the  horse  dreams  seeing  this  grass  was  almost  the  only  preamble.  Usu-  ally,  my  dream  made  me  feel  as  if  I  had  been  reduced  to  a  pair  of  eyes,  floating  low  over  the  ground.  I  recog-  nized  the  surfaces,  and  felt  myself  get-  ting  closer  to  the  paddock,  then  slip-  ping  through  the  boards  of  the  fence.  One  of  the  boards  had  fallen  sideways  and  made  a  triangle  with  the  other,  and  I  always  went  through  this  hole.  Then  the  hoof-pocked  mud  of  the  paddock  itself,  and  the  breath  of  the  horse.  It  was  the  gelding,  but  he  was  not  a  gelding.  These  dreams  went  on  for  some  years,  until  long  after  I  was  married  and  had  children,  long  after  that  sum-  mer  on  the  farm,  that  summer  of  weather  and  sound.  The  last  time  I  dreamed  of  the  gelding,  we  were  liv-  ing  in  [REDACTED],  in  a  large  apart-  ment  building.  Although  it  was  two  blocks  away,  the  freeway,  with  its  hundreds  of  speeding  cars,  was  more  than  audible  over  the  air-conditioner.  I  remarked  once  at  dinner  that  the  sound  reminded  me  of  mowing  the  lawn,  and  one  of  our  guests,  paus-  ing  between  sips  of  coffee,  asked  me  when  I  had  ever  mowed  a  lawn.  In  what  life?  And  I  myself  found  it  hard  to  believe-hard  to  know  what  was  memory,  and  what  dream. "