"JANUS  HE  bowl  was  perfect.  Perhaps  it  was  not  what  you'd  select  if  you  faced  a  shelf  of  bowls,  and  not  the  sort  of  thing  that  would  inevitably  attract  a  lot  of  attention  at  a  crafts  fair,  yet  it  had  real  presence.  It  was  as  predictably  admired  as  a  mutt  who  has  no  reason  to  suspect  he  might  be  funny.  Just  such  a  dog,  in  fact,  was  often  brought  out  (and  in)  along  with  the  bowl.  Andrea  was  a  real-estate  agent,  and  when  she  thought  that  some  prospec-  tive  buyers  might  be  dog-lovers,  she  would  drop  off  her  dog  at  the  same  time  she  placed  the  bowl  in  the  house  that  was  up  for  sale.  She  would  put  a  dish  of  water  in  the  kitchen  for  Mondo,  take  his  squeaking  plastic  frog  out  of  her  purse  and  drop  it  on  the  floor.  He  would  pounce  delightedly,  just  as  he  did  every  day  at  home,  bat-  ting  around  his  favorite  toy.  The  bowl  usually  sat  on  a  coffee  table,  though  recently  she  had  displayed  it  on  top  of  a  pine  blanket  chest  and  on  a  lacquered  table.  It  was  once  placed  on  a  cherry  table  beneath  a  Bonnard  still-life,  where  it  held  its  own.  Everyone  who  has  purchased  a  house  or  who  has  wanted  to  sell  a  house  must  be  familiar  with  some  of  the  tricks  used  to  convince  a  buyer  that  the  house  is  quite  special:  a  fire  in  the  fireplace  in  early  evening;  jonquils  in  a  pitcher  on  the  kitchen  counter,  where  no  one  ordinarily  has  space  to  put  flowers;  perhaps  the  slight  aroma  of  spring,  made  by  a  single  drop  of  scent  vaporizing  from  a  lamp  bulb.  The  wonderful  thing  about  the  bow!,  Andrea  thought,  was  that  it  was  both  subtle  and  noticeable-a  paradox  of  a  bowl.  Its  glaze  was  the  color  of  cream  and  seemed  to  glow  no  matter  what  light  it  was  placed  in.  There  were  a  few  bits  of  color  in  it-tiny  geometric  flashes-and  some  of  these  were  tinged  with  flecks  of  silver.  They  were  as  mysterious  as  cells  seen  under  a  microscope;  it  was  difficult  not  to  study  them,  because  they  shimmered,  flashing  for  a  split  second,  and  then  resumed  their  shape.  Something  about  the  colors  and  their  random  placement  suggested  motion.  People  who  liked  country  furniture  always  commented  on  the  bowl,  but  then  it  turned  out  that  people  who  felt  comfortable  with  Biedermeier  loved  it  just  as  much.  But  the  bow!  was  not  at  all  ostentatious,  or  even  so  noticeable  that  anyone  would  suspect  that  it  had  been  put  inplace  deliberately.  They  might  notice  the  height  of  the  ceiling  on  first  enteringa  room,  and  only  when  their  eye  moved  down  from  that,  or  away  from  the  refraction  of  sunlight  on  a  pale  wall,  would  they  see  the  bowl.  Then  they  would  go  immediately  to  it  and  com-  ment.  Yet  they  always  faltered  when  they  tried  to  say  something.  Perhaps  it  was  because  they  were  in  the  house  for  a  serious  reason,  not  to  notice  some  object.  Once,  Andrea  got  a  call  from  a  woman  who  had  not  put  in  an  offer  on  a  house  she  had  shown  her.  That  bowl,  she  said-would  it  be  possible  to  find  out  where  the  owners  had  bought  that  beautiful  bowl?  Andrea  pretend-  ed  that  she  did  not  know  what  the  woman  was  referring  to.  A  bowl,  somewhere  in  the  house?  Oh,  on  a  table  under  the  window.  Yes,  she  would  ask,  of  course.  She  let  acouple  of  days  pass,  then  called  back  to  say  that  the  bowl  had  been  a  present  and  the  people  did  not  know  where  it  had  been  purchased.  When  the  bowl  was  not  being  taken  from  house  to  house,  it  sat  on  An-  drea's  coffee  table  at  home.  She  didn't  keep  it  carefully  wrapped  (although  she  transported  it  that  way,  in  a  box);  she  kept  it  on  the  table,  because  she  liked  tosee  it.  It  was  large  enough  so  that  it  didn't  seem  fragile,  or  particu-  larly  vulnerable  if  anyone  sideswiped  the  table  or  Mondo  blundered  into  it  at  play.  She  had  asked  her  husband  to  please  not  drop  his  house  key  in  it.  It  was  meant  to  be  empty.  When  her  husband  first  noticed  the  bow!,  he  had  peered  into  it  and  smiled  briefly.  He  always  urged  her  to  buy  thingsshe  liked.  In  recent  years,  both  of  them  had  acquired  many  things  to  make  up  for  all  the  lean  years  when  they  were  graduate  students,  but  now     33  that  they  had  been  comfortable  for  quite  a  while,  the  pleasure  of  new  possessions  dwindled.  Her  husband  had  pronounced  the  bowl  &quot;pretty,&quot;  and  he  had  turned  away  without  pick-  ing  it  up  to  examine  it.  He  had  no  more  interest  in  the  bowl  than  she  had  in  his  new  Leica.  She  was  sure  that  the  bowl  brought  her  luck.  Bids  were  often  put  in  on  houses  where  she  had  displayed  the  bowl.  Sometimes  the  owners,  who  were  always  asked  to  be  away  or  to  step  outside  when  the  house  was  being  shown,  didn't  even  know  that  the  bowl  had  been  in  their  house.  Once-she  could  not  imagine  how  left  it  behind,  and  then  she  was  so  afraid  that  something  might  have  happened  to  it  that  she  rushed  back  to  the  house  and  sighed  with  relief  when  the  woman  owner  opened  the  door.  The  bowl,  Andrea  explained-she  had  purchased  a  bowl  and  set  it  on  the  chest  for  safekeeping  while  she  toured  the  house  with  the  prospective  buyers,  and  she  .  .  .  She  felt  like  rushing  past  the  frowning  woman  and  seizing  her  bow!.  The  owner  stepped  aside,  and  it  was  only  when  Andrea  ran  to  the  chestthat  the  lady  glanced  at  her  a  little  strangely.  In  the  few  seconds  before  Andrea  picked  up  the  bowl,  she  realized  that  the  owner  must  have  just  seen  that  it  had  been  perfectly  placed,  that  the  sunlight  struck  the  bluer  part  of  it.  Her  pitcher  had  been  moved  to  the  far  side  of  the  chest,  and  the  bowl  predominated.  All  the  way  home,  An-  drea  wondered  how  she  could  have  left  the  bowl  behind.  It  was  like  leaving  a  friend  at  an  outing-just  walk-  ing  off.  Sometimes  there  were  stories  in  the  paper  about  families  forgetting  a  child  somewhere  and  driving  to  the  next  city.  Andrea  had  only  gone  a  mile  down  the  road  before  she  remem-  bered.  In  time,  she  dreamed  of  the  bowl.  Twice,  in  a  waking  dream-early  in  the  morning,  between  sleep  and  a  last  nap  before  rising-she  had  a  clear  vi-  sion  of  it.  It  came  into  sharp  focus  and  startled  her  for  a  moment-the  same  bow!  she  looked  at  every  day.  SHE  had  a  very  profitable  year  sell-  ing  real  estate.  Word  spread,  and  she  had  more  clients  than  she  felt  com-  fortable  with.  She  had  the  foolish  thought  that  if  only  the  bowl  were  an  animate  object  she  could  thank  it.  There  were  times  when  she  wanted  to  talk  to  her  husband  about  the  bowl.  He  " b" was  a  stockbroker,  and  sometimes  told  people  that  he  was  fortunate  to  be  married  to  a  womanwho  had  such  a  fine  aesthetic  sense  and  yet  could  also  function  in  the  real  world.  They  were  a  lot  alike,  really-they  had  agreed  on  that.  They  were  both  quiet  peo-  ple-reflective,  slow  to  make  value  judgments,  but  almost  intractable  once  they  had  come  to  a  conclusion.  They  both  liked  details,  but  while  ironies  attracted  her,  he  was  more  impatient  and  dismissive  when  matters  became  many-sided  or  unclear.  But  they  both  knew  this;  it  was  the  kind  of  thing  they  could  talk  about  when  they  were  alone  in  the  car  together,  coming  home  from  a  party  or  after  a  weekend  with  friends.  But  she  never  talked  to  him  about  the  bowl.  When  they  were  at  dinner,  exchanging  their  news  of  the  day,  or  while  they  lay  in  bed  at  night  listening  to  the  stereo  and  mur-  muring  sleepy  disconnections,  she  was  often  tempted  to  come  right  out  and  say  that  she  thought  that  the  bowl  in  the  living  room,  the  cream-colored  bowl,  was  responsible  for  her  success.  But  she  didn't  say  it.  She  couldn't  begin  to  explain  it.  Sometimes  in  the  morning,  she  would  look  at  him  and  feel  guilty  that  she  had  such  a  constant  secret.  Could  it  be  that  she  had  some  deeper  connection  with  the  bowl-a  relation-  ship  of  some  kind?  She  corrected  her  thinking:  how  could  she  imagine  such  a  thing,  when  she  was  a  human  being  and  it  was  a  bowl?  It  was  ridiculous.  Just  think  of  how  people  lived  togeth-  er  and  loved  each  other  ...  But  was  that  always  so  clear,  always  a  relationship?  She  was  confused  by  these  thoughts,  but  they  remained  in  her  mind.  There  was  something  with-  in  her  now,  something  real,  that  she  never  talked  about.  The  bowl  was  a  mystery,  even  to     her.  It  was  frustrating,  because  her  involvement  with  the  bow!  contained  a  steady  sense  of  unrequited  good  for-  tune;  it  would  have  been  easier  to  re-  spond  if  some  sort  of  demand  were  made  in  return.  But  that  only  hap-  pened  in  fairy  tales.  The  bowl  was  just  a  bowl.  She  did  not  believe  that  for  one  second.  What  she  believed  was  that  it  was  something  she  loved.  In  the  past,  she  had  sometimes  talked  to  her  husband  about  a  new  property  she  was  about  to  buy  or  sell-  confiding  some  clever  strategy  she  had  devised  to  persuade  owners  who  seemed  ready  to  sell.  Now  she  stopped  doing  that,  for  all  her  strategies  in-  volved  the  bowl.  She  became  more  de-  liberate  with  the  bowl,  and  more  pos-  sessive.  She  put  it  in  houses  only  when  no  one  was  there,  and  removed  it  when  she  left  the  house.  Instead  of  just  moving  a  pitcher  or  a  dish,  she  would  remove  all  the  other  objects  from  a  table.  She  had  to  force  herself  to  han-  dle  them  carefully,  because  she  didn't  really  care  about  them.  She  just  wanted  them  out  of  sight.  She  wondered  how  the  situation  would  end.  As  with  a  lover,  there  was  no  exact  scenario  of  how  matters  " b"would  come  to  a  close.  Anxiety  became  the  operative  force.  It  would  be  irrelevant  if  the  lover  rushed  into  someone  else's  arms,  or  wrote  her  a  note  and  departed  to  an-  other  city.  The  horror  was  the  possibility  of  the  disappearance.  That  was  what  mat-  tered.  She  would  get  up  at  night  and  look  at  the  bowl.  It  never  occurred  to  her  that  she  might  break  it.  She  washed  and  dried  it  without  anxiety,  and  she  moved  it  often,  from  coffee  table  to  ma-  hogany  corner  table  or  wherever,  without  fearing  an  accident.  It  was  clear  that  she  would  not  be  the  one  who  would  do  any-  thing  to  the  bowl.  The  bowl  was  only  handled  by  her,  set  safely  on  one  surface  or  another;  it  was  not  very  likely  that  anyone  would  break  it.  A  bowl  was  a  poor  conductor  of  electricity:  it  would  not  be  hit  by  light-  ning.  Yet  the  idea  of  damage  persisted.  She  did  not  think  beyond  that-to  what  her  life  would  be  with-  outthe  bowl.  She  only  continued  to  fear  that  some  accident  would  happen.  Why  not,  in  a  world  where  people  set  plants  where  they  did  not  belong,  so  that  visitors  touring  a  house  would  be  fooled  into  thinking  that  dark  corners  got  sunlight-a  world  full  of  tricks?  She  had  first  seen  the  bowl  several  years  earlier,  at  a  crafts  fair  she  had  visited  half  in  secret,  with  her  lover.  He  had  urged  her  to  buy  the  bowl.  She  didn't  reed  any  more  things,  she  told  him.  But  she  had  been  drawn  to  the  bowl,  and  they  had  lingered  near  it.  Then  she  went  on  to  the  next  booth,  and  he  came  up  behind  her,  tapping  the  rim  against  her  shoulder  as  she  ran  her  fingers  over  a  wood  carving.  &quot;'You're  still  insisting  that  I  buy  that?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;No,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  bought  it  for  you.&quot;  He  had  bought  her  otherthings  before  this-things  she  liked  more,  at  first-the  child's  ebony-  and-turquoise  ring  that  fitted  her  little  finger;  the  wooden  box,  long  and  thin,  beautifully  dovetailed,  that  she  used  to  hold  paper  clips;  the  soft  gray  sweater  with  a  pouch  pocket.  It  was  his  idea  that  when  he  could  not  be  there  to  hold  her  hand  she  could  hold  her  own  -clasp  her  hands  inside  the  lone  pocket  that  stretched  across  the  front.  But  in  time  she  became  more  attached  to  the  bowl  than  to  any  of  his  other  presents.  She  triedto  talk  herself  out  of  it.  She  owned  other  things  that  were  more  striking  or  valuable.  It  wasn't  an  object  whose  beauty  jumped  out  at  you;a  lot  of  people  must  have  passed  it  by  before  the  two  of  them  saw  it  that  day.  Her  lover  had  said  that  she  was  always  too  slow  to  know  what  she  really  loved.  Why  continue  with  her  life  the  way  it  was?  Why  betwo-faced,  he  asked  her.  He  had  made  the  first  move  toward  her.  When  she  would  not  decide  in  his  favor,  would  not  change  her  life  and  come  to  him,  he  asked  her  what  made  her  think  she  could  have  it  both  ways.  And  thenhe  made  the  last  move  and  left.  It  was  a  decision  meant  to  break  her  will,  to  shatter  her  intransigent  ideas  about  honoring  previous  commitments.  Time  passed.  Alone  in  the  living  room  at  night,  she  often  looked  at  the  bow!  sitting  on  the  table,  still  and  safe,  unilluminated.  In  its  way,  it  was  per-  fect:  the  world  cut  in  half,  deep  and  smoothly  empty.  Near  the  rim,  even  in  dim  light,  theeye  moved  toward  one  small  flash  of  blue,  a  vanishing  point  on  the  horizon. "