THE  WEDDING  IN  THE  GARDEN  VER  since  Dervla  was  nine  the  E  people  of  the  hotel  had  fascinat-  ed  her.  Its  proprietor,  Mr.  Con-  greve,  wore  clothes  that  had  a  clerical  sombreness  about  them,  though  they  were  of  a  lighter  hue  than  Father  Mahony's  stern  black.  Mr.  Congreve  was  a  smiling  man  with  a  quiet  face,  apparently  not  in  the  least  put  out  by  reports  in  the  town  that  his  wife,  in  allying  herself  with  a  hotel  proprietor,  had  married  beneath  her.  Ladylike  and  elegant,  she  appeared  not  to  regret  her  choice.  Mrs.  Congreve  favored  in  her  dresses  a  distinctive  blend  of  greens  and  blues,  her  stylishness  combining  with  the  hotel  proprietor's  tranquil  presence  to  lend  the  couple  a  quality  that  was  unique  in  the  town.  Their  children,  two  girls  and  an  older  boy,  were  imbued  with  this  through  the  accident  of  their  birth,  and  so  were  different  from  the  town's  other  chil-  dren  in  ways  that  might  be  termed  superficial.  &quot;Breeding,&quot;  Dervla's  fa-  ther  used  to  say.  &quot;The  Congreves  have  great  breeding  in  them.&quot;  She  herself,  when  she  was  nine,  was  fair-haired  and  bony,  with  a  graze  always  healing  on  one  knee  or  the  other  becauseshe  had  a  way  of  trip-  ping  on  her  shoelaces.  &quot;Ah,  will  you  tie  up  those  things!&quot;  her  mother  used  to  shout  at  her:  her  mother,  big-faced  and  red,  blinking  through  the  steam  thatrose  from  a  bucket  of  water.  Her  brothers  and  sisters  had  all  left  the  house  in  Thomas  MacDonagh  Street  by  the  time  Dervla  was  nine:  they'd  left  the  town  and  the  district,  two  of  them  even  in  [REDACTED],  one  in  [REDACTED].  Dervla  was  more  than  just  the  baby  of  the  family;  she  was  an  afterthought,  catching  everyone  unawares,  born  when  her  mother  was  forty-two.  &quot;Chance  had  a  hand  in  that  one,&quot;  her  father  liked  tosay,  regardingher  af-  fectionately,  as  if  pleased  at  the  inter-  vention  of  fate.  Her  father  was  em-  ployed  by  O'Mara  the  builder.  Even  after  she  went  to  work  in  the  Royal  Hotel  and  came  to  know  the  family,  her  first  image  of  them  re-  mained:  the  Congreves  in  their  motor-  car-an  old  Renault,  as  she  afterward  Congreve's  family,  and  then  people  in  the  grocery  business  had  bought  it  and  had  not  lived  there-people  who  had  nothing  to  do  with  the  town,  who  were  not  well  known.  Mr.  Congreve  had  made  an  offer  with,  so  it  was  said,  his  wife's  money.  The  motorcar  in  the  sunlight  crept  down  Draper's  Street,  the  bell  of  St.  Peter's  Church  still  monotonously  chiming.  The  boy-no  older  than  Dervla  herself-wore  a  gray  flannel  suit,  the  girls  had  fawn-colored  coats  and  tiny  bows  in  their  pigtails.  The  motorcar  passed  from  view,  and  a  mo-  ment  later  the  bell  ceased  to  chime.  CHRISTOPHER  couldn't  remember  the  first  time  he'd  been  aware  of  her.  All  he  knew  was  that  she  worked  in  the  kitchen  of  the  hotel,  walking  out  from  the  town  every  day.  Playing  with  Molly  and  Margery  Jane  inthe  shrubberies  of  the  garden,  he  had  no-  ticed  now  and  again  a  solitary  figure  in  ablack  coat,  with  a  head  scarf.  He  didn't  know  her  name  or  what  her  face  was  like.  &quot;Count  toten,  Chris,&quot;  Margery  Jane  would  shrilly  insist.  \xc2\xabYou're  not  counting  to  ten!&quot;  The  girl  passed  through  the  yard  nearby,  a  child  as  they  were,  but  they  paid  her  no  attention.  A  yearor  so  later,  Mary,  the  elderly  maid  whose  particular  realm  was  the  dining  room,  instructed  her  in  the  clearing  of  a  table.  &quot;Dervla,&quot;  his  mother  said  when  the  older  waitress  had  led  her  away  with  cutlery  and  plates  piled  on  her  tray.  &quot;Her  name  is  Dervla.&quot;  After  that  she  was  always  in  the  dining  room  at  mealtimes.  It  was  then,  too,  that  she  began  to  come  to  the  hotel  on  a  bicycle,  her  day  longer  now,  arriving  before  break-  fast,  cycling  home  again  in  the  late  evening.  Christopher  didn't  know  where  she  lived,  had  never  once  no-  ticed  ThomasMacDonagh  Street  in     established,  its  canvas  roof  folded  yrpm\xc2\xbb  back,  slowly  making  the  journey  to  the  {}{##  I4  Protestant  church  on  a  sunny  Sunday  \xc2\xa2  morning.  St.  Peter's  Church  was  at  oneend  of  the  town,  the  Royal  Hotel  at  the  other,  It  had,  before  its  days  as  a  hotel,  apparently  been  owned  by  Mrs.     41  his  wanderings  about  the  town.  Return-  ing  from  boarding  school  in  [REDACTED],  he  had  taken  to  going  for  walks  along  the  quay  of  the  river  where  the  sawmills  were,  in  the  lanes  behind  Brabazon's  Brewery,  out  into  the  fields.  Sometimes  a  dog  from  the  cot-  tages  near  the  electricity  plant  would  follow  him  through  darkening  after-  noons  or  spitting  rain,  lingering  with  him  whilehe  gazed  into  the  windows  of  the  shops  that  sold  fruit  and  confec-  tionery.  But  it  was  the  hotel,  not  the  town,  that  was  Christopher's  world:  white  building  set  back  a  little  from  the  street,  pillars  and  steps  prefacing  its  entrance  doors.  Its  plainness  was  deco-  rated  with  a  yellow  AA  sign  and  a  blue  &quot;R.I.A.C.&quot;  one;  in  spring  tulips  bloomed  in  window  boxes  on  the  downstairs  windowsills.  The  words  &quot;Rovar  HoTtEL&quot;  were  painted  in  black  on  its  white  facade  and  repeated  in  smaller  letters  above  the  pillared  porch.  The  dining  room  had  glass  swing-  ing  doors  and  twelve  tables  with  white  tablecloths,  always  set  for  dinner.  The  family  occupied  a  corner  table  between  the  fire  and  the  dumbwaiter,  with  its  array  of  silver-plated  sugar  castors  and  salt  and  pepper  and  mustard  contain-  ers,  mint  sauce  in  cut-glass  jugs,  and  Worcestershire  sauce  and  jam  and  marmalade.  The  first-floor  landing-  a  sideboard  stretching  along  one  wall,  leather  armchairs  by  the  windows,  oc-  casional  tables  piled  with  magazines,  a  gold-framed  mirror  above  the  fireplace  -was  the  heart  ofthe  hotel.  Off  it  were  the  best  bedrooms  and  a  billiard  room  where  the  Y.M.C.A.  held  a  competition  every  March;  above  it,  off  a  less  impressive  landing,  were  the  smaller,  colder  bedrooms  and  un-  carpeted  stairs  leading  to  the  attics.  They  were  mainly  senior  commer-  cial  travellers  who  stayed  at  the  Royal,  and  bank  inspectors.  Once  in  a  while  there  was  an  English  coupleora  cou-  ple  from  the  [REDACTED],  touring  on  their  honeymoon.  Artie  the  boots,  gray-  haired  but  still  in  his  forties,  worked  in  the  garden  and  the  yard,  disposed  of  empty  bottles  from  the  bar,  and  often  served  there.  Old  Mary  served  there,  too,  and  at  a  busy  time,  which  only  rarely  occurred,  Mrs.  O'Connor  would  come  up  from  the  kitchen  to  assist.  Dr.  Molloy  drank  at  the  Royal,  and  Hogarty  the  surveyor,  and  the  agent  at  the  Bank  of  Ireland,  Mr.  Madden.  The  bar  was  a  quiet  place,  " b"   though,  compared  with  the  town's  public  houses;  voices  were  never  raised.  The  main  hall  of  the  hotel  was  quiet  also,  except  for  the  ticking  of  the  grandfather  clock  and  its  chiming.  There  was  a  particular  smell,  of  polish  and  old  soup,  and  porter  from  the  bar.  A  barometer  hung  beneath  a  salmon  in  a  glass  case,  notices  of  point-to-point  races  and  the  [REDACTED]  Spring  Show  and  the  Horse  Show  hung  from  hooks  among  colored  prints  of  Punchestown.  The  wooden  floor  was  covered  almost  completely  with  faded  rugs,  and  the  upper  half  of  the  door  to  the  bar  was  composed  of  frosted  glass  with  abor-  der  of  shamrocks.  There  were  plants  in  brass  pots  on  either  side  of  a  wide  staircase  with  a  greenish  carpet,  threadbare  in  parts.  &quot;Your  inheritance  one  day,&quot;  Chris-  topher's  father  said.  IT  was  very  grand,  Dervla  consid-  ered,  to  have  your  initials  on  a  green  trunk  and  on  a  wooden  box  with  metal  brackets  fixed  to  its  edges.  These  containers  stood  in  the  back  hall,  with  a  suitcase,  at  the  beginning  of  each  term,  before  they  were  taken  to  the  railway  station.  They  stood  there  again  on  Christopher's  first  day  back  from  school,  before  Artie  helped  him  to  carry  them  upstairs.  He  always  ar-  rived  in  the  evening,  sometimes  as  late  as  seven  o'clock  but  usually  about  half  past  five.  In  the  dining  room  when  the  family  had  supper  he  would  say  he  was  famished  and  tell  his  sisters  how  dis-  graceful  the  food  at  the  school  was,  the  turnips  only  half  mashed,  the  po-  tatoes  with  bits  of  clay  still  clinging  to  their  skins,  and  a  custard  pud-  ding  called  Yellow  Peril.  His  moth-  er,  laughing  at  him,  would  say  he  shouldn't  exaggerate,  and  his  father  would  ask  him  about  the  rugby  he  had  played,  or  the  cricket.  &quot;Like  the  game  of  tennis  it  would  be,&quot;  Artie  told  her  when  Dervla  asked  him  what  cricket  was.  She  imagined  what  she  heard  described:  a  big  stone  house  with  a  curving  avenue,  and  bells  always  ring-  ing,  and  morning  assemblies,  and  the  march  through  cloisters  to  the  chapel.  She  imagined  the  boys  in  their  gray  suits  kneeling  down  to  say  their  prayers,  and  the  ice  on  the  inside  of  the  windows  on  cold  days.  The  chem-  istry  master  had  blown  his  hair  off;  she  thought  of  Mr.  Jerety,  who  made  up  the  prescriptions  in  the  Medical  Hall,  who  had  no  hair,  either,  except  for  a  little  at  the  sides  of  his  head.  Dervla  managed  the  dining  room  on  her  own  now.  Mary  had  become  too  rheumaticky  to  make  the  journey  at  any  speed  from  the  kitchen  and  had  found  it  difficult  to  lift  the  heavier  plates  from  the  table.  She  helped  Mrs.  O'Connor  with  the  baking  instead,  kneading  dough  on  the  marble  slab  at  the  side  table  in  the  kitchen,  making  pastry  and  preparing  vegetables.  In  the  dining  room  Dervla  was  swift  on  her  feet  and  could  stack  a  tray  with  dishes  and  plates  so  economically  that  two  journeys  became  one.  She  was  careful  at  listening  to  what  the  visitors  or-  dered  and  without  writing  anything  down  was  able  to  relay  the  message  to  the  kitchen.  The  family  were  never  given  a  choice.  FTEN  Christopher  found  him-  self  glancing  up  from  the  food  Dervla  placed  in  front  of  him  to  follow  with  his  eyes  her  progress  across  the  dining  room,  the  movement  of  her     hips  beneath  her  black  dress,  her  legs  cladin  stockings  that  were  black  also.  Once  he  addressed  her  in  the  back  yard.  He  spoke  softly,  just  behind  her  in  the  yard.  It  was  dark,  after  seven,  an  evening  in  early  March  when  a  bitter  wind  was  blowing.  &quot;I'll  walk  with  you,  Dervla,&quot;  he  said.  She  wheeled  her  bicycle  in  Old  Lane  and  they  walked  in  silence,  ex-  cept  that  once  he  remarked  upon  the  coldness  of  the  weather  and  she  said  she  disliked  rain  more.  When  they  reached  the  end  of  the  lane  he  went  one  way  and  she  the  other.  &quot;Hullo,  Dervla,&quot;  he  said  one  after-  noon  in  the  garden.  It  was  late  in  August.  He  was  lying  on  a  rug  among  the  hydrangeas,  reading.  She  had  passed  without  noticing  that  he  was  there;  she  returned  some  minutes  later  with  a  bunch  of  parsley.  It  was  then  that  he  addressed  her.  He  smiled,  try-  ing  to  find  a  different  intonation,  try-  ing  to  make  his  greeting  softer,  less  ordinary  than  usual.  He  wanted  her  to  sit  down  on  the  brown  checked  rug,  to  enjoy  the  sun  for  a  while,  but  of  course  that  was  impossible.  He  had  wanted  to  wheel  her  bicycle  for  her  that  evening,  as  he  would  have  done  had  she  been  another  girl-Hazel  Warren  or  Annie  Warren,  the  coal  merchant's  daugh-  ters,  or  a  girl  he'd  never  even  spoken  to,  someone's  cousin,  who  used  to  visit  the  town  every  Christmas.  But  it  hadn't  seemed  natural  in  any  way  at  all  to  wheel  the  bicycle  of  the  dining-  room  maid,  any  more  than  it  would  havebeen  to  ask  a  kitchen  maid  at  school  where  she  came  from  or  if  she  had  brothers  and  sisters.  &quot;Hullo,&quot;  she  said,  replying  to  his  greeting  in  the  garden.  She  passed  on  with  her  bunch  of  parsley,  seeming  not  " b"   to  be  in  a  hurry,  the  crisp  white  strings  of  her  apron  bobbing  as  she  walked.  N  her  bedroom  in  the  house  in  Thomas  MacDonagh  Street  she  thought  of  him  every  night  before  she  went  to  sleep.  She  sawhim  as  he  was  when  he  returned  from  his  boarding  school,  in  his  gray  long-trousered  suit,  a  green-and-white  striped  tie  knotted  into  the  gray  collar  of  his  shirt.  When  she  awoke  in  the  morning  she  thought  of  him  also,  the  first  person  to  share  the  day  with.  In  winter  she  lay  there  in  the  darkness,  but  in  summer  the  dawn  light  lit  the  picture  of  the  Virgin  above  the  door,  and  when  Dervla  felt  the  Virgin's  liquid  eyes  upon  her  she  prayed,  asking  the  Holy  Mother  for  all  sorts  of  things  she  afterward  felt  she  shouldn't  have  because  they  were  triv-  ial.  &quot;That  young  Carroll  has  an  eye  for  you,&quot;  her  father  said  once  or  twice,  drawing  her  attention  to  Buzzy  Car-  roll,  who  worked  in  Catigan's  hard-  ware,.  But  she  didn't  want  to  spend  Sunday  afternoons  walking  out  on  the  Ballydrim  Road  with  Buzzy  Carroll,  or  to  sit  with  his  arms  around  her  in  the  Excel  Cinema.  One  of  the  Chris-  tian  Brothers  had  first  called  him  Buzzy-something  to  dowith  the  way  his  hair  fluffed  about  his  head-  and  after  that  no  one  could  remember  what  Buzzy  Carroll's  real  name  was.  There  were  others  who  would  have  liked  to  go  out  with  her,  on  walks  or  to  the  pictures,  or  to  the  Tara  Dance  Hall  on  a  Friday  night.  There  was  Flynn,  who  worked  in  Maguire's  tim-  beryard,  and  Chappie  Broderick,  and  Butty  Delaney.  There  was  the  porter  at  the  auction  rooms,  who  had  some-  thing  the  matter  with  his  feett-the  toes  joined  together  in  such  a  peculiar  way  that  he  showed  them  to  people.  And  there  was  Streak  Dwyer.  &quot;You're  nothing  only  a  streak  of  woe,&quot;  the  same  Christian  Brother  had  years  ago  pronounced.  Streak  Dwyer  had  ever  since  retained  the  sobriquet,  serv-  ing  now  in  Clancy's  grocery,  sombre-  ly  weighing  flour  and  sugar.  She  wouldn't  have  cared  for  it  in  the  Excel  Cinema  with  Streak  Dwyer  any  more  than  shecared  for  the  idea  of  being  courted  by  a  manwho  showed  people  his  toes.  \xe2\x80\x9cD  ERVLA.&quot;  On  a  wet  afternoon,  a  Tuesday  in  September,  he  whispered  her  name  on  the  first-floor  landing.  He  put  his  arm  around  her,  and  she  was  frightened  lest  someone  should  come.  &quot;I'm  fond  of  you,  Derv-  12.&quot;  He  took  her  hand  and  led  her  up-  stairs  to  Room  14,  a  tiny  bedroom  that  was  only  used  when  the  hotel  was  full.  Both  of  them  were  shy,  and,  their  shy-  ness  evaporated  slowly.  He  kissed  her,  stroking  her  hair.  He  said  again  he  was  fond  of  her.  &quot;I'm  fond  of  you,  too,&quot;  she  whispered.  After  that  first  afternoon  they  met  often  to  embrace  in  Room  14.  They  would  marry,he  said  at  the  end  of  those  holidays;  they  would  live  in  the  hotel.  Dervla  could  hardly  believe  it  when  she  allowed  her  imagination  to  see  them  there,  just  like  his  parents.  Over  and  over  again  in  Room  14  the  afternoon  shadows  gathered  as  sun-  light  slipped  away;  they  whispered,  clinging  to  one  another,  the  warmth  of  their  bodies  becoming  a  single  warmth.  She  sat  huddled  on  his  knee,  holding  tightly  on  to  him  in  case  they  both  fell  off  the  rickety  bedroom  chair.  He  loved  the  curve  of  her  neck,  he  whispered,  and  her  soft  fair  hair,  her  lips  and  her  eyes.  He  loved  kissing  her  eyes.  &quot;Not  a  bad  fella  at  [REDACTED];  her  father  saidin  Thomas  MacDonagh  Street.  'Young  Carroll.&quot;  She  wanted  to  laugh  when  her  father  said  that,  won-  dering  what  on  earth  he'd  say  if  he  knew  about  Room  14.  He  would  prob-  ably  say  nothing;  in  silence  he  would  take  his  belt  to  her.  But  the  thought  of  his  doing  so  didn't  make  her  afraid.  &quot;Oh,  Dervla,  how  I  wish  the  time  would  hurry  up  and  pass!&quot;  Over  the  years  he  had  come  to  see  the  town  as  little  better  than  ahig-  gledy-piggledy  conglomeration  of  dwellings,  an  ugly  place  except  for  the  smallbridge  at  the  end  of  Mill  Street.  But  it  was  Dervla's  town,  and  it  was  his  own;  together  they  belonged  there.  He  saw  himself  in  middleage  walking  through  its  narrow  streets,  as  he  had  walked  during  his  childhood.  He  saw  himself  returning  to  the  hotel  and  go-  ing  at  once  to  embrace  the  wife  he  loved  with  a  passion  that  had  not  changed.  &quot;Oh,  Dervla,&quot;  hewhispered  in  Room  14.  &quot;Dervla,  I'm  so  fond  of  you.&quot;  &amp;  ELL,  now,  I  think  we  must  have  a  little  talk,&quot;  Mrs.  Con-  greve  said.  They  were  alone  in  the  dining  room;  Dervla  had  been  laying  the  ta-  bles  for  dinner.  When  Mrs.Congreve  spoke  she  felt  herself  reddening;  the  knives  and  forks  felt  suddenly  cold  in  her  hands.  &quot;Mr.  Congreve  and  I  are  disap-  pointed  that  this  has  happened.  It's  most  unfortunate.&quot;  Mrs.  Congreve  " b"44  stood  by  a  window,  looking  out  at  people  passing  on  the  street.  She  turned  and  smiled  a  lingering,  gra-  cious  smile.  She  was  wearing  one  of  her  green-and-blue  dresses,  a  flimsy,  delicate  garment  with  tiny  bluebut-  tons  and  a  stylishly  stiff  white  collar.  Her  dark  hair  was  coiled  silkily  about  her  head.  &quot;It  is  perhaps  difficult  for  you  to  understand,  Dervla,  and  certainly  it  is  unpleasant  for  me  to  say.  But  there  are  differences  between  youand  Christo-  pher,  and  they  cannot  be  overlooked  or  ignored.&quot;  Mrs.  Congreve  paused  and  again  looked  out  of  the  window,  slightly  drawing  the  net  curtain  aside.  &quot;Christopher  is  not  of  your  class,  Dervla.  He  is  not  of  your  religion.  You  are  a  maid  in  this  hotel.  You  have  betrayed  the  trust  that  Mr.  Congreve  and  I  placed  in  you.  I'm  putting  it  harshly,  Dervla,  but  there's  no  point  in  pretending.&quot;  Dervla  did  not  say  anything.  She  felt  sick  in  her  stomach.  She  knew  her  face  had  gone  pale.  &quot;Oh,  Christopher  has  done  wrong  also.  I  can  assure  you  we  are  aware  of  that.  We  are  disappointed  in  Christo-  pher,  but  we  think  it  better  to  close  the  matter  in  his  absence.  He  will  not  be  back  for  another  three  months  almost;  we  think  it  best  to  have  everything  finished  and  forgotten  by  then.  Mr.  Congreve  will  explain  to  Christo-  pher.&quot;  Again  there  was  the  gracious  smile.  No  shadow  of  displeasure  disrupted  the  beauty  of  Mrs.  Congreve's  fea-  tures.  She  might  have  been  talking  about  the  annual  point-to-point  din-  ner,  giving  instruction  about  how  the  tables  should  be  set.  &quot;Neither  Mr.  Congreve  nor  I  wish  to  dismiss  you,  Dervla.  If  we  did,  you  -and  we-would  have  to  explain  to  your  parents,  even  to  Father  Mahony,  I  suppose.  We  would  ask  you  to  help  us  to  avoid  all  this-by  writing  a  note  now,  to  Christopher,  at  school.  That,  then,  would  be  the  end  of  the  matter.&quot;  Dervla  mentioned  love.  Her  voice  was  weak,  without  substance,  and  seemingly  without  conviction.  Mrs.  Congreve  listened  patiently  and  then  replied  that  that  was  penny-fiction  talk.  &quot;We  want  to  get  married,  Ma'am.&quot;  Dervla  closed  her  eyes  beneath  the  effort  of  finding  the  courage  to  say  that.  The  palms  of  her  hands,  chilled  a  moment  ago,  were  warmly  moist  now.  &quot;That's  very  silly,  Dervla,&quot;  Mrs.  Congreve  saidin  the  same  calm  man-  ner.  &quot;I'm  surprised  you  should  be  so  silly.&quot;  &quot;I  love  him!&quot;  Dervla  cried.  Tears  ran  from  her  eyes  and,  she  felt  herself  seized  by  a  wildness  that  made  her  want  to  shriek  out  in  fury.  &quot;I  love  him!&quot;  she  cried  again.  There  was  a  silence  then,  except  for  Dervla's  sobbing.  She  found  a  hand-  kerchief  in  the  pocket  of  her  apron  and  wiped  her  eyes  and  nose  with  it.  In  such  silly  circumstances,  Mrs.  Con-  greve  said,  the  hotel  would  be  sold  and     -Sanipra  McPueErson  Christopher  would  inherit  nothing.  It  wasn't  right  that  a  little  thing  like  this  should  ruin  Christopher's  life.  &quot;Soyou  see,  you  must  go,  Dervla.  You  must  take  your  wages  up  to  the  end  of  the  month  and  go  this  afternoon.&quot;  The  tranquillity  of  Mrs.  Congreve's  manner  was  intensified  by  the  sadness  in  her  voice.  Again  she  offered  the  alternative:  &quot;Or  simply  write  a  few  lines  to  him,  and  we  shall  continue  in  the  hotel  as  though  nothing  had  hap-  pened.  It  is  possible,  you  know.  I  as-  sure  you  of  that,  my  dear.  I  can  actu-  ally  promise  you  that  you  will  not  be  asked  to  leave.&quot;  Miserably,  Dervla  asked  what  she  could  say  in  a  letter.  She  would  have  to  tell  lies,  She  wouldn't  know  how  to  explain.  &quot;No,  don't  tell  lies.  You've  always  '  been  a  sensible  girl,  Dervla.  Explain  that  what  happened  between  you  was  " b"for  children  only.  The  hotel,  even  now,  is  everything  to  Christopher.&quot;  N  Dervla's  tidy  convent  handwrit-  ing  the  letter  said  that  they  must  not  continue  to  meet  in  Room  14,  because  it  was  a  sin.  It  would  be  bestto  bring  everything  to  anend  now,  before  she  was  dismissed.  They  had  done  wrong,  but  at  least  they  could  avoid  the  worst  if  they  were  sensible  now.  It  was  so  chilly  a  letter  that  Chris-  topher  could  hardly  believe  what  it  so  very  clearly  stated.  Why  didshe  feel  this  now,  when  a  few  weeks  ago  they  had  sworn  to  love  one  another  for  as  long  as  they  lived?  Were  all  girls  as  fickle  and  as  strange?  Or  had  the  priests,  somehow,  got  at  her,  all  this  stuff  about  sin?  He  could  not  write  back.  His  hand-  writing  on  the  envelope  would  be  recognized  in  the  hotel,  and  he  did  not  know  her  address,  since  she  had  not  included  it  in  her  letter.  He  had  no  choicebut  to  wait,  and  as  days  and  then  weeks  went  by  his  bewilder-  ment  turned  to  anger.  It  was  stupid  that  she  should  suddenly  develop  these  scruples,  after  all  they'd  said  to  one  another.  The  love  he  continued  to  feel  for  her  became  tinged  with  doubt  and  with  resentment,  as  though  they'd  had  a  quarrel.  \xe2\x80\x9cNOW,  I  don't  want  to  say  any-  thing  more  about  this,&quot;hisfa-  ther  said  at  the  beginning  of  the  next  holidays.  &quot;But  it  doesn't  do,  you  know,  to  go  messing  about  with  the  maids.&quot;  &quot;It  wasn't  messing  about.&quot;  &quot;That  girl  was  very  upset,  Christo-  pher.&quot;  Three  months  ago  Christopher  would  have  said  that  he  wanted  to  marry  Dervla.  He  would  have  spoken  of  love.  But  his  father  had  managed  to  draw  him  aside  to  have  this  conversa-  tion  before  he'd  had  an  opportunity  even  to  see  her,  let  alone  speak  to  her.  &quot;It  would  be  hard  on  her  to  dismiss  her.  We  naturally  didn't  want  to  do  that.  We  want  the  girl  to  remain  here,  Christopher,  since  really  it's  a  bit  of  a  storm  in  a  teacup.&quot;  His  father  lit  a  cigarette  and  seemed  more  at  ease  once  he  had  made  that  pronouncement.  'There  was  a  lazier  look  about  his  face  than  there  had  been  a  moment  ago;  a  smile  drifted  over  his  lips.  &quot;Good  term?&quot;  he  said,  and  Christopher  nodded.  &quot;JS  it  the  priests,  Dervla?&quot;  They  stood  together  in  a  doorway  in  Old  Lane,  her  bicycle  propped  against     the  curb.  &quot;Did  the  priests  get  at  you&quot;&quot;  She  shook  her  head.  &quot;Did  my  mother  speak  to  you?&quot;  'Your  mother  only  said  a  few  things.&quot;  She  went  away,  wheeling  her  bicy-  cle  for  a  while  before  mounting  it.  He  watched  her,  not  feeling  as  miserable  as  when  her  letter  had  arrived,  for  during  the  months  that  had  passed  since  then  he  had  become  reconciled  to  the  loss  of  their  relationship:  between  the  lines  of  her  letter  there  had  been  a  finality.  He  returned  to  the  hotel  and  Artie  helped  him  to  carry  his  trunk  upstairs.  He  wished  that  none  of  it  had  ever  happened.  DERVLA  was  glad  he  made  no  fur-  ther  effort  to  talk  to  her,  but,  standing  between  courses  by  the  dumb-  waiter  in  the  dining  room,  she  often  wondered  what  he  was  thinking.  While  theothers  talked  he  was  at  first  affected  by  embarrassment,  because  at  mealtimes  in  the  past  there  had  been  the  thrill  of  glances  and  forbidden  smiles.  But  after  a  week  or  so  he  be-  came  less  quiet,  joining  in  the  family  conversation,  and  she  became  the  din-  ing-room  maid  again.  Yet  for  Dervla  the  moment  of  placing  his  food  in  front  of  him  was  as  poignant  as  ever  it  had  been,  and  in  her  private  moments  she  permitted  herself  the  luxury  of  dwelling  in  the  past.  In  her  bedroom  in  Thomas  MacDonagh  Street  she  closed  her  eyes  and  willed  into  her  conscious-  ness  the  afternoon  sunlight  of  Room  14.  Once  more  she  was  familiar  with  the  quickening  of  his  heart  and  the  cool  touch  of  his  hands.  Once  more  she  clung  to  him,  her  body  huddled  into  his  on  the  rickety  chair  in  the  corner,  the  faraway  cries  of  Molly  and  Margery  Jane  gently  disturbing  the  silence.  Dervla  did  not  experience  bitterness.  She  was  fortunate  that  the  Congreves  had  been  above  the  pettiness  of  dis-  missing  her,  and  when  she  prayed  she  gave  thanks  for  that.  When  more  time  had  gone  by  she  found  herself  able  to  confess  the  sinning  that  had  been  so  pleasurable  in  Room  14,  and  was  duly  " b"46  burdened  with  a  penance  for  both  the  misdemeanors  and  her  long  delay  in  confessing  them.  She  had  feared  to  lose  what  there  had  been  through  ex-  piation,  butthe  fear  had  been  ground-  less:  only  reality  had  been  lost.  Everything  was  easier  when  the  green  trunk  and  the  box  with  the  metal  brackets  stood  in  the  back  hall  at  the  beginning  of  another  term,  and  when  a  few  more  terms  had  come  and  gone  he  greeted  her  in  the  hotel  as  if  all  she  had  confessed  to  was  a  fantasy.  &quot;Did  my  mother  speak  to  you?&quot;  The  quiet  vehemence  there  had  been  in  his  voice  was  sweet  to  remember,  but  he  himself  would  naturally  wish  to  forget  it  now.  WO  summers  after  he  left  school  Dervla  noticed  signs  in  him  that  painfully  echoed  the  past.  An  Arch-  deacon's  daughter  sometimes  had  lunch  with  the  family.  Her  dark  hair  was  drawn  back  from  a  center  parting,  her  light-blue  eyes  lit  up  when  she  smiled.  A  dimple  came  and  went  in  one  cheek  only;  her  skin  was  like  the  porcelain  of  a  doll's  skin.  Often  in  the  dining  room  she  talked  about  her  childhood  in  the  seaside  backwater  where  once  she  had  lived.  Listening,  Christopher  was  entranced.  Dervla  cleared  away  the  dishes,  ex-  pertly  disposing  of  chop  bones  or  bits  of  left-behind  fat.  Mary  had  years  ago  shown  her  how  to  flick  the  table  refuse  onto  a  single  plate-a  different  one  from  the  plate  you  gathered  the  used  knives  and  forks  onto.  Afterward  she  watched  from  an  upstairs  window-  the  window,  in  fact,  of  Room  14.  The  Archdeacon's  daughter  sat  with  him  in  the  garden,  each  of  them  in  a  deck  chair,  laughing  and  conversing.  They  were  always  laughing:  the  Archdea-  con's  daughter  would  say  something  and  he  would  throw  his  head  back  with  appreciation  and  delight.  Long  before  the  engagement  was  announced  Dervla  knew  that  this  was  the  girl  who  was  going  to  take  her  place,  in  his  life  and  in  the  hotel.  N  the  middle  of  a  heat  wave  the  Archdeacon  conducted  the  service  in  St.  Peter's,  and  then  the  guests   made  their  way  to  the  garden  of  the  hotel.  Dervla  and  a  new  maid  with  spectacles  handed  round  glasses  of  champagne.  Artie  saw  to  it  that  people  had  chairs  to  sit  on  if  they  wished  to  sit.  The  Archdeacon's  daughter  wore  a  wedding  dress  that  had  a  faint  shade  of  blue  in  it,  and  a  Limerick  lace  veil.  She  was  kissed  by  people  in  the  garden;  she  smiled  while  helping  to  cut  the  wedding  cake.  Her  four  bridesmaids,  Molly  and  Margery  Jane  among  them,  kept  saying  she  looked  marvel-  lous.  Speeches  were  made  in  the  sunshine.  Dr.  Molloy  made  one  and  so  did  the  best  man,  Tom  Gouvernet,  and  Mr.  Congreve.  Dr.  Molloy  remembered  the  day  Christopher  was  born,  and  Mr.  Congreve  remembered  the  first  time  he'd  set  eyes  on  the  beauty  of  the  Archdeacon's  daughter,  and  Tom  Gouvernet  remembered  Christopher  at  school.  Christopher  said  he  was  the  lucky  man  and  kissed  the  Archdea-  con's  daughter  while  people  clapped  their  hands  with  delight.  Tom  Gouvernet  fell  backward  off  the  edge  of  a  raised  bed.  Chris-  topher's  mother  moved  among  the  guests  with  the  plump  wife  of  the  Archdeacon  and  the  Archdeacon  himself,  who  was  as  frail  as  a  stalk  of  straw.  In  his  easygoing  way,  Chris-  topher's  father  delight-  ed  in  the  excitement  of  a  party.  Mr.  Madden,  the  bank  agent,  was  there,  and  Hogarty  the  sur-  veyor,  and  an  insurance  man  who  happened  to  be  staying  at  the  hotel.  &quot;Thanks,  Dervla.&quot;  Taking  a  glass  from  her  tray,  Christopher  smiled  at  her,  because  for  ages  that  had  been  possible  again.  &quot;It's  a  lovely  wed-  ding,  sir.&quot;  He  looked  at  her  eyes,  and  was  aware  of  the  demanding  steadiness  of  her  gaze.  He  sensed  what  she  was  wonder-  ing  and  wondered  it  himself:  What  would  have  happened  if  she'd  been  asked  to  leave  the  hotel?  He  guessed  as  she  did:  They  would  have  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  shared  the  resentment  and  the  anger  that  both  of  them  had  separately  expe-  rienced;  defiantly  they  would  have  continued  to  meet  in  the  town;  she  would  have  accompanied  him  on  his  walks  out  into  the  country  and  the  fields.  There  would  have  been  talk  in  the  town  and  scenes  in  the  hotel.  They  would  have  drawn  closer  to  one  an-  other,  their  outraged  feelings  becom-  ing  an  element  in  the  forbidden  friendship.  In  the  end,  together,  they  would  have  left  the  hotel  and  the  town,  and  neither  of  them  would  be  standing  here  now.  You'll  be  getting  married  yourself  one  of  these  days,  Dervla.&quot;  &quot;Ah,  no,  no.&quot;  She  was  still  quite  pretty.  There  was  a  simplicity  about  her  freckled  features  that  was  pleasing;  her  soft  fair  hair  was  neat  beneath  hermaid's  white  cap.  But  she  was  not  beautiful.  Once,  not  knowing  much  about  it,  he  had  imagined  she  was.  It  was  something  less  palpable  that  distinguished  her.  &quot;Oh,  surely?  Surely,  Dervla?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  see  myselfgiving  up  the  hotel,  sir.  My  future's  here,  sir.&quot;  He  smiled  again  and  passed  on.  But  his  smile,  which  remained  whilehe  listened  to  a  story  of  Tom  Gouvernet's  about  the  hazards  to  be  encountered  on  a  honeymoon,  was  uneasy.  An  echo  of  the  eyesthat  had  gazed  so  steadily  remainedwith  him,  as  didthe  refer-  ence  she  had  made  to  her  future.  That  she  had  not  been  turned  out  of  the  ho-  tel  had  seemed  something  to  be  proud  of  at  the  time:  a  crudity  had  been  avoided.  But  while  Tom  Gouvernet's  lowered  voice  continued  he  found  himself  wishing  she  had  been.  She  would  indeed  not  ever  marry,  her  eyes  had  stated;  she  would  not  wish  to.  A  hand  of  his  wife's  slipped  into  one  of  his;  the  voice  of  Tom  Gouvernet  ceased.  The  hand  was  asdelicate  as  the  petal  of  a  flower,  so  tiny  thatinvol-  untarily  he  lifted  it  to  his  lips.  Had  Dervla  seen,  he  wondered,  and  he  looked  through  the  crowd  for  a  glimpse  of  her  but  could  not  seeher.  Hogarty  the  surveyor  was  doing  a  trick  with  a  handkerchief,  entertaining  the  coal  merchant's  daughters.  Mr.  Madden  was  telling  one  ofhis  stories.  &quot;Ah,  he's  definitely  the  lucky  man,&quot;  Tom  Gouvernet  said,  playfully  wink-  ing  at  the  bride.  &quot;But  when  you  get  tired  of  him,  you  know  who  to  turn  to.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  indeed  I  do,  Tom.&quot;  In  the  far  distance  Dervla  appeared,  hurrying  from  the  hotel  with  a  freshly  laden  tray.  Christopher  watched  her,  while  the  banter  continued  between  bride  and  best  man.  &quot;But  I  won't  become  tired  of  him,&quot;  she  was  saying,  smiling  at  Tom  Gouvernet.  &quot;He's  actually  quite  nice,  you  know.&quot;  He  should  have  told  her  about  Derv-  la.  If  he  told  her  now  she  would  want  Dervla  to  go;  any  wife  would,  in  per-  fect  reasonableness.  Some  excuse  could  be  found,  she  would  insist,  for  why  should  she  be  expected  to  understand  that  a  promise  made  to  a  dining-room  maid  must  be  honored  because  that  was  the  family  way?  Across  the  garden  the  Archdeacon  lifted  a  glass  from  Dervla's  tray.  He  was  still  in  the  com-  pany  of  his  plump  wife  and  Christo-  pher's  mother.  They,  too,  took  more  champagne,  and  then  Dervla  walked  toward  where  Christopher  was  stand-  ing  with  his  bride  and  hisbest  man.  She  moved  quickly  through  the  crowd,  not  offering  her  tray  of  glasses  to  the  guests  she  passed,  intent  upon  her  des-  tination.     &quot;Thank  you,  Dervla,&quot;  his  wife  of  an  hour  said.  &quot;I  think  Mr.  Hogarty,&quot;  he  said  himself,  &quot;could  do  with  more  cham-  pagne.&quot;  He  watched  her  walking  away  and  was  left  again  with  the  insistence  in  her  eyes.  For  all  his  life  he  would  daily  look  upon  it,  but  no  words  would  con-  vey  her  undramatic  revenge,  because  the  right  to  speak,  once  his  gift  to  her,  had  been  taken  away.  Her  gift  to  him,  heldover  until  his  wedding  day,  was  that  afternoon  shadows  would  gather  forever  in  Room  14,  while  she  kept  faith. "