A PORTRAIT  OF  THE  ARTIST  AS  A  YOUNG  CALIFORNIAN  NCE  upon  a  time  and  a  very  O  good  time  it  was  there  was  a  little  boy  named  George  who  wanted  to  learn  how  to  read  and  speak  three  languages  before  he  was  five  and  learn  how  to  play  the  piano  and  the  violin  and  tennis,  and  he  also  wanted  to  become  literate  at  the  computer  and  learn  how  to  eat  a  lot  of  roughage  and  exercise  sensibly  and  experience  excel-  lence.  His  father  told  him  that  story.  His  father  had  a  very  good  and  lasting  tan.  He  was  little  George.  And  he  was  the  one  in  the  story.  He  was  the  one  who  experienced  excellence.  He  knew  that  song.  It  was  his  song.  Suzuki  violin  and  French  lessonsat  three  What  a  nicens  little  baby  this  Geor-  gie  will  be.  Daddy  was  older  than  Mommy.  Mommy  has  changed  her  face  three  times  and  she  will  keep  doing  that  because  she  wants  to  be  the  best  me  that  she  can.  Tra  la  lalala  Tra  la  la  lala  Flatten  your  stomach.  It  was  very  important  to  have  a  flat  stomach.  It  made  you  a  much  better  me.  I  was  feeling  bogus.  I  was  mega,  but  not  mega  enough  for  the  job.  And  I  was  a  little  amped  if  you  want  to  know  the  truth  becausea  little  earlier  I  was  probably  a  pooh  pirate,  and  I'm  not.  I'm  a  breeder,  nothing  but.  I'm  not  steadfast,  but  show  me  a  tight  little  unit  and  I'll  shred  her.  So  when  I  was  first  a  product  of  a  relationship,  I  was  imposing  right  from  the  first  go.  I  mean  when  I  was  a  wee  squid  it  was  Biafra  and  I  had  to  crash  with  my  little  sister,  but  that  was  cool.  I  got  to  scope  out  babes  without  getting  haired.  So  tell  me  I'm  a  zisker  and  I'll  tell  you  you're  in  the  soapbox  derby  for  whales.  My  sister  if  you  must  know  is  as  gnarly  as  they  come.  That  bwana  was  fresh.  Munga.  I'm  not  a  reknob  and  I  know  the  program.  I  jam  on  the  taboos,  but  my  sister  was  rad.  Thrashmatic.  So  we're  in  the  same  rack  and  I  figure  she's  going  to  say  the  whole  prono  pups  just  totally  grikes,  but  I'm  not  far  along  in  the  program  and  I  can  still  remember  my  tail.  So  I'm  thinking  I'm  either  going  to  throw  darts  atthis  unit  or  get  chinese-  eyed.  I  scope  right  away  that  shedoes  not  groove  on  the  Arthropoda,  and  she  hairs  in  their  presence.  She  would  not  be  freaked  by  the  Mexican  Air  Force,  but  she  spins  out  at  the  sight  of  the  lit-  tle  furry  ones.  So  right  away  I  figure  that  it's  got  to  be  jam  and  tripendicular  to  groove  with  the  eight-armers.  I  do  not  pre-  tend  to  understand  this  mega-aversion  that  she  is  harboring,  but  I've  got  some  confid  working  and  pretty  soon  the  whole  thing  scopes  out  fully  munga.  I'm  not  grain-fed,  but  I  know  a  gomer  and  they  alwayshave  their  theme.  They  act  like  a  gork  for  weird  on  the  moving  mall  stairs.  Or  they  blow  a  hype  on  the  pigeon  tower.  Or  they  go  sckacks  when  they  see  car-  bos  and  run  in  to  worship  the  porten-  tous  buick.  I  have  been  around  the  track,  even  as  a  squid.  I  have  dropped  the  bomb.  When  thingsgot  gay  I  have  always  opted  to  shine.  I  know  when  Big  Ben  says  to  book.  I  know  when  to  voice  over,  and  I  know  which  sluts  have  beenburgered  out.  I've  been  from  ritual  to  romance  and  I  grokked  41  all  the  input  you  have,  and  probably  more.  Still,  I'maggro  over  this  momma  who  is  my  sister  in  my  rack  in  the  slurbs.  I  don't  want  to  sound  raspy,  but  it  is  verysketchy  between  the  rayon  in  that  lair.  If  you  can't  buy  it,  iron  a  prune.  So  my  head  is  airmailed  to  New  Jersey  because  I'm  constantly  gumming  out  over  this  incubus.  Urr  to  the  quantum  level.  Like  my  progenitor  says,  I  needed  arresting.  But  I  needed  a  wheeze  in  the  worst  of  all  possible  worlds.  I  went  for  it,  and  I  don't  mind  telling  you,  even  thoughyou  probably  think  I  am  poor  protoplasm.  Be  hard  core.  See  what  falls  out  of  the  tree  on  you.  Don't  take  it  to  din-  ner.  You  may  be  asked  to  move  away  from  the  normals.  You  may  have  to  take  a  three-and-a-half  and  go  back  to  the  primordial  soup  and  the  hesh-  ers.  I  came  with  the  little  furry  ones  and  it  was  a  wheeze  among  the  wheezes  on  Olympus  and  the  birds  stopped  singing  so  they  could  scope  it  out.  We  have  on  these  diapers.  The  white  breechcloth  for  those  who  have  newly  aspired.  Byzantine,  these  words  they  have  for  everything.  I  got  a  spanking.  For  scaring  my  sister  with  a  spider.  Totally  sixties."