 CONSTRUCTION  WENT  to  [REDACTED]  and,  in  due  course,  returned,  having  fin-  ished  the  relatively  important  mat-  ter  of  business  which  had  taken  me  to  [REDACTED],  something  to  dowith  a  contract,  a  noxious  contract,  which  I  signed,  after  the  new  paragraphs  were  inserted  and  initialled  by  all  parties,  tiresome  business  of  initialling  num-  berless  copies  of  documents  reproduced  on  onionskin,  which  does  not  feel  happy  in  the  hand.  One  of  the  law-  yers  wore  a  woven  straw  Western  hat  with  a  snake  hatband.  He  had  an  excessive  suntan.  The  hatband  dis-  played  as  its  centerpiece  the  head  of  a  rattlesnake  with  its  mouth  stretched  and  the  fangs  touchable.  Helen  made  a  joke  about  it,  she  does  something  in  the  [REDACTED]  office,  I'm  not  sure  what  it  is  butshe  is  treated  with  con-  siderable  deference,  they  all  seem  to  defer  to  her,  an  attractive  woman,  of  course,  but  also  one  who  manifests  a  certain  authority,  a  quiet  authority,  had  I  had  the  time  I  would  have  asked  someone  what  she  was  &quot;all  about,&quot;  as  we  say,  but  I  had  to  get  back,  one  cannot  spend  all  one's  time  in  lawyers'  offices  in  [REDACTED].  Although  it  was  January  and  there  was  snow,  bliz-  zarding  even,  elsewhere,  the  tempera-  ture  was  in  the  fifties  and  the  foliage,  the  collection  of  strange-looking  trees,  not  trees  but  something  between  a  tree  and  a  giant  shrub,  that  distinguishes  the  city,  that  hides  what  is  less  prepos-  sessing  than  the  shrubs  or  treee-I  refer  to  the  local  construction-which  serves  as  a  scrim  orscreen  between  the  eye  and  the  local  construction,  much  of  it  admirable  no  doubt,  the  foliage  was  successfully  carrying  out  its  func-  tion,  making  [REDACTED]  a  pleasant,  reticent,  green  place,  which  fact  I  no-  ticed  before  my  return  from  Los  An-  geles.  The  flight  back  from  [REDACTED]  was  without  event,  very  calm  and  smooth  in  the  night.  I  had  a  cup  of  hot  chicken  noodle  soup  which  the  flight  attendant  was  kind  enough  to  prepare  for  me;  I  handed  her  the  can  of  chicken  noodle  soup  and  she  (I  sup-  pose,  I  don't  know  the  details)  heated  it  in  her  microwave  oven  and  then  brought  me  the  cup  of  hot  chicken  noodle  soup  which  I  had  handed  her  in  canned  form,  also  a  number  of  drinks  which  helped  make  the  calm,  smooth  flight  more  so.  The  plane  was  half  empty,  there  had  been  a  half-hour     delay  in  getting  off  the  ground  which  I  spent  marvelling  at  a  sentence  in  a  magazine,  the  sentence  reading  as  fol-  lows:  &quot;[Name  of  film]  explores  the  issues  of  love  and  sex  without  being  chaste.&quot;  I  marvelled  over  this  for  the  full  half  hour  we  sat  on  the  ground  waiting  for  clearance  on  my  return  from  [REDACTED],  thinking  of  ade-  quate  responses,  such  as  &quot;Well,  we  for  God's  sake  avoided  that  at  least,&quot;  but  no  response  I  could  conjure  up  was  equal  to  or  could  be  equal  to  the  origi-  nal  text  which  I  tore  out  of  the  maga-  zine  and  folded  and  placed,  folded,  in  my  jacket  pocket  for  further  consider-  ation  at  some  time  in  the  future  when  I  might  need  a  giggle.  Then  de-  planing  and  carrying  my  bag  through  the  mostly  deserted  tunnels  of  the  air-  port  to  the  cab  rank,  I  obtained  a  cab  driven  by  a  black  manwho  was,  he  said,  leaving  the  cab  business  to  begin  a  messenger  service  and  had  that  very  morning  taken  delivery  on  a  truck,  a  1985  Toyota,  for  the  purpose  and  was,  as  soon  ashis  shift  ended,  going  to  not  only  show  the  1985  Toyota  truck  to  his  mother  but  also  pick  up  his  car-  go  insurance.  He  asked  me  what  I  thought  about  the  economy  and  I  said  that  I  thought  it  would  continue  to  do  well,  nationally,  for  a  time  but  that  the  local  economy,  by  which  I  meant  that  of  the  whole  region,  would  I  thought  not  do  as  well,  because  of  structural  problems.  He  then  told  me  a  story  about  being  in  the  jungle  in  [REDACTED]  with  a  fellow  who  had  been  there  for  seventeen  months  and  got  a  letter  from  his  wife  in  which  she  announced  that  she  was  pregnant  but  (and  I  quote)  &quot;hadn't  been  doing  anything,&quot;  and  that  his  colleague,  in  the  jungle,  had  then  gone  crazy,  and  I  said,  &quot;Seven-  teen  months,  what  was  he  doing  there  for  seventeen  months',&quot;  the  normal  tour  being  one  year,  and  he  said,  &quot;He  extended,&quot;  and  I  said,  &quot;He  extended?,&quot;  and  he  said,  &quot;Yeah,  he  extended,&quot;  and  I  said,  &quot;Then  he  was  crazy  before  he  got  the  letter,&quot;  and  he  said,  &quot;Bingo!,&quot;  and  we  both  said,  &quot;Hoo,  hoo,&quot;  in  healthy  fashion.  He  dropped  me  off  in  front  of  my  building  and  I  went  up-  stairs  and  made  a  thickish  cup  of  Hot  Spiced  Cider  from  an  envelope  of  Hot  Spiced  Cider  Mix  that  I  had  acquired  free  when  I  bought  the  bottle  of  Tree  Top  Apple  Cider  that  was  in  my  re-  frigerator,  and  took  off  my  tie,  and  sat  there,in  my  house,  on  my  return  from  [REDACTED].  I  thought  about  the  food  I  had  had  in  [REDACTED]  and  about  what  I  had  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  to  do  next,  the  next  day,  the  next  severaldays,  and  of  course  about  the  long-range  plan.  I  sat  there  in  the  darkened  room  without  a  shirt  (I  had  taken  off  my  shirt)  thinking  about  the  food  I  had  had  in  Los  Ange-  les,  the  rather  ordinary  Tournedos  Rossini,  the  rather  too  down-to-  earth  Huevos  Rancheros  in  avery  expensive  place  that  neverthelesspresent-  ed  its  Huevos  Rancheros  on  a  tin  plate,  and  its  coffeein  cracked  blue  enamel  mugs,  the  Chuck  Wagon  was  its  name.  Breakfast  there  with  Helen,  who  had  an  odd  air  of  authority,  one  could  not  immediately  fathom  its  source  and  I  was  too  tired,  after  a  long  night  in  Los  Ange-  les,  too  tired  or  in-  sufficiently  interested,  to  ask  the  questions,  of  ei-  ther  her  associates  or  my  associates  or  of  Helen  directly,  that  would  have  allowed  me  to  fath-  om  the  source  of  her  authority  in  [REDACTED],  Los  Ange-  les  being  to  me  aplace  where  one  went,  of  necessity,  at  rare  intervals,  to  sign  and/or  initial  or  renegotiate  whatever  needed  such  attention.  I  noticed  very  little  about  the  place,  the  shrubs  or  trees,  saw  a  bit  of  the  ocean  from  my  hotel-room  window,  saw  an  old  woman  in  a  green  bathrobe  on  the  balcony  of  the  building  op-  posite,  at  the  same  level,  the  eleventh  floor,  and  wondered  if  she  was  a  guest  or  if  she  was  one  of  those  per-  sons  who  clean  the  place;  if  she  was  one  of  those  persons  who  clean  the  place  it  seemed  unlikely  that  she  would  come  to  work  in  a  green  bathrobe  and  I  am  sure  that  she  wore  a  green  bathrobe,  but  she  did  not  resemble  a  guest  or  tenant,  she  had  a  bent,  bro-  ken,  stooped,  losing-the-game  look  that  defined  a  person  who  was  not  winning  the  game.  Seldom  am  I  in  error  about  such  things,  the  eidetic  memory  as  we  say,  saw  a  figure  of  some  kind  possibly  female  atop  the  Mormon  temple,  the  figure  seemed  to  be  leading  the  people  somewhere,  on-  ward,  presumably,  saw  several  un-  painted  pictures  on  the  street,  from  the  windows  of  the  limousine  in  which  I  was  moved  from  place  toplace,  Pietas  mostly,  one  creature  holding  another  creature  in  its  arms,  at  bus  stops,  mostly.  [REDACTED].  I  thought  about  sand  although  I  saw  no  sand  in  [REDACTED],  they  told  me  that  there  were  beaches  in  the  vi-  cinity;  the  bit  of  ocean  I  had  seen  from  the  window  of  my  hotel  room  on  Wil-  shire  implied  sand  but  I  saw  no  sand  during  my  not  extensive  stay  in  [REDACTED],  where  I  signed  various  docu-  ments  having  to  do  with  the  long-  range  plan,  which  I  sat  thinking  about  in  the  dank  without  my  shirt  in  my  own  house  upon  my  return  from  [REDACTED].  I  mentally  compared  our  city  to  [REDACTED],  a  competition  in  which  our  city  was  not  found  inferior,  you  may  be  sure,  a  weighing  of  values  in  which  our  city  was  not  given  short  weight,  you  may  be  sure.  In  the  matter  of  madhouses  alone  we  suggest  [REDACTED].  To  say  nothing  of  our  grand  boulevards  and  taverns  (where  never,  never,  never  would  one  be  served  Huevos  Rancheros  on  a  tin  plate)  and  our  excellent  mayor  who  habitually  meets  the  City  Council  with  a  Holy   Bible  clenched  between  his  teeth.  But  I  had  no  desire  to  get  into  a  slanging  match  with  the  city  of  [REDACTED],  in  my  mind,  and  so  turned  my  mind  to  the  problem  at  hand,  the  long-range  plan.  I  WAS  considering  the  long-range  plan,  pressing  upon  me  in  all  its  immensity,  the  five-hundred-and-sev-  enty-six-million-dollar  long-range  plan  for  which  I  have  been  repeatedly  criticized  by  my  associates  and  by  their  associates  and,  who  knows,  by  associ-  ates  of  the  associates  of  my  associates,  with  particular  reference  to  the  vast  underground  parking  facility,  when  my  mother  telephoned  to  ask  what  the  left-hand  page  of  a  book  is  called.  My  mother  often  calls  me  at  two  o'clock  in  the  morning  because  she  has  trou-  ble  sleeping.  &quot;Recto,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;it's  ei-  ther  recto  or  verso,  I  don't  remember  which  is  which,  you  can  look  it  up,  how  are  you?&quot;  My  mother  said  that  she  was  fine  except  for  horrible  night-  mares  when  she  did  manage  to  get  to  sleep,  horrible  nightmares  on  those  rare  occasions  when  she  did  manage  to  get  to  sleep,  horrible  nightmares  in-  " b"volving  the  long-range  plan.  I  had  taken  the  five-hundred-and-seventy-  six-million-dollar  long-range  plan  home  to  show  to  my  mother  some  months  previously,  she  studied  the  many-hundred-page  printout  with  care  and  then  announced  that,  very  probably,  it  would  give  her  night-  mares.  My  mother  is  a  disciple  of  Schumacher,  the  &quot;small&quot;  man,  a  dis-  ciple  of  Mumford,  a  disciple  (mov-  ing  backward  in  time)  of  Fourier,  and  a  disciple  most  recently  of  Francois  Mitterrand,  she  wonders  why  we  can't  have  a  President  like  that,  a  real  Socialist  who  also  speaks  excellent  French.  My  mother  is  somewhat  out  of  touch  with  present  realities  and  feels  that  property  is  theft  and  feels  that  my  father  taught  me  the  wrong  things  (although  I  feel  that  much  of  what  my  father  taught  me,  in  his  quite  bold  and  dramatic  way,  his  quite  bold  and  dramatic  and  let  it  be  acknowl-  edged  self-dramatizing  way,  was  of  3)  great  use  to  me  later-the  \xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9e,  the  leveraged  buyout,  Chapter  11-al-  thoughhad  he  really  loved  me  he  would  have  placed  more  stress,  per-  haps,  on  air-conditioning,  the  manu-  facture,  sale,  installation,  and  mainte-  nance  of  air-conditioning).  My  prob-  lem  with  the  long-range  plan  was  not  ethical,  like  my  mother's,  but  practi-  cal:  Why  am  I  doing  this?  It  is  not  easy,  it  is  not  the  easiest  thing,  to  go  through  life  asking  this  sort  of  question,  this  sort  of  poignant  and  noxious  question  that  poisons  and  makes  poignant  (Idetest  poignancy!)  one's  every  can  of  chicken  noodle  soup  or  cup  of  Spiced  Cider  Mix,  afflicting  equally  morning,  noon,  and  night  (I  sleep  no  better  than  my  mother  does),  infecting  calm  seriousness  and  fever-  ing  the  cash  flow.  For  [REDACTED],  I  say  to  myself,  for  [REDACTED],  and  that  works  sometimes  but  sometimes  it  does  not;  for  [REDACTED]  is  better  than  because  I  can  and  not  as  good,  not  as  sweetly  persuasive,  as  movement  of  historical  forces  which  is  itself  less  convincing  than  either  what  else?  or  why  not  Where  in  this,  I  ask  myself,  where  in  all  this  &quot;construction&quot;  (and  the  vast  underground  parking  facility  alone  will  extend  from  here  to  St.  Louis,  or  very  near),  where  in  all  this  is  the  (and  we  do  not  fail  to  notice,  do  not  fail  to  notice,  the  constructive  associa-  tions  clustering  about  the  word  &quot;con-  struction,&quot;  the  hugely  affirmative  and  congratulatory  overtones  clinging  like  busy  rust  to  the  word  &quot;construction&quot;)  answer  to  the  question,  Why  am  I  doing  this?  What  else?  Why  not?  There  remained  the  mystery  of  Helen,  whose  moods,  her  aggressive  moods,  her  fearful  moods,  her  desirous  moods,  her  celebratory,  resentful,  and  temporizing  moods,  remained  to  be  plumbed,  thoroughly  plumbed.  Thor-  oughness  is  the  key  to  avoidance  of  noxious  and  life-ruining  questions,  perplexing,  noxious,  and  life-ruining  questions  which  threaten  the  delicate  principle,  construction.  Construction  is  like  a  little  boy  growing  up  or  an  old  man  winding  down  or  a  middle-aged  man  floundering  in  the  soup,  where  not  infrequently  I  find  that  boiling  lobster,  myself.  The  spread  (margarine,  dis-  ease)  of  the  physical  surround  can  be  like  a  spill  of  mixed  motives  or  like  an  irruption  of  the  divine  (New  Jerusalem,  vast  underground  parking  facility)  or  like  decay  in  the  sense  of  spoilation  of  an  existing  unshrubbed  unbuilt  swamp  or  Eden,  these  are  the  three  categories  under  which  construction  may  be  subsumed,  the  word  &quot;subsumed&quot;  itself  sounds  like  a  soil  test.  But  if  one  spends  (and  on  the  word  &quot;spends&quot;  I  wish  to  dwell  not  at  all)  one's  time  thinking  about  these  issues  one  loosens  one's  grasp  on  other  issues,  bond  is-  sues,  for  example,  on  leverage  and  the  honest  use  of  materials  and  density  and  building  codes  which  vary  fearfully  from  locality  to  locality  and  tax  wrin-  kles  and  the  golden  section  and  1%  for  art  and  100%  locations  and  cul-de-  sacs  and  the  Wiener  Werkstatte  and  seals-and-cladding  and  fast  skinning  and  cure  of  paints  and  the  bevelling  of  glass  and  how  to  clinch  a  nail  and  how  to  sleep  well,  at  night,  in  the  vast  march\xc3\xa9  aux  puces  of  my  calling.  .  ..  The  next  day,  pausing  only  to  in-  struct  my  secretary,  Rip,  to  throw  our  messenger  business  to  Hubie  the  former  cabdriver,  who  had  given  me  his  card,  I  flew  back  to  [REDACTED]  to  begin  understanding  the  mystery  of  Helen.  -Donarp  BarTtHELME  "