 A  CONSTELLATION  OF  EVENTS  HE  events  felt  spaced  in  a  vast  deep  sky,  its  third  dimension  dizzying.  Looking  back,  Betty  could  scarcely  believe  the  days  had  come  so  close  together.  But  no;  there,  flat  on  the  calendar,  they  were,  one  after  the  other-four  bright  February  days.  Sunday,  after  church,  Rob  had  taken  her  and  the  children  cross-coun-  try  skiing.  They  made  a  party  of  it.  He  called  up  Evan,  because  they  had  discussed  the  possibility  at  the  office  Friday,  while  the  storm  was  raging  around  their  green-glass  office  build-  ing  in  [REDACTED],  and  she,  because  Evan,  a  bachelor,  was  Lydia  Smith's  lover,  called  up  the  Smiths  and  invited  them,  too;  it  was  the  sort  of  festive,  mischievous  gesture  Rob  found  exces-  sive.  But  Lydia  answered  the  phone  and  was  delighted;  as  her  voice  twit,  tered  in  Betty's  ear,  Betty  stuck  out  her  tongue  at  Rob's  frown.  They  all  met  by  the  Pattersons'  field  in  their  different-colored  cars  and  soon  made  a  line  of  dark  silhouettes  across  the  white  pasture.  Evan  and  Lydia  glided  obliviously  into  the  lead;  Rob  and  Billy,  who  ev  ery  day  looked  more  like  his  father,  and  Fritzi  Smith,  who  in  imitation  of  her  mother  was  quite  t  he  girl  athlete,  occupied  the  middle  distance,  the  little  Smith  boy  strug-  gling  to  keep  up  with  t  his  group;  and  Betty  and  her  baby-poor  bitterly  whining,  miserably  ill-equipped  Jen-  nifer-ca  me  last,  along  with  Rafe  Smi  th,  who  didn't  ski  much  and  whose  bindings  kept  letting  go.  He  was  less  tall  t  han  Rob,  m  ore  of  a  clown,  f  uller  of  doubt,  h  atchet-fac  ed  and  green  -  eyed:  a  sad,  encouraging  sort  of  man.  He  kept  te  lling  Jennifer,  &quot;Ups-a-  daisy,  Jenny,  keep  in  the  others'  t  racks  ,  n  ow  you've  got  t  he  rhythm,  oops  ,&quot;  as  the  child's  skis  scrambled  and  she  t  opple  d  down  again.  Mean-  while,  one  of  Rafe's  feet  would  have  come  out  of  his  binding  and  Betty  would  have  to  wait  ,  as  the  others  dwi  nd  led  in  the  distance.  The  fields  were  immense  in  their  brillian  ce.  Her  eyes  winced,  taking  the  immensity  in.  The  tracks  of  their  par-  ty,  and  the  tracks  of  the  Sno-Cats  that  had  fro  lick  ed  here  yesterday  in  the  wake  of  the  storm,  scarcely  touched    the  marvellous  blankness-slopes  up  and  down,  an  oak  on  a  knoll,  rail  fences  like  pencilled  hatchings,  the  weathered  No  TrrEspassing  signs.  A  creek,  thawed  into  audible  life,  ran  where  two  slopes  met.  Betty  was  afraid  to  follow  the  tracks  of  the  others  here;  it  involved  stepping,  in  skis,  from  snowbank  to  snowbank  across  a  width  of  icy,  confident,  secretive  water.  She  panicked  and  took  the  wooden  bridge  fifty  yards  out  of  their  way.  Rafe  lifted  Jennifer  up  and  stepped  across,  one  of  his  bindings  snapping  on  the  other  side,  but  no  harm  done.  The  child  laughed  for  the  first  time  that  after-  noon.  The  sun  came  of  the  snow  hot;  Betty  thought  her  face  would  get  its  first  touch  of  tan  today,  and  then  it  would  not  be  many  weeks  before  cows  grazed  here  again,  among  the  may-  flowers.  Pushing  up  the  slope  on  the  other  side  of  the  creek,  toward  the  woods,  she  slipped  backward  and  fell  sideways.  The  snow  was  moist,  warm.  &quot;Help,&quot;  she  said,  and  was  pleasurably  aware  of  the  massy  uplifted  curve  of  her  hip  in  jeans  as  she  looked  down  over  it  at  Rafe  behind  her,  his  green  eyes  sun-narrowed,  alert,  startled.  &quot;Want  to  get  up?&quot;&quot;  he  asked,  and  held  out  a  hand,  a  damp  black  mitten.  As  she  reached  for  it,  he  pulled  off  the  mitten,  offering  her  a  bare  hand,  bony  and  pink  and  surprising,  so  suddenly  exposed  to  the  air.  &quot;Ups-a-daisy,&quot;  he  said,  and  the  effort  of  pulling  her  erect  threw  him  off  balance,  and  a  binding  popped  loose  again.  Both  she  and  Jenny  laughed  this  time.  At  the  entrance  of  the  path  through  the  woods,  Rob  waited  with  evident  patience.  Before  he  could  complain,  she  did:  &quot;Jennifer  is  going  crazy  on  these  awful  borrowed  skis.  Way  can't  she  have  decent  equipment  like  other  children?&quot;  &quot;I'll  stay  with  her,&quot;  her  husband  said,  both  firm  and  evasive  in  his  way,  avoiding  the  question  with  an  appear-  ance  of  meeting  it,  and  appearing  self-  less  in  order  to  shame  her.  But  she  felt  the  smile  on  her  face  as  undeniably,  as  unerasably,  as  the  sun  on  the  field.  Rob's  face  clouded,  gathering  itself  to  speak;  Rafe  interrupted,  apologizing,  blaming  their  slowness  upon  himself  and  his  defective  bindings.  Rob  offered  to  inspect  them.  For  a  moment  that  somehow  went  through  her-perhaps  no  more  than  the  flush  of  exertion  meeting  the  chill  blue  shade  of  the  woods,  here  at  the  edge-the  two  men  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  stood  together,  intent  upon  the  mecha-  nism,  her  presence  forgotten.  Rob  found  the  misadjustment,  and  Rafe's  skis  came  off  no  more.  In  the  woods,  Rob  and  Jennifer  fell  behind.  Rafe  slithered  ahead,  hurrying  to  catch  up  to  his  children  and,  beyond  them,  to  his  wife  and  Evan.  Betty  tried  to  stay  with  her  husband  and  child,  but  they  were  too  maddening-one  whin-  ing,  the  other  frowning,  and  neither  grateful.  She  let  herself  ski  ahead,  and  became  alone  in  the  woods,  aware  of  distant  voices,  the  whisper  of  her  skis,  the  soft  companionable  heave  of  her  own  breathing.  Pine  trunks  shifted  about,  one  behind  another,  aligned  and  then  not  aligned-shadowy  harmo-  nies.  At  some  points,  the  trees  grew  down  into  the  path;  a  twig  touched  her  eye,  so  lightly  she  was  surprised  to  find  pain  lingering,  and  herself  cry-  ing.  There  was  an  open  place  where  paths  diverged.  Here  Rafe  was  wait-  ing  for  her;  thin,  leaning  on  his  poles,  he  seemed  a  shadow  among  oth-  ers.  &quot;Which  way  do  you  think  they  went?&quot;  He  sounded  breathless  and  acted  lost.  His  wife  and  her  lover  had  escaped  him.  &quot;Left  is  the  way  to  get  back  to  the  car,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  can't  tell  which  are  their  tracks,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'm  sorry,&quot;  Betty  said.  He  relaxed  on  his  poles,  and  made  no  sign  of  moving.  &quot;Where  is  Rob?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;Coming,  with  dear  Jennifer,.  I'll  wait;  you  go  on.&quot;  &quot;Ill  wait  with  you.  It's  too  scary  in  here.  Do  you  want  that  book?&quot;  The  sentences  followed  one  another  evenly,  as  if  consequentially.  The  book  was  about  Jane  Austen,  by  an  English  professor  Betty  had  studied  under  years  ago.  She  had  no-  ticed  it,  lying  on  the  front  seat  of  the  Smiths'  car  while  they  were  all  fussing  with  their  skis,  and  had  exclaimed.  In  a  strange  suspended  summer  of  her  life,  the  summer  when  Billy  was  born,  she  had  read  through  all  six  of  the  Austen  novels,  sitting  on  a  sun  porch  waiting  and  waiting  and  then  sudden-  ly  nursing.  &quot;If  you're  done  with  it.&quot;  &quot;I  am.  It's  tame,  but  dear,  as  you  would  say.  Could  I  bring  it  by  tomor-  row  morning?&quot;  He  had  recently  left  a  law  firm  in  [REDACTED]  and  opened  an  office  here  in  town.  He  had  few  clients  but  seemed  amused,  being  idle;  there  was  something  fragile  and  incapable  about  him.     31  &quot;  F  r  a  n  k  l  y  ,  D  o  b  b  i  n  s  ,  w  e  w  e  r  e  g  o  i  n  g  t  o  l  e  t  y  o  u  g  o  ,  b  u  t  w  e  '  v  e  d  e  c  i  d  e  d  t  o  k  e  e  p  y  o  u  o  n  a  s  a  w  i  l  d  c  a  r  d  .  &quot;  &quot;O.K.,&quot;  she  said,  adding,  &quot;Jennifer  comes  back  from  school  at  noon.&quot;  And  then  Jennifer  and  Rob  caught  up  to  them,  both  needing  to  be  pla-  cated,  and  she  forgot  this  shadowy  man's  promise,  as  if  her  mind  had  been  possessed  by  the  emptiness  where  the  snowy  paths  diverged.  MONDAY  was  bright,  and  the  peal  at  the  door  accented  the  musical  dripping  of  the  icicles  ringing  the  house  around  with  falling  pearls.  Rafe  was  hunched  under  the  dripping,  the  book  held  dry  against  his  parka.  He  offered  just  to  hand  it  to  her,  but  she  invited  him  in  for  coffee;  he  seemed  so  sad,  still  lost.  They  sat  with  the  coffee  on  the  sofa,  and  soon  his  armswere  around  her  and  his  lips,  tasting  of  coffee,  warm  on  her  mouth  and  his  hands  cold  on  her  skin  beneath  the  sweater,  and  she  could  not  move  her  mind  from  hovering,  from  floating  in  a  golden  consciousness  of  the  sun  on  the  floorboards,  great  slanting  splashes  of  it,  rhomboids  broken  by  the  feathery  silhouettes  of  her  houseplants  on  the  windowsills.  From  her  angle  as  he  stretched  her  out  on  the  sofa,  the  shadows  of  the  drips  leaped  upward  in  the  patches  of  sun,  appearing  to  defy  gravity  as  her  head  whirled.  She  sat  up,  pushed  him  off  without  rebuke,  unpinned  and  repinned  her  hair.  \xc2\xab&quot;What  are  we  doing?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;I  don't  know,&quot;  Rafe  said,  and  indeed  he  didn't  seem  to;  his  assault  on  her  had  felt  clumsy,  scared,  insin-  cere.  He  seemed  grateful  to  be  stopped.  His  face  was  pink,  as  his  hand  had  been.  In  the  light  of  the  windows  behind  the  sofa  his  eyes  were  very  green.  An  asparagus  fern  hanging  there  cast  a  net  of  shadow  that  his  fea-  tures  moved  in  and  out  of  as  he  apologized,  talked,  joked.  &quot;Baby  fat!&quot;  he  had  exclaimed  of  her  belly,  bending  suddenly  to  kiss  the  crease  there,  his  face  thin  as  a  blade,  and  hot.  He  was  frightened,  Betty  realized,  which  ban-  ished  her  own  fear.  Gently  she  maneuvered  him  away  from  her  body,  out  of  the  door.  It  was  not  so  hard;  she  remembered  how  to  fend  off  boys  from  the  college  days  his  book  had  brought  back  to  her.  In  his  gratitude,  he  wouldn't  stop  smiling.  His  body  as  he  crossed  the  melting  streetfairly  danced  with  relief.  And  for  her,  again  alone  in  the  empty  house,  it  was  as  if,  along  with  her  fear,  much  of  her  soul  had  been  banished;  feeling  neither  remorse  nor  expecta-  " b"52  tion,  she  hovered  above  the  patches  of  sun  being  stitched  by  falling  drops,  among  the  curved  shining  of  glass  and  porcelain  and  aluminum  kitchen  equipment,  in  the  house's  strange  warmth-strange  as  any  event  seems  when  only  we  are  there  to  witness  it.  Betty  lifted  her  sweater  to  look  at  her  belly-pale,  slack.  Baby  fat.  Middle  age  had  softened  her  middle.  But  then  Lydia  was  an  athlete,  tomboyish  and  lean,  swift  on  skis,  with  that  some-  thing  Roman  and  androgynous  and  enigmatic  about  her  looks.  It  was  what  Rafe  was  used  to;  the  contrast  had  startled  him.  She  picked  up  theold  book  from  the  sofa  and  surprised  herself,  in  her  great  swimming  calmness,  by  being  unable  to  read.  TUESDAY,  as  they  had  planned  weeks  ago,  Rob  took  her  to  Phil-  adelphia.  She  had  been  born  there,  and  he  had  business  there;  taking  her  along  was  his  tribute,  he  had  made  it  too  plain,  to  her  condition  as  a  bored  housewife.  Yet  she  loved  it,  loved  him,  once  the  bumping,  humming  terror  of  the  plane  ride  was  past.  The  city  in  the  winter  sunlight  looked  cleaner  and  tamer  than  she  remembered  it,  her  rough  and  enormous  dear  drab  city  of  brotherly  love.  Rob  had  come  because  his  insurance  company  was  helping  finance  a  shopping  mall  in  southern  New  [REDACTED];  he  disappeared  into  the  familiar  old  Egyptian  facade  of  the  Penn  Mutual  Building  (its  inside,  however,  all  raw  new  glass).  She  wandered  window-shopping  along  Walnut  Street  until  her  feet  hurt,  then  took  a  cab  from  Rittenhouse  Square  to  the  Museum  of  Art.  There  was  less  snow  in  [REDACTED]  than  in  Connect-  icut;  some  of  the  grass  beside  the  Franklin  Parkway  even  looked  green.  At  the  head  of  the  stairs  inside,  Saint-  Gaudens'  great  green  Diana,  whom  her  childhood  imagination  had  somehow  confused  with  the  good  witch  of  fairy  stories,  still  posed  on  one  tiptoe  foot  at  her  shadowy  height,  though  within  the  museum  there  were  many  changes,  much  additional  brightness.  The  three  versions  of  &quot;Nude  Descending  a  Stair-  case&quot;  and  the  big  bald  &quot;Bride  Stripped  Bare  by  Her  Bachelors,  Even&quot;  no  longer  puzzled  and  offended  her.  The  daring  passes  into  the  classic  in  our  very  lifetimes,  while  we  age  and  die.  Rob  met  her,  just  when  he  had  prom-  ised,  at  three-thirty,  amid  the  Impres-  sionist  paintings.  Her  sudden  love  of  him,  here  in  this  room  of  raw  color  and  light,  felt  like  a  melting.  She  leaned  on  him,  he  moved  away  from  her  touch,  and  in  her  unaccustomed  heels  Betty  sidestepped  to  keep  her  bal-  ance.  They  had  tea  in  the  cafeteria,  out  of  place  in  their  dark  suits  among  the  students  in  their  jeans  and  down  vests.  &quot;How  do  you  like  being  back?&quot;  Rob  asked  her.  &quot;It's  changed,  I've  changed.  I  like  it  where  I  am  now.  You  were  dear  to  bring  me,  though.&quot;  She  touched  his  hand,  and  he  did  not  pull  it  away  on  the  smooth  tabletop,  whose  white  re-  minded  her  of  snow.  Happiness  must  have  been  on  her  face,  glowing  like  a  sunburn,  for  he  looked  at  her  and  seemed  for  an  in-  stant  to  see  her.  The  instant  troubled  him.  Though  too  heavy  to  be  hand-  some,  he  had  beautiful  eyes,  tawny  and  indifferent  like  a  lion's;  they  slitted  and  he  frowned  in  the  unaccustomed  exercise  of  framing  a  compliment.  &quot;It's  such  a  pity,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;you're  my  wife.&quot;  She  laughed,  astonished.  &quot;Is  it?  Why?&quot;  &quot;You'd  make  such  a  lovely  mis-  tress.&quot;  &quot;You  think  How  do  you  know?  Have  you  ever  had  a  mistress?&quot;  She  was  so  confident  of  the  answer  she  went  on  before  he  could  say  no.  &quot;'Then  how  do  you  know  I'd  make  a  lovely  one?  Maybe  I'd  make  an  awful  one.  Better  just  accept  me  as  a  wife,&quot;  she  advised  complacently.  The  table  was  white  and  cluttered  between  them;  she  could  hardly  wait  until  they  were  home,  in  bed.  His  lovemaking  was  like  him,  firm  and  tireless,  and  it  al-  ways  worked.  She  admired  that.  Once,  she  had  adored  it.  Until  her  adoration  had  seemed  to  depress  him.  And  some-  thing  in  her  now,  at  this  glittering  table,  depressed  him-perhaps  the  mistress  he  had  glimpsed  in  her,  the  mistress  that  he  of  all  the  men  in  the  world  was  barred  from,  could  never  have.  She  touched  his  hand  as  if  in  acknowledgment  of  a  shared  sorrow.  But  happiness  kept  mounting  in  her,  giddy  and  meaningless,  inexplicable,  unstoppable,  though  she  saw  that  on  its  wings  she  was  leaving  Rob  behind.  And  he  had  never  seemed  solider  or  kinder,  or  she  more  fittingly,  as  they  rose  and  left  the  museum,  his  wife.  On  the  flight  back,  to  calm  her  ter-  " b"ror,  she  pulled  the  book  from  her  handbag  and  read:  As  Lionel  Trilling  was  to  say  in  1957  (before  women  had  risen  in  their  might),  &quot;The  extraordi-  nary  thing  about  Emma  is  that  she  has  a  moral  life  as  a  man  hasa  moral  life.  ...  A  consciousness  is  al-  ways  at  work  in  her,  a  sense  of  what  she  ought  to  be  and  do.&quot;  Rob  looked  over  her  shoulder  and  asked,  &quot;Isn't  that  Rafe's  book?&quot;  &quot;One  just  like  it,&quot;  she  answered  instantly,  deceit  proving  not  such  a  difficult  trick  after  all.  &quot;You  must  have  seen  it  on  the  front  seat  of  his  car  Sunday.  So  did  I,  and  I  found  a  copy  at  Wanamaker's  this  morning.&quot;  &quot;It  looks  read.&quot;  &quot;I  was  reading  it.  Waiting  for  you.&quot;  His  silence  she  took  to  be  a  satisfied  one.  He  rattled  his  paper,  then  asked,  &quot;Isn't  it  awfully  dry?&quot;  She  feigned  preoccu-  pation.  A  precarious  rumble  changed  pitch  under  her.  &quot;Mm.  Dry  but  dear.&quot;  &quot;He's  a  sad  guy,  isn't  he?&quot;  Rob  abruptly  said.  &quot;Rafe.&quot;  &quot;What's  sad  about  him?&quot;  You  know.  Being  cuckolded.&quot;  &quot;Maybe  Lydia  loves  him  all  the  bet-  ter  for  it,&quot;  Betty  said.  &quot;Impossible,&quot;  her  husband  decreed,  and  hid  himself  in  the  [REDACTED]  Inquirer  as  the  727,  rumbling  and  shuddering,  prepared  to  crash.  She  clutched  at  his  arm  with  that  irratio-  nal  fervor  he  disliked;  deliberately  he  kept  his  eyes  on  the  newspaper,  shut-  ting  her  out.  Yet  in  grudging  answer  to  her  prayers  he  brought  the  plane  down  safely,  with  a  corner  of  his  mind.  N  her  dream,  she  was  teaching,  and  among  her  students  Rafe  seemed  lost.  She  had  a  question  for  him,  and  couldn't  seem  to  get  his  attention,  though  he  was  not  exactly  misbe-  having;  his  back  was  half  turned  as  he  talked  to  some  arrogant  girl  in  the  class  ...It  was  so  exasperating,  she  awoke,  feeling  empty  and  slightly  scared.  Rob  was  out  of  the  bed.  She  33      but  only  in  small  d  oses.&quot;  heard  the  doorslam  as  he  went  to  work.  Billy  and  Jennifer  were  down-  stairs  quarrelling-a  merciless  sound,  as  of  something  boiling  over.  Wednes-  day.  The  children  gone  to  school,  she  moved  through  the  emptiness  of  the  house  exploring  the  realization  that  she  was  in  love.  Like  the  floorboards,  the  doorframes,  the  wallpaper,  the  fact  seemed  not  so  much  pleasant  as  nec-  essary,  not  ornamental  but  functional  in  some  way  she  must  concentrate  on  perceiving.  The  snow  on  the  roof  had  all  melted;  the  dripping  from  the  eaves  had  ceased,  and  a  dry  sunlight  rested  silently  on  the  warm  house,  on  thebare  street,  the  speckled  roof-  tops  of  the  town  beyond  the  sunstruck,  dirty  windows.  The  children's  val-  entines  littered  the  kitchen  counter.  The  calendar  showed  the  shortest  month,  a  candy  box  brimming  with  red  holidays.  Rafe's  office  number  was  newly  listed  in  the  telephone  book.  She  dialled  it,  less  to  reach  him  than  to  test  the  extent  of  her  emptiness.  Alarmingly,  the  ringing  stopped;  he  answered.  &quot;Rafe?&quot;  Her  voice  surprised  her  by  coming  out  cracked.  &quot;Hi,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;How  was  Philly?&quot;  &quot;How  did  you  know  I  went?&quot;  &quot;Everybody  knows.  You  have  no  secrets  from  us.&quot;  He  stopped  joking,  sensing  her  fear.  &quot;Lydia  told  me.&quot;  Evan  had  told  her;  Rob  had  told  him  at  work.  There  was  a  see-through  world  of  love;  her  bright  house  felt  transpar-  ent.  &quot;Was  it  nice?&quot;  Rafe  was  asking.  &quot;Lovely.&quot;  She  felt  she  was  defend-  ing  herself.  \xc2\xab&quot;W  hat  did  you  do?&quot;  &quot;Walked  around  feeling  nostalgic.  Went  to  the  Museum  of  Art.  Rob  met  me  there  and  we  had  tea.&quot;  &quot;It  does  sound  dear.&quot;  His  voice,  by  itself,  was  richer  and  more  relaxed  than  his  physical  presence,  his  help-  less,  humiliated  air.  Her  silence  obliged  him  to  say  more.  &quot;Have  you  had  time  to  look  into  the  book?&quot;  &quot;I  love  it,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It's  so  schol-  arly  and  calm.  I'm  reading  it  very  slowly;  I  want  it  to  last  forever.&quot;  &quot;Forever  seems  long.&quot;  &quot;You  want  to  see  me?&quot;  Her  voice,  involuntarily,  had  thickened.  His  answer  was  as  simple  and  sharp  " b" as  his  green  glance  when  she  had  ex-  claimed  &quot;Help.&quot;  &quot;Sure,&quot;  Rafe  said.  &quot;Where?  This  house  feels  so  con-  spicuous.&quot;  &quot;Come  on  down  here.  People  go  in  and  out  of  the  building  all  day  long.  There's  a  hairdresser  next  to  me.&quot;  &quot;Don't  you  have  any  clients?&quot;  &quot;Not  till  this  afternoon.&quot;  &quot;Do  I  dare?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know.  Do  you?&quot;  More  gently,  he  added,  &quot;You  don't  have  to  do  anything.  You  just  want  to  see  me,  right'  Unfinished  business,  more  or  less.&quot;  (\xe2\x80\x98Yes.\xe2\x80\x9d  Downtown,  an  eerie  silence  pressed  through  the  movement  of  cars  and  people.  Betty  realized  she  was  missing  a  winter  sound  from  childhood:  the  song  of  car  chains.  Snow  tires  had  suppressed  it.  Time  suppressed  every-  thing,  if  you  waited.  Rafe's  building  was  a  grim  brick  business  &quot;block&quot;  built  a  century  ago,  when  the  suburb  had  appeared  to  have  an  independent  future.  An  ambitious  blazon  of  granite  topped  the  facade.  The  stairs  were  linoleum  and  smelled  like  a  rainy-day  cloakroom.  He  was  waiting  for  her  in  his  waiting  room.  On  his  sofa,  a  chill,  narrow,  and  sticky  couch  of  Nau-  gahyde,  beneath  a  wall  ofleather-  bound  laws,  Rafe  proved  impotent.  The  sight  of  her  naked  seemed  to  stun  him.  Through  his  daze  of  embarrass-  ment,  he  never  stopped  smiling.  And  she  at  him.  He  was  beautiful,  so  lean  and  loosely  knit,  but  needed  to  be  nursed  into  knowing  it.  &quot;What  do  you  think  the  matter  is?&quot;  he  asked  her.  &quot;You're  frightened,&quot;  she  told  him.  &quot;I  don't  blame  you.  I'm  a  lot  to  take  on.&quot;  He  nodded,  his  eyes  less  green,  here  in  this  locked,  windowless  anteroom.  &quot;'We're  going  to  bea  lot  of  trouble,  aren't  we?&quot;  (\xe2\x80\x98Yes.\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;I  guess  my  body  is  telling  us  there's  still  time  to  back  out.  Want  to?&quot;  On  top  of  one  set  of  bound  statutes,  their  uniform  spines  forming  hori-  zontal  streaks  like  train  windows  streaming  by,  lay  a  different  sort  of  book,  a  little  paperback.  In  the  dim  room,  where  their  nakedness  was  the  brightest  thing,  she  made  out  the  title:  &quot;Emma.&quot;  She  answered,  &quot;No.&quot;  And,  though  there  was  much  in  the  aftermath  to  regret,  and  a  harm  that  would  never  cease,  for  things  thusbent  are  never  put  right,  Betty  remembered  these  days-the  open  fields,  the  drip-  ping  eaves,  the  paintings,  the  law-  books-as  bright,  as  a  single  iridescent  unit,  not  scattered  like  a  constellation  but  continuous,  a  rainbow,  a  U-turn.  -Joun  Uproik\xc2\xae  The  guns  are  arather  expensive  fad  at  $70-$90  apiece.  They  emit  a  $50,000  volt  charge  which  stuns  victims  for  up  to  15  minutes.-[REDACTED]  Maroon,  newspaper  of  the  University  of  [REDACTED].  Just  like  Con  Ed.  "