 THE  SLAVES  IN  NEW  YORK  A  I  \\HERE  was  a  joke  that  my  cousin  told  my  brother  Roland  when  he  was  five  years  old.  The  joke  went,  &quot;Fat  and  FatFat  and  Pinch  Me  were  in  a  boat.  Fat  and  Fat  Fat  fell  out.  Who  was  left?&quot;  And  my  brother  said,  &quot;Pinch  Me,&quot;  and  my  cousin  pinched  him.  So  when  my  brother  got  home  he  told  my  mother  he  was  going  to  tell  her  a  joke,  and  he  said,  &quot;Fat  and  FatFat  were  in  a  boat.  Fat  and  FatFat  fell  out.  Who  was  left?&quot;  My  mother  said,  &quot;Nobody.&quot;  My  brother  repeated  the  joke,  and  when  my  mother  said  &quot;Nobody&quot;  a  second  time,  my  brother  kicked  her.  Twenty  years  went  by,  I  was  always  older  than  my  brother,  and  my  mother  still  talks  about  my  brother's  fury  at  her  incorrectresponse.  All  he  wanted  was  to  do  to  her  what  had  been  done  to  him.  So  now  I'm  living  in  New  York,  the  city,  and  what  it  is,  it's  the  apart-  ment  situation.  I  had  a  little  apartment  in  an  old  brownstone  on  the  upper  West  Side,  but  it  was  too  expensive,  and  there  were  absolutely  no  inexpen-  sive  apartments  to  be  found.  Besides,  things  weren't  going  all  that  smoothly  for  me.  I  mean,  I  wasn't  exactly  earn-  ing  money.  I  thought  I'd  just  move  to  New  York  and  sell  my  jewelry-  I  worked  in  rubber,  shellacked  sea  horses,  plastic  James  Bond-doll  ear-  rings-but  it  turned  out  a  lot  of  other  girls  had  already  beaten  me  to  it.  So  it  was  during  this  period  that  I  gave  up  and  told  Stashua  I  was  going  home  to  live  with  my  mother.  Stash  and  I  had  been  dating  for  six  months.  That  was  when  Stash  said  we  could  try  living  together.  We've  been  living  together  inhis  place  in  the  Village  about  ayear  now.  One  room,  it's  big,  but  he  has  a  lot  of  stuff  here-boxes,  closetfuls  of  papers.  Well,  he's  been  here  for  ten  years,  and  after  his  divorce  he  hadn't  lived  with  anyone  insix  years  or  so.  I'm  getting  used  to  it.  In  the  morn-  ing  I  clean  up  some,  I  walk  his  Dalmation,  Andrew,  then  I  come  back  and  cook  Stash  two  poached  eggs,  raisin  tea  biscuits,  coffee  with  three 1984  spoons  sugar.  Usually  around  this  time  of  day,  the  doorman  buzzes  on  the  intercom  and  I  have  to  go  down  to  pick  up  a  package,  or  run  to  the  store  for  some  more  cigarettes,  whatever.  Then  Stash  goes  off  to  work.  He's  a  graffiti  artist,  he  works  for  himself,  so  he  doesn't  have  to  go  in  until  late,  except  recently  he's  been  out  of  the  house  by  ten,  since  he's  nervous  about  getting  ready  for  his  show  coming  up  soon  at  his  gallery  on  Fifty-seventh  Street.  I  watch  a  few  soap  operas  and  have  a  second  cup.  Then  usually  I  start  to  plan  the  evening  dinner.  I'll  make,  let's  say,  Cornish  game  hen  with  or-  ange  glaze,  curried  rice,  asparagus,  or  it  could  be  fettuccine  Alfredo  with  garlic  bread  and  arugula  salad.  Noth-  ing  too  fancy.  I  take  Andrew  to  the  Key  Food  and  tie  him  up  outside,  re-  turn  the  empty  bottles.  Stash  likes  Coca-Cola,  Cracker  Jack,  eats  marsh-  mallows  out  of  the  bag.  Well,  I'm  getting  used  to  it.  He  still  complains  a  lot  if  I  leave  makeup  on  the  back  of  the  toilet.  He  kept  saying,  &quot;Eleanor,  look  at  this  [REDACTED];  until  I  pointed  out  to  him  he  was  regressing  to  his  Catholic  childhood.  I  forget  what  else  bugs  him.  If  I  do  the  dishes  and  there's,  let's  say,  a  little  spot  of  grease  on  the  floor  from  where  I  carried  the  roasting  pan  over  to  the  garbage  pail  -this  just  drives  him  crazy.  Clothes-if  I  leave  any  clothes  out,  or  if  after  I  wash  them  I  put  them  away  where  he  can't  find  them.  If  I  buy  the  wrong  kind  of  de-  odorant-why,  he  has  to  take  fifteen  minutes  to  explain  to  me  why  he  only  uses  deodorant  and  not  antiperspirant.  An-  tiperspirant  clogs  up  the  pores  and  prevents  you  from  perspiring,  it's  un-  healthy,  whereas  de-  odorant  just  masks  the  odor.  Well,  it's  his  apartment,  and  if  we  have  a  fight  or  some-  thing  I  sometimes  get  this  panicky  feeling:  Where  the  hell  am  I  going  to  go?  I  have  a  couple  of  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  girlfriends  in  the  city.  One  is  rent-  ingout  her  second  bedroom  for  six  hundred  and  fifty  dollars  a  month.  The  other  has  a  three-year-old  baby,  and  I'm  sure  she'd  be  glad  if  I  slept  on  her  couch  in  the  living  room  in  return  for  day-care  services  or  whatever,  but  would  I  be  better  off?  Anyway,  I'm  trying  to  learn  how  to  get  along  with  a  man.  SO  what  happens  is,  I  went  out  to  this  party  without  Stash.  He  wasn't  feeling  too  well,  and  once  in  a  while  Ireally  make  an  attempt  to  go  out  without  him.  It's  one  of  the  most  difficult  things  in  the  world  for  me  to  do.I'd  much  rather  go  out  with  him,  and  when  he's  saying  hello  to  all  his  friends  I  can  kind  of  lurk  behind  him  and  smile  every  once  in  a  while,  but  I  don't  actually  have  to  come  up  with  anything  tosey.  For  instance,  at  a  night  club  some  guy  comes  over-  well,  he  isn't  talking  to  me,  he's  talk-  ing  to  Stash,  about  business  or  the  softball  team  they  both  play  on.  What  do  I  have  to  say?  I  don't  have  any-  thing  to  say.  Anyway,  this  party  was  a  house-  warming  for  this  couple,  Mona  and  Phil.  I  didn't  know  them  too  well.  They  had  just  found  a  new  apartment  on  Fourteenth  Street,  fifteen  hundred  dollars  a  month-Mona  had  some  money  from  her  parents-a  real  find,  a  sixth-floor  walkup,.  Phil  was  a  carpen-  ter,  and  so  he  could  install  the  toilet  and  fixtures  himself.  Most  of  their  boxes  and  stuff  hadn't  yet  been  un-  packed.  For  a  while  I  sat  on  the  couch  drinking  a  Margarita  that  had  been  mixed  up  in  a  blender  and  listening  to  Mona's  motherand  father  talk  about  their  trip  to  4368696e61.  They  had  de-luxe  accommodations  at  some  hotel  in  Peking,  and  there  was  a  lottery  among  the  members  oftheir  tour  group,  and  Mona's  mother  and  father  won  and  got  to  stay  in  the  Grand  Suite,  which  had  a  fully  stocked  liquor  bar.  When  I  finished  listening  to  them,  I  turned  aroundand  there  was  a  totally  stunning  man  sitting  on  a  chair  next  to  me  eating  some  [REDACTED]  Fried  Chicken.  Mona  and  her  husband,  Phil,  had  made  their  own  dipping  sauce,  but  since  they  were  in  the  mid-  dle  of  moving  they  went  out  and  got  the  chicken  at  [REDACTED]  and  arranged  it  in  a  linen-covered  basket.  I  wasn't  eating  anything.  I  had  already  made  dinner  for  myself  and  Stash,  and  be-  cause  he  wasn't  feeling  well  I  kept  the  meal  simple  and  just  served  homemade  black-bean  soup  with  macaroni-and-  cheese  and  a  small  salad.  I  felt  sort  of  annoyed  at  first  when  I  saw  this  guy  eating  fried  chicken  and  staring  at  me,  because  it  occurred  to  me  that  (a)  he  was  far  too  gorgeous,  with  his  green  eyes  and  curly  black  hair,  and  (b)  he  was  probably  an  actor,  because  he  seemed  to  be  reenacting  the  dinner  scene  from  &quot;Tom  Jones,&quot;  that  old  movie  with  Albert  Finney.  Stash  al-  ways  tells  me  I  have  &quot;buggywhip&quot;  arms,  and  it  made  me  uncomfortable  the  way  this  guywas  eating  a  scrawny  chicken  wing  and  looking  at  me.  You  know,  I  just  wanted  to  tell  him  to  knock  it  off  and  be  a  person.  He  introduced  himself  and  we  started  talking.  It  was  the  first  time  in  ages  I  had  talked  to  a  man,  other  than  Stash.  Stash  is  half  Polish  and  half  Italian,  so  conversation  between  the  sexes  doesn't  go  over  so  good  with  him.  This  guy's  name  was  Mikell  and  he  was  from  [REDACTED]  Africa  and  wrote  novels,  political-type  novels,  so  he  had  been  thrown  out  of  the  country  some  time  back.  They  didn't  actually  throw  him  out,  they  just  confiscated  a  work  in  progress.  I  asked  him  if  he  knew  Jimmy  Gwynne,  who  is  from  Cape     Town,  and  naturally  Mikell  knew  Jimnmy-in  fact,  he  had  shared  a  flat  with  him  in  [REDACTED]  about  six  years  ago.  He  had  come  to  the  party  with  Millie,  who  I  had  always  wanted  to  meet-Millie  was  one  of  the  few  suc-  cessful  women  painters  in  New  York.  So  I  said  hello  to  Millie,  and  it  turned  out  we  had  gone  to  the  same  college  but  at  different  times  and  she  had  graduated  some  eight  years  before  me.  I  never  thought  Mikell  and  Millie  were  actually  together,  I  thought  they  just  came  to  the  party  at  the  same  time.  Whatever.  Millie  excused  her-  self,  and  Mikell  went  back  to  talking  to  me.  As  it  happened,  I  gaveMikell  my  address  and  phone  number  without  bothering  to  mention  that  I  lived  with  someone.  Let  me  tell  you,  at  this  point  there  was  nothing  devious  going  on  in  my  head.  Stash  was  always  encourag-  ing  me  to  develop  a  life  of  my  own.  This  Mikell  had  eyesthat  were  tru-  ly  sickening-green  pools  like  you  never  see  and  never  want  to  see:  when  he  looked  at  you,  it  made  you  weak  in  the  knees,  which  in  actual  fact  made  me  mad.  So  I  didn't  respond-I  mean,  come  on  already,  I  didn't  let  my  knees  get  weak,  I  just  talked  to  Mikell  like  he  was  one  of  my  girlfriends.  Come  to  think  of  it,  that  was  the  only  " b"24  way  I  knew  how  to  talk  to  anyone  anymore.  A  few  days  later,  after  Stash  had  gone  off  to  work,  Mikell  called,  and  I  agreed  to  meet  him  for  a  cup  of  coffee.  It  turned  out  he  lived  only  a  few  blocks  away.  I  sat  in  the  back  corner  of  the  White  Horse  Tavern,  hoping  no  one  would  be  able  to  see  me  if  they  walked  past  the  window  and  report  me  to  Stash  or  anything.  Mikell  showed  up.  Such  white  teeth,  like  you  wouldn't  believe  (they  must  have  something  in  the  water  over  there  in  [REDACTED]  Africa),  and  those  eyes  -brilliant  green  (maybe  he  wore  con-  tact  lenses).  I  couldn't  even  believe  it.  He  had  a  copy  of  his  novel  for  me.  It  had  been  published  in  [REDACTED],  and  he  was  looking  for  an  American  publisher.  It  was  called  &quot;Registered  Alien.&quot;  After  a  while,  I  had  to  explain  that  I  lived  with  a  person,  and  Mikell  asked  me  how  it  was  going.  I  said  O.K.,  but  that  my  dream  was  that  someday  I  would  get  some  bucks  and  then  maybe  I  could  move  out.  I  said  I  got  along  all  right  with  Stash,  but  he  never  wanted  to  have  anyone  over,  we  had  no  couch,  just  a  bed,  all  his  stuff  was  all  over  the  place,  it  hadn't  been  painted  inten  years,  and  my  dream  was  to  have  a  real  apartment,  maybe  with  a  little  terrace,  geraniums,  and  then  I'd  have  dinner  parties  for  eight  or  ten  every  once  in  a  while.  Well,  it  turned  out  that  Mikell  lived  with  Millie.  They  had  met  in  L.A.  Millie  went  out  there  for  a  show  and  Mikell  was  living  there  reading  screenplays  for  some  production  com-  pany.  So  Mikell  invited  Millie  to  [REDACTED]  Africa,  she  met  his  mother,  and  they  got  along  really  well.  Mikell  took  Millie  to  meet  some  Zulus  and  she  dancedwith  them,  they  stayed  up  all  night  drinking  some  local  concoction,  and  Millie  had  a  great  time.  When  Millie  went  back  to  New  York,  she  invited  Mikell  to  move  in  with  her-  New  York  was  where  the  publishing  was.  Mikell  said  yes,  they  got  along  great,  there  was  only  one  problem,  which  was  that  they  fought  all  the  time.  What  the  situation  was,  Millie  owned  her  own  co-op,  and  her  former  boyfriend,  during  the  time  they  were  engaged  to  be  married,  had  purchased  the  co-op  next  to  hers,  and  they  had  torn  down  the  walls  between  the  two  apartments.  So  now  Millie's  former  boyfriend  rented  out  his  halfof  the  space  to  Mikell  at  a  very,  very  tiny  rent,  a  rent  so  small  that  even  though  Mikell  was  absolutely  broke  he  was  " b"  able  to  afford  living  in  New  York,  which  was  where  he  wanted  to  be.  The  reason  the  former  boyfriend  rented  out  his  half  of  the  co-op  to  Mikell  at  such  a  reduced  rate  was  that  it  would  have  cost  a  fortune  to  rebuild  the  walls  between  the  two  apartments,  and  Millie  absolutely  refused  to  live  with  a  complete  stranger.  But  it  was  lucky  for  Mikell  that  Millie  didn't  consider  him  a  complete  stranger,  oth-  erwise  he  would  have  had  to  go  back  to  Los  Angeles  and  hisjob,  when  that  was  something  he  had  nothing  for  but  contempt.  We  both  just  sat  there.  Mikell  put  his  hand  over  mine.  It  wasn't  a  sexual  thing,  not  really,  it  was  just  the  two  of  us  sitting  there  at  a  wooden  table  in  the  White  Horse  Tavern,  looking  at  each  other  and  sitting  there.  We  were  both  in  the  same  position.  Things  might  have  been  different  if  one  of  us  had  our  own  apartment.  It  wasn't  that  Mikell  wasn't  very  fond  of  Millie-he  was.  But  they  had  a  lot  of  fights,  and  he  wasn't  allowed  to  go  out  by  himself  at  night,  and  Millie  didn't  feel  like  going  out  all  that  often,  and  Mikell  would  have  liked  to  be  able  to  see  some  of  the  New  York  scene  now  that  he  was  finally  here.  When  we  got  up  to  leave,  I  let  Mikell  pay  for  my  espresso.  He  said  he  would  call  me  in  a  couple  of  days.  I  asked  him  only  tocall  between  the  hours  of  eleven  and  one,  when  I  could  be  certain  that  Stash  would  be  out.  I  asked  him  to  sign  his  novel.  He  wrote,  &quot;To  Eleanor  by  the  River,  with  love  from  Mikell.&quot;  So  I  said,  &quot;Listen,  why  don't  you  write  down  your  number,  in  case  I  have  to  give  you  a  call?&quot;  IT  was  all  totally  out  in  the  open.  I  just  wanted  to  keep  him  like  a  girl-  friend,  and  that  was  why  I  told  Stash  about  meeting  Mikell.  I  figured  that  things  could  never  work  out  between  me  and  Mikell  because  we  were  both  in  the  same  position,  but  maybe  as  a  foursome  I  could  be  friends  with  Mil-  lie  and  Stash  could  go  shoot  pool  with  Mikell.  It  was  important  to  bring  new  people  into  a  relationship,  to  make  new  friends,  and  if  you're  part  of  a  couple,  well,  then  it's  easier  to  have  new  friends  who  are  also  acouple.  Stash  almost  had  a  nervous  break-  down.  For  two  days  he  wouldn't  speak  to  me,  then  he  started  screaming.  He  told  me  to  go  move  out  so  I  could  start  sleeping  with  this  guy,  and  said  how  dare  I  bring  home  little  love  notes  from  some  cretin.  I  said,  &quot;Well,  Stash,  I  wouldn't  " b"26  have  told  you  about  itif  there  was  anything  going  on.  All  I  did  was  tell  Mikell  about  youand  how  great  you  are,  and  he  talked  about  Millie.&quot;  Stash  said,  &quot;Don't  give  me  that,  that's  how  it  begins-you  go  out  and  talk  to  each  other  about  your  relation-  ships  and  then  jump  into  bed  with  each  other.  Maybe  we  should  just  end  this,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'You're  beginning  to  bore  me.&quot;  This  went  on  all  day.  I  started  cry-  ing.  I  said,  &quot;If  you  want  me  to  leave,  then  I  won't  stay  here  any  longer.  You  know  how  much  I  love  you,  and  I  can't  understand  your  reaction.&quot;  I  said,  &quot;I  thought  you'd  really  likethis  guy-he's  interested  in  seeing  your  paintings,  and  I  thought  I  could  be  friends  with  her.&quot;  &quot;Who?&quot;  Stash  said.  &quot;The  girlfriend,&quot;  I  said.  Stash  said,  &quot;You  want  me  to  call  her  up  and  go  out  with  her?  Is  that  what  you  want'  Fine.  You're  doing  this  out  of  insecurity.  What  is  it  about  you  I  hate  the  most?&quot;  &quot;My  messiness?&quot;  I  said.  (\xe2\x80\x98N0.))  &quot;My  personality?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Your  insecurity.  That's  what  I  hate  about  you  the  most.  You  are  so  damn  insecure.  Why  don't  you  stop?&quot;  I  couldn't  figure  it  out.I  mean,  I'm  insecure,  but  I  couldn't  see  how  this  related.  My  having  coffee  with  a  man  didn't  seem  to  illustrate  this  character  defect.  I  cried  all  day  Sunday,  and  Stash  went  out  with  his  friends  and  played  softball.  Mikell  called  at  twelve-thirty.  I  tried  to  sound  bright  and  happy.  He  really  was  intelligent,  and  it  was  be-  yond  me  how  Millie  could  ever  think  of  anything  to  argue  with  him  about.  I  wanted  tosee  him  for  coffee,  except  my  eyes  were  all  swollen  up.  I  just  broke  down  and  told  him  how  things  had  been  hell  around  here  for  three  days,  how  Stash  went  insane  because  I  told  him  I  had  gone  out  for  coffee  with  a  man.  Mikell  said,  &quot;Actually,  that's  what's  been  going  on  around  here.  She's  gone  totally  out  of  her  mind.&quot;  There  was  a  silence.  I  said,  &quot;Well,  let's  meet  for  coffee  tomorrow.&quot;  He  said,  &quot;I  can't.  How  about  Wednesday?&quot;  I  said,  &quot;Let  me  call  you  in  the    morning,  since  I'm  not  sure  if  I  can  make  it.&quot;  There  was  a  silence.  He  said  it  would  be  better  if  I  didn't  call  him.  We  didget  to  meet  one  other  time.  It  was  really  sad.  After  that,  I  bumped  into  him  once  at  the  bank.  He  was  with  Millie,  and  she  gave  me  a  strange  smile.  I  had  no  makeup  on,  and  I  was  wearing  my  glasses,  which  were  pointy  and  had  little  rhinestones  at  the  corners,  and  maybe  she  only  half  recognized  me.  I  mean,  at  the  party,  the  one  other  time  she  had  seen  me,  I  had  been  wearing  my  contact  lenses  and  had  on  a  lot  of  my  original  jewelry,  things  like  my  James  Bond/  Oddjob  necklace-and-earring  set.  When  Millie  went  to  use  the  cash  ma-  chine,  Mikell  came  over  to  me  and  asked  if  I  was  going  home  after  the  bank.  Luckily,  when  I  got  home  Stash  wasn't  there,  and  Mikell  called  a  few  minutes  later.  We  spoke  briefly.  Mi-  kell  said  things  would  be  best  if  we  didn't  speak  for  a  while.  He  was  talk-  ing  in  a  whisper.  I  said,  &quot;But  Mikell,  I  must  meet  you  to  continue  our  mad,  passionate  affair.&quot;  There  was  a  moment  of  silence.  &quot;Just  kidding,&quot;  I  said.  After  that,  whenever  Stash  was  home  in  the  afternoons  I  just  prayed  the  phone  wouldn't  ring.  I  tried  to  keep  the  apartment  clean.  My  mother  lived  upstate  in  a  one-  bedroom  apartment.  I  couldn't  escape  to  her.  I  got  up  at  seven-thirty  to  walk  Andrew.  Things  went  O.K.  Stash  bought  me  a  coat,  Day-Glo  orange  wool  with  a  green  velvet  collar.  It  wasn't  the  one  I  would  have  chosen-  I  guess  I  would  have  selected  some-  thing  a  little  more  conservative.  But  it  was  nice  to  have  a  new  winter  coat.  MY  friend  Abby  called  me  up  from  [REDACTED].  She  was  all  hysterical.  It's  like  this:  She's  been  living  with  this  guy  for  a  few  years.  He  was  an  art  director  for  an  advertising  agency,  and  she  has  a  good  job  teaching  at  Sim-  mons,  tenure.  But  it's  Roger's  house,  an  old  Back  Bay  brownstone  that  he's  fixed  up,  and  now  he's  lost  his  job  and  he  wants  her  to  start  making  some  financial  contribution,  but  he  still  doesn't  want  to  marry  her.  Just  at  this  time  Abby's  old  flame  reappears.  He  wants  her  to  move  to  New  York  and  live  with  him.  &quot;What  are  you  going  to  do?&quot;  I  said.  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  Abby  said  that  even  though  this  old  flame,     Bruce,  was  a  jerk,  she     was  bored  with  [REDACTED]  and  Roger.  &quot;I  could  live  in  New  York  with  Bruce,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;and  fly  up  to  [REDACTED]  to  teach  oneday  a  week,  and  maybe  I'll  meet  someone  I  like  better  than  Bruce  in  New  York.&quot;  I  said,  &quot;Abby,  don't  do  it.  In  the  old  days,  marriages  were  ar-  ranged  by  the  parents,  and  maybe  you  ended  up  with  a  jerk  but  at  least  you  had  the  secu-  rity  of  marriage,  no  one  could  dump  you  out  on  the  street.  In  today's  world,  it's  the  slave  system.  If  you  live  with  this  guy  in  New  York,  you'll  be  the  slave.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Well,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;I'm  used  to  Roger  cooking  for  me.  Would  I  have  to  cook  for  Bruce?&quot;  She  already  knew  all  about  my  dinner  menus,  the  frantic  dai-  ly  preparations.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;You'd  have  to  cook  for  Bruce.  What  are  you  going  to  do  if  you  two  have  a  fight  and  he  tells  you  to  leave?  With  your  salary,  you'll  never  be  able  tofind  an  apartment.&quot;  &quot;I  know  Bruce  is  a  creep,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;But  I  thought  I'd  be  with  him  while  I  looked  for  someone  else.&quot;  I  said,  &quot;Abby,  forget  it.  You  think  you'll  be  making  an  improvement,  but  that's  not  the  case.&quot;  I  didn't  want  to  tell  her  this  before,  because  I  didn't  know  the  situation  with  Roger,  but  quite  frankly  it  didn't  sound  so  bad.  I  said,  &quot;If  you  live  with  Bruce,  you'll  be  the  slave.  It's  not  the  same  in  other  cities,  the  rents  aren'tso  high.  Roger  doesn't  have  the  same  power  overyou,  because  you  could  always  threaten  to  move  out  and  get  your  own  place  in  [REDACTED].&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  know,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I'm  go-  ing  to  reconsider.  Are  you  sure  there're  no  available  men  in  New  [REDACTED];  &quot;There're  women,&quot;&quot;  I  said.  &quot;There're  hundreds  of  women.  They  are  out  on  the  prowl.  And  all  the  men  are  gay  or  are  in  the  slave  class  them-  selves.  Your  only  solution  is  to  get  rich,  so  you  can  get  an  apartment  and  then  you  can  haveyour  own  slave.  He  would  be  poor  but  amenable.&quot;  &quot;Are  these  women,  the  ones  that  are  prowling-are  they  attractive?&quot;  Abby  said.  I  could  tell  she  hadn't  been  listen-  ing.  &quot;Abby,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It's  New  York.  They  have  seventy-dollar  haircuts  and  wear  black  leather  belts  with  sterling,  silver  buckles.&quot;  &quot;Oh,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;How  are  things  otherwise?&quot;  &quot;Stash  and  I  are  getting  along  very  well,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;He  just  bought  me  a  new  winter  coat.  I  should  probably  go.  Andrew  needs  his  walkies.&quot;  After  I  hung  up,  I  thought  about  what  I  should  have  told  Abby:  See,  Fat  and  Fat  Fat  fell  out,  and  in  New  York  all  that's  left  is  Pinch  Me.  But  I'm  not  sure  she  would  have  under-  stood.  I  remembered  when  my  brother  Roland  was  five  he  wore  these  little   boots  with  metal  toe  caps  and  after  my  cousin  told  him  the  joke  and  pinched  him  my  brother  kicked  him.  My  cousin  was  really  enraged  at  Roland's  behavior  and  called  up  my  mother  to  complain.  He  had  a  black-and-blue  mark.  My  mother  was  ashamed:  obvi-  ously  she  was  doing  something  all  wrong  in  her  child-rearing  practices.  Now  Roland  is  a  first-year  resident  in  obstetrics/gynecology  down  in  [REDACTED].  "