 b"FARID couldn't  believe  what  he  Fheard  about  Farida.  She  was  his  wife,  and  he  would  have  thought  that  no  one  had  known  her  more  deeply,  in  every  way,  than  he  had.  But  now,  they  said,  she  was  a  holy  woman  sitting  under  a  tree  in  some  holy  place  in  the  Himalayas,  and  people  came  from  all  over  496e646961  to  take  blessings  and  good  vibrations  from  her.  Ludicrous,  he  thought.  She  might  fool  all  the  world,  but  she  couldn't  fool  him.  Or  could  she?  He  hadn't  seen  her  for  twenty  years.  He  still  lived  in  [REDACTED],  in  the  flat  they  had  rented  long  ago  when  they  had  first  come  to  England  as  newly-  weds.  It  was  just  one  room,  badly  par-  titioned  into  two,  with  a  makeshift  kitchen  and  bathroom  wedged  in  be-  tween,  but  the  address  was  good,  be-  hind  Harrods,  so  Farid  hung  on.  The  place  was  falling  into  decay.  The  landlord  had  been  trying  to  get  him  out  for  years  and  refused  to  make  any  repairs.  Farid  couldn't  afford  to  go  anywhere  else.  He  had  not  got  on  and  now  never  would,  and  no  longer  cared.  He  was  in  his  fifties  and  slov-  enly,  fat  from  drinking  too  much.  In  his  youth,  in  496e646961,  he  had  been  exquisite,  and  so  had  Farida-both  of  them  small-boned,  elegant,  quick  in  mind  and  body.  Much  had  been  ex-  pected  of  them,  and  they  were  con-  fident  of  living  up  to  these  expecta-  tions.  Their  families  were  not  rich  but  were  very  old;  the  overgrown  gardens  of  their  decaying  mansions  in  496e646961  abutted  on  each  other,  and  from  their  earliest  childhood  Farid  and  Farida  had  gone  back  and  forth  through  a  gap  in  the  boundary  wall.  They  grew  up  and  of  course  fell  in  love;  now  they  met  not  only  among  the  flowering  jasmine  bushes  of  their  own  gardens  but  also  at  the  university,  with  its  stone-flagged  corridors  and  courtyards.  They  graduated,  they  married,  they  went  to  live  in  [REDACTED].  They  felt  they  needed  a  wider  horizon  for  their  talent,  which  lay  mainly  in  their  own  personalitiese-in  their  in-  tense  496e646961nness,  which  at  that  time  was  regarded,  in  the  self-deprecating  countries  of  the  West,  as  synonymous  with  every  kind  of  natural  and  spiri-  tual  superiority.  Using  their  charm  and  their  con-  tacts,  Farid  and  Farida  had  attempted  to  set  up  a  business  importing  hand-  loomed  496e646961n  textiles.  It  failed  to  prosper,  and  they  became  impresarios  for  visiting  496e646961n  musicians  and  dancers,  and  when  these  turned  out  to  be  unreliable  and  ungrateful  they  tried,  in  succession,  ready-made  In-  dian  garments,  hand-crafted  496e646961n  jewelry,  496e646961n  lampshades,  496e646961n  bedcovers,  and  496e646961n  table  linen-  all  those  indigenous  handicrafts  by  which  others  of  their  countrymen,  far  less  gifted  than  Farid  and  Farida,  made  their  fortunes  in  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  and  New  York.  Ten  years  passed,  then  fifteen.  They  were  still  living  in  the  temporary  flat  they  had  rented,  and  the  landlord  began  trying  to  get  them  out.  Farid  was  drinking.  Farida  stayed  out  late  and  went  away  for  weekends;  their  erotic  quarrels  had  turned  into  bitter  fights.  They  had  no  money,  they  hated  each  other.  One  night,  she  packed  up  and  returned  to  496e646961.  He  stayed  on,  drank  on--and  survived,  but  only  just.  After  he  heard  that  she  had  become  a  holy  woman,  he  kept  muttering  \xc2\xab&quot;We'll  see  about  that.&quot;  He  didn't  know  what  he  meant;  he  was  a  person  impelled  by  instinct  rather  than  thought.  This  impelled  him  one  day  to  go  to  Sunil's  elegant  offices,  where  he  had  to  wait  in  the  outer  reception  area  before  finally  being  admitted,  as  a  spe-  cial  favor  to  an  old  friend.  Sunil  sat  behind  his  desk  and  looked  at  the  watch  on  his  hairy  wrist  and  said,  \xc2\xab&quot;Ten  minutes,  Farid.&quot;  Although  he  was  without  charm  or  contacts  or  aes-  thetic  sensibility,  Sunil  had  become  rich  from  the  very  hand  looms  and  handicrafts  that  had  broken  Farid's  back  and  spirit.  When  they  had  all  been  students  together  in  496e646961,  Farid  and  Farida  had  laughed  at  Sunil,  who  was  ridiculously  in  love  with  Farida.  At  that  time,  when  Farid  was  slim  and  beautiful,  Sunil  was  fat  and  ungainly.  He  hadn't  changed,  but  now  he  had  the  best  tailors  and  shirtmakers  to  help  him,  and  he  exuded  confidence  and  eau  de  cologne.  Farid  still  addressed  him  in  the  condescending  tone  that  he  and  Farida  had  always  used  toward  him.  Sunil  was  too  busy  to  notice.  He  got  rid  of  Farid  within  the  scheduled  ten  minutes,  though  not  without  handing  over  the  check  to  cover  the  air  fare  to  496e646961  and  expenses.  Sunil  had  also  heard  about  Farida,  but  he  didn't  laugh  at  the  news.  As  was  his  habit,  he  would  wait  and  see.  WHEN  Farid  found  her,  Farida  really  was  sitting  under  a  tree.  She  was  in  a  pure  white  sari,  and  she  looked  the  way  she  always  did:  su-  premely  elegant.  Trust  her,  Farid  thought  bitterly.  Apart  from  her  astonishing  situation,  she  really  was  the  same  Farida-God  knew  how  she  did  it.  She  was  now  in  her  fifties,  but  sitting  there  in  the  lotus  position  she  looked  as  slim,  lithe,  and  upright  as  ever.  Her  hair-dyed,  no  doubt-was  black;  her  skin  was  clear  and  shone  with  a  radiance  that  could  only  be  the  result  of  the  best  cosmetics,  applied,  he  knew,  with  consummate  skill.  She  was  surrounded  by  four  or  five  handmaid-  ens,  as  exquisitely  draped  in  orange  as  she  was  in  white,  and  pilgrims  came  and  went,  touching  her  feet  in  rever-  ence.  She  sat  on  the  deerskin  tradi-  tional  to  holy  people,  and  someone  stood  behind  her  waving  a  fly  whisk.  If  a  fly  happened  to  land  on  her,  Farida  waited  for  it  to  be  flicked  off.  Her  hands  were  folded  in  her  lap,  and  she  fingered  a  string  of  prayer  beads  in  the  same  way,  it  occurred  to  Farid,  that  she  had  once  fingered  her  pieces  of  jewelry,  before  they  were  sold  off,  one  by  one,  to  cover  expenses  in  Lon-  don.  Farid  regarded  the  scene  from  a  distance.  The  tree-a  huge  banyan-  spread  its  foliage  over  Farida  and  her  handmaidens,  but  the  people  lining  up  to  see  her  had  to  stand  outside  in  the  sun  until  it  was  their  turn  to  be  admit-  ted  into  the  shade  of  the  tree.  Farid  watched  her  as  she  dealt  with  the  pil-  grims.  To  some  she  spoke  at  length,  while  others  she  only  lightly  touched  as  they  bowed  down  to  her;  a  few  favored  ones  were  handed  some  holy  talisman  by  a  handmaiden.  But  every-  one  appeared  to  come  away  fully  satis-  fied,  for  Farida  radiated  blessing.  Fa-  rid  couldn't  help  admiring  her;  he  had  often  told  her  that  she  would  have  made  a  first-rate  actress.  At  last  he  approached  the  tree  and  lined  up  with  the  other  pilgrims.  When  it  was  his  turn  to  be  led  up  toher,  he  didn't  bow,  like  the  others,  but  stood  and  looked  " b"down  on  her,  one  hand  on  his  hip.  She  looked  up  at  him  and  met  his  cynical  smile  with  an  ambiguous  one  of  her  own.  She  made  it  seem  as  if  she  had  been  expecting  him,  even  after  twenty  years.  They  kept  on  looking  at  each  other,  and  he  felt  the  challenge  that  had  always  lain  between  them.  She  looked  away  first,  turning  around  to  a  handmaiden  to  murmur  some  command.  Straightaway,  he  was  led  off  and  installed  in  a  whitewashed  little  cell  in  one  of  a  chain  of  plain  brick  structures  that  rambled  all  over  the  mountainside.  These  constituted  an  ashram,  and  of  course  the  accom-  modations  were  of  the  simplest,  but  everything  was  clean,  pleasant,  and  orderly.  He  decided  to  stay  on,  at  least  for  a  while.  There  was  little  expense  to  him,  he  discovered-in  fact,  none  at  all-which  was  just  as  well,  because  Sunil's  money  wasn't  going  to  last  for-  ever.  He  couldn't  say  he  was  uncom-  fortable.  Within  a  day  or  two,  he  real-  ized  that  he  was  being  treated  as  an  honored  guest.  Regular  meals  were  brought  to  him  on  a  tray,  and  there  was  always  someone  hovering  around  to  see  if  he  needed  anything;  someone  even  brought  him  his  cigarettes  from  the  bazaar.  He  decided  to  treat  the  whole  thing  as  a  holiday-a  well-  deserved  one,  at  that,  for  God  knew  he'd  had  a  pretty  rough  struggle  to  keep  himself  going,  while  Farida  ap-  parently  had  experienced  no  difficul-  ty  landing  on  her  feet.  She  was  his  wife,  after  all,  and  if  good  fortune  had  come  her  way  it  was  no  more  than  right  that  he  should  have  some  modest  share  of  it.  The  days  passed  as  evenly  for  him  as  they  did  for  everyone  else.  The  place  had  its  own  rhythm.  It  was  a  traditional  sacred  spot-almost  as  sa-  cred  as  Banaras-and  there  were  other  holy  people  like  Farida  living  there.  They  were  Hindus  and  she  was  a  Muslim,  but  that  didn't  matter.  Allah  and  Ishwar  were  equal  here,  and  no  one  questioned  which  one  of  them  was  responsible  for  the  mountain  peaks  ris,  ing  against  the  immaculate  sky,  or  the  sun  that  set  in  orange  glory  on  one  side  and  rose  in  pink  effulgence  on  the  other.  Cymbals  and  temple  bells  rang  out  at  regular  intervals,  and  everyone  hurried  smiling  to  a  variety  of  little  white  shrines  and  temples  adorned  with  flags  and  garlands.  Not  Farid,  of  course-he  didn't  go  in  for  anything  like  that.  Instead,  he  took  little  walks  in  the  mornings  and  the  late  afternoons,  climbing  up  a  green  path  till  he  got  tired  and  began  panting,  which  was  quite  soon.  At  night,  he  slept  on  a  string  cot  in  his  whitewashed  cell.  They  had  given  him  an  old  electric  table  fan,  which  kept  him  moderately  cool,  though  he  could  have  wished  it  made  lessclatter.  When  he  got  tired  of  the  vegetarian  meals  they  brought  him,  he  wandered  down  into  the  little  bazaar  at  the  foot  of  the  hill  and  ate  a  meat  curry  at  one  of  the  stalls  there  and  had  some  worldly  conversation  with  the  shopkeepers  and  customers.  Once,  he  went  into  the  town  cinema,  together  with  the  other  town  loafers,  and  saw  one  of  those  long,  loud  Hindi  films,  which  he  enjoyed  more  than  a  sophisticated  person  like  himself  should  have.  Once  a  day,  he  visited  Farida  under  her  tree.  When  she  asked  him  whether  everything  was  to  his  satisfaction,  he  replied  with  a  shrug  that  suggested  he  neither  asked  for  nor  got  much.  Altogether,  he  con-  veyed  the  impression  that  he  was  do-  ing  her  a  favor  by  being  there  at  all.  He  was  waiting  for  a  showdown  with  her.  He  expected  it.  They  had  always  had  showdowns-explosions  ignited  by  the  fuel  of  their  fiery  tem-  peraments.  In  their  youth  these  up-  heavals  had  ended  in  excited  lovemak-  ing,  but  later,  during  the  years  in  [REDACTED],  the  showdowns  had  become  a  release  from  the  tensions  not  of  love  but  of  failure  and  frustration.  They  lived  in  misery.  Their  flat  was  horri-  bly  cramped  and  always  smelled  of  cabbage  and  mutton  from  their  English  neighbors'  cooking.  (They  them-  selves  had  given  up  on  cooking  and  only  opened  cans  and  frozen  packets.)  The  flat  also  held  the  odors  of  Fa-  rida's  scents  and  lotions  and  of  the  dregs  of  Farid's  drinks.  It  was  no  wonder  that,  in  their  last  years  together,  Farida  had  gone  away  as  often  as  possible.  She  told  him  she  went  to  follow  up  useful  contacts  though  these  were  vague  by  now,  for  they  no  longer  had  definite  plans  but  just  lived  on  in  the  hope  of  something  turning  up.  It  was  when  she  came  back  from  one  of  these  expeditions  that  they  hadhad  their  final  quarrel.  He  had  been  alone  in  the  flat  all  weekend,  drinking.  His  eyes  hurt,  his  head  felt  huge,  and  now  he  lay  on  the  bed  watching  her  brush  her  hair  in  front  of  the  mirror.  He  could  see  her  smiling  to  herself  in  a  secret,  sensuous  way.  He  " b"began  to  taunt  her,  asking  her  ques-  tions  about  where  she  had  spent  the  weekend  and  taking  pleasure  in  trap-  ping  her  in  discrepancies.  Actually,  she  wasn't  very  careful  about  herex-  cuses  anymore  and  presented  them  to  him  with  a  take-it-or-leave-it  indiffer-  ence.  But  that  day  he  persisted  and  she  became  angry,  which  was  what  he  had  wanted,  for  why  should  she  be  smiling  that  way  when  he  was  feeling  so  rot-  ten?  In  the  past,  in  their  years  of  happi-  ness,  he  had  known  just  how  to  wind  her  up  sothat  she  flashed  and  blazed  in  a  pleasurable  way.  Later,  he  began  to  miss  his  mark,  and  that  was  what  hap-  pened  that  day.  Before  he  knew  where  he  was,  with  his  sick  eyes  and  head,  she  had  jumped  up  from  the  mirror,  crashed  her  hairbrush  against  the  wall  behind  him,  and  stood  above  him  in  an  attitude  of  menace.  He  squinted  up  at  her,  mocking  and  malevolent.  Her  silk  robe,  cut  down  from  a  sari,  swung  wide  open,  and  her  full  breasts,  unconfined  by  a  brassiere,  were  be-  fore  him.  Her  breasts  had  always  been  an  exciting  contrast  to  her  small  waist  and  slender  arms,  though  not  to  her  hips,  which  also  burgeoned.  He  reached  up  his  hand  to  squeeze  one  breast,  and  sneeringly  said  that  these  fruits  must  be  damaged  by  being  han-  dled  too  often  on  too  many  weekends.  All  at  once  she  was  on  top  of  him.  She  sat  astride  his  chest  and  seized  his  hair  and  banged  his  head  up  and  down.  Even  without  a  hangover,  there  would  have  been  no  way  he  could  defend  himself  against  her.  At  that  mo-  ment,  she  was  as  irresist-  ible,  as  inexorable,  as  the  goddess  Kali,  who,  with  bared  and  dripping  fangs,  rides  her  victims  to  de-  struction.  HE  next  moment-  well,  it  came  twenty  years  later,  but  he  had  no  intervening  image-there  she  was,  holy  under  a  tree.  It  was  only  natural  that  on  his  daily  visits  he  should  continue  to  look  at  her  with  the  same  cynical,  not-to-be-fooled  expression-with  his  legs  apart  and  his  hands  on  his  hips,  ina  most  un-  reverential  posture.  She  didn't  seem  to  mind.  The  eyes  she  raised  to  him  were  absolutely  clear,  inviting  him  to  read  what  he  would  in  them.  Meanwhile,  her  other  visi-  tors,  the  pilgrims,  came  and  went,  touching  her  feet  and  taking  her  bless-  ings.  As  they  drew  near  their  faces  became  radiant,  and  they  appeared  to  retain  this  glow  as  they  departed.  Farida's  handmaidens  glided  about,  and  now  and  then  one  of  them  sang  a  song  of  spiritual  love  while  another  accompanied  her,  plucking  a  slow,  droning  sound  out  of  a  lutelike  instru-  ment.  If  Farida  felt  the  song  was  too  low-spirited-and  her  handmaidens,  so  gentle  and  good,  did  have  a  ten-  dency  to  be  that  way-then  she  herself  would  chime  in,  giving  more  of  a  swing  and  lift  to  it,  and  snapping  her  fingers,  as  if  to  say  &quot;Come  on,  let's  get  going!&quot;  Then  everybody  responded;  voices  rose,  the  drone  hastened  and  took  on  melody,  gentle  smiles  shook  off  melancholy,  and  at  the  end,  when  the  women  had  finished  in  unison  on  their  top  notes,  Farida  said,  &quot;Thet's  better,&quot;  so  that  everyone  laughed  out  loud,  and  this  sound  mingled  with  the  last  joyful  notes  still  vibrating  in  the  air.  At  home,  in  her  youth  and  heyday,  Farida  had  always  had  this  ability  to  make  a  party  go.  When  things  got  too  slow  for  her,  she  would  turn  up  the  record-player  or  replace  the  L.P.  on  it  with  a  faster  one  to  dance  to.  If  her  partner  couldn't  keep  up  with  her,  she  would  discard  him  and  try  another  and  another,  and  if  none  of  them  came  up  to  the  mark-&quot;W  hat  a  bunch  of  dum-  mies!&quot;  simply  danced  by  herself,  with  her  slippers  kicked  off  and  her  hair  and  gossamer  veil  flying,  while  everyone  stood  around  her  and  ap-  plauded.  In  [REDACTED],  too,at  the  begin-  ning  of  their  life  there,  she  and  Farid  had  given  terrific  parties,  cramming  the  flat  with  more  people  than  it  could  hold,  so  that  the  guests  spilled  into  the  kitchen,  where  Farida  was  boldly  throwing  spices  together.  She  was  always  experimenting  with  cur-  ries  she  remembered  from  her  grand-  mother's  cuisine,  and  these  usually  turned  out  extremely  well,  filling  the  flat  with  their  rich  aromas.  Everyone  sat  on  the  floor,  eating  with  their  fingers  496e646961n  style,  while  Farida  picked  her  way  among  her  friends,  putting  more  delicious  things  on  their  already  overflowing  plates  whileFarid  refilled  their  glasses,  and  both  of  them  -Farid  and  Farida-talked  in  their  high,  excited  voices,  which  could  al-  ways  be  heard  above  the  hubbub  of  their  guests.  At  that  time  it  had  been  easy  for  them  to  enjoy  themselves  and  make  everyone  else  happy,  too.  It  was  all  done  with  no  more  effort  than  the  way  Farida  made  herself  look  beautiful;  he  never  saw  her  do  more  than  glance  over  her  shoulder  into  the  mirror,  twisting  her  hair  quickly  into  a  coil  on  topof  her  head,  or  else  deciding  to  leave  it  loose  down  her  back,  with  a  rose  stuck  in  it.  Later,  how-  ever,  this  changed.  It  irritated  him  to  watch  the  painstaking  way  she  got  herself  ready  to  go  to  other  people's  parties  -by  then,  they  them-  selves  could  no  longer  afford  to  give  them-  painting  larger  lips  and  darker  eyelids  over  her  own;  she  had  begun  to  wear  curlers  at  night,  and  she  got  up  with  them  in  the  morning,  looking  cross  and  ugly.  And,  just  as  she  had  to  take  pains  over  her  ap-  pearance,  she  had  to  work  harder  to  be  suc-  cessful  at  these  parties.  Now  when  she  cried  " b" &quot;Come  on,  let's  get  going!&quot;  no  one  seemed  to  hear  her  or  pay  attention.  Her  voice  became  shrill,  her  laugh  harsher  and  louder.  When  she  had  decided  who  was  worth  her  attention  at  a  party,  she  would  hang  on  to  his  arm  with  her  skinny  hands.  Often  it  was  Sunil  on  whom  she  concentrated  at  parties.  He  was  getting  to  be  the  richest  and  most  successful  of  their  circle.  Once,  he  had  mooned  after  Farida  in  a  dogged,  hopeless  way,  but  now  he  liked  plump  Scandinavian  blondes,  who  sometimes  perched  on  his  lap.  Farida,  ignoring  them,  would  bring  some  tidbit  for  him  from  the  buffet  table  and  dangle  it  above  him  until  he  opened  his  mouth  to  receive  it;  she  cried  &quot;Good  boy!&quot;  and  clapped  her  hands,  while  he  chewed  with  indiffer-  ent  relish.  It  sickened  Farid  to  watch  this,  and  perhaps  it  sickened  Farida,  too,  because  when  they  got  home  she  was  in  a  rotten  mood  and  turned  her  back  on  him  and  went  to  sleep  as  if  she  never  wanted  to  get  up  again.  Somehow  she  did  get  up,  every  morning,  and  although  all  their  proj-  ects  failed,  one  after  the  other,  she  was  always  starting  new  ones.  Elegant-  ly  dressed,  meticulously  made  up,  her  jaw  somewhat  set,  she  went  out  each  day  in  pursuit  of  some  business  she  had  just  thought  up  that  was  certain  to  pull  them  out  of  their  predicament.  When  they  had  been  in  [REDACTED]  for  about  ten  years  (she  was  getting  along  into  her  thirties  by  this  time),  she  decided  to  organize  a  line  of  496e646961n  cocktail  delicacies-samosas,  pakoras,  kebabs-to  be  sold  in  the  delicatessen  departments  of  leading  [REDACTED]  stores.  She  dealt  with  the  very  fanciest  places,  and  only  with  their  top  direc-  tors;  it  was  taken  for  granted  that  no  secretary  or  any  other  underling  could  stand  in  her  way  when  she  present-  ed  herself,  without  an  appointment  but  emanating  an  almost  royal  au-  thority,  and  quickly  sailed  right  into  the  innermost  sanctum  ofthese  offices.  And  when  she  came  out  again  she  was  invariably  escorted  by  the  director  himself,  smiling  and  flattered  by  her  direct  approach  to  him.  She  gave  the  impression  that  she  was  conducting  the  affairs  of  her  own  exclusive  ca-  tering  firm-which  was  true,  in  a  way.  What  the  directors  did  not  real-  ize  was  that  she  made  all  the  delicacies  herself,  working  alone  in  the  make-  shift  kitchen  of  their  flat,  whileFarid  lay  in  bed  and  complained  about  the  smell  of  her  deep-fat  frying.  She  had  bought  a  wholesale  supply  of  cardboard  boxes,  which  stood  piled  in  their  living  room.  She  packed  them  with  delicacies  she  had  fried,  and  spent  the  rest  of  the  day  delivering  them  to  the  stores,  going  from  one  to  the  other  in  a  taxi.  By  the  third  week  of  this,  she  was  exhausted  from  her  hours  of  cook-  ing,  from  her  slow  and  expensive  de-  livery  rounds,  and  from  the  complaints  that  were  beginning  to  come  in.  Also,  it  was  becoming  evident  that  the  cost  of  the  ingredients,  the  packaging,  and  the  taxi  were  destroying  the  profit  she  had  expected,  and  one  night  when  Fa-  rid  again  complained  about  the  smell  she  marched  into  the  bedroom  with  a  pan  of  hot  oil  and  threatened  to  pour  it  on  him.  He  locked  himself  in  the  bathroom,  and  when  at  last  he  emerged  he  found  her  sitting  on  the  floor  with  the  deep-fry  pan  beside  her.  Her  knees  were  hunched  up  and  her  head  was  laid  on  them;  her  hair  was  half  uncoiled,  and  she  was  wearing  an  old  cotton  sari  spattered  with  grease.  He  grew  angry  at  the  sight  of  her.  &quot;What  are  you-a  cook  or  some-  thing?&quot;  he  shouted,  and  when  she  didn't  answer  or  stir  he  worked  him-  self  up  further.  &quot;No  one  asked  you  to  do  this  kind  of  work.  T'cha-what  would  your  parents  say,  what  would  my  parents  say,  if  they  knew?&quot;  Still  with  her  head  on  her  knees,  she  murmured,  &quot;Then  what  are  we  going  to  do?&quot;  &quot;We'll  find  something,&quot;  he  said,  her  defeat  making  him  strong.  &quot;We  don't  have  to  put  up  with  this  non-  sense.  Get  rid  of  all  that  filthy  stuff.&quot;  He  seized  her  pan  and  carried  it  into  the  bathroom  and  emptied  it  into  the  toilet.  When  she  heard  the  firm  way  in  which  he  flushed  it  away,  she  raised  her  head  and  wiped  her  eyes  with  the  end  of  her  sari  and  felt  better.  But  then  it  was  his  responsibility  to  raise  some  money  to  keep  them  going,  and  the  only  way  he  knew  was  to  borrow  from  Sunil,  as  he  had  done  so  often  over  the  years.  Sunil  received  him  in  his  Mayfair  flat,  and  Farid  looked  severely  around  the  place,  which  was  sumptuously  furnished  with  everything  that  money  and  bad  taste  could  buy.  &quot;What's  thet  pic-  ture?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Is  it  new?  Oh,  my  God.&quot;  &quot;Listen,  Farid,  it's  from  a  very  ritzy  gallery  in  Brook  Street,&quot;  Sunil  said  " b"calmly.  &quot;It  cost  me  a  packet,  I  can  tell  you.&quot;  &quot;A  fool  and  his  money  are  soon  parted.  Except  of  course  when  it  comes  to  his  friends-then  it's  a  different  story.&quot;  &quot;When  have  I  ever  said  no?&quot;  Sunil  said  in  dull  resignation.  It  was  true,  he  didn't  often  turn  down  his  old  friends,  but  that  did  not  improve  Farid's  feelings  toward  him.  Matters  grew  worse  as  the  years  passed  and  Sunil  went  up  and  Farid  down.  Farida  began  to  go  away  for  weekends.  Farid  suspected  that  she  went  to  meet  Sunil,  but  when  he  ac-  cused  her  of  this  she  just  laughed.  What  made  him  think  that  she  would  go  to  Sunil  for  anything  but  money,  she  said.  And  what  made  him  think  that  Sunil  had  any  time  left  for  her,  now  that  Sunil  was  what  he  was  and  she  was-well,  she  said  with  ashrug,  anyone  could  see  what  she  was  now.  Farid  stared  at  her.  She  was  getting  into  her  upper  thirties-they  had  been  struggling  along  in  [REDACTED]  for  a  good  fifteen  years-and  she  had  grown  very  thin.  Her  face,  under  her  lacquered  hair,  was  heavily  made  up.  But  be-  neath  it  all  she  was  still  Farida-just  as,  he  realized,  beneath  all  his  bad  feeling,  and  all  his  anger  against  her,  there  remained  still  the  heart,  the  flower,  of  love.  He  kissed  her  hand  and  then  her  wrist,  and  then  the  soft  skin  of  her  inner  arm.  She  took  advantage  of  his  good  mood  to  murmur  that  they  would  have  to  sell  some  more  jewelry.  &quot;I  need  the  money,&quot;  she  urged.  &quot;For  a  new  busi-  ness-no,  no,  this  one's  going  to  make  it  for  sure,  you'll  see.  It's  in  taxis  for  tourists.&quot;  &quot;What's  left  to  sell?&quot;  he  asked.  She  got  outher  jewel  box,  which  was  empty  except  for  the  one  piece  they  had  agreed  never  to  sell.  This  was  a  single  large  and  lustrous  pearl  in  a  gold  setting.  It  was  saidto  have  been  given  by  the  last  of  the  Mogul  em-  perors  to  Farida's  great-great-great-  grandfather,  who  had  been  anoble  at  his  court,  and  it  had  always  been  cov-  eted  by  Sunil,  whose  own  great-great-  great-grandfather  had  been  a  money-  lender's  clerk  at  the  same  court.  Farida  had  worn  the  pearl  on  her  forehead  at  her  wedding,  but  that  time  only  the  bridegroom,  Farid,  had  seen  it,  for  only  he  was  allowed  to  look  under  her  veil.  It  was  years  later,  in  [REDACTED],  when  Sunil  caught  his  first  sightof  it.  This  was  at  a  reception  he was  giving  for  an  American  buyer  of  table  linen,  to  which  Farida  had  come  all  dressed  up.  She  was  trying  to  start  a  business  in  batik  table  mats  with  matching  napkins,  and  so  was  out  to  make  an  impression.  Sunil  had  eyed  the  ornament,  which  was  on  a  chain  around  her  neck.  When  he  tried  to  touch  it,  she  puther  hand  over  it  and  said,  &quot;Not  for  sale.&quot;  &quot;Let  me  knowwhen  it  is,&quot;  he  said  in  his  phlegmatic  voice,  which  he  made  even  more  phlegmatic  when  he  was  eager  to  acquire  something  at  a  bargain  price.  Farid  never  knew  at  what  price  Sunil  finally  did  acquire  this  ornament  -the  money  soon  vanished  anyway  in  the  tourist  taxi  business.  He  often  wondered  what  Sunil  had  done  with  it.  Had  he  sold  it'  Kept  it'  Hung  it  around  the  neck  of  a  girl?  Sometimes  he  asked  him,  but  Sunil  never  let  on.  Actually,  Farid  was  almost  sure  that  Sunil  had  locked  it  away  in  the  deepest  and  most  secret  of  all  his  safe-deposit  vaults,  for  Sunil-one  had  to  admit  it  -recognized  a  thing  of  value  when  he  saw  it.  It  was  greed,  of  course,  but  Farid  knew  that  when  it  was  a  ques-  tion  of  making  money  Sunil's  greed could  be  as  subtle  and  unerring  as  anyone  else's  taste  and  wisdom.  AFTER  several  weeks  at  the  holy  place,  during  which  he  faced  her  every  day,  Farid  had  still  not  arrived  at  the  expected  showdown  with  Farida.  He  was  even  beginning  to  for-  get  about  it  and  to  enjoy  his  visits  to  her  for  their  own  sake.  They  became  the  high  point  of  his  day.  At  first  he  had  stood  in  line  with  all  the  other  pilgrims  waiting  for  their  turn,  but  then  he  noticed  that  there  was  a  time,  just  after  the  midday  meal,  when  no  one  else  was  there  and  even  the  hand-  maidens  had  lain  themselves  to  sleep.  Although  Farid  enjoyed  a  siesta  as  much  as  anyone,  oneday  he  spruced  himself  up  a  bit,  making  the  most  of  the  strands  of  hair  that  lay  across  the  top  of  his  head  and  smoothing  his  bush  shirt  over  his  stomach.  He  looked  down  at  the  stomach  and  decided  he  had  seen  worse  on  men  his  age.  Then  he  hurried-yes,  hurried-across  the  empty  compound  that  separated  his  quarters  from  her  tree.  The  sun  beat  down  on  him  from  a  fierce  white  sky,  the  paving  stones  burned  underfoot,  and  ahot  glare  as  tangible  as  glass  permeated  the  air,  but  Farid  hardly  noticed.  Once  he  reached  his  destina-  tion,  the  air  felt  absolutely  different.  The  shade  spread  by  the  tree  was  as  wide  and  cool  as  the  interior  of  a  shuttered  house.  The  handmaidens  lay  asleep  off  to  one  side  of  the  thick  tree  trunk,  on  the  other  Farida  sat  reading  " b"some  ancient  text.  She  was  wearing  big  spectacles  to  read  with  but  took  them  off  quickly  when  he  arrived.  They  had  begun  to  have  little  conver-  sations  now.  &quot;Look  at  you,  how  hot  you  are,&quot;  she  said  now,  watching  him  wipe  the  perspiration  from  his  face  and  neck.  &quot;Naturally,  a  person  gets  hot,&quot;  he  answered  irritably.  &quot;Not  everyone  has  the  opportunity  to  sit  under  a  tree  all  day.&quot;  &quot;At  least  you  should  wear  a  hat.&quot;  &quot;You  know  I  never  wear  a  hat,&quot;  he  said  still  impatiently,  though  he  didn't  feel  that  way  at  all.  It  was  cool  and  peaceful  under  her  roof  of  foliage.  The  next  day,  he  set  out  tofind  a  hat  in  the  little  bazaar  at  the  foot  of  the  mountain.  He  was  a  well-known  figure  there  by  now  -he  always  made  friends  quickly-and  his  quest  for  a  solar  hat  made  the  shopkeepers  smile.  They  said  that  only  English-style  sa-  hibs  like  himself  needed  to  protect  their  brains  from  the  good  496e646961n  sun.  It  was  not  until  he  came  to  the  end  of  the  row  of  narrow  booths  that  he  discovered  what  he  was  looking  for  among  a  stock  of  cotton  undervests,  bottles  of  hair  oil,  and  oleographs  of  gods  and  saints.  As  he  put  on  the  hat  and  looked  at  himself  in  a  little  metal  mirror,  his  attention  was  caught  by     one  of  the  highly  colored  pictures-a  portrait  of  a  saint  that  featured  its  subject  against  a  traditional  back-  ground  ofshrines,  forests,  rivers,  and  mountain  caves.  Farid  would  not  have  noticed  this  one  except  that  it  bore  some  resemblance  to  Farida.  He  looked  closer  and  then  realized  that  the  woman  in  the  picture  actually  was  Farida.  He  stared  at  her,  and  it  seemed  to  him  that  out  of  her  painted  back-  ground  she  stared  back  at  him  in  the  same  way  she  did  every  day  under  the  tree.  Suddenly  he  remembered  that  it  was  past  the  hour  of  his  usual  visit  to  her.  He  paid  for  his  purchase  and  hurried  back  through  the  bazaar  and  up  the  path  toward  her  tree.  He  didn't  even  notice  the  stiff  climb,  which  usually  made  him  pant  and  stop  several  times.  But  when  he  came  within  sight  of  the  tree  he  slowed  down.  He  was  ap-  proaching  from  the  bazaar  instead  of  from  the  ashram,  and  so  it  happened  that  hecaught  sight  of  Farida  half  rising  from  her  place  to  peer  anxiously  toward  his  usual  path.  He  tiptoed  up  from  behind  her.  &quot;Were  you  expecting  someone,  Madam?&quot;  he  said  suddenly,  and  when  she  turned  around  he  swept  off  his  new  hat  and  made  a  deep  bow,  at  the  same  time  tilting  up  his  face  to  look  into  hers.  Although  she  tried  to  hideher  feelings  with  a  frown,  he  knew  he  had  caught  her  out,  and  that  was  as  satisfying  as  the  showdown  he  had  been  hoping  for.  R  the  next  few  weeks,  Farid  felt  peculiarly  lighthearted  and  happy.  With  his  solar  hat,  bush  shirt,  and  an  alpenstock  he  had  acquired,  he  looked  every  inch  a  Westernized  Oriental  Gentleman,  but  he  didn't  feel  that  way.  It  seemed  to  him  that  he  had  shaken  off  thatpart  of  his  life  and  was  now  as  much  at  home  with  his  sur-  roundings  as  Farida,  that  he  was  at  one  with  the  little  ashram,  and  with  the  other  pilgrims,  the  shrines,  the  trees,  the  mountain  paths,  the  water  springs.  He  climbed  up  and  down  the  hillside-a  bit  out  of  breath  because  of  his  smoking  and  because  of  not  being  very  slim  (as  he  politely  put  it  to  him-  self)  but  nevertheless  feeling  nimble  and  agile  and  certain  that  he  could  go  up  as  high  as  he  wanted.  He  never  did  climb  very  high  but  found  a  small  incline  a  little  way  up  the  mountain  that  flattened  out  almost  into  an  over-  look.  He  liked  to  stand  there  and  lean  on  his  alpenstock,  surveying  the  scene  and  feeling  himself  part  of  it.  His  visits  with  Farida  in  the  afternoon  became  longer  and  more  intimate.  He  sat  beside  her  on  the  deerskin,  and  they  " b"talked  like  two  people  who  have  always  been  close  to  each  other.  They  caught  upon  the  last  twenty  years-or,  rather,  he  caught  up  with  her;  there  was  nothing  he  needed  to  tell  her  about  his  years  in  [REDACTED].  She  told  him  how,  after  that  last  scene  with  him,  she  had  borrowed  the  fare  from  Sunil  and  gone  straight  back  to  her  parents'  house  in  496e646961.  &quot;The  moment  I  got  there,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;it  was  as  if  I'd  never  been  away,  never  got  married,  never  been  to  Lon-  don,  never  been  broke.  I  did  what  everyone  else  did,  all  the  sisters  and  cousins-went  to  the  club  in  the  eve-  ning,  played  tennis,  played  bridge,  sat  on  committees  to  help  the  poor.  Oh,  you  know  your  family's  old  house  next  door  that  was  sold?  They'd  pulled  it  down  and  built  a  block  of  flats  on  it.  It  was  sad.  Well,  everything  was  sad.  Papa  got  sick  and  thenhe  died,  and  just  six  weeks  later  Mama  died,  too.  Yes,  you  know  about  that.  We  had  to  start  dividing  everything-the  furniture  and  carpets  and  silver  and  Mama's  jewelry-and  there  were  such  quar-  rels,  you  can't  imagine.  How  can  such  things  happen  between  brothers  and  sisters!  One  day,  Roxy  and  I  got  into  this  really  awful  fight  about  Mama's  diamond  necklace.  You  remember  how  fat  my  sister  Roxy  always  was?  Well,  she's  ten  times  fatter  now-Auge-  with  a  huge  face  all  painted  with  lip-  stick  and  mascara.  And  when  we  were  tugging  at  the  necklace-she  at  one  end,  me  at  the  other,  and  both  of  us  screaming-I  looked  into  this  face  of  hers  and  suddenly  I  thought,  My  God,  that's  me,  I'm  looking  in  a  mirror.  And  at  the  same  moment  I  won  the  battle  and  had  the  necklace  in  my  hand,  only  now  I  couldn't  bear  even  to  hold  it.  I  flung  it  away  from  me  as  far  as  I  could,  and  then  I  rushed  out  of  the  room  and  out  of  the  house  and  got  into  Papa's  old  Fiat  and  drove  without  stopping-all  the  way  up  to  Kasauli,  you  know,  to  the  summer  house  there.  No  one  had  been  there  for  ages,  be-  cause  of  the  lawsuit  about  it  between  Papa  and  his  nephews.  Everything  in-  side  had  been  taken  away,  completely  stripped,  and  in  what  used  to  be  the  dining  room  there  was  a  dead  squirrel,  with  water  dripping  on  it  from  a  burst  pipe.  I  got  back  in  the  Fiat  and  drove  farther  up,  as  far  up  as  I  could  go,  till  I  got  to  the  first  snow.  It  was  com-  pletely  silent  there  and  completely  bare;  there  were  no  birds  and  nothing  growing,  nothing  at  all.  The  snow  sparkled  white  and  the  sky  sparkled  icy  blue.  The  air  was  so  sharp  that  it  was  like  be-  ing  inside  a  crystal.  I  found  a  cave  in  the  side  of  the  mountain,  and  it  had  icicles  fes-  tooned  around  its  en-  trance,  as  if  someone  had  hung  up  decora-  tions  to  welcome  me.  So  I  went  in.&quot;  That  was  asfar  as  Farida  got  in  tell-  ingher  story  to  Farid.  There  was  a  silence,  and  when  he  asked,  &quot;And  then?&quot;  she  said,  &quot;And  then  I  came  here.&quot;  He  never  could  find  the  connecting  link  between  the  entrance  to  the  cave  and  this  tree  where  she  sat  as  a  saint,  with  people  lining  up  to  see  her.  Whenever  he  pressed  her  for  more  information,  she  blushed  and  glanced  down  and  smiled;  she  looked  exactly  the  way  she  had  when  they  were  passing  from  child-  hood  into  adolescence  and  were  awak-  ening  into  new  secrets  that  made  him  tremble  with  boldness  and  her  with  shyness  and  shame.  NE  day,  Sunil  turned  up  on  the  mountain.  He  came  in  an  air-  conditioned  limousine  driven  by  a  chauffeur.  Sunil  was  wearing  a  suit  of  the  lightesttropical  weight,  but  this  did  not  prevent  him  from  sweating  most  disagreeably.  Farid  felt  at  a  tre-  mendous  advantage  over  him-a  feel-  ing  that  grew  as  the  days  passed  and  Sunil  stayed  on.  For  one  thing,  Sunil  never  had  a  private  audience  with  Farida  but  had  toline  up  with  the  other  pilgrims.  Also,  the  living  condi-  tions  were  not  at  all  what  he  was  used  to;  instead  of  occupying  a  suite  in  some  five-star  hotel,  he  was  forced  to  sleep  on  a  stringcot  placed  beside  Farid's  in  the  whitewashed  cell.  He  could  not  get  used  to  the  plain  meals  prepared  in  the  ashram  kitchens,  and  when  Farid  took  him  to  one  of  the  eating  stalls  in  the  bazaar  he  got  sick  from  the  kebabs  served  there.  At  night  he  sweated  and  groaned  and  suffered  tortures  from  the  mosquitoes  whining  around  him,  though  they  never  seemed  to  bother  Farid.  His  air-conditioned  limousine  stood  waiting  to  take  him  back  down,  and  the  chauffeur  grumbled  and  had  to  be  bribed  to  stay,  but  Sunil  did  not     leave.  It  was  almost  the  way  it  used  to  be  when  they  were  children  and  Sunil  came  to  Farida's  birthday  parties  and  stuck  on  stubbornly  even  though  the  other  children  pricked  his  balloons  and  hid  his  shoes  and  ate  up  his  chocolate  cake.  Of  course,  it  was  all  for  a  purpose,  a  plan,  and  one  night  when  he  couldn't  sleep  because  of  the  mosquitoes  he  woke  up  Farid  and  broached  it  to  him.  &quot;She's  wasted  up  here,&quot;  he  said.  Farid  sat  up.  &quot;What's  on  your  mind?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It's  ridiculous,&quot;  Sunil  grumbled.  &quot;Instead  of  sitting  under  that  tree  of  hers,  she  could  be  making  a  fortune  in  [REDACTED].  Not  to  speak  of  New  York.&quot;  &quot;You  must  be  crazy,&quot;  Farid  saidin  a  shaky  voice.  &quot;You're  crazy,&quot;  Sunil  said.  &quot;You  and  she  both.  But  it's  always  the  same  story  with  you  two.  You  have  abso-  lutely  no  business  sense.&quot;  &quot;Business!&quot;  Farid  shouted.  &quot;What's  she  got  to  do  with  business!  She's  be-  yond  all  that  now.&quot;  &quot;All  right,  call  it  something  else,  then.  Call  it  whatever  you  like.  But  I'm  telling  you,  she'll  go  over  big.  They've  never  seen  anything  like  her  before.  There's  money  in  what  she  does-money,&quot;  he  repeated,  irritably  rubbing  his  thumb  and  middle  finger  together  to  make  his  meaning  clear.  Sunil  settled  in.  Each  day,  his  car  could  be  seen  driving  up  and  down  the  mountain  roads,  with  Sunil  sitting  in  the  back,  phlegmatic  but  confident,  picking  his  teeth.  He  was  setting  up  everything  for  Farida's  first  public  ap-  pearances  in  [REDACTED];  it  meant  getting  a  whole  organization  going,  but  of  " b"      course  that  was  the  sort  of  thing  he  excelled  at.  He  had  made  an  arrange-  ment  with  the  post  office  in  the  bazaar  to  get  his  international  calls  through  several  times  a  day,  and  soon  a  con-  tingent  of  publicity  people  arrived  -very  incongruous  Englishmen  in  Daks  slacks  and  Hush  Puppies  shoes  who  moved  in  on  the  group  under  the  tree.  They  shot  photographs,  made  sketches,  took  the  measurements  of  Farida  and  the  handmaidens,  and  called  everyone  &quot;darling&quot;  and  &quot;an-  gel&quot;  in  cold,  indifferent  voices.  They  did  their  job  and  went  away.  But  Sunil  stayedon.  Farid  sneered  at  all  this,  but  he  was  frightened.  He  knew  that  Sunil  was  stupid,  but  he  also  knew  that  the  man  was  capable  of  pushing  and  lumbering     ahead  like  an  army  tank  unencum-  bered  by  human  intelligence.  The  worst  of  it  was  that  he  seemed  to  have  sold  his  idea  to  Farida  herself.  She  was  fully  persuaded  that  it  was  time  for  a  wider,  more  international  audience  to  be  given  the  benefit  of  her  spirituality,  and  that  Sunil  was  the  man  to  arrange  it.  One  day  when  Farid  arrived  for  his  own  session  with  her,  he  found  Sunil  there  before  him,  sitting  on  the  edge  of  her  deerskin  as  though  he  had  every  right  to  be  there.  From  then  on,  he  was  there  every  afternoon,  and  Farid's  blissful  t\xc3\xa9te-a-t\xc3\xa9tes  with  Farida  were  finished.  Now  the  handmaidens  no  longer  slept  quietly  on  the  other  side  of  the  tree  but  tripped  up  and  down,  primping  and  preening,  studiedly  graceful.  Farida  was  different,  too.     e&quot;  o\\('&gt;\\//  s  5:6/  &quot;  7  C)?  55  **  NOS  \xc2\xa3.  @t.&quot;  She  didn't  lose  the  serenity  that  was  now  an  integral  part  of  her  personal-  ity,  like  a  shawl  worn  by  a  mature  and  beautiful  woman,  but  she  had  that  small  half  smile  of  satisfaction  she  had  always  worn  when  things  were  going  well  for  her.  It  made  Farid  want  to  slap  her.  Doesn't  she  see,  he  thought.  Doesn't  she  know?  His  anger  turned  on  Sunil,  who  took  no  notice  of  it  at  all.  Farid  stopped  going  to  the  tree  in  the  afternoons,  and  instead  began  to  napon  the  cot  in  his  cell.  No  one  seemed  to  miss  him;  no  message  came  from  Farida  to  ask  where  he  was.  He  slept  as  much  as  he  could.  It  was  the  same  thing  that  had  happened  to  him  in  [REDACTED],  when  he  didn't  want  to  get  up  anymore,  and  day  turned  into  night     " b"for  him,  except  that  now  he  was  dulled  only  by  despair.  He  didn't  drink  here;  he  didn't  need  to.  Now  he  took  walks  bymoonlight,  as  he  used  to  walk  in  the  daytime.  He  climbed  up  to  the  same  incline  as  before,  from  where  he  could  look  down  on  Farida's  tree  and  the  bazaar  on  one  side  and  a  steep  slope  descending  into  a  ravine  on  another.  He  wished  it  would  never  be  day  again.  One  night,  he  went  to  Farida's  tree,  descending  very  carefully,  sothat  no  stone  might  clatter  down  and  make  a  noise.  Everyone  was  sleeping-Farida  on  one  side  ofthe  tree,  on  her  deer-  skin,  the  handmaidens  on  the  other,  on  moss.  The  tree  shaded  them  from  the  moon  except  for  some  silver  streaks  that  spilled  through  the  foliage  and  covered  them  as  if  with  a  veil  of  finely  patterned  lace.  Farid  stood  looking  down  at  Farida.  It  seemed  a  pityto  wake  her,  and  when  he  did  she  wasn't  at  all  pleased.  &quot;Is  this  a  time  to  come  visiting?&quot;  she  said  irritably.  &quot;'Then  when  should  I  co556e6974656420537461746573;  Farid  said.  &quot;With  that  slob  sitting  here  all  afternoon.&quot;  She  continued  to  lie  there  under  her  veil  of  moonlight.  Her  eyes  were  open  and  looking  at  him.  It  wasn't  so  dif-  ferent  from  when  she  used  to  wake  up  at  night  in  the  other  half  of  their  double  bed  in  [REDACTED]  and  regard  him  silently  and  speculatively  in  the  dark.  &quot;Move  over,&quot;  he  said  suddenly  now.  Didn't  he  have  the  right?  Wasn't  he  still  her  husband?  She  didn't  argue  but  maderoom  for  him,  so  that  he  could  nestle  beside  her.  She  no  longer  used  the  scent,  Jolie  Madame,  she  had  in  [REDACTED]  but  smelled  of  something  else.  Maybe  it  wasn't  a  scent  at  all  but  only  a  fragrance  rising  from  within  her.  It  was  somehow  strengthened  and  given  body  by  the  racy  smell  of  the  deerskin.  &quot;Let's  go  away,&quot;  he  whispered  to  her.  &quot;We  are  going  away,&quot;  shepointed  out.  &quot;We're  going  to  [REDACTED].  I'm  booked  in  the  Albert  Hall  in  Octo-  ber.&quot;  &quot;Not  like  that.  Not  with  all  these  people.  Just  you  and  me.&quot;  Chastely  he  kissed  her  cool  neck.  &quot;Where  were  you  thinking  of  go-  ing?&quot;  she  murmured.  &quot;Away.  Up  there,&quot;  he  said,  ges-  turing  toward  a  mountain  peak  glim-  mering  with  moon  and  snow.  &quot;'There's  nothing  up  there.&quot;  'Yes  there  is.  You  said  so.  You've  been  there.  You  said  there's  acave.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  my  goodness,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;'That  old  story.  You'd  better  go  to  bed  and  get  some  sleep.  You're  dream-  ing  with  your  eyes  open.&quot;  His  reply  was  to  move  closer  to  her;  he  put  his  arm  across  her.  After  a  long  silence,  during  which  both  of  them  lay  quite  still,  she  said,  &quot;I  don't  want  to  go  up.  I  want  to  go  down-go  back.  This  time,  it'll  work  out.  You'll  see.&quot;  How  often  he  had  heard  that  from  her-each  time  she  had  started  some  new  scheme.  She  seemed  to  remember  this  herself,  for  she  went  on.  &quot;Sunil  will  help  us,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;He'll  look  after  all  that-you  know,  the  business  side  youand  I  could  never  manage.&quot;  Sunil!&quot;  he  said  scornfully.  &quot;All  he  knows  is  buying  and  selling.&quot;  &quot;No  onecan  live  without  buying  and  selling,&quot;  she  said.  He  was  shocked.  He  sat  up  and  stared  at  her  in  the  moonlight.  She  looked  back  at  him  defiantly;  and  again  he  was  reminded  of  how  it  had  been  between  them  all  the  years  in  [REDACTED].  Was  she  still  the  same?  Hadn't  she  changed  after  all?  She  knew  at  once  what  he  was  thinking,  of  course.  &quot;It's  you  who  haven't  changed!&quot;  she  cried.  &quot;You  still  think  you  can  lie  around  with  your  mouth  open,  waiting  for  sweets  to  drop  in.  Well,  that's  not  my  style  at  all,  and  this  time  you're  not  going  to  drag  medown  with  you.&quot;  &quot;But  I  told  you,  I  don't  want  to  go  down,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  want  to  go  up-up  to  where  that  cave  is.&quot;  She  snorted  loudly-a  sound  of  im-  " b"patient  anger  that  he  knew  very  well.  &quot;And  go  away  now,&quot;  she  said,  and  when  he  didn't  move  she  gave  him  a  little  push.  &quot;Go  on,  before  anyone  sees  us.&quot;  &quot;So  what?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;We're  married,  aren't  we?&quot;  A  SHIPMENT  of  box-  es  arrived  from  [REDACTED]-the  men  in  Daks  slacks  had  ar-  ranged  it  all.  The  boxes  contained  new  uniforms  for  the  handmaidens  and  a  white  robe  of  Italian  silk  for  Farida,  along  with  a  string  of  prayer  beads  set  by  a  famous  Italian  designer,  and  a  new  deerskin,  which  must  have  been  synthetic,  for  it  had  no  smell  at  all.  Everyone  had  gathered  around  for  the  unpacking-every-  one,  that  is,  except  Fa-  rid,  who  kept  himself  completely  aloof  from  the  excitement.  By  the  time  he  next  came  to  vis-  it  the  tree,  the  hand-  maidens  had  changed  into  their  new  permanent-press  robes  and  were  glid-  ing  up  and  down  in  them  like  ethereal  airline  stewardesses.  Farida  appeared  tremendously  pleased  with  herself  in  her  new  white  robe  and  Italian  beads.  She  looked  at  Farid  as  if  she  expected  a  compliment,  which  he  refused  to  pay.  Sunil  was  there,  surveying  the  scene  with  the  satisfaction  of  an  im-  presario.  He  stared  at  Farid,  and  Fa-  rida  said  at  once,  &quot;Yes,  he'll  need  a  new  outfit,  too.&quot;  Farid  shrugged  contemptuously  and  went  away.  But  when  night  came  and  everyone  was  asleep  he  got  up  and  went  to  her  again.  She  was  awake  and  seemed  to  be  expecting  him.  When  he  lay  down  next  to  her,  she  ran  her  finger  over  his  frayed  collar  and  said,  &quot;We'll  get  you  a  new  shirt  and  new  shoes  and  ties  and  everything.  We'll  start  again.&quot;  She  stroked  what  was  left  of  his  hair.  &quot;It'll  all  be  differ-  ent  this  time,&quot;  she  said.  But  when  he  groaned  and  said,  &quot;Oh,  no,&quot;  she  pulled  back  from  him.  &quot;That's  all  I've  ever  heard  from  you!&quot;  she  shouted.  &quot;Whatever  I  wanted  to  do,  your  only  contribution  was  'Oh,  no.'  I'm  sick  of  it!  I'm  tired  of  it  andI'm  tired  of  you.&quot;  Though  she  spoke  in  anger,  Farid  saw  the  tears  trickling  from  her  eyes.  &quot;Who  did  I  ever  do  anything  for  but  you?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;All  those  busi-  nesses  I  started-who  was  that  all  for?  And  even  now,  who  is  it  all  for?&quot;  Her  voice  broke.  Her  tears  fell  in  perfect  drops  like  pearls.  &quot;Never  mind,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Don't  say  any  more.&quot;  He  lay  beside  her  and  held  her  hand,  and  remembered  the  time  when  he  had  had  to  rescue  her  and  flushed  her  cooking  oil  away.  HE  next  day,  he  invited  Sunil  to  go  for  a  walk  with  him.  Sunil,  who  was  in  no  condition  to  walk  up-  hill,  didn't  want  to  go,  but  Farid  used  his  old  tactics-taunting  him  about  his  ungainly  figure,  his  breathlessness,  his  age-until  Sunil  gave  in.  Farid  walked  ahead,  jaunty  with  his  hat  and  stick,  sometimes  stopping  on  the  steep  path  to  look  back  at  his  friend  panting  behind  him.  When  he  reached  his  des-  tination,  which  was  his  usual  over-look,  he  sat  comfortably  on  a  stone  and  watched  Sunil  slowly  coming  up  and,  beyond  him,  the  mountainside  that  spi-  ralled  away  below.  Sunil  arrived  flushed  and  angry.  &quot;You  want  to  kill  me,  making  me  climb  up  here?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Calm  down,&quot;  Farid  said.  &quot;'Take  it  easy.  I  only  want  to  tell  you  some-  thing.  Farida  and  I  are  leaving.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  my  God,  is  that  all?&quot;  Sunil  said,  standing  above  him.  &quot;I  know  you're  leaving.  So  am  I.  Everyone  is.  Is  that  all  you  have  to  tell  [REDACTED];  \xc2\xab&quot;We're  not  going  with  you,&quot;  Farid  said  calmly.  &quot;We're  going  up,  not  down.  I  just  wanted  you  to  know  there's  been  a  change  of  plan.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  sure,  sure.  A  change  of  plan.  I  make  the  arrangements,  spend  a  few  hundred  thousand,  and  he  changes  the  plan.&quot;  Farid  remained  serene.  He  pointed  toward  the  mountaintop  far  above  them,  where  its  peak  disappeared  into  mist.  &quot;That's  where  we're  going,  Farida  and  I,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Listen,  Farid,&quot;  Sunil  said.  He  took  a  deep  breath  to  keep  hispatience.  &quot;I  " b"don't  know  what's  on  your  mind,  but  please  tryto  get  this  straight.  We're  go-  ing  to  [REDACTED].  Everything's  booked.  Everything's  arranged.  There's  a  whole  public  waiting  for  us  out  there.  There's  money  to  be  made,  and  we're  going  to  make  it.&quot;  Farid,  still  seated  on  his  stone,  looked  up  at  his  friend.  It  was  so  easy.  One  push  in  the  right  direction  and  Sunil  would  go  rolling  off  the  path  and  down  the  steep  ravine.  He  would  not  be  heard  from  again.  Farid  stood  up.  He  gave  Sunil  a  sharp  little  push  in  the  chest-he  could  have  laughed  at  the  expression  on  Sunil's  face  as  he  lost  his  balance  and  began  to  tumble  backward.  The  next  moment,  he  didn't  feel  like  laughing  at  all  but  went  run-  ning  after  him  down  the  path.  Sunil  didn't  roll  far.  His  bush  shirt  caught  in  the  lower  branches  of  a  little  pine  tree,  which  stooda  foot  or  two  above  a  mountain  ledge,  and  Sunil  stuck  there,  while  a  few  stones  he  had  dislodged  went  bouncing  down  the  path  and  sailed  off  into  empty  air.  Farid  jumped  after  him.  He  pulled  and  tugged  at  him,  while  Sunil  awkwardly  tried  to  heave  himself  back  onto  the  path.  It  was  not  easy  for  either  of  them,  for  they  were  both  overweight,  out  of  breath,  and  terribly  upset.  When  at  last  they  managed  it,  Sunil  slowly  arose  and  stood  there  with  his  eyes  shut  in  fright,  whileFarid  felt  him  all  over,  pressing  his  limbs  tosee  if  any-  thing  was  broken,  and  trembling  as  much  as  Sunil  himself.  Without  open-  ing  his  eyes,  Sunil  said  at  last,  &quot;Let  me  go.  Take  me  down.&quot;  Farid  carefully  led  him  down,  his  Al  by  %  &amp;,  arm  around  Sunil's  stout  waist,  and  stopped  solicitously  every  few  stepsto  see  if  he  was  all  right.  Then  he  took  his  hat  off  and  put  it  on  Sunil,  to  guard  him  from  the  sun.  ETER  that  day  they  presented  themselves  before  Farida.  &quot;We're  all  leaving  tomorrow,&quot;  Sunil  said.  &quot;Certainly,&quot;  Farid  said.  &quot;He  can  go  down  and  we'll  go  up.&quot;  There  was  a  pause.  When  Farida  spoke,  it  was  to  Farid.  &quot;'There's  noth-  ing  up  there,&quot;  she  said  coldly.  &quot;Can't  you  getthat  into  your  head?  Abso-  lutely  nothing.&quot;  She  looked  at  him  with  a  face  of  stone.  What  could  he  say  to  convince  her?  What  could  he  do?  He  knelt  beside  her  on  the  new  deerskin;  seen  through  his  tears,  she  swam  in  a  halo  of  light.  He  called  her  name  out  loud-&quot;Farida!  Farida&quot;&quot;&quot;-as  if  she  were  far  away,  instead  of  right  next  to  him.  He  seized  her  hands  and  began  to  talk  and  cry  desperately.  He  told  her  how  he  had  tried  to  kill  Sunil,  sothatthe  two  of  them,  Farid  and  Farida,  could  go  away  together  and  everything  could  be  again  as  it  was.  Yes,  for  that  he  had  been  prepared  to  murder  their  child-  hood  friend.  He  said  this  twice,  to  impress  it  on  her,  butshe  only  ex-  tracted  her  cool  hands  from  between  his  and  said,  &quot;You're  neurotic.&quot;  &quot;Neurotic!&quot;  Sunil  exclaimed.  &quot;He's  completely  psychotic.  We  have  to  get  him  to  [REDACTED]  for  treatment.&quot;  The  next  day,  two  other  air-condi-  tioned  limousines  arrived,  and  Sunil  and  Farida  and  the  handmaidens  and  their  luggage  prepared  for  a  stately departure.  Pilgrims  gathered  while  the  cars  were  being  loaded;  they  joined  their  hands  in  respectful  salutation  and  shouted  &quot;Jai  Matai&quot;  Some  of  them  waved  little  orange  flags  with  Farida's  picture  imprinted  inblack.  Sunil  and  Farida  were  sitting  in  the  back  of  the  third  car,  waiting  for  Farid  to  join  the  chauffeur  on  the  front  seat.  But  Farid  could  not  be  found.  Sunil  tapped  his  foot  and  said,  &quot;We'll  miss  our  plane.&quot;  &quot;Give  him  a  few  more  minutes,&quot;  Farida  said.  Under  her  breath  she  muttered,  &quot;Isn'tthat  just  like  him!&quot;  A  signal  was  given,  and  the  two  cars  in  front  moved  off.  &quot;We  can't  just  leave  him  behind!&quot;  Farida  cried,  as  the  pro-  cession  began  to  wind  downhill.  &quot;Please  smile,  Farida,&quot;  Sunil  said.  &quot;Please  wave.&quot;  She  waved  at  the  pil-  grims  by  the  roadside  as  the  car  slowly  descended,  but  kept  turning  in  her  seat  and  craning  to  peer  behind  her.  For  the  first  time  in  many  years  she  looked  discontented,disappointed.  Farid  was  standing  above  them  at  his  overlook,  at  the  terminal  point  of  his  daily  walk.  He  looked  down  at  the  cars  leaving.  They  seemed  to  go  very  slowly  and  reluctantly,  and  he  knew  it  would  be  easy,  if  he  wanted  to,  to  run  after  them  and  catch  them  up.  He  felt  a  sensation  in  his  heart  as  if  someone  -some  other  heart  attached  to  his-  were  tugging  him  down.  But  he  planted  himself  a  bit  more  sturdily,  with  his  legs  apart,  and  stood  his  ground.  The  cars  grew  smaller,  creep-  ing  down  the  mountain  into  the  ba-  zaar,  into  the  town,  into  the  plains  below.  When  they  were  completely  out  of  sight,  he  descended  the  path  and  returned  to  her  tree.  The  place  was  deserted  now,  and  there  was  nothing  to  be  seen  except  her  old  deerskin,  which  someone  had  rolled  up  and  stuffed  under  a  root.  Farid  spread  it  out  again  and  smoothed  it  and  sat  on  it.  He  thought  he  would  just  wait  here  until  she  came  back  for  him.  Of  course,  this  might  take  a  long  time-  many  years,  even-but  when  she  came  at  last  he  would  say,  &quot;Let's  go  up,  Farida,&quot;  and  after  the  inevitable  argu-  ment  she  would  agree. "