 b"MY  name  is  Annie  John.&quot;  These  were  the  first  words  that  came  into  my  mind  as  I  woke  up  on  the  morning  of  the  last  day  I  spent  in  Antigua,  and  they  stayed  there,  lined  up  one  behind  the  other,  marching  up  and  down,  for  I  don't  know  how  long.  At  noon  on  that  day,  a  ship  on  which  I  was  to  be  a  passenger  would  sail  to  Barbados,  and  there  I  would  board  another  ship,  whichwould  sail  to  [REDACTED],  where  I  would  study  to  become  a  nurse.  My  name  was  the  last  thing  I  saw  the  night  before,  just  as  I  was  falling  asleep;  it  was  written  in  big,  black  letters  all  over  my  trunk,  sometimes  followed  by  my  address  in  Antigua,  sometimes  followed  by  my  address  as  it  would  be  in  [REDACTED].  I  did  not  want  to  go  to  [REDACTED],  I  did  not  want  to  be  a  nurse,  but  I  would  have  cho-  sen  going  off  to  live  in  a  cavern  and  keeping  house  for  seven  unruly  men  rather  than  go  on  with  my  life  as  it  stood.  I  never  wanted  to  lie  in  this  bed  again,  my  legs  hanging  out  way  past  the  foot  of  it,  tossing  and  turn-  ing  on  my  mattress,  with  its  cotton  stuffing  all  lumped  just  where  it  wasn't  a  good  place  to  be  lumped.  I  never  wanted  to  lie  in  my  bed  again  and  hear  Mr.  Ephraim  driving  his  sheep  to  pasture-a  signal  to  my  mother  that  she  should  get  up  to  pre-  pare  my  father's  and  my  bath  and  breakfast.  I  never  wanted  to  lie  in  my  bed  and  hear  her  get  dressed,  wash-  ing  her  face,  brushing  her  teeth,  and  gargling.  I  especially  never  wanted  to  lie  in  my  bed  and  hear  my  mother  gargling  agaln.  Lying  there  in  the  half-dark  of  my  room,  I  could  see  my  shelf,  with  my  books-some  of  them  prizes  I  had  won  in  school,  some  of  them  gifts  from  my  mother-  and  with  photographs  of  people  I  was  supposed  to  love  forever  no  mat-  ter  what,  and  with  my  old  thermos,  which  was  given  to  me  for  my  eighth  birthday,  and  some  shells  I  had  gathered  at  different  times  I  spent  at  the  sea.  In  one  corner  stood  my  washstand  and  its  beautiful  basin  of  white  enamel  with   blooming  red  hibiscus  painted  at  the  bottom  and  anurn  that  matched.  In  another  corner  were  my  old  school  shoes  and  my  Sunday  shoes.  In  still  another  corner,  a  bureau  held  my  old  clothes.  I  knew  everything  in  this  room,  inside  out  and  outside  in.  I  had  lived  in  this  room  for  thirteen  of  my  seventeen  years.  I  could  see  in  my  mind's  eye  even  the  day  my  father  was  adding  it  onto  the  rest  of  the  house.  Everywhere  I  looked  stood  something  that  had  meant  a  lot  to  me,  that  had  given  me  pleasure  at  some  point,  or  could  remind  me  of  a  time  that  was  a  happy  time.  But  as  I  was  lying  there  my  heart  could  have  burst  open  with  joy  at  the  thought  of  never  having  to  see  any  of  it  again.  If  someone  had  asked  me  for  a  little  summing  up  of  my  life  at  that  moment  as  I  layinbed,  I  would  have  said,  &quot;My  name  is  Annie  John.  I  was  born  on  the  fifteenth  of  September,  seven-  teen  years  ago,  at  Holberton  Hospital,  at  five  o'clock  in  the  morning.  At  the  time  I  was  born,  the  moon  was  going  down  at  one  end  of  the  sky  and  the  sun  was  coming  up  at  the  other.  My  mother's  name  is  Annie  also;  I  am  named  after  her,  and  that  is  why  my  parents  call  me  Little  [REDACTED]  My  fa-  ther's  name  is  Alexander,  and  he  is  thirty-five  years  older  than  my  mother.  T  wo  of  his  children  are  four  and  six  years  older  than  she  is.  Looking  at  how  sickly  he  has  become  and  looking  at  the  way  my  mother  now  has  to  run  up  and  down  for  him,  gathering  the  herbs  and  barks  that  he  boils  in  water,   which  he  drinks  instead  of  the  medi-  cine  the  doctor  has  ordered  for  him,  I  plan  not  only  never  to  marry  an  old  man  but  certainly  never  to  marry  at  all.  The  house  we  live  in  my  father  built  with  his  own  hands.  The  bed  I  am  lying  in  my  father  built  with  his  own  hands.  If  I  get  up  and  sit  on  a  chair,  it  is  a  chair  my  father  built  with  his  own  hands.  When  my  mother  uses  a  large  wooden  spoon  to  stir  the  por-  ridge  we  sometimes  eat  as  part  of  our  breakfast,  it  will  bea  spoon  that  my  father  hascarved  with  his  own  hands.  The  sheets  on  my  bed  my  mother  made  with  her  own  hands.  The  cur-  tains  hanging  at  my  window  my  moth-  er  made  with  her  own  hands.  The  nightie  I  am  wearing,  with  scalloped  neck  and  hem  and  sleeves,  my  mother  made  with  her  own  hands.  When  I  look  at  things  in  a  certain  way,  I  suppose  I  should  say  that  the  two  of  them  made  me  with  their  own  hands.  For  most  of  my  life,  when  the  three  of  us  went  anywhere  together  I  stood  between  the  two  of  them  or  sat  be-  tween  the  two  of  them.  But  then  I  got  too  big,  and  there  I  was,  shoulder  to  shoulder  with  them  more  or  less,  and  it  became  not  very  comfortable  to  walk  down  the  street  together.  And  so  now  there  they  are  together  and  here  I  am  apart.  I  don't  see  them  now  the  way  I  used  to,  and  I  don't  love  them  now  the  way  I  used  to.  The  bitter  thing  about  it  is  that  they  are  just  the  same  and  it  is  I  who  have  changed,  so  all  the  things  I  used  to  be  and  all  the  things  I  used  to  feel  are  as  false  as  the  teeth  in  my  father's  head.  Why,  I  wonder,  didn't  I  see  the  hypocrite  in     " b"my  mother  when,  over  the  years,  she  said  that  she  loved  me  and  could  hard-  ly  live  without  me,  while  at  the  same  time  proposing  and  arranging  separa-  tion  after  separation,  including  this  one,  which,  unbeknownst  to  her,  I  have  arranged  to  be  permanent?  So  now  I,  too,  have  hypocrisy,  and  breasts  (small  ones),  and  hair  growing  in  the  appropriate  places,  and  sharp  eyes,  and  I  have  made  a  vow  never  to  be  fooled  again.&quot;  Lying  in  my  bed  for  the  last  time,  I  thought,  This  is  what  I  add  up  to.  At  that,  I  felt  as  if  someone  had  placed  me  in  a  hole  and  was  forcing  me  first  down  and  then  up  against  the  pressure  of  gravity.  I  shook  myself  and  pre-  pared  to  get  up.  I  said  to  myself,  &quot;I  am  getting  up  out  of  this  bed  for  the  last  time.&quot;  Everything  I  would  do  that  morning  until  I  got  on  the  ship  that  would  take  me  to  [REDACTED]  I  would  be  doing  for  the  last  time,  for  I  had  made  up  my  mind  that,  come  what  might,  the  road  for  me  now  went  only  in  one  direction:  away  from  my  home,  away  from  my  mother,  away  from  my  fa-  ther,  away  from  the  everlasting  blue  sky,  away  from  the  everlasting  hot  sun,  away  from  people  who  said  to  me,  &quot;This  happened  during  the  time  your  mother  was  carrying  you.&quot;  If  I  had  been  asked  to  put  into  words  why  I  felt  this  way,  if  I  had  been  given  years  to  reflect  and  come  up  with  the  words  of  why  I  felt  this  way,  I  would  not  have  been  able  to  come  up  with  so  much  as  the  letter  &quot;A.&quot;&quot;  I  only  knew  that  I  felt  the  way  I  did,  and  that  this  feeling  was  the  strongest  thing  in  my  life.  THE  Anglican  church  bell  struck  seven.  My  father  had  already  bathed  and  dressed  and  was  in  his  workshop  puttering  around.  As  if  the  day  of  my  leaving  were  something  to  celebrate,  they  were  treating  it  as  a  holiday,  and  as  if  nothing  usual  would  take  place.  My  father  would  not  go  to  work  at  all.  When  I  got  up,  my  mother  greeted  me  with  a  big,  bright  &quot;Good  morning&quot;-so  big  and  bright  that  I  shrank  before  it.  I  bathed  quickly  in  some  warm  bark  water  that  my  mother  had  prepared  for  me.  I  put  on  my  underclothes-all  of  them  white  and  all  of  them  smelling  funny.  Along  with  my  earrings,  my  neck  chain,  and  my  bracelets,  all  made  of  gold  from  British  Guiana,  my  under-  clothes  had  been  sent  to  my  mother's  obeah  woman,  and  whatever  she  had  done  to  my  jewelry  and  underclothes  would  help  protect  me  from  evil  spirits  and  every  kind  of  misfortune.  The  things  I  never  wanted  tosee  or  hear  or  do  again  now  made  up  at  least  three  weeks'  worth  of  grocery  lists.  I  placed a  mark  against  obeah  women,  jewelry,  and  white  underclothes.  Over  my  un-  derclothes,  I  put  onan  around-the-  yard  dress  of  my  mother's.  The  clothes  I  would  wear  for  my  voyage  were  a  dark-blue  pleated  skirt  and  a  blue-and-  white  checked  blouse  (the  blue  in  the  blouse  matched  exactly  the  blue  of  my  skirt)  with  a  large  sailor  collar  and  with  a  tie  made  from  the  same  material  as  the  skirt-a  blouse  that  came  down  .  a  long  way  past  my  waist,  over  my  skirt.  They  were  lying  on  a  chair,  freshly  ironed  by  my  mother.  Putting  " b"on  my  clothes  was  the  last  thing  I  would  do  just  before  leaving  thehouse.  Miss  Cornelia  came  and  pressed  my  hair  and  then  shaped  it  into  what  felt  like  a  hundred  corkscrews,  all  lying  flat  against  my  head  so  that  my  hat  would  fit  properly.  At  breakfast,  I  was  seated  in  my  usual  spot,  with  my  mother  at  one  end  of  the  table,  my  father  at  the  other,  and  me  in  the  middle,  so  that  as  they  talked  to  me  or  to  each  other  I  would  shift  my  head  to  the  left  or  to  the  right  and  get  a  good  look  at  them.  We  were  having  a  Sunday  breakfast,  a  breakfast  as  if  we  had  just  come  back  from  Sunday-morning  services:  salt  fish  and  antroba  and  souse  and  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  even  special  Sunday  bread  from  Mr.  Daniel,  our  baker.  On  Sun-  days,  we  ate  this  big  breakfast  at  eleven  o'clock,  and  then  we  didn't  eat  again  until  four  o'clock,  when  we  had  our  big  Sunday  dinner.  It  was  the  best  breakfast  we  ate,  and  the  only  break-  fast  better  than  that  was  the  one  we  ate  on  Christmas  morning.  My  parents  were  in  a  festive  mood,  saying  what  a  wonderful  time  I  would  have  in  my  new  life,  what  a  wonderful  opportu-  nity  this  was  for  me,  and  what  a  lucky  person  I  was.  They  were  eating  away  as  they  talked,  my  father's  false  teeth  making  a  clop-clop  sound  like  a  horse  on  a  walk  as  he  talked,  my  mother's  mouth  going  up  and  down  like  a  horse  eating  hay  as  she  chewed  each  mouth-  ful  thirty-two  times.  (I  had  long  ago  counted,  because  it  was  something  she  made  me  do  also,  and  I  was  trying  to  see  if  this  was  just  one  of  her  rules  that  applied  only  to  me.)  I  was  looking  at  them  with  a  smile  on  my  face  but  disgust  in  my  heart  when  my  mother  said,  &quot;Of  course,  you  are  a  young  lady  now,  and  we  won't  be  surprised  if  in  due  time  you  write  to  say  that  one  day  soon  you  are  to  be  married.&quot;  Without  thinking,  I  said,  with  bad  feeling  that  I  didn't  hide  very  well,  &quot;How  absurd!&quot;  My  parents  immediately  stopped  eating  and  looked  at  me  as  if  they  had  not  seen  me  before.  My  father  was  the  first  to  go  back  tohis  food.  My  mother  continued  to  look.  I  don't  know  what  went  through  her  mind,  but  I  could  see  her  using  her  tongue  to  dislodge  food  stuck  in  the  far  corners  of  her  mouth.  Many  of  my  mother's  friends  now  came  by  to  say  goodbye  to  me,  and  to  wish  me  God's  blessings.  I  thanked  them  and  showed  the  proper  amount  of  joy  at  the  glorious  things  they  pointed  out  to  me  that  my  future  held  and  showed  the  proper  amount  of  sor-  row  at  how  much  my  parents  and  everyone  else  who  loved  me  would  " b"miss  me.  My  body  ached  a  little  at  all  this  false  going  back  and  forth,  at  all  this  taking  in  of  people  gazing  at  me  with  heads  tilted,  love  and  pity  on  their  smiling  faces.  I  could  have  left  without  saying  any  goodbyes  to  them  and  I  wouldn't  have  missed  it.  There  was  only  one  person  I  felt  I  should  say  goodbye  to,  and  that  was  my  former  friend  Gwen.  We  had  long  ago  drifted  apart,  and  when  I  saw  her  now  my  heart  nearly  split  in  two  with  embar-  rassment  at  the  feelings  I  used  to  have  for  her  and  things  I  had  shared  with  her.  She  had  now  degenerated  into  complete  silliness,  hardly  able  to  com-  plete  a  sentence  without  putting  in  a  few  giggles.  Along  with  the  giggles,  she  had  developed  some  other  school-  girl  traits  that  she  did  not  have  when  she  was  actually  a  schoolgirl,  so  be-  neath  her  were  such  things  then.  When  we  were  saying  our  goodbyes,  it  was  all  I  could  do  not  to  say  cruelly,  &quot;Why  are  you  behaving  like  such  a  monkey?&quot;  Instead,  I  put  everything  into  a  friendly,  plain  wishing  her  well  and  the  best  in  the  future.  It  was  then  that  she  told  me  that  she  was  more  or less  engaged  to  a  boy  she  had  known  while  growing  up  early  on  in  Nevis,  and  that  soon,  in  a  year  or  so,  they  would  be  married.  My  reply  to  her  was  &quot;Good  luck,&quot;  and  she  thought  I  meant  her  well,  so  she  grabbed  me  and  said,  &quot;Thank  you.  I  knew  you  would  be  happy  about  it.&quot;  But  to  me  it  was  as  if  she  had  shown  me  a  high  point  from  which  she  was  going  to  jump  and  hoped  to  land  in  one  piece  on  her  feet.  We  parted,  and  when  I  turned  away  I  didn't  look  back.  MY  mother  had  arranged  with  a  stevedore  to  take  my  trunk  to  the  jetty  ahead  of  me.  At  ten  o'clock  on  the  dot,  I  was  dressed,  and  we  set  off  for  the  jetty.  An  hour  after  that,  I  would  board  a  launch  that  would  take  me  out  to  sea,  where  I  then  would  board  the  ship.  Starting  out,  as  if  for  old  time's  sake  and  without  giving  it  a  thought,  we  lined  up  in  the  old  way:  I  walking  between  my  mother  and  my  father.  I  loomed  way  above  my  father  and  could  see  the  top  of  his  head..  I  wasn't  so  much  taller  than  my  mother  that  it  couldbring  me  any  satisfaction.  We  must  have  made  astrange  sight:  a  grown  girl  all  dressed  up  in  the  middle  of  a  morning,  in  the  middle  of  the  week,  walking  in  step  in  the  middle  between  her  two  parents,  for  people  we  didn't  know  stared  at  us.  It  was  all  of  half  an  hour's  walk  from  our  house  to  the  jetty,  but  I  was  passing  through  most  of  the  years  of  my  life.  We  passed  by  the  house  whereMiss  Lois,  the  seamstress  that  I  had  been  apprenticed  to  for  a  few  years,  lived,  and  just  as  I  was  passing  by  a  wave  of  bad  feeling  for  her  came  over  me,  because  I  sud-  denly  remembered  that  the  first  year  I  spent  with  her  all  she  had  me  do  was  sweep  the  floor,  which  was  always  full  of  threads  and  pins  and  needles,  and  I  never  seemed  to  sweep  it  clean  enough  to  please  her.  Then  she  would  send  me  to  the  store  to  buy  buttonsor  thread,  though  I  was  only  allowed  to  do  this  if  I  was  given  a  sample  of  the  button  or  thread,  and  then  she  would  find  fault  even  though  they  were  an  exact  match  of  the  samples  she  had  given  me.  And  all  the  while  she  said  to  me,  &quot;You'll  never  sew,  you  know.&quot;  At  the  time,  I  don't  suppose  I  minded  it,  because  it  was  customary  to  treat  the  first-year  apprentice  with  such  scorn,  but  now  I  placed  on  the  dustheap  of  my  life  Miss  Lois  and  everything  that  I  hadhad  to  do  with  her.  We  were  soon  on  the  road  that  I  had  taken  to  school,  to  church,  to  Sunday  school,  to  choir  practice,  to  Brownie  meetings,  to  Girl  Guide  meetings,  to  meet  a  friend.  I  was  five  years  old  when  I  first  walked  on  this  road  unaccompanied  by  someone  to  hold  my  hand.  My  mother  had  placed  three  pennies  in  my  little  basket,  which  was  a  duplicate  of  herbigger  basket,  and  sent  me  to  thechemist's  shop  to  buy  a  pennyworth  of  senna,a  penny  worth  of  eucalyptus  leaves,  and  a  pennyworth  of  camphor.  She  then  in-  structed  me  on  what  side  of  the  road  to  walk,  where  to  make  a  turn,  where  to  cross,  and  to  look  carefully  before  I  crossed,  and  if  I  met  anyone  that  I  knew  to  politely  pass  greetings  and  keep  on  my  way.  I  was  wearing  a  freshly  ironed  yellow  dress  that  had  printed  on  it  scenes  of  acrobats  flying  through  the  air  and  swinging  on  a  trapeze.  I  had  just  had  a  bath,  and  after  it,  instead  of  powdering  me  with  my  baby-smelling  talcum  powder,  my  mother  had,  as  a  special  favor,  let  me  use  her  own  talcum  powder,  which  smelled  quite  perfumy  and  came  in  a  can  that  had  painted  on  it  people  going  " b"out  to  dinner  in  nineteenth-century  [REDACTED]  and  was  called  Mazie.  How  it  pleased  me  to  walk  out  the  door  and  bend  my  head  down  to  sniff  at  myself  and  see  that  I  smelled  just  like  my  mother.  I  went  to  thechemist's  shop,  and  he  had  to  come  from  behind  the  counter  and  bend  down  to  hear  what  it  was  that  I  wanted  to  buy,  my  voice  was  so  little  and  timid  then.  I  went  back  just  the  way  I  had  come,  and  when  I  walked  into  the  yard  and  presented  my  basket  with  its  three  packages  to  my  mother  her  eyes  filled  with  tears  and  she  swooped  me  up  and  held  me  high  in  the  air  and  said  that  I  was  wonderful  andgood  and  that  there  would  never  be  anybody  better.  IfI  had  just  conquered  4972616e,  she  couldn't  have  been  more  proud  of  me.  We  passed  byour  church-the  church  in  which  I  had  been  christened  and  received  and  had  sung  in  theju-  nior  choir.  We  passed  by  a  house  in  which  a  girl  I  used  to  like  and  was  sure  I  couldn't  live  without  had  lived.  Once,  when  she  had  mumps,  I  went  to  visit  her  against  my  mother's  wishes,  and  we  sat  on  her  bed  and  ate  the  cure  ofroasted,  buttered  sweet  potatoes  that  had  been  placed  on  her  swollen  jaws,  held  there  by  a  piece  of  white  cloth.  I  don't  know  how,  but  my  mother  found  out  about  it,  and  I  don't  know  how,  but  sheput  an  end  to  our  friendship.  Shortly  after,  the  girl moved  with  her  family  across  the  sea  to  some-  where  else.  We  passed  the  doll  store  where  I  would  go  with  my  mother  when  I  was  lit-  tle  and  point  out  the  doll  I  wanted  that  year  for  Christmas.  We  passedthe  store  where  I  bought  the  much-  fought-over  shoes  I  wore  to  church  to  be  received  in.  We  passed  the  bank.  On  my  sixth  birthday,  I  was  given,  among  other  things,  the  present  of  a  six-  pence.  My  mother  and  I  then  went  tothis  bank,  and  with  the  six-  pence  I  opened  my  own  savings  account.  I    was  given  a  little  gray  book  with  my  name  in  big  letters  on  it,  and  in  the  balance  column  it  said  &quot;6d.&quot; Every Saturday  morning  after  that,  I  was  given  a  sixpence-later,  a  shilling,  and  later  a  two-and-sixpence  piece-and  I  would  take  it  to  the  bank  for  deposit.  I  had  never  been  allowed  to  withdraw  even  a  farthing  from  my  bank  account  until  just  a  few  weeks  before  I  was  to  leave;  then  the  whole  account  was  closed  out,  and  I  received  from  the  bank  the  sum  of  six  pounds,  ten  shillings,  andtwo  and  a  half  pence.  We  passed  the  office  of  the  doctor  who  told  my  mother  three  times  that  I  did  not  need  glasses,  that  if  my  eyes  were  feeling  weak  a  glass  of  carrot  juice  a  day  would  make  them  strong  again.  This  happened  when  I  was  eight.  And  so  every  day  at  recess  I  would  run  to  my  school  gate  and  meet  my  mother,  who  was  waiting  for  me  with  a  glass  of  juice  from  carrots  she  had  just  grated  and  then  squeezed,  and  I  would  drink  it  and  then  run  back  to  meet  my  chums.  I  knew  there  was  nothing  at  all  wrong  with  my  eyes,  but  I  had  recently  read  a  story  in  &quot;A  Girl's  Own  Annual&quot;  in  which  the  heroine,  a  girl  a  few  years  older  than  I  was  then,  cut  such  a  figure  to  my  mind  with  the  way  she  was  always  ad-  justing  her  small,  round  horn-rimmed  glasses  that  I  felt  I  must  have  a  pair  ex-  actly  like  them.  When  it  became  clear  that  I  didn't  need  glasses,  I  began  to  complain  about  the  glare  of  the  sun  being  too  much  for  my  eyes,  and  I  walked  around  with  my  hands  shielding  them  -especially  in  my  mother's  presence.  My  mother  then  bought  for  me  a  pair  of  sunglasses  with  the  exact  horn-  rimmed  frames  I  wanted,  and  how  I  enjoyed  the  gestures  of  blowing  on  the  lenses,  wiping  them  with  the  hem  of  my  uniform,  adjusting  the  glasses  when  they  slipped  down  my  nose,  and  just  removing  them  from  their  case  and  putting  them  on.  In  three  weeks,  I  grew  tired  of  them  and  they  found  a  nice  resting  place  in  a  drawer,  along  with  some  other  things  that  at  one  timeor  another  I  couldn't  live  without.  We  passed  the  store  that  sold  only  grooming  aids,  all  imported  from  [REDACTED].  This  store  had  in  it  a  large  porcelain  dog-  white,  with  black  spots  all  over  and  a  red  ribbon  of  satin  tied  around  its  neck.  The  dog  sat  in  front  of  a  white  porcelain  bowl  that  was  always  filled  with  fresh  water,  and  it  sat  in  such  a  way  that  it  looked  as  if  it  had  just  tak-  en  a  long  drink.  When  I  was  a  small  child,  I  would  ask  my  mother,  if  ever  we  were  near  thisstore,  to  please  take  me  to  see  the  dog,  and  I  would  stand  in  front  of  it,  bent  over  slightly,  my  hands  resting  on  my  knees,  and  stare  at  it  and  stare  at  it.  I  thought  this  dog  more  beautiful  and  more  real  than  any  dog  I  had  ever  seen  or  any  dog  I     \n\n\n" b"would  ever  see.  I  must  have  outgrown  my  interest  in  the  dog,  for  when  it  disappeared  I  never  asked  what  became  of  it.  We  passed  the  library,  and  if  there  was  anything  on  this  walk  that  I  might  have  wept  over  leaving  this  most  surely  would  have  been  the  thing.  My  motherhad  been  a  member  of  the  library  long  before  I  was  born.  And  since  she  took  me  everywhere  with  her  when  I  was  quite  little,  when  she  went  to  the  library  she  took  me  along  here,  too.  I  would  sit  in  her  lap  very  quietly  as  she  read  books  that  she  did  not  want  to  take  home  with  her.  I  could  not  read  the  words  yet,  but  just  the  way  they  looked  on  the  page  was  interesting  to  me.  Once,  a  book  she  was  reading  had  a  large  picture  of  a  man  in  it,  and  when  I  asked  her  who  he  was  she  told  me  that  he  was  Louis  Pasteur  and  that  the  book  was  about  his  life.  It  stuck  in  my  mind,  because  she  said  it  was  because  of  him  that  she  boiled  my  milk  to  purify  it  before  I  was  allowed  to  drink  it,  that  it  was  his  idea,  and  thatthat  was  why  the  process  was  called  pasteurization.  One  of  the  things  I  had  put  away  in  my  mother's  old  trunk  in  which  she  kept  all  my  childhood  things  was  my  library  card.  At  that  moment,  I  owed  sevenpence  in  overdue  fees.  As  I  passed  by  all  these  places,  it  was  as  if  I  were  in  a  dream,  for  I  didn't notice  the  people  coming  and  going  in  and  out  of  them,  I  didn't  feel my  feet  touch  ground,  I  didn't  even  feel  my  own  body-I  just  saw  these  places  as  if  they  were  hanging  in  the  air,  not  having  top  or  bottom,  and  as  if  I  had  gone  in  and  out  of  them  all  in  the  same  moment.  The  sun  was  bright;  the  sky  was  blue  and  just  above  my  head.  We  then  arrived  at  the  jetty.  heart  now  beat  fast,  and  no  matter  how  hard  I  tried  I  couldn't  keep  my  mouth  from  falling  open  and  my  nostrils  from  spreading  to  the  ends  of  my  face.  My  old  fear  of  slipping  between  the  boards  of  the  jetty  and  falling  into  the  dark-green  water  where  the  dark-green  eels  lived  came  over  me.  When  my  father's  stomach  started  to  go  bad,  the  doctor  had  rec-  ommended  a  walk  every  evening  right  after  he  atehis  dinner.  Sometimes  he  would  take  me  with  him.  When  he  took  me  with  him,  we  usually  went  to  the  jetty,  and  there  he  would  sit  and  talk  to  the  night  watchman  about  cricket  or  some  other  thing  that  didn't  interest  me,  because  it  was  not  per-  sonal;  they  didn't  talk  about  their  wives,  or  their  children,  or  their  par-  ents,  or  about  any  of  their  likes  and  dislikes.  They  talked  about  things  in  such  a  strange  way,  and  I  didn't  see  what  they  found  funny,  but  sometimes  they  made  each  other  laugh  so  much  that  their  guffaws  would  bound  out  to  sea  and  send  back  an  echo.  I  was  always  sorry  when  we  got  to  the  jetty  and  saw  that  the  night  watchman  on  duty  was  the  one  he  enjoyed  speaking  to;  it  was  like  being  locked  up  in  a  book  filled  with  numbers  and  diagrams  and  what-ifs.  For  the  thingabout  not  being  able  to  understand  and  enjoy  what  they  were  saying  was  I  had  nothing  to  take  my  mind  off  my  fearof  slipping  in  between  the  boards  of  the  jetty.  Now,  too,  I  had  nothing  to  take  my  mind  off  what  was  happening  to  me.  My  mother  and  my  father-I  was  leaving  them  forever.  My  home  on  an  island-I  was  leaving  it  forever.  What  to  make  of  everything?  I  felt  a  familiar  hollow  space  inside.  I  felt  I  was  being  held  down  against  my  will.  I  felt  I  was  burning  up  from  head  to  toe.  I  felt  that  someone  was  tearing  me  up  into  little  pieces  and  soon  I  would  be  able  to  see  all  the  little  piecesas  they  floated  out  into  nothing  in  the  deep  blue  sea.  I  didn't  know  whether  to  laugh  or  cry.  I  could  see  that  it  would  be  better  not  to  think  too  clearly  about  anyone  thing.  The  launch  was  being  made  ready  to  take  me,  along  with  some  other  passengers,  out  to  the  ship  that  was  anchored  in  the  sea.  My  fa-  ther  paid  our  fares,  and  we  joined  a  line  of  people  waiting  to  board.  My  mother  checked  my  bag  to  make  sure  that  I  had  my  passport,  the  money  she  had  given  me,and  a  sheet  of  paper  placed  between  some  pages  in  my  Bible  on  which  were  written  the  names  of  the  relatives-people  I  had  not  known  existed-  with  whom  I  would  live  in  [REDACTED].  Across  from  the  jetty  was  a  wharf,  and  some  stevedores  were  loading  and  un-  loading  barges.  I  don't  know  why  seeing  that  struck  me  so,  but  sud-  denly  a  wave  of  strong  feeling  came  over  me,  and  my  heart  swelled  with  agreat  gladness  as  the  words  &quot;I  shall  never  see  this  again&quot;  spilled  out  inside  me.  But  then,  just  as  quickly,  my  heart  shrivelled  up  and  the  words  &quot;I  shall  never  see  this  again'&quot;  stabbed  at  me.  I  don't  know  what  stopped  me  from  falling  in  a  heap  at  my  parents'  feet.  When  we  were  all  on  board,  the  launchheaded  " b"out  to  sea.  Away  from  the  jetty,  the  water  became  the  customary  blue,  and  the  launch  left  a  wide  path  in  it  that  looked  like  a  road.  I  passed  by  sounds  and  smells  that  were  so  familiar  that  I  had  long  ago  stopped  paying  any  at-  tention  to  them.  But  now  herethey  were,  and  the  ever-present  &quot;I  shall  never  see  this  again&quot;bobbed  up  and  down  inside  me.  There  was  the  sound  of  the  seagull  diving  down  into  the  water  and  coming  up  with  something  silverish  in  its  mouth.  There  was  the  smell  of  the  sea  and  the  sight  of  small  piecesof  rubbish  floating  around  in  it.  There  were  boats  filled  with  fishermen  coming  in  early.  There  was  the  sound  of  their  voices  as  they  shouted  greet-  ings  to  each  other.  There  was  the  hot  sun,  there  was  the  blue  sea,  there  was  the  blue  sky.  Not  very  far  away,  there  was  the  white  sand  of  the  shore,  with  the  run-down  houses  all  crowded  in  next  to  each  other,  for  in  some  places  only  poor  people  lived  near  the  shore.  I  was  seated  in  the  launch  between  my  parents,  and  when  I  realized  that  I  was  gripping  their  hands  tightly  I  glanced  quickly  to  see  if  they  were  looking  at  me  with  scorn,  for  I  felt  sure  that  they  must  have  known  of  my  never-see-this-again  feelings.  But  in-  stead  my  father  kissed  me  on  the  fore-  head  and  my  mother  kissed  me  on  the  mouth,  and  they  both  gave  over  their  hands  to  me,  so  that  I  could  grip  them  as  much  asI  wanted.  I  was  on  the  verge  of  feeling  that  it  had  all  been  a  mistake,  but  I  remembered  that  I  wasn't  a  child  anymore,  and  that  now  when  I  made  up  my  mind  about  something  I  had  tosee  it  through.  At  that  moment,  we  came  to  the  ship,  and  that  was  that.  THE  goodbyes  had  to  be  quick,  the  captain  said.  My  mother  intro-  duced  herself  to  him  and  then  intro-  duced  me.  She  told  him  to  keep  an  eye  on  me,  for  I  had  never  gone  this  far  away  from  home  on  my  own.  She  gave  him  a  letter  to  pass  on  to  the  captain  of  the  next  ship  that  I  would  board  in  Barbados.  They  walked  me  to  my  cabin,  a  small  space  that  I  would  share  with  someone  else-a  woman  I  did  not  know.  I  had  never  before  slept  in  a  room  with  someone  I  did  not  know.  My  father  kissed  me  goodbye  and  told  me  to  be  good  and  to  write  home  often.  After  he  said  this,  he  looked  at  me,  then  looked  at  the  floor  and  swung  his  left  foot,  then  looked  at  me  again.  I  could  see  that  he  wanted  to  say  some-  I  &quot;THINK,  'THEereFrope  I  An     thing  else,  something  that  he  had  never  said  to  me  before,  but  then  he  just  turned  and  walked  away.  My  mother  said,  &quot;Well,&quot;  and  then  she  threw  her  arms  around  me.  Big  tears  streamed  down  her  face,  and  it  must  have  been  that-for  I  could  not  bear  tosee  my  mother  cry-which  started  me  crying,  too.  She  then  tightened  her  arms  around  me  and  held  me  to  her  close,  sothat  I  felt  that  I  couldn't  breathe.  With  that,  my  tears  dried  up,  and  I  was  suddenly  on  my  guard.  \xc2\xab&quot;What  does  she  want  now?&quot;  Isaidto  myself.  Still  holding  me  close  to  her,  she  said,  in  a  voice  that  raked  across  my  skin,  &quot;It  doesn't  matter  what  you  do  or  where  you  go,  I'll  always  be  your  mother  and  this  will  always  be  your  home.&quot;  I  dragged  myself  away  from  her  and  backed  off  a  little,  and  then  I  shook  myself,  as  if  to  wake  myself  out  of  a  stupor.  We  looked  at  each  other  fora  long  time  with  smiles  on  our  faces,  but  I  know  the  opposite  ofthat  was  in  my  heart.  As  if  responding  to  some  invisi-  ble  cue,  we  both  said,  at  the  very  same  moment,  &quot;Well.&quot;  Then  my  mother  turned  around  and  walked  out  the  cabin  door.  I  stood  there  for  I  don't  know  how  long,  and  then  I  remembered  that  it  was  customary  to  stand  on  deck  and  wave  to  your  relatives  who  were  returning  to  shore.  From  the  deck,  I  could  not  see  my  father,  but  I  could  see  my  mother  facing  the  ship,  her  eyes  searching  to  pick  me  out.  I  removed  from  my  bag  ared  cot-  ton  handkerchief  that  she  had  earlier  given  me  for  just  this  purpose,  and  I  waved  it  wildly  in  the  air.  Recogniz-  ing  me  immediately,  she  waved  back  just  as  wildly,  and  we  continued  to  do  this  until  she  became  just  a  dot  in  the  matchbox-size  launch  swallowed  up  in  the  big  blue  sea.  I  went  back  to  my  cabin  and  lay  down  on  my  berth.  Everything  trem-  bled  as  if  it  had  a  spring  at  its  very  center.  I  could  hear  the  small  waves  lap-lapping  around  the  ship.  They  made  an  unexpected  sound,  as  if  a  vessel  filled  with  liquid  had  been  placed  on  its  side  and  now  was  slowly  emptying  out. "