 b"I WAS  leaving  the  Indian  Gardens.  Mosquitoes  shone  gray  in  the  dusk,  and  the  gravel  exit  path  was  scored  byshadows.  Tourists  ahead  of  me  were  putting  on  golf  sweaters-  even  in  June,  [REDACTED]  nights  can  have  a  bite-and  loading  up  onto  bus-  liners.  A  laggard  in  a  fatigue  jacket  was  taking  flash  pictures,  triggering  light-  ning  on  the  banks  of  flower  specimens  -the  mirabilis,  dianthus,  campanula.  With  him  was  a  girl  barbered  like  a  boy.  Her  fine  side-parted  hair  and  her  black  satin  jacket  put  me  in  mind  of  a  Little  League  pitcher.  Now  and  then,  she'd  blow  up  a  gum  balloon  and  hold  the  balloon  just  under  her  nose,  which  was  a  button  nose,  a  daub,  a  very  winning  nose.  She'd  crack  the  balloon  when  the  flash  camera  exploded.  Watching  us  was  a  gardener,  who  drank  from  a  can  of  diet  Dr  Pepper.  He  watched  the  girl  especially,  and  then  he  called  to  her  and  to  me  and  to  the  photographer,  &quot;Let's  go,  folks!&quot;  We  were  slow  because  the  girl  was  lollygagging,  the  photographer  was  photographing,  and  I  was  on  crutches.  &quot;Hey,  hey,  sorry.  Let's  go,&quot;  the  gardener  said.  He  wore  a  spit-and-  polish  khaki  uniform.  I  was  swinging  on  the  crutches,  making  a  bad  job  of  it,  because  of  the  gravel  and  because  crutches  were  still  hard  for  me.  &quot;Quittin'  time,&quot;  the  gardener  said,  and  the  girl  snarled  a  curse  at  him.  It  was  a  full-blown  vile  curse,  and  I  laughed  on  my  sticks.  &quot;What's  it  to  you  personally?&quot;  she  asked  the  gardener.  &quot;Jessie,&quot;said  the  photographer,  but  he  said  his  warning  halfheartedly,  as  he  was  down  on  a  knee  and  sighting  through  his  camera,  preparing  to  blind  us  all.  &quot;I  mean,  giveusa  break,&quot;  Jessie  said  to  the  gardener.  &quot;This  guy  with  the  wood  can't  go  any  faster!&quot;  The  gardener-a  kid,  really-hid  from  her  by  standing  all  tilted  back,  hand  on  hip,  and  chewing  up  diet  Dr  Pepper  as  if  he  were  being  paid  to  do  it.  When  we  were  at  the  front  gates,  the  photographer  said  to  me,  &quot;Where're  you  parked?  Far?&quot;  &quot;Over  by  the  music  thing,&quot;  I  said.  I  didn't  want  to  call  it  the  Heath  Mu-  sical  Gazebo.  &quot;We'll  drive  you  over.  We're  right  here,&quot;  he  said.  They  owned  one  of  those  new  vehi-  cles  that  are  part  car  and  part  van.  It  was  two-toned:  the  color  of  sand  and  the  color  of  wet  sand.  It  was  im-  maculate,  and  in  the  well  behind  the  passenger  seat  there  was  leather  luggage  and  there  was  camera  equip-  ment  in  cases  of  different  shapes.  Now  the  Jessie  girl  was  wide  open  and  cheerful.  &quot;You  look  exhausted.  We're  from  [REDACTED],&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You  an  injured  skier?&quot;  Their  van  smelled  of  new  acrylic  carpet.  I  sat  legs  up,  in  the  back  seat,  the  damaged  left  leg  bent  by  thick  Ace  wraps.  &quot;Are  you  a  flower  fan?&quot;  he  asked  me.  &quot;Never  planted  anything.  I  just  read  the  engraved  plaques  at  the  garden.  And  I've  never  been  on  skis,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Dump  him  out,&quot;  Jessie  said.  &quot;Towa  City.  That's  Gibbs  with  two  b's.  Joe  and  Jessie,&quot;  the  photographer  said.  He  had  sloping  shoulders  and  the  flattened  seat  some  guys  get  around  forty,  but  he  could  have  been  any  age,  and  so  could  his  lank  Jessie.  &quot;I  went  to  high  school  in  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  twenty  years  ago,&quot;  I  told  them.  &quot;No  baloney?&quot;  Joe  Gibbs  said.  &quot;Give  him  chicken,&quot;  Jessie  said.  They  had  fried  chicken  in  a  cooler,  and  we  ate  and  talked  about  [REDACTED]  and  farm  country,  how  a  summer  park  there,  with  the  plains  so  flat,  was  a  much  more  eventful  thing  than  it  was  here  in  the  hill-crowded  [REDACTED].  Then  Gibbs  drove  me  over  to  the  music  stand.  I  said,  &quot;My  car  is  that  beauty  with  the  caved-in  doors.  The  accordion.&quot;  &quot;That  what  happened  to  the  leg?  A  wreck?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;Stupid  jogging.  I  jumped  off  a  rock.&quot;  Jessie  said,  &quot;Now  you  can't  run  and  you're  depressed  because  you  were  ad-  dicted  to  it  and  your  body  is  going  through  endorphin  withdrawal.  I  read  this.&quot;  &quot;Explains  a  lot,&quot;  I  said.  Actually  I  had  been  happy  lately,  and  for  no  reason  sourceless  elation  dol  TTT)...   visited  me  in  my  waking  hours,  as  if  in  compensation  for  my  hurt  leg.  \xe2\x80\x9c7HEN  Joe  and  Jessie  had  dropped  me,  I  waited  until  they  cleared  the  lot  to  get  into  my  car,  because  usually  to  get  into  my  car  I  had  to  grasp  the  ridged  sill  over  the  driver's  window  and  heave  myself  up  and  fit  my  legs  through,  or  dive  through  the  window  and  then  sort  myself  out  once  I  was  in.  But  for  either  method  I  had  to  be  healthy,  and  my  way  mow  was  more  humiliating:  back  up,  sit  down  on  top  of  the  jammed  door,  jackknife  body,  topple  into  the  bucket  seat.  I  took  [REDACTED],  which  followed  a  gorge  and  a  booming  river.  The  water  in  the  river  was  milky  and  loud,  and  it  suited  me  well.  I  went  through  Little  Rudney,  then  up  ontoanotch  in  the  mountains  where  my  friend  Livy  was  summering.  She  was  a  poet,  working  in  a  barn  studio  behind  her  husband's  mother's  house.  It  was  a  Green  Mountain  house,  lit  up  this  night.  The  driveway  was  planks  of  con-  crete  on  grass.  There  were  low  lamps  staked  out  like  runway  lights  leading  to  the  barn.  My  friend  Livy  was  in  the  yard.  She  kindly  looked  away  while  I  disentangled  myself  from  the  car  and  lined  myself  up  on  my  sticks.  &quot;Aren't  the  gardens  bliss?  You  don't  look  blissful.&quot;  &quot;Bliss,&quot;  I  said.  Livy  was  in  a  leotard  and  bib  over-  alls,  and  her  clothes  and  her  lovely  dark  hair  were  drizzled  with  green  paint.  She  had  spent  herafternoon  painting  her  barn-corner  studio.  When  I  was  settled  into  an  alumi-  num  chaise  and  drinking  wine  with  her,  I  told  Livy  about  our  fellow-  556e6974656420537461746573ns.  She  and  I  had  been  friends,  and  then  closer  than  friends,  way  back  in  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  way  back  in  tenth  grade.  We  sat  on  the  aluminum  summer  furniture  and  drank  dandelion  wine,  and  we  ate  some  cheese  that  was  stud-  ded  with  black  pepper.  As  we  talked  we  heard  the  grumble  of  a  plane,  or  maybe  thunder,  rolling  across,  over  our  heads,  like  a  heavy  ball  on  hard  wood.  &quot;How  did  your  work  go?&quot;  I  asked,  and  Livy  looked  uncomfortable.  I  never  askedabout  or  read  her  poetry,  and  if  she  had  ever  seen  one  of  my  films  she  had  never  said  so.  I  produced  and  directed  films,.  I  was  here  to  make  one  now,working  out  of  a  motel  room,  but  had  so  far  done  " b"nothing  more  than  scout  location  sites.  T  wo  months.  &quot;I  meant  the  painting.  How  did  thet  go?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Oh,  great!&quot;  she  said.  Her  husband  came  now  from  the  lighted  kitchen  of  the  house  and  rambled  over  to  us.  Conyers.  Conyers  had  a  lot  of  happy  energy,  a  grizzled  cinnamon  beard,  and  poodle-curly  cinna-  mon  hair.  He,  too,  was  a  poet,  but  he  looked  like  a  poor  interne  in  his  rum-  pled  lab  coat.  &quot;Hey,  Dad,&quot;  he  said  to  me.  &quot;Didn't  the  gardens  cheer  you  up?  Aren't  they  bliss?  Just  breathing  there  is  better,  I  think.&quot;  Conyers  was  younger  than  Livy  and  I,  and  the  only  problemwith  him  was  how  much  I  wanted  totalkto  Livy  about  our  old  chemistry  teacher,  or  Hartford  Street,  where  the  baseball  diamond  was,  or  about  Jeff  Lingeman's  Buick  Wildcat,  with  thetop  that  once  flew  off  and  in  which  Jeff  went  after  all  sorts  of  land-speed  records.  Conyers  sat  with  his  back  against  the  barn's  side  and  his  large  red  poodle  head  resting  on  slats,  and  he  groaned.  &quot;I  made  steakburgers,  but  I  ate  them  myself,&quot;  he  said.  He  groaned  again  and  cradled  his  belly  inhis  palms,  and  Livy  laughed  at  him.  &quot;'T  wo  burgers!&quot;  he  said.  The  floodlights  bolted  to  the  barn  eaves  showed  the  lawn.  It  looked  brushed  with  wet  green  paint,  as  if  it  were  the  grass  Livy  had  been  paint-  ing.  gI  loaded  myself  back  into  the  car  after  a  while.  The  split  muffler  rang  out  like  an  air  drill.  The  night  was  moist  enough  and  cold  enough  now  to  show  the  spray  of  my  headlights  on  vapor.  The  left  light,  crazily  askew,  aimed  at  treetops.  &quot;'That's  great!  You  can  spot  snip-  ers!&quot;  Conyers  yelled.  He  and  Livy,  laced  up  in  each  other's  arms,  facing  me,  seemed  to  love  my  car  and  its  big  noise  and  its  creased  metal.  HEN  I  went  tosee  Richard  Cream.  My  first  Little  Rudney  acquaintance  was  Richard,  whom  I  went  to  for  tax  help  back  in  April.  Richard  was  a  C.P.A.  He  lived  over  a   hardware  store  in  a  long  and  shallow  apartment  with  a  slanting  ceiling.  His  tall  windows  watched  Thorn  Street-  the  main  street  of  Little  Rudney.  Richard  had  six  or  seven  suits,  on  varnished  wooden  hangers  and  in  sleeves  of  cleaner's  cellophane,  hang-  ing  up  like  old  tapestries.  His  shirts  were  out,  too:  shirts  with  pastel  weaves,  all  buttoned  from  the  throat  down,  andon  wire  hangers  that  were  slung  from  nails  in  the  walls.  The  clothes  were  like  a  crowd  of  observers,  an  audience  for  his  chess  tournaments.  He  played  a  video  chess  game-Rich-  ard  versus  the  computer-on  his  tele-  vision  screen.  &quot;Sit  down,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Or,  in  your  case,  fall  down.&quot;  Probably,  Richard  had  some  fear  of  drawers.  He  kept  out  a  lot  of  his  cli-  ents'  files,  stacked  on  his  worn  furni-  ture.  &quot;I'll  get  you  yet!  Bitch!&quot;  he  said  to  the  television.  &quot;I'll  show  you!&quot;  His  computer  chess  opponent,  Richard  in-  sisted,  was  feminine.  The  chessboard  glowed  back:  blue  and  white  and  gold,  serene.  She's  besting  me,&quot;  Richard  said.  He  was  in  a  tartan  robe,  and  he  was  all  pushed  forward  on  his  sofa.  He  twisted  the  joy-stick  handle.  One  of  his  knights  clicked  from  its  place  into  an  L-shaped  knight's  move.  &quot;Grab  a  mug  or  something,&quot;  Rich-  ard  told  me.  I  was  in  pain,  as  usual,  now  that  the  sun  was  gone.  I  found  an  iced-tea  glass  and  splashed  into  it  some  of  Richard's  Scotch.  &quot;Check!  I'm  in  check!&quot;  he  said.  He  used  language  on  the  machine  that  was  a  match  for  Jessie's  back  at  the  Indian  Gardens.  He  flung  himself  into  the  cushions  of  the  sofa.  &quot;You  ever  heard  this  ad?  The  one  that  says,  'Four  out  of  five  dentists  surveyed  recommend  sugarless  gum  for  their  patients  who  chew  gum'?&quot;  I  said  it  sounded  familiar.  &quot;I  want  to  know,  who  is  that  fifth  dentist!&quot;  Richard  said.  \xc2\xab&quot;Someone  to  avoid.&quot;  Richard  had  a  long  swerving  face.  His  nose  swerved,  too.  His  mustache  and  hair  were  white,  and  his  gaze  was  already  silvery  with  the  effects  of  Scotch.  He  said,  &quot;You've  just  had  a  five-hundred-dollar  root-canal  job,  " b"and  your  dentist  tells  you,  'By  the  way,  if  you're  going  to  chew  gum  right  now,  I  recommend  Bazooka'!&quot;  RICHARD\xe2\x80\x99S  cleaning  person  brought  us  around  the  next  morning;  me  in  my  chair,  Richard  on  his  sofa.  His  cleaning  person  was  a  schoolgirl-no  more  than  fifteen,  and  plain  as  noodles.  &quot;'There's  some  coffee  on  the  gas  ring,&quot;  she  said.  Richard  thanked  her  and  introduced  us.  He  said,  &quot;Kim,  do  you  know  this  man?  He  can  put  you  into  the  movies.&quot;  &quot;I  just  wish  you  would  have  your  coffee  and  go  sothat  I  can  clean,&quot;  Kim  said.  She  had  abouther  an  adolescent's  flustered  air-all  shame  and  vanity.  And  I  was  sympathetic  but  glad  to  leave  her  in  peace.  Behind  the  hardware  store,  like  an  annex,  was  a  tiny  wooden  house-a  tailor's  shop.  Richard  and  I  went  there  first,  so  that  he  could  have  a  pairof  summer  trousers  snugged  up.  Sally,  the  tailor,  was  hairless  and  petite  as  his  shop,  and  there  was  a  measuring  ribbon  draped  over  his  shoulders.  With  my  crutches,  I  felt  much  too  big  for  the  space  there,  which  was  made  to  seem  smaller  by  awallpaper  of  tacked-up  postcards.  These  were  views  of  4974616c79  or  the  Med-  iterranean  or  the  Azores,  and  some  were  holy  cards,  and  all  of  them  had     lost  their  original  colors  to  sunlight  or  just  age.  Out  on  the  sidewalk,  Richard  said,  &quot;A  great  thing  for  a  hangover  is  a  haircut.&quot;  The  barber's  scissors  chided  me  with  tsk,  tsk  noises.  I  let  myself  be  shaved.  I  was  content  under  the  pin-  striped  sheet.  His  paper  choker  made  Richard  look  beatific-like  a  priest,  or  at  least  a  chastened  man.  It  was  a  shadowless  Saturday.  The  sky  was  pearly.  We  had  a  late  break-  fast  in  the  Thorn  Street  Grille.  My  mowed,  combed,  and  oiled  head,  the  scraped  feeling  on  my  jaws,  the  high-  voltage  coffee,  the  neat  wedges  of  but-  tered  toast  all  conspired  to  give  me  an  illusion  of  control  over  my  own  ways  and  means.  It  was  abig  illusion,  just  a  new  brand  of  intoxication  I  had  been  feeling  lately.  I  bought  a  paper  from  a  kid  who  was  peddling  them  out  of  a  canvas  apron.  Richard  used  a  wooden  match-the  kind  that  comes  in  the  slide-out  drawer  of  a  small  paper  box-to  light  a  grand  cigar.  The  bartender  was  just  reporting  for  the  lunch  hour,  in  front  of  the  grill.  We  watched  him  setting  up  his  register,  arranging  his  serving  place,  cleaning  his  varnished  plank  in  the  manner  of  all  bartenders  every-  where:  swipe  with  a  cloth  rag,  flop  over  the  rag,  re-swipe.  Then  the  leg  pain  switched  itself  on,  and  I  recalled  how  I  had  hopped  around  Richard's  apartment  the  night  before  and  how  I  had  thought,  after  one  week,  that  I  was  well  on  the  way  to  being  healed.  I  remembered  with  a  shudder  how  I  had  talked  away  my  idea  for  a  Ver-  mont  film,  a  film  about  my  friend  Livy,  the  poet.  How  I  had  told  it  all  to  Richard.  Today,  of  course,  I  did  not  want  to  make  the  film  anymore.  I  thought  how  it  was  a  stupid  idea  for  a  film  anyway.  And  maybe,  I  thought,  it  was  a  stupid  idea  to  come  to  [REDACTED]  at  all,  and  to  take  a  cracker-  box  fleapit  motel  room  in  Little  Rudney,  and  to  leave  the  city,  even  if  it  did  mean  being  around  Livy  for  two  whole  months.  &quot;Now  I'll  have  a  lit-  tle  eyewash  with  my  eggs  and  bacon,&quot;  Richard  said.  &quot;So  you're  the  fifth  dentist,&quot;  I  said.  Richard  dusted  his  palms  and  straightened  the  knot  in  his  already  perfect  tie.  &quot;The  Devil  himself,&quot;  he  said.  My  leg  was  throbbing  and  I  told  myself  a  Bloody  Mary  at  eleven-thirty  in  the  morning  was  for  the  pain,  and  was  acceptable.  &quot;Whoever  thinksa  guy  on  crutches  would  get  a  girl's  sympathy  is  surely  wrong,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I'd  have  women  hanging  on  me  if  that  were  true,&quot;  Richard  said  and  he  toasted  me  with  his  water  glass.  I  went  back  to  the  Indian  Gardens  after  that  breakfast,  in  the  huge  clatter  of  my  car.  I  was  banking  on  Joe  Gibbs'  enthusiasm  for  the  place,  hop-  ing  he  would  return  to  take  more  pic-  tures  and  bring  his  daughter  or  child  bride,  whatever  she  was,  with  him.  I  had  no  designs  on  her  or  anything.  I  only  wanted  to  see  her  in  the  green,  dappled,  pretty  light.  I  wanted  to  see  her  being  insouciant  and  bored  and  snapping  her  gum  at  my  idea  of  Eden."