 b"THE  first  weekend  at  their  sum-  mer  house  in  [REDACTED],  Jo,  Tom,  and  Byron  went  out  for  pizza.  Afterward,  Tom  decided  that  he  wanted  to  go  dancing  at  a  roadside  bar.  Byron  had  come  with  his  father  and  Jo  grudgingly,  enthusiastic  about  the  pizza  but  fearing  that  it  would  bea  longer  night  thanhe  wanted.  &quot;They  have  Pac-Man  here,&quot;  Tom  said  to  his  son,  as  he  swung  thecar  into  the  bar  parking  strip,  and  for  acouple  of  seconds  it  was  obvious  that  Byron  was  debating  whether  or  not  to  go  in  with  them.  &quot;Nah,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  don't  want  to  hang  out  with  a  bunch  of  drunks  while  you  two  dance.&quot;  Byron  had  his  sleeping  bag  with  him  in  the  car.  The  sleeping  bag  and  a  pile  of  comic  books  were  his  constant  companions.  He  was  using  the  rolled-  up  bag  as  a  headrest.  Now  he  turned  and  punched  it  flatter,  making  it  more  a  pillow,  and  then  stretched  out  to  emphasize  that  he  wouldn't  go  in  with  them.  &quot;Maybe  we  should  just  go  home,&quot;  Jo  said,  as  Tom  pulled  open  the  door  to  the  bar.  &quot;What  for?&quot;  (\xe2\x80\x98Byron_\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;Oh,  Byron's  overindulged,&quot;  Tom  said,  putting  his  handon  her  shoulder  and  pushing  her  forward  with  his  fin-  gertips.  Byronwas  Tom's  son  from  his  first  marriage.  It  was  the  second  summer  that  he  was  spending  with  them  on  vacation  in  [REDACTED].  He'd  been  al-  lowed  to  decide,  and  he  had  chosen  to  come  with  them.  In  the  school  year,  he  lived  with  his  mother  in  [REDACTED].  This  year,  he  was  suddenly  square  and  sturdy,  like  the  Japanese  robots  he  col-  lected-compact,  complicated  robots,  capable  of  doing  useful  but  frequently  unnecessary  tasks,like  a  Swiss  Army  knife.  It  was  difficult  for  Tom  to  real-  ize  that  his  son  was  ten  years  old  now.  The  child  he  conjured  up  when  he  closed  his  eyes  at  night  was  always  an  infant,  the  tangled  hair  still  as  smooth  as  peach  fuzz,  with  the  scars  and  bruises  of  summer  erased,  so  that  By-  ron  was  again  a  sleek,  seal-like  baby.  The  band's  instruments  were  piled  on  the  stage.  Here  and  there,  amps  rose  out  of  tangled  wire  like  trees  growing  from  the  forest's  tangled  floor.  A  pretty  young  woman  with  a  blond  pompadour  was  on  the  dance  floor,  shaking  her  puff  of  hair  and  smiling  at  her  partner,  with  her  Sony  earphones  clamped  on,  sothat  she  heard  her  own  music  while  the  band  took  a  break  and  the  jukebox  played.  The  man  stoodthere  shuffling,  mak-  ingalmost  no  attempt  to  dance.  Tom  recognized  them  as  the  couple  who  had  outbid  him  on  a  chain  saw  he  wanted  at  an  auction  he  had  gone  to  earlier  in  the  day.  On  the  jukebox,  Dolly  Parton  was  doing  the  speaking  part  of  &quot;I  Will  Always  Love  You.&quot;  Green  bottles  of  Rolling  Rock,  scattered  across  the  bar  top,  had  the  odd  configuration  of  mis-  placed  bowling  pins.  Dolly  Parton's  sadness  was  coupled  with  great  sincer-  ity.  The  interlude  over,  she  began  to  sing  again,  with  greater  feeling.  &quot;I'm  not  kidding  you,&quot;  a  man  wearing  an  orange  football  jersey  said,  squeezing  the  biceps  of  the  burly  man  who  sat  next  to  him.&quot;I  says  to  him,  'I  don't  understand  your  question.  What  is  tuna  fish  like?  It's  tuna  fish&quot;&quot;  The  burly  man's  face  contorted  with  laughter.  There  was  a  neon  sign  behind  the  bar,  with  shining  bubbles  moving  through  a  bottle  of  Miller.  When  Tom  was  with  his  first  wife,  back  when  Byron  was  about  three  years  old,  he  had  taken  the  lights  off  the  Christ-  mas  tree  one  year  while  needles  rained  down  on  the  bedsheet  snowbank  they  had  mounded  around  the  tree  stand.  He  had  never  seen  a  tree  dry  out  so  fast.  He  remembered  snapping  off  branches,  then  going  to  get  a  garbage  bag  to  put  them  in.  He  snapped  off  branch  after  branch,  stuffing  them  inside,  feeling  clever  that  he  had  fig-  ured  out  a  way  to  get the  dried-out  tree  down  four  flights  of  stairs  without  needles  drop-  ping  everywhere.  Byron  came  out  of  the  back  room  while  this  was  go-  ing  on,  saw  the  limbs  disappearing  into  the  black  bag,  and  began  to  cry.  His  wife  never  let  him  forget  all  the  wrong  things  he  had  said  and  done  to  Byron.  He  was  still  not  entirely  sure  what  Byron  had  been  upset  about  that  day,  but  he  had  made  it  worse  by  getting  angry  and  say-  ing  that  the  tree  was  only  a  tree,  not  a  mem-  ber  of  the  family.  The  bartender  passed  by,  clutching  beer  bot-  tles  by  their  necks  as  " b"if  they  were  birds  he  had  shot.  Tom  tried  to  get  his  eye,  but  he  was  gone,  involved  in  some  story  being  told  at  the  far  end  of  the  bar.  &quot;Let's  dance,&quot;  Tom  said,  and  Jo  moved  into  his  arms.  They  walked  to  the  dance  floor  and  slow-  danced  to  an  old  Dylan  song.  The  harmonica  cut  through  the  air  like  a  party  blower,  shrilly  unrolling.  When  they  left  and  went  back  to  the  car,  Byron  pretended  to  be  asleep.  If  he  had  really  been  sleeping,  he  would  have  stirred  when  they  opened  and  closed  the  car  doors.  He  was  lying  on  his  back,  eyes  squeezed  shut  a  little  too  tightly,  enclosed  in  the  padded  blue  chrysalis  of  the  sleeping  bag.  THE  next  morning,  Tom  worked  in  the  garden,  moving  from  row  to  row  as  he  plant-  ed  tomato  seedlings  and  marigolds.  He  had  a  two-month  vacation  be-  cause  he  was  changing  jobs,  and  he  was  deter-  mined  to  stay  ahead  of  things  in  the  garden  this  year.  It  was  a  very  careful-  ly  planned  bed,  more  like  a  well-  woven  rug  than  like  a  vegetable  patch.  Jo  was  on  the  porch,  reading  &quot;Moll  Flanders&quot;  and  watching  him.  He  was  flattered  but  also  slightly  worried  that  she  wanted  to  make  love  every  night.  The  month  before,  on  her  thirty-fourth  birthday,  they  had  drunk  a  bottle  of  Dom  P\xc3\xa9rignon  and  she  had  asked  him  if  he  was  still  sure  he  didn't  want  to  have  a  child  with  her.  He  told  her  that  he  didn't,  and  reminded  her  that  they  had  agreed  on  that  before  they  got  married.  He  had  thought,  from  the  look  on  her  face,  that  she  was  about  to  argue  with  him-she  was  a  teacher  and  she  loved  debate-but  she  dropped  the  subject,  saying,  &quot;You  might  change  your  mind  someday.&quot;  Since  then,  she  had  begun  to  tease  him.  &quot;Change  your  mind?&quot;  she  would  whisper,  curling  up  next  to  him  on  the  sofa  and  unbuttoning  his  shirt.  She  even  wanted  to  make  love  in  the  living  room.  He  was  afraid  Byron would wake  up  and  come  downstairs  for  some  reason,  so  he  would  turn  off  the  televi-  sion  and  go  upstairs  with  her.  &quot;What  is  this?&quot;  he  asked  once  lightly,  hoping  it  wouldn't  provoke  her  into  a  discus-  sion  of  whether  he  had  changed  his  mind  about  having  a  child.  &quot;I  always  feel  this  way  about  you,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Do  you  think  I  like  it  the  rest  of  the  time,  when  teaching  takes  all  my  energy?&quot;  On  another  evening,  she  whispered  something  else  that  surprised  him-  something  he  didn't  want  to  pursue.  She  said  that  it  made  her  feel  old  to  realize  that  having  friends  she  could  stay  up  all  night  talking  to  was  a  thing  of  the  past.  &quot;Do  you  remember  that  from  college?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;All  those  people  who  took  themselves  so  seri-  ously  that  everything  they  felt  was  a  fact.&quot;  He  was  glad  that  she  had  fallen  asleep  without  really  wanting  an  an-  swer.  Byron  puzzled  him  less  these  days  and  Jo  puzzled  him  more.  He  looked  up  at  the  sky  now:  bright  blue,  with  clouds  trailing  out  thinly,  so  that  the  ends  looked  as  if  kite  strings  were  attached.  He  was  rinsing  his  hands  with  the  garden  hose  at  the  side  of  the  house  when  a  car  came  up  the  drive-  way  and  coasted  to  a  stop.  He  turned  off  the  water  and  shook  his  hands,  walking  forward  to  investigate.  A  man  in  his  forties  was  getting  out  of  the  car-clean-cut,  pudgy.  He  reached  back  into  thecar  for  a  brief-  case,  then  straightened  up.  &quot;I'm  Ed  Rickman!&quot;  he  called.  &quot;How  are  you  today?&quot;  Tom  nodded.  A  salesman,  and  he  was  trapped.  He  wiped  his  hands  on  his  jeans.  &quot;'To  get  right  to  the  point,  there  are  only  two  roads  in  this  whole  part  of  the  world  I  really  love,  and  this  is  one  of  them,&quot;  Rickman  said.  &quot;You're  one  of  the  new  people-hell,  everybody  who  didn't  crash  up  against  Plymouth  Rock  is  new  in  New  England,  right?  I  tried  to  buy  this  acreage  years  ago,  and  the  farmer  who  owned  it  wouldn't  sell.  Made  an  offer  way  back  then,  when  " b"money  meant  something,  and  the  man  wouldn't  sell.  You  own  all  these  acres  now?&quot;  &quot;T  wo,&quot;  Tom  said.  &quot;Hell,&quot;  Ed  Rickman  said.  &quot;You'd  be  crazy  not  to  be  happy  here,  right?&quot;  He  looked  over  Tom's  shoulder.  &quot;Have  a  garden?&quot;  Rickman  said.  &quot;Out  back,&quot;  Tom  said.  &quot;You'd  be  crazy  not  to  have  a  gar-  den,&quot;  Rickman  said.  Rickman  walked  past  Tom  and  across  the  lawn.  Tom  wanted  the  visi-  tor  to  be  the  one  to  back  off,  but  Rickman  took  his  time,  squinting  and  slowly  staring  about  the  place.  Tom  was  reminded  of  the  way  so  many  people  perused  box  lots  at  the  auction  -the  cartons  they  wouldn't  let  you  root  around  in,  because  the  good  things  thrown  on  top  covered  a  boxful  of  junk.  &quot;I  never  knew  this  place  was  up  for  grabs,&quot;  Rickman  said.  &quot;I  was  given  to  understand  the  house  and  land  were  an  eight-acre  parcel,  and  not  for  sale.&quot;  &quot;I  guess  two  of  them  were,&quot;  Tom  said.  Rickman  ran  his  tongue  over  his  teeth  a  few  times.  One  of  his  front  teeth  was  discolored-almost  black.  &quot;Get  this  from  the  farmer  himself?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Real-estate  agent,  three  years  ago.  Advertised  in  the  paper.&quot;  Rickman  looked  surprised.  He  looked  down  at  his  Top-Siders.  He  sighed  deeply  and  looked  at  the  house.  &quot;I  guess  my  timing  was  bad,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;That  or  a  question  of  style.  These  New  Englanders  are  kind  of  like  dogs.  Slow  to  move.  Sniff  around  before  they  decide  what  they  think.&quot;  He  held  his  briefcase  in  front  of  his  body.  He  slapped  it  a  couple  of  times.  It  re-  minded  'Tom  of  a  beer  drinker  patting  his  belly.  &quot;Everything  changes,&quot;  Rickman  said.  &quot;Not  so  hard  to  imagine  that  one  day  this'll  all  be  skyscrapers.  Condo-  miniums  or  what  have  you.&quot;  He  looked  at  the  sky.  &quot;Don't  worry,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'm  not  a  developer.  I  don't  even  have  a  card  to  leave  with  you  in  case  you  ever  change  your  mind.  In  my  experience,  the  only  people  who  change  their  minds  are  women.  There  was  a  time  when  you  could  state  that  view  without  having  somebody  jump  all  overyou,  too.&quot;  Rickman  held  out  his  hand.  Tom  shook  it.  &quot;Just  a  lovelyplace  you  got  here,&quot;  Rickman  said.  &quot;Thank  you  for  your  time.&quot;  &quot;Sure,&quot;  Tom  said. Rickman  walked  away,  swinging  the  briefcase.  His  trousers  were  too  big;  they  wrinkled  across  the  seat  like  an  opening  accordion.  When  he  got  to  the  car,  he  looked  back  and  smiled.  Then  he  threw  the  briefcase  onto  the  passenger  seat-not  a  toss  but  a  throw  -got  in,  slammed  the  door,  and  drove  away.  Tom  walked  around  to  the  back  of  the  house.  On  the  porch,  Jo  was  still  reading.  There  was  a  pile  of  paper-  backs  on  the  small  wicker  stool  beside  her  chair.  It  made  him  a  little  angry  to  think  that  she  had  been  happily  read-  ing  whilehe  had  wasted  so  much  time  with  Ed  Rickman.  &quot;Some  crazy  guy  pulled  up  and  wanted  to  buy  the  house,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'Tell  him  we'd  sell  for  a  million?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  wouldn't,&quot;  he  said.  Jo  looked  up.  He  turned  and  went  into  the  kitchen.  Byron  had  left  the top  off  a  jar,  and  a  fly  had  died  in  the  peanut  butter.  Tom  opened  the  refrig-  erator  and  looked  over  the  possibilities.  Later  that  same  week,  Tom  discov-  ered  that  Rickman  had  been  talking  to  Byron.  The  boy  said  he  had  been  walking  down  the  road  just  then,  re-  turning  from  fishing,  when  acar  rolled  up  alongside  him  and  a  man  pointed  to  the  house  and  asked  him  if  he  lived  there.  Byron  was  in  a  bad  mood.  He  hadn't  caught  anything.  He  propped  his  rod  beside  the  porch  door  and  started  into  the  house,but  Tom  stopped  him.  &quot;Then  what?&quot;  Tom  said.  &quot;He  had  this  black  tooth,&quot;  Byron  said,  tapping  his  own  front  tooth.  &quot;He  said  he  had  a  house  around  here,  and  a  kid  my  age  who  needed  somebody  to  hang  out  with.  He  asked  if  he  could  bring  this  dumb  kid  over,  and  I  said  no,  because  I  wouldn't  be  around  after  today.&quot;  Byron  sounded  so  self-assured  that  Tom  did  a  double  take,  wondering  where  Byron  was  going.  &quot;I  don't  want  to  meet  some  creepy  kid,&quot;  Byron  said.  &quot;If  the  guy  comes  and  asks  you,  say  no-O.K.?&quot;  &quot;'Then  what  did  he  say?&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;'Talked  about  some  part  of  the  river  where  it  was  good  fishing.  Where  the  river  curved,  or  something.  It's  no  big  deal.  I've  met  a  lot  of  guys  like  him.&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  mean?&quot;  Tom  said.  " b"&quot;Guys  that  talk  justto  talk,&quot;  Byron  said.  &quot;Why  are  you  making  a  big  deal  out  of  it?&quot;  &quot;Byron,  the  guy's  nuts,&quot;  Tom  said.  &quot;I  don't  want  you  to  talk  to  him  any-  more.  If  you  see  him  around  here  again,  run  and  get  me.&quot;  &quot;Right,&quot;  Byron  said.  &quot;Should  I  scream,  too?&quot;  Tom  shivered.  The  im-  age  of  Byron  screaming  frightened  him,  and  for  a  few  seconds  he  let  himself  believe  that  he  should  call  the  police.  But  if  he  called,  what  would  he  say-that  someone  had  asked  if  his  house  was  for  sale  and  later  asked  Byron  if  he'd  play  with  his  son?  Tom  pulled  out  a  cig-  arette  and  lit  it.  He'd  drive  across  town  to  see  the  farmer  who'd  owned  the  land,  he  decided,  and  find  out  what  he  knew  about  Rickman.  He  didn't  remember  exactly  how  to  get  to  the  farmer's  house,  and  he  couldn't  remember  his  name.  The  real-estate  agent  had  pointed  out  the  place,  at  the  top  ofa  hill,  the  summer  he  showed  Tom  the  property,  so  he  could  call  him  and  find  out.  But  first  he  was  going  to  make  sure  that  Jo  got  home  safely  from  the  gro-  cery  store.  The  phone  rang,  and  Byron  turned  to  pick  it  up.  &quot;Hello?&quot;  Byron  said.  Byron  frowned.  He  avoid-  ed  Tom's  eyes.  Then,  just  when  Tom  felt  sure  that  it  was  Rickman,  Byron  said,  &quot;Nothing  much.&quot;  A  long  pause.  &quot;Yeah,  sure,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'm  thinking  about  ornithology.&quot;  It  was  Byron'smother.  THE  real-estate  agent  remembered  him.  Tom  told  him  about  Rick-  man.  &quot;De  de  de  de,  De  dede  de,&quot;  the  agent  sang-the  notes  of  the  theme  music  from  &quot;The  Twilight  Zone.&quot;  The  agent  laughed.  He  told  him  the  farmer  whose  land  he  had  bought  was  named  Albright.  He  didn't  have  the  man's  telephone  number,  but  was  sure  it  was  in  the  directory.  It  was.  Tom  got  in  the  car  and  drove  to  the  farm.  A  young  woman  working  in  a  flower  garden  stood  up  and  held  her  trowel  up  like  a  torch  when  his  car  pulled  into  the  drive.  Then  she  looked  surprised  that  he  was  a  stranger.  He  introduced  himself.  She  said  her  name.  It  turned  out  she  was  Mr.  Albright's  niece,  who  had  come  with  her  family  to  watch  the  place  while  her  aunt  and  uncle  were  in  New  Zealand.  She  didn't  know  anything  about  the  sale  of  the  land;  no,  nobody  else  had  come  around  asking.  Tom  described  Rick-  man  anyway.  No,  she  said,  she  hadn't  seen  anyone  who  looked  like  that.  Over  on  a  side  lawn,  two  Irish  setters  were  barking  madly  at  them.  A  man-  he  must  have  been  the  woman's  hus-  band-was  holding  them  by  their  col-  lars.  The  dogs  were  going  wild,  and the  young  woman  obviously  wanted  to  end  the  conversation.  Tom  didn't  think  about  leaving  her  his  telephone  number  until  it  was  too  late,  when  he  was  driving  away.  That  night,  he  went  to  another  auc-  tion,  and  when  he  came  back  to  the  car  one  of  the  back  tires  was  flat.  He  opened  the  trunk  to  get  the  spare,  glad  that  he  had  gone  to  the  auction  alone,  glad  that  the  field  was  lit  up  and  peo-  ple  were  walking  around.  A  little  girl  about  his  son's  age  came  by  with  her  parents.  She  held  a  one-armed  doll  over  her  head  and  skipped  forward.  &quot;I  don't  feel  cheated.  Why  should  you  feel  cheated?  I  bought  the  whole  box  for  two  dollars  and  I  got  two  metal  sieves  out  of  it,&quot;  the  woman  said  to  the  " b"man.  He  had  on  a  baseball  cap  and  a  black  tank  top  and  cutoffs,  and  sandals  with  soles  that  curved  at  the  heel  and  toe  like  a  canoe.  He  stalked  ahead  of  the  woman,  box  under  one  arm,  and  grabbed  his  dancing  daughter  by  the  elbow.  &quot;Watch  my  dolly!&quot;  she  screamed,  as  he  pulled  her  along.  \xc2\xab'That  doll's  not  worth  five  cents,&quot;  the  man  said.  Tom  averted  his  eyes.  He  was  sweating  more  than  he  should,  going  through  the  easy  maneuvers  of  changing  a  tire.  There  was  even  a  breeze.  They  floated  the  tire  in  a  pan  of  water  at  the  gas  station  the  next  morn-  ing,  looking  for  the  puncture.  Nothing  was  embedded  in  the  tire;  whatever  had  made  the  hole  wasn't  there.  As  one  big  bubble  after  another  rose  to  the  surface,  Tom  felt  a  clutch  in  his  throat,  as  if  he  himself  might  be  drowning.  HE  couldthink  of  no  good  reason  to  tell  the  officer  at  the  police  barracks  why  Ed  Rickman  would  have  singled  him  out.  Maybe  Rickman  hed  wanted  to  build  a  house  on  that  partic-  ular  site.  The  policeman  made  a  fist  and  rested  his  mouth  against  it,  his  lips  in  the  gully  between  thumb  and  fin-  ger.  Until  Tom  said  that,  the  police-  man  had  seemed  concerned-even  a  little  interested.  Then  his  expression  changed.  Tom  hurried  to  say  that  of  course  he  didn't  believe  that  explana-  tion,  because  something  funny  was  go-  ing  on.  The  cop  shook  his  head.  Did  that  mean  no,  of  course  not,  or  no,  he  did  believe  it?  Tom  described  Rickman,  mention-  ing  the  discolored  tooth.  The  cop  wrote  this  information  down  on  a  small  white  pad.  He  drew  cross-  hatches  on  a  corner.  The  cop  did  not  seem  quite  as  certain  as  Tom  that  no  one  could  have  a  grudge  against  him  or  anyone  in  his  family.  He  asked  where  they  lived  in  New  York,  where  they  worked.  When  Tom  walked  out  into  the  sunlight,  he  felt  a  little  faint.  Of  course  he  had  understood,  even  before  the  cop  said  it,  that  there  was  nothing  the  police  could  do  at  this  point.  &quot;Frankly,&quot;  the  cop  had  said,  &quot;it's  not  likely  that  we're  going  to  be  able  to  keep  a  good  eye  out,  in  that  you're  on  a  dead-end  road.  Not  a  route,&quot;  the  cop  said.  &quot;Not  a  major  thoroughfare.&quot;  It  seemed  to  be  some  joke  the  cop  was  having  with  himself.  Driving  home,  Tom  realized  that  he  could  give  anyone  who  asked  a  detailed  description  of  the  cop.  He  had  studied  every  mark  on  the  cop's  face-  the  little  scar  (chicken  pox?)  over  one  eyebrow,  the  aquiline  nose  that  nar-  rowed  at  the  tip  almost  to  the  shape  of  a  tack.  He  did  not  intend  to  alarm  Jo  or  Byron  by  telling  them  where  he  had  been.  Byron  had  gone  fishing  again.  Jo  wanted  to  make  love  while  Byron  was  out.  Tom  knew  he  couldn't.  WEEK  passed.  Almost  two  weeks.  He  and  Jo  and  Byron  sat  in  lawn  chairs,  watching  the  lightning  bugs  blink.  Byron  said  he  had  his  eye  on  one  in  particular,  and  he  went  &quot;Beep-beep,  beep-beep&quot;  as  it  blinked.  They  ate  raw  peas  Jo  had  gathered  in  a  bowl.  He  and  Jo  had  a  glass  of  wine.  The  neighbors'  M.G.  passed  by.  This  summer,  the  neighbors  sometimes  tapped  the  horn  as  they  passed.  A  bird  swooped  low  across  the  lawn-per-  haps  a  female  cardinal.  It  was  a  sur-  prise  seeing  a  bird  in  the  twilight  like  that.  It  dove  into  the  grass,  more  like  a  seagull  than  a  cardinal.  It  rose  up,  fluttering,  with  something  in  its  beak.  Jo  put  her  glass  on  the  little  table,  smiled,  and  clapped  softly.  The  bird  Byron  found  dead  in  the  morning  was  a  grackle,  not  a  cardi-  nal.  It  was  lying  about  ten  feet  from  the  picture  window,  but  until  Tom  examined  the  bird's  body  carefully,  he  did  not  decide  that  probably  it  had  just  smacked  into  the  glass  by  acci-  dent.  At  Rusty's,  at  the  end  of  summer,  Tom  ran  into  the  cop  again.  They  were  both  carrying  white  paper  bags  with  straws  sticking  out  of  them.  Grease  was  starting  to  seep  through  the  bags.  Rickman  had  never  reap-  peared,  and  Tom  felt  some  embarrass-  ment  about  having  gone  to  see  the  cop.  He  tried  not  to  focus  on  the  tip  of  the  cop'snose.  &quot;Running  into  a  nut  like  that,  I  guess  it  makes  getting  back  to  the  city  look  good,&quot;  the  cop  said.  He's  thinking  summer  people,  Tom  decided.  &quot;'You  have  a  nice  year,  now,&quot;  the  cop  said.  &quot;Tell  your  wife  I  sure  do  envy  her  her  retirement.&quot;  &quot;Her  retirement?&quot;  Tom  said.  The  cop  looked  at  the  blacktop.  &quot;I  admit,  the  way  you  described  that  guy  I  thought  he  might  be  sent  by  some-  body  who  had  a  grudge  against  you  or  your  wife,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'Then  at  the  fire-  department  picnic  I  got  talking  to  your  neighbor-that  Mrs.  Hewett-  and  I  asked  her  if  she'd  seen  anybody  strange  poking  around  before  you  got  there.  Hadn't.  We  got  to  talking.  She  said  you  were  in  the  advertising  busi-  ness,  and  there  was  no  way  of  know-  ing  what  gripes  some  lunatic  might  have  with  that,  if  he  happened  to  know.  Maybe  you  walked  on  some-  body's  territory,  so  to  speak,  and  he  wanted  to  get  even.  And  your  wife  being  a  schoolteacher,  you  can't  realize  how  upset  some  parents  get  when  Johnny  doesn't  bring  home  theA's.  You  never  can  tell.  Mrs.  Hewett  said  she'd  been  a  schoolteacher  for  a  few  " b" months  herself,  before  shegot  mar-  ried,  and  she  never  regretted  the  day  she  quit.  Said  your  wife  was  real  happy  about  her  own  decision,  too.&quot;  The  cop  nodded  in  agreement  with  this.  Tom  tried  to  hide  his  surprise.  Somehow,  the  fact  that  he  didn't  know  that  Jo  had  ever  exchanged  a  word  with  a  neighbor,  Karen  Hewett,  pri-  vately  made  the  rest  of  the  story  believable.  They  hardly  knew  the  woman.  But  why  would  Jo  quit?  His  credibility  with  the  cop  must  have  been  good  after  all.  He  could  tell  from  the  way  the  cop  studied  his  face  that  he  realized  he  had  been  telling  Tom  something  he  didn't  know.  When  the  cop  left,  Tom  sat  on  the  hot  front  hood  of  his  car,  took  the  hamburgers  out  of  the  bag,  and  ate  them.  He  pulled  the  straw  out  of  the  big  container  of  Coke  and  took  off  the  plastic  top.  He  drank  from  the  cup,  and  when  the  Coke  was  gone  he  con-  tinued  to  sit  there,  sucking  ice.  Back  during  the  winter,  Jo  had  several  times  brought  up  the  idea  of  having  a  baby,  but  she  hadn't  mentioned  it  for  weeks  now.  He  wondered  if  she  had  decided  to  get  pregnant  in  spite  of  his  objections.  But  even  if  she  had,  why  would  she  quit  her  job  before  she  was  sure  there  was  a  reason  for  it?  A  teen-age  girl  with  short  hair  and  triangle-shaped  earrings  walked  by,  averting  her  eyes  as  if  she  knew  he'd  stare  after  her.  He  didn't;  only  the  earrings  that  caught  the  light  like  mirrors  interested  him.  In  a  convert,  ible  facing  him,  across  the  lot,  a  boy  and  girl  were  eating  their  sandwiches  in  the  front  seat  while  a  golden  re-  triever  in  the  back  moved  his  head  between  theirs,  looking  from  left  to  right  and  left  to  right  with  the  regu-  larity  of  a  dummy  talking  to  a  ventril-  oquist.  A  man  holding  his  toddler's  hand  walked  by  and  smiled.  Another  car  pulled  in,  with  Hall  and  Oates  going  on  the  radio.  The  driver  turned  off  the  ignition,  cutting  off  the  music,  and  got  out.  A  woman  got  out  the  other  side.  As  they  walked  past,  the  woman  said  to  the  man,  &quot;I  don't  see  why  we've  got  to  eat  exactly  at  nine,  twelve,  and  six.&quot;  &quot;Hey,  it's  twelve,  fifteen,&quot;  the  man  said.  Tom  dropped  his  cup  into  the  paper  bag,  along  with  his  hamburger  wrappers  and  the  nap-  kins  he  hadn't  used.  He  carried  the  soggy  bag  over  to  the  trash  can.  A  few  bees  lifted  slightly  higher  as  he  stuffed  his  trash  in.  Walking  back  to  the  car,  he  realized  that  he  had  absolutely  no  idea  what  to  do.  At  some  point  he  would  have  to  ask  Jo  what  was  going  on.  When  he  pulled  up,  Byron  was  sit-  ting  on  the  front  step,  cleaning  fish  over  a  newspaper.  Four  trout,  one  of  them  very  large.  Byron  had  had  a  good  day.  Tom  walked  through  the  house  but  couldn't  find  Jo.  He  held  his  breath  when  he  opened  the  closet  door;  it  was  unlikely  that  she  would  be  in  there,  naked,  two  days  in  a  row.  She  liked  to  play  tricks  on  him.  He  came  back  downstairs,  and  saw,  through  the  kitchen  window,  that  Jo was  sitting  outside.  A  woman  was  with  her.  He  walked  out.  Paper  plates  and  beer  bottles  were  on  the  grass  beside  their  chairs.  &quot;Hi,  honey,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Hi,&quot;  the  woman  said.  It  was  Karen  Hewett.  &quot;Hi,&quot;  he  said  to  both  of  them.  He  had  never  seen  Karen  Hewett  up  close.  She  was  tanner  than  he  realized.  The  biggest  difference,  though,  was  her  hair.  When  he  had  seen  her,  it  had  always  been  long  and  windblown,  but  today  she  had  it  pulled  back  in  a  clip.  &quot;Get  all  your  errands  done?&quot;  Jo  said.  It  couldn't  have  been  a  more  ordi-  nary  conversation.  It  couldn't  have  been  a  more  ordinary  summer  day.  THE  night  before  they  closed  up  the  house,  Tom  and  Jo  lay  stretched  out  on  the  bed.  Jo  was  finish-  ing  &quot;'Tom  Jones.&quot;  Tom  was  enjoying  the  cool  breeze  coming  through  the  window,  thinking  that  when  he  was  in  New  York  he  forgot  the  [REDACTED]  house;  at  least,  he  forgot  it  except  for  the  times  he  looked  up  from  the  street  he  was  on  and  saw  the  sky,  and  its  emptiness  made  him  remember  stars.  It  was  the  sky  he  loved  in  the  country-  the  sky  more  than  the  house.  If  he  hadn't  thought  it  would  seem  dra-  matic,  he  would  have  gotten  out  of  bed  now  and  stood  at  the  window  for  a  long  time.  Earlier  in  the  evening,  Jo  had  asked  why  he  was  so  moody.  He  had  told  her  that  he  didn't  feel  like  leaving.  &quot;Then  let's  stay,&quot;  she  said.  It  was  his  opening  to  say  something  about  her  job  in  the  fall.  He  had  hoped  she  would  say  something,  but  he  hesi-  tated,  and  she  had  only  put  her  arms  around  him  and  rubbed  her  cheek  against  his  chest.  All  summer,  she  had  seduced  him-sometimes  with  passion,  sometimes  so  subtly  he  didn't  realize  what  was  happening  until  she  puther  hand  up  under  his  T-shirt  or  kissed  him  on  the  lips.  Now  it  was  the  end  of  August.  Jo's  sister,  in  [REDACTED],  was  graduating  from  nursing  school  in  [REDACTED],  and  Jo  had  asked  Tom  to  stop  there  so  they  could  do  something  with  her  sis-  ter  to  celebrate.  Her  sister  lived  in  a  one-bedroom  apartment,  but  it  would  be  easy  to  find  a  motel.  The  following  day,  they  would  take  Byron  home  to  [REDACTED]  and  then  backtrack  to  New  York,  In  the  car  the  next  morning,  Tom  felt  Byron's  gaze  on  his  back  and  won-  " b"dered  if  he  had  overheard  their  love-  making  the  night  before.  It  was  very  hot  by  noontime.  There  was  so  much  haze  on  the  mountains  that  their  peaks  were  invisible.  The  mountains  gradu-  ally  sloped  until  suddenly,  before  Tom  realized  it,  they  were  driving  on  flat  highway.  Late  that  afternoon,  they  found  a  motel.  He  and  Byron  swam  in  the  pool,  and  Jo,  although  she  was  just  about  to  see  her,  talked  to  her  sister  for  half  an  hour  on  the  phone.  By  the  time  Jo's  sister  turned  up  at  the  motel,  Tom  had  shaved  and  showered.  Byron  was  watching  televi-  sion.  He  wanted  to  stay  in  the  room  and  watch  the  movie,  instead  of  hav-  ing  dinner  with  them.  He  said  he  wasn't  hungry.  Tom  insisted  that  he  come  and  eat  dinner.  &quot;I  can  get  some-  thing  out  of  the  machine,&quot;  Byron  said.  &quot;You're  not  going  to  eat  potato  chips  for  dinner,&quot;  Tom  said.  &quot;Get  off  the  bed-come  on.&quot;  Byron  gave  Tom  a  look  that  was  quite  similar  to  the  look  an  outlaw  in  the  movie  was  giving  the  sheriff  who  had  just  kicked  his  gun  out  of  reach.  &quot;You  didn't  stay  glued  to  the  set  in  [REDACTED]  all  summer  and  miss  those  glorious  days,  did  you?&quot;  Jo's  sister  said.  &quot;I  fished,&quot;  Byron  said.  &quot;He  caught  four  trout  one  day,&quot;  Tom  said,  spreading  his  arms  and  looking  from  the  palm  of  one  hand  to  the  palm  of  the  other.  They  all  had  dinner  together  in  the  motel  restaurant,  and  later,  while  they  drank  their  coffee,  Byron  dropped  quarters  into  the  machine  in  the  corri-  dor,  playing  game  after  game  of  Space  Invaders.  Jo  and  her  sister  went  into  the  bar  next  to  the  restaurant  for  a  nightcap.  Tom  let  them  go  alone,  figuring  that  they  probably  wanted  some  private  time  together.  Byron  followed  him  up  to  the  room  and  turned  on  the  televi-  sion.  An  hour  later,  Jo  and  her  sister  were  still  in  the  bar.  Tom  sat  on  the     balcony.  Long  before  his  usual  bed-  time,  Byron  turned  off  the  television.  &quot;Good  night,&quot;  Tom  called  into  the  room,  hoping  Byron  would  call  him  in.  &quot;Night,&quot;  Byron  said.  Tom  sat  in  silence  for  a  minute.  He  was  out  of  cigarettes  and  felt  like  a  beer.  He  went  into  the  room.  Byron  was  lying  in  his  sleeping  bag,  un-  zipped,  on  top  of  one  of  the  beds.  &quot;I'm  going  to  drive  down  to  that  7-  Eleven,&quot;  Tom  said.  &quot;Want  me  to  bring  you  anything?&quot;  &quot;No,  thanks,&quot;  Byron  said.  &quot;Want  to  come  along?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  Byron  said.  He  picked  up  the  keys  to  the  car  and  the  room  key  and  went  out.  He  wasn't  sure  whether  Byron  was  still  sulking  because  he  had  made  him  go  to  dinner  or  whether  he  didn't  want  to  go  back  to  his  mother's.  Perhaps  he  was  just  tired.  Tom  bought  two  Heinekens  and  a  pack  of  Kools.  The  cashier  was  obvi-  ously  stoned;  he  had  bloodshot  eyes  and  stuffed  a  wad  of  napkins  into  the  bag  before  he  pushed  it  across  the  counter  to  Tom.  Back  at  the  motel,  he  opened  the  door  quietly.  Byron  didn't  move.  Tom  putout  one  of  the  two  lights  Byron  " b"had  left  on  and  slid  open  the  glass  door  to  the  balcony.  T  wo  people  kissed  on  the  pathway  outside,  passing  the  pool  on  the  way  to  their  room.  Peo-  ple  were  talking  in  the  room  below  -muted,  but  it  sounded  like  an  argument.  The  lights  were  suddenly  turned  off  at  the  pool.  Tom  pushed  his  heels  against  the  railing  and  tipped  his  chair  back.  He  could  hear  the  cars  on  the  highway.  He  felt  sad  about  something,  and  realized  that  he  felt  quite  alone.  He  finished  a  beer  and  lit  a  ciga-  rette.  Byron  hadn't  been  very  communicative.  Of  course,  he  couldn't  ex-  pect  a  ten-year-old  boy  to  throw  his  arms  around  him  the  way  he  had  when  he  was  a  baby.  And  Jo-in  spite  of  her  ar-  dor,  his  memory  of  her,  all  summer,  was  of  her  sitting  with  her  nose  in  some  eighteenth-century  novel.  He  thought  about  all  the  things  they  had  done  in  July  and  August,  trying  to  convince  himself  that  they  had  done  a  lot  and  had  fun.  Dancing  a  couple  of  times,  auctions,  the  day  on  the  bor-  rowed  raft,  four-no,  five-movies,  fishing  with  Byron,  badminton,  the  fireworks  and  the  sparerib  dinner  out-  side  the  Town  Hall  on  the  Fourth.  Maybe  what  his  ex-wife  always  said  was  true:  he  didn't  connect  with  peo-  ple.  Jo  never  said  such  a  thing,  though.  And  Byron  chose  to  spend  the  summer  with  them.  He  drank  the  other  beer  and  felt  its  effect.  It  had  been  a  long  drive.  Byron  probably  didn't  want  to  go  back  to  [REDACTED].  He  himself  wasn't  too  eager  to  begin  his  new  job.  He  sud-  denly  remembered  his  secretary,  when  he  confided  in  her  that  he'd  gotten  the  big  offer-her  surprise,  the  way  she  hid  her  thumbs-up  behind  the  palm  of  her  other  hand,  in  a  mock  gesture  of  secrecy.  &quot;Where  are  you  going  to  go  from  there?&quot;  she  had  said.  He'd  miss  her.  She  was  funny  and  pretty  and  enthusiastic-no  slouch  herself.  He'd  miss  laughing  with  her,  miss  being  flattered  because  she  thought  that  he  was  such  a  competent  character. He  missed  Jo.  It  wasn't  because  she  was  off  at  the  bar.  If  she  came  back  this  instant,  something  would  still  be  missing.  He  couldn't  imagine  caring  for  anyone  more  thanhe  cared  for  her,  but  he  wasn't  sure  that  he  was  still  in  love  with  her.  He  was  fiddling,  there  in  the  dark.  He  had  reached  into  the  paper  bag  and  begun  to  wrinkle  up  little  bits  of  napkin,  rolling  the  paper  between  thumb  and  finger  so  that  it  formed  tiny  balls.  When  he  had  a  palmful,  he  got  up  and  tossed  them  over  the  railing.  When  he  sat  down  again,  he  closed  his  eyes  and  began  what  would  be  months  of  remember-  ing  [REDACTED]:  the  garden,  the  neon  green  of  new  peas,  the  lumpy  lawn,  the  pine  trees  and  the  smell  of  them  at  night-and  then  suddenly  Rickman  was  there,  rumpled  and  strange,  but  his  presence  was  only  slightly  startling.  He  was  just  a  man  who'd  dropped  in  on  a  summer  day.  &quot;You'd  be  crazy  not  to  be  happy  here,&quot;  Rickman  was  say-  ing.  All  that  was  quite  believable  now  -the  way,  when  seen  in  the  odd  con-  text  of  a  home  movie,  even  the  craziest  relative  can  suddenly  look  amiable.  He  wondered  if  Jo  was  pregnant. Could  that  be  what  she  and  her  sister  were  talking  about  all  this  time  in  the  bar?  For  a  second,  he  wanted  them  all  to  be  transformed  into  characters  in  one  of  those  novels  she  had  read  all  summer.  That  way,  the  uncertainty  would  end.  Henry  Fielding  would  simply  step  in  and  predict  the  future.  The  author  could  tell  him  what  it  would  be  like,  what  would  happen,  if  he  had  to  try,  another  time,  to  love  somebody.  The  woman  who  had  been  arguing  with  the  man  was  quiet.  Crickets  chirped,  and  a  television  hummed  faintly.  Below  him,  near  the  pool,  a  man  who  worked  at  the  motel  had  rolled  a  table  onto  its  side.  He  whistled  while  he  made  an  adjustment  to  the  white  metal  pole  that  would  hold  an  umbrella  the  next  day."