 b"THE  last  cigarette  smokers  in  [REDACTED]  were  located  in  a  box  canyon  south  of  Donner  Pass  in  the  High  Sierra  by  two  federal  tobacco  agents  in  a  helicopter  who  spotted  the  little  smoke  puffs  just  before  noon.  One  of  them,  the  dis-  trict  chief,  called  in  the  ground  team  by  air-to-ground  radio.  Six  men  in  camouflage  outfits,  members  of  a  crack  anti-smoking  joggers  unit,  moved  quickly  across  the  rugged  terrain,  sur-  rounded  the  bunch  in  their  hideout,  subdued  them  with  tear  gas,  and  made  them  lie  face  down  on  the  gravel  in  the  hot  August  sun.  There  were  three  females  and  two  males,  all  in  their  mid-forties.  They  had  been  on  the  run  since  the  adoption  of  the  Twenty-  eighth  Amendment.  The  chief,  a  trim,  muscular  man  in  neatly  pressed  khakis  who  car-  ried  a  riding  crop,  paced  back  and  forth  along  the  line  of  motionless  shoe  soles.  &quot;What  are  you  people  using  for  brains?  Can't  you  read?&quot;  he  snapped,  flicking  the  crop  at  their  ankles.  He  bent  down  and  snatched  up  an  empty  pack  of  Marlboros  and  thrust  it  in  the  face  of  a  pale,  sweaty  man  whose  breath  came  in  short,  terrified  gasps.  &quot;Look  at  this!  This  warning  has  been  there  for  decades!  Want  me  to  read  it  to  you?  Want  me  to  give  you  the  statistics?  What  does  it  take  to  make  you  understand?  Look  at  me!  Speak  up!  I  can't  hear  you!&quot;  In  fact,  the  smokers  had  been  very  subdued  long  before  the  acrid  tear-gas  fumes  drifted  into  their  hideout,  a  nar-  row  cave  near  the  canyon  mouth.  They  knew  the  end  was  near.  Days  before,  they  had  lost  radio  contact  with  the  only  other  band  of  smokers  they  knew  of:  five  writers  holed  up  in  an  [REDACTED]  apartment.  It  had  been  three  weeks  since  the  Donner  group's  last  supply  drop  from  the  air,  forty  pounds  of  barbecued  ribs,  ten  Picnic  Tubs  of  Jimbo  deep-fried  chicken,  and  six  cartons  of  smokes,  all  mentho-  lated.  Agents  who  searched  the  cave  found  exactly  two  cigarettes.  There  was  not  a  single  shred  of  tobacco  found  in  any  of  the  thousands  of  dis-  carded  butts.  The  two  cigarettes  were  hidden  in  the  lining  of  a  sleeping  bag,  and  the  general  disorder  in  the  cave-  clothing  and  personal  effects  strewn  from  hell  to  breakfast-indicated  that  some  smokers  had  searched  frantically  for  a  smoke  that  very  morning.  Black-  ened  remnants  of  what  appeared  to  be  cabbage  leaves  lay  in  the  smoldering  campfire.  &quot;Move  'em  out  of  here!&quot;  the  chief  said.  &quot;'They  disgust  me.&quot;  AMONG  the  personal  effects  were  four  empty  packs,  carefully  slit  open,  the  blank  insides  covered  with  handwriting.  An  agent  picked  them  up  and  put  them  in  a  plastic  bag,  for  evidence.  They  read:  Drar  Linpsay  &amp;  Mart-This  is  to  let  y.  know  I'm  OK  &amp;  w.  friends  tho  how  this  w.  reach  you  I  dont  know.  5  of  us  are  in  the  mts  (dont  know  where).  I  never  thot  it  wld  come  to  this.  All  those  yrs  as  ashtrays  vanishd  fr  parties  &amp;  old  pals  made  sarc  remarks  &amp;  FAA  crackd  down  &amp;  smoke  sect.  became  closet,  I  thot  if  I  just  was  discreet  &amp;  smokd  in  prv  &amp;  took  mints  I'd  get  by  but  then  yr  dad  quit  &amp;  I  had  to  go  undergrnd.  Bsmnt,  gar.,  wet  twis,  A/C,  etc.  Felt  guilty  but  contd,  couldnt  stop.  Or  didnt.  Too  late  for  that  now.  Gotta  go  on  midnt  watch.  More  soon.  Love,  Mother.  My  Drar  CrirprEn-Down  to  1  cart.  PIMIs.  Not  my  fav.  Down  to  1  cg/day.  After  supper.  Hate  to  say  it  but  it  tastes  fant.  So  rich,  so  mild.  I  know  you  never  approvd.  Sorry.  In  50s  it  was  diffrnt,  we  all  smokd.  Felt  like  movies.  So  gracefl,  tak'g  cg  from  pk,  the  mtch,  the  lite,  one  smooth  move.  Food,  sex,  then  smoke.  Lng  drags.  Lrnd  Fr.  exh.  Then  sudd.  it  was  82  and  signs  apprd  (Thanx  for  Not  S).  In  my  home!  Kids  naggng  like  fish-wives  &amp;  yr  dad  sudd.  went  out  for  track.  I  felt  embushed.  Bob  Dylan  smokd,  Carson,  Beatles.  I  mean WE'RE  NOT  CRIMINALS.  Sorry.  Too  late  now.  More  soon.  Love,  Mother.  Drar  Kips-This  may  be  last  letter,  theyre  closing  in.  Planes  o'head  every  day  now.  Dogs  in  dist.  Men  w.  ldspkrs.  Flares.  [REDACTED]  chapt  got  busted  last  pm.  Was  w.  them  on  radio  when  feds  came.  Reminded  me  of  when  yr  dad  turnd  me  in.  After  sup-  per.  Knew  he  was  nut  but  didnt  know  he  was  creep.  Cops  surr.  our  hse,  I  snk  away  thru  bushes.  No  time  to  say  g-b  to  y.  Sorry.  W1d  you  believe  I  quit  twice  yrs  ago,  once  fr  8  mo.  I'm  not  a  terrible  wom.  y'know.  Sorry.  Know  this  is  hard  on  y.  Me  too.  We're  down  to  2  pks  &amp;  everybody's  tense.  Got  to  go  chk  perimtr.  Goodbye.  Love,  Mother.  Dear  L  &amp;  M-This  is  it.  They  saw  us.  I  have  one  left  and  am  smokng  it  now.  Gd  it  tastes  gd.  My  last  cg.  Then  its  all  over.  I'm  OK.  I'm  ready.  Its  a  better  thng  I  do  now  than  I  hy  ever  done.  I  love  you  both.  .  ..  HE  five  smokers  were  handcuffed  and  transported  to  a  federal  de-  tention  camp  in  [REDACTED],  where  they  were  held  in  pup  tents  for  months.  They  were  charged  with  conspiracy  to  obtain,  and  willful  possession  of,  to-  bacco,  and  were  convicted  in  minutes,  and  were  sentenced  to  write  20,000  words  apiece  on  the  topic  &quot;Personal  Integrity&quot;  by  a  judge  who  had  quit  cigarettes  when  the  price  went  to  35  cents  and  he  could  not  justify  the  ex-  pense.  The  author  of  the  letters  was  soon  reunited  with  her  children,  and  one  night,  while  crossing  a  busy  intersec-  tion  near  their  home  in  [REDACTED],  she  saved  them  from  sure  death  by  pulling  them  back  from  the  path  of  a  speeding  car.  Her  husband,  who  had  just  been  telling  her  she  could  stand  to  lose  some  weight,  was  killed  instantly,  however."