 b"THE  [REDACTED]  Victorian  Wig-  more  Hall,  where  the  cheerful  cherubs  had  been  not'  even  so  much  as  chippedby  the  Blitz  and  where  the  acoustics  were  better  than  the  ones  bought  by  any  number  of  dollars  for  Avery  Fisher  Hall,  in  New  York  City,  was  less  packed  than  usual  for  the  great  Madame  Johanna  Alba's  master  class.  Her  famed  role  for  fifty  years  had  been  Cherubino  in  Mozart's  &quot;The  Marriage  of  Figaro.&quot;  At  seven-  ty-&quot;too  late,&quot;  many  people  said-she  surrendered  her  sprightly  young-boy  part  and  became  famous  as  the  same  opera's  serene  Countess.  Retaining  dignity,  she  then  resisted  even  in  her  prized  master  class  any  urge  to  sing  her  great  role  of  old.  The  two  dozen  semifinalists,  chosen  from  over  two  hundred  applicants,  sat  on  school  chairs  onstage.  A  few  musi-  cologists  were  allowed  into  the  audito-  rium,  a  few  other  singers.  Madame  Alba  was  laced  into  her  celebrated  cos-  tume  for  Cherubino,  even  though  she  was  to  singthe  Countess  at  chosen  moments.  Close-fitting  white  waist,  coat,  pink  breeches,  pale-blue  tights  not  supposed  to  bulge,  though  they  reminded  several  blackhearts  in  the  audience  of  the  legs  of  a  hippopotamus  in  pale-blue  surgical  stockings.  The  lacing  of  the  waistcoat  had  been  no  mean  feat.  At  last,  Madame  Alba,  who  had  the  musicianship  to  value  her  breath  control  more  than  her  figure,  commanded  threeholes  of  her  waist-  coat  to  be  eased.  &quot;We  could  retain  the  bosom,&quot;  her  dresser  of  forty  years  said  loyally.  She  had  travelled  with  Madame  from  opera  house  to  opera  house,  like  the  trunk  holding  Madame's  famous  pale-  blue  cloak  for  &quot;Tosca.&quot;  Though  suited  neither  to  the  role  nor  to  the  ominous  plot,  the  forget-me-not  cloak  remained.  Everyone  objected.  Never-  theless,  Madame  was  to  be  obeyed.  A  resident  director  at  Covent  Garden  had  once  contrived  to  put  Madame  into  black  for  &quot;Tosca,&quot;  instead  of  her  beloved  pale  blue.  He  still  bore  on  his  forehead  the  scar  of  the  marble  mantelpiece  of  his  club's  main  fire-  place,  which  she  had  upheaved  and  thrown  at  him  for  vilifying  her  cloak  at  the  after-opera  party.  Her  Goli-  ath  strength  was  in  a  spirit  equalled  only  by  grand  opera  itself.  &quot;Were  we  to  retain  the  trimness  of  the  bosom,&quot;  said  Madame  sternly  to  her  dresser  at  the  Cherubino  fit-  ting,  &quot;we  should  only  emphasize  the natural  musical  fullness  of  the  waist.&quot;  So  the  enlarged  Cherubino  sat  on  the  thronelike  armchair,  itself  uphol-  stered  plumply  in  a  matching  pink-  and-white  design  that  seemed  to  add  further  limbs  to  the  diva's  own.  Indi-  cations  ofplot  by  way  of  odd  bits  of  furniture  were  carried  in.  A  gold  clock,  a  window  frame  empty  of  glass,  a  high-backed  sofa  meant  not  for  sit-  ting  but  only  for  the  blithe  fancies  of  rococo  conspiracy.  One  of  the  few  lay  people  in  the  audience  of  Alba  fanat-  ics,  a  Gregorian-chant  expert  named  Daphne,  quite  unfamiliar  with  &quot;The  Marriage  of  Figaro,&quot;  asked  questions  of  her  friend  Gavin,  a  man  knowl-  edgeable  in  these  things.  She  looked  respectfully  at  the  bareness  of  the  fur-  nished  stage,  at  the  meagreness  of  the  props.  &quot;It's  not  modern,  is  it?  It's  not  minimal?&quot;  &quot;No.  Nothing  simplistic  here.  The  impoverishment  is  dramatic,  not  optic.  It  is  also,  of  course,  historically  later-  al.  The  Shakespearean  mockery  by  Mozart,  for  instance,  in  the  way  Cherubino  is  dressed  as  a  boy.&quot;  &quot;But  Madame  Alba's  going  to  sing  the  Countess,  it  says  in  the  program.  The  students  are  the  Cherubinos,  singing  bits  of  him  oneby  one.  And  also,  the  Countess  is  dressed  as  a  puppy-fat  girl.&quot;  &quot;This  is  in  memory  of  her  great  days  as  Cherubino.  A  page  boy.&quot;  &quot;He  must  have  been  horribly  teased  at  school,&quot;  said  Daphne,  who  knew  more  about  present-day  upper-class  cruelty  than  about  eighteenth-century  aesthetic  conventions,  just  as  she  felt  more  about  Mozart's  death  in  a  pau-  per's  grave  than  about  the  honor  given  to  divas.  &quot;On  the  whole,  I'm  on  the  side  of  paupers,  not  of  prima  donnas,&quot;  she  said  to  her  program.  &quot;Where  does  it  saythat?&quot;  said  Gavin,  leaning  over  her.  &quot;I  did.&quot;  The  master  class  began.  Tape  re-  corders  were  started.  Daphne  whis-  pered,  &quot;Those  must  be  elastic  tights.  I  wonder  where  she  gets  them.&quot;  Her  overriding  interest  was  in  operatic  memorabilia,  in  the  sense  of  clothes.  Even  more  than  in  Gregorian  manu-  scripts.  &quot;I  should  think  that  mews  shop  off  the  Charing  Cross  Road  would  have  an  idea.&quot;  Gavin  otherwise  ignored  her  heavily.  His  interest  was  in  opera  from  Gluck  up  to,  but  not  including,  Bel-  lini.  &quot;My  passion  is  for  'Figaro,'  per  se,&quot;  he  murmured  to  her  severely,  " b"somehow  turning  the  sentence  into  a  music  lover's  glance  backward  at  a  hummer  in  the  row  behind.  Daphne  was  crushed  as  the  harpsichord  began.  She  looked  up  at  one  of  the  cherubs  and  pondered  elastic  tights.  Madame  Alba  did  not  speak.  This  would  have  been  a  misuse  of  her  voice.  She  whispered  to  the  audience  that  she  was  going  to  sing  the  Countess  an  octave  lower  &quot;to  save  my  instrument.&quot;  The  audience  rustled  in  passionate  comprehension.  The  padded,  page-boy  Countess  sang  &quot;Porgi  amor&quot;  at  a  school  desk  decked  out  as  the  Count-  ess's  dressing  table,  looking  at  herself  in  an  ornate  hand  mirror  empty  of  glass.  Confusion  grew.  The  chosen  students  on  their  uncomfortable  seats  controlled  their  breathing,  one  or  an-  other  dashing  in  and  out  of  hiding  and  through  the  Countess's  window  at  moments  sprung  on  them  by  the  prompter  acting  as  stage  director,  and  prayed  that  Madame  would  lead  them  somewhere  in  the  speeded  chronology  fixed  upon.  Again  and  again,  the  same  process  was  gone  through.  Semifinalist  by  semifinalist.  &quot;Where  are  we?&quot;  whispered  Daph-  ne.  &quot;Round  about  the  music  master,  I  should  say.&quot;  Scant  evidence  of  men  onstage,  but  Gavin  had  confidence.  Alba's  voice,  distinctly  hers  even  at  an  octave  lower,  again  and  again  led  beckoned  singers  to  stand  and  to  sing,  in  spite  of  the  contracted  plot,  &quot;Voi  che  sapete.&quot;&quot;  Notes  were  taken  by  judges  in  the  audience.  Now  and  again,  the  director  continued  to  order  that  the  contestants  scuttle  behind  the  sofa  or  through  the  window  (stage-  craft).  Madame  went  on  singing  an  octave  lower.  Not  out  of  prima-donna  exhibitionism  but  out  of  a  wish  not  to  be  drawn  into  contest.  The  last  entrant,  an  immensely  fat  girl  of  clear-eyed  beauty,  eventually  got  up  at  Madame's  beckoning.  Again  Madame  sang  the  Countess  in  her  bar-  itone  whisper.  Little  was  left  of  her  greatness  except  in  her  phrasing.  &quot;It  would  be  more  difficult  at  that  pitch,&quot;  whispered  Gavin,  making  a  note  of  no  consequence  on  his  program.  &quot;More  difficult  altogether,&quot;  whis-  pered  Daphne,  her  mind  suppressing  elastic  tights.  &quot;Control.&quot;  &quot;All  musicianship  is  control.  Or,  rather,  liberation  controlled.&quot;  &quot;I  wonder  why  we  go  to  concerts  together.&quot;  She  wished  her  words  back,  and  thought  them  again,  as  though  using  invisible  ink  to  rid  her  mind  of  them.  &quot;Liberation  controlled,&quot;  repeated  Gavin,  ignoring  her  trouble  and  gripped  only  by  his  own  last  words,  touching  her  spinster  hand  to  take  the  chill  out  of  his  edict.  He  had  no  idea  that  she  was  blaming  herself.  He  was  not  one  to  impute  impulse.  The  big  girl  began  &quot;Voi  che  sa-  pete.&quot;  Solemnity  gripped  the  audience.  This  was  the  voice  of  the  evening,  a  voice  that  would  never  have  a  chance,  because  of  the  girl's  size.  The  exquisite  melody  took  flight.  The  ris-  ing  cadences  seemed  to  be  drawn  up  by  something  more  than  the  flowing  of  notes.  No  passion  that  music  cannot  raise  and  quell,  thought  Daphne  in  counterpoint.  Dryden.  Gavin  looked  round  at  her;  a  fidgety  man,  but  she  was  not  to  be  interrupted  in  her  con-  centration.  Madame  Alba  rose  from  her  judge's  seat  and  softly  joined  the  melody,  rec-  ognizing  greatness.  First  she  sang  an  octave  lower,  then  in  unison.  A  marvel  was  occurring.  The  uncastable  girl  finished  and  went  back  to  her  seat.  Madame  stayed  standing,  without  realizing  it.  No  one  in  the  audience  knew  what  to  do.  Shout  bravo  at  the  brilliant  bulk?  Throw  roses?  Where  from?  The  harpsichordist  had  his  head  on  the  keyboard.  He  had  been  told  to  keep  Madame's  voice  down  an  octave,  and  he  had  failed.  Then  he  got  up  and  bowed  to  the  girl's  success,  raising  his  hands.  Madame  Alba  was  still  standing,  hands  clasped  together  like  a  singer's  at  practice,  tears  stream-  ing  down  her  face.  Someone  in  the  audience  shouted,  clapping,  &quot;Your  ca-  reer  is  at  the  BBC.  Go  to  the  BBC,&quot;  and  the  applause  broke  out.  Madame  Alba  said,  &quot;Yes,  the  BBC,&quot;  her  own  bulk  looking  fragile  as  she  went  up  to  the  girl  and  shook  both  of  her  hands.  &quot;Very  good  rendering,&quot;  said  Gavin.  "