 b"WHEN  the  Thunderbirds  arrived  at  Camp  Grayfeather,  Ellen,  Chen-cheu,  and  I  were  waiting  for  them,  lounging  on  the  splintery  steps  of  the  recreation  hall.  Behind  us,  abig  fly  with  a  weary  August  note  to  its  buzz  banged  against  the  screen  door.  In  front  of  us,  under  a  level  evening  sun,  the  straw-colored  [REDACTED]  countryside-pointedly  re-  ferred  toas  &quot;Wyeth  Territory&quot;  in  the  camp  catalogue-rolled  off  from  our  own  wooded  hillside  toward  the  bluish  haze  that  was  [REDACTED].  It  was  a  Tuesday  and  just  after  dinner,  the  tranquil  period  in  a  camp  day,  when  the  woods  are  filled  with  the  soft  clanging  of  bells  announcing  evening  activities  and  the  air  still  holds  a  whiff  of  tuna  casserole.  After  dinner  was  supposed  to  be  journal-writing  time  for  the  three  dozen  or  so  fourteen,  year-olds  who  made  up  the  rank  and  file  at  Grayfeather,  but  Chen-cheu,  Ellen,  and  I  had  slipped  out  of  our  tent  in  order  to  witness  the  coming  of  the  Thunderbirds.  It  was  an  event  we  were  awaiting  with  the  same  kind  of     horrified  delight  as  that  with  which  Biblical  adolescents,  as  deep  in  glan-  dular  boredom  as  we  ourselves  were,  must  have  greeteda  plague  of  locusts.  The  Thunderbirds  were  ablack  teen-  age  gang,  one  of  many  that  battled  in  the  close  brick  streets  of  Wilmington,  and,  through  some  obscure  adult  ar-  rangement,  they  were  coming  to  spend  a  week  with  us  at  camp.  &quot;Do  you  think  they'll  have  knives,  Sarah?&quot;  Chen-cheu  asked  me,  rubbing  an  array  of  chigger  bites  on  her  ankle.  Chen-cheu  was  the  camp  beauty,  a  Chinese-American  girl  from  Oberlin,  [REDACTED],  whose  solid-cheeked,  suntanned  face  had  an  almost  frightening  exotic  loveliness  above  her  muscular  swim-  mer's  shoulders.  She  had,  however,  a  calm,  practical  personality  that  belied  her  thrilling  looks,  and  she  talked  with  a  flat  Midwestern  accent,  as  if  she'd  been  brought  up  in  a  soddy.  &quot;Nah,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Gangs  use  guns  these  days.&quot;  In  fact,  my  only  knowledge  of  the  habitsof  gangs  came  from  seeing  the  movie  &quot;West  Side  Story,&quot;  but,  like  the otherblack  kids  at  Grayfeather,  most  of  us  the  overprotected  or  dreadfully  spoiled  products  of  comfortable  subur-  ban  childhoods,  I  had  been  affecting  an  intimate  knowledge  of  street  life  ever  since  I'd  heard  about  the  Thun-  derbirds.  &quot;Maybe  we'll  end  up  massacred,&quot;  said  Ellen,  in  a  hopeful  voice,  unwrap-  ping  a  stick  of  gum.  Ellen  was  always  chewing  gum,  though  it  was  against  camp  rules;  she  had  come  to  Grayfeather  with  about  a  thousand  packages  of  Wrigley's  hid-  den  in  her  trunk,  and  even,  to  the  derision  of  her  bunkmates,  made  little  chains  of  the  wrappers.  She  chewed  so  much  that  her  father,  a  Reform  rabbi  in  [REDACTED],  once  made  her  walk  around  a  shopping  mall  with  a  wad  of  gum  stuck  to  her  forehead.  She  and  Chen-cheu  and  I  had  been  close  friends  all  summer-a  brisk  female  triumvirate  who  liked  to  think  of  our-  selves  as  Maid  Marians,  both  lawless  and  seductive.  (In  reality,  it  was  only  Chen-cheu  who  provided  the  physical  charms,  since  Ellen  and  I  were  peaky,  bookworm  types.)  The  three  of  us  made  a  point  of  being  on  the  spot  whenever  anything  interesting  or  scandalous  happened  at  the  camp,  and  the  arrival  of  the  Thunderbirds  was  certainly  the  most  riveting  event  of  the  summer.  They  were  not  the  first  visitors  we'd  had  at  Grayfeather:  already  we'd  played  host  to  a  morose  quartet  of  Peruvian  flute  players  and  a  troop  of  impossibly  pink-cheeked  Icelandic  scouts.  The  Thunderbirds  repre-  sented,  however,  the  most  ambitious  attempt  to  incarnate  the  camp  motto,  which  was  &quot;Adventures  in  Under-  standing.&quot;  As  Ellen  once  remarked,  instead  of  being  a  tennis  camp  or  a  weight-loss  camp,  Grayfeather  was  an  integration  camp.  The  campers-most  of  whose  fathers  were  professors,  like  Chen-cheu's,  or  clergymen,  like  mine  -had  been  carefully  selected  to  form  a  motley  collection  of  colors  and  reli-  gions,  so  that  our  massed  assemblies  at  meals,  chapel,  and  campfires  looked  like  illustrations  for  UNICEF  posters.  It  was  at  chapel  the  previous  Sun-  day  that  Ned  Woolworth,  the  camp  di-  rector,  had  announced  the  coming  of  the  Thunderbirds.  &quot;During  the  next  week,  you'll  be  more  than  just  kids  relating  to  kids,&quot;  he  said,  strolling  up  and  down  between  the  rows  of  split-  log  benches,  scanning  our  dubious  fourteen-year-old  faces  with  his  be-  nign,  abstracted  gaze,  his  big,  gnarled  knees  (his  nickname  was  Monster  " b"working  below  his  khaki  shorts.  Wool-  worth  was  tall  and  looked  like  Teddy  Roo-  sevelt,  and  had  an  as-  tonishing  talent  for  not  knowing  things.  He  ig-  nored  the  generally  un-  enthusiastic  silence,  as  his  campers  coldly  pon-  dered  the  ramifications  of  doubling  up  in  tents  with  their  comrades-to-  be,  and  passed  over  the  muttered  lamentations  of  the  camp  misfit,  a  4e696765726961n  diplomat's  son  named  Femi.  He  read  us  a  few  lines  from  &quot;'The  Prophet,&quot;  and  then  told  us  we  would  be  like  ambassadors,  bridging  a  gap  that  so-  ciety  had  created.  It  appeared  that  the  staff  had  already  written  and  gotten  permission  from  all  of  our  parents.  HE  arrival  of  the  Thunderbirds  at  Grayfeather  was  sig-  nalled  by  a  grinding  of  gears  and  a  confused  yelling  from  far  down  the  dirt  road  that  led  through  six  miles  of  woods  to  the  camp.  As  Ellen,  Chen-  cheu,  and  I  poked  each  other  in  excite,  ment,  a  battered  yellow  school  bus,  covered  with  a  tangle  of  long-stemmed  graffiti,  rattled  into  the  clearing  and  swerved  into  the  dusty  parking  lot  beside  the  rec  hall.  The  bus  ground  its  gears  once  more,  shuddered,  and  seemed  to  expire.  The  doors  flew  open  and  the  Thunderbirds  poured  down  the  steps  into  the  evening  sunlight.  &quot;They're  so  small  Ellen  whis-  pered  to  me.  There  were  ten  boys  and  seven  girls  (the  girls  forming,  as  we  later  found  out,  a  sort  of  women's  auxiliary  of  the  Thunderbirds)-brown-skinned  teen-  agers  with  mature  faces  and  bodies  and  stunted,  childish  legs  that  gave  the  boys,  with  their  well-developed  shoul-  ders  and  short  thighs,  the  look  of  ban-  tam  cocks.  One  of  the  boys  came  up  to  Chen-  cheu,  Ellen,  and  me  and  stood  rocking  on  his  heels.  &quot;Hello,  ladies,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;My  name  is  Marvin  Jones.&quot;  He  wore  tight  black  pants  and  a  green  T-shirt  that  was  printed  with  the  words  &quot;KING  FUNK,&quot;  and  he  had an  astonishing  [REDACTED]  pompadour  that  bobbed  like  a  cresting  wave  over  his  mobile,  trickster's  face.  Above  his  left  eye,  he  had  dyed  a  platinum  streak  in  his  hair,  and  down  one  brown  cheek  ran  a  deep  scar.  Looking  at  him,  I  had  the  feeling  that  something  unbe-  lievable  was  happening  in  front  of  me.  &quot;Hello,&quot;  said  Chen-cheu,  Ellen,  and  I  in  a  faint  chorus.  In  a  minute,  Ned  Woolworth  and  the  rest  of  the  staff  were  there  or-  ganizing  things.  The  sleepy  little  camp  clearing,  with  its  square  of  sun-  bleached  turf  and  its  cluster  of  low,  green-painted  buildings,  seemed  sud-  denly  frantic  and  overcrowded.  Radios  weren't  allowed  at  Grayfeather,  but  one  of  the  Thunderbirds  had  brought  a  big  portable  receiver  that  filled  the  air  with  a  Motown  beat.  Martha  and  the  Vandellas  were  singing,  their  shrill,  sweet  voices  crackling  with  static,  and  the  Thunderbirds  were  bouncing  to  the  beat  while  they  eyed  the  camp,  shoved  each  other,  picked  up  their  abbreviated  luggage,  and  shouted  back  and  forth.  Meanwhile,  the  rest  of  the  Grayfeather  campers  had  slipped  unobtrusively,  even  furtively,  out  of  the  woods,  like  an  indigenous  tribe  showing  itself  to  explorers;  they  settled  on  the  steps  and  porches  of  the  rec  hall,  to  swing  their  feet  and  observe.  Little  Nick  Silver,  a  math  whiz  from  Toughkenamon,  [REDACTED],  who  at  a  precocious  twelve  years  old  was  the  youngest  kid  at  camp,  sat  down  next  to  me.  &quot;You  have  got  to  be  jok-  ing,&quot;  he  whispered.  &quot;They'll  eat  us  for  breakfast!&quot;  With  the  Thunderbirds  had  come  a  counsellor  from  the  social  agency  that  had  sponsored  their  visit:  a  tall,  sallow  white  man  with  thinning  curly  hair  and  a  weary,  skeptical  way  of  regard-  ing  the  woods,  the  camp  buildings,  the  evening  sky,  and  his  charges.  He  talked  with  Ned  Woolworth  for  a  few  minutes  and  then  climbed  back  in-  side  the  battered  school  bus,  turning  around  only  once  to  smile  sardonically  at  the  Thunderbirds.  &quot;See  you  later,  guys,&quot;  he  called  out.  &quot;Behave  your-  selves.&quot;  The  Thunderbirds  responded  with  a  kind  of  roar,  and  then  the  school  bus  started  up  with  another  " b"wrench  of  gears  and  rattled  off  through  the  trees.  NCE  the  newcomers  had  filed  down  the  path  into  the  woods,  to  put  their  bags  away  in  the  tents,  one  of  the  counsellors  rang  the  evening-  activities  bell.  &quot;We'll  have  introduc-  tions  at  campfire,&quot;  she  announced.  &quot;Be  friendly!&quot;  We  campers  simply  looked  at  one  another.  With  the  Thunderbirds  gone  from  the  clearing,  a  powerful  current  of  noise  and  energy  had  suddenly  been  shut  off.  Bats  flitted  across  the  darken-  ing  sky,  and  a  breeze  from  the  lake  carried  a  smell  of  damp  leaf  mold.  While  the  others  were  lining  up,  I  went  over  to  inspect  a  far  corner  of  the  dining  hall,  where  I'd  seena  group  of  the  Thunderbirds  clustering.  There,  scratched  deeply  into  the  green  paint,  was  a  miniature  version  of  the  same  long-stemmed,  weirdly  elegant  graffiti  that  had  covered  the  school  bus,  and  that  I  had  seen  spray-painted  on  de-  crepit  buildings  on  trips  to  the  city.  It  read:  &quot;T  BIRDZ  RULE.&quot;  Marvin  Jones  was  the  leader  of  the  Thunderbirds.  At  the  get-acquainted  campfire,  it  was  his  command  that  gal-  vanized  his  troops  into  standing  up  and  stepping  forward,  one  by  one,  to  give  their  names.  (L.  T.  LaWanda.  Doze.  Brother  Willy.)  He  himself  stood  by  in  the  firelight  with  a  crazy  tremor  running  through  his  body,  wearing  arubber-lipped  showman's  smirk,  like  a  black  Mick  Jagger.  (Stretch.  Dewey.  Belinda.  Guy.)  In  the  bright  circle  of  hot  moving  light  that  baked  our  faces  and  knees  and  left  our  backs  chilled  with  the  damp  breath  of  the  bigpine  grove  behind  us,  we  campers  studied  the  Thunderbirds  and  they  studied  us.  Both  groups  had  the  same  peculiar  expression:  not  hostility  but  a  wary  reservation  of  judgment.  As  bits  of  ash  danced  like  a  swarm  of  glowing  insects  in  the  draft  of  the  fire  -a  big  log-cabin  fire,  built  especially  for  the  occasion  by  the  woodcrafts  class-Ned  Woolworth,  his  cheerful,  freckled  wife,  Hannah,  and  the  rest  of  the  staff  guided  us  all  through  a  num-  ber  of  cheers  and  folk  songs.  Most  of  the  counsellors  looked  ea-  ger  and  uneasy.  The  near-instanta-  neous  grapevine  among  the  campers  had  already  reported  that  the  Thun-  derbirds  had  gotten  into  trouble  imme-  diately  after  their  arrival,  as  they  walked  down  the  path  to  the  boys'  tents.  Marvin  Jones  and  two  others had  shinnied  up  a  tall,  skinny  tree-  one  of  the  birches,  unusual  in  that  area,  and  beloved  by  the  nature  coun-  sellors-swinging  on  it  and  pulling  it  down  with  their  combined  weight  un-  til  it  seemed  likely  to  break.  When  one  of  the  counsellors  asked  them  to  stop,  Marvin  Jones,  laughing  crazily  and  hanging  on  to  the  birch,  responded,  &quot;This  is  the  woods,  man!  Ain't  no  law  against  climbing  no  tree  in  the  woods!&quot;  That  night,  the  Thunderbird  girls  who  had  been  assigned  to  share  our  tent  refused  to  undress  until  the  light  was  turned  out.  There  were  three  of  them:  a  pair  of  tiny,  frail-boned  twins  named  Cookie  and  June,  who  had  large  almond-shaped  eyes,  hair  done  identically  in  an  intricately  braided puff  over  each  ear,  and  small  breasts  in  sharp,  pointed  brassieres  that  stuck  out  like  Dixie  Cups  through  the  clinging  nylon  of  their  blouses,  and  Belinda,  a  stocky  girl  who  looked  twenty  years  old  and  had  a  slight  squint,  straight-  ened  hair  bleached  abright  orange-red  in  the  front,  and  a  loud,  unbridled  tongue  (I  had  heard  Belinda  laughing  and  cursing  above  the  others  when  they  got  off  the  bus).  She  was  subdued  now,  as  were  Cookie  and  June,  the  three  of  them  sitting  bolt  upright  on  the  tightly  stretched  army  blankets  of  the  cots  that  had  been  set  up  for  them,  muttering  replies  to  the  kindly  chit-  chat  of  our  counsellor,  Molly.  Molly  was  from  [REDACTED]-a  student  with  an  anxious,  plump  face  and  a  delightful  habit  of  shaking  her  head  at  her  camp-  ers  and  exclaiming,  &quot;Girls,  you  are  becoming  hardened  in  your  ways!&quot;  The  three  Thunderbird  girls  re-  sponded  to  Molly  with  a  sudden  opac-  ity  of  gaze,  glances  among  them-  selves,  and  abrupt  fits  of  shy  giggling.  We  campers  were  stricken  with  shy-  ness  ourselves:  there  was  none  of  our  usual  roughhousing,  or  bedtime  ballets  in  our  underwear.  Instead,  we  un-  " b"dressed  quickly  in  our  bunks,  turning  away  from  each  other,  painfully  con-  scious  of  the  contrast  between  the  lav-  ishly  equipped  trunks  from  which  we  drew  our  pajamas  and  the  small  vinyl  bags  that  our  guests  had  brought.  Once  Molly  had  turned  off  the  single  yellow  bulb  that  illuminated  the  tent  and  had  strolled  off  up  the  path  to  a  staff  meeting  at  the  rec  hall,  the  tent  was  unnaturally  silent.  I  arranged  myself  on  my  lumpy  top  bunk  as  I  always  did-with  the  sheet  over  my  head  to  keep  off  mosquitoes  and  breathed  in  the  scent  of  slightly  mildewed  canvas  from  the  rolled  sides  of  the  tent.  From  the  bunk  beneath  me,  Chen-cheu,  an  instant  and  sound  sleeper,  gave  an  adenoidal  snore,  and  I  could  hear  little  clicks  and  rustlings  that  meant  that  the  Thunderbird  girls  were  undressing.  There  was  a  cool  breeze  blowing  with  a  steady  rushing  sound  in  the  trees,  and  I  wondered  what  the  girls  from  the  city  were  thinking  as  they  listened,  perhaps  for  the  first  time  in  their  lives,  to  the  noises  of  the  wild  night.  Never  had  I  been  so  aware  of  the  woods  as  a  living  place  around  me.  Over  the  stubborn  saw  of  the  crickets,  I  heard  two  hoots  from  a  white-faced  owl  that  lived  in  a  tree  near  our  tent,  and  a  gradually  intensifying  gray  light  in  the  direction of  the  lake  meant  the  moon  was  rising.  In  my  mind,  the  moon  mingled  with  the  yellow  school  bus  that  had  brought  the  Thunderbirds,  and  thensuddenly  I  found  myself  sliding  quickly  out  of  the  vision,  knowing  that  I'd  been  asleep.  What  had  awakened  me  was  a  soft  voice.  It  was  the  new  girl  June,  call-  ing  out  to  her  sister  in  a  whisper.  &quot;Cookie-Cookie-are  you  up?  I  hear  a  noise.&quot;  There  was  a  creak  as  Cookie  got  up  and  crept  over  to  her  sister's  cot.  I  leaned  my  head  out  slightly  from  my  bunk,  and  in  the  dim  moonlight  caught  a  glimpse  of  the  tiny  girl,  her  hair  greased  and  braided  for  thenight,  dressed  in  her  underwear.  It  hadn't  oc-  curred  to  me  until  then  that  perhaps  the  Thunderbird  girls  didn't  have  paja-  mas.  &quot;Hush,  girl,&quot;  whispered  Cookie  to  her  sister,  sitting  lightly  down  on  the  cot.  &quot;Hush  up!  You  want  these  bitches  to  hear  you?&quot;  &quot;But  there's  a  noise,  June.  &quot;Hush  up,  girl.  It's  just  trees,  that's  all.  Just  trees.&quot;  There  was  silence,  and  when  after  a  few  minutes  I  edged  my  head  out  of  the  bunk  to  have  another  look  I  saw  that  Cookie  had  lain  down  on  her  sis-  ter's  cot,  and  that  the  two  girls  were  &quot;  whimpered  sleeping  with  their  heads  close  to-  gether  on  the  pillow.  T  breakfast,  Ned  Woolworth  an-  nounced  to  a  chorus  of  groans  from  the  campers  that  instead  of  swimming  or  canoeing  or  tennis  we  would  divide  up  into  small  groups  for  what  he  called  rap  sessions.  My  group  included  Ellen;  Jackie  Murdock,  a  camper  notorious  throughout  Gray-  feather  for  his  prolonged  belches  at  mealtimes;  a  round-faced  Thunderbird  named  Ricky;  and  a  skinnier  Thun-  derbird  named  Les,  who  wore  a  pe-  culiar  rust-colored  bowler  hat.  There  was  also  Marvin  Jones,  the  Thunder-  bird  leader,  who  wore  an  Army  fa-  tigue  jacket,  open  to  show  his  gleam-  ing  bronze  chest,  and  sat  slumped,  wiggling  his  feet,  an  expression  of  exaggerated  forbearance  on  his  face.  The  six  of  us  met  with  a  counsellor  in  a  grove  of  pin  oaksnear  the  chapel.  It  was  one  of  those  clear,  dry,  autum-  nal  days  that  occasionally  leap  ahead  of  their  time  into  the  middle  of  Au-  gust.  The  sky  was  a  sharp  blue,  crisp  moving  shadows  checkered  the  ground,  and  in  the  eyes  of  all  of  the  kids  sit-  ting  there  was  a  skittish,  inattentive  look,  as  if  they  might  dash  off  sudden-  ly  into  the  breezy  woods.  A  green  acorn  plopped  down  near  " b"Ricky,  the  Thunderbird  sitting  beside  Ellen.  &quot;Wha's  that?&quot;  he  asked  her,  pointing.  &quot;That's  an  acorn,&quot;  said  Ellen  scornfully,  tossing  back  her  red  hair.  &quot;Didn't  you  ever  see  an  acorn  before?&quot;  &quot;No,  Sweet  Thighs,&quot;  said  Ricky,  giving  her  a  lascivious,  cherubic  smile  that  showed  a  broken  front  tooth.  He  picked  up  the  acorn  and  put  it  care-  fully  in  his  pocket.  The  counsellor  clapped  her  hands.  She  was  a  diving  coach,  with  a  pugna-  cious,  sunburned  face  and  a  blunt,  bossy  way  of  talking.  &quot;'This  morning,  we're  going  to  discuss  friendship,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;We  all  have  friends,  so  let's  talk  about  them-who  they  are,  and  what  they  mean  to  us-&quot;  &quot;I  don't  have  friends,  Marvin  Jones.  &quot;What?&quot;  said  the  counsellor.  &quot;I  said  I  don't  have  friends,&quot;  said  Marvin  Jones,  looking  at  her  seri-  ously,  the  platinum  streak  in  his  hair  glittering  in  the  sunlight  through  the  treetops.  &quot;'Yeah,  that's  right,  [REDACTED]  I  mean,  shit-scuse  me,  Miss-I  got  my  men.  Spike  is  my  man.  Ricky  is  my  man.  And  L.T.,  that  dude  with  the  sunglasses  and  the  'Free  Africa'  T-  shirt,  he's  my  maiz  man.  I  mean,  them  dudes  will  cut  for  me.  But  they  don't  be  no  friends.  And  then  we  got  the  &quot;  interrupted  Thunderbird  Queens-I  mean  our  la-  dies.&quot;  &quot;They're  not  your  friends,  of  course,&quot;  said  the  counsellor  acidly.  &quot;No.  Like  I  said,  we  don't  have  no  friends.  We  got  enemies,  though  -the  Twelfth  and  Diamond  Street  gang.  You  ever  hear  of  them?&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cN00\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;&quot;Well,  that's  good,  'cause  the  T-  birds  are  on  top.  Wait  a  minute-I'll  show  you  something.&quot;  He  gave  a  curt,  imperious  nod  to  Ricky  and  the  other  Thunderbird  be-  side  him,  and  an  odd  tension  seemed  to  seize  all  three  of  them.  The  woods  seemed  very  quiet  for  a  minute,  and  all  at  once,  synchronized,  they  stood  up,  snapping  their  fingers.  In  high,  plain-  tive  voices,  they  broke  into  words  and  rhythms  that  were  not  quite  a  song,  not  quite  a  chant:  &quot;What  the  word/  Thunderbird  .  ..&quot;  It  was  a  strange  mixture:  a  little  bit  of  Motown,  a  bit  of  the  interlocking  verses  all  kids  use  to  choose  sides  for  games,  a  bit  of  the  bouncy  silliness  of  football  and  basketball  cheers,  all  bound  together  quite  naturally  with  swearwords-words  that  we  Gray-  feather  campers  all  knew  and  used  enthusiastically  among  ourselves,  in  spite  of  what  parents  and  teachers  and  counsellors  had  to  say.  The  Thunderbird  song  could  have  been  ridicu-  lous,  but  instead  it  was  thrilling,  car-  rying  with  it,  to  those  of  us  who  sat  listening,  all  the  resonance  of  a  dan-  gerous  young  life  in  the  city.  It  was  clear  that  the  song  was  not  in-  tended  as  an  entertainment  for  us  but  was  presented  as  a  kind  of  cre-  dential,  like  the  letters  scratched  into  the  paint  of  the  rec  hall.  Ellen  and  I  punched  each  other  excitedly  in  the  ribs,  and  tried  to  remember  every  word.  When  the  song  was  finished,  Marvin  Jones  and  the  two  other  Thunderbirds  flopped  down  abruptly  at  the  base  of  a  tree,  their  faces  full  of  restrained  pride.  &quot;That  was  great,  fellows,&quot;  said  the  counsellor.  She  was  trying  to  seem  cordial,  but  it  was  clear  that  she  was  uncomfortable,  almost  angry,  about  what  had  just  happened.  &quot;Let's  see  if  you  can  do  a  little  more  talking  now,  so  that  we  can  get  to  know  you.&quot;  Marvin  Jones  picked  up  a  twig  from  the  ground  and  tapped  the  toes  of  his  sneakers  with  it-one,  two,  three.  &quot;Lady,  you  just  got  to  know  us,&quot;  he  said.  DOWN  at  the  lake  that  afternoon,  Jimmy  Terkel,  the  boating  counsellor,  gave  a  briefing  on  canoe-  ing  to  an  assembled  group  of  camp-  ers  and  Thunderbirds.  Jimmy  Terkel  was  a  dark,  soft-spoken  young  man,  who  loved  the  lit-  tle  irregular  lake,  with  its  cedar  water  and  clustering  lilies;  all  summer  he  had  made  canoeing  into  an  austere  rite,  embarking  on  sol-  itary  voyages  at  dawn  or  sunset,  an  angular  sil-  houette  at  the  far  cor-  ner  of  the  water.  The  afternoon  had  grown  overcast,  and  as  Jimmy  Terkel  talked  about  wa-  ter  safety  and  demon-  strated  the  proper  way  to  dip  and  feather  a  pad-  dle-the  lecture  was  chiefly  for  the  newcom-  ers,  since  the  campers  had  been  handling  canoes  all  summer-swarms  of  audacious  gnats  made  forays  at  our  eyes  and  ears.  Suddenly,  in  the  mid-  dle  of  the  talk,  Marvin     " b"Jones  strode  over  to  one  of  the  aluminum  canoes  on  the  shore  and  began  to  push  it  toward  the  water.  &quot;I  want  to  go  for  a  ride,  Mister,&quot;  he  said  politely  to  Jimmy  Terkel.  &quot;I  know  how  to  do  this.  I  see  it  all  the  time  on  TV.&quot;  'Three  other  Thun-  derbirds  grabbed  pad-  dles  and  rushed  over  to  the  canoe,  pushing  it  through  the  shallows  to  deeperwater,  and  tilt-  ing  it  dangerously  when  they  all  climbed  in,  about  fifteen  yards  from  shore.  &quot;That's  too  many  in  a  boat,  fellows!&quot;  called  Jimy  Terkel,  coming  forward,  The  gunwales  of  the  overloaded  canoe  were  riding  about  six  inches  above  the  surface  of  the  lake,  and  the  boat  shipped  water  as  the  passen-  gers  thrashed  about  try-  ing  to  position  them-  selves;  miraculously,  the  canoe  did  not  capsize.  There  was  an  argument  between  two  of  the  Thunderbirds  (&quot;You  on  my  erm,  man!&quot;),  and  then  the  canoe  took  off  with  an  irregular  splayed  motion,  as  Marvin  Jones  and  a  second  Thun-  derbird  paddled  with  great  splashing  thrusts.  &quot;Oh,  #o&quot;'  Jimmy  Terkel  muttered,  glancing  automatically  at  the  heap  of  orange  life  preservers  on  the  shore.  But  no  disaster  occurred.  The  canoe  made  its  awkward,  lunging  way  into  a  cluster  of  lily  pads,  and  we  heard  the  delighted  yells  of  the  novice  canoeists  as  they  yanked  up  the  tough-stemmed  blossoms-an  act  that  the  camp  staff,  ardent  conservationists  all,  had  raised  in  our  minds  to  the  level  of  a  felony.  Then  the  boys  in  the  boat  all  took  off  their  shirts,  and  Marvin  Jones  stood  precariously  upright  to  paddle  like  a  gondolier,  a  big  lily  coiled  dripping  around  his  neck.  There  was  some-  thing  barbaric  and  absurd  about  the  sight  of  him  paddling  that  overloaded  canoe,  which,  as  it  wobbled  heavily  over  the  dark  water,  seemed  a  parody  of  a  boat,  something  out  of  a  nursery  rhyme.  As  I  watched,  there  came  to  me  out  of  nowhere  a  surge  of  pure  happiness.  The  other  campersseemed  to  feel  it  as  well;  the  faces  of  the  kids  around  me  were  contorted  with  crazy  laughter,  and  some  of  them  were  jumping  up  and  down.  Out  of  the  corner  of  my  eye,I  saw  one  of  the  campers,  from  pure  joie  de  vivre  as  it  were,  pick  up  a  handful  of  sand  and  rub  it  into  the  hair  of  his  bunkmate.  Just  for  a  minute,  it  seemed  that  the  camp  was  a  place  where  any  mad  thing  could  happen.  While  Jimmy  Terkel  stood  on  the  shore  with  an  angry  smile  on  his  face,  campers  and  Thunder-  birds  alike  were  almost  dying  with  glee.  HAT  was  the  last,  really  the  only,  good  time  we  had  with  the  Thunderbirds.  Later  that  afternoon,  a  scuffle  broke  out  near  the  camp  infir-  mary  between  two  of  the  gang  mem-  bers  and  a  stableboy.  A  burly  counsel-  lor  from  [REDACTED]  broke  up  the  fight,  which  was  just  a  matter  of  shoving  and  name-calling.  The  participants  were  made  to  stand  face  to  face  and  explain  themselves,  and  in  the  process  they  quite  spontaneously  shook  hands  and  apologized.  In  ten  minutes,  the  grapevine  had  telegraphed  news  of  the  scuffle  to  all  parts  of  Grayfeather.  It  seemed  that  everyone  involved  in  the  fight  had  laughed  it  off  except  for  Ned  Woolworth,  who  had  rushed  to  the  scene  and  glared  at  the  three  boys  as  if  he  wanted  to  knock  them  all  down.  The  staff  had  scheduled  a  hayride  for  that  night.  Normally,  the  campers  looked  forward  to  hayrides:  the  dusky  country  roads,  shrill  with  insects;  the  creaky  wagon  and  plodding,  pungent  horses;  the  deep,  scratchy  hay  that  offered  the  opportunity  for  a  little  romantic  improvisation  (though  Gray-  feather,  a  camp  of  overeducated  four-  teen-year-olds,  was  notoriously  back-  ward  in  that  department).  Early  in  the  evening,  a  subtle  intelligence  flashed  through  the  ranks  of  the  campers,  a  kind  of  mass  intuition  that  suggested  that  things  would  be  much  better  if  we  let  the  Thunderbirds  go  hayrid-  ing  on  their  own.  To  the  bewilder-  ment  of  our  counsellors,  who  had  no  way  of  forcing  us  to  accept  a  treat,  all  of  the  campers,  gently  but  immovably,  refused  to  go.  After  dinner,  Ellen,  Chen-cheu,  and  I  and  the  other  girls  from  our  tent  took  part  in  a  desultory  sunset  game  of  " b"Capture  the  Flag,  as  the  Thunder-  birds  and  their  girls,  escorted  by  Grayfeather  staff  members,  boarded  the  wagon.  An  hour  and  a  half  later,  the  returning  wagon  creaked  slowly  up  to  the  recreation  hall.  Norah  Pfleisch,  an  excitable  junior  coun-  sellor,  rushed  inside  and  burst  into  tears  on  the  shoulder  of  Ned  Wool-  worth's  wife,  Hannah,  who  was  direct-  ing  a  spur-of-the-moment  Ping-Pong  tournament.  &quot;I've  never,  mever  had  anything  like  this  happen,&quot;  sobbed  Norah,  resisting  Hannah's  efforts  to  lead  her  out  of  the  rec  hall  and  away  from  the  fascinated  gaze  of  forty  campers.  &quot;They-forni-  cated!  They  lay  in  the  hay  like  animals  and  just  .  .  .  did  it!  It  started  when  we  went  under  the  old  covered  bridge.  It  was  such  a  beautiful  night.  Usually  we  sing  on  hayrides,  but  this  time  I  didn't  know  where  to  look,  or  what  to  listen  to!&quot;  We  all  rushed  to  the  door  of  the  rec  hall.  Outside,  under  a  clear  night  sky  streaked  with  meteor  showers,  the  Thunderbirds  and  their  girls,  chat-  tering  loudly  and  innocently,  were  climbing  out  of  the  wagon,  pulling  hay  out  of  each  other's  clothes.  THINGS  fell  apart  completely  the  next  day.  That  morning  at  swimming  class,  another  fight  broke  out-this  one  between  Femi,  the  camper  from  [REDACTED],  and  an  agile,  pale-skinned,  sullen-faced  'Thunder-  bird.  On  the  shore  in  front  of  the  swimming  area  of  the  lake,  as  the  white  rope  and  bright  floats  of  the  lane  dividers  bobbed  gaily  in  the  morning  sun,  two  counsellors  held  back  the  two  struggling  boys  in  bathing  suits,  Femi  with  a  swollen  nostril  leaking  blood.  &quot;I'll  kill  that  filthy  little  nigger  bas-  tard,&quot;  panted  Femi  in  his  Mayfair  accent,  wiping  his  nose  with  his  coal-  black  arm.  &quot;I'll  smear  his  dirty  little  arse  all  over  the  beach.  He  called  me  a  monkey!&quot;  &quot;He  spit  on  me,&quot;  the  Thunderbird  was  muttering,  scuffling  his  feet  in  the  sand.  Marvin  Jones,  his  platinum  streak  glowing  brilliantly  in  the  blinding  sunlight,  was  called  over  to  make  peace.  &quot;This  ain't  no  way  to  act,&quot;  he  began,  but  his  tone  was  insincere,  the  tone  of  a  showman  bent  on  pleasing  everyone.  He  sent  a  quick,  shifty  grin  over  to  the  Thunderbirds  standing  near  him,  and  one  of  them  suddenly  shoved  a  camper,  who  went  sprawling   into  the  lake.  In  the  boys'  swim  group,  a  general  melee  broke  out  between  campers  and  Thunderbirds,  the  tanned  bodies  of  the  campers  mingling  wildly  with  the  small,  dark,  muscular  Thun-  derbirds.  The  two  counsellors  were  themselves  dragged  in.  Pairs  of  boys  bolted,  yelling  threats,  and  ran  off  into  the  woods.  The  girls  at  the  lake,  both  Thun-  Santos  derbirds  and  campers,  were  quickly  marched  away  to  our  tents,  where  we  were  told  to  sit  quietly.  Looking  into  her  trunk,  Chen-cheu  found  that  some-  one  had  taken  three  of  her  prettiest  T-  shirts  and  a  new  bathing  suit.  When  she  complained  loudly  about  it,  she  found  herself  surrounded  by  the  three  Thunderbird  girls  who  shared  the  tent  with  us.  They  began  to  jostle  " b"Chen-cheu,  and  to  pluck  at  her  long,  black  hair.  Chen-cheu  promptly  socked  Be-  linda  in  the  stomach.  Our  counsellor,  Mol-  ly,  came  running  down  the  path  from  the  rec  hall  at  precisely  the  moment  when  Chen-  cheu,  propelled  by  a  nasty  push,  came  flying  out  of  the  tent  and  sprawled  in  the  dust,  shrieking  out  a  string  of  curses  that  even  El-  len  and  I  had  never  before  heard  her  use.  Her  beautiful  face  was  contorted  and  almost  purple  with  rage,  but  she  wasn't  crying.  None  of  us  were.  Af-  ter  that,  we  were  sep-  arated  from  the  Thun-  derbird  girls.  Meanwhile,  the  boys  were  being  rounded  up.  I  heard  later  that  a  number  of  them  were  found  grappling  in  twos  and  threes  in  the  woods;  there  were  surprising-  ly  few  injuries  beyond  a  few  black  eyes  and  bloody  noses.  &quot;We  had  a  plan,&quot;  one  of  the  boy  campers  said  afterward.  &quot;We  were  going  to  barricade  ourselves  in  the  infir-  mary  and  fight  'em  off  from  there.  Fire-  bomb  'em.&quot;  The  Thunderbird  boys,  escorted  by  several  strapping  counsellors  called  in  from  a  tennis  camp  across  the  lake,  were  confined  to  the  rec  hall.  By  eleven  o'clock  on  a  fine,  sharp,  hot  August  morning,  Camp  Grayfeather  had  settled  into  a  stillness  in  which  the  only  sounds  were  those  of  a  sublimely  untroubled  nature:  birdsong,  the  harsh  whirring  of  cica-  das,  the  light  slapping  of  waves  on  the  lake  shore.  ONE  of  us  were  surprised  to  dis-  cover  that  the  Thunderbirds  were  to  be  sent  home.  I  sat  with  nine  other  girls  on  the  sagging  bunks  of  our  tent  as  Hannah  Woolworth,  her  kindly  face  pale  and  drawn  with  strain beneath  its  sunburn  and  freckles,  talked  to  us.  &quot;We  all  feel  that  it  would  be  better  and  safer  for  everyone,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;We  don't  want  any  of  you  kids  getting  hurt.&quot;  When  she  said  &quot;you  kids,&quot;  it  was  clear  that  she  did  not  mean  the  Thun-  derbirds.  I  looked  at  Ellen  and  Chen-cheu,  and  they  looked  back  at  me.  Events  were  passing,  as  usual,  into  the  un-  reachable  sphere  of  adult  justice,  and  though  there  was  a  certain  relief  in  that,  it  also  seemed  sad.  For  a  day  and  a  half,  the  Thunderbirds,  like  a  small  natural  disaster,  had  given  an  edge  of  crazy  danger  to  life  at  Grayfeather;  now  the  same  powers  that  had  brought them  to  us  were  taking  them  away.  &quot;We  didn't  even  get  a  chance  to  learn  all  their  names,&quot;  said  Ellen  slowly,  after  Hannah  Woolworth  had  left.  A  flicker  of  resentment  ran  through  the  group  of  girls  crowded  together  in  the  tent,  and  Ellen  and  I  began,  with  an  obscure  feeling  of  defiance,  to  teach  theothersthe  song  that  the  Thunder-  birds  had  sung  for  us  under  the  oak  trees  the  day  before.  In  about  two  hours,  after  we'd  eaten  a  large  pile  of  bologna  sandwiches  on  horrid  white  bread,  sandwiches  that  the  camp  cook  had  provided  as  a  sort  of  emergency  takeout  lunch,  we  heard  through  the  woods  the  unmistakable  " b" sound  of  a  bus.  &quot;We've  got  to  see  this,&quot;  I  said.  Five  of  us-Ellen,  Chen-cheu,  and  I,  and  two  other  girls-jumped  up  and,  against  the  strict  instructions  left  us  by  our  absent  counsellor,  took  off  toward  the  rec  hall.  We  didn't  take  the  path,  but  ran,  dodging  like  Indian  scouts,  through  the  underbrush,  stifling  occasional  nervous  giggles  and  trying  to  avoid  the  poison  ivy.  When  we  got  to  the  edge  of  the  clearing,  we  stood  discreetly  back  in  the  bushes  and  ob-  servedthe  scene.  The  midday  sun  gave  the  clearing  a  close,  sleepy  feeling.  The  Thunderbirds,  their  spirits  ap-  parently  undaunted,  stood  in  a  ram-  bunctious  platoon  behind  a  grim-faced  Ned  Woolworth,  and  the  familiar  graffiti-covered  school  bus  was  just  coming  to  a  halt  in  the  parking  lot.  We  could  see  that  the  same  tall,  curly-haired  man  who  had  delivered  the  Thunderbirds  was  coming  to  pick  them  up;  this  time,  he  was  wearing  a  green  eyeshade,  as  if  he'd  been  inter-  rupted  during  a  stretch  of  desk  work.  He  came  quickly  down  the  bus  steps  and  strode  over  to  stand  in  front  of  the  assembled  Thunderbirds.  &quot;Well,&quot;  he     said,  clapping  his  hands  together.  &quot;What  the  hell  have  you  guys  been  doing  now!?&quot;  The  Thunderbirds,  all  of  them,  broke  into  loud  laughter,  as  if  he  had  just  told  them  the  best  joke  in  the  world.  &quot;We  ain't  been  doing  nothing,  man,&quot;  answered  Marvin  Jones,  rock-  ing  on  his  heels.  &quot;Just  being  our-  selves!&quot;  The  curly-haired  man  pulled  off  his  visor  and  sighed  so  that  even  we  could  hear  him,  fixing  his  weary,  skeptical  gaze  for  a  second  on  Marvin  Jones'  scarred  face,  and  then  on  the  golden  hills  and  fields  of  the  [REDACTED]  coun-  tryside  rolling  into  the  distance.  He  talked  to  Ned  Woolworth  in  a  low  voice  for  a  few  minutes,  and  then  turned  back  to  his  charges  and  sighed  again.  &quot;Come  on,  get  on  the  bus,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;We're  going  back  to  the  city.&quot;  When  we  five  girls  heard  the  bus  start  up,  we  did  something  we  hadn't  planned  to  do.  Without  anyone  sug-  gesting  it,  we  all  took  to  our  heels  again  and  ran  through  the  woods  to  a  dusty  crossroads  far  from  the  clearing,  a  spot  where  we  knew  the  bus  had  to  pass.  Through  some  extraordinary,  even  magical,  coincidence,  the  same  plan  had  occurred  to  each  one  of  us.  When  the  bus  came  rattling  up  to  the  crossroads  a  few  seconds  after  we  got  there,  the  five  of  us,  like  guerrilla  fighters,  dashed  out  of  the  bushes  onto  the  road.  'Stop  the  bus!  Stop  for  a  minute!&quot;  we  shouted.  The  bus  slowed  and  halted,  with  a  squeal  of  brakes,  and  the  Thunderbirds  stuck  their  heads  out  of  the  windows.  We  could  see  Marvin  Jones'  platinum  streak  shin-  ing  beside  Belinda's  patch  of  dyed  red  hair.  ''We  wanted  to  sing  your  song,&quot;  said  Ellen,  and  without  further  ado  we  all  be-  gan  clapping  our  hands  and  chanting  the  profane  verses  that  belonged  to  the  Thun-  derbirds.  &quot;What  the  word/Thun-  derbird  ..  .&quot;  We  probably  looked  ridiculous-  five  girls  in  cutoffs,  football  T-shirts,  and  moccasins,  clapping  and  trying  to  perform  like  a  group  of  tough  guys  on  a  city  street  corner-but  we  felt  natu-  ral,  synchronized,  as  if  we  were  doing  a  good  job.  When  we  had  finished,  the  Thun-  derbirds-still  hanging  out  of  the  windows  of  the  bus-gave  usa  burst  of  grave,  polite  applause.  Marvin  Jones  leaned  farther  forward  out  of  the  window.  &quot;That  sounded  good,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;And  we're  sorry  to  leave.&quot;  The  two  groups  looked  at  each  other,  and  it  seemed  for  a  minute  that  some  obscure  misunderstanding  was  about  to  be  cleared  up,  and  then  the  bus  started  up  and  moved  slowly  away  through  the  trees."