 b"THIS  morning  while  Daryl  Eck-  ner  was  equalizing  my  sideburns  with  his  electric  clippers,  I  thought  I  saw  the  ring  pull  from  a  window  shade  hanging  down  from  his  glasses.  At  first,  it  was  just  dangling  down  in  front  of  his  face,  but  it  started  dancing  around  when  Daryl  said  to  me,  about  the  big  tornado  that  hit  us  a  while  back,  &quot;It  could  have  been  worse.&quot;  Then,  just  like  all  the  other  weird  things  I'd  seen  since  that  tor-  nado,  the  ring  pull  was  gone.  Daryl  was  right:  it  could  have  been  a  whole  lot  worse.  Because  what  the  big  Palm  Sunday  twister  didn't  do,  fortunately,  was  harm  any  man,  wom-  an,  or  child  here.  But  that  was  prob-  ably  only  because  our  heroic  ham-  radio  operators  got  such  speedy  ad-  vance  warnings  out  around  town.  And  the  fact  that  we  all  have  good,  strong  storm  cellars  didn't  hurt,  either.  Af-  ter  that,  we  were  just  plain  lucky,  I  guess,  because  when  thebig  twister  lifted  (Dad  always  used  to  say  they  can  take  off  as  quickly  as  they  land),  and  people  came  out  of  hiding  and  start-  ed  looking  over  the  damage  to  their  homes,  property,  and  livestock,  the     TWISTER  DID  old-timers  in  town  agreed  that  the  twister  had  been  pretty  nasty.  It  seemed  nasty  to  me,  too,  even  though  it  was  my  first  experience  with  one.  But  there  was  something  else  about  it.  I  mean,  I  didn't  have  to  sur-  vey  what  was  left  of  Mom's  and  my  home  and  belongings  or  of  my  bicycle-  repair  shop  in  the  barn  for  very  long  to  understand  why  people  always  call  tornadoes  mischievous.  Because  you  know  what  the  big  twister  did?  It  yanked  the  little  man  off  the  top  of  my  horseshoes  trophy  (seven  years  ago,  in  high  school,  I  pitched  a  pretty  ac-  curate  shoe)  and  blew  him  right  into  a  small  7Up  bottle.  Didn't  even  disturb  the  right  arm  he's  got  cocked  back.  And  you  know  where  we  finally  found  the  bottle?  Inside  one  of  Mom's  emp-  ty  hatboxes.  (Ever  since  Dad  passed  on,  it  seems  that  Mom  can't  collect  enough  empty  cardboard  boxes.)  And  that  turned  up  in  the  front  seat  of  my  Jeep,  which  was  discovered  about  two-  thirds  of  a  mile  down  the  road  from  our  place,  sitting  on  top  of  the  Met-  calfs'  silo,  where  the  dome  had  been.  Now,  if  that  had  been  the  tornado's  only  weird  trick  on  us,  it  wouldn't have  seemed  so  remarkable.  But  there  was  a  lot  more.  Take  the  big  Swiss  Army  knife  I  kept  in  my  top  bureau  drawer.  I  found  it  inside  the  grass-  seed  spreader,  which  had  its  T-shaped  handle  stuck  through  one  of  the  holes  of  the  big  birdhouse,  which  was  still  sitting  undisturbed  on  its  pole  in  our  front  yard.  And  all  theblades  and  tools  on  the  knife  were  flipped  out-  same  as  in  the  poster  they  used  to  have  taped  up  in  the  window  at  the  hard-  ware  store-minus  the  fish-scaler/  hook-disgorger,  which  was  gone  com-  pletely.  The  next  week,  when  the  in-  surance  agent  was  going  around  the  place  with  me,  thet  showed  up,  with  the  starter  rope  from  the  lawnmower  wrapped  around  it,  inside  the  banjo  Dad  made  for  me,  from  a  locally  grown  gourd,  when  I  was  born.  The  twister  didn't  pick  on  just  me  and  Mom,  though.  It  was  to  blame  for  similar  &quot;jokes&quot;  all  over  town.  Frank  Nisswa,  the  half-Sioux  whose  farm  is  on  the  opposite  side  of  town  from  us,  said  the  tornado  sucked  all  the  water  out  of  his  well  and  carried  his  china  cabinet  eight  hundred  yards  before  set-  ting  it  down  again  in  his  cornfield,  without  breaking  a  single  cup  or  dish.  And  Frank  told  me  that  inside,  sitting  on  top  ofa  stack  of  dinner  plates,  he  found  the  vise  that  had  been  clamped  to  his  workbench.  [REDACTED]  Kenner,  one  of  those  brave  ham-radio  operators  I  mentioned  before,  said  that  she  and  her  boyfriend  and  her  twins  came  out  of  their  storm  cellar  expecting  the  very  worst,  but  all  they  found  was  their  electronic  fun  organ's  bossa-nova  beat  playing  and  their  parakeet  plucked  clean  of  feathers  but  otherwise  O.K.  And  Daryl  Eckner  himself,  barber  and  captain  of  They  Might  Be  Gods,  our  State  Champion  tug-of-war  team,  has  told  everyone  over  and  over  how  he  climbed  out  of  his  cellar  to  find  that  the  travelling  van,  with  the  team's  name  painted  in  fancy  circus  lettering  on  both  sides,  which  was  normally  parked  in  his  back  yard,  had  vanished.  It  hasn't  shown  up  yet.  According  to  Daryl,  a  spiderweb  between  the  legs  of  his  barbecue-only  twenty  feet  from  where  the  van  had  been  sitting-hadn't  been  touched.  All  there  was,  he  said,  was  the  purple  foil  wrapping  from  an  Easter  candy  stuck  in  the  middle.  Word  of  what  the  big  twister  did  must  have  gotten  out  fast,  because  a  man  in  a  red  beret-some  sort  of  car-  nival  big  shot-showed  up  during  our  cleanup.  In  no  time,  with  the  help  of  our  eager  ham-radio  operators,  he  had  " b"the  news  out  that  he'd  be  setting  up  a  tent  where  the  self-service  car  wash  used  to  be,  and  was  ready  to  pay  cash  for  our  &quot;tornado  curiosities.&quot;  Even  before  he  got  all  the  tent  stakes  in  the  ground  he  bought  Chet  Rittie's  shot-  gun-with-seven-blades-of-straw-and-  a-mascara-applicator-driven-into-  the-stock,  and  Herman  Malone's  phone,  receiver-embedded-in-the-leaf-from-  a-dinner-table,  and  Gladys  Wells'  sneaker-lodged-inside-a-twenty-foot-  length-of-hose.  I  wonder  if  it  was  really  a  great  idea  to  be  pitching  that  easy  money  around  a  town  in  such  disrepair,  where  every-  one's  state  aid  and  insurance  money  was  still  two  weeks  away.  It  was  tempting  to  me,  I  know,  since  it  came  right  when  I  needed  cash  to  get  the  crane  to  come  in  and  take  my  Jeep  down  off  the  Metcalfs'  silo.  I  didn't  want  to  sell  my  horseshoe-pitcher-in-  the-7Up-bottle,  though.  How  many  times  is  a  guy-even  a  guy  living  in  twister  country-going  to  get  a  hold  of  a  keepsake  like  that?  So,  several  nights  running,  once  Mom  was  asleep  (it  seems  she  can't  sleep  enough  since  Dad  passed  on),  I  did  something  I'm  not  proud  of:  I  fashioned  my  own  twister  jokes.  I  figured  the  carnival  guy  wouldn't  know  the  difference,  and  maybe  I'd  get  my  Jeep  down.  It  wasn't  easy,  what  with  half  my  bicycle-repair  tools  scattered  who  knows  where,  but  after  a  few  sleep-  less  nights  in  the  barn  I'd  assembled  quite  a  group  of  &quot;authentic''  twister  cu-  riosities.  There  was  the  half-a-bowl-  ing-ball-with-the-bicycle-tire-pump-  lodged-in-the-thumbhole.  And  the  tricky  ball-of-piano-wire-and-salad-  forks-and-umbrella-skeleton-and-  bicycle-spokes-inside-a-big-gold-  fishbowl.  And  my  favorite,  which  I  really  wished  I  could  keep-the  ice-  cream-scoop-coming-out-of-bon-  gos-with-gardening-shears-going-in.  Well,  the  carnival  man  really  went  for  them-he  even  whistled  when  he  first  picked  up  the  bowling-ball  thing.  And  I  hired  the  crane  for  a  hundred  and  seventy-five  dollars  end  kept  my  man-in-the-bottle.  But  about  two  months  after  the  big  twister,  I  put  him  in  one  of  Mom's  empty  shoeboxes  that  still  had  the  white  tissue  in  it  and  buried  it.  I  didn't  need  it  anymore  to  know  how  weird  things  could  be  after  a  tornado,  be-  cause  even  though  our  town  was  pretty  much  back  together,  I  couldn't  walk  down  Center  Street  without,  for  a  moment,  seeing  some  kind  of  twister-curiosity  mirage,  like  a  lampshade  on  a  fire  hydrant,  or  the  float  ball  from  a  toilet  tank  drifting  across  a  big  puddle.  And  once  I  even  thought  I  saw  Mom's  rocker,  which  we  never  did  find,  hooked  upside  down  on  the  town-hall  clock.  I  even  planned  how  I  would  wait  for  the  hand  to  lower  to  twenty  after  the  hour  and  catch  the  thing  when  it  slid  off.  But  it  disappeared  at  ten  past.  The  worst  time  had  to  be  when  I  was  driving  home  in  my  res-  cued  Jeep,  with  the  annoying  new  whine  it  makes  over  thirty,  to  share  some  homemade  soup  with  Mom  and  finish  replacing  the  shingles.  I  glanced  up  at  the  top  of  the  Metcalfs'  silo,  where  the  new  dome  was  under  way,  and  for  just  a  moment  I  saw  myself  on  the  lookout  up  there  in  my  Jeep  with  a  portable  ham  radio  on  my  knees  and  my  half-a-pair-of-binoculars  around  my  neck.  This  condition  let  up  all  last  week,  but  this  morning,  in  the  barber  chair,  there  was  that  damn  ring  pull  swing,  ing  from  Daryl  Eckner's  glasses.  It  didn't  last  long,  though,  and  next  thing  I  knew  Daryl  was  going  on  and  on  about  the  upcoming  dance  that's  supposed  to  raise  money  for  our  tug-  of-war  team's  new  van.  &quot;We're  all  bouncing  back  now,  huh?&quot;  Daryl  said,  spinning  me  around  to  look  at  myself  in  the  mirror.  And  I  saw  a  largemouth  bass  on  my  head-until  Daryl  spun  me  back  a  hundred  and  eighty  degrees  from  the  mirror,  and  I  realized  it  was  just  the  old  prize-winner  that  had  al-  ways  been  mounted  on  Daryl's  wall.  And  tonight,  while  reorganizing  the  hall  closet,  I  came  across  the  fancy  Sunday  bonnet  Mom  used  to  wear  to  church  before  she  started  sleeping  through  the  bells.  I  almost  yanked  the  long  peacock  feather  from  under  the  hatband,  but  then  I  realized  that  that  was  exactly  where  it  belonged.  So  while  I'm  hoping  that  the  ring  pull  was  the  last  of  my  mirages,  I'm  begin-  ning  to  wonder  now  if  I'll  ever  again  see  anything  the  way  I  used  to. "