 b"ON  the  morning  of  his  fourteenth  birthday,  James  met  his  fatherin  the  kitchen.  His  fa-  ther  came  to  him  and  held  him  by  the  shoulders,  at  arm's  length,  and  looked  at  him  with  such  wry  and  compassion-  ate  warmth  that  the  boy  was  at  once  convinced  of  the  imminence  of  some  great  cataclysm.  Almost  the  same  height,  they  stared  at  each  other  for  nearly  halfa  minute.  &quot;So  you're  fourteen,&quot;  James'  father  said.  &quot;It  seems  no  time  since  I  first  held  you  in  my  arms.  With  great  trep-  idation  and  very  gingerly,  but  I  held  you.  And  here  you  are,  fourteen.&quot;  &quot;That's  it,&quot;  James  said.  &quot;Fourteen,&quot;  his  father  said.  &quot;Al-  ways  asad  anniversary  for  men  of  our  family.  A  sad  day.&quot;  He  picked  up  his  cup  of  coffee,  walked  to  the  window,  and  stared  seri-  ously  over  the  garden.  When  he  turned  away  from  the  window,  he  smiled  almost  shyly  at  James,  as  if  they  shared  an  enormous,  obligatory  knowledge-some  ominous  secret.  &quot;Come  into  the  dining  room  with  me,  James,&quot;  he  said.  The  dining  room  was  cold  and  quiet.  Its  mahogany  furniture  sat  sol-  idly  in  place,  heavy,  smelling  of  polish.  James  remembered  it  arriving  at  the  house  when  he  was  a  small  boy,  sent  south  from  his  grandmother's  home  in  Yorkshire.  The  room  was  rarelyused.  &quot;Sit  down,&quot;  James'  father  said.  &quot;It  would  be  best  if  you  sat  down.&quot;  James  sat  on  a  hard  chair.  Its  seat  had  been  broken  long  ago  and  repaired  with  some  old  craftsman's  adhesive.  James  felt  with  his  finger  the  small  ridge  of  the  mend.  He  could  see  a  black  streak  of  dry  glue  running  the  length  of  the  wood.  &quot;How  do  you  feel?&quot;  his  father  said.  &quot;We  can  postpone  this  if  you  don't  feel  up  to  it.&quot;  &amp;  &quot;Get  on  with  it,&quot;  James  said.  &quot;Whatever  it  is.&quot;  &quot;Admirably  stoic,&quot;  his  father  said.  &quot;I  wish  I  had  been  as  stoic  when  my  father  told  me.&quot;  you  what?&quot;James  said.  His  father  didn't  answer.  He  moved  quietly  into  a  corner  of  the  room,  and  then  he  spoke.  &quot;James,  when  the  men  of  our  family  reach  the  age  of  four-  teen,  they  are  thought  old  enough  to  bear  a  terrible  knowledge.  Generation  after  generation,  from  father  to  son,  we  havebeen  told  this  secret,  pledged  to  pass  it  on  in  our  turn.  Although  what  we  learn  has  in  many  ways  blighted  our  lives,  made  saddened  men  of  us,  we  have  all  borne  our  sorrow  bravely.  I  know  you  will  do  the  same.&quot;  Oh,  God,  thought  James,  rigid  on  his  chair,  we  suffer  from  incurable  hereditary  madness.  All  over  the  coun-  try  my  cousins,  tainted  and  cretinous,  are  shut  away  in  stone  towers.  We  are  descended  shamefully  and  illegiti-  mately-incestuously,  probably-from  some  nameless  criminal  family.  He  pushed  away  other  terrors,  too  hideous  to  think  of.  &quot;Tell  me,&quot;  he  said,  his  voice  a  croak.  His  father,  upright  and  slim  and  still,  stood  in  the  shadows  of  the  room.  He  was  remote  and  impersonal.  His  face  was  dark.  &quot;Remember,  it  is  my  duty  to  tell  you  this,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  would  willingly  have  spared  youand  kept  this  knowledge  alone.&quot;  &quot;Hell's  flames!&quot;  yelled  James,  his  control  at  an  end.  &quot;Tell  me!&quot;  For  a  long  moment,  until  the  imagined  echoes  of  his  cry  had  left  James'  ears,  his  father  waited.  Then  he  spoke.  &quot;There  is  no  Father  Christ-  mas,&quot;  he  said.  THAT  had  been  almost  two  weeks  ago,  and  James  still  laughed  at  the  memory,  although  he  had  been  wild  with  rage  at  first.  He  lay  in  bed  listening  to  his  father's  voice  through  the  open  window,  and  little  uncontrol-  lable  giggles  made  him  shake.  It  was  not  yet  seven  o'clock,  but  his  father  was  already  in  the  garden.  James  knew  what  he  was  doing.  He  was  standing  among  his  rosebushes,  encouraging  and  cajoling.  Every  morning  he  spoke  to  them,  full  of  praise  if  they  were  flowering  well,  like  a  general  before  battle  if  he  felt  they  could  do  better.  James  got  up  and  looked  out  at  his  father.  The  lawn  carried  a  heavy  summer  dew,  and  the  marks  of  his  father's  footsteps  were  clear.  He  had  wandered  all  over  the  garden,  but  he  stood  now  near  the  rose  bed,  talking  quietly  and  fondly.  James  could  not  hear  what  he  was  saying.  His  father's  thin  shanks  stuck  out  below  his  silk  robe.  It  was  a  glittering  paisley  robe  in  green  and  blue,  tied  at  the  waist  with  a  sash  of  darker  color.  Watching  his  father  bend  above  the  subservient  shrubs,  James  thought  he  looked  like  an  exotic  bird,  a  peacock  of  some  kind.  His  father  loved  birds  to  come  to  his  garden.  He  had  widened  the  trickle  of  a  stream  that  bordered  this  plot  into  two  small  pools,  so  that  he  could  keep  in  comfort  a  pairof  ancient  mallards,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Waddle.  This  morn-  ing,  hearing  the  man's  voice,  they  hopped  out  of  the  water  and  hurried     " b"loudly  to  him.  Mrs.  Waddle,  always  the  braver,  marched  to  his  feet  and  pecked  at  his  brown  slippers.  She  paused  to  look  up,  her  head  on  one  side,  out  of  a  round  black  eye.  A  yard  away,  Mr.  Waddle  looked  on  benevo-  lently.  He  was  in  his  summer  glory,  his  green  head  glossy,  his  speculum  a  trim  bar  of  reflecting  blue.  James'  fa-  ther  went  off  to  the  garage,  where  he  kept  a  sack  of  poultry  food.  It  was  then  that  a  kingfisher  flew  in,  pausedabove  the  stream,  and  dived.  He  was  bluelightning,  an  arrow  of  light;  his  flight  was  electric  and  barba-  rous.  He  took  instantly  from  the  shal-  low  water  a  small  fish,  stickleback  or  minnow,  and  perched  on  the  wooden  post  that  had  held  a  clematis,  killed  by  harsh  frost  two  yearsback.  James  saw  the  brilliant  turquoise  of  the  bird's  back,  the  warm  chestnut  breast,  his  sturdy  beak.  The  kingfisher  held  the  small  fish  struggling  across  his  beak  and  whacked  it  savagely  and  expertly  against  the  wood  before  he  slid  it  down  his  throat.  Then  he  flew,  seem-  ing  to  leave  behind  a  visible  echo  of  his  flight,  a  streak  of  color.  James'  father  came  out  of  the  garage,  holding  a  bow!  of  pellets.  His  ducks  begged  and  skidded  before  him.  He  had  missed  the  whole  appearance  of  the  kingfisher.  THAT  afternoon,  because  his  mother  had  gone  to  [REDACTED]  to  see  her  sister,  James  went  with  his  father  to  the  nursing  home.  His  father  would  not  go  alone.  &quot;Charles  Emerson,  to  see  his  mother,&quot;  he  said  to  the  receptionist.  &quot;And  James  Emerson,  to  seehis  grandmother.&quot;  The  nurse  smiled  at  them  and  told  them  to  go  ahead.  The  old  lady  lay  inert  in  her  white  bed,  her  thin  hair  damp  and  yellowish  against  the  pillow.  James'  father  held  her  hand  and  spoke  softly  to  her,  but  she  didn't  answer.  Her  eyes  were  closed.  She  didn't  know  anybody.  Sometimes  she  had  spoken,  but  her  words  were  disjointed  and  incoherent.  Now  she  neither  spoke  nor  moved.  James  watched  his  father  grow  quiet  and  sad  as  the  slow  minutes  passed.  The  small  room  was  too  hot.  smelled  of  sickness.  The  voices  of  boys  playing  tennis  in  the  park  came  faintly  to  them.  James  was  glad  when  it  was  time  to  leave.  His  father  drove  furiously  out  of  the  car  park,  showering  the  neat  red  gravel  behind  the  wheels  of  the  car. He  spun  the  big  car  roughly  through  Redmond  Corner,  his  tires  protesting.  It  was  always  like  this.  He  always  left  the  nursing  home  in  a  rage  of  frustra-  tion,  in  an  agony  over  his  mother's  decay.  James  tapped  his  father's  knee.  &quot;Too  fast,  Dad,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You'll  get  a  ticket.&quot;  His  father  braked,  but  said  nothing.  For  several  miles  he  drove  carefully  down  the  road,  heavy  now  with  after-  noon  traffic-the  cars  of  businessmen,  files  of  trucks  taking  their  loads  around  Oxford  to  Southampton.  &quot;'You  see  what  we  come  to,&quot;  he  said  at  last,  as  if  he  were  very  tired.  &quot;You  see  what  time  brings  us  to.  We  lie  insensiblein  strange  rooms,  not  knowing  we  are  alive.  The  tyranny  of  the  breath  keeps  us  going.  Your  grand-  mother  has  committed  the  crime  of  growing  too  old.&quot;  James  had  known  these  moods  be-  fore.  He  sat  athis  father's  side  and  waited  for  him  to  recover.  He  did  not  understand  his  father's  anger  and  im-  potence.  It  was  natural  to  grow  old,  natural  for  the  body  to  wither  and  break;  it  was  common  mortality,  the  human  condition.  He  wished  very  much  for  some  comfort  to  bring  back  his  usual  ebullient,  unpredictable  fa-  ther.  They  stopped  at  the  traffic  lights  near  the  Queen's  [REDACTED].  &quot;Tell  me,  Holmes,&quot;  James  said  to  his  father,  &quot;what  do  you  make  of  that  old  lady  on  the  other  side  of  the  road  dressed  in  black?&quot;  It  was  an  old  game  of  theirs,  although  they  had  not  played  it  for  a  long  time.  His  father's  head  jerked  about,  his  long  neck  stiff-like  an  old  heron  stalking  a  frog.  He  was  smiling.  &quot;Ah,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;you  mean  the  retired  Irish  parlormaid,  Watson?  With  a  ne'er-do-well  son  in  the  Army  and  a  pipe-smoking  husband?&quot;  &quot;Holmes,&quot;  James  said,  &quot;you  as-  " b"tound  me!  How  on  earth  did  you  gather  that  information?  Do  you  know  the  woman?&quot;  &quot;Never  saw  her  be-  fore  in  my  life,&quot;  his  father  said.  &quot;But  you  know  my  methods,  Watson.  I  knew  she  was  a  parlormaid  be-  cause  her  right  arm  is  six  inches  longer  than  her  left-the  re-  sult,  Watson,  of  many  years  of  carrying  heavy  buckets  of  coal  to  the  upstairs  parlors  in  which  her  employ-  ers  sat.&quot;  James  laughed,  turn-  ing  in  hisseatto  look  at  his  father.  &quot;Good  gracious,  Holmes,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  do  astound  me.  Go  on.&quot;  &quot;A  mere  nothing,&quot;  his  father  said.  &quot;I  know  she  is  retired  because,  apart  from  her  evide  maturity,  she  would  now  be  about  so  early  in  the  evening  were  she  still  employed.  And  as  she  is  still  wearing,  although  St.  Patrick's  Day  is  long  past,  a  bunch  of  faded  sham-  rock  at  her  collar,  she  is  undoubtedly  Irish.&quot;  &quot;When  you  put  it  like  that,  Holmes,  it's  quite  simple,&quot;  James  said.  &quot;But  what  about  her  son  in  the  Army  and  her  pipe-smoking  husband?  I  have  you  there,  I  think.&quot;  &quot;Not  at  [REDACTED];  said  his  father.  He  was  well  into  the  game  now,  his  gloom  forgotten.  &quot;The  shamrock  is  fastened  to  her  coat  by  an  old  brooch,  on  which  the  word  'Mother'  is  clearly  to  be  discerned.  The  parcel  she  carries  is  addressed  to  a  private  in  the  infantry  named  McCarthy.  It  is  safe  to  assume  he  is  her  son.  That  he  is  a  ne'er-do-  well  is  evident  from  the  woman's  dress.  No  decent  son  would  allow  his  mother  to  go  out  so  shabbily  garbed.&quot;  &quot;Great,&quot;  James  said.  &quot;Pretty  good.  What  about  the  husband?&quot;  &quot;'That,&quot;  said  his  father  with  relish,  &quot;is  the  easiest  deduction  of  all.  Did  you  not  observe  that  the  woman's  clothes  are  spotted  all  over  with  tiny  burns,  small  marks  of  scorching?  They  prove  beyond  all  doubt  that  she  has  spent  many  years  in  the  close  vicinity  of  a  man  who  is  a  careless  pipe-  smoker,  undoubtedly  her  husband.&quot;  &quot;A  full  score,&quot;  said  James.  &quot;You  haven't  lost  your  skill.&quot;  His  father  took  the  car  past  a  row  of  parked  vehicles  outside  the  library.  &quot;Your  turn,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Tell  me,  Holmes,  what  do  you  make  of  the  sinister-looking  man  who  stands  out-  side  the  filling  station?&quot;  &quot;You  mean,&quot;  James  said,  &quot;the  ex-  sailor  who  subsequently  became  a  po-  liceman,  was  dismissed  for  taking  bribes,  and  now  earns  a  casual  living  as  a  gardener?&quot;  &quot;Holmes,&quot;  said  his  father,  &quot;you  as-  tonish  me.&quot;  THEY  ate  supper  together,  si-  lently,  contentedly,  and  afte.  -  ward  James  walked  in  the  garden.  The  evening  was  still  warm,  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Waddle  muttered  from  their  stream.  High  up,the  seagulls  were  trailing  their  irregular  columns  back  to  the  beach.  A  little  tatter  of  silk,  Oriental  in  its  brilliance,  had  blown  from  somewhere  onto  the  lawn.  James  bent  over  it.  It  was  the  kingfisher.  He  picked  it  up,  and  it  lay  dead  on  his  hand,  light  as  dust.  Its  head  rolled  loosely  of  its  own  tiny  weight,  as  if  its  neck  were  broken.  James  examined  the  short,  blunt  wings,  touched  the  dry  beak.  From  the  house,  his  father  began  to  sing.  &quot;Questa  0  quella,&quot;  he  sang,  his  voice  breaking  comically  on  the  higher  notes,  &quot;per  me  pari  sono.&quot;  James  held  the  dead  bird  on  his  open  palm.  He  carried  it  to  the  long  grass  beneath  the  maple  tree  in  the  corner  of  the  garden.  He  placed  the  bird  in  the  dark  grass  behind  the  tree  and  stood  above  it,  rubbing  his  hands  together  briskly.  He  would  not  tell  his  father  about  the  kingfisher,  not  about  its  vivid  morning  flight  across  the  garden,  not  about  its  small,  irrevocable  death.  He  would  spare  his  fatherthat  knowl-  edge."