 b"HOROWITZ,  in  charge  of  pur-  H  chasing  for  his  company  (a  small  but  prosperous  manu-  facturer  of  electronic  toys),  has  been  entrusted  with  thejob  of  buying  a  new  copier.  The  old  machine,  which  looked  unsurpassably  bright  and  mod-  ern  when  he  first  came  to  work,  four  years  ago,  is  not  only  banged  up  but  severely  outdated.  This  is  something  like  the  way  Horowitz-ten  years  out  of  college,  divorced,  nostalgic-feels  about  himself.  At  thirty-two,  he  is  not  exactly  a  relic,  yet  slowly,  gla-  cially,  his  widow's  peak  is  creeping  back  toward  his  pate  (he  now  combs  the  side  hair  over,  the  very  thing  he  used  to  make  fun  of  his  father  for  doing),  and  the  firmness  and  elasticity  of  body  and  spirit  that  the  day  before  yesterday  seemed  a  given,  a  birthright,  have  begun  to  yield  to  something  else.  Not  outright  ruin,  of  course,  but  a  kind  of  slow  softening.  Nothing  seems  quite  so  urgent  anymore,  and  the  weeks  from  paycheck  to  paycheck  melt  into  each  other,  justas  his  belly  has  begun  to  melt  forward,  its  once  taut  boundary  with  the  outer  world  start-  ing  to  blur.  The  copiers  in  the  shiny  brochures  that  flood  across  his  desk  resemble  spaceships,  built  to  go  someplace  Horowitz  will  never  see.  It's  the  same  way  with  the  cars  in  the  parking  lot  at  his  office  complex.  Horowitz  still  drives  the  green  M.G.  he  bought  the  year  after  he  left  school-a  purchase  both  hopeful  and  debonair,  meant  to  propel  him  into  the  world  in  style.  The  car  is  not  quite  in  disrepair  (he's  re-  placed  everything  in  it  at  least  twice),  but,  like  a  caricature  of  Horowitz  himself,  it  seems  to  be  moving  slow-  ly  and  inevitably  toward  obsolescence.  The  M.G.,  built  just  before  the  oil  embargo,  roars  and  belches  like  an  old  lion  now,  and  lately  has  begun  to  gulp  both  gas  and  oil.  But  Horowitz  can't  bring  himself  to  buy  one  of  those  new  rodent  machines,  with  their  tiny,  high-pitched  engines  that  click  and  whine,  and  sip  instead  of  gulp.  Just  as  he  can't  bring  himself  to  replace  his  almost  perfectly  good  stereo  simply  be-  cause,  next  to  these  new  compact  jobs  with  matte-black  finish  and  pulsing  sine-wave  displays  and  LED  digital  readouts  all  over  the  front,  it  looks  like  a  cathedral-model  Philco.  Just  as  he  can't,  somehow,  come  to  grips  with  this  task  of  replacing  the  company  copier.  The  face  of  the  new  age  is  familiar-there  is  no  avoiding  it-  yet  at  the  same  time  forbidding  and  slightly  alien;  Horowitz  sometimes  feels  he  is  in  one  of  those  science-  fiction  movies  where  people's  eyes  turn  to  cats'  eyes.  Still,  the  slick  brochures  keep  pouring  across  his  desk,  theold  copier  keeps  breaking  down.  The  peo-  ple  in  Horowitz's  office  mutter  at  him.  The  copier  repairman,  Steve  (he  looks  seventeen,  wears  a  tiny  gold  earring,  and  insists  on  calling  Horowitz  &quot;Mr.  H.&quot;  )-even  Steve  seems  to  be  nudging  Horowitz  toward  the  present.  Lately,  he  keeps  saying,  &quot;Time  to  upgrade,  Mr.  H.&quot;  So  it  is  that  one  morning-it's  March,  and  the  flat  white  light  outside  seems  a  light  ofstark  self-assessment  -Horowitz  throws  up  his  hands  and  calls  all  the  numbers  on  all  the  cards  attached  to  all  the  brochures  on  his  desk.  And  so  itis  that,  seemingly  within  minutes,  the  salesmen  begin  to  call  back.  Only  these  salesmen  aren't  men  at  all-every  last  one  is  a  woman.  N  they  start  to  filter  in  for  their  appointments,  Horowitz  observes  these  women  with  some  fascination.  They  are  all  roughly  five  to  ten  years  younger  than  he;  they  are  forthright  and  bold  and  clean,  invariably  short-  haired,  expertly  unflirtatious  yet  some-  how  not  entirely  unsexual  in  their  se-  vere  navy  or  charcoal  dress  suits,  their  white  silk  blouses,  each  with  a  touch-  ing  white  bow  at  the  neck.  Horowitz,  in  his  old  corduroy  jacket  and  desert  boots,  his  unruly  hair  emigrating  from  his  forehead  and  protruding  in  dis-  tinctly  un-eighties  wisps  over  his  ears,  stares  at  these  specimens  in  amaze-  ment.  He  thinks  briefly  of  the  young  women  of  his  generation-a  bar  of  Joni  Mitchell  plays  in  his  head-and  suddenly  he  feels  he  has  dropped  through  some  kind  of  time  warp.  These  young  women  of  the  present  speak  passionately  of  reduction  modes,  sorter  bins,  automatic  feeders,  electron-  ic  displays,  user-friendliness,  service-  response  time-all  the  while  engaging Horowitz  in  a  direct  eye  contact  that  has  no  ulterior  meaning  whatever.  Or  does  it?  As  his  eyes  weary  from  looking  back,  his  cheek  muscles  weary  from  smiling,  his  neck  muscles  weary  from  nodding  (these  sales  calls  seem  to  de-  mand  an  atmosphere  of  constant,  al-  most  religious  agreement)-as  his  mind  wanders  away  from  the  relentless  flow  of  data-Horowitz,  almost  by  way  of  defense,  begins  to  have  sexual  fantasies  about  the  young  saleswomen.  They  are  guilty  thoughts,  too,  for  Horowitz  is  an  old-fashioned  liberal  of  the  first  water,  his  mind  full  of  inter-  locking,  if  not  always  precisely  jibing,  principles.  Don't  these  women  (he  thinks)  have  the  right  to  be  seen  in  other  than  a  sexual  context'  Hasn't  history  taught  us  this,  or  at  least  lec-  tured  us  on  it?  He  feels  shameful,  boorish,  retrograde.  But  then  keeping  his  mind  on  the  business  at  hand  has  never  been  his  strong  suit.  Otherwise,  doubtless,  he  would  be  making  more  money  today.  In  his  mind's  eye,  these  enthusiastic,  authoritative,  direct  young  women  ca-  vort  and  disport,  wearing  nothing  but  their  mysterious  rings  (wedding?  en-  gagement?  pre-engagement?  or  merely  off-putting?)  and-kinky  touch!-  those  bows,  while  he,  Horowitz,  watches,  his  eyes  moist  and  wistful.  Watches?  Hasn't  he  been  asked  to  par-  ticipate?  He  squints  back  into  his  fan-  tasy.  No,  he  is  watching.  Perhaps  his  error  was-as  it  has  often  been  before  -in  waiting  for  an  invitation.  But  before  the  fantasy  has  a  chance  to  play  itself  out  he  finds  himself  standing  and  shaking  the  firm,  dry  hand  of  the  all  too  real  young  woman  before  him  (she  has  dandruff  on  her  shoulder-he  has  the  urge  to  reach  out  and  brush  it  off  ),  hearing  himself  promise  to  call  her  soon  (this  is  somehow  more  for  his  own  benefit-to  alleviate  his  guilt  at  having  cast  her  in  his  scenario-than  for  hers).  Horowitz  escorts  her  out  of  the  conference  room,  all  business;  but  then,  inevitably,  as  she  opens  the  door  for  herself  he  catches  himself  glancing  at  her  blue-suited  behind.  To  punish  himself,  he  spends  the  rest  of  the  morning  doing  invoices.  LATER  on  in  the  month,  Horowitz  creates  a  cost-analysis  chart  for  the  seven  machines  he  has  considered.  He  works  directly  on  a  borrowed  video  terminal.  It  is  after  five,  and  the  rest  of  the  office  has  gone  home.  He  likes  this  time  of  day:  the  silence,  the  slight  loneliness  are  reminiscent  of  staying  " b"late at  school.  The  orderly  dance  of  the  black  electronic  letters  and  figures  on  the  amber  screen  pleases  him  in  some  deep  way-not  unlike  the  way  cartoons  on  TV  used  to  please  him  when  he  was  growing  up,  back  in  the  prehistoric  fifties.  Back  before  any  of  the  young  saleswomen  were  born,  he  thinks,  with  a  half-satisfied,  half-rue-  ful  smile.  The  equinox  has  come,  and  now  at  the  end  of  the  work  day  there  is  an  extra  dollop  of  light.  Horowitz  sits  cozily  in  this  light,  which  mixes  pleas-  antly  with  the  wash  of  the  fluorescent  tubes  overhead  and  the  orange  glow  of  the  screen.  The  tinted  thermal  glass  of  Horowitz's  office  looks  out  over  the  office-complex  pond  and  a  little  stand  of  woods.  Once,  in  the  middle  of  win-  ter,  a  large  buck  came  crashing  out  through  the  trees  and  ran  for  all  he  was  worth  across  the  parking  lot,  among  the  Rabbits,  while  Horowitz  looked  on,  openmouthed.  Now,  how-  ever,  the  scene  outside  the  window  is  quiet:  the  blue-white  mercury  lights  have  just  flickered  on  in  the  almost  empty  parking  lot;  the  horizon  is  the  same  color  as  his  terminal  screen.  On  the  chart  on  the  screen,  the  names  of  the  seven  different  copiers  he  is  consid-  ering  are  in  vertical  array  down  the  left  axis;  across,  from  left  to  right,  are  their  various  features  and  costs.  Horowitz  is  proud  of  this  chart.  It  makes  him  feel  he  has  come  to  terms  with  technology.  In  his  imagination,  though,  there  is  an  alternative  chart:  vertically  along  the  left  side  are  the  names  of  the  saleswomen  who  have  come  to  see  him,  while  across,  from  left  to  right,  are  their  various  charac-  teristics:  Eyes  (Color,  Affect),  Hair,  Size  of  Hands,  Rings,  Fragrance,  Other.  Horowitz  sighs  as  he  comes  back,  unavoidably,  to  reality.  The  data  are  all  there  on  the  screen,  and  the  deci-  sion,  though  close,  is  clear.  The  ma-  chine  he  must  choose,  by  all  that  is  logical,  goes  with  the  homeliest,  the  briskest  saleswoman  of  all.  Naturally.  Horowitz  remembers  her  well:  she  was  also  the  most  assured  of  all,  and  for  good  reason.  She  seemed  not  a  suppli-  ant  but  a  teacher.  Raising  one  imperi-  ous  eyebrow,  she  spoke  to  him  as  though  he  were  in  the  third  grade.  Her  hands  were  frighteningly  large.  The  phone  rings.  Horowitz  jumps.  He  hears  this  same  phone  ring  constantly  all  day,  but  now,  at  twenty  to  six,  it  has  the  force  of  something  in  a  dream-isolated,  overportentous.  Surely,  at  this  time  of  day,  a  wrong  number.  He  listens  to  the  ring  again,  calming  down,  then  picks  up  the  receiver.  &quot;Mr.  Horowitz?&quot;  a  female  voice  says.  (\xe2\x80\x98Yes?\xe2\x80\x99,  &quot;'This  is  Lynn,  from  Akawa?&quot;  Horowitz's  heart  catches.  He  re-  members:  large,  sad  eyes;  mole  on  the  upper  lip;  clipped,  boyish  hair;  small  hands,  with  tiny  nails;  no  rings;  faint  smell  of  Lifebuoy.  The  machine  she  was  pushing  was  sufficiently  futuristic,  but  lacked  apower-saver  switch-a  feature  several  of  theotherstouted  as  crucial.  Something  in  her  requisite  spiel  stare  seemed  aware  of  this,  also  seemed  not  entirely  comfortable  with  what  she  was  saying.  Horowitz  sud-  denly  remembers  that  her  nails  were  bitten.  Or  has  he  made  this  up?  &quot;You're  working  late,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;So  are  you,&quot;  says  Horowitz.  &quot;Actually,  I  was  wondering  if  you've  come  to  any  sort  of  decision?&quot;  she  says,  in  a  brisk  yet  strangely  vul-  nerable  voice.  &quot;I  may  have,  yes,&quot;  he  says,  a  little  shocked  at  himself-he  sounds  co-  quettish.  &quot;I  hope  it's  a  good  decision,&quot;  she  says,  not  businesslike  at  all  but  really  hopeful.  And  in  that  moment  Horowitz  is  lost,  gone,  finished.  Yes,  yes,  he  tells  her-a  very  good  decision  indeed.  SMILING  slightly,  Horowitz  emerges  into  the  gigantic  out-  doors.  His  car  is  the  last  one  in  the  parking  lot.  He  inhales  deeply.  With  winter  going  or  gone,  an  entire  new  dimension  has  been  added  to  the  uni-  verse:  the  air  itself  has  a  rich  reso-  nance  it  didn't  have  a  month  ago,  as  if  the  sky  were  a  huge  bell.  Around  the  marshy  edge  of  the  pond,  back  near  the  woods,  peepers  are  peeping.  The  sunset  sky  is  streaked  wildly-melo-  dramatically,  Horowitz  thinks,  with  a  suddentwinge  of  guilt  at  his  own  dramatic  gesture.  He  smiles  again.  The  subject  of  a  power-saver  switch  will  never  even  come  up.  For  once,  he  hasn't  waited  for  an  invitation.  He  has  seen  the  future,  and  invited  it  right  in.  He  stops  and  stares.  In  the  brown  half-light  at  the  edge  of  the  woods,  a  herd  of  deer  are  feeding. "