 b"FRANKLIN  the  street  that  Fran  like  a  vein  through  most  of  my  dreams  and  nightmares,  the  stretch  of  territory  I  automatically  en-  visioned  when  someone  said  &quot;neigh-  borhood,&quot;  lay  in  a  [REDACTED]  sub-  urb.  The  town  was  green  and  pretty  but  had  the  constrained,  slightly  un-  real  atmosphere  of  a  colony  ora  for-  eign  enclave;  that  was  because  the  peo-  ple  who  owned  the  rambling  houses  behind  the  shrubbery  were  black.  For  them-doctors,  ministers,  teachers  who  had  grown  up  in  [REDACTED]  row  houses-the  lawns  and  tree-lined  streets  represented  the  fulfillment  of  a  fantasy  long  deferred,  and  acted  as  a  barrier  against  the  predictable  cruelty  of  the  world.  Franklin  Place  began  at  the  white  stucco  walls  of  the  Swim  Club,  con-  structed  by  neighborhood  parents  for  their  children,  who  couldn't  swim  elsewhere,  and  it  ran  three  tranquil  blocks  downhill  to  intersect  the  traffic  of  Marymount  Lane,  a  road  that  trav-  elled  through  Brandywine  country  into  [REDACTED].  Sometimes  in  summer,  when  I  listened  to  the  cicadas  striking  upfrom  tree  to  tree,  down  the  street  and  into  the  valley,  I  would  imagine  following  that  rasping  chorus  as  it  headed  south,  flying  fast  over  shopping  centers,  split-level  developments,  cit-  ies,  and  farms  until  I  reached  the  per-  ilous  region  below  the  Mason-Dixon  Line-the  region  my  parents  had  told  me  held  a  sad  and  violent  heritage  for  little  girls  like  me.  Beyond  a  self-con-  scious  excitement  when  I  heard  this,  I  had  no  idea  of  what  they  meant.  For  as  long  as  I  could  remember,  the  civil-  rights  movement  had  been  unrolling  like  a  dim  frieze  behind  the  small  pleasures  and  defeats  of  my  childhood;  it  seemed  dull,  a  necessary  burden  on  my  conscience,  like  good  grades,  or  hungry  people  in  496e646961.  My  occasional  hair-raising  reveries  of  venturing  into  the  netherworld  of  [REDACTED]  or  Ala-  bama  only  added  a  voluptuous  edge  to  the  pleasure  of  eating  an  ice-cream  cone  while  seated  on  a  shady  curb  of  Franklin  Place.  [REDACTED]  July  morning,  my  best  friend,  Lyn  Yancy,  and  I  were  playing  a  great  new  game  in  the  middle  of  our  street.  The  game  involved  standing  about  twenty  feet  apart  and  whacking  a  large,  bouncy  red  rubber  ball  back  and  forth  with  a  pair  of  old  golf  irons  that  belonged  to  Dr.  Yancy.  Most  of  our  time  was  spent  chasing  the  red  ball,  which  had  an  eccentric  willof  its  own.  Each  retrieval  was  an  adven-  ture-from  the  stand  of  bamboo  in  the  corner  of  Reverend  Phipps'  yard  (counting  my  father,  three  ministers  lived  on  the  block);  from  the  hazard-  ous  green  slope  in  front  of  the  Pink-  stons'  house,  patrolled  by  a  nasty  little  Scottie  named  Pattycake;  from  the  pyr-  acantha  hedge  in  front  of  the  house  where  the  Tate  twins  lived,  tough  sixth-grade  boys  who  sometimes  ex-  torted  Sugar  Babies  from  Lyn  and  me  up  at  the  Swim  Club.  It  was  high  midsummer,  the  season  that  is  unimaginable  when  you  are  twining  your  ankles  around  the  legsof  astraight-backed  chair  in  school.  All  that  week  the  sky  had  been  a  fine  clear  blue,  and  the  heat  stopped  you  flat,  like  a  wall,  if  you  were  coming  out  of  a  cool  house.  Back  yards  were  redolent  of  the  raw,  troubling  odor  of  tomato  vines,  and  the  colony  of  black  ants  among  the  dusty  petunias  on  the  slope  near  the  train  station  had  grown  into  an  overcrowded  pueblo.  If  you  wore  cotton  socks  with  your  sneakers  and  went  around  riding  a  bike  and  hang-  ing  from  tree  branches  all  day  and  you  didn't  go  swimming,  when  you  took  off  your  clothes  at  night  your  legs  would  be  coated  with  a  layer  of  the  outdoors  that  ended  abruptly  where  your  socks  had  been,  and  your  mother  would  say,  &quot;Run  a  tepid  bath  and  scrub  those  legs  and  show  them  to  me  before  you  even  get  near  the  sheets.&quot;  Lyn  and  I  whacked  the  red  ball  and  screeched  at  each  other  and  danced  up  and  down  the  street  with  the  spidery  gaitof  little  girls  who  are  rap-  idly  growing  taller.  We  were  both  seven  years  old,  and  looked  enough  like  sisters  to  pretend  it  almost  constantly-two  light-  bodied,  light-skinned  little  col-  ored  girls,  with  our  frizzy  hair  in  braids  that  our  mothers  had  bound  into  coronets  because  of  the  heat.  It  was  fun  to  run  on  the  broad,  newly  paved  street  that  looked  like  a  leafy  tunnel  crisscrossed  with  shafts  of  greenish  sunlight.  We  were  playing  mainly  in  front  of  Lyn's  house,  which  was  big,  made  of  stone  with  mica  in  it,  andhad  a  grape  arbor  and  a  fascinating  garage  that  the  previous  owner  had  left  filled  with  stacks  of  Scandinavian  nudist  magazines.  Occasionally,  we  paused  in  our  game  as  neighbors  pulled  in  or  out  of  their  driveways.  There  was  Judge  Ramsgannett,  plump,  brown,  and  sil-  ver-haired  in  his  big  black  car;  Lyn's   mother,  the  dreamy-eyed  Mrs.  Yancy,  on  her  way  to  the  A.  &amp;  P.in  a  creaky  yellow  station  wagon;  Freddie  Mon-  roe,  a  college  junior,  in  a  little  green  sports  car  that  seemed  to  Lyn  and  me  to  be  the  final  word  in  sophistication.  After  a  while,  wiping  our  sweaty  faces,  we  sat  down  on  the  curb.  We  started  talking  about  ponies,  and  about  a  scheme  I  had  to  package  the  mulber-  ries  that  grew  on  a  tree  in  my  back  yard  and  sell  them  to  the  patients  at  a  nearby  hospital.  Lyn  thought  it  was  a  great  idea.  &quot;Charge  ten  cents  a  bag,  and  we'll  get  rich!&quot;  she  said,  and  hitched  up  her  shorts  to  scratch  a  mos-  quito  bite  on  her  thigh.  Down  the  street  came  Walter,  Lyn's  little  brother,  sucking  on  a  blue  Popsicle.  &quot;Hey,  Walter,  where'd  you  get  the  Popsicle?&quot;  I  called.  &quot;Good  Humor,&quot;  murmured  W  alter,  slurping.  He  was  a  sturdy-legged  boy  of  five,  who,  with  his  bulging  brow  and  protuberant  light-brown  eyes,  looked  a  little  like  a  baby  dolphin.  The  Popsicle,  dissolving  in  the  heat,  had  left  a  trail  of  purple  splotches  down  the  front  of  his  Woody  Woodpecker  T-shirt.  He  stopped  and  regarded  us  warily.  &quot;Give  us  a  bite,&quot;  said  Lyn.  &quot;No!&quot;  cried  Walter,  jumping  as  if  he'd  received  an  electric  shock.  He  stuck  out  his  bluish  tongue  at  us  and  ran  toward  the  house,  hopping  over  the  two  bicycles  that  we'd  left  in  the  driveway.  &quot;I'm  gonna  tell  Mom  you  were  eat-  ing  before  lunch!  And  don't  you  dare  drink  from  the  hose  again!&quot;  Lyn  shouted  after  him.  &quot;He  drinks  from  the  hose  and  gets  his  clothes  disgust-  ingly  wet,&quot;  she  explained  to  me.  &quot;Disgusting&quot;  was  one  of  Lyn's  favorite  words;  just  say-  ing  it  filled  her  with  such  glee  that  she  lay  back  on  the  grass  beside  the  curb  and  waved  her  thin  legs  in  the  air.  I  flopped  back  beside  her  and  lay  staring  up  into  the  branches  of  the  big  sugar  maple  that  stood  in  the  Yancys'  front  yard.  It  was  almost  noon,  and  the  sun  overhead  struck  straight  down  through  the  green  maple  leaves,  making  discs  of  light  that  the  hot  breeze  shifted  over  our  faces.  In  the  treetops,  the  cicadas  were  going  wild,  stretching  their  harsh  note  up  into  the  arid  spaces  un-  protected  by  shade;  around  us,  near  and  far,  was  the  drone  of  a  dozen  lawnmowers.  I  was  thinking,  with  a  savoring  sort  of  delight,  that  soon  it  would  be  lunchtime-cream-cheese-and-jelly  " b"sandwiches,  I  hoped-and  that  in  a  few  weeks  my  brother,  mother,  father,  and  I  would  leave  for  the  cottage  we  rented  every  summer  at  the  beach  in  New  [REDACTED],  and  that  sometime-  not  too  soon-after  that  the  leaves  on  the  big  maple  would  turn  yellow,  and  Lyn  and  I  could  make  a  leaf  fort,  the  way  we  had  last  fall.  That  was  the  best  fun  of  all:  the  ring  of  leaves  heaped  up  so  high  it  seemed  like  a  castle  keep;  the  cold,  brilliant  sun  of  autumn  overhead;  the  smell  of  smoke  from  leaf  piles  burning  up  and  down  Franklin  Place;  and  the  two  of  us  gig-  gling  snug  and  protected  in  the  center,  our  hair  and  clothes  full  of  leaves.  UST  at  that  moment,  a  truck  turned  onto  Franklin  Place,  and  Lyn  and  I  jumped  up  to  get  a  look  at  it.  Trucks  were  unusual  on  our  street,  and  this  was  a  large,  battered  red  pickup,  its  dusty  hood  and  fenders  scarred  with  patches  of  rust.  It  carried  in  back  a  high,  tangled  mass  of  odd-looking  furniture,  which  turned  out  to  be  tables  and  chairs  knocked  roughly  together  out  of  pine  branches,  the  way  Lyn  and  I  sometimes  made  benches  for  our  dolls.  The  man  behind  the  wheel  had  dark  skin  but  was  not  a  Negro;  he  looked  a  bit  like  one  of  the  496e646961ns  we  saw  constantly  defeated  in  'TV  Westerns.  He  wore  a  green  plaid  flannel  shirt,  his  face  was  a  weathered  mass  of  cords  and  seams,  and  his  oily  black  hair  was  slicked  back  from  his  forehead.  Beside  him  was  a  woman  with  the  same  kind  of  ropy  brown  face,  and  in  the  back  of  the  truck,  perched  in  a  kind  of  niche  in  the  furniture,  rode  a  black-haired  boy  of  about  fifteen.  The  truck  slowed  and  stopped  beside  us.  &quot;Little  girls,  do  you  live  around  here?&quot;  the  man  called  out  to  us.  &quot;Right  down  the  street,&quot;I  said,  and  Lyn  pointed  silently  up  her  driveway.  The  woman  in  the  truck  opened  the  door,  climbed  out,  and  came  around  to  us.  Up  close,  we  could  see  that  her  black  hair,  pulled  back  in  a  rough  ponytail,  was  dyed  a  dry  red  at  the  front.  She  wore  a  long,  faded  yellow  skirt,  rubber  sandals,  and  a  gray  T-shirt  with  one  of  the  joke  mottoes  you  could  get  printed  at  the  Atlantic  City  boardwalk.  Hers  read  &quot;Siberian  Salt  Mines,&quot;  and  under  the  loose  gray  fabric  her  long  breasts  swayed  back  and  forth  in  a  way  in  which  our  mothers'  well-contained  bosoms  never  did.  There  was  something  frightening  and  wild  about  the  outfit,  and  about  the  woman  herself.  She  grinned  at  us,  and  we  saw  that  one  of  her  front  teeth  was  broken  in  half.  &quot;Is  this  neighborhood  all  colored  around  here?&quot;  she  asked,  in  a  voice  that  had  an  accent,  and  also  a  tinge  of  complaint  or  lament.  &quot;I  guess  so,&quot;  said  Lyn,  almost  whis-  pering.  The  woman  gave  a  harsh  chuckle.  &quot;It's  a  real  crime  for  colored  to  live  like  this,&quot;  she  said,  putting  a  hand  on  her  hip  and  looking  up  and  down  the  street  with  small  dark  eyesthat  had  the  same  glistening  brightness,  the  jumpy  intensity,  of  the  eyes  of  a  crow  that  had  once  alighted  for  an  instant  on  my  bedroom  windowsill.  She  said  a  rapid  phrase  in  aforeign  language  to  the  man  in  the  truck,  and  he  scowled  and  spat  heavily  into  the  street.  The  boy  in  the  back  of  the  truck  lifted  his  chin  and  stared  at  Lyn  and  me.  &quot;You  are  very  lucky  little  girls,&quot;  continued  the  woman.  &quot;Very  lucky,  do  you  understand?&quot;  &quot;We  understand,&quot;  I  said.  At  some  point  during  this  exchange,  Lyn  and  I  had  arranged  ourselves  side  by  side  and  were  holding  hands  tightly.     &quot;When  my  son  was  your  age,  he  never  got  to  play  like  you  girls  do,&quot;  said  the  woman.  &quot;He  had  to  work  hard;  so  do  I.  We  get  these  trees  from  down  in  [REDACTED],  and  then  we  make  the  furniture.  Two  times,  three  times  I  almost  lost  a  finger  from  the  saw.&quot;  The  man  inside  the  truck  said  something  sharp  to  her  in  the  lan-  guage  they  shared,  and  shequickly  gave  usa  broad  smile,  though  her  eyes  remained  the  same  avid  black  points.  &quot;Do  you  girls  think  that  your  parents  would  like  to  buy  some  furniture?&quot;  she  asked,  changing  her  voice  and  waving  her  hand  at  the  tangle  of  pine  in  the  back  of  the  truck.  &quot;It's  for  the  lawn.&quot;  &quot;You'll  have  to  ask  my  mother,&quot;  I  said,  staring  past  the  woman  to  the  place  where  the  man  had  spat.  On  the  smooth  gray  paving  of  the  street,  it  made  a  wet  circle  that  was  vanishing  fast  in  the  noonday  heat.  MANY  families  in  the  neighbor-  hood,  including  mine,  bought  furniture  from  the  people  with  the  red  truck.  Gypsies  was  what  they  were,  my  father  told  us  that  night  at  dinner,  shaking  the  ice  thoughtfully  in  his  glass  of  tea.  We  were  eating  roast  chicken  and  corn  on  the  cob  and  gar-  den  tomatoes,  a  magical  summer  menu,  and  the  air  from  the  kitchen  fan  was  making  my  mother's  hair  dance  above  her  face.  &quot;They  used  to  come  through  [REDACTED]  all  the  time  when  I  was  young,&quot;  said  Daddy.  &quot;Crowds  of  them.  First  in  wagons  and  then  in  big  old  cars.  They  were  tin-  kers-used  to  fix  pots.  It's  strange  to  see  them  doing  this  kind  of  work.&quot;  &quot;Do  they  steal  children?&quot;  I  asked  abruptly.  Beside  me,  my  brother  Matthew,  two  years  older  than  I,  gave  a  snicker.  &quot;They  wouldn't  want  you!&quot;  he  whis-  " b"pered,  poking  my  foot  with  his.  I  ig-  nored  him.  &quot;Gypsies  stealing  children  is  just  an  old  tale,&quot;  said  my  mother.  &quot;Sarah,  you  have  to  eat  all  the  kernels  on  the  cob,  or  else  you  won't  get  another  ear  of  corn.&quot;  &quot;'Those  Gypsies  just  seem  danger-  ous  to  have  around  the  neighbor-  hood,&quot;  I  persisted.  &quot;And  that  lady  said  that  it  was  a  crime  for  colored  to  live  like  this,  and  after  that  the  man  spit  in  the  street.&quot;  &quot;Spat,&quot;  corrected  my  mother  auto-  matically,  and  she  looked  over  at  my  father  with  a  wry  smile.  &quot;Well,  everybody's  got  ...  to  .  ..  feel  .  ..  better  ...  than  ...  somebody,&quot;  said  Daddy,  drawling  his  words  out  progressively  slower  until  they  were  as  slow  and  exaggerated  as  the  Uncle  Remus  record  we  had.  He  had  the  compressed  look  about  his  cheeks  that  he  got  whenever  he  was  about  to  tell  a  joke-one  of  the  complicated  civil-  rights  jokes  he  swapped  with  my  light-  hearted  Uncle  Freddie.  &quot;Most  of  the  world  despises  Gypsies,  but  a  Gypsy  can  always  look  down  on  a  Negro.  Heck,  that  fellow  was  right  to  spit!  You  can  dress  it  up  with  trees  and  big  houses  and  people  who  don't  stink  too  bad,  but  a  nigger  neighborhood  isstill  a  nigger  neighborhood.&quot;  &quot;James!  Stop!&quot;  said  my  mother  sharply,  and  Daddy  stopped,  though  he  kept  the  tight  look  on  his  face  for  the  rest  of  the  meal.  Matthew  and  I  kept  glancing  at  him  from  the  corners  of  our  eyes;  we'd  never  heard  him  talk  that  way  before.  After  dinner,  I  met  Lyn  down  at  the  Swim  Club.  It  was  the  nicest  time  of  day  to  swim,  when  the  parking  lot  was  almost  empty,  and  the  shadows  from  a  line  of  poplars  stretched  over  the  cool-  ing  grass.  While  adults  chatted  quietly  in  lawn  chairs  and  teen-agers  began  to  dance  to  sentimental  records  on  the  jukebox,  we  played  complex  under-  water  games.  Around  sunset,  the  pool  always  began  to  seem  a  mysterious  body  of  water  of  undefined  dimensions,  full  of  shadows  and  dim  corners;  when  we  lay  on  our  backs  and  floated,  looking  up,the  evening  sky  was  a  tender  blue,  and  the  odor  of  chlorine  over  every-  thing  was  a  strong,  beneficent,  healing  scent.  We  were  always  wonderfully  exhausted  after  these  swims,  lugging  our  damp  towels  home  in  deep  silence  through  the  darkening  cricket-lined  streets  as  if  the  power  of  speech  had  been  washed  out  through  our  pores.  That  evening,  as  we  walked  home  down  Franklin  Place,  we  heard  the  noise  of  an  engine  behind  us,  and,  looking  around,  were  surprised  to  see  the  red  truck.  The  stack  of  furniture  was  much  reduced,  and  the  dark-  haired  boy  was  standing  up,  leaning  on  the  back  of  the  cab.  The  truck  paused,  its  engine  chugging  like  a  train  engine  in  the  quiet  street,  and  the  woman  opened  the  cab  door  to  call  out  hello  to  usina  friendlier  voice  than  she  had  used  before.  &quot;You  went  swim-  ming,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Was  it  fun?&quot;  &quot;It  was  O.K.&quot;  I  said,  thinking  that  if  she  got  out  and  triedto  grab  us  I  would  run  up  the  nearest  driveway  and  pound  on  the  door  of  Mr.  Nansemond,  an  elderly  bachelor  from  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  who  grew  blue  hydrangeas.  &quot;You  girls  want  a  ride  down  the  street?&quot;  asked  the  woman,  and  when  we  said  no  she  gave  the  same  kind  of  harsh  chuckle  she  had  given  that  afternoon.  &quot;We're  going  to  drive  back  to  [REDACTED]  now,  so  goodbye  to  you.&quot;  She  slammed  the  cab  door,  and  the  truck  roared  off  into  the  darkness.  I  hugged  my  wet  towel  and  said  to  Lyn,  &quot;They  wanted  to  kidnap  us.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  no,  they  didn't!&quot;  said  Lyn     stoutly.  &quot;Don't  be  such  a  chicken.&quot;  But  she  looked  at  me  with  eyes  that  were  very  round  and  bright.  For  a  minute,  we  stood,  feeling  small  in  the  warm  summer  evening,  with  the  big  shadowy  trees  rustling  over  our  heads,  and  then  we  took  off  down  the  street  as  if  hobgoblins  were  pursuing  us.  We  gave  long,  shrill  panicky  whoops  as  we  ran,  and  we  didn't  stop  until  we  stood  safely  at  our  front  doors.  THE  next  morning,  I  took  a  look  at  the  lawn  furniture  my  family  had  bought  from  the  truck.  It  was  knocked  together  out  of  rough,  hairy  pine  logs,  with  a  lopsided  look  and  an  immediate  appeal  to  spiders  and  crawl-  ing  insects.  No  one  in  the  family  ever  sat  on  the  furniture,  and  my  mother  made  a  few  quips  about  the  &quot;Romany  spell&quot;  that  must  have  been  cast  to  get  her  to  buy  something  so  worthless;  in  the  winter,  my  father  chopped  it  up  for  firewood.  It  was  the  same  for  the  rest  of  the  neighborhood:  stories  of  the  ephemeral  tables  and  chairs  that  fell  apart  during  thunderstorms  or  barbe-  cues  became  standard  jokes  up  and  down  Franklin  Place.  As  for  me,  for  several  nights  in  a  row  I  woke  up  with  a  jolt  thinking,  Gypsies!  It  was  not  that  I  had  really  feared  being  stolen;  it  was  more,  in  fact,  that  they  seemed  to  have  stolen  something  from  me.  Nothing  looked  different,  yet  everything  was,  and  for  the  first  time  Franklin  Place  seemed  genuinely  con-  nected  to  a  world  that  was  neither  insulated  nor  serene.  Throughout  the  rest  of  the  summer,  on  the  rare  occa-  sions  when  a  truck  appeared  in  our  neighborhood  Lyn  and  I  would  dash  to  see  it,  our  hearts  pounding  with  perverse  excitement  and  a  fresh  desire  for  alarming  knowledge.  But  the  Gyp-  sies  never  came  back. "