 b"Offerings  may  be  made  by  prospectus  only.  This  is  neither  an  offer  to  sell  nor  a  solicitation  of  offers  to  buy.  T  his  is  an  enticement  emanating  from  a  office  with  a  massive  desk  and  a  five-line  telephone  and  a  splen-  did  view  of  the  harbor.  It  involves  a  high  degree  of  risk,  and  is  quite  beyond  the  means  of  those  who  cannot  afford  a  total  loss.  AFTER  an  hour's  search  in  the  vicious  Vegas  sun,  Verdi  scorched  his  hands  on  the  black  rental  Zephyr  that  fit  his  keys.  He  opened  the  door  and  then  climbed  onto  the  hood  and  waved  across  the  vast  lot  to  Drake,  who  had  been  searching  D-9,  10,  and  11.  In  Drake's  Landmark  suite  Verdi  scraped  a  motel  ballpoint  against  motel  stationery  but  got  no  result.  Drake  offered  a  Rapidograph;  Verdi  produced  a  flowchart,  then  a  cost  curve,  then  a  profit  curve.  This  last  was  hyperbolic,  sweeping  gldd\xef\xac\x82y  upward  at  the  point  on  the  y  axis  labelled  &quot;\xc2\xa91985.&quot;  Drake  went  down  the  hall  for  Tab,  smiling  absently  at  the  boisterous  conven-  tioneers  still  wearing  their  Computer  Congress  badges.  Marketing  will  be  key,  he  thought.  Back  in  the  suite  he  spoke  three  words:  &quot;Inference  Engines,  Incorporated.&quot;  [See:  &quot;BUSI-  NESS&quot;  ]  Drake  pitched  the  nascent  firm  to  anyone  who  would  listen  as  a  synergy  of  the  three  fundamental  forces  propel-  ling  the  world  into  an  information  epoch.  It  was  a  niche  you  could  park  a  Mercedes  in,  but  the  first  round  of  venture  financing  took  four  months.  They  had  to  deal  with  arrogant  young  M.B.A.s  who  discussed  ownership  not  in  percentages  but  in  casual  fractions.  Finally  a  hawk-faced  pharmaceuticals  heiress  took  Drake  under  her  wing  and  provided  funds  for  a  decent  slide  show.  Verdi's  profit  curve  was  dis-  played  in  three  dimensions,  which  en-  abled  the  venture  capitalists  to  get  a  handle  on  the  timeframe.  Proposals  and  certified  checks  began  to  arrive  in  big,  red-white-and-blue  envelopes  marked  &quot;Extremely  Urgent.&quot;  The  second  round  took  two  weeks,  the  third  only  a  few  minutes  because  ev-  eryone  was  on-line  by  then.  For  the  announcement  Drake  booked  Windows  on  the  World,  spec-  ifying  the  Cornish  game  hens,  a  [REDACTED]  zinfandel,  and,  at  the  in-  vestment  bankers'  table  only,  eau-de-  vie  de  marc  brandy.  Verdi  meanwhile  was  frantic  in  Cupertino,  using  instant  coffee  and  hastily  scribbled  option  chits  to  keep  his  development  team  awake  night  after  night.  There  was  a  nineteen-year-old  database  technician  who  owned  a  theoretical  sixty  thou-  sand  shares.  Verdi  hoped  to  buy  him  out  with  a  bucket  of  Z-80  micro-  processors  and  a  couple  of  passwords  picked  up  at  the  [REDACTED].  If  that  proved  impossible,  L.E.I.'s  stock  would  be  mighty  thin  soup.  [See:  \xc2\xabDILUTION'  ]  In  New  York,  Drake  marshalled  modifiers:  &quot;quantum,&quot;  &quot;exponential,&quot;  &quot;paradigmatic,&quot;  &quot;literally,&quot;  &quot;epoch-  al.&quot;  When  no  more  words  came  he  thumbed  his  copy  of  &quot;In  Search  of  One-Minute  Megatrends&quot;  and  pic-  tured  himself  granting  interviews.  He'd  be  humble,  horse-sensical:  &quot;Stick  to  your  knitting.  When  it's  first  and  goal  with  no  time-outs  left,  don't  be  afraid  to  go  for  the  home  run.  Be  prepared  to  wear  a  lot  of  hats.&quot;  Verdi's  nights  got  tougher.  At  four  one  morning,  a  scruffy  symbolic  logi-  cian  trudged  in  to  report  that  the  pro-  totype  was  baffled  by  a  whole  class  of  implications-medium  to  long  term.  The  glitch  would  render  the  engine  virtually  useless  for  strategic  planning,  and  Verdi's  ears  burned  as  he  thought  about  the  cruel  banter  he'd  hear  from  former  Stanford  colleagues.  He  was  liable  to  end  up  on  the  front  page  of  the  second  section  of  the  Wall  Street  Journal-down  in  the  lower-left  cor-  31  ner,  with  the  rest  of  the  quacks.  He  pulled  a  scrap  of  printout  from  his  pocket,  issued  a  logician  another  eight  thousand  shares,  and  told  him  to  fix  it  in  software.  [See:  &quot;RISK  FACTORS&quot;  ]  On  announcement  eve,  Verdi  joined  Drake  at  a  high-altitude  restaurant  in  midtown.  The  dinner  was  marred  by  recriminations.  Verdi  didn't  like  the  feature  treatment  on  &quot;Eyewitness  News&quot;  and  was  furious  that  Drake  had  flattened  the  profit  curve.  Drake  replied  that  publicity  was  publicity,  and  that  the  institutional  types  were  bound  to  be  leery  of  anything  so  steep.  He  called  Verdi  an  academic.  When  he  learned  ofthe  many  option  chits  in  grubby  young  hands  he  turned  sullen  and  litigious.  Neither  slept  well.  At  Drake's  insistence  they  strolled  into  Windows  a  few  minutes  late.  The  swank  meeting  room  was  teeming  with  sell-side  analysts,  media  people,  tax  strategists,  and  hangers-on,  and  those  who  got  there  early  were  study-  ing  fat  I.E.I.  binders,  which  they  re-  fused  to  share.  They  applauded  after  each  slide,  and  during  the  brief  Q  &amp;  A  they  addressed  Verdi  as  &quot;Doctor.&quot;  When  Drake  held  the  shiny,  shoebox,  size  prototype  over  his  head,  a  hundred  flashes  lit  the  hall.  Time,  Inc.,  used  the  photo  in  three  publications,  along  with  snappy  language  about  tiny  chips  smarter  than  the  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff.  The  Joint  Chiefs  took  umbrage  but  placed  their  orders  anyway.  There  can  be  no  assurance  that  prod-  ucts  announced  to  date  will  prove  commercially  viable,  or  deliverable.  Inference  Engines,  Inc.,  remains  in  the  development  stage,  and  does  not  have  a  lot  of  money  on  hand.  |  See:  &quot;USE  OF  PROCEEDS&quot;  ]  There  has  been  no  public  market  for  the  common  stock  of  the  company,  but  that  is  about  to  change.  The  offering  price  will  be  arbitrarily  determined  by  the  company  and  the  underwriter,  and  is  not  expected  to  bear  any  relationship  to  earnings,  as-  sets,  or  any  other  recognizedstandard  of  value.  "