 b"DON'T  think  about  a  cow,&quot;  Matt  Brinkley  said.  &quot;Don't  think  about  a  river,  don't  think  about  a  car,  don't  think  about  snow.  ...&quot;  Matt  was  standing  in  the  doorway,  hollering  after  his  guests.  His  wife,  Gaye,  gripped  his  arm  and  tried  to  tug  him  back  into  the  house.  The  party  was  over.  Carol  and  Vernon  turned  to  wave  goodbye,  calling  back  their  thanks,  whispering  to  each  other  to  be  careful.  The  steps  were  slick  with  snow;  an  icy  snow  had  been  falling  for  hours,  frozen  granules  mixed  in  with  lighter  stuff,  and  the  instant  they  moved  out  from  under  the  protection  of  the  Brinkleys'  porch  the  cold  froze  the  smiles  on  their  faces.  The  swirls  of  snow  blowing  againstCarol's  skin  re-  minded  her-an  odd  thing  to  remem-  ber  on  a  night  like  this-of  the  way  sand  blewup  at  the  beach,  and  the  scratchy  pain  it  caused.  &quot;Don't  thinkabout  an  apple!&quot;  Matt  hollered.  Vernon  turned  his  head,  but  he  was  left  smiling  at  a  closed  door.  In  the  small,  bright  areas  under  the  street  lights,  there  seemed  for  a  second  to  be  some  logic  to  all  the  swirling  snow.  If  time  itself  could  only  freeze,  the  snowflakes  could  become  the  lacy  filigree  of  a  valentine.  Carol  frowned.  Why  had  Matt  conjured  up  the  image  of  an  apple?  Now  she  saw  an  apple  where  there  was  no  apple,  suspended  in  midair,  transforming  the  scene  in  front  of  her  into  a  silly  surrealist  painting.  It  was  going  to  snow  all  night.  They  had  heard  that  on  the  radio,  driving  to  the  Brinkleys'.  The  Don't,  Think-About-Whatever  game  had  started  as  a  joke,  something  long  in  the  telling  and  star-  Tonie  tling  to  Vernon,  to  judge  by  his  expression  as  Matt  went  onand  on.  When  Carol  crossed  the  room  near  midnight  to  tell  Vernon  that  they  should  leave,  Matt  had  quick-  ly  whispered  the  rest  of  his  joke  or  story-whatever  he  was  saying-  into  Vernon's  ear,  all  in  a  rush.  They  looked  like  two  children,  the  one  whispering  madly  and  the  other  with  his  head  bent,  but  something  about  the  inclinationof  Vernon's  head  let  you  know  that  if  you  bent  low  enough  to  see,  there  would  be  a  big,  wide  grin  on  his  face.  Vernon  and  Carol's  daughter,  Sharon,  and  Matt  and  Gaye's  daugh-  ter,  Becky,  had  sat  side  by  side,  or  kneecap  to  kneecap,  and  whispered  zet  that  way  when  they  were  children-a  privacy  so  rushed  that  it  obliterated  anything  else.  Carol,  remembering  that  scene  now,  could  not  think  of  what  passed  between  Sharon  and  Becky  without  thinking  of  sexual  inti-  macy.  Becky,  it  turned  out,  had  given  the  Brinkleys  a  lot  of  trouble.  She  had  run  away  from  homewhen  she  was  thirteen,  and,  in  a  family-counselling  session  years  later,  her  parents  found  out  that  she  had  had  an  abortion  at  fifteen.  More  recently,  she  had  flunked  out  of  college.  Now  she  was  working  in  a  bank  in  [REDACTED]  and  taking  a  night-school  course  in  poetry.  Poetry  or  pottery?  The  apple  that  reappeared  as  the  windshield  wipers  slushed  snow  off  the  glass  metamorphosed  for  Carol  into  ared  bowl,  then  again  became  an  apple,  which  grew  rounder  as  thecar  came  to  a  stop  at  the  intersection.  She  had  been  weary  all  day.  Anxiety  always  made  her  tired.  She  knew  the  party  would  be  small  (the  Brinkleys'  friend  Mr.  Graham  had  just  had  his  book  accepted  for  publication,  and  of  course  much  of  the  evening  would  be  spent  talking  about  that);  she  had  feared  that  it  was  going  to  be  a  strain  for  all  of  them.  The  Brinkleys  had  just  returned  from  the  [REDACTED],  where  they  had  gone  for  Gaye's  father's  fu-  neral.  It  didn't  seem  a  time  to  carry  through  with  plans  for  a  party.  Carol  imagined  that  not  cancelling  it  had  been  Matt's  idea,  not  Gaye's.  She  turned  toward  Vernon  now  and  asked  how  the  Brinkleys  had  seemed  to  him.  Fine,  he  said  at  once.  Before  he  spoke,  she  knew  how  he  would  answer.  If  peopledid  not  argue  in  front  of  their  friends,  they  were  not  having  prob-  lems;  if  they  did  not  stum-  ble  into  walls,  they  were  }  not  drunk.  Vernon  tried  \xc3\xa9:  hard  to  think  positively,  but  he  was  never  impervi-  ous  toreal  pain.  His  reflex  was  to  turn  aside  something  serious  with  a  joke,  but  he  was  just  as  quick  to  wipe  the  smile  off  his  face  and  sud-  denly  put  his  arm  around  a  person's  shoulder.  Unlike  Matt,  he  was  a  warm  person,  but  when  people  unexpectedly  showed  him  affection  it  embarrassed  him.  The  same  counsellor  the  Brink-  leys  had  seen  had  told  Carol-Ver-  non  refused  to  see  the  man,  and  she  found  that  shedid  not  want  to  con-  tinue  without  him-that  it  was  possi-  ble  that  Vernon  felt  uncomfortable  with  expressions  of  kindness  because  he  blamed  himself  for  Sharon's  death:  JUNE  4,  1984  he  couldn't  save  her,  and  when  peo-  ple  were  kind  to  him  now  he  felt  it  was  undeserved.  But  Vernon  was  the  last  person  who  should  be  punished.  She  remembered  him  in  the  hospital,  pretending  to  misunderstand  Sharon  when  she  asked  for  her  barrette,  on  her  bedside  table,  and  picking  it  up  and  clipping  the  little  yellow  duck  into  the  hair  above  his  own  ear.  He  kept  trying  to  tickle  a  smile  out  of  her-  touching  some  stuffed  animal's  button  nose  to  the  tip  of  her  nose  and  then  tapping  it  on  her  earlobe.  At  the  mo-  ment  when  Sharon  died,  Vernon  had  been  sitting  on  her  bed(Carol  was  backed  up  against  the  door,  for  some  reason),  surrounded  by  a  battlefield  of  pastel  animals.  They  passed  safely  through  the  last  intersection  before  their  house.  The  car  didn'tskid  until  they  turned  onto  their  street.  Carol's  heart  thumped  hard,  once,  in  the  second  when  she  felt  the  car  becoming  light,  but  they  came  out  of  the  skid  easily.  He  had  been  driving  carefully,  and  she  said  noth-  ing,  wanting  to  appear  casual  about  the  moment.  She  asked  if  Matt  had  mentioned  Becky.  No,Vernon  said,  and  he  hadn't  wanted  to  bring  up  a  sore  subject.  aAyE  and  Matt  had  been  married  for  twenty-five  years;  Carol  and  Vernon  had  been  married  twenty-two.  Sometimes  Vernon  said,  quite  sin-  cerely,  that  Matt  and  Gaye  were  their  alter  egos,  who  absorbed  and  enacted  crises,  saving  the  two  of  them  from  having  to  experience  such  chaos.  It  frightened  Carol  to  think  that  some  part  of  him  believed  that.  Who  could  really  believe  that  there  was  some  way  to  find  protection  in  this  world-or  someone  who  could  offer  it'  What  happened  happened  at  random,  and  one  horrible  thing  hardly  precluded  the  possibility  of  others  happening  next.  There  had  been  that  fancy  inter-  nist  who  hospitalized  Vernon  later  in  the  same  spring  when  Sharon  died,  and  who  looked  up  at  him  while  draw-  ing  blood  and  observed  almost  off  hand-  edly  that  it  would  be  an  unbearable  irony  if  Vernon  also  had  leukemia.  When  the  test  results  came  back,  they  showed  that  Vernon  had  mononucle-  osis.  There  was  the  time  when  the  Christmas  tree  caught  fire,  and  she  rushed  toward  the  flames,  clapping  her  hands  like  cymbals,  and  Vernon  pulled  her  away  just  in  time,  beforethe  whole  tree  became  a  torch,  and  she  with  it.  When  Hobo,  their  dog,  had  to  be  put  to  sleep,  during  their  vacation  " b"in  [REDACTED],  that  awful  woman  veterinarian,  with  her  cold  green  eyes,  issued  the  casual  death  sentence  with  one  manicured  hand  on  the  quivering  dog's  fur  and  called  him  as  though  their  dog  were  like  some  circus  clown.  &quot;Are  you  crying?&quot;  Vernon  said.  They  were  inside  their  house  now,  in  the  hallway,  and  he  had  just  turned  toward  her,  holding  out  a  pink  padded  coat  hanger.  &quot;No,&quot;&quot;  she  said.  &quot;The  wind  out  there  is  fierce.&quot;  She  slipped  her  jacket  onto  the  hanger  he  held  out  and  went  into  the  down-  stairs  bathroom,  where  she  buried  her  face  in  a  towel.  In  time,  she  looked  at  herself  inthe  mirror.  She  had  pressed  the  towel  hard  against  her  eyes,  and  for  a  few  seconds  she  had  to  blink  herself  into  fo-  cus.  She  was  reminded  of  the  kind  of  camera  they  had  had  when  Sharon  was  young.  There  were  two  images  when  you  looked  through  the  finder,  and  you  had  to  make  the  adjustment  yourself  so  that  one  superimposed  itself  upon  the  other  and  the  figure  suddenly  leaped  into  clarity.  She  patted  the  towel  to  her  eyes  again  and  held  her  breath.  If  she  couldn't  stop  crying,  Vernon  would  make  love  to  her.  When  she  was  very  sad,  he  sensed  that  his  instinctive  opti-  mism  wouldn't  work;  he  became  tongue-tied,  and  when  he  couldn't  talk  he  would  reach  for  her.  Through  the  years,  he  had  knocked  over  wine-  glasses  shooting  his  hand  across  the  table  to  grab  hers.  She  had  found  her-  self  suddenly  hugged  from  behind  in  the  bathroom;  he  would  even  follow  her  in  there  if  he  suspected  that  she  was  going  to  cry-walk  in  to  grab  her  without  even  having  bothered  to  knock.  She  opened  the  door  now  and  turned  toward  the  hall  staircase,  and  then  realized-felt  it  before  she  saw  it,  re-  ally-that  the  light  was  on  in  the  living  room.  Vernon  lay  stretched  out  on  the  sofa,  with  his  legs  crossed;  one  foot was  planted  on  the  floor  and  his  top  foot  dangled  in  the  air.  Even  when  he  was  exhausted,  he  was  always  careful  not  to  let  his  shoes  touch  the  sofa.  He  was  very  tall,  and  couldn't  stretch  out  on  the  sofa  without  resting  his  head  on  the  arm.  For  some  reason,  he  had  not  hung  up  her  jacket.  It  was  spread  like  a  tent  over  his  head  and  shoulders,  rising  and  falling  with  his  breathing.  She  stood  still  long  enough  to  besure  that  he  was  really  asleep,  and  then  came  into  the  room.  The  sofa  was  too  narrow  to  curl  up  on  with  him.  She  didn't  want  to  wake  him.  Neither  did  she  want  to  go  to  bed  alone.  She  went  back  to  the  hall  closet  and  took  out  his  overcoat-the  long,  elegant  camel's-  hair  coat  he  had  not  worn  tonight  because  he  thought  it  might  snow.  She  slipped  off  her  shoes  and  went  quietly  over  to  where  he  lay  and  stretched  out  on  the  floor  beside  the  sofa,  pulling  the  big  blanket  of  the  coat  up  high,  until  the  collar  touched  her  lips.  Then  she  drew  her  legs  up  into  the  warmth.  Such  odd  things  happened.  Very  few  days  were  like  the  ones  before.  Here  they  were,  in  their  own  house  with  four  bedrooms,  ready  to  sleep  in  this  peculiar  double-decker  fashion,  in  the  largest,  coldest  room  of  all.  What  would  anyone  think?  She  knew  the  answer  to  that  ques-  tion,  of  course.  A  person  who  didn't  know  them  would  mistake  this  for  a  drunken  collapse,  but  anyone  who  was  a  friend  would  understand  exactly.  In  time,  each  of  the  two  of  them  had  learned  to  stop  passing  judgment  on  how  they  coped  with  the  inevitable  sadness  that  setin,  always  unexpect-  edly  but  so  real  that  it  was  met  with  the  instant  acceptance  one  gave  to  a  snowfall.  In  the  white  night  world  outside,  their  daughter  might  be  drift-  ing  past  like  an  angel,  and  she  would  see  this  tableau,  for  the  second  that  she  hovered,  as  a  necessary  small  adjust-  ment. "