 b"THE  breakup  of  the  Momentist  movement  in  1962  in  St.  Paul  was  a  deliberate  decision  on  the  part  of  all  four  of  us.  We  were  sitting  in  Swedlund's  Drugstore  one  after-  noon  when  Patty  said,  &quot;It's  been  great  but-you  know,  it's  never  going  to  be  this  good  again,  soI  think  it's  time  we  said  goodbye.&quot;  So  we  all  left  town,  or  so  I  thought  until  last  Christmas,  when  I  saw  Ed's  book,  &quot;Once  There  Was  a  Time,&quot;  a  &quot;memoir&quot;  of  that  St.  Paul  scene-a  book  riddled  with  factual  errors,  a  be-  trayal  of  all  that  we  stood  for-and  I  read  on  the  jacket  that  he  now  owns  Swedlund's  (renamed  the  Scene  Shop),  where  he  has  &quot;preserved  the  atmosphere  of  Momentism  in  all  its  raw  brilliance  and  vitality.&quot;  So  a  few  weeks  ago,  on  my  way  out  to  the  Coast,  I  stopped  off  in  St.  Paul  to  see  for  myself.  I'm  not  naive.  I  realize  that  the  St.  Paul  scene  became  legendary  after  we  left,  that  any  number  of  artists  have  claimed  the  Momentist  mantle,  and  that  popular  mythology  links  our  movement  to  everything  from  rebirth-  ing  to  &quot;self-denial,&quot;  to  the  work  of  such  Incidentalistsas  Karen  Johnson  and  Charles  Shur,  to  the  grab  bag  of  the  New  Wave,  No  Wave,  Now  Wave,  and  Bye-Bye  movements  of  the  early  eighties.  I'm  well  aware  that  every  year,  on  May  14th,  thousands  assemble  in  Rice  Park  and  jump  into  the  fountain,  to  commemorate  an  eve-  ning  of  ours  in  1962.  And  I'm  not  surprised.  We  Momentists  fully  ex-  pected  to  be  misunderstood  and  ex-  ploited.  I  just  never  thought  it  would  be  done  by  one  of  us.  From  the  airport,  I  took  a  cab  to  our  old  block  on  Maple  between  Hyacinth  and  Sycamore,  and  I  couldn't  believe  my  own  eyes.  Three  restaurants  claim  that  we  met  there.  Two  of  them  weren't  even  in  business  in  1962!  The  Scene  Shop  is  the  third.  As  Swed-  lund's,  it  was  a  place  where  we  met  occasionally-but  not  where  they  say  we  did!  They  have  a  booth  roped  off  that  they  say  was  the  booth,  but  it  wasn't.  The  booth  was  in  the  front  by  the  window,  and  the  table  was  lino-  leum-covered.  This  one  is  butcher  block  and  they've  set  four  places  on  it.  (1)  We  never  ete  at  Swedlund's,  only  drank  coffee,  and  (2)  there  were  al-  ways  more  than  four  of  us-I  mean,  there  were  four  of  us,  but  some  of  us  usually  brought  a  friend.  Anyone  who  knows  squat  about  Momentism  can  see  this  joint  for  the  fake  that  it  is.  The  same  goes  for  the  Four  Friends,  the  Loft  Bar,  the  Momentary  Playhouse,  Les  Amis  Gallery,  and  all  the  other  tourist  traps.  None  of  us  were  playwrights  or  paint-  ers,  we  were  Momentary  artists.  Per-  manence  repelled  us.  Les  Amis  was  never  in  our  group.  And  yet  there's  Les,  cranking  out  the  same  old  trashy  collages  and  claiming  to  be  our  heir!  We  have  no  heirs.  We  left  nothing  behind  to  inherit.  That  was  the  point  of  it.  What  a  dismal  sight  it  is!  The  tony  restaurants,  the  antique  street  lights  and  paving  blocks  (all  new  since  '62),  the  same  dreary  street  singers  and  sidewalk  painters  you'll  find  in  the  Village  or  at  North  Beach  or  the  French  Quarter-a  scene  of  weary  decadence  where  once  we  four  were  briefly  young  and  hopeful,  all  artists  together  making  something  fresh  and  new  and  momentary.  Now  tourists  wander  in  a  carnival  that  claims  us  as  inspiration  for  the  cheap  goods  it  sells.  In  &quot;Once  There  Was  a  Time,&quot;  Ed  says  he  met  Patty  at  the  Four  Friends  on  the  northeast  corner  of  Maple  and  Sycamore.  He  offered  her  a  Camel.  She  had  never  smoked,  but  she  ac-  cepted  it  and  said,  &quot;I  am  going  to  smoke  one  cigarette  in  my  life.  Only  one.  That  way  I  will  always  remember  it.&quot;  That  led  to  Momentism.  Later  Patty  brought  in  Cheryl  and  Cheryl  brought  in  me.  Untrue.  We  four  met  on  April  21,  1962.  Patty  and  Cheryl  got  off  work  at  the  Flameburger  at  8  p.m.  and  went  to  Maple  and  Sycamore  to  catcha  bus  downtown  and  go  roller-skating.  I  was  at  the  bus  stop,  blowing  my  nose,  a  little  upset,  having  just  broken  up  with  my  girlfriend  Donna,  who  lived  at  1987  Hyacinth  and  whose  parents  forced  us  to  part  because  we  were  get-  ting  &quot;too  serious&quot;  and  they  couldn't  stand  the  sight  of  me.  I  had  gone  to  her  house  to  return  a  couple  of  photo-  graphs  ofher,  including  one  of  us standing  beside  her  dog,  which  she  tore  down  the  middle  and  gave  me  the  half  with  her  in  it  and  I  promised  to  keep  it  forever,  and  we  said  goodbye  and  cried,  and  I  walked  to  the  corner  for  the  bus.  Actually,  the  bus  I  wanted  was  the  westbound  Maple  bus,  but,  distracted  by  grief,  I  went  and  stood  with  the  two  girls  on  the  southwest  corner  of  Maple  and  Sycamore,  and  caught  the  eastbound.  One  of  them  asked  if  I  was  all  right.  We  talked.  We  sat  in  back,  on  facing  seats.  Ed  was  there.  He  sort  of  attached  himself  to  us.  I  thought  at  the  time  he  was  a  very  pushy  guy.  In  &quot;Once  There  Was  a  Time,&quot;  Ed  claims  that  the  trip  downtown  oc-  curred  much  later,  after  he  and  Patty  had  laid  the  groundwork  of  Moment-  ism,  but  in  fact  it  was  something  that  just  happened  among  us  three  even  before  the  bus  came.  We  started  fool-  ing  around,  just  kidding,  improvising  things,  and  suddenly  it  clicked.  We  all  knew  it.  It  was  not  any  one  thing  that  we  said,  and  it  wasn't  like  we  were  thinking,  &quot;Hey,  this  is  a  movement!&quot;-  it  happened.  We  got  on  the  bus  to-  gether,  we  got  off  downtown  at  Fifth  and  St.  Peter  (with  Ed  in  tow),  we  walked  around  for  several  hours  and  talked  a  lot  and  did  things,  and  then  we  said,  &quot;Let's  get  together  tomor-  row.&quot;  I  wish  we  hadn't.  Looking  back  on  it,  I  can  see  that  that  evening  was  the  high  point,  the  apotheosis  of  what  Momentism  was  all  about.  If  we  had  let  it  go  at  that  and  not  made  a  movement  out  of  it,  Momentism  would  have  been  purely  momentary,  but  as  it  is  Momentism  became  a  self-  contradiction-the  Moment  extended,  recalled,  amplified,  and  now  commem-  orated.  It's  a  shame.  PEOPLE  ask  me,  &quot;But  what  ex-  actly  was  said  that  night?  What  did  you  four  do?&quot;  That's  not  the  point.  It  was  a  feeling,  more  than  anything  spe-  cific.  We  were  young  and  had  fallen  together  accidentally  and  we  shared  a  feeling  that  this  was  a  brief  moment  in  our  youth  when  everything  was  iri-  descent  and  meaningful  and  charged  with  importance  in  a  way  it  would  never  be  again.  To  write  about  it,  however,  the  way  Ed  has  (&quot;The  street  lights  cast  great  cones  of  light  into  which  we  walked,  the  soles  of  our  shoes  clicking  certain  rhythmic  changes  that  excited  us,  and  we  saw  our  own  mystery  in  the  great  blank  darkened  windows,  a  mys-  " b"tery  of  unutterable  poignance  as  cars  swished  by  filled  with  persons  whom  we  would  never  see  again,  and  all  of  this  happen-  ing  on  a  night  that  we  would  never  know  again;  no  matter  how  much  we  might  wish  to  recapture  it,  its  es-  sence  was  fleeting  and  would  never  be  de-  scribed,  not  even  in  this  sentence&quot;),  is  to  make  it  trivial,  a  mo-  ment  similar  to  mo-  ments  in  other  people's  lives.  It  wasn't  similar  at  alll  It  was  unique  to  us,  and  we  knew  it.  A  moment  of  art,  perfect  and  com-  plete,  so  why  try  to  translate  it  in-  to  a  work  of  art  so  that  a  lot  of  jerks  could  look  at  that  and  say,  &quot;Oh,  yeah!  I  understand  what  you  felt  there!  It's  a  lot  like  my  own  life  in  a  way!&quot;  No,  it  wasn't.  They  don't  understand  at  all.  How  could  they?  Yes,  we  did  climb  into  the  fountain  in  Rice  Park  across  from  the  St.  Paul  Public  Library,  just  as  in  the  legend,  but  it  was  not  intended  to  be  a  legend  at  the  time,  it  was  only  something  we  did.  Patty  said,  &quot;There  will  never  be  another  night  exactly  like  this  one,so  let's  do  something  we've  never  done  before,&quot;  and  the  fountain  was  there  and  we  got  in-first  Patty  and  then  Cheryl  and  me,  and  finally  Ed,  who  thought  it  was  &quot;dumb.&quot;  (We  were  not  arrested,  as  Ed  says  now,  nor  did  he  take  off  hisclothes.  We  removed  only  our  shoes  and  stockings.  Nor  did  he  recite  Baudelaire.  None  of  us  recited  anything  or  made  any  reference  to  a  preexistent  work  of  art;  we  said  what  we  were  thinking  and  feeling  at  the  moment.)  I  don't  mind  that  every  year  during  Momentarily  Week  thousands  of  peo-  ple  jump  into  that  same  fountain,  but  I  wish  they  would  do  it  for  their  own  reasons  and  not  to  celebrate  something  that  happened  one  evening  twenty  years  ago.  If  ever  a  movement  resisted  celebration,  it  was  us  Momentists.  That  was  why  I  went  back  to  St.  Paul-to  repeatthe  message  that  the  world  has  misunderstood:  Not  Us  but  Yourself,  Not  That  but  This,  Not  Then  but  Now,  The  Answer  Is  Not  on  My  Face.  The  moment  is  gone,  now  is  the  moment.  We  are  gone,  we  will  come  back  in  a  moment.   I  didn't  have  the  heart  to  tell  them.  The  crowds  I  saw  milling  on  Maple  were  happy  to  think  that  the  cheap  imitation  of  Momentism  they  were  buying  was  the  genuine  article,  that  a  twelve-dollar  T-shirt  (&quot;ISpent  A  Moment  In  St.  Paul&quot;)  made  them  members  of  a  secret  society  of  finer,  more  sensitive  people,  and  that,  stroll-  ing  along  this  street,  drinking  burnt  coffee  in  a  room  with  burlap-covered  walls  and  fishnet  suspended  from  the  ceiling,  they  were  having  an  &quot;experi-  ence&quot;  of  a  sort  not  so  different  from  ours.  I  remembered  what  Patty  said  once  after  we  had  gone  swimming  at  midnight  and  then  sat  aroundon  the  riverbank  eating  doughnuts.  She  said,  &quot;Don't  tell  anybody.  Don't  say  any-  thing,  period.  Don't  ruin  it.&quot;  She  was  right.  It  was  Ed  who  ru-  ined  Momentism.  First,  he  insisted  on  writing  &quot;We  Were  Here&quot;  on  walls  and  sidewalks  with  a  piece  of  chalk,  then  he  started  taking  hands  off  clocks.  He  wrote  &quot;Now&quot;  on  his  fore-  head.  He  talked  to  reporters.  He  wore  strange  clothes.  He  developed  himself  into  a  celebrity,  a  walking  personal  appearance,  an  event.  Younger  people  started  following  him  around;  they  shopped  all  over  town  for  khaki  pants,  striped  short-sleeved  pullovers,  white  Keds,  black  horn-rimmed  glasses  exact-  ly  like  his.  He  looked  so  old  when  I  saw  him,  there  in  St.  Paul.  I  was  disgusted.  So  sallow,  flabby,  Histless.  He  sat  in  uni-  form  at  &quot;the  table&quot;  and  allowed  the  patrons  to  stare  at  him.  He  was  accus-  tomed  to  being  watched,  I  could  see,  and  it  had  destroyed  him.  The  Ed  I  knew  was  gone,  his  Edness  all  used  up.  I  couldn't  stand  to  look  at  him.     Thank  goodness  we  true  Moment-  ists  got  out  intact,  leaving  no  work  behind  to  be  gawked  at  and  eventually  become  dated  and  embarrassing  and  dull.  Everything  we  created  was  in  our  heads  and  among  us  three,  and  only  weknow  what  it  was,  and  so  it  exists  outside  of  time  and  form  and  will  be  forever  pure  being  justas  it  was  at  that  moment.  I  walked  away  from  the  former  Swedlund's  and  caught  a  cab  to  the  airport  and  wished  I  had  never  made  the  trip.  And  then  some-  thing  happened!  In  the  airport!  A  woman  in  black  was  sitting  at  the  shoeshine  stand-the  slapof  cloth-  a  dime  dropped!-a  plane  rose!  It  was  such  a  brief  thing,  actually  only  a  glimpse  of  something  distant,  fleeting,  and  so  graceful  that  when  it  was  gone  I  carried  the  image  with  me  to  the  Coast,  and  it  was  worth  going  to  [REDACTED]  to  see.  "