 b"ONE  day  last  August  after  the  vet  said  that  Biddy  had  only  months  to  live,  Willa  and  I  took  her  for  a  cruise  around  Lake  Larson  on  our  pontoon  boat.  She  was  listless  and  depressed  from  the  medica-  tion,  and  we  thought  the  ride  might  cheer  her  up,  but  she  sat  with  her  head  in  Willa's  lap,  her  eyes  closed,  and  when  a  flock  of  geese  flew  down  and  landed  alongside  the  boatshe  paid  no  attention.  I  felt  desolate  tosee  her  that  way,  and  angry  at  other  boats  zipping  around  without  a  care  in  the  world,  and  so  when  we  got  home  and  I  found  a  message  on  the  answering  machine  that  said,  &quot;Hi,  this  is  Blair  Hague  at  People  magazine,  and  I'd  like  to  come  to  [REDACTED]  and  do  a  piece  about  your  poor  dog,&quot;  I  was  relieved  to  know  that  someone  cared.  Willa  and  I  discussed  it  that  night,  and  although  she  felt  that  a  pet's  death  is  a  private  matter,  eventually  I  con-  vinced  her  that  we  should  agree  to  the  story  as  a  tribute  to  Biddy  and  also  because,  as  Blair  said  on  the  tape,  our  experience  might  help  others  who  were  going  through  the  same  thing.  Blair  arrived  on  Thursday  with  Jan,  a  photographer,  and  he  explained  that  they  wanted  to  live  with  us,  so  they  could  do  a  better  job.  &quot;You  get  more  nuance  that  way,&quot;  he  said.  He  had  lived  with  a  number  of  people  in  order  to  write  about  them,  including  Joe  Cocker,  Jean  Shepherd,  Merv  Griffin,  and  the  Pointer  Sisters,  he  said.  I  could  seehis  point,  so  they  moved  in,  andJan  set  up  a  darkroom  in  the  laundry,  which  was  fine  with  us  -one  thing  we  realized,  with  Biddy  dying,  was  that  we  didn't  have  many  pictures  of  her-and  Blair  got  to  work  gathering  background.  Willa  and  I  opened  up  our  scrapbooks  to  him  and  Willa  even  let  him  read  her  diary.  I  wondered  about  that,  butshe  said,  &quot;Honesty  is  the  only  policy.  There's  a  lot  about  Biddy  in  there.&quot;  We  lived  in  a  two-bedroom  condo-  minium  overlooking  Lake  Larson,  and  although  Blair  and  Jan  were  ex-  tremely  pleasant  and  helped  with  the  dishes  and  made  their  beds  and  kept  the  stereo  turned  down  after  ten  o'clock,  I  started  to  feel  crowded  after  a  few  days.  I'd  be  shaving  and  Blair  would  stick  his  head  in  the  bathroom  door  and  ask,  &quot;How  much  do  you  earn  a  year,  Earl?  Do  you  consider  yourself  a  religious  person'  Do  you  normally  wear  boxer  shorts?  Is  that  your  real  hair?&quot;  After  work,  when  I  like  to  sit  down  with  a  beer  and  watch  television,  he  sat  next  to  me.  How  would  I  de-  scribe  myself?  Had  I  ever  wanted  to  be  something  other  than  a  bus  driver?  How  much  beer  did  I  consume  per  day,  on  the  average?  Was  it  always  Bub's  Beer?  What  were  my  favorite  books?  What  was  on  my  mind?  What  did  I  think  of  the  future?  What  sorts  of  people  made  me  angry?  I  wanted  to  say,  &quot;People  who  ask  too  many  questions,&quot;  but  I  held  my  tongue.  I  did  mention  to  Willa  that  I  thought  Blair  was  pushy.  &quot;The  article  is  about  Biddy,  not  us,&quot;  I  said.  She  thought  Blair  was  doing  an  excellent  job.  She  said,  &quot;I  feel  like  he  is  helping  me  to  understand  a  lot  of  things  about  us  that  I  never  thought  about  before.&quot;  Soon  after  they  arrived,  we  noticed  that  Biddy  was  getting  better.  Her  ap-  petite  improved,  and  she  got  so  she  liked  to  go  for  walks  again.  I  told  Willa  I  thought  we  should  tell  Blair  that  there  was  no  story.  She  said,  &quot;'There's  a  lot  more  story  here  than  you  know,  Earl.  Biddy  is  just  the  tip  of  the  iceberg.&quot;  T'  wo  weeks  passed,  then  three,  and  Blair  wasn't  running  out  of  questions  to  ask.  He  kept  coming  back  to  the  subject  of  our  marriage.  &quot;Do  you  feel  you  have  an  excellent,  good,  average,  or  poor  marriage?  Do  you  regret  not  having  had  children?  How  many  times  per  week  do  you  have  sexual  rela-  tions?  On  the  average-just  a  ball-  park  figure.  Do  you  think  Willa  is  happy?&quot;   said,  &quot;You  ought  to  ask  her.&quot;  &quot;I  have,&quot;  he  said.  Rightup  to  the  day  they  left,  I  had  no  idea  he  was  going  to  write  the  sto-  ry  he  did.  Once,  he  said,  &quot;As  so  of-  ten  happens,  the  story  changes  as  a  reporter  works  on  it.  You  start  out  to  do  one  thing  and  you  wind  up  do-  ing  something  entirely  different.&quot;  I thought  he  was  referring  to  Biddy's  improvement.  THE  story  was  entitled  &quot;Earl:  My  Life  with  a  Louse,  by  Willa  Goodrich  as  told  to  Blair  Hague,  pho-  tographs  by  Jan  Osceola,&quot;  and  the  day  it  came  out  Willa  took  Biddy  and  moved  to  her  mother's.  I  wasn't  home  so  I  didn't  know  she  left.  I  was  driv-  ing  a  charter  to  New  Orleans.  Some  passengers  picked  up  People  in  Des  Moines,  and  as  I  drove  South  I  could  hear  them  whispering  about  me.  In  southern  [REDACTED],  a  man  came  to  the  front  and  crouched  down  in  the  aisle  beside  me.&quot;I  thought  youhad  a  right  to  know  this,&quot;  he  said,  and  he  read  me  some  parts.  I  couldn't  believe  the  stuff  Willa  said  about  me!  My  personal  grooming,  my  food  preferences,  my  favorite  TV  shows,  our  arguments.  And  her  referring  to  me  as  &quot;stubborn  and  unreasonable&quot;-why  would  she  say  that?  In  print!  In  New  Orleans,  I  discovered  that  the  man  had  skipped  some  of  the  worst  parts.  Willa  said  she  had  often  wanted  to  leave  me.She  said  that  I  was  uncar-  ing  and  cold,  that  Biddy's  illness  didn't  mean  &quot;beans&quot;  to  me,  and  that  I  had  talked  about  getting  another  dog  soon.  She  said  that  I  had  &quot;Victorian  ideas  about  women  and  sex.&quot;  She  said  I  was  often  personally  repulsive.  To  back  her  up,  People  printed  three  pic-  tures  with  the  story:  me  in  my  shorts,  bending  over  to  adjust  the  TV  picture;  me  with  my  mouth  open,  full  of  baked  potato;  and  me  asleep  on  the  La-Z-  Boy  recliner,  in  my  shorts,  with  my  mouth  open.  I  tried  to  reach  Willa  at  her  mother's,  but  she  was  in  New  York,  and  I  saw  her  the  next  morning  on  &quot;America,  How  Are  You?&quot;  Essen-  tially,  she  told  Monica  Montaine  the  same  stuff,  plus  she  said  that  I  was  &quot;compulsive.&quot;  She  said,  &quot;He  walks  around  humming  the  same  tune  over  and  over,  usually  'Moon  River'  He  taps  his  fingers  continuously,  and  he  taps  his  foot  in  his  sleep.  He  compul-  sively  rips  the  labels  off  beer  bottles.  And  at  dinner  he  always  eats  all  his  meat  first,  then  the  potato,  then  the  vegetable.&quot;  Monica  Montaine  got  a  big  kick  out  of  that.  &quot;Sounds  like  he's  missing  the  Up  button,&quot;  she  said.  Two  days  later,  someone  from  &quot;'Today&quot;  called  and  wanted  me  to  get  on  aplane  to  New  York  and  join  Willa  on  the  show  for  a  dialogue.  He  said,  &quot;I  think  the  country  would  like  " b"to  hear  your  side,  Earl.&quot;  I  told  him  I  had  no  desire  to  engage  in  a  public  debate  with  my  wife  over  matters  I  con-  sidered  personal.  Willa  did  the  show  herself,  then  a  number  of  other  daytime  shows,  and  though  I  made  a  point  of  not  watching,  my  friends  were  starting  to  ask  questions.  &quot;Is  it  true  about  the  almost  total  lack  of  any  attempt  at  communication?&quot;  a  guy  at  work  wanted  to  know.  &quot;And  you  wear-  ing  socks  in  bed-any  truth  to  that?&quot;  He  said  thestory  had  given  him  a  lot  to  think  about.  In  October,  Willa  testified  before  a  House  subcommittee,  revealing  new  details  about  our  marriage  under  oath.  Several  congressmen  ex-  pressed  shock  at  what  she  said  about  my  lack  of  affection,  my  &quot;utter  insensitivity&quot;  to  her  needs.  &quot;What  was  he  doing  all  this  time  while  you  were  suffering?&quot;  one  asked.  She  said,  &quot;He  watched  football  on  television.  He  played  seven  different  types  of  soli-  taire.  He  carved  a  new  stock  for  his  shotgun.  He  acted  like  I  didn't  exist.&quot;  That  was  the  quote  they  used  on  &quot;ABC  World  News  Tonight.&quot;  I  WAS  lonely  as  winter  approached.  I'm  not  a  manwho  can  live  by  himself.  Some  men  are  cut  out  for  the  single  life,  but  not  me.  So  I  told  my  boss  I  was  available  for  all  the  charters  I  could  get.  I  spent  November  and  De-  cember  mostly  on  the  road,  going  to  [REDACTED]  six  times,  [REDACTED]  four,  making  two  runs  to  San  Francisco.  Meanwhile,  I  read  in  People  that  Willa  had  sold  her  story  to  Universal  Pictures  and  was  in  [REDACTED]  ironing  out  some  wrinkles  in  the  deal.  The  next  week,  she  got  a  call  from  the  Pope,  who  expressed  hope  that  efforts  would  be  made  to  reach  a  reconcilia-  tion.  &quot;I'm  ready  any  time  Earl  is,&quot;  she  told  the  Holy  Father.  She  told  him  that  although  she  was  not  a  Catholic  she  respected  the  Church's  view  on  marriage.  &quot;It's  a  two-way  street,  though,&quot;  she  said. Finally,  we  met  in  New  York,  where  I  had  driven  a  four-day  &quot;New  Year's  Eve  on  the  Great  White  Way&quot;  tour  and  was  laying  low  at  the  Jaylor  Hotel,  and  where  she  had  rent-  ed  a  great  apartment  on  the  upper  West  Side  and  was  on  her  way  to  a  cocktail  party.  We  met  at  her  place.  It  was  in  a  new  building  on  [REDACTED],  with  a  beautiful  view  from  the  twenty-  fifth  floor.  Biddy  was  living  with  her,  of  course.  Biddy  looked  wonderful,  though  she  was  a  little  hostile  toward  me.  So  were  Willa's  three  friends,  who  worked  in  publishing.  &quot;What  do  you  do?&quot;  one  man  asked,  though  I  was  sure  he  knew.  The  other  man  mentioned  something  about  socks.  The  woman  didn't  talk  to  me  at  all.  She  kept  telling  Willa,  &quot;We've  got  to  get  going-the  invitation  said  five  o'clock.&quot;  Willa  kissed  me  goodbye.  &quot;Let's  be  friends,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Call  me  sometime.&quot;  I  did  call  her,  four  or  five  times,  and  we  talked,  mostly  about  her  projects-  she  was  writing  a  book,  she  was  being  considered  as  a  substitute  host.  We  didn't  talk  about  our  marriage  until  one  day  in  April,  when  she  mentioned  that  Biddy  was  sick  again,  and  she  said  she  missed  me.  Biddy  died  a  week  later,  and  Willa  brought  the  body  back  to  [REDACTED]  for  interment.  She  came  to  the  condo  for  dinner  one  night  and  wound  up  staying.  My  friends  can't  believe  I  took  her  back  after  all  those  things  she  said  about  me,  but  I  can't  see  where  it's  any  of  their  business.  I  told  her  there  was  no  need  for  her  to  apologize,  so  she  hasn't.  She  did  scrap  the  movie  project  and  the  book,  though.  The  substitute-  host  deal  fell  through  when  the  regu-  lar  host  decided  he  wasn't  so  tired  after  all.  Except  for  our  two  dogs,  Betty  and  Burt,  we're  almost  where  we  were  last  summer.  The  ice  has  melted  on  Lake  Larson,  the  lilacs  and  chokecherries  are  in  bloom,  soon  the  goslings  will  hatch  and  their  mothers  will  lead  them  down  to  water,  and  everything  will  be  as  if  none  of  this  ever  happened. "