 b"\xe2\x80\x9cISN\xe2\x80\x99T  it  a  pretty  world?&quot;  He  said  that.  &quot;Pretty  world.  Pretty  world.  Cat  got  your  tongue  still?  Look  who's  here.&quot;  I'm  here.  I  lived.  \xc2\xab&quot;Hello,  hello,  hello.&quot;  &quot;I'll  just  sit  here  with  my  precious  idiot.&quot;  (\xe2\x80\x98Oh.)\xe2\x80\x99  &quot;He  is  precious.&quot;  &quot;Isn't  he  adorable?&quot;  He  is  adorable.  &quot;The  rain  has  the  rightidea,&quot;  [REDACTED]  said,  &quot;it  falls  on  the  adorable  and  the  not-so-adorable  alike.  That's  the  way  to  do  it.&quot;  Momma  said,  &quot;I'll  answer  your  question,  Dorothy.  I'll  say  first  that  I'm  aware  that  not  everyone  con-  cerned,  and  ones  who  it  isn't  their  business,  approve  of  what  [REDACTED]  and  I  have  done.  What  I  want  to  ask  is,  we've  always  paid  our  own  way,  and  we've  done  our  share  of  good  around  here,  believe  me,  and  I  will  say  it,  although  I  shouldn't,  who  gives  us  the  credit  we  deserve?  Who  says  our  character's  beyond  reproach?  Who  comes  right  out  and  says  we're  good  people?  Ask  yourself  why  don't  people  applaud  when  a  woman  like  me  takes  a  sick  child  into  her  house?&quot;  Her  voice  has  a  fine-drawn,  melodi-  ous  edge  of  willed,  almost  not  over-  ruled  reluctance  to  be  loud-this  shows  what  a  mannerly  person  she  is.  The  risingly  insistent  noise  of  the  rain  lies  under  her  voice:  a  ticking  and  dripping  and  ringing  of  walls  and  leaves  and  the  sounds  of  wet  rushing  on  the  sodden  lawn:  this  echo  fattens  the  watery  musics  of  her  company  voice.  &quot;We  went  tosix  adoption  agencies,  religious,  unreligious,  Jewish,  Gen-  tile;  we  even  went  to  the  Catholic  one.  No  one  would  give  usa  child;  they  didn't  approve  of  [REDACTED]-don't  ask  me  why.  Maybe  they  didn't  like  me,  but  I  had  pull  and  they  were  afraid  to  tell  me  I  wasn't  to  their  taste.  I  made  scenes;  they  couldn't  stop  me  from  get-  ting  a  child-maybe  they  thought  we  had  too  much  on  the  ball.  We  weren't  like  a  picture  book,  or  maybe  we  were,  the  wrong  picture  book.  I  can  joke  now;,  I  was  upset  then.  Who  knows  what  they  thought'  I'm  not  home  enough.  I'm  not  homely  enough,  if  you  ask  me.  [REDACTED]'s  too  opinionated;  he  didn't  finish  college.  Who  knows  why  people  think  the  things  they  think?  The  world  is  full  of  crazy  people,  and  the  worst  are  bureaucrats-they  want  us  all  dead.  Well,  they're  only  human.  People  want  everyone  to  be  like  them;  they  have  to  feel  important-I  don't  want  to  take  that  away  from  anybody,  God  knows.  They  don't  care  about  people's  feelings;  we  just  didn't  make  a  good  impression,  but,  if  you  ask  me,  they  were  very  small  people  who  judged  us.  .  ..&quot;  The  rain  hisses  stead-  ily.  &quot;Who  knows?  Maybe  they  didn't  mean  any  harm,  but  they  upset  [REDACTED],  who  blamed  me,  healways  blames  me.  I've  had  more  than  my  share  of  blame,  believe  me,and  he  left  me.  I'll  be  honest:  the  story's  out  and  around:  he  left  me  and  Nonie;  he  went  to  live  with  some  woman,  some  trashy  woman.  She's  left  town  now:  it's  al-  ways  thatkind.  I  admit  I  took  in  a  crippled  child  so  [REDACTED]  would  see  I  had  a  good  heart.  He  hasn't  turned  out  to  be  crippled  but  who'd  have  known  that  then?  Give  me  credit.  I'll  tell  you  the  real  truth  even  if  it  does  do  me  credit-I  always  wanted  that  child;  I  could  tell  that  he  was  unusual.  People  said  it  wasn't  right  to  ask  his  mother  for  him-but  she  died.  Listen,  even  then  people  said  it  wouldn't  work  out,  he's  a  different  blood,  blood  can  be  too  different  even  in  a  little  child;  they  thought  I  wouldn't  be  a  good  parent  for  a  child.I  had  Nonie;  she  was  thirteen,  and  no  one  admired  her;  [REDACTED]  wouldn't  stay  with  me  for  her  sake.  We'd  had  two  little  boys  who'd  died,  as  infants:  crib  deaths:  I  was  good  and  scared:  no  one  gave  me  credit,  but  I  was  trying-I'd  had  two  babies  that  died.I  didn't  look  very  far  ahead,  I  don't  approve  of  worrying  something  to  death  before  I  do  it;  with  me,  it's  a  case  of  strike  while  the  iron  is  hot-I  have  to,  or  I  won't  do  anything.  I'm  decisive,  I'man  executive  type,  I  make  up  my  mind  and  I  move,  I  move  at once  or  I  won't  move  at  all.  I  live  with  the  consequences:  I  know  myself:  I'm  good  at  human  nature.  Listen,  what  was  I  saying?  I'll  tell  you  some-  thing-I  expect  the  worst,  but  that  doesn't  keep  me  from  doing  my  best.  I'd  seen  that  child  with  his  mother,  I  knew  it  would  work  with  [REDACTED]  When  [REDACTED]  came  to  see  me-'Just  once,'  he  said-to  see  the  child  I'd  taken,  I  asked  [REDACTED]  to  come  and  see;  I  knew  what  made  him  tick;  a  woman  has  to  live  by  her  wits;  the  child  was  so  sad  and  even  looked  a  little  like  him  and  the  child  was  barely  alive-[REDACTED]  never  had  real  charity,  you  know;  he  helped  people,  but  he  would  get  tired  of  them.  [REDACTED]  was  selfish,  but  he  needed  charity,  and  there  I  was,  there  it  was.  Listen:  Wiley  was  a  very  pretty,  half-dead  child,  maybe  even  a  cripple,  all  marked  up  from  a  beating;  the  woman  taking  care  of  him  was  a  drunk;  his  mother  was  dying;  it  isn't  a  pretty  story,  but  what  is?  I'm  a  realist.  You  had  to  feel  sorry  for  that  child;  [REDACTED]  did.  He  stayed.  I'm  not  a  fool.  I  don't  think  you  can  tell  you  did  the  right  thing.  I  was  very  good-looking,  and  I  like  to  get  my  own  way-what's  wrong  with  that?  We  bought  this  house;  it  cost  too  much  money;  all  these  houses  are  overpriced;  people  want  to  live  on  the  bluff,  that's  one  thing,  and  these  places  have  good  workmanship,  that's  an-  other,  but  if  it  makes  you  happy,  that's  something  else,  then  something's  cheap,  no  matter  what  it  costs:  it's  a  bargain  if  it  makes  life  worthwhile;  then  it's  a  big  bargain,  I'll  tell  you:  I  know.  I  wanted  a  nursemaid  and  a  nice  house,  I  knew  I  wasn't  good  with  children-I  can  make  myself  cry  if  I  go  on  about  that.  But  I  don't  like  to  cry,  I'm  not  a  crier,  not  many  people  ever  will  see  me  cry,  no  matter  what  happens  to  me.  My  mother  pays  for  the  nurse.  We  live  very  well,  but  we  owe  a  lot  of  money,  we  owe  a  lot  of  people;  we're  typical  that  way.  Anne-  marie  is  wonderful  to  us;  we'd  be  nowhere,  we'd  be  nothing,  without  her.  I  know  about  some  things:  I  can  manage  some  things.  We  have  to  put  on  the  dog  for  Annemarie,  because  she  doesn't  want  to  work  for  penny-  pinchers,  she  doesn't  want  to  give  her  life  away  for  a  song-I  don't  blame  her.  She's  a  wonderful  person,  even  if  she  does  lack  imagination.  We  do  a  lot  of  entertaining-some  women  won't  do  that  anymore;  I  do  it  every  day;  I  run  myself  ragged.  I'm  the  one  who  knows  people.  I  had  some  wonder-  " b"ful  opportunities  while  [REDACTED]  and  I  were  sepa-  rated:  I'm  probably  a  fool  to  say  it,  but  some  people  think  I'm  an  out-  standing  person.  Well,  I'm  not  as  vain  as  I  sound.  But  I  am  vain.  [REDACTED]'s  not  a  calculating  person,  but  don't  worry  -I  can  be  smart  enough  for  two.  Never  under-  rate  a  woman  like  me.  But  the  thing  about  being  good-looking  is  that  you  can  face  things;  it's  not  easy  to  get  peo-  pleto  keep  investing  in  you  if  you're  a  woman.  I  admit  I  can't  do  things  on  my  own:  I'm  not  the  type.  [REDACTED]'s  a  help.  Anne-  marie  helps.  Some  days,  I'm  not  afraid  of  any-  thing.  I  have  to  encour-  age  [REDACTED]  to  spend  mon-  ey;  you  have  to  keep  your  nerve:  if  we  look  good,  then  it's  easier  to  make  money.  He  can  make  good  money  if  he  keeps  his  head;  I  have  a  good  business  head,  I'm  a  good  wife  for  him  -not  if  you're  talking  about  the-you  know,  the  Ideal,  but  who's  ideal?  I'm  a  good  wife  if  you're  being  realistic  about  what  he  can  get  on  the  open  market.  He  says  money  costs  him  his  life's  blood.  We're  good  people;  we're  good  citizens,  I  hope  that's  clear.  Well,  are  you  a  well-  wisher-I  know  you  are.  If  you're  a  well-wisher,  wish  me  luck.&quot;  Something  in  me  booms  and  bangs  -a  childish  heart.  It's  louder  ina  childish  chest  than  a  grownup's  heart  in  a  grownup.  &quot;Or  don't  wish  me  luck-just  don't  talk  cheap  about  what  I  do,&quot;  Momma  says.  &quot;If  you  sneer  at  me,  I'll  sneer  right  back  at  you,  I'll  say  ha-ha  and  then  some.&quot;  Outside  the  window,  occupying  a  damp  niche  of  dripping  leaves  in  the  implicit  rollcall  of  the  rain,  is  a  col-  ored  cloud.  I  don't  know  how  to  see.  [REDACTED]  extends  above  me-as  if  he  were  in  leaf.  The  mute  child  is  a  field  of  attention  in  his  increasingly  imperial  wish  to  live.  The  noticeable  heat  of  childhood  is  present,  therefore,  but  guided,  as  if  formally,  and  if  guided,  or  focussed,  it  seems  restrained  or  courteous-perhaps  brilliantly  so.  The  facts  of  spectacle  include  the  frail  facial  shadowing  of  [REDACTED]  in  the  window  glass.  The  child  shakes  his  head  so  that  distractions  run  out-the  child  can  see  not  any  real  thing  but  only  the  attributes  of  a  moment,  so  to  speak.  Lila-Momma-said,  &quot;The  world  won't  come  to  an  end  if  I  say  I'm  optimistic  now  that  we've  stepped  in.  I'll  tell  you  something-I  will  never  say  to  him,  'Watch  out,  you  might  kill  somebody.  I  think  that's  the  wrong  training  for  a  Jew.&quot;  A  multitude  of  grownups  are  shad-  ow-tumults  vaguely.  Three  girls  sit  cross-legged  on  the  floor:  aseparate  sect.  The  man  near  me  says,  &quot;You  like  looking  out  the  window?  You  don't  want  to  talk  yet?  What  are  you  looking  at?  You  looking  at  a  robin?  That's  a  robin  come  tosee  you.&quot;  A  woman,  a  tall-ghost  voice:  &quot;I  think  it's  a  cardinal,  [REDACTED]-it's  an  all-  red  bird.&quot;  [REDACTED]  said,  &quot;I'm  not  that  crazy  about  birds,  Katherine.  I  don't  want  to  know  all  their  names-why  make  an  issue  of  it?'  Who  needs  the  strain?  Maybe  big  birds  are  a  different  matter,  but  little  birds  are  just  sweet,  aren't  they?&quot;  Enough  ghosts  are  present  in  the  rainy  air  that  I'm  a  pressured  rational-  ist  struggling  with  the  questions  of  vision  and  evading  my  superstitions,  my  forms  of  incapacitating  blindness.  An  abundance  of  moments  of  failed  vision  as  I  stare  now  become  a  single  smudged  anatomy  of  inability,  of  a  generalized  and  uncomprehending  stare-I  remember,  I  remember  not  seeing  very  well.  If  I  consider  the  smudged  sight  as  so  many  events,  as  so  many  superimpo-  " b"sitions  and  associations  from  other  lives,  and  houses,  and  mornings,  and  as  uncompleted  in  a  certain  way,  a  specific  way,  with  me  nuzzling  and  sniffing,  ocularly,  around  the  bounda-  ries-at  the  living  and  smelly  limits  of  my  vision-my  blindness,  my  inability,  may  be  in  part  a  confusion  of  my  names  and  lives.  But  perhaps  it  is  real  ignorance  and  not  the  result  of  a  story.  My  memory  does  not  give  me  a  real  moment,  a  singular  one;  usually,  I'm  given  a  great  bunch  of  moments,  a  smudge,  a  summary  of  things  I  know  at  this  moment  and  at  others  to  compare  every-  thing  present  to,  so  that  I  can  know  what  I  see  now.  I  am  always  some-  what  ignorant  in  a  present  moment  but  in  those  days  no  explanations  at  all  worked  for  a  while-one  way  and  another,  I  was  blind  with  ignorance.  &quot;[REDACTED],  honey,  here  let  me  show  you  -it  was  all  red,  wasn't  it,  the  bird  outside?&quot;  She  has  fetched  something  -a  book-from  her  purse.  &quot;Spare  me,  Katherine-don't  you  know  a  robin  a  day  keeps  the  doctor  away?&quot;  His  tone  of  jocularity  some-  what  meanly,  somewhat  generously  announces  itself  as  a  provision  of  char-  ity  toward  a  woman  like  her.  I  knew  very  little  about  pictures  ex-  ceptin  the  nervous  kingdoms  of  my  dreams.  Picture  books,  in  their  deathly  stillness,  do  not  yet  entertain  me.  They  were,  indeed,  often  entirely  un-  recognizable,  such  books-the  volumes  themselves  and  what  was  in  them,  divorced  from  movement,  unless  the  movements  of  someone's  hands  and  voice  were  present.  My  periods  of  madness,  of  catatonia,  instruct  me.  Perversely  sane,  I  mimic  what  others  do-but  ineptly.  Mimicry  is  judged  a  repetition:  why,  when  it  is  so  different  or  so  poor  a  version  of  the  other?  In  happiness,  or  simple  well-  being,  I  found  that  some  errors  hardly  mattered  but  that  others  did;  and  that  everything  of  the  mind  and  body-my  mind,  my  body-was  a  leap  through  the  doubled  medium  of  wakefulness  and  sleep  in  the  moment,  the  wakeful-  ness  and  sleep  of  the  mind  and  the  senses:  eyeblinks  and  rattling  ears  toward  saying  or  doing  or  knowing  something.  I  did  not  like  the  inter-  ruption  of  actual  sleep.  I  never  slept-  I  was  locked  up,  smothered,  clubbed.  Someone  new  always  came  to  release  me.  Someone  new  woke  and  began  what  was  called  a  return  to  the  day,  but  that  seemed  to  occur  on  a  fresh layerof  moral  sediment  or  silt  of  his-  tory  deposited  on  and  obscuring  what  had  been  there  and  supplying  a  new  flooring  for  the  senses.  With  especial  attentiveness  and  fear,  peculiar  to  me,  the  day'schild  watched  the  woman's  hands  push,  shuffle,  catch  at  pages,  and  straighten  one  particular  page.  Such  suggestive-  ness  accompanied  the  postures  of  her  hands,  the  rustling  pages,  and  her  fingers  had  such  dreamlike  authority,  that  the  sense  of  I-am-here  was  very  strong;  and  on  the  pages  the  myriad  strange  colors,  not  much  like  nature,  and  the  blacks  and  whites,  which  seemed  more  accurately  to  be  real  in  being  light  and  dark,  as  in  a  corner  of  a  room  in  yet  a  further  corner  of  the  day,  were  gifted  with  hovering  and  with  a  moving  presence,  too.  The  pictures  began  to  address  me  with  the  actuality  of  a  dimensional  creature-a  dog  or  cat  stalking  in  and  compelling  attention  because  it  can  spill  surprises  on  you,  and  bearing  a freight  of  worry,  pleasure,  jealousy,  as-  tonishment.  Animals  are  not  common  even  in  my  unremembered  dreams,  I  would  bet  on  that.  Those  pages,  these  pages,  Daddy's  breath,  the  ghost  woman's,  my  own.  My  absurd  safety  at  this  time,  at  this  very  moment:  I  am  safer  from  unwanted  surprises  than  I  am  even  in  the  after  all  awkward  pas-  sages  of  my  own  dreams  at  their  most  flattering  and  consoling  egocentricity.  I  am  awake  to  others  and  extraordi-  narily  safe  from  suffering  and  intrusion.  One  studies  best  the  less  true,  the  falsified,  the  model.  The  real  is  a  rainy  blur.  In  dreams,  mine,  the  creatures  are  sometimes  plausible  shadows  and  only  sometimes  are  people,  not  fully  sensed  but  as  if  fully  sensed,  or  as  fully  sensed  asin  laboring  wakefulness,  and  dimensional,  and  examples  of  purpose  toward  me-purposes  and  tones  con-  cerned  with  me,  and  named  in  the  dream  by  the  mood,  by  my  sense  of  the  mood:  a  mood  is  everything  I  know  about  this,  whatever  this  is.  A  name  holds  other  information,  holds  things  I  might  know  if  I  thought  to  ask  someone-but  I  don't  speak.  In  a  sin-  gle  moment,  a  name  is  merely  a  con-  tract,  an  obligation  to  have  an  identity.  My  own  name  is  an  alternately  ab-  stract  and  real  focus  of  moral  indigna-  tion  having  to  do  with  information  " b"and  being  balked-a  right  to  comfort,  a  need  of  others.  A  rush  of  feeling,  then  a  silence  of  feeling,  announces  the  clarifi-  cation  of  the  intentions  of  the  large  bodies  around  me.  Love  and  fear  say  the  stuff  on  the  page  is  honorably  a  bird  -this  is  a  more  ideal  presence  than  I  am  used  to.  I  press  one  hand  on  the  picture  of  a  car-  dinal.  More  ideal?  It  depends  on  where  one  is  in  one's  story  of  the  cardinal-in-the-rain.  The  light  on  the  page  of  the  book  makes  a  glare  through  which  I  see  representations  now,  half  drowned,  al-  most  as  in  recollection  but  itis  a  discovery,  I  see  a  bird-but  in  my  mind.  The  real  bird  is  gone.  Daddy  says,  &quot;Do  you  see?  What  do  you  see?  Look  at  the  little  shicker-  drunk;  look  at  the  scholarly  little  pisser.  He's  a  scholar  and  a  gentleman  right  off  the  bat-a  real  Yiddisher  kop.  Look  at  him.&quot;  He's  joking.  Daddy  used  Yiddish  as  another-wittier,  sourer-form  of  coun-  try-and-Western,  a  ru-  ral  American  poetics,  a  medium  of  sentiment  and  irony  about  life  around  here.  The  summer  rain  tumbles  weightily  outside.  Rain  ribbons,  shadows,  fallen,  lie  and  wriggle  on  the  shadow-striped  glare-porcelain  of  [REDACTED]'s  face.  The  party  of  travellers  in  the  room  share  the  shelterof  the  room  with  me.  Faces,  voices,  mouths,  syllables  make  a  foam  of  practiced  and  ambitious  good-  fellowship,  the  calculated  vivacity  here  at  what  is  a  party.  Lila  asked,  &quot;Do  you  think  thet  child's  unhappy?&quot;  &quot;Look  at  cutiepie  here,  he's  got  eyes  like  auditoriums-hey,  you  play-  ing  basketball  inside  there?  He  may  be  a  little  slow  but  he's  ours-that's  enough  for  us-&quot;  [REDACTED]  and  I  live  here.  I see  him-  clearly,  so  to  speak.  [REDACTED]'s  face,  [REDACTED]'s  nose  and  eyes,  as  proposed  by  the  glare,  have  the  spectacular  wobble  of  being  alive.  I  see  his  nose  and  eyes,  his  face,  in  the  spectacular  wobble  of  being  young,  and  in  a  particular  mood,  and  not  smudged  in  the  usual  summary  bunch  of  moments  with  which  my  memory  gives  him  to  me-not  a  moody  average  of  a  number  of  later  years,  not  [REDACTED]  in  the  mask  of  my  opinion  of  him  when  I  was  older.  That  familiar  blurry  and  sad  face,  that  other  [REDACTED],  is  lonelier  than  this  one.  This  one's  domestically  voluptuous,  more  confiding  physically-this  pub-  licly  young  [REDACTED],  opinionated,  morally  safe  for  the  moment,  starkly  glamor-  ous.  Phallic.  This  [REDACTED]  has  bits  of  a  lionlike  and  sealike  eighteen-year-old  [REDACTED]  in  him,  too-when  he  was  first  socially  ad-  mired.  And  some  of  the  thicker  pres-  ence  of  [REDACTED]  at  twenty-five  is  here-  sort  of  radiant-loosely  energetic,  young  and  moneyed,  surprisingly  af-  fluent.  And  some  of  the  more  shadowy  and  porous  and  cavernous  43616e616461s  of  this  Sunday  and  of  a  few  years  from  now  and  more  years  than  that  from  now-  but  mostly  it  is  only  [REDACTED]  at  this  one  time  with  his  adopted  son  at  the  party.  At  the  party,  he  talks  in  a  variety  of  tones,  of  ages-he  has  no  aelwaeys-  talks.  He  says  in  a  mixture  of  styles-  moral  styles,  too-&quot;Is  this  something,  or  is  this  something?  Ittle  Wiley-  poopsie.  Look  at  how  many  people  came  out  in  the  rain-just  to  see  what  there  is  about  you  that  might  be  inter-  " b"esting.  Well,  you'll  just  have  to  grin  and  bear  it  like  a  little  gentleman;  you  have  to  smile-a  little  king  has  to  keep  smiling  till  the  cows  come  home:  can  you  keep  it  up?  Are  you  one  of  those  matin\xc3\xa9e  idols  can  keep  it  up  till  the  cows  come  home?&quot;  &quot;This  is  a  swell  turnout,  this  is  the  creme  de  la  cream-&quot;  a  pleased  and  self-conscious  woman  says  in  a  flushed  and  anxious  way:  she  wants  to  have  a  good  time  and  not  be  jealous  of  anyone  for  a  while.  &quot;Well,  look  who's  here,&quot;  someone  says.  &quot;Hello  there,  hello,  and  hello,  and  more  hello,&quot;  someone  else  says.  &quot;Be  nice  to  this  one;  this  one  does  favors.&quot;  That's  Momma  introducing  a  newcomer  to  the  pleased  and  self-  conscious  woman.  No  one  in  the  room  admits  to  being  angry.  An  eerie,  gray-white  light  appears  at  the  window  and  displaces  the  rainy  light  there  briefly;  and  then  a  seg-  mented  noise,  a  thunder,  splits  my  head  open;  and  my  eyes  go  rolling  and  banging  everywhere.  t\xe2\x80\x98WOWo,\xe2\x80\x99  &quot;Who  are  the  sinners  in  this  neigh-  borhood?&quot;  &quot;Ronnie  Metcalfe,  Sue  Baker  the  bitch.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  God,  that's  funny-don't  be  funny  about  this-it's  serious.  Ha-  ha.&quot;  &quot;We've  got  the  best  around  here  & and  we've  got  the  worst,  the  very  worst.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  believe  it-believe  me,  I  believe  it.&quot;  &quot;You  know,  it's  just  the  most  horri-  ble  thing  I  can  think  of,  being  struck  by  lightning-if  you're  in  a  recreation  area,  it's  such  a  terrible  time  to  have  it  happen-and  it's  so  public;  everyone  knows.  Oh,  I  don't  know,  it's  just  so  awful,  you  just  sizzle  and  broil  instan-  taneously-I  think  it's  the  worst,  just  absolutely  the  worst.&quot;  &quot;The  odds  against  it  are  in  your  favor.&quot;  &quot;Let's  change  the  subject.  We're  not  talking  about  things  that  are  my  favorite  subject;  getting  hit  by  light-  ning  is  not  a  thing  I  look  forward  to.&quot;  My  parents'  daughter  Nonie  enters  the  room.  She  is  not  quite  a  child,  not  really  small-I  assumed  for  a  long  time  that  being  victimized  was  a  mat-  ter  of  size.  Nonie  is  pudgy.  A  pink  weight  of  haunch  settles  on  the  couch,  pushes  me:  a  haunch  touches  Daddy,  his  daughter's.  She  stares;  her  eyes  are  set  in  the  small  bones  of  a  pretty  and  oval  face,  clay-bright.  She's  thirteen  but  seems  younger.  In  this  light,  it  is  as  if  a  lynx  mask  of  yellow  glass  rode  askew  on  the  upper  part  of  her  face.  She  greets  people  in  the  room  with  high-pressured,  uncentered,  and  im-  personal  and  loud  friendliness,  cheer-  leaderish  but  in  an  eccentric  way  and     MARCH  5,  1984  juvenile:  &quot;Oh,  hi  ...  Hi  ...  Oh,  hi.&quot;  Each  time  she  says  &quot;Hi&quot;  she  adopts  and  discards  a  strenuously  open  look,  a  display  of  mental  health,  and  a  demand  that  she  be  seen  as  highly  normal,  a  very  high-or  even  the  highest  -form  of  normal;  and  as  pleasing:  she's  bringing  brightness  into  the  room;  she's  a  happy  girl,  a  friendly  greeter.  She  smiles-and  smiles-she  resmiles  to  the  full  width  of  her  face  each  time  she  looks  at  someone.  Her  skin  is  clammy.  She  wraps  one  arm  over  and  then  under  my  legs.  She's  [REDACTED]  and  Lila's  real  daughter.  She's  breastless,  barely  literate-un-  menstrual.  She  flunks  school;  she's  been  put  back  a  year  and  a  half:  she  takes  after  [REDACTED]'s  family-they're  mot  bright;  they've  done  all  right  in  the  world,  though;  they're  [REDACTED]-nice  types.  (Lila.)  Nonie  in  answer  to  someone  says,  &quot;I'm  eleven  now.&quot;  It  was  Lila's  notion  that  it  would  be  a  smart  move  to  lie  about  Nonie's  age:  People  think  they  know  a  child's  age,  but  they  forget-believe  me,  you  can  get  away  with  it.  Nonie  had  been  wor-  ried  aboutbeing  cheated  of  something  she  couldn't  guess  at  by  this  notion  of  Lila's.  Daddy  said,  That  Hie  hurts  no  one,  and  if  it  makes  you  feel  good-  why  not?  'That  is,  he'd  as  soon  she  lied  and  freed  him  from  the  embarrassment  of  her  loathing  for  school  and  her  being  behind  a  grade  and  a  half.  [REDACTED]  whispers  to  her,  &quot;Do  up  your  shirt,  honey-you  have  too  many  buttons  un-  done.&quot;  Anger  at  being  cor-  rected  makes  her  go  rigid.  The  veins  in  her  temples  show  and  tremble.  Her  mouth  dies  with  hurt,  then  stiffens  into  tough-  ness,  a  sinuous  obsti-  nacy.  She  is  engaged  in  surviving  the  cruel-  ty  to  her  in  any  cor-  rection  or  disapprov-  al  shown  her-any  at  all.  Nonie's  griefs,  her  determined  jollity,  her  victories  over  tragedy  are  part  of  a  comedy.  Perhaps  not.  The  self-conscious  woman  asks  Nonie  with  bitterness,  &quot;How  is  school?  Is  the  male  " b"bias as  bad  there  as  it  ever  was?&quot;  Nonie's  eyes  grow  nobly  unfixed.  At  mo-  ments,  they  glance  fix-  edly,  however,  at  the  grown  woman's  breasts.  Nonie's  pink-yellow  face,  Nonie's  legs-tied-  together,  coquettish,  scratching-at-you,  I-  have-to-pee  voice:  &quot;I  can't  stay  awake  in  school;  it's  dull-I  don't  know  who  can  like  that  stuff.  It's  all  dumb  and  foolish.  You  know  what  it  is.  They  don't  like  Jews  at  my  school,  either.  They  show  movies,  but  their  movies  put  me  to  sleep.  Daddy  has  to  carry  me  home  sometimes  from  real  movies,  even.  I  guess  I  just  like  to  sleep,  that's  all.&quot;  An  interview  with  the  host  and  hostess's  daughter-a  celebrity,  on  this  occasion.  Nonie's  an  athlete.  She  is  someone  of  monosyllabic  calcula-  tions,  and  of  a  quick  shieldedness  of  those  calculations,  and  then  she  has  a  knowingness  in  action,  and  there  is  the  absurd,  enormous  elegance  of  her  child-  ish  coloring-shades  of  peach  and  roan-and  all  in  all  she  is  a  particular  sort  of  creature;  she  would  like  a  boy's  education:  the  femaleness  of  school  is  what  evades  her.  Daddy  says,  &quot;When  she  sleeps,  she  really  sleeps.  This  is  someone  who  likes  to  sleep.  She's  my  Sleeping  Beauty.&quot;  &quot;I'm  the  best  sleeper  Daddy  knows.&quot;  &quot;She's  sensitive,  whether  she  looks  it  or  not.&quot;  This  is  Lila  preparing  to  explain  Nonie's  style  as  coming  from  feminine  sensitivity.  Nonie  immediately  scowls,  compre-  hending,  athletically,  at  once  elements  of  oppression  and  chance  in  her  life,  even  if  obscure,  in  what  Lila  said.  Nonie,  in  a  weirdly  biting  voice  from  inside  her  warm  weight,  says,  \xc2\xabYou  be  quiet.&quot;  At  once,  a  number  of  women  smil-  ingly  break  into  speech:  &quot;I  envy  that  girl  her  skin.&quot;  &quot;She's  sopretty  I  can't  believe  it.&quot;  Nonie's  forearms  are  damp.  She  ob-  serves  the  women  concealing  her  out-  burst,  her  public  display  of  temper.  A  terse  boy,  and  quick  and  shielded-but  she's  not  a  boy-she  reaches  for,  she  grabs,  the  child:  me.  From  behind  me,  then,  she  stares  at  Lila,  at  the  guests.  It's  noticeable  that  this  one's  un-  daunted:  her  mixture  of  the  defiant  and  the  conventional,  the  conventional  being  a  general  principle  of  defense,  of  justice  rather  than  manners,  aclaim  that  she's  typical,  she's  good-it  is  a  matter  of  personal  style.  A  nearer  flare  of  lightning  theatri-  cally  whitens,  then  blackens  our  front  lawn.  Nonie  states  in  an  immoderate  voice,  &quot;I  don't  mind  the  lightning!&quot;  The  child  on  her  lap  is  a  pillow,  a  muffling  device,  a  fleshy  shield  against  electrical  bolts  and  the  storm  if  God  rips  off  our  roof  soon.  Nature  does  not  have  Nonie's  survival  at  its  heart  as  its  first  principle  but  it  has  her  bravery,  her  comedy  in  it.  Her  survival  as  her  first  principle  is  part  of  nature  as  I  know  it.  She  feels  her  own  life  as  the  moral  given,  and  large-larger  than  any  other  moral  given.  She's  less  sub-  sidiary  in  her  view  of  the  drama  than  anyone  else;  everyone  is  servant  to  her  vastness-the  vastness  of  her  mind,  her  consciousness  ofthings,  her  sense  of  things;  she  ought  not  to  be  let  die.  It's  Nonie's  world;  she  knows  what  it's  like  to  be  in  it;  she's  been  a  child  in  it  now  for  a  long  time,  she's  lived  this  long,  she's  experienced  (in  her  own  view,  she's  expert)  and  not  innocent,  not  stupid.  I  say  this  as  a  description  of  her  moral  style  and  of  the  sortof  protection  she  craves.  She's  maybe  the  spirit  of  darkness,  and  of  nothing-special,  to  boot.  IfI  love  my  accidental  sister  enough,  per-  haps  the  world  of  darkness  and  of  nothing-special  will  be  given  to  me,  too.  Her  breath  is  unquiet  and  present.  She  is  small  compared  to  Daddy,  tiny-  boned-not  so  much  lately,  but  it  used  to  be  he  called  her  a  little  bird  and  told  her  to  take  shelter  under  his  arm  and  he  would  hide  her  from  the  rain  and  thunder  and  so  on.  He  used  to  say,  &quot;Can  you  tweet  like  a  little  bird,  can  you  whistle  like  a  little  bird,  can  you  do  it  for  me,  can  you  sing  like  a  little  bird  for  your  dad?&quot;  Like  a  canary,  or  like  a  child,  fastid-  " b"ious  and  frail,  she  is  sensitive  to  the  presence  of  Evil,  the  possibility  of  Evil,  the  approach  of  nightmare,  the  nightmare  asphyxiation  of  her  pride-  the  terrible  onslaught  of  the  horror  of  that-and  she  registers  the  approach,  the  presence  of  Evil,  and  is  discolored  by  it  when  it  approaches,  as  now  in  the  lightning.  ...If  I  try  to  be  her,  to  know  her,  I  sense  the  darkness  and  enraged  exasperation  of  her  mind-it  is  an  unlimited  exasperation.  Her  mind  cries,  I?s  wrong.  The  lightning  is.  It's  an  impropriety  and  Evil;  she  will  be  upended.  She  directs  Evil  away  from  her.  She's  fierce.  Maybe  she'ssort  of  the  way  everyone  is,  maybe  she  is  the  spirit  of  not  being  a  subsidiary  character  which  is  in  everyone  who  is  proud-  maybe  she  is  the  spirit  named  I-am-  the-chief-story,  I-am-the-BEST-point-  of-view.  She  is  a  spirit  caroming  like  a  swarm  of  molecules  in  a  quickening  hysteria  ofthe  application  of  heat.  The  passage  of  lightning  toward  her,  the  streaks  become  sheets  of  light  at  the  windows;  the  great  white  skyey  burning  becomes  weird  light  flung  whirling  through  our  windows  and  filling  the  room  with  interrogatory  glare  that  pinions  her  in  the  stormy  attention  of  the  sky-perhaps  Nonie  is  Evil  Incarnate-perhaps  Nonie  is  be-  ing  visited  by  judgment.  She  squints.  I  feel  she  is  Evil  in  the  way  she  puts  her  life,  her  feelings  above  mine-mine  and  everyone's.  Maybe  she  is  the  An-  gry  and  Indomitable  Secular.  She  says,  &quot;I  love  Wiley  so  much.  Lightning  doesn't  strike  the  same  person  twice.  I  used  to  be  afraidof  lightning.  I'm  not  a  conceited  person,  I'm  a  nice  person  -the  lightning  isn't  interested  in  me.  I  had  science  in  school-it's  really  silly.  People  think  very  silly  things  ell  the  time-not  me-&quot;  She  laughs.  She  says,  &quot;I  know  what  a  lightning  rod  is  -I  can't  explain  science,  but  science  is  good.&quot;  The  things  Nonie  said  stood  in  re-  lation  to  what  she  felt  and  knew  as  a  calculated  poem,  an  artificial  thing  in  relation  to  secret  matters.  She  had  an  air  as  of  anything-could-be-said-but-  it-had-to-be-sevre-but  she  wasn't  honest  about  that;  Nonie  was  the  Pri-  mal  Sanity,  sort  of-or  lunacy  at-  tempting  to  pass  itself  off  as  sane.  Anything  she  accepted  as  a  standard  for  herself  she  became  priestess  of,  sort  of;  her  interpretations  were  a  little  startling:  she  had  no  patience  for  other  people's  motives,  or  perhaps  even  for  their  existences.  She  had  an  air  of  jollity  and  discipline  and  yet  of  undis-  ciplined  threat:  Don't  doubt  me,  don't  question  me.  T  his  wasn't  exactly  boy-  ish  but  was  an  inversion  of  a  heated,  womanly,  and  sensual  thing  of  you-  want-to-question-a-woman-and-  know-my-secrets-I-know-all-about-  it-and-I-will-be-evasive:  well,  she  was  not  evasive  so  much  as  a  real  liar,  and  violent.  ...  So  it  wasn't  amusing  to  ask  explana-     -EnizasetH  Spires  tions  of  Nonie.  She  did  have  some  gift  for  being  an  example  of  skepticism;  she  was  as  cynical,  then,  as  a  ten-year-old  boy  waiting  for  puberty-and  know-  ing  all  about  it  but  not  from  experi-  ence,  and  so  feeling  cheated.  Her  tem-  per  came  from  her  being  proud,  which  was  an  aspect  of  her  prettiness,  and  there  was  a  sweetness  she  sometimes  had-a  spring-and-tall-grasses  kind  of  sweetness,  maybe  temporary  but  piercing  all  the  same  when  she  felt  experienced  in  things  and  not  cheated.  &quot;A  lightning  rod  carries  the  light-  ning  to  the  ground  and  dumps  it  there.  See,  I  know,&quot;  Nonie  said.  &quot;I'm  not  afraid.&quot;  A  much-privileged,  much-  spared  girl,  an  American  girl-that  was  her  tone.  &quot;Lightning  is  stupid,  " b"thunder  is  stupid.  Thunder  is  the  noise  -thunder  is  a  stupid  noise.&quot;  She  quotes-and  adopts  and  adapts-then  she  owns  the  thought,  the  thought  is  hers,  the  priestess's;  she  alters  it,  she  announces  it:  it's  a  law.  Doubt  is  criminal,  an  impropriety:  AN  EVIL  THING.  From  the  doorway  to  the  sunroom  -from  which  come  voices  and  tele-  vision  noises-a  cousin  of  Nonie's  (and  mine)  stares  at  the  clayey  girl.  &quot;Nonie,  we're  looking  at  TV-do  you  want  to  come  be  with  us?&quot;  Then:  &quot;With  me?&quot;  Nonie's  face,  as  it  often  is  for  me,  is  as  if  lit  by  the  overhead  light  in  her  bedroom  or  bathroom.  That  is,  I  don't  see  her  freshly.  I  remember  her  face  when  it  was  clearest  to  me,  when  it  had  a  star's  illumination.  Hers  is  an  important  face  to  me.  That  is  to  say,  to  me  Nonie  is  as  if  undressing  and  washing  while  sitting  in  the  front  room.  But  the  hovering  cone  of  whiteness  for  those  acts  is  nowhere  in  the  rainlit  room-  it  is  just  that  I  know  her  that  way;  I  have  some  knowledge  of  the  variety  of  sounds  of  her  clothes;  her  smell;  her  roughly  bitten,  torn  fingernails.  &quot;I'm  busy;  I'm  with  Daddy  and  Wileynow.&quot;  The  cousin's  face  is  hurt  and  dot-  ing,  is  an  upright  fish,  shiny  in  the  air,  long,  smooth,  scaly  with  rain  shadows.  Nonie  is  a  specialist  in  fearlessness:  this  catches  her  in  the  boastfulness  and  fatefulness  of  an  epic:  she  is  a  girl  Achilles.  But  now  a  televisiony  light  appears  at  the  window:  the  light  ex-  tends  into  the  room  silently  and  then  recedes  without  sound,  rapidly.  Visible  outside  is  a  corridor  of  wet  trees  and  then  they  are  rain-blurred  and  half  hidden,obscure  again.  Nonie's  head  is  yanked.  Her  face  hardens  and  gets  thin.  Then  it  fattens  and  is  yanked  again.  The  thunder  comes  bowling  jerkily  into  the  room.  The  thunder  gets  loud  and  then  louder  and  then  passes  credibility.  It  is  so  loud  my  sense  of  separation  from  it  is  erased;  I  am  inside  it,  swallowed.  After  I  return  to  myself  from  my  sojourn  in  the  noise,  my  mind  and  lots  of  the  parts  of  my  body  go  on  being  startled  for  a  while,  Daddy  says,  &quot;What  did  you  think  of  that?&quot;  Nonie  angrily  recites,  &quot;Sticks  and  stones-STICKS  AND  STONES.&quot;  That  is,  the  lightning  is  defama-  tion,  andno  such  defamation  can  touch  her-she  is  from  a  good  family.  The  lightning  tried  to  expel  her  from  the  [REDACTED]  into  a  different  poem,  not  sunny  but  one  mostly  about  the  spirit  and  squalor,  defeat  and  com-  plaint,  and  only  one  hero,  not  her,  someone  pure,  not  Nonie.  &quot;It's  time  Wiley  had  a  little  rest.  Nonie-will  you  take  him  upstairs?  [REDACTED],  do  you  want  to  go  chaperon  the  fearless  duo?&quot;  Damp  rises  from  a  blue,  oval  rug.  Some  pee  trickles  down  Nonie's  leg.  Our  housekeeper,  my  nurse-she  " b"has  been  keeping  trays  of  little  sand-  wiches  filled-has  a  dish  towel  over  her  arm.  She  moves  toward  Nonie.  She  dabs-she  knows  what  to  do.  She  says,  &quot;The  Devil's  banging  skulls.&quot;  She's  partly  sorrowful,  duplicitous.  She  has  a  German  accent.  She  doesn't  like  Nonie-she  wants  to  scare  her.  Maybe  not.  A  lightning  flash  moves  in  tree  branches  outside  the  front  door-its  flare  touches  us  in  here.  What  it  is  this  time  is  that  the  light  balls  up  not  far  from  our  lawn,  a  cloud  of  glare  runs  toward  us,  it's  around  us:  in  the  glare,  walls  and  windows  visibly  quiver;  and  there's  a  ringing  and  hum  from  the  rush  and  flow  in  house  gutters  and  on  the  walls-the  sounds  of  water  streaming  sharper  in  the  moment  of  eerie  light.  Nonie  yells,  &quot;IT'S  BAD.&quot;  Then  she's  quiet  and  she  pees  some  more.  Daddy  says,  &quot;You're  not  a  child,  you're  not  scared.&quot;  He  says  it  sweetly  -the  untruth,  the  consolation.  The  hint.  &quot;It's  some  storm,  I'll  tell  the  world.&quot;  Then  he  says,  &quot;Annemarie,  no  Devil  business;  Devil  business  is  monkey  business;  this  neighborhood-  it's  too  expensive  for  Old  Nick;  we  get  only  nice  people  and  Republicans  around  here;  that's  what  we  have  and  that's  enough  to  keep  the  Devil  away  from  our  door.  ..  .&quot;  He  doesn't  touch  Nonie;  he  smiles  (to  show  that  this  isn't  an  emergency  for  his  emotions  yet);  complications  of  voice  and  intent  make  rosebushes,  thornbushes,  and  paths,  a  park,  a  site  of  something  made  into  a  public  sweet-  ness.  Annemarie  mops  Nonie.  Daddy's  a  guard,  a  reinforcement,  a  plural:  he's  reinforcements,  he's  so  big.  He  shepherds  us-we're  on  the  stairs,  Annemarie,  the  towel,  me,  the  pale,  reciting  girl,  saying,  &quot;I'm  not  fright,  ened-sticks  and  stones  can  break  my  bones-&quot;  The  ammoniac  smell,  her  spraddled  legs  as  she  walks.  In  an  eerie  balloon  of  white  light,  her  face  seems  to  sail  outward:  bleached  pottery  with  black  lips.  The  air  smells  burned.  &quot;The  Devil  stinks,&quot;  Daddy  says,  partly  during,  partly  after  the  thunder.  Then:  &quot;That's  why  he  can't  live  around  here.&quot;  He  now  admits,  sort  of  idly,  that  the  Devil  exists-at  least,  as  far  as  Nonie  is  concerned.  Outside  the  white-sashed  midstairs  window  are  waving  branches,  swoosh,  ing  and  askew.  It's  semi-dark  in  the  deluge  out  there.  The  wind  dies,  the  branches  droop,  are  bent  in  affecting,  water-weighted  postures,  and  the  rain  takes  on  a  hard,  harsh,  cracking  sound.  Everything  is  moist  and  odor-  ous.  &quot;Don't  let  it  get  you  down,  honey,&quot;  Daddy  says.  She  stares  toward  the  window,  where  a  nervous  river  of  skinny  light  runs  in  the  domelike,  temporarily  lighted  sky.  She  shouts,  &quot;YOU  DON'T  [REDACTED]  WHAT  TO  DO.&quot;  She  has  an  athlete's  comprehension  of  danger,  of  tactics.  A  series  of  blurred  ripples  of  weird  light  are  rising  and  sinking  in  wet  clouds.  Something  hisses  in  my  ears-it's  abominable:  it's  her  breath-her  fear-  ful  breath.  Daddy  says,  holding  her  shoulder,  &quot;Well,  it's  not  the  end  of  the  world,  but  it's  a  real  siege.  God,  it  never  rains  but  it  pours.&quot;  In  Nonie  is  an  inverted  rapture  of  exploding  pulse:  giant  doors  boom  and  slam  in  her.  It  is  a  god-awful  filth:  she  feels  it  as  that:  &quot;I  HATE  THE  GOD-DAMNED  LIGHTNING  .  ..  I  HATE  THE  GOD-DAMNED  LIGHTNING  ...  MAKE  IT  STOP...  DADDY.&quot;  Then:  &quot;'THE  LIGHTNING  WANTS  YOU,  DADDY  ...  GO  OUTSIDE  AND  LET  THE  LIGHTNING  GET  YOU  .  .  .  DADDY  ...  THE  LIGHTNING'S  MAD  AT  YOU  ..  .  DADDY.&quot;  He  won't  obey  her  today-with  company  here:  it  never  has  calmed  her  for  long.  He's  not  very  brave  in  her  cause  anymore  anyway.  But  he  laughs  courageously:  he's  brave  in  another  way,  denying  her  while  knowing  her  temper,  her  gift  for  outrage.  A  glare,  milky,  has  the  effect  that  we  and  the  stairs  are  completely  without  shadow.  That  flattens  the  planes  and  curves  of  our  faces  and  irons  out  the  folds  of  wood  and  of  carpet.  Nonie  shouts,  &quot;YOU  BASTARD.  I  [REDACTED]  YOU.  I  [REDACTED]  WHAT  IT  IS.  YOU  BASTARD.&quot;  &quot;Nonie,  sweetie.  God.  Oh,  Nonie  -God  damn  it-what's  the  matter?  Sweetie,  what's  wrong?&quot;  &quot;IT'S  IN  THE  HOUSE,  YOU  GO  STAND  ON  THE  LAWN,  YOU  GO  LET  " b" IT  BURN  YOU,  LET  IT  BURN  YOU  UP-  DADDY.&quot;  I  hold  Nonie's  hands.  Her  bones  are  loose  in  nets  of  muscle.  The  noise  of  tambourining  leaves  disappears  in  a  bass  halloo.  A  rod  of  wood  is  swiftly  rolled  shakingly  along  my  spine.  Nonie's  mouth  opens;  she's  forced  to  swallow  noise.  When  you  see  some-  one  at  an  absolute  physical  limit,  it  does  suggest  the  passing  over  a  line  to  deity.  Nonie  wants  to  shout,  but  we  have  company  in  the  house  downstairs.  Big-bodied  Daddy  and  Annemarie-  the  big-bodied  charac-  ters  here-haul  and  hustle  Nonie  along  the  upstairs  hall;  she's  howling  and  growling.  Nonie  breaks  loose,  Nonie  is  leaning  at  the  waist,  sideways,  a  little  backward  in  the  half-dark,  in  the  noise.  Now  we  push  her.  Now  we  have  her  in  the  bathroom.  Annemarie  has  gotten  Nonie's  pants  half  off  and  in  the  flexing  and  wriggling  of  Nonie's  buttocks,  big  and  pink-gray-  brown  in  the  muddy  light,  is  the  proof  of  the  abject  sincerity  of  her  terror,  even  though  her  finely  shaped  head  is  stiffly  erect-terror  is  discouraged  by  assertions  of  the  nothingness  of  the  humiliation.  A  point  of  white  light  across  a  bed-  room  at  a  window  speeds  and  blooms.  Faces  float.  The  rending  and  clatter  spread  Nonie's  face:  it's  painful  to  see  -people  sometimes  remark,  T  het  girl's  painfully  pretty.  She  says  in  a  really  crazed  way,  &quot;THE  LIGHTNING  DOESN'T  WANT  ME  -IT  WANTS  YOU,  YOU  MEAN  PIECE  OF  CRAP.&quot;  Daddy's  cheeks  are  scored  with  ef-  fort,  with  dry  tiredness.  Daddy  says,  &quot;Nonie,  Nonie,  stop  it-what  is  it?  Tell  me.  Listen  to  me.  What  are  you  scared  of?  It's  only  some  rain  and  a  little  noise  and  some  electricity  like  a  -a  flashlight-in  the  sky.&quot;  She  stares  at  him:  the  complexities  of  his  logic  are  walled  spirals,  which she  is  too  canny  to  admire  even  in  her  state  of  crazed,  involuntary  terror.  &quot;GO  AWAY.  I  DON'T  WANT  YOU  NEXT  TO  ME.  IT  WANTS  YOU.  YOU  GO.  LEAVE  ME  ALONE.&quot;  Daddy  gets  tired  of  the  slyness  and  temper  and  selfishness  in  this  sort  of  women's  heroism,  so  to  speak.  He  holds  her  arm  firmly  and  gives  her  a  very  little  shake:  &quot;You  try  to  get  hold  of  yourself,  Nonie.  You  be  a  lady,  now.&quot;  Nonie  doesn't  listen;  she  almost  never  listens:  she  eavesdrops  face  to  face.  It's  her  tactic  to  believe  women  are  what'smoral:  the  unreligious  part:  a  measure  (they're  soft  flesh-solace  and  amusement;  they  make  up  for  God's  being  what  he  is).  The  woman  says,  I'm  more  than  God-Daddy,  go  meet  your  death  and  Maker  and  say  Howjado.  And:  Do  you  love  me?  Are  you  my  father?  Daddy  is  tired  of  both  those  things.  Daddy  looks  into  her  eyes;  he  hasa  jutting,  determined  posture  of  his  face,  a  set  of  postures  that  slide  finally  into  an  obliquity  of  address:  he  often  speaks  before  her  and  not  to  her,  which  seems  a  witch's  triumph  that  she  has-it's  an  odd  privilege  or  rank  with  him  that  she  has;  but  now  he's  talking  to  her,  except,  ultimately,  he's  sure  of  her  be-  cause  she's  a  female:  &quot;Listen  to  me.  No  one's  hurting  you.&quot;  &quot;I  [REDACTED]  WHO  I  AM.&quot;  That  is,  she  knows  what's  going  on  and  she  would  like  to  call  on  certain  facts  of  biogra-  phyand  of  social  reality:  I'm  Nore  Silemowicz,  aged  eleven  (thirteen);  I  live  at  home  with  my  parents:  home  is  4  Vista  Drive;  you  leave  me  alone.  Don't  you  know  who  I  am?  I  just  told  you-are  you  too  dumb  to  catch  on?  I'm  not  exactly  a  big-brain  type  of  person,  I'm  not  real  booky,  but  I  get  she  point  and  you  don't  seem  to.  I'm  nota  creep.  I  love  sports,  do  you!  Don't  get  too  funny.  Just  maybe  my  familycan  handle  you.  We  can  get  you  thrown  in  prison.  &quot;HELP  ME,  DADDY,  PM  A  GOOD  GIRL.&quot;  &quot;I  know  you  are,  sweetie.&quot;  She  yells,  &quot;OH,  AH,  YAH-AH;&quot;  that  is,  she  argues  for  a  moment  sheerly  as  a  girl  yelling-if  she  was  that  noisy  and  that  upset,  then  something  was  wrong;  you  were  supposed  to  help  her-this  was  a  serious  argument,  an  earnest  one.  Her  eyes  are  screwed  into  being  " b" maybe  three-quarters  shut,  and  yet  they're  peering;  she's  not  totally  de-  feated;  her  eyes  have  nutty  angles  of  vision;  they're  also  twitching  and  an-  gry;  but  they  function  still;  they  have  a  childish  obstinacy  of  function.  In  her  terror,  this  terror.  &quot;I  DON'T  HATE  MYSELF,  DADDY!&quot;  she  screams.  She's  been  in  treatment  with  psy-  chologists,  who  try  to  help  her  be  happy.  Her  warm  thighs,  stickily  pressed  together,  tremble  syncopatedly.  Daddy  says,  &quot;Nonie,  it's  like  a  knife  in  my  God-damned  heart.  My  heart  is  breaking.  Oh,  honey,  can't  you  get  hold  of  yourself?&quot;  He's  not  thinking,  he's  being  un-  calculating,  it's  on  purpose:  he's  being  warm;  he's  not  judging  or  guessing  or  seeing  through  her-it's  an  effort.  His  face  gets  a  little  pudgy,  cloudlike  with  warm  foolishness-it's  for  her  sake,  for  everyone's.  She  sees,  she  partly  grasps  it-Be-foolish-for-me-his  story  isn't  congruent  with  hers,  with  Nonie's  story.  She  stares  at  him.  Daddy  says,  &quot;Here,  honey,  want  some  love  out  of  my  pocket?  I  have  a  whole  lot  of  love  right  here.  Just  put  your  hand  in  and  dig  it  out.  It's  all  just  waiting  for  you.&quot;  Love  rests  on  illusion,  they  say-  that's  one  ofLila's  remarks.  I  cen  face  it,  Lila  said;  can  you!?  Nonie's  jumping  around,  wincing,  agonized.  \xc2\xab&quot;YOU  GO  TO  HELL.  YOU  HAVE  TO  GO  TO  HELL.&quot;  It's  not  clear  what  she  means,  why  he  has  to,  for  her  sake  or  because  of  his  vices,  or  his  having  failed  her,  or  in  order  to  save  her,  or  what.  She  shouts,  &quot;THE  DEVIL  WANTS  YOU  RIGHT  Now!&quot;  Annemarie  tells  me,  &quot;Don't  look,  Liebchen.&quot;  The  sin,  the  being  an  ani-  mal,  a  little  animal,  and  ashamed  and  disliked  by  everyone-well,  don't  look,  except  medically:  to  exorcise  or  to  quarantine  or  to  help.  Annemarie  is  pious.  Daddy's  sad  look  of  affection  says  that  Nonie  is  crazy  now.  Nonie,  alert,  shouts,  &quot;TM  A  GOOD  GIRL,  PM  NICE!&quot;  She  shouts  it  aeccusingly.  Knots  of  nerves  in  her  skull  skitter  shrilly:  in  the  prepubescent,  pudgy,  pink-thighed  girl  are  facts  of  night-  mare  trafficked  in,  com-  promised-compromised  butnot  a  joke.  Her  in-  tensity  is  the  size  of  the  warning,  ofthe  emer-  gency.  Such  meaning  won't  condense,  won't  distill.  She  shouts:  the  ef-  fect  she  wants  is  to  re-  produce  in  you  what's  in  her:  but  in  a  family  what  does  she  mean  by  that?  &quot;I  know  it,&quot;  he  says;  &quot;I  know  it,  honey.&quot;  What  does  he  mean?  Her  consciousness  dives  and  races  along;  it's  not  big,  her  con-  sciousness;  it's  mostly  eyesight  and  speed  how  she  squints  and  wiggles:  ferocity  of  en-  deavor  is  her  emblem.  She  flies  along,  flat-out  and  pure-without  pain  in  this  sense:  pure  indomitability-and  complaint:  that's  a  sys-  tem.  She  shouts,  &quot;I  HAVE  GOOD  INSTINCTS,  DADDY.&quot;  Is  she  advertising  herself?  No;  yes.  But  she  also  means,  Listen  to  me.  And:  I  will  win-or  is  it:  I  will  win  if  you  help  me?  She's  in  a  rush.  Is  it  English  she  speaks,  Nonie-  dialect?  In  this  tribe,  you  have  to  have  a  split  and  blobbing  tongue.  Other  people  say  the  same  words  as  Nonie  but  they  mean  something  else,  so  it's  not  the  seme  words.  Nonie  shouts,  &quot;TM  A  GOOD  GIRL.&quot;  II  UGGING  me,  whispering  in  my  ear;  we're  on  the  porch:  another  time:  it  is  four  o'clock,  a  summer  day  -&quot;I'm  a  good  girl,&quot;  someone  pure-  a  good  girl-the  meaning-of-this  in  the  sunshine  is  that  something  pure  doesn't  hurt  you,  she's  pure,  and  what-  ever  she  does  to  you,  whatever  you  think  about  it,  you're  not  hurt.  The  whisper  in  my  ear  partly  means  her  feelings  weren't  hurt  by  Katie  Rogers  or  by  Ida  Nicholson  Gray-a  grownup-or  by  Momma;  and  that  Nonie  hates  Ida  and  Momma  and  Ka-  " b"tie  because  they  make  the  world  impure  one  way  or  another.  She's  not  like  them:  she's  blameless,  she's  perfect-if  you  don't  agree,  she  has  a  right  to  hurt  you  for  hurting  her.  ...  Perhaps  she  is  day-  dreaming,  pretending.  She  vaguely  intends  to  make  you  wise  in  regard  to  her  purity.  &quot;I'm  nice.&quot;  She's  pure  and  unhurt  and  unhurt-  able,  she  means.  Nonie  pinches  me-a  hieroglyph,  an  ideogram,  an  idiocy,  a  poem  on  this  subject:  if  I  cry  out,  I'm  not  pure,  I'm  hurt;  she  has  hurt  me  because  I  distrusted  her;  and  the  proof  of  my  treachery  is  that  I  am  hurt.  She  will  hug  and  stroke  me,  and  make  me  pure  now.  She's  redeem-  ing  me.  She's  recruiting  me.  Purity  is  smoothness,  invulnerability  (inviola-  bility),  and  conceit  toward  others.  Also,  it  is  sweetness-in  some  cases,  in  me,  for  instance,  itis  turning  the  other  cheek.  In  her,  purity  is  satisfaction,  is  satisfied  appetite.  She  kisses  me,  she  kisses  the  kid,  and  holds  him  -at  arm's  length  and  won't  let  me  move  successfully-getting  what  you  want,  and  no  onecan  get  even  with  you  for  it,  orbe  jealous,  that's  purity,  that's  being  good-and  middle-class.  You  are  a  person  who's  pure,  and,  therefore,  are  unpunished  for  what  you  do.  If  I  want  something  from  Nonie,  if  I  wriggle  and  try  to  escape,  I-I-am  impure  by  definition:  it's  an  appetite  in  me:  see  her  startled  and  seeing-  through-me  eyes  as  I  do  this,  her  flut-  tering  scorn  that  I  expect  something  of  her.  We're  on  the  porch;  Annemarie  is  at  work  in  the  kitchen.  Nonie  looks  at  me  that  way  (with  moral  scorn).  Being  fond  of  people  is  a  good  disci-  pline,  Lila's  said  more  than  once.  Lila  has  said,  [REDACTED]  lies  to  Nonie,  and  you  know  what  they  say  the  outcome  of  lies  is.  What  does  he  expect  to  happen?  She  has  to  figure  out  everything  for  herself.  A  young  girl's  life  is  terrible  one  way  or  the  other,  but  no  one  pays  attention.  Well,  she  won't  listen  to  me-I'm  not  to  her  tastes  lately.  If's  aphase.  No:  it  was  lifelong.  If  she  wants  a  stay-at-home,  plain-Jane  mother-and  she  won't  settle  for  what  the  cat  dragged  in  (which  is  me)-   then  I  guess  she'll  just  have  to  suffer,  take  it  or  leave  it.  I'm  the  only  mother  she  has.  We  have  a  local  form  of  childhood.  A  dog  scampers  sidelong,  crazy-  jawed,  across  the  lawn.  &quot;Look  at  that  crazy  dog,&quot;  Nonie  says.  Nonie  likes  praise  that  is  extreme,  that  is  enthusi-  asm  plus  a  loud  silence  in  regard  to  any  qualifications  of  the  praise:  It  was  great,  it  was  really  great,  it  was  perfect,  you're  perfect,  you  know  that,  you're  just  absolutely  perfect.  &quot;You're  perfectly  lovely,&quot;  she  says  to  the  child,  and  regards  him.  &quot;Want  a  glass  of  milk?  I  think  that  dog  be-  longs  to  poor  people.&quot;  Poor  people  are  cowards  and  bullies  toward  people  like  us-everyone  knows  that.  Ipso  dipso  facto  ficto.  Daddy  wants  Nonie  to  be  happy:  Stay  away  from  grownups,  darling;  you  can't  tell  about  them;  sometimes  they  like  to  make  you  feel  bad.  Nonie  says,  Momma's  like  that.  Nonie  is  well  bred,  high-strung  (Momma  says).  She  doesn't  get  along  with  popular  children;  she  can't  hold  her  own  with  them;  no  one  likes  being  overshadowed.  Wiley,  listen  to  me;  I  give  good  advice:  no  one  likes  to  be  outshone-they'll  kill  you  if  it  bothers  them  enough.  Nonie  likes  nervous,  soft-mannered  kids  with  some  social  glamour:  she'll  pick  a  girl  or  boy  with  a  noticeably  behindhand,  peripheral  social  beauty.  Doesn't  she  know  any  better?  Nonie  only  likes  people  who  can't  possibly  like  her  once  they  get  to  know  her.  Once  their  luck  changes,  they  turn  on  her,  and  she  deserves  it,  she  asks  for  it,  and  the  fat  is  in  the  fire  and  I  have  to  pay  the  piper.  Momma  often  sighs;  she  has  a  repertoire  of  good  sighs-very  different  kinds.  This  one  is  pigeony,  cooish.  Doesn't  Nonie  know  who  she  is?  Nonie  learns  little  from  the  passive  kids  she  likes;  she  imitates  them  badly.  Momma  says,  We  have  an  ordinary  middle-class  household.  A  portrait.  Nonie  doesn't  like  to  listen  to  what  anyone  says-she  evades  the  intentions  of  speech;  as  stated  before,  she  eaves-  drops  face  to  face  as  a  general  rule.  She's  maybe  ordinery  morally-  Momma  has  said  that's  the  best  possi-  ble  claim  for  Nonie:  she's  ordinary  and  like  everyone  else,  so  good-and-normal  it  hurts.  (I'm  shouting  in  a  vacuum;  no  one  listens  to  me,  Momma  said.  Only  Wi-  ley-sometimes.)  Nonie's  happiness  is  universally  de-  sired  by  theoreticians,  by  decent  peo-  ple.  Universally.  When  she's  crushed,  if  she's  shat-  tered-Momma's  words  and  Nonie's  -Nonie  says,  in  an  agonized  and  an-  gry  tone,  &quot;TM  ALL  RIGHT.&quot;  That  may  mean  she's  given  up  or  is  about  to.  When  she  is  defeated,  she  says,  if  " b"asked,  &quot;I'm  fine,  thank  you,&quot;  and  blinks  and  turns  away  if  she  doesn't  want  you  to  notice  and  she  stares  at  you  if  she  does  want  you  to  notice-  she  makes  you  be  quiet,  though.  You  notice,  but  you  have  to  be  quiet.  If  she's  hurt  badly  enough,  honesty  sets  in.  Then  something  in  her  widens-  her  consciousness  maybe-and  she's  private  and  soft,  even  if  a  little  shrill  in  pitch  but  sometimes  not  even  that:  she's  vulnerable,  out  of  control:  not  evil:  defeated-gentle:  not  lyingly-maybe  as  an  em-  blem  or  result  of  Evil,  but  she  seems  to  be  good  then  .  ..  When  I'm  drawn  to  Nonie  when  she's  in  that  state,  in  some  version  of  it,  she  sometimes  turns  on  me  to  show  I'm  a  sucker  and  she's  stronger,  she's  getting  strong  again.  When  she's  defeated  or  hurt,  half  nice  or  the  whole  thing,  she  is  sexual,  private,  human,  not  shrewd-know-  ing  about  it  in  her,  feeling  it  in  her,  the  sound  of  it  while  it's  happening  near  me,  the  feeling  in  my  head  of  being  near  a  secret  part  of  Nonie,  her  weird  self  in  this  moment,  I  like  her  a  lot.  She  knows  it.  She  holds  my  hand  moistly.  Her  hurt  causes  a  ripe  propri-  ety  of  soul  and  demeanor  in  her.  This  is  one  reason  she's  interested  in  hurt,  because  of  what  happens  to  her  then-  the  sort  of  grace  that  comes  toher.  Similarly,  she  wants  to  see  the  fimest  part  of  someone.  A  theory.  Her  physi-  cal  sense  of  the  world,  of  herself,  is  stronger  than  her  mental  sense  of  her-  self  and  of  things,  despite  the  way  her  hands  don't  know  the  feel  of  the  world  as  well  as  her  wits  do.  She  lives  be-  tween  the  round  folds  of  her  thighs;  she  is  physically  aware,  she  is  caught  in  the  fleshy  constrictions  and  aware-  nessesof  the  inside  of  her  mouth  and  throat-she  drinks  water  with  elabo-  rate  and,  to  me,  ornamental  gluttony.  Flesh  overlaps  flesh  and  forms  pockets,  companionable,  not  clanking  but  noisy  in  a  way  for  her.  And  then  there's  the  reality  of  her  toes  down  there.  The  physical  is  familiar  to  her,  a  place  of  automatic  diversion.  Hurt  is  always  partly  physical;  it  infiltrates  her  flesh,  the  pockets-places  of  registry  of  her-  self-in  real  life,  waking  life.  The  inside-the-oyster  pearl-and-pink  hind  end,  in  your  clothes  or  naked,  is  the  exposed  heart  of  flesh-the  key  to  at-  tentiveness:  to  confession;  one  is  driven  to  touch  the  finest  part:  a  thrill.  Look:  here's  something:  she's  fallen  asleep  while  hugging  me.  I  step,  I     move,  tinily,  into  another  realm  of  observation:  sleep  covers  her  pink  face  with  a  smooth  look  like  doors;  Nonie  is  ELSEWHERE.  Her  eyelids  are  skin  with  no  fleshy  stuff  under  them-but  animal  noses  twitch  and  sniff  at  dead  eyes  there.  Little  snores,  bleached  del-  phiniums  of  breath  rise  from  her  mouth,  stalks  and  bells  above  the  small  vortex  at  the  insuck  of  her  lips.  Giant  girl-her  ribs  are  muffled  spans,  the  handles  of  ladles,  big,  big  spoons,  faintly  vibrant.  All  this  lies  against  me:  she's  hugging  me.  She  is-ELSEWHERE.  She  is  in  the  mysterious  horn  of  sleep,  running  inside  a  rolling  egg.  I  struggle  to  get  free,  I  push  at  her  arms,  I  tug,  I  rub  and  wiggle  against  her  -chest-I  put  my  mouth  on  her  chin  and  I  bite  her.  I  suck  her  breath,  the  bits  of  private  air,  the  private  delphiniums,  scratchy  grasses.  Suddenly  she  awakes-she  looks  at  me.  It's  Nonie.  Nonie's  eyes.  A  form  of  speech-do  you  under-  stand?  This  is  like  any  look,  this  is  in  every  look  that  she  gave  me-we  have  years  in  which  we  don't  look  into  each  other's  eyes:  it's  pointless;  but  it's  not  like  that  yet.  Her  being  wakeful,  like  every  qual-  ity  of  THIS  GIRL,  has  a  foreign  tonal-  ity,  often  silvery  and  thin-elf  traits;  ghost  droppings;  animal  acts;  leaf  noises  in  a  wood  which  can't  be  identi-  fied,  which  signify  an  unknown  life.  Her  breath  doesn't  have  the  weight  of  Daddy's  or  Momma's  speechy  mur-  murousness,  of  their  pale  groans  or  sighs  that  tip  suddenly  like  seesaws  into  shadows,  into  the  nighttime  and  me  eavesdropping  without  the  hope  of  understanding  anything.  Nonie's  face  is  complex  because  Nonie's  here-  hands,  pink  body,  moods,  these  multi-  ply  and  are  the  opposite  of  isolation,  are  implication,  a  tangle  of  possibili-  ties,  snakes  or  shrews  in  a  thicket,  cottonmouth  ora  hunting  cat,  the  proximity  of  Evil  from  the  beginning.  Her  presence  is  rhetorical  in  a  spare  language.  The  five  public  senses  are  facades  breathing  mood,  an  architec-  ture  of  seduction,  of  menace.  This  isn't  play,  this  isn't  just  play,  it's  real:  Hey,  were  you  lonely?  Did  you  dream  of  a  playmate?  Look,  this  is  a  dream  come  true,  this  is  for  real.  I'm  the  boss  -I'm  the  older  sister.  ...  A  deal.  Is  it  a  deal?  Her  hug,  her  clayey  arms,  her  tenderness,  her  ribs,  her  head,  her  tickling,  finely  pretty  hair,  her  affec-  tion  are  a  limited  speech,  opening  onto  a  large-scale  babble:  common  sense. Her  eyes  and  mine  are  as  if  in  a  piazza.  The  locked  gazes  form  a  piazza  of  apparent  and  mutual  consciousness;  awareness  is  echoing  and  returned,  amplified-a  proper  blackmail:  her  size  and  physical  power-Nonie's  be-  ing  Nonie  here-the  world  hasa  sud-  den  fluttering  tenderness,  foulness,  Nonie  style.  I  have  no  choice:  the  child's  drowning.  His  face  is  parkland,  grass,  airy  vistas;  or  a  flock  of  pigeons;  or  a  house;  or  bells,  slim  fires;  secrets  expressed  as  films  of  wordlessness-a  landscape  of  altered  and  fluctuating  noises  of  response,  attachment;  a  lis-  tening:  perhaps  the  child  is  noticeably  male  for  Nonie,  a  weight  of  foreign-  ness,  a  genetic  glistening.  She  moves;  she  grips  me  in  the  unfinished,  barely  begun  web  of  her  arms-a  species  of  passion?  Ho!  Or  minor  rape-I  turn  and  twist,  I  subside  against  her  puffed  chest;  she  lifts  her  prisoner-Her  Pris-  oner.  We  go  sit  creakingly  in  a  white  wicker  chair  among  the  columns  and  screens  of  a  wooden  porch.  We  are  in  a  drifting  light;  the  chair  creaks,  a  plunging  elephant;  Nonie  swings  her  legs:  a  game:  I  drop  through  her  legs:  I  yell:  Nonie  grips  me  between  her  thighs,  then  between  her  calves-I  grunt-I  lean  backward,  and  the  bones  of  her  ankles  bongle-thagg  my  ribs.  I  drop  to  the  floor.  I'm  free-she  grips  my  wrist-her  hair  hangs  ticklingly,  brightly.  Is  shebored?  It's  hot;  a  fly  is  caught  in  the  girl's  other  hand,  a  curled  fist;  the  buzzing  is  con-  stant,  it  grows  louder,  swifter-I  twitch.  Nonie  says,  &quot;Die,  fy-  die-ee-ee.&quot;  Her  fist  is  at  my  ear,  shak-  en,  a  gourd,  an  instruction:  I  hear  an  insect  skeleton  snap.  Nonie  puts  the  snapped  bug  on  my  shoulder.  &quot;I'm  your  mother;  you  have  to  do  what  I  says;  wear  this&quot;  epaulet-  &quot;you  have  to  wear  that.&quot;  I  push  it  off.  Her  lips  touch  my  nose,  she  bites  me  swiftly,  in  a  flush  ofrosied  hate,  an  eagerness.  I  stiffen;  my  soft  fists  clench;  I  hunch  over  and  she  stops;  she  lifts  me;  we  go  down  some  stepsto  the  grass;  we  sit  on  the  grass  in  si-  lence,  among  midges  and  yellow  discs:  &quot;Those  are  butter.&quot;  Then  Nonie  pushes  my  face  toward  the  dandelions:  &quot;Lick  the  butter,  Wileykins.&quot;  I  twist  my  head,  wriggle,  get  free:  I  stare  at  her.  She  leans  closer  to  me-I  bat  her  nose-she  places  her  firm,  fat  leg  over  my  folded  legs  to  hold  me  while  she  makes  a  dandelion  wreath.  &quot;You're  just  a  wild  man,  you're  just  so  bad  we  don't  know  what  to  do  with  you.&quot;  I  don't  have  to  listen  to  her.  I  don't  have  to  hear  the  tones.  I  don't  have  to  " b"know  hers  to  be  now  an  exploratory  malice.  No  one  else  here  speaks  to  me  with  this  immediacy  of  Evil.  The  promise  of  having  a  separate  soul,  re-  sponsibility,  my  own  life  lies  in  Evil-  which  is  secret.  &quot;You're  a  bed  little  prince.&quot;  And:  &quot;Here.&quot;  She  bestows  the  diadem,  and  then,  after  a  while,  yanks  it  over  my  eyes-I  am  inside  the  wreath,  inside  the  act:  I  don't  know  what's  happened,  what's  happening.  Here  is  yellow  light,  here  are  yellow  shadows.  I  sit.  I'm  naked  in  this  part  of  the  day;  the  child  is  naked,  dusted  with  faithful  suburban  light.  &quot;What  a  pretty  pair  of  children!&quot;  I'm  hugged;  my  head  is  forced  to  a  weird  angle.  Locked  into  her  affections,  the  prey  of  some  sentience  of  hers  about  what  is  real,  I  fight.  See  thekid  push  at  her  unfurry,  slidey,  technically  fond  arms.  She  pulls  me  close:  '&quot;'Wiley  adores  me.  See,  he  loves  me.&quot;  &quot;Don't  hurt  her  feelings,  kiddo.  Stay  with  Nonie.&quot;  &quot;You've  made  a  conquest,  Wiley.  She's  crazy  about  you.&quot;  The  mysterious  potencies  of  what  I  am,  which  include  the  way  I  look,  lie  like  cut  flowers  in  the  baskets  of  her  head,  her  chest.  Jesus:  the  mad  and  silent  child  (&quot;He's  a  beauty;  he's  a  real  winner&quot;).  The  child's  sombreness  and  force  are  lunatic,  noiseless.  Here  come  her  arms:  I'm  between  her  legs:  her  eyes,  nostrils,  mouth-and  mine-ap-  ertures,  heat,  childhood.  I  saw  her  beata  dog  to  death.  Like  a  farm  woman.  A  heroine.  This  is  the  way  I  am:  I  play  dumb,  or  sleepy,  or  waitful.  If  I'm  too  know-  ing,  someone  says,  He's  mischie-  vi-ous,  or  He's  a  tease;  he's  teasing  her;  he's  teasing  you,  hon.  Her  eyes  do  a  Nonie  thing:  curiosity,  pain  are  mixed:  curiosity  starts  as  part  of  a  deficiency;  it  is  an  extension  of  an  ache.  Nonie  will  squeeze  me  so  hard  that  I  go  airless  and  briefly  shameless,  limp;  she  will  lie  on  me  while  I  struggle  to  breathe  and  to  get  free  until  my  strug-  gling  tapers  off,  and  then  we  gasp,  almost  in  unison.  Is  this  an  uncor-  rected  foulness  or  is  this  a  merely  hu-  man  thing?  Her  face  is  reluctant,  ob-  tuse.  She  hasa  smell  of  wakefulness,  a  stench.  Is  this  a  TORTURE!  I'm  clutched  in  her  smelly  arms  near  her  childlike  breath.  Nonie  interprets  the  world  to  me.  I  have  asense  of  union  with  her,  an  odd  form  of  transport,  a  childhood  pleasure.  &quot;Are  you  happy?&quot;  she  asks  me  in  a  dry,  earnest,  menacing  way.  &quot;I  want  us  to  be  happy.&quot;  Nonie  says,  &quot;I  want  everyone  to  be  happy-I  want  everyone  to  be  happy  so  they'll  be  nice.&quot;  She  is  politically  serious  when  she  says  this.  Her  politics  govern  many  of  the  ways  in  which  we  are  lovers.  I  feel  the  wind  at  my  ear.  Nonie's  over  there  in  the  sunlight  on  the  tennis  court  under  the  blue  sky,  with  two  dibbie  clouds  in  it  and  two  sour  crows  ashriek.  Her  shoulders  are  hiked  up;  she  holds  her  racquet  stiffly;  she  crouches;  her  legs  swell  and  bend  and  she  runs  sidlingly:  Look  at  the  deer  thing  run-she's  quite  a  good  little  competitor.  She  has  the  rapid  postures  of  physical  concentration  that  are  pos-  sible  for  her  when  she  competes,  when  she  is  revved  up,  when  she  is  playing  with  her  full  will.  But  she's  not  good  enough-the  sports  talk  is  Poor  Thing,  she's  dying  on  her  feet,  Nomie's  being  just  slaughtered  out  there,  she's  in  over  her  head.  ...  Sweat  lies  in  the  folds  of  her  skin.  The  intricate  wind  guides  and  deflects,  raises  and  stymies  and  presses  on  the  flight  of  the  ball.  Nomie  is  mot  in  her  league  here-this  is  a  serious  matter.  OOK:  The  Silenowiczes  don't  have  and  can't  get-they'll  try,  but  they  can't  do  it-a  similar  commit-  ment  to  Wiley  as  a  conduit  of  genetics,  let's  say,  traits  of  his  passed  along,  a  family  line  expanded  and  multiplied,  as  they  do,  willy-nilly,  to  Nonie.  It  is  possible  that  they  &quot;love&quot;  me,  and  more,  far  more,  than  their  daughter  or  anyone  else,  &quot;love&quot;  here  as  feeling-  amusement  and  also  wanting-to-be-  with-but  not  love  as  the  power  and  full  strangeness  of  alliance,  of  compe-  tition,  of  serious  blackness.  The  Silenowiczes  were  told  again  and  again  and  again  and  again  that  they  can't  care  what  becomes  of  me  as  someone  can  who's  of  the  same  blood.  Blood?  Do  we  have  to  see  some  blood  soon?  Whose  child  am  I?I  am  there  for  the  sake  of  these  people's  happiness  (so  to  speak),  not  their  or  my  or  my  real  mother's  lineage;  they  are  not  loyal  to  what's  found  in  me:  why  the  hell  should  they  be?  They  love  me  passionately-Our  life  was  you,  our  whole  life,  of  and  on,  and  for  a  while  you  liked  that.  No  matter  how  feelingly  they  care,  I  will  never  exist  in  certain  ways  for  them-and  nothing  is  compensated  for:  it  is  a  convenience  to  say  this  balances  that:  it  has  nothing  to  do  with  it  to  say  that  otherwise  the  child  would  not  have  lived-perheps.  I  had  my  audience  early;  they  were  attached  to  what  I  meant  to  them-in  actual  moments,  always  e  #ow,  a  romance.  I  am  expendable  to  them  in  a  way  a  son  of  theirs  could  not  have  been-my  lovers:  not  my  family.  I  don't  know  that  a  family  sense  is  much  different:  it's  less  clear,  certainly.  I  have  no  family  sense.  This  gives  a  glitter  to  everything  I  know-and  feel.  NONIE  is  closed  in,  as  it  were,  on  three  sides,  or  two,  and  open  only  on  one,  and  I  am  open  all  around.  Nonie  has  sweaty,  slightly  spread  legs;  her  thighs,  her  crotch-she's  aware  of  heat  in  them.  Wiley,  I  don't  ever  want  to  think  you're  jealous  of  her.  I  can't  as  a  general  rule  locate  my  cruelty  toward  others;  it  tends  to  lie  in  my  acting  on  acknowledgments  of  su-  periority  in  me.  If  I'm  smarter  than  you,  why  don't  you  listento  me?  I  tend  to  display  virtues  rather  than  to  take  on  obligations-a  child,  a  younger  one,  adopted,  piratic,  unrooted.  I  ran  out  on  the  court.  &quot;GET  HIM  AWaAY!  I  DON'T  WANT  HIM  NoW!  GET  HIM  AWAY  FROM  ME!&quot;  &quot;Wiley,  don't  do  that!&quot;  I  hit  Nonie  a  number  of  times  in  childhood-never  with  male  embar-  rassment  or  a  boy'sregret  or  that  vile  remorse  of  what-have-I-done.  I  felt  satisfaction,  a  sense  of  order-a  sense  of  symmetry  sated  by  a  feeling  of  de-  cency  at  hitting  her-this  is  a  truth:  I  admit  it.  Nonie  disgusts  me.  Nonie,  when  she  strikes  at  someone,  feels  it  to  be  JUSTICE.  I'm  below  and  behind  and  ahead  and  high  above  her  in  a  dark  space,  ablack  sky-without  team  spirit,  contemplating  her  sense  of  JUSTICE.  She  runs  inside  the  airy  globe  of  my  sight  at  this  minute.  She  is  on  the  ten-  nis  court.  She  will  never  know  about  this  representa-  Aeid.  tion  of  herself  as  something  in  nature  both  immediate  and  recalled.  &quot;Whee!&quot;  she  says.  Her  speech  does  not  represent  the  life  in  her  except  as  a  contradiction  of  what  she  hides  inside  herself.  She  shouts,  even  so.  I  dislike  orhate  her  because  she  hit  me  on  the  arm  with  her  tennis  racquet  while  Daddy  dragged  me  off  the  tennis  court.  I  must  sit  here  and  watch  her  play.  The  pockets  of  her  flesh  move  me.  The  ball  in  one  flight  has  ninety-nine  positions  of  ghost  readiness  and  then  an  arc  of  accusa-  tion:  You  better  hit  me-an  accusation  " b"means  itself  plus,  unspoken,  Hit  me,  since  everyone  fights  back  or  falls  to  one  side.  Nonie  hears  time's  soon-to-  be-changed  sportive  accusation  and  test  questions  and  score  in  her  head.  She  hears,  she  feels  the  heat  of  the  afternoon.  She  sees  and  hears  and  feels  the  flight-of-the-ball-the  ghost-tails,  cherubic  ghost-heads  of  the  arcing  ball  fill  her  sight-her  foresight,  her  pow-  ers  of  prediction.  Look:  Without  en-  mity,  she  has  no  edge;  she's  not  solid  in  her  game;  she's  cloudy,  overweight  -strange.  Do  you  forgive  her?  Why  can't  you  forgive  her?  She's  slowed  in  the  weird  geometric  set  pieces  of  her  emotions  and  of  her  faith  in  things,  as  in  a  dream  in  which  motion  is  recalci-  trant  and  her  screaming  is  interdicted  and  her  only  safety  is  in  rescue  by  something  outside  the  machinery  of  this  particular  episode.  By  justice,  or  luck  in  a  disguise.  Let  her  fight  back.  Let  me.  Her  sense  of  the  court,  the  battleground-my  sense  of  ecstasy-  form  a  sunshiny,  heat-struck  outdoors  rhythm.  Is  it  the  game,  the  remem-  bered  game?  She  speeds,  quickened,  deadened  in  consciousness,  narrowed  to  the  game:  she  escapes  me.  I  want  her,  Nonie,  for  my  own  purposes:  my  feelings  want  her  to  sit  still  now.  She  proceeds  in  the  unforgiving  in-  dignation  of  her  art  in  sports.  Her  mind  is  on  top  of-a  healthy  body.  Her  dearest  treasure,  her  weapon,  her  soul,  her  prize  of  competition  and  ri-  valry,  is  her  body  below:  her  mind  is  no  trophy:  it's  hers:  her  admiration  is  loathsome:  her  mind  rises  on  the  flail-  ing  arms,  pivoting  torso,  chuffing  and  then  braced  and  then  scuttling  legs,  like  a  perched  dragonfly  on  a  brick  colossus,  in  a  space  of  great  ice,  great  cold.  Inside  a  sheltered  dome,  a  brain-  pan  mosaicked  with  visions,  the  motto,  the  point  is  lodged:  Wiley  can't  hurt  me,  things  can't  hurt  me.  A  victory  is  to  the  girl's  wakefulness  as  a  dream  is  to  her  consciousness  asleep.  Life  is  explained  in  an  intensely  theatrical  (a  directed)  light.  4-2,  Lisa-it's  not  credible  that  Nonie  should  lose,  and  be  without  meaning.  She  will  be  an  ordinariness  -a  matter  only  of  sentimental  report.  Nonie  is  trying.  But  Lisa  finds  it  apparently  easy  to  tip  Nonie  into  a  rubbish  heap  of  miscalcula-  tions,  the  frenzied  clumsiness  of  someone  who  doesnot  matter  as  a  force  but  who  will  not  give  in  yet.  Such  contradiction  between  will  and  result  lays  bare  the  presence  of  meaning-usu-  ally  unwanted.  Unprepared  for.  So  this  is  what  it  is  to  end  up  badly.  Help,  help.  Daddy  says  under  his  breath,  &quot;Our  girl  ain't  lookin'  too  good.  Well,  there's  other  things  in  life  besides  win-  ning.&quot;  In  the  text  I  have  failed  to  supply  here-Nonie's  Book  of  Pity  for  Her-  self,  Nonie's  Sadness,  Nonie's  Chari-  ties  Toward  Her  Will,  Her  Life-  among  the  victories  she  does  not  gain,  Nonie's  mind  is  described  as  an  agency  of  discipline  beating  with  mad  persis-  tence  at  a  single  point,  beating  herself  into  a  single  point,  then  that  single  point  against  the  adamancy  of  being  eighth-rate,  against  odds  and  defeat,  perpetually  turning  its  sharpest  side  outward.  All  her  truths  are  secret-all.  When  she  killed  the  dog,  the  boys  and  the  other  girl  egged  each  other  on  to  strike;  oneboy  was  dogmatic,  exas-  perated:  &quot;IPs  probably  DISEASED.&quot;  Nonie,  mostly  silent,  spoke  twice  as  if  she  were  the  leader.  &quot;Here  we  go.&quot;  Then,  during  the  execution:  &quot;It  just  has  to  be  done.&quot;  She  struck  firmly  with  a  half-clutched  half  brick;  her  eyelids  were  lowered  partway,  they  fluttered;  she  peered  and  didn't  look,  both;  her  nose  was  wrinkled  at  first.  A  rope  had  been  wound  around  and  around  the  dog's  legs  and  then  around  a  tree  trunk  and  then  under  the  dog's  belly  and  over  its  ribs  and  its  back  haunches  and  around  its  neck  so  that  its  head  was  held,  loosely,  against  the  rough  hide  of  the  tree  skin.  The  sounds  of  breath-the  dog  didn't  bark-the  sounds  of  the  blows:  a  childhood  thing.  The  squish  of  the  pelt:  struck  bone.  As  if  politely,  Nonie  struck  the  dog  on  its  ribs  first,  far  from  the  center  points  of  the  senses,  but  she  saw  that  that  was  a  girl  thing,  as  in  Watch  out  for  its  eyes-or  ears.  She's  concen-  trating;  she's  goddesslike.  Her  temper-  ament,  her  uncertain  temperament,  rests  uneasily  in  these  areas  of  life  and  death  from  which  girls  are  unfairly  excluded,  excluded  from  open  and  from  secret  discussions  of  this  stuff.  She  held  her  neck  stiffly,  her  head  back  as  if  to  mimic  and  understand  the  mus-  culature  and  terror  and  courage  of  the  dog:  she  goes  berserk  over  ideas  of     good-and-evil,  of  justice,  of  I-like-it-  and-I-don't-like-it-the  permitted  id-  ioms-sometimes  with  phony  inno-  cence,  or  ignorance,  girlish,  useful,  a  cover  story  for  a  bloodied  agent.  She  struck  at  the  forehead,  at  the  squelchy  fur  and  bone.  She  struck  at  the  jellied  eye  and  called  out,  &quot;Oh,&quot;  and  then  she  boasted,  &quot;I  hit  it  in  the  eye.&quot;  Nonie,  when  she  was  young,  was  afraid  of  being  buried  alive.  Nonie  advances  in  her  classroom-and-chapel  study  of  DEATH:  the  real  thing-not  a  word,  not  a  word  for  a  state  of  quiet,  for  an  intervention  in  life's  time,  but  for  a  finality  of  one's  will,  one's  citi-  zenship,  one's  role  in  the  epic  of  the  world.  The  kid,  he  plays  unmeanly-well,  I'm  adopted,  gentle  (ha-ha):  I'm  wel-  come  here:  he's  a  little  king.  Do  you  hate  her,  Wiley?  Yes.  I'm  sorry.  &quot;I'm  so  normal  it's  awful.  I'm  not  like  Wiley.&quot;  Go  slow,  pace  yourself,  turn  yourself  inside  out.  I  went  for  the  kill-I  went  for  the  killing  shot,  but  I  just  didn't  have  it.  Lisa's  mouth  is  set;  it  shakes  from  time  to  time;  her  eyes  hold  intention,  unnegotiably-she  is  pre-  pared  for  winning-she  is  defeating  Our  Little  Sister  of  Tennis.  Nonie  says,  &quot;I  got  too  eager;  I  was  just  too  hot  to  trot.  Coach  Bill  says  you  have  to  bea  tiger,  not  a  pig.  I  got  silly  in  the  second  set.  You  have  to  know  that  a  game  takes  a  long  time,  you  have  to  just  be  patient  and  stick  to  your  game  strategy-and  your  strategy  will  stick  by  you.  ...&quot;  A  strategy  unfolds-it  is  a  form  of  obtuseness  toward  others,  it  is  a  cancellation  of  accident,  it  magni-  fies  parts  of  oneself.  She  holds  me  be-  tween  her  legs  and  tightens  the  bar-  rette  in  her  hair:  &quot;I  learned  my  lesson.  I'm  just  going  to  be  a  ti-ti-tiger,  like  Coach  Bill  says,  and  never  a  pig.  Hold  still,  Wileykins.&quot;  Her  sense  of  her  own  knowledge  gives  her  a  sense  of  beauty-some-  thing  that  represents  what  she  knows  is  beautiful,  just  perfectly  beautiful.  When  she  feels  knowledgeable,  she  is  nearly  beautiful;  her  intelligence  about  the  world  shows  as  such  in  her  posture  and  in  her  face.  Not  in  her  words:  &quot;I  know  how  to  win-you  have  to  have  spirit  and  you  just  keep  hit,  ting  the  ball  back  more  times  than  the  other  person.&quot;  Nonie  liked  unarguability  in  speech;  that  is,  for  her  the  world  of  the  mind,  no  matter  how  public  it  is,  is  not  in  the  open  air  where  things  are  " b"contested-it's  in  houses,  it's  more  like  the  talk  in  houses:  it's  more  certain-  it's  subject  to  control  by  a  woman.  (Momma  said,  &quot;You  never  liked  her  from  the  beginning-I'm  glad  you  never  went  after  me.&quot;)  Bitsof  the  real  day  cling  to  her.  She  holds  me  between  her  legs,  and  my  jealousy  included  a  blaze  of  longing  to  experience  the  world  that  seemed  to  live,  fresh  but  logical,  grand,  adum-  brated,  in  Nonie's  speeches:  it  was  real  to  me,  that  ecstatically  calculated  world:  I  thought  she  knew  a  lot;  I  thought  she  went  from  our  house  into  that  reality;  I  thought  her  talk  ade-  quately,  directly,  honestly  spoke  of  it:  and  I  wanted  it.  Nonie  liked  a  certain  flatness  of  speech  which  was  like  driv-  ing  a  ball:  she  swatted  the  Local  World  in  her  talk.  Jealousy  is  an  openness  of  attention.  A  brilliant  dis-  order  of  attention.  Of  deduction.  Nonie  half  knows  what  to  say  if  she  wants  me  to  listen.  Nonie's  courage  is  not  experimental:  it's  acquisitive.  Grief,  for  her,  is  a  thing  of  being  poisoned  and  helpless,  boiled  in  humil-  iation.  A  fever  of  it's  unbearable-it's  unbelievable  it's  so  bad.  Her  eyes  get  funny.  She  wants  to  shrink  the  world  to  a  matter  of  inherited  laws,  set  rival-  ries,  modes  of  peace  and  of  alliance-a  burst  of  girl's  common  sense,  above  all  of  privilege  separate  from  character  and  from  freshly  interpreted  adven-  ture.  Separate  from  one's  own  pained  learning.  (&quot;His  people  are  trash,  but  you'd  never  know  it  to  look  at  him.&quot;)  What  do  I  inherit?  An  underdog  has  the  simpler  will  of  existent  hurt,  of  no  victory  so  far,  no  victory  as  yet.  Nonie  has  won  twice  on  her  way  up  the  ladder  in  a  tournament:  she's  never  won  a  tournament-but  she  tries.  She  gets  to  the  quarter-finals.  Why  do  we  have  to  take  her  seriously?  We  go  outside  in  the  dark  after  dinner  onto  the  back  lawn-she  wants  to  dance.  She's  not  a  holy  or  mad  angel  of  movement,  she's  not  God's  pantomim-  ing  sweetie;  she  sways,  she's  bunches  of  limber  sticks;  she's  been  taught;  her  physical  intelligence  produces  pale  musicality:  glides,  sweet  turns.  She  is  slenderly  visible  in  the  local  dark-  perhaps  everyone  will  come  to  desire  her  now.  The  kid  dances,  too-well,  he  runs,  he  spins,  he  does  interpreta-  tions  of  what  she  does,  of  the  prettiness  of  what  she  does.  He  is  mad.  He  is  a  mad  angel  of  movement.  He  does  half  cartwheels,  rollovers,  runs  and  leaps,  somersaults.  &quot;Look  at  angel  pie-ain't  he  won-  derful?&quot;  " b"&quot;Wiley,  you're  in  the  way.&quot;  She  kicks  at  the  child.  &quot;Nonie,  don't  do  that.  Its  ugly.  Kids  are  a  pain  in  the  ass-you  know  that-but  you  just  put  up  with  him  now.&quot;  Nonie  tore  up  handfuls  of  grass,  she  dropped  grass  on  the  kid  in  rapid  quantities,  she  threw  or  dropped  hand-  fuls  of  dirt  until  he  couldn't  see  or  breathe:  he's  stained:  he  stops:  she  pushes  him:  she  trips  him:  his  shin  is  bleeding:  &quot;I'm  mot  sorry;  he  inter-  feres.&quot;  She  won't  dance  orbe  present  if  he  dances.  &quot;I  don't  blame  her.  The  littlest  ones  always  get  all  the  credit-  when  they're  young,  like  that,  they're  all  heart,  and  he's  learned  he's  adorable;  he  makes  himself  look  adorable  compared  to  her.&quot;  'The  child  stands  quietly.  Nonie  is  in  a  state  of  displea-  sure,  suspicion-extreme,  and  with  funny  admixtures  of  thwarted  plea-  sure,  terrible  pleasure,  frustration,  longing;  she  has  silenced  him;  she  wants  to  dance  again;  she  dances  for-  mally  on  the  site  of  his  nutty  exhibi-  tion  to  test  her  powers  and  to  erase  his  performance.  &quot;Don't,  Nonie-that's  silly,  what  you're  doing,&quot;  Lila  says.  Nonie  turns  to  me.  &quot;  You're  silly,  you're  terrible,  you  need  lessons.  You  ought  to  be  like  me.  I'd  be  ashamed  to  be  like  you.  You're  a  little  sissy.&quot;  And:  &quot;Les-  sons  would  be  wasted  on  you.  He's  too  crazy,  Momma.  You  should  be  wor-  ried  about  him.&quot;  A  girl's  mode  of  argument.  One  time,  she  ran  at  him  and  hit  him  while  he  was  in  midair:  &quot;Nome!  Wiley!  O.K  .,  we'll  have  none  of  this.  No  dancing  if  you  cam't  be  peaceful.&quot;  I  didn't  speak  yet,  but  I  looked  at  her  with  contempt  on  the  dark  lawn-  a  version  of  disdain,  anyway.  She  tried  to  grab  me  from  [REDACTED]'s  arms  when  he  lifted  me.  He  held  me  away  from  her.  &quot;I'm  not  mad  at  him,  Daddy,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Let  me  hold  him.&quot;  She  dribbled  at|.  the  mouth  with  the  vigor  of  her  insistence  that  her  anger,  herblows,  her  jealousy  were  not  serious,  not  an  issue.  Momma  said,  &quot;If  you  ask  me,  children  go  too  far-it  doesn't  make  any  sense.&quot;  Daddy  said,  &quot;They're  all  little  won-  ders-I've  read  that  they  are.&quot;  In  the  matter  of  emotions,  here's  a  sample:  Nonie  likes  Katie  Rogers.  Sometimes  if  Katie  is  available  No-  nie  snoots  me:  it  hurts,  it  burns.  &quot;M  omma,  I  have  to  go  see  Katie-she  wants  me  to  come  over  and  be  with  her.&quot;  Nonie  is  infatuated;  and  tough  about  having  attention  paid  to  her  as  someone  afflicted  with  intense  (and  " b"O.K.)  feelings,  as  the  wooer  ofthe  other  girl;  then,  too,  she  makes  a  point  of  demeaning  whomever  she  woos.  &quot;She's  just  someone  I  like,  she's  not  special,  she's  not  a  ath-a-lete.&quot;  And  overpraising  her:  &quot;She's  so  mice,  she  comes  from  a  very  distinguished  fam-  ily,  she's  just  so  A-1  smart,  it  scares  me.&quot;  And  she  practices  outgrowing  that-which-infatuates-her:  &quot;Momme,  Katie's  not  real  smart-she  doesn't  know  anything  about  clothes.&quot;  She  tries  to  make  whomever  she  woos  into  an  immediate  servant,  a  dependent,  someone  to  be  used:  &quot;Katie,  you're  my  hostess.  I  get  to  go  first  in  everything,  I  pick  the  game.  You  better  do  as  I  say.  I  don't  like  people  who  don't  act  right.  Be  careful  or  you'll  make  me  laugh  at  you.&quot;  Momma  says  that  ev-  eryone  does  a  version  of  this:  she  calls  it  breaking-your-spirit,  or  breaking,  you-in,  or  trying-to-get-hold-of-you-  by-putting-a-ring-in-your-nose  or  a  ring-a-ring-in-your-heart.  Getting  you  where  they  want  you.  Momma  says  Nonie's  stupid  in  &quot;how  she  goes  about  it.&quot;  Nonie  believes  that  servants  and  de-  pendents  don't  have  to  compete:  win-  ning  is  Nonie's  job,  she's  the  flag,  the  young  woman.  She  says  often  to  Anne-  marie,  &quot;YOU  BE  QUIET  AND  JUST  HELP  ME.&quot;  You  don't  have  to  think,  you  don't  have  to  live:  I  do.  Her  bravery  carries  so  bureaucratic  a  charge  of  emotion  about  herself  that  it  is  serviceable  in  attracting  the  devo-  tion  of  some  frightened  and  uneasy  and  uncomfortably  cautious  people.  Not  Lila,  though,  or  [REDACTED]  She  is  rarely  in  their  terms  in  a  state  of  grace.  In  a  sense,  no  one  loves  her-or  ever  did  or  ever  will.  She  charges  the  net,  a  pudgy,  pink-  thighed  girl,  small  muscles  taut.  The  other  girl  is  amazingly  thin  but  thick-  thighed;  she  is  freckle-cheeked,  and  she  wears  glasses  that  cloud  over.  She's  already  at  the  net,  where  she  jerkily  intercepts  Nonie's  floppy  drive  with  a  sort  of  half-remarkable  lurch  and  interposition.  Her  tightly  gripped  racquet  shudders  but  stays  mostly  forward.  The  ball's  flight  reverses  abruptly,  arrhythmically-Nonie  raises  her  racquet;  the  ball  is  sailing  past.  I  look  at  Nonie's  face,  the  scene  goes  so  fast  that  I  only  think  I  see  Nonie's  face,  Nonie's  racquet.  The  ball  bangs  on  the  side  of  Nonie's  racquet,  Nonie's  racquet  comes  down  and  strikes  the  wrist  of  the  big-thighed  girl  at  the  net.  Nonie's  tender-boned  wrist  and  hand,  with  the  puffed  fingertips  and  pink  and  puffy  palm,  some  fingers  roughened,  and  the  bitten  fingernails,  is  a  familiar  sight,  a  commonplace  memory  of  mine.  The  court-the  tennis  court:  if  I  put  in  sunlight,  real  light,  not  painted,  not  any  construct  of  the  mind  but  drenching  and  hot  and  much  larger  than  me,  and  then  if  I  grant  peculiari-  ties  of  curvature  and  of  vividness  to  the  air,  if  I  stick  to  the  real  light  of  that  real  day,  I  see  a  child's  foot  in  a  child's  sandals:  mize.  Daddy's  bulgy  shadow  is  a  semi-cavern  in  the  drenching  light;  my  white-hatted  head  is  near  his  ribs.  Both  girls  are  at  the  net.  I  see  the  ghost-tail,  ghost-cherub  faceof  the  ball  go  past  Nonie.  A  pause.  Nonie's  racquet  moves.  That  is  all  I  see.  And  the  big-legged  girl  screams-I  see  because  I  hear  the  very  loud  scream.  Her  head  went  back,  her  eyes  bulged.  What  has  happened?  What  has  been  done  to  her?  Nonie's  motion  was  that  of  trying  to  slam  the  ball-nothing  held  back-the  motion  was  full.  Was  Lisa's  wrist  broken?  Bruised?  Was  it  a  bone  bruise?  It  is  a  local  and  seedy  reality,  the  afternoon's  blast  of  heat  and  light,  the  real  air  lionlike  and  aroar.  The  big-legged  girl  screamed,  &quot;yOU  HIT  ME!&quot;  Then  she  stared  at  Nonie.  She  yelled,  &quot;YOU  DID  THAT  ON  PURPOSE-YOU'RE  TERRIBLE.&quot;  A  sort  of  convulsion  took  her  as  she  tried  to  speak,  tried  to  fit  a  name  to  her  thought.  &quot;NONIE!&quot;  she  said  in  a  deep,  racked  voice.  Lisa  chopped  at  Nonie,  slung  her  racquet  sideways-at  Nonie  -she  wanted  to  hit  Nonie.  Then  she  clutched  her  own  wrist.  I  can  rerun  this  part  of  the  memory.  The  girl  wears  white,  like  a  boy's  undershirt.  She's  overdoing  it  to  get  Nonie  in  trouble.  Nonie  rears  back,  away  from  the  whirling  racquet;  she  moves  min-  mally,  staringly-too  much  evidence  lies  in  that  calm  movement:  the  dreamily  contemptuous  movement  of  evasion.  The  scene  grows  gray-toned  as  if  at  twilight-half  clear,  half  un-  certain.  Lisa  sinks-her  legs  out  straight;  she  holds  her  hurt  wrist  like  a  dog's  paw.  She  howls,  sort  of:  &quot;Help  me;  it  hurts.&quot;  She  stares  at  Nonie;  her  look  has  the  aim  and  anger  of  how  much  she  wants  Nonie  harmed.  Her  head  sinks  forward.  No  one  screams  or  anything.  The  event  is  left  unsettled  -we're  peaceful  here.  Nonie:  &quot;I  didn't  hit  her-&quot;  A  blun-  der  can't  be  called  a  hit-it's  to  be  considereda  miss.  What's  in  Lisa's  eyes  is  more  nego-  tiable  now  than  what  was  in  them  before.  IT  is  somehow  in  the  quality  of  the  mind  to  conceive  of  goodmess  as  complete,  as  absolute  and  unchanging,  and  of  evil  as  cloudy,  interpretable,  changeable,  capable  of  redemption,  but  that  is  the  mind's  doing  and  neither  feeling  matches  the  actuality.  One  sees  that  one  cannot,  without  taking  sides,  judge  Nonie  as  being  someone  who  goes  too  far.  Without  taking  sides  against  her.  I  remember  the  taste  of  fear  in  my  mouth-a  scaly  snake.  Because  of  Nonie.  .  Lisa's  mother  is  shouting  at  Nonie.  Daddy  says,  &quot;Here,  here,  let's  close  the  books  on  this  one.&quot;  We  don't  ex-  amine  in  any  detail  the  actions  of  girls.  A  notion  of  a  definition  of  evil  as  a  state  of  will  and  hurt  in  a  girl,  a  sister,  is  a  joke.  The  limits  are  funny.  &quot;Don't  ask  me-I  wasn't  looking.  But  Nomie's  all  right-she  wouldn't  harm  a  fly.&quot;  Hey,  what  happened,  what  was  that,  did  you  see  it?  I  saw  something-it  looked  bad.  I  must've  missed  it-did  you  see  it?  What  was  that  all  about?  After  all,  what  the  conscious  mind  does  chiefly  is  calculate  and  remember  -and  what  the  mind  chiefly  remem-  bers  is  itself,  not  physical  reality,  so  that  testimony  is  almost  always  an  odd  and  conceited  thing.  I,  Wiley,  I  think  my  mind  is  trained  primarily  by  my  dreams  and  by  things  that  imitate  my  dreams,  and  the  structures  and  pur-  poses  of  my  dreams-1I  know  that  my  mind  sees  mostly  only  its  thoughts  about  things.  I  am  trained  in  the  exi-  gencies  of  nightmare.  I  have  studied  meaning-that-cannot-be-finally-inter-  preted.  Moments  are  explained  over  and  over  in  my  dreams,  then  in  my  thoughts,  but  nothing  I  know  is  in  actuality  more  certain  than  a  legal  truth  is-that  is  to  say,  no  final  expla-  nation  arrives.  In  front  of  the  grownups,  Nonie  symbolically  shouts,  &quot;Oh,  Lisa!  Don't  " b"say  such  things  about  me!&quot;  She  swacks  her  racquet  against  her  own  leg  as  if  dismay  and  despair  power  her  arm.  The  sound  makes  Lisa  wince-a  re-  minder,  a  threat,  a  tic  of  the  reality  that  has  Nonie  in  it.  Girls  grow  up  to  sexual  reality  from  their  side,  not  starting  from  the  reality  of  men-from  our  kinds  of  good  and  evil.  We  specialize  in  kinds  of  good  and  evil  by  sex  and  by  individual  souls.  No  one  human  being  deals  with  all  kinds  of  good  and  bad  stuff.  Nonie  had  daydreams  of  violence,  of  willful  as-  sertion-is  it  the  false  innocence  of  women,  their  permitted  (and  unexamined)  vio-  lence  of  soul  and  act  that  make  many  men  en-  S  uC  vy  women  so  passionate,  ly?  That  pale  and  care-  less  and  unjudged  power  of  theirs?  Some  men  absorb  and  imitate  that.  I'm  a  lot  kinder  in  talking  about  myself  than  I  am  when  I  talk  about  Nonie.  Sight  has  shad-  owy  areas  where  wide  and  untrained  vi-  sion  spreads  out  from  the  narrower,  schooled  registry  of  conscious  inspec-  tion.  Coherence  is  a  serious  matter-  it  is  not  part  of  the  ordinary  nature  of  things:  Hey,  it's  all  in  your  head,  buddy-boy.  I  guess  that's  how  you  see  things,  like  a  crazy  man.  .  ..  We'll  wait  and  see  who's  right;  we'll  see  how  it  comes  out.  I  am  a  confessed  dream  self,  a  trans-  lator  of  night  murmurs  into  public  statements-somewhat.  I  peer  out  of  my  dream  of  knowledge  at  her-at  Nonie;  I'm  in  a  burrow  of  assumed  comprehension.  Take  me,  for  example,  at  age  thir-  teen.  I  was  party  to  my  puberty,  quar-  relsome,  sometimes  cruel,  un-Edenish,  expelled-the  age  Nonie  was  at  the  time  the  lightning  frightened  her.  I  was  known  to  have  a  temper,  to  be  grudging.  You  can  kill,  Wiley,  I  was  assured  by  an  admiring  friend.  And  the  football  coach  told  me,  Yow're  O.K.  in  a  pinch.  You'rerough.  He  meant  I  was  tricky  and  sometimes  re-  lentless-admirably  merciless.  That's  right.  I  was  someone  to  go  up  against;  I  was  big;  I  could  be  rough.  Nonie's  slanders  were  different  in  kind  and  spirit  from  my  roughness.  She  said  of  Lisa,  for  instance,  that  she  was  a  bed-  wetter,  which  wasn't  true.  I  don't  think  I  ever  lied  to  do  harm  to  some-  one.  Lila  said,  If's  terrible  when  you  tell  the  truth-it  makes  me  sick  when  MIMI)!!!&quot;  C     you  tell  Nonie  you  don't  love  her,  you  can't  stand  her.  ...  Lila  differentiated  between  me  and  Nonie  this  way:  You're  the  killer;  she's  just  a  troublemaker-she's  only  a  woman.  You  make  some  sacrifices  for  people;  she  never  does.  When  you  stop  and  think  about  things,  you're  not  so  selfish.  You  mean  well  sometimes-  she  doesn't  care-she  doesn't  care  about  anyone.  ...  Neither  one  of  you  is  generous.  I  don't  like  her  as  much  as  I  like  you-you're  more  likable.  She's  not  interesting;  I  think  you're  interest-  ing,  Wiley.  A  family  secret.  If's  mot  livable  around  her-I  like  being  with  you.  Well,  then,  she's  the  killer,  isn't  she?  I'm  the  sucker.  The  thing  about  being  interesting  to  Lila  is  that  then  her  forbearance  and  her  wish  to  cheat  you  and  sometimes  smash  you  -those  become  built  in.  In  the  real  world,  I  of-  ten  forget  who  I  am,  that  I  have  any  worldly  attributes-I  turn  pale  and  transparent  in  my  own  mind,  changeable.  I  am  a  lot  of  characters  in  my  own  mind,  maybe  unconvincingly.  Still,  if  someone's  watching  and  listen-  ing  to  you,  you  get  a  chance  to  live  through  a  day  with  roughly  the  same  baggage  of  identity.  When  memory  tries  to  draw  on  this  stuff,  then  the  stuff  of  futurity  in  every  single  actual  moment  makes  memory  stagger  and  stammer  around  as  the  mind  did  at  the  time.  The  abrupt  truth  of  reality  remembered  is  ignorance  all  over  again.  This  absence  of  finality  can  make  me  hunger  for  finality,  make  me  murderous  or  suicidal.  Pointless-  ness  for  me  is  waiting  for  the  point  to  be  made,  the  blade  to  appear;  and  I'm  humiliated  or  scared  or  empty  or  all  those  then,  or  I  manage  to  be  gallant  on  the  chopping  block,  at  the  sight  of  the  materializing  act-enmity,  judg-  ment,  the  point.  Nonie's  face  in  my  memory  never  has  the  sharp  and  incredible  loveliness  and  ferocity  of  her  presence  when  the  presence  of  the  future  was  in  her,  the  presence  of  the  thought  ofthe  future,  the  urgency  when  no  certainty  exists  about  what  will  happen,  and  what  her  character  is,  until  her  acts  offer  their  clouded  testimony,  her  blurred  and  complicated  acts.  Her  face  when  ev-  erything  is  in  play,  and  we  don't  know  what  will  turnout  to  have  been  good  and  bad  in  the  long  run,  has  a  vibrat-  ing  brilliance  of  reality  that  it  can't  have  in  memory  when  the  story  is  over  and  only  the  questions  remain.  In  memory,  I  get  onlya  general  face,  a  face  without  futurity,  Nonie's  remem-  bered  face-not  the  real  thing.  But  sometimes  I  get  a  real  moment  going  with  the  real  blur  of  her  real  face  in  it,  and  then  I'm  so  flabbergasted  by  the  shrewd  intensity  of  her  reelity-and  of  my  own  reality,  too,  in  the  shared  light  of  one  of  the  times  when  I  was  with  her-that  I  lose  control,  and  se-  quences  and  good  sense  disappear  in  the  miracle  and  blare  of  such  recall.  Then,  almost,  I  see  her  unedited  face  at  the  edge  of  her  unknown  future  when  she  was  eleven,  thirteen,  twenty,  twenty-nine,  thirty-three,  and  dead;  that  mixture  of  ages,  the  mixture  of  faces  in  one  face,  with  me  actually  there,  is  uncomfortably  without  mean-  ing,  without  distance  inside  my  own  life  now.  The  actuality  of  seeing  her  face  again  in  one  real  moment  at  the  edge  of  the  void  of  real  time  to  come  is  so  hard  to  bear  that  it  blinds  me  for  hours  at  a  time-it  kills  me.  Daddy  used  to  say,  Be  a  gentleman  and  a  scholar  even  if  it  kills  you.  He  wasn't  kidding.  My  God.  Why  should  I  want  to  see  Nonie,  good  old  Nonie,  my  prime  knowledge  of  evil,  NONIE,  this  way,  at  the  cost  of  hours  of  my  life?  This  cost  makes  her  invisible,  unex-  aminable,  immune  to  judgment-or4\xc3\xa9-  mary.  ...  Well,  why  not?  Is  it  such  hell-to  be  ordinary?  Is  it  worth  it,  is  she  worth  an  actual  and  unexpurgated  moment  of  judgment?  Even  as  I  write,  I  see  the  pinkish  skin  of  her  lower  abdomen  and  upper  thigh,  big-so  it's  when  I  was  small-and  I  seem  to  smell  her.  I  know  why  it's  fragmen-  tary.  The  height,  the  air,  the  dimen-  sionality  of  continuance  hold  myster-  ies,  the  future,  the  not-mastered  thought.  .  ..  Can  I  approach  that  flesh  knowing  I  won't  survive  this  time,  either?  Pride  is  never  in  such  abeyance  as  that,  is  it?  Did  Nonie  feel  real  pain?  Nonie  was  often  miserable  psychically-and  she  had  bad  monthly  cramps.  She  was  dra-  matic  over  scratches,  cuts,  her  periods,  and  being  snubbed.  She  never  got  significantly  hurt  that  I  can  recall.  She  had  her  appendix  out,  though.  Did  she  feel  pain  to  match  the  pain  she  caused?  Or  was  it  that  any  pain  triggered  her  demand  for  justice  She  burned  to  death-maybe  that  hurt.  If  I  think  of  her  as  a  forty-two-year-old  woman  burning  to  death,  I'm  moved  some.  Mostly,  it's  hard  for  me  to  care  what  happened  to  her  up  to  and  including  her  death  in  the  flames.  Do  you  love  your  sister?  Probably.  It's  enjoined.  I  " b"still  don't  care  much  what  happened  to  her.  IfI  love  her  or  forgive  her  or  whatever,  it  doesn't  mean  I  want  her  to  come  back-I  don't  want  to  be  with  her.  Any  forgiveness  going,  she  al-  ways  used  for  her  purposes.  I  can't  go  through  that  anymore-you  know  how  it  is.  IV  OWERS  and  illusions  and  emo-  tions  and  one's  strength  of  com-  mand  are  really  different  when  you  picture  them  tinged  with  the  openness  and  logic  of  as  yet  unknown  futurity.  Men  and  women  and  children  are  kind  of  beautiful  naturally  but  scarily  then.  And  up-until-now  then  is  not  seen  as  one  pure  thing.  Ifthis  is  after  a  defeat  at  her  hands,  I  don't  have  honest  ac-  cess  to  my  future  except  in  repentance  or  unease  and  caution.  And  ifitis  after  a  victory  over  her,  then,  as  a  perpetrator,  I  find  my  identity  in  being  grown  up,  oblivious  of  the  harm  I  do.  I  proceed  into  the  future  with  some  kind  of  guilt  or  other,  which  is  insuf-  ferable  in  a  lot  of  ways.  Momma  said,  Ialways  stood  by  her  -she's  my  daughter-an  extension  of  Momma  into  Futurity-it  wouldn't  look  good  if  I  didn't.  And  DIL  be  honest;  I'm  glad  she's  a  fighter;  I'm  a  realist;  I  was  a  good  mother  to  her-  no  one  ever  advised  me  honestly  about  this.  About  violence?  About  how  to  help  a  child  survive?  About  forgiveness?  About  the  nature  of  the  real  world?  The  toughness  necessary  to  get  your  own  way?  You  know  what  it  was  like  when  Nonie  woke  up  to  what  was  going  on  somewhere,  Nonie  was  al-  ways  someone  who  had  to  keep  up  with  you,  she  always  helped  herself  to  whatever  was  there  to  be  had.  Nonie  fought  with  her  weapons  to  have  what  she  wanted,  to  have  a  share  of  the  world,  to  have  what  she  saw  others  having,  and  this  was  a  daily  thing,  merely  that,  and  a  truth  about  every-  one-Momma  meant,  [It  is  normal.  But,  then,  Nonie  had  to  be  seen  ab-  stractly-a  normal  or  typical  or  O.K.  person-and  so  Momma  couldn't  manage,  usually,  to  indicate  any  consistent  degree  of  abstraction  about  Nonie.  I  mean,  Momma  and  all  of  us  had  to  be  illogical  and  dumb  if  we  wanted  to  protect  Nonie;  and  Nonie  had  to  sail  along  without  an  honestly  known  or  honestly  felt  past  and  with  only  an  idealized-or  typical  one  with  the  usual  meanings;  so  it  was  as  if  her  life  were  at  the  center  of  abstract  meaning  and  her  language  and  errors  and  stupidities  were  clever  after  all.  She  was  free  of  abstract  judg-  ment  so  completely  I  thought  it  moral  bliss  to  be  ordinary.  I  wanted  to  live  in  that  moral  anarchy,  too.  The  recipe  for  this  citizenship,  Nonie's  system,  was  that  you  never  have  more  than  one  moment,  and  it  is  rigorously  typical,  and  it  fills  one  sentence,  and  maybe  two,  and  it  is  al-  ways  a  now,  always  an  always,  al-  ways  a  game  in  progress,  and  always  in  it  she  knows  the  most  real  moral  truth.  The  greater  the  degree  of  abstrac-  tion  this  way,  the  more  moments  are  subsumed  in  it  without  your  noticing  that  this  is  being  done;  the  more  any  one  actual  moment  is  excluded,  the  more  anyone's  life  loses  its  features,  its  particularity,  the  easier  it  is  for  you  to  come  to  convenient  judgments  about  yourself.  Momma  stayed  in  individual  moments  without  Nonie's  history  and  with  only  Nonie's  general  future  in  them:  The  way  I  talk  is  warning  enough  to  the  wise.  A  friend  would  understand  me.  A  friend  would  know  what  category  of  uselessness  to  put  Nonie  in  from  the  way  Momma  talked,  she  meant.  You  have  a  future-no  wonder  Nonie  hates  you.  Unless  she  marries  a  rich  man,  Momma  said  to  me,  Momma  said,  SL.  likes  to  think  everyone's  an  angel,  so  he  gets  lied  to,  he  gets  hurt  a  lot,  but  I  like  people  just  as  they  are:  I  can  take  it.  [REDACTED]  said  she  didn't  know  anything;  she  invented  the  nastiest  ideas  possible  in  order  to  scare  people  and  get  her  own  way  and  drive  everybody  mad.  Sometimes  he  listened  to  her.  Momma  would  say,  Why  do  you  hate  her  so?  She's  not  a  criminal.  She's  no  good  at  all-that's  what  I  said.  I  thought  she  was  of  acriminal  order  of  being.  The  only  further  de-  grees  of  Evil  had  to  do  with  psychotic  boldness.  I  felt  that  Nonie  was  as  ruth-  less  as  her  standing  permitted,  that  she  was  a  point  at  which  Evil  bubbled  into the  world  as  a  kind  of  truth  of  an  indi-  vidual  soul  and  particular  will.  I  didn't  always  mind  that,  though.  Daddy  tried  to  calm  Lisa's  mother:  This  is  a  terrible  thing  to  happen.  We're  a  friendly  neighborhood.  I  guess  the  measure  that  establishes  limits  is  not  clearly  measurable,  is  Pain.  I  fainted.  ...  The  thought  of  pain  makes  me  ill.  A  threatened  lawsuit-  over  a  tennis  game!?  You  must  be  in-  sane-you're  talking  like  acrazy  per-  son.  A  lunatic.  The  sight  of  Lisa's  pain,  the  reality,  means  what?  These  things  happen  all  the  time.  Bruises  and  abrasions  and  defeat  bloom  in  our  garden.  IP's  too  terrible-I  can't  think  about  it.  Let's  keep  this  in  proportion;  no  one  broke  any  bones.  Everything  is  peaceful.  We're  all  one  big  happy  family.  The  family  is  Nonie:  &quot;I  didn't  do  ...anyTHING.  I  didn't  do  any-  thing.  I  didn't  do  anything  bad,  I  didn't  do  anything  you  should  think  was  bad.&quot;  A  partial  analysis  of  Nonie's  speech:  The  first  I-didn't-do-anything  is  a  correction  of  suspicions  that  anything  meaningful  occurred.  The  second  that  nothing  occurred  through  the  agency  of  her  act.  The  third  denies  that  her  act  occurred  in  any  reality  in  which  jealousy,  violence,  pain,  mental  or  physical,  exist  commonly.  Nonie  re-  fused  that,  insisted  that  it  was  not  so  and  that  no  suspicion  should  now  or  ever  attach  to  her  at  all.  Nonie  was  clearer,  in  a  way,  than  Momma  was.  Nonie  claimed  the  right  to  be  seen  as  someone  who  lived  en-  tirely  in  sunlight.  Her  acts  were  not  worth  discussing,  were  not  to  be  dis-  cussed.  No  questions  about  her  ought  sensibly  to  exist.  The  simplicity  of  her  vocabulary  maybe  was  stupidity,  as  Lila  said,  but  it  was  also  a  style  and  a  tactic,  a  conscious  anesthesia  of  her  mind  and  everyone  else's,  a  way  of  separating  her  life  from  emy  universe  of  harm  and  from  any  real  responsibil-  ity  for  the  consequences  of  her  will.  When  I  was  young,  much  of  the  time  the  future  so  prevailed  with  me  that  nothing  else  had  as  much  authority-  as  explanation,  as  comfort  (and  un-  ease),  as  the  source  of  reason,  and  as  a  practical  measure  of  goodness.  A  com-  mon  future,  a  firm  and  unarguable  braiding  of  destinies,  was  what  good-  ness  arose  from.  I  might  have  liked  the  tactics  Nonie  used,  but  they  were  hers.  I  thought  she  ruined  them.  I  could  not  see  that  Nonie  was  wise.  The  future  is  in  my  " b"bones  then  and  now-it  has  never  stopped  being  a  measure  of  goodness,  although,  God  knows,  I  am  not  young  now.  A  falsity  is  a  futurity  lied  about  as  solved.  I  feel  it  like  a  doom,  my  hatred  and  amusement  and  pity  for  Nonie.  I  pitied  Nonie's  way  of  trying  to  han-  dle  the  sneaky-furtive  and  gor-geous-ghost dwindle and asscent of futurity.         \n\nConventional  meanings  are  com-  forts.  They're  classics-you're  a  fool  to  use  them  and  a  fool  not  to.  IP's  all  O0.  K.  ...  Nomie's  nothing  much.  I  cannot  ever  fully  grasp  how  Nonie,  in  her  pride,  was  willing  to  cast  off  the  im-  peratives  of  intelligence,  an  honest  view  of  the  past  and  a  real  worry  about  the  future.  She  needs  me.  .  ..  The  way  she  did  it,  she  lived  in  a  Now  become  paramount  in  pleasure  and  excruciating  pain.  Nonie's  cal-  culations  were  based  on  notions  of  peo-  ple  in  a  sort  of  present-tense  landscape  and  on  notions  of  what-works  and  what-will-work  as  a  sure  thing  there.  I  think  the  cheated-on  past,  the  lied-about  future  will  harm  us.  More  than  we  have  to  be  hurt.  Pudgy  Nonie  makes  you  choose  sides  justin  the  obvious  way  she  presents  herself-it's  hard  to  be  rude  to  her,  but  if  you're  not,  you're  her  accomplice.  We  must  go  into  the  future  as  those  who  have  hurt  her  or  as  her  friends.  She  went  out  every  day  to  play  with  other  chil-  dren  and  she  forced  herself  on  them.  She  forced  them  to  accept  or  deny  her.  Similarly,  she  went  into  people's  houses  even  when  those  people  were  uncomfortable  with  her.  She  was  pushy,  obtuse,  talkative:  I  didn't  do  any  ...  THING.  She  was  without  moral  self-consciousness.  She  was  actual  and  unself-conscious.  Her  blue  eyes  are  ripe  and  guarded-they  are  hard-surfaced  with  denied  guilt.  Often,  they  have  the  bloom  of  tan-  trum.  Nonie  slept  long  hours.  In  her  dreams,  she  dealt  with  futurity-and  with  her  past-as  we  did  in  wakeful-  ness.  She  was  very  active,  often  snubbed,  often  in  bed  sleeping.  Momma  went  around  using  phrases  like  &quot;more-normal-than-normal&quot;  for  Nonie.  Nonie  had  clear  skin  and  &quot;good  sleep  habits.&quot;  Momma  kept  Nonie's  image  obscure.  She  had  a  funny,  cruel,  partly  sentimental  grip  on  the  actuality  of  pain  all-the-time  (for  everyone)  and  on  what  it  cost  her  to  be  a  mother-a  mother  at  all,  and  to  Nonie.  She  wanted  Nonie's  too  openly  cheerful-cheerleader  smile  and  Holly-  wood-starlet-in-the-sunshine-with-er-  mine-on-her-bedroom-slippers-while-  she-reads-comic-books-like-you-and-  me  style  modified  to  show  Nonie  knew  she  was  expensive  for  the  world,  for  women,  for  everyone.  Momma  said,  People  around  here  are  not  absolute fools. Momma said that the presence  of  pain  was  too  much  for  sensitive  Nonie;  and  then,  because  Nonie  and  her  real-life  manner  existed,  Momma  said,  Nomie's  a  fool,  but  in  some  ways  she's  a  realist.  Many  people  like  her.  She  gets  along  in  the  world.  Momma  went  in  and  out  of  any  number  of  opin-  ions  about  Nonie;  she  said  to  Nonie,  &quot;You  make  me  laugh.  You're  a  riot.&quot;  Nonie  said,  &quot;You  make  things  up.  No  one  likes  you.&quot;  Lilae-makes-things-up:  that  meant  Lila  no  longer  had  a  real  life  or  mind  but  was  abstract,  a  mother,  and  dead  and  ghostly  otherwise.  Nonie  often  said  she  herself  had  no  gift  for  what-  was-made-up.  Nonie  couldn't  watch  the  movers  from  a  window,  forin-  stance-she'd  have  to  go  outside  and  touch  the  side  of  the  truck,  the  metal  hot  from  the  sun.  Watching  children  play,  she'd  twitch,  she'd  start  toplay,  too,  on  the  sidelines,  and  not  imagi-  nary  (or  little)  gestures  of  play,  either:  she'd  do  what  the  children  she  was  watching  were  doing.  &quot;I'm  a  better  person  than  you,&quot;  she  said  to  Lila  often.  That  meant,  in  part,  that  Lila  wasn't  cheerful-likable  -being  likable  had  to  do  with  feeling  good  in  the  way  Nonie  sometimes  felt  good:  a  rapid  shallows,  a  brooklike  flow  of  will,  a  being  regarded  as  inno-  cent  by  a  docile  company-as  someone  good  in  an  unvarying  progress  of  goodness  in  an  unchanging  and  cer-  tain  world.  Until  she  was  challenged  -then  the  world  changed  nature  and  being  likable  became  a  claim  of  righ-  teousness  among  the  issues  and  the  wars.  Nonie's  sense  of  the  mormal,  her  idyll  of  the  world,  was  melodramati-  cally  single  in  intent,  and  unambigu-  ously  set  on  her  own  projects,  her  own  life-she  insisted  on  this  to  what  was  a  dangerous,  and  even  imbecile,  extent,  Lila  thought.  This  insistence  lay  in  Nonie's  face,  its  expressions,  her  voice,  its  shrill,  birds-tied-together  tone:  I  am  happy,  I  am  justified  in  being  happy,  people  who  disagree  with  me  are  really  wrong,  I  am  really  truly  right.  Nonie  was  really  right.  Do  what  I  say  or  I  will  hate  you.  Physically,  Nonie  seemed  terrible  to  me-nothing  in  her  posture  or  style  or  face  showed  any  sensethat  life  would  proceed  moment  by  moment  in  the  future  and  would  have  to  be  lived  by  us  as  humanly  and  as  anarchically  as  the  past  had  been,  or  that  there  was  just  us  as  bulwarks  against  despair  and  against  the  isolation  in  our  souls.  I  think  Nonie  imagined  an  entirely  new,  entirely  happy  future  that  would  be  truly  as  she  wanted  it-as  in  an  ad.  Momma  said  once,  I  think  ads  de-  stroyed  her  mind.  As  part  of  this  insane  newness  she  kept  insisting  she  had  created-well,  Nonie  felt  it  put  her  teeth  on  edge  to  call  Lila  Mother.  She  said  yow  and  she  said  she.  Or  she  used  a  sentimental  but  commanding  tone-#  stuck  out  a  mile.  She's  only  guessing,  like  the  rest  of  us,  Momma  said,  referring  to  Nonie's  certainties  and  tactics  and  renamings  and  sporty-and  cultist-taciturnities.  It  was  clear  day  by  day  that  Nonie  made  mistakes  and  was  limited  in  her  systems  even  when  she  was  having  successes.  But  it  sometimes  seemed  she  was  right.  It  was  hard  to  keep  track  of  in  moment-to-moment  stuff  concern-  ing  her.  It  was  easier  to  think  her  judgment  was  better-was  saner  or  &quot;more  normal&quot;-than  it  was.  Than  our  less  cheerful  and  more  wobbly  judgments.  As  Lila  said,  a  lot  of  the  time  it  takes  too  much  energy  to  hate  people  (to  keep  in  mind  that  someone  is  foul  and  a  blot  on  the  world  and  is  wrong  but  insistent  in  judgment).  So  you  can  get  away  with  a  lot-having  a  lot  of  gall  is  a  good  tactic.  Nonie  was  the  quickest  of  anyone  to  pick  up  traces  of  other  people's  abysmal  cruelties,  those  in-the-cause-  of-good,  too.  Nonie  caught  every  over-the-line  murderousness  or  cold-  bloodedness  that  came  along  in  her  presence,  and  she  did  it  faster  than  anyone  else,  it  seemed  to  me.  She  was  sensitive  to  it,  attuned  to  it.  So  you  can  see  how,  in  the  light  of  this,  and  considering  her  disdain  for  futurity  and  the  past,  she  would  un-  derstand  her  being  pretty-when  she  became  pretty-better  in  a  lot  of  ways  than  other  pretty  women  or  men  do  their  being  pretty.  And  you  can  guess  at  some  of  the  mistakes  she  made.  I  never  knew  anyone  who  lived  so  con-  sciously,  so  thoroughly,  what  it  was  to  be  pretty.  Nonie  was  startlingly  complete  within  her  own  system.  She  became  pretty  when  she  was  six-  " b"teen.  Breathtaking  for  a  while,  Mom-  ma  said,  but  it  won't  last;  she's  got  nothing  to  back  it  up.  She's  not  serious  about  it-treating  it  as  grounds  for  charity  toward  others,  for  instance,  or  as  something  that  involved  her  in  the  negotiable  opinions  of  others  in  a  more  earnest  way  than  in  childhood.  Nonie  said  Momma  was  jealous  ofher,  and  hateful  and  mean,  as  she  had  always  been  to  Nonie.  Thin  and  fine-mouthed  and  erect  and  quick  to  smile,  Nonie,  pretty  in  the  way  she  was,  in  an  open,  friendly  style,  took  credit  for  her  looks  and  began  to  sound  both  naive  and  shrewd:  &quot;I  don't  have  any  flaws.  I'm  perfect-this  year.&quot;  Nonie's  joke.  An  irony.  An  idea  is  not  an  ideal.  A  &quot;realism,&quot;  which,  since  it  didn't  predicate  romance  or  anything  subtle,  was  a  form  of  modesty:  &quot;I'm  sweet  sixteen  andI'm  verystuck-up.&quot;  That  n  was  modest  in  a  way.  Whenever  she  Millennium  by  Terence  Conran  is  a  new  collection  of  bedding,  bath  linens  and  said  she  was  &quot;stuck-up,&quot;  she  meant  accessories  in  the  confident  serenity  and  beauty  of  white  on  white.  It  defines  '  the  subtle  art  of  understatement  with  a  calm  assurance  that  makes  your     she  wanted  to  have  her  own  way,  all        bedroom  a  refuge  from  the  clamorous  world  the  way,  because  she  was  pretty  and young,  and  such  things  were  temporary-although  not  for  her:  but  you  were  supposed  to  see  this  as  a  modest  (  (and  sometimes  tragic)  request.  Her legs  and  voice  and  eyes  weren't  good,   but  her  over-all  appearance  was,  and  not  too  many  people  notice  flaws  for  a  while,  Lila  said.  &quot;She  likes  to  hear  herself  talk,&quot;   Nonie  said  of  Lila.  &quot;It  doesn't  mean  anything,  what  she  says;  it's  all  made-up  stuff; beside  the  point.&quot;  Nonie  said  to  me,  &quot;If  I  had  good  legs  and  a  better  nose  and  a  better  hairline,  I'd  go  to  Hollywood.&quot;  And,  still,  her  eyes  gave  off  inter-  mittent  signals  of  her  incredible  obdu-  racy,  signals  of  darkness,  not  such  bad  darkness  when  she  was  a  sixteen-year-  old.  Ifs  been  a  long  wait:  women  need  to  get  their  own  way,  Lila  said;  Nonie  is  at  the  crossroads,  she  has  a  chance-  so  we'll  see.  Maybe  she'll  turn  out  to  be  a  nice  person  if  she  gets  what  she  wants-she's  a  fighter.  Nonie  said,  &quot;I  like  having  really  nice  skin-I'm  like  a  rose-and  I have  very  pretty  eyes.&quot;  She  &quot;knew&quot;  that  what  was  happen-  ing  to  her  was  a  sort  of  accident  of  symmetry:  even  if  she  didn't  under-  stand,  she  knew.  So  when  she  claimed  credit  for  her  looks  it  was  a  trick  on  you-a  demand  not  to  be  a  victim  and  a  request  for  an  intellectual  credit  she  minded,  a  resistance  to  everything  " b"outside  herself.  The  faults  she  saw  in  others  were  her  faults.  The  secrets  hers.  She  was  alert,  and  anxious  not  to  lose  out,  and  curiously  wrong-  insanely  wrong  sometimes-about  things.  She  was  sad.  &quot;I  see  things  in  perspective,&quot;  she  said;  that  is,  she  pre-  ferred  her  sense  of  consequences  to  that  of  anyone  else.  I  didn't  know  her  well  anymore.  Her  life  was  such  a  hash  of  flirtation  and  anger  and  clothes  and  parties  and  distaste  and  appetite  for  sex  in  her  version  and  on  her  terms  that  I  couldn't  disentangle  the  individual  words  she  had  for  things,  let  alone  the  intention  of  the  paragraphs,  the  pages  of  her  utterance.  But  I  think  women,  and  competing  with  them,  and  hurting  them,  were  much  more  important  to  her  than  any-  thing  men  did.  Men  mostly  enraged  her;  or  pleased  her  by  being  real  gen-  tlemen.  1felt  incredibly  sorry  for  her,  impatient  with  her-and  a  little  inter-  ested  in  her  for  a  while.  She  was  secretive  about  her  vio-  lences  and  her  crushes  on  women  and  her  real  moodiness.  &quot;People  know  me.  I  havean  even  temper,&quot;  Nonie  said.  &quot;People  know  I'm  likable.&quot;  To  Momma's  dismay,  Nonie  drank  a  lot-she  passed  out  a  few  times.  She  was  very  self-willed  but  was secretive  about  that,  too-she  tried  to make  it  a  matter  of  rules-respectability  and  breeding,  her  being  so  self-willed:  &quot;I  know  how  to  respect  my-  self.  ...&quot;  Nonie  held  her  head  in  such  a  way  when  she  was  dressed  up  that  it  looked  as  if  she  were  in  sunlight  and  wind-  she  was  that  confident  of  being  pretty.  And  it  worked:  a  lot  of  people  who  didn't  like  her  thought  she  was  likable  -somewhere,  to  others.  I  never  saw  Nonie  lose  her  nerve.  Not  once.  Lila  feels  that  hate  is  to  be  expected  as  ageneral  rule  and  that  Nonie  lays  down  her  fortifications  and  tactics  steadily  and  from  early  in  theday.  Nonie  says,  &quot;I  like  everyone.  I  think  well  of  everyone.&quot;  She  didn't  expect  a  future  in  which  anyone  would  keep  track  of  her  state-  ments  and  her  acts.  Lila:  &quot;Sympathy's  not  so  wonderful.  It's  what  you  get  when  you're  down  and  out  and  no  one's  scared  of  you  anymore.  I'd  rather  be  hated.&quot;  Like  Nonie-nervy,  brave,  hated,  and,  I  have  to  hand  it  to  her,  in  many  ways,  free.  Nonie:  &quot;I'm  not  good  around  sick-  ness  and  sick  people-they  only  care    " b"about  themselves.  If  you  can't  love  somebody,  just  keep  your  mouth  shut  -that's  what  I  always  say.&quot;  Nonie  could  not  ever  once  genu-  inely  give  sympathy.  She  wanted  it,  but  she  was  too  angry  to  give  it;  Momma  had  foxed  her  in  this  area-  Nonie's  asking  for  it  seriously  meant  Nonie  was  really  defeated,  and  Nonie  couldn't  do  that.  She  couldn't  ask  for  real  sympathy.  And  she  was  too  jeal-  ous  of  it  and  too  embattled  and  too  enamored  of  what  other  people  might  have  in  the  way  of  it  for  her  ever  to  relax  about  it-or  give  it;  it  was  an  incredible  issue  with  her.  It  made  her  raw  and  sore  and  gave  her  little  rest.  With  sympathy  ruled  out,  when  someone  was  weakened  you  couldn't  love  them.  Nonie  thought  she  was  like  everyone:  she  had  evidence  that  some  people  were  like  her,  so  everyone-  everyone  nice-was.  (If  you  weren't  like  her,  you  weren't  nice.)  She  firmly,  crazedly  believed  love-among-the-  healthy  didn't  involve  sympathy  at  all  but  only  envy  and  acquisition.  The  sick  can't  have  or  get  first-rate  love-  real  love-so  you  should  shut  up  about  your  flaws  and  admire  the  leading  woman.  And  since  you  don't  (can't)  love  someone  sick,  you  should  shut  up  about  sympathy  except  as  a  matter  of  lying  socially.  Nonie:&quot;I  like  love,  but  I'm  not  sloppy.&quot;  Lila  felt  that  love,  romantic  love  or  family  love  or  both,  was  a  lot  of  mad-  ness.  Lovers  attack  you.  She  felt  she  had  theright  to  be  disgusted  when  loved,  to  feel  grabbed  at-she  used  cruelty  to  breathe,  to  live.  But  she  felt  love,  she  felt  suffocated,  she  felt  cruel-  &quot;|  ty-she  was  a  feeling-rid-  dled  narcissist.  But  Nonie  would  have  nothing  to  do  with  any  of  that;  everything  was  spoken  of  as  if  sunlit;  all  endings  werehappy  endings  (unless  she  was  saddened);  &amp;  real  love  was  a  sort  of  splen-  dor  of  games,  a  local  equality-of-  scrapping-with  Nonie  on  top.  Hearty,  athletic  sentiment:  straightforward  se-  crecy;  propaganda;  festivities  in  the  present  moment  of  being  the  center-of-  a-story:  Nonie  in  love,  this  was  Nonie  in  love-&quot;I'm  in  love  with  love,  I'm  hard  to  please  when  it  comes  to  men.&quot;  Christ,  I  didn't  want  to  know  her-  but  I  was  used  to  it.  It  was  an  entire  metaphysics  in  its  way-her  attitudes  and  her  victories  in  the  Present  Mo-  ment  and  her  prettiness  and  her  being  a  trap  for  anyone  who  went  near  her,  since  there  was  no  tradeoff,  there  was  MARCH  5,  1984  only  Nonie's  rules,  Nonie's  victories,  Nonie's  view  of  how  one  was  likable  or  else  a  drip.  Or  an  enemy  to  be  punished.  Lila:  &quot;I  wasn't  a  mother  end  aper-  son-I  was  all  ome  person,  and  that  was  a  mistake;  Nonie  learned  a  lot  of  wrong  things  from  me.  Maybe  every-  thing's  a  mistake.  What  do  you  think  of  that  philosophy?&quot;  She  told  Nonie,  &quot;For  a  number  of  reasons,  don't  attract  too  much  atten-  tion.  You  can't  afford  it.&quot;:  Insult  and  curse-but  Nonie  lived  by  it,  although  she  denied  it.  &quot;I  don't  listen  to  you.  You're  jeal-  ous.  I  will  never  listen  to  you,  and  you  can  save  your  breath.  Oh,  it's  terrible  -I  have  to  have  you  for  a  mother.&quot;  &quot;She  can't  think.  She  doesn't  know  what  she's  doing.&quot;  &quot;I  do,  too-you're  the  fool  -&quot;  In  a  very  real  sense,  Nonie  did  know.  Nonie's  thought  did  exist.  Nonie  did  not  admit  she  was  gambling  on  being  right:  part  of  why  she  was  so  dictatorial,  so  tyrannical,  was  that  she  believedthere  was  only  one  truth,  and  she  wanted  to  be  the  one  who  had  it,  the  chief  enforcement  officer,  the  prophetess,the  executioner.  She  ar-  gued  with  Lila  often.  She  said,  &quot;'You're  too  psychological,  everyone's  too  psychological-I  like  some  psy-  chology-but  too  much  is  just  sicken-  ing,  and  if  anyone  asks  me  that's  what  I'lltell  them.&quot;  The  generalities,  the  forgiveness.  The  authority  separate  from  her.  The  authority  of  feelings.  Of  others'  happiness.  &quot;I  hate  it  when  it  gets  sloppy  and  lets  sloppy  people  off  the  hook.&quot;  Lila  said,  &quot;Nonie,  you  don't  make  a  good  impression  if  anyone  thinks  about  it.&quot;  A  remark  of  Nonie's  made  several  hundred  times:  &quot;Nothing  ever  happened  to  me;  I  had  a  happy  life.  Noth-  A  ing  ever  went  wrong.  My  parents  loved  me.  There's  nothing  to  me,  I  guess.  I'm  just  a  smile  and  a  good  game  of  tennis  that's  what  my  husband  says.  And  maybe  Hank&quot;-her  husband-&quot;can  tell  you  I'm  good  when  the  lights  go  out.  That's  what  he  tells  me.  But  he's  a  lier.  He  likes  to  flatter  me-he  thinks  I'm  sweet.&quot;  Hank  was  incompetent  and  never  made  a  lot  of  money,  so  Nonie  kept  scrapping-she  stayed  active  in  the  world,  she  persisted  in  her  methods,  she  drank  more,  she  became  more  combative,  she  was  an  adult  form  of  Nonie,  fatter,  drunker,  meaner,  righ-  " b"teous,  and  self-assured.  Until  she  burned  to  death.  Hank  never  disagreed  with  her  in  public.  He  took  her  side  without  stint  in  her  innumerable  quarrels  and  wars.  He  was  fat  and  sly-looking  and  had  a  face  with  a  particular  expression  on  it:  a  sort  of  numbed  self-congratulation  and  childish  hurt  on  very  small  fea-  tures  set  among  the  details  of  his  sly-  ness.  He  had  no  quarrels  of  his  own,no  real  energy,  no  real  life,  no  actual  history  of  slyness-only  one  of  simple  and  extreme  complicity  with  Nonie.  I  don't  know.  The  talk  was  that  he  was  limitlessly  scared  of  her.  The  other  men  who  had  liked  her  had  not  been  like  that.  Some  had  been  remarkable.  After  her  death,  Hank  didn't  remarry.  He  worked  as  a  clerk  in  a  drugstore  after  her  death.  Before,  he  had  been  in  real  estate  but  had  been  considered  lazy  and  detached  and  inept.  Before  he  and  Nonie  married,  he  had  been  &quot;popular&quot;  and  had  been  thought  &quot;clever.&quot;  A  cousin  ofhistold  me,  &quot;He  let  her  down-he  was  no  good  at  anything-  she's  a  terrible  person-but  she  never  had  a  chance  married  to  him.  ...  He  just  dragged  her  into  a  pit-she  never  had  a  chance.&quot;  Nonie's  and  my  cousin  said,  &quot;She  ate  him  up.  Hank  never  had  a  chance  in  hell.&quot;  V  HERE  is  a  terrible  story,  not  neces-  sarily  to  be  believed:  Twice,  I  left  infant  sons  in  the  house  when  I  went  out,  and  both  died;  Nonie  was  withthem.  It's  the  worst  thing  in  my  life.  If's  the  only  thing  I  can't  bear.  The  second  time  was  just  terrible,  just  terrible.  I  did  it  to  show  I  wasn't  frightened.  The  doctors  never  knew  what  caused  either  death.  I  know  it  could  be  anything;  you  thinkI  don't  know  how  terrible  it  is  that  Ithink  what  I  think?  I'm  only  sayingI  know  what  I  know.  What  was  strange  was  that  Nonie  wasn't  upset-not  at  all.  A  mother  knows.  She  did  something.  I  know-she  said  when  I  came  home,  Momma,  nothing  happened.  I  screamed  at  her  when  I  found  out.  We  didn't  get  along  after  that.  Maybe  she  was  just  being  foolish.  Maybe  she  did  nothing,  but  it  was  something  that  bothered  her-I  don't  hate  her,  Wi-  ley.  She  never  admits  anything.  Itook  you  in  right  away-I  dared  myself.  I  wasn't  going  to  stop  living,  I  wasn't  going  to  let  everything  I  had  be  wrecked,  and  let  people  feel  sorry  for  me,  right  and  left.  I  know  I  imagine" b"things,  but  I'm  not  a  fool.  Maybe  I  ruined  her  because  of  the  way  I  THINK  ABOUT  THIS.  I  THINK  AND  I  THINK.  Maybe  she  hates  me  because  I'm  wrong  about  her-or  maybe  because  I  guess-how  canI  know?  I  don't  think  my  life  has  been  so  good  to  me  in  some  ways.  ...I  don't  care  if  she  imagined  it  or  not.  Why  does  she  hate  me  so  much  unless  it's  because  I  know?  Why  does  she  hate  everyone  so  much?  Be-  cause  mo  one's  as  bad  as  she  is?  She  -|  wants  to  think  we're  all  as  bad  as  she  is  -worse  than  she  is.  Why  does  she  &quot;|  talk  like  such  a  fool?  She's  not  a  fool.  She  tried  to  be  so  clever.  Why  did  nothing  ever  work  out  for  her?  Some-  thing's  wrong  with  her.  You  know,  she's  like  ababy  in  many  ways.  If's  so  she  won't  have  to  think  about  anything  seriously.  I'll  tell  you  something. I  will  never  know.  I  will  never  believe  anything  she  says  as  long  as  I  live.  She's  mean-she's  really  mean.  But  I  was  a  bad  mother;  my  own  mother  told  me  so;  I  know  I  let  myself  off  the  hook  when  I  think  these  things  about  the  babies.  I  get  so  miserable.  I  know  I  may  have  been  unfair  to  her  and  done  something  terrible  to  her.  SL..  always  said  I  sacrificed  Nomie  to  myself.  I  know  I  build  everything  up.  I  did  her  a  wrong  to  suspect  her.  But  no  one  pays  attention;  so  she  gets  away  with  it.  ..  .I  know  whatever  happened  was  my  fault-but  I  want  to  know  what  happened  and  I  never  will-  Did  you  and  Nonie  accuse  each  other,  Lila?  Then  Nonie  forgot  about  it  because  it  was  such  a  nightmare  for  her?  Then  Nonie  began  her  belief  that  she  had  to  fight  to  live,  that  she  was  fighting  for  her  life?  You  couldn't  keep  the  guilt  and  grief  to  yourself:  you  had  to  set  yourself  sothat  guilt  nev-  er  was  thequestion?  How  old  was  she  when  the  first  death  occurred?  Seven?  If  Nonie  was  at  fault,  was  guilty,  and  Lila  saw,  how  could  Nonie  not  speak?  I  mean,  Nonie  would  have  con-  fessed  the  first  time-M  ora,  help  me.  Wouldn't  she  have  asked  for  help?  Or  she  must  have  gotten  strange  and  set  in  her  secrecy  very  fast.  But  Lila's  story  can't  have  happened  the  way  she  told  it  to  me.  Lila  didn't  want  to  know  what  happened-she  couldn't  bear  it,  just  as  she  said.  For  instance,  maybe  Nonie  confessed  and  Lila,  afraid  she,  Lila,  would  be  blamed,  told  her  to  shut  up.  People  have  feelings.  I'm  not  a  bad  person.  Nonie  was  better  for  a  while.  We  took  you  in;  everyone  nursed  you,  even  me-me  the  least.  I  wasn't  so  good  with  babies-do  you  understand  " b"what  I'm  saying  -and  Nonie  was  better  for  a  while-a  lot  better.  You  were  in  such  bad  shape  it  didn't  mat-  ter;  no  one  would  laugh  at  me-if  things  went  wrongs  at  first,  back  then,  no  one  could  say  I  wasn't  charitable.  Bad  Lila,  not-so-bad,  isn't  that  it?  Maybe  the  first  baby  irritated  her  and  she  teased  it  too  roughly,  and  it  had  a  defect  and  would  have  died  anyway,  but  it  happened  then.  And  the  other  was-I  don't  know  what-an  acci-  dent.  Nonie's  so  proud,  it's  as  good  as  murdering  her  to  disapprove  of  her.  Do  you  know  what  being  realistic  is?  It  means  taking  risks.  ...  Moral  risks.  Was  Nonie  innocent  at  the  begin-  ning?  Nonie:  I'm  not  a  booky  Jew.  I'm  a  tennis  player.  Momma's  and  Nonie's  wit-and  bitterness-toward  moral  chivalry  and  the  world  of  intellect  made  them  par-  tisans  of  common  sense:  I  don't  read;  I'm  practical.  Nonie  had  a  pet.  She  let  it  die,  too.  To  punish  herself,  Momma?  Me,  I  don't  care  for  Nonie;  I  think  everything's  better  since  she's  dead.  But  if  I  posit  her  as  deciding-to-live,  if  I  posit  EVERYONE  as  causing  moments  of  horror  and  defeat  in  numbers  of  other  people  as  Nonie  did,  and  if  I  believe  that  the  grounds  of  faith,  and  forgiveness,  are  only  human  and  need  not  be  fine  or  pure,  then  I'm  left  with  an  unliterary  sympathy,  and  with  a  resigned  and  filthy  kinship  to  her-  The  two  of  you,  peas  ina  pod,  after  all.  Well,  who's  an  angel?  But  I  am,  God  damn  it,  I  am.  I  remember  when  Nonie  was  fifteen  going  on  sixteen,  how  she  practiced  in  front  of  the  mirror  and  taught  herself  to  look-and  in  a  way  be-virginal,  and  to  have  a  frightening  rough  aspect  of  never-doing-any-harm;  but  the  un-  derneath  is  poking  out;  she's  a  punish-  ing  and  mindless  lover,  a  fearless  lover,  a  peerlessinfatuate,  fully  and  quickly  enraged,  but  how  can  you  love anything  if  you're  unwilling  to  be  frightened?  And  she  was  bound  end  determined  to  be  fearless  as  long  as  she  could.  I  don't  understand  Nonie,  Momma  says.  What  no  one  tells  a  parent  would  fill  a  book.  ...  What  children  do  when  they're  alone  is  as  strange  as  what  absolute  emperors  do  on  their  thrones.  Imagine  a  single  overriding  heartbeat  that  commands  the  universe  of  a  house.  T  he  maid  we  hadwas  sick  that  day.  When  I  came  home,  the  infant  was  in " b"the  crib,  fat  and  still-it  had  no  marks.I  can  talk  about  it  but  I  can't  think  about  it.  Ifs  the  one  thing  I  can't  think  about.  Maybe  I  took  some  of  it  out  on  you,  Wiley:  you  never  looked  like  you  could  die.  I  came  home,  and  Nonie  was  in  the  hall,  and  she  said,  &quot;Momma,  nothing  happened.  I'm  sleepy.&quot;  The  death  of  an  infant.  If  only  one  had  died  and  not  two.  Maybe  she  could  bear  some  gilt.  Then  the  second  time,  innocent  or  not,  the  unpracticed  mind  went  hay-  wire.  Or  she  had  been  insensately  brave-a  monster  of  bravery,  a  girl  Achilles,  a  strong-hearted  girl  loose  in  the  world.  I  know  what  Daddy  said:  We/l,  we'll  manage;  we'll  fix  things  up;  it's  not  the  end  of  the  world.  And:  Lile,  I  advise  you,  no  one  will  pay  attention  if  we  just  drop  the  sub-  pect.  It  is  partly  a  device.  Nonie  is  a  wronged  girl,  a  wronged  soul.  Nonie  is  sensitive,  mistreated-this  is  said  or  claimed  as  the  ground  for  moral  char-  ity.  She  is  a  spoiled  and  affluent  girl.  She  is  lordly,  cheerful,  obtuse-en-  raged.  Enraged,  she  insists  on  her  own  happiness.  She  is  forgetful-she's  without  Futurity.  People  have  to  live.  ...  We  live  day  by  day....  We  do  the  best  we  can....  Nonie  has  no  drama,  no  story  at  all:  she  has  only  triumphs-and  Normality.  If  you  ask  me,  it  hurts  too  much  to  think;  Pd  rather  be  natural.  We  are  playing  one  time  and  she  says,  I  don't  like  your  face-here,  wear  this  pillow  ...it's  just  a  game  ...  don't  cry.  ...  Active,  bright-cheeked,  wooden-  faced  Nonie.  Nervous,  shrill-voiced  little  Jew,  a  lying  lynx  mask  of  yellow  glass  blurs  her  eyes.  A  piece  of  futu-  rity,  a  child,  she  carries  in  her  a  large  part  of  Lila-and  of  [REDACTED]  We  love  her.  We  love  her  plenty-  till  the  cows  come  home.  Up  to  a  point,  and  then  I  have  to  draw  the  line.  It  was  taken  seriously  when  she  got  upset  about  my  disdain  for  her  and  she  shouted:  LISTEN  TO  ME-HE  NEVER  TAKES  MY  SIDE,  HEDOESN'T  ACT  LIKE  MY  BROTHER,  HE  DOESN'T  CARE  WHAT  HAPPENS  TO  ME.  When  she  was  younger,  Nonie  was  right  in  there,  among  one's  emotions,  one's  reasons.  She  looks  a  little  sneaky,  a  little  scared,  a  little  triumphant,  but  she's  there,  she  matters.  She  looks  sad,  too,  and  enraged:  she  wants  to  matter  more  than  she  does.  Lila  says,  She's  my  daughter-I'm  stuck.  Well,  I'm  not  going  to  throw  her  or  my  life  out  the  window.  She  sees  Nonie  as  becoming  finer  if  she  can  become  less  autonomous,  if  she  listens-and  is  more  obedient:  and  swindleable:  listening  is  giving  in.  &quot;Wiley,  would  you  do  something  for  me?  Would  you  do  exything?&quot;  The  more  Nonie  &quot;loves,&quot;  the  more  secret  and  &quot;passionate&quot;  inrequest  she  becomes,  the  more  she  has  an  aura  of  request.  She  asks,  and  extorts:  Taoke-  my-filth;  I  have  your  virtues  because  I  love  you.  A  kind  of  competition.  &quot;Love&quot;  as  competition.  &quot;Love&quot;  is  here.  Nonie  doesn't  know  how  to  love.  What  is  anyone's  life,  what  is  my  life  worth  if  it  is  at  Nomie's  disposal,  her  willful  disposal,  at  any  point  of  her  argument,  her  emergencies?  When  Nonie  looks  shiny  and  well  tended,  she  gets  more  admiration;  it  is  perceptible  that  her  value  increases  she  is  what-she-is  plusthe  efforts  of  those  who  tend  her.  Nonie,  pink  haunches,  bitten  fingernails,  when  she's  Nonie-who-doesn't-have-to-lift-  a-finger,  when  she's  an  angel  and  per-  fect,  grades  us  loudly  on  how  well  we  nurture  her  because  we  are  responsible  then  for  how  virtuous  she  can  risk  being.  I  need  this-or-that:  make  Wiley  help  me.  Daddy  said,  Lincoln  freed  the  slaves,  hon.  If  her  eyes  are  canny  when  she  leans  back  in  a  chair  and  stares  over  at  us,  past  her  slightly  bulbous  torso,  and  uses  her  clearly  compromised  inno-  cence  to  make  us  Aiss-her-ass,  her  claims  of  innocence,  her  privileges  as  a  child,  then  what  have  we  become?  Daddy  says,  in  fake  ruralese,  Dor't  get  too  big  for  your  britches,  sweetie,  or  the  goblins'll  git  you  good  if  you  don't  watch  out.  Nonie  says,  &quot;Daddy's  jealous  of  me,  too!&quot;  She's  perceptive  in  her  way.  If  you  generalize  too  intently  from  yourself  and  your  experiences,  if  you  make  your  tics  into  universals,  you  claim  an  emperor's  privileges.  Momma  says  to  Nonie,  &quot;You're  too  pudgy  to  have  such  a  swelled  head-  dearest.&quot;  \xc2\xabIT&quot;S  PURE  JEALOUSY!&quot;  Nonie  says.  &quot;I'm  not  wrong-you  are!&quot;  Does  Nonie  become  ...  pure  ...  when  she  plays  tennis?  She  says  she's  not  bored  then-she  feels  good:  that's  a  state  of  piety  for  her.  Human  politics,  if  controlled,  seem  to  her,  to  me,  a  kind  of  beauty;  they  become  a  kind  of  beauty-the  future  opened  and  mutual  like  that-but  it's  a  little  rough.  Lila  says,  I  like  the  lest  laugh  as  well  as  anyone.  Daddy:  He  who  gets  the  last  laugh  better  laugh  quietly,  or  the  goblins'll  git  him,  I  betcha.  Nonie's  your  enemy  if  you  laugh  at  her.  Never  Tease  Nonie  is  your  nick-  name,  Daddy  said  to  her.  Be  a  good  sport.  &quot;I'm  not  going  to  bea  good  sport.  I  have  my  self-respect.&quot;  Nonie  hasher  self-respectoften.  Maybe.  We  expect  policemen  to  die  for  Nonie,  butthey  may  not  want  to  if  they  know  her.  It's  better  for  her  if  people  think  of  her  as  A  Daughter,  A  Girl,  A  Woman  rather  than  if  they  look  very  hard  at  her.  I  don't  get  to  dislike  Nonie-she  is  A  Sister-but  isn't  it  unfair  to  treat  human  love  as  ifit  had  less  choice  than  dislike  does?  I  mean,  if  it  has  to  be  assigned  to  this  one  and  that  one,  whereas  dislike  is  freed,  is  part  of  your  free  will,  isn't  love  insulted?  Can't  I  love  where  I  choose?  In  life,  it's  dis-  gusting  to  treat  Nonie  as  if  she  were  pious  or  reliable,  as  Annemarie  is.  If  I'm  supposed  to  love  her  because  she's  in  trouble,  that's  no  good-if  you  give  Nonie  special  rights  because  of  an  emergency,  she'll  create  fake  emergen-  cies.  Emergency  is  a  social  form  for  her,  a  device  of  hers.  When  it's  clear  to  Nonie  that  she's  not  innocent  enough  for  Daddy,  that  he  will  not  die  to  preserve  or  enhance  her  life,  she  becomes  frantic.  She  suf-  fers  then.  He  is  not  a  mystery  to  her,  or  foreign,  and  so  she  finds  him  to  be  just  at  times.  She  knows  him  and  she  wants  him  to  love  her,  and  she  gets  angry  and  unpersuaded  about  every-  thing,  maybe  strange-in-the-head,  if  he  makes  it  too  clear  that  her  habits  and  systems  have  worn  him  out.  Here  she  is,  reading  the  comics  aloud  as  if  to  show  how  wellshe  reads  and  how  naive  she  is,  while  Daddy  " b"reads  his  paper  in  a  chair  near  her.  She  lies  on  the  floor  and  chants  the  words  -she's  playing  with  images  of  inno-  cence:  she  is  nine  and  cold,  eleven  and  cool  and  malign,  thirteen  and  moody  -Daddy  recognizes  her  courtship:  he  embraces  her  thoughtlessly,  heatedly;  and  she  laughs  at  him  and  is  appalled  and  observant  in  her  coquetry  of  guilt  and  shameless  virginity-a  virginity  she  will  improve  on  when  she  sets  to  work  on  it,  when  she's  sixteen.  She  tests  her  power  over  him  in  his  heat-  she  does  it  by  rebuking  his  heat.  Momma  laments,  Way  isn't  she  smarter'  Why  can't  she  learn  how  to  han-  dle  him?  It  would  make  my  life  so  much  easier.  She  means  Daddy's  bored  and  wants  to  have  interests-in-  life.  Why  not  Nonie?  But  he  doesn't  like  Nonie's  using  her  body's  power  (and  his  blood  in  her)  and  the  past,  when  she  was  tiny,  over  him.  He  ignores  her  even  when  listening  to  her,  and  he  tries  to  enjoy  her  as  best  he  can.  Daddy  says,  IP's  worth  every  cent  I  have  just  tosee  you  happy.  When  he's  angry,  he  says,  You're  so  greedy  I  don't  think  you'd  spare  ten  cents  to  save  my  life.  Once  when  he  was  angry  he  accused  me:  Would  you  give  ten  cents  to  spare  your  sister's  life?  Would  I?  No.          MPa  Ei  uk  VI  ACK  when  I  was  a  little  kid,  when  we  were  all  sincere  that  day  -in  the  lightning  storm-Nonie  was  suffering  and  it  was  pleasure  and  no  pleasure  at  all  to  see  her  like  that.  Daddy's  not  insincere  exactly,  but  what  fantasy-and-reality  of  his  is  he  instructing  her  in  as  a  truth  when  he  says,  &quot;Nonie,  Nonie  darling,  you  have  to  stop&quot;?  Have  to  means  what?  The  or  else  is  what?  (&quot;He's  not  simple-he  was  always  too  much  for  me,&quot;  Lila  said.)  &quot;Nomie,  it's  killing  me-you're  kill-  ing  me.  Oh,  hon,  what  can  I  do  to  help?&quot;  It  used  to  be  that  before  there  were  painkillers  people  went  mad  from  toothache  sometimes.  He  means  she  will  destroy  him  and  who  will  take  care  of  her  then?  Is  that  the  threat?  She  can  kill  him  this  way  and  he  won't  fight  back,  but  he  won't  die  to  help  herfirst-she  tries  to  figure  it  out  without  words:  you  can  see  it  on  her,  face,  that  she's  trying  to  figure  it  out,  the  cathedral  child,  our  cathedral  virrane  gin,  she  wants  to  comprehend  the  stained-glass  devotion  of  the  man  while  she  is  in  a  state  of  unsubdued  terror,  but  I  don't  think  she  can  do  it;  it  makes  her  suffer  more;  it  makes  her  crazier.  These  are  some  of  the  politics  of  actual  love,  actual  terror.  Her  safety,  her  well-being,  is  a  mark  of  our  excel-  lence  and  refinement.  In  Nonie,  in  her  eyes,  in  her  ideals,  in  her  touch,  is  a  bleakness,  a  bleak  area-a  distance,  a  landscape,  a  wordlessness  that  still  is  human,  is  well  within  the  species'  limits.  I  guessshe  reads  Daddy's  attitude  as  indifference.  Indifference  to  her  invites  her  violence,  the  girl  in  the  rainstorm-her  prettiness,  her  bitten  fin-  gernails.  She  knocks  a  doll  off  a  longish  wooden  rack  on  a  bookcase;  but  then  she's  afraid  right  away  and  she  says,  &quot;I  DIDN'T  DO  THAT.  IT  JUST  BROKE.  IT  JUST  BROKE!&quot;  It  was  rubberoid  and  it  tore,  but  she  says  it  broke.  She  looks  sly,  then  woodenly  inno-  cent.  Nonie  defeated  me  often  over  the  years-and  even  now  her  shadow  threatens  me  in  any  number  of  ways.  I  kind  of  sincerely  mean  it  when  I  say,  God  damn  her  to  hell.  The  silver-gray-white  lightning  pushes  a  dark  tree  trunk  racingly  onto,  into  the  window,  into  the  room-it  flies  into  my  eyes,  my  mind,  where  it  shivers,  vibrates,  is  stilled.  Nonie  stands  in  the  passionate  thin  albino  reality  of  the  light.  Leapingly  it  recedes  across  her  glaring  eye  sockets.  Across  Daddy's  white-shirted  chest.  &quot;GO  TALK  TO  IT,  YOU  SON  OFA  BITCH.  MAKE  IT  STOP.  IT'S  A  BAD  LIGHT,  DADDY.&quot;  Then  to  Annemarie:  &quot;GO  STAND  BY  THE  WINDOW.  YOU'RE  FAT;  WE  PAY  YOU  MONEY-LET  IT  cET  you!&quot;  She  knows  herself  to  be  the  cheated  one  now  -she's  not  an  able  lawyer,  not  proficient  at  contention  in  words  and  principles  atthis  time,  in  this  tribunal.  Whosoever's  lightning  itis,  why  doesn't  Daddy  help  her?  Shadows  mar  the  faceof  the  moon,  are  in  her  mouth:  &quot;MAKE  IT  GO  KILL  MOMMA!  MOMMA  TELLS  LIES.  MAKE  IT  GO  KILL  MOMMA,  BURN  HER  UP.  IT  CAN  TURN  HER  BLACK.&quot;  Sins  are  those  acts  that  guarantee  defeat,  Nonie  was  sinless,  for  all  prac-  tical  purposes,  until  the  damned  light-  ning  started.  &quot;For  God's  sake,  hon-&quot;  The  child-me-laughs  at  Nonie's                     MARCH  5,  1984  stricken  and  illumined  and  knotted  face.  &quot;I  DON'T  LIKE  IT!&quot;  Nonie  shouts.  She's  given  up  inside  herself,  to  some  extent,  momentarily.  She  faces  blinkingly  the  maybeHoly  Beast  ...  outside  ...  in  the  room  sud-  denly:  the  Angelic  Flutter  of  this  In-  justice,  the  paw  of  The  Beast  of  Inter-  rogation,  the  loss  of  her  citizenship  that  this  represents.  Then  she  grabs  the  doll  she  knocked  off  the  rack;  she  stoops,  grabs-swiftly-and  throws  it:  a  gesture  of  unmaternal  shamelessness.  The  seriousnessof  the  Onslaught,  to  supplya  recent  crime  in  this  cruelly  unfavoring  context;  a  mock  sacrifice;  a  display  of  ritual  temper  in  the  flat-  footed  girl  who  is  the  soul  of  quick  logic  and  respectability  but  who  has  just  done  something  not  so  bad....  It's  a  kind  of  weird  combination  of  things  passionate  and  harshly  shrewd  but  childlike  in  her.  Spittle  is  on  her  chin,  and  Daddy  is  crying.  Short  of  her  death,  and  not  even  then,  in  a  way,  she  doesn't  have  to  feel  she  is  inferior.  As  a  fighter,  she  was,  on  occasion,  happy:  she  could  feel  tri-  umphant,  pure,  well  loved,  well  taken  care  of,  whether  in  much  of  a  true  way  she  was  or  not.  Nonie  in  her  terror  looks  innocent  again.  It's  Nonie  still  in  the  little  openings  when  her  terror  lets  up.  She  is  riddled  by  thoughts,  her  kind  of  thoughts;she  has  her  kind  of  thought-  ful  terror.  Is  there  such  a  thing  as  a  lesser  soul?  What  if  she  really  is  as  good  as  me?  Jesus!  Don't  hurt  me,  God,  for  judging  her.  The  doll  she  threw  is  one  she  never  liked,  that  useful  (or  placatory)  sin.  She  is  panting  and  outraged-and  full  of  waiting.  ..  .  A  ghost  appears  at  the  window,  running  with  water,  howling  gutturally-it  ignores  the  offering,  it  runs  toward  Nonie.  And  she  screams.  She  makes  a  movement  of  terror;  bent  over,  she  clutches  her  own  thigh.  The  intruding  light  swells  and  ebbs.  Nonie  spits  and  dribbles-she  cowers,  rouses  herself;  she  perseveres  and  is  brave-  that  is  to  say,  impenitent.  Impenitence  is  useful  to  her  here.  I  want  Nonie  broken  and  penitent  and  saved.  The  ammoniac  smell  of  her  pee  and  the  frenzy  of  her  resistance  afflict  me.  Can  someone  make  her  pen-  itent,  short  of  violence  and  horror  stronger  than  her  own!?  I  don't  want  it  to  be  like  this.  Nonie's  open  mouth  and  soldiering  " b"eyes  and  the  walls  of  the  room  and  Annemarie's  face  and  breast  are  cov-  ered  with  wrecked  light,  the  fleering  shadow-films  of  the  rain-the  rain's  shadows.  Come  on,  gang,  let's  all  pitch  in  and  SAVE  our  Nonie  now.  My  NONIE.  The  rain  noises  are  like  ahorse  snuffling,  a  lynx  breathing  in  my  ear,  in  a  dream.  Nonie  is  looking  at  Daddy:  &quot;YOU  DON'T  CARE  ABOUT  ME.  YOU  DON'T  TAKE  MY  SIDE  EVER.  YOU  HATE  ME.  YOU  WANT  ME  DEAD.  I  [REDACTED]  YOU.  GOD  DAMN  YOU.  I  WON'T  LOVE  YOU  ANYMORE-GET  OUT  ON  THE  LAWN.  LET  THE  LIGHTNING  GET  YOU.  PM  NOT  BAD.  LET  IT  GET  YOU,  DADDY.&quot;  Jesus,  it's  almost  funny-it's  funny  if  you  have  no  heart.  YOU'RE  BAD.  YOU  HATE  ME.&quot;  She  kicks  at  Annemarie:  &quot;YOU  FAT  BITCH,  GOD  DOESN'T  LIKE  YOU  AT  ALL.  YOU  PLAY  WITH  YOURSELF  AND  LIE.  YOU  GET  OVER,  YOU  GET  OVER  BY  THE  WINDOW.&quot;  I  can't  imagine  life  experienced  as  blamelessness.  Nonie  is  a  distraught  child.  Daddy  says,  &quot;Nonie,  you're  break-  ing  my  heart.&quot;  He  doesn't  want  to  touch  her  while  she's  sweaty  with  emergency  and  cra-  ziness  and  whatever,  and  while  she's  undulating  and  spitting,  and  is  hot  and  fat  and  cold  with  terror  and  a  kind  of  soul's  starvation  and  bitterness.  Daddy's  gentleness  is  unreliable.  He  doesn't  want  to  learn  emything  today.  He  often  says  Nonie's  perfect,  and  he  avoids  her-he  avoids  modifying  his  sweet  view  that  Nonie's  sweet,  she's  perfect,  she  is  sinless,  she  will  never  die,  she  ought  never  to  suffer:  &quot;Nonie,  honey,  my  head  hurts.  Please,  honey.&quot;  &quot;&quot;I  READ  YOUR  LETTERS  IN  YOUR  DESK.  I  [REDACTED]  ABOUT  YOU.  I  [REDACTED]  THE  THING  YOU  DO  WITH  ANGELA.&quot;  Angela  Martin  runs  his  office.  &quot;Nonie-that's  enough,  that's  enough  filth.  You  don't  want  to  do  that,  you  don't  want  to  do  this  to  me.  My  heart  is  breaking,  Nonie.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;DON'T  TOUCH  ME.  YOU  LIE.  I  WANT  TO  GET  AWAY  FROM  YOU.  I  WANT  TO  [REDACTED]  NICE  PEOPLE.&quot;  \xc2\xab'Nonie,  you  don't  know  what  you're  saying.  You  like  your  home.  The  bluebird  is  right  here.  You'll  find  I'm  right.  People  here  care  about  you,  be  assured  of  that,  hon.  Be  smart,  honey.&quot;  He  shouldn't  tell  her  to  be  smart  in  a  voice  that's  sad  and  that  has  longing     in  it.  It  scrapes  on  her  nerves  and  her  sensibility,  her  sense  of  things.  &quot;\xc2\xa5yOU  DON'T  [REDACTED]  ANY-THING,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;&quot;YOU  NEVER  [REDACTED]  ANY-  THING.  EVERYBODY  SAYS  YOU'RE  A  FOOL.&quot;  She  is  frantic.  But  it's  clear  that  she  does  love  him,even  if  mostly  in  the  sense  that  she  wants  things  from  him.  &quot;Nonie,  please:  forgive  and  forget.  We  are  who  we  are;  everybody  has  to  learn  to  put  up  with  what  they  can  get.  We  can't  keep  track  of  every  little  thing,  or  we'll  wind  upon  the  rubbish  heap.&quot;  Nonie  shouts-as  if  to  a  ghost;  she  is  addressing  a  confusion,  Lila  maybe  -maybe  me:  &quot;HE'S  JY  FATHER.  HE  LOVES  ME.  HE  WANTS  TO  DO  THINGS  FOR  ME.  YOU  WANT  HIM  TO  DO  THINGS  ONLY  FOR  YOU.  YOU'RE  SELF-  ISH  AND  I  HATE  YOU.  YOU  SHOULD  BE  DEAD.&quot;  &quot;We  know  it's  a  bad  time  for  you,  honey,&quot;  Daddy  says,  in  a  mournful  voice.  He  wasn't  listening.  Nonie  soldiers  away  still  in  a  swift  and  eerie  light.  The  great  round  noise  comes  rolling  in;  it  smoothly  shrinks  away.  Daddy  doesn't  mind  what  shedoes  as  much  as  I  do  because  he  loves  end  forgives  (and  he  forgets).  Also,  he  doesn't  care  the  same  way  I  do.  Some-  times  he  does,  but  he  can  take  up  and  drop  fatherhood,  he  can  take  up  and  drop  his  romance  with  her.  She's  a  child-what  doesshe  know!?  Nonie  has  something  tough  in  her  bulging  and  toughly  outward-focussed  eyes-even  in  extreme  terror.  You  can't  see  into  her  eyes:  she  doesn't  want  you  to.  If  Nonie  were  finally  to  come  to  harm  today,  if  she  were  to  change  now  in  any  way  that  would  be  disapproved  of  widely,  if  she  were  to  become  miserable  for  a  long  time-if  she  stops  fighting  and  takes  a  riskof  being  another  sort  of  person  (or  child),a  sad  or  hurt  child,  even  if  a  sweet  one,  easily  de-  feated,  always  ashamed  and  unhappy  -[REDACTED]  would  be  as  if  emasculated.  He  would  not  be  comfortable  if  she  be-  came  more  sexual-and  less  mean.  He  would  like  her  more  but  he  would  suffer  then,  too.  Nonie  knows  that-  she  will  try  at  times  to  shame  him  willfully,  in  revenge,  as  his  lover,  tidy-  ing  up  the  past  and  making  it  fair-I  mean  just.  Honestly  sexless  in  a  sense.  She  is  maybe  angrily  defeated-with-  out  hope.  Her  state  is  jumbled.  For  a  moment,  she  is  pure.  But  she  attaches" b"the  change  in  her  not  to  being  threatened  by  justice  but  to  being  un-  fairly  cut  off  from  having-a-good-life,  joyous  and  comfortable,  the  sort  of  life  Daddy  wants  for  her.  She  will  be  more  fierce-and  desperately  unrepentant-  more  hysterical  and  mad  if  she  is  per-  manently  defeated  today  but  not  hurt  for  once  and  for  all  into  that  other  state  of  gentleness-and  civilization.  Daddy  has  to  dodge  Nonie  and  the  nature  of  her  disasters-or  this  one  disaster,  here-or  he  can't  live.  He's  running  away  even  as  he  sort  of  tends  to  her  and  is  present.  Maybe  he  thinks  Momma  will  seeto  it  that  this  isn't  a  disaster;  Momma  is  gambling  at  this  moment  that  Nonie  won't  throw  her-  self  out  the  window,  that  Nonie  won't  have  serious  hysterics-or  abreak-  down,  upstairs,  today,  et  cetera.  Momma  is  keeping  her  nerve,  down-  stairs  with  the  company.  Momma  and  Nonie  each  blame  the  other's  character  and  the  other's  being  nerve-racking  for  [REDACTED]'s  erraticisms  of  attachment  to  them.  Daddy  is  holding  me;  I  start  to  wriggle  and  he  bends  to  put  me  down  rather  than  risk  squeezing  or  juggling  me.  I  want  to  give  Nonie  my  hope.  I  want  her  penitent-and  saved.  No  one  will  do  this,  only  me.  Momma  said  once,  I  want  to  go  for  six  months  without  telling  a  single  lie.  You  know,  it  takes  real  nerve  to  lie  in  front  of  the  whole  world  and  then  wait  and  see  what  happens  to  you.  In  Daddy's  grip-held  by  his  hands  at  the  end  of  his  outstretched  arms-I  press  one  foot  down  on  the  carpet.  In  Nonie's  room.  In  this  house.  I  want  to  go  to  Nonie.  &quot;Go  to  Annemarie,&quot;  Daddy  says  to  the  stretched-out,  spinally  twisted  kid.  My  heartbeat  is  a  mass  of  knocking  pulsations  in  me.  The  rainlight  in  the  room  is  darkish-browns  and  gray-  blues-and  a  lot  of  wet  is  in  the  air.  Nonie's  hands  are  the  same  color  as  a  puddle.  The  grownups'  speeches  are  the  dif-  ferently  weighted  branches  of  a  tree.  I  am  a  child;  I  am  intent  on  Nonie,  one  child  to  another-I  join  myself  to  her  now  in  the  separate  sect.  When  I  start  toward  No-  nie,  Annemarie  shouts,  &quot;NEIN!,&quot;  and  Daddy  drags  me  back.  See,  here  is  Nonie  as  a  marvel-her  reality  is  part  of  the  lied-about,  filthy  jate  sweetness  of  childhood.  I  te  remember  Nonie-this-girl-  _fCo  No  IAF  here,  the  one  in  pain,  the  one  I  want  to  help,  not  Nonie-of-other-times  much.  I'm  about  to  do  something,  I'm  about  to  go  and  hug  mad,  am-  moniacal  Nonie.  Daddy  and  Anne-  marie  think  Nonie  is  very  bad  or  they  would  notbe  trying  to  prevent  me.  But  in  my  mind  they  are  quiet.  I  have  a  steamy  chaos  in  me.  All  order  is  concentrated  in  my  will-my  concen-  tration.  They  don't  matter-Nonie's  in  pain.  I  tear,  I  pierce  the  bedmess  in  the  room.  I  move  toward  her  legs,  the  reachable  legs  below  the  terrified  and  stony  face  of  the  shouting  girl.  In  her  anger  and  piteous  prettiness  and  feroc-  ity  and  blindness,  Nonie  is  here.  I  hug  her  smelly  leg.  ...  I  preferred  having  her  be  calm  to  having  her  sacrificed  in  order  to  have  a  world  with  less  evil  in  it.  Nonie  raises  her  hand.  Her  hand  is  moving-swettingly.  Pay  no  atten-  tion.  Blink.  Squint.  See  the  pewter-  and-peony-skinned  child's  face  pucker.  If  you  ask  me,  it's  a  shame.  &quot;HE'S  BOTHERING  ME.&quot;  The  slap  rocked  me.  I  can't  find  the  nerve  connections  to  my  eyes.  She  damaged  my  eyes.  Maybe  I  exaggerate.  This  isn't  EVIL-this  is  just  some-  thing  that  happened.  This  is  just  something  that  happens.  The  child's  cry-that  upward  flus-  ter  and  ascent  of  anoise  of  pain  and  the  sound  of  the  slap-change  the  face  of  the  girl.  The  girl  is  wild-eyed  but  shrewd:  she  looks  like  Lila  for  a  mo-  ment.  She  gazes  around  measuringly;  then  she  glares.  The  child's  outcry  in  the  rain-dark,  in  the  wet  air,  and  the  smell  on  Nonie,  and  Nonie's  face,  its  multiple  expres-  sions,  are  gruesome,  crawly-also  sympathetically  childhoodlike.  I  DIDN'T  MEAN  ANYTHING.  IT  WAS  AN  ACCIDENT.  I  DONT  HATE  MY-  SELF,  DADDY.&quot;  -  Annemarie  and  Daddy  said  things  and  tried  to  pull  me  away  from  Nonie,  but  I  clung  to  her.  You'll  survive.  She  feels  the  stupidity  of  having  shown  the  quick  automatism  of  her  temper  in  front  of  DADDY.  She  feels  her  terror  still-the  storm  is  still  rag-      ing  outside-and  now  she  is  an-  guished  and  chagrined:  is  that  guilt?  For  a  few  seconds,  Nonie  blacks  out.  She  hopes  to  return  from  her  terror  to  some  more  central  space.  She  says,  &quot;HE  WAS  BOTHERING  ME,  DADDY.&quot;  She  squints  as  if  she  were  being  beaten  on  -in  innocence.  With  one  hand,  in  a  gesture  of  pudgy  unanger,  while  she  stares  at  Daddy,  she  clubs  the  kid  with  blows  of  erratic  trajectory,  some  quite  brief,  a  coverup,  a  risk  to  make  her  accusation  look  true-her  nerves  are  strung  tight-she's  embarrassed  now.  The  child,  in  a  way,  expected  this.  He  has  an  odd  childhood  sense  of  futu-  rity-and  of  the  rightness  of  his  life;  he  clings  to  her  on  and  on.  Because  he  doesn't  cry  out,  Anne-  marie  stops  pulling  at  him,  she  stops  trying  to  rescue  him.  The  child's  choked,  hurried  breath,  near  his  sister,  is  as  if  around  a  hol-  lowing  and  echoing  pit  in  him  of  dev-  astations,  from  long  before  now,  from  before  Nonie,  an  old  grief,  the  dead  matter  of  a  literal  silence  in  him,  the  once  almost  dead  child.  Nothing  has  granted  Nonie  such  a  silence;  she  nev-  er  goes  inward;  she  has  no  silence  in  her;  everything  in  her  is  a  living  voice,  a  chorus  of  live  voices:  the  child  hug-  ging  her  leg  and  squinting  and  mak-  ing  no  noise  except  for  his  breath  is  in-  expressibly  foreign  to  her  in  his  mind  -in  his  presence.  His  silences.  He  is  unreal,  that  male  child,  for  Nonie-he  is  physically  real  to  her  only  as  an  emo-  tional  pressure  bound  in  his  gestures.  Demons  take  her  and  hide  her,  and  I  want  her  here.  Presence  is  an  abso-  lute  in  real  life.  Daddy  moves  forward,  takes  Nonie's  hair,  and  pulls  and  jerks  her  head  so  that  she  stops  hitting  the  kid.  He  is  embarrassed  and  backs  away  while  she  stares  at  him  .  ..  His  silence  mixes  sexual  and  paternal  shock  and  a  sense  of  justice  and  a  surging  but  suf-  focated  relieft-all  of  us  now  are  tan-  gled  in  will  and  shame.  Nonie  persists-she  grabs  my  arm  and  yanks  it,  as  she  did  her  doll's.  (She  has  the  devil  in  her.)  I  doubted  the  pain  I  felt.  The  pain  fluttered  and  slid-do  you  know  what  I  mean?  Slid  away  for  a  while,  to  some  extent:  do  you  remember  the  anesthesia  childhood  could  summon  up,  the  thick  blanketing,  the  psychic  musculature?  I  moved  into  angled  places  and  mentally  sturdy  postures  (over  an  emptiness)  well  designed  " b"for  accepting  the  hurtful  blows  while  bouncing  in  slow  ways  away  from  each  blow  in  my  childhood  reality  of  hurt,  forgiveness,  folly,  and  lunatic  willfull-  ness.  It's  easy  enough  to  think  the  kid  deserves  to  be  hit-he's  so  odd,  so  stupid,  so  alert.  Daddy  has  released  her.  I  haven't.  &quot;THERE'S  TOO  MUCH  LIGHTNING.  DADDY,  I  HATE  THE  LIGHTNING!&quot;  She  is  explaining  things  to  Daddy.  Nonie  shouted,  &quot;IT  WAS  AN  ACCI-  DENT!  She  is  trying  to  push  me  away  from  her  legs-what  use  does  she  have  for  penitence?  Daddy  says,  &quot;She's  so  upset  she  doesn't  know  what  she's  doing.  Nonie  -oh,  Nonie,  look  how  he  likes  you.&quot;  His  eyes  aren't  focussed-if  he  doesn't  look  at  her,he's  not  concerned  about  what  she  might  do,  although  it  seems  that  her  mind,  her  soul  weren't  geared  to  abhor  accidents.  Also,  Wiley  is  a  small  creature,  an  accusing  ghost  of  small  creatures  that  she's  put  or  beaten  to  death,  for  in-  stance.  His  circumstances  undermine  her  position  as  a  wronged  and  pure  child.  She  is  exasperated,  as  if  to  say  that  everyone  has  the  right  to  some  jealousy,  some  violence-the  right,  the  habit  of  those  things,  the  right,  the  habit  of  normality.  It  is  harder  for  me  to  believe  in  Nonie's  mind  as  worth  respect,  it  is  harder  for  me  to  believe  in  her  right  to  live,  than  it  is  for  me  to  accept  the  fact  of  my  own  future  death.  I  was  given  this  girl  tolove,  I  was  given  this  girl  as  a  companion  in  my  childhood-our  childhood,  I  guess.  Nonie's  eyes  aren't  blind;  she's  a  little  crazy.  I  see  her  eyes;  they're  wretched.  I  forget  my  own  feelings  at  the  sight  of  so  much  drama  and  ex-  pressiveness  as  are  in  her  eyes.  &quot;He  wents  to  help  her-look,  he  took  his  punishment,  he's  standing  his  ground-he's  a  realace,  he's  a  trooper.&quot;  I  see  uncertain  malice  in  Nonie's  eyes  now  -the  shapeless  rages  of  childhood,  its  helplessness  half-and-  half  mixed  with  I-won't-be-helpless-  anymore.  Her  malice  is  not  actually  focussed  on  me  but  on  my  not  being  as  upset  by  the  lightning  as  she  was.  I  saw  it.  She  hated  my  (temporary)  guiltlessness.  I  saw  it.  I'm  sure  that  sheexcepted  me  from  her  really  seri-  ous  rage  that  day-not  later.  Things  changed  later.  But  she  only  hated  me  a  little  thatday.  It  was  a  momentary  exemption.  But,  still,  my  innocent  kindness,  selfish  and  childish  as  it  was,  sickened  her.  The  partly  privileged  child  em-  braced  Nonie's  smelly  legs.  Her  angled  body,  her  face  are-a  fist.  Her  face  is  a  fist.  Her  whole  body  is  a  fist.  Sweat  ripples  the  already  un-  certain  planes  of  her  clayey  cheeks  above  me,  at  that  not  grownup  height  -the  sweat  further  dissolves  the  al-  ready  uncertain  outlines  of  her  anger,  her  malice-her  capacity  for  doing  harm-for  harming  me.  I  remember  her  face  from  other  moments.  I  piece  her  together  inside  myself,  where  I  am  oppressed  by  the  reality  of  the  presence  of  her  grief  and  terror,  and  mine  on  occasion  as  a  measure  and  a  conse-  quence  of  hers.Isee  her  as  a  malicious  child-she  maybe  will  be  less  ram-  bunctious  when  she  is  prettier,  or  maybe  not.  I  see  her  in  small,  ejacula-  tory  spurts  of  surprise.  I  see  a  bad  face  on  a  pretty  girl.  Then  I  see  a  wolf,  a  solitarycat  the  size  of  a  girl,  a  creature  from  down  the  street,  not  from  here,  the  animal  meanness  of  her  eyes.  Look,  my  sister  is  a  secret  thing  from  a  dream,  not  otherwise  admitted  to,  save  as  marriageable  flesh,  breeding  fodder  for  nephews.  Otherwise,  she  is  com-  pletely  hidden  from  me,  she  is  only  her  name  plus  an  epithet,  Nonie,  my  sister  -even  to  myself,  she  is  as  secret  as  that.  How  much  is  she  going  to  hurt  me  today?  How  much  will  she  insist  on  seeing  to  it  that  my  suffering  is  equal  to  hers?  It  takes  nerve  to  live-Momma  says  so.  She  has  said,  The  thing  is  to  be  quick  on  your  feet  and  not  a  coward.  [REDACTED]  says  to  Annemarie,  &quot;Stop  it-let  him  be  nice  to  her:  what  do  you  think?  That  she's  a  mad  person?  She  won't  hurt  him-she  wouldn't  hurt  a  flea.&quot;  Is  that  true?  Or  will  she  hurt  me  so  badlytoday  I  will  live  with  it  for  the  rest  of  my  life,  suffer  one  way  and  another  in  who  I  am  and  in  what  I  do,  because  of  her-is  that  what  is  going  to  happen!?  Nonie  is  looking  at  Daddy.  She  is  staring  at  him.  She  is  trembling.  She        93  moved  her  hand-Nonie  struck  me  on  the  forehead  without  looking.  &quot;It's  only  her  hand!&quot;  Daddy  shouted  at  Annemarie.  Her  hand,  then  her  elbow,  as  a  mat-  ter  of  fact.  &quot;IT  WAS  AN  ACCIDENT.  HE  BUMPED  INTO  ME.&quot;  That  was  partly  true.  &quot;Ach,  Gott,&quot;  fat  Annemarie  said.  Her  facial  posture  said  we  all  knew,  everyone  knew  Nonie  elways  lied.  Annemarie  reached  for  me  with  a  fat,  indignant  snort  of  dislike  for  Nonie.  &quot;yOU  HATE  ME.  YOU  SHOULD  BE  KILLED.&quot;  Nonie  swung  at  her.  Daddy,  partly  at  an  averted  angle-  as  if  shyly-pushed  Nonie  back  from  me;  Nonie  stumbled-but  I  went  on  clinging  to  her.  &quot;We  all  feel  bad.  Don't  say  that,  sweetie,&quot;  Daddy  said  while  he  reached,  almost  idly,  ineffectually  for  me.  My  forehead  hurts.  So  what?  The  immediacy  of  Nonie's  pain,  her  loneliness  afflict  me-I'm  in  the  shadow  of  her  emotions.  I  am  an  often  bored  child;  when  she's  in  trouble,  she  often  plays  with  me-it's  like  that  now;  we're  in  limbo.  She  and  I.  I  tug  at  her  arm-silently.  Nonie's  pain,  mine-in  the  moment-burn  me.  My  pain  is  from  loneliness  in  my  sympathy,  as  if  I'd  embarked  on  some-  thing  that  held  contractually  a  kind  of  paralyzed  or  stilled  or  dead  sense  of  myself-my  inner  deadness  and  old  grief  are  stirring  in  me,  monsters  be-  neath  their  wrappings  of  my  conceit  in  the  supposed  goodness  of  my  life.  I  am  someone-not-me  at  the  moment;  I  have  to  be  hugged  by  a  special  Nonie  who  hugs  The  Sympathizer-then,  the  child  expects,  we  will  be  freed  from  this  moment,  she  and  I,  and  we  will  pley  then-history  will  be  differ-  ent  then.  Nonie  emits  a  funny  cry  when  I  press  my  head  against  her  belly-she's  partly  bent  over,  because  of  a  bolt  of  lightning  outside.  Nonie's  noise  draws  from  [REDACTED]  a  gasp  of  intractable  empti-  ness,  his  form  of  being  gentlemanly,  a  purposeless  will-no  self,  no  selfish  will,  that  emptiness,  a  formal  thing.  pappy.  Daddy.  Do  YOU  SEE  NONIE'S  EYES?  Nonie  presses  her  hands  over  my  eyes,  over  my  mouth,  those  of  the  child,  to  be  honest-not  me  but  just  e  child  who  was  there.  &quot;Don't  be  a  second-guesser.  Stand  back.  That  child  knows.  He's  got  a  " b"good  heart.  He  knows  what  he's  do-  ing.  Let  him  do  what  he  wants  to  do.&quot;  Nonie  shoved,  she  pushed,  she  al-  most  lifted  the  child,  pushed  him  to-  ward  the  window.  The  disappearing  light  had  drawn  back,  as  if  it  had  been  poured  out  by  tilting  our  house  toward  that  window.  The  light  flowed  down  rainy  perspectives-that  fading  light  of  the  beast.  The  thunder  was  big,  thunderous  and  threatening,  wooden  and  empty,  mere  bulges  of  sound  now,  sturdy  and  fat.  I  was  joggled,  I  tot-  tered.  I  was  thrown  to  block  it,  to  dam  the  sound,  the  huge,  bodiless  gavel-  ling.  It  is  possible  I  never  knew  Nonie  well  at  all.  The  child,  at  Nonie's  shove,  plays  [REDACTED]'s  old  role,  when  he  used  to  go  stand  on  the  lawn,  or  the  torn  doll  perhaps-a  sacrifice,  a  feint,  a  Golden  Apple,  an  experiment  to  distract  the  beast.  Daddy  can't  go  toher.  My  father's  illicit,  hapless,  shamed  excitement,  au-  tomatic  and  sad,  means  he  can't  go  to  her.  Then  abruptly,  with  squinting  eyes,  she  stumbles  forward,  grabs  me,  and  she  turns  in  an  overburdened  circle.  She's  hugging  and  carrying  menow  -like  a  dog,  acaptureddog,  a  doll.  Are  you  frightened?  Will  the  horror  be  that  she  will  put  out  my  eyes?  This  is  en  environment  in  which  few  come  to  actual  harm,  this  suburb,  isn't  that  so?  Her  movements,  our  sorrow,  are  a  cumulative  muffling,  a  sort  of  special  silence.  She  turns  in  a  clumsy  circle,  like  a  walker  in  a  snowstorm.  I  disappear  in  the  white.  Lila  has  said,  &quot;Don't  bea  fool,  [REDACTED]  You  know  the  things  that  happen.&quot;  She  means:  Be  cau-  tious.  Don't  trust  people.  If  Nonie  as  an  ordinary  woman,  as  an  ordinary  per-  son,  doesn't  matter,  what  am  I  to  forgive  her  for?  If  she  does  matter,  forgiving  her  is  a  spiritual  thing  that  occurs  in  relation  to  her  con-  tinuing  repentance,  which  never  oc-  curs-and  so  my  forgiveness  is  never  there.  She's  a  fighter.  Of  what  spiritual  use  is  my  forgiveness  to  her?  It  has  only  a  tactical  value  for  her.  I  can  only  just  bear  to  admit  that  she  causes  me  pain  and  has  shaped  my  life  day  by  day,  every  day  for  most  of  my  life-no:  all  my  life.  Indifferent  for-  giveness  is  a  vile  concept:  Your  sins  don't  matter;  shut  up;  go  aways  they  don't  matter;  you're  not  in  trouble;  go  away.  Indifference  is  a  sort  of  pragmatic  absolution-and  a  mode  of  de-  struction  of  the  mind.  Besides,  I  spent  years  with  Nonie;  and  indifference  to  her  means  losing  huge  chunks  of  my-  self,  and  distrusting  my  own  darkness.  It  means  losing  my  sense  of  why  cer-  tain  kinds  of  lousiness  occur,  That  might  be  absolution,  but  it's  also  blindness  and  stench.  I'm  not  a  pope.  Nonie  is  experiencing  the  direct  in-  trusion  of  God  in  her  vicinity.  Carrying  me  in  that  burdened  and  clumsily  staggering  way,  she  says,  &quot;TAKE  AWAY  THE  FAT  ONE  THERE.  LOCK  HER  IN  A  TRUNK-IN  THE  DARK.&quot;  Nonie  keeps  moving  in  a  trapped  circle,  joggling  and  resettling  me  con-  stantly.  Nonie  wants  God  to  go  away.  We  can't  live  together  much  longer  if  Nonie  continues  to  shame  me  with  my  inability  to  console  her,  my  inability  to  keep  her  from  her  violence  and  her  undoing  herself  or  whatever.  What  Nonie  is  is  truer  over  a  longer  period  of  time,  and  more  com-  plex  as  truth,  than  almost  anything  I  ever  studied  in  school.  But  because  of  what  she  was,  and  I  was,  she  became  minor  for  me,  despite  the  extent  to  which  she  is  a  conduit  for  Evil  enter-  ing  my  world  in  my  presence,  minor  because  I  had  no  choice  but  to  love  her  to  some  extent  for  a  while.  No,  she  is  not  minor.  But  I  cannot  imagine  my-  self  punishing  her-only  competing  with  her-and  not  face  to  face,  once  I  have  the  power  to  live  as  I  choose.  Also,  I  wear  out,  my  nerves  wear  out  -they  forget  her.  The  changeability  of  my  nerves  applies  a  disguise  to  evil  in  my  world.  And  then,  of  course,  I  am  like  her  in  some  ways.  I  am  comple-  mentary  to  her,  and  Daddy  is  like  her;  and  other  men  and  women  I  know  are  like  her.  I  must  live  with  her,  she  enjoys  attacking  me,  and  I  want  someone  to  attack  her  for  me-she's  a  girl-and  so  ut  the  part  of  me  that's  like  Nonie  becomes  more  a  part  of  me,  If  I  could  catch  Nonie  in  one  of  her  acts  of  foulness,  I  might  be  able  to  kill  her-I  don't  know.  She  likes  it  that  I  loathe  her;  she's  addicted  to  it.  It  excites  her-it  soothes  her  some  when  I  hate  her:  maybe  she  will  be  tough  and  famous  in  the  world.  I  don't  know.  When  I  pause  and  listen  to  my  own  breathing  and  sort  of  firmly  want  her  dead,  I  then  abruptly  half  laugh.  I  really  do  truly  want  someone  else  to  kill  her.  I  don't  want  to  be  guilty  of  her  " b"death-this  is  a  kind  of  inhibition;  maybe  it's  despicable.  We're  still  fighting  away,  against  the  dark,  against  the  light.  All  at  once,  the  adopted  child  is  shoved  into  black,  wet,  breaking  window  glass-is  this  in  a  dream?  My  eye  is  gone,  my  eye  is  put  out,  my  face  is  bleeding,  the  facial  nerves  are  cut:  and  my  vision  will  be  uncertain  all  my  life  now.  WATCH  OUT.  She  doesn't  want  to  be  sacrificed  for  my  sake.  She  did  not  push  me  through  the  window  on  this  occasion.  (She  did  on  another  occasion,  and  I  was  cut  on  my  chin  and  forehead  and  eyelid,  and  my  vision  was  tamperedwith  by  the  wound  and  by  the  nervous  fear  that  affected  the  muscles  of  my  eyes  after  that.)  Today,  she  shoved  me  toward  the  window  and  then  grabbed  me  back  before  I  plowed  into  the  windowsill.  She  doesn't  want  an  unheppy  life-  she's  normal.  The  child,  the  boy,  is  a  locus  of  powers  she  hasn't  recognized  yet.  Maybe  I'm  more  resigned  about  things  in  my  life  than  I  would  have  been  if  it  hadn't  been  for  watching  her  and  thinking  her  bad  and  wasteful,  but  still  I  went  on  living  with  her  and  loving  her  at  times.  I  liked  her  heat,  the  suggestion  of  excitement  and  of  shelter  for  me  in  it,  and  the  strength  of  it.  Of  course,  no  protection  exists  for  me  in  her  except  as  it  suits  her.  A  number  of  my  definitions  of  things  start  with  her,  here,  in  her  room.  I  am  not  agod.  I  am,  for  her,  supremely  not-God,  a  brother.  Nonie  is  the  nearest  child-  hood,  the  most  accessible  portion  of  the  world  to  me.  We  are  the  most  explicable  beings  for  each  other,  the  most  handily  available  for  inspection,  for  some  experiments,  sources  ofa  lot  of  further  information  close  by  when  obscure  points  are  bothersome  and  if  we  are  singly  too  narrow  to  have  a  view  of  some  mystery  or  other.  In  her  voice  and  body  she  keeps  up  her  manner  of  defiance,  of  courage-  the  claim  of  her  herohood  in  what  she  does  is  her  true  vocation.  &quot;YOU'RE  DISGUSTING  AND  PM  -to  Daddy.  &quot;YOU'RE  NO  GOOD.  I  DON'T  LOVE  YOU.&quot;  Her  affection  is  incurably  strange  to  me.  It  smells  of  disorder.  Her  skin  is  hot,  her  breath  is  peppery  and  foul.  LISTEN  TO  ME.  YOU  DON'T  LISTEN.  PM  A  GOOD  PERSON-*&quot;  I  listen;  I  hear  her;  I  want  to  know  what  she's  saying-she  is  familiar  and  lunatic  and  bad-look  at  her  mouth,  look  at  her  eyes-no,  don't.  No  one  studies  Nonie  except  me.  I'm  the  best  " b"student  of  what  Nonie  is  at  this  one  moment.  Nonie  is  struggling  to  walk  carry-  ing  me  in  front  of  her-she  is  choking  me.  Ha-ha.  It  is  a  farce.  I  am  partly  unconscious;  I'm  unhurtable;  I'm  a  dear  child;  I'm  an  innocent-I'm  the  elaborate  semi-existence  of  something  remarkable  in  her  eyes.  If  she  can  hurt  someone  unhurtable,  adear  child,  but  innocently,  then  that's  evidence  that  she  is  not  hellish  butpotent  and  mis-  understood-this  is  a  dear  ambition  of  hers.  Then  she  can  confront  the  light-  ning,  and  be  innocent  and  wronged.  I  am  nearly  unconscious  in  her  arms.  She's  scared  of  the  lightning,  butshe  has  a  dulled-and  pretty-  child  in  her  arms  whom  she  has  not  meanly  hurt;  it  is  a  maternal  posture  but  boy-  ish,  maybe  strange,  that  she  has.  This  moment  is  giving  her  strength;  it  is  a  pattern  from  which  strength  is  derived;  she  has  an  animal  obstinacy.  It's  all  right  if  I  love  her.  Isn't  it?  This  is  worth  it,  that  we  do  this,  that  I  have  to  live  having  been  through  this  with  her?  Isn't  it?  The  ecstatic  fear  and  dauntlessness  in  her  shout,  &quot;MAKE  IT  GO  AWAY,  YOU  BAS-  TARDS.  MAKE  IT  GO  AWAY.  WILEY'S  q\xe2\x80\x98\\  '[  NOT  MAD  AT  ME.  PM  NOT  DOING  ANYTHING  TO  HIM.&quot;  Nonie's  voice:  I  never  understood  the  utter  sincerity  of  will  and  rigor  of  her  voice  and  the  falseness  and  obviousness  of  her  tone,  the  way  she  lied-the  limited  sagacity.  What  a  bold  thing  it  is  to  shrink  and  then  harden  one's  entire  self  and  never  be  able  to  have  the  rest  of  one's  h  |  self,  or  one's  other  self,  for  the  entire  period  of  one's  life  on  earth.  She  did  that,  and  if  I  stop  loving  her  I'll  be  doing  it.  If  I  can't  love  her  at  all,  if  I  can't  figure  a  way  to  do  it,  to  risk  loving  her,  I'll  become  at  least  a  sort  of  bastard.  I  mean,  we  know  I  have  to  forgive  her-don't  we?  Even  if  she  is  monstrous.  Anyway,  I  can't  tell  if  she  is  monstrous-right?  I  am  a  corrupt  and  inadequate  judge-  isn't  that  so?  If  she  is  ordinary  and  like  everyone  else,  it  will  be  terrible  for  me  not  to  love  her-bad  consequences  will  fol-  low  me  all  my  life.  Maybe.  If  I  had  been  angry,  her  rage  would  have  been  cold  and  settled  against  me  for  accusing  her  at  such  a  time  as  this.  My  life  would  have  been  easier  if  she  hadn't  admired  and  liked  the  child  in  between  the  times  of  hating  what  he'd       E???     MARCH  5,  1984  done  to  her  life,  what  his  existence  had  done  to  her  life.  I  mean  her  reaction  to  his  traits  and  moods  and  deeds  was  natural  and  particular  to  her,  not  typi-  cal,  but  hers,  but  that's  O.K.  She  loved  him,  pursued  him  from  time  to  time-  the  smaller  child  is  fascinating  and  strange  and  peripheral  to  Nonie-and  he  arouses  jealousy  and  other  feelings  on  an  uncomfortable  scale-sometimes  a  gigantic  scale:  she  is  shrieking  inside  with  temporary  hope.  ...  Now  we  are  in  Nonie's  closet,  with  the  door  closed.  Daddy  is  outside  the  door,  in  the  room  with  the  rain  noises.  Is  she  going  to  hurt  me  a  lot  now?  We  are  closed  off  in  here.  It  smells  of  clothes,  of  Nonie  here.  She  bites  me  shakingly  on  the  side  of  my  AJL  face-she  quiets  her  mouth  that  way,  maybe.  She  drags  her  teeth  over  my  temple,  my  ear.  I  quiver.  I  feel  her  hot  breath,  I  am  suffo-  cated  against  her  quivering  neck.  I  lean  against  the  vibrating  tissues  and  bones  of  that  girl's  shoulders  and  chest-she's  squatting  in  the  close,  dark  air  in  here.  In  the  uproar  of  hu-  man  heat  and  childish  temperament  and  evil  and  fear  we  were  in,  I  kissed  the  wet  pulp  of  the  chewed  corners  of  Nonie's  mouth.  Outside  the  closet,  Daddy  said,  &quot;Nonie,  do  you  feel  any  better  in  there?  I  think  the  storm  is  getting  lighter.  Are  you  any  better  yet?&quot;  He  can't  see  us  in  here,  in  the  dark.  He  says,  &quot;See,  Wiley's  not  afraid  of  lightning.&quot;  He  says  it  in  that  funny,  less  intense  way  of  someone  talking  through  a  door;  he  claims  to  see  in  a  way:  he's  worried.  Has  she  observed  that  her  fear  is  not  universal?  He  is  less  interested  and  more  defeated  in  speech  under  these  circumstances,  when  he  can't  see  our  faces.  It's  as  if  only  the  side  of  his  voice,  the  part  that's  like  a  beam  of  wood,  falls  inside  where  we  are;  his  voice  is  sawed  and  shortened,  is  deprived  of  the  authority  it  has  when  it  is  attached  to  his  face:  he  likes  his  own  face;  he  likes  his  own  voice  less.  &quot;Wiley  knows  no  one  here  is  a  bad  person,  he  knows  no  one's  going  to  be  hit  by  the  lightning  today,&quot;  he  said  with  the  disinterest  and  obliquity  of  being  on  the  other  side  of  the  door.  Nonie  pants.  She  hates  him  for  say-  ing  I  was  a  good  judge-she  shouts  at  him:  &quot;YOU'RE  DISGUSTING.  YOU  SPY  ON  ME  WHEN  I  UNDRESS.&quot;  (Momma  used  to  ask  me,  Why  do  you  hate  Nonie  so  much?)     " b"Nonie's  indignation  is  crumpled  in  here  but  large  and  dark  anyway.  We  have  no  light  here.  Daddy  did  sometimes  wander  down  the  hall  in  his  pajamas  to  get  a  look  at  Nonie.  He  would  do  that  when  he  was  undressed  and  warm-fleshed-in  his  pants,  say,  and  no  shirt,  or  in  shorts  or  naked  or  in  pajamas  or  a  robe.  Daddy  didn't  think  about  things  like  this-he  sort  of  lived  them,  offering  his  body  for  contemplation,  for  regard,  and  his  feelings  as  well:  The  Father's  Body,  a  grown  man's,  The  Father's  Feelings,  a  grown  man's.  Momma  said  he  had  the  gift  of  not  thinking-she  meant  the  gift  of  conviction  that  he  was  moral  in  what  he  did,  at  least  accord-  ing  to  his  own  lights,  on  the  ground  that  he  was  a  real  man  and  could  rely  on  his  reactions,  on  his  innate  decency  -all  his  innate  decencies-and  that  what  was  moral  was  obvious  and  he  could  be  expected  just  regularly  and  automatically  to  do  it.  Nonie  burned  to  death;  I  said  that,  didn't  I?  A  portable  heater  shorted  out  -this  is  what  I  was  told.  And  she  was  drunk.  Her  fear  of  being  burnedby  light-  ning  was  prescient,  I  guess.  She  said  often,  at  various  ages  of  her  life,  that  she  was  going  to  be  a  rich  woman.  But  she  never  did  become  rich.  She  owned  some  buildings  at  one  time;  she  ruled  over  her  tenants  probably  in  a  foul  way  -I  can't  believe  she  ever  stopped  as-  saulting  people's  lives.  I  don't  know  what  moral  authority  she  ever  gained  in  her  community,  but  my  guess  is  none.  I  used  to  hope  something  favor-  able  would  happen  to  her  that  would  verify  our  childhood-mine  with  her,  I  mean:  that  she  would  become  rich  and  foul-rich  even  if  foul-or  moral  and  fine:  then  all  the  meanings  would  be  different.  All.  One  wouldn't  have  to  look  back  and  cringe.  Wishing  aside,  if  Nonie  had  opened  her  mind  and  become  brave  on  a  larger  scale  and  become  rich  or  moral,  it  would  still  have  been  dangerous  for  me  to  know  her  unless  some  great  miracle  occurred  in  her  of  gemerosity  -over  and  beyond  the  moral,  I  mean.  And  I  can't  imagine  that-I  can't  imagine  her  making  room  for  me  gen-  erously.  But  maybe  one  of  Nonie's  sons-she  had  five-will  accomplish  something  extraordinary,  world-shak-  ing,  or  big-time:  and  be  admirable-  wouldn't  that  be  good?  And  he  might  like  me.  I'd  be  surprised,  though;  I'd  think  better  of  Nonie.  I'd  blame  myself  for  not  having  had  the  sense  to  love  her,  anyway.  For  not  having  taken  the " b"world  as  it  was  and  being  warm,  any-  way.  She's  dead.  I'm  glad.  Her  sons,  I'm  told,  are  litigious  and  rigid,  com-  petitive,  black-mooded,  difficult,  detes-  table-not  successful  or  religious.  &quot;'They  are  to  be  avoided,&quot;  I  was  told.  &quot;It's  sad  how  regrettable  they  are.&quot;  &quot;They're  mean  the  way  she  was-  they're  not  good  people.&quot;  I  suppose  I  ought  to  go  West  and  see  them  for  myself  but  I  don't  want  to  know  if  they  are  not  fine-nerved  and  obstinate  and  bringing  up  fine  children-I  don't  want  to  know.  I  don't  want  to  face  any  more  than  I  have  to.  For  the  moment,  I  am  with  Nonie  in  the  closet,  and  she  is  a  young  girl  with  some  sort  of  halfway  promising  future  and  I'm  a  little  kid  and  in  her  com-  pany,  within  range  of  her  prowess.  We're  all  trash  but  in  different  ways.  In  the  dark,  in  the  closet,  among  Nonie's  clothes-they  rustle  and  rub  me,  and  she's  in  pain,  and  her  clothes  smell-the  child  wriggles  in  Nonie's  grasp;  Nonie  is  silent  except  for  pro-  tracted  mutterings  and  whimperings  and  threats  toward  the  grownups  and  the  storm-and  me,  too,  but  vaguely  -and  at  the  center  of  her  melee  she's  strangely  still.  She  does  things  to  me.  Then  she  starts  to  push  my  hand  into  my  own  stomach  while  she  tightens  her  arm  on  my  throat.  Annemarie  and  Daddy  are  on  the  other  side  of  the  door.  Annemarie  calls  out  at  the  sound  the  choked  child  makes.  Nonie  screams,  too.  She  screams,  &quot;LET  HIM  HELP  ME!&quot;  &quot;Es  ist  nicht  gut.&quot;  She  always  loved  you,  Wiley;  it's  just  that  it  was  Nonie-she  was  a  handful  and  you  weren't  so  easy,  ei-  ther.  &quot;No!&quot;  Annemarie  says  to  Nonie's  plea.  Annemarie  is  out  in  the  bedroom,  in  the  big  cube  of  air  where  the  rain  sounds  are,  and  the  rainlight.  Her  voice  is  large  and  has  a  room  shape  but  at  a  distance.  When  it  enters  my  ears,  it  is  partly  muffled  and  partly  wrin-  kled,  like  the  sleeve  of  Nonie's  middy  coat  lying  against  my  forehead.  A  line  of  light  becomes  a  thickpole  of  light  growing  to  be  a  torso  of  light  and  then  a  doorway.  Of  gray  light.  I  see  Nonie's  bedroom  and  Daddy  and  Annemarie.  Annemarie  has  wrenched  the  door  open;  our  shelter-Nonie's,  mine,  I  guess-and  our  darkness  are  gone.  Nonie's  fingers  are  in  my  mouth,  as  if  I  might  cry  out  otherwise.  She  has  partly  undressed  me.  Her  fingers  are  digging  into  my  waist.  I  can't  breathe  because  of  Nonie's  hand  and  fingers  on  my  mouth  and  nose.  Anne-  marie  says-as  she  hauls  us  out-  &quot;Let  go  of  him,  look  at  his  lips.&quot;  The  purpling  lips.  Maybe  we're  justa  trashy  family.  &quot;THE  LIGHTNING  SHOULDN'T  GET  ME.  PM  GOOD.&quot;  &quot;You!?  La-la-la-don't  make  me  laugh.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  my  God,&quot;  Daddy  said,  &quot;this  is  no  time  to  be  hard  on  her.&quot;  Still  set  on  my  earlier  purposes,  ob-  stinate  and  unlearned  child,  I  reach,  I  grasp,  I  lean  out  from  Annemarie's  grasp,  and  I  grasp  Nonie-1I  hug  Nonie's  heed.  She's  surprised;  she  stiffens;  I  hug  the  rumpled  hair  and  the  hard  bone  inside  the  rumpled  hair.  Nonie  began  to  hug  me  back.  She  hugs  my  torso,  my  ribs,  sliding  her  pink  arms  around  me  and  avoiding  Annemarie's  fat,  yellowy-skinned  arms.  Nonie  hugs  the  small  body,  the  small-ribbed  child's  body.  Nonie  in  her  physical  proficiency,  her  marred  grace-her  hugs  can  be  vile;  this  one  is,  but  it  is  also  startlingly  adept,  knowing,  athletically  tender,  smooth.  She  pokes  me  hurtingly  with  one  fin-  ger,  for  fear  she  is  making  a  mistake-  it  was  like  a  curl  of  irony,  a  small,  localized  physical  brutality,  a  curl  of  affection  in  her  language,  and  a  matter  of  safety  first.  And  it  was  a  piece  of  brutality  of  spirit  to  mix  with  so  expert  and  wonderful  a  hug.Nonie.  And  she  smelled  of  the  closet  and  of  stale  sweat  and  pee,  and  she  was  scattered  in  her  wits,  and  she  was  alert,  blinkingly;  her  mind  is  on  a  number  of  things:  this  is  Nonie's  hug.  My  childhood  had  a  lot  of  tricky  things  in  it.  What-I-am  amazes  me.  Daddy  said,  &quot;Annemarie,  you  think  well  of  yourself  but  look  at  that-look  at  those  two-I  ask  you  seriously;  open  your  eyes  and  admit  you  were  wrong  and  I'll  sayyou're  a  big  person.  Here  is  something  worth  remembering  right  in  front  of  your  very  eyes.&quot;  He  is  ironic  in  style,  but  he's  mostly  serious-no,  not  serious,  truly  dismis-  sive,  truly  uninterested,  truly  confused  morally-he  doesn't  care  at  the  mo-  ment  what  the  truth  is-he's  relieved.  Well,  why  not?  Nonie's  his  own  fAesh-and-blood.  She's  one  of  us.  We  have  our  styles  of  morbid  aggression,  of  death-deal-  ing.  We  all  have  them.  Nonie  spits  at  Annemarie.  &quot;LEAVE  ME  ALONE.&quot;  Annemarie  was  trying  to  lever  her  off     " b"me.  But  it's  clear  Nonie's  not  hurting  me,  and  when  Daddy  says-more  sharp-  ly-&quot;Leave  the  kids  alone,&quot;  Anne-  marie  releases  me  to  Nonie's  grasp.  The  monstrous  girl,  Evil  or  not,  problematically  Evil  or  not,  is  of  course,  of  a  certainty,  innocent  to  some  extent.  The  questions  are:  What  harm  will  shedo?  How  far  will  she  go?  Is  her  judgment  all  right?  What  will  happen  to  me  with  her  today?  What  will  save  her  today?  What  is  the  right  thing  to  do  now?  These  are  some  of  the  ques-  tions.  The  summer  rain  tumbles  weightily  outside.  She  holds  me  backward;  my  back  is  to  her.  She  lugs  me-out  of  Annemarie's  reach.  I'm  a  bulky  weight  for  Nonie,  although  she's  strong.  My  legs  are  like  pillows  filled  with  dirt,  that  heavy  for  her;  my  rear  end  is  asack  of  weight;  my  neck,  the  back  of  my  head  bounce  and  slide  against  the  girl's  pudgy  chest,  the  ribs,  the  ligaments  and  little  muscles,  childy  smooth,  bulgy  with  the  little  pockets  and  outpushes  of  the  fat  of  her  girlishness.  It  is  almostshape-  less  what  the  back  of  my  head  bangs  against.  Her  elbows  pound  me-a  by-  product  of  motion  and  whatever.  She  has  physical  acumen  and  can  spare  me  some  of  this  discomfort  if  she  wants  no:  she's  too  upset,  maybe.  Isee  her  in  the  mirror  on  the  closet  door,  the  dis-  torted  and  almost  terrifying  lynx  mask  of  glare  formed  by  the  light  on  the  bones  of  the  upper  part  of  her  face-  it's  visible  in  the  gray  rainlight,  in  the  flickering  shadows  of  raindrops.  She  shouts,  &quot;TM  ALL  RIGHT.&quot;  She  puts  me  on  the  carpet-stand-  ing.  I  turn-at  once-and  reach  up,  to  embrace  her.  I  want  her  to  be  O.K.  I  want  her  to  be  reliably  present.  I  want  her  to  love  me.  I  can  smell  her  damp  neck  in  the  rainy  air.  Her  face  is  near  mine  but  is  higher.  I  see  Nonie's  chin,  I  see  Nonie's  terror-wet  and  pressed-together  and  chewed  lips,  her  eyes,  the  lopsided  lynx  mask-I'm  not  much  bruised.  The  casual  standards  of  harm  in  early  childhood  (unless  you  have  some  sensitive,  thin  standard-  usually  a  lie)  mean  that  some  stuff  about  being  hurt  is  up  in  the  air.  At  the  moment,  Nonie's  ability  to  hurt,  and  her  attractions,  and  her  character  are  an  abstract  matter  of  other  occa-  sions,  of  a  multitude  of  occasions,  mo-  ments  of  our  being  in  the  house  with  each  other  again  and  again  over  a  period  of  years-childhood  years:  an  abstract  matter  of  physical  change  and " b"the  causes  of  quarrels,  spread  over  weeks  and  then  years,  of  the  various  bodies  and  shapes  and  sizes  we  had,  while  what  is  present  now  is  her  sim-  ple  nearness  as  she  becomes  less  caught  in  terror.  The  reality  of  her  proximity  at  the  moment  is  a  sponge  cleaning  away  heat  and  dismay-disorder,  too.  I  am  involved  in  the  emotional  reality,  to  me,  of  her  life  moment  to  moment.  Nonie's  being  evil  is  not  always  im-  portant  to  me-that's  all.  Annemarie  thinks  Nonie  is  pretty  foul.  Momma  gets  depressed  at  what  parts  of  Nonie  are-parts  of  her  character;  what  things  add  up  to  bothers  them  more  than  it  does  me  so  far.  Dad-  dy  doesn't  face  any  of  it  except  when  he  walks  out  on  Momma  or  withdraws  from  Nonie-she  gets  on  his  nerves,  drives  him  crazy.  He  avoids  thinking  about  even  that:  he's  very,  very,  very  fond  of  her-in  his  way.  Annemarie,  more  as  part  of  her  politics  than  her  piety,  has  a  sense  of  Evil.  Daddy  denies  that  Evil  exists,  he  denies  it  politely  for  the  sake  of  women  (and  children)  even  while  feeling  superior  because  of  his  knowledge  of  it,  because  of  his  superior  knowledge  and  experience  of  it  (Lila  hates  him  for  that)-and  he  tries  not-to-give-houseroom  to  his  real  feelings  or  thoughts  or  memories  of  that  stuff  but  to  take  shelter  in  women,  his  forbearance  for  them.  Lila's  sense  of  evil  is  really  dark,  but  it  is  change-  able-sometimes  amused,  relentless,  and  female.  She's  not  serious  about  fighting  it-she  says  she  will  lie  down  with  it  and  approve  of  itif  it  is  good  to  her  and  her  children.  Much  of  the  time  when  I  was  young,  a  lot  of  that  stuff  didn't  matter  to  me.  Nonie's  life,  her  actual  life  (and  not  my  view  of  it)-well;  a  lot  in  me  depends  for  me  on  how  seductive  her  life  was  and  she  was.  She  is  a  serious  person  in  her  way-middle-class,  with  brown  hair.  She  can  be  described  like  that.  If  Nonie  frightens  or  saddens  me  enough,  what  will  become  of  me?  If  she  feels  the  possibility  of  such  a  vic-  tory,  of  some  ease,  of  the  murder  of  possibility  in  me,  will  she  back  off?  Console  me?  She  consoles  no  one.  She's  alone.  If  she  does  win  out,  then  no  matter  how  I  lie,  or  what  I  do,  my  story  will  be  secondary  to  hers,  to  Nonie's,  my  life  will  matter  less  than  her  life  does.  I  would  think  she  would  find  it  hard  to  choose  to  be  secondary  in  her  life  to  mine,  to  my  luck,  my  ill  luck.  No  matter  what  she  might  learn     MARCH  5,  1984  or  gain,  she'd  lose  a  lot  of  her  mo-  mentum.  But  maybe  for  a  while  she  should  have  tried  to  be  secondary,  any-  way.  She  chose  to  compete  all  out,  not  for  equality-how  was  that  to  be  mea-  sured,  anyway'-but  to  be  the  one  who  was  the  most  important.  Any  lawfulness  was  a  defeat  for  her:  she'd  have  to  share-and  not  punish,  and  not  win.  She  went  not  just  for  victory  but  for  the  taking  over  and  absorption  of  my  qualities,  opportunities,  virtues  -my  life-for  fear  she'd  lose  out  oth-  erwise  orbe  in  the  wrong  in  her  pride.  She  comforted  herself  by  being  a  rival  in  everything  and  appropriating  everything,  such  comfort  as  that  was,  and  she  called  thatlove  for  a  while.  It  was  love  in  her  sense.  But  after  a  while  she  simply  was  unrelentingly  out  to  distrust  me  and  to  get  what  she  could  -I  suppose  that  was  pain  and  defeat,  since  it  never  let  up.  She  was  so  afraid  of  me  and  so  bitter  that  she  would  not  agree  with  me  about  any-  thing  then.  She  would  not  even  re-  member  anything  jointly  with  me-  picnics,  Christmases,  anything.  One  time-never  mind  the  details-she  had  access  to  some  money  and  I  was  ill  (I  was  maybe  eight  years  old)  and  she  said,  &quot;Let  him  die.&quot;  I'd  said  things  like  that  about  her,  but  not  when  she  was  ill.  I  mean,  I  didn't  take  harming  her  into  my  own  hands.  She  said  it  again  when  I  was  older  and  had  been  in  a  car  crash:  &quot;I  can't  help  him-let  him  die.&quot;  She  hated  me.  One  time,  Lila  and  [REDACTED]  were  broke;  I  wanted  to  go  away  to  prep  school,  and  they  wanted  to  borrow  some  money  from  Nonie.  Anyway,  I  was  forced  to  stay  home  and  not  go-her  money  was  earmarked  for  this  or  that  expense.  I  guess  I  was  twelve  at  that  point.  She  was  never  ashamed-but  she  &quot;talked  about&quot;  me  (so  Lila  explained  to  me;  Lila  meant  Nonie  lied  about  her  and  me)  so  that  &quot;if  the  truth  comes  out  she  won't  look  so  bad-no  one  will  believe  you.&quot;  I  don't  know.  [REDACTED]  was  ill  and  difficult  finally.  [REDACTED]'s  illness  was  heart  trouble.  And  after  a  set-to  with  Nonie,  he  had  his  third  stroke.  Nonie  said  that  she  loved  [REDACTED]  but  that  she  didn't  care  and  that  he  would  understand  that.  I  didn't  pay  a  hell  of  a  lot  of  attention,  since  I  couldn't  afford  indignation  and  I  didn't  want  to  lose  my  grip  on  things.  I  figured  shehated  Lila-and  [REDACTED]-  more  even  than  she  hated  me.  She  used  to  tell  people  she  was  help-  ing  in  my  education.  In  my  adoles-     " b"cence,  when  I  was  at  my  meanest,  I  was  sort  of  sympathetic-understand-  ing-of-her-even  in  this.  She  was  such  a  murderous  and  competitive  clunker.  A  loser.  I  didn't  think  time  would  be  good  to  her.  I  hoped  time  would  be  kind  to  her.  I  didn't  much  care.  On  occasion,  after  I  was  grown  up,  to  preserve  some  outward  fiction  or  other  (such  as  that  she  wasn't  a  disas-  ter,  as  far  as  I  was  concerned),  I'd  arrange  to  see  her  when  she  came  to  town-the  town  where  I  was.  I  have  this  sloppy  habit  of  trying  to  make  talk  to  conceal  the  realities  of  a  situation  and  not  blaming  or  loathing  some-  thing  or  someone  I  really  do  think  is  foul-her,  in  this  case,  Nonie.  I  go  leaning  into  the  situation  to  conceal  what  would  be  shown  if  I  stayed  stiff  and  antagonistic-or  merely  distant  or  bored.  The  last  time  I  saw  her,  it  bothered  me  that  (just  as  on  the  day  of  the  rainstorm)  I  became,  in  some  perverse  and  perverted  and  twisted  way,  con-  cerned  with  her  mood.  Who  the  hell  cares  what  her  mood  is?  The  thing  to  care  about  is  fending  her  off.  Such  concern  is  the  trait  of  someone  not  too  well  disciplined  by  life  or  sad-  ness,  someone  spoiled-someone  stupid,  in  a  way.  A  clown,  Daddy  called  me.  My  being  like  that  makes  Nonie  crazed.  Coldly,  hotly.  But  she's  addict-  ed  to  it:  this  is  before  she  died,  near-  ly  twenty  years  ago,  burned  to  death  -burned  to  death.  My  God,  imagine  that.  ...  She  has  asked  to  see  me;  she's  come  to  see  me.  The  onetime  colossally  pretty  girl,  the  onetime  older  child,  fat,  hard-eyed,  she  sits  in  a  chair  and  is  nervous  and  far-off  in  a  grimacing  way,  disapproving,  menacing  as  a  gen-  eral  tactic-like  an  angry  business-  man.  She  never  referred  to  me  in  my  hearing  as  her  brother  on  any  grownup  occasion.  She  has  come  to  ask  for  favors  maybe  a  dozen  of  them:  she  wants  money,  information,  to  meet  some  peo-  pleI  know  wants  to  visit,  to  stay  with  some  people  she  has  never  met  but  who  she  has  heard  are  friends  of  mine.  She  asks  for  this  and  makes  faces  as  if  I  were  mad  and  a  beggar.  It  doesn't  much  matter  to  her  who  I  am  or  what  I  am-she  hates  it  all.  And  my  physical  quality  is  more  for-  eign,  more  monstrous  to  her  than  when  we  were  young.  Lila  often  said  I  destroyed  Nonie  when  I  refused  to  &quot;love&quot;  or  protect  her,  but  it  was  Lila  who  told  the  story " b"of  the  infant  sons,  too-Lila  said  a  great  many  things  about  Nonie  over  the  years.  I  start  to  feel  around  me  the  closet  smells,  the  pressure  of  her  flesh  that  day.  I  say,  &quot;Well,  here  we  are  again;  we're  an  odd  pair.  Just  like  old  times.&quot;  She  says,  &quot;I  don't  like  to  talk  about  the  past,  I  don't  like  that  sort  of  talk,I  don't  have  to  talk  about  water  under  the  bridge  if  I  don't  want  to-I  have  no  interest  in  it,  I  don't  like  those  things;  I  don't  know  about  you,  but  I  had  a  very  happy  childhood  is  all  I  know.  I  loved  everybody,  and  every-  body  loved  me-and  that's  all  I  want  to  know.  I  don't  know  about  you.  You  had  problems.&quot;  She  burned  to  death  when  she  was  forty-two  years  old.  \xc2\xabNonie,  the  bedroom,  your  bedroom  on  Vista  Drive-that  color  was  nice:  a  really  watery-pale-green.&quot;  She  said,  &quot;That's  really  boring-  that's  too  boring  for  me.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Well,  what  do  you  suggest  we  talk  about?&quot;  &quot;Tell  me,  do  you  have  any  money  or  not?&quot;  &quot;At  times,  I  do.  Right  now,  no.&quot;  It's  the  truth  in  my  voice,  in  my  manner  that  upsets  her:  the  offer  of  a  truce.  She  suddenly  said  then,  sort  of  tauntingly,  &quot;Hank  and  I  are  very  happy.  I  have  five  wonderful  sons  and  everything  I  want.&quot;  She  went  on  for  a  while  in  that  direction,  and  then  she  said,  &quot;I  have  no  interest  in  people  I  don't  know.  I  don't  know  how  people  stand  it  who  have  to  read  a  lot  of  books  and  take  themselves  seriously.&quot;  She  began  to  discuss  some  of  her  friends-how  rich  they  were,  how  much  they  liked  her,  how  awful  they  were.  &quot;She  has  just  awful  brighty-  bright  eyes-&quot;  She  said,  &quot;You  think  you're  smart,  but  we're  pretty  smart  out  West  now,  you  know.&quot;  She  lived  in  [REDACTED]  at  the  time  of  her  death.  VI  HAT  was  the  last  time  I  saw  her.  Other  people  disliked  me  then,  too.  I  can  see  her  rage-she's  not  smart  enough  to  hide  it.  And  she's  afraid  of  me.She  has  energy.  She  does  her  part  forcefully,  with  a  will.  She  denies  us  a  past,  and  she  pursues  me  anyway  with  her  malice  and  her  uneasiness  and  her  anxiety  from  the  past,  an  anxiety  to  make  use  of  me,  to  keep  the  past  going,  to  have  it  be  continuous  and  herself  not  so  foul.  She  wants  to  have  this meaning,  too,  in  her  life,  of  my  attach-  ment  to  her,  one-sidedly.  She  allows  me  little  or  no  reality-which  is  what  kills  me,  of  course.  She's  human;  she's  one  of  us;  I  remember  one  time  when  I  was  six  or  seven,  and  she  was  seven-  teen  or  eighteen,  and  she  was  being  amiable,  even  flirtatious-on  a  porch.  She  taught  me  some  tricks  on  a  yo-yo.  She  hated  me  the  worst  at  that  time,  and,  contrarily,  had  periods  of  being  nicer  than  ever.  She  laughed  at  me  and  was  sweet,  but  she  became  angry-  even  murderous-when  I  proved  dex-  terous.  She  said,  &quot;You  have  a  filthy  mean  streak.&quot;  She  threw  hot  coffee  at  me-in  my  eyes,  naturally.  &quot;Don't  make  a  big  fuss  over  him!&quot;  she  yelled  when  the  grownups  showed  up.  She  complained  to  the  grownups  stub-  bornly  on  that  occasion  that  they  ba-  bied  me.  She  did  it  as  a  pretty  girl  who  would  not  speak  reasonably  or  allow  herself  to  be  dealt  with  unless  it  was  admitted  to  as  an  assumption  around  our  house  that  I  had  a  mean  streak  in  me  that  made  me  show  off  and  made  people  want  to  kill  me  and  no  one  could  be  blamed  for  wanting  to  hurt  me-and  for  doing  it.  No  one  could  help  hurting  me  or  could  be  considered  guilty  for  doing  it.  That  was  a  clearer  occasion  than  some  when  we  were  younger-I  mean  people  saw  it  the  way  I  saw  it-but  just  the  year  before  something  like  that  happened,  and  Momma  had  been  sym-  pathetic  to  her.  If  she's  &quot;normal,&quot;  if  she's  what  people  are,  then  who-and  what-am  I  I  mention  these  later  events  because  some  truth,  some  meanings,  perhaps  the  primary  ones  except  for  those  of  the  affections  and  of  sex,  of  work  and  of  futurity,  reside  in  history;  and  I  want  to  place  this  stuf  around  the  events  in  Nonie's  bedroom.  Her  bedroom.  She  is  still  being  a  soldier.  But  nothing  and  no  one  in-  structs  Nonie  or  instructed  her  ever  in  the  victories  she  hungers  for-I  mean,  she  has  mostly  the  wrong  victories,  ones  she  didn't  want.  But  she  wants  them  anyway,  to  soothe  herself  because  she  feels  others'  victories  as  such  pain.  My  real  mother  is  not  present  to  vote  for  me  here  in  Nonie's  bedroom.  It's  grim  that  a  lot  of  people  won't  grant  you  the  moral  authority  to  defend  yourself-you're  defending  too  much  and  calling  it  yourself-aend  we  want  you  limited  now.  You  have  to  be  cold  and  obstinate  and  tricky-I  mean,  so  many  people  want  you  undone;  and  some  people  who  are  on  your  side  are  " b"really  worthless.  The  flux  of  Nonie's  temper  gives  houseroom  to  her  sorts  of  emotion;  I  mean,  toward  actualities  of  the  monstrous;  life  includes  special  areas  of  the  monstrous  aimed  at  her:  life  happens  to  her  in  her  style-not  entirely  but  a  lot.  She  perceives  it  that  way;  she  sets  it  up,  too,  sometimes  as  a  perversion  of  judgment  and  of  mood  that  just  barely  fails  to  be  comic-this  shapeless-souled  young  girl,  perhaps  misunderstood,  perhaps  destroyed,  who  has  me  in  her  keeping-I  have  em-  braced  her  and  now  she  kisses  me,  sobs  faintly.  Lightning  glows  dis-  tantly,  a  good  ten  miles  to  the  east.  In  that  glow,  enormous  reaches  of  hol-  low,  gray-blue,  rainy  sky  are  visible-  then  the  brownish,  darker  areas  of  rain  reemerge  from  the  glow,  return,  the  vista  is  removed,  and  we  are  inside  the  repetitive  and  muffling  and  domestic  and  amorous  noise  of  the  rain.  Nonie  touches  me  with  a  wan,  vaguely  athletic  coolness,  a  tenderness  poised,  not  deadened-partly  hysteri-  cal,  though;  but  it's  real,  it's  between  us,  it's  been  gained.  And  one's  appe-  tite  for  consolation  can  rest  here-or  mourn  its  inevitable  loss,  or  simply  observe  it  for  a  moment,  atthis  mo-  ment  of  its  existence,  a  truce  of  wills,  of  breath.  Comfortable,  in  a  way,  we  are  with  each  other,  hands  and  bodies  childishly  in  touch-she  has  a  lasting  tact  about  some  of  the  pragmatic  realities  of  childhood.  But  that  tact  turns  outward  and  is  clearly  part  of  a  case  of  Nonie's  being  thecenter  of  decency  in  her  system,  the  central  repository  of  civilization:  she  is  a  young  girl  suffering  now,  stretched  taut  over  certain  inadequa-  cies;  she  has  for  a  moment  a  quality  of  sweetness,  nerve-ridden  but  luminous  -she's  comfortable,  to  a  degree,  to  be  with  me.  She's  too  restless,  too  guilt-  ridden,  too  naked  to  persist  in  it.  A  faint  light  in  the  mirror-a  smallish  after-flicker  of  nearby  lightning,  that's  all-cheats  her  of  her  escape.  At  once,  Nonie  flings  herself,  holding  me,  to  the  floor;  the  rubbery  weight  of  her  body  and  its  thrashing;  her  gasping  and  twitching  are  crows'  wings;  her  breath's  cawing  is  all  over  me,  all  around  me-I'm  in  the  darkness  under  her  body,  in  the  gasps  and  thrashings,  in  the  shadow  of  all  that  she  was;  I  get  banged  around  by  that.  Completely  used,  completely  ig-  nored,  I'm  there-it  means  too  much  that  I'm  there-I'll  just  put  myself  there  and  forget  meaning.  Where  I  am,  under  her  body,  ifs  like  the  endof " b"               the  world,  as  Daddy  said-rhetori-  cally.  Nonie's  grunting  and  twisting.  Nonie  rolls  back  and  forth.  [REDACTED]:;  &quot;Oh,  Christ,  why  doesn't  it  \xc2\xa7  stop?  IPs  killing  me.&quot;  (Lila:  &quot;She  doesn't  like  to  stop.  You  have  to  stop  her.  Be  a  realist.  IT'S  THAT  SIMPLE.)  No,  it's  not.  &quot;DADDY,  THE  THUNDER  IS  TERRI-  BLE.  YOU  BASTARD.  OH,  YOU  BAS-  TARD.&quot;  It  was  a  small  thunder.  She's  less  scared  and  less  sweaty  now.  On  the  floor,  under  her  body,  where  I  am,  it's  warm  and  roiling  and  breath-torn  and  dark  and  smelly.  Daddy  stoops  and  puts  his  arm  around  us-her  and  me;  and  he  scoops  us  up  to  an  angle;  we're  still  mostly  on  the  floor.  &quot;Nonie,  that's  not  bad  thun-  der-now,  come  on.  That's  not  real  close,  hon.  Come  on.&quot;  She's  gagging  more  than  she's  cry-  ing  in  the  rubbery  bleakness  of  this  almost-an-afterward.  A  gray-green  light  is  at  the  win-  dows  and  is  in  the  room,  watery  and  flickering.  Nonie's  sweaty  neck  is  a  river  of  light;  the  light  pulses  on  her  concise  neck-an  illuminated  rhythm  unexplained  as  beauty  but  still  beau-  ty  whether  it  is  explained  or  not-  this  symptom  of  her  life.  It  glows  and  grows  steadier  in  speed  and  assur-  ance  but  is  not  very  steady  for  all  that  -the  pulse,  her  life.  The  sputter  and  jerk  of  her  skin  continue;  her  pulse  is  scared:  it  isn't  exactly  calm:  I  hear  it,  I  see  it,  I'm  close  to  her.  The  thunder  shakes  the  floor  a  little.  Inside  the  warm  interlacings  and  smells,  I  feel  Nonie  shake.  Nonie  is  shaking  a  lot.  I  cover  her  with  myself.  Her  face.  l  My  belly's  bent  over  her.  Her  face.  I  do  and  don't  care  what  it  means.  Besides  the  other  things  I  do  is  this:  I  embrace  her  will  and  shame,  her  being  Evil.  Maybe  only  in  a  family  sense  but  I  doubt  it.  Nonie  was  right  to  think  that  light-  ning  lay  in  wait  for  her  and  she  was  right  to  think  I  did  not  ever  have  her  interests  at  heart.  For  instance,  I  think  that  to  the  best  of  my  knowledge-maybe  this  is  just  stupidity-I  would  prefer  to  have  had  Nonie  go  crazy  on  this  occasion,  for  good,  and  for  her  to  say  crazed  things,  and  to  become  mistaken  in  the  names  of  things,  and  then  todie  young  and     MARCH  5,  1984  nice  and  pitiable  than  for  her  to  live  the  way  she  did.  I  wish  she'd  died  and  been  satisfactorily  dead  for  most  of  my  life.  I  wish  I'd  been  as  clever  as  she  was,  and  that  while  I  hugged  her  I'd  hurt  her  mortally-what  I'm  getting  at  is,  I'm  not  much  glad  that  the  gesture  stands,  my  hugging  her-my  accom-  modation,  my  fearless  embrace  and  sympathy  and  affection  with  Evil,  my  shy  hatred,  my  being  conned  into  and  out  of  equality,  superiority,  inferiority,  favors,  reparations,  all  of  it-all  that.  I'm  not  glad.  But  it  stands.  I  stand  behind  the  act.  Jesus,  I  did  love  her  at  times-I  loved  that  mess  of  putrefaction.  The  fire  that  killed  her-in  Cali-  fornia,  in  her  bedroom-it  wound  up  burning  through  a  wall,  it  set  the  lawn  on  fire,  then  shrubs;  the  trees  were  blazing  on  the  lawn  as  in  a  disaster  or  a  war.  A  cousin  called  to  tell  me.  &quot;Nonie's  dead,&quot;  said  the  long-distance  voice;  then,  in  a  whisper,  &quot;Goody-goody.&quot;  In  Nonie's  room,  in  the  increasing  light-the  rain  is  letting  up-in  Daddy's  funny  grip,  I  hold  her  in  my  short,  bony,  childish  arms  in  a  kind  of  ecstatic  sternness  of  possession.  Me,  not  the  demons,  I'm  the  most  powerful  one.  My  sweetness  rules  here-one  way  and  another.  And  I'm  scared-  I'm  not  an  invincible  conqueror.  I  kiss  her.  She  kisses  my  hair-in  a  slow,  webbed,  maybe  drying-her-terror  way.  An  intelligence  in  each  of  us  about  the  other  and  about  such  an  embrace  as  this  strips  and  informs  us,  it  is  a  childish  knowledge,  vulner-  ability.  We  weren't  clumsy  with  each  other  always.  We  were  clumsy  and  sometimes  skillful  in  order  to  hurt  each  other  in  certain  ways.  We  were  maybe  clumsy  at  life  itself,  but  we  did  all  right  with  each  other  as  enemies  and  during  truces,  in  some  embraces  especially-but  in  some  rivalries,  too-we  had  real  skills  about  each  other.  I  embraced  demon-  filth  Nonie.  She  had  her  arms  around  killer-trash  Wiley.  We  are  insiders.  The  enmity,  the  hate,  is  real.  It  is  very  real.  We  twine  arms  and  legs  and  mnecks-these  childish  hugs  of  dif-  fering  creatures,  the  sense  of  two  lives  being  present,  I  remember  the  consid-  erable  excellence  of  the  mutuality  de-  spite  such  disparities  in  size  and  mind  and  state  of  mind  and  in  our  passions  and  degrees  of  violence  as  were  there.  We  know  this  about  each  other  atthis  " b"moment  of  the  child's  peculiar  victory  -half  victory-we  know  this,  foo.  We  huddle  and  combine,  atthis  mo-  ment,  lives  and  heat  in  a  knot,  in  a  sickening  real  marriage.  For  a  while.  Her  arm  snakes  and  tightens  on  the  small  of  my  back.  For  a  lifetime,  for  eternity.  Her  chin  presses  into  my  shoulder.  Her  breath  moves  on  my  skinny  back.  What  moral  authority  have  I  gained  in  the  world?  I'm  her  brother.  What  can  I  claim  for  myself  after  I  admit  the  depth  of  our  attach-  ment  in  this  embrace?  I  will  be  bereft  of  ordinary  lying  maybe.  Nonie  is  part  of  me  now.  I  cry  for  myself  because  of  her.  I  tell  you,  Wiley,  anyone  human  would  have  felt  sorry  for  her,  because  of  you-ah,  Lila  said  that,  too.  Its  true:  you  hurt  her.  You  judged  her.  Early  in  my  life,  I  knew  I  didn't  want  Nonie  near  me  anymore.  At  all.  I  wanted  her  quiet,  expelled,  expunged  -I  wanted  her  sent  away.  It  hap-  pened  very  soon  that  I  treated  her  as  if  it  were  undeniable  that  she  was  awful  -a  practitioner  of  lies,  cruelty,  will,  and  evil.  And  nothing  would  shake  me.  I  could  be  secret  about  it  but  I  could  not  stop  thinking  it.  She's  no  good.  Lila,  [REDACTED],  when  in  battle  with  me,  wanting  to  teach  me  a  lesson,  often  would  impose  her  on  me  just  for  that  reason.  God  damn  it,  why  does  she  disgust  you  so  much?  She's  no  worse  than  a  lot  of  people.  You  have  to  live  with  her.  She  loves  you.  You  have  to  learn  to  live  in  the  real  world.  They  did  this  to  me  if  I  was  bad-  they  said,  confusedly,  that  it  was  a  punishment,  a  lesson.  It  was  a  lesson  to  know  her.  I  learned  it.  I  know  her  as  their  weapon,  one  gone  wrong,  their  crooked  experiment  and  crusade,  the  agent  of  their  disappointments  in  the  world,  this  enraged  child,  this  pink-legged  girl.  She  was  their  weapon-not  just  against  me  but  against  everyone.  ...  We're  not  such  good  people,  Daddy  used  to  say,  we're  not  such  bad  people.  For  a  while,  I  explained  my  accepting  her  this  way:  if  you  live  with  people,  among  people,  you  have  to  permit  certain  weapons  to  be  used  against  you-you  leave  them  some  weapons  if  you're  not  a  tyrant  and  a  fool:  this  is  a  form  of  civiliza-  tion,  maybe.  Eventually  she  was  sent  from  the  house,  when  my  parents  could  no  longer  grasp  such  a  weapon.  By  then,  I  would  have  been  more  pleased  to  be  the  one  to  go.  [REDACTED]  and  Lila  made  the  choice  to  send  Nonie  away  on  the  basis  of  their  feelings  and  to  protect  me  at  the  end  from  her  non-  stop  rage-and  her  from  my  powers  to" b"protect  myself:  Lila  said,It  serves  him  right-he's  stuck  with  us.  A  joke.  Of  a  sort.  An  apology.  A  kind  of  bad  luck.  I  want  to  say  I  didn't  understand  it,  but  I  do  understand  it  in  a  way-  Nonie's  jealous  rivalries  with  everyone  were  part  of  her  hopes  for  herself.  But  her  hopes  led  to  too  much  real  harm,  and  this  is  terrible,  not  because  it  can-  not  be  understood  but  because  it  can-  not  be  borne  without  conscious  (or  unconscious)  cruelty  in  some  direction  or  other.  And  while  displaying  pity  improves  the  level  of  civilization,  it  goads  her  and  worsens  the  real  mo-  ments  unless  the  pity  is  accompanied  by  real  risk  and  real  sacrifice,  which  I  am  unable  to  make.  I  was  oversensitive,  me,  Wiley,  so  Lila  said,  and  then  she  said  no,  I  wasn't.  But  she  said  I  was  spoiled  and  naive,  since  an  ordinariness  in  life  in-  cludes  such  jealousies  and  crimes  as  Nonie's.Lila  said,  Love's  like  that.  She's  so  much  better  when  you're  not  around,  you  wouldn't  believe  it,  and  she  misses  you  then,  Wiley.  .  ..  I  reply  now  asI  did  then,  CHRIST,  I  DON'T  CARE.  On  her  deathbed,  Lila  said,  We  did  a  bad  thing;  we  treated  Nonie  as  if  she  was  O.K.  I'm  sorry  you  had  to  go  through  with  her  what  you  did.  I  apologize  to  you  for  it.  ...  At  first,  I  was  on  my  guard,  but  she  seemed  to  like  you,  Wiley;  at  first,  she  loved  you.  ...I  remember  Daddy  shouting,  Why  can't  you  love  each  other?  I  want  a  home  with  some  love  in  it,  God  damn  it.  Lila  said,  Sometimes  SL..  seemed  to  know,  but  then  he'd  forget  -he  was  a  fool  in  many  ways,  but  you  should  forgive  him;  he  wasn't  the  type  to  bea  policeman  all  day  long.  He  saw  her  being  affectionate  to  you  some-  times,  and  that  was  enough  proof  for  him  that  she  was  all  right-he  was  always  a  lazy  man  .  ..  Lila  thought  that  I  had  risen  to  the  moral  simplicities,  the  purities  and  law-abidingness,  of  my  new  life  then.  I  was  at  college,  and  she  thought  I  would  never  undergo  scenes  of  the  old  sort  anymore-at  least,  never  at  length.  She  thought  I  could  be  senti-  mental  and  aloof  toward  hatred  and  ordinariness  from  then  on.  ERE  is  a  perverted  eulogy:  Nonie's  death  has  been  a  gener-  ous  absence.  Life  is  hard  enough  with-  out  her,  without  having  to  attempt  to  live  it  near  her,  protecting  the  dread  unreason  of  her  ambitions.  When  she  was  alive,  most  of  what  I  felt  toward" b"her  operated  as  a  mathematical  model  of  sorts  which  reflected  what  she  felt  -she  evoked  her  own  reality  in  the  world,  in  me  and  others,  as  she  went  along.  I  feel  some  shame  for  loathing  her  and  abandoning  her  and  for  not  mourning  her,  but  the  only  way  I  could  ever  soothe  her  was  to  humiliate  -and  abase-myself  a  lot.  She  was  not  someone  I  wanted  to  do  that  for.  And  I'm  glad  it's  over.  Yes,  I  think  ill  of  the  dead.  My  sympathy  and  disdain  for  her  life  take  the  form  of  a  brutal  acceptance.  When  I  tried  in  any  way  to  be  good  to  her,  it  was  a  kind  of  tactic,  ironic,  as  well  as  a  hopeful,  a  fantastic  method  for  hurting  and  eras-  ing  her  at  the  same  time.  It  was  a  good  tactic,  since  any  other  response  showed  the  degree  to  which  I  was  like  her  and  lived  in  a  world  defined  by  her  conditions.  She  wanted  me  to  be  bad  and  apologetic-that  would  have  showed  her  importance.  For  me  not  to  hate  her,  or  to  love  her  so  much  I  welcomed  the  chance  to  humiliate  myself  for  her  sake,  was  for  her  to  be  valueless  in  her  own  eyes.  She  would  have  liked  a  more  common  sort  of  eulogy  for  social  reasons,  but  statements  of  rage  were  more  to  her  heart's  liking  than  statements  of  indif-  ferent  regret  or  praise  that  was  not  extreme.  If  I  may  speak  rhetorically,  if  she  and  I  were  to  meet  after  death  I  doubt  whether  Nonie  would  address  me  in  real  speech  and  real  gesture.  She  would  turn  her  back-and  that  would  be  all,  unless  I  could  do  her  a  favor.  I  am  ashamed  that  for  all  that  time  she  was  aliveI  kept  quiet  about  her.I  sheltered  her  with  silence,  with  re-  spectability,  to  the  extent  that  it  was  in  my  power  to  do  so.  I  sheltered  in  my  silence  Nonie's  will,  Nonie's  shame-  fulness.  Well,  I  don't  know  that  there's  any  solution.  To  speak  of  her  as  if  she  were  alive:  she  is  clear-eyed  and  mixed  up  and  shattered  and  direct  and  violent,  and  she's  not  someone  I  can  deal  with-  Nonie,  my  sister.  And  I  hate  it  that  I  have  ever  forgiven  her.  But  I  have  done  it  often,  and  in  a  vast  and  tor-  mented  way  I  do  it  again  now."