 b"HORSES,  goes  the  rap,  are  skit-  tish  and  unpredictable  and  dangerous,  but  one  I  knew  I  got  to  love,  although  he  was  all  those  things.  Sunny,  the  horse,  lived  with  my  sister  and  brother-in-law  on  their  [REDACTED]  farm.  A  thousand-pound  horse  of  the  [REDACTED]  Walking  breed,  Sunny  was  a  strawberry  roan,  fifteen  hands  high.  He  would  let  me  ride  him  around  the  periphery  of  Kenneth  and  Barbara's  considerable  acreage  there-  hours  of  riding,  every  day-and  I  could  safely  keep  my  mind  on  that,  and  on  Sunny.  And  I  was  grateful,  because  my  marriage  and  most  of  the  rest  of  me  had  recently  splintered.  It's  hard  work  to  ride,  and  it  was  usually  thick  hot  weather  that  sum-  mer,  yet  I  never  missed  a  day.  I'd  gear  up  in  tall  black  boots,  canvas  trousers,  a  velvet  helmet.  Wearing  these  clothes  every  day  assured  something  in  me,  they  were  such  a  treat  to  wear.  From  the  corrugated-fibre-glass  stable,  we'd  go  first  across  a  grass  meadow  that  my  brother-in-law,  Kenneth,  kept  mowed.  It  was  washboard  earth,  ridged  and  baked  hard,  and  so  I'd  let  Sunny  am-  ble.  Next,  we  would  tour  a  lane  of  shade  trees  and  then  turn  into  acare-  ful  path  that  invaded  the  woods.  Along  here  we'd  often  get  up  speed,  with  the  thud  of  hoof  and  jingle  of  bridle  and,  after  a  bit,  Sunny's  rasping  huge  breath.  Deep  in,  there  was  a  ravine.  I  liked  to  rein  up  on  its  high     side,  admiring  the  frightening  detail  of  full-blown  summer.  Weed  wands  would  bow  to  me.  Flower  spokes  would  wag,  and  tree  boughs,  hideously  muscled,  would  reach  for  me  or  shrug  indifferently.  There  were  mosses,  bright  green,  and  freckled  toadstools  layered  like  spills  of  pancakes  against  the  trunks  of  trees.  Sometimes,  over  the  gabbing  and  ticking  of  bugs,  I  would  listen  to  a  tractor's  thin  ring-  ing.  Its  noise  pulsed  every  other  sec-  ond,  saying  nothing,  which  was  best,  for  there  weren't  any  words  I  wanted  to  hear.  We'd  go  on  to  the  open  fields,  into  amazing  heat.  There  were  graded  and  scraped  paths  there,  so  Sunny's  can-  nons  were  safe.  I  could  let  him  lope.  Starting  from  points  between  my  shoulder  blades  and  breasts,  the  heat  would  hold  me  with  its  dullness  and  anger.  My  focus  would  soften.  Sunny's  scent,  I  thought,  was  a  re-  gal  one-leathery  and  old.  And  the  heat  would  draw  out  other  smells  around  us:  cucumber,  weeds,  and  dust.  I'd  dismount  to  eat  wild  scallions,  but  the  blackberry  canes  that  lined  one  pasture-like  rows  of  spectators  for  Sunny  and  me-were  so  tall  that  I  could  pick  from  them  while  still  in  the  saddle.  Once,  while  I  sat,  scrunched  in  thesaddle  eating  berries  out  of  my  juice-stained  fingers,  there  was  a  weird,  thrilling  thing.  The  miserly  breeze  gave  up.  I  saw  total  stillness,  as  in  a  freeze  frame.  It  was  as  though  the  world  had  died  but  not  quite  yet  both-  ered  to  topple.  Blades  of  grass,  bugs,  blank  sky,  even  Sunny,  were  all  cast  in  glass.  I  was  alone  in  it  and  feeling  suddenly  afloat,  as  if  I  had  bolted  a  lot  of  champagne.  IN  the  weeks  before  my  stay  at  the  farm,  I  had  been  awake  too  much.  Whenever  I  did  sleep,  what  ugly  dreams!  One  I  remember  was  of  me  roller-skating  down  cement  hill  after  hill,  no  way  to  stop.  Marcus,  my  hus-  band,  and  I  lived  in  a  three-bedroom,  all-electric  condominium  north  of  [REDACTED].  Marcus,  an  architect  with  a  pretty  good  downtown  firm,  looked  as  if  he  could  have  been  my  dad  or  even  my  grandfather,  with  his  prematurely  white  hair  and  silvery  beard.  When-  ever  we  were  in  a  place  where  someone  might  see  us  together-even  if  we  just  stepped  out  onto  our  second-floor  bal-  cony  for  a  whiff  of  the  morning-  Marcus  had  to  have  his  arm  low  on  the  back  of  my  waist,  or  his  hand  on  the  back  of  my  neck,  almost  in  choke-  hold,  announcing  to  everyone  that  I  was  in  fact  his.  To  me,  that  was  sad-  der  and  a  bigger  problem  than  his  skirt-chasing.  Evenings  on  the  farm,  Kenneth  would  grill  steaks  or  chops  outside,  and  my  sister  and  I  would  do  the  salad,  sometimes  corn.  We'd  open  wine.  We  would  cut  up  muskmelon.  After  eating,  we'd  sit  on  the  long  flagstone  patio,  with  its  view  of  yard  and  pond,  and  maybe  drink  a  Scotch.  One  night,  we  finally  talked  about  Marcus  and  me.  &quot;You're  doing  everything  wrong,&quot;  Barbara  said,  as  if  she  had  been  hold-  ing  back  for  a  long  time.  &quot;Forwhat  it's  worth,  I  agree,&quot;  Kenneth  said.  You  broke  a  window?  You  phoned  one  of  these  women?  Those  were  stu-  pid  moves,  honey,&quot;  my  sister  said.  &quot;The  surest  way  to  drive  him  off  forever,&quot;  Kenneth  said.  &quot;While  making  anybody  else  look  good,&quot;  Barbara  added.  So  I  had  all  that,  their  opinions,  to  consider,  one  afternoon  while  I  was  brushing  Sunny  down,  pushing  the  curry  brush  along  his  flanks.  Sunny  started,  kicked  back,  twisted  his  great  neck,  and  bit  me.  Kenneth  heard  my  yelp.  He  came  from  the  tack  room-  authoritative  injeans,  Dingo  boots,  a  white  shirt  with  pearl  snap  buttons-  and  scolded  me.  &quot;Tie  up  his  lead,  for     " b"heaven's  sake.  Get  his  head  up.  He  doesn't  know  enough  not  to  hurt  you.  That's  a  horse  you're  playing  with,  nota  puppy  dog.&quot;  And  he  wenton  and  said  I  might  do  well  to  learn  a  bit  more  about  barn  etiquette  before  I  slapped  on  Barbara's  equestrian  clothes  and  rode  out  &quot;like  Princess  Di  or  somebody.&quot;  A  week  or  so  before,  at  the  alumi-  num  water  trough,  I  had  surprised  Kenneth  when  he  wasn't  wearing  his  dentures.  Of  course  I  knew  Kenneth  had  been  stuck  with  a  removable  upper  plate  for  many  years  although  he  was  only  just  over  fifty.  A  truck  wreck  had  knocked  most  of  the  teeth  out  ofhis  teen-age  smile.  He  faced  me  there  at  the  trough  with  an  unusual  gentleness.  And  then  he  winked.  I  made  no  men-  tion  of  this  to  Barbara.  Kenneth  impa-  tient  or  Kenneth  embarrassed  could  lose  no  grace  by  me-he  was  tops.  He  deserved  every  minute  of  Barbara,  to  my  mind.  He  deserved  his  smart  wife  and  his  good  farm.  Self-absorbed  as  I  was,  I  had  watched  him  going  about  the  chores  of  his  farmer's  life-some  piddling,  some  awful,  duties.  He  labored  with  a  kind  of  patriotism,  as  though  finishing  things  and  doing  them  well  meant  the  health  of  his  home,  his  country.  T  the  tail  of  August  came  a  series  of  savage  thunderstorms.  The  rain  flailed  in  the  woods  and  made  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  wide.  Thunder  rolled  through  the  afternoon  skies,  and  light-  ning  whitened  the  world  in  strobe  flashes.  Riding  was  out.I  was  talk-  ing  to  Marcus  long-distance,  in  daily  sessions-five  minutes,  then  fifteen,  finally  half  an  hour-and  in  our  pauses  I  could  hear  the  crackle  of  electricity  in  the  lines.  When  I  rang  off,  I  would  go  stand  out  in  the  soupy  yard,  unsheltered,  getting  soaked  sometimes.  The  storms  ended  in  fiery,  poignant  sunsets.  In  the  blush  of  one  of  these,  with  the  frogs  and  crickets  ratcheting  away  down  by  the  pond,  Barbara  talked  to  me.  She  said,  &quot;You  know,  it's  all  work.  Marriage,  money,  property  -the  big  things.  It's  not  your  fault  you're  too  young  to  know  if  it's  worth  it-seeing  to  all  the  details.  You've  got  to-you've  got  to  insist.&quot;  She  was  riding  in  the  giant  dough-  nut  hole  of  a  tractor  tire.  The  tire  was  roped  to  a  monster  willow,  off  on  the  side  lawn.  &quot;Or  maybe  you  think  there's  a  simpler  way  to  be.  All  by  yourself.&quot;  Bar-  bara  was  turning  the  swing  in  circles,  winding  up  the  hemp.  &quot;Ihear  you  sobbing  into  the  phone.  I  know  what  Marcus  is  like.&quot;  Five  days  of  not  riding  and  I  was  feeling  flabby  and  earthbound.  In  the  mirror  in  the  mornings,  my  hair  was  very  tired,  my  sunburn  drying  away  and  peeling  off  beneath  my  eyes.  &quot;Kenneth's  cheated  on  me.  I've  done  it  to  him.  It's  terrible,&quot;  Barbara  said.  &quot;But  being  so  selfish  and  wrong  often  brings  with  it  a  sort  of  strength.  You  know?&quot;  I  knew.  That  was  the  look  I'd  seen  in  Kenneth's  face  when  I'd  seen  him  with  his  teeth  out.  He  didn't  care.  She  raised  her  anchor  foot  and  let  the  tire  spin.  I  was  dizzy  for  her.  Whatever  that  moment  was  in  the  woods,  I  wanted  it  back.  I  want-  ed  Barbara  to  stop  revolving  and  the  rain  to  end  and  the  summer  to  start  over-for  everything  to  just  hold  off  until  I  could  catch  up. "