 b"WHAT  I  want  is  a  clear  blue  sky,  fresh  sparkling  waters,  a  handsome  log  house  not  made  from  a  kit  but  put  up  for  me  by  friends.  Absent  that,  I  want  success  in  law-  suits.  I  have  a  lawyer.  When  I  go  to  see  him,  I  put  on  a  clean  shirt.  I  am  a  neat  man.  I  have  a  presentable  appear-  ance.  We  have  a  sort  of  established  rou-  tine.  He  says:  So,  I  haven't  seen  you  re-  cently.  I  say:  I've  been  away  in  the  woods.  I  have  bought  a  big  tract  of  land.  I  am  going  to  put  up  a  big  log  house.  I  am  tired  of  this  rat  race.  Then  I  tell  him  my  idea  for  a  law-  suit.  ATCHING  Johnny  on  televi-  sion,  I  thought:  Sue  Johnny.  Sue  Johnny  for  divorce.  I  don't  want  to  see  Johnny  divorce  other  people  and  not  divorce  me.  Why  should  I  be  alone  in  not  getting  what  I  want?  The  lawyer  said:  You  can  get  what  you  want.  I  said:  I  don't  want  a  shouting  match.  We  would  both  lose.  I  want  to  come  out  of  this  as  friends.  Still  (I  said),  I  must  have  some-  thing.  I  HAVE  already  begun  to  get  what  I  want.  An  aggressive  young  woman  from  the  press  has  come  to  see  me.  She  knocked  on  the  door.  She  said:  So  you're  suing  Johnny.  I  was  very  taken  with  her.  It  was  more  than  that;  I  loved  her.  She  was  like  the  kind  of  young  new  star  Johnny  knows.  Sometimes  she's  first  on  the  show.  She  has  curly  hair.  It  is  so  long  and  curly  that  she  has  to  push  it  away  from  her  face,  or  toss  her  head;  sometimes  she  has  to  reach  behind  her  head  to  free  her  hair  from  being  caught  between  her  body  and  Johnny's  guest  chair.  I  wonder  where  she  comes  from.  Sometimes  she  will  say:  Oh,  I  could  hardly  wait  to  get  out.  .  ..  No,  really.  I'm  very  close  to  my  family;  they're  still  there,  but  .  .  .  Then  Johnny  will  tell  how  lonely  small  towns  used  to  be.  DURING  my  childhood,  I  was  sometimes  lonely,  but  I  do  not  remember  whether  I  lived  in  a  small  town  or  not.  Johnny  was  with  me  at  the  time.  His  program  then  was  called  &quot;Who  Do  You  Trust?&quot;  I  did  not  trust  my  mother,  soI  was  interested.  Johnny  came  on.  His  clothes  were  like  cellophane.  How  I  loved  Johnny!  I  felt  he  was  not  comfortable  in  his  clothes;  if  he  moved,  they  would  crinkle-a  horribly  embarrassing  thing.  THESE  are  some  of  the  things  I  want  from  Johnny:  (1)  I  want  some  of  those  funny  clothes  he  used  to  wear:  the  gray  suits  with  the  narrow  lapels.  (2)  My  own  copy  of  a  poster  I  used  to  see.  It  was  in  a  locksmith  shop-a  dirty  little  place  in  the  subway.  I  used  to  see  it  as  I  was  going  down  into  the  subway.  It  was  already  old  at  that  time.  It  was  an  advertisement  for  a  brand  of  locks;  there  were  locks  of  different  kinds,  and  then  Johnny's  smile.  I  think  it  was  just  his  head-his  big  smile-on  that  one.  &quot;As  seen  on  the  Tonight  Show,&quot;&quot;  I  think  the  poster  said.  Johnny  will  remember.  (3)  Absolute  veto  power  over  any  further  marrying  on  Johnny's  part.  I  THINK  Johnny  should  be  ready  to  admit  how  much  we've  meant  to  one  another  over  the  years.  I  don't  list  this  among  my  demands,  because  I  think  that  this  has  to  come  from  Johnny  of  his  own  free  will.  One     45  thing  I  would  like  is  if  he  took  me  on  a  trip  across  the  Great  Plains.  We  could  rent  a  car  (maybe  an  old  car)  and  drive  along  theold  highways;  stop  at  a  lun-  cheonette;  be  quiet  for  a  time  (the  driver  looking  straight  ahead,  the  pas-  senger,  his  neck  turned,  looking  out  the  side  window);  be  silent,  or  laugh  at  private  jokes.  I  WANT  some  monetary  payment  for  the  time  I  spent  watching  &quot;Who  Do  You  Trust'&quot;  on  television.  Johnny  made  fun  of  this  program  later  himself.  He  might  as  well  have  ac-  knowledged  that  it  was  just  a  waste  of  time  and  we  should  all  have  been  do-  ing  something  else.  My  lawyers  have  the  papers  on  this.  I  have  many  different  lawyers.  They  are  pursuing  different  strategies.  The  lawsuits  are  in  many  different  courts.  THE  press  has  been  irresponsible  in  reporting  this.  She  has  been  here  for  days  now.  I  look  at  her  very  closely.  Maybe  it's  time  she  was  moved  out  of  the  special  guest  chair  onto  the  couch,  where  old  guests  sit;  where  they  get  moved  over  and  over  until  they  are  drained  of  their  special  close-  ness  to  the  host:  Johnny  or  me.  I  have  talked  to  the  press  about  my  wife:  No  (I  said),  I  do  not  trust  my  wife.  When  we  were  first  married  we  moved  to  a  small  cottage,  green  with  white  trim.  She  began  to  write  checks  on  anything  she  could  get  her  hands  on-  napkins.  When  I  confronted  her,  she  laughed.  IFs  on  the  Marcal  National  Bank,  she  said.  At  table,  she  bowed  her  head  sullenly,  looking  at  her  napkin.  I  have  a  fortune  tied  up  in  Scotkins,  she  said.  I  hope  that  in  the  future  Johnny  will  not  move  me  over  onto  the  couch  to  make  room  for  other  guests.  My  own  chair  would  be  nice.  Covered  in  a  striped  slipcover. "