 b"I AM  reading  aloud  to  my  mother  I  from  Shakespeare's  sonnets,  trying  to  find  one  that  would  be  appropri-  ate  to  recite  at  her  funeral.  My  mother  is  not  dying.  She  is  a  relatively  robust  woman,  and  looks  younger  than  her  sixty-three  years,  but  she  speaks  of  her  death  often  and  with  a  macabre  glee.  &quot;When  I  am  gone,&quot;  she  says,  &quot;I  would  like  you  to  say  of  me  that  she  never  made  mountains  out  of  molehills.&quot;  I  am  not  sure  why  my  mother  considers  this  epitaph  to  be  the  highest  form  of  tribute,  and  I  cannot  imagine  that  any  of  the  mourners  at  her  grave  will  understand  it  any  bet-  ter.  But  I  know  it  is  important  to  her,  a  link  with  the  hearty,  hiking-shoes  atmosphere  of  her  youth.  &quot;Fine,&quot;  I  say.  Her  implication,  I  suppose,  is  that  all  her  children,  finespun  creatures,  do  just  the  opposite.  My  mother  and  I  are  sitting  on  the  bed  in  what  I  still  think  ofas  my  room.  I  first  shared  it  with  two  sisters,  and  it  finally  became  my  own  during  college.  The  room  is  adjacent  to  my  mother's,  and  partly  because  of  this  I  have  had  the  greatest  trouble  leaving  home.  Whenever  I  had  one  of  the  fierce  fights  with  her  that  have  been  a  constant  of  our  relationship  ever  since  I  can  remember,  I  used  to  stand  in  front  of  her  locked  door  and  imagine  my  mother  deep  inside  her  bathroom,  swallowing  pills  or  reacting  to  my  rancor  by  taking  flight  out  of  a  win-  dow.  &quot;My  mother  is  dead,&quot;  I  would  think,  composing  the  sentence  for-  mally  in  my  head  as  though  I  were  a  character  in  a  play.  I  saw  myself  freed  and  bereft  at  the  same  time,  a  figure  of  surpassing  interest:  Who  is  that  girl  in  black?  I  hear  her  mother  died.  So  young?  What  a  tragedy!  I  wonder  how  the  children  feel.  T  hey  say  it  hit  that  sone  the  hardest.  I  would  be  watching  myself  being  watched  by  others,  wondering  along  with  them  what  I  was  thinking.  My  imagination  has  always  run  to  the  vivid,  although  my  mother  is  not  the  sort  of  woman  to  embrace  personal  drama.Sooner  or  later  she  always  emerged  from  her  bedroom,  dry-eyed  and  stony.  The  bed  is  narrow,  penitential-as  are  all  the  beds  my  mother  favors  for  her  household.  The  wall  I  lean  my  back  against  is  faintly,  pleasantly  cold.  I  note  the  undertow  of  gray  that  sweeps  through  my  mother's  vigilantly  colored  hair,  and  the  loosened  skin  on  her  neck,  beneath  her  strong  jaw.  Nothing-not  these  or  other  signs-  convinces  me  of  her  mortality.  The  bed  is  tightly  made  up,  with  crisp  white  sheets  and  a  slightly  worn  wool  blanket.  I  was  reminded  of  my  bed  in  an  instant  when  I  read  the  description  of  Clarissa  Dalloway's:  It  is  the  un-  yielding  bed  of  someone  who  was  meant  to  remain  a  virgin.  Now,  in  my  own  apartment,  I  have  a  double  bed  covered  with  delicate,  ly  flowered  sheets.  Taking  a  great  wanton  leap  forward,  I  originally  or-  dered  an  even  larger,  queen-size  bed,  but  when  it  arrived  and  was  shoved  against  the  wall  by  two  surly  delivery-  men  I  immediately  knew  I  was  not  up  to  it.  I  slept  on  top  of  the  unwrapped  mattress  and  box  spring  for  a  night;  then  I  called  up  Bloomingdale's  and  told  them  I  had  made  a  terrible  mis-  take,  my  bedroom  was  too  small,  would  they  please  exchange  the  order?  Both  the  size  of  my  bed  and  the  style  of  linen  were  deliberate  moves  away  from  my  mother's  taste,  and  she  sniffs  at  them  with  the  same  disapproval  she  shows  toward  the  knickknacks  that  clutter  my  window  shelves  and  coffee  table.  These  knickknacks-a  random  assortment  of  pottery,  small  painted  boxes,  and  the  sort  of  oversize  candles  that  are  most  often  found  in  college-  dorm  rooms-are  always  dusty;  one  ceramic  bow!  is  filled  with  honey  drops  thatare  so  ancient  and  sticky  they  cannot  be  separated  from  one  another.  I  apologize  for  these  candies,  making  a  joke  of  them  whenever  a  visitor  tries  to  dislodgeone,  but  I  have  not  removed  them.  Over  the  years  I  have  lost  most  of  the  things  that  have  been  important  to  me.  I  have  a  recurring  dream  in  which  all  of  these  objects  turn  up  again  in  a  neat  little  pile:  a  leather-bound  notebook,  several  watches,  a  stubby  fountain  pen  with  which  I  wrote  a  script  full  of  flourishes,  slips  of  paper  on  which  I  have  scribbled  crucial  thoughts,  a  brown-and-white  cash-  mere  scarf  that  made  me  think  of  my-  self,  briefly,  as  the  mistress  of  an  En-  glish  country  house.  Because  of,  or  in  spite  of,  my  tendency  to  lose  things,  I am  the  most  intractable  of  hoarders.  Every  apartment  I  have  lived  in  has  become  filled  with  magazines  and  slightly  faulty  appliances.  It  is  a  real  effort  of  will  for  me  to  throw  even  used-up  items  out.  I  check  the  bottoms  of  cereal  boxes  for  malingering  flakes  and  dribble  out  the  reluctant  drops  in  milk  cartons.  I  watch  myself  at  these  routines  and  recognize  that  they  are  important  to  me,  a  way  of  stopping  up  gaps.  There  is  one  tube  of  tooth-  paste  that  has  been  lying  in  my  vari-  ous  medicine  cabinets,  untouched,  for  several  years.  The  tube  is  cracked  with  age,  and  recently,  when  a  friend  volunteered  to  test  it,  the  toothpaste  squeezed  out  in  a  dried  gob.  &quot;Throw  it  out,&quot;  she  said,  not  unreasonably.  &quot;I  might  need  it,&quot;  I  explained.  &quot;It  could  come  in  handy  as  a  spare.&quot;  &quot;'Throw  it  out,&quot;  she  said.  I  did  not  want  her  to  think  of  me  as  visibly  eccentric,  so  I  threw  it  out.  Later,  after  she  left,  I  retrieved  the  tube  from  the  wastebasket,  and  it  now  rests  safely  again  on  a  shelf.  IN  the  living  room  a  clock  chimes.  &quot;Hannah,  have  you  done  some-  thing  to  your  hair?&quot;&quot;  my  mother  asks.  &quot;You  look  younger.&quot;  My  mother  watches  me  for  signs  of  bloom  and  decay,  like  a  plant.  &quot;Do  I?&quot;  I  say,  and  for  a  moment  I  feel  as  if  our  roles  have  been  reversed  -that  I  am  old  and  in  need  of  reas-  surance  about  my  faded  allure.  &quot;Let  me  see,&quot;  I  say,  flipping  through  the  pages  of  my  fat  college  anthology,  and  begin  reading  a  sonnet  about  cruelty.  My  mother  stares  out  over  my  head,  her  eyes  fixed.  Her  eyes  are  a  deep-set  gray-green,  quite  beautiful,  and  I  sometimes  pass  along  compliments  other  people  have  made  about  them.  She  receives  such  praise  with  a  touch,  ing  display  of  shyness.  &quot;'Be  wise  as  thou  art  cruel,&quot;  I  declaim;  &quot;  'Do  not  press/  My  tongue-  tied  patience  with  too  much  disdain.&quot;  &quot;  I  listen  to  my  own  voice  as  I  read,  trying  to  infuse  it  with  the  ripeness  that  I  think  Shakespeare  would  have  liked.  My  mother's  affection  has  always  been  unreliable,  subject  to  whim.  One  day,  she  sees  fit  to  tell  me  that  I  shouldn't  waste  so  much  money  on  movies.  &quot;If  you  do  everything  now,&quot;  she  says,  &quot;what  pleasures  will  be  left  to  you  when  you  are  fifty?&quot;  The  force  of  her  illogicality  holds  me,  even  though  I  know  there  aren't  a  limited  number  of  movies-of  pleasures-in  the  world  " b"to  use  up  and  after  that  you  are  left  twiddling  your  thumbs.  Then,  several  daysafterward,  Icall  her  lateat  night,  in  a  sudden  panic  about  my  life.  &quot;I  can't  anymore,&quot;  I  say  rather  desper-  ately,  although  there  has  been  nothing  terrible-no  acute  disappointment,  no  rift-to  bring  on  this  despair.  &quot;I  can't  go  on,&quot;  Irepeat.  &quot;I  don't  see  the  point.  I  just  want  to  do  nothing.  I  want  to  lie  on  my  bed  for  days.  I  can't  always  be  trying  to  accomplish  some-  thing.  I  could  lie  on  my  bed,  couldn't  I?\xc2\xbb  My  mother  listens,  or  at  least  ap-  pears  to,  and  this  alone  begins  to  soothe  me:  I  want-have  always  want-  ed-her  to  listen  to  me  forever.  &quot;It'll  all  be  all  right,  Hannah,&quot;  she  says.  You'll  see.&quot;  &quot;And,&quot;  I  add  out  of  the  blue,  as  if  this  were  the  real  sorrow,  &quot;I  never  have  any  clothes!  I'm  sick  of  having  nothing  to  wear!&quot;  &quot;Don't  worry,&quot;  my  mother  says.  &quot;I  will  buy  you  everything.&quot;  Her  answer  imprints  itself  on  my  mind  in  capital  letters:  &quot;I  WILL  BUY  YOU  EVERYTHING.&quot;  The  grandeur  of  it-the  complete  maternalness-si-  lences  me.  I  want  this  moment  to  last.  Never  mind  that  it  is  entirely  false,  that  this  is  being  said  to  me  by  the  same  woman  who  is  capable  of  re-  minding  me  that  I  owe  her  the  five  dollars  she  lent  me  for  a  taxi  weeks  ago.  Does  she  know  what  she's  say-  ing?  And  how  can  she  say  such  a  protective  thing  and  a  day  or  two  later,  sure  enough,  announce,  &quot;The  trouble  with  you  is  that  you're  spoiled.  You  think  too  much  about  yourself.  If  you  had  to  sell  in  Woolworth's  all  day,  you'd  be  better  off.&quot;  As  a  child,  I  interpreted  such  vacillations  as  cruelty  (anything  else  would  have  required  an  insupportable  detachment),  and  to  this  day  I  tend  to  care  most  deeply  about  people  whq  can  take  or  leave  me.  Such  people,  I've  convinced  myself,  can  be  counted  on  in  some  way  that  precludes  trust:  they  will  never  love  you  or  stop  loving  you  for  yourself  alone.  &quot;That's  it,&quot;&quot;  my  mother  says,  amused  by  my  last  selection.  I  go  on  reading,  but  pretty  soon  the  poem  meanders  into  universalisms  and  no  longer  applies  to  the  specific  darkness  in  her.  I  skimthrough  a  few  others,  trying  to  find  one  that  will  capture  her  fickle  attention.  &quot;Here's  one  on  the  tyrant  Time,&quot;  I  announce  with  pe-  dantic  fervor,  and  my  mother  is  will-  ing  to  listen,  herself  a  great  believerin  the  power  of  passing  hours.  When  I  am  done  she  says,  &quot;He  was  a  genius,  wasn't  he.&quot;  Jealous  of  Shakespeare's  momentary  glory,  I  explain  thatthe  phrase  &quot;the  expense  of  spirit  ina  waste  of  shame&quot;  refers  to  sexual  intercourse.  &quot;I  knew  that,&quot;  she  says  proudly,  not  one  to  be  outwitted.  IN  one  of  my  bookcases  is  a  Lucite-  framed  photograph  of  my  maternal  grandfather,  an  Orthodox  Jew,  who  was  reading  Thomas  Mann's  latest  novel  shortly  before  he  died,  in  Jerusa-  lem.  His  is  the  only  photograph  I  have  set  out,  and  it  is  not  entirely  clear  to  me  why  I  have  chosen  him  from  among  my  many  relatives.  People  mis-  take  his  likeness  for  that  of  Sigmund  Freud,  who  was  a  different  sort  alto-  gether.  But  there  is  a  definite  resem-  blance,  in  the  details,  if  not  in  the  whole:  the  same  neatly  trimmed  beard,  narrow  face,  intelligent  eyes  behind  round  wire  spectacles.  The  fact  of  my  grandfather's  reading  a  secular  book  rather  than  a  religious  onehad  to  be  kept  a  secret  from  some  of  his  less  broadminded  friends  in  the  circle  he  belonged  to.  He  was  reputed  to  be  a  man  to  whom  religious  belief  did  not  come  easily.  I  suppose  he  is  to  be  ad-  mired  for  having  adhered  to  the  laws  in  spite  of  this,  and  sometimes  I  wonder  if  the  force  of  my  grand-  father's  will  lingers  in  me,  and  if  I  stray  from  it  unnaturally.  My  mother  says  that  people  of  the  same  generation  tend  to  look  like  each  other,  but  I  thinkshe  is  pleased  by  her  father's  resemblance  to  Freud.  She  used  to  quote  sardonic  remarks  she  remembers  her  father  making,  but  she  has  stopped  of  late,  as  though  she  sud-  denly  wondered  at  the  implications.  Y  friends,  especially  the  ones  I  retain  from  years  back,  always  ask  about  my  mother  if  we  haven't  been  in  touch  for  a  while.  I  could  be  an  astronaut  now,  awielder  of  influ-  ence,  and  still  they  ask,  several  min-  utes  into  long-distance  conversations,  &quot;How  are  things  with  youand  your  mother?&quot;  When  I  was  much  younger  I  would  leave  my  mother  in  undrastic  ways-  for  weekend  stays  at  the  homes  of  friends  and  cousins.  In  my  family  I  was  considered  a  great  socialite  be-  cause  of  these  visits;  my  siblings  rarely  " b"ventured  out.  I  would  invariably  fall  in  love  with  the  homes  and  mothers  I  was  visiting,  whatever  form  they  took.  What  was  im-  portant  was  that  they  weren't  mine:  I  could  start  all  over  again  in  a  living  room  in  Queens  with  a  mother  who  served  fish  croquettes  on  glazed  blue  plates.  One  weekend  stood  out  in  my  mind  for  a  long  time  as  being  espe-  cially  charmed.  I  was  staying  at  the  small  and  rather  crowded  apartment  of  some  cous-  ins.  The  girl,  who  was  my  age,  didn't  like  her  own  mother  very  much,  and  there  was,  in  fact,  something  irascible  about  this  woman's  attitude  toward  her  chil-  dren  which  wasn't  that  different  from  my  mother's  toward  hers.  Later  on,  I  would  learn  that  &quot;moodiness,&quot;  as  it  was  called,  ran  in  my  mother's  family.  But  then  I  saw  only  my  cousin's  ad-  vantages:  her  brothers  were  far  gentler  than  mine,  and  there  were  no  sisters  to  contend  with.  On  Saturday  night,  af-  ter  the  father  made  the  blessing  over  the  plaited  hevdelah  candle,  signifying  that  Shabbas  was  over  (all  the  families  I  visited  were  Orthodox  ones,  like  mine),  he  drove  us  to  an  Alexander's  in  a  shopping  center  not  far  from  their  house.  This  was  the  sort  of  bland  excursion  my  family  never  made,  and  it  filled  me  with  delight.  I  wandered  through  aisles  filled  with  racks  of  clothing,  staring  at  ordinary  skirts  and  blouses  as  though  I  were  seeing  such  things  for  the  first  time.  I  watched  other  families  shopping  on  the  brightly  lit  floor  around  me.  &quot;How  do  you  like  that,  Daddy?&quot;  said  one  plump  blond  mother,  holding  up  a  brown  suit.  Something  about  her  tone-or  it  may  havebeen  her  windswept  look-  drew  me,  and  I  stood,  staring,  as  her  three  children  gathered  around  to  study  the  effect  of  the  suit  propped  against  their  father,  the  most  nice-  seeming  of  men.  I  tried  to  picture  my  mother  calling  my  father  &quot;Daddy&quot;  or  our  family  going  out  as  a  unit  to  shop  at  a  department  store.  Soon  after  this  episode-I  imagine  my  aunt  must  have  called  up  my  mother  and  trium-  phantly  informed  her  of  my  desire  to  come  and  live  with  them  (my  family  was  richer  than  most  of  our  relatives,  and  we  were  seen  in  grudgingly  glam-  orized  terms)-my  mother  started  re-  ferring  to  my  &quot;Orphan  Annie  act&quot;  whenever  I  went  away  for  the  week-  end.  &quot;Wish  them  good  Shabbas,&quot;  she  said  one  Friday  afternoon,  standing  in  the  front  door  in  the  usual  way  while  I  waited  for  the  elevator,  suitcase  in  hand.  The  clamor  rising  from  behind  her-Louisa,  the  maid,  banging  an  oven  shut  in  the  kitchen,  my  brothers  yelping  at  each  other  upstairs-was  already  beginning  to  seem  like  tender,  lost  music  to  me.  &quot;Should  I  stay  home?&quot;  I  asked  my  mother  tentatively.  &quot;Don't  be  silly,&quot;  my  mother  said,  but  I  could  tell  she  rather  liked  my  doubts.  &quot;You'll  be  back  tomorrow  night,  Sunday  morning  latest.&quot;  \xc2\xabMaybe  I  should  just  stay  home,&quot;  I  said,  offering  my  mother  a  chance  to  declare  her  affection,  claim  me,  pull  me  inside  with  operatic  attachment.  Some  of  my  friends  had  mothers  who  acted  that  way,  clinging  to  their  off-  spring  like  vines.  But  my  mother  wasn't  cut  from  such  stuff.  She  was  German,  not  Eastern  European,  and  I  had  deduced  from  remarks  made  by  the  Polish  and  Hungarian  parents  of  my  friends  that  yekkes,  as  people  like  my  mother  were  called,  were  a  fatally cold  bunch-aberrant,  more  German  than  Jewish.  &quot;Don't  be  silly,&quot;  my  mother  re-  peated.  &quot;You're  all  packed.&quot;  She  leaned  over  to  give  me  a  kiss.  Her  muted-plaid  robe  smelled  of  perfume;  I  could  never  remember  what  it  was  called,  because  it  was  so  unlikely-the  name  of  an  animal.  &quot;But  do  yourself  a  favor  and  don't  play  Orphan  Annie  there,  O.K.!  I  know  I'm  a  terrible  mother,  but  no  one  else  is  interested.&quot;  I  smiled,  but  I  feared  she  was  right.  My  longings  would  have  to  remain  with  me.  It  wasn't  so  much  that  they  weren't  recognized  as  that  they  seemed  to  be  given  mysteriously  short  shrift.  The  elevator  cage  groaned  as  it  de-  scended.  While  I  chatted  with  [REDACTED],  who  worked  the  old-fashioned  lever  as  if  it  were  the  tiller  of  a  ship,  it  oc-  curred  to  me  once  again-like  a  shadow  I  couldn't  dodge-that  I  was  stuck  with  what  I  had.  SUPPOSE  that  for  tenacious  peo-  ple  like  me  the  past  is  never  really  over:  what  you  get  left  with  is  the  tics  of  survival.  I  sit  in  a  psychiatrist's  office,  where  courtesy  reigns,  and  be-  gin  my  story  once  again.  I  can't  sepa-  rate  out  the  feelings  from  the  facts:  My  mother  is  the  Wicked  Witch,  but  she  is  also  the  object  of  desire.  Some-  one-a  nurse-once  banged  my  head  against  a  wall,  and  when  I  told  my  mother  about  it  I  remember  noting,  at  an  age  when  such  perceptions  feel  less  terrible  than  clear,  that  my  mother's  heart  was  not  broken.  But  why,  then,  was  I  also  made  to  feel  special,  my  straight  brown  hair  brushed  by  the  same  nurse  into  pigtails  that  were  tied  with  bright  ribbons?  &quot;Such  shiny  " b"hair,&quot;  my  mother  said.  &quot;It  hangs  like  a  curtain.&quot;  My  two  sisters  had  more  mediocre  hair,  and  less  attention  was  paid  to  grooming  it.  Years  later,  as  soon  as  I  could,  I  righted  the  balance:  I  began  changing  the  color  of  my  hair  every  six  months  or  so  to  a  brassy  off-  blond  that  was  supposed  to  look,  even  in  mid-December,  as  though  it  had  got  that  way  from  the  sun.  And  when  the  fashion  fog  permanents  presented  itself  I  had  the  straightness  of  which  my  mother  had  been  so  proud  stunned  into  frizzy  little  curls.  My  hair  is  no  longer  admirable,  but  no  one  recognizes  me  in  photographs  as  the  girl  with  pigtails  anyway.  There  are  other  photographs.  I  look  at  a  photograph  of  myself  as  a  child-  a  shiny,  starting  to  yellow  snapshot-  and  think,  not  for  the  first  time,  It  ell  started  here.  I  am  a  big-bellied  three-  year-old,  my  floppy  hair  not  yet  made  a  fuss  of  but  hacked  into  bangs  that  stop,  most  oddly,  in  the  middle  of  my  fore-  head.  I  am  wearing  a  pair  of  boy's  striped  swimming  trunks  and  I  am  looking  up  at  my  mother,  who  is  holding  another  baby.  It  is  and  I  have  probably  just  returned  from  a  trip  to  the  beach.  My  mother  rarely  went  along;  my  father  &quot;needed&quot;  her  at  home.  My  father  worked  throughout  the  summer-weekends,  too-except  for  Shabbas.  On  Sundays,  he  worked  at  his  desk  in  the  study,  in  a  leather  chair  that  creaked  whenever  he  leaned  back.  At  some  point,  I  stopped  think-  ing  of  this  hardworking  man,  with  his  constant  supply  of  glasses  of  tea,  as  my  father;  he  was  simply  the  man  whom  my  mother,  for  reasons  incomprehen-  sible  to  me,  had  chosen  to  marry.  It  was  easier  that  way.  MY  childhood  clings  to  me  like  wet  paint.  It  is  summer  and  I  stand  in  a  train  station,  having  missed  the  last  train  I  can  catch  out  to  my  parents'  summer  house  before  Friday  evening  turns  into  the  prescribed  inac-  tivity  of  Shabbas.  I  call  my  mother  from  an  open  pay  phone;  anyone  can  eavesdrop  and  draw  the  wrong  conclu-  sions.  I  am  crying-I  am  always  miss-  ing  trains  and  I  have  never  liked  the summer.  It  makes  me  melancholy,  even  though  I  tan  for  long  hours  in  the  sun.  When  I  pictured  my  life  as  an  adult,  it  never  resembled  this:  I  sit  on  the  beach  and  watch  other  people's  families,  all  the  pails  and  shovels,  and  the  husbands  standing,  talking  to  other  husbands.  The  handle  of  the  phone  is  sticky  and  I  am  threatening  to  become  a  pros-  titute.  &quot;I  will,&quot;  I  say,  &quot;you'll  see,&quot;  although  I  am  a  bit  old  to  begin  and  am  not  sure  how  I'd  go  about  it,  in  any  case.  I  try  to  envision  sexual  encounters  with  a  stream  of  strangers,  and  I  cry  even  harder.  &quot;All  these  rules,&quot;  I  say  to  my  mother,  &quot;they're  killing  me.  There's  nothing  holy  about  them.&quot;  Crowds  of  sweating  people  rush  by  me  to  trains  whose  departures  they  have  clocked  exactly  into  their  schedules.  Nearby,  a  tall  black  man  in  a  large-brimmed  hat  smiles.  &quot;Don't  be  an  idiot,&quot;  my  mother  says  on  the  other  end  of  the  receiver.  Nothing's  so  terrible.  You'll  come  out  after  Shabbas.&quot;  My  tears  stop  abruptly.  &quot;Don't  be  " b"&quot;At  dinner,  an  idiot&quot;  has  worked  its  caustic  charm.  I  have  become  a  person  consoled  by  only  the  breeziest  form  of  solace.  N  older  couple,  of  an  experimental  persuasion-types  I  have  met  only  since  stepping  out  of  my  family  orbit-invite  me  to  a  chic  beach  for  the  day.  A  man  walks  toward  us  along  the  shore  and  my  eyes  drop  to  below  his  belly,  where  there  is  no  bathing  suit.  Groups  of  women  sit  on  towels,  breasts  sloping  downward,  pubic  mounds  glistening  in  the  sun.  I  chat  gaily  with  my  hosts.  I  am  as  shocked  as  my  grandfather  would  have  been  had  he  been  dropped  into  the  scene  from  out  of  his  tree-lined  [REDACTED]  street,  where  hats  are  still  tipped  in  greeting  by  the  polite  and  deeply  nos-  talgic  German  Jews  who  live  in  the  area.  What  surprises  me  is  not  the  streak  of  inhibition  that  marks  me  but  that  I  don't  entirely  wish  to  rid  myself  of  it.  I  remain  clothed.  My  bathing  suit  is  streamlined,  daring  in  its  way,  the  color  of  champagne  in  a  glass.  I  have  spent  some  time  choosing  it.  I  stand  with  one  hand  on  my  hip,  watch,  ing.  My  hosts  are  having  an  argu-  ment.  &quot;I  don't  like  your  tone,&quot; HE says.  &quot;I  don't  like  the  way  you  sound.&quot;  She  is  as  silenced  by  this  as  though  he  had  punched  her  in  the  jaw.  My  par-  ents  yell  at  each  other  in  argument,  and  my  father  is  not  one  to  comment  on  so  abstract  a  grievance  as  my  mother's  tone.  I  think  of  their  German  accents,  lending  a  slightly  martial  quality  to  everything  that  is  said,  and  of  the  many  bathrooms  in  the  apart-  ment  in  which  I  grew  up-the  vigi-  lance  about  odors  and  uncovered  flesh.  One  of  my  brothers  liked  tostalk  around  in  his  underpants,  which  nev-  er  failed  to  infuriate  my  mother-  as  though  at  any  moment  he  would  go  mad  and  expose  all.  &quot;Put  a  dress-  ing  gown  on  immediately!&quot;  she  would  say.  On  the  beach,  close  by,  a  little  girl  plays  with  the  wristwatch  on  her  fa-  ther's  bronzed  arm,  twanging  the  strap,  laughing  when  he  grimaces  as  though  in  pain.  He  is  sprawled  in  a  rickety  little  chair;  they  are  both  naked.  IT  is  evening  on  a  winter  Sunday  and  I  am  being  driven  back  to  the  city.  I  do  not  know  the  people  in  the  car  with  me,  but  I  assume  their  lives  com*  are  preferable  to  mine.  We  pass  emptied  motel  pools  and  I  imagine  theguests  inside,  pre-  paring  themselves  for  dinner.  One  of  the  two  men  in  the  car,  the  =  driver,  is  a  lawyer.  He steers  with  great  precision,  as  though  he  were  applying  for  the  role  of  &quot;Driver&quot;  in  a  movie.  I  have  never  learned  how  to  drive.  Everyone  excuses  this  by  saying,  &quot;Of  course,  you  grew  up  in  the  city.&quot;&quot;  When  I  was  young,  we  were  driven  to  school  by  Willy.  He  was  my  other  grand-  father's-my  father's  father's-chauffeur,  and  my  sisters  and  I  used  to  take  turns  asking  him  what  he  had   eaten  for  dinner  the  night  before.  At  eight-  fifteen  every  weekday  morning,  Willy's  din-  ner  menu  seemed  more  important  than  the  school  day  ahead.  I  was  fascinated  by  the  glass  of  milk  that  con-  cluded  all  his  meals.  My  second-oldest  sister,  Rachel,  used  to  copy  the  way  Willy  pronounced  his  &quot;s&quot;s:  &quot;A  big  peesh  of  apple  pie  and  a  tall  glash  of  milk,&quot;  she'd  say  grandly.  My  mother  has  learned  to  drive  late  in  life,  so  there  is  a  chance  for  me.  When  I  am  a  passenger  in  her  car,  I  point  out  oncoming  cars  and  stop  signs.  She  does  not  pay  close  enough  attention,  although  she  is  very  skilled  at  last-minute  maneuvers.  While  she  concentrates  on  twists  in  the  road  I  watch  her  profile-the  faint  freckling  of  her  skin,  the  straight  line  of  her  mouth,  which  makes  me  think  of  a  child's  drawing.  I  know  her  face  by  heart.  Sometimes  I  think  nothing  will  break  her  spell. "