 b"HENRY\xe2\x80\x99S  last  term  at  college,  compared  to  the  balmy  springs  of  most  graduating  seniors,  was  a  cool,  gray,  and  rainy  fall.  Two  years  before,  as  an  imagined  remedy  for  academic  fatigue  and  as  a  needed  respite  from  a  long,  strenuous  love  affair,  he  had  taken  a  term  off,  tripped  aimlessly  around  Europe  for  several  months,  and  then  gone  back  to  his  summer  job  at  a  local  tennis  club,  raking  clay  and  laying  tapes  and  re-  pairing  dilapidated  fences.  He  returned  to  college  the  following  fall,  but  as  a  consequence  of  this  term-long  hiatus  the  symmetry  of  his  four  years  was  disrupted-transformed  into  a  rather  lopsided  three  springs  and  five  autumns.  As  he  began  his  courses  the  next  September,  he  felt  he  was  reliving  partof  his  past  or,  like  a  man  castas  himself  in  his  own  play,  taking  an  active  role  in  the  enactment  of  his  own  nostalgia.  Added  to  this  were  his  aca-  demic  foibles  of  the  previous  spring,  when  for  the  first  time  in  his  life  he  had  failed  a  course,  so  that  he  was  now  obliged  to  take  five  courses  instead  of  the  usual  four.  With  a  novel  air  of  gravity  surrounding  his  schooling,  and  feeling  he  had  outgrown  the  clois-  tered  world  of  the  dormitory,  he  moved  from  his  old  college  room  to  a  large  wooden  house  not  far  away,  sharing  his  new  adult  life  with  a  mid-  dle-aged  lawyer,  her  carpenter  boy-  friend,  and  a  young  man  named  Jim,  who  was  trying  to  break  into  the  music  business  by  producing  a  radio  program  entitled  &quot;Country  Greats  in  Concert.&quot;  Henry  lived  alone  on  the  third  floor,  and  as  he  lay  in  bed  at  night  he  could  hear  the  melancholy  strains  of  &quot;Coun-  try  Greats&quot;  wafting  up  the  stairs  tohis  room.  From  his  window  he  could  look  down  onto  the  topsof  the  trees  and  watch  as,  for  no  apparent  reason,  a  leaf  would  suddenly  release  itself,  fall  from  a  motionless  branch,  and  drift  down  onto  the  windshield  of  a  parked  car,  its  reflection  falling  upward  through  the  tinted  glass.  By  day,  he  attended  his  classes  with  a  regularity  previously  unknown  to  him-trudging  off  in  the  morning  with  an  armful  of  books,  cutting  a  clean  line  across  the  campus,  finding  a  seat  in  the  auditorium  and  leaning  back  as  the  lecture  began,  recording  its  &quot;salient  points'&quot;  in  his  notebook  in  a  small,  dutiful  script.  But  as  he  fol-  lowed  the  happy  throng  of  students  between  classes  he  noticed  thatthese  were  people  he  did  not  know.  In  ex-  tending  his  education  beyond  the  pro-  jected  four  years,  he  had  outlived  the  presence  of  his  peers  and  come  into  an  unimagined  era  of  strangers.  College  was  something  constant,  ongoing,  he  realized,  and  for  all  the  people  he  knew  there  were  countless  others  com-  ing  up  behind,  usurping  them,  taking  their  places  in  a  world  of  transients.  He  had  lived  into  a  time  that  no  longer  included  him  and  was  already  reach-  ing  to  embrace  the  hopeful  lives  of  younger,  fresher  students.  Now  and  then  he  would  come  upon  familiar  faces.  In  &quot;Classics  of  Histori-  cal  Literature,&quot;  for  example,  taught  by  a  booming,  bearlike  man  whose  eyes  would  clamp  shut  in  a  kind  of  raptur-  ous  swoon  as  he  recalled,  for  the  thou-  sandth  time,  an  anecdote  about  one  of  his  heroes,  Henry  was  amused  to  dis-  cover  the  nape  of  his  first  girlfriend,  the  familiar  inclination  of  her  head,  three  rows  down  to  the  right.  As  the  professor  marched  through  the  &quot;De-  cline  and  Fall  of  the  Roman  Empire&quot;  and  the  class  transcribed  his  ramblings  in  their  varied  hands,  Henry  examined  the  down  on  the  back  of  her  neck,  amazed  that  she,  for  whom  he  would  once  have  given  a  finger  in  sacrifice,  now  elicited  only  a  distant  wash  of  fondness,  which  did  not  lapse  into  re-  gret.  Instead,  he  felt  a  faint  pity  for  her  new  boyfriend,  in  whom,  when  he  met  him  once  after  class,  he  detected  the  same  glint  of  hopelessness  he  had  once  felt  in  himself.  One  day,  when  he  sat  beside  her,  he  was  amused  by  her  industry,  the  ceaseless  stream  of  notes  that  flowed  from  her  purple  pen,  the  way  she  frantically  flopped  the  notebook  pages  over  in  midsentence,  as  if  in  fearof  missing  a  single  word.  A  beam  of  sunlight  fell  through  the  window  and  bathed  them  both  in  a  warm,  autumnal  glow;  he  leaned  toward  her  and  tried  to  inhale  the  fragrance  that  had  once  tortured  him-it  was  there,  but  it  did  not  draw  him  nearer.  He  was  touched  by  the  trappings  of  her  new  life:  new  haircut  and  shoes,  unfamiliar  clothes,  the  sky-  blue  bicycle  she  hurriedly  unlocked  and  on  which,  like  a  man  ina  silent  movie,  she  teetered  away  across  the  campus.  After  class  Henry  went  out  through  the  iron  gates,  across  the  avenue,  and  turned  in  tohis  favorite  Chinese  restaurant,  and  there,  with  one  of  his  schoolbooks  for  company,  he  ordered  a  bowl  of  soup  and  fried  rice  and,  as  he  ate,  listened  to  the  quarrel  of  two  young  lovers  and  the  exchange  of  an  old  man  and  his  grandson  debating  the  contents  of  an  eggroll.  As  he  walked  home  he  could  hear  the  sound  of  &quot;Country  Greats&quot;  a  block  away,  and  on  his  way  upstairs  he  looked  in  as  Jim  and  a  friend  played  and  replayed  a  single  song.  &quot;Hey,  Henry!&quot;  Jim  said  suddenly,  noticing  him  in  the  door-  way.  &quot;How's  school?&quot;  That  night,  when  Henry  finished  all  his  studying  andfound  that  the  few  friends  he  called  weren't  home,  he  went  out  by  himself,  strolling  in  and  out  of  bookstores,  pausing  for  a  cup  of  coffee,  looking  into  bars  for  someone  he  knew,  and  then  drifted  back  to  his  room.  On  this  and  other  walks,  he  discovered  the  first  strange  lesson  of  adulthood:  its  inescapable  loneliness.  IS  courses  went  well.  His  method  of  studying  was  foolproof,  and  for  the  first  time  he  felt  the  yeomanlike  satisfaction  of  diligence.  He  was  amused  by  simple  things-the  interre-  latedness  of  his  subjects.  In  the  week  he  was  studying  Gibbon's  &quot;The  De-  cline  and  Fall  of  the  Roman  Empire,&quot;  for  example,  he  learned  in  Anthro-  pology  99  that  gibbons,  tree-swinging  apes,  were  prone  to  humanlike  error:  a  random  sampling  of  skeletons  from  a  certain  Asian  jungle  revealed  that  a  high  percentage  of  the  gibbons  had  at  one  time  or  another  suffered  broken  bones,  presumably  caused  by  their  air-  borne  miscalculations-a  branch  missed  and  a  long,  bloodcurdling  scream  as  they  fell  like  stones,  carrying  fist,  fuls  of  shredded  leaves  to  the  jungle  floor.  The  two  teachers  of  this  course  seemed  to  mim-  ic  the  characteristics  of  two  distinct  varieties  of  primates:  the  one  short,  rotund,  and  stout,  with  a  head  of  auburn  hair,  distant  kin  of  the  chimpanzee,  orangutan,  gorilla,  and  other  slow-moving  apes;  the  other  light-limbed,  delicate,  bifocaled,  re-  sembling  the  nimble,  arboreal  vege-  tarians-lemurs,  spider  monkeys-  who  spent  their  entire  simian  lives,  Henry  read,  in  the  &quot;verdant,  airy  world  of  the  forest  canopy.&quot;  The  teacher  of  527573736961n  102  was  an  affable,  limping  527573736961n  with  a  cane.  The  class,  the  last  of  Henry's  morn-  ing,  was  held  at  eleven  in  a  cozy,  " b"coffin-shaped  room  in  Bartram,  in  the  middle  of  the  campus.  The  seats  were  upholstered  and,  in  conjunction  with  the  sonorous  voice  of  Professor  Slokov,  induced  in  Henry  a  half-reclining  po-  sition  of  daydreaming  contemplation.  The  autumn  gave  way  to  a  succession  of  gray,  rainy,  wintry  days,  and  from  his  seat  he  could  look  out  and  up  at  the  falling  leaves  as  they  were  swept  past  the  window,  only  to  tumble,  he  imagined,  to  a  resting  place  under  a  bush  or  pasted  to  the  sole  of  a  nervous  freshman's  plodding  shoe.  In  time,  Henry's  attention  turned  toward  a  young  woman  he  distantly  knew,  sit-  ting  a  few  rows  in  front  of  him  and  wearing  glasses.  His  interest  in  Rus-  sian  literature  was  slowly  displaced,  and  each  successive  class  witnessed  his  steady  migration  across  the  room,  the  gap  between  his  seat  and  hers  diminishing  until  there  was  only  one  seat  between  them,  and  then,  on  the  next  day,  no  seat  at  all.  They  eventually  began  to  have  small  pre-  and  post-class  conversations,  and  dur-  ing  class,  as  they  leaned  back  in  their  chairs,  they  would  exchange  whis-  pered  imitations  of  Professor  Slokov's  527573736961n  accent.  Sandra  was  a  527573736961n  major  and,  she  later  told  him,  part 527573736961n,  and  so  she  would  point  out  the  connotations  of  certain  words,  the  nuances  of  certain  phrases.  But  mostly  they  just  sat  in  a  kind  of  happy  silence,  Henry  pleased  there  was  someone  to  share  this  sleepy  interim  of  the  day  with.  One  morning  he  wore  a  short-  sleeved  shirt  and  the  back  of  his  arm  lightly  touched  against  the  back  of  hers,  and  to  his  surprise  she  didn't  move  her  arm  away.  He  closed  his  eyes  and  listened  to  the  sound  of  rain  as  drops  began  to  pelt  against  the  win-  dow,  and  felt,  in  this  faint  exchange  of  heat,  a  distant  signal  of  acquiescence.  Several  days  later  he  ran  into  her  at  the  athletic  fields  during  halftime  of  an  intramural  soccer  game  he  was  playing  in.  She  was  wearing  high  leather  boots,  a  plaid  skirt,  a  low-cut  sweater  almost  the  color  of  her  own  pale  skin.  As  they  stood  together,  talking,  the  light  mist  that  had  begun  to  fall  gath-  ered  like  beads  in  her  hair,  and  the  smell  of  grass  and  mud  mingled  with  the  distant  scent  of  her  perfume.  &quot;So  how've  you  been?&quot;  he  said,  tossing  a  muddy  soccer  ball  up  into  the  air  and  catching  it.  &quot;Oh,  all  right,&quot;  she  answered,  staring  distractedly  away  across  the  fields.  &quot;A  little  horny,  I  guess.&quot; He  was  so  surprised  by  this  simple  self-observation-by  this  word  he  had  never  heard  spoken  by  a  woman  before  -that  he  laughed.  &quot;Well,  you  can't  have  everything,&quot;  he  said,  intending  to  make  her  laugh,  though  she  didn't.  A  shrill  whistle  blew,  and  he  said  goodbye  and  sprinted  back  into  the  game.  A  few  weeks  later  he  called  Sandra  impulsively  on  a  cold,  rainy  night,  and  they  met  at  a  small  bar  near  his  house.  Outside  of  class,  she  seemed  differ-  ent,  transformed.  She  wore  the  same  low-cut  sweater  and  had  exchanged  her  glasses  for  contacts.  They  spoke  of  inconsequential  things-Professor  Slokov,  the  thesis  she  was  writing  on  Pushkin,  the  six  months  she  had  once  spent  in  [REDACTED].  As  they  talked  Henry  gathered  she  had  a  boyfriend  some-  where,hidden  away  in  another  city.  He  soon  learned  that  the  boyfriend  was  French,  that  the  city  was  [REDACTED],  and  that  she  had  met  him  the  year  before,  when  he  was  a  graduate  stu-  dent  in  medieval  history.  It  also  be-  came  apparent  that  her  happiness  hinged  on  the  tenor  of  her  weekly  phone  conversations  with  him,  and  thatin  his  absence  she  suffered  a  cer-  tain  sense  of  displacement,  disloca-  tion-as  if  the  world  to  which  she  had  pre-  viously  belonged  no  longer  existed.  Like  Henry,  she  was  living  out  her  last  college  year  more  from  neces-  sity  than  desire.  On  the  way  home  he  invited  her  into  his  house,  butshe  begged  off.  &quot;Some  other  time,&quot;  she  said,  and  then,  as  if  in  con-  solation,  she  sudden-  ly,  passionately  kissed  him,  her  hand  land-  ing  like  a  bird  on  the  curve  of  his  hip,  his  cupping  the  hollow  of  her  back.  &quot;See  you  in  class,&quot;  she  said,  final-  ly,  and  kissed  him      again.  |  Henry  went  up  to  r  e  &quot;ae  his  room  with  a  sud-  _  ra:  \xc2\xbb1&quot;d  den  sense  of  good  for-  srplir's?  tune  and  a  peculiar  gratitude  for  being  alone.  He  did  not  im-  mediately  go  to  sleep  but  sat  up  in  the  dark-  " b"ness  looking  out  the  window  and  lis-  tening  to  the  sound  of  leaves  falling  through  the  windless  air.  In  class,  they  continued  to  sit  to-  gether,  to  whisper  and  talk,  and  did  so  with  the  pleasant  sensation  of  a  shared  secret.  In  the  chaste  light  of  527573736961n  literature  her  beauty  seemed  to  take  on  softer,  richer  tones.  They  met  again  at  a  small  subterranean  bistro  near  her  dorm  and  had  several  drinks-he  beer,  she  7  and  7.  &quot;So  how's  your  boyfriend?&quot;  Henry  asked.  &quot;Oh,  not  too  good,&quot;  she  said,  look-  ing  down  at  the  table,  tapping  together  two  coins  with  two  pale  fingers.  &quot;I  talked  to  him  last  night  and  he  told  me  he  wasn't  coming  for  Christmas,  and  so  I  got  mad  and  told  him  I  was  going  there,  and  thenhe  started  talking  about  his  mother,  how  there  wasn't  any  room  in  the  house,  blah,  blah,  blah  .  ..&quot;  &quot;Well,  he'll  call  back,&quot;  Henry  weakly  offered.  &quot;'Yeah,  well,  he's  supposed  to  call  tomorrow,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It's  just  a  pain.&quot;  With  that,  the  conversation  shifted;  their  mutual  acceptance  of  this  boyfriend  seemed  to  offer  safety  some-  how  -a  necessary,  unspoken  bound-  ary.  On  the  way  back  he  repeated  his  previous  invitation,  she  accepted,  and  he  led  her  up  the  dark  diagonal  of  the  stairway  to  his  room.  They  knelt  on  the  bedby  the  window  looking  out  on  the  street  below,  and  watched  as  asmall  dog  tugged  its  master  from  hedge  to  hydrant  and  a  man  on  a  bi-  cycle  glided  by  beneath  them.  While  trying  to  see  a  cat  creeping  along  the  top  of  a  picket  fence,  they  touched  shoulders  and  then,  with  the  sure,  in-  evitable  pull  of  gravity,  they  resumed  the  kiss  with  which  they  had  parted  the  last  time  he  had  seen  her.  But  as  Henry  watched  her  face  in  the  mut-  ed  darkness  of  the  room,  her  eyes  closed  like  two  translucent  shells,  it  suddenly  came  to  him,  with  the  abrupt  clarity  of  a  dream,  that  her  expression  was  no  longer  her  own  but,  rather,  that  of  someone  he  had  never  met  before.  She  seemed  distant,  alone  -as  if  what  she  was  thinking  could  not  be  shared.  He  wanted  to  say  some-  thing  to  break  the  silence,  but  then  realized  he  didn't  know  her  well  enough  to  know  what  to  say.  He  was  relieved  when  she  kissed  him  goodbye  and  went  quietly  from  his  room;  he  listened  as  her  footsteps  receded  down the  stairs  and  the  front  door  thumped  shut  behind  her.  THE  next  day,  she  was  not  in  class;  the  day  after,  he  was  not;  and  then,  like  little  lights  going  out,  each  of  Henry's  classes  ended  to  a  faint  smattering  of  student  applause.  Profes-  sor  Slokov  gave  a  little  bow,  and  the  term  was  suddenly  over.  In  the  week  before  final  exams  Henry  methodically  reviewed  for  each  of  his  courses,  finished  a  paper  on  &quot;The  Idiosyncrasies  of  Primate  Evo-  lution,&quot;  and  otherwise  tied  up  the  loose  ends  of  his  formal  education.  Even  if  he  failed  his  exams,  he  calcu-  lated,  he  would  still  pass  and  graduate.  He  knew  most  of  his  grades  already:  A,  A-,  B,  C.  The  C  was  in  527573736961n.  He  ran  into  Sandra  one  afternoon  as  he  was  walking  slowly  home  from  a  bout  with  sleep  at  the  library  and  she  tripped  into  his  path  down  the  steps  of  Fowler.  &quot;What  are  your  plans?&quot;  she  asked  him,  but  he  didn't  really  know.  &quot;I  might  go  skiing  for  a  while,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;and  then  I  should  find  a  job-  gardening,  maybe.&quot;  Although  it  was  December,  the  weather  was  warm  and  Henry  was  dressed  in  a  worn-out  sports  jacket,  in  the  standard  style  of  the  college.  He  stood  talking  with  her  in  the  dying  light;  the  wind  whipped  up  the  scents  of  the  decaying  autumn,  and  she  lightly  held,  tugging  and  releasing  by  turns,  the  tired  cloth  of  his  lapel.  He  was  moved  more  by  this  small  gesture  than  he  had  been  by  her  visit  to  his  room.  As  she  fastened  and  unfastened  a  single  button  on  his  coat,  he  was  also  moved  by  the  sudden,  impromptu  conjunction  of  impressions,  and  by  a  premonition  that  they  would  be  the  last  things  he  would  remember  of  college:  the  faint  fragrances  of  leaves,  wet  wool,  perfume;  the  wonderful  hovering  sense  of  enclosing  dusk.  He  looked  up  toward  the  lit  windows  of  the  college  rooms  and  felt  safe,  protected,  and,  if  only  for  the  moment,  loved. "