 b"MY  wife  wants  a  dog.  She  al-  M  ready  has  a  baby.  The  baby's  almost  two.  My  wife  says  that  the  baby  wants  the  dog.  My  wife  has  been  wanting  a  dog  for  a  long  time.  I  have  had  to  be  the  one  to  tell  her  that  she  couldn't  have  it.  But  now  the  baby  wants  a  dog,  my  wife  says.  This  may  be  true.  The  baby  is  very  close  to  my  wife.  They  go  around  together  all  the  time,  clutching  each  other  tightly.  I  ask  the  baby,  who  is  a  girl,  &quot;Whose  girl  are  you?  Are  you  Daddy's  girl?&quot;  'The  baby  says,  &quot;Momma,&quot;  and  she  doesn't  just  say  it  once,  she  says  it  repeatedly,  &quot;Momma  Momma  Momma.&quot;  I  don't  see  why  I  should  buy  a  hundred-dollar  dog  for  that  damn  baby.  The  kind  of  dog  the  baby  wants,  my  wife  says,  is  a  cairn  terrier.  This  kind  of  dog,  my  wife  says,  is  a  Presbyterian  like  herself  and  the  baby.  Last  year  the  baby  was  a  Baptist-that  is,  she  went  to  the  Mother's  Day  Out  program  at  the  First  Baptist  twice  a  week.  This  year  she  is  a  Presbyterian  because  the  Presbyterians  have  more  swings  and  slides  and  things.  I  think  that's  pretty  shameless  and  I  have  said  so.  My  wife  is  a  legitimate  lifelong  Presbyterian  and  says  that  makes  it  O.K.:  way  back  when  she  was  a  child  she  used  to  go  to  the  First  Presbyterian  in  Evansville,  Illinois.  I  didn't  go  to  church,  because  I  was  a  black  sheep.  There  were  five  children  in  my  family  and  the  males  rotated  the  position  of  black  sheep  among  us,  the  oldest  one  being  the  black  sheep  for  a  whilewhile  he  was  in  his  D.W  .I.  period  or  whatever  and  then  getting  grayer  as  he  maybe  got  a  job  or  was  in  the  service  and  then  finally  becoming  a  white  sheep  when  he  got  married  and  had  a  grandchild.  My  sister  was  never  a  black  sheep,  because  she  was  a  girl.  Our  baby  is  a  pretty  fine  baby.  I  told  my  wife  for  many  years  that  she  couldn't  have  a  baby  because  it  was  too  expensive.  But  they  wear  you  down.  They  are  just  wonderful  at  wearing  you  down,  even  if  it  takes  years,  as  it  did  in  this  case.  Now  I  hang  around  the  baby  and  hug  her  every  chance  I  get.  Her  name  is  Joanna.  She  wears  Oshkosh  overalls  and  says  &quot;no,&quot;  &quot;bot-  tle,&quot;  &quot;out,&quot;  and  &quot;Momma.&quot;  She  looks  most  lovable  when  she's  wet,  when  she's  just  had  a  bath  and  her  blond  hair  is  all  wetand  she's  wrapped  in  a  beige  towel.  Sometimes  when  she's  watching  television  she  forgets  that  you're  there.  You  can  just  look  at  her.  When  she's  watching  television,  she  looks  dumb.  I  like  her  better  when  she's  wet.  This  dog  thing  is  getting  to  be  a  big  issue.  I  said  to  my  wife,  &quot;Well  you've  got  the  baby.  Do  we  have  to  have  the  damn  dog  too?&quot;  The  dog  will  prob-  ably  bite  somebody,  or  get  lost.  I  can  see  myself  walking  all  over  our  subdi-  vision  asking  people,  &quot;Have  you  seen  this  brown  dog?&quot;  &quot;What's  its  name?&quot;  they'll  say  to  me,  and  I'll  stare  at  them  coldly  and  say,  &quot;Michael.&quot;  That's  what  she  wants  to  call  it,  Michael.  That's  a  silly  name  for  a  dog  and  I'll  have  to  go  looking  for  this  possibly  rabid  animal  and  say  to  people,  &quot;Have  you  seen  this  brown  dog?  Michael?&quot;  It's  enough  to  make  you  think  about  divorce.  What's  that  baby  going  to  do  with  that  dog  that  it  can't  do  with  me?  Romp?  I  can  romp.  I  took  her  to  the  playground  at  the  school.  It  was  Sun-  day  and  there  was  nobody  there,  and  we  romped.  I  ran,  and  she  tottered  after  me  at  a  good  pace.  I  held  her  as  she  slid  down  the  slide.  She  groped  her  way  through  a  length  of  big  pipe  they  have  there  set  in  concrete.  She  picked  up  a  feather  and  looked  at  it  for  a  long  time.  I  was  worried  that  it  might  bea  diseased  feather  but  she  didn't  put  it  in  her  mouth.  Then  we  ran  some  more  over  the  patched  bare  softball  field  and  through  the  arcade  that  connects  the  temporary  wooden  classrooms,  which  are  losing  their  yellow  paint,  to  the  main  building.  Joanna  will  go  to  this  school  someday,  if  I  stay  in  the  same  job.  I  looked  at  some  dogs  at  Pets-A-  Plenty,  which  has  birds,  rodents,  rep-  tiles,  and  dogs,  all  in  top  condition.  They  showed  me  the  cairn  terriers.  &quot;Do  they  have  their  prayer  books?&quot;  I  asked.  This  woman  clerk  didn't  know what  I  was  talking  about.  The  cairn  terriers  ran  about  two  ninety-five  per,  with  their  papers.  I  started  to  ask  if  they  had  any  illegitimate  children  at  lower  prices,  but  I  could  see  that  it  would  be  useless  and  the  woman  al-  ready  didn't  like  me,  I  could  tell.  What  is  wrong  with  me?  Why  am  I  not  a  more  natural  person,  like  my  wife  wants  me  to  be?  I  sit  up,  in  the  early  morning,  at  my  desk  on  the  sec-  ond  floor  of  our  house.  The  desk  faces  the  street.  At  five-thirty  in  the  morn-  ing,  the  runners  are  already  out,  indi-  viduallyor  in  pairs,  running  toward  rude  red  health.  I'm  sippinga  glass  of  Gallo  Chablis  with  an  ice  cube  in  it,  smoking,  worrying.  I  worry  that  the  baby  may  jam  a  kitchen  knife  into  an  electrical  outlet  while  she's  wet.  I've  put  those  little  plastic  plugs  into  all  the  electrical  outlets,  but  she's  learned  how  to  pop  them  out.  I've  checked  the  Crayolas.  They've  made  the  Crayolas  safe  to  eat-I  called  the  head  office  in  [REDACTED].  She  can  eat  a  whole  box  of  Crayolas  and  nothing  much  will  happen  to  her.  If  I  don't  getthe  new  tires  for  the  car,  I  can  buy  the  dog.  I  remember  the  time,  thirty  years  ago,  when  I  put  Herman's  mother's  Buick  into  a  cornfield,  on  the  Beau-  mont  highway.  There  was  a  car  com-  ing  at  me  in  my  lane,  and  I  didn't  hit  it,  and  it  didn't  hit  me.  I  remember  veering  to  the  right  and  down  into  the  ditch  and  up  through  the  fence  and  coming  torest  in  the  cornfield  and  then  getting  out  to  wake  Herman  and  the  two  of  us  going  to  see  what  the  happy  drunks  in  the  other  car  had  come  to,  in  the  ditch  on  the  other  side  of  the  road.  That  was  when  I  was  a  black  sheep,  years  and  years  ago.  That  was  skillfully  done,  I  think.  I  get  up,  congratulate  myself  in  memory,  and  go  in  to  look  at  the  baby. "