 b"WHEN  I  last  switched  banks,  it  was  not  just  because  they  asked  me  toleave,  saying  that  not  only  was  I  bouncing  too  many  checks  but  I  rarely  had  enough  mon-  ey  in  my  account  to  garner  for  the  service  charges.  As  a  matter  of  record,  I  had  already  decided  to  leave-on  the  day  they  installed  the  maroon  velours  rope  system  to  eliminate  custom-  er  gridlock.  Reading  &quot;Dead  Souls&quot;  fixedly  in  order  to  block  out  what  Muzak  was  doing  to  &quot;We  Kiss  in  a  Shadow,&quot;  I  stood  for  forty  minutes  before  realizing  that  the  guard  had  accidentally  cordoned  me  off  from  the  other  payers  and  receivers.  My  very  first  checking  account  had  been  a  neat  perquisite  of  ajob  I  once  had  at  a  genteel  nonprofit  establish-  ment  on  the  upper  East  Side.  The  staff  got  free  checking  at  a  local  bank  that  belonged  to  one  of  the  directors,  and  the  arrangement  spoiled  me.  New  and  friendless  in  New  York,  I  was  com-  forted  by  being  on  line  with  people  who  had  to  have  two  hundred  and  fifty  thousand  dollars  in  order  to  stand  next  to  me.  I  imagined  they  were  deducing  my  fortune  from  my  appearance,  say-  ing  &quot;She  can  afford  to  dress  like  that,&quot;  which  is  what  we  used  to  say  about  the  Binney-crayon  heiress  back  home  who  wore  thongs  and  digitated  socks.  The  bank  was  old  and  Wedgwoody  in-  side,  with  Colonial  writing  desks  and  ballpoints  fitted  out  as  quills.  Alex-  ander  Hamilton  had  had  a  savings  ac-  count  there.  No  miniature  koala  bears  were  allowed  next  to  the  tellers'  name-  plates,  and  there  were  no  bulletproof  dividers;  it  was  understood  that  rather  than  make  an  ugly  scene  by  holding  up  the  bank  you  would  just  make  a  special  arrangement  with  an  officer.  Once  I  was  on  line  behind  a  woman  and  her  collie,  and  when  they  got  to  the  front  I  was  surprised  that  they  didn't  peel  off  for  separate  tellers.  My  second  bank  was  the  Galvanized  Rank  and  File,  in  midtown,  organized  in  1923  by  the  Vinyl  and  Linoleum  Layers  Union.  They  charged  nothing  percheck,  had  no  monthly  service charge,  and  played  no  music;  they  ac-  cepted  your  blood-donor  card  as  a  sec-  ond  ID.  There  wereno  brazen  posters  or  pennants  broadcasting  their for  you.  Although  they  were  entitled  to  call  themselves  &quot;America's  Only  Inof-  fensive  Bank,&quot;  they  boasted  only  &quot;Member  F.D.I.C.&quot;  and  &quot;Assets  Over  $1.25  Billion.&quot;  Eight  loosely  chained  pens  were  maintained  in  good  condition  for  our  use.  The  bank  had  virtually  no  &quot;d\xc3\xa9cor.&quot;  The  walls  were  covered  in  fabric  textured  like  peanut  shells,  to  which  were  affixed  three  slo-  gans  in  fake  brass  lettering-one  from  Proverbs,  one  from  Lincoln,  and  one  from  Big  Bill  Hawser,  organizer  of  the  V.L.L.U.  Their  basic  message,  possibly  radical  in  its  day,  was  that  the  tongue  of  the  righteous  is  choice  sil-  ver,  and  therefore  legal  tender  for  all  debts.  This  halcyon  period  went  on  for  some  time,  long  enough  for  me  to  build  up  my  credit  profile  and  banking  nerve.  I  began  to  consider  seriously  the  bank's  leaflets,  no  longer  dismiss-  ing  the  suggestion  that  I  take  out  a  loan  and  finally  build  that  new  patio  onto  my  sixth-floor  walkup.  When  I  was  mugged  one  after-  noon  on  my  way  to  the  Y  and  relieved  of  my  entire  cash  nexus,  my  mother  responded  by  buying  me  a  second-  hand  Electrolux,  which  I  still  have,  while  my  father  gave  me  a  hundred  dollars  to  open  a  savings  account,  which  I  kept  open  for  several  weeks.  During  this  heady  fiscal  period,  I  also  leased  a  safe-de-  posit  box  on  the  advice  of  some  friends  who  had  lost  all  their  per-  sonal  effects  in  a  fire.  Along  with  this  came  the  use  of  a  private  room  within  the  bank  vault  in  which  to  ex-  amine  my  valuable  pa-  pers-including  one  inscribed  to  me  by  Pro-  fessor  Lattimore  (of  Greek  Lit.  in  Trans.):  &quot;If  the  quotes  were  re-  moved,  this  would  be  the  shortest  paper  ever  written.&quot;  Things  began  to  unravel  when  the  bank  " b"installed  heavy  Lucite  dividers  across  the  counters,  separating  the  people  on  line  from  the  bank  workers.  A  coolness  sprang  up  when  we  who  had  nurtured  homely  ac-  quaintances  with  tell-  ers  now  had  to  raise  our  voices  unnaturally;  some  of  us  simply  chose  the  mute  trans-  action.  On  line,  we  began  to  quip  darkly  among  ourselves  about  how  we  had  to  slide  our  money  through  the  special  channel,  the  way  you  do  at  liquor  stores  in  Times  Square  or  at  high-se-  curity  [REDACTED]  Fried  Chickens:  &quot;I'll  take  ten  rolls  of  quarters  and  a  No.  4  Extra-  Crispy,  no  dark  meat.&quot;  In  time,  there  came  the  first  of  the  auto-  mated  line-control  de-  vices.  &quot;'Teller-Quest&quot;\xc2\xae  ours  was  called-a  big  light  box  that  said  ei-  ther  &quot;Teller  Avail-  able&quot;  or  &quot;Remain  in  Line.&quot;  Occasionally  it  would  break  down,  and  the  teller  would  mouth  &quot;Next!&quot;  from  behind  the  thick  partition.  Those  who  read  lips  sometimes  bolted  ahead  of  the  others  in  exasperation,  and  the  line  turned  on  itself,  like  a  dachshund  beginning  a  nap.  To  correct  that,  I  guess,  they  at-  tached  to  the  center  divider  a  large  green  marquee  like  the  paging  board  at  the  Public  Library.  When  a  teller  was  free  the  sign  would  flash  a  yellow  number;  simultaneously  a  small,  iden-  tically  numbered  lantern  next  to  the  teller's  window  would  also  begin  to  flicker.  That  was  the  theory,  I  believe.  In  practice,  a  &quot;7&quot;  would  show  up  on  the  marquee  and,  holding  my  deposit  like  a  runner's  baton,  I  would  sprint  off  to  Window  7,  only  to  find  that  the  lantern  there  was  suddenly  dark;  in-  side,  Teller  7,  hunched  over  some  in-  visible  problem,  could  barely  be  seen.  When  I  returned  in  good  faith  to  the  head  of  the  line,  the  woman  behind  me  pointed  peevishly  at  the  marquee,  which  was  still  showing  a  &quot;7.&quot;  Then  a  &quot;5&quot;  would  appear  as  well,  and  she  shoved  past  me  to  Teller  5,  sighing  loudly  and  rolling  her  eyes  hammily  to  the  guard.  Abashed,  I  tried  Teller  7  once  again,  who,  now  repositioning  the  rubber  spider  next  to  her  name-  plate,  looked  at  me  without  recogni-  tion  and  mimed  &quot;Wait  on  line  for  my  signal,  do  you  moind?&quot;  It  was  like  a  painting  by  Munch,  called  &quot;The  De-  posit.&quot;  DON'T  want  to  sound  overdeli-  cate  or  shrill.  I  am  not  a  crank.  Believe  me,  I  would  sooner  overdraw  than  saythe  ungrateful  things  that  follow.  As  a  rule,  the  class  of  people  my  bank  ostensibly  caters  to-many  by  now  intimates  on  line-does  not  want  any  of  what  is  going  on.  We  do  not  want  to  be  told  that  the  bank  is  crazy  about  us  just  because  we  are  &quot;people&quot;  (what  else  uses  money?).  Other  things  being  equal,  we  would  rather  not  hear  a  studio  orchestra  play  &quot;Don't  Cry  for  Me  Argentina&quot;  while  we  read  on  a  tiny  slip  of  paper  scrawled  by  our  teller  that  our  balance  is  +$3.20.  All  we  want  is  a  quiet,  temperate  zone  in  which  to  regulate  the  ebb  of  our  petit  caches.  If  under  the  new  laws  there  must  be  music  available  on  the  prem-  ises,  let  the  bank  issue  Walkman  sets  at  the  door,  each  with  a  functioning  &quot;Off&quot;  button.  And  let  them  devise  a  further  acoustical  system  that  allows  us  to  speak  incredulous  words  to  our  tellers  without  having  to  force  our  lips  down  into  the  money  slot  to  do  so.  Then  shall  we  tread  the  deep  pile  of  indoor-outdoor  carpeting  with  a  bright  eye  and  a  springy  hoof-and  should  we  ever  prosper  enough  to  where  we  can  afford  to  bank  uptown  and  wear  thongs  with  digitated  socks,  we  shall  not  again  be  moved.  "