 b"I NEVER  expected  to  see  Kato  I  again.  In  fact,  I  hardly  ever  thought  about  him,  but  then  we  seldom  do  think  back  to  the  war  years,  except  when  we  meet  old  friends  who  spent  some  of  that  time  with  us.  And  old  friends  die  off.  No,  after  thirty-  seven  years  I  hardly  gave  Kato  a  thought.  Like  the  sundial,  we  tend  to  mark  only  the  sunny  hours,  and  the  early  months  of  1942  were  not  sunny.  Anything  but.  The  4a6170616eese  had  occupied  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  (was  it  Christmas  Day,  1941?  I  think  so),  and  I  was  staying  there,  scrabbling  for  a  living  for  my  baby  and  myself.  Charles,  her  father,  a  British  Army  officer,  was  in  military  prison  camp,  and  I  had  lied  my  way  out  of  civilian  prison  camp  by  claiming  that  I  and  my  daughter,  [REDACTED],  were  of  Eurasian  blood.  What  helped  to  con-  vince  the  4a6170616eese  was  that  I  had  teamed  up  with  two  Eurasian  sisters,  Aline  and  Dulcie,  both  widowed  in  the  fighting  and  left  with  infants  to  care  for.  When  the  4a6170616eese  Navy  commandeered  my  apartment,  where  we  had  been  living  with  a  number  of  other  refugees,  Aline  and  Dulcie  and  I  simply  moved  into  an  empty  house  around  the  hill,  more  or  less  at  the  same  altitude,  halfway  up  the  peak.  We  stayed  in  the  new  house  quite  a  while  undisturbed,  because  the  roof  had  been  shelled  and  was  in  too  poor  a  condition  to  attract  any  branch  of  the  conquering  forces.  For  three  destitute  refugees,  it  was  quite  a  luxurious  household.  There  was  my  cook,  Ah  King;  two  baby-amahs  for  Aline  and  Dulcie;  and  after  a  few  days  another  baby-amah  for  me-or,  rather,  for  [REDACTED]-brought  in  from  the  streets  by  Ah  King.  Though  I  urged  him  to  find  work  elsewhere,  he  flatly  re-  fused  to  leave  me.  There  we  all  were,  making  out  from  day  to  day,  pool-  ing  money  and  provisions  and  turn-  ing  circumstances  to  our  advantage.  We  had  friends  among  the  Chinese  and  Eurasians,  and  some  of  them  had  enough  provisions  to  lendus  their  surplus.  Once,  4a6170616eese  soldiers  grabbed  Ah  King  off  the  street  and  made  him  do  coolie  work,  carrying  crates  or  something,  but  they  paid  him  in  rice,  and  that  was  fine  for  the  family.  Most  nights,  I  slept  with  my  clothes  on,  because  I  was  sure  that  sometime  soon  I  would  be  summoned  at  mid-  night  to  answer  for  my  lies,  and  I  knew  that  the  4a6170616eese  didn't  give  peoplea  chance  to  dress.  I  need  hardly  add  that  those  were  anxious  times  gen-  erally.  It  was  not  only  my  special  guilty  secret  that  worried  me  (and  the  other  girls,  too,I  am  sure,  though  they  never  said  so),  but  at  any  time  of   day  a  special  so-called  curfew  could  be  visited  on  us;  then  all  movement  in  the  streets  was  forbidden  and  anybody  out-  of-doors  had  to  stop  short  and  kneel  down  where  he  was.  We  guessed  that  at  such  times  some  important  person-  age  was  at  large:  the  4a6170616eese  took  no  chances  with  assassination.  The  cur-  few  was  announced  by  loud,  wailing  sirens,  and  down  everyone  plumped  to  await  the  liberating  sirens'  all-clear,  hoping  it  wouldn't  take  too  long  in  coming.  It  might  take  a  few  minutes  ora  few  hours.  You  can  get  used  to  anything-even  that.  When  it  had  happened  to  me,  I  would  stamp  into  the  house,  dump  my  load  ofprovisions,  and  say  in  disgust,  &quot;MacDonnell  Road,&quot;  or  whatever,  to  indicate  where  I  had  been  trapped,  and  everybody  would  nod.  At  all  times  we  had  to  bow  to  sentries,  wherever  they  stood,  when  we  passed  them  in  the  street.  This,  the  4a6170616eese  explained,  was  a  sign  of  re-  spect  for  the  uniform.  People  who  didn't  bow  ran  the  risk  of  being  slapped,  so  most  of  us  did  it,  the  timid  bowing  very  low,  the  foolhardy  trying  to  get  by  with  a  merenod  of  the  head.  I  went  sort  of  halfway.  Food  was  our  main  preoccupation-  not  only  for  ourselves  but  for  the  prison  camps.  We  all  had  men  there;  Aline  and  Dulcie  had  bosses  in  the  civilian  camp,  and  [REDACTED]'s  father  was  cooped  up  with  the  other  British  offi-  cers.  Rumor  had  it  that  the  prisoners  weren't  getting  enough  food,  and  I  knew  that  Charles  couldn't  be,  be-  cause  he  had  been  wounded  andhad  lost  a  lot  of  blood.  A  couple  of  weeks  after  the  surrender,  the  4a6170616eese  au-  thorities  decreed  that  wom-  en  would  be  permitted  to  carry  victuals  to  the  camps  for  their  men,  as  long  as  they  were  in  sealed  tins  or  bottles,  and  leave  them  at  the  camp  gates.  Quite  a  traffic  grew  up  for  the  pur-  pose,  but  we  had  to  be  care-  ful.  Bringing  too  much  was  discouraged  by  the  guards,  who  ostensibly  pitched  out  the  surplus  but,  it  was  al-  leged,  appropriatedthings  for  their  own  use.  So  pre-  paring  a  good  parcel  called  for  a  nice  sense  of  just  how  much  was  enough  and  not  too  much.  Food  was  hard  to  come  by,  and  searching  " b"it  out  was  the  main  thing  we  did,  but  sometimes  we  managed  to  amass  so  much  that  we  divided  a  parcel  up  and  helped  each  other  to  carry  the  stuff  to  the  various  camps,  sothat  there  would  be  several  donors  andno  parcel  would  seem  unduly  lavish.  Of  course,  com-  munication  with  the  prisoners  was  strictly  forbidden.  Information  percolated.  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  being  out  of  the  war's  main-  stream,  had  been  designated  by  the  4a6170616eese  as  a  place  for  R.  and  R.-a  reward  for  hard  fighting  on  the  active  fronts.  That  explained  why  the  ser-  vicemen  we  saw  did  not  seem  very  busy  most  of  the  time.  They  looked  alike  to  us  except  for  the  Indians,  who  had  been  policemen  in  the  colony  be-  fore  the  war  and  were  now  working  with  the  conquerors.  They  were  de-  tailed  to  guard  duty  at  sensitive  points,  such  as  the  bridges  and  the  ferry  sta-  tions,  and  this  meant  that  they  had  to  search  women.  Aline  was  indignant,  but  she  laughed,  too,  when  a  Sikh  who  had  finished  running  his  hands  over  her  body  in  search  of  grenades  or  re-  volvers  let  her  move  on,  then  called  her  back  and  had  another  go.  It  was  irritating  but  not  alarming,  we  agreed.  I  was  gloomily  certain  that  I  was  in  for  something  worse  as  soon  as  the  officials  got  better  organized  and  had  the  time  to  look  closely  at  my  creden-  tials.  What  would  happen  then?  The  very  least  they  would  do  was  to  put  me  into  the  civilian  camp,  but  it  was  no  good  repining  in  advance.  So,  waiting  for  the  blow  to  fall,  I  went  on  scroung-  ing,  and  sold  thmgs  when  we  could  find  customers,  and  looked,  always,  for  food.  The  big  grocery  stores  and  de-  partment  stores  had  not  reopened,  but  outside  their  doors  and  along  the  pavements  a  brisk  trade  soon  sprang  up,  and  we  could  buy  food  and  shirts  and  socks  and  hair  ornaments;  you  cannot  keep  Chinese  from  doing  busi-  ness,  no  matter  what.  The  stalls  fol-  lowed  the  original  mercantile  pattern:  outside  a  closed  grocery  store  they  sold  food,  and  outside  a  haberdasher's  they  dealt  in  shirts  and  sweaters  and  under-  wear.  Probably  somebody  behind  every  locked  door  was  making  a  bit  on  the  side  by  passing  out  stock  after  dark.  Every  day,  as  I  walked  alongside  those  stalls  with  Aline  and  Dulcie,  our  baskets  on  our  arms,  pricing  and  hag-  gling  and  arguing,  I  expected  to  be  stopped  and  questioned.  Then,  one  day,  it  actually  happened-though  not  exactly  like  that.  When  we  came  home from  shopping,  there  was  a  4a6170616eese  officer  waiting  on  the  porch  for  me  with  a  summons  to  come  and  talk  to  his  superior.  I  see  myself  now,  hurry-  ing  along  behind  him  down  to  the  town,  imagining  every  horror  in  the  world.  The  official  who  had  sentfor  me  kept  me  waiting  outside  his  office  for  about  half  an  hour,  and  when  I  came  in  he  was  working  his  way  down  a  pile  of  dog-eared  papers,  too  tired  to  be  interested.  He  asked  a  number  of  questions,  and  I  replied  with  the  old  stubborn  lies,  expecting  each  speech  to  be  my  last,  but  in  the  end  I  was  dis-  missed  and  sent  home.  I  heard  no  more  from  him.  Still,  I  had  been  badly  scared,  and  though  it  is  more  than  for-  ty-one  years  since  it  happened,  I  can  remember  the  feeling.  There  are  two  kinds  of  memory.  One  comes  back  all  prettied  up,  like  a  picture  painted  in  the  past.  The  other  is  plain  raw  reproduc-  tion  at  first  hand.  We  cannot  call  back  a  reproduction  of  pain  or  taste  or  smell,  but  fear  can  be  evoked  afresh  each  time.  I  felt  fear  in  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  every  time  4a6170616eese  came  up  the  pathway  to  our  door,  though  it  usually  turned  out  that  they  were  only  looking  for  likely  houses  to  use  for  offices.  Searchers  came  from  the  Army  and  the  Navy  (we  could  never  tell  which  was  which),  and  even  from  certain  organizations  of  civilians  who,  like  everyone  else,  needed  office  space.  Each  time  visitors  arrived,  Ah  King,  who  showed  them  through  the  rooms,  tactfully  empha-  sized  the  disrepair  of  the  house:  the  broken  windows,  the  shell  holes  in  the  roof,  the  puddles  on  the  floor  around  which  our  mattresses  were  disposed,  the  leaky  plumbing.  At  the  end  of  the  tour,  the  visitors  turned  up  their  noses  and  went  away:  after  all,  there  were  many  empty  houses,  now  that  the  Europeans  had  been  stowed  in  prison  camps.  THEN,  one  morning,  we  had  visi-  tors  of  a  different  type.  A  jeep  drove  up,  and  two  men  in  uniform  got  " b"out  and  came  to  the  frontdoor.  One  was  tall  for  a  4a6170616eese,  and  thin,  with  an  aquiline  nose  and  a  small  mustache.  He  wore  a  sword,  which  meant  he  was  some  kind  of  officer.  The  other  was  short  and  heavyset,  with  a  good-tem-  pered  face.  He  treated  the  tall  man  with  a  puzzled  respect,  and  when  I  think  of  him  now  it  is  as  Sancho  Panza.  The  officer,  speaking  good  En-  glish,  called  me  by  name,  and  my  heart  plummeted.  I  suspected-correctly,  as  it  happened-that  these  men  belonged  to  the  kempeitai,  or  gendarmes,  the  special  police,  who  were  dreaded  not  only  by  ordinary  4a6170616eese  citizens  but  by  the  other  armed  services.  However,  it  was  nogood  going  to  pieces.  I  in-  vited  them  to  sit  down  and  offered  them  tea,  and  presented  Dulcie  and  Aline,  and  we  made  polite  small  talk.  The  officer  was  a  lieutenant,  we  learned,  whereas  Sancho  was  really  Sergeant  Suzuki.  Because  4a6170616eese  were  reputed  to  like  small  children,  we  brought  out  ours  and  presented  them,  too.  The  sergeant  snapped  his  fingers  at  Dulcie's  small  boy  and  clicked  his  tongue,  as  you  would  at  a  dog,  butthe  officer  was  better  at  playing  with  ba-  bies.  It  seemed  to  us  that  he  really  enjoyed  it.  So  we  chatted,  and  the  moments  passed,  and  there  was  no  sudden  jar  when  the  lieutenant  asked  us  politely  how  we  were  managing  to  live.  I  suppose  it  was  a  loaded  question,  but  there  was  something  disarming  about  him;  we  all  felt  it.  We  told  him  how  we  managed,  which  we  admit-  ted  was  not  very  well.  We  told  him  how  I  was  giving  English  lessons  to  a  4a6170616eese  newspaperman  who  lived  down  the  street.  It  didn't  pay  well,  of  course,  but  it  was  something-&quot;some-  thing  coming  in,&quot;  to  use  one  of  Aline's  favorite  phrases.  Aline  and  Dulcie  baked  bread  and  cookies  and  sold  a  few  here  and  there.  &quot;But  there's  really  nothing  coming  ##,&quot;  Aline  said  to  the  lieutenant  worriedly,  as  if  the  state  of  affairs  in  which  we  were  living  were  permanent.  Of  course,  both  girls  had  worked  at  regular  daily  jobs  in  mercantile  houses  before  the  war,  and  they  were  accustomed  to  salary  pay-  ments  on  Friday  afternoon.  The  fact  was  that,  in  spite  of  every-  thing,  we  were  hungry  all  the  time-  not  violently,  not  desperately,  but  hun-  gry.  It  was  there,  an  underlying  gnawing.  We  didn't  admit  this  to  the  lieutenant,  but  he  probably  guessed.  After  all,  our  condition  was  typical  of  [REDACTED]  civilians'.  He  said,  &quot;When everything  settles  down,  all  the  busi-  ness  houses  will  open  again  and  you  can  go  back  to  your  old  jobs.  We  are  all  working  together  for  the  Co-Pros-  perity  Sphere,  aren't  we?  When  we  have  achieved  it,  things  will  be  better  than  they  were  under  the  British.&quot;  Aline  and  Dulcie  mumbled  some-  thing  politely  noncommittal,  but  of  course  they  could  hardly  agree.  Would  the  Co-Prosperity  Sphere  bring  back  their  husbands?  Did  the  lieutenant  be-  lieve  all  that  nonsense  himself?  I  held  my  breath  for  fear  Aline's  outspoken  tendencies  might  lead  her  to  say  some-  thing  reckless,  but  the  lieutenant  was  talking  again.  &quot;In  the  meantime,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;Sergeant  Suzuki  here  can  get  supplies,  because  he  works  in  the-  what  do  you  call  it'-the  commissary.  He  finds  such  things  in  the  stockrooms  and  thebig  stores,  and  he  buys  for  the  Army  and  Navy  from  fishermen  and  farmers  and  from  thebig  dairy,  too.  So  what  do  you  need?&quot;  He  had  addressed  his  question  to  Aline,  rightly  assuming  that  she  was  the  most  practical.  I  remember  the  hush  that  fell  over  us  all  as  Aline  thought  things  over,  and  I  remember, too,  that  her  mouth,  often  swollen  in  the  morning  from  crying  at  night,  trembled  before  she  answered.  Yet  her  words  came  clearly.  &quot;Milk  for  the  ba-  bies,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;and  flour,  and  rice,  and  meat,  of  course,  or  fish,  and  vege-  tables  of  some  kind.&quot;  She  paused,  in-  credulous  that  the  lieutenant  was  busily  writing  it  down.  &quot;Sugar,&quot;  she  continued  in  determined  tones,  &quot;and  cooking  oil  .  ..&quot;  Her  voice  trailed  off.  &quot;'The  vegetables  are  easy,&quot;  said  the  lieutenant.  &quot;The  oil  may  take  a  little  more  time,  but  it  is  all  possible.  Yes,  it  is  possible.&quot;  He  turned  to  Sergeant  Suzuki  and  spoke  4a6170616eese,  and  the  sergeant  nodded  in  a  matter-of-fact  way.  Then  both  men  bowed.  From  the  front  door  we  watched  them  as  they  went  down  the  steps  and  into  the  jeep  and  off  down  the  road.  I  remember  that  it  was  still  morn-  ing,  and  that  Aline  and  I,  rather  than  waste  time  in  idle  dreaming,  walked  down  into  town  to  see  what  was  to  be  had,  leaving  Dulcie  and  the  amahs  to  cope  with  the  babies  and  guard  the  house  with  Ah  King.  On  the  way,  of  course,  we  chattered  about  the  strange  visitors.  Why  had  they  come  to  seeus?  What  did  they  want'  Probably,  we  agreed,  it  was  the  gendarmes'  way  of  getting  a  look  at  the  household  before  springing  the  trap  and  hauling  me  in  for  more  questioning,  but  somehow  I  couldn't  believe  I  was  important  enough  for  such  a  big  effort.  Did  the  lieutenant  really  think  I  was  Eur-  asian?  Nothing  he  said  implied  that  he  doubted  it,  but  he  was  far  from  stupid.  Clearly,  there  was  a  sword  hanging  over  my  head,  and  all  I  could  do  was  pretend  it  wasn't  there.  As  for  the  rest,  we  hardly  dared  speculate  on  whether  he  could  actually  make  good  " b"his  promise  of  food.  We  did  speculate  on  his  name,  which  was  difficult  to  pronounce.  In  the  end  we  decided  to  call  him  &quot;Kato,&quot;  which  sounded  a  little  like  the  first  two  syllables.  There  was  a  set  routine  to  our  visits  downtown,  where  we  made  the  rounds  of  those  Chinese  and  Macanese  among  our  friends  who  still  had  places  to  go  to-offices  or  sidewalk  stalls.  We  would  talk  at  length  with  them,  ex-  changing,  and  inevitably  enlarging  on,  the  latest  rumors.  Seldom  did  we  get  any  useful  information,  but  it  helped  to  hear  how  well  our  side  was  alleged  to  be  doing  in  other  parts  of  the  world.  Apart  from  these  rumors,  we  picked  up  pointers  sometimes  on  what  kind  of  provisions  were  being  sold  on  such-and-such  a  road:  pow-  dered  milk,  for  which  we  were  always  in  search,  or  oranges-you  never  knew.  None  of  it  helped  much,  but  the  truth  was  that  Aline  and  I  could  not  bear  to  stay  at  home  waiting.  For  what'  We  didn't  know.  Catastrophe,  perhaps-we  could  imagine  nothing  less.  But,  whatever  we  expected,  we  had  to  get  out  of  the  house  and  walk.  We  finally  climbed  the  hill  again  and  came  home.  T  was  about  five  o'clock  when  Kato  and  Suzuki  came  back,  this  time  in  a  truck,  which,  like  the  jeep,  had  obvi-  ously  been  taken  over  from  the  British  forces.  They  brought  with  them  two  soldiers  and  boxes,  parcels,  a  barrel,  and  a  big  can  of  powdered  milk.  The  soldiers  carried  the  stuff  in  Suzuki's  wake  to  the  kitchen,  where  Ah  King,  after  staring  openmouthed  for  a  mo-  ment,  shook  himself  and  directed  them  where  to  set  it  down.  We  were  all  standing  on  the  porch,  and  I  knew  that  I  must  not-repeat  not-ex-  change  glances  with  Aline,  however  exultant  we  might  feel.  Once,  long  ago,  when  I  was  about  nine,  an  aunt  had  taken  me,  along  with  my  older  sister,  Helen,  into  the  corner  drug-  store.  There  was  no  doubt  that  she  intended  to  buy  us  ice-cream  sodas,  because  she  was  that  kind  of  aunt.  Jubilant,  I  nudged  Helen  in  the  ribs  and  grinned  at  her  just  as  Aunt  Betty  turned  and  caught  the  exchange.  She  said  nothing;  why  should  she?  We  got  the  ice-cream  sodas,  but  Helen  was  angry.  &quot;She  sew  you!&quot;  she  whispered.  I  was  downcast,  because  she  was  right:  I  had  let  down  the  side  and  humiliated  both  of  us.  On  a  dilapidated  porch  in  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  I  avoided  Aline's  eyes,  because  it  would  never  do  for  Kato  to  catch  us  showing  genuine  joy  over  food,  no  matter  how  we  felt.  However,  at  his  suggestion  we  told  Ah  King  to  immediately  start  cooking  some  of  the  provisions.  Kato  said  he  and  Suzuki  would  be  back  in  time  to  helpus  eat.  That  evening,  we  had  a  kind  of  party.  Ah  King,  with  no  Western  pride  to  maintain,  beamed  whenever  he  brought  in  a  fresh  dish,  and  the  " b"amahs  stood  on  the  sidelines  with  the  children,  their  stomachs  appeased,  theirfaces  radiant.  I,  too,  was  full  of  well-being,  worries  laidto  rest.  I  even  stopped  wondering  what  it  was  all  about,  what  Kato  really  wanted,  what  lay  ahead.  The  following  weeks  passed  in  much  the  same  way.  Though  Kato  and  Suzuki  didn't  come  every  day,  when  they  did  come  they  usually  brought  enough  food  to  tide  us  over.  Sometimes,  when  they  came  to  meals,  they  were  accompanied  by  other  men  -Kato's  friends,  I  assumed-who  took  it  for  granted  that  we  three  would  maintain  adining  room  for  their  convenience.  Of  course,  that  was  how  4a6170616eese  entertained  in  their  own  country:  dining  in  restaurants  where  they  knew  the  women  who  ran  the  places.  We  were  not  exactly  geisha,  but  it  didn't  make  any  difference.  Sometimes  a  dinner  was  quite  formal,  if  Kato  brought  dignitaries  to  share  it,  and  thenhe  was  likely  to  lecture  us  on  the  Co-Prosperity  Sphere  in  Asia,  while  we  tried  to  keep  our  eyes  from  glazing  over.  At  such  times,  it  helped  me  to  concentrate  secretly  on  some-  thing  a  French  acquaintance  had  pointed  out  to  me-that  a  likely  acro-  nym  for  the  slogan  was  COPROS.  But  it  would  never  do  to  repeat  the  joke  to  the  guests,  no  matter  how  much  I  was  tempted-from  which  it  can  beseen  that  the  more  I  had  to  eat  the  cockier  I  became.  The  same  was  true  of  Aline  and  Dulcie,  but  we  were  all  polite  to  those  men  who  sat  around  our  table.  Itried  (and  so,  I  am  sure,  did  the  others)  to  maintain  dignity  of  a  sort.  One  evening,  at  a  dinner  for  Kato's  friends,  I  ventured  some  small  but  irreverent  pleasantry,  which  Kato  translated  for  the  others.  They  looked  startled,  and  I  regretted  having  done  it,  but  he  went  on  talking,  clearly  smoothing  it  over.  Then  he  turned  to  me.  &quot;I  was  explaining  that  you  are  a  very  witty  and  unusual  okwsen,&quot;  he  said,  meaning  a  lady,  &quot;and  that  in  your  own  country  you  teach  school.  Now  they  understand  better.&quot;  Indeed,  they  were  laughing  in  a  puzzled  but  relieved  way.  During  his  attempts  to  put  across  the  message  of  world  peace  and  a  free,  prosperous  Asia,  Kato  worked  hard,  and  sometimes  came  up  with  plans  to further  our  education.  Once,  we  were  hustled  into  the  jeep  and  taken  to  a  pep  meeting  for  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]'s  young  Chinese.  The  guests  drank  tea,  ate  sandwiches  (lots  of  them),  and  lis-  tened  with  wide-eyed  solemnity  to  Kato  extollingthe  virtuesof  4a6170616e  and  COPROS.  Aline  was  so  indignant  that  I  was  afraid  she  would  spoil  everything,  and  I  scolded  her  whenwe  got  home.  &quot;You  don't  have  to  agree  with  what  he  says,&quot;  I  argued.  &quot;Do  you  think  those  kids  agreed?  Of  course  not.  But  they  didn't  boo  the  speakers,  either.  What  you  need  is  self-control.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  care,&quot;  said  Aline.  &quot;I  felt  physically  sick.&quot;  &quot;Just  the  same,  we're  eating  Japa-  nese  rice.  We  have  to,  don't  we?&quot;  &quot;I  suppose  we  do,&quot;  said  Aline,  and  subsided.  However,  even  my  equanimity  was  threatened  a  little  later,  when  one  eve-  ning  Kato  ordered  us  all  out  for  a  visit  to  the  Parisian  Grill.  Before  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  the  Grill  had  been  a  really  good  restaurant,  and  the  4a6170616eese,  al-  ways  on  the  lookout  for  fleshpots,  took  it  over  with  great  enthusiasm.  We  had  not  heard  of  it  since  the  surrender  and  were  not  prepared  to  find  it  open,  let  alone  changed  into  anight  club:  most  of  our  acquaintances  were  hardly  au  courant  with  the  local  social  world.  But  there  it  was,  spread  out  before  us,  as  we  entered  the  once  familiar  doors.  A  sketchy  band  played  on  a  new  plat-  form,  accompanying  a  girl  who  was  singing  &quot;Come  Back  to  Sorrento.&quot;  Tables  were  surrounded  by  uniformed  4a6170616eese  and  local  girls.  (The  singer  was  a  Macanese  girl  who  used  to  work  in  her  office,  said  Dulcie.)  Kato  and  Suzuki  got  a  good  table  down  front  and  ordered  for  the  lot  of  us,  ordering  no  strong  drinks:  I  never  knew  Kato  to  drink  anything  but  tea  or  orange  juice.  Aline  and  Dulcie  and  I  looked  aroundand  recognized  many  of  the  girls,  biding  their  chance  to  sing  or  waiting  on  table.  Suddenly  Kato  decided  that  I,  too,  should  get  up  there  on  the  platform  and  give  the  company  a  song.  I  can't  sing.  I  said  so,  but  that  made  no  differ-  ence.  Kato  insisted.  &quot;You  can  do  it,  Mickey,&quot;  he  said,  addressing  me  by  my  nickname,  as  he  always  did.  He  gave  orders  to  the  band,  and  I  went  up  on  the  platform-I  must  have,  though  I  don't  remember  getting  there.  I  do  recall  how  I  said  to  myself  that  it  didn't  matter,  because  (a)  the  4a6170616eese  wouldn't  know  the  difference  between  " b"good  singing  and  bad,  and  (b)  it  wasn't  really  happening  anyway.  So  I  opened  my  mouth  and,  unaccompanied  by  the  orchestra,  because  they  didn't  know  the  tune,  I  sang,  or  talked,  &quot;St.  Louis  Blues.&quot;  The  audience  listened  po-  litely,  uncomprehend-  ingly,  and  when  I  closed  my  mouth  gave  a  round  of  desultory  ap-  plause.  I  came  back  to  our  table  without  stum-  bling.  After  all,  it  wasn't  really  happen-  ing.  C  ou  rir  of  months  after  our  tripto  the  Parisian  Grill,  Kato  disappeared  into  the  limbo  whence  he  had  come.  He  didn't  say  goodbye;  he  just  dis-  appeared.  Some  time  earlier,  he  had  given  me  a  photograph  of  himself,  a  genuine  cabinet  portrait  in  a  frame,  on  which  he  had  written  &quot;Best  regards&quot;  in  4a6170616eese  characters,  and  signed  his  name,  with  a  flourish,  in  English.  After  his  departure,  it  came  in  very  handy  as  a  substitute  for  his  actual  presence,  when  4a6170616eese  on  the  prow!  for  housing  dropped  in.  One  look  at  the  gendarme's  photo,  with  its  legend,  and  they  scooted.  But  the  pho-  tograph,  useful  as  it  was,  wasn't  food,  and  we  missed  Kato's  visits.  We  even  missed  Suzuki,  who  had  vanished,  too;  at  least,  we  never  saw  him  again.  What  had  happened  to  them?  It  was  impossible  to  ask  anyone:  we  didn't  know  those  friends  who  had  come  to  dinner,  or  where  they  had  their  offices.  However,  Kato's  departure  was  not  the  calamity  it  would  have  been  some  weeks  earlier,  because  in  its  eccentric  way  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  was  functioning  once  more,  an  occupied  city  but  not  a  shell-  shocked  one.  We  could  now  barter  or  sell  lots  of  the  things  we  had  salvaged  -furniture  and  clothing.  Everything  at  that  time  had  value.  Citizens  of  neutral  countries  (&quot;third-party  na-  tionals&quot;)  became  evident,  where  ear-  lier  they  had  remained  cautiously  hid-  den.  A  Persian  friend  of  the  girls,  for  example,  had  a  special  permit  to  buy  rice,  and  sometimes  he  spared  us  some,  but  the  most  important  contact  I  had  was  a  Frenchman  who  had  charge  of  a   colonial  bank.  Because  the  4a6170616eese  gave  most  French  residents  the  benefit  of  the  doubt  and  identified  them  with  the  Vichy  government,  no  matter  what  their  genuine  political  beliefs,  Jacques,  as  an  ally  of  the  Axis,  was  allowed  to  get  his  hands  on  cash  in  the  bank  and  do  with  it  what  he  liked,  which  meant  lending  it  to  his  friends.  I  borrowed  a  lot  from  Jacques,  and  it  was  a  great  relief  to  the  household.  In  short,  we  settled  down,  but  the  memory  of  Kato  lingered  for  a  while,  like  a  ghost.  &quot;I  wonder  what  happened  to  him,&quot;  said  Aline,  not  for  the  first  time.  She  had  a  romantic  theory  that  he  had  fallen  in  love  with  some  singsong  girl  and  gone  away  with  her;  before  he  disappeared,  she  had  seen  him  once  with  a  pretty  woman.  &quot;He  might  have,  at  that,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It  would  be  odd  if  he  didn't  have  a  girlfriend  somewhere.  Didn't  he  tell  us  he's  been  married?&quot;  ''Yes,  but  divorced  now,'  Dulcie.  That  was  the  second-to-last  time  we  discussed  Kato.  We  had  a  lot  of  other  things  on  our  minds-those  everlasting  ways  and  means  of  sur-  vival,  an  occasional  ukase  from  the  authorities  on  such  subjects  as  curfew  and  cholera  shots,  the  weekly  trips  to  the  prison  camps,  the  parcels.  4a6170616eese  came  and  went;  we  were  even  begin-  ning  to  tell  them  apart.  My  student  of English  was  transferred,  which  was  not  such  a  hardship  now,  because  of  Jacques's  bank.  Suddenly,  Aline  announced  that  she  hadhad  enough  of  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  and  could  see  no  reason  to  stay  on.  She  would  go  into  the  interior.  Dulcie,  less  adventurous,  would  move  to  Kowloon  and  keep  an  eye  on  the  relatives  there,  but  Aline  meant  to  take  her  little  girl  and  go  to  Chungking,  or,  as  we  called  it,  Free  4368696e61.  It  was  a  feasible  project  now  that  things  were  so  quiet.  Every  day,  a  number  of  Asians  and  third-  party  nationals  took  the  boat  that  sailed  to  the  little  French  enclave  of  Ewangchowwan,  in  what  we  called  Indo-4368696e61,  where  they  departed  un-  hampered,  though  on  foot,  for  non-  occupied  regions,  usually  in  groups,  for  safety  from  bandits.  Danger  was  pretty  far  from  everybody's  thoughts  by  thattime.  In  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  the  streets  were  quiet.  The  stores  had  re-  opened  and  were  thronged  with  Japa-  nese  wives  and  children  who  had  been  brought  over.  Things  felt  secure;  for  months  I  had  not  gone  to  bed  in  my  clothes.  No,  there  was  little  cause  for  alarm  on  Aline's  account,  though  I  hated  to  lose  her  company,  and  Dulcie's.  With  Ah  King  and  my  amah,  I  wouldn't  be  alone.  So  Aline  went  ahead  and  made  her  arrange-  ments,  buying  a  ticket  for  the  boat  and  packing  so  many  bundles  and  bags  and     " b"boxes  that  I  teased  her;  how  did  she  intend,  I  asked,  to  travel  with  all  that  stuff?  She  replied  that  there  would  be  porters  everywhere:  in  4368696e61,  there  were  always  porters.  One  could  not  be  sure  of  finding  an  amah,  but  the  baby,  now  a  big,  healthy  toddler,  would  travel  on  Aline's  back  in  akind  of  super  papoose  case.  Early  on  the  morning  of  Aline's  departure,  Jacques,  Dulcie,  and  I  went  with  her  to  the  dock  where  the  Kwangchowwan  steamer  waited,  and  there  any  sense  of  security  I  had  built  up  during  recent  months  was  abruptly  shattered,  for  4a6170616eese  guards  were  stationed  all  along  the  wooden  pier,  stubby  and  motionless  and  unshaven,  holding  their  bayonetted  rifles  bolt  up-  right,  just  as  they  had  stood  on  the  streets  earlier  in  the  occupation.  We,  Aline's  friends,  couldn't  go  with  her  up  to  the  gangplank,  but  were  sternly  halted  before  we  set  foot  on  the  pier,  so  Aline  had  to  carry  all  her  belongings  alone,  past  the  little  automatons.  She  couldn't  carry  them  all  at  once,  of  course,  so  she  hurried  back  and  forth,  under  hostile  eyes,  to  fetch  more  and  yet  more.  Each  time  she  passed  a  guard,  she  had  to  bow  deeply.  The  ceremony  had  of  late  almost  slipped  out  of  daily  life,  because  there  weren't  many  guards  in  the  city  anymore.  Aline  had  always  hated  to  bow,  and  it  seemed  too  bad  that  she  must  go  through  with  it  so  many  times  now,  on  the  brink  of  escape.  But  worse  fol-  lowed.  The  last  guard,  beside  the  steamer,  made  her  open  all  her  bags  and  suitcases  so  that  he  could  see  what  was  in  them,  and  with  his  bayonet  he  prodded  and  scattered  her  clothes  and  household  goods  over  the  pier's  dirty  wooden  boards-the  baby's  clean  smocks  and  diapers,  her  own  bits  and  pieces  of  underwear,  kitchen  uten-  sils,  toys,  bed  linen:  all  the  things  she  had  so  carefully  saved  up,  laun-  dered,  and  packed  for  the  trip.  Then,  with  a  surly  nod,  he  returned  to  his  post,  and  she  was  free  to  pick  up  her  things  and  repack  them.  She  was  a  good  distance  from  us,  but  we  could  see  her  crying  with  rage  and  humilia-  tion  as  she  gathered  up  her  possessions.  I  remember  the  dark,  thundery  sky,  the  damp  wooden  planks,  the  rigid,  immovable  guards,  and  Aline  out  there  stooping  over  her  task,  balanc-  ing  the  heavy  baby  on  her  back  and  sobbing.  &quot;Kato,&quot;  I  said  under  my  breath,  &quot;where  are  you  now?&quot;  &quot;No,  really,  it  is  a  shame.  A  shame,&quot;  Jacques  kept  muttering.  On  the  way  home,  we  were  very  quiet,  and  then  Dulcie  said,  &quot;If  Kato  had  been  here,  it  wouldn'thavehap-  pened.&quot;  N  the  weeks  after  Aline  left,  Dulcie  moved  to  Kowloon,  and  the  rest  of  us-Ah  King,  and  [REDACTED]  and  her  amah,  and  I-lived  quietly  on  Jacques's  money,  the  worst  of  our  immediate  worries  over.  Of  course,  we  had  the  end  of  the  occupation  to  dread,  when  there  would  no  doubt  be  more  bombs  and  more  fighting,  but  we  had  learned  not  to  borrow  trouble,  and  as  it  turned  out  that  end  never  happened  for  Car-  ola  and  me.  I  had  various  lodgers  from  time  to  time-there  was  a  lot  of  room  now.  Here  and  there,  now  and  then,  familiar  faces  disappeared,  and  I  knew     that  those  people  had  taken  the  Kwangchowwan  route.  Then,  one  day,  there  came  an  offi-  cial  letter,  delivered  by  hand,  sum-  moning  me  to  the  Department  of  For-  eign  Affairs,  and  I  went  there,  with  the  usual  fear  and  trembling,  to  learn  that  the  4a6170616eese  had  decided  at  last  that  I  was  not  Eurasian  but  a  prisoner  of  war.  This  meant,  an  official  ex-  plained,  that  I  would  be  put  aboard  the  next  exchange  ship.  There  had  al-  ready  been  one,  he  said,  bringing  back  4a6170616eese  who  had  been  detained  and  put  into  camps  in  the  United  [REDACTED]  and  taking  away  American  prisoners  in  their  place.  The  official  told  me  that  I  would  be  informed  when  the  ship  was  to  call  in.  I  was  not  as  happy  about  it  as  one  might  expect.  Who  would  carry  food  to  Charles  and  the  other  prisoners,  I  asked.  He  would  see  to  it,  Jacques  promised,  with  the  help  of  another  French  friend.  Both  men  urged  me  to  take  this  chance  for  the  sake  of  [REDACTED].  The  4a6170616eese  in  charge  of  prisoners  of  war  agreed  to  allow  me  to  have  a  few  minutes'  conversation  with  her  father.  I  suppose  that  in  the  past  two  years  the  4a6170616eese,  too,  had  settled  down.  Charles  told  me  emphatically  that  I  " b"must  go.  So  there  it  was,  and  in  the  days  that  followed  I  was  busier  than  I  had  been  in  months.  Possessions  had  to  be  selected,  papers  signed,  Ah  King  provided  for,  Jacques  consulted.  (After  the  war-a  long  time  after-I  heard  that  on  the  very  eve  of  deliverance,  two  years  later,  Jacques,  always  a  ner-  vous  man,  decided  that  his  bank  was  to  be  closed  down  and  he  killed  himself.)  The  ship  arrived  in  [REDACTED]  at  last,  [REDACTED]  and  I  went  aboard,  and  there  was  a  heartrending  scene  with  [REDACTED]'s  amah,  who  ran  along  the  shore  as  long  as  we  steamed  close  enough  to  land  to  be  seen.  &quot;Goodbye,&quot;  &quot;Goodbye,&quot;  [REDACTED]  and  I  called,  in  tears,  and  it  was  some  weeks  before  New  York  put  it  all  out  of  our  heads.  As  it  happened,  ours  was  the  last  ex-  change  ship  to  leave  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED].  HE  war  ended.  Charles  came  back,  we  went  to  live  in  En-  gland,  and  years  passed.  [REDACTED]  grew  up  and  married.  If  I  ever  thought  about  Kato,  it  was  seldom-only  when  Aline  visited  [REDACTED],  and  that  wasn't  often,  because  she  had  married  again  and  gone  to  live  in  [REDACTED],  a  long  way  off.  Let's  see,  it  was  thirty-seven  years  and  a  bit  more  since  my  repatriation.  By  that  time,  I  was  living  in  New  York  again  and  had  just  come  back  from  a  month  in  the  Far  East-not  4a6170616e,  but  that  doesn't  mean  I  was  avoiding  the  country;  I'd  been  there  several  times  on  writing  jobs  since  the  war.  It  would  be  false  to  say  that  while  I  was  there  I  thought  about  the  gen-  darme  of  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  but  I  had  long  since  got  over  feeling  sensitive  about  being  among  4a6170616eese  people.  Thirty-  seven  years,  after  all.  It  was  Decem-  ber,  and  the  day  I  returned  to  my  office  I  arrived  at  my  desk  to  find  several  urgent  messages  asking  me  to  call  an  out-of-town  number,  with  no  explana-  tion.  I  was  curious  and  did  so.  &quot;Oh,  yes,&quot;  said  a  Midwestern  male  voice.  &quot;I'm  certainly  glad  you  got  back  in  time,  because  I  promised  your  old  friend  Kato  I  would  help  him  get  in  touch  with  you.&quot;  &quot;Kato?&quot;  &quot;Yes.  He's  in  New  York,  and  he's  got  to  go  back  almost  immediately  to  4a6170616e,  but  he  put  off  leaving  when  he  heard  you  were  getting  in  today.  I  guess  he's  going  tomorrow,  though.  He's  quite  a  guy,  isn't  he?  I've  known  him  since  I  was  with  the  occupation  forces,  but  that's  another  story.  He'd  like  you  to  know  he's  at  the  [REDACTED],  so  will  you  please  call  him  right  away?&quot;  Kato!  Naturally,  I  telephoned,  and  there  he  was  in  the  hotel:I  recognized  that  high-pitched,  rapid  delivery,  but  he  seemed  to  find  it  harder  than  in  the  old  days  to  find  his  words.  &quot;Oh,  I  have  forgotten  my  En-  glish,&quot;  he  said,  laughing.  &quot;How  can  I  get  over  there  to  your  office?&quot;  I  started  to  explain,  but  clearly  he  didn't  understand  what  I  was  saying.  So  I  told  him  to  wait  there  and  I'd  be  right  over.  But  then,  going  up  in  the  [REDACTED]  elevator,  I  had  second  thoughts.  While  it's  not  unheard  of  to  see  someone  again  after  a  long  time,  in  the  meantime  there  has  usually  been  at  least  a  little  communication,  even  if  it's  only  a  Christmas  card.  When  you  came  right  down  to  it,  from  the  very  beginning  my  acquaintance  with  Kato  had  been  extraordinary.  The  whole  thing  was  outside  ordinary  experi-  " b"ence.  Was  I  actually  in  this  elevator,  in  a  New  York  hotel,  on  my  way  to  meet  him?  Had  I  ever  met  him?  Who  was  he,  and  who,  if  it  came  to  that,  was  I?'  Before  I  quite  reached  the  point  of  dissolution,  the  elevator  arrived  and  I  was  in  the  hall  meeting  a  man  I  might  never  have  known-older  (like  me),  smaller  than  I  recalled,  but  recogniz-  able  because  of  the  little  mustache  he  still  wore.  As  we  shookhands  we  both  laughed  with  a  polite  4a6170616eese  giggle,  and  then  the  two  of  us  went  into  his  room  and  sat  on  the  sofa.  I  spoke  first:  &quot;What  happened  to  you?  You  just  dropped  out  of  sight.&quot;  Answering  my  question  was  not  easy  for  him.  It  was  true  that  he  had  forgotten  his  English,  though  as  he  talked  I  could  hear  it  slowly  coming  He  says  back.  Besides,  he  had  to  pick  and  choose  what  he  told  me,  because  our  memories  ran  along  such  different  lines,  and  the  only  facts  that  made  sense  to  both  of  us  were  fewand  scat-  tered.  But  he  did  say,  right  away,  &quot;Well,  I  went  to  prison,  as  you  said  I  would.&quot;  Had  I?'  Very  probably.  It  sounded  like  me,  but  I  didn't  remember.  He  continued,  &quot;I  went  to  4368696e61  to  get  back  into  the  war.  I  was  fighting  there.&quot;  I  recalled  that  he  had  been  fluent  in  4368696e61ese-unusual  in  a  4a6170616eese,  or,  for  that  matter,  in  most  people.  It's  a  tough  language.  &quot;I  was  fighting  in  the  street,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;and  I  shot  a  Chinese  civilian,  and  thought  I  had  killed  him.  That was  a  mistake.  I  was  about  to  leave  him  there  in  the  street  when  he  shot  me  in  the  ankle;  I  fell  and  couldn't  get  away.  They  put  me  in  prison.  My  cell  had  a  floor  of-what  is  it?'-a  wooden  floor,  made  of  ..  .&quot;  His  hands  sketched  lines.  &quot;Yes,  boards.  When  I  was  bet-  ter,  I  went  under  that  floor,  and  the  Chinese  thought  I  had  managed  to  escape.  The  guard  went  to  tell  the  others,  and  while  he  was  away  I  got  out  and  then  I  did  escape.&quot;  &quot;Just  like  you,&quot;  I  said.  Satisfied,  he  resumed  his  story.  He  had  made  his  way  to  a  temple  in  the  city,  &quot;very  old  and  full  of  old  monks,  where  they  let  me  hide  for  the  rest  of  the  war.&quot;  Because  he  had  to  stay  in  the  mon-  astery  for  two  and  a  half  years,  inevi-  tably  he  learned  the  monks'  daily  rou-  tine  and  their  surroundings.  None  of  it,  probably,  was  strange  to  him:  Bud-  dhism  is  strong  in  4a6170616e-much  stronger  than  it  was  in  pre-Revolu-  tionary  4368696e61.  When  Kato  was  not  praying  with  the  monks,  he  read  an-  cient  books  in  the  temple  library,  and  it  was  there  that  he  encountered  knowledge  that  had  made  a  dramatic  change  in  his  life.  He  did  his  best  to  explain  his  discovery  to  me.  It  was  for  this,  I  gathered,  that  he  had  been  ea-  ger  to  see  me  again:  to  give  me  the  message,  too.  He  could  never  talk  about  it,  I  was  to  discover,  without  a  pencil  and  a  piece  of  paper  in  his  hands.  In  the  hotel  room,  he  tried  hard  to  tell  me  about  it-it  was  all  crystal  clear  to  him-and  I  tried  hard  to  receive  it  and  understand,  but  it  was  never  crystal  clear  to  me,  though  now  and  then  the  fog  lifted  a  little.  &quot;Look  at  this,&quot;  he  said  eagerly.  He  drew  on  his  paper  a  fat  oval,  andon  the  arc  at  one  end  he  drew  a  loop.  He  stuck  two  eyes  in  this  loop.  &quot;The  head,&quot;  he  explained.  Opposite  it,  on  the  other  end,  he  executed  a  swirl.  &quot;Tail,&quot;  he  said  briefly.  And  then,  along  the  edges  on  either  side,  he  put  two  loops  each,  for  legs.  &quot;This  is  the  tortoise,&quot;  said  Kato  solemnly,  &quot;and-look-here  arethe  lines  on  his  shell.&quot;  He  divided  the  oval  by  sketching  two  vertical  and  two  hor-  izontal  lines  that  cut  it  into  nine  com-  partments.  The  drawing  did  look  re-  markably  like  a  tortoise,  I  admitted.  Under  the  animal's  head,  he  labelled  the  top  center  compartment  with  the  figure  9,  and  he  followed  this  with  other  numbers:  2,  7,  and  6  went  down  the  right-hand  side;  1  was  at  the  bot-  tom  opposite  9;  and  8,  3,  and  4  went  " b" up  the  left-hand  side.  He  labelled  the  middle  compartment  5.  &quot;Now,&quot;  said  Kato,  like  a  teacher,  &quot;add  the  top  center  figure  to  the  bottom  one  opposite,  and  what  do  you  get?&quot;  This  was  easy.  Nine  plusone.  &quot;Ten,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Exactly.&quot;  The  teacher  was  gratified.  &quot;It  is  the  same,  no  mat-  ter  which  numbers  you  take,  as  long  as  they  are  opposite  one  another  and  across  the  number  five.&quot;  He  pointed  with  his  pencil.  &quot;T'wo  and  eight.  Four  and  six.  Three  and  seven.  This  is  the  first  lesson  to  show  what  can  be  done  with  the  tortoise  shell;  there  is  much,  much  more.  It  was  discovered  byan  ancient  king  of  4368696e61.  Later,  I  will  show  you  more.&quot;  Excited  by  his  new  knowledge,  Kato  had  applied  himself  to  further  study  of  the  tortoise-shell  mysteries,  and  the  remaining  days  in  the  4368696e61  monastery  passed  quickly.  At  the  end  of  the  war-he  said  noth-  ing  about  4a6170616e's  surrender-he  went  back  home  and  continued  his  self-im-  posed  work.  Out  of  this  beginning,  he  told  me,  he  formulated  a  religion.  It  grew.  People  came  to  learn  from  him,  and  his  country  house  became  a  lode-  star  for  them.  &quot;Now  I  have  a  shrine  just  under  Fuji,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  share  it  with  a  friend  whose  land  it  is  on,  so  he  has  given  his  name  to  it.  You  must  come  to  see  it  next  cherry-blossom  time-  next  spring.  Often  I  have  said  to  my-  self,  'I  must  tell  Mickey  about  all  of  it  -the  science  of  numbers,  the  tortoise  shell  and  what  it  means,  so  that  she  can  write  a  book  about  it.'  My  friend  is  here  in  New  York  with  me,  and  he  is  coming  this  evening  to  have  dinner  with  a  group  of  us.  There  will  be  you,  and  a  cousin  of  mine,  and  some  others  like  that.  A  seyonere  dinner.&quot;  He  looked  at  his  watch.  &quot;They  will  be  downstairs  now,  so  we  must  go.&quot;  &quot;'Your  friend,&quot;  I  said  as  we  went  to  the  elevator.  &quot;What  does  he  think  about  the  tortoiseshell  and  all  the  rest?&quot;  He  flashed  the  grin  I  remembered,  and  said,  &quot;He  says  I  give  him  a  head-  ache.&quot;  I  had  no  headache,  but  I  was  mysti-  fied  about  why  he  had  picked  me,  of  all  people,  as  an  interpreter  of  the  new  philosophy.  I  am  no  philosopher,  and  mysticism  of  any  kind  gives  me  an  itchy  feeling.  Nevertheless,  the  en-  counter,  all  of  our  encounters,  fasci-  nated  me.  The  seyonaera  dinner  took  place  in  a  4a6170616eese  restaurant  near  the  hotel.  There  was  no  wine,  and  nobody  smoked.  Kato's  partner  in  the  shrine  spoke  no  English,  but  he  didn't  look  as  if  he  had  a  headache,  either.  He  was  cheerful,  and  took  a  lot  of  photo-  graphs;  everybody  except  me  took  pho-  tographs.  We  were  halfway  through  dinner  when  I  was  struck  by  a  thought  that  seemed  worth  some  comment.  &quot;Have  any  of  you  noticed  the  date?&quot;  I  asked.  I  looked  from  one  face  to  another,  but  found  only  polite  incomprehension.  &quot;What  does  it  standfor?&quot;  asked  Kato's  cousin.  &quot;December  7th!&quot;  I  exclaimed.  &quot;[REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  Day!&quot;  They  did  not  react  with  much  emo-  tion;  in  fact,  they  did  not  react  at  all.  The  cousin  took  a  group  picture.  It  seemed  quite  natural  at  last  that  I  should  bring  out  a  recent  photograph  of  [REDACTED]  and  show  it  to  Kato.  He  laughed  aloud  in  delight.  &quot;The  baby  I  used  to  find  milk  for!&quot;  The  others  leaned  over  politely  to  look,  but  how  could  it  have  meant  anything  to  them?  Rather  sketchily,  Kato  brought  me  up  to  date  on  his  family-two  sons,  very  different  in  nature,  but  both  good  boys.  I  asked  if  he  hadany  daughters.  &quot;'Nine,&quot;  said  Kato  cheerfully.  &quot;Nine  daughters.  But  they  are  all  married  and  out  of  the  house.  I  have  had  three  wives,  and  they  all  left  me,  but  I  kept  the  children.&quot;  He  seemed  remarkably  sanguine  about  it.  I  told  him  that  Aline  had  recently  died  in  [REDACTED]  of  aheart  attack.  &quot;I,  too,  nearly  died,&quot;  Kato  told  me.  &quot;Last  year  I  had  a  bad  operation.  Don't  I  look  thin?&quot;  You  always  did,  but,  yes,  you  look  thinner.&quot;  &quot;I  have  no  time  to  get  old,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  know,&quot;  I  said.  Kato  old  was  a  ridiculous  idea. "