 b"HOW  do  you  want  to  cook  this  H  fish?  How  do  you  want  to  cook  this  fish?  Harris  asked.  What?  Claireheard:  How  do  you  want  to  cook  this  fish?  Breaded,  she  said.  Fine,  Harris  said.  What?  Fine!  We  have  not  slept  together  for  three  hundred  nights,  she  thought.  His  rough,  tender  hands  not  wrapped  around  me.  Lawnmower.  His  rough,  tender  hands  wrapped  around  the  han-  dles  of  the  lawnmower.  Not  me.  What?  Where  did  you  hide  the  bread  crumbs?  What?  The  bread  crumbs!  Behind  the  Cheerios!  Claire  telephoned  her  mother.  Her  mother's  counsel  was  broccoli,  mostly,  but  who  else  was  she  going  to  talk  to?  What?  You  have  to  be  optimistic.  Be  be  be.  Optimistic.  They  go  through  phases.  As  they  get  older.  They  have  less  tolerance  for  monotony.  I'm  monotony?  They  go  through  phases.  As  they  grow  older.  They  like  to  think  that  their  futures  are  ahead  of  them.  This  is  ludicrous,  of  course-  Oh  ohoh  oh.  Ludicrous,  of  course,  but  I  have  never  yet  met  one  who  didn't  think  that  way  until  he  got  played  out.  Then  they  sink  into  a  comfortable  lassitude,  take  to  wearing  those  horrible  old-  geezer  hats-  What?  Hats  with  the  green  plastic  bills,  golf  hats  or  whatever  they  are-  Harris,  Claire  said  to  her  husband,  you've  stopped  watering  the  plants.  What?  You've  stopped  watering  the  plants  my  mother  always  said  that  when  they  stopped  watering  the  plants  that  was  a  sure  sign  of  an  impending  marital  breakup.  Your  mother  reads  too  much.  SARAH  decided  that  she  and  Harris  should  not  sleep  together  any  longer.  Harris  said,  What  about  hugging?  What?  Hugging.  Sarah  said  that  she  would  have  a  ruling  onhugging  in  a  few  days  and  that  he  should  stand  by  for  further  information.  She  pulled  the  black  lace  mantilla  down  to  veil  her  face  as  they  left  the  empty  church.  I  have  done  the  right  thing  the  right  thing.  I  am  right.  CLAIRE  came  in  wearing  her  brown  coat  and  carrying  a  large  brown  paper  bag.  Look  what  I  got!  she  said  excitedly.  What?  Harris  said.  She  reached  into  the  bag  and  pulled  out  a  smeary  plastic  tray  with  six  frozen  shell  steaks  on  it.  The  steaks  looked  as  if  they  had  died  long,  long  ago.  Six  dollars!  Claire  said.  This  guy  came  into  the  laundromat  and  said  he  wasmaking  deliveries  to  restaurants  and  some  of  the  restaurants  already  had  all  the  steaks  they  needed  and  now  he  had  these  left  over  and  they  were  only  six  dollars.  Six  dollars.  You  spent  six  dollars  on  these?  Other  people  bought  some  too.  Diseased,  stolen  steaks?  He  was  wearing  a  white  coat,  Claire  said.  He  had  a  truck.  I'll  bet  he  had  a  truck.  Harris  went  to  see  Madam  Olym-  pia,  a  reader  and  adviser.  Her  office  was  one  room  in  a  bad  part  of  the  city.  Chicken  wings  burned  in  a  frying  pan  on  the  stove.  She  got  up  and  turned  them  off,  then  got  up  and  turned  them  on  again.  She  was  wearing  a  T-shirt  that  had  &quot;Burraro,  Crry  or  No  Irrusions&quot;  printed  on  it.  Tell  me  about  yourself,  she  said.  My  life  is  hell,  Harris  said.  He  sketched  the  circumstances.  I  am  bored  to  tears  with  this  sort  of " b"thing,  Madam  Olympia  said.  To  tears  to  tears.  Well,  Harris  said,  me  too.  Woman  wakes  up  in  the  middle  of  the  night,  Madam  Olympia  said,  she  goes,  what  you  thinkin'  about?  You  go,  the  float.  She  goes,  is  the  float  makin'  us  money  or  not  makin'  us  money?  You  go,  it  depends  on  what  happens  Wednesday.  She  goes,  that's  nice.  You  go,  what  do  you  mean,  you  don't  know  zip  about  the  float,  woman.  She  goes,  well  you  don't  have  to  be  nasty.  You  go,  I'm  not  being  nasty,  you  just  don't  understand.  She  goes,  so  why  don't  you  tell  me?  Behind  this,  other  agendas  on  both  sides.  The  float  is  a  secret,  Harris  said.  Many  men  don't  even  know  about  the  float.  To  tearsto  tears  to  tears.  Right,  Harris  said.  How  much  do  I  owe  you!?  Fifty  dollars.  HE  community  whispered:  Are  they  still  living?  How  many  times  a  week?  What  is  that  symbol  on  your  breast?  Did  they  refuse  to  sign  it?  Did  they  consent  to  sign  it'  In  the  rain'  Before  the  fire?  Has  there  been  weight  loss?  How  many  pounds?  What  is  their  favorite  color?  Have  they  been  audited?  Was,  there  a  his  side  of  the  bed  and  a  her  side  of  the  bed?  Did  she  make  it  herself?  Can  we  have  a  taste?  Have  they  stolen  money?  Have  they  stolen  stamps?  Can  he  ride  a  horse?  Can  he  ride  a  steer?  What  is  his  best  time  in  the  calf  scramble?  Is  there  money?  Was  there  money?  What  hap-  pened  to  the  money?  What  will  hap-  pen  to  the  money?  Did  success  come  early  or  late?  Did  success  come?  A  red  wig?  At  the  Junior  League?  A  red  dress  with  a  red  wig?  Was  she  ever  a  painter?  Is  that  a  theoretical  position  or  a  real  position'  Would  they  do  it  again'  Again  and  again'  How  many  times?  A  thousand  times?  LAIRE  met  Sweet  Papa  Cream  Puff,  a  new  person.  He  was  the  house  pianist  atBells,  a  club  fre-  quented  by  disconsolate  women  in  the  early  afternoons.  He  was  a  huge  man  and  said  that  he  was  a  living  legend.  What?  Living  legend,  he  said.  I  didn't  name  the  &quot;Sweet  Papa  Cream  Puff  Blues&quot;  by  that  name,  he  said.  It  was  named  by  the  people  of  [REDACTED].  Oh  my  oh  my  oh  my,  Claire  said.  This  musta  been  'bout  1921,  '22,  he  said.  Those  was  wonderful  days.  There  was  one  other  man,  at  that  time,  who  had  part  of  my  fame.  Fellow  named  Red  Top,  he's  dead  now.  He  was  very  good,  scared  me  a  little  bit.  I  studied  him.  I  had  two  or  three  situations  on  the  problem.  I  worked  very  hard  and  bested  him  in  1923.  June  of  that  year.  Wow,  Claire  said.  Zum,  Sweet  Papa  Cream  Puff  sang,  zum  zum  zum  zum  zum.  Six  perfect  treble  notes  in  the  side  pocket.  ARAHK  calls  Harris  from  a  clinic  in  [REDACTED]  and  floors  him  with  the  news  of  her  &quot;miscarriage.&quot;  Saddened  by  the  loss  of  the  baby,  he's  neverthe-  less  elated  to  be  free  of  his  &quot;obliga-  tion.&quot;  But  when  Harris  rushes  to  de-  clare  his  love  for  Claire,  he's  crushed  to  learn  that  she  is  married  to  Phillip.  Hoping  against  hope  that  Harris  will  stay  with  her,  Sarah  returns.  Harris  is  hung  over  from  drinking  too  much  the  night  before  when  Sarah  demands  to  know  if  he  wants  her.  Unable  to  decide  at  first,  he  yields  to  Sarah's  feigned  helplessness  and  tells  her  to  stay.  Later,  they  sharea  pleasant  din-  ner  at  the  Riverboat,  where  Claire  is  a  waiter.  Harris  is  impressed  to  learn  that  Sarah  refused  to  join  in  his  mother's  plan  to  dissuade  him  from  buying  the  ranch.  Claire  is  embracing  Harris  before  his  de-  parture  when  Sarah  en-  ters  the  office.  When  Harris  is  caught  shop-  lifting,  Claire's  kid  sis-  ter,  terrified  at  having  to  face  acourt  appearance,  signs  forhis  release.  Missing  Sarah  terribly,  Harris  calls  her  from  New  Orleans;  when  she  tells  him  about  becom-  ing  chairwoman  of  Claire's  new  bank,  he  hangs  up  angrily.  Al-  though  they've  separat-  ed,his  feelings  for  Claire  haven't  died  en-  tirely,  and  her  growing  involvement  with  his  new  partner,  Sarah,  is  a  bitter  pill  for  him  to  swallow,  as  he  sits  alone  drinking  too  much  brandy  in  Sarah's  study.  Sarah  blazes  with  anger  when  she  finds  Claire  in  the  hotel's  banquet  office  making  arrangements     " b"for  Harris's  testimonial  dinner,  as  Sarah,  her  right  leg  in  a  cast,  walks  up  the  steps  of  the  brownstone  and  punches  Claire's  bell,  rage  clearly  burn-  ing  in  her  eyes.  SARAH  visited  Dr.  Whorf,  a  good  psychiatrist.  Cold  as  death,  she  said.  What?  Cold  as  death.  Good  behavior  is  frequently  painful,  Dr.  Whorf  said.  Christ  you  know  that.  Sarah  was  surprised  to  find  that  what  she  had  told  Dr.  Whorf  was  absolutely  true.  She  was  fully  misera-  ble.  Harris  drunk  again  and  yelling  at  Claire  said  that  he  was  not  drunk.  I  feel  worse  than  you  feel,  she  said.  What?  Worse,  she  said,  woooooocorrssse.  You  know  what  I  saw  this  morn-  ing?  he  asked.  Eight  o'clock  in  the  morning.  I  was  out  walking.  Guy  comes  out  of  this  house,  wear-  ing  a  suit,  carrying  an  attach\xc3\xa9  case.  He's  going  to  work,  right?  He  gets  about  ten  steps  down  the  sidewalk  and  this  woman  comes  out.  Out  of  the  same  house.  She  says,  &quot;James?&quot;  He  turns  around  and  walks  back  toward  her.  She's  wearing  a  robe.  Pink  and  or-  ange.  She  says,  &quot;James,  I  .  you.&quot;  Maybe  it's  everywhere,  Claire  said.  A  pandemic.  I  don't  think  that,  Harris  said.  .  .  hate  ..  HIS  is  the  filthiest  phone  booth  I've  ever  been  in,  Harris  said  to  Sarah.  What?  The  filthiest  phone  booth  I  have  ever  been  in.  Hang  up  darling  hang  up  and  find  another  phone  booth  thank  you  for  the  jewels  the  pearls  and  the  emeralds  and  the  onyx  but  I  haven't  changed  my  mind  they're  quite  quite  beautiful  just  amazing  but  I  haven't  changed  my  mind  you're  so  kind  but  I  have  done  the  right  thing  painful  as  it  was  and  I  haven't  changed  my  mind--  He  remembered  her  standing  over  the  toothpaste  with  her  face  two  inches  from  the  toothpaste  because  she  couldn't  see  it  without  her  contacts  in.  Freud  said,  Claire  said,  that  in  the  adult,  novelty  always  constitutes  the  condition  for  orgasm.  Sweet  Papa  looked  away.  Oh  me  oh  my.  Well  you  know  the  gents  they  don't  know  what  they  after  they  own  selves,  very  often.  When  do  they  find  out?  At  the  eleventh  hour  let  me  play  you  a  little  thing  I  wrote  in  the  early  part  of  the  century  I  call  it  &quot;Verklarte  Nacht&quot;  that  means  &quot;stormy  weather&quot;  in  German,  I  played  there  in  [REDACTED]  oh  about-  Claire  placed  her  arms  around  Sweet  Papa  Cream  Puff  and  hugged  the  stuffing  out  of  him.  HAT?  What?  What?  What?  By  a  lucky  stroke  Harris  made  an  amount  of  money  in  the  market.  He  bought  Claire  a  beautiful  black  opal.  She  was  pleased.  He  looked  to  the  future.  Claire  will  continue  to  be  wonder-  ful.  As  will  I,  to  the  best  of  my  ability.  The  New  York  Times  will  be  pub-  lished  every  day  and  I  will  have  to  wash  it  off  my  hands  when  I  have  finished  reading  it,  every  day.  What?  Claire  said.  Smile.  What?  Smile. "