 b"LIFE  turned  my  first  cousin  into  a  criminal.  It  seems  to  me  he  was  lucky.  Otherwise,  he  would  in-  evitably  have  become  a  high-ranking  Party  functionary.  The  wildest  assortment  of  precondi-  tions  contributed  tothis  outcome.  However,  I  shouldn't  jump  ahead.  My  Aunt  Tanya  was  a  well-known  literary  editor.  Her  husband,  Efim,  was  the  director  of  a  research  institute.  Along  with  this,  he  lectured  and  col-  lected  stamps.  It  was  a  good,  close-  knit  family.  My  cousin,  though,  had  been  born  under  rather  curious  circumstances.  Before  her  marriage,  my  aunt  had  had  a  love  affair.  She  had  fallen  in  love  with  a  prominent  official,  Vladimir  Borisovich  Lukyanov,  who  had  once  even  been  a  deputy  to  Party  Secretary  Kirov.  Some  old  Leningraders  still  re-  member  him.  He  had  a  family,  but  he  loved  my  aunt  along  with  his  marriage.  Eventually,  my  aunt  discovered  that  she  was  pregnant.  When  it  came  time  to  give  birth,  she  was  taken  to  the  hospital.  My  mother  went  to  Party  headquar-  ters.  She  managed  to  get  an  appoint-  ment,  reminded  Lukyanov  about  her  sister  and  her  problems.  Lukyanov  gloomily  gave  some  orders.  The  flunkies  of  the  regional  Party  office  trooped  to  the  maternity  clinic  with  flowers  and  fruits.  They  also  delivered  to  my  aunt's  lodgings  a  little  inlaid  card  table,  apparently  requisitioned  from  nonproletarian-class  elements.  My  aunt  gave  birth  to  a  healthy,  sweet  little  boy,  who  was  named  Niko-  lai.  My  mother  decided  to  go  to  Party  headquarters  once  again.  This  time  she  couldn't  get  an  appointment,  and  not  because  Lukyanovy  was  suddenly  putting  on  airs.  Quite.the  contrary,  in  fact.  Just  a  few  days  earlier,  the  happy  father  had  been  arrested  as  an  enemy  of  the  people.  It  was  the  year1938.  My  aunt  was  left  alone  with  the  infant.  It  was  a  good  thing  Lukyanov  hadn't  been  her  husband,  or  my  aunt  would  have  been  exiled.  As  it  was,  his  wife  and  children  were  deported-which  was  also,  of  course,  not  very  pleasant.  My  aunt  apparently  knew  how  to  handle  herself.  She  was  a  handsome,  energetic,  and  independent  woman.  If  she  was  afraid  of  anything  at  all,  it  was  the  judgment  of  the  Party.  Besides,  Efim  had  come  on  the  scene.  It  was  obvious  that  he  loved  my  aunt.  He  offered  her  his  hand  and  heart.  Efim  was  the  son  of  a  Jewish  hat  manufacturer,  but  he  didn't  look  like  the  stereotype  of  a  Jew,  near-  sighted  and  frail.  He  was  a  tall,  strong,  attractive  man:  a  former  revo-  lutionary  student,  a  soldier  in  the  Red  Army,  and  an  entrepreneur  and  enthu-  siast  during  the  NEP  period,  the  exper-  iment  with  limited  free  enterprise.  Later  on,  an  administrative  official,  and  finally,  in  his  declining  years,  a  revisionist  and  dissident.  Efim  idolized  my  aunt.  Little  Kolya  called  him  Papa.  The  war  began.  We  found  our-  selves  in  Novosibirsk.  Kolya  was  al-  ready  three  years  old  and  in  nursery  school;  I  was  a  nursing  infant.  Food  was  very  scarce,  and  Kolya  brought  home  some  lumps  of  sugar  for  me.  He  carried  them  inside  his  cheek.  At  home,  he  took  them  out  and  put  them  on  a  plate.  I  raised  a  fuss  and  refused  to  eat  the  sugar.  In  alarm,  Kolya  said  to  his  parents,  &quot;But  the  sugar's  melting!&quot;  Then  the  war  ended  and  we  no  longer  went  hungry.  MY  cousin  grew  into  a  handsome  adolescent  of  the  Western  Eu-  ropean  type.  He  had  light  eyes  and  dark,  wavy  hair.  He  looked  like  the  young  heroes  of  the  progressive  Italian  cinema,  in  the  opinion  of  our  relatives.  He  was  an  exemplary  Soviet  boy-a  Pioneer,  a  top  student,  a  soccer  player,  and  a  collector  of  scrap  metal.  He  kept  a  diary,  in  which  he  wrote  down  wise  sayings.  He  planted  a  birch  tree  inhis  courtyard.  In  the  drama  club,  he  al-  ways  played  the  Young  Guard.  I  was  younger,  butworse.  And  he  was  always  held  up  to  me  as  an  exam-  ple.  He  was  upright,  modest,  and  well  read.  I  was  always  being  told:  Kolya  doeswell  in  school,  helps  his  parents,  is  good  at  sports.  Kolya  won  the  school  chemistry  competition.  Kolya  nursed  a  wounded  nestling.  Kolya  put  together  a  crystal  set  receiver.  (To  this  day,  I  have  no  idea  just  what  that  is.)  And  then  suddenly  somethingun-  real  happened.  Something  almost  beyond  description.  It's  hard  tofind  words.  To  put  it  briefly,  my  cousin  Kolya  urinated  on  the  school  direc-  tor.  Kolya  was  sitting  in  the  Pioneer  room,  working  on  the  bulletin-board  newspaper  for  Physical  Culture  Day.  Around  him  was  a  crowd  of  school-  mates.  Someone  looking  out  the  win-  dow  said,  &quot;Here  comes  the  Stoolie.&quot;  The  Stoolie  was  the  nickname  of  the  school  director,  Chebotaryov.  Where-  upon  my  cousin  climbed  up  onto  the  windowsill.  Asked  the  girls  to  turn  around.  Skillfully  calculated  his  trajec-  tory.  And  doused  Chebotaryov  from  his  feet  up  tohis  head.  This  was  incredible  and  crazy.  It  was  impossible  to  believe  it.  In  a  month,  several  people  who  had  been  present  doubted  it  had  actually  hap-  pened,  so  insane  did  the  whole  scene  appear.  Director  Chebotaryov's  reaction  was  also  highly  unexpected.  He  com-  pletely  lost  his  composure  and  sud-  denly  began  screaming  in  a  rush  of  labor-camp  slang,  &quot;I  used  to  give  it  to  the  likes  of  you  back  in  the  camp!  I'll  make  you-  You  son  ofa  bacilli-laden  bitch!&quot;  The  old  prison  kapo  had  awakened  in  Director  Chebotaryov.  And  had  it  not  been  for  this  incident,  who  would  have  ever  guessed  his  past?&quot;  Always  wearing  a  green  felt  hat,  a  fancy  Chi-  nese  cloak,  and  carrying  a  tightly  stuffed,  worn-out  briefcase.  My  cousin  performed  this  act  one  week  before  the  end  of  school,  thereby  depriving  himself  of  a  gold  medal.  With  difficulty,  his  parents  persuaded  the  director  to  give  Kolya  a  graduation  certificate.  I  asked  my  cousin  why  he  had  done  it.  &quot;I  did  what  every  student  secretly  dreams  of  doing,&quot;  he  replied.  &quot;When  I  saw  the  Stoolie  that  day,  I  thought,  It's  now  or  never!  I'll  do  it-or  else  I'll  stop  respecting  myself.&quot;  By  that  time,  I  was  already  a  rather  malicious  adolescent.  I  told  my  cousin,  &quot;In  a  hundred  years,  they'll  hang  a  memorial  plaque  on  our  school:  'Here  Nikolai  Gubarev  attended  school,  with  all  the  ensuing  consequences.&quot;  &quot;  The  family  discussed  my  cousin's  wild  action  for  several  months.  Then  Nikolai  entered  a  theatre  institute.  He  had  decided  to  become  a  drama  spe-  cialist.  People  began  to  forget  about  his  offense-especially  since  he  did  so  brilliantly  at  school.  He  was  the  secre-  tary  of  the  Komsomol  organization,  " b"and  a  blood  donor,  the  editor  of  the  bulletin-board  newspaper,  and  a  goalie  besides.  As  he  grew  up,  he  became  even  handsomer.  He  looked  even  more  like  an  Italian  movie  star.  Girls  pursued  him  with  undisguisedenthusiasm.  De-  spite  such  attention,  he  was  a  chaste  and  shy  young  man.  Feminine  flirta-  tiousness  sickened  him.  I  remember  one  notation  in  his  student  diary:  &quot;The  main  thing  in  a  book  and  in  a  woman  is  not  the  form  but  the  con-  tent.&quot;  Even  now,  after  countless  experi-  ences  and  disappointments,  this  posi-  tion  seems  to  me  a  little  boring.  And  now,  as  then,  I  like  only  beautiful  women.  I  even  have  prejudices  on  this  score.  It  seems  to  me,  for  example,  that  all  fat  women  are  liars.  Especially  if  they  have  small  breasts.  However,  this  story  is  not  about  me.  MY  cousin  graduated  from  the  theatre  institute,  took  his  di-  ploma  with  highest  honors.  An  impec-  cable  Komsomol  dossier  trailed  after  him:  he  worked  on  virgin-lands  projects  and  commanded  a  construc-  tion  unit;  took  an  active  part  on  a  squad  that  assisted  the  police;  was  a  terror  to  petit-bourgeois  thinking  and  all  vestiges  of  capitalism  in  the  con-  sciousness  of  the  people.  He  had  the  most  honest  eyes  in  the  whole  neigh-  borhood.  He  became  a  literary  administrator,  got  a  job  in  the  Lenin  Komsomol  Theatre.  This  was  almost  unbeliev-  able.  So  young,  just  out  of  school,  and  already  such  a  position!  As  head  of  the  literature  depart-  ment,  he  was  demanding  and  business-  like.  He  fought  on  behalf  of  progres-  sive  art,  and  managed  to  do  so  with  tact,  restraint,  and  caution,  while  skillfully  slipping  Vampilov,  Mrozek,  Borshchagovsky  into  production.  Es-  tablished  Soviet  playwrights  were  rather  afraid  of  him.  Rebellious  young  theatre  enthusiasts  admired  him.  He  was  sent  on  important  business  trips.  He  participated  in  a  few  Kremlin  conferences.  It  was  delicately  sug-  gested  to  him  that  he  join  the  Party.  He  hesitated.  It  seemed  to  him  he  wasn't  worthy.  And  then  suddenly  my  cousin  once  again  distinguished  himself.  I  don't  know  how  to  put  it  any  better.  Briefly,  Kolya  committed  twelve  robberies.  He  had  a  close  friend,  named  Tsapin,  who  worked  for  Intourist.  And  it  came  about  that  he  and  Tsapin  managed  a  heist  involving  twelve  tourist  buses.  They  carried  off  suit-  cases,  shortwave  radios,  tape  recorders,  umbrellas,  raincoats,  and  hats.  And  a  spare  tire.  Twenty-four  hours  later,  they  were  arrested.  We  were  in  shock.  My  aunt  ran  to  her  friend  Yuri  German.  He  telephoned  his  friends;  these  included  generals  in  the  militia.  My  cousin  was  defended  by  the  best  lawyer  in  town,  Kiselyov.  In  the  course  of  the  trial,  certain  fine  points  and  details  were  brought  to  light.  It  turned  out  that  the  victims  of  the  rob-  bery  were  representatives  of  develop-  ing  nations  and  members  of  progres-  sive  socialist  organizations.  Kiselyov  decided  to  turn  this  to  use.  He  asked  my  cousin,  &quot;Did  you  know  that  these  people  happened  to  be  citi-  zens  of  developing  nations?  As  well  as  representatives  of  socialist  organiza-  tions?&quot;  &quot;Unfortunately,  no,&quot;  Nikolai  an-  swered  sensibly.  &quot;Well,  and  if  you  had  known?  Would  you  still  have  attempted  to  en-  croach  on  their  private  possessions?&quot;  My  cousin's  face  expressed  an  ex-  treme  degree  of  hurt.  The  lawyer's  question  seemed  to  strike  him  as  com-  pletely  tactless.  He  raised  his  eyebrows  in  vexation,  as  if  to  signify,  &quot;How  can  you  ask?  How  can  you  even  think  it?&quot;  Kiselyovy  perked  up  noticeably.  \xc2\xab&quot;And  now,  one  last  question,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Wasn't  it  rather  your  belief  that  these  gentlemen  were  representatives  of  reactionary  strata  of  society?&quot;  At  this  point,  the  judge  broke  in.  &quot;Comrade  Kiselyov,  do  not  attempt  to  portray  the  accused  as  a  fighter  for  world  revolution.&quot;  But  my  cousin  had  managed  to  nod.  Indicating,  as  it  were,  that  such  an  assumption  had  flashed  through  his  mind.  The  judge  raised  his  voice.  &quot;Let  us  confine  ourselves  to  the  facts  that  the  inquest  has  at  its  disposal.&quot;  Throughout  the  trial,  my  cousin  conducted  himself  bravely  and  without  affectation.  Smiled  at  the  judge  and  bantered  with  him.  My  cousin  was  given  only  three  years.  When  the  sentence  was  read,  he  " b"didn't  flinch.  He  was  led  away  from  the  courtroom  under  guard.  There  was  an  appeal,  all  kinds  of  solicitations,  negotiations,  and  tele-  phone  calls.  And  all  useless.  My  cousin  was  sent  to  Tyumen,  toa  high-security  labor  camp.  We  corresponded.  All  his  letters  be-  gan  with  the  words  &quot;Things  are  nor-  mal  here  with  me.&quot;  Then  there  would  be  a  list  of  requests-numerous,  but  restrained  and  sober:  &quot;'T'  wo  pairs  wool  socks  ...  an  English-language  text-  book  .  .  .  underwear  .  .  .  composition  notebooks  ...a  German-language  textbook  .  ..  garlic  ...  lemons  ...  a  fountain  pen  ...a  French-language  textbook  ...and  also  a  manual  for  teaching  yourself  the  guitar.&quot;  News  from  camp  came  through  as  entirely  optimistic.  The  senior  warden  wrote  my  aunt,  &quot;Nikolai  Gubarev  undeviatingly  obeys  all  the  injunctions  of  camp  regulations  .  ..  enjoys  respect  from  the  other  prisoners  ...  systemati-  cally  overfulfills  his  labor  assign-  ments  ...  takes  an  active  part  in  ar-  ranging  cultural  activities  ...&quot;  My  cousin  wrote  that  he  had  been  appointed  an  orderly.  Then  a  briga-  dier.  And  finally-chief  administrator  in  charge  of  the  bathhouse.  As  a  career,  this  was  dizzying.  And  to  move  up  in  labor  camp  was  ex-  traordinarily  difficult.  Equivalent  ad-  vances  outside  jail  would  have  led  to  the  perquisites  of  a  bu-  reaucratic  administra-  tor-access  to  special  shops,  dachas,  and  travel  abroad.  My  cousin  skyrock-  eted  toward  rehabilita-  tion.  He  was  the  camp  beacon.  He  was  en-  vied,  he  was  admired.  In  a  year's  time,  he  was  transferred  to  chemistry-that  is,  to  a  free  settlement  where  he  was  assigned  to  work  in  a  local  chemi-  cal  industrial  complex.  That  was  where  he  married.  A  self-sacri-  ficing  classmate  named  Liza  came  out  to  join  him.  She  acted  like  the  wife  of  a  Decembrist.  They  became  man  and  wife.  As  for  me,  during  this  time  I  was  kicked  out  of  the  university.  Then  I  was  drafted  into  the  Army.  And  I  was  assigned  to  serve  as  part  of  the  military  police,  as  a  labor-camp  guard.  So  I  was  a  guard.  And  Kolya  was  a  prisoner.  And  it  even  came  about  that  I  stood  guard  over  my  cousin.  True,  not  for  very  long.  I  don't  really  want  to  write  about  it.  It  would  all  come  out  sounding  overliterary,  like  Sholo-  khov's  &quot;'T  ales  of  the  Don.&quot;  It's  enough  to  say  that  I  was  a  guard  and  my  cous-  in  a  prisoner.  E  returned  home  at  almost  the  same  time.  My  cousin  was  re-  leased  and  I  was  demobilized.  Our  relatives  arranged  a  grandiose  banquet  at  the  Metropole.  First  and  foremost  they  were  honoring  my  cousin,  but  now  and  then  a  good  word  was  put  in  for  me,  too.  Our  Uncle  Roman  expressed  him-  self  as  follows:  &quot;'There  are  people  who  remind  you  of  reptiles.  They  live  in  swamps,  and  hide  among  the  rocks.  And  then  there  are  people  who  remind  you  of  mountain  eagles.  They  soar  higher  than  the  sun,  they  spread  their  wings  wide.  So  let  us  drink  to  Kolya,  our  mountain  eagle!  Let  us  wish  that  the  clouds  be  left  behind!&quot;  &quot;Bravo!&quot;  the  relatives  cried.  &quot;Our  good  boy,  our  eagle,  our  brave  young  warrior!&quot;  In  my  uncle's  speech  I  could  detect motifs  from  Gorky's  &quot;Song  of  the  Fal-  con.&quot;  Roman  lowered  his  voice  slightly  and  added,  &quot;Let's  also  drink  to  Se-  ryozha,  our  eaglet!  True,  he's  still  young.  His  wings  aren't  so  strong  yet,  but  wide  expanses  await  him,  too!&quot;  &quot;God  forbid!&quot;  my  mother  said  rather  loudly.  My  uncle  gave  her  a  reproachful  look.  Once  again,  my  aunt  made  tele-  phone  calls  to  various  people,  and  my  cousingota  job  in  the  film  in-  dustry  as  something  like  a  lighting  as-  sistant.  I  began  working  for  afactory  news-  paper,  and  started  to  write  short  stories  on  the  side.  My  cousin's  career  developed  with  gathering  momentum.  Soon  he  became  a  lab  worker,  then  a  dispatcher,  then  senior  dispatcher-and,  finally,  assis-  tant  to  the  director  of  a  film.  That  is  to  say,  he  became  someone  of  stature,  with  material  responsibility.  It  was  no  accident  that  in  labor  camp  my  cousin  had  moved  so  swiftly  toward  rehabili-  tation.  Now  it  was  clear  he  couldn't  stop.  In  a  month,  his  photograph  hung  on  the  Board  of  Merit.  He  was  loved  by  directors,  by  cameramen,  and  by  the  studio  chief  himself.  More  im-  portant,  he  was  loved  by  the  cleaning  ladies.  He  was  promised  a  filmof  his  own  in  the  near  fu-  ture.  Sixteen  old  Com-  munists  at  the  studio  were  ready  to  recom-  mend  him  for  admis-  sion  to  the  Party.  But  my  cousin  hesitated.  He  reminded  me  of  Levin  in  &quot;Anna  Ka-  renina.&quot;  On  the  eve  of  his  marriage,  Levin  lamented  that  he  had  already  lost  his  virgin-  ity  in  his  youth.  My  cousin  tormented  him-  self  with  a  similar  problem  how  one  could  bea  Communist  and  have  a  criminal  past.  The  old  Commu-  nists  assured  him  it  was  possible.  My  cousin's  ac-  complishments  stood  out  all  the  more  sharply  against  the  pallid  backdrop  of  my  own.  He  was  cheerful,      " b"dynamic,  and  laconic.  He  was  sent  on  impor-  tant  business  trips.  Ev-  eryone  foresaw  a  bril-  liant  administrative  ca-  reer  for  him.  It  was  im-  possible  to  believe  that  he  had  been  in  prison.  Many  of  our  superficial  acquaintances  thought  I  was  the  one  who  had  done  time.  AND  then  again  something  hap-  pened,  though  this  time  not  all  at  once.  Strange  lapses  began  to  occur-  as  if  the  stately  notes  of  the  &quot;Appassionata&quot;  were  being  wrecked  by  the  shrill  wails  of  a  saxophone.  My  cousin  pursued  his  career  as  before-gave  speeches  at  meetings,  went  on  business  trips.  But  par-  allel  to  this  he  began  to  drink.  And  go  after  women,  with  unexpected  enthusiasm.  He  began  to  beseen  in  suspicious  company.  He  was  surrounded  by  drunkards,  boastful  old  soldiers,  black  marketeers.  ...  Whenever  he  was  so-  ber,  he  would  hurry  to  a  meeting.  After  he  had  given  a  successful  speech,  he  ran  to  meet  his  friends.  In  the  beginning  these  paths  didn't  intersect.  There  were  times  when  he  didn't  show  up  at  home  for  three  days  straight.  He  would  disappear  with  some  indecent  woman.  The  majority  of  his  women  were  unattractive.  One  of  them,  I  remember,  was  named  Greta.  She  had  a  goiter.  I  said  to  my  cousin,  &quot;You  could  do  better  than  her.&quot;  &quot;What  are  you,  crazy?&quot;  he  an-  swered  indignantly.  &quot;Don't  you  real-  ize  that  she  can  get  pure  alcohol  at  work?  And  in  unlimited  quantities  at  that?&quot;  Evidently  my  cousin  was  still  governed  by  the  doctrine  of  his  youth:  &quot;In  a  woman  and  in  a  book  the  main  thing  is  not  the  form  but  the  [REDACTED];  Then  my  cousin  beat  up  a  waiter  in  the  Narva  restaurant.  He  had  wanted  the  waiter  to  sing  &quot;Suliko.&quot;  He  began  to  be  brought  beforethe  militia.  Each  time,  the  Party  bureau  at  the  studio  bailed  him  out,  but  each  time  less  willingly.  We  waited  to  see  how  it  would  all  end.  In  the  summertime  he  went  off  to  Chita  for  the  shooting  of  a  film  called  &quot;Dauria.&quot;  Then  suddenly  we  learned  that  while  driving  an  official  car  my  cousin  had  run  over  a  man.  What's  more,  an  officer  in  the  Soviet  Army.  Fatally.  There  was  a  terrible  period  of  sup-  positions  and  guesses.  Information  of  the  most  contradictory  kind  kept  com-  ing  in.  It  was  said  that  Kolya  had  been  driving  completely  drunk.  It  was  also  said,  true,  that  the  officer  had  not  been  too  sober,  either,  though  this  had  no  significance,  considering  that  he  was  dead.  Everything  was  kept  secret  from  my  aunt.  My  uncles  put  together  about  four  hundred  rubles.  I  was  supposed  to  fly  to  Chita,  to  learn  all  the  details,  and  to  undertake  some  practical  ac-  tions:  to  arrange  for  packages  to  be  forwarded,  to  hire  a  lawyer.  &quot;And,  if  possible,  to  bribe  the  prosecuting  attor-  ney,&quot;  Uncle  Roman  told  me.  I  started  to  get  ready.  Late  at  night,  the  telephone  rang.  I  picked  it  up.  The  calm  voice  of  my  cousin  floated  out  of  the  silence.  &quot;Were  you  asleep?&quot;  &quot;Kolya!&quot;  I  shouted.  &quot;Are  you  alive?  They're  not  going  to  shoot  you?  Were  you  drunk?&quot;  &quot;I'm  alive,&quot;  my  cousin  answered.  ''They're  not  going  to  shoot  me.  And  remember-it  was  an  accident.  I  was  driving-sober.  They'll  give  me  about  four  years,  not  more.  Did  you  get  the  cigarettes?&quot;  &quot;What  cigarettes?&quot;  &quot;4a6170616eese.  You  see,  Chita  has  a  separate  trade  agreement  with  4a6170616e,  and  they  sell  excellent  cigarettes  here  called  Hi-Lites.  I  sent  you  a  carton  for  your  birthday.  Did  you  get  them?&quot;  &quot;No.  That's  not  important-&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;What  do  you  mean,  not  important?  They're  first-class  cigarettes,  manu-  factured  under  an  American  export  license-*&quot;  But  I  interrupted  him.  &quot;Are  you  in  custody?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;What  for?  I  live  in  the  hotel.  The  investigator  comes  to  see  me.  Her  name  is  Larissa.  She's  a  nice,  plump  girl.  By  the  way,  she  sends  you  regards.&quot;  An  unfamiliar  female  voice  sang  into  the  receiver,  &quot;Cuckoo,  my  little  chickie!&quot;  Then  my  cousin  got  on  the  line  again.  &quot;It's  absolutely  useless  for  you  to  fly  to  Chita.  The  trial,  I  hope,  will  be  in  Leningrad.  Does  Mama  know?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;'There's  going  to  be  some  rack-  &quot;Kolya!&quot;  I  shouted.  &quot;What  should  I  sendyou?  You  must  be  in  a  terrible  state  of  mind!  After  all,  you've  killed  a  man!  Killed  someone!&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Don't  shout!  Officers  are  created  in  order  to  perish.  And  once  again  I  " b"repeat-it  was  an  accident.  The  main  thing  is,  where  have  those  cigarettes  gotten  to?&quot;  OON,  people  who  had  firsthand  knowledge  of  the  events  arrived  from  Chita  and  cleared  up  the  details  of  the  whole  business.  It  had  been  somebody's  birthday,  an  outdoor  celebration.  Kolya  arrived  late,  already  toward  evening,  in  an  official  car.  As  usual,  there  wasn't  enough  alcohol.  The  guests  were  get-  ting  a  little  depressed.  The  stores  were  closed.  Kolya  announced,  &quot;I'm  going  for  moonshine.  Anyone  with  me?&quot;  He  was  tipsy.  They  tried  to  talk  him  out  of  it.  In  the  end,  three  people  went  with  him.  This  included  the  driver  assigned  to  the  car,  who  dozed  in  the  back  seat,  Half  an  hour  later,  they  knocked  down  a  motorcyclist,  who  died  instantly.  The  members  of  the  expedition  be-  came  completely  hysterical.  My  cous-  in,  on  the  other  hand,  got  very  sober.  He  took  precise  and  immediate  action  -namely,  he  still  went  to  get  the  moonshine.  This  took  fifteen  min-  utes.  Then  he  generously  poured  it  out  for  the  members  of  his  expedition.  Included  was  the  slightly  sobered  official  driver.  He  dozed  off  once  again.  Only  then  did  my  cousin  call  the  militia.  A  short  time  later,  a  police  van  pulled  up.  On  arrival  they  found  a  corpse  alongsidea  smashed  motorcy-  cle,  and  four  drunken  persons,  among  whom  my  cousin  seemed  the  most  so-  ber.  Lieutenant  Dudko  asked,  &quot;Which  of  you  is  the  driver?&quot;  My  cousin  pointed  to  the  sleeping  driver.  He  was  carried  into  the  police  van.  The  others  gave  their  addresses  and  were  taken  to  their  separate  lodgings.  Kolya  hidout  for  three  days,  till  the  alcohol  had  ventilated  off.  Then  he  appeared  at  the  police  station  and  ac-  knowledged  his  guilt.  By  this  time,  quite  naturally,  the  driver  had  sobered  up.  He  was  being  held  in  a  pre-trial  investigation  cell.  He  was  convinced  that  he  had  run  " b"   over  the  man  in  a  drunken  stupor.  Now  my  cousin  appeared  and  declared  that  he  had  been  at  the  wheel.  &quot;Then  why  did  you  indicate  Krachmalnikov  Yuri  Petrovich?&quot;  the  lieutenant  asked,  growing  angry.  &quot;You  asked  who  the  driver  was,  so  I  told  you.&quot;  &quot;And  where  have  you  been  for  three  days?&quot;  &quot;I  got  frightened-I  was  in  shock.&quot;  He  tried  to  mimic  the  way  someone  with  a  fearful  nature  would  act.  The  attempt  rang  false.  &quot;'Were  you  drunk  while  at  the  wheel?&quot;  the  lieutenant  asked.  &quot;Not  a  bit,&quot;  my  cousin  answered.  &quot;That  I  doubt.&quot;  However,  by  now  it  was  impossible  to  prove  anything  one  way  or  the  other.  The  members  of  the  expedition  swore  that  Kolya  hadn't  been  drink-  ing.  The  driver  escaped  with  a  profes-  sional  reprimand.  My  cousin  had  acted  cunningly.  Now  he  would  have  to  be  tried  not  as  a  drunken  driver  but  simply  as  some-  one  who  had  caused  an  accident.  The  female  investigator  Larissa  told  him,  &quot;Even  in  bed  you  continue  to  deceive  the  investigation.&quot;  In  a  week,  he  showed  up  in  Lenin-  grad.  My  aunt  already  knew  every-  thing.  She  didn't  carry  on.  She  made  telephone  calls  to  writers  who  had  connections  with  the  militia.  To  Yuri  German,  as  always;  to  Metter,  Sa-parov  .  ..  As  a  result,  my  cousin  was  left  in  peace  until  the  trial.  All  he  was  asked  to  do  was  to  sign  a  pledge  that  he  wouldn't  leave  town.  On  one  of  his  first  days  home,  my  cousin  dropped  in  to  see  me.  He  asked,  &quot;You  did  guard  duty  near  Leningrad,  didn't  you?  Do  you  know  the  local  system  of  labor  camps?&quot;  &quot;In  general,  yes.  I  was  in  Obu-  khovo,  Gorelyova,  at  Piskarovka  ..  .&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Which  one  would  be  best,  in  your  opinion,  for  me  to  be  in?&quot;  &quot;In  Obukhovo,  I  think.  The  secu-  rity  is  not  as  tight.&quot;  &quot;Then  let's  not  waste  time.  I'd  bet-  ter  go  there  and  look  around.&quot;  We  went  to  Obukhovo.  We  stopped  by  the  barracks,  had  a  talk  with  the  orderly,  found  out  who  was  still  there  of  the  reenlisted  men  I  knew.  After  a  moment,  Sergeants  Goderidze  and  Osipenko  came  running  into  the  bar-  racks.  We  embraced.  I  introduced  them  to  my  cousin.  Then  I  asked  who  was  still  there  of  the  old  prison-camp  adminis-  tration.  &quot;Captain  Deryabin,&quot;'  the  soldiers  answered.  Captain  Deryabin  I  remembered  well.  He  was  a  comparatively  good-  hearted,  harmless  lush.  The  prisoners  used  to  sneak  off  with  his  cigarettes.  At  the  time  that  I  was  doing  my  ser-  vice,  Deryabin  had  been  a  lieutenant.  We  telephoned  into  the  camp.  In  a  minute,  Deryabin  appeared  at  the  checkpoint.  &quot;Ah!&quot;  he  cried.  &quot;Seryozha's  shown  up!  Let's  have  a  look  at  you  and  see  how  you  turned  out.  I  heard  you  went  and  became  a  writer.  Here,  write  up  this  incident  from  real  life:  One  of  my  prisoners  catapulted  himself  out  of  an  exterior  work  zone.  I  had  brought  a  brigade  of  these  zeks  out  of  the  camp  on  sanitationduty.  I  left  the  convoy.  Took  off  to  have  a  quick  one.  I  come  back-one  zek  is  missing.  He  just  flew  off!  They  bent  down  a  pine  tree,  see,  and  buckled  the  guy  to  the  top  branch  with  a  rigging  belt.  Then  let  go.  Then  in  mid-flight  the  zek  unbuckles  himself,  and  it's  goodbye!  He  flies  just  short  of  the  railway  crossing.  However,  it  turns  out  he  was  just  a  lit-  tle  off  in  his  reckoning.  He  was  hop-  ing  to  land  in  the  snow  by  the  sawmill.  But  it  turns  out  he  bangs  down  in  the  yard  of  the  regional  military  commit-  tee.  And  there's  also  this  detail,  pure  literature:  when  they  grabbed  him,  he  bit  the  commanding  officer  on  the  nose.&quot;  I  introduced  Deryabin  to  my  cousin.  &quot;Call  me  Lyokha,&quot;  Captain  Der-  yabin  said,  holding  out  his  hand.  &quot;Nick,&quot;  my  cousin  said.  &quot;So  what  do  you  think?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It  wouldn't  be  bad  to  go  have  a  little  nip  ourselves.&quot;  We  decided  to  leave  the  barracks  and  go  to  the  nearest  wooded  area.  We  " b"invited  Goderidze  and  Osipenko.  Got  four  bottles  of  booze  out  of  a  briefcase,  sat  down  on  a  fallen  spruce.  &quot;Well,  best  of  luck!&quot;  the  prison  guards  said.  Five  minutes  later,  my  cousin  was  already  embracing  Deryabin.  And  meanwhile  he  kept  asking  him  ques-  tions.  &quot;How's  the  heating?  Are  there  many  dogs  on  guard?  Do  they  do  a  lot  of  solitary  confinement  here?&quot;  &quot;'You'll  be  all  right  here,&quot;  the  soldiers  assured  him.  &quot;A  good  camp,&quot;  Goderidze  kept  re-  peating.  &quot;You'll  get  your  health  back,  rest  up,  look  like  a  weight  lifter.&quot;  &quot;And  there's  a  store  right  nearby,&quot;  Osipenko  put  in,  &quot;just  beyond  the  rail-  road  crossing.  White  wine,  red,  beer  ...&quot;  In  half  an  hour,  Deryabin  was  say-  ing,  &quot;Get  yourselves  jailed,  boys,  while  I'm  still  around.  Because  they're  going  to  retire  Lyokha  Deryabin,  and  then  you'll  regret  it.  Then  the  troubles  will  begin.  Then  you'll  be  in  for  it.  Creeps  will  come,  university  dropouts.  Then  you'll  think  of  Lyokha  Der-  yabin.&quot;  Kolya  jotted  down  Deryabin's  home  telephone  number.  &quot;And  I'll  write  down  yours,&quot;  said  Deryabin.  &quot;No  sense  to  that,&quot;  my  cousin  an-  swered.  &quot;I'll  be  here  in  two  weeks.&quot;  On  the  train  going  home,  he  said,  &quot;So  far,  things  don't  look  too  bad.&quot;  I  almost  burst  into  tears.  Apparent-  ly  the  booze  was  having  its  effect  on  me.  Soon  the  trial  began.  My  cousin  was  again  defended  by  the  same  lawyer, Kiselyov.  The  public  was  continually  breaking  into  applause  for  him.  Curiously  enough,  the  victim  of  the  events,  as  Kiselyovy  portrayed  them,  was  not  the  deceased  man,  Korob-  chenko,  but  my  cousin.  In  his  conclud-  ing  speech,  the  lawyer  said,  &quot;A  human  life  reminds  one  of  a  mountain  road  with  many  dangerous  turns.  One  of  these  turned  out  to  be  fateful  for  the  defendant.  ...&quot;  My  cousin  was  given  three  years.  But  this  time  in  a  maximum-security  labor  camp.  The  day  of  the  trial,  I  received  a  package  from  Chita.  It  con-  tained  ten  packages  of  4a6170616eese  ciga-  rettes-Hi-Lites.  Kolya  was  sent  to  Obukhovo.  He  wrote  me  that  the  camp  was  a  good  one,  and  the  camp  administration  fairly  humane.  Captain  Deryabin  proved  to  be  a  man  of  his  word.  He  assigned  Kolya  thejob  of  bread  slicer.  This  was  a  much-envied  privileged  position.  Meanwhile,  my  cousin's  wife,  Liza,  gave  birth  to  a  little  girl  named  Natasha.  One  day  Liza  called  me  and  said,  &quot;We've  been  granted  a  group  visit  with  Kolya.  If  you're  free,  let's  go  together.  It  will  be  hard  for  me  to  go  alone  with  the  baby.&quot;  Four  of  us  went-Aunt  Tanya,  Liza,  two-month-old  Natasha,  and  I.  It  was  a  hot  August  day.  Natasha  cried  the  whole  way  there.  Liza  was  nervous.  My  aunt  got  a  headache.  We  pulled  up  to  the  checkpoint  and  found  the  visiting  room.  There  were  six  other  visitors  there.  The  prisoners  were  separated  from  us  by  a  glass  bar-  rier.  Liza  unswaddled  the  baby.  My  cousin  still  hadn't  appeared.  I  went  over  to  the  soldier  on  duty.  &quot;And  where  is  Gubarev?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Sit  down  and  wait,&quot;  he  answered.  I  said,  &quot;Telephone  the  orderly  and  call  out  my  cousin.  And  tell  Lyokha  Deryabin  that  I  said  to  have  you  disci-  plined.&quot;  The  duty  guard  changed  his  tone.  &quot;I  don't  take  orders  from  Deryabin.  I  take  orders  from  the  intelligence  of-  ficer.&quot;  &quot;Go  on,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Telephone.&quot;  Just  then  my  cousin  appeared.  He  was  wearing  a  gray  prison  outfit.  His  hair,  shaved  close,  had  grown  out  a  little  to  acrewcut.  He  was  tanned  and  his  bodyseemed  longer.  My  aunt  pushed  a  package  of  ap-  ples,  sausage,  and  chocolate  to  him  through  the  embrasure  in  the  glass  " b"barrier.  Liza  told  her  little  daugh-  ter,  &quot;Tatusya-this  is  Papa.  See,  this  is  Papa!&quot;  But  my  cousin  kept  looking  at  me.  Then  he  said,  &quot;You're  wearing  re-  volting  trousers.  And  they're  such  an  awful  crap  color.  How  about  if  I  put  you  in  touch  with  a  tailor  here?  There's  a  Jew  in  here  who  sews  in-  credible  pants.  Not  only  is  he  a  portnoy  by  trade,  but  his  name  is  Portnoy.  Some  coincidence,  right?&quot;  I  yelled,  &quot;What  are  you  talking  about?  What  difference  does  it  make  what  I'm  wearing?&quot;  &quot;Don't  worry,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It  won't  cost  you  a  thing.  I'll  lay  out  the  money,  you'll  buy  the  material,  and  he'll  sewyou  the  pants.  The  Jew  says,  'The  backside  is  the  face  of  a  man.'  And  just  look  at  yours,  all  those  creases.&quot;  It  seemed  to  me  that  for  a  repeat  offender  he  was  acting  excessively  fas-  tidious.  &quot;The  money,&quot;  my  aunt  said,  sud-  denly  tense,  &quot;where  does  it  come  from?  I  know  that  in  labor  camp  you're  not  supposed  to  have  money.&quot;  &quot;Money  is  like  microbes,&quot;  Kolya  said.  &quot;'They're  everywhere.  When  we  achieve  true  Communism,  it  will  all  be  different.&quot;  &quot;At  least  take  a  look  at  your  daugh-  ter,&quot;  Liza  begged.  &quot;I  saw,&quot;  my  cousin  said.  &quot;A  fine  little  girl.&quot;  &quot;How's  the  food?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Pretty  bad.  Though,  it's  true,  I  don't  eat  in  the  mess  hall.  We  send  one  of  the  guards  out  to  the  food  store.  But  if  often  happens  that  you  can't  get  a  thing  there.  After  one  o'clock  it's  too  late  to  get  sausage  or  eggs....  Yes,  Nikita  really  messed  up  agriculture.  And  to  think  there  was  a  time  when  we  fed  all  of  Europe.  Our  one  hope  is  the  private  sector,  the  restoration  of  NEP-&quot;  &quot;Not  so  loud,&quot;  my  aunt  said.  My  cousin  beckoned  to  the  soldier  standing  guard  to  come  over,  said  something  to  him  in  a  low  voice.  The  guard  started  making  excuses.  We  could  only  catch  fragments  of  sen-  tences.  &quot;Look,  I  asked  you  to  get  it  by  twelve-thirty,&quot;  my  cousin  said.  &quot;I  remember,&quot;  the  guard  told  him.  &quot;Don't  worry.  Tolik  will  be  back  in  ten  minutes.&quot;  &quot;Dima,  I'll  get  insulted  .  .  .&quot;  &quot;Kolya,  you  know  the  kind  of  man  I  am:  I  promise  something,  that  means  &gt;   I'll  do  it.  Tolik  will  be  back  in  liter-  ally  five  minutes.&quot;  &quot;But  my  cousin  wants  a  drink  right  now.  &quot;  I  asked,  &quot;What's  going  o  n?&quot;  My  cousin  answered,  &quot;He  sent  some  ace  o  ut  to  ge  t  vod  ka,  and  that  was  the  end  of  him.  It's  a  real  b  ordello  around  here.  No  military  discipline  at  all.&quot;  &quot;They'll  put  you  in  solitary  con-  finem  ent,  &quot;  Liza  said.  &quot;So  ?  You  think  there  are  no  hum  an  beings  around  solitary?&quot;  The  child  started  crying  again.  Liza  took  offense.  My  cousi  n  seemed  inattentive  and  in  different  to  her.  My  aunt  kept  t  aking  one  medicine  aft  er  another.  Vi  sitin  g  time  wa  s  running  out.  One  of  the  zeks  was  led  away  almost  by  force.  He  kept  trying  to  tear  himself  free  and  then  yelled  out,  &quot;  Nadka,  if  you  fool  around  I'll  kill  you.  I'll  search  you  out  and  cripple  you  like  a  mon-  key-this  I  g  uarant  e  e.  And  remem-  ber,  you  bitch,  Vovik  loves  you!  &quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Time  to  go,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Time's  up.&quot;  My  aunt  turned  away.  Liza  rocked  the  baby.  &quot;And  the  vodka?&quot;  my  cousin  asked.  \xc2\xabYou'll  drink  it  yourself.&quot;  &quot;I  wanted  to  drink  it  with  you.&quot;  &quot;It's  not  worth  it,  brother.  This  isn't  much  of  a  place  for  drinking.&quot;  &quot;Well,  you  would  know.  But  that  guard-I'll  let  him  have  it  all  the  same.  For  me  the  main  thing  in  a  person  is  reliability.&quot;  Suddenly  Tolik  appeared  with  a  bottle.  You  could  tell  he  had  been  hurrying  to  get  there.  &quot;Here  it  is,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;A  ruble-thirty  change.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Do  it  so  I  don't  see  anything,  fel-  las,&quot;  the  soldier  standing  guard  said,  handing  Kolya  an  enamelled  mug.  My  cousin  filled  it  quickly.  Every-  one  took  a  swallow-the  zeks,  their  relatives,  the  guards,  the  soldiers,  the  one  on  duty  himself.  Lifting  the  mug,  one  unshaven,  tat-  tooed  zek  said,  &quot;'To  our  mighty  moth-  erland!  To  Comrade  Stalin  personally!  To  our  victory  over  Fascist  [REDACTED]!  Let's  hear  it  from  the  surface  missiles  -ba-boom!&quot;  &quot;Long  live  the  reactionary  clique  of  Imre  Nagy!&quot;  said  another  zek.  The  guard  touched  my  cousin  on  the  shoulder.  &quot;Nick,  I'm  sorry,  your  time  is  up.&quot;  We  said  goodbye.  I  shook  my  cousin's  hand  through  the  embrasure.  My  aunt  looked  at  her  son  in  silence.  Liza  suddenly  burst  into  tears,  waking  " b"  Natasha,  who  had  justfallen  asleep.  She  started  to  yell.  We  walked  out  and  began  looking  for  a  taxi.  ABOUT  ayear  went  by.  My  cousin  wrote  that  everything  was  going  well.  He  continued  to  work  as  a  bread  slicer,  and  when  Deryabin  retired,  Kolya  became  an  electrical  repair-  man.  Then  a  representative  of  the  Minis-  try  of  Internal  Affairs  got  in  touch  with  my  cousin.  They  had  decided  to  have  a  documentary  film  made  about  labor  camps,  to  show  that  Soviet  camps  were  the  most  humane  in  the  world.  The  film  was  intended  for  internal  consumption.  It  was  entitled,  dryly,  &quot;Methods  of  Detainment  in  Maxi-  mum-Security  Labor  Colonies.&quot;  My  cousin  travelled  around  to  dis-  tant  prison  camps  for  locations.  A  GAZ-61  government  car  was  put  at  his  disposal.  He  was  consigned  all  the  appropriate  equipment.  'T  wo  escorts  would  invariably  accompany  him-  Goderidze  and  Osipenko.  My  cousin  often  managed  to  make  short  visits  home.  He  visited  me  a  few  times.  By  summer,  the  film  was  ready.  My  cousin  had  done  the  work  of  camera-  man,  director,  and  narrator,  all  at  the  same  time.  A  preview  was  arranged,  with  generals  and  colonels  in  the  audi-  ence.  At  the  panel  evaluation  after-  ward,  General  Shurepovy  said,  &quot;A  good,  much-needed  film.  ..  .  As  pleas-  ant  to  watch  as  'The  Thousand  and  One  Nights.  .  .  ..  &quot;  Kolya  got  a  lot  of  praise.  I  finally  understood  the  ruling  trait  in  his  character:  He  was  a  natural-  born  existentialist,  He  could  act  only  in  extreme  situations:  build  a  career  only  in  prison,  fight  for  life  only  on  the  edge  of  the  abyss.  Finally,  that  fall,  he  was  released.  What  follows  will  sound  familiar.  My  aunt  telephoned  Yuri  German.  My  cousin  was  hired  as  an  unskilled  work-  man  at  a  documentary-film  studio.  T  wo  months  later,  he  was  working  as  a  sound  technician.  And  in  another  half  year  he  was  head  of  the  depart-  ment  of  acquisitions.  Just  about  the  same  time,  I  was  laid  off  from  work,  this  time  for  good.  I  wrote  short  stories  and  lived  off  my  mother's  pension.  When  my  aunt  fell  ill  and  died,  a  portrait  of  a  gray-eyed,  charming  man  was  found  among  her  papers.  It  was  Kirov's  former  deputy,  Vladimir  Lukyanov.  He  looked  like  my  cousin,  though  by  now  a  considerably  younger  version  of  him.  Even  before  this,  Kolya  had  known  who  his  father  was.  From  then  on,  everyone  spoke  openly  about  it.  My  cousin  could  have  attempted  to  get  in  touch  with  his  relatives.  But  he  didn't  want  to.  He  said  to  me,  &quot;I  have  you,  and  no  one  else.&quot;  Then  he  thought  a  moment  and  added,  &quot;How  strange!  Me  with  a  Rus-  sian  father,  you  with  a  Jewish  one-  but  we  both  like  vodka  with  beer.&quot;  IN  1979,  I  decided  to  emigrate.  My  cousin  could  have  applied,  too,  be-  cause  his  official  father  was  Jewish,  but  he  said  he  wouldn't  go.  He  had  once  again  begun  to  drink  and  get  into  fights  in  restaurants.  He  was  threatened  with  being  laid  off  from  work.  It  was  as  though  he  could  only  live  in  confinement.  When  he  was  out  of  prison,  he  let  himself  go  and  even  got  sick.  I  saidto  him  one  last  time,  &quot;Let's  both  go.&quot;  He  reacted  listlessly  and  sadly.  &quot;'That  whole  business  isn't  for  me.  You  have  to  take  all  those  official  steps  .  ..  you  have  to  assure  everyone  that  you're  Jewish.  I'd  find  it  embar-  rassing.  If  only  it  was  one-two-three,  in  the  middle  of  a  hangover,  and  there  you  are  in  Rome,  right  on  Capitoline  Hill.&quot;  At  the  airport,  my  cousin  cried.  Ap-  parently,  he  had  aged.  Besides  which,  it's  always  harder  to  stay  than  to  leave.  For  four  years  now,  I've  lived  in  New  York,  and  for  four  years  I've  been  sending  packages  to  Lenin-  grad.  And  suddenly  one  arrived  from  there.  I  opened  it  in  the  post  office.  In  it  lay  a  blue  knitted  pullover  with  an  emblem  of  the  Olympic  Games.  And  a  heavy  metal  corkscrew  of  the  latest  Soviet  model.  With  greetings  from  Kolya.  I  thought  to  myself,  What  were  the  most  precious  things  I  ever  got  in  my  life?  And  I  realized:  four  lumps  of  sugar,  some  4a6170616eese  cigarettes  called  Hi-Lites,  and  now  this  corkscrew.  I  covered  my  face  with  my  hands.  I  understood  that  I  was  alone. "