 b"Miss  Vera  Brown,  she  wrote  M  on  the  blackboard,  letter  by  letter  in  flawlessly  oval  Palmer  method.  Our  teacher  for  the  fifth  grade.  The  name  might  as  well  have  been  graven  in  stone.  As  she  called  the  roll,  her  voice  was  as  gentle  as  the  expression  in  her  beau-  tiful  dark  brown  eyes.  She  reminded  me  of  pansies.  When  she  called  on  Alvin  Ahrens  to  recite  and  he  said,  &quot;I  know  but  I  can't  say,&quot;  the  class  snick-  ered  but  she  said,  &quot;Try,&quot;  encourag-  ingly,  and  waited,  to  be  sure  that  he  didn't  know  the  answer,  and  then  said,  to  one  of  the  hands  waving  in  the  air,  &quot;Tell  Alvin  what  one-fifth  of  three-  eighths  is.&quot;  If  we  arrived  late  to  school,  red-faced  and  out  of  breath  and  bursting  with  the  excuse  we  had  thought  up  on  the  way,  before  we  could  speak  she  said,  &quot;I'm  sure  you  couldn't  help  it.  Close  the  door,  please,  and  take  your  seat.&quot;  If  she  kept  us  after  school  it  was  not  to  scold  us  but  to  help  us  past  the  hard  part.  Somebody  left  a  big  red  apple  on  her  desk  for  her  to  find  when  she  came  into  the  classroom,  and  she  smiled  and  put  it  in  her  desk,  out  of  sight.  Some-  body  else  left  some  purple  asters,  which  sheput  in  her  drink-  ing  glass.  After  that  the  presents  kept  com-  ing.  She  was  the  only  pretty  teacher  in  the  school.  She  never  had  to  ask  us  to  be  quiet  or  to  stop  throwing  erasers.  We  would  not  have  dreamed  of  doing  anything  that  would  displease  her.  Somebody  wormed  it  out  of  her  when  her  birthday  was.  While  she  was  out  of  the  room  the  class  voted  to  present  her  with  flowers  from  the  green-  house.  Then  they  took  another  vote  and  sweet  )  peas  won.  When  she  \\;  saw  the  florist's  box  waiting  on  her  desk,  she  said,  &quot;Oh?&quot;  &quot;Look  inside,&quot;  we  all  said.  Her  delicate  fingers  seemed  to  take  forever  to  remove  the  ribbon.  In  the  end,  she  raised  the  lid  of  the  box  and  exclaimed.  &quot;Read  the  card!&quot;  we  shouted.  Many  Happy  Returns  to  Miss  Vera  Brown,  from  the  Fifth  Grade,  it  said.  She  put  her  nose  in  the  flowers  and  said,  &quot;Thank  you  all  very,  very  much,&quot;  and  then  turned  our  minds  to  the  spelling  lesson  for  the  day.  After  school  we  escorted  her  down-  town  in  a  body  to  a  special  matin\xc3\xa9e  of  D.  W.  Griffith's  &quot;Hearts  of  the  [REDACTED];  She  was  not  allowed  to  buy  her  ticket.  We  paid  for  everything.  We  meant  to  have  her  for  our  teacher  forever.  We  intended  to  pass  right  up  through  the  sixth,  seventh,  and  eighth  grades  and  on  into  hlgh  school  taking  her  with  us.  But  that  isn't  what  happened.  One  day  there  was  a  substitute  teacher.  We  expected  our  real  teacher  to  be  back  the  next  day  but  she  wasn't.  Week  after  week  passed,  and  the  substitute  continued  to  sit  at  Miss  Brown's  desk,  calling  on  us  to  recite  and  giving  out  tests  and  handing  them  back  with  grades  on  them,  and  we  went  on  acting  the  way  we  had  when  Miss  Brown  was  there  because  we  didn't  want  her  to  come back  and  find  we  hadn't  been  nice  to  the  substitute.  One  Monday  morning  she  cleared  her  throat  and  said  that  Miss  Brown  was  sick  and  not  coming  back  for  the  rest  of  the  term.  In  the  fall  we  had  passed  on  into  the  sixth  grade  and  she  was  still  not  back.  Benny  Irish's  mother  found  out  that  she  was  living  with  an  aunt  and  uncle  on  a  farm  a  mile  or  so  beyond  the  edge  of  town,  and  told  my  mother,  who  told  somebody  in  my  hearing.  One  after-  noon  after  school  Benny  and  I  got  on  our  bikes  and  rode  out  to  see  her.  At  the  place  where  the  road  turned  off  to  go  to  the  cemetery  and  the  Chautau-  qua  grounds,  there  was  a  red  barn  with  a  huge  circus  poster  on  it,  show-  ing  the  entire  inside  of  the  Sells-Floto  Circus  tent  and  everything  that  was  going  on  in  all  three  rings.  In  the  summertime,  riding  in  the  back  seat  of  my  father's  open  Chalmers,  I  used  to  crane  my  neck  as  we  passed  that  turn,  hoping  to  see  every  last  tiger  and  flying-trapeze  artist,  but  it  was  never  possible.  The  poster  was  weather-  beaten  now,  with  loose  strips  of  paper  hanging  down.  It  was  getting  dark  when  we  wheeled  our  bikes  up  the  lane  of  the  farmhouse  where  Miss  Brown  lived.  &quot;You  knock,&quot;  Benny  said  as  we  started  up  on  the  porch.  &quot;No,  you  do  it,&quot;  I  said.  We  hadn't  thought  ahead  to  what  it  would  be  like  to  see  her.  We  wouldn'thave  been  surprised  if  she  had  come  to  the  door  her-  self  and  thrown  up  her  hands  in  astonishment  when  she  saw  who  it  was,  but  instead  a  much  older  woman  opened  the  door  and  said,  &quot;What  do  you  want?&quot;  &quot;We  came  to  see  Miss  Brown,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;We're  in  her  class  at  school,&quot;  Benny  ex-  plained.  I  could  see  that  the  woman  was  trying  to  decide  whether  she  should  tell  us  to  go  away,  but  she  said,  &quot;I'll  find  out  if  she  wants  to  see  you,&quot;  and  left  us  standing  on  the  " b"porch  for  what  seemed  like  a  long  time.  Then  she  appeared  again  and  said,  &quot;You  can  come  in  now.&quot;  As  we  followed  her  through  the  front  parlor  I  could  make  out  in  the  dim  light  that  there  was  an  old-fash-  ioned  organ  like  the  kind  you  used  to  see  in  country  churches,  and  linoleum  on  the  floor,  and  stiff  uncomfortable  chairs,  and  family  portraits  behind  curved  glass  in  big  oval  frames.  The  room  beyond  it  was  lighted  by  a  coal-oil  lamp  but  seemed  ever  so  much  darker  than  the  unlighted  room  we  had  just  passed  through.  Propped  up  on  pillows  in  a  big  double  bed  was  our  teacher,  but  so  changed.  Her  arms  were  like  sticks,  and  all  the  life  in  her  seemed  concentrated  in  her  eyes,  which  had  dark  circles  around  them  and  were  enormous.  She  managed  a  flicker  of  recognition  but  I  was  struck  dumb  by  the  fact  that  she  didn't  seem  glad  to  see  us.  She  didn't  belong  to  us  anymore.  She  belonged  to  her  ill-  ness.  Benny  said,  &quot;I  hope  you  get  well  soon.&quot;  The  angel  who  watches  over  little  boys  who  know  but  they  can't  say  it  saw  to  it  that  we  didn't  touch  anything.  And  in  a  minute  we  were  outside,  on  our  bicycles,  riding  through  the  dusk  toward  the  turn  in  the  road  and  town.  A  few  weeks  later  I  read  in  the  Lincoln  Evening  Cowrier  that  Miss  Vera  Brown,  who  taught  the  fifth  grade  in  Central  School,  had  died  of  tuberculosis,  aged  twenty-three  years  and  seven  months.  SOMETIMES  I  went  with  my  mother  when  she  put  flowers  on  the  graves  of  my  grandparents.  The  cinder  roads  wound  through  the  ceme-  tery  in  ways  she  understood  and  I  didn't,  and  I  would  read  the  names  on  the  monuments:  Brower,  Cadwallader,  Andrews,  Bates,  Mitchell.  In  loving  memory  of.  Infant  daughter  of.  Be-  loved  wife  of.  The  cemetery  was  so  large  and  so  many  people  were  buried  there,  it  would  have  taken  a  long  time  to  locate  a  particular  grave  if  you  didn't  know  where  it  was  already.  But  I  know,  the  way  I  sometimes  know  what  is  in  wrapped  packages,  that  the  elderly  woman  who  let  us  in  and  who  took  care  of  Miss  Brown  during  her  last  illness  went  to  the  cemetery  regu-  larly  and  poured  the  rancid  water  out  of  the  tin  receptacle  that  was  sunk  below  the  level  of  the  grass  at  the  foot  of  her  grave,  and  filled  it  with  fresh  water  from  a  nearby  faucet  and  ar-  ranged  the  flowers  she  had  brought  in  such  a  way  as  to  please  the  eye  of  the  living  and  the  closed  eyes  of  the  dead. "