 b"OUR  boys,  Will  and  Phil,  are   getting  married.  Will  met  Lucy  in  a  CVS  store  on  a  Saturday  night.  All  those  mirrors,  and  all  those  lights  and  shimmering  shampoos  and  pink  pocket  combs-  of  course  they  fell  in  love.  Phil  saw  Betsy  in  a  McDonald's  Town  House.  It  was  the  last  day  of  summer,  and  she  was  standing  by  the  napkin  dis-  penser,  smiling.  One  wedding's  next  week  (Will's),  and  one  wedding's  next  month  (Phil's).  It  all  happened  so  fast.  My  wife  and  I  like  to  stand  in  the  doorway  to  Phil's  bedroom,  where  the  surface  of  every  remain-  ing  object  is  bright  and  calm.  We'll  cross  the  hall  to  Will's,  a  triangu-  lar  room  with  an  inch  of  dust,  and  linger.  Will,  the  older  boy,  plays  the  piano  in  a  Sheraton  piano  bar.  We  go  to  see  him  all  the  time;  we  close  our  eyes  when  he  plays.  The  piano's  two  feet  off  the  ground,  and  gives  Will  a  lovely  superiority.  On  my  wife's  insistence,  we  sit  behind  him,  at  his  heels,  so  he  won't  have  to  look  down  and  see  my  bald  spot.  Nowadays,  every  evening,  Lucy  comes  to  listen.  A  sweet,  serious  girl  who  holds  a  beer  as  if  it  were  a  candle,  she  stays  front  and  center  and  stares  up  into  Will's  open  face.  (I  get  to  see  his  face  only  when  I  go  to  the  men's  room.)  Will  fills  the  air  with  mournful  tunes,  which  move  his  mother  to  tears,  or  sad  stares  into  space,  and  surprise  his  father.  Pretty  wistful  longings  for  a  Sheraton,  if  you  ask  me.  During  breaks,  Will  goes  down  and  sits  with  Lucy.  They  seem  so  solemn.  After  Will's  last  song,  when  the  second-shift  pianist  starts  to  play,  they  come  by  our  table.  Will  kisses  his  mother.  Lucy  kisses  us  both.  Lucy  holds  Will's  hand  and  reports  the  latest  wedding  news:  three  hundred  people  under  a  tent  in  her  parents'  back  yard,  a  twelve-piece  orchestra,  waiters  in  frock  coats,  a  fountain  of  baby's  breath  and  lilies,  elaborate  ice  sculptures,  a  cake  in  the  shape  of  a  piano  (which  embarrasses  Will),  five  hundred  bal-  loons,  &quot;Will  and  Lucy&quot;  napkins  and  matches  and  mints.  While  Lucy  talks,  Will  usually  studies  his  other  hand  and  nods  his  head,  as  if  he  were  listen-  ing  to  something  far  away  and  slightly  improbable.  At  some  point,  I'm  sure  to  look  his  way  and  wink.  He'll  protest  mildly,  and  try  to  wave  me  off,  and  I'll  slip  him  a  few  dollars.  Then  he'll  just  shrug  and  fix  his  tie.  They're  shy  boys  at  eye  level.  Phil's  a  housepainter.  We  takecar  rides  in  the  country  and  look  for  his  work.  He  specializes  in  big  white  houses  with  monumental  fencing.  Usually,  there's  an  enormous  barn.  The  prettiest  houses  have  a  profusion  of  something,  rows  of  carriage  lamps  or  thin  classical  pillars,  which  Phil  wraps  in  white.  It  can  be  like  a  snow  scene,  or  a  wedding  cake.  Every  time  we  see  him,  he's  got  a  speck  of  paint  somewhere  on  his  face.  When  we  first  heard  about  Betsy  Brown,  we  pictured  a  white  house  and  a  girl  in  red.  We  never  imagined  the  golden  arches.  When  Phil  finally  brought  Betsy  over  to  meet  us,  she  was  pale,  awkward,  nervous,  and  smiling.  (I've  never  seen  a  girl  hold  a  smile  longer  than  Betsy  Brown.)  But  she  kept  a  few  fingers  spread  on  Phil's  knee  and  touched  Phil  on  the  ear  whenever  he  said  something  funny,  and  that  endeared  her  to  us.  We're  captivated.  Phil's  captivated.  Betsy  blushes  and  shakes  when  some-  one  mentions  the  wedding.  She  and  Phil  plan  a  small  one,  without  photo-  graphs.  I\xe2\x80\x99VE  been  around  the  neighborhood  a  hundred  times,  looking  at  things.  Will  and  Phil  always  liked  it  here,  I  think.  There  are  hills  (though  not  as  big  as  they  wanted)  and  plenty  of  shade  trees.  There  are  green  lawns  and  blue  pools.  Depending  on  the  sea-  son,  mysterious  mounds  of  cut  grass,  dried  leaves,  or  chunky  snow.  Every-  49  body  I  see  cries,  &quot;Congratulations!,&quot;  honks  the  horn.  &quot;Thank  you&quot;  is  all  I  can  say.  Couples  walk  to  the  edge  of  their  property  and  wave  at  me.  Around  the  bend,  if  I  keep  going,  a  brand-new  Woolworth's  appears,  full  of  promise.  Sometimes,  late  at  night,  my  wife  catches  me  at  the  refrigerator.  &quot;I'm  nervous,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;I  can't  sleep.&quot;  She  stares  at  the  rows  of  jars  behind  me.  &quot;You  won't  get  into  your  tux-  edo,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;You'll  have  to  take  small  steps  and  hold  your  breath  when  you  dance.&quot;  Phil  and  Betsy.  Will  and  Lucy.  It's  a  giant,  strange  happiness.  It's  too  big  for  our  house.  It  lies  across  our  front  lawn  and  half  onto  our  neighbors'.  I  want  to  yell,  &quot;Hey,  boys,  come  look  at  this  animal!&quot;  I  want  to  pull  my  saddle  from  the  wall,  my  hat  from  the  hook,  and  try  to  ride  that  thing.  Weddings!  My  wife  is  watching  me  thesedays.  &quot;Jimmy,  you'd  better  behave  your-  self,&quot;  she  says.  We  laugh.  She  swears  she's  serious.  She's  called  the  boys  to  warn  them  about  me.  &quot;I  know  you,&quot;  she  says  mysteriously,  wagging  her  finger.  &quot;You're  a  monkey  in  the  trees.&quot;  As  we  lie  in  bed  and  I  keep  rolling  over  and  flipping  my  pillow,  she  whistles.  &quot;A  snake  in  the  grass,&quot;  she  says.  Sometimes  she  looks  at  me  as  if  I  were  capable  of  anything.  The  brides,  after  all,  have  arrived.  We're  happy.  We're  lucky.  &quot;Jimmy,&quot;  my  wife  pleads,  &quot;don't  do  anything  crazy.&quot; "