 b"SAKRETE  ON  our  street,  fourteen  garbage  cans  are  now  missing.  The  garbage  cans  from  One  Seven-  teen  and  One  Nineteen  disappeared  last  night.  This  is  not  a  serious  mat-  ter,  but  on  the  other  hand  we  can't  sit  up  all  night  watching  over  our  gar-  bage  cans.  It  is  probably  best  described  as  an  annoyance.  One  Twelve,  One  Twenty-two,  and  One  Thirty-one  have  bought  new  plastic  garbage  cans  at  Barney's  Hardware  to  replace  those  missing.  We  are  thus  down  eleven  garbage  cans,  net.  Many  people  are  using  large  dark  plastic  garbage  bags.  The  new  construction  at  the  hospital  at  the  end  of  the  block  has  displaced  a  number  of  rats.  Rats  are  not  much  bothered  by  plastic  garbage  bags.  In  fact,  if  I  were  ordered  to  imagine  what  might  most  profitably  be  invented  by  a  committee  of  rats,  it  would  be  the  plastic  garbage  bag.  The  rats  run  up  and  down  our  street  all  night  long.  If  I  were  ordered  to  imagine  who  is  stealing  our  garbage  cans,  I  could  not.  I  very  much  doubt  that  my  wife  is  doing  it.  Some  of  the  garbage  cans  on  our  street  are  battered  metal,  others  are  heavy  green  plastic.  Heavy  green  yey  ~     plastic  or  heavy  black  plastic  predomi-  nates.  Some  of  the  garbage  cans  have  the  numbers  of  the  houses  they  belong  to  painted  on  their  sides  or  lids,  with  white  paint.  Usually  by  someone  with  only  the  crudest  sense  of  the  art  of  lettering.  One  Nineteen,  which  has  among  its  tenants  a  gifted  commercial  artist,  is  an  exception.  No  one  exces-  sively  famous  lives  on  our  street,  to  my  knowledge,  therefore  the  morbid  at-  tention  that  the  garbage  of  the  famous  sometimes  attracts  would  not  bea  fac-  tor.  The  Precinct  says  that  no  other  street  within  the  precinct  has  reported  similar  problems.  If  my  wife  is  stealing  the  garbage  cans,  in  the  night,  while  I  am  drunk  and  asleep,  what  is  she  doing  with  them?  They  are  not  in  the  cellar,  I've  looked  (although  I  don't  like  going  down  to  the  cellar,  even  to  replace  a  blown  fuse,  because  of  the  rats).  My  wife  has  a  yellow  Pontiac  convertible.  No  one  has  these  anymore,  but  I  can  imagine  her  lifting  garbage  cans  into  the  back  seat  of  the  yellow  Pontiac  convertible,  at  four  o'clock  in  the  morning,  when  I  am  dreaming  of  be-  ing  onstage,  dreaming  of  having  to   perform  a  drum  concerto  with  only  one  drumstick.  ...  On  our  street,  twenty-one  garbage  cans  are  now  missing.  New  infamies  have  been  announced  by  One  Thirty-  one  through  One  Forty-three-seven  in  a  row,  and  on  the  same  side  of  the  street.  Also,  depredations  at  One  Six-  teen  and  One  Sixty-four.  We  have  put  out  dozens  of  cans  of  D-Con  but  the  rats  ignore  them.  Why  should  they  go  for  the  D-Con  when  they  can  have  the  remnants  of  Helen  Busse's  Boeeuf  Ros-  sini,  for  which  she  is  known  for  six  blocks  in  every  direction?  We  eat  well,  on  this  street,  there's  no  denying  it.  Except  for  the  nursing  students  at  One  Fifty-eight,  and  why  should  they  eat  well-they're  students,  are  they  not?  My  wife  cooks  soft-shell  crabs,  in  sea-  son,  breaded,  dusted  with  tasty  cay-  enne,  deep-fried.  Barney's  Hardware  has  run  out  of  garbage  cans  and  will  not  get  another  shipment  until  No-  vember.  Any  new  garbage  cans  will  have  to  be  purchased  at  Budget  Hard-  ware,  far,  far  away  on  Second  Street.  Cynthia,  at  Custom  Care  Cleaners,  asks  why  my  wife  has  been  acting  so  peculiar  lately.  &quot;Peculiar?&quot;  I  say.  &quot;In  what  way  do  you  mean?&quot;  Dr.  Maugham,  who  lives  at  One  Forty-  four  where  he  also  has  his  office,  has  formed  a  committee.  Mr.  Wilkens,  from  One  Nineteen,  Pally  Wimber,  from  One  Twenty-nine,  and  my  wife  are  on  the  committee.  The  committee  meets  at  night,  while  I  sleep,  dream-  ing,  my  turn  in  the  batting  order  has  come  up  and  I  stand  at  the  plate,  batless.  .  ..  There  are  sixty-two  houses  on  our  street,  four-story  brownstones  for  the  most  part.  Fifty-two  garbage  cans  are  now  missing.  Rats  riding  upon  the  backs  of  other  rats  gallop  up  and  down  our  street,  at  night.  The  committee  is  unable  to  decide  whether  to  call  itself  the  Can  Committee  or  the  Rat  Com-  mittee.  The  City  has  sent  an  inspector  who  stood  marvelling,  at  midnight,  at  the  activity  on  our  street.  He  is  filing  a  report.  He  urges  that  the  remaining  garbage  cans  be  filled  with  large  stones.  My  wife  has  appointed  me  a  subcommittee  of  the  larger  committee  with  the  task  of  finding  large  stones.  Is  there  a  peculiar  look  on  her  face  as  she  makes  the  appointment?  Dr.  Maugham  has  bought  a  shotgun-a  twelve-gauge  over-and-under.  Mr.  Wilkens  has  bought  a  Chase  bow  and  two  dozen  hunting  arrows.  I  have  bought  a  flute  and  an  instruction  book.  If  I  were  ordered  to  imagine  who  is  " b"stealing  our  garbage  cans,  the  Louis  Ascher  family  might  spring  to  mind,  not  as  culprits  but  as  proximate  cause.  The  Louis  Ascher  family  has  a  large  income  and  a  small  apartment,  in  One  Twenty-one.  The  Louis  Ascher  fam-  ily  is  given  to  acquiring  things,  and  because  of  the  size  of  the  Louis  Ascher  apartment  must  dispose  of  old  things  in  order  to  accommodate  new  things.  Sometimes  the  old  things  disposed  of  by  the  Louis  Ascher  family  are  scarcely  two  weeks  old.  Therefore,  the  garbage  at  One  Twenty-one  is  closely  followed  in  the  neighborhood,  in  the  way  that  the  sales  and  bargains  listed  in  the  newspapers  are  closely  followed.  The  committee,  which  feels  that  the  garbage  of  the  Louis  Ascher  family  may  be  misrepresenting  the  neighbor-  hood  to  the  criminal  community,  made  a  partial  list  of  the  items  disposed  of  by  the  Louis  Ascher  family  during  the  week  of  September  12th:  one  mortar  and  pestle,  majolicaware;  one  English  creammaker  (cream  is  made  by  mixing  sweet  butter  and  milk);  one  set  green  earthenware  geranium-leaf  plates;  one  fruit  ripener  designed  by  scientists  at  the  University  of  [REDACTED],  Plexi-  glas;  one  nylon  umbrella  tent  with  aluminum  poles;  one  combination  fountain  pen  and  clock  with  LED  readout;  one  mini  hole-puncher-and-  confetti-maker;  one  pistol-grip  spring-  loaded  flyswatter;  one  cast-iron  tortilla  press;  one  ivory  bangle  with  elephant-  hair  accent;  and  much,  much  more.  But  while  I  do  not  doubt  that  the  excesses  of  the  Louis  Ascher  family  are  misrepresenting  the  neighborhood  to  the  criminal  community,  I  cannot  bring  myself  to  support  even  a  resolu-  tion  of  censure,  since  the  excesses  of  the  Louis  Ascher  family  have  given  us  much  to  talk  about  and  not  a  few  sets  of  green  earthenware  geranium-leaf  plates  over  the  years.  I  reported  to  my  wife  that  large  stones  were  hard  to  come  by  in  the  city.  &quot;Stones,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Large  stones.&quot;  I  purchased  two  hundred  pounds  of  Sakrete  at  Barney's  Hardware,  to  make  stones  with.  You  need  only  add  water  and  stir,  and  you  have  made  a  stone  as  heavy  and  brutish  as  a  stone  made  by  God  himself.  I  am  temporari-  ly  busy,  in  the  cellar,  shaping  Sakrete  to  resemble  this,  that,  and  the  other,  but  mostly  stones-a  good-looking  stone  is  not  the  easiest  of  achieve-  ments.  Ritchie  Beck,  the  little  boy  from  One  Ten,  who  is  always  alone  on  the  sidewalk  during  the  day,  smil-  ing  at  strangers,  helps  me.  I  once   bought  him  a  copy  of  Mechanix  Illus-  trated,  which  I  myself  read  avidly  as  a  boy.  Harold,  who  owns  Custom  Care  Cleaners  and  also  owns  a  Cessna,  has  offered  to  fly  over  our  street  at  night  and  drop  bombs  made  of  lethal  dry-  cleaning  fluid  on  the  rats.  There  is  a  channel  down  the  [REDACTED]  he  can  take  (as  long  as  he  stays  under  eleven  hun-  dred  feet),  a  quick  left  turn,  the  bomb-  ing  run,  then  a  dashback  up  the  Hud-  son.  They  willpull  his  ticket  if  he's  caught,  he  says,  but  at  that  hour  of  the  night.  ...  I  show  my  wife  the  new  stones.  &quot;I  don't  like  them,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;They  don't  look  like  real  stones.&quot;  She  is  not  wrong,  they  look  in  factlike  badly  thrown  pots,  as  if  they  had  been  done  by  a  potter  with  no  thumbs.  The  com-  mittee,  which  has  named  itself  the  Special  Provisional  Unnecessary-Rat  Team  (SPURT),  has  acquired  arm-  bands  and  white  steel  helmets  and  is  discussing  a  secret  grip  by  which  its  members  will  identify  themselves  to  each  other.  There  are  now  no  garbage  cans  on  our  street-no  garbage  cans  left  to  steal.  A  committee  of  rats  has  joined  with  the  Special  Provisional  committee  in  order  to  deal  with  the  situation,  which,  the  rats  have  made  known,  is  attracting  unwelcome  rat  elements  from  other  areas  of  the  city.  Members  of  the  two  committees  exchange  secret  grips.  My  wife  drives  groups  of  rats  here  and  there  in  her  yellow  Pontiac  convertible,  attending  important  meet-  ings.  The  crisis,  she  says,  will  be  a  long  one.  She  has  never  been  happier."