 b"WORLD  literature  is  like  a  great  river,  with  its  source  situated  somewhere  in  the  dim  past  not  far  from  man's  own  begin-  nings  and  its  terminus  ever  receding  before  us  in  the  mists  that  veil  the  destiny  of  our  race.  Some  men,  such  as  Dickens  or  Tolstoy,  ride  the  middle  of  the  river,  and,  in  turn,  contribute  their  own  works  to  the  surging  of  its  flow.  Other  writers,  whose  names  and  works  you  have  never  heard  of,  might  be  compared  to  small  drops  of  water  on  the  waves  along  the  river's  edge.  But  of  those  many  thousand  souls  who  share  the  mysterious  urge  to  set  words  on  paper  it  might  be  said  that,  be  they  famous  or  be  they  unknown,  all  are  partof  this  same  river.  To  a  greater  or  lesser  degree,  they  all  partake  of  its  waters  in  the  high  communion  of  their  art.  Why  is  it,  then,  that  in  the  broad  spectrum  of  humanity  writers  should  be  the  meanest,  the  pettiest,  the  most  jealous,  mudslinging,  backstabbing,  self-centered,  conceited  people  who  ever  lived?  It  is  only  within  the  last  few  months  that  I  have  come  to  an  understanding  of  just  how  bad  writers  can  be.  The  event  that  really  opened  my  eyes  was  when  the  National  Aero-  nautics  and  Space  Administration  (NASA)  selected  me,  out  of  a  multitude  of  other  writers,  to  participate  in  their  five-year  Community  in  Space  pro-  gram  on  an  orbiting  station  twenty  thousand  miles  above  the  earth.  I  won't  bother  to  review  all  the  nasty,  sniping  attacks  on  me  which  many  of  the  unsuccessful  candidates  for  the  po-  sition  have  given  vent  to  in  national  publications.  I  only  wonder  if  the  space  colonists  (all  of  them  leaders  in  their  fields)  who  were  chosen  to  repre-  sent  the  other  professions  had  to  en-  duresuch  a  torrent  of  abuse  from  their  colleagues.  My  feeling  is  that  they  did  not.  It  has  been  written  that  my  selection  was  the  result  of  backstairs  political  maneuvers  on  my  part.  When  you  see  that  written  anywhere,  you  will  know  for  sure  that  the  author  has  never  met  me,  and  that,  in  fact,  he  knows  less  about  me  than  he  does  about  the  Presi-  dent  of  Togo.  As  anyone  with  even  a  slight  acquaintance  with  me  will  tell  you,  I  am  a  man  who  was  born,  and  has  remained,  a  truthteller;  that  is  the  very  core  of  my  nature.  To  speak  any-  thing  other  than  the  truth  is  an  act  of  which  I  am  almost  physically  incapa-  ble.  So,  as  it  happens,  the  hypocrisy,  flattery,  and  glad-handing  that  grease  the  social  wheels  for  millions  of  my  fellows  are  skills  far  beyond  my  ken.  The  unblinking  light  of  my  regard  falls  the  same  upon  everyone  (includ-  ing  myself)  without  fear  or  favor.  This  troublesome  honesty  of  mine  has  stood  in  the  way  of  my  advancement  more  times  than  I  can  count,  but  I  accept  its  disadvantages  without  com-  plaint;  you  see,  it's  just  the  way  I  am.  Now,  to  set  the  record  straight,  and  to  put  a  stop  to  the  half-truths  and  rumors,  I  will  tell  how  NASA  came  to  choose  me.  I  am  afraid  it  is  a  simple  story,  entirely  devoid  of  exciting  se-  cret  schemes.  One  day,  I  picked  up  a  newspaper  and  saw  the  announce-  ment  that  NASA  was  looking  for  top  members  of  some  forty  different  pro-  fessions  to  live  for  five  years  in  a  crea-  tive  community  housed  in  an  orbiting  space  station.  By  chance,  I  was  un-  employed  at  the  time,  and  eager  for  new  challenges.  I  rushed  down  to  the  Pentagon,  found  the  offices  of  the  Air  Force,  and  put  my  name  on  the  sign-  up  sheet.  My  name  was  not  at  thetop  of  the  list;  nor  was  it  at  the  bottom.  Then  I  was  told  that  anyone  who  wished  to  apply  had  sixty  days  to  sub-  mit  the  necessary  recommendations,  as  well  as  a  sample  of  his  or  her  most  recent  work.  I  gave  much  thought  to  the  sample  I  would  submit.  I  wanted  it  to  have  a  little  something  for  every-  one;  I  wanted  it  to  be  fresh;  I  wanted  it  to  grapple  with  large  themes.  So,  first  of  all,  I  went  out  and  bought  a  middle-sized  motor  home  with  my  own  savings.  I  was  convinced  that  I  must  leave  behind  the  comfortable  routines  of  my  life  up  to  that  point.  After  much  painful  soul-searching,  I  decided  to  split  once  and  for  all  from  my  estranged  wife.  I  had  lost  her  boy-  friend's  phone  number,  so  I  left  a  note  on  her  car  informing  her  of  my  inten-  tion.  Then,  just  to  be  on  the  safe  side,  I  also  broke  up  with  the  guy  at  the  newsstand,  the  boy  who  serviced  my  vehicle,  and  a  tolltaker  on  the  New  Jersey  Turnpike.  I  set  of  down  the  highway  with  her  recriminatioris  still  ringing  in  my  ears.  MY  first  stop  was  New  England.  I  P  icked  a  comfortable  campsite  and  got  right  to  work.  Immediately,  I  was  pleased  to  notice  that  the  stately,  brooding  shadows  of  Hawthorne,  Thoreau,  and  Emerson  fell  across  my  typewriter  as  I  chronicled  life  in  the  land  of  the  three-Martini  lunch,  " b"where  Ivy  League-educated  denizens  of  sprawling  bedroom  communities  improvise  unconventional  marriages  in  the  sexual  confusion  of  the  later  twen-  tieth  century.  That  was  fun;  but  I  be-  gan  to  worry  that  I  was  speaking  in  a  voice  that  could  do  with  a  bit  more  556e6974656420537461746573n  authenticity.  So  I  headed  out  on  Interstate  90.  As  I  passed  Buf-  falo,  I  could  feel  my  voice  becoming  more  authentic.  [REDACTED]-even  more  authentic.  Then  [REDACTED].  Aah-  authenticity  was  now  all  around  me.  I  spent  eleven  days  on  the  outskirts  of  that  city,  creating,  growing,  and  learning.  (For  example,  did  you  know  that  [REDACTED]  is  actually  mot  the  windiest  city  in  this  country?  In  fact,  it's  rather  far  down  the  list.)  Then  I  was  back  on  the  highway.  When  I  reached  the  Far  West,  I  noticed  that  my  prose  suddenly  became  as  vast  and  sprawling  as  the  landscape  thatsur-  rounded  it.  Eventually,  through  a  careful  budgeting  of  time  and  money,  I  was  able  to  pursue  my  stylistic  development  in  forty-six  of  the  fifty  states.  Then  I  drove  back  to  Wash-  ington,  to  type  up  my  final  copy  and  turn  it  in.  Reading  it  over,  I  discov-  ered  that  I'd  found  a  large  theme,  all  right.  That  theme  was  [REDACTED]  itself.  The  news  thatI  had  made  the  final  cut  absolutely  floored  me.  I  was  even  more  stunned  when  I  showed  up  at  the  Air  Force  offices  and  got  a  look  at  the  nine  other  finalists.  Among  them  were  some  of  the  most  famous  writers  in  the  country,  people  whose  names  you  would  recognize  in  an  instant.  We  were  all  given  a  mandatory  essay  ques-  tion  to  complete  in  three  hours.  I  was  sure  I'd  be  over  my  head  in  competi-  tion  the  likes  of  this,  but  I  resolved  to  do  my  best.  Our  springboard  topic  was  &quot;What  Will  the  New  Year  Bring?&quot;  Whew!  I  chewed  the  eraser  on  my  pencil  for  a  moment,  and  then  my  hand  began  fairly  flying  across  the  pages  of  my  blue  book.  I  shall  always  remember  the  day  I  found  out  that  I'd  been  selected,  be-  cause  it  was  one  of  the  happiest  days  of  my  life-and  one  of  the  saddest.  The  telegram  found  me  at  my  campsite  out-  side  Bethesda.  I  screamed  for  joy;  I  jumped  from  my  motorhome;  I  took  Mrs.  Main,  the  campsite  manager,  in  my  arms  and  waltzed  her  around  her  office.  But  she  had  to  get  on  with  her  work,  so  I  called  one  of  my  closest  friends,  a  novelist  and  essayist,  to  ask  him  to  have  a  few  beers  with  me  in celebration.  When  I  told  him  my  news,  a  chill  came  into  his  voice.  I  knew  for  the  first  time  that  loneliness  which  must  always  walkhand  in  hand  with  the  successful.  Soon,  however,  my  gloom  was  dis-  persed  in  the  whirlwind  of  events  pre-  ceding  our  takeoff,  which  was  only  a  month  away.  First,  there  was  a  picnic  to  meet  the  other  future  space  colo-  nists,  at  the  beautiful  home  of  an  Air  Force  colonel  in  McLean,  [REDACTED].  I  met  many  people  of  amazing  intellect  whose  contributions  to  mankind  had  won  them  fame  the  world  over,  and  I  also  met  many  whose  fame  was  limited  to  only  a  small  circle.  Without  excep-  tion,  every  single  one  was  just  as  nice  and  friendly  as  anybody  you'd  ever  want  to  talk  to.  We  compared  values  and  life  styles  in  very  stimulating  ex-  changes  as  we  helped  ourselves  to  the  sumptuous  barbecue.  At  one  point,  I  was  standing  around  playing  Jarts  with  a  Nobel  Prize-winning  physicist,  a  Nobel  Prize-winning  chemist,  and  a  famous  international  photojournalist.  I  turned  to  the  chemist  and  said,  &quot;Pinch  me,  will  you?  I  can't  believe  this  is  real!&quot;  The  next  weeks  passed  in  a  frantic  rush  of  orientation  sessions,  group  dis-  cussions,  weightlessness  training  (the  space  station  has  artificial  gravity,  but  this  was  just  in  case),  packing,  final  details,  and  goodbyes  to  loved  ones.  At  last  came  the  morning  when  we  were  standing  with  our  suitcases  on  the  concrete  apron  next  to  the  space-shut-  tle  launch  pad  at  Cape  Canaveral.  There  were  too  many  of  us  to  go  all  at  once,  so  the  shuttle  had  to  make  two  trips.  The  bunch  I  went  with  had  a  ball.  It  was  really  something  to  watch  the  older  fellows,  whose  gray  hairs  be-  spoke  their  eminence,  as  they  an-  ticipated  liftoff  with  eyes  dancing  like  those  of  a  young  boy  on  his  first  roller-  coaster  ride.  The  flight  was  the  thrill  of  a  lifetime  for  everybody.  We  arrived  at  the  space  station  with  spirits  as  high  as  our  actual  altitude  in  miles,  if  not  higher.  [REDACTED]  that  some  of  my  literary  colleagues  back  on  the  ground  en-  viously  imagine  that  we're  luxuriating  in  plush  surroundings  up  here,  with  nothing  to  do  but  work  and  enjoy.  Well,  I  hate  to  shatter  their  illusions,  but  our  quarters  on  the  space  station  are  no  more  ritzy  than  your  average  family  motel  room.  Our  needs  are  well  provided  for,  but  we  don't  live  like  millionaires,  either.  'The  room  as-  signed  to  me  is  actually  one  of  the  smaller  ones.  (NASA  gave  everybody  rooms  on  the  basis  of  a  system  that  I'm  " b"sure  was  fair,  even  though  some  people  have  rooms  twice  the  size  of  mine.)  I  have  a  small  radio,  but  no  television.  I  don't  mind  that,  because  television,  with  its  tendency  to  turn  all  human  emotions  into  cup  custard,  is  an  aspect  of  modern  culture  which  I  abhor.  Be-  sides,  we  have  our  own  fifty-seat  movie  theatre-the  only  feature  of  our  space  station  which  I  guess  you  might  call  luxurious.  Sometimes  we  get  to  see  first-run  movies,  and  that  suits  me  just  fine,  because  I  am  a  movie  nut.  Of  course,  life  here  is  not  without  its  annoying  little  technical  problems,  or  &quot;glitches,&quot;  as  we  call  them.  The  day  we  arrived,  one  of  the  station's  outside  thrust-reversers  was  screwed  up,  and  everything  kept  tilting  back  and  forth.  I  was  in  the  midst  of  unpacking,  put-  ting  pencils  in  my  pencil  holder,  when  suddenly  things  started  to  tilt,  and  the  pencil  holder  toppled  and  all  my  pencils  went  scattering  on  the  floor.  Then,  for  some  strange  reason  the  water  they  brought  up  to  use  for  drinking  and  showering  turned  out  to  " b"be  hard  water;  that  is,  water  with  high  mineral  content.  I  don't  know  why  they  didn't  get  regular  water-some  bureaucratic  snafu,  most  likely.  The  water  tasted  O.K.,  but  when  you  shampooed  with  it,  no  matter  how  hot  you  turned  it  up,  it  would  not  rinse  your  hair  completely.  After  a  few  weeks  of  this  kind  of  shampooing,  all  of  us  were  walking  around  with  hair  that  hung  in  lifeless  strands.  We  were  a  pretty  droopy-looking  group,  and  morale  began  to  suffer.  Then  NASA  took  the  problem  in  hand,  and  announced  that  they  were  adding  another  member  to  the  Space  Commu-  nity.  The  new  member  was  a  service-  man  from  one  of  the  leading  water-  softener  companies.  (I  don't  have  to  tell  you  which  one-they  have  already  blown  their  own  horn  loud  enough,  with  their  &quot;Water  Softener  to  Amer-  ica's  Space  Program&quot;  ad  campaign.)  The  shuttle  made  a  special  trip  to  bring  this  guy  up,  and,  after  some  initial  awkwardness,  he  fit  in  fine.  RITERS  on  earth  may  envy  me,  but  I  wonder  if  they  know  how  I  envy  them.  How  I  would  love  a  little  of  their  privacy,  their  anonymity,  their  freedom  to  foster  their  creations  away  from  the  bright  lights  of  na-  tional  and  world  attention!  Whenever  the  space  station  passes  over  [REDACTED],  there's  a  knock  on  my  door.  &quot;Jerry-  it's  Mission  Control  on  the  phone.  They  want  to  talk  to  you.&quot;  I  know  that  this  is  just  part  of  the  routine.  I  know  that  the  [REDACTED]  boys  have  a  flight  schedule  with  a  list  of  all  our  names  with  little  boxes  alongside,  and  all  they  want  to  do  is  put  a  little  check  in  the  box  by  my  name  indicating  that  they've  talked  to  me,  that  I  sound  fine,  etc.  They  ask  me  how  the  book  is  going,  and  I  give  them  vague  answers,  and  that  satisfies  them.  They  always  mention  the  &quot;great  view.&quot;  They've  got  theideathat  a  person  looking  at  the  &quot;great  view&quot;  from  up  here  would  naturally  be  inspired  to  write  as  no-  body  in  history  has  ever  written  before.  &quot;Oh,  what  a  view!&quot;  I  always  answer.  Let  me  tell  you  a  few  facts  about  this  supposed  &quot;great  view.&quot;  In  the  first  place,  there  is  one  window  in  this  space  station.  One  window  for  the  en-  tire  space  station.  And  it's  not  even  that  big  a  window-it's  about  the  size  of  a  picture  window  in  an  ordinary  house.  In  the  second  place,  most  of  the  time  the  space  station  is  rotated  around  in  a  direction  where  all  you  can  see  out  the  window  is  blackness  and  acouple  of  stars.  Maybe  if  you  stood  there  and  waited  for  a  few  hours,  you  might  see  a  meteor.  And  then  during  those  times  when  the  space  station  is  rotated  around  toward  earth,  the  window  is  always  packed  with  people,  and  all  you  can  see  is  the  back  of  everybody's  head.  Now,  say  I  burst  from  my  room  one  afternoon,  my  brain  teeming  with  half-formed  plots  and  characteriza-  tions,  and  I  decide  to  take  a  short  stroll.  What  I'mhoping  for  is  the  catalyst,  the  spark  thatwill  set  the  whole  structure  aglow  from  within.  I  walk  to  the  window;  earth  is  visible,  if  only  I  could  see  it  through  the  crowd.  The  conversation  goes  like  this:  \xc2\xab&quot;See  that  bump  there?  That's  Long  [REDACTED].&quot;  &quot;Long  [REDACTED]  isn't  a  bump.  It's  more  like  a  line.&quot;  &quot;O.K.,  then  what  is  that  bump?&quot;  &quot;Which  one,  the  first  bump  or  the  second  bump?&quot;  &quot;Not  the  first  bump.  I'm  talking  about  the  smaller  bump,.  The  first  bump  is  New  Brunswick.&quot;  My  question  is:  Was  it  in  measures  " b"such  as  these  that  the  Muses  sang  to  Virgil  and,  later,  Dante?  I,  for  one,  doubt  it  very  much.  THE  guys  at  Mission  Control  are  put  off  easily  enough,  but  once  a  month  the  President  calls,  and  that's  a  whole  different  situation.  It's  quite  a  bit  harder  to  kid  him  along.  He  knows  all  our  names  and  he  even  recognizes  our  voices,  and  while  he's  talking  I'm  sure  he's  got  a  file  on  each  one  of  us  sitting  on  his  desk  in  front  of  him.  I  never  know  for  sure  what  he's  going  to  say.  He's  a  manwho  digs  deeper;  he  didn't  get  to  be  President  by  accepting  pat  answers.  The  last  couple  of  times  we've  talked,  he's  been  getting  curious  about  my  work,  and  I  really  don't  want  to  go  into  it.  I  could  say  to  him,  &quot;Look,  writing  is  a  process  that  takes  place  far  back  in  the  dim  recesses  of  the  mind,  where  words  emerge  and  then  go  away  again  in  a  manner  that  even  the  most  skillful  of  authors  can-  not  easily  explain  in  person,  let  alone  over  long-distance  radiophone.&quot;  But  I  don't  tell  him  that-I  try  to  cooperate.  Our  last  conversation,  however,  was  a  nightmare.  &quot;Hi,  Jerry,  how's  the  writing  go-  ing?&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Pretty  good,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;How  many  chapters  so  far?&quot;  &quot;Almost  ten.&quot;  &quot;Wow!  That's  great!  That's  really  a  lot!  How  many  pages  would  that  be?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  about  a  hundred  and  fifty,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;A  hundred  and  fifty!  Wow!&quot;  &quot;Well,  I  triple-space.&quot;  &quot;Still  .  .  .&quot;  he  says.  Then  he  says,  \xc2\xab'Tell  me,  Jerry,  do  you  mind  my  asking?  I  was  wondering  about  the  angle  you're  taking  on  your  material.&quot;  &quot;Well  .  ..  it's,  uh  ..  .  you  might  say  it's  kind  of  darkly  comic,&quot;  I  stammer.  There  is  a  long  pause,  while  my  muscles  begin  to  knot  up  and  my  fore-  head  grows  as  clammy  as  the  bottom  ofa  vegetable  compartment  in  a  re-  frigerator.  &quot;Well,  I'm  sure  you're  do-  ing  a  terrific  job,  and  I  just  want  you  to  know  how  proud  I  and  all  other  556e6974656420537461746573ns  are  of  you,  and  I  know  that  you'll  show  the  world  that  our  country  has  writers  who  are  second  to  none!&quot;  he  says.  I  rushed  back  to  my  room  and  threw  myself  face  down  on  my  bed.  That's  not  the  half  of  it!  That  doesn't  begin  to  describe  it!  The  truth  is  that  from  page  1  right  up  to  the  very  last  page  I've  written  so  far  my  book  is  deeply,  profoundly  disturbing!  Or,  to  be  more  exact,  Chapter  1  is  pro-  foundly  disturbing;  Chapter  2  is  both  profoundly  disturbing  and  upsetting;  Chapter  3  is  disturbing,  upsetting,  and  alarming;  in  Chapter  4,  I  let  up  a  little,  and  that  one  is  merely  disconcerting;  Chapter  5  provides  another  short  breather,  and  it  is  just  troubling;  but  Chapter  6  goes  right  back  to  pro-  foundly  disturbing  again,  and  I  con-  tinue  like  that  without  any  break  at  all  from  then  on.  When  the  President  finds  out  what  a  sweeping  indictment  of  our  civilization  I'm  writing  up  here  (and  on  the  government's  nickel,  no  less),  he's  likely  to  go  through  the  roof.  I  wouldn't  want  to  be  around  the  Oval  Office  to  watch,  I  can  tell  you  that.  "