 b"WHEN  Edward  Jones  awak-  ened  in  the  morning,  he  was  thinking  about  Moo  Moo  Baker.  When  Lila  Codman  called  on  the  telephone,  he  asked  her,  &quot;How  do  you  ...  what  are  the  best  circum-  stances  under  which  ...how  does  a  person  see  Moo  Moo  Baker?&quot;  Lila  said,  &quot;If  I  knew  the  answer  to  that,  I'd  be  the  unhappiest  girl  in  New  York.&quot;  Then,  seeing  that  Eddie  really  wanted  an  answer,  she  said,  &quot;Moo  Moo  plays  bridge.&quot;  Eddie  spent  the  day  with  cards.  He  went  into  a  carved  box  and  took  out  several  old  decks.  He  looked  carefully  at  the  backs:  an  Iroquois  squaw  with  a  rising  sun  behind  her(he  knew  she  was  an  Iroquois  because  it  said  &quot;Iro-  quois&quot;  there  quite  plainly  in  gold  let-  ters);  an  English  garden;  and  a  spray  of  gladiolas.  He  chose  the  squaw.  He  held  her  in  his  hand.  He  looked  past  her.  Troublemaker,  he  thought;  he  meant  Moo  Moo  Baker,  not  the  squaw.  He  pulled  a  cherry  drop-leaf  table  out  into  the  center  of  the  room  and  pulled  one  of  his  Adam-Sheraton  chairs  up  to  it.  He  sat  quite  comfort-  ably  in  the  chair,  shuffled  and  dealt  the  cards:  four  hands.  &quot;Bridge,&quot;  he  said  out  loud.  &quot;Imagine.&quot;  When  Eddie  called  up  Moo  Moo  Baker,  he  said,  &quot;Oh,  Moo  Moo,  I'm  so  glad  to  find  you  in.  I  have  a  favor  to  ask.  I'm  not  going  away  this  winter,  and  I'm  feeling  a  little  impatient  with  myself  for  not  doing  more,  and  I've  had  the  thought  that  what  I'd  like  best  would  be  to  start  playing  bridge  seri-  ously.&quot;  &quot;Naturally,&quot;  Moo  Moo  said.  Eddie  was  a  little  surprised  by  this  response,  but  he  had  the  presence  of  mind  not  to  show  it.  &quot;And  naturally  you,  Moo  Moo,&quot;  he  said,  noticing  the  rhyme,  &quot;naturally  you  ...&quot;  &quot;Are  you  good?&quot;  Moo  Moo  asked,  ruthless.  &quot;Oh,  yes,&quot;  Eddie  said.  'The  best  people  play  at  the  Greene  Club.  That's  where  I  always  play.&quot;  (\xe2\x80\x98Oh?))  &quot;Are  you  very  good,  or  just  good?&quot;  Moo  Moo  asked.  &quot;Oh,  well,&quot;  Eddie  said.  &quot;Very  good.&quot;  ND  so  Eddie  found  himself  that  evening  at  the  Greene  Club.  He  was  not  entirely  prepared  for  what  he  saw.  He  saw  Alice  Cuyler,  who  had  pushed  (or  had  not  pushed)  the  head  of  her  young  husband,  Freddy  &quot;Kip&quot;  Cuyler,  underwater  and  held  it  there  (or  not)  until  he  drowned  (he  did  drown).  He  saw  the  Johnny  Bassets  and  the  Winthrop  Reenysand  Van  Aspair  and  several  score  more  peo-  ple,  all  of  whom  seemed  to  be  on  a  kind  of  cruise,  the  Greene  Club  being  the  ship.  Daemgerous,  Eddie  thought.  Then  he  thought,  One  step  below  charity.  And,  indeed,  as  he  looked  around  the  room  he  saw  that  it  was  filled  with  exactly  those  people  whose  names  used  to  appear  on  invitations  to  charity  dances  but  no  longer  did  ap-  pear  there.  Everything  looked  familiar,  but  here  familiarity  was  not  a  source  of  comfort.  They  were  in  a  social  hour  during  which  sherry  was  passed  around  (not  everyone  took  it;  only  Van  Aspair  took  more  than  one;  most  peo-  ple  sipped  sparingly,  so  as  not  to  dull  their  competitive  edge),  and  it  felt  like  something  organized  at  a  school  or  a  spa.  And  it  wasn't  just  the  spirit  of  organization  that  seemed  familiar;  the  artifacts  were  familiar,  too:  the  sherry  glasses  and  the  tray,  and  the  maid,  who  was  surely  the  old  crone  who  used  to  serve  so  badly  at  Mrs.  Jimmy  Derring's.  It  was  as  though  he  had  died  and  not  gone  to  Heaven.  He  was  in  the  wrong  place,  he  felt.  The  inmates  of  the  Greene  Club  had  just  the  opposite  opinion.  Alice  Cuyler  gave  him  a  kiss.  Sally  Reeny  waved  from  across  the  room  and  then  came  almost  at  arun.  And  yet  in  their  enthusiasm  Eddie  saw,  with  dismay,  there  was  no  element  of  surprise.  We  knew  you'd  show  up,  their  manner  seemed  to  say;  it  was  only  a  question  of  when.  He  was  uncomfortable.  He  was  compelled  to  witness  the  destruction  of  one  of  his  favorite  ideas:  I  can  go  anywhere.  It  was  shown  to  be  prideful.  No,  no,  I  can't,  Eddie  thought.  I  can't  be  here.  He  was  there  nevertheless.  He  found  himself  in  a  stagnant  calm,  a  heavy  atmosphere  that  muffled  his  liveliness.  He  did  not  seek  to  make  connections,  as  he  was  used  to  doing.  He  came  across  a  piece  of  information  and  his  urge  was  to  leave  it  where  it  was.  The  house,  for  instance.  It  was  large,  neo-Georgian.  He  thought,  Who  built  it?  He  could  not  help  think-  ing  this  much,  but  then  he  stopped.  He  thought  this  much  and  put  the  rest  aside.  He  asked  no  question.  He  did  not  ask  Winthrop  Reeny  about  his  brother  Smith  Reeny  or  his  sister  Mrs.  John  " b"Clark  Kane,  or  about  his  mother  in  Bernardsville,  New  Jersey.  (Still  ride  with  the  hunt?  At  her  age?  Imagine!)  He  did  not  ask  Van  Aspair  how  his  cousin  Sophie  was,  and  certainly  he  did  notaskAlice  Cuyler  any  question,  since  any  question  put  to  her  would  come  out  Did  you  hold  his  head  under-  water  until  he  drowned?  Keep  still,  he  said  to  himself.  Stand  still.  And  he  did.  After  a  time,  everyone  marched  out  of  the  room  they  were  in  and  into  a  larger  room-a  ballroom,  it  must  have  been-where  tables  had  been  set  up  (perhaps  they  did  not  ever  come  down).  The  room  had  the  smell  of  an  ex-  amination  room,  which  is  the  smell  generated  by  the  mechanical  linking  of  person  to  person  within  competitive  experience.  And  it  had  the  same  hush,  the  unquiet  silence  within  which  schemes  in  the  mind  work  urgently  without  talk.  Eddie  was  thrown  off.  And  he  was  thrown  off  by  the  number  of  people  in  the  room.  The  room  was  vast.  There  seemed  to  be  hundreds  of  people  in  it.  And  what  the  people  were  playing  was  duplicate  bridge-the  same  hands  dealt  around  to  different  partnerships,  so  that  everyone  would  have  the  same  experience  by  the  end.  Everything  re-  vealed.  Perfect  justice.  No  mitigation.  He  played  almost  badly.  That  is,  on  those  occasions  when  he  playeda  hand  he  did  well,  but  the  bidding  was  con-  fusing  to  him.  Systems  he  did  not  know  were  inforce,  and  he  imagined  -what?  That  he  saw  small  signals  pass  around  the  table  that  looked  like  cheating.  He  had  thought  (remnant  of  old  assumptions)  that  MooMoo  would  make  him  her  partner  for  the  evening,  or  that  she  would  see  to  it  that  they  played  together  at  first,  so  that  he  might  be  at  ease,  but  no  such  thing  happened.  He  saw  that  his  strategy  -by  which  he  would  enter  into  some  attractive  activity  with  MooMoo  (who  was  an  active  girl)  and  seek  then  (within  the  benign  atmosphere  of  an  attractive  activity  )  to  affect  Moo  Moo's  course  of  action  with  regard  to  his  friend  Henry  Fourt-had  not  only  come  undone  but  had  been  replaced  by  another  scheme,  in  which  he  would  find  not  help  for  his  friendbut  humiliation  for  himself.  Serves  me  right,  he  thought.  Just  then,  seeing  with  some  clarity  the  limits  of  what  hecould  expect  to  achieve  by  strategy,  he  found  himself  breathing  air  from  which  all  elements  apart  from  strategy  and  tactics  had  been  removed.  He  settled  into  it.  He  found  himself,  in  time,  at  a  table  with  Moo  Moo.  He  found  himself  suddenly  afraid.  He  listened.  There  was  a  small  crack.  Imperceptible.  He  played  badly.  Was  there  a  slight  list?  He  left  his  cabin  and  found  his  friend Henry  Fourt  in  the  corridor.  Henry  said  that  he  had  heard  two  officers  conversing  together  and  that  the  ship  had  apparently  hit  an  iceberg.  He  and  Henry  Fourt  swore  to  stick  together  through  thick  and  thin  and  went  to-  gether  to  A  deck.  Men  and  women  were  gathered  there,  some  in  life  pre-  servers.  (They  put  them  on  reluc-  tantly,  or  with  humor,  playing  the  situation  down.)  One  man  handed  up  a  bit  of  ice  (from  the  iceberg)  and  said,  &quot;Here,  you'd  better  keep  this  as  asou-  venir.&quot;  He  overbid.  He  saw  Moo  Moo  and  her  partner  cheat  (little  hiccups  in  " b"speech  were  their  signal)  and  arrive  at  the  perfect  bid.  SENATOR  SmitH:  What  did  you  do  then?  What  was  your  response?  Epwarp  Jones:  I  overbid.  Senator  What  was  your  purpose?  Epwarp  Jones:  I  didn't  want  them  to  getthe  contract.  Senator  Smrtn:  That  was  all?  Epwarp  Jones:  That  was  all.  Senator  SmrtH:  What  did  you  do  then?  Epwarp  Jones:  I  asked  a  question  and  had  a  thought.  Senator  Smitu:  What  was  the  question?  Of  whom  did  you  ask  it?  Epwarp  Jones:  The  question  was  &quot;Moo  Moo,  is  your  Aunt  Lizzie  going  to  [REDACTED]  with  Henry  any  time  soon,  or  will  they  be  in  New  York  for  a  while?&quot;  Senator  SmttH:  And  the  question  was  directed  to  MooMoo  Baker?  Epwarp  Jones:  That  is  correct.  Senator  Smite:  Did  she  make  a  response?  Epwarp  Jon\xc2\xaes:  She  did.  Senator  Smtr:  Can  you  tell  us  what  she  said?  Epnwarp  JonEs:  She  said,  &quot;Yes,  she'll  go  to  [REDACTED],  all  right,  butnot  with  that  boring  old  fairy.&quot;  Senator  Smite:  Those  were  her  exact  words?  Enpwarp  JonEs:  Those  were  her  exact  words.  Senator  SmrtH:  Can  you  describe  the  situation  aboard  ship  at  this  time?  Epwarp  Jones:  We  had  begun  to  list  quite  badly.  One  lifeboat  was  ready  to  be  lowered,  and  it  seemed  to  be  crowded  with  men,  although  there  had  been  a  line  drawn  beyond  which  only  women  and  children  were  supposed  to  go.  Van  Aspair  was  in  this  boat  with  Mr.  Winthrop  Reeny,  and  many  others  whom  I  did  not  know,  but  Mr.  Aspair  seemed  to  want  to  get  off.  Senator  SmitH:  Wanted  to  get  off?  To  give  his  place  toa  woman?  Epwarp  Jones:  No.  I  do  not  think  that  was  his  reason.  He  said  in  my  hearing  that  he  didn't  want  to  be  in  the  same  boat  with  a  lot  of  kikes.  That  was  his  expression.  Senator  Smite:  Can  you  describe  your  actions  as  the  ship  began  to  list?  Epwarp  JonrEs:  Well,  asI  say,  I  decided  to  stick  by  my  friend  Henry  Fourt.  We  set  off  together  to  see  if  we  could  be  of  any  help  in  launching  the  lifeboats.  Four  ladiesin  particular,  whom  we  had  got  to  know  well-  Miss  Brown  (her  mother  was  a  Miss  Mann,  from  Troy,  a  friend  of  my  mother's);  Miss  Derwer,  from  Balti-  more  (her  grandmother  was  aCarroll,  of  Carrollton);  Miss  Granger,  from  [REDACTED],  whom  I  didn't  know,  but  she  was  a  friend  of  Miss  Brown's;  and   Miss  Samantha  Young,  an  acquain-  tance  of  Henry  Fourt's-we  took  a  special  responsibility  for,  and  we  saw  them  into  a  lifeboat  that  was  being  lowered  off  the  port  side.  We  worked  on  more  boats  on  the  port  side,  and  then  the  call  came  &quot;All  to  starboard,&quot;  because  the  ship  was  listing  so  badly  to  port,  and  we  went  together  to  the  starboard  side,  and  we  were  quite  sur-  prised  tosee  our  four  friends  there.  They  had  not  got  into  the  boat  after  all,  or  there  had  been  some  kind  of  trouble.  Then  we  heard  that  there  was  still  room  in  a  boat  being  lowered  on  the  port  side,  and  we  took  them  there,  and  they  did  make  it  safely  this  time.  We  returned  to  starboard,  and  by  this  time  the  ship  was  sinking,  and  we  saw  that  we  mustgo  down  with  her,  but  what  was  terrifying  was  that  suddenly  there  appeared  a  mass  of  humanity-  men,  women,  and  children-and  we  had  assumed  that  the  women  and  chil-  dren  were  off,  but  here  was  this  surge  of  humanity-men,  women,  and  chil-  dren-screaming,  and  up  to  this  point,  Senator,  there  had  been  no  screaming.  The  water  was  then  right  beside  us.  The  only  thing  above  us  was  the  hur-  ricane  deck.  Mr.  Fourt  and  I  jumped  to  try  to  reach  the  deck.  We  were  unsuccessful.  Then  the  wave  came  and  struck  us;  the  water  came  and  struck  us,  and  then  I  rose  as  I  would  rise  in  bathing  in  the  surf,  and  I  gave  a  jump  " b"with  the  water,  which  took  me  right  onto  the  hurricane  deck,  and  around  that  was  an  iron  railing,  and  I  grabbed  that  iron  railing  and  held  tight  to  it;  and  I  looked  around,  and  the  same  wave  that  had  saved  me  had  engulfed  everybody  around  me.  I  turned  to  the  right  and  to  the  left  and  looked.  Mr.  Fourt  was  not  there,  and  I  could  not  see  any  of  this  vast  mass  of  humanity.  They  had  all  disappeared.  I  was  taken  down  with  the  ship,  hanging  on  to  that  railing,  but  I  soon  let  go.  I  felt  myself  whirled  around,  swam  under-  water,  fearful  that  the  hot  water  that  came  upfrom  the  boilers  might  boil  me  up-swam,  it  seemed  to  me,  with  unusual  strength-and  succeeded  finally  in  reaching  thesurface  and  in  getting  a  good  distance  away  from  the  ship.  Senator  Smitte:  How  far  away?  Epnwarp  Jones:  I  could  not  say,  because  I  could  not  see  the  ship.  When  I  came  up  to  the  surface,  there  was  no  ship  there.  The  ship  would  have  been  behind  me,  and  all  around  me  was  wreckage.  I  saw  what  seemed  to  be  bodies  all  around.  Do  you  want  me  to  go  through  the  harrowing  details?  Senator  SmttH:  Yes.  Epwarp  Jones:  The  worst  was  Al-  ice  Cuyler.  She  was  on  a  raft-some  kind  of  crate-and  she  was  holding  the  head  of  her  husband  under  the  water  and  shrieking.  Senator  SmtrH:  What  was  she  shrieking?  Epnwarp  Jones:  That  she  had  never  liked  him,  ever.  Senator  Smttru:  And  what  was  Moo  Moo  Baker  doing  during  this  time?  Epwarp  Jones:  Waiting  for  me  to  play  from  my  hand.  Senator  SmttrH:  And  did  you  say  anything  to  her?  Epwarpo  Jones:  I  did.  I  said,  &quot;Of  course,  Moo  Moo,  you're  perfectly  right.  Henry  is,  from  a  certain  point  of  view,a  boring  old  fairy,  exactly  as  you  say,&quot;  and  then  I  paused  and  looked  at  my  hand,  and  then  I  said,  &quot;Of  course,  someone  who  had  been  to  Fragattzi's  for  the  show  and  had  seen  his  work  there  might  have  said  that  he  was  an  artist,  or  at  least  a  good  draftsman,&quot;  and  then,  in  rather  a  matter-of-fact,  offhand  tone,  I  asked,  &quot;Have  you  been  to  Fragattzi's  recently?  They've  done  it  up  awfully  well.  The  new  man  knows  his  stuff.&quot;  And  then  I  said,  &quot;And  someone  who  had  seen  him  last  winter  with  Lizzie  when  she  was  so  sick  ..  .&quot;  and  I  let  that  trail  off.  Senator  SmttH:  Was  anything  oc-  curring  during  the  time  you  delivered  this  speech?  Epwarp  Jones:  I  was  playing  spades.  Senator  Smtte:  And  did  anything  else  occur,  while  you  were  playing  spades?  Anything  unusual  or  remark-  able?  Epnwarp  Jones:  Yes,  Senator.  Senator  Smttre:  Could  you  de-  scribe  what  happened?  Enwarp  Jones:  The  spirits  of  the  dead  surrounded  me  and  tried  to  com-  fort  me.  Senator  Smtte:  Which  spirits,  ex-  actly?  Enpwarp  Jones:  Kip  Cuyler  and  Eleanor  Brady,  who  was  Van  Aspair's  first  wife,  and  who  was  bullied  awfully  by  him;  and  Johannes  Aspair  IV,  who  was  so  young  when  he  drowned,  and  who  was  the  hope  of  his  family.  Senator  And  did  they  comfort  you?  Epwarp  Jones:  Oh,  yes.  KipCuy-  ler  stroked  my  brow.  Senator  SmttH:  Anything  else?  Enwarp  Jones:  He  told  me  to  dou-  ble-finesse.  Senator  To  double-fi-  nesse?  Epwarp  Jones:  Yes.  He  said  Moo  Moo  had  both  the  king  and  the  jack.  Senator  SmttH:  Did  she?  Epnwarp  Jones:  Yes.  Senator  SmttH:  So  you  made  the  contract?  Epwarp  Jones:  Yes.  Senator  SmttH:  Did  you  make  any  remark  during  this  time,apart  from  discussing  Henry  Fourt?  Epnwarp  JonEs:  You  mean  about  making  the  contract?  Senator  SmttH:  Yes.  Epnwarp  Jones:  I  just  said,  &quot;Oh,  Moo  Moo,  did  you  have  both  the  king  and  the  jack?  How  lucky  for  us.&quot;  Senator  SmttH:  Very  restrained.  By  the  way,  you  mentioned  having  a  thought,  as  well  as  a  question,  as  all  this  began.  What  was  the  thought?  Epwarp  Jones:  I  thought,  This  is  very  bad  form,  from  their  point  of  view.  You  see,  they  don't  generally  talk  much  at  these  gatherings."