 b"Between  political  speeches  and  introductions,  [Tammy]  Wynette  took  the  stage  to  sing  with  her  arm  around  the  President's  waist  and  her  head  on  his  shoulder.  As  she  finished,  she  kissed  him  gently  on  the  lips  and  said:  &quot;You're  so  wonderful.&quot;-The  Post.  class  of  person  is,  \xc2\xae  under  the  [REDACTED]  Constitu-  &amp;  tion  and  applicable  statutes,  entitledto  kiss  the  President?  A:  The  Constitution  says  nothing  specifically  about  kissing  the  President.  Nor  are  there  laws  on  the  books  di-  rectly  relevant  to  this  issue.  There  is,  however,  quite  an  elaborate  proto-  col  governing  the  matter,  dating,  we  are  told,  from  the  Age  of  Jackson,  when  kissing  the  President  first  be-  came  popular.  Considered  as  a  class,  those  permitted  to  kiss  thePresident  are  women,  mostly.  Q:  Are  men  ever  permitted  tokiss  the  President?  A:  Frenchmen  and  officials  or  dig-  nitaries  of  former  French  territories  are  permitted  tokiss  the  President  in  the  traditional  French  manner,  on  both  cheeks,  first  the  left,  then  the  right.  Other  men  are  not  permitted  to  kiss  the  President.  Q:  Not  even  the  Joint  Chiefs?  A:  Not  even  the  Joint  Chiefs.  The  Joint  Chiefs  will  maintain  the  position  of  attention  at  all  times.  In  their  war  bonnets.  Heroes,  on  the  other  hand,  are  granted  special  dispensations,  At  moments  of  high  emotion,  such  as  air-  port  greetings  or  awarding  of  the  Na-  tional  Medal,  a  reciprocal  Class  B  embrace  is  stipulated,  providing  that  the  embrace  is  initiated  by  the  Presi-  dent.  Q:  What  is  a  reciprocal  Class  B  embrace?  A:  The  participants  advance  toward  each  other,  faces  aglow,  across  the  tarmac  or  whatever  as  the  Marine  Band  plays.  The  President  extends  his  hand  and  pumps  the  hand  of  the  hero,  then  grasps  him  by  the  upper  arms  and  gives  him  a  little  shake.  The  hero  is  then  allowed  to  grasp  the  President  by  his  upper  arms  and  give  him  a  little  shake.  More  or  less  to  maintain  his  balance.  Q:  What  is  a  Class  A  embrace?  A:  A  Class  A  embrace  is  a  full-  chested  hug,  or  &quot;bear&quot;  hug.  Only  em-  ployed  in  relation  to  women.  And  bears  of  course,  for  all  we  know,  at  night,  deep  in  the  National  Forest,  by  the  light  of  a  single  Watt-  But  this  is  speculation.  Q:  Are  there  political  considerations  operable  in  determining  who  may  or  may  not  kiss  the  President?  A:  Both  international  and  domestic.  Kissing  the  President  is  an  option  available,  in  general,  only  to  citizens  of  the  Free  World.  Q:  No  Communists,  then,  are  al-  lowed  to  kiss  the  President?  A:  State  Department  theorists  have  war-gamed  a  scenario  in  which,  at  the  conclusion  of  a  very  successful  summit  meeting,  the  President  and  Mr.  An-  dropov  might  tastefully  join  in  a  mid-  dling-warm  Class  B  embrace  with  a  twenty-five  per  cent  escalation  factor.  The  latter  involves  the  sides  of  their  heads  touching,  briefly.  Q:  What  if  a  male  Communist  baby  tried  to  kiss  the  President?  A:  No  babies  are  allowed  to  kiss  the  President  willy-nilly.  The  President  may  elect,  at  his  discretion,  to  kiss  any  baby-sized  individual  he  wishes,  but  the  initiative  must  always  be  his.  It  is  conceivable  that  under  certain  cir-  cumstances  the  President  might  find  it  apposite  to  kiss  a  male  Commun-  ist  baby-a  visit  to  Wroclaw,  for  ex-  ample.  Q:  Can  just  any  American  woman  kiss  the  President?  A:  Any  American  woman  of  what-  ever  kind  whatsoever.  Even  Demo-  crats.  However,  it  helps  if  you  are  a  National  Institution.  There  are  more  opportunities.  Tammy  Wynette.  Dolly Parton.  Loretta  Lynn.  Jeane  Kirkpat-  rick.  Q:  Is  it  appropriate  to  sing  your  hit  Top  Forty  song  with  your  arm  around  the  President's  waist  and  your  head  on  his  shoulder?  A:  Don't  be  stuffy.  Of  course.  Jeane  Kirkpatrick  has  not  as  yet  had  a  Top  Forty  song,  to  my  knowledge,  but  we  are  told  she  is  taking  Dobro  lessons.  Q:  Then  any  free  American  wom-  an,  be  she  old  granny  or  young  lu-  bricious  scantily  clad  sex  bomb,  may  kiss  the  President  any  time  she  wishes?  A:  Correct.  The  President  is  said  to  be  especially  partial  to  old  grannies-  loves  and  respects  them  and  admires  their  spunk.  So,  attending  the  average  flood  disaster,  the  President  will  typi-  cally  fill  one  sandbag  for  the  levee  and  buss  one  homeless  but  still  spunky  old  granny.  Young  lubricious  scantily  clad  sex  bombs  are  sometimes  not  allowed  to  kiss  the  President  because  of  the  danger  of  exposure  to  harmful  strobe  light.  Q:  What  is  the  one  right  thing  to  say  after  you  have  kissed  the  Presi-  dent?  A:  &quot;'You're  so  wonderful.&quot;  Q:  Is  pinching  the  President  per-  mitted?  A:  The  President,  though  vast,  is  finite.  Thus,  pinching  the  President  is  not  permitted.  You  can  imagine  ...  one  pinch  multiplied  by  .  .  .  Q:  How  about  dropped  handker-  chiefs? "