 b"I MARRIED  Magdalena  here,  in  [REDACTED],  more  than  forty  years  ago.  It  was  at  the  time  when  anti-Jew-  ish  thoughts  and  feelings  had  suddenly  hardened  into  laws,  and  she  had  to  be  protected.  She  was  a  devout,  light-  hearted,  probably  wayward  Catholic  convert,  of  the  sort  Dominicans  like  to  have  tea  with,  butshe  was  also  Jewish  and  foreign-to  be  precise,  born  in  Budapest,  in  1904.  A  Frenchman  who  had  grown  rich  manufacturing  and  exporting  fine  china  brought  her  to  [REDACTED]-oh,  a  long  time  ago,  even  be-  fore  the  Popular  Front.  He  gave  her  up  for  the  daughter  of  a  count,  and  for  his  new  career  in  right-wing  politics,  preaching  moral  austerity  and  the  res-  toration  of  Christian  values.  When-  ever  Magdalena  opened  Le  Temps  and  saw  his  name,  she  would  burst  out  laughing.  (I  never  noticed  Magdalena  actually  reading  a  newspaper.  She  sub-  scribed  to  a  great  many,  but  I  think  it  was  justto  see  what  her  friends  and  former  friends  were  up  to.)  He  let  her  keep  the  apartment  on  Quai  Vol-  taire  and  the  van  Dongen  portraits  he'd  bought  because  they  looked  like  her-the  same  pert  face  and  slender  throat.  I  never  lived  with  Magdalena.  Af-  ter  our  wedding  we  spent-part  of  a  week  together  (to  calm  my  parents  down,  I  went  home  to  sleep)  and  a     night  sitting  up  in  a  train.  I  never  imagined  sharing  an  address,  my  name  over  the  doorbell,  friendscalling  me  at  Magdalena's  number,  myself  any  more  than  aguest  in  the  black-red-and-  white-lacquered  apartment  onQuai  Voltaire.  The  whole  place  smelled  of  gardenias.  Along  the  hall  hung  stills  from  films  she  had  worked  in,  in  Vi-  enna,  [REDACTED]-silent,  minor,  forgotten  pictures,  probably  all  destroyed.  (The  apartment  was  looted  during  the  Oc-  cupation.  When  Magdalena  came  back,  she  had  to  sleep  on  the  floor.)  Her  two  pug  dogs  yapped  and  wore  little  chimes.  The  constant  jangling  drove  them  crazy.  She  washed  them  with  scented  soap  and  fed  them  at  table,  sitting  on  her  lap.  They  had  rashes  all  over  their  bodies,  and  were  always  throwing  up.  I  was  twenty-two,  still  a  student.  My  parents,  both  teachers  in  the  lower  grades,  had  made  great  sacrifices  so  that  I  could  sit  reading  books  into  early  manhood.  The  only  home  I  could  have  offered  Magdalena  was  a  corner  oftheir  flat,  in  the  Rue  des  Solitaires,  up  in  the  Nineteenth  Ar-  rondissement.  Arabs  and  Africans  live  there  now.  In  those  days,  it  was  the  kind  of  district  Jean  Renoir  and  Ren\xc3\xa9  Clair  liked  to  use  for  those  films  that  show  chimney  pots,  and  people  walk-  ing  around  with  loaves  of  bread,  and     gentle  young  couples  that  find  and  lose  a  winning  lottery  ticket.  Until  she  met  me,  Magdalena  had  never  heard  of  the  Rue  des  Solitaires,  or  of  my  M\xc3\xa9tro  stop,  Place  des  F\xc3\xa9tes.  The  names  sounded  so  charming  that  she  thought  I'd  made  them  up.  I  begged  her  to  believe  that  I  never  invented  anything.  She  was  fair  and  slight,  like  all  the  women  in  [REDACTED].  In  my  view  of  the  past,  the  streets  are  filled  with  blond-  haired  women,  wearing  absurd  little  hats,  walking  miniature  dogs.  (Wait,  my  memory  tells  me;  not  all  women-  not  my  mother.)  Why  had  she  given  up  acting?  &quot;Because  I  wasn't  much  good,&quot;  she  told  me  once.  &quot;And  I  was  so  lazy.  I  could  work,  really  work,  for  a  man  in  love  with  me-to  do  him  a  favor.  That  was  all.&quot;  From  her  sitting  room,  everything  in  it  white,  you  saw  across  the  Seine  to  the  Place  du  Car-  rousel  and  partof  the  Tuileries.  Between  five  and  eight,  men  used  to  drop  in,  stand  about  with  their  backs  to  the  view,  lean  down  to  scratch  the  ears  of  the  pugs.  Raymonde,  the  maid,  knew  everyone  by  name.  They  treated  me  kindly,  though  nobody  ever  went  so  far  asto  scratch  my  ears.  My  parents  were  anticlerical  and  republican.  In  their  conversation,  Church  and  Republic  locked  horns  like  a  couple  of  battling  rams.  I  was  never  baptized.  It  broke  their  hearts  that  my  marriage  to  Magdalena  had  to  be  blessed,  at  her  insistence.  The  bless-  ing  was  given  in  the  church  of  Saint-  Thomas-d'Aquin,  in  deep  shadow,  somewhere  behind  the  altar.  I  had  never  been  ina  church  before,  except  to  admire  windows  or  paintings;  art  belonged  to  the  people,  whatever  the  [REDACTED]  claimed.  The  ceremony  was  quick,  almost  furtive,  butnot  because  of  Magdalena:  I  was  the  outsider,  the  pagan,  unbaptized,  unsaved.  My  father  and  mother  stayed  home  that  day,  eating  the  most  solid  lunch  they  could  scrape  together,  to  steady  their  nerves.  They  would  have  saved  Magdalena,  if  only  someone  had  asked  -gladly,  bravely,  and  without  ruin-  ing  my  life.  (That  was  how  they  saw  it.)  I  suppose  they  could  have  locked  her  up  in  the  broom  closet.  She  could  have  stood  in  the  dark,  for  years  and  years-as  many  as  she  needed.  They  could  only  hope,  since  they  never  prayed,  that  there  would  be  no  chil-  dren.  I  had  already  signed  our  children  over  to  Rome  a  few  days  before  the  wedding,  one  afternoon  just  after  " b"LUNCH. BARGAINING FOR THEIR SOULS, UNCREATED, MOST CERTAINLY UNWISHED (I DID NOT SEPARATE SOUL FROM BOSY SINCE THE FIRST DID NOT EXIST), WENT ON IN THE the  white  sitting  room.  Magdalena,  as  ever  blithe  and  lightheartED, repeated  whatevershe'd  been  told  to  tell  me,  and  I  said  yes,  and  a  signed.  I  can  still  hear  the  sound  of  her  voice,  I =though  not  the  words   she  used;  it  was  lower  in  pitch  than  a  French woman's,  alien  to  the  wii&quot;  ear  because  of  its  orig  rhythm.  It  was  a  voicethat  sang  a  foreign  song.  Did  she  really  expect  to  have  chil-  dren?  She  must  have  been  thirty-six,  and  we  were  about  to  be  sepa-  rated  for  as  long  as  the  war  might  last.  My  signature  was  part  of  an  elaborate  ritual,  in  which  she  seemed  to  take  immense  delight.  She  had  never  been  married  before.  She  had  on  a  soft  navy-blue  dress,  which  had  only  that  morning  been  brought  to  the  door,  This  in  war,  in  defeat.  There  were  dressmakers  and  deliverymen.  There  was  Chanel's  Gardenia.  There  was  coffee  and  sug-  ar,  there  were  polished  silver  trays  and  thin  coffee  cups.  There  was  Ray-  monde,  in  black  with  white  organdie,  and  Magdalena,  with  her  sunny  hair,  her  deep-red  nails,  to  pour.  I  looked  over  at  the  far  side  of  the  Place  du  Carrousel,  to  some  of  the  windows  of  the  Ministry  of  Finance.  Until  just  a  few  months  ago,  Magda-  lena  had  been  invited  to  private  Minis-  try  apartments  to  lunch.  The  tables  were  set  with  the  beautiful  glass  and  china  that  belonged  to  the  people.  Steadfast,  uncomplaining  men  and  women  like  my  father  and  mother  had  paid  their  taxes  so  that  Magdalena  could  lunch  off  plates  they  would  never  see-unless  some  further  revo-  lution  took  place,  after  which  they  might  be  able  to  view  the  plates  in  a  museum.  I  felt  no  anger  thinking  this.  It  was  Magdalena  I  intended  to  save.  As  my  wife,  she  would  have  an  identity  card  with  a  French  name.  She  would  never  have  to  baste  a  yellow  star  on  her  coat.  She  would  line  up  for  potatoes  at  a  decent  hour  once  [REDACTED]  had  run  out  of  everything  else.  Actually,  Magdalena  never  lined  up  for  anything.  On  the  day  when  the  Jews  of  [REDACTED]  stood  in  long  queues  outside  police  stations,  without  push-  ing  and  shoving,  and  spelled  their  names  and  addresses  clearly,  sothat  the  men  coming  to  arrest  them  later  on  would  not  make  a  mistake,  Magdalena  went  back  to  bed  and  read  magazines.  Nobody  ever  offered  her  a  yellow  star,  but  she  found  one  for  herself.  It  was  lying  on  the  ground,  in  front  of  the  entrance  to  the  Hotel  Meurice-so  she  said.  Walking  the  pugs  in  the  rain,  Mag-  dalena  had  looked  back  to  wave  at  Raymonde,  polishing  a  window.  (A  publisher  of  comic  books  has  the  place  now.)  She  crossed  the  Tuileries,  then  the  Rue  de  Rivoli,  and,  stepping  under  the  arcades,  furled  her  silk  umbrella.  Rain  had  driven  in;  she  skirted  puddles  in  her  thin  shoes.  Just  level  with  the  Meurice,  where  there  were  so  many  German  officers  that  some  people  were  afraid  to  walk  there,  or  scorned  to,  she  stopped  to  examine  a  star-soiled,  trodden  on.  She  moved  it  like  a  wet     leaf  with  the  point  of  her  umbrella,  bent,  picked  it  up,  dropped  it  in  her  purse.  &quot;Why?&quot;  I  had  good  reason  to  ask,  soon  after.  &quot;'To  keep  as  a  souvenir,  a  curiosity.  To  show  my  friends  in  Cannes,  so  that  they  can  see  what  things  are  like  in  [REDACTED].&quot;  I  didn't  like  that.  I  had  wanted  to  pull  her  across  to  my  side,  not  to  be  dragged  over  to  hers.  DAY  later  we  set  off  by  train  for  the  [REDACTED],  which  was  still  a  free  zone.  The  only  Nazis  she  would  be  likely  to  encounter  there  would  be  French;  I  gave  Magdalena  a  lecture  on  how  to  recognize  and  avoid  them.  We  sat  side  by  side  in  a  second-class  compartment,  in  the  near  dark.  (Much  greater  suspicion  attended  passengers  in  first;  besides  that,  I  could  not  afford  it.)  Magdalena,  unfortunately,  was  dressed  fortea  at  the  Ritz.  She  would  have  retorted  that  nothing  could  be  plainer  than  a  Molyneux  suit  and  a  diamond  pin.  The  other  passengers,  three  generations  of  a  single  family,  seemed  to  be  asleep.  On  the  new,  un-  natural  frontier  dividing  [REDACTED]  North  from  [REDACTED],  the  train  came  to  a  halt.  We  heard  German  soldiers  com-  " b"ing  on  board,  to  examine  our  papers.  Trying  not  to  glance  at  Magdalena,  I  fixed  my  eyes  on  the  small  overnight  case  she  had  just  got  down  from  the  rack  and  sat  holding  on  her  lap.  When  the  train  stopped,  all  the  lights  sud-  denly  blazed-seemed  to  blaze;  they  were  dull  and  brown.  Magdalena  at  once  stood  up,  got  her  case  down  without  help,  removed  a  novel  (it  was  &quot;Bella,&quot;  by  Jean  Giraudoux),  and  be-  gan  to  read.  I  thought  that  she  had  done  the  very  thing  bound  to  make  her  seem  suspect.  Her  past,  intricate  and  inscrutable,  was  summed  up  by  the  rich  leather  of  the  case  and  the  gold  initials  on  the  lid  and  the  tiny  gold  padlock  and  key,  in  itself  a  piece  of  jewelry.  That  woman  could  not  possibly  be  the  wife  ofthat  young  man,  with  his  rolled-up  can-  vas  holdall  with  the  cracked  leather  straps.  The  bag  was  not  even  mine;  it  had  belonged  to  my  mother,  or  an  aunt.  I  reached  over  and  turned  her  case  around,  so  that  I  could  open  it,  as  if  I  were  anxious  to  cooperate,  to  get  things  ready  for  inspection.  The  truth  was,  I  did  not  want  the  German  peas-  ants  in  uniform  to  read  her  initials,  to  ask  what  her  maiden  name  was,  or  to  have  cause  for  envy;  the  shut  case  might  have  been  offered  for  sale  in  a  window  along  the  Rue  duFaubourg-  Saint-Honor\xc3\xa9,  at  extortionate  cost.  I  thought  that  if  those  peasants,  now  approaching  our  compartment,  had  not  been  armed,  booted,  temporarily  privileged,  they  might  have  served  a  different  apprenticeship-learned  to  man  mirror-walled  elevators,  carry  trays  at  shoulder  level,  show  an  under-  ling's  gratitude  for  Magdalena's  es-  cort's  tip.  I  flung  the  lid  back,  against  her  jacket  of  thin  wool;  and  there,  inside,  on  top  of  some  folded  silk  things  the  color  of  the  palest  edge  of  sunrise,  lay  a  harsh  star.  I  smoothed  the  silken  stuff  and  palmed  the  star  and  got  it  up  my  sleeve.  In  my  terrible  fright  my  mind  caught  on  something  incidental-that  Magdalena  had  never  owned  anything  else  so  coarse  to  the  touch.  She  had  never  been  a  child,  had  never  played  with  sand  and  mud.  She  had  been  set  down  in  a  large  European  city,  smart  hat  tilted,  rings  swivelled  so  that  she  could  pull  her  gloves  on,  knowing  all  there  is  about  gold  padlocks  and  keys.  &quot;Cosmopolitan,&quot;  an  incendiary  word  now,  flared  in  my  mind.  In  the  quiet  train  (no  train  is  so  still  as  one  under  search),  its  light  seemed  to  seek  out  crude  editorials,  offensive  cartoons,  re-  pulsive  graffiti.  The  peasants  in  uniform-they  were  two-slid  open  the  compartment  door.  They  asked  no  more  than  any  frontier  inspector,  but  the  reply  came  under  the  heading  of  life  and  death.  &quot;Cosmopolitan&quot;  had  flared  like  a  star;  it  dissolved  into  a  dirty  little  puddle.  Its  new,  political  meaning  seeped  into  my  brain  and  ran  past  my  beliefs  and convictions,  and  everything  my  par-  ents  stood  for.I  felt  it  inside  my  skull,  and  I  wondered  ifit  would  ever  evapo-  rate.  One  of  the  peasantsspoke,  and  Magdalena  smiled.  She  told  me  later  that  he  had  the  accent  saidto  have  been  Wagner's.  Seeing  the  open  case,  he  plunged  his  hand  under  the  silks  and  struck  a  hairbrush.  He  shut  the  lid  and  stared  dumbly  at  the  initials.  The  other  one  in  the  meanwhile  frowned  at  our  papers.  Then  the  pair  of  them  stumbled  out.  Our  fellow-passengers  looked  away,  as  people  do  when  someone  with  the  wrong  ticket  is  caught  in  first  class.  I  put  the  case  back  on  the  rack  and  muttered  an  order.  Magdalena  obedi-  ently  followed  me  out  to  the  corridor.  It  may  have  looked  as  if  we  were  just  standing,  smoking,  but  I  was  trying  to  " b"find  out  how  she,  who  had  never  owned  any-  thing  ugly,  had  come  into  possession  of  this  thing.  She  told  me  about  the  Rue  de  Rivoli,  and  that  she  had  thought  the  star  would  interest  her  friends  in  Cannes:  they  would  be  able  tosee  how  things  were  now  up  in  [REDACTED].  If  she  had  buried  it  next  to  her  hairbrush,  it  would  have  seemed  as  though  she  had  something  to  hide.  She  said  she  had  nothing  to  hide;  abso-  lutely  nothing.  I1  had  been  running  with  sweat;  now  I  felt  cold.  I  asked  her  if  she  was  crazy.  She  took  this  for  the  anxious  inquiry  of  a  young  man  deeply  in  love.  Her  nature  was  sunny,  and  as  good  as  gold.  She  laughed  and  told  me  she  had  been  called  different  things  but  never  crazy.  She  start-  ed  to  repeat  some  of  them,  and  I  kissed  her  to  shut  her  up.  The  corridor  was  jammed  with  people  lying  sprawled  or  sitting  on  their  luggage,  and  she  sounded  demented  and  foreign.  I  wondered  what  she  meant  by  &quot;friends  in  Cannes.&quot;  To  women  of  her  sort,  &quot;friend&quot;  is  often  used  as  a  vague  substitute  for  &quot;lover.&quot;  (Notice  how  soon  after  thinking  &quot;cosmopoli-  tan&quot;  I  thought  &quot;of  her  sort.&quot;)  She  had  mentioned  the  name  of  the  people  who  were  offering  her  shelter  in  Cannes;  it  was  a  French  name  but  perhaps  an  alias.  I  had  a  right  to  know  more.  She  was  my  wife.  For  the  first  and  the  last  time  I  considered  things  in  that  partic-  ular  way:  After  all,  she  is  my  wife.  I  was  leaving  the  train  at  Marseilles,  though  my  ticket  read  Cannes.  From  Marseilles,  I  would  try  to  get  to  North  Africa,  then  to  [REDACTED].  Magdalena  would  sit  the  war  out  in  an  airy  villa  -the  kind  aliens  can  afford.  When  I  next  said  something-  about  getting  back  to  our  seats-my   voice  was  too  high.  It  still  rises  and  thins  when  I  feel  under  strain.  (In  the  nineteen-fifties,  when  I  was  often  heard  over  the  radio,  interviewing  cel-  ebrated  men  about  their  early  struggles  and  further  ambitions,  I  would  get  about  two  letters  a  year  from  women  saying  theyenvied  my  mother.)  It  was  probably  just  as  well  that  we  were  spending  our  last  night  among  strangers.  After  our  wedding  we  had  almost  ceased  to  be  lovers.  I  had  to  keep  the  peace  at  home,  and  Magda-  lena  to  prepare  to  leave  without  show-  ing  haste.  I  thought  she  was  tense  and  tired;  but  I  appreciate  now  that  Mag-  dalena  was  never  fatigued  or  wrought  up,  and  I  can  only  guess  she  had  to  say  goodbye  to  someone  else.  She  sent  the  dogs  away  to  Raymonde's  native  town  in  Normandy,  mentioning  to  the  concierge  that  it  was  for  the  sake  of  their  health  and  for  a  few  days  only.  At  the  first  sign  of  fright,  of  hurry,  or  of  furniture  removed  to  stor-  age,  the  concierge  might  have  been  halfway  to  the  police  station  to  report  on  the  tenant  who  had  so  many  good  friends,  and  whose  voice  sang  a  for-  eign  tune.  In  the  compartment,  I  tried  to  finish  the  thoughts  begun  in  the  corridor.  I  had  married  her  to  do  the  right  thing;  that  was  established.  Other  men  have  behaved  well  in  the  past,  and  will  continue  to  do  so.  It  comforted  me  to  know  I  was  not  the  only  one  with  a  safe  conscience.  Thinking  this  in  " b"the  darkened,  swaying  compartment  meant  that  I  was  lu  cid  and  generous,  and  also  something  of  a  louse.  I  whis-  pered  to  Magdalena,  &quot;What  is  bad  behavior?  What  is  the  worst?&quot;  The  question  did  not  seem  to  astonish  her.  Our  union  was  blessed,  and  she  was  my  wife  forevermore,  and  she  could  fall  back  on  considerable  jurisprudence  from  the  ledgers  of  He  ave  n  to  prove  it;  but  I  was  still  the  student  who  had  brought  his  books  to  Q  uai  Voltaire,  who  ha  d  looked  up  to  make  sur  e  s  he  was  s  till  in  the  room,  and  asked  some  quest  ion  from  beyond  his  ex  perience.  She  took  my  hand  and  said  t  he  worst  she  reme  mbered  wa  s  the  Viennese  nov-  el  ist  who  had  taken  some  of  her  jew-  elry  (she  mean  t  &quot;stolen&quot;)  and  pawned  it  an  d  kept  all  the  money.  \xe2\x80\x98w7E  said  goodbye  in  Marseilles,  on  the  station  platform.  In  the  southern  morning  light  her  eyes  were  pale  blue.  There  were  armed  men  in  uniform  everywhere.  She  wore  a  white  suit  and  a  thin  blouse  and  a  white  hat  I  had  never  seen  before.  She  had  taken  a  suitcase  into  the  filthy  toilet  and  emerged  immaculate.  I  had  the  feeling  that  she  could  hardly  wait  to  get  back  on  the  train  and  roll  on  to  new  adven-  tures.     &quot;And  now  I  am  down  here,  away  from  all  my  friends  in  [REDACTED],&quot;  she  had  the  gall  to  say,  shading  her  eyes.  It  was  a  way  of  showing  spirit,  but  I  had  never  known  anyone  remotely  like  her,  and  I  probably  thought  she  should  be  tight-lipped.  By  &quot;all  my  friends&quot;  she  must  have  meant  men  who  had  said,  &quot;If  you  ever  need  help,&quot;  knowing  she  would  never  ask;  who  might  have  said,  &quot;Wasn't  it  awful,  tragic,  about  Mag-  dalena&quot;&quot;  if  she  had  never  been  seen  again.  She  had  left  her  luggage  and  jew-  elry  untended  in  the  compartment.  I  was  glad  to  see  she  wore  just  her  wedding  ring;  otherwise,  she  might  have  looked  too  actressy,  and  drawn  attention.  (I  had  no  idea  how  actresses  were  supposed  to  look.)  Sometimes  she  used  an  amber  cigarette  holder  with  a  swirl  of  diamond  dust  like  the  tail  of  a  comet.  She  must  have  sold  it  during  the  war;  or  perhaps  lost  it,  or  given  it  away.  'You  look  like  a  youth  leader,&quot;  she  said.  I  was  [REDACTED]-pale,  but  healthy.  My  hair  was  clipped  short.  I  might  have  been  about  to  lead  police  and  passen-  gers  in  patriotic  singsong.  I  was  patri-  otic,  but  not  as  the  new  regime  ex-  pected  its  young  to  be;  I  was  on  my  way  to  be  useful  to  General  de  Gaulle,  if  he  would  have  me.  I  saw  myself  floating  over  the  map  of  [REDACTED],  har-  nessed  to  a  dazzling  par-  achute,  with  a  gun  under  my  arm.  We  had  agreed  not  to  stare  at  each  other  once  we'd  said  goodbye.  Magdalena  kissed  me  and  turned  and  pulled  herself  up  the  high  steps  of  the  train.  I  got  a  soft,  bent  book  out  of  my  canvas  holdall  and  be-  gan  to  read  something  that  spoke  only  to  me.  So  the  young  think,  and  I  was  still  that  young:  poetry  is  meant  for  one  reader  only.  Magdalena,  gazing  tenderly  down  from  the  compartment  window,  must  have  seen  just  the  shape  of  the  poem  on  the  page.  I  turned  away  from  the  slant  of  morning  sun-  light-not  away  from  her.  When  the  train  started  to  move,  she  reached  down  to  me,  but  I  was  too  far  to  touch.  A  small  crucifix  on  a  chain  slipped  free  of  her  blouse.  I  stuck  to  our  promise  and  never  once  raised  my  eyes.  At  the  same  time,  I  saw  everything  -the  shade  of  her  white  hatbrim  aslant  on  her  face,  her  hand  with  the  wedding  ring.  I  putthe  star  in  my  book,  to  mark  the  place:  I  figured  that  if  I  was  caught  I  was  done  for  anyway.  When  my  adventures  were  over,  I  would  show  it  to  my  children;  I  did  not  for  a  second  see  Magdalena  as  their  mother.  They  were  real  children,  not  souls  to  be  bargained.  So  it  seems  to  me  now.  It  shows  how  far  into  the  future  I  thought  you  could  safely  carry  a  piece  of  the  past.  Long  after  the  war,  I  found  the  star,  still  in  the  same  book,  and  I  offered  to  give  it  back  to  Magda-  lena,  but  she  said  she  knew  what  it  was  like. "