 b"MY  grandmother's  farm  lies  off  M  a  bend  in  [REDACTED],  an  as-  phalt  ribbon  that  lies  among  the  hills  and  towns  and  farms  of  southwestern  [REDACTED].  The  road  crosses  the  highway  at  Catapult,  rises  up  a  slight  grade  past  the  steel  mill,  then  winds  for  two  or  three  miles  through  woods  before  giving  way  to  open  fields.  On  a  sharp  turn  to  the  left,  it  meets  Steuben  Road  and  spills  over  a  small  creek,  past  a  pig  farm,  and  then  rides  the  undulating  spine  of  corn-  fields;  it  swerves,  dips,  rises,  and  off  to  the  left,  down  a  red  dirt  road,  her  house  sits  in  a  lush,  low  hollow  of  land.  She  has  recently  had  the  house  repainted,  the  barn  cleaned  and  re-  pointed,  the  stone  wall  at  the  edge  of  the  field  restored  to  the  remembered  condition  of  her  childhood.  Soon  after  my  grandfather  died,  sev-  eral  years  ago,she  bought  a  horse,  but  on  her  first  attempt  to  ride  she  was  thrown  off,  and  their  relationship  has  since  become  one  of  mutual  respect.  Its  bounds  are  clearly  understood.  Talbot  lives  in  the  lower  part  of  the  barn,  and  spends  his  days  in  the  field  below.  Twice  a  day  she  feeds  him,  carrying  down  buckets  of  water  and  grain,  and  in  the  evening,  with  the  sound  of  hooves  hitting  the  packed  earth,  he  comes  ambling  up  through  the  dusk  like  a  heavy  ghost  and  disappears  into  his  stable.  I  visited  my  grandmother  there  last  fall,  riding  the  familiar  bus  out  from  the  city  where  I  now  live.  She  picked  me  up  at  the  station,  and  we  drove  the  few  miles  back  to  the  house.  In  the  evening,  when  I  went  out  to  walk  the  dog,  she  asked  me  tofind  a  couple  of  fallen  ears  of  corn  for  Talbot.  &quot;Just  look  along  the  edges  of  the  rows,&quot;  she  told  me,  &quot;where  the  deer  knock  them  off.&quot;  There  are  ninety  acres  of  corn  there,  all  rustling  then  in  the  autumn  wind,  and  as  I  scanned  the  turned  earth  in  the  dying  light  I  was  tempted  to  pull  the  corn  off  the  stalks  instead.  But  in  deference  to  rural  etiquette  I  resisted,  and  in  time  I  found  two  ears  pressed  into  the  soft  red  soil  under  wilting  leaves  and  retraced  my  steps  back  toward  the  yellow  light  of  the  house.  In  the  absence  of  people,  my  grand-  mother  has  surrounded  herself  with  animals-the  horse,  the  dog,  the  birds  that  flock  to  her,  peck  birdseed  from  her  hand,  and  flutter  through  the  trees  and  surrounding  woods.  Through  years  of  patronage,  she  has  brought  the  cat  population  to  something  near  twenty,  and  at  dinnertime  they  sur-  round  the  back  door,  peering  from  under  bushes  or  behind  the  wheels  of  the  parked  car.  The  lawn  is  marked  with  the  trails  of  their  habitual  routes.  She  tries  to  find  homes  for  the  healthi-  est,  but  their  expanding  numbers  op-  press  her,  and  it  is  now  a  situation  without  remedy.  She  knows  cats  by  family  and  generation-whose  grand-  mother  was  whose-and  follows  their  comings  and  goings  with  a  kind  of  familial  love.  &quot;They're  really  just  as  different  from  each  other  as  people  are,&quot;  she  tells  me  as  we  walk  down  to  the  barn.  I  am  carrying  a  bucket  of  water  and  the  two  earsof  corn,  husked  now,  hard  and  smooth  to  the  touch,  their  kernels  yellow,  orange,  brown.  She  unlatches  the  stable  door,  we  go  in,  and  in  the  jangled  light  and  shadows  I  can  see  her  old,  dusty  saddle,  bought  second-  hand  and  usedonly  once,  hanging  from  a  rusty  nail,  ancient  farm  imple-  ments  leaning  in  a  cobwebbed  corner,  hay  strewn  over  the  floor  and  piled  in  bales  against  the  wall.  The  smell  of  straw  mixes  with  an  underground  darkness.  I  lay  the  corn  in  the  trough,  and  Talbot  comes  shuffling  over  and,  with  the  sound  of  marbles  being  crushed,  eats  it,  his  black  lips  rising  and  falling  over  yellow  teeth.  With  a  sound  that  I  have  never  heard  be-  fore,  an  almost  inaudible  sigh,  my  grandmother  startles  me,  and  I  look  over  to  where,  in  the  pool  of  her  flashlight,  she  has  come  upon  a  nest  of  sleeping  kittens-a  mass  of  inter-  twined  bodies  and  pairs  of  blinking  eyes-lying  in  the  hay.  &quot;Isn't  that  something?&quot;  my  grand-  mother  says  softly,  as  if  trying  not  to  wake  them.  They  are  blinking  to  con-  sciousness  now,  their  eyes  straining  like  moths  toward  the  light.  &quot;'They're  only  a  few  days  old,  and  they're  sick,  too,&quot;  she  tells  me,  and  it  is  only  then  that  I  notice  their  eyes  are  clouded  over  in  a  kind  of  half  blind-  ness.  They  are  not  so  much  seeing  the  light  as  feeling  it.  We  stand  for  a  moment,  looking  down  at  them,  and  then  turn  and  go  out.  It  is  a  relief,  somehow,  to  beout  in  the  cool,  clear  air.  There  is  a  smell  of  autumn,  of  exhaling  earth,  and  in  our  absence  the  sky  has  become  filled  with  stars.  &quot;What  a  vision  of  life  that  [REDACTED];  my  grandmother  says  when  we  are  back  in  the  house,  her  head  slowly  shaking  in  disbelief.  &quot;You  see,  it's  confusing.  That  mother  is  not  one  of  ours.  These  people  come  along  the  road  and  leave  them  off.  And  then  they  move  into  the  barn  and  start  mak-  ing  kittens.  You'd  think  it  was  simple  for  an  old  woman  to  live  alone  in  the  middle  of  nowhere,  but  not  this  grandma.&quot;  Her  face  clenches  and  her  eyes  close  in  a  characteristic  prelude  to  laughter,  and  her  hand  reaches  up  to  touch  the  bridge  of  her  nose,  as  if  to  harness,  or  dampen,  her  amuse-  ment.  &quot;No,  no,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;Not  this  grandma.&quot;  She  has  lived  here  all  her  life,  and  now  wonders  what  will  happen  to  the  farm  when  she  can  no  longer  remain.  On  each  of  my  visits  she  asks  me  advice:  whether  to  let  the  farmers  who  lease  the  land  plant  a  row  of  peach  trees,  where  to  sell  a  corner  parcel  in  the  woods  so  the  Schmeils'  son  can  build  a  house,  whether  to  let  the  men  cut  firewood  all  suggesting  the  greater  one,  What  to  do  with  the  farm?  I  tell  her  not  to  sell  it,  even  though  her  three  grandchildren  love  the  city  and  the  sea,  and  show  no  desire  to  leave.  &quot;'You  never  know,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;You  never  know.&quot;  IN  the  last  year  or  so  my  grand-  mother  has  experienced  what  the  doctors  call  fibrillation  and  what  she  says  feels  like  there  is  a  bird  trapped  in  her  chest.  She  spent  a  week  in  the  hospital  because  of  chest  pains,  and  to  everyone's  surprise  she  seemed  oddly  happy  there.  The  neighbors  came  to  visit,  and  advised  her  to  get  rid  of  the  animals,  as  if  that  were  the  problem  with  her  health.  She  sees  getting  rid  of  the  animals  as  &quot;a  step  toward  getting  rid  of  me.&quot;  She  told  me  from  the  hospital  bed,  &quot;My  idea  is  that  the  animals  are  good  for  me,  but  they  don't  see  it  that  way.  They  think  the  animals  tire  me  out.  But  it's  they  who  tire  me  out.&quot;  Her  face  reddened  in  a  wave  of  withheld  laughter.  Still,  she  feels  the  encroachment  of  " b"the  natural  world;  she  feels  that  there  is  more  for  her  to  do  than  she  is  able,  and  that  without  her  resistance  the  demands  of  the  farm  and  nature  are  collapsing  back  upon  her  like  a  break-  ing  wave.  She  is  wary  of  winter,  of  carrying  those  buckets  of  water  and  grain  over  the  ice  and  snow,  and  of  the  way  the  cold  makes  her  heart  race.  &quot;I  think  it  will  be  all  right,&quot;  she  says  to  me  on  Saturday  morning,  &quot;as  long  as  I  can  keep  these  two  feet  under  me.&quot;  As  we  make  our  way  across  the  lawn  in  the  warm  Indian-summer  air,  strands  of  hair  rise  and  fall  above  her  in  the  wind,  and  she  moves  with  the  slow,  easy  grace  of  habit,  her  motions  polished  like  a  stone.  Her  physical  be-  ing  seems  to  emanate  from  the  land-  an  extension  of  the  trees,  the  yard,  the  fields-as  if  the  place  she  loves  had  returned  the  favor  in  beauty.  On  Saturday  afternoon,  with  the  help  of  the  neighbors,  she  jump-starts  the  tractor  and  begins  to  mow  the  lower  field.  From  the  yard  I  can  see  her  moving  back  and  forth  along  the  edge  of  fallen  grass  and  hear  the  slow,  sonorous  growl  of  the  tractor  into  the  late  afternoon.  It  is  almost  dark  when  she  comes  in,  her  face  flushed  from  the  sun.  She  is  pleased  she  has  been  able  to  get  so  much  done,  but  is  tired,  and  goes  to  bed  early.  As  I  lie  in  bed  that  night  the  lights  of  poachers  flash  across  the  ceiling  as  they  scan  the  empty  fields  for  deer,  and  I  can  hear  my  grandmother  and  the  dog  shifting  in  theirbeds.  My  grand-  mother  once  told  me  she  thought  there  were  ghosts  in  the  house.  &quot;Friendly  ones,&quot;  she  said,  as  if  to  reassure  me.  &quot;You  know,  that  light  in  my  room  goes  on  and  off,  and  the  cellar  door-  sometimes  I'll  leave  it  closed  and  the  nexttime  I  look  it  will  be  open.  Or  maybe  I'm  just  getting  old.&quot;  But  as  I  lie  in  bed  that  night  I  am  suddenly  conscious  of  inexplicable  sounds,  as  if  the  house  were  somehow  speaking,  swelling  and  contracting  between  its  thick  stone  walls.  I  realize  that  in  this  room  over  the  past  one  hundred  years  have  slept  my  parents,  my  grandpar-  ents,  my  great-grandparents-a  slow  succession  of  evolving,  overlapping  lives.  I  am  a  part  of  all  this,  I  realize  -the  leading  edge  of  this  lineage  I  barely  know.  Ifall  asleep,  but  when  I  wake  it  is  still  dark;  I  can  hear  my  grandmother  going  down  the  stairs  and  the  dog  behind  her,  his  nails  scratching  the  bare  wood  floor.  I  fall  back  asleep,  and this  time  when  I  wake  it  is  morning.  The  moon  has  become  the  sun,  and  broad  beams  of  light  slant  into  the  room.  Downstairs,  there  is  a  place  set  for  me  at  the  table.  I  tell  my  grand-  mother  about  the  sounds.  &quot;Sometimes  there  are  mice  in  the  attic,  or  the  wind  blows  the  shutters,&quot;  she  says.  I  tell  her  I  think  they  were  ghosts,  but  she  only  laughs.  &quot;Oh,  no  .  .  .&quot;  she  says,  her  voice  trailing  off.  After  church,  my  grandmother  and  I  and  a  friend,  Mrs.  Saunders,  drive down  to  the  cemetery,  so  that  they  can  visit  their  respective  husbands.  My  grandfather's  grave  is  simple,  with  his  full  name  carved  into  the  small  granite  stone,  and  a  tired  American  flag  that  the  veterans  have  put  out  hanging  limply  by.  She  shows  me  the  stones  of  her  parents  and  grandparents-ornate  monuments  carved  and  embellished  with  the  vines  and  leaves  and  floral  structuresof  another  time,  their  heavy  Germanic  names  contrived  to  look  as  if  they  were  spelled  out  by  overlapping  sticks  in  the  reddish  stone.  " b" We  walk  over  to  Mrs.  Saunders'  husband,  who,  she  shyly  explains,  was  a  widower  when  they  married  and  when  he  died  was  buried  with  his  first  wife.  And  so  now  she  does  not  know  where  she  belongs.  To  be  buried  with  her  husband  means  to  share  him  with  his  previous  wife,  yet  she  does  not  want  to  be  buried  alone.  There  is  somethingmelancholy  in  her  dilemma,  and  as  we  stand  in  solutionless  silence  over  the  grave  of  Elmer  Saunders  I  am  struck  by  her  concern  for  a  time  that  will  not  include  her,  as  if  this  was  the  last  of  life's  puzzles,  the  last  riddle  she  was  obliged  to  solve.  She  looks  up  at  us,  as  if  for  an  answer,  but  instead  we  all  three  turn,  triply  stumped,  and  walk  slowly  back  toward  the  car.  HAT  afternoon  I  take  a  long  walk  in  the  fields  above  the  house.  At  the  edge  of  the  woods  I  cut  through  a  gap  in  the  trees  and  make  my  way  back  along  the  road.  When  I  reach  the  junction  of  Kramer  and  Steuben,  I  stop.  Steuben  slopes  gently  back  toward  the  farm;  Kramer  follows  a  row  of  listing  telephone  poles  back  to  [REDACTED]  and,  in  the  other  direction,  skirts  the  edge  of  the  field  and  spills  down  along,  steep  hill  into  a  neigh-  boring  valley  of  farms  and  horses  and  handsome  stone  houses.  I  remember  as  a  child  driving  down  this  road  with  my  grandfather  when  a  flock  of  chickens  suddenly  appeared  in  the  road,  and  as  my  grandfather  braked  they  squawked  and  fluttered  up  in  front  of  the  car,  scurrying  to  reach  the  other  side;  this  sight  induced  in  my  grandfather  laughter  that  did  not  stop  as  we  drove  on  past  but  lingered  in  him  for  days,  reappearing  now  and  then  as  a  faint  glimmer  inhis  eyes.  &quot;God,  that  was  comical,&quot;  he  would  say,  and  slowly  begin  to  laugh.  This  is  the  junction  where  as  a  child,  my  grandmother  told  me,  she  once  met  her  father  when  she  had  been  sent  to  retrieve  him  from  a  bout  of  drinking  at  the  local  hotel.  After  she  got  to  the  corner  she  could  see  him  coming,  but  when  he  reached  her  he  did  not  stop,  said  nothing,  and  marched  on  past  her  toward  the  farm.  &quot;I  never  forgave  him  for  that,&quot;  she  told  me,  her  eyes  closing  and  her  head  shaking  in  a  hurt  that  is  sixty  years  old.  I  love  standing  at  these  rural  cross-  roads.  The  people  in  passing  cars  do  not  know  me;  the  dog  does  not  know  why  we  have  stopped.  Rows  of  trees-  apple,  peach,  plum-stand  in  silent  rows  and  recede  through  the  mist  to-  ward  the  outline  of  distant  hills.  The  fields  of  my  grandmother's  farm  stretch  away  in  a  kind  of  optical  dis-  tortion,  as  if  twisted,  bent  by  time-  dipping,  then  rising  to  meet  the  edge  of  the  woods  a  half  mile  away.  Cars  appear  on  the  horizon,  shimmer  into  the  middle  distance,  and  then  fly  past  with  a  sudden  rush  of  wind.  I  throw  pebbles  against  the  sign,  watch  a  flock  of  geese  settle  on  the  neighbor's  field,  then  walk  back  along  the  road  to  the  farm.  My  grandmother  is  alone  at  the  kitchen  table  when  I  come  in.  The  dog  collapses  onto  the  floor,  and  the  clock  ticks  off  the  heavy  silence  of  a  Sunday  afternoon.  She  asks  me  if  I  want  a  cup  of  tea,  and  as  she  puts  on  the  water  she  breaks  the  silence  with  a  sigh.  &quot;Well,  the  kittens  are  sleeping,&quot;  she  says.  It  is  a  minute  before  I  under-  stand.  &quot;You  put  them  to  sleep?&quot;  &quot;Down  by  the  spring,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;I  buried  them  under  the  boxwood  tree.&quot;  She  sits  down  in  a  chair  by  the  win-  dow,  looking  out.  &quot;It  was  peaceful,&quot;  she  adds,  but  I  hear  in  her  voice  no  sign  of  consolation.  I  picture  the  landscape  she  is  look-  ing  out  on,  the  fields  rolling  out  and  away.  I  want  to  say  something,  to  disrupt  the  quiet  of  her  thoughts.  &quot;Shall  we  feed  the  horse?&quot;  I  propose.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  she  says,  turning  to  me.  &quot;I  guess  it's  about  that  time.  He's  getting  nervous,  just  like  the  rest  of  us.&quot;  She  laughs  at  what  she  has  said  and  we  go  out,  the  dog  sprinting  out  before  us  to  the  barn.  "