 b"COMPOSER,  conductor,  critic, teacher,  iconoclast,  and  grand  old  man,  Igor  Stravinsky  be-  strode  this  century  like  a  colossus,  with  feet  on  two  different  continents.  Already  respected  and  popular  in  Eu-  rope  for  writing  pieces  like  &quot;Le  Sacre  du  Printemps,&quot;  he  became  equally  if  not  more  famous  in  his  adopted  country  of  [REDACTED].  The  many  friends  he  made  here  remember  him  as  a  man  of  breathtaking  talent,  whether  he  was  composing  an  epochal  symphony  or  playing  shadow  puppets  in  the  can-  dlelight  after  a  small  dinner  party.  Like  many  other  geniuses,  he  was  gen-  erous,  almost  profligate,  with  his  gifts.  He  would  write  beautiful  phrases  of  music  on  restaurant  napkins  and  give  them  tofriends,  acquaintances,  even  passersby.  Thoughts  bubbled  forth  from  him  in  such  a  torrent  that  often  when  he  was  sitting  in  his  den  writing  a  letter  to  a  friend  he  would  impulsive,  ly  grab  for  the  telephone,  look  up  his  friend's  number  inhis  address  book   while  holding  the  phone  to  his  ear  with  his  shoulder,  and  dial.  In  a  mat-  ter  of  seconds,  he  would  be  pouring  out  ideas  that  might  have  required  days,  even  weeks,  totravel  through  the  mails.  At  the  other  end  of  the  line,  thefriend  would  listen  with  delight  as  the  great  man  went  on,  humming  or  singing  at  times,  until  finally  he  was  &quot;all  talked  out.&quot;  Then  Stravin-  sky  would  bid  his  grateful  hearer  good-  bye,  and,  in  the  pleasant  afterglow  of  inspiration,  he  would  crumple  up  the  unfinished  letter,  throw  it  in  the  wastebasket,  and  mix  himself  a  cock-  tail.  Fortunately  for  us,  his  heirs,  Stravinsky  was  a  man  aware  ofhis  place  in  history.  With  careful  consid-  eration  for  the  students  and  biogra-  phers  he  knew  would  follow,  he  saved  his  telephone  bills  from  year  to  year,  and  before  his  death  he  donated  the  entire  corpus  to  the  K-Tel  Museum  of  the  Best  Composers  Ever.  What  a  fas-  cinating  picture  these  phone  bills  \n\npaint!  With  their  itemized  lists  of  long-distance  calls  and  charges,  they  are  like  paper  airplanes  thrown  to  us  from  the  past,  providing  a  detailed  record  of  the  seasons  of  Stravinsky's  mind  in  the  multihued  pageant  of  life  as  he  lived  it  on  a  daily  basis.  And  what  better  time  for  a  close  examina-  tion  of  the  treasures  his  phone  bills  contain  than  this,  the  year  after  the  centennial  of  Stravinsky's  birth?  (Ac-  tually,  the  centennial  year  itself  would  probably  have  been  better,  but  even  though  this  year  might  not  be  as  good  a  time  as  last  year,  still,  it  is  almost  as  good.)  Now  let  us  turn  to  the  docu-  ments:  \xc2\xae  This  call,  made  not  long  after  Stravinsky  moved  to  [REDACTED]  andhad  his  phone  hooked  up,  shows  him  adjusting  quickly  to  the  ways  of  his  new  country.  With  scenes  of  Old  World  poverty  fresh  in  his  memory,  he  has  prudently  waited  to  place  the  call  until  11:01  p.m.,  the  very  moment  when  the  lowest  off-peak  rates  go  into  effect.  Such  patience  and  calculation  indicate  a  call  that  was  professional  rather  than  social  in  nature.  Almost  certainly,  the  recipient  was  Stravin-  sky's  fellow-composer  Arnold  Schoen-  berg.  It  was  common  knowledge  that  Schoenberg  often  vacationed  in  New  Orleans,  where  he  enjoyed  the  food,  the  atmosphere,  and  the  people.  Stra-  vinsky  may  have  found  out  from  a  mu-  tual  friend  where  Schoenberg  was  staying  and  then  surprised  him  with  this  call.  Always  one  to  speak  his  mind,  Stravinsky  probably  began  by  telling  Schoenberg  that  his  dodeca-  phonic  methods  of  musical  composi-  tion  were  a  lot  of  hooey.  Very  likely,  Schoenberg  would  have  bristled  at  this,  and  may  well  have  reminded  Stravinsky  that  great  art,  like  the  Master's  own  &quot;Sacre,&quot;  need  not  be  immediately  accessible.  Stravinsky  then  probably  made  a  smart  remark  comparing  Schoenberg's  methods  to  the  methods  of  a  troop  of  monkeys  with  a  xylophone  and  some  hammers.  \n\n\nThis  probably  made  Schoenberg  pretty  mad,  and  it  is  a  testament  to  the  great  (albeit  hidden)  regard  each  man  had  for  the  other  that  the  call  lasted  as  long  as  it  did.  Possibly,  Schoenberg  just  held  his  temper  and  said  some-  thing  flip  to  defuse  the  situation,  and  then  Stravinsky  moved  on  to  another  subject.  Inasmuch  as  they  never  spoke  again,  this  intense  thirty-eight-minute  phone  conversation  may  represent  a  seminal  point  in  the  history  of  twen-  tieth-century  music  theory.  This  call  is  of  particular  interest  to  the  student  because  of  its  oddity.  One  is  compelled  toask,  &quot;Who  did  Stravinsky  know  in  Custer,  South  Da-  kota?&quot;  He  never  went  there;  none  of  his  friends  or  relatives  ever  went  there;  the  town  has  no  symphony  orchestra.  So  why  did  he  call  there?  It  is  hard  to  believe  that  on  a  June  morning  the  sudden  urge  for  a  twenty-five-minute  chat  with  a  person  in  Custer,  South  Dakota,  dropped  onto  Stravinsky  out  of  the  blue.  No,  we  must  look  else-\n\n\n\nwhere  for  an  explanation.  Two  pos-  sibilities  suggest  themselves:  (1)  an  acquaintance  of  the  composer,  perhaps  an  occasional  racquetball  partner,  a  fan,  even  a  delivery  boy  from  the  supermarket,  comes  by  the  Stravin-  skys',  sees  no  one  is  in,  and  takes  the  opportunity  to  make  along-distance  call  and  stick  someone  else  with  the  tab;  or  (2)  the  telephone  company  made  an  error.  In  either  event,  Stra-  vinsky  should  not  have  paid  the  ten  dollars  and  sixty-nine  cents,  and  I  believe  it  was  taken  from  him  unfairly,  justas  much  as  if  a  mugger  had  stolen  it  from  him  on  the  street.  \xc2\xa9  Here  we  have  a  sideof  the  com-  poser's  personality  which  we  must  face  unflinchingly  if  we  are  to  be  honest.  Every  man  hasa  dark  side;  this  is  his.  On  an  evening  in  late  September,  just  after  dinner,  Stravinsky  placed  a  call  to  New  York  and  talked  for  a  hundred  and  four  minutes.  4  hundred  and  four  minutes!  'That's  almost  two  hours!  As  one  ear  got  tired  and  he  switched  the  " b"phone  to  theother,  he  obviously  did  not  realize  how  inconsiderate  he  was  being.  It  was  as  if  he  were  the  only  person  in  the  whole  world  who  needed  to  usethe  phone.  What  if  his  wife  wanted  to  make  a  call?  What  if  some-  body  was  trying  to  call  him  from  a  pay  phone,  dialling  every  five  minutes,  only  to  hear  the  busy  signal's  maddening  refrain?  Surely,  after  an  hour  or  so  he  could  have  found  a  polite  way  to  hang  up.  Surely,  he  could  have  at  least  made  an  effort  to  think  of  someone  other  than  himself.  But  he  didn't-he  just  kept  yakking  along,  without  a  worry  or  a  care,for  over  one  hundred  selfish  minutes.  We  should  always  remember  that  theperfection  we  demand  of  our  he-  roes  they  cannot  in  reality  ever  at-  tain.  \xc2\xae  Calling  Stravinsky  collect  would  seem  to  be  the  act  of  either  a  madman  or  a  genius-or  both.  Yet  here  before  us  is  the  evidence  that  not  only  did  someone  pull  such  a  stunt  but  Stravin-  sky  actually  went  along  with  it  and  accepted  the  charges.  In  all  likelihood,  the  caller  was  a  young  admirer,  possi-  blya  music  student  (Boston  is  known  for  its  many  music  schools),  who  found  himself  in  the  middle  of  a  crea-  tive  crisis  with  nowhere  else  to  turn.  It  shows  how  nice  Stravinsky  could  be  when  he  wanted  to  be  that  he  gave  the  young  man  a  shoulder  to  cry  on,  as  well  as  some  helpful  encouragement.  The  disconsolate  youth  probably  said  that  he  despaired  of  ever  finding  an  entry-level  position  as  a  composer,  and  that  even  if  he  did  he  was  sure  he  would  never  make  very  much  per  week.  Stravinsky  may  have  gently  reminded  the  lad  that  music  is  not  a  job  buta  vocation-which  its  true  dis-  ciples  cannot  deny-and  he  may  have  added  thata  really  good  composer  can  earn  a  weekly  salary  of  from  eight  hundred  to  one  thousand  dollars.  Com-  forted,  the  student  probably  hung  up  and  returned  to  his  work  with  renewed  dedication,  and  later  went  on  to  become  Philip  Glass  or  Hugo  Winterhalter  or  Andr\xc3\xa9  Previn.  As  success  followed  success,  the  young  student  (now  adult)  would  always  remember  the  timea  great  man  cared  enough  to  listen.  \xc2\xa9  This  delightful  series  of  calls  reveals  the  Master  at  his  most  puckish.  The  time  is  a  drab  afternoon  in  mid-  winter;  Stravinsky  is  knocking  around  the  house  at  loose  ends,  possibly  with  a  case  of  the  post-holiday  blahs.  Maybe  he  starts  idly  leafing  through  a  San  Francisco  telephone  directory.  Then,  perhaps,  a  sudden  grin  crosses  his  face.  He  picks  a  number  at  random  and  dials.  One  ring.  Two  rings.  A  woman's  voice  answers.  Stravinsky  as-  sumes  a  high,  squeaky  voice.  &quot;Is  Igor  there?&quot;  he  asks.  Informed  that  he  has  the  wrong  number,  he  hangs  up.  31  Fourteen  minutes  pass.  Then  he  calls  back.  In  a  low  voice  this  time,  he  repeats  his  question:  &quot;Hi.  Is  Igor  there?&quot;  Sounding  a  bit  surprised,  the  woman  again  replies  in  the  negative.  Nineteen  minutes  later,  again  Stravinsky  dials  the  San  Francisco  number.  Now  his  voice  takes  on  a  rich  Southern  accent:  &quot;Hello,  Ma'am,  is  Igor  there?&quot;  &quot;No,  there's  nobody  by  that  name  here,&quot;  the  woman  says,  by  this  time  truly  perplexed.  Stravinsky  lets  fifteen  minutes  go  by.  Then  he  is  ready  to  deliver  the  classic  punch  line,  which  he  has  orchestrated  as  carefully  as  the  crescendo  in  one  of  his  most  beautiful  symphonies.  He  redials  the  number.  The  woman  an-  swers,  a  trace  of  annoyance  coloring  her  tone.  The  great  composer  waits  one  beat;  then,  in  his  regular  voice,  he  says,  &quot;Hello,  this  is  Igor.  Have  there  been  any  calls  for  me?&quot;  An  artist  such  as  this  comes  along  only  once  in  a  great  while.  Had  he  done  nothing  else  but  accumulate  his  remarkable  portfolio  of  phone  bills,  he  would  merit  our  consideration.  But,  of  course,  he  did  much  more  than  that,  in  music  as  well  asin  other  areas.  We  who  are  his  contemporaries  can-  not  presume  to  judge  him  in  his  total-  ity;  thattask  we  must  leave  for  future  ages  blessed  with  a  vision  far  greater  than  today's. "