 b"REMORSE  EMORSE  is  a  fairly  new  area  in  R  social  work  so  it's  no  wonder  we  getthe  short  end  when  it  comes  to  budget  and  staffing.  Take  me,  for  example.  For  three  years,  I  was  the  only  professional  remorse  officer  in  a  Department  of  Human  Ser-  vices  serving  a  city  of  more  then  1.5  million,  and  not  so  long  ago  my  super-  visor  (a  man  with  no  remorse  back-  ground  at  all)  told  me  I  was  &quot;ex-  pendable&quot;  and  that  he  would  &quot;shed  no  tears&quot;  if  remorse  was  eliminated  from  the  Department  entirely.  I  had  no  office,  only  a  desk  across  from  the  elevators,  and  I  shared  a  phone  with  the  director  of  the  Nephew  Program  in  Family  Counselling.  And  it's  not  only  me!  Around  the  country,  morale  in  remorse  has  never  been  lower.  We  in  remorse  are  a  radical  minor-  ity  within  the  social-work  community.  We  believe  that  notevery  wrong  in  our  society  is  the  result  of  complex  factors  such  as  poor  early-learning  en-  vironment  and  resultative  dissocialized  communication.  Some  wrong  is  the  re-  sult  of  bedness.  We  believe  that  some  people  act  like  jerks,  and  that  when  dealing  with  jerks  one  doesn't  waste  too  much  time  on  sympathy.  They're  jerks.  They  do  bad  things.  They  should  feel  sorry  for  what  they  did  and  stop  doing  it.  Of  course,  I'm  oversim-  plifying  here,  trying  to  state  things  in  layman's  terms,  and  I  should  add  that  we  are  professionals,  after  all,  who  are  trained  in  behavioral  methodology  i-  cluding  remorse,  but  also  a  lot  more-  if  you're  interested,  read  &quot;Principles  of  Deductive  Repentance,&quot;  by  Morse  and  Frain,or  Professor  Frain's  excellent  &quot;Failure  and  Fault:  Assignment  and  Acceptance.&quot;  I  did  my  training  under  Frain  and  graduated  in  1976,  just  as  remorse  was  coming  to  the  forefront.  People  in  the  helping  professions  had  begun  to  no-  tice  a  dramatic  increase  in  the  num-  ber  of  clients  who  did  terrible  things  and  didn't  feel  one  bit  sorry.  It  was  an  utterly  common  phenomenon  for  a  man  who  had  been  apprehended  after  months  of  senseless  carnage  to  look  at  a  social  worker  or  psychologist  with  an  expression  of  mild  dismay  and  say,  &quot;Hey,  I  know  what  you're  thinking,  but  that  wasn't  me  out  there,  it  wasn't  like  me  at  all.  I'm  really  a  very  caring  type  of  guy.  Anyway,  it's  over  now,  it's  done,  and  I  got  to  get  on  with  my  own  life,  you  know,&quot;  as  if  he  had  only  been  unkind  or  unsupportive  of  his  victims  and  not  dismembered  them  and  stuffed  them  into  mailboxes.  This  was  not  the  &quot;cold-blooded&quot;  or  &quot;hardened&quot;  criminal  but  rather  a  cheerful,  self-  accepting  one,  who  looked  on  his  crime  as  &quot;something  that  happened&quot;  and  had  a  theory  to  explain  it.  &quot;I'm  thinking  it  was  a  nutritional  thing,&quot;  one  mass  murderer  remarked  to  me  in  1978.  &quot;I  was  feeling  down  thatday.  I'd  been  doing  a  lot  of  deep-  fried  foods,  and  I  was  going  to  get  a  multi-vitamin  out  of  the  medicine  chest  when  I  noticed  all  those  peo-  ple  in  the  park  and-well,  one  thing  just  led  to  another.  I've  completely  changed  my  food  intake  since  then.  I  really  feel  good  now.  I  know  I'm  never  going  to  let  myself  get  in  that  type  of  situation  again!&quot;  It  wasn't  only  vicious  criminals  who  didn't  feel  sorry,  though.  It  was  a  regretless  time  all  around.  Your  own  best  friend  might  spill  a  glass  of  red  wine  on  your  new  white  sofa  and  im-  mediately  explain  it-no  spontaneous  shame  and  embarrassment,  just  &quot;Oh,  I've  always  had  poor  motor  skills,&quot;  or  &quot;'You  distracted  me  with  your  com-  ment  about  Bolivia.&quot;  People  walked  in  and  stole  your  shoes,  they  trashed  your  lawn  and  bullied  your  children  and  blasted  the  neighborhood  with  power-  ful  tape  machines  at  4  a.m.  and  got  stone  drunk  and  cruised  through  red lights,  smashing  your  car  and  ruining  your  life  for  the  next  six  months,  and  if  you  confronted  them  about  these  actions  they  told  you  about  a  particu-  larly  upsetting  life-experience  they'd  gone  through  recently,  such  as  con-  demnation.  In  1976,  a  major  Protestant  denom-  ination  narrowly  defeated  an  attempt  to  destigmatize  the  Prayer  of  Confes-  sion  by  removing  from  it  all  guilt  or  guilt-oriented  references:  &quot;Lord,  we  approach  Thy  Throne  of  Grace,  hav-  ing  committed  acts  which,  we  do  heartily  acknowledge,  must  be  very  difficult  for  Thee  to  understand.  Nev-  ertheless,  we  do  beseech  Thee  to  post-  pone  judgment  and  to  give  Thy  faith-  ful  servants  the  benefit  of  the  doubt  until  such  time  as  we  are  able  to  an-  swer  all  Thy  questions  fully  and  clear  up  all  Thy  doubts.&quot;  T  was  lack  of  remorse  among  criminals,  though,  that  aroused  public  outrage,  and  suddenly  we  few  professionals  in  the  field  were  under  terrible  pressure  to  have  full-fledged  remorse  programs  in  place  in  weeks,  even  days.  City  Hall  wason  the  phone,  demanding  to  see  miscreants  slumped  in  courtrooms,  weeping,  shielding  their  faces  while  led  off  to  jail.  Fine,  I  said.  Give  me  full  funding  to  hire  a  staff  and  I'll  give  you  a  re-  morse  program  you  can  be  proud  of.  My  supervisor  sneered.  &quot;Ha!&quot;  he  said.  He  said,  &quot;Get  this  straight,  showboat,  'cause  I'll  only  say  it  once.  You  work  for  me,  and  I  say  remorse  is  Number  Last  on  the  list  around  here.  Cosmet-  ics!  That's  all  City  Hall  wants  and  that's  what  we  give  them.  A  few  tears.  You  can  twist  arms,  step  on  toes,  or  use  raw  onions,  but  forget  about  fund-  ing.&quot;  His  insensitivity  shocked  me.  Re-  morselessness  is  a  fundamental  flaw,  a  crack  in  the  social  contract,  and  repair  requires  a  major  commitment.  One  man  simply  couldn't  keep  up  with  the  case  load.  I  spent  two  months  on  the  president  of  AmTox,  who  was  sent  to  me  after  his  conviction  for  dumping  tons  of  deadlywastes  into  a  scenic  gorge  and  killing  thousands  of  trout  and  who  took  a  Who-me?  attitude  toward  the  deed  until  finally  I  elicited  a  small  amount  of  shame  by  requiring  him  to  spend  Saturdays  panhandling  in  the  bus  depot,  wearing  a  sign  that  said  &quot;Help  Me,  I'm  Not  Too  Bright.&quot;  But  meanwhile  hundreds  of  others  got  off  " b"scot-free.  I'd  put  the  screws  to  the  guy  who  enjoyed  touching  pedestrians  with  his  fender,  but  meanwhile  the  guys  who  bilked  hundreds  of  elderly  women  of  their  life  savings  walked  out  the  door  saying,  &quot;Hey,  what's  the  big  deal?  So  we  exaggerated  a  little.  No  need  to  get  huffy  about  it.&quot;  It  depressed  the  hell  out  of  me.  Here  I  was,  swimming  in  paperwork  with  my  hands  tied,  and  out  on  the  street  were  jerks  on  parade:  unassuming,  pleasant,  perfectly  normal  peopleex-  ceptthat  they  had  an  extra  bone  in  their  head  and  less  moral  sense  than  God  gave  geese.  And  even  most  of  the  ones  I  did  put  through  remorse  didn't  improve  a  lot.  Six  months  ago,  thirty-  seven  former  clients  of  mine  filed  a  class-action  suit  against  the  state  de-  manding  millions  in  restitution  for  the  ethically  handicapped  and  arguing  neglect  on  the  state's  part  in  failing  to  provide  remorse  counselling  earlier.  &quot;We  have  suffered  terrible  remorse,&quot;  the  brief  said,  &quot;as  we  begin  to  recog-  nize  the  enormity  of  our  sins,  includ-  ing  butnot  limited  to:  pure  selfishness,  vicious  cruelty,  utter  dishonesty,  blind  insensitivity,  gross  neglect,  overween-  ing  pride,  etc.  And  that's  fine.  But  where  was  this  program  ten  years  ago?  Nowhere  to  be  found!  That  was  the  Me  Decade!  Is  that  our  fault?  There-  fore,  in  consideration  of  the  vast  black  abyss  of  guilt  to  which  we  have  been  suddenly  subjected,  we  demand  that  the  court  order  .  ..&quot;  My  heart  sank  as  I  read  it.  They  had  even  quoted  my  speech  to  the  Council  on  Penitential  Reform  in  1981:  Criminal  non-remorse  is  the  tip  of  a  very  large  iceberg,  and  unless  we  initiate  broad-based  remorse  reforms  on  the  com-  munity  level  and  start  talking  about  an  overhaul  of  our  entire  moral  system-  church,  media,  education,  the  parental  sys-  tem,  personal  networking,  the  entire  val-  ues-delivery  infrastructure-and  recognize  that  it  requires  major  investment  by  pri-  vate  and  public  sectors  in  professional  training  and  research  and  that  we're  look-  ing  ata  time  frame  of  years,  not  months.  and  that  we  must  begin  now,  we  simply  must,  because,  believe  me,  if  we  don't,  that  is  a  mistake  we're  going  to  live  to  regret!  The  state,  they  said  further,  had  failed  to  exercise  due  care  in  neglecting  to  warn  them  earlier  and  to  inform  them  of  the  urgent  necessity  of  changing  their  ways.  Three  days  later,  the  order  came  down  that  I  was  reassigned.  By  offer-  ing  remorse  assistance,  it  said,  I  had  needlessly  raised  people's  expectations  of  inner  peace. &quot;That  means  you,  lamebrain,&quot;  the  supervisor  cackled,  leaning  across  his  desk  and  poking  an  index  finger  in-  to  my  rib  cage.  &quot;Let's  see  how  you  like  it  in  the  basement.&quot;  He  assigned  me  to  &quot;assist  in  the  assembly  and  assessment&quot;  of  ancient  and  dusty  as-  certainment  files  in  a  dim,  airless  room  deep  in  the  bowels  of  Human  Services-useless  and  demeaning  work  that  left  me  weak  and  dispirited  after  only  a  day,  but  I  held  on  and  did  the  work  and  didn't  complain.  He  plugged  the  ventilator,  reduced  light-bulb  wattage,  denied  me  a  ra-  dio.  I  spent  three  weeks  in  that  hell-  hole,  reading  lengthy  case  histories  of  clients  long  since  deceased  and  sorting  them  into  meaningless  piles  and  at-  taching  gummed  labels  that  tasted  like  dead  socks.  Suddenly  one  afternoon,  he  ap-  peared  in  the  doorway,  his  face  drawn,  his  eyes  filled  with  tears.  &quot;I  read  Frain  last  night,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;All  night.  Why-  I-  You  should  have  told  me.  Oh  God,  oh  God!  What  have  I  done  to  you?  How  can  I  make  it  up?  You  want  my  job?  Take  it.&quot;  &quot;No,  thanks.  That's  all  right.  No  problem,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I'm  quitting.&quot;  He  begged  me  to  stay.  &quot;I  can't  live  with  my  conscience  if  you  won't  let  me  do  something  for  you.  Let  me  at  least  take  you  to  lunch.  There's  a  terrific  little  seafood  place  a  block  from  here  that  I've  been  keeping  to  myself-&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Don't  bother,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Come  five  o'clock  you'll  never  see  me  again.&quot;  I  was  true  to  my  word.  I'm  a  vice-  president  of  Yakamoto  now,  where  I've  designed  a  remorse  program  for  assembly-line  workers  to  build  strong-  er  emotional  responses  to  poor  work-  manship,  tardiness,  false  sick  days,  and  excessive  lunch  breaks.  The  job  is  challenging,  the  people  pleasant,  the  fringe  benefits  outstanding,  and  the  salary  is  three  hundred  and  nine-  ty-five  thou  a  year.  The  Japanese  place  a  high  premium  on  shame.  You  don't  see  them  treating  other  people  like  dirt.  They  even  feel  contrition  for  things  that  someone  standing  next  to  them  did!  They  treat  me  like  a  prince.  I'm  a  lucky  man.  I'm  ex-  tremely  happy  here. "