 b"I AM  eating  my  grapefruit  with  a  I  grapefruit  spoon  my  mother  bought  last  summer  from  a  door-  to-door  salesman  on  a  large  three-  wheeled  bike.  My  mother  and  I  were  sitting  on  the  front  steps  that  day  and  we  watched  him  glide  down  the  street,  into  our  driveway,  and  up  our  front  walk.  He  opened  his  case  on  the  handlebars,  and  it  was  full  of  fruit  appliances:  pineapple  corers,  melon  ballers,  watermelon  seeders,  orange-  juice  squeezers,  and  grapefruit  spoons.  My  mother  bought  four  of  the  spoons,  and  the  man  pedalled  himself  out  of  our  lives.  That  was  about  a  year  ago.  Since  then,  a  lot  has  changed,  I  think  as  I  pry  the  grapefruit  pulp  away  from  the  skin  with  the  serrated  edge  of  the  spoon.  Since  then,  my  mother  has  re-  married,  my  father  has  moved  to  Cali-  fornia,  and  I  have  stopped  talking.  Actually,  I  talk  quite  a  lot  at  school,  but  never  at  home.  I  have  nothing  to  say  to  anyone  here.  Across  the  table  from  me,  drinking  Postum,  is  my  new  stepfather.  He  wasn't  here  last  year.  I  don't  think  he  was  anywhere  last  year.  His  name  is  Lonnie,  and  my  mother  met  him  at  a  Seth  Speaks  seminar.  Seth  is  this  guy  without  a  body  who  speaks  out  of  the  mouth  of  this  lady  and  tells  you  how  to  fix  your  life.  Both  Lonnie  and  my  mother  have  fixed  their  lives.  &quot;One  day  at  a  time,&quot;  my  mother  says  every  morning,  smiling  at  Lonnie  and  then,  less  happily,  at  me.  Lonnie  is  only  thirteen  years  older  than  I  am;  he  is  twenty-nine  but  looks  about  fourteen.  When  the  three  of  us  go  out  together,  he  is  mistaken  for  my  brother.  &quot;Listen  to  this,&quot;  Lonnie  says.  Both  Lonnie  and  my  mother  continue  to  talk  to  me,  consult  with  me,  and  read  things  to  me,  in  the  hope  that  I  will  forget  and  speak.  &quot;  'If  gypsy  moths  continue  to  destroy  trees  at  their  pres-  ent  rate,  North  America  will  become  a  desert  incapable  of  supporting  any  life  by  the  year  4000.'&quot;  Lonnie  has  a  morbid  sense  of  humor  and  delights  in  macabre  newspaper  fillers.  Because  he  knows  I  won't  answer,  he  doesn't  glance  up  at  me.  He  continues  tostare  at  his  paper  and  says,  &quot;Wow.  Think  of  that.&quot;  I  look  out  the  window.  My  mother     MAY  30,  1983  is  sitting  in  an  inflated  rubber  boat  in  the  swimming  pool,  scrubbing  the  fibre  glass  walls  with  a  stiff  brush  and  Mr.  Clean.  They  get  stained  during  the  winter.  She  does  this  every  Memorial  Day.  We  always  open  the  pool  this  weekend,  and  she  always  blows  up  the  yellow  boat,  puts  on  her  Yankees  hat  so  her  hair  won't  turn  orange,  and  paddles  around  the  edge  of  the  pool,  leaving  a  trail  of  suds.  Last  year,  as  she  scrubbed,  the  dia-  mond  from  her  old  engagement  ring  fell  out  and  sank  to  the  bottom  of  the  pool.  She  was  still  married  to  my  fa-  ther,  although  they  were  planning  to  separate  after  a  last  &quot;family  vacation&quot;  in  July.  My  mother  shook  the  suds  off  her  hand  and  raised  it  in  front  of  her  face,  her  fingers  flat  as  if  she  were  admiring  a  new  ring.  &quot;Oh,  Stephen!&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  think  I've  lost  my  dia-  mond!&quot;  &quot;What?&quot;  I  said.  I  still  talked  then.  &quot;The  diamond  fell  out  of  my  ring.  Look.&quot;  I  got  up  from  the  chair  I  was  sitting  on  and  kneeled  beside  the  pool.  She  held  out  her  hand,  the  way  women  do  in  old  movies  when  they  expect  it  to  be  kissed.  I  looked  down  at  her  ring  and  she  was  right:  the  diamond  was  gone.  The  setting  looked  like  an  empty  hand  tightly  grabbing  nothing.  &quot;Do  you  see  it?&quot;&quot;  she  asked,  looking  down  into  the  pool.  Because  we  had  just  taken  the  cover  off,  the  water  was  murky.  &quot;It  must  be  down  there,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;'Maybe  if  you  dove  in?&quot;  She  looked  at  me  with  a  nice,  pleading  look  on  her  face.  I  took  off  my  shirt.  4974616c79  her  looking  at  my  chest.  There  is  no  hair  on  my  chest,  and  every  time  my  mother  sees  it  I  know  she  checks  to  see  if  any  has  grown.  I  dove  into  the  pool.  The  water  was  so  cold  my  head  ached.  I  opened  my  eyes  and  swam  quickly  around  the  bottom  of  the  pool.  I  felt  like  one  of  those  Japanese  pearl  fishers.  But  I  didn't  see  the  diamond.  I  surfaced  and  swam  to  the  side.  &quot;I  don't  see  it,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  can't  " b"see  anything.  Where's  the  mask?&quot;  &quot;Oh  dear,&quot;&quot;'  my  mother  said.  &quot;Didn't  we  throw  it  away  last  year?&quot;  &quot;I  forget,&quot;  Isaid.  I  gotout  of  the  pool  and  stood  shivering  in  the  sun.  Suddenly  I  got  the  ideathat  if  I  found  the  diamond,  maybe  my  parents  wouldn't  separate.  I  know  it  sounds  ridiculous,  but  at  that  moment,  stand-  ing  with  my  arms  crossed  over  my  thin  chest,  watching  my  mother  begin  to  cry  in  her  inflatable  boat-  at  that  moment,  the  diamond  sitting  on  the  bottom  of  the  pool  took  on  a  larger  meaning,  and  I  thought  that  if  it  were  replaced  in  the  tiny  clutching  hand  of  my  mother's  ring,  we  might  live  happily  ever  after.  So  I  had  my  father  drive  me  downtown,  and  I  bought  another  diving  mask  at  the  five-and-ten,  and  when  we  got  home  I  put  it  on-first  spitting  on  the  glass  so  it  wouldn't  fog-and  dove  into  the  water,  and  dove  again  and  again,  until  I  actually  found  the  dia-  mond,  glittering  in  a  mess  of  leaves  and  bloated  inchworms  at  the  bottom  of  the  pool.  THROW  my  grapefruit  rind  away,  and  go  outside  and  sit  on  the  edge  of  the  diving  board  with  my  feet  in  the  water.  My  mother  watches  me  for  a  second,  probably  deciding  if  it's  worthwhile  to  say  anything.  Then  she  goes  back  to  her  scrubbing.  Later,  I  am  sitting  by  the  mailbox.  Since  I've  stopped  talking,  I've  written  a  lot  of  letters.  I  write  to  men  in  prison,  and  I  answer  personal  ads,  claiming  to  be  whatever  it  is  the  placer  desires:  &quot;an  elegant  educated  young  lady  for  afternoon  pleasure,&quot;  or  a  &quot;GBM.&quot;  The  mail  from  prison  is  the  best:  long,  long  letters  about  nothing,  since  it  seems  nothing  is  done  in  prison.  A  lot  of  remembering.  A  lot  of  bizarre  requests:  Send  me  a  shoehorn.  Send  me  an  empty  egg  carton  (arts  and  crafts?).  Send  me  an  electric  tooth-  brush.  I  like  writing  letters  to  people  I've  never  met. Lonnie  is  planting  geraniums  he  bought  this  morning  in  front  of  the  A.  &amp;  P.  when  he  did  the  grocery  shopping.  Lonnie  is  very  good  about  &quot;doing  his  share.&quot;  I  am  not  about  mine.  Every  night  I  wait  with  deli-  cious  anticipation  for  my  mother  to  tell  me  to  take  out  the  garbage:  &quot;How  many  times  do  I  have  to  tell  you!  Can't  you  just  do  it?&quot;  Lonnie  gets  up  and  walks  over  to  me,  trowel  in  hand.  He  has  on  plaid  Bermuda  shorts  and  a  Disney  World  T-shirt.  If  I  talked,  I'd  ask  him  when  he  went  to  Disney  World.  But  I  can  live  without  the  information.  Lonnie  flips  the  trowel  at  me  and  it  slips  like  a  knife  into  the  ground  a  few  inches  from  my  leg.  &quot;Bingo!&quot;  Lonnie  says.  &quot;Scare  you?&quot;  I  think  when  a  person  stops  talking  people  forget  that  he  can  still  hear.  Lonnie  is  always  saying  dumb  things  to  me-things  you'd  only  say  to  a  deaf  person  or  a  baby.  &quot;What  a  day,&quot;  Lonnie  says,  as  if  to  illustrate  this  point.  He  stretches  out  beside  me,  and  I  look  at  his  longwhite  legs.  He  has  sneakers  and  white  socks  on.  He  never  goes  barefoot.  He  is  too  uptight  to  go  barefoot.  He  would  step  on  a  piece  of  glass  immediately.  That  is  the  kind  of  person  Lonnie  is.  The  Captain  Ice  Cream  truck  rolls  lazily  down  our  street.  Lonnie  stands  upand  reaches  in  his  pocket.  &quot;Would  you  like  an  ice  pop?&quot;  he  asks  me,  looking  at  his  change.  I  shake  my  head  no.  An  ice  pop!  Where  did  he  grow  up-[REDACTED]!  Lonnie  walks  into  the  street  and  flags  down  the  ice-cream  man  as  ifit  isn't  obvious  what  he's  standing  there  for.  The  truck  slows  down  and  the  ice-  cream  man  jumps  out.  It  is  a  woman.  &quot;What  can  I  get  you?&quot;  she  says,  open-  ing  the  freezer  on  the  side  of  the  truck.  It's  the  old-fashioned  kind  of  truck,  with  the  ice  cream  hidden  in  its  frozen  depths.  I  always  thought  you  needed  to  have  incredibly  long  arms  to  be  a  good  Captain  Ice  Cream  person.  &quot;Well,  I'd  like  a  nice  ice  pop,&quot;  Lonnie  says.  &quot;A  Twin  Bullet?&quot;  suggests  the  woman.  &quot;What  flavor?&quot;  &quot;Do  you  have  cherry?&quot;  Lonnie  asks.  Sure,&quot;  the  woman  says.  &quot;Cherry,  grape,  orange,  lemon,  cola,  and  tutti-  frutti.&quot;  For  a  second  I  have  a  horrible  feel-  ing  that  Lonnie  will  want  a  tutti-  frutti.  &quot;I'll  have  a  cherry,&quot;  he  says.  Lonniecomes  back,  peeling  the  35  " b"sticky  paper  from  his  cherry  Bullet.  It's  a  bright  pink  color.  The  truck  drives  away.  &quot;Guess  how  much  this  cost,&quot;  Lonnie  says,  sitting  beside  me  on  the  grass.  &quot;Sixty  cents.  It's  a  good  thing  you  didn't  want  one.&quot;  He  licks  his  fingers  and  then  the  ice  stick.  &quot;Do  you  want  a  bite&quot;&quot;  He  holds  it  out  toward  me.  Lonnie  is  so  patient  and  so  sweet.  It's  just  too  bad  he's  such  a  nerd.  I  take  a  bite  of  his  cherry  Bullet.  &quot;Good,  huh?&quot;  Lonnie  says.  He  watches  me  eat  for  a  second,  then  takes  a  bite  himself.  He  breaks  the  Bullet  in  half  and  eats  it  in  a  couple  of  huge  bites.  A  little  pink  juice  runs  down  his  chin.  &quot;What  are  you  waiting  for?&quot;  he  asks.  I  nod  toward  the  mailbox.  &quot;It's  Memorial  Day,&quot;  Lonnie  says.  &quot;The  mail  doesn't  come.&quot;  He  stands  up  and  pulls  the  trowel  out  of  the  ground.  I  think  of  King  Arthur.  &quot;There  is  no  mail  for  anyone  to-  day,&quot;  Lonnie  says.  &quot;No  matter  how  long  you  wait.&quot;  He  hands  me  his  two  Bullet  sticks  and  returns  to  his  geraniums.  I  have  this  feeling,  holding  the  stained  wooden  sticks,  that  I  will  keep  them  for  a  long,  long  time,  and  come  across  them  one  day,  and  remember  this  moment,  incorrectly.  FTER  the  coals  in  the  barbecue  have  melted  into  powder,  the  fireflies  come  out.  They  hesitatein  the  air,  as  if  stunnedby  dusk.  Lonnieand  my  mother  are  sitting  beside  the  now  clean  pool,  and  I  am  sitting  on  the  other  side  of  the  &quot;natu-  ral  forsythia  fence&quot;  that  is  planted  around  it,  watching  the  bats  swoop  from  tree  to  tree,  feeling  the  dark-  ness  clot  all  around  me.  I  can  hear  Lonnieand  my  mother  talking,  but  I  can't  make  out  what  they  are  saying.  I  love  this  time  of  day-early  eve-  ning,  early  summer.  It  makes  me  want  to  cry.  We  always  had  a  barbecue  on  Memorial  Day  with  my  father,  and  my  mother  cooked  this  year's  ham-  burgers  on  her  new  barbecue,  which  Lonnie  bought  her  for  Mother's  Day  (she's  old  enough  to  be  his  mother,  but  she  isn't,  I  would  have  said,  if  I  talked),  in  the  same  dumb  cheerful  way  she  cooked  last  year's.  She  has  no  sense  of  sanctity,  or  ritual.  She  would  give  Lonnie  my  father's  clothes  if  my  father  had  left  any  behind  to  give.  My  mother  walks  toward  me  with  the  hose,  then  past  me  toward  her  garden,  to  spray  the  pea  plants.  &quot;O.K.,&quot;  she  yells  to  Lonnie,  who  stands  by  the  spigot.  He  turns  the  knob  and  then  goes  inside.  The  light  in  the  kitchen  snaps  on.  My  mother  stands  with  one  hand  on  her  hip,  the  other  raising  and  lowering  the  hose,  throwing  large  fans  of  water  over  the  gar-  den.  She  used  to  bathe  me  every  night,  and  I  think  of  the  peas  hanging  in  their  green  skins,  dripping.  I  lie  with  one  ear  on  the  cool  grass,  and  I  can  hear  the  water  drum-  ming  into  the  garden.  It  makes  me  sleepy.  Then  I  hear  it  stop,  and  I  look  up  tosee  my  mother  walking  toward  me,  the  skin  on  her  bare  legs  and  arms  glow-  ing.  She  sits  down  beside  me,  and  for  a  while  she  says  nothing.  I  pretend  I  am  asleep  on  the  ground,  although  I  know  she  knows  I  am  awake.  Then  she  starts  to  talk,  as  I  knew  she  would.  My  mother  says,  &quot;You  are  breaking  my  heart.&quot;  She  says  it  as  if  it  were  literally  true,  as  if  her  heart  were  actually  breaking.  &quot;I  just  want  you  to  know  that,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;You're  old  enough  to  know  that  you  are  breaking  my  heart.&quot;  I  sit  up.  I  look  at  my  mother's  chest,  as  if  I  could  see  her  heart  breaking.  She  has  on  apolo  shirt  with  a  little  blue  whale  on  her  left  breast.  I  am  afraid  to  look  at  her  face.  We  sit  like  that  fora  while,  and  darkness  grows  around  us.  When  I  open  my  mouth  to  speak,  my  mother  uncoils  her  arm  from  her  side  and  covers  my  mouth  with  her  hand.  I  look  at  her.  &quot;Wait,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;Don't  say  any-  thing  yet.&quot;  I  can  feel  her  flesh  against  my  lips.  Her  wrist  smells  of  chlorine.  The  fireflies,  lighting  all  around  us,  make  me  dizzy.  "