 ON  THE  TRAIN  HEN  I  look  out  the  window,  the  earth  seems  to  have  be-  come  liquid,  rushing  to  flow  overa  falls  that  is  always  just  behind  the  last  car.  Wherever  that  may  be.  The  telephone  poles  reel  like  drunks,  losing  their  footing.  The  mountains,  white  islands  in  the  fluid  landscape,  track  us  for  miles,  the  hills  breaking  to  snow  on  their  beaches.  I  do  not  remember  boarding,  al-  though  my  mother,  who  was  here  in  the  compartment  with  us  until  a  mo-  ment  ago,  told  me  she  recalled  it  very  well.  I  was  helped  on  by  a  certain  doctor,  she  said.I  would  go  up  and  down  the  cars  looking  for  him  (and  her),  but  one  cannot  thus  look  for  a  doctor  without  arousing  the  anxiety  of  the  other  passengers  or  exciting  their  suspicion.  Certainly,  however,  I  did  not  get  on  at  the  station  of  origin;  my  mother  told  me  that  she  herself  had  al-  ready  been  riding  for  over  thirty  years.  The  porter's  name  is  Flip;  he  was  once  my  dog,  a  smooth  fox  terrier.  Now  he  makes  up  our  berths  and  brings  coffee  and  knows  more  about  the  train  than  any  of  us.  He  can  answer  all  the  unimportant  questions,  although  his  answers  are  so  polite  it  is  hard  to  tell  sometimes  just  what  he  means.  My  wife  and  I  (all  the  children  we  helped  aboard  have  gone  to  other  cars)  would  like  to  make  him  sit  with  us.  But  he  threatens  to  call  his  uncle,  the  Dawn  Guard.  I  have  formed  several  conjectures  concerning  the  length  of  the  train.  It  is  surely  either  very  long  or  very  short,  since  when  it  goes  around  a  curve  (which  it  seldom  does)  I  cannot  see  the  engine.  Possibly  it  is  infinite-but  it  may  be  of  a  closed  as  well  as  anopen  infinity.  If  the  track  were  extended  ever  westward,  forming  a  great  circle,  and  all  that  track  were  filled  with  cars,  would  not  the  spinning  earth  rush  past  them  endlessly?  That  is  precisely  what  I  see  from  the  window.  On  the  other  hand,  if  the  trackage  were  straight  (and  most  of  it  does  seem  to  be)  it  would  extend  forever  among  the  stars.  I  see  that,  too.  Perhaps  I  do  not  see  the  engine  because  the  engine  is  behind  us.  At  every  moment,  it  seems  that  we  are  stopping,  but  we  continue,  and  even  pick  up  speed.  The  mountains  crowd  closer,  as  if  to  ram  us  by  night.  I  lie  in  my  berth  listening  to  the  con-  ductor  (so  called  because  he  was  struck  by  lightning  once)  come  down  the  car  checking  our  tickets  in  the  dark.  