 b" Mr.  Martin  Hergesheimer  Poetry  Editor  T  he  National  Monthly  Dear  Mr.  HeroresurimErR:  I  enclose  for  your  consideration  the  opening  five  sections  of  my  narrative  poem  &quot;Nostradamus,&quot;  constituting  Volume  One  of  a  projected  twelve-vol-  ume  narrative  of  Nostradamus's  life.  I  realize  that  the  entire  volume  may  bea  bit  long  for  TNM's  format.  (Only  a  page  or  two  longer  than  that-  I  thought-prolix  elegy  by  Ashby  Wickes  that  you  recently  printed,  however.)  If  length  is  a  problem,  I  would  be  willing  for  the  poem  to  be  serialized.  Or  it  could  be  excerpted  as  follows:  Sections  2  and  3,  followed  by  the  first  hundred  and  fifty  lines  of  Section  5  (through  the  line  &quot;The  drear  saliva  of  the  Saracen  maw&quot;),  retitled  &quot;Earth,  Angels,  and  Astro-  nauts.&quot;  Another  possibility  would  be  to  print  Section  5,  in  its  entirety  and  with  its  present  title,  followed  by  Section  1.  Or  do  you  feel  that  the  material  in  Section  2,  about  Nostradamus's  second  marriage,  is  too  essential  tocut?  The  footnotes-though  perhaps  helpful  to  readers  unfamiliar  with  such  material  as  the  Plague  of  1547,  the  rather  bizarre  intrigues  of  the  Court,  or  the  Scientific  American  article  from  which  I  quote  in  Sec-  tion  4-are  optional.  Even  if  you  decide  that  is  not  the  right  place  for  the  poem,  I  will  be  looking  forward  eagerly  to  your  re-  sponse.  I  recently  read  your  new  book,  and  was  particularly  interested  by  your  poem  &quot;Meadow,&quot;  since  my  book  &quot;Pasteur:  A  Poem&quot;  contains  a  longish  passage  about  a  pasture.  I  will  have  my  publisher,  [REDACTED]  Indian  Press,  send  you  a  review  copy.  Sincerely  yours,  Patrick  Cutwarp  Drar  Marty  HrrRGESHEIMER,  Hil-I  hope  that  you  remember  me.  We  met  after  the  lecture  you  gave  last  January  here  at  Rank  College.  My  husband  and  I  are  the  couple  in  the  pickup  who  &quot;rescued&quot;  you  from  that  snowbank  after  Hap  Bentweiler's  car  skidded  off  I-80  on  the  way  to  the  Ramada  Inn.  Remember  our  bottle  of  Cherry  Heering?  (!)  Here  arethree  of  the  sonnets  I  like  best  from  my  &quot;Farm  Wife&quot;  sequence,  which  I  told  you  about.  Also,  just  for  the  fun  of  it,  a  new  one,  &quot;Astronaut.&quot;  Everyone  in  the  Department  en-  joyed  your  talk;  though  admittedly  small,  the  audience  wasn't  nearly  as  apathetic  as  it  must  have  seemed-  afraid  that's  just  the  typical  Rank  re-  sponse.  (No  pun  intended!)  I  can  still  picture  your  face  when  Hap  told  you  that  dear  old  Rank  County  is  dry!  I  have  recently  had  poems  accepted  by  the  Minnetona  Quarterly,  T  he  Rank  Review,  and  the  Philadelphia  Inquirer.  Yours,  Mindy  Luther  Dear  HerorsHrimER-  I  thought  that  T  he  National  Month--  ly  might  be  interested  in  publishing  my  oem  &quot;t  'W  &amp;  &quot;4  ot/  fu  af  The  printer  should  photograph  the  poem  directly  from  the  enclosed  copy  of  my  typescript.  Contributor's  notes:  sTen  tOrn-  quist  is  the  author  of  sixteen  books  of  poetry  and  thirty  novels,  as  well  as  his  recent  cultural  history  of  the  late  seventies,  &quot;Barfing  America&quot;  (Nor-  ton).  He  is  the  editor  of  Cold  Calm  Press  and  ThumbScrew  Editions.  His  magazine,  enGuegeGauge,  recently  received  a  $550,000  grant  from  the  National  Endowment  for  the  Arts.  Cheers,  sTen  tOrnquist  Drar  Mr.  HercorsneimErR:  Enclosed  are  a  poem,  &quot;The  Pangs  of  Silenus,&quot;  submitted  for  publication  in  The  Netional  Monthly,  and  return  envelope.  It  might  amuse  you  to  know  that  this  would  be  my  first  publication  in  TNM  since  some  forty  years  ago,  when  the  poetry  editor  was  the  late  C.  Bradley  Flemming,  that  lovable  old  scoundrel  and  crypto-  Trotskyite.  Be-  fore  I  fell  afoul  of  him,  Chuck  wrote  me  a  letter  in  which  he  called  my  early  poem  &quot;The  Nausea  of  Narcissus:  An  Ode&quot;  &quot;.  ..  the  most  searching  lyric  of  its  kind  that  our  generation  has  yet  pro-  duced.&quot;  Well,  he  was  a  strange  man,  andan  unspeakably  ugly  drunk,  but  a  fine  critic.  We  won't  seehis  like  again.  Best  wishes  to  you  in  your  work.  Yours  truly,  Edward  Cabot  Cooper  [REDACTED]  Though  most  of  the  allusions  in  the  poem  are  Classical,  the  third  stanza  refers  to  the  first  man  to  walk  on  the  moon  (i.e.,  Diana).  D:ar  Martin  HErorsurImER,  Please  find  enclosed  two  poems,  &quot;The  False  Pylon:  To  S.T.&quot;  and  &quot;Hurting  the  Mother  Ship:  To  a  Space(d)  [REDACTED];  Please  note  my  new  address,  c/o  the  Hecate  Collaborative.  I  no  longer  have  any  association  with  enGuegeGauge  or  Cold  Calm  Press,  which  I  found-  ed.  My  poems  have  appeared  recently  in  Fly  Revu,  Crazy  Sister,  Pokmark,  and  South  Dakota  Studies  in  Women's  Literature.  I  am  an  associate  director  of  Medea  Jr.  Press,  which  recently  received  a  grant  of  $1,000,500  from  the  National  Endowment  for  the  Arts.  Sincerely,  Rhonda  tOrnquist-Fornicola  Dear  Martin  HrrorsHEImER,  Please  consider  the  enclosed  four  poems  for  publication  in  TNM.  \xc2\xab'Space  Travel&quot;  is  occasioned  by  (yikes!)  the  Space  Shuttle,  a  pretty  weird  subject.  I  lay  it  on  you  because  I  think  that  you  like  poems  that  are  less  probing  and  disquieting  than  my  work  often  tends  to  be.  The  other  three  poems  are  also  relatively  bland  and  occasional  (which  makes  me  think  you  may  like  them),  as  well  as  being  set  in  a  place  we  both  know  well-Long  Island!  Yes,  I  too  am  from  &quot;da  Island,&quot;  thar  great  nothing  whose  atmosphere  you  so  often  catch  a  bit  of  in  &quot;Meadow  and  Other  Poems.&quot;  I  don't  know  if  you've  seen  it,  but  I  have  an  essay,  &quot;The  Emptiness  of  Fallow  Nettles:  Martin  Herges-  heimer's  Overinflated  Meadow,&quot;  in  the  latest  issue  of  The  Open  Space  Review.  I'd  be  interested  in  your  response.  The  essay  is  somewhat  tougher  than  I  actually  feel  toward  someone  who  knows  the  genius  of  Rockville  Centre  from  the  inside  out,  and  has  written  the  only  decent  poem  about  shopping  malls  that  I  know  of.  Sincerely,  Mark  Jekyl  Drar  Martin,  Well,  it  certainly  has  taken  me  some  nerve  to  do  this,  but  here  I  am-  submitting  a  little  poetry  to  the  one  awesome  figure  who  knows  more  about  poems  than  anybody  else  alive!  All  kidding  aside,  I  just  couldn't  re-  sist  giving  you  a  look  at  this.  Can't  wait  to  hear  what  you  have  to  say.  (Make  it  good,  kiddo-tee-hee!)  A  certain  person  whom  you  may  recognize  as  the  Space  Voyager  (lines  7-16)  sends  his  love.  Love,  Mom "