 b"ON  a  hot  Sunday  morning  in  the  summer  of  1963,  I  was  sitting  with  my  mother,  my  brother  Matthew,  and  my  Aunts  Lily,  Emma,  and  May  in  a  central  pew  of  the  New  African  Baptist  Church.  It  was  mid-  August,  and  the  hum  of  the  big  elec-  tric  fans  at  the  back  of  the  church  was  almost  enough  to  muffle  my  father's  voice  from  the  pulpit;  behind  me  I  could  hear  Mrs.  Gordon,  a  stout,  fee-  ble  old  woman  who  always  complained  of  dizziness,  remark  sharply  to  her  daughter  that  at  the  rate  the  air-condi-  tioning  fund  was  growing  it  might  as  well  be  for  the  next  century.  Facin  the  congregation,  my  father-who  was  Reverend  Ashley  to  the  rest  of  the  world-mopped  his  brow  with  a  handkerchief  and  drank  glasses  of  ice  water  from  the  heavy  old-fashioned  pitcher  on  the  table  by  his  side.  He  was  still  reading  the  text.  Next,  he'd  do  the  sermon,  then  the  baptism,  and  it  would  be  an  hour,  maybe  two,  before  the  service  was  over.  I  rubbed  my  chin  and  then  idly  began  to  snap  the  elastic  band  that  held  my  red  straw  hat  in  place  over  two  stiff  shoulder-length  braids.  What  I  really  wanted  to  do,  I  de-  cided,  was  to  go  home,  put  on  my  shorts,  and  climb  up  into  the  tree house  I'd  built  the  day  before  with  Matthew.  We'd  nailed  an  old  bushel  basket  high  in  the  branches  of  the  big  maple  tree  that  stretched  above  the  sidewalk  in  front  ofthe  house;  it  made  a  crows  nest  where  you  could  sit  com-  fortably,  except  for  a  few  splinters,  and  read  or  peer  through  the  dusty  leaves  at  the  carsthat  passed  down  the  quiet  suburban  road.  There  was  shade  and  wind  and  a  feeling  of  adventure  in  a  treetop,  where  the  air  seemed  to  vi-  brate  with  the  dry  rhythm  of  the  cica-  das;  it  was  as  different  as  possible  from  church,  where  trolleys  passing  in  the  city  street  outside  set  the  stained-glass  windows  rattling  and  the  packed  con-  gregation  sat  in  a  near-visible  miasma  of  emotion  and  cologne.  I  slouched  between  Mama  and  Aunt  Lily  and  felt  myself  going  limp  with  lassitude  and  boredom,  as  if  the  heat  had  melted  my  bones;  the  only  thing  about  me  with  any  character  seemed  to  be  my  firmly  starched  eyelet  dress.  Be-  low  the  scalloped  hem,  my  legs  were  skinny  and  wiry,  the  legs  of  a  ten-  year-old  amazon,  scarred  from  violent  adventures  with  bicycles  and  skates.  A  fingernail  tapped  my  wrist;  it  was  Aunt  Emma,  reaching  across  Aunt  Lily  to  press  a  piece  of  butterscotch  into  my  hand.  When  I  slipped  the  candy  into  my  mouth,  it  tasted  faintly  of  Arp\xc3\xa9ge;  my  mother  and  her  three  sisters  were  monumental  women,  am-  ple  of  bust  and  slim  of  ankle,  with  a  weakness  for  elegant  footwear  and  French  perfume.  As  they  leaned  back  and  forth  to  exchange  discreet  bits  of  gossip,  they  fanned  themselves  and  me  with  fans  from  the  Byron  J.  Wiggins  Funeral  Parlor.  The  fans,  which  were  fluttering  throughout  the  church,  bore  a  depiction  of  the  Good  Shepherd:  a  hollow-eyed  blond  Christ  holding  three  fat  pink-cheeked  children.  This  Christ  resembled  the  Christ  who  stood  among  apostles  on  the  stained-glass  windows  of  the  church.  Deacon  Wig-  gins,  a  thoughtful  man,  had  also  pro-  vided  New  African  with  a  few  dozen  fans  bearing  the  picture  of  a  black  child  praying,  but  I  rarely  saw  these  in  use.  HERE  was  little  that  was  new  or  very  African  about  the  New  Af-  rican  Baptist  Church:  the  original  congregation  had  been  formed  in  1813  by  three  young  men  from  Philadel-  phia's  large  community  of  free  blacks,  and  before  many  generations  had  passed  it  had  become  spiritual  home  to  a  collection  of  prosperous,  conserva-  tive,  generally  light-skinned  parishio-  ners.  The  church  was  a  gray  Goth-  ic  structure,  set  on  the  corner  of  a  run-down  streetin  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  a  dozen  blocks  below  Rit-  tenhouse  Square  and  a  few  blocks  west  of  the  spare,  clannish  Italian  neighborhoods  that  pro-  duced  Frankie  Avalon  and  Frank  Rizzo.  At  the  turn  of  the  century,  the  neighborhood  had  been  a  tidy  collection  of  brick  houses  with  scrubbed  marble  steps-  the  homes  of  a  group  of  solid  citizens  whom  Booker  T.  Washing-  ton,  in  a  centennial  ad-  dress  to  the  church,  de-  scribed  as  &quot;the  ablest  Negro  businessmen  of  our  generation.&quot;  Here  my  father  had  grown  up  aspiring  to  preach  to  the  congregation  of  New  African-an  am-  bition  encouraged  by  my  grandmother  Ashley,  a  formidable  churchwom-  an;  here,  too,  my  moth-  " b"er  and  her  sisters  had  walked  with  linked  arms  to  Sunday  services,  ex-  changing  affected  little  catch  phrases  of  Latin  and  French  they  had  learned  at  Girls'  High.  In  the  nineteen-fifties,  many  of  the  parishioners,  seized  by  the  national  urge  toward  the  suburbs,  moved  to  newly  integrated  towns  outside  the  city,  leaving  the  streets  around  New  African  to  fill  with  bottles  and  papers  and  loungers.  The  big  church  stood  suddenly  isolated.  It  had  not  been  abandoned-on  Sundays  the  front  steps  overflowed  with  members  who  had  driven  in-but  there  was  a  tenta-  tive  feeling  in  the  atmosphere  of  those  Sunday  mornings,  as  if  through  the  muddle  of  social  change  thefuture  of  New  African  had  become  unclear.  Matthew  and  I,  suburban  children,  felt  a  mixture  of  pride  and  animosity  toward  the  church.  On  the  one  hand,  it  was  a  marvellous  private  domain,  a  richly  decorated  and  infinitely  sugges-  tive  playground  where  we  were  petted  by  a  congregation  that  adored  our  fa-  ther;  on  the  other  hand,  it  seemed  a  bit  like  a  dreadful  old  relative  in  the  city,  one  who  forced  us  into  tedious  visits  and  who  linkedus  to  a  pastthat  came  to  seem  embarrassingly  primitive  as  we  grew  older.  I  SLID  down  in  my  seat,  let  my  head  roll  back,  and  looked  up  at  the  blue  arches  of  the  church  ceil-  ing.  Lower  than  these,  in  back  of  the  altar,  was  an  enormous  gilded  cross.  Still  lower,  in  a  semicircle  around  the  pulpit,  sat  the  choir,  flanked  by  two  tall  golden  files  of  organ  pipes,  and  below  the  choir  was  a  sombre  cres-  cent  of  dark-suited  deacons.  In  front,  at  the  center  of  everything,  his  bald  head  gleaming  under  the  lights,  was  Daddy.  On  summer  Sundays  he  wore  white  robes,  and  when  he  raised  his  arms  the  heavy  material  fell  in  curv-  ing  folds,like  the  ridged  petals  of  an  Easter  lily.  Usually  when  I  came  through  the  crowd  to  kiss  him  after  the  service,his  cheek  beneath  my  lips  felt  wetand  gravelly  with  sweat  and  a  new  growth  of  beard  sprouted  since  morning.  Today,  however,  was  a  bap-  tismal  Sunday,  and  I  wouldn'thave  a  chance  to  kiss  him  until  he  was  fresh-  ly  shaven  and  cool  from  the  shower  he  took  after  the  ceremony.  The  bap-  tismal  pool  was  in  an  alcove  to  the  left  of  the  altar;  it  had  mirrored  walls  and  red  velvet  curtains,  and  above  it,  sway-  ing  on  a  string,  hung  a  stuffed  white  dove.    Daddy  paused  in  the  invocation  and  asked  the  choir  to  pray.  The  choir  began  to  sing  softly:  Blessed  assurance,  Jesus  is  mine!  O  what  a  foretaste  Of  glory  divine!  In  the  middle  of  the  hymn,  I  edged  my  head  around  my  mother's  muscular  arm  (she  swam  every  day  of  the  sum-  mer)  and  peered  at  Matthew.  He  sat  bolt  upright  in  his  navy-blue  summer  suit,  holding  a  hymnal  and  a  pencil,  his  long  legs  planted  in  front  of  him,  his  freckled  twelve-year-old  face  that  was  so  like  my  father's  wearing  not  the  demonic  grin  it  bore  when  we  played  alone  but  a  maddeningly  com-  posed,  attentive  expression.  &quot;Two  hours!&quot;  I  mouthed  at  him,  and  pulled  back  at  a  warning  pressure  from  my  mother.  Then  I  joined  in  the  singing,  feeling  disappointed:  Matthew  had  re-  turned  me  a  look  of  scorn.  Just  lately,  he  had  started  actingvery  superior  and  tolerant  about  tedious  Sunday  morn-  ings.  A  month  before,  he'd  been  bap-  tized,  marching  up  to  the  pool  in  a  line  of  white-robed  children,  as  the  con-  gregation  murmured  happily  about  Reverend  Ashley's  son.  Afterward,  Mrs.  Pinkston,  a  tiny  yellow-skinned  old  woman  with  a  blind  left  eye,  had  come  up  and  given  me  a  painful  hug,  whispering  that  she  was  praying  night  and  day  for  the  pastor's  daughter  to  hear  the  call.  Whenever  I  thought  about  baptism,  I  bit  my  fingernails;  the  subject  brought  out  a  deep-rooted  balkiness  in  me.  Ever  since  I  could  remember,  Matthew  and  I  had  made  a  game  of  dispelling  the  mysteries  of  worship  with  a  gleeful  secular  eye:  we  knew  how  the  bread  and  wine  were  prepared  for  Communion,  and  where  Daddy  bought  his  robes  (Ekhardt  Brothers,  " b" in  north  [REDACTED],  makers  also  of  robes  for  choirs,  academicians,  and  judges).  Yet  there  was  an  unassailable  magic  about  an  act  as  public  and  dra-  matic  as  baptism.  I  felt  toward  it  the  slightly  exasperated  awe  a  stagehand  may  feel  on  realizing  that  although  he  can  identify  with  professional  exacti-  tude  the  minutest  components  of  a  show,  there  is  still  something  indefin-  able  in  the  power  that  makes  it  a  cohe-  sive  whole.  Though  I  could  not  put  it  into  words,  I  believed  that  the  decision  to  make  a  frightening  and  embarrass-  ing  backward  plunge  into  apool  of  sanctified  water  meant  that  youhad  received  a  summons  to  Christianity  as  unmistakable  as  the  blare  of  an  auto-  mobile  horn.  I  believed  this  with  the  same  fervor  with  which,  already,  I  believed  in  the  power  of  romance,  es-  pecially  in  the  miraculous  efficacy  of  a  lover's  first  kiss.  I  had  never  been  Hump  ofa  bad  used  car  to  get  help.  kissed  by  a  lover,  nor  had  I  heard  the  call  to  baptism.  For  a  Baptist  minister  and  his  wife,  my  father  and  mother  were  unusually  relaxed  about  religion:  Matthew  and  I  had  never  been  required  to  read  the  Bible,  and  my  father's  sermons  had  been  criticized  by  some  older  church  members  for  omitting  the  word  &quot;sin.&quot;  Mama  and  Daddy  never  tried  to  push  me  toward  baptism,  buta  number  of  other  people  did.  On  holidays,  when  I  would  retreat  from  the  noise  of  the  family  dinner  table  and  try  to  read  in  my  favorite  place,  the  window  seat  in  Matthew's  room,  with  the  curtains  drawn  to  form  a  tent,  Aunt  Lily  would  come  and  find  me.  She  was  the  youngest  of  my  mother's  sisters,  a  kin-  dergarten  teacher  with  the  fatally  overdeveloped  air  of  quaintness  that  is  one  mark  of  an  old  maid.  Aunt  Lily  hoped  and  hoped  again  with  various  suitors,  but  even  I  knew  she  would  never  find  a  husband.  I  respected  her  because  she  gave  me  wonderful  books  of  fairy  tales,  inscribed  in  her  neat,  loopy  writing;  when  she  talked  about  religion,  however,  she  assumed  an  anxious,  flirtatious  air  that  made  me  cringe.  &quot;Well,  Miss  Sarah,  what  are  you  scared  of?&quot;  she  would  ask,  and  tug  gently  on  one  of  my  braids,  bringing  her  plump  face  so  close  to  mine  that  I  could  see  her  powder,  which  was,  in  accordance  with  the  custom  of  fash-  ionable  colored  ladies,  several  shades  " b"lighter  than  her  olive  skin.  &quot;God  isn't  anyone  to  be  afraid  of,&quot;  she'd  con-  tinue,  asI  looked  at  her  with  my  best  deadpan  expression.  &quot;He's  someone  nice,  just  as  nice  as  your  daddy&quot;-I  had  always  suspected  Aunt  Lily  of  having  a  crush  on  my  father-&quot;and  he  loves  you,  in  the  same  way  your  daddy  does.&quot;  &quot;You  would  make  us  all  so  happy!&quot;  I  was  told  at  different  times  by  Aunt  Lily,  Aunt  Emma,  and  Aunt  May.  The  only  people  who  said  nothing  at  all  were  Mama  and  Daddy,  but  I  sensed  in  them  a  thoughtful  suppressed  wistfulness  that  maddened  me.  FTER  the  hymn,  Daddy  read  aloud  a  few  verses  from  the  third  chapter  of  Luke-verses  I  recognized  in  the  almost  instinctive  way  in  which  I  was  familiar  with  all  of  the  well-  travelled  parts  of  the  Old  and  New  Testaments.  &quot;Prepare  ye  the  way  of  the  Lord,  make  his  paths  straight,&quot;  he  read,  in  a  mild  voice.  &quot;Every  valley  shall  be  filled,  and  every  mountain  and  hill  shall  be  brought  low;  and  the  crooked  shall  be  made  straight,  and  the  rough  ways  shall  be  made  smooth;  And  all  flesh  shall  see  the  sal-  vation  of  God.&quot;  He  had  ahabit  of  pausing  to  fix  his     gaze  on  part  of  the  congregation  as  he  read,  and  that  Sunday  he  seemed  to  be  talking  toa  small  group  of  strang-  ers  who  sat  in  the  front  row.  These  visitors  were  young  white  men  and  women,  students  from  [REDACTED]  colleges,  who  for  the  past  year  had  been  coming  to  hear  him  talk.  It  was  hard  to  tell  them  apart:  all  the  men  seemed  to  have  beards,  and  the  women  wore  their  hair  long  and  straight.  Their  informal  clothes  stood  out  in  that  elaborate  assembly,  and  church  members  whispered  angrily  that  the  young  women  didn't  wear  hats.  I  found  the  students  appealing  and  rather  romantic,  with  their  earnest  eyes  and  timid  air  of  being  perpetually  sorry  about  something.  It  was  clear  that  they  had  good  intentions,  and  I  could  not  understand  why  so  many  of  the  adults  in  the  congregation  seemed  to  dislike  them.  After  services,  they  would  hover  around  Daddy.  &quot;Never  a  more  beautiful  sermon,&quot;  they  would  say  in  low,  fervent  voices,  and  some-  timesthey  seemed  to  have  tears  in  their  eyes.  I  wasn't  impressed  by  their  praise  of  my  father;  it  was  only  what  everyone  said.  People  called  him  a  champion  of  civil  rights;  he  gave  speeches  on  the  radio,  and  occasionally  he  appeared  on   television.  (The  first  time  I'd  seen  him  on  Channel  5,  I'd  been  gravely  disap-  pointed  by  the  way  he  looked:  the  bright  lights  exaggerated  the  furrows  that  ran  between  his  nose  and  mouth,  and.his  narrow  eyes  gave  him  a  sinis-  ter  air;  he  looked  like  an  Oriental  vil-  lainin  a  Saturday-afternoon  thriller.)  During  the  past  year,  he'd  organized  a  boycott  that  integrated  the  staff  of  a  huge  food  plant  in  [REDACTED],  and  he'd  been  away  several  times  to  attend  marches  and  meetings  in  the  [REDACTED].  I  was  privately  embarrassed  to  have  a  parent  who  freely  admitted  going  to  jail  in  [REDACTED],  but  the  students  who  visited  New  African  seemed  to  think  it  almost  miraculous.  Their  conversa-  tions  with  my  father  were  peppered  with  references  to  places  I  had  never  seen,  towns  I  imagined  as  being  swathed  in  a  mist  of  darkness  visible:  Selma,  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  Biloxi.  MATTHEW  and  I  had  long  ago  ob-  served  that  what  Daddy  gener-  ally  did  in  his  sermons  was  to  speak  very  softly  and  then  surprise  everyone  with  a  shout.  Of  course,  I  knew  that  there  was  more  to  it  than  that:  even  in  those  days,  I  recognized  a  genius  of  personality  in  my  father.  He  loved  crowds,  handling  them  with  the  expert  " b"good  humor  of  a  man  entirely  in  his  element.  At  church  banquets,  at  the  vast  annual  picnic  that  was  held  at  a  lake  in  New  Jersey,  or  at  any  gather-  ing  in  the  back  yards  and  living  rooms  of  the  town  where  we  lived,  the  sound  I  heard  most  often  was  the  booming  of  Daddy's  voice  followed  by  shouts  of  laughter  from  the  people  around  him.  He  had  a  passion  for  oratory;  at  home  he  infuriated  Matthew  and  me  by  staging  absurd  debates  at  the  dinner  table,  verbal  melees  that  he  won  quite  selfishly,  with  a  loud  crow  of  delight  at  his  own  virtuosity.  &quot;Is  a  fruit  a  vegetable?&quot;  he  would  demand.  &quot;Is  a  zipper  a  machine?&quot;  Matthew  and  I  would  plead  with  him  to  be  quiet  as  we  strained  to  get  our  points  across,  but  it  was  no  use.  When  the  last  word  had  resounded  and  we  sat  looking  at  him  in  irritated  silence,  he  would  clear  his  throat,  settle  his  collar,  and  resume  eating,  his  face  still  glowing  with  an  irrepressible  glee.  When  he  preached,  he  showed  the  same  private  delight:  a  look  of  rapt  pleasure  seemed  to  broaden  and  brighten  the  contours  of  his  angular  face  until  it  actually  appeared  to  give  off  light  as  he  spoke.  He  could  preach  in  two  very  different  ways.  One  was  \xe2\x80\x9dMWM  \xc2\xbb  fining  e  tp     vont  the  delicate,  sonorous  idiom  of  formal  oratory,  with  which  he  must  have  won  the  prizes  he  held  from  his  seminary  days.  The  second  was  a  hectoring,  insinuating,  incantatory  tone,  full  of  the  rhythms  of  the  [REDACTED]  he  had  never  lived  in,  linking  him  to  generations  of  thunderous  Baptist  preachers.  When  he  used  this  tone,  as  he  was  doing  now,  affectionate  laughter  rippled  through  the  pews.  &quot;I  know,&quot;  he  said,  looking  out  over  the  congregation  and  blinking  his  eyes  rapidly,  &quot;that  there  are  certain  people  in  this  room-oh,  I  don't  have  to  name  names  or  point  a  finger-who  have  ignored  that  small  true  voice,  the  voice  that  is  the  voice  of  Jesus  calling  out  in  the  shadowy  depths  of  the  soul.  And  while  you  all  are  looking  around  and  wondering  just  who  those  'certain  people'  are,  I  want  to  tell  you  a  secret:  they  are  you  and  me  and  your  brother-  in-law,  and  every  man,  woman,  and  child  here  this  morning.  All  of  us  listen  to  our  bellies  when  they  tell  us  it  is  time  to  eat,  we  pay  attention  to  our  eyes  when  they  grow  heavy  from  wanting  sleep,  but  when  it  comes  to  the  sacred  knowledge  our  hearts  can  offer,  we  are  deaf,  dumb,  blind,  and  senseless.  Throw  away  that  blindness,  APRIL  25,  1983  that  deafness,  that  sulky  indifference.  When  all  the  world  lies  to  you,  Jesus  will  tell  you  what  is  right.  Listen  to  him.  Call  on  him.  In  these  times  of  con-  fusion,  when  there  are  a  dozen  different  ways  to  turn,  and  Mama  and  Papa  can't  help  you,  trust  Jesus  to  set  you  straight.  Listen  to  him.  The  Son  of  God  has  the  answers.  Call  on  him.  Call  on  him.  Call  on  him.&quot;  The  sermon  was  punc-  tuated  with  an  occasional  loud  &quot;Amen!&quot;  from  Miss  Middleton,  an  excitable  old  lady  whose  eyes  flashed  defiantly  at  the  reproving  faces  of  those  around  her.  New  African  was  not  the  kind  of  Baptist  church  where  shouting  was  a  nor-  mal  part  of  the  service;  I  sometimes  heard  my  father  mock  the  staid  congrega-  tion  by  calling  it  Saint  African.  Whenever  Miss  Middleton  loosed  her  tongue  (sometimes  she  went  off  into  fits  of  raptur-  ous  shrieks  and  had  to  be  helped  out-  side  by  the  church  nurse),  my  mother  and  aunts  exchanged  grimaces  and  shrugged,  as  if  confronted  by  incom-  prehensibly  barbarous  behavior.  When  Daddy  had  spoken  the  final  words  of  the  sermon,  he  drank  a  glass  of  water  and  vanished  through  the  set  of  red  velvet  curtains  to  the  right  of  the  altar.  At  the  same  time,  the  choir  began  what  was  described  in  the  church  bulletin  as  a  &quot;selection.&quot;  Selec-  tions  were  arenas  for  the  running  dis-  pute  between  the  choir  and  the  choir-  master.  Jordan  Grimes,  the  choirmas-  ter,  was  a  Curtis  graduate  who  was  partial  to  Handel,  but  the  choir  pre-  ferred  artistic  spirituals  performed  in  the  lush,  heroic  style  of  Paul  Robeson.  Grimes  had  triumphed  that  Sunday.  As  the  choir  gave  a  spirited  but  un-  willing  rendition  of  Agnus  Dei,  I  saw  old  Deacon  [REDACTED]  smile  in  approval.  A  veteran  of  the  Spanish-American  War,  he  admitted  to  being  ninety-four  but  was  said  to  be  older;his  round  yellow-  ish  face,  otherwise  unlined,  bore  three  deliberate-looking  horizontal  creases  on  the  brow,  like  carvings  on  a  scarab.  &quot;That  old  man  is  as  flirtatious  as  a  boy  of  twenty!&quot;  my  mother  often  said,  watching  his  stiff,  courtly  movements  " b"among  the  ladies  of  the  church,  Some-  times  he  gave  me  a  dry  kiss  and  a  piece  of  peppermint  after  the  service;I  liked  his  crackling  white  collars  and  smell  of  bay  rum.  HE  selection  ended;  Jordan  Grimes  struck  two  deep  chords  on  the  organ,  and  the  lights  in  the  church  went  low.  A  subtle  stir  ran  through  the  congregation,  and  I  moved  closer  to  my  mother.  This  was  the  moment  that  fascinated  and  disturbed  me  more  than  anything  elseat  church:  the  pre-  lude  to  the  ceremony  of  baptism.  Dea-  con  [REDACTED]  rose  and  drew  open  the  drap-  eries  that  had  been  closed  around  the  baptismal  pool,  and  there  stood  my  father  in  water  to  his  waist.  The  choir  began  to  sing:  We're  marching  to  Zion,  Beautiful,  beautiful  Zion;  We're  marching  upward  to  Zion,  The  beautiful  city  of  God.  Down  the  aisle,  guided  by  two  church  mothers,  came  a  procession  of  eight  children  and  adolescents.  They  wore  white  robes,  the  girls  with  white  ribbons  in  theirhair,  and  they  all  had  solemn  expressions  of  terror  on  their  faces.  I  knew  each  one  of  them.  There  was  Billy  Price,  a  big  slow-moving  boy  of  thirteen,  the  son  of  Deacon  Price.  There  were  the  Duckery  twins.  There  was  Caroline  Piggee,  whom  I  hated  because  of  her  long  black  curls,  her  dimpled  pink  face,  and  her  lisp  that  ravished  grownups.  There  was  Georgie  Battis  and  Sue  Anne  Ivory,  and  Wendell  and  Mabel  Cullen.  My  mother  gave  me  a  nudge.  &quot;Run  up  to  the  side  of  thepool!&quot;  she  whis-  pered.  It  was  the  custom  for  unbap-  tized  children  to  watch  the  ceremony  from  the  front  of  the  church.  They  sat  on  the  knees  of  the  deacons  and  church  mothers,  and  it  was  not  unusual  for  a  child  to  volunteer  then  and  there  for  next  month's  baptism.  I  made  my  way  quickly  down  the  dark  aisle,  feeling  the  carpet  slip  under  the  smooth  soles  of  my  patent-leather  shoes.  When  I  reached  the  front  pew,  I  sat  down  in  the  bony  lap  of  Bessie  Gray,  an  old  woman  who  often  took  care  of  Matthew  and  me  when  our  parents  were  away;  we  called  her  Aunt  Bessie.  She  was  a  fanatically  devout  Christian  whose  strict  ideas  on  child-rearing  had  evolved  over  decades  of  domestic  ser-  viceto  a  rich  white  family  in  Dela-  ware;  the  link  between  us,  a  mixture  of  hostility  and  grudging  affection,  had  been  forged  in  hours  of  pitched  battles  Her  worshipful  respect  for  my  father,  whom  she  called  &quot;the  Rev,&quot;  was  only  exceeded  by  her  pride-the  malice-  tinged  pride  of  an  omniscient  family  servant-in  her  &quot;white  children,&quot;  to  whom  she  often  unflatteringly  com-  pared  Matthew  and  me.  It  was  easy  to  see  why  my  mother  and  her  circle  of  fashionable  matrons  described  Bessie  Gray  as  &quot;archaic'-you  had  only  to  look  at  her  black  straw  hat  attached  with  three  enormous  old-fashioned  pins  to  her  knot  of  frizzy  white  hair.  Her  lean  brown-skinned  face  was  dominated  by  a  hawk  nose  inherited  from  some  Indian  ancestor  and  punc-  tuated  by  an  enormous  black  mole;  her  eyes  were  small,  shrewd,  and  baleful.  She  talked  in  ways  that  were  already  passing  into  history  and  parody,  and  she  wore  a  thick  orange  face  powder  that  smelled  like  dead  leaves.  I  leaned  against  her  spare  bosom  and  watched  the  other  children  clus-  tered  near  the  pool,  their  bonnets  and  hair  ribbons  and  round  heads  outlined  in  the  dim  light.  For  a  minute  it  was  51  very  still.  Somewhere  in  the  hot,  dark-  ened  church  a  baby  gave  a  fretful  mur-  mur;  from  outside  came  the  sound  of  cars  passing  in  the  street.  The  candi-  dates  for  baptism,  looking  stiff  and  self-conscious,  stood  lined  up  on  the  short  stairway  leading  to  the  pool.  Sue  Anne  Ivory  fiddled  with  her  hair  rib-  bon,  and  then  put  her  fingers  in  her  mouth,  Daddy  spoke  the  opening  phrases  of  the  ceremony:  &quot;In  the  Baptist  Church,  we  do  not  baptize  infants,  but  believe  that  a  person  must  choose  salvation  for  himself.&quot;  I  didn't  listen  to  the  words;  what  I  noticed  was  the  music  of  the  whole-  how  thebig  voice  darkened  and  light-  ened  in  tone,  and  how  the  grand  ar-  chitecture  of  the  Biblical  sentences  en-  nobled  the  voice.  The  story,  of  course,  was  about  Jesus,  and  John  the  Baptist.  One  phrase  struck  me  newly  each  time:  &quot;This  is  my  beloved  son,  in  whom  I  am  well  pleased!&quot;  Daddy  sang  out  those  words  in  a  clear,  triumphant  voice,  and  the  choir  echoed  him.  Ever     over  bedtimes  and  proper  behavior.  " b"since  I  could  understand  it,  this  phrase  had  made  me  feel  melancholy;  it  seemed  to  expose  a  hardknot  of  dis-  obedience  that  had  always  lain  within  me.  When  I  heard  it,  I  thought  envi-  ously  of  Matthew,  for  whom  life  al-  ways  seemed  to  be  a  sedate  and  ordered  affair:  he,  not  I,  was  a  child  in  whom  a  father  could  be  well  pleased.  ADDy  beckoned  to  Billy  Price,  the  first  baptismalcandidate  in  line,  and  Billy,  ungainly  in  his  white  robe,  descended  the  flight  of  steps  into  the  pool.  In  soft,  slow  voices,  the  choir  began  to  sing:  Wade  in  the  water,  Wade  in  the  water,  children,  Wade  in  the  water,  children.  God  gonna  trouble  The  water.  In  spite  of  Jordan  Grimes'  efforts,  the  choir  swayed  like  a  gospel  chorus  as  it  sang  this  spiritual;  the  result  was  to  addan  eerie  jazz  beat  to  the  minor  chords.  The  music  gave  me  gooseflesh.  Daddy  had  told  me  that  this  was  the  same  song  that  the  slaves  had  sung  long  ago  in  the  [REDACTED],  when  they  gathered  to  be  baptized  in  rivers  and  streams.  Although  I  cared  little  about  history,  and  found  it  hard  to  picture  the  slaves  as  being  any  ancestors  of  mine,  I  could  clearly  imagine  them  coming  together  beside  a  broad  muddy  river  that  wound  away  between  trees  drooping  with  strange  vegetation.  They  walked  silently  in  lines,  their  faces  very  black  against  their  white  clothes,  leading  their  children;  the  whole  scene  was  bathed  in  the  heavy  golden  light  that  meant  age  and  so-  lemnity,  the  same  light  that  seemed  to  weigh  down  the  Israelites  in  illus-  trated  volumes  of  Bible  stories,  and  that  shone  now  from  the  baptismal  pool,  giving  the  ceremony  the  air  of  a  spectacle  staged  in  a  dream.  All  attention  in  the  darkened  audi-  torium  was  now  focussed  on  the  pool,  where  between  the  red  curtains  my  father  stood  holding  Billy  Price  by  the  shoulders.  Daddy  stared  into  Billy's  face,  and  the  boy  stared  back,  his  lips  set  and  trembling.  &quot;And  now,  by  the  power  invested  in  me,&quot;  said  Daddy,  &quot;I  baptize  you  in  the  name  of  the  Father,  the  Son,  and  the  Holy  Ghost.&quot;  As  he  pronounced  these  words,  he  conveyed  a  tenderness  as  efficient  and  impersonal  as  a  physician's  professional  manner;  beneath  it,  however,  I  could  see  a  strong  private  gladness,  the  same  de-  lightthat  transformed  the  contours  of  his  face  when  he  preached  a  sermon.  He  paused  to  flick  a  drop  of  water  off  his  forehead,  and  then,  with  a  single  smooth,  powerful  motion  of  his  arms,  he  laid  Billy  Price  back  into  the  water  as  if  he  were  putting  an  infant  to  bed.  I  caught  my  breath  as  the  boy  went  backward.  When  he  came  up,  sput-  tering,  two  churchmothers  helped  him  out  of  the  pool  and  through  a  doorway  into  a  room  where  he  would  be  dried  and  dressed.  Daddy  shook  the  water  from  his  hands  and  gave  a  slight  smile  as  another  child  entered  the  pool.  One  by  one,  the  baptismal  candi-  dates  descended  the  stairs.  Sue  Anne  Ivory  began  to  cry,  andhad  to  be  comforted.  Caroline  Piggee  blushed  and  looked  up  at  my  father  with  such  a  coquettish  air  that  I  jealously  won-  dered  how  he  could  stand  it.  After  a  few  baptisms,  my  attention  wandered,  and  I  began  to  gnaw  the  edge  of  my  thumb  and  to  peer  at  the  pale  faces  of  the  visiting  college  students.  Then  I  thought  about  Matthew,  who  had  punched  me  in  the  arm  that  morning  andhad  shouted,  &quot;No  punchbacks!&quot;  I  also  thought  about  a  collection  of  horse  chestnuts  I  meant  to  assemble  in  the  fall,  and  about  two  books,  one  whose  subject  was  adults  and  divorces,  and  another,  by  E.  Nesbit,  that  contin-  ued  the  adventures  of  the  Bastable  children.  After  Wendell  Cullen  had  left  the  water  (glancing  uneasily  back  at  the  wet  robe  trailing  behind  him),  Daddy  stood  alone  among  the  curtains  and  the  mirrors.  The  moving  reflections  from  the  pool  made  the  stuffed  dove  hanging  over  him  seem  to  flutter  on  its  string.  &quot;Dear  [REDACTED];  said  Daddy,  as  Jordan  Grimes  struck  a  chord.  &quot;Bless  these  children  who  have  chosen  to  be  baptized  in  accordance  with  your  teaching,  and  who  have  been  reborn  to  carry  out  your  work.  In  each  of  them,  surely,  you  are  well  pleased.&quot;  He  paused,  staring  out  into  the  darkened  auditorium.  &quot;And  if  there  is  anyone  out  there-man,  woman,  child-who  wishes  to  accept  Christ  today,  and  to  be  baptized  next  month,  let  him  come  forward  now.&quot;  He  glanced  around  ea-  gerly.  &quot;Oh,  do  come  forward  and  give  Christ  your  heart  and  give  me  your  hand!&quot;  Just  then,  Aunt  Bessie  gave  me  a  little  shake  and  whispered  sharply,  &quot;Go  on  up  and  accept  Jesus!&quot;  I  stiffened,  and  dug  my  bitten  fin-  gernails  into  my  palms.  The  last  clash  of  wills  I  had  had  with  Aunt  Bessie  had  been  when  she,  crazily  set  in  her  old  43616e616461ern  attitudes,  had  tried  to  make  me  wear  an  enormous  straw  hat,  as  her  &quot;white  children&quot;  did,  when  I  played  outside  in  the  sun;  the  old  woman  had  driven  me  to  madness,  and  I  had  ended  up  spanked  and  sullen,  crouching  moodily  under  the  dining-  room  table.  But  this  was  different,  out-  rageous,  none  of  her  business.  I  shook  my  head  violently,  and  she  took  ad-  vantage  of  the  darkness  in  the  church  to  seize  both  of  my  shoulders  and  jounce  me  with  considerable  rough-  ness,  whispering,  &quot;Now,  listen,  young  lady!  Your  daddy  up  there  is  calling  you  to  Christ.  Your  big  brother  has  already  given  his  soul  to  the  Lord.  Now  Daddy  wants  his  little  girl  to  step  forward.&quot;  &quot;No  he  doesn't.&quot;  I  glanced  at  the  baptismal  pool,  where  my  father  was  clasping  the  hand  of  a  strange  man  who  had  come  up  to  him.  I  hoped  that  this  would  distract  Aunt  Bessie,  but  she  was  tireless.  &quot;Your  mama  and  your  Aunt  Lily  and  your  Aunt  May  all  want  you  to  answer  the  call.  You're  hurting  them  when  you  say  no  to  Jesus.&quot;  &quot;No  I'm  not!&quot;  I  spoke  out  loud,  and  I  saw  the  people  nearby  turn  to  look  at  me.  At  the  sound  of  my  voice,  Daddy,  who  was  a  few  yards  away,  faltered  for  a  minute  in  what  he  was  saying  and  glanced  over  in  my  direction.  Just  then,  Aunt  Bessie  seemed  to  lose  her  head.  She  stood  up,  pulling  me  with  her,  and  while  I  was  still  frozen  in  a  dreadful  paralysis  tried  to  drag  me  down  the  aisle  toward  my  father.  The  two  of  us  began  a  brief  struggle  that  could  not  have  lasted  more  than  a  few  seconds  but  that  seemed  an  endless  mortal  conflict-my  slippery  patent-  leather  shoes  braced  against  the  floor,  my  straw  hat  sliding  cockeyed  and  lodging  against  one  ear,  my  right  arm  twisting  and  twisting  in  the  iron  circle  " b"of  the  old  woman's  grip,  my  nostrils  full  of  the  dead-leaf  smell  of  her  pow-  der  and  black  skirts.  In  an  instant,  I  had  wrenched  my  arm  free  and  darted  up  the  aisle  toward  Mama,  my  aunts,  and  Matthew.  As  I  slipped  past  the  darkened  pews,  I  imagined  that  I  could  feel  eyes  on  me  and  hear  whis-  pers.  &quot;What'd  you  do,  dummy?&quot;  whispered  Matthew,  tugging  on  my  sash  as  I  reached  our  pew,  but  I  pushed  past  him  without  answering.  Although  it  was  hot  in  the  church,  my  teeth  were  chattering:  it  was  the  first  time  I  had  won  a  battle  with  a  grown-  up,  and  the  earth  seemed  to  be  about  to  cave  in  beneath  me.  I  squeezed  in  be-  tween  Mama  and  Aunt  Lily  just  as  the  lights  came  back  on  in  the  church.  In  the  baptismal  pool,  Daddy  raised  his  arms  for  the  last  time.  &quot;The  Lord  bless  you  and  keep  you,&quot;  came  his  big  voice.  &quot;The  Lord  be  gracious  unto  you,  and  give  you  peace.&quot;  HAT  was  curious  was  how  uncannily  subdued  my  par-  ents  were  when  they  heard  of  my  skirmish  with  Aunt  Bessie.  Normally,  they  were  swift  to  punish  Matthew  and  me  for  misbehavior  in  church  and  breaches  in  politeness  toward  adults;  this  episode  combined  the  two,  and  smacked  of  sacrilege  besides.  Yet  once  I  had  made  an  unwilling  apology  to  the  old  woman  (as  I  kissed  her  she  shot  me  such  a  vengeful  look  that  I  realized  that  forever  after  it  was  to  be  war  to  the  death  between  the  two  of  us),  I  was  permitted,  after  we  had  driven  home,  to  climb  up  into  the  green  shade  of  the  big  maple  tree.  In  those  days,  more  than  now,  I  fell  away  into  a  remote  dimension  whenever  I  opened  a  book;  that  afternoon,  as  I  sat  with  rings  of  sunlight  and  shadow  moving  over  my  arms  and  legs,  and  winged  yellow  seeds  plopping  down  onto  the  pages  of  &quot;The  Story  of  the  Treasure  Seekers,&quot;  I  felt  a  vague  un-  easiness-a  sense  of  having  misplaced  something,  of  being  myself  misplaced.  I  was  holding  myself  quite  aloof  from  considering  what  had  happened,  as  I  did  with  most  drastic  events,  but  through  the  adventures  of  the  Bast-  ables  I  kept  remembering  the  way  my  father  had  looked  when  he'd  heard  what  happened.  He  had  looked  not  severe  or  angry  but  merely  puzzled,  and  he  had  regarded  me  with  the  same  puzzled  expression,  as  if  he'd  justdis-  covered  that  I  existed  and  didn't  know  what  to  do  with  me.  &quot;What  happened,  Sairy?&quot;&quot;  he  asked,  using  an  old  baby nickname,  and  I  said,  &quot;I  didn't  want  to  go  up  there.&quot;  I  hadn't  cried  at  all,  and  that  was  another  curious  thing.  After  that  Sunday,  all  pressure  on  me  to  accept  baptism  ceased.  I  turned  twelve,  fifteen,  then  eighteen  without  being  baptized,  a  fact  that  scandalized  some  of  the  congregation,  but  my  par-  ents,  who  openly  discussed  everything  else,  never  said  a  word  to  me.  The  issue,  and  the  episode  that  had  illumi-  nated  it,  was  surrounded  by  a  clear  ring  of  silence  that,  for  our  garru-  lous  family,  was  something  close  to  supernatural.  I  continued  to  go  to  New  African-in  fact,  continued  long-  er  than  Matthew,  who  dropped  out  abruptly  after  his  freshman  year  in  college.  The  ambiguousness  in  my  re-  lations  with  the  old  church  gave  me  at  times  an  inflated  sense  of  privilege  (I  saw  myself  as  a  romantically  isolated  religious  heroine,  a  sort  of  self-made    Baptist  martyr)  and  at  othertimes  a  feeling  of  loss  that  I  was  too  proud  ever  to  acknowledge.  I  never  went  up  to  take  my  father's  hand,  and  he  never  commented  upon  this  fact  to  me.  It  was  an  odd  pact,  one  that  I  could  never  consider  in  the  light  of  day.  It  was  only  much  later,  after  he  died,  and  I  left  New  African  forever,  that  I  began  to  examine  the  peculiar  gift  of  freedom  my  father-whose  entire  soul  was  in  the  church,  and  inhis  exuberant,  bewitching  tongue-had  granted  me  through  his  silence. "