 b"JUNE 25,  1933  P  I  vibrations  have  relayed  the  electrokinetic  force  of  my  will  into  the  minds  of  others!  Today,  E.  led  me  out  into  the  dooryard  and  presented  me  with  a  cow!  Female,  classically  Rubenesque,  black-and-white  camouflage!  Tomor-  row,  like  a  cowboy,  I  will  pat  her  head!  Junz  27,  1933  E.  saysa  Brown  Swiss  would  match  my  shirt,  but  I  remind  her  that  the  Holstein  is  the  more  German  animal.  Only  the  left-handed  and  others  in  the  grip  of  the  world  riboflavin  trust,  which  I  will  smash,  would  dare  argue  to  the  contrary!  Auoust  16,  1933  I  will  not  refuse  Destiny's  mandate!  The  cow  has  had  a  cub  today,  the  two-hundredth  anniversary  of  Freder-  ick  the  Great's  marriage  to  Elizabeth  of  Brunswick-Bevern!  Fuhrer,  archi-  tect,  artist,  dairyman!  Novemser  12,  1934  I  confer  with  my  milking  instructor,  who  insists  that  I  must  have  been  a  milkman  in  my  previous  incarnation,  so  quickly  have  I  mastered  the  tricky  Friesian  Squeeze!  No  sign  of  Himmler  (22:30  hrs.)!  He  should  have  finished  cleaning  the  stalls  by  now.  Aprit  17,  1935  Goring  egain  lets  his  straw  make  disgusting  noises  as  he  finishes  up  his  milkshake.  I  am  forced  to  decree  that  hereafter  only  E.  and  I  are  to  be  served  milkshakes.  E.  begs  me  to  hear  her  ukulele  recital  of  highlights  from  &quot;Die  Walkure,&quot;  but  I  am  in  no  mood  for  culture  festivals!  Auoust  2,  1937  Bormann  brings  me  aBelted  Gallo-  way  heifer  to  inspect.  It  steps  on  von  Rundstedt's  nice  shiny  boots!  Ha  ha!  Frsruary  6,  1938  That  Goebbels  is  a  didactic  little  pettifogger  and  an  advertising  man!  He  wastes  anhour  of  my  time  tonight  attempting  to  convince  me  that  cow-  boys  should  correctly  be  called  horse-  boys.  But  he  has  his  uses.  Tonight  he  showed  me  a  film.  The  Adolf  Hitler  Bovine  Battalion  has  trained  its  entire  crack  herd  to  wag  their  tails  in  unison  forty-eight  times  on  command,  in  honor  of  my  age!  I  insisted  that  Goeb-  bels  run  this  stirring  tribute  several  times,  once  backward.  E.  claims  that  my  eyes  were  brimming.  This  I  will  not  deny!  SerremsEr  1,  1939  Busy  day.  Nevertheless  showed  Speer  my  sketches  of  an  underground  dairy,  which  future  difficulties  may  make  advisable.  He  must  design  the  largest  and  grandest  dairy  in  the  entire  history  of  the  human  and  bovine  races,  not  omitting  a  Rotunda  of  the  Ger-  manic  Bovines,  large  enough  that  the  Great  Pyramid  of  Cheops  could  easily  fit  beneath  its  ceiling!  I  shall  call  it  &quot;Lactia.&quot;  It  will  last  a  thousand  years.  Who  can  tell?  With  good  manage-  ment,  perhaps  even  longer!  Octroser  23,  1939  My  first  public  milking  attempt  is  sabotaged  by  Ribbentrop's  coughing  fit,  which  startles  the  cow,  Irmtraud,  who  is  high-strung.  Hess  tries  making  ajoke  of  this,  knowing  well  how  I  de-  spise  jokes-and  jokesters  who  make  jokes!  He  should  clip  his  eyebrows.  Ribbentrop  is  a  dandified  weasel  who  incessantly  puffs  on  English  cigarettes,  and  never  gives  me  the  little  cards  in-  side  with  pictures  of  ocean  liners  and  aircraft  and  trains.  Hess  leaps  to  light  Ribbentrop's  infernal  smokes.  So!  The  two  are  in  cahoots  after  all!  Octroser  24,  1939  Such  incidents  as  yesterday's  would  be  grist  for  the  mills  of  that  hack  Sunday  painter  Churchill  and  oth-     er  smart-aleck  cads.  I  have  ordered  that  my  dairy  interests  and  activities  must  henceforth  be  an  official  secret  of  the  Reich.  E.  must  tell  the  locals  that  she  is  Frau  Schicklgruber,  a  lost  aviatrix.  Marce  4,  1940  The  chubby  hat  collector  Goring  swears  never  to  use  a  straw  if  he  is  again  permitted  to  drink  milkshakes.  E.  says  his  hands  feel  like  blancmange  and  that  he  would  make  a  poor  dairy-  man.  She  says  I  have  fine  hands  for  milking,  as  the  perspiration  makes  an  ideal  lubricant.  I  believe  she  is  correct  in  this!  Junz  30,  1940  Hess  bursts  in  with  a  look  of  pure  triumph,  swiftly  erased.  When  I  de-  manded  the  Jerseys  and  Guernseys,  I  meant  the  animals!  Aucust  21,  1940  Old  P\xc3\xa9tain,  along  with  Laval,  visits.  The  French  know  nothing  of  cows  or  milking.  I  explained  to  Schacht  afterward  that  great  dairy  undertakings  have  been  historically  alien  in  all  cultures  with  vowel-  dominant  languages.  He  was  fasci-  nated.  Marce  12,  1941  The  fatheaded  scientific  master-  minds  plead  that  my  design  for  a  rock-  et-powered  milking  machine  is  &quot;im-  practical.&quot;  That  is  what  they  think,  is  it?'  Is  that  what  they  think  I  think  &quot;Ha  ha.&quot;  May  15,  1941  Is  the  Aberdeen  a  beef  cow  or  a  milk  cow?  Tonight  at  supper  (cheese,  but-  termilk,  yogurt),  Rosenberg  and  Funk  answered  yes.  Bormann  asked  which  I  wanted  it  to  be.  Only  Hess  offered  to  find  out.  Perhaps  I  have  misjudged  him;  a  chowderhead,  but  a  chowder-  headwith  initiative!  May  16,  1941  The  chowderhead  went  to  [REDACTED]!  January  21,  1942  A  pair  of  silk  milking  gloves  from  Mussolini.  Wrong  size!  How  I  wish  to  cuff  that  popinjay  fibber-deluxe  of  a  Duce  with  them!  Serremser  16,  1943  Doenitz  claimed  today  that  cottage  cheese  is  not  made  from  dairy  prod-  " b'ucts.  Raeder  disagreed  violently.  I  let  them  argue  it  out.  Novemser  8,  1944  E.  insists  the  cows  are  saying  &quot;moo,&quot;  not  &quot;boo.&quot;  I  have  ordered  re-  cordings  to  be  made  and  analyzed.  It  is  just  like  those  dumb  walking  milkbags  to  turn  on  one  the  moment  adversity  strikes!  They  bear  watching!!  January  11,  1945  Treacheries  afoot!  I  caught  the  en-  tire  herd  red-handed  today,  all  facing  in  the  same  direction,  toward  the  west  and  the  advancing  Allied  forces!  Bormann  failed  to  prove  to  my  satis-  faction  that  they  were  not  British  cat-  tle  parachuted  in.  I  left  him  with  orders  to  monitor  the  movements  of  Irmtraud,  the  walleyed  Holstein-or  her  double!  Frsruary  2,  1945  I  have  today  ordered  Lactia  to  be  converted  immediately  into  a  prac-  tice  rink  for  the  new  roller-skating  regiments  thatwill  soon  reverse  37     events-if  Speer  can  get  enough  ball  bearings!!!  Marcu  12,  1945  Up  all  night  designing  a  new  kind  of  cow.  Upon  it  depends  the  fu-  ture!  Aprit  27,  1945  Midget  cows  on  rocket-powered  roller  skates!  F  iring  concentrated  lac-  tic  acids!  Penetrating  tank  armor  from  a  range  of  ten  thousand  metres! '