 b"FOR  a  short  while,  one  year  dur-  Fing  my  summer  holidays,  I  thought  only  people  I  did  not  know  died.  During  the  time  I  thought  this,  we  were  living  far  out  on  Fort  Road,  on  the  island  of  Antigua.  We  had  only  two  neighbors,  Mistress  Maynard  and  her  husband.  That  sum-  mer,  we  had  a  pig  that  had  just  had  piglets;  some  guinea  fowl;  and  some  ducks  that  laid  enormous  eggs  that  my  mother  said  were  big  even  for  ducks.  I  hated  toeat  any  food  except  for  the  enormous  duck  eggs,  hard-boiled.  I  had  nothing  to  do  every  day  except  to  feed  the  birds  and  the  pig  in  the  morning  and  in  the  evening.  I  spoke  to  no  one  other  than  my  parents,  and  sometimes  to  Mistress  Maynard,  if  I  saw  her  when  I  went  to  pick  up  the  peelings  of  vegetables  which  my  mother  had  asked  her  to  save  for  the  pig,  which  was  just  the  thing  the  pig  really  liked.  From  our  yard,  I  could  see  the  cemetery.  I  did  not  know  it  was  the  cemetery  until  oneday  when  I  said  to  my  mother  that  sometimes  in  the  evening,  while  feeding  the  pig,  I  could  see  various  small,  sticklike  figures,  some  dressed  in  black,  some  dressed  in  white,  bobbing  up  and  down  in  the  distance.  I  noticed,  too,  that  sometimes  the  black  and  white  stick-  like  figures  appeared  in  the  morning.  My  mother  said  that  it  was  probably  a  child  being  buried,  since  children  were  always  buried  in  the  morning.  Until  then,  I  had  not  known  that  children  died.  I  was  afraid  of  the  dead,  as  was  everyone  I  knew.  We  were  afraid  of  the  dead  because  we  never  could  tell  when  they  might  show  up  again.  Sometimes  they  showed  up  in  a  dream,  but  that  wasn't  sobad,  because  they  usually  only  brought  a  warning,  and  in  any  case  you  wake  up  from  a  dream.  But  sometimes  they  would  show  up  standing  under  a  tree  justas  you  were  passing  by.  Then  they  might  follow  you  home,  and  even  though  they  might  not  be  able  to  come  into  your  house,  they  might  wait  for  you  and  follow  you  wherever  you  went;  in  that  case,  they  would  never  give  up  until  you  joined  them.  My  mother  knew  of  many  people  who  had  died  in  such  a  way.  My  mother  knew  of  many  people  who  had  died,  including  her  own  brother.  After  I  found  out  about  the  ceme-  tery,  I  would  stand  in  my  yard  and  wait  for  a  funeral  to  come.  Some  days,  there  were  no  funerals.  &quot;No  one  died,&quot;  I  would  say  to  my  mother.  Some  days,  just  as  I  was  about  to  give  up  and  go  inside,  I  would  see  the  small  specks  appear.  &quot;What  made  them  so  late?&quot;  I  would  ask  my  mother.  Proba-  bly  someone  couldn't  bear  to  see  the  coffin  lid  put  in  place,  and  so  as  a  favor  the  undertaker  might  let  things  goon  too  long,  she  said.  The  undertaker!  On  our  way  into  town,  we  would  pass  the  undertaker's  workshop.  Outside,  a  little  sign  read  &quot;Mr.  J.  A.  Barns  &amp;  Sons,  Unprrtarerrs  &amp;  CasinEt-  MAKERS.&quot;  I  could  always  tell  we  were  approaching  this  place,  because  of  the  smell  of  pitch  pine  and  varnish  in  the  air.  ATER,  we  moved  to  a  house  closer  to  town,  and  I  no  longer  had  a  view  of  the  cemetery.  Still  no  one  I  knew  had  died.  One  day,  a  girl  small-  er  than  I,  a  girl  whose  mother  was  a  friend  of  my  mother's,  died  in  my  mother's  arms.  I  did  not  know  this  girl  at  all,  though  I  may  have  got  a  glimpse  of  her  once  or  twice  as  I  passed  her  and  her  mother  coming  out  of  our  yard,  and  I  tried  to  remember  everything  I  had  heard  about  her.  Her  name  was  Nalda;  she  had  red  hair;  she  was  very  bony;  she  did  not  like  toeat  any  food.  In  fact,  she  liked  to  eat  mud,  and  her  mother  always  had  to  keep  a  strict  eye  on  her  to  prevent  her  from  doing  that.  Her  father  made  bricks,  and  her  mother  dressed  in  a  way  that  my  father  found  unbecoming.  I  heard  my  mother  describe  to  my  father  just  how  Nalda  had  died:  She  had  a  fever,  they  noticed  a  change  in  her  breathing,  so  they  called  a  car  and  were  rush-  ing  her  off  to  Dr.  Bailey  when,  just  as  they  were  crossing  over  a  bridge,  she  let  outa  long  sigh  and  went  limp.  Dr.  Bailey  pronounced  her  dead,  and  when  I  heard  that  I  was  so  glad  he  wasn't  my  doctor.  My  mother  asked  my  father  to  make  the  coffin  for  Nalda,  and  he  did,  carving  bunches  of  tiny  flowers  on  the  sides.  Nalda's  mother  wept  so  much  that  my  mother  had  to  take  care  of  everything,  and  since  children  were  never  prepared  by  undertakers,  my  mother  had  to  pre-  pare  the  little  girl  to  be  buried.  I  then  began  to  look  at  my  mother's  hands  differently.  They  had  stroked  the  dead  girl's  forehead;  they  had  bathed  and  dressed  her  and  laid  her  in  the  coffin  my  father  had  made.  My  mother  would  come  back  from  the  dead  girl's  house  smelling  of  bay  rum-a  scent  that  for  a  long  time  afterward  would  make  me  feel  ill.  For  a  while,  though  not  for  very  long,  I  could  not  bear  to  have  my  mother  caress  me  or  touch  my  food  or  help  me  with  my  bath.  I  espe-  cially  couldn't  bear  the  sight  of  her  hands  lying  still  in  her  lap.  At  school,  I  told  all  my  friends  about  this  death.  I  would  take  them  aside  individually,  so  I  could  repeat  the  details  over  and  over  again.  They  would  listen  to  me  with  their  mouths  open.  In  turn,  they  would  tell  me  of  someone  they  had  known  or  heard  of  who  had  died.  I  would  listen  with  my  mouth  open.  One  person  had  known  very  well  a  neighbor  who  had  gone  swimming  after  eating  a  big  lunch  at  a  picnic  and  drowned.  Someone  had  a  cousin  who  in  the  middle  of  something  one  day  just  fell  down  dead.  Someone  knew  a  boy  who  had  died  after  eating  some  poisonous  berries.  &quot;Fancy  that,&quot;  we  said  to  each  other.  I  LOVED  very  much-and  so  used  to  torment  until  she  cried-a  girl  named  Sonia.  She  was  smaller  than  I,  even  though  she  was  almost  two  years  older,  and  she  was  a  dunce-our  class  dunce.  I  would  try  to  get  to  school  early  and  give  her  my  homework,  so  that  she  could  copy  it,  and  in  class  I  would  pass  her  the  answers  to  sums.  My  friends  ignored  her,  and  whenever  I  mentioned  her  name  in  a  favorable  way  they  would  twist  up  their  lips  and  make  a  sound  to  show  their  disdain.  I  thought  her  beautiful  and  I  would  say  so.  She  had  long,  thick  black  hairthat  lay  down  flat  on  her  arms  and  legs.  And  then  running  down  the  nape  of  her  neck,  down  the  middle  of  her  back  for  asfaras  could  beseen  before  it  was  swallowed  up  by  her  school  uniform,  was  a  line  of  the  same  long,  thick  black  hair,  only  here  it  flared  out  as  if  a  small  breeze  had  come  and  parted  it.  At  recess,  I  would  buy  hera  sweet-  something  called  a  frozen  joy-with  money  I  had  stolen  from  my  mother's  purse,  and  then  we  wouldgo  and  sit  under  a  treein  our  schoolyard.  I  would  then  stare  and  stare  at  her,  narrowing  and  opening  wide  my  eyes  until  she  began  to  fidget  under  my  " b"gaze.  Then  I  would  pull  at  the  hair  on  her  arms  and  legs-gently  at  first,  and  then  aw-  fully  hard,  holding  it  up  taut  with  the  tips  of  my  fingers  until  she  cried  out.  For  a  few  weeks,  she  didn't  ap-  pear  in  school,  and  we  were  told  that  her  mother,  who  had  been  with  child,  had  died  suddenly.  I  couldn't  ever  again  bring  my-  self  to  speak  to  her,  even  though  we  spent  two  more  years  as  class-  mates.  She  seemed  such  a  shameful  thing,  a  girl  whose  mother  had  died  and  left  heralone  in  the  world.  Not  long  after  the  little  girl  died  in  my  mother's  armson  the  way  to  the  doctor,  Miss  Charlotte,  our  neigh-  bor  across  the  street,  collapsed  and  died  while  having  a  conver-  sation  with  my  mother.  If  my  mother  hadn't  caught  her,  she  would  have  fallen  to  the  ground.  When  I  came  home  from  school  that  day,  my  mother  said,  &quot;&quot;Miss  Charlotte  is  dead.&quot;  I  had  known  Miss  Charlotte  very  well,  and  I  tried  to  imagine  her  dead.  I  couldn't.  I  did  not  know  what  someone  looked  like  dead.  I  knew  what  Miss  Charlotte  looked  like  coming  from  market.  I  knew  what  she  looked  like  going  to  church.  I  knew  what  she  looked  like  when  she  told  her  dog  not  to  frighten  me  by  chasing  me  up  and  down  the  street.  Once,  when  Miss  Charlotte  was  sick,  my  mother  asked  me  to  take  her  a  bowl  with  some  food,  so  I  saw  her  lying  in  her  bed  in  her  nightgown.  Miss  Charlotte  was  buried  in  a  coffin  my  father  did  not  make,  and  I  was  not  allowed  to  go  to  the  funeral.  At  school,  almost  everyone  I  knew  had  seen  a  dead  person,  and  not  a  spirit  of  a  dead  person  buta  real  dead  person.  The  girl  who  sat  at  the  desk  next  to  mine  suddenly  stopped  sucking  her  thumb  because  her  mother  had  washed  it  in  water  in  which  a  dead  person  had  been  given  a  bath.  I  told  her  that  her  mother  must  have  been  playing  a  trick  on  her,that  I  was  sure  the  water  was  just  plain  water,  since  it  was  just  the  she  said  that  she  could  see  they  weren't  alike  at  all.  I  BEGAN  to  go  to  funerals.  I  didn't  actually  go  to  the  funerals  as  an  official  mourner,  since  I  didn't  know  any  of  the  people  who  had  died  and  I  was  going  without  my  parents'  per-  mission.  I  visited  the  funeral  parlors  or  the  drawing  roomswhere  the  dead  were  laid  out  for  viewing  by  the  mourners.  When  I  heard  the  church  bell  toll  in  the  way  it  tolled  when  someone  had  died,  I  would  trytofind  out  who  had  died  and  where  the  fu-  neral  was  to  be--home  or  funeral  par-  lor.  The  funeral  parlor  was  in  much  the  same  direction  as  my  route  home,  but  sometimes  to  get  to  someone's  house  I  would  have  to  go  in  the  oppo-  site  direction  of  my  way  home.  At  first,  I  didn't  go  in;  I  would  just  stand  outside  and  watch  the  people  come  and  go,  hear  the  close  relatives  and  friends  let  out  incredible  loud  wails  and  moans,  and  then  watch  the  procession  march  off  to  church.  But  then  I  began  to  go  in  and  take  a  look.  The  first  time  I  actually  saw  a  dead  person,  I  didn't  know  what  to  think.  Since  it  wasn't  someone  I  knew,  I  couldn't  make  a  comparison.  I  had  never  seen  the  per-  son  laugh  or  smile  or  frown  or  shoo  a  chicken  out  of  a  garden.  So  I  looked  and  looked  for  as  long  as  I  could  without  letting  anyone  know  I  was  just  there  out  of  curiosity.  One  day,  a  girl  my  own  age  died.  I  did  not  know  her  name  or  anything  personal  about  her  except  that  she  was  my  own  age  and  that  she  had  a  hump-  back.  She  attended  another  school,  and  on  the  day  of  her  funeral  her  whole  school  got  the  day  off.  At  my  school,  it  was  all  we  could  talk  about:  &quot;Did  you  know  the  humpbacked  girl?&quot;  I  re-  membered  once  standing  behind  her  in  a  lineto  take  out  books  at  the  library;  then  I  saw  a  fly  land  on  the  collar  of  her  uniform  and  walk  up  and  down  as  the  collar  lay  flat  on  her  hump.  On  hearing  that  she  was  dead,  I  wished  I  had  tapped  the  hump  to  see  ifit  was  hollow.  I  also  remembered  that  her  hair  was  parted  into  four  plaits  and  that  the  parts  were  crooked.  &quot;She  must  have  combed  her  hair  herself,&quot;  I  said.  At  last,  though,  someone  I  knew  was  dead.  The  day  of  her  funeral,  I  bolted  from  school  as  soon  as  we  finished  the  last  amen  of  our  evening  prayers,  and  I  made  my  way  to  the  funeral  home.  When  I  got  there,  the  whole  street  was  full  of  girls  from  her  school,  all  in  their  white  dress  uniforms.  It  was  a  big  crowd  of  them,  and  they  were  just  " b" milling  around,  talking  to  each  other  quietly  and  looking  veryimportant.  I  didn't  have  time  to  stop  and  really  envy  them;  I  made  my  way  to  the  door  and  entered  the  funeral  parlor.  There  she  was.  She  was  lying  in  the  regular  pitch-pine,  varnished  coffin,  on  a  bed  of  mauve-and-white  lilacs.  She  wore  a  white  dress,  and  it  may  have  come  all  the  way  down  to  her  ankles,  but  I  didn't  have  time  to  look  carefully.  It  was  her  face  that  I  wanted  to  see.  I  remembered  how  she  had  looked  the  day  in  the  library.  Her  face  was  just  a  plain  face.  She  had  black  eyes,  flat  nostrils,  broad  lips.  Lying  there  dead,  she  looked  just  the  same,  except  her  eyes  were  closed  and  she  was  so  still.  I  once  had  heard  someone  say  about  another  dead  person  that  it  was  as  if  the  dead  person  were  asleep.  But  I  had  seena  person  asleep,  and  this  girl  did  not  look  asleep.  My  par-  ents  had  just  bought  me  a  View-Mas-  ter.  The  View-Master  came  with  pic-  tures  of  the  pyramids,  the  Taj  Mahal,  43616e616461Everest,  and  scenes  of  the  Ama-  zon  River.  When  the  View-Master  worked  properly,  all  the  scenes  looked  as  if  they  were  alive,  as  if  we  could  just  step  into  the  View-Master  and  sail  down  the  Amazon  River  or  stand  at  the  foot  of  the  pyramids.  When  the  View-Master  didn't  work  properly,  it  was  as  if  we  were  just  looking  at  an  ordinary,  colorful  picture.  When  I  looked  atthis  girl,  it  was  as  if  the  View-Master  wasn't  working  proper-  ly.  I  stared  at  her  a  long  time-long  enough  sothat  I  caused  the  line  of  people  waiting  to  stop  by  the  coffin  to  grow  long  and  on  the  verge  of  impatience.  Of  course,  asI  stared  I  kept  my  fingers  curled  up  tight  against  my  palms,  because  I  didn't  want  to  make  a  mistake  and  point  and  then  have  them  rot  and  drop  off  right  there.  I  then  went  and  sat  among  the  mourn-  ers.  Her  family  smiled  at  me,  thinking,  I  am  sure,  that  I  was  aschool  friend,  even  though  I  wore  the  uniform  of  an-  other  school.  We  sang  a  hymn-&quot;All  Things  Bright  and  Beautiful&quot;-and  her  mother  said  it  was  the  first  hymn  the  humpbacked  girl  had  learned  to  sing  by  heart.  I  walked  home.  By  then,  I  was  very  late  getting  home  from  school,  but  I  was  too  excited  to  worry  about  it.  I  won-  dered  if  oneday  while  going  some-  where  alone  I  would  see  the  hump-  backed  girl  standing  under  a  tree,  and  if  she  would  tryto  get  me  to  go  for  a  swim  or  eat  a  piece  of  fruit,  and  the  next  thing  my  mother  would  know  she  would  be  asking  my  father  to  make  a  coffin  for  me.  Of  course,  he  would  be  so  overcome  with  grief  he  wouldn't  be  able  to  do  it  and  would  have  to  ask  Mr.  Oatie  to  do  it,  and  he  just  hated  to  ask  Mr.  Oatie  to  do  him  a  favor,  because,  asI  heard  him  tell  my mother,  Mr.  Oatie  was  such  a  leech  he  made  you  pay  for  everything.  When  I  got  home,  my  mother  asked  me  for  the  fish  I  was  to  have  picked  up  from  Mr.  Earl,  our  fisherman,  on  the  way  home  from  school.  But  in  my  excitement  I  had  completely  forgotten.  Trying  to  think  quickly,  I  said  that  when  I  got  to  the  market  Mr.  Earl  told  me  that  theyhadn't  gone  to  sea  that  day,  because  the  sea  was  too  rough.  &quot;Oh?&quot;  said  my  mother,  and  uncovered  a  pan  in  which  were  lying,  flat  on  their  sides  and  covered  with  lemon  juice  and  butter  and  onions,  three  fish:  an  angelfish  for  my  father,  a  kanya  fish  for  my  mother,  and  a  lady-  fish  for  me-the  special  kind  of  fish  each  of  us  liked.  While  I  was  at  the  funeral  parlor,  Mr.  Earl  had  got  tired  of  waiting  for  me  and  had  brought  the  fish  to  our  house  himself.  That  night,  as  a  punishment,  Iate  my  supper  out-  side,  alone,  under  the  breadfruit  tree,  and  my  mother  said  that  she  would  not  be  kissing  me  good  night  later,  but  when  I  climbed  into  bed  she  came  and  kissed  me  anyway. "