 b"ROSA  LUBLIN,  a  madwoman  and  a  scavenger,  gave  up  her  store  -she  smashed  it  up  herself-  and  moved  to  [REDACTED].  It  was  a  mad  thing  to  do.  In  [REDACTED]  she  became  a  dependent.  Her  niece  in  [REDACTED]  sent  her  money  and  she  lived  among  the  elderly,  in  a  dark  hole,  a  single  room  in  a  &quot;hotel.&quot;  There  was  an  an-  cient  dresser-top  refrigerator  and  a  one-burner  stove.  Over  in  a  corner  a  round  oak  table  brooded  on  its  heavy  pedestal,  but  it  was  only  for  drinking  tea.  Her  meals  she  had  elsewhere,  in  bed  or  standing  at  the  sink-some-  times  toast  with  a  bit  of  sour  cream  and  half  a  sardine,  or  a  small  can  of  peas  heated  in  a  Pyrex  mug.  Instead  of  maid  service  there  was  a  dumbwaiter  on  ashrieking  pulley.  On  Tuesdays  and  Fridays  it  swallowed  her  meager  bags  of  garbage.  Squads  of  dying  flies  blackened  the  rope.  The  sheets  on  her  bed  were  just  as  black-it  was  a  five-  block  walk  to  the  laundromat.  The  streets  were  a  furnace,  the  sun  an  exe-  cutioner.  Every  day  without  fail  it  blazed  and  blazed,so  she  stayed  in  her  room  and  ate  two  bites  of  a  hard-  boiled  egg  in  bed,  with  a  writing  board  on  her  knees;  she  had  lately  taken  to  composing  letters.  She  wrote  sometimes  in  Polish  and  sometimes  in  English,  but  her  niece  had  forgotten  Polish;  most  of  the  time  Rosa  wrote  to  Stella  in  English.  Her  English  was  crude.  To  her  daugh-  ter  Magda  she  wrote  in  the  most  excellent  literary  Polish.  She  wrote  on  the  brittle  sheets  of  abandoned  stationery  that  inex-  plicably  turned  up  in  the  cubbyholes  ofa blistered  old  desk  in  the  lobby.  Or  she  would  ask  the  Cuban  girl  in  the  reception-  ist's  cage  for  a  piece  of  blank  billing  paper.  Now  and  then  she  would  find  a  clean  en-  velope  in  the  lobby  bin;  she  would  meticulously  rip  its  seams  and  lay  it  out  flat:  it  made  a  fine  white  square,  the  fresh  face  of  a  new  letter.  The  room  was  lit-  tered  with  these  let-  ters.  It  was  hard  to  get  es  them  mailed  -the  post  office  was  a  block  farther  off  than  the  laundromat,  and  the  hotel  lobby's  stamp  machine  had  been  marked  &quot;Out  or  OrpER&quot;  for  years.  There  was  an  oval  tin  of  sardines  left  open  on  the  sink  counter  since  yesterday.  Already  it  smelled  vomitous.  She  felt  she  was  in  hell.  &quot;Golden  and  beautiful  Stella,&quot;  she  wrote  to  her  niece.  &quot;Where  I  put  myself  is  in  hell.  Once  I  thought  the  worst  was  the  worst,  after  that  nothing  could  be  theworst.  But  now  I  see,  even  after  the  worst  there's  still  more.&quot;  Or  she  wrote:  &quot;Stella,  my  angel,  my  dear  one,  a  devil  climbs  into  youand  ties  up  your  soul  and  you  don't  even  know  it.&quot;  To  Magda  she  wrote:  &quot;You  have  grown  into  a  lioness.  You  are  tawny  and  you  stretch  apart  your  furry  toes  in  all  their  power.  Whoever  steals  you  steals  her  own  death.&quot;  Stella  had  eyes  like  a  small  girl's,  like  a  doll's.  Round,  not  big  but  pretty,  bright  skin  underneath,  fine  pure  skin  above,tender  eyebrows  like  rainbows,  and  lashes  as  rich  as  embroidery.  She  had  the  face  of  a  little  bride.  You  could  not  believe  from  all  this  beauty,  these  doll's  eyes,  these  buttercup  lips,  these  baby's  cheeks,  you  could  not  be-  lieve  in  what  harmless  containers  the  bloodsucker  comes.  Sometimes  Rosa  had  cannibal  dreams  about  Stella:  she  was  boiling   her  tongue,  her  ears,  her  right  hand,  such  a  fat  hand  with  plump  fingers,  each  nail  tended  and  rosy,  and  so  many  rings,  not  modern  rings  but  old-fash-  ioned  junkshop  rings.  Stella  liked  ev-  erything  from  Rosa's  junkshop,  every-  thing  used,  old,  lacy  with  other  peo-  ple's  history.  To  pacify  Stella,  Rosa  called  her  Dear  One,  Lovely,  Beauti-  ful;  she  called  her  Angel;  she  called  her  all  these  things  for  the  sake  of  peace,  but  in  reality  Stella  was  cold.  She  had  no  heart.  Stella,  already  near-  ly  fifty  years  old,  the  Angel  of  Death.  The  bed  was  black,  as  black  as  Stella's  will.  Aftera  while  Rosa  had  no  choice,  she  took  a  bundle  of  laundry  in  a  shopping  cart  and  walked  to  the  laundromat.  Though  it  was  only  ten  in  the  morning,  the  sun  was  killing.  [REDACTED],  why  [REDACTED]?  Because  here  they  were  shells  like  herself,  already  fried  from  the  sun.  All  the  same  she  had  nothing  in  common  with  them.  Old  ghosts,  old  socialists:  idealists.  The  Human  Race  was  all  they  cared  for.  Retired  workers,  they  went  to  lec-  tures,  they  frequented  the  damp  and  shadowy  little  branch  library.  She  saw  them  walking  with  Tolstoy  under  their  arms,  with  Dostoevski.  They  knew  good  material.  Whatever  you  wore  they  would  feel  between  their  fingers  and  give  a  name  to:  faille,  cor-  duroy,  shantung,  jersey,  worsted,  ve-  lours,  cr\xc3\xa9pe.  She  heard  them  speak  of  bias,  grosgrain,  the  &quot;season,&quot;  the  &quot;length.&quot;  Yellow  they  called  mustard.  What  was  pink  to  ev-  eryone  elseto  them  was  sunset;  orange  was  tangerine;  red  was  hot  tomato.  They  were  from  the  [REDACTED],  from  [REDACTED],  lost  neigh-  borhoods,  burned  out.  A  few  werefrom  West  End  [REDACTED].  Once  she  met  a  former  vegeta-  ble-store  owner  from  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED];  his  store  was  on  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  his  residence  not  far,  on  West  Seven-  tieth  Street,  of  Cen-  tral  Park.  Even  in  the  perpetual  garden  of  [REDACTED],  he  reminisced  about  his  flowery  green  heads  of  romaine  let-  tuce,  his  glowing  straw-  berries,  his  sleek  avo-  cados.  It  seemed  to  Rosa  [REDACTED]  that  the  whole  " b"peninsula  of  [REDACTED]  was  weighted  down  with  regret.  Everyone  had  left  behind  a  real  life.  Here  they  had  nothing.  They  were  all  scarecrows,  blown  about  under  the  murdering  sunball  with  empty  rib  cages.  N  the  laundromat  she  sat  on  a  cracked  wooden  bench  and  watched  the  round  porthole  of  the  wash-  ing  machine.  Inside,  the  surf  of  detergent  bubbles  frothed  and  slapped  her  underwear  against  the  pane.  An  old  man  sat  cross-  legged  beside  her,  fin-  gering  a  newspaper.  She  looked  over  and  saw  that  the  headlines  were  all  in  Yiddish.  In  Flor-  ida  the  men  were  of  higher  quality  than  the  women.  They  knew  a  little  more  of  the  world,  they  read  newspapers,  they  lived  for  interna-  tional  affairs.  Everything  that  hap-  pened  in  the  Israeli  Knesset  they  fol-  lowed.  But  the  women  only  recited  meals  they  used  to  cook  in  their  old  lives-kugel,  pirogen,  latkes,  blintzes,  herring  salad.  Mainly  the  women  thought  about  their  hair.  They  went  to  hairdressers  and  came  out  into  the  brilliant  day  with  plantlike  crowns  the  color  of  zinnias.  Sea-green  paint  on  the  eyelids.  One  could  pity  them:  they  were  in  love  with  rumors  of  their  grandchildren,  Katie  at  Bryn  Mawr,  Jeff  at  Princeton.  To  the  grand-  children  [REDACTED]  was  a  slum,  to  Rosa  it  was  a  zoo.  She  had  no  one  but  her  cold  niece  in  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED].  &quot;Imagine  this,&quot;  theold  man  next  to  her  said.  &quot;Just  look,  first  he  has  Hitler,  then  he  has  [REDACTED],  he's  in  a  camp  in  [REDACTED]!  Next  thing  he  gets  away  to  [REDACTED],  thenhe  comes  to  [REDACTED]  and  he  peddles.  He's  a  peddler,  by  now  he's  got  a  wife,  he's  got  kids,  so  he  opens  a  little  store-  just  a  little  store,  his  wife  is  a  sick  woman,  it's  what  you  call  a  bargain  store-&quot;  &quot;What?&quot;  Rosa  said.  &quot;A  bargain  store  on  Main  Street,  a  place  in  Westchester,  not  even  the  [REDACTED].  And  they  come  in  early  in  the  morning,  he  didn't  even  hang  out  his  shopping  bags  yet,  robbers,  muggers,  and  they  choke  him,  they  finish  him  off.  From  [REDACTED]  he  lives  for  this  day!&quot;  Rosa  said  nothing.  &quot;An  innocent  man  alone  in  his  store.  Be  glad  you're  not  up  there  any-  more.  On  the  other  hand,  here  it's  no  paradise  neither.  Believe  me,  when  it  comes  to  muggers  and  stranglers  there's  no  utopia  nowhere.&quot;  &quot;'My  machine's  finished,&quot;  Rosa  said.  &quot;I  have  to  put  in  thedryer.&quot;  She  knew  about  newspapers  and  their  evil  reports:  a  newspaper  item  herself.  WOMAN  AXES  OWN  BIZ.  Rosa  [REDACTED],  59,  owner  of  a  secondhand  furniture  store  on  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  yes-  terday  afternoon  deliberately  demol-  ished  .  ..  The  News  and  the  Post.  A  big  photograph,  Stella  standing  near  with  her  mouth  stretched  and  her  arms  wild.  In  the  Times,  six  lines.  &quot;Excuse  me,  I  notice  you  speak  with  an  accent.&quot;  Rosa  flushed.  &quot;I  was  born  some-  where  else,  not  here.&quot;  &quot;I  also  was  born  somewhere  else.  You're  a  refugee?  Berlin?&quot;  &quot;[REDACTED].&quot;      &quot;I'm  also  from  [REDACTED]!  1920  I  left.  1906  I  was  born.&quot;  &quot;Happy  birthday,&quot;  Rosa  said.  She  began  to  pull  her  things  out  of  the  washing  machine.  They  were  twisted  into  each  other  like  mixed-up  snakes.  &quot;Allow  me,&quot;  said  the  old  man.  He  put  down  his  paper  and  helped  her  untangle.  &quot;Imagine  this,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;''I  wo  people  from  [REDACTED]  meet  in  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED].  In  1910  I  didn't  dream  of  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED].&quot;  &quot;My  [REDACTED]  isn't  your  [REDACTED],&quot;  Rosa  said.  &quot;As  long  as  your  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  is  my  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED].&quot;  Two  whole  rows  of  glinting  dentures  smiled  at  her;  he  was  proud  to  be  a  flirt.  To-  gether  they  shoved  the  snarled  load  into  the  dryer.  Rosa  put  in  two  quarters  and  the  thundering  hum  be-  gan.  They  heard  the  big  snaps  on  the  belt  of  her  dress  with  the  blue  stripes,  the  one  that  was  torn  in  the  armpit,  under  the  left  sleeve,  clanging  against  the  caldron's  metal  sides.  &quot;You  read  Yiddish?&quot;  the  old  man  said.  \xe2\x80\x9cNO.\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;'You  can  speak  a  few  words  maybe?&quot;  &quot;No.&quot;  My  [REDACTED]  isn't  your  War-  " b"to  single  a  stitch  and  make  her  starred  bed.  saw.  But  she  remembered  her  grand-  mother's  cradle-croonings:  her  grand-  mother  was  from  [REDACTED].  Unter  Reyzls  vigele  shteyt  a  klor-vays  tsigele.  How  Rosa's  mother  despised  those  sounds!  When  the  drying  cycle  ended,  Rosa  noticed  that  theold  man  handled  the  clothes  like  an  expert.  She  was  ashamed  for  him  to  touch  her  under-  pants.  Under  Rosa's  cradle  there's  a  clear-white  little  goat....  But  he  knew  how  tofind  a  sleeve,  wherever  it  might  be  hiding.  &quot;What  is  it,&quot;  he  asked,  &quot;you're  bashful?&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cNO\xc2\xa2\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;In  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  people  are  more  friendly.  What,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;you're  still  afraid?  Nazis  we  ain't  got,  even  Ku  Kluxers  we  ain't  got.  What  kind  of  person  are  you,  you're  still  afraid?&quot;  &quot;The  kind  of  person,&quot;  Rosa  said,  &quot;is  what  you  see.  Thirty-nine  years  ago  I  was  somebody  else.&quot;  &quot;Thirty-nine  years  ago  I  wasn't  so  bad  myself.  I  lost  my  teeth  without  a  single  cavity,&quot;  hebragged.  &quot;Every-  thing  perfect.  Periodontal  disease.&quot;  &quot;I  was  a  chemist  almost.  A  physicist,&quot;  Rosa  said.  &quot;You  think  I  wouldn't  havebeen  a  scientist?&quot;  The  thieves  who  took  her  life!  All  at  once  the  landscape  behind  her  eyes  fell  out  ofcontrol:  a  bright  field  flashed;  then  a  certain  shadowy  corridor  leading  to  the  laboratory-supplies  closet.  The  closet  opened  in  her  dreams  also.  Re-  torts  and  microscopes  were  ranged  on  the  shelves.  Once,  walking  there,  she  was  conscious  of  the  coursing  of  her  own  ecstasy-her  new  brown  shoes,  laced  and  sober,  her  white  coat,  her  hair  cut  short  in  bangs:  a  serious  per-  son  of  seventeen,  ambitious,  responsi-  ble,  a  future  Marie  Curie!  One  of  her  teachers  in  the  high  school  praised  her  for  what  he  said  was  a  &quot;literary  style&quot;  -oh,  lost  and  kidnapped  Polish!-  and  now  she  wrote  and  spoke  English  " b"as  helplessly  as  this  old  immigrant.  From  [REDACTED]!  Born  1906!  She  imagined  what  bitter  ancient  alley,  dense  with  stalls,  cheap  clothes  strung  on  outdoor  racks,  signs  in  jargoned  Yiddish.  Anyhow  they  called  her  refu-  gee.  The  556e6974656420537461746573ns  couldn't  tell  her  apart  from  this  fellow  with  his  false  teeth  and  his  dewlaps  and  his  rakehell  reddish  toupee  bought  God  knows  when  or  where-Delancey  Street,  the  lower  43616e616461Side.  A  dandy.  [REDACTED]!  What  did  he  know?  In  school  she  had  read  Tuwim:  such  delicacy,  such  loft-  iness,  such  Polishness.  The  [REDACTED]  of  her  girlhood:  a  great  light:  she  switched  it  on,  she  wanted  to  live  in-  side  her  eyes.  The  curve  of  the  legs  of  her  mother's  bureau.  The  strict  leather  smell  of  her  father's  desk.  The  white  tile  tract  of  the  kitchen  floor,  the  big  pots  breathing,  a  narrow  tower  stair  next  to  the  attic  .  ..  the  house  of  her  girlhood  laden  with  a  thousand  books.  Polish,  German,  French;  her  father's  Latin  books;  the  shelf  of  shy  literary  periodicals  her  mother's  poetry  now  and  then  wandered  through,  in  short  lines  like  heated  telegrams.  Cul-  tivation,  old  civilization,  beauty,  his-  tory!  Surprising  turnings  of  streets,  shapes  of  venerable  cottages,  lovely  aged  eaves,  unexpected  and  gossamer  turrets,  steeples,  the  gloss,  the  antiq-  uity!  Gardens.  Whoever  speaks  of  [REDACTED]  has  never  seen  [REDACTED].  Her  father,  like  her  mother,  mocked  at  Yiddish;  there  was  not  a  particle  of  ghetto  left  in  him,  not  a  grain  of  rot.  Whoever  yearns  for  an  aristocratic  sensibility,  let  him  switch  on  the  great  light  of  [REDACTED].  &quot;Your  na556e6974656420537461746573;  her  companion  said.  &quot;[REDACTED],  Rosa.&quot;  &quot;A  pleasure,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Only  why  backwards?  I'man  application  form?  Very  good.  You  apply,  I  accept.&quot;  He  took  command  of  her  shopping  cart.  &quot;Wherever  is  your  home  is  my  direc-  tion  that  I'm  going  anyhow.&quot;  &quot;You  forgot  to  take  your  laundry,&quot;  Rosa  said.  &quot;Mine  I  did  day  before  yesterday.&quot;  So  why  did  you  come  here?&quot;  &quot;I'm  devoted  to  nature.  I  like  the  sound  of  a  waterfall.  Wherever  it's  cool  it's  a  pleasure  to  sit  and  read  my  paper.&quot;  &quot;What  a  story!&quot;  &quot;All  right,  so  I  go  to  have  a  visit  with  the  ladies.  Tell  me,  you  like  con-  certs?&quot;  &quot;I  like  my  own  room,  that's  all.&quot;  &quot;A  lady  what  wants  to  bea  her-  mit!&quot;  &quot;I  got  my  own  troubles,&quot;  Rosa  said.  &quot;Unload  onme.&quot;  IN  the  street  she  plodded  beside  him  dumbly,  a  led  animal.  Her  shoes  were  not  nice;  she  should  have  put  on  the  other  ones.  The  sunlight  was  honey  dumped  on  their  heads:  one  lick  was  good,  too  much  could  drown  you.  She  was  glad  to  have  someone  to  pull  the  cart.  &quot;You  got  internal  warnings  about     talking  to  a  stranger?  If  I  say  my  name,  no  more  a  stranger.  Simon  Per-  sky.  A  third  cousin  to  Shimon  Peres,  the  Israeli  politician.  I  have  different  famous  relatives,  plenty  of  family  pride.  You  ever  heard  of  Betty  Bacall,  who  Humphrey  Bogart  the  movie  star  was  married  to,  a  Jewish  girl?  Also  a  distant  cousin.  I  could  tell  you  the  whole  story  of  my  life  experience,  be-  ginning  with  [REDACTED].  Actually  it  wasn't  [REDACTED],  it  was  a  little  place  a  few  miles  out  of  town.  In  [REDACTED]  I  had  uncles.&quot;  Rosa  said  again,  &quot;Your  [REDACTED]  isn't  my  [REDACTED].&quot;  He  stopped  the  cart.  &quot;What  is  this?  A  song  with  one  stanza?  You  think  I  don't  know  the  difference  between  generations?  I'm  seventy-one,  and  you,  you're  only  a  girl.&quot;  &quot;Fifty-eight.&quot;  Though  in  the  pa-  pers,  when  they  told  how  she  smashed  up  her  store,  it  came  out  fifty-nine.  Stella's  fault,  Stella's  black  will,  the  Angel  of  Death's  arithmetic.  &quot;You  see?  I  told  you!  A  girl!&quot;  &quot;I'm  from  an  educated  family.&quot;  &quot;Your  English  ain't  better  than  what  any  other  refugee  talks.&quot;  &quot;Why  should  I  learn  English'  I  didn't  ask  for  it,  I  got  nothing  to  do  with  it.&quot;  &quot;You  can't  live  in  the  past,&quot;  he  advised.  Again  the  wheels  of  the  cart  were  squealing.  Like  a  calf,  Rosa  fol-  lowed.  They  were  approaching  a  self-  service  cafeteria.  The  smells  of  egg-  plant,  fried  potatoes,  mushrooms  blew  " b"out  as  if  pumped.  Rosa  read  the  sign:  Koruins  Kosurr  Kamro:  Every-  THING  on  Your  Prater  as  Pretty  as  a  Picture:  REemEmBrRANCES  or  [REDACTED]  anpTHE  Parapisr  or  Your  MarTrrnar  Kirrecuen:  Dericious  Disurs  or  Amsrosta  anp  NostaL-  ora:  Amr  Conprrionep  Turv-out.  &quot;I  know  the  owner,&quot;  Persky  said.  &quot;He's  a  big  reader.  You  want  tea?&quot;  (\xe2\x80\x98Tea?),  &quot;Not  iced.  The  hotter  the  better.  This  is  physiology.  Come  in,  you'll  cool  off.  You  got  some  red  face,  be-  lieve  me.&quot;  Rosa  looked  in  the  window.  Her  bun  was  loose,  strings  dangling  on  either  side  of  her  neck.  The  reflection  of  a  ragged  old  bird  with  worn  feath-  ers.  Skinny,  a  stork.  Her  dress  was  missing  a  button,  but  maybe  the  belt  buckle  covered  this  shame.  What  did  she  care?  She  thought  of  her  room,  her  bed,  her  radio.  She  hated  conversa-  tion.  &quot;I  got  to  get  back,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;An  appointment?&quot;  \xe2\x80\x98(N0.77  &quot;Then  have  an  appointment  with  Persky.  So  come,  first  tea.  If  you  take  with  an  ice  cube,  you're  involved  in  a  mistake.&quot;  They  went  in  and  chose  a  tiny  table  in  a  corner-a  sticky  disc  on  a  wobbly  plastic  pedestal.  &quot;You'll  stay,  I'll  get,&quot;  Persky  said.  She  sat  and  panted.  Silverware  tapped  and  clicked  all  around.  No  one  here  but  old  people.  It  was  like  the  din-  ing  room  of  a  convalescent  home.  Ev-  eryone  had  canes,  dowager's  humps,  acrylic  teeth,  shoes  cut  out  for  bun-  ions.  Everyone  wore  an  open  col-  lar  showing  mottled  skin,  ferocious  clavicles,  the  wrinkled  foundations  of  wasted  breasts.  The  air-conditioning  was  on  too  high;  she  felt  the  cooling  sweat  licking  from  around  her  neck  down,  down  her  spine  into  the  crevice  of  her  bottom.  She  was  afraid  to  shift;  the  chair  had  a  wicker  back  and  a  black  plastic  seat.  If  she  moved  even  a  little,  an  odor  would  fly  up:  urine,  salt,  old  woman's  fatigue.  She  left  off  pant-  ing  and  shivered.  What  do  I  care?  I'm  used  to  everything.  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  it  doesn't  matter.  All  the  same,  she  took  out  two  hairpins  and  caught  up  the  hanging  strands;  she  shoved  them  into  the  core  of  her  gray  knot  and  pierced  them  through.  She  had  no  mirror,  no  comb,  no  pocketbook;  not  even  a  handkerchief.  All  she  had  was  a  Kleenex  pushed  into  her  sleeve  and some  coins  in  the  pock-  et  of  her  dress.  &quot;I  came  out  only  for  the  laundry,&quot;  she  told  Persky.  With  a  groan  he  set  down  a  loaded  tray:  two  cups  of  tea,  a  saucer  of  lemon  slices,  a  dish  of  eggplant  salad,  bread  on  what  looked  like  a  wooden  platter  but  was  really  plastic,  an-  other  plastic  platter  of  Danish.  &quot;Maybe  I  didn't  bring  enough  to  pay&quot;)  &quot;Never  mind,  you  got  the  company  of  a  rich  retired  taxpayer.  I'm  a  well-of  man.  When  I  get  my  Social  Security,  I  spit  on  it.&quot;  &quot;What  line  of  busi-  ness?&quot;  &quot;The  same  what  I  see  you  got  one  lost.  At  the  waist.  Buttons.  A  shame.  That  kind's  hard  to  match,  as  far  as  I'm  concerned  we  stopped  making  them  around  a  dozen  years  ago.  Braided  buttons  is  out  of  style.&quot;  &quot;Buttons?&quot;  Rosa  said.  &quot;Buttons,  belts,  notions,  knick-  knacks,  costume  jewelry.  A  factory.  I  thought  my  son  would  take  it  over  but  he  wanted  something  different.  He's  a  philosopher,  so  he  became  a  loiterer.  Too  much  education  makes  fools.  I  hate  to  say  it,  but  on  account  of  him  I  had  to  sell  out.  And  the  girls,  what-  ever  the  big  one  wanted,  the  little  one  also.  The  big  one  found  a  lawyer,  that's  what  the  little  one  looked  for.  I  got  one  son-in-law  in  business  for  himself,  taxes,  the  other's  a  youngster,  still  on  Wall  Street.&quot;  &quot;A  nice  family,&quot;  Rosa  bit  off.  &quot;A  loiterer's  not  so  nice.  Drink  while  it's  hot.  Otherwise  it  won't  reach  to  your  metabolism.  You  like  eggplant  salad  on  topof  bread  and  butter?  You  got  room  for  it,  rest  as-  sured.  Tell  me,  you  live  alone?&quot;  &quot;By  myself,&quot;  Rosa  said,  and  slid  her  tongue  into  the  tea.  Tears  came  from  the  heat.  &quot;My  son  is  over  thirty,  I  still  sup-  port  him.&quot;  &quot;My  niece,  forty-nine,  not  married,  she  supports  me.&quot;  &quot;Too  old.  Otherwise  I'd  say  let's  " b"make  a  match  with  my  son,  let  her  support  him  too.  The  best  thing  is  independence.  If  you're  ablebodied,  it's  a  blessing  to  work.&quot;&quot;  Persky  caressed  his  chest.  &quot;I  got  a  bum  heart.&quot;  Rosa  murmured,  &quot;I  had  a  business,  but  I  broke  it  up.&quot;  &quot;Bankruptcy?&quot;  &quot;Part  with  a  big  hammer,&quot;  she  said  meditatively,  &quot;part  with  a  piece  of  construction  metal  I  picked  up  from  the  gutter.&quot;  &quot;You  don't  look  that  strong.  Skin  and  bones.&quot;  &quot;You  don't  believe  me?  In  the  pa-  pers  they  said  an  axe,  but  where  would  I  get  an  axe?&quot;  &quot;'That's  reasonable.  Where  would  you  get  an  axe?&quot;  Persky's  finger  re-  moved  an  obstruction  from  under  his  lower  plate.  He  examined  it:  an  egg-  plant  seed.  On  the  floor  near  the  cart  there  was  something  white,  a  white  cloth.  Handkerchief.  He  picked  it  up  and  stuffed  it  in  his  pants  pocket.  Then  he  said,  &quot;What  kind  of  busi-  ness?&quot;  &quot;Antiques.  Old  furniture.  Junk.  I  had  a  specialty  in  antique  mirrors.  Whatever  I  had  there,  I  smashed  it.  See,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;mow  you're  sorry  you  started  with  me!&quot;  &quot;I  ain't  sorry  for  nothing,&quot;  Persky  said.  &quot;If  there's  one  thing  I  know  to  understand,  it's  mental  episodes.  I  got  it  my  whole  life  with  my  wife.&quot;  &quot;'You're  not  a  wid-  ower?&quot;  &quot;In  a  manner  of  speaking.&quot;  &quot;Where  is  she?&quot;  &quot;Great  Neck,  Long  Island.  A  private  hos-  pital,  it  don't  cost  me  peanuts.&quot;  He  said,  &quot;She's  in  a  mental  con-  dition.&quot;  &quot;Serious?&quot;  &quot;It  used  to  be  once  in  a  while,  now  it's  a  regular  thing.  She's  mixed  up  that  she's  somebody  else.  Tele-  vision  stars,  Movie  ac-  tresses.  Different  people.  Lately  my  cousin,  Betty  Bacall.  It  went  to  her  head.&quot;  &quot;Tragic,&quot;  Rosa  said.  You  see?  I  unloaded  on  you,  now  you  got  to  unload  on  me.&quot;  &quot;Whatever  I  would  say,  you  would  be  deaf.&quot;  &quot;How  come  yousmashedup  your  business?&quot;  &quot;It  was  a  store.  I  didn't  like  who  came  in  it.&quot;  &quot;Spanish?  Colored?&quot;  &quot;What  do  I  care  who  came?  Who-  ever  came,  they  were  like  deaf  people.  Whatever  you  explained  to  them,  they  didn't  understand.&quot;  Rosa  stood  up  to  claim  her  cart.  &quot;It's  very  fine  of  you  to  treat  me  to  the  Danish,  Mr.  Persky.  I  enjoyed  it.  Now  I  got  to  go.&quot;  &quot;I'll  walk  you.&quot;  &quot;No,  no,  sometimes  a  person  feels  to  be  alone.&quot;  &quot;Ifyou're  alone  too  much,&quot;  Persky  said,  &quot;you  think  too  much.&quot;  &quot;Without  a  life,&quot;  Rosa  answered,  &quot;a  person  lives  where  they  can.  If  all  they  got  is  thoughts,  that's  where  they  live.&quot;  &quot;You  ain't  got  a  life?&quot;  &quot;Thieves  took  it.&quot;  She  toiled  away  from  him.  The  handle  of  the  cart  was  a  burning  rod.  A  hat,  I  ought  to  have  worn  a  hat!  &quot;I  gave  that.&quot;  48  The  pins  in  her  bun  scalded  her  scalp.  She  panted  like  a  dog  in  thesun.  Even  the  trees  looked  exhausted:  every  leaf  face  downward  under  a  powder  of  dust.  Summer  without  end,  a  mis-  take!  IN  the  lobby  she  waited  before  the  elevator.  The  &quot;guests&quot;-some  had  been  residents  for  a  dozen  years-were  already  milling  around,  groomed  for  lunch,  the  old  women  in  sundresses  showing  their  thick  collarbones  and  the  bluish  wells  above  them.  Instead  of  napes  they  had  rolls  of  wide  fat.  They  wore  no  stockings.  Brazen  blue-mar-  bled  sinews  strangled  their  squarish  calves;  in  their  reveries  they  were  again  young  women  with  immortal  pillar  legs,  the  white  legs  of  strong  goddesses;  it  was  only  that  they  had  forgotten  about  impermanence.  In  their  faces,  too,  you  could  see  every-  thing  they  were  not  noticing  about  themselves-the  red  gloss  on  their  drawstring  mouths  was  never  meant  to  restore  youth.  It  was  meant  only  to  continue  it.  Flirts  of  seventy.  Every-  thing  had  stayed  the  same  for  them:  intentions,  actions,  even  expectations     " b"-they  had  not  advanced.  They  be-  lieved  in  the  seamless  continuity  of  the  body.  The  men  were  more  inward,  running  their  lives  in  front  of  their  eyes  like  secret  movies.  A  syrup  of  cologne  clogged  the  air.  Rosa  heard  the  tearing  of  envelopes,  the  wing-shudders  of  paper  sheets.  Letters  from  children:  the  guests  laughed  and  wept,  but  without  seri-  ousness,  without  belief.  Report-card  marks,  separations,  divorces,  a  new  coffee  table  to  match  the  gilt  mirror  over  the  piano,  Stuie  at  sixteen  learn-  ing  to  drive,  Millie's  mother-in-law's  second  stroke,  rumors  of  the  cataracts  of  half-remembered  acquaintances,  a  cousin's  kidney,  the  rabbi's  ulcer,  a  daughter's  indigestion,  burglary,  per-  plexing  news  of  43616e616461Hampton  parties,  psychoanalysis  ...  the  children  were  rich,  how  was  this  possible  from  such  poor  parents?  It  was  real  and  it  was  not  real.  Shadows  on  a  wall;  the  shadows  stirred,  but  you  could  not  penetrate  the  wall.  The  guests  were  detached;  they  had  detached  them-  selves.  Little  by  little  they  were  forget-  ting  their  grandchildren,  their  aging  children.  More  and  more  they  were  growing  significant  to  themselves.  Ev-  ery  wall  of  the  lobby  a  mirror.  Every  mirror  hanging  thirty  years.  Every  ta-  ble  surface  a  mirror.  In  these  mirrors  the  guests  appeared  to  themselves  as  they  used  to  be,  powerful  women  of  thirty,  striving  fathers  of  thirty-five,  mothers  and  fathers  of  dim  children  who  had  migrated  long  ago,  to  other  continents,  inaccessible  landscapes,  in-  comprehensible  vocabularies.  Rosa  made  herself  brave;  the  elevator  gate  opened,  butshe  let  the  empty  car  ascend  without  her  and  pushed  the  cart  through  to  where  the  black  Cuban  receptionist  sat,  maneuvering  clayey  sweat  balls  up  from  the  naked  place  between  her  breasts  with  two  fin-  ers.  \xc2\xabMail  for  [REDACTED],  Rosa,&quot;  Rosa  said.  &quot;[REDACTED],  you  lucky  today.  T'wo  let-  ters.&quot;  &quot;T  ake  a  look  where  you  keep  pack-  ages  also.&quot;  &quot;You  a  lucky  dog,  [REDACTED],&quot;  the  Cu-  ban  girl  said,  and  tossed  an  object  into  the  pile  of  wash.  Rosa  knew  what  was  in  that  pack-  age.  She  had  asked  Stella  to  send  it;  Stella  did  not  easily  do  what  Rosa  asked.  She  saw  immediately  that  the  package  was  not  registered.  This  an-  gered  her:  Stella  the  Angel  of  Death!  Instantly  she  plucked  the  package  out  of  the  cart  and  tore  the  wrapping  off  and  crumpled  it  into  a  standing  ash-  tray.  Magda's  shawl!  Suppose,  God  forbid,  it  got  lost  in  the  mail,  what  then?  She  squashed  the  box  into  her  breasts.  It  felt  hard,  heavy;  Stella  had  encased  it  in  some  terrible  untender  rind;  Stella  had  turned  it  to  stone.  She  wanted  to  kiss  it,  but  the  maelstrom  was  all  around  her,  pressing  toward the  dining  room.  The  food  was  monotonous  and  sparse  and  often  stale;  still,  to  eat  there  increased  the  rent.  Stella  was  all  the  time  writing  that  she  was  not  a  millionaire;  Rosa  never  ate  in  the  dining  room.  She  kept  the  package  tight  against  her  bosom  and  picked  through  the  crowd,  a  slug-  gish  bird  on  ragged  toes,  dragging  the  cart.  In  her  room  she  breathed  noisily,  almost  a  gasp,  almost  a  squeal,  left  the  laundry  askew  in  the  tiny  parody  of  a  vestibule,  and  carried  the  boxand  the  two  letters  to  the  bed.  It  was  still  unmade,  fish-smelling,  the  covers  knotted  together  like  an  umbilical  cord.  A  shipwreck.  She  let  herself  down  into  it  and  knocked  off  her  shoes  -oh,  they  were  scarred;  that  Persky  must  have  seen  her  shame,  first  the  missing  button,  afterward  the  used-  up  shoes.  She  turned  the  box  round  and  round-a  rectangular  box.  Mag-  da's  shawl!  Magda's  swaddling  cloth.  Magda's  shroud.  The  memory  of  Magda's  smell,  the  holy  fragrance  of  the  lost  babe.  Murdered.  Thrown  against  the  fence,  barbed,  thorned,  electrified;  grid  and  griddle;  a  furnace;  the  child  on  fire!  Rosa  put  the  shawl  to  her  nose,  to  her  lips.  Stella  did  not  want  her  to  have  Magda's  shawl  all  the  time,  she  had  such  funny  names  for  having  it-trauma,  fetish,  God  knows  what:  Stella  took  psychology  courses  at  the  New  School  at  night,  looking  for  marriage  among  the  flatulent  bachelors  in  her  classes.  One  letter  was  from  Stella  and  the  other  was  one  of  those  university  letters,  still  another  one,  another  sample  of  the  disease.  But  in  the  box,  Magda's  shawl!  The  box  would  be  last,  Stella's  fat  letter  first  (fat  meant  trouble),  theuniversity  letter  did  not  matter.  A  disease.  Better  to  put  away  the  laundry  than  to  open  the  university  letter.  DEAR  ROSA  [Stella  wrote]:  All  right,  I've  done  it.  Been  to  the  post  office  and  mailed  it.  Your  idol  is  on  its  way,  separate  cover.  Go  on  as,  your  knees  to  it  if  you  want.  You  make  yourself  crazy,  everyone  thinks  you're  a  crazy  woman.  Whoever  goes  by  your  old  store  still  gets  glass  in  their  soles.  " b"You're  the  older  one,  I'm  the  niece,  1  shouldn't  lec-  ture,  but  my  God!  It's  thir-  ty  years,  forty,  who  knows,  give  it  a  rest.  It  isn't  as  if  I  don't  know  just  exactly  how  you  do  it,  what  it's  like.  What  a  scene,  dis-  gusting!  You'll  open  the  box  and  take  it  out  and  cry,  and  you'll  kiss  it  like  a  crazy  person.  Making  holes  in  it  with  kisses.  You're  like  those  people  in  the  Middle  Ages  who  wor-  shipped  a  piece  of  the  True  Cross,  a  splinter  from  some  old  outhouse  as  far  as  anybody  knew,  or  else  they  fell  down  in  front  of  a  sin-  gle  hair  supposed  to  be  some  saint's.  You'll  kiss,  you'll  pee  tears  down  your  face,  and  so  what?  Rosa,  by  now,  believe  me,  it's  time,  youhave  to  have  a  life.  Out  loud  Rosa  said,  &quot;Thieves  took  it.&quot;  And  she  said,  &quot;And  you,  Stella,  you  have  a  life?&quot;  'If  I  were  a  millionaire  I'd  tell  you  the  same  thing:  get  a  job.  Or  else,  come  back  and  move  in  here.  I'm  away  the  whole  day,  it  will  be  like  living  alone  if  that's  what  you  want.  It's  too  hot  to  look  around  down  there,  people  get  like  vege-  tables.  With  everything  you  did  for  me  I  don't  mind  keeping  up  this  way  maybe  another  year  or  so,  you'll  think  I'm  stingy  for  saying  it  like  that,  but  after  all  I'm  not  on  the  biggest  salary  in  the  world.  Rosa  said,  &quot;Stella!  Would  you  be  alive  if  I  didn't  take  you  out  from  there?  Dead.  You'd  be  dead!  So  don't  talk  to  mehow  much  an  old  woman  costs!  I  didn't  give  you  from  my  store?  The  big  gold  mirror,  you  look  in  it  at  your  bitter  face-I  don't  care  how  pretty,  even  so  it's  bitter-and  you  forget  who  gave  you  presents!&quot;  And  as  far  as  [REDACTED]  is  concerned,  well,  it  doesn't  solve  anything.  I  don't  mind  telling  you  now  that  they  would  have  locked  youup  if  I  didn't  agree  to  get  you  out  of  the  city  then  and  there.  One  more  public  outburst  puts  you  in  the  bughouse.  No  more  public  scandals!  For  God's  sake,  don't  be  a  crazy  person!  Live  your  life!  Rosa  said  again,  &quot;Thieves  took  it,&quot;  and  went,  scrupulously,meticulously,  as  if  possessed,  to  count  the  laundry  in  the  cart.  PAIR  of  underpants  was  miss-  ing.  Once  more  Rosa  counted  everything:  four  blouses,  three  cotton  skirts,  three  brassieres,  one  half-slip     and  one  regular,  two  towels,  eight  pairs  of  underpants  ...  nine  went  into  the  washing  machine,  the  exact  num-  ber.  Degrading.  Lost  bloomers-  dropped  God  knows  where.  In  the  elevator,  in  the  lobby,  in  the  street  even.  Rosa  tugged,  and  the  dress  with  the  blue  stripes  slid  like  a  coarse  col-  ored  worm  out  of  twisted  bedsheets.  The  hole  in  the  armpit  was  bigger  now.  Stripes,  never  again  anything  on  her  body  with  stripes!  She  swore  it,  but  this,  fancy  and  with  a  low  collar,  was  Stella's  birthday  present,  Stella  bought  it.  As  if  innocent,  as  if  ignorant,  as  if  not  there.  Stella,  an  ordinary  Ameri-  can,  indistinguishable!  No  one  could  guess  what  hell  she  had  crawled  out  of  until  she  opened  her  mouth  and  up  coiled  the  smoke  of  accent.  Again  Rosa  counted.  A  fact,  one  pairof  pants  lost.  An  old  woman  who  couldn't  even  hang  on  to  her  own  underwear.  She  decided  to  sew  up  the  hole  in  the  stripes.  Instead  she  put  water  on  to  boil  for  tea  and  made  the  bed  with  the  clean  sheets  from  the  cart.  The  box  with  the  shawl  would  be  the  last  thing.  Stella's  letter  she  pushed  under  the  bed  next  to  the  telephone.  She  tidied  all  around.  Everything  had  to  be  nice  when  the  box  was  opened.  She  spread  jelly  on  three  crackers  and  deposited  a  Lipton's  tea  bag  on  the  Welch's  lid.  It  was  grape  jelly,  with  a  picture  of  Bugs  Bunny  elevating  an  officious  finger.  In  spite  of  Persky's  Danish,  empty  insides.  Always  Stella  said:  Rosa  eats  little  by  little,  like  a  tapeworm  in  the  world's  belly.  Then  it  came  to  her  that  Persky  had  her  underpants  in  his  pocket.  Oh,  degrading.  The  shame.  Pain  in  the  loins.  Burning.  Bending  in  the  cafeteria  to  pick  up  her  pants,  all  the  while  tinkering  with  his  teeth.  Why  didn't  he  give  them  back?  He  was  embarrassed.  He  had  thought  a  hand-  kerchief.  How  can  a  man  hand  a  woman,  a  stranger,  a  piece  of  her  own  underwear?  He  could  have  shoved  it  right  back  into  the  cart,  how  would  that  look?  A  sensitive  man,  he  wanted  to  spare  her.  When  he  came  home  with  her  underpants,  what  then?  What  could  a  man,  half  a  widower,  do  with  a  pair  of  female  bloomers?  Ny-  lon-plus-cotton,  the  long-thighed  kind.  Maybe  he  had  filched  them  on  purpose,  a  sex  maniac,  awife  among  the  insane,  his  parts  starved.  Accord-  ing  to  Stella,  Rosa  also  belonged  among  the  insane,  Stella  had  the  power  to  put  her  there.  Very  good,  they  would  become  neighbors,  confi-  dantes,  she  and  Persky's  wife,  best  friends.  The  wife  would  confess  all  of  Persky's  sexual  habits.  She  would  ex-  plain  how  it  is  that  a  man  of  this  age  " b"comes  to  steal  a  lady's  personal  under-  wear.  Whatever  stainsin  the  crotch  are  nobody's  business.  And  not  only  that:  a  woman  with  children,  Persky's  wife  would  speak  of  her  son  and  her  married  lucky  daughters.  And  Rosa  too,  never  mind  how  Stella  was  sour  over  it,  she  would  tell  about  Magda,  a  beautiful  young  woman  of  thirty,  thirty-one:  a  doctor  married  to  a  doctor;  large  house  in  Mamaroneck,  [REDACTED];  two  medical  offices,  one  on  the  first  floor,  one  in  the  finished  basement.  Stella  was  alive,  why  not  Magda?  Who  was  Stella,  coarse  Stella,  to  insist  that  Magda  was  not  alive?  Stella  the  Angel  of  Death.  Mag-  da  alive,  the  pure  eyes,  the  bright  hair.  Stella,  never  a  mother,  who  was  Stella  to  mock  the  kisses  Rosa  put  in  Magda's  shawl?  She  meant  to  crush  it  into  her  mouth.  Rosa,  a  mother  the  same  as  anyone,  no  different  from  Per-  sky's  wife  in  the  crazy  house.  This  disease!  The  university  letter,  like  all  of  them-five,  six  postmarks  on  the  envelope.  Rosa  imagined  its  pilgrimage:  first  to  the  News,  the  Post,  maybe  even  the  Times,  then  to  Rosa's  old  store,  then  to  the  store's  landlord's  lawyers,  then  to  Stella's  apartment,  then  to  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED].  A  Sherlock  Holmes  of  a  letter.  It  had  struggled  to  find  its  victim,  and  for  what?  More  eating  alive.  DEPARTMENT  OF  CLINICAL  SOCIAL  PATHOLOGY  Universtry  or  Kasas-lowa  April  17,  1977  Dear  Ms.  Lusuim:  Though  I  am  not  myself  a  physician,  I  have  lately  begun  to  amass  survivor  data  as  rather  a  considerable  specialty.  To  be  concrete:  I  am  presently  working  on  a  study,  funded  by  the  Minew  Foundation  of  the  [REDACTED]-lowa  Institute  for  Humanitar-  ian  Context,  designed  to  research  the  the-  ory  developed  by  Dr.  Arthur  R.  Hidgeson  and  known  generally  as  Repressed  Anima-  tion.  Without  at  this  stage  going  into  de-  tail,  it  may  be  of  some  preliminary  use  to  you  to  know  that  investigations  so  far  reveal  an  astonishing  generalized  minimal-  ization  during  any  extended  period  of  stress  resulting  from  incarceration,  expo-  sure,  and  malnutrition.  We  have  turned  up  a  wide  range  of  neurological  residues  (in-  cluding,  in  some  cases,  acute  cerebral  dam-  age.  derangement,  disorientation,  prema-  ture  senility,  etc.),  as  well  as  hormonal  changes,  parasites,  anemia,  thready  pulse,  hyperventilation,  etc.;  in  children  espe-  cially,  temperatures  as  high  as  108\xc2\xb0,  ascit-  ic  fluid,  retardation,  bleeding  sores  on  the  skin  and  in  the  mouth,  etc.  What  is  re-  markable  is  that  these  are  all  current  con-  ditions  in  survivors  and  their  families.  Disease,  disease!  Humanitarian  Context,  what  did  it  mean?  An  excitement  over  other  people's  suffering.  They  let  their  mouths  water  up.  Sto-  ries  about  children  running  blood  in  [REDACTED]  from  sores,  what  muck.  Con-  sider  also  the  special  word  they  used:  survivor.  Something  new.  As  long  as  they  didn't  have  to  say  human  being.  It  used  to  be  refugee,  but  by  now  there  was  no  such  creature,  no  more  refu-  gees,  only  survivors.  A  name  like  a  number-counted  apart  from  the  ordi-  nary  swarm.  Blue  digits  on  the  arm,  what  difference?  They  don't  call  you  a  woman  anyhow.  Survivor.  Even  when  your  bones  get  melted  into  the  grains  of  the  earth,  still  they'll  forget  human     -May  Swenson  being.  Survivor  and  survivor  and  sur-  vivor;  always  and  always.  Who  made  up  these  words,  parasites  on  the  throat  of  suffering!  For  some  months  teams  of  medical  para-  phrasers  have  been  conducting  interviews  with  survivors,  to  contrast  current  medical  paraphrase  with  conditions  found  more  than  three  decades  ago,  at  the  opening  of  the  camps.  This,  I  confess,  is  neither  my  field  nor  my  interest.  My  own  concern,  both  as  a  scholar  of  social  pathology  and  as  a  human  being  ...  Ha!  For  himself  it  was  good  enough,  for  himself  he  didn't  forget  this  word  human  being!  ...is  not  with  medical  nor  even  with  psy-  chological  aspects  of  survivor  data.  Data.  Drop  in  a  hole!  What  particularly  engages  me  for  pur-  poses  of  my  own  participation  in  the  study  (which,  by  the  way,  is  intended  to  be  definitive,  to  close  the  books,  soto  speak,  on  this  lamentable  subject)  is  what  I  can  only  term  the  &quot;metaphysical&quot;  side  of  Re-  pressed  Animation  (R.A.).  It  begins  to  be  evident  that  prisoners  gradually  came  to  Buddhist  positions.  They  gave  up  craving  and  began  to  function  in  terms  of  non-  " b"functioning,  i.e.,  non-attachment.  The  Four  Noble  Truths  in  Buddhist  thought,  if  I  may  remind  you,  yield  a  penetrating  summary  of  the  fruit  of  craving:  pain.  &quot;Pain&quot;  in  this  view  is  defined  as  ugliness,  age,  sorrow,  sickness,  despair,  and,  finally,  birth.  Non-attachment  is  attained  through  the  Eightfold  Path,  the  highest  stage  of  which  is  the  cessation  of  all  human  crav-  ing,  the  loftiest  rapture,  one  might  say,  of  consummated  indifference.  It  is  my  hope  that  these  speculations  are  not  displeasing  to  you.  Indeed,  I  further  hope  that  they  may  even  attract  you,  and  that  you  would  not  object  to  joining  our  study  by  means  of  an  in-depth  interview  to  be  conducted  by  me  at,  if  it  is  not  inconve-  nient,  your  home.  I  should  like  to  observe  survivor  syndroming  within  the  natural  setting.  Home!  Where,  where?  As  you  may  not  realize,  the  national  convention  of  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  Association  of  Clinical  Social  Pathology  has  this  year,  for  reasons  of  fairness  to  our  43616e616461Coast  mem-  bers,  been  moved  from  556e6974656420537461746573to  Mi-  ami  [REDACTED].  The  convention  will  take  place  at  a  hotel  in  your  vicinity  about  the  middle of  next  May,  and  I  would  be  deeply  grate-  ful  if  you  could  receive  me  during  that  period.  I  have  noted  via  a  [REDACTED]  City  newspaper  (we  are  not  so  provincial  out  here  as  some  may  think!)  your  recent  re-  moval  to  [REDACTED];  consequently  you  are  ideally  circumstanced  to  make  a  contribu-  tionto  our  R.A.  study.  I  look  forward  to  your  consent  at  your  earliest  opportunity.  Very  sincerely  yours,  James  W.  Trex,  Drop  in  a  hole!  Disease!  It  comes  from  Stella,  everything!  Stella  saw  what  this  letter  was,  she  could  see  from  the  envelope-Dr.  Stella!  Kan-  sas-lowa  Clinical  Social  Pathology,  a  fancy  hotel,  this  is  the  cure  for  the  taking  of  a  life!  Angel  of  Death!  With  these  university  letters  Rosa  had  a  routine:  she  carried  the  scissors  over  the  toilet  bowl  and  snipped  little  bits  of  paper  and  flushed.  In  the  bowl  going  down,  the  paper  squares  whirled  like  wedding  rice.  But  this  one:  drop  in  a  hole  with  your  Four  Truths  and  your  Eight  Paths  together!  Non-attachment!  She  threw  the  letter  into  the  sink;  also  its  crowded  envelope  (&quot;Please  forward,&quot;  Stella's  handwriting  instructed,  pre-  tending  to  be  556e6974656420537461746573n,  leaving  out  the  little  stroke  that  goes  across  the  7);  she  lit  a  match  and  enjoyed  the  thick  fire.  Burn,  Dr.  Tree,  burn  up  with  your  Repressed  Animation!  The  world  is  full  of  Trees!  The  world  is  full  of  fire!  Everything,  everything  is  on  fire!  [REDACTED]  is  burning!  BIG  flakes  of  cinder  lay  in  the  sink:  black  foliage,  Stella's  black  will.  Rosa  turned  on  the  faucet,  and  the  cinders  spiralled  down  and  away.  Then  she  went  to  the  round  oak  table  and  wrote  the  first  letter  of  the  day  to  her  daughter,  her  healthy  daughter,  her  daughter  who  suffered  neither  from  thready  pulse  nor  anemia,  her  daughter  who  was  a  professor  of  Greek  philosophy  at  Columbia  Uni-  versity  in  [REDACTED]  City,  a  stone's  " b"throw  -the  philosophers'  stone  that  prolongs  life  and  transmutes  iron  to  gold-from  Stella  in  [REDACTED]!  Maca,  my  SOUL's  BLESSING  [Rosa  wrote],  Forgive  me,  my  yellow  lioness.  Too  long  a  time  since  the  last  writing.  Strangers  scratch  at  my  life;  they  pursue,  they  break  down  the  bloodstream's  sentries.  Always  there  is  Stella.  And  so  half  a  day  passes  without  my  taking  up  my  pen  to  speak  to  you.  A  pleasure,  the  deepest  pleasure,  home  bliss,  to  speak  in  our  own  language.  Only  to  you.  I  am  alwayshaving  to  write  to  Stella  now,  like  a  dog  paying  respects  to  its  mistress.  It's  my  obligation.  She  sends  me  money.  She,  whom  I  plucked  out  of  the  claws  of  all  those  Societies  that  came  to  us  with  bread  and  chocolate  after  the  libera-  tion!  Despite  everything,  they  were  selling  sectarian  ideas;  collecting  troops  for  their  armies.  If  not  for  me  they  would  have  shipped  Stella  with  a  boatload  of  orphans to  [REDACTED],  to  become  God  knows  what,  to  live  God  knows  how.  A  field  worker  jabbering  Hebrew.  It  would  serve  her  right.  556e6974656420537461746573nized  airs.  My  father  was  never  a  Zionist.  He  used  to  call  himself  a  &quot;Pole  by  right.&quot;  The  Jews,  he  said,  didn't  put  a  thousand  years  of  brains  and  blood  into  Polish  soil  in  order  to  have  to  prove  themselves  to  anyone.  He  was  the  wrong  sort  of  idealist,  maybe,  but  he  had  the  instincts  ofa  natural  nobleman.  1  could  laugh  at  that  now-the  whole  business-  but  I  don't,  because  I  feel  too  vividly  what  he  was,  how  substantial,  how  not  given  over  to  any  light-mindedness  whatever,  He  had  Zionist  friends  in  his  youth.  Some  left  [REDACTED]  early  and  lived.  One  is  a  bookseller  in  Tel  Aviv.  He  specializes  in  foreign  texts  and  periodicals.  My  poor  little  father.  It's  only  history-an  ad  hoc  instance  of  it,  you  might  say-that  made  the  Zionist  solution.  My  father's  ideas  were  more  logical.  He  was  a  Polish  patriot  on  a  temporary  basis,  he  said,  until  the  time  when  nation  should  lie  down  beside  nation  like  the  lily  and  the  lotus.  He  was  at  bottom  a  prophetic  crea-  ture.  My  mother,  you  know,  published  po-  etry.  To  you  all  these  accounts  must  have  the  ring  of  pure  legend.  Even  Stella,  who  can  remember,  refuses.  She  calls  me  a  parable-maker.  She  was  always  jealous  of  you.  She  has  a  strain  of  dementia,  and  resists  you  and  all  other  reality.  Every  vestige  of  former  existence  is  an  insult  to  her.  Because  she  fears  the  past  she  distrusts  the  future-it,  too,  will  turn  into  the  past.  As  a  result  she  has  nothing.  She  sits  and  watches  the  present  roll  itself  up  into  the  past  more  quickly  than  she  can  bear.  That's  why  she  never  found  the  one  thing  she  wanted  more  than  anything,  an  556e6974656420537461746573n  husband.  I'm  immune  to  these  pains  and  panics.  Motherhood  -I've  al-  ways  known  this-is  a  profound  distrac-  tion  from  philosophy,  and  all  philosophy  is  rooted  in  suffering  over  the  passage  of  time.  I  mean  the  fact  of  motherhood,  the  physiological  fact.  To  have  the  power  to  create  another  human  being,  to  be  the  instrument  of  such  a  mystery.  To  pass  on  a  whole  genetic  system,  I  don't  believe  in  God,  but  I  believe,  like  the  Catholics,  in  mystery.  My  mother  wanted  so  much  to  convert;  my  father  laughed  at  her.  But  she  was  attracted.  She  let  the  maid  keep  a  statue  of  the  Virgin  and  Child  in  the  cor-  ner  of  the  kitchen.  Sometimes  she  used  to  go  in  and  look  at  it.  I  can  even  remember  the  words  of  a  poem  she  wrote  about  the  heat  coming  up  from  the  stove,  from  the  Sunday  pancakes-  Mother  of  God,  how  you  shiver  in  these  heat-ribbons!  Our  cakes  rise  to  you  and  in  the  trance  of  His  birthing  you  hide.  Something  like  that.  Better  than  that,  more  remarkable.  Her  Polish  was  very  dense.  You  had  to  open  it  out  like  a  fan  to  get  at  all  the  meanings.  She  was  exception-  ally  modest,  but  she  was  not  afraid  to  call  herself  a  symbolist.  I  know  you  won't  blame  me  for  going  astray  with  such  tales.  After  all,  you're  always  prodding  me  for  these  old  memo-  ries.  If  not  for  you,  I  would  have  buried  them  all,  to  satisfyStella.  Stella  [REDACTED]!  She  thinks  there's  such  a  thing  as  the  New  World.  Finally-at  last,  at  last-she  sur-  renders  this  precious  vestige  of  your  sacred  babyhood.  Here  it  is  in  a  box  right  next  to  me  as  I  write.  She  didn't  take  the  trouble  to  send  it  by  registered  mail!  Even  though  I  told  her  and  told  her.  I've  thrown  out  the  wrapping  paper,  and  the  lid  is  plastered  down  with  lots  of  Scotch  Tape.  I'm  not  hurrying  to  open  it.  At  first  my  hunger  was  unrestrained  and  I  couldn't  wait,  but  noth-  ing  is  nice  now.  I'm  saving  you;  I  want  to  be  serene.  In  a  state  of  agitation  one  doesn't  split  open  a  diamond.  Stella  says  1  make  a  relic  of  you.  She  has  no  heart.  It  would  shock  you  if  I  told  you  even  one  of  the  horrible  games  I'm  made  to  play  with  her.  To  soothe  her  dementia,  to  keep  her  quiet,  I  pretend  you  died.  Yes!  It's  true!  There's  nothing,  however  crazy,  I  wouldn't  say  to  her  to  tie  up  her  tongue.  She  slanders.  Everywhere  there  are  slan-  ders,  and  sometimes-my  bright  lips,  my  darling!-the  slanders  touch  even  you.  My  purity,  my  snow  queen!  I'm  ashamed  to  give  an  example.  Por-  nography.  What  Stella,  that  pornographer,  " b"has  made  of  your  father.  She  thieves  all  the  truth,  she  robs  it,  she  steals  it,  the  robbery  goes  unpunished.  She  lies,  and  it's  the  lying  that's  rewarded.  The  New  World!  That's  why  I  smashed  up  my  store!  Because  here  they  make  up  lying  theories.  Even  the  professors-they  take  human  beings  for  specimens.  In  [REDACTED]  there  used  to  be  justice;  here  they  have  social  theories.  Their  system  inherits  almostnothing  from  the  Romans,  that's  why.  Is  it  a  wonder  that  the  lawyers  are  no  better  than  scav-  engers  who  feed  on  the  droppings  of  thieves  and  liars?  'Thank  God  you  fol-  lowed  your  grandfather's  bent  and  studied  philosophy  and  not  law.  Take  my  word  for  it,  Magda,  your  fa-  ther  and  I  had  the  most  ordinary  lives-by  &quot;ordinary&quot;  I  mean  respectable,  gentle,  cul-  tivated.  Reliable  people  of  refined  reputa-  tion.  His  name  was  Andrzej.  Our  families  had  status.  Your  father  was  the  son  of  my  mother's  closest  friend.  She  was  a  con-  verted  Jew  married  to  a  Gentile:  you  can  be  a  Jew  if  you  like,  or  a  Gentile,  it's  up  to  you.  You  have  a  legacy  of  choice,  and  they  say  choice  is  the  only  true  freedom.  We  were  engaged  to  be  married.  We  would  havebeen  married.  Stella's  accusations  are  all  Stella's  own  excretion.  Your  father  was  nota  German.  I  was  forced  by  a  German,  it's  true,  and  more  than  once,  but  I  was  too  sick  to  conceive.  Stella  has  a  naturally  pornographic  mind,  she  can't  resist  dream-  ing  up  a  dirty  sire  for  you,  an  S.S.  man!  Stella  was  with  me  the  whole  time,  she  knows  just  what  I  know.  They  never  put  me  in  their  brothel  either.  Never  believe  this,  my  lioness,  my  snow  queen!  No  lies  come  out  of  me  to  you.  You  are  pure.  A  mother  is  the  source  of  consciousness,  of  conscience,  the  ground  of  being,  as  philoso-  phers  say.  I  have  no  falsehoods  for  you.  Otherwise  I  don't  deny  some  few  tricks:  the  necessary  handful.  To  those  who  don't  deserve  the  truth,  don't  give  it.  I  tell  Stella  what  it  pleases  her  to  hear.  My  child,  perished.  Perished.  She  always  wanted  it.  She  was  always  jealous  of  you.  She  has  no  heart.  Even  now  she  believes  in  1  my  loss  of  you:  and  you  a  I'  stone's  throw  from  her  _!  door  in  [REDACTED]!  Let  her  think  whatever  she  i  thinks;  her  mind  is  awry,  poor  thing;  in  me  the strength  of  your  being  consumes  my  joy.  Yellow  blossom!  Cup  of  the  sun!  What  a  curiosity  it  was  to  hold  a  pen-  nothing  but  a  small  pointed  stick,  after  all,  oozing  its  hieroglyphic  puddles:  a  pen  that  speaks,  miraculously,  Polish.  A  lock  removed  from  the  tongue.  Otherwise  the  tongue  is  chained  to  the  teeth  and  the  palate.  An  im-  mersion  into  the  liv-  ing  language:  all  at   once  this  cleanliness,  this  capacity,  this  power  to  make  a  history,  to  tell,  to  explain.  To  retrieve,  to  reprieve!  To  lie.  The  box  with  Magda's  shawl  was  still  on  the  table.  Rosa  left  it  there.  She  put  on  her  good  shoes,  a  nice  dress  (polyester,  &quot;wrinkle-free&quot;  on  the  in-  side  label);  she  arranged  her  hair,  brushed  her  teeth,  poured  mouthwash  on  the  brush,  sucked  it  up  through  the  nylon  bristles,  gargled  rapidly.  As  an  afterthought  she  changed  her  bra  and  slip;  it  meant  getting  out  of  her  dress  and  into  it  again.  Her  mouth  she  red-  dened  very  slightly  -a  smudge  of  lip-  stick  rubbed  on  with  a  finger.  Perfected,  she  mounted  the  bed  on  her  knees  and  fell  into  folds.  A  puppet,  dreaming.  Darkened  cities,  tomb-  stones,  colorless  garlands,  a  black  fire  in  a  gray  field,  brutes  forcing  the  in-  nocent,  women  with  their  mouths  stretched  and  their  arms  wild,  her  mother's  voice  calling.  After  hours  of  these  pitiless  tableaux,  it  was  late  af-  ternoon;  by  then  she  was  certain  that  whoever  put  her  underpants  in  his  pocket  was  a  criminal  capable  of  every  base  act.  Humiliation.  Degradation.  Stella's  pornography!  To  retrieve,  to  reprieve.  Nothing  in  the  elevator;  in  the  lobby,  nothing.  She  kept  her  head  down.  Nothing  white  glimmered  up.  In  the  street  a  neon  dusk  was  already  blinking.  Gritty  mixture  of  heat  and  toiling  dust.  Cars  shot  by  like  large  bees.  It  was  too  early  for  head-  lights:  in  the  lower  sky  two  strange  competing  lamps-a  scarlet  sun,  round  and  brilliant  as  a  blooded  egg  yolk;  a  silk-white  moon,  gray-veined  with  mountain  ranges.  These  hung  simul-  taneously  at  either  end  of  the  long  road.  The  whole  day's  burning  struck  upward  like  a  moving  weight  from  the  sidewalk.  Rosa's  nostrils  and  lungs  were  cautious:  burning  molasses  air.  Her  underpants  were  not  in  the  road.  IN  [REDACTED]  at  night  no  one  stays  in-  doors.  The  streets  are  clogged  with  wanderers  and  watchers;  every-  one  in  search,  bedouins  with  no  fixed  paths.  The  foolish  [REDACTED]  rains  spray  down-so  light,  so  brief  and  fickle,  no  one  pays  attention.  Neon  alpha-  bets,  designs,  pictures,  flashing  un-  diminished  right  through  the  sudden  small  rain.  A  quick  lick  of  lightning  above  one  of  the  balconied  hotels.  Rosa  walked.  Much  Yiddish.  Cara-  vans  of  slow  old  couples,  linked  at  the  elbows,  winding  down  to  the  cool  of  the  beaches.  The  sand  never  at  rest,  always  churning,  always  inhab-  ited;  copulation  under  blankets  at  night,  beneath  neon-radiant  low  hori-  zons,  She  had  never  been  near  the  beach;  why  should  her  un-  derpants  be  lost  in  the  sand?  On  the  sidewalk  in  front  of  the  Koruimns  Kamro,  noth-  ing.  Shining  hungry  smell  of  boiled  pota-  toes  in  sour  cream.  The  pants  were  not  necessarily  in  Per-  sky's  pocket.  Dented  garbage  barrels,  empty  near  the  curb.  Pants  already  smoldering  in  an  ashheap,  among  blackened  tomato  cans,  kitchen  scrapings,  con-  flagrations  of  old  magazines.  Or:  a  sim-  ple  omission,  an  acci-  dent,  never  transferred  from  the  washing  ma-  chine  to  the  dryer.  Or,  if  transferred,  never  removed.  Over-  looked.  Persky  un-  blemished.  The  laun-  dromat  was  locked  up  for  the  night,  with  a  " b"metal  accordion  gate  stretchedacross  the  door  and  windows.  What  maraud-  ers  would  seek  out  caldrons,  giant  wash-  tubs?  Property  misleads,  brings  false  perspectives.  The  power  to  smash  her  own.  A  kind  of  suicide.  Shehad  mur-  dered  her  store  with  her  own  hands.  She  cared  more  for  a  missing  pair  of  underpants,  lost  laundry,  than  for  busi-  ness.  She  was  ashamed;  she  felt  exposed.  What  was  her  store?  A  cave  of  junk.  On  the  corner  across  the  street  from  the  laundromat  a  narrow  newspaper  store,  no  larger  than  a  stall.  Persky  might  have  bought  his  paper  there.  Suppose  later  in  the  day  he  had  come  down  for  an  afternoon  paper,  her  pants  inhis  pocket,  and  dropped  them?  Mob  of  [REDACTED]  accents.  It  was  a  little  place,  not  air-conditioned.  &quot;Lady?  You're  looking  for  some-  thing?&quot;  A  newspaper?  Rosa  had  enough  of  the  world.  &quot;Look,  it's  like  sardines  in  here.  Buy  something  or  go  out.&quot;  &quot;My  store  used  to  be  six  times  the  size  of  this  place,&quot;  Rosa  said.  &quot;So  go  to  your  store.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  have  a  store.&quot;  She  recon-  sidered.  If  someone  wanted  to  hide-  to  hide,  not  destroy-a  pairof  under-  pants,  wherewould  he  put  them?  Un-  der  the  sand.  Rolled  up  and  buried.  She  thought  what  a  weight  of  sand  would  feel  like  in  the  crotch  of  her  pants,  wet  heavy  sand,  still  hot  from  the  day.  In  her  room  it  was  hot,  hot  all  night.  No  air.  In  [REDACTED]  there  was  no  air,  only  this  syrup  seeping  into  the  esoph-  agus.  Rosa  walked;  she  saw  everything,  but  as  if  out  of  invention,  out  of  imagination;  she  was  unconnected  to  any-  thing.  She  came  to  a  gate;  a  mottled  beach  spread  behind  it.  It  be-  longed  to  one  of  the  big  hotels.  The  latch  opened.  At  the  edge  of  the  waves  you  could  look  back  and  see  black  crenellated  forms  stretching  all  along  the  shore.  In  the  dark,  in  silhouette,  the  towered  hotel  roofs  held  up  their  merciless  teeth.  Impos-  sible  that  any  architect  pleasurably  dreamed  these  teeth.  The  sand  was  only  now  beginning  to  cool.  Across  the  water  the  skybreathed  a  starless  black;  behind  her,  where  the  hotels  bit  down  on  the  city,  a  dusty  glow  of  brownish  red  lowered.  Mud  clouds.  The  sand  was  littered  with  bodies.  Photograph  of  Pompeii:  prone  in  the  volcanic  ash,.  Her  pants  were  under  the  sand;  or  else  packed  hard  with  sand,  like  a  piece  of  torso,  a  broken  statue,  the  human  groin  de-  tached,  the  whole  soul  gone,  only  the  loins  left  for  kicking  by  strangers.  She  took  off  her  good  shoes  to  save  them  and  nearly  stepped  on  the  sweated  facesof  two  lovers  plugged  into  a  kiss.  A  pair  of  water  animals  in  suction.  The  same  everywhere,  along  the  rim  of  every  continent,  this  gurgling,  foaming,  trickling.  A  true  smasher,  a  woman  whose  underpants  have  been  stolen,  a  woman  who  has  murdered  her  business  with  her  own  hands,  would  know  how  to  step  cleanly  into  the  sea.  A  horizontal  tunnel.  You  can  fall  into  its  pulljust  by  entering  it  upright.  How  simple  the  night  sea;  only  the  sand  is  unpredictable,  with  its  hundred  burrowings,  its  thousand  buryings.  When  she  came  back  to  the  gate,  the  latch  would  not  budge.  A  cunning  design,  it  trapped  the  trespasser.  She  gazed  up,  and  thought  of  climbing;  but  there  was  barbed  wire  on  top.  So  many  double  mounds  in  the  sand.  It  was  a  question  of  choosing  a  likely  sentinel:  someone  who  would  let  her  out.  She  went  back  down  onto  the  beach  again  and  tapped  a  body  with  the  tip  of  her  dangling  shoe.  The  body  jerked  as  if  shot:  it  scrambled  up.  &quot;Mister?  You  know  how  to  get  out?&quot;  &quot;Room  key  does  it,&quot;  said  the  second  body,  still  flat  in  the  sand.  It  was  a  man.  They  were  both  men,  slim  and  coated  with  sand;  naked.  The  one  ly-  ing  flat-she  could  see  what  part  of  himwas  swollen.  &quot;I'm  not  from  this  hotel,&quot;  Rosa  said.  &quot;Then  you're  not  allowed  here.  This  is  a  private  beach.&quot;  &quot;Can  you  let  me  out?&quot;  &quot;Lady,  please.  Just  buzz  off,&quot;  the  man  in  the  sand  said.  &quot;I  can't  get  out,&quot;  Rosa  pleaded.  The  manwho  was  standing  laughed.  Rosa  persisted,  &quot;If  you  have  a  key-&quot;  &quot;Believe  me,  lady,  not  for  you&quot;-  muffled  from  below.  She  understood.  Sexual  mockery.  &quot;Sodom!&quot;  she  hissed,  and  stumbled  away.  Behind  her  their  laughter.  They  hated  women.  Or  else  they  saw  she  was  a  Jew;  theyhated  Jews;  but  no,  she  had  noticed  the  circumcision,  like  a  jon-  quil,  in  the  dim  sand.  Her  wrists  were  trem-  bling.  To  be  locked  be-  hind  barbed  wire!  No  one  knew  who  she  was;  what  had  happened  to  her;  where  she  came  from.  Their  gates,  the  terrible  ruse  of  their  keys,  wire  brambles,  men  lying  with  men  ...  She  was  afraid  to  approach  any  of  the  other  mounds.  No  one  to  help.  Persecutors.  In  the  morning  they  would  ar-  rest  her.  She  put  on  her  shoes  again,  and  walked  along  the  cement  path  that  fol-  lowed  the  fence.  It  led  her  to  light;  voices  of  black  men.  A  window.  Vast  deep  odors:  kitchen  ex-  haust,  fans  stirring  soup  smells  out  into  the  weeds.  A  door  wedged  open  by  a  milk-can  lid.  Acres  of  counters,  stoves,  steamers,  refrigerators,  percolators,  bins,  basins.  The  kitchen  " b"of  a  castle.  She  fled  past  the  black  cooks  in  their  meat-blooded  aprons,  through  a  short  corridor;  a  dead  end  facing  an  elevator.  She  pushed  the  button  and  waited.  The  kitchen  peo-  ple  had  seen  her;  would  they  pursue?  Sheheard  their  yells,  but  it  was  noth-  ing  to  do  with  her-they  were  calling  Thursday,  Thursday.  On  Thursday  no  more  new  potatoes.  A  kind  of  emer-  gency  maybe.  The  elevator  took  her  to  the  main  floor,  to  the  lobby;  she  emerged,  free.  THIS  lobby  was  the  hall  of  a  pal-  ace.  In  the  middle  a  real  foun-  tain.  Water  springing  out  of  the  mouths  of  emerald-green  dolphins.  Skirted  cherubs,  gilded.  A  winged  mermaid  spilling  gold  flowers  out  of  a  gold  pitcher.  Lofty  plants-a  forest-  palms  sprayed  dark  blue  and  silver  and  gold,  leafing  out  of  masses  of  green  marble  vessels  at  the  lip  of  the  foun-  tain.  The  water  flowed  into  a  marble  channel,a  little  indoor  brook.  A  royal  carpet  for  miles  around,  woven  with  crowned  birds.  Well-dressed  men  and  women  sat  in  lion-clawed  gold  thrones,  smoking.  A  golden  babble.  How  happy  Stella  would  be,  to  stroll  in  a  place  like  this!  Rosa  kept  close  to  the  walls.  She  saw  a  man  in  a  green  uniform.  &quot;'The  manager,&quot;  she  croaked.  &quot;I  have  to  tell  him  something.&quot;  &quot;Office  is  over  there.&quot;  He  shrugged  toward  a  mahogany  desk  behind  a  glass  wall.  The  manager,  wearing  a  red  wig,  wasmaking  a  serious  mark  on  a  crested  letterhead.  Persky,  too,  had  a  red  wig.  [REDACTED]  was  glutted  with  fake  fire,  burning  false  hair!  Ev-  eryone  a  piece  of  impostor.  &quot;Ma'am?&quot;  the  manager  said.  &quot;Mister,  you  gotbarbed  wire  by  your  beach.&quot;  &quot;Are  you  a  guest  here?&quot;  &quot;I'm  someplace  else.&quot;  &quot;'Then  it's  none  of  your  business,  is  f&quot;  &quot;You  got  barbed  wire.&quot;  &quot;It  keeps  out  the  riffraff.&quot;  &quot;In  [REDACTED]  it's  no  place  for  barbed  wire  on  top  of  fences.&quot;  The  manager  left  off  making  his  serious  marks.  &quot;Will  you  leave?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Will  you  please  just  leave?&quot;  &quot;Only  Nazis  catch  innocent  people  behind  barbed  wire,&quot;  Rosa  said.  The  red  wig  dipped.  &quot;My  name  is  Finkelstein.&quot;  &quot;'Then  you  should  know  better!&quot;  &quot;Listen,  walk  out  of  here  if  you  know  what's  good  for  you.&quot;  &quot;Where  were  you  when  we  was  there?&quot;  " b"&quot;Get  out.  So  far  I'm  asking  nicely.  Please  get  out.&quot;  &quot;Dancing  in  the  pool  in  the  lobby,  that's  where.  Eat  your  barbed  wire,  Mr.  Finkelstein,  chew  it  and  choke  on  it!&quot;  &quot;Go  home,&quot;  Finkelstein  said.  &quot;You  got  Sodom  and  Gomorrah  in  your  back  yard!  You  got  gays  and  you  got  barbed  wire!&quot;  'You  were  trespassing  on  our  beach,&quot;  the  manager  said.  &quot;You  want  me  to  call  the  police?  Better  leave  before.  Some  important  guests  have  come  in,  we  can't  tolerate  the  noise  and  I  can't  spare  the  time  for  this.&quot;  &quot;'They  write  me  letters  all  the  time,  your  important  guests.  Conventions,&quot;  Rosa  scoffed.  &quot;Clinical  Social  Pathol-  ogy,  right?  You  got  a  Dr.  Tree  stay-  ing?&quot;  &quot;Please  go,&quot;  Finkelstein  said.  &quot;Come  on,  you  got  a  Dr.  Tree?  No?  I'lltell  you,  if  not  today  you'll  get  him  later  on,  he's  on  the  way.  He's  coming  to  investigate  specimens.  I'm  the  important  one!  It's  me  he's  inter-  viewing,  Finkelstein,  not  you!  I'm  the  study!&quot;  The  red  wig  dipped  again.  &quot;Aha!&quot;  Rosa  cried.  &quot;I  see  you  got  Tree!  You  got  a  wholebunch  of  Trees!&quot;  &quot;We  protect  the  privacy  of  our  guests.&quot;  &quot;With  barbed  wire  you  protect.  It's  Tree,  yes?  I  can  see  I'm  right!  It's  Tree!  You  got  Tree  staying  here,  right?  Admit  you  got  Tree!  Finkel-  stein,  you  S.S.,  admit  it!&quot;  The  manager  stood  up.  &quot;Out,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Get  out  now.  Immediately.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Don't  worry,  it's  all  right.  It's  my  business  to  keep  away.  Tree  I  don't  need.  With  Trees  I  had  enough,  you  don't  have  to  concern  yourself-*&quot;  &quot;Leave,&quot;  said  the  red  wig.  &quot;A  shame,&quot;  Rosa  said,  &quot;a  Finkel-  stein  like  you.&quot;  Irradiated,  trium-  phant,  cleansed,  Rosa  marched  through  the  emerald  glitter,  toward  the  illuminated  marquee  in  front.  Ho-  TEL  Maris  LoUIsE,  in  green  neon.  A  doorman  like  a  British  admiral,  gold  braid  cascading  from  his  shoulders.  They  had  trapped  her,  nearly  caught  her;  but  she  knew  how  to  escape.  Speak  up,  yell.  The  same  way  she  saved  Stella,  when  they  were  pressing  to  take  her  on  the  boat  to  [REDACTED].  She  had  no  fear  of  Jews;  sometimes  she  had-it  came  from  her  mother,  her  father-a  certain  contempt.  The  [REDACTED]  swarm,  shut  of  from  the  grandeur  of  the  true  world.  Neighbor-  hoods  of  a  particular  kind.  Persky  and" b" Finkelstein.  &quot;Their&quot;  synagogues  balconies  for  the  women.  Primitive.  Her  own  home,  her  own  upbringing-  how  she  had  fallen.  A  loathsome  tale  of  folk  sorcery:nobility  turned  into  a  small  dun  rodent.  Cracking  her  teeth  on  the  poison  of  English.  Here  they  were  shallow,  they  knew  nothing.  Light-minded.  Stella  looking,  on  prin-  ciple,  to  be  light-minded.  Blue  stripes,  barbed  wire,  men  embracing  men  ...  whatever  was  dangerous  and  repugnant  they  made  prevalent,  frivo-  lous.  Lost.  Lost.  Nowhere.  All  of  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  empty;  the  sand,  empty.  The  whole  wild  hot  neon  night  city:  an  empty  search.  In  someone's  pocket.  Persky  was  waiting  for  her.  He  sat  in  the  torn  brown  plastic  wing  chair  near  the  reception  desk,  one  leg  over  the  side,  reading  a  newspaper.  He  saw  her  come  in  and  jumped  up.  He  wore  onlya  shirt  and  pants;  no  tie,  no  jacket.  Informal.  &quot;[REDACTED],  Rosa!&quot;  Rosa  said,  &quot;How  come  you're  here?&quot;  &quot;Where  you  been  the  whole  night?  I'm  sitting  hours.&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  tell  you  where  I  stay,&quot;  Rosa  accused.  &quot;I  looked  in  the  telephone  book.&quot;  &quot;My  phone's  disconnected,  I  don't  know  nobody.  My  niece,  she  writes,  she  saves  on  long-distance.&quot;  &quot;All  right.  You  want  the  truth?  This  morning  I  followed  you,  that's  all.  A  simple  walk  from  my  place.  I  sneaked  in  the  streets  behind  you.  I  found  out  where  you  stay,  here  I  am.&quot;  &quot;Very  nice,&quot;  Rosa  said.  &quot;You  don't  like  it?&quot;  She  wanted  to  tell  him  he  was  under  suspicion;  he  owed  her  a  look  in  his  jacket  pocket.  A  self-confessed  sneak  who  follows  women.  If  not  his  jacket,  his  pants.  But  it  wasn't  possible  to  say  a  thing  like  this.  Her  pants  in  his  pants.  Instead  she  said,  &quot;W  hat  do  you  want?&quot;  He  flashed  his  teeth.  &quot;A  date.&quot;  &quot;'You're  a  married  man.&quot;  &quot;A  married  man  what  ain't  got  a  wife.&quot;  &quot;You  got  one.&quot;  &quot;In  a  manner  of  speaking.  She's  crazy.&quot;  Rosa  said,  &quot;I'm  crazy,  too.&quot;  &quot;Who  says  so?&quot;  &quot;My  niece.&quot;  &quot;What  does  a  stranger  know?&quot;  &quot;A  niece  isn't  a  stranger.&quot;  &quot;My  own  son  is  a  stranger.  A  niece  " b"definitely.  Come  on,  I  got  my  car  nearby.  Air-conditioned,  we'll  take  a  spin.&quot;  &quot;You're  not  a  kid,  I'm  not  a  kid,&quot;  Rosa  said.  You  can't  prove  it  by  me,&quot;  Persky  said.  &quot;I'm  a  serious  person,&quot;  Rosa  said.  &quot;It  isn't  my  kind  of  life,  to  run  around  noplace.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Who  said  noplace?  I  got  a  place  in  mind.&quot;  He  reflected.  &quot;My  Senior  Citi-  zens.  Very  nice  pinochle.&quot;  &quot;Not  interested,&quot;  Rosa  said.  &quot;I  don't  need  new  people.&quot;  &quot;Then  a  movie.  You  don't  like  new  ones,  we'll  find  dead  ones.  Clark  Ga-  ble.  Jean  Harlow.&quot;  &quot;Not  interested.&quot;  &quot;A  rideto  the  beach.  A  walk  on  the  shore,  how  about  it?&quot;  &quot;I  already  did  it,&quot;  Rosa  said.  &quot;When?&quot;  &quot;Tonight.  Just  now.&quot;  &quot;Alone?&quot;  Rosa  said,  &quot;I  was  looking  for  some-  thing  I  lost.&quot;  &quot;Poor  [REDACTED],  what  did  you  lose?&quot;  &quot;My  life.&quot;  She  was  all  at  once  not  ashamed  to  say  this  outright.  Because  of  the  missing  underwear  she  had  no  dig-  nity  before  him.  She  considered  Per-  sky's  life:  how  trivial  it  must  always  have  been:  buttons,  himself  no  more  significant  than  a  button.  It  was  plain  he  took  her  to  be  another  button  like  himself,  battered  now  and  out  of  fashion,  rolled  into  [REDACTED].  All  of  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  a  box  for  useless  but-  tons!  &quot;T  his  means  you're  tired.  Tell  you  what,&quot;  Persky  said.  &quot;Invite  me  up-  stairs.  A  cup  of  tea.  We'll  make  a  conversation.  You'll  see,  I  got  other  ideas  up  my  sleeve-tomorrow  we'll  go  someplace  and  you'll  like  it.&quot;  HER  room  was  miraculously  ready:  tidy,  clarified.  It  was  sorted  out:  you  could  see  where  the  bed  ended  and  the  table  commenced.  Sometimes  it  was  all  one  jumble,  a  highway  of  con-  fusion.  Destiny  had  clarified  her  room  just  in  time  for  a  visitor.  She  started  the  tea.  Persky  put  his  newspaper  down  on  the  table,  and  on  top  of  it  an  oily  paper  bag.  &quot;Crullers!&quot;  he  an-  nounced.  &quot;I  bought  them  to  eat  in  the  car,  but  this  is  very  nice,  cozy.  You  got  a  cozy  place,  [REDACTED].&quot;  &quot;Cramped,&quot;  Rosa  said.  &quot;I  work  from  a  different  theory.  For  everything  there's  a  bad  way  of  describing,  also  a  good  way.  You  pick  " b"the  good  way,  you  get  along  better.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  like  to  give  myself  lies,&quot;  Rosa  said.  &quot;Life  is  short,  we  all  got  to  lie.  Tell  me,  you  got  paper  napkins?  Never  mind,  who  needs  them.  Three  cups!  That's  a  lucky  thing,  usually  when  a  person  lives  alone  they  don't  keep  so  many.  Look,  vanilla  icing,  choco-  late  icing.  Two  plain  also.  You  prefer  with  icing  or  plain?  Such  fine  tea  bags,  they  got  style.  Now,  you  see,  [REDACTED]?  Everything's  nice!&quot;  He  had  set  the  table.  To  Rosa  this  made  the  corner  of  the  room  look  new,  as  if  she  had  never  seen  it  before.  &quot;Don't  let  the  tea  cool  off.  Remember  what  I  told  you  this  morning,  the  hotter  the  better,&quot;  Persky  said;  he  clanged  his  spoon  happily.  &quot;Here,  let's  make  more  elbowroom-&quot;  His  hand,  greasy  from  the  crullers,  was  on  Magda's  box.  &quot;Don't  touch!&quot;  \xc2\xabWhat's  the  matter?  It's  something  alive  in  there?  A  bomb?  A  rabbit?  It's  squashable?  No,  I  got  it-a  lady's  hat!&quot;  Rosa  hugged  the  box;  she  was  feel-  ing  foolish,  trivial.  Everything  was  frivolous  here,  even  the  deepest  prop-  erty  of  being.  It  seemed  to  her  some-  onehad  cut  out  her  life  organs  and  given  them  to  her  to  hold.  She  walked  the  little  distance  to  the  bed-three  steps-and  set  the  box  down  against  the  pillow.  When  she  turned  around,  Persky's  teeth  were  persisting  in  their  independent  bliss.  &quot;The  fact  is,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;I  didn't  expect  nothing  from  you  tonight.  You  got  to  work  things  through,  I  can  see  that.  You  remind  me  of  my  son.  Even  to  get  a  cup  of  tea  from  you  is  worth  something,  I  could  do  worse.  Tomor-  row  we'll  have  a  real  appointment.  I'm  not  inquiring,  I'm  not  requesting.  I'll  be  the  boss,  what  do  you  say?&quot;  Rosa  sat.  &quot;I'm  thinking,  I  should  get  out  and  go  back  to  [REDACTED]  to  my  niece-&quot;  &quot;Not  tomorrow.  Day  after  tomor-  row  you'll  change  your  life,  and  to-  61              &quot;Look  at  me.  morrow  you'll  come  with  me.  We  got  six  meetings  to  pick  from.&quot;  Rosa  said  doubtfully,  &quot;Meetings?&quot;  \xc2\xabSpeakers.  Lectures  for  fancy  people  like  yourself.  Something  higher  than  pinochle.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;I  don't  play,&quot;  Rosa  acknowledged.  Persky  looked  around.  &quot;I  don't  see  no  books  neither.  You  want  me  to  drive  you  to  the  library?&quot;  A  thread  of  gratitude  pulled  in  her  throat.  He  almost  understood  what  she  was:  no  ordinary  button.  &quot;I  read  only  Polish,&quot;  she  told  him.  &quot;I  don't  like  to  read  in  English.  For  literature  you  need  a  mother  tongue.&quot;  &quot;Literature,  my  my.  Polish  ain't  a  dime  a  dozen.  It  don't  grow  on  trees  neither.  [REDACTED],  you  should  adjust.  Get  used  to  it!&quot;  She  was  wary:  &quot;I'm  used  to  every-  thing.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Not  to  being  a  regular  person.&quot;  &quot;My  niece  Stella,&quot;  Rosa  slowly  gave  out,  &quot;says  that  in  [REDACTED]  cats  have  nine  lives,  but  we-we're  less  than  cats,  so  we  got  three.  The  life  before,  the  life  during,  the  life  after.&quot;  She  saw  that  Persky  did  not  follow.  She  said,  &quot;The  life  after  is  now.  The  life  before  is  our  reel  life,  at  home,  where  we  was  born.&quot;  &quot;And  during?&quot;  &quot;This  was  Hitler. &quot;Poor  [REDACTED],&quot;  Persky  said.  &quot;'You  wasn't  there.  From  the  mov-  ies  you  know  it.&quot;  She  recognized  that  she  had  shamed  him;  she  had  long  ago  discovered  this  power  to  shame.  &quot;Af-  ter,  after,  that's  all  Stella  cares.  For  me  there's  one  time  only,  there's  no  after.&quot;  Persky  speculated.  &quot;You  want  ev-  erything  the  way  it  was  before.&quot;  &quot;No,  no,  no,&quot;  Rosa  said.  &quot;It  can't  be.  I  don't  believe  in  Stella's  cats.  Be-  fore  is  a  dream.  After  is  a  joke.  Only  during  stays.  And  to  call  it  a  life  is  a  lie.&quot;  &quot;But  it's  over,&quot;  Persky  said.  &quot;You  went  through  it,  now  you  owe  yourself  something.&quot;  &quot;This  is  how  Stella  talks.  Stella-&quot;  Rosa  halted;  then  she  came  on  the  word.  &quot;Stella  is  self-indulgent.  She  wants  to  wipe  out  memory.&quot;  'Sometimes  a  little  forgetting  is  necessary,&quot;  Persky  said,  &quot;if  you  want  to  get  something  out  of  life.&quot;  &quot;Get  something!  Get  what?&quot;  &quot;You  ain't  in  a  camp.  It's  finished.  Long  ago  it's  finished.  Look  around,  you'll  see  human  beings.&quot;  &quot;What  I  see,&quot;  Rosa  said,  &quot;is  blood-  suckers.&quot;  Persky  hesitated.  &quot;Over  there,  they  took  your  family?&quot;  Rosa  held  up  all  the  fingers  of  her  " b"two  hands.  Then  she  said,  &quot;I'm  left.  Stella's  left.&quot;  She  wondered  if  she  dared  to  tell  him  more.  The  box  on  the  bed.  &quot;Out  ofso  many,  three.&quot;  Persky  asked,  &quot;Three?&quot;  &quot;Evidence,&quot;  Rosa  said  briskly.  &quot;I  can  show  you.&quot;  She  raised  the  box.  She  felt  like  a  climber  on  the  margin  of  a  precipice.  &quot;Wipe  your  hands.&quot;  Persky  obeyed.  He  rubbed  the  last  of  the  cruller  crumbs  on  his  shirt  front.  &quot;Unpack  and  look  in.  Go  ahead,  lift  up  what's  inside.&quot;  She  did  not  falter.  What  her  own  hands  longed  to  do  she  was  yielding  to  a  stranger,  a  man  with  pockets;  she  knew  why.  To  prove  herself  pure:  a  Madonna.  Supposing  he  had  vile  old  man's  thoughts:  let  him  see  her  with  the  eye  of  truth.  A  mother.  But  Persky  said,  &quot;How  do  you  count  three-&quot;  &quot;Look  for  yourself.&quot;  He  took  the  cover  off  and  reached  into  the  box  and  drew  out  a  sheet  of  paper  and  began  to  skim  it.  &quot;*T  hat  has  to  be  from  Stella.  Throw  it  out,  never  mind.  More  scolding,  how  I'm  a  freak-&quot;  &quot;[REDACTED],  you're  a  regular  member  of  the  intelligentsia!  This  is  quite  some  reading  matter.  It  ain't  in  Polish  neither.&quot;  His  teeth  danced.  &quot;On  such  a  sad  subject,  allow  me  a  little  joke.  Who  came  to  556e6974656420537461746573was  one,  your  niece  Stella,  [REDACTED],  Rosa,  this  makes  two;  and  [REDACTED]'s  brain-three!&quot;  Rosa  stared.  &quot;I'm  a  mother,  Mr.  Persky,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;the  same  as  your  wife,  no  different.&quot;  She  received  the  paper  between  burning  palms.  &quot;Have  some  respect,&quot;  she  commanded  thebe-  wildered  glitter  of  his  plastic  grin.  And  read:  Dear  Ms.  Lusi:  I  am  taking  the  liberty  of  sending  you,  as  a  token  of  my  good  faith,  this  valuable  study  by  Hidgeson  (whom,  you  may  recall,  I  mentioned  in  passing  in  my  initial  ex-  planatory  letter),  which  more  or  less  lays  the  ethological  groundwork  for  our  cur-  rent  structures.  I  feel  certain  that-in  preparation  for  our  talks-you  will  want  to  take  a  look  at  it.  A  great  deal  of  our  work  has  been  built  on  these  phylogenetic  insights.  You  may  find  some  of  the  lan-  guage  a  bit  too  technical;  nevertheless  I  believe  that  simply  having  this  volume  in  your  possession  will  go  far  toward  reassur-  ing  you  concerning  the  professionalism  of  our  endeavors,  and  of  your  potential  con-  tribution  toward  them.  Of  special  interest,  perhaps,  is  Chapter  Six,  entitled  &quot;Defensive  Group  Formation:  The  Way  of  the  Baboons.&quot;  Gratefully  in  advance,  James  W.  Trer,  PH.D.  Persky  said,  &quot;Believe  me,  I  could  smell  with  only  one  glance  it  wasn't  from  Stella.&quot;  She  saw  that  he  was  holding  the  thing  he  had  taken  out  of  the  box.  &quot;Give  me  that,&quot;  she  ordered.  He  recited,  &quot;By  A.  R.  Hidgeson.  And  listento  the  title,  something  fancy-'Repressed  Animation:  A  The-  ory  of  the  Biological  Ground  of  Sur-  vival.&quot;  I  told  you  fancy!  This  isn't  what  you  wanted?&quot;  &quot;Give  it  to  me.&quot;  &quot;You  didn't  want?  Stella  sent  you  what  you  didn't  want?&quot;  &quot;Stella  sent!&quot;  She  tore  the  book  from  him-it  was  heavier  than  she  had  guessed-and  hurled  it  at  the  ceil-  ing.  It  slammed  down  into  Persky's  half-filled  teacup.  Shards  and  droplets  flew.  &quot;The  way  I  smashed  up  my  store,  that's  how  I'll  smash  Tree!&quot;  Persky  was  watching  the  tea  drip  to  the  floor.  &quot;Tree?&quot;  &quot;Dr.  Tree!  Tree  the  bloodsucker!&quot;  &quot;Ican  see  I'm  involved  in  a  mis-  take,&quot;  Persky  said.&quot;I'll  tell  you  what,  you  eat  up  the  crullers.  You'll  feel  better  and  I'll  come  tomorrow  when  the  mistake  is  finished.&quot;  &quot;I'm  not  your  button,  Persky!  I'm  nobody's  button,  not  even  if  they  got  barbed  wire  everywhere!&quot;  &quot;Speaking  of  buttons,  I'll  go  and  push  the  elevator  button.  Tomorrow  I'll  come  back.&quot;  &quot;Barbed  wire!  You  took  my  laun-  dry,  you  think  I  don't  know  that?  Look  in  your  dirty  pockets,  you  thief  Persky!&quot;  In  the  morning,  washing  her  face-  it  was  swollen,  nightmares  like  weeds,  the  bulb  of  her  nose  pale-Rosa  found,  curled  inside  a  towel,  the  missing  un-  derwear.  HE  went  downstairs  to  the  desk;  she  talked  over  having  her  phone  reconnected.  Naturally  they  would  charge  more,  and  Stella  would  squawk.  All  the  same,  she  wanted  it.  At  the  desk  they  handed  her  a  pack-  age;  this  time  she  examined  the  wrap-  ping.  It  had  come  by  registered  mail  and  it  was  from  Stella.  It  was  not  pos-  sible  to  be  hoodwinked  again,  but  Rosa  was  shocked,  depleted,  almost  as  if  yes-  terday's  conflagration  hadn't  been  Tree  but  really  the  box  with  Magda's  shawl.  She  lifted  the  lid  of  the  box  and     looked  down  at  the  shawl;  she  was  indifferent.  Persky  too  would  have  been  indifferent.  The  colorless  cloth  lay  like  an  old  bandage;  a  discarded  sling.  For  some  reason  it  did  not  in-  stantly  restore  Magda,  as  usually  hap-  pened,  a  vivid  thwack  of  restoration,  like  an  electric  jolt.  She  was  willing  to  wait  for  the  sensation  to  surge  up  whenever  it  would.  The  shawl  had  a  faint  saliva  smell,  but  it  was  more  nearly  imagined  than  smelled.  Under  the  bed  the  telephone  vi-  brated:  first  a  sort  of  buzz,  then  a  real  ring.  Rosa  pulled  it  out.  The  Cuban's  voice  said,  &quot;Missus  [REDACTED],  you  connected  now.&quot;  Rosa  wondered  why  it  was  taking  so  long  for  Magda  to  come  alive.  Some-  times  Magda  came  alive  with  a  bril-  liant  swoop,  almost  too  quickly,  sothat  Rosa's  ribs  were  knocked  on  their  in-  sides  by  copper  hammers,  clanging  and  gonging.  The  instrument,  still  in  her  grip,  drilled  again.  Rosa  started:  it  was  as  if  she  had  squeezed  a  rubber  toy.  How  quickly  a  dead  thing  can  come  to  life!  Very  tentatively,  whispering  into  a  frond,  Rosa  said,  &quot;Hello?&quot;  It  was  a  lady  selling  frying  pans.  &quot;No,&quot;  Rosa  said,  and  dialled  Stella.  She  could  hear  that  Stella  had  been  asleep.  Her  throat  was  softened  by  a  veil.  &quot;Stella,&quot;  Rosa  said,  &quot;I'm  calling  from  my  own  room.&quot;  &quot;Who  is  this?&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Stella,  you  don't  recognize  [REDACTED];  &quot;Rosa!  Did  anything  happen?&quot;  &quot;Should  I  come  back?&quot;  &quot;My  God,&quot;  Stella  said,  &quot;is  it  an  emergency?  We  could  discuss  this  by  mail.&quot;  &quot;'You  wrote  me  I  should  come  back.&quot;  &quot;I'm  not  a  millionaire,&quot;  Stella  said.  &quot;What's  the  point  of  this  call?&quot;  &quot;Tree's  here.&quot;  &quot;Tree?  What's  that?&quot;  &quot;Doctor  Tree.  You  sent  me  his  let-  ter,  he's  after  me.  By  accident  I  found  out  where  he  stays.&quot;  &quot;No  one's  after  you,&quot;  Stella  said  grimly.  Rosa  said,  &quot;Maybe  I  should  come  back  and  open  up  again.&quot;  \xc2\xabYou're  talking  nonsense.  Y  ou  cer't.  The  store's  finished.  If  you  come  back  it  has  to  be  a  new  attitude  absolutely,  recuperated.  The  end  of  morbid-  ness.&quot;  &quot;A  very  fancy  hotel,&quot;  Rosa  said.  &quot;They  spend  like  kings.&quot;  &quot;It's  none  of  your  business.&quot;  &quot;A  Tree  is  none  of  my  business?  He  gets  rich  on  our  blood!  Prestige!  Peo-  " b"ple  respect  him!  A  professor  with  spec-  imens!  He  wrote  me  baboons!&quot;  'You're  supposed  to  be  recuper-  ating,&quot;  Stella  said;  she  was  wide  awake.  &quot;Walk  around.  Keep  out  of  trouble.  Put  on  your  bathing  suit.  Mingle.  How's  the  weather?&quot;  &quot;In  that  case  you  come  here,&quot;  Rosa  said.  &quot;Oh  my  God,  I  can't  afford  it.  You  talk  like  I'm  amillionaire.  What  would  I  do  down  there?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  like  it  alone.  A  man  stole  my  underwear.&quot;  &quot;Your  what?&quot;  Stella  squealed.  &quot;My  panties.  There's  plenty  per-  verts  in  the  streets.  Yester-  day  in  the  sand  I  saw  two  naked  men.&quot;  &quot;Rosa,&quot;  Stella  said,  &quot;if  you  want  to  come  back,  come  back.  I  wrote  you  that,  that's  all  I  said.  But  you  could  get  interested  in  something  down  there  for  a  change.  If  not  a  job,  aclub.  If  it  doesn't  cost  too  much,  I  wouldn't  mind  paying  for  a  club.  You  could  join  some  kind  of  group,  you  could  walk,  you  could  swim-&quot;  &quot;I  already  walked.&quot;  'Make  friends.&quot;  Stella's  voice  tightened.  &quot;Rosa,  this  is  long-dis-  tance.&quot;  On  that  very  phrase,  &quot;long-dis-  tance,&quot;  Magda  sprang  to  life.  Rosa  took  the  shawl  and  put  it  over  the  knob  of  the  receiver:  it  was  like  a  little  doll's  head  then.  She  kissed  it,  right  over  Stella's  admonitions.  &quot;Goodbye,&quot;  she  told  Stella,  and  didn't  care  what  it  had  cost.  The  whole  room  was  full  of  Magda:  she  was  like  a  butterfly,  inthis  corner  and  in  that  corner,  all  at  once.  Rosa  waited  tosee  what  age  Magda  was  going  to  be:  how  nice,  a  girl  of  sixteen,  girls  in  their  bloom  move  so  swiftly  that  their  blouses  and  skirts  balloon,  they  are  always  butterflies  at  sixteen.  There  was  Magda,  all  in  flower.  She  was  wearing  one  of  Rosa's  dresses  from  high  school.  Rosa  was  glad:  it  was  the  sky-colored  dress,  a  middling  blue  with  black  buttons  seemingly  made  of  round  chips  of  coal,  like  the  unlit  shards  of  stars.  Persky  could  never  have  been  acquainted  with  buttons  like  that,  they  were  so  black  and  so  sparkling;  original,  with  irreg-  ular  facets  like  bits  of  true  coal  from  a  vein  in  the  earth  or  some  other  planet.  Madga's  hair  was  still  as  yellow  as  buttercups,  and  so  slippery  and  fine  that  her  two  barrettes,  in  the  shape  of  cornets,  kept  sliding  down  toward  the  sides  of  her  chin-that  chin  which  was  the  marvel  of  her  face;  with  a     different  kind  of  chin  it  would  have  been  a  much  less  explicit  face.  The  jaw  was  ever  so  slightly  too  long,  a  deepened  oval,  so  that  her  mouth,  es-  pecially  the  lower  lip,  was  not  crowded  but  rather  made  a  definite  mark  in  the  middle  of  spaciousness.  Consequently  the  mouth  seemed  as  significant  as  a  body  arrested  in  orbit,  and  Magda's  sky-filled  eyes,  nearly  rectangular  at  the  corners,  were  like  two  obeisant  satellites.  Magda  could  be  seen  with  great  clarity.  She  had  begun  to  resem-  ble  Rosa's  father,  who  had  also  had  a  long  oval  face  anchored  by  a  posi-  tive  mouth.  Rosa  was  enraptured  by   Magda's  healthy  forearms.  She  would  have  given  every-  thing  to  set  her  before  an  easel,  to  see  whether  she  could  paint  in  watercolors;  or  to  have  her  seize  a  vio-  lin,  or  a  chess  queen;  she  knew  little  about  Magda's  mind  at  this  age,  or  whether  she  hadany  talents;     even  what  her  intelligence  tended  to-  fM  ward.  And  also  she  was  always  a  little  suspicious  of  Magda,  because  of  the  other  strain,  whatever  it  was,  that  ran  M  in  her.  Rosa  herself  was  not  truly  suspicious,  but  Stella  was,  and  that  |M  induced  perplexity  in  Rosa.  The  other  strain  was  ghostly,  even  dangerous.  It  was  as  if  the  peril  hummed  out  from  the  filaments  of  Magda's  hair,  those  narrow  bright  wires.  My  Gold,  my  Wealth,  my  Treasure,  my  Hidden  Sesame,  my  Paradise,  my  Yellow  Flower,  my  Magda!  Queen  of  Bloom  and  Blossom!  When  I  had  my  store  I  used  to  &quot;meet  the  public,&quot;  and  I  wanted  to  tell  everybody-  not  only  our  story  but  other  storiesas  well.  Nobody  knew  anything.  This  amazed  me,  that  nobody  remembered  what  happened  only  a  little  while  ago.  They  didn't  re-  member  because  they  didn't  know.  I'm  referring  to  certain  definite  facts.  The  tramcar  in  the  Ghetto,  for  instance.  You  know  they  took  the  worst  section,  a  ter-  rible  slum,  and  they  built  a  wall  around  it.  It  was  a  regular  city  neighborhood,  with  .  rotting  old  tenements.  They  pushed  in  half  a  million  people,  more  than  double  the  number  there  used  to  be  in  that  place.  Three  families,  including  all  their  children  and  old  folks,  into  one  apartment.  Can  you  imagine  a  family  like  us-my  father  who  had  been  the  director-general  of  the  Bank  of  [REDACTED],  my  sheltered  mother,  almost  Japanese  in  her  shyness  and  refinement,  my  two  young  brothers,  my  older  brother,  and  me-all  of  us,  who  had  lived  in  a  tall  house  with  four  floors  and  a  glorious  attic  (you  could  touch  thetop  of  the  houseby  sticking  your  arm  far  out  its  window;  it  was  like  pulling  the  whole  green  ribbon  of  summer  indoors)  confining  us  with  teeming  Mockowiczes  and  Rabi-  nowiczes  and  Perskys  and  Finkelsteins,  with  all  their  bad-smelling  grandfathers  and  their  hordes  of  feeble  children!  The" b"children  were  half  dead,  always  sitting  on  boxes  in  tatters  with  such  sick  eyes,  pus  on  the  lids  and  the  pupils  too  wildly  lit  up.  All  these  families  used  up  their  energies  with  walking  up  and  down,  and  bowing,  and  shaking  and  quaking  over  old  rags  of  prayer  books,  and  their  children  sat  on  the  boxes  and  yelled  prayers,  too.  We  thought  they  didn't  know  how  to  organize  them-  selves  in  adversity,  and,  besides  that,  we  were  furious:  because  the  same  sort  of  adversity  was  happening  to  us-my  father  was  a  person  of  real  importance,  and  my  tall  mother  had  so  much  delicacy  and  dig-  nity  that  people  would  bow  automatically,  even  before  they  knew  who  she  was.  So  we  were  furious  in  every  direction,  but  most  immediately  we  were  furious  because  we  had  to  be  billeted  with  such  a  class,  with  these  old  Jew  peasants  worn  out  from  their  rituals  and  superstitions,  phylacteries  on  their  foreheads  sticking  up  so  stupidly,  like  unicorn  horns,  every  morning.  And  in  the  most  repulsive  slum,  deep  in  slops  and  vermin  and  a  toilet  not  fit  for  the  lowest  criminal.  We  were  not  of  a  background  to  show  our  fury,  of  course,  but  my  father  told  my  brothers  and  me  that  my  mother  would  not  be  able  to  live  through  it,  and  he  was  right.  In  my  store  I  didn't  tell  this  to  everyone;  who  would  have  the  patience  to  hear  it  all  out?  So  I  used  to  pick  out  one  little  thing  here,  one  little  thing  there,  for  each  cus-  tomer.  And  if  I  saw  they  were  in  a  hurry-  most  of  them  were,  after  I  began-I  would  tell  just  about  the  tramcar.  When  I  told  about  the  tramcar,  no  one  ever  understood  that  it  ran  on  tracks!  Everybody  always  thought  of  buses.  Well,  they  couldn't  tear  up  the  tracks,  they  couldn't  get  rid  of  the  ;|  overhead  electric  wire,  could  they?  The  point  is  they  couldn't  reroute  the  whole  :f  tram  system;  so,  you  know,  they  didn't.  The  tramcar  came  right  through  the  mid-  dleof  the  Ghetto.  What  they  did  was  build  a  sort  of  overhanging  pedestrian  bridge  for  the  Jews-they  couldn't  get  near  the  tramcar  to  escape  on  it  into  theother  part  of  [REDACTED].  The  other  sideof  the  wall.  The  most  astounding  thing  was  that  the  most  ordinary  streetcar,  bumping  along  on  the  most  ordinary  trolley  tracks,  and  carry-  ing  the  most  ordinary  citizens  going  from  one  section  of  [REDACTED]  to  another,  ran  straight  into  the  place  of  our  misery.  Every  day,  and  several  times  a  day,  we  had  these  witnesses.  Every  day  they  saw  us-women  with  shopping  sacks,  and  once  I  noticed  a  head  of  lettuce  sticking  up  out  of  the  top  of  a  sack.  Green  lettuce!  I  thought  my  sali-  vary  glands  would  split  with  aching  for  that  leafy  greenness.  And  girls  wearing  hats.  They  were  all  the  sort  of  plain  people  of  the  working  class  with  slovenly  speech  who  ride  tramcars,  but  they  were  consid-  ered  better  than  we,  because  no  one  re-  garded  us  as  Poles  anymore.  And  we,  my  father,  my  mother-we  had  so  many  pretty  jugs  on  the  piano  and  shining  little  tables,  replicas  of  Greek  vases,  and  one  an  actual  archeological  find  that  my  father  had  dug  up  on  a  school  vacation  inhis  teens,  on  a  trip  to  Crete-it  was  all  pieced  together,  and  the  missing  parts,  which  broke  up  the  design  of  a  warrior  with  a  javelin,  filled  in  with  reddish  clay.  And  on  the  walls,  up  and  down  the  corridors  and  along  the  stairs,  we  had  wonderful  ink  drawings,  the  black  so  black  and  miraculous,  how  it  measured  out  a  hand  and  then  the  shadow  " b"of  the  hand.  And  with  all  this-especially  our  Polish,  the  way  my  parents  enunciated  Polish  in  soft  calm  voices  with  the  most  precise  articulation,  so  that  every  syllable  struck  its  target-the  people  in  the  tram-  car  were  regarded  as  Poles-well,  they  were,  I  don't  take  it  away  from  them,  though  they  took  it  away  from  us-and  we  were  not!  They,  who  couldn't  read  one  line  of  Tuwim,  never  mind  Vergil,  and  my  father,  who  knew  nearly  the  whole  first  half  of  the  Aeneid  by  heart.  And  in  this  place  now  I  am  like  the  woman  who  held  the  lettuce  in  the  tramcar.  I  said  all  this  in  my  store,  talking  to  the  deaf.  How  I  be-  came  like  the  woman  with  the  lettuce.  Rosa  wanted  to  explain  to  Magda  still  more  about  the  jugs  and  the  draw-  ings  on  the  walls,  and  the  old  things  in  the  store,  things  that  nobody  cared  about,  broken  chairs  with  carved  birds,  long  strings  of  glass  beads,  gloves  and  wormy  muffs  abandoned  in  drawers.  But  she  was  tired  from  writing  so  much,  even  though  this  time  she  was  not  using  her  regular  pen,  she  was  writing  inside  a  blazing  flying  current,  a  terrible  beak  of  light  bleeding  out  a  kind  of  cuneiform  on  the  underside  of  her  brain.  The  drudgery  of  reminis-  cence  brought  fatigue,  she  felt  glazed,  lethargic.  And  Magda!  Already  she  was  turning  away.  Away.  The  blue  of  her  dress  was  now  only  a  speck  in  Rosa's  eye.  Magda  did  not  even  stay  to  claim  her  letter:  there  it  flickered,  un-  finished,  like  an  ember,  and  all  because  of  the  ringing  from  the  floor  near  the  bed.  Voices,  sounds,  echoes,  noise-  Magda  collapsed  at  any  stir,  fearful  as  a  phantom.  She  behaved  at  these  mo-  ments  as  if  she  were  ashamed,  and  hid  herself.  Magda,  my  beloved,  don't  be  ashamed!  Butterfly,  I  am  not  ashamed  of  your  presence:  only  come  to  me,  come  to  me  again,  if  no  longer  now,  then  later,  always  come.  These  were  Rosa's  private  words;  but  she  was  stoic,  tamed;  she  did  not  say  them  aloud  to  Magda.  Pure  Magda,  head  as  bright  as  a  lantern.  The  shawled  telephone,  little  grimy  silent  god,  so  long  comatose-now,  like  Magda,  animated  at  will,  ardent  with  its  cry.  Rosa  let  it  clamor  once  or  twice  and  then  heard  the  Cuban  girl  announce-oh,  Persky:  should  he  come  up  or  would  she  come  down?  A  parody  of  a  real  hotel!l-of,  in  fact,  the  Mariz  with  its  fountains,  its  golden  thrones,  its  thorned  wire,  its  burning  Tree!  &quot;He's  used  to  crazy  women,  so  let  him  come  up,&quot;  Rosa  told  the  Cuban.  She  took  the  shawl  off  the  phone.  Magda  was  not  there.  Shy,  she  ran  from  Persky.  Magda  was  away. "