 I  AM  TVYENTY-ONE  614  HEARD  ringing,  and  I  realized  I  that  what  I  had  done  was  contin-  ue  my  answer  to  Essay  Question  I-&quot;How  did  the  development  of  the  ribbed  vault  alter  and  affect  theca-  thedral  architecture  of  13th  Century  [REDACTED]  and  France?&quot;-writing  clockwise  around  the  left,  top,  and  skinny  right-hand  margins  of  the  first  page  in  my  exam  blue  book.  I  had  for-  gotten  to  move  along  to  page  2  or  to  Question  II.  The  ringing  was  mine,  inside  my  head,  and  it  was  probably  from  my  overdoing  it  with  diet  pills  or  from  the  green  tea  all  last  night  and  from  reading  and  more  reading.  I  was  doing  C  work  in  all  courses  but  this  one-&quot;The  Transition  from  Romanesque  to  Gothic.&quot;  I  needed  to  blast  this  course  on  its  butt,  and  that  was  possible,  because  for  once,  for  this  one  course,  I  knew  it  all.  I  needed  only  time  and  space  to  tell  it.  My  study  notes  were  two  hundred  and  fifty-three  pencil  sketches  from  slides  we  had  and  from  the  textbook  and  from  platesin  books  I'd  found  at  the  Fine  Arts  Li-  brary.  I  had  sixty-seven  pages  of  lec-  ture  notes  that  I  had  actually  copied  over,  word  for  word,  for  clarity.  Ev-  erything  Professor  Williamson  had  said  in  class  was  recorded  in  my  notes  -practically  his  throat  clearings  and  asides  about  weather.  It  got  to  the  point  where  if  he  rambled  I  thought,  Yeah,  yeah,  cut  the  commercials  and  get  back  to  the  program.  Some  guy  whose  hair  I  could  have  ripped  out  was  finished  with  his  exam.  He  was  actually  handing  it  to  the  teaching  assistant.  How  could  he  be  finished,  even  if  he'd  given  just  a  cur-  sory  treatment  to  the  three  questions?  He  was  a  quitter,  a  skimmer,  I  decided  -a  person  who  denied  detail.  I  was  having  to  stop  now  and  again,  really  too  often,  to  skin  the  tip  of  my  pencil  with  a  razor  blade  I  had  brought  along.  I  preferred  a  pencil  because  it  couldn't  dry  up  or  leak,  but  this  was  a  No.  1  graphite  and  gushy  soft,  and  I  was  writing  the  thing  away.  And  the  eraser  was  just  a  blackened  nub.  Why  hadn't  I  brought  a  damn  box  of  pencils?  The  teaching  assistant  was  Clark-  Clark  Something  or  Something  Clark,  I  didn't  know.  He  was  baggy  and  sloppy,  but  happy-looking.  He  had  asked  me  out  once  for  Cokes,  but  I  had  brus hed  him  off,  and  that  was  maybe  stupid,  because  he  might  be  in  charge  of  grading  exams.  I  decided  to  ignore  Question  II-  pretend  I  hadn't  even  seen  it.  I  leaned  hard  into  Question  III,  on  church  decoration,  windows,  friezes,  flora,  fauna,  bestiaries:  the  iconography  in  general.  I  was  quoting  Honorius  of  Autun  when  the  class  bell  fired  off.  I  glanced  up;  most  people  were  gone.  &quot;Come  on,  everyone!&quot;  Clark  called.  &quot;Please.  Come  on,  now.Miss  Bittle?  Mr.  Kenner,  please.  Miss  Powers?&quot;  &quot;Go  blow,  Clark,&quot;  I  said  right  out  loud.  But  I  slapped  him  my  blue  book  and  hurried  out  of  Meverett,  feeling  let  down  and  apathetic  all  of  a  sudden,  and  my  skin  going  rubbery  cold.  I  biked  home  with  a  lot  of  wobbling.  I  stuck  to  the  sidewalks.  I  was  scared  that  out  in  the  streets  I'd  get  my  ring-  ing  confused  with  car  warnings.  I  was  still  ringing.  Last  semester,  I  had  had  a  decorat-  ing  idea  for  my  apartment-a  monas-  tic  idea  of  strict  and  sparse.  I  had  stripped  the  room  down  to  a  cot,  a  book  table,  and  one  picture.  The  plas-  ter  walls  were  a  nothing  oatmeal  color,  which  was  O.K.,  but  not  O.K.  was  that  some  earlier  renter  had  gooped  orange  paint-unbelievably-  on  the  moldings  and  window  frames.  So  where  I  lived  looked  not  like  a  scholar's  den,  finally,  but  more  like  where  a  bum  would  sleep;  like  poverty.  My  one  picture  up  wasn't  of  a  Blessed  Virgin  or  a  detail  from  Amiens  of  a  king  holding  a  rod  of  the  Tree  of  Jesse  but  an  eight-by-ten  photograph  of  Rudy  and  Leslie,  my  folks.  On  the  mat  was  written  &quot;Gold  Coast,  the  first  cool  day.&quot;  The  picture  had  been  shot  out  on  43616e616461Lake  Shore  Drive  around  1964,  I'd  say,  when  I  was  three.  Leslie,  my  mom,  was  huddled  into  Rudy,  sharing  his  lined  leather  jacket.  With  all  that  eye  sparkle,  they     a  car  2  |  ~  -S  citgo  r  {}{fmngk  .~&quot;  ,-  a  oU  Komae  Pat)  4.1  ¢  yi  P  «a  r  tips  is  _-~4  r  4»  &quot;a/  R  wae  Witfew  Way»  f  looked  like  people  in  an  engagement-  ring  ad.  They  had  been  secret  artists.  Rudy  was  a  contractor  for  a  living,  Leslie  a  physical  therapist.  They  worked  all  their  art  urges  out  on  me-on  my  school  projects,  for  instance,  which  they  hurled  themselves  into.  One  proj-  ect  &quot;I&quot;  did  for  seventh  grade  that  they  helped  me  with  was  good  enough,  I  swear,  for  a  world's  fair.  It  was  a  kind  of  three-dimensional  diorama  triptych  of  San  Francisco  Bay,with  both  bridges-Bay  and  Golden  Gate-that  lit  up  or  maybe  even  glowed  in  the  dark.  We  had  to  borrow  a  neighbor's  station  wagon  just  to  get  the  thing  safely  over  to  Drieser  Junior  High;  it  lined  up  as  long  as  an  ironing  board.  I  had  tugged  my  bike  inside,  left  it  leaning  against  the  wall  under  the  photograph.  I  clapped  a  kettle  onto  the  midget  stove  in  the  kitchen  part  of  my  apartment  now,  and  I  paced  around,  waiting  for  the  water  to  heat.  The  pitch  and  volume  of  the  steam  jet  when  it  sang  were  only  a  quarter  tone  below  the  ringing  in  my  head.  My  folks  were  two  and  a  half  years  gone.  I  used  to  drive  out  to  the  site  of  their  accident  all  the  time-a  willow  tree  on  Route  987.  The  last  time  I  went,  in  March,  the  tree  was  still  healing.  The  farmlands  were  an  ugly  powdery  blond  in  the  white  sun,  and  the  earth  was  still  ragged  from  winter.  Isat  there  in  my  tiny  Vega  on  the  broken,  crumbly  shoulder  of  the  road,  and  the  great  tree  and  the  land  around  -flat  as  a  griddle  for  miles  and  miles  -didn't  seem  as  fitting  as  I  had  once  thought,  not  so  poetic  a  place  for  two  good  lives  to  have  stopped.  I  had  my  tea  now  and  grieved  about  the  exam.  Leaving  a  whole  essay  ques-  tion  unanswered!  How  could  I  expect  to  get  better  than  a  C?  Just  before  my  first  sip  of  tea,  my  ringing  shut  off  as  though  somebody  had  punched  a  but-  ton,  said,  &quot;Enough  of  that  for  her.&quot;  I  decided  it  was  time  to  try  for  some  sleep,  but  first  I  used  a  pen  with  a  nylon  point  to  tattoo  a  &quot;P&quot;  on  the  back  of  my  hand.  This  meant  when  I  woke  up  I  was  to  eat  some  protein-  shrimp  or  eggs-or  a  green  some-  thing;  foods  that  weren't  quick-fried  or  sugar  and  better  off  ina  Dumpster.  On  the  cot  I  tried,  as  a  sleep  trick,  to  remember  my  answer  to  Essay  Question  I,  word  for  exact  word.  That  got  me  pitching,  though,  as  if  I  were  falling  somehow  down  into  the  cot.  I  wished  that  I  wouldn't,  but  I  &quot;You  may  switch  to  the  less  expensive  wine  now.&quot;  started  wondering  again  just  where-  with  my  parents  so  totally  in  love-  had  I  fitted  in.  I  wanted  to  know,  but  probably  I'd  never  know.  I  was  eigh-  teen  when  it  happened,  so  I  should  have  figured  it  out  by  now.  I  kept  their  picture  around  because,  oddly,  putting  away  the  idea  of  my  folks  would've  beeneven  worse  for  me  than  losingthe  real  them.  In  the  photograph,  atleast  they  looked  familiar.  I  thought  about  my  grades.  I  thought  about  the  insurance  money  going  so  fast.  Even  if  I  had  F'd  out  on  the  &quot;Romanesque  to  Gothic&quot;  final,  'd  still  deserve  up  to  a  C-minus  for  the  course.  One  way  or  the  other,  I'd  grad-  uate.  A  person  could  graduate  with  all  low  C's.  Professor  Williamson  might  not  be  so  relieved  tosee  me  go.  This  had  been  my  third  class  with  him,  and  in  each  I  had  been  wired  up-a  pain,  yes,  but  maybe  also  a  challenge.  