 b"JANICE  Johnson  was  thinking    computer  software  when  she  woke  up  last  Wednesday  morn-  ing,  and  when  Bob  and  the  kids  came  down  to  the  kitchen  she  had  scribbled  three  or  four  things  on  an  envelope  and  was  thinking  some  more.  &quot;I  don't  know  what  came  over  me!&quot;  she  cried.  &quot;It's  like  a  dream  or  something!&quot;  And  two  hours  later  she  cashed  in  an  insur-  ance  policy  and  started  Janico.  They  make  computer  skirts.  Cotton  skirts  with  an  elastic  band  to  fit  any  console.  &quot;I  saw  computers  in  this  dream,&quot;  Janice  explained,  &quot;and  they  seemed  sort  of-well,  stark.  So  I  thought  of  dressing  them  up  a  little  bit.&quot;  A  little  bit!  Janico  was  worth  $2.3  million  at  noon  today,  and  now  she's  bringing  in  a  top  management  team  from  San  Francisco  &quot;to  handle  the  bills  and  checking  account  and  all  that  stuff.&quot;  They're  due  to  arrive  in  fifteen  min-  utes.  That's  how  fast  things  are  moving  nowadays-in  computers,  communica-  tions,  quality  control,  the  incentives  field,  all  thehot  spots  in  the  economy.  Friends  of  yours  may  be  on  their  way  to  incredible  first-quarter  earnings-  old  chums  you  saw  lest  night!  You  went  out  together  to  a  little  Australian  restaurant  for  creamed  onions  and  baked  emu  and  sat  around  talking  idle  talk,  and  suddenly  this  morning  while  you  drank  orange  juice  and  read  the  funny  pages  she  was  saying  to  him,  &quot;Earl,  I  had  an  idea  about  trans-  ceivers.  Why  not  turn  that  little  U-  shaped  gizmo  around  and  putthe  little  red  things  in  from  the  other  end?&quot;  Why  not,  indeed!  Tomorrow  they'll  be  sitting  pretty,  their  pictures  in  the  financial  section-a  hundred  thousand  shares  of  ChumCo  snapped  up  by  hungry  investors  at  $17.375-and  you'll  be  wondering,  &quot;Why  not  me?  Why  didn't  I  think  of  that?  Francine  doesn't  know  beens  about  transceivers,  she's  in  women's  shoes,  for  heaven's  sake!  And  yet  here  she's  flipped  the  whole  industry  over  on  its  ear!  What's  going  on  here?&quot;  I  know  that  feeling;  it's  exactly  how  I  felt  until  ten  days  ago.  I  was  in  the  slide  business,  cranking  out  those  packets  of  color  slides  you  see  in  sou-  venir  shops-  Yosemite,  the  Ever-  glades,  Homes  ofthe  Stars,  Scenic  In-  diana-and  going  nowhere,  while Bam!Bam!  Bam!  other  people  were  hitting  pay  dirt.  One  day  they  were  like  anyone  else  and  the  next  I  knew  they  were  off  in  another  world.  My  racquetball  partner,  Bobby  Lee,  can-  celled  a  Friday  match  saying  his  head  hurt,  and  the  next  Monday  he  was  into  soybean  micro-chips  and  formed  BLeeCo,  and  Tuesday  he  spun  off  two  subsidiaries,  BLInc  and  BLAmCo,  to  get  into  mood  publishing  and  to  shel-  ter  some  of  his  earnings  in  forests.  I  had  never  even  heard  of  mood  publish-  ing!  On  Wednesday,  it  was  theold  guy  who  lives  across  the  alley  from  me  and  raises  tomatoes  and  keeps  about  thirty-seven  cats-one  day  a  sad  old  duffer  and  the  next  thing  he's  chair-  man  of  the  board  of  Down  Home  Video,  and  suddenly  next  to  Ms.  Pac-  Man  and  Donkey  Kong  you  see  Ringalario  and  Kick  the  Can  and  Starlight  Moonlight  and  Mumblety-  Peg  and  Video  Whist,  and  the  old  geezer  is  raking  in  the  loot,  sitting  around  with  a  noseful  of  quarters.  After  a  while,  you  get  tired  of  being  gracious  and  saying,  &quot;Geel  That's  wonderful!  I'm  really  happy  for  you!&quot;  You  want  to  hide  in  Bobby  Lee's  bushes  and  wait  for  him  to  come  out  the  door  whistling.  You  want  to  jump  on  Bobby  Lee  and  get  his  leg  in  a  toehold  and  make  him  roll  around  in  the  dirt  while  you  yell,  &quot;Tell  me,  Bobby  Lee!  Tell  me  fast!  Tell  me  two  or  three  good  tips  right  now  this  min-  ute  or  I'll  bust  your  foot!&quot;  That's  what  I  did  eleven  days  ago  last  night.  He  told  me,  too.  The  next  day  I  was  in  business  as  MeCo.  We  make  a  little  ultrasonic  buzzer-type  thing  that  attaches  to  your  dashboard.  It  turns  red  lights  to  green  in  every  state  but  [REDACTED].  Right  now  I've  got  more  money  than  I  know  what  to  do  with.  You  know  what  that's  like?  It's  like  breathing  a  different  air.  Like  the  law  of  gravity  doesn't  apply  to  you.  Colors  are  brighter,  food  tastes  better.  You  tell  jokes  and  people  laugh  their  heads  off.  I\xe2\x80\x99D  like  to  share  my  secrets  with  you.  Actually,  one  secret.  It's  so  simple  you'll  wonder  why  you  didn't  think  of  it  years  ago.  I'd  like  to  blurt  it  out  right  now-at  no  charge  whatsoever.  You  won't  owe  me  so  much  as  a  thank-you.  &quot;Why?&quot;  you're  probably  wonder-  ing.  &quot;Why  would  a  rich  guy  be  giving  away  his  secret  to  people  like  us!  There  must  be  some  hitch,  some  string  attached.  A  guy  like  him  isn't  going  to  " b"share  secrets  just  like  that!  A  guy  like  him  isn't  about  to  hand  out  the  secret  inside  infor-  mation  that  has  earned  him  incredible  sums  these  past  ten  days!  Who  is  he  trying  to  kid?  Whom  does  he  take  us  for?  We  weren't  born  yesterday!&quot;  O.K.,  forget  it.  That's  not  what  Jan-  ice  Johnson  said  when  I  told  her  a  couple  of  things,  but  then  she  isn't  suspicious  and  small-minded,  like  a  lot  of  people.  She's  Meth-  odist,  like  me.  Our  church  is  well  known  for  having  a  generous  nature.  Sunday  morn-  ing,  Janice  slipped  a  hundred  thousand  dol-  lars  into  the  collection  plate.  Now,  that's  stew-  ardship!  We're  like  that.  We're  not  stingy  and  mean.  We  don't  hold  with  the  idea  that  [REDACTED]  is  slipping  and  the  economy  is  drying  up  and  everyone  will  have  less  and  hold  on  to  it  tighter  and  tighter.  We  think  the  opposite.  Fabulous  possi-  bilities  are  all  around  us!  Wealth  abounds,  if  only  we  open  ourselves  up  to  new  ways  of  thinking!  That's  why  Janice,  Bobby  Lee,  and  myself  formed  the  Birds  of  the  Air,  Beasts  of  the  Field  Foundation  over  the  weekend.  BOTABOTFF  believes  that  animals  have  much  to  tell  us,  that  they  cer  communicate  with  people  and  do-on  a  daily  basis'l-and  that  these  important  messages  are  lost  simply  because  we  are  not  receptive  to  them.  BOTABOTFF  will  be  spending  more  than  six  million  dollars  in  the  next  few  weeks  on  research  aimed  at  training  people  to  hear  messages,  verbal  or  telepathic,  from  the  animal  world.  &quot;What  sort  of  messages?&quot;  you're  probably  wondering.  &quot;Might  they  in-  clude  business  advice  or  investment  tips?&quot;  Sure,  they  might.  It  all  depends.  Depends  on  the  animal,  too.  Janice  is  very  high  on  cats  right  now,  which  she  sleeps  with  two  of  and  claims  they  speak  to  her  in  dreams.  Me,  I  don't  trust  them,  and  if  a  cat  walked  up  to  me  this  minute  and  said,  &quot;Mutual  fund,&quot;  I'd  pay  no  attention.  If  I  heard  it  from  my  dog,  Buster,  I'd  listen,  but  not  from  a  cat  and  not  from  snakes.  Bobby  Lee  swears  by  snakes.  He  keeps  three  of  them  under  his  bed.  We  all  agree  on  one  thing,  though.  Whales  are  the  smartest  creatures  on  earth,  smarter  than  dolphins.  A  dol-  phin's  ideas  are  ideas  that  whales  had  months  ago.  Humpbacks  communicate  halfway  around  the  world,  emitting  a  vast  range  of  sounds,  most  of  which  concern  food  and  sex  but  some  are  about  marketing  and  development.  Of  course,  most  people  can't  profit  from  interspecies  exchange  because  they're  too  dumb.  They  don't  have  the  sense  that  God  gave  geese,  to  use  an  extreme  example.  Let's  take  a  purely  hypothetical  case.  Let's  say  that  your  dog  Buster  had  an  ear  infection,  so  you  put  him  in  the  car  and  drove  to  the  vet's.  Let's  say  Buster  was  agitated  and  stood  on  the  front  seat  with  his  forepaws  up  on  the  dashboard  and  made  this  strange  whining  sound.  Let's  say  that  you   drove  six  and  five-tenths  miles  through  busy  streets  and  never  had  to  stop  for  a  single  red  light.  In  addition,  a  pain  in  your  left  elbow  went  away  and  your  car  radio  started  picking  up  ship-to-shore  off  the  coast  of  [REDACTED].  Let's  say  you  happened  to  have  a  cas-  sette  recorder  in  thecar  with  you.  Would  you  press  Record  and  capture  Buster's  vocal  secrets  while  sailing  through  intersections  where  long  lines  of  cars  on  the  cross  streets  wait  for  you  to  pass?  Or  would  you  pull  over  to  the  curb,  stifle  the  mutt,  and  wait  for  the  lights  to  turn  red?  Let's  say  you  do  the  first  thing  and  a  week  and  a  half  later  you  become  a  multimillionaire.  You  decide  to  tell  someone  else  about  it.  Now  let's  say  you're  that  other  person.  Someone  tells  you  he  got  rich  and  offers  to  share  the  secret  for  free  and  you  don't  believe  him,  but  then  he  tells  you  more  and  suddenly  you  sort  of  do  but  now  he  is  asking  $239.50  for  the  secret  postpaid.  How  long  do  you  think  that  offer  will  stand?  Is  it  too  late  already?  Is  that  your  dog?  Is  that  a  smile  on  his  face? "