 b"NOT  long  ago,  I  was  driving  on  an  interstate  highway,  a  long  way  from  anything  that  re-  sembled  home,  when  my  car  commit-  ted  suicide.  I  had  bought  it  three  years  ago  from  a  guy  named  Bob,  who  was  operating  a  used-car  lot  on  a  pier  along  the  [REDACTED]  River  and  keeping  it  a  secret  from  the  City  Collector.  Bob  couldn't  arrange  to  let  me  road-test  the  car,  although  I  did  get  to  pier-test  it.  Subsequently,  some  friends  ex-  plained  to  me  that  this  was  not  the  ideal  way  to  buy  a  car,  and  I  will  admit  that  this  particular  vehicle  never  did  strike  me  as  perfect-it  had  re-  movable  window  cranks,  for  instance  -but  I  took  it  because  I  wanted  a  car,  so  that  I  could  go  places,  and  because  I  was  in  a  big  hurry  and  because  I  knew  that  in  this  car  I  would  always  know  that  I  was  riding  in  a  car  and  because  I  wanted  to  give  a  boost  to  Bob,  who  had  told  me  that  after  he  got  rid  of  this  cream  puff  and  a  couple  of  others  he  was  going  to  get  out  of  the  used-car  business  sothat  he  could  &quot;concentrate  on  my  music.&quot;&quot;  He  could  make  a  noise  with  his  voice  that  sounded  a  lot  like  a  muted  trumpet.  He  did  it  for  me,  and  he  was  pretty  good.  The  only  other  car  that  I  had  looked  at  that  day  was  being  offered  by  Madame  Gladys,  a  gypsy  fortune-teller  who  did  her  con-  sulting  in  a  salon  near  Times  Square.  Actually,  Madame  Gladys  wasn't  sell-  ing  the  car;  her  brother  Bob  (a  differ-  ent  Bob)  was,  and  he  refused  to  let  me  road-test  it  without  some  sort  of  cash  commitment,  because  he  didn't  want  to  give  up  his  parking  spot.  The  car  that  the  first  Bob  sold  to  me  I  grew  to  admire.  I  admired  it  right  up  to  that  bleak  final  scene  on  the  interstate.  I  had  been  driving  seven  straight  hours,  dusk  was  coming  quick-  ly,  and  I  was  still  in  [REDACTED].  [REDACTED]  is  so  large.  My  car  was  so  small.  I  was  in  the  part  of  Pennsyl-  vania  where  experienced  individuals  own  young  cars  from  [REDACTED].  My  car  was  old,  and  it  was  manufactured  in  one  of  the  countries  that  we  fought  against  during  the  Second  World  War.  These  last  few  weeks,  I  have  been  trying  to  make  sense  of  my  car's  life  and  death-what  it  means  to  me  and  my  family,  how  it  affects  my  short-  term  relationships  with  certain  of  my  creditors,  how  it  impacts  upon  United  [REDACTED]  transportation  goals  and  options  during  the  next  decade.  I  have  had  a  chance  to  see  my  experience  with  the  car  as  a  few  daubs  of  color  on  the  broad  canvas  of  history,  and  I  believe  I  have  been  able  to  place  what  has  hap-  pened  to  me  within  the  proper  context  of  global  events.  Things  look  like  this:  1974  Tiny  metallic-gray  four-cylinder  hatchback  automobile  manufactured  in  Asian  nation  and  exported  to  [REDACTED].  Gerald  Ford  becomes  President.  1975  Car  sold  to  556e6974656420537461746573n  citizen,  regis-  tered  in  New  [REDACTED].  My  Aunt  Irene,  longtime  resident  of  Bergen  County,  New  [REDACTED],  moves  to  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED].  Khmer  Rouge  overrun  Phnom  Penh,  [REDACTED].  Car  undergoes  3,000-mile  and  5,000-mile  maintenance  checkups.  [REDACTED]  Reds  win  World  Series  in  seven-game  thriller  over  Bosox.  Vogue  for  no-frills  air  travel  begins.  1976  Viking  1  lands  on  [REDACTED].  Johnny  Rutherford  wins  rain-short-  ened  Indy  500.  [REDACTED]  celebrates  Bicentennial.  Mao  dies.  Jimmy  Carter  defeats  Ford.  Car  does  pretty  well,  presumably.  1977  Farrah  Fawcett  swimsuit  pinup  poster  proliferates.  Square  tomato  perfected  by  Califor-  nia  botanist.  [REDACTED]  fishermen  catch  85,000  metric  tons  flounder,  halibut.  Car  resold  to  lady  in  [REDACTED].  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  St.  Paul  &amp;  Pacific  Railroad  declares  bankruptcy.  1978  Domestic  inflation  rate  hits  double  digits.  Car,  being  tiny,  perhaps  gets  squeezed  into  many  implausible  Man-  hattan  parking  spots.  Middle  toe,  my  right  foot,  becomes  infected,  heals.  Anti-Shah  rioting  in  4972616e.  1979  Car  resold  again;  title  transferred  to  &quot;girlfriend&quot;  of  Bob,  proprietor  of  " b"[REDACTED]  Pier  Motors  Co.,  an  unincor-  porated,  barely  visible  enterprise.  Michelle  Triola  and  Lee  Marvin  tell  world  they  are  no  longer  in  love.  Big  shakeup  in  4972616e;  Shah  splits.  Idi  Amin  leaves  office.  Willie  Mays  inducted  into  Hall  of  Fame.  1980  [REDACTED]  flounder,  halibut  catch:  107,000  metric  tons.  I  buy  car  from  Bob.  By  entropy,  car  loses  section  of  tail  pipe;  I  pay  for  new  exhaust  system,  new  torque  bushings  on  engine  mount,  three  oil  changes,  lubes,  new  snap  rings  on  front  axle.  Jean-Paul  Sartre  dies.  Jean-Claude  Duvalier  marries;  5,000  guestsattend  festivities  in  [REDACTED].  Ronald  Reagan  elected.  1981  Joe  Granville,  stock-market  analyst,  says,  &quot;Sell  everything.&quot;  [REDACTED]  accepts  six-year,  $3.2  bil-  lion  [REDACTED]  aid  package.  First  flight  of  space  shuttle.  Wife  pregnant,  insists  upon  new  shock  absorbers;  new  shocks  installed.  Also:  new  ignition  coil,  new  distribu-  tor,  new  battery,  new  muffler,  new  windshield-wiper  blades,  new  plugs  and  points  and  condenser  and  air  filter.  Total  cost:  $848.34.  Soviet  Communist  Party  Congress  convenes;  many  Communists  attend.  Price  of  gasoline  in  [REDACTED]  hits  equivalent  of  $2.40  per  gallon.  Wife  gives  birth;  I  load  cargo  space  of  car  with  supplies  for  big  party  for  newborn  son.  I  give  wife,  newborn  son  lift  home  from  hospital.  1982  Yet  another  heir  to  British  throne  born.  Interest  rates  move  around.  Car  gets  brake  job,  oil  change,  lube,  tuneup,  four  brand-new  expensive  steel-belted  radial  tires  in  preparation  for  trip  West.  Car  gets  steered  through  Lincoln  Tunnel,  across  [REDACTED],  into  Pennsylva-  nia.  Not  near  much  of  anything  in  west-  ern  [REDACTED],  car  develops  rhythmic  ping-  ing.  Car  suffers  apparent  seizure,  stops  on  highway  shoulder.  I  hitch  ride  with  trucker  to  truck  stop  eight  miles  back  the  other  way.  Guy  behind  service  counter  in  truck  stop  tries/fails  to  muster  look  of  con-  cern/pity.  Muzak  version  of  &quot;Mean  to  Me&quot;  plays  on  radio.  Guy  behind  ser-  vice  counter  turns  down  radio,  picks  up  telephone  receiver,  calls  Earl.  Darkness  falls.  WENTY  minutes  later,  Earl  showed  up  in  a  red  pickup  truck,  rolled  down  the  window,  told  me  to  get  in,  drove  down  the  highway  to  my  car,  sucked  on  his  pipe,  scratched  his  beard,  mentioned  that  he  had  no  flashlight,  borrowed  mine,  poked  around  under  the  hood,  checked  the  oil,  found  none  in  the  crankcase,  and  said  thatthe  car's  piston  bearings  were  shot  and  that  the  car  had  &quot;th'owed  a  piston  rod&quot;  clean  through  the  engine  block.  Earl  said,  &quot;I  can't  fix  this.  Art  will  tow  you  off  the  highway.  You  owe  me  twenty  dollars.&quot;  Back  at  Art's  service  station,  before  driving  away  with  my  flashlight,  Earl  said,  as  an  afterthought,  &quot;You  might  try  calling  Cindy's  husband.  They  fix  foreign  cars.&quot;  When  I  called  Cindy's  husband,  Cindy  answered  the  phone.  She  was  extremely  friendly.  I  told  Cindy  my  story,  and  that  inspired  her  to  tell  me  a  " b"story  about  the  time  her  foreign  car  th'owed  a  piston  rod  in  [REDACTED]  (proba-  bly  not  far  from  Aunt  Irene)  and  had  to  be  towed  back  to  [REDACTED].  Cindy  said,  &quot;Hold  on.  The  cat  just  jumped  in  the  spaghetti  sauce.  'll  call  you  right  back.&quot;  Meanwhile,  Art  had  turned  up  and  had  figured  out  that  I  was  using  his  telephone  to  talk  to  Cindy.  He  said  that  Cindy  and  her  husband  owed  him  money  and  proba-  bly  always  would  and  if  I  wanted  him,  Art,  to  tow  my  car  then  let's  get  moving.  As  we  drove  off,  Art  said,  &quot;When  you  buy  one  of  these  foreign  cars,  they  should  berequired  by  law  to  tell  you  that  this  is  gonna  happen  and  you're  gonna  be  out  of  luck.  They  shouldn't  even  allow  cars  like  yours  on  this  part  of  the  interstate.&quot;  He  also  mentioned  that  he  was  coming  down  with  the  flu  and  probably  pneumonia  and  might  not  live  through  the  night.  I  thought  about  what  happens  to  you  in  [REDACTED]  when  you  put  a  citi-  zen  like  Art  out  of  his  misery.  I  thought  about  Art's  tactical  advan-  tage  in  strategic  tire  tools.  Art  hitched  my  car  tohis  truck  and  told  me  that  in  his  opinion  the  cost  of  towing  it  to  thenearest  qualified  mechanic  plus  the  cost  of  the  repairs  would  come  toa  few  multiples  of  the  car's  worth,  provided  that  there  was  some  way  of  locating  the  necessary  parts-which  he  doubted-and  I  gave  him  no  back-  chat.  When  we  got  to  Art's  service  sta-  tion  again,  he  told  me  what  I  owed  him.  As  I  was  handing  him  the  money,  I  realized  that  I  wanted  to  spend  a  few  private  moments  with  the  car.  But  it  was  cold  andArt  had  agreed  to  give  me  a  rideto  the  Holiday  Inn  in  town  and  I  figured  he  wouldn't  be  sensitive  to  my  need  to  be  alone  with  a  dead  automobile  for  a  little  while  when  he,  Art,  was  eager  to  get  home  and  eat  supper  and  work  on  his  pneumonia.  Art  drove  me  to  the  Holiday  Inn.  I  checked  in,  took  a  shower,  started  to  feel  hungry,  and  headed  for  the  dining  room.  On  the  way  there,  across  from  the  video-game  room  I  saw  a  display  case  full  of  prod-  ucts  whose  bottle  caps  were  manufac-  tured  rightthere  in  town.  I  saw  bottles  of  Gordon's  Gin,  Gilbey's  Gin,  Jim  Beam,  Swan  Spirits  of  Gum  Turpen-  tine,  Fasteeth  Denture  Adhesive  Pow-  der,  STP  Gas  Treatment,  Ascriptin  (aspirin  with  Maalox),  Flintstones  Multiple  Vitamins  Plus  Iron,  McCor-  mick  Parsley  Flakes,  McCormick  Cheese  Flavor  Salad  Toppins,  and  Cocktails  for  Two  Strawberry  Mar-  garitas.  In  the  dining  room,  I  ordered  a  cheeseburger,  and  the  waitress,  whose  name  tag  said  that  she  was  a  Kim,  asked  whether  I  would  also  care  for  something  from  the  bar.  I  said,  &quot;Bring  me  a  bottle  of  Flintstones  and  a  six-pack  of  Cocktails  for  Two  Strawberry  Margaritas  to  wash  them  down,.  Could  you  handle  that,  Kim?&quot;  Kim  went  to  find  the  manager.  At  that  moment,  I  started  to  feel  extremely  in  control  of  things-in  control  in  a  way  that  would  probably  have  made  me  cry  if  I  hadn't  been  in  the  dining  room  of  a  Holiday  Inn,  where  usually,  when  you  see  people  crying,  you  don't  know  who  they  are  and  therefore  can't  do  much  to  help  them  feel  better.  I  told  myself,  The  situation  I'm  in  isn't  Bob's  fault-  surely  Bob's  out  of  the  business  by  now  -it  isn't  Kim's  fault,  it's  not  the  manager's  fault,  Cindy  had  nothing  to  do  with  it,  Earl's  just  Art's  gofer,  I  wish  it  were  Art's  fault  but  it  really  isn't.  I  was  the  only  one  left.  I  did  this  one  to  myself.  World  affairs-Europe,  Africa,  the  Middle  East,  etc.-were  still  there  in  the  picture.  Yuri  Andro-  pov  had  been  elected  head  of  [REDACTED],  winning  by  a  landslide.  A  weird  sub-  atomic  particle  had  turned  up  ina  lab  over  in  [REDACTED].  Every  day  more  and  more  flounder  and  halibut  and  other  types  of  fish  were  being  caught.  I  had  wanted  a  little  car  sothat  I  could  go  places,  and  now,  at  last,  here  I  was,  in  a  place."