 b"AS  a  child  of  the  sixties,  I  never  tire  A  of  attending  reunions  of  my  friends  and  comrades  who  struggled  together  through  that  excit-  ing  era.  My  affinity  group  at  the  march  on  the  Pentagon,  at  the  Chi-  cago  Convention,  and  at  the  Boston  Common  still  gets  together  once  a  month  to  reminisce.  The  guys  in  my  men's  rap  group,  veterans  of  so  many  coffee-and-cigarette  late-night  sessions  in  those  distant  Summers  of  Love,  meet  four  times  a  year  at  a  restaurant  in  Chinatown.  And  as  for  the  &quot;heads&quot;  who  went  looking  for  America  on  the  Merry  Pranksters'  bus-Kesey,  my-  self,  Mountain  Girl,  Hassler,  Zonker,  Speed  Limit,  and  the  rest-we  con-  vene  the  first  Tuesday  of  every  month,  no  matter  the  weather,  at  twelve  noon  in  the  lobby  of  the  Airway  Motor  Inn,  beside  LaGuardia  [REDACTED].  At  all  these  reunions,  we  sixties  survivors  talk,  compare  notes,  and  wonder  at  the  odd  arcs  our  lives  have  described  since  the  days  when  we  awoke  every  morning  expecting  to  find  a  world  transformed  by  love,  radiant  and  utopian,  waiting  on  our  doorstep.  For  the  most  part,  we  findthat  the  years  have  softened  us,  Now  we  can  see  the  gray  areas,  whereas,  before,  all  we  could  see  was  black  and  white.  We  are  not  so  much  saddened  by  these  changes  as  we  are  gently  bemused.  No,  things  didn't  turn  out  the  way  we  thought  they  would.  But  then  neither  did  we.  We  grew,  nudged  by  forces  both  inside  and  outside  ourselves,  forces  that  we  did  not  take  into  ac-  count  at  the  time.  Personal  fulfillment  in  such  areas  as  love,  sexuality,  careers,  and  coping  gradually  overrode  the  slo-  gans  of  the  sixties.  The  next  thing  we  knew,  we  weren't  the  kids  anymore-  we  were  the  adults,  with  kids  of  our  own.  These  days,  when  we  get  together  to  marvel  at  the  major  and  minor  mir-  acles  that  brought  us  from  there  to  here,  we  find  that  our  conversation  always  seems  to  return  to  the  children.  Rather  than  bemoaning  the  shattered  dreams  of  our  revolutionary  youth,  more  and  more  we  find  ourselves  amazed  at  the  unanticipated  miracle  of  this  new  generation.  Sixty  million  Americans  born  since  the  Beatles  released  &quot;Rub-  ber  Soul&quot;&quot;!  Sixty  million  for  whom  the  Berkeley  Free  Speech  Movement  is  a  historical  event  as  remote  as  the  Ko-  rean  War!  These  kids  areso  different  from  us,  and  yet  they're  so  wonderful,  too.  They're  committed,  competent,  hardworking,  goal-oriented-all  the  things  we  weren't.  So  levelheaded,  so  matter-of-fact,  so  accepting  of  the  way  the  world  is,  so  undismayed.  Not  fot  them  the  wild  caroming  from  rock  music  to  drugs  to  gurus  to  radical  politics  which  characterized  the  gener-  ation  of  the  sixties;  today's  kids  know  what  they  want,  and  they  know  how  they're  going  to  get  it.  With  all  they  have  seen,  they  have  a  wisdom  that  many  of  their  parents  are  still  seeking.  I  know  my  friends  sometimes  may  think  I'm  a  bit  of  a  pain  when  we're  trading  snapshots,  the  way  I  go  on  about  my  nephews  Zachariah  and  Noah.  They're  my  sister's  kids  from  her  first  and  second  marriages,  and  I  can't  help  bragging  about  them.  Those  kids  really  keep  me  sane.  Sur-  prisingly,  I  find  very  often  it  is  I  who  learn  from  them.  They  have  a  terrific  ability  to  deflate  their  elders'  preten-  sions  and  follies  with  a  sense  of  humor  that  is  refreshingly  down  to  earth.  For  example,  when  we  ride  the  subway  I  always  retreat  into  my  shell,  stare  at  my  feet,  and  put  on  a  blank  expression,  like  so  many  other  numbed  adults.  Not  my  nephews.  They'll  stroll  up  and  down  the  car,  looking  into  the  shop-  ping  bag  of  one  passenger,  mussing  the  hair  of  another.  They'll  remove  the  glasses  from  this  one  and  then  replace  them  upside  down,  or  they'll  pull  up  the  shirt  collar  of  that  one  and  read  the  label.  If  they  see  an  attractive  woman,  why,  they'll  give  her  a  pinch  or  a  pat.  They're  so  in  touch  with  their  feelings-their  anger,  particularly.  If  someone  laughs  at  them,  they'll  give  him  a  lick  over  the  head  with  a  golf  club  that  they  carry  just  for  that  purpose,  and  then  take  his  box  radio.  How  they  come  up  with  these  things  I  can't  imagine.  They  have  such  marvellous  savvy.  They  know  where  to  sell  gold  chains,  what  arcades  in  Times  Square  are  best  for  meeting  older  men  from  New  Jersey,  what  day  of  the  month  the  Social  Security  checks  arrive.  Being  around  them  is  a  twenty-four-hour-a-day  experience  in  wonder.  I  can  never  tell  what  they're  going  to  do  next.  I've  long  ago  stopped  trying  to  figure  them  out.  All  I  do  is  love  them,  watch  them,  listen  to  them,  and  tryto  let  them  teach  me.  And  what  about  us  grownups-  lapsed  flower  children,  ex-peaceniks?  Do  we  have  anything  to  teach  the  kids  of  today?  Can  we  tell  them  how  it  felt  to  live  for  an  idea,  to  stand  with  arms  linked  against  oppression  and  racism,  to  sing  with  our  brothers  and  sisters  about  the  world  we  were  going  to  build?  Sadly,  we  cannot-any  more  than  our  parents  could  tell  us  about  their  youth.  And  that  is  the  irony:  that  the  children  of  the  eighties  should  help  us  to  understand  not  only  our  own  time  but  also  our  parents'  (the  children  of  the  eighties'  grandparents')  time;  because  we,  the  parents  of  today,  un-  derstand  better  why  our  parents  acted  toward  us  as  they  did  when  we  look  at  our  own  children  and  see  that  in  twenty  years,  when  they  have  children  of  their  own,  they  will  understand  us  better-the  way  we  now  understand  our  parents  better.  And  maybe  then  the  kids  of  today  will  begin  to  under-  stand  the  spirit  of  the  sixties.   "