 b"WHILE  I  was  flipping  through  the  day's  mail  after  a  real  yawn  fest  of  a  workday  at  the  Stereo  Shack,  I  came  across  something  that  knocked  me  over  like  a  good  brushback  pitch.  It  was  a  postcard  from  Wayne,  and  I've  really  got  to  hand  it  to  him,  but  before  I  get  going  on  Wayne's  postcard  and  on  Wayne  and  on  how  Wayne  was  my  best  friend  and  just  the  whole  incredible  Wayne  Story,  I'd  like  to  say  right  up  front  that  my  reelfear  of  any  kind  of  hereaf-  ter  is  that  instead  of  being  sort  of  reunited  with  my  family  and  friends  and  everyone  I've  ever  felt  close  to,  I'll  get  there  and  find  myself  in  the  middle  of  just  casual  acquaintances-people  I  recognize,  people  I  always  said  hi-  how-you-doing  to,  but  zobody  I  ever  felt  close  to.  Like  the  guy  from  the  luncheonette,  kitty-corner  from  the  Stereo  Shack,  who  makes  the  great  two-story  ham  sandwiches,  plenty  of  mustard,  but  who  I  can't  exactly  say  I'm  attached  to.  He's  a  nice  guy  and  all,  and  I  even  gave  him  ten  per  cent  on  some  speakers  once,  but  if  he's  the  first  person  I  see  in  the  afterlife  it'll  be  some  letdown.  And  if  I  reach  life's  nineteenth  hole  before  him,  and  I'm   the  first  one  Ae  sees,I  can  understand  how  it'll  sour  the  whole  experience  for  him,  too.  I'd  probably  tryto  duck  be-  fore  he  saw  me,  but  if  he  saw  me  ducking,  that  would  be  pretty  awful.  I  mean,  imagine  yourself  popping  through  into  extra  innings,  only  tosee  one  of  your  regular  sandwich  custom-  ers,  who  suddenly  ducks,  pretends  he  doesn't  know  you,  pretends  you  never  made  maybe  two  hundred  and  ninety-  seven  ham  sandwiches  for  him  during  his  lifetime,  plenty  of  mustard.  Now,  I  can't  tell  from  Wayne's  postcard  if  the  afterlife  ever  starts  out  that  creepy  for  anyone,  but  if  it  does,  it's  just  like  Wayne  not  to  go  into  it.  That's  the  way  Wayne  was,  and  one  reason  why  he  was  my  best  friend  and  one  reason  why  he'll  stay  my  bestfriend,  espe-  cially  if  he  can  keep  up  this  great  second  effort  through  the  mail.  He  did  slip  in  a  few  comments  about  the  after-  life  on  his  card,  but  nothing  that  would  scare  any  of  us  still  playing  life's  back  nine.  On  a  snowy  night  one  year  ago,  Wayne  and  I  were  sitting  and  water-  ing  our  facesin  that  Wild  West  bar  called  the  Sitting  Bull.  Above  the  bar,  there's  this  giant  painting  of  four  Sioux  Indians  inbig,  flowing  head-  dresses  riding  in  a  gondola  in  4974616c79  that  Wayne  was  so  crazy  about,  and  right  in  front  of  us  those  upside-down  cowboy  hats  with  the  barbecue-fla-  vored  party  mix  that  we  both  liked.  Wayne  and  I  were  swapping  stories  about  Harold,  the  Stereo  Shack's  only  TV  salesman  and  a  buddy  from  the  Stereo  Shack's  softball  team.  Harold  had  recently  left  the  team  and  every  other  earthly  organization  after  plow-  ing  smack  into  an  oak  tree.  He  wasn't  evensupposed  to  be  driving.  This  guy  was  a  narcoleptic,  whichmeans  per-  mission  denied  asfaras  getting  your  hands  on  a  wheel  in  this  state  goes.  So  anyway,  old  Wayne  and  I  get  to  won-  dering  what  Harold's  .450  batting  av-  erage  is  doing  for  him  wherever  he  is  now,  and  soon  we're  speculating  as  to  what  that  wherever  actually  is  and  if  it  would  be  possible  for  a  guy  exiting  to  that  place  to  smuggle  in  a  room  equalizer.  I  explain  to  Wayne  my  fear  of  seeing  just  people  I  kind  of  recog-  nize  there,  but  take-it-as-it-comes  Wayne,  of  course,  says  he's  not  wor-  ried,  and  laughs  through  a  mouthful  of  party  mix.  He  says  he's  expecting  something  more  like  the  best  room  they  have  at  the  Ramada  Inn  in  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  with  telepathic  models  bringing  youand  your  best  deceased  pals  frothy  turquoise  drinks  just  as  soon  as  you've  all  drained  your  clear  orange  ones.  Eventually,  I  get  around  to  telling  Wayne  about  Houdini  and  his  wife.  I  took  this  book  out  from  the  bookmobile  once  that  was  all  about  the  Houdinis  conducting  their  own  afterlife  ex-  periment.  They  went  and  promised  each  other  that  the  first  one  of  them  to  die  would  do  everything  possible  to  reach  the  one  still  alive.  Well,  Harry  Houdini  died  in  1926.  And,  according  to  the  book,  before  Beatrice  Houdini  died,  in  1943,  she  admitted  that  she'd  neverheard  from  Harry  and  called  their  experiment  a  failure.  But  Wayne,  who  I  guess  was  feeling  his  " b"boilermakers  pretty  well  by  then,  says  he  loves  the  idea  anyway,  and  he  gets  me  to  say  &quot;What  the  heck&quot;  and  shake  hands  and  then  sign  and  date  a  Sitting  Bull  Bar  cocktail  napkin  with  him  to  cement  our  own  pact,  and  a  man  next  to  us  who's  beenmuttering  something  about  his  sister  making  a  thousand  dollars  a  second  seems  glad  to  sign  it,  too.  ELL,  that  was  a  year  ago.  Then,  a  half  year  later,  Wayne  and  I  are  locking  up  the  Stereo  Shack  after  a  real  gutterball  of  a  business  day  when  Wayne  turns  to  me  and  says,  &quot;Let's  call  'em.&quot;  So  we  take  turns  calling  our  wives  from  a  phone  booth  in  the  parking  lot,  and  twenty  cents  later  we're  loose.  There's  some  all-  you-can-stand  fish  fry  at  the  Sitting  Bull,  but  it  sounds  a  little  too  bush  league  to  us.  Instead,  we  drive  out  to  Long  Lake  and  smack  two  large  buck-  ets  of  balls  each  at  Denny's  Driving  Range.  Wayne  uses  a  3-wood,  and  after  every  swipe  says-loud  enough  for  everybody  there  including  Denny  to  hear-&quot;Thet's  on  the  green.&quot;  Then  we  go  nearby  for  some  Italian  and  a  couple  ofpitchers  of  draught  beer.  Later,  when  we're  cruising  back  in  my  Toronado  with  all  the  windows  down,  Wayne  finds  the  head  of  a  green  toy  soldier  in  my  glove  compart-  ment.  It's  just  this  tiny  little  rubbery  soldier  head  without  a  body  that  my  kid,  Timmy,  probably  left  around,  and  it  made  us  sort  of  laugh.  Then  Wayne  puts  it  in  his  left  nostril-just  a  little  ways-so  that  the  little  army  man  could  sort  of  look  out,  and  then  turns  so  they're  both  looking  at  me.  And  that  really  cracks  me  up.  Next,  Wayne  says  something  like  &quot;Eyes  on  the  road!&quot;  and  snaps  his  head  straight  ahead,  sothat  the  soldier  watches  the  road,  and  it's  stupid,  but  we're  gig-  gling  like  high  schoolers  and  tears  are  coming  down.  But  then  W  ayne-gasp-  ing  for  air-sort  of  snorts  inwards  and  the  little  head  vanished  and  we  had  to  driveright  to  Long  Lake  Hospital  and  it  wasn't  funny  anymore.  And  the  way  it  turned  out,  the  inside  of  that  hospi-  tal  was  the  last  thing  on  earth  poor  Wayne  ever  saw-at  least  in  this  life.  ANYWAY,  Wayne's  postcard  is  a  miniature  version  of  the  big  painting  above  the  bar  at  the  Sitting  Bull-the  one  with  the  four  Sioux  Indians  in  headdresses  riding  in  a  gondola  in  4974616c79.  Except  that  on  Wayne's  postcard  there's  a  fifth  passenger  squeezed  in  between  two  of  the  Indians,  and  it's  Wayne  in  his  Stereo  Shack  softball  uniform,  smiling  and  with  his  cap  on  backwards.  There  wasn't  a  stamp  or  a  postage  mark  any-  where  on  the  card,  but  there  was  a  decent-sized  message  in  Wayne's  usual  slanty  brand  of  printing.  Wayne  began  by  saying  hi  and  saying  he  bet  I  was  surprised  he'd  got  ahold  of  me  like  we'd  talked  about  and  that  he  missed  hanging  out  together,  but  that  at  least  this  was  some  kind  of  way  to  reach  me.  Then  he  asked  if  my  Timmy  was  still  playing  Battle  of  the  Bulge  in  the  car,  and  wrote  &quot;ha  ha&quot;  afterwards.  He  said  that  his  notion  of  the  hereafter  being  something  like  a  room  at  the  Ramada  Inn  in  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  was  way  off,  except  for  the  turquoise  drinks.  He  said  that  the  stereo  systems  there  aren't  nearly  as  impressive  as  you  might  ex-  pect,  but  added,  &quot;The  acoustics  in  our  modules  are  choice.&quot;  He  plays  a  lot  of  what  he  calls  Cluster  Ball  there-&quot;a  potent  blend  of  golf,  bowling,  and  softball  for  large  numbers,&quot;  in  his  words.  Then  he  advised  me  to  get  out  in  life  and  shake  my  tail  feathers  all  I  can,  and  said  if  I  wanted  to  perform  one  especially  decent  act,I  should  tell  the  police  that  seventy-nine  cats  and  eleven  dogs  are  being  kept  inside  a  home  at  281  South  Brook  Lane,  about  half  a  mile  from  Denny's  Driving  Range.  Finally,  Wayne  said  it's  really  not  so  bad  after  your  third  strike  and  not  to  worry  about  it  but  justto  stay  loose  and  go  with  it  and  that  everything  will  make  a  lot  more  sense  to  me  when  we  meet  up  again-&quot;more  than  you  could  ever  imagine  right  now,&quot;  Wayne  wrote.  Which  was  nice  of  Wayne  to  say,  and  another  reason  why  he  was  my  best  friend  and  why  he'll  stay  my  best  friend-regardless  of  whether  or  not  he  can  keep  up  this  great  second  effort  through  the  mail.  "