 b"CATHERINE  discovered  that  it  was  C  really  two  parties.  The  indoor  party  took  place  in  the  warm,  lamplit  playroom,  with  its  out-of-tune  piano  that  did  not  quite  conceal  a  folded-up  Ping-Pong  table,  and  the  outdoor  party  took  place  on  the  snowy  slope  of  the  Anderson  back  yard.  From  the  top  of  the  slope  you  could  look  down  across  the  floodlit  driveway  to  the  dark,  open  garage  at  the  side  ofthe  house.  Under  the  floodlight  the  snow-  lumped  bushes,  glazed  and  glistening,  looked  like  crusted  pastries  with  rich,  soft  centers.  Now  and  then  the  inner  door  leading  to  the  playroom  would  open,  and  there  would  come  a  burst  of  voices,  laughter,  and  rock-and-roll,  followed  by  sudden  silence.  A  few  mo-  ments  later  a  shadowy,  winter-coated  figure  would  step  from  the  garage  into  the  glare  of  the  floodlight,  revealing  itself  to  be  Linda  Shulick  or  Karen  Soltis  or  Bill  Newmeyer  or  Roger  Murray  or  anyone  else  who  might  want  to  leave  the  hot  crowded  room  and  come  into  the  fresh  winter  night.  The  figure  would  cross  the  drive-  way,  trudge  up  the  hill,  and  join  the  group  beside  the  willow  for  a  smoke  in  the  cold  air  or  a  ride  down  the  path  in  the  snow.  The  good  thing  about  two  parties  was  that  you  could  pass  back  and  forth  between  them.  You  never  felt  trapped.  The  sleddingpath  itself  was  simply  a  wonder.  The  path  began  at  the  top  of  the  slope,  beside  the  willow,  and  after  a  sweeping  curve  it  head-  ed  sharply  down.  Then  came  a  second,  less-  er  curve,  and  a  lit-  tle  more  than  half-  way  down  the  path  forked  abruptly.  You  could  steer  to  the  right  and  continue  down  to  the  high  snow  and  half-buried  hedge  near  the  bottom  of  the  drive-  way,  or  you  could  steer  to  the  left  and  pass  the  wild  cherry  and  end  up  in  the  high  snow  near  the  moun-  tainlaurelin  the  flat  part  of  the  yard.  From  the  bottom  of  the  path  you  could  look  up  at  the  yellow  windows  of  the  playroom.  To  everyone  who  arrived,  Len  Anderson  ex-  plained  that  he  and  his  father  had  shov-  elled  the  path  all  that  day;  and  after  dinner,  when  the  temperature  had  fall-  en  to  twenty-six,  Len  had  carried  out  pot  after  pot  of  water,  coating  the  path  carefully  with  a  layer  of  ice.  That  was  to  ensure  maximum  speed.  Mr.  Ander-  son  was  a  mechanical  engineer,  and  Len  always  said  things  like  &quot;maximum  efficiency&quot;&quot;  and  &quot;ensure  maximum  speed.&quot;  But  Catherine  thought  it  was  a  lovely  path  anyway.  The  snow  on  both  sides  was  a  foot  and  a  half  deep.  A  new  white  Studebaker  turned  into  the  driveway,  and  at  the  same  time,  from  the  bottom  of  the  hill,  came  shouts  and  laughter:  Bob  Carwin  and  Bonnie  Baker  tumbling  into  the  snow.  &quot;Hey,  Bobby  boy,  none  of  that,  now!&quot;  &quot;He  did  that  on  purpose.&quot;  The  night  sky  was  a  rich,  dark  blue.  It  seemed  to  Catherine,  taking  deep  breaths,  that  she  smelled  the  richness  and  freshness  of  the  dark-blue  winter  night.  She  wondered  whether  it  was  possible  to  know  a  winter  night  by  its  smell,  the  way  you  could  know  a  summer  night  or  an  autumn  night  by  its  smell.  The  Studebaker  stopped  at  the  top  of  the  drive,  and  under  the  floodlight  Sonia  Holmes  got  out.  Perhaps  it  was  possi-  ble  to  smell  snow.  It  would  be  a  white,  47  cool,  fresh  smell,  like  the  smell  of  a  cool  white  sheet.  Or  was  snow  simply  an  absence  ofsmell:  of  the  sharp  green  aroma  of  grass,  the  faintly  acrid  smell  of  moist  earth?  Bev  Carlotti  came  over  to  Catherine.  &quot;I  can't  believe  it.  Do  you  see  what  she's  wearing?&quot;  Sonia  Holmes  went  into  the  garage.  Roger  said,  &quot;Have  you  seen  my  sled?  I  left  it  against  the  tree.  It's  gone.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  look!&quot;  said  Catherine.  She  was  stunned.  &quot;Was  that  a  rabbit?&quot;  A  little  animal  had  gone  hobbling  across  the  dark  upper  yard.  &quot;A  cat,  I  think,&quot;  someone  said.  &quot;A  rat,&quot;  someone  else  said.  &quot;A  skirt  to  go  sledding  in.  Nylons;  the  whole  bit.  She  kills  me.  She's  prob-  ably  wearing  heels.  I  suppose  she  thinks  it's  the  spring  dance.&quot;  &quot;Well,&quot;  said  Brad,  &quot;at  least  she  didn't  come  in  a  bathing  suit.&quot;  &quot;Don't  bet  on  it.  She  gives  me  a  swift  pain  I  hate  to  say  where.  She  ought  to  wear  asign  on  her  chest:  Look  on  my  works,  ye  Mighty,  and  despair.&quot;  &quot;It  didn't  look  like  a  cat,&quot;  said  Catherine.  &quot;Unless  cats  hop.  Cats  don't,  do  they?&quot;  &quot;They  might,&quot;  said  Roger,  &quot;in  the  snow.  They  might  have  to.  Some-  one  stole  my  sled.  This  isn't  a  bad" b"party.  At  least  they  let  you  smoke.&quot;  &quot;You  sound  like  my  father,&quot;  said  Catherine.  &quot;This  party  is  not  un-  wonderful.&quot;  &quot;This  party,&quot;  said  Roger,  &quot;is  very  unbad.&quot;  Sonia  Holmes  had  come  to  the  sled-  ding  party  wearing  nylons.  Catherine  imagined  her  long,  sleek  legs  glit-  tering  in  the  moonlight  as  she  sledded  down  the  path,  under  the  dark,  rich-  blue  sky.  It  seemed  festive.  Why  not?  &quot;'Maybe  she  isn't  planning  to  go  sledding,&quot;  said  Brad.  &quot;I  hope  she  is,  though.  It  might  be  worth  watching-  especially  if  she  falls  off.&quot;  &quot;I  bet  she  came  to  the  wrong  party,&quot;  said  Bev.  &quot;Whoops,  'scuse  me,  folks.  I  just  stopped  by  to  use  your  convenience.  Can  someone  point  the  way  to  the  powder  room?  Cath,  what  on  earth  are  you  doing?&quot;  &quot;I  was  looking  at  the  moon.  My  eyes  were  closed  because  I  was  trying  tosee  if  I  could  tell  whether  the  moon  was  out  even  if  my  eyes  were  closed.  Parties  make  me  feel  a  little  insane.  Listen,  here's  what  we'll  do.  We'll  call  Mr.  Holmes.  Mr.  Holmes,  a  dreadful  accident  has  occurred.  Mr.  Holmes,  I  regret  to  inform  you  that  your  daughter  has  lost  her  pants.  She's  hiding  in  the  cellar,  Mr.  Holmes.  Mr.  Holmes,  I  know  we  can  trust  you  to  be  discreet.&quot;  \xc2\xabWell,  could  you?&quot;  said  Roger.  &quot;What  are  you  talking  about?&quot;  &quot;The  moon.  You  said  you  were  try-  ing  to  tell  if  the  moon-welcome,  stranger.&quot;  &quot;Ride  down  with  me,  Cath?&quot;  It  was  Peter  Schiller,  holding  a  sled.  &quot;Sure.  But  let  me  steer,  all  right?  Listen,  do  you  know  what  Bev  said?  She  said  Sonia  ought  to  wear  a  sign  around  her  chest:  Look  on  my  works,  ye  Mighty,  and  despair.&quot;  &quot;Ozymandias,&quot;  said  Peter.  Catherine  looked  away  in  sharp  ir-  ritation.  &quot;She  came  in  a  skirt  and  stockings,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;We  know.&quot;  &quot;But  you  don't  know  what  she  said.  When  she  came  into  the  room  Helen  said  to  her,  'Are  you  going  sledding  like  that?&quot;  She  gave  Helen  one  of  her  Sonia  looks  and  said,  'I  didn't  think  you  had  to  go.&quot;  That  was  how  she  said  it:  'I  didn't  think  you  had  to  go.'&quot;  Peter  laughed.  &quot;Well,  come  on.  Have  you  done  it  with  two  before?&quot;  &quot;Not  exactly.&quot;  He  put  down  the  sled.  &quot;Well,  it's  a  little  tricky.&quot;  He  bent  over  the  sled,  pushed  it  lightly  to  the  start  of  the  path,  and  lay  down.  He  looked  over  his  shoulder.  &quot;Just  think  of  me  as  a  sled.  Try  not  to  get  off  center.  I  can't  steer  much  with  my  hands  on  the  in-  side,  but  I  can  help  a  little.  It's  bet-  ter  to  get  a  running  start,  but  we'll  ask  Brad  to  push  us  off  this  time.  O.K.?&quot;  &quot;I'll  just  think  of  you  as  a  sled,  Peter.&quot;  As  she  said  it,  laughing,  Catherine  was  startled  at  the  cruel  and  mocking  sound  of  her  words,  but  no  one  seemed  to  notice.  Peter  lay  on  the  sled  in  his  heavy  coat  and  tucked-in  scarf.  She  lay  down  on  top  of  him,  shifted  about,  and  grasped  the  outside  of  the  rudder.  She  felt  awfully  high  up.  Her  boots  kept  sliding  off  his  legs.  &quot;Put  your  feet  on  the  sled,  Cath,  it's  safer.  O.K.,  Brad.  Give  us  a  push.  Easy.&quot;  Brad  bent  over  them  and  eased  them  forward  along  the  flat  start  of  the  path.  He  gave  a  light  push  and  re-  leased  them.  Catherine  steered  clumsily  around  the  curve  and  felt  herself  slipping  to  one  side,  but  she  managed  to  stay  on  as  they  swung  onto  the  downward  path.  The  runners  rushed  over  the  glazed  snow,  and  she  felt  herself  still  slipping  to  one  side  as  they  took  the  second  curve  and  came  to  the  fork.  She  turned  sharply  to  the  left,  rocking  the  sled  and  feeling  a  boot  drag  against  the  snowbank.  She  jerked  to  the  right,  and  suddenly  they  were  rushing  at  the  right  bank;  Catherine  braced  herself,  but  somehow  they  were  back  on  the  path.  Half  on  and  half  off,  they  rushed  past  the  wild  cherry  and  came  to  an  abrupt  stop  in  the  high  snow.  Cather-  ine  fell  off.  &quot;Damn.&quot;  She  burst  into  laughter,  lying  on  her  back  in  the  snow.  The  sky  was  dark,  radiant  blue.  The  moon  was  so  bright  that  it  seemed  lit  from  within.  It  reminded  her  of  theeye  of  a  great  cat.  The  night  was  a  dark-blue  cat  with  a  mad  moon  eye.  Snow  burned  on  her  cheeks  and  a  soft  powder  of  snow  stirred  in  the  air  about  her.  She  could  feel  a  coil  of  hair  on  her  snow-wet  cheek.  " b"She  stretched  out  her  arms  and  began  moving  them  back  and  forth  in  the  snow,  as  if  she  were  giving  semaphore  sig-  nals.  Peter  stared  down  at  her.  ''You'd  better  get  up,  Cath.  What  are  you  doing?&quot;  &quot;Snow-an-  gels.  Didn't  you  ever  do  that  as  a  kid?&quot;  He  stared  down  at  her  and  she  burst  out  laughing.  &quot;Oh,  Peter,  you  look  so  bewildered!&quot;  She  stood  up,  dusting  off  snow.  They  trudged  uphill,  Peter's  buckled  boots  jangling.  HE  second  time  it  went  much  better:  Catherine  took  the  first  curve  smoothly,  swung  effortlessly  onto  the  left  fork,  steered  past  the  wild  cherry,  and  never  once  felt  herself  slip-  ping.  She  drove  into  their  tracksbeside  the  blurred  snow-angel,  and  brought  them  to  a  stop  five  feet  beyond  their  first  mark.  She  was  exhilarated  as  they  walked  uphill.  &quot;Isn't  there  something  festive  about  snow?  Festive  and  solemn.  I  can't  explain  it.  Oh,  I  can.  It's  festive  because  it  turns  everything  into  odd  shapes,  and  solemn  because  it's  white,  like  nurses,  and  hushed,  and  very  smooth  and  formal,  like  a  linen  table-  cloth.&quot;  Peter  laughed.  &quot;That's  wild,  Have  you  got  your  scores  back  yet?&quot;  &quot;Not  yet.  Brad  got  787  in  Math.&quot;  &quot;Well,  he  can  always  join  the  Army.&quot;  &quot;He  had  to  break  the  news  gently  to  his  mother.  I  hear  Sonia  got  an  800  in  posture.&quot;  Peter  burst  into  loud,  nervous  laughter.  The  thirdtime,  it  was  Peter's  turn.  Catherine  lay  on  the  sled  and  grasped  the  insideof  the  rudder.  &quot;Watch  out  for  that  tree,  Peter.  Remember  old  Ethan  Frome.&quot;  He  pushed  the  sled,  running  behind  as  he  bent  over  it,  then  threw  himself  lightly  and  easily  on  top  of  her  as  he  took  the  outside  of  the  rudder.  She  could  feel  his  chin  press-  ing  into  her  thick  fur  collar.  They  went  much  faster,  took  the  curves well,  rushed  into  the  left  fork,  and  flew  past  the  wild  cherry.  At  the  bot-  tom  they  came  to  a  halt  a  few  feet  past  their  second  mark-a  record  every  time.  She  felt  Peter  moving  her  hair  and  kerchief  away  from  her  ear,  and  she  heard  him  say  &quot;Love  you&quot;  or  &quot;I  love  you.&quot;  She  stayed  very  still.  Noth-  ing  happened.  All  at  once  the  weight  left  her  body;  she  heard  the  jangle  of  boot  buckles  and  a  sharp  crunch  of  snow.  When  she  was  sure  he  was  going  away  she  looked  over  her  shoulder  and  saw  him  walking  across  the  driveway  toward  the  garage.  Catherine  dragged  the  sled  up  the  hill  and  stood  beside  the  willow.  He  had  moved  away  her  hair  and  said  those  words.  She  felt  violated,  betrayed.  Brad  came  over.  &quot;What  happened  to  Peter?&quot;  &quot;Nothing.  He  got  cold,  I  guess.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Would  you  care  for  company  on  the  downward  path  to  ruin?&quot;  &quot;Not  now,  Brad.  I've  had  it,  for  a  while.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Where's  Peter?&quot;  asked  Bev.  &quot;God,  Peter  Peter  Peter.  He  just  went  inside.  What's  all  the  commotion  about?&quot;  &quot;Nothing.  You're  standing  there  with  his  sled.&quot;  &quot;'That  is  not  a  sled,&quot;said  Brad.  &quot;It  is  Peter,  bewitched.  Let  us  honor  the  memory  of  our  late  friend,  Miss  Carlotti,  by  sharing  a  ride.&quot;  Catherine  handed  him  the  sled  and  walked  through  the  soft,  hanging  twigs  of  the  willow  into  the  snowy  flatness  of  the  upper  yard.  Her  red  galoshes,  black-red  in  the  moonlight,  sank  almost  to  their  furred  tops.  The  black  twig-ends  of  some  buried  bush  stuck  up  out  of  the  snow;  a  small  withered  leaf  still  clung  to  one  of  the  twigs,  and  shook  slightly.  The  sight  of  the  trembling  leaf  disturbed  Cather-  ine,  and  she  looked  away.  She  came  to  a  tall,  broad  pine  that  leaned  to  one  side,  as  if  it  had  begun  to  fall  but  had  changed  its  mind.  The  long  lower  branches,  heavy  with  clumps  of  snow,  grew  close  to  the  ground.  A  few  of  the  branches  had  been  broken  off,  leaving  an  open  space.  Catherine  bent  over  and  entered  the  prickly  shelter  of  the  tree.  The  outer  parts  of  the  branches  were  heavy  with  snow,  but  toward  the  trunk  the  branches  showed  their  bark.  She  dusted  off  the  bark  of  a  thick  branch  " b"and  sat  down,  leaning  back  against  the  trunk  and  laying  one  leg  along  the  branch.  Through  black  and  snowy  pine-needles  she  could  see  the  crowd  by  the  willow,  the  bottom  of  the  sled-  ding  path,  and  the  open,  dark  ga-  rage.  It  was  not  possible  that  Peter  Schil-  ler  had  said  those  words.  It  was  so  impossible  that  she  wondered  whether  he  had  said  something  else,  something  that  sounded  like  it.  She  tried  to  think  of  something  that  sounded  like  it,  and  began  going  through  the  alphabet:  above,  dove,  glove-remembering,  at  &quot;glove,&quot;  that  in  the  ninth  grade  she  had  written  an  awful  sonnet  just  that  way,  and  wondering  what  had  ever  happened  to  that  sonnet.  Was  it  in  the  attic?  Maybe  he  had  said  &quot;I'm  above  you&quot;  or  &quot;A  glove  for  you.&quot;  But  she  knew  perfectly  well  what  he  had  said.  And  he  had  walked  away.  He  had  said  it  and  walked  away.  He  had  no  right.  And  he  knew  it:  he  was  ashamed.  She  and  Peter  Schiller  were  friends,  they  had  been  good  friends  for  more  than  three  years,  but  if  they  were  good  friends  it  was  precisely  because  there  was  nothing  more  to  it  than  that.  She  had  never  thought  of  him  in  that  way.  He  was  sweet,  and  irritating,  and  she  could  almost  be  herself  withhim;  she  liked  to  tease  him  about  his  horrible  French  pronunciation,  and  he  had  once  writ-  ten  a  limerick  begin-  ning  &quot;There  was  a  young  lady  called  Cath,  Who  was  better  at  English  than  Math.&quot;  They  were  comrades.  They  hit  it  off.  Cath-  erine  knew  she  had  a  playfulness  about  her,  even  a  flirtatiousness,  and  she  needed  friends  who  were  playful  as  well  as  intelligent.  In  the  auditorium,  where  members  of  the  Nation-  al  Honor  Society  were  allowed  to  sit  after  lunch,  she  enjoyed  a  sense  of  light-hearted-  ness,  of  pleasurable  re-  lease  from  the  routines  and  responsibilities  of  school,  and  not  every-  one  rose  to  the  occa-  sion  as  Peter  Schiller  sometimes  did.  The  fact  was,  they  got  on  well  together;  and  that  was  all.  He  was  not  her  type.  No  one  was  her  type.  She  had  ridden  down  with  him  on  the  sled  because  he  had  asked  her,  but  she  would  have  ridden  down  with  Brad  or  Roger  or  even  Bill  Newmeyer.  They  were  all  friends.  He  had  moved  away  her  hair  and  whispered  it.  Shehad  felt  his  finger  on  her  ear.  Suddenly  she  realized  that  he  must  have  removed  his  glove.  He  had  trapped  her  on  the  sled  and  said  it.  Catherine  heard  a  jangle  of  boot  buckles;  her  stomach  tightened,  as  if  she  were  about  to  be  punched.  She  wanted  to  run  away,  over  the  snow,  into  the  sky,  beyond  the  moon,  but  it  was  only  Brad.  He  looked  in  at  her,  bending  over  and  resting  his  gloved  hands,  leather  and  wool,  on  his  knees.  Bits  of  snow  clung  to  his  thick  orange  scarf,  and  a  thread  of  snowhung  from  one  eyebrow.  &quot;Is  anything  wrong?&quot;  &quot;No,  I'm  just  sitting  here.&quot;  She  gave  a  shrug  and  hugged  herself.  &quot;I  like  it  here.  Did  you  make  it  down?&quot;  &quot;I  think  we  went  through  the  tree  and  came  out  the  other  side,  but  other  than  that.  You're  sure  nothing's  wrong?&quot; &quot;I  like  watching  from  here.  You  have  snow  on  your  eyebrow.  No,  now  it's  worse.  You  have  snow  on  your  glove.&quot;  When  he  left,  Catherine  felt  for-  lorn.  Forlorn!  The  very  word  was  like  a  bell.  She  was  sitting  alone  in  a  cold  tree,  and  everyone  else  was  laughing,  and  sledding,  and  running  up  and  down  hills.  He  had  said  it,  and  there  was  no  way  he  could  unsay  it.  Cather-  ine  had  vaguely  expected  to  hear  those  words  someday,  just  as  she  vaguely  expected  to  hear  &quot;Will  you  marry  me?&quot;  -she  felt  it  was  inevitable,  there  was  no  way  around  it-but  they  would  be  uttered  by  someone  she  could  not  even  imagine.  They  had  nothing  whatever  to  do  with  anyone  she  knew,  or  with  this  town,  or  with  this  life.  When  she  heard  them,  she  would  be  somewhere  else.  She  would  not  even  be  herself.  He  had  looked  down  strangely  at  her,  lying  in  the  snow.  Now  she  would  never  know  what  he  was  think-  ing.  She  couldnever  trust  him.  She  wondered  whether  he  had  felt  that  way  all  of  a  sudden,  or  whether  he  had  been  feeling  that  way  a  long  time.  Once,  in  sophomore  year,  he  had  drawn  a  heart  in  the  black  wax  of  her  dis-  secting  pan.  It  had  been  a  frog'sheart,  with  labels  like  &quot;pur-  MONARY  VEINS&quot;  and  &quot;RIGHT  AURICLE.&quot;  He  had  drawn  a  feath-  ered  arrow  going  through  it.  &quot;Hey,  are  you  all  right?&quot;  Catherine  started;  she  had  not  heard  Bev  come  up.  &quot;'Yes,  I'm  fine,  I'm  fine.  What's  wrong  with  everybody  tonight?&quot;  &quot;You're  sitting  in  a  tree,  Cath.  Nobody  else  is  sitting  in  a  tree.&quot;  &quot;Well,  I  believe  in  Nature.  I  believe  Amer-  icans  ought  to  get  back  to  Nature,  like  the  Indians.  God,  can't  a  poor  working  girl  enjoy  Nature  with-  out  everybody  having  a  conniption  fit?  Slav-  ing  in  the  factory  nine  to  five,  six  days  a  " b"week,  ten  children,  my  husband  drunk  every  night-&quot;  'Hell,  honey,  you  think  you  got  problems.  My  husband  don't  drink,  but  I  got  ten  drunk  chil-  dren.  Listen,a  bunch  of  us  are  going  inside  now,  O.K.?  I've  had  enough  of  Mother  Nature  for  one  night.  Time  to  catch  a  little  of  the  Sonia  Holmes  show.  They've  got  Potato  Frills,  Cath.  Suit  yourself.  I  tried.&quot;  Catherine  watched  them  tramp  down  to  the  drive,  way  and  into  the  garage.  The  inner  door  opened,  and  she  heard  shouts  and  laughter  and  music:  piano  chords,  not  records.  Only  Roger  and  Bill  Newmeyer  stayed  outside,  sledding  hard,  over  and  over  again,  with  a  concentration  and  seriousness  that  seemed  to  her  beautiful.  Someone  smoking  a  cigarette  came  up  from  the  house-it  was  George  Silko-and  joined  them  for  a  time,  but  the  spirit  of  pure,  silent  con-  centration  had  been  broken,  and  soon  all  three  went  down  to  the  house.  Catherine  was  alone,  in  her  tree.  She  couldnever  go  down  there,  be-  cause  Peter  Schiller  was  there.  He  had  pinned  her  to  the  sled  and  put  those  words  inside  her,  and  then  he  had  gone  back  to  the  house  and  left  her  there  with  the  words  inside.  It  was  as  if-she  tried  to  think  how  it  was-he  had  suddenly  touched  her  breast.  She  felt  he  had  delicately  wounded  her  in  some  way.  A  LIGHT  wenton  over  the  ga-  rage:  the  party  had  spread  to  the  kitchen.  Through  a  sliver  of  window  between  translucent  curtains  she  saw  someone  pass  clearly  between  blur  and  blur.  Down  in  the  playroom  someone  must  have  opened  a  window,  for  Catherine  could  hear  the  out-of-tune  piano  coming  from  the  front  of  the  house.  A  voice  cried  &quot;I  can't  find  it.&quot;  There  was  aburst  of  laughter.  The  window  shut.  For  a  moment  she  had  been  drawn  into  the  warm  room  and  the  laughter,  and  now  she  was  banished  to  her  cold  tree.  She  remembered  standing  at  the  top  of  the  slope,  feeling  the  moonlight  pour  into  her  face.  It  seemed  a  long  time  ago.  Catherine  felt  that  some-  thing  strange  was  happening,  that  at  any  moment  the  house  below  might  start  slowly  sliding  away  over  the  snow,  like  a  great,  silent  ship  with  yellow  windows.  She  heard  the  piano  again:  someone  was  coming  to  get  her.  From  the  ga-  rage  Len  Anderson,  wearing  a  sweater  but  no  coat,  stepped  onto  the  driveway.  He  had  his  hands  in  his  pockets,  and  he  hunched  his  shoulders  quickly  against  the  cold.  He  looked  up  at  the  willow,  and  then  at  the  pine,  and  walked  rapidly  across  the  driveway,  stopping  at  the  side  of  the  hill.  &quot;Catherine?&quot;  he  called.  She  wondered  if  he  could  see  her  through  the  dark  branches.  &quot;Here,&quot;  she  answered,  feel-  ing  absurd.  Len  raised  an  arm  and  waved.  &quot;O.K.!&quot;  he  said,  and  turned  aroundand  went  back  into  the  house.  She  supposed  they  were  all  talking  about  her.  Where  was  Catherine?  Sit-  ting  in  a  stupid  tree.  Everything  was  strange,  all  the  houses  were  about  to  float  away,  the  moon  was  looking  sor-  rowfully  for  Catherine,  but  no  one  was  there.  She  hugged  herself  in  the  cold,  shivered  dramatically,  as  if  someone  were  watching,  and  tried  to  under-  stand  what  had  happened.  Shehad  been  in  one  of  her  moods,  wide  open  to  the  blue  mystery  of  night  and  the  fes-  tive,  solemn  snow.  There  were  times  when  the  world  seemed  to  Catherine  a  whole  series  of  little  explosions,  going  off  one  after  the  other,  and  all  she  could  do  was  stand  transfixed,  feeling  it  happening  all  around  her.  And  so  they  had  ridden  down  on  the  sled,  and  she  had  lain  on  her  back  in  the  snow,  looking  up  at  Peter  Schiller's  bewil-  dered  face.  And  perhaps,  without  in-  tending  to,  she  had  encouraged  him  to  say  those  words.  She  had  caught  him  in  her  wonder.  She  had  bewitched  him.  She  had  offered  herself  to  the  night  and  the  snow,  and  poor  old  Peter  had  misunderstood.  It  wasn't  his  fault.  And  the  longer  she  stayed  in  her  tree,  the  more  awkward  everything  was  becoming.  It  seemed  to  her  that  she  must  go  down  to  the  house  quickly,  quickly,  and  set  things  right.  She  would  behave  as  if  nothing  had  hap-  pened.  And  then,  in  a  moment  when  they  were  alone,  she  would  explain  that  she  had  been  touched  by  what  he  " b"had  said-really  touched,  Peter-but  that  she  preferred  to  think  of  him  as  a  dear  friend.  She  hoped  he  would  think  of  her  that  way  too.  She  was  not  in  love  with  anyone  at  all.  Catherine  was  so  relieved  that  she  clapped  her  gloved  hands,  sending  up  a  faint  snowspray.  She  felt  that  if  she  could  see  him  quickly,  and  explain,  then  the  words  would  go  away,  as  if  they  had  never  been  spoken.  Every-  thing  would  be  all  right  between  them.  Nothing  would  have  happened  at  all.  Catherine  tried  to  hurry  through  the  high  snow.  She  had  to  take  big,  awkward  steps,  and  snow  got  into  her  boots.  She  thought  of  the  rabbit  or  cat  she  had  seen  at  the  back  of  the  house.  She  wondered  if  it  had  found  a  warm,  dry  place,  out  of  the  snow.  On  the  driveway  she  looked  down  at  the  little  mounds  of  snow  on  her  boot-toes  and  stamped  each  foot  hard.  As  she  entered  the  garage  and  passed  along  the  side  of  a  darkly  gleaming  car,  a  nervousness  came  over  her,  but  she  hurried  on.  The  inner  door  opened  onto  a  tiny  hall.  [REDACTED]  steps  covered  with  black  rubber  led  up  to  the  kitchen.  Directly  on  her  left  was  the  dark-red  door  of  the  playroom.  On  her  right  was  a  dusky  workroom  where,  on  a  long  workbench  under  a  dim  yellow  bulb,  dripping  coats  lay  carelessly  heaped.  &quot;T  he  mystery  woman  returns,&quot;  said  Brad  from  the  couch.  He  gave  a  little  wave.  The  room  was  hot  and  dimly  lit  and  full  of  smoke.  She  did  not  see  Peter.  She  felt  her  cheeks  tightening  and  tingling  in  the  warmth,  as  if  her  face  were  being  pulled  carefully  into  place  over  her  skull.  Ned  Toomey,  seated  at  the  piano  with  a  cigarette  in  the  corner  of  his  mouth  and  his  eyes  narrowed  in  the  upstreaming  smoke,  was  playing  &quot;Sloop  John  B.&quot;  Beside  him,  looking  intensely  at  the  music  and  holding  in  one  outstretched  hand  an  empty  glass,  stood  Richie  Jelenik,  singing  in  a  deep,  mournful  voice.  On  the  other  side  Ken  Jackson  stood  with  one  foot  on  the  piano  bench,  playing  the  guitar  and  leaning  close  to  the  mu-  sic  as  he  looked  back  and  forth  quickly      from  the  notes  to  his  left  hand.  The  two  couches  were  full,  people  walked  about,  on  the  floor  in  a  lamplit  corner  Roger  and  Bill  Newmeyer  were  build-  ing  a  high  tower  with  small  colored  blocks.  &quot;They  said  you  were  in  a  tree,&quot;  said  Nancy  Russell,  and  Cather-  ine  noticed  that  Nancy  Russell's  eye-  brows  were  not  the  same  length.  A  bowl  of  Potato  Frills  appeared.  A  hand  held  out  a  paper  cup  of  ginger  ale.  Catherine,  glancing  at  a  window,  saw  with  surprise  her  surprised  face.  Through  herself  she  saw  brilliant  yel-  lowish  snow  and  a  yellow-lit  lantern  on  a  black  pole.  Ned  Toomey  and  Ken  Jackson  came  to  the  end  of  &quot;Sloop  John  B,&quot;  and  Richie  Jelenik  put  his  glass  down  on  the  piano.  They  began  to  play  &quot;Goodnight  Irene.&quot;  Catherine  moved  acrossthe  room  toward  Brad.  &quot;I'm  back,&quot;  she  said,  and  sat  down  next  to  him  as  he  shoved  over.  &quot;Isn't  it  awfully  smoky  in  here?&quot;  &quot;It  goes  with  the  d\xc3\xa9cor.  We  can  have  a  tree  brought  in  for  you,  if  you'd  like  that.  We  could  set  it  up  by  the  piano.&quot;  &quot;I  had  a  wonderful  time  in  my  tree,  thanks.  All  it  needed  was  a  heater.  Where's  Bev?&quot;  &quot;Upstairs,  enjoying  the  absence  of  smoke,  music,  and  teen-age  fun.&quot;  &quot;I  guess  Peter  fled  up  there  too.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know.  He  was  here  when  we  came  in,  moping  in  that  corner.  I  thought  he  went  out  again.  What  did  you  say  to  him,  cruel  woman'  Oh,  they're  good  at  this  one.&quot;  Ned  Toomey  had  broken  off  &quot;Good-  night  Irene&quot;  andhad  passed  without  pause  into  loud  rock-and-roll  chords  with  his  left  hand.  There  were  shouts  of  applause.  The  right  hand  came  in  with  a  series  of  climbing,  suspenseful  phrases,  and  Richie  Jelenik  sang  deeply,  soulfully,  soaringly:  Ah  Found  Mah  T  hri-hill  &quot;Louder!&quot;  cried  Brad.  &quot;Sing  it,  Richie  babe!&quot;  Own  bluebayry  hih-ill  &quot;Go,  Ned!&quot;  Own  bluebayry  hih-ill  &quot;These  guys  are  too  much.&quot;  Richie  Jelenik's  eyes  were  closed,  his  head  flung  back,  his  face  twisted  in  a  parody  of  passion;  and  the  tense  fingers  of  his  " b"outstretched  handswere  hooked  like  claws.  His  cheek  glistened,  and  Catherine  was  shocked:  she  thought  he  was  crying.  But  she  saw  that  he  was  sweating  in  the  close,  warm  air.  All  at  once  she  saw  a  bright  green  hill,  covered  with  tall  trees,  ripe  blueberry  bushes,  and  winding  paths.  Sunlight  streamed  in  through  the  leaves  and  fell  inshafts  onto  the  lovely  paths;  and  all  was  still  and  peaceful  in  the  blue  sum-  mer  air.  It  was  as  if  the  world  were  waiting  for  something,  waiting  and  waiting  with  held  breath  for  some-  thing  that  was  bound  to  happen,  but  not  yet,  not  yet.  Suddenly  Catherine  felt  like  bursting  into  tears.  She  looked  about.  Her  temples  throbbed  in  the  smoke-filled  air;  she  felt  a  little  sick.  &quot;I  think  I'll  go  up  and  say  hello  to  Bev,&quot;  she  said.  'Tell  her  to  come  on  down  and  join  the  party.  These  guys  are  terrific.&quot;  Catherine  escaped  from  the  room  and  climbed  the  wooden  stairs  toward  the  kitchen.  On  her  left  at  the  top  of  the  stairs  was  the  dark,  moonlit  living  room,  glowing  like  an  enchanted  cave  filled  with  chests  of  precious  jewels.  You  were  not  allowed  to  go  into  the  Anderson  living  room.  In  the  bright-  yellow  kitchen  to  her  right,  Bev  was  standing  at  the  stove,  gently  shaking  a  black  frying  pan  containing  dark-yel-  low  corn  kernels.  Sue  Wilson,  Linda  Shulick,  and  Joey  Musante  were  sit-  ting  at  the  kitchen  table.  On  the  table  stood  a  large  bottle  of  7Up,  a  bowl  containing  crumbs  of  popcorn,  and  a  smaller  bowl  filled  with  thin  straight  pretzels.  Catherine  went  over  to  Bev  and,  leaning  close  to  her  ear,  said,  &quot;Boo.&quot;  Bev  gave  a  little  start.  &quot;God,  you  scared  me.  I  thought  you  were  hibernating  for  the  winter.  Do  you  know,  Len  thought  you  were  angry  at  him?  Come  on,  you  guys,  pop.&quot;  &quot;Oh  no,  no.  That's  crazy.  Len?&quot;  Through  a  door  in  the  kitchen  Catherine  saw  the  small  dim  den,  crowded  with  people.  Sonia  Holmes  sat  on  a  couch  surrounded  by  her  courtiers.  Her  glittering  legs  were  tucked  under  her  skirt.  You  could  not  smoke  in  the  den  or  kitchen,  you  could  not  play  music  in  the  den,  you  could  not  drink  beer,  and  you  could  not  set  footin  the  living  room.  You  could  use  the  top  of  the  stove  but  not  the  inside.  &quot;It's  so  hot  down  there,&quot;  Catherine  continued.  &quot;Have  you  seen  Peter  around?&quot;  &quot;Peter?  You  and  Peter  are  some  pair.&quot;Catherine  drew  back  her  face  sharply,  as  if  she  had  been  struck  on  the  cheek.  &quot;Oh?&quot;  You  go  sit  in  a  tree,  and  Peter  goes  home.&quot;  &quot;Peter  went  home?&quot;  Sue  Wilson  said,  &quot;He  didn't  even  tell  anybody.  Janet  saw  him.  She  thought  he  went  to  get  something  in  his  car,  but  he  got  in  and  drove  away.  I  call  that  rude.&quot;  Bev  said,  &quot;Peter  isn't  rude.&quot;  &quot;He  left  his  sled,&quot;  said  Catherine.  A  restlessness  came  over  her,  and  she  thought  how  irritating  and  boring  all  these  people  were,  and  this  kitchen,  and  this  universe,  and  above  all,  above  all,  those  little  straight  pretzels.  Why  weren't  they  the  three-ring  kind?  &quot;It's  about  time!&quot;  said  Bev,  as  a  kernel  burst  into  flower.  She  thrust  the  cover  on  and  shook  the  pan;  there  was  a  crack-crack-cracking.  Catherine  went  over  to  the  den  and  looked  in  quickly.  Then  she  turned,  walked  across  the  kitchen,  and  went  down-  stairs.  HROUGH  the  half-open  door  of  the  playroom  Catherine  saw  drifting  smoke  and  the  corner  of  a  couch.  She  went  into  the  workroom  and  put  on  her  coat,  fumbling  with  the  plump  buttons,  shaped  like  half-  globes.  Pulling  on  her  boots,  and  tying  her  kerchief  under  her  chin,  she  strode  through  the  garage.  When  she  stepped  outside  she  saw  that  some  of  the  party  had  returned  to  the  slope.  She  had  thought  only  of  escaping  from  the  house,  and  now  she  was  standing  in  the  floodlight,  ex-  posed.  She  felt  like  putting  her  hands  over  her  face.  The  only  private  place  " b"was  the  leaning  pine.  She  climbed  the  slope  at  the  back  of  the  house,  away  from  the  sledding  path,  and  headed  across  the  deep  snow  toward  her  tree.  Under  the  moon  and  the  dark-blue  sky  the  snow  was  luminous  and  tinged  with  blue.  Catherine  stopped;  in  the  open  space  of  the  pine  she  saw  Bob  Carwin,  standing  with  one  arm  against  the  trunk  as  he  leaned  over  Bonnie  Baker,  who  sat  on  a  low  branch.  Catherine  turned  back  angrily  into  the  upper  yard.  There  was  no  place  where  she  could  be  alone.  There  were  people  at  the  willow,  people  at  the  bottom  of  the  sledding  path,  people  in  the  pine.  There  were  people  in  the  playroom,  people  in  the  kitchen,  people  in  the  den.  The  party  was  spreading;  soon  it  would  flow  across  the  yard,  over  the  hedge,  and  into  the  next  yard.  It  would  flow  across  the  town.  It  would  spread  into  the  dark-blue  sky,  all  the  way  to  the  snowy  moon.  Catherine  stood  in  the  empty  upper  yard.  She  felt  restless,  yet  there  was  no  place  to  go.  He  had  walked  to  his  car  and  driven  home.  He  had  not  told  anyone  he  was  going  home.  Catherine  thought  it  was  a  strange,  upsetting  thing  to  have  done,  and  all  at  once  she  felt  an  immense  pity  for  Peter  Schiller,  and  for  herself,  as  if  someone  had  done  something  to  them  and  gone  away.  But  it  was  Peter  Schiller  who  had  gone  away.  Catherine  shook  her  head,  as  if  to  shake  out  the  words.  She  looked  about.  Everything  seemed  sus-  penseful  and  mysterious-the  blue  snow,  the  deep  boot-hollows  in  the  snow,  the  floodlit  black  of  the  drive-  way,  startling  as  spilled  ink  rushing  across  a  table.  It  seemed  to  her  that  everything  she  looked  at  was  about  to  change  shape  suddenly.  But  it  all  re-  mained  peaceful,  suspended,  still.  And  the  sledders  rushing  down  the  slope  were  partof  it  too,  as  if  their  motion  were  only  another  form  of  stillness.  A  hill  of  summer  blueberries,  sledders  in  the  snow.  Catherine  felt  lifted  up  into  stillness,  as  if  things  were  about  to  shift  slightly,  or  crack  open  like  ker-  nels,  thrusting  up  inner  blossoms.  She  felt  a  faint  cracking  inside  her.  In  another  moment  she  would  understand  everything.  And  as  she  waited,  she  bowed  her  head  against  the  cold,  as  if  in  prayer.  A  shout  from  the  hill  startled  her.  Catherine  hugged  herself,  and  shiv-  ered  in  the  cold.  It  had  slipped  away,  what-  ever  it  was.  She  felt  tired,  as  if  she  had  been  running  for  a  long  time.  It  seemed  to  her  that  she  had  been  set  spinning,  like  a  top  that  travels  across  a  table,  touches  an  ob-  ject,  and,  still  spin-  ning,  rushes  off  in  an-  other  direction.  The  words  had  set  her  spinning  to  the  tree,  and  from  there  to  the  playroom,  and  from  there  to  the  kitchen,  and  from  there  to  the  snowy  wasteland  of  the  upper  yard.  And  once  you  were  set  spinning,  who  knew  where  you  would  stop?  She  was  spinning,  spinning,  and  now  she  was  about  to  go  spinning  off  again,  because  she  could  not  bear  to  be  alone.  She  no  longer  knew  what  was  going  to  happen  to  her.  She  no  longer  knew  anything  at  all.  Gravely,  her  head  bowed  slightly,  Catherine  walked  down  the  hill.  But  in  the  glow  of  the  floodlight  her  spirits  revived,  and  when  she  stepped  into  the  smoky  warmth  of  the  play-  room  she  felt  so  soothed,  so  enfolded,  that  she  enjoyed  the  feel  of  her  own  smile  as  it  pushed  against  her  tighten-  ing  cheeks.  Bev  and  Brad  waved  from  a  couch;  Catherine  waved  back.  At  the  piano  they  were  singing  &quot;Auld  Lang  Syne.&quot;  These  were  her  friends,  her  dear  friends  who  were  waving  to  her  and  laughing  and  playing  the  piano  and  singing.  There  was  a  clatter  of  descending  footsteps,  and  Catherine  turned  to  the  half-open  door.  Len  An-  derson  entered,  frowning  as  he  lit  a  cigarette  in  cupped  hands.  &quot;You're  leaving?&quot;  he  said,  looking  up  harshly.  &quot;Arriving,&quot;  she  answered,  and  untied  her  kerchief.  &quot;And  Len,  I  can't  tell  you  what  a  wonderful  party  it  is.&quot;  Pleasure  surged  in  her;  and  everyone  was  surprised  when  she  gave  him  a  big  hug.  "