 b"SHANE  got  arrested  just  before  his  sixteenth  birthday.  It  was  a  dumb  bust,  out  on  a  suburban  street  corner  in  Anaheim,  [REDACTED],  on  a  warm  spring  night.  A  couple  of  cops  were  cruising  through  the  haze  and  saw  some  kids  passing  around  a  joint,  and  they  pulled  over  and  did  some  unwarranted  pushing  and  shoving,  which  resulted  in  a  mi-  nor-league  riot.  Shane  did  not  hit  ei-  ther  of  the  cops,  although  they  testified  to  the  contrary  in  court,  but  he  did  break  the  antenna  off  their  patrol  car,  so  the  judge  was  not  entirely  wrong  to  give  him  a  suspended  sen-  tence  and  six  months'  probation.  The  whole  affair  was  no  big  deal  to  Shane,  since  he  didn't  feel  guilty  about  what  he'd  done-the  cops  had  been  asking  for  trouble-but  it  up-  set  his  grandparents,  with  whom  he'd  been  living  for  some  time.  His  grandfather,  Charlie  Harris,  drove  him  home  after  the  courtap-  pearance.  Harris  was  a  retired  phone-  company  executive,  stocky  and  white-  haired,  who  had  great  respect  for  the  institutions  of  the  world.  &quot;I  hope  you  know  how  lucky  you  are  to  get  off  easy,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;The  judge  could  have  thrown  the  book  at  you.&quot;  Shane  was  slumped  in  his  seat,  studying  his  fingernails.  &quot;It  was  a  farce,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  take  that  kind  of  attitude  and  you'll  wind  up  in  the  penitentiary.&quot;  &quot;I'm  not  going  to  wind  up  in  any  penitentiary.  Anyhow,  the  cops  didn't  tell  the  truth.&quot;  &quot;Then  they  must  have  had  a  rea-  [REDACTED];  Harris  said.  After  this,  Harris  made  several  se-  cretive  phone  calls  tohis  daughter  Su-  san,  who  was  Shane's  mother.  She  lived  in  the  redwood  country  north  of  San  Francisco  with  her  third  husband,  Roy  Bentley.  Bentley  was  some  kind  of  wealthy  manufacturer.  Shane  heard  only  bits  of  the  conversations,  but  he  was  still  able  to  guess  what  they  were  about.  His  grandparents  were  fed  up  with  him.  They'd  been  on  his  case  ever  since  his  school  grades  had  started  to  drop,  and  it  did  no  good  anymore  for  him  to  explain  that  his  math  teach-  er  failed  everybody  who  wasn't  a  jock,     BE  GOOD  or  that  his  chemistry  teacher  was  noto-  riously  unfair-to  the  Harrises,  teach-  ers  were  in  the  same  unimpeachable  category  as  judges,  cops,  and  ministers.  So  Shane  was  not  surprised  when  his  grandfather  broke  the  bad  news.  This  happened  one  night  when  they  werewatching  the  stock-car  races  out  in  Riverside.  They  both  loved  speed  and  machinery.  After  the  next-  to-last  race,  Harris  put  his  arm  around  Shane  and  told  him  that  Su-  san  wanted  him  to  spend  a  couple  of  months  with  her  during  the  summer.  He  used  a  casual  tone  of  voice,  but  Shane  understood  that  some-  thing  irreversible  had  been  set  in  motion.  &quot;It's  because  of  the  bust,  isn't  it?&quot;&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;I  said  it  wasn't  my  fault.&quot;  ''Nobody's  blam-  ing  you.  Your  mother  just  wants  to  see  you.  Things  are  going  well  for  her  now.&quot;  &quot;You  really  think  Susan  wants  to  see  me?&quot;  &quot;Of  course  I  do,&quot;  said  Harris,  giv-  ing  Shane  a  squeeze.  &quot;Listen,  this  Bentley  guy's  loaded.  He  owns  a  whole  ranch.  Your  mom  says  you  can  have  a  separate  cabin  all  to  yourself.  You'll  have  a  wonderful  visit.&quot;  &quot;Not  when  all  my  friends  are  here,&quot;  Shane  said.  &quot;What's  there  to  do  in  Mendocino?&quot;  &quot;Same  stuff  you  do  here.  Don't  be  a  baby,  Shane.  Where's  your  spirit  of  adventure?&quot;  &quot;It  dissolved.&quot;  Harris  moved  his  arm.  &quot;If  you're  going  to  take  that  attitude,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;we  won't  discuss  it  any  further.&quot;  &quot;It's  always  my  attitude,  isn't  it?  Never  anybody  else's.&quot;  &quot;Shane,&quot;  said  Harris,  as  calmly  as  he  could,  &quot;you  just  simmer  down.  You're  not  always  going  to  get  your  own  way  in  life.  That's  the  sim-  ple  truth  of  the  matter.&quot;  He  paused  for  a  moment.  &quot;The  important  thing  for  you  to  remember  is  that  we  love  you.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  sure,&quot;  said  Shane.  &quot;Sure  you  do.&quot;  RIGHT  after  school  let  out  in  June,  Shane  got  a  check  in  the  mail  from  his  mother.  She  sent  enough  for  him  to  buy  a  first-class  plane  ticket,  but  he  bought  a  regular  ticket  instead  and  spent  the  difference  on  some  Quaaludes  and  a  bunch  of  new  tapes  for  his  cassette-player.  The  drive  to  the  airport  seemed  endless.  At  the  last  minute,  his  grandmother  had  decided  to  come  along,  too,  so  he  was  forced  to  sit  in  the  back  seat,  like  a  little  kid.  The  space  was  too  small  for  his  body;  he  thought  he  might  explode  through  the  metal  and  glass,  the  way  the  Incredible  Hulk  exploded  through  clothes.  He  watched  the  passing  land-  scape,  with  its  giant  neon  figures,  its  many  exaggerated  hamburgers  and  hot  dogs.  It  appeared  to  him  now  as  a  register  of  all  the  experiences  he  would  be  denied.  He  would  have  a  summer  without  surf  and  beer,  without  friends,  and  possibly  without  sunshine.  The  scene  at  the  airport  was  as  difficult  as  he  feared  it  might  be.  His  grandmother  started  sniffing,  and  then  his  grandfather  went  through  a  big  hugging  routine,  and  then  Shane  himself  had  to  repress  a  terrible  urge  to  cry.  He  was  glad  when  the  car  pulled  away,  taking  two  white  heads  with  it.  In  the  coffee  shop,  he  drank  a  Coke  and  swallowed  a  couple  of  'ludes  to  calm  his  nerves.  As  the  pills  took  hold,  he  began  to  be  impressed  by  the  interior  of  the  terminal.  It  seemed  very  slick  and  shiny,  hard-surfaced,  with  light  bouncing  around  everywhere.  The  heels  of  people's  shoes  caused  a  lot  of  noise.  Susan  had  enclosed  a  snapshot  with  her  check,  and  Shane  removed  it  from  his  wallet  to  study  it  again.  It  showed  his  mother  and  Roy  Bentley  posed  on  the  deck  of  their  house.  Bentley  was  skinny,  sparsely  bearded,  with  rotten  teeth.  He  looked  more  like  a  dope  dealer  than  a  manufacturer.  Shane  figured  that  he  probably  farmed  mari-  juana  in  Mendocino,  where  sinsemilla  grew  with  such  astounding  energy  that  it  made  millionaires  out  of  ex-  tremely  improbable  types.  He  hoped  that  Bentley  would  at  least  be  easy  to  get  along  with;  in  the  past,  he'd  suf-  fered  at  the  hands  of  Susan's  men.  She  tended  to  fall  for  losers.  Shane's  father  had  deserted  her  when  Shane  was  ten  months  old,  vanishing  into  [REDACTED]  to  avoid  both  his  new  family  and  the  demands  of  his  draft  board.  Her  sec-  ond  husband,  a  frustrated  drummer  for  a  rock  band,  had  a  violent  tem-  per.  He'd  punched  Susan,  and  he'd  punched  Shane.  Their  flat  in  the  Haight-Ashbury  came  to  resemble  a  combat  zone.  It  was  the  drummer's  " b"random  attacks  that  had  prompted  Su-  san  to  send  Shane  to  stay  with  her  parents.  He  was  supposed  to  be  there  for  only  a  few  months,  but  the  ar-  rangement  continued  for  more  than  three  years.  Shane  still  hated  the  drummer.  He  had  fantasies  about  meeting  him  someday  and  smashing  his  fingers  one  by  one  with  a  ball-peen  hammer.  When  Shane's  flight  was  an-  nounced,  he  drifted  down  a  polished  corridor  and  gave  his  boarding  pass  to  a  stewardess  whom  he  was  surehe'd  seen  in  an  advertisement  for  shampoo.  He  had  requested  a  seat  over  a  wing,  so  he  could  watch  the  pilot  work  the  flaps,  and  he  had  to  slip  by  another  young  man  to  reach  it.  The  young  man  smiled  a  sort  of  monkey  smile  at  him.  He  was  slightly  older  than  Shane,  maybe  seventeen  or  eighteen,  and  dressed  in  a  cheap  department-store  suit  of  Glen  plaid.  Once  the  plane  had  taken  off,  Shane  finagled  a  miniature  bourbon  from  the  shampoo  lady  and  drank  it  in  a  gulp.  The  alcohol  shot  to  his  head.  He  felt  exhilarated  and  drowsy,  all  at  the  same  time.  He  glanced  over  at  the  young  man  next  to  him,  who  gave  off  a  pow-  erful  aura  of  cleanliness,  as  though  he'd  been  scoured  with  buckets  and  brushes,  and  said,  without  think-  ing  much  about  it,  &quot;Hey,  I'm  really  ripped.&quot;  The  young  man  smiled  his  pleasant  monkey  smile.  &quot;It's  O.K.,&quot;  he  said  reassuringly.  &quot;Jesus  loves  you  any-  how.&quot;  Shane  thought  the  young  man  had  missed  the  point.  &quot;I'm  not  talking  bourbon,&quot;  he  whispered.  &quot;I'm  talk-  ing  drugs.&quot;  &quot;I  guess  I  must  have  done  every  drug  there  is,&quot;  the  young  man  said.  He  tugged  on  his  right  ear,  which,  like  his  left,  was  big.  &quot;I  can  understand  the  attraction.&quot;  The  young  man  turned  out  to  be  Darren  Grady.  His  parents  were  citrus  growers.  He  was  travelling  to  a  seminary  outside  San  Francisco.  'You're  going  to  be  a  priest?&quot;  Shane  asked.  Grady  shook  his  head.  &quot;It's  more  in  the  nature  of  a  brotherhood.  Maybe  NOW  IN      you've  seen  those  ads  in  magazines  asking  for  new  brothers?&quot;  Shane  had  not  seen  the  ads.  &quot;I  never  noticed  them,  either,&quot;  Grady  went  on,  chew-  ing  a  handful  of  peanuts,  &quot;until  I  got  the  call.  You  want  to  know  how  I  got  it?'  I  was  tripping  on  acid  at  Zuma  [REDACTED],  and  I  saw  this  ball  of  fire  over  the  ocean.  Then  I  heard  the  ball  speak.  (Judgment  is  near,'  it  said.  I'm  not  kidding  you.  This  really  hap-  pened.  At  first,  I  thought  I  was  hallu-  cinating,  but  it  wouldn't  go  away,  even  after  1  came  down.&quot;  &quot;So  what'd  you  do?&quot;  &quot;Went  and  saw  a  doctor  at  the  free  clinic.  He  told  me  to  lay  off  the  dope.  So  I  did.  But  I  couldn't  get  rid  of  the  ball.&quot;  &quot;That's  what  made  you  want  to  be  a  priest?&quot;  Grady  frowned.  &quot;Ican  never  tell  it  right,&quot;  he  said,  picking  through  the  peanut  dust  at  the  bottom  of  his  little  blue-and-silver  bag.  Shane  was  moved  by  Grady's  story.  He'd  had  similar  baffling  trips,  dur-  ing  which  his  mind  had  disgorged  images  of  grievous  importance,  but  he'd  never  ascribed  a  religious  mean-  ing  to  any  of  them.  He  felt  foolish  for  bragging  about  taking  pills.  In  order  to  set  the  record  straight,  he  ex-  plained  to  Grady  that  he'd  been  ex-  posed  to  drugs  very  early  in  life,  be-  cause  his  mother  had  been  a  hippie;  she'd  named  him  after  her  favorite  movie.  &quot;It's  not  as  bad  as  some  names,&quot;  Grady  said.  &quot;I  had  a  guy  named  Sun-  beam  in  my  class  last  year.  Anyhow,  you  can  go  into  court  and  get  it  changed.&quot;  Shane  didn't  want  to  see  another  judge,  ever.  &quot;It  doesn't  bother  me  much  now,&quot;  he  said,  looking  out  at  the  sky.  &quot;When  we  lived  in  the  Haight,  Susan's  husband,  he  was  this  drummer-he'd  let  me  pass  around  joints  during  parties.  Sometimes  he'd  let  me  have  a  hit.  Susan  knew,  but  I  don't  thinkshe  cared.  I  was  so  small,  probably  not  much  of  it  got  into  me.  I  don't  know,  though.  I  hate  it  when  I  see  little  kids  smoking  dope  around  school.  You  ought  to  be  at  least  thir-  teen  before  you  start.&quot;  &quot;'Maybe  you  should  never  start,&quot;  Grady  said.  &quot;I  wouldn't  go  that  far.It  helps  to  calm  you.&quot;  Grady  tapped  his  breastbone.  &quot;The  calm  should  come  from  inside,&quot;  he  said.  It  seemed  to  Shane  that  Grady  was  truly  wise  for  his  age,  so  he  confided  all  his  troubles.  Grady  listened  pa-  tiently  until  he  was  done.  &quot;I  don't  want  to  downplay  it,  Shane,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;but  I'm  sure  it'll  be  over  soon.  That's  how  it  is  with  troubles.  They  float  from  one  person  to  the  next.  It's  bound  to  come  clear  for  you  real  soon.&quot;  Shane's  high  had  worn  off  by  the  time  the  plane  landed.  He  and  Grady  took  a  bus  into  the  city,  and  at  the  Greyhound  station,  off  Market  Street,  they  exchanged  addresses  and  phone  numbers.  The  light  outside  the  station  was  intense,  bathing  bums  and  com-  muters  in  gold.  Shane  was  feeling  relaxed,  but  he  got  anxious  again  when  Grady  left  for  the  seminary.  He  was  ner-  vous  about  seeing  Susan;  their  last  visit,  down  in  Anaheim  at  Christmas,  had  been  marked  by  stupid  quarrels.  He  tried  talking  to  a  soldier  who  was  also  waiting  around,  but  it  didn't  work.  The  soldier  was  chewing  about  four  sticks  of  gum.  Shane  asked  him  to  buy  a  bottle  of  apple  wine,  so  they  could  split  it,  and  when  the  soldier  did  Shane  drank  most  of  it,  washing  down  two  more  pills  in  the  process.  He  was  semiconscious  on  the  bus  ride  up  the  coast.  The  town  of  Men-  docino,  arranged  on  a  " b"cliff  overlooking  the  [REDACTED],  struck  him  as  a  misinterpretation  of  New  En-  gland.  &quot;It's  cute,&quot;  he  said,  to  nobody  in  particular.  From  the  lobby  of  an  inn  on  the  main  drag,  he  phoned  his  mother,  and  then  he  fell  asleep  in  a  chair.  Later,  he  heard  somebody  (he  thought  it  was  Susan)  say,  &quot;Aw,  Roy,  he's  wrecked,&quot;  so  he  said  a  few  words  in  return  and  walked  wobbly-legged  to  a  station  wagon.  The  next  thing  he  knew,  somebody  was  handing  him  a  sand-  wich.  He  took  it  apart,  laying  the  various  components-cheese,  toma-  toes,  alfalfa  sprouts,  two  slices  of  bread  -on  the  table.  It  occurred  to  him  that  he  wasn't  hungry.  He  said  something  to  that  effect,  and  somebody  said  some-  thing  back-Bentley,  the  guy  from  the  photo.  He  followed  Bentley  into  a  black  night.  Moisture  from  redwood  branches  dripped  onto  his  head.  The  air  seemed  to  be  eating  into  his  skin.  Bentley  unlocked  the  door  of  a  cabin  that  smelled  of  pitch  and  camphor,  and  said  something  about  extra  blankets.  Then  Shane  was  alone.  The  whirlies  hit  him,  and  he  stumbled  to  a  small,  unstable  bed.  After  he  was  under  the  covers,  the  whirlies  subsided,  and  he  was  able  to  assess  his  surroundings.  He  thought  they  were  pretty  nice.  The  only  thing  that  concerned  him  was  that  there  seemed  to  be  animals  in  the  cabin-they  didn't  scratch  or  howl,  but  he  was  aware  of  them  anyway,  lurking  just  beyond  his  line  of  vision.  HE  animals  were  ducks,  two  of  them,  with  bulbs  inside  glowing  like  hearts.  Shane  saw  them  when  he  woke  in  the  morning.  Gradually,  he  remembered  where  he  was,  along  with  the  details  of  his  arrival,  and  he  felt  disgusted  and  ashamed  and  yanked  the  covers  over  his  head.  For  some  reason,  he  started  think-  ing  about  Darren  Grady.  He  was  cer-  tain  that  Grady  had  never  pulled  such  a  dumb  stunt.  He  wondered  if  Grady  had  made  it  to  the  seminary  and  if  the  other  priests  had  shaved  off  his  hair;  he  wondered,  too,  if  Grady  would  re-  call  their  meeting  or  if  all  such  mun-  dane  occurrences  would  automatically  vanish  from  his  mind,  to  be  replaced  by  a  steady  image  of  God.  Fifteen  minutes  or  so  passed  in  this  fashion,  helping  to  temper  Shane's  guilt  and  instill  in  him  a  new  commitment  to  righteous  behavior.  He  didn't  pretend  that  he  could  ever  be  as  wise  and  good  as  Grady,  but  he  considered  it  within  his  power  to  improve.  He  got  out  of  bed,  examined  the  ducks  more  closely  -they  were  lamps-and  then,  outside  the  cabin,  he  dumped  his  remaining  pills  on  the  ground  and  crushed  them  to  dust.  The  act  was  like  drawing  breath.  Bentley's  place  was  indeed  like  a  ranch,  fenced-in  and  isolated  from  any  neighbors.  There  were  a  few  outbuild-  ings,  including  a  chicken  coop  and  a  beat-up  barn  missing  boards  from  its  siding.  Insidethe  barn,  Shane  found  bird's  nests,  rusty  tools,  and  a  bro-  ken-down  old  Chrysler  with  fish  fins.  Parts  from  the  Chrysler's  carburetor were  scattered  on  a  shelf,  leaking  oil.  Shane  expected  to  be  jumped  on  as  soon  as  he  opened  the  door  to  the  main  house,  but  nobody  seemed  to  be  around.  He  had  no  memory  of  its  inte-  rior,  except  as  a  series  of  difficult-to-  negotiate  planes  and  angles.  In  the  kitchen,  he  poured  himself  a  glass  of  orange  juice  and  sat  down  to  read  the  sports  page  ofa  day-old  paper.  He  heard  his  mother  call  to  him  from  up-  stairs.  &quot;Is  that  you,  Shane?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;Come  up  here  right  now.  I  want  to  talk  to  you.&quot;  He  poured  more  juice  and  went  up.  &quot;Where  are  you,  Susan?&quot;  &quot;In  here.  I'm  taking  a  bath.&quot;  The  bathroom  door  was  ajar;  steam  escaped  from  within.  Shane  peeked  and  saw  his  mother  in  the  tub,  under  a  layer  of  froth  and  bubbles.  Her  hair  was  pinned  up;  it  was  thick,  still  mostly  black,  with  a  few  gray  strands.  Shane  thought  she  was  immensely  beautiful.  He  couldn't  remember  how  " b"old  she  was-maybe  forty.  The  number  was  an  ancient  one,  but  he  believed  that  it  didn't  really  apply.  &quot;Don't  just  stand  there,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It's  drafty.  Come  in  and  shut  the  door.&quot;  When  he  was  inside,  she  said,  &quot;You  look  a  little  better  today.&quot;  &quot;Feel  a  little  better,&quot;  Shane  said.  &quot;How  about  a  kiss  for  theold  lady?&quot;  He  bent  down,  intend-  ing  to  kiss  her  on  the  cheek,butshe  lifted  her  arms  from  the  water  and  embraced  him.  The  sudden  movement  lifted  her  out  of  the  soapsuds,  so  that  her  breasts  were  briefly  visible.  Shane  had  seen  her  naked  before,  countless  times  -in  bathtubs  and  at  nude  beaches-  but  the  quality  of  her  flesh  seemed  different  now,  echoing  as  it  did  the  flesh  in  the  girlie  magazines  that  he  hid  inhis  room  in  Anaheim.  &quot;Oh,  Shane,&quot;  she  said,  pushing  him  away,  &quot;you  were  such  a  mess  last  night.  What  happened  to  you?&quot;  Shane  put  his  hands  inhis  pockets.  &quot;Me  and  this  friend  of  mine,  Grady,  we  bought  a  bottle  of  apple  wine  and  drank  it  at  the  bus  station.&quot;  He  was  quiet  for  a  second  or  two.  &quot;I'm  sorry  I  did  it,&quot;  he  added.  &quot;Well,  you  should  be  sorry.  You  gave  us  a  real  scare.  When  you  behave  like  that,  it  makes  me  think  you  want  me  to  feel  guilty.  I  know  I  shouldn't  have  left  you  with  Grandma  and  Grandpa  for  so  long.  You're  my  re-  sponsibility,  and  I've  done  a  poor  job  of  raising  you.&quot;  Shane  recognized  this  as  therapist  talk;  Susan  was  always  seeing  one  kind  of  counsellor  or  another.  Left  to  her  own  devices,  she  would  have  sputtered  and  thrown  something  at  him.  Once,  she'd  almost  beaned  him  with  a  ladle;  another  time,  an  entire  needlepoint  kit  had  whistled  by  his  ear.  &quot;'You  can't  raise  me,  Susan,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'm  not  spinach.&quot;  She  laughed  and  looked  directly  at  him.  &quot;No,  you're  not  spinach.  But  you'd  better  be  telling  me  thetruth  about  last  night.  It  better  not  be  pills  again.&quot;  &quot;It's  not  pills.&quot;  &quot;It  better  not  be,  because  if  you  get  &amp;\xc2\xae  caught  fooling  with  them  you  could  go  to  jail,  you  know.  It's  a  violation  of  your  probation.  I  don't  understand  how  you  got  arrested  in  the  first  place.  Who  were  those  kids  you  were  hang-  ing  around  with?&quot;  &quot;There's  nothing  wrong  with  the  kids,&quot;  Shane  said  heatedly.  &quot;The  cops  started  it.  Anyway,  Susan,  since  when  are  you  so  much  against  drugs?  You  used  to  smoke  a  joint  every  morning.&quot;  &quot;I  haven't  smoked  marijuana  in  years.&quot;  &quot;Sure,  Susan.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Don't  you  dare  talk  to  me  like  that,  Shane,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I'm  your  mother.&quot;  &quot;I  know.&quot;  &quot;I'm  not  trying  to  be  moralistic  or  anything.  I  just  want  you  to  keep  out  of  trouble.&quot;  She  stood  up  in  the  tub;  water  dripped  down  her  breasts,  all  down  herbody.  &quot;Give  me  that  towel,  will  you,  honey?&quot;  He  grabbed  a  towel  from  the  rack  and  threw  it  at  her,  much  too  hard.  She  pressed  the  towel  against  her  chest.  &quot;Now  what  is  it?&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  think  it  is?  Christ,  Susan,  don't  you  have  any  modesty?&quot;  &quot;I'm  sorry,&quot;  she  said,  embarrassed.  &quot;I  forgot  how  old  you  are.&quot;  She  wrapped  herself  tightly  in  a  terry-  cloth  robe.  &quot;Go  downstairs  and  I'll  make  us  some  breakfast.&quot;  The  eggs  she  fried  were  brown  and  fertile,  with  brilliant  orange  yolks.  She  served  them  on  red  ceramic  plates  from  [REDACTED].  The  colors  made  Shane's  head  swim,  but  he  still  ate  with  appetite.  He  was  glad  the  con-  frontation  with  Susan  was  over.  Their  future  together  no  longer  seemed  littered  with  obstacles.  As  she  moved  about  the  kitchen,  banging  pots  and  pans  in  that  careless  way  shehad,  he  felt  a  deep  and  abiding  fondness  for  her,  even  though  he  knew  that  she  had  presented  him  with  a  complicated  life  by  refusing  to  simplify  her  own.  Char-  lie  Harris  called  her  a  &quot;nonconform-  ist,&quot;  and  Shane  supposed  that  he  was  right-if  you  ordered  Susan  to  do  one  thing,  she'd  be  certain  to  do  the  opposite.  He  respected  her  independent  streak,  because  he  had  a  similar  streak  in  him;  they  were  joined  in  a  bond  forged  of  trial  and  error.  After  Susan  cleared  the  table,  she  gave  him  some  towels  to  put  in  the  cabin  and  told  him  that  she  was  going  into  town.  He  wanted  to  go  with  her,  butshe  wouldn't  let  him.  &quot;I  don't  mind  errands,&quot;  he  said.  He  wanted  to  see  what  Mendocino  looked  like  when  it  wasn't  scrambled.  &quot;I  could  help  you  carry  bags  and  stuff.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;We'll  go  tomorrow,&quot;  Susan  said  firmly.  &quot;I'll  have  more  time  then.  To-  day  I've  got  my  yoga  class  and  a  doctor's  appointment.&quot;  She  came  up  behind  him  and  hugged  him.  He  could  smell  her  sweet,  fresh  hair.  Her  breasts  pressed  against  his  backbone.  &quot;I  love  you  very,  very  much,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Now  go  get  yourself  clean.&quot;  Shane  went  dutifully  out  of  the  house,  but  he  was  worried  a  little.  The  word  &quot;doctor&quot;  had  an  awful  connota-  tion,  like  &quot;teacher&quot;  or  &quot;cop.&quot;  He  had  a  terrible  feeling  that  Susan  might  be  sick.  So  a  new  thing  began  to  haunt  him-he  ought  to  have  been  a  better  son.  He  remembered  how  in  March  his  grandmother  had  reminded  " b"him  to  mail  a  birthday  card  to  Susan,  and  how  he  had  gone  to  the  pharmacy  and  bought  himself  a  candy  bar  in-  stead.  What  possible  use  would  candy  be  when  Susan  was  in  her  grave?  You're  so  selfish,&quot;  he  said  to  himself,  kicking  at  a  pinecone.  Every  problem  in  the  world,  hesaw,  had  its  roots  in  some  falling  away  from  goodness.  HAT  afternoon,  around  lunch-  time,  Shane  was  in  the  old  barn,  sitting  behind  the  wheel  of  the  Chrysler  and  staring  at  the  bird-peo-  pled  rafters,  when  Bentley  wandered  in  and  interrupted  his  daydream,  which  had  to  do  with  driving  at  great  speeds  over  the  surface  of  the  moon.  In  person,  Bentley  looked  even  more  dis-  reputable  than  he  had  in  the  photo-  graph.  He  could  have  been  a  bow-  legged  prospector  who'd  spent  the  last  thirty  or  forty  years  eating  nothing  but  desert  grit.  His  rotten  teeth  were  like  bits  of  sandstone  hammered  into  his  gums.  &quot;How's  the  boy?&quot;  he  asked  in  a  twangy,  agreeable  voice,  leaning  his  elbows  on  thecar  door.  &quot;'The  boy's  fine,&quot;  Shane  said.  &quot;He's  just  fine.&quot;  &quot;Well,  I'm  happy  about  that.  I'd  like  to  have  the  boy  step  from  behind  the  steering  wheel  of  the  car  sothat  I  can  have  a  chat  with  him.&quot;  Reluctantly,  Shane  got  out  of  the car.  His  hands  were  balled  into  fists.  Down  in  Anaheim,  he'd  decided  that  if  Bentley  was  a  puncher,  he'd  punch  first.  &quot;Take  it  easy,&quot;  Bentley  said.  &quot;I'm  not  going  to  hit  you.&quot;  &quot;Wouldn't  put  it  past  you  to  try,&quot;  Shane  muttered.  Bentley  lifted  an  expensive  lizard-  skin  cowboy  boot  and  ground  out  the  cigarette  he'd  been  smoking  against  the  sole.  &quot;I  lost  my  taste  for  violence  a  long  time  ago,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Course,  if  I  needed  to,  I  could  still  fold  you  up  and  put  you  in  my  pocket  with  the  Marlboros.&quot;  &quot;I'm  warning  you,&quot;  Shane  said,  backing  off.  &quot;The  trouble  is,  Shane,&quot;  said  Bent-  ley,  following  him,  &quot;your  mother  and  I  got  a  good  thing  going,  and  I  don't  want  some  wise-ass  punk  from  surfer  land  to  come  around  and  spoil  it.  You  pull  the  kind  of  crap  you  pulled  last  night  one  more  time,  and  I'll  stick  you  into  a  Jiffy  bagand  mail  you  home  to  theold  folks.&quot;  &quot;You  can't  boss  me  around.&quot;  At  this,  Bentley  chuckled  a  bit,  re-  vealing  the  stumps  in  his  mouth.  \xc2\xabSure  I  can,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;So  long  as  you're  on  my  property,  and  living  off  my  kindness,  I  am  most  assuredly  your  boss.  And  here's  some  more  news,  my  friend-I'm  putting  you  to  work.&quot; When  Shane  protested,  Bentley  cut  him  short  by  jabbing  him  in  the  ster-  num.  &quot;I'm  giving  you  two  choices.  Either  you  can  work  by  yourself  at  the  ranch,  and  do  some  painting  and  cleaning,  or  you  can  work  with  me  at  the  factory.&quot;  &quot;What's  your  business?&quot;  &quot;I'm  a  manufacturer.&quot;  &quot;Yeah,  but  what  do  you  manufac-  ture?&quot;  &quot;What  I  manufacture,&quot;  said  Bent-  ley,  &quot;is  ducks.&quot;  They  went  to  visit  the  factory  in  Bentley's  station  wagon,  which  smelled  of  stale  tobacco  and  leather.  See  that  rise?&quot;  Bentley  asked  Shane,  as  they  passed  a  sloping  hillside  off  to  the  right.  &quot;If  you  were  to  walk  to  the  top  of  it  and  then  down  into  the  gully,  you'd  come  to  another  twenty-acre  parcel  I  own.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  have  another  house  there?&quot;  Bentley  gave  him  a  peculiar  look.  &quot;No  house,  no  nothing,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It  just  sits.  It's  appreciating  in  value.  We'll  have  a  picnic  there  someday.&quot;  &quot;My  grandfather,&quot;  said  Shane,  &quot;he  loves  to  barbecue.&quot;  &quot;We  don't  barbecue,&quot;  Bentley  said.  &quot;What  we  do  is  eat  that  organic  food  that  Susan  cooks.  The  woman  has  a  fear  of  meat.&quot;  He  turned  on  the  radio;  a  country  singer  was  singing  about  beer  and  divorce.  &quot;Lis-  ten  here,  boy,&quot;  Bentley  continued,  &quot;I  want  you  to  have  a  good  time  this  summer.  I'm  not  naive  about  dope.  I've  done  my  share  of  it.  Butyou  have  to  learn  yourself  some  moderation.  Mod-  eration  is  the  key.  You  keep  on  abusing  yourself  the  way  you're  going,  you'll  wind  up  in  a  pine  box.&quot;  &quot;My  grandfather  said  I'd  wind  up  in  the  peni-  tentiary.&quot;  &quot;That,  too,&quot;  Bentley  said.  The  factory  was  situ-  ated  at  the  edge  of  town,  in  a  concrete  building  that  might  oncehave  been  a  machine  shop.  Inside,  ten  or  twelve  young  longhairs,  both  men  and  women,  formed  an  assembly  line  at  long  wooden  ta-  " b"bles.  As  Bentley  had  said,  they  were  making  ducks-or  duck  lamps-by  gluing  two  pieces  of  heavy-duty  cel-  luloid  around  a  metal  stand  that  had  a  socket  at  thetop  for  a  bulb.  Once  the  duck  halves  were  glued  together,  they  were  secured  with  rubber  bands  and  left  to  dry  for  a  day  or  two.  The  excess  glue  was  later  wiped  from  the  ducks  with  solvent,  and  they  were  put  in  card-  board  boxes  and  cradled  in  excelsior.  The  wholesale  price  was  twelve  dollars  a  duck,  but  they  were  sold  in  trendy  storesfor  as  much  as  forty  apiece.  The  materials  came  from  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED].  Shane  was  shocked.  His  mind  bog-  gled  at  the  notion  that  somebody  could  earn  a  fortune  on  celluloid  ducks.  The  arithmetic  didn't  seem  right.  Forty  dollars?  Who'd  pay  forty  dollars?  A  movie  star?  Were  there  enough  duck-  loving  movie  stars  to  provide  Bentley  with  the  capital  to  own  a  ranch  and  forty-odd  acres?  Apparently  so.  But  Shane  remained  suspicious-the  scam  was  too  good  to  be  true.  He  wished  that  Harris,  who  was  always  harping  on  the  importance  of  hard  work,  could  be  there  to  watch  Bentley  as  he  lounged  around  the  shop,  smoking  cigarettes  and  joking  with  his  crew.  Harris  wouldgo  right  through  the  roof;  he'd  say  the  whole  shebang  was  un-American.  Shane  liked  the  atmo-  sphere,  though.  Nobody  treated  the  craft  of  duck-making  very  seriously.  Besides,a  tall  blond  girl  with  ironed  hair  kept  glancing  at  him  from  across  the  room;  he  fell  into  an  immediate  fantasy  about  her.  He  told  Bentley  he'd  prefer  to  work  at  the  factory  in-  stead  of  at  the  ranch.  &quot;I'llstart  you  in  the  morning,&quot;  Bentley  said.  &quot;You'll  be  a  duck-pack-  er.  You'll  pack  so  many  damn  ducks,  you'll  be  quacking  in  your  sleep.&quot;  They  locked  up  after  everybody  had  quit  for  the  day.  On  the  ride  home,  Shane's  thoughts  drifted  back  to  Su-  san,  and  he  asked  Bentley  if  anything  was  wrong  with  her.  &quot;No  way,&quot;  Bentley  said.  &quot;She's  a  fine,  fine  lady.  Absolutely  perfect.&quot;  &quot;I  mean,  is  she  sick  or  anything?&quot;  &quot;Sick?  No,  she's  not  sick.  She's  just  got  some  female  trouble.  When  you  get  older,  you'll  learn  that  every  woman  has  it  sooner  or  later.  They  can't  avoid  it,  and  you  can't  help  'em  with  it.  It's  just  something  they  have  to  go  through  on  their  own,&quot;  Bentley  said  with  a  sigh.  &quot;We'll  talk  about  it  more  when  we  get  to  the  ranch.&quot;  But  Shane  didn't  bring  up  the  subject  again  (he  was  afraid  of  what  he  might  hear),  and  Bentley  volunteered  no  further  information.  Instead,  they  returned  to  the  barn  and  played  with  the  Chrysler  until  they  were  both  cov-  ered  with  oil.  They  cleaned  the  points  and  plugs  and  reinstalled  the  carbure-  tor.  Bentley  showed  Shane  how  the  engine  had  been  modified  to  make  it  operate  at  maximum  efficiency.  &quot;Let's  fire  up  the  sumbitch,&quot;  he  said,  wiping  his  face  on  a  polka-dotted  bandan-  na.  He  let  Shane  sit  in  the  driver's  seat  and  try  the  ignition,  but  the  engine  wouldn't  turn  over.  &quot;Pump  the  ped-  al,&quot;  he  said.  Shane  pumped  it  and  tried  the  ignition  again.  The  engine  roared.  It  sounded  big  in  the  barn,  scattering  robins  and  swallows  into  the  dusk.  Shane  floored  the  pedal  briefly  and  felt  himself  transported;  energy  ran  through  him  as  though  he  were  a  Sieve.  FTER  Shane  had  been  at  the  fac-  tory  for  three  weeks,  he  sent  a  postcard  tohis  Anaheim  pal  Burt,  the  kid  who'd  actually  hit  a  cop  during  the  bust.  He  described  his  cabin,  the  red-  woods,  and  the  factory.  &quot;If  you  want  to  come  up  here,&quot;  he  wrote,  &quot;I  can  squeeze  in  another  bed  easy.  And  don't  worry  about  me  doing  any  you-know-  what.  I'm  off  that  stuff  for  good.&quot;  Twice  his  grandparents  called  tosee  how  he  was  getting  along.  He  still  felt  estranged  from  them,  and  this  was  compounded  when  they  told  him  they'd  bought  a  camper  and  were  go-  ing  to  Joshua  Tree  National  Monu-  ment  until  mid-August  unless  Shane  planned  to  come  back  before  then.  'Me?&quot;  he  asked,  sounding  wounded.  &quot;Since  when  do  I  have  plans?&quot;  For  the  next  twenty-four  hours,  he  was  sullen  and  depressed,  but  he  had  to  work  at  it,  because  he  was  having  so  much  fun  on  the  job.  Every  morning  at  eight,  he  and  Bentley  headed  off  together  into  a  coastal  fogbank  that  was  always  just  beginning  to  disperse.  They  drank  coffee  from  Styrofoam  cups  and  told  each  other  duck  jokes  while  they  watched  the  sky  separate  into  a  confetti  mist  under  which  the  town  of  Mendocino  stood  exposed,  back  from  wherever  it  went  at  night.  Shane  packed  boxes  with  a  ponytailed  guy  who  was  known  as  Eageron  ac-  count  of  his  last  name,  Beaver.  Eager  was  anything  but-he  had  a  meticu-  " b"lous  nature,  and  hetook  pains  to  be  sure  that  each  duck  was  nestled  as  comfortably  as  possible  in  its  excelsior.  He  could  have  been  packing  eggs  or  glassware.  &quot;C'mon,  Eager,&quot;  Shane  said  to  him  one  afternoon.  &quot;They're  not  alive,  you  know.&quot;  The  tall  blond  girl  was  Emma  King.  She  was  nineteen,  a  college  student.  Shane  followed  her  around  like  a  dog.  When  the  weather  was  hot,  Emma  came  to  the  factory  in  white  shorts  and  a  red  halter  top,  and  Shane  would  monitor  her  every  move-  ment  from  his  packing  station,  wait-  ing  for  her  to  reach  down  for  a  tube  of  glue  or  bend  low  for  the  X-Acto  knife  she  kept  dropping  on  the  floor.  She  had  a  boyfriend  she  saw  on  week-  ends,  but  she  told  Shane  that  she'd  go  to  the  movies  with  him  before  he  re-  turned  to  Anaheim.  &quot;I'm  in  love  with  this  heavy  girl,  she's  minmeteen!!&quot;'  he  wrote  on  another  postcard  to  Burt.  &quot;We  go  drinking  together  after  work.&quot;  This  was  almost  true,  or  at  least  at  the  outer  fringe  of  validity.  One  Friday,  Eager  Aad  invited  him  to  go  to  a  tavern  in  the  woods  where  anybody  could  get  served,  but  he'd  decided  against  it  to  avoid  trouble.  Later,  he  heard  that  Emma  had  been  there,  so  in  his  mind  they  were  linked.  He  asked  her  for  a  photo,  but  she  didn't  have  any,  so  he  borrowed  Su-  san's  camera  and  snapped  her  in  dif-  ferent  poses,  while  she  pretended  to  complain.  The  cutest  shot  was  one  of  Emma  kissing  a  duckon  its  beak.  Shane  taped  it  to  the  dashboard  of  the  Chrysler.  He  thought  of  it  ashis  car  now.  Bentley  had  promised  it  to  him  in  lieu  of  wages  if  he  could  pass  his  driver's  test.  Already,  he  was  practic-  ing.  He  did  Y-turns  and  parallel  park-  ing.  Some  evenings,  he  and  Bentley  took  a  rideto  the  ocean,  steaming  down  dirt  roads  that  were  dotted  with  Scotch  broom  and  beach  poppies.  Once,  Bentley  let  him  go  by  himself,  without  any  adult  supervision,  and  he  handled  the  Chrysler  with  such  au-  thority  and  skill  that  he  developed  a  stitch  in  his  side  from  excitement.  It  was  a  mystery  to  him  how  things  kept  changing.  Another  mystery  was  his  mother.  He'd  never  seen  her  so  happy.  He  could  not  reconcile  so  much  happiness,  in  fact,  with  scraggly,  bowlegged,  rot-  ten-toothed  Bentley.  Here  was  a  man  who  could  walk  around  for  days  with  egg  inhis  beard  and  never  even  notice.  The  scent  of  nicotine  was  embedded  in  his  clothes  and  maybe  in  his  skin.  Could  it  be  that  love  had  nothing  to  do     with  beauty?  If  Bentley  could  provoke  love,  then  so  could  a  stone  or  a  twig.  So  could  a  garbage  can.  But  there  was  no  denying  Susan's  contentment.  She  thrived  on  Bentley's  generosity.  She  seemed  to  float  around  the  house,  gliding  barefoot  an  inch  or  two  above  the  floor,  dressed  in  blouses  and  peasant  skirts  that  showed  off  her  bosomy  fullness.  She  baked  bread,  hurnmed  romantic  tunes,  and  filled  all  her  vases  with  flowers.  She  was  con-  stantly  hugging  her  egg-stained  lover,  patting  him  on  his  flat  little  prospec-  tor's  ass.  The  affection  spilled  over  to  Shane.  Susan's  arms  were  always  grasping  for  him,  making  up  for  lost  time.  She  drew  him  to  her  for  pur-  poses  of  both  measurement  and  em-  brace.  The  very  size  of  him  seemed  to  thrill  her-he'd  grown  from  almost  nothing!  &quot;Oh,  Shane,&quot;  she'd  say  in  a  husky  voice,  holding  a  hunk  of  his  cheek  between  her  thumb  and  index  finger.  &quot;You're  such  a  dear  boy.&quot;  If  Shane  hadn't  known  better,  he  would  have  sworn  that  she  was  stoned  all  the  time,  but  he'd  never  seen  any  dope  in  the  house.  As  faras  he  could  tell,  the  Bentleys  had  adopted  a  much  more  civilized  vice.  They  drank  wine-  a  bottle  or  two  every  evening,  with  Bentley  leading  the  way.  The  wine  burnished  their  faces.  It  made  them  talkative,  sentimental,  occasionally  teary-eyed.  After  dinner,  if  the  fog  wasn't  too  thick,  they'd  put  on  sweaters  and  sit  on  the  deck  and  speak  in  conspiratorial  tones  about  the  day's  events,  while  bats  sailed  about  over-  head,  like  punctuation.  When  there  was  nothing  on  TV,  Shane  sat  with  them,  shivering  no  matter  how  many  layers  of  clothing  he  wore.  &quot;Thin  blood,&quot;  Bentley  would  say,  teasing  him.  &quot;Goddam  thin  Southern  [REDACTED]  surfer's  blood.&quot;  &quot;My  blood's  fine.&quot;  &quot;It's  thin,  Shane.  It  takes  six  months  for  blood  to  adapt  to  a  new  climate.&quot;  Blood  was  yet  another  mystery.  Sometimes  Shane  thought  that  he  un-  derstood  Susan  better  than  Bentley  did,  simply  because  they  were  related  by  blood  instead  of  marriage.  Al-  though  he  and  Susan  had  often  lived  apart,  had  quarrelled  and  made  mis-  takes,  she  was  still  his  mother,  and  he  was  able,  in  a  curious  way,  toantici-  pate  her  moods  and  know  when  some-  thing  was  bothering  her.  One  night,  as  they  sat  outside,  he  saw  that  she  was  unusually  quiet,  removed  from  the  " b"conversation,  and  when  Bentley  went  into  the  house  he  asked  her  if  she'd  got  bad  news  at  the  doctor's  office-she'd  had  another  in  her  on-  going  series  of  appoint-  ments  that  afternoon.  The  question  made  him  tremble.  Suppose  she  confessed  something  aw-  ful  to  him'  Ignorance  was  a  kind  of  protec-  tion.  But  she  only  smiled  wistfully  and  pat-  ted  his  hand  and  said  no,  nothing  very  seri-  ous  was  wrong.  It  was  just  that  the  doctor  had  told  her  that  she  might  need  an  operation-mi-  nor  corrective  surgery.  She  started  to  explain  the  problem  to  him  in  clinical  terms,  but  it  sounded  indecent  somehow  to  hear  her  describe  her  body  as  though  it  were  an  engine  in  need  of  repair,  so  he  interrupt-  ed.  &quot;I  know,&quot;  he  said,  mimicking  Bentley's  sad  resignation.  &quot;Female  trouble.&quot;  He  put  an  arm  around  her,  wanting  to  say  more,  but  by  then  Bentley  was  backwith  full  wineglasses  and  a  word  about  the  rising  moon.  HANE's  driving  test  was  scheduled  for  a  Thursday  afternoon.  Bent-  ley  gave  him  permission  to  come  home  early  from  work  topractice.  He  backed  the  Chrysler  into  the  barn  several  times  without  scratching  it,  and  then  he  walked  over  to  the  house,  hoping  that  Susan  would  make  him  a  snack,  but  she'd  gone  to  town  for  her  yoga  class.  The  phone  rang  while  he  was  eating  a  boiled  hot  dog.  Darren  Grady  was  on  the  line,  calling  from  Elk,  a  town  south  of  Mendocino.  Grady  was  upset,  distressed,  talking  a  mile  a  min-  ute.  He'd  run  away  from  the  seminary.  He  was  stranded,  broke.  Shane  couldn't  believe  it.  Where  had  Grady's  wisdom  gone?  &quot;Take  it  easy,  Dar-  ren,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Everything's  going  to  be  all  right.&quot;  But  Grady  was  blubbering.  &quot;I  was  trying  to  hitch  to  your  place,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;but  this  highway  patrol,  he  kicked  me  off  the  road.  I  cooled  it  in  the  bushes  for  a  while  and  tried  again,but  here  comes  old  highway  patrol  with  hisflasher  on.  I  gave  him  the  finger  and  split  for  town.  I'm  like  a  hunted  criminal,  Shane.  You  got  to  help  me.&quot;  Shane  glanced  at  the  kitchen  clock.  He  figured  that  he  could  get  to  Elk  and  back  before  he  and  Bentley  were  scheduled  to  meet  the  state  ex-  aminer,  so  he  told  Grady  to  sit  tight.  The  drive  over  there  took  about  twenty  minutes  and  gave  him  a  se-  vere  case  of  paranoia.  Every  car  that  approached  him  seemed  from  a  dis-  tance  to  be  black  and  ominous  and  full  of  cops.  Grady  was  where  he  said  he'd  be,  in  front  of  a  restaurant.  He  was  sitting  on  the  curb  and  eating  a  hamburger-  some  ketchup  was  on  his  chin-and  drinking  a  can  of  beer.  When  he  saw  Shane,he  waved  wildly  and  let  loose  his  monkey  smile.  Shane  was  surprised  that  Grady  still  had  hair-there  was  no  bald  spot  or  anything.  The  only  truly  abused  part  of  him  was  his  Glen-  plaid  suit.  All  its  department-store  slickness  had  been  rubbed  away;  there  were  holes  in  the  knees  of  his  trousers,  as  if  he'd  been  on  a  long  pilgrimage  over  concrete.  Also,  he'd  lost  his  socks.  The  confidence  he'd  had  on  the  plane  was  gone;  now  he  was  nothing  but  fidget.  &quot;I'll  never  forget  you  for  this,  Shane,&quot;  he  said,  getting  to  his  feet.  &quot;Is  this  yours?&quot;  he  asked  in  wonder-  ment,  touching  the  Chrysler's  fins.  &quot;It's  a  mean  machine.&quot;  Shane  eyed  the  half-demolished  burger.  &quot;I  thought  you  were  broke,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  am,  but  I  talked  up  the  waitress  in  there&quot;-Grady  jerked  his  streaked  face  in  the  directionof  the  restaurant  -&quot;and  traded  her  my  Bible.&quot;  &quot;She  gave  you  beer  for  a  Bible?&quot;  &quot;Just  the  hamburger.  The  beer  I  found.&quot;  This  sounded  fishy  to  Shane.  &quot;Where'd  you  find  it?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;Some  guy  left  it  on  the  seat  of  his  car.&quot;  Grady  climbed  into  the  Chrysler.  For  a  moment,  he  seemed  collected,  drawn  virtuously  into  himself,  but  then  he  fell  apart  and  started  bawling.  &quot;'You're  the  only  damn  friend  I've  got,&quot;he  said,  blowing  his  nose  in  the  hamburger  wrapper.  Grady  told  Shane  that  he'd  been  on  the  road  for  three  days.  The  first  night,  after  he'd  snuck  out  of  the  semi-  nary,  he  hitched  to  San  Francisco  and  slept  in  the  Greyhound  station,  think-  ing  he  would  catch  a  bus  to  Anaheim  in  the  morning,  but  when  he  woke  he  realized  that  he'd  have  to  confront  his  parents  with  the  sorry  evidence  of  his  failure,  so,  instead  of  phoning  them,  he  walked  over  to  Powell  Street  and  ate  a  breakfast  of  crab  and  shrimp  at  a  place  that  was  shaped  like  the  prow  of  a  ship,  and  then  spent  twenty-two  bucks  playing  video  games  at  an  ar-  cade.  This  left  him  with  just  one  dol-  lar  to  his  name-his  emergency  dollar,  which  he  kept  folded  in  sixteenths  and  hidden  in  the  secret  compartment  of  his  wallet.  When  he  pulled  it  out,  the  slip  of  paper  on  which  Shane  had  writ-  ten  Susan's  address  and  phone  number  fell  to  the  floor.  &quot;You  get  it?&quot;  Grady  asked,  turning  toward  Shane,  who  was  paying  only  a  little  attention,  since  he  had  to  watch  for  cops.  &quot;It  was  a  sign&quot;  &quot;What  about  theball?&quot;  Shane  asked.  His  forehead  was  wrinkled  in  concentration.  &quot;Ball?  What  ball?&quot;  &quot;'The  ball  from  Zuma  [REDACTED].  Did  it  " b"come  back  while  you  were  with  the  priests?&quot;  &quot;It  never  did.&quot;  &quot;Then  why'd  you  leave?&quot;  Grady  shrugged.  His  fidgety  fingers  picked  at  his  knees  through  the  holes  in  his  pants.  &quot;It's  hard  to  be  good,&quot;  he  said.  From  the  pockets  of  his  suit  coat  he  took  two  fresh  cans  of  beer  and-  before  Shane  could  protest-popped  the  tops.  Shane  accepted  a  can  and  stuck  it  between  his  thighs.  He  hit  a  bump  and  got  doused.  On  the  second  day,  Grady  said,  he'd  reached  the  town  of  Healdsburg.  He  said  it  was  the  hottest  place  he'd  ever  been  to-hotter  than  Hell,  frankly.  In  the  evening,  when  it  got  too  dark  to  hitch  anymore,  he  wandered  to  the  town  square,  where  there  were  palm  trees  and  flowers  and  benches,  and  he  took  off  his  shoes  and  socks  and  dunked  his  feet  in  a  fountain.  The  water  felt  soothing  as  it  swirled  be-  tween  his  toes,  but  a  bunch  of  Mexi-  cans  who  were  hanging  around  the  square  kept  watching  him,  and  he  thought  they  might  knife  him  or  oth-  erwise  do  him  harm.  He  knew  this  was  an  irrational  fear,  but  it  was  fear  nonetheless,  so  he  gathered  himself  to-  gether  in  a  hurry,  slipped  his  wet  feet  into  his  shoes,  and  walked  brisk-  ly  down  a  side  street  that  led  him  to  a  vineyard,  where  he  curled  up  on  the  warm  ground  and  slept  the  night  away  under  cover  of  grape  leaves.  A  flaming  sun  woke  him  at  dawn.  He  couldn't  find  his  socks.  Their  absence  seemed  to  hurt  him  more  than  anything  else.  &quot;Everybody  knows  you're  running  away  from  something  if  you  don't  have  socks  on,&quot;  he  said,  biting  his  lower  lip.  &quot;Who's  going  to  stop  for  a  person  with  bare  ankles?&quot;  With  this,  he  finished  his  beer  in  a  gulp  and  threw  the  empty  can  out  the  window.  The  can  rattled  over  the  macadam,  bounced  two  or  three  times,  and  rolled  past  the  nose  of  a  highway-patrol  car  that  was  parked  in  the  bushes,  waiting  for  speeders.  &quot;Aw,  Grady,&quot;  Shane  said.  Grady  swivelled  around  to  look  back.  &quot;That's  the  guy  I  gave  the  finger  to,&quot;  he  said.  Shane  felt  as  though  his  body  had  been  stripped  of  a  dimension  and  then  spliced  into  a  deadly,  predictable  hor-  ror  movie.  He  tried  to  imagine  thatthe  cop  hadn't  seen  the  can-or,  better,  that  the  cop  had  decided  to  overlook  it  -but  this  didn't  work,  since  the  cop  had  left  his  hiding  place  and  was  ap-  proaching  the  Chrysler  at  a  steady  clip.  Shane  gave  Grady  the  half-  full  beer  he  had  between  his  thighs,  and  Grady  dropped  down  in  the  seat  and  drank  it  off,  then  shoved  the  empty  into  the  glove  compartment.  The  cop  came  closer.  Grady  looked  again,  and,  panicked,  said,  &quot;He's  going  to  bust  us,  Shane.  I  know  by  his  [REDACTED];  &quot;You  don't  know  for  sure.&quot;  The  cop's  flasher  went  on.  Grady  sank  lower  in  the  seat.  &quot;I'm  holding,  Shane,&quot;  he  said  morosely.  Shane  didn't  want  to  take  his  eyes  from  the  road.  &quot;You're  whet?&quot;  &quot;I'm  holding  some  speed.  I  bought  it  at  that  arcade.&quot;  He  showed  Shane  four  pills.  &quot;Should  I  throw  them  out  the  window?&quot;  The  pills  got  swallowed-Shane  couldn't  think  of  any  other  way  to  dispose  of  them.  He  and  Grady  ate  two  apiece,  which  lent  a  hallucinatory  edge  to  subsequent  events.  The  cop  was  wearing  reflector  sunglasses,  forin-  stance,  so  that  Shane  was  able  to  watch  himself  react  to  the  words  that  bubbled  from  between  the  cop's  lips  when  the  cop  pulled  them  over.  The  cop  spoke  of  littering,  of  underage  drinking,  of     operating  a  motor  vehicle  without  a  license  and  without  what  he  called  a  vehicular-registration  slip.  Eyeless,  he  led  Shane  and  Grady  to  his  car  and  locked  them  in  the  back  seat  be-  hind  a  mesh  screen.  The  pills  really  tookhold  on  the  ride  to  the  police  sta-  tion,  and  Shane  was  possessed  by  a  powerful  sense  of  urgency  and  a  con-  comitant  inability  to  stop  talking.  He  believed  that  he  had  an  important  message  to  deliver  about  the  nature  of  goodness,  and  he  delivered  it  cease-  lessly-to  the  cop,  to  the  officer  who  booked  him,  to  the  ink  of  the  finger-  print  pad,  and  to  the  coldironbars  of  his  cell.  ROY  Brntury  bailed  out  the  boys.  He  came  to  the  station  with  his  attorney,  a  fashionably  dressed  man  whose  hair  was  all  gray  curls.  The  attorney  seemed  to  know  everybody  around,  and  after  a  brief  back-room  conversation  he  reported  to  Bentley  that  the  charges-except  for  littering  -had  been  dropped.  Bentley  paid  a  stiff  fine,  then  put  the  boys  in  his  wagon  and  drove  them  to  the  ranch.  They  were  amazed  to  be  let  go  so  quickly.  &quot;You  must  be  important,  Mr.  Bentley,&quot;  Grady  said.  &quot;You  two  are  just  lucky  I've  got  some  clout,&quot;  Bentley  told  them.  &quot;A  successful  businessman  is  not  a  nobody  up  here.  I'm  a  Democrat  and  I  belong  to  the  Rotary.  But  don't  think  it's  over  yet.  You  still  got  Shane's  mother  to  [REDACTED];  Susan  exploded.  There  was  no  ther-  apist  talk  this  time.  When  Shane  came  through  the  door,  slinking  like  an  ani-  mal,  she  yelled  and  threw  a  pot  hold-  er  at  him,  and  then,  so  as  not  to  be  discriminatory,  she  threw  one  at  Grady,  too.  She  grabbed  Shane  by  the  hair  and  held  him  in  place  while  she  " b"lectured  him.  She  said  he  was  an  un-  grateful  little  bastard,  spoiled,  indif-  ferent,  snotty,  rotten  to  the  core.  He  refused  to  argue,  but  in  the  morn-  ing,  when  she  was  almost  rational  again,  he  explained  to  her  exactly  why  he  had  done  what  he'd  done,  so  that  she  would  understand  that  he  hadn't  been  frivolous  or  irresponsible.  &quot;It  was  circumstances,  see?&quot;  he  said,  sitting  forward  inhis  chair  and  kneading  his  hands.  &quot;I  couldn't  just  leave  him  in  Elk,  could  I'  How  would  you  feel  if  you  called  some  friend  of  yours  for  help  and  the  friend  said  no?&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;What  about  Roy,  Shane?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;You  could  have  phoned  him  at  the  factory,  and  he  would  have  gone  for  Darren.&quot;  &quot;But  it  was  an  emergency,  Susan.&quot;  &quot;The  only  emergency  was  that  you  didn't  think.&quot;  The  next  day  she  was  more  for-  giving,  taking  into  account  his  un-  blemished  record,  and  also  the  fact  that  he  had  been  (at  least  to  some  ex-  tent)  victimized.  She  also  agreed  that  Grady  could  stay  in  the  cabin  for  a  few  days,  provided  that  he  let  his  parents  know  where  he  was.  This  Grady  did.  &quot;Hello,  Dad?&quot;  he  said  to  his  father,  while  Shane  lis-  tened  in.  &quot;It's  me,  Darren,  your  son.  Remember  about  the  seminary?  Well,  you  were  right.  It  didn't  work  out.&quot;  In  the  cabin,  Shane  and  Grady  lay  on  their  beds  in  the  dark  andhad  long  philosophical  discussions.  Grady  said  that  when  he  got  home  he  was  going  to  forget  about  religion  and  enroll  in  a  junior  college  to  study  biology,  so  he'd  have  a  grasp  of  how  the  universe  was  put  together.  &quot;Science  today,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;it  has  the  answer  to  mysteries  that  puzzled  the  ancients.&quot;  Shane  confessed  that  he  was  dreading  his  senior  year  in  high  school;  he  would  be  an  entirely  different  person  when  he  returned  to  that  bleak,  airless  building,  yet  nobody  would  acknowledge  it.  &quot;The  system  hates  what's  real,&quot;  he  said.  Grady  agreed.  On  more  than  one  occasion,  they  talked  about  how  strange  it  is  that  sometimes  when  you  do  everything  right,  everything  comes  out  wrong.  Grady  had  examples.  &quot;I  gave  my  sister  this  kitten  for  her  birthday,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;and  she  was  allergic  to  it.&quot;  Or  &quot;Once  when  I  was  small,  I  washed  my  mom's  car  to  surprise  her,  but  I  used  steel  wool  and  scratched  up  the  paint.&quot;  Shane  had  other  questions.  &quot;If  it  was  me  stranded  in  Elk,&quot;  he  asked,  &quot;would  you  have  come  and  got  me?&quot;  &quot;You  know  it,&quot;  Grady  said,  with  emotion  crowding  his  throat.  Both  of  them  took  a  solemn  vow  never  to  touch  dope  again,  ever,  in  any  form,  no  matter  how  tempted  they  might  be.  Grady  ended  up  staying  for  better  than  two  weeks.  Several  important  things  happened  whilehe  was  around.  First,  Shane  passed  his  rescheduled  driver's  test  and  celebrated  by  pin-  striping  the  Chrysler  and  painting  flames  on  both  its  doors.  Then  he  asked  Emma  King  to  go  to  the  drive-  in  withhim.  They  went  to  a  kung-fu  double  feature  on  a  Friday  night.  She  sat  so  far  away  from  him  that  it  seemed  a  deliberate  attempt  to  deny  his  existence.  He  thought  that  maybe  older  women  expected  men  to  be  bold,  so  after  a  while  he  walked  his  fingers  across  the  seat  and  brushed  them  against  Emma's  thigh.  She  sneezed.  He  withdrew.  Later,  on  the  steps  of  her  house,  much  tohis  surprise,  she  kissed  him  full  on  the  lips  and  told  him  he  was  sweet.  He  knew  it  was  the  only  kiss  he'd  ever  get  from  her,  so,  driving  home,  he  made  a  mental  inventory  of  the  moment  and  its  various  tactile  sen-  sations.  Next,  on  a  Saturday  afternoon,  he  and  Grady  took  the  Chrysler  to  the  main  town  beach,but  it  was  crowded  with  hippies  throwing  Frisbees  to  their  dogs,  and  Shane  suggested  that  they  go  instead  to  this  great  isolated  spot  even  he  had  never  been  to  before  " b"-Bentley's  twenty  undeveloped  acres.  They  had  to  slide  under  a  barbed-wire  fence  that  had  &quot;No  Trespassing&quot;  and  &quot;Private  Property&quot;  signs  plastered  all  over  it.  The  trail  down  into  the  gully  was  steep  and  overgrown;  the  gully,  in  fact,  was  more  like  a  canyon,  with  a  stream  trickling  through  it,  and  vege-  tation  sprouting  from  the  soil.  The  vegetation  was  so  thick  and  matted  that  it  was  almost  impossible  for  them  to  distinguish  individual  plants,  but  one  of  the  plants  they  could  distin-  guish  was  marijuana.  A  few  stalky  specimens  were  growing  wild,  like  weeds.  All  Shane's  suspicions  were  confirmed  -Bentley  wes  a  grower.  &quot;That's  why  he  had  the  attorney,&quot;  he  whispered  to  Grady.  &quot;Are  you  going  to  say  anything?&quot;  &quot;Uh-uh.  No  way.&quot;  But  Shane's  conscience  bothered  him.  In  the  eyes  of  the  law,  Bentley  was  a  criminal.  Did  this  put  Susan  in  jeopardy,  too?  Would  she  be  consid-  ered  an  accessory  to  the  crime?  So  Shane  spilled  the  beans  to  Bentley.  He  told  him  about  the  find  and  waited  for  Bentley  to  react.  Bentley  tugged  at  the  strands  of  his  beard.  &quot;Well,  you  got  me,  all  right,&quot;  he  said  sheepishly.  &quot;I  did  grow  me  a  few  crops  of  Colombian  down  there  a  while  back,  before  I  met  your  mother,  but  the  whole  experience  rubbed  me  wrong.  I  had  a  couple  of  brushes  with     John  Law,  and  they  made  me  real  nervous.  That's  why  I  took  my  profits  and  went  into  ducks.  Ducks  are  as  legal  as  it  gets.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;What  about  the  plants  we  saw?&quot;  &quot;Must  be  volunteers.  That  happens  sometimes.  Stuff  grows  from  old  seeds,  leftover  seeds.  We'll  go  pull  'em  up.&quot;  They  pulled  up  all  the  marijuana  plants  in  the  gully,  arranged  them  in  a  pyre,  and  burned  them.  &quot;It's  [REDACTED];  said  Bentley.  &quot;But  it  has  to  be.&quot;  Next,  Susan  went  into  the  hospital  for  her  operation.  The  surgery  was  performed  in  the  afternoon,  and  Shane  was  allowed  to  visit  that  evening.  He  was  scared.  Susan  was  in  a  private  room.  She  was  still  groggy  from  her  anesthesia,  and  she  had  an  [REDACTED]  tube  in  her  arm.  He  thought  she  was  asleep,  butshe  called  to  him  in  a  funny,  child-  like  voice  and  asked  him  to  sit  in  a  chair  by  the  bed.  &quot;I'm  in  the  clouds,&quot;  she  said,  rubbing  his  hand.  &quot;But  are  you  O.K.?&quot;  &quot;I'm  fine,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;The  doctor  fixed  everything.  He  says  I  can  proba-  bly  have  a  baby  now.&quot;  &quot;A  baby?&quot;  You  think  I'm  too  old,  don't  you?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know,&quot;  Shane  said.  &quot;How  am  I  supposed  to  know  about  babies?&quot;  &quot;Lots  of  women  have  babies  at  my  age,&quot;  Susan  said,  rubbing  and  rubbing.  &quot;Roy  and  I  want  to  try.  Oh,  Shane  honey,  I  made  things  so  tough  on  you,    I  want  another  chance.  Don't  I  de-  serve  another  chance?&quot;  &quot;Sure,&quot;  said  Shane.  &quot;Of  course  you  do.&quot;  -  But  the  potential  baby  confused  him,  and  also  depressed  him  a  bit.  In  his  mind,  it  was  rotten-toothed,  bearded,  and  smelling  of  tobacco.  He  wondered  why  Susan  would  want  to  introduce  such  a  creature  into  the  world.  &quot;I'm  never  going  to  understand  anything,&quot;  he  complained  to  Grady  that  night.  &quot;Not  anything.&quot;  ''What's  there  to  understand?&quot;  Grady  asked.  \xc2\xab&quot;Maybe  you  are  wise,  Grady,&quot;  said  Shane.  Grady  left  at  the  end  of  the  week.  Shane  dropped  him  at  the  Greyhound  stop  in  Mendocino.  They  shookhands  in  a  special  way  they'd  devised,  with  plenty  of  interlocked  fingers  and  thumbs.  &quot;I  never  had  afriend  like  you  be-  fore,&quot;  Grady  said.  &quot;I'll  never  forget  what  you  did  for  me.&quot;  &quot;I'd  do  it  again,&quot;  said  Shane.  &quot;Any  time.&quot;  IN  late  August,  there  was  an  un-  seasonal  thunderstorm.  It  rat-  tled  windowpanes  and  made  chickens  flap  in  their  coops.  When  it  was  over,  the  morning  sky  was  clear  and  absolute,  lyfree  offog.  Shane  got  up  early  and  changed  the  oil  in  the  Chrysler.  He  filled  the  trunk  with  his  belongings  and  put  a  pairof  ducks  for  the  Har-  rises  on  the  back  seat.  Susan  was  not  entirely  recovered  from  her  surgery,  so  he  had  to  say  goodbye  to  her  in  her  bed-  room,  where  she  was  propped  up  against  pillows.  She  asked  him  again  if  he  didn't  want  to  transfer  to  a  school  in  Mendocino  and  stay  on  with  them,  but  he  told  her  that  he  missed  his  grandparents  and  his  friends.  &quot;I  might  come  back  next  summer,&quot;  he  said,  kissing  her  on  the  cheek.  &quot;You'll  probably  have  the  baby  by  then.&quot;  Bentley  stuck  fifty  dollars  in  the  pocket  of  his  jeans.  &quot;You  ain't  such  a  bad  ap-  ple,  after  all,&quot;  said  Bentley  with  a  smile.  Shane  drove  off  quickly,  with-  out  looking  back.  The  highway  was  still  slick  and  wet  from  the  rain,  and  the  scent  of  eucalyptus  was  in  the  air. "