 b"YESTERDAY  I  thought  about  Mr.  Ardamanian  and  the  time  I  let  him  make  love  to  me.  I1  say  &quot;make  love,&quot;  but  it  was  not  that,  exactly.  It  was  quite  beyond  maleness  and  femaleness,  It  was  a  strange  thing,  one  I  seldom  think  of,  not  because  I  am  ashamed  but  because  it  never  bothers  me.  When  I  do  think  back  upon  it,  I  am  filled  with  a  kind  of  passive  wonder  that  I  should  have  let  it  happen  and  that  it  never  bothered  me,  for  I  am  not  the  kind  of  woman  who  stands  still  under  the  hands  of  an  unloved  man,  nor  am  I  in  any  way  the  kind  who  willy-nilly  invites  such  treatment.  There  is  a  novel  by  Somerset  Maugham  in  which  an  actress  lets  a  stranger  sleep  with  her  for  one  night  in  a  train.  As  I  recall  it,  she  never  manages  to  call  up  any  native  shame  about  this  queer  adventure  but  instead  comes  torecollect  it  with  a  certain  smugness,  pleased  with  her  own  wild  daring.  I  do  not  feel  smug  about  Mr.  Ardamanian's  caresses;  until  yester-  day,  I  believed  myself  merely  puzzled  by  their  happening,  or  at  least  their  happening  to  me.  Yesterday  I  had  to  make  a  long  drive  alone  in  the  car.  It  was  a  hun-  dred  miles  or  so.  I  was  tired  before  I  started,  and  filled  with  a  bleak  solitari-  ness  that  gradually  became  self-con-  scious,  sothat  before  I  had  passed  through  the  first  big  town  and  got  out  into  the  vineyards  again  I  was,  in  spite  of  myself,  thinking  of  my  large  bones,  my  graying  hair,  my  occasional  deep  weariness  at  being  forty  years  old  and  harassed  as  most  forty-year-old  women  are  by  overwork,  too  many  bills,  outmoded  clothes.  I  thought  of  ordering  something  extravagant  for  myself,  like  a  new  suit-black,  orper-  haps  even  dark  red.  Then  I  thought  that  I  had  gained  some  pounds  lately,  as  always  when  I  am  a  little  miserable,  and  I  began  to  reproach  myself:  I  was  turning  slothful,  I  was  slumping,  I  was  neglecting  my  fine  femaleness  in  a  martyrlike  and  indulgent  mood  of  hyperwifeliness,  supermotherliness.  I  was  a  fool,  I  said  bitterly,  despon-  dently,  as  I  sped  with  caution  through  another  town.  I  began  to  think  about  myself  youn-  ger,  slimmer,  less  harried,  and  less  warped  by  the  world's  weight.  I  thought  with  a  kind  of  tolerant  amuse-  ment  that  when  I  was  in  my  twenties  I    never  noticed  my  poundage,  taking  for  granted  that  it  was  right.  Now,  I  re-  minded  myself  as  I  shot  doggedly  through  the  vineyards  and  then  a  little  town  and  then  the  peach  orchards  near  Ontario-now  I  shuddered,  no  matter  how  gluttonously,  from  every  pat  of  butter,  and  winced  away  from  every  encouraging  Martini  as  if  it  held  snake  venom.  Still  I  was  fat,  and  I  was  tired  and  old,  and  when  had  it  hap-  pened?  Just  those  few  years  ago,  I  had  been  slender,  eager,  untwisted  by  fa-  tigue.  I  had  been  a  good  woman,  too.  I  had  never  lusted  for  any  man  but  the  one  I  loved.  That  was  why  it  was  so  strange,  the  time  Mr.  Arda-  manian  came  to  the  housewith  my  rug.  We  were  living  near  a  college  where  my  husband  taught,  in  a  beauti-  ful  shack  held  together  by  layers  of  paint.  I  was  alone  much  of  the  time,  and  I  buzzed  like  a  happy  bee  through  the  three  rooms,  straightening  and  polishing  them.  I  was  never  ill  at  ease  or  wistful  for  company,  being  young,  healthy,  and  well  loved.  We  were  very  poor,  and  my  mother  said,  &quot;Jane,  why  don't  you  have  Mr.  Ardamanian  takea  few  of  these  old  rugs  of  mine  and  make  them  into  one  of  his  nice  hash-rugs  for  your  living  room?  It  wouldn't  cost  much,  and  anything  he  can  do  for  our  family  he  will  love  to  do.&quot;  I  thought  of  Mr.  Arda-  manian,  and  of  the  twenty  years  or  so  of  seeing  him  come,  with  great  dignity,  to  roll  up  this  rugand  that  rug  in  our  house-for  my  mother  had  a  great  many-  and  then  walk  down  to  his  car  lightly  under  the  bal-  anced  load.  He  knew  us  all,  first  me  and  my  little  sister,  then  the  two  younger  sib-  lings,  and  my  grandmoth-  er  and  the  various  cooks  we  had,  and  even  Father.  He  came  in  and  out  of  the  house,  and  watched  us  grow,  year  after  year,  while  he  cleaned  and  mend-  ed  rugs  for  us.  Mother  told  us  his  name  was  thatof  a  great  family  in  Armenia,  and,  true  enough,  every  time  since  then  when  I  have  seen  it  in  books  or  on  shopfronts,  mostly  for  rugs,     " b"I  have  known  it  to  be  part  of  his  pride.  He  was  small,  very  old  and  gray,  it  seemed,  when  I  was  a  little  girl.  He  had  a  high  but  quiet  voice,  deep  flashing  eyes,  and  strong,  white,  even  teeth.  He  called  my  mother  Lady.  That  al-  ways  pleased  me.  He  did  not  say  Missus,  or  even  Madam,  or  La-  dy  So-and-So.  He  said  Lady.  He  dressed  in  good  gray  suits,  and  although  he  rolled  up  big  rugs  and  carried  them  out  to  his  car,  he  was  never  dusty.  Mother  went  ahead  with  her  generous  plan,  and  Mr.  Ardama-  nian  did  come  to  the  little  house  near  the  college,  bearing  upon  his  old  shoulders  a  fair-  ly  handsome  hash-rug  made  of  scraps.  He  stood  at  the  door  under  the  small  pink  roses  that  climbed  every-  where,  and  he  looked  as  he  had  always  looked  to  me  over  those  twenty  years.  He  bowed,  said,  &quot;'Your  lady  mother  has  sent  me,&quot;  and  came  in.  I  felt  warm  and  friendly  toward  him,  this  strange  familiar  from  my  earliest  days,  and  as  the  two  of  us  silently  laid  the  good  solid  rug  upon  the  painted  floor,  under  my  sparse  fur-  niture,  I  was  pleased  to  be  with  him.  We  finished  the  moving,  and  the  rug  looked  fine,  very  rich  and  thick,  if  not  what  I  was  used  to  at  home-the  big,  worn  Baluchistans,  the  glowing  Bokharas.  Then-I  do  not  quite  remember,  but  I  think  it  started  by  his  saying,  in  his  rather  high,  courteous  voice,  the  one  I  knew  over  so  many  years,  &quot;You  are  married  now.  You  lookvery  happy.  You  look  like  a  woman  at  last,  and  you  have  grown  a  little  here  ...  not  yet  enough  here  .  .  .&quot;  and  he  began  very  delicately,  very  surely,  to  touch  me  on  my  waist,  my  shoulder,  my  small  young  breasts.  It  was,  and  I  know  it  even  now,  a  wonderful  feeling.  It  was  as  if  he  were  a  sculptor.  He  had  the  most  fastidi-  ously  intelligent  hands  I  had  ever  met  with,  and  he  used  them  with  the  in-  stinct  of  an  artist  moving  over  some-  thing  he  understood  creatively,  some-  thing  alive,  deathless,  pulsating  with  beauty  but  beyond  desire.  I  stood,  silent  and  entranced,  for  I  do  not  know  how  long,  while  Mr.  Ardamanian  seemed  to  mold  my  out-  lines  into  classical  loveliness.  I  looked  with  a  kind  of  adoration  at  his  remote,  aged  face,  and  felt  his  mysteriously  knowing  hands  move,  calm  as  God's,  over  my  body.  I  was,  for  those  mo-  ments  of  complete  easy-breathing  si-  lence,  as  beautiful  as  any  statue  ever  carved  in  stone  or  wood  or  jade.  I  was  beyond  reproach.  I  heard  my  husband  come  up  the  path  through  the  mimosa  trees.  The  old  man's  hands  dropped  away.  I  went  to  the  door,  unruffled,  and  I  intro-  duced  the  two  men.  Then  Mr.  Arda-  manian  went  gracefully  away,  and  it  was  not  until  an  hour  or  so  later  that  I  began  to  remember  the  strange  scene  and  to  wonder  what  would  have  happened  if  he  had  led  me  gently  to  the  wide  couch  and  made  love  to  me  in  the  way  I,  because  of  my  youngness,  most  easily  understood.  I  felt  a  vague  shame,  perhaps,  because  of  my  up-  bringing  and  my  limited  spiritual  vo-  cabulary,  and  the  whole  thing  puzzled  me  in  a  very  minor  and  peripheral  way.  There  had  been  no  faintest  spark  of  lust  between  us,  no  fast  urgent  breath,  no  need.  .  ..  O  I  found  myself  thinking  of  all  this  yesterday,  alone  in  the  car.  I  felt  bitter,  seeing  myself,  toward  the  end  of  the  tiring  trip,  as  a  thickening  exhausted  lump  without  desire  or  de-  sirability.  I  thought  fleetingly  of  the  tall,  slim,  ripe  woman  who  had  stood  under  those  ancient  hands.  When  I  got  to  my  mother's  house,  I  needed  quiet  and  a  glass  of  sherry  and  reassuring  family  talk  to  jolt  me  out  of  a  voluptuous  depression.  Mind  you,  it  was  not  being  forty  that  really  puzzled  and  hurt  me;  it  was  simply  that  I  had  got  that  far  along  without  realizing  that  I  could  indeed  grow  thicker  and  careless,  and  let  myself  eat  and  drink  too  much,  and  wear  white  gloves  with  a  hole  in  them,  and  in  general  become  slovenly.  Almost  the  first  thing  my  mother  said  was  that  she  was  waiting  for  Mr.  " b"Ardamanian.  I  jerked  in  my  chair.  It  seemed  too  strange,  to  have  thought  about  him  that  morning  for  the  first  time  in  many  years.  Suddenly  I  was  very  upset,  for  of  all  things  in  the  world  I  did  not  want  that  old  man  who  had  once  found  me  worth  touch-  ing  to  see  me  tired,  mopish,  middle-  aged.  I  felt  cruelly  cheated  at  this  twist  and  I  cried  out,  &quot;But  he  can't  be  alive  stilll  Mother,  he  must  be  a  hundred  years  old.&quot;  She  looked  at  me  with  some  surprise  at  my  loud  protest  and  said,  &quot;Almost.  But  he  is  still  a  good  rug  man.&quot;  I  was  stunned.  It  seemed  a  proof  to  me  of  all  my  dour  thoughts  during  the  long  ride.  Oh,  the  hell  with  it,  I  thought;  what  can  it  matter  to  an  old  ghost  that  I'm  no  longer  young  and  beautiful,  if  once  I  was,  to  his  peculiar  vision?  &quot;That  hideous  hash-rug  fell  apart,&quot;  I  said  ungraciously,  and  paid  no  heed  to  my  mother's  enigmatic  gaze.  When  he  came,  he  did  look  some-  what  older-or,  rather,  drier-but  certainly  not  fifteen  or  eighteen  years  so.  His  temples  had  sunk  a  little,  and  his  bright,  even  teeth  were  too  big  for  his  mouth,  but  his  dark  eyes  flashed  politely,  and  he  insisted  on  moving  furniture  and  carrying  in  the  clean  rolls  of  Oriental  carpet  without  any  help.  He  performed  neatly,  a  graceful  old  body  indeed.  &quot;Do  not  move,  Lady,&quot;  he  said  to  my  mother,  and  he  whisked  a  small  rug  under  her  footstool  without  seeming  to  lift  it.  I  stood  about  aimlessly,  watch,  Unexpected  Visitors  ing  him  and  thinking  about  him  and  myself,  ina  kind  of  misery.  At  the  end,  when  he  had  carried  the  dirty  rugs  out  to  his  car  and  had  told  my  mother  when  he  would  come  back,  he  looked  at  me,  and  then  stepped  quite  close.  &quot;Which  one  are  you?&quot;&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;I'm  the  oldest,&quot;  I  said,  wondering  what  he  would  remember  of  me.  And  immediately  I  saw  that  it  was  everything,  everything-not  of  me  as  a  little  growing  child  but  of  me  his  creation.  His  eyes  blazed,  and  fell  in  an  indescribable  pattern  from  my  cheeks  to  my  shoulders  to  my  breasts  to  the  hidden  cave  of  my  navel,  and  then  up  over  the  bones  of  my  ribs  and  down  again  to  the  softened  hollows  of  my  waist.  We  were  back  in  the  silent  little  house  near  the  college,  and  I  was  filled  with  a  sense  of  complete  relaxation,  to  have  this  old  man  still  recognize  me,  and  to  have  him  do  with  his  eyes  what  oncehe  had  so  strangely  and  purely  done  with  his  hands.  I  knew  that  it  was  something  that  would  never  hap-  pen  again.  What  is  more,  I  knew  that  when  I  was  an  old  woman  it  would  strengthen  me,  as  it  strengthened  me  that  very  minute  when  I  was  tired  and  forty  and  thick,  that  once  Mr.  Ardamanian  had  made  me  into  a  statue.  The  question  about  seduction  still  remains,  of  course,  in  an  academic  way.  Would  he  have  done  any  more  to  me  than  what  he  did,  and,  indeed,  would  anything  more  have  been  possi-  ble-not  from  the  standpoint  of  his  indubitable  virility,  no  matter  what  his  age,  but  from  that  of  our  spiritual  capacity  to  pile  nectar  into  the  brim-  ming  cup?  I  can  never  know,  nor  do  I  care.  I  was  filled  with  relief,  standing  passively  there  before  my  mother  in  the  familiar  room.  I  felt  strong  and  fresh.  He  smiled  his  gleaming  smile,  bowed  to  my  mother,  and  then  said  directly  to  me,  &quot;Lady,  it  is  good  that  I  met  you  again.  Goodbye.&quot;  When  he  had  gone,  as  poised  as  a  praying  mantis  under  his  last  roll  of  rugs,  my  mother  said,  pretending  to  be  cross,  &quot;I  thought  I  was  his  Lady,  not  you!&quot;&quot;  She  smiled  remotely.  Mother  and  I  talked  together  through  the  afternoon,  about  children  and  bills  and  such,  but  not  about  Mr.  Ardamanian.  There  seemed  no  need  to,  then  or  ever. "