 b"SECOND AVENUE, once  a  busy  com-  S  mercial  thoroughfare,  has  been  all  but  destroyed  recently,  over-  run  by  migrating  herds  of  enormous,  baying  buses.  These  great  lumbering  vehicles,  which  travel  in  groups  of  about  eight  or  nine,  rumble  through  the  area  each  morning,  scattering  frightened  pedestrians  into  the  shut-  tered  doorways  of  newly  abandoned  shops.  Approximately  the  size  of  an  ele-  phant,  the  once  solitary  bushas  baffled  the  scientific  community  by  beginning  to  exhibit  herding  behavior.  Just  be-  fore  dawn,  the  dusty  caravans  make  their  way  downtown,  dawdling  at  in-  tersections,  where  they  emit  their  eerie  honking  calls,  nudging  each  othera  little  before  resuming  their  long  jour-  ney.  Last  January,  the  Federal  Carrier  Protection  Agency  designated  buses  an  endangered  vehicle.  Since  then,  Sec-  ond  Avenue  has  drawn  international  crowds  of  omnibus  watchers  and  con-  veyance  researchers  to  the  spectacle  of  our  rare  and  powerfully  beautiful  Grummans.  Residents  and  local  merchants,  however,  are  less  apprecia-  tive  of  the  migrating  herds.  &quot;They've  ruined  the  neighborhood,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Edna  Hardee,  one  of  a  group  of  anti-  busdemonstrators  gathered  at  Sev-  enty-ninth  Street.  &quot;Just  look  what  they've  done  to  the  ecological  balance.  They  travel  in  a  pack,  honking  and  squeaking  and  frightening  off  all  the  smaller  vehicles.&quot;  Of  the  flocks  of  yel-  low  cabs  and  shore  fjitneys  that  used  to  frequent  Second  Avenue,  only  an  oc-  casional  hardy  Checker  now  ventures  into  the  territory.  In  front  of  Lam-  ston's,  a  perambulator  stands-empty.  Several  shooting  incidents  have  been  reported  recently.  Police  say  they  in-  volved  deer  hunters  from  [REDACTED]  in-  vited  to  the  area  by  the  more  reaction-  ary  members  of  Young  Americans  Against  Herds  (YAAH!).  The  hunters  picked  up  the  trail  of  a  herd  at  Thir-  ty-fourth  Street  and,  after  stalking  it  for  twenty-five  minutes  in  the  early-  morning  fog,  surprised  seven  Grum-  man  Flxibles  placidly  grazing  a  mail-  boxon  the  southwest  corner  of  Twenty-third  Street.  Shots  were  fired,  and  two  of  the  buses  fell  before  the  rest  of  the  startled  herd  escaped  around  the  corner.  A.S.P.C.A.  volunteers  trying  to  pull  the  fallen  buses  to  safety  vied  with  hunters  attempting  to  tie  the  BUS  HERDS!  Grummans  onto  the  roofs  of  their  sta-  tion  wagons.  &quot;Poachers  are  a  great  threat  to  these  worthy  vehicles,&quot;  said  noted  bus  re-  searcher  Charles  Pearly  in  an  emo-  tional  appearance  on  &quot;Good  Morning  America.&quot;  &quot;There  is  a  flourishing  black  market  in  bus  pelts.  Since  1981,  the  [REDACTED]  Bus  and  Wildlife  Department  has  confiscated  six  million  dollars'  worth  of  merchandise  manufactured  from  illegally  slaughtered  buses.  Why,  just  last  week  a  raid  on  a  Queens  ware-  house  uncovered  a  huge  cache  of  pow-  dered  bus  horns  destined  to  be  sold  as  aphrodisiacs.&quot;  Dr.  Pearly,  professor  emeritus  at  Cornell  University's  Divi-  sion  of  Bus  Sciences,  is  president  of  the  Interfaith  Bus  Relief  Corps,  a  non-  profit  organization  established  in  1979  to  collect  tokens  for  starving  buses.  A  normal  bus  consumes  fifteen  hundred  pounds  of  tokens  per  day,  and  the  natural  supply  has  dwindled  to  dan-  gerously  low  levels.  In  theory,  the  buses  could  subsist  on  coins  alone,  but  because  of  weather  conditions  this  year,  there  has  been  a  disappointing  coin  crop.  Also,  a  subspecies  native  to  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  known  as  the     &quot;Relent!&quot;  41  &quot;White,&quot;  because  of  its  distinctive  coloration,  has  joined  several  herds  of  Grumman  and  General  Motors  vehi-  cles,  almost  doubling  the  population  and  causing  an  alarming  concentra-  tion  in  the  region.  Said  Dr.  Pearly,  &quot;Poachers  just  slaughter  these  weak-  ened  transports.&quot;  Captain  Jiminy  Strout,  leader  of  the  [REDACTED]  hunters,  responded  to  Dr.  Pearly's  charges  by  saying  he  was  &quot;only  trying  to  help.&quot;  According  to  Captain  Strout,  the  hunters  must  step  in  now  that  man  has  decimated  the  El  and  the  West  Side  Highway,  the  bus's  natural  predators.  Conservationists,  outraged  by  the  shootings,  held  a  press  conference  at  Loews  Tower  East,  during  which  Walt  Gawd,  bus  biologist  and  chair-  man  of  the  Save  Our  Surface  Trans-  portation  Protection  Foundation  (SOS),  raised  the  issue  of  bus  shooting  as  a  sport.  &quot;How  many  buses  are  felled  every  year  by  the  hunter's  bullet?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;So-called  sportsmen  have  al-  ready  wiped  out  the  double-decker,  just  because  it  was  a  sitting  duck.&quot;  SECOND  AvEnur  has  long  been  a  haven  for  the  migrating  bus;in  fact,  it  is  believed  that  Second  Avenue  was  originally  a  pathway  beaten  out  by  prehistoric  motor  coaches  moving  south.  But  researchers  are  still  not  sure  where  these  impressive  vehicles  come  from  or  where  they  go.  And  although  there  have  been  several  sightings  of  individual  rogue  buses  charging  up  Third,  the  actual  northbound  route  has  never  been  identified.  Even  so,  scientists  say,  they  do  know  enough  about  bus  behavior  to  predict  that  any  disruption  of  herding  or  migration  patterns  would  destroy  the  once  mighty  bus  altogether.  &quot;Buses  been  coming  by  here  long  as  I  remember,&quot;  one  gray-haired  man  commented.  &quot;Grummans  now.  And  them  white  ones.  But  there  used  to  be  green  ones  all  along  here.  And  they  didn't  travel  in  packs,  neither.  No,  sir.  They  just  come  along,  all  by  them-  selves,  one  after  t'other.  They  gone  now.  Gone  forever.&quot;  Concerned  citizens,  like  Judith  Needleham-Stark,  of  the  Agency  for  a  Very  Nice  [REDACTED],  attributed  the  extinction  of  the  green  city  bus  to  officials  who  had  them  painted  blue.  &quot;We  warned  them  what  would  hap-  pen,&quot;  Ms.  Needleham-Stark  recalls.  &quot;But  there  is  so  much  ignorance  about  buses.&quot;  "