 b"MY  brother's  wife,  Corky,  is  in  M  the  wicker  chair  in  my  bed-  room  tweezing  her  eyebrows,  my  magnifying  mirror  an  inch  from  the  tip  of  her  nose,.  When  I  first  met  Corky,  she  was  a  student  at  Hunter;  she  wore  long  Indian  dresses  and  high  heels  and  had  long  hair.  Now  she  wears  running  shoes  and  baggy  slacks,  has  a  sort  of  bowl  haircut,  and  goes  by  her  nickname  instead  of  Charlotte.  Plucking  her  eyebrows  and  being  pregnant  are  two  of  her  new  self-  improvement  plans,  along  with  taking  driving  lessons.  She  has  come  into  the  city  from  Morristown  to  spend  the  weekend,  while  [REDACTED]-new  hus-  band,  my  brother-is  away  on  busi-  ness.  She  is  sitting  by  the  telephone,  waiting  for  her  call  to  the  obstetrician  to  be  returned.  [REDACTED],  on  the  phone  last  night,  insisted  that  Corky  check  out  whether  it  was  all  right  for  her  to  continue  with  her  aerobic  dance  classes.  Her  end  of  the  conversation  was  a  long  protest  about  his  trying  to  make  her  into  a  neurotic  now  that  she  was  pregnant.  She  gave  me  the  phone  and  asked  me  to  reason  with  him,  but  I  stayed  out  of  it.  He  and  I  discussed  the  progress  of  the  wisteria.  The  wisteria  in  the  back  garden  has  leafed  out  and  shot  up  four  stories  to  my  roof,  where  it  cascades  over  the  low  brick  railing  and  has  worked  its  way  through  the  skylight.  In  the  morning,  I  find  crum-  pled  leaves  and  small  pur-  ple  flowers  scattered  over  my  sheet.  I'm  stretched  out  on  the  bed,  printing  a  letter  to  my  grandmother.  My  grandmother  can't  read  my  writing,  but  she  is  in-  sulted  when  I  type.  She  calls  my  typed  letters  &quot;business  letters.&quot;  I  have  a  piece  of  lined  paper  un-  derneath  my  writing  paper  so  that  I  will  remember  to  print  large  enough.  As  my  letters  go  on,  they  tend  to  look  as  if  they'd  been  put  through  a  funnel.  I  reread  my  last  sentence:  &quot;'as  SOON  As  THE  WIS-  TERIA  GROWS,  THOU-  SANDS  OF  TINY  ANTS  CLIMB  UP  AND  COME  IN  THROUGH  THE  SCREENS.&quot;  It  seems  not  just  distressing  but  alarming,  put  in  such  large,  blocky  letters.  The  phone  rings,  and  Corky  pounces  on  it.  &quot;I  feel  so  silly  asking  this,  but  my  husband  ...  Oh,  the  nurse  ...  But  I  don't  have  any  bleeding!  ...Is  this  because  you  think  I'm  old?&quot;  I  ink  out  my  last  line  and  print  instead,  &quot;ISN'T  IT  AMAZING  THAT  A  HUGE  WISTERIA  VINE  IS  THRIVING  RIGHT  HERE  IN  NEW  YORK  CITY!&quot;  I  go  into  the  living  room.  The  view  out  of  the  tall  windows  is  of  the  projects  the  next  street  over.  Below  me,  in  the  back,  are  gardens,  with  high  walls  dividing  them.  Next  door,  two  actors  stand  at  opposite  ends  of  their  garden,  each  reading  aloud  from  an  identical  book.  \xc2\xab\xc2\xa9  What  if  it  tempt  you  toward  the  flood,  my  lord,  or  to  the  dreadful  summit  of  the  cliff  ..  .'  &quot;  &quot;Again!&quot;  the  actor  from  the  far  end  of  the  garden  hollers.  \xc2\xab\xc2\xa9  What  if  it  tempt  you  ...  &quot;  &quot;Oh,  yeah.  'It  waves  me  still.  Go  on,  I'll  follow  thee.&quot;  &quot;  As  I'm  watching,  trying  to  block  out  Corky's  mounting  hysteria,  I  seea  kid  of  about  ten,  who  has  hauled  him-  self  up  so  that  he  can  see  over  the  fence  of  the  adjacent  garden.  He  throws  something-a  stone  or  a  bottle  cap-  and  screams,  &quot;Get  back  where  you  belong,  faggots!,&quot;  drops  to  the  ground,  and  runs  toward  his  back  door.  Then  I  hear  the  ice-cream  truck  come  down  the  street,  playing  its  carrousel  music.  As  my  grandmother  recently  wrote  me  (with  a  fountain  pen,  flawlessly  exe-  cuting  the  Palmer  method),  &quot;Sandy  darling,  everyone  in  New  York's  al-  ways  worked  up.&quot;  &quot;All  right,  I'll  do  it  your  way,&quot;  Corky  is  saying,  as  I  go  back  to  the  bedroom  and  sit  on  the  bed.  She  sounds  like  some  brave  actress  in  a  nineteen-  forties  movie.  This  notion  is  rein-  forced  by  her  bottom  lip,  quivering.  WO  o'clock  in  the  morning,  and  Corky  and  I  are  the  last  people  in  the  restaurant  except  for  Wyatt,  my  longtime  friend.  He's  just  shaken  some  vegetables  around  ina  panand  brought  them  to  the  table,  along  with  a  bottle  of  pepper  vodka.  A  truck  rat-  tles  by.  Corky  and  I  share  the  last  slice  of  lemon-meringue  pie.  Wyatt's  key  ring  is  on  the  table:  four  keys  to  the  restaurant,  so  he  can  set  the  alarms  be-  fore  he  leaves.  &quot;This  place  is  pretty  crazy,&quot;  he  says,  picking  up  a  snow  pea.  &quot;I  thought  that  nothing  could  be  worse  than  teaching  fifth-grade  grammar.  But  knowing  all  the  rhymes  on  the  jukebox  is  probably  worse  than  teaching  grammar.&quot;  He  takesa  joint  out  of  his  shirt  pocket.  &quot;You  know  what  happened  tonight?  My  father's  accountant  came  in  here  with  a  guy.  They  had  on  T-  shirts  with  swirls  of  pink  and  blue  and  green-it  would  have  been  good  protective  coloration  in  a  basket  of  Easter  eggs.  The  accountant  almost  died  when  he  saw  me.  Then,  Tuesday  night,  my  old  Hackensack  heartthrob,  Dorie  Vesco,  came  in.  I  saw  her  sit-  " b"ting  at  the  bar.  She  was  all  tied  up.  She  had  on  one  of  those  blouses  that  lace  up  the  front  and  those  shoes  with  strings  that  you  wrap  around  your  ankles.  The  guy  she  was  with  was  a  real  jerk.  Dorie  Vesco  and  I  recognized  each  other  at  the  same  instant,  and  when  I  hugged  her  the  guy  said,  'This  some  kind  ofa  setup&quot;&quot;  &quot;  He  laughs.  &quot;Wyatt  and  the  cat,&quot;  he  says,  rubbing  his  foot  over  an  orange  cat  that  has  just  darted  under  the  table.  &quot;She's  been  around  here  longer'n  me.  Longer  thananybody.  Cat  can't  set  alarms,  Wyatt  can.&quot;  We  are  in  what  used  to  be  Jason's  favorite  restaurant.  I  used  to  live  with  Jason;  now  we're  apart.  After  Wyatt  took  a  job  as  a  waiter  here,  though,  Jason  stopped  coming.  &quot;Honey,  it's  just  too  odd,&quot;Jason  said  to  me  one  night.  &quot;I  don't  feel  comfortable  being  waited  on  by  the  same  person  I  always  call  when  I  have  a  question  about  the  correct  use  of  apostrophes.&quot;  When  we  go  out,  Wyatt  hands  Corky  the  keys  to  the  car.  I  open  the  back  door,  muttering  about  what  a  bad  idea  this  is,  because  she  has  only  had  three  driving  lessonsso  far.  She  no  more  than  pulls  away  from  the  curb  than  a  cop  car  comes  up  alongside  us  and  stops  for  the  red  light.  I  catch  one  cop's  eye  and  look  away.  Our  car  is  angled  strangely  through  two  lanes.  No  cars  are  in  back  of  usor  around  us.  Next,  one  of  the  cops  catches  Corky's  eye.  &quot;You  know  what?&quot;  he  calls  over.  &quot;If  you  were  a  red  Toyota  with  six  guys  inside,  we'dhave  found  what  we're  looking  for.&quot;  Then  the  cop  in  the  driver's  seat  leans  forward  and  hollers,  &quot;Now  he'll  tell  you  that  if  you  twinkled  you'd  be  the  North  Star,  and  we  could  follow  you  so  we  don't  get  lost.&quot;  The  light  changes  and  the  cop  car  takes  off,  no  siren,  at  about  sixty  miles  an  hour.  &quot;Still  nothing  behind  us,&quot;  Wyatt  says,  patting  Corky's  leg.  &quot;First  rule  of  driving:  Many  other  dangerous  people  are  driving  at  the  same  time  you  are,  and  you  must  drive  defen-  sively.&quot;  $  ID  you  think  you'd  marry  Ja-  son?&quot;  Corky  says.  I  never  lived  in  a  dorm  when  I  was  incollege,  but  Corky  did.  Lights-out  is  still  a  signal  to  her  to  start  talking.  &quot;We  almost  got  married,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;I  told  you  about  that.  The  summer  he  bought  the  house  in  Garrison.  We  were  as  stupid  as  everybody  else  who's  breaking  up.  We  kept  finding  something  to  do  that  interested  us,  so  we  could  pretend  that  we  were  interested  in  each  other.&quot;  &quot;What  about  youand  Wyatt?&quot;  &quot;I've  always  thought  that  he  loved  somebody  else.  We  had  quite  a  talk  about  that  years  ago,  and  he  said  I  was  wrong.  Then  again,  he  never  men-  tioned  Dorie  Vesco  until  tonight.&quot;  &quot;[REDACTED]  told  me  a  week  before  our  wedding  that  he'd  been  engaged  twice  before.&quot;&quot;  She  lights  a  cigarette.  &quot;Which  was  the  one  who  flushed  his  credit  card  down  the  toilet?&quot;  &quot;Sally.&quot;  &quot;And  Sondra's  the  one  who  swal-  lowed  the  ring?&quot;  &quot;A  citrine  with  diamonds.  Our  grandmother's.  When  [REDACTED]  took  her  to  the  emergency  room  and  she  filled  out  the  form,  she  said  that  she'd  swal-  lowed  a  bone.&quot;  &quot;She  had  to  be  nuts  not  to  level  with  the  people  in  the  emergency  room,&quot;  Corky  says.  1  roll  over  tosee  Corky's  face  in  the  half-dark.  She  has  unrolled  the  futon  sofa  into  a  maton  the  bedroom  floor,  where  she  will  sleep  tonight.  &quot;You  know  the  rest  ofthat  story,  don't  you?&quot;  I  say.  &quot;The  next  day,  he  got  a  book  about  training  puppies.  He  took  it  home  and  showed  her  the  part  where  they  say  not  to  worry  if  your  dog  swallows  a  rock  unless  it  chokes.  A  joke,  but  when  they  went  to  couples  therapy  she  kept  bringing  up  the  dog  book.&quot;  OOKING  back,  I  can  see  how  Ja-  son  liked  to  manipulate  me.  He  relied  on  being  a  Southern  boy  when  he  wanted  something.  He  talked  about  the  house  he  wanted  to  buy  as  our  opportunity  to  &quot;live  life  on  the  planta-  tion.&quot;  Even  before  we  went  to  look  at  the  property  in  Garrison,  he  was  plan-  ning  the  afternoon  croquet  games  we  were  going  to  play  there;  we'd  play  croquet  and  drink  mint  juleps,  hean-  nounced.  When  Jason  really  wanted  something,  he  began  by  making  it  into  some  kind  of  fantasy  -the  more  exag-  gerated  and  ridiculous  the  better.  He  said  that  made  it  easierto  cope  with  whatever  problems  came  up  later.  We  had  lived  together  in  the  city  for  more  than  a  year,  and  he  was  restless  and  wanted  a  place  in  the  country.  So  he  bought  thebig  yellow  house  up  the  [REDACTED]  in  Garrison  and  he  took  a  leave  of  absence  from  his  job  and  spent  a  month  that  autumn  painting  it  white.  I  glazed  windows  and  helped  him  sand  the  floors,  and  by  the  time  the  house  started  to  shape  up  I  loved  it  " b"In  the  golden  age  the  road  was  all:  On  the  right  side  were  gardens  we  would  enter  only  toexit  on  the  left-  the  left  was  always  guarded  by  fences.  This  would  happen  a  thousand  times.  For  the  room  to  be  elsewhere  only  a  candle  was  needed.  Our  faces  were  buried  in  books  forever  it  seemed.  And  the  key  to  the  cellar  was  ours,  like  the  un-  forgettable  girl  of  the  waterfall  bathing  within  us;  space  and  vision  were  multiplied  in  the  golden  age.  In  the  golden  age  that  was  really  copper  there  were  many  nights  of  pouring  rain.  An  awful  palm  fed  up  with  the  city  went  to  the  jungle.  And  after  the  mail  came  the  assassin.  more  than  Jason  did.  In  the  mornings,  I  had  coffee  and  watched  the  sparrows  and  the  squirrel  fighting  over  the  bird-  seed  in  the  hanging  feeder  outside  the  kitchen.  I  began  to  wait,  in  the  late  afternoon,  for  the  sky  to  get  pale  and  the  sun  to  set.  Jason  took  to  sleep-  ing  late  and  reading  magazines  and  watching  the  evening  news.  When  he  went  back  to  the  law  firm  where  he  worked  in  New  York,  I  stayed  on.  Wyatt  visited.  Jason  called  and  said  that  he  couldn't  come  up  for  a  couple  of  weekends  because  he  had  so  much  paperwork.  The  next  weekend,  Corky  and  my  brother  drove  up,  and  just  before  they  left  she  took  me  by  the  arm  in  the  driveway  and  walked  me  around  to  the  back  of  their  car.  &quot;I'd  say  that  if  you  want  to  keep  Jason  you  ought  to  get  back  to  the  city,&quot;  she  said.  But  by  then  I  wanted  to  believe  what  Jason  said  he  believed  when  he  bought  the  house:  that  New  York  City  was  a  \n\nbattle,  that  it  was  important  to  escape  to  a  place  where  you  didn't  always  have  to  be  on  guard,  that  it  was  impor-  tant  to  remember  that  it  was  a  green  world.  Late  in  November,  when  I  did  leave  the  house  at  last  and  took  the  train  back  to  New  York,  I  walked  into  our  apartment  and  felt  like  a  stranger.  He  was  still  at  the  office.  I  wandered  around,  a  little  surprised  that  my  things  were  still  there-a  pair  of  my  sandals  under  the  chair  in  the  bedroom\n\nwhere  I  always  kicked  them.  Walking  around  the  bedroom  verified  what  I  hadn't  been  able  to  admit  in  Garrison:  that  it  really  was  over  between  us.  Seeing  my  things  there  didn't  make  me  feel  at  home;  it  made  me  realize  that  it  had  always  been  Jason's  apartment.  He  had  hung  up  the  Audubon  prints  his  parents  had  given  us  for  Christmas;  I'd  never  liked  them-they  were  like  prints  on  the  walls  of  some  country  inn-and  here  they  were,  out  in  plain  view.  They  were  on  the  north  wall,  which  he  had  always  insisted  be  left  empty  because  pictures  would  spoil  the  beauty  of  the  bricks.  When  Jason  came  home  from  work,  we  made  drinks  and  went  up  to  the  roof  and  talked.  It  was  clear  that  we  wouldn't  stay  together,  but  he  seemed  to  take  it  as  a  foregone  conclusion.  When  I  walked  over  to  where  he  stood  by  the  rail-  ing,  it  surprised  me  to  see  that  he  had  tears  in  his  eyes.  " b"  &quot;Why  be  upset?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It's  not  your  fault.  We  both  feel  the  same  way.&quot;  &quot;When  are  yougoing  to  stop  taking  everything  so  casually?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;As  if  you  didn't  matter.  You're  one  of  the  nicest  people  I've  ever  known,  and  you  made  areally  bad  choice  about  me,  way  back.  I  feel  guiltythat  I  lived  with  youand  let  you  assume  that  I  loved  you.&quot;  You  did  love  me,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Honey,  I'm  telling  you  the  truth,&quot;  he  said  sadly.  &quot;Don't  forget  what  goed  Southern  manners  I  have.  You  used  to  make  fun  of  that.  I  wanted  to  love  you.  I  acted  as  if  I  loved  you.&quot;  When  I  left,  I  walked  to  the  restau-  rant  and  satat  the  bar,  waiting  for  Wyatt  to  get  off  work.  Jason  didn't  love  me  the  time  he  said  that  on  Satur-  day  nights  he  never  wanted  to  go  out  but  only  wanted  to  listen  to  Keith  Jarrett's  &quot;The  Mourning  of  a  Star&quot;  and  make  love?  Not  when  I  read  him  Firbank's  &quot;The  Flower  Beneath  the  Foot&quot;  and  he  laughed  until  he  had  to  cover  his  face  and  then  wipe  tears  away  with  the  palms  of  his  hands?  Not  at  Thanksgiving,  when  we  were  do-  ing  the  dishes  and  he  kept  putting  his  arm  around  my  waist  and  raising  my  soapy  hand  out  of  the  water  to  waltz  me  out  ofthe  kitchen?  I  saw  Jason  one  more  time  after  that  " b"night-when  I  went  there  on  a  Sun-  day  afternoon  in  February,  after  I'd  moved.  I  wanted  us  to  be  friends.  I  climbed  to  the  fourth  floor,  certain,  for  the  millionth  time,  that  the  ancient  stairs  were  going  to  cave  in.I  sat  in  one  of  the  canvas  director's  chairs  and  let  him  pour  me  a  cup  of  coffee  from  the  Melitta  coffeepot.  It  was  my  pot,  and  I'd  forgotten  to  pack  it.  Jason  didn't  offer  to  give  it  back.  He  told  me  about  the  Garrison  house;  he  had  put  it  up  for  sale,  and  a  television  producer  and  his  wife  had  made  an  offer.  They  were  negotiating.  As  we  talked,  my  eye  caught  the  bright-pink  spine  of  the  Firbank  book  on  the  topmost  bookshelf  across  the  room.  Maybe  he  was  har-  boring  secret  grudges.  Maybe  there  were  things  I  had  taken  home  with  me  inadvertently.  He  got  all  the  Keith  Jarrett  records.  My  down  vest.  The  Firbank.  Before  I  moved,  he  had  helped  me  by  separating  my  books  and  records  from  his  and  putting  mine  in  cartons.  I  didn't  unpack  for  weeks,  so  it  took  a  while  to  realize  how  many  were  missing.  If  he'd  done  it  deliber-  ately,  one  other  thing  he  did  threw  me  off:  at  the  bottom  of  one  of  the  cartons  of  books  he  had  put  his  gray  corduroy  shirt,  which  I  had  always  pulled  over     Denizen  my  nightgown  on  cold  winter  morn-  ings.  THIS  weekend  Corky  told  me,  in  the  bedroom,  that  since  Jason  and  I  broke  up  I  had  begun  to  shut  myself  off  from  everyone-she  was  trying  to  be  supportive,  she  said,  and  I  wouldn't  even  talk  about  my  anger  or  my  sadness.  I  told  her  that  I  thought  about  it  a  lot-that  when  people  weren't  in  love  they  had  a  lot  of  time  to  think;  that's  why  there  weren't  very  many  surprises,  or  the  surprises  didn't  have  the  same  intensity  they  had  when  you  were  in  love.  What  happened  when  I'd  been  waiting  for  her  to  come  to  my  apartment  the  day  before,  for  example:  A  bee  flew  into  the  bedroom,  bumped  against  the  skylight,  buzzing.  I  dismissed  my  other  options  right  away:  hiding  under  the  blanket  all  day;  rolling  the  Times  into  a  club  and  trying  to  kill  it.  I  decided  to  do  noth-  ing,  and  when  it  flew  lower,  out  of  the  skylight,  it  did  the  last  thing  I  would  have  predicted-it  flew  in  a  straight  line  to  the  inch-wide  crack  in  the  screen,  almost  filled  in  by  the  lush  vines  that  covered  the  building,  and  disappeared  through  the  leaves.  I  waited  for  it  to  be  perverse  and  fly  back  in,  but  it  didn't.  Then  I  got  up  and  tore  the  leaves  away  from  the  screen  and  put  masking  tape  over  the  crack  where  the  screen  had  separated  from  the  frame.  It's  logical  that  everyone  wants  to  be  in  love.  Then,  for  a  while,  life  isn't  tak-  en  up  with  the  tedium  of  thinking  everything  through,  talking  things  through.  It's  nice  to  be  able  to  notice  small  objects  or  small  moments,  to  point  them  out  and  to  have  some-  one  eager  to  pretend  that  there's  more  to  them  than  it  seems.  Jason  was  very  good  at  that-at  convinc-  ing  me  that  somehow,  be-  cause  we  were  together,  what  we  saw  took  on  an  importance  beyond  itself.  The  last  autumn  we  were  together,  we  drove  over  to  Cold  Spring,  late  one  af-  ternoon.  We  drove  to  the  far  sideof  the  railroad  tracks,  past  the  gazebo,  to  the  edge  of  the  paved  area  where  cars  park  at  the  edge  of  the  [REDACTED].  How  could  he  have  tried  to  convince  me,  later,  that  he  didn't  love  me?  We  were  young  lovers  then,  getting  out  of  thecar  and  throw-  ing  stale  bread  to  the  black  ducks  on  the  river.  We  sat  on  a  bench,  looking  at  the  high  cliffs  across  the  water  and  tightening  our  hold  on  each  other's  waist  as  we  imagined,  I  suppose,  the  voyage  we'd  have  to  take  to  get  there,  and  the  climb  to  the  top.  Or  maybe  we  squeezed  each  other  tighter  because  we  were  safe  where  we  were:  no  boat,  no  possibility  we'd  swim,  no  reason  to  make  such  an  effort  anyway.  It  was  October,  and  the  wind  was  so  strong  that  it  nearly  knocked  us  off  the  bench;  tears  came  to  my  eyes  long  before  Ja-  son  whispered  to  me  to  look:  such  strong  wind-it  made  it  seem  that  the  water  was  being  blown  downstream,  instead  of  flowing. "