 b"RECENT  developments  in  micro- component  technology  now  permit  us  to  make  available  an  extraordinary  precision  device-the  KL-1000.  Weighing  less  than  one  ounce,  it  is  no  larger  than  a  domestic  olive,  yet  it  performs  all  the  photo-  graphic,  data-processing,  and  infor-  mation-retrieval  functions  you  your-  self  do-automatically.  The  KL-1000  adjusts  to  available  light,  sets  shutter  speed  and  aperture,  then  calculates,  displays,  and  prints  out  on  plain  paper  tape  the  cube  root  of  your  Social  Security  number.  This  is  photography  made  so  automatic  it  leaves  you  completely  &quot;out  of  the  pic-  ture.&quot;  The  KL-1000  not  only  flashes  &quot;say  CHEESE&quot;  and  &quot;STOP  MOVING  AROUND&quot;  on  its  unique  L.E.D.  moni-  tor  screen,  it  also  warns  you  that  you're  not  taking  enough  photographs,  advances  the  film  after  each  exposure,  then  hot-wires  your  car  to  rush  the  completed  roll  to  the  drugstore  for  processing.  Don't  feel  like  capturing  those  personal  moments  of  your  life  before  forgetting  them?  Relax.  It  isn't  up  to  you  anymore.  A  whole  world  of  precision  capabil-  ity  is  out  there,  waiting  to  enter  your  home  and  your  life  with  this  fully  integrated,  so-much-more-than-a-  camera  device,  so  much  more  than  a  camera.  Micro-fiche-and-chips  tech-  nology  makes  it  a  computer,  too-  performing  virtually  all  functions,  in-  cluding  logarithms,  in  Roman  numer-  als.  Its  binaural  jack  accommodates  two  sets  of  featherweight  headphones,  so  both  you  and  a  friend  can  roller-  skate  to  Coast  Guard  channel-depth  broadcasts.  Its  light-activated  voice  simulator  tells  you  to  balance  the  fam-  ily  budget,  chart  stocks  and  bonds,  stop  smoking,  clean  your  room,  and  be  con-  siderate  of  others.  You  can  talk  back,  too:  the  clip-on  dynamic  microphone  instantly  triggers  a  sustained,  loud  buzzing-enough  to  wake  the  sound-  est  sleeper-if  you  say  anything  at  all  within  a  fifty-foot  radius  of  the  KL-  1000.  Yet  that  is  not  all,  because  disc-and-  data  fineline  crosshair-tronics  hasen-  abled  us  to  program  the  KL-1000  to  do  everything-and  more-automati-  cally.  Consider  these  exclusive  fea-  tures:  At  ter  Orrice.  Thanks  to  mini-  laser  technopathy,  the  KL-1000  not  only  copies  any-sized  document,  it  ac-  tually  vaporizes  the  original's  byline  without  a  trace,  and  substitutes  your  own  name,  sex,  political  affiliation,  and  yearly  income.  Its  data-network-  access  function  lets  you  be  part  of  the  grid,  too,  as  it  narrowcasts  product  inventory  and  inflow-outfow  figures  directly  to  your  digital  watch.  The  KL-1000A  word-processing  attach-  ment  assures  perfection  every  time-  misspelled  words  or  computational  er-  rors  are  immediately  obliterated  by  its  built-in  document  shredder,  which  also  shorts  out  all  electrical  power  to  the  entire  building  and  releases  a  semi-  toxic  paralyzing  gas.  Just  get  it  right  the  first  time,  and  forget  it!  Wuire  TraveEctuinc.  Optional  carry-strap  lets  you  wear  it  on  your  belt,  or  leave  it  in  your  room-the  strap  extends  to  a  full  half  mile,  and  retains  enough  water  in  even  the  lightest  drizzles  to  provide  nooselike  snugness  and  hamper  torso  circulation.  Or  remain  in  the  room  yourself;  the  unit  travels  freely  on  its  own,  and  will  simulate  your  signature  on  major  pur-  chases  of  clothing,  art,  and  real  estate  without  your  even  knowing.  In  every  major  foreign  city,  the  KL-1000  does  it  all:  orders  gourmet  meals  for  twenty  while  you  struggle  with  the  menu,  loudly  contradicts  you  in  museums,  and  forwards  your  souvenir  purchases  to  General  Delivery,  50657275,  50657275.  All  you  do  is  pay  freight  and  handling.  And  you  need  never  again  worry  about  destroyed  traveller's  checks,  cancelled  credit  cards,  and  misplaced  passports  -the  KL-1000  does  all  these,  and  more,  while  you  sleep.  In  the  morn-  ing,  enjoy  your  own  original  composi-  tions  of  up  to  twelve  accordionlike   notes  inreal  music,  &quot;the  international  language.&quot;  The  KL-1000  will  record  and  transcribe  these  melodies  automat-  ically,  then  engrave  the  notes  onto  an  attractive  brass  pendant,  which  it  will  offer  for  saleto  friends  and  strangers.  Do  not  worry  about  accidentally  switching  off  the  unit,  either,  because  you  can't-not  even  deliberately.  At  Home.  Self-contained  forty-  eight-hour  timer  lets  it  tell  itself  when  forty-eight  hours  have  elapsed,  after  which  timer  resets  itself  automatically.  All  you  do  is  hide  in  a  closet.  Later,  use  the  microwave  transponder  attach-  ment  to  receive  hitherto  unavailable  signals  from  turkeys,  roasts,  and  hams.  When  no  one  is  home,  it  plays  both  eight-track  and  cassette  recordings,  switches  lights  and  appliances  on  and  off,  and  displays  random  words  in  Italian  on  its  high-resolution  screen.  The  KL-1000  wards  off  burglars  all  night  longby  announcing,  in  a  voice  mathematically  similar  to  your  own,  &quot;We're  awake  ...  we're  awake  ...&quot;  Then,  in  the  morning,  it  counts  your  pushups,  uses  all  the  hot  water,  and  ignores  you  at  the  table.  Coffee?  Of  course.  There's  even  some  for  you.  And  don't  worry  about  getting  dressed  -it  gets  dressed  for  everyone,  then  dials  ten  frequently  called  telephone  numbers  and  leaves  ashort  inspira-  tional  message  in  your  name.  All  you  do  is  stay  undressed,  watch,  and  go  back  to  bed.  Advances  in  macro-waferonics  en-  able  the  KL-1000  to  use  3-D  graphic  simulation  to  transfer  black-and-white  computerized  likenesses  of  you  and  your  family  to  T-shirts,  dogs,  and  fro-  zen  foods.  Switch  from  audio  to  visual  readout  for  its  smoke-detection  mode,  and  receive  a  hard-copy  sheet  reading  &quot;SMOKE&quot;  when  your  house  burns  down.  DEVICE  of  state-of-the-art  convenience,  the  KL-1000  has  already  projected  your  technological  needs  and,  with  funds  transferred  from  _  your  checking  or  savings  account,  has  purchased  itself.  It  has  already  ex-  pedited  its  own  delivery.  Indeed,  the  KL-1000  is  already  in  your  home  or  office-over  there,  near  that  lamp.  It  is  already  on  line,  shred-  ding  potatoes  and  complaining  about  your  posture,  automatically.  All  you  do  is  nothing.  Just  set  it  at  &quot;HIGH&quot;  and  run  away.  You'll  never  have  to  do  anything  else  for  as  long  as  it  lives. "