 b"ALLISON  struggled  away  from  her  white  Renault,  limping  with  the  weight  of  the  last  of  the  pumpkins.  She  foundClark  in  the  twi-  light  on  the  twig-  and  leaf-littered  porch,  behind  the  house.  He  wore  a  tan  wool  shawl.  He  was  moving  up  and  back  in  a  cushioned  glider,  pushed  by  the  ball  of  his  slippered  foot.  Allison  lowered  a  big  pumpkin  and  let  it  rest  on  the  porch  floor.  Clark  was  much  older  than  she-  seventy-eight  to  Allison's  thirty-five.  They  had  been  married  for  four  months.  They  were  both  quite  tall,  withlong  hands,  and  their  faces  looked  something  alike.  Allison  wore  a  natural-hair  wig.  It  was  a  thick  blond  hood  around  her  face.  She  was  dressed  in  bright-dyed  denims  today.  She  wore  durable  clothes,  usually,  for  she  volunteered  afternoons  at  a  chil-  dren's  day-care  center.  She  put  one  of  the  smaller  pumpkins  on  Clark's  long  lap.  &quot;Now,  nothing  surreal,&quot;  she  told  him.  &quot;Carve  just  a  regular  face.  These  are  for  kids.&quot;  In  the  foyer,  on  the  Hepplewhite  desk,  Allison  found  the  maid's  chore  list,  with  its  cross-offs,  which  included  Clark's  supper.  Allison  went  quickly  through  the  day's  mail:  a  garish  cou-  pon  packet,  a  flyer  advertising  white  wines  at  Jamestown  Liquors,  Novem-  ber's  pay-TV  program  guide,  and-  the  worst  thing,  the  funniest-an  al-  ready  opened,  extremely  unkind  letter  from  Clark's  married  daughter,  up  [REDACTED].  &quot;You're  an  old  fool,&quot;  Allison  read,  and  &quot;You're  being  cruelly  de-  ceived.&quot;  There  was  a  gift  check  for  twenty-five  dollars,  made  out  to  Clark,  enclosed  birthday  had  just  passed  -but  it  was  uncashable.  It  was  signed  &quot;Jesus  H.  Christ.&quot;  Late,  late  into  this  night,  Allison  and  Clark  gutted  and  carved  the  pumpkins  together,  at  an  old  table  set  out  on  the  back  porch.  They  worked  over  newspaper  after  soggy  newspaper,  using  paring  knives  and  spoons  and  a  Swiss  Army  knife  Clark  liked  for  the  exact  shaping  of  teeth  and  eyes  and  nostrils.  Clark  had  been  a  doctor-an  internist-but  he  was  also  a  Sunday  watercolor  painter.  His  four  pumpkins  were  expressive  and  artful.  Their  carved  features  were  suited  to  the  sizes  and  shapes  of  the  pumpkins.  Two  looked  ferocious  and  jagged.  One  reg-  istered  surprise.  The  last  was  serene  and  beaming.  Allison's  four  faces  were  less  deftly  drawn,  with  slits  and  areas  of  distor-  tion.  She  had  cut  triangles  for  noses  and  eyes.  The  mouths  she  had  made  were  all  just  wedges-two  turned  up  and  two  turned  down.  By  1  a.m.,  they  were  finished.  Clark,  who  had  bent  his  long  torso  forward  to  work,  moved  over  to  the  glider  again  and  looked  out  sleepily  at  nothing.  All  the  neighbors'  lights  were  out  across  the  ravine.  For  the  season  and  time,  the  [REDACTED]  night  was  warm.  Most  of  the  leaves  had  fallen  and  blown  away  already,  and  the  trees  stood  unbothered.  The  moon  was  round,  above  them.  Allison  cleaned  up  the  mess.  &quot;Your  jack-o'-lanterns  are  much  much  better  than  mine,&quot;  Clark  said  to  her.  &quot;Like  hell,&quot;  Allison  said.  &quot;Look  at  me,&quot;  Clark  said,  and  Al-  lison  did.  She  was  holding  a  squishy  bundle  of  newspapers.  The  papers  reeked  sweetly  with  the  smell  of  pumpkin  innards.  &quot;Yours  are  fer  bet-  ter,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You're  wrong.  You'll  see  when  they're  lit,&quot;  Allison  said.  She  went  inside,  came  back  with  yellow  vigil  candles.  It  took  her  a  while  to  get  each  candle  settled  into  a  pool  of  its  own  melted  wax  inside  the  jack-o'-lanterns,  which  were  lined  up  in  a  row  on  the  porch  railing.  Allison  went  along  and  relit  each  candle  and  fixed  the  pumpkin  lids  over  the  little  flames.  &quot;See?&quot;  she  said.  They  sat  to-  gether  a  moment  and  looked  at  the  orange  faces.  &quot;We're  exhausted.  It's  good-night  time,&quot;  Allison  said.  &quot;Don't  blow  out  the  candles.  I'll  put  in  new  ones  to-  morrow.&quot;  In  her  bedroom,  a  few  weeks  earlier  in  her  life  than  had  been  predicted,  she  began  to  die.  &quot;Don't  look  at  me  if  my  wig  comes  off,&quot;  she  told  Clark.  &quot;Please.&quot;  Her  pulse  cords  were  flutter-  ing  under  his  fingers.  She  raised  her  knees  and  kicked  away  the  comforter.  She  said  something  to  Clark  about  the  garage  being  locked.  At  the  telephone,  Clark  had  a  clear  view  out  back  and  down  to  the  porch.  He  wanted  to  get  drunk  with  his  wife  once  more.  He  wanted  to  tell  her,  from  the  greater  perspective  he  had,  that  to  own  only  a  little  talent,  like  his,  was  an  awful,  plaguing  thing;  that  being  only  a  little  special  meant  you  expected  too  much,  most  of  the  time,  and  liked  yourself  too  little.  He  wanted  to  assure  her  that  she  had  missed  nothing.  Clark  was  speaking  into  the  phone  now.  He  watched  the  jack-o'-lanterns.  The  jack-o'-lanterns  watched  him. "