 b"IF  they  said  to  you, &quot;Tell  us  the  last  time  you  remember  when  you  be-  lieved  everything  would  turn  out  right,&quot;  you  would  think  back  to  the  summer  of  the  mockingbirds,  when  bounty  in  the  north  or  disturbance  in  the  south  sent  them  by  the  hundreds  into  [REDACTED]  farmlands,  where  people  thought  themselves  lucky  before  if  one  sang  in  a  county.  You  would  think  of  the  locust  trees,  and  the  mocking,  birds  singing  in  them:  the  perfume  and  the  whiteness  and  the  music  to-  gether.  It  made  you  change  your  no-  tions  about  what  is  too  little  and  what  is  enough.  You  would  remember  that  evenings  were  best.  The  farm  women  came  out  with  glasses  of  lemonade,  and  ker-  chiefs  to  wipe  their  foreheads,  and  sat  on  the  front-porch  swings,  listen-  ing  and  swinging.  Supper  dishes  would  keep.  The  mockingbirds  chased  the  cats  all  day,  then  perched  in  the  lilac  and  sang  till  the  stars  were  out.  That  was  the  summer  it  did  not  rain  until  the  hay  was  in,  did  not  frost  until  the  tomatoes  were  played  out  and  the  zinnias  were  safe  and  red  on  the  sideboard.  The  black  onyx  Seth  Thomas  clock,  whose  glass  face  always  clouded  in  wet  weather,  was  fooled       and  stayed  clear  right  to  Thanksgiving.  That  was  the  summer  Jack  and  I  hiked  down  to  the  creek  nearly  every  day.  The  creek  issued  from  a  storm  sewer  at  the  end  of  Sullivan  Street  and  vanished  into  a  storm  sewer  under  the  railroad  tracks,  where  it  was  wild,the  high  grass  exploding  with  the  caw  of  cock  pheasants.  Between  the  Sullivan  culvert  and  the  railroad  dicks,  whom  we  never  saw  but  who  were  rumored  to  bludgeon  first  and  inquire  later,  the  creek  halved  a  ragged  wood  that  was  full  of  broken  glass  and  derelicts.  We  learned  to  catch  crayfish  and  hang  themon  our  shirts  to  terrify  the  girls.  The  crayfish  bent  their  tails  over  their  rumps  of  eggs  and  could  live  forever  out  of  water,  waving  their  claws  from  the  dust  balls  under  our  beds.  That  was  the  summer  that  followed  a  spring  when  rains  washed  shrews  from  their  burrows  in  the  woods.  Jack  and  I  picked  tiny  drowned  bodies  from  the  water.  They  were  like  preliminary  models-sketches  in  the  flesh,  and  not  full  animals.  Their  teeth  were  bared  like  stiff  white  threads.  HAT  was  the  summer  that  ended  when  Mother  took  sick.  They  always  said  &quot;took  sick,&quot;  as   though  it  were  something  cho-  sen,  like  bric-a-brac  from  a  shelf.  Once  before,  when  I  was  very  young,  she  had  taken  sick  and  stayed  so  long  in  the  hospital  that  I  did  not  remember  her,  and  the  word  &quot;mother&quot;  took  on  a  strange,  abstract  resonance.  It  was  like  &quot;Brazil&quot;  or  &quot;adolescence&quot;  -a  thing  heard  of  but  far  off.  But  that  summer,  of  the  mocking-  birds,  I  was  twelve  and  the  phrase  was  &quot;Take  it  like  a  man.&quot;  I  did.  I  didn't  have  much  use  for  the  calen-  dar  then,  but  you  could  tell  it  was  al-  most  schooltime  by  the  way  the  light  came  at  evening,  slanted  and  golden.  I  came  in  from  playing  and  saw  my  mother,  her  chair  set  solidly  against  the  wall.  I  looked  carefully  at  her,  thinking  there  was  something  I  want-  ed  to  keep.  She  motioned  me  to  her.  Shehad  me  stand  between  her  knees  so  she  could  trim  my  hair  for  school.  I  heard  the  snipping  closeto  my  ears,  felt  her  gathering  thehair  in  her  hands  so  it  wouldn't  fall  to  the  floor.  When  she  was  finished,  she  said  my  name,  but  I  was  afraid  to  turn  and  look  at  her.  She  was  crying.  They  thought  it  would  be  easier  for  me  if  she  left  for  the  hospital  when  I  was  at  school.  One  afternoon  when  I  got  home,  my  mother  was  gone  and  Mrs.  Dodge,  from  church,  was  there.  Mrs.  Dodge  asked  me  if  I  would  like  cookies  and  milk.  Never  in  my  life  had  I  had  cookies  and  milk  after  school,  the  way  they  did  on  TV,  and  I  burst  into  tears.  I  thought  Mother  was  dead.  I  was  too  young  to  see  her  in  her  hospital  room,  but  sometimes  my  fa-  ther  brought  me  to  the  street  below,  and  she  would  wave  from  a  window.  What  gave  me  a  low  opinion  of  the  candor  of  adults  I  don't  recall,  but  I  believed  then  that  she  was  gone,  and  that  Father  got  a  nurse  to  put  on  her  pale  robe  and  stand  by  the  window  to  wave  to  me.  T  the  end  ofthat  winter,  she  was  dead.  I  spent  much  of  the  spring  by  myself,  hiking.  And  I  began  to  keep  a  sketchbook,  to  record  what  I  saw.  Father  would  drive  me  out  to  a  state  park,  give  me  the  day  to  wander  around,  and  pick  me  up  at  the  entrance  in  the  evening  at  some  pre-  arranged  hour.  One  day,  I  went  into  Chardon  Gorge.  It  was  cold  at  the  bottom,  still  deep  winter  there  out  of  the  sun,  but  not  unpleasant  after  the  sweaty  scramble  down.  I  had  taken  a  " b"feeder  creek  most  of  the  way,  wading  in  high  green  boots,  breaking  the  ice  some-  times,  sometimes  walking  cautiously  upon  it.  In  one  pool  of  thefeeder  creek  I  stepped  on  the  body  of  a  frog.  He  woke  too  soon,  maybe,  or  was  dug  from  his  sleep  by  thawing  water.  At  the  bottom  of  the  gorge,  I  leaned  on  the  snow  that  made  an  abrupt  shelf  on  the  rocky  shingle  of  the  stream  and  began  to  draw.  I  drew  tiny  trees  of  lichens  on  a  well-  sunned  log,  like  min-  lature  cacti  or  foliage  in  a  book  of  dinosaurs.  I  drew  liverworts  that  gemmed  the  same  log  like  cabbages  in  a  field.  Behind  the  liverworts  there  were  tiny  black  and  red  spidersthat  didn't  notice  even  when  I  bent  in  close.  I  had  seen  Cooper's  hawks  over  the  near  brown  hills,  and  I  tried  to  draw  them,  but  I  had  notseen  them  close  enough,  and  I  realized  I  was  drawing  my  memory  of  the  picture  of  them  in  the  Gold-  en  Field  Guide.  Had  I  seen  them  but  once,  I  might  have  mistaken  them  for  herons,  flapping  on  their  silvery  wings.  I  could  draw  with  my  gloves  on.  They  were  my  spring  gloves  and  not  too  bulky,  and  my  drawing  was  coarse  enough  not  to  require  great  delica-  cy  of  line.  When  I  finished  with  what  I  had  seen  on  the  log,  I  began  looking  for  something  else.  Wrens  were  fussing  by  the  water.  I  tried  to  concentrate  on  them,  but  I  was  distracted  by  the  stream  itself.  I  shift-  ed  from  looking  to  seeing  almost  without  noticing.  I  grew  drowsy,  and  realized  I  had  been  staring  fora  long  time.  I  brought  myself  suddenly  to,  and  when  I  did,  the  thing  I  had  been  staring  at  came  into  focus.  It  was  a  doe,  caught  in  a  snarl  of  wood  in  the  stream.  Perhaps  she  fell  from  the  falls  or  was  swept  from  the  forest  in  a  flash  flood.  Or  perhaps  she  was  shot  on  the  bankand  slid  in.  She  was  so  thoroughly  tangled  in  the  debris  I  couldn't  tell  where  her  legs  were.  Everything  that  was  under  the  water  was  stripped  clean  of  hair,  so  that  it  was  smoothand  ghostly.  Her  back  was  lifted  above  the  current  by  the  snag  and  was  still  furry.  Her  body  was  contorted-stretched  out  in  the  direction  of  the  current.  She  was  not  horrible  so  much  as  startling.  I  got  up  to  kick  the  snag  a  few  times,  but  it  did  not  release  her.  Spring  rains  were  coming,  I  thought,  and  would  wash  her  down.  I  walked  on  and  found  the  path  that  led  back  up  the  gorge.  I  did  not  turn  around,  did  not  think  much  about  the  deer  at  all.  But  that  night  when  I  dreamed,  I  kicked  the  snag  away  and  she  broke  free,  swimming  first,  then  bounding  alive  into  the  forest.  It  was so  bare  I  could  see  her  running  a  long  time.  HAT  was  the  summer  I  could  lie  on  my  belly  by  the  osier  bush,  reading,  hour  after  hour,  drowsy  with  the  sun  that  seemed  never  to  move,  and  a  mockingbird  came  to  sing  over  my  shoulder,  rocking  the  branch  when  he  landed,  and  I  thought  that  meant  I  would  be  lucky.  "