 b"IF  you  think  that  when  you  look  at   me  you're  looking  at  rock,  rhythm  and  blues,  jazz,  classical,  or  pop,  then  you  are  wrong,  because  I  am  country  from  my  head  down  to  my  boots.  If  you're  looking  at  me,  then  by  definition  you  are  looking  at  country.  When  I  was  in  my  early  teens,  the  great  Hank  Williams  told  me,  &quot;Son,  you  ain't  country  unless  you've  looked  at  a  lot  of  miles  over  the  back  end  of  a  mule.&quot;  Unfortunately,  because  of  con-  flicts  in  my  schedule  at  the  time,  I  did  not  have  a  chance  to  look  at  as  many  miles  over  the  back  end  of  a  mule  as  I  would  have  liked  to.  Hank,  however,  made  some  excellent  videotapes  of  miles  with  the  back  end  of  a  mule  in  the  foreground,  and  I  spent  countless  hours  screening  those  tapes.  Excuse  me.  That's  my  phone.  Sorry.  That  was  the  lonesome  high-  way  calling  me.  It  calls  me  just  about  every  day  at  this  time.  Just  about  every  day,  I  get  calls  from  the  lonesome  highway,  the  gentle  Southern  summer  breezes,  my  Smoky  Mountain  memo-  ries,  and  that  lonesome  freight-train  whistle's  whine.  If  I'm  not  in,  they  leave  messages.  I  don't  mind  all  these  calls,  because  they  remind  me  that  I'm  just  a  country  boy  and  that's  all  I'll  ever  be.  (Although  sometimes  that  lonesome  freight-train  whistle's  whine  can  bea  little  irritating.  I  pick  up  the  phone  and  all  I  hear  is  this  whine.)  I  like  it  when  the  lonesome  highway  calls,  because  for  a  long  time  it  has  been  my  only  friend.  I  don't  know  exactly  why  I  always  keep  moving  on  down  the  road.  One  reason  might  be  that  I've  got  a  different  girl  in  every  town  you  can  name.  There's  a  Cajun  Queen  down  in  Baton  Rouge  who  usually  tries  to  avoid  me.  And  in  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  there's  a  rich  man's  daughter  who  says  she  doesn't  like  me  that  much.  In  old  San  Antone  there's  a  dark-eyed  sefiorita  who  didn't  have  a  very  good  time  with  me,  while  up  in  [REDACTED]  there  are  several  Tennes-  see  belles  whose  feelings  toward  me  are  lukewarm  at  best.  I  tell  them  all  the  same  thing:  &quot;I  am  not  the  kind  of  man  to  hang  around  with  any  one  woman  for  too  long,  because  I  am  always  chasing  rainbows.  So  please  bear  that  in  mind.&quot;  That  is  not  an  easy  thing  to  tell  someone  (particu-  larly  if  you  have  to  yell  it  through  her  locked  door),  but  I  know  myself  well  enough  to  say  that  it  is  nothing  more  or  less  than  the  simple  truth.  I  am  country  today,  and  I  was  coun-  try  this  time  last  year-1I  have  photo-  graphs  to  prove  it.  I  was  country  back  before  [REDACTED]  brought  [REDACTED]  to  New  York  and  imitation  drugstore  cowboys  turned  up  all  over  the  Sunset  Strip.  I  was  country  in  '80,*78,  '77,  *76-it  doesn't  matter  how  far  back  you  want  to  go.  I  was  country  when  country  wasn't  cool.  In  fact,  I  was  country  back  when  it  was  forbid-  den  by  law  in  most  states  and  the  federal  government  turned  a  blind  eye  to  this  blatant  violation  of  the  rights  of  its  people.  I  was  country  back  when  if  you  were  intelligent  enough  to  buy  beer  andyou  tried  to  be  country  you  could  be  fined,  or  even  imprisoned.  Now  it  is  hard  to  believe  that  such  times  ever  existed.  My  daddy  was  just  a  simple  back-  woods  art  director  (B.F.A.,  Rhode  Is-  land  School  of  Design)  out  of  Coche-  tah,  [REDACTED].  He  raised  me  right.  He  insisted  that  I  spend  at  least  three  hours  out  of  every  day  honky-tonking,  and  he  was  very  strict.  I  had  to  bring  him  bar  tabs  from  as  many  places  as  I  could  to  prove  I  had  really  bar-  hopped.  He  also  made  me  practice  cheating  and  slipping  around  behind  my  wife's  back,  Of  course,  I  was  much  too  young  to  be  married,  so  we  pre-  tended  I  was  married  to  Yeller,  my  dog.  Then  I  would  go  over  to  our  neighbors'  yard  and  sweet-talk  their  dog,  Blue.  &quot;What  part  of  Heaven  did  you  fall  from,  angel?&quot;  I'd  say.  &quot;No,  no,  no!&quot;  Daddy  would  holler.  &quot;Say  it  like  you  mean  it!  Put  some  ol'  country  sorghum  in  your  voice!&quot;  And  he'd  make  me  try  it  again  and  again,  until  I  finally  had  Yeller  howling  with  jeal-  ousy.  At  the  time,  I  have  to  admit,  I  hated  my  daddy  for  being  so  hard  on  me,  but  now  I  understand  what  he  was  doing,  and  I  thank  him  for  it.  Many  of  the  experiences  of  my  life  were  like  that;  I  did  not  understand  at  the  time  that  they  were  molding  me  into  pure  country,  which  is  what  I  am  today.  Like  when  I  went  to  tennis  camp  with  Bob  Wills  and  several  of  the  [REDACTED]  Playboys.  Or  the  time  I  made  a  snow  sculpture  with  Ernest  Tubb.  Or  the  time  I  went  on  a  two-  month  tour  of  the  canals  of  Europe  with  Jimmie  Rodgers,  the  Singing  Brakeman.  Each  of  these  experiences  taught  me  a  little  bit  more  about  what  country  really  means.  So  when  people  who  don't  have  the  benefit  of  similar  experiences  ask  me  &quot;What  is  country?&quot;  I  don't  know  what  to  tell  them.  Country  is  so  many  things.  It's  knowing  how  to  find  the  country  station  on  your  radio  dial.  It's  watching  the  TV  pages  to  see  when  the  next  country-music  awards  show  is  on.  It's  knowing  the  location  of  the  aisle  labelled  &quot;Country&quot;  at  your  rec-  ord  store....  It's  all  these  things,  and  yet,  somehow,  it's  more.  It's  ineffa-  ble,  really.  And  when  my  friends,  all  of  them  country  &quot;kickers&quot;  like  my-  self,  and  I  watch  people  who  just  plain  ain't  country  trying  to  pretend  they  are-when  we  watch  them  fum-  ble  with  their  radios  searching  for  a  country  station-well,  then  we  just  smile.  Because  if  you're  not  coun-  try,  then  there's  nothing  you  can  do  about  it.  Because  real,  down-home  country  is  something  that  comes  from  the  heart.  Because  there  is  no  way  if  you  aren't  country  that  you  can  ever  possibly  become  country-cer-  tainly  not  without  working  at  it  for,  at  the  very  least,  seven  to  ten  years. "