 b"A FEW  hours  after  George  Steinbrenner  vowed  that  the  New  York  Yankees  would  not  trade  Bucky  Dent,  the  Yankees  traded  Dent  to  the  Republicans  for  Jack  Kemp.  The  trade  was  announced  at  a  press  conference  at  Yankee  Stadium  just  af-  ter  a  doubleheader  between  the  two  teams,  in  which  the  Yankees  won  the  first  game,  $560,000  to  $240,500.  The  Reagan  team  then  shut  out  New  York,  $98.3  billion  to  0,  with  a  mur-  derous  tax  bill  in  the  top  of  the  ninth.  Later,  in  the  locker  room,  Dent  was  asked  about  his  new  position.  He  will  represent  upstate  New  York  in  the  [REDACTED]  House  of  Representatives.  &quot;I'm  comfortable  with  it,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  haven't  been  all  that  happy  with  the  Yankees  recently.  Mr.  Steinbrenner  was  constantly  on  my  back  about  fiscal  this  and  earnings  that,  and  he  told  me  my  work  on  last  year's  annual  report  wasn't  thought  very  highly  of  in  the  front  office.  At  one  point  he  tried  to  make  me  sell  individual  pizzas  during  games-something  to  do  with  reve-  nue.  And  then  a  few  months  ago  he  declared  a  three-for-one  split-me,  Nettles,  and  Smalley  having  to  take  turns  going  down  to  Wall  Street  to  sit  around  the  Stock  Exchange  and  see  if  anybody  would  give  us  some  money.  Now  at  least  Mr.  Reagan  has  made  it  clear  that  all  he  wants  me  to  do  is  play  ball.&quot;  &quot;So  what!&quot;  Steinbrenner  steamed  when  Dent's  remarks  were  read  to  him  as  he  sought  a  limousine.  Reportedly,  the  idea  for  a  trade  came  from  the  White  House  Office  of  Player  Personnel,  the  Bechtel  Group,  which  released  this  statement:  &quot;Jack  Kemp  is  a  very  fine  young  man,  and  the  Reagan  organization  is  very  sorry  to  see  him  leave  [REDACTED].  We  all  have  the  greatest  respect  for  his  lovely  family.  He  should  be  grateful  for  all  that  Ronald  Reagan  has  done  for  him.&quot;  At  an  impromptu  briefing  on  the  White  House  helicopter  pad,  Reagan  waved,  smiled,  and  said,  &quot;I  sensed  Jack  wasn't  happy,  because  he  couldn't  keep  his  mind  on  the  gate  receipts.  He  kept  nagging  day  in  and  day  out  about  spending  what-all  and  the  other  thing,  supply,  and  he  frankly  just  made  a  nuisance.  It  was  time  to  cut  the  guy  loose.  He'll  be  better  off  in  a  situation  where  I  won't  always  be  having  to  have  to  prove  I'm  sane.&quot;  However,  Kemp's  spokesman,  talent  agent  Bob  Haldeman,  said,  &quot;Jack  loves  his  teammates  in  the  [REDACTED],  but  he  is  a  sincere  idealist  who  actually  believes  that  George  Steinbrenner  is  a  man  of  unswerving  principle-unlike  some  other  people  who  Jack  has  too  much  integrity  to  comment  on.&quot;  Invited  to  reply  to  this  by  a  TV  newscaster  waiting  at  Andrews  Air  Force  Base,  Reagan  chuckled  and  burst  out  spontaneously,  &quot;You  know,  I'd  love  to  go  back  into  show  business.  It  would  be  fun  to  do  that  vaudeville  routine  where  you  take  a  jack-in-the-  box  and  hit  it  with  a  hammer.  But  seriously.  Jack  Kemp  sure  in  Hades  didn't  turn  out  to  bea  team  player,  which  is  how  I  never  thought  in  the  first  place.  Where  is  the  sportsmanship  that  his  wonderful  parents  instilled?  Who  does  he  think  he  is,  as  he  seems  to  think?&quot;  LAGGED  down  on  a  [REDACTED]  freeway,  former  Yankee  manager  Billy  Martin  was  asked  forhis  opinion  of  the  trade.  While  explaining  care-  fully  that  Steinbrenner  needed  to  be  taken  down  a  peg  or  two,  Martin  drove  away.  A  source  close  to  a  companion  of  Reggie  Jackson's  maintained  guard-  edly  that  &quot;Reggie  is  keeping  a  positive  mental  attitude  at  all  times.&quot;  Steinbrenner  is  rumored  to  have  re-  ally  hit  the  ceiling  on  hearing  this.  ETER  in  the  day,  the  real  cause  of  Steinbrenner's  ire  was  divulged  when  he  chewed  out  an  ebullient  Rea-  gan  in  a  limo  driven  by  an  undercover  reporter.  Steinbrenner  had  begun  the  negotiations  months  ago,  when  the  Reagan  organization  was  trying  to  unload  David  Stockman.  At  the  last  minute,  Reagan  jawboned  Steinbren-  ner  into  taking  Kemp  off  his  hands  as  the  precondition  for  a  Stockman  deal.  Now  the  Yankees  have  had  to  arrange  to  sell  Kemp  to  M-G-M-United  Artists  and  buy  Stockman  outright  for  an  undisclosed  sum  of  cash.  Stockman's  old  position,  Director  of  the  Office  of  Management  and  Bud-     get,  will  be  held  down  by  a  callboy.  After  hearing  this  news  from  his  representative,  [REDACTED]  super-  agent  Ham  Jordan,  Stockman  tele-  phoned  a  reporter  at  home  and  con-  fided,  &quot;It's  tremendous  news,  just  tremendous-a  tremendous  break  for  me.  Ever  since  I  was  a  little  baby,  I've  wanted  a  position  on  the  New  York  Yankees,  with  all  the  joy  in  economic  performance  that  makes  it  worthwhile.  An  impossible  dream,  but  then-you  know  me!  I  have  a  way  of  getting  myself  into  situations  that  are  way  over  my  head  and  then  flagellating  myself  for  failing  to  overcome  the  tre-  mendous  odds.  I  don't  know-maybe  that's  even  what  I'm  doing  right  now.  Setting  myself  up  for  failure.  O.K.!  Let's  say  I'm  asking  for  trouble,  it's  probably  hopeless,  but  it's  the  chance  of  a  lifetime-to  be  with  a  winner.  What  an  exciting  prospect!  The  Rea-  gan  thing,  you  know,  began  to  change  tremendously  once  it  started  to  not  work  out.  There  is  athlete's  foot  on  the  Presidency.  It  is  growing.  It  com-  pounds  itself  daily,  like  interest.  It's  a  phenomenal-a  giant  fungus!  How  do  we  keep  it  off  us?  For  all  I  know,  maybe  the  whole  world,  even  the  Yankees,  is  doomed  necessarily  to  be  this  type  of  uncontrollable-these  things  of  this  nature,  and  the  like,  which  allow  no  one  to  function  within  them  as  a  rational  shortstop.  What  did  I  just  say?  Are  you  writing  this  down?&quot;  Reached  for  a  reaction  in  what  he  described  as  &quot;the  middle  of  the  night,&quot;  Reagan  said  laughingly,  &quot;If  that's  his  interpretation,  all  I  can  say  is  he's  as  equally  as  entitled  to  it  as  I  am.  Very  frankly,  he  has  always  had  a  loose  rotator  cuff.  Like  the  rest  of  the  coun-  try,  it  is  very  sad  for  his  family  and  we  have  great  sympathy.  Bucky  Dent-  now  there  is  a  very  popular  young  man  with  our  American  population.  As  far  as  Jack  Kemp,  it's  not  my  job  to  make  trades  for  the  Yankees,  but  they  bought  a  pig  in  a  poke  there,  and  they  have  nothing  but  our  compassion.&quot;  Kemp's  personal  manager,  Jerry  Ford,  said,  &quot;Jack  Kemp  can  play  hard-  ball  with  the  best  of  them.  But  he  has  a  frail  ego  like  all  professional  egomaniacs.  And  this  career  instability  at  this  point  is  affecting  his  athletic  condition.&quot;  Reagan's  phone  was  off  the  hook  by  then,  but  his  aide  Lyn  Nofziger,  &quot;psy-  chiatrist  to  the  stars,&quot;  commented,  &quot;I  knew  Jack  Kemp  wouldn't  lastfive  minutes  in  a  business  such  as  the  New  York  Yankees.&quot;"