 b"WHEN  aspiring  young  authors  come  to  me  and  ask  what  books  I  think  it  essential  for  a  modern  writer  to  have  read,  I  am  hard  pressed  for  an  answer.  I  dislike  talking  about  writing,  because  I  believe  that  the  job  ofa  writer  is  to  write  rather  than  talk,  and  that  real  writing  is  something  so  deep  within  one  that  any  discussion  profanes  it.  In  addition,  I  have  a  profound  distrust  of  lists-the  ten-best  this,  the  twenty-worst  that.  Such  lists  strike  me  as  a  characteristi-  cally  American  oversimplification  of  life's  diversity.  Like  most  writers  of  any  experience,  I  fear  making  lists  simply  because  I  fear  leaving  some-  thing  out.  Young  writers,  however,  can  be  very  insistent  (I1  have  found),  and,  as  no  less  an  authority  than  Flaubert  once  said,  &quot;what  a  scholar  one  might  be  if  one  knew  well  mere-  ly  some  half  a  dozen  books.&quot;  So  I  have  decided  to  tackle  this  difficult  task  despite  my  misgivings.  The  fol-  lowing  six  works  are  ones  that  I  be-  lieve  every  writer-in  fact,  every  edu-  cated  person-should  know  as  well  as  he  knows  his  own  name  and  tele-  phone  number:  &quot;Remembrance  of  Things  Past.&quot;  Marcel  Proust's  lyric,  luminous  evoca-  tion  of  lost  time  is  arguably  the  great-  est  novel  of  the  twentieth  century.  Moving  from  private  to  public  scope,  from  the  narrator's  boyhood  in  the  small  provincial  town  of  Combray,  through  the  glittering  salons  ofthe  Faubourg-Saint-Germain  in  [REDACTED],  to  the  sun-blinding  hotels  and  beaches  of  [REDACTED]'s  Diamond  Head,  this  monu-  mental  work  has  as  its  intent  the  precise  description  of  Time  itself.  Time  is  as  much  a  character  in  the  book  as  the  narrator,  Marcel,  or  his  ex-wife,  Val\xc3\xa9rie.  When  Marcel  meets  Val\xc3\xa9rie  on  a  flight  to  [REDACTED],  she  is  much  changed  since  he  saw  her  last;  now  she  is  an  international  diamond  smuggler,  and  the  mob  has  puta  hundred-thousand-dollar  price  on  her  head.  Again,  Time  is  the  genie  who  reveals  to  Marcel  unguessed  se-  crets  about  a  woman  with  whom  he  was  once  deeply  in  love.  Many  writers  have  imitated  Proust's  generous,  un-  trammelled,  multi-hued  prose;  none  has  ever  equalled  it.  &quot;Madame  Bovary.&quot;  In  Emma  Bo-  vary,  Flaubert  created  a  character  who  will  live  as  long  as  there  are  books  and  readers.  Flaubert,  we  are  told,  wrote  slowly  and  carefully;  I  try  to  take  the  same  care  when  I  read  him.  In  the  marvellous  scene  when  Emma  first  discovers  that  the  petit-bour-  geois  pharmacist,  Homais,  is  operat-  ing  a  baby-stealing  ring,  the  intricate  chiastic  imagery  switches  from  the  look  of  horror  on  Emma's  face  to  the  happy,  gurgling  laughter  of  the  in-  nocent  babies  in  their  makeshift  cribsin  the  garage  behind  the  drug-  store.  Flaubert's  genius  for  the  accu-  mulation  of  observed  detail  in  delin-  eating  character  showed  the  way  for  many  later  writers-particularly  James  Joyce.  &quot;War  and  [REDACTED];  Tolstoy's  epic  novel  of  [REDACTED]  during  the  Napoleonic  era  is,  in  essence,  a  parable  about  the  power  of  the  media.  Pierre  Bezuhovy  is  the  ambitious  young  reporter  who  will  go  to  any  length  to  get  a  story-  including  murder.  What  he  doesn't  know  is  that  Natasha  Rostov,  Mos-  cow's  feared  &quot;Dragon  Lady,&quot;  wants  Pierre  iced,  and  the  hit  man  is  Prince  Andrei,  Pierre's  old  college  roommate!  No  writer  who  ever  lived  possessed  a  surer  sense  of  plot  than  Tolstoy.  '\xc2\xab'Buddenbrooks.&quot;  Meet  Antonie.  She's  beautiful.  She's  talented.  She's  sexy.  She's  the  daughter  of  rich  Ger-  man  businessman  Jean  Buddenbrook.  And  she's  a  walking  time  bomb.  Some-  body  wants  her  dead,  and  she  has  been  infected  with  a  deadly  virus  that  takes  twenty-four  hours  to  work.  Half  the  city  of  [REDACTED]  goes  underground  looking  for  the  antidote,  and  the  police,  in  desperation,join  forces  with  the  mob.  Author  Thomas  Mann  in-  terweaves  these  many  strands  so  effort-  lessly  that  it  is  easy  to  see  why  he,  31  along  with  Proust  and  Joyce,  was  con-  sidered  one  of  the  three  main  ar-  chitects  of  twentieth-century  litera-  ture.  &quot;Bleak  House.&quot;  This  is  the  one  with  thecar  chase,  right?  And  the  exploding  helicopter  at  the  end!  Ex-  cellent!  A  neglected  book  but  one  of  Dickens'  best.  &quot;Ulysses.&quot;  Stephen  Dedalus,  star  of  James  Joyce's  &quot;Ulysses,&quot;  teams  up  with  twelve  beautiful  lady  truckers  to  find  the  madman  responsible  for  a  se-  ries  of  brutal  murders.  When  Stephen  himself  becomes  a  suspect,  he  turns  to  his  old  buddy  from  'Nam,  Jim  Rock-  ford.  Jim  comes  up  with  a  great  plan,  which  is  to  pretend  that  Stephen  is  dead  and  to  plant  a  fake  obituary  in  his  brother-in-law's  newspaper.  Then  Jim,  Angel,  Molly  Bloom,  Buck  Mulligan,[REDACTED],  Stephen,  and  the  twelve  beautiful  lady  truckers  fly  over  to  [REDACTED],  Stephen's  home  town.  It  is  St.  Patrick's  Day,  and  in  the  mass  of  people  the  killer  escapes.  Then  the  scene  shifts  to  New  Orleans,  where  Mardi  Gras  is  in  full  swing.  Then  it's  down  to  Rio,  for  Carnaval.  All  this  time,  Joyce  keeps  the  reader  informed  about  what  is  going  on  inside  each  character's  head.  Y  list  is,  of  course,  only  a  begin-  ning.  View  it  as  the  foundation  ofa  literary  mind;  do  not  mistake  it  for  the  edifice  itself.  If  you  approach  these  books  with  passion,  with  an  eye  to  their  symmetries  and  harmonies  and  violent  dissonances,  you  will  not  necessarily  learn  how  to  write.  But  you  will  certainly  come  nearer  an  un-  derstanding  of  what  it  is,  glorious-  ly,  to  read.  "