 b"THIS  old  station  wagon  with  [REDACTED]  platespullsinto  a  parking  space  in  front  of  the  window.  There's  a  man  and  woman  in  thefront  seat,  two  boys  in  theback.  It's  July,  temperature's  one  hundred  degrees  plus.  The  people  in  the  sta-  tion  wagon  look  whipped.  And  who  could  blame  them?  There  are  clothes  hanging  inside;  suitcases,  boxes,  and  such  piled  in  back.  From  what  my  hus-  band,  Harley,  and  I  put  together  later,  that's  all  they  had  left  after  the  bank  in  [REDACTED]  took  their  house,  pickup  truck,  tractor,  farm  implements,  and  a  few  cows.  The  people  inside  the  station  wagon  sit  for  a  minute,  as  if  collecting  them-  selves.  The  air-conditioner  in  our  apartment  is  going  full  blast.  Harley's  around  in  back  cutting  grass.  There's  some  discussion  in  the  front  seat,  and  then  the  couple  get  out  and  start  for  the  front  door.  I  pat  my  hair  to  make  sure  that  it's  in  place  and  wait  till  they  push  the  doorbell  for  the  second  time.  Then  I  go  to  let  them  in.  &quot;You're  looking  for  an  apartment?!&quot;  I  say.  &quot;Come  on  in  here  where  it's  cool.&quot;  I  show  them  into  the  living  room.  The  living  room  is  where  I  do  business.  It's  where  I  collect  rents,  write  out  re-  ceipts,  and  talk  to  interested  parties.  I  also  do  hair.  I  call  myself  a  &quot;hair  stylist.&quot;  That's  what  my  cards  say.  I  don't  like  the  word  &quot;beautician.&quot;  It's  an  old-time  word.  I  have  thechair  in  a  corner  of  theliving  room,  and  a  dryer  I  can  pull  up  to  the  back  of  the  chair.  And  there's  a  sink  that  Harley  put  in  a  few  years  ago.  Alongside  the  chair  I  have  a  table  with  some  magazines.  The  magazines  are  old.  The  covers  are  gonefrom  some  of  them.  But  peo-  ple  will  look  at  anything  while  they're  under  the  dryer.  The  man  says  his  name.  &quot;My  name  is  Holits.&quot;  He  tells  me  she's  his  wife.  But  she  won't  look  at  me.  She  looks  at  her  nails  instead.  She  and  Holits  won't  sit  down,  either.  He  says  they're  inter-  ested  in  one  of  the  furnished  two-  bedroom  units.  &quot;How  many  of  you?&quot;  ButI'm  just  saying  what  I  always  say.  I  know  how  many.  I  saw  the  two  boys  in  the  back  seat.  T  wo  and  two  is  four.  &quot;&quot;Me  and  her  and  the  two  boys.  The  boys  are  thirteen  and  fourteen,  and  they'll  share  a  room,  like  always.&quot;  She  has  her  arms  crossed  and  is  holding  the  sleeves  of  her  blouse.  She  takes  in  the  chair  and  the  sink  as  if  she's  never  seen  their  like  before.  Maybe  she  hasn't.  &quot;I  do  hair,&quot;  I  say. She  nods.  Then  she  gives  my  prayer  plant  the  once-over.  It  has  exactly  five  leaves  to  it.  &quot;That  needs  watering,&quot;  I  say.  I  go  over  and  touch  one  of  its  leaves.  &quot;Ev-  erything  around  here  needs  water.  There's  not  enough  moisture  in  the  air.  It  rains  three  times  a  year,  if  we're  lucky.  But  you'll  get  used  to  it.  We  had  to  get  used  to  it.  But  everything  here,  and  I  mean  everything,  is  air-  conditioned.&quot;  &quot;How  much  is  the  apartment?&quot;  Holits  wants  to  know.  I  tell  him,  and  he  turns  to  see  what  she  thinks.  But  he  may  as  well  have  been  looking  at  the  wall.  She  won't  give  him  back  his  look.  &quot;I  guess  we'll  have  you  show  us,&quot;  he  says.  So  I  move  to  get  the  key  for17,  and  we  go  outside.  I  hear  Harley  before  I  see  him.  Then  he  comes  into  sight  between  the  buildings.  He's  moving  along  be-  hind  the  power  mower  in  his  Bermudas  and  T-shirt,  wearing  a  straw  hat  he  bought  in  Nogales.  He  spends  his  time  cutting  grass  and  doing  the  small  maintenance  work.  We  work  for  a  corporation,  Fulton  Terrace,  Inc.  They  own  this  place.  If  anything  ma-  jor  goes  wrong,  like  air-conditioning  trouble  or  something  serious  in  the  plumbing  department,  we  have  a  list  of  phone  numbers.  I  wave.  I  have  to.  He  takes  a  hand  off  the  mower  handle  and  signals.  Then  he  pulls  the  hat  down  over  his  forehead  and  gives  his  attention  back  to  what  he's  doing.  He  comes  to  the  end  of  his  cut,  makes  his  turn,  and  starts  back  toward  the  street.  &quot;That's  Harley.&quot;  I  have  to  shout  it.  We  go  in  at  the  side  of  the  building  and  up  some  stairs.  &quot;What  kind  of  work  are  you  in,  Mr.  Holits?&quot;  I  ask  him.  &quot;He's  a  farmer,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;No  more.&quot;  &quot;Not  much  to  farm  around  here.&quot;  I  say  it  without  thinking.  &quot;We  had  us  a  farm  in  [REDACTED].  Raised  wheat.  A  few  cattle.  And  Holits  knows  horses.  He  knows  every-  thing  there  is  about  horses.&quot;  " b"&quot;That's  all  right,  Betty.&quot;  I  get  a  piece  of  the  picture  then.  Holits  is  unemployed.  It's  not  my  af-  fair,  and  I  feel  sorry  if  that's  the  case  -it  is,  it  turns  out-but  as  we  stop  in  front  of  theunit  I  have  to  say  some-  thing.  &quot;If  you  decide,  it's  first  month,  last  month,  and  a  hundred  and  fifty  security  deposit.&quot;  I  look  down  at  the  pool  as  I  say  it.  Some  people  are  sitting  in  deck  chairs,  and  there's  somebody  in  the  water.  Holits  wipes  his  face  with  the  back  of  his  hand.  Harley's  mower  is  clack-  ing  away.  Farther  off,  cars  speed  by  on  Calle  Verde.  The  two  boys  have  got  out  ofthe  station  wagon.  One  of  them  is  standing  at  military  attention,  legs  together,  arms  at  his  sides.  But  as  I  watch  I  see  him  begin  to  flap  his  arms  up  and  down  and  jump,  like  he  intends  to  take  off  and  fly.  The  other  one  is  squatting  down  on  the  driver's  side  of  the  station  wagon  doing  knee  bends.  I  turn  to  Holits.  &quot;Let's  have  a  look,&quot;  he  says.  I  turn  the  key  and  the  door  opens.  It's  just  a  little  two-bedroom  furnished  apartment.  Everybody  has  seen  dozens.  Holits  stops  in  the  bathroom  long  enough  to  flush  the  toilet.  He  watches  till  the  tank  fills.  Later  he  says,  &quot;This  could  be  our  room.&quot;  He's  talking  about  the  bedroom  that  looks  outover  the  pool.  In  the  kitchen,  the  woman  takes  hold  of  the  edge  of  the  drain-  board  and  stares  out  the  window.  &quot;That's  the  swimming  pool,&quot;  I  say.  She  nods.  &quot;We  stayed  in  some  mo-  tels  that  had  swimming  pools.  But  in  one  pool  they  had  too  much  chlorine  in  the  water.&quot;  I  wait  for  her  to  go  on.  But  that's  all  she  says.  I  can't  think  of  anything  else,  either.  &quot;I  guess  we  won't  waste  any  more  time.  I  guess  we'll  take  it.&quot;  Holits  looks  at  her  as  he  says  it.  This  time  she  meets  his  eyes.  She  nods.  He  lets  out  breath  through  his  teeth.  Then  she  does  something.  She  begins  snap-  ping  her  fingers.  One  hand  is  still  holding  the  edge  of  the  drainboard,  but  with  her  other  hand  she  begins  snapping  her  fingers.  Snap,  snap,snap,  like  she  was  calling  her  dog,  or  else  trying  to  get  somebody's  attention.  Then  she  stops  and  runs  her  nails  across  the  counter.  I  don't  know  what  to  make  of  it.  Holits  doesn't,  either.  He  moves  his  feet.  &quot;We'll  walk  back  to  the  office  and  make  things  official,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;I'm   glad.&quot;  I  was  glad.  For  some  reason  we  had  a  lot  of  empty  units  for  this  time  of  year.  And  these  people  seemed  like  dependable  people.  Down  on  their  luck,  that's  all.  No  disgrace  can  be  attached  to  that.  Holits  pays  in  cash-first,  last,  and  the  hundred-and-fifty  deposit.  He  counts  out  bills  of  fifty-dollar  denomi-  nation  while  I  watch.  U.  S.  Grants,  Harley  calls  them,  though  he's  never  seen  that  many  himself.  I  write  out  Holits's  receipt  and  give  him  two  keys.  &quot;You're  all  set.&quot;  He  looks  at  the  keys.  He  hands  her  one.  &quot;So,  we're  in  [REDACTED].  Never  thought  you'd  see  this  place,  did  you?&quot;  She  shakes  her  head.  She's  touching  one  ofthe  leaves  belonging  to  my  prayer  plant.  &quot;Needs  water,&quot;  I  say.  She  lets  go  of  the  leaf  and  turns  to  the  window.  I  go  over  next  to  her.  Harley  is  still  cutting  grass.  But  he's  around  in  front  now.  There's  been  this  talk  of  farming,  so  for  a  minute  I  can  imagine  Harley  moving  along  behind  a  plow,  instead  of  his  Black  &amp;  Decker  power  mower.  WATCH  them  unload  their  boxes,  suitcases,  and  clothes.  Holits  carriesin  something  that  has  straps  dangling  from  it.  It  takes  a  minute,  but  then  I  figure  out  it's  a  bridle.  I  don't  know  what  to  do  next.  I  don't  feel  like  doing  anything.  So  I  takethe  Grants  out  of  the  cashbox.  I  just  put  them  in  there,  but  I  take  them  out  again.  The  bills  have  come  from  Min-  nesota.  Who  knows  where  they'll  be  this  time  next  week?  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  maybe.  All  I  know  about  556e6974656420537461746573is  what  I  see  on  TV-about  enough  to  put  into  a  thimble.  I  can  imagine  one  of  the  Grants  finding  its  way  out  to  Waikiki  [REDACTED],  or  else  some  other  place.  [REDACTED]  or  New  York  City.  New  Orleans.  I  think  about  one  of  those  bills  changing  hands  during  Mardi  Gras.  They  could  go  anyplace,  and  anything  could  happen  because  of  them.  I  write  my  name  in  ink  across  Grant's  broad  old  forehead:  &quot;MARGE.&quot;  I  print  it.  I  do  it  on  all  the  bills.  Right  over  his  thick  brows.  People  will  stop  in  the  midst  of  their  spend-  ing  and  wonder.  Who's  this  Marge,  they'll  ask  themselves.  Harley  comes  in  from  outside  and  washes  his  hands  in  my  sink.  He  knows  it's  something  I  don't  like  him  to  do.  But  he  goes  ahead  and  does  it  anyway.  &quot;'Those  people  from  [REDACTED],&quot;  he  says.  &quot;The  Swedes.  They're  a  long  way  from  home.&quot;  He  dries  his  hands  on  a  paper  towel.  He  wants  me  to  tell  him  what  I  know.  But  I  don't  know  anything.  They  don't  look  like  Swedes  and  they  don't  talk  like  Swedes.  &quot;They're  not  Swedes,&quot;  I  tell  him.  But  he  acts  like  he  doesn't  hear  me.  Maybe  he  doesn't.  &quot;So  what's  he  do?&quot;  &quot;He's  a  farmer.&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  know  about  that?&quot;  He  takes  his  hat  off  and  puts  it  on  my  " b"chair.  He  runs  a  hand  through  his  hair.  Then  he  looks  at  the  hat  and  puts  it  on  again.  He  may  as  wellbe  glued  to  it.  &quot;There's  not  much  to  farm  around  here.  Did  you  tell  him  that?&quot;  He  gets  a  can  of  soda  pop  from  the  fridge  and  goes  to  sit  in  his  recliner.  He  picks  up  the  remote-control  device,  pushes  something,  and  the  TV  sizzles  on.  He  pushes  other  buttons  until  he  finds  the  channel  he's  looking  for.  It's  a  hospital  show.  &quot;What  else  does  the  Swede  do?  Besides  farm?&quot;  I  don't  know,  so  I  don't  say  any-  thing.  But  he's  already  taken  up  with  his  program.  He's  probably  forgotten  he  asked  me  the  question.  A  siren  goes  off.  I  hear  the  screech  of  tires.  On  the  screen,  an  ambulance  has  come  to  a  stop  in  front  of  an  emergency-room  entrance,  its  red  lights  flashing.  A  man  in  white  jumps  out  on  the  driver's  side  and  runs  around  to  open  the  back  door  of  the  ambulance.  THE  next  afternoon  the  boys  bor-  row  the  hose  and  wash  the  sta-  tion  wagon.  They  clean  theoutside  and  the  inside.  A  little  later,  I  notice  her  drive  away.  She's  wearing  high  heels  and  anice  dress.  Job  hunting,  'd  say.  After  a  while,  I  see  the  boys  mess-  ing  around  the  pool  in  their  bathing  suits.  One  of  them  springs  off  the  board  and  swims  the  length  of  the  pool  underwater.  He  comes  up  blowing  water  and  shaking  his  head.  The  other  boy,  the  one  who'd  been  doing  knee  bends  the  day  before,  lies  on  his  stomach  on  a  towel  at  the  far  side  of  the  pool.  But  this  oneboy  keeps  swimming  back  and  forth  from  one  end  of  the  pool  to  the  other,  touch-  ing  the  wall  and  turning  back  with  a  little  kick.  There  are  two  other  people  in  the  pool  area.  They're  in  lounge  chairs,  one  on  either  side  of  the  pool.  One  of  them  is  Irving  Cobb,  a  cook  at  Denny's  restaurant.  He  calls  himself  Chef.  People  have  taken  to  calling  him  that,  Chef,  instead  of  Irv  or  some  other  nickname.  Chef  is  fifty-five  years  old  and  bald.  He  already  looks  like  beef  jerky,  but  he  wants  more  sun.  Even  the  dome  of  his  head  is  brown.  Right  now,  his  new  wife,  Linda  Cobb,  is  at  work  at  K  Mart.  Chef  works  nights.  But  he  and  Linda  Cobb  have  it  arranged  so  they  take  their  Saturdays  and  their  Sundays  off.  Connie  Nova  is  in  the  other  chair.  As  I  watch,  she  sits  up  and  leans  forward  to  rub  lotion  over  her  bare  legs.  She's  nearly  naked  -just  a  bikini  covering  her.  Connie  Nova  is  a  cocktail  waitress  who  moved  in  here  six  months  ago  with  her  so-  called  fianc\xc3\xa9,  an  alcoholic  lawyer.  She  got  rid  of  him.  Now  she  lives  with  a  long-haired  student  from  the  college.  The  long-hair's  name  is  Rick.  I  hap-  pen  to  know  he's  away  right  now,  visiting  his  parents.  Chef  and  Connie  are  wearing  dark  glasses.  Connie's  portable  radio  is  going.  Chefwas  a  recent  widower  when  he  moved  in,  a  year  or  so  back.  But  after  a   few  months  of  bachelorhood  he  got  married  to  Linda.  She's  a  red-haired  woman  in  her  thirties.  I  don't  know  how  they  met.  But  one  night  a  couple  of  months  ago  Chef  and  the  new  Mrs.  Cobb  had  Harley  and  me  over  to  a  nice  dinner  that  Chef  fixed.  After  dinner,  we  sat  in  their  living  room  drinking  sweet  drinks  out  of  big  glasses.  Chef  asked  if  we  wanted  to  see  home  mov-  ies.  We  said  sure.  So  Chef  proceeded  to  set  up  his  screen  and  his  projector.  Linda  Cobb  poured  us  more  of  that  sweet  drink.  Where's  the  harm,  I  asked  myself.  Chef  began  to  show  films  of  a  trip  he  and  his  first  wife  had  made  to  [REDACTED].  The  film  began  with  Chef's  deceased  wife  boarding  the  plane  in  [REDACTED].  Chef  talked  as  he  ran  the  projector.  The  deceased  was  in  her  fifties,  good-looking,  though  maybe  a  little  heavy.  Her  hair  was  nice.  &quot;That's  Chef's  first  wife,&quot;  Linda  Cobb  said.  &quot;That's  the  first  Mrs.  Cobb.&quot;  &quot;That's  Evelyn,&quot;  Chef  said.  The  first  wife  stayed  on  the  screen  for  a  long  while.  I  was  uncomfortable  having  to  look  at  her  and  hear  them  talk  about  her  like  nothing  was  un-  usual.  Harley  passed  me  a  look,  so  I  " b"know  he  was  feeling  something,  too.  Linda  Cobb  asked  if  we  wanted  an-  other  drink,  or  a  macaroon.  We  didn't.  Chef  was  saying  something  about  the  first  Mrs.  Cobb  again.  She  was  still  at  the  entrance  to  the  plane,  smiling  and  mouthing  words  as  the  film  whirred  through  the  projector  be-  hind  my  head.  People  had  to  go  around  her  to  board.  She  kept  waving  at  the  camera,  waving  at  us  there  in  Chef's  living  room.  She  waved  and  waved.  &quot;There's  Evelyn  again,&quot;  the  new  Mrs.  Cobb  would  say  each  time  the  first  Mrs.  Cobb  appeared  on  the  screen.  Chef  would  have  shown  films  all  night,  but  we  said  we  had  to  go.  Harley  made  the  excuse.  I  don't  re-  member  what  he  said.  Connie  Nova  is  lying  on  her  back  in  the  chair,  dark  glasses  covering  half  of  her  face.  Her  legs  and  stomach  gleam  with  oil.  One  night,  not  long  after  she  moved  in,  she  had  a  party.  This  was  before  she  kicked  the  lawyer  out  and  took  up  with  the  long-haired  student.  She  called  her  party  a  housewarming.   Harleyand  I  were  invited,  along  with  a  bunch  of  other  people.  We  went,  but  we  didn't  care  for  the  company.  We  found  a  place  to  sit  closeto  the  door,  and  that's  where  we  stayed  till  we  left.  It  wasn't  all  that  long,  either.  Con-  nie's  boyfriend  was  giving  a  grand  door  prize.  It  consisted  of  the  offer  of  his  legal  services,  without  charge-  specifically  for  the  handling  of  a  di-  vorce.  Anybody's  divorce.  Anybody  who  wanted  to  could  draw  a  card  out  of  the  bowl  of  lawyer  cards  he  passed  around.  When  the  bowl  came  in  our  direction,  everybody  began  to  laugh.  Harley  and  I  swapped  glances.  I  didn't  draw.  Harley  didn't  draw,  either.  But  I  sawhim  look  in  the  bowl  at  the  pile  of  cards.  Then  he  shook  his  head  and  handed  the  bowl  to  the  person  next  to  him.  Even  Chef  and  the  new  Mrs.  Cobb  drew  cards.  The  winning  card  had  something  written  across  the  back.  &quot;Entitles  bearer  to  one  free  uncon-  tested  divorce,&quot;  and  the  lawyer's  sig-  nature  and  the  date.  The  lawyer  was  a  drunk,  but  this  is  no  way  to  conduct  your  life.  Everybody  but  us  had  put  his  hand  into  the  bowl,  like  it  was  a  fun  thing  to  do.  The  woman  who  drew  the  winning  card  clapped.  It  was  like  one  of  those  game  shows.  &quot;God  damn,  this  is  the  first  time  I  ever  won  any-  thing!&quot;  I  was  told  she  had  a  husband  in  the  military.  There's  no  way  of  knowing  if  she  still  has  him,  or  if  she  gother  divorce,  because  Connie  Nova  took  up  with  a  different  set  of  friends  after  she  and  the  lawyer  went  their  separate  ways.  We  left  the  party  right  after  the  drawing.  It  made  such  an  impression  we  couldn't  say  much  af-  terwards,  except  one  of  us  said,  &quot;I  don't  believe  I  saw  what  I  think  I  saw.&quot;  Maybe  I  said  it.  A  WEEK  later  Harley  asks  if  the  Swede-he  means  Holits-has  found  work  yet.  We've  just  had  lunch,  and  he'sin  his  chair  with  his  can  of  pop.  But  he  hasn't  turned  his  TV  on.  I  say  I  don't  know.  And  I  don't.  I  wait  to  see  what  else  he  has  tosay.  But  he  doesn't  say  anything  else.  He  shakes  " b" his  head.  He  seems  to  think  about  something.  Then  he  pushes  a  button  and  the  TV  comes  to  life.  She  finds  a  job.  She  starts  working  as  a  waitress  in  an  Italian  restaurant  a  few  blocks  from  the  apartment.  She  works  a  split  shift,  doing  lunches  and  then  going  home,  then  back  to  work  again  in  time  for  the  dinner  shift.  She's  meeting  herself  coming  and  go-  ing.  The  boys  swim  all  day,  while  Holits  stays  inside  the  apartment.  I  don't  know  what  he  does  in  there.  Once,  I  did  her  hair  and  she  told  me  a  few  things  about  herself.  She  told  me  she  did  waitressing  when  she  was  just  out  of  high  school  and  that's  where  she  met  Holits.  She  served  him  some  pancakes  in  a  caf\xc3\xa9  back  in  [REDACTED].  She'd  walked  down  that  morning  and  asked  if  I  could  do  her  a  big  favor.  She  wanted  me  to  fix  her  hair  later,  after  her  lunch  shift,  and  have  her  out  in  time  for  her  dinner  shift.  Could  I  do  that?  I  told  her  I'd  check  the  book.  I  asked  her  to  step  inside.  It  must  have  been  a  hundred  degrees  already.  &quot;I  know  it's  short  notice,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;But  when  I  came  in  from  work  last  night  I  looked  in  the  mirror  and  saw  my  roots  starting  to  show.  I  said  to  myself,  'I  need  atreatment.'  I  don't  know  where  else  to  go.&quot;  I  find  Friday,  August  14th.  There's  nothing  on  the  page.  &quot;I  could  work  you  in  at  two-thirty,  or  else  at  three  o'clock.&quot;  &quot;'Three  would  be  better.  I  have  to  run  for  it  now  before  I'm  late.  I  work  for  a  real  bastard.  See  you  later.&quot;  At  two-thirty  I  tell  Harley  I  have  a  customer,  so  he'll  have  to  take  his  baseball  game  into  the  bedroom.  He  grumps,  but  he  winds  up  the  cord  and  wheels  the  set  into  the  bedroom.  He  closes  the  door.  I  make  sure  everything  I  need  for  the  job  is  ready.  I  arrange  the  magazines  so  they're  easy  to  get  to.  Then  I  sit  next  to  the  dryer  and  file  my  nails.  I'mwearing  the  rose-colored  uniform  that  I  put  on  when  I  do  hair.  I  go  on  filing  my  nails  and  look  up  at  the  window  from  time  to  time.  She  walks  by  the  window  and  then  pushes  the  doorbell.  &quot;Come  on  in,&quot;  I  call.  &quot;It's  unlocked.&quot;  She's  wearing  the  black-and-white  uniform  from  her  job.  It  strikes  me  that  we're  both  wearing  uniforms.  &quot;Sit  down,  honey,  and  we'll  get  started.&quot;  She  looks  at  the  nail  file.  &quot;I  give  manicures,  too,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;No,  that's  all  right.&quot;  She  settles  into  the  chair  and  draws  a  breath.  &quot;Put  yourhead  back.  That's  it.  Close  your  eyes  now,  why  don't  you?  Just  relax.  First  I'll  shampoo  you  and  touch  up  these  roots.  Then  we'll  go  from  there.  How  much  time  do  you  have?&quot;  &quot;I  have  to  be  back  there  at  five-  thirty.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;We'll  get  you  fixed  up.&quot;  &quot;I  can  eat  at  work.  But  I  don't  know  what  Holits  and  the  boys  will  do  for  their  supper.&quot;  &quot;They'll  get  along  fine  without  you.&quot;  I  start  the  warm  water  and  then  notice  Harley's  left  me  some  dirt  and  grass.  I  wipe  up  his  traces  and  start  over.  &quot;If  they  want,  they  can  just  walk  down  the  street  to  that  hamburger  place.  It  won't  hurt  them.&quot;  &quot;They  won't  do  that.  Anyway,  I  don't  want  them  to  have  to  go  there.&quot;  It's  none  of  my  business,  so  I  don't  say  any  more.  I  make  up  anice  lather  and  go  to  work.  After  I've  done  the  shampoo,  rinse,  and  set,  I  puther  un-  der  the  dryer.  Her  eyes  have  closed.  I  think  she  could  be  asleep.  So  I  take  one  of  her  hands  and  begin.  &quot;No  manicure.&quot;  She  opens  her  eyes.  &quot;It's  all  right,  honey.  The  first  manicure  is  always  free  of  charge.&quot;  &quot;In  that  case,  thanks.&quot;  She  picks  up  one  of  the  magazines.  She  flips  the  pages  with  her  free  hand  and  then  lets  it  rest  in  her  lap.  &quot;They're  his  boys.  From  his  first  marriage.  He  was  di-  vorced  whenwe  met.  But  I  love  them  like  they  were  my  own.  I  couldn't  love  them  any  more  if  I  tried.  Even  if  I  was  their  natural  mother.  Holits  and  I  have  been  married  for  eight  years,  go-  ing  on  nine.  We  couldn't  have  any  children.  We  tried.It  must  be  my  fault.&quot;  I  turn  the  dryer  down  a  notch  so  that  it's  making  a  low,  quiet  sound.  I  keep  on  with  her  nails.  Her  hand  starts  to  relax.  &quot;But  that's  the  way  it  goes.  Those  that  want  to  can't,  And,  sometimes,  them  that  can  shouldn't.  She  lit  out  on  them,  on  Holits  and  the  boys,  on  New  Year's  Day  ten  years  ago.  They  never  heard  from  her  again.&quot;  I  can  see  she  wants  to  tell  me  about  it.  And  that's  fine  withme.  They  like  to  talk  when  " b"they're  in  the  chair.  I  goon  using  the  file.  &quot;Holits  got  the  divorce.  Some  time  later,  he  and  I  started  going  out.  Then  we  got  married.  For  a  long  while  we  had  usa  life.  It  had  its  ups  and  downs.  But  we  thought  we  were  working  toward  something.  That's  a  laugh.&quot;  She  shakes  her  head.  &quot;But  something  happened  in  there.  Some-  thing  happened  to  Holits,  I  mean.  One  thing  that  happened  was  he  got  inter-  ested  in  race  horses.  This  one  particu-  lar  race  horse.  He  bought  it,  you  know  -something  down,  something  each  month.  He  took  it  around  to  the  tracks.  At  the  time,  it  didn't  seem  like  he  was  letting  any  of  the  other  things  go.  He  was  still  up  before  daylight,  like  always,  to  do  chores  and  such.  I  thought  everything  was  all  right.  But  I  don't  know  anything.  If  you  want  the  truth,  I'm  not  very  good  at  waiting  tables.  I  think  those  wops  would  fire  me  at  the  drop  of  a  hat,  if  I  gave  them  a  reason.  Or  for  no  reason!  That's  the  kind  of  security  I  have  these  days.  What  if  I  got  fired?  Then  what'd  happen  to  us?&quot;  &quot;Don't  worry,  honey.  They're  not  going  to  fire  you.&quot;  Pretty  soon  she  picks  up  another  magazine.  But  she  doesn't  open  it.  She  holds  it  and  just  goes  on  talking.  &quot;Anyway,  there's  this  horse  of  his.  Betty  Bliss.  The  Bliss  part  is  a  joke.  But  he  says  it  can't  help  be  a  winner  if  he  names  it  after  me.  A  big  winner,  all  right.  The  fact  is,  wherever  it  ran  it  was  a  long  shot.  Every  race.  Betty  Longshot-that's  what  it  should  have  been  called.  In  the  beginning,  I  went  to  a  few  races.  But  the  horse  always  ran  ninety-nine  to  one.  Odds  like  that.  Holits  is  stubborn,  if  he's  anything.  He  wouldn't  give  up.  He'd  bet  on  the  horse  and  bet  on  the  horse.  Twenty  dollars  to  win.  Fifty  dollars  to  win.  Plus  all  the  other  expenses  for  keeping  a  horse.  I  know  it  don't  sound  like  a  large  amount.  But  it  adds  up.  And  when  the  odds  were  like  that-ninety-  nine  to  one,  you  know  -sometimes  he'd  buy  a  combination  ticket.  He'd  ask  me  if  I  realized  how  much  money  we'd  make  if  the  horse  came  in  first.  But  it  ran  last,  as  always.  I  quit  go-  ing.&quot;  I  keep  on  with  what  I'm  doing.  I  concentrate  on  her  nails.  &quot;You  have  nice  cuticles,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;Look  here  at  your  cuticles.  See  these  little  half-  moons?  Means  your  blood's  good.&quot;  She  brings  her  hand  up  close  and  looks.  &quot;What  do  you  know  about  that?&quot;  She  shrugs.  She  lets  me  take  her  hand  again.  She's  still  got  things  to  tell.  &quot;Once,  when  I  was  in  high  school,  a  counsellor  asked  me  to  come  to  her  office,  She  did  it  with  all  the  girls,  one  of  us  at  a  time.  'What  dreams  do  you  have&quot;&quot;  this  woman  asked  me.  'What  goals  have  you  set  for  yourself?  What  do  you  see  yourself  doing  in  ten  years?  Twenty  years&quot;&quot;  I  was  sixteen  or  seventeen  at  the  time.  I  was  just  a  kid.  I  couldn't  think  what  to  answer.  I  sat  there  like  a  lump.  Then  I  grinned.  My  life  was  just  beginning.  This  counsellor  was  about  the  age  I  am  now.  I  thought  she  was  old.  'She's    old,&quot;  I  said  to  myself.  'Washed  up,  probably.&quot;  Maybe  she  was.  Christ,  who  knows?  Who  knows  anything!?  But  I  knew  her  life  was  half  over.  And  I  felt  like  I  knew  something  she  didn't.  Something  she'd  never  know.  A  secret.  Something  nobody's  supposed  to  know,  let  alone  talk  about.  So  I  stayed  quiet.  I  just  shook  my  head.  She  must've  written  me  off  as  a  retard.  Come  to  think  of  it,  maybe  I  was.  Maybe  I  am!  I  think  I  may  have  started  to  grin  some  more.  But  I  couldn't  say  any-  thing.  You  know  what  I  mean?  I  thought  I  knew  things  she  couldn't  guess  at.  Now,  if  anybody  asked  me  that  question  again,  about  my  dreams  and  all,  I'd  tell  them.&quot;  &quot;What  would  you  tell  them,  hon-  ey?&quot;  I  have  her  other  hand  now.  But  I'm  not  doing  her  nails.  I'm  just  holding  it,  waiting  to  hear.  She  moves  forward  in  the  chair.  She  tries  to  take  her  hand  back.  &quot;What  would  you  tell  them?&quot;  She  sighs  and  leansback.  She  lets  me  keep  the  hand.  &quot;I'd  say,  'Dreams,  you  know,  are  what  you  wake  up  from.&quot;  That's  what  I'd  say.&quot;  She  smooths  the  lap  of  her  skirt.  &quot;If  any-  body  asked,  that's  what  I'd  say.  But  they  won't  ask.  As  I  said.&quot;  She  lets  out  her  breath  again.  &quot;So  how  much  longer?&quot;  &quot;Not  long,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;You  don't  know  what  it's  like.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  I  do,&quot;  I  say.  I  pull  the  stool  right  up  next  to  her  legs.  I'm  starting  to  tell  how  it  was  before  we  moved  here,  and  how  it's  still  like  that.  But  " b"Harley  picks  that  minute  to  come  out  of  the  bedroom.  He  doesn't  look  at  us.  As  far  as  he's  concerned,  we're  not  there.  I  hear  the  TV  jabbering  away  in  the  bedroom.  Harley  goes  to  the  sink  and  draws  a  glass  of  water.  He  tips  his  head  back  to  drink.  His  Adam's  apple  moves  up  and  down  in  his  throat.  I  move  the  dryer  away  and  touch  the  hair  at  both  sides  of  her  head.  I  lift  one  of  the  curls  just  a  little.  You  look  brand-new,  honey.&quot;  &quot;Don't  I  wish.&quot;  HE  boys  continue  to  swim  all  day,  every  day,  till  their  school  starts.  Betty  keeps  her  job,  but  for  some  reason  she  doesn't  come  back  to  get  her  hair  done.  I  don't  know  why  this  is.  Maybe  she  doesn't  think  I  did  a  good  job.  But  I  think  it's  something  else.  Sometimes  I  lie  awake,Harley  sleeping  like  a  grindstone  beside  me,  and  tryto  picture  myself  in  her  shoes.  I  wonder  what  I'd  do  then.  Holits  sends  one  of  his  sons  with  the  rent  on  the  first  of  September,  and  on  the  first  of  October,  too.  He  still  pays  in  cash.  I  take  the  money  from  the  boy,  count  the  bills  right  there  in  front  of  him,  and  then  write  out  the  receipt.  Holits  has  found  work  of  some  sort.  I  think  so,  anyway.  In  any  case,  he  drives  off  every  daywith  the  station  wagon.  I  see  him  leaveearly  in  the  morning  and  drive  back  late  in  the  afternoon.  She  goes  past  the  window  at  ten-thirty  and  comes  back  at  three.  If  she  sees  me,  she  gives  me  a  little  wave.  But  she's  not  smiling.  Then  I  see  her  again  at  five,  walking  back  to  the  restaurant.  Holits  drives  in  a  lit-  tle  later.  This  goes  on  till  mid-Octo-  ber.  Meanwhile,  the  Holits  couple  had  acquainted  themselves  with  Connie  Nova  and  her  long-haired  boyfriend,  Rick.  And  they'd  also  met  up  with  Chef  and  the  new  Mrs.  Cobb.  Some-  times,  on  a  Sunday  afternoon,  I'd  see  all  of  them  sitting  around  the  pool,  drinks  in  their  hands,  listening  to  Connie's  portable  radio.  On  one  such  occasion,  Harley  saw  them  behind  the  building,  in  the  barbecue  area.  They  were  in  their  bathing  suits  then,  too.  Harley  remarked  that  the  Swede  had  a  chest  like  a  bull,  He  said  they  were  eating  hot  dogs  and  drinking  whiskey.  He  said  they  were  drunk.  IT  was  Saturday,  and  it  was  after  eleven  at  night.  Harley  was  asleep  in  his  chair  in  front  of  the  TV.  Pretty  soon  I'd  have  to  get  up  and  turn  off  the  set.  When  I  did  that,  I  knew  he'd  wake  up.  &quot;Why'd  you  turn  that  off?  I  was  watching  that  show.&quot;  That's  what  he'd  say.  He  always  said  that.  That's  one  reason  I  hated  to  turn  it  off.  Anyway,  the  TV  was  going.  I  had  the  curlers  in,  and  a  magazine  on  my  lap.  Now  and  then  I'd  glance  at  the  TV.  But  I  couldn't  concentrate  on  the  show  or  on  anything  else.  For  the  last  hour  they'd  all  been  in  the  pool  area.  They'd  moved  the  party  out  there.  Chef  and  Linda  Cobb,  Connie  Nova  and  the  long-haired  boyfriend,  Holits  and  Betty.  We  have  a  rule  against  anyone  being  out  there  after  ten  o'clock.  But  this  night  they  didn't  care  about  rules.  If  Harley  woke  up,  he'd  go  out  and  say  something.  I  felt  it  was  all  right  for  them  to  have  their  fun,  but  enough  is  enough.  I  wanted  them  to  stop.  I  kept  getting  up  and  going  over  to  the  window.  All  of  them  ex-  cept  Betty  had  on  bathing  suits.  She  was  still  in  her  black-and-white  uni-  form.  But  she  had  her  shoes  off,  a  glass  in  her  hand,  and  she  was  drink-  ing  along  with  the  rest  of  them.  I  kept  postponing  having  to  turn  off  the  set.  Then  one  of  them  shouted  something,  and  another  one  took  it  up  and  began  to  laugh.  I  looked  and  saw  Holits  finish  off  his  drink.  He  put  the  glass  down  on  the  deck.  Then  he  walked  over  to  the  cabana.  He  dragged  up  one  of  the  tables  and  climbed  onto  that.  Then-he  seemed  to  do  it  without  any  effort  at  all-he  lifted  himself  up  onto  the  roof  of  the  cabana.  It's  true,  I  thought;  he's  built  like  a  Tarzan.  The  long-hair,  Rick,  claps  his  hands,  as  if  he's  applauding  Holits.  The  rest  of  them  are  hooting  him  on,  too.  I  know  I'm  going  to  have  to  go  out  and  put  a  stop  to  it.  Harley's  slumped  in  his  chair.  The  TV's  still  going.  I  ease  the  door  open,  step  out,  and  then  push  it  shut  be-  hind  me.  Holits  is  upon  the  roof  of  the  cabana.  They're  egging  him  on.  They're  saying,  &quot;Go  on,  you  can  do  it.&quot;  &quot;Don't  belly-flop  now.&quot;  &quot;I  dou-  ble-dare  you.&quot;  Things  like  that.  Then  I  hear  Betty's  voice.  &quot;Holits,  think  what  you're  doing.&quot;  But  Holits  just  stands  there  at  the  edge  ofthe  roof.  He  looks  down  at  the  water.  He  seems  to  becalculating  how  much  of  a  run  he's  going  to  have  to  make  to  get  out  there.  He  backs  up  to  the  far  side  of  the  cabana.  He  spits  in  his  palm  and  rubs  his  hands  together.  Chef  calls  out,  &quot;That's  it,  boy!  You'll  do  it  now.&quot;  And  at  that  instant  Holits  breaks  for  it.  I  see  him  hit  the  deck.  I  hear  him,  " b"too.  &quot;Holits!&quot;&quot;  Betty  cries.  They  all  hurry  over  to  him.  By  the  time  I  get  there,  he's  sitting  up.  Rick  is  hold-  ing  him  by  the  shoul-  ders  and  yelling  into  his  face.  &quot;Holits!  Hey,  man!&quot;  Holits  has  this  gash  on  his  forehead,  and  his  eyes  are  glassy.  Chef  and  Rick  help  him  into  a  deck  chair.  Some-  body  gives  him  a  towel.  But  Holits  holds  the  towel  as  if  he  doesn't  know  what  he's  sup-  posed  to  do  with  it.  Somebody  else  hands  him  adrink.  But  Holits  \xef\xac\x82  doesn't  know  what  to  do  with  that,  either.  People  t  keep  saying  things  to  him.  Holits  brings  the  towel  up  to  his  face.  Then  he  takes  it  away  and  looks  at  the  blood.  But  he  just  looks  at  it.  He  can't  seem  to  under-  stand  anything.  &quot;Let  me  see  him.&quot;  I  get  around  in  front  of  him.  It's  bad.  &quot;Holits,  are  you  all  right?&quot;  But  Holits  just  looks  at  me,  without  registering,  and  then  his  eyes  drift  off.  &quot;I  think  he'd  best  go  to  the  emergency  room.&quot;  Betty  looks  at  mewhen  I  say  this  and  begins  to  shake  her  head.  She  looks  back  at  Holits.  She  gives  him  another  towel.  I  think  she's  sober.  But  the  rest  of  them  are  drunk.  Drunk  is  the  best  that  can  be  said  for  them.  Chef  picks  up  what  I  said.  &quot;Let's  take  him  to  the  emergency  room.&quot;  Rick  says,  &quot;I'll  go,  too.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;We'll  all  go,&quot;  Connie  Nova  says.  &quot;We  better  stick  together,&quot;  Linda  Cobb  says.  &quot;Holits.&quot;  I  say  his  name  again.  &quot;I  can't  go  it,&quot;  Holits  says.  &quot;What'd  he  say?&quot;  Connie  Nova  asks  me.  &quot;He  said  he  can't  go  it,&quot;  I  tell  her.  &quot;Go  what?  What's  he  talking  about?&quot;  Rick  wants  to  know.  &quot;Say  again?&quot;&quot;  Chef  says.  &quot;I  didn't  hear.&quot;  &quot;He  says  he  can't  go  it.  I  don't  think  he  knows  what  he's  talking  about.  He  might  have  a  concussion.  You'd  best  take  him  to  the  hospital,&quot;  I  say.  Then  I  remember  Harleyand  the  rules.  &quot;You  shouldn't  have  been  out  here.  Any  of  you.  We  have  rules.  Now  goon  and  take  him  to  the  hospital.  It  might  be  serious.&quot;  &quot;Let's  take  him  to  the  hospital.&quot;  Chef  says  this  as  if  it's  something  he's  just  thought  of.  He  might  be  farther  gone  than  any  of  them.  For  one  thing,  he  can't  stand  still.  He  weaves.  And  he  keeps  picking  up  his  bare  feet  and  putting  them  down  again,  as  if  the  deck  were  burning  hot.  The  hair  on  his  chest  is  snow  white  under  the  over-  head  pool  lights.  &quot;I'll  getthecar.&quot;  That's  what  the  long-hair  says.  &quot;Connie,  let  me  have  the  keys.&quot;  &quot;I  can't  go  it,&quot;  Holits  says.  The  towel  has  moved  down  to  his  chin.  But  thecut  is  on  his  forehead.  &quot;Get  him  that  terry-cloth  robe.  He  can't  go  to  the  hospitalthat  way.&quot;  Linda  Cobb  says  that.  &quot;Holits!  Holits,  it's  us.&quot;  She  waits  and  then  she  takes  the  glass  of  whiskey  from  Holits's  fingers  and  drinks  from  it.  I  can  see  people  at  some  of  the  windows,  looking  down  on  the  com-  motion.  Lights  are  going  on  in  some  of  the  other  windows.  &quot;Go  to  bed!&quot;  someone  yells  from  an  upstairs  win-  dow.  Finally,  the  long-hair  brings  Con-  nie's  Datsun  from  behind  the  building  and  drives  it  up  close  to  the  pool.  The  headlights  are  on  bright.  He  races  the  engine.  &quot;For  Christ's  sake,  go  to  bed!&quot;  the  same  person  yells.  More  people  come  to  their  windows.  I  expect  to  see  Har-  ley  come  out  any  minute,  wearing  his  hat,  steaming.  Then  I  think,  No,  he'll  sleep  through  it.  Just  forget  Harley.  Chef  and  Connie  Nova  get  on  either  side  of  Holits.  Holits  can't  walk  straight.  He's  wobbly.  Part  of  it's  be-  cause  he's  drunk.  But  there's  no  ques-  tion  he's  hurt  himself.  They  get  him  into  the  car,  and  they  all  crowd  inside,  too.  Betty  is  the  last  to  get  in.  She  has  to  sit  on  somebody's  lap.  Then  they  drive  off.  Whoever  it  was  that  has  been  yelling  slams  the  window  shut.  I  dim  the  pool  lights  and  walk  back  to  the  apartment.  For  the  next  week,  Holits  doesn't  leave  the  place.  And  I  think  Betty  must  have  quit  her  job,  because  I  don't  see  her  pass  the  window  anymore.  One  morning  during  that  week,  as  the  boys  walk  by,  I  go  outside.  I  ask  them,  point-blank,  &quot;How's  your  dad?&quot;  &quot;He  hurt  his  head,&quot;  the  younger  one  says.  I  wait  in  hopes  they'll  volunteer  something  else.  But  they  don't.  They  shrug  and  goon  to  school  with  their  lunch  sacks  and  binders.  Later  I  was " b"sorry  I  hadn't  asked  after  their  step-  mom.  When  I  see  Holits  outside,  wearing  a  bandage  and  standing  on  his  bal-  cony,  he  doesn't  even  nod.  He  acts  like  I'm  a  stranger.  It's  as  if  he  doesn't  know  me  or  doesn't  want  to  know  me.  But  the  thing  is,  he  does  know  me.  Harley  says  he's  getting  the  same  treatment.  He  doesn't  like  it.  &quot;What's  with  him?&quot;  Harley  wants  to  know.  &quot;Damn  Swede.  What  happened  tohis  head?  Somebody  belt  him  or  what?&quot;  I  don't  tell  him  anything  when  he  says  that.  I  don't  go  into  it.  Then  that  Sunday  afternoon  I  see  one  of  theHolits  boys  carry  out  a  box  and  put  it  in  the  station  wagon.  He  goes  back  upstairs  to  their  apartment.  But  pretty  soon  he  comes  back  down  with  another  box,  and  he  puts  that  in  the  station  wagon.  It's  then  I  know  they're  making  ready  to  leave.  But  I  don't  say  what  I  know  to  Harley.  He'll  know  everything  soon  enough.  The  next  morning  Betty  sends  one  of  the  boys  down.  In  a  note  she  says  she's  sorry  but  they  have  to  move.  She  gives  me  her  sister's  address  in  South-  ern  [REDACTED],  where  she  says  we  can  send  their  deposit  money.  She  points  out  they're  leaving  eight  days  before  their  rent  is  up.  She  hopes  there  might  be  something  in  the  way  of  a  refund  there,  even  though  theyhaven't  given  the  required  thirty  days'  notice.  In  the  note  she  says,  &quot;Thanks  for  every-  thing.  Thanks  for  doing  my  hair  that  time.&quot;  She  signs  the  note,  &quot;Sincerely,  Betty  Holits.&quot;  &quot;What's  your  name?&quot;  I  ask  the  boy.  &quot;Billy.&quot;  &quot;Billy,  tell  her  I  said  I  was  sorry.&quot;  Harley  reads  what  she's  written  and  says  it  will  be  a  cold  day  in  Hell  before  they  see  any  money  back  from  Fulton  Terrace.  He  says  he  can't  understand  these  people.  &quot;People  who  sail  through  life  like  the  world  owes  them  a  liv-  ing.&quot;  He  asks  me  where  they're  going.  But  I  don't  have  any  idea  where  they're  going.  Maybe  they're  going  back  to  [REDACTED].  How  do  I  know  where  they're  going?  But  I  don't  think  they're  going  back  to  [REDACTED].  I  think  they're  going  someplace  else  to  try  their  luck.  Connie  Nova  and  Chef  have  their  chairs  in  the  usual  places,  one  on  ei-  ther  side  of  the  pool.  From  time  to  time,  they  look  over  at  the  Holits  boys  carrying  things  out  to  the  station  wagon.  Then  Holits  himself  comes  out  with  some  clothes  over  his  arm.  Connie  Nova  and  Chef  holler  and  wave  at  him.  At  first,  Holits  looks  at  them  like  he  doesn't  know  them,  ei-  ther.  And  maybe  he  doesn't.  But  then  he  raises  his  free  hand.  Just  raises  it,  that's  all.  They  wave.  Then  Holits  is  waving.  He  keeps  waving  at  them,  even  after  they've  stopped.  Betty  comes  downstairs  and  touches  his  arm.  She  doesn't  wave.  She  won't  even  look  at  the  people.  She  says  something  to  4]     -Norman  Dusic  Holits,  and  he  goes  on  to  the  car.  Connie  Nova  lies  back  in  her  chair  and  reaches  over  to  turn  up  the  radio.  Chef  holds  his  sunglasses  in  one  hand  and  watches  Holits  and  Betty  for  a  while  longer.  Then  he  fixes  the  glasses  over  his  ears.  He  settles  himself  in  the  lounge  chair  and  goes  back  to  tanning  his  leathery  old  self.  Finally,  they're  all  loaded  and  ready  to  move  on.  The  boys  are  in  the  back  seat,  Holits  behind  the  wheel,  Betty  in  the  seat  next  to  him.  It's  just  like  it  was  when  they  drove  in  here  for  the  first  time.  &quot;What  are  you  looking  at?&quot;  Harley  says.  He's  taking  a  break.  He's  in  his  chair,  watching  TV.  But  in  a  minute  he  turns  off  the  TV.  He  gets  up  and  comes  over  to  the  window.  &quot;Well,  there  they  go.  They  don't  know  where  " b"they're  going  or  what  they're  going  to  do.  Crazy  Swede.&quot;  I  watch  them  drive  out  of  the  lot  and  turn  onto  the  road  that  will  take  them  to  the  freeway.  Then  I  look  at  Harley  again.  He's  settling  into  his  chair.  He  has  his  can  of  pop,  and  he's  wearing  his  straw  hat.  He  acts  like  nothing  has  happened  or  ever  will  happen.  He  starts  the  TV.  &quot;Harley?&quot;  But,  of  course,  he  can't  hear  me.  I  go  over  and  stand  in  front  ofhis  chair.  He's  surprised.  He  doesn't  know  what  to  make  of  it.  He  leans  back  in  the  chair.  Just  sits  there  with  the  pop  inhis  hand,  looking  at  me.  The  phone  starts  ringing.  &quot;Get  that,  will  you?&quot;  he  says.  I  don't  answer  him.  Why  should  I?  &quot;Let  it  ring,  then,&quot;  he  says.  I  go  find  the  mop,  some  rags,  S.0.S.  pads,  and  a  bucket.  The  phone  stops  ringing.  He's  still  sitting  there  in  his  chair.  But  he's  turned  the  TV  off  now.  He's  just  sitting.  I  take  the  pass  key,  go  outside  and  up  the  stairs  to  17.  Ilet  myself  in  and  walk  through  the  living  room  to  their  kitchen-what  used  to  be  their  kitchen.  The  counters  have  been  wiped  down,  the  sink  and  cupboards  are  clean.  It's  not  so  bad.  I  leavethe  cleaning  things  on  the  stove  and  go  take  a  look  at  the  bathroom.  Nothing  there  a  little  steel  wool  won't  take  care  of.  Then  I  open  the  door  to  the  bedroom  that  overlooks  the  pool.  The  blindsare  raised,  and  the  bed  is  stripped.  But  the  floor  shines.  &quot;Thanks,&quot;  I  say  out  loud  to  Betty.  Wherever  she's  going,  I  wish  her  luck.  &quot;Good  luck,  Betty.&quot;  One  ofthe  bureau  drawers  is  open  and  I  move  to  close  it.  Back  in  a  corner  of  the  drawer  I  see  the  bridle  he  carried  in  that  day.  It  must  have  been  passed  over  in  their  hurry  to  pack.  But  maybe  it  wasn't.  Maybe  it  was  left  on  purpose.  &quot;Bridle,&quot;  I  say.  I  hold  it  up  to  the  window  and  look  at  it  in  the  light.  It's  not  fancy,  it's  just  an  old  dark  leather  bridle.  I  don't  knowmuch  about  bridles,  But  I  know  that  one  part  of  the  contraption  fits  into  the  mouth.  That  part's  called  the  bit.  It's  made  of  steel.  Reins  go  over  the  head  andup  to  where  they're  held  on  the  neck  be-  tween  the  fingers.  The  rider  pulls  the  reins  this  way  and  that,  and  the  horse  turns.  It's  simple.  The  bit's  heavy  and  cold  to  thetouch.  If  you  had  to  wear  this  thing  in  between  your  teeth,  you'd  catch  on  in  a  hurry.  When  you  felt  it  pull,  you'd  know  it  was  time  then.  You'd  know  you  were  going  somewhere."