 b" Betty  Pra  shker  ,  associate  publisher  and  v  ice-pres  id  ent  of  Doubleday,  has  been  nam  ed  vice-president  and  editor  -in-chief  o  f  Crown  Publishers.  P  rashker  ..  .  has  been  with  Doubled  ay  for  21  years...  She  replaces  Car  ole  Ba  ron,  who  left  Crown  last  Oct  ober  to  become  publisher  of  Dell  Publishing,  a  Doubleday  subsidiary.  'The  m  ove  comes  after  other  management  changes  in  the  past  six  months  at  Doubleday  and  Dell  in  ad  dition  to  B  aron's  appointment.  Linda  Grey,  who  had  been  ed  itor-in-chie  f  o  f  Dell  Books,  be  came  editorial  director  of  adult  fiction  and  nonfiction  at  Bantam  Book  s  ...  Ross  Claiborne,  vice-president  and  e  ditorial  director  of  Dell  for  13  years,  joined  War  ne  r  Books  a  s  vice-pre  s  ident  and  publisher  of  its  h  ardcover  division  .  .  .  Robin  Smith,  president  and  general  manager  of  Dell,  became  president  of  the  Publishers  Clearing  House  ...  And  James  R.  McLaughlin,  Doubleday's  group  vice-president  of  publishing,  was  given  the  additional  posi  tion  of  president  o  f  Dell.  -Publishers  Weekly.  cNair-RampEer  has  announced  M  the  appointment  of  Corley  Stainer,  formerly  chief  pro-  curement  adviser  for  Beach  Books,  as  inspector  general  of  its  mass-market  division.  Beach  Books  was  at  one  time  a  subsidiary  of  Terra  T  exts,  now  owned  by  the  Shirley  Story  family,recently  accountants  for  Blacktop  Books.  Mr.  Stainer,  at  one  time  editor-in-chief  of  the  Macadam  Conglomerate  (partially  underwritten  by  the  Dutch  publishing  association,  Esertvine),  pawed  his  way  to  the  top  as  assistant  receptionist  at  Basic  Novella,  a  firm  specializing  in  narrative  tragedies  for  children,  under  the  imprint  One  for  the  Birds.  Corley  Stiner,  who  engineered  the  Beach  Books  takeover  of  Medea  Mementos,  said  of  the  appointment  of  Mr.  Stainer,  &quot;It  couldn't  have  happened  at  a  better  time.  We  haven't  sold  a  book  in  years.&quot;  Mr.  Stiner  was  himself  re-  placed,  after  the  announcement,  by  Doria  Fenbeck,  former  director  of  the  Chapbook  Cartel  and  associate  carbon-  copier  for  Laissez-Faire  Paperbacks.  She  had  replaced  Ms.  Ula  Spiner,  top  typewritist  for  Latitude,  Inc.,  and  Longitude,  Ltd.,  the  Canadian  pulp  and  belles-lettres  firms,  by-products  of  Lumber  Along,  Winnebago.  (Ms.  Spiner  is  credited  with  having  typed  up  the  Dead  Sea  Scrolls  in  her  own  apartment.)  The  ex-chief  typist-designer,  Santafierre  Lamanta,  now  resides  in  a  small  phone  booth  in  [REDACTED],  which  has  recently  been  converted  into  a  co-op.  She  was  not  available  for  comment,  but  her  longtime  compan-  ion,  Sheila  Doublenight,  says  Mrs.  Lamanta  is  thinking,  and  not  for  the  first  time.  Ms.  Doublenight  has  been  involved  in  promotion  work  for  Lake  Tahoe,  and  was  the  1980  American  Book  Award  winner  in  placemats.  Mr.  Stiner,  a  recent  associate  of  Mr.  Stainer,  developed  the  highly  success-  ful  series  of  gothic  romances  under  the  Philo  colophon,  Goosepimples.  Mr.  Stainer  replaces  Sharon  Leahy,  who  has  moved  on  to  Better  Things  as  group  manager  and  messenger-leader  for  underground  mimeographs,  home  memos,  and  computer  printouts.  Ms.  Leahy,  the  originator  of  the  surprising  best-sellers  &quot;Make  Lint  Pay&quot;  and  &quot;'The  'Quest  for  Fire  Cookbook,&quot;  makes  her  home  in  a  public  monument  whose  location  she  refuses  to  divulge.  Interviewed  by  phone,  she  said,  &quot;I  love  my  new  job,  of  course,  but,  between  you  and  me,  I  suspect  there'll  be  an  opening  soon  at  McNair-  Raider.&quot;  In  her  spare  time,  Ms.  Leahy  runs  the  Thunder  School  for  Dogs,  in  Mount  Kisco,  [REDACTED].     "