 b"THOUGH  I  was  between  mar-  riages  for  several  years,  in  a  disarray  that  preoccupied  me  completely,  other  people  continued  to  live  and  die.  Len,  an  old  golf  partner,  overnight  in  the  hospital  for  what  they  said  was  a  routine  examination,  dropped  dead  in  the  lavatory,  having  just  placed  a  telephone  call  to  his  hard-  ware  store  saying  he  would  be  back  behind  the  counter  in  the  morning.  He  owned  the  store  and  could  take  sunny  afternoons  off  on  short  notice.  His  swing  was  too  quick,  and  he  kept  his  weight  back  on  his  right  foot,  and  the  ball  often  squirted  off  to  the  left  with-  out  getting  into  the  air  at  all,  but  he  sank  some  gorgeous  putts  in  his  day,  and  he  always  dressed  with  a  nat-  tiness  that  seemed  to  betoken  high  hopes  for  his  game.  In  buttercup-yel-  low  slacks,  sky-blue  turtleneck,  and  tangerine  cashmere  cardigan  he  would  wave  from  the  practice  green  as,  hav-  ing  driven  out  from  [REDACTED]  through  clouds  of  grief  and  sleeplessness  and  moral  confusion,  I  would  drag  my  cart  across  the  asphalt  parking  lot,  my  cleats  scraping,  like  a  monster's  claws,  at  every  step.  Though  Len  had  known  and  liked  Julia,  the  wife  I  had  left,  he  never  spoke  of  my  personal  condition  or  of  the  fact  that  I  drove  an  hour  out  from  [REDACTED]  to  meet  him  instead  of,  as  for-  merly,  ten  minutes  down  the  road.  Golf  in  that  interim  was  a  great  ha-  ven;  as  soon  as  I  stepped  off  the  first  tee  in  pursuit  of  my  drive,  I  felt  en-  closed  in  a  luminous  wide  bubble,  safe  from  women,  stricken  children,  sol-  emn  lawyers,  disapproving  old  ac-  quaintances-the  entire  offended  so-  cial  order.  Golf  had  its  own  order,  and  its  own  love,  as  the  three  or  four  of  us  staggered  and  shouted  our  way  toward  each  hole,  laughing  at  misfortune  and  applauding  the  rare  strokes  of  relative  brilliance.  Sometimes  the  summer  sky  would  darken  and  a  storm  arise,  and  we  would  cluster  in  an  abandoned  equipment  shed  or  beneath  a  tree  that  seemed  less  tall  than  its  brothers.  Our  natural  nervousness  and  our  impa-  tience  at  having  the  excitements  of  golf  interrupted  would  in  this  space  of  shelter  focus  into  an  almost  amorous  heat-the  breaths  and  sweats  of  mid-  dle-aged  men  packed  together  in  the  pattering  rain  like  cattle  in  a  boxcar.  Len's  face  bore  a  number  of  spots  of  actinic  keratosis;  he  was  going  to  have  them  surgically  removed  before  they  turned  into  skin  cancer.  Who  would  have  thought  the  lightning  bolt  ofa  coronary  would  fall  across  his  plans  and  clean  remove  him  from  my  tan-  gled  life?  Never  again  (no  twosnow-  flakes  or  fingerprints,  no  two  heart-  beats  traced  on  the  oscilloscope,  and  no  two  golf  swings  are  exactly  alike)  would  I  exultantly  see  his  so  hopeful-  ly  addressed  drive  (&quot;Hello  dere,  ball,&quot;  he  would  joke,  going  into  his  waggle  and  squat)  squirt  off  low  to  the  left  in  that  unique  way  of  his,  and  hear  him  exclaim  in  angry  frustration  (he  was  a  born-again  Baptist,  and  had  de-  veloped  a  personal  language  of  avoid-  ed  curses),  &quot;Ya  dirty  ricka-fric!&quot;  I  drove  out  to  Len's  funeral  and  tried  to  tell  his  son,  &quot;'Your  father  was  a  great  [REDACTED];  but  the  words  fell  flat  in  that  cold  bare  Baptist  church.  Len's  gaudy  colors,  his  Christian  ef-  fervescence,  his  game  and  futile  swing,  our  crowing  back  and  forth,  our  fellowship  within  the  artificial  uni-  verse  composed  of  variously  resistant  lengths  and  types  of  grass  were  tints  of  life  too  delicate  to  capture,  and  had  flown.  TIME  later,I  read  in  the  paper  that  Miss  Amy  Merrymount,  91,  had  at  last  passed  away,  as  a  dry  leaf  passes  into  leaf  mold.  She  had  always  seemed  ancient;  she  was  one  of  those  New  Englanders,  one  of  the  last,  who  spoke  of  Henry  James  as  if  he  had  just  left  the  room.  She  possessed  letters,  folded  and  unfolded  almost  into  pieces,  from  James  to  her  parents,  in  which  she  was  mentioned,  not  only  as  a  little  girl  but  as  a  young  lady  &quot;coming  into  her  'own,'  into  a  liveliness  fully  rounded.&quot;  She  lived  in  a  few  rooms,  crowded  with  antiques,  ofa  great  in-  herited  country  house  of  which  she  was  constrained  to  rent  out  the  larger  portion.  Why  she  had  never  married  was  a  mystery  that  sat  upon  her  lightly  in  old  age;  the  slender  smooth  beauty  that  sepia  photographs  remembered,  the  breeding  and  intelligence  and,  in  a  spiritual  sense,  ardor  she  still  possessed  must  have  intimidated  as  many  suitors  as  they  attracted  and  given  her,  in  her  own  eyes,  in  an  age  when  the  word  &quot;inviolate&quot;  still  had  force  and  renun-  ciation  a  certain  prestige,  a  value  whose  winged  moment  of  squandering  never  quite  arose.  Also,  she  had  a  sar-  donic  dryness  to  her  voice  and  some-  thing  restless  and  dismissive  in  her  manner.  She  was  a  keen  self-educator;  " b"she  kept  up  with  new  developments  in  art  and  science,  took  up  organic  foods  and  political  outrage  when  they  be-  came  fashionable,  and  liked  to  have  young  people  about  her.  When  Julia  and  I  moved  to  town  with  our  ba-  bies  and  fresh  faces,  we  became  part  of  her  tea  circle,  and  in  an  atmo-  sphere  of  tepid  but  mutual  enchant-  ment  maintained  acquaintance  for  twenty  years.  Perhaps  not  so  tepid:  now  I  think  Miss  Merrymount  loved  us,  or  at  least  loved  Julia,  who  always  took  on  a  courteous  brightness,  a  soft  daughterly  shine,  in  those  chill  window-lit  rooms  crowded  with  spindly,  feathery  heir-  looms  once  spread  through  the  four  floors  of  a  Back  Bay  town  house.  In  memory  the  glow  of  my  former  wife's  firm  chin  and  exposed  throat  and  shoulders  merges  with  the  ghostly  smoothness  of  those  old  framed  studio  photos  of  the  Merrymount  sisters  three,  of  whom  two  died  sadly  young,  as  if  bequeathing  their  allotment  of  years  to  the  third,  the  survivor  sitting  with  us  in  her  gold-brocaded  wing  chair.  Her  face  had  become  unfore-  seeably  brown  with  age,  and  totally  wrinkled,  like  an  Indian's,  with  some-  thing  in  her  dark  eyes  of  glittering  Indian  cruelty.  &quot;I  found  her  rather  disappointing,&quot;  she  might  say  of  an  absent  mutual  acquaintance,  or,  of  one  who  had  been  quite  dropped  from  her  circle,  &quot;She  wasn't  absolutely  first-  rate.&quot;  The  search  for  the  first-rate  had  been  a  pastime  of  her  generation.  I  cannot  think,  now,  of  whom  she  ut-  terly  approved,  except  Father  Daniel  Berrigan  and  Sir  Kenneth  Clark.  She  saw  them  both  on  television.  Her  eyes  with  their  opaque  glitter  were  failing,  and  for  her  cherished  afternoons  of  reading  while  the  light  died  outside  her  windows  and  a  little  fire  of  birch  logs  in  the  brass-skirted  fireplace  warmed  her  ankles  were  substituted  scheduled  hours  tuned  into  educa-  tional  radio  and  television.  In  those  last  years,  Julia  would  go  and  read  to  her-Austen,  &quot;Middlemarch,&quot;  Joan  Didion,  some  Proust  and  Mauriac  in  French,  when  Miss  Merrymount  de-  cided  that  Julia's  accent  passed  muster.  Julia  would  practice  a  little  on  me,  and,  watching  her  lips  push  forward  and  go  small  and  tense  around  the  French  sounds  like  the  lips  of  an  Afri-  can  mask  of  ivory,  I  almost  fell  in  love  with  her  again.  Affection  between  women  is  a  touching,  painful,  exciting  thing  for  a  man,  and  in  my  vision  of  it  -tea  yielding  to  sherry  in  those  clut-  tered  rooms  where  twilight  thickened  until  the  pages  being  slowlyturned  and  the  patient  melody  of  Julia's  voice  were  the  sole  signs  of  life-love  was  what  was  happening  between  this  gradually  dying  old  lady  and  my  wife,  who  had  gradually  become  middle-  aged,  our  children  grown  into  absent  adults,  her  voice  nowhere  else  harkened  to  as  it  was  here.  No  doubt  there  were  confidences,  too,  between  the  pages.  Julia  always  returned  from  Miss  Merrymount's,  to  make  my  late  dinner,  looking  younger  and  even  blithe,  somehow  emboldened.  In  that  awkward  post-marital  phase  when  old  friends  still  feel  obliged  to  extend  invitations  and  one  doesn't  yet  have  the  wit  or  courage  to  decline,  I  found  myself  at  a  large  gathering  at  which  Miss  Merrymount  was  present.  She  was  now  quite  blind  and  invari-  ably  accompanied  by  a  young  person,  a  round-faced  girl  hired  as  companion  and  guide.  The  fragile  old  lady,  dis-  played  like  peacock  feathers  under  a  glass  bell,  had  been  established  in  a  chair  in  a  corner  of  the  room  beyond  the  punch  bowl.  At  my  approach,  she  sensed  a  body  coming  near  and  held  outher  withered  hand,  but  when  she  heard  my  voice  her  hand  dropped.  &quot;You  have  done  a  dreadful  thing,&quot;  she  said,  all  on  one  long  intake  of  breath,  like  a  draft  rippling  a  piece  of  crinkly  cellophane.  Her  face  turned  away,  showing  her  hawk-nosed  pro-  file,  as  though  I  had  offended  her  sight.  The  face  of  her  young  compan-  ion,  round  as  a  radar  dish,  registered  slight  shock;  but  I  smiled,  in  truth  not  displeased.  There  is  a  relief  at  judg-  ment,  even  adverse.  It  is  good  to  know  that  somewhere  a  seismograph  records  our  quakes  and  slippages.  I  imagine  Miss  Merrymount's  death,  not  too  many  months  after  this,  as  a  final  se-  renely  flat  line  on  the  hospital  monitor  attached  to  her.  Something  sardonic  in  that  flat  line,  too-of  unviolated  recti-  tude,  of  magnificent  patience  with  a  world  that  for  over  ninety  years  failed  to  prove  itself  other  than  disap-  pointing.  By  this  time,  Julia  and  I  were  at  last  divorced.  VERYTHING  of  the  abandoned  home  is  lost,  of  course-the  paintings  on  the  walls,  the  way  shadows  and  light  contended  in  this  or  " b"that  corner,  the  gracious  warmth  from  the  radiators.  The  pets.  Canute  was  a  male  golden  retriever  we  had  acquired  as  a  puppy  when  the  children  were  still  a  tumbling,  pre-teen  pack.  Endlessly  amiable,  as  his  breed  tends  to  be,  he  suffered  all,  including  castration,  as  if  life  were  a  steady  hail  of  blessings.  Curiously,  not  long  before  he  died,  my  youngest  child,  who  sings  in  a  female  punk  group  that  has  just  started  up,  brought  Canute  to  the  house  where  now  I  live  with  Jenny  as  my  wife.  He  sniffed  around  politely  and  expressed  with  only  a  worried  angle  of  his  ears  the  wonder  of  his  old  master  reconsti-  tuted  in  this  strange-smelling  home;  then  he  collapsed  with  a  heavy  sigh  onto  the  kitchen  floor.  He  looked  fat  and  seemed  lethargic.  My  daughter,  whose  hair  is  cut  short  and  dyed  mauve  in  patches,  said  that  the  dogroamed  at  night  and  got  into  the  neighbors'  gar-  bage,  and  even  into  one  neighbor's  horse  feed.  This  sounded  like  misman-  agement  to  me;  Julia's  new  boyfriend  is  a  middle-aged  former  Dartmouth  quarterback,  a  golf  and  tennis  and  backpack  freak,  and  she  is  hardly  ever  home,  so  busy  is  she  keeping  up  with  him  and  trying  to  learn  new  games.  The  house  and  lawn  are  neglected;  the  children  drift  in  and  out  with  their  friends  and  once  in  a  while  clean  out  gh  &amp;  8  p  NSS  XC  the  rotten  food  in  the  refrigerator.  Jenny,  sensing  my  suppressed  emo-  tions,  said  something  tactful  and  bent  down  to  scratch  Canute  behind  one  ear.  Since  the  ear  was  infected  and  sensitive,  he  feebly  snapped  at  her,  then  thumped  the  kitchen  floor  with  his  tail  in  apology.  Like  me  when  snubbed  by  Miss  Merrymount,  my  wife  seemed  more  pleased  than  not,  encountering  a  touch  of  resistance,  her  position  in  the  world  as  it  were  confirmed.  She  discussed  dog  antibiotics  with  my  daughter,  and  at  a  glance  one  could  not  have  been  sure  who  was  the  older,  though  it  was  clear  who  had  the  odder  hair.  It  is  true,  as  the  clich\xc3\xa9  runs,  that  Jenny  is  young  enough  to  be  my  daughter.  But  now  that  I  am  fifty  everybody  under  thirty-  five  is  young  enough  to  be  my  daugh-  ter.  Most  of  the  people  in  the  world  are  young  enough  to  be  my  daugh-  ter.  A  few  days  after  his  visit,  Canute  disappeared,  and  a  few  days  later  he  was  found  far  out  on  the  marshes  near  my  old  house,  his  body  bloated.  The  dog  officer's  diagnosis  was  a  heart  at-  tack.  Can  that  happen,  I  wondered,  to  four-footed  creatures?  The  thunder-  bolt  had  hit  my  former  pet  by  moon-  light,  his  heart  full  of  marshy  joy  and  his  stomach  fat  with  garbage,  and  he had  lain  for  days  with  ruffling  fur  while  the  tides  went  in  and  out.  The  image  makes  me  happy,  like  the  sight  of  a  sail  popping  full  of  wind  and  tugging  its  boat  swiftly  out  from  shore.  In  truth-how  terrible  to  ac-  knowledge-all  three  of  these  deaths  make  me  happy,  in  a  way.  Witnesses  to  my  disgrace  are  being  removed.  The  world  is  growing  lighter.  Even-  tually  there  will  be  none  to  remember  me  as  I  was  in  those  embarrassing,  disarrayed  years  while  I  scuttled  with-  out  a  shell,  between  houses  and  wives,  a  snake  between  skins,  a  monster  of  selfishness,  my  grotesque  needs  naked  and  pink,  my  social  presence  beggarly  and  vulnerable.  The  deaths  of  others  carry  us  off  bit  by  bit,  until  there  will  be  nothing  left;  and  this  too  will  be,  in  a  way,  a  mercy.  "