 b"AFTER  taking  a  two-mile  walk  across  fields  halfway  up  the  headland-to  break  himself  in,  as  he  put  it-on  the  first  day  of  his  holiday,  Frazier  got  back  to  the  hotel.  He  had  a  bath  to  getthe  last  of  Lon-  don  off  his  skin,  and  then,  avoiding  the  bar,  already  crowded  with  golf  players,  he  went  out  onto  the  terrace  to  be  alone.  He  had  been  coming  to  this  hotel  for  three  or  four  years  in  the  spring-a  man  who  liked  to  stay  in  a  place  full  of  middle-aged  people,  many  of  them  so  well  known  to  one  another  that  it  was  simple  for  him  to  avoid  them  and  to  be  alone.  Off  he  went  to  walk  all  day;  off  they  went  to  the  golf  course  or  to  drive  about  in  their  cars.  If  he  was  slightly  known,  it  was  by  his  surname.  &quot;Frazier,  withan  '(,  &quot;  he  would  say,  with  a  piercing  pedantic  stare  and  giving  a  roll  to  his  stone-  blue  eyes  as  he  said  it,  like  a  tall  schoolmaster  mocking  a  boy.  He  was  in  fact  a  hairdresser,  who  came  to  this  lonely  part  of  the  Atlantic  coast  to  slough  off  his  given  name  of  Lionel,  by  which  he  was  called  at  the  rather  expensive  Salon  de  Coiffure  in  Lon-  don,  where  he  was  eagerly  sought  af-  ter.  (&quot;You  know,&quot;  ladies  said,  &quot;how  difficult  it  is  to  get  an  appointment  with  Lionel.&quot;)  He  was  a  tallish,  slen-  der  man-not  one  of  your  sunken-  chested  barbers,  gesticulating  with  comb  and  scissors  as  he  skated  about  you,  grown  cynical  with  the  flatteries  of  the  trade.  On  the  contrary,  despite  his  doll's  head  of  gray  hair  and  the  mesh  of  nervous  lines  on  his  long  face,  he  was  as  still  and  as  dispassionate  as  a  soldier.  At  this  moment,  on  the  terrace,  he  was  examining  the  distant  clouds  over  the  sea,  half  a  mile  beyond  the  garden,  and  the  few  villas  below  the  hotel,  watching  the  purple,  the  black,  the  dyed  pink,  and  the  golden  as  they  restyled  themselves  in  one  of  those  spectacular  sunsets  common  on  this  coast.  He  broke  off  to  stretch  out  a  hand  and  to  glance  at  the  palm  and  the  widely  stretched  fingers,  indispensable  to  him  inhistrade.  And  then  he  looked  at  the  sky  again,  until  the  sound  of  the  door  opening  onto  the  terrace  made  him  turn.  A  middle-aged  woman  and  a  young  man  were  stand-  ing  there.  He  saw  her  snatch  the  young  man's  arm  to  reprimand  him  in  a  threatening  way  and  then  push  the  arm  away.  They  moved  to  a  table  at  the  end  of  the  terrace.  Frazier,  who  preferred  to  be  alone,  saw  this  was  the  moment  to  go  back  inside,  but  the  woman  looked  up  as  he  got  to  the  door.  &quot;Lionel!&quot;  she  called.  Then  she  rushed  at  him.  &quot;What  on  earth  are  you  doing  here?  How  extraordinary  to  find  you  at  this  hotel.&quot;  &quot;Mrs.-&quot;  Frazier  stood  still,  and  his  eyes  went  wide  with  horror.  &quot;Mrs.  Morris!  I  don't  believe  it.  How  did  you  find  this  place?:  When  did  you  arrive?&quot;  He  pulled  himself  together,  and  all  the  fine  lines  on  his  face  switched  to  politeness.  &quot;What  an  un-  expected  pleasure.&quot;  With  excitement  she  said,  &quot;This  is    my  son.  He's  come  over  from  Can-  ada.&quot;  And  to  her  son  she  called,  &quot;Tom,  I  wrote  to  you  about  Lionel.  I've  told  you  how  he  saved  my  life  when  Alec  was  taken  ill.&quot;  The  son  was  a  tall,  bulky  young  man,  who  gave  Frazier  the  worldly  look  of  a  son  not  surprised  by  his  mother's  habit  of  staring  at  men  any-  where  and,  the  next  moment,  going  straight  up  to  them  and  saying,  &quot;We  have  met  before.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  believe  it,  Lionel,&quot;  she  said  again.  And,  almost  archly,  &quot;What  a  thrill!&quot;  It  would  have  been  bad  enough,  Lionel  thought,  if  Mrs.  Morris  had  been  one  of  his  customers.  It  was  worse  that  she  was  a  neighbor  from  the  flat  below  his  own  in  [REDACTED]  whom  (he  thought)  he  had  at  last  shaken  off.  Staying  here!  A  woman  who  talked  and  talked,  never  finished  herthoughts.  A  floundering,  over-  flowing,  helpless  widow,  with  adra-  matic  face  that  shot  out  of  her  thick  black  hair,  which  swung  like  an  old  curtain  over  her  neck  and  cheeks.  Frazier  did  what  he  could  to  hide  the  shock  of  seeing  her.  He  was  certain  she  knew  what  he  felt,  for  her  expres-  sion  changed.  She  now  gazed  at  him  humbly,  guiltily,  as  a  woman  given  to  excess  in  friendship  and  who  often  saw  the  talent  unwanted.  &quot;As  a  matter  of  fact,&quot;  she  said  proudly,  &quot;Tom  and  I  are  not  staying  here  at  the  hotel.  It's  too  expensive.  We  have  taken  a  flat  in  one  of  the  villas  down  the  road.  We  just  dine  here.  I  used  to  live  in  these  parts,  years  and  years  ago.  When  you  were  a  boy,  Tom.  I  have  a  lot  of  old  friends  here.&quot;  And  thenshe  laughed  away  the  shock  she  had  seen  on  Frazier's  face  and  said  to  her  son,  &quot;I  know  what  Lionel  is  going  to  do-tramp  and  tramp!  I  don't  know  how  you  do  it,  Lionel.  I  can't  face  hills  anymore.  Do  you  know,  Tom,  he  walks  across  the  park  twice  a  day  to  work  and  back-  when  he's  working  on  his  feet  all  day!  I  see  you  going  out  every  morning  from  my  window,  Lionel.&quot;  &quot;Oh,&quot;  said  Frazier,  ashamed  now,  for  he  liked  her  laugh.  &quot;I'm  sure  we'll  meet.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;We're  just  going  in  to  dinner.&quot;  She  turned  to  her  son.  &quot;Early  start  tomorrow,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;We're  driving  to  Lands  End.&quot;  To  escape,  Lionel  said  he  was  going  down  the  road  to  see  what  the  tide  was  doing.  &quot;I  always  like  to  check  on  the  " b"tide,&quot;  he  said  as  he  opened  the  door  for  them,  and  then  left  as  they  went  into  the  din-  ing  room.  Disaster!  She  had  friends  here?  Not  likely.  She  was  on  the  warpath,  her  non-stop  tongue  chasing  him!  Not  stay-  ing,  but  dining  every  night.  Oh,  God!  His  walk  down  to  the  sea  was  ruined.  Had  he  let  the  name  of  the  hotel  slip  out  in  one  of  those  chats  with  her  in  Lon-  don'  At  the  Salon,  he  often  chatted  in  a  gos-  sipy  way  of  trips,  hotels,  countries,  prices,  as  he  stood  behind  his  cus-  tomers,  feelingthe  heat  of  their  scalps  and  see-  ing  their  torpid  or  fret-  ful  faces  in  the  mirror.  Women  came  to  him  to  be  changed,  to  be  per-  fected.  They  arrived  tousled  and  complaining  and  they  left  transfig-  ured,  equipped  for  the  hunt  again.  They  were  simply  topknots  to  him.  When  they  got  up  he  was  always  surprised  to  see  that  they  had  arms  and  legs  and  could  walk.  Sometimes,  though  not  often,  he  admired  the  opposite  end  of  them:  their  shoes.  But  Mrs.  Morris  was  not  a  cus-  tomer.  She  was  merely  a  neighbor.  For  him  she  was  virtually  headless-a  body,  a  part  of  the  building  and  of  or-  dinary  life.  It  had  been  two  years  since  her  husband  had  died,  but  Lionel  still  thought  of  her  not  as  a  person  but  simply  as  part  of  &quot;the  couple  down-  stairs'&quot;'-the  Summerses,  who  had  lived  for  at  least  ten  years  in  the  flat  below  and  who  had  only  one  head  between  them,  her  husband's,  hers  be-  ing  disposable  from  Lionel's  profes-  sional  point  of  view.  When  he  went  up  in  the  lift  with  them,  her  elderly  hus-  band  had  looked  brutally  placid  and  she  as  squashed  as  a  cushion.  What  did  one  know  about  one's  neighbors  in  a  city?  Nothing-until  that  Saturday  af-  ternoon  when  his  doorbell  rang  and  rang  and  rang,  and  a  woman  was  calling,  &quot;Mr.  Frazier!  Mr.  Frazier!&quot;  The  porter  and  others  called  him  &quot;Frazer&quot;  -she  had  had  at  any  rate  the merit,  he  remembered,  of  &quot;giving  him  the  %..&quot;  He  was  marinating  some  breastof  chicken,  wearing  an  apron  of  dark-blue  and  white  stripes  inhis  per-  fect  kitchen,  when  he  heard  the  bell.  He  dried  his  hands,  took  the  apron  off,  and  went  to  the  door.  There  she  was,  with  her  winter  coat  open  and  her  keys  dangling  from  her  hand.  &quot;Mr.  Frazier!  Please,  can  you  help  me?  I  can't  geta  sound  out  of  the  porter.  My  husband's  fallen  out  of  bed.  He's  on  the  floor.  He's  had  a  stroke  or  a  fit-I  can't  get  him  up  from  the  floor.  I've  rung  the  doctor.  Would  you  please  help  me?  I  am  sorry.  ...&quot;  Nothing  cushiony  about  her  now.  She  had  a  tearing  grip  as  hard  as  a  child's  on  his  coat,  and  her  nails  pinched  through  to  his  arm.  Her  black  hair,  which  usually  swung  over  her  cheeks,  was  now  pushed  back  from  a  high,  naked  forehead  that  startled  him  by  revealing  the  curl  of  a  white  scar  on  it.  &quot;Of  course,  Mrs.  Summers,&quot;  he  said.  She  dragged  him  to  the  lift,  buthe  pulled  her  away,  saying  the  stairs  would  be  quicker.  He  skipped  down  fast.  She  followed,  more  slowly,  be-  cause  her  eyesight  was  not  as  good  as  his,  calling  out,  &quot;He's  been  ill  for  a  fortnight.  He's  such  a  weight.  I  found  him  when  I  came  back.  I  went  out  to  buy  some  fish,  because  of  his  stomach.  There  was  nothing  in  the  fridge.&quot;  The  door  of  the  flat  was  open.  He  went  into  a  thick  smell,  of  spice,  and  of  upholstery  that,  for  Lionel,  might  have  been  hot  vegetables;  the  place  seemed  heavywith  the  closed  air  of  married  life.  He  saw  the  opendoor  of  the  bedroom-what  terrible  curtains!  -and  there  was  Mr.  Summers  lying  on  his  back  on  the  floor,  half  the  bed-  clothes  dragged  withhim,  and  blood  on  the  sheet,  a  dribble  of  wet  in  one  nostril,  and  a  pale  belly  with  white  hairs  curling  on  it,  half  out  of  his  pajamas.  The  face  was  dark  violet  " b"with  a  green  streak  in  it,  and  there  was  a  look  of  disdain  about  the  mouth.  Mrs.  Summers  was  on  her  sharp  knees  beside  him  at  once,  holding  her  hus-  band  by  the  feet.  &quot;Not  his  ankles!&quot;  said  Lionel,  He  was  taking  the  man's  pulse.  &quot;Put  a  pillow  under  his  head.  Pull  those  sheets  away,&quot;  he  said  calmly.  He  got  his  hands  under  the  man's  shoulders  from  behind  and  heaved  him  to  a  near-  sitting  position.  &quot;Sit  up,  soldier,&quot;  said  Lionel.  &quot;Hup-hup!&quot;  The  man  opened  his  eyes  feebly.  &quot;I'll  hold  him  here,&quot;  Lionel  said.  &quot;You  get  him  under  the  knees.  Now,  slowly.&quot;  They  raised  the  body  and  then  let  it  slide  to  the  floor  again.  Mrs.  Summers  stooped  to  pull  up  her  husband's  paja-  mas.  &quot;It's  the  weight,&quot;  she  said  again.  &quot;Change  round,&quot;  said  Lionel.  \xc2\xab&quot;We'll  get  him  nearer  the  bed.&quot;  In  the  end,  somehow  or  other,  they  manhandled  the  hot  body  and  rolled  it  onto  the  bed,  Frazier  falling  on  top  of  him.  *'We've  got  him  the  like  a  deceptive  Spanish  dancing  skirt  that  shimmers  and  almost  seems  too  short,  but  when  twirled  flares  out  and  fills  your  sight.  wrong  way  up,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Now,  gen-  tly,  your  end.&quot;  The  man,  awake  now,  grunted,  &quot;Bloody  Red  Cross.&quot;  He  closed  his  eyes  and  his  breathing  roared.  &quot;He  was  in  the  Army,&quot;  gasped  Mrs.  Summers,  apologizing.  &quot;Were  you  in  the  Army?&quot;  &quot;Ambulance  driver,&quot;  Frazier  said.  &quot;He's  been  climbing  the  wall  all  the  weeks,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It's  those  pills.  I  found  him  when  I  got  back.&quot;  They  sat,  getting  their  breaths  back.  Frazier  looked  around  the  room.  The  Summerses  were  a  heavy  couple,  with  heavy  furniture.  The  head  of  the  wide  bed  was  padded,  and  crossed  by  two  awful  loops  of  pink  satin.  The  padded  part  was  greased  by  the  marks  left  by  two  heads.  Frazier  had  thought  of  her  as  a  cushiony  woman,  but  when  their  hands  or  arms  had  touched  in  the  struggle  he  was  shocked  to  feel  the  bones  through  the  soft  flesh  at  once.  Those  bones  must  be  made  of  iron.  He  saw  her  roughly  pull  her  hair  back  over  her  forehead,  and  now  he  knew  why  he  had  always  paid  so  little  atten-  tion  to  her.  The  hair  was  dull  black,  slow-growing  stuff,  hanging  in  loose  ridges.  It  seemed  to  have  been  set  in  some  out-of-date  perm,  in  a  style  she  must  have  settled  on,  once  and  for  all,  years  ago.  Her  strong  nose  and  fore-  head  now  stuck  out  boldly,  as  if  they  had  been  staging  another  willful  life  behind  the  swinging  curtain  of  hair.  The  face  reminded  Lionel  of  an  actor  he  used  to  see  in  his  father's  under-  ground  barbershop  when  he  was  a  boy.  The  actor's  eyes  had  been  large  and  brown  and  lamplike,  as  hers  were.  " b"The  doctor  came  at  last.  &quot;You  would  have  done  better  to  have  put  a  blanket  over  him  and  left  him  on  the  floor,&quot;  he  said,  and  he  called  an  ambulance.  Down  by  the  sea,  where  heavy  weeds  were  hanging  from  the  rocks,  scraps  of  this  scene  came  to  Frazier's  mind  now  as  he  stood  for  the  moment  watching  the  tide  quietly  come  in,  making  a  sound  of  sen-  tences  without  words.  Poor  Mr.  Summers  had  died  in  hospital.  A  crowd  of  friends  arrived  to  console  her  after  the  funeral.  She  came  up  to  thank  him,  and  admired  his  flat  and  the  plants  on  the  balcony.  There  was  a  look  of  hunger  on  her  face  as  she  looked  backon  it  when  she  left.  Then,  after  a  few  weeks,  she  was  at  his  door,  asking  him,  with  apologies,  to  witness  her  signature  on  some  document.  She  was  wearing  ared  suit  as  bright  as  a  ge-  ranium-an  improvement.  He  picked  up  the  document  and  saw  she  had  signed  &quot;Pamela  Morris.&quot;  It  turned  out  she  was  two  persons-indeed,  three  (and  perhaps  four,  when  he  thought  of  his  father's  actor).  She  was  openmouthed,  eager  to  explain.  The  woman  he  had  known  as  Mrs.  Summers  had  divorced  a  man  called  Morris,  who  had  once  hit  her  over  the  head  with  a  bottle.  Mr.  Summers  had  been  her  solicitor  andhad  rescued  her.  She  had  met  him  in  a  hotel  in  Vichy  when  she  had  gone  to  stay  with  her  father,  who  lived  there  as  a  tax  exile.  Her  tale  began  to  ramble  about  Eu-  rope.  At  every  pause,  her  mouth  re-  mained  half  open  to  mark  the  change  to  the  next  chapter,  going  back  at  last  to  Mr.  Morris,  a  man  often  on  a  yacht  or  in  a  race  while  she  looked  after  baby  Tom  in  a  house  near  The  Lizard-  &quot;you  know  The  Lizard?&quot;  Which  race  and  where  was  not  clear  to  Frazier,  but  she  was  calling  him  Lionel  now.  The  bright-red  suit  turned  out  to  have  been  given  to  her  by  one  of  her  rich  women  friends.  The  shoes,  too.  There  was  a  moment  in  this  talk  when  she   became  almost  a  customer,  in  his  eyes.  No  grief,  no  reality.  She  dealt  and  shuffled,  dealt  and  reshuffled  her  life  away  again,  like  someone  playing  cards.  The  enormous  distinction  of  Mr.  Summers  and,  indeed,  of  herself  was  that  they  had  seen  no  point  in  marrying.  She  paused  as  he  got  her  a  second  glass  of  whiskey,  and  then  said,  \xc2\xab&quot;What  a  lovely  piece  of  cut  glass.  You  have  such  lovely  things.&quot;  And  at  this  she  was  back  to  that  awful  afternoon,  when  he  had  been  so  kind,  kind,  kind,  as  if  all  the  women  in  her  were  now  talking  in  turn.  She  became  secretive.  She  repeated  that  she  had  left  Mr.  Summers  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  as  she  had  told  the  doctor.  But  not,  it  came  out  now,  to  get  fish.  Summers  had  been  asleep  andhad  suddenly  woken  up  and  asked  her  to  fetch  his  wallet  from  his  jacket,  hanging  over  a  chair.  He  pulled  out  a  slip  ofpaper.  It  was  a  betting  slip.  He  had  backed  the  winner  in  the  afternoon's  race  at  Newbury;  he  told  her,  ordered  her,  to  go  down  to  the  betting  shop  to  collect  his  winnings.  Pamela  Morris  knew  nothing  about  horse  racing.  The  only  quarrels  she  and  Summers  had-well,  not  the  only  ones-were  about  his  bet-  ting.  She  knew  he  had  not  been  out  of  the  flat  for  ten  days,  but  when  she  said  this  he  boiled  up  in  a  temper  and  started  getting  out  of  bed.  She  was  so  frightened  by  his  illness  that  she  lost  her  head.  Perhaps  he  Ahad  got  out,  somehow.  Men  did  get  out.  &quot;I  didn't  look  at  the  slip,&quot;  she  said  now.  &quot;I  put  on  my  coat-you  saw  me  in  my  coat  when  I  came  up  to  your  flat?-and  went  to  the  shop,  and  when  I  gave  the  slip  in  the  man  pushed  it  back  at  me.  It  wastwo  years  old!&quot;  There  wasawe  in  her  face  as  she  stopped  for  breath.  It  turned  into  a  sudden  laugh,  hissing  with  delight  along  her  teeth.  &quot;The  wrong  slip?&quot;  said  Lionel,  who  was  a  literal  rather  than  a  laugh-  ing  man,  and  looked  at  the  stretched  fingers  of  his  hand.  Then  he  under-  stood:  her  laugh  showed  a  pride  in  the  irresistible  folly  of  Mr.  Summers.  Lionel  saw  the  first  tear  in  her  great  still  eyes.  And,  even  more  proudly,  she  said,  &quot;I  didn't  want  to  make  a  fool  of  him  in  front  of  the  doctor.  Alec,  you  know,  was  a  solicitor.&quot;  As  he  listened,  Lionel  became  even  more  aware  that  Mrs.  Morris  was  a  " b"body.  His  clientele  were  no  more  than  heads  that  he  gardened  as  he  gardened  the  plants  on  his  balcony.  He  under-  stood  that  their  physical  struggle  with  Summers  had  created  an  unwanted  bond.  Headless  she  might  be,  from  his  professional  point  of  view,  but  she  was  alive,  because  she  was  deep  in  thebe-  lief  in  the  plural  quality  of  her  person.  Since  she  admired  his  flat,  and,  goodness  knows,  he  admired  it  himself  -never  thought  of  anything  else  once  he  got  home  in  the  evenings-he  showed  her  round  it,.  It  was  not  a  stew  of  upholstery,  a  goulash  of  furniture,  as  hers  was.  Every  object  had  been  picked  up,  collected  with  great  care,  andhadhad  to  show  itself  worthy.  Nothing,  absolutely  nothing,  had  come  out  of  a  boutique;  nothing  here  was  poudr\xc3\xa9,  jokey,  or  licentiously  odd.  He  showed  herthe  perfect  kitchen,  installed  by  himself,  and  every  glit-  tering  utensil.  &quot;Alec  would  have  loved  this,&quot;  she  said,  conveying  that  it  terrified  her.  &quot;He  always  did  the  cooking,  never  let  me  near  the  stove.  Never  cleaned  it,  either.  If  he  had  a  fault,  he  had  a  cook's  temper.&quot;  And  she  went  on,  speaking  in  questions  in  her  way  of  begging  for  an  answer.&quot;I  suppose  that  was  why  he  was  so  jealous  of  my  husband  and  hated  my  poor  Tom!  Wouldn't  have  the  poor  boy  in  the  flat?&quot;  That,  no  doubt,  was  the  measure  of  her  love  for  the  man:  he  was  an  unan-  swerable  egotist.  They  went  byturn  into  the  two  other  rooms,  the  first  of  which  he  said  he  was  going  to  redecorate.  &quot;Lionel,&quot;  she  saidas  she  looked  in  and  went  out,  &quot;I  wish  you'd  decorate  my  flat.  Tell  me  what  to  do.&quot;  Her  words  came  back  to  him  after-  ward,  but  here  he  bent  down  and  picked  up  a  piece  of  lint  from  the  carpet  in  the  hall  and  then  simply  gazed  politely  at  her  without  replying.  He  was  vain  of  living  alone.  He  shopped,  cooked,  cleaned,  and  pol-  ished.  His  cupboards  were  models  of  order.  His  glass  was  polished.  His  china  gleamed,  The  jars  and  packets  inhis  refrigerator  were  labelled.  If  anything  broke  or  went  wrong,  he  himself  repaired  it.  He  took  her  out  to  his  balcony,  where  his  plants  thrived.  He  showed  her  the  glazed  cabinet  fixed  tohis  wall,  electrically  heated,  where  he  grew  his  seedlings.  Decorate?  Ad-  vise?  Certainly  not.  She  was  clearly  incompetent.  After  the  death  of  Sum-  mers  the  smell  of  saucepans  burned  out  on  the  stove  in  her  flat  used  to  come  up  tohis  kitchen.  Out  of  kindness  on  that  early  visit,  he  gave  her  a  small  plant  in  a  pot  for  her  balcony.  That  was  a  mistake.  In  a  couple  of  weeks  she  came  up  with  the  dying  plant.  Overwatered.  She  sat  with  him  for  an  hour,  After  this  she  started  telephoning  him,  about  things  that  had  gone  wrong  in  her  flat,  and  then,  when  he  evaded  her,  she  started  slip-  ping  notes  under  his  door.  Once  a  week  he  did  not  mind  seeing  her,     hearing  about  Summers'  will,  orher  son  Tom,  but  twice  in  a  week  was  too  much.  She  sat  on  his  sofa,  often  in  that  red  coat  and  skirt  which  did  not  go  at  all  with  his  room,  talking  away  about  everyday  life.  &quot;I  love  sitting  here  looking  at  ev-  erything,&quot;  she  said  once,  sighing  naively.  &quot;'You  are  so  cozy.&quot;  &quot;Cozy&quot;  was  not  a  word  he  liked.  He  was  a  busy,  practical  man,  not  given  to  idle  speculations.  &quot;You  ought  to  have  been  a  decora-  tor,&quot;  she  went  on,  back  on  her  theme.  He  said  as  dryly  as  possible,  struck,  however,  by  the  thought,  &quot;I  suppose  I  am.&quot;  He  was  thinking  of  his  work  at  the  Salon.  &quot;Of  course!  That  is  what  you  are!&quot;  And  she  laughed.&quot;I  was  never  taught  to  do  anything.&quot;  As  usual,  her  words  suggested  that  her  life  was  a  string  of  accidents  for  which  she  had  been  avid  and  that  when  these  were  disastrous  they  left  an  aftermath  of  glee.  The  only  subject  that  did  not  end  in  a  laugh  was  her  son,  by  Mr.  Morris.  She  had  &quot;put&quot;  the  boy  firmly  into  a  New  [REDACTED]  bank  and  he  had  left  that  for  a  job  in  Can-  ada.  She  was  proud  he  had  done  that,  because  her  ex-husband,  Mr.  Morris,  with  his  usual  perversity,  had  tried  to  stop  him.  Lionel  said  that  boys  change  their  minds  and  that  he  himself  had  once  wanted  to  go  on  the  stage.  He  was  a  listener,  and  was  unpre-  " b"   pared  when  this  admission  made  her  stop  talking  about  herself.  &quot;Why  didn't  you?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;'There  was  a  boy  at  school  called  [REDACTED].  His  father  was  a  barber,  like  mine.  He  used  to  act  in  the  school  play.  He  would  put  the  heads  of  girls  on  picturesof  Vikings  in  the  history  books-the  girls  in  the  class.&quot;  &quot;And  did  he  goon  the  stage?&quot;  &quot;He  was  older  than  me.  Killed  in  the  war,&quot;  said  Lionel.  &quot;Oh!&quot;  said  Mrs.  Morris,  eager  to  mourn.  &quot;So  you  became  a  hair-  dresser?&quot;  Surprised  by  the  intimacy  of  this  and  not  wishing  to  talk  about  [REDACTED]  (who  had  come  to  life  in  his  mind),  Lionel  said,  &quot;No,  nothing  to  do  with  [REDACTED].  I  suppose  it  was  because  I  used  to  watch  my  mother  doing  her  hair  when  I  was  a  boy.  Brushing  it,  with  all  those  hairpins  in  her  mouth,  putting  up  a  pieceof  hair  on  top  of  her  head  and  holding  it  there.  It  used  to  fall  down,  and  I  had  to  hold  it  for  her,  because  it  often  fell  down  when  she  picked  up  another  long  piece  from  the  other  side.  Then  she  would  start  winding  it  round.  It  always  came  out  all  right  in  the  end,  like  a  conjuring  trick.  She  wouldn't  let  Father  touch  it  with  his  scissors,  when  short  hair  came  in.  She  kepthers  long  until  she  died.&quot;  &quot;I  know,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Morris.&quot;I  used  to  see  her  when  Alec  and  I  moved  into  the  flat  and  she  was  living  with  you.&quot;  &quot;That  was  when  Father  died,&quot;  he  said.  'You  used  to  take  her  to  the  thea-  tre,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Morris  fondly.  &quot;You  go  to  the  theatre  a  lot,  don't  you?&quot;  Lionel  was  alarmed.  He  wished  he  had  not  revealed  anything  about  him-  self.  The  next  thing,  she  would  be  getting  round  him  to  take  her  to  the  theatre.  That  same  evening,  she  did  some-  thing  very  tiresome  as  he  stooped  slightly  to  open  the  door  to  let  her  out  of  the  flat.  &quot;Poor  [REDACTED],&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You  were  so  good  to  your  mother.  Not  every  son  is.&quot;  And  suddenly  she  kissed  him  on  top  of  the  head,  rather  greedily,  and,  having  ruffled  his  hair,  started  to  put  it  right.  That  was  too  much.  She  was  ordi-  nary  life,  and  ordinary  life  always  went  too  far.  After  this  he  made  a  point  of  putting  her  off  when  she  tele-  phoned  or  slipped  another  note  under  his  door.  He  was  going  out,  he  said.  Or  he  was  washing  paint,  getting  the  spare  room  ready  for  his  sister.  Also,  twice  after  Mrs.  Morris  left  he  had  to  get  a  cloth  and  wipe  a  stain  of  spilled  whiskey  from  the  seat  of  the  velvet  sofa  she  had  been  sitting  on,  and  then  -as  he  said  to  one  of  his  customers  at  the  Salon-he  had  to  hunt  for  days  all  over  [REDACTED]  for  something  that  really  got  stains  off  velvet  and  in  the  end  he  had  to  getthe  sofa  reupholstered.  The  expense!  The  visits  stopped.  If  by  chance  he  travelled  up  with  her  in  the  lift  he  felt  that  too  much  life   was  going  up  with  him;  to  judge  by  her  plaintive  expression,  it  was  life  abashed  by  its  longing  for  company.  HE  got  back  to  the  hotel.  She  and  her  son  were  dining  ina  distant  corner  of  the  crowded  room.  A  long  time  passedbefore  he  saw  them  leave,  and  they  showedno  sign  of  seeing  him.  He  went  up  tohis  room.  It  will  be  intolerable,  he  thought  to  himself.  Why  didn't  I  ask  how  long  they  were  staying?  I  must  get  out.  He  lay  on  his  bed  looking  at  a  guidebook  for  new  places.  The  danger  of  the  next  morning  was  that  he  might  meet  them  near  the  villas  on  the  road.  Any  one  of  them  might  be  the  one  where  she  and  her  son  were  staying.  But  once  he  was  on  the  beach  below  andhad  climbed  to  the  cliff,  he  knew  he  was  safefor  the  day;  with  his  feet  on  the  close  turf,  his  mind  scattered  her  while  his  restless  eyes  collected  all  the  details  of  the  long  stretch  of  sea,  with  the  sky  like  an-  other  country  hanging  over  it.  No  hu-  man  voices-only  the  screams  of  gulls  and  the  hum  of  the  wind.  Below  him,  the  sea  came  pouring,  black  as  whales,  into  the  deep  gullies  between  the  rocks  and  was  sucked  out  like  suds  and  then  hurled  in  again.  These  walks  were  personal  victories  for  Lionel  after  the  months  of  piddle-paddling  (as  he  said)  round  all  those  ladies  in  the  [REDACTED]  Salon.  Occasionally  he  saw  other  walking  men  or  women  on  some  higher  or  lower  ground,  keeping  their  " b" distance,  as  he  kept  his;  if  they  chanced  to  walk  close  by,  they  passed  like  solitary  clouds,  unmarred  by  a  muddling  word.  People  really  were  like  clouds  in  the  sky,  born  out  of  the  horizon  and,  as  the  hours  went  by,  slowly  joining  the  rising  gray  popula-  tions  and  processions  that  drifted  away  across  the  blue  sky  and  the  changing  sunlight.  Every  year  he  felt  reborn  here.  The  sky  was  always  young  and  ageless,  the  rocky  land  got  older  every  day.  Clip-clip-clipping  in  the  Salon,  Lionel  also  aged  with  every  day,  but  here  every  hour  made  him  younger  as  he  aged.  When  he  got  back  to  the  hotel  at  the  end  of  the  afternoon,  he  was  sur-  prised  to  notice  that  Mrs.  Morris  and  her  son  were  not  in  the  dining  room.  What  a  fuss  about  nothing!  And  so  it  went  on.  Wet  or  fine,  he  was  out,  on  top  of  this  promontory  or  that,  going  farther  every  day,  as  if  daring  the  Morrises.  Four  days  passed.  Not  a  sign  of  them.  Had  hebeen  rude?  What  were  they  doing?  Was  she,  in  her  slapdash  way,  being  almost  pomp-  ously  discreet?  He  didn't  want  to  chat,  but  he  would  have  liked  to  tell  her  and  her  son  about  some  of  his  discoveries.  For  example,  terror.  His  life  had  been  without  it;  hers  must  have  had  its precipitant  moments,  poor  sentimental  soul.  The  paths  he  followed  from  one  cliff  edge  to  the  next  would  suddenly  zigzag  and  turn  inland  and  then  sea-  ward  again,  round  appalling  ravines  whose  black  orlichened  walls  dropped  sheer  to  inaccessible  spits  of  sand  be-  low.  Gulls  and  crows  were  so  often  at  their  savage  wars  there.  Sometimes  there  were  bloody  feathers  torn  from  dead  bodies  on  the  grass.  There  was  one  particular  place,  close  to  an  estu-  ary,  where  the  land  was  in  a  state  of  debacle:  huge  blocks  of  rocks,  the  size  of  houses  or  fallen  castles,  had  been  torn  off  the  cliffs  and  were  stranded  there  in  a  chaos  of  spouting  water.  Closer  to  the  shore  was  a  brutal  coag-  ulation  of  stranded  rock  that  had  as-  tonished  him  when  he  saw  it  on  his  first  holiday  here-a  year  when  he  had  had  a  row  with  one  of  the  stylists  at  the  Salon.  The  rock  looked  like  the  body  of  a  truncated  man,  with  arms  chopped  short,  a  huge  chest,  and  a  head  tilted  back  so  that  one  saw  only  the  underside  ofa  chin-a  giant  in  a  barber's  chair,  tipped  back  and  ready  for  a  shave.  He  would  have  liked  to  tell  Mrs.  Morris  about  rocks.  She  would  stretch  her  eyes  and  give  one  of  her  amazed  laughs,  as  she  always  did  at  grotesque  things  made  half  true.     JULY  5,  1982  That  tale  of  her  husband  hitting  her  on  the  head  with  abottle  and  leaving  the  scar  had  been  told  like  a  wonder.  Had  ker  chin  tipped  back  like  that?  There  was  one  more  terror,  for  the  collector  of  terrors,  which  Lionel  called  the  Black  Wall.  It  was  a  ravine,  which  he  often  studied  from  one  side  and  then  the  other.  It  dropped  sheer  to  a  spit  of  sand  left  by  the  tide,  where  there  was  a  narrow  isolated  rectangle  of  flat  rock,  like  the  hull  of  a  lost  ship  or  perhaps  a  table  where  fifty  people  could  sit  down  to  eat.  On  this  particu-  lar  outing  he  noticed  for  the  first  time  that  there  were  boulders  just  below  the  top  of  the  wall  and  from  below  them  there  was  a  thin,  irregular  scratched  line  going  steeply  down,  vanishing  be-  hind  lower  boulders  and  then  begin-  ning  again.  The  scratch  must  once  havebeen  a  path  used  by  fishermen.  He  stepped  down  a  yard  or  two,  daring  himself  to  go  down,  then,  frightened,  crawled  back.  &quot;Better  not,&quot;  he  said,  looking  at  his  hands.  They  were  his  living.  He  could  not  afford  to  break  his  fingers  or  his  wrists  on  a  giddy  climb  like  that.  Anyway,  he  had  his  eye  on  a  coming  black  cloud  that  was  dragging  rain  across  the  sea,  and  he  had  no  sooner  turned  back  toward  home  than  a  squall  did  blow  up,  whipping  him  and  soaking  him  before  he  was  halfway  back  to  the  hotel.  He  broke  his  rule  and  went  intothe  bar  for  a  large  whiskey.  This  was  on  the  sixth  evening.  &quot;Hullo,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Morris's  son.  He  was  sitting  on  a  stool  at  the  bar  with  a  young  girl  wearing  jeans,  his  hand  on  her  knee.  She  was  simply  pretty,  with  her  fair  hair  knotted  up  in  a  careless  way.  &quot;This  is  Sal,&quot;  said  the  son.  &quot;Mr.  Frazier.&quot;  &quot;You  live  in  Fal-  mouth?&quot;  said  the  girl.  &quot;Get  clued  up,&quot;  said  the  worldly  young  man.  &quot;Mr.  Frazier  is  a  friend  of  Ma's  in  [REDACTED].  That's  someone  else.  I  told  you.&quot;  &quot;Sorry,&quot;  said  the  girl.  &quot;Oh,  I  know!  We  saw  you  this  afternoon,  out  on  the  cliff.&quot;  &quot;Coming  up  from  the  " b"Coffin,&quot;  the  young  man  said.  &quot;How  far  did  you  get?  Ma  dropped  us  on  the  road  and  we  came  across  the  fields-it's  only  a  mile.  She's  gone  to  have  her  hair  done  and  we  had  to  bloody  well  walk  back.  We  got  soaked.  Did  you?  Did  you  get  to  the  bottom!  It's  called  the  Coffin,  you  know.  I  took  Sal  to  look  at  it.&quot;  ''I  didn't  see  you,&quot;&quot;  said  Lionel.  Watched!  &quot;Ma  used  to  take  us  on  picnics  down  the  path  there  when  I  was  a  kid.  Very  shel-  tered  down  there.  We  used  to  have  a  house  back  on  the  road.&quot;  And  to  the  girl  he  said,  &quot;In  Dad's  time-  I  told  you.  Before  they  split  up.&quot;  A  young  know-all,  thought  Lionel.  Carries  on  as  if  he  owned  the  cliffs  and  all  that  sea.  &quot;Your  mother  took  you  down  that  wall!&quot;he  saidto  the  boy.  &quot;It's  impossible.&quot;  &quot;A  bit  dizzy,  but  it  used  to  be  all  right.  I  know  what  you  mean-you  can'tget  down  now;  the  rock's  fallen.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Will  you  have  a  drink?&quot;  Lionel  said.  &quot;I  think  I'd  better  not.  Sal's  soaked  through  and  I've  got  to  drop  her.  Ma  will  be  back.  But  thanks.&quot;  Lionel  watched  them  go.  &quot;A  friend  in  [REDACTED]&quot;?  ...  &quot;Someone  else&quot;?  What  didthe  knowing  boy  mean?  And  where  on  earth  could  she  get  her  hair  done  in  this  part  of  the  world?  Not  thatthat  would  bother  her!  Well,  thought  Lionel,  that  lets  me  off  the  hook.  I  suppose  I've  been  rather  rude  to  the  old  bird.  He  found  himself  wishing  to  see  the  fat  woman  who  had  got  down  the  Black  Wall  when  she  was  young.  He  went  in  to  dinner.  There  were  two  or  three  large,  laughing  parties  of  old  friends  in  the  middle  of  the  crowded  dining  room  and  murmuring  gray-haired  couples  at  other  tables.  Corks  were  popping.  Between  courses,  slow  in  being  served  because  he  was  alone,  Lionel  tried  to  see  if  she  and  her   nerves  son  and  the  girl  had  slipped  in  and  were  at  the  table  at  the  other  end  of  the  room.  They  were  not.  In  the  morning,  the  wind  was  steadier,  the  rain  quieter,  but  the  sky  was  dirty  and  the  sea  looked  like  un-  washed  linen.  The  seagulls  perched  on  aerials  and  chimneys,  their  indignant  heads  into  the  wind.  That  was  the  trouble  on  this  coast.  Fogs  or  rain  would  set  in  for  days.  The  guests  in  the  hotel  turned  their  backs  to  the  windows  and  sat  hiding  themselves  be-  hind  newspapers;  the  heartier  ones  went  boisterously  out  to  their  cars.  One  or  two  little  groups  sat  about  talking  about  their  relations  in  the  towns  they  came  from,  in  the  tones  of  people  sitting  out  after  a  funeral.  Ev-  ery  now  and  then,  a  golfer  would  come  back  from  the  main  door  dispir-  ited.  On  this  day,  Lionel  sat  in  the  coffee  room,  which  was  usually  empty  in  the  morning.  An  expert  in  choosing  chairs,  he  had  marked  one  down  for  himself  on  his  first  day.  He  kept  an  eye  on  the  puddles  on  the  terrace  and  saw  at  last  that  the  rain  was  stopping.  Then  he  heard  a  voice  saying  to  one  of  the  waiters,  &quot;I  wonder  if  I  could  have  some  coffee.&quot;  Mrs.  Morris  was  standing  there,  carrying  a  raincoat  and  wearing  a  white  scarf  round  her  head,  She  came  at  once  to  sit  with  him.  She  had  walked  up,  she  said,  because  something  had  gone  wrong  with  the  power  at  her  flat.  &quot;Would  you  like  me  to  drop  down  and  look  at  it?&quot;  he  said  at  once,  to  make  amends.  He  had  once  or  twice  put  something  right  in  the  stove  she  maltreated  at  her  [REDACTED]  flat.  &quot;No,  it's  the  landlord's  job  to  see  to  it,&quot;  she  said.  And  then,  flirtatious,  ly  wagging  a  finger  at  him,  &quot;No  'walkies'  today?&quot;  She  did  not  take  her  scarf  off,  and  although  her  face  looked  bare  it  was  shapely.  &quot;We  went  to  Falmouth  yes-  terday,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;The  trees  in  the  harbor  are  much  better  there  than  here.  Taller,  more  sheltered.&quot;  Then,  relaxing,  &quot;Tom  said  he  saw  you  yes-  terday  at  the  Coffin.  Mr.  Morris,  my  husband,  had  a  house  a  couple  of  miles  away  once.&quot;  She  laughed.  &quot;Tom  wanted  to  show  his  girl  the  place  where  he  was  brought  up.  Especially  the  Coffin.&quot;  That  word  seemed  to  exciteher.  &quot;I  dropped  them  there,&quot;  she  went  on.  &quot;It's  a  mistake  to  go  back  to  the  past.  I  mean  at  my  age.  Our  age.  Don't  you  think?&quot;  Yet  she  said  this  with  the  pride  of  one  who  had  always  " b"chosen  the  mistake  when  she  was  young,  and  even  now  she  had  the  warm,  wide-open  eyes  of  a  woman  hoping  for  another.  &quot;Tom  has  got  a  very  pretty  girl,&quot;  Lionel  said.  &quot;Oh,  I'm  so  relieved  he's  got  a  girl  at  last-I  can't  tell  you!  I'd  begun  to  think-&quot;  She  stopped.  &quot;He  just  wasn't  interested.  I  mean,  he's  twenty-nine.  Not  afraid  of  them,  always  about  with  them,  but  ...  indifferent.  I  was  afraid  it  was  my  fault.&quot;  &quot;They  seemed  full  of  themselves,&quot;  Lionel  said.  &quot;He's  very  good  at  his  job,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  was  afraid  that  the  divorce  had  upset  him.  Alec  hated  him.  I  told  you.  It  was  so  difficult.  The  funny  thing  is'&quot;-and  it  was  clear  she  thought  that  this,  being  funny,  was  a  revelation-&quot;Tom  liked  Alec!  Liked  him  better  than  his  own  father.  Tom  was  really  sad  when  Alec  died.&quot;  &quot;He  was  sad  for  you,&quot;  Lionel  said,  remembering  that  he  himself  had  dis-  liked  Mr.  Summers.  The  man  had  looked  like  the  soapy  bust  of  someone  who  had  never  existed.  Perhaps  there  was  something  sexy  in  the  blind,  bland  conceit  of  busts?  Frazier  waited.  As  usual,  acting  on  a  logic  of  her  own,  she  was  off  on  a  new  tack.  &quot;You  see,  Lionel,&quot;  she  suddenly  said,  &quot;my  mother  died  when  I  was  a  girl,  a  child.  Not  died,  exactly,  but  was  'put  away.'  Weak  in  the  head,  you  know.  I  didn't  really  know  her.  I'll  never  forget  what  you  told  me  about  your  own  mother,  doing  her  hair.  When  I  grew  up,  my  father  used  to  take  me  abroad  with  him  on  business.  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED].  He  had  a  lot  of  business  friends.  He  was  in  tim-  ber.&quot;  &quot;Lonely  for  a  girl,&quot;  he  said.  \xc2\xabMost  people  thought  I  was  having  a  wonderful  time,  but  you  are  right,  Lionel.  I  wes  alone  half  the  time,  sitting  in  hotel  rooms,  reading  novels.  The  novels  I  read!  Eating.  Talking  to  waiters.  I  used  to  think  of  my  mother.  Mr.  Morris  was  much  older  than  I-  in  timber,  too,  a  friend  of  Father's.  After  him-1I  mean,  after  the  divorce  -I  was  afraid  of  Tom's  feeling  for  me.&quot;  She  looked  at  him  greedily,  intently.  Lionel  saw  she  was  working  up  to  asking  him  why  he  hadn't  married.  &quot;Do  you  think  a  mother  can  be  too  frank?&quot;  she  said.  Lionel  was  lost.  He  wondered  if  she could  mean  she  had  been  chased  all  round  Europe  by  her  father's  friends.  He  could  see  that  she  might  have  been  a  pretty  girl,  dangerous  in  her  naivet\xc3\xa9,  piling  up  daydreams,  or  perhaps  not  innocent  at  all.  &quot;Was  it  really  because  of  your  mother  you  took  up  doing  women's  hair?&quot;&quot;  she  said,  leaning  forward,  avid  for  a  secret.  &quot;No,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Men's  hairdressing  was  going  downhill.  More  money  in  the  women's  trade.&quot;  He  was  about  to  tell  her  about  the  rock  that  looked  like  a  man  tipped  back  waiting  for  a  shave.  (Her  habit  of  rambling  from  the  point  was  infectious.)  But  she  was  too  quick.  &quot;Ah!&quot;  she  said,  with  all  her  breath.  \xc2\xab&quot;Money!  That's  it,  isn't  it'  You  had  to  look  after  your  mother.  I  mean,  you  had  her  to  live  with  you.  I  remember  when  Alec  and  I  moved  into  the  flat.  We  used  to  see  you  both  going  out     Promy  together.&quot;  Then,  looking  around  the  room  to  see  if  anyone  had  come  in  and  could  hear,  she  saidin  a  low  voice,  &quot;Alec  did  something  wrong,  against  the  law-something  solicitors  are  not  allowed  to  do.  I  never  found  out  what  it  was.  He  nearly  went  to  prison.  They  wouldn't  let  him  continue  hispractice.  I  mean,  when  he  died  he  hardly  left  me  anything.  Well,thank  goodness  the  flat  belongs  to  me.  I'm  so  grateful  to  Tom.  He  came  over  tosort  things  out.  He  thinks  I  should  sell  it.  It's  worth  double  what  I  gave  for  it,  he  says.  What  d'you  think,  Lionel?&quot;  What  an  extraordinary  thing-  Mrs.  Morris  no  longer  there!  New  people.  Builders,  painters,  hammering.  How  awful!  She  glowed  in  the  surprise  she  had  given  him.  &quot;I  wouldn't  do  itif  I  were  you,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;That's  really  what  you'd  have  to  pay  elsewhere,  and  you'd  be  worse  off.  Look  at  the  cost  of  removals  in  [REDACTED]!  Everyone  forgetsthat.&quot;  In  fact,  not  liking  change  himself,  he  wanted  to  stop  her.  " b"&quot;I  don't  want  to  be  a  burden  on  Tom.  He  wants  me  to  go  to  [REDACTED]  with  him.  I  suppose  I  could,  but  he's  very  serious  about  this  girl.  He's  fallen  flat  for  her  these  last  weeks.  Down  here!  He  met  her  with  an  old  friend  we've  been  seeing  here.  I  wish  I  had  talked  to  you  about  this  before,  Lionel.  I'm  afraid  I've  been  very  standoffish.  You  must  have  thought  I  was  avoid-  ing  you,  but  it  wasn't  that.  We've  been  out  all  the  time.  I've  known  this  friend  most  of  my  life,  when  his  wife  was  alive.  I  told  him  about  you  and  Alec.  But  I  don't  know  whether  I'd  like  to  go  back  and  live  in  the  country  again.  Plants  die  when  they  see  me!&quot;  Her  eyes  were  brilliant  when  she  laughed  now.  &quot;And  in  [REDACTED]  he'd  miss  his  gar-  den,&quot;  she  added,  looking  around  the  room  again.  &quot;It's  stuffy  in  here,  isn't  it?&quot;  And  she  began  fidgeting  with  the  knot  on  her  scarf.  &quot;He  wants  to  marry  me,  but  I  don't  know,&quot;  she  went  on,  whether  offended  by  her  scarf  or  this  &quot;friend&quot;  Lionel  could  not  tell.  &quot;He's  coming  over  to  dinner  tomorrow  night.  I  would  love  you  to  meet  him.  You  always  know  what  to  do!&quot;  And  then  she  tugged  off  her  scarf.  He  had  been  looking  only  at  a  face,  but  now  as  she  shook  back  her  hair  he  saw  that  half  of  what  he  had  called  the  old  rope  had  gone.  The  hair  had  been  chopped  into  short  curl-like  lengths,  her  forehead  was  clear,  her  eyebrows  had  come  to  life.  'You've  changed  your  hair,&quot;  he  said.  He  nearly  said,  &quot;You  have  come  out  into  the  open.&quot;  Then  the  stylist  said,  &quot;But  it's  marvellous-so  young.  One  can  see  the  ears  and  the  neck.  The  forehead  is  rounded.&quot;  He  moved  both  his  hands,  as  if  modelling  the  roundness  himself.  Not  severe?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Or  golli-  woggy?  As  though  I'd  fallen  through  a  hedge?&quot;  &quot;It  brings  out  the  eyes,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It's  perfect.  Slimming,  too.&quot;  &quot;You  are  a  darling,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  am  so  frightened.  It  shows  the  gray.&quot;  It  was  perhaps  a  touch  golliwoggy;  he  was  silent  about  that.  But  he  said  a  slight  salting  of  gray  gave  a  &quot;pi-  quancy,  a  dignity&quot;  to  a  head.  &quot;Now  you  have  a  heed&quot;  he  ex-  claimed,  that  being  for  him  indispens-  able  in  a  woman.  &quot;I  am  jealous.&quot;  &quot;Ah?&quot;  she  said  curiously.  &quot;I'm  jealous  of  the  man  who  did  it.  Where  did  you  get  it  done?&quot;  &quot;Tom's  girlfriend  found  him  for  me,&quot;  she  said,  disappointed.  &quot;Do  you  really  think  the  forehead's  all  right?&quot;  He  knew  she  was  thinking  of  the  scar.  &quot;Perfect,&quot;  he  said.  And,  in  fact,  the  scardid  not  show.  &quot;It  was  rather  an  awful  place  re-  ally,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Do  you  know,  a  dog  got  in  from  the  street  and  started  eat-  ing  the  hairthat  had  fallen  on  the  floor?  The  poor  thing  might  have  choked  to  death.&quot;  She  gazed.  An  omen?  she  seemed  to  ask.  &quot;The  time!&quot;  she  said,  getting  up.  &quot;I  must  get  back.  Look  there,  out  of  the  window-there's  a  pair  of  wagtails  jumping  at  the  flies.  They  never  fly  straight.  Thank  you,  thank  you,  Lio-  nel,&quot;  she  said,  with  a  prudish  glance  around  the  room.  &quot;Between  ourselves,  Lionel!  I  mean,  you  won't  say  any-  thing  to  anyone  here-I  mean,  about  what  I've  told  you?&quot;  He  nodded  as  they  walked  through  the  foyer  of  the  hotel  to  the  door,  where  she  refused  to  put  her  scarf  on.  &quot;I  miss  you,&quot;  she  said,  and  after  a  step  or  two  she  looked  back  at  him  with  a  pout  of  mock  despair  that  seemed  to  implicate  him  in  her  contin-  uing  fate. "