 b"WHEN  youhappen  to  step  off  \xc2\xa7;\xc2\xa7/  an  edge  you  didn't  see  and  lurch  forward  into  space  way-  ing  your  arms,  it's  the  end  of  the  world  for  a  second  or  two,  and  after  you  do  land,  even  if  you  know  you're  O.K.  and  no  bones  are  broken  it  may  take  a  few  seconds  to  decide  whether  this  is  funny  or  not.  Your  body  is  still  worked  up  about  the  fall-especially  the  nervous  system  and  the  adrenaline-  producing  areas.  In  fact,  I  am  still  a  little  shaky  from  a  spill  that  occurred  two  hours  ago,  when  I  put  on  a  jacket,  walked  out  the  front  door  of  this  house  here  in  St.  Paul,  [REDACTED],  and  for  no  reason  whatever  took  a  plunge  down  five  steps  and  landed  on  the  sidewalk  flat  on  my  back  with  my  legs  in  the  air.  I  am  thirty-nine  years  old  and  in  fairly  good  shape,  not  prone  to  blackouts  or  sudden  dizziness,  and  so  a  sudden  inexplicable  fall  comes  as  abig  surprise  to  me.  A  woman  who  was  jogging  down  the  street-a  short,  muscular  young  woman  in  a  gray  sweatshirt  and  sweatpants-stopped  and  asked  if  I  was  O.K.  &quot;Yeah!  Fine!&quot;  I  said  and  got  right  up.  &quot;I  just  fell,  I  guess,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Thanks,&quot;  I  said.  She  smiled  and  trotted  away.  Her  smile  has  followed  me  into  the  house,  and  I  see  it  now  as  a  smirk,  which  is  what  it  was.  She  was  too  polite  to  bend  over  and  hoot  and  shriek  and  guffaw  and  cackle  and  cough  and  whoop  and  wheeze  and  slap  her  thighs  and  stomp  on  the  ground,  but  it  was  all  there  in  the  smile:  a  young  woman  who  through  rigorous  physical  training  and  feminist  thinking  has  gradually  been  taking  charge  of  her  own  life  and  ridding  her  attic  of  self-hatred  and  doubt  and  fear  and  mind-  less  competitiveness  and  other  artifacts  of  male-  dominated  culture  is  re-  warded  with  the  sight  of  a  middle-aged  man  in  a  brown  suit  with  a  striped  tie  falling  down  some  stepsas  if  someone  had  kicked  him  in  the  pants.  I'm  sorry  if  I  don't  consider  this  humorous.  I  would  like  to.  I  wish  she  had  come  over  and  helped  me  up  and  then  perhaps  sat  on  the  steps  with  me  while  I  calmed  down.  We  might  have  got  to  talking  about  the  fall  and  how  each  of  us  viewed  it  from  a  different  perspective:  that  she  perceived  it  as  symbolic  political  theatre,  whereas  I  saw  it  as  something  that  was  actually  happening  to  me  at  the  time.  She  might  have  admitted  that  when  she  saw  me  emergefrom  the  house  she  immediately  thought,  He  earns  sixty  thousand  a  year,  his  secretary  earns  twelve  thousand,  and  once  a  year  he  takes  herout  to  lunch  and  tells  her  how  much  he  sympathizes  with  the  women's  movement  and  what  a  liber-  ating  influence  it  has  had  on  him  per-  sonally.  I  might  have  understood  that  thesight  of  a  tall  man  in  a  suit  folding  upand  waving  his  arms  and  falling  helplessly  and  landing  flat  on  his  back  was  the  punch  line  of  a  joke  she  had  been  carrying  around  with  her  for  a  long  time.  I  might  have  seen  it  her  way,  but  she  ran  down  the  street,  and  now  I  can only  see  my  side  of  the  fall.  I  feel  old  and  achy  and  ridiculous  and  cheapened  by  the  whole  experience.  I  understand  now  why  my  son  was  so  angry  with  me  a  few  months  ago  when  he  tripped  on  a  shoelace  and  fell  in  the  neighbor's  yard-a  yard  where  the  neighbor's  sheepdog  had  lived  for  years-and  I  cackled  at  him.  &quot;It's  not  funny!&quot;  he  yelled.  &quot;Oh,  don't  be  so  sensitive,&quot;  Isaid.  Don't  be  so  sensitive!  What  a  dumb  thing  tosay!  Who  has  the  right  to  tell  someone  else  how  to  feel?  It  is  theright  of  the  person  who  falls  on  the  dog  droppings  to  decide  for  him-  self  or  herself  how  he  or  she  will  feel.  It's  not  up  to  a  jury.  The  fallen  per-  son  determines  whether  it's  funny  or  not.  Y  son  and  I  are  both  tall  fellows,  and  I  suppose  tall  people  are  the  funniest  to  see  fall,  because  we  try  so  hard  not  to.  We  work  hard  for  our  dignity,  trying  to  keep  that  beanpole  straight,  keep  those  daddy  longlegs  co-  ordinated,  keep  those  big  boats  from  tangling  with  each  other.  From  a  chair  through  a  crowded  room  to  the  buffet  dinner  and  back  to  the  chair  with  a  loaded  plate  is  a  long  route  fora  tall  fellow  -a  route  we  have  to  study  fortricky  corners  and  edges,  low  doorways,  light  fix-  tures,  rug  wrinkles,  and  other  low-lying  obsta-  cles  that  we,  being  tall,  don't  see  at  a  glance.  A  tall  fellow  has  got  his  hands  full  on  a  ma-  neuver  like  that.  He  is  pulling  strings  attached  to  all  his  joints,  knowing  that  if  he  lets  himself  go  or  makes  a  mistake,  it's  a  long  way  down.  Short,  compact  per-  sons  can  trip  and  recover  their  balance  quickly,  maybe  even  turn  that  stumble  into  a  casual  Twyla  Tharp-type  dance  move  or  a  Buster  Keaton  fall,  but  when  tall  fellows  stumble  they  go  down  like  cut  tim-  ber.  We're  not  like  Wal-  ter  Payton,  of  the  Chi-  cago  Bears,  who  bounc-  es  right  up  from  the  turf  " b"when  he's  tackled.  We're  more  like  the  tall  trees  in  the  Na-  tional  Basketball  As-  sociation.  When  they  fall,  usually  there's  ligament  damage  or  torn  cartilage;  the  stretcher  crew  runs  onto  the  floor,  and  the  crowd  applauds  sym-  pathetically  as  thede-  bris  is  stacked  and  carried  away.  &quot;The  knee  feels  good,&quot;  the  tree  says  six  months  later,.  &quot;I  am  lifting  weights  with  it,  and  I  am  now  almost  able  to  bend  over,&quot;but  he  knows  that  his  pro  tree  career  is  done  gone,  that  he  has  begun  a  new  career  as  a  guy  who  hurts  a  lot.  All  that  can  hap-  pen  in  one  quick  fall,  and  soa  tall  fellow  is  cautious  when  he  threads  his  way  through  the  party  to  reload  his  plate  with  spareribs.  One  misstep  and  down  he  goes,  to  the  vast  amusement  of  all  present,  who  don't  realize  that  he  has  wrenched  something  inhis  back  and  will  be  in  a  body  cast  for  months  and  not  be  so  good  a  friend  again.  Only  a  tall  fellow  knows  how  major  his  fall  might  be.  FIVE  years  ago,  I  got  on  abus  with  five  musicians  and  rode  around  for  two  weeks  doing  shows  every  night.  They  played  music;  I  told  jokes  and  sang  a  song.  One  night,  in  the  cafete-  ria  of  ajunior  college  in  southern  [REDACTED],  we  happened  to  draw  a  big  crowd,  and  the  stage-four  big  ply-  wood  sheets  on  three-foot  steel  legs-  was  moved  back  twenty  feet  to  make  room  for  more  chairs.  The  show  was  late  starting,  the  room  was  stuffy,  the  crowd  was  impatient,  and  when  finally  the  lights  dimmed  and  the  spotlight  shone  on  the  plywood,  I  broke  from  the  backdoor  and  made  a  run  for  the  stage,  thinking  to  make  a  dramatic  entrance  and  give  these  fine  people  the  show  they  were  waiting  for.  What  I  could  not  seein  the  dark  was  the  ceiling  and  a  low  concrete  overhang  that  the  stage  had  been  moved  partly  under,  and  then  the  spot-  light  caught  me  straight  in  theeyes  and  I  couldn't  see  anything.  I  leaped   up  onto  the  stage,  and  in  mid-leap  my  head  hit  concrete  and  my  right  leg  caught  the  plywood  at  mid-shin.  I  toppled  forward,  stuck  out  my  hands,  and  landed  on  my  hands  and  knees.  The  crowd  drew  a  long  breath.  I  got  right  up-I  had  been  doing  shows  long  enough  to  know  not  to  lie  on-  stage  and  cry  in  front  of  a  paying  audience-and,  seeing  the  microphone  about  ten  feet  ahead,  strode  up  to  it  and  held  out  my  arms  and  said,  &quot;Hello,  everybody!  I'm  happy  to  be  here!&quot;  Then  they  laughed-a  big  thunder-  storm  of  a  laugh  and  a  big  round  of  applause  for  what  they  now  saw  had  been  a  wonderful  trick.  But  it  wasn't  funny!  My  neck  hurt!  I  hurt  all  over!  On  the  other  hand,  tosee  a  tall  man  in  a  white  suit  jump  directly  into  a  ceil-  ing  and  then  fall  down-how  often  doesa  person  get  tosee  that?  Men  dive  off  high  towers  through  fiery  hoops  into  tiny  tanks,  men  rev  up  motor-  cycles  and  leap  long  rows  of  trucks  and  buses,  but  I  am  the  only  man  in  show  business  who  takes  a  good  run  and  jumps  Straight  Up  Into  Solid  Concrete  Using  Only  His  Bare  Head.  Amazing!  Let's  see  that  once  more  in  slow  motion:  Me  in  the  hallway  saying,  &quot;Now!?&quot;  Stage  manager  saying,  &quot;Not  yet,  not  yet,&quot;  then,  &quot;O.K.,  zow.&quot;  He  opens  door,  I  take  two  steps,  see  bright  cir-  cle  of  light  on  stage,  take  five  long  running  strides.  In  mid-run,  the  circle  moves,  man  is  blinded  by  the  light,  looks  for  edge  of  stage,  then  leaps-  pushing  off  with  left  foot,  right  leg  extended.  Head  hits  concrete,  stopping  upward  motion.  Forward  momentum  carries  body  onto  stage  but  right  leg  fails  to  clear  plywood.  Body  falls,  lands  on  hands  and  knees,  stands  up-  like  a  dropped  puppet  picked  up  by  puppeteer-walks  forward,  speaks.  Laughter  &amp;  applause.  Looking  atthis  footage  one  more  time,  you  can  see  how  hard  this  poor  guy  hit.  The  head  jerks,  the  eyes  squeeze  shut,  the  hands  fly  up  like  birds,  the  body  shudders.  Look  now  as  the  tall  fellow  who  has  had  a  load  of  bricks  dropped  on  his  head  starts  singing.  It's  a  song  he  has  sung  for  years  and  knows  by  heart,  so  it  doesn't  matter  that  he  is  senseless;  these  lyrics  are  stored  not  in  his  head  but  at  the  lower  end  of  the  spinal  cord.  &quot;Hello,  hello,  it's  time  for  the  show!  We're  all  dressed  up  and  rarin'  to  go!&quot;  But  his  eyes  are  glazed,  and  it's  clear  that  something  is  terribly  wrong.  Stop  the  show!  This  man  is  hurt!  Is  there  a  doctor  in  the  house?  This  fellow  may  have  broken  his  neck!  Friends,  this  entertainer  who  always  gave  you  ev-  erything  he  had  has  now  given  you  too  much.  His  life  is  now  shattered,  owing  " b"to  one  last  effort  to  jump  head  first  into  a  ceiling  for  your  pleasure  and  amaze-  ment.  -You've  now  seen  in  slow  motion  the  play  that  led  to  the  injury  that  so  tragical-  ly  ended  your  career.  Tell  us  in  your  own  words,  if  you  can,  what  goes  through  your  mind  as  you  see  yourself  jump  into  the  ceiling.  -Howard,  I've  tried  to  put  all  that  behindme.  I  have  no  hard  feelings  toward  the  guy  who  moved  the  stage  or  the  audi-  ence  that  laughed-they  were  only  doing  their  job.  Right  now  my  job  is  to  regain  my  sense  of  humor  and  go  back  to  work.  I  feel  like  I'm  making  real  good  progress.  How-  ard,  I  consider  myself  to  be  one  lucky  guy.  Oh,  it  is  a  sad  story,  except  for  the  fact  that  it  isn't.  My  ceiling  jump  got  the  show  off  to  a  great  start.  The  band  played  three  fast  tunes,  and  I  jumped  carefully  back  onstage  and  did  a  monologue  that  the  audience,  which  now  knew  I  was  funny,  laughed  at  a  lot.  Even  I,  who  had  a  headache,  thought  it  was  funny.  I  really  did  feel  lucky.  So  do  I  still-a  tall  manwho  fell  now  sitting  down  to  write  his  mem-  oirs.  The  body  is  so  delicate,  the  skeleton  so  skinny;  we  are  stick  men  pencilled  in  lightly,  with  a  wooden  stick  cage  to  protect  the  heart  and  lungs  and  a  cap  of  bone  over  the  brain.  I  wonder  that  I  have  survived  so  many  plunges,  so  many  quick  drops     down  the  short  arc  that  leads  to  the  ground.  T  he  Haymow  Header  of  1949:  Was  playing  in  Uncle  Jim's  haymow  and  fell  through  a  hole,  landing  in  the  bull's  feed  trough,  barely  missing  the  stanchion,  and  was  carried  into  the  house,  where  Grandma  put  brown  pa-  per  on  my  head.  The  Milk  Jar  Mis-  hap  of  1951:  Tripped  on  the  cellar  steps  while  carrying  two  gallon  glass  jars  full  of  milk  from  the  grocery,  dropped  the  jars  (which  broke),  and  then  landed  on  them  but  didn'tcut  myself.  Went  to  my  room  and  cried.  My  dad  said,  &quot;That's  all  right,  it  doesn't  matter.&quot;  But  it  did  matter.  I  had  ruined  us-my  poor  family!  A  week's  worth  of  milk  gone  bust,  and  it  was  my  fault.  Miscellaneous  Bike  Bowls,  1954-  :  Biking  no-handed.  Going  over  the  bike  jump.  Going  down  a  steep  hill  and  hitting  loose  gravel.  Practicing  bike  skids.  Swerv-  ing  to  avoid  a  dog.  The  Freshman  Composition  Class  Collapse  of  1960:  After  staying  up  all  night  to  write  an  essay  on  a  personal  experience,  rose  in  Mr.  Cody's  class  to  read  it,  blacked  out,  and  fell  on  top  of  people  sitting  in  front  of  me.  Got  up  and  went  home.  Miscellaneous  Sports  Spills:  Basketball  collision  that  dislocated  left  elbow  in  1961.  Skating,  skiing,  tobogganing.  T  wo  memorable  outfield  collisions,  after  one  of  which  a  spectator  said  she  could  hear  our  heads  hit  two  hundred  and  fifty  feet  away.  Falls  of  Fatherhood:  Walking  across  the  room,  thinking  long-range  thoughts.  Suddenly  there's  an  infant  at  my  feet,  whom  I  am  just  about  tostep  on!  And  instantly  I  lift  the  foot  and  dive  forward,  sometimes  catching  my-  self  short  of  a  fall  and  sometimes  do-  ing  a  half  gainer  into  the  furniture.  (I  also  fall  for  cats.)  The  Great  Ladder  Leap  of  1971;  Climbing  up  to  install  a  second-story  storm  window,  felt  the  extension  ladder  slip  to  one  side,  dropped  the  window  and  jumped,  landing  in  a  flower  bed,  barely  miss-  ing  my  two-year-old  boy  standing  near-  by.  Dreams  of  Falls:  Too  numerous,  too  common,  to  mention.  Always  drawn  toward  the  edge  by  some  powerful  force,  tumble  through  space,  then  wake  upand  go  geta  glass  of  water.  HE  first  time  I  ever  went  naked  in  mixed  company  was  at  the  house  of  a  girl  whose  father  had  a  bad  back  and  had  built  himself  a  sauna  in  the  corner  of  the  basement.  Donna  and  I  were  friends  in  college.  Both  of  us  had  grown  up  in  fundamental-  ist  Christian  homes,  and  we  liked  to  compare  notes  on  that.  We  both  felt  constricted  by  our  upbringings  and  were  intent  on  liberat-  ing  ourselves  and  be-  coming  more  free  and  open  and  natural.  So  it  seemed  natural  and  inevitable  one  night  to  wind  up  at  her  house  with  some  of  her  friends  there  and  her  parents  gone  and  to  take  off  our  clothes  and  have  a  sauna.  We  were  nineteen  years  old  and  were  very  cool  (&quot;Take  off  my  clothes?  Well,  sure.  Heck,  I've  taken  them  off  dozens  of  times&quot;)  and  were  careful  to  keep  cool  and  be  non-  chalant  and  not  look  at  anybody  below  the  neck.  We  got  into  the  sauna  as  if  getting  on  the  bus.  People  do  this,  I  thought  to  my-  self.  There  is  nothing  unusual  about  it!  Nothing!  We  all  " b" have  bodies!  There  is  no  reason  to  get  excit-  ed!  This  is  a  normal  part  of  life!  We  filed  into  the  little  wooden  room,  all  six  of  us,  avoid-  ing  unnecessary  body  contact,  and  Donna  poured  a  bucket  of  water  on  the  hot  rocks  to  make  steam.  It  was  very  quiet.  &quot;There's  a  shower  there  on  the  wall  if  you  want  to  take  a  shower,&quot;  she  said  ina  strange,  ner-  vous  voice.  &quot;Hey!  How  about  a  shower!&quot;  a  guy  said  in  a  cool-guy  voice,  and  he  turned  on  the  water  full  blast.  The  shower  head  leaped  from  the  wall.  It  was  a  hand-  held  type-a  nozzle  at  the  end  of  a  hose-and  it  jumped  out  at  us  like  a  snake  and  thrashed  around  exploding  ice-cold  water.  He  fell  back,  someone  screamed,  I  slipped  and  fell,  Donna  fell  on  top  of  me,  we  leaped  apart,  and  meanwhile  the  nozzle  danced  and  flew  from  the  force  of  the  blast  of  water.  Donna  ranout  of  the  sauna  and  slipped  and  fell  on  the  laundry-room  floor,  and  another  girl  yelled,  &quot;God  damn  you,  Tom!&quot;  Donna  scrambled  to  her  feet.  &quot;God!  Oh,  God!&quot;  she  cried.  Tom  yelled,  &quot;I'm  sorry!&quot;  An-  other  guy  laughed  a  loud,  wicked  laugh,  and  I  tiptoed  out  as  fast  as  I  could  move,  grabbed  my  clothes,  and  got  dressed.  Donna  grabbed  her  clothes.  &quot;Are  you  all  right?&quot;  I  said,  not  looking  at  her  or  anything.  &quot;No!&quot;  she  said.  Somebody  laughed  a  warm,  appreciative  laugh  from  inside  the  sauna.  &quot;Don't  laugh!&quot;  she  yelled.  &quot;It  isn't  funny!  It  isn't  the  least  bit  funny!&quot;  &quot;I'm  not  laughing,&quot;  I  said,  though  it  wasn't  me  she  was  angry  at.  Istill  am  not  laughing.  I  think  it's  a  very  serious  matter,  twenty  years  later.  Your  first  venture  asa  naked  person,  you  want  it  to  go  right  and  be  a  good  experience,  and  then  some  joker  has  to  go  pull  a  fast  one.  All  I  can  say  is,  it's  over  now,  Donna.  Don't  let  it  warp  your  life.  We  were  young.  We  meant  well.  We  wanted  to  be  natural  and  free.  It  didn't  mean  we  were  awful.  God  didn't  turn  on  the  cold  water  to  punish  us  for  taking  off  our  clothes-  Tom  did,  and  he  didn't  mean  it,  either.  It  was  twenty  years  ago.  Let's  try  to  forget  it.  Write  me  a  letter  and  let  me  know  how  you're  doing.  I  would  like  to  hear  that  you're  doing  well,  as  I  am,  and  that  our  night  of  carnal  surprise  did  you  no  lasting  harm.  Life  is  so  won-  derful,  Donna.  I  remember  once,  after  I  lost  track  of  you,  I  ran  on  the  dock  ofa  summer  camp  where  I  worked  as  a  counsellor-ran  and  slipped  on  the  wet  boards  and  dida  backward  half  somersault  in  the  air  and  instead  of  hitting  the  dock  and  suffering  perma-  nent  injury  I  landed  clean  in  the  water  head  first  and  got  water  up  my  nose  and  came  up  sneezing  and  choking,  but  I  was  all  right,  and  is  that  so  surprising?  It  was  luck,  I  suppose,  but  then  two-thirds  of  the  earth's  surface  is  water,  so  our  chances  are  not  so  bad,  and  when  you  add  in  the  amount  of  soft  ground,  bushes,  and  cushions  in  the  world  and  the  amazingly  quick  reactions  of  the  body  to  protect  itself,  I  think  the  odds  of  comedy  are  better  than  even.  God  writes  a  lot  of  comedy,  Donna;  the  trouble  is,  He's  stuck  with  so  many  bad  actors  who  don't  know  how  to  play  funny.  When  I  dropped  the  window  off  that  falling  ladder  back  in  1971,  I  didn't  know  that  my  son  had  come  around  the  corner  of  the  house  and  was  standing  at  the  foot  of  the  ladder  watching  me.  The  window   hit  the  ground  and  burst,  the  ladder  hit  the  ground  and  bounced,  and  his  father  landed  face  first  in  the  chrysan-  themums;  all  three  missed  him  by  a  few  feet.  Quite  a  spectacle  for  a  little  boy  to  see  up  close,  and  he  laughed  out  loud  and  clapped  his  hands.  I  moved  my  arms  to  make  sure  they  weren't  broken  into  little  pieces,  and  I  clapped,  too.  Hurray  for  God!  So  many  fiction  writers  nowadays  would  have  sent  the  window  down  on  that  boy's  head  as  if  it  were  on  apulley  and  the  rope  were  around  his  neck,  but  God  let  three  heavy  objects  fall  at  his  feet  and  not  so  much  as  scratch  him.  He  laughed  to  see  me  and  I  laughed  to  see  him.  He  was  all  right  and  I  wasn't  so  bad  myself.  I  haven't  seen  you  since  that  night,  Donna.  I've  told  the  sauna  story  to  dozens  of  people  over  the  years,  and  they  all  thought  it  was  funny,  but  I  still  don't  know  what  you  think.  Are  you  all  right? "