 b"IT'S that time of night, when hunting  cats  will  be  getting  up  off  their  cushions.  It's  that  time,  when  cats  will  be  leaving  their  pampering  indoor  premises  through  half-open  windows  and  ingenious  cat  flaps.  Early  arrivals  will  have  already  added  their  luminous  watchfulness  to  the  darkness  at  thetop  of  the  wall.  And  here  I  am,  being  surly  at  our  table,  while  some  somnolent  saxo-  phonist  improvises  on  the  bandstand;  while  a  half-asleep  drummer-dying,  I  imagine,  for  a  large  stiff  drink-  does  his  inadequate  best  to  keep  up  withhim,  which  is  more  than  I  can  say  for  the  pianist;  while  a  double  bass  leans  like  a  fat  drunk  against  a  wall  and  its  musician  has  presumably  sloped  off  for  a  wet  or  a  sandwich.  What  is  this  evening  all  about?  The  summer's  conversations  feel  as  if  they  were  spoken  a  decade  ago.  I  keep  tell-  ing  myself  I'm  not  really  here;  I'm  somewhere  else,  being  nice  to  people,  or  reading  &quot;Le  Savon,&quot;  by  Francis  Ponge.  I  ought  to  be  in  bed,  plotting  to  get  my  hands  on  a  piece  of  cake  without  waking  my  wife  and  giving  her  good  reason  for  directing  accusa-  tions  at  the  growing  circumference  of  my  middle.  I  really  ought  to  be  dream-  ing.  gYoung  fashionables  are  being  loud  at  the  next  table.  &quot;Cosmeticized  an-  gels,&quot;  I  say,  &quot;with  damaged  wings,&quot;  feeling  under  an  obligation  to  remark  on  them  if  only  because  my  compan-  ions  seem  to  be  observing  them  with  attitudes  that  look  like  ambiguous  envy.  &quot;Film  stars,  aristocrats,  para-  sites,  and  God,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;These  are  the  few  allowed  to  have  a  good  time.&quot;  My  aphorism  impresses  them  like  a  bad  joke.  They  turn  away  from  the  shabby  exquisites.  I  eat  an  olive.  It  tastes  like  a  grape  injected  with  petrol.  Fashions  appear  to  have  rovedback-  ward  again.  I  can  almost  hear  the  sound  of  far-off  propellers  and  the  faint  whine  of  an  all-clear.  I  can  see  the  black  market  in  the  waiter's  eyes  as,  eagerly,  he  obeys  my  gesture  and  brings  another  bottle.  Tonight  is  all  aboutbeing  able  to  do  that  sort  of  thing.  I  am  a  colonel  of  the  Free  French,  with  a  pocketful  of  nylon  stockings.  Tonight,  ch\xc3\xa9rie,  we  will  have  a  good  time;  a  little  champagne,  some  cognac,  and  your  legs  will  never  be  the  same  again.  Tonight,  too,  is  about  wanting  to  stick  a  carnation  in  one's  teeth  and  IT\xe2\x80\x99S  that  time  of  night,  when  hunt-  take  off  in  a  tango.  It  is  about  being  different  from  who  you  are,  in  the  name  of  enjoying  yourself.  For  some  reason,  I  want  to  pretend  I  am  a  per-  forming  seal.  I  want  to  flap  my  flippers  in  front  of  my  face,  balance  a  ball  on  my  nose,  and  catch  fish  in  my  teeth.  If  nothing  else,  I  might  change  the  sub-  ject  of  conversation,  which  tonight  is  about  opportunities  in  the  antique  trade.  Oink!Oink!  No  salt-stinking  haddocks  land  on  our  table;  instead,  the  responsibly  chilled  wine  is  delivered  in  an  ice  bucket  by  a  starched  waiter  with  the  eyes  of  a  lion  tamer,  who  looks  steadily  at  me  while  I  look  steadily  back  at  him  with  the  eyes  of  a  mouse.  Is  it  time,  I  ask  myself,  for  my  trick  with  the  table-  cloth?  I  make  the  offer,  but  the  pianist  and  the  rest  of  the  band,  refreshed,  break  into  &quot;Take  the  'A'  Train&quot;  like  burglars,  and  not  only  do  we  have  to  listen  to  this  but  we  have  to  watch  it.  Is  this  the  post-modernist  aesthetic  about  which  I  have  heard  so  much  this  year?  Two  of  us  decided,  on  a  large  hot  day  in  Yorkshire,  that  the  lan-  guage  can  no  longer  be  used  to  de-  scribe  anythingwith  clarity.  &quot;It  is  not  up  to  us,&quot;  I  said  then.  &quot;No,&quot;  said  Charlie.  As  I  looked  through  the  glass  of  Charlie's  new  conservatory,  I  had  the  distinct  sensation  of  knowing  for  a  fact  that  his  goat,  his  lawn,  the  bench  under  the  evergreen,  the  stalks  of  last  season's  [REDACTED]  sprouts,  the  sky,  the  trees,  the  stone  walls,  the  moors  in  the  distance-all  knew,  all  know  where  the  language  is  hiding.  At  one  point  I  felt  convinced  that  Charlie's  goat  had  eaten  it.  Valedictions  all  day  and  every  day,  but  with  words  like  that  in  it  no  wonder  the  language  has  gone  to  ground.  A  young  man,  his  hairthecolor  of  tadpoles,  is  putting  his  tongue  into  the  mouth  of  a  woman  old  enough  to  be  his  mother.  &quot;She's  old  enough  to  be  his  mother,&quot;  says  someone's  girl-  friend  at  our  table,  excitedly-but  is  it  with  amusement  or  disapproval?  s  a  ho  fumis  MAY  31,  1982  &quot;Perhaps  she  is  his  mother,&quot;  says  a  friend  of  mind,  and  the  way  he  says  it  makes  me  glad  I  didn't  get  there  first.  Everyone  looks  as  if  words  have  been  stolen  from  their  mouths.  We  all  look,  and  imagine  we  can  see  family  resemblances.  But  he  gives  her  three  ten-pound  notes,  so  we  turn  away  tittering,  except  me;  mesmerized  by  the  expense,  I  can't  keep  my  eyes  off  that  rakish  young  man  and  his  elderly  consort.  &quot;'There  has  to  be  another  ex-  planation,&quot;  says  the  girl  who  started  all  this.  No  one  else  thinks  so.  Having  decided  what's  going  on  over  there,  they  are  now  being  urbane.  They  start  arguing  about  the  inflated  prices  of  chinoiserie.  I  can  hear  the  sea  in  the  distance,  murmuring  twaddle  about  the  drowned.  By  now  the  band  is  playing  something  I  suspect  they  are  making  up  as  they  go  along.  There  are  sonic  booms  over  Arcadia  and  [REDACTED],  over  northern  [REDACTED],  the  Antarctic,  and  the  mid-oceans,  which  no  one  ever  hears.  There  are  times  when  I  feel  like  the  ubiquitous  decimal  in  a  computer.  I  want  someone  to  write  &quot;I  LOVE  YOU&quot;  in  lipstick  on  the  back  of  my  white  tuxedo.  But  I  haven't  got  a  tuxedo.  Eavesdropping,  I  can  just  catch  what  some  bearded  little  charlatan  is  saying  about  his  forthcoming  plaqueite  of  verses.  I  want  to  go  up  to  the  microphone  and  announce  that  Paul  Eluard,  the  twerp's  mentor,  whom  he  is  supposed  to  have  visited  earlier  this  summer  at  Vence,  has  been  dead  since  1952.  A  drunk  blonde,  singing,  is  fighting  her  way  to  the  microphone.  How  em-  barrassing  for  her  husband,  who  is  reaching  up  to  hand  money  to  the  pianist.  Instead  of  a  tipsy  discourse  on  women's  underwear  in  the  twentieth  century,  from  the  feminist-Presbyte-  rian  point  of  view,  which  was  too  much  to  hope  for,  she  implicates  her-  self  with  &quot;Boulevard  of  Broken  Dreams.&quot;  I  am  so  determined  to  ap-  plaud  this  verites  that  I  am  applauding  already,  as  if  applauding  my  determi-  nation,  and  she's  just  started.  Yes,  I  see;  I  understand  why  the  large  party  she  is  with  is  looking  at  me  like  that.  She  must  be  popular  if  her  friends,  in  spite  of  her  inebriated  squeaks,  think  of  my  standup  vigorous  handclapping  as  impertinent  criticism.  In  the  men's  room  I  want  to  tell  the  man  standing  next  to  me  that  the  lan-  guage  is  sound  asleep  or  dead  or  that,  conceivably,  Charlie's  goat  has  eaten  " b"it;  and  that  even  in  remote  places  the  wilderness  is  dying.  But  I  tell  this  to  the  urinal,  and  bark  at  thestranger.  In  return,  he  strikes  me  viciously  with  his  fist,  straight  against  the  source  of  my  bark.  He  must  have  a  soft  fist-my  mouth  is  not  bleeding.  \xc2\xa9ODpsMOKE,  cicadas;  no,  true  enough.  I'm  not  here  at  all.  I  am  in  the  salle  dattente  at  the  Gare  d'  Austerlitz  on  my  way  toward  wood-  smoke  and  cicadas,  and  it  is  past  2  a.m.  Policemen  and  ticket  inspectors  are  staring  down  the  beams  of  their  torches.  There  is  the  sound  offeeble  snoring,  as  down-on-their-luck  voye-  geurs  wait  out  the  night  in  an  ashtray.  No,  nowhere  in  particular.  When  I  reach  Corr\xc3\xa9ze,  ifI  ever  do,  I  suppose  the  fragrance  of  the  countryside  will  smell  of  my  disillusionment  like  that  sweaty  waiting  room,  or  this  night  club  that  tastes  of  cigars,  cigarettes,  wine,  and  everything  that's  on  the  menu.  When  I  shut  my  eyes,  I  don't  know  where  I  am.  Trees  in  the  night  club,  the  saxophonist  swaying  like  a  deep-sea  diver,  the  drummer  carried  away  on  his  own  furies.  Tame  owl  on  my  shoulder,  what  time  is  it?  No,  no,  I  am  in  the  wrong  bed,  that's  not  her  book  under  the  pillow.  Coupledom.  I  hold  somebody's  hand  for  the  sake  of  appearances.  Much  has  been  for  the  sake  of  keeping  up  appear-  ances-fidelity,  infidelity,  good  man-  ners,  mass  murder.  It  is  the  wrong  hand.  I  slap  my  own  hand  and  pick  up  another  hand  from  the  table.  &quot;What  is  this,&quot;  I  ask,  &quot;a  s\xc3\xa9ance?&quot;  Moonlight  is  turning  to  char  on  the  high  heath,  er  fields  five  hundred  miles  away.  &quot;Why  are  you  holding  my  hand!?  Give  me  one  good  reason  why  you  should,  and  you  can  hold  my  hand,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;Because,&quot;  I  say,  &quot;I'm  dishonest.&quot;  &quot;And  what  of  your  big  mouth?  Can  you  keep  it  shut?&quot;  Discretion,  I  tell  her,  is  an  art  in  which  I  have  taken  several  crash  courses.  The  summer  is  turning  to  ice  in  the  head  of  my  friend  on  my  other  side.  &quot;I  don't  feel  married,&quot;  he  confesses.  &quot;I  feel  undivorced.&quot;  &quot;The  grass,&quot;  I  tell  him,  &quot;is  brown,  black,  purple,  any  shade  you  like,  but  it  is  never  green,  let  alone  greener,  on  the  other  sideof  the  hill.  Grass,  friend,  is  grass.&quot;  &quot;Thank  you,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;You  are  so  helpful.&quot;  &quot;At  thirty,&quot;  comes  a  braying  voice  from  thedistance  of  a  far  table,  &quot;she  became  something  of  a  bargain,  frankly.&quot;  Oink!  Oink!  Another  bottle  in  an  ice  bucket.  &quot;'I  let  go  of  life  with  my  gloves  on'!&quot;  She  tells  me  to  sit  down,  and  I  discover  that-true  enough-I'm  standing  up.  Making  the  most  of  this,  I  explain  that  I'm  playing  my  favorite  game,  which  I  call  Hunt  the  Idiot.  She  turns  away  from  me.  Perhaps  she's  trying  to  tell  me  something.  They  all  tell  me  to  sit  down.  Seated,  I  close  my  eyes,  and  see  things.  Lacking  the  cour-  age  to  be  a  performing  seal,  I  could  leap  up  onto  the  bandstand  and  make  an  announcement.  &quot;Ladies  and  gentle-  men!  I  am  thoroughly  browned  off  with  the  entire  universe!&quot;  Many  peo-  ple  have  done  that;  I  am  sure  of  it.  They  probably  survived  to  live  down  the  humiliation  and  tell  the  tale.  But  what  I  feel  to  be  absolutely  necessary  is  a  gesture  that,  before  these  friends  of  mine,  will  not  be  misinterpreted  as  a  cry  for  help  but  understood  as  an  in-  sult.  In  years  to  come,  I  will  wake  up  in  the  middle  of  the  night,  chewing  the  pillow  in  apocalyptic  embarrass-  ment.  That  waiter,  the  one  with  the  eyes  of  a  tout,  has  selected  me  as  the  likeli-  est  source  of  his  tip.  The  cheek  of  it!  From  what  evidence  has  he  sized  me  up  as  someone  cowardly  with  his  gen-  erosity?  Why  me?  Oink!  Oink!  &quot;Come  and  get  it!&quot;  shouts  the  mouse  to  the  lion  tamer.  Time  now,  I  think,  for  my  trick  with  the  tablecloth. "