 b"HERE  is  one  way  you  can  tell  H  that  winter  is  near:  the  squirrels  are  wearing  their  silver-tipped  furs.  Out  here,  pines  and  yews  and  junipers  keep  us  basted  to  the  living  seasons;  outside  our  windows,  there  are  no  wolves  running  through  the  evergreen  forests,  thank  God,  al-  though  it  is  probable  that  the  poor  have  the  suffering  to  which  they  are  fairly  accustomed.  While  nobody  we  know  is  poor,  nobody  has  any  money  -you  know.  We  have  put  away  our  golf  skirts  and  shirts  and  plaid  slacks;  our  tennis  dresses  and  shortsare  still  handy  to  get  at,  as  tennis  can  beplayed  inside  now,  in  bubbles  and  things,  in  any  weather,  although  it  is  my  candid  opinion  that  tennis  is  never  going  to  knock  sexout  of  the  ring  as  a  year-  round,  rain-or-shine  activity.  We  used  to  spend  Sunday  lying  around  the  house,  getting  to  know  each  other,  washing  our  hair,  looking  at  &quot;60  Minutes&quot;-all  that.  Then  acouple  of  years  ago  the  Times  published  a  piece  by  Enid  Nemy  that  said,  &quot;Forget  shampooing,  Sunday  is  suddenly  the  night  to  party.&quot;  Ms.  Nemy  went  on  to  describe  a  Sunday  &quot;bash&quot;-her  word  -which  was  &quot;big  and  personality  studded.  ...  Even  Andy  Warhol,  who  goes  toparties  almost  every  night,  was  thrown  for  a  loop.&quot;  Well.  Now  we  have  our  Sunday  parties,  too,  princi-  pally  those  that  entail  a  contribution  for  the  poor  and/or  handicapped-a  charity  &quot;bash.&quot;  Gladstone,  who  is  my  husband,  is  scarcely  ever  thrown  for  a  loop  by  parties,  but  we  make  our  con-  tribution,  and  I  feel  that  once  in  a  while  we  should  attend  the  spirit  of  the  occasion.  Tonight,  because  we  are  running  out  of  causes  but  not  benefac-  tors,  the  Swifts,  Tom  and  Gerry,  are  hosting  a  party  to  benefit  one-armed  painters-that  is,  unsung  artists  of  modest  means  who  claim  they  can  paint  better  with  one  hand  tied  be-  hind  their  backs  than  some  featured  in  Madison  Avenue  and  [REDACTED]  gal-  leries.  Gladstone  is  resigned.  He  says  he  supposes  it  is  true  that  out  of  misery  genius  creates  joy,  but  he  doesn't  understand  why  he  has  to  be  present.  Like  Gatsby,  he  dislikes  parties,  and,  also  like  Gatsby-at  least,  according  to  the  movie--he  would  prefer  to  give  one  of  his  own  while  sit-  ting  upstairs  in  his  bedroom,  listening  to  the  din  below.  But  our  house  is  too  small,  and  the  yard  can  be  soggy.  This  Sunday  morning  the  ground  glitters  with  a  thin  crust  of  snow.  I  get  up  and  go  down  to  the  enclosed  porch,  which  is  on  the  south  side  of  our  house.  The  sun  has  flared  over  the  back  yard,  turning  the  snow,  the  enamelled  trees  intoa  rosy  scene.  Robert  White,  who  is  one  of  my  two  white  cats,  has  been  sleeping  on  top  of  the  back  of  a  bluechintz  flow-  er-sprigged  love  seat.  Hearing  me,  he  lifts  his  head,  stretches,  rolls  over  on  his  back,  and  tumbles  down  onto  the  cushions,  asprawl.  &quot;Morning,&quot;  I  say,  and  amble  over  to  stare  at  some  pink  geraniums,  to  give  him  time  to  pull  himself  together  and  scrambleback  to  his  ledge,  where  he  begins  yawning  as  if  he  hadn't  noticed  anything  unusual.  I  seem  to  be  in  a  good  humor,  or  I  would  say,  &quot;Clumsy!&quot;  Perhaps  it  is  the  sun.  I  am  wearing  my  white  fleece  robe  and  red  down-filled  slippers,  a  present  from  one  of  the  children.  As  I  turn  to  leave,  I  slip  on  the  bare  floor  but  regain  my  balance  in  time  to  see  Robert  White,  who  has  been  watching  me,  put  his  head  down  on  his  paws,  lift  one  paw  to  cover  his  eyes,  and  doze  off.  I  carefully  continue  into  the  kitch-  en,  put  the  teakettle  on  for  a  flagon  of  decaf,  and  go  out  to  getthe  Sun-  day  Times.  Gladstone  will  make  the  coffee.  Back  in  bed,  sorting  out  the  paper,  I  get  to  the  magazine  section,  turn  to  the  puzzles,  and  seea  good  thing:  today  there  is  an  Acrostic.  As  I  set-  tle  down,  Gladstone  shuffles  into  the  room  in  his  faded  yellow  pajamas,  looking  like  a  frayed  stalk  of  last  week's  celery,  and  tells  me  that  there  is  a  mouse  in  the  mousetrap  in  back  of  the  refrigerator.  I  say,  &quot;Live  and  let  live,&quot;  and  reach  for  a  sharp  pencil.  He  reminds  me  that  he  traps  mice  only  to  keep  me  from  having  an  episode.  He  is  right.  He  goes  out,  comes  back,  and  says  he  has  thrown  the  mouse  away.  He  wonders  if  we  should  have  a  boa  constrictor  to  feed  the  mice  to;  Glad-  stone  doesn't  like  waste.  He  looks  out  the  window,  sighs,  and  says  that  after  coffee  he  believes  he  will  go  for  a  spin  in  the  country.  I  remind  him  that  he  is  already  in  the  country.  He  recalls  this    and  nods;  then  he  says  that  the  radio  has  told  him  there  may  be  flurries  to-  day,  toward  evening,  which  rules  out  going  anywhere  in  the  car,  as  he  has  used  up  his  last  can  of  spray-on  liquid  chains,  and  he  has  been  told  that  they  don't  make  the  stuff  anymore.  I  remind  him  that  we  don't  drive  to  visit  the  Swifts,  who  are  neighbors,  just  down  the  road.  I  am  halfway  through  Across  when  Gladstone  goes  downstairs  and  returns  with  a  mug  of  coffee  and  a  pein  cu  chocolat  for  me.  I  thank  him  and  ask  if  he  has  had  breakfast.  He  says  he  hasn't;  he  thinks  he  will  fix  a  cup  of  tea  for  himself.  His  skin  feels  funny  all  over,  sore  when  you  touch  it,  and  he  is  a  trifle  giddy-light-headed,  you  might  say-as  if  he  were  about  to  spike  a  temp  (hospital  jargon  he  em-  ploys  anytime  his  temperature  is  even  the  slightest  bit  over  98.6).  I  tell  him  that  if  he  feels  light-headed  he  ought  toeat  something  substantial.  He  stands  at  the  foot  of  my  bed  and  says  he  has  a  little  story-something  he  hasn't  wanted  to  worry  me  with.  I  lower  the  mag  section  and  look  at  him  closely.  It's  this:  Last  week,  when  he  went  to  the  doctor's  for  his  physical,  his  heart  skipped  a  beat  now  and  then.  I  ask  him  if  the  doctor  told  him  this.  No,  he  says,  he  pointed  it  out  to  the  doc-  tor.  And  what,  I  want  to  know,  did  the  doctor  say?  Gladstone  shrugs  and  tells  me  the  doctor  says  it's  very  com-  mon  for  theheart  to  skip  a  beat-  nothing  to  worry  about.  Then  we  won't  worry,  will  we,  I  say.  Gladstone  turns  to  go  out  of  the  room,  and  as  he  leaves  he  says,  &quot;They  never  tell  you  anything  until  it's  too  late.&quot;  I  finish  Across  as  he  comes  back  into  the  room  with  a  cup  of  tea  and  gives  me  a  pierc-  ing  stare.  How  many  people  will  there  be  at  this  party,  he  wants  to  know.  I  tell  him  I  haven't  asked  for  the  guest  list.  He  sits  wearily  on  the  bed  and  says  there  will  be  too  many.  Gladstone  believes  that  a  party  with  more  people  than  there  arechairs  is  evidence  of  a  flagging  society.  I  frown  at  Across,  which  will  look  a  lot  better  when  I  get  in  some  Downs.  ATER  in  the  day,  crossword  in  abeyance,  I  find  I  can  only  fill  in  four  blanks  of  the  Acrostic  and  so  start  to  put  &quot;A&quot;  or  &quot;I&quot;  in  the  single  spaces.  The  phone  rings.  It  is  my  friend  Sally,  who  with  her  husband  has  just  moved  out  here  from  [REDACTED]  to  get  away  from  crime  in  and  under  the  streets.  She  doesn't  know  where  she  is  yet-  the  town  is  still  confusing  to  her-but  " b"Sally  hasn't  always  known  where  she  was  even  when  she's  been  there  for  a  while.  Now  they  havebeen  talking  about  corned  beef  on  rye-one  of  the  things  they  miss  from  the  city-and  she  wonders  if  there's  a  kosher  deli  in  this  town.  I  tell  her  there  are  more  than  one,  but  closest  to  her  is  Gold's.  She  says  she  doesn't  know  where  Gold's  is.  I  tell  her  Gold's  is  right  across  the  street  from  Silver's.  She  says  she  doesn't  know  where  Silver's  is.  Right  across  the  street  from  Gold's,  I  say,  and  then,  relenting,  I  add  the  name  of  the  street.  Gladstone,  who  has  been  listening  in  case  the  call  might  be  for  him,  asks  if  I'd  like  a  corned  beef  on  rye;  he'dbe  glad  to  run  out  and  get  me  one.  I  tell  him  he'd  better  rest  for  the  party.  He  says  I  am  perfectly  right,  although  corned  beef  on  rye  sounds  good,  and  he  has  heard  that  milk  is  no  longer  considered  the  panacea  for  a  possible  pre-ulcerous  condition.  I  ask  him  if  he  knows  a  five-letter  word  for  African  antelope,  beginning  with  &quot;K.&quot;  He  says,  &quot;Koala.&quot;  I  put  the  paper  down  and  tell  him  that  if  he  does  have  apre-  ulcerous  condition  he'd  better  take  it  easy  on  the  sauce  at  the  party.  He  says  that  may  not  be  hard  to  do,  as  they  will  probably  be  serving  something  pink  in  little  glass  cups  with  handles.  I  ask,  &quot;Well,  what's  a  cup  without  a  handle?&quot;  He  wanders  away,  and  I  consider  the  alternative  to  the  party-  staying  home.  I  conclude  that  there  is  nothing  basically  wrong  with  going  out  of  the  house  on  Sunday-a  custom  established  by  our  Puritan  ancestors.  I  get  up,  toss  on  my  white  fleece  robe,  and  go  to  look  for  my  portable  pencil  sharpener.  Gladstone  is  coming  my  way;  I  am  going  the  other  way.  We  meet  in  the  narrow  upstairs  hall  and  pause.  Gladstone  turns  sideways;  I  do  the  same.  We  keep  walking,  with-  out  saying  anything.  What  is  there  to  say-&quot;Excuse  me,&quot;  or  &quot;Pardon  me&quot;?  It  occurs  to  me  that  being  alone  together  on  Sunday  in  a  split-level  house  and  meeting  on  the  same  level  is  not  without  its  complexities.  Back  in  bed,  I  sharpen  my  pencil  as  Ms.  White,  my  other  white  cat,  in  a  demonstration  of  flexibility  that  only  cats  know  about,  causes  herself  to  lie  close  to  me  on  my  left  side,  her  V-  shaped  chin  resting  lightly  on  a  part  of  my  arm  that  does  not  bend.  She  looks  at  me  coolly  on  a  clear  day.  I  am  not  wasting  time;  I  am  relaxing.  Her  steady  blue  eyes  are  taking  me  in,  reading  me,  and  although  I  think  of  myself  as  always  composed,  I  feel  that  some  comment  on  my  position  would  not  be  amiss.  &quot;Of  all  the  exercises  for  a  low-back  condition,  which  afflicts  more  of  us  than  I  can  possibly  say,  this  is  the  one  I  prefer,&quot;  I  tell  her.  &quot;Lying  in  bed.  Off  the  feet,  and  not  sitting  up.&quot;  She  continues  tostare,  and  I  put  everything  on  the  nightstand  and  roll  over  for  a  nap.  As  dusk  settles  over  the  land,  we  get  dressed.  The  Whites,  sensing  our  de-  parture,  float  restlessly  about  the  house  like  little  low  ghosts,  doomed  to  wan-  der  forever  through  darkness,  not  even  allowed  to  say  &quot;Boo.&quot;  Gladstone  is  about  to  slip  a  navy-blue  blazer  over  his  white  turtleneck,  but  he  has  to  pause  to  whisk  away  white  cat  hairs.  He  says  it  has  always  puzzled  him  that  the  cats  can  rise  up  to  where  his  dark  blazers  hang  and  rub  against  them.  I  tell  him  to  cool  it-that  he's  not  Prince  Hamlet,  nor  was  he  meant  to  be.  I  am  busy  getting  into  last  year's  bomber  jacket  and  knickers.  As  we  leave,  I  see  Gladstone  put  his  pocket  flashlight  into  his  blazer  pocket  and  stride  into  thekitchen,  where  he  picks  up  a  square  of  something  opaque  that  also  goes  into  his  pocket.  We  open,  then  close  the  doorbehind  us,  spin  locks,  turn  keys,  shuttle  up  the  drive,  way  and  onto  the  road.  It  has  become  night,  with  intermittent  pale  moon-  light,  heavy  clouds.  In  a  chiaroscuro  silence  we  wend  our  way  to  the  Swifts'.   Before  going  into  the  house,  we  synchronize  our  watches.  &quot;One  hour,&quot;  Gladstone  says  firmly.  I  salaam.  N  TER  dumping  our  outer  coats  we  join  the  melee  in  the  party  room.  We  greet  Tom,  whose  outline  is  al-  ready  beginning  to  sag,  and  he  waves  us  on  toward  the  center  of  activity.  A  willowy  young  woman,  whom  I  have  never  seen  before,  all  loose  ends,  swirls  up  to  Gladstone  and  says  huskily,  &quot;I  can't  wait  to  find  out  what  those  wick-  ed  blue  eyes  are  thinking.&quot;  Gladstone  places  his  right  hand  in  his  blazer  pocket,  only  the  thumb  remaining  out-  side,  in  the  manner  of  William  Powell  in  &quot;The  Thin  [REDACTED];  I  am  happy  that  he  is  integrated  with  the  group;  the  brisk  walk  in  fresh  air  has  been  good  for  his  color  and  restored  him  to  his  usual  affable  self.  I  shove  along  to  an  encapsulated  gathering  where  I  am  sure  the  bar  is,  and  I  am  right.  Skip-  per,  white-jacketed,  who  pours  at  all  these  occasions,  is  doing  his  presti-  digitational  thing  behind  the  long  ta-  ble,  with  its  rank  on  rank  of  bottles,  mixers,  ice  tubs,  and  glasses,  like  Meredith's  army  of  unalterable  law.  I  give  up  trying  to  count  the  number  of  hands  he  has  and  say,  &quot;Hi,  Skip,  how's  it  going?&quot;  He  produces  my  usual,  summer  or  winter-vodka  with  a  splash.  &quot;Lots  of  good  food  in  the  kitchen,&quot;  he  whispers.  &quot;Makings  for  things  in  sauces.&quot;  He  beams  at  me.  &quot;Rows  and  rows  of  roux.&quot;  I  clench  my  glass  and  back  away,  looking  for  someone  to  lean  against.  Instantly,  I  am  in  a  clutch  of  strangers,  who  make  for  good  support,  although,  having  raised  my  glass  to  my  lips,I  am  unable  to  lower  my  " b"arm.  They  are  speaking  of  tours,  of  travelling.  Someone  is  going  to  50657275.  Someone  else  says,  &quot;Don't  cross  any  bridges;&quot;  they  all  nod  soberly.  This  is  obviously  the  literary  crowd-tacky,  but  better  than  being  trampled.  I  case  the  other  guests  through  a  gap  between  two  necks.  Every  woman  over  fifty  has  a  Princess  Di  haircut;  the  younger  ones  are  divided  between  Raggedy  Ann  and  thefamiliar  cas-  cades.  My  hair  always  looks  as  if  it  had  been  slept  in.  There  are  many  young  women,  I  notice;  some  must  be  models,  or  perhaps  they  are  only  sleep-  walking.  I  see  television  actresses,  too,  recognizable  by  the  way  they  hook  a  strand  ofhair  out  of  their  eyes-their  principal  stress  reaction.  And  then  there  is  Flo,  our  neighborhood  psychi-  atrist's  wife;  he  has  been  ailing.  I  ex-  tricate  myself  from  the  group,  duck  under  a  raised  arm,  and  get  over  to  her.  &quot;How's  Chuck?&quot;  I  ask.  &quot;Better,&quot;  Flo  says.  &quot;In  fact,  he's  here.  He's  got  it  all  together  now,  he  says-both  oars  in  the  water.  No  more  pussyfooting  for  him;  he's  telling  it  like  it  is,  letting  it  all  hang  out.&quot;  Gladstone  passes  us,  towing  the  wil-  lowy  young  woman  through  the  treacherous  throng.  He  holds  upan  empty  glass  that  is  not  a  little  cup  with  a  handle.  &quot;One  for  the  road,&quot;  he  mouths,  and  they  disappear.  Flo  and  I  are  greeted  by  a  couple  of  Method  actors  acting  like  guests.  Just  as  I  say  how  sorry  I  am  not  to  have  seen  a  play  in  New  York  that  everyone  else  seems  to  know  by  heart,  Chuck  appears  and  flings  an  arm  over  my  shoulders.  I  turn  to  him.  &quot;I  was  just  saying  I'm  sorry  I  missed  that  play,&quot;  I  repeat.  Chuck  wags  a  finger  at  me.  &quot;Tell  you  what  I  don't  miss,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Opera.  Opera  is  something  we  go  to  before  our  characters  are  fully  formed.&quot;  He  explodes  with  laughter.  Ifind  myself  tapped  by  one  of  three  women  whom  I  know  from  the  slow  lane  in  the  shallow  pool  at  a  local  spa  where  we  do  our  exercises.  They  say  they  have  been  discussing  me-they  wondered  if  I  had  been  ill,  because  they  hadn't  seen  me  lately.  I  tell  them  I  am  giving  up  the  pool,  as  I  am  developing  the  soul  of  an  oyster.  Chuck  wants  to  know  why  I  ever  started  such  a  thing.  I  tell  him  that  a  doctor  said  it  would  be  good  for  my  lower  back.  Chuck  says  he  has  a  new  doctor  story.  You  know,  he  says,  how  we've  been  going  to  doctors  and  hav-  ing  thermometers  put  in  our  mouths  for  years.  And  they  take  the  thermometers  out  of  a  container  of  alcohol  that  was  supposed  to  be  sterilizing  them?  Chuck  pulls  out  a  handkerchief  and  wipes  his  eyes;  he  is  approaching  a  paroxysm  now.  He  says,  &quot;O.K.  Some-  body  got  thebright  ideaof  testing  the  alcohol,  and  guess  what.&quot;  Before  any-  one  can,  Chuck  begins  to  break  up.  Between  gasps,  he  says  that  the  al-  cohol  was  swimming  with  bacteria;  in  other  words,  doctors  have  been  infect-  ing  God  knows  how  many  millions  of  us  for  years.  He  drapes  himself  around  Flo  and  is  totally  out  of  it.  For  any  number  of  reasons,  I  am  grateful  that  Gladstone  is  elsewhere  at  the  moment,  and  I  am  about  to  say  that  we  always  put  our  thermometer  in  bourbon,  which  we  don't  keep  around  all  that  long,  when  I  begin  to  smell  food.  The  buffet  has  been  brought  out.  Suddenly  a  hush  falls  over  the  room.  Dodging  through  the  traffic,  I  get  to  the  food  beforethe  mob  converges,  but,  having  filled  a  plate,  I  cannot  find  a  place  to  sit  down.  And  I  cannot  eat  standing  up,  with  food  in  one  hand  and  a  glass  of  wine  in  the  other-an  ancient  dilemma-although  from  time  to  time  I  have  considered  snapping  at  whatever  comes  loose  on  the  plate.  I  think  wistfully  of  little  tables,  but  there  is  no  room  for  them,  and,  sitting  down  without  one,  you  never  know  whose  knee  your  plate  will  end  up  on.  I  circle  the  table  and  join  Skipper  be-  hind  the  bar.  There,  wineglass  resting  on  the  bar  table,  I  manage  to  take  in  some  nourishment  before  I  note  a  hand  waving  above  the  crop  of  heads,  and  then  another  hand,  both  obviously  at-  tached  to  the  same  body.  They  belong  to  Gladstone,  who  turns  his  wrist  to-  ward  me  and  taps  his  watch.  Joining  Gladstone  is  another  strug-  gle.  The  party  has  become  an  assembly  of  individuals  now,  or  so  I  gather  from  bits  of  conversation  that  drift  by,  or  that  I  pass  on  my  way.  A  woman  in  a  knitted  top  shot  through  with  Lurex  turns  to  me  as  I  struggle  by,  glances  at  my  bomber  jacket,  and  continues  something  she  has  been  saying  to  her  companions:  &quot;And  I  detest  winter.  Isn't  it  cleverof  nature  to  put  the  earth  to  sleep  so  that  we  don't  have  to  work  outside  with  decorative  annuals  or  crops  in  this  hideous  weather!&quot;  An-  other  voice:  &quot;...  sell  the  house  and  buy  a  condo.  No  upkeep.  And  when  you  want  to  leave,  you  just  close  the  front  door  and  go.&quot;  Then  through  a  rippleof  in-depth  highlighted  hair:  &quot;I  said  I  couldn't  boil  water.  Cooking  is  not  what  I  do.&quot;  And  a  little  farther  on:  &quot;It's  so  trendy!  Imagine-being  conceived  in  a  saucer.&quot;  On  the  verge  of  freedom,  I  inch  past  the  literary  group.  Someone  says,  &quot;I  heard  that  Red  Brown  didn't  get  into  [REDACTED]'s  last  night.&quot;  &quot;Why?  Couldn't  get  past  the  front  door?&quot;  &quot;Mmm.  His  last  book  didn't  get  past  the  first  printing-con-  fidentially,  six  thousand.&quot;  I  am  almost  stopped  by  a  friend  whose  story  I  have  heard  before.  &quot;Last  year  we  worked  for  days  winding  those  strips  around  the  trees,  and  what  happened?  The  damned  caterpillars  crawled  under  them.&quot;  It  is  full  steam  ahead  but  with  everyone  marching  to  a  different  drummer,  or  not  taking  the  road  not  taken,  while  I  am  only  trying  to  do  it  my  way.  Slightly  dizzy  but  still  up-  right  and  scarcely  bruised  at  all,  I  reach  Gladstone.  We  dig  around  for  " b"our  coats,  find  them,  and  ease  out  the  front  door.  HERE  is  a  crash-  ing  silence  under  the  black  sky.  Our  coats  hang  open.  Finally,  Gladstone  says,  &quot;Not  too  bad  out,  isit?  I  think  there'sa  warming  trend.&quot;  &quot;I  already  noticed,&quot;  I  tell  him.  &quot;And  a  rapid  recovery,  too.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  that,&quot;  Glad-  stone  says.  &quot;Well,  there  was  this  chick,  as  you  might  have  noticed,  but  you  can  take  it  from  me,  it  never  would  have  worked  out.  She  thought  I  was  a  television  pro-  ducer.&quot;  A  black  cat  streaks  across  the  road;  a  car  races  by.  Gladstone  takes  the  flashlight  from  his  pocket  and  hands  it  to  me.  Then  he  removes  the  folded  opaque  square  and  shakes  it  out;  it  becomes  a  plastic  garbage  bag.  I  turn  the  flash-  light  on  the  shoulder  of  the  road,  and  Gladstone,  stooping  over,  fishes  up  an  old  milk  carton  from  a  cone  of  frozen  snow  and  drops  it  into  the  garbage  bag.  &quot;You  didn't  tell  me  everyone  in  town  would  be  there  tonight,&quot;  he  says,  kicking  at  something  on  the  roadside,  but  it  is  a  piece  of  wood.  &quot;Organic,&quot;  he  goes  on.  &quot;And  too  rotted  for  the  fireplace.&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  know,&quot;  I  point  out.  &quot;But  I  was  glad  tosee  Chuck.  He  was  having  a  great  time.  Laughed  a  lot.&quot;  &quot;People  who  laugh  a  lot  have  no  sense  of  humor,&quot;  Gladstone  says.  &quot;Listen,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;At  least  it  wasn't  dog  night.&quot;  &quot;What's  dog  night&quot;&quot;  he  wants  to  know.  He  leans  over  and  scoops  up  a  soggy,  empty  six-packcarton  and  puts  it  in  his  bag.  &quot;Dog  night  is  a  kind  of  party,&quot;  I  explain.  &quot;Usually  small.  Composed  of  dogs.&quot;  &quot;Will  you  keep  that  light  turned  over  here,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Just  look  at  this  road;  What's-His-  Name  was  right:  we're  all  going  to  be  buried  in  garbage  up  to  our  ears.  Doesn't  anybody  keep  anything  anymore?  What  kind  of  dogs?&quot;  &quot;People,&quot;  I  tell  him.  &quot;For  instance,  I  had  lunch  with  Cynthia  this  week;  they're  having  a  party  next  Saturday-  a  few  people  they  owe,  nobody  anyone  really  wants  to  know,  paybacks,  fac-  tory  seconds.  Dogs,  see?  Then  the  fol-  lowing  Saturday  they're  having  the  \xc3\xa9lite-you  know.  Shementioned  a  couple  of  famous  TV  personalities  and  their  wives,  two  famous  opinion-mak-  ers  and  their  husbands,  and  an  impor-  tant  voice-over  from  the  43616e616461Park  West  area.&quot;  Gladstone  pauses  to  try  to  straighten  out  a  battered  mailbox.  &quot;Damned  kids,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;No  respect  for  property  values.&quot;  Now  he  has  found  some  beer  cans,  which  go  into  his  bag.  Then  there  is  a  plastic  bottle  he  disposes  of,  and  some  crumpled  papers.  We  are  at  thetop  of  our  driveway.  &quot;How  would  we  rate,  would  you  say?&quot;  he  asks  thoughtfully,  as  we  am-  ble  downhill  to  the  front  door.  &quot;There's  no  way  to  find  out  when  it's  such  a  big  party,&quot;  I  answer.  &quot;Ev-  eryone  in  town  must  have  been  in-  vited.&quot;  Gladstone  looks  back  at  the  road.  &quot;I'll  tell  you  something,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;There's  still  a  lot  of  litter  out  there  left  over  for  another  day.&quot;  Standing  by  his  side  under  a  failing  door  light,  I  am  suddenly  sad:  sorry  for  Gladstone,  so  hopelessly  dedicated to  the  removal  and  eradication  of  gar-  bage-the  hopeless  ideal  of  an  impec-  cable  earth.  He  takes  out  his  keys,  turns  off  the  first  alarm,  unlocks  the  iron  gate,  and  fiddles  with  the  combination  on  the  door.  We  get  inside,  close  the  door,  and  reverse  the  entryprocedure.  The  Whites  are  waiting,  crouched  on  the  red  carpet,  hunched  with  their  backs  to  us.  &quot;We're  home,&quot;  I  say  cheerfully.  They  do  not  move.  Now  they  resemble  broody  hens,  although  they  have  no  future  in  parenting.  Gladstone  peers  inside  his  garbage  bag.  &quot;I  guess  there's  nothing  in  here  worth  saving,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;I'll  get  rid  of  it  in  the  trash  can.&quot;  &quot;Anyway,  you're  looking  better  than  when  we  left,&quot;  I  tell  him.  &quot;Get-  ting  out  was  good  for  you.&quot;  Gladstone  nods.  Even  he  has  to  ad-  mit  that  it's  more  fun  to  be  taken  for  the  kind  of  fellow  who  might  be  the  producer  of  &quot;60  Minutes&quot;  than  to  watch  it  with  a  wet  head.  "