 b"Sunday:  Richard's  good  humor  at  breakfast  makes  me  fear  the  worst.  He  taps  out  &quot;If  Volsa  was  your  father&quot;  with  his  coffee  spoon,  all  the  while  throwing  sugar  in  the  air.  Struggling  to  put  my  torment  into  words,  I  remark  that  no  man  can  expect  a  daily  ration  of  jam  on  the  bread  rolls  of  Life.  Richard  at  once  plunged  into  deep  and  uncreative  gloom.  There  are  abysses  from  which  not  even  my  love  can  reclaim  his  ge-  nius.  Nurse  says  children  have  mumps.  Monpay:  Long-awaited  letter  from  Munich,  stamped  with  royal  seal.  Contains  ele-  giac  poem  in  royal  hand.  No  mention  of  elegy  about  royal  letter  of  credit.  R.  weeps  and  goes  back  to  bed.  Find  him  burrowed  into  eiderdown  quilt.  Feath-  ers  everywhere.  Read  children  sublime  one-act  play  about  the  gross  treachery  of  an  oboe  player  in  [REDACTED].  Nurse  much  affected.  Cannot  shake  off  the  curious  certainty  that  I  am  the  re-  incarnation  ofa  cavalry  officer  from  Pomerania.  T  urspay:  Richard  dreams  I  am  a  sailing  ship  whose  captain  knows  no  rest.  At  the  end  of  the  dream,  he  says,  I  was  sink-  ing  over  the  horizon,  while  the  cap-  tain,  who  had  jumped  overboard,  was  treading  water.  Nothing  in  mail  but  arrogant  claims  from  creditors  and  in-  solent  letters  from  admirers  in  [REDACTED].  R.  truly  gifted  at  discerning  the  jeers  and  taunts  that  underlie  all  praise.  Nurse  makes  paper  wings  for  children  out  of  discarded  bills.  As  children  climb  on  table,  attempting  to  fly,  I  murmur,  &quot;The  angels!&quot;  R.  says,  &quot;What?&quot;  I  reply,  &quot;THE  ANGELS!&quot;  Cannot  hear  his  answer.  WrpnEspay:  Professor  Nietzsche  to  lunch.  He  wears  tight  boots,  which  give  him  a  walk  without  charm  or  distinction.  Decide  to  write  him  a  letter  about  his  feet.  Unable  to  show  letter  to  R.,  who  locked  his  door  in  a  fit  of  absent-  mindedness.  Read  letter  through  key-  hole.  Wanted  to  send  for  locksmith,  but  Nurse  says  they  are  all  Jews  now.  THurspay:  Say  to  Richard,  &quot;A  letter  from  poor  Hans.&quot;  R.  says,  through  door,  &quot;Poor  Hans  who?&quot;  Reply  faintly  but  deci-  sively,  &quot;My  husband.&quot;  Hans  writes  that  his  new  house  is  too  small  for  a  wife  and  five  children  and  that  I  might  as  well  stay  where  I  am.  Read  chil-  dren  harmonious  essay  about  how  they  make  rye  bread  in  [REDACTED].  Nurse  reflective.  Pick  R.'s  lock  with  cro-  chet  hook,  find  him  asleep  under  bed.  Wake  him  up  and  tell  him  about  this  haunting  feeling  I  have  of  being  a  reincarnated  cavalry  officer.  Must  have  soothed  him,  because  he  sank  into  a  deep  sleep  after  about  a  minute.  Fripay:  R.  still  under  bed.  Sit  on  floor  and  analyze  our  love  (quality,  quantity,  and  life  expectancy);  also,  describe  long  dream  I  had  about  the  Thirty  Years'  War.  R.  bursts  into  tears,  says  he  no  longer  believes  in  the  predomi-  nance  of  the  string  section  and  has  run  out  of  schnapps.  It  is  sad  indeed.  Throw  him  a  kiss.  Children's  bath-  water  cold-probably  the  work  of  French  critics.  SATURDAY:  Spend  fulfilling  day  drawing  up  list  of  enemies.  Intend  to  classify  names  according  to  income,  generosity  poten-  tial,  musical  discrimination,  and  an-  noying  personal  habits.  Dreamed  I  was  a  lieutenant  colonel  in  the  Hano-  ver  Fusiliers.  Said  nothing  to  R.,  who  happened  to  remark  at  breakfast  that  our  love  can  probably  transcend  the  occasional  silence.  Sunpay:  Looking  everywhere  for  R.,  find  him  shut  up  in  the  piano.  Read  him  a  book  about  how  Belgians  train  dogs  to  draw  milk  carts.  It  is  all  love;  love  transcends  the  gap  between  an  average  Belgian  and  an  average  cart.  R.  climbs  out  of  piano.  A  week  ago  today  he  was  cheerful  at  breakfast.  Tears  overflow  as  memory  of  Sundays  past,  not  to  mention  the  prospect  of  an  infinity  of  Sundays  to  come,  overwhelms  me.  Children  sit  in  wasp  nest,  probably  left  in  garden  by  ungrateful  tenor.  Monpay:  Impertinent  Viennese  critic  com-  pares  R.  favorably  with  Mozart,  Bach,  Beethoven,  and  Napoleon,  but  leaves  out  Philip  of  Macedon.  Write  letter  of  exquisite  firmness  pointing  out  omis-  sion.  Richard  paces  house,  exclaiming,  &quot;'That  is  no  woman!&quot;  In  the  evening  I  remark,  &quot;My  dear  Richard,  I  do  hope  that  our  love  can  transcend  certain  33  impulsive  declarations.&quot;  R.laughs  heartily,  then  cries.  Realize  later  he  must  have  had  Professor  Nietzsche's  sister  in  mind,  Turspay:  Letter  from  Munich  with  royal  seal.  Contains  royal  photograph.  Add  King  to  list  of  enemies.  Wrpnespay:  R.  dreams  he  has  received  royal  money  order  to  be  drawn  on  a  fabulous  bank,  built  by  giants,  towering  in  the  clouds.  Ask  why  I  am  nowhere  in  dream.  R.  explains  that  I  am  on  top  ofa  bleak  mountain,  surrounded  by  an  impenetrable  ring  of  fire.  Obtain  promise  that  tonight  he  will  dream  the  same  thing  differently:  this  time  he  can  sleep  on  top  of  the  bleak  mountain  and  I  can  take  the  money  order  to  the  fabulous  bank.  THurspay:  Messenger  in  royal  livery  gallops  up  with  sealed  message  for  royal  bank  manager.  Wafted  to  heights  that  only  death  can  transcend,  ask  R.  what  he  is  thinking  at  that  moment.  R.  replies,  &quot;Bismarck.&quot;  Nurse  arrives  to  say  all  the  children  have  fallen  out  second-  floor  window.  Tell  R.  that,  asa  matter  of  fact,  I  did  hear  a  series  of  thumps  but  mistook  them  for  the  beating  of  my  heart.  Fripay:  Richard  busy  again!  House  rings  with  the  golden  sound  of  royal  coins  being  tested  on  marble-top  table.  Try  to  judge  by  ear  what  it  all  amounts  to,  R.  having  accidentally  locked  door  and  stuffed  candle  wax  in  keyhole.  Remember  I  am  Mother,  read  children  biography  of  Genghis  Khan.  Remove  King  from  list  of  enemies,  but  feel  distressed  because  removal  leaves  un-  tidy  blank.  Children  look  spotty  at  lunch.  Observe  to  Nurse  they  could  probably  do  with  a  wash.  Nurse  ex-  plains  they  have  Rocky  Mountain  spotted  fever.  [REDACTED],  our  enemies  give  us  no  rest.  Richard  in  tears  at  dinner,  says  royal  order  a  little  on  the  short  side.  Day  ends  transcendentally  as  children  eat  royal  coins,  Nurse  gives  notice,  and  Richard  sobs  under  din-  ing-room  rug.  Ponder  the  Fate  that  made  me  Spouse,  Muse,  Materfamil-  ias,  and  Household  Divinity,  instead  ofa  field  marshal  under  Frederick  the  Great.  Restore  King  to  list  of  enemies,  and  reflect  that  new  Nurse  probably  a  lot  easier  to  find  than  new  Genius.  "