 b"I DO  not  know  exactly  'what'  it  'is,&quot;  I  but  'something'  about  a  close  and  reverent  'exposure'  to  the  work  of  Henry  James  seems  to  lead  his  com-  mentators  into  a  virtually  'manic'  use  of  quotation  marks.  I  have  recently  read-or,  rather,  'read'  until  my  eye-  lids  became  abraded  'beyond  endur-  ance'  by  incessant  typographical  'prick-  ing'-the  introduction,  by  Alma  Louise  Lowe,  to  'the  master'  's  'En-  glish  Hours.&quot;  The  edition  was  'printed  in  England,&quot;  so  the  intrusive  'marks'  are  'single.&quot;  Some  'specimens':  Because  he  listened  'with  proper  cre-  dulity'  at  Haddon  Hall,  he  seemed  to  hear  the  'ghostly  footfalls'  of  Dorothy  Vernon  and  LordJohn  Manners  'on  the  flags  of  the  castle  court.'  On  occasions  he  'did  see'  ghosts  'as  we  see  ghosts  now-  adays.'  ...  The  material  he  plucked  while  travel-  ling  accounts  in  a  large  measure  for  the  'air  of  reality'  in  James's  fiction.  ...  That  James,  the  'master,&quot;  the  celebrity  so  devoted  to  the  'art'  of  writing  ...  There  were  scores  of  other  Americans  who  felt  the  'pull'  of  Europe.  ...  He  was  reminded  of  'the  early  pages  of  &quot;Oliver  Twist&quot;  '  as  he  watched  ...  Now,  what  is  the  'point'?  Are  we  to  assume  that  'commonplace  expressions'  such  as  'air  of  reality,&quot;  'art,'  'pull,'  and  'the  early  pages  of  &quot;Oliver  Twist,&quot;  '  by  their  presumed  preappearance  in  the  'vast  body'  of  James's  prose,  have  ac-  quired  a  'magic,'  a  'special  sense,'  which  their  'unadorned'  use  would  allow  to  'slip  through  the  net&quot;?  Or  is  it  merely  that  the  'good'  Miss  Lowe  wishes  to  demonstrate  her  'fingertip  mastery'  of  'the  material&quot;?  Thinking  that  it  might  be  an  'eccentricity'  peculiar  toher,  I  turned  to  John  L.  Sweeney's  introduc-  tion  to  'The  Painter's  Eye'  and  'in  an  instant'  encountered  His  eye  and  memory  were  thus  filled  with  images  of  a  'world'  ...  long  before  discriminations  had  begun  to  'bristle.'  ...  ...  what  he  expected  of  them  in  terms  of  'subject'  and  why,  for  example,  he  'detest-  ed'  Winslow  Homer's  ...  We  have  no  conclusive  evidence  that  James  eventually  'embraced'  the  Impres-  sionists.  We  have,  however,  some  convinc-  ing  hints  that  he  learned  to  appreciate  them  and  to  utilize  their  'suggestion.'  And  Morton  Dauwen  Zabel's  in-  troduction  to  'Inthe  Cage  and  Other  ##  BUZZ  OUT  Anp  StINE  somEEROpYy,  WRAP  soMERODPDy  .  MME  serrer  our  anp  39  Tales'  yielded,  in  American  typograph-  ical  style,  a  'double  harvest':  The  &quot;germ&quot;  that  gave  James  his  sto-  ry  ...that  the  &quot;spark&quot;  of  his  tale  was  kindled  by  the  &quot;wonderment&quot;  of  his  &quot;spec-  ulation&quot;  ...  And  it  was  thus  that  his  &quot;young  woman,&quot;  the  &quot;caged  telegraphist&quot;  .  ..  Without  denying  that  in  some  'in-  stances'  an  'atom'  of  'pertinency'  may  be  glimpsed  in  this  'practice,'  'wonder-  ment'  is  nevertheless  aroused.  It  is  not  'enough'  to  observe  that  here  we  have  a  'contagion'  originating  in  the  'punctuational  excesses'  of  James's  own  'later  style.'  The  'effect'  is  'dif-  ferent.'  In  James  himself,  these  boot-  less  exclamation  marks  serve  as  a  'kind  of  spice'  to  the  'lavish  feast'  whose  most  'delicious'  ingredient  is  the  host's  visible  relish  in  the  'fare'  he  is  'setting  forth.'  Whereas  with  the  scholars  'barnacled'  to  the  underside  of  his  'stately  gliding'  reputation,  the  'marks'  are  'symptomatic  of  a  mere  'itch,'  if  for  which  an  appropriate  cure,  or  at  least  'implement  for  scratching,&quot;  can  be  located,  I  will,  in-  deed,  'be  grateful."