 b"FOR  a  long  time  I  used  to  go  to  bed  early  wondering  if  Siegfried  von  Handelskammern  would  ever  complete  his  long-awaited  memoirs  of  Saint-Germain-des-Pr\xc3\xa9s,  where  from  June,  1940,  when  he  made  his  first,  much-remarked  appearance  in  Caf\xc3\xa9  Flore,  until  August,  1944,  when  he  departed  without  having  finished  his  glass  of  fixe  (patiently  distilled  from  salvaged  boot  tops),  he  was  the  hub  of  an  unparalleled  intellectual  re-  vival.  Having  got  to  bed  early,  I  would  lie  awake  counting  the  words  in  the  re-  view  I  would  undoubtedly  be  request-  ed  to  write  and  asking  myself  if  any  critic,  even  yours  truly,  Charles  Filan-  dreux,  could  do  Handelskammern,  and  his  generation,  justice.  I  could  picture,  in  the  dark  of  my  room,  the  pale  ink  of  the  original  manuscript,  and  I  tried  to  surmise  whether  he  had  already  sold  the  ms.  and  for  how  much,  admiring,  in  retrospect,  the  extreme  refinement  of  the  handwriting  I  had  known  so  well  before  I  burned  all  the  correspon-  dence.  An  inscription  offered  itself  to  my  imagination:  &quot;To  Charles  Filan-  dreux,  who  taught  me  the  true  mean-  ing  of  'Happy  as  God  in  France,&quot;  &quot;  or,   perhaps,  &quot;To  Charles  F.  and  to  civili-  zation,  ever  gratefully,&quot;or  simply  &quot;To  C.,  who  knows  why.&quot;  My  waking  dreams  produced  the  bound  volume  (60  francs,  600  pp.,  index)  as  it  travelled  from  publisher  to  post  office,  from  postman  to  concierge,  from  one  vacated  [REDACTED]  apartment  to  another  (each  move  a  monument  to  an  altercation  with  a  long-toothed  landlord),  and  finally  arrived  at  my  present  bosky  habitation.  (See  &quot;From  Poultry  Yard  to  Playing  Field:  An  Author  Builds  a  Retreat,&quot;  C.  Filan-  dreux,  1967.)  In  reverie,  I  watched  from  my  window  as  Emile  Pagne,  the  village  mailman,  parked  his  Re-  nault  R-5  in  a  bed  of  Rheum  rhaeponti-  cum  and  tooled  up  the  driveway  on  foot,  the  publisher's  tawdry  book  envelope  leaking  its  vitals  all  over  the  gravel.  Would  I,  I  pondered,  spare  twenty  words  of  my  review  to  describe  the  cover  illustration-a  black-and-white  photo  of  the  ancient  church,  named  for  a  saint  whose  feast  day  is,  or  was,  or  used  to  be,  12  November,  with  a  swastika  stamped  over  the  eleventh-  century  bell  tower  and  dripping  red  paint,  to  indicate  to  even  the  most     absent-minded  reader  the  book's  pe-  riod  and  setting?  Ploum-Ploum,  the  philosopher-clochard,  no  longer  sits  in  warm  sunshine  on  the  church  steps.  Some  say  that  he  bought  the  whole  left-hand  side  of  Rue  Bona-  parte,  all  the  way  down  to  the  Seine,  and  retired;  others  aver  that  he  went  cheerfully  toa  pauper's  grave,  where  his  ashes  dream  of  black-market  sugar  generously  shared  with  Wolf-  Wolf,  his  gentle  canine  companion.  Should  I  recount,  with  the  quiet  humor  of  detachment,  how  Wolf-Wolf  one  day  sank  his  teeth  into  a  certain  es-  sayist-who,  although  totally  dis-  credited,  continues  his  hack  literary  appraisals  in  a  daily  newspaper  that  prudence  prevents  me  from  naming?  I  will  say  only  that  the  said  newspa-  per  appears  in  the  morning,  leaving  it  to  the  reader  to  divine  which  morn-  ing.  I  shall  speak,  of  course,  of  that  other  morning,  when  Handelskammern  first  laid  eyes  on  a  tousle-haired  lad  wear-  ing  a  scarf  wound  eight  or  nine  times  around  his  young  neck,  cheeks  flushed  with  triumph  because  he  had,  at  last,  perfected  the  opening  words  of  &quot;The  Front  Line  of  Heaven,&quot;  later  to  be  published,  with  some  revisions,  under  the  peacetime  title  &quot;Growing  Up  in  a  War.&quot;  Handelskam-  mern  came  into  the  Flore  surrounded  by  his  usual  cloud  of  toadies  and  sycophants,  one  dusting  off  his  chair  before  he  sat  down,  another  polish-  ing  his  uniform  but-  tons  with  a  sponge  dipped  in  acorn  coffee,  a  third  carrying  a  por-  table  gramophone  on  which  was  playing  the  overture  to  &quot;Car-  men.&quot;  (It  was  typical  of  Handelskammern's  tact  and  delicacy  of  spirit  that  he  would  al-  low  only  French  music  to  be  played  in  his  presence.)  When,  later,  our  ac-  quaintanceship  had  at-  tained  that  stage  of  in-  timacy  which  permits  personal  comment,  I  ventured  to  point  out  that  his  servile  flat-  terers  had  never  known  the  vital  Handelskam-  " b"mern  and  were  concerned  only  with  what  the  official  Handelskammern  had  to  offer.  &quot;Well,  why  not?&quot;  he  said  in-  dulgently,  meaning  that  a  word  from  him  and  one's  books  were  printed,  de-  spite  the  paper  shortage,  in  places  like  Bucharest,  [REDACTED]-places  seen  only  in  daydreams.  I  finished  buttering  his  bread  and  cutting  it  into  convenient  bite-sized  pieces  without  another  word.  I  knew  about  Handelskammern  long  before  our  now  legendary  meet-  ing  in  the  Flore.  Every  facet  of  that  multitudinous  personality  had  already  been  flashed  before  my  eyes.  I  knew,  for  instance,  that  the  gun  he  wore  in  a  gleaming  holster  was  in  reality  a  toy  for  blowing  soap  bubbles  (he  was  an  avowed  pacifist),  and  I  see  to  this  day  those  iridescent  symbols  of  our  hopes  and  dreams  drifting,  drifting.  I  knew  his  influence,  and  his  power.  I  knew  how  a  certain  poet,  novelist,  and  play-  wright,  later,  for  a  brief  period  of  purgatory,  a  mere  parenthesis,  and  also  a  salesman  of  dust  mops,  had  bro-  ken  down  and  wept  unashamedly  be-  cause,  owing  to  shortages,  his  mother  could  not  bake  his  usual  lemon-  flavored  birthday  cake;  and  I  knew  how  Handelskammern  with  one  quiet  phone  call  had  putthings  right,  caus-  ing  an  exquisite  lemon-flavored  cake,  with  the  requisite  number  of  candles  (forty-six,  I  believe),  to  be  delivered  to  the  poet's  door.  &quot;Well,&quot;  said  Handels-  kammern,  when  I  reminded  him  of  this  generous  gesture,  &quot;culture  some-  how  hasgot  to  be  kept  in  the  right  place.&quot;  I  remember  that  I  felt-raising  my  dazzled  eyes  from  the  now  perfect  sen-  tence  over  which  I  had  been  torturing  my  young  sensibility  all  morning-  bdbd  that  I  knew  the  man  before  me.  But,  of  course,  Handelskammern  did  not  know  me.  &quot;Who  is  that?&quot;  I  heard  him  ask.  &quot;I  don't  know,&quot;  a  certain  film  di-  rector  answered  with  some  sullenness.  &quot;'Then  find  out,&quot;  said  Handelskam-  mern,  removing  the  bubble  pipe  from  its  holster  and  placing  it  symbolically  next  to  the  gramophone,  now  playing  a  sublime  tenor  solo  from  Berlioz'  &quot;The  Trojans.&quot;  &quot;Charles  Filandreux,&quot;  said  another  untalented  hanger-on,  with  a  mean-  ingful  smile  in  my  direction.  Handelskammern  told  me,  later,  that  he  had  simply  been  eager  to  read  my  manuscript,  which  was  spread  over  three  tables,  but  had  been  afraid  of  compromising  me  by  approaching  me  while  in  uniform.  With  the  discrimi-  nation  and  wisdom  that  no  occupying  officer,  I  think,  has  ever  surpassed,  he  quietly  removed  his  uniform,  folded  it  neatly,  sent  for  a  waiter's  apron,  and,  thus  anonymously  attired,  came  over  and  introduced  himself.  The  gramo-  phone  was  playing  the  waltz  from  Gounod's  &quot;Faust.&quot;  Some  of  you,  my  readers,  have,  I  suspect,  suddenly  fallen  into  the  giddy  melancholy  of  d\xc3\xa9ja  vu.  With  a  dis-  abused  mowe,  you  are  asking  one  an-  other,  &quot;What  is  Charles  Filandreux  talking  about?  Doesn't  Filandreux  know  that  the  Occupation  Cultural  Sweepstakes  have  been  run  for  the  year?  There  were  fewer  entries  than  usual,  and  the  field  was  light.  Han-  delskammern,  the  favorite,  probably  overconfident,  did  a  little  dance  at  the  starting  post  and  dropped  his  mem-  oirs.  He  was  still  picking  the  scattered  pages  out  of  the  mud  when  Gerhard  Heller,  an  outsider,  romped  home  on  ZY  ARero   &quot;Un  Allemand  A&amp;  [REDACTED],  1940-44.&quot;  Handelskammern  glanced  up  in  time  to  see  Heller  wreathed  with  the  gar-  land  of  forget-me-nots  which  Han-  delskammern  thought  had  been  woven  for  him.  Within  the  Occupation  Cultural  Sweepstakes  Trophy  was  a  copy  of  Heller's  own  book,  inscribed  with  eager  affection  by  the  leading  critics  of  [REDACTED].  Upon  the  cover  can  be  seen  a  photograph  of  the  author,  in  an  attractive  uniform,  taken  when  he  was  Special  Leader  of  the  Propaganda  Staff  in  [REDACTED]  and  the  cogueluche  of  the  most  prestigious  literary  salons.  Yes,  but  that  was  this  year.  Next  year,  and  the  year  after  that,  and  yet  a  year  after,  there  are  new  Occupation  races  to  be  run.  My  review  is  ready.  Actually,  it  is  based  on  my  own  &quot;Soap  Bubbles  of  Cultural  Exchange:  Yes-  teryear  at  the  Flore,&quot;  some  copies  of  which  are  still  available  and  can  be  obtained  by  writing  to  Charles  Filandreux  Villa  Hybride  Borgne-sur-Louche  and  enclosing  a  postal  order  (mot  a  check)  for  one  hundred  and  eleven  francs,  a  small  booklet  of  stamps,  and  a  clean  book  envelope. "