 b"You  will  see  that  Charles  set  his  sights  high.  Intelligent  idlers  always  have,  in  order  to  justify  their  idleness  to  their  intelligence.  He  had,  in  short,  all  the  Byronic  ennui  with  neither  of  the  Byronic  outlets:  genius  and  adultery.-&quot;The  French  Lieutenant's  Woman,&quot;  by  John  Fowles.  AVING  followed  what  has  be-  H  come  my  wonted  practice,  of  late,  to  substitute  for  the  satis-  faction  of  my  blocked  Byronic  outlets  the  pleasure  of  pastry  consumption,  I  entered,  with  an  anticipatory-and  what  would  be  called,  in  a  later  and  more  Freudian  age  than  thatof  1867,  a  masturbatory-jingling  of  pocket  change,  a  confectioner's  establishment,  a  small  shop  of  the  variety  that  was  only  beginning  to  be  driven  into  dis-  tinction  by  the  giant  retailers  looming  up  in  [REDACTED];  I  say  distinction  owing  to  the  second-rate  nature  of  these  de-  partment  stores'  pastries.  My  eye  was  caught  by  a  certain  bun;  and  although  I  now  know  that  any  sweet  that  is  baked,  displayed,  and  sold  under  the  rubric  or  epithet  &quot;bun&quot;  is  not  very  much  of  a  sweet  at  all  but,  rather,  a  standard  bread  roll  embellished  with  some  of  the  trappings  familiarly  asso-  ciated  with  sweets-raisins,  sugar  glaze,  candied-fruit  morsels,  and  so  forth-and  therefore  an  item  that  an  individual  who  seeks  the  greatest  pos-  sible  enjoyment  of  his  sinfully  ingested  calories  would  scorn  as  tasting  rather  bad,  I  bought  the  bun.  It  was  only  upon  reconsideration-  or,  should  I  say,  subsequent  rumine-  tion,  the  thoughts  coinciding  as  they  did  with  a  bite  of  the  bun-some  time  and  distance  away  from  the  pastry  shop,  that  I  decided  I  did  not  want  the  bun  at  all.  Such,  indeed,  was  my  revul-  sion  at  the  bun  that  I  desired  to  be  rid  of  it  as  soon  as,  and  by  whatever  means,  possible.  It  is  in  reaction  to  such  a  strong  feeling  of  the  viscera,  whether  it  be  profound  hatred  or  mere  bun-revulsion,  that  even  the  most  moral  men  are  driven  to  immoral  acts;  and,  there  being  no  more  appropriate  receptacle  for  the  offensive  bun  with-  in  a  bearable  distance-or,  rather,  a  knowable  bearable  distance,  for  there  was,  merely  a  few  yards  away  but  hid-  den  from  sight,  a  rubbish  bin-I  de-  posited  my  tormentor  in  the  basket  of  a  bicycle  parked  close  at  hand  and  hastened  away,  the  sooner  to  put  from  both  mind  and  (what  you  would  call  in  a  later  age)  personal  space  the  bun,  the  bin,  and  the  manifold  ramifications  of  the  one's  not  having  ended  up  inside  the  other.  At  this  point,  I,  the  buyer  of  the  bun,  leave  the  story.  And  as  I  am  now  at  a  very  safe  distance  indeed  from  the  rum  bun,  I  can  adopt  the  stance  of  objective  observer  of  the  bun  and  its  unfortunate  inheritor.  I  speak  of  the  owner  of  the  bicycle,  who  returned  to  his  machine  shortly  after  my  own  departure,  and  well  beforethe  bun  would  have  grown  stale,  in  order  to  spirit  himself,  under  his  own  power,  to  a  long-awaited  lunch.  I  say  his  own  power,  but  I  must  add  that  the  bicycle,  owing  to  certain  basic  principles  of  mechanics  and  locomotion,  multiplied  that  power  several  fold.  (Here  I  omit  a  brief  explanation  of  the  mechanics  of  bicycle  locomotion  followed  by  an  en-  capsulated  social  history  of  the  bicycle,  tracing  the  spread  of  its  popularity  and  its  effect,  by  means  of  its  expansion  of  personal  speed  and  mobility,  on  Vic-  torian  culture  and  mores,  which  is  re-  tained  in  a  later  edition.  Parenthetical-  ly,  when  I  say  &quot;the&quot;  bicycle,  I  of  course  mean  bicycles  generally  and  not  the  one  to  the  bun  in  whose  basket  we  now  return.)  The  owner  of  the  bicycle-we  should  not  hesitate  to  call  him  Harry  for  our  own  expedience  (and  to  his  an-  noyance,  since  his  name  is  Edward)-  Harry,  was  quite  hungry,  a  state  that  had  the  peculiar  effect  of  heightening  his  senses  generally.  It  was  thus  that  he  noticed,  almost  immediately,  a  small  irregularity  in  the  status  of  the  bicycle  (his  own,  not  bicycles  gen-  erally)  as  he  had  left  it:  the  status  gwo  ante,  if  you  will.  There  was  a  bun  in  his  basket.  This  fact,  the  conclusion  of  a  short  but  systematic  process  of  analy-  sis  and  examination  (commencing  with  the  unwrapping  of  the  bun  from  its  only  slightly  grease-stained  paper  andending  with  a  close  scrutiny  of     the  doughy  quality  of  the  flesh  which  finally  scotched,  for  Harry,  any  ques-  tion  as  to  the  bun-ness  of  the  bun),  was  not  without  some  significance  for  the  hungry  man.  For  Harry,  though  he  was  not  particularly  fond  of  buns  as  such,  saw  in  this  random  event,  whose  proximate  cause  eluded,  could  only  elude,  him,  a  palliative,  a  felicitous  answer  to  the  hunger  in  his  being.  But  it  was  a  flawed  answer:  the  flaw,  appearing  first  as  a  void,  the  non-  presence  of  matter  crystallizing  in  the  form  of  a  bite.  This,  even  in  his  hunger,  Harry  could  neither  deny  nor  circumvent.  The  bun  had  been  bitten  into,;  Harry  knew  this  as  surely  as  he  knew  another,  corollary  fact,  a  fact  of  which  his  forebears  would  have  been  completely  ignorant  but  of  which  Harry  himself  was  not,  owing  to  the  spread  of  lay  medical  knowledge  in  the  Victorian  age:  contagious  germs,  potent  bacteria  antipathetic  to  the  human  constitution  thrive  in  the  sa-  liva  of  the  human  mouth.  And  Har-  ry  knew,  as  his  dimly  aware  ances-  tors  might  have  guessed  and  his  hy-  per-aware  descendants  in  our  own  day  would  know,  that  where  a  mouth  has  bitten,  some  saliva  will  remain.  Thinking  thus  (or  supposing  that  he  thought  thus,  for  do  we  not  assume,  in  the  absence  of  evidence  to  the  con-  trary,  that  a  man  tends  to  behave  ac-  cording  to  rational  principles?),  Harry  threw  the  bun  in  the  bin.  Harry,  you  see,  knew  that  it  was  there.  UT  perhaps  we  have  given  Ed-  ward  short  shrift  in  failing  to  credit  him  with  creative  thinking.  Could  he  not  have  considered,  for  ex-  ample,  cutting  away  the  bitten  part  and  then  eating  the  bun?  Let  us  return  Edward  to  the  initial  dilemma,  with  a  slight  adjustment  in  the  facts:  it  is  a  perfectly  formed,  unbitten  bun  that  faces  Edward.  And  suddenly  Edward  can  no  longer  act  on  rational  princi-  ples,  on  a  reasoned  hypothesis  based  on  a  sensible  application  of  fashionable  scientific  knowledge.  Edward  could  see  nothing  wrong  with  the  bun.  And  he  was  hungry.  Yet  there  was  some-  thing  too  easy,  too  suggestively  provi-  dential  in  the  bun's  being  there  in  his  basket  on  that  hungry  afternoon.  A  dark  foreboding,  a  feeling  that  his  fate  somehow  turned  on  the  decision  before  him,  made  his  stomach  tighten.  The  bun  looked  more  sumptuous  with  every  passing  second.  What  could  be  wrong  " b"   with  it?  Why  would  a  perfectly  good  bun  be  abandoned?  And  if  a  perfectly  good  bunwould  not  be,  what  micro-  scopic  evils  lay  masked  beneath  the  sugar  glaze,  embedded  like  the  raisin?  It  is  at  a  moment  like  this  that  a  man  wonders  whether  God  is  malev-  olent,  like  a  wanton  schoolboy  pass-  ing  a  tainted  bun  to  his  mates.  To  a  man  like  Edward,  born  between  two  worlds,  one-of  faith-dead,  the     other  struggling  to  be  born,  it  is  the  hope  that  springs  from  hunger  which  alone  sustains  the  possibility  that  God  is  good.  But  the  more  rational  hunger,  emanating  from  the  brain,  the  hunger  that  seeks  answers,  analyzes,  discovers,  and  in  the  end  only  brings  new  un-  certainties-this  rationality  would  tell  our  Edward  that  a  good  God  is  a  predictable  one:  He  would  not  extend  a  bun  of  uncertainty.  Thus  Edward  is  poised,  as  his  whole  generation  is  poised,  on  a  para-  pet  of  indecision.  For  what  he  doesn't  know-though  can  we  infairness  ex-  pect  him  to&quot;  -is  that  God,  if  He  exists  at  all,  is  indifferent,  and  therefore  does  not  foreordain,  or  establish  an  answer  to  be  divined.  Our  generation,  a  thou-  sand  or  more  Edwards  later,  has  had  to  bite  the  bun.  "