 b"IN  the  picture,  only  the  man  is  look-  I  ing  at  the  camera.  The  baby  in  the  chair,  out  on  the  lawn,  is  looking  in  another  direction,  not  at  his  father.  His  father  has  a  grip  on  a  collie-  trying,  no  doubt,  to  make  the  dog  turn  its  head  toward  the  lens.  The  dog  looks  away,  no  space  separating  its  snout  from  the  white  border.  I  wonder  why,  in  those  days,  photographs  had  borders  that  looked  as  if  they  had  been  cut  with  pinking  shears.  The  collie  is  dead.  The  man  with  a  pompadour  of  curly  brown  hair  and  with  large,  sloping  shoulders  was  alive  the  last  time  I  heard.  The  baby  grew  up  and  became  my  husband,  and  now  is  no  longer  married  to  me.  I  am  trying  to  follow  his  line  of  vision  in  the  picture.  Obviously,  he'd  had  enough  of  paying  attention  to  hisf2-  ther  or  to  the  dog  that  day.  It  is  a  picture  of  a  baby  gazing  into  the  dis-  tance.  I  have  a  lot  of  distinct  memories  of  things  that  happened  while  I  was  mar-  ried,  but  lately  I've  been  thinking  about  two  things  that  are  similar,  al-  though  they  have  nothing  in  common.  We  lived  on  thetop  floor  of  a  brown-  stone.  When  we  decided  to  separate  and  I  moved  out,  John  changed  the  lock  on  the  door.  When  I  came  back  to  take  my  things,  there  was  no  way  to  get  them.  I  went  away  and  thought  about  it  until  I  didn't  feel  angry  any-  more.  By  then  it  was  winter,  and  cold  leaked  in  my  windows.  I  had  my  daughter,  and  other  things,  to  think  about.  In  the  cold,  though,  walking  around  the  apartment  in  a  sweater  most  people  would  have  thought  thick  enough  to  wear  outside,  or  huddling  on  the  sofa  under  an  old  red-and-  brown  afghan,  I  would  start  feeling  romantic  about  my  husband.  One  afternoon-it  was  February  13th,  the  day  before  Valentine's  Day  -I  had  a  couple  of  drinks  and  put  on  my  long  green  coat  with  the  huge  hood  which  made  me  look  like  a  monk  and  went  to  the  window  and  saw  that  the  snow  had  melted  on  the  sidewalk:  I  could  get  away  with  wearing  my  comfortable  rubber-soled  sandals  with  thick  wool  socks.  So  I  went  out  and  stopped  at  Sheridan  Square  to  buy  &quot;Hamlet&quot;  and  flipped  through  until  I  found  what  I  was  looking  for.  Then  I  went  to  our  old  building  and  buzzed  Larry.  He  lives  in  the  basement-  what  is  called  a  garden  apartment.  He  opened  the  door  and  unlocked  the  high  black  iron  gate.  My  husband  had  al-  ways  said  that  Larry  looked  and  acted  like  Loretta  Young;  he  was  always  exuberant,  he  had  puffy  hair  and  crin-  kly  eyes,  and  he  didn't  look  as  if  he belonged  to  either  sex.  Larry  was  sur-  prised  to  see  me.  I  can  be  charming  when  I  want  to  be,  so  I  acted  slightly  bumbly  and  apologetic  and  smiled  to  let  him  know  that  what  I  was  asking  was  a  silly  thing:  could  I  stand  in  his  garden  for  a  minute  and  call  outa  poem  to  my  husband?  I  saw  Larry  looking  at  my  hands,  moving  in  the  pockets  of  my  coat.  The  page  torn  from  &quot;Hamlet&quot;  was  in  one  pocket,  the  rest  of  the  book  in  the  other.  Larry  laughed.  How  could  my  husband  hear  me,  he  asked.  It  was  February.  There  were  storm  windows.  But  he  let  me  in,  and  I  walked  down  his  long,  narrow  hallway,  through  the  back  room  that  he  used  as  an  office,  to  the  door  that  led  out  to  the  back  garden.  I  pushed  open  the  door,  and  his  gray  poodle  came  yapping  up  to  my  ankles.  It  looked  like  a  cactus,  with  maple  leaves  stuck  in  its  coat.  I  picked  up  a  little  stone-Larry  had  smallrocks  bordering  his  walk-  way,  all  touching,  as  if  they  were  a  chain.  I  threw  the  stone  at  my  hus-  band's  fourth-floor  bedroom  window  and  hit  it-tomk!-on  the  very  first  try.  Blurrily,  I  watched  the  look  of  puzzlement  on  Larry's  face.  My  real  attention  was  on  my  husband's  face,  when  it  appeared  at  the  window,  full  of  rage,  then  wonder.  I  looked  at  the  torn-out  page  and  recited,  lilting,  ly,  [REDACTED]'s  song:  &quot;  'Tomorrow  is  Saint  Valentine's  day/  All  in  the  morning  betime,/And  I  a  maid  at  your  window,/To  be  your  Valentine.&quot;  &quot;  &quot;Are  you  insane!?&quot;  John  called  down  to  me.  It  was  a  shout,  real-  ly,  but  his  voice  hung  thin  in  the  air.  It  floated  down.  &quot;I  did  it,&quot;  Larry  said,  coming  out,  shiv-  ering,  cowering  as  he  looked  up  to  the  fourth  floor.  &quot;I  let  her  in.&quot;  I  could  smell  jasmine  when  the  wind  blew.  I  had  put  on  too  much  perfume.  Even  if  he  did  take  me  in,  he'd  back  off;  he'd  never  let  me  be  his  valentine.  What  he  noticed,  of  course,  when  he  came  downstairs  to  lead  me  out  of  the  garden,  sec-  onds  later,  was  the  Scotch  on  my  breath.  " b"&quot;This  is  all  wrong,&quot;  I  said,  as  he  pulled  me  by  the  hand  past  Larry,  who  stood  holding  his  barking  poodle.  &quot;I  only  had  two  Scotches,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  just  realized  when  the  wind  blew  that  I  smell  like  a  flower  garden.&quot;  &quot;You  bet  it's  all  wrong,&quot;  he  said,  squeezing  my  hand  so  hard  it  almost  broke.  Then  he  shook  off  my  hand  and  walked  up  the  steps,  went  in,  and  slammed  the  doorbehind  him.  I  watched  a  hairline  crack  leap  across  all  four  panes  of  glass  at  thetop  of  the  door.  The  other  thing  happened  in  hap-  pier  times,  when  we  were  visiting  my  sister,  [REDACTED],  on  Twenty-third  Street.  It  was  the  first  time  we  had  met  Dan,  the  man  she  was  engaged  to,  and  we  had  brought  a  bottle  of  champagne.  We  drank  her  wine  first,  and  ate  her  cheese  and  told  stories  and  heard  sto-     ries  and  smoked  a  joint,  and  sometime  after  midnight  my  husband  went  to  the  refrigerator  and  gotout  our  wine  -Spanish  champagne,  in  a  black  bot-  tle.  He  pointed  the  bottle  away  from  him,  and  we  all  squinted,  silently  watching.  At  the  same  instant  that  the  cork  popped,  as  we  were  all  saying  &quot;Hooray!&quot;  or  &quot;That  does  it!&quot;  -what-  ever  we  were  saying-we  heard  glass  raining  down,  and  John  suddenly  crouched,  and  then  we  looked  above  him  tosee  a  hole  in  the  skylight,  and  through  the  hole  black  sky.  I\xe2\x80\x99VE  just  told  these  stories  to  my  daughter,  Linda,  who  is  six.  She  used  to  like  stories  to  end  with  a  moral,  like  fairy  tales,  but  now  she  thinks  that's  kid  stuff.  She  still  wants  to  know  what  stories  mean,  but  now  she  wants  me  to  tell  her.  The  point  of  the  two  storiee-well,  I  don't  know  what  the  point  is,  I'm  always  telling  her.  That  he  broke  the  glass  by  mis-  take,  and  that  the  cork  broke  the  glass  by  a  miracle.  The  point  is  that  broken  glass  is  broken  glass.  &quot;That's  a  joke  ending,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;It's  dumb.&quot;  She  frowns.  I  cop  out,  too  tired  to  think,  and  then  tell  her  another  part  of  the  story  to  distracther:  Uncle  Dan  and  Aunt  [REDACTED]  told  the  superintendent  that  the  hole  must  have  come  from  some-  thing  that  fell  from  above.  He  knew  they  were  lying-nothing  was  above  them-but  what  could  he  say'  He  asked  them  whether  they  thought  per-  haps  meteorites  shrank  to  the  size  of  gumballs  falling  through  New  York's  polluted  air.  He  hated  not  only  his  tenants  but  the  whole  city.  She  watches  me  digress.  She  reaches  " b"for  the  cologne  on  her  night  table  and  lifts  her  long  blond  hair,  and  I  spray  her  neck.  She  takes  the  bottle  and  sprays  her  wrists,  rubs  them  together,  holds  outher  wrists  for  me  to  smell.  I  make  a  silly  face  and  pretend  to  be  dazedbysuch  a  wonderful  smell.  I  stroke  her  hair  until  she  is  silent,  and  tiptoe  out,  still  moving  as  if  I'm  walk-  ing  through  broken  glass.  NCE  a  week,  for  acouple  of  hours,  I  read  to  a  man  named  Andy,  who  is  blind.  In  the  year  I've  been  doing  it,  he  and  I  have  sort  of  become  friends.  He  usually  greets  me  with  something  like  &quot;So  what's  new  with  your  life?&quot;  He  sits  behind  his  desk  and  I  sit  beside  it,  in  a  chair.  This  is  the  way  a  teacher  and  pupil  should  sit,  and  I've  fallen  into  the  pattern  of  letting  him  ask.  He  gets  up  to  open  the  window.  It's  always  too  hot  in  his  little  office.  His  movements  are  exaggerated,  like  a  bird's:  the  quickly  cocked  head,  the  way  he  grips  the  edge  of  his  desk  when  he's  bored.  He  grips  the  edge,  releases  his  hold,  grabs  again,  like  a  parrot  shifting  on  its  bar.  Andy  has  never  seen  a  bird.  He  has  an  eight-year-old  daughter,  who  likes  to  describe  things  to  him,  although  she  is  a  prankster  and  sometimes  deliberately  lies,  he  has  told  me.  He  buys  her  things  from  the  joke  shop  on  the  corner  of  the  street  where  he  works.  He  takes  home  little  pills  that  will  make  drinks  bubble  over,  buzzers  to  conceal  in  the  palm  of  your  hand,  little  black  plastic  flies  to  freeze  in  ice  cubes,  rubber  eyeglass  rims  at-  tached  to  a  fat  nose  and  a  bushy  mus-  tache.  &quot;Daddy,  now  I'm  wearing  my  big  nose,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;Daddy,  I  puta  black  fly  in  your  ice  cube,so  spit  it  out  if  it  sinks  in  your  drink,  all  right?&quot;  My  daughter  and  I  have  gone  to  two  dinners  at  their  house.  My  daughter  thinks  that  his  daughter  is  a  little  weird.  The  last  time  we  visited,  when  the  girls  were  playing  and  Andy  was  washing  dishes  his  wife  showed  me  the  hallway  she  had  just  wallpa-  pered.  It  took  her  forever  to  decide  on  the  wallpaper,  she  told  me.  We  stood  there,  dwarfed  by  wall-  paper  imprinted  with  the  trunks  of  shiny  sil-  ver  trees  that  her  hus-  band  would  never  see.  What's  new  with  me?  My  divorce  is  final.  Y  husband  re-  members  the  cir-  cumstances  of  the  pho-  tograph.  I  told  him  it  was  impossible-he  was  an  infant.  No,  he  was  a  child  when  the  picture  was  taken,  he  said-he  just  looked  small  because  he  was  slumped  in  the  chair.  He  remembers  it  all  distinctly.  Rufus,  the  dog,  was  there,  and  his  father,  and  he  was  looking  slightly  up-  ward  because  that  was  where  his  mother  was,  holding  the  camera.  I  was  amazed  that  I  had  made  a  mystery  of  something  that  had  such  a  simple  answer.  It  is  a  picture  of  a  baby  looking  at  its  mother.  For  the  mil-  lionth  time  he  asks  why  must  I  make  myself  morose,  why  call  in  the  middle  of  the  night.  Linda  is  asleep.  I  sit  on  the  edge  of  her  bed  in  the  half-darkness,  tempting  fate,  fidgeting  with  a  dome-shaped  pa-  perweight  with  bursts  of  red  color  in-  side,  tossing  it  in  the  air.  One  false  move  and  she  will  wake  up.  One  mis-  take  and  glass  shatters.  Ilike  the  smoothness  of  it,  the  heaviness  as  it  slaps  into  my  palm  over  and  over.  Today  when  I  went  to  Andy,  he  was  sitting  on  his  window  ledge,  with  his  arms  crossed  over  hischest.  He  had  been  uptown  at  a  meeting  that  morn-  ing,  where  a  man  had  come  up  to  him  and  said,  &quot;Be  grateful  for  the  cane.  Everybody  who  doesn't  take  hold  of  something  has  something  take  hold  of  them.&quot;  Andy  tells  me  this,  and  we  are  both  silent.  Does  he  want  me  to  tell  him,  the  way  Linda  wants  me  to  sum-  marize  stories,  what  I  think  it  means?  Since  Andy  and  I  are  adults,  I  answer  my  silent  question  with  another  ques-  tion:  What  do  you  do  with  a  shard  of  sorrow? "