 b"EVEN  before  the  tiny  baby  was  E  born,  its  mother  hired  a  sitter  to  prepare  for  the  days  when  she'd  need  one.  She  told  the  sitter,  &quot;The  baby's  in  the  living  room,  but  it's  real  small.  If  you  don't  see  it,  don't  worry.&quot;  Then  the  mother  pretended  to  leave,  and  hid  in  the  bushes  outside  the  living-room  window,  watching  the  sitter's  every  move.  The  tiny  baby  was  sotiny  that  its  mother  never  looked  pregnant.  And  when  it  was  born  it  took  a  long  time  for  the  doctor  to  find  it.  If  it  had  wings,  it  would  have  been  a  goldfinch  or  achickadee.  Primitives  in  the  community  who  heard  of  the  tiny  baby  joked  that  it  was  small  be-  cause  its  father  was  far  away.  &quot;Like  a  dot  on  the  horizon,&quot;  they  said.  The  mother  feared  for  the  tiny  baby,  feared  it  would  see  every  carpeted  room  as  a  prairie  strewn  with  monuments,  huge  and  upholstered,  every  tree  as  a  green  net  of  frangible  light,  every  flower  asa  wound  in  the  air.  So  she  dressed  the  baby  in  a  cat  suit,  with  the  soft  gray  stripes  of  a  tabby,  and  sat  in  the  after-  noon  sun,  watching  it  bound  and  roll  in  the  grass.  Soon  she  doubted  that  such  a  deception  would  insure  the  baby's  safe  passage  into  adulthood.  She  worried  about  the  blades  of  grass,  the  thorns  of  bushes,  the  tumultuous  ad-  vances  of  weather,  to  say  nothing  of  the  advances-caterwauling,  indis-  creet,  brutishly  fickle-of  the  neigh-  borhood  toms.  The  tiny  baby's  mother  shuddered.  She  thought  of  removing  the  cat  suit,  but  did  nothing  until  the  baby  killed  a  mouse.  Then  the  suit  came  off.  As  everyone  knows,  a  mother's  love  for  her  child  lives  in  that  lush  conjunction  of  selfless  concern  and  undisguised  identification.  It  rises  above  chance  in  its  easy  and  expert  acceptance  of  duty.  Its  destiny  extends  beyond  the  mute  scrutiny  of  Eros.  Nothing  compares  with  it.  By  con-  trast,  the  formal  shenanigans  that  pass  between  a  man  and  a  woman  are  the  mere  stuff  of  comedy.  The  mother  of  the  tiny  baby  obeyed  the  transcendent  obligations  of  her  sex  with  unalterable  devotion.  She  tied  the  baby  to  the  tail  of  a  kite  but  never  let  go  of  the  string;  shekept  the  baby  in  her  purse  so  she  wouldn't  lose  it.  At  home,  she  put  the  baby  in  a  little  chair  on  the  dining-  room  table,  surrounded  by  roses.  Would  the  tiny  baby  become  a  Holly-  39  wood  star,  spreading  its  light  in  every  room?  Would  it  rise  to  the  top  of  Australian  society?  Would  it  join  the  Mormon  Church,  sit  in  the  celestial  room,  and  be  reproduced,  by  mirrors,  into  eternity?  It  is  well  to  consider  the  fortunes  of  the  loved.  They  move  through  the  splendors  ofhotel  lobbies,  they  hang  around  pools  in  desert  re-  sorts,  they  read  best-sellers  in  subways  and  trains.  They  are  never  alone.  Now,  consider  the  tiny  baby  years  hence.  A  smallish  woman  with  blue,  beady  eyes,  watching  the  street  for  a  sight  of  her  favorite  hairdo.  When  she  sees  it-the  long  black  tresses  forming  a  castle  of  hair-she  will  imagine  it  on  herself.  She  sits  in  a  flow-  er-print  dress.  Her  thin  legs  crossed,  the  tips  of  her  shoes  hardly  reaching  the  ground,  she  suddenly,  in  barely  au-  dible  tones,  sings  a  song  about  rain  fall-  ing  and  a  man  on  a  bicycle,  hurrying  home.  The  man's  wife  leans  from  a  window,  watching  him,  but  is  distract-  ed  by  the  noisy  appearance  of  seagulls.  The  smallish  woman  gets  up.  The  train  has  left.  The  day  keeps  echo-  ing  around  her.  Everything  is  price-  less,  she  thinks,  Death  will  not  have  me.  That  is  the  storyof  the  tiny  baby. "