 b"RONALD COLMAN was  not  the  R  screen  star  who  graced  such  films  as  &quot;If  I  Were  King&quot;  and  &quot;A  Double  Life.&quot;  [REDACTED]  was  the  disparaging  name  he  gave  his  fifth-floor  walkup  apartment  on  East  Sixth  Street  of  Avenue  A  in  Manhat-  tan.  He  had  adopted  the  name  Ronald  Colman  as  the  result  of  a  fateful  en-  counter  with  Mr.  Ronald  Colman  of  [REDACTED],  New  York.  The  son  of  Irish  immigrants,  Mr.  Colman  was  a  wholesale  chemicals-and-dyes  sales-  man  who  never  married,  never  caused  trouble  or  stood  out  from  his  fellow-  citizens,  except  inadvertently,  and  passed  away  in  1973.  One  day  in  No-  vember,  1963,  shortly  before  his  re-  tirement  from  the  chemicals-and-dyes  company,  Mr.Colman  crossed  Four-  teenth  Street  at  Seventh  Avenue,  in  [REDACTED].  The  man  who  was  walk-  ing  ahead  of  him,  cradling  a  transistor  radio  at  his  ear,  stopped  inhis  tracks  and  began  shouting  incoherently  and  weeping.  Mr.  Colman,  fearful  at  first  that  the  man  had  taken  leave  of  his  senses,  soon  joined  the  other  pedestri-  ans  in  the  vicinity,  crying  and  beating  his  temples  with  his  fists,  as  vehicular  traffic  came  to  a  halt  and  everyone  mourned  the  newly  fallen  President,  John  F.  Kennedy.  Beside  him  at  the  curb  on  the  south-  east  corner  of  Fourteenth  Street  stood  a  twenty-two-year-old  woman  named  Rosa  Antinori  and  her  four-year-old  son,  Carlo.  Newly  arrived  in  [REDACTED]  from  the  Abruzzi  countryside  and  un-  able  to  speak  a  word  of  English,  they  were  terrified  by  the  violent  gestures  that  suddenly  erupted  around  them.  People  dropped  shopping  bags  and  other  belongings  and  pitched  about  as  if  on  the  deck  of  a  storm-tossed  ship  at  sea.  Carlo  was  trampled  by  a  trio  of  wild-looking  black  women  with  panic-  stricken  eyes.  Rosa  attempted  to  make  sense  of  what  was  happening,  tugging  at  elbows  and  asking,  &quot;Che  cose?&quot;  Carlo  implored  her  to  explain  what  was  taking  place.  Without  thinking,  she  spoke  aloud  the  words  &quot;Ronald  Colman&quot;  in  a  thick  Italian  accent,  almost  as  if  they  might  coax  meaning  out  of  theuproar.  She  had  noticed  these  words  stamped  in  gold  block  let-  ters  on  the  bulky  sample  case  that  the  salesman,  in  his  grief,  had  dropped  beside  her  on  the  sidewalk.  Soon  they  were  swept  away  by  the  animated  crowd,  but  not  before  Carlo  fastened  on  these  syllables  and  repeated  them  as  he  and  his  mother  made  their  way  into  the  darkness  of  the  subway  station  to  return  to  their  tenement  apartment  on  Division  Street.  Again  he  asked  what  was  happening  to  them.  Her  lack  of  response  only  succeeded  in  making  his  face  turn  white.  His  body  went  rigid  and  he  repeated  &quot;Ronald  Colman&quot;  over  and  over  in  a  stubborn  monotone  as  they  held  each  other  tightly  on  the  packed  subway  car.  Rosa  had  come  to  [REDACTED]  to  escape  the  memory  of  her  husband,  Giuseppe,  who  had  died  in  a  farm-related  acci-  dent  outside  the  town  of  Sulmona.  Survival  had  been  difficult  enough  up  to  this  point,  since  the  only  people  she  could  turn  to  were  the  Mastrocettis,  her  husband's  distant  cousins,  who  lived  in  Paterson,  New  Jersey.  Her  work  as  a  seamstress  in  a  non-union  shop  necessitated  long  hours  away  from  home,  and  Rosa  found  she  no  longer  could  cope  with  a  child.  In  the  ensuing  their  situation  deteri-  orated  to  the  point  where,  one  snowy  morning  in  February,  1964,  Rosa  agreed  with  her  husband's  cousins'  plan  to  surrender  the  child  for  adop-  tion.  (Later  she  would  marry  a  man  named  John  Loviglio  and  move  to  [REDACTED],  where  she  gave  birth  to  other  children  and  forced  herself  to  forget.)  Carlo  moved  in  with  the  Meyer  Frankenfeld  family  in  the  [REDACTED],  join-  ing  six  Jewish  brothers,  younger  as  well  as  older  than  he,  whose  names  and  faces  he  sometimes  could  not  keep  straight.  After  an  initial  period  of  es-  trangement  he  felt  accepted  by  this  busy,  prosperous,  and  curiously  de-  tached  family.  He  attended  school  and  helped  at  Mr.  Frankenfeld's  string  of  dry-cleaning  plants.  The  onset  of  pu-  berty  seemed  to  disturb  him,  however.  He  ceased  to  communicate  except  for  outbursts  of  surly  negativity,  which  repulsed  his  surrogate  parents  to  the  extent  that  they  did  nothing  to  pursue  him  when  one  day  at  the  start  of  the  tenth  grade  he  packed  a  suitcase  with  some  clothes  and  ran  away.  Moving  to  [REDACTED],  he  survived  as  a  dish-  washer,  delivery  boy,  and  handyman, never  lasting  more  than  a  few  months  at  any  job,  because  of  his  anti-social  behavior.  HE  mid-1970s  found  Carlo  liv-  ing  on  East  Sixth  Street  under  the  name  Ronald  Colman,  selling  veg-  etables  out  of  a  small  storefront  on  Seventh  Street  that  he  rented  from  a  man  named  Lon  Kotman,  who  was  descended  from  Silesian  peasants.  As  Lon  understood  it,  the  Kotmans  had  migrated  in  1889  from  the  town  of  Ostrava,  then  part  of  the  Austro-Hun-  garian  Empire,  to  southwestern  Penn-  sylvania,  where  they  bought  farmland.  After  his  discharge  from  the  Army,  in  1957,  Lon  left  Uniontown  for  New  York  City.  He  operated  a  restaurant  until  he  saved  enough  money  to  buy  two  buildings  on  Seventh  Street  with  several  business  associates.  Lon's  grandfather,  Karl  Kotman,  though  purportedly  Silesian,  actually  was  from  Bukovina,  in  the  [REDACTED],  and  a  Jew,  who  hid  this  fact  for  five  years  from  his  wife,  the  former  Mina  Leventhal,  a  raven-haired  girl  he  met  in  Brno  in  1883.  Mina,  headstrong  and  intractable,  in  revolt  against  her  impossibly  strict  shopkeeper  parents,  Teufel  and  Elena  Leventhal,  acted  the  rebel  during  her  adolescence  and  mar-  ried  Karl  principally  to  infuriate  her  parents,  since  at  the  time  everyone  be-  lieved  that  he  was  not  Jewish,  Actu-  ally,  Karl  Kotman  had  been  born  Lev  Koppelman.  After  they  had  moved  to  the  United  [REDACTED],  Karl  and  Mina  used  to  laugh  about  those  days,  although  they  did  not  return  to  the  religion  of  their  youth,  and  raised  their  children  as  Roman  Catholics.  But  Karl  never  revealed  to  her  the  reason  he  had  changed  his  name  and  concealed  his  background:  not  from  the  fearof  religious  persecution  com-  mon  at  the  time  but  rather  from  em-  barrassment.  He  was  mortified  by  the  memory  of  the  poverty  he  had  endured  as  a  child  in  Bukovina  and  the  shame  of  being  raised  in  a  broken  home.  His  father,  Moise,  had  abandoned  his  young  wife  and  their  three  children  in  the  tiny  hamlet  of  Chaldowywe,  near  [REDACTED],  in  1868,  running  away  with  an  itinerant  theatrical  troupe  &quot;direct  from  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],&quot;  composed  for  the  most  part  of  alcoholic  former  mu-  sic-hall  singers  from  [REDACTED].  After  unsavory  adventures  involving  local  theatrical  producers  and  constabu-  lary  throughout  Central  Europe,  Moise  arrived  in  [REDACTED]  in  March,  1871,  with  two  of  the  original  " b"members  of  the  troupe,  just  in  time  tofind  himself  hurled  into  the  dangerous  days  and  nights  of  the  Par-  is  Commune.  Quickly  adding  to  the  little  French  he  had  ac-  quired  while  with  the  troupe,  Moise  survived  the  Commune  by  abandoning  his  life  as  a  fledgling  actor  and  melting  into  the  an-  cient  Jewish  community  on  the  Rue  des  Rosiers,  in  the  Marais.  With  the  onset  of  the  Third  Republic  and  the  return  of  relative  nor-  mality  tocivic  life,  Moise  settled  down  on  the  Rue  du  Temple,  opening  a  tailor  shop  under  the  name  Moise  Remberg.  After  marriage  to  Hermoine  Solas,  a  young  4672616e6365ian  Jewess  from  an  established  family,  he  re-  turned  to  carpentry-the  love  of  his  early  youth-  and  organized  an  atelier  specializing  in  the  manu-  facture  and  repair  of  fine  furniture.  The  business  prospered.  Soon  Moise  Remberg  was  a  successful  member  of  the  4672616e6365ian  haute  bourgeoisie,  known  and  respected  outside  the  close-knit,  isolated  Jewish  community.  Parlaying  funds  from  his  commercial  enterprises  into  real  estate  by  means  of  contacts  he  had  made  with  local  politicians,  before  the  end  of  the  century  he  became  one  of  the  wealthiest  men  in  [REDACTED].  His  only  disappointment  in  life  was  the  inability  of  Hermoine  to  bear  more  than  one  son;  young  Leon  Remberg  was  not  suited  for  management  of  the  extensive,  rather  complicated  Remberg  business  ventures.  Though  quite  intelligent,  from  an  early  age  Leon  had  shown  not  the  slightest  interest  in  the  aggressive  be-  havior  of  normal  boyhood,  preferring  instead  to  inhabit  the  world  of  his  imagination.  He  grew  up  with  his  col-  lections  of  stamps  and  toys,  venturing  out  of  the  house  only  to  school  and  to  the  numerous  museums  of  [REDACTED].  Above  all  he  loved  the  National  Con-  servatory  of  Arts  and  Crafts,  on  the  Rue  Saint-Martin,  so  near  where  he  lived  that  he  stopped  there  almost  daily  on  his  way  home  from  school.  He  was  fascinated  by  the  exhibits  and  would  stand  for  hours  in  front  of  Foucault's  pendulum,  which  demonstrated  the  ro-  tationof  the  earth,  or  in  the  room  full     of  wonderful  automata,  such  as  Marie  Antoinette's  clockwork  dulcimer-play-  ing  puppet,  which  he  was  secretly  con-  vinced  he  resembled.  Leon  was  a  withdrawn  boy  but  also  a  stubborn  one,  and  as  he  matured,  he  took  an  almost  perversepleasure  in  doing  whatever  he  knew  would  frus-  trate  or  disappoint  his  father.  By  the  time  he  was  twenty,  he  had  passed  with  surprising  ease  through  a  range  of  dissolute  activities  about  which  his  father,  never  having  exposed  himself  to  them,  could  only  generalize  in  a  negative  fashion.  The  first  years  of  this  century  saw  Leon  livingalone,  ignored  and  finally  disowned  by  his  family  after  his  scan-  dalous  attempt  to  blackmail  one  of  Louis  nephews.  He  had  be-  come  obsessed  with  the  fledgling  tech-  nology  of  motion  pictures  and  had  hoped  somehow  to  seize  control  of  the  Lumi\xc3\xa9re  machine  by  threatening  to  expose  thesexual  irregularities  of  this  nephew.  Instead,  Leon  found  himself,  for  the  first  time,  alone  and  without  means  of  support.  He  survived  for  sev-  eral  years  among  the  nocturnal  idio-  syncrasies  of  life  along  the  boulevards  below  Place  Pigalle.  In  the  early  morning  of  July  11,  1912,  he  was  found  dead  in  the  courtyard  of  his  hotel,  a  crumbling  structure  off  the   Boulevard  Saint-Denis,  after  having  persuaded  a  young  English  traveller  to  accompany  him  to  his  room.  The  Englishman,  John  Farrell,  of  [REDACTED],  the  son  of  a  hardworking  cutler  of  modest  means,  recently  had  fled  to  [REDACTED]  to  escape  a  gambling  debt.  He  was  living  fromday  to  day  in  a  state  of  foreboding  brought  on  not  so  much  by  the  money  he  owed  as  by  the  uncomfortable  feeling  that  he  did  not  know  himself.  His  adventure  at  the  gambling  tablein  Brighton  had  upset  him;  always  believing  that  his  luck  was  about  to  change,  he  had  continued  to  place  bets  long  after  he  should  have  quit.  He  would  never  forget  the  look  of  pity  in  the  eyesof  the  other  men  at  the  table  as  that  evening  had  drawn  to  a  close.  It  had  perplexed  and  infuriated  him.  Without  a  penny  tohis  name,  and  speaking  almost  no  French,  he  was  gratified  by  the  offer  of  temporary  shelter  from  a  sympathetic  older  man.  When  Leon  Remberg  could  not  con-  tain  himself  and  revealed  thetrue  na-  tureof  his  interest,  Farrell  was  over-  come  with  rage  and,  without  realizing  what  he  was  doing,  stabbed  him  in  the  chest.  As  Leon  fell  to  the  courtyard  pavement,  Farrell  came  to  his  senses.  His  only  hope  lay  in  flight.  Luck  seemed  to  be  withhim,  and  before  the  morning  was  out,  he  had  robbed  a  " b"\n\nyoung  woman  at  knife  point  and  boarded  the  train  to  Calais.  He  re-  turned  to  [REDACTED]  and  settled  in  Lon-  don's  East  End,where  he  was  work-  ing  as  an  apprentice  lorry  mechanic  under  the  name  Roger  Corbett  when  the  First  World  War  erupted  in  Eu-  rope.  Although  no  one  had  seen  the  murder  take  place  and  it  was  never  solved,  Farrell  did  not  know  this,  and  he  could  not  forget  what  had  hap-  pened.  In  his  determination  to  avoid  being  sent  to  [REDACTED]  as  a  soldier,  he  obtained  forged  identity  papers,  using  a  second  alias,  Frederick  [REDACTED],  and  migrated  to  [REDACTED]  just  before  Great  [REDACTED]  entered  the  war,  leaving  be-  hind  him  a  girl  named  Mary  Chester,  who  was  pregnant  with  their  child.  MARY  CHursTEr  grew  up  on  a  farm  in  the  North  Country,  and  her  parents  were  so  poor  and  morally  un-  yielding  as  to  rule  outher  return  home  in  her  condition.  Deserted  without  warning  by  the  man  she  was  expecting  to  marry,  Mary  nevertheless  proved  resilient.  In  Covent  Garden  one  day,  she  met  an  elderly  Scottish  woman  living  on  a  fixed  income.  First  estab-  lishing  the  common  bond  of  the  soil-  she  and  the  distinguished  lady  had  lived  not  fifty  miles  from  each  other,  Mary  growing  up  northwest  of  New-  castle,  while  the  family  seat  of  her  newfound  friend  lay  below  Galashiels,  in  the  43616e616461ern  Uplands-Mary  found  herself  chatting  with  someone  whose  unpretentious  manner  and  gen-  tle  sense  of  humor  seemed  miraculous.  She  insinuated  herself  into  the  woman's  heart  with  her  tale  of  love  and  abandonment,  and  before  an  hour  was  out  had  found  a  new  home.  Mrs.  MacEwan,  as  the  elderly  woman  was  called,  claimed  she  needed  a  house-  maid  and  decided  then  and  there  that  Mary  would  do  perfectly.  Several  months  later  a  cherubic  girl  was  born.  The  child,  christened  Norma  Corbett,  took  up  residence  with  her  mother  in  Mrs.  MacEwan's  modest  house  in  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  and  grew  up  think-  ing  that  her  father  had  perished  at  Verdun.  A  delicately  beautiful  child  with  golden  hair,  at  ten  years  of  age  Norma  began  to  have  a  recurrent  dream  of  riding  in  a  white  coach  across  the  heavens.  This  coach  was  driven  by  a  handsome  man  whose  back  was  always  turned;  the  two  splendid  horses  he  guided  seemed  to  hurtle  themselves  sideways  along  the  sky,  almost  as  if  they  were  travelling  upside  down,  bu  at  incalculable  speeds.  Norma  emerge  from  these  dreams  feeling  dazed  an  unable  to  concentrate  on  school.  Mos  of  her  schoolmates  were  jealous  of  he  beauty,  and  by  the  age  ofsixteen  sh  had  only  one  friend  of  comparable  at  tractiveness,  Marjorie  Ruggles.  Mar  jorie  was  determined,  despite  fierce  op  position  from  her  family,  to  be  a:  actress,  and  it  was  through  hertha  Norma  became  involved  in  the  theatre  whose  pitfalls  and  peculiar  commit  ments  she  never  fully  understood.  He  passion  for  the  stage  outdistanced  he  modest  abilities,  and  she  was  tosuffe  numerous  disappointments  on  the  road  to  her  goal.  [REDACTED]  in  the  thirties  was  a  diff  cult  place  for  her.  Soon  after  Mrs  MacEwan's  death,  Norma's  mothe  married  a  widower  from  Birminghan  with  three  children  and  was  gone  a  well,  though  letters  containing  smal  banknotes  continued  to  arrive  sporadi  cally,  along  with  packages  of  crumble  Cornish  pastry.  Norma  was  working  as  a  salesgirl  in  a  large,  gloomy  de  partment  store  on  Tottenham  Cour  Road  when,  at  the  Soho  rehearsal  hal  where  she  and  her  friends  read  alou\xc2\xab  from  George  Bernard  Shaw,  she  met  :  young  556e6974656420537461746573n  actor  who  change  her  life,  Richard  Rideout.  Lustful  but  otherwise  sullen  an  " b"quite  unsympathetic,  Rideout  soon  was  back  in  the  United  [REDACTED]  with  Norma  in  tow.  Although  she  did  not  love  him,  Norma  had  been  prepared  to  put  up  with  a  good  deal  in  order  to  escape  her  life  in  [REDACTED].But  Ride-  out  insisted  that  she  remain  in  their  shabby  hotel  room  on  [REDACTED]  Thirty-ninth  Street,  in  [REDACTED],  while  he  disappeared  for  days  at  a  time,  suppos-  edly  in  search  of  work.  After  two  weeks  had  gone  by  in  this  fash-  ion,  she  left  the  room  every  morning  to  dis-  cover,  in  spite  of  her  disorientation  and  in-  timidation  by  the  city,  some  connection  with  a  new  life.  Haunting  the  theat-  rical  district,  she  made  the  acquaintance  of  several  struggling  young  actors,  two  of  whom,  Bill  Pierce  and  Beverly  Ann  Sim-  mons,  disclosed  to  her  their  plan  to  sell  their  possessions  and  move  to  [REDACTED]  to  begin  new  careers  in  the  cinema.  Norma  de-  cided  to  join  them.  To  pay  for  her  bus  ticket,  she  pawned  the  little  jewel-  ry  she  had  brought  with  her.  When  Rideout  turned  up  at  the  hotel  room  the  evening  she  was  to  leave,  he  seemed  to  feel  guilty  about  the  precar-  iousness  of  her  situation  and  relieved  to  have  her  off  his  hands.  Unexpected-  ly,  he  gave  her  twenty  dollars  for  the  journey  [REDACTED],  which  Norma  inter-  preted  as  a  sign  of  good  things  to  come.  She  and  Richard  parted  infor-  mally  and  never  saw  each  other  again.  Overjoyed,  she  ran  down  into  the  street  with  her  suitcase,  looking  for-  ward  to  her  first  large  meal  in  days  during  the  several  hours  that  remained  before  she  was  to  meet  her  friends  at  the  bus  station.  She  had  walked  no  more  than  a  block,  however,  when  she  came  upon  a  movie  palace  whose  lights  glowed  like  those  of  an  ocean  liner.  The  marquee  announced  the  New  York  premi\xc3\xa9re  of  &quot;The  Prisoner  of  Zenda,&quot;  starring  Ronald  Colman,  Madeleine  Carroll,  and  Douglas  Fair-  banks,  Jr.  Realizing  she  had  enough time  to  see  it,  Norma  contented  herself  with  a  hot  sausage  from  a  nearby  side-  walk  cart,  bought  a  ticket,  and  went  inside.  She  was  enthralled  by  Colman's  performance  as  Rudolph  Rassendyll,  thenoble,  self-sacrificing  English  hero  who  assumes  the  guise  of  his  double,  the  abducted  crown  prince  Rudolph  of  Ruritania,  in  order  to  prevent  a  take-  over  of  the  throne.  While  impersonat-  ing  the  kidnapped  prince  at  his  coro-  nation,  Rassendyll  falls  in  love  with  his  future  queen,  Flavia,  played  by  Madeleine  Carroll.  Before  the  movie  ended,  Norma  thought  that,  with  her  own  clear  features  and  golden  hair,  she  resembled  Miss  Carroll  closely  enough  to  note  the  producer's  name,  David  O.  Selznick,  and  determine  to  make  his  acquaintance  as  soon  as  she  arrived  in  [REDACTED].  Ronald  Colman  had  been  born  in  1891  in  [REDACTED],  Surrey,  [REDACTED].  He  took  part  in  amateur  dramatics  while  working  for  the  British  Steam-  ship  Company.  Invalided  out  of  the  First  World  War,  he  went  onto  the  stage  professionally.  He  was  successful  and  made  a  few  films  in  [REDACTED]  before  coming  to  [REDACTED],  in  1920.  While  working  in  the  New  York  theatre,  he  was  seen  by  Henry  King  and  chosen  to  play  opposite  Lillian  Gish  in  &quot;The  White  Sister.&quot;  Samuel  [REDACTED]  put  him  under  contract,  and  Colman  quickly  became  a  star.  As  an  actor  he  was  not  troubled  by  the  advent  of  sound.  When  he  spoke,  he  revealed  himself  as  charming  and  urbane.  His  mustache  and  his  manners  cast  him  perfectly  as  the  mature,  forth,  right  romantic,  and  as  such  he  won  a  large  following.  He  discovered  how  consistent  underplaying  could  work  for  him,  and  he  took  care  to  preserve  his  looks.  After  &quot;Kismet&quot;  (1944)  he  worked  less  and  less,  and  retired  in  1949,  returning  only  for  two  cameo  roles-in  &quot;Around  the  World  in  80  Days&quot;  and  &quot;The  Story  of  Mankind.&quot;  He  passed  away  in  1958. "