 b"FEB is  what  Icall  it,  and  Feb  is  that  it  is.  Someone  will  tell  you  that  at  least  it  is  the  shortest  month  of  the  year.  Oh,  come  off  it,  I  say-by  a  day  or  two,  if  you  can  call  them  days.  Each  is  like  yesterday:  now  you  see  it,  now  you  don't.  What  is  fun  in  Feb?  We  are  invited  to  celebrate  the  birthdays  of  three  Goners-one  mur-  dered,  one  martyred,  and  one  who  is  spinning  in  his  grave.  In  our  family,  too,  there  is  a  natal  day,  one  we  dare  not  celebrate-that  of  Gladstone,  who  is  my  husband.  Gladstone  is  not  your  typical  birthday  boy;  the  night  his  fa-  ther  got  him,  his  mind  (his  father's,  that  is)  was  not  on  him,  is  the  way  Gladstone  looks  at  it.  Only  last  sum-  mer  Gladstone  suggested  that  should  I  wish  to  honor  him  I  might  walk  one  pace  in  back  of  him  and  call  him  &quot;sir.&quot;  I  told  him  to  forget  it.  No  presents,  please;  should  one  be  offered,  it  will  be  returned  to  sender.  Jokey  cards  can  be  recognized  by  their  shape  and  thrown  away  unopened.  Because  this  occasion  cannot  be  totally  ignored  by  the  young  people  in  the  family,  who  might  in  the  future  have  guilt  feelings,  they  con-  trive  to  sneak  in  a  little  something.  As  today  is  Gladstone's  birthday,  the  chil-  drenhave  arranged  to  gather  here  later  simply  to  show  by  their  presence  that  they  are  loving  and  caring  and  everything.  They  themselves  will  pre-  pare  dinner.  Our  children  do  not  wear  the  skins  of  animals  or  eat  their  flesh.  Caviar,  if  available,  which  is  not  likely,  is  not  acceptable;  itis  torn  from  the  body  of  the  female.  Hens'  eggs,  on  the  other  hand,  are  freely  given,  they  say.  I  say,  Consult  a  hen,but  who  am  I?'  The  children  travel  by  plane  or  train-in  this  case,  because  they  are  not  far  away,  by  train-as  they  believe  thatthe  proliferation  of  the  automobile  causes  pollution,  and  the  proliferation  of  the  highway  for  the  automobile  is  the  mindless  paving  over  of  land  that  we  shall  all  need  to  feed  us  in  the  coming  years.  As  it  would  not  be  prac-  tical  for  them  to  bring  the  ingredients  of  dinner,  I  have  been  provided  with  a  list,  and  I  am  to  do  the  marketing.  The  clock  calls  it  morning.  I  lie  here  in  bed.  I  have  had  a  dream  I  cannot  remember.  It  is  Feb;  it  is  cold;  it  is  brass  tacks.  We  are  anonymous  in  birth  and  death.  My  eyes  are  closed,  my  hands  folded  upon  my  breast.  I  am  feeling  pure  and  done  for.  Something  disturbs  my  feet,  and  I  open  my  eyes  to  see  my  two  cats,  White  and  White,  less  than  grief-stricken,  groping  for  a  sign  of  life  in  me  in  this  dead  time.  Out  in  the  frozen  yard,  there  is  not  a  bird  that  is  not  on  to  them.  It  is  a  soundless  room,  a  soundless  world.  Most  of  our  friends  have  died,  di-  vorced,  or  moved  away.  The  rest  have  gone  to  tropical  islands  in  order,  as  they  have  said,  to  get  away  from  the  telephone.  This  leaves  me  without  anyone  to  talk  to,  and  where  am  I  without  the  telephone?  Why  hasn't  the  telephone  company  heard  about  me  and  hired  me  for,  say,  Dial-a-Chat?  Isn't  the  big  thing  these  days  commu-  nication,  or  the  absence  of  it?  How  can  I  communicate,  when  nobody  else  is  around?  Or  relate,  when  there  isn't  anybody  to  relate  to?  I  reach  for  the  telephone  book,  look  at  the  inside  of  the  cover:;  Emergency  Numbers-fire,  police,  medical,  ambulance,  hospital,  and  the  F.B.I.  No  chat  material.  I  think  of  Chuck,  our  neighborhood  psychiatrist;  halfheartedly,  I  pick  up  the  phone  and  dial  his  number.  Per-  haps  he  has  a  pill  for  Feb.  Chuck's  answering  service  tells  me  that  Doctor  is  not  in.  Can  he  be  on  assignment?  I  ask  when  he  is  expected  back,  but  the  answering  service  has  no  answers.  As  I  hang  up,  Gladstone  breezes  into  the  room  with  a  mug  of  coffee  for  me.  He  says  that  I  must  get  up,  that  the  sun  is  coming  out.  In  a  flash,  I  am  glued  to  the  window,  gaping  at  the  grim  sky,  where  there  is  a  vague,  pale  spot  in  the  overcast,  as  if  some  massive  arm  in  a  wash-and-wear  fabric  had  given  it  a  swipe  and  then  given  up.  Beyond  the  frozen  winter  yard  the  bare  branches  of  our  woods  scrawl  something  across  the  horizon,  but  the  calligraphy  of  winter  is  noncommit-  tal.  Now  there  is  a  rasping,  groaning  sound  out  there,  a  rusted  door  being  boosted,  and  I  turn  my  eyes  to  the  house  next  door.  Our  neighbor  is  cleaning  out  his  garage,  or  perhaps  he  is  preparing  for  some  dire  event  about  which  I  have  no  knowledge.  He  has  removed  his  jeep,  on  the  front  of  which  he  mounts  a  plow  for  clearing  his  driveway  of  the  season's  snows;  next,  he  brings  out  a  snowblower,  then  goes  back  for  something  else.  Can  he  have  lost  something  in  the  garage?  Must  he  move  everything  out  before  he  finds  it'  And  what  can  it  be?  In  summer  he  sits  on  and  runs  a  small  machine  around  and  over  the  lawn  to  mow  the  grass.  There  is  another  ma-  chine,  which  pokes  holes  in  the  earth,  to  aerate  the  soil.  So  far,  I  cannot  think  of  anything  he  might  have  lost,  unless  it  is  his  wife,  and  I  wonder  when  he  noticed  that  she  was  gone.  Perhaps  she  is  only  hiding.  Being  married  to  him  must  seem  like  being  married  to  a  tractor.  Gladstone  tells  me  that  I  cannot  just  lie  in  bed.  He  is  wrong;  I  can,  and  am  about  to  go  back,  but  he  stops  me.  He  says  I  have  to  get  out  of  here  and  let  my  circulation  start  up  again.  I  say,  Later.  Then  he  tells  me  that  he  has  " b"saved  today  for  his  weekly  trip  to  the  dump,  and  that  I  must  help  him  carry  things  to  his  station  wagon  and  go  along  with  him;  I  will  see  exactly  how  it  is  done,  in  case  there  should  come  a  time  when  I  will  have  to  do  this  by  myself.  His  briskness  unnerves  me.  I  glance  at  the  closet  and  tell  him  I  haven't  anything  to  wear.  We  don't  dress,  he  says.  I  discover  a  few  things  -heavy  brown  slacks,  nibbled  at  the  cuffs  by  a  corrosive  combination  of  frozen  muck  and  a  virulent  salt  com-  pound  from  the  roads,  an  orange  jersey  that  was  a  present,  a  green  hooded  parka  that  had  been  on  sale  for  half  the  original  price,  and  clomping  boots.  Gladstone  wants  to  know  if  I  am  go-  ing  to  brush  my  hair.  I  tell  him  I  suppose  I  will  if  I  happen  to  pass  a  brush.  He  reminds  me  that  Senlin  combed  his  hair.  I  remind  Aim\xc2\xbb  that  that  was  for  God.  But  I  go  along  and  help  him  load  the  station  wagon  with  things  we  don't  need  anymore-bound-  up  copies  of  the  week's  newspapers,  bags  of  refuse  that  have  been  rejected  by  our  rubbish-disposal  collectors,  and  cartons  of  glass  and  plastic  bottles.  At  the  dump,  we  put  the  bales  of  newspapers  in  therecycling  truck;  we  will  inevitably  get  them  back  next  year  as  Christmas  cards,  and  it  will  be  all  to  do  over,  but  such  is  the  never-ending  round  of  our  biodegradable  days.  We  add  the  bags  of  gunk  to  the  lavish  display  of  some  of  the  world's  classiest  detritus,  and  then  Gladstone  picks  up  a  carton  of  bottles.  There  is  a  mammoth  trailer  nearby,  and  a  ramp  leading  to  the  top.  It's  an  open  trailer  of  the  railroad  coal-car  type  often  called  a  gondola.  Gladstone  insists  that  I  climb  up  there  with  him  and  watch  the  fun.  At  the  top,  I  look  down  inside  the  trailer;  in  its  depths  are  variegated  shards  of  glass  and  a  few  intact  large,  economy-size  bottles,  to  say  nothing  of  ancient,  high-toned  fifths-Old  Grand  Dad,  Chivas  Regal.  &quot;Watch  closely,&quot;  Gladstone  tells  me.  He  puts  down  the  carton,  selects  a  bottle,  and  aims  it  at  a  Paul  Masson  Chablis  magnum.  There  is  a  shatter-  ing  twin  explosion,  both  bottles  in  splinters,  and  Gladstone's  face  is  a  map  of  bliss.  He  dusts  his  palms,  nods  at  an  attendant,  who  raises  clasped  hands  in  a  congratulatory  gesture,  and  leans  over  to  pick  up  another  bottle,  which  he  graciously  offers  to  me.  &quot;Try  it,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;It'll  do  you  good.  You  need  the  exercise,  and  it's  a  great  outlet  for  your  hostilities,  too.&quot;  I  acceptthe  bottle,  aim,  throw,  and  nick  something.  It  doesn't  do  a  thing  for  me.  I  draw  my  head  into  my  hood,  turtle  fashion.  Gladstone  polishes  off  more  bottles  until  he  runs  out  of  mis-  siles,  and  home  we  go.  REMEMBER  that  I  haven't  checked  the  houseplants  for  days,  and  slope  out  to  the  enclosed  porch  to  see  if  anything  is  wilting.  Nothing  is,  but  nothing  is  blooming,  either.  The  Whites  are  leaning  against  opposite  arms  ofa  red  couch,  contemplating  me  with  lacklustre  eyes,  and  suddenly  I  recall  the  dream  from  last  night,  when  I  wassomewhere  orother  with  some-  body  or  other  who  had  a  white  cat-a  young,  slim,  wiry  cat  just  out  of  kit-  tenhood.  Whoever  it  was  picked  it  up,  and  the  cat  turned  its  head,  looked  up,  and  laughed.  I  think  of  an  English  teacher  from  a  long  time  ago  who  had  written  in  my  yearbook:  &quot;Look  up  and  laugh,  and  love,  and  lift.&quot;  I  sit  in  a  rattan  swivel  chair  and  address  the  Whites.  &quot;Laugh,&quot;  I  say.  They  lick  \xc2\xae  their  shoulders.  I  try  something  else-  a  funny  story  from  my  youth,  with  a  few  embellishments  from  years  of  ex-  perience.  &quot;There  was  once  a  little  boy,&quot;  my  story  goes,  &quot;who  saidto  his  mother,  'Susy  and  I  are  going  to  get  married.&quot;  So  his  mother,  who  was  standing  there  ironing,  said,  'That's  very  nice.  Susy  is  a  lovely  little  girl.  But  have  you  thought  about  the  responsibilities  of  marriage?  It  is  not  all  fun  and  games;  it  is  not  even  going  to  the  dump  every  day.  You  do  not  have  income-produc-  ing  employment;  how  will  you  live?&quot;  'We  have  thought  about  that,'  the  lit-  tle  boy  said.  'And  we  have  decided  to  live  with  you  and  Pop.'  'Ah,  but  there  are  other  things  to  be  considered,  his  mother  went  on.  'Other  responsi-  bilities,  expenses.  For  instance,  sup-  pose  Heaven  sends  you  a  baby.  There  will  be  doctors'  bills-the  pediatrician,  the  dentist,  the  orthodontist,  the  peri-  odontist,  the  endodontist-camp,  dancing  school,  psychiatrists,  bail,  " b"and  even,  God  forbid,  college.&quot;  'We  have  thought  about  that,  too,&quot;  the  little  boy  said,  'and  we  aren't  going  to  have  a  baby.&quot;  Heaven  is  not  always  re-  liable,'  his  mother  said.  'No  problem,'  the  little  boy  answered.  'Every  time  Susy  lays  an  egg,  I'll  just  step  on  it.'&quot;  The  Whites  have  no  sense  of  hu-  mor.  It  is  not  entirely  their  fault;  they  had  a  traumatic  experience  when  they  were  very  young.  A  friend  who  is  an  artist  came  to  dinner  one  evening.  When  the  Whitescame  tumbling  downstairs  tosee  who  was  calling,  he  looked  them  over  and  began  to  laugh.  &quot;Look  at  those  cats!&quot;  he  roared.  &quot;All  white.  Not  a  trace  of  color.  Weird,  I  call  it.&quot;  They  turned  and  went  some-  place  in  the  house  where  I  could  not  find  them  to  explain  that  it  takes  all  kinds.  I  get  up  to  leave  the  room.  As  I  go  out,  I  turn  and  say,  &quot;Of  course,  this  is  the  Year  of  the  Dog.  I  have  heard  of  someone  who  has  a  dog  named  Hans  Arf,  and  another  who  has  many  litters  of  puppies  and  is  called  Barkis.&quot;  They  climb  wearily  off  the  couch  and  slide  under  it.  I  always  have  the  last  word.  Gladstone  has  retired  to  his  study,  where  he  will  do  mind-boggling  chores-pencil  sharpening,  all  that.  I  go  upstairs,  fiddle  around,  and  then  change  into  my  supermarket  costume  -a  white  cashmere  turtleneck,  which  was  a  present  (I  am  allergic  to  wool  and  choose  to  wear  it  as  my  hair  shirt),  and  my  Borgazia  mink  jacket.  I  find  the  grocery  list,  clomp  out  to  my  hatchback,  bounce  over  the  rutted  driveway,  and  hang  a  left  at  the  filthy  town  road.  It  occurs  to  me  that  I  haven't  much  money,  and  that  I  ought  to  stop  at  the  bank  and  cash  a  check.  As  I  approach  the  bank,  I  realize  that  I  truly  am  not  getting  much  exercise  this  winter,  so  instead  of  joining  the  line  at  the  drive-in  window,  I  park,  get  out,  close  and  lock  the  car  door,  shuffle  into  the  bank,  cash  the  check,  and  shuffle  all  the  way  back  to  the  car  again.  I  don't  feel  my  circulation  rac-  ing,  but,  then,  there  will  be  miles  to  go  inside  the  supermarket,  where  I  park,  lock  up,  and  go  in.  Passing  the  meat-  and-poultry  counter,  I  see  Flo,  who  is  Chuck  the  psychiatrist's  wife,  standing  near  a  stack  of  oven-stuffers  with  the  red  telephone  at  her  ear.  She  is  wear-  ing  a  purple  goose-down  Mae  [REDACTED].  I  pause;  she  puts  the  phone  down,  frowns,  looks  at  me,  and  shrugs.  No-  body  answers,  she  says.  &quot;Everybody's  out  of  town,&quot;  I  re-  mind  her.  &quot;Where's  Chuck,  by  the  way?&quot;  Her  eyes  fog  over.  &quot;Home.  In  bed.  We're  hoping  we  can  keep  him  at  home.&quot;  &quot;Sick?  I  didn't  think  Chuck  ever  got  sick.&quot;  She  shakesher  head.  &quot;A  break-  down,&quot;  she  tells  me.  &quot;He  says  all  he  ever  hears  about  is  problems,  problems,  problems,  day  in,  day  out,  and  he's  got  enough  of  his  own.  He  says  he's  had  it  up  to  here.&quot;  She  doesn't  indicate  where.  &quot;Too  bad,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;We'll  miss  him.&quot;  I  start  to  move  on.  &quot;Well,  have  a  nice  day.&quot;  ACK  home  in  the  kitchen,  I  begin  to  unpack  the  groceries.  Glad-  stone  strolls  in  and  asks  if  there's  any-  thing  hecan  do  to  help.  I  tell  him  not to  make  any  more  coffee.  There  isn't  much  room  on  the  counter  anymore,  because  of  the  food  processor,  which  takes  up  space.  I  bought  it  last  year  on  sale,  simply  to  prove  that  I  can  be  thrifty,  know  a  good  buy  when  I  see  it,  and  am  as  foxy  as  the  next  one.  I  mop  off  a  few  carrots,  plug  in  the  food  processor,  feed  a  couple  of  carrots  into  it,  and  they  come  out  with  bevelled  edges.  Wrong  blade.  I  change  blades,  and  get  scalloped  carrots;  change  again,  get  nuts  and  bolts.  I  dice;  I  mince;  I  shred.  Out  of  blades.  Glad-  stone  would  like  to  know  what  else  there  will  be  for  dinner  besides  carrots,  so  I  finish  unpacking:  rice  vinegar  and  fermented  soybean  paste,  called  miso,  many  things  from  the  Exotic  andFor-  eign  Foods  Shelf.  &quot;The  miso  is  probably  to  make  salad  dressing  for  the  shredded  carrots,&quot;  I  tell  him.  &quot;Can't  they  use  a  fresh  soybean  sauce,  something  that  isn't  spoiled?&quot;  Gladstone  asks.  &quot;And  where  are  the  chops  or  something?&quot;  I  explain  that  this  is  primarily  a  macrobiotic  diet-no  dairy  products  or  " b"red  meat-that  it  is  very  good  for  him,  and  that  he  will  love  these  mung  bean  sprouts.  He  reaches  out  and  picks  up  a  handful  to  taste;  some  of  them  fall  on  his  shoulder,  where  they  rest,  looking  like  epaulets.  I  salute.  &quot;As  you  were,&quot;  Gladstone  says  tersely,  and  asks  about  dessert,  I  show  him  a  cellophane-wrapped  carob-car-  rot  cake.  He  wants  to  know  if  I  have  inside  informationabout  carrot  fu-  tures.  I  haven't,  but  I  bring  out  and  place  on  the  counter  something  else.  &quot;Bean  curd,&quot;  I  tell  him.  &quot;Itlooks  done  in,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;At  least,  it  isn't  moving.&quot;  The  Whites  slouch  into  the  kitchen  and  edge  toward  us.  They  raise  their  heads  enthusiastically  toward  the  counter,  then  back  away,  mouth-  breathing.  Gladstone's  face  lights  up  as  he  opens  a  brown  bag.  &quot;Mush-  rooms!&quot;  he  exclaims.  &quot;Good  old  broiled  mushrooms.  I  can  taste  them  now  -golden  brown  and  dripping  with  butter!&quot;  He  looks  at  me  and  the  light  fades  from  his  honest  face.  &quot;Probably  for  the  salad,&quot;  I  tell  him.  &quot;Or,  yet,  crudit\xc3\xa9s.&quot;  If  our  eyes  meet,  quick  tears  may  start.  We  detest  raw  mushrooms,  which  are  practically  unavoidable  these  days  in  better  restaurants  or  at  the  best  private  tables.  I  wonder  who  ever  started  such  a  thing;  I  would  as  soon  go  down  to  the  root  cellar  and  lap  at  the  walls  aseat  raw  mushrooms.  Hefting  and  pinching  the  last  pack-  age,  Gladstone  is  once  again  his  usual  sunny  self.  &quot;At  last.  Fish.  Broiled  fish.  Now,  there  is  something  you  can't  eat  raw.&quot;  I  say  nothing;  today  I  will  be  merci-  ful.  But  I  bow  my  head.  He  stares  at  me,  aghast,  and  stumbles  toward  the  door  to  the  dining  area.  Suddenly  he  seems  overcome-Mr.  Tulliver,  for  whom  the  world's  been  too  many.  He  raises  both  hands  and  pushes  his  hair  forward  over  his  forehead,  turns,  and  leers  at  me.  And  yet  he  has  scarcely  changed;  Gladstone  is  impeccable,  even  in  disarray.  I  stand  by  the  counter  and  ponder,  which  is  easier  than  washing  up  the  blades  and  bowl  of  the  food  processor.  Gladstone  has  disappeared,  but  now  he  returns,  a  folder  under  his  arm,  He  sits  at  the  kitchen  table  and  opens  the  folder  to  a  back  page,  which  he  smooths  and  spreads  before  him.  &quot;Now,  here  is  something  I've  been  going  over.  It  is  the  report  on  our  energy  audit.  You  remember  when  that  young  man  came  here  and  went  all  over  the  house  looking  for  leaks  and  things.&quot;  It  is  a  statement,  and  I  do.  &quot;Now,  listen  closely.  You  live  here,  too,  you  know.  And  we  must  be  realistic.  You  may  very  well  be  here  alone  one  day-that  is,  we  may  not  always  have  me  to  take  charge  of  these  things.&quot;  I  tryto  think  of  a  line  of  poetry  that  will  buck  me  up.  All  that  comes  to  mind  is  &quot;I  shall  sit  here,  serving  tea  to  friends.&quot;  &quot;That  young  man  pointed  out  that  we  had  almost  no  sidewall  insulation,&quot;  Gladstone  continues.  &quot;I  remember,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;Because  I  " b"thought  it  was  the  builder  cutting  cor-  ners.  But  the  young  man  said  that  you  don't  find  sidewall  insulation  very  of-  ten  in  these  old  houses.  Old?  Twenty-  five  years,  old?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  but  you  see  ke  isn't,&quot;  Glad-  stone  points  out.  &quot;He  might  very  well  havebeen  raised  in  a  house  built  when  this  one  was  and  consider  it  the  old  homestead.  I'll  go  along  with  some  of  it,  but  listen  tothis  one:  'Since  your  house  was  built,  it  has  become  stan-  dard  practice  to  insulate  the  perimeter  of  concrete  slab  with  rigid  foam.&quot;  &quot;  &quot;Beyond  me,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;Just  a  minute.  There's  more,  and  I  quote:  'Excavate  the  ground  around  your  house  to  a  depth  of  one  foot  and  a  width  of  four  feet.  Remove  the  first  few  rows  of  siding  and  nail  a  two-  by-four  strip  to  the  sill&quot;  What  in  the  name  of  heaven  is  extruded  poly-  styrene?  And  how  will  I  flash  over  it?&quot;  &quot;'You'll  need  help,&quot;  I  tell  him.  (&quot;Whence  cometh  my  help?&quot;)  &quot;It  goes  on  to  say,&quot;  Gladstone  tells  me,  &quot;that  this  particular  little  job  pays  back  in  fifty-two  point  three  years.&quot;  I  wave  my  hands  in  the  air.  &quot;I'm  sorry,  I  can't  wait.  I  almost  forgot;  I  have  to  go  out  again.&quot;  Gladstone  closes  the  folder  and  shakes  his  head.  &quot;These  are  things  you  really  ought  to  know;  the  chances  are  slim  that  you  will  go  first.&quot;  (&quot;The  rose-lipt  girls  are  sleeping  in  fields  where  roses  fade.&quot;)  I  head  for  the  hall  closet,  where  I  pull  out  a  ghastly  storm  coat  with  a  button-in  lining.  &quot;We'll  talk  about  it  later,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;I  almost  forgot  I've  got  an  appointment.&quot;  &quot;Now  what?&quot;  &quot;Oh-nothing,  [REDACTED];  I  shrug.  Why  don't  I  want  to  tell  him  what  I  just  thought  of?  It's  his  birthday,  isn't  it?  On  the  other  hand  .  ..  &quot;Only  the  doctor.&quot;  &quot;The  doctor?&quot;  Gladstone  stares  at  me  and  narrows  his  eyes.  &quot;At  this  hour?  It's  almost  night.&quot;  I  button  the  coat.  &quot;How  can  you  tell?  Anyway,  it's  only  for  my  allergy  booster.  I  won't  be  long,  unlessthe  waiting  room  is  crowded.&quot;  &quot;Just  a  minute.&quot;  Gladstone  taps  the  table  with  two  fingers.  &quot;I  don't  think  I  ought  to  let  you  go  alone.  You  might  have  a  reaction.&quot;  \xc2\xab'Nonsense,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;I  never  do.  Be  back  before  you  know  I'm  gone.&quot;  As  I  go  out,  I  see  Gladstone  get  up  and  wander  over  to  the  counter  where  the  groceries  are.  He  picks  up  some-  thing  that  may  be  a  carrot.  With  onlya  twinge  of  guilt,  I  get  in  the  hatchback,  charge  up  the  rutted  drive-  way,  look  carefully  both  ways  before  I  edge  onto  the  filthy  road,  and  find  my  way  over  to  the  Post  Road,  which  is  what  we  still  call  Route  1.  In  no  time,  I  am  in  front  of  what  I've  now  almost  convinced  myself  really  is  the  doctor's  office-a  small,  one-story  stucco  build-  ing.  I  get  out,  lock  the  hatchback,  and  go  in.  The  place  is  empty,  but  I  sup-  pose  it  is  an  odd  hour.  The  doctor,  in  his  white  jacket,  is  seated  on  the  end  stool,  paging  through  a  magazine.  He  rises  as  I  go  over  and  slide  onto  a  stool  near  him,  but  almost  before  I  canun-  button  my  coat  the  door  has  opened  again,  and,  looking  up,  I  see  Glad-  stone  in  the  mirror  over  the  counter.  He  comes  and  sits  beside  me,  but  we  do  not  speak.  The  doctor  greets  us  both  and  says  to  me,  &quot;&quot;Yes,  Ma'am.  W  hat'll  it  be?&quot;  &quot;I'll  have  ahot  dog,&quot;  I  tell  him.  &quot;Anything  on  that?&quot;  1  nod.  &quot;The  works.&quot;  He  turns  to  Gladstone.  &quot;And  you,  sir?&quot;  &quot;Hamburger.  Well  done,&quot;  Glad-  stone  says.  &quot;Coming  right  up,&quot;  the  doctor  tells  us.  I  decide  to  loosen  up.  &quot;You  didn't  tell  him  what  you  wanted  on  it,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;You  want  it  with  the  pickle  in  the  middle  and  the  mustard  on  top,  or  the  mustard  in  the  middle  and  the  pickle  on  top,  Mr.  Kitzel?&quot;  No  answer.  &quot;Or  do  you  want  a  Wimpy,  as  he  ordered  one-with  pickles,  onions,  and  ketchup  both?&quot;  Mine  is  a  solitary  voice.  When  the  medication  arrives,  we  are  absorbed.  After  a  little  while,  I  turn  to  Glad-  stone.  &quot;This  is  when  the  hot  dog  has  achieved  a  peak  of  succulence,&quot;  I  tell  him.  &quot;When  you  get  little  pieces  of  paper  napkin  in  your  mouth  with  each  bite.&quot;  There  is  a  silence.  &quot;Know  what  I  mean?&quot;  I  say.  He  turns  and  frowns  at  me.  And  then  I  understand.  If  Glad-  stone  has  told  me  once,  he  has  told  me  a  thousand  times  that  it  looks  affected  for  people  who  have  been  married  as  long  as  we  have  to  beseen  speaking  to  each  other  over  dinner  in  public,  as  if  they  had  anything  left  to  say.  Putting  on  airs,  Gladstone  calls  it. "