 b"WHILE  sifting  through  the  lit-  ter  in  my  desk  drawer  a  num-  ber  of  years  ago,  I  came  across  two  brittle  pieces  of  a  picture  postcard.  I  taped  them  together  and  then  taped  the  card  onto  the  glass  of  my  study  window,  where  it  remains.  It  depicts  an  urban  scene  from  which  only  a  portion  of  sky  and  the  end  of  a  boulevard  in  the  foreground  are  miss-  ing.  The  major  building  is  intact:  a  three-story,  block-long  structure  in  an  austere  classical  style  which  hardly  needs  the  flag  on  the  roof  to  denote  its  governmental  nature.  A  man  with  a  stovepipe  hat,  swallow-tailed  coat,  cane,  and  protruding  stomach  is  lei-  surely  crossing  the  wide  street  at  the  intersection,  the  focal  point  of  the  pic-  ture.  Walking  the  opposite  way  and  about  to  pass  him  is  a  wasp-waisted  woman  in  a  long  dress  and  feathered  hat-she  is  as  obviously  a  lady  as  he  is  a  gentleman-who  is  holding  the  hand  of  a  fat  child  in  a  red  coat.  At  the  center  of  the  intersection  a  man  some-  what  lower  in  the  social  hierarchy  (for  he  is  in  shirtsleeves  and  his  hands  are  in  his  pockets)  trudges  forward.  Be-  hind  him  a  bicyclist  is  about  to  enter  the  boulevard.  A  woman  in  red-she  is  outsize,  like  a  statue  of  a  queen-  has  just  crossed  the  side  street.  Her  hands  rest  on  her  wide  hips;  the  hem  of  her  gown  still  drapes  over  the  curb.  Other  figures,  more  nondescript,  stand  or  pace  nearby.  An  open  touring  car  with  three  passengers  has  al-  ready  passed  the  intersection,  leav-  ing  behind  a  jaunty  trail  of  white  smoke.  Approaching  from  the  other  direction-apparently  at  so  mod-  erate  a  speed  that  the  pedestri-  ans  needn't  bother  themselves  with  a  glance  that  way-are  a  three-  wheeled  motorcycle  vanand  a  streetcar.  If  the  piece  of  sky  miss-  ing  from  the  upper  left  corner  were  to  be  found,  it  would  con-  tain  these  words  printed  on  the  clouds:  &quot;U.S.  MINT,  PHILADEL-  PHIA,  PA.&quot;  I  have  kept  this  card  for  more  than  half  a  century.  It  was  already  old-the  date  on  the  postmark  is  August  31,  1912-when  my  mother  removed  it  from  an  album  sothat  I  could  look  at  it  during  an  illness  in  my  fourth  or  fifth  year.  A  slight  fever  can  cause  a  child's  mind  to  concentrate  so  fully  on  a  specific  picture,  or  on  a  sin-  gle  detail  in  it,  that  his  actual  surroundings-a  bedroom,  say,  with  its  familiar  bureau  and  wallpaper,  its  closet  door  partly  ajar-become  the  less  substantial  reality.  This  picture  helda  particular  appeal  for  me,  be-  cause  it  was  capable  of  transforma-  tions.  For  the  card  has  been  cunningly  fashioned-with  two  plies  of  card-  board,  apertures  in  the  heavier  ply,  transparent  paper  in  several  colors  be-  tween  the  plies-to  permit  changes  in  the  time  of  day.  Looked  at  in  ordinary  light,  the  scene  represents  morning  or  late  afternoon;  the  figures  have  shadows,  and  a  pale  crescent  moon  floats  above  the  flag.  But  if  the  card  is  held  against  a  sunny  pane  or  lamp-  shade,  the  moon  brightens  and  the  corner  street  light  glows.  The  win-  dows  of  the  Mint  possess  a  splendid  yellow-gold  incandescence,  those  of  the  streetcar  and  more  distant  build-  ings  a  fainter  yellow.  The  headlights  of  streetcar  and  motorcycle  shine,  and  the  area  immediately  beforethe  tour-  ing  car  (its  headlights  being  hidden  from  view)  turns  a  gauzy  white.  Ob-  jects-buildings,  the  larger  trees-  take  on  greater  mass,  as  they  do  in  the  real  world  at  dusk,  just  before  solidity  begins  to  melt.  It  becomes  difficult  to  separate  the  rich  and  the  regal  from  the  poor  and  the  nondescript.  All  the  pedestrians  simply  seem  caught  in  the  act  of  hurrying  along,  to  the  security  of  their  own  homes.  As  a  child,  I  would  hold  a  flashlight against  the  back  of  the  card  after  my  room  became  completely  dark.  Every-  thing  in  the  picture  would  be  invisible  except  for  the  variously  colored  lights  and  a  single  figure-that  of  the  street-  car's  motorman,  outlined  against  the  windshield,  peering  into  a  street  so  black  that  his  headlight  illuminated  nothing  whatever.  The  windows  of  the  Mint  blazed  but  were  empty  of  life,  and  the  brightly  lit  streetcar  carried  no  passengers.  With  a  second  flash-  light,  of  the  pencil  type,  I  could  focus  the  beam  on  the  streetcar  alone,  thus  endowing  it  with  imaginary  move-  ment  through  the  dark.  I  pictured  the  motorman  pulling  the  throttle  to  allow  the  rails  to  carry  him  around  bends  and  over  the  clack-clack  of  crossings  to  a  deserted  terminus  that  glowed-larger  flashlight  again-just  like  the  Mint  it  actually  was.  The  terminus,  each  window  a  golden  bar,  was  a  treasure  so  vast  that  I  knew  the  motorman  must  beboth  lonely  and  full  of  that  kind  of  happiness  indis-  tinguishable  from  wonder.  Though  I  experienced  his  happiness  as  if  it  were  my  own,  I  was  not  the  motor-  man.  I  don't  think  children  ever  put  themselves  into  the  little  worlds  that  fascinate  them.  To  do  so  is  to  turn  gold  into  dross;  to  enter  a  world  is  to  lose  it.  I  HAVE  been  out  in  the  world  quite  some  time:  it  is  January  of  the  year  thatwill  bring  my  sixtieth  birth,  day.  Earlier  in  the  month,  my  wife  and  I,  both  longtime  employees  of  Cornell,  attended  a  three-hour  seminar,  sponsored  by  the  per-  sonnel  office  of  the  university,  called  &quot;Planning  for  Retirement.&quot;  The  audience  was  composed  of  silver-haired  men  and  women,  some  of  them  friends  of  ours,  most  of  the  rest  acquaintances,  or  at  least  people  whose  faces  were  fa-  miliar-vice-presidents  and  other  administrative  officers;  librarians  who  over  the  years  have  located  elusive  books  for  me  and  fined  me  for  not  returning  them  on  time;  mathematicians,  physicists,  biolo-  gists,  engineers,  and  fellow-hu-  manists,  many  of  whom  have  made  distinguished  contributions  to  their  fields.  We  were  the  stu-  dents;  our  teachers,  who  were  more  fashionably  dressed  than  any  of  us,  were,  it  seemed  to  me,  a  group  of  earnest  and  well-mean-  ing  kids  just  out  of  business  school.  Though  the  cause-how  to  survive  inflation  after  our  pay-  " b"checks  cease-was  wholly  in  our  prac-  tical  self-interest,  I  felt  the  seminar  to  be  an  initiatory  rite  into  the  secrets  of  old  age,  a  rite  as  disquieting  to  me  as  the  first  orientation  lecture  I  had  at-  tended  as  a  private  in  an  Army  recep-  tion  center  during  the  Second  World  War.  A  sense  of  an  unavoidable  future  violation  of  my  freedom  and  dignity  linked  the  present  orientation  to  the  earlier  one.  Sitting  beside  my  wife  of  thirty-six  years,  aware-even  as  I  was  watching  slides  and  listening  to  statis-  tics  of  one  financial  strategy  or  an-  other-that  in  some  corner  of  her  mind  she,  like  me,  was  conscious  of  our  life  together  and  of  the  comfort-  able  old  farmhouse  in  which  we  raised  our  three  sons,  I  was  also  feeling  the  heaviness  in  my  arm  from  a  typhoid  injection  and  hearing  a  lieutenant  read  in  a  monotone  the  grave  penalties  for  desertion  in  wartime  and  wondering  about  what  lay  ahead  for  me,  a  recruit  soon  to  become  a  rifleman  in  an  infan-  try  platoon.  HE  following  weekend,  both  my  wife,  Jean,  and  I  were  still  de-  pressed-a  condition  unrelieved  by  the  common  sense  telling  us  that  we  have  many  useful  years  ahead;  it  was  simply  that  kind  of  weekend  in  which  the  winter  seems  unendurably  long,  one's  own  life  doesn't  add  up  to  much,  and  nobody  wants  to  think  of  tomorrow.  Two  of  our  three  sons-Jim,  a  junior  at  Cornell,  and  Cris,  his  older  brother,  who  works  in  Ithaca-continue  to  live  with  us,  as  does  my  ninety-eight-year-  old  mother,  and  normally  we  are  grat-  ified  that  they  do.  But  the  washing  machine  broke,  and  then  the  oil  fur-  nace.  We  have  a  wood  furnace  as  a  backup,  and  though  we  have  enough  logs  to  last  through  the  winter,  many,  of  them  had  not  been  split  and  piled  in  the  basement.  I  resented  my  sons  for  not  having  accomplished  that  chore  in  October,  even  as  Jean  resented  the  disorder  of  their  rooms.  One  of  them,  irritable  all  morning  because  of  our  gloom  and  because  of  some  undisclosed  personal  problem  or  loss,  spilled  a  glass  of  chocolate  milk  at  lunch  and  said,  with  tears  in  hiseyes,  &quot;Life  is  just  too  much&quot;-an  overreaction  that  nevertheless  stirredin  us  feelings  of  love  and  guilt.  After  lunch,  we  decided  to  varnish  the  worn  floorboards  in  the  dining  room,  and  Jean  immediately  began  to  clean  out  the  buffet  sothat  we  could  more  easily  move  it.  (Discontent  of  one  sort  or  another  underlies  nearly  all  of  the  home  repairs  and  improvements  that  she  and  I  make.)  As  the  most  convenient  receptacle  in  the  house,  its  drawer  was  jammed  with  inoperative  watches,  eyeglasses  that  corrected  a  younger  vision,  instructions  and  guar-  antees  for  already  discarded  household  appliances  and  garden  tools,  road  maps,  subway  tokens,  French  cen-  times,  old  passports,  color  slides  from  the  various  trips  we  took  when  our  children  were  small,  and  an  accumula-  tion  of  all  their  school  report  cards.  Jean  had  been  at  work  half  anhour  before  she  came  into  my  study,  wiping  her  eyes.  &quot;I  feel  so  unhappy,  I've  got  to  do  something  else,&quot;  she  said,  em-  bracing  me  tightly;  and  later,  in  look-  ing  at  the  still  open  drawer,  I  saw  that  she  had  worked  her  way  down  to  some  small  photographs  in  flimsy  gilt  frames.  With  the  weight  of  everything  she  already  had  sorted  through,  she  must  have  found  the  picture  on  top-  one  of  Larry,  our  oldest  child,  taken  in  his  sixth  year  at  his  first  piano  recital  -too  much  to  bear.  We  were  living  then  in  asmall  town  in  the  hills  of  eastern  [REDACTED].  I  was  a  young  professor  at  the  college;  Jean,  though  her  graduate  degree  was  in  biochemistry  and  her  previous  job  that  of  a  research  chemist,  taught  the  journalism  course  and  handled  the  col-  lege  publicity.  Larry  was  still  too  young  for  school  and  Cris  was  an  infant,  and  Jean  often  wrote  her  news  releases  at  a  typewriter  on  the  dining-  room  table,  in  view  of  the  playpen.  To  occupy  Larry's  attention,  she  bought  him  an  old  typewriter  and  installed  it  on  the  opposite  side  of  the  table.  Not  all  the  keys  worked,  but  he  would  type  out  lines  of  &quot;z&quot;s  and  &quot;x'sandamper-  sands.  My  department  chairman  and  his  wife,  a  fine  pianist  who  gave  les-  sons  to  adults  and  older  children,  lived  nearby,  and  one  morning  when  she  stopped  by  for  coffee  with  Jean,  Larry'styping  caught  her  attention.  In  a  low  voice,  she  said  to  Jean,  &quot;It's  amazing  how  strong  his  fingers  have  become.  I  believe  he's  ready  for  the  piano.  Maybe  I  can  see  how  it  goes,  early  some  morning  before  my  first  student  comes.&quot;  The  following  dawn,  Larry,  wearing  a  suit  we  had  recently  bought  him,  came  into  our  bedroom  carrying  my  graduate-school  briefcase.  ''Tie  my  shoes,&quot;  he  said  to  Jean.  &quot;I'm  going  for  my  piano  lesson.&quot;  We  man-  aged  to  hold  him  off  until  after  break-  fast  and  a  warning  call  to  the  teacher;  but  in  a  month  we  bought  a  piano  that  cost  almost  a  third  of  our  combined  annual  salaries  and  that  we  paid  for,  with  difficulty,  over  a  three-year  span.  Now  Larry  is  thirty-one,  a  busy  cine-  matographer  in  [REDACTED],  who  en-  joys  playing  Mozart  and  Beethoven  on  his  own  piano  in  his  spare  moments.  In  the  picture,  he  sits  upright  and  self-  possessed  on  a  dark  stage-a  tiny  a  wa  rest  a-  " b"figure  between  a  [REDACTED]  concert  grand  and  a  spray  of  flowers,  his  fingers  properly  arched  at  the  key-  board.  He  is  dressed  in  the  suit,  its  coat  sleeves  already  too  short;  at  his  neck,  a  bow  tie  is  askew.  His  head  is  turned  toward  the  camera;  the  eyesof  his  too  white  face  (the  colors  of  the  photo-  graph  have  faded)  reflect  the  glow  of  the  flashbulb  and  the  triumph  he  has  just  experienced.  In  looking  at  the  photograph,  I  felt  such  love  for  my  wife  that  I  had  to  search  her  out,  to  return  her  embrace;  and  then  I  went  for  a  walk,  alone,  in  the  snow,  asking  myself  why  it  should  be  that  a  happy  memory  often  cannot  dissipate  or  even  alleviate  a  present  disquietude  but  instead  turns  it  into  grief,  and,  furthermore,  why  it  should  be  that  the  bond-the  understanding  and  sympathy-between  a  long-mar-  ried  husband  and  wife  depends  so  greatly  on  the  shared  knowledge  of  that  miserable  truth.  IT  is  now  a  Thursday  morning,  late  in  the  long  Cornell  intersession;  the  spring  term  starts  on  Monday,  and  I  should  be  preparing  my  first  lec-  tures  for  the  students  who  will  be  re-  turning  with  the  sun  of  Jamaica  or  [REDACTED]  on  their  refreshed  young  faces.  Jean,  who  is  not  a  teacher,  left  for  work  two  hours  ago.  As  is  my  cus-  tom,  I  stood  by  the  window  watching  her  car  slowly  go  down  the  snow-  covered  country  road,  saying  to  my-  self,  as  it  disappeared  over  the  crest  half  a  mile  away,  &quot;I  love  you;  be  careful&quot;-words  whose  magical  pro-  tective  power  is  doubtless  a  vestige  of  the  beliefs  of  our  most  distant  ances-  tors.  I  have  been  sitting  at  my  desk,  look-  ing  at  the  postcard  ofthe  [REDACTED]  Mint,  caught  by  some  elusive  connec-  tion  between  my  childhood  response  to  it  and  a  kind  of  happiness  that  endures  without  contamination  through  our  adult  years,  that  never  reverses  into  grief  or  pain.  In  particular,  I  have  been  remembering  the  July  day  four  years  ago  that  Cris  and  I  drove  to  Montour  Falls,  a  village  about  fifteen  miles  from  our  house.  We  had  gone  there  to  order  roof  trusses  for  a  small  barn  Cris  was  building  for  his  newly  purchased  herd  of  goats.  Jean's  birth-  day  was  only  a  few  days  distant,  and  after  we  had  purchased  the  trusses  we  stopped  at  a  drugstore,  where  I  bought  her  a  Timex  watch-a  slightly  better  model  than  her  present  one,  which  no  longer  was  reliable;at  a  hardware  store,  where  Cris  bought  her  a  dozen  Corning  tumblers  to  replace  the  set  that  had  shattered,  glass  by  glass,  over  the  past  few  years;  and  then  at  a  gro-  cery  store,  where  we  bought  birthday  candles  and  a  box  of  Betty  Crocker  chocolate-cake  mix.  There  is,  certainly,  a  simple  plea-  sure  in  making  such  purchases  with  one's  son,  and  in  contemplating  both  the  coming  birthday  of  a  wife  and  the  completion  of  astructure  felt  by  the  son  to  be  part  of  the  fulfillment  of  a  dream.  But  my  happiness  that  day  was  so  extraordinary  that  for  months  after-  ward  I  thought  of  it  as  a  gift  that  transcended  physicality.  I  had  been  in  Montour  Falls  once  before,  to  haggle  with  an  automobile  dealer  over  a  car  beyond  my  means,  and  I  have  been  there  since.  It  is  an  attractive  little  place,  situated  ina  valley,  and  its  main  street  ends  in  a  tiny  park  where  water  tumbles  down  rocks-the  falls  from  which  the  village  gets  part  of  its  name.  A  manufacturing  plant,  where  Shepard  Niles  hoists  and  cranes  are  made,  stands  at  the  edge  of  the  village.  The  central  blocks  show  the  ravages  both  of  age  and  of  the  enclosed  shopping  malls  in  the  nearby  cities.  But  on  the  day  I  visited  there  with  Cris,  the  vil-  lage  was  charming  and  inviolate,  a  tidy  collection  of  tree-shaded  houses  and  old-fashioned  stores  in  which  the  floor-  boards  creaked  as  they  ought  to-a  suddenly  stumbled  upon  Eden  of  the  a  American  imagination,  one  that  still  had  its  grande  dame  in  the  great  house  which,  with  the  falls,  overlooked  the  village,  but  also  one  in  which  the  mayor,  the  farm  worker,  and  the  lathe  operator  joined  in  an  easy,  genial  rela-  tionship,  solving  their  problems  in  the  downtown  caf\xc3\xa9  over  cups  of  Maxwell  House.  Without  exception,  the  shop-  keepers  were  friendly  and  honest  folk,  patient  with  us  as  we  examined  every  possible  gift  on  their  shelves,  glad  to  bring  from  the  storeroom  some  dusty  item  that  might  be  just  what  we  were  after;  and  as  I  pulled  out  of  the  munic-  ipal  parking  lot  the  policeman  smiled  and  waved  me  on,  as  if  we  had  been  friends  forever.  It  seemed  to  me  that  ir  asense  we  had,  and  that  I  obscure-  ly  knew  his  village-not  so  much  through  the  illusions  of  a  d\xc3\xa9j&amp;  vu  as  through  the  truth  of  a  d\xc3\xa9;&amp;  commu  (if  there  is  such  a  phrase).  For  I  believed  I  had  been  returned  to  an  authentic  state  of  being,  one  experienced  I  didn't  know  when,  an  island  of  feeling  toward  which  I  had  ever  since  been  swimming.  What  was  that  earlier  event'  In  looking  at  the  postcard,  it,  too,  has  returned  to  me,  as  if  both  it  and  the  visit  to  Montour  Falls  were  prefigured  in  my  childhood  wonder  at  the  picture.  That  earlier  event-which  also  in-  cluded  a  visit-is  tangled  up  with  a  period  of  my  life  that  I  normally  choose  toforget.  In  my  fifteenth  year,  having  said  goodbye  in  Flint,  Michi-  gan,  to  the  mother  who  could  not  support  me  any  more  than  I  could  support  her,  I  moved  to  [REDACTED],  to  live  for  some  months  with  my  father  and  a  stepmother  I  wouldn't  accept  and  who,  naturally  enough,  returned  my  coldness.  I  worried  about  my  sexu-  ality,  partly  because  one  day  I  was  accosted  by  a  middle-aged  man  as  I  walked  through  Jackson  Park  on  my  way  to  school,  partly  because  my  fa-  " b"ther  or  stepmother,  or  both,  left  a  pulp-paper  pamphlet  titled  &quot;Mastur-  bation:  A  Youthful  Folly&quot;  on  the  kitchen  table  for  me  to  peruse  while  they  were  away  on  one  of  his  business  trips.  My  naivete  was  monumental,  even  for  that  era,  and  my  sexuality  had  no  clear  expression.  In  my  loneliness  I  had  developed  the  habit,  mainly  on  weekends,  of  sitting  on  my  bed  and  looking  out  my  first-floor  window  at  the  streetcars  and  pedestrians.  Each  streetcar  carried  a  number  on  its  side.  I  began  to  jot  down  the  numbers,  and  to  keep  a  record  of  the  length  of  time  it  tookeach  trolley  to  reach  the  end  of  the  line  and  return.  One  of  themcame  back  much  earlier  than  my  schedule  called  for;  it  was  empty,  and  though  would-be  passengers  stepped  into  the  streetto  board  it,  the  motorman  dis-  dained  them,  clanging  his  bell  as  he  travelled  past  the  intersection  at  a  reckless  speed.  (The  link  between  that  streetcar  and  my  childhood  contempla-  tionof  the  postcard  never  occurred  to  me.)  Such  a  variation  in  the  schedule  simply  gave  me  an  odd,  quasi-sexual  excitement,  and  in  the  following  days  I  sat  before  the  card  table  my  step-  mother  had  put  in  my  room  for  me  to  do  my  homework  on  and  wrote  several  little  stories  to  explain  the  mystery.  As  voyeuristic  in  those  months  as  the  boy  in  Joyce's  &quot;Araby,&quot;  I  was  perhaps  sublimating  sexual  desires  into  a  con-  scious  dreaming,  for  I  constructed  a  number  of  further  little  tales  from  what  I  saw  in  the  sad  faceof  apas-  serby,  in  the  sweep  of  a  cloak.  One  time,  my  stepmother  read  a  story  of  mine  while  I  was  in  school  and  showed  it  to  my  father.  They  held  a  conference  with  me  after  dinner:  Did  I,  they  wanted  to  know,  plan  on  send-  ing  my  writings  out  for  publication?  The  Daily  News,  I  said,  prints  vi-  gnettes  like  mine.  They  both  said  that  real  authors  never  use  family  names,  only  pen  names,  and  that  I  should  choose  one;  and  they  suggested  that  then  and  therethethree  of  us  might  find  one,  as  if  it  were  a  warm  family  game  from  my  early  childhood,  like  &quot;I  Spy&quot;  or  &quot;Ghost.&quot;  I  had  mentioned  the  Daily  News  because  my  father  knew  some  of  the  executives  there,  but  it  was  obvious  to  me  that  both  he  and  my  stepmother  wanted  to  divorce  them-  selves  from  my  efforts.  In  such  a  re-  jection  I  felt  my  very  imagination  to  be  diseased.  &quot;I  don't  want  to  em-  barrass  anybody,&quot;  I  said,  and  fled  to  " b"my  room.  As  the  school  term  drew  to-  ward  its  end,  I  could  concentrate  on  neither  my  stories  nor  my  homework;  though  previously  I  had  enjoyed  mathematics,  now  I  couldn't  solve  the  simplest  of  problems  in  geometry.  Such  an  experience  is  an  old  story,  and  not  only  for  me;  variations  of  it  lurk  within  fables,  and  echoes  of  it  can  be  found  in  the  bedtime  tales  I  once  read  to  my  own  children.  In  any  event,  it  was  followed  by  a  storybook  inver-  sion.  One  summer  day,  my  father  asked  me  to  go  with  him  on  a  selling  trip  to  a  town  called  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  both  because  he  would  like  my  com-  pany  and  because  my  constant  pres-  ence,  now  that  school  was  out,  had  a  disturbing  effect  on  my  stepmother,  who  was  having  (he  said)  woman  troubles;  perhaps  I  had  noticed  that  he  as  well  as  I  was  having  difficulties  with  her.  And  so  I  went.  I  remember  it  as  a  lovely  afternoon  in  late  June  or  early  July,  and  I  remember  that  my  father  almost  at  once  became  as  carefree  and  affectionate  as  I  had  known  him  to  be  before  he  left  my  mother.  Driving  along,  he  talked  about  the  meaning  of  life  and  the  importance  of  the  college  education  he'd  never  had  and  all  of  the  professional  fields  I  someday  would  need  to  choose  among.  The  possibili-  ties  that  lay  before  me  gladdened  him,  as  if  they  widened  or  extended  his  own  future.  Meadowlarks  sang  from  every  hedgerow.  I  don't  think  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  has  much  in  common  with  Montour  Falls,  New  York,  though  I  saw  it  only  for  an  hour  or  so,  walking  its  streets  as  I  waited  for  my  father.  It  is,  I  believe,  much  larger  than  Montour  Falls.  It  doesn't  have  an  agreeable  natural  spec-  tacle  at  the  end  of  its  main  street,  but,  in  my  memory,  it  does  have  a  factory,  by  a  stream,  in  which  pleasant  objects  -pianos  or  some  other  musical  instru-  ments-are  built.  I  had  a  Coke  in  a  drugstore,  and  thewaitress  smiled  at  me.  This  was  theextent  of  my  contact  with  its  inhabitants;  and  yet  I  was  fonder  of  [REDACTED]  than  of  any  place  I  ever  had  lived  in  or  visited  before,  believing  that  eventually  I  would  re-  turn,  marry  somebody  like  the  wait-  ress,  and  have  children  who  loved  me  as  I  would  love  them.  I  would  run  the  hardware  store  or  build  pianos  or  become  editorof  the  newspaper.  My  happiness  in  [REDACTED]  was  a  miraculous  glow  in  the  dark  as  my  father  and  I  travelled  homeward  in  his  secondhand  Packard;  though  it  was  behind  me,  it  was  ahead,  as  mysterious  and  incorpo-  real  as  the  nature  of  God.  ODAY  is  one  of  thin  gray  clouds,  with  sudden  cascades  of  snow  giving  way  to  bursts  of  light.  Whenever  the  sun  shines,  the  win-  dows  of  the  Mint  respond  as  if  an  electrician  in  its  basement  had  flicked  on  the  master  switch.  My  childhood  wonder  at  those  golden  bars  is  one  with  my  adolescent  happiness  in  Ore-  gon,  one  with  my  middle-aged  happi-  ness  in  Montour  Falls,  and  is  a  quality  or  state  that  never  can  change  into  a  baser  form  through  any  reverse  al-  chemy  of  the  human  spirit.  For  I  have  memories  of  two  sorts  of  happiness,  only  one  of  which  is  the  food  of  pres-  ent  discontent;  the  other  is  its  antidote.  The  first  is  based  on  events  leading  up  to  actual  moments  of  fulfillment  -Larry  at  the  pilano-whose  remem-  brance  tells  me  of  times  and  con-  ditions  lost;  the  other,  like  my  re-  sponse  to  the  Mint,  is  separate  from  reality.  Based  on  imagination  and  de-  sire,  immune  to  time  and  vicissitude,  it  is  the  happiness  we  sometimes  hear  in  music  and  find  in  certain  books  and  paintings,  even  though  we  can  dis-  cover  no  particular  melody  or  words  or  images  that  convey  it.  At  the  very  least,  the  recognition  of  this  kind  of  happiness  within  his  own  life  recon-  ciles  a  man  in  his  sixtieth  year  to  the  child  within  him,  enabling  him  to  join  his  wife  in  sifting  through  memora-  bilia  in  order  to  move  a  buffet  and  varnish  a  worn  floor. "