 b"THESE  four  couples  have  differ-  ent  names  and  faces,  but  they  have  one  thing  in  common-a  strong  tendency  to  appear  in  articles  of  this  kind,  because  they  are  fashion  in-  dividualists.  One  couple  may  prefer  an  eclectic  style,  another  retro-amalgam,  another  mongrel  revival,  and  another  mixed-soupcon,  yet  each  couple  stands  on  his  and  her  own  as  a  single,  unique  personality.  They  show  that  to  be  one  ofa  kind  you  have  to  be  one  of  a  pair.  ARTIST  Marie  Bane  (25)  and  col-  lector  Morton  Braine  (30)  dress  in  simple,  bold  fabric  wrappings-col-  orful  bolts  and  mill  ends  layered  directly  onto  the  skin  with  rubber  ce-  ment.  &quot;We  call  it  the  Yardage  [REDACTED];  says  Morton,  whose  current  project  is  winding  all  the  furniture  in  their  Tribeca  penthouse  with  colored  thread  inherited  from  his  grandparents,  Coco  Chanel  and  David  Belasco.  Adds  Marie,  &quot;When  Julian  Schnabel's  show  sold  out,  I  thought  it  was  only  a  mat-  ter  of  time  before  I'd  be  rich,too,  but  then  Morton  and  I  needed  new  outfits  to  be  interviewed  for  this  article.&quot;  Her  clothes:  Scalamandr\xc3\xa9,  Museum  of  Tissues(Lyons),  Taipei  silkworm  farms.  Mad  Frisson  and  Warren  Beatty  for  shoes.  His  clothes:  Porthault,  Einstein  Moomjy.  Galerie  du  Sabot  ([REDACTED])  for  shoes.  Interests:  Oneiromancy,  vacuuming  up  bits  of  thread,  intaglio  hunting,  reading.  Restaurants:  Chive,  La  Petite  Bi\xc3\xa9re,  Imperial  Musk-Polyp,  Charlie's  Bum  Steer,  La  Tricoteuse,  Folie  a  Deux  ([REDACTED]).  NEITHER  William  nor  Mary  Molding  (both  88)  has  bought  any  clothing  in  over  50  years.  They  feel  that  they  have  &quot;subsumed  fashion  under  the  category  of  pure  tradition.&quot;  Both  dress  exclusively  in  what  Mary  calls  &quot;lateral  hand-me-downs:  I  wear  Moldie's  old  clothes  and  he  wears  mine.&quot;  Real-estate  tycoon  William  likes  to  wheel  and  deal  on  their  Park  Avenue  triplex  telex  in  a  Schiaparelli  cocktail  dress,  and  relaxes  later  in  &quot;nothing  at  all  except  a  dab  of  vintage  Shocking  on  pulse  points.&quot;  For  Mary,  founder  of  the  Ghetto  Repair  League  and  president  of  the  Don't  Be  Beastly  to  Congress  Committee,  living  well  still  means  &quot;a  dinner  coat  always&quot;-  the  one  handmade  for  her  husband  in  1909  by  King  Edward  VII  as  a  sweet-  sixteen  party  favor.  Her  clothes:  His.  His  clothes:  Hers.  Interests:  Reading,  telephoning,  telescopes.  Restaurants:  &quot;It  is  impossible  to  go  out.&quot;  Entertain  close  friends  at  amusing  dinners  famous  for  including  musk-  polyps  in  every  course.  AIjNABELLA  Carissima  (&quot;Pat&quot;)  von  Patina  (49),  a  Milan-born  ar-  chitect,  and  Stanley  Sohoux  (18),  for-  mer  collector,  have  shaped  each  other's  design  sensibilities  in  the  ongoing  pro-  cess  of  gradually  removing  everything  they  own  from  their  fabulous  40,000-  square-foot  loft  in  the  bone-meal  dis-  trict.  &quot;I'm  a  bit  big  on  minimalism,&quot;  says  Pat,  &quot;butStan  is  completely  his  own  man  and  has  thrown  away  many  of  his  personal  possessions,  not  just  mine.&quot;  Stan  sometimes  wears  all  his  clothes  at  once  &quot;so  the  spatial  inter-  penetrations  of  the  open-plan  closets  can  be  kept  unobstructed.&quot;  True  to  her  innovative  &quot;less  is  more&quot;  philoso-  phy,  Pat  sticks  to  one  labelfor  clothes  and  keeps  her  efficient  wardrobe  stored  flat  behind  the  ceiling  in  a  crawlspace.  Her  clothes:  Ralph  Racquet  for  Women.  Warren  Beatty  and  Mad  Frisson  for  shoes.  His  clothes:  Ralph  Racquet  for  Women  for  Men.  Interests:  Medicinal-brandy  tastings,  oneiromancy.  Visiting  friends  (Stan).  Reading,  intaglio  disposal  (Pat).  Restaurants:  La  Tricoteuse,  Huis  Clos,  Chive,  Imperial  Musk-Polyp,  Folie  a  Deux  ([REDACTED]).  THE  proprietors  of  Chive,  one  of  the  most  popular  new  dining  places  in  town,  Clive  (35)  and  Olive  (30)  Alive  are  self-proclaimed  &quot;style  immortals.&quot;  Explains  Clive,  &quot;By  translating  ourselves  into  commodities,  we  become  abstract  concepts  of  ex-  change;  for  that  which  hovers  in  a  shop  waiting  to  be  bought  is  an  im-  mutable  idea.  As  long  as  we  are  for  sale,  we  cannot  be  used.&quot;  Every-  thing  in  their  East  Side  apartment  has  its  price  sticker-even  the  much-  mended  antique  purse  seine  covering  the  walls,  to  which  are  pinned  cost-  ly  holograph  pages  from  Richard  Strauss's  &quot;Ariadne  auf  Naxos&quot;  and  inexpensive  crayon  tracings  of  au-  tumn  leaves  from  their  country  es-  tate  (&quot;Macy's  in  Oxfordshire).  The  rare  Sabayon  carpet  invites  a  visi-  tor  to  lift  it  and  explore  the  bargains  beneath.  Both  Clive  and  Olive  cre-  ated  their  own  wardrobes  by  stitch,  ing  together  labels  bought  in  bulk  at  wholesale:  &quot;We  transcend  the  ma-  terial.&quot;  Her  clothes:  Calvin  Mazuma,  Yves  Ducat,  Vittorio  Dinero,  Simoleon,  Made  of  Money.  Mad  Frisson  and  Warren  Beatty  for  shoes;  cobbles  her  own  boots  from  Levi's  labels.  His  clothes:  Mach  Wash  Tumble  Dry,  Property  of  the  Harvard  Athletic  Association,  LL.G.W.U.,  It  Is  HMlegalto  Remove  This  Tag.  Galerie  du  Sabot  ([REDACTED])  for  shoes,  Savile  Row  for  sweatbands,  Bloomingdale's  in  537061696e  for  sneakers  (worn  on  the  wrong  feet).  Interests:  Vacuuming  thread  clippings,  reading,  taking  inventory.  Restaurants:  Betamax  of  Athens,  Imperial  Musk-Polyp,  Folie  a  Deux  ([REDACTED]). "