 b"NOW.  In  time  for  the  eighties:  a  N  love  story  for  the  eighties  star-  ring  a  hero  for  the  eighties  and  a  sex  symbol  for  the  eighties  in  what  just  might  be  the  first  great  American  motion  picture  of  the  eigh-  ties.  He's  a  man  for  the  eighties.  She's  a  woman  for  the  eighties.  He  drives  a  car  for  the  eighties  he  bought  with  the  profits  accrued  from  an  investment  strategy  for  the  eighties.  She  has  the  attitude,  the  career,  and  the  two  kids  of  a  woman  ofthe  eighties-because  she's  a  woman,  and  it's  the  eighties.  In  their  teens  theyexperienced  the  sixties.  In  their  twenties  they  made  it  in  the  seventies.  And  now  they're  in  their  thirties,  because  their  thirties  is  their  age  for  the  eighties.  She's  been  a  ten  since  her  twenties.  He's  shot  golf  in  the  nineties  since  the  sixties.  Together  they're  to  Jackson-  Matthau  in  the  seventies  what  Hep-  burn-  Tracy  were  in  the  forties  to  Rog-  ers-  Astaire  in  the  thirties-in  the  eigh-  ties.  They're  too  young  to  remember  the  fifties  but  not  tooold  to  fall  in  love,  commit  murder,  and  break  all  the  rules  of  life  in  the  eighties.  He's  surviving  his  own  life  as  he  lives  it  in  the  eighties,  because  he's  a  survivor.  She's  coping  with  living  life  as  life  is  lived  in  the  eighties,  because  she's  a  coper.  Together  they  know  that  life  in  the  eighties  is  nothing  like  what  it  was  beforethe  eighties-and  the  two  of  them  are  living  it  together  in  the  eighties,  because  together  they're  a  couple  of  livers.  Her  hair  color?  A  hair  color  for  the  eighties.  And  when  she  needs  to  get  dressed,  she  wears  the  dressy  sports-  wear  specially  created  for  life  in  the  eighties.  Sure,  sometimes  he  gets  a  lousy  headache.  And  when  he  wants  fast  relief  from  the  tensions,  pressures,  and  lousy  headaches  of  living  life  in  the  eighties,  he  fights  back  with  a  one-  man  display  of  martial-arts  fury  de-  signed  for  life  in  the  fast,  tense  eigh-  ties.  Not  life  in  the  less  tense  seventies.  Not  life  in  the  even  tenser  nineties.  Life  now.  She's  a  Julietfor  the  eighties.  (Her  father,  now  in  his  eighties,  was  born  in  the  nineties,  and  made  millions  in  the  twenties.)  He's  a  Romeo  for  the  eighties.  (His  mother,  born  in  the  twenties,  died  in  the  sixties-and  left  him  thousands  in  fifties  and  hun-  dreds.)  Together  they're  Napoleon  and  Josephine  for  the  eighties,  in  a  motion  picture  for  the  eighties  made  by  people  mostly  in  their  forties.  It's  a  film  about  their  life-and  our  life-brought  to  life  as  only  this  direc-  tor  can  bring  it;  a  man  Time  has  called  &quot;a  Mike  Nichols  for  the  nine-  ties&quot;  and  Newsweek  hails  as  &quot;the  Ashby-the  Lester  (the  Wilder-the  Cukor,  'the  Lubitsch  of  the  forties,'  of  the  fifties-of  the  sixties)  of  the  seven-  ties-of  the  eighties.&quot;  It's  a  story  for  the  eighties,  about  the  eighties,  in  a  film  you  will  never  forget  until  the  nineties.  Two  people,  born  in  the  fifties  and  now  in  their  thirties,  finding  life  in  the  eighties  as  only  they  can  find  it.  Now.  Coming  next  year. "