 b"ROYAL  woke  up  feeling  expansive,  his  head  comfortably  stabilized  between  two  blue  pillows.  Naomi,  his  girlfriend,  was  already  in  the  shower  as  usual.  He  raised  his  arms  (the  diver  preparing  a  difficult  dive)  and  said,  &quot;Up,  up,  up!&quot;  -but  instead  of  getting  up  he  let  his  arms  collapse  back  randomly  on  the  bed.  He  sighed.  Should  he  resign  from  his  job?  Should  he  resign  from  his  job  and  become,  let's  say,  a  master  furniture-  maker,  spending  his  days  in  a  shop  hung  with  the  traditional  apparatus  of  cabinet  craft-mallets,  chisels,  deft  lit-  tle  saws,  glue  guns?  There  would  be  real  pleasure  in  knowing  how  to  wield  a  glue  gun.  His  furniture  designs  would  glance  sidelong  at  the  Baroque  -as,  for  example,  in  his  epic  dresser  with  fifteen  helical  legs  of  palisander,  lathe-turned  according  to  equations  taken  from  Leonardo  and  Archimedes.  He  had  a  drum-shaped  Shop-Vac  to  tame  the  drifts  of  pink  sawdust  (ap-  peasing  the  fire  marshals),  and  a  CET  A  assistant  patient  enough  to  stand  for  an  entire  night  holding  together  two  pieces  of  satinwood  so  the  glue  would  set  properly,  for  no  C-clamp  could  consummate  the  delicate  bonds  re-  quired.  Ah!  Do  not  forget  his  path-  breaking  bentwood  desk.  Those  airy  thoroughfares  of  beech!  (Unusually  high  torque  stresses,  a  major  stumbling  block,  were  neutralized  along  the  principles  of  Buckminster  Fuller's  Tensegrity  Geodesics.)  Those  twen-  ty-seven  partitioned  drawers!  (Each  of  them  slid  open  at  the  sound  of  a  specific  word-&quot;maps,&quot;  &quot;cufflinks&quot;&quot;-  for  such  was  the  monastic  care  Royal  lavished  on  runner  alignment.  He  glimpsed  himself  in  various  poses:  at  the  green  sketch  pad,  pursuing  a  rock-  er  design  with  loose  flourishes  of  his  blunt  grease  pencil,  or  at  a  one-man  show  on  Fifty-seventh  Street,  watch-  ing  the  guests  run  their  hands  over  his  smooth  wood  surfaces  with  the  distant  smile  that  only  smooth  wood  surfaces  evoke,  or  doing  inlay  work,  head  within  inches  of  the  incision,  risking  for  the  sake  of  his  craft  overinhalation  of  the  toxic  resin  fumes,  or,  finally,  stowing  his  rasps  at  the  end  of  the  day  and  walking  out  across  the  steaming  lawn,  past  the  bush  of  Father  Hugo  roses  that  had  nodded  all  afternoon  under  the  harassment  of  large,  furry  bees,  some  of  which  drifted,  abdomens  drooping,  into  the  shop  todiein  dresser  drawers.  Naomi  reawakened  him  by  pull-  ing  the  sock  off  his  right  foot.  Her  coat  and  gloves  were  on.  This  morn-  ing  she  was  compassionate.  &quot;It's  day-  light  in  the  marshes,&quot;  she  said.  Five  minutes  later  Royal  stood  in  front  of  the  mirror  contemplating  the  pinkorigami  pattern  that  wrinkles  in  the  pillowcase  had  impressed  on  his  cheek.  I  have  no  self-discipline  and  I  deserve  to  die,  he  thought.  In  the  shower  he  fell  asleep  briefly  while  shampooing,  eyes  closed,  warm  suds  swamping  his  head  and  beard;  when  he  perked  up,  he  had  forgotten  whether  he  had  truly  shampooed  or  only  dreamed  it,  so  he  lathered  again  to  be  sure,.  AT  work  three  cups  of  tea  final-  ly  got  him  moving  (he  sucked  the  cold  tea  bags  for  maximal  caf-  feine,  revolting  his  secretary),  and  he  was  able  to  zip  through  the  morning,  alert  and  incisive,  filling  an  entire  pagewithmunicipal-bond  statistics.  Af-  ter  lunch,  however,  his  momentum  flagged.  He  eyed  the  calculator.  A  small,  cost-effective  nap  would  be  re-  warding,  he  thought.  Why  as  a  child  had  he  never  been  sleepy?  You  are  miles  under  the  blue  tropi-  cal  sea,&quot;  young  Royal's  mother  would  whisper  when  she  put  him  to  bed.  &quot;All  the  fishes  in  the  reef  are  getting  sleepy.  The  oysters  are  closing  up,  and  the  sharks  are  dozing  off,  and  all  the  tiny  rainbow  fish  are  motionless  in  the  wa-  ter,  breathing  gently,  and  the  only  sound  is  the  sound  of  the  pale  anem-  ones  going  fwoosh,  fwoosh,  fwoosh.  ...&quot;  Royal  would  pretend  to  fall  asleep,  but  under  the  lids  he  re-  mained  one  of  those  embittered  coel-  acanths,  awake  and  watchful  for  thou-  sands  of  years.  In  the  morning  he  would  be  upwith  the  first  bird,  noting  by  feel  that  a  recent  elbow  laceration  had  scabbed  over  nicely.  That  had  been  sleep's  one  positive  feature  when  he  was  small:  scabs  matured,  turning  the  sumptuous  color  of  his  father's  [REDACTED].  During  those  days  everyone  around  him  slept.  The  cat,  Cannonball,  dozed  steadily,  squandering  her  life,  drugged  by  the  pungent  juices  of  the  bluebottles  she  ate  in  the  afternoon  window.  Royal  would  sneak  up  to  her  as  she  lay  on  the  Oriental  rug,  in  a  tessellation  of  sunlight,  and  make  her  ear  flick  by  touching  its  white  Venus's-flytrap  hairs  with  a  pencil.  He  did  this  repeat-  edly,  soullessly.  Finally  the  cat  half  opened  her  eyes:  &quot;Poking  my  ear  gives  you  pleasure?&quot;  'The  dog,  [REDACTED],  chewed  the  legs  of  the  antique  clothes  tree  until  the  coats  fell  in  a  heap;  the  old  shellac  knocked  him  out  for  the  " b"rest  of  the  day.  Royal,  satanic,  would  lift  [REDACTED]'s  warm  earflap,  exposing  a  vortex  of  cartilage,  and  whisper,  &quot;Hey,  Les,  dog  of  dogs,  what's  going  on  in  there?&quot;  [REDACTED]  would  jump  up,  trembling  and  wild-eyed,  whereupon  Royal  would  say,  &quot;Never  mind,  Les,  nothing  that  important,&quot;  and  pat  him  back  to  sleep.  Royal  even  approached  his  five-year-old  sister  during  her  nap  to  observe  (the  young  scientist)  the  little  domes  of  her  corneas  commuting  from  corner  to  corner  as  she  dreamed.  Once,  he  actually  thumbed  back  an  eyelid,  disclosing  the  reclusive,  swivel-  ling  ball,  and  then  tiptoed  frantically  out  of  the  room,  undetected.  The  phone  rang  and  Royal,  star-  tled,  raised  his  hands  as  if  in  surren-  der.  Before  answering,  hesang  several  loud  notes  (&quot;Doot!  Doot!  Doot!&quot;)  to  clear  the  sleep  from  his  voice.  A  paper  clip  stuck  tohis  forehead.  &quot;Royal?&quot;  said  an  unfamiliar  voice.  &quot;Dirk  Deep  speaking  for  SleepSharers.  I'm  calling  you  because  I  had  a  feeling  you  might  appreciate  my  sharing  with  you  the  opportunity  to  sign  up  for  a  program  that's  really  a  lifesaver  for  people  like  you  and  mewho  don't  have  time  to  sleep  as  much  as  our  body  and  brain  seem  to  want  or  need  to.  Got  a  second?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  I  do,&quot;  said  Royal.  Try  to  listento  what  the  cheerful  man  is  say-  ing,  he  thought.  &quot;The  program  is  called  Sleep-  Sharers,&quot;  Dirk  Deep  continued,  &quot;and  I'm  telling  you  it  was  a  lifesaver  for  me  when  I  was  in  school-in  fact  I  loved  it  so  much  I'm  now  heading  up  the  company's  sales  operation.  So  here's  what  it  involves.  What  you  do  is  you  put  a  deposit  down  on  this  Sleep  Diode.  Now,  a  Sleep  Diode  is  this  clear  transparent  polyhedron-i.e.,   with  lots  of  sides-they  developed  out  at  El  Paso  for  NASA  so  the  astronauts  could  increase  their  productive  time  in  orbit,  but  now  SleepSharers  has  franchised  this  thing,  and  what  it  in-  volves  is  you  kneel  before  the  Sleep  Diode  andyou  tell  it  how  much  sleep  credit  you  want  to  charge,  and  this  Diode  takes  your  sleep  need  and  ac-  cumulates  it,  and  transmits  its  digital  equivalent  to  this  loft  we've  got  where  we've  got  people  who  will  actually,  literally,  do  your  sleeping  for  you,  so  that  you  have  the  time  to  do  those  things  you've  always  wanted  to  do,  be  they  job-related  orbe  they  recreational  in  nature,  or  whatever.&quot;  &quot;Whatever  they  be?&quot;  said  Royal.  &quot;Yessir.  And  it's  completely  safe.&quot;  &quot;Expensive?&quot;  &quot;Not  for  substantial  individuals  such  as  yourself.&quot;  Royal  grilled  Dirk  Deep  on  the  de-  " b"tails,  and  the  concept  seemed  legiti-  mate,  so  after  work  he  went  down  to  [REDACTED],  put  a  deposit  on  a  Sleep  Diode,  and  was  instructed  in  its  proper  use.  AOMI  walked  in  while  he  was  bowed  before  the  luminous  Di-  ode  that  evening.  To  plug  it  in,  he  had  unplugged  the  clock  radio:  the  time  said  seven-twenty-three,  eleven  min-  utes  earlier.  He  still  had  his  coat  on.  &quot;Jazzy  night  light,&quot;  said  Naomi.  &quot;Why  is  the  phone  off  the  hook?&quot;  Royal's  voice  was  muffled,  because  his  forehead  was  pressed  against  his  knees.  &quot;Sleep  Diode,  Sleep  Diode,  do  me  afay-vor.  Soak  up  my  sleep,  which  I  will  pay  for.  Don't  heng  it  up,  Naomi,  that's  the  linkup!  Diode,  again,  I  wish  you  to  absorb  three  nights'  worth  of  my  sleep  needs,  which  your  Sleep  Drones  in  [REDACTED]  will  sleep  off  for  me  at  their  leisure.&quot;  He  gave  his  Visa  card  number.  &quot;I  don't  know  if  it  heard  me,&quot;  he  saidto  Naomi  confi-  dentially.  It  had.  When  night  rolled  around,  YES,  BUT  Even  if  it  were  true,  Even  if  I  were  dead  and  buried  in  4974616c79,  I  believe  I  would  come  out  and  wash  my  face  In  the  chill  spring.  I  believe  I  would  appear  Between  noon  and  four,  when  nearly  Everybody  else  is  asleep  or  making  love,  And  all  the  Germans  turned  down,  the  motorcycles  Muffled,  chained,  still.  Then  the  plump  lizards  along  the  Adige  by  San  Giorgio  Come  out  and  gaze,  he  felt  not  a  hint  of  drowsiness.  After  Naomi  had  gone  to  bed,  he  cooked  up  a  mound  of  Ronzoni  shells  and  waited  for  sleep  to  take  it  from  there.  Instead  he  felt  energetic,  confident,  able.  &quot;'This  may  work!&quot;  he  said.  He  spent  the  rest  of  the  night  watching  cable  and  reading  the  articles  on  gardening,  bridge,  art,  and  stamps  in  the  paper.  He  capered  into  the  office  anhour  early.  Dirk  Deep  called  at  ten  to  follow  up.  &quot;Dirk,  Dirk,  this  is  incredible,&quot;  said  Royal.  &quot;I  was  awake  all  night  planning  a  big  canvas  on  the  Annun-  ciation-subliminal,  of  course,  but  very  productive,  some  sound  ideas-  and  right  now  I'm  bright  as  a  berry.  Things  are  opening  up.&quot;  &quot;Life  lived  to  the  utmost,&quot;  said  Dirk  Deep.  &quot;Can  you  believe  this  newfound  authority  and  urgency  in  my  voice?&quot;  &quot;Full  ahead!&quot;  said  Dirk  Deep.  'T  ake  back  the  night!&quot;  During  the  next  two  weeks  Royal  charged  all  but  one  night  of  sleep.  His  reading  accelerated,  and  heburned  through  Fulgentius,  Quiller-Couch,  and  Hermesianax  of  Colophon.  He  be-  came  attached  to  the  intimate  sounds  of  percolating  coolant  in  his  refrigera-  tor;  when  the  compressor  switched  on,  it  momentarily  dimmed  the  lone  light  by  his  chair.  Next  he  decided  that  as  a  potential  cultural  titan  he  needed  to  embrace  human  personality  in  all  its  forms.  Living  on  Pepperidge  Farm  Goldfish,  he  drifted  from  party  to  party,  engag-  ing  in  hundreds  of  man-hours  of  con-  versation.  He  used  the  phrases  &quot;barn-  storming  the  citadels  of&quot;  and  &quot;Ho  Jesus  I  don't  know  anymore&quot;  over  five  hundred  times  each.  He  chatted  about  fibre-glass  hull  designs  with  Dustin  Hoffman,  explained  to  Brooke  Shields  what  &quot;10-4-2&quot;on  fertilizer  sacks  meant,  admired  Leonard  Bernstein's  cigarette  holder.  Susan  Sontag  kindly  called  his  attention  to  a  fleck  of  dip  on  his  beard.  &quot;Good  preparation,&quot;  Royal  said  to  himself.  &quot;Laying  the  ground-  work.&quot;     " b"\n He  called  up  well-known  conceptual  artists  at  a  quarter  to  four  in  the  morn-  ing  and  said,  &quot;Hil  What's  on  the  grid-  dle?  Any  new  projects?  You're  being  taped:  this  is  my  latest  work.  I  quote  from  your  1972  interview:  'All  that  is  truly  new,  and  not  merely  fascist  breast-beating,  involves  the  grammar  of  harassment.&quot;  &quot;  Though  he  begged  Naomi  to  kneel  before  the  Sleep  Diode  with  him  (&quot;Be  a  coelacanth,  like  me&quot;),  she  refused  to  participate.  &quot;I'm  starting  to  worry  about  you,&quot;  she  said.  \xc2\xab'Nonsense,&quot;  said  Royal.  &quot;I'm  leveraging  my  creative  capital.&quot;  ONE  morning,  however,  he  noticed  that  the  Sleep  Diode  had  begun  to  darken.  Call  Dirk  Deep  re  dark  Diode,  he  wrote  in  his  Daily  Re-  minder;  that  evening  he  charged  a  solid  month  of  sleep.  Each  successive  second  held  new  rewards.  He  clipped  his  fingernails  in  the  elevator,  syn-  ergizing  to  reduce  time  spent  on  mun-  dane  activities.  At  the  office  his  regres-  sion  analyses  relating  per-capita  debt  levels  to  road  upkeep  earned  him  the  grudging  respect  of  his  boss.  But  his  real  work  was  at  night.  In  a  parox-  ysm  of  creative  energy,  he  started  doz-  ens  of  projects:  a  screenplay  that  opened  with  a  helicopter  shot  of  a  nun  on  a  beach  covered  with  hundreds  of  lurching  seals  (that's  as  far  as  he  got);  a  concordance,  with  relative  word  fre-  quencies,  to  Joyce  Carol  Oates;  an  epic  that  began,  &quot;If  I  could  fold  up  the  Sun  in  an  Omelet/What  an  Omelet  that  would  be!&quot;  (that's  as  far  as  he  got);  a  series  of  frescoes  based  on  the  life  of  Daniel  Patrick  Moynihan;  a  verse  drama  on  same.  He  approached  the  State  Department:  could  he  encode  top  defense  secrets  in  the  tone  rows  of  his  piano  sonata?  Anxious  not  to  appear  provincial,  the  Department  agreed,  but  Royal  had  already  moved  on  to  other  media.  &quot;Royal,&quot;  said  Naomi,  &quot;you  have  a  haunted  look.  I  don't  like  this  Diode.  Your  eyes  are  sunken  and  you've  lost  the  lovableness  you  had  when  you  -James  WricH1  (1927-1980)  were  sleepy.  I  frankly  can't  get  any  rest  myself  with  you  pulling  my  eyelids  open  all  the  time.&quot;  &quot;'There's  a  purpose  to  that,&quot;  said  Royal.  &quot;It's  research  for  an  opera  I'm  blocking  out.  I'm  going  to  call  it  Naomi.&quot;  It's  going  to  be  all  about  you,  and  it's  going  to  be  very  poignant.  In  the  love  duet  I  pluck  the  long  tendons  behind  your  knees  like  bass  strings.  I  shoot  around  the  bobsled  track  of  your  ear  cartilage  singing  Russian  songs.&quot;  &quot;That  is  nice.  Thank  you.  But  I  still  think  you're  not  completely  ..  .&quot;  Royal  brushed  aside  her  doubts,  but  little  by  little  he  began,  without  know-  ing  why,  to  move  more  slowly.  He  didn't  feel  tired;  it  just  took  him  a  long  time  to  do  things.  He  couldn't  bring  a  match  up  to  flaring  velocity.  Elevator  doors  bounced  off  his  shoulders  several  times  as  heboarded.  He  dialled  Dirk  Deep.  Slowly  he  said,  &quot;I  think  I  need  a  new  Diode.  Mine  is  wearing  down.  It  is  all  dark.&quot;  &quot;Royal,&quot;  said  Dirk,  &quot;you're  head-  " b"ing  toward  what  we  like  to  call  a  Slowdown.  Your  Diode  darkens  as  your  unfunded  sleep  credits  accumu-  late  inthere.  You  know  you  owe  close  to  seven  and  a  half  thousand  dollars  in  unfunded  sleep  credits?  Have  you  been  getting  our  printouts?&quot;  Royal  stared  into  space.  &quot;I  am  ever  wakeful,&quot;  he  said,  and  hung  up.  He  crept  toward  the  Sleep  Diode,  now  the  color  of  obsidian.  Destroy  it  and  I  erase  my  debts,  he  was  thinking.  He  banged  it  against  the  refrigerator.  Nothing.  He  boiled  it  for  an  hourand  a  half.  Nothing.  Finally,  in  slow  motion,  he  lifted  one  end  of  the  couch,  posi-  tioned  the  Diode  under  it,  and  let  go.  A  chink  appeared.  Under  repeated  blows  this  widened  to  a  crack,  out  of  which  seeped  an  icy,  low-lying  black  fog  that  spread  silently  across  the  floor.  Presently  it  filled  the  room  to  knee  level.  He  heard  a  tap  at  the  door.  T  wo  blind  men  were  there,  with  ebony  canes.  &quot;We  smell  it,&quot;  said  one.  &quot;&quot;We  are  Sleep  Collectors,&quot;  said  the  other.  &quot;You  owe  close  to  seven  and  a  half  thousand  dollars  in  unfunded  sleep  credits.  The  Sleep  Diode  has  been  abused:  two  to  threeparsecs  of  untreated  sleep  have  been  allowed  to  escape.  Come.&quot;  &quot;I  am  in  deep  trouble,&quot;  said  Royal.  They  led  him  away,  tapping  in  tan-  dem.  Dirk  Deep  was  waiting  at  the  [REDACTED]  office.  &quot;I  hate  to  do  this,  Royal,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;but  Sleep  Diode  abuse  is  a  pret-  ty  grave  thing,  andyou  can  under-  stand  that  it's  got  to  nullify  your  credit  standing  with  us.  We're  unfor-  tunately  going  to  have  to  ask  for  the  full  amount  of  back  sleep  right  now.&quot;  Royal,  eyes  rolling,  was  hallucinat-  inga  scorpion  inhis  shirt  pocket.  &quot;If  you  don't  remit,&quot;  said  Dirk,  &quot;you  will  die  of  REM  deprivation.  It's  an  unpleasant  process-you  are  feeling  its  first  effects.  There  is  only  one  other  scenario.&quot;  He  raised  a  finger.  &quot;Become  a  Sleep  Drone.&quot;  &quot;Drone,  drone,  drone,&quot;  Royal  in-  toned  mindlessly.  &quot;That's  what  I  like  to  hear,&quot;  said  Dirk.  &quot;Now,  we  have  performed  an  analysis  of  your  Diode  signal.  You're  very  rare:  you  have  a  Rutherford  neg-  ative-ion  capability.  That  means  you  are  sleep-compatible  with  some  of  the  most  successful  printmakers,  potters,  painters,  et  al.,  et  al.,  around.  Very  many  members  of  the  avant-garde  have  repeatedly  contacted  me,  desiring  to  charge  some  wakefulness  and  boost  salable  art  output,  but  we  have  up  till  now  been  unable  to  design  a  Diode Plan  uniquely  suited  to  their  needs  because  we  have  lacked  someone  whose  negative-ion  capability  jibes  with  theirs.&quot;  Royal  sat  up  inhischair.  &quot;Mine  jibes?  Mine  jibes?&quot;  &quot;We  will  pay  you  handsomely  if  you  sleep  for  us,  permanently.&quot;  &quot;Can  I  free-lance?&quot;  &quot;All  or  nothing.&quot;  After  Dirk  Deep  had  briefed  him  further,  he  called  Naomi.  &quot;Naomi,  my  rainbow,  something  really  big  has  come  up  and  I've  got  to  go  to  sleep  for  the  rest  of  my  life.&quot;  &quot;Life?&quot;  &quot;Trust  me.  I  know  this  is  startling.  Hang  in.  This  could  be  a  major  water-  shed.  It's  very  lucrative,  and  I  really  think  it's  the  thing  I'm  best  at.  I'll  be  doing  the  sleeping  for  Ralph  Zabor,  who  does  those  low-fired  ceramic  hose  environments?  And,  ready?  Cynthic  537564616e-those  haunting  video  tattoos!  D.  S.  Charmon,  possibly  Frank  Pecks.  Huge  names.  It's  a  lot  of  responsibil-  ity.  Naomi?&quot;  &quot;No  one  has  ever  brokenup  with  me  likethis  before,&quot;  said  Naomi.  &quot;That's  not  the  way  to  view  it!  I'll  be  in  the  midst  of  artistic  ferment.  Plus  I  can  cancel  at  any  time.&quot;  &quot;Royal,  if  you  do  this  I  will  leave  you.&quot;  Nonetheless  Royal  signeda  con-  sciousness  release  form  and  prepared  to  sleep  for  the  cutting  edge  ofculture.  He  was  wheeled  into  a  high-ceilinged  room  filled  with  shrouded  forms  on  mattresses.  A  technician  walkedup  with  a  handful  of  multicolored  elec-  trodes.  &quot;'Take  me,&quot;  said  Royal.  VERY  April,  Dirk  Deep  woke  him  to  sign  his  tax  returns.  &quot;Have  the  ice  caps  melted?&quot;  Royal  would  inquire;  reassured,  he  sank  back  to  work.  But  the  Minimal  Conceptu-  alists  for  whom  he  slept  slowly  lost  favor  with  galleries,  their  places  taken  by  artists  of  more  conventional  sleep  habits-exponents  of  the  so-called  Warming  Trend.  With  Rutherford  negative-ion  demand  slumping,  Dirk  Deep  decided  to  prune  idle  Drone  ca-  pacity;  after  six  years  and  four  months,  Royal  was  disconnected.  Refreshed  and  cheerful,  he  rejoined  the  world,  following  a  period  of  agonizing  physi-  cal  therapy.  The  first  thing  he  did  was  to  get  in  touch  with  Naomi.  She  had  married  and  divorced.  In  bed  she  told  him  about  her  thesis;  who  had  been  denied  tenure;  who  was  President  ofthe  [REDACTED]  " b"   &quot;But  what  I  want  to  know,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;is  what  people  like  Ralph  Zabor  and  Cynthia  537564616edream  about.&quot;  &quot;Well,&quot;  said  Royal,  &quot;at  first,  when  they're  just  dozing  off,  it's  the  stan-  dard  images:  tumbling  through  flocks  of  down  vests,  exploding  spores,  leaf  piles  of  dollar  bills,  silent  heaps  of  hot  laundry,  and  so  on.  Then,  blem-sex,  sex,sex.  Once  in  a  great  while,  art.  Awful!  There  I  am,  dreaming  about  you,  when  all  of  a  sudden  one  of  Cynthia  537564616e's  art  dreams  forces  its  way  in:  curved  steel  forms  being  in-  stalled  by  crane  in  throughway  clover-  leafs  across  the  nation.  After  a  while  it  was  a  nightmare.  D.  S.  Charmon's  mitten  holograms  were  the  worst.&quot;  &quot;Scandalous,&quot;  Naomi  murmured.  &quot;You're  falling  asleep,  aren't  you?&quot;  said  Royal.  He  began  to  whisper.  &quot;Ba-  sically,  Naomi,  the  whole  reef  is  bed-  ding  down.  Fwoosh.  Your  trouts  are  hitting  the  sack,  your  jellyfish  has  on  her  slinky  nightgown,  your  dugong  is  wailing  his  nightly  prayer,  your  myr-  iad  phytoplanktons  have  winked  out,  your  scrods  are  snoring,  and  your  squids,  having  donned  their  crotchless  panties,  are  waving  good  night,  good  night  with  all  their  tentacles.  Fwoosh.  Naomi?&quot;  She  didn't  answer.  Royal  slowed  his  breathing  to  synchronize  with  hers.  Was  it  not  time  to  begin  writing  his  memoirs?  He  could  cast  them  in  rhyme,  perhaps  heroic  couplets,  and  dedicate  them  to  her:  &quot;The  Drone's  Confession.&quot;  He  could  complete  them  with  his  Dictaphone,  on  a  Southern  porch  overlooking  a  stately  croquet  game.  (This  would  most  likely  be  af-  ter  he  had  retired  as  a  master  furni-  ture-maker.)  Pondering  his  first  lines,  As  winds  of  flannel  soothe  the  tattered  palms,  Rum  tum  te  tum,  the  chastened  bay  becalms,  he  would  gradually  nod  off,  awakened  some  years  later  by  a  distant  chain  saw,  or  was  it-was  it  the  sudden  slushy  buzz  of  the  kitchen  blender,  in  which  Naomi  was  churning  exotic  fruits  into  a  pastel-colored  semi-liq-  uid?  Naomi  brought  the  pitcher  and  glasses  out  on  a  silver  tray,  beside  the  galleys  of  Royal's  book,  a  limited  edi-  tion,  soon  to  be  printed  on  hand-hung  paper  made  from  pulp  as  rich  as  the  drink  he  now  dreamed  inhis  hand-  quince,  banana,  sea  cucumber,  the  ab-  domens  of  bees,  the  flesh  of  river-  soaked  logs,  the  maroon  washcloth  he  had  chewed  on  in  the  bathtub  as  a  child. "