 b"DEar  Eminent  Parron  or  tHE    Mam  Orper  Arts,  Imagine  a  collector's  item  so  exquisitely  detailed  that  each  is  ac-  tually  imuisible  to  the  naked  eye.  Think  of  an  heirloom  solimited  in  availability  that  when  you  order  it,  the  mint  specially  constructed  to  craft  it  will  be  demolished.  Ponder  an  item  so  precious  that  its  value  has  actually  tripled  since  you  began  reading  this.  Kiln-Fired  in  Edible  24-Calorie  Silver  Never  before  in  human  history  has  the  Polk  McKinley  Harding  Coolidge  Mint  (not  a  [REDACTED]  Government  body)  commissioned  such  a  rarity.  Consider:  miniaturepewterine  reproductions,  authenticated  by  the  World  Court  at  The  Hague  and  sent  to  you  in  moisture-re-  sistant  Styrofoam  chests,  of  the  front-door  letter  slots  of  Holly-  wood's  36  most  beloved  charac-  ter  actors  and  actresses.  A  special  blue-ribbon  Advisory  Panel  will  insure  that  the  Foundation  Council's  certificated  and  inscribed  in-  signia  is  approved  by  Her  Majesty's  Master  of  Heralds  before  the  applica-  tion  deadline.  Meanwhile,  they  are  yours  to  in-  spect  in  the  privacy  of  your  home,  office,  shop,  or  den  for  twenty  years  by  express  permission,  already  with-  drawn,  of  the  Polk  McKinley  Harding  Coolidge  Mint-the  only  mint  autho-  rized  to  stamp  your  application  with  its  own  seal.  The  equivalent  of  three  centu-  ries  of  painstaking  historical  re-  search,  supervised  by  the  [REDACTED]  Bureau  of  Mines,  has  preceded  this  issue  of  The  Ornamental  Handles  of  the  Walking  Canes  of  the  Hohenzollern  Princelings.  Our  miniature  craftsmen  have  de-  signed,  cast,  struck,  etched,  forged,  and  finished  these  authentic  reproduc-  tions-not  available  in  any  store,  even  before  they  were  commissioned-liter-  ally  without  regard  for  quality.  Certified  by  the  American  Kennel  Club  But  now,  through  a  special  arrange-  ment  with  the  Postmaster  General  of  the  Republic  of  San  Marino,  this  72-  piece  commemorative  plinth,  honoring  The  Footprints  of  the  Great  Jewel  Thieves  of  the  FrenchRiviera-each  encased  in  its  own  watered-silk  caddy  that  revolves  360  degrees  on  genuine  Swedish  steel  ball  bearings-has  been  cancelled.  A  unique  way,  you  will  agree,  of  introducing  you  and  your  loved  ones  to  The  Great  Cookie  Jars  of  the  Res-  toration,  just  as  Congreve  the  boy  must  have  pilfered  from.  They  are  so  authentic  that  you  can  actually  smell  them  with  your  nose.  And  don't  forget:  every  set  of  hand-  fired  porcelain  reproductions  of  The  Padlocks  of  the  Free  World's  Great  Customs  Houses  comes  sealed  in  an  airtight  cask,  fashioned  after  the  shoe  locker  of  a  Mogul  emperor  so  famous  that  we  are  prohibited  from  disclosing  his  name.  12  Men  Died  to  Make  the  Ingots  Perfect  But  why,  as  a  prudent  investor,  should  you  spend  thousands  of  dollars,  every  month  for  a  lifetime,  to  acquire  this  88-piece  set  of  Official  Diplomatic  License  Plates  of  the  World's  Great  Governments-in-  Exile?  One  [REDACTED]  collector  comments,  &quot;I  never  expected  to  buy  an  item  so  desirable  that  it  has  already  kept  its  haunting  fascination  forever.&quot;  But  even  this  merely  hints  at  the  extraordinary  investment  potential  of  the  Connoisseur's  Choice  selection  of  Great  Elevator  Inspection  Certificates  of  the  World's  Tallest  Buildings.  Molded  in  unobtainable  molyb-  denum,  each  is  precision-ejected  from  a  flying  aircraft  to  check  a  zinc  content  that  must  measure  [REDACTED]  per  cent  or  the  en-  tire  batch  will  be  melted  down,  discarded,  and  forgotten.  But  &quot;keepsake&quot;  is  an  inadequate  term.  Your  Jubilee  Edition  of  the  566  Tunic  Buttons  of  the  World's  Leg-  endary  Hotel  Porters  will  take  you  from  New  York  City  to  San  Francisco  to  [REDACTED]  Kong  to  [REDACTED]  ...  and  then  actually  pay  your  way  back  home.  There  is  one  more  aspectfor  you  to  consider  before  refusing  this  offer.  39  If  you  wish,  you  can  have  The  Le-  valiere  Mikes  of  TV's  Greatest  Talk  Show  Celebrity  Guests,  custom-  mounted  on  driftwood  plaques  that  serve  as  175  dainty  TV  snack  tables-  free.  There  is,  of  course,  a  surcharge  and  a  handling  fee,  as  well  as  the  55  per  cent  duplication  cost.  But  so  amazing  is  this  offer  that  you  need  only  pay  this  levy  once-and  never  again  be  both-  ered  by  it  in  your  mortal  life.  If  for  whatever  reason  you  elect  not  to  purchase  the  complimentary  To-  kens  of  the  World's  Great  Subway  Systems,  you  still  profit:  The  solid-gold  Venetien  Gon-  dolier's  Boat  Pole  Toothpick  and  velvet-lined  presentation  case  are  yours  to  treasure  for  as  long  as  this  incredible  offer  lasts.  Our  Distinctive  Axe  Marks  of  the  Immortal  Brazilian  Rubber  Planters  are  in  such  short  supply  that  an  ad-  vance  application  in  your  name  is  al-  ready  reserved  for  you.  To  protect  your  investment,  zone  will  be  made.  Registered  with  the  Department  of  Motor  Vehicles  A  dazzling  proposition,  you  will  agree.  If  you  do  not,  your  560-piece  set  of  [REDACTED]'s  Most  Cherished  Waffle  Patterns,  together  with  your  check  or  money  order,  will  be  buried  at  sea  on  or  before  midnight,  April  15,  1982-the  70th  anniversary,  college-  trained  historians  tell  us,  of  thesink-  ing  of  R.M.S.  Titanic,  one  of  the  66  Great  Marine  Disasters  commemo-  rated  in  this  never-yet-offered  series,  each  individually  bronzed,  annealed,  Martinized,  and  hickory-cured  by  skilled  artisans  working  under  the  su-  pervision  of  the  Tulane  University  Board  of  Regents.  Please  note  that  each  comes  wrapped  in  authentic  [REDACTED]  At-  lantic  seaweed,  its  salt  content  confirmed  by  affidavit.  Best  of  all,  you  need  not  order.  Sim-  ply  steal  a  new  Rolls-Royce,  fence  it,  and  turn  the  bills  into  small  denomi-  nations  of  used  money  ([REDACTED]  currency  only,  please).  No  salesman  will  call.  The  Polk  McKinley  Harding  Coo-  lidge  Mint  is  not  a  [REDACTED]  Government  body.  This  is  not  an  offering.  Tus  Pork  McKinuey  Haromce  Mini  [REDACTED]  If  you  have  already  begun  your  Napkin  Rings  of  the  State  Supreme  Court  Dining  Rooms  collection,  please  disregard. "