 b"SOME  men  give  their  children  sound  advice  about  property  and  investment.  The  elder  Pugh  had  the  nerve  to  give  advice  about  mar-  riage-this  to  the  son  of  a  wife  he  had  deserted.  He  was  in  [REDACTED]  on  a  visit  and  had  come  round  to  see  what  Larry  was  up  to.  It  was  during  the  hot,  quiet  summer  of  1954.  Larry  was  caretaking  for  July  and  August.  He  had  the  run  of  sixteen  dust-sheeted  rooms,  some  overlooking  the  Parc  de  Monceau,  some  looking  straight  onto  the  shuttered  windows  of  other  stone  houses.  Twice  a  week  a  woman  arrived  to  clean  and,  Larry  supposed,  to  make  sure  he  hadn't  stolen  anything.  He  was  not  a  thief-only  a  planner.  His  plans  required  the  knowledge  of  where  things  were  kept  and  what  they  amounted  to.  After  a  false  start  as  a  sculptor  he  was  trying  to  find  an  open  road.  He  went  through  the  drawers  and  closets  left  un-  locked  and  came  across  a  number  of  towels  and  bathmats  and  blankets  stolen  from  hotels;  pilfering  of  that  sort  was  one  of  the  perks  of  the  rich.  A  stack  ofhotel  writing  paper  gave  him  a  new  idea  for  teasing  Mag-  gie,  his  half  sister,  who  also  lived  in  [REDACTED]-near  the  Troca-  d\xc3\xa9ro,  about  eight  M\xc3\xa9tro  stops  away.  The  distance  be-  tween  Larry  and  Mag-  gie  was  greater  than  any  stretch  of  city  blocks.  He  saw  it  as  a  treeless  plain.  It  was  she  who  kept  the  ter-  rain  bare,  so  that  she  could  see  Larry  com-  ing.  He  had  to  sur-  mise,  because  it  would  be  senseless  to  do  any-  thing  else,  that  Mag-  gie  failed  to  trust  him.  He  wondered  why.  Total  strangers,  with  even  more  reason  to  feel  suspicious,  gave  him  the  keys  to  their  house,  When  he  looked  in  a  mirror,  he  felt  he  could  trust  himself.  A  French  law  obliges  children  to  support  indigent  parents  and,  in  one  or  two  rare  cases  Larry  had  heard  of,  siblings  -a  sister  or  brother.  Maggie  proba-  bly  lived  with  the  fear  of  seeing  Larry  shuffling  up  to  the  front  door,  palm  up.  Or  carrying  a  briefcase  stuffed  with  claims  and  final  warnings.  Or  ringing  the  bell,  in  a  tearing  hurry,  with  a  lawyer  waiting  in  a  taxi.  Or  that  she  would  be  called  to  his  bedside  at  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  Hospital  in  Neuilly,  with  an  itemized  statement  for  intensive  care  prepared  at  checkout.  She  might  even  be  afraid  she  would  have  to  bury  him,  in  the  unlikely  event  of  his  dying  first.  Maggie's  mother,  but  not  Larry's,  had  been  crowningly  rich.  Larry's  genera-  tion  would  have  said  that  he  and  Maggie  had  different  genes;  Maggie's  would  have  taken  it  for  granted  they  had  different  prospects.  Fiddling  around  with  the  hotel  sta-  tionery,  he  sent  Maggie  letters  from    Le  Palais  in  Biarritz,  the  Hotel  de  [REDACTED]  in  Monte  Carlo,  Le  Royal  at  Evian-les-Bains,  Le  Golf  at  Deau-  ville.  Some  carried  the  terrifying  [REDACTED]  See  you  soon!&quot;  From  the  [REDACTED]  Ritz  he  counselled  hernot  to  mind  the  number  of  bills  he  was  having  referred  to  her  from  Biarritz  and  those  other  places:  he  had  made  a  killing  in  Portu-  guese  oysters  and  would  settle  up  with  her  before  long.  He  wondered  if  the  tease  had  worked,  and  if  she  had  bothered  to  look  at  the  postmarks.  He  had  sent  all  the  letters  from  the  same  post  office,  on  Boulevard  Malesherbes.  The  post-  marks  should  have  shown  Maggie  that  it  was  just  a  prank,  not  an  operation.  But  then  she  probably  thought  him  too  old  for  practical  jokes  and  wholly  un-  suited  for  operations.  A  true  trickster  needed  to  have  the  elder  Pugh's  clear  conscience-his  perfect  innocence.  [REDACTED]  was  hushed,  eerie,  Larry's  fa-  ther  said.  That  was  what  he  noticed  after  so  many  years.  He'd  gone  back  to  [REDACTED]  long  before  the  war.  For  some  time  now  Maggie  had  been  paying  him  an  al-  lowance  to  keep  away.  She  lived  in  [REDACTED]  be-  cause  she  always  had;  it  did  not  mean  that  she  kept  open  house.  Larry  was  here  for  a  different  reason:  he  had  been  at  the  Beaux  Arts  for  as  long  as  he  could  stretch  the  [REDACTED]  Bill.  He  was  just  waver-  ing  at  present:  stay  or  go.  He  told  his  father  why  [REDACTED]  was  silent.  There  was  a  new  law  about  traffic  horns.  His  father  said  he  didn't  believe  it.  Here,  near  the  park,  in  midsummer,  there  was  no  traffic  to  speak  of.  In  the  still  of  the  afternoon  they  heard  the  braking  of  a  bus  across  the  empty  streets.  Shutters  were  bolted,  curtains  drawn  on  the  streets  with  art  names:  Murillo,  Rem-  brandt,  Van  Dyck.  Larry's  father  said,  &quot;I  suppose  you  found  out  there  wasn't  much  " b"to  art  in  the  long  run.&quot;  From  anyone  else  it  would  have  been  wounding.  His  father  meant  only  that  there  were  better  things  in  life,  not  that  anyone  had  failed  him.  Larry  took  the  dust  sheets  off  an  inlaid  table  and  two  pink  easy  chairs.  The  liquor  cabinet  was  easy  to  pry  open;  he  man-  aged  with  a  fork  and  spoon.  They  pushed  their  chairs  over  to  a  window.  It  was  curious,  his  father  remarked,  how  the  French  never  wanted  to  look  out.  Notice  the  way  salon  fur-  niture  is  placed-those  stiff  little  circles.  People  always  sat  as  if  they  weren't  sure  what  to  do  with  their  ankles  and  knees.  The  drawing  room  was  pale  in  color,  and  yet  it  soaked  up  the  light.  Larry  was  about  to  ask  if  his  father  had  ever  seen  a  total  eclipse,  when  the  old  man  said,  &quot;Who  lives  around  here?  It  was  a  good  address  before  the  war.&quot;  Before  the  other  war,  he  meant-before  1914.  He  was  fine-looking  -high-bridged  nose,  only  slightly  veined;  tough,  kindly  blue  eyes.  He  seemed  brain-  less  to  Larry,  like  Maggie,  but  a  stranger  might  not  have  noticed.  His  gaze  was  alert  as  a  wren's,  his  ex-  pression  one  of  narrow  sincerity.  If  there  were  such  a  thing  as  artistic  truth,  his  face  would  have  been  more  ingratiating;  about  half  his  plots  and  schemes  had  always  died  on  the  branch.  He  must  have  seen  the  other  half  as  enough.  Unlike  most  con  men,  Larry's  father  acted  on  sudden  incli-  nations.  It  was  a  wonder  anything  bloomed  at  all.  Larry  did  not  think  of  himself  as  brainless.  He  did  not  even  consider  himself  unlucky,  which  proved  he  was  smart.  He  was  not  sure  whether  his  face  said  anything  useful.  It  was  al-  most  too  late  to  decide.  He  had  stopped  being  young.  His  father  had  no  real  age;  certain-  ly  none  in  his  own  mind.  He  sat,  comfortable  and  alert,  drinking  Lar-  ry's  patron's  best  Scotch,  telling  Lar-  ry  about  a  wonderful  young  woman  who  was  dying  to  marry  him.  But,  he   said,  probably  having  quite  correct-  ly  guessed  that  Maggie  would  cut  his  funds  at  the  very  glimmer  of  a  new  wedding,  he  thought  he'd  keep  the  dew  on  the  rose;  stick  to  untrammelled  romance;  maintain  the  constant  de-  light  and  astonishment  reserved  for  unattached  lovers,  She  was  attractive,  warmhearted,  and  intelligent;  made  all  her  own  clothes.  Larry  refrained  from  asking  ques-  tions,  partly  out  of  loyalty  tohis  late,  put-upon  mother.  Dead  or  alive,  she  had  heard  enough.  &quot;Marriage  is  sex,&quot;  said  his  father.  &quot;But  money  is  not  necessarily  any-  thing  along  that  line.&quot;  In  spite  of  his  wish  not  to  be  drawn,  Larry  could  not  help  mulling  this  over.  His  father  was  always  at  his  most  dangerous,  morally  speaking,  when  he  made  no  sense.  &quot;The  richer  she  is,  the  lower  the  class  of  her  lovers.If  you  marry  a  rich  woman,  keep  an  eye  on  the  chauffeur.  Watch  out  for  unemployed  actors,  sailors,  tailors.  Customs  officers,&quot;  he  said,  as  though  suddenly  remembering.  He  may  have  been  recalling  Maggie's  mother.  He  sighed,  though  not  out  of  discontentor  sorrow,  and  lifted  his  firm  blue  gaze  to  an  oil  portrait  of  a  woman  wearing  pearls  Maggie's  mother  would  have  swum  the  Amazon  for.  &quot;I  was  never  really  excited  by  rich  women,&quot;  he  said  calmly,  &quot;Actually,  I  think  only  homosexuals  are.  Well,  itis  all  a  part  of  God's  good  plan,  laid  out  for  our  pleasure,  like  the  flower  beds  down  there  in  the  park.&quot;  Larry's  father  was  a  pagan  who  regularly  prayed  for  guidance.  He  thought  nothing  of  summoning  God  to  smile  on  Hisunenlightened  cre-  ations.  Maggie,  another  objectof  close  celestial  attention,  believed  something  should  be  done  about  the  nature  of  the  universe-some  tidying-up  job.  She  was  ready  to  take  it  on  and  was  only  waiting  to  be  asked.  Larry  lived  at  about  eye  level.  He  tried  the  Catholics,  who  said,  &quot;What  would  you  like?  Jam  for  breakfast?  Eternal  life?  They're  yours,  but  there's  a  catch.&quot;  The  Prot-  estants  greeted  his  return  with  &quot;Shut  up.,  Sit  down.  Think  it  over.&quot;  It  was  like  swimming  back  and  forth  between  two  crowded  rafts.  &quot;I  met  your  mother  just  before  I  lost  " b"most  of  my  money,&quot;  his  father  said,  which  was  a  whitewashed  way  of  ex-  plaining  he  had  been  involved  in  a  mining-stock  scandal  of  great  propor-  tions.  &quot;Never  make  the  mistake  of  im-  agining  a  dumb  woman  is  going  to  be  more  restful  than  a  smart  one.  Most  men  crack  up  on  that.  They  think  'dumb'  means  'silent.'  They  think  it's  going  to  be  like  the  baaing  of  a  lamb  and  the  cooing  of  adove,  and  they  won't  need  to  answer.  But  soon  it's  'Do  you  still  love  me?,'  and  that  can't  be  left  in  the  air.  Then  it  turns  into  'Did  you  love  me  when  we  got  mar-  ried?  Did  you  love  me  when  I  was  pregnant?  Did  you  love  me  last  week?  Do  you  love  me  now?&quot;&quot;  &quot;  Larry  said,  &quot;I  saw  Maggie  about  a  year  ago.  She  says  she's  leaving  every-  thing  to  an  arts  foundation.&quot;  &quot;She  can't,&quot;  said  his  father.  She  thinks  she  can,  and  she's  got  lawyers.  It's  her  way  of  wanting  to  be  remembered.  But  it's  the  wrong  way.  The  French  never  remember  anything  except  their  own  wars.  She  won't  even  have  her  name  on  a  birdbath.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Now,  that's  where  you're  wrong,&quot;  his  father  said.  &quot;There'll  be  a  memo-  rial  birdbath  and  Maggie's  name-  which,  incidentally  is  yours  and  mine;  I'm  leaving  you  both  a  good  name-  and  in  the  bowl  of  the  birdbath  there'll  be  the  Stars  and  Stripes  in  red-white-  and-blue  mosaic.  That  is  exactly  what  they'll  give  Maggie's  memory.  Where  they  will  choose  to  put  the  monument  I  can't  predict.  No  sane  man  wants  to  survive  his  own  children,  so  I  won't  say  I'd  like  to  see  the  inaugural  cere-  mony.  You'll  be  there,  though-well  dressed  and  smiling.  Life  has  been  good  to  me.  I  hope  it's  just  as  good  to  you.&quot;  It  was  true  that  life  had  treated  the  old  man  gently;  it  had  kept  him  out  of  jail  and  in  cheerful  company.  &quot;I  haven't  made  a  formal  will  [REDACTED];  he  said,  quite  as  though  he  had  any-  thing  to  leave.  &quot;But  there's  one  partic-  ular  thing  I  want  you  to  have.  It's  a  painting  of  me.  I  sat  for  it  here,  in  [REDACTED],  before  the  war.  Around  1912.  I  don't  remember  the  artist's  name,  but  he  was  big  in  those  days.  If  you  ever  have  a  son,  I  want  him  to  have  the  picture.  Promise  me  you'll  come  and  get  it  no  matter  where  you  happen  to  be  when  I  go.&quot;  He  helped  himself  to  a  drink  and,  as  though  no  answer  from  Larry  were  needed,  began  to  talk  about  something  else  he  owned-an  ancient  hookah,  a  museum  piece.  Maggie  would  appreci-  ate  having  it,  he  thought.  Larry  noticed  that  their  drinks  were  leaving  rings  on  the  inlaid  table.  He  rubbed  them  with  a  corner  of  a  dust  sheet,  but  it  was  too  late.  THE  next  day,  while  he  was  try-  ing  to  sandpaper  the  stains,  Larry  remembered  the  portrait.  It  showed  his  father  wearing  ahat  at  a  jaunty  angle,  his  hands  clasped  on  a  walking  stick.  He  appeared  to  be  ele-  gant  and  reliable,  the  way  things  and  people  are  always  said  to  have  been  when  one  looks  back  at  them  across  a  war.  When  Larry's  father  left  Larry  and  his  mother,  he  took  the  portrait  with  him.  It  must  have  been  hanging  in  a  dining  room,  because  Larry  saw  him  taking  it  down,  and  then  tossing  a  bundle  of  money,  cash,  on  a  polished  table.  His  mother  sat  in  profile,  turned  away,  arms  folded.  She  looked  toward,  butnot  at,  the  little  glass  shelves  at  the  window,  where  she  kept  her  collection  of  miniature  cacti  in  pottery  dishes.  She  wore  the  look  of  dark  grieving  no  child  can  enter.  When  he  saw  that  she  was  not  going  to  turn  back  his  way  or  say  something  to  him,  Larry's  father  secured  the  portrait  under  his  arm  and  walked  out.  There  was  a  blank  place  on  the  wall,  and  on  the  table,  deeply  reflected,  apacket  of  bills  that  seemed  a  lot  but  that  never  was  or  could  be  enough.  Over  the  next  few  days  and  until  the  end  of  August,  when  it  was  time  for  Larry  to  move  on,  he  continued  to  work  on  the  inlaid  table,  repeating  the  operation  of  sandpaper  and  wax  until  the  rings  showed  but  palely,  and  only  under  direct,  strong  light.  Except  for  those  faint  circles,  and  a  few  sheets  of  hotel  stationery  and  a  few  ounces  of  whiskey  gone,  he  left  no  other  trace  behind  him  of  loss  or  mischief. "