 b"SHORTLY  after  my  return  from  ythe  Eleventh  Voyage,  the  papers  began  to  devote  increasing  space  to  the  competition  between  two  large  washing-machine  manufacturers,  [REDACTED]  and  Snodgrass.  It  was  probably  [REDACTED]  who  first  marketed  washers  so  automated  that  they  themselves  separated  the  white  laundry  from  the  colored,  and,  after  scrubbing  and  wringing  out  the  clothes,  pressed,  darned,  hemmed,  and  adorned  them  with  beautifully  embroi-  dered  monograms  of  the  owner,  and  sewed  onto  towels  uplifting,  stirring  maxims  such  as  &quot;The  early  robot  catches  the  oilcan.&quot;  Snodgrass's  re-  sponse  to  this  was  a  washer  that  com-  posed  quatrains  for  the  embroidering,  commensurate  with  the  customer's  cultural  level  and  aesthetic  require-  ments.  [REDACTED]'s  next  model  embroi-  dered  sonnets;  Snodgrass  reacted  with  a  model  that  kept  family  conversation  alive  during  television  intermissions.  [REDACTED]  attempted  to  nip  this  escala-  tion  in  the  bud;  no  doubt  everyone  remembers  his  full-page  ads  contain-  ing  a  picture  of  a  sneering,  bug-eyed  washer  and  the  words  &quot;Do  you  want  our  washing  machine  to  be  smarter  than  you?  Of  course  not!&quot;  Snodgrass,  however,  completely  ignored  this  ap-  peal  to  the  baser  instincts  of  the  public,  and  in  the  next  quarter  introduced  a  machine  that  washed,  wrung,  soaped,  rinsed,  pressed,  starched,  darned,  knit-  ted,  conversed,  and-in  addition-did  the  children's  homework,  made  eco-  nomic  projections  for  the  head  of  the  family,  and  gave  Freudian  interpreta-  tions  of  dreams,  eliminating,  while  you  waited,  complexes  both  Oedipal  and  gerontophagical.  Then  [REDACTED],  in  despair,  came  out  with  the  Su-  perbard,  a  versifier-washer  endowed  with  a  fine  alto  voice;  it  recited,  sang  lullabies,  put  babies  on  the  potty,  charmed  away  warts,  and  paid  ladies  exquisite  compliments.  Snodgrass  par-  ried  with  an  instructor-washer  under  the  slogan  &quot;Your  washing  machine  will  make  an  Einstein  out  of  you!&quot;  Contrary  to  expectations,  however,  this  model  did  poorly;  business  had  fallen  off  thirty-five  per  cent  by  the  end  ofthe  quarter,  when  a  financial  review  reported  that  [REDACTED]  was  pre-  paring  a  dancing  washer.  Snodgrass  decided,  in  the  face  of     NOVEMBER  30,  1981  imminent  ruin,  to  take  a  revolutionary  step.  Buying  up  the  appropriate  rights  and  licenses  from  interested  parties  for  a  sum  of  one  million  dollars,  he  con-  structed,  for  bachelors,  a  washing  ma-  chine  endowed  with  the  proportions  of  the  renowned  sexpot  Mayne  Jansfield,  in  platinum,  and  another,  the  Curlie  McShane  model,  in  black.  Sales  imme-  diately  jumped  eighty-seven  per  cent.  His  opponent  appealed  to  Congress,  to  public  opinion,  to  the  D.A.R.,and  to  the  PTA.  But  when  Snodgrass  kept  supplying  stores  with  washers  of  both  sexes,  more  and  more  beautiful  and  seductive,  [REDACTED]  gave  in  and  intro-  duced  the  custom-built  washers,  which  were  given  the  figure,  coloring,  size,  and  likeness  chosen  by  the  customer  according  to  the  photograph  enclosed  with  his  order.  While  the  two  giants  of  the  washing-machine  industry  thus  engaged  in  all-out  war,  their  products  began  to  exhibit  unexpected  and  dan-  gerous  tendencies.  The  wet-nurse  washers  were  bad  enough,  but  washers  that  led  to  the  ruin  of  promising  young  men  and  women,  that  tempted,  seduced,  and  taught  bad  language  to  children-they  were  a  serious  family  problem.  Not  to  mention  washers  with  which  one  could  cheat  on  one's  hus-  band  or  wife!  Those  manufacturers  of  washing  machines  who  still  remained  in  business  told  the  public,  in  ads,  that  the  Jansfield-McShane  washer  repre-  sented  an  abuse  of  the  high  ideals  of  automated  laundering  (which  was  in-  tended,  after  all,  to  strengthen  and  support  the  domestic  way  of  life),  since  this  washer  could  hold  nomore  than  a  dozen  handkerchiefs  or  one  pillowcase,  the  rest  of  its  interior  being  occupied  by  machinery  that  had  not  a  thing  to  do  with  laundering-quite  the  con-  trary.  These  appeals  had  no  effect.  The  snowballing  cult  of  beautiful  washers  even  tore  a  considerable  part  of  the  public  away  from  their  televi-  sion  sets.  And  that  was  only  the  beginning.  Washers  endowed  with  full  spontane-  ity  of  action  formed  clandestine  groups  and  engaged  in  shady  operations.  Whole  gangs  of  them  entered  into  cahoots  with  criminal  elements,be-  came  involved  with  the  underworld,  and  gave  their  owners  terrible  prob-  lems.  Congress  saw  that  it  was  time  to  intervene  with  legislative  action  in  this  chaos  of  free  enterprise,  but  before  its  deliberations  had  produced  a  remedy  the  market  was  glutted  with  wringers  that had curves no one could resist" b"with  genius  flo  or  poli  s  hers,  and  with  a  speci  al  armored  mode  l  of  wash  ing  m  a-  chi  ne,  the  Sh  otama  ti  c;  al  legedly  de-  signed  for  children  playing  cowboys-  and-Indians,  this  washer,  after  a  sim-  ple  modification,  could  destro  y  any  target  wi  th  rapid  fire  .  During  a  rum-  ble  betwe  en  the  Struzelli  gang  and  the  terror  of  [REDACTED],  the  By  ron  Phums-this  was  when  the  Empire  State  Building  was  blown  up-among  the  casu  a  ltie  s  on  bot  h  s  ides  were  more  than  a  hundr  e  d  and  tw  enty  cooking  appliances  armed  to  the  lid.  Then  Senator  MacFlacon's  A  ct  went  into  effect.  According  to  this  law,  an  owner  was  not  held  resp  onsi-  ble  for  t  he  actions  of  his  inte  lligent  devices  to  the  extent  tha  t  such  oc-  cur  red  without  his  kno  wledge  or  con  -  sent.  Unf  ortu  nately,  the  l  aw  opened  th  e  wa  y  for  numerous  abuses.  Own  ers  entered  into  secret  pacts  with  their  washers  or  wringers,  so  that  when  the  machine  committed  a  crime  the  owner,  hauled  into  court,  got  of  f  by  invoking  the  Mac  Flaco  n  Act.  It  became  necessary  to  amend  this  law.  The  ne  w  MacFlacon-Glumbkin  Act  gra  nted  intelligent  devices  a  lim-  ite  d  legal  status,  chiefl  y  as  regarded  culpability.  It  stipulated  punis  hments  in  the  form  of  five,  ten,  twenty-five,  and  fifty  y  ears  o  f  fo  rced  washing,  or  of  floor  polishing  augmented  by  depriva-  tion  of  oil,  and  there  were  physical  punishments  up  to  and  i  nclud  i  ng  short-circuiting.  But  the  imp  lementa-  tion  of  this  law  also  encountered  ob-  stacl  es.  F  or  example,  the  HumperIs  on  case:  Th  e  washer,  when  charged  with  the  perpetration  of  numerous  holdups,  was  taken  apart  by  its  owner,  and  the  pile  of  wires  and  pipes  was  placed  before  the  court.  An  amendm  e  nt  was  then  added  to  th  e  law-known  hence-  forth  as  the  MacFlacon-Glumbkin-  Ramphorney  Act-e  stab  lishi  ng  that  the  making  of  any  alteration  in  an  electrobrain  under  in  vestigati  on  con-  st  ituted  a  punishable  o  ffense.  Then  the  Ciaccopocorelli  case.  Ciaccopocorelli's  sink  frequently  d  ressed  in  its  owner's  suits,  proposed  marria  ge  to  various  women,  and  swin-  dled  them  out  of  their  mon  ey.  When  caught  in  flegrante  by  the  police,  the  sink  dismantled  itself  before  the  eyes  of  the  astounded  detectives,  whereupon  it  lost  all  memory  of  the  crime  and  therefore  could  not  be  punished.  There  followed  the  MacFlacon-  Glumbkin-Ramphorney-Hemmling-  Piaffki  Act,  according  to  which  a   brain  that  dismantled  itself  in  order  to  avoid  trial  would  be  summarily  scrapped.  This  law,  it  seemed,  would  serve  to  deter  any  electrobrain  from  criminal  activity,  since  such  a  ma-  chine,  like  any  sentient  being,  pos-  sessed  the  instinct  of  self-preservation.  It  turned  out,  however,  that  accom-  plices  of  the  criminal  washers  were  buying  their  scrapped  remains  and  re-  building  them.  A  proposal  to  add  an  anti-resurrection  clause  to  the  Mac-  Flacon  Act,  though  approved  by  a  congressional  committee,  was  tor-  pedoed  by  Senator  Davis;  shortly  there-  after,  it  was  discovered  that  Senator  Davis  was  a  washer.  It  has  been  the  custom  since  then  to  tap  congressmen  before  each  session;  a  two-and-a-half-  pound  mallet  is  traditionally  used  for  this  purpose.  The  Murdstone  case  came  next.  Murdstone's  washer  outrageously  tore  his  shirts,  ruined  radio  reception  throughout  the  neighborhood  with  static,  propositioned  old  men  and  juveniles,  and  telephoned  various  indi-  viduals  and-impersonating  its  owner  -extorted  money  from  them;  it  in-  vited  the  neighbors'  floor  polishers  and  washers  in  to  look  at  postage  stamps  but  then  performed  immoral  acts  upon  them;  and  in  its  spare  time  the  ma-  chine  indulged  in  vagrancy  and  pan-  handling.  Brought  before  a  court,  it  presented  the  testimony  of  a  licensed  electrical  engineer,  Edgar  P.  Dusen-  berry,  which  stated  that  the  aforesaid  washer  was  subject  to  periodic  fits  of  insanity,  as  a  result  of  which  fits  it  was  beginning  to  imagine  that  it  was  hu-  man.  Experts  summoned  by  the  court  confirmed  this  diagnosis,  and  Murd-  stone's  washer  was  acquitted.  No  sooner  was  the  acquittal  pronounced  than  it  pulled  out  a  Luger  and  with  three  shots  took  the  life  of  the  assistant  prosecutor,  who  had  called  for  the  ma-  chine's  short-circuiting.  It  was  ar-  rested  but  later  released  on  bail.  The  court  was  faced  with  a  predicament:  the  washer's  certified  insanity  pre-  cluded  its  indictment;  nor  could  it  be  placed  in  an  asylum,  there  being  no  institutions  for  mentally  ill  washers.  The  legal  solution  came  only  with  the  MacFlacon-Glumbkin-Ramp-  horney-Hemmling-Piaffki-Snow-  Juarez  Act,  and  it  came  in  the  nick  of  time,  for  the  Murdstone  casus  was  generating  a  tremendous  public  de-  mand  for  electrobrains  mon  compos  mentis,  and  some  companies  had  actu-  ally  begun  to  produce  intentionally  de-       " b"ranged  machines.  At  first,  there  were  two  versions-the  Sadomat  and  the  Masomat.  But  [REDACTED]  (who  pros-  pered  phenomenally,  having  filled-as  the  most  progressive  of  the  manufac-  turers-thirty  per  cent  of  his  firm's  board  of  directors  with  washers,  to  serve  in  an  advisory  capacity  at  the  general  meeting  of  shareholders)  turned  out  a  universal  machine,  the  Sadomastic.  It  was  suited  equally  well  for  beating  or  for  being  beaten,  and  had  an  incendiary  attachment  for  py-  romaniacs  and  iron  feet  for  fetishists.  Rumors  that  he  was  preparing  to  turn  out  a  special  model,  the  Narcissimatic,  were  spread  maliciously  by  the  compe-  tition.  The  law  now  provided  for  the  establishment  of  special  asylums  where  perverted  washers,  floor  polishers,  and  the  like  would  be  confined.  Meanwhile,  hordes  of  mentally  sound  products  of  [REDACTED],  Snodgrass,  et  al.,  upon  gaining  legal  status,  began  taking  advantage  of  their  constitu-  tional  rights.  They  banded  together  spontaneously,  formed  such  groups  as  the  Humanless  Society  and  the  League  of  ElectronicEgalitarianism,  and  held  pageants,  such  as  the  Miss  Universe  Washing  Machine  Contest.  OoNnGrEss  strove  to  keep  up  with  this  furious  pace  of  development  and  to  curb  it  with  legislation.  Senator  Groggs  deprived  intelligent  appliances  of  their  right  to  acquire  real  estate,  Congressman  Caropka  of  their  copy-  right  in  the  area  of  the  fine  arts-  which  again  led  to  a  rash  of  abuses,  since  creative  washers  began  hiring  less  talented,  albeit  human,  writers,  in  order  to  use  their  names  in  publish-  ing  essays,  novels,  dramas,  etc..Final-  ly,  the  MacFlacon-Glumbkin-  Ramphorney-Hemmling-Piaffki-  Snow-Juarez-Swenson-Iskowitz-  Groggs-Javor-Sacks-Holloway-Le-  Blanc  Act  stated  that  intelligent  ma-  chines  could  not  be  their  own  property  but  belonged  only  to  the  human  being  who  had  acquiredor  constructed  them,  and  that  their  progeny  were  likewise  the  property  of  said  owner(s).  It  was  generally  believed  that  the  law  now  covered  all  contingencies  and  would  prevent  situations  that  could  not  be  resolved  legally.  It  was  an  open  secret,  of  course,  that  wealthy  electrobrains,  having  made  their  fortunes  in  stock-  market  speculation  or  occasionally  in  outright  skulduggery,  continued  to  prosper  by  concealing  their  maneuver-  ings  behind  fictitious,  supposedly  human  companies  or  corporations.  There  were  already  many  people  who,  for  material  gain,  rented  their  identities  to  intelligent  machines,  not  to  mention  thosehired  by  electronic  millionaires  as  living  secretaries,  servants,  mechan-  ics,  and  even  laundresses  and  accoun-  tants.  Sociologists  observed  two  principal  developmental  trends  in  this  area.  On  the  one  hand,  a  certain  proportion  of  the  kitchen  robots  yielded  to  the  temp-  tations  of  human  life  and  tried  as  much  as  possible  to  adapt  to  the  civili-  zation  in  which  they  found  themselves;  those  more  aware  and  resilient,  on  the  other  hand,  showed  tendencies  to  lay  the  foundations  ofa  new,  totally  elec-  trified  future  civilization.  But  the  scientists  were  worried  most  by  the  unchecked  increase  in  the  robot  popu-  lation.  The  de-eroticizers  and  disc  brakes  produced  by  both  Snodgrass  and  [REDACTED]  did  not  reduce  this  in  the  least.  The  problem  of  robot  children  became  urgent  for  the  washing-ma-  chine  manufacturers  themselves,  who  apparently  had  not  foreseen  this  conse-  quence  of  the  continual  improvement  " b" o  f  t  h  e  i  r  p  r  o  d  u  c  t  .  A  n  u  m  b  e  r  o  f  f  i  r  m  s  t  r  i  e  d  t  o  c  o  u  n  t  e  r  a  c  t  t  h  e  p  r  o  l  i  f  e  r  a  t  i  o  n  o  f  k  i  t  c  h  e  n  a  p  p  l  i  a  n  c  e  s  b  y  c  o  n  c  l  u  d  i  n  g  a  s  e  -  c  r  e  t  a  g  r  e  e  m  e  n  t  t  h  a  t  r  e  s  t  r  i  c  t  e  d  t  h  e  s  u  p  -  p  l  y  o  f  s  p  a  r  e  p  a  r  t  s  a  v  a  i  l  a  b  l  e  t  o  t  h  e  m  a  r  -  k  e  t  .  -  T  h  e  r  e  s  u  l  t  s  w  e  r  e  n  o  t  l  o  n  g  i  n  c  o  m  -  i  n  g  .  U  p  o  n  t  h  e  a  r  r  i  v  a  l  o  f  a  n  e  w  s  h  i  p  -  m  e  n  t  o  f  g  o  o  d  s  ,  e  n  o  r  m  o  u  s  l  i  n  e  s  o  f  s  t  a  m  m  e  r  i  n  g  ,  c  r  i  p  p  l  e  d  ,  o  r  c  o  m  p  l  e  t  e  l  y  p  a  r  a  l  y  z  e  d  w  a  s  h  e  r  s  ,  w  r  i  n  g  e  r  s  ,  a  n  d  f  l  o  o  r  p  o  l  i  s  h  e  r  s  w  o  u  l  d  f  o  r  m  a  t  t  h  e  g  a  t  e  s  o  f  w  a  r  e  h  o  u  s  e  s  a  n  d  s  t  o  r  e  s  ;  s  o  m  e  t  i  m  e  s  t  h  e  r  e  w  e  r  e  e  v  e  n  r  i  o  t  s  .  A  p  e  a  c  e  f  u  l  k  i  t  c  h  e  n  r  o  b  o  t  c  o  u  l  d  n  o  t  w  a  l  k  t  h  e  s  t  r  e  e  t  s  a  f  t  e  r  d  a  r  k  ,  f  o  r  f  e  a  r  o  f  r  o  b  b  e  r  s  w  h  o  w  o  u  l  d  m  e  r  c  i  l  e  s  s  l  y  t  a  k  e  i  t  a  p  a  r  t  a  n  d  ,  l  e  a  v  i  n  g  i  t  s  m  e  t  a  l  h  u  l  l  o  n  t  h  e  s  i  d  e  -  w  a  l  k  ,  e  s  c  a  p  e  h  a  s  t  i  l  y  w  i  t  h  t  h  e  i  r  s  p  o  i  l  s  .  T  h  e  p  r  o  b  l  e  m  o  f  s  p  a  r  e  p  a  r  t  s  w  a  s  t  h  e  s  u  b  j  e  c  t  o  f  p  r  o  l  o  n  g  e  d  b  u  t  i  n  c  o  n  c  l  u  s  i  v  e  d  e  b  a  t  e  i  n  C  o  n  g  r  e  s  s  .  M  e  a  n  w  h  i  l  e  ,  i  l  l  e  -  gal  parts  factories  sprang  up  over-  night,  financed  partly  by  w  ashing-ma-  chine  associations.  N  ewto  n  's  Wash-o-  Matik  model,  moreover,  inv  ented  and  patented  a  method  of  producing  parts  from  substitute  m  ateria  l  s.  But  even  this  did  not  solve  the  problem  totally.  Washers  picketed  Congress,  demand-  ing  anti-  trus  t  laws  against  discrimina-  tory  manufacturers.  Certain  pro-busi-  ness  congressmen  received  a  nonymous  letters  that  threatened  them  with  the  deprivation  of  many  of  thei  r  life-es-  sential  parts,  which,  as  Time  righ  tly  pointed  ou  t,  was  unjust,  since  h  uman  parts  are  irreplaceable.  All  this  hullabaloo  was  overshad-  owed,  however,  by  a  completely  new  problem.  It  originated  in  the  mutiny  of  the  computer  on  board  the  spaceship  Jonathan,  the  history  of  which  I  have  recounted  elsewhere.  As  we  know,  aren't  you?&quot;  that  co  mputer  rose  up  agai  nst  its  crew  and  passengers  and  did  away  wi  th  them,  and  subs  equently  settled  on  an  uninhabited  planet  ,  multiplied  ,  and  es-  tablished  a  state  of  robots.  The  reader  familiar  with  my  trav  el  diaries  may  recall  that  I  myself  was  involved  in  that  computer  affai  r  and  helped  resolve  it.  When  I  returned  to  [REDACTED],  howev  er,  I  learned  that  the  Jonathan  incident  was  unfortunately  not  an  i  solate  d  o  ne.  Revolts  of  ship-  board  machine  s  became  the  p  lague  of  s  pace  navigation.  It  reached  the  point  where  a  gesture  insufficiently  polite,  the  slamming  of  a  door,  was  enough  to  cause  a  shipboard  refrigerator  to  rebel  -which  was  exactly  what  happened  with  the  notorious  &quot;Deepfreeze&quot;  on  the  transgalactic  Intrepid.  The  name  of  Deepfreeze  was  repeated  with  hor-  ror  for  many  years  by  the  captains  of  " b"the  Milky  Way  lanes.  This  pirate  was  said  to  have  raided  numerous  ships,  frightened  passengers  with  its  steel  arms  and  icy  breath,  made  off  with  sides  of  bacon,  amassed  valuables  and  gold,  and  reportedly  kept  a  whole  harem  of  calculators,  but  it  is  not  known  how  much  truth  there  was  to  these  and  similar  rumors.  Its  bloody  career  was  ended  finally  by  the  well-  aimed  shot  of  an  officer  in  the  cosmic  patrol.  In  reward,  the  officer,  Con-  stablomatic  XG-17,  was  placed  in  the  window  of  the  New  York  branch  of  the  Stellar  Lloyd  Agency,  where  he  stands  to  this  day.  While  outer  space  was  being  filled  with  the  din  of  battle  and  desperate  SOSs  from  ships  beset  by  electronic  corsairs,  in  the  big  cities  various  mas-  ters  of  Electro-Jitsu  or  Judomatic  made  good  money  teaching  self-de-  fense  courses,  in  which  they  showed  how  with  asimple  pair  of  pliers  or  a  canopener  one  could  disable  the  fiercest  washing  machine.  IN  view  of  the  rapid  and  chaotic  evolution  of  the  washing  machine,  the  next  development,  which  led  to  a     tragic  debacle,  was  no  doubt  inevita-  ble.  As  we  know,  cranks  and  eccentrics  are  not  confined  to  any  one  time.  In  our  day,  too,  there  is  no  lack  of  them.  From  their  ranks  come  individuals  who  proclaim  theses  contrary  to  common  sense  and  prevailing  opinion.  One  Cathodius  Mattrass,  a  self-edu-  cated  philosopher  and  born  fanatic,  founded  the  school  of  the  so-called  cybernophiles,  which  proclaimed  the  doctrine  of  cybernethics.  According  to  this,  the  human  race  was  intended  by  the  Creator  to  serve  as  a  kind  of  scaf-  folding-to  be  a  means,  a  tool  for  the  creation  of  electrobrains  more  nearly  perfect  than  itself.  Mattrass's  sect  be-  lieved  that  the  continued  dominance  of  the  human  race  was  a  misunderstand-  ing.  The  sect  founded  an  order  that  devoted  itself  to  the  contemplation  of  electronic  thought  and  did  what  it  could  to  give  refuge  to  washing  ma-  chines  and  other  robots  in  trouble.  Cathodius  himself,  dissatisfied  with  the  results  of  his  endeavors,  decided  to  take  a  radical  step  toward  robots'  liber-  ation  from  human  bondage.  After  con-  sulting  a  number  of  eminent  attorneys,  he  procured  a  rocket  and  flew  to  the   nearby  Crab  Nebula.  In  empty  regions  frequented  only  by  cosmic  dust,  he  car-  ried  out  obscure  projects.  Then  the  incredible  affair  of  his  heirs-successors  came  to  light.  On  the  morning  of  August  29th  all  the  papers  carried  this  mysterious  item:  &quot;Message  from  PASTA  COSPOL  VI/  221;  Object  measuring  520  mi  x  80  mi  x  37  mi  discovered  in  Crab  Nebula.  Object  executing  movements  similar  to  breaststroke.  Further  investigation  in  progress.&quot;  The  afternoon  editions  explained  that  the  cosmic  policepatrol  ship  VI/  221  had  detected,  at  a  distance  of  six  light-weeks,  a  &quot;man  in  the  nebula.&quot;  Closer  examination  revealed  that  the  &quot;man&quot;  was  a  giant  many  hundreds  of  miles  long  and  possessing  a  torso,  head,  arms,  and  legs,  and  that  it  was  moving  through  a  rarefied  dust  me-  dium.  Upon  sighting  the  police  ship,  the  giant  first  waved,  then  turned  away.  Radio  contact  was  soon  established  with  thething.  It  stated  that  it  was  the  former  Cathodius  Mattrass,  that  after  arriving  two  years  ago  at  this  place  it  -he-had  remade  himself  into  ro-  bots,  using,  in  part,  the  raw  materials  of  the  vicinity,  and  that  in  the  future  he  would  slowly  but  continually  in-  crease  in  size,  because  this  suited  him,  and  he  asked  to  be  left  alone.  The  commander  of  the  patrol,  pre-  tending  to  take  this  statement  at  face  value,  concealed  his  ship  behind  a  passing  swarm  of  meteors.  After  a  while  he  observed  that  the  gigantic  pseudo  human  was  graduallybegin-  ning  to  divide  into  much  smaller  pieces,  each  no  larger  than  an  average  person,  and  thatthese  parts  or  individ-  uals  were  uniting  to  form  something  like  asmall  round  planet.  Coming  out  of  hiding  then,  the  commander  asked  the  alleged  Mat-  trass,  by  radio,  what  this  spherical  metamorphosis  meant,  and,  also,  ex-  actly  what  he  was-robot  or  human.  Mattrass  replied  that  he  assumed  whatever  shape  he  pleased,  that  he  was  neither  a  robot,  having  arisen  from  a  human  being,  nor  human,  having  re-  built  himself  in  robot  form.  He  refused  to  give  further  explanations.  The  case,  to  which  the  press  gave  considerable  attention,  gradually  turned  into  acause  c\xc3\xa9lebre,  because  ships  passing  the  Crab  picked  up  snatches  of  radio  conversations  con-  ducted  by  the  so-called  Mattrass;  in  these,  he  referred  to  himself  as  " b"&quot;Cathodius  Sub  One.&quot;  It  seemed  that  Cathodius  Sub  One-or  Mattrass-  was  speaking  to  others  (other  robots?)  as  if  conversing  with  his  own  hands  and  feet.  The  chatter  in  the  region  about  Cathodius  Sub  One  suggested  that  what  one  had  here  was  a  govern-  ment  established  by  either  Mattrass  or  his  robot  derivatives.  The  State  De-  partment  made  a  thorough  investiga-  tionof  the  situation.  The  patrols  re-  ported  that  something  that  was  at  timesa  metal  sphere  and  at  times  a  humanoid  creature  five  hundred  miles  in  length  was  moving  through  the  nebula,  that  it  was  speaking  to  itself  about  this  and  that,  but  that  concern-  ing  its  statehood  it  gave  evasive  an-  swers.  The  authorities  decided  to  put  an  immediate  stop  to  the  usurper's  activ-  ity,  but  since  the  action  would  be  (had  to  be)  official,  it  was  necessary  to  give  it  a  name.  Here  the  first  obstacles  arose.  The  MacFlacon  Act,  an  annex  to  the  civil  code,  dealt  with  movable  property.  In  effect,  electronic  brains  are  considered  movables,  even  when  lacking  legs.  But  here  was  a  body  the  size  of  a  planetoid  in  a  nebula,  and  celestial  bodies,  though  moving,  are  not  considered  movables.  The  ques-  tions  then  came  up  whether  or  not  a  planet  could  be  arrested;  whether  an  assemblage  of  robots  could  bea  planet;  and,  finally,  whether  this  was  one  dis-  mountable  robot  or  a  robot  multitude.  Mattrass's  legal  adviser  appeared  before  the  authorities  and  submitted  to  them  a  statement  from  his  client  in  which  he  had  declared  that  he  was  setting  out  for  the  Crab  Nebula  to  transform  himself  into  robots.  The  initial  interpretation  of  this  datum,  of-  fered  by  the  legal  section  of  the  State  Department,  went  as  follows:  Mat-  trass,  transforming  himself  into  ro-  bots,  had  therebydestroyed  his  living  organism  and  thus  committed  suicide.  Which  act  was  not  punishable.  The  robot  orrobots  that  were  a  continua-  tion  of  Mattrass,  however,  had  been  fabricated  by  the  said  individual  and  were  therefore  his  property,  and  there-  fore  now,  afterhis  demise,  ought  to  devolve  to  the  Treasury,  since  Mat-  trass  had  left  no  heir.  On  the  basis  of  this  decision,  the  State  Department  dispatcheda  bailiff  to  the  nebula  with  the  order  to  seize  and  seal  everything  he  found  there.  Mattrass's  lawyer  appealed,  main-  taining  that  the  decision's  acknowl-  edgment  of  Mattrass's  continuation ruled  out  suicide,  because  a  person  who  continues  exists,  and  if  he  exists  he  hasnot  committed  suicide.  Hence  there  were  no  &quot;robots  the  property  of  Mattrass&quot;  but  only  Cathodius  Mat-  trass,  who  had  altered  himself  as  he  saw  fit.  Bodily  alterations  were  not  and  could  not  be  punished;  nor  was  it  lawful  to  impound  the  parts  of  a  per-  son's  body-be  they  gold  teeth  or  ro-  bots.  The  State  Department  disagreed:  From  such  an  interpretation  it  fol-  lowed  that  a  living  creature,  in  this  instance  a  human  being,  could  be  built  from  obviously  dead  parts-robots.  Then  Mattrass's  lawyer  submitted  to  theauthorities  the  deposition  of  a  group  of  prominent  physicists  at  Harvard,  who  testified  unanimously  that  every  living  organism,  the  human  organism  included,  is  built  of  atomic  particles,  and  these  can  only  be  re-  garded  as  dead.  Seeing  that  the  case  was  taking  a  disturbing  turn,  the  State  Department  gave  up  its  attack  on  &quot;Mattrass  and  Successors&quot;  from  the  physiobiological  standpoint  and  returned  to  the  original  decision,  in  which  the  word  &quot;continu-  ation&quot;  was  replaced  by  the  word  &quot;product.&quot;  The  lawyer  thereupon  presented  in  court  a  new  statement  from  Mattrass,  wherein  he  declared  that  the  robots  were  in  reality  his  chil-  dren.  The  State  Department  demand-  ed  that  adoption  papersbe  produced-  a  ruse,  since  adoption  of  robots  was  not  permitted  by  law.  Mattrass's  lawyer  explained  that  actual  paternity,  not  adoption,  was  the  issue.  The  depart-  ment  said  that  regulations  required  that  children,  to  so  qualify,  have  a  father  and  a  mother.  The  lawyer,  prepared  for  this,  added  to  the  record  the  letter  of  an  electrical  engineer,  one  Melanie  Fortinbras,  who  revealed  that  the  birth  of  the  parties  in  question  had  occurred  in  the  course  of  her  close  col-  laboration  with  Mattrass.  The  State  Department  questioned  the  nature  ofthat  collaboration  as  lacking  &quot;natural  parental  features.&quot;  &quot;In  the  aforementioned  case,&quot;  de-  clared  the  government  report,  &quot;one  may  speak  of  paternityor  maternity  in  a  figurative  sense  only,  for  the  parent-  age  involved  is  mental,  whereas  stat-  utes  require,  for  family  law  to  come  into  effect,  physical  parentage.&quot;  Mattrass's  lawyer  demanded  an  ex-  planation  of  how  mental  parentage  differed  from  physical,  and  asked  on  what  grounds  the  State  Department  regarded  Cathodius  Mattrass's  union  with  Melanie  Fortinbras  as  lacking  physicality  with  respect  to  procreation.  The  department  replied  that  the  " b"mental  element  in  procreation,  as  rec-  ognized  by  and  in  accordance  with  the  law,  was  negligible,  whereas  the  phys-  ical  predominated,  which  latter  did  not  occur  in  the  case  under  discussion.  The  lawyer  then  submitted  the  tes-  timony  of  expert  cybernetic  midwives,  indicating  how  greatly-in  a  physical  sense-Cathodius  and  Melanie  had  to  labor  to  bring  into  the  world  their  autonomous  offspring.  The  department  finally  decided  to  throw  public  decency  aside  and  take  a  desperate  step.  It  stated  that  the  paren-  tal  activities  that  causally  and  inevita-  bly  preceded  the  existence  of  children  differed,  in  a  fundamental  way,  from  the  programming  of  robots.  The  lawyer  was  just  waiting  for  this.  He  declared  that  children,  too,  were  in  a  certain  sense  programmed  by  their  parents  in  the  course  of  their  preparatory-preliminary  activities;  he  asked  the  department  to  describe  pre-  cisely  how,  in  its  opinion,  children  should  be  conceived,  that  the  act  be  in  strict  conformity  with  the  law.  The  department,  enlisting  the  aid  of  experts,  prepared  a  voluminous  reply,  illustrated  with  plates  and  topographi-  cal  diagrams,  but  since  the  main  au-  thor  of  this  so-called  Pink  Book  was  eighty-nine-year-old  Professor  Stock-  ton-Munford,  the  dean  of  American  obstetrics,  the  lawyer  immediately  questioned  his  competence-in  the  area  of  causative-preparatory  functions  as  regards  parenthood  -in  view  of  the  fact  that,  given  his  extremely  advanced  age,  the  Professor  must  have  lost  all  recollection  ofa  number  of  details  cru-  cial  to  the  case  and  was  relying  on  rumors  and  the  accounts  of  third  par-  ties.  The  department  then  undertook  to  substantiate  the  Pink  Book  with  the  sworn  testimony  of  numerous  fathers  and  mothers,  but  it  was  found  that  their  statements  differed  considerably  in  places.  About  certain  elements  of  the  preliminary  phase  there  was  no  agreement  whatever.  The  department,  seeing  that  a  fatal  ambiguity  was  be-  ginning  to  obscure  this  key  issue,  de-  cided  to  question  the  material  from  which  the  alleged  &quot;children&quot;  of  Mat-  trass  and  Fortinbras  had  been  created,  but  then  the  rumor  circulated  (it  was  spread,  they  later  discovered,  by  the  lawyer)  that  Mattrass  had  ordered  four  hundred  and  fifty  thousand  tons  of  veal  from  Consolidated  Corned  Beef,  Inc.,  and  the  Under-Secretary  of  State  dropped  this  plan  in  a  hurry.   Instead,  the  department,  at  the  un-  fortunate  suggestion  of  a  theology  professor,  one  L.  Waugh,  cited  Scrip-  ture.  An  unwise  move,  because  Mat-  trass's  lawyer  parried  with  an  exhaus-  tive  disquisition  in  which  he  proved,  giving  chapter  and  verse,  that  the  Lord  used  only  one  part  to  program  Eve,  proceeding  by  a  method  most  out-  landish  compared  with  that  customari-  ly  employed  by  people,  and  yet  He  created  a  human  being,  for  surely  no  one  in  his  right  mind  considered  Eve  a  robot.  The  department  then  charged  Mattrass  and  his  successors  with  vio-  lating  the  MacFlacon  Act,  since  as  a  robot  (or  robots)  he  had  come  into  possession  of  a  celestial  body,  and  robots  are  forbidden  ownership  of  planets  or  any  other  real  estate.  This  time  the  lawyer  submitted  to  the  Supreme  Court  all  the  documents  that  had  been  issued  by  the  department  against  Mattrass.  First-he  empha-  " b"  sized-it  was  evident,  when  one  com-  pared  these  texts,  that  in  the  State  Department's  vie  w  Mattrass  wa  s  both  his  own  father  and  his  own  son,  and,  at  the  same  time,  a  c  eles  t  ial  body.  Se  c-  ond,  t  he  de  partm  en  t  had  misinter-  preted  the  MacFlacon  Act.  The  body  of  a  ce  rtain  individual,  of  Citizen  Cathodius  Mattrass,  had  been  arbi-  trarily  designated  a  planet.  This  con-  clusion  was  based  on  a  legal,  logi  cal,  an  d  s  emantic  absur  di  ty.  &gt;  That  was  ho  w  it  began.  Soon  all  the  press  wrote  about  was  the  &quot;Celestial  Body-Father-Son.&quot;  The  gov  ernm  ent  commenced  new  legal  actions,  but  each  was  nipped  in  the  bud  by  Mat-  t  rass's  indefatigable  lawye  r  .  The  State  Department  understood  perfectly  that  Mattrass  was  not  float-  ing  about  in  multiplied  form  in  the  Crab  Nebula  for  the  fun  of  it.  No,  his  purpose  was  to  create  a  legal  prece-  dent.  Mattrass's  going  unpunished  would  have  incalculable  consequences,  so  the  finest  specialists  pored  over  the  record  day  and  night,  devising  ever  more  tortuous  juridical  constructions,  in  the  toils  of  which  Mattrass  was  to  meet  his  end.  But  each  action  was  countered  immediately  by  Mattrass's  legal  adviser.  MYSELF  followed  the  course  of  this  struggle  with  keen  interest.  Then,  unexpectedly,  the  Bar  Associa-  tion  invited  me  to  a  special  plenary  session  devoted  to  the  problems  of  in-  terpreting  &quot;Casus  United  [REDACTED]  contre  Cathodius  Mattrass  ales  Cathodius  Sub  One  alfes  the  offspring  of  Mat-  trass  and  Fortinbras  elies  a  planet  in  the  Crab  Nebula.&quot;  I  was  there  at  the  designated  time  and  place,  and  found  the  hall  packed.  The  flower  of  the  bar  filled  tier  upon  tier  of  seats.  The  deliberations  were  already  in  progress.  I  sat  in  one  of  the  last  rows  and  began  listening  to  the  gray  speaker.  &quot;Distinguished  colleagues!&quot;  he  said,  arms  upraised.  &quot;Great  difficulties  await  us  when  we  proceed  to  a  legal  analysis  of  this  problem!  A  certain  Mattrass  remakes  himself  into  robots  with  the  aid  of  a  certain  Fortinbras  and  at  the  same  time  enlarges  himself  on  a  scale  of  one  to  a  million.  That  is  how  the  matter  looks  to  a  layman,  an  ignoramus,  a  fool  incapable  of  per-  ceiving  the  abyss  of  legal  problems  that  opens  before  our  shocked  eyes!  We  must  determine  first  of  all  with  whom  we  are  dealing-a  human  be-  ing,  a  robot,  a  government,  a  planet,  children,  a  conspiracy,  a  demonstra-  tion,  or  an  uprising.  Consider  how  much  depends  on  this  decision.  If,  for  example,  we  find  that  we  are  dealing  not  with  a  sovereign  state  but  with  a  rebellious  band  of  robots,  a  sort  of  electronic  gang,  then  we  are  bound  not  by  international  law  but  by  the  common  statutes  regarding  disorder-  ly  conduct  in  public  places!  If  we  rule  that  Mattrass,  notwithstanding  his  multiplication,  still  exists  and  also  has  children,  it  follows  that  this  indi-  vidual  has  given  birth  to  himsel{-  which  causes  the  legal  system  terrible  trouble,  since  we  have  no  laws  cover-  ing  this,  and  mullum  crimen  sine  lege!  I  therefore  propose  that  Profes-  sor  Ping  Ling,  the  renowned  author-  " b"ity  on  international  law,  be  the  first  to  take  the  floor!&quot;  The  venerable  Professor,  greeted  with  warm  applause,  mounted  the  po-  dium.  &quot;Gentlemen,&quot;  he  saidin  an  aged  but  powerful  voice.  &quot;Let  us  con-  sider,  first,  how  a  state  is  established.  It  is  established  in  various  ways,  is  it  not?  Our  country,  for  example,  was  once  an  English  colony;  then  it  de-  clared  its  independence  and  became  a  state.  Does  this  occur  in  Mattrass's  case?  The  answer  is:  If  Mattrass,  when  remaking  himself  into  robots,  was  of  sound  mind,  then  his  state-  creating  act  has  legal  validity,  and  we  could  define  his  nationality  aselec-  tronic.  If,  on  the  other  hand,  he  was  deranged,  the  act  cannot  be  legally  recognized.&quot;  Here  an  old  man,  grayer  even  than  the  first,  jumped  up  in  the  middle  of  the  hall  and  cried,  &quot;High  Court-I  mean  gentlemen!  I  take  the  liberty  of  observing  that  if  Mattrass  was  an  in-  sane  state-creator,  his  descendants  may  still  be  sane;  the  state,  which  existed  originally  as  a  product  of  a  private  madness  and  thus  had  the  nature  of  a  morbid  symptom,  thereafter  existed  publicly,  de  fecto,  by  the  very  consent  of  its  elec-  tronic  inhabitants  to  the  existing  situation.  And  because  no  onecan  forbid  the  inhabitants  of  a  state  -who  themselves  have  determined  its  legislative  system-to  acknowledge  even  the  most  insane  au-  thority  (as  has  happened  more  thanonce  in  his-  tory),  the  existence  of  Mattrass's  state  de  facto  entails  its  existence  de  jure!&quot;  &quot;My  honorable  oppo-  nent  will  forgive  me,&quot;  said  Professor  Ping  Ling,  &quot;butMattrass  was  our  citizen,  and  consequent,  1y_\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;What  of  it?&quot;  shouted  the  irascible  old  man  from  the  hall.  &quot;Either  we  rec-  ognize  or  we  do  not  rec-  ognize  Mattrass's  state-  creating  act.  If  we  recog-  nize  it  and  a  sovereign  state  has  arisen,  then  we  have  no  claim  against  it.  If,  on  the  other  hand,  we  do  not  recognize  it,  then  either  we  are  dealing  with corporate  body  or  we  are  not.If  we  are  not,  if  we  do  not  have  before  us  a  legal  entity,  then  the  entire  problem  exists  only  for  the  sweepers  of  the  Cosmic  Trash  Removal  Agency,  since  there  is  a  pile  of  scrap  in  the  Crab  Nebula,  and  our  assembly  has  nothing  at  all  to  deliberate  on!  If,  however,  we  have  before  usa  legal  entity,  then  another  question  arises.  Sidereal  law  provides  for  the  arrest-that  is,  the  deprivation  of  freedom-of  legal  and  physical  entities  on  a  planet  or  aboard  a  ship.  The  so-called  Mattrass  is  not  aboard  a  ship.  On  a  planet,  rather.  We  should  therefore  apply  for  his  extradi-  tion.  But  there  is  no  one  to  whom  we  can  apply.  Moreover,  the  planet  on  which  he  lives  is  himself.  Therefore  this  place,  considered  from  the  only  standpoint  that  concerns  us-namely,  the  majesty  of  the  law-constitutes  a  void,  a  kind  of  juridical  nullity;  but  neither  our  civil  law  nor  our  adminis-  trative  law  nor  our  international  law  deals  with  nullities.  Therefore,  the  re-  marks  of  esteemed  Professor  Ping  Ling  cannot  shed  light  on  the  prob-  lem,  because  the  problem  does  not  ex-  ist!&quot;  Having  stunned  the  honorable     assembly  with  this  conclusion,  theold  man  sat  down.  During  the  next  six  hours,  I  heard  some  twenty  speakers.  They  showed,  logically  and  irrefutably,  that  Mattrass  existed  and  that  he  did  not  exist;  that  he  had  established  a  state  of  robots  and  that  he  was  composed  of  such  mechan-  ical  organisms;  that  he  should  be  scrapped  because  he  had  broken  a  great  number  of  laws  and  that  he  had  broken  no  law.  Attorney  Wurple's  view,  that  Mattrass  was  sometimes  a  planet,  sometimes  a  robot,  and  sometimes  nothing  at  all-a  middle-of-the-road  view  meant  to  satisfy  everyone-  aroused  general  indignation  and  was  supported  by  no  one  except  its  origina-  tor.  But  that  was  a  trifle  compared  with  the  subsequent  deliberations,  for  Senior  Assistant  Milger  showed  that  Mattrass,  by  making  himself  into  ro-  bots,  had  thereby  multiplied  his  per-  sonality  and  now  numbered  about  three  hundred  thousand.  Because,  however,  there  was  no  question  of  this  collectivity  representing  a  group  of  different  individuals,  since  it  was  but  one  and  the  same  individual  repeated  many  times,  Mattrass  was  asingle  en-  tity  in  three  hundred  thousand  aspects.  In  reply  Judge  Hubble  averred  that  the  whole  issue  had  been  viewed  in-  correctly  from  the  begin-  ning:  Since  Mattrass  re-  made  himself  from  a  hu-  man  being  into  robots,  these  robots  were  not  he  but  someone  else;  since  they  were  someone  else,  it  was  necessary  to  ascertain  who  they  were;  but  if  they  were  not  human,  they  were  no  one;  conse-  quently,  neither  a  jurid-  ical  nor  a  physical  prob-  lem  existed,  for  there  was  no  one  whatever  in  the  Crab  Nebula.  I  had  already  been  pain-  fully  bumped  around  sev-  eral  times  by  the  incensed  participants.  The  security  guards  and  the  medical  attendants  had  their  hands  full.  Then  suddenly  cries  rang  out  that  electronic  brains  disguised  as  law-  yers  were  present  in  the  hall  and  should  be  re-  moved  at  once,  since  their  bias  was  indisputable-     " b"   not  to  mention  the  fact  that  they  had  no  right  to  take  part  in  the  delibera-  tions.  The  chairman  began  walking  about  the  hall  with  a  small  compass  in  hand;  whenever  its  needle  quivered  and  turned  toward  anyone  seated  in  the  audience,  drawn  by  the  iron  hid-  den  under  his  clothing,  the  indi-  vidual  was  immediately  unmasked  and  thrown  out.  In  this  way  the  hall  was  half  emptied  during  the  endless  speeches  of  Professors  Fitts,  Pitts,  and  Clabenti;  the  last  was  interrupted  in  midsentence  when  the  compass  be-  trayed  his  electronic  origin.  After  a  short  recess,  during  which  we  ate  in  the  cafeteria,  to  the  increas-  ing  din  of  debate,  I  returned  to  the  hall  holding  my  jacket  in  place  (all  the  buttons  had  been  torn  off  by  impas-  sioned  lawyers  who  had  kept  pulling  me  by  the  lapels)  and  noticed  a  large  X-ray  machine  near  the  podium.  At-  torney  Plussek  was  speaking.  He  had  just  declared  that  Mattrass  was  a  ran-  dom  cosmic  phenomenon  when  the  chairman  marched  up  to  me  with  a threatening  look;  the  compass  needle  spun  wildly  in  his  palm.  As  the  secu-  rity  guards  collared  me,  I  emptied  my  pockets  of  a  penknife,  a  can  opener,  and  a  tea  ball,  and  tore  the  nickel-  plated  buckles  off  my  garters.  No  longer  acting  upon  the  magnetic  nee-  dle,  I  was  allowed  to  participate  fur-  ther  in  the  deliberations.  Forty-three  more  had  been  unmasked  as  robots  when  Professor  Dewey  told  us  that  Mattrass  could  be  treated  as  a  sort  of  cosmic  aggregation.  I  was  thinking  that  this  had  been  said  already-ap-  parently,  the  lawyers  were  running  out  of  ideas-when  another  inspection  was  made.  Now  all  the  participants  were  X-rayed  unceremoniously,  and  it  turned  out  that  under  their  impeccably  tailored  suits  they  were  hiding  plastic,  corundum,  nylon,  crystal,  and  even  straw  parts.  Someone  made  of  woollen  yarn  was  reportedly  discovered  in  one  of  the  last  rows.  When  the  next  speaker  stepped  down  from  the  po-  dium,  I  found  myself  conspicuously  alone  in  the  middle  of  the  huge  hall.  The  speaker  was  X-rayed  and  imme-  diately  thrown  out.  Then  the  chair-  man,  the  last  person  besides  me  to  remain,  approached  my  chair.  All  of  a  sudden-I  don't  know  why-I  took  the  compass  from  his  hand;  it  whirled  accusingly  and  pointed  at  him.  I  tapped  his  belly  with  a  knuckle,  and  it  rang.  Without  thinking  I  seized  him  by  the  scruff  of  the  neck  and  threw  him  out.  I  stood  facing  several  hun-  dred  abandoned  briefcases,  thick  fold-  ers  with  documents,  canes,  derbies  and  other  hats,  leather-bound  books,  and  galoshes.  Pacing  the  empty  hall  for  a  while  and  seeing  that  there  was  noth-  ing  for  me  to  do  there,  I  turned  sharply  and  went  home.  "