 b"I CAME  home  the  other  day  and   my  Saint  Bernard,  Tiffany,  had  a  really  guilty  expression  on  her  face,  with  her  ears  all  hanging  down.  I  got  a  hunch.  I  went  into  the  living  room,  and  there  were  all  the  cushions  on  the  floor,  and  dog  hairs  all  over  the  davenport.  She  knows  she's  not  supposed  to  be  up  there.  I  said,  &quot;Come  here,  you!&quot;  and  I  whacked  her  with  a  rolled-up  newspaper.  She  knew  she  had  it  coming.  She  went  out  in  the  mud  room  and  lay  down  with  her  head  right  on  the  floor  while  I  cleaned  up  the  mess  she'd  made.  Fi-  nally,  I  figured  she'd  had  enough,  so  I  said,  &quot;Come  on,  girl,  you're  a  good  dog  now.&quot;  I  went  to  give  her  a  Liv-a-  Snap,  and  the  next  thing  I  knew  she  wagged  her  tail  so  hard  she  knocked  a  full  ashtray  right  off  the  kitchen  table!  A  Note  on  tug  AutHor:  Ian  Fre-  zier  is  a  writer  who  soaks  up  experi-  ence  like  a  sponge.  He  experiences  life  as  vividly  and  adjectivally  as  he  writes  about  it.  His  appetite  for  life  is  as  large  as  the  man  himself,  or  even  somewhat  larger,  since  Ian  Frazier  is  of  average  size  and  his  appetite  for  life  is  way  above  average.  He  has  been  embracing  all  of  experience  since  he  was  eleven  years  old,  when  he  began  riding  his  bike  to  school  and  so  escaped  the  crushing,  stultifying  influence  of  his  parents.  He  spent  his  pre-teen  years  travelling,  hunting,  and  fishing  as  a  protege  of  novelist  Ernest  Heming-  way,  whom  he  later  broke  with  when  he  noticed  that  the  older  writer  contin-  ually  addressed  him  as  &quot;Daughter.&quot;  Now  in  his  mid-thirties,  a  mature  writer  who  has  triumphantly  found  his  own  voice,  he  remains  (paradoxically)  very  much  a  child  in  many  ways.  He  has  that  type  of  courage  which  one  finds  so  rarely  in  an  adult  in  our  soci-  ety,  and  that  is  the  courage  to  play.  It's  been  saidthat  the  eminent  student  of  the  human  mind  Carl  Jung  abandoned  his  career  and  his  responsibilities  in  his  sixties  and  spent  a  year  building  sand  castles  on  the  beach;  that  would  be  as  nothing  to  Ian  Frazier.  He  is  just  constantly  playing.  Sometimes  he'll  give  oranges  to  people  on  the  subway.  Sometimes  he'll  pull  a  chair  out  from  under  a  friend  when  that  friend  is  about  to  sit  down.  Sometimes  he'll  send  people  unnecessary  packages  Air  Ex-  press,  making  sure  that  the  package  will  arrive  at  an  inconvenient  time.  He  is  blessed  with  a  fractured  vision,  and  a  conviction  that  the  world  is  mad.  In  spite  of  that  (or  perhaps  because  of  that),  he  doesn't  judge  another  fellou  until  he  has  walkedaround  for  a  while  in  that  fellow's  shoes.  And  not  just  guys'  shoes-sometimes  he  walks  around  in  ladies  shoes,  too:  ankle-  straps,  Mary  Janes,  high  heels,  flats,  and  sling-backs.  And  all  the  people  coming  around  his  apartment  trying  to  get  their  shoes  back,  and  the  con-  fusion,  the  arguments-unpleasant,  perhaps,  but  all  part  of  a  writer's  life.  Any  experience  that  happens,  it  doesn't  just  have  to  bea  good  experi-  ence,  and-BAM-Ian  Frazier  will  convert  it  to  writing  of  some  kind.  Say  he's  flying  from  New  York  to  Mi-  ami  and  his  plane  has  a  layover  at  a  Southern  airport  like  [REDACTED].  Within  a  matter  of  minutes,  he'll  be  writing  a  postcard,  the  scent  of  heliotrope  and  verbena  and  honeysuckle  pervading  his  prose,  and  he  will  be  infused  with  45  a  tremendous  sense  of  place.  Or,  to  give  another  example,  say  he's  sitting  around  at  aparty  and  someone  puts  an  old  song  on  the  record-player  and  the  song  reminds  him  of  eighth  grade.  Suddenly  it  will  be  as  if  he  actually  is  in  eighth  grade  for  a  while  in  his  mind.  T  hen  maybe  he'll  notice  a  Fed-  ders  air-conditioner  in  the  window  next  to  where  he's  sitting  and  he'll  be  reminded  of  a  Fedders  air-condi-  tioner  he  owned  in  1975  that  broke  down  once  in  the  hottest  part  of  the  summer.  Then  something  else  will  bring  another  memory  to  mind  and  of  he'll  go  again.  He'll  be  in  the  same  room  with  you  and  yet  not  there,  all  at  the  same  time.  His  writing  shows  evidence  of  the  strong  influence  of  Sardou,  Mazo  de  la  Roche,  and  Juanita  Bartlett.  Some  critics  have  called  him  the  white  Paul  Laurence  Dunbar.  He  lives  in  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  with  eight  mistresses,  one  of  whom  is  a  former  Miss  Universe  runner-  up.  Everyone  he  has  ever  met  is  com-  pletely  crazy  about  him. "