 b"ANNIE brings  a  hand-delivered  let-  A  ter  to  her  father.  They  stand  together  on  the  deck  that  ex-  tends  far  over  the  grassy  lawn  that  slopes  to  the  lake,  and  he  reads  and  she  looks  off  at  the  water.  When  she  was  a  little  girl  she  would  stand  on  the  metal  table  pushed  to  the  front  of  the  deck  and  read  the  letters  aloud  to  her  fa-  ther.  If  he  sat,  she  sat.  Later,  sheread  them  over  his  shoulder.  Now  she  is  sixteen,  and  she  gives  him  the  letter  and  stares  at  the  trees  or  the  water  or  the  boat  bobbing  at  the  end  of  the  dock.  It  has  probably  never  occurred  to  her  that  she  does  not  have  to  be  there  when  he  reads  them.  Dear  MarTiN,  Last  week  the  bottom  fell  out  of  the  birdhouse  you  hung  in  the  tree  the  summer  Annie  was  three.  Or  something  gnawed  at  it  and  the  bottom  came  out.  I  don't  know.  I  put  the  wood  underone  of  the  big  clay  pots  full  of  pansies,  just  to  keep  it  for  old  times'  sake.  (I've  given  up  the  fountain  pen  for  a  felt  tip.  I'm  really  not  a  roman-  tic.)I  send  to  you  for  a  month  our  daugh-  ter.  She  still  wears  bangs,  to  cover  that  little  nick  in  her  forehead  from  the  time  she  fell  out  of  the  swing.  The  swing  sur-  vived  until  last  summer  when-or  maybe  I  told  you  in  last  year's  letter-Marcy  Smith  came  by  with  her  &quot;friend&quot;  Hamilton,  and  they  were  so  taken  by  it  that  I  gave  it  to  them,  leaving  the  ropes  dangling.  I  mean  that  I  gave  them  the  old  green  swing  seat,  with  the  decals  of  roses  even  uglier  than  the  scraggly  ones  we  grew.Tell  her  to  pull  her  bangs  back  and  show  the  world  her  beautiful  widow's  peak.  She  now  drinks  spritzers.  For  the  first  two  weeks  she's  gone  I'll  be  in  Ogunquit  with  Tom.  He  is  younger  than  you,  but  no  one  will  ever  duplicate  the  effect  of  your  slow  smile.  Have  a  good  summer  together.  I  will  be  thinking  of  you  at  unexpected  times  (unexpected  to  me,  of  course).  Love,  ANITA  He  hands  the  letter  on  to  me,  and  then  pours  club  soda  and  Chablis  into  a  tall  glass  for  Annie  and  fills  his  own  glass  with  wine  alone.  He  hesitates  while  I  read,  and  I  know  he's  wonder-  ing  whether  the  letter  will  disturb  me  -whether  I'll  want  club  soda  or  wine.  &quot;Soda,&quot;  I  say.  Martin  and  Anita  have  been  divorced  for  ten  years.  In  these  first  few  days  of  Annie's  visit,  things  aren't  going  very  well.  My  friends  think  that  it's  just  about  everybody's  summer  story.  Rachel's  summers  are  spent  with  her  ex-hus-  band,  and  with  his  daughter  by  his  second  marriage,  the  daughter's  boy-  friend,  and  the  boyfriend's  best  friend.  The  golden  retriever  isn't  there  this  summer,  because  last  summer  he  drowned.  No  one  knows  how.  Jean  is  letting  her  optometrist,  with  whom  she  once  hadan  affair,  stay  in  her  house  in  the  Hamptons  on  weekends.  She  stays  in  town,  because  she  is  in  love  with  a  chef.  Hazel's  the  exception.  She  teaches  summer  school,  and  when  it  ends  she  and  her  husband  and  their  son  go  to  Block  Island  for  two  weeks,  to  the  house  they  always  rent.  Her  husband  has  his  job  back,  after  a  year  in  A.A.  I  study  her  life  and  wonder  how  it  works.  Of  the  three  best  friends  I  have,  she  blushes  the  most  easily,  is  the  worst  dressed,  is  the  least  politi-  cally  informed,  and  prefers  AM  rock  stations  to  FM  classical  music.  Our  common  denominator  is  that  none  of  us  was  married  in  a  churchand  all  of  us  worried  about  the  results  of  the  blood  test  we  had  before  we  could  get  a  marriage  license.  But  there  are  so  many  differences.  Say  their  names  to  me  and  what  comes  to  mind  is  that  Rachel  cried  when  she  heard  Dylan's  Self  Portrait&quot;  album,  because,  to  her,  that  meant  that  everything  was  over;  Jean  fought  off  a  man  in  a  super-  market  parking  lot  who  was  intent  on  raping  her,  and  still  has  nightmares  about  the  arugula  she  was  going  to  the  storeto  get;  Hazel  can  recite  Yeats'  &quot;The  Circus  Animals'  Desertion&quot;  and  bring  tearsto  your  eyes.  Sitting  on  the  deck,  I  tryto  explain  to  Annie  that  there  should  be  solidar-  ity  between  women,  but  that  when  you  look  for  a  common  bond  you're  really  looking  for  a  common  denominator,  and  you  can't  do  that  with  women.  Annie  puts  down  &quot;My  Mother/My  Self&quot;  and  looks  out  at  the  water.  Martin  and  I,  wondering  when  she  will  ever  want  to  swim,  go  about  our  days  as  usual.  She's  gone  biking  with  him,  so  there's  no  hostility.  She  has  al-  ways  sat  at  the  foot  of  the  bed  while  Martin  was  showering  at  night  and  talked  nonsense  with  me  while  she  twisted  the  ends  of  her  hair,  and  she  still  does.  At  her  age,  it  isn't  important  that  she's  not  in  love,  and  she  was  once  before  anyway.  When  she  pours     for  herself,  its  sixty-forty  white  wine  and  club  soda.  Annie-the  baby  pushed  in  a  swing.  The  bottom  fell  out  of  the  birdhouse.  Anita  really  knows  how  to  hit  below  the  belt.  MARTIN  is  sulky  at  the  end  of  the  week,  floating  in  the  Whaler.  &quot;Do  you  ever  think  that  Anita's  thinking  of  you?&quot;  I  ask.  &quot;Telepathy,  you  mean?&quot;  he  says.  He  has  a  good  tan.  A  scab  by  his  elbow.  Somehow,  he's  hurt  himself.  His  wet  hair  is  drying  in  curly  strands.  He  hasn't  had  a  haircut  since  we  came  to  the  summer  house.  &quot;No.  Do  you  ever  wonder  if  she  just  might  be  thinking  about  you?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  think  about  her,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;You  read  the  letter  Annie  brings  you  every  year.&quot;  &quot;I'm  curious.&quot;  &quot;Just  curious  for  that  one  brief  min-  ute?&quot;  Yes,  he  nods.  &quot;Notice  that  I'm  al-  ways  the  one  that  opens  the  junk  mail,  too,&quot;  he  says.  According  to  Martin,  he  and  Anita  gradually  drifted  apart.  Or,  at  times  when  he  blames  himself,  he  says  it's  because  he  was  still  a  child  when  he  married  her.  He  married  her  the  week  of  his  twentieth  birthday.  He  says  that  his  childhood  wounds  still  weren't  healed;  Anita  was  Mama,  she  was  the  person  he  always  felt  he  had  to  prove  himself  to--the  stuff  any  psychiatrist  will  run  down  for  you,he  says  now,  trailing  his  hand  in  the  water.  &quot;It's  like  there  was  a  time  in  your  life  when  you  believed  in  paste,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Think  how  embarrassed  you'd  be  to  go  buy  paste  today.  Now  it's  rubber  cement.  Or  at  least  Elmer's  glue.  When  I  was  young  I  just  didn't  know  things.&quot;  I  never  had  any  doubt  when  things  ended  with  my  first  husband.  We  knew  things  were  wrong;  we  were  going  to  a  counsellor  and  either  biting  our  tongues  or  arguing  because  we'd  loosened  them  with  too  much  alcohol,  trying  to  pretend  that  it  didn't  matter  that  I  couldn't  have  a  baby.  One  weekend  Jason  and  I  went  to  Sara-  toga,  early  in  the  spring,  to  visit  friends.  It  was  all  a  little  too  sun-dap-  pled.  Too  House  Beautiful,  the  way  the  sun,  in  the  early  morning,  shone  through  the  lace  curtains  and  paled  the  walls  to  polka  dots  of  light.  The  redwood  picnic  table  on  the  stone-  covered  patio  was  as  bright  in  the  sun-  light  as  if  it  had  been  waxed.  We  were  " b"drinking  iced  tea,  all  four  of  usout  in  the  yard  early  in  the  morning,  amazed  at  what  a  perfect  day  it  was,  how  fast  the  garden  was  growing,  how  huge  the  heads  of  the  peonies  were.  Then  some  people  stopped  by,  with  their  lit-  tle  girl-people  new  to  Saratoga,  who  really  had  no  friends  there  yet.  The  little  girl  was  named  Alison,  and  she  took  a  liking  to  Jason-came  up  to  him  without  hesitation,  the  way  a  puppy  that's  been  chastised  will  in-  stantly  choose  someone  in  the  room  to  cower  by,  or  a  bee  will  zero  in  on  one  member  of  a  group.  She  came  in-  nocently,  the  way  a  child  would  come,  fascinated  by  ...  by  his  curly  hair?  The  way  the  sunlight  reflected  off  the  rims  of  his  glasses?  The  wedding  ring  on  his  hand  as  he  rested  his  arm  on  the  picnic  table?  And  then,  as  the  rest  of  us  talked,  there  was  a  squealing  game,  with  the  child  suddenly  climbing  from  the  ground  to  his  lap,  some  whisper-  ing,  some  laughing,  and  then  the  child,  held  around  her  middle,  raised  above  his  head,  parallel  to  the  ground.  The  game  went  on  and  on,  with  cries  of  &quot;Again!&quot;  and  &quot;Higher!&quot;  until  the  child  was  shrill  and  Jason  complained  of  numb  arms,  and  for  a  second  I  looked  away  from  the  conversation  the  rest  of  us  were  having  and  I  saw  her  " b"raised  above  him,  smiling  down,  and  Jason  both  frowningand  armused-  that  little  smile  at  the  edge  of  his  lips  -and  the  child's  mouth,  wide  with  delight,  her  long  blond  hair  flopped  forward.  He  was  keeping  her  raised  off  the  ground,  and  she  was  hoping  that  it  would  never  end,  and  in  that  second  I  knew  that  for  Jason  and  me  it  was  over.  We  took  a  big  bunch  of  pink  peonies  back  to  the  city  with  us,  stuck  in  a  glass  jar  with  water  in  the  bottom  that  I  held  wedged  between  my  feet.  I  had  on  a  skirt,  and  the  flowersflopped  as  we  went  over  the  bumpy  road  and  the  sensation  I  felt  was  amazing:  it  wasn't  a  tickle,  but  a  pain.  When  he  stopped  for  gas  I  went  into  the  bathroom  and  cried  and  washed  my  face  and  dried  it  on  one  of  those  brown  paper  towels  that  smell  more  strongly  than  any  perfume.  I  combed  my  hair.  When  I  was  sure  I  looked  fine  I  came  back  to  the  car  and  sat  down,  putting  one  foot  on  each  side  of  the  jar.  He  started  to  drive  out  of  the  gas  station,  and  then  he  just  drifted  to  a  stop.  It  was  still  sunny.  Late  afternoon.  We  sat  there  with  the  sun  heating  us  and  other  cars  pulling  around  our  car,  and  he  said,  'You  are  impossible.  You  are  so  emo-  tional.  After  a  perfect  day,  what  have  you  been  crying  about?&quot;  Then  there  were  tears,  and  since  I  said  nothing  eventually  he  started  todrive:  out  into  the  merging  lane,  then  onto  the  high-     way,  speeding  all  the  way  back  to  New  York  in  silence.  It  was  already  over.  The  only  other  thing  I  remember  about  that  day  is  that  down  by  Thirty-  fourth  Street  we  saw  the  same  man  who  had  been  there  the  week  before,  selling  roses  guaranteed  to  smell  sweet  and  to  be  everlasting.  There  he  was,  in  the  same  place,  his  roses  on  a  stand  behind  him.  \xe2\x80\x9c7E  swim,  and  gradually  work  our  way  back  to  the  gunwale  of  the  Whaler:  six  hands,  white-knuck-  led,  holding  the  rim.  I  slide  along,  hand  over  hand,  then  move  sothat  my  body  touches  Martin's  from  behind.  With  my  arms  around  his  chest,  I  kiss  his  neck.  He  turns  and  smiles  and  kisses  me.  Then  I  kick  away  and  go  to  where  Annie  is  holding  on  to  the  boat,  her  cheek  on  her  hands,  staring  at  her  father.  I  swim  up  to  her,  push  her  wet  bangs  to  one  side,  and  kiss  her  fore-  head.  She  looks  aggravated,  and  turns  her  head  away.  Just  as  quickly,  she  turns  it  back.  &quot;Am  I  interrupting  you  two  getting  it  on  out  here?&quot;  she  says.  &quot;I  kissed  both  of  you,&quot;  I  say,  be-  tween  them  again,  feeling  the  weight-  lessness  of  my  legs  dangling  as  I  hold  on.  She  continues  to  stare  at  me.  &quot;Girls  kissing  girls  is  so  dumb,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;It's  like  the  world's  full  of  stupid  hostesses  who  graduated  from  Sweet  Briar.&quot;  Martin  looks  at  her  silently  for  a  long  time.  &quot;I  guess  your  moth-  er's  not  very  demon-  strative,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Were  you  ever?&quot;  she  says.  &quot;Did  you  love  Anita  when  you  had  me?&quot;  &quot;Of  course  I  did,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Didn't  you  know  that?&quot;  &quot;Itdoesn't  matter  what  I  know,&quot;  she  says,  as  angryand  petulant  asachild.  &quot;How  come  you  don't  feed  me  birdseed?&quot;  she  says.  &quot;How  come  you  don't  feed  the  carrier  pigeon?&quot;  He  pauses  until  he  understands  what  she  is  talking  about.  &quot;The  letters  just  go  one  way,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Do  you  have  too  much  dignity  to  answer  them,  or  isit  too  risky  to  reveal  anything?&quot;  &quot;Honey,&quot;  he  says,  lowering  his  voice,  &quot;I  don't  have  anything  to  say.&quot;  &quot;That  you  lovedher  and  now  you  don't?&quot;  she  says.  &quot;That's  what  isn't  worth  saying?&quot;  He's  brought  his  knees  up  to  his  chin.  The  scab  by  his  elbow  is  pale  when  he  clasps  his  arm  around  his  knees.  &quot;Well,  I  think  that's  bullshit,&quot;  she  says.  She  looks  at  me.  &quot;And  I  think  you're  bullshit,  too.  You  don't  care  about  the  bond  between  women.  You  just  care  about  hanging  on  to  him.  When  you  kissed  me,  it  was  patroniz-  ing.&quot;  There  are  tears  now.  Tears  that  are  ironic,  because  there  is  so  much  water  everywhere.  Today  she's  angryand  alone,  and  I  float  between  them  know-  ing  exactly  how  each  one  feels  and,  like  the  little  girl  Alison  suspended  above  Jason's  head,  knowing  that  de-  sire  that  can  be  more  overwhelming  than  love-the  desire,  for  one  brief  minute,  simply  to  get  off  the  earth. "