 b"YOU  couldn't  trust  those  eyes,&quot;  i  people  on  Cap  Ferrat  say,  for  they  find  it  hard  to  be  charita-  ble  where  Mrs.  Vansittart  is  con-  cerned.  &quot;The  Wife  Whom  Nobody  Cares  For,&quot;  Joe-John  remarks,  at-  taching  a  tinselly  jangle  to  the  state-  ment,  which  manages  to  suggest  that  Mrs.  Vansittart  belongs  in  neon  lights.  At  fifty-four,  so  Joe-John  has  re-  marked  as  well,  she  remains  a  winner  and  a  taker,  for  in  Saint-Jean  and  Monte  Carlo  young  men  still  glance  a  second  time  when  the  slim  body  passes  by,  their  attention  lingering  usually  on  the  rhythmic  hips.  Years  ago  in  Sici-  ly-so  the  story  is  told-a  peasant  woman  spat  at  her.  Mrs.  Vansittart  had  gone  to  see  the  ancient  ruins  at  Segesta,  but  what  outraged  the  peasant  woman  was  to  observe  Mrs.  Vansittart  half  undressed  on  the  grass,  permitting  a  local  man  to  have  his  way  with  her.  And  then,  as  though  nothing  un-  towardhad  happened,  she  waited  at  the  railway  station  for  the  next  train  to  Catania.  It  was  then  that  the  woman  spat  at  her.  Mrs.  Vansittart  is  556e6974656420537461746573n,  but  when  she  divides  her  perfect  lips  the  THE  68  semsiBLE     voice  that  drawls  is  almost  that  of  an  English  duchess.  Few  intonations  be-  tray  her  origins  as  a  dentist's  daugh-  ter  from  [REDACTED]  Falls,  [REDACTED];  no  phrase  sounds  out  of  place.  Her  hus-  band,  Harry,  shares  with  her  thatpol-  ished  Englishness-commanded  to,  so  it  is  said  on  Cap  Ferrat,  as  he  is  commanded  in  so  much  else.  Early  in  their  marriage  the  Vansittarts  spent  ten  years  in  [REDACTED],  where  Mrs.  Van-  sittart  is  reported  to  have  had  three  affairs  and  sundry  casual  conjunctions.  Harry,  even  then,  was  writing  his  cy-  cle  of  songs.  The  Vansittarts  live  now  in  the  Villa  Teresa,  just  off  the  Avenue  du  S\xc3\xa9maphore,  and  they  do  not  intend  to  move  again.  Their  childless  marriage  has  drifted  all  over  Europe,  from  the  hotels  of  Florence  and  [REDACTED]  to  those  of  Chateau-d'Oex  and  [REDACTED]  and  Se-  ville.  To  the  Villa  Teresa  the  people  from  the  other  villas  come  to  play  tennis  twicea  week.  In  the  evening  there  is  bridge,  in  one  villa  or  another.  Riches  have  brought  these  people  to  Cap  Ferrat,  riches  maintain  them.  They  have  come  from  almost  all  the  European  countries,  from  [REDACTED]  and  other  continents.  They  have  come  for  the  sun  and  the  bougainvillea,  purchasing  villas  that  were  created  to  immortalize  the  personalities  of  previ-  ous  owners,  or  building  for  themselves  in  the  same  whimsical  manner.  The  varying  styles  of  architecture  have  romance  and  nostalgia  in  common:  a  cluster  of  stone  animals  to  remind  their  owners  of  somewhere  else,  a  cupola  added  because  a  precious  visitor  once  suggested  it.  Terra-cotta  roofs  slope  decoratively,  the  eyes  of  emper-  orsare  sightless  in  their  niches.  Mimosa  and  pale  wisteria  add  fairy-  tale  color;  cypresses  cool  the  midday  sun.  Against  the  alien  outside  world  a  mesh  of  steel  lurks  within  the  bound-  aryhedges;  stern  warnings  abound,  of  a  Chien  M\xc3\xa9chant  and  the  ferocious  S\xc3\xa9curit\xc3\xa9  du  Cap.  In  middle  age,  Mrs.  Vansittart's  life  is  one  of  swimming  pools  that  are  bluer  than  the  blue  Mediterranean  and  titles  that  recall  forever  a  mistress  or  a  lover,  or  someone  else's  road  to  suc-  cess,  or  an  obsession  that  remains  mys-  terious:  Villa  Banana,  Villa  Magda-  lene,  Morning  Dew,  Waikiki,  Villa  Glorietta,  Villa  Stephen,  So  What,  My  Way.  The  Daimlers  and  the  Bentleys  slide  along  the  Boulevard  G\xc3\xa9n\xc3\xa9ral-de-Gaulle,  cocktails  are  taken  onsome  special  occasion  in  the  green  bar  of  the  Grand-Hotel.  The  Blochs  and  the  Cecils  and  the  Borromeos,  who  play  tennis  on  the  court  at  the  Villa  Teresa,  have  never  quarrelled  with  Mrs.  Vansittart,  for  quarrels  would  be  a  shame.  Joe-John  is  her  partner:  her  husband  plays  neither  ten-  nis  nor  bridge.  He  cooks  instead,  and  helps  old  Pierre  in  the  garden.  Harry  is  originally  of  [REDACTED]  Falls  also,  the  inheritor  of  a  paper  mill.  The  Villa  Teresa  is  as  the  Vansit-  tarts  wish  it  to  be  now;  and  as  the  years  go  by,  nothing  much  will  change.  In  the  large  room  that  they  call  the  salon,  there  is  the  timeless  sculptured  wall,a  variety  of  colors  and  ceramic  shapes.  There  are  the  great  Italian  urns,  the  flowers  in  their  vases  changed  every  day;  the  Persian  rugs,  the  Seurat,  and  the  paperweights  that  Harry  has  collected  on  his  travels.  Carola  and  Madame  Spad  come  every  day,  to  dust  and  clean  and  take  in  gro-  ceries,  The  Villa  Teresa,  like  the  other  villas,  is  its  own  small  island.  &quot;JJ  usy,  don't  you  think  it's  ridicu-  lous?&quot;  Mrs.  Vansittart  said  a  month  or  so  ago.  &quot;Don't  you,  Joe-  John?&quot;  Mrs.  Cecil  inclined  her  head.  Joe-  " b"John  said,  &quot;I  think  that  sign  they've  put  up  is  temporary.&quot;  &quot;If  they  spell  it  incorrectly  now,  they'll  do  it  again.&quot;  T  wo  tables  of  bridge  were  going-  Mrs.  Cecil  and  Signor  Borromeo  with  Joe-John  and  Mrs.  Vansittart  at  one,  the  Blochs,  Signora  Borromeo,  and  Mr.  Cecil  at  the  other.  In  the  lull  halfway  through  the  evening,  during  which  Harry  served  tea  and  little  p\xc3\xa9tisseries  that  he  made  himself,  the  conversation  had  turned  to  the  honor-  ing  of  Somerset  Maugham:  an  avenue  was  to  be  named  after  him;  near  the  Villa  Mauresque  asign  had  gone  up,  on  which,  unfortunately,  his  surname  had  been  incorrectly  spelled.  &quot;Then  you  must  tell  them,  my  dear,&quot;  urged  Joe-John,  who  liked  to  make  mischief  when  he  could.  &quot;You  mustgo  along  and  vigorously  pro-  test.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  have.  I've  talked  to  the  most  awful  little  prat.&quot;  &quot;Did  he  understand?&quot;  &quot;The  stupid  creature  argued.  Har-  ry,  that's  a  polished  surface  you've  put  your  teapot  on.&quot;  Harry  snatched  up  the  offending  teapot  at  once  and  looked  apologetic,  his  eyes  magnified  behind  his  horn-  rimmed  spectacles.  Harry  isn't  tall  but  has  a  certain  bulkiness,  especially  around  the  waist.  His  hands  and  feet  are  tiny,  his  mouse-colored  hair  nei-  ther  graying  nor  receding.  He  has  a  ready  smile,  is  nervous  perhaps,  so  people  think,  and  not  a  great  talker.  Everyone  who  comes  to  the  villa  likes  him,  and  sympathizes  because  his  wife  humiliates  him  so.  To  strangers  he  seems  like  a  servant  about  the  place,  grubbily  on  his  knees  in  the  garden,  emerging  from  the  kitchen  regions  with  flour  on  his  face.  Insult  is  con-  stantly  added  to  injury,  strangers  no-  tice,  but  the  regular  tennis  companions  and  bridge  players  have  long  since  ac-  cepted  that  it  goes  rather  further,  that  Harry  is  the  creature  of  his  wife.  A  saint,  someone  once  said-a  Swedish  lady  who  lived  in  the  Villa  Glorietta  until  her  death.  Mrs.  Cecil  and  Mrs.  Bloch  have  often  said  so  since.  &quot;Oh,  Harry,  look,  it  kes  marked  it.&quot;  How  could  she  tell,  Mrs.  Cecil  thought.  How  could  it  be  even  re-  motely  possible  to  see  halfway  across  the  huge  salon,  to  ascertain  through  the  duskiness  beyond  the  pools  of  light  demanded  by  the  bridge  tables  that  the  teapot  had  marked  thetop  of  an  escri-  toire?  Mrs.  Cecil  was  sitting  closer  to the  escritoire  than  Mrs.  Vansittart  and  couldn't  see  a  thing.  &quot;I  think  it's  all  right,&quot;  Harry  qui-  etly  said.  &quot;Well,  thank  God  for  that,  old  thing.&quot;  &quot;Delicious,  Harry,&quot;  Mrs.  Cecil  murmured  quickly,  commenting  upon  the  patisseries.  &quot;Bravo!  Bravo!&quot;  added  Signor  Bor-  romeo,  in  whom  a  generous  nature  and  obesity  are  matched.  He  sampled  a  second  cherry  tart,  saying  heshould  not.  &quot;We  were  talking,  Harry,&quot;  Mrs.  Vansittart  said,  &quot;of  the  Avenue  Som-  erset  Maugham.&quot;  &quot;Ah,  yes.&quot;  He  pressed  the  silver  trayof  p\xc3\xa9tisseries  on  Signora  Bor-  romeo  and  the  Blochs,  a  wiry  couple  from  [REDACTED]  Africa.  &quot;Al  limone?&quot;  Signora  Borromeo  questioned,  an  index  finger  poised.  Si-  gnora  Borromeo,  though  not  as  stout  as  her  husband,  is  generously  covered.  She  wears  bright  dresses  that  Mrs.  Vansittart  regards  with  despair,  and  she  has  a  way  of  becoming  excited.  Yes,  that  one  was  lemon,  Harry  said.  &quot;I  mean,&quot;Mrs.  Vansittart  went  on,  &quot;it  wouldn't  be  the  nicest  thing  in  the  world  if  someone  decided  to  call  an  avenue  after  Harry  and  then  got  his  name  wrong.&quot;  &quot;If  somebody-&quot;  Mr.  Cecil  began,  abruptly  ceasing  when  his  wife  shook  her  head  and  frowned  at  him.  &quot;No,  no  one's  going  to,&quot;  Mrs.  Van-  sittart  continued  in  a  dogged  way,  which  is  a  characteristic  of  hers  when  her  husband  features  in  a  conversation.  &quot;No,  no  one's  going  to,  but  naturally  it  could  happen.  Harry  being  a  creative  person  too.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  of  course,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Cecil  and  Mrs.  Bloch  swiftly  and  simultane-  ously.  &quot;It's  not  outside  the  bounds  of  pos-  sibility,&quot;  added  Mrs.  Vansittart,  &quot;that  Harry  should  become  well  known.  His  cycle  is  really  most  remarkable.&quot;  &quot;Indeed,&quot;  said  Joe-John.  No  one  except  Mrs.  Vansittart  had  been  permitted  to  hear  the  cycle.  It  was  through  her,  not  its  author,  that  the  people  of  the  villas  knew  what  they  did:  that,  forinstance,  the  current  composition  concerned  a  Red  Indian  called  Foontimo.  &quot;No  reason  whatsoever,&quot;  said  Joe-  John,  &quot;to  suppose  that  there  mightn't  be  an  Avenue  Harry  Vansittart.&quot;  He  smiled  encouragingly  at  Harry,  as  if  urging  him  not  tolose  heart,  or  at " b"least  urging  something.  Joe-John  wears  a  bangle  with  his  name  on  it,  and  a  toupee  that  most  remarkably  matches  the  remainder  of  his  cleverly  dyed  hair.  Sharply  glancing  at  his  lip  salve,  Mrs.  Vansittart  said,  &quot;Don't  be  snide,  Joe-John.&quot;  'Someone's  bought  La  Souco,&quot;  Mrs.  Cecil  quickly  intervened.  &quot;Swiss,  I  hear.&quot;  Harry  gathered  up  the  teacups,  the  bridge  recommenced.  While  the  cards  at  his  table  were  being  dealt,  Joe-John  placed  a  hand  lightly  on  the  back  of  one  of  Mrs.  Vansittart's.  He  had  not  meant  to  be  snide,  he  protested;  he  was  extremely  sorry  if  he  had  sounded  so.  The  apology  was  a  formality,  its  effect  that  which  Joe-John  wished  for:  to  make  a  little  more  of  the  incident.  &quot;I  wouldn't  hurt  poor  Harry  for  the  world,&quot;  he  breathlessly  whispered  as  he  reached  out  for  his  cards.  It  was  then,  as  each  hand  of  cards  was  being  arranged  and  Harry  picked  up  his  tray,  that  a  bell  sounded  in  the  Villa  Teresa.  It  was  not  the  telephone;  the  ringing  was  caused  by  the  agitat-  ing  ofa  brass  bellpull,  in  the  shape  of  a  fish,  by  the  gate  of  the  villa.  &quot;Good  Lord!&quot;  said  Mrs.  Vansittart,  for  unexpected  visitors  are  not  at  all  the  thing  at  any  of  the  villas.  &quot;I  would  not  answer,&quot;  advised  Si-  gnor  Borromeo.  &quot;Un  briccone!&quot;  The  others  laughed,  as  they  always  do  when  Signor  Borromeo  exagger-  ates.  But  when  the  bell  sounded  again,  after  only  a  pause  of  seconds,  Signora  Borromeo  became  excited.  &quot;Un  bric-  cone!&quot;  she  cried.  &quot;In  nome  di  Dio!  Un  briccone!&quot;  Harry  stood  with  his  laden  tray.  His  back  was  to  the  cardplayers.  He  did  not  move  when  the  bell  rang  a  third  time,  even  though  there  was  no  ser-  vant  to  answer  it.  Old  Pierre  comes  to  the  garden  of  the  Villa  Teresa  every  morning  and  leaves  at  midday.  Carola  and  Madame  Spad  have  gone  by  five.  &quot;We'll  go  with  you,  Harry,&quot;  the  wiry  Mr.  Bloch  suggested,  already  on  his  feet.  Mr.  Cecil  stood  up  also,  as  did  Joe-  John.  Signor  Borromeo  remained  where  he  was.  Harry  placed  the  tray  on  a  table  with  a  painted  surface-beneath  glass  -of  a  hunting  scene  at  the  time  of  Louis  XIV.  Nervously,  he  shifted  his  spectacles  on  his  nose.  &quot;Yes,  perhaps,&quot;  he  said,  accepting  the  offer  of  compan-  ionship  on  his  way  through  the  garden  to  the  gate.  Signora  Borromeo  fussily  fanned  her  face  with  her  splayed  cards.  It  was  Joe-John  who  afterward  told  of  what  happened  next.  Mr.  Bloch  took  charge.  He  said  they  should  not  talk  in  the  garden,  justin  case  Signor  Borromeo  was  right  when  he  sug-  gested  that  whoever  sought  entry  was  there  with  nefarious  purpose.  He'd  had  experience  of  intruders  in  [REDACTED]  Af-  rica.  Each  one  caught  was  one  less  hazard  to  the  whole  community;  the  last  thing  they  wanted  was  for  a  crimi-  nal  to  be  frightened  away  to  bide  his  time  for  another  attempt.  So  as  the  bell  rang  again  in  the  villa,  the  four  marched  stealthily,  a  hand  occasion-  ally  raised  to  smack  away  a  mosquito.  The  man  who  stood  at  the  gate  was     swarthy  and  very  small.  In  the  light  that  went  on  automatically  when  the  gate  was  opened,  he  looked  from  one  face  to  the  next,  uncertain  which  to  address.  His  glance  hovered  longer  on  Harry's  than  on  the  others',  Joe-  John  reported  afterward,  and  Har-  ry  frowned,  as  if  trying  to  place  the  man.  Neither  of  them  appeared  to  be  in  the  least  alarmed.  &quot;It  is  arranged,&quot;  the  man  said  even-  tually.  &quot;I  search  for  Madame.&quot;  &quot;Madame  Spad  is  not  here,&quot;  Harry  replied.  &quot;Not  Madame  Spad.  The  madame  of  the  villa.&quot;  &quot;Look  here,  my  old  chap,&quot;  Mr.  Cecil  put  in,  &quot;I  doubt  that  Madame  Vansittart  is  expecting  you.&quot;  Mr.  Cecil  is  not  one  to  make  concessions  when  the  nature  of  an  occasion  bewil-  ders  him,  but  it  was  Joe-John's  opin-  ion  that  the  swarthy  visitor  did  not  look  like  anyone's  old  chap.  He  thought  of  saying  so,  sotto  voce,  to  Mr.  Bloch,  but  changed  his  mind.  &quot;Better,&quot;  he  advised  the  man  in-  stead,  &quot;totelephone  in  the  morning.&quot;  &quot;My  wife  is  playing  bridge  to-  night,&quot;  Harry  explained.  &quot;It's  no  time  to  come  calling.&quot;  &quot;It  is  arranged,&quot;  the  man  repeated.  " b"In  a  troop,  as  though  conveying  a  prisoner,  they  made  their  way  back  through  the  garden.  The  man,  al-  though  questioned  further  by  Mr.  Bloch,  only  shrugged  his  shoulders.  No  one  spoke  after  that,  but  similar  thoughts  gathered  in  each  man's  mind.  It  was  known  that  old  Pierre  would  shortly  be  beyond  it:  after  tennis  one  evening  Mrs.  Vansittart  had  relayed  that  information  to  her  friends,  inquir-  ing  if  any  of  them  knew  of  a  younger  gardener.  What  would  seem  to  have  happened  was  that  this  present  indi-  vidual  had  telephoned  the  villa  and  been  told  by  Mrs.  Vansittart  to  report  for  an  interview,  and  now  arrived  at  ten  o'clock  in  the  evening  instead  of  the  morning.  When  they  reached  the  villa,  Mr.  Cecil  began  to  voice  these  conclusions,  but  the  man  did  not  ap-  pear  to  understand  him.  He  was  placed  in  the  hall,  Joe-John  and  Mr.  Bloch  guarding  him  justto  be  &amp;  L  on  the  safe  side.  The  others  reentered  the  salon,  and  almost  immediately  Mrs.  Vansittart  emerged.  As  she  did  so,  Joe-John  took  advantage  of  the  continuing  interruption  in  order  to  go  to  the  lavatory.  Mr.  Bloch  returned  to  the  salon,  where  Harry  picked  up  his  tray  of  tea  things  and  proceeded  with  it  to  the  kitchen.  &quot;I  told  you  not  to  come  here,&quot;  Mrs.  Vansittart  furiously  whispered.  &quot;I  had  no  idea  it  could  possibly  be  you.&quot;  &quot;I  tell  a  little  lie,  Madame.  I  say  to  the  men  there  is  arrangement.&quot;  &quot;My  [REDACTED];  &quot;This  morning  I  wait,  Madame,  and  you  do  not  appear.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Will  you  kindly  keep  your  voice  down.&quot;  &quot;We  go  in  your  kitchen?&quot;  &quot;My  husband  is  in  the  kitchen.  I  could  not  come  this  morning  because  I  did  not  wake  up.&quot;  &quot;I  am  by  the  lighthouse.  It  is  time  to  fix  the  tablecloths  but  I  stand  by  the  lighthouse.  How  I  know  you  ever  come?&quot;  &quot;'You  could  have  telephoned,  for  God's  sake,&quot;  whispered  Mrs.  Vansit-  tart,  more  furiously  than  before.  &quot;All  youhad  to  do  was  to  pick  up  the  damn  telephone.  I  was  waiting  in  all  day.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  I  pick  up  the  damn  telephone,  Madame.  You  husband  answer,  I  pick  it  down  again.  All  the  time  Monsieur  Jean  watch  me.  'It  is  no  good  this  time  to  fix  the  tablecloths!&quot;  heshout  when  I  come  running  from  the  lighthouse.  My  hand  make  sweat  on  the  table-  cloths.  I  am  no  good,  he  shout,  I  am  bad  waiter,  no  good  for  Grand-  Hotel-&quot;  &quot;I  cannot  talk  to  you  here.  I  will  meet  you  in  the  morning.&quot;  &quot;T  his  at  the  lighthouse,  Madame?&quot;  &quot;Of  course  at  the  lighthouse.&quot;  All  this  Joe-John  heard  through  the  slightly  open  lavatory  door.  It  was  not,  " b"he  recognized  at  once,  a  conversation  that  might  normally  occur  between  Mrs.  Vansittart  and  a  prospective  gar-  dener.  As  he  passed  through  the  hall  again,  his  hostess  was  saying  in  a  clenched  voice  that  of  course  she  would  wake  up.  She  would  be  at  the  lighthouse  at  half  past  six.  &quot;He's  a  waiter  from  the  Grand-  Hotel,&quot;  Joe-John  reported  softly  in  the  salon,  but  not  so  softly  that  the  information  failed  to  reach  anyone  present.  &quot;They're  carrying  on  in  the  mornings  at  the  lighthouse.&quot;  SIGNOR  Borromro  won  that  night,  and  so  did  Mrs.  Cecil.  At  a  quar-  ter  to  twelve  Harry  carried  in  a  tray  with  glasses  on  it,  and  another  with  decanters  of  cognac  and  whiskey  and  bottles  of  Cointreau,  cherry  brandy,  and  yellow  chartreuse.  He  drank  some  Cointreau  himself,  talking  to  Mrs.  Cecil  and  Mrs.  Bloch  about  azaleas.  &quot;Harry  dear,  you've  dribbled  that  stuff  all  over  your  jacket!&quot;  Mrs.  Van-  sittart  cried.  &quot;Oh,  Harry,  [REDACTED];  He  went  to  the  kitchen  to  wipe  at  the  stain  with  a  damp  cloth.  &quot;Hot  water,  Harry,&quot;  his  wife  called  after  him.  &quot;Make  sure  it's  really  hot.  And  just  a  trace  of  soap.&quot;  He'd  had  a  bad  day,  she  reported  when  he  was  out  of  earshot.  In  his  Red  Indian  song  Foontimo's  child-  wife-the  wife  who  was  not  real  but     who  appeared  to  Foontimo  in  dreams  -continued  to  be  elusive.  Harry  couldn't  get  her  name  right.  He  had  written  down  more  than  four  hundred  names,  but  not  one  of  them  registered  properly.  For  weeks  now  poor  Harry  had  been  depressed  over  that.  While  they  listened,  they  all  of  them  in  their  different  ways  disliked  Mrs.  Vansittart  more  than  ever  they  had  before.  Even  Joe-John,  who  had  so  enjoyed  eavesdropping  at  the  lava-  tory  door,  considered  it  extravagantly  awful  that  Mrs.  Vansittart's  seedy  love  life  should  have  been  displayed  in  front  of  everyone  while  Harry  washed  up  the  dishes.  Mrs.  Bloch  several  times  tightened  her  lips  during  Mrs.  Van-  sittart's  speech  about  the  difficulties  Harry  was  having  with  his  creation  of  an  Indian  child-wife;  her  husband  frowned  and  looked  peppery.  It  was  really  too  much,  Mrs.  Cecil  said  to  herself,  and  resolved  that  on  the  way  home  she'd  suggest  dropping  the  Van-  sittarts.  There  were  all  kinds  of  peo-  ple  in  this  world,  Signor  Borromeo  said  to  himself,  but  found  that  his  re-  flection  caused  him  to  like  Mrs.  Vansit-  tart  no  more.  A  cornuto  was  one  thing,  but  a  man  humiliated  in  pubblico  was  an  unforgivable  shame.  Harry  was  buono,  Signora  Borromeo  said  to  herself;  Harry  was  like  a  baembino  sometimes,  Mr.  Cecil  did  not  say  anything  to  himself,  being  confused. At  midnight  the  gathering  broke  up.  The  visitors  remarked  that  the  evening  had  been  delightful.  They  smiled  and  thanked  Mrs.  Vansittart.  &quot;She  has  destroyed  that  man,&quot;  Mrs.  Cecil  said  with  feeling  as  she  and  her  husband  entered  their  villa,  the  Villa  Japhico.  Signora  Borromeo  wept  in  the  Villa  Good-Fun,  and  her  husband,  sus-  taining  himself  with  a  late-night  sandwich  and  a  glass  of  beer,  sadly  shook  his  head.  She  has  destroyed  that  man,&quot;  Joe-  John  said  to  his  friend  in  El  Dorado,  using  the  words  precisely  a  minute  after  Mrs.  Cecil  had  used  them  in  the  Villa  Japhico.  In  the  Villa  Hadrian  the  Blochs  undressed  in  silence.  MRS.  VanstTrtTaART  lighted  a  ciga-  rette.  She  sat  down  at  her  dress-  ing  table  and  removed  her  makeup,  occasionally  pausing  to  draw  on  her  cigarette.  Her  mind  contained  few  thoughts.  Her  mind  was  tired,  afflicted  with  the  same  fatigue  that  deadened,  just  a  little,  the  eyes  that  people  are  rude  about.  ARRY  sat  at  the  piano  in  the  snug  little  room  he  called  his  den.  It  was  full  of  things  he  liked-orna-  ments  and  pictures  he'd  picked  up  in  Europe,  bric-i-brac  that  was  priceless  or  had  a  sentimental  value  only.  The  main  lightsof  the  room  were  not  switched  on;  an  ornate  lamp  lighted  his  pi-  ano  and  the  sheets  of  music  paper  on  the  small  table  beside  him.  He  wore  a  cot-  ton  dressing  gown  that  was  mainly  orange,  a  Javanese  pattern.  The  child-wife  who  visited  the  dreams  of  Foontimo  said  her  name  was  Soaring  Cloud.  She  prepared  a  heaven  for  Foontimo.  She  would  nev-  er  leave  him,  nor  would  she  ever  grow  old.  Harry  smiled  over  that,  his  even  white  teeth  moist  with  excitement.  He  had  known  she  could  not  elude  him  forever.  THE  following  morn-  ing  Joe-John  watched  from  the  rocks  near  the  lighthouse.  He  carried  with  him  a  small  pair  of  " b"binoculars,  necessary  be-  cause  the  lie  of  the  land  would  prevent  him  from  getting  close  enough  to  observe  his  quarry  prof-  itably.  He  had  to  wait  for  some  minutes  be-  fore  Mrs.  Vansittart  appeared.  She  looked  around  her  before  de-  scending  a  path  that  led  to  a  gap  among  the  rocks  from  which,  later  in  the  day,  people  bathed.  She  sat  down  and  lighted  a  cigarette.  A  moment  later  the  swarthy  waiter  from  the  Grand-Hotel  hurried  to  where  she  was.  Joe-John  moved  cau-  tiously.  He  was  slightly  above  the  pair  but  well  obscured  from  their  view.  Unfortunately  it  would  beimpossible  to  overhear  a  word  they  said.  Wedging  himself  uncomfortably,  he  raised  his  binoculars  and  ad-  justed  them.  A  conversation,  ap-  parently  heated,  took  place.  There  were  many  gestures  on  the  part  of  the  swarthy  man,  and  at  one  point  he  began  to  go  away  but  was  recalled  by  Mrs.  Vansittart.  She  of-  fered  him  a  cigarette,  which  he  ac-  cepted.  Then  Mrs.  Vansittart  took  a  wallet  from  a  pocket  of  her  trousers  and  counted  alarge  number  of  notes  onto  the  palm  of  her  companion.  &quot;My  God,&quot;  said  Joe-John  aloud.  &quot;She  pays  for  it!&quot;  The  couple  parted,  the  waiter  hur-  rying  back  toward  the  Grand-Hotel.  Mrs.  Vansittart  sat  for  a  moment  longer  where  he  had  left  her  and  then  clambered  slowly  back  to  the  coastal  path.  She  disappeared  from  Joe-John's  view.  RIVATELY,  Mrs.  Vansittart  keeps  an  account  of  her  life.  While  Harry  composes  his  songs,  she  fills  a  number  of  hard-backed  notebooks  with  the  facts  she  does  not  wish  to  divulge  to  anyone  now  but  which  one  day,  after  herdeath  and  after  Harry's,  she  would  like  to  be  known.  Of  this  par-  ticular  day  she  wrote:  I  paused  now  and  again  to  watch  the  early-morning  fishermen.  I  had  paid  ten  thousand  francs.  At  the  end  of   the  season  the  man  might  go  and  not  return,  as  he  had  promised.  But  I  could  not  be  sure.  The  morning  was  beautiful,  not  yet  even  faintly  hot,  the  sky  a  perfect  blue.  The  houses  of  Beaulieu  seemed  gra-  cious  across  the  glittering  sea,  yet  the  houses  of  Beaulieu  are  as  ordinary  as  houses  anywhere.  A  jogger  glanced  at  me  as  I  stood  aside  to  let  him  pass,  perspiration  on  his  nose  and  chin.  He  did  not  speak  or  smile.  I  sometimes  hate  it  on  Cap  Ferrat.  On  the  coastal  path  that  morning  I  thought  about  Harry  and  myself  when  we  were  both  eleven;  I  was  in  love  with  him  even  then.  In4e65746865726c616e6473  Falls  he'd  brought  me  to  his  mother's  bed-  room  to  show  me  the  rings  she  crowded  onto  her  plump  fingers,  her  heavily  stoppered  scent  bottles,  her  garish  silk  stockings.  But  I  wasn't  in-  terestedin  his  mother's  things.  Harry  told  me  to  take  my  clothes  off,  which  I  shyly  did,  wanting  to  because  he'd  asked  me  and  yet  keeping  my  head  averted.  Everyone  knew  that  Harry  loathed  his  mother,  but  no  one  thought  about  it  or  blamed  him  partic-  ularly,  she  being  huge  and  pink  and  doting  on  heronly  child  in  a  shaming  way.  &quot;[REDACTED];  he  remarked,  looking  at  my  scrawny  nakedness  among  his  mother's  frills.  &quot;God,  Jesus!&quot;  I  had  wires  on  my  teeth,  and  freckles  which  I  still  have.  I  didn't  have  breasts  of  any  size.  I  took  off  Harry's  red  windcheater,  and  after  that  the  rest  of  his  clothes  and  his  shoes.  We  lay  side  by  side  between  his  mother's  scented  sheets  while  two  floors  down  she  talked  to  Mrs.  Gilliland.  &quot;Now,  that's  just  a  damned  lie!&quot;  she  afterward  shrieked  at  Rose  when  Rose  said  what  she'd  seen.  I'll  never  forget  poor  Rose's  pretty  black  face  in  the  bedroom  doorway,  her  eyes  as  round  as  teacups,  bulging  from  her  head.  Harry's  mother  got  rid  of  her  because  of  it,  but  the  story  ran  all  over  [REDACTED]  Falls  and  someone  told  my  own  mother,  who  sat  down  and  cried.  My  father  bawled  at  me,  his  fury  a  single  crim-  son  explosion  of  lips  and  tongue,  his  dotted  necktie  gulping  up  and  down.  It  wasn't  Harry's  fault,  I  said,  1d  tempted  Harry  because  I  loved  him.  Besides,  I  added,  nothing  had  hap-  pened.  &quot;At  eleven  years  of  age?&quot;  my  father  yelled.  &quot;It's  not  the  point,  for  God's  sake,  that  nothing  happened!&quot;  On  the  coastal  path  that  morning  I  " b"told  myself  it  wasn't  fair  to  remember  my  father  in  the  moment  of  his  great-  est  rage.  He'd  been  a  gentle  man,  at  his  gentlest  when  operating  his  high-  speed  dentist's  drill,  white-jacketed  and  happy.  Even  so,  he  never  forgave  me.  We  ran  away  from  [REDACTED]  Falls  when  we  were  twenty-two.  Harry  had  already  inherited  the  paper  mill  but  it  was  run  by  a  manager,  by  whom  it  has  been  run  ever  since.  We  drove  about  for  a  year,  from  town  to  town,  motel  to  motel.  We  occupied  different  rooms  because  Harry  had  begun  to  compose  his  cycle  and  liked  to  be  alone  with  it  at  night.  I  loved  him  more  than  I  could  ever  tell  him,  but  never  again,  for  Harry,  did  I  take  my  clothes  off.  Harry  has  never  kissed  me,  though  I,  in  passing,  cannot  even  now  resist  bending  down  to  touch  the  side  of  his  face  with  my  lips.  A  mother's  kiss,  I  daresay  you  would  call  it,  and  yet  when  I  think  of  Harry  and  me  I  think  as  well  of  H\xc3\xa9loise  and  Ab\xc3\xa9lard,  Bea-  trice  and  Dante,  and  all  the  others.  Absurd,  of  course.  I  left  the  coastal  path  and  went  down  to  the  rocks  again,  gazing  into  the  depths  of  the  clear  blue  water.  &quot;You're  never  cross  enough,&quot;  Harry  said  with  childish  petulance  in  the  City  Hotel,  [REDACTED],  when  we  were  still  twenty-two.  I  had  come  into  my  room  tofind  the  girl  lying  on  my  bed,  as  I  had  lain  on  his  mother's  with  him.  In  my  presence  he  paid  her  forty  dol-  lars,  but  I  knew  he  had  not  laid  a  finger  on  her,  any  more  than  he  had  on  me  when  I  was  her  age.  We  went  to  [REDACTED]  because  Harry  was  frightened  when  a  police  patrol  stopped  our  car  one  day  and  asked  us  if  we'd  ever  been  in  [REDACTED].  I  denied  it  and  they  let  us  go,  but  that  was  why  Harry  thought  of  [REDACTED],  which  he  took  to  greatly  as  soon  as  we  arrived.  It  became  one  of  the  games  in  our  marriage  to  use  only  English  phrases  and  to  speak  in  the  English  way:  Harry  enjoyed  that  enormously,  almost  as  much  as  working  on  his  cycle.  And  loving  him  so,  I  naturally  did  my  best  to  please  him.  Any  distraction  a  harm-  less  little  game  could  provide,  any  compensation:  that  was  how  I  saw  my  duty,  if  in  the  circumstances  that  is  not  too  absurd  a  word.  Anyway,  the  games  and  the  distractions  worked,  some-  times  for  years  on  end.  A  great  deal  of  time  went  by,for  instance,  between  the  incident  in  [REDACTED]  and  the  first  of  the  two  in  [REDACTED].  &quot;It's  all  right,&quot;  the  poor  child  cried  out  in  [REDACTED]  when  I  entered  my  room.  &quot;Please  don't  tell,  Mrs.  Vansittart.&quot;  Harry  paid  her  the  money  he  had  promised  her,  and  when  she  had  gone  I  broke  down  and  wept.  I  didn't  even  want  to  look  at  Harry,  I  didn't  want  to  hear  him  speak.  In  an  hour  or  so  he  brought  me  up  a  cup  of  tea.  It  was,  heavenknows,  simple  enough  on  the  surface  of  things:  I  could  not  leave  Harry  because  I  loved  him  too  much.  I  loved  his  chubby  white  hands  and  tranquil  smile  and  the  weakness  in  his  eyes  when  hetook  his  spectacles  off.  If  I'd  left  him  he  would  have  ended  up  in  prison,  because  Harry  needs  to  be  loved.  And  then,  besides,  there  has  been  so  much  hap-  piness,  at  least  for  me:  our  travel-  ling  together,  the  pictures  and  the  furni-  ture  we've  so  fondly  collected,  and  of  course  the  Villa  Teresa,  It's  the  strangest  thing  in  the  world,  all  that.  A  fisherman  brought  his  boat  near  to  the  rocks  where  I  was  sitting.  I  had  lighted  a  cigarette  and  put  my  sun-  glasses  on  because  the  glare  of  daytime  was  beginning.  I  watched  the  fisher-  man  unloading  his  modest  catch,  his  brown  fingers  expertly  arranging  nets  and  hooks.  How  different,  I  thought,  marriage  would  have  beenwith  that  stranger.  And  yet  could  I,  with  any-  one  else,  have  experienced  such  feel-  ings  of  passion  as  I  have  known?  &quot;I'm  sorry,&quot;  Harry  began  to  say,  a  catch  phrase  almost,  in  the  nineteen-  fifties.  He's  always  sorry  when  he comes  in  from  the  flower  beds  with  clay  on  his  shoes,  or  puts  the  teapot  on  a  polished  surface,  or  breaks  the  promises  hemakes.  Ina  way  that's  hard  to  communicate,  Harry  likes  be-  ing  sorry.  &quot;Bor;our,  Madame,&quot;  the  fisherman  said,  going  by  with  his  baskets  of  sole  or  whatever  fish  it  was.  &quot;Bonjour,&quot;  I  replied,  smiling  at  him.  Harry  would  be  still  in  bed,  having  worked  on  his  cycle  until  three  or  four  in  the  morning.  Old  Pierre  and  Carola  and  Madame  Spad  would  not  arrive  for  another  hour,  and  in  any  case  I  did  not  have  to  be  there  when  they  did.  But  at  the  back  of  my  mind  there's  always  the  terror  that  when  I  return  to  theVilla  Teresa,  Harry  will  be  dead.  I  clambered  back  to  the  coastal  path  and  continued  on  my  way.  In  En-  gland,  after  the  first  occasion,  there  was  the  convent  girl  in  her  red  gym  slip,  who  wasn't  docile  like  the  other  ones  but  shouted  at  me  that  she  loved  Harry  more  than  I  did.  Sometimes  she  was  there  when  I  returned  from  shop-  ping  in  the  afternoons,  sometimes  there  was  only  the  rumpling  of  my  bed  to  remind  me  of  her  visit.  We  had  to  leave  [REDACTED]  because  ofthe  scenes  she  made,  and  after  the  awful  melan-  choly  that  had  seized  him  Harry  promised  that  none  of  it  would  ever  happen  again.  My  presence  at  the  lighthouse  that  morning  had  to  do  with  a  German  girl  in  [REDACTED]  eleven  years  ago.  The  waiter  who  is  at  the  Grand-Hotel  for  the  season  was  at  the  Bon  Accueil  in  Chiateau-d'Oex.  The  German  girl  was  given  wine  at  dinnertime  and  suddenly  burst  into  tears,  hysterically  fling-  ingher  accusations  about.  I  simply  laughed.  I  said  it  was  ridiculous.  We  weregone  by  breakfast  time  and  Harry  has  kept  his  promise  since,  frightened  for  eleven  years.  Dear,  gen-  " b"tle  Harry,  who  never  laid  a  finger  on  any  of  those  girls,  who  never  would.  ETER  that  morning  Joe-John's  friend  shopped  in  Saint-Jean,  with  Joe-John's  terrier  on  a  lead.  When  he  had  finished,  he  sat  down  at  the  caf\xc3\xa9  by  the  bus  stop  to  have  jus  d'abricot.  He  watched  the  tourists  and  the  young  people  from  the  yachts.  The  terrier,  elderly  now,  crept  beneath  his  chair  in  search  of  shade.  &quot;Ah,  Mrs.  Bloch!&quot;  Joe-John's  friend  called  out  after  a  little  while,  for  the  lean  [REDACTED]  African  lady  was  shopping  also.  He  persuaded  her  to  join  him-rather  against  her  will,  since  Mrs.  Bloch  does  not  at  all  care  for  Joe-John's  friend.  He  then  related  what  Joe-John  had  earlier  related  to  him:  that  Mrs.  Vansittart  now  paid  money  for  the  intimate  services  she  received  from  men.  He  described  in  detail,  with  some  natural  exaggera-  tion,  the  transaction  by  the  lighthouse.  Repelled  by  the  account,  Mrs.  Bloch  tightened  her  lips.  On  the  way  back  to  the  Villa  Ha-  drian  she  called  in  at  the  Villa  Japhico  with  two  mousetraps,  which  she  had  promised  the  night  before  to  purchase  for  Mrs.  Cecil.  The  Cecils,  with  neither  gardener  nor  cleaning  women,  do  not  easily  find  the  time  for  daily  shopping,  and  the  chandler's  store  in  Saint-Jean  will  not  deliver  mouse-  traps.  Mrs.  Bloch  waited  to  be  thanked  and  then  began.  &quot;To  think  that  man  came  last  night  for  money!  With  Harry  there  and  ev-  eryone  else!&quot;  Mrs.  Cecil  shook  her  head  in  hor-  ror.  Joe-John  was  a  troublemaker  and  so  was  his  rather  unpleasant  friend,  yet  neither  would  surely  tell  an  outright  lie.  It  was  appalling  to  think  of  Mrs.  Vansittart  conducting  such  business  with  a  waiter.  The  satisfying  of  lust  in  a  woman  was  most  unpleasant.  &quot;I  re-  ally  can't  think  why  he  doesn't  leave  her,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Oh,  he  never  would.  That  simply  isn't  Harry's  style.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  Harry's  loyal.&quot;  That  morning  the  Cecils  had  dis-  cussed  the  dropping  of  the  Vansittarts,  but  had  in  the  end  agreed  that  the  result  of  such  a  course  of  action  would  be  that  Harry  would  suffer.  So  they  had  decided  against  it,  a  decision  which  Mrs.  Cecil  now  passed  on  to  her  friend.  Mrs.  Bloch  gloomily  agreed.  MRS.  VansrTTART  plays  an  ace  and  wins  the  trick.It  is  autumn,  the  season  is  over,  the  swarthy  waiter  has  gone.  Harry  enters  the  salon  with  his  tray  " b"of  tea  and  the  patisseries  he  has  made  that  morning.  He  is  so  quiet  in  the  shadows  of  the  room  that  Mrs.  Bloch  recalls  how  strangers  to  the  villa  have  occasionally  taken  him  for  a  servant.  Mrs.  Cecil  throws  a  smile  inhis  direc-  tion.  Mr.  Bloch  and  Mr.  Cecil  and  Si-  gnor  Borromeo,  all  of  whom  know  about  the  transaction  that  took  place  near  the  lighthouse,  prefer  not  to  think  about  it.  Joe-John  hopes  that  Mrs.  Vansittart  will  commit  some  fur-  ther  enormity  shortly,  so  that  the  gos-  sip  it  trails  may  while  away  the  winter.  It  would  be  awfully  dull,  he  often  remarks  to  his  friend,  if  Mrs.  Vansit-  tart  was  like  Mrs.  Bloch  and  Mrs.  Cecil  and  Signora  Borromeo.  &quot;Oh,  my  dear,  don't  pour  it  yet!&quot;  she  cries  across  the  room,  and  then  with  some  asperity,  &quot;We  really  aren't  quite  ready,  old  thing.&quot;  Harry  apologizes,  enjoying  the  wave  of  sympathy  her  protest  engenders.  He  waits  until  the  hand  is  played,  know-  ing  that  then  her  voice  will  again  command  him.  He  can  feel  the  stifled  irritation  in  the  room,  and  then  the  sympathy.  He  pours  the  tea  and  hands  the  cups  around.  She  lights  a  cigarette.  Once,  at  the  beginning  of  their  time  in  the  Villa  Teresa,  she  had  a  way  of  getting  up  and  helping  him  with  the  teacups,  but  then  she  sensed  thatthat  was  wrong.  She  senses  things  in  a  clumsy  kind  of  way.  She  is  not  clever.  &quot;Oh,  look,  you've  made  marzipan  ones  again!  You  know  no  one  likes  marzipan,  dear.&quot;  But  Mrs.  Cecil  and  Mrs.  Bloch  both  select  the  marzipan  ones,  and  Harry  is  apologetic.  He  is  not  aware  that  people  have  ever  said  that  his  wife  had  three  affairs  and  sundry  casual  conjunctions  when  they  lived  in  En-  gland;  nor  does  he  know  it  is  categori-  cally  stated  that  a  peasant  woman  once  spat  in  her  face.  It  would  not  upset  him  to  hear  all  this,  because  it  is  only  gossip  and  its  falsity  doesn't  matter.  It  is  a  long  time  now  since  she  sensed  his  modest  wish  and  in  answer  to  it  developed  the  rhythmic  swing  of  her  hips  and  the  look  in  her  eyes.  Uncon-  sciously,  of  course,  she  developed  them,  not  quite  in  the  way  she  allows  the  English  intonations  to  creep  into  her  voice.  When  he  looks  at  her  in  the  company  of  these  people,  it's  enjoyable  to  imagine  the  swarthy  waiter  un-  dressing  her  among  the  rocks,  even  Signor  Borromeo  trying  something  on  beneath  the  bridge  table.  Harry  smiles.  He  goes  around  with  the  teapot,  refilling  the  cups.  He  wishes  she  would  say  again  that  an  avenue  on  Cap  Ferrat  might  be  called  after  him.  It's  enjoyable,  the  feeling  in  the  room  then,  the  people  thinking  she  shouldn't  have  said  it.  It's  enjoyable  when  they  think  she  shouldn't  swing  her  hips  so,  and  when  they  come  to  conclusions  about  her  made-up  En-  glish  voice.  It's  en-  joyable  when  she  lis-  tens  to  his  saga  of  Soaring  Cloud  the  child-wife,  and  when  her  face  is  worried  because  yet  another  song  has  a  theme  of  self-inflicted  death.  Harry  enjoys  that  most  of  all.  rs.  Vansrrrart  loses,  for  her  at-  tention  briefly  wan-  dered,  as  it  sometimes  does  just  after  he  has  brought  the  tea  around.  She  tried  not  to  love  him  when  her  father  was  so  upset.  She  tried  to  forget  him,  but  he  was  always  there,  wordlessly  pleading  from  a  distance,  so  passionately  demanding  the  love  she  passionately  felt.  She'd  felt  it  long  before  the  day  she  took  her  clothes  off  for  him,  and  she  remembers  perfectly  how  it  was.  For  a  moment  at  the  bridge  table  the  thoughts  that  have  slipped  beneath  her  guard  make  her  so  light-headed  that  she  wants  to  jump  up  and  run  after  him  to  the  kitchen.  She  sees  her-  self,  gazing  at  him  from  the  doorway,  enticing  him  with  her  eyes,  as  first  of  all  she  did  in  [REDACTED]  Falls.  He  puts  his  arms  around  her  and  she  feels  on  hers  the  lips  she  never  has  felt.  &quot;Diamonds,&quot;  someone  says,  for  she  has  asked  what  trumps  are.  Her  vir-  ginal  longing  still  warms  her  as  the  daydream  dissipates.  From  its  frag-  ments  Harry  thanks  her  for  the  com-  panion  she  has  been,  and  her  love  is  calm  again  at  the  bridge  table. "