 b" SEVERAL  years  ago,  having  just  quit  a  job  ina  brokerage  house  which  I'd  held  since  graduating  from  business  school,  I  went  to  [REDACTED]  to  visit  afriend  who  had  a  summer  house  near  Thomaston.  My  first  days  there  it  rained,  and  everything  in  the  house  smelled  damp;  outside,  the  land-  scape  was  dark  and  sodden.  I  was  dis-  appointed,  depressed,  and  on  the  verge  of  leaving.  Then,  one  morning,  I  rose  and  saw  thin,  broken  clouds  moving  swiftly  overhead.  It  was  the  end  of  the  bad  weather.  The  sun  was  out  and  the  damp  was  lifting.  By  noon  the  sky  was  an  endless,  monotonous  blue.  In  the  late  afternoon,  my  friend  and  I  decided  to  go  for  a  walk  over  the  fields  that  covered  the  low  hills  to  the  west  of  his  house,  As  we  walked  through  a  clear-  ing  bounded  by  the  sea  on  one  side  and  a  jagged  lineof  pine  trees  on  the  other,  I  thought  of  my  father,  who  had  been  a  writer,  and  who,  when  I  was  still  a  youngster,  had  moved  the  family  from  New  York  City  to  live  in  [REDACTED].  He  was  inhis  late  thirties  andhad  written  only  two  novels;  neither  was  well  re-  ceived.  He  was  having  trouble  getting  started  on  a  third  andblamed  his  fail-  ure  on  the  distractions  of  city  life.  So  we  went  to  [REDACTED].  There  were  times,  especially  when  we  first  moved  there,  when  my  mother  and  I  were  en-  chanted  by  the  energy  of  my  father.  He  paraded  before  us  inhis  under-  wear,  reading  aloud  from  Rabelais,  in-  structing  us  in  boldness,  in  ardor,  in  pretense.  He  was  the  authority.  Peer-  ing  over  his  reading  glasses,  waving  an  index  finger  over  his  head,  he  preached  domination  of  uncertainty,  vagueness,  despair.  His  boxer  shorts  began  under  his  bulging  belly  and  ended  just  above  his  knees;  his  calves  were  massive  but  hairless,  and  his  an-  kles  were  as  thin  as  a  woman's.  His  parading  was  a  kind  of  dance  to  the  music  of  words.  My  mother  and  Isat  together  in  a  big  chair,  uplifted  and  amazed.  But  there  were  times  later  on  when  my  father's  steps  revealed  his  impa-  tience,  his  mounting  frustration.  He  had  abandoned  one  novel  and  wanted  to  begin  another.  He  blamed  the  quiet,  the  dullness  of  [REDACTED]  for  his  inability  to  do  so.  His  boredom  made  him  ner-  vous.  He  said  he  could  feel  within  himself  the  exaggeration  of  moments,  the  lengthening  of  hours.  He  was  per-  petually  on  the  threshold  of  beginning  something  but  could  not  get  beyond  the  initial  impulse  to  sit  and  write.  My mother  and  I  would  hear  him  pacing  in  his  room.  He  seemed  to  live  in  a  marginal  world  between  routine  and  transport,  between  laziness  and  desire.  Day  after  day,  he  confronted  the  newspaper,  the  coffee,  the  attempt  to  write,  the  walk,  the  sea,  the  dinner,  the  wish  to  return  to  New  York,  the  fear  of  doing  so.  He  bought  cases  of  over-the-hill  wine  on  sale.  He  would  drink  and  rave  on  about  greatness.  &quot;More  life,  more  life!&quot;  he  would  bel-  low.  My  mother  urged  him  to  get  a  teaching  job,  but  he  would  not.  He  said  he  hated  security,  and  claimed  that  immortality,  not  tenure,  was  a  writer's  business.  But  in  ten  years  of  living  in  [REDACTED]  he  did  not  finish  one  book.  And  eventually  my  mother  ran  off  to  live  with  the  local  doctor,  and  took  me  with  her.  My  friend  had  walked  on  ahead,  while  I  stared  into  the  summer  twi-  light.  Walking  in  a  place  so  close  to  where  we  had  lived  not  only  allowed  me  to  feel  the  poignancy  of  my  father's  failure  but  made  it  somehow  inescap-  able.  It  saddened  me  that  he  died  with  no  recognition  at  all.  I'm  not  sure  how  long  I  stood  in  that  field,  but  I  began  to  feel  a  terrible  stillness.  The  warm  air  seemed  weighted  with  the  perfume  of  summer.  Then  I  heard  a  fly.  It  circled  me  once,  and  then  hovered  be-  fore  me  at  eye  level,  staring  at  me.  Its  metallic-green  body  glinted  in  the  last  rays  of  sunlight.  Its  buzzing  increased  and  subsided  rhythmically.  The  sound  was  threatening,  yet  there  was  some-  thing  familiar  about  it,  something  that  went  beyond  mere  buzzing.  This  is  hard  to  account  for,  but  I  was  sud-  denly  convinced  that  my  father  had  returned.  He  had  come  back  as  a  fly.  He  buzzed  and  buzzed,  and  I  was  afraidthat  he'd  bite  if  he  landed  on  me.  Yet  I  couldnot  lift  my  hand  against  him.  I  fell  to  my  knees.  Then  he  resumed  his  noisy  circling,  broken  by  attacks  in  which  he  would  swerve  suddenly  at  my  face,  stop  a  few  inches  away,  then  continue  to  circle.  &quot;Dad!&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Go  ahead,  land  on  me.&quot;  His  buzzing  became  extremely  loud  and  suggested  frantic  disapproval.  I  re-  member  wishing  there  were  some  way  we  could  talk.  He  flew  away.  &quot;Dad,  don't  leave,&quot;  I  yelled.  &quot;Come  back.&quot;  Perhaps  I  had  been  wrong,  I  thought.  Perhaps  he  had  come  back  not  to  harm  me  but  to  beg  forgiveness-to  abase  himself  before  me  as  a  simple  fly.  &quot;Dad,  you're  innocent,  you  did  noth-  ing  wrong,&quot;  I  called.  Then  I  heard  the  buzzing  again.  He  was  back,  but  he  was  not  alone.  He  had  come  with  a  buzzing  swarm  of  friends.  I  got  up  and  began  to  run.  The  next  thing  I  knew,  I  was  on  my  back  and  my  friend  was  leaning  over  me,  staring.  NEVER  told  my  friend  what  had  happened.  I  all  but  putthe  episode  aside,  never  trusting  it  to  the  ears  of  anyone.  And  it  wasn't  until  about  a  year  later,  when  I  was  againbored  with  a  job,  that  I  thought  very  much  about  my  father.  Not  about  his  awful  transmogrification  the  summer  before  but  about  his  life  in  New  York,  where  he  returned  after  my  mother  left  him.  In  those  days,  I  would  go  down  to  New  York  and  stay  with  my  aunt  and  her  husband.In  the  afternoons  I  would  visit  my  father,  who  lived  in  a  studio  apartment  with  a  makeshift  kitchen  at  one  end  and  his  bed  at  the  other.  It  was  a  cramped,  book-crowded  place,  and  when  I  went  there  he  usually  sat  at  his  desk,  which  was  in  thecenter  of  the  room,  or  lay  on  his  back,  staring  at  the  ceiling.  Once  when  I  visited  him,  he  recalled  with  theatrical  em-  phasis  &quot;the  dawn  in  [REDACTED],  the  caw  of  crows  lifting  with  the  mist,  the  peeping  and  chirping  of  warblers,  goldfinches,  and  catbirds.&quot;  Then  he  looked  at  me  sadly  and  said,  &quot;Charlie,  tell  me,  why  am  I  here?  Why  did  I  come  back?&quot;  Another  time,  when  I  asked  him  how  his  work  was  going,  he  said  that  it  wasn't.  He  told  me  that  there  was  a  novel  he  wanted  to  begin  but  couldn't.  After  all,  he  explained,  what  sphere  was  his?  What  did  he  know  about  any  place  or  occupation?  Nothing.  His  specialty  was  blankness,  the  features  of  boredom,  the  haze  of  habit.  He  said  that  his  notes  were  of  intangible  states-the  feel  of  sinking  into  sleep,  of  drifting  into  daylight.  He  confessed  he  had  been  lazy  and  lacking  in  purpose,  that  he  had  been  an  emo-  tional  drifter,  that  his  grandiose  deter-  mination  to  create  a  lasting  attach-  ment  with  something-anything-  through  his  writing  was  fraudulent.  In  the  years  just  before  he  died,  my  father  became  a  ladies'  man.  His  age,  his  belly,  his  close-cropped  hair  in  a  " b" time  when  everyone  else's  was  long  made  him  an  unlikely  Lothario,  but  he  was  a  triumph,  surpassing,  at  times,  even  his  own  windy  expectations.  He  wooed  with  a  wistfulness  that  won  sympathy.  He  alluded  tohis  life  in  [REDACTED]  as  if  he  were  in  exile  from  Arcady.  He  spoke  of  himself  as  a  sim-  ple  man,  at  home  under  [REDACTED]'s  great  sky,  with  its  store  of  mists,  fogs,  and  clouds,  its  slanting  maritime  light.  He  described  walks  he  took  at  dusk  by  the  sea-its  dark  body  turning  and  turn-  ing  in  its  lace  of  seaweed  and  foam.  But  he  also  made  it  clear  that  life  on  the  &quot;stone  coast&quot;  was  not  always  easy,  that  his  sensitive  nature,  if  not  directly  imperilled,  was  under  siege.  He  talked  of  sitting  at  night  in  a  circle  of  soft  light,  reading  a  book,  while  outside  the  wind  hissed  through  the  trees  and  on  the  roof  and  against  the  window-  panes  the  loud  pattering  of  rain  began.  My  own  life  in  New  York  was  dominated  by  routines  that  enlivened  without  necessarily  giving  pleasure.  I  spent  hourseach  day  on  the  phone,  went  to  parties,  drank,  and  watched  television.  There  were  several  women  I  took  out,  but  I  was  not  in  love  with  any  of  them.  Sometimes  they  were  sec-  retaries  who  idolized  me  for  the  wrong  reasons.  Assuming  the  authority  I  af-  fected  at  the  office  was  genuine,  they  would  relinquish  themselves  to  my  charge.  Sometimes  they  were  success-  ful  colleagues.  I  liked  to  think  their  self-assurance  would  rub  off  on  me,  but  it  never  did.  They  were  drawn  to  my  vagueness,  my  uncertainty,  my  in-  ability  to  come  to  terms  with  my  life  as  it  was  unfolding.  None  of  these  rela-  tionships  lasted.  My  one  pleasure  was  horseback  riding.  I  did  it  in  the  Park  on  weekends  and  holidays,  and  I  rode  with  a  zeal  that  bordered  on  the  fa-  natic.  I  rode  from  every  misfortune  I  could  imagine-from  my  job,  from  the  women  I  knew,  from  the  sterility  of  my  small  apartment.  One  autumn  Saturday  I  was  riding  a  sleek  chestnut  gelding  with  large,  nervous  eyes  of  the  sort  one  sees  in  the  paintings  of  Rubens.  A  few  leaves  flut-  tered  from  the  trees.  The  sky  was  bright,  the  air  was  dry,  and  every-  where  there  was  a  remarkable  clarity.  My  horse  moved  cleanly,  responding  with  ease  to  my  commands.  For  an  instant  it  occurred  to  me  that  this  was  the  way  the  world  should  be,  and  that  my  unchallenged  dominance  over  my  mount  would  have  pleased  my  father.  Then,  suddenly,  as  if  to  protest  my  arrogance,  the  horse  stopped.  I  urged  him  forward,  but  he  was  stubborn.  I    began  to  rock  in  the  saddle.  Powerless  and  frustrated,  I  lost  my  composure.  I  called  him  an  idiot  and  kicked  my  heels  into  his  sides.  He  turned  his  head  slowly  to  the  left.  He  seemed  to  be  watching  something,  following  its  motion  with  eager  attention.  I  looked  up  to  see  what  it  was.  A  woman  was  walking  over  one  of  the  bridges  that  crossed  the  bridle  path.  She  was  tall  and  dark-haired  and  wore  a  light-pur-  ple  coat.  She  walked  with  an  easy  stride  that  suggested  the  possibility  of  physical  abandonment.  I  immediately  dismounted  and  stood  before  the  horse.  I  was  sure  he  was  my  father.  It  made  perfect  sense-the  horse  was  an  ideal  medium  for  him.  In  some  indefinable  way,  they  were  alike.  The  horse  gazed  longingly,  it  seemed  to  me,  after  the  disappearing  woman,  its  eyes  melting  into  tenderness,  then  despair.  &quot;Dad,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It's  great  tosee  you.&quot;  He  turned  his  head  away  and  watched  another  woman  cross  the  bridge.  Not  far  away  an  ambulance  or  police-car  siren  whined.  I  felt  a  chill.  &quot;Dad,  don't  worry.  I  won't  ride  you  again.  Everything  will  be  all  right.&quot;  He  looked  beyond  me,  at  the  woman.  &quot;Dad,&quot;  I  went  on,  getting  carried  away,  &quot;I'll  do  whatever  you  want.  I'll  get  you  out  of  the  stables  and  into  the  country.  I'll  buy  a  house  in  Connecti-  cut;  you  can  have  the  back  yard  all  to  yourself.&quot;  He  neighed  and  shook  out  his  mane.  I  put  an  arm  over  his  neck  in  a  casual  gesture  of  affection.  &quot;Dad,  tell  me  that  you'll  let  me  help  you,  care  for  you,  make  life  easy  for  you.&quot;  At  that  point,  my  father  reared  and  bolted.  I  stood  in  his  dusty  wake.  There  was  no  point  in  my  trying  to  change  his  mind.  Even  as  a  horse  he  was  headstrong.  DAYS  passed  in  which  I  did  noth-  ing  but  consider  the  peculiarity  of  my  father's  behavior.  I  was  afraid  to  go  out  for  fear  I  would  meet  him  again,  and  again  be  rebuffed.  I  brooded.  I  drank.  I  stared  out  the  win-  dow.  But  the  ordeal  of  loneliness  be-  came  tiresome.  I  tried  to  resume  my  social  life  and  to  throw  myself  into  my  work,  but  failed.  Inwardly  upset,  dis-  oriented,  sometimes  distracted,  I  found  even  the  most  routine  tasks  difficult.  I  lost  faith  in  my  ability  and  gave  into  feelings  of  ennui  and  impotence.  It  was  several  months  before  my  life  resumed  its  normal  flow.  The  incident  with  the  horse  slipped  from  memory,  and  I  was  happier  than  I  had  ever  been  before.  For  one  thing,  I  had  fallen  in  love.  Her  name  was  [REDACTED]  Schulz.  She  was  a  lawyer  and  lived  in  my  building.  I  had  been  noticing  her  for  months  in  the  elevator.  Her  light-blue  eyes  were  heavily  made  up  and  looked  almost  yellow.  Her  dark  eyebrows,  however,  preserved  for  them  an  intensity  that  would  otherwise  have  been  lost.  She  had  high  cheekbones  and  short  auburn  hair  swept  straight  back.  Her  skin-at  least  when  I  saw  her  in  the  elevator-  seemed  to  glow.  But  it  was  her  eyes,  on  these  occasions,  that  offered,  with  stunning  insistence,  the  promise  of  sexual  fulfillment.  The  brevity  of  our  encounters  meant  that  getting  to  know  her  was  a  long  ordeal  of  suppressed  " b"elation,  of  waiting,  of  gaining  cour-  age.  The  first  time  we  had  dinner  together,  I  could  barely  eat.  My  stomach  churned  with  excitement.  She  was  even  more  beautiful  in  the  res-  taurant  than  she  had  been  in  the  ele-  vator.  There  was  about  her  a  mix-  ture  of  serenity  and  severity  that  I  found  alluring,  an  unsophisticated  certainty  that  made  my  being  with  her  both  relaxing  and  compelling.  Before  long,  we  were  spending  all  our  free  time  together.  She  brought  out  the  best  in  me.  Our  evenings  together  were  filled  with  gaiety.  We  told  each  other  stories  of  our  past,  sometimes  with  breezy  offhandedness,  sometimes  with  ceremonious  solem-  nity.  But,  happy  as  we  were,  4974616c79  that  by  not  telling  her  about  my  father's  reappearances  I  was  lying  to  her.  I  wanted  to  tell  her,  and  I  felt  I  had  to,  but  there  never  seemed  to  be  an  appro-  priate  occasion.  And  I  wasn't  sure  how  she  would  respond.  Finally,  at  my  apartment  one  night,  the  time  seemed  right.  I  sat  on  the  floor;  [REDACTED]  sat  across  the  coffee  table  from  me,  on  the  couch.  That  night  there  was  about  her  a  vitality  that  was  delicate  and  precious,  and  that  seemed,  paradoxically,  the  issue  of  weariness.  She  glowed,  as  always-even  sparkled  -but  seemed  about  to  sigh,  to  suc-  cumb  to  an  inner  calling  that  was  re-  mote  and  private.  Her  radiance  struck  me  as  flickering  and  momentary,  and  suggested  that  it  was  born  of  a  certain  sadness  and  heaviness  of  spirit  I  found  hard  to  associate  with  her.  And  then  I  realized  I  was  not  looking  at  [REDACTED]  at  all  but  at  my  father.  &quot;Dad,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;you're  back!&quot;  &quot;Darling,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;what  isit?  What's  wrong?&quot;  I  could  tell  this  had  been  one  of  his  down  days.  He  had  given  in  to  his  gift  for  gloom.  It  was  clear  from  the  frown  he  wore  that  he  considered  his  life  a  waste.  I  got  on  my  knees  in  front  of  the  coffee  table.  &quot;Dad,  Dad,  you're  too  hard  on  yourself.&quot;  He  reached  for  my  hands.  &quot;What's  come  over  you?&quot;  he  said.  \xc2\xab&quot;Dad,  it's  you,  it's  you.&quot;  He  must  have  been  moved,  for  there  were  tears  in  his  eyes  and  he  seemed  unable  to  speak.  &quot;Dad,  relax.  There's  nothing  to  worry  about.&quot;  He  stood  up.  &quot;Charlie,  dear,  I'm  frightened,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;What  of?&quot;  Isaid.  &quot;Of  you,&quot;  he  answered.  My  father  afraidof  me?  I  was  as-  tonished.  My  father  stood  before  me  and  spoke  with  the  voice  of  a  terrified  woman.  It  was  too  much  to  bear.  I  closed  my  eyes  and  collapsed  onto  the  couch.  I  felt  grand.  I  felt  as  if  I  would  burst  into  fame.  There  was  a  sudden  thinness  of  air,  a  quiet  that  made  the  distance  audible.  For  a  moment  I  felt  as  though  I  encompassed  the  whole  world.  When  I  woke,  in  my  pajamas  and  under  a  blanket,  I  was  alone.  [REDACTED]  came  over  the  next  day  to  see  how  I  felt.  She  stood  in  the  heavy  stream  of  morning  light,  looking  more  lovely  than  ever.  I  told  her  I  hoped  she  was  not  upset  by  what  had  happened.  She  said  she  had  been  frightened  but  now  was  over  it.  She  knelt  beside  me  and  explained  that  it  made  her  realize  how  much  sheloved  me.  I  took  her  hands.  &quot;[REDACTED],&quot;  I  said,  &quot;let's  go  to  [REDACTED].  We'll  walk  by  the  sea.  We'll  trawl  for  mackerel  and  visit  small  islands.&quot;  She  stared  at  me.  My  sudden  energy  seemed  to  amuse  her.  &quot;In  the  morning,  we'll  listen  to  war-  blers,  goldfinches,  and  catbirds.  At  night,  we'll  build  a  fire.&quot;  &quot;What's  got  into  you&quot;&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Nothing.  Nothing  at  [REDACTED];  Isaid.  We  went  to  [REDACTED]  that  summer,  and  the  days  were  long  and  leisurely.  My  visions  of  the  future  were  calm  and  untroubled.  [REDACTED]  and  I  decided  to  get  married.  And  my  father's  visits  were  rare,  if  one  could  say  they  were  visits  at  all.  I'd  stand  in  the  bathroom,  shaving,  and  catch  the  flicker  of  some-  thing  out  of  the  corner  of  my  eye.  I'd  look  at  myself  and  feel  him  near  me,  his  breath  barely  beginning  to  cloud  the  mirror.  But  it  would  last  just  a  second.  "