 b"WHEN  you  strain  the  Stalin  calories  out  of  a  basic  stock,  do  you  still  have  a  strong,  wholesome  broth?  That  is  the  question  this  spaceput  not  long  ago,  pointing  out  that  Stalin  calories  have  no  real  food  value  and  often  result  in  bloated,  unsightly  reminiscences.  A  number  of  New  Kitchen  devotees  have  since  writ-  ten  to  explain  that  attenuated  Lenin  calories  are  less  harmful  but  have  no  staying  power.  The  consomm\xc3\xa9  tastes  diluted,  and  it  takes  a  skilled  cook  to  boil  it  down  to  soup  cubes.  Mrs.  J.D.  writes  that  for  years  her  former  husband  got  up  in  the  night  to  eat  Maoist  leftovers.  When  she  pad-  locked  the  refrigerator,  he  went  to  a  friend's  house.  A  consultant  advised  her  to  paint  on  the  kitchen  door  &quot;What  makes  you  think  you  want  this?&quot;  After  Mrs.  J.D.'s  husband  moved  to  a  different  city,  she  found  he  had  been  hoarding  the  wrapped  kind,  which  were  then  one  for  the  price  of  five.  They  were  enveloped  in  pure  silver  paper,  she  recalls.  In  theold  days  Chinese  children  were  encour-  aged  to  save  the  paper.  When  they  had  a  silver  ball  weighing  eight  pounds,  they  could  buy  an  American.  &quot;If  men  loathe  the  sight  of  tired  women,  as  you  stated  on  23  Novem-  ber,&quot;  writes  ML.,  &quot;then  how  do  you  account  for  Robert  and  Elizabeth  Browning?&quot;  That  assertion  never  emanated  from  this  space.  On  23  November  this  space  was  occupied  by  an  X-ray  picture  of  a  sheep's  liver.  Actually,  many  men  de-  clare  thata  museful  relationship  can  develop  from  a  partner's  fatigue  or  crucial  neck  pain.  Few  people  know  that  Robert  Browning  was  keen  on  most  things.  R.F.  has  inherited  from  his  grand-  father  a  package  that  resembles  a  box  of  breakfast  cereal.  When  he  shakes  the  box,  it  growls.  &quot;Tito  Revisionist  Pig&quot;  is  lettered  on  four  sides.  Other-  wise,  it  looks  cheap  and  unattractive.  R.F.  was  raised  never  to  throw  out  good  food.  He  wonders  if  the  box  is  worth  anything.  Is  there  a  demand  for  a  Revisionist  package?  Perhaps  some  adventurous  reader  might  like  to  start  up  a  new  mealtime  fad.  Mr.  K.R.  reminds  us  that  dialectical  botulism,  which  science  confidently  predicted  would  be  stamped  out  by  the  end  of  this  century,  hasreturned  in  the  form  of  a  bolder,  pudgier  strain  that  seems  impervious  to  modern  rational-  ization.  He  warns  that  these  tiny,  hardy  bacteria  can  live  for  years  with-  out  reassurance.  Also  pessimistic  is  Dr.  C.D.,  who  says  he  is  not  happy  even  looking  at  the  New  Kitchen.  It  seems  to  him  that  the  colors  clash  and  the  knives  and  forksare  not  enticing.  He  says  he  hap-  pened  to  be  going  by  and  looked  in  from  the  street.  On  a  more  upbeat  note,  Ms.  S.B.  sends  suggestions  for  New  Kitchen  improvement:  (1)  Engraving  of  Mal-  wida  von  Meysenbug  contemplating  the  bust  of  Wagner,  (2)  Ashtrays  carved  by  penguins,  (3)  Flashing  lights.  Making  the  New  Kitchen  work  is  only  a  matter  of  nimbleness  and  good  humor,  she  avers.  At  your  next  get-  together,  change  courses  fast.  Bring  on  the  surprise  of  exotic  matching  volumes  in  exciting  texture  contrast,  as  &quot;Leibl,  Wilhelm  (1844-1900):  Maler  und  Zeichner.&quot;  Someone  will  be  sure  to  add  &quot;Charles  Morgan,  English  Author  and  Staunch  Monarchist.&quot;  This  is  fare  all  guests  can  digest.  The  important  thing  is  to  keep  it  moving.   A  tip  from  reader  M.J.E.;:  &quot;Clean-  ing  the  basement,  I  came  acrossa  sack  of  marching  orders  that  still  looked  fresh.  After  washing  and  drying  them,  I  cut  them  on  the  bias  with  a  sharp  knife,  boiled  them  for  sixty  minutes  in  lightly  salted  water,  and,  carefully  spooning  them  into  sterilized  jars,  ob-  tained  two  hundred  quarts  of  pre-  serves,  which  I  placed  on  shelves  in  a  dark  closet.  That  was  a  year  ago.  How  safe  are  these  preserves  now?  What  about  color  contrast  and  possible  min-  eral  loss?&quot;  Reader  P.V.  has  an  answer  for  T.W.,  who  was  wondering  if  corre-  spondence  could  be  used  up  in  stews  and  economy  puddings.  Correspon-  dence  should  be  scraped  and  frozen,  then  gently  thawed,  a  quarter  sheet  at  a  time,  overa  steady  flame.  If  the  mix-  ture  &quot;catches,&quot;  place  the  saucepan  in  cold  water,  being  careful  not  to  stir  the  carbonized  final  options.  Owing  to  a  mistaken-terminology  development,  last  week's  caption  read,  &quot;New  Kitchen  chairman  ices  square  cake  as  vice-president  looks  on.&quot;  As  about  two  dozen  of  you  pointed  out,  &quot;square&quot;  should  have  read  &quot;maple-  walnut.&quot;  This  space  regrets  the  un-  avoidable. "