 b"THROUGH  the  misty  hissing  I  spray  of  the  yard  sprinkler,  through  the  moving  screen  of  the  hanging  ferns,  Paul  could  see  Lois  Casey  sprawled  in  the  porch  ham-  mock,  her  father's  unlaced  tennis  sneakers  on  her  long,  narrow  feet.  Mr.  Casey  stood  in  the  driveway  hosing  down  his  new  Hupmobile  sedan.  At  the  wheel  ofthe  car  sat  Lois's  little  brother  Charlie,  wearing  his  father's  streetcar  motorman's  hat.  The  noises  he  was  making,  blowing  through  his  lips,  could  not  be  heard,  because  the  windows  were  up.  The  catbirds  nesting  in  the  wire  baskets  of  ferns  flew  in  and  out  of  the  sprinkler's  range,  their  wings  beating.  Paul  was  unable  to  see,  but  he  knew  that  Lois  held  a  rabbit  in  her  lap,  one  of  a  pair  of  Belgian  hares  he  had  given  her  for  her  birthday  a  year  ago.  The  male  of  the  pair  had  been  returned  to  the  pet  store  after  it  had  eaten  part  of  its  own  litter.  Lois  was  not  indifferent  to  the  facts  of  life  she  observed  in  the  mason  jars  in  her  bedroom,  but  the  roleof  males,  now  that  it  was  ques-  tioned,  had  not  been  settled  to  her  sat-  isfaction.  On  the  porch  beneath  the  hammock,  in  an  ice-cream  carton,  were  two  spot-  ted  long-tailed  goldfish,  a  gift  from  Paul  yesterday  on  her  fourteenth  birth-  day.  Nobody  but  her  mother  believes  Lois  is  merely  fourteen.  When  she  dances  with  Paul  in  her  tennis  sneakers  they  are  eyeball  to  eyeball,  and  she  is  still  growing.  He  agrees  with  her  mother  that  in  the  past  year  she  has  grown  too  fast.  Beginning  early  this  spring,  Paul  was  no  longer  needed  to  reach  for  her  books  on  top  of  the  school  locker,  or  to  return  the  gravy  bowl,  after  wiping,  to  the  top  shelf  in  the  pantry.  In  the  dusk  of  the  base-  ment,  while  he  had  both  arms  around  her,  she  had  put  up  one  arm  to  switch  off  the  light  she  previously  couldn't  reach.  A  moth  fluttered  around  the  arm  she  had  lifted  to  the  light  cord,  the  elbow  inwardly  bent,  like  a  drawn  bow.  Paul  had  found  that  disturbing,  even  at  the  time,  since  it  confirmed  that  her  bones  were  not  yet  fully  formed.  Since  last  night's  movie  Lois  seemed  to  have  forgotten  about  the  carton  of  goldfish  beneath  the  hammock.  Her  attention  had  been  diverted  back  to  butterflies.  Before  he  gave  her  the  rab-  bits  (Mrs.  Casey  had  warned  him  that  Mr.  Casey  did  not  like  puppies  or  kit-  tens),  Paul  had  helped  her  catch  but-  terflies  in  the  park,  or  in  the  orchard  of  her  Uncle  Ed's  bee  farm  in  Urbana.  The  more  unusual  butterflies  were  put  into  mason  jars  with  their  Latin  names  printed  on  the  jar  labels.  A  long  row  of  these  jars  sat  on  the  sill  of  her  win-  dow  to  catch  the  afternoon  sun.  Lois  did  not  as  yet  read  Latin,  but  she  planned  to  take  it  in  her  first  year  of  high  school  -the  one  coming  up.  At  the  rear  of  the  house,  Mrs.  Casey  had  her  vegetable  garden,  adjacent  to  the  Epworth  League's  volleyball  court.  A  high  chicken-wire  fence  enclosed  the  court,  but  some  balls  went  over  it  into  her  garden.  Lois's  little  brother  Charlie  would  get  the  ball,  but  almost  go  crazy  trying  to  throw  it  back  over  the  high  fence.  If  Lois  tried  to  do  it,  throwing  the  ball  the  way  girls  do,  it  was  so  painful  to  watch  her  that  Paul  would  turn  away  and  go  to  the  foun-  tain  for  a  swallow  of  water.  Most  of  the  time  he  had  to  go  for  the  ball  him-  self,  using  the  gate  on  the  alley.  That  was  how  they  first  met,  even  though  she  had  lived  all  thoseyears  right  across  the  street.  If  Paul  was  play-  ing  volleyball,  she  might  sit  on  the  porch  stoop,  her  legs  drawn  up,  or  she  might  come  to  stand  at  the  chicken-  wire  fence,  her  arms  stretched  high  to  hook  her  fingers  in  the  wire,  her  nose  pressed  through  one  of  the  holes,  as  if  she  might  just  hang  there  till  her  mother  came  out  and  called  her  in.  The  peculiar  eating  habits  of  male  Belgian  hares  led  him  to  present  her  with  the  long-tailed  goldfish,  one  of which  he  had  found  would  swallow  lead  BBs  he  could  see  asa  lump  in  its  stomach.  When  Mrs.  Casey  first  asked  Paul  to  join  them  on  a  picnic  at  Uncle  Ed's  farm,  he  was  shown  where  and  how  to  look  for  glowworms  and  for  caterpil-  lars  that  would  turn  into  butterflies.  No  matter  what  he  and  Lois  did,  her  little  brother  spied  on  them.  On  the  long  drive  home,  Mrs.  Casey  con-  fessed  (Lois  was  in  the  front  seat,  with  her  father  and  Charlie)  how  relieved  she  was  that  Lois  had  found  an  older  companion  who  shared  her  own  inter-  ests,  which  included  wiping  the  supper  dishes.  In  her  own  life  Mrs.  Casey  had  found  that  nothing-no,  nothing-  ever  replaced  those  first  affections.  After  the  grubs  and  caterpillars  had  been  put  into  the  gauze-topped  jars,  with  the  bits  of  twigs  and  leaves  they  liked  to  chew  on,  everyone  played  rummy  with  the  joker  wild,  Mr.  Casey  and  Charlie  winning  most  of  the  games.  Later,  unable  to  sleep  because  of  his  sunburn,  Paul  saw  a  glow  at  her  bedroom  window,  which  he  took  to  bethe  jar  with  the  glowworms.  The  aspect  of  her  beauty  that  en-  thralled  him  the  most  was  the  way  she  would  sit,  on  the  top  step  of  the  porch,  with  her  legs  hugged  to  her  front,  her  chin  resting  on  her  knees,  as  far  away  as  the  [REDACTED],  who  had  a  similar  hairdo.  N  the  quiet  between  passing  street-  cars,  Paul  could  hear  water  falling  like  rain  on  the  Caseys'  sidewalk.  Mr.  Casey  himself,  in  his  undershirt,  sat  on  the  steps  of  the  porch,  sprinkling  the  corners  of  the  lawn.  Now  and  then  he  aimed  a  stream  of  water  into  the  trees,  from  where  it  would  drip  onto  the  walk.  A  tall,  thin  man  with  a  trucu-  lent  manner,  Mr.  Casey  was  different  when  you  got  to  know  him.  On  the  previous  day,  for  Lois's  birthday,  he  had  taken  his  family  and  Paul  to  see  &quot;All  Quiet  on  the  Western  Front.&quot;  To  make  the  first  show  they  had  gone  without  supper,  and  they  picked  up  four  bags  of  popcorn  in  the  lobby.  Lois  had  simply  not  known  it  was  a  war  movie,  or  she  wouldn't  have  gone.  She  liked  Lew  Ayres,  the  young  German  soldier,  but  in  the  trench  scene  with  the  butterfly  she  had  withdrawn  the  hand  Paul  was  holding.  She  could  not  control  her  sobbing.  Mrs.  Casey  had  led  her  out  to  the  lobby.  To  just  sit  there  as  if  he  didn't  share  Lois's  feel-  ings  made  Paul  miserable.  The  emotion  " b"he  felt  made  it  hard  for  him  to  swallow,  but  it  was  not  for  the  soldier,  orthe  but-  terfly,  that  he  felt  it.  When  the  lights  came  on,  Paul  went  out  to  the  lobby  to  be  with  Lois.  First  he  looked  for  her  in  the  basement  near  the  washroom,  then  among  the  crowd  of  people  waiting  near  the  entrance.  She  liked  to  watch  people.  Al-  most  anything  some  of  them  did  made  her  laugh.  The  fits  of  gig-  gling  she  might  have  in  an  Epworth  League  meeting  made  it  em-  barrassing  for  Paul  to  be  with  her.  What  she  had  probably  done  now,  to  punish  all  of  them,  was  leave  the  movie  house  and  go  home  alone.  Paul  had  to  choose  between  sid-  ing  with  Lois  and  not  pleasing  Mrs.  Casey,  or  siding  with  the  fam-  ily  and  having  Lois  ask  him  if  he  was  her  mother's  new  boyfriend.  With  her  mother  he  already  had  so  much  in  common  that  they  discussed  it  while  he  wiped  the  dishes.  If  Lois  thought  they  were  talking  about  her,  she  would  make  a  simply  god-awful  face  by  flattening  her  nose  with  the  heel  of  her  hand.  &quot;You're  going  to  do  that  just  once  too  often,&quot;  her  mother  told  her,  and  that  was  what  worried  Paul  the  most.  In  moments  of  excitement  she  could  flare  her  nostrilslike  one  of  her  rabbits  when  it  sniffed  some-  thing.  Paul  found  her  back  at  thehouse,  lollingin  the  hammock,  with  her  favorite  female  Belgian  hare  in  her  lap.  &quot;Amos  and  Andy&quot;  was  tuned  in  on  the  neighbors'  radio.  On  the  floor  beneath  the  hammock,  where  she  had  left  it,  was  the  ice-cream  carton  with  the  long-tailed  goldfish.  Paul  worried  about  them,  too,  but  it  wasn't  the  time  to  bring  it  up.  When  the  Caseys  got  home,  Mr.  Casey  went  inside,  but  Mrs.  Casey  stopped  to  saya  few  words  to  her  daughter.  She  was  especially  critical  of  the  selfish  way  Lois  had  spoiled  Paul's  evening  and  her  own     birthday.  They  all  had  feelings,  just  the  same  as  she  did,  only  they  had  the  good  manners  to  control  them.  During  the  night,  flashes  of  heat  lightning  lit  up  the  front  of  the  Caseys'  house.  It  startled  Paul  to  see  it  all  so  clearly  one  moment,  then  the  next  moment  it  would  be  gone.  In  the  bright  flash,  he  could  see  the  mason  jars,  each  one  with  something  in  it  that  would  soon  be  something  else.  The  white  columns  of  the  porch  were  ghostly  in  the  street  light,  and  he  could  read  the  iceman's  card  over  the  hole  in  the  screen  door.  On  warm  summer  nights  like  this  one,  the  Caseys'  screen  would  be  latched  but  the  front  door  left  open,  and  he  could  see  the  night-light  glowing  at  the  top  of  the  stairs.  At  the  frontofthe  house,  the  wire  that  fenced  off  the  new  grass  dangled  strips  of  white  rags  so  the  neighborhood  kids  wouldn't  trip  on  it.  On  the  first  stepto  the  porch,  her  little  brother  Charlie  had  left  a  single  roller  skate  for  somebody  to  step  on  and  kill  himself.  Not  that  Charlie  cared.  When  that  was  pointedout  it  only  made  him  laugh.  As  Paul's  eyes  adjusted  to  the  dark-  ness,  he  saw  something  move  on  the  roof  of  the  porch.  One  of  Lois's  rab-  bits  was  hopping  around  in  the  leaves  of  the  gutter.  Straining  to  make  out  more,  he  saw  an  apparition,  white  as  skimmed  milk,  on  the  roof  just  to  the  right  of  her  window.  A  figure  crouched  there,  the  legs  drawn  up,  the  chin  rest-  ing  on  the  knees.  As  he  gazed,  un-  blinking,  a  firefly  appeared  to  emerge  from  the  lips.  In  the  brief,  incandes-  cent  glow,  he  saw  her  face.  Unmis-  takably  she  held,  and  was  puffing  on,  a  cigarette.  It  had  shamed  him  not  to  share  her  uncontrolled  weeping  at  the  sightof  the  butterfly  and  the  soldier,  or  her  tears  for  the  baby  rabbits  eaten  by  their  father;  but  for  the  pity  he  now  felt  for  lovers,  especially  himself,  he  was  grateful. "