 b'SMALL  puddles  of  gray  fluff  had  been  appearing  for  years  on  office  floors  and  in  the  vestibules  of  suburban  homes,  but  no  one  paid  atten-  tion.  An  occasional  book  reviewer  or  mail  clerk  showed  up  in  city  hospital  out-patient  clinics  bearing  the  tiny  dou-  ble  marks  of  &quot;staple  stab&quot;  all  over  their  thumbs,  but  it  never  made  the  news-  papers.  It  was  not  until  the  iron-gray  fluff  was  augmented  by  a  ubiquitous  snow  of  magnetized  white  plastic  pellets  and  entire  secretarial  staffs  were  in-  capacitated  with  digital  cuts  and  sprained  wrists  suffered  whilewres-  tling  with  thread-reinforced  strapping  tape  that  the  full  scope  of  the  horror  dawned  upon  the  public-by  which  time  the  plague  was  far  advanced.  The  book  envelopes  and  their  deadly,  drifting  spore  were  everywhere.  From  what  dying  star  had  they  been  launched  into  space,  and  upon  what  deserted  patch  of  our  planet  had  they  made  their  unwitnessed  landing?  Northern  New  Jersey  seemed  the  best  guess.  No  one  could  remember  when  they  had  not  existed,  when  books  had  been  simply  wrapped  in  brown  paper  and  string,  like  everything  else.  At  first,  the  envelopes  had  parted  with  their  contents  easily,  releasing  what  seemed  a  negligible  spattering  of  dull-  colored  matter  as  innocuous  as  the  woolly  beige  stuff  maple  trees  drop  in  the  spring.  Then  their  staples  seemed  to  lengthen  and  to  become  baroquely  tenacious  in  shape,  sothat  only  a  pro-  longed  struggle  pried  open  the  limp  brown  pods,  with  a  proportionately  lavish  dissemination  of  the  ominous  fluff.  People  began  to  noticethe  book  envelopes  piling  up  in  corners  of  their  basements  and  garages,  with  no  memory  of  having  put  them  there.  The  post  offices,  in  a  move  whose  dire  significance  was  grasped  only  in  vain  retrospect,  began  to  sell  the  things-  disarmingly  named  &quot;mailers,&quot;  after  a  civic-minded,  prize-winning  author  of  the  era-over  the  counter,  in  every  precinct  and  hamlet.  The  infiltration  had  spread  to  thetop  levels  of  govern-  ment,  and  soon  contaminated  the  en-  tire  globe.  Distracted  by  tension  abroad  and  economic  malaise  at  home,  the  nation  did  not  ask  itself  what  swelling  bales  were  being  unloaded  by  &quot;banana  boats&quot;  in  New  Orleans  and  Galveston  and  &quot;macadamia  freighters&quot;  along  the  vulnerable,  already  fad-ridden  West  33  [REDACTED].  A  mutant  third  species  of  book  envelope  entered  from  4a6170616e,  lined  with  a  plastic  bubble-paper  that  chil-  dren  in  their  innocence  loved  to  pop,  releasing  odorless  vapors  into  the  at-  mosphere.  Paid  experts  pooh-poohed  any  correlation  between  bubble-paper  and  acid  rain.  [REDACTED],  long  regarded  by  the  anti-envelopement  underground  as  a  refuge,  ceased  to  be  so  when  Andr\xc3\xa9  Jiffy  was  elected  Prime  Minis-  ter  and  ordered  the  border  stapled  shut.  Within  the  tormented  maze  of  the  [REDACTED]  Postal  Service  regulations  was  born  the  rumor  that  strapping  tape  had  become  obligatory,  rendering  each  envelope  impervious  to  mechan-  ical  attack.  All  fourth-class  mail,  the  lifeblood  of  an  educated  citizenry,  now  travelled  back  and  forth  unopenable.  Drifts  of  fluff  reached  knee-high  into  the  Rockies.  The  President  and  his  joint  security  chiefs  had  themselves  shipped  to  Bimini  via  [REDACTED],  and  over  the  radio  rustling,  muffled  spokes-  things  declared  the  country  to  be  60%  recycled  fibres  and  entirely  under  the  rule  of  a  tan,  pre-stamped  junta,  in  a  variety  of  handy  sizes.  Somewhere  near  the  dotted  Mason-  Dixon  Line,  the  last  human  voice  ex-  pired,  desperately  crying,  &quot;Pull  here!&quot;  '