 b" IN  rolls  Grace, neighbor,   my  cold.  Seconds  later,  she's  awake  and  croaking,  &quot;Oh,  sweet  Jesus!  Help  me!&quot;  I'm  just  back  over  the  line  myself,  so  I  stay  put.  The  curtain's  drawn  between  our  beds.  I  wouldn't  pull  it  if  I  could.  I  might  be  sick.  Surgery's  like  being  mugged;  you  never  know  what  you'll  do  going  under  or  coming  up.  On  Nembutal,  I'm  always  sharp.  I  rolled  off  to  the  knives  this  morning  memorizing  names,  numbers,  faces,  in  case  I  should  need  to  get  beck  alone.  I  woke  up  whining,  &quot;Ah,  ah,  my  [REDACTED]'s  too  tight!&quot;  Sodium  Pentothal.  No  shame.  They  gave  me  a  shot.  They  give  Grace  a  shot.  I  doze.  I'm  really  con-  centrating  on  my  first  job,  which  is  not  vomiting.  Four  of  us  sleep  in  this  room,  Grace  on  my  left.  By  her  second  bad  spell,  the  curtain's  open  and  I  can  whisper  to  her,  &quot;You'll  feel  better.&quot;  It's  easy  for  me  to  talk.  It's  10  r.m.,  I've  finished  my  second  job-taking  a  walk-and  for  me  the  suspense  is  over.  The  first  walk  is  how  you  know  your  cut.  In  [REDACTED],  where  I  spent  a  month  in  hospital  years  ago,  the  entire  ward  watched  one  patient  take  her  first  steps out     after  surgery.  She  was  a  blooming,  muscular  redhead  of  about  thirty,  and  she  was  being  a  good  girl,  you  could  see  it  in  her  faceas  she  worked  at  her  job:  One,  two,  three,  four,  five,  the  end.  Then  she  burst  into  tears  and  had  to  have  a  chair  brought  to  her  where  she  stood.  It's  the  truth  of  the  cut.  Boy,  what  a  month  that  was.  One  room,  twenty  women.  We  ate  at  one  table  andhad  to  do  ward  work  (beds,  dusting),  not  for  economy  but  to  heal  ourselves.  Everyone  complained.  This  was  years  before  I  came  to  Washing-  ton,  met  and  married  Tom,  and  tried  to  have  our  child.  It  was  1967,  and  the  room  hummed  with  racial  tension.  I  had  a  Pakistani  boyfriend,  no  emotion-  al  reserves,  and  was  forever  leaving  conversations  shaking  like  a  china  cupboard.  On  the  whole,  I  made  a  good  impression,  though.  I  never  screamed;  I  thought  they'd  throw  me  out.  Only,  I  was  bad  at  healing.  I  healed  two  weeks  late.  My  visa  ex-  pired,  and  the  minute  I  gotout  I  had  to  marry  Amir  or  leave  [REDACTED],  but  for  weeks  it  was  the  hospital  I  spoke  of.  Grace  has  one  more  bad  spell.  I   have  a  yogurt.  Then  we  all  go  to  sleep.  I  WAKE  up  starving:  I  must  be  well.  I've  walked  twice  to  the  bathroom  with  only  my  [REDACTED]  cart  for  support.  And  now,  as  I  wait  for  break-  fast,  the  morning  staff  rush  one  by  one  behind  the  curtain  to  advise  Grace,  who  woke  up  groaning.  &quot;You  think  you  have  to  go,  but  it's  because  you  have  a  catheter.&quot;  They  all  tell  her  this;  they  never  ask.  This  time  it's  the  ward  nurse,  who  leaves  at  a  dead  run.  Next,  the  voice  of  Bette  Davis:  &quot;I  shot  you  up  good,  didn't  I'  And  now  you  must  help  me.  You  must  walk  for  me.&quot;  A  gaunt  tennis  type,  white  coat,  white  pageboy,  rushes  out.  W  hoosh!  A  small  nurse  in  a  perfect  shag  rushes  in.  She  says  her  name  is  Nell  and  tells  Grace  in  baby  talk,  &quot;Now,  you  had  a  hysterectomy,  so  you  don't  have  a  uterus,  so  you  won't  ministrate  anymore.&quot;  Whoosh!  But  little  Nell  skids  to  a  halt.  Across  the  room,  my  neighbor  Marge,  a  nice,  gray-haired  woman,  is  waiting  in  bed,  alone  and  pale,  for  her  pre-op  sendoff.  Nell  stops  with  her  perky  smile.  What  is  Marge  having?  Marge  has  a  little  speech  prepared  and  she  gives  it:  &quot;Hysterectomy.  I'm  sort  of  nervous.&quot;  I'd  giggle  if  it  didn't  hurt.  Get  out  ofthat  one,  Nell.  But  Nell's  cool.  She  pauses  just  long  enough  to  get  a  good  spin  on  her  rubber  soles.  &quot;Routine!&quot;  she  says.  Who  teaches  bedside  manner?  My  first  night  here,  a  surgeon  rushed  up  to  the  fourth  patient  in  our  room,  Mrs.  Ng,  who  had  been  cut  that  morning  and  was  just  surfacing.  She  had  her  daughter  with  her  to  translate.  &quot;Well!&quot;  the  surgeon  said.  &quot;We  took  one  out  but  we  left  you  one.&quot;  Ovary.  Sheand  her  daughter  said,  &quot;Thank  you,  thank  you.&quot;  Should  I  carp?  Surgeons  have  their  reasons;  nurses,  too.  At  the  very  least,  they  have  no  time.  Next,  they  barely  know  us.  Moreover,  they  can't  heal  us.  Not  as  such.  Sympathy  might  promote  weakness,  I  can  see  that.  What  can  they  be  but  perky  or  dry?  The  truth  is,  I'm  only  making  excuses.  I  find  Nell  as  irritating  as  an  [REDACTED]  I  much  pre-  ferred  the  night  aide,  who  looked  at  me  as  if  I'd  lost  my  mind  when  I  asked  her  to  help  me  walk.  I  don't  mind  honest  mistakes  or  even  honest  ne-  glect,  but  I  won't  be  talked  down  to  -when  I'm  talked  down  to,  I  fight.  " b"  On  the  other  hand,  when  I  fight,  I  al-  ways  win  something-some  fact  I  didn't  know.  From  the  resident:  side  effects  of  the  tubal  surgery  I  didn't  have  to  have.  From  the  morning  nurse:  my  drug's  second  name.  I  don't  want  baby  talk,  I  want  theories,  facts.  I  want  knowledge.  How  am  I?  Why?  What  are  my  orders?  My  orders  are  to  do  what  I  want.  Everyone  says  this-nurses,  internes,  my  doctor.  I  want  to  be  better,  so  I  act  as  if  I  am.  I  never  ask  for  help.  I  urinate  alone.  I  spilled  yogurt  and  cleaned  it  up  on  my  hands  and  knees.  I  clean  every-  thing.  Except  blood;  that's  their  prob-  lem.  Can  I  bathe  myself,  an  aide  asks,  and  I  practically  laugh  in  her  face.  I  crank  my  own  bed.  Oh,  then  I  want  a  shower?  I  fell  right  into  that  one.  I'm  great!  But  I  couldn't  manage  a  shower.  I  ought  to  be  great.  When  Grace  croaks  compliments  on  my  great  walk-  ing,  I  brush  her  off.  I  had  nothing,  compared  to  her.  One  D.  &amp;  C.,  one  two-inch  slit  through  the  belly.  A  long  look  through  with  the  narrow  laparoscope.  No  inside  cuts.  Alone  of  my  neighbors  I'll  bring  home  every-  thing  I  brought  in  with  me:  two  tubes,  two  ovaries,  one  womb.  Not  only  that-  my  news  was  good.  Everything  works  now.  My  doctor  said  so  when  I  woke  up  last  night,  before  I  walked.  Half  of  it  didn't  work  when  they  looked  in  by  culdoscope,  five  years  ago.  The  culdoscope  showed  what  was  wrong,  but  not  why.  It  only  showed  the  scars.  But  bacteria  hid  in-  side  the  scars  and  spread  untilin  time  the  whole  system  was  sealed  off.  Infec-  tion  shielded  the  system.  Behind  that  shield,  my  doctor  told  me,  the  scars  healed  themselves.  He  gave  my  stomach  a  friendly  poke  as  if  to  say  &quot;That's  that.&quot;  &quot;Don't  make  me  laugh,&quot;  I  cried.  But  it  was  too  late.  I  wes  laughing.  He'd  gone.  Whoosh!  And  I  still  had  one  more  question.  UTLE  NrEurt  is  back,  with  a  ven-  geance.  She's  given  Grace  a  plas-  tic  pipe  with  three  balls  at  the  end.  Grace's  job  is  to  blow  through  the  pipe  until  the  balls  spin.  This  will  clear  the  gas  off  -and,  with  her  wound,  gas  is  a  real  liability.  No  effort  except  breath-  ing  doesn't  hurt-twisting  to  one  side  for  a  shot,  even  being  cranked  up  in  bed,  and,  God  knows,  the  real  terror  of  the  abdominal-surgery  convales-  cent:  coughing.  But  Grace,  a  remark-  ably  sweet  and  affable  woman  who,  before  surgery,  fretted  over  other  peo-  ple's  troubles  on  the  evening  news,  is  considerate  even  in  pain.  At  night,  in  her  third  bad  spell,  what  Grace  wailed  was  &quot;I  don't  want  to  be  a  nuisance!&quot;  I'm  working  on  breakfast.  Up  to  a  point.  Surgery  does  something  to  your  sense  of  ambiguity.  One  minute  I  could  eat  forever  and  the  next  I'm  so  clearly  finished  that  I  have  to  take  egg  out  of  my  mouth.  Nell's  theory  of  healing  seems  to  be  positive  reinforcement,  and  she  has  no  shame  at  all.  She'll  compliment  any-  thing:  Grace  turning  for  a  shot,  Grace  raising  one  plump  brown  leg  for  washing.  Nell  moves  on  to  common  interests:  fashion.  She  draws  Grace  out.  What  about  knits?  Skirt  lengths?  Rabbit  coats?  I'm  working  overtime  to  get  Nell  off  my  nerves,  but  my  real  job  is  lying  down  again,  by  angles.  Who  really  knows  what  heals?  Take  this  opera-  tion  of  mine  as  a  case  in  point.  Why  was  this  laparotomy  a  snap  and  that  culdoscopy  so  bad  that  I  was  sick  for  weeks?  After  all,  this  wound's  worse.  It  could  be  the  angle  of  the  cut.  But  it  might  not  be  that  at  all.  It  might  be  me.  Maybe  I'm  stronger  now.  It  might  be  that  this  time  Tom  knew  he  " b"had  a  job  and  did  it.  Came  when  I  called,  to  do  what  Mrs.  Ng's  daughter  did.  To  watch  me  sleep.  That  could  have  made  the  difference.  Or  could  it  simply  be  that,after  five  years,  I've  stumbled  on  an  infertility  specialist  with  charm?  What  I  had  was  nothing.  But  I  couldn't  get  over  my  culdoscopy,  could  I?'  And  that  was  nothing,  too.  They  told  me  so.  I'm  on  my  back,  recovering  from  getting  there.  Nell,  meanwhile,  has  called  another  nurse  behind  the  cur-  tain  to  help  compliment  the  bedsocks,  the  interesting  career  aspiration,  the  newest  progress.  And  finally  Grace  is  taken  in.  She  did  blow  that  one  well,  Grace  admits  with  a  croak.  They  are  good  socks.  She  vows  to  blow  even  bet-  ter  next  time.  At  each  college  try,  the  nurses  pummel  her  with  compliments.  At  each  halting  admission,  a  frog  leaves  Grace's  hoarse  throat.  Grace's  voice  gets  louder,  clearer,  and  surer.  Nell  has  taken  Grace  in,  and  healed  her.  At  nine  o'clock,  Grace,  who  at  eight  could  barely  shift  weight,  emerges  from  behind  her  curtain,  daz-  zled,  on  two  nurses'  arms,  walking.  The  rest  of  us,  Grace's  three  neigh-  bors,  go  wild.  Marge  claims  she  isn't  afraid  anymore.  Mrs.  Ng  smiles  very  hard.  She  smiled  at  me,  too,  when  she  saw  me  walk.  This  is  her  first  day smiling.  &quot;Grace?&quot;  I  say,  when  the  dust  has  settled  behind  Nell,  and  Grace,  still  dazed,  has  been  put  in  a  chair.  I  gesture  after  Nell.  &quot;She  was  good,  wasn't  she?&quot;  Grace  swears,  &quot;That  girl  was  born  to  nurse!&quot;  ONE  day  in  the  English  hospital,  an  out-patient  was  rushed  behind  a  curtain  for  an  emergency  procedure  screaming  so  bloodcur-  dlingly  that  I  had  to  leave  the  room  in  tears.  That  troubled  me.  I  was  twenty-two.  I  knew,  at  heart,  I  cared  for  no  one  but  myself.  What  was  this  leaving  rooms  all  about,  then?  Who  was  I  trying  to  kid?  Why  go  to  such  lengths?  I  did  care,  but  I  was  right  to  doubt  my  mo-  tive.  I  healed  myself  by  caring,  just  as  Grace  healed  herself  with  her  own  natural  trust.  &quot;I'll  miss  you!&quot;  she  tells  me  when  twenty-seven  hours  after  surgery  I'm  allowed  to  go  home.  I  brush  it  off.  &quot;Oh,  well,&quot;  I  say,  and  go  pack  my  fourteen  books.  For  me,  trusting  is  harder  than  caring.  But  trust  heals,  likesleep.  I  care  for  Grace,  and  let  her  trust  for  me.  On  my  way  out,  I  have  two  bits  of  luck.  First,  Tom  takes  my  bags.  Next,  I  work  out  how  to  walk  outside:  pigeon-breasted  on  top,  and  crooked  back  at  the  hips  like  a  seven.  Clutching  my  tulips  like  a  bal-  lerina,  I  walk  my  walk  up  the  street.  One,  two,  three-only,  I  hadn't  figured  on  the  hill-four.  Five.  The  end.  No  ambiguity.  A  cab  has  to  be  brought  to  me  where  I  stand.  No  shame.  "