 b"AGAINST  forgetfulness  and  an  assembly  of  blurs,  he  would  try  to  remember  the  first  summer  here  in  northern  [REDACTED].  Already,  in  his  memory,  colors  were  plainer,  the  chicory  blowing  against  the  green  of  the  pastures  with  the  Blue  Ridge  just  beyond.  There  was  a  constant  aware-  ness  of  the  mountains,  among  which  the  farm  lay  in  a  gap.  The  sun  came  up  over  one  set  of  ridges  and  was  claimed  by  another  suddenly,  in  the  midst  of  afternoon.  He  was  new  here.  At  daybreak  he  would  leap  up  and  walk  barefoot  in  the  whitish  dew  around  the  cabin.  The  wood  where  the  logs  were  fitted  to-  gether  had  a  damp  and  sour  smell.  There  were  two  crude  windows,  with  small  wavery  panes,  and  the  door  was  flush  with  the  ground.  He  could  wander  quite  a  way  in  the  pasture  and  still  see  the  fire  on  the  hearth.  This  house,  he  thought,  is  out  of  some  dis-  tant  past.  If  I  had  always  lived  here,  I  would  havehad  no  bad  days.  I  would  arise  in  the  morning  with  a  quotation  from  the  poets,  sing  an  Ave  or  two,  and  throw  sticks  on  the  fire  toboil  coffee.  I  would  be  a  serene  scholar  instead  of  a  jittery  farm  laborer.  His  child  was  with  him.  She  made  this  hiding  worthwhile.  He  was  never  through  staring  at  her,  astonished  all  over  again  by  the  perfection  ofher.  We  are  in  strange  parts,  my  dear,  he  explained,  because  your  father  needs  rest,  He  was  always  needing  rest.  Anyway  it  will  be  good  for  you  to  know  material  poverty  at  the  age  of  six.  He  talked  to  her  as  he  pleased  in  this  place.  What  he  said  seemed  to  carry  weight  with  their  witnesses,  the  trees  and  the  gray  strands  of  limestone  that  outcropped,  like  whales'  backs,  on  the  uptilted  pasture.  The  farmer  who  had  hired  him  was  in  real  need  of  help.  At  first  he  seemed  rude  and  officious,  asking  personal  questions.  Why  did  they  want  to  come  here?  Did  they  know  somebody  nearby?  But  a  little  patience  and  the  old  man  was  deep  in  his  own  troubles.  He  was  crippled  up  with  arthritis  and  about  on  his  last  legs.  The  big  estates  all  around  him  were  holding  their  breath  till  he  died-didn't  like  small  farms.  Then,  this  close  to  Washing-  ton  the  government  was  into  every-  thing  and  the  government  could  con-  demn  you,  serve  you  a  pieceof  paper  in  the  middle  of  the  morning  and  turn  you  into  a  park  for  more  of  their  trash  to  play  in.  It  was  pitiful.  As  the  farmer  talked,  his  complex-  ion  grew  mottled  and  his  small  eyes  looked  congested  behind  the  metal-  rimmed  glasses.  He  was  not  going  to  be  troublesome.  He  was  just  a  tired  old  man  with  a  lot  ofbizarre  delusions.  On  top  of  everything  else,  he  was  afraid  of  thieves  who  swooped  out  from  the  city  and  took  whatever  they  wanted.  One  of  the  neighbors  had  been  killed  trying  to  defend  his  gas  pump.  Every  once  in  a  while  the  farmer  stopped  talking  to  look  point-  edly  at  the  child.  Did  the  mother  die  or  something?  It's  generally  the  mother  does  the  raising.  Y  the  end  of  the  summer  it  looked  as  if  they  could  stay  in  the  gap  as  long  as  they  wanted  to.  The  work  itself  was  no  trouble.  Each  time  the  farmerneeded  something  done,  he  went  into  explanations,  repeating  him-  self  monotonously.  Maybe  he  took  po-  liteness  for  refusal  to  understand.  The  old  man  paid  him  by  check  at  the  end  of  everySaturday.  He  wished  it  could  be  more,  he  said,  but  interest  was  eat-  ing  him  up.  They  put  the  checks  in  a  turtle  shell  high  on  the  cabin  rafters. It  wasenough  to  be  together,  to  be  with  the  child  all  day,  totalk  and  be  talked  to  in  a  kind  of  musing  way  that  had  no  end.  The  past  could  be  wholly  forgotten  here,  annulled,  and  the  fu-  ture  never  looked  at.  They  contented  themselves  withan  endless  procession  of  weather  signs  and  skyscapes,  with  the  fluted  lavender  blooms  of  the  hay  as  it  was  severed  by  triangular  knives  and  toppled  over  gently  like  cut  flowers  to  lie  in  state  for  the  baler,  Hay  was  their  biggest  job  of  the  summer.  The  farmer  believed  that  boys  from  his  church  would  come  and  give  them  a  hand  in  the  heaviest  partof  the  lifting,  but  no  one  came.  At  noon,  the  farmer's  wife  walked  to  wherever  they  were  in  the  field,  carrying  a  basket  of  pork  sandwiches  and  jars  of  lemonade  tea.  This  woman  had  about  her  an  air  of  obstinacy,  as  if  she  was  being  per-  suaded  to  go  against  her  better  judg-  ment.  If  spoken  to  or  thanked,  she  bridled  up  and  looked  wall-eyed  in  another  direction.  He  guessed  that  back  in  her  house  she  would  have  a  well-worn  concordance  and  apairof  rubber  gloves.  As  soon  as  they  were  through  baling  hay,  he  could  sense  the  farmer's  relief  that  they  had  not  encountered  rain.  Loading  two  bales  at  a  time,  while  the  old  man  drove  the  tractor,  it  was  pos-" b"sible  to  stack  almost  two  hundred  bales  on  each  wagon.  Then  when  they  pulled  under  the  eaves  of  the  barn,  thewinter's  feed  was  safe.  In  the  cool  of  the  mornings,  with  the  child  close  by,  he  unloaded  into  the  mows,  breathing  the  fragrant  scents  of  the  loaves  and  watching  the  sunlight  filter  in  between  the  boards  of  upright  sid-  ing.  On  the  pasture  outside  the  barn  the  fat  Hereford  cows  moved  along,  unable  to  keep  up  with  the  lush  growth  of  the  grass  and  Cammabis  se-  tiva.  When  there  was  no  other  noise,  you  could  hear  their  tongues  and  teeth  like  rising  and  falling  whispers.  Calves  came  and  nursed  as  at  some  mysterious  signal,  running  to  their  mothers,  all  of  them  at  once,  with  a  comic  rocking  motion.  In  the  long  green  evenings  he  took  the  child  by  the  hand  and  strolled  slowly  beside  her  into  other  fields,  in-  specting  the  summer's  empire.  Apples  were  ripening  on  old  trees  that  no  one  even  knew  about.  The  persimmons  were  loaded  with  jadelike  orbs  that  would  be  ready  after  the  first  frost.  Everywhere  they  looked,  something  was  offered  to  eat  or  to  put  away  for  winter.  Just  the  place  for  a  battered  man  and  his  child  to  find  refuge.  The  best  way,  then,  to  straighten  out  one's  worldly  affairs  was  to  have  no  affairs  to  straighten.  Like  a  monk  of  old  he  had  shed  his  friends  and  possessions.  The  friends  were  mostly  fictitious  and  the  possessions  only  books  and  hisfa-     Drama  ther's  beads-the  whole  of  his  patri-  mony.  Best  of  all,  he  could  lose  his  old  history  here-the  world's  clumsy  ver-  sions  of  it-his  feverish  comings  and  goings.  Sometimes  they  wandered  away  from  the  gap  and  onto  the  sculptured  forests  of  the  big  estates  to  the  east.  There  the  trees  were  an  ordered  dis-  tance  apart,  and  under  the  trunks  of  some  were  handsomely  wrought  plaques  naming  the  genusand  species.  A  little  farther  yet  and  there  began  the  showy  houses,  each  perched  on  an  acre  of  garden,  the  style  Potomac  eclectic.  Back  of  all  this,  just  across  the  river,  were  the  tracks  of  the  fast  train  to  [REDACTED],  its  passengers  held  anon-  ymous  by  windows  you  could  not  see  into.  It  would  be  hard  for  him  now,  he  felt,  to  take  this  train  and  plunge  back  into  city  life  in  any  guise  whatever,.  Had  a  little  country  quiet  so  quickly  destroyed  his  nerve?  Walking  along  thus,  talking  on  her  level  to  the  little  girl,  who  liked  the  sound  of  the  names  of  the  trees,  he  began  to  feel  uneasy.  Along  with  the  realization  that  he  could  not  go  back  came  a  temptation  to  make  this  para-  dise  perfect.  Unknown  to  himself,  he  had  figured  the  prognosis  and  knew  the  farmer  was  going  to  die.  He  would  be  subtracted  from  the  gap  as  easily  as  one  of  the  low-hanging  maple  leaves  could  be  plucked  off  its  branch.  Then  the  child  and  he  would  be  left  in  charge  of  the  wild  imperfections  of  ridge  and  stone  and  cedar.  They  could  do  for  the  bewildered  old  widow.  It  sat  nicely  with  him.  So,  alas,  outhere  in  the  country,  cut  off  from  the  general  consensus,  he  had  reverted  to  his  old  cutthroat  self.  Extra  prayers  tonight,  and  another  act  of  contrition.  Thank  God  there  were  no  priests  out  here  to  make  hash  of  one's  private  foibles.  Over  the  next  few  days  he  had  two  recurring  thoughts.  More  food  should  be  hoarded  in  the  cabin  in  case  the  farmer  died.  And  next  a  matter  of  conscience:  talk  to  the  poor  old  man  in  case  there  could  be  some  improvement.  Excuse  me,  sir,  your  stomach  is  taut  with  ascites,  otherwise  known  as  dropsy.  No,  back  up.  That  was  the  wrong  approach.  Sir,  with  all  due  re-  spect,  I  used  to  work  in  medicine.  But  who  would  believe  the  hired  man  on  such  an  important  subject?  Better  just  take  on  more  of  the  work  and  let  him  rock  along  with  his  Indocin  and  Lasix.  IRST  the  harvest  moon  and  then  the  hunter's  moon  threw  generous  light  on  the  gap.  The  remaining  grains  were  harvested  quickly  by  working  after  sunset.  The  child  went  to  sleep  in  her  harness  on  his  back  and  only  woke  up  when  he  drove  into  the  yard  and  stopped  the  machine.  He  took  her  to  the  moonlit  garden  for  a  supper  of  dead-ripe  cantaloupe.  He  observed  there  winter  squash  and  other  things  that  could  be  stored  in  the  loft.  Weeds  that  would  dry  and  keep.  Wild  yeast  was  coating  the  leavesof  the  dock.  He  would  scrape  this  off  and  mix  it  with  sprouted  barley  to  make  beer.  By  November  the  days  were  still  warm,  but  as  soon  as  evening  came,  a  chill  from  the  mountains  would  drive  them  in  from  the  doorway,  where  they  liked  to  listen  for  night  birds.  The  place  had  become  so  peaceful  that  deer  walked  up  to  the  well  and  drank  from  a  pan  of  water,  unaware  of  their  pres-  ence.  The  loft  was  packed  now  with  apples  and  nuts  and  vegetables-all  they  would  need  for  winter.  Here,  he  thought,  right  under  the  noses  of  the  powers  and  potentates,  we  have  our  secret  estate.  It  seemed  too  good  to  be  true.  In  sleep,  though,  some  of  his  confi-  dence  vanished.  He  became  aware  of  shadowy  authorities  who  expected  something  of  him.  Snatches  of  opin-  ions  reached  his  ears.  Cornered,  he  had  to  find  his  own  definition  on  offi-  cial-looking  lists.  The  print  was  small  " b"and  menacing.  Under  captains  and  kings,  nothing.  Physicians,  his  ner-  vous  breakdown.  Prelates?  Hardly.  Reluctantly  his  eyes  were  forced  down  to  the  T's.  Tenant.  There  he  was,  an  insignificant  smudge.  Other  dreams  found  him  near  the  end  of  a  college  semester  and  he  had  forgotten  to  at-  tend  a  single  session  of  the  phenome-  nology  class.  What  would  he  say  on  the  final?  The  seasons  were  hastening  for-  ward.  The  sun,  when  it  lifted  above  the  ridges,  was  often  a  quivering  or-  ange,  shot  through  with  azure  lines.  On  cold  mornings  the  farmer's  lips  were  cyanosed  and  he  was  acutely  short  of  breath.  Reluctantly  he  gave  over  the  chain  saw  with  a  request  that  wood  be  cut  for  his  fireplace.  He  talked  about  going  into  theveterans  hospital  for  a  checkup  but  didn't  know  if  he  should.  The  wife  is  a  little  backward.  You  may  have  noticed  that.  UST  before  Christmas  the  first  cold  wave  came  through  with  a  freez-  ing  wind  and  sleet.  The  farmer  drove  to  the  barn  at  the  usu-  al  time  but  did  not  get  out  of  his  truck  and  kept  the  motor  running  for  the  heat.  He  watched  as  the  silage  was  unloaded  from  the  silo  into  the  wagon  and  then  was  poured  by  the  trac-  tor's  power  takeoff  into  the  swaybacked  bun-  kers.  On  a  kind  im-  pulse  he  signalled  the  little  girl  to  come  and  sit  beside  him  in  the  truck.  They  could  be  seen  talking  together  while  the  hay  was  spread  in  the  racks.  Then  on  the  following  Sunday  he  did  not  come  to  the  barn  at  all  but  contented  himself  with  taking  his  wife  to  church.  They  brought  back  some  warm  clothes  for  the  child,  a  gift  of  the  congregation.  The  cabin  became  very  cold.  On  all  sides  of  the  room  they  had  piled  sticks  and  fag-  gots  from  the  deadfall  in  the  woods.  With  the  gasoline  saw,  green  locusts  were  cut  that  would  hold  the  fire  all  night.  The  rickety  bedstead  was  moved  in  front  of  the  stone  chimney,  and  this  way  they  had  light  and  warmth  when  the  days  were  at  their  shortest.  Lit-  tle  farm  work  could  be  done  except  for  feeding  theherd,  which  stood  patiently,  heads  down  in  the  freezing  air,  hardly  moving  until  the  spout  of  the  wagon  began  pouring  forth  their  si-  lage.  Then  each  cow  walked  stiff-  ly,  extending  her  neck  as  far  as  pos-  sible  in  an  effort  to  save  a  step.  Af-  ter  the  second  feeding  he  and  the  child  were  hardly  back  in  the  cabin  before  the  sun  was  gone.  At  the  sol-  stice  it  rose  in  the  center  of  the  east  window  and  went  down  in  the  center  of  the  opposite  one.  So  whoever  had  built  here  in  the  wilderness  was  ac-  quainted  with  the  habits  of  the  stars.  The  house  was  becoming,  in  the  words  of  the  poet  Borges,  &quot;little  by  little,  holy.&quot;  After  the  child  fell  asleep,  he  sat  on  the  hearth  and  drank  the  terrible-tast-  ing  beer.  When  theflames  brightened  and  fell  back,  it  was  unavoidable  to  glimpse  in  thestones  lost  profiles,  half  lips  mortared  with  clay  and  horsehair.  Buzzards-or  was  it  their  shadows-  careened  against  the  iron  gates  of  the  Sacred  Heart  Academy,  where  except  for  him  the  child  would  be  going  to  school.  Whenever  he  thought  of  this,  he  started  to  explain  to  a  host  of  name-  less  judges  who  could  never  under-  stand.  Sometimes  he  said  one  thing  and  sometimes  another,  as  if  he  him-  self  was  not  sure.  No,  he  was  not  sure.  But  he  was  living  harmlessly,  teaching  the  child  the  Faith.  It  is  all  my  father  asked  of  me,  and  it's  silly  and  all  that,  but  the  only  link  between  the  genera-  tions.  Faith.  His  words  sounded  poorly  put  together,  unheard.  ALTHOUGH  it  was  still  January,  the  buds  of  the  maples  and  for-  sythia  were  swelling  for  the  spring.  On  a  particular  morning,  when  he  awoke,  there  was  the  faint  sense  of  change.  It  was  not  just  the  season.  The  farm  and  everything  on  it  had  moved  overnight  into  a  somewhat  dif-  " b"ferent  perspective  in  his  mind.  It  was  a  dark  and  windy  scene  from  the  little  east  window,  with  fresh  snow.  Af-  ter  he  dressed  and  wrapped  the  child  snugly  so  that  only  her  face  could  get  cold,  he  banked  the  fire  and  they  set  out  for  the  barn.  The  air  seemed  vaguely  threatening.  A  few  venturesome  cows  were  already  sniffing  the  bunkers,  afraid  they  had  overlooked  a  bite  of  last  night's  feed.  The  farmer  had  not  come  out,  although  it  was  getting  late.  They  would  proceed  with  the  work  as  usual,  and  then  go  see  about  him.  The  wind  was  blow-  ing  the  snow  so  hard  they  had  to  squint  to  see.  Rows  of  sparrows  perched  under  the  eaves  of  the  barn,  looking  vexed  and  hungry.  After  the  last  of  the  troughs  had  been  filled  with  steam-  ing  silage,  he  straight-  ened  the  child  on  his  shoulders  and  stepped  off  the  hundred  or  so  yards  to  the  farm-  house.  The  pickup  was  not  there,  and  he  did  not  even  see  where  it  had  been  parked  during  the  night.  The  faint  blue  of  the  television,  which  he  had  usually  noticed  from  this  angle,  was  not  there.  He  found  the  back  of  the  house  unlocked.  The  enclosed  porch  was  neat  with  boots  and  um-  brellas  and  bushels  of  potatoes.  On  the  kitchen  table  a  meal  had  been  served.  There  was  a  ham,  partly  sliced,  dishes  of  macaroni  and  applesauce.  The  television  set  had  been  removed  and  a  rectangle  of  dust  was  exposed.  With  the  child's  head  almost  brush-  ing  the  ceiling,  he  strode  through  the  small  rooms  with  their  potted  plants  and  old  folks'  stale  aroma.  Pictures  of  Jesus  and  George  Wash-  ington  hung  high  on  the  flowered  wallpaper.  The  only  sign  of  disorder  was  a  silver  teaspoon  dropped  on  the  braided  rug.  What  happened  here  last  night'  A  telephone  inquiry  and  the  police  would  want  to  know  who  was  speaking.  The  hired  man-the  tenant.  He'd  be  done  for.  He  thought  of  West  [REDACTED].  He  could  carry  the  child  and  a  few  sup-  plies,  get  up  on  the  ridges  early.  But  this  was  mad-almost  an  admission  of  guilt.  No,  if  he  had  to  leave,  he  had  better  head  east.  Somebody  would  need  a  butler.  People  on  those  estates  would  know  that  a  man  with  his  diction  .  would  hire  him  as  a  tutor  on  the  spot.  I  have  been  engaged  in  botanical  re-  search-a  threatened  wild  flower-  and  now  I  am  freeto  teach.  Which     one,  if  they  had  to  know?  All  he  could  think  of  was  the  marsh  pink,  and  it  wouldn't  grow  around  here.  People  at  large  these  days  had  outrageous  infor-  mation.  He  cowered  at  the  thought  of  leaving  home.  As  they  left  the  farmhouse,  he  be-  came  increasingly  nervous.  His  heart  raced  as  if  it  was  going  into  fibrilla-  tion.  The  wind  had  died,  and  a  fog,  ice  fog,  was  taking  its  place.  He  heard  himself  speaking  reassuringly  to  the  child  in  the  queer  gray  air,  when  sud-  denly  he  was  turning  back  to  the  farmer's  house.  In  the  kitchen  he  found  paper  and  pencil  to  write  a  note,  sayinghe  had  fed  the  cattle,  saying  he  would  be  back  at  the  cabin.  He  propped  this  on  the  table,  upright  against  the  ham.  Then  he  thought  to  look  in  the  medicine  cabinet  in  the  bathroom  in  case  there  were  tranquil-  " b"lizers.  There  was  a  bottle  of  Percodan  four-and-a-halfs  and  he  put  two  of  the  tablets  into  his  mouth,  chewing  hast-  ily,  stuffing  the  bottle  into  his  pocket.  Back  in  the  cabin,  he  remembered  sipping  beer  and  praying.  Father,  don't  make  us  leave  here.  He  felt  his  pulse  and  it  was  calming  down.  Ho-  sanna  in  excelsis.  Benedictus  gui  venit  in  nomine  Domini.  He  slept  deeply,  got  upand  fed  the  child,  and  drank  more  beer.  Toward  afternoon  his  head  cleared,  and  he  built  up  the  fire  and  put  a  squash  to  bake  in  the  coals.  He  needed  to  re-  member  something-a  garbled  con-  versation-but  with  whom?  He  would  ask  the  child  to  tell  him.  Just  then  he  saw  the  white  card  of  the  state  police  and  remembered  taking  it  from  them.  Yes,  they  had  come  to  the  door,  two  troopers,  wafer  thin,  and  had  stood  with  their  uniformed  backs  against  the  fog.  They  wanted  to  know  if  he  would  agree  to  look  after  the  cattle  until  arrangements  could  be  made  to  hold  an  auction.  The  farmer  and  his  wife  had  been  found  shot  in  their  truck  in  front  of  an  all-night  teller.  Aha.  The  story  was  catching  up  with  itself.  But  the  wife,  too-  And  how  had  his  manner  been?  A  little  formal,  perhaps,  but  not  too  formal.  Properly  accommodating.  He  would  be  glad  to  continue  looking  after  the  herd.  That  was  what  he  was  here  for.  He  recalled  distinctly  saying  that.  That  that  was  what  he  was  here  for.  The  only  odd  thing-why  had  he  shown  them  his  paychecks?  The  turtle  shell  had  been  taken  down  from  the  rafters  and  was  perched  on  a  rank  of  wood.  They  must  have  thought  he  was  crazy,  a  man  with  disdain  for  money.  Still,  under  the  circumstances  it  might  have  been  appropriate.  Sooner  or  later,  when  all  this  was  past  and  they  were  more  secure,  he  would  mourn  the  ailing  farmer,  let  his  essence  come  back,  the  little  squarish  eyes  and  blocky  cheeks.  Now  there  was  winter  to  worry  about.  So  they  wanted  him  right  here.  Creditors,  no  doubt.  When  the  cattle  were  sold  and  every-  thing  settled  up,  he  would  be  at  the  mercy  of  whoever  owned  the  gap.  Nobody  permitted  squatters.  But  may-  be  they  would  hire  him.  He  would  again  become  the  tenant.  He  fitted  the  child  into  her  wraps  and  kissed  the  top  of  her  head.  The  orphaned  herd  was  bellowing  for  its  silage. "