 b"ON  the  way  home,  Marian  O  stopped  to  see  Boss.  Walk-  ing,  she  said,  &quot;Going  to  see  Boss.  Must  see  Boss.&quot;  Her  concern  for  Boss  was  pure.  Only  at  the  place  where  her  concern  for  Boss  overlapped  her  concern  for  the  condition  of  her  office  skills  was  there  any  touch  of  selfishness.  She  reached  thebig  house  belonging  to  Boss.  It  began  to  rain.  She  did  not  ring  the  bell.  She  waited.  Marian  and  Boss  were  friends.  It  happened  one  night  when  there  was  great  pressure  of  work.  She  stayed.  Boss  was  putting  it  through.  Marian  stayed.  Later,  he  looked  up,  right  at  her.  Inside  the  house,  Haley  and  Tim  got  nervous.  Haley  thought  they  might  call  the  police.  Tim,  who  made     a  point  to  be  kinder  than  Haley  was,  said,  &quot;No.  No.&quot;  They  let  Marian  wait  in  the  rain.  Tim  tried  to  play  &quot;Engineer&quot;  but  didn't  have  the  heart  for  it.  At  half  past  ten  he  went  to  the  door.  Marian  had  her  head  against  the  jamb  and  didn't  say  anything.  Tim  wished  Haley  were  with  him.  He  felt  his  kind-  liness  go  away.  Still,  he  was  master  of  his  tone  of  voice.  &quot;Boss  doesn't  live  here  anymore,  Marian,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Boss?&quot;  Marian  said.  &quot;No,&quot;  Tim  said.  &quot;Boss,&quot;  Marian  said.  H  Way  Bic  Businzess  Is  Firmnmc  tur  Boss  Because  of  pressure-cooker   emerge  and  are  suppressed,  only  to  reappear.  The  human  capacities  are  dimmed,  only  to  reassert  in  newer  forms  appropriate  to  a  pressure-cooker  environment.  Increasingly,  boards  of  directors,  becoming  directly  concerned,  express  concern  as  a  factor  of  stress,  intervening  at  the  point  of  pressure,  requiring  and  needling.  Executive  Anxiety  Executives  are  under  stress.  Poor-  performance  ousters  are  common.  Small  dispersals  of  performance  cen-  ters,  with  their  quick-fix  methods,  have  strained  and  snapped.  More  and  more,  there  are  fewer  and  fewer.  Doc-  tors  note  increased  attacks-executive  firings  leading  to  heartbreak,  remorse,  broken  promises.  Fewer  presents  are  given.  Curtains  have  barely  time  to  be  changed.  Initials  on  doors  are  sad  and  neglected-reflecting,  in  many  cases,  rapid  changeover  from  previous  ill-remembered  juntas.  Who  remem-  bers  Harold  Marley?  Ken  Hervcoat's  name  is  just  a  shadow.  Jerry  Tuct?  Lawrence  Yuol?  To  name  just  a  few.  IV  Wuy  Bic  Business  Is  Firmmc  tur  Boss  (1)  He  began  toeat  with  his  fingers.  Possibly  because  of  a  need  to  relieve  stress  or  to  underline  and  emphasize  it,  he  had  large  amounts  of  food  avail-  able  at  all  times.  At  times,  he  refused  to  allow  old  food  to  be  taken  away.  At  times,  he  counted  exact  amounts  of  lamb,  potatoes,  eggplant  dishes,  then  pretended  to  leave  office.  After  a  time,  no  one  dared  touch  his  old  food.  (2)  Because  of  nervous  strain,  Boss  lost  his  grip  on  what  was  appropriate  story  material.  Boss  suggested  series  on  seven  women  detectives  who  de-  voured  raw  animal  innards.  (3)  He  was  a  thief.  We  have  this  on  videotape.  Our  tape  shows  Marian  go-  ing  into  his  office.  &quot;Anything  else  this  evening,  Boss?&quot;  Marian  leaves.  Then  Boss  crosses  office.  Stops,  looks  out.  Returns  to  desk.  Disrobes.  Puts  on  certain  items  not  appropriate  to  chief  executive  officer.  Then  over  these  puts  on  usual  clothes-big  jacket,  big  baggy  trousers.  Tiptoes  into  hall.  In  hall  (minicamera  got  this),  Boss  takes  silver  winner  medallion  off  wall,  using  a  blowtorch.  Audio:  &quot;I  want  this,  and  I'm  going  to  get  it.&quot;  " b"(4)  He  kept  the  car  waiting.  (5)  He  wore  women's  clothing.  V  Prersonar  Hisrory  Boss  was  born  in  a  mine.  He  looked  up-there  was  a  vein  of  deep-black  coal.  Early,  he  picked  up  the  knack  of  minerals,  could  tell  one  from  another.  His  early  finds  were:  Turlin  Basin,  Huyn  Overbelt.  Shamed  when  prices  fell,  he  went  to  train  himself  in  how  men  did  business  with  each  other.  Ironically,  commodities  have  enjoyed  big  upswing  while  Boss  falters.  VI  CHILDREN  Haley  and  Tim.  Haley  went  to  con-  vent  school  but  did  not  find  it  sympa-  thetic.  Tim  went  to  Dayline-presti-  gious  school.  Haley,  briefly  engaged,  brought  friend  home.  Tim  said,  &quot;You  can't  be  serious.&quot;  Tim  and  Haley  met  with  Boss.  Tim  said,  &quot;We  think  it  would  be  better  if  certain  assets-  house,  Wayfarer  II,  our  personal  ef-  fects  (nineteenth-century  furniture,  collection  of  Japanese  jade,  little  real  estate)-we  think  it  would  be  better  if  you  put  those  in  nonrevocable  life  trusts.&quot;  Haley  said,  &quot;Now.&quot;  VII  Growing  nervous,  Boss  began  to  spend  his  time  in  canyons,  subways,  places  under  the  earth.  Speculation  was:  (1)  at  first,  Shrewd,  shrewd.  What  does  Boss  see  there?;  (2)  later,  Don't  get  it;  (3)  fear.  Not  a  person  knew  the  simple  explanation.  Boss  liked  underground.  Boss  lost  ease  with  light.  In  office,  had  lights  re-  duced  to  tiny  glimmer.  Dim,  dim.  First  trouble  with  Marian:  forced  Marian  to  work  in  near-total  dark-  ness.  Impossible  for  Marian  to  write  letters,  etc.  Ingenious,  sheput  little  phosphorescent  things  on  telephone,  typewriter  keys,  etc.  Boss  screamed  from  inner  office,  &quot;Turn  those  off!&quot;  Poor  Marian,  tears  in  eyes,  stripped  little  phosphorescent  things  off  and  sat  in  the  dark.  She  could  hear  Boss  breathing  hard,  screaming  then,  then  sighing,  singing  old  songs.  She  grew  nervous.  VIII  One  of  the  songs  Boss  sang  was  &quot;Keery.&quot;  Scholars,  working  under  a  grant  from  the  J.  H.  Leepren  Fund,  have  shown  that  songs  like  &quot;Keery&quot;  and  &quot;Sunshine  John&quot;  have  close  equivalents  in  Welsh  sagas,  the  Elder  Edda,  etc.  &quot;Keery&quot;&quot;  goes:  Keery,  Keery,  Down.  Keery,  Keery,  Down.  On  Big  Sunday,  Keery  came  down.  Sally  shook  her  head.  Sally  shook  her  head.  Keery  came  down.  On  Big  Sunday,  Keery  came  down.  Boss  had  nice  baritone.  Marian,  loving  Boss,  sang  harmony  under  her  breath,  in  the  dark.  IX  Wuy  BiG  Business  Is  Firmc  tur  Boss  Boss  moved  headquarters  staff  to  tent  city.  Boss  employed  too  many  body-  guards:  Rafael,  Bongo,  and  Hurf.  Hurf  had  enormous  arms,  into  which  he  had  twined  small  bits  of  barbed  wire  and  glass.  Hurf  was  wanted  in  many  states.  Bongo  no  onecan  speak  of.  Bongo  and  Hurf  terrorized  tent  city,  setting  up  white-slave  trade,  drug-related  information  cen-  ters  (just  a  cover),  and  kill-for-hire  services.  Boss  took  up  with  Hilda.  Boss  walked  down  hall.  Kept  car  waiting.  Driving  to  tent  city,  he  stuck  his  hands  under  his  arms.  Suddenly  cold,  he  ordered  driver  to  stop.  Hurf  got  out  (this  was  near  Pelham),  went  into  nearest  house.  Screaming  woman  ran  out.  Bongo  just  smiled.  Hurf  came  out  with  blankets  for  Boss.  Boss  said,  &quot;Still  cold.&quot;  Hurf  killed  sheep  so  Boss  could  keep  warm. "