 b"YOUR  old  man's  one  of  those  i  stick-waving  teachers.&quot;  That  was  the  first  thing  Jonah  Har-  rell  heard  the  new  girl,  Mossie  Dab-  ney,  say  to  his  daughter.  As  a  band  instructor,  Jonah  divides  his  schedule  between  two  schools  in  the  county-  stick  waving  and  counting.  &quot;To  two,  tothree,  sometimes  to  four,&quot;  he  says  in  cheerful  self-effacement.  Having  worked  around  children,  Jonah  believes  his  daughter,  Sandra,  at  thirteen,  is  in  a  pivotal  year-'&quot;at  that  stage  when  their  bodies  know  more  than  their  minds,  and  every  little  lad's  a  drummer  boy.&quot;  The  floorboards  throb  under  Sandra's  stereo,  her  laughter  pours  into  the  phone,  doors  slam  front  and  back,  rattling  the  win-  dows.  Jonah  hears  his  house  vibrate  like  a  percussion  instrument.  &quot;Bedlam  or  just  normal?&quot;  his  wife,  Reah,  asks.  &quot;Both,&quot;  Jonah  says.  The  new  family,  the  Dabneys,  ar-  rived  in  Worton,  [REDACTED],  on  a  mid-  summer  Saturday.  By  the  afternoon,  they'd  finished  one  of  the  &quot;Adventures  in  Moving&quot;  advertised  on  the  side  of  their  rental  trailer.  They  had  un-  packed  and  were  completely  moved  in.  A  few  children  rode  up  on  bicycles  to  see  if  the  girl,  who  was  said  to  be  eleven,  was  going  to  be  someone  to  play  with,.  Adults  watched  from  a  dis-  tance  and  decided  the  two  little  boys  must  use  the  same  bed.  The  specula-  tion  was:  husband  and  wife  in  the  oak  double;  the  girl,  who  looked  a  lot  older  than  eleven,  in  the  queen-size  with  the  rose  decal  on  the  headboard;  and  the  small  boys  sharing  the  cast-iron  frame  with  the  little  coil  springs  that  sup-  ported  a  wire  mesh  under  the  mattress.  Mrs.  Crider,  who  felt  sorry  for  any-  one  who  was  &quot;naked  to  their  last  fork  and  spoon,&quot;  sent  her  little  boy,  Martin,  to  greet  the  Dabneys  with  a  welcome  basket  full  of  flowers  and  a  loaf  of  her  own  oatmeal  bread  still  warm  from  the  oven.  &quot;The  woman  told  me  charity's  for  animals,&quot;  Martin  Crider  said,  re-  turning  with  the  basket.  He  told  how  she  had  broken  the  bread  and  scattered  it  around  the  yard.  But  the  little  boys  were  eating  it  off  the  ground  when  their  mother  wasn't  watching.  Martin  forgot  he  was  supposed  to  look  and  see  how  many  rooms  they  were  going  to  use.  The  Dabneys  are  beyond  the  church,  in  the  house  next  to  the  preacher's.  Theirs  is  the  only  rental  in  the  village.  Sunday,  the  girl  is  down  at  the  store.  &quot;My  name  is  Mossie  Dab-  ney,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;I  moved  here  from  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED].  My  father  never  worked  in  acoal  mine  and  he's  proud  of  it.  Cherry's  my  favorite  soda.&quot;  &quot;Children  get  acquainted  so  fast,&quot;  Reah  is  telling  Mrs.  Presnell  in  the  store,  while  outside  Mossie  explains  to  Martin  how  her  father  has  taught  her  everything  about  running  a  car,  from  the  jumper  cables  to  borrowing  the  license  plates.  &quot;The  girl  is  certainly  pretty,&quot;  Reah  says.  &quot;Very  developed.&quot;  Mrs.  Presnell  says  it's  too  bad  they  don't  have  enough  furniture;  Mr.  Rowland  offered  them  the  use  of  the  fourposter  that  was  just  collecting  mildew  in  his  basement,  and  the  woman  looked  at  him  as  if  she  didn't  know  what  he  was  talking  about.  Mossie  is  telling  Martin  Crider  and  Debbie  Granger,  who  has  just  come  from  church,  about  her  insect  collec-  tion.  &quot;It  goes  from  a  pissant  all  the  way  up  to  a  praying  mantis  and  has  everything  in  between  except  for  the  ladybug,  which  my  brothers  lost.&quot;  She  hardly  ever  has  to  smack  her  brothers,  Mossie  says,  &quot;because  they  better  do  what  I  tell  them.&quot;  Their  names  are  Handel  and  Presslie,  aged  five  and  four.  She's  going  to  race  them  to-  morrow,  she  says,  but  hasn't  time  to  explain,  because  her  father  is  shouting  to  her  from  the  car.  &quot;They  use  food  stamps,  you  know,&quot;  Mrs.  Presnell  says.  What  Paula  Rowland  has  heard  is  that  the  mother  works  cleaning  houses,  and  that  sometimes  she'll  leave  the  girl  to  babysit  the  little  ones  all  day.  &quot;What  Mr.  Rowland's  going  to  do,&quot;  Paula  says,  &quot;is  take  one  of  the  cots  out  of  the  attic  and  leave  it  by  the  dump,  so  whoever  takes  it  won't  feel  beholden.&quot;  LMOST  from  the  start  Mossie  Dabney  has  been  leader  of  her  age  group  and  of  some  boys  quite  a  bit  older.  One  week,  whoever  brought  her  the  most  wineberries  was  going  to  be  a     MAY  18,  1981  partner  in  her  frozen-fruit  business  and  alone  with  her  in  the  shed  some-  times  with  the  door  shut  and  the  win-  dows  covered.  Mossie  has  been  making  rules  for  a  lot  of  games.  There  are  baseball  players  in  the  village  who  will  let  her  set  narrow  foul  lines  for  an  afternoon  session  of  three  o'  cat.  But  pitchers  take  nothing  off  their  fastball  when  she  comes  to  bat.  The  Dabneys  had  come  from  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  without  any  schoolor  medi-  cal  records.  As  a  volunteer  driver  of  the  social-services  van,  Reah  was  the  one  who  took  Mossie  around  to  the  health  and  administrative  offices  to  get  her  officially  enrolled  and  her  house  put  on  the  school-bus  map.  The  worst  was  getting  the  inoculations.  Mossie  had  to  go  twice  for  that,  and  the  sec-  ond  time  she  had  to  be  held  still.  There's  always  a  moment  alone  in  a  treatment  room  before  the  doctor  comes  in.  Reah  believes  that's  when  Mossie  got  her  hypodermic  needle.  It  was  for  her  insect  collection.  &quot;I  make  up  this  juice,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;and  shoot  it  into  them.  And  they  throw  a  fit  and  die,  so  you  don't  have  to  squash  them.&quot;  Y  the  time  school  starts,  a  lot  of  the  community  has  heard  about  Mossie's  preference  for  boys  who  know  how  to  get  tingling  lips  but  don't  necessarily  want  to  touch  tongues.  First  day  on  the  bus  the  boys  are  arguing  John  Deere  versus  Ford  tractors,  so  Mossie  spends  most  of  the  ride  home  to  Worton  picking  at  the  wart  on  the  back  of  her  thumb.  &quot;Don't,&quot;  Sandra  says.  &quot;Oh,  gross.&quot;  The  little  flap  of  tissue  is  loose,  and  Mossie  is  trying  to  slice  it  in  half.  &quot;It's  like  a  tick,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;It's  hard  to  cut  it  with  your  fingernail.&quot;  IT\xe2\x80\x99S  not  just  the  kissing  business  Reah  worries  about  but  all  the  un-  chaperoned  hours.  Besides,  she  knows  the  Dabney  children  are  allowed  to  sip  beer  on  special  occasions  like  birthdays  and  all  of  Labor  Day  weekend.  Mossie  puts  her  brothers  inraces,  the  chubby  Handel  on  foot  against  the  younger  Presslie  on  his  Big  Wheel,  which  makes  it  close.  You  pay  Mossie  a  nickel  to  bet  on  one  of  them.  Then,  too,  she  has  collected  some  change  here  and  there  by  making  Presslie  get  under  a  blanket  in  the  Harrells'  pram  and  letting  some  of  the  girls  push  him  up  and  down  the  road.  She's  taught  him  how  to  cry  and  then  be  pacified  " b" by  the  paying  mothers.  Mrs.  Crider,  who  wants  to  do  the  right  thing,  and  Paula  Row-  land  have  called  Reah  over  to  look  at  a  petition  to  the  Dabneys'  land-  lord.  &quot;You  expect  me  to  sign  that?&quot;  Reah  says.  \xc2\xab&quot;Well,  I  didn't  think  you  would,&quot;  Paula  ad-  mits.  &quot;But  we  can't  just  ignore  them,&quot;  and  she  begins  to  tick  off  grievances:  e  The  loss  of  sand  from  the  pile  Mr.  Rowland  was  saving  for  mortar.  She  happens  to  know  the  two  little  boys  have  been  carrying  it  by  the  baseball-capful  to  their  own  yard.  &amp;  The  noise  on  Sun-  days,  with  them  yelling  right  under  the  church  windows.  e  The  danger  they  pre-  sent  to  themselves,  play-  ing  in  the  road,  no  mat-  ter  how  many  times  they've  been  told.  e  The  ruined  rectory  flower  bed.  *  The  screaming  up  and  down  the  road  and  the  dreadful  way  their  father  yells  at  them.  &quot;You  know  what  they  did  with  the  cot,  don't  you?&quot;  Reah  knows.  Mossie  painted  colored  circles  on  the  cot's  canvas,  set  it  up  in  front  of  a  hay  bale,  and  has  been  using  it  for  back-yard  archery  practice.  Stray  arrows  have  hit  the  church.  &quot;It's  shot  full  of  holes,&quot;  Paula  adds.  When  she  starts  to  discuss  the  girl,  Reah  walks  out  of  the  meeting.  &quot;Lord  knows  what  kind  of  jumbled-up  sleep-  ing  arrangements  they  have,&quot;  Paula  calls  after  her.  &quot;None  of  her  damn  buginess,&quot;  Reah  says  under  her  breath.  At  home  she  tells  Jonah  how  Paula  wants  to  send  the  Dabneys  on  another  &quot;adventure  in  moving.&quot;  And  Jonah  says  next  time  the  Dabneys'  neighbors  ought  to  wipe  that  slogan  off  their  rental  trailer  and  replace  it  with  &quot;Give  this  family  a  berth.  A  wide  one.&quot;  osstE  has  said  something  awful  to  Sandra-something  really  filthy.  And  she  called  Jonah  a  &quot;stick-waving  teacher&quot;  again.  Sandra  says  she  tries  to  ignore  it  but  she  can't,  because  Mossie  sits  right  beside  her  on  the  bus.  Yesterday  Mossie  had  her  insect  collection  with  her  in  a  shoebox.  It  was  going  to  be  her  science  project,  and  she  was  demonstrating  for  Sandra  how  the  head  of  the  praying  mantis  could  be  rotated.  &quot;It  will  pass,&quot;  Reah  predicts.  Jo-  nah,  annoyed  with  that  kind  of  useless  wisdom,  thinks  not.  He  has  begun  to  spy  on  Mossie  at  school,  watching  her  through  the  one-way  glass  of  the  classroom  doors,  observing  her  on  the  playground.  He's  on  the  lookout  for  the  furtive  shove,  the  surreptitious  glance  of  a  troublemaker,  the  roving  fingers  of  a  thief.  At  bells  between  classes  Mossie's  clique  gathers  around  her-bright,  happy  girls,  who  follow  her  through  the  halls.  Her  clothes  and  grammar,  which  seem  a  little  tawdry  in  Worton,  blend  nicely  in  the  school  building,  where  ancient  denim  is  no  disgrace  and  &quot;ain't&quot;  is  the  ordinary  citizen's  negative.  It's  Sandra,  a  little  too  cor-  rect,  who  stands  out. Without  permission,  against  regula-  tions,  Jonah  examines  Mossie's  school  file.  A  note  explains  her  arrival  from  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  without  birth  certifi-  cate.  The  parents  were  unable  to  pro-  vide  her  school  history.  A  Mrs.  Jonah  Harrell  helped  with  the  application.  Mossie  scored  reasonably  well  on  her  aptitude  tests  and  her  grades  are  aver-  age.  A  science  teacher  has  commended  her  initiative.  Scanning  her  medical  sheet,  Jonah  is  relieved,  even  a  little  surprised,  to  see  proof  that  Mossie  is  not  yet  a  woman.  He  moves  down  to  the  common  childhood  diseases.  She  has  had  them.  &quot;Her  age  at  onset  isn't  our  con-  cern,&quot;  Reah  reproaches  Jonah  later.  &quot;Or  how  many  beds  her  family  sleeps  in.&quot;  ossir  announces  a  slumber  party,  and  Reah  has  to  laugh  at  her-  self  when  she  says,  &quot;But,  my  God,  what  will  they  all  sleep  on?&quot;  Sandra  insists  she's  going  to  the  party,  though  Reah  has  told  her  she  isn't.  Then,  when  Paula  Rowland  asks  if  she'd  let  a  daughter  of  hers  spend  a  night  in  " b"that  house,  Reah  reverses  herself  and  says  yes.  At  one  point  Mossie  says  she  never  invited  Sandra  in  the  first  place.  Reah  thinks  it's  because  her  feelings  were  hurt  when  Sandra  said  she  wasn't  sure  she  could  come.  Later,  when  Mossie  says  yes,  she's  invited,  Sandra  isn't  sure  she  wants  to  go  anymore.  Mossie  has  been  telling  people  at  school  that  Jonah  is  weird,  that  he  watches  her,  that  he  ought  to  just  wave  his  stick,  like  he's  paid  to  do.  The  night  of  the  party,  it  is  too  cold  for  the  cotton  nightshirt  Sandra  planned  to  wear.  &quot;Bathrobe  and  slip-  per  socks  or  you're  not  going  at  [REDACTED];  Reah  tells  her.  Listening  in  on  the  upstairs  phone,  Sandra  hears  her  mother  make  Mrs.  Granger  promise  that  Debbie  will  take  her  bathrobe,  too.  &quot;We'll  look  like  freaks,&quot;  Sandra  shouts  down  the  stairs.  Mrs.  Crider  has  called  twice;  first  to  saythe  Dab-  neys'  electricity  has  been  cut  off,  then  to  tell  Reah  there  are  mattresses  all  over  the  living-room  floor.  With  Sandra  gone,  Jonah  is  reading  late.  His  eyes  are  skipping  forward  and  back  of  his  comprehension.  Reah  taps  on  the  floor  over  his  den,  then  calls  through  the  vent,  &quot;What  are  you  waiting  up  for?  She's  not  coming  home.&quot;  Jonah  is  wondering  why  they've  condescended  to  offer  their  daughter  up  to  the  Dabneys  and  their  lightless  house.  He  stirs  himself  to  climb  the  stairs  and  argue.  &quot;You  call  me  patronizing?&quot;  Reah  says  when  he  tells  her  what  he  thinks.  &quot;You,  with  your  little  educational  ses-  sions?&quot;  She  means  times  like  Hallow-  een,  when  Jonah  read  to  Mossie  from  the  encyclopedia.  &quot;Was  it  to  keep  your  tires  from  going  flat  on  mischief  night,  or  what?&quot;  &quot;It  was  after  Halloween,&quot;  Jonah  says.  He  remembers  because  the  faces  on  leftover  pumpkins  in  the  village  had  begun  to  collapse,  like  old  men  with  their  false  teeth  out.  He'd  been  reading  to  Mossie  and  Sandra  about  All  Saints'  Day,  trying  to  invest  the  night  of  their  sugar  greed  and  toilet-  papered  branches  with  the  religious  fervor  of  its  origin.  And  he'd  failed.  Mossie  had  shrugged  and  gone  back  to  swapping  from  her  depleted  candy  bag.  &quot;Mossie  was  tricked  out  as  a  wom-  an,&quot;  Jonah  says.  &quot;Not  that  it  took  much  trickery.  And  you  felt  the  same  way  I  did  when  she  knocked  on  the   door-surprised  to  see  a  woman  beg-  ging  candy.&quot;  &quot;It's  the  rings  under  her  eyes,&quot;  Reah  says.  &quot;That  comes  from  not  get-  ting  enough  sleep.  Maybe  not  getting  to  sleep  in  her  own  bed.&quot;  &quot;Bed,&quot;  Jonah  says  and  nods.  But  Reah  isn't  finished.  &quot;Her  mother  calls  her  'slut'  in  front  of  the  neighbors.  Her  father  yells  at  her  to  keep  the  little  boys  out  of  the  road.  Is  it  so  wrong  to  let  our  children  share  one  night  with  her?&quot;  &quot;Patron,  patron,  patron.&quot;  Jonah's  soft  singsong  in  Reah's  ear  poisons  another  embrace.  &quot;So  tell  me,  what  do  you  do  at  a  slumber  party?&quot;  &quot;What  you  do,&quot;  Reah  says,  &quot;is  get  a  punch  bowl,  fill  it  with  two  quarts  of  ice  cream,  pour  ginger  ale  over  it,  and  everybody  sips  it  through  their  own  straw.  You  talk  about  why  you  don't  like  your  boyfriend.  You  show  where  you  put  adhesive  tape  on  your  leg  so  your  suntan  surrounds  his  initials.  Maybe  your  hair  is  up  in  curlers.&quot;  Unable  to  imagine  any  ofthese  things  happening  at  Mossie's  house,  Reah  re-     -Dave  Smtr  lents.  &quot;Sandra  has  to  learn  for  her-  self,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;Has  to  build  up  her  own  resistance.&quot;  JONAH  is  trying  to  hold  Sandra  still.  She's  frantic,  screaming.  Reah  tells  him  to  get  out  of  the  room-that  she'll  do  the  looking.  Sandra's  legs  are  covered  with  flea  bites;  the  needle  hole  must  be  hidden  among  them.  &quot;Where  is  it,  darling?&quot;  she  asks.  &quot;It  itches  all  over,&quot;  Sandra  whim-  pers.  &quot;We  didn't  sleep  at  all.&quot;  Reah,  going  for  witch  hazel,  whispers  to  Jonah  in  the  hall.  She  wants  him  to  phone  the  Grangers  and  ask  if  Deb-  bie's  all  right.  It's  3  a.m.  &quot;They  already  called,&quot;  Jonah  says.  &quot;They're  takingher  in  as  soon  as  the  doctor's  office  opens.  The  Kearns  girl  is  O.K.  Her  mother  doesn't  think  any-  thing  happened  to  her.  The  Dabneys  aren't  home.  An  ambulance  came  for  one  of  the  little  boys,  and  the  rest  of  the  family  got  in  their  car  and  fol-  lowed  to  the  hospital.&quot;  Sandra  says  she  doesn't  know  why  she  took  the  shot.  She  says  Mossie  kept  saying  it  was  for  &quot;the  immunity.&quot;  But  there  was  nothing  in  the  needle.  Now  she  knows  that  &quot;nothing&quot;  could  have  been  more  dangerous  than  the  sugar  water  Mossie  let  Debbie  inject  in  her  arm  to  prove  it  wouldn't  hurt,  or  whatever  it  was  Mossiehad  put  in  her  brother  Presslie's  thigh.  Jonah  thinks  it  must  have  been  too  dark  in  the  candlelit  house  for  the  " b"children  to  be  sure  what  was  happen-  ing.  Mossie  playing  doctor  might  have  casually  snuck  the  needle  under  their  skins  more  than  once,  perhaps  after  some  of  them  had  dozed  off.  Later  that  morning,  theyhear  little  Presslie  is  alive,  though  the  doctors  say  it's  a  wonder,  because  the  child's  heart  stopped  beating  twice-once  for  a  whole  minute.  Odd,  they  thought,  that  theneedle  could  have  found  a  vein.  Even  more  surprising  that  enough  air  could  have  been  injected  to  hurt  him.  &quot;Alive,&quot;  Jonah  says  later  the  same  day,  watching  from  his  window.  &quot;And  racing  down  the  middle  of  the  road  on  his  tricycle,  trying  to  get  himself  killed.&quot;  SANDRA,  in  her  room,  is  refusing  to  go  to  school  and  wondering  if  there's  an  air  bubble  locked  away  in     one  of  her  veins,  waiting  to  attack  her  heart.  &quot;She'snot  mad  at  you,&quot;  Reah  tells  Jonah.  &quot;It's  the  shot  she's  ashamed  of.  Letting  herself  be  trickedthat  way,  and  then  finding  out  it  might  have  killed  her.  She's  eating  again.  She'll  get  over  it.&quot;  Jonah  likes  thinking  of  it  this  way  -Sandra  taking  nourishment  in  her  brown  study,  immunized  and  building  antibodies.  Too  quick  a  recovery  would  only  mean  the  inoculation  hadn't  taken.  He  thinks  her  complaint  of  itchiness  between  the  fingers  could  very  wellbe  scabies  contracted  at  the  slumber  party.  Reah  has  putout  the  medicated  soap  and  shampoo,  just  in  case.  NOW  Sandra  has  everyone  wor-  ried  again.  Pale  and  haggard  in  the  face,  she's  broken  out  with  arash  on  her  chest.  Hives  is  Reah's  first  thought-maybe  an  emotional  reac-  tion  to  all  that's  happened.  &quot;What  we're  waiting  for  here,&quot;  Jo-  nah  reminds  her,  &quot;is  a  hepatitis  epi-  demic.&quot;  There's  a  little  fever,  and  the  doctor  has  been  called  again.  A  wave  of  red  is  advancing  up  Sandra's  neck  and  down  her  arms.  It's  apparent  on  her  upper  legs,  too.  If  you  look  closely,  what  you  see  is  hundreds  of  tiny  red  circles,  dark  in  the  middle,  like  so  many  needle  pricks.  Moving  from  the  center  of  the  spots,  the  color  fades  to  pink.  Over  a  large  surface  the  effect  is  an  alarm-  ing  dappled  russet.  The  doctor  is  calling  it  measles.  Sandra  is  staying  home  whether  she  wants  to  or  not,  and  chil-  dren  are  going  to  have  to  stay  away  from  her  room.  Mrs.  Granger  calls  to  say  Debbie  has  it,  and  the  Kearns  girl,  too.  The  " b"Dabneys  have  been  told,  but  their  chil-  dren  are  still  loose  in  the  village.  From  the  kitchen,  Jonah  and  Reah  can  see  them  preparing  for  another  activity.  Mossie  has  blocked  off  a  section  of  road  with  Mr.  Rowland's  sawhorses.  Obstacles  are  placed  be-  tween  the  barriers  for  a  skateboard  slalom.  [REDACTED].  Rowranp  says  he  isn't  accus-  ing  anyone  of  stealing  the  saw-  horses,  he  just  wants  them  returned.  But  they  sit  in  the  ditch  by  the  road  for  a  day-until  they  belong  to  no  one,  and  Mossie  carries  them  up  to  her  yard.  When  Mr.  Rowland  hears  about  it,  it's  too  late.  The  trestles  have  been  dismantled  and  their  legs  have  become  the  legsof  something  else  Mossie  is  building.  Her  lumber,  not  all  of  it  scrap,  is  coming  from  several  back  yards.  The  full  sheet  of  plywood  that  used  to  be  tacked  against  the  Harrells'  shed  hap-  pened  to  be  more  like  part  of  the  wall  than  a  discard,  but  Jonah  isn't  going  to  say  anything  about  it.  &quot;It's  a  bed.  She's  making  a  bed!&quot;  Reah  exclaims  as  they're  driving  past  the  Dabneys'  yard.  &quot;'That  takes  gump-  tion.  Look,  she's  got  some  of  the  boys  helping  her.&quot;  &quot;Plywood  is  four  by  eight.&quot;  Jonah  calculates.  &quot;Thirty-two  square  feet  of  bed.  She'll  never  get  it  up  the  stairs.&quot;  But  next  day  the  new  bed  is  some-  where  inside  the  house.  BEF  ORE  Sandra  has  fully  recov-  ered,  there's  a  rumor  the  Dabneys  are  leaving  Worton.  Not  true.  They  are  having  a  house-and-yard  sale,  but  they're  not  moving-just  raising  gro-  cery  money.  The  sale  is  to  be  Sunday.  But  what  will  they  sell?  &quot;Odds  and  ends  the  children  have  'found'  around  the  village,&quot;  Jonah  suggests.  &quot;Don't  be  like  that,&quot;  Reah  tells  him.  Sunday,  almost  everyone  is  at  the  sale-even  Mrs.  Crider's  mother,  who  can't  get  up  and  down  stairs.  Reah,  looking  for  the  hypodermic,  is  going  to  steal  it  back  if  she  gets  the  chance.  She  thinks  someone-the  police  or  Mossie's  parents-should  have  confis-  cated  it  before  now.  People  aren't  be-  ing  very  subtle,  she's  afraid.  Mrs.  Dabney  must  have  overheard  Paula  Rowland  say  the  garden  shears  on  the  table  outside  looked  just  like  the  ones  she'd  lost.  Upstairs,  a  group  is  standing  around  the  little  iron  bed.  The  brass  knobs  have  been  polished,  and  it's  agreed  the  price  is  reasonable  for  what  certainly  looks  like  an  antique.  &quot;But  if  they're  selling  it,&quot;&quot;  Mr.  Rowland  says,  &quot;they're  right  back  where  they  started.  Five  bodies,  three  beds.&quot;  People  are  still  circulat-  ing  through  the  rooms,  and  there  are  a  few  in  the  yard.  Reah  has  found  the  needle;  it's  in  her  purse  now.  She  can  hear  Mrs.  Crider's  mother  in  the  front  hall  repeating,  &quot;She's  a  better  housekeeper  than  I  ever  imagined.&quot;&quot;  Mrs.  Crider  can't  hush  her.  Suddenly  Mossie  appears  in  the  front  door.  &quot;'There's  a  thief  in  this  house!&quot;  she  announces.  ''*Nobody  leaves  until  he  puts  back  what  he  stole.&quot;  She  spreads  her  arms  wide  as  people  make  ready  to  leave  right  away.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Dab-  ney  come  out  of  the  kitchen,  where  they  have  been  standing  in  shy  re-  treat  by  the  cashbox,  and  Mossie  has  to  give  up  her  blockade  of  the  doorway.  At  home,  Jonah  wants  to  know  what  Reah  in-  tends  to  do  with  it.  The  needle,  she  says,  is  already  under  the  sink  in  a  plastic  trash  bag  done  up  with  a  twist  tie.  Tomorrow  she's  going  to  throw  the  bag  on  the  garbage  truck  her-  self.  &quot;Look,&quot;  Jonah  says,  at  the  window.  &quot;Here  they  come  again.&quot;  Mossie-her  brothers  in  tow-is  coming  down  the  road;  she's  stopping  at  each  door,  ask-  ing  something.  &quot;What  does  she  want  this  time?&quot;  Reah  wonders.  &quot;What  are  you  going  to  tell  her?&quot;  Jonah  asks.  From  far  down  the  road  they  can  hear  Mossie's  father  yelling  at  her.  &quot;Get  those  children  back  here.  There's  measles  all  over  down  there.&quot;  Mossie  is  riding  Sandra's  two-  wheeler  now,  pedalling  through  the  village,  watching  Jonah  and  his  neighbors  retreat  into  their  quaran-  tined  homes. "