 b"A NEW  Administration  has  A  come  to  power,  and  many  556e6974656420537461746573ns  are  asking:  What  are  the  new  rules?  The  following  ex-  planation,  presented  inclear,  easy-to-  understand  language,  may  be  of  some  help  in  addressing  this  matter.  Q:  Are  there  new  rules?  A:  Yes,  there  are.  Q:  Will  I  have  difficulty  under-  standing  them?  A:  No.  Unlike  the  reality  to  which  they  refer  and  whose  activities  and  phenomena  they  govern,  the  new  rules  are  presented  in  clear,  easy-to-under-  stand  language.  Q:  Must  I  obey  them?  A:  Yes.  Their  nature  as  new  rules  is  such  that  all  to  whom  they  pertain  must  obey  them.  Like  the  old  rules,  they  pertain  to  everyone.  Q:  What  are  the  new  rules?  A:  A  complete  review  of  all  the  new  rules  would  be  beyond  the  scope  of  this  clear,  easy-to-understand  explanation.  However,  a  sampling  of  several  repre-  sentative  new  rules  will  make  clear  the  general  spirit  and  intent  of  the  entire  corpus  of  new  rules.  Money.  Money,  under  the  new  rules,  will  be  simultaneously  more  im-  portant  and  less  important  than  it  was  under  the  old  rules.  More  important  because  there  will  be  less  of  it  available  to  all  persons  subject  to  the  new  rules,  less  important  because  its  value  will  continue  to  decline.  Money  will  still  be  used  for  purchasing,  however,  and,  as  was  the  case  under  the  old  rules,  the  impossibility  of  purchasing  goods  and  services  will  continue  to  be  expressed  in  the  amount  of  money  required  for  their  purchase.  Some  556e6974656420537461746573ns  will  have  some  money,  and  will  be  able  to  purchase  goods  and  services.  Womrn.  Under  the  new  rules,  the  importance  of  women  will  remain  un-  changed.  However,  there  will  be  far  less  acknowledgment  of  that  impor-  tance.  Under  theold  rules,  the  role  of  men  was  one  thing,the  role  of  women  another,  Under  the  new  rules,  exactly  the  same  conditions  will  hold,  with  this  crucial  difference:  men  will  no  longer  be  required  to  pretend  that  women  have  an  important  role.  In  addition,  women  willbe  required  to  pretend  that  they  have  no  role  at  all.  [REDACTED].  To  those  who  complain  that  the  new  rules  are  nothing  more  than  the  old  rules  rewritten  in  clearer,  easier-to-understand  language,  the  ex-  ample  of  [REDACTED]  stands  as  a  decisive  rebuttal.  [REDACTED],  under  the  new  rules,  will  be  entirely  different.  Where  Mex-  ico  was  once  referred  toas  [REDACTED]'s  Neighbor  to  the  [REDACTED],  it  will  now  be  referred  to  as  [REDACTED]'s  Major  Source  of  Oil  for  the  Coming  Decades  to  the  [REDACTED].  Under  theold  rules,  [REDACTED]  was  ignored  or  insulted.  Under  the  new  rules,  this  will  be  absolutely  for-  bidden.  The  old-rule  homily  &quot;I  need  such-and-such  like  [REDACTED]  needs  chili  peppers&quot;  will  be  replaced  by  the  new-  rule  homily  &quot;We  need  [REDACTED].&quot;  Gop.  A  rule  is  only  as  new  as  the  reality  that  it  governs  permits  it  to  be.  And  no  truly  significant  reality  could  exist  for  very  long  without  the  support  of  God.  It  is  for  this  reason  that  God,  under  the  new  rules,  will  play  a  major  role.  [REDACTED]  crotTHErs.  The  new  rules  mandate  that  as  soon  as  possible,  and  from  then  on,  556e6974656420537461746573ns  shall  display  a  reawakened  fondness  for  nice  clothes.  Those  556e6974656420537461746573ns  able  to  pur-  chase  nice  clothes  with  money  will  be  encouraged  to  wear  them.  Under  the  new  rules,  it  will  be  left  to  the  wearer's  discretion  whether  he  or  she  will  wear  nice  clothes  with  a  con-  spicuously  displayed  attitude  of  re-  lief  that  it  is,  under  the  new  rules,  once  more  permissible  to  wear  nice  clothes.  FrErpom.  Like  the  people  who  constitute  it,  society  places  a  high  value  on  freedom,  as  do  the  rules.  There  are  two  kinds  of  freedoms:  freedom  fromm,  and  freedom  to.  And,  as is  traditional  in  [REDACTED],  the  new  rules  proclaim  admiration  for  both  these  kinds  of  freedom.  That  is  why  the  new  rules  entail  freedom  from  the  old  rules.  That  is  why  they  are  based  upon  freedom  to  make  the  new  rules.  No  one  should  doubt  that  under  the  new  rules  there  will  be  freedom.  T  must  be  remembered  that  the  new  rules  are  subject  to  change.  How-  ever,  the  supersession  of  any  present  new  rule  by  a  subsequent  rule  will  in  no  way  alter  the  superseded  rule's  sta-  tus  as  a  new  rule.  It  will  not  become  an  old  rule.  Moreover,  it  will  never  be  seen  to  have  been  an  old  rule.  It  will  remain  a  new  rule  albeit  thenceforth  in  the  mode  of  having-been-supersed-  ed.  The  superseding  rulewill  not  become  a  new  rule  but,  rather,  a  newer  rule.  It  should  be  apparent  that  the  new  rules,  as  exemplified  in  the  selection  above,  are  designed  to  create  a  better  society.  Naturally,  the  entire  corpus  of  new  rules  is  extensive,  and  covers  far  more  than  those  topics  dealt  with  in  the  above  six  samples.  (For  instance,  the  official  edition  of  the  new  rules  features  eighteen  different  rules  gov-  erning  the  use  of  the  word  &quot;fair.&quot;)  But  even  the  preceding  six  samples  give  an  indication  of  how  life  will  be  under  the  new  rules.  They  persua-  sively  demonstrate  that  society,  under  the  new  rules,  will  be  one  in  which  some  556e6974656420537461746573ns  enjoy  the  God-given  freedom  to  supply  their  women  with  money  for  nice  clothes  and,  at  the  same  time,  need  [REDACTED].  This  is  clear  and  easy  to  understand.   "