 b"THE  island  came  as  a  surprise  to  me,  because  I  had  thought  of  all  the  men  and  women  I  met  there  as  victims  of  misfortune.  I  had  only  their  proneness  to  fail  and  my  pes-  simism  to  account  for  this,  but  if  you  also  should  have  the  bad  luck  to  suffer  from  congenital  sadness  you  will  be  happy  to  know  that  they  are  contented,  healthy,  and  useful.  I  attribute  my  pes-  simism  to  the  fact  that  I  was  brought  up  in  [REDACTED],  where  the  fleeting  brilliance  of  a  career  as  an  entertainer  leavesa  vast  number  of  middle-aged,  and  even  younger,  casualties  changing  the  sheets  in  motels  and  pumping  gas.  &quot;Haven't  I  seen  you  before?&quot;  you  ask  the  man  who  wipes  your  windshield  in  thecar  wash,  and  it  turns  out  that  he  used  to  do  a  number  called  &quot;Three  Blind  Mice&quot;  on  national  television  when  he  was  five  years  old.  The  elder-  ly  woman  at  the  motel  check-in  once  danced  &quot;Les  Sylphides&quot;  in  the  Hol-  lywood  Bowl,  and  that  great  jazz  pianist  is  the  hopeless  drunk  in  the  corner.  I  had  thought,  from  my  begin-  nings,  that  fame  had  its  price  in  in-  famy  and  that  the  woman  with  the  really  marvellous  pair  of  legs-known  all  over  the  world-would  end  up  in  a  wheelchair  trying  to  sell  matches  in  a  snowstorm  outside  Sardi's  to  the  kind  of  skinflints  who  would  go  to  a  revival  of  &quot;Hedda  Gabler.&quot;  I  had  thought,  from  my  beginnings,  that  this  was  the  rule,  but  when  we  landed  that  day  on  the  island  I  saw  how  mistaken  I  had  been.  Here  they  all  were-the  greatest  trombonist,  the  movie  queen,  the  ball-  players,  trapeze  artists,  and  sexual  vir-  tuosos  of  yesterday-leading  happy  and  simple  lives.  We  were  travelling  from  Nassau  to  [REDACTED]  Sunderland's  place  in  the  Lesser  Antilles  in  Harry  Morton's  little  two-  motor  Fokker  when  we  had  some  en-  gine  trouble  and  had  to  stop  at  the  island  for  repairs.  We  were  not  there  long,  and  I  guess  it's  asmall  island,  although  I  never  learned  its  geog-  raphy.  The  climate  of  the  place  was  pleasant,  but  not  so  desirable  as  to  put  it  on  any  cruise  route  or  to  support  any  hotels,  Gale  winds  blew,  they  told  me,  in  April  and  May,  but  this  was  evidently  the  only  serious  inclemency.  The  population  seemed  happily  oc-  cupied  with  digging  and  trapping  shellfish,  weaving  baskets,  and  reading  the  classics.  I  have  no  idea  where  the  books  came  from,  but  they  seemed  to  be  in  good  condition.  Here  was  Sue  Shearing,  who,  when  the  lights  went  down  and  you  heard  the  first  notes  of  her  voice,  used  to  give  you  the  feeling  that  your  search  had  ended.  The  clubs  she  had  worked  all  over  the  world  were  shut  down  long  agoand  are  long  forgotten,  buthere  she  was,  as  love-  ly  as  ever.  Here  was  Dodie  Throck-  morton,  whose  combination  of  beauty  and  charm  was  so  stunning  that  when  Copley  Palamountain  took  her  to  the  races  in  Saratoga  he  couldn't  say  who  had  won  the  Travers.  Here,  throwing  around  a  softball,  were  three  .400  hit-  ters,  joking  with  Harry  Newman,  who  pitched  that  shutout  on  a  rainy,  windy  afternoon  in  St.  Louis  which  led  the  team  on  to  win  their  first  pennant.  Here  were  many  of  the  old  pro-foot-  ball  stars  you  would  have  imagined  to  be  selling  used  cars.  Here  was  Jennie  Tremaine,  whose  haunting  recording  of  &quot;Les  Oiseaux  Tristes&quot;  one  seemed  to  hear  everywhere.  You  even  heard  it  in  barbershops.  With  her  was  Laura  Bateson,  whose  representation  of  puri-  ty  and  innocence  in  the  plays  of  Henry  Pearson  led  one  to  believe  that  she  must,  through  disenchantment,  shoot  herself  through  the  heart  with  a  pearl-  handled  revolver  in  a  furnished  room  in  some  place  like  4974616c79,  Califor-  nia.  She  was  happily  combing  her  hair.  A  little  inshore,  playing  some  sort  of  card  game,  was  Henry  Pearson  himself,  with  several  of  yesterday's     novelists.  With  them  was  Thornton  Trencher,  that  drunken  poet  who  so  celebrated  chaos  that  one  would  have  expected  him  to  blow  off  the  top  of  his  head  with  a  12-gauge  shotgun.  He  seemed  quite  serene,  although  he  was  getting  fat.  You  wouldn't  believe  it,  you  wouldn't  believe  there  had  been  so  many.  There  was  Edsel  Milton,  the  great  percussionist,  who  used  to  claim  to  play  Shakespeare's  sonnets  on  his  drums.  There  was  Henri  Pleyel,  the  skier,  whose  slender  face  reminded  one  of  snow-buried  mountains  with  twelve-  inch  powder  on  a  forty-inch  base  and  no  wait  at  all  at  the  lift  station.  Here  were  yesterday's  beauties,  whom,  had  you  been  brought  up  in  [REDACTED],  you  would  have  imagined  to  be  pur-  suing  their  vanished  splendor,  stoned  on  alcohol  or  crucified  on  drugs.  There  were  even  some  great  prosti-  tutes  here,  a  little  heavy  and  unfresh  but  still  full  offun.  Lila  Brown,  cer-  tainly  the  most  famous,  seemed  to  be  carrying  on  a  flirtation  with  Olmstead  Curry,  who  was  our  ambassador  to  [REDACTED]  during  those  difficult  years  when  we  had  so  much  trouble  with  South  [REDACTED].  We  were  only  on  the  island  for  a  few  hours,  but  I  keep  thinking  about  this  little-known  place  where  everybody  was  having  such  an  easy  time  of  it,  reading  the  classics  and  eating  shellfish.  I  just  thought  you'd  like  to  know.  "