 b"WHEN  Kate  woke  up  in  the  morning,  the  first  thing  she  did  was  take  a  reading  to  de-  termine  whether  everything  was  O.K.  or  not.  This  was  not  a  conscious  act.  In  less  than  a  second-in  the  moment  between  sleep  and  full  awareness-she  could  tell  from  the  feeling  in  the  pit  of  her  stomach  whether  something  was  wrong.  She  first  started  doing  this  when  she  was  three,  waking  up  in  the  big  house  at  Brookside  in  the  summer-  time,  when  everything  was  always  O.K.,  with  the  exception  of  a  scratchy  throat,  or  the  nursemaid  going  on  va-  cation.  Now,  forty  years  later,  she  awakened  in  the  little  house,  on  the  same  place,  and  didn't  have  to  spend  any  time  figuring  out  what  was  wrong,  because  the  same  thing  had  been  wrong  for  eight  months:  her  cousin  Blake  Mitchell  was  dying.  Blake  was  her  cousin  and  also  her  oldest  friend.  Kate  got  right  out  of  bed,  before  she  had  a  chance  to  start  crying.  She  didn't  think  she  felt  things  more  deeply  than  others;  she  was  sim-  ply  an  easy  cry.  Her  eyes  would  well  with  tears  at  the  drop  of  a  sad  little  story  about  someone  she  didn't  even  know.  Blake  often  called  her  Mrs.  Gummidge.  One  afternoon  the  preceding  Octo-  ber,  the  phone  had  rung  in  Kate's  apartment  in  New  York.  Her  husband,  Tom,  was  at  work,  and  the  children  were  in  the  Park.  It  was  Blake  calling  from  his  law  office,  and  the  con-  versation  went  like  this:  &quot;Hello,  Kate,  it's  Blake.&quot;  Deliberate,  lawyerlike  tones,  as  though  he  were  about  to  tell  her  that  she  was  being  sued  for  divorce.  &quot;Hi.&quot;  One  of  the  three  words  Kate  ut-  tered  during  the  con-  versation.  &quot;I  want  you  to  know  that  I  went  to   a  bland  diet,  and  then  they're  going  to  operate  and  see  what's  what.&quot;  She  wondered  if  she'd  ever  be  able  to  look  at  him  again,  much  less  talk  to  him,without  blubbering.  &quot;I  gather  things  don't  look  exactly  great  even  before  they've  operated.  The  prognosis,  as  they  say,  is  not  good.&quot;  There  went  his  Old  Age  Plan,  He  intended  to  be  a  very  rich  old  man  in  a  wheelchair  with  a  series  of  beautiful  nurses,  whom  he  would  threaten  to  marry  whenever  the  family  gotout  of  line.  He  would  pinch  the  nurses  con-  stantly.  And  just  how  was  she  going  to  get  through  the  rest  of  her  life  without  him  totalk  to?  &quot;You  still  there?  You're  not  doing  a  Mrs.  Gummidge,  are  you?  Well,  just  cut  it  out-it's  my  esophagus  we're  talking  about,  for  Christ's  sake!&quot;  Tears  weren't  her  trouble.  She  just  couldn't  talk.  &quot;'Your  end  of  the  conversation  doesn't  seem  to  be  going  very  well,  so  I'll  hang  up,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Bye.&quot;  &quot;Thank  you,&quot;  Kate  managed  to  say,  and  hung  up.  Thaemkyou!  For  what?  It  was  a  throwback  to  child-  hood.  &quot;The  Lindbergh  baby  has  been  kidnapped.&quot;  Sorry,  Mother.  &quot;The  United  [REDACTED]  has  declared  war  on  Ja-  pan.&quot;  Thank  you,  Miss  Latham.       Kate  called  Tom,  and  sat  on  the  bed  until  he  came  home,  silent  and  looking  like  a  beagle.  He  stood  beside  her  with  his  hand  on  her  shoulder,  She  began  tocry.  She  cried  for  the  next  eight  months,  until  oneday  she  stopped.  It  was  as  though  the  supply  had  dried  up.  Two  weeks  after  the  phone  call,  Blake  was  operated  on-to  no  pur-  pose,  as  it  turned  out.  The  surgeon  told  him  that  he  had  from  six  months  to  a  year  to  live,  and  that  it  was  one  of  the  less  painful  cancer  deaths.  Blake  asked  that  nothing  be  done  to  prolong  his  life  and  everything  be  done  to  make  his  death  aspainless  as  possible.  The  doctors  honored  these  requests.  He  and  his  wife,  Louise,decided  on  their  stance  for  the  coming  months.  Their  stance  was  not  to  have  one.  His  law  firm  was  informed,  but  not  his  parents,  Kate's  Uncle  Walker  and  Aunt  Kitty.  This  bothered  Kate,  and  she  discussed  it  with  him  in  the  hospi-  tal.  He  said  that  he  would  never  be  able  to  talkto  his  mother  if  she  knew  he  was  dying.  He  could  manage  his  father,  but  not  his  mother.  &quot;They'll  catch  on  after  a  while,  and  then  what?&quot;  Kate  asked.  &quot;The  pretense  is  easierfor  me  than  the  truth,  for  I've  had  ex-peer-i-ence.  Look  at  our  whole  family-we're  good  at  pretending  things  don't  exist  when  they  do.  Or  do  when  they  don't.  Look  at  the  legal  pro-  fession.&quot;  &quot;They'll  be  devas-  tated  when  they  find  out  that  you  chose  not  to  tell  them,&quot;  Kate  said.  &quot;'You'll  have  to  handle  that,  because  I  won't  be  around,  and  they  would  think  it  wrong  to  raise  the  sub-  ject  with  Louise.&quot;  By  June,  Blake  was  no  longer  able  to  go  to  the  office,  and  he  and  Louise  and  the  chil-  dren  moved  to  Brook-  side.  BROOKSIDE,  a  fami-  ly  preserve  in  Dr.  Myers,and  I  have  stares  off  Contemplates  Cites  .B\xe2\x80\x98  verly  [REDACTED],  consisted  cancer.&quot;  into  space,  Ex  peri\xc2\xa2naces  of  four  houses  too  Kate  stared  at  not buildings.  A  dirt  road  ran  through  the  " b"property,  which  had  originally  belonged  to  their  Grandfather  Blake.  The  whole  compound  had  been  sold  to  him  for  a  dol-  lar,  in  settlement  of  a  bad  debt.  He  had  died  young,  and  the  place  was  sold  off  as  a  unit.  It  had  to  be;  the  houses  wereon  top  of  one  another.  In  1930,  Kate's  father,  James  Blake,  and  her  Aunt  Kitty  and  a  bach-  elor  uncle  bought  it  back.  Another  aunt,  Aunt  Emily,  the  rich  aunt,  owned  the  next  place  up  the  road.  All  the  houses  were  built  on  the  side  of  a  hill  overlooking  a  beau-  tiful,  unspoiled  valley.  Not  that  the  children  cared,  but  the  adults  talked  constantly  about  &quot;the  beautiful,  un-  spoiled  valley.&quot;  What  the  children  did  like  was  the  smell-of  the  air  and  of  the  houses  when  they  returned  each  summer.  Except  for  the  big  house,  which  had  been  a  boarding  house  in  the  interven-  ing  years,  the  buildings  were  in  poor  repair.  Kate  was  the  youngest  of  five  children,  and  that  first  summer  it  was  decided  that  her  father  and  mother  would  establish  themselves  in  the  big  house,  because  their  family  was  the  largest.  Aunts  and  uncles  would  then  stay  with  them  while  the  work  was  being  done  on  the  other  houses.  The  bachelor  uncle  chose  the  yellow  house,  withan  eye  to  providing  a  sum-  mer  retreat  for  his  motherand  aunts.  Aunt  Kitty  and  Uncle  Walker  took  the  stone  house.  Blake  was  then  a  baby.  The  little  house  was  done  over  for  Uncle  Walker's  mother,  al-  ways  referred  toas  Madam  Mitch-  ell,  as  opposed  to  Aunt  Kitty,  who  was  Mrs.  Mitchell.  It  was  done  over  for  Madam  Mitchell;  Madam  Mitchell's  companion,  Miss  Liedke;  Madam  Mitchell's  cook,  Daisy;  and  Madam  Mitchell's  English  chauffeur,  Arnold.  The  first  summer  no  work  was  done  on  the  houses.  Consultations  were  held  with  the  local  workmen.  The  bachelor  uncle  had  studied  architecture,  and     Uncle  Walker,  who  was  alawyer,  considered  himself  an  architect-with-  out-portfolio,  so  they  dispensed  with  hiring  an  architect.  The  bachelor  un-  cle's  idea  of  doing  over  a  house  was  to  arrange  the  rooms  as  agreeably  and  conveniently  as  possible;  Uncle  Walker's  idea  was  to  have  a  bathroom  for  every  member  of  the  household,  including  each  servant.  The  children  spent  the  mornings  of  that  first  sum-  mer  with  the  children  of  the  two  local  families  who  had  been  allowed  by  the  previous  owners  to  live  on  the  place.  After  lunch,they  walkedup  to  their  rich  aunt's.  She  had  a  pool,  and  a  pond,  and  a  canoe,  and  a  tennis  court,  and  a  putting  green,  and  a  fire  en-  gine,  and  that  took  care  of  the  after-  noons.  The  next  summer,  all  the  houses  were  occupied  by  family.  From  the  start,  the  place  really  belonged  to  the  Blakes.  The  in-laws  never  much  liked  it;  it  wasn't  their  turf.  Kate's  mother  preferred  the  sea,  as  did  Uncle  Walker  and  Madam  Mitchell.  Uncle  Walker  really  preferred  [REDACTED]  but  would  have  settled  for  the  sea.  They  tolerated  Brookside  because  the  children  loved  it.  T  he  lack  of  privacy  suited  them  fine.  If  you  didn't  like  the  atmosphere  in  your  own  house  for  any  reason,  you  could  go  over  to  another  house,  where  you  were  always  welcome.  The  grownups  always  had  time  for  chil-  dren.  Grandmother  Blake  dispensed  gumdrops  and  dollar  bills,  and  Madam  Mitchell  would  play  Russian  bank  any  time  of  the  day  or  evening.  She  played  to  win  no  matter  what  the  age  of  her  opponent.  Uncle  Walker's  philosophy  about  children  was  partly  intellectual:  he  felt  they  were  worth  spending  more  time  on  than  adults.  Among  other  things,  he  thought  no  child  should  have  to  go  upstairs  alone  to  bed.  He  would  always  accompany  Blake,  and  any  visiting  child,  and  read  or  talk  until  they  were  asleep.  Dinner  could  wait.  As  a  family,  the  Blakes  were  given  to  easily  hurt  feelings,  which  with  time  developed  into  full-blown  griev-  ances,  but  open  warfare  was  not  their  style.  The  Mitchells  suffered  from  no  such  fragility.  Madam  Mitchell,  Un-  cle  Walker,  and,  later,  Blake  would  engage  in  violent  arguments,  from  which  they  would  emerge  invigorated.  \xc2\xab&quot;Mother,  anyone  who  thinks  that  has  to  be  a  goddam  fool!&quot;  Uncle  Walker  " b"would  shout,  audible  to  everyone  on  the  front  lawn.  To  which  Madam  Mitchell  would  reply,  &quot;Surely,  Walker,  you  can  come  up  with  a  less  absurd  argument  than  that!&quot;  What  both  the  Blake  and  the  Mitch-  ell  families  had  in  common  was  hu-  mor.  They  were  funny,  and  they  liked  people  who  were  funny.  One  morn-  ing  when  Blake  was  four,  he  went  into  the  kitchen,  where  there  was  a  box  of  eggs  lying  open  on  the  table.  He  had  a  toy  hammer  in  his  hand  and  he  tapped  each  egg  on  the  top,  as  though  he  were  playing  the  xylo-  phone.  This  was  acknowledged  by  all  the  grownups  as  an  irresistible  im-  pulse.  Kate's  father's  finest  perfor-  mance  followed  a  trip  to  thebarber,  in  Canaan.  &quot;Well,  that's  the  last  time  I  go  to  that  barber.  I  thought  I  would  go  mad.  Snip,  snip,  snip-snip-snip,  snip-snip,  snip,  snip-snip-snip-snip,  snip,  snip,  snip-snip-snip,  snip,  snip,  snip-snip,  snip  ...&quot;  His  audience  on  the  front  lawn  had  begun  to  laugh  after  the  first  twenty  snips;  his  au-  dience  also  thought  he  would  stop.  He  didn't.  He  wouldn't  until  his  listen-  ers  felt  as  maddened  as  he  had.  It  was  at  the  beginning  of  that  sum-  mer  that  Aunt  Emily  gave  the  chil-  dren  a  [REDACTED]  pony  named  Topper.  Topper  came  with  a  pony  cart  and  all  the  proper  tack.  Kate's  father,  an  ac-  complished  horseman,  immediately  rented  a  horse  so  that  he  could  ride  with  the  children.  He  taught  them  how  to  ride-not  too  successfully  in  Kate's  case.  She  never  got  over  the  feeling  that  it  was  a  long  way  to  the  ground,  with  nothing  to  hold  on  to  except  two  strips  of  leather,  and,  if  she  was  desperate,  the  pony's  neck.  Top-  per  was  not  above  lying  down  when  the  spirit  moved  him.  He  was  also  given  to  bolting  back  to  the  barn.  Kate's  sisters  and  brothers  could  con-  trol  him,  but  both  Kate  and  Topper  were  fat,  and  Kate  didn't  have  much  leverage  on  Topper's  bulging  sides.  Blake  was  so  young  that  he  was  held  on  the  pony  by  a  grownup  while  some-  one  responsible  walked  Topper  on  a  lead.  Kate  would  look  on  enviously.  She  enjoyed  the  pony  most  when  he  was  pulling  the  cart.  Her  sisters  would  hitch  him  up,  and  they'd  all  climb  in  and  go  swimming  at  Aunt  Emily's.  From  time  to  time,  the  boys  would  push  Topper  into  the  girls'  bathhouse,  which  everyone  thought  very  funny.  Topper  spent  the  winters  in  the  charge  of  the  caretaker,  who  overfed  and  never  exercised  him,  and  he  grew  fatter  and  lazier  every  year.  He  was  a  fixture  in  their  lives,  and  they  loved  him.  S  children,  Kate  and  Blake  had  become  close  friends  because  they  were  the  youngest,  big  readers,  and  unathletic.  They  were  also  very  criti-  cal  of  everyone  and  everything  that  did  not  meet  with  their  total  approval.  By  the  time  they  were  in  their  teens,  Brookside  began  to  change.  The  grandmothers  died,of  old  age,  the  bachelor  uncle  married,  the  rich  aunt,  no  longer  rich  enough,  sold  her  place.  Kate's  mother  died,  her  brothers  and  sisters  married,  and  every  couple  of  years  the  occupants  of  the  houses     changed.  A  controversial  poolap-  peared  below  thestone  house.  There  was  a  taking-for-granted  that  was  re-  sented  by  the  older  generation.  The  outside  world  began  to  creep  in  after  the  Second  WorldWar,when  Blake  got  his  driver's  license.  Kate  had  a  friend  in  the  village  whose  par-  ents  were  willing  to  subsidize  a  sort  of  unofficial  open  house  every  night  of  the  week.  It  was  the  summer  after  the  war,  and  a  large  group  between  the  ages  of  sixteen  and  thirty  gathered  nearly  every  night.  Kateand  Blake  would  drive  home  sometime  between  one  and  four  in  the  morning,  in  second  gear,  because  this  was  also  the  summer  that  Blake  discovered  alcohol.  It  so  astonished  him  that  he  didn't  stop  drinking  for  ten  years.  (Aunt  Kitty  to  Uncle  Walker:  &quot;Do  you  think  Blake  drinks  too  much,  dear?&quot;  &quot;Of  course  I  do!&quot;)  When  people  asked  him  what  he  was  doing,  he  would  reply,  &quot;Finding  myself.&quot;  One  day  he  found  himself  and  stopped;  also  he  had  begun  to  develop  a  pot.  &quot;I'm  funny  enough  looking  without  a  belly.&quot;  He  wasn't  that  funny-looking,  but  he  hated  his  face.  Thin,  pale,  and  bespectacled,  he  always  said  that  as  a  teen-ager  he  looked  like  thepresident  of  the  High  School  Sex  Club,  The  " b"first  twenty-five  years  of  his  life  were  devoted  to  over-  coming  his  oddball  appear-  ance.  When  he  announced  to  Kate  that  he  was  going  to  Princeton,  he  told  her  that  he  was  tired  of  being  different.  &quot;I  look  like  a  sap,  and  we  live  in  a  terrible  part  of  town-a  nice  house,  but  still  a  lousy  part  of  town.  I  went  to  that  pro-  gressive  school  instead  of  one  of  those  schools  where  they  wear  little  caps,  and  my  father  wears  those  god-  dam  clothes.  Once,  he  asked  me  to  buy  him  some  black  socks  of  a  certain  kind,  and  the  clerk  said  to  me,  'Is  your  dad  a  police-  man,  Sonny?&quot;'  Everyone  thinks  I  should  go  to  Har-  vard;  the  idea  is  I'd  be  less  conspicuous  there.&quot;  He  deliberately  chose  Princeton,  where  he  joined  an  eating  club,  and  didn't  work,  and  drank,  and  made  a  lot  of  friends  who  wore  white  bucks  and  thought  he  was  funny.  Blake  worked  in  Wash-  ington  for  two  years  after  he  graduated  from  college,  and  occasionally  he'd  come  up  for  the  weekend.  Kate  had  a  job  in  New  York,  and  asked  him  toa  party  she  was  giving  one  Saturday  night.  He  stayed  on  after  the  other  guests  had  left.  He  sat  on  the  kitchen  stool  drying  each  glass  too  carefully,  as  peo-  ple  do  who  are  not  ac-  customed  to  doing  dishes.  They  picked  over  each  of  the  guests,  and  then  Blake  said,  &quot;I've  met  a  girl  in  [REDACTED].  You'd  like  hera  lot.&quot;  &quot;Do  you?&quot;  Kate  asked,  &quot;'Yes.  She  has  the  sweetest  smile.  Her  name  is  Louise.  She's  not  exactly  pretty,  butshe  has  the  sweetest  smile.&quot;  He  turned  up  his  mouth  at  the  corner  and  shut  one  eye  in  an  attempt  to  duplicate  the  sweet  smile.  Kate  looked  at  him  and  burst  out  laughing.  &quot;Maybe  it  looks  better  on  her,&quot;  she  said.  He  went  on.  &quot;The  trouble  is,  she's  a  Roman  Catholic.&quot;  &quot;So  am  I,  in  case-&quot;   &quot;Yeah,  but  I  don't  want  to  marry  you.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  so  that's  it,&quot;  said  Kate.  &quot;I  trust  she  isn't  hoping  you'll  join  the  true  faith.&quot;  &quot;No,  she's  too  smart  for  that,&quot;  Blake  said.  &quot;We  have  these  terrible  fights,  not  about  the  children  being  brought  up  Catholics  and  stuff  like  that-there's  the  Personal  Conscience  loophole,  as  you  call  it.  I  have  to  hand  it  to  the  Roman  Catholic  Church.  They've  got  it  fixed  so  they  keep  you  in  their  clutches  no  matter  what  you  do  d  'You  mean  you  actually  have  long  talks  about  the  existence  of  God?  The  way  we  used  to  in  college?&quot;  &quot;No.  We  fight  because  I  don't  see  how  an  intelligent  person  can  believe  even  half  of  that  junk.  You've  got  to  be  pig  stupid.&quot;  By  this  time  Blake  had  stopped  drying  glasses  and  was  waving  the  dish  towel.  &quot;If  you  really  want  to  marry  this  girl,  I  suggest  you  stop  talking  about  Catholics  in  the  same  tone  of  voice  you  use  when  you  referto  the  Nazis,&quot;  Kate  said.  &quot;They  have  a  lot  in  common,  in-  " b"cluding  anti-Semitism,&quot;  Blake  replied.  &quot;Well,  the  Nazis  sure  took  the  Per-  sonal  Conscience  loophole  about  as  far  as  it  can  go,&quot;  Kate  said.  &quot;She  says  she's  not  about  to  marry  anyone  who  is  contemptuous  of  her  beliefs.  I'm  not  exactly  contemptuous;  I  just  think  she's  benighted  in  this  one  little  respect,&quot;  Blake  said.  &quot;Poor  Louise.  Too  bad  your  grand-  mother  isn't  still  alive.  Then  she,  you,  and  your  father  could  all  get  together  and  straighten  her  out,&quot;  Kate  said.  Blake  drew  himself  up  on  the  stool.  &quot;We  would  never  do  such  a  thing,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;And  if  we  did,  it  would  be  an  impersonal  discussion.&quot;  &quot;Well,  fight,  then  marry-if  you're  still  speaking  to  each  other,&quot;  Kate  said.  &quot;You  wouldn't  care  to  do  Louise's  sweet  smile  for  me  oncemore,  would  you?&quot;  FTER  Blake  and  Louise  were  married,  Blake  went  to  law  school  and  then  joined  a  law  firm  in  New  York.  They  used  the  little  house  in  the  summer,  and  when  Kate  went  to  Brookside  she  usually  stayed  with  them.  The  summer  after  he  was  made  apartner,  the  three  of  them  decided  to  give  a  dance.  It  was  their  declaration  of  independence;  they  did  notask  any-  one's  permission.  They  did  consult  the  Farmer's  Almanac,  and  picked  Labor  Day  weekend,  when  there  would  be  a  full  moon,  and  spent  all  summer  or-  ganizing.  They  arranged  for  a  band,  a  dance  floor,  a  marquee,  a  midnight  supper,  and  champagne.  The  guest  list  was  getting  longer  and  longer  because  of  weekend  guests,  so  they  decided  to  cut  out  all  the  older  generation.  &quot;How,  exactly,  are  we  going  to  do  that?&quot;  Blake  asked.  &quot;We  just  won't  send  them  invita-  tions,&quot;  said  Kate.  The  older  generation  came  anyway;  they  assumed  there  had  been  an  over-  sight,  and  neither  Kate  nor  Louise  had  the  nerve  to  tell  them  that  there  had  been  no  oversight.  The  entire  family  descended  on  Brookside.  &quot;'You  know,  I  hadn't  really  envi-  sioned  this  as  a  dance  for  the  femily,&quot;  Blake  said.  &quot;Only  a  third  is  family,&quot;  Louise  said.  Kate  arrived  at  Brookside  two  days  beforethe  great  event,  with  Tom,  whom  she'd  met  a  few  weeks  before.  They  came  after  dinner.  Blake  greeted  them,  and  then  said,  &quot;I  might  as  well  tell  you  right  off  that  some  people  around  here  are  not  as  enthusiastic  about  this  dance  as  they  might  be.&quot;  &quot;Are  we  afraid  we're  not  going  to  have  a  good  time?&quot;  asked  Kate.  &quot;That,  and  we  are  afraid  that  it  will  change  the  character  of  the  place,&quot;  Blake  said.  &quot;And  the  dance  ((\xc2\xab  floor  was  put  down  two  days  ago,&quot;  Louise  added.  Kate  peered  out  the  window  at  the  front  lawn,  which  was  almost  entirely  cov-  ered  by  a  wooden  platform.  &quot;They've  been  sitting  up  on  that  platform  with  people  driving  by  and  staring,  and  something  tells  me  they  may  feel  con-  spicuous,&quot;  Blake  added.  &quot;I  can't  imagine  why,&quot;  Kate  said.  That  evening,they  drew  up  three  committees:  one  to  handle  wallflowers,  one  to  handle  drunks,  and  one  to  deal  with  special  problems.  Special  prob-  lems  included  a  female  friend  who  af-  ter  midnight  was  given  to  leading  the  orchestra.  Another  was  a  neighbor  who  could  be  counted  on  to  jump  into  the  pool  with  all  of  his  clothes  on.  &quot;How  are  we  going  to  keep  Sam  out  of  the  pool?&quot;  Kate  asked.  &quot;Who  cares?&quot;  Tom  said.  The  three  others  looked  at  him  in  astonishment.  &quot;If  one  person  jumps  in  that  pool,  with  or  without  his  clothes,  we  are  going  to  have  to  hear  for  the  rest  of  our  lives  about  the  drunken  brawl  we  gave  that  ended  up  in  a  swimming-  pool  orgy,&quot;  Blake  said.  Tom  stared  at  them.  &quot;In  [REDACTED],  no  dance  is  considered  a  success  unless  at  least  one  person  jumps  in  the  swim-  ming  bawth  in  his  evening  clothes.&quot;  The  day  of  the  dance,  they  woke  up  to  a  cold,  steady  rain.  It  was  so  cold  that  they  considered  moving  the  whole  thing  into  the  big  house.  At  least  Kate  and  Louise  considered  it.  &quot;Absolutely  not,&quot;  Blake  said.  &quot;We've  spent  all  this  dough  on  the  floor  and  the  marquee,  and  we're  go-  ing  to  use  them,  dammit.&quot;  Tom  suggested  they  collect  as  many  barbecues  as  they  could  and  light  them  at  four  in  the  afternoon,  &quot;and  then  as  a  windbreak  we'll  surround  the  floor  with  evergreens.&quot;     &quot;We  will?&quot;  Blake  said.  Kate  and  Louise  picked  flowers  in  the  rain.  Tom  and  Blake  spent  the  morning  cutting  down  trees.  Tom  put  ground  pine  around  the  guy  wires  &quot;so  the  goddam  guests  don't  garrote  them-  selves,&quot;  and  fairy  lights  in  the  trees.  He  waxed  the  dance  floor-they'd  for-  gotten  about  that.  Blake  made  the  trips  to  the  hardware  store  for  extension  cords,  electrician's  tape,  wire,  lights,  floor  waxer.  They  went  around  the  valley  gathering  barbecues.  Between  trips,  Blake  muttered  to  Kate,  &quot;If  you  don't  marry  this  guy,  I'll  kill  you.&quot;  The  fires  were  lit,  and  at  five  o'clock  a  miracle  occurred.  The  weather  turned  warm,  the  sun  came  out,  the  fog  rolled  away-the  direct  result  of  prayer,  Kate  and  Louise  said.  The  fires  were  doused,  and  they  opened  a  bottle  of  champagne  to  cele-  brate.  There  were  no  wallflowers,  Sam  stayed  out  of  the  pool,  and  the  last  guest  went  home  at  5  a.m.  O  miracle  occurred  the  summer  Blake  was  dying,  and  nobody  expected  one.  By  the  time  Blake  and  Louise  moved  to  Brookside  for  the  summer,  they  had  worked  their  way  through  all  the  annual  ceremonies:  the  last  Thanksgiving,  Christmas,  Easter,  wedding  anniversary,  and  the  birth-  days.  Not  having  his  parents  know,  at  least  officially,  that  he  was  dying  did  make  it  easier.  Once  Kate  got  the  hang  of  it,  which  was  never  to  permit  herselfto  think  beyond  the  moment,  she  was  able  to  get  through  these  occa-  sions.  The  current  arrangements  at  Brookside  were  Blake,  Louise,  daugh-  ter,  and  two  sons  in  the  stone  house;  Kate  and  Tom  and  their  two  sons  in  " b"the  little  house;  cousins  in  the  other  two  houses.  Uncle  Walker  had  retired,  and  he  and  Aunt  Kitty  went  to  [REDACTED]  every  summer.  He  rented  the  little  house  to  Kate  for  a  dollar.  Alto-  gether,  there  were  four  five-year-old  boys  on  the  place,  and  four  two-year-  old  boys.  Blake's  daughter,  nine,  bossed  them  around.  The  children  helped  the  adults  get  through  the  sum-  mer.  No  one  under  the  age  of  six  could  pronounce  an  &quot;R,&quot;  and  no  one  except  the  nine-year-old  bothered  to  correct  them.  The  &quot;Ws  flew.  The  children  sang,  and  rolled  around  in  heaps,  and  swam  with  one  foot  on  the  bottom  of  the  pool.  All  the  adults  slept  badly,  but  in-  stead  of  stewing  they  would  get  up  and  read,  or  walk,  or  talk,  during  the  night.  Sometimes  one  of  the  children  would  awaken,  and  the  grownups  would  get  him  up  and  play  with  him.  Kate's  younger  son  rose  with  the  dawn,  and  Kate  rose  with  him.  They  slept  at  odd  hours  during  the  day,  and  swam  at  odd  hours  in  thenight.  Kate  went  down  to  the  pool  early  one  morn-  ing  to  find  Blake  in  his  floppy  white  F.D.R.  hat,  bird-watching,  the  bird  guide  beside  him.  He  was  an  aspiring  nature  lover.  He  had  taken  up  bird-  watching  this  year;  the  summer  before,  it  was  wild  flowers.  They  didn't  speak.  Finally,  without  looking  away  from  his  binoculars,  he  said,  &quot;All  this  time  I  thought  those  starlings  were  admir-  ing  their  reflections  in  the  pool;  they're  going  to  the  bathroom.&quot;  Tom  spent  as  much  time  as  possible  in  the  country.  The  only  form  to  their  days  was  lunch  and  dinner.  They  cooked  up  a  great  variety  of  exotic  baby  food.  Blake  didn't  eat  some  of  it,  but  he  was  usually  present  for  part  of     the  meal.  They  ate  outdoors  as  often  as  possible,  so  that  it  was  less  notice-  able  who  ate  what,  and  people  could  come  and  go.  The  ladies  paid  great  attention  to  their  dress.  They  bought  new  clothes,  and  tripped  about  on  high  heels  every  evening,  and  wore  a  lot  of  perfume  and  red  lipstick.  Blake  liked  high  heels,  perfume,  and  red  lipstick.  When  they  were  in  their  teens,  Kate  would  tell  Blake  he'd  better  change  his  socks,  and  he  would  tell  her  to  put  on  some  lipstick.  He  took  on  death  as  he  took  on  anything  at  which  he  wished  to  be-  come  proficient-singing,  tennis,  golf,  trees,  wild  flowers,  the  law,  birds.  He  talked  and  argued  with  a  clergyman  friend  from  time  to  time.  He  planned  his  funeral  in  minute  detail,  including  the  inscription  on  his  tombstone.  He  discussed  the  future  of  his  wife  and  children  with  Kate,  and  with  Tom.  &quot;I  suppose  if  I  talk  about  my  death  with  you,  Kate,  you'll  start  crying,&quot;  he  said  early  in  the  summer.  &quot;Probably,&quot;  Kate  said,  &quot;but  I  can  always  leave.  Maybe  if  you  sort  of  eased  into  it.  I'd  better  tell  you  right  now  that  I'm  not  going  to  be  able  to  say  goodbye  to  you.  I've  already  prac-  ticed  a  couple  of  times,  and  I  don't  come  out  at  all  well.&quot;  He  looked  away  and  said  nothing  for  a  few  seconds.  &quot;I  hope  that  Louise  will  marry  within  three-&quot;  &quot;You  do?  Who?&quot;  Kate  asked.  &quot;Who?  What's  that  got  to  do  with  it?&quot;  &quot;I  just  wondered  if  youhad  anybody  in  mind,&quot;  Kate  said.  &quot;No,  I  haven't,  and  I  don't  want  any  suggestions  from  you.  Anyway,  as  I  was  about  to  say,  I  hope  that  youand  45  Tom  will  keep  an  eye  on  her  and  the  chil-  dren,  and  keep  on  doing  things  together  the  way  we  always  have.&quot;  &quot;You  didn't  really  think  we  were  going  to  drop  them,  did  you?  What  are  you  getting  at?&quot;  &quot;Well,  you  com-  plained  to  me  once  about  all  those  married  menwho  volunteer  to  bring  some  sunshine  into  the  life  of  every  unmarried  woman  over  thirty.&quot;  &quot;They're  not  as  bad  as  the  married  couples  who  ask  you  to  dinner  to  meet  Mr.  Right.  What  you  mean  is  that  you  want  us  to  protect  her  from  lech-  erous  married  men  and  their  do-good-  ing  wives.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  shut  up.  You  know  what  I  mean.  I  want  her  to  marry  a  swaeyve  fellow,  almost  like  me.&quot;  Blake's  parents  came  for  the  Fourth  of  July  weekend.  &quot;We're  not  going  to  [REDACTED]  this  summer,  because  we  can't  afford  it,&quot;  Uncle  Walker  had  announced  in  the  spring,  to  an  unbe-  lieving  audience.  It  was  a  most  suc-  cessful  visit,  coinciding,  not  by  chance,  with  Blake's  remission.  He  looked  like  a  manwho  was  recovering  from  a  heart  attack.  He  was  tan,  his  voice  was  hoarse  but  strong,  he  could  get  through  all  the  meals,  because  his  fa-  ther  had  false  teeth  and  Louise  had  a  legitimate  excuse  for  serving  mush,  and  he  never  appeared  in  a  bathing  suit  in  front  of  his  parents.  Everyone  remarked  constantly  on  how  well  he  looked.  They  talked  of  the  past,  and  the  children,  but  not  the  future.  Kate  only  once  caught  Uncle  Walker  star-  ing  with  frightened  eyes  at  his  son.  As  a  present,  Aunt  Kitty  ordered  a  slide  for  the  pool.  Blake  and  his  father  had  a  blockbuster  of  a  fight  over  Viet-  nam,  in  which  the  history  of  Ameri-  can  foreign  policy  for  the  past  ten  years  was  examined  in  exhaustive  de-  tail.  This  cheered  everyone,  and  for  a  brief  period  they  forgot  Blake  was  dying.  &quot;Dear,  do  you  remember  how  em-  barrassed  youwere  when  Kate  and  I  took  you  to  Deerfield  in  the  old  Dodge?&quot;  Aunt  Kitty  asked  Blake.  &quot;Jesus,  do  I.  It  was  the  same  color  as  Dad's  hat,  and  Mr.  Pike  wore  his  " b"moonlighting  chauffeur's  uniform,&quot;  said  Blake.  The  old  Dodge  had  belonged  to  his  Grandmother  Blake.  It  was  an  upright  navy-blue  sedan,  with  a  tire  on  the  back.  Unsmart,  but  steady.  Like  Uncle  Walker's  hat,  it  had  turned  a  mottled  purple  with  age.  Old  without  distinc-  tion.  &quot;Why  didn't  we  go  in  the  Lincoln,  with  Arnold?&quot;  Kate  asked.  &quot;Because  Arnold  drove  his  age,  which  was  sixty-five  that  year,  and  I  didn't  want  to  risk  losing  all  three  of  you,&quot;  Uncle  Walker  said.  &quot;Another  thing,  Dad.  About  that  sex  talk  you  gave  me  before  I  went  off  to  school-&quot;  &quot;I'm  happy  to  say  I  don't  remember  it,&quot;  Uncle  Walker  interrupted.  &quot;You  advised  me  to  watch  out  for  boys;  with  my  complexion,  I  didn't  have  to  watch  out  for  anybody.&quot;  Over  the  weekend,  Uncle  Walker,  perhaps  with  unconscious  forethought,  proposed  thatthe  property  be  divided  up  legally.  &quot;Joint  ownership  is  per-  fectly  ridiculous!&quot;  &quot;Why  did  you  agree  to  it,  then?&quot;  asked  Aunt  Kitty.  &quot;''To  please  you.  I  didn't  want  to  start  out  fighting  with  my  in-laws.&quot;  Everyone  agreed  that  the  property  should  be  divided,  but  no  one  could  agree  how.  The  question  was  not  only  how  to  divide  up  the  land  but  what  should  be  held  jointly.  The  pool?  The  springhouses?'  The  right-of-way  be-  tween  two  of  the  houses?  \xc2\xab&quot;What  happens  if  someone  wants  to  sell?&quot;  &quot;They  can't  without  the  permission  of  the  other  owners.&quot;  &quot;Then  what's  the  point  of  owning  your  own  house?&quot;  Blake  and  his  father  drew  maps  of  the  property,  to  scale;  they  divided  and  subdivided  and  provided  alternate  ac-  cesses  and  easements  and  rights-of-  way.  For  every  suggestion,  there  were  three  objections.  &quot;It's  all  very  well  for  the  pool  to  be  jointly  owned,  but  what  if  one  of  the  houses  is  sold?&quot;  Blake  asked.  &quot;The  pool  would  not  be  part  of  the  deal,&quot;  his  father  replied.  &quot;Well,  then,  who  in  hell  would  ever  buyone  of  the  houses?&quot;  &quot;Non-swimmers?&quot;  When  Uncle  Walker  and  Aunt  Kitty  left,  they  were  given  a  royal  sendoff.  Brookside  was  noted  for  its  welcome  and  farewell  committees,  composed  of  all  the  children  on  the  place,  and  most  of  the  adults.  They'd  hang  out  windows,  appear  in  door-  ways,  sit  on  walls,  surround  the  car,  wave  and  yell,  and  hug  and  kiss.  These  spontaneous  demonstrations  were  often  the  liveliest  part  of  the  guests'  stay.  After  his  parents  had  driven  away,  Blake  turned  to  Tom  and  said,  &quot;You  know  the  difference  between  the  Blakes  and  the  Mitchells?  When  you  went  on  a  trip,  Kate's  fam-  ily  would  say,  'Goodbye,  I  love  you,'  and  the  Mitchells  would  say,  'Have  you  been  to  the  bathroom?&quot;  &quot;  THE  annual  August  water  shortage  arrived  on  schedule.  It  was  an  avoidable  crisis,  because  there  was  another  spring  that  could  be  hitched  up  to  the  main  water  supply,  but  the  plumber  never  got  around  to  it  until  the  main  supply  ran  out.  Frantic  phone  calls  would  be  made,and  the  plumber  would  arrive,  hero  of  the  day.  This  gave  pleasure  to  some,  was  toler-  ated  by  others,  and  enraged  Kate,  ev-  ery  year.  She  would  storm  over  to  the     stone  house  and  announce  to  Blake  that  she  was  never  coming  back  to  this  place  again.  Blake  would  point  out  to  her  that  the  annual  water  crisis  pro-  vided  a  certain  amount  of  entertain-  ment  for  everyone  but  her,  and  since  everyone  else  was  pitching  in  and  duti-  fully  conserving  water,  she  was  now  free  to  use  as  much  as  she  liked.  This  year  she  did.  A  twelve-year-old  cousin  had  gone  around  to  all  the  houses  and  tacked  up  signs  in  each  bathroom  reading:  &quot;DO  NOT  USE  SO  MUCH  AS  ONE  DROP  OF  WATER  UNLESS  IT  IS  ABSOLUTELY  NECESSARY!&quot;  That  did  it.  Kate  washed  all  the  curtains.  By  this  time,  Blake  spoke  ina  soft  croak,  and  was  on  a  liquid  diet.  He  was  so  thin  that  he  had  stopped  swim-  ming.  As  the  summer  progressed,  Louise  had  bought  him  shirts  with  smaller  and  smaller  neck  sizes,  and  bathing  trunks  from  the  boys'  depart-  ment,  which  were  held  up  with  string.  In  July,  he  had  tried  to  teach  Kate's  older  son  the  crawl.  Blake  would  put  his  hand  under  the  child's  stomach,  and  the  boy,  round-eyed  with  horror  at  the  scarecrow  holding  him  up,  would  go  through  the  motions  of  the  crawl.  After  three  days  of  this,  he  wouldn't  go  near  the  pool,  for  fear  the  lessons  would  resume.  It  was  Blake's  only  slip.  They  got  so  they  didn't  want  to  go  anyplace,  because  their  intense  cama-  raderie  became  the  real  world  and  ev-  erything  else  seemed  unreal.  Kate  didn't  say,  &quot;Sorry,  we  can't  come  to  dinner  because  Blake  is  dying,&quot;  but  she  wanted  to.  The  four  of  them  sat  in  the  kitchen  garden  of  the  stone  house,  talking  and  reading,  and  often  just  sitting.  They  talked  about  what  they  " b"wanted  for  their  children,  about  schools,  money,  their  own  inadequa-  cies,  Brookside.  &quot;Are  my  children  go-  ing  to  feel  the  same  way  about  this  place  that  I  do?&quot;  Blake  would  throw  out  at  Louise.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  Kate  said.  &quot;No,&quot;  Louise  and  Tom  said.  Louise  and  Tom,  unlike  other  in-laws,  loved  Brookside.  &quot;It's  not  my  family,&quot;  Tom  would  say.  &quot;Nor  mine,&quot;  Louise  would  add.  In  the  middle  of  August,  an  ex-  tremely  unpleasant  situation  arose,  having  to  do  with  the  children's  live-  in  sitters,  two  plain  girls  from  the  village.  They  were  simple,  cheerful  girls,  with  an  addiction  to  fried  food.  On  their  free  evenings,  they  would  head  for  a  local  beer  parlor,  where  they  picked  up  a  couple  of  college  boys  out  to  pick  up  a  couple  of  simple  girls.  They  started  coming  home  later  and  later,  and  aside  from  the  fact  that  they  were  difficult  to  rouse  in  the  morning,  there  was  the  ugly  fact  that  they  were  being  led  down  the  garden  path.  The  girls  thought  the  boys  were  nice  guys,  and  &quot;incredibly&quot;  handsome.Kate  went  down  to  the  kitchen  late  one  night  to  have  a  look  at  them.  They  sprang  to  their  feet,  all  chinos  and  alligator  shirts.  They  were  embar-  rassed,  and  said  &quot;Thank  you&quot;  too  much.  Kate  did  nothing  to  make  things  easier.  The  next  morning,  as  soon  as  she  saw  the  F.D.R.  hat  down  in  the  kitchen  garden,  she  went  over.  &quot;O.K.  What  are  we  going  to  do  about  the  Brooks  Brothers  punks?&quot;  &quot;'You're  talking  about  me  twenty  years  ago,&quot;  Blake  said.  &quot;Or,  rather,  twenty  years  ago  I  wanted  to  be  one  of  thoseguys.  The  college  and  the  clothes  were  all  right,  but  not  the  [REDACTED];  He  paused.  &quot;Townies,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;The  important  thing  was  not  to  knock  one  up.&quot;  &quot;I  hoped  to  blast  them  away  with  the  force  of  my  disgust,  but  I'm  sure  I  didn't,&quot;  Kate  said.  &quot;What  can  we  tell  the  girls  that  won't  hurt  their  feel-  ings?  We'll  end  up  doing  nothing,  and  the  little  twerps  will  drop  them  flat  at  the  end  of  the  summer-flat  and  possi-  bly  pregnant.&quot;  They  sat  in  their  chairs,  thoroughly  depressed.  Then  Blake  brightened  up.  &quot;I've  got  it.  Lie.  The  first  time  I  realized  I  didn't  have  to  tell  the  truth  was  one  of  the  great  moments  of  my  life.  A  whole  new  world  opened  up  to  me.  My  mother  asked  me  if  I'd  taken  two  dollars  from  her  purse.  I  was  just  about  to  say  yes,  when  it  occurred  to  me  that  I  could  say  no.  Wow!&quot;  A  dreamy  look  came  over  his  face  briefly.  &quot;Tell  the  girls  that  some  friends  of  yours  from  Yale  know  the  boys,  and  have  informed  you  that  these  two  guys  make  a  habit  of  doing  this  sort  of  thing.  Say  one  of  them  got  a  girl  in  trouble  and  made  her  get  an  abortion,  and  she  got  sick  and  damn  near  died.  No,  she  did  die.  It  will  put  them  on  their  guard,  at  least.  Say  it's  perfectly  all  right  with  us  if  they  want  to  go  out  with  them,  but  watch  it.&quot;  The  strategy  worked,  and  it  ruined  the  rest  of  the  girls'  summer.  They  were  in  love.  All  Kate's  speech  did  was  destroy  hope,  and  once  the  girls  were  less  starry-eyed,  the  boys  dropped  them.  ETE  in  August,  Kate  and  Blake  were  sitting  in  the  living  room  of  the  stone  house  at  3  a.m.  Kate  was  sitting,  Blake  was  lying  on  the  sofa  wrapped  in  a  blanket.  He  was  in  pain,  and  couldn't  sleep.  He  resisted  taking  " b"morphine,  because  it  made  him  hallu-  cinate.  &quot;I  hope  one  of  my  children  makes  enough  money  to  buy  back  Aunt  Em-  ily's  house,&quot;  Blake  rasped.  &quot;Ialways  hoped  to,  when  my  raft  came  in.I  would  have  put  a  big  Anchor  fence  around  it,  artfully  disguised,  and  seen  people  by  invitation  only.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  think  Aunt  Emily  was  really  vague  or  just  pretending  to  be?&quot;  Kate  asked.  &quot;It  doesn't  matter,  because  she  was  beautiful.  If  you're  really  beautiful,  you  don't  have  to  be  anything  else.  She  even  convinced  usthat  Topper  was  beautiful,&quot;  he  added.  &quot;You  know,  it  wasn't  until  I  was  about  thirty  that  I  realized  that  I'd  always  hated  that  goddam  pony.  He  had  a  mean  disposi-  tion,  and  he  was  fat  and  spoiled.  He  would  roll  me,  and  then  step  on  my  foot  before  I  could  get  up.&quot;  &quot;And  he  bit  you  when  you  tried  to  give  him  lumps  of  sugar,&quot;  Kate  added.  It  wasn't  until  Blake  said  it  that  Kate  realized  that  she,  too,  had  always  hated  Topper.  For  years  they  had  been  conned  into  loving  him,  because  chil-  dren  love  their  pony,  and  their  dog,  and  their  parents,  and  picnics,  and  the  ocean,  and  the  lovely  chocolate  cake.  &quot;I  spent  two  weeks  with  Aunt  Em-     ily  the  summer  she  rented  that  house  on  Martha's  Vineyard,&quot;  Blake  said.  &quot;It  was  the  year  I  graduated  from  school,  and  a  lot  of  guys  I  knew  were  there.  One  morning  I  got  up  with  the  most  awful  hangover,  and  managed  to  appear  for  lunch.  Aunt  Emily  asked  me  how  I  felt,  and  I  said,  'Fine.  Why?&quot;&quot;  'Well,  I  wondered,  because  this  morning  when  you  came  home  you  fell  down  three  times  between  the  front  door  and  the  bathroom.'  And  that  was  the  end  of  it.  She  wasn't  angry,  and  never  held  it  against  me.  But  then  noone  in  this  familyhas  ever  held  things  against  me.&quot;  &quot;Except  maybe  those  trees,&quot;  Kate  said.  &quot;During  your  Tree  Period,  when  youhad  those  two  crummy  little  maples  put  in  on  either  side  of  the  house,  it  was  pointed  out  to  you  that  in  twenty  years  the  view  from  the  front  lawn  would  be  completely  blocked,  and  you  said,  'Really&quot;&quot;  &quot;  &quot;Well,  I  didn't  exactly  think  about  the  trees  blocking  the  view,  but  when  it  was  brought  to  my  attention  .  ..&quot;  T  the  end  of  the  summer,  Blake  was  too  weak  to  goup  and  down  stairs.  They  would  gather  in  his  room.  Sometimes  he  would  join  in  the  con-  versation  (&quot;Would  you  guys  please  stop  talking  about  food,  for  Christ's  sake!&quot;),  but  mostly  he  listened.  He  refused  to  see  people,  becausehe  knew  what  he  looked  like.  Kate's  niece  came  to  visit  her,  and  made  the  mistake  of  catching  a  virus  of  some  kind.  Kate  was  furious,  and  telephoned  her  sis-  ter  to  come  and  take  the  bewildered  child  home.  T  he  stone  house  smelled  of  death  and  potpourri.  The  week  after  La-  bor  Day,  an  ambulance  came  from  New  York  to  take  Blake  back  to  the  city.  The  ambulance  was  supposed  to  arrive  at  a  certain  time,  so  that  Louise  could  pile  the  children  in  the  car  fifteen  minutes  before-  hand  and  drive  them  to  the  city,  but  it  arrived  early.  Kate  stood  at  her  bedroom  window  and  watched  the  attendants  carry  him  to  the  ambulance.  His  elder  son  stood  by  himself  at  thetop  of  the  road  and  asked  loudly,  of  no  one,  &quot;Why  are  they  taking  my  father  away?&quot;  Tom  accompanied  Blake  to  administer  morphine  if  necessary.  He  died  two  days  later.  His  father  would  never  talk  about  him  again,  and  never  returned  to  Brookside.  He  could  not  forgive  a  God  he  did  not  believe  in  for  permitting  him  to  live  and  his  son  to  die.  IX  months  later,  Uncle  Walker  telephoned  Kate  and  said  they'd  like  to  give  her  the  little  house.  &quot;It  willcost  you  a  dollar,&quot;  said  Uncle  Walker.  She  asked  her  aunt  and  uncle  for  drinks  that  evening  to  thank  them.  When  her  aunt  was  talking  to  Tom,  Uncle  Walker  turned  to  Kate  and  said  quietly,  his  eyes  alight  with  mischief,  &quot;I  am  aware  that  I'm  doing  you  no  favor,  dearie.&quot; "