 b"PRUE  used  to  live  with  Gordon.  PThis  was  after  Gordon  had  left  his  wife  and  before  he  went  back  to  her-a  year  and  four  months  in  all.  Some  time  later,  he  and  his  wife  were  divorced.  After  that  came  a  period  of  indecision,  of  living  together  off  and  on;  then  the  wife  went  away  to  New  Zealand,  most  likely  for  good.  Prue  did  not  go  back  to  Vancouver  [REDACTED],  where  Gordon  had  met  her  when  she  was  working  as  a  dining,  room  hostess  in  a  resort  hotel.  She  got  a  job  in  [REDACTED],  working  in  a  plant  shop.  She  had  many  friends  in  To-  ronto  by  that  time,  most  of  them  Gordon's  friends  and  his  wife's  friends.  They  liked  Prue  andwere  ready  to  feel  sorry  for  her,  butshe  laughed  them  out  of  it.  She  is  very  likable.  She  has  what  eastern  Canadi-  ans  call  an  English  accent,  though  she  was  born  in  [REDACTED]-in  Duncan,  on  Vancouver  [REDACTED].  This  accent  helps  her  to  say  the  most  cynical  things  in  a  winning  and  lighthearted  way.  She  presents  her  life  in  anecdotes,  and  though  it  is  the  point  of  most  of  her  anecdotes  that  hopes  are  dashed,  dreams  ridiculed,  things  never  turn  out  as  expected,  everything  is  altered  in  a  bizarre  way  and  there  is  no  expla-  nation  ever,  people  always  feel  cheered  up  after  listening  to  her;  they  say  of  her  that  it  is  a  relief  to  meet  somebody  who  doesn't  take  herself  too  seriously,  who  is  so  unintense,  and  civilized,  and  never  makes  any  real  demands  or  com-  plaints.  The  only  thing  she  complains  about  readily  is  her  name.  Prue  is  a  school-  girl,  she  says,  and  Prudence  is  an  old  virgin;  the  parents  who  gave  her  that  name  must  have  been  too  shortsighted  even  to  take  account  of  puberty.  What  if  she  had  grown  a  great  bosom,  she  says,  or  developed  a  sultry  look  Or  was  the  name  itself  a  guarantee  that  she  wouldn't?  In  her  late  forties  now,  slight  and  fair,  attending  to  customers  with  a  dutiful  vivacity,  giving  pleasure  to  dinner  guests,  she  might  not  be  far  from  what  those  parents  had  in  mind:  bright  and  thoughtful,  a  cheerful  spec-  tator.  It  is  hard  to  grant  her  maturity,  maternity,  real  troubles.  Her  grownup  children,  the  products  of  an  early  Vancouver  [REDACTED]  marriage  she  calls  a  cosmic  disaster,  come  to  see  her,  and  instead  of  wanting  money,  like  other  people's  children,  they  bring  presents,  try  to  do  her  accounts,  ar-  range  to  have  her  house  insulated.  She  is  delighted  with  their  presents,  listens  to  their  advice,  and,  like  a  flighty  daughter,  neglects  to  answer  their  let-  ters.  Her  children  hope  she  is  not  staying  on  in  [REDACTED]  because  of  Gordon.  Everybody  hopes  that.  She  would  laugh  at  the  idea.  She  gives  parties  and  goes  to  parties;  she  goes  out  sometimes  with  other  men.  Her  attitude  toward  sex  is  very  comforting  to  those  of  her  friends  who  get  into  terrible  states  of  passion  and  jealousy,  and  feel  cut  loose  from  their  moorings.  She  seems  to  re-  gard  sex  as  a  wholesome,  slightly  silly  indulgence,  like  dancing  and  nice  dinners-something  that  shouldn't  interfere  with  people's  being  kind  and  cheerful  to  each  other.  Now  that  his  wife  is  gone  for  good,  Gordon  comes  to  see  Prue  occasion-  ally,  and  sometimes  asks  her  out  for  dinner.  They  may  not  go  to  a  restau-  rant;  they  may  go  to  his  house.  Gordon  is  a  good  cook.  When  Prue  or  his  wife  lived  with  him  he  couldn't  cook  at  all,  but  as  soon  as  he  put  his  mind  to  it  he  became-he  says  truth-  fully-better  than  either  of  them.  Recently  he  and  Prue  were  having  dinner  at  his  house.  He  had  made  Chicken  Kiev,  and  creme  brul\xc3\xa9e  for  dessert.  Like  most  new,  serious  cooks,  he  talked  about  food.  Gordon  is  rich,  by  Prue's-and  most  people's-standards.  He  is  a  neu-  rologist.  His  house  is  new,  built  on  a  hillside  north  of  the  city,  where  there  used  to  be  picturesque,unprofitable  farms.  Now  there  are  one-of-a-kind,  architect-designed,  very  expensive  houses  on  half-acre  lots.  Prue,  describ-  ing  Gordon's  house,  will  say,  &quot;Do  you  know  there  are  four  bathrooms?  So  that  if  four  people  want  to  have  baths  at  the  same  time  there's  no  problem.  It  seems  a  bit  much,  but  it's  very  nice,  really,  and  you'dnever  have  to  go  through  the  hall.&quot;  Gordon's  house  has  a  raised  dining  area-a  sort  of  platform,  surround-ed by  a  conversation  pit,  a  music  pit,  and  a  bank  of  heavy  greenery  under  sloping  glass.  You  can't  see  the  en-  trance  area  from  the  dining  area,  but  there  are  no  intervening  walls,  so  that  from  one  area  you  can  hear  something  of  what  is  going  on  in  the  other.  During  dinner  the  doorbell  rang.  Gordon  excused  himself  and  went  down  the  steps.  Prue  heard  a  female  voice.  The  person  it  belonged  to  was  still  outside,  so  she  could  not  hear  the  words.  She  heard  Gordon's  voice,  pitched  low,  cautioning.  The  door  didn't  close-it  seemed  the  person  had  not  been  invited  in-but  the  voices  went  on,  muted  and  angry.  Suddenly  there  was  a  cry  from  Gordon,  and  he  appeared  halfway  up  the  steps,  waving  his  arms.  &quot;The  creme  brul\xc3\xa9e,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Could  you?&quot;  He  ran  back  down  as  Prue  got  up  and  went  into  the  kitchen  to  save  the  dessert.  When  shereturned  he  was  climbing  the  stairs  more  slowly,  looking  both  agitated  and  tired.  &quot;A  friend,&quot;  he  said  gloomily.  &quot;Was  it  all  right?&quot;  Prue  realized  he  was  speaking  of  the  creme  brulee,  and  she  said  yes,  it  was  perfect,  she  had  got  it  just  in  time.  He  thanked  her  but  did  not  cheer  up.  It  seemed  it  was  not  the  dessert  he  was  troubled  over  but  whatever  had  happened  at  the  door.  To  take  his  mind  off  it,  Prue  started  asking  him  professional  questions  about  the  plants.  &quot;I  don't  know  a  thing  about  them,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Youknow  that.&quot;  &quot;I  thought  you  might  have  picked  it  up.  Like  the  cooking.&quot;  &quot;She  takes  care  of  them.&quot;  &quot;Mrs.  Carr?&quot;  said  Prue,  naming  his  housekeeper.  &quot;Who  did  you  think?&quot;  Prue  blushed.  She  hated  to  be  thought  suspicious.  &quot;'The  problem  is  that  I  think  I  would  like  to  marry  you,&quot;  said  Gor-  don,  with  no  noticeable  lightening  of  his  spirits.  Gordon  is  a  large  man,  with  heavy  features.  He  likes  to  wear  thick  clothing,  bulky  sweaters.  His  blue  eyes  are  often  bloodshot,  and  their  expression  indicates  that  there  is  a  helpless,  baffled  soul  squirming  around  inside  this  doughty  fortress.  \xc2\xab'What  a  problem,&quot;  said  Prue  lightly,  though  she  knew  Gordon  well  '  enough  to  know  that  it  was.  The  doorbell  rang  again,  rang  twice,  three  times,  before  Gordon  " b"could  get  to  it.  This  time  there  was  a  crash,  as  of  something  flung  and  landing  hard.  The  door  slammed  and  Gordon  was  immedi-  ately  back  in  view.  He  staggered  on  the  steps  and  held  his  hand  to  his  head,  meanwhile  making  a  gesture  with  the  other  hand  tosig-  nify  that  nothing  se-  rious  had  happened,  Prue  was  to  sit  down.  &quot;Bloody  overnight  bag,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;She  threw  it  at  me.&quot;  &quot;Did  it  hit  you?&quot;  &quot;Glancing.&quot;  &quot;It  made  a  hard  sound  for  an  overnight  bag.  Were  there  rocks  init?&quot;  &quot;Probably  cans.  Her  deodorant  and  so  forth.&quot;  (\xe2\x80\x98Oh.)7  Prue  watched  him  pour  himself  a  drink.  &quot;I'd  like  some  coffee,  if  I  might,&quot;  she  said.  She  went  to  the  kitch-  en  to  put  the  water  on,  and  Gordon  followed  her.  &quot;I  think  I'm  in  love  with  this  per-  [REDACTED];  he  said.  &quot;W  ho  is  she?&quot;  &quot;You  don't  know  her.  She's  quite  young.&quot;  (\xe2\x80\x98Oh.\xe2\x80\x997  &quot;But  I  do  think  I  want  to  marry  you,  in  a  few  years'  time.&quot;  &quot;After  you  get  over  being  in  love?&quot;  (\xe2\x80\x98Yes.7\xe2\x80\x99  &quot;Well.  I  guess  nobody  knows  what  can  happen  in  a  few  years'  time.&quot;  HEN  Prue  tells  about  this,  she  says,  &quot;I  think  he  was  afraid  I  was  going  to  laugh.  He  doesn't  know  why  people  laugh  or  throw  their  over-  night  bags  at  him,  but  he's  noticed  they  do.  He's  such  a  proper  person,  really.  The  lovely  dinner.  Then  she  comes  and  throws  her  overnight  bag.  And  it's  quite  reasonable  to  think  of  marrying  me  in  a  few  years'  time,  when  he  gets  over  being  in  love.  I  think  he  first  thought  of  telling  me  to  sort  of  put  my  mind  at  rest.&quot;  She  doesn't  mention  that  the  next  morning  she  picked  up  one  of  Gor-  don's  cufflinks  from  his  dresser.  The   cuffiinks  are  made  of  amber  and  he  bought  them  in  [REDACTED],  on  the  holi-  day  he  and  his  wife  took  when  they  got  back  together  again.  They  look  like  squares  of  candy,  golden,  translu-  cent,  and  this  one  warms  quickly  in  her  hand.  She  drops  it  into  the  pocket  of  her  jacket.  Taking  one  is  not  a  real  theft.  It  could  be  a  reminder,  an  inti-  mate  prank,  a  piece  of  nonsense.  She  is  alone  in  Gordon's  house;  he  has  gone  off  early,  as  he  always  does.  The  housekeeper  does  not  come  till  nine.  Prue  doesn't  have  to  be  at  the  shop  until  ten;  she  could  make  herself  breakfast,  stay  and  have  coffee  with  the  housekeeper,  who  is  her  friend  from  olden  times.  But  once  she  has  the  cuffliink  in  her  pocket  she  doesn't  lin-  ger.  The  house  seems  too  bleak  a  place  to  spend  an  extra  moment  in.  It  was  Prue,  actually,  who  helped  choose  the  building  lot.  But  she's  not  responsible  for  approving  the  plans-the  wife  was  back  by  that  time.  When  she  gets  home  she  puts  the  cufflink  in  an  old  tobacco  tin.  The  children  bought  this  tobacco  tin  in  a  junk  shop  years  ago,  and  gave  it  to  her  for  a  present.  She  used  to  smoke,  in  those  days,  and  the  children  were  wor-  ried  about  her,  so  they  gave  her  this  tin  full  of  toffees,  jelly  beans,  and  gumdrops,  with  a  note  saying,  &quot;Please  get  fat  instead.&quot;  That  was  for  her  birthday.  Now  the  tin  has  in  it  several  things  besides  the  cuflink-all  small  things,  not  of  great  value  but  not  worthless,  either.  A  little  enamelled  dish,  a  sterling-silver  spoon  for  salt,  a  crystal  fish.  These  are  not  sentimental  keepsakes.  She  never  looks  at  them,  and  often  forgets  what  she  has  there.  They  are  not  booty,  they  don't  have  ritualistic  significance.  She  doesnot  take  something  every  time  she  goes  to  Gordon's  house,or  every  time  she  stays  over,  or  to  mark  what  she  might  call  memorable  visits.  She  doesn't  do  it  in  a  daze  and  she  doesn't  seem  to  be  under  a  compulsion.  She  just  takes  something,  every  now  and  then,  and  puts  it  away  in  the  dark  of  theold  tobacco  tin,  and  more  or  less  forgets  about  it.  "