 b"I\xe2\x80\x99VE  never  been  to  a  party  for  a  convict  before,&quot;  says  Paula  Row-  land,  and  this  makes  the  second  time  Reah  Harrell  has  heard  her  say  it.  The  evening  before  Barry  Crider  be-  gins  serving  his  three  months  the  Har-  rells  are  having  a  little  gathering  to  cheer  him.  It's  not  meant  to  be  a  gala,  or  a  nose-thumbing  at  the  law,  or  anything  like  that.  Just  a  group  of  village  friends,  old  and  young,  coming  by  for  a  cookout.  Barry  and  his  family  aren't  even  supposed  to  know  the  party  is  for  him.  Now  that  he's  been  sentenced,  peo-  ple  feel  sorry  for  him.  Even  the  Row-  lands,  who  think  he's  the  one  who,  several  years  back,  borrowed  their  son  Toby's  bicycle  without  asking  and  re-  turned  it  to  their  porch  in  the  dead  of  night  broken  beyond  repair.  This,  along  with  the  report  that  Barry  was  in  on  the  cultivation,  last  summer,  of  a  row  of  marijuana  at  the  edge  of  Granger's  cornfield,  is  part  of  his  village  record.  The  weather  has  cleared,  but  a  soggy  lawn  reminds  guests  at  the  Harrells'  that  wa-  ter,  not  delinquency,  is  the  problem  here  in  Worton.  For  some  people  there  is  not  enough  to  bathe  in  or  flush  the  loos.  On  the  other  hand,  there  is  sometimes  too  much  after  a  heavy  rain  like  the  last  one.  Too  much  sitting  all  over  the  ground.  Drain  fields  are  bubbling  over.  Pipes  are  backed  up.  The  same  layer  of  shale  that  holds  the  water  close  to  the  sur-  face  makes  the  village  a  bad  place  for  digging  wells.  Only  a  little  rain  can  percolate  to  lower  levels.  The  Harrells  use  bottled  water  for  drinking.  And  Reah  isn't  telling  her  guests  that  ice  trays  for  this  party  have  been  filled  from  her  cistern.  Barry  and  his  girlfriend,  Marsha,  haven't  been  mixing  with  the  other  young  people.  &quot;They're  too  mushy  for  my  taste,&quot;  Reah  tells  her  husband,  Jonah.  &quot;Come  here,&quot;she  calls  to  Barry.  &quot;I  want  you  to  help  Mr.  Har-  rell.&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  Jonah  says,  not  wanting  the  boy  to  feel  singled  out  for  duty.  But  Marsha  is  pulling  Barry  toward  the  grill.  She's  barefooted,  dressed  in  a  halter  and  shorts  that  make  her  navel  the  focal  point  of  her  outfit.  Taking  the  spatula  from  Mr.  Harrell  and  handing  it  to  Barry,  Marsha  says,  &quot;He'll  turn  them.&quot;  &quot;What's  over  there?&quot;  Jonah  asks.  A  group  of  guests  has  left  the  party  to  stand  under  the  Rowlands'  kitchen  window.  &quot;It's  that  damn  radio  of  hers,&quot; Reah  says.  &quot;She  can't  turn  it  off  for  a  minute.&quot;  In  her  kitchen,  Paula  Rowland  has  a  receiver  set  for  police,  fire,  and  res-  cue-squad  channels.  Red  lights  flash  across  the  front  in  sequence,  in  search  of  an  excited  voice.  The  Rowlands  were  first  to  know  about  Barry's  ar-  rest.  &quot;It's  nothing,&quot;  Paula  calls,  coming  back  to  the  party.  &quot;Mrs.  Corzine's  chest  hurts  her  again  and  Pete's  taking  her  in,  justin  case.&quot;  &quot;You'd  think  Pete  was  her  best  friend,&quot;  Reah  whispers  to  Jonah.  Jonah  doesn't  think  there's  any-  thing  wrong  with  Paula's  referring  to  rescue-squad  members  by  first  name,  even  though  she's  never  met  them.  &quot;You  used  to  watch  Jimmy  on  net-  work  news,&quot;  he  reminds  Reah.  &quot;Paula  follows  Pete  on  Stilson  County  radio.&quot;  &quot;Hey,&quot;  Reah  says.  &quot;Who's  letting  those  hamburgers  burn?&quot;  Barry  and  Marsha  are  fondling  each  other  on  the  side-  lines  again.  But  Mar-  sha  comes  running  back  to  the  grill  with  the  spatula.  &quot;She's  got  too  much  energy  for  that  boy,&quot;  Reah  says.  Jonah  is  still  trying  to  explain  how  normal  it  is  for  people  to  seek  local  news,  when  county  newspapers  can't  be  expected  to  give  the  nasty  details.  &quot;Oh,  God,&quot;  Reah  says,  &quot;I  think  we  for-  got  the  sump  pump  again.  The  basement  must  be  full.&quot;  She  runs  to  check,  and  Jonah  goes  over  to  have  a  word  with  Barry,  who's  standing  alone  while  Marsha  tends  grill.  Jonah  wants  to  tell  him,  Keep  your  nose  clean  and  you'll  be  home  be-  fore  you  know  it.  In-  stead,  he  says,  &quot;How  do  you  like  your  burgers?&quot;  &quot;I  was  wrong,&quot;  Reah  says,  joining     them.  &quot;It  was  plugged  in  all  the  time.&quot;  Sump  pumps  that  " b"have  been  working  intermittently  along  the  row  for  days  are  finally  shutting  down.  Although  the  line  of  houses  that  forms  thecenter  of  Worton  appears  to  lie  on  a  flat  plane,  actually  the  land  tilts  slightly  eastto  west.  Water  pumped  from  the  Har-  rells'  basement  that  doesn't  reach  the  ditch  by  the  road  tends  to  settle  around  the  Rowlands'  place,  until  it  is  pumped  from  their  basement,  And  so  on  down  the  line.  If  the  ditch  isn't  kept  cleared,  front  lawns  become  shallow,  stagnant  lakes.  &quot;'They  always  dressed  her  skimpy  in  the  summers,&quot;  Paula  is  telling  Mrs.  Presnell.  They're  watching  Marsha,  who's  calling  for  people  to  come  and  get  'em.  &quot;I've  never  been  to  aparty  for  a  convict  before.&quot;  &quot;A  nice  boy  can  get  in  so  much  trouble,&quot;  Mrs.  Presnell  says.  &quot;I  like  them  as  a  couple,  though.&quot;  No  one  wants  to  step  between  the  shining  faces  Barry  and  Marsha  have  for  each  other.  Village  mates  from  the  start,  they  glided  all  the  way  into  love  -on  hayrides,  school-bus  rides,  and  now  joyrides.  Paula  has  found  out  they're  not  sending  Barry  to  the  prison  in  Peters-  burg.  Instead,  he's  going  to  be  kept  here  in  Stilson  County,  at  Camp  23,  and  worked  on  one  of  the  road  gangs.  &quot;Better  to  be  out-of-doors,  don't  you  think?&quot;  she  asks  Reah,  who  tries  to  ignore  the  question  but  can't  because  Paula  is  explaining  to  her  that  some  of  the  men  in  the  prisons  are  forced  to  take  male  lovers.  Reah  knows  Paula  and  some  of  the  other  guests  have  emptied  their  ice  on  the  ground  and  are  drinking  their  tea  lukewarm.  &quot;They  can't  shoot  at  a  misde-  meanor,'&quot;'  Reah  hears  behind  her.  &quot;Barry's  a  misdemeanor.&quot;  It's  his  lit-  tle  brother,  Martin,  telling  Peter  Kearns  that  Barry  won't  have  to  worry  about  the  guards.  &quot;Oh,  yeah?&quot;  Peter  says.  &quot;Running  from  a  road  gang  is  a  felony.  You  can  shoot  at  a  felony.  You  have  to.  A  guard  that  doesn't  shoot  gets  sus-  pended  forty  days.&quot;  How  do  they  know  about  these  things,  Reah  wonders.  And  which  one  of  them  is  right?  The  young  people  have  asked  the  Harrells  if  they  can  use  the  stereo  and  put  the  speakers  outside.  They  go  home  for  favorite  records,  and  soon  someone  is  playing  a  Johnny  Cash  album  of  prison  songs.  When  Reah  hears  &quot;just  doing  my  time,&quot;  shesends  Jonah  to  take  it  off,  but  it's  too  late.  Barry  and  Marsha  have  begun  to  sing  along  with  the  others.  Worse,  some-  one  has  bought  beer,  and  the  teen-  agers  are  drinking  it.  Without  saying  goodbye,  Barry's  parents  are  setting  off  down  the  road  totheir  house.  &quot;Run,&quot;  Reah  tells  Jo-  nah.  &quot;Say  this  isn't  what  we  planned  atall.&quot;  Jonah  starts  after  them  but  decides  to  let  them  go.  When  he  comes  back,  Reah  offers  him  tea.  Yes,  but  hold  the  ice,&quot;  he  says.  Reah  doesn't  think  it's  funny.  &quot;Ev-  eryone  knows  about  the  water  prob-  lems,&quot;  she  says.  Paula,  listening  in  again,  says,  &quot;Yes,  the  Criders  wanted  to  build  a  cabin  on  the  back  oftheir  lot  for  Barry.  A  place  for  him  to  be  alone,  you  know.  But,  of  course,  they  couldn't  getthe  permit  for  a  new  drain  field.&quot;  Later,  cleaning  up,  Reah  wants  Jo-  nah  to  clarify  things  for  her.  &quot;He  can't  be  a  felon  without  another  trial,  " b"can  he?  I  mean,  even  if  he  triedto  get  away.&quot;  N  the  weeks  since  Barry's  party,  the  ground  has  dried.  But  Reah  dis-  covers  that  the  rows  of  stringbeans,  at  the  end  of  their  garden  where  the  water  sat  longest,  have  rotted  and  new  seeds  will  have  to  be  planted  again.  Now  farmers  and  their  Almanac  are  calling  for  a  drought.  Reah  says  she  wonders  sometimes  why  Worton,  Vir-  ginia,  was  settled  in  the  first  place.  Quakers,  she  reminds  herself  -as  mas-  ochisticas  the  next  bunch.  They  got  along  nicely  with  hand-  dug  wells  and  cisterns,  Jonah  explains.  This  is  beautifully  fertile  farmland.  It's  just  the  strip  along  the  road  that  has  the  trouble.  Reah  and  Jonah  have  been  hoping  to  get  Barry  released  early,  so  he  and  Marsha  can  begin  at  the  community  college  in  the  fall.  Reah  thinks  if  the  boy  doesn't  start  then,  he  may  never.  Jonah  has  been  to  the  Commonwealth  Attorney,  who  admits  the  penalty  was  stiff  for  first-offense  shoplifting.  But  the  manager  of  Stilson  Drug  Mart  wants  to  set  an  example,  and  the  judge  didn't  like  Barry's  diffidence.  Early  on  a  Monday  morning,  Paula  phones  Reah.  &quot;You  wanted  him  home?  Look  out  your  window.&quot;  Barry  and  eight  fellow-convicts  in  greasy  brown  uniforms  are  clearing  Worton's  drainage  ditch.  A  supervisor  and  a  guard  with  a  rifle  are  watching  the  work  from  the  opposite  side  of  the  road,  while  an  orange  state  truck  with  a  white  cage  on  it  waits  by  the  store.  Right  away,  Reah  has  a  plan  for  getting  Mrs.  Crider  out  the  other  end  of  the  village  for  a  day  of  shopping  in  Stilson.  So  she  won't  have  to  know  about  it.  But  Paula  has  already  called  Barry's  mother  to  tell  her  how  cruel  it  is  for  them  to  puta  son  on  display  in  front  of  his  own  home.  Reah  thinks  Barry's  working  aw-  fully  hard-harder  than  the  others.  But  he  won't  look  up.  People  must  know  he's  here,  because  they're  stay-  ing  indoors.  Probably  all  watching  from  their  own  hiding  places.  By  noon,  when  the  convicts  eat  their  sandwiches,  they've  worked  half-  way  through  Worton.  Still  Barry  and  the  village  seem  to  have  their  backs  turned  on  each  other.  All  the  same,  Marsha's  friend  Donna  Kearns  drove  by  once,  and  when  thecar  was  be-  tween  him  and  the  guard  she  tried  to  pass  Barry  a  cigarette.  It  didn't  work,  because  Barry  wouldn't  look  up.  First  contact  is  made  after  lunch.  Martin  Crider  has  come  down  from  his  tree  house,  where  he  sat  all  morn-  ing  with  his  [REDACTED]  gun  in  case  Barry  needed  help  if  he  tried  to  escape.  Mrs.  Crider  sends  Martin  down  the  road  with  a  mason  jar  of  mint  and  ice  wa-  ter.  And  she  sends  lots  of  paper  cups,  so  Barry  is  sure  to  have  one  of  his  own.  Reah  watches  the  jar  fall  and  break  when  Barrywon't  accept  it.  She  thinks  Martin  may  be  crying  as  he  walks  home.  It  just  seems  to  make  Barry  work  that  much  harder.  He's  digging  deep  in  the  ditch;  the  men  around  him  are  not  even  trying  to  keep  pace.  The  supervisor  says  something  to  Barry,  and  he  slows  down.  A  group  of  his  friends  have  gathered  at  the  store,  and  are  drinking  beer,  watching  from  there.  Someone  must  have  called  Mar-  " b"sha  at  her  job  in  Winchester,  because  Reah  sees  her  drive  slowly  by  and  believes  she  sees  Marsha  hold  some-  thing  up  to  the  car's  window  as  she  passes  the  convicts.  N  the  phone,  Reah  explains  the  situation  to  Jonah.  &quot;Maybe  you  should  come  home  early,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;The  Granger  boy's  buying  beer  for  the  younger  ones  again.  Mrs.  Presnell  knows  it,  but  what  can  shedo?  And  the  wooden  cage  theconvicts  have  to  ride  in.  She  says  one  of  the  boys  locked  it  and  threw  the  key  away.&quot;  Jonah  is  surethe  authorities  don't  know  that  Barry  lives  in  Worton.  It  must  be  against  policy  to  work  a  man  in  his  own  town.  He's  going  to  call  someone  in  the  Department  of  Correc-  tions  and  ask,  and  make  sure  it  doesn't  happen  again.  &quot;What  about  right  now?&quot;  Reah  says.  &quot;It's  so  pitiful.  He  couldn't  even  talkto  his  own  brother.  And  Marsha  keeps  driving  back  and  forth,  trying  to  make  him  look  up  at  her.&quot;  Reah's  phone  rings  as  soon  as  she  hangs  up.  It's  Paula,  who  wants  to  know  if  Reah  has  heard  what  she's  heard:  that  Marsha  has  a  change  of  clothes  for  Barry  in  the  back  seat  of  thecar  and  is  trying  to  signal  him.  From  a  distance,  Reah  has  decided  Barry  looks  thinner,  even  gaunt.  But  they  haven't  made  him  cut  his  hair.  In  fact,  all  the  white  boys  on  the  gang  have  long  hair,  and  one  of  them  has  his  in  athick  braid.  Reah  takes  this  as  a  sign  they're  not  being  abused,  not  being  denied  their  personal  freedoms.  Mrs.  Crider's  only  letter  from  Barry  said  he  was  getting  good  work  reports.  And  he  was  such  a  short-timer  that  the  guards  trusted  him  and  would  let  him  do  almost  anything.  Marsha's  car  is  coming  down  the  road  once  more,  even  slower  than  before.  She's  gone  home  and  changed-  got  herself  in  the  skimpy  outfit  she  wore  to  the  cookout,  and  all  made  up,  with  her  lips  red  enough  to  beseen  from  Reah's  window.  The  guard  ought  to  be  suspicious.  But  he  just  stands  there,  head  down,  with  his  rifle  pointing  at  his  own  toes.  Next  time  Marsha  comes  by,  he  looks  up  and  smiles  as  if  she's  got  herself  fixed  up  for  him.  She  drives  on  and  parks  behind  the  store.  And  the  bunch  that's  been  hanging  out  there  moves  up  to  the  Kearnses'  yard,  right  across  from  the  convicts.  Paula  calls  again  to  ask  Reah  if  someone  shouldn't  tell  Marsha's  mother  what's  going  on.  &quot;Nothing's  going  on!&quot;  Reah  says.  But  when  she  gets  back  to  her  window  the  scene  has  changed.  Another  state  truck  is  there,  being  loaded  with  the  dirt  from  the  ditch.  And  Barry  is  walking  backward,  to-  ward  the  store.  It  looks  to  Reah  as  if  he's  keeping  the  second  truck  between  him  and  the  other  convicts.  Halfway  to  the  store,  he  turns  and  moves  quick-  ly,  still  not  running.  Reah  thinks  she  should  put  a  stop  to  this,  but  by  the  time  she  gets  the  window  open  to  call  to  him  he's  around  the  store,  out  of  sight.  Leaning  out,  she  can  hear  the  party-  ing  up  in  the  Kearnses'  yard.  The  youngsters  have  put  stereo  speakers  outside  again,  and  they've  aimed  the  noise  at  the  convicts-Merle  Hag-  gard's  &quot;Mama  Tried.&quot;  Reah  recog-  nizes  it  as  one  of  the  records  they  kept  playing  at  her  party  until  she  had  to  take  it  off  herself.  The  album  jacket  has  a  photo  inset  in  the  corner,  of  a  woman  in  a  rocking  chair,  hand  to  brow,  grieving  for  her  prisoner  son.  Minutes  are  going  by.  Too  long,  she  thinks,  for  her  to  be  doing  noth-  ing.  Looking  up,  she  sees  the  translu-  cent  decal  of  a  butterfly  she  put  on  one  of  her  windowpanes,  and  remembers  how  Jonah  objected-carried  on  as  if  she'd  given  the  house  a  tattoo,  some-  thing  permanent  and  common.  She  told  him  to  think  of  it,  instead,  as  stained  glass.  She  hears  gravel  spray  against  the  store  as  Marsha's  wheels  spin  in  the  parking  lot;  then  there  is  a  long  squeal  as  the  tires  catch  on  pavement.  At  the  ditch,  the  guard  turns  and  counts  down  his  row  of  brown  shirts,  stab-  bing  his  finger  at  each,  and  yelling  at  the  supervisor,  who's  already  pull-  ing  out  the  antenna  of  his  two-way  ra-  " b"dio  as  he  runs  toward  the  store.  omMENTsS  later,  Paula  comes  through  the  door  of  Reah'shousewith  de-  tails.  Deputy  Sheriff  Snooky  Peterson  is  on  his  way  from  Chamber-  ton  to  the  intersection  of  Routes  630  and  611.  Marsha's  car  has  to  go  past  there  to  get  on  a  main  road.  They're  not  bringing  the  dogs  yet;  they  don't  think  they'll  need  them.  But  extra  cruisers  are  coming  from  Stilson.  Paula  is  gone,  quick-  ly  as  she  arrived,  back  to  her  radio.  So  Reah  is  alone  when  she  sees  a  brown  shirt  moving  past  her  side  window.  There's  enough  time  to  imagine  general  escape,  her  house  in  siege  to  criminals,  before  the  figure  emerges  in  her  front  yard.  It's  Barry,  walking  across  the  lawn,  up  the  road  and  past  the  guard,  into  the  ditch,  He's  worked  up  a  sweat  by  the  time  his  supervisor  returns  from  the  corner.  When  men  and  trucks  are  gone  for  the  day,  people  begin  to  come  out  to  the  road  to  inspect  the  ditch  dug  by  convicts.  That  evening,  taking  her  stroll  with  Jonah,  Reah  says,  &quot;What  he  must  have  done  is  come  around  behind  the  store  when  he  finished  his  little  visit  with  Marsha,  and  then  walked  along  in  back  ofthe  houses  until  he  came  across  our  yard.  Right  here's  where  the  man  with  the  rifle  was  standing.  Mrs.  Presnell  says  the  supervisor  told  her  all  Barry  said  afterward  was  he  had  to  'go  to  the  bushes.&quot;  Was  theditch  ever  this  deep  before?&quot;  &quot;Doesn't  matter  much,&quot;  Jonah  says.  &quot;The  water  just  sits  there  anyway.&quot;  He  says  he  can't  see  why  Marsha  would  have  peeled  out  in  such  a  hurry.  &quot;Paula  thinks  it  was  diversionary  tactics,&quot;  Reah  says,  &quot;but  Donna  Kearns  told  her  that  Marsha  was  just  angry  Barry  hadn't  written  her  and  said  he  wasn't  going  to.&quot;  BARRY\xe2\x80\x99S  home  again,  free.  Some  people  think  he  and  Marsha  have  broken  up.  For  the  few  days  remaining  &amp;\xc2\xae  before  classes  started,  they  wanted  to  go  to  the  beach  and  take  Marsha's  car,  which  is  actually  in  her  father's  name,  but  he  said  they  couldn't  use  it.  Barry  defied  him  over  the  phone,  but  in  the  end  they  obeyed  Marsha's  parents  and  stayed  home.  &quot;The  only  reason  you  don't  see  them,&quot;  Paula  says,  &quot;is  be-  cause  it's  raining  again  and  they're  somewhere  indoors.&quot;  When  they  show  up  at  the  Kearnses'  Labor  Day  picnic  Reah  claps  her  hands  to  see  them  mingling  arms  and  glances.  She  feels  so  grateful  to  Barry  for  not  trying  to  escape  and,  for  some  reason,  for  working  so  hard  on  the  road  gang.  Even  when  he  and  Marsha  trytoride  double  on  the  Kearnses'  moped  and  leave  a  deep  rut  in  the  soggy  lawn,  she's  warmed  by  their  sporting.  Reah  moves  across  the  lawn  looking  for  something  alcoholic  to  drink,  without  ice.  She  doesn't  really  trust  Kool-Aid  made  with  water  from  the  Kearnses'  tap.  &quot;Water,  water  everywhere  .  .  .&quot;  It's  Paula  again,  wanting  to  know  why  it  always  has  to  rainso  hard  just  before  a  party.  Jonah  has  found  one  of  the  last  cold  cans  of  beer.  &quot;We're  not  the  only  ones  with  the  problem,&quot;he  says.  And  he  tells  Paula  his  story  about  the  sisters  at  Our  Lady  of  the  Hills  Academy,  not  five  miles  north,  who  tried  to  dig  a  well  last  summer.  First  they  hired  a  water  witch,  and  then  hung  a  rosary  on  the  drilling  rig.  Went  down  seven  hundred  feet  and  got  a  dry  hole.  &quot;To-  day  their  ground's  just  like  this,&quot;  he  says,  stomping  his  heel,  splattering  muddy  water  on  his  own  pants.  &quot;Look  what  you've  done,&quot;  Reah  says,  surprised  at  the  pleasure  Jonah  takes  in  demonstrating  that  Worton  doesn't  percolate.  At  the  other  end  of  the  yard,  Barry  and  Marsha  and  Donna  Kearns  are  in  a  three-way  splashing  war.  Barry  is  the  star,  tak-  ing  long  slides  in  the  grass,  sending  spray  to  waist  level.  &quot;We  always  believed  he  was  the  one  who  ruined  Toby's  bicycle,&quot;  Paula  says.  &quot;Of  course,  that's  past  history.&quot;  Reah  is  looking  beyond  her,  down  theroad,  along  the  swollen  ditch,  the  whole  length  of  Worton,  gladdened  by  the  slight  stir  of  news  and  water."