 b"THE  technique  had  worked  in  a  small  [REDACTED]  pilot  program:  show  hidden-camera  filmfoot-  age  of  parents  undergoing  stress  to  children  who  had  no  concept  of  sentence  structure.  The  stress  was  contrived  to  bring  out  the  deep  syntax  that  underlay  the  parents'  preconcep-  tions,  which  in  turn  determined  daily  life.  It  was  well  set  up.  And  they  had  practically  no  money-just  the  kind  of  early-on  commitment  that  breeds  networks.  First  Bob  Abzu  and  his  team  (from  his  Holding  Zone  semi-  nar)  fumigated  the  hall  to  produce  a  zero-natural  zone:  no  tipoffs  through  smell,  which  had  invalidated  Henry  Adder's  work.  Then  they  tied  them  up.  Thick  batting  over  their  little  ears.  Legs  tied  under  thechair  seat-no  picking  up  of  vibrations  through  the  floor.  So:  just  video  through  the  eyes,  and  the  use  of  the  right  hand.  It  was  well  set  up.  Using  abandoned  chil-  dren,  tell  abandoned  children  they  are  judging  a  parent.  Then  show  video-  videos  of  parents  in  different  situa-  tions-vicious  quarrels  and  so  forth,  predictable  stuff  that  children  always  know.  Instructions:  press  button  to  deliver  electric  shock  to  parent  they  &quot;feel  is  in  the  wrong,&quot;  press  other  but-  ton  to  deliver  candy  to  parent  they  &quot;feel  is  in  the  right,&quot;  ya-da-dee-ya-da.  A  setup  for  value-free  testing,as  every-  body  knows-but  they  don't  know,  because  they  don't,  that's  all.  So:  produce  value-free  environment;  standard  way  but  really  thorough,  then  input  special  video-videos  de-  signed  to  teach  kids  sentence  structure.  It  was  extremely  promising.  I  said  it  at  the  time:  &quot;Extremely  promising.&quot;  But  outside  the  pilot  situation  it  proved  difficult  to  control,  and  there  were  sev-  eral  ugly  instances  where  live  parents  (we  never  authorized  live  parents)  were  used  instead  of  video-videos  and  real  electric  shocks  were  administered,  leading  to  the  infliction  of  permanent  and  very  lamentable  damage  on  people  fromgood  schools  who  were  doing  very  promising  work  and  who  had  great  talent  and  wit.  I  WENT  to  a  good  school.  I  wore  a  gray  jacket  that  hung  down  a  little  too  long-kind  ofa  tweed,  I  think,  or  at  least  it  was  like  a  tweed.  A  little  red  in  it.  Adder  was  beginning  to  do  his  work.  We  all  knew  it  would  be  impor-  tant.  It  was  defining  a  network,  that  work.  Marian  Borman  had  left  by  the  time  I  got  there,  to  form  a  new  net-  work,  but  without  Adder  wherewould  she  have  been?  Nowhere.  That's  the  truth.  So:  I  wore  a  gray  jacket.  I  lived  in  a  small  room.  There  were  coatracks,  I  happen  to  remember;  although  it  was  a  small  room,  there  were  several  closets  and  very  many  hooks  and  racks  and  so  forth-for  clothes.  &quot;Who  would  have  so  many  clothes?&quot;  I  thought.  IT  seemed  like  a  good  idea.  Submit  children's  hair  to  razor-scan  pho-  tography.  The  technology  had  been  around  for  years-developed,  of  course,  by  the  Germans  during  the  war.  So:  using  razor-scan  photogra-  phy,  determine  proper  preamounts  of  moisture,  sunrays,  and  bleach.  There  were  obvious  commercial  applications.  And  it  was  cheap.  Or  so  we  thought.  Later  it  was  shown  that  the  razor  components  (unless  shielded  with  a  whole  complicated  facing  of  aluminum  interalloyed  with  bitumium,  which  is  impossibly  volatile  at  higher  tempera-  tures,  so  you  have  to  lower  the  temper-  ature,  ya-da-dee-ya-da,  which  means  double  the  personnel,  special-build  in-  terladers,  etc.,  which  takes  it  away  from  the  commercial  possibilities  it  was  brought  to  life  by  in  the  first  place)-the  razor  components  had  the  capacity  to  interact  with  the  develop-  ing  protein  in  the  hair  at  the  right  end  of  the  curve  (which  is  to  say  the  prettiest  children),  which  left  Susie,  for  one  example,  with  extremely  ugly  welts  on  her  scalp  instead  of  the  pretty  hair  we  hired  her  forin  the  first  place.  Plus  Chisa.  Don't  ask.  Chisa  went  screaming  down  the  hall.  &quot;My  hair!  My  pretty  hair!&quot;  she  screamed.  It  was  a  nightmare.  IT  seemed  like  a  good  idea.  Round  up  stray  dogs  with  no  identification  tags,  usinguntrained  drivers  who  had  expressed  an  interest  in  dogs  on  the  battery  of  tests.  No,  go  back  a  step.  Assemble  abandoned  men  with  no  identification,  then  determine  prepredilections  for  work,  using  input  from  the  private  sector.  No.  Back  a  step.  Interest  the  private  sector  in  ongoing  demi-demonstrations  of  how  idleness  can  be  threat-reduced  through  increased  awareness.  Now  we're  close.  At  the  start,  assemble  awareness  among  outreach  workers  to  sensitivi-  ties  ofpossible  privacies  of  the  private  sector.  Maybe  mobilize  kissies  for  pos-  sible  interactions  with  resource  per-  sonnel.  It  was  a  nightmare.  We  were  just  getting  to  the  point  where  we  had  some  ongoing  trust  buildup  with  Her-  vey  Trumal  at  Techol  Industries,  for  instance,  who  is  extremely  aware  of  the  problem,  and  other  problems-  financing  the  ballet,  special  perfor-  mances  for  tuneless  children,  that  big  spread  in  Mainstreamer  magazine;  be-  ginning  to  establish  a  first-name  basis,  giving  little  kissies  on  the  toe  and  inside  the  fingers,  where  the  skin  is  sweet.  Then-timing  ell  wrong-  street  implementers  released  thousands  of  untrained  felons.  It  was  an  error.  Using  random  procedures,  they  caused  torise  up  from  the  demography  an  enormous  sample  of  dangerous  men.  We  wanted  interest-in-animals  groups.  Instead,  they  released  thugs,  snatch-the-gold-chain-off-your-neck  people,  from  the  wrong  list.  So:  one  day  we're  working  up  a  relationship  with  Mr.  Trumal,  the  next  thereare  thousands  of  history-of-violence  peo-  ple  on  our  payroll,  commandeering  government  vehicles,  driving  govern-  ment  vehicles,  picking  up  dogs-stan-  dard  poodles,  Irish  wolfhounds,  giant  expensive  dogs,  killing  them  on  the  spot.  A  nightmare.  HE  voluntary  workers  assembled  outside  in  the  courtyard.  We  had  to  keep  them  waiting  while  JQ  forms  were  gathered  from  where  they  had  spilled.  A  stiff  breeze  came  in  the  win-  dow.  Margenette,  a  DRUZA  worker,  hired  for  ripple-factor,  had  unwisely  put  the  stack  close  to  a  draft  (original,  master,  file,  three  thousand  copies).  Margenette  has  a  mean  look.  She  sucks  in  her  breath,  blows  herself  out;  her  eyes  bug,  as  big  as  marbles.  &quot;'Try  a  little  bit  harder,&quot;  I  said  oneday  when  delayed  income  vouchers,  piling  up  on  her  desk,  brought  construction  of  a  vast  underground  tunnel  to  a  stand-  still,  waiting  for  authorization  or  de-  nial  of  authorization-anything.  N  the  courtyard  Heather  and  Alice  and  Adrian,  voluntary  workers,  shuffled  from  foot  to  foot,.  Heather  " b"scratched  behind  her  ear,  felt  a  strand  of  hair.  &quot;Nice  hair,&quot;  she  thought.  \xc2\xab'Maybe  if  we  increasedthe  subsi-  dies  in  the  J-7s,&quot;  Albert  said.  &quot;Cut  out  a  closet,  insert  a  thin  layer  of  tempered  steel  into  the  butterboard,  encourage  neighbors  to  look  at  their  timepieces  at  certain  hours.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Maybe  we  should  make  them  wear  uniforms,''  Henry  said,  tapping  Jacobean  Mixture  from  a  pouch  (a  hideous  yellow  pouch-not  cloth,  not  plastic,  almost  like  some  kind  of  skin).  '&quot;'Pass  out  the  contracts  under  emergency  inter-regules,  bypassing  re-  view,  screw  chits,  go  straight  ahead,  then  present  it  in  a  more  or  less  take-  it-or-leave-it  situation  along  with  the  subsidies.&quot;  &quot;Make  them  pretty,  though,&quot;  Al-  bert  said.  &quot;Piping  along  the  collar.  Red  against  blue  is  nice.&quot;  &quot;Different  for  the  men,&quot;  Henry  said.  &quot;More  macho.  My,  this  Jacobean  blend  is  easy  on  the  draw-nerves,  goes  down  smooth.&quot;  &quot;It's  the  higher-priced  tobaccos  used  in  the  blend,&quot;  Albert  said.  HE  boy  took  a  sleep  each  day  between  2  and  3p.m.  He  could  tell  time  by  the  sun  through  the  win-  dow.  There  were  three  windows.  Two  got  no  sun.  One  faced  the  sky  and  was  useful.  Sun  came  through  the  useful  window,  at  that  time  of  year,  sweetly.  There  was  dust  on  the  floor,  and  there  were  wood  shavings.  His  bed  was  a  pile  of  clothes  and  other  things  ransacked.  No  pillows  or  cushions.  The  pillows  and  cushions  available  in  this  abandoned  building  were  made  of  materials  he  did  not  favor,  and  had  an  unyielding  toughness  that  did  not  help  his  sleep.  His  bed  was  mostly  made  ofclothes.  Coats,  some  of  them  very  fine:  two  were  made  of  the  best  wool.  They  helped  sleep.  Waking  from  his  afternoon  sleep,  he  spent  a  minute  in  the  warmth  of  sleep  in  wool,  then  jumped  up.  Jumping  up,  he  put  dust  into  the  sun-dust  and  a  smell  of  wood.  AI:1CE,  the  voluntary  worker,  went  up  the  stairs.  Her  legs  were  not  as  strong  as  they  had  been.  On  the  land-  ing  she  stopped  to  catch  her  breath.  Some  of  the  apartments  were  being  renovated  by  sweat  equity.  Huge  un-  employed  men  from  certain  parks  were  brought  in  by  buses  to  the  core-intense  area,  given  small  polyester  paint-  brushes  and  a  number  corresponding  to  an  apartment,  then  left  alone  for  days.  Alice  thought,  &quot;No  one  has  been  here  for  a  month.&quot;  She  wore  a  camel's-hair  coat.  WE  thought  it  would  bea  good  idea.  Take  children  (with  one  or  more  parents  deprived  of  sense,  mo-  tion,  will  to  live)  and  introduce  them  into  raw  urban  environments  where  homesteading  hadn't  worked,  where  the  remaining  metal  fittings  were  hid-  den  under  hatchways  to  keep  them  intact.  There  was  some  hope  still,  we  thought:  the  important  primary  con-  nections  were  intact.  (Water,  forin-  stance,  from  pure  spring-fed  upstate  reservoirs.  The  woods!  The  pure,  fresh  spring-fed  lakes!  Country  people  standing  aside  and  not  begrudging  the  clever  way  the  water  is  sluiced  along  deep  underground  caverns,  worked  in-  geniously  into  tunnels,  more  ambitious  than  any  aqueduct,  to  the  parts  of  town  where  secondary  connections  electricity,  attractive  shops  and  stores,  lightning-fast  communication  between  lobby  and  personal  space-had  failed  to  respond.)  What  we  did  was  to  take  these  children,  who  had  had  no  sense  experience  at  all,  really,  in  terms  of  what-you-hear,  what-you-see,  what-  you-tell-buddy,  and  to  give  them  large  parcels  of  real  estate,  holding  rigged  auctions  where  the  price  was  jacked  up  by  prearrangement  with  surrogate  figures,  then  paid  for  by  hidden  sub-  sidy,  then  conveyed  to  &quot;Harry,&quot;  &quot;Babb,&quot;  whatever  child,  by  a  familiar  name  who  knew  the  child's  name.  It  seemed  like  a  good  idea.  HIS  floor  was  a  high  floor,  Built  after  the  invention  of  the  eleva-  tor,  this  building  did  not  have  eleva-  tors  or  space  fortheir  installation.  Built  by  a  man  named  Myrat.  The  front  doorway  framed  a  portrait  in  stone  of  the  head  of  Mr.  Myrat:  around  the  door  a  frame  of  granite,  then  a  keystone,  supporting  no  arch;  and  leaning  out  from  the  keystone,  a  likeness  of  Mr.  Myrat.  No  one  had,  in  decades,  looked  at  Mr.  Myrat  or  at  that  further  imposition  of  aspiration  upon  exploitation-a  marble  block  above  the  doorway,  with  the  name  Myrat  carved  into  it.  In  stone,  Mr.  Myrat  looked  out.  Inside,  pausing  for  breath,  Alice  waited  to  take  the  next  step.  On  the  sixth  floor,  the  boy  who  lived  there  waited  for  the  sound  of  the  step  on  the  stair. "