 b"PaT  HaBErmAN  has  been  alone  with  Harriet  since  the  divorce.  Harriet  was  five  then-too  young  to  be  tainted  by  Haberman's  money-  grubbing  and  country-club  life;  leave  that  to  the  children  of  his  second  mar-  riage.  The  maintenance  he  provided  for  Harriet  was  always  inadequate,  but  Pat  and  little  Harriet  didn't  want  any-  thing  from  him;  Pat  could  and  did  earn  their  keep,  and  by  the  time  Har-  riet  was  twenty  she  had  her  degree  and  was  working  in  a  literacy  program  for  blacks,  sponsored  by  a  liberal  founda-  tion.  Both  women  do  jobsthat  are  more  than  a  way  of  earning  a  modest  living.  Pat  (saved,  thank  God)  refers  to  the  businessmen's  dinners,  drunken  golf-club  dances,  and  gymkhanas  she  left  behind  with  Haberman  asto  a  criminal  record,  and  is  secretary  to  the  dean  of  the  medical  school.  Harriet  is  studying  for  her  master's  by  correspondence  and  has  already  published  a  contribution  to  a  sympo-  sium  on  &quot;Literacy  and  the  Media.&quot;  She  wears  sandals  thonged  between  the  toes,  German  print  wraparound  DIFFICULT  LOAN  CO.  FQgMERl-Y  gasy  LOAN  C|     skirts  decorated  with  braid  by  Xhosa  women  in  a  Soweto  self-help  project,  and  last  year  cut  her  shawl  of  pale-  brown  hair  into  a  permed  [REDACTED],  sothat  when  she  lies  soaking  in  her  bath-  her  mother  is  amused  to  see-the  hair  on  her  head  and  her  soft  pubic  hair  match.  Harriet  is  a  quiet  girl,  who-her  mother  is  sure-smokes  a  bit  of  pot  at  parties,  like  all  young  people  today.  &quot;And  who  are  we  to  talk?&quot;  Pat  Ha-  berman  goes  through  two  packs  a  day  -as  she  says,  &quot;just  ordinary,  lung-  destroying  tobacco.&quot;  Once,  Pat  had  a  three-year  affair  with  a  lawyer,  who  has  since  left  the  country,  but  Harriet  was  too  young  at  the  time  to  have  been  aware,  and  Pat  hasnot  decided  whether  to  tell  her.  She  is  sometimes  on  the  point  of  doing  so;  this  becomes  tempting  when  she  notices  that  the  girl  is  interested  in  a  new  boy.  Harriet  is  probably  not  so  promiscuous  as  it  is  customary  for  her  generation  to  be,  but  she  goes  away  on  paired-off  weekend  trips  and  holidays  with  an  often  changing  group  of  friends-the  young   males  leave  for  military  service  on  the  border,  or  they  disappear,  fleeing  mili-  tary  service.  This  one  or  that  has  skipped:  the  laconic  phrase  contains,  for  all  this  young  generation  of  white  [REDACTED]  Africans-dumped  with  the  deadly  task  of  defending  a  life  they  haven't  chosen  for  theraselves-the  singular  heritage  of  their  whiteness.  Pat  and  Harriet,  mother  and  daugh-  ter,  often  wonder  whether  they  should  not  emigrate,  too.  Harriet  has  been  brought  up  to  realize  that  her  life  of  choices  and  decent  comfort  is  not  shared  by  the  people  in  whose  black-  ness  it  is  embedded:  once  protected  by  them,  now  threatened.  They  are  all  around  her;  she  is  not  of  them.  And  since  she  has  been  adult,  she  has  had  her  place-even  if  she  is  silent-in  the  ritualistic  discussion  of  what  can  be  done  about  this  by  people  who  have  no  aptitude  for  politics  but  who  won't  live  like  Haberman,  making  money  from  the  blacks  and  going  off  to  gamble  among  beauty  queens  and  fellow  su-  permarket  kings  at  the  casinos  that  represent  progress  in  poor  neighboring  black  states.  Harriet  keeps  in  touch  with  her  friends  who  have  skipped  to  [REDACTED]  or  [REDACTED].  For  a  year  she  has  even  been  writing  to  a  political  prisoner  at  home  in  [REDACTED]  Africa.  There  his  letter  was,  among  circulars  from  film  clubs,  bills,  and  aerograms  with  &quot;And  when  are  you  coming  over?&quot;  scribbled  on  the  back:  Pretoria  Central  Prison,  rubber-  stamped,  with  the  prison  censor's  sig-  nature  superimposed.  Inside  was  a  closely  handwritten  sheet  of  lined  pa-  per  neatly  torn  from  an  exercise  book.  &quot;Dear  Harriet  Haberman.&quot;  But  her  eyes  dropped  to  the  signature  before  reading  any  further.  &quot;Roland  Carter.&quot;  Skimming  the  letter  as  her  feet  felt  their  own  way  down  the  stone  path,  she  went  into  the  garden,  where  Pat  was  on  her  knees  among  boxes  of  mari-  gold  seedlings.  &quot;\xc2\xa9  Roland  Carter'  mean  anything  to  you?&quot;  Her  mother's  nose  was  running  with  the  effort  of  bending  and  dig-  ging;  she  smeared  at  it  with  the  back  of  her  earth-caked  hand.  Harriet  repeated,  &quot;Roland-Car-  ter.&quot;  Pat  sniffed.  &quot;Of  course.  He  got  twelve  years.  The  journalist  from  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED].&quot;  &quot;What  did  he  do?  He's  written  to  me.  ...&quot;  &quot;Give  me  my  hankie  out  of  my  " b"pocket.  .  .  .  Furthering  the  aims  of  the  African  National  Congress-  something  like  that.  Smuggled  false  identity  papers  for  exiles.  Or  was  he  one  of  the  pamphlet-  bomb  people?  No,  that  was  [REDACTED]  Town.  Can't  you  remember?  Let's  see.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Was  he  the  one  who  said  in  court  he  had  no  regrets?&quot;  &quot;That's  him.  But  what  does  he  write  to  you  about?&quot;  Pat  scram-  bled  up,  levering  herself  from  the  ground  by  one  firmly  planted  palm.  The  two  women  stood  there  over  the  letter  in  their  tiny  garden,  sin-  gled  out.  &quot;My  God!  What  a  nice  letter!  Harriet?&quot;  She  drew  back  and  looked  at  her  daughter-a  streak  of  honest  mud  on  the  face  of  one  who  recognizes  the  mark  of  grace  on  another.  They  read  on.  The  mother  murmured  aloud.  &quot;  'Your  article  transported  me  for  more  than  a  whole  day.  ...I  have  agreed  with  you  and  argued  with  you.  ...  Some  of  your  conclusions  are,  for-  give  me,  indefensible.  .  ..  So  much  on  my  mind  that  I've  decided  to  take  up.  .  ..  If  you  feel  you  can  reply,  could  you  possibly  do  so  next  month,  as  I'm  allowed  only  one  letter  a  month  and  I'm  taking  a  chance  and  electing  one  from  you.  ...  &quot;  Harriet  seemed  to  read  more  slowly,  perhaps  wishing  to  bring  to  life  in  her  own  comprehension  the  quotations  from  Piaget  and  the  shy  touches  of  wit  (directed  against  the  writer  himself)  and  sarcasm  (directed  against  the  prison  warder  who  would  censor  the  letter).  Written  in  a  cell.  Sitting  on  a  prison  bed.  Or  did  prisoners-white  ones,  at  least-have  a  table?  A  win-  dow  with  bars  and  steel  netting  (she  had  seen  those,  driving  past  prisons).  A  heavy  doorwith  a  warder's  spy  hole  behind  the  bent  back  of  the  writer.  &quot;D'you  remember  what  he  looked  like?&quot;  Her  mother  was  very  confiding.  &quot;Funny  enough-I  do.  You  know  what  a  newspaper  addict  I  am.  I  can see  the  photograph  that  was  in  the  papers  often  during  the  trial,  and  then  when  he  was  given  that  ghastly  sen-  tence.  Twelve  years.  .  ..  A  neat,  strong  -a  skeptical  face.  Short  nose,  A  suc-  cessful  face-you  know  what  I  mean!?  He  didn't  look  fanatic.  And  no  beard.  Big  dark  eyes  and  a  brush  cut.  More  like  an  athlete-one  of  those  pictures  of  swimmers,  after  winning  a  race.  Perhaps  it  was  taken  when  he'd  been  swimming-a  photograph  dug  up  somewhere,  probably  from  his  family.  I  wonder  how  he  managed  to  get  hold  of  your  article.  Well,  I  suppose  that  sort  of  academic  journal  could  have  been  in  the  prison  library.  But  how  did  he  have  our  address?&quot;  Harriet  showed  the  envelope,  for-  warded  from  the  journal.  &quot;Well,  it's  really  rather  nice  to  think  that  something  you  wrote  has  given  abreath  of  life  to  someone  like  this  in  prison,  darling?  I  told  you,  you  expressed  yourself  very  well-&quot;  The  girl  smiled.  &quot;I've  nevereven  readPiaget.&quot;  Her  mother  had  not  touched  the  letter-only  read  it  over  Harriet's shoulder.  She  held  muddy  hands  away  from  her  sides.  Piaget  was  dismissed:  &quot;What  does  that  matter?  You're  going  to  write  to  him?&quot;  Harriet  was  waving  the  letter  slowly,  as  if  drying  the  ink  on  it.  &quot;I  suppose  I  must.&quot;  &quot;Poor  young  man.  You  forget  they're  in  there.  Read  about  the  sensa-  tion  in  the  papers  ...and  then  the  years  go  by.&quot;  Pat  Haberman  looked  at  her  hands,  at  the  plastic  boxes  of  mari-  golds;  her  nostrils  moving  at  the  rind-  bitter,  weedy  scent  of  them,  she  re-  called  what  she  had  been  interrupted  at,  and  got  back  on  her  knees.  6C  OW  could  one  refuse?&quot;  Pat  Haberman  flattered  the  dean  goadingly  with  an  assumption  of  the  shared  courage  of  one's  convictions.  She  and  the  dean  often  talk  in  lowered  voices-although  no  one  can  hear  them  in  his  inner  office,  where  he  dictates  letters-of  the  problems  of  their  grown-up  children  as  well  as  the  equally  confidential  problems  of  personality  clashes  among  the  med-  ical-school  staff.  There  was-no  " b"doubt,  although  she  wasn't  going  to  bring  it  up  with  Harriet-the  likeli-  hood  that  one's  name  would  go  into  some  file.  Certainly  there  was  a  record  of  everyone  who  associated  in  any  way  with  a  political  prisoner.  Even  if  the  prisoner  wrote  to  one  out  of  the  blue.  Even  if  one  had  never  so  much  as  met  him.  Among  friends,  or  at  friends'  houses  where  Pat  met  new  people,  there  were  often  appropriate  turns  in  conversation  at  which  she  could  remark  how  won-  derfully  Roland  Carter,  already  four  years  inside  and  eight  to  go,  kept  his  spirit  unbroken  and  his  mind  lively,  could  still  make  jokes-her  daughter,  Harriet,  exchanged  letters  with  him.  This  remark  would  immediately  &quot;place&quot;&quot;  her  and  her  daughter  in  re-  spect  among  people  who  did  not  know  them.  Sometimes  she  added  what  a  pity  it  was  that  more  people  who  talked  liberalism  didn't  make  the  effort  to  write  to  political  prisoners,  show  them  they  still  were  regarded  by  some  as  part  of  the  community.  Did  people  realize  that  in  [REDACTED]  Af-  rica  common  criminals-thieves  and  forgers-were  better  treated  than  pris-  oners  of  conscience?  Roly  Carter  (after  the  first  few  letters,  he  had  be-  gun  to  sign  himself  simply  &quot;Roly&quot;)  would  get  no  remission  of  sentence  for  good  behavior.  She  read  Roland  Carter's  letters-  or,  rather,  Harriet  read  them  aloud  to  her-but  of  course  she  didn't  read  those  Harriet  wrote  back.  Not  that  there  could  be  anything  particularly  personal  in  them;  Harriet  had  never  met  the  fellow,  he  was  married  any-  way  (Pat  had  gone  to  a  newspaper  library,  where  a  friend  of  hers  worked,  and  looked  up  the  file  on  his  trial),  and  her  letters,  like  his,  would  be  read  by  the  prison  censor.  But  Harriet  was  a  grown  woman;  Pat  had  always  respected  her  child's  privacy-in  fact,  had  taught  her,  very  young,  that  one  never  ever  read  anyone  else's  letters,  even  if  they  were  left  lying  about.  Harriet  typed  her  letters  to  Roland  Carter;  maybe  she  sensibly  wanted  to  show  the  authorities  at  Pretoria  Prison  that  all  was  open  to  inspection-no  ambiguities  concealed  by  illegible  handwriting,  her  law-abiding  motive  in  the  correspondence  as  clear  as  the  type.  Pat  supposed  that  the  letters  she  heard  being  composed-Harriet  typed  slowly,  there  were  long  pauses-were  much  like  the  letters  that  came  from  the  prison:  two  young  people  with shared  interests  exchanging  views  on  education  in  Africa.  There  could  be  political  implications  in  the  subject,  heaven  knows,  but  Roland  Carter  seemed  to  assume-and  get  away  with  his  assumption-that  the  names  of  ed-  ucationists  would  belong  to  too  spe-  cialized  a  field  to  be  on  the  list  of  leftist  thinkers  familiar  to  a  prison  censor.  One  Sunday  morning,  while  the  two  women  were  writing  their  Christmas  cards,  Pat  remarked  that  she  sup-  posed  prisoners  would  be  allowed  to  receive  cards.  Harriet  rarely  initiated  anything-a  stillness  in  her  was  undisturbed  by,  quiescently  agreeable  to,  her  mother's  suggestions.  &quot;We  can  try.&quot;  Christmas;  another  year  of  prison  beginning  behind  those  walls.  She  read  through  the  messages  printed  on  the  cards  she  had  bought.  Peace  and  joy  on  Christmas  Day.  Good  wishes  for  the  festive  season  and  may  the  New  Year  bring  every  happiness.  She  leaned  back  in  her  chair  and  blew  softly  through  her  lips.  Her  mother  was  working  efficiently:  cards,  address  book,  sheets  of  stamps.  &quot;Are  you  short'  Here,  take  one  of  these.&quot;  Without  reading  the  message,  Har-  " b"riet  wrote  her  name  below  it  on  a  card  that  showed  an  otter  surfacing  amid  ripples-sold  to  benefit  some  wildlife-  protection  society.  Pat  signed,  too;  Harriet  must  surely  have  mentioned  in  one  of  the  letters  that  she  had  a  mother?  Pat  remembered  to  buy  Piaget  in  paperback  for  what  she  still  thought  of  as  a  stocking  stuffer,  although  it  was  more  than  ten  years  since  Harriet  had  been  young  enough  to  have  a  stocking.  PAT  HasErmaAN  likes  to  work  in  the  garden  for  an  hour  after  she  comes  home  from  work  in  the  afternoon.  When  the  evening  newspaper  flops  through  the  slot  in  the  gate  onto  the  grass,  she  looks  at  the  headlines  while  guiding  the  jet  of  the  hose  with  her  free  hand.  She  feels  at  this  time  of  day  and  in  this  (she  knows)  frail  set  of  circumstances-the  soothing  hiss  of  the  water,  the  nearness  of  sunset  bird-  calls,  and  the  distance  of  the  traffic  breaking  beyond  the  reef  of  the  quiet  suburb-a  balance.  She  ventures  out  to  earn  her  living  every  day  but  is  no  longer  one  of  those  truly  out  there,  driven  by  adrenaline  and  sex  hor-  mones,  surging  along,  black  skins,  white  skins,  inhaling  toxic  ambitions,  the  stresses  of  solving,  of  becoming-  and  what?  The  hour  from  five-thirty  to  six-thirty  is  an  illusion  of  peace  in  middle  age,  just  as  the  innocence  of  [REDACTED]-thrush  calls  and  the  freshness  of  leaves  spattered  by  water  from  the  mu-  nicipal  supply  are  an  illusion  of  un-  destroyed  nature.  Yet  while  she  holds  the  nozzle  of  the  hose  against  the  snaking  energy  of  piped  water's  pres-  sure  and  reads  that  a  diplomat  has  been  kidnapped,  that  oil  has  again  been  ransomed  in  the  holy  money  war  between  the  Arabs  and  the  West,  even  that  leaders  of  the  black  workers'  walkout  at  a  steel  foundry  in  the  city  are  being  detained  by  the  police,  there  is  this  interlude  of  feeling  herself  re-  gard  from  a  base  of  the  calm  and  eternal  what  is  feverish  and  constantly  whirling  away,  Later  she  will  read  the  paper  with  the  background  knowledge,  the  watchfulness,  the  sense  of  con-  tinuity  with  statements  and  struggles  of  black  and  white  that  reassert  in-  volvement  and  rescue  her  from  that  strange,  pleasant  lapse-dangerous  white  suburban  amnesia.  Harriet  is  out  there;  she  is  not  deaf-  ened  by  the  music  in  the  discotheques,  she  is  not  afraid  of  becoming  addicted  to  drugs.  The  crack  with  which  the  white  personality  splits  and  threatens  to  dribble  its  endowment  like  a  pome-  granate  is  a  long  way  off  for  her,  and  perhaps  there  won't  be  time  enough  left  for  it  ever  to  happen.  When  she  comes  home  she  is  on  the  telephone,  or  putting  in  some  work  on  her  thesis,  or  washing  her  hair  preparatory  to  go-  ing  outagain,  in  the  way  of  young  girls.  On  an  evening  like  any  other,  the  headline  Pat  saw  at  once  was  not  the  boldest  banner;  that  had  to  do  with  a  leap  in  the  price  of  gold.  This  head-  line  was  across  a  double  column  to  the  side  of  the  front  page;  she  read  it  as  shepicked  up  in  her  wet  hand  the  paper  from  the  grass  she  had  just  watered.  Three  long-term  political  prisoners  had  escaped  from  Pretoria  Prison.  The  second  name  was  that  of  Roland  Carter.  They  had  all  been  locked  in  their  cells  as  usual  at  4  p.m.  The  warder  on  night  patrol  had  been  fooled  by  dummy  bundles  placed  in  their  beds.  Their  disappearance  was  discovered  only  at  7  a.M.;  possibly  they  had  aten-  or  twelve-hour  start  on  the  countrywide  search,  the  border-post  and  airport  checks  set  up  to  catch  them.  Washing  her  hair:  it  was  over  the  basin  in  the  bathroom  that  Pat  found  Harriet.  The  girl  looked  up  to  see  her  " b"mother's  face  swollen  with  the  sen-  sation  of  what  she  had  to  tell,  in  a  whisper,  shoulders  hunched:  &quot;He's  out.&quot;  Pat  drew  a  slithering  breath  of  glee  and  hugged  thepaper.  &quot;He's  es-  caped.&quot;  While  Harriet  read  the  report,  her  mother  was  giggling,  shaking  her  clasped  hands,  unable  to  keep  still.  &quot;Isn't  it  great?  Good  for  them!  Mar-  vellous!  It  shows  you-with  enough  courage,  people  never  give  up.&quot;  She  speculated  over  the  spitting  steak  in  the  pan,  and  between  stove  and  kitch-  en  nook,  where  they  ate:  &quot;How  many  hours  to  Swaziland?  But  to  the  Bo-  tswana  border-they  could  be  there  in  five.  Supposing  they  broke  out  by  mid-  night,  they  could  have  been  across  be-  fore  the  dummies  had  even  been  dis-  covered.&quot;  Harriet  was  sent  to  fetch  the  [REDACTED]  map  out  of  the  glove  box  in  Pat's  car,.  &quot;Here's  to  Roly&quot;:  Pat  clinked  glasses  with  Harriet,  the  girl  who  had  kept  his  spirits  up,  faithfully  written  to  him  for  more  than  a  year.  The  bottle  of  wine  Pat  had  opened  stood  next  to  the  map,  and  various  convenient  borders  were  traced  from  the  central  point  of  Pretoria.  The  men  might  be  on  a  plane  to  Europe  by  now.  From  Maputo  in  Mozambique;  from  Gaborone  in  Botswana.  If  they  were  making  for  Europe  via  Zambia,  they  probably  hadn't  arrived  in  Lusaka  yet.  The  radio  was  clicked  on  for  the  news  at  nine;  there  was  no  news:  still  at  large-free.  Free!  &quot;What  will  they  do  to  him  if  they  catch  him?&quot;  The  girl's  question  sounded  unfair.  &quot;Oh  what.has  he  to  lose?  I  suppose  some  sort  of  deprivation,  solitary  con-  finement.  He  had  nearly  seven  years  in  there  still  ahead  of  him  anyway.&quot;  The  girl  depended  on  her  mother,  so  well  informed  about  the  strategies  of  prisoners  on  the  run  and  their  pur-  suers.  &quot;The  police  wouldn't  shoot  them?&quot;  Her  mother  bunched  her  mouth,  frowning,  shaking  her  head  in  total  reassurance  of  the  absurdity  of  the  idea,  as  she  had  when  withholding  from  the  child  something  unpleasant  she  surely  didn't  need  to  know.  The  thought-onuly  if  they  were  to  resist  capture-was  transformed:  &quot;They'd  go  back  where  they  were,  that's  all.&quot;  Pat  appeared  at  sixin  the  morning,  when  the  first  news  of  the  day  was     broadcast,  gliding  into  her  daugh-  ter's  room  with  the  transistor  nursed  beside  her  ear.  The  curtains  were  still  drawn.  Harriet  opened  her  eyes  and  lay  on  her  back,  obedient  but  not  awake.  Pat  raised  her  eyebrows  high  and  held  up  her  free  hand  to  stay  any  distraction  when  the  radio  voice  referred  to  the  jailbreakers.  On  the  second  day  a  warder  had  been  taken  into  custody  on  a  charge  of  aiding  and  abetting.  &quot;Naturally-  without  help  from  inside,  how  could  they  have  managed?  And  there  must  have  been  brilliant  contingency  plan-  ning-*&quot;  &quot;What's  that?&quot;  &quot;People  outside,  ready  for  weeks  or  even  months,  maybe,  to  act  at  a  given  signal  exactly  as  decided  upon.  Cars,  a  hideout,  money-maybe  they've  even  split  up,  for  safety.&quot;  Harriet  slowly  came  to,  out  of  that  deep,  helpless  morning  sleep  of  the  young,  who  are  never  tired  at  night.  &quot;Not  his  family.&quot;  &quot;No-o!  Good  lord,  no.  He  wouldn't  dare  get  in  touch  with  them.&quot;  (\xe2\x80\x98Who?\xe2\x80\x99)  &quot;I  don't  know  -associates;  it'll  be  all  set  up.  People  they  can  trust.  Maybe  from  abroad.  Somebody  could  even  have  been  brought  into  the  country  special-  ly.  ...&quot;  After  a  week,  the  three  escaped  men  were  still  at  large.  At  first  the  radio  repeated  the  same  news:  that  they  were  believed  to  be  heading  for  a  neighboring  country.  Then  no  mention  of  themwas  made  at  all.  The  newspapers  re-  phrased  the  little  in-  formation  the  police  had  released;  the  au-  thorities  in  the  neigh-  boring  countries  of  traditional  political  refuge  denied  that  the  men  had  entered  their  territories.  The  warder  appeared  in  court,  was  charged  and  remanded.  There  were  rumors  that  one  or  another  of  the  three  had  been  seen  in  Gaborone,  Lusaka,  or  Maputo.  &quot;Refugee  " b"circles&quot;  and  exiled  political  organiza-  tions  in  [REDACTED]  were  &quot;jubilant&quot;  but  would  make  no  statement  until  the  men  were  safely  out  of  Africa.  &quot;One  of  them's  the  young  man  Harriet  used  to  write  to-Roland  Carter,  you  know.&quot;  The  dean  had  heard  about  that  cor-  respondence  often  enough.  &quot;I  shouldn't  be  too  eager  to  spread  that  piece  of  information  if  I  were  you,  Pat.  The  next  thing,  you'll  have  the  police  coming  round.&quot;  She  tugged  smilingly  at  her  earring;  at  his  lily-liveredness.  &quot;They've  read  all  the  letters.  She's  got  nothing  to  hide.  They're  welcome.&quot;  But  the  police  didn't  come;  and  still  the  men  were  not  captured.  Pat  and  Harriet  Haberman  did  not  know  enough  about  Roland  Carter  to  keep  talking  of  him  at  every  meal  they  shared.  Pat  had  asked  Harriet  whether  there  was  ever  any  kind  of  inkling,  anything  at  all  in  the  letters  that  sug-  gested  he  might...?  Nothing  ex-  plicit,  of  course,  but  one  of  those  ob-  lique  chance  remarks  one  sometimes  lets  slip,  could  let  slip,  even  in  a  letter  that  was  going  to  be  read  by  a  prison  censor?  But  Harriet  said  there  was  nothing  she  could  think  of;  nothing.  &quot;You  read  the  letters,  Mum.&quot;  It  was  so.  Yet  pulling  up  the  petu-  nias  and  marigolds  that  she  grew  for  summer  and  digging  over  the  earth  in  preparation  for  daffodils  and  freesias,  Pat  heard  or  mouthed  phrases  from  the  letters.  People  of  the  same  generation  understand  things  differently  from  the  way  they  are  understood  by  another  generation.  Turns  of  phrase.  Vocabu-  lary-words  change  meanings  (take  the  adjective  &quot;gay&quot;).  The  phrases  presented  themselves  to  her  from  somewhere.  As  she  dug  and  then  forked  and  raked,  hearing  a  sizzling  in  her  ears,  closer  than  the  birdcalls,  from  the  dizzying  effort,  sometimes  she  had  the  feeling  that  he  was  think-  ing  of  her,  rather  than  she  of  him-  although  he  didn't  know  her,  it  was  not  to  her  he  had  written.  Shemost  likely  never  had  been  mentioned;  if  he  had  not  been  allowed  to  receive  the  Christmas  card  that  time,  he  might  not  know  she  existed.  Somewhere  out  there  in  the  distant  traffic,  the  traffic  of  the  world,  their  prisoner,  hers  and  Harriet's-he  existed  as  another  be-  ing,  who  was  no  longer  a  prisoner.  He  suffered,  perhaps.  He  hid.  He  was  hungry,  and  hunted.  Literally:  they  used  dogswith  faithful  names  like     Wagter,  Boetie-Watchman,  Brother  -who  attacked  on  command.  He  prowled  in  those  swamps  of  the  city,  the  Hillbrow  bars  where  everybody  was  immigrant  and  a  stranger,  the  drinking  places  of  blacks  in  urine-  smelling  lanes  where  nameless  whites  could  buy  pot,  or  he  yanked  again  and  again  at  the  handle  of  a  fruit  machine,  bullying  luck,  one  among  the  crowds  in  their  uniform  of  humorous  T-shirts  in  a  casino  across  the  border,  his  dan-  ger  ticking  for  him,  a  parcel  bomb  left  in  a  gold  plastic  bag  of  exactly  the  type  their  women  carried.  Her  grip  on  the  commonplace  and  eternal,  taken  with  this  earth  that  she  handled,  lost  its  meaning.  It  was  only  dirt  her  hands  were  coated  in,  as  a  black  servant's  hands  are  coated  with  white  gloves  when  he  waits  at  tablein  certain  pre-  tentious  houses  (Haberman's).  Some-  where  out  there  beyond  her  garden,  a  suburban  burglar  alarm  went  hysteri-  " b"cal  and  there  was  the  flying  wail  of  ambulances  and  police  cars.  The  bulbs  she  had  saved  from  the  year  before  were  going  to  be  buried  in  this  cloy-  ing,  suffocating  earth  and  would  live  again,  but  when  a  human  being  is  at  last  shut  in  it,  she  will  never  break  out.  She  had  begun  to  check  the  doors  and  windows  before  turning  out  her  bedroom  light  at  night.  She  held  her  breath,  moving  in  Harriet's  room,  but  the  girl  did  not  know  she  was  there.  She  bolted  the  gate,  which  they  had  never  bothered  to  do,  and  since  she  was  sure  to  be  awake  first  in  the  morn-  ings,  could  unbolt  it  again  before  her  daughter  got  up.  Once,  Harriet  com-  plained  that  her  room  was  stuffy;  she  had  found  her  window  shut.  Yes,  her  mother  had  thought  she'd  heard  some-  thing-that  old  tomcat  who  used  to  jump  in  and  had  once  pissed  against  Harriet's  dressing  gown-so  she  had  got  up  in  the  night  to  close  it.  They  laughed  a  little  at  the  reminder  of  the  dreadful  cat.  &quot;With  the  window  shut,  the  smell  still  comes  back.&quot;  &quot;I'm  sorry,  darling.  I'll  shampoo  that  bit  ofcarpet  again.&quot;  If  Harriet  noticed  that  all  doors  and  windows  were  locked  now,  she  said  nothing.  One  early  morning  when  Pat  went  across  the  lawn  in  pajamas  to  slide  back  the  bolt,  the  morning  paper  was  not  on  the  grass-it  must  have  fallen  backwards  through  the  slot.  She  opened  the  gate.  The  paper  was  there  outside,  on  the  pavement;  as  she  bent  for  it,  her  eyes  were  on  a  level  with  a  bundle  that  had  been  left  half  con-  cealed  (if  you  had  been  upright,  chances  were  you  would  have  missed  it)  by  the  jasmine  that  incorporated  in  its  thicket  an  old  wire  fence  between  the  garden  and  a  lane  that  divided  their  cottage  from  the  next  proper-  ty.  Placed,  not  left.  The  unisex  cloth-  ing  in  a  tramp's  bundle  was  Har-  riet's  jeans,  the  too  big  pair  she  hard-  ly  wore,  the  Mykonos  fisherman's  sweater  from  her  trip,  the  men's  thick  socks  it  was  a  fad  for  young  girls  to  wear  with  clogs.  In  just  this  way  Har-  riet  had  put  out  milk  for  the  fairies  (or  stray  cats?)  when  she  was  a  little  girl.  Shehad  believed  in  the  43616e616461er  bunny  when  on  43616e616461er  morning  she  found  chocolate  eggs  hidden  like  this....  The  paper  Pat  held  carried  a  report  from  reliable  sources  that  the  Russians  had  planned  and  executed  the  prison  break  and  the  three  political  prisoners  were  believed  to  be  already  in  [REDACTED].  Whether  Harriet  had  taken  the  offering  back  in  again  herself,  or  whether  one  of  the  white  tramps  or  black  out-of-  works  who  frequented  the  lane  had  had  a  windfall,  the  bundle  was  not  there  two  days  later,  Pat  said  nothing-just  as,  long  ago,  she  hadn't  wanted  to  make  the  child  feel  foolish.  N  the  evening  a  man  ap-  peared  at  the  open  kitchen  door,  Harriet  did  not  know  who  it  was,  but  Pat  Haber-  man  recognized  him  instant,  ly.  Hiccups  of  fear  loosed  in-  side  her.  They  were  uncon-  trollable,  but  her  body  stood  there  and  barred  what  was  beyond  the  limit,  more  than  could  be  expected  or  asked.  He  saw  she  knew  him,  drew  down  a  smile  in  acknowl-  edgment  of  the  claim  he  rep-  resented,  and,  stepping  inside,  said,  &quot;You  are  alone?&quot;  And  at  that,  Harriet  stood  up  calmly  as  if  she  had  heard  her  name  called,  and  went  to  close  the  door  behind  him.  Liquid  flashes  like  the  sweeps  of  heat  that  had  gone  through  her  blood  at  fifty  took  Pat  to  her  bedroom.  She  locked  that  door,  wanted  to  beat  upon  it,  whimper.  She  went  and  sat  on  her  bed,  hands  clamped  together  between  her  thighs.  The  walls  that  closed  her  in  were  observing  her.  She  tried  not  to  hear  thevoices  that  came  through  them-even  a  subdued  laugh.  She  stood  up  and  paced  out  the  room  with  the  hesitancy  of  anguish.  To  do  some-  thing  with  her  hands,  she  filled  a  tooth  glass  at  the  washbasin  and,  a  prisoner  tending  his  one  sprig  of  green,  gave  water  to  the  pot  of  African  violets  for  what  she  had  done,  done  to  her  dar-  ling  girl,  done  for. "