  UNCLES  HE  house  was  stuffed  with  un-  cles.  They  came  down  from  Pe-  toskey,  up  from  Lansing  and  Saginaw,  across  from  Bay  City.  They  arrived  sheepishly,  shuffling  their  shoes,  but  soon  were  testing  the  floor-  boards,  huffing  at  the  windows,  plump-  ing  the  seat  cushions.  They  lit  cigars,  checked  the  furnace,  warned  nephews  about  the  government.  They  violated  bowls  of  peanuts,  potato  salad,  pickles,  and  mayonnaise  that  had  been  left  on  the  kitchen  counter  by  the  aunts.  The  bay  stretched  out  like  table  glass,  with  small  advancing  cracks  of  waves.  The  |  house  was  ten  feet  from  the  shore,  propped  on  a  bank  of  earth,  with  wooden  stairs  leading  down  to  the  beach.  The  first  uncle  was  a  tall,  lean  cer-  tified  public  accountant  who  drove  a  Chevrolet  and  always  looked  as  if  he  was  apologizing  for  something.  The  second  uncle  was  short  and  squat,  looked  like  a  troll,  and  drove  Mercurys  backward  through  the  alleys  in  Bay  City  for  a  used-car  dealer.  He  believed  that  it  would  reduce  the  mileage  on  the  odometer.  The  third  uncle  sold  bicycle  reflectors  and  wrenchesfrom  a  hardware  store  in  Cadillac.  He  had  the  ability  to  materialize  in  any  picture  taken  within  a  hundred-yard  radius  of  his  house.  The  fourth  uncle  owned  a  cheese  factory;  he  was  tall  as  a  sun-  flower,  full  of  elbows,  knees,  and  Adam's  apples.  Every  Labor  Day  they  appeared,  like  fireflies,  at  the  big  summer  house  on  the  bay  and  told  enormous  lies,  which  were  swallowed  like  gooseberries.  Tus  Car-Eatinco  SwamPr  The  uncle  who  worked  for  the  used-car  dealer  once  sold  a  1955  Pack-  ard  Clipper  Custom  to  a  man  and,  as  he  was  delivering  it,  stuck  the  car  in  a  ditch.  He  went  to  get  a  tow  truck  and  when  he  came  back  the  Packard  had  swum  away.  A  farmer  had  turned  on  his  irrigation  pumps  and  flooded  the  ditch.  The  uncle  arrived  justin  time  to  see  the  Packard  being  eaten  by  a  swamp.  The  chrome  hood  ornament,  a  standing  cormorant,  disappeared  be-  neath  the  mud  as  he  came  running  up.  But  he  was  not  as  upset  as  he  would  have  been  if  the  swamp  had  eaten  a  Mercury.  He  had  been  a  Mercury  man  ever  since  the  first  one  appeared,  in  the  thirties,  and  if  you  said  that  a  Mercury  was  just  a  Ford  with  forty-five  cents  more  chrome  in  the  grille  he  would  threaten  you  with  a  Lithuanian  knife  he  brought  over  from  the  Baltic.  He  was  a  Lithuanian  German  who  spoke  Russian  and  hated  the  czar  and  the  [REDACTED].  He  came  to  this  country  to  find  his  fortune,  and  instead  found  Mercurys  and  my  aunt.  He  set  up  a  tent  on  the  other  side  of  the  swamp  and  waited  for  the  mud  to  burp  the  Packard  up.  The  cheese  uncle  joined  him,  and  the  two  of  them  sat  for  a  week  smoking  Dutch  Masters  and  saving  the  bands,  which  they  looped  over  pencils  and  stuck  in  the  dash-  board  of  the  cheese  uncle's  car.  At  night,  through  the  mist,  the  Mercury  uncle  dreamed  he  saw  [REDACTED]  on  snowshoes  sliding  across  the  mud  with  long  rifles  slung  across  their  backs  and  black  Greek  sailor  caps  on  their  heads.  The  uncles  sat,  smoked,  and  dreamed  like  this  for  days.  The  cheese  uncle  wanted  to  finance  a  scuba  diver  to  find  out  just  where  the  Packard  was.  The  Mercury  uncle  didn't  want  to  hear  about  it.  He  was  a  testy  little  man,  and  had  a  craving  to  go  back  to  Bay  City  and  put  a  Mercury  in  reverse.  He  went  back,  and  a  week  later  got  a  telegram  saying  the  Packard  had  surfaced.  There  was  a  dead  goat  in  the  trunk.  No  one  knew  where  it  had  come  from.  Goats  had  been  driven  out  of  the  swamp  years  before,  and  the  nearest  goat  farm  was  in  the  next  state.  My  uncle  was  at  a  loss  to  explain,  though  he  thought  that  if  he  mounted  the  goat's  head  victoriously  in  his  den  it  would  somehow  make  more  real  the  whole  idea  of  goats  in  Packards.  Firm  in  his  principles,  whatever  they  were,  he  was  a  Baltic  Napoleon.  There  was  no  end  to  this  story.  It  was  stopped  in  midair,  a  balloon  of  possibilities,  half  fulfilled.  Every  time  they  were  pressed  for  the  end  of  the  story  the  uncles  yawned  in  unison,  like  the  Ink  Spots.  The  goat  in  the  Pack-  ard  was  like  the  Mercury  in  my  uncle.  Trapped  in  the  trunk,  the  goat  could  never  fully  achieve  its  goatness,  while  my  uncle  could  never  realize  his  for-  tune  when  doomed  to  a  life  in  reverse.  As  the  story  stopped,  and  then  grew  in  my  mind  by  stopping,  the  house  con-  tinued  to  fill  up  with  uncles.  They  shuffled  about  the  huge  wooden  house,  which  seemed  like  a  summer  boat  with  slats.  Tue  Traveruincg  Lake  Every  summer  the  uncles  went  to  Lake  St.  Clair  to  fish.  My  father  had  a  cabin  on  the  edge  of  the  lake  with  thirteen  feet  of  shoreline.  Inside  the  cabin  was  a  large  muskie,  mounted  and  varnished.  It  had  the  imprint  of  a    hammer  in  its  head.  My  father  had  hit  the  fish  with  a  hammer  because,  after  he  caught  it,  it  kept  walking  around  in  the  boat.  It  refused  to  lie  down.  The  lake  walked,  too.  One  summer  they  went  up  there  and  thelake  was  gone.  There  was  just  a  big  hole,  with  boats  lying  in  the  mud.  Sticking  up  from  the  mud  were  tractor  tires  and  cow  bones  and  a  hay  baler.  At  first  my  father  was  going  to  move  the  cabin,  but  then  he  thought  the  lake  would  come  back.  He  left  the  cabin  where  it  was,  with  thir-  teen  feet  of  mudline  instead  of  thirteen  feet  of  shoreline.  He  waited  for  ten  years.  Did  thelake  ever  come  back?  I  was  the  only  one  interested.  The  uncles  were  playing  Parcheesi.  For  my  C.P.A.  uncle  the  question  was  like  a  slow  freight  on  the  way  to  his  brain.  He  was  ninety-one  years  old,  and  had  white  hair  growing  on  the  bottom  of  his  ears.  He  stood  transfixed,  like  a  paperweight-one  of  those  plastic  domes  with  liquid  inside.  He  turned  on  one  foot,  using  the  other  as  a  pivot.  &quot;Goats  are  always  dirty,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;That's  the  way  they  are,  and  you  can't  do  anything  about  that.&quot;  V  anIsHEp  The  cheese  uncle  could  also  have  been  my  tomato  uncle,  because  in  addi-  tion  to  the  cheese  factory  he  owned  a  tomato  farmand  made  tomato  paste  and  shipped  it  to  Heinz.  He  loved  tomatoes.  He  painted  his  house  red,  wore  tomato-red  suits,  and  married  a  woman  with  red  hair.  &quot;A  bad  year  for  tomatoes  means  nothing  to  me,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  just  store  them,  stamp  on  them,  and  use  the  pulp.  Nothing  goes  to  waste.  We  even  usethe  stem.&quot;  He  introduced  a  tomato  cheese,  which  went  absolutely  nowhere,  and  was  on  the  point  of  introducing  toma-  to  ice  cream  when  his  banker  pulled  out.  He  was  also  involved  in  an  urban-  renewal  project  in  Saginaw.  He  want-  ed  to  take  over  a  city  block  to  expand  his  farm.  He  couldn't  wait  for  the  bulldozers  or  the  contractors  or  the  city  officials,  and  one  day  the  block  just  disappeared.  In  its  place  was  a  wide  but  not  very  deep  hole.  People  figured  he  was  responsible,  and  he  was  be-  sieged  by  real-estate  speculators  and  relatives  of  families  who  used  to  live  on  the  block.  No  one  knew  where  the  block  had  gone.  He  never  said.  Harpware  There  is  a  difference  between  a  stomach  and  a  belly.  A  stomach  is  what  sticks  out  over  the  belt.  A  belly  sticks  out  under  the  belt.  The  hard-  ware  uncle  had  a  belly.  He  loved  hard-  ware.  His  store  was  full  of  long,  wide  tables  and  narrow  aisles  jammed  with  obscure  and  complicated  metal  and  chrome  fixtures  that  converted  one  thing  into  another  thing,  or  replaced  three  fixtures  with  two,  or  changed  a  stream  to  a  spray,  or  concentrated  a  year's  energy  in  one  spot,  making  it  hot  enough  to  burn  its  way  through  ce-  ment.  He  also  sold  bicycles,  tires,  and  picnic  hampers.  He  made  keys.  Sold  bags  of  cement.  Embossed  letters  on  plastic  and  sealed  narrow  things  inside.  He  cut  chain,  opened  locks,  sold  bullets.  In  the  back  of  his  store  he  sat  on  a  wooden  swivel  chair.  He  was  on  top  of  a  mountain  of  hardware.  People  had  to  scramble  over  nuts  and  bolts  and  ad-  justable  wrenches  tofind  him.  It  was  easier  to  reach  him  by  phone.  One  summer  he  appeared  in  every  single  picture  taken  in  Cadillac.  By  official  count,  this  was  one  thousand  seven  hundred  and  sixty-three,  if  you  include  two  blurred  Instamatic  shots  taken  by  a  couple  from  Madison  Heights.  Those  who  didn't  know  my  uncle  wondered  how  his  face  got  in  their  pictures,  and  then  reasoned  that  the  darkroom  had  somehow  acciden-  tally  inserted  it-by  overlapping  a  negative,  or  something  like  that.  Or  perhaps  they  blamed  double  exposures.  People  who  knew  him  just  figured  they  had  accidentally  taken  his  picture.  He  even  appeared  in  several  underwater  shots  taken  in  Lake  Cadillac.  No  one  knew  how  he  did  it.  No  one  asked.  No  one  knew  that  he  was  in  anyone  else's  pictures.  This  was  years  ago.  They're  all  gone  now.  But  in  my  mind  the  huge  house  near  the  bay  is  still  jarnmed  with  uncles.  They  are  spilling  out  the  win-  dows,  popping  out  the  doors.  They  grlll  hamburgers  and  franks,  sizzle  beans,  and  chase  each  other  around  the  house.  The  fat  on  their  ankles  falls  over  the  sides  of  their  tight  shoes.  They  drink  beer  and  give  me  quarters.  They  sit  on  the  porch  and  cry  over  the  sunset.  They  tip  over  the  canoe,  get  paint  on  the  window,  break  the  ham-  mock.  So  many  uncles  I  hardly  know  what  to  do  with  them.  The  C.P.A.  uncle  has  never  seen  so  many  uncles.  The  cheese  uncle  is  ter-  rifed.  The  Mercury  uncle  is  angry.  He  hasn't  seen  a  single  Mercury  parked  on  the  road.  The  hardware  un-  cle  winks  at  me.  &quot;People  are  taking  many  pictures,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;How  would  you  like  to  be  in  every  one  of  them?&quot;  