 b"I  COULD  be  getting  married  soon.  The  fellow  is  no  Adonis,  but  what  do  I  care  about  that?  I'd  be  leav-  ing  my  job  at  the  high  school.  I  teach  art.  In  fact,  I'd  be  leaving  Jewel  if  I  got  married.  I  have  six  smart  students,  total,  but  only  two  with  any  talent,  both  at  third  period.  One  of  them  might  make  it  out  of  here  someday.  I  don't  know.  Jewel  is  coal  mining,  and  it's  infuriatingly  true  that  all  the  kids  end  up  in  the  mine.  One  of  my  two  talented  students  is  a  girl.  She's  involved  with  the  mine  already-works  after  school  driving  acoal  truck  for  them.  I've  had  her  in  class  since  her  freshman  year.  She's  got  a  ready  mind  that  would  have  wowed  them  at  the  design  school  in  Rhode  Island  where  I  took  a  de-  gree  tenor  so  years  ago.  &quot;Dirty  Thoughts,&quot;  she  titles  all  her  pieces,  one  after  another.  &quot;Here's  D.T.  189,&quot;  she'll  say  to  me,  holding  up  some  contraption.  She  does  very  clever  work  with  plaster  and  torn  paper  bags.  Jack's  the  name  of  the  man  I  might  marry.  He's  a  sharp  lawyer.  He  looks  kind  of  like  a  poor  relation,  but  juries  feel  cozy  and  re-  laxed  with  him.  They  go  his  way  as  if  he  were  a  cousin  they're  trying  to  help  along.  Jack's  a  miner's  best  friend.  He  has  acase  pend-  ing  now  about  this  mam-  moth  rock  that's  hanging  near  the  top  of  a  mountain  out  on  the  edge  of  town.  And  the  mountain's  on  fire  inside.  There's  a  seam  of  coal  in  it  that's  been  burn-  ing  for  over  a  year,  break-  ing  the  mountain's  back,  and  someday  the  rock's  going  to  come  tumbling  straight  down  and  smush  the  Benjamin  house,  it  looks  like,  and  maybe  tear  out  part  of  the  neighbor-  hood.  The  whole  Benja-  min  family  has  seen  this  in  their  dreams.  &quot;Hit  the  Company  [REDACTED];  Jack  says,  &quot;before  the  rock  arrives.&quot;  Jack  first  met  me  when  a  student  was  killed  a  cou-  ple  of  years  ago  and  the  boy's  parents  hired  Jack  to  file  suit  against  the  Company.  As  I  understood  it,  there  were  these  posts  every  few  or  so  feet  in  the  mine,  and  the  Company  had  saved  a  buck  skipping  every  third  post.  Well,  Rick,  the  boy-he  was  a  senior  at  school  buthe  worked  after-  noon  half-shifts  in  the  mine-was  down  in  the  shaft  one  day,  and  some  ceiling  where  there  wasn't  a  post  caved  in  and  he  died  on  the  spot.  Rick  was  a  kid  who  was  never  going  to  be  a  miner.  His  ceramics,  done  for  me,  weren't  bad,  when  they  didn't  explode  in  the  kiln.  Jack  asked  me  out  forcoffee  one  of  those  days  when  court  was  in  recess.  We  blew  a  couple  hours  at  the  Ballpark  Lounge,  playing  a  computer  game  called  Space  Invaders.  'You  could  win  money  at  this,&quot;  Jack  said.  &quot;You  ought  to  have  your  own  machine.&quot;  Don't  I  wish.  That's  how  Jack  thinks:  big.  My  gifted  student  who  might  get  out  of  Jewel  someday  is  Michael   Fitch.  &quot;Maybe  I'm  nuts,&quot;  he  saidto  me  after  homeroom  had  cleared  out  one  morning.  I  have  him  for  art  and  homeroom.  &quot;I  don't  mind,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;'There's  a  lot  of  noise  because  I  won't  say  the  pledge  of  allegiance  in  assemblies,&quot;  Michael  said.  &quot;I  refuse.&quot;  &quot;You  got  to  stay  alert  from  now  on,  Michael,&quot;  I  told  him.  &quot;For  the  next  little  bit,  you'll  have  to  be  on  your  toes.&quot;  He  took  a  pink  stick  of  chalk  to  the  blackboard  and  worked  in  thick,  po-  rous  contours.  Clouds,  maybe.  &quot;I  think  the  entire  town's  afraid  of  me,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Probably,&quot;  I  said.  Why  would  anyone  balk  at  the  pledge?  JACK  and  I  would  go  livein  [REDACTED]  if  we  got  married.  We've  talked  about  being  there  by  the  end  of  August.  He  even  has  a  house  lined  up.  Actually,  it's  half  a  house.  The  downstairs  is  a  crisis  center  where  they  take  &quot;hot  line&quot;  calls.  Jack  says  I  could  work  there,  if  I  want  to  work.  He  got  me  to  spend  an  afternoon  with  the  people,  learning  their  pro-  cedure.  They  listen  to  these  calls,  I  found  out,  and  then  they  more  or  less  repeat  back  whatever  the  caller's  just  said.  Such  as  &quot;You  discovered  your  dearest  friend  in  bed  with  your  husband.&quot;  Then  they  add  something  like  &quot;You  sound  angry.&quot;  Jack  thinks  I'd  be  terrific  at  this  sort  of  thing.  He  doesn't  realize  my  worst  moments  as  a  teacher  are  when  somebody  confides  in  me.  Brad  Foley,  for  ex-  ample.  He  confessed  about  some  stuff  he  was  going  through  with  his  dad,  and  when  we  were  all  finished  talking,  Brad,  crying,  asked  if  he  could  kiss  me.  I  said  he  could  hug  me,  the  poor  thing,  but  just  for  a  second.  I  wouldn't  mind  waving  goodbye  to  Jewel,  but  it  would  be  tough  leaving  my  family.  Mom's  all  right  here,  and  so  is  Russell,  my  big  brother.  Russell  recent,  ly  got  Mom  a  new  clothes  washer.  He  does  things  like  " b"that,  and  they're  a  very  contented  couple.  Russell's  nuts,  though.  I  mean,  here's  a  guy  working  in  three  feet  of  coal  every  day,  contend-  ing  with  a  couple  kinds  of  gases  that  are  there,  also  the  dust  from  the  machines,  and  all  he  wants  is  to  be  allowed  to  smoke  cigarettes.  He  says  it  isn't  because  of  methane  that  you  can't  smoke  in  the  mine,  it's  dollars.  Most  of  the  min-  ers  roll  their  own  ciga-  rettes,  see,  which  takes  a  minute  or  two.  So  you  figure  a  couple  of  dozen  smokes  would  cost  the  Company  a  half  hour's  time  every  shift.  I  get  sad  for  Russell.  The  biggest  achieve-  ment  inhis  life  is  being  respectable.  He'd  cheat  and  lie  before  he'd  do  anything  that's  frowned  upon.  But  I  was  always  re-  spectable,  I  admit.  T'wo  years  in  a  row  I  won  the  Jaycees'  Good  Citizenship  award-  Women's  Branch.  Really,  though,  that  was  for  my  dad.  I  couldn't  like  Dad,  but  I  often  pleased  him.  He  was  superstitious  about  women  ever  work-  ing  in  the  mines,  and  very  confident  about  his  opinions,  which  weren't  backed  by  anything  but  his  fears.  He  would  hate  that  there  are  five  women  down  there  now.  If  he  were  alive,  he'd  be  yelling  about  it.  The  women  won't  last  long.  They'll  get  sick  or  quit  for  some  rea-  son.  You  can't  blame  them-it's  no  fun  making  everyone  nervous.  My  fianc\xc3\xa9  doesn't  get  too  excited  or  too  blue.  He  won't  allow  himself.  He's  learned  to  take  comfort  in  small  things.  Say,  if  he  finds  a  word  he  likes  he  speaks  it  with  relish.  He  makes  you  enjoy  the  word  with  him-its  aptness  or  strength.  &quot;I  like  a  shower  head  that  throws  an  aggressive  spray,&quot;  he  says,  and  leans  on  that  word  &quot;aggressive.&quot;  Or  he  tells  you  that  for  supper  he  can  get  by  gladly  with  a  plate  of  fresh  yellow  tomatoes  and  just  a  mug  of  coffee,  so  long  as  the  coffee  is  &quot;pitchy.&quot;  One  thing  that  bothers  me  about  leaving  Jewel  is  that  I  just  wall-  papered  my  bedroom  at  Mom's.  The  wallpaper  I  put  up  has  a  poppy  pattern  that's  like  Matisse.  [REDACTED]  wouldn't  thrill  Jack  for  long,  I  bet.  He's  headed  for  growth:  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  D.C.  You  name  it  and  it  went  wrong  for  me  up  in  Rhode  Island.  I  got  mangled  or  something.  I  was  at  the  School  of  Design  there.  I  finally  did  graduate,  or  some  version  of  me  graduated.  I  really  wasn't  present.  I'd  be  walking  on  Thayer  Street  and  all  of  a  sudden  realize  I  was  looking  for  my  reflection  in  every  shopwindow.  Those  who  say  you  can't  go  home  again  haven't  been  to  Jewel.  Anyway,  what  can  you  do  but  go  home?  Back  in  Jewel  again-surprise-I  was  fine.  Imagine  teaching  at  the  same  high  school  where  you  and  your  whole  fam-  ily  went-it  can't  be  good.  I  figured  out  my  dad  was  a  freshman  there  in  1924.  Some  days,  the  Rhode  Island  thing  seems  like  a  dream.  I'll  be  pushing  a  cart  around  the  market  here,  say,  and  it  comes  to  me  that  I  know  all  the people  in  the  store-first  and  last  names.  I  know  the  meat  cutter.  I  was  a  Camp  Fire  Girl  with  Marsha,  who  works  the  checkout  counter.  I  went  through  twelve  grades  with  the  milk  guy,  Lewis,  who  loads  the  dairy  re-  frigerator.  I  even  know  what  grief  sends  his  family  running  to  the  thera-  pist  at  the  new  guidance  center.  And,  outside,  those  Leahy  brothers,  with  their  beef-red  faces,  on  their  bench  on  the  courthouse  lawn  I  know,  and  Sue  Forrest,  pacing  around  carrying  a  sandwich  board  for  her  son's  bakery,  and  the  guys  crowding  the  Ballpark  Lounge  and  the  Servo  Hardware.  I  like  feeling  at  home,  but  I  wish  I  didn't  feel  it  here.  Little  Brad  Foley  sent  me  a  note  of  congratulations  when  he  found  out  from  the  newspaper  that  Jack  and  I  are  engaged.  &quot;I  hope  for  your  sake  you'll  be  moving,&quot;  he  wrote.  The  note's  still  on  the  shelf  of  my  secretary.  I  don't  throw  anything  away.  No,  worse-I  don't  put  anything  away.  All  that  I've  ever  owned  or  had  is  right  out  here  for  you  to  examine.  "