 b"THE  light  is  stunning,  being  of  the  palest  filtered  gold,  and  the  clouds  are  like  vast  confections  made  of  spun  sugar,  ruminative  orbs  that  seem  to  stand  in  the  air,  to  dally,  as  if  they  were  being  held  and  willed  by  some  invisible  puppeteer.  Streams  of  sunshine  issue  over  the  fields  and  the  earth  far  below-fields  that  have  been  mown,  others  that  have  been  har-  vested,  and  still  others  exuding  a  rav-  ishing  life-giving  ochre  color.  Some-  times  a  range  of  mountains  comes  into  view  and  the  peaks  covered  with  last  year's  snow  shine  with  an  awesome  silver-white  brightness.  The  little  houses,  the  winding  rivers,  and  the  ordered  fields  seem  detached  from  the  currents  of  everyday  life,  like  objects  planted  in  an  unpeopled  world.  All  is  suspended,  and  I  think  how  harmoni-  ous  a  life  can  be.  &quot;Ido  not  want  to  land,&quot;  I  say,  and  wonder  if  the  force  and  fierceness  of  the  airliner  as  it  mows  through  the  air  has  the  same  impact  as  the  plow  piercing  the  earth  and  slicing  a  passage  through  it.  As  I  wend  my  way  home,  all  sorts  of  thoughts  come  to  mind,  idle  and  drift-  ing  like  thistledown.  For  no  reason  I  think  of  a  peculiar  and  timid  woman  who  featured  in  my  childhood  and  who  used  to  sit  at  her  piano  and  sing  whenever  visitors  descended  on  her.  Though  they  complained  about  her  screeching  voice,  they  were  glad  that  she  performed  for  them,  that  she  al-  lowed  for  no  gaps  in  the  conversation,  and  that  she  gave  them  something  to  mock.  One  year  she  acquired  a  pair  of  peacocks,  of  whom  she  was  absurdly  proud,  even  boastful.  The  female  con-  tracted  an  ailment  by  which  she  kept  her  eggs  embedded  inside  her,  and,  though  wanting  to,  she  could  not  give  lay.  The  mistress  was  childless,  too,  and  this  caused  her  to  cry  when  she  saw  the  girls  decked  out  in  their  gauzy  veils  and  the  boys,  like  little  men  in  new  suits,  in  the  chapel  at  their  First  Holy  Communion.  Suddenly  I  think  ofa  peacock's  feather  and  in  its  center  an  eye  so  blue,  so  riveting,  that  I  am  reminded  of  those  china  eyes  that  they  sold  on  my  holiday  island,  supposed  to  keep  evil  away.  This  blue  is  metallic  and  belongs  to  a  zone  in  the  bowels  of  the  sea,  where  the  spirits  of  the  Nereids  are  said  to  dwell.  The  sea  by  which  I  sat  and  lulled  myself  on  my  holiday  did  not  seem  at  all  ominous.  It  was  always  inviting,  and  in  the  scorch-  ing  town  it  was  as  soothing  and  bene-  ficial  asa  baptismal  font,  Life  there  would  havebeen  intolerable  without  it.  The  town  itself  was  seething  with  heat  and  the  small  houses  were  like  white  cubes  that  bristled  in  the  heat.  The  only  haven  was  inside  the  Byzantine  church,  whose  dun-gold  quiet  sug-  gested  dusk-a  dusk  in  which  moths  flew  about  and  the  faces  of  saints  carved  on  burnished  wood  looked  out  at  visitors  with  a  resigned  and  temper-  ate  beauty.  A  gnarled  old  beggar  woman  pre-  sided  at  the  church  door  and  upon  receiving  a  coin  sheranted  in  ecstasy,  delivering  a  mixture  of  dirge  and  song.  The  narrow  cobbled  streets  were  free  of  automobiles,  and  in  the  square  thin  well-bred  donkeys  were  tethered  to  the  one  tree,  ready  to  cart  the  scald-  ing  visitors  up  the  steep  hill  to  the  acropolis,  and  if  necessary  down  again.  Once  I  went  there  at  evening  time  and  it  was  as  if  its  pillars,  its  spaces,  and  its  buff  stone  fragments  looking  out  to  sea  defied  every  other  standard  of  beauty  and  composure.  I  did  not  do  much  sightseeing.  It  was  the  harbor  to  which  I  veered-the  harbor  with  a  life  that  varied  with  the  hours,  so  that  in  the  morning  breeze  its  ripples  were  like  minnows  on  the  surface  and,  later  on,  its  blue  was  so  hard,  so  glittering,  it  resembled  price-  less  jewelry.  I  used  to  love  to  watch  the  liners  gliding  in,  suave  and  white  in  comparison  with  the  ferry,  which  looked  clumsy,  like  a  two-decker  bus.  Then  there  were  the  pedal  boats  with  their  sedate  passengers,  and  all  ofa  sudden  there  would  be  the  single  sail  of  a  surf  boat,  like  the  torn  wing  of  a  giant  butterfly,  dipping  down  as  some  embarrassed  novice  lost  his  bearings.  Two  rival  groups  of  children  made  sand  castles.  Walking  by  them,  I  would  sud-  denly  think  of  my  lover's  children  and  wonder  pointlessly  what  games  they  were  playing  on  their  summer  vacation.  I  was  trying  to  forget  him,  or  at  least  to  suspend  the  mixed  mem-  ories  of  our  times  together.  The  two  years  I  had  known  him  had  brought  such  an  artful  combination  of  pain  and  pleasure  that  I  welcomed  a  rest,  and  while  forbidding  myself  to  think  of  him  I  settled  for  happy  ruminations  about  his  children.  I  imagined  how  I  would  woo  them  with  boiled  sweets  and  various  small  packets  contain-  ing  whistles  and  water  pistols  and  other  distractions.  I  wondered  what  they  looked  like  and  if  they  had  his  eyes  -eyes  that  can  beso  piercing  or  so  mild,  depending  on  his  mood,  eyes  that  almost  always  contradict  the  cur-  soriness  of  his  manner  and  lead  one  to  believe  that  things  are  sweeter  than  he  dares  to  admit.  I  shall  not  meet  them.  It  is  true  that  I  have  accepted  all  the  rules  and  all  the  embargoes.  Of  course  these  rules  have  not  been  expressly  stated,  but  one  knows  them,  for  they  are  in  the  air,  like  motes.  It  is  the  same  with  the  future.  He  and  I  do  not  dis-  cuss  it.  It  is  as  if  we  were  prisoners-  two  cloistered  people  for  whom  each  meeting  is  the  only  one  they  can  count  on.  Once  he  raised  the  question  of  our  past.  He  said  we  should  have  met  when  we  were  both  younger,  both  fresher.  I  do  not  agree.  I  believe  we  should  have  met  when  we  met,  but  I  did  not  voice  this,  because  I  have  ac-  quired  the  habit  of  saying  little-at  least,  little  of  any  moment.  Perhaps  because  there  is  so  much  to  say.  Or  perhaps  we  do  not  venture,  lest  our  frail  edifice  should  topple.  I  cannot  helpbut  think  of  the  sand  castles  the  children  make  withsuch  resolve  and  such  pugnaciousness,  and  yet  when  they  are  called  in  at  dusk  they  know  that  the  sea  in  all  its  vehemence  will  wash  their  efforts  away.  And  yet  the  next  day  they  commence  again  with  exactly  the  same  hope  and  the  same  gusto.  HILE  I  was  on  the  island,  I  believed  that  I  had  become  in-  different  to  him,  but  now  as  I  head  for  home  I  am  not  nearly  so  confident.  As  we  fly  across  Europe,  I  can  feel  the  chill  in  the  air,  and  from  time  to  time  I  put  my  hand  up  to  lower  the  draft  through  the  ventilator.  I  say  to  myself,  &quot;This  is  the  air  of  Yugoslavia,&quot;  or  &quot;This  is  the  air  of  Italy,&quot;  or  &quot;Soon  it  will  be  the  air  of  Belgium,&quot;  and  I  think  what  a  marvel  to  treadthe  air  of  several  countries,  to  have  one's  body  borne  forward  while  one's  mind  harks  back  to  another  place.  I  did  not  want  to  leave  my  little  villa.  4974616c79  such  a  pang,  and  I  thought,  Why  abandon  all  this  beauty  and  why  jeopardize  this  hard-won  harmony?  The  villa,  though  secluded,  had  afine  view  of  the  bay,a  terrace  with  splashes  of  bright  bou-  gainvillea  in  clay  urns,  and  at  night  the  smell  of  orange  blossom  was  so  strong  and  so  heady  that  it  was  like  " b"another  presence,  pleasing  and  drugging  the  senses.  Then,  in  the  morning,  the  flutes  of  morning  glory,  so  blue  and  so  ethereal,  were  like  heralding  angels.  Then,  too,  life  in  the  harbor  re-  commenced.  The  visi-  tors  would  file  down  the  dusty  tracks  and  appoint  themselves  under  the  straw  um-  brellas,  and  soon  there  would  be  bodies,  or,  rather,  heads,  bobbing  in  the  water  alongside  the  pink  buoys,  as  the  sun  became  hotter  and  hotter  and  the  sand  began  to  glisten,  then  sizzle.     Down  there,  though  I  was  among  people,  I  had  a  sense  of  space,  of  aloofness.  The  sun  shone  with  such  a  mer-  ciless  dedication  that  even  one  chink  in  the  straw  umbrella  could  lead  toa  bad  burn.  It  was  a  question  of  lathering  oneself  with  cream,  taking  a  dip,  and  then  hurrying  back  to  the  shelter  that  seemed  like  a  little  ark  redolent  of  straw.  Across  the  harbor  there  were  two  mountains  facing  each  other,  and  each  in  turn  had  the  benefit  of  the  sun.  When  one  was  bathed  in  gold,  the  other  was  gray  and  pitiful,  like  a  widow  gathering  her  weeds  about  her  for  the  night.  This  contrast  brought  to  mind  his  wife's  situation  and  my  own:  one  in  a  state  of  happiness  at  the  other's  expense,  yet  the  happy  one  always  knowing  the  precariousness  of  her  situation,  just  as  the  mountains  had  to  settle  for  alternations  of  light  and  dark.  Still,  I  was  able  to  banish  those  thoughts,  to  rout  out  those  dag-  gers  and  apply  my  eyes  and  thence  my  mind  to  nature.  In  the  glaze  of  sun-  shine  one  couldwrest  one's  mind  from  thought,  and  it  was  just  like  pulling  a  blind  down  and  shading  a  room.  It  was  a  sparse  island,  with  no  crops  and  with  stunted  trees  that  teetered  on  the  barren  slopes.  There  were  no  dogs,  and  the  cats  were  thin  and  ratlike.  When  evening  came,  I  would  sit  on  my  terrace  admiring  the  stars,  so  clear  and  so  particular,  like  flowers  on  an  immense  soft  navy-blue  down.  Music     from  the  two  rival  discotheques  and  the  ceaseless  mechanical  creak  of  the  cicadas  were  the  only  jarring  sounds.  The  lights  from  the  other  houses  and  the  bracelet  of  lights  from  the  three  restaurants  reminded  me  of  the  life  of  the  town-a  life  that  I  could  partake  of  had  I  the  inclination.  But  I  did  not  stir.  I  used  to  sit  there  and  think  that  I  was  free  of  him,  and  tell  myself  that  I  had  arrived  at  that  sane  and  happy  state  of  detachment.  Indeed,  had  he  sent  a  telegram  to  say  that  he  was  arriving,  I  would  have  sent  one  back  to  say  that  it  was  impossible.  I  did  not  want  him  there-not  then.  But  now,  as  I  near  home  and  I  see  precisely  the  soft  spill  of  his  brown  hair  or  one  hand  in  his  trousers  pocket  as  he  enters  my  house  abruptly,  or  a  look  that  for  all  its  prurience  is  also  priestly,  I  know  that  I  am  being  dragged  back  to  a  former  state,  and  it  is  as  if  the  reins  have  slipped  from  my  grasp.  These  forgotten  gestures  start  up  a  rush  of  other  moments  that  I  can  scarcely  call  memories,  since  they  are  more  palpable  and  more  real  than  the  passenger  next  to  me.  I  see  the  moment  when  my  lover  looked  at  my  new  dress  on  its  hanger,  looked  at  it  with  such  long-  ing,  then  reached  out  almost  to  touch  it,  as  if  imagining  or  dreading  the  delight  that  it  would  give  others  to  see  me  in  it.  For  some  reason  I  am  re-  minded  of  dull  suburban  gardens  and  how  from  packets  of  spring  seeds  so  randomly  scattered  the  hollyhocks  come  up  tall  and  defiant,  parading  their  strength  and  causing  one  to  think  that  nature  is  indeed  sovereign.  In  my  garden  last  spring  it  was  a  tulip,  a  red  tulip  with  a  black  center,  and  when  the  petals  opened  and  I  saw  its  fiendish  black  face  it  was  like  seeing  a  caricature  of  apainted  devil.  &quot;Oh,  you  little  strange  devil,&quot;  I  used  to  say  to  it,  and  wonder  how  it  came  to  be  there-  if  the  birds  had  planted  it  or  if  its  seed  was  in  the  bag  belonging  to  the  Breton  hawker  who  sells  onions.  He  knocks  on  my  door  three  or  four  times  a  year,  and,  holding  the  bunches  of  onions  aloft,  he  is  like  a  bishop  waving  a  censer.  In  the  morning  light  the  skins  are  a  beautiful  pink,  like  pearls  that  have  been  lightly  tinted,  whereas  in  contrast  the  garlic  he  carries  is  the  color  of  raw  dough.  He  always  reeks  of-cognac,  and  out  of  embarrassment  or  pity  I  give  him  another,  and  then  fret  over  his  progress  on  his  push  bicy-  " b"cle.  One  time  he  asked  me  if  he  could  leave  an  empty  sack  in  the  garden,  and  it  is  possible  that  as  he  shook  it  out  the  seed  of  thered  tulip  lodged  there.  EST  night  I  was  free.  Last  night  I  was  certainthat  I  had  conquered  rashness,  and  today  I  am  proven  wrong.  Last  night  something  hap-  pened  to  strengthen  my  conviction,  to  make  me  thankful  for  my  indepen-  dence.  I  wanted  to  buy  some  figs  to  bring  home,  so  I  wenton  an  excursion  to  the  town.  You  can't  imagine  how  I  avoided  the  town  for  the  whole  week.  It  was  like  a  furnace  down  there,  with  people  bumping  into  each  other  and  more  people  spilling  from  coaches  and  clamoring  for  cold  drinks  and  souve-  nirs  and  shade.  I  found  a  shop  away  from  the  main  square,  where  there  were  all  kinds  of  fruit,  including  the  figs  that  I  had  hoped  for.  There  were  two  kinds  of  figs,  and,  guessing  my  dilemma,  the  proprietor,  who  was  pale  and  extremely  gentle,  told  me  to  help  myself.  He  touched  my  wrist  as  he  gave  me  a  paper  bag,  and  the  touch  seemed  tosay,  &quot;Be  generous.  Take  both  kinds.&quot;  After  I  had  paid  him,  I  dallied  for  a  moment,  though  I  do  not  know  why.  Perhaps  I  was  a  little  lonely  at  not  having  spoken  to  anyone  for  a  week,  or  perhaps  I  was  rehears-  ing  my  re\xc3\xa9emergence  into  the  world.  All  of  a  sudden,  he  did  a  charming thing.  He  took  a  little  liqueur  bottle  from  a  glass  case  and  opened  it  with  one  wrench.  It  was  a  red  liqueur,  like  a  cordial,  and  we  drank  it  in  turn.  As  other  customers  came  in,  he  weighed  tomatoes  or  peaches  or  whatever,  and  spoke  to  them  in  English  or  German  or  Italian,  then  resumed  his  conversa-  tion  with  me.  He  spoke  of  the  contrast  between  life  on  that  island  in  the  sum-  mer  and  in  the  winter.  All  or  nothing,  he  said.  In  the  summer  he  worked  eighteen  or  twenty  hours  a  day,  and  in  the  winter  he  did  indoor  tasks,  such  as  painting  or  carpentry,  and  played  cards  with  the  men  in  the  caf\xc3\xa9.  An  old  woman  came  into  the  shop,  laughing  and  licking  her  lips.  She  was  not  the  customary  old  woman  in  black,  with  a  bony  face  and  legs  like  spindles;  rather,  she  was  fat  and  lascivious.  She  turned  her  back  to  me  and  pointed  to  her  open  zipper,  then  gestured  to  me  to  do  it  up.  Itried,  but  it  was  broken.  She  kept  gesturing  and  laughing,  and  I  think  in  reality  she  asked  so  that  he  and  I  could  see  her  flesh.  Her  flesh  was  soft  and  brown,  like  a  mousse.  Some  children  came  in  and  stepped  behind  the  counter  to  help  themselves  to  cold  drinks  from  the  refrigerator,  and  I  assumed  that  they  were  his  children  or  his  nieces  and  nephews.  He  must  have  always  avoided  the  sun  to  have  a  face  so  pale,  and  he  had  very  beautiful  smooth  eyelids,  which  he  kept  lowered   most  of  the  time.  He  did  not  ask  me  to  stay,  but  I  felt  that  he  did  not  want  me  to  go  just  yet.  I  had  already  told  him  that  I  was  leaving  the  following  morning  and  that  because  of  a  bungle  in  my  air  ticket  I  had  to  go  to  another  island,  and  he  had  smiled  and  said  that  with  my  coloring  I  would  like  the  other  island,as  it  was  green  and  leafy.  He  liked  it,  he  said.  It  was  as  if  we  had  a  bond,  disposed  as  we  were  to  a  bit  of  shade,  to  tillage,  and  to  fields.  He  pulled  an  airmail  envelope  from  a  new  packet  and  started  to  draw  on  it  in  order  to  show  me  where  the  other  island  was.  I  had  stepped  behind  the  counter  and  was  standingnext  to  him,  studying  this  funny  little  drawing,  when  a  woman  glided  in  and  at  once  asked  me  sharply  how  the  owner  of  my  rented  villa  was.  She  was  a  small  woman  wearing  canvas  shoes,  and  ev-  erything  about  her  was  pinched  and  castigating.  &quot;Your  wife,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;My  wife,&quot;  he  said.  In  an  instant  I  saw  their  story;  it  was  as  if  a  seer  had  unfolded  a  scroll  and  told  me  how  the  man  had  come  from  the  city,  how  he  had  married  this  thin  woman,  how  the  shop  was  in  her  name,  and  how  he  worked  eighteen  hours  a  day,  had  sired  these  lovely  children,  and  was  always  watched.  His  wife  gathered  up  a  sheaf  of  the  brown  paper  bags  that  were  strewn  all  over  the  counter  and  started  to  put  them  in  order,  and  by  doing  so  she  told  him  that  he  had  no  right  to  be  slacking,  that  he  had  no  right  to  be  talking  to  foreign  women.  T  hen  she  sniffed  the  empty  liqueur  bottle  and  with  a  grunt  tossed  it  toward  the  rubbish  bin.  Thinking  that  I  would  probably  never  see  them  again,  I  shook  hands  with  them  both  and  muttered  something  about  the  beauty  of  the  island,  as  if  to  temper  her  spleen.  I  went  alone  to  the  nearest  restaurant,  or-  dered  ahalf  bottle  of  white  wine,  and  drank  it  slowly,  and  ordered  grilled  prawns,  which  I  peeled  and  ate  at  my  leisure,  musing  about  this  and  that,  thinking  " b"how  lucky  I  was  to  be  my  own  mistress,  to  be  saved  the  terrible  inclination  of  wanting  to  possess  while  being  possessed,  of  being  separated  from  myself  while  being  host  to  an-  other.  I  so  relished  my  freedom  that  I  even  re-  marked  to  myself  how  nice  it  was  that  no  other  fingers  dabbled  in  the  glass  finger  bowl.  I  thought,  I  have  ar-  rived  at  a  new  state,  a  height  which  is  also  apla-  teau.  To  drive  the  matter  home,  as  I  walked  up  the  hill  to  my  secluded  house  I  overheard  an  English  cou-  ple  having  a  ghastly  drunk,  en  row  behind  an  open  door.  Four-letter  words  were  hurled  from  one  to  the  other  with  such  vehe-  mence  and  such  virulence  that  at  each  utterance  the  selfsame  word  carried  different  and  mounting  de-  grees  of  hatred;  I  was  afraid  they  would  come  to  blows,  and  perhaps  they  did.  I  went  and  sat  on  my  terrace,  and  found  to  my  surprise  that  a  liner  had  anchored  for  the  night.  Its  tiny  win-  dows  were  like  strips  of  gold,  and  all  of  a  sudden  I  was  reminded  of  the  interior  of  the  Byzantine  church,  and  for  some  reason,  alone  in  the  hushed  night,  I  genuflected  and  said  aprayer.  Never  had  the  bay  seemed  so  beautiful  or  so  safe,  with  the  pair  of  sable  mountains  enfolding  it.  Now  at  last  they  were  identical,  consumed  yet  distinctive,  in  the  dark.  I  delayed  going  to  bed,  even  though  I  knew  I  must  be  up  at  five.  WHEN  I  wakened  this  morning,  the  cocks  had  not  yet  begun  to  crow.  The  driver  came  to  collect  my  luggage,  and  we  went  on  tiptoe  through  the  town,  past  all  those  tiny  fortresses,  with  owners  bound  in  sleep  and  countless  dreams.  Driving  along,  we  witnessed  the  dawn,  and  at  first  sky  and  sea  were  merged,  a  pearled  vista  so  pale  and  so  fragile  that  one  knew  that  it  could-indeed,  that  it  would-be  vanquished.  Its  beauty  brought  to  mind  every  intrepid,  virginal  thing.  Even  as  one  looked  it  was  vanishing,  or  at  least  altering,  becoming  a  vision  or  a  passing  dream.  The  little  churches  perched  on  the  hilltops  were  like  tiny  beehives,  and  the  earth  gave  off  a  breath  of  moisture  and  repose.  But  it  was  to  the  sky  one  looked,  and  looking  at  it  the  realization  of  my  love  came  back  to  me  in  one  unheralded  burst  of  sadness.  Beauty  and  sadness  must  be  what  love  is  founded  on,  I  thought.  Then  the  sky  became  rosier,  the  light  seeming  to  flaunt  itself,  no  longer  tentative,  as  a  river  of  red  shot  across  the  heavens,  making  a  gash.  The  dawn  itself  was  bleached  and  milky,  with  scarcely  any  light  at  all,  and  the  sun  rose,  shy  and  timid,  bring-  ing  that  discharge  of  emotion  insepa-  rable  from  any  birth.  At  the  airport,  the  driver  and  I  had  coffee,  and  then  he  conveyed  me  to  a  small  twin-en-  gined  airplane  whereby  I  was  whisked  to  that  other  island,  which  by  compar-  ison  was  tropical.  There  were  white  goats  tethered  in  the  fields  next  to  the  landing  strip,  and  the  sight  of  these  and  the  little  trees  and  shrubs  re-  minded  me  of  my  native  land.  I  had  a  four-hour  wait,  and  so  I  sat  outside  on  a  step,  and  presently  some  young  soldiers  came  to  talk  to  me  and  tried  to  inveigle  me  to  dance  by  putting  on  their  transistor  radio  and  performing  some  idiotic  capers.  They  plied  me  with  offers  of  coffee  and  cigarettes.  They  were  dark,  their  dark  eyes  small  and  busy,  and  from  the  sun's  constant  glare  they  had  wrinkled  like  raisins.  Even  then  I  did  not  believe  that  I  was  going  home.  I  felt  I  would  be  detained  there,  and  I  did  not  in  the  least  object.  IT  is  evening  when  our  plane  lands.  It  is  not  dark,  but  it  seems  so  in  comparison  with  that  far-off  scorching  island.  It  is  as  if  all  the  sun  has  been  snatched  from  here,  and  involuntarily  I  think  of  autumn  and  the  hexagonal  street  lights  in  my  square  which  will  go  on  a  fraction  earlier  each  evening.  My  fellow-passengers  and  I  wait  for  our  luggage,  stare  at  the  monitor  to  see  which  bay  our  bags  will  arrive  at,  and  sometimes  looking  at  each  other  involuntarily  look  away,  as  if  we  have  done  wrong.  We  are  slipping  back  into  our  old  lives.  He  is  not  here,  nor  did  I  expect  him  to  be,  but  it  has  started  up,  not  quite  as  pain  or  fret  but  as  a  sense  of  resumption.  Already  Ifeel  the  imminence  of  his  next  visit,  and  I  think  how  it  will  appear  as  if  he  had  vacated  the  place  only  minutes  before.  The  future  looms,  mirroring  the  selfsame  patterns  of  the  past-  his  occasional  visits,  the  painful  vigils  in  between,  the  restraints  we  have  imposed  upon  ourselves-and  I  wonder  how  much  longer  I  shall  be  able  to  endure  it.  "