 b"IN  the  room  where  we  slept,  the  walls  were  pale  yellow  and  the  trim  was  bare  wood.  Across  from  my  friend  Richard's  bed  there  was  an  empty  fireplace  with  small  white  busts  on  the  mantel,  of  Tchaikovsky  and  Beethoven,  and  a  ribbon,  red-white-  and-blue,  with  a  bronze  medallion  of  a  man  running,  which  Richard  had  won  in  the  hundred-yard  dash  that  fall.  On  his  bureau  were  postcards,  letters,  a  stack  of  old  coins,  and  taped  to  the  wall  above  there  was  an  article  entitled  &quot;The  Night  I  Was  James  Bond,&quot;  with  a  picture  of  a  man  in  dark  glasses  leaning  against  a  wall  and  holding  a  cigarette.  His  clothes  sat  neatly  piled  on  a  chair  at  the  foot  ofhis  bed,  clean  and  white  and  folded.  Above  the  door  was  one  of  those  old-fashioned  fire  ex-  tinguishers,  shaped  like  a  skull  and  filled  with  a  red  liquid  that  was  sup-  posed  to  drip  out  in  case  of  fire.  &quot;Why  do  you  suppose  they're  red?&quot;  I  asked  Richard  one  night  as  we  lay  in  bed,  staring  up  through  the  dim  light.  He  did  not  answer.  &quot;Richard,&quot;  I  whispered.  Light  from  the  street  filtered  through  the  curtain,  and  I  could  see  the  soft  curve  ofhis  back,  and  the  rise  and  fall  of  the  covers,  and  hear  the  steady  sigh  of  his  breath.  I  closed  my  eyes  and  synchronized  my  breath  with  his,  in  the  hope  that  by  osmosis  I  would  fall  asleep.  We  were  at  the  age  when  boys  were  supposed  to  stop  being  scared  of  the  dark.  We  were  also  at  the  age  when  boys  stopped  sleeping  in  the  same  bed.  Why?  I  did  not  understand.  I  rebelled  against  this.  What  was  different?  And  what  was  different  in  the  way  his  back  moved,  breathing  in  the  night?  Change  came,  unspoken,  with  the  silent,  unsettling  sensation  of  some-  thing  I  did  not  yet  understand,  or  feel.  I  was  happy  with  the  way  things  were.  One  night  at  a  birthday  party  for  a  friend,  I  found  myself  sitting  on  the  couch  with  my  arm  around  a  girl  I  had  known  since  first  grade.  She  was,  in  my  fourteen-year-old  eyes,  lovely,  but  I  clung  to  her-my  face  resting  on  the  nape  of  her  neck,  listening  to  her  breath,  feeling  her  hair  on  my  cheek,  her  warmth-out  of  no  sexual  desire:  I  did  not  want  to  kiss  her.  I  walked  home  that  night  remembering  forgot,  ten,  insignificant  moments  from  my  childhood,  and  the  next  day  played  invented  games  with  a  long  stick  and  an  old  plastic  ball,  dimly  convinced  that  I  had  lost  something  I  had  always  had.    Now,  in  the  morning,  I  woke  early  in  a  room  filled  with  a  soft  gray  light.  The  covers  that  lay  over  Richard's  back  gently  rose  and  fell.  We  had  spent  the  night  together  many  times,  but  it  was  always  I  who  twitched  at  the  first  hint  of  light,  woke,  and  waited  in  the  still  vacuum  of  morning  for  him.  One  summer  night,  my  brother  and  I  and  Richard  agreed  to  wake  at  dawn  the  next  morning  and  ride  our  bikes  through  the  empty,  dim-  lit  streets  downtown  and  eat  hot  doughnuts.  In  the  morning,  my  brother  and  I  stood  under  his  window  for  half  an  hour,  throwing  pebbles  and  sticks,  but  he  would  not  wake  up-he  had  forgotten.  Downstairs,  I  could  hear  his  mother  knocking  around  in  the  kitchen  and,  from  a  far  corner  of  the  house,  a  dis-  tant  torrent  of  scales  from  hisfather's  violin.  I  got  dressed  quietly  and  walked  across  the  room  to  the  window.  Clouds  hung  in  low,  gray  shapesover  the  field,  and  a  soft  wind  blew  down  across  the  meadow  to  the  ocean  and  the  beach.  Though  it  was  December,  the  weather  had  been  warm,  and  the  ground  was  bare  and  soft  and  sev-  eral  trees  had  budded  prematurely.  The  branches  were  bare,  and  swayed  gently  in  the  wind.  What  did  they  look  like  with  leaves  on  them?  I  could  not  imagine.  In  time,  Richard  woke,  we  ate,  and  stood  on  the  field  near  his  house,  watching  a  small  balsa-wood  planehe  had  got  for  Christmas  rise  in  the  wind  above  the  barn,  curve,  pause,  tip  its  wings,  and  swoop  down  again  toward  the  roof,  rising  in  a  sudden  gust  before  catching  its  wings  on  a  branch  and  falling  harmlessly  to  earth.  Though  we  had  not  noticed,  Richard's  father  stood  on  the  lawn  near  the  garden,  and  laughed  now,  a  gentle,  rolling  laugh,  rising  in  him  and  making  us  laugh  withhim,  and  then  him  with  us;     his  laughter  faded  slowly  on  his  face  to  a  smile.  &quot;That  was  wonderful,&quot;  he  said,  his  face  flushed  with  cold  and  his  own  amusement.  His  hands  were  in  his  pockets,  and  as  he  stood  he  seemed,  suddenly,  like  part  of  the  landscape-a  tree,  the  garden-as  if  he  had  always  been  there.  &quot;When  I  was  your  age,  we  used  to  launch  planes  from  up  there  on  the  roof,&quot;  he  said,  pointing  back  toward  the  house,  &quot;but  they  always  got  caught  in  that  big  pine  tree  and  we  had  to  knock  them  down  with  sticks.  It  took  forever.&quot;  He  smiled  again,  and  walked  slowly  back  across  the  lawn  toward  the  house.  That  afternoon,  Richard  and  I  walk  with  the  plane  down  across  the  field  toward  the  beach.  A  steady  breath  of  wind  is  coming  off  the  ocean  and  we  have  decided  to  launch  the  plane  from  the  rocks  overlooking  the  beach.  It  is  low  tide,  and  from  the  top  of  the  rocks  we  can  see  the  vast  stretch  of  white  sand  below,  and  people  walk-  ing  in  the  warm  winter  air.  The  water  is  smooth,  except  for  the  succession  of  waves  thatcurl  onto  the  beach,  and  an  occasional  ripple  spreading  itself  acrossthe  water.  The  air  promises  spring.  Dogs  run  in  circles,  a  horse  canters  in  a  broken  wave,  people  walk,  sounds  drift.  We  stand  there  briefly,  feeling  the  wind  on  our  faces,  wonder-  ing  which  way  to  launch  the  plane.  &quot;Fine  day  for  a  flight,  eh,  Wat-  son?&quot;  Richard  says  to  me  in  an  af-  fected  British  accent.  &quot;Quite,  Holmes,  quite.&quot;  &quot;And  which  way  shall  we  launch  her,  sire,  which  way  shall  we  launch  her?&quot;  &quot;I  think  straight,  lad,  and  the  wind'll  bring  her  round,  down  onto  the  flatlands.&quot;  &quot;And  how  many  turns,  Watson,  how  many  turns?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  don't  know,  Holmes.  Hun-  dred  praps.  Praps  a  hundred  and  fifty.&quot;  &quot;Praps.  Hundred  and  fifty  'tis.&quot;  He  turns  the  propellera  hundred  and  fifty  times,  and  we  look  out  over  the  beach  and  at  each  other.  &quot;Good  luck,  Watson.  Take  care.&quot;  &quot;And  good  luck  to  you,  too,  Holmes.  If  anything  happens,  'll  see  you  in  [REDACTED]  on  the  fifteenth.&quot;  &quot;The  fifteenth  it  is,  suh.  Good  luck,&quot;  Richard  says  to  me,  and  we  shake  hands  and  turn  to  the  sea.  With  a  practiced  hand,  he  releases  the  propeller  and  gives  the  plane  a  gentle  push  toward  the  ocean.  The  plane  goes  straight  out  from  his  ex-  tended  hand,  its  wings  tipping  back  and  forth  in  the  wind,  and  flies  " b'through  the  air,  stringing  together  a  succession  of  perfect  arcs,  over  the  rocks,  over  the  beach,  over  the  break-  ing  waves,  straight  out  to  sea.  We  stand  there  and  stare,  until,  at  last,  after  what  seems  asmall  eternity,  the      plane  arcs  toward  the  water,  rises  gently  in  the  wind,  and  settles  into  the  sea.  Richard  and  I  stand  there  in  a  brief,  dumbstruck  silence  before  turning  to  each  other.    &quot;My  God,  Holmes,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;Con-  gratulations.&quot;  We  shake  hands  andgo  scampering  down  the  rocks,  like  two  old  men  who  have  seen,  in  the  dis-  tance,  a  forgotten  love,  and  remem-  bered. '