 b"INVITED  to  speak  at  the  inaugural  ofthe  latest  in  the  series  of  bunkers  established  under  the  [REDACTED]  Fau-  bourg  Art  Depot,  this  one  to  be  used  for  storing  rare  examples  of  French  crenellation,  I  cannot  help  asking  my-  self,  &quot;W  hat  else  can  Charles  Filament,  leading  historian  and  philosopher  of  his  generation,  say  about  a  subject  to  which  he  has  so  often  and  brilliantly  contributed  in  the  past?&quot;  And  I  know  some  of  you  are  already  murmuring,  &quot;Crenellation!  What  is  the  point!  Look  at  the  way  the  world  is  going!  What  help  is  all  this  to  us&quot;&quot;  When  General  Achille  Siffet  sub-  jugated  [REDACTED]  not  so  long  ago,  he  found  the  inhabitants  of  [REDACTED]  living  in  wattled  huts  that  they  had  to  enter  on  their  hands  and  knees.  They  spent  their  waking  hours  play-  ing  with  the  rusted  scraps  of  old  as-  sembly  lines  abandoned  by  the  depart-  ing  Dramssks,  who  had  finally  given  up  hope  of  ever  civilizing  them.  Their  only  food  was  heff,  a  primitive  offshoot  of  the  potato,  which  they  fried  in  large  communal  caldrons  kept  bubbling  day  and  night.  As  General  Siffet's  Chief  Biog-  rapher,  I  was  among  the  last  to  disem-  bark,  and  I  saw  that  smoke  billowing  from  the  open-air  cooking  pots  had  completely  overpowered  the  First  Dia-  rists  Special  Regiment.  Attributing  the  cloud  to  some  advanced  and  mysteri-  ous  weapon,  I  feared  for  my  documen-  tation,  and  the  turbulent  arrival  ofthe  556e6974656420537461746573ns,  clad  in  unmatched  furs  and  shoes  cut  out  of  automobile  tires,  did  nothing  to  still  my  apprehension.  However,  their  tumultuous  pushiness  turned  out  to  be  the  curiosity  of  the  unsophisticated,  which  was  soon  sat-  isfied  by  the  distribution  of  gilt  picture  frames,  postcard  views  of  Vosges  saw-  mills  in  November,  and  little  pieces  of  bread.  Having  mistaken  General  Sifflet  for  the  Moon  Goddess  of  Seine-et-  Marne,  whose  arrival  is  prophesied  in  the  Early  Financial  Chronicle,  the  soothsayers  offered  him  a  ritual  jug,  the  contents  of  which  he  drank  down  without  a  thought  for  his  own  safety.  Then,  looking  out  over  the  restless  crowd,  none  in  it  more  than  two  feet  tall,  the  General  spoke  the  words  that  have  so  often  been  misquoted:  &quot;We  shall  have  to  proceed  very,  very  slow-  IYa\xe2\x80\x9d  His  first  act  was  to  call  in  all  the  local  idols  and  put  them  through  a  shredder.  Then  came  the  gradual  in-  troduction  of  Old  World  secrets:  the  swaddling  of  infants,  the  application  of  leeches,  and  the  delicate,  painstak-  ing  doctoring  of  wine.  Have  I  remem-  bered  to  say  I  had  the  General's  entire  confidence?  One  day  he  turned  to  me  and  said,  &quot;A  little  crenellation  won't  hurt  them  now.  It  will  keep  you  on  your  toes,  Filament,  and  off  mine.&quot;  (I  think  most  of  you  are  familiar  with  my  anthology  of  his  quips,  &quot;General  Mer-  riment,&quot;  which  contains  over  nine  hundred  jokes,  amply  illustrated  by  photos  of  myself  at  home,  at  school,  and  in  retirement.)  I1  set  to  work  with  a  will,  discover-  ing  the  population  to  be  more  childlike  and  trusting  than  its  fierce  demeanor  suggested.  Finding  myself  worshipped  as  an  Auxiliary  Sunspot,  a  minor  deity  mentioned  in  the  old  Chronicle,  gave  me  pause,  but  I  bore  in  mind  the  Gen-  eral's  counsel:  &quot;Each  step  must  beex-  plained.  When  you  run  out  of  explanations,  throw  them  a  biscuit.&quot;  I  am  afraid  I  soon  ran  out  of  both.  Some  women,  not  knowing  what  crenella-  tion  was  for,  wore  it  intheir  hair.  Others  believed  it  had  everything  to  do  with  fertility-a  blind  credence  that  accounts  for  a  swift  fall  of  the  birth  rate.  It  was  not  until  William  Thrisbee,  last  in  the  line  ofnative  kings,  published  a  paper  proving  that  crenellation  was  an  imhibiting  factor  that  procreation  resumed  its  normal  cadence.  As  we  sailed  away,  leaving  behind  a  subdued  and  cultivated  nation,  I  ven-  tured  a  remark  to  General  Siffliet:  How  long  would  it  be  before  they  reverted  to  savagery?  I  do  not  recall  his  reply.  Recent  excavations  in  O  Street  N.W.  have  brought  to  light  examples  of  French  crenellation  introduced  by  me  at  that  time,  as  well  as  decadent  specimens  that  can  safely  be  dated  a  little  later.Its  refining  influence,  I  venture  to  say,  remains  alive  in  sub-  conscious  racial  memory. "