 b"ALL  [REDACTED]  is  awash  with  election  A  rumors  concerning  Sylvain  Mousse.  He  has  divested  him-  self  of  his  worldly  goods,  has  dispersed  his  priceless  collection  of  clawfoot  and  inlay,  of  marble  and  bullion,  of  statues  of  Diana  the  Huntress,  of  swan  bath-  room  taps  and  sphinx  floor  lamps.  Mousse  intends  to  stand  before  the  voters  naked  except  for  John  Lobb  shoes,  Sulka  socks,  Hilditch  &amp;  Key  underwear,  Rhodes  &amp;  Brousse  shirt,  Charvet  tie,  Boucheron  cufflinks,  suit  tailored  by  Creed,  Chaumet  watch,  Mauboussin  signet  ring,  Lanvin  handkerchief,  Hermes  wallet,  Motsch  Fils  umbrella,  Schilz  gloves,  Wil-  loughby  hat.  Mousse  hopes  to  win  the  hearts  of  the  workers.  Can  hedo  it?  In  arare  statement,  the  office  man-  ager  of  a  respected  underground  news-  paper  declares,  &quot;Mousse  is  said  to  be  living  in  dread  of  revelations  allegedly  in  the  files  of  this  publication.  The  responsible  revolutionary  press  has  never  stooped  to  personal  criticism.  A  bourgeois  biography,  such  as  Mousse's,  inevitably  containschapters  onarmed  assault,  bigamy,  arson,  re-  fusal  of  support  to  aged  servants  and  illegitimate  children,  and  unredeem-  able  bankruptcy.  Can  you  blame  a  Mousse  for  being  a  Mousse?&quot;  In  the  world  ofthe  future  will  there  be  room  for  Mousse?  Not  if  he  is  the  same  Sylvain  Mousse  last  seen  slinking  to  a  bus  stop  after  having  been  caught  defacing  valuable  reproductions  of  the  dinner  menu  at  Maxim's.  A  photo  of  Mousse,  snapped  in  a  compromising  situation  with  the  wife  of  a  distinguished  Belgian  billiards  player,  has  been  making  the  rounds  of  the  media.  In  this  coarse  K.G.B.  con-  coction  Mousse  is  clearly  recognizable,  though  his  companion  seems  to  be  dis-  guised  as  a  blue  hydrangea.  The  back-  ground,  either  the  Royal  Enclosure  at  Ascot  or  aradar  traffic-control  booth  just  outside  Biarritz,  leaves  no  room  for  doubt.  A  car  with  [REDACTED]  license  plates  recalls  the  oil  barons  of  Vene-  zuela.  The  picture  is  an  obvious  and  mischievous  fake,  and  it  was  with  great  reluctance  that  four  reputable  newspapers  decided  to  run  it.  Is  Mousse  still  divisive?  Once,  his  very  name  was  enough  to  separate  em-  ployers  from  secretaries,  send  embit-  tered  young  idealists  into  investment  careers,  create  punch-ups  at  Foreign  Legion  veterans'  get-togethers.  A  poll  taken  of  Grenoble  bus  drivers  showed  they  all  believed  Mousse  to  be  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Netherlands.  Actually,  Mousse  belongs  to  a  prominent  family  of  patriots  and  civil  servants  who  continue  to  be  useful  to  the  nation  as  swimming  instructors,  veterinary  surgeons,  hatband  cutters.  Nine  of  his  close  relatives  recently  signed  a  manifesto  disowning  him.  One  sent  him  an  insulting  poem.  In  line  with  his  new  policy  of  self-denial,  Mousse  sent  it  back.  Not  long  ago,  the  curator  of  a  world-renowned  museum  revealed  that  someone  had  carved  &quot;Vote  for  Mousse&quot;  in  the  frame  of  Delacroix's  &quot;Liberty  Guiding  the  People.&quot;  He  said  he  had  thought  nothing  of  it  at  the  time.  Since  then,  he  had  been  put-  ting  two  and  two  together.  Is  Mousse  a  red  herring  thrown  into  the  cultural  soup?  No  one  has  a  ready  answer.  An  editorial  in  a  responsible  ecolog-  ical  weekly,  headed  &quot;WHATS  IN  CLEAN  WATER  FOR  MOUSSE?,&quot;  has  set  some  readers  thinking.  (Many  of  this  jour-  nal's  subscribers  say  they  take  it  only  for  the  crossword  puzzle.)  Mousse  is  sued  for  fraud  by  a  noted  art  dealer,  who  bought  a  portrait  from  the  Mousse  collection  in  which  he  thought  he  could  discern  the  haughty  nose  and  frizzled  wig  of  Louis  XIV.  Under  merciless  cross-examination,  the  dealer  had  to  admit  that  Mousse  never  said  the  portrait  was  not  a  like-  ness  of  the  Soviet  Ambassador.  The  philosopher  Charles  Filament,  in  his  maiden  speech  before  the  French  Academy,  traces  thedecline  of  French  influence  to  &quot;Mousses  and  their  kind.&quot;  On  a  holiday  the  previous  summer  M.  Filament  did  not  meet  ten  persons  in  Munich  able  to  give  him  a  direction  in  French.  We  have  come  a  long  way  31  from  Voltaire  and  Frederick  the  Great,  he  admitted.  He  was  not  asking  for  more  Voltaire,  God  forbid,  but  for  less  Mousse.  Mousse  has  sold  his  mansion  on  Avenue  Foch,  together  with  some  of  its  precious  contents,  to  a  cultivated  Lebanese  banker.  Since  then  the  deed  of  ownership  has  vanished  from  the  banker's  safe-deposit  vault.  He  has  as-  sembled  a  documented  report  on  the  matter,  supplemented  by  taped  inter-  views,  affidavits,  copies  of  bills  of  lad-  ing,  and  film  footage  showing  stolen  goods,  under  armed  escort,  being  rushed  past  customs  officials,  He  has  shown  the  report  to  the  appropriate  authorities.  On  Christmas  Eve  abundant  snow  is  reported  on  the  lower  slopes  of  the  Alps.  Reservations  at  ski  resorts  have  achieved  an  all-time  record.  A  last-  minute  train  and  airline  strike  prevents  thousands  of  holiday-makers  from  leaving  the  capital.  It  begins  to  look  as  though  Mousse  may  lose  the  election.  e  I  \\HIS  morning,  a  small  boxed  personal  notice  in  a  morning  newspaper  catches  the  eye:  To  Wuonm  It  May  ConcERN  Sylvain  Mousse  would  likehis  friends  to  know  that  he  has  taken  his  final  vows  with  a  contemplative  order  in  which  the  ruleof  absolute  silence  is  observed.  Mousse  has  assumed  the  name,  in  religion,  of  &quot;Brother  C\xc3\xa9phalopode,&quot;  for  St.  C\xc3\xa9phalopode  of  Si-  nope,  portrayed  in  Early  Christian  iconog-  raphy  with  his  finger  to  his  lips.  At  his  own  request,  he  spent  his  novitiate  in  a  monas-  tery  on  the  west  coast  of  [REDACTED],  where  even  if  a  word  had  been  uttered  he  would  have  been  at  a  loss  to  understand  it.  He  will  remember  you  in  his  prayers.  Is  it  possible  that  all  this  time  Mousse  has  been  on  the  west  coast  of  [REDACTED],  eating  herring  and  salt  por-  ridge,  silently  laughing  at  us? "