 b"FINANCIALLY,  the  paper  is  quite  healthy.  The  paper's  timber-  lands,  mining  interests,  pulp  and  paper  operations,  book,  magazine,  cor-  rugated-box,  and  greeting-card  divi-  sions,  film,  radio,  television,  and  cable  companies,  and  data-processing  and  satellite-communications  groups  are  all  flourishing,  with  over-all  return  on  in-  vested  capital  increasing  at  about  nine  per  cent  a  year.  Compensation  of  the  three  highest-paid  officers  and  direc-  tors  last  year  was  $399,500,  $362,700,  and  $335,500,  respectively,  exclusive  of  profit-sharing  and  pension-plan  ac-  cruals.  But  top  management  is  discouraged  and  saddened,  and  middle  manage-  ment  is  drinking  too  much.  Morale  in  the  newsroom  is  fair,  because  of  the  recent  raises,  but  the  shining  brows  of  the  copy  boys,  traditional  emblems  of  energy  and  hope,  have  begun  to  display  odd,  unattractive  lines.  At  every  level,  even  down  into  the  depths  of  the  press-  room,  where  the  pressmen  defiantly  wear  their  square  dirty  folded-paper  caps,  people  want  management  to  stop  what  it  is  doing  before  it  is  too  late.  The  new  VDT  machines  have  hurt  the  paper,  no  doubt  about  it.  The  peo-  ple  in  the  newsroom  don't  like  the  ma-  chines.  (A  few  say  they  like  the  ma-  chines  but  these  are  the  same  people  who  like  the  washrooms.)  When  the  machines  go  down,  as  they  do,  not  in-  frequently,  the  people  in  the  newsroom  laugh  and  cheer.  The  executive  editor  has  installed  one-way  glass  in  his  office  door,  and  stands  behind  it  looking  out  over  the  newsroom,  fretting  and  groaning.  Recently  the  paper  ran  the  same  stock  tables  every  day  for  a  week.  No  one  noticed,  no  one  complained.  Middle  management  has  implored  top  management  to  alter  its  course.  Top  management  has  responded  with  postdated  guarantees,  on  a  sliding  scale.  The  Guild  is  off  in  a  corner,  whimpering.  The  pressmen  are  hold-  ing  an  unending  series  of  birthday  par-  ties  commemorating  heroes  of  labor.  Reporters  file  their  stories  as  usual,  but  if  they  are  certain  kinds  of  stories  they  do  not  run.  A  small  example:  the  paper  did  not  run  a  Holiday  Weekend  Death  Toll  story  after  Labor  Day  this  year,  the  first  time  since  1926  no  Holiday  Weekend  Death  Toll  story  appeared  in  the  paper  after  Labor  Day  (and  the  total  was,  although  not  a  record,  a  substantial  one).  Some  elements  of  the  staff  are  not  depressed.  The  paper's  very  creative  real-estate  editor  has  been  a  fountain  of  ideas,  and  his  sections,  full  of  color  pictures  of  desirable  living  arrange-  ments,  are  choked  with  advertising  and  make  the  Sunday  paper  fat,  fat,  fat,  fat.  More  food  writers  have  been  hired,  and  more  clothes  writers,  and  more  furniture  writers,  and  more  plant  writers.  The  bridge,  whist,  skat,  crib,  bage,  domino,  and  vingt-et-un  colum-  nists  are  very  popular.  The  Editors'  Caucus  has  once  again  applied  to  middle  management  for  re-  lief,  and  has  once  again  been  promised  it  (but  middle  management  has  Glen-  fiddich  on  its  breath,  even  at  break-  fast).  Top  management's  polls  say  that  sixty-five  per  cent  of  the  readers  &quot;want  movies,&quot;  and  feasibility  studies  are  be-  ing  conducted.  Top  management  ac-  knowledges,  over  long  lunches  at  good  restaurants,  that  the  readers  are  wrong  to  &quot;want  movies&quot;  but  insists  that  &quot;morality  cannot  be  legislated.&quot;  The  newsroom  has  been  insulated  (with  products  from  the  company's  Echotex  division)  so  that  the  people  in  the  newsroom  can  no  longer  hear  the  sounds  in  the  streets.  The  paper's  editorials  have  been  sub-  contracted  to  [REDACTED]  Instruments,  and  the  obituaries  to  Nabisco,  so  that  the  staff  will  have  &quot;more  time  to  think.&quot;  The  foreign  desk  is  turning  out  lan-  guage  lessons  (&quot;  Yo  temo  gue  Isabel  no  venga,&quot;  &quot;I  am  afraid  that  Isabel  will  not  come&quot;).  There  was  an  especially  lively  front  page  on  Tuesday.  The  No.  1  story  was  pepperoni-a  useful  and  exhaustive  guide.  It  ran  right  next  to  the  slimming-your-troublesome-  thighs  story,  with  pictures.  Top  management  has  vowed  to  stop  what  it  is  doing-not  now  but  soon,  soon.  A  chamber  orchestra  has  been  formed  among  the  people  in  the  news-  room,  and  we  play  Haydn  until  the  sun  comes  up. "