 b"EVEN  farther  S.,  the  Pan-Ameri-  E  can  Highway,  unpaved  at  this  point,  passes  a  mule  track  (km.  1,024,  not  signposted),  at  the  very  end  of  which  is  the  town  of  Polvo  (pop.  87,  Census  of  1935).  Mutton,  lanolin,  wool,  and  cactus  fibre  are  the  main  products.  Many  travellers  regard  Pol-  vo  as  the  true  Gateway  to  Patagonia.  It  was  perhaps  here,  in  1832,  that  General  Juan  Manuel  de  Rosas  began  his  mission  of  subduing  the  Indians.  The  conjecture  is  reasonable,  as  the  Indians  in  the  area  are  subdued  to  the  point  of  invisibility.  It  is  likely  that  the  young  Charles  Darwin,  who  met  Rosas  during  his  (Rosas's)  onslaught,  might  also  have  trod  Polvo's  narrow  gravelled  street  and,  on  the  precipi-  tous  rockslides  nearby,  collected  the  specimens  of  black  toads  he  painstak-  ingly  describes  in  his  &quot;Journal  of  Re-  searches&quot;  (often  wrongly  titled  &quot;The  Voyage  of  the  Beagle&quot;).  Unprepossessing  in  appearance,  lit-  tle  more  than  two  acres  of  habita-  tion,  and  hardly  discernible  above  the  tops  of  its  own  low  thornbushes,  Pol-  vo,  although  part  of  the  former  King-  dom  of  Araucania  and  Patagonia,  has  been  called  &quot;the  hamlet  without  a  prince.&quot;  And  yet  it  is  not  devoid  of  the  charm  that  characterizes  many  anoth-  er  sheep-raising  town.  The  annual  sheep-clip  (May  10-17)  draws  a  score  of  visitors.  Polvanos  refuse  to  be  drawn,  but  their  silence  implies  that  it  may  be  worth  the  tourist's  while  to  en-  dure  the  overcrowded  conditions  and  generally  stretched  amenities  to  which  the  town  is  subject  during  such  local  fiestas.  (Jan.  4,  Druids'  Day,  and  July  22,  Feast  of  Martyrs,  are  others.)  At  sheep-clip,  the  Market  Square  (Pleze)  is  said  to  take  on  something  of  the  atmosphere  of  Act  IV,  Scene  4,  of  &quot;The  Winter's  Tale,&quot;  with  a  Wool  Queen  in  her  ancient  cardigan  and  a  good-humored  Shearer's  Dance,  which  has  proved  fatal  to  many  an  unwary  onlooker!  Once  every  ten  yearsthere  is  an  eisteddfod-Welsh  poems  being  sung  and  shouted.  The  simultaneous  translation  in  Tehuelche  is  perhaps  a  hangover  from  the  days  of  colonization.  Visitors  to  Polvo  cannot  fail  to  no-  tice  the  scarcity  of  water  in  the  town,  and  the  sensible  wayfarer  will  carry  enough  to  last  him  his  stay.  A  visit  of  any  length  will  necessitate  the  boring  of  a  well,  and  the  budget-minded  trav-  eller  will  want  to  allow  for  this  addi-  tional  expense.  Years  of  privation  have  left  their  mark  on  the  settlers,  who  tend  to  give  the  impression  of  tru-  culence-an  impression  that  is  only  con-  firmed  by  long  acquaintance.  Un-  accustomed  to  strangers,  and  some-  what  outside  the  mainstream  of  the  tourist  boom  that  has  brought  moder-  nity  to  his  distant  neighbors,  the  Pol-  vano  is  inclined  to  be  brusque,  except  toward  visitors  who  are  thoroughly  fluent  in  colloquial  Welsh.  More  than  usual  care  should  be  exercised  in  en-     tering  a  farmhouse  unannounced,  and  no  one  ought  to  expect  a  clear  set  of  directions  to  the  downtown  area  and  hotel  (Residencial  Penrhyndeudraeth).  Well  stocked  with  some  of  the  bet-  ter  Fuegian  vintages,  the  restaurant,  sumptuous  by  Polvo's  standards,  is  nearly  always  shut.  There  is  limitless  scope  in  the  hills  for  the  spelunker.  Once  the  haunt  of  Patagonian  gi-  ants,  who  are  said  to  havebeen  nu-  merous  in  the  region  and  to  account  for  early  maps  bearing  the  reference  &quot;Regio  Gigantum,&quot;  Polvo  has  seen  these  natives  dwindle  in  number  as  well  as  in  size  over  the  years,  until  by  mid-century  there  was  but  one.  That  he  was  hunted  for  sport  is  partof  Pol-  vo's  rich  folklore.  What  remains  of  his  small  earthen  hut  may  still  be  seen,  though  notevery  traveller  will  wish  to  make  the  two-day  journey,  as  it  can  only  be  accomplished  on  foot.  (Stout  shoes  a  must.)  Those  who  do  (and  the  jaunt  is  a  welcome  relief  from  the  odor  of  sheep-dip  and  uncured  hides,  which  casts  a  blight  on  the  otherwise  attrac-  tive  town)  will  glimpse  herds  of  rov-  ing  guanacos  and,  smeared  on  rocks,  odd  fingerprint  markings  reputed  to  be  10,000  years  old.  The  trip  to  the  gravesites  of  the  early  settlers  takes  slightly  longer,  at  just  under  a  week,  and  is  to  be  recommended  for  the  hardy.  Those  who  manage  it  are  re-  warded  by  the  simple  grandeur  of  three  solitary  markers,  shaped  not  un-  like  hubcaps,  carved  from  local  stone  and  bearing  indistinct  inscriptions  in  the  Welsh  language.  Round  about  this  tiny  necropolis  an  impressive  desola-  tion  soothes  the  eye  of  the  footsore  traveller.  Municipal  buildings  in  Polvo  in-  clude  the  Central  Jail,  the  Founders'  Orphanage,  the  Carding  House,  and  the  Methodist  Chapel.  The  chapel  is,  in  the  words  ofthe  French  travel-  ler  Gaston,  &quot;typical  of  its  kind  ...  notwithstanding  its  window,  which  is  open  to  criticism.&quot;  A  Christian  Sci-  ence  Reading  Room  is  in  the  planning  stages,  and  this  will  be  housed  in  a  chamber  now  known  as  the  Zone  Rose  (open  most  weekdays),  where  in  former  times  gauchos  are  supposed  to  have  gathered  during  the  sheep-clip.  (Note  hook  and  scarred  doorjamb,  where,  according  to  legend,  spurs  were  hung.)  The  Mercado  (market)  is  close  by,  and  although  Polvo's  barter  system  is  almost  certain  to  divest  the  enthusias-  tic  traveller  of  his  wristwatch,  a  visit  is  " b"well  worth  the  risk.  Apart  from  the  root  vegetables  and  the  carcasses  of  sheep  arranged  sandbag-style  around  the  dour  venders,  there  are  tradition-  al  Indian  ornaments  on  sale,  some  thought  to  be  of  ancient  manufacture,  including  penwipers,  calendar  holders,  napkin  rings,  buckles,  tie  clasps,  bookmarks,  and  plinths  for  digital  clocks,  all  fashioned  from  dried  cac-  tus  fibre,  to  which  magical  properties  havebeen  ascribed.  Some  distance  from  the  market,  but  now  derelict,  are  the  shacks  of  quarrymen  who  worked  the  iron-ore  deposit.  There  are  few  orga-  nized  tours  of  this  part  of  town.  STEEPED  in  Patagonian  history,  Polvo  nonetheless  wears  its  an-  tiquity  lightly,  and  it  has  steadily  di-  minished  in  population.  The  youths  of  the  town  are  understandably  siphoned  off  by  the  oil  pipeline  and  the  bright  lights  of  Rio  Gallegos.  Consequently,  the  average  age  in  Polvo  is  73.  The  petrochemical  plant,  promised  for  the  next  decade,  ought  to  go  some  way  toward  altering  the  scope  of  tourism.  Bird  life  abounds,  and  the  sky  above  Polvo  is  frequently  black  with  the  soaring  [REDACTED]  Buzzard  (Cathertes  aura).  Polecats  and  skunks  (Zorrillos)  must  also  be  mentioned  here.  The  flora  is  tenacious  but  thin,  and  limited  to  scrub  thorn  and  the  cactus  from  which  the  local  artifacts  are  made.  Oblivious  of  the  stranger's  taunt  about  the  monotony  of  their  unremarkable  surroundings,  Polvanos  delight  in  their  landscape's  occasional  fits  of  natural  crankishness  and  will  walk  any  dis-  tance  to  hear  the  rumble  of  a  glacier  &quot;calving.&quot;  In  another  epoch,  dinosaurs  must  have  ranged  this  dusty  plateau  and  laid  eggs  where  sheep  now  graze,  though  all  have  vanished  without  a  trace.  The  Museo  de  Polvo  (Polvo  Museum,  open  Mondays)  contains  a  plaster  model  of  a  settler's  homestead,  a  sketch  map  of  the  Spanish  advance,  an  authentic  Welsh  dresser,  a  collection  of  skins  and  hides,  a  stuffed  albatross,  a  fusil-  ier's  epaulets,  and  a  canoe.  Murals  depict  Rosas's  massacres  (north  wall)  and  the  flood  damage  of  1899  (west  wall).  The  attendant  on  duty  wakes  from  time  to  time  to  remind  the  browser  not  to  lean  on  the  display  cases."