 b"YES,  said  the  old  soldier,  I  re-  member  atime.  It  was  during  the  Krian  War.  Bless  you  and  keep  you,  said  his  hearer,  silently.  It  was  during  the  Krian  War,  said  theold  soldier.  We  were  up  there  on  the  38th  parallel,  my  division,  round  about  the  Chorwon  [REDACTED].  This  was  in  '52.  Oh  God,  said  the  listener  to  him-  self.  Enchiladas  in  green  sauce.  Dos  Equis.  Maybe  aburrito  or  two.  We  had  this  battalion  of  Thais  at-  tached  to  us,  said  the  old  sergeant.  Nicest  people  you'd  ever  want  to  meet.  We  used  to  call  their  area  [REDACTED],  like  it  was  a  whole  country.  They  are  small  of  stature.  We  used  to  party  with  them  a  lot.  What  they  drink  is  Me-  kong,  it'll  curl  your  teeth.  In  Kria  we  weren't  too  particular.  Enchiladas  in  green  sauce  and  Gilda.  Gilda  in  her  sizzling  blouse.  This  time  I'm  talking  about,  we  were  partying  at  [REDACTED],  there  was  this  Thai  second  john  who  was  a  per-  sonal  friend  of  mine,  named  Sutchai.  Tall  fellow,  thin,  he  was  an  exception  to  the  rule.  We  were  right  tight,  even  went  on  R.  &amp;  R.  together,  you're  too  young  to  know  what  that  is,  it's  Rest  and  Recreation  where  you  zip  off  to  4a6170616e  and  sample  the  delights  of  that  great  city  for  a  week.  I  am  young,  thought  the  listener,  young,young,  praise  the  Lord  I  am  young.  This  time  I  am  talking  about,  said  theold  sarge,  we  wereon  the  side  of  a  hill,  they  held  this  hill  which  sort  of  anchored  the  MLR-that's  Main  Line  of  Resistance-at  that  point,  pretty  good-sized  hill  I  forget  what  the  designation  was,  and  it  was  a  feast  day,  some  Thai  feast,  a  big  holiday,  and  the  skies  were  sunny,  sunny.  They  had  set  out  thirty-seven  washtubs  full  of  curry  I  never  saw  anything  like  it.  Thirty-seven  washtubs  full  of  curry  and  a  different  curry  in  every  one.  They  even  had  eel  curry.  I  cannot  believe  I  am  sitting  here  listening  tothis  demento  carry  on  about  eel  curry.  It  was  a  golden  revel,  said  the  ser-  geant,  if  you  liked  curry  and  I  did  and  do.  Beef  curry,  chicken  curry,  the  deli-  cate  Thai  worm  curry,  all  your  vari-  ous  fish  curries  and  vegetable  curries.  The  Thai  cooks  were  number  one,  even  in  the  sergeant's  mess  which  I  was  the  treasurer  of  for  a  year  and  a  half  we  didn't  eat  like  that.  Well,  you're  too  young  to  know  what  a  quad-fifty  is  but  it's  four  fifty-calibre  machine  guns  mounted  on  a  half-track  and  they  had  quad-fifties  dug  in  on  various  parts  of  their  hill  as  well  as  tanks  which  was  just  about  all  you  could  do  with  a  tank  in  that  terrain,  andtoward  eve-  ning  they  were  firing  off  tracer  bursts  from  the  quad-fifties  to  make  fireworks  and  it  was  just  very  festive,  very  festive.  They  had  fighting  with  wooden  swords  at  which  the  Thais  excel,  it's  like  a  bal-  let  dance,  and  the  whole  battalion  was  putting  away  the  Mekong  and  beer  pretty  good  as  were  the  invited  guests  such  as  me  and  my  buddy  Nick  Pirelli  who  was  my  good  buddy  in  the  motor  pool,  anytime  I  wanted  a  vehicle  of  any  type  for  any  purpose  all  I  had  to  do  was  call  Nick  and  he'd  redline  that  vehicle  and  send  it  over  to  me  with  a  driver-  I  too  have  a  life,  thought  the  lis-  tener,  but  it  is  motes  of  dust  in  the  air.  They  had  this  pretty  interesting,  ac-  tually  highly  interesting,  ceremony,  said  the  sargie-san,  as  part  of  the  feast,  on  that  night  on  that  hill  in  Kria,  where  everybody  lined  up  and  their  colonel,  that  was  Colonel  Parti,  I  knew  him,  a  wise  and  handsome  man,  stripped  to  the  waist  and  the  men,  one  by  one,  passed  before  him  and  poured  water  on  his  head,  half  a  cupful  per  man.  The  Colonel  sat  there  and  they  poured  water  on  his  head,  it  had  some  kind  of  religious  significance-they're  Buddhists-the  whole  battalion,  that's  six  hundred  men  more  or  less,  passed  in  front  of  him  and  poured  water  on  his  head,  it  was  a  blessing  or  something,  it  was  spring.  Colonel  Parti  always  used  to  say  to  me,  his  English  wasn't  too  good  but  it  was  a  hell  of  a  lot  better  than  my  Thai  which  didn't  exist,  he  always  used  to  say  &quot;Sergeant,  after  the  war  I  come  to  Big  PX&quot;-that's  what  they  called  [REDACTED],  the  Big  PX-&quot;I  come  to  Big  PX  and  we  play  golf.&quot; firing  some  guy's  M-1  all  the  way  through  the  retreat  whichwas  a  night-  mare  and  therefore  everybody  was  always  very  respectful  of  him  even  though  he  was  only  a  houseboy  ...  Anyhow,  Kim  had  told  me  Colonel  Parti  was  a  high-ranked  champion  golfer.  That's  how  I  knew  it.  He  reminds  me  of  poor  people,  thought  the  young  man,  poor  people  whom  I  hate.  The  Chinese  pulled  all  these  night  attacks,  said  the  sergeant.  The  babble  of  God-given  senility,  said  the  listener  to  his  inner  ear.  It  was  terrifying.  There'd  be  these  terrifying  bugles,  you'd  sit  up  in  your  sleeping  bag  hearing  the  bugles  which  sounded  like  they  were  coming  from  every  which  way,  all  around  you,  ev-  erybody  grabbing  his  weapon  and  run-  ning  around  like  a  chicken  with  his  head  cut  off,  DivArty  would  be  put-  ting  down  a  barrage  you  could  hear  it  but  God  knows  what  they  thought  they  were  firing  at,  your  communica-  tions  trenches  would  be  full  of  insane  Chinese,  flares  popping  in  the  sky-  I  consign  you  to  history,  said  his  hearer.  I  close,  forever,  the  book.  Once,  they  wanted  to  send  me  to  cooks-and-bakers  school,  said  the  ser-  geant  who  was  wearing  a  dull-red  bathrobe,  but  I  told  them  no,  I  couldn't  feature  myself  a  cook,  that's  why  I  was  in  heavy  weapons.  This  par-  ty  at  [REDACTED]  was  the  high  point  of  that  tour.  I  never  beforeor  since  saw  thirty-seven  washtubs  full  of  curry  and  I  would  like  to  go  to  that  country  some-  day  and  talk  to  those  people  some  more,  they  were  great  people.  Sutchai  wanted  to  be  Prime  Minister  of  [REDACTED],  that  was  his  ambition,  never  made  it  to  my  knowledge  but  I  keep  looking  for  him  in  the  newspaper,  you  never  know.  I  was  on  this  plane  going  from  [REDACTED]  to  Brooke  Medical  Center  in  San  Antonio,  I  had  to  have  some  scans,  I  didn't  even  know  they  had  golf  in  &amp;  there  were  all  these  young  troopers  [REDACTED]  but  he  was  supposed  to  be  some  kind  of  hot-shot  golf  player,  I  heard  he'd  been  on  their  Olympic  golf  team  at  one  time,  funny  to  think  of  them  having  one  butthey  were  sur-  prising  and  beautiful  people,  our  house-  boy  Kim,  we  had  these  Krian  house-  boys  who  kept  the  tent  policed  upand  cleaned  your  rifle  and  did  the  laundry,  pretty  near  everybody  in  Kria  is  named  Kim  by  the  way,  Kim  had  been  with  the  division  from  the  beginning  and  had  gone  to  the  Yalu  with  the  division  in  '50  when  the  Chinese  came  in  and  kicked  our  asses  all  the  way  back  to  the  38th  and  Kim  had  been  in  a  six-by-six  on  the  plane,  they  were  all  little  girls.  Looked  to  be  about  sixteen.  T  hey  all  had  these  O.D.  turtlenecks  with  Class  A  uniforms  if  you  can  imagine,  they  were  the  sloppiest  soldiers  I  ever  did  see,  the  all-volunteer  Army  I  sup-  pose  I  know  I  shouldn't  criticize.  Go  to  cooks-and-bakers  school,  bake  there,  thought  the  young  man.  Bake  a  bathrobe  of  bread.  Thirty-seven  damn  washtubs,  said  the  sergeant.  If  you  can  imagine.  Requiescat  in  pace.  They  don't  really  have  worm  curry,  said  the  sergeant.  I  just  made  that  up  to  fool  you. "