 b"NOVEMBER  13,  1823  WAS  walking  home  from  the  theatre  with  Goethe  this  evening  when  we  saw  a  small  boy  in  a  plum-colored  waistcoat.  [REDACTED],  Goe-  the  said,  is  the  silky  apple  butter  on  the  good  brown  bread  of  possibility.  Decemser  9,  1823  OETHE  had  sent  me  an  invitation  to  dinner.  As  I  entered  his  sitting  room  I  found  him  warming  his  hands  before  a  cheerful  fire.  We  discussed  the  meal  to  come  at  some  length,  for  the  planning  of  it  had  been  an  occasion  of  earnest  thought  to  him  and  he  was  in  quite  good  spirits  about  the  antici-  pated  results,  which  includedsweet-  breads  prepared  in  the  French  manner  with  celery  root  and  paprika.  Food,  said  Goethe,  is  the  topmost  taper  on  the  golden  candelabrum  of  existence.  January  11,  1824  INNER  alone  with  Goethe.  Goethe  said,  &quot;I  will  now  confide  to  you  some  of  my  ideas  about  music,  something  I  havebeen  considering  for  many  years.  You  will  have  noted  that  although  certain  members  of  the  ani-  mal  kingdom  make  a  kind  of  music-  one  speaks  of  the  'song'  of  birds,  for  example-no  animal  known  to  us  takespart  in  what  may  be  termed  an  organized  musical  performance.  Man  alone  does  that.  I  have  wondered  about  crickets-whether  their  evening  ca-  cophony  might  be  considered  in  this  light,  as  a  species  of  performance,  al-  beit  one  of  little  significance  to  our  ears.  I  have  asked  Humboldt  about  it,  and  Humboldt  replied  that  he  thought  not,  that  it  is  merely  a  bad  habit  on  the  part  of  crickets.  The  greatpoint  here,  the  point  that  I  may  choose  to  enlarge  upon  in  some  future  work,  is  not  that  the  members  of  the  animal  kingdom  do  not  unite  wholeheartedly  in  this  musi-  cal  way  but  that  man  does,  to  the  eternal  comfort  and  glory  of  his  soul.&quot;  Music,  Goethe  said,  is  the  frozen  tapioca  in  the  ice  chest  of  History.  Marce  22,  1824  GOETHE  had  been  desirous  of  mak-  ing  the  acquaintance  of  a  young  Englishman,  a  Lieutenant  Whitby,  then  in  Weimar  on  business.  I  con-  ducted  this  gentleman  to  Goethe's  house,  where  Goethe  greeted  us  most  cordially  and  offered  us  wine  and  bis-  cuits.  English,  he  said,  was  a  wholly  splendid  language,  which  had  given  him  the  deepest  pleasure  over  many  years.  He  had  mastered  it  early,  he  told  us,  in  order  to  be  able  to  savor  the  felicities  and  tragic  depths  of  Shake-  speare,  with  whom  no  author  in  the  world,  before  or  since,  could  rightfully  be  compared.  We  were  in  a  most  pleasant  mood  and  continued  to  talk  about  the  accomplishments  of  the  young  lieutenant's  countrymen  until  quite  late.  The  English,  Goethe  said  in  parting,arethe  shining  brown  var-  nish  on  the  sad  chiffonier  of  civiliza-  tion.  Lieutenant  Whitby  blushed  most  noticeably.  Aprir  7,  1824  HEN  I  entered  Goethe's  house  at  noon,  a  wrapped  parcel  was  standing  in  the  foyer.  &quot;And  what  do  you  imagine  this  may  be?&quot;  asked  Goe-  the  with  a  smile.  I  could  not  for  the  life  of  me  fathom  what  the  parcel  might  contain,  for  it  was  most  oddly  shaped.  Goethe  explained  that  it  was  a  sculpture,  a  gift  from  his  friend  van  den  Broot,  the  Dutch  artist.  He  un-  wrapped  the  package  with  the  utmost  care,  and  I  was  seized  with  admiration  when  the  noble  figure  within  was  re-  vealed:  a  representation,  in  bronze,  of  a  young  woman  dressed  as  Diana,  her  bow  bent  and  an  arrow  on  the  string.  We  marvelled  together  at  the  perfec-  tionof  form  and  fineness  of  detail,  most  of  all  at  the  indefinable  aura  of  spirituality  which  radiated  from  the  work.  &quot;Truly  astonishing!&quot;  Goethe  exclaimed,  and  I  hastened  to  agree.  Art,  Goethe  said,  is  the  four  per  cent  interest  on  the  municipal  bond  of  life.    He  was  very  pleased  with  this  remark  and  repeated  it  several  times.  Jung  18,  1824  oETHE  had  been  having  great  dif-  ficulties  with  a  particular  actress  at  the  theatre,  a  person  who  conceived  that  her  own  notion  of  how  her  role  was  to  be  played  was  superior  to  Goe-  the's.  &quot;It  is  not  enough,&quot;  he  said,  sighing,  &quot;that  I  have  mimed  every  gesture  for  the  poor  creature,  that  nothing  has  been  left  unexplored  in  this  character  I  myself  have  created,  willed  into  being.  She  persists  in  what  she  terms  her  'interpretation,'  which  is  ruining  the  play.&quot;  He  went  on  to  dis-  cussthe  sorrows  of  managing  a  thea-  tre,  even  the  finest,  and  the  exhausting  detail  that  must  be  attended  to,  every  jot  and  tittle,  if  the  performances  are  to  be  fit  for  a  discriminating  public.  Actors,  he  said,  are  the  Scotch  weevils  in  the  salt  pork  of  honest  effort.  I  loved  himmore  than  ever,  and  we  parted  with  an  affectionate  handshake.  SerremsEr  1,  1824  ODAY  Goethe  inveighed  against  certain  critics  who  had,  he  said,  completely  misunderstood  Lessing.  He  spoke  movingly  about  how  such  obtuseness  had  partially  em-  bittered  Lessing's  last  years,  and  spec-  ulated  that  it  was  because  Lessing  was  both  critic  and  dramatist  that  the  at-  tacks  had  been  of  more  than  usual  ferocity.  Critics,  Goethe  said,  are  the  cracked  mirror  in  the  grand  ballroom  of  the  creative  spirit.  No,  I  said,  they  were,  rather,  the  extra  baggage  on  the  great  cabriolet  of  conceptual  progress.  &quot;Eckermann,&quot;  said  Goethe,  &quot;shutup.&quot;  "