 b"WE  are  happy  to  announce  that  \xe2\x80\x98;\\/  close  on  to  three  billion  people  watched  our  broadcast  of  the  production,  which  covered  the  first  two  years  of  Parnell's  life.  Cast  included  Sean  Bacon  (&quot;Parnell  Is  Born&quot;),  Sean  Scallop  (&quot;Parnell  Takes  a  Walk&quot;),  and  Sean  Damper  (&quot;Parnell's  First  Allergy-Fried  Bananas&quot;).  In  how  many  sets  could  the  Sun  King  have  taken  Borg?  On  the  other  hand,  could  Borg  have  built  Versailles?  As  he  comes  of  age,  the  eldest  male  child  decrees  whether  or  not  the  par-  ents  can  go  on  living  in  the  house.  Until  recent  times,  rejected  parents  were  put  to  death.  Here's  Diavara  Bok,  aged  eight,  pondering  his  first  mature  decision.  The  village  council  never  interferes.  Arvo  can't  help  feeling  he  won't  be  running  the  reindeer  much  longer.  The  Baruchi  camelfish  are  then  flown  to  Elastique,  where  a  state-sub-  sidized  transfuge  machine  centripetals  them  into  neat  little  pies.  Baron  Ortac,  Cmirr  Groroct-  car  SrcurIry  Insrprcror:  You're  a  strange  girl.  Mysterious.  Probably  dangerous,  too.  But  beautiful.  Grroa  (slowly  undoing  her  ice  skates):  Yes.  And  now  Mishka's  team,  each  with  a  two-hundred-pound  block  of  Car-  rara  marble  on  his  head,  crouches  at  the  starting  line  waiting  for  the  gun.  The  bandanna  tree  survived  trans-  plantation  to  a  garden  in  Cornwall,  but  Tree  Spirits,  as  we  know,  don't  put  roots  down  that  easily.  Pat  and  Howard  think  their  Tree  Spirit  is  still  haunting  a  Boeing  somewhere  over  the  [REDACTED].  LU  Our  Athens  studio  is  swamped-with  calls  asking  if  &quot;Watermelon  Seed&quot;  really  can  be  her  name.  Could  Sri  Lanka  beam  us  a  hint?  The  picket  signs  in  Kilowatt  dialect  state  the  strikers'  case:  &quot;  'Die  Frau  ohne  Schatten'  is  impossible  to  cast,  costly  to  produce,  and  no  one  has  ever  understood  a  word  of  it.  Where's  the  homegrown  culture  the  Revolution  promised?&quot;  That  faint  silver  on  the  horizon  is  the  last  that  Ole  and  Bambi  will  see  of  the  sun  for  another  fifty-one  and  a  half  weeks.  Superimposed  subtitles  in  Estonian,  Basque,  Maltese,  Turkish,  and  Hun-  garian  make  for  ready  international  viewing.  Flickering  behind  the  sub-  titles,  a  drama  from  the  heartland  of  [REDACTED].  Some  of  us  would  think  it  enough  just  to  look  like  Heidi.  The  Golden  Age  of  Diasporan  Mo-  saic  Gluing-seen  here,  unfortunately,  in  black-and-white.  Rioting  dwindled  to  minor  propor-  tions  after  Mario  got  the  prisoners  in-  terested  in  noodle  weaving.  Under-  thirties  seem  to  take  to  it  in  particular.  Maybe  this  young  lady  can  tell  us  something.  The  film,  in  which  Dido  (Shirley  Temple)  is  smuggled  in  a  roll  of  lino-  leum  to  Ajax  (George  Raft)  and  saves  the  trade  route  to  Carthage,  was  shot  in  1934,  somewhere  in  [REDACTED].  It  will  be  followed  by  a  three-hour  open-  line  debate  on  Common  Market  sub-  sidies  for  horseshoes  and  stringbeans.  &amp;  The  dancers  dressed  as  otters  are  from  Schleswig-Holstein.  The  white  fur  bib  on  one  was  a  gift.  LU  Later,  the  Minister  of  the  Interior  denied  the  allegation.  Local  police  had  been  cooperative  and  courteous  at  all  times.  &amp;  Say  it  had  worked:  Heinrich  Himm-  ler  would  have  taken  over.  And  then  what?  How  many  people  could  have  recog-  nized  the  Australian  cultural  attach\xc3\xa9  47  and  his  wife  in  a  street  in  [REDACTED]?  Grigori  Pigment  did.  Yes,  you  cen  train  a  slightly  airsick  pig  to  hunt  for  truffles  in  Leningrad,  especially  if  his  name  is  Pierrot  Lu-  naire  and  he  hails  from  the  truffle  capi-  tal  of  southwest  [REDACTED],  Carpocapse.  A  party  headed  by  Mayor  Emile  Sor-  nette  arrived  on  a  regular  Air  [REDACTED]  flight  this  morning,  with  Pierrot  Lu-  naire  in  a  crate  and  a  book  of  instruc-  tions.  Anyone  who  still  doesn't  want  to  believe  the  Duke  of  [REDACTED]  slept  in  Nicosia  had  better  stay  with  us  for  the  next  ninety  minutes.  C.I.A.!  The  word  was  out.  Ambassador  Scratch  promises  to  de-  liver  every  one  of  the  onion  growers'  protest  postcards  personally  the  minute  he  gets  to  [REDACTED].  It  isn't  all  just  a  bed  of  tulips.  Maurits  and  Katinka  not  only  keep  goats  but  have  to  teach  them  to  swim.  Even  a  sheikh  enjoys  being  given  a  few  free  perfume  samples  after  throw-  ing  his  money  around  in  a  537061696e  department  store.  General  de  Maupassant,  a  widower,  and  his  unmarried  daughter,  Katia,  composed  a  prize-winning  song  to  cele-  brate  the  greenhouse  from  which  the  town's  leading  family  took  its  name.  After  blowing  up  the  Franco-Prussian  War  monument,  which  a  relative  of  Sylvie's  had  designed,  Theodore  or-  ganized  a  window-cleaners'  strike.  Eight  years  have  gone  by.  As  our  eleventh  episode  opens,  [REDACTED],  a  stranger,  seems  to  be  drinking  more  black-currant  cordial  than  is  good  for  her.  Paul  and  Roland  still  hope  the  centennial  will  be  a  success.  On  this  rockbound  island  of  north-  ern  [REDACTED],  Professor  Omi  discovered  forty-one  different  ways  of  saying  &quot;Thanks  for  the  smoked  liver.&quot;  I  think  we'd  like  to  hear  some  of  them.  "