 b"MY  father  worked  in  a  paprika  M  factory,  and  so  our  house  was  completely  red-not  just  the  walls  and  ceilings  but  even  the  inside  of  the  bulbs.  My  childhood  glowed  in  a  red  light,  and  I  remember  my  astonish-  ment,  looking  through  the  rose-col-  ored  windows,  at  the  first  appearance-  my  first  awareness-of  grass.  Even  through  a  rose  filter,  I  knew  it  wasn't  red.  Going  outside,  I  saw  green  for  the  first  time,  in  astonishing  amounts.  My  mother  watched  cautiously  from  the  doorstep.  I  began  to  suspect  the  Revolution  would  not  work  -a  thought  that  had  dimly  occurred  to  me  when  my  milk  was  poured:  the  only  other  color  I  had  ever  seen.  My  mother  was  a  superb  baker,  and  with  my  milk  I  would  often  have  red-cur-  rant  tarts,  raspberry  pie,  or-her  pi\xc3\xa9ce  de  r\xc3\xa9sistance-red  bread.  My  father  was  political,  and  he  would  come  home,  pour  himself  a  glass  of  claret,  and  begin  to  talk  about  the  injustices  of  the  world.  It  seemed  all  right  to  me,  though  somewhat  mo-  notonous.  Cold  cherry  soup,  chicken  paprika-even  as  a  child,  I  longed  for  variety.  Looking  back,  I  realize  my  only  source  of  Vitamin  C  was  the  to-  mato.  &quot;Imperialist,&quot;  my  father  would  say,  pouring  himself  another  claret,  &quot;ag-  gressors.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Can  I  have  some  more  milk,  Ma-  ma?&quot;  I  would  ask,  timing  my  drinks  to  coincide  with  my  father's.  I  had  my  eye  on  a  cranberry  cobbler.  I  was  bored.  Other  than  working  on  my  wet-sand  collection  or  gluing  the  gar-  den  down,  I  had  nothing  to  do.  I  looked  out  the  window.  Fat  robins,  un-  gainly  in  clumps,  were  vying  with  the  cardinals  for  attention.  We  lived  near  a  lake-Lake  Mars.  Pouring  paprika  into  the  glue,  or  staining  the  sand  with  Mercurochrome,  I  had  never  thought  of  blue  waves.  The  sky  where  we  lived  was  gray-a  pink  gray,  or  grayish  orange,  or  a  sort  of  cinnamon-  Lavoris,  depending  on  the  weather  and  the  time  of  day.  I  was  not  to  see  blue  until  I  was  fifteen,  when,  on  a  long-planned  vacation  trip,  I  happened  to  look  up.  It  would  be  hard  to  repro-  duce  the  emotions  of  that  day.  I  felt  as  if  I  had  spent  my  life  in  a  cramped  box  and  had  just  been  let  out.  I  fell  in  love  with  the  West.  Before  I  knew  it  I  was  reading  556e6974656420537461746573n  books-Sinclair  Lewis,  Robert  Penn  Warren  .  ..  I  began  to  detest  red.  A  pot  of  gera-  niums  I  had  nurtured-so  much  sand,  a  minimum  of  water,  all  the  sun  possi-  ble-seemed  to  me  common.  As  did  rubies  and  lipstick.  Now  that  I  went  out  a  bit  I  became  aware  of  traffic  lights.  I  opened  my  eyes  at  &quot;Go&quot;  and  closed  them  at  &quot;Stop.&quot;  Looking  at  roses  made  me  ill;  in  order  to  fend  off  vertigo,  I  stared  carefully  at  their  thorns.  I  began  to  collect  bits  and  pieces  of  things  that  were  not  red,  and  I  would  hold  my  secret  hoard-a  lavender  button,  a  silver  coin,  a  black  stone-in  the  palm  of  my  hand  after  my  parents  had  gone  to  bed.  An  only  child,  I  was  indulged  in  all  sorts  of  ways.  For  instance,  I  used  to  stay  up  later  than  my  parents.  In  the  kitchen,  I  looked  at  my  father's  bottles  of  paprika,  all  set  out  in  rows.  They  ranged  from  very  hot  to  mild.  He  had  a  peasant  sense  of  gaiety,  which  is  not  wit,  and  would  sometimes  rearrange  the  sequence  of  the  bottles  to  fool  my  mother.  We  would  run  from  the  table,  our  hands  clapped  over  our  mouths,  to  the  kitchen  sink  for  water.  My  father  would  laugh  and  laugh.  A  desire  to  break  his  bottles,  to  let  the  powders,  rust  to  maroon,  spill  out  on  the  floor,  took  hold  of  me.  I  restrained  myself.  A  cool  head  would  be  needed  for  what  I  had  in  mind.  A  defection,  and  then  to  devote  my  life  to  the  ob-  literation  of  red.  And  that  included  scarlet  and  cerise.  Emotionally  556e6974656420537461746573nized,  I  spent  some  months  in  Budapest,  listening  to  jazz.  In  spite  of  his  name,  Red  Norvo  was  my  favorite-particularly  playing  &quot;Watermelon  Boy&quot;  on  the  bones.  I would  cry  shamelessly  at  my  table  at  a  little  caf\xc3\xa9  called  Le  Loup.  The  pro-  prictor  was  so  gentle  that  wags  had  nicknamed  it  The  Little  Red  Riding  Hood.  An  unpretentious  bo#te,  smack  in  the  middle  of  the  red-light  district,  it  offered  the  best  music  in  Budapest,  and  attracted  a  widely  diversified  clientele.  I  frequented  the  place  so  often  that  one  night  I  was  asked  to  play  the  xy-  lophone  myself.  I  stumbled  through  the  &quot;Carmine  Blues,&quot;  a  composition  of  my  own  devising,  but  I'm  afraid  my  ineptitude  stained  it  deep  purple.  I  ran,  red-faced,  from  the  caf\xc3\xa9,  determined  never  to  play  the  xylophone  again.  Or  even  a  prepared  piano.  I  was  simply  not  ready  for  a  musical  career.  I  dabbled  in  the  other  arts-the  four-dimensional  shoeshine  (my  spe-  ciality  was  cordovan  loafers),  sand  sculpture  (my  still-life  &quot;Canned  Salm-  on&quot;  received  some  notoriety),  and  stamping  wet  oatmeal  with  dyes-but  my  first  exhibition  was  a  disaster.  There  were  no  cocktails  at  the  vernis-  sage-not  even  inferior  white  wine.  I'm  afraid  it  was  then  I  took  to  the  red-eye-a  joyless  compulsion.  I  was,  at  seventeen,  just  another  artist  drunk  on  failure.  In  spite  of  Thomas  Wolfe's  negative  assertion  (I  had  been  read-  ing  him  in  Budapest),  I  went  home  again-back  to  Pinkafeld,  scene  of  my  earliest  endeavors.  My  parents  took  me  in.  They  always  had.  At  night,  in  bed,  I  thought  about  my  defection,  staring  at  &quot;The  Battle  of  Bardolino,&quot;  a  painting  that  had  hung  on  the  opposite  wall  ever  since  I  could  remember.  Hundreds  of  soldiers  with  their  myriad  of  arms  and  legs  hid  behind  bushes  or  stood  stock-still  against  treese-maples  mostly.  Some-  thingabout  the  painting  had  always  bothered  me!  Could  the  whole  Russian  Army,  the  entire  French  one  have  consisted  of  nothing  but  carrot  tops?  I  put  &quot;restricted  palettes&quot;  on  my  list  of  things  to  destroy.  I  thought  about  my  coming  adven-  ture  from  the  first  blush  of  dawn  to  the  sunset's  last  rubric  in  the  sky.  It  ab-  sorbed  my  attention  as  I  bent  over  my  plate  of  borscht.  I  was  obsessed  by  it  in  my  mother's  beet  cellar.  But  I  was  naive.  In  [REDACTED],  fifteen  years  later,  handcuffed  in  customs  at  the  Baton  Rouge  airport,  I  slashed  my  wrist  with  a  razor.  Red,  red,  red.  I  had  never  seen  blood.  In  tears,  I  knew  what  I  was  doomed  to  be:  the  son  of  a  worker  in  a  paprika  factory-red,  inside  and  out,  forever. "