 b"THE  Abyssinian  cat  will  not  bear  kittens;  at  some  point  during  her  pregnancies  she  aborts  them.  The  veterinarian  who  sees  her  refers  to  these  as  spontaneous  abor-  tions.  After  the  abortions  the  cat  eats  roses-yellow  roses,  tea  roses,  Seashell  roses,  white  roses  on  thornless  stems.  My  mother  knows  she  will  then  find  the  cat,  emptied  of  her  litter,  crouched  on  the  highest  shelf  of  the  linen  closet.  My  mother  always  keeps  roses  in  her  house.  She  is  adamant  about  the  value  of  certain  things:  old  Persian  rugs,  McGredy's  Ivory  roses,  Abyssinian  cats.  Sometimes  I  have  seen  her  watch  the  cat  doubtfully,  stroking  her-not  with  her  fingertips  but  with  her  knuckles,  her  hand  curved  like  a  boxer's  fist  when  his  manager  is  lacing  the  gloves,  at  once  relaxed  and  expect-  ant-down  the  nape  of  the  neck  to  a  point  between  the  shoulder  blades,  where  her  knuckles  rest,  having  found  the  cat's  center  of  gravity.  The  cat  stares  through  the  window.  Her  shoulder  blades  seem  thinner  than  the  bones  in  my  mother's  hands.  I  have  seen  my  mother,  when  she  thinks  she  is  alone,  examining  her  breasts  in  a  mirror.  Whenever  I  call,  she  tells  me  first  about  the  cat,  whose  nuances  of  behav-  ior  must  be  studied  and  reflected  upon  in  the  way  that  Eskimos  analyze  fall-  ing  snow.  &quot;Perhaps  her  pelvis  is  too  narrow,&quot;     my  mother  said  the  last  time  we  talked.  &quot;Mine  nearly  was.&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  know  that,&quot;  I  said.  \xe2\x80\x9cNO?\xe2\x80\x9d  (\xe2\x80\x98N0.,\xe2\x80\x99  'You  don't  need  to  worry,&quot;  my  mother  said.  &quot;Yours  isn't.&quot;  MY  grandmother  hated  cats.  She  is  supposed  to  have  thrown  one  of  the  earlier  Abyssinians  out  of  the  win-  dow  of  a  second-story  apartment;  the  cat  landed  lightly  on  the  roof  of  a  cream-colored  Mercedes-Benz.  It  was  the  eve  of  my  mother's  wedding  when  this  happened.  Her  eyes,  the  next  morning,  were  painfully  red  behind  her  veil,  which  my  father  forgot  to  lift  before  he  kissed  her.  My  grandmother  was  said  to  have  given  them  an  enor-  mous  sum  of  money;  she  wanted  them  to  buyan  island.  [REDACTED]  were  the  only  way  you  could  be  sure  of  what  was  yours.  In  the  end,  she  doubted  every-  one  around  her-the  priest,  the  neurosurgeons,  my  mother.  I  remem-  ber  her  as  an  old  woman  who  could  not  sleep.  Once,  when  I  went  into  her  room  to  kiss  her  good  night,  she  took  my  hand  and  held  it  to  her  throat,  asking  me  whether  I  could  feel  the  pulse.  Her  skin  felt  like  a  series  of  damp  veils,  like  the  wet  paper  you  fold  over  the  wires  when  you  are  making  papier-miach\xc3\xa9  animals;  it  was  cool  against  the  tips  of  my  fingers.  I  could  smell  her  Chanel  No.  22.  &quot;I  feel  it,&quot;  I  told  her,  though  I  wasn't  sure.  She  was  angry  and  thrust  my  hand  away.  I  think  my  mother  envisioned  oxy-  gen  tents  and  sudden  intimacies,  but  my  grandmother  broke  her  neck  fall-  ing  down  a  flight  of  icy  steps  one  evening  in  1979.  She  had  rested  fora  time  at  the  bottom  of  the  steps,  one  gloved  hand  below  hercheek,  the  other  hand  (mysteriously  ungloved)  outstretched  before  her  in  the  snow.  When  they  lifted  her,  one  of  the  am-  bulance  men  blew  the  snow  from  the  deep  creases  in  her  knuckles.  My  mother  called  the  undertaker  to  in-  quire  about  theuse  of  perfume.  &quot;She  has  always,  always,  worn  Chanel  No.  22,&quot;  my  mother  told  them.  Worn  it,  treading  delicately  down  the  centers  of  the  icy  steps,  on  the  inside  of  her  wrists,  above  the  collarbones  that  curved  like  gull's  wings  against  the  cloth  of  her  little  black  dress,  and  (for  all  anyone  knew)  in  the  blue-veined  hollows  of  her  skinny  thighs.  Before  the  funeral,  my  mother  daubed  Chanel  behind  my  grandmother's  ears.  Her  head  was  posed  oddly  on  the  pillow,  her  neck  craned  into  a  rigid,  chin-  upward  position,  the  way  someone  will  suddenly  stare  if  you  say,  &quot;Look,  sky-  writing!&quot;  Afterward,  immediately  be-  fore  they  closed  the  casket,  one  ofthe  neurosurgeons  who  had  been  attend-  ing  my  grandmother  since  her  first  stroke  touched  my  mother  lightly  on  the  arm.  &quot;You  know,  she  wasn't  in  any  pain,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Your  mother  probably  never  even  knew  what  hit  her.&quot;  My  mother  made  a  barely  percepti-  ble  movement  with  her  left  shoulder,  upon  which  the  neurosurgeon's  hand  rested.  No  one,  not  even  someone  who  was  watching  closely,  could  have  called  that  movement  a  shrug.  All  of  this,  my  mother  insists,  was  probably  for  the  best.  &quot;In  all  serious-  ness,  I  don't  know  whether  she  could  have  endured  another  year,&quot;  she  says.  The  old  woman  sometimes  forgot  the  names  of  the  cats,  the  various  species  of  roses;  she  confused  the  names  of  composers  with  those  of  television  anchormen.  In  the  last  few  weeks  she  is  supposed  to  have  taken  to  hiding  food  in  her  bedroom,  eating  it  fur-  tively  at  night.  AND  now  my  grandmother  does  not  have  to  endure,  as  my  mother  does,  the  spectacle  of  her  grandchild  as  a  figure  skater.  According  to  my  mother,  skating  in  the  Travelling  Ice  Adventures  is  only  one  or  two  ex-  " b"tremely  narrow  social  notches  above  working  in  an  actual  circus.  She  came  to  see  me  once,  in  a  brand-new  city  am-  phitheatre  so  luminous  and  silent  thatthe  sounds  of  our  skates  hissed  back  at  us  from  the  curving  walls.  The  streets  around  the  am-  phitheatre  had  been  plas-  tered  for  weeks  with  posters  advertising  our  coming.  I  could  tell  that  my  mother  was  shocked  by  my  face  on  those  billboards,  two  stories  high.  When  we  spoke  ofthe  show  later,  over  dinner,  she  was  diplomatic.  &quot;Those  lights  do  make  your  skin  look  odd,  don't  they,  darling,&quot;  she  said.  It  is  the  lights-streak-  ing  the  ice  in  gaudy  pur-  ples,  watermelon  reds,  deep  indigo-that  most  people  remember,  not  the  skating.  She  speared  a  scallop  with  the  tines  of  her  fork,  scrubbing  it  vigorously  in  the  sauce.  &quot;But  I  did  like  it  when  you  went  into  those  pir-  ouettes,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;If  I  squinted,  I  didn't  really  have  to  see  the  ice.  I  only  saw  you,  and  it  looked  as  if  youwere  dancing  by  yourself  instead  of  with  that  bear.&quot;  &quot;There's  nothing  wrong  with  the  bear,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;No,  darling,  I  didn't  say  there  [REDACTED];  she  said.  &quot;He  was  very  amus-  ing.&quot;  &quot;Whenever  you  unsquinted  your  eyes.&quot;  &quot;I  dislike  glaring  lights.&quot;  &quot;It  is  a  show.  For  little  kids.  Who  like  glaring  lights.&quot;  &quot;Of  course,&quot;  she  said.  The  bear's  face  is  painted  in  an  amicable  grin.  When  we  waltz,  he  looks  out  over  my  shoulder,  grinning  and  nodding.  The  photographer  used  toliketo  photograph  the  bear  like  that,  catching  the  line  of  my  bare  back  beneath  the  bear's  sloping  jaw.  For  a  while  I  was  sleeping  with  the  photog,  rapher,  who  travelled  with  us  doing  publicity  stills  for  local  television  spots.  He  was  a  very  good  photogra-  pher,  and  he  left  to  work  for  Japan  Air  Lines.  He  called  me  one  evening      from  [REDACTED],  where  he  has  been  taking  picturesof  Japanese  steward-  esses.  They  are  all  beautiful,  he  says,  although  he  is  notused  to  their  eyes;  he  can't  seem  to  bring  out  any  reflec-  tions  in  them.  They  arrive  at  his  stu-  dio  with  truckloads  of  kimonos;  they  pose  with  their  hands  in  their  sashes,  and  their  skin  is  powdered  to  the  color  of  the  insides  of  almonds.  After  dinner  my  mother  kissed  me  good  night;  I  had  to  catch  a  taxito  the  airport.  After  the  kiss  she  paused,  her  hand  still  cupping  my  cheek.  I  could  feel  her  wedding  ring,  round  and  cool  against  the  knuckle.  &quot;Roses  have  be-  come  my  whole  life,&quot;  she  told  me.  &quot;I  wish  you  could  find  something  that  would  suit  you,  something  you  could  put  your  whole  heart  into.&quot;  She  paused.  &quot;Don't  think  you  know  every-  thing,&quot;  she  said  finally.  &quot;It  could  hap-  pen  to  you.  You  could  end  up  alone.&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cI  DON'T  like  to  see  you  taking  chances,&quot;  my  partner  says.  He  is  already  halfdressed,  wearing  the  bear  mask,  which  rests  against  his  chest.  His  body  always  seems  incredibly  slen-  der  before  he  puts  on  the  rest  of  his  shaggy  bear's  outht.  Half  man,  half  bear;  I  rather  like  him  in  his  hybrid  condition.  He  watches  me  put  on  my  makeup,  blinking  at  the  light  in  my  streaked  blond  hair.  My  hair  wasn't  always  blond,  but  it  seems  that  the  promoters  of  the  show  cannot  envision  a  dark-haired  woman  dancing  with  a  bear-only  a  blond  one.  He  lifts  a  human  hand  and  strokes  his  dark  bear's  cheek  softly.  &quot;You  could  lose  your  job,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;They  don't  mind  canning  the  women.  They  can't  come  by  male  skaters  anymore,  so  they're  careful,  but  women  skaters  area  dime  a  dozen.  You've  seen  those  girls  following  Harry  around,  trying  to  catch  his  eye.&quot;  &quot;Harry  doesn't  skating,&quot;  I  say.  I  choose  my  lipstick  judiciously.  If  you  take  very  good  care  of  your  lip-  sticks,  you  trim  the  tips  with  a  razor  blade  so  that  they  give  you  the  cleanest  line.  My  lipsticks  are  always  blunt-I  used  some  of  them  for  years-and  sometimes  my  mouth  seems  pouting  and  smeared.  I  unscrew  the  lipstick  " b"from  its  gold  cylinder,  I  shape  my  mouth  into  a  firm  oval.  The  mirror  blazes  with  the  reflections  of  small  blue-white  bulbs;  I  can  see  the  bear  watching  curiously  over  my  shoulder.  I  am  not  good  with  the  makeup  to-  night,  and  my  partner  notices.  &quot;It's  not  whether  he  knows  skating,  it's  whether  you  want  to  keep  your  job.&quot;  He  is  disturbed,  because,  last  week,  I  fled  from  him  in  earnest.  I  skated  fast  and  hard,  eluding  his  rough  bear  paws  until  the  last  possible  moment,  when  our  record  was  run-  ning  out.  When  he  caught  me  I  could  feel  the  heat  of  his  breath  on  my  face.  The  lines  we  had  cut  stretched  behind  us  in  the  glossy  ice.  My  ankles  were  trembling.  He  held  me  softly.  No  one  laughed  or  applauded.  It  will  not  hap-  pen  again.  &quot;Of  course  I  want  to  keep  my  job,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;Nobody  wants  to  lose  their  job.  Sometimes  I  antagonize  Harry,  some-  times  he  antagonizes  me.  That's  the  way  it  goes.&quot;  I  fold  a  Kleenex  into  an  origami  swan,  which  makes  me  think  of  the  photographer.  In  L.A.  there  must  be  swans.  When  I  was  a  child  I  made  origami  birds,  horses,  strange  fish  in  many-colored  translucent  pa-  pers.  My  mother  urged  me  to  take  up  oil  painting.  &quot;You're  so  artistic,&quot;  she  would  say.  &quot;You  should  make  things  that  will  lest.&quot;  It  was  true-the  ori-  gami  animals  did  not  last.  I  lost  them,  or  the  Abyssinians  tore  them  apart,  or  they  blew  out  of  windows  into  the  street.  I  blot  my  lipstick  with  one  of  the  wings  ofthe  origami  swan.  The  bear  watches  me  closely.  &quot;How  did  you  do  that  with  just  Kleenex?&quot;  he  asks.  &quot;Sometime  I'll  show  you.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  want  to  lose  you,&quot;  he  says  carefully.  &quot;You're  a  good  partner;  you  really  take  it  seriously.  We  understand  each  other.&quot;  ''You're  not  going  to  lose  me.  You're  stuck  with  me  for  a  long  while  yet.&quot;  &quot;If  you  could  just  watch  it  on  the  artistic  stuff.  You  know  how  Harry  feels  when  you  get  artistic.  You  raise  his  blood  pressure  a  couple  of  points.  He  likes  nice  balance,  accuracy,  defini-  tion.  You  go  off  into  a  world  of  your  own,  you're  lost  to  the  rest  of  us,  you  botch  the  rhythms.  That's  what  Harry  sees.  We  try  to  cover  for  you,  but  he  sees.&quot;  &quot;It  hasn't  been  that  often,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;I've  been  sticking  pretty  close  to  the  program,  and  you  know  you  like  it  when  I  change  things.  You  know  you  like  it.&quot; &quot;All  right,  I  like  it,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;It  gets  so  damn  boring  out  there-all  those  little  girls  in  pink  birthday  dresses,  all  the  mothers  in  common-  sense-care  Dacron  pantsuits.  Some-  times  I  think  they're  bringing  the  same  people  in  to  every  show  -they  just  haven't  told  us.  I  think  I  recog-  nize  some  of  the  faces.  I've  seen  them  in  [REDACTED],  in  [REDACTED],  in  Sioux  Falls.  One  of  these  days  I'll  just  start  waving  at  them  and  I  won't  be  able  to  stop.  The  dancing  bear  always  gets  a  laugh  when  he  does  anything  human.  That's  the  point.  Not  that  he's  a  bear  but  that  he's  a  clumsy,  aborted,  blotchy  human  being,  puttering  around  on  his  ice  skates  with  a  blond  woman  in  his  arms.  I  can't  skate  without  music,  you  know!  Even  in  my  head,  when  I  dream  about  skating  I  hear  this  terri-  ble  tinny  music  in  the  background.  I  have  to  hear  it  before  I  can  face  the  ice.&quot;  The  bear's  theme  is  played  on  trum-  " b"pets  and  cymbals.  He  dances  out  into  the  light,  he  spins  into  a  series  of  figure  eights  with  his  paws  arching  above  his  head,  he  cocks  his  head  at  the  audience.  He  told  me  right  away,  as  soon  as  we  started  working  to-  gether,  that  he  was  gay,  that  he  had  once  wanted  to  be  a  welder.  Hundreds  of  little  girls  wave  at  him.  He  is  bathed  ina  pink  spotlight  that  follows  him  across  the  ice,  veering  and  pausing  skittishly.  &quot;I  know,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;It  can  get  to  you.&quot;  &quot;You  can't  fight  it,&quot;  he  says.  He  shakes  his  head.  &quot;Harry  sees  you.  He's  not  dumb.  He  knows  you're  trying  to  sabotage  the  routines,  bring  the  artistic  stuff  in.  You  can't  go  off  on  your  own  like  that;  the  spot  men  don't  know  what  you're  doing.  You  have  to  stay  with  me,  in  my  arms.&quot;  &quot;I'll  stay  withyou,&quot;  I  tell  him.  I  want  the  bear  to  calm  down;  he  seems  badlyshaken.  His  huge  furry  mittens  lie  side  by  side  on  the  dressing  table,  like  companionable  Scottish  terriers.  I  choose  the  small  jar  of  plum-colored  cheek  highlighter.  I  have  always  had  good  cheekbones.  The  bear  pulls  on  his  arms,  and  then  his  legs.  He  has  to  fight  to  get  his  skates  on;the  massive  bear-middle  has  made  him  unwieldy.  I  watch  him  in  the  mirror.  The  bear  will  court  me  with  wit  and  elegance  while  I  skate  in  carefully  circum-  scribed  arcs,  the  light  shining  in  my  blond  hair.  The  meaning  of  this  is  not  lost  on  the  small  girls  who  watch  so  intently  from  the  bleachers.  He  finishes  with  his  skates,  and  al-  though  he  is  thinking  it,  he  does  not  say  &quot;Come  on.&quot;  I  choose  an  eye  pencil  and  remove  its  cap.  Thoughtfully,  taking  great  pains,  I  lean  forward  toward  my  reflection  in  the  mirror  and  fill  in  the  colored  shadows  around  my  eyes.  HARRY  watches  me  from  the  en-  trance  ramp,  keeping  his  hands  in  his  pockets.  Over  his  shoulder,  the  no-smoking  sign  glimmers  purple.  The  narrow-hipped  ballerinas  sidle  meekly  past  him,  emerging  one  by  one  from  the  darkness  into  the  brilliant  light  ofthe  rink.  I  have  seen  Harry  interview  the  ballerinas;  he  leans  for-  ward  confidentially  across  the  width  of  his  marble-topped  desk,  his  hands  rest-  ing  palm  upward,  beseechingly.  He  wriggles  his  fingers;  it  is  somehow  an  extremely  intimate  gesture.  His  office  is  filled  with  cigarette  smoke  and  old  posters  of  Travelling  Ice  Adventures.  He  stares  intently  into  the  ballerina's  " b" eyes  until  she  looks  down,  or  away.  &quot;Are  you  on  the  pill?&quot;  he  asks  finally.  His  fingers  tremble.  Now,  as  the  ballerinas  move  across  the  ice,  the  beam  falls  through  the  translucent  petals  of  their  tutus.  Their  bare  arms,  held  rigidly  above  their  heads,  are  goosepimpled  in  the  sudden  cold.  They  hold  their  heads  down  shyly,  watching  one  another  from  the  corners  of  their  eyes,  and  flutter  across  the  ice  on  their  skates,.  &quot;  Swan  43616e616461again,&quot;  the  bear  says.  &quot;I  hope  to  dance  to  Swan  43616e616461at  Harry's  funeral.&quot;  In  the  darkness  near  us,  children  eat  popcorn  from  oil-stained  white  paper  bags,  staring  at  the  rink  in  a  kind  of  ecstasy,  their  faces  tense.  Beside  me  the  bear  fidgets  with  one  of  his  knees,  which  is  loose.  I  have  never  really  got  ised  to  the  darkness;  you  skate  from  the  shadows  into  the  light  so  fast  that  there  are  always  a  few  moments  when  the  nerves  in  the  retina  of  your  eye  cannot  adjust,  when  you  are  skating  purely  by  instinct.  WHEN  my  mother  called  me  this  afternoon,  she  said  that  the  cat  had  lost  another  litter,  had  vomited  the  petals  of  a  Kordes'  Perfecta  all  across  the  Persian  rug.  &quot;I  might  as  well  give  up  on  her,&quot;  my  mother  said.  &quot;She  will  never  have  the  temperament  for  it.  The  vet  has  prescribed  a  series  of  mild  tranquillizers.  He  says  it  may  be  something  in  the  environment  which  disturbs  her,  it  may  be  purely  psychological.  But  I  really  thought  she  was  going  to  keep  them  this  time.  I  just  had  a  feeling.&quot;  &quot;You  couldn't  know,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  shouldn't  have  forced  her,&quot;  my  mother  said  sadly.  &quot;You  should  see  how  frightened  she  is  of  the  toms.  She  just  looks  at  them  with  her  eyes  squeezed  almost  shut,  and  then  she  flattens  her  whole  body  against  the  floor.  But  her  face  is  so  beautifully  marked;  everyone  notices  the  shadings  in  the  gray  around  her  eyes.  I  think  to  myself  that  if  she  could  only  have  kittens  she  would  feel  tranquil,  that  she'd  adjust  to  them  once  they  were  born.  It  changes  you,  you  know.  I've  never  seen  another  like  her,  Now  I  have  no  choice.&quot;  &quot;You  couldn't  have  known,&quot;  Isaid  again.  &quot;'You've  been  patient  with  her,  haven't  you?&quot;  My  mother  paused,  and  I  could  hear  the  static  in  the  background  rising  and  falling.  It  sounded  as  if  someone,  not  my  mother,  was  breathing,  listening  impatiently  to  the  awkward  silence     that  had  fallen  between  us.  &quot;Did  I  ever  tell  you  that  on  the  day  your  grandmother  died  she  was  running  away  from  home?&quot;  she  said  softly.  &quot;'The  neurosurgeons  had  recom-  mended  confinement.  It  wasn't  that  she  was  dangerous,  but  she  was  badly  in  need  of  counselling,  absolute  quiet  and  rest.  Somehow  she  overheard  a  conversation,  and  she  climbed  out  of  the  window  of  her  room.&quot;  There  was  a  sudden  fumbling  at  her  end  of  the  line,  and  a  silence.  &quot;Here,&quot;  she  said  suddenly.  &quot;I'm  holding  kitty  up  to  the  phone  so  that  she  can  hear  you.  Whisper  something  in  her  ear,  just  between  the  two  of  you,  won't  you?  Whisper  something.&quot;  &quot;J  HAD  a  letter  from  Ben  this  morning,&quot;&quot;  the  bear  says  sud-  denly.  &quot;Ben  is  doing  fine,  isn't  he?&quot;  Ben  is  my  lover,  the  photographer.  &quot;If  you  had  a  letter  from  him,  then  you  should  know  how  he  is,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;As  far  as  I  can  tell,  he's  O.K.,&quot;  the  bear  says.  &quot;But  there  is  this  odd  tone  to  the  letter-a  disjointedness,  as  if  he  can't  really  make  the  connections,  he  just  knows  where  they  should  be.  I'm  used  to  Ben,  you  know;  I've  worked  with  him  for  months.  That's  not  the  way  he  talks.&quot;  He  pauses,  looking  away  from  me  into  the  bril-  liantly  lit  rink.  The  ballerinas  skitter  and  regroup.  They  cling  to  one  an-  other,  glittering,  their  bodies  transpar-  ent  beads  fitted  together  on  the  slenderest  stems.  &quot;I  don't  think  that  anything's  really  gone  wrong,&quot;  I  tell  him.  &quot;It  might  just  be  L.A.-some  kind  of  culture  shock.&quot;  I  can  see  the  profile  of  the  bear,  dark  and  thoughtful.  He  strokes  his  cheek,  clumsily  now  that  he  has  his  paw  on.  The  paw  has  no  claws-only  black  rubber  hooks  that  curve  down  over  the  broad  fur  toes.  &quot;I  don't  know,&quot;  he  says.  He  is  thinking  hard.  &quot;He  said  he  pulled  some  pictures  of  you  from  the  developing  fluid,  and  there  you  were.  He  said  it  occurred  to  him  then  that  he  was  sorry  he'd  left.&quot;  &quot;Why  are  you  telling  me  this?  Wasn't  it  supposed  to  be  confidential?&quot;  &quot;I'm  not  sure  about  that,  either,&quot;  says  the  bear.  We  both  hear  the  cym-  bals  at  the  same  moment,  and  the  bear  readies  himself.  He  skates  out,  gliding  alone  onto  the  glaring  ice,  his  head  tilted  back  so  that  his  eyes  gazeup-  ward  into  the  crowd.  There  is  an  ex-  pectant  ripple  of  applause.  The  bear  bows.  He  moves  with  a  dainty,  shav-  ing  noise  across  the  ice.  Ballerinas  file  past  me  in  the  darkness,  on  the  way  back  to  their  dressing  rooms.  &quot;Damn!&quot;  one  of  them  says.  &quot;I  lost  an  earring.  Everybody  look  for  a  small  pearl  earring.&quot;  The  ice  itself  is  vast,  the  bear  is  a  solitary  misshapen  figure  gliding  in  a  circle  of  light.  He  does  his  figure  eights,  and  I  close  my  eyes,  following  his  movements  on  the  inside  of  my  mind.  I  have  seen  him  so  many  times,  and  he  always  uses  the  same  inflections,  the  same  half-humorous,  half-mocking  gestures.  I  wait  for  my  cue,  then  I  appear  at  the  entrance  to  the  ramp.  The  yellow  light  filters  through  my  hair,  it  slides  in  a  pale  aura  across  the  ice  where  I  am  to  skate,  it  falls  from  a  tiny  window  high  in  the  darkness  above  us.It  brushes  the  ice  soundlessly,  colliding  playfully  with  the  bear's  spot,  me  in  my  colored  circle,  he  in  his.  He  stares  at  me,  pretending  to  be  startled.  The  children  laugh.  He  holds  out  his  arms,  he  wags  his  head.  My  bones  will  show  through  my  skin,  this  light  is  so  brilliant.It  is  very  cold.  We  dance,  keeping  the  slight  distance  between  us,  me  skating  backward,  him  forward.  The  blades  of  our  skates  cut  small  curved  channels  in  the  mirroring  ice,  a  fine  powder  clings  to  the  white  su\xc3\xa9de  of  my  skates.  The  bear  rocks  forward;  he  catches  me  on  one  of  my  shy,  evasive  sprints,  and  we  close  and  dance  together,  woman  and  bear,  my  blond  hair  against  the  mas-  sive  darkness  of  his  chest.  His  chin  rests  lightly  on  the  crown  of  my  head  as  he  stares  past  me  into  the  crowd.  Suddenly,  astonishing  both  of  us,  I  find  myself  weeping  in  the  circle  of  his  shaggy  arms.  The  bear  tilts  his  head  and  whis-  pers,  &quot;You  know,  don't  you,  that  you  are  not  yourself?&quot; "