 b"HELP.  It's  a  big  subject,  help.  Enormous  storage  vats.  Those  were  a  help.  Useless  farmland,  sending  out  little  shoots  of  this  or  that  weed-then,  suddenly,  a  block  of  metal  storage  vats.  You  think  about  it.  That  was  a  help.  Exxon  is  helping  a  [REDACTED]  couple,  Sally  and  Smithy  Smith,  to  take  up  all  the  old  tile  from  the  forties,  to  help  expose  some  of  whatsome  believe  to  bethe  fin-  est  example  of  carved  brittlework,  from  Bohemia,  Latvia-one  of  the  sweet  countries,  deep  in  the  Baltic  or  who  knows  where.  Who  knew  what  it  was  like.  Hideous  hovels  deep  in  the  Bal-  tic.  Who  knew.  They  came  here  with  squalid  cardboard  bags,  and  the  teeth!  You  should  have  seen  them.  Madge  had  to  sit  down.  &quot;It's  too  ritzy,&quot;  she  said,  and  had  it  covered  with  tile,  using  energy  supplied  by  Exxon.  As  a  result,  at  Exxon's  giant  River  Run  Club,  Exxon  has  opened  the  doors  to  wives,  medics,  sweetie-sweet-  ies,  and  descendants  of  the  original  imhabitants,  called  &quot;Orutoos,&quot;  because  they  originally  lived  in  logs  and  gro-  tesque  tarpaper  shacks.  Shacks,  and  that's  all  they  were,  until,  using  new  Cree-o-Lite,  a  petroleum-based  caulk-  ing  compound,  we  stuffed  every  insect  hold  and  weather  gap  in  time  for  the  storm.  Mom  was  dubious,  but  even  she  had  to  admit  that  the  bright  designer  tones  enhanced  what  had  formerly  been  a  repulsive  outbuilding,  open  to  vandalism  and  waste.  Later  that  day,  we  sat  out  in  the  driveway  to  wait  for  Dad.  Close-  lipped,  he  had  got  up  before  dawn,  hand-started  the  old  truck,  and  gone  to  town  to  stand  in  line  to  procure  the  Lustre-Board  Sue-Ellen  wanted  for  her  room,  which  we  called  &quot;her&quot;  room,  in  deference  to  her  pretty  lit-  tle  pout,  although  she  shared  it  with  Sam  and  Timmy  and  Fern.  But  the  more  of  the  cheap  imitation  &quot;bargain&quot;  material  we  slathered  on  the  collaps-  ing  partition,  the  more  it  sagged  and  clumped  into  an  intractable  mass  of  gelatinous  slops.  Frantic,  we  called  a  representative  of  the  Petroleum  Be-  havior  Board-a  member  of  our  own  community,  who,  despite  the  large  authority  invested  in  him  by  his  com-  munity,  understood  our  own  needs  better  than  any  other  living  human  be-  ing.  Anxiously,  we  showed  him  the  heaped-up  pile  of  morm.  He  gave  usa  simple  chit  to  sign,  and  we  sat  down  to  a  good  breakfast.  Which  is  why  Ex-  xon  is  taking  charge  of  many  old  giv-  en-up-for-lost  river  towns  and  replac-  ing  them  with  Pasti-Bond-easily  as-  sembled,  easily  activated,  at  half  the  costof  conventional  construction.  Exxon  is  encouraging  schoolchil-  dren  not  to  throw  away  wrappers,  which  can  breed  new  &quot;super-viruses&quot;  resistant  to  every  known  antibiotic,  but,  rather,  to  establish  tidy  &quot;collection  centers,&quot;  where  trained  matrons  can  stoop  down  to  take  needed  action.  Not  that  it  did  us  one  bit  of  good.  Little  Timmy  wore  the  same  socks  day  after  day.  We  got  one  off  him,  but  he  screamed  and  screamed  over  it,  so  we  let  him  keep  the  other  one  on.  Sure  enough,  days  later,  after  the  swelling  had  moved  into  crisis,  we  found  a  sticky  wrapper  twirled  around  his  sec-  ond  toe.  We  children  were  shocked.  And  how.  Mom  had  obscured  the  pre-  cious  carving  with  cheap  cardboard  tile,  failing  to  see  that  the  durability  of  the  petroleum-based  tiles  newly  avail-  able  in  our  community  would  justify  the  greater  initial  expense.  Because  Mom  and  Dad  had  failed  to  consult  with  the  representatives  of  the  petro-  leum  industry  who  were  there  in  our  community  to  help,  little  Timmy  real-  ly  took  the  brunt  of  it.  The  huge  swelling  failed  to  respond  to  anything  -music,  old-fashioned  compresses.  Except  for  radio  favorites.  He'd  put  his  little  foot  up  and  listen  to  &quot;Grand  Central  Station,&quot;  &quot;Lux  Radio  Thea-  tre,&quot;  all  of  those.  Some  of  the  special  programming  brought  to  him  by  Ex-  xon  (or  Esso,  as  it  was  called  in  those days)  really  brought  a  much-needed  smile.  People  can  talk  all  they  want  about  the  good  old  days,  but  when  I  think  how  far  research  has  come  since  then!  In  [REDACTED],  for  example,  Exxon  protochemists  (working  in  cooperation  with  local  authorities  under  a  grant  from  the  United  Nations  Assorted  As-  sistance  Fund)  have  identified  a  new  species  no  larger  than  the  half-moon  of  your  fingernail  (which  can  become  dry,  brittle,  unless  proper  nutrition  in-  cludes  enough  protein-easily  supplied  by  gelatine!).  Which  is  why  I  get  an-  noyed  when  I  hear  irresponsible  talk  about  &quot;excess&quot;  profits  and  &quot;environ-  mental&quot;  considerations.  When  I  think  of  all  the  wonderful  benefits  of  petro-  leum-based  items  brought  to  us  by  folks  like  the  folks  at  Exxon  over  the  years  and  the  enormous  benefits  accru-  ing  to  each  and  every  single  one  of  us  because  of  the  folks  at  Exxon  and  other  folks  likethat,  constantly  ex-  ploring,  looking,  restoring,  increasing,  updating,  and  finding,  then  I  just  want  to  say  &quot;Thanks&quot;  and  &quot;God  bless  Exxon&quot;  and  tell  them  to  go  right  on  doing  every  single  thing  they  ever  want  to  do  at  all.  What's  Exxon  doing  to  help?  I'll  tell  you.  Exxon  has  smocks  you  can  slip  over  what  you  have  on  without  disturbing  what  you  have  on.  W  hat's  Exxon  doing  to  help?  I'll  tell  you.  Exxon  is  moving  quickly  up  the  path  to  put  a  present  under  your  door.  What's  Exxon  doing  to  help?  I'll  tell  you.  Exxon  is  giving  a  dinner  dance.  Even  now,  the  tables  are  being  set  up.  Round  tables,  easily  assembled.  See  how  the  legs  foldunder?  Terribly  easy  to  dismantle  and  roll  away! "