 b"LOIS  is  forty-four,  the  mother  of  two  adolescent  children,  divorced,  a  law  professor  at  N.Y.U.  On  Friday  she  is  going  to  [REDACTED]  for  six  months  to  do  research,  and  she  has  only  four  days  to  pack,  sendher  chil-  dren  off  to  camp,  find  a  reliable  ten-  ant  for  her  house,  and  say  goodbye  to  her  young  lover,  whom  she  doesn't  expect  to  take  up  with  again  when  she  comes  home.  Lois  originally  chose  this  lover  be-  cause  he  was  married  and  unsuitable;  now  she  has  fallen  in  love  with  him  and  is  angry  at  herself  and  him.  She  wants  to  be  free,  so  that  she  can  find  a  new  man  she  may  not  love  as  much,  who  will  be  her  helpmeet  for  the  rest  of  her  life.  These  are  the  words  she  is  thinking  of  using  in  saying  farewell  to  her  lover,  but  she  is  already  smiling  at  the  expression  she  imagines  she  will  see  on  his  clever,  sarcastic  face  when  she  says  &quot;helpmeet.&quot;  She  is  trying  to  think  of  a  substitute  word  as  sheab-  sently  carries  cardboard  boxes  up  to  the  second  floor.  The  lover  is  coming  over  soon  to  help  her  with  this  heavy  work.  Lois  is  always  nervous  about  having  her  friends  meet  Charles,  because,  at  the  expensive  private  school  herson  attends,  he  is  the  gym  instructor.  There  is  something  about  his  being  a  gym  instructor  that  she  dislikes  even  more  than  his  being  married  or  being  young.  Of  course,  he  is  in  very  good  shape,  and  verywell  muscled,  but  she  feels  he  is  an  underachiever.  Charles  could  have  been  a  lawyer  if  he  had  tried,  or  a  philosophy  instructor-any-  thing  that  would  make  her  feel  less  like  a  chaser  of  athletic  young  men.  Indeed,  it  was  the  sight  of  him  in  white  tennis shorts  that  first  drew  her  attention-  also  his  antic  humor.  She  remembers  how  he  approached  her  while  she  was  walking  her  dog  on  Thirteenth  Street  and  said  soberly,  &quot;Mrs.  Richman,  may  I  stroll  with  you  in  the  gutters  of  Gotham?&quot;  Charles  has  offered  to  board  her  dog  while  she  is  in  [REDACTED].  It  would  be  unfair  to  the  dog  to  kennel  her  solely  to  avoid  seeing  Charles  again  when  she  returns.  She  hasn't  made  up  her  mind  yet.  Perhaps  she  will  get  rid  of  the  dog,  too,  while  she  is  in  a  purifying  state  of  mind.  'The  two  children  she  cannot  get  rid  of,  though  the  thought  has  crossed  her  mind  once  or  twice.  Lois's  daughter  is  sixteen  and  will  be  going  to  Vassar  in  the  fall.  She  will  visit  her  father  at  Christmastime.  Her  son  is  only  twelve  and  will  go  to  school  for  one  term  in  [REDACTED].  A  chess  player  and  model-constructor,  he  may  not  even  notice  that  he  is  in  [REDACTED].  He  has  been  in  a  dream  world  ever  since  his  father  moved  to  [REDACTED]  a  year  ago.  He  hasn't  even  thought  it  odd  that  Charles  drops  by  so  frequent-  ly.  Perhaps  she  should  just  give  the  dog  to  Charles.  Lois  bought  Geral-  dine  for  comfort  in  the  early  days  of  her  divorce,  so  it  would  be  a  double  betrayal  to  palm  them  off  on  each  other.  What  she  really  wants  is  for  Charles  to  leave  his  wife  and  come  and  live  with  her,  marry  her,  but  she  doesn't  know  it  yet.  She  prefers  to  divest  her-  self  of  everything  rather  than  entertain  the  idea.  Charles  is  twenty-eight  years  old.  Many  times  she  has  gone  over  in  her  head  the  following  figure  combina-  tions:  44-28,  54-38,  64-48,  74-58,  just  as  when  she  was  longing  to  get  pregnant  she  kept  imagining  May-  January,  June-February,  July-March.  \xe2\x80\x98N  7  HILE  Lois  is  at  the  very  back  of  a  walk-in  closet,  sorting  out  her  son's  clothes  in  piles  for  camp,  for  Lon-  don,  for  storage,  she  hears  the  doorbell  ring.  At  the  door  she  finds  avery  well-  dressed  woman,  about  twenty-eight,  in  extremely  good  repair,  with  a  deep,  even  tan.  She  is  wearing  a  pair  of  buff  silk  overalls  Her  hair,  bouncing  in  glossy,  blond-tipped  curls  around  her  face,  has  recently  been  blow-dried  by  a  master  hand.  &quot;The  rental  agent  sent  me  over.  I'm  Marabel  Bush.&quot;  She  has  a  strong  Southern  accent.  &quot;Hello,&quot;  says  Lois  in  a  noncommit-  tal  way.  &quot;Are  you  a  family,  or  part  of  a  group?&quot;  &quot;We're  a  couple.  My  husband's  " b"firm  sent  him  to  New  York,  and  I  just  hated  to  stay  home  all  by  myself.&quot;  &quot;Why  do  you  need  a  three-story  house,  if  I  may  ask?&quot;  &quot;Well,  we  do  heaps  of  entertaining,  and  my  grandmother  and  my  hus-  band's  daddy  will  be  visiting.&quot;  Lois  doesn't  absolutely  need  the  rental  money  for  the  house.  She  has  been  so  fussy  about  prospective  tenants  that  the  agent  has  given  up  tagging  along.  &quot;Well,  come  in  and  take  a  look,&quot;  she  says  dubiously.  As  Lois  follows  Mrs.  Bush  up  the  narrow  stairs  of  the  brownstone,  she  grows  conscious  of  her  own  dowdy  ap-  pearance.  She's  wearing  jeans  and  a  saggy  velours  poncho  that  she  used  long  ago  as  a  beach  dress.  Her  long,  unwashed  brown  hair  hangs  down,  while  her  gray  hairs  reach  for  the  sky.  She  has  previously  decided  to  look  as  terrible  as  possible  when  she  tells  Charles  that  she  is  quitting  their  affair.  Now,  staring  at  trim  Mrs.  Bush  in  her  trim  silk  overalls,  she  thinks  she  may  have  gone  too  far  in  dishevelment.  Mrs.  Bush  is  by  no  means  gushing  about  the  layout  and  d\xc3\xa9cor  of  Lois's  brownstone.  Admittedly,  the  rooms  are  quite  small,  the  furniture  on  the  plain  side.  Lois  bought  the  house  with  a  leg-  acy  her  father  left  her,  over  the  pro-  tests  of  her  former  husband.  Now  it  has  doubled  in  value,  giving  Lois  much  satisfaction.  She  pats  the  mahogany  bannister  lovingly  as  they  ascend  to  the  bedroom  floor.  The  doors  to  the  chil-  dren's  rooms  are  closed,  and  she  opens  them  just  half  a  crack.  &quot;We  haven't  cleaned  these  smaller  bedrooms  yet,  but  we're  planning  to  tomorrow.&quot;  &quot;We'll  take  it,&quot;  says  Mrs.  Bush  un-  expectedly,  without  any  preamble.  &quot;It's  so  old-fashioned.  Granny  will  love  it.\xe2\x80\x9d  Lois  is  not  eager  to  rent  to  Marabel  Bush.  Lois  is  envious  of  Marabel's  looks  and  manicure,  and  thinks  she  will  have  wild  parties  despite  Granny's  restrain-  ing  influence,  but  Lois  has  forgotten  to  put  in  any  of  the  escape  hatches  she  de-  vised  when  showing  the  house  to  other  people.  &quot;Oil  bills  and  electricity  are  all  ex-  tra,  of  course,&quot;  she  says,  &quot;and  you  must  pay  the  man  who  mows  and  weeds  the  garden.&quot;  &quot;Certainly,&quot;  says  Mrs.  Bush  in  vel-  vety  tones.  &quot;We'll  need  two  months'  security  as  well.&quot;  Mrs.  Bush  opens  her  mail-pouch  handbag  and  removes  her  texturized  checkbook  with  its  retractable  silver-  plated  pen.  &quot;No  noisy  parties,&quot;  Lois  continues.  &quot;I  must  stay  on  good  terms  with  my  neighbors.  They've  been  kind  to  me.  Also,  I'll  be  in  [REDACTED],  and  I  won't  be  able  to  help  you  if  any  emergencies  arise.  But  I'll  leave  a  list  of  plumbers,  electricians,  and  such,  because  things  do  break  down  in  an  old  house.&quot;  Just  then  the  doorbell  rings,  and  Charles  comes  bounding  up  the  steps.  Even  in  his  housecleaning  rags  he  looks  radiant.  Lately  he's  been  eating  no  meat  and  running  an  hour  a  day  before  breakfast,  and  this  has  given  him  a  pared-down  look  of  pure  energy.  He  hasa  long  Scandinavian  head,  blond  hair  cut  too  short,  green  eyes,  a  glossy  brown  mustache.  (If  only  he  didn't  make  such  monkey  faces,  twist,  ing  up  his  mouth  in  mock  disdain  or  boredom.)  At  sight  of  this  robust,  wonderful-looking  man,  some  devil  takes  hold  of  Lois,  who  is  normally  so  circumspect.  &quot;Mrs.  Bush,  I'd  like  you  to  meet  my  husband,  Charles.  Charles,  our  new  tenant,  Mrs.  Bush.&quot;  Charles'  eyes  bulge  in  surprise,  but  he  quickly  bolts  his  face  down  in  a  ca-  sual  smile.  &quot;Charles  was  only  fourteen  when  we  married,&quot;  Lois  continues.  &quot;Our  son  is  twelve.&quot;  Mrs.  Bush  stares  in  amazement.  Af-  ter  a  moment  or  two  of  inertia,  she  puts  her  checkbook  back  in  her  purse  without  writing  a  check,  then  quickly  " b"makes  off,  back  to  the  rental  agent  to  look  at  the  terms  of  the  lease.  Kt  HAT  were  you  doing  there,  Lo?&quot;  Charles  asks  when  Lois  reappears  from  downstairs.  &quot;What  was  that  for?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  Charles...&quot;  Lois  rakes  her  fingers  through  her  hair.  &quot;I  don't  know  what  I'm  doing.  I  feel  so  harried.&quot;  As  soon  as  Lois  says  this,  she  really  feels  harried  forthe  first  time.  &quot;I  didn't  like  that  dame.  She'll  be  sleeping  in  my  bed,  and  I  wanted  to  shakeher  up')\xe2\x80\x99  &quot;Cute  number.&quot;  Charles  makes  his  sex-fiend  face  by  rolling  his  eyes  and  smacking  his  lips.  &quot;But  no  bosom.&quot;  Lois  would  normally  be  flattered  by  this  remark,  would  bask  in  it,  but  to-  day  she  is  irritated.  She  imagines  Charles  in  herbed  making  love  to  Mrs.  Bush.  &quot;Also,  she  looks  as  though  she  spends  her  entire  day  in  front  of  the  mirror  getting  dressed,&quot;  Charles  says.  &quot;Stop,&quot;  replies  Lois  shrilly.  &quot;You  know  she  looks  great!&quot;  Her  soon-to-be-abandoned  lover  could  not  be  behaving  more  nicely,  but  Lois  is  growing  more  angry.  It  would  have  comforted  her  to  know  that  Charles'  wife,  a  twenty-five-year-old  receptionist,  spends  long  hours  every  day  gettingdressed  in  front  of  the  mir-  ror,  that  Charles'  wife  has  a  bosom  like  an  ironing  board,  a  disposition  like  an  ironing  board.  They  have  never  dis-  cussed  Charles'  marital  situation.  He  has  never  stayed  all  night.  He  usually  says,  &quot;Back  to  Wuthering  Heights,&quot;  or,  &quot;It's  been  a  pleasure  visiting  you,  Miss  Scarlett,&quot;  before  he  climbs  into  his  burnt-sienna  underwear  and  tip-  toes  away.  Charles  can  never  be  play-  ful  in  this  particular  way  with  his  wife,  Barbara,  but  Lois  doesn't  know  that.  The  two  of  them  begin  stacking  car-  tons  for  storage,  but  before  long  the  rental  agent  telephones.  Mrs.  Bush  has  changed  her  mind;  she  prefers  West-  chester  after  all.  At  this  news  Charles  begins  to  smile.  While  Lois  is  saying,  &quot;Oh,  well,  so  we  won't  have  a  tenant;  it  doesn't  really  matter,&quot;  he  is  grinning  cheerfully.  &quot;You  know,  Lois,  I  was  going  to  suggest  that  if  you  didn't  find  anyone,  we  could  live  in  the  house  for  you.&quot;  &quot;Are  you  joking?&quot;  &quot;Well,  you  know  I  can't  pay  your  kind  of  rent.  But  I  could  take  care  of  your  garden  and  babysit  Geraldine.  She'd  be  happier  here  than  in  a  three-  room  apartment,  and  so  would  I.&quot;  &quot;You  and  Geraldine  and  Berbera?&quot;  &quot;Is  that  so  outlandish?&quot; Lois  is  so  furious  at  this  hateful  sug-  gestion  that  her  whole  body  trembles.  &quot;Yes,  it  is!  Most  outlandish!  You  crass-ballplayer!&quot;  Charles  could  willingly  clobber  Lois,  but  he  exercises  self-control.  His  strong  legs  propel  him  around  the  room  sev-  eral  times  in  great  agitation.  &quot;Lois,  I'm  sorry  I  suggested  it,  since  it's  made  you  unhappy,&quot;  he  says  final-  ly.  &quot;If  I  could  unsay  it,  I  would,  if  you  would  unsay  the  'ballplayer'  bit.  That  was  really  low.&quot;  &quot;It's  quite  an  appropriate  epithet,&quot;  Lois  replies  in  her  loftiest,  most  cutting  tones.  &quot;Am  Ia  pinch-hitter  or  not?&quot;  Charles  stops  and  stares  at  Lois  in  astonishment.  Charles  indeed  loves  Lois,  but  as  an  earth  mother  who  will  take  care  of  his  needs  without  ask-  ing  anything  for  herself.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  that  is  precisely  how  Lois  has  always  behaved.  Until  this  moment,  she  has  enjoyed  being  an  earth  mother.  &quot;I  wish  I  knew  why  you  feel  so  offended,&quot;  Charles  says.  &quot;Oh,  just  get  the  hell  out!  Go  be  ironic  someplace  else.&quot;  &quot;Well,  call  me.  When  you  want  me  to  take  Geraldine,  just  give  me  a  call.&quot;  Throughout  the  tumult  preceding  her  divorce,  Lois  never  once  acted  bad-  ly.  She  never  gave  her  husband  the  satisfaction  of  a  single  unjustified  in-  sult-not  even  when  he  moved  out,  leaving  her  to  tell  the  bad  news  to  the  children.  Her  anger  took  the  form  of  drinking  too  much  and  throwing  away  his  mail.  Now  she  screams,  &quot;Get  the  hell  out!&quot;  and  aims  a  child's  sneaker  at  Charles.  It  hits  him  in  the  shoulder.  Charles  leaves  the  room  with  exag-  gerated  slowness.  He  is  too  hurt  to  think  of  a  clever  exit  line.  Lois  flings  herself  down  on  a  pile  of  winter  clothes.  &quot;Don't  go,  Charles,&quot;  she  says  in  a  tiny  voice  as  soon  as  she  hears  the  downstairs  door  slam.  She  begins  to  cry  in  the  shattering  way  she  used  to  when  she  was  twelve.  She  forgets  that  she  planned  to  aban-  don  Charles,  that  she  has  abandoned  him.  He  will  never  seem  more  desira-  ble  thanhe  does  now,  when  she  knows  she  will  not  see  him  again. "