 b"WHEN  Foster  helped  his  ex-  wife  clean  out  the  attic  of  the  house  where  they  had  once  lived  and  which  she  was  now  selling,  they  came  across  dozens  of  forgotten,  broken  games.  Parcheesi,  Monopoly,  Lotto;  games  aping  the  strategies,  of  the  stock  market,  of  crime  detection,  of  real-estate  speculation,  of  internation-  al  diplomacy  and  war;  games  with  spinners,  dice,  lettered  tiles,  cardboard  spacemen,  and  plastic  battleships;  games  bought  in  five-and-tens  and  department  stores  feverish  and  musical  with  Christmas  expectations;  games  enjoyed  on  the  afternoon  of  a  birthday  and  for  a  few  afternoons  thereafter  and  then  allowed,  shy  of  one  or  two  pieces,  to  drift  into  closets  and  toward  the  attic.  Yet,  discovered  in  their  bright  flat  boxes  between  trunks  of  outgrown  clothes  and  defunct  ap-  pliances,  the  games  presented  a  force-  ful  semblance  of  value:  the  springs  of  their  miniature  launchers  still  reacted,  the  logic  of  their  instructions  would  still  generate  suspense,  given  a  chance. &quot;What  shall  we  do  with  all  these  games?&quot;  Foster  shouted,  in  a  kind  of  agony,  to  his  scattered  family  as  they  moved  up  and  down  the  attic  stairs.  &quot;Trash  'em,&quot;  his  younger  son,  a  strapping  nineteen,  urged.  &quot;Would  the  Goodwill  want  them?&quot;  asked  his  ex-wife,  still  wife  enough  to  think  that  all  of  his  questions  deserved  answers.  &quot;You  used  to  be  able  to  give  things  like  that  to  orphanages.  But  they  don't  call  them  orphanages  any-  more,  do  they?&quot;  &quot;They  call  them  normal  American  homes,&quot;  Foster  said.  His  older  son,  now  twenty-two,  with  a  cinnamon-colored  beard,  of-  fered,  &quot;They  wouldn't  work  anyhow;  they  all  have  something  missing.  That's  how  they  got  to  the  attic.&quot;  &quot;Well,  why  didn't  we  throw  them  der  at  the  sad  wealth  of  abandoned  playthings,  silently  groping  with  him  for  the  particular  happy  day  connected  to  this  and  that  pattern  of  coded  squares  and  colored  arrows.  Their  lives  had  touched  these  tokens  and  counters  once;  excitement  had  flowed  along  the  paths  ofthese  stylized  landscapes.  But  the  day  was  gone,  and  scarcely  a  memory  remained.  &quot;Toss  'em,&quot;  the  younger  decreed,  in  his  manly  voice.  For  these  days  of  cleaning  out,  the  boy  had  borrowed  a  pickup  truck  from  a  friend  and  parked  it  on  the  lawn  beneath  the  attic  win-  dow,  so  the  smaller  items  of  discard  could  be  tossed  directly  into  it.  The  bigger  items  were  lugged  down  the  stairs  and  through  the  front  hall  and  out;  already  the  truck  was  loaded  with  old  mattresses,  broken  clock-radios,  obsolete  skis  and  boots.  It  was  a  game  of  sorts  to  hit  the  truck  bed  with  ob-  away  at  the  time?&quot;  Foster  asked,  and  jects  dropped  from  the  height  of  the  had  to  answer  himself.  Cowardice,  the  answer  was.  Inertia.  Clinging  to  the  past.  His  sons,  with  a  shadow  of  old  obe-  dience,  came  and  looked  over  his  shoul-   Foster  flipped  game  after  game  at  the  target  two  stories  below.  When  the  boxes  hit,  they  exploded,  throw-  ing  a  spray  of  dice,  tokens,  counters,  and  cards  into  the  air  and  across  the  lawn.  A  box  called  Mousetrap,  its  lid  showing  laughing  children  gathered  around  a  Rube  Goldberg  device,  drift,  ed  sideways,  struck  one  side  wall  of  the  truck,  and  spilled  its  plastic  compo-  nents  into  a  flower  bed.  As  a  set  of  something  called  Drag  Race!  floated  gently  as  a  snowflake  before  coming  to  rest,  much  diminished,  on  a  stained  mattress,  Foster  saw  in  the  depth  of  downward  space  the  cause  of  his  melancholy:  he  had  not  played  enough  with  these  games.  Now  no  one  wanted  to  play.  AD  he  and  his  wife  avoided  di-  vorce,  of  course,  these  boxes  would  have  continued  to  gather  dust  in  an  undisturbed  attic,  their  sorrow  unexposed.  The  toys  of  his  own  child-  hood  still  rested  in  his  mother's  attic.  At  his  last  visit,  he  had  wound  the  spring  of  a  tin  Donald  Duck  that  had  responded  with  an  angry  clack  of  its  bill  and  a  few  stiff  strokes  on  its  drum.  A  tin  shield  with  concentric  grooves  for  marbles  still  waited  in  a  bushel  basket  with  his  alphabet  blocks  and  lead  airplanes-waited  for  his  child-  hood  to  return.  His  ex-wife  paused  where  he  squat-  ted  at  the  attic  window  and  asked  him,  &quot;What's  the  matter?&quot;  &quot;Nothing.  These  games  weren't  used  much.&quot;  " b"     &quot;I  know.  It  happens  fast.  You  bet-  ter  stop  now;  it's  making  you  too  sad.&quot;  Behind  him,  his  family  had  cleaned  out  the  attic;  the  slant-ceilinged  rooms  stood  empty,  with  drooping  insulation.  &quot;How  can  you  bear  it?&quot;&quot;  he  asked  her,  of  the  emptiness.  &quot;Oh,  it's  fun,  once  you  get  into  it.  Off  with  the  old,  on  with  the  new.  The  new  people  seem  nice.  They  have  little  children.&quot;  He  looked  at  her  and  wondered  if  she  was  being  brave  or  truly  hard-  hearted.  The  attic  trembled  slightly.  &quot;That's  Ted,&quot;  she  said.  Shehad  acquired  a  boyfriend,  a  big  athletic  banker  fleeing  from  domestic  embarrassments  in  a  neighboring  town.  When  Ted  slammed  the  kitchen  door  two  stories  below,  the  glass  shade  ofa  kerosene  lamp  that,  though  long  un-  used,  Foster  hadn't  had  the  heart  to  throw  out  of  the  window  vibrated  in  its  copper  clips,  emitting  a  thin  note  like  a  trapped  wasp's  song.  Time  to  go.  Foster's  dusty  knees  creaked  when  he  stood.  His  ex-wife's  eager  steps  raced  ahead  of  him  down  through  the  emptied  house.  He  followed,  carrying  the  lamp,  and  set  it  finally  on  the  bare  top  of  a  bookcase  he  had  once  built,  on  the  first-floor  landing.  He  remembered  screwing  the  top  board,  a  prize  piece  of  knot-free  pine,  into  place  from  under-  neath,  so  not  a  nailhead  marred  its  smoothness.  After  all  the  vacant  rooms  and  halls,  the  kitchen  seemed  indecently  full  of  heat  and  life.  &quot;Dad,  want  a  beer?&quot;  the  red-bearded  son  asked.  &quot;Ted  brought  some.&quot;  The  back  of  the  boy's  hand,  holding  forththe  dewy  can,  blazed  with  fine  ginger  hairs.  His  girlfriend,  wearing  gypsy  earrings  and  a  &quot;No  Nukes&quot;  sweatshirt,  leaned  against  the  disconnected  stove,  her  hair  in  a  ban-  danna  and  ablack  smirch  becomingly  placed  on  one  temple.  From  the  kind  way  she  smiled  at  Foster,  he  felt  this  party  wasmaking  room  for  him.  &quot;No,  I  better  go.&quot;  Ted  shook  Foster's  hand,  as  he  al-  ways  did.  He  had  a  thin  pink  skin  and  silver  hair  whose  fluffy  waves  seemed  mechanically  induced.  Foster  could  look  him  in  the  eye  no  longer  than  he could  gaze  at  the  sun.  He  wondered  how  such  a  radiant  brute  had  got  into  such  a  tame  line  of  work.  Ted  had  not  helped  with  the  attic  today  because  he  had  been  off  inhis  old  town,  visiting  his  teen-age  twins.  &quot;I  hear  you  did  a  splendid  job  today,&quot;  he  announced.  &quot;They  did,&quot;  Foster  said.  &quot;I  wasn't  much  use.  I  just  sat  there  stunned.  All  those  things  I  had  forgotten  buying.&quot;  &quot;Some  were  presents,&quot;  his  son  re-  minded  him.  He  passed  the  can  his  father  had  snubbed  to  his  mother,  who  took  it  and  tore  up  the  tab  with  that  defiant-sounding  pssff.  She  had  never  liked  beer,  yet  tipped  the  can  to  her  mouth.  &quot;Give  me  one  sip,&quot;  Foster  begged,  and  took  the  can  from  her  and  drank  a  long  swallow.  When  he  opened  his  eyes,  Ted's  big  hand  was  cupped  un-  der  Mrs.  Foster's  chin  while  his  thumb  rubbed  away  a  smudge  of  dirt  along  her  jaw  which  Foster  had  not  noticed.  This  protective  gesture  made  her  face  look  small,  pouty,  frail,  and  somehow  parched.  Ted,  Foster  noticed  now,  was  dressed  with  acertain  comical  perfec-  " b" tion  in  a  banker's  Saturday  outft-  softened  bluejeans,  crisp  tennis  sneak-  ers,  lumberjack  shirt  with  cuffs  folded  back.  The  youthful  outfit  accented  his  age,  his  hypertensive  flush.  Foster  saw  them  suddenly  as  a  touching,  aging  couple,  and  this  perception  seemed  per-  mission  to  go.  He  handed  back  the  can.  &quot;T  hanks  for  your  help,&quot;  his  former  wife  said.  'Yes,  we  do  thank  you,&quot;  Ted  said.  'T  alk  to  Tommy,&quot;  she  unexpected-  ly  added.  She  was  still  sending  out  trip  wires  to  slow  his  departures.  &quot;This  is  harder  on  him  than  he  shows.&quot;  Ted  looked  at  his  watch,  a  fat,  black-faced  thing  he  could  swim  un-  derwater  with.  &quot;I  said  to  him  com-  ing  in,  'Don't  dawdle  till  the  dump  closes.&quot;  &quot;  &quot;He  loafed  all  day,&quot;  his  brother  complained,  &quot;mooning  over  old  stuff,  and  now  he's  going  to  screw  up  getting  to  the  dump.&quot;  &quot;He's  very  sensi-tive,&quot;  the  visiting  gypsy  said,  with  astrange  chiming  brightness,  as  if  repeating  something  she  had  heard.  O  UTSIDE,  the  boy  was  picking  up  litter  that  had  fallen  wide  of  the  truck.  Foster  helped  him.  In  the  grass  there  were  dozens  of  tokens  and  dice.  Some  were  engraved  with  curious  little  faces-Olive  Oyl,  Snuffy  Smith,  Dagwood  -and  others  with  hiero-  glyphs-numbers,  diamonds,  spades,  hexagons-whose  code  was  lost.  He  held  out  a  handful  for  Tommy  to  see.  &quot;Can  you  remember  what  these  were  for?&quot;  &quot;Comic-Strip  Lotto,&quot;  the  boy  said  without  hesitation.  &quot;And  a  game  called  Gambling  Fools  there  was  a  kind  of  slot  machine  for.&quot;  The  light  of  old  chances  and  payoffs  flickered  in  his  eyes  as  he  gazed  down  at  the  rubble  in  his  father's  hand.  Though  Foster  was  taller,  the  boy  was  broader  in  the  shoulders,  and  growing.  &quot;W  ant  to  ride  with  me  to  the  dump?&quot;  Tommy  asked.  &quot;I  would,  but  I  better  go.&quot;  He,  too,  had  a  new  life  to  lead.  By  being  on  this  forsaken  property  at  all,  Foster  was  in  a  sense  on  the  wrong  square,  if  not  ex  prise.  Once,  he  had  begun  to  teach  this  boy  chess,  but  in  the  sadness  of  watch,  ing  him  lose-the  little  bowed  head  frowning  above  his  trapped  king-the  lessons  had  stopped.  Foster  tossed  the  tokens  into  the  truck;  they  rattledto  rest  on  the  metal.  'This  depress  you?&quot;&quot;  he  asked  his  son.  &quot;Naa.&quot;  The  boy  amended,  &quot;Kind  of.&quot;  &quot;You'll  feel  great,&quot;  Foster  promised  him,  &quot;coming  back  with  a  clean  truck.  I  used  to  love  it  at  the  dump,  all  that  old  happiness  heaped  up,  and  the  sea-  gulls.&quot;  &quot;It's  changed  since  you  left.  They  have  all  these  new  rules.  The  lady  there  yelled  at  me  last  time,  for  putting  stuff  in  the  wrong  place.&quot;  &quot;She  did?&quot;  &quot;Yeah.  It  was  scary.&quot;  Seeing  his  fa-  ther  waver,  he  added,  &quot;It'll  only  take  twenty  minutes.&quot;  Though  broad  of  build,  Tommy  had  beardless  cheeks  and,  between  thickening  eyebrows,  a  trace  of  that  rounded,  faintly  baffled  blankness  babies  have,  that  wrinkles  be-  fore  they  cry.  &quot;O.K.,&quot;  Foster  said,  greatly  light-  ened.  &quot;I'll  protect  you.&quot; "