 b"MATTHEW  ARNOLD  was  not  what  he  seemed.  In  the  eve-  nings  after  dinner  he  went  down  in  the  cellar  to  his  workshop.  And  there  he  hammered  and  sawed,  hammered  and  sawed,  well  into  the  early  morning.  He  made  all  kinds  of  things-once  he  made  a  hammock  for  his  wife,  once  a  toy  cabinet  for  his  kids.  &quot;I  want  you  to  be  happy,&quot;  he  would  tell  them.  But  the  life  of  this  determined  little  family  was  darkened  by  a  certain  event  which  took  place  toward  the  close  of  their  first  year  at  Bursley.  Helping  Patty  and  Brian  onto  a  school  bus,  the  Arnolds  were  met  by  a  blast  of  rude  catcalls.  We  had  just  gotten  onto  the  bus.Ida,  my  wife,  had  our  youngest,  Patty,  by  the  hand;  Brian  was  in  front  of  me.  Suddenly  it  seemed  all  Hell  had  broken  loose.  They  ...  threw  all  kinds  of  fruit  and  other  d\xc3\xa9bris  in  our  faces,  and  called  out  the  most  horrible  names-*&quot;You  dumbbell!&quot;  and  the  like.  Some  of  them  even  left  their  seats  along  the  sides  of  the  bus  and  rushed  down  the  aisles.  I  seem  to  remember  one  small  girl,  prancing  immodestly.  We...  got  down  out  of  the  bus.  -Matthew  Arnold,  &quot;Early  Years.&quot;  Frightened  and  dismayedby  the  ap-  parently  gratuitous  hostility,  the  Ar-  nold  couple  thought  long  and  hard  about  their  future,  and  the  future  of  all  poets,  in  a  barbarous  world.  Arnold  offered  to  give  up  poetry  for  good.  &quot;I  may  be  able  to  get  work  teaching,&quot;  he  reasoned,  &quot;or  in  industry.&quot;  But  his  wife,  Ida,  hated  to  see  him  take  such  a  step,  for  she  knew  that  poetry  was  both  his  &quot;father  and  my  child&quot;  (&quot;Early  Years&quot;).  Then,  life  settled  down.  Ida  joined  the  Parents'  Council,  and,  to  the  Arnolds'  great  delight,  Brian  became  the  co-editor  of  a  literary  magazine  at  school,  called  Icarus.  Some  friends  ar-  ranged  for  their  removal  to  a  larger  house,  this  time  on  the  banks  of  the  Trent,  and  yet  still  close  enough  that  the  children  did  not  have  to  change  schools.  Arnold's  work  from  this  period  is  characterized  by  a  brooding  calm,  as  if  he  feared  to  trust  the  present,  in  ap-  pearance  so  sunny-as  if  some  danger  lay  around  the  next  corner  for  his  family.  Poems  from  this  time  include  &quot;The  Rape  of  the  Nereid&quot;  and  the  haunting  &quot;El  Paso  Afternoon.&quot;  Less  than  ten  months  after  the  school-bus  incident-that  is,  in  April  of  1914-Ida  was  knocked  over  in  the  street.  A  beggar  boy  ran  into  the  dry-  goods  store  to  alert  Matthew  Arnold,  but  by  the  timehe  had  hurried  to  Ida's  side,  she  had  already  been  put  to  rights  by  the  vegetable  man.  Arnold  de-  scribed,  in  a  letter  to  Babs  Cunning,  ham,  his  impressions  of  those  terrible  moments,  and  their  surprising  sequel.  [I]  was  waiting  for  my  change  when  I  heard  the  shouts.  I  glanced  out  carelessly,  never  dreaming-1I  was  in  fact  turning  over  some  poetic  questions  in  my  mind  (you  used  to  say  even  my  red  ears  were  poetic)  when  I  had  a  glimpse  of  her  pale  hair.  Mercifully,  all  that  remains  for  me  of  those  few  moments  is  a  nightmarish  blur,  until  I  had  her  seated  on  some  straw,  her  back  against  a  vegetable  cart.  Babs,  you  know  Ida-if  you  could  have  seen  how  her  head  rolled  from  side  to  side.  A  terribly  officious  little  man,  a  stranger  (who  had  actually  probably  saved  Ida's  life,  though  I  didn't  know  that  then),  was  bobbing  around  us,  keeping  back  the  crowd,  patting  Ida's  hand  (happily  she  was  not  conscious  of  this).  Babs,  I  am  so  tired.  I'm  afraid  I  shall  have  to  call  it  quits,  for  today  at  least.  Keep  the  letters  coming,  you  know  how  they  cheer  us  up.  Meantime,  come  and  see  us.  [REDACTED]  The  outcome  of  the  strange  meeting  here  described,  the  identity  of  Arnold's  &quot;officious  little  man&quot;  are  stories  too  well  known  to  be  gone  into  here.  As  Ida  herself  put  it,  &quot;From  that  day  on,  Eddie  was  like  a  guardian  angel,  or  like  the  old  father  we  had  wanted,  and  never  had&quot;  (&quot;My  Life  in  Art&quot;).  THEN,  war.  Though  in  no  direct  danger  themselves,  yet  the  Mat-  thew  Arnolds  had  many  friends  and  loved  ones  at  the  front-among  these,  some  of  Arnold's  colleagues  from  his  journalist  days,  old  nursing  friends  of  Ida's,  and,  what  is  little  known,  that  branch  of  the  family  which  had  clung  to  a  farming  tradition  in  the  Polish  Corridor.  From  March  to  December  of  that  year-that  is,  the  weeks  prior  to  the  Armory  Show-was  a  most  try-  ing  time  for  the  poet  and  his  family.  Reports  came  in  from  everywhere-  famine  in  the  [REDACTED],  fascism  cropping  up  in  the  Jura  like  an  ugly  spotted  mushroom,  and,  of  course,  the  loss  of  a  cherished  next-door  neighbor,  who had  sailed  hopefully  on  the  Titanic.  The  poet  finally  expressed  some  of  these  feelings  in  a  letter  dated  August  Ist:  &quot;We  can  do  nothing  now  but  wait,  Charlene.  The  time  of  quick  solutions  or  that  devil-may-care  atti-  tude  is  over.&quot;  It  was  at  about  this  time  that  Mat-  thew  Arnold's  humanitarian  essay  on  the  Boche  first  appeared,  demonstrat-  ing  once  and  for  all  his  mastery  of  the  journalist's  craft.  Our  &quot;Enemy,&quot;  THE  BOCHE  Picture  this  scene.  It  is  1900,  the  Tyrol.  High  peaks  brood  over  the  flimsy  human  towns  that  nestle  trustingly  on  the  rude  rock.  Here  and  there  on  the  green  mead-  ows,  flocks  of  sheep  roam  like  clouds.  The  dwellers  are  not  a  coddled  people;  scathing  winters,  high  altitudes,  and  rockslides  have  given  them  a  primitive  but  dignified  reli-  gious  awe.  For  these  are  a  mountain  people,  adapted  by  time  and  necessity  to  the  rigors  of  thin  air  and  the  isolation.  These  moun-  tains  are  their  home.But  their  allegiance  is  to  [REDACTED],  too-perhaps  some  of  them  have  a  cousin  Klaus  or  an  Annemarie  out  on  the  plains  or  in  the  forests!  These  are  not  a  people  to  abandon  the  nation,  just  because  the  going  gets  a  little  rough.  From  just  such  settings  as  this  comes  the  blond,  dreaded  German  soldier.  He  is  no  beast!  And  then,  too,  are  we  to  judge  this  boy  because  his  language  sounds  to  us  like  a  harsh  barking?  I  don't  think  so.  He  wants  to  win,  or-let's  admit  it-he  wants  to  beat  us.  But,  we  would  like  to  beat  him,  too.  So  let's  not  stir  up  trouble,  please,  by  breathing  hateful  tales  about  him,  by  throwing  out  our  amusing  trick  bottle  corks  carved  in  the  Black  Forest.  Remember  that  after  the  War  we  may  want  to  visit  [REDACTED].  We  might  like  to  show  our  children  Weimar,  where  Goethe  lived.  It  would  bea  pity  if  we  closed  these  doors  forever,  just  because  of  wartime  in-  solence.  ...  Britons!  Come!  Let  us  see  the  German  as  he  is-a  blond,  sincere  youth,  who  de-  serves,  if  not  our  good  will,  then  at  least  Understanding,  of  which-look  into  your  hearts-the  Modern  World  cannot  get  too  much!-  Tatler,  September.  There  was  little  relief  in  the  months  to  come  for  this  weary  family.  Patty,  who  was  seven  years  old  at  this  time,  caught  the  lazy  eye  and  had  to  be  put  in  the  hospital.  Ida  went  to  see  her  every  day-a  distance  of  four  miles,  which,  however,  involved  three  sepa-  rate  tram  lines.  Arnold  was  a  regular  contributor  to  the  New  World  Spectator  during  this  period,  just  as  Klimsky,  Kroons,  and  [REDACTED]  were  making  their  d\xc3\xa9buts  in  its  pages.  Arnold  did  not  mix  with  them.  They  seem  to  me  to  be  a  group  of  mad  young  men-neither  Classic  nor  Roman-  " b"tic-who,  like  the  flock  of  sheep  in  the  fable,  rush  on  the  barnyard  and  overturn  even  the  crib  which  contains  their  own  food.  As  young  men,  they  are  sincere,  they  believe  they  are  honest,  and  yet  one  trem-  bles;  for  theyseek  totear  down,  and  not  to  build  up  afterwards.  For  this  and  other  reasons,  Arnold  did  not  go  to  the  office,  but  worked  beside  his  own  hearth,  sending  in  his  criti-  cal  articles  by  parcel  post  under  the  code  name  Mr.  Valera  Parnell,  which  was  perhaps  the  greatest  mistake  of  his  life.  Some  commentators  have  remarked  that  Mr.  Arnold  never  was  able  to  explain  his  motives  in  this.  They  pooh-pooh  the  &quot;I.R.A.  Considera-  tion&quot;  theory-namely,  that  Arnold  aimed  to  mystify  the  British  authori-  ties  and  attract  an  investigation  by  the  Postal  Service,  which  could  only  prove  a  waste  of  time  for  them,  and  might  &quot;take  the  heat  off&quot;  the  actual  Irish.  Others  think  it  may  have  been  a  joke  between  Arnold  and  his  editor,  a  rabid  Ulsterist.  The  psychoanalytic  critics  have,  of  course,  their  own  peevish  opinions.  In  our  view,  it  is  not  the  biographer's  position  to  speak  where  his  subject  is  silent.  IT  is  1922.  At  last,  for  the  weary  poet,  a  vacation  to  Bermuda  to  cel-  ebrate  the  peace  and,  perhaps,  the  passing  of  that  most  dangerous  year  in  the  life  of  any  poet,  the  thirty-second.  Ida  had  hoped  that  they  just  might  get  away  alone.  But  war-torn  [REDACTED]  was  no  place  to  leave  two  little  children,  and  so  it  was  decided  that  she  should  stay  behind.  The  sea,  deep  home  of  many  souls  Yet  youremain  ever  the  same  withal  With  the  modest  &quot;pudeur&quot;  of  a  girl  ...  These  lines,  written  in  a  hotel  the  night  before  his  departure,  evoke  the  excitement  of  a  spirit,  essentially  law-  less  and  vagabond,  which  longs  to  try  itself  after  too  much  constraint.  Atlantic  crossings  of  today  can  give  little  idea  of  the  uncertainties  of  ship  life  in  those  times.  For  if  the  sea  does  not  change,  yet  men  change,  and  the  headlong  events  that  shape  them.  Ar-  nold  sailed  September  12th  on  H.M.S.  Lysander.  The  Lysander  had  a  hun-  dred  and  twenty  pounds  of  ballast  and  an  up-to-date  inboard  Rolls-Royce  1050.  She  is  a  pearl  [wrote  Arnold  to  Cornelia  Hutchens].  We  fly  along  and  I  must  ask   myself  whether  man  was  ever  really  meant  to  walk.  For  the  wonders  unfold  them-  selves  so  smoothly  on  a  ship-even  sea-  birds  envy  us.  Oh  Cornelia,  I  feel-para-  doxically-as  if  I  were  actually  drawing  nearer  to  all  that  is  dear  to  me.  Yet  how  can  that  be?  For  I  have  never  set  foot  in  the  New  World  (do  you  think  it  is  truly  wild?)  and  I  know  not  one  of  the  tawny  dwellers  on  the  islands  I  am  speeding  toward!  You'll  say.  &quot;That  boy  ...&quot;  But  Cornelia,  forgive  me,  for  I  feel  it!  Yours  on  shipboard,  The  slow,  almost  sensual  rhythm  of  life  in  that  tropical  place  did  much  to  refresh  and  revive  him.  To  E.  D.  Withy:  I  walked  all  day  in  the  streets  of  this  charming  town.  Everywhere  you  see  the  native  people  in  their  colorful  dress,  carry-  ing  baskets  on  their  woolly  heads,  and  see  the  smiles  light  up  their  dusky  faces.  We  in  Europe  speak  of  the  poverty  of  these  re-  gions,  but  if  balmy  weather  and  continu-  ous  sunshine,  freedom  from  stuffy  moral  strictures,  fresh  fruit  growing  on  every  tree,  cozy  homes  open  to  light  and  breeze  -if  this  can  be  called  poverty,  we  need  more  of  it.  Yes,  I  think  many  of  our  so-  called  reformers,  whose  high-mindedness  robs  them  of  the  elementary  feelings  of  the  human,  should  witness  what  I  have  just  witnessed:  a  lovely  girl  of  thirteen  or  so  with  a  baby  on  each  hip,  her  body  unfet-  tered  by  any  garment  save  a  sort  of  night-  gown,  going  to  the  market.  I've  had  a  cheery  letter  from  Ida-she's  as  busy  as  a  bee,  of  course.  Patty  and  Brian  are  both  well,  though  Brian  is  still  fighting  off  his  old  demon-asthma.  Well,  I  guess  I'll  close  for  now.  Don't  be  too  harsh  on  me.  Yours,  M.  Arnold  On  October  3rd,  Arnold  recrossed  the  Atlantic,  this  time  on  the  fashion-  able  Tecumseh.  Here  for  the  first  time,  amid  actresses  and  beautiful  socialites,  well-to-do  Texans  and  influential  New  Yorkers,  Arnold  savored  the  high  life.  They  made  much  of  him  as  a  young  poet,  and  there  is  even  the  apocryphal  story  of  a  fistfight  between  two  svelte  passengers,  each  of  whom  wanted  &quot;Mopsy&quot;  at  his  table.  I  have  been  Fortune's  toy  And  the  singing  bird  an  emperor  dreamed  of.  But  my  boyish  heart  Knows  what  it  knows.  &quot;I  would  be  an  exhausted  man,&quot;  remarked  Arnold  humorously  in  1930,  &quot;if  I'd  said  even  'Hello'  to  half  the  women  who've  worked  me  into  their  memoirs.  Ha-ha.&quot;  Let  us  sample  one  of  those  extravagant  accounts.  &quot;Face  it,  girls,&quot;  said  Network  one  eve-  ning.  &quot;It's  the  end  of  an  era.  The  war's  " b"over-New  York's  off  the  map!  Europe's  the  place  to  be  now!  [REDACTED],  Clichy,  Vichy  ..  .  Phew!  That's  where  I'd  go.&quot;  1  booked  on  the  Tecumseh  with  a  lot  of  other  weary  New  Yorkers,  anxious  like  me  to  escape  another  New  York  winter.  Matthew  Arnold  was  on  board  and  every-  body  made  a  great  fuss  over  him  which  is  always  the  way  with  poets  though  I've  never  understood  why.  This  one  was  less  noticeable  than  most  of  them  are,  being  small.  He  wore  a  corduroy  suit.  Never-  theless,  his  appearance  was  greeted  with  shouts.  It  seems  to  me  that  when  we  were  introduced  he  just  touched  the  visor  of  his  cap  a  little  bit,  and  looked  at  my  shoes.  But  on  our  last  day,  as  I  was  standing  at  the  rail,  he  broke  away  from  Josephine  Baker,  and  he  came  to  stand  at  my  side.  He  took  my  hand  and  looking  straight  ahead  of  him  he  said,  &quot;Why?  Why  this  heart-  breaking  cynicism,  Diana?&quot;-Crimson  Blackstone,  &quot;Give  'Em  an  Inch.&quot;  But  Life  is  not  a  game,  my  son.  The  fig  tree  doesn't  leave  its  roots  there  in  the  ground.  I  was  a  family  man,  I  did  my  best  to  serve  the  land,  the  family,  and  the  pen.  I  voyaged  to  the  hot,  sweet  regions.  I  was  tempted  And  though  I  am  a  man  I  hope  that  I  may  yet  deserve  my  Ida!  &quot;A  Christmas  Prayer.&quot;  ONE  evening,  Ida  switched  on  the  wireless.  Suddenly  the  room  was  filled  with  the  dark,  melodious  voice  of     ar  0  0  p  Mm  A  o  Jean  Cocteau,  giving  one  of  his  fa-  mous  descriptions  of  Colette.  We  lived  near  each  other  in  [REDACTED].  [REDACTED].  ...I  could  see  her  curtains.  Cats,  dogs.  Colette  had  a  lot  of  the  shrewd  peasant  in  her,  mixed  with  the  conscien-  tious  Olympian  artist.  When  the  broadcast  was  finally  over,  the  couple  spoke  of  [REDACTED],  of  how  much  they  desired  to  go  and  see  it  for  themselves.  They  spoke  of  the  wide  boulevards,  the  tapestries,  the  freedom  of  speech  which  they  knew  was  the  right  of  every  citizen.  It  was  pleasant  to  dream.  But  both  were  astonished  when,  af-  ter  a  moment,  Ida  said,  &quot;Why  not  migrate?&quot;  Like  two  newlyweds  they  laughed  together  and  clasped  hands.  All  eve-  ning  and  right  into  the  night  they  packed,  while  Patty  and  Brian  phoned  for  ferry  reservations  and  for  inexpen-  sive  family  lodgings  in  the  French  capital.  At  quarter  of  nine,  Matthew  Arnold  called  Eddie,  their  guardian  angel,  to  see  if  he  wanted  to  go,  too.  The  old  man  had  been  asleep.  \xc2\xab&quot;No,  you  go  on  ahead,  though,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Have  a  great  trip.  Now  put  the  kids  on  so  they  can  say  goodbye  to  their  old  playmate.  Put  Patty  on.&quot;  Patrice  Arnold:  Oh,  yeah,  1  remember  that  telephone  call.  Papa  and  Mama  was  upset  and  I  was  supposed  totalkto  Ed-  die....  He  says,  &quot;So  you're  goin'  on  a  big  boat?&quot;  And  I  says,  &quot;Yes,  Eddie.  We're  goin'  ta  [REDACTED].&quot;  &quot;Well,  be  a  good  little  gal,&quot;  he  says,  and  I  says,  &quot;I  will,  Ed-  die,&quot;  and  then  he  talks  to  my  brother  Brian.  Who  knows?  The  trip  across  the  Manche  may  have  reminded  Matthew  Arnold  of  an-  other  ocean  voyage  not  so  very  long  before.  Then  he  had  been  the  petted  ornament  of  high  society.  Perhaps  he  thought  of  it,  per-  haps  not.  But  we  do  know  that  during  his  twenty  years'  sojourn  in  [REDACTED],  Arnold  came  at  last  into  his  full  powers.  Honored  by  the  pres-  ence  of  a  real  English  poet,  the  admiring  peas,  ants  in  the  feubourg  did  everything  they  could  to  ease  his  pecuniary  and  other  cares.  Not  a  day  passes  without  some  little  attention  from  Monsieur  Rigolade  (the  butcher).  the  Boyers  (our  neighbors),  or  the  Widow  Cauchemar.  It's  a  basket  of  grapes  one  day,  a  box  of  handmade  aprons  the  next.  Yesterday,  a  luscious  lobster  Thermidor.  Really,  the  peasants  here  couldn't  be  nicer,  I'm  only  afraid  we  can  never  repay  their  kindness.  And  in  that  same  letter  we  have  for  the  first  time  a  clear  statement  of  Ar-  nold's  conception  of  the  artist's  role.  I'm  thinking  of  trying  my  hand  at  a  play  -something  on  the  theme  of  corruption.  Don't  waggle  your  fingerat  me,  Eileen.  I  know  you  think  that  love  is  the  sole  prov-  ince  where  a  poet  may  speak  his  mind.  But  I've  been  thinking  ...  as  a  poet,  why  turn  my  back  onany  figment  of  humanity?  Are  we  not,  all  of  us,  the  fragile  forked  crea-  ture?  Were  we  not  put  here  for  some  reason  we  can't  imagine,  and  condemned  to  thrash  around?  Nay,  Eileen,  I  shall  write  it!  Bless  me,  dear,  please."