 b"I HAD  never  intended  to  marry.  I  Let  me  put  it  another  way:  At  seventeen,  I  was  still  without  a  wife.  Perhaps  my  mother  made  life  too  comfortable  at  home.  It  was  she  who  kept  the  inkpot  on  my  writing  table  filled.  (This  was  the  Staffordshire  figure  of  a  Newfoundland  dog  with  a  basket  in  its  teeth  which  had  belonged  to  my  uncle,the  Earl  of  Maunder.)  Then,  quite  unexpectedly,  I  became  engaged  to  Lady  Sedilia  Gamut,  and  before  I  knew  it  I  was  head  of  an  establishment  that  included  twelve  in-  door  servants,  soon  to  be  joined  by  Nanny  Safflower,  who  had  brought  my  wife  up,  and  the  somewhat  sterner  Nanny  Newt,  who  went  on  to  found  Harrods.  There  were  children,  too,  of  course,  all  of  them  studying  the  uku-  lele,  a  four-stringed  instrument  that  the  recent  introduction  of  sound  into  films  had  made  extremely  popular.  We  rented  a  flat  in  Curzon  Street,  sleeping  in  hammocks  slung  from  the  door-  knobs.  This  was  a  typical  household  of  its  time.  I  decided  to  sell  the  inkpot  to  H.  G.  Wells.  Many  young  writers  were  do-  ing  this.  The  afternoon  I  called  on  him,  a  No.  2  blunt-tipped  pen  nib  lay  rusting  in  an  ashtray.  Wells  told  me  that  more  and  more  men  of  letters  and  women  of  letters  (he  seemed  to  want  to  be  fair)  were  taking  to  the  type-  writer.  I  was  struck  by  his  resemblance  to  Abraham  Lincoln,  the  556e6974656420537461746573n.  After  helping  me  Dg  wrap  the  inkpot  in  the  soci-  ol  ety  page  of  the  Financial  Times,  and  cautioning  me  not  to  drop  it  on  my  way  to  try  Thomas  Hardy,  Wells  predicted  there  would  in  a  short  time  be  a  craving  for  handwritten  bus  tickets.  I  have  wondered  if  it  was  ow-  ing  to  his  influence,  then  at  its  apogee,  that  so  many  young  writers  in  England  were  to  turn  to  this  form  of  expres-  sion.  The  Spanish  Civil  War  broke  out,  calling  many  poets  and  novelists  to  one  side  and  another,  and,  I  believe,  even  another.  I  worked  for  a  dairy  firm,  delivering  buttermilk  in  the  West  End.  My  wife  used  to  drive  me.  She  bought  a  small  green  car  without  a  clutch,  which  she  later  exchanged  for  a  yellow  car  without  a  hand  brake.  One  of  our  regular  customers  was  the  gifted  translator  Egon  Kelp.  Kelp  had  already  begun  the  arduous  task  of  rendering  the  complete  works  of  A.  Hitler  out  of  limpid  German  into  rational  English.  One  day,  as  Kelp  was  exam-  ining  his  monthly  bill  through  a  mag-  nifying  glass,  I  made  the  foolish  re-  mark  that  the  vogue  for  Hitler  was  probably  ephemeral  and  that  oneday  all  his  books  would  be  out  of  print.  What  made  me  say  this?  I  have  often  asked  myself.  Was  Kelp  offended!  I  know  only  that  he  presently  laid  down  the  magnifying  glass  and  said,  courte,  ously  but  decidedly,  that  he  thought  he  might  give  up  drinking  buttermilk.  I  believe  that  only  the  tact  and  un-  selfishness  of  my  wife  allowed  me  to  write  seventy-four  novels  before  the  age  of  thirty.  Once,  during  those  early  years,  I  remember  her  reaching  a  brave  and  lucid  conclusion:  [REDACTED]  was  not  enough.  I  would  spend  a  Fri-  day-to-Monday  in  [REDACTED].  An  excur-  sion  ticket  was  obtained  easily,  and  soon  I  was  comfortably  settled  into  a  room  in  the  guest  wing  of  the  British  Embassy  on  the  Rue  du  Faubourg  Saint-Honor\xc3\xa9.  The  Embassy  had  once  been  the  home  of  Pauline  Bonaparte.  Upon  my  return  to  [REDACTED]  on  Monday  morning,  my  wife  informed  me  that  during  my  absence  a  great  change  in  social  and  political  attitudes  had  swept  the  ranks  of  literary  En-  gland.  Young  writers  were  now  get-  ting  and  squandering  immense  sums  of  money  by  beating  each  other  out  on  scoops,&quot;  which  they  traded  in  Fleet  Street.  We  agreed  it  was  worth  a  try.  My  father-  in-law  was  able  to  introduce  me  to  the  President  of  a  country  then  situated  in  South  [REDACTED].  During  the  course  of  our  conversation,  the  President  observed  that  he  had  never  seen  the  Bey  of  Tunis  lose  his  temper.  We  were  able  to  place  this  with  the  book  editor  of  Bubble  and  Squeak,  whose  generous  check  allowed  us  to  spend  the  winter  in  Rome.  The  atmosphere  of  Rome  was  un-  like  the  atmosphere  of  [REDACTED],  or  Guildford,  or  Bath,  or  York,  or  Aber-  deen,  where  my  wife  had  relatives.  The  Irish  author  D'Arcy  Coin  was  the  fosse  cavallina  of  Roman  society.  He  had  a  deep  religious  bent  and  spent  some,  but  not  all,  of  his  time  at  prayer.  Coin  made  no  secret  of  his  preference  for  making  friends  with  persons  of  any  sex  whatsoever-a  taste  not  many  peo-  ple  could  understand,  let  alone  sympa-  ti}  [  weh  ;  &quot;If!&quot;      thize  with.  He  took  a  liking  to  both  of  us,  and  told  us  he  had  seen  Musso-  lini  setting  a  tablecloth  on  fire  durin  an  otherwise  unremarkable  dinner.  I  wondered  if  Mussolini  was  the  person  to  do  this.  Later,  I  was  shown  a  pho-  tograph  of  Pirandello.  In  Rome,  I  no-  ticed  some  of  the  works  of  A.  Hitler  for  sale,  and  I  regretted  more  than  ever  my  wounding  remark  to  Kelp.  Nineteen-thirty-eight  was  the  year  of  Munich.  Royalties  from  the  sale  of  my  one  hundred  and  elevennovels  covered  the  children's  hobbies  and  the  needs  of  the  household  staff,  now  in-  creased  to  twenty.  My  wife  and  I  de-  cided  we  could  risk  the  purchase  of  a  house.  After  offering  a  fair  price  for  Blenheim,  we  fell  in  love  with  a  ruined  Norman  abbey  in  St.  John's  Wood.  Legend  had  King  Harold  rid-  ing  forth  from  this  abbey  to  defend  England.  It  took  us  nine  years  and  a  million  and  a  half  pounds  to  restore,  but  we  have  never  been  sorry.  I  know  that  I  would  not  want  to  live  any-  where  else.  My  wife  papered  the  ser-  vants'  bedrooms,  standing  on  a  steplad-  der  she  had  inherited  not  long  before.  I  now  felt  free  to  consider  work  I  had  been  keeping  at  the  back  of  my  mind  for  some  time-a  biography  of  Julius  Drought.  Drought,  now  in  his  eighties,  was  waiting  to  be  knighted,  or  to  be  offered  the  chairmanship  of  Slink's  Biscuits,  or  for  some  of  his  miracles  to  be  recognized  by  the  high-  est  instances  of  the  Church  of  En-  gland,  with  canonization  to  follow.  I  found  his  company  enriching.  It  was  Drought  who  pointed  out  how  odd  it  was  that  the  frontiers  of  Great  [REDACTED]  had  seldom  changed.  He  owned  a  large  collection  of  ancient  maps,  on  which  the  frontiers  were  clearly  visi-  ble.  One  day,  I  heard  Drought  men-  tion  he  was  going  totea  with  Somerset  Maugham.  I  never  saw  him  again.  Of  my  wartime  memories,  none  is  more  vivid  than  Romney  Creeper's  re-  turn  from  the  Yalta  Conference.  The  Foreign  Office  had  been  warned  that  Stalin  never  went  anywhere  without  a  court  of  literary  advisers.  Wartime  austerity  meant  that  Churchill  could  have  only  one;  he  settled  on  Creeper.  Creeper  told  me  it  was  not  strictly  true  that  Stalin  had  given  a  poetry  reading;  he  had  simply  quoted  Rilke.  (The  ru-  mor  nonetheless  continues  to  grow.  It  is  unfounded.  Perhaps  my  speaking  of  it  here  will  help  to  curb  it,  or  at  least  reduce  it  to  sensible  proportions.)  Creeper  explained  that  Stalin  could  not  have  held  an  audience  for  long  by  means  of  Rilke.  The  otherwise  erudite  " b"Georgian  thought  &quot;Schatter&quot;  to  mean  &quot;several  cats.&quot;  In  a  private  talk  with  Creeper,  Stalin  confessed  that  life  was  nothing  but  &quot;several  cats  scampering  over  a  sundial&quot;-as  Creeper  was  to  put  it,  &quot;neither  good  Stalin  nor  good  Rilke.&quot;  Another  of  Creeper's  vignettes  was  of  Churchill's  suddenly  turning  to  him  and  saying,  &quot;What's  the  Russian  for  'status  quo?&quot;  Creeper  could  no  longer  recall  hisreply,  invented  on  the  spur  of  the  moment,  buthe  feared  the  map  of  Europe  would  bear  the  trace  of  his  ready  wit.  He  showed  me  a  quick  sketch  he  had  made  of  Stalin  at  the  opera.  I  was  struck  by  his  resemblance  to  Yeats.  Bearing  in  mind  my  thoughtless  slight  to  Egon  Kelp,  I  refrained  from  telling  Creeper  that  it  was  actually  I  who  had  been  tapped  for  Yalta.  How-  ever,  Nanny  Safflower  had  been  called  up  for  wartime  duty,  and  I  felt  reluc-  tant  to  leave  my  wife  alone  to  face  the  music.  That  was  how  it  came  about  that  Churchill  had  second-best  literary  guidance  at  a  time  crucial  for  civiliza-  tion,  and  that  Stalin  lost  his  only  chance  of  meeting  me.  My  wife  agrees  that  had  I  been  present  at  Yalta  the  map  of  Europe  might,  by  now,  be  quite  another  kettle  of  fish."