 b"REx  BALPEEN,  a  young  conceptual  R  artist  in  fur  who  supports  him-  self  by  realigning  roller  skates,  hasn't  let  economic  hardship  stifle  his  taste  for  a  fine  meal.  Each  evening,  he  sits  down  to  a  dinnerhe  has  conceived  and  prepared  with  thrifty  good  taste  and  acarefree  disregard  for  personal  safety.  &quot;Haute  cuisine  needn't  mean  mega-  bucks,&quot;  he  says,  laboring  over  alarge  piece  of  mutton  he  has  saut\xc3\xa9ed  lightly,  then  boiled  for  a  long,  long  time.  &quot;Pass  me  those  pliers,  would  you?&quot;  Mr.  Balpeen  shares  his  loft,  a  con-  verted  fast-food  restaurant  near  Wash-  ington  Square,  with  a  former  friend.  Although  the  renovation  remains  in-  complete,  they  have  a  spacious  kitchen  with  a  refrigerator,  a  large  grill,  and  excellent  facilities  for  deep  frying,  a  Balpeen  specialty.  &quot;I've  got  an  electric  lettuce-dryer,  several  pairs  of  tongs,  a  Veg-O-Matic,  and  a  digital  egg  timer,&quot;  he  says,  &quot;Also  plenty  of  buns-they  were  here  when  I  moved  in.  I'm  glad  to  have  them,  but  I  do  wish  I  had  some  potatoes.  Did  you  ever  try  to  make  French  fries  with  white  bread?  They  end  up  like  paper  dolls.&quot;  On  one  recent  evening,  Mr.  Bal-  peen  and  six  friends  sat  down  toa  memorable  meal  that  began  with  the  individually  wrapped  cheese-and-crack-  ers  Mr.  Balpeen  buys  from  a  vending  machine  in  the  movie  house  across  the  street.  After  a  relatively  unsuccessful  second  course  of  yeast,  he  won  cries  of  apprehension  for  a  platter  of  Italian  sausages  warmed  slightly  on  his  clock  radio  so  they  were  still  pink  inside-  and  outside,  for  that  matter.  &quot;I  always  remove  the  casings,&quot;  Mr.  Balpeen  says  knowingly.  The  dish's  leaden,  glutinous  quality  contrasted  well  with  the  piquant,  undercooked  rice  he  served  with  it.  &quot;I  never  follow  a  recipe,&quot;  says  Mr.  Balpeen.  &quot;I  just  open  a  few  cans  and  wait  for  inspiration.  If  it's  a  particular-  ly  complex  meal,  though,  I'll  some-  times  consult  a  periodic  table  or  my  attorney.&quot;  His  choiceof  wines  was  also  made  to  suit  both  palate  and  pocketbook.  A  Lithuanian  Zinfandel  bearing  a  $1.29  price  tag  was  followed  by  a  pint  of  Train  de  Nuit  at  seventy-nine  cents  and  an  antacid.  Dessert,  a  bowl  of  M&amp;M's  in  grenadine,  was  accompanied  by  Mr.  Balpeen's  renowned  Caf\xc3\xa9  Ol\xc3\xa9!,  an  aggressive  brew  to  which  he  adds  jalapefio  peppers  and  saltpeter.  No  culinary  dilettante,  Mr.  Balpeen  offers  a  practical  rationale  for  his  cook-  ing.  &quot;The  way  I  look  at  it,&quot;  he  says,  &quot;if  I  don't  eat  I'll  starve.&quot;  At  Billy  Joe  Bob  Dinwiddie  Col-  lege,  where  he  studied  cool,  Mr.  Bal-  peen  acquired  his  taste  for  the  whole-  wheat  grits  he  serves  at  every  oppor-  tunity.  He  also  prides  himself  on  his  veal  roast,  always  a  favorite  with  com-  pany.  &quot;I  cover  it  with  foam  from  my  fire  extinguisher,  then  drop  the  meat  into  a  skillet  full  of  flaming  Coin-  treau,&quot;  Mr.  Balpeen  says.  &quot;When  the  steam  clears,  I  servea  pre-sweetened  cereal  and  gherkins.&quot;  Later,  a  crust  forms  around  the  skillet,  which  his  friends  take  turns  helping  to  scrape  off  with  their  fingernails.  Despite  his  limited  budget,  Mr.  Bal-  peen  can  easily  find  most  of  the  ingre-  dients  for  his  recipes  in  his  neighbor-  hood  market,  pharmacy,  and  adult  bookstore.  Okra,  in  season,  comes  fresh  in  ten-pound  sacks  from  Ira's  Okra  Outlet  on  West  197th  Street.  &quot;Ahgh  mrfl  vhasz  hrshamgrm,&quot;  Mr.  Balpeen  says,  appreciatively  munching  a  hand-  ful.  Much  of  his  expertise  in  spirits  he  credits  to  his  father,  a  pinsetter,  who  always  washed  his  hair  in  day-old  Pil-  sner.  (The  younger  Mr.  Balpeen  still  uses  a  bowling  shirtin  place  of  cheese-  cloth.)  &quot;Sometimes  when  I  take  a  chance  on  an  inexpensive  unlabelled  vintage  from  Guatemala  or  Bergen  County,&quot;  Mr.  Balpeen  says,  &quot;I'll  no-  tice  one  of  my  guests  becoming  a  little  bug-eyed.  In  that  case,  I  just  save  the  rest  ofthe  bottle  for  stripping  furniture  and  practical  jokes.&quot;  He  does  offer  one  caution  for  fel-  low-cooks.  &quot;Stay  away  from  choles-  terol,&quot;  he  advises,  gesturing  with  a  sausage.  &quot;Even  when  you  can  get  it  fresh,  it  doesn't  have  that  old  Stuttgart  tang.&quot;    "