 b"Once  I  wrote  down  on  the  empty  spaces  of  a  time-table  the  names  of  those  who  came  to  Gatsby's  house  that  summer.  It  is  an  old  time-table  now,  disintegrating  at  its  folds...  But  I  can  still  read  the  gray  names  -&quot;The  Great  Gatsby,&quot;  by  F.  Scott  Fitzgerald.  ROM  the  Diners  Club  Interna-  Ftional,  then,  came  John  Citizen  and  George  T.  Worthington  and  J.  N.  Travers,  and  Judith  Shaw  the  account  executive  and  her  associate  Robert  Marston,  who  had  the  Diners  Doublecards,  and  Jeffrey  Rice  and  his  sales  manager,  Cato  Johnson,  who  also  had  the  Doublecards  until  they  lost  them  last  summer  up  in  [REDACTED].  And  Macy  Shopper,  and  John  Q.  Customer,  from  456  Main  Street,  Anytown,  New  York,  who  stood  in  a  corner  and  showed  his  Irving  Trust  checkbook  to  whosoever  came  near,  and  John  Q.  Public,  whose  Korvettes  charge  plate,  they  say,  turned  to  dust  one  winter  afternoon  for  no  good  reason  at  all.  John  Doe  came  from  1234  Main  Street,  Hometown,  [REDACTED],  asIre-  member  from  his  mail-order  luggage  tag,  but  once  he  got  drunk  and  pro-  duced  a  Saks  Fifth  Avenue  charge  plate  that  said  he  was  from  150  Elm  Street,  Anywhere,  [REDACTED],  and  when  I  knew  him  at  the  Hertz  No.  1  Club  he  lived  at  123  Main  Street,  City  and  State.  Of  American  Express  cardholders  there  were  C.  F.  Frost,  and  Jacques  LeGrand,  reputed  to  be  French,  and  from  England  Charles  F.  Frost.  Also  from  England  were  J.  S.  Smith  (the  son)  with  his  Habitat  card,  and  John  Williams,  with  Access,  and  H.  Ste-  phens,  who  carried  Barclaycard,  and  Rodney  Cake,  of  Mill  House,  Nightin-  gale  Road,  Horsham,  Sussex,  whose     solid-gold  business  card  was  said  to  have  cleaned  him  out  at  two  hundred  and  twenty-six  pounds,  and  who  killed  himself  by  putting  his  right  hand  in  a  cash  machine.  James  P.  (&quot;Jim&quot;)  Hayden  came  there,  too,  for  he  had  Carte  Blanche,  and  so  did  Clark  Grimesand  J.  A.  Modern,  and  Mod-  ern's  girls.  R.  A.  Hoover  was  there  with  Wings,  his  Eastern  Airlines  personal  credit  card,  three  days  before  it  was  declared  void.  He  arrived  always  with  two  Bankcard  holders.  They  were  never  quite  the  same  ones,  but  they  were  so  like  one  another  that  it  in-  evitably  seemed  they  were  cousins  to  the  great  American  capitalist  families  listed  in  the  telephone  directory.  I  have  forgotten  their  names-J.,  I  think,  or  else  L.,  and  their  last  names  were  al-  ways  Rogers  or  Harris.  In  addition  to  all  these,  I  can  re-  member  that  Frank  Wright,  who  con-  trolled  the  Major  Construction  Com-  panyup  in  [REDACTED],  was  there  at  least  once-he  came  to  pass  out  five  hundred  of  his  de-luxe  raised-print  business  cards,  which  he  confessed  had  cost  $6.45,with  a  free  cardcase-  and  Barbara  S.  Gottlieb,  who  was  well  over  sixty  and  had  a  Social  Security  card,  and  Carl  Rhodes,  with  Blue  Cross  coverage,  dead  now,  and  John  Parker,  the  Brooklyn  Savings  Bank  Money  Check  customer  who  not  long  afterward  strangled  a  teller,  and  Visa's  young  F.  W.  Weeks,  who  had  his  credit  cut  off  in  the  war.  A  man  who  claimed  that  his  middle  name  had  been  Integrity  since  1892  came  there  often,  and  so  did  Your  Name  Here,  whom  we  called  by  some  other  name  that,  if  I  ever  knew  it,  I  have  forgotten.  All  these  people  came  to  Gatsby's  house  in  the  summer,  and  all  of  them  were  turned  away."