 b"LUNCHING  yesterday  on  chicken  in  ichor-a  house  specialty  at  my  favorite  midtown  restau-  rant-I  was  forced  to  listen  to  a  play-  wright  acquaintance  defend  his  latest  opus  against  a  set  of  notices  that  read  like  a  Tibetan  Book  of  the  Dead.  Drawing  tenuous  connections  between  Sophocles'  dialogue  and  his  own,  Moses  Goldworm  wolfed  down  his  vegeta-  ble  cutlet  and  raged  like  Carry  Na-  tion  against  the  New  York  theatre  critics.I,  of  course,  could  do  nothing  more  than  offer  a  sympathetic  ear  and  assure  him  that  the  phrase  &quot;a  drama-  tist  of  zero  promise&quot;  might  be  in-  terpreted  in  several  ways.  Then,  in  the  split  second  it  takes  to  go  from  calm  to  bedlam,  the  Pinero  manqu\xc3\xa9  half  rose  from  his  seat,  suddenly  unable  to  speak.  Frantically  waving  his  arms  and  clutching  his  throat,  the  poor  fel-  low  turned  a  shade  of  blue  invari-  ably  associated  with  Thomas  Gainsbor-  ough.  &quot;My  God,  what  is  it?&quot;  someone  screamed,  as  silverware  clattered  to  the  floor  and  heads  turned  from  every  table.     FOR  MANKIND  &quot;He's  having  a  coronary!&quot;  a  waiter  yelled.  &quot;No,  no,  it's  a  fit,&quot;  said  a  man  at  the  booth  next  to  me.  Goldworm  continued  to  struggle  and  wave  his  arms,  but  with  ever-  diminishing  style.  Then,  as  various  mutually  exclusive  remedies  were  ad-  vanced  in  anxious  falsettos  by  sundry  well-meaning  hysterics  in  the  room,  the  playwright  confirmed  the  waiter's  diagnosis  by  collapsing  to  the  floor  like  a  sack  of  rivets.  Crumpled  in  a  forlorn  heap,  Goldworm  seemed  destined  to  slip  away  before  an  ambulance  could  arrive,  when  a  six-foot  stranger  possess-  ing  the  cool  aplomb  of  an  astronaut  strode  to  stage  center  and  said  in  dra-  matic  tones,  &quot;Leave  everything  to  me,  folks.  We  don't  need  a  doctor-this  is  not  acardiac  problem.  By  clutching  his  throat,  this  fellow  has  made  the  uni-  versal  sign,  known  in  every  corner  of  the  world,  to  indicate  that  he  is  chok-  ing.  The  symptoms  may  appear  to  be  the  same  as  those  of  a  man  suffering  from  a  heart  attack,  but  this  man,  I  assure  you,  can  be  saved  by  the  Heim-  lich  Maneuver!&quot; time  trauma.  With  that,  the  hero  of  the  moment  wrapped  his  arms  around  my  companion  from  behind  and  lifted  him  to  an  up-  right  position.  Placing  his  fist  just  un-  der  Goldworm's  sternum,  he  hugged  sharply,  causing  a  side  order  of  bean  curd  to  rocket  out  of  the  victim's  tra-  chea  and  carom  off  the  hat  rack.  Gold-  worm  came  to  apace  and  thanked  his  savior,  who  then  directed  our  atten-  tion  to  a  printed  notice,  supplied  by  the  Board  of  Health,  affixed  to  the  wall.  The  poster  described  the  aforemen-  tioned  drama  with  perfect  fidelity.  What  we  had  witnessed  was  indeed  &quot;the  universal  choking  signal,&quot;  con-  veying  the  victim's  tripartite  plight:  (1)  Cannot  speak  or  breathe,  (2)  Turns  blue,  (3)  Collapses.  The  diag-  nostic  signs  on  the  notice  were  followed  by  clear  directions  on  the  administra-  tion  of  the  lifesaving  procedure:  the  selfsame  abrupt  hug  and  resulting  air-  borne  protein  we  had  witnessed,  which  had  relieved  Goldworm  of  the  awk-  ward  formalities  of  the  Long  Goodbye.  A  few  minutes  later,  strolling  home  on  Fifth  Avenue,  I  wondered  if  Dr.  Heimlich,  whose  name  is  now  so  firmly  placed  in  the  national  consciousness  as  the  discoverer  of  the  marvellous  ma-  neuver  I  had  just  seen  per-  formed,  had  any  idea  of  how  close  he  had  once  come  to  being  scooped  by  three  still  utterly  anonymous  scientists  who  had  worked  for  months  onend  in  search  of  a  cure  for  the  same  perilous  meal-  also  won-  dered  if  he  knew  of  the  ex-  istence  of  a  certain  diary  kept  by  an  unnamed  member  of  the  pioneer  trio-a  diary  that  came  into  my  possession  at  auction  quite  by  mistake,  because  of  its  similarity  in  heft  and  color  to  an  illustrat-  ed  work  entitled  &quot;Harem  Slaves,&quot;  for  which  I  had  bid  a  trifling  eight  weeks'  salary.  Following  are  some  excerpts  from  the  diary,  which  Iset  down  here  purely  in  the  in-  terest  of  science:  J.  _  Lo  JANUARY  3.  Met  my  two  lk  colleagues  today  for  the  first  time  and  found  them  both  enchanting,  although  Wolfsheim  is  not  at  all  as  I  had  imagined.  For  one  thing,  he  is  heavier  than  in  his  pho-  to  (I  think  he  uses  an  old  one).  His  beard  is  ofa  medi-  um  length  but  seems  to  grow  with  the  irrational  abandon  " b'of  crabgrass.  Add  to  this  thick,  bushy  brows  and  beady  eyes  the  size  of  microbes,  which  dart  about  suspiciously  be-  hind  spectacles  the  thickness  of  bullet,  proof  glass.  And  then  there  are  the  twitches.  The  man  has  accumu-  lated  a  repertoire  of  fa-  cial  tics  and  blinks  that  demand  nothing  less  than  a  complete  musi-  cal  score  by  Stravinsky.  And  yet  Abel  Wolf-  sheim  is  a  brilliant  sci-  entist  whose  work  on  dinner-table  choking  has  made  him  a  legend  the  world  over.  He  was  quite  flattered  that  I  was  familiar  with  his  paper  on  Random  Gag-  ging,  and  he  confided  to  me  that  my  once  skeptically  regarded  my  theory,  that  hiccupping  ,  is  innate,  is  now  com-  monly  accepted  at  MLT.  If  Wolfsheim  is  ec-  centric-looking,  how-  ever,  the  other  mem-  ber  of  our  triumvirate  is  exactly  what  I  had  expected  from  reading  her  work.  Shulamith  Arnolfini,  whose  experiments  with  recombinant  DNA  led  to  the  creation  ofa  gerbil  that  could  sing  &quot;Let  My  People  Go,&quot;  is  British  in  the  extreme-predictably  tweedy,  with  her  hair  skun  in  a  bun,  and  with  horn-rimmed  glasses  resting  halfway  down  a  beak  nose.  Fur-  thermore,  she  possesses  a  speech  im-  pediment  so  audibly  juicy  that  to  be  near  her  when  she  pronounces  a  word  like  &quot;sequestered&quot;  is  equivalent  to  standing  at  the  center  ofa  monsoon.  I  like  them  both  and  I  predict  great  dis-  coveries.  January  5.  Things  did  not  get  un-  der  way  as  smoothly  asI  had  hoped,  for  Wolfsheim  and  I  have  had  a  mild  dis-  agreement  over  procedure.  I  suggested  doing  our  initial  experiments  on  mice,  but  he  regards  this  as  unnecessarily  tim-  id.  His  idea  is  to  use  convicts,  feeding  them  large  chunks  of  meat  at  five-sec-  ond  intervals,  with  instructions  not  to  chew  before  swallowing.  Only  then,  he  claims,  can  we  observe  the  dimensions  of  the  problem  in  its  true  perspective.  I  took  issue  on  moral  grounds,  and  Wolf-  sheim  became  defensive.  I  asked  him  if  he  felt  science  was  above  morality,  and   took  issue  with  his  equating  humans  and  hamsters.  Nor  did  I  agree  with  his  somewhat  emotional  assessment  of  me  as  a  &quot;unique  moron.&quot;  Fortunately,  Shulamith  took  my  side.  January  7.  Today  was  a  productive  one  for  Shulamith  and  me.  Working  around  the  clock,  we  induced  strangu-  lation  in  a  mouse.  This  was  accom-  plished  by  coaxing  the  rodent  to  in-  gest  healthy  portions  of  Gouda  cheese  and  then  making  it  laugh,  Predictably,  the  food  went  down  the  wrong  pipe,  and  choking  occurred.  Grasping  the  mouse  firmly  by  the  tail,  I  snapped  it  like  a  small  whip,  and  the  morsel  of  cheese  came  loose.  Shulamith  and  I  made  voluminous  notes  on  the  ex-  periment.  If  we  can  transfer  the  tail-  snap  procedure  to  humans,  we  may  have  something.  Too  early  to  tell.  FrBRUARYy  15.  Wolfsheim  has  devel-  oped  a  theory  that  he  insists  on  testing,  although  I  find  it  simplistic.  He  is  con-  vinced  that  a  person  choking  on  food  can  be  saved  by  (his  words)  &quot;giving  the  victim  a  drink  of  water.&quot;  At  first  I  thought  he  was  joking,  but  his  intense  manner  and  wild  eyes  indicated  a  defi-  nite  commitment  to  the  concept.  Clear-  ly,  he  has  been  up  for  days  toying  with  this  notion,  and  in  his  laboratory  glasses  of  water  filled  to  various  levels  were  everywhere.  When  I  responded  skep-  tically,  he  accused  me  of  being  nega-  tive,  and  began  twitching  like  a  disco  dancer.  You  can  tell  he  hates  me.  Frsrvary  27.  Today  was  a  day  off,  and  Shulamith  and  I  decided  to  motor  to  the  countryside.  Once  we  were  out  in  nature,  the  whole  concept  of  chok-  ing  seemed  so  far  away.  Shulamith  told  me  that  she  had  been  married  before,  to  a  scientist  who  had  pioneered  a  study  of  radioactive  isotopes,  and  whose  en-  tire  body  vanished  in  mid-conversation  while  he  was  testifying  before  a  Senate  committee.  We  talked  about  our  per-  sonal  preferences  and  tastes  and  discov-  ered  that  we  were  both  fond  of  the  same  bacteria.  I  asked  Shulamith  how  she  would  feel  if  I  kissed  her.  She  said,  &quot;Swell,&quot;  giving  me  the  full  moist  spray  peculiar  to  her  speech  problem.  I  have  come  to  the  conclusion  that  she  is  quite  a  beautiful  woman,  particularly  when  viewed  through  an  X-ray-proof  lead  screen.  Marce  1.  I  now  believe  W  olfsheim  is  a  madman,  He  tested  his  &quot;glass  of     ' b"water&quot;  theory  a  dozen  times,  and  in  no  case  did  it  prove  effective.  When  I  told  him  to  stop  wasting  valuable  time  and  money,  he  bounced  a  petri  dish  off  the  bridge  of  my  nose,  and  I  was  forced  to  hold  him  at  bay  with  the  Bunsen  burn-  er.  As  always,  when  work  becomes  more  difficult  frustrations  mount.  Marce  3.  Unable  to  obtain  subjects  for  our  dangerous  experiments,  we  have  been  forced  to  cruise  restaurants  and  cafeterias,  hoping  to  work  rapidly  should  we  be  lucky  enough  to  find  someone  in  distress.  At  the  Sans  Souci  Deli,  I  tried  lifting  a  Mrs.  Rose  Mos-  cowitz  by  her  ankles  and  shaking  her,  and  although  I  managed  to  dislodge  a  monstrous  chunk  of  kasha,  she  seemed  ungrateful.  Wolfsheim  suggested  that  we  might  try  slapping  choke  victims  on  the  back,  and  pointed  out  that  impor-  tant  back-slapping  concepts  had  been  suggested  to  him  by  Fermi  at  a  sympo-  sium  on  digestion  in  [REDACTED]  thirty-two  years  ago.  A  grant  to  explore  this  was  refused,  however,  when  the  govern-  ment  decided  in  favor  of  nuclear  pri-  orities.  Wolfsheim,  incidentally,  has  turned  out  to  be  a  rival  in  my  affair  with  Shulamith,  and  confessed  affec-  tion  for  her  yesterday  in  the  biology  lab.  When  he  tried  to  kiss  her,  she  hit  him  with  a  frozen  monkey.  He  is  a  very  complex  and  sad  man.  Marcn  18.  At  Marcello's  Villa  to-  day  we  chanced  upon  a  Mrs.  Guido  Bertoni  in  the  act  of  choking  on  what  was  later  identified  as  either  cannelloni  or  a  Ping-Pong  ball.  As  I  had  fore-  seen,  slapping  her  on  the  back  did  not  help.  Wolfsheim,  unable  to  part  with  the  old  theories,  tried  administering  a  glass  of  water,  but  unfortunately  seized  it  from  the  table  of  a  gentleman  well  placed  in  the  cement  and  contracting  community,  and  all  three  of  us  were  escorted  out  of  the  service  entrance  and  up  against  a  lamppost,  over  and  over.  Aprit  2.  Today  Shulamith  raised  the  notion  of  a  pincers-that  is,  some  form  of  long  tweezers  or  forceps  to  ex-  tract  food  that  falls  into  the  windpipe.  Each  citizen  would  carry  one  such  in-  strument  on  his  person  and  be  educated  in  its  use  and  handling  by  the  Red  Cross.  In  eager  anticipation,  we  drove  to  Belknap's  Salt  of  the  Sea  to  remove  abadly  wedged  crabcake  from  the  esophagus  of  a  Mrs.  Shana  Mendel.  Unfortunately,  the  gasping  woman  be-  came  agitated  when  I  produced  the  for-  midable  tweezers,  and  sank  her  teeth  into  my  wrist,  causing  me  to  drop  the  instrument  down  her  throat.  Only  the  quick  action  of  her  husband,  Nathan,  who  held  her  above  the  ground  by  her  hair  and  raised  and  lowered  her  like  a  yo-yo,  prevented  a  fatality.  AprIL  11.  Our  project  is  coming  to  a  close-unsuccessfully,  I  am  sorry  to  say.  Funding  has  been  cut  off,  our  foundation  board  having  decided  that  the  remaining  money  might  be  more  profitably  spent  on  some  joy-buzzers.  After  I  received  the  news  of  our  ter-  mination,  I  had  to  have  fresh  air  to  clear  my  head,  and  as  I  walked  alone  at  night  by  the  Charles  River  I  couldn't  help  reflecting  on  the  limits  of  science.  Perhaps  people  are  meant  to  choke  now  and  then  when  they  eat.  Perhaps  it  is  all  part  of  some  unfathomable  cosmic  design,.  Are  we  so  conceited  as  to  think  research  and  science  can  control  every-  thing?  A  man  swallows  too  large  a  bite  of  steak,  and  gags.  W  hat  could  be  simpler?  What  more  proof  is  needed  of  the  exquisite  harmony  of  the  uni-  verse?  We  will  never  know  all  the  answers.  APRIL  20.  Yesterday  afternoon  was  our  last  day,  and  I  chanced  upon  Shu-  lamith  in  the  Commissary,  where  she  was  glancing  over  a  monograph  on  the  new  herpes  vaccine  and  gobbling  a  matjes  herring  totide  her  over  till  din-  nertime.  I  approached  stealthily  from  the  rear  and,  seeking  to  surprise  her,  quietly  placed  my  arms  around  her,  experiencing  at  that  moment  the  bliss  that  only  a  lover  feels.  Instantly  she  be-  gan  choking,  aportion  of  herring  hav-  ing  lodged  suddenly  in  her  gullet.  My  arms  were  still  around  her,  and,  as  fate  would  have  it,  my  hands  were  clasped  just  under  her  sternum.  Something-  call  it  blind  instinct,  call  it  scientific  luck-made  me  form  a  fist  and  snap  it  back  against  her  chest.  In  a  trice,  the  herring  became  disengaged,  and  a  mo-  ment  later  thelovely  woman  was  as  good  as  new.  When  I  told  Wolfsheim  about  this,  he  said,  &quot;Yes,  of  course.  It  works  with  herring,  but  will  it  work  with  ferrous  metals?&quot;  I  don't  know  what  he  meant  and  I  don't  care.  The  project  is  ended,  and  while  it  is  perhaps  true  that  we  have  failed,  others  will  follow  in  our  foot-  steps  and,  building  upon  our  crude  pre-  liminary  work,  will  at  last  succeed.  In-  deed,  all  ofus  here  can  foresee  the  day  when  our  children,  or  certainly  our  grandchildren,  will  live  in  a  world  where  no  individual,  regardless  of  race,  creed,  or  color,  will  ever  be  fatally  overcome  by  his  own  main  course.  To  end  on  a  personal  note,  Shulamith  and  I  are  going  to  marry,  and  until  the  economy  begins  to  brighten  a  little  she  and  Wolfsheim  and  I  have  decided  to  provide  a  much-needed  service  and  open  up  a  really  first-class  tattoo  parlor.  "