 b"STELLA,  cold,  cold,  the  coldness  of  hell.  How  they  walked  on  the  roads  together,  Rosa  with  Mag-  da  curled  upbetween  sore  breasts,  Magda  wound  up  in  the  shawl.  Some-  times  Stella  carried  Magda.  But  she  was  jealous  of  Magda.  A  thin  girl  of  fourteen,  too  small,  with  thin  breasts  of  her  own,  Stella  wanted  to  be  wrapped  in  a  shawl,  hidden  away,  asleep,  rocked  by  the  march,  a  baby,  a  round  infant  in  arms.  Magda  took  Rosa's  nipple,  and  Rosa  never  stopped  walking,  a  walking  cradle.  There  was  not  enough  milk;  sometimes  Magda  sucked  air;  then  she  screamed.  Stella  was  ravenous.  Her  knees  were  tumors  on  sticks,  her  elbows  chicken  bones.  Rosa  did  not  feel  hunger;  she  felt  light,  not  like  someone  walking  but  like  someone  in  a  faint,  in  trance,  ar-  rested  in  a  fit,  someone  who  is  already  a  floating  angel,  alert  and  seeing  everything,  but  in  the  air,  not  there,  not  touching  the  road.  As  if  teetering  on  the  tips  of  her  fingernails  She  looked  into  Magda's  face  through  a  gap  in  the  shawl:  a  squirrel  in  a  nest,  safe,  no  one  could  reach  her  inside  the  little  house  of  the  shawl's  windings.  The  face,  very  round,  a  pocket  mir-  ror  of  a  face:  but  it  was  not  Rosa's  bleak  complexion,  dark  like  cholera,  it  was  another  kind  of  face  altogether,  eyesblue  as  air,  smooth  feathers  of  hair  nearly  as  yellow  as  the  Star  sewn  into  Rosa's  coat.  You  could  think  she  was  one  of  their  babies.  Rosa,  floating,  dreamed  of  giving  Magda  away  in  one  of  the  villages.  She  could  leavethe  line  for  a  minute  and  push  Magda  into  the  hands  of  any  woman  on  the  side  of  the  road.  But  if  she  moved  out  of  line  they  might  shoot.  And  even  if  she  fled  the  line  for  half  a  second  and  pushed  the  shawl-bundle  at  a  stranger,  would  the  woman  take  it?  She  might  be  sur-  prised,  or  afraid;  she  might  drop  the  shawl,  and  Magda  would  fall  out  and  strike  her  head  and  die.  The  little  round  head.  Such  a  good  child,  she  gave  up  screaming,  and  sucked  now  only  for  the  taste  ofthe  drying  nip-  ple  itself.  The  neat  gripof  the  tiny  gums.  One  mite  of  a  tooth  tip  sticking  up  in  the  bottom  gum,  how  shining,  an  elfin  tombstone  of  white  marble  gleaming  there.  Without  complaining,  Magda  relinquished  Rosa's  teats,  first  the  left,  then  the  right;  both  were  cracked,  not  a  sniff  of  milk.  The  duct-  crevice  extinct,  a  dead  volcano,  blind  eye,  chill  hole,  so  Magda  took  the  cor-  ner  of  the  shawl  and  milked  it  instead.  She  sucked  and  sucked,  flooding  the  threads  with  wetness.  The  shawl's  good  flavor,  milk  of  linen.  It  was  a  magic  shawl,  it  could  nourish  an  infant  for  three  days  and  three  nights.  Magda  did  not  die,  she  stayed  alive,  although  very  quiet.  A  peculiar  smell,of  cinnamon  and  al-  monds,  lifted  out  of  her  mouth.  She  held  her  eyes  open  every  moment,  forgetting  how  to  blink  or  nap,  and  Rosa  and  sometimes  Stella  studied  their  blueness.  On  the  road  they  raised  one  burden  of  a  leg  after  another  and  studied  Magda's  face.  &quot;Aryan,&quot;  Stella  said,  in  a  voice  grown  as  thin  as  a  string;  and  Rosa  thought  how  Stella  gazed  at  Magda  like  a  young  canni-  bal.  And  the  time  that  Stella  said  &quot;Aryan,&quot;  it  sounded  to  Rosa  as  if  Stella  had  really  said  &quot;Let  us  devour  her.&quot;  But  Magda  lived  to  walk.  She  lived  that  long,  but  she  did  not  walk  very  well,  partly  because  she  was  only  fifteen  months  old,  and  partly  because  the  spindles  of  her  legs  could  not  hold  up  her  fat  belly.  It  was  fat  with  air,  full  and  round.  Rosa  gave  almost  all  her  food  to  Magda,  Stella  gave  noth-  ing;  Stella  was  ravenous,  a  growing  child  herself,  but  not  growing  much.  Stella  did  not  menstruate.  Rosa  did  not  menstruate.  Rosa  was  ravenous,  but  also  not;  she  learned  from  Magda  how  to  drink  the  taste  of  a  finger  in  one's  mouth.  They  were  in  a  place  without  pity,  all  pity  was  annihilated  in  Rosa,  she  looked  at  Stella's  bones  without  pity.  She  was  sure  that  Stella  was  waiting  for  Magda  to  die  so  she  could  puther  teeth  into  the  little  thighs.  Rosa  knew  Magda  was  going  to  die  very  soon;  she  should  have  been  dead  already,  but  she  had  been  buried  away  deep  inside  the  magic  shawl,  mis-  taken  there  for  the  shivering  T  mound  of  Rosa's  breasts;  Rosa  clung  to  the  shawl  as  if  it  covered  only  herself.  No  one  took  it  away  from  her.  Magda  was  mute.  She  never  cried.  Rosa  hid  her  in  the  barracks,  under  the  shawl,  but  she  knew  that  one  day  someone  would  inform;  or  one  day  someone,  not  even  Stella,  would  steal  Magda  to  eat  her.  When  Magda  began  to  walk  Rosa  knew  that  Magda  was  going  to  die  very  soon,  something  would  happen.  She  was  afraid  to  fall  asleep;  she  slept  with  the  weight  of  her  thigh  on  Mag-  da's  body;  she  was  afraid  she  would  smother  Magda  under  her  thigh.  The  33  weight  of  Rosa  was  becoming  less  and  less;  Rosa  and  Stella  were  slowly  turning  into  air.  Magda  was  quiet,  but  her  eyes  were  horribly  alive,  like  blue  tigers.  She  watched.  Sometimes  she  laughed-it  seemed  a  laugh,  but  how  could  it  be?  Magda  had  never  seen  anyone  laugh.  Still,  Magda  laughed  at  her  shawl  when  the  wind  blew  its  corners,  the  bad  wind  with  pieces  of  black  in  it,  that  made  Stella's  and  Rosa's  eyes  tear.  Magda's  eyes  were  always  clear  and  tearless.  She  watched  like  a  tiger.  She  guarded  her  shawl.  No  one  could  touch  it;  only  Rosa  could  touch  it.  Stella  was  not  allowed.  The  shawl  was  Magda's  own  baby,  her  pet,  her  little  sister.  She  tangled  herself  up  in  it  and  sucked  on  one  of  the  corners  when  she  wanted  to  be  very  still.  Then  Stella  took  the  shawl  away  and  made  Magda  die.  Afterward  Stella  said:  &quot;I  was  cold.&quot;  And  afterward  she  was  always  cold,  always.  The  cold  went  into  her  heart:  Rosa  saw  that  Stella's  heart  was  cold.  Magda  flopped  onward  with  her  little  pencil  legs  scribbling  this  way  and  that,  in  search  of  the  shawl;  the  pencils  fal-  tered  at  the  barracks  opening,  where  the  light  began.  Rosa  saw  and  pursued.  But  already  Magda  was  in  the  square  outside  the  barracks,  in  the  jolly  light.  It  was  the  roll-call  arena.  Every  morn-  ing  Rosa  had  to  conceal  Magda  under  the  shawl  against  awall  of  the  bar-  racks  and  go  out  and  stand  in  the  arena  with  Stella  and  hundreds  of  others,  sometimes  for  hours,  and  Magda,  de-  serted,  was  quiet  under  the  shawl,  sucking  on  her  corner.  Every  day  Magda  was  silent,  and  so  shedid  not  die.  Rosa  saw  that  today  Magda  was  going  to  die,  and  at  the  same  time  a  fearful  joy  ran  in  Rosa's  two  palms,  her  fingers  were  on  fire,  she  was  astonished,  febrile:  Mag-  da,  in  the  sunlight,  swaying  on  her  pencil  legs,  was  howl-  ing.  Ever  since  the  drying  up  of  Rosa's  nipples,  ever  since  Magda's  last  scream  on  the  road,  Magda  had  been  devoid  of  any  syllable;  Magda  was  a  mute.  Rosa  believed  that  something  had  gone  wrong  with  her  vocal  cords,  with  her  windpipe,  with  the  cave  of  her  larynx;  Magda  was  defective,  without  a  voice;  perhaps  she  was  deaf;  there  might  be  something  amiss  with  her  intelligence;  Magda  was  dumb.  Even  the  laugh  that  came  when  the  ash-stippled  wind  made  a  clown  out  of  Magda's  shawl  was  only  the  air-blown  showing  of  her  teeth.  Even  when  the  lice,  head  lice  and  body  lice,  crazed  her  " b"so  that  she  became  as  wild  as  one  of  the  big  rats  that  plundered  the  barracks  at  daybreak  looking  for  carrion,  she  rubbed  and  scratched  and  kicked  and  bit  and  rolled  without  a  whimper.  But  now  Magda's  mouth  was  spilling  a  long  viscous  rope  of  clamor.  \xc2\xab&quot;Maaaa-&quot;  It  was  the  first  noise  Magda  had  ever  sent  out  from  her  throat  since  the  drying  up  of  Rosa's  nipples.  &quot;Maaaa  ...  aaa!&quot;  Again!  Magda  was  wavering  in  the  perilous  sunlight  of  the  arena,  scrib-  bling  on  such  pitiful  little  bent  shins.  Rosa  saw.  She  saw  that  Magda  was  grieving  for  the  loss  of  her  shawl,  she  saw  that  Magda  was  going  to  die.  A  tide  of  commands  hammered  in  Rosa's  nipples:  Fetch,  get,  bring!  But  she  did  not  know  which  to  go  after  first,  Magda  or  the  shawl.  If  she  jumped  out  into  the  arena  to  snatch  Magda  up,  the  howling  would  not  stop,  because  Magda  would  still  not  have  the  shawl;  but  if  she  ran  back  into  the  barracks  to  find  the  shawl,  and  if  she  found  it,  and  if  she  came  after  Magda  holding  it  and  shaking  it,  then  she  would  get  Magda  back,  Magda  would  put  the  shawl  in  her  mouth  and  turn  dumb  again.  Rosa  entered  the  dark.  It  was  easy  to  discoverthe  shawl.  Stella  was  heaped  under  it,  asleep  in  her  thin  bones.  Rosa  tore  the  shawl  free  and  flew-she  could  fly,  she  was  only  air-  into  the  arena.  The  sunheat  murmured  of  another  life,  of  butterflies  in  sum-  mer.  The  light  was  placid,  mellow.  On  the  other  side  of  the  steel  fence,  far  away,  there  were  green  meadows  speckled  with  dandelions  and  deep-  colored  violets;  beyond  them,  even  farther,  innocent  tiger  lilies,  tall,lift-  ing  their  orange  bonnets.  In  the  bar-  racks  they  spoke  of  &quot;flowers,&quot;  of  &quot;rain&quot;:  excrement,  thick  turd-braids,  and  the  slow  stinking  maroon  water-  fall  that  slunk  down  from  the  upper  bunks,  the  stink  mixed  with  a  bitter  fatty  floating  smoke  that  greased  Rosa's  skin.  She  stood  for  an  instant  at  the  margin  of  the  arena.  Sometimes  the  electricity  inside  the  fence  would  seem  to  hum;  even  Stella  said  it  was  only  an  imagining,  but  Rosa  heard  real  sounds  in  the  wire:  grainy  sad  voices.  The  farther  she  was  from  the  fence,  the  more  clearly  the  voices  crowded  at  her.  The  lamenting  voices  strummed  so  convincingly,  so  passionately,  it  was  im-  possible  to  suspect  them  of  being  phan-  toms.  The  voices  told  her  to  hold  up  the  shawl,  high;  the  voices  told  her  to  shake  it,  to  whip  with  it,  to  unfurl  it  like  a  flag.  Rosa  lifted,  shook,  whipped,  unfurled.  Far  off,  very  far,  Magda  leaned  across  her  air-fed  belly,  reaching  out  with  the  rods  of  her  arms.  She  was  high  up,  elevated,  riding  some-  one's  shoulder.  But  the  shoulder  that  carried  Magda  was  not  coming  toward  Rosa  and  the  shawl,  it  was  drifting  away,  the  speck  of  Magda  was  moving  more  and  more  into  the  smoky  dis-  tance.  Above  the  shouldera  helmet  glinted.  The  light  tapped  the  helmet  and  sparkled  it  into  a  goblet.  Below  the  helmet  a  black  body  like  a  domino  and  a  pair  of  black  boots  hurled  them-  selves  in  the  direction  of  the  electrified  fence.  The  electric  voices  began  to  chatter  wildly.  &quot;Maamaa,  maaamaaa,&quot;  they  all  hummed  together.  How  far  Magda  was  from  Rosa  now,  across  the     -LorRrIE  GoLDENsOHN  whole  square,  past  a  dozen  barracks,  all  the  way  on  the  other  side!  She  was  no  bigger  than  a  moth.  All  at  once  Magda  was  swimming  through  the  air.  The  whole  of  Magda  travelled  through  loftiness.  She  looked  like  a  butterfly  touching  a  silver  vine.  And  the  moment  Magda's  feathered  round  head  and  her  pencil  legs  and  balloonish  belly  and  zigzag  arms  splashed  against  the  fence,  the  steel  voices  went  mad  in  their  growling,  urging  Rosa  to  run  and  run  to  the  spot  where  Magda  had  fallen  from  her  flight  against  the  electrified  fence;  but  of  course  Rosa  did  not  obey  them.  She  only  stood,  because  if  she  ran  they  would  shoot,  and  if  she  tried  to  pick  up  the  sticks  of  Magda's  body  they  would  shoot,  and  if  she  let  the  wolf's  screech  ascending  now  through  the  lad-  der  of  her  skeleton  break  out,  they  would  shoot;  so  she  took  Magda's  shawl  and  filled  her  own  mouth  with  it,  stuffed  it  in  and  stuffed  it  in,  until  she  was  swallowing  up  the  wolf's  screech  and  tasting  the  cinnamon  and  almond  depth  of  Magda's  saliva;  and  Rosa  drank  Magda's  shawl  until  it  dried.   "