 b"AS  an  enormous  new  society  ex-  plodes  in  our  face,  we  find  our-  selves  wondering  if  perhaps  life  as  we  know  it  is  dead.  It  would  be  foolish  to  generalize.  Yet  it  would  be  equally  foolish  not  to  ask,  &quot;Who  is  this  new  type  of  human  being  on  the  historical  scene?&quot;  And  it  would  be  more,  rather  than  less,  fool-  ish  not  to  answer,  &quot;''That's  no  new  type  of  human  being.  That's  ourselves-  ourselves  as  we  shall  be,  when  the  tur-  bulent  forces  of  technological,  socio-  political,  and  psychocultural  change  have  had  their  way  with  us.&quot;  I  call  that  new-ourselves  &quot;Brand-New  Man,&quot;  to  distinguish  his  era  from  previous  historical  eras.  Does  Brand-New  Man  already  walk  among  us?  Do  we  ourselves  qualify  to  &quot;wear  the  insignia&quot;  of  Brand-New  Man?  An  examination  of  Brand-New  Man's  ancestors  will  prove  helpful  in  postponing  these  questions  until  they  may  be  answered  from  the  vantage  point  of  futurological  hindsight.  Orp  Max  HE  era  of  Old  Man  began  with  the  first  humans.  Old  Man  was  principally  provider-mode  conscious.  Hunter  Man  and  Gatherer  Woman  prioritized  food  and  shelter,  maintained  extended  molecular-family  tribes,  and  developed  stone-chip,  basic-metal,  and  one-time-only-energy-source  technolo-  gies  to  chase  animals,  discover  the  po-  tato,  and  not  have  abundant  leisure  time.  But  Old  Man  had  to  be  taught  that  his  status  as  a  &quot;self-employed  slave&quot;  hindered  the  development  of  human-  ity's  future.  Culture  was  invented  by  Old  Man's  successor  for  precisely  this  purpose.  Max  Max  MAN  Max  was  the  &quot;man&quot;  of  Greek  and  Roman  civilization.  He  spoke  classical  languages  fluently,  con-  versed  with  poets,  and  hewed  timeless  stone  likenesses  of  himself  and  his  wife  for  history  to  ponder.  With  the  advent  of  Man  Man,  labor  at  last  became  &quot;fear-intensive&quot;-i.e.,  work  was  no  longer  activity  performed  to  prolong  life  but,  rather,  activity  performed  to  avoid  losing  life.  The  origins  of  such  modern  institutions  as  weekly  piano  lessons  and  thejob  interview  can  be  seen  in  the  ancient  Roman  practice  of  conquering  and  subjugating  inferior  peoples.  Man  Man  lasted  well  into  the  Middle  Ages.  But  with  the  invention  of  the  movable  printing  press,  printers  and  typographers-until  then  able  to  publish  in  only  one  location-became  &quot;journeymen,&quot;  pushing  or  dragging  their  presses  from  town  to  town,  es-  tablishing  the  written  word  as  the  world's  quietest  form  of  communica-  tion,  and  laying  the  basis  for  the  de-  velopment  of  our  present-day  futurist  writings.  Those  early  readers  with  suf-  ficient  prescience  to  buy  and  appreciate  such  works  were  the  first  New  Man  men.  NewMax  NEW  Max  is  post-Man  Man  man  as  we  have  known  him  until  the  present.  He  is  also  Industrial  Man.  The  In-  dustrial  Revolution-with  its  violent  overthrow  of  the  despotic  forces  of  ag-  riculture,  its  well-documented  sacking  of  barns  and  silos,  and  its  often  brutal  execution  of  farmers  and  milkmaids--  gave  rise  to  the  prestige  of  the  fac-  tory.  This  in  turn  led  toward,  not  away  from,  modern  ideas-such  as  the  philosophical  notion  that  &quot;God  is  fired&quot;-and  to  the  popularity  of  team  sports.  New  Man  replaced  Man  Man's  symbolic  demonstration  of  the  power-  lessness  of  the  individual,  the  Olympic  Games,  with  the  National  Football  League,  an  even  more  symbolic  repre-  sentation  of  the  inherent  profitability  of  the  team.  In  fact,  all  of  human  history  may  be  viewed  as  that  process  through  which  basic  human  needs  are  fulfilled  by  a  succession  of  new  and  improved  prod-  ucts  and  transactions.  For  example,  the  fundamental  human  desireto  pur-  " b"chase  goods  and  services  takes  many  forms.  Man  Man  was  also  Cash  Man,  buying  his  favorite  food,  clothing,  and  shelter  with  money  in  the  form  of  &quot;paper  money&quot;  and  &quot;change.&quot;  New  Man  is  Check  Man;  all  of  us  are  familiar  with  the  activity  of  writing  a  check,  and  often  forget  that  the  check  is  not  money  itself  but  a  picture  of  money.  New  Man,  as  a  matter  of  course,  pays  cash  forthe  purchase  of  a  leather  checkbook  holder  for  attrac-  tively  and  safely  containing  the  very  checks  with  which  he  will  withdraw  cash  from  his  checking  account.  Such  a  transaction  is  a  New  Man  trans-  action,  However,  Brand-New  Man  will  pay  more,  not  less,  for  the  checkbook  holder,  and  he  will  pay  for  it  with  a  credit  card.  Branp-NEew  Max  BRAND-NEW  Max,  not  yet  recog-  nized  for  who  he  is,  has  arrived.  We  cannot  tell  him  we  are  not  &quot;ready&quot;  and  ask  him  to  come  back  later.  In-  deed,  it  is  we  who  are  not  ready.  It  is  we  who  must  come  back  later.  Brand-New  Man  is  not  merely  &quot;new,&quot;  as  a  new-model  Chevrolet  is  new.  He  is  new  to  the  very  brand  lev-  el;  no  longer  are  human  beings  to  be  produced  by  General  Motors,  Ford,  Chrysler,  and  the  familiar  foreign  companies.  Suddenly  an  entirely  new  production  entity  commands  our  at-  tention-one  with  its  own  distinctive  model  name,  logo,  slogan,  and  jingle.  For  this  is  a  Man  different  from  all  other  Mans.  Traditionally,  human  beings  were  ranked,  in  the  eyes  of  others,  according  to  two  criteria:  by  what  they  owned,  and  by  what  they  planned  to  own.  But  Brand-New  Man  insists  on  being  judged  not  by  what  he  owns  or  even  plans  to  own  but  by  what  he  claims  to  own.  Advances  in  microcircuitry,  coupled  with  improved  home-computer  technology  and  increasing  unemploy-  ment,  suggest  that  in  the  near  future  more  and  more  time  will  be  spent  in  direct  two-way  communication  with  one's  friends  and  relatives,  exchang-  ing  various  claims  to  ownership  of  an  ever-increasing  range  of  consumer  goods.  Paradoxically,  even  as  he  spurs  the  development  of  these  new  and  claim-  able  goods,  Brand-New  Man  is  simul-  taneously  rejecting  traditional  goods  in  favor  ofa  hardier,  more  self-reli-  ant  life  style.  Millions  of  people  are  al-  ready  opening  their  own  garage  doors,  answering  their  own  telephones,  and  drying  their  hair  via  solar  energy  or  natural  con  vection-evaporation  proc-  esses.  Brand-New  Man  prioritizes  change.  An  example  of  this  can  be  seen  in  the  current  vogue  for  uniqueness.  Accord-  ing  to  a  recent  poll,  millions  of  people  place  a  high  value  on  the  uniqueness  of  their  identity.  But  there  are  those  on  whom  the  secret  contradiction  of  this  fact  is  not  lost.  For  if  so  many  people  prize  their  uniqueness,  then  uniqueness  itself  is  commonplace.  'These  people  are  a  subsect  of  Brand-New  Man.  I  call  them  men.&quot;  Brand-New  Man,  therefore,  is  cre-  ating  a  world  in  which  no  simple  for-  mula  for  living  will  be  required.  In-  deed,  millions  of  young  people  are  already  finding  it  impossible  to  memo-  rize  any  formula,  even  in  such  tra-  ditional  disciplines  as  chemistry  and  physics.  Yet  society  is  too  busy  to  penalize  them  for  this,  for  society  is  in  flux.  For  example,  a  recent  article  by  an  engineer  in  a  magazine  somewhere  has  suggested  that  as  gasoline  prices  stabi-  lize  and  the  cost  of  communications  technology  remains  the  same,  millions  of  people  will  soon  drive  to  work  on  telephones.  We  are  entering  an  era  in  which  life  will  be  all  but  unrecognizable  to  an  Old  Man.  To  create  a  world  in  which  one's  forebears  would  be  lost,  confused,  and  terrified-that  is  the  meaning  of  progress. "