 b"WITH great  joy  I  record  herein  that  the  ink  is  now  drying  upon  the  fair  copy  of  my  final  page-&quot;And  I  only  am  escaped  to  tell  thee&quot;-and  that  presently  I  shall  pack  up  the  manuscript  entire  and  sally  out  to  the  Pittsfield  post  office,  whence  my  book  journeys  to  the  good  city  of  old  Manhatto  &amp;  the  offices  of  one  Mr.  Craighead,  my  esteemed  publisher!  This  portrait  upon  which  I  have  so  long  labored  will,  I  warrant,  hit  the  mark  with  some  degree  of  exactness.  Mr.  C.  has  promised  to  remit  payment  promptly  upon  receipt  of  the  manu-  script,  as  ours  is  a  standard  agreement  and  he  is  aware  thatI  have  no  money  in  my  purse.  What  delight  &amp;  satis-  faction  to  earn  one's  bread  thus-and  more  books  are  soon  to  flower,  as  I  have  set  down  only  a  trillionth  part  of  what  I  wish  to  write!  Jury  23  A  letter  from  Mr.  Craighead  pro-  claims  his  enthusiasm-&quot;Let  us  enjoy  a  midday  repast  together&quot;-and  notes  that  he  has  given  the  manuscript  over  to  his  attorney-at-law,  a  Mr.  Duncan.  Perhaps  Mr.  D.  is  a  lover  of  sea  ro-  mances.  No  cheque  enclosed-thanks  due,,  most  likely,  to  a  forgetful  subal-  tern.  However,  my  wife  has  persuaded  various  ofthe  town  merchants  of  my  imminent  success,  thus  securing  a  tem-  porary  furtherance  of  credit.  Jury  30  A  missive  from  Mr.  Duncan,  Esq.,  informing  me  that  in  light  of  a  recent  decision  of  our  nation's  great  Supreme  Court,  a  decision  whose  result  is  that  the  most  fictitious  of  fiction  may  now  be  considered  defamatory,  my  manu-  script  must  undergo  &quot;a  fewemenda-  tions.&quot;  He  has  engaged  a  clerk  for  the  purpose  of  discovering  amongst  my  words  those  few  which  may  be  deemed  libellous.  Wrote  Mr.  Craighead  inquiring  whither  my  cheque.  Some  trouble  with  eyestrain,  as  I  have  pawned  my  pince-  nez.  Aucust  12  Have  been  forced  to  conceal  my  person  in  the  cellar  to-day,  as  creditors  have  begun  to  call  at  all  hours  &amp;  I  would  fain  not  greet  them  empty-  handed.  But  from  Craighead  the  news  that  I  have  only  to  set  forth  the  requi-  site  changes  &amp;  all  contingencies  of  the  case  shall  be  met,  etc.,  etc.,  &amp;  a  cheque  dispatched  by  the  verynext  post.  From  the  diligent  clerkof  the  firm  of  Duncan,  Esq.,  comes  a  citation  of  several  items.  Quite  by  coincidence,  there  is,  it  seems,  arather  litigious  re-  tired  seaman  named  Ismail  Tarbosch  now  living  on  Nantucket.  At  the  clerk's  behest,  I  am  to  change  my  nar-  rator's  name  to  &quot;Ralph.&quot;  Made  this  correction  throughout  my  copy  today.  Auvousr  20  No  fewer  than  four  innkeepers  named  Coffin  in  various  New  England  whal-  ing  ports  will  be  able  to  show  severe  damage  to  their  livelihoods  if  my  de-  scription  of  the  be-smoked  &amp;  dilapidated  Spouter-Inn  is  published,  and  thus  Duncan  bids  me  alter  the  location  of  same  to  &quot;St.  Petersburg.&quot;  Have  writ-  ten  Craighead:  &quot;Your  Mr.  Duncan  is  a  madman;  I  know  nothing  of  the  Russian  whale  fishery.&quot;  Auocusr  22  A  billet  from  Craighead:  &quot;Enamored  of  your  new  opening.  Let  us  break  bread  together  posthaste.&quot;  He  courte-  ously  warns  that  if  my  alterations  are  not  received  immediately,  publication  will  have  to  be  postponed.  Auousr  29  Clarification  from  Duncan:  &quot;I  meant  St.  Petersburg,  Florida.&quot;  Aucusr  30  Misgivings  have  begun  to  obtrude  upon  my  usually  undistrustful  good  na-  ture.  News  has  reached  me  that  the  singular  &quot;Khan  of  the  plank,&quot;  on  whom  I  modelled  my  Captain,  is  not  only  still  breathing  but  his  son-in-law,  a  barrister,  has  seen  fit  to  pay  a  call  on  Mr.  Craighead.  I  have  assured  C.  &amp;  Duncan  that  the  personage  in  my  ro-  mance  bears  naught  but  a  purely  fanciful  resemblance  to  that  overbear-  ing,  willful  monomaniac.  Meanwhile,  I  am  told  by  the  ever-  industrious  law  clerk  that  there  are  ac-  tual  craft  afloat  named  the  Piqued,  the     31  Piquet,  &amp;  the  Hon.  P.  Codd,  &amp;  that  their  lineaments  conform  too  closely  to  those  ascribed  to  my  own  noble,  melan-  choly  vessel.  Thus,  the  commerce  of  these  ships  might  well  be  injured  if  a  prospective  investor  were  to  attribute  to  them  what  the  clerk  calls  the  &quot;shod-  dy  manufacture  &amp;  maintenance&quot;  of  my  creation.  He  has  acquired  an  assistant,  who  adds  a  postscript:  &quot;Why  not  change  it  to  the  Peapod?  No  seagoing  ships  registered  in  that  name.&quot;  Again  have  I  petitioned  Craighead  for  an  advance  on  the  moniesdue  me,  but  thus  far  have  received  no  reply.  'Tis  enough  to  drive  a  nervous  man  to  distraction.  SeprEmMBER  12  Forcefully  worded  briefs  from  Messrs.  Craighead  &amp;  Duncan:  Under  no  circumstances  may  my  moody,  stricken  Captain  be  portrayed  as  an  adult  male  with  a  peg  leg  carved  from  the  jawbone  of  a  whale.  Furthermore,  I  am  to  eschew  all  mention  of  his  ori-  gins,  his  relations,  his  idiosyncrasies,  &amp;  his  profession,  and  am  particularly  enjoined  from  reporting  that  he  has  &quot;been  in  colleges,  as  well  as  'mong  cannibals.&quot;  Nothing  will  content  these  pettifog-  gers  but  that  I  chase  to  the  extremest  limit.  I  am  resigned:  there  is  naught  for  it  but  to  undertake  a  complete  re-  vision.  Craighead  adds  that  I  must  certainly  join  him  for  &quot;a  small  libation  upon  settlement  of  these  trivial  considera-  tions.&quot;  My  everlastingly  patient  wife  has  been  forced  to  sell  her  fichu.  SEerprEmBER  28  With  dolorous  industry  and  weak-  ening  eyesight,  I  continue  my  toilsome  pen  labor  in  this  dank  cellar,  attempt-  ing  to  console  myself  with  the  pros-  pect  of  rapidly  completing  the  revision  and  collecting  payment,  though  my  letters  to  Craighead  go  unacknowl-  edged.  Octroser  12  Letter  from  Duncan's  indefatigable  lackey:  &quot;My  dear  sir,  there  is  no  small  number  of  whaling  seamen  in  the  American  whale  fishery,  and  in  addi-  tion  there  is  a  vaster  number  of  rela-  tives  of  deceased  whalemen,  so  that  I  am  compelled  to  advise  you  that  in  order  to  avoid  a  suit  by  an  entire  class  of  nautical  persons,  you  must  eliminate  from  your  text  the  first,  second,  and  third  mates,  as  well  as  all  the  har-  pooners,  foreign-born  and  otherwise.  Our  best  protection  would  be  for  you  to  delete  references  to  the  crew  alto-  " b"gether  and  set  the  adventure  at  a  con-  siderable  remove  from  any  seagoing  population.&quot;  OcroseEr  30  Toiling  nigh  twenty-two  hours  out  of  the  twenty-four  for  two  weeks  entire,  I  have  succeeded  in  rewrit-  ing  nearly  half  my  book.  I  mean  to  give  the  truth  of  the  thing,  in  spite  of  all.  My  dear  wife  had  to  sell  cordwood  she  had  split  for  our  winter's  supply.  But  if  I  continue  at  this  rate  Ishall  write  &quot;FINIS&quot;  before  the  first  snowfall  and  thereupon  receive  my  &quot;ounce  of  gold.&quot;  NovEMEBER  5  Duncan's  lascar  has  hired  him  a  sec-  ond  myrmidon  who  apprises  me  of  a  new  discovery:  &quot;Most  passages  of  dialogue  are  clearly  actionable.  Please  remove  or  put  into  Scottish  dialect.&quot;  This  much  shallI  oblige  and  no  more.  I  have  made  a  multitude  of  conces-  sions  to  these  scurvy  oakum-pickers.  But  never,  never,  never  shall  I  aban-  don  my  great  white  whale.  Thank  God  cetaceans  are  unschooled  in  mat-  ters  of  the  law.  To-day  we  burned  the  anti-macas-  sarsto  keep  warm.  January  25,  1851  Near  to  dawn,  with  trembling  hand,  I  scrawled  the  final  lines.  &quot;And  I  only  am  escaped  to  allege  to  thee.&quot;  I  now  prepare  to  leave  the  cellar  &amp;  trudge  through  the  high  drifts  to  the  post  office  with  this  many-paged  tribula-  tion.  My  wife  has  hired  herself  out  as  a  bootblack.  But  with  the  cheque  soon  to  be  in  the  post,  our  miserable  plight  shall  end  forthwith.  Marce  23  From  Craighead  not  a  word.  My  book  has  disappeared  into  the  maw  of  Babylonish  New-York  without  a  trace.  Perhaps  the  postal  service  has  ceased  to  function.  I  am  wearied  by  the  long  delay  &amp;  wasting  anxieties.  AprIL  6  I  have  taken  employ  in  a  Pittsfield  hassock  factory  making  tucks  in  che-  nille  upholstery.  Junr  10  At  last  a  response  from  Craighead-  or,  to  be  accurate,  from  an  assistant  clerk,  one  Miss  Radcliffe:  &quot;While  there  are  many  interesting  things  in  your  ms.,  I  am  sorry  to  report  that  we  felt  that  the  story  of  a  neurasthenic  youth  with  water  on  the  knee  who  pursues  a  white  whale  over  the  Great  Salt  Lake  in  a  rowboat  whilst  solilo-  quizing  in  Scottish  dialect  would  prob-  ably  appeal  to  but  a  few.  And  I  might  add,  if  you  will  be  kind  enough  to  pardon  my  being  so  forward  and  forth-  right,  that  your  style  is  altogether  too  agitated  and  bombastic  for  my  taste.  I  have  taken  the  liberty  of  enclosing  a  copy  of  the  Reverend  Beeton  Brace-  well  Hooke's  Views  of  Certain  Rec-  tories  and  Manses  in  Middle  Devon'-  a  most  serene  and  exemplary  text.  Mr.  Craighead  has  instructed  me  to  say  that  he  would  like  to  offer  you  some  token  payment  but  that  the  Hester  Prang  case  has  nearly  bankrupted  him  and  hehas  been  forced  to  bring  suit  against  you  to  recover  those  legal  fees  incurred  on  your  behalf.&quot;  Fortunately,  I  have  been  promoted  to  the  job  of  second  foreman  at  the  hassock  factory.  'Tis  a  job  of  great,  simple-hearted  charm:  only  eighteen  hours  per  day,  with  Sundays  my  own,  &amp;  being  paid-what  can  compare  with  that?  I  now  close  this  journal  &amp;  set  aside  my  pen  forever. "