 b"A VICIOUS  oil  spill  at  Berg-  A  dorf's  has  ruined  hundreds  of  pretty  items.  Swirling  up  at  a  rate  of  one  thousand  gallons  a  minute,  the  oil  has  ruined  several  slit-to-the-  waist  dresses  in  a  silk  cr\xc3\xa9pe  de  Chine  that  shimmers  like  a  wicked  smile  in  peach,  auburn,  dusky  blue,  and  lemp.  Attempts  to  cap  the  spill-the  standby  crew  in  painters'  pants  (tied  at  the  ankle),  Pure-As-Su\xc3\xa9de  tool  holders,  construction  caps,  and  red-red  gog-  gles-failed  utterly,  sending  streams  of  thick  crude  into  eyes,  ears,  mouths,  everywhere,  soiling  everything,  leaving  a  thick-thick  residue  on  lips  and  finger-  tips.  The  secondary  effects  are  just  be-  ginning  to  be  felt.  Horrid  oil  balls,  clumping  together  in  several  large  masses,  have  moved  up  stairwells,  emergency  chutes,  and  steamways,  to  upper  floors  heretofore  judged  impervi-  ous  to  spills  and  mishaps,  frustrating  all  attempts  to  preserve  from  damage  hun-  dreds  of  the  prettiest  possible  snakeskin  bags-clutch,  over-the-shoulder  on  a  whisper  of  a  string,  attached  by  thongs  to  wrist  or  belt,  or  tied  about  the  neck.  Refreshing!  Many  things  have  been  tried,  natu-  rally.  Real  oil  riggers  have  set  about  to  drill'a  relief  hole,  but  they  can't  seem  to  get  the  hang  of  it.  In  fact,  inside  sources  who  nearly  always  know  the  scoopclaim  that  the  relief  well  is  now  gushing  tensof  thousands  of  gallons  more  of  the  rich,  expensive  crude  over  the  new  Laudanum  Collection  of  anti-  bacterial  facial  formulas,  including  Stripped  Mask,  Under-Glaze  Country  Bronzing  Creme,  and  Laudanum  Laurel,  Laudanum  Landscape,  and  Laudanum  Lavalier  unscented  pure-as-  pure  moisturizing  facilitators  for  regu-  lar,oily,  and  dry  complexions.  Some  of  the  oil  riggers  have  gone  back  to  the  [REDACTED],  naturally,  but  others  have  come  up  with  a  new-cut  overall,  full  through  the  waist  but  pegging,  pegging  down  the  leg.  Flattering!  OME  of  New  York's  top-top  party  people  have  tried  to  be  helpful-  organizing  little  teas,  sending  in  relief  crews,  planning  out  mop-up  operations,  etc.  Most  just  peek  in,  but  one  or  two  real  friends  won't  leave  the  scene.  Mrs.  Freddy  Boots,  for  instance,  hasn't  had  a  bath  for  days,  won't  change  her  slicker-smock,  plunges  in  time  after  time  in  a  reckless  attempt  to  save  some  of  the  fabulous  gabardine,  which  has  really  been  completely  ruined  by  the  oil.  Mrs.  Boots  takes  each  retrieved  oily     item  and  conducts  an  elaborate  ritual,  using  enthusiastic  young  volunteers.  First,  eachitem  is  soaked  in  a  harsh-  almost  unbearably  harsh-acid  bath  to  remove  the  oil  from  within  the  fine-  weave  gabardine.  Then  Mrs.  Boots  very  quickly  transfers  the  cloth-before  it  hasa  chance  to  utterly  disintegrate  in  the  harsh-harsh  bath-into  a  soothing  moisture-full  solution  of  entirely  natu-  ral  ingredients:  cool-as-silk  mixtures  of  precious  cress,  dill,  avocado,  and  aru-  gula,  for  instance,  undercut  with  just  a  tang  of  lemon  to  keep  the  vegetable  matter  from  actually  penetrating  into  the  cloth  fibre  and  rotting  there.  De-  spite  her  best  efforts,  this  regimen  hasn't  worked  out  yet-the  gabardine,  horribly  weakened  by  the  acid  bath,  tends  to  blotch  and  then  clump  in  the  vegetable  moistures-but  Mrs.  Boots  won't  give  up,  and  she  plunges  in  again  and  again,  actually  diving  under  the  oil,  where  you  can't  geta  breath  and  where  the  terrible,  powerful  currents  set  in  motion  by  the  flow  of  oil  can  suck  you  deep  under  in  a  minute  or,  worse  still,  send  you  spinning  up  into  one  of  the  powerful  jets  of  salt  water  that  completely  inept  temporary  work-  ers  (many  of  them  would-be  buyers,  assistant  buyers,  and  stylists)  direct  here  and  there  almost  at  random  in  an  attempt  to  reduce  the  viscosity.  Only  the  top-top  party  people  un-  derstand.  &quot;It's  fabulous  fabric,&quot;  a  child  said-  a  child  who  is  even  now  much  more  popular  and  social  than  many  mature  people.  &quot;We  may  never  see  gabardine  likethis  again.&quot;"