 b"I SPEAK  of  George  Wooley,  my  friend.  Wooley  the  watchful.  Wooley  the  wily.  Wooley  the  warm.  I  speak  of  him  because  he  is  dead.  The  world  never  knew  him,  never  gave  him  a  chance,  and  he  passed  unacknowledged  into  his  grave.  Wooley  was  a  dashing  figure-a  sportsman,  an  inventor  of  games,  a  poet,  a  tireless  lover.  He  moved  with  the  ease  of  the  famous-as  if  a  red  carpet  were  unrolling  perpetually  be-  fore  him.  He  wore  tailored  tweed  jack-  ets,  faded  cotton  shirts,  Italian  cor-  duroy  pants,  Justin  boots.  His  wavy  hair,  which  he  combed  straight  back,  was  sandy-colored  and  matched  his  eyes.  Women  adored  him,  but  not  for  long,  He  always  moved  on.  He  was  Wooley  the  wild  to  some.  Wooley  the  weird  to  others.  To  me  he  was  Wooley  the  wonder.  It  is  the  shadow  of  Wooley's  voice  that  you  hear  in  mine.  I  was  nothing  until  I  met  Wooley;  I  remember  his  words  when  he  described  his  43616e616461Mountain  retreat  to  some  dinner  guests  one  night.  He  looked  up  to  the  ceiling.  His  hands  were  before  him  as  if  he  were  holding  an  invisible  basketball.  And  he  began:  &quot;''There  you  would  see  cloud  towers,  floating  bushes  of  shade,  great  scoops  of  vapor,  milky  mountains  of  air,  blouses  blown  up  and  away,  buttocks  adrift,  bleached  wigs,  pow-  dery  potatoes,  albino  clods,  blurred  faces  of  everybody  you  ever  knew,  all  the  paraphernalia  of  sleep-eiderdowns,  pillows,  and  nimble  sheep-strung  along  high  winds,  hissing  their  long,  unfinished  histories,  passing  from  east  to  west  day  after  day,  with  monotonous  comic  appeal  and  mysterious  pomp,  over  hot,  haze-filled  cities.  ...&quot;  I  tell  you  he  was  out  of  sight!  When  he  fin-  ished,  there  was  silence  except  for  me,  his  old  friend,  who  began  to  weep.  It  was  not  only  the  beauty  of  his  speech  but  the  odor  of  Gorgonzola  sauce  ris-  ing  from  the  gnocchi  on  my  plate  that  undid  me.  Unparalleled,  heavenly  in-  congruity  !  Compared  with  Wooley's,  the  lives  of  all  my  other  friends  seemed  aimless.  They  complained  of  boredom.  An  ex-  cess  of  afternoons,  Wooley  would  have  said.  Tom  and  Harriet,  Pete  and  Greeny,  Phil,  Floss,  Willis,  Milly-the  whole  gang,  they  never  understood  him.  They  were  shocked  when  he  chal-  lenged  Monty  Bianco,  the  tennis  star,  to  a  match  at  the  field  club.  They  were  concerned  when  an  ambulance  pulled  up  at  courtside  and  a  heavy-  ily  bandaged,  wobbling  Wooley  was  helped  to  the  court,  with  racquet  in  hand.  When  Monty  saw  him,  his  eyes  bulged  in  disbelief.  He  didn't  know  what  to  do  until  Wooley,  his  voice  cracking  with  anguish,  told  him  to  serve.  Monty  served  three  double  faults.  On  the  fourth  point  Wooley  re-  turned  Monty's  first  service  but  re-  leased  a  scream  of  such  hideous  magni-  tude  that  if  an  elephant  with  a  human  voice  had  watched  its  children  slaugh-  tered  it  would  not  have  sounded  as  pained.  Monty  was  stunned  and  missed  his  shot.  At  this  moment  the  hired  ambulance  driver  and  attendant  rushed  out  to  help  the  brave  Wooley  back  into  the  ambulance.  What  a  breath  of  fresh  air  his  humor  was!  Wooley  was  a  fabulous  inventor  of  games,  but  they  were  often  misunder-  stood.  Death,  his  greatest,  was  prob-  ably  ahead  of  its  time.  It  was  played  on  a  Monopoly-like  board,  and  each  play-  er  picked  at  random  a  card  telling  him  what  disease  he  would  have  for  the  duration  of  the  game.  The  object  was  to  avert  death  as  long  as  possible,  and  the  winner  was  the  one  who  outlived  the  others.  Wooley,  why  did  you  have  to  die!  He  loved  children  especially.  The  dolls  he  invented  for  them-beautiful  dolls-could  never  be  marketed.  They  came  in  little  sickbeds  or  in  wheel-  chairs,  and,  reversing  the  usual  fate  of  dolls,  were  programmed  to  get  well  or  to  walk  again  if  given  love  and  encouragement.  Some  would  re-  ward  the  child  with  heartfelt  utterances  like  &quot;I  can  walk!  I  can  walk!&quot;  or  &quot;I  can  see!  I  can  see!&quot;  Oh,  shortsighted  parents!  If  only  you  had  known  him!  43  I  remember  asking  him  about  the  days  when  he  was  in  love  with  Isa-  bel  Bell  and  his  saying,  &quot;That  was  another  season  of  the  year-a  vague  indefinable  season,  whose  trees  were  neither  with  leaves  nor  without,  whose  air  was  neither  warm  nor  cold.  I  have  no  memory  of  the  days  or  of  the  time.&quot;  Not  a  mean  word  about  Isabel,  who  left  him  for  the  flashy  Monty  Bianco.  How  considerate,  how  selfless.  When  I  asked  him  how  he  felt  after  his  father  cut  him  off  without  a  penny,  he  said,  &quot;I  would  go  out  under  the  stars  and  enter  the  smallness  of  being  that  was  mine,  and  I  would  disappear  into  the  emptiness  within,  and  it  seemed  enormous.&quot;  Again  there  was  no  anger.  Once,  while  we  were  swimming,  I  asked  him  if  things  came  easily  to  him.  He  said,  &quot;I  see  the  world  through  a  small  eye,  an  eye  so  small  the  world  does  not  notice.&quot;  I  was  so  moved  by  his  answer  I  almost  drowned.  But  it  was  Wooley  who  drowned,  a  few  years  later,  while  skating  with  Milly  and  Pete  and  Greeny  and  Floss  and  me.  We  were  out  on  the  lake  at  night,  standing  around  a  fire,  smoking  cigarettes,  listening  to  Wooley  tell  us  about  the  dark  towns  of  Central  Eu-  rope,  each  with  its  own  muddy  main  street  over  which  chickens  strutted  aimlessly.  Suddenly  he  skated  away  over  the  endless  black  pane  of  ice.  None  of  us  followed  him.  Under  the  stillness  of  the  night  sky,  we  stood  to-  gether,  a  shivering,  frightened  little  group,  and  through  the  cold  dark  flew  the  sound  of  our  voices  calling,  &quot;Wooley,  Wooley,  Wooley!&quot; "