 b' ...  there  are  three  aspects  of  the  Presidential  campaign:  one,  what  a  candidate  thinks  about  the  issues  ...  ;  two,  what  [he]  has  to  say  about  what  he  would  do  for  the  country  ...  ;  three,  what  makes  him  tick.-Senator  Howard  Baker.  Jonn  ANDERSON  In  theory,  propulsion  is  effected  by  droplets  of  condensed  vapor,  which  adhere  to  a  wooden-pole  support  until  their  potential  energy  is  re-  leased,  causing  the  blade  to  cut  the  hairs  close  to  the  follicles.  The  works  are  oiled  daily  with  an  ounce  ofbuttercut  into  pea-size  dots.  Governor  Epmuno  G.  Brown,  Jr.  Tiny  micro-organisms  affixed  to  the  host  go  busily  about  their  job  of  de-  composition.  The  nitrogen  thus  lib-  erated  is  used  to  flavor  soybeans  and  other  legumes,  which  are  in  turn  re-  cycled  to  the  host  as  an  energy  source.  When  this  system  tempo-  rarilycloses  down,  the  host  can  be  plugged  into  adirect-current  circuit  until  the  next  phase.  Grorcr  Buse:  Momentum,  either  linear  or  rotary,  is  imparted  to  a  claw  hammer  by  the  circulation  of  quantities  of  displaced  libido.  The  containment  vessel  sleeps  six  to  eight.  Presiopent  Jimmimy  CartERrR  The  central  cavity  is  filled  with  natural  uranium,  which  is  constantly  scanned  /&gt;  t  &quot;thows,  &amp;  &amp;  by  a  Zeiss  optical  system.  Random  fluctuations  of  electrons  are  con-  trolled  by  meditation,  and  the  dark  clouds  of  ash  vented  from  the  abyss  are  borne  away  by  high  winds.  The  apparatus  as  a  whole  can  be  swung  in  various  directions,  as  it  swivels  about  its  main  pivot.  Senator  Epnwarp  M.  KEennroyr  Small  sprocket  wheels  pull  the  film  off  the  feed  reel  and  feed  it  to  the  takeup  reel.  In  time,  it  reaches  the  sound  head.  The  device  is  capable  of  transmitting  coded  information,  in  twelve-track  Dolby,  to  surface  facilities  as  far  away  as  forty  feet.  Rracan  The  clockwork  drive,  of  the  type  developed  in  the  first  half  of  the  nineteenth  century,  has  been  granulated  and  introduced  through  a  hopper  into  the  turretof  an  amphibious  combat  vehicle.  For  safety,  the  muzzle  has  been  equipped  with  a  warning  signal.  Engineers  have  not  actually  been  able  to  get  this  model  to  tick  yet,  but  with  proper  maintenance  it  may  be  struck  manually  to  sound  the  quarter  hour.  '