 b"THAT  was  the  year  everybody  went  to  4368696e61  if  they  hadn't  al-  ready  been  there.  All  the  wom-  en  wore  black,  ankle-length  mink  coats  and  the  men  wore  massive  gold  wrist,  watches  with  golden  bands.  Of  course  some  people  didn't  go  anywhere,  but  that's  not  what  I'm  talking  about.  It  was  Saturday  night  and  the  O'Malleys  were  celebrating  their  thirtieth  wed-  ding  anniversary  at  the  Country  Club.  Heavy  snow  was  predicted.  Ellie  had  gone  to  the  coatroom  to  get  her  ankle-  length  mink  coat,  and  when  Howie  shot  his  French  cuff  he  could  see  by  his  eighteen-carat-gold  wristwatch  with  matching  band  that  it  was  twelve  past  one  o'clock  on  Sunday  morning.  Howie  was  in  the  corridor  by  the  open  door  to  the  ballroom,  where  six  or  eight  cou-  ples-no  more-were  performing  what  appeared  to  be  an  illustrated  history  of  ballroom  dancing  in  the  last  fifty  years.  Now,  dancing  at  its  best  can  enthrall  the  bystander,  but  Howie  shared  none  of  the  glee  that  drove  the  dancers.  In-  deed,  Howie  felt  estranged.  The  steps  the  dancers  were  performing-and  they  were  all  working  on  something  different-reminded  him  of  various  historical  crises,  such  as  the  dollar  de-  valuation  in  '71  and  the  fall  of  Poi  Pinchu  and  the  big  ice  storm  in  '74.  Then  Ellie  came  down  the  corridor  in  her  ankle-length  mink  coat  and  took  his  arm  and  they  went  out  to  the  new  Porsche  and  drove  home.  The  snow  was  already  very  heavy.  They  talked  about  the  food  at  the  party.  The  food  had  been  very  good.  The  first  course  was  a  two-pound  lobster,  and  Ellie  ex-  plained  that  Jimmy  Ziegler,  who  ran  the  veterinary  hospital  on  [REDACTED],  had  chartered  a  Cessna  and  flown  to  [REDACTED]  to  get  the  lobsters.  Not  every-  body-not  even  the  O'Malleys-could  afford  to  serve  a  two-pound  lobster  for  a  first  course  without  knowing  a  veteri-  nary  who  was  a  licensed  pilot.  Of  course,  you  wouldn't  buy  anything  but  shellfish  from  a  veterinary.  Of  course,  there  was  nobody  home  but  the  old  dog  when  they  returned,  and  while  Howie  went  into  the  pantry  to  mix  a  nightcap  Ellie  began  to  specu-  late  on  the  fact  that  she  might  have  lost  her  gloves,  Now,  it  was  Howie's  observation  that  Ellie  was  constitution-  ally  repetitious,  a  quality  that  seemed  to  assert  itself  in  all  aspects  of  her  life,  such  as  using  the  signal  lights  on  the  Honda  hatchback  she  did  the  shopping  with,.  For  instance,  if  she  was  going  to  make  a  left  turn  she  would  put  on  the  signal  light  a  mile  or  so  before  she  reached  the  intersection  and  keep  the  light  blinking  (unless  she  was  remind-  ed)  for  a  mile  or  so  after  she  had  made  the  turn.  Howie  thought  of  this  while  he  poured  himself  a  whiskey  in  the  pantry  and  listened  to  her  speculate  on  whether  or  not  she  had  lost  her  gloves.  She  had  worn  her  favorite  gloves.  She  had  worn  a  pair  of  those  gloves  that  she  had  bought  in  Milan  last  year,  or  was  it  the  year  before  last?  They  had  cost  a  shocking  amount  of  money,  although  she  paid  for  them  in  lire  before  the  dol-  lar  fell.  She  had  worn  her  gloves.  She  had  put  them  in  her  handbag.  She  had  put  them  in  the  pocket  of  her  coat.  She  might  have  dropped  them  in  the  car.  Then  Ellie  screamed;  she  really  screamed.  What  she  screamed  was  &quot;I  got  the  wrong  mink  coat!&quot;  Howie  ran  into  the  living  room.  She  was  standing  by  the  sofa,  holding  the  coat,  Then  she  dropped  the  coat  onto  the  floor  and  threw  herself  onto  the  sofa,  weeping.  &quot;Oh,  nobody  cares  any-  more,&quot;  she  sobbed.  &quot;Nobody  cares  any-  more,  Daddy.  There  wasn't  anybody  in  the  coatroom.  At  a  party  like  that,  where  there  must  have  been  fifty  mink  or  sable  coats,  there  ought  to  be  a  law  against  leaving  them  untended.&quot;  &quot;I'm  sorry,  Mummy,&quot;  said  Howie.  He  drank  his  whiskey.  &quot;I  got  the  wrong  mink  coat,&quot;  sobbed  Ellie.  &quot;I'm  not  even  sure  it's  mink.&quot;  She  dried  her  tears  and  lifted  thecoat  from  the  floor,  looking  for  a  label  in  the  lining.  When  she  found  and  read  the  label,  she  dropped  the  coat  once  more.  &quot;Oh,  it's  from  Coving-  ton's,  Daddy,&quot;  she  sobbed.  &quot;That's  a  cut-rate  fur  outlet  in  Jersey.  They've  been  accused  of  selling  the  skins  of  dogs.  They've  been  accused  of  selling  the  skins  of  cats.  Oh,  I  wish  I'd  never  put  on  that  disgusting  coat.  I  knew  something  was  wrong  when  I  put  it  on  at  the  club.  It  didn't  smell  right.  Now  I  feel  as  if  it's  given  me  a  dread-     35  ful  skin  disease.  Oh  Daddy,Daddy,  I  have  a  rash  on  my  neck.&quot;  &quot;T'll  call  the  club,&quot;  said  Howie.  &quot;Perhaps  you'd  better  call  the  hos-  pital,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  think  I'm  going  to  faint.&quot;  &quot;Shall  I  call  the  doctor?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;Oh,  no,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Oh,  no.  I'll  go  on  living.  Just  try  the  club.&quot;  There  is  some  timelessness  in  wait-,  ing  for  a  call,  measured  in  this  case  by  Ellie's  heavy  breathing.  He  was  a  little  drunk  and  sentimental,  but  even  so  he  was  deeply  moved  by  her  grief  and  her  beauty.  &quot;This  is  Howie  Smith,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;We  left  the  club  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour  ago.  My  wifetook  the  wrong  coat.&quot;  &quot;The  wrong  mink  coat,&quot;  Ellie  said.  &quot;I  see,  I  see,&quot;  said  Howie.  &quot;Isn't  there  any  way  you  can  get  to  them?  I  see,  I  see  ...&quot;  He  hung  up.  &quot;That  was  the  watchman  at  the  main  en-  trance,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'They're  not  answer-  ing  the  telephone  at  the  clubhouse.  He  says  that  he  can't  leave  his  post,  because  of  the  heavy  snow.  Put  on  your  coat  and  we'll  go  back.&quot;  &quot;I  am  never,  never  going  to  put  on  that  coat  again,&quot;  said  Ellie,  pointing  to  the  coat  on  the  floor.  &quot;Well,  put  on  some  other  coat,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Put  on  your  seal-dyed  beaver  or  put  on  your  raincoat.&quot;  He  went  to  the  window  and  looked  out  at  the  night.  &quot;You'll  have  to  wear  something  warm,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It  looks  like  [REDACTED]  out  there.&quot;  The  drive  back  was  perilous.  It  was  one  of  those  sudden  falls  of  snow,  and  in  this  case  a  very  dry  snow,  which  packed  and  rutted  swiftly  and  fell  from  the  darkness  with  an  unwonted  boun-  teousness  that  seemed  to  threaten  to  fall  forever  and  ever  and  that  pro-  voked,  even  for  Howie  and  Ellie,  that  universal  dread  of  the  world's  ending.  But  lights  were  still  burning  at  the  club.  Strains  of  music  still  came  from  the  ballroom,  where  the  same  dancers  were  still  performing  their  ceremonial  steps.  &quot;Oh,  my  coat,  my  coat,  my  darling  coat,&quot;  a  woman  exclaimed  when  Ellie  stepped  into  the  club,  carrying  the  false  coat,  the  impostor,  in  her  arms.  &quot;Yours  is  in  the  coatroom,&quot;  she  said  dryly  to  Ellie,  and  then  she  embraced  and  kissed  her  coat,  saying,  &quot;Darling,  oh  my  dar-  ling.&quot;  Ellie  went  to  the  coatroom  and,  while  she  was  not  that  demonstrative,  you  could  see  when  she  took  her  be-  loved  mink  from  the  hanger  that  her  slow  smile  was  the  real  thing,  if  you  knew  anything  about  romantic  love.  They  got  home  safely  through  the  storm. "