 b" IT  is  morning.  What  is  more,  it  is  a   beautiful  morning.  'There  is  a  sparkle  on  everything  and  even  the  dullest  thingsare  shot  with  radi-  ance.  From  my  back  window,  the  bed-  room  window,  I  see  that  the  cats-  those  wise  barometers-are  already  stretched  out  on  the  tiled  roofs,  taking  the  sun  through  their  thick  fur.  From  the  front  window,  if  I  were  to  walk  to  the  next  room,  I  would  no  doubt  see  girls  and  women  going  off  to  work  in  their  sleeveless  dresses,  the  women  carrying  their  cardigans  just  in  case.  And  I  would  probably  note  that  the  pensioners  are  out  that  bit  early  in  search  of  a  shady  seatin  Dove-  house  Green.  It  is  amazing  what  a  steady  sunshinedoes  for  these  blanched  English  souls.  Just  now  I  put  powder  on,  and  the  translucency  that  the  shop  assistant  guaranteed  showed  up  for  the  first  time.  It  is  like  seeing  specks  of  mica  on  a  road.  I  am  reminded  suddenly  of  those  travelling  actresses  who  came  to  our  little  village  in  Ireland  long  ago  and  made  such  an  impression  on  me.  They  were  quite  bedraggled  and  un-  happy  when  in  the  daytime  they  pushed  prams  down  the  seedy  street  that  was  called  Main  Street,  but  at  night  they  were  creatures  endowed  with  glitter-glitter  on  their  faces,  glitter  on  their  bodices,  glitter  in  their  eyes,  possibly  owing  to  nerves  or  maybe  fever.  They  were  transformed  beings.  I  loved  watching  them.  I  luxuriated  in  their  pain  as  they  strode  about  the  stage,  or  halted,  or  flung  themselves  onto  some  velvet-covered  sofa.  Their  characters  were  invariably  ones  that  had  to  endure  pain.  There  was  the  young  flighty  mother  who  abandoned  her  little  son  in  order  to  elope  with  a  rake,  and,  of  course,  when  she  repent-  ed  her  wild  impulse  and  tried  to  come  back  to  her  own  home  her  upright  husband  had  married  her  rival,  who  was  naturally  a  woman  of  steel.  The  mother  was  forced  to  return  disguised  as  a  maid,  and  nurse  her  little  son  but  behave  with  distance,  as  if  they  were  not  of  the  same  blood-as  if  she  had  not  once  intrepidly  carried  him  within  her.  There  was  another,  in  direct  contrast,  who  chose  the  vows  of  chas-  tity,  and  was  kneeling  on  a  little  dais,  haloed  in  white,  taking  those final  and  irreversible  vows  when  her  errant  scoundrel  came  to  claim  her  and  found  that  he  was  too  late!  Yes,  those  ladies  come  to  mind  when  I  pat  the  powder  on  and  look  in  my  long  wardrobe  mirror  and  see  that  the  effect  is  indeed  cheering.  Why  am  I  putting  the  powder  on  so  early,  when  in  fact  I  have  household  chores  to  do  and  when  I  know  that  it  is  best  to  leave  my  skin  untampered  with  through  the  day,  to  let  it  breathe,  while  no  one  is  seeing  me?  Ah,  to  be  seen  is  the  big  nourishment,  the  sop  of  content.  If  only  we  could  go  to  each  other's  houses  and  show  ourselves  to  other  women's  hus-  bands,  or  valets,  or  sons,  or  employ-  ers,  then  we  could  display  ourselves,  come  home,  and  feel  justified.  We  could  feel  that  the  effort  we  put  into  sereneness,  into  smiling,  into  pursing,  into  deportment,  was  not  completely  in  vain.  I  think  of  all  the  women  in  all  the  houses  in  [REDACTED]  at  this  mo-  ment  for  whom  a  visit  would  change  everything,  even  fleetingly,  and  I  think  that  if  I  had  organizing  abilities  I  would  dosomething  about  it.  For  some  reason,  Isee  a  young  woman,  an  Eastern  woman  of  sallow  com-  plexion,  with  her  baby,  and  they  are  placed  in  an  English  garden.  There  are  poppies  sprouting  red  in  the  high  yellow  unmown  grass,  and  I  realize  that  her  baby  tugging  at  her  breast  defers  the  emptiness  that  she  might  otherwise  feel,  and  yet  she  is  being  emptied  and  one  day  her  breasts  will  be  like  discarded  shells.  But  there  is  no  need  for  pessimism.  'This  is  a  spe-  cial  day.  It  is  marked  in  my  diary  with  a  little  asterisk  and  it  says  &quot;pour  diner.&quot;  I  have  already  laid  my  outfit  on  the  bed.  It  is  a  lace  blouse  that  would  not  go  amiss  as  an  altar  cloth.  The  discs  of  thick  cream  lace  are  stitched  loosely  together,  so  that  the  skin  can  beseen  through  the  webbing.  The  skirt  is  also  cream,  with  spatters  of  red  and  violet,  justas  if  one  took  a     41  marking  pen  and  childishly  indented  these  colored  points.  It  is  probable  that  we  will  eat  out-  of-doors.  There  will  be  several  tables  covered  in  white  cloth,  and  the  crystal  goblets  will  be  like  sentinels  at  each  place  setting.  There  will  be  roses  in  special  glass  bowls.  The  bowls  are  high,  like  cake  stands,  and  the  roses  will  be  cut  close  to  their  petals  and  laidin  there  like  confectionery;  if  they  are  pink,  as  indeed  they  may  be,  they  will  be  like  those  iced  sweets  that  I  loved  in  childhood,  and  it  will  not  be  hard  to  re-  capture  that  beautiful  synthetic  almond  taste.  The  lights  will  be  concealed  in  the  foliage,  and  the  smell  will  be  a  blend  of  roses,  honeysuckle,  and  various  ex-  pensive  perfumes.  There  will  perhaps  be  a  summerhouse  or  a  little  gazebo  where  a  couple  will  wander,  appar-  ently  to  study  some  facet  of  its  design  but  really  to  make  an  assignation.  That  will  not  be  him  and  me.  If  he  gives  me  five  minutes  of  his  time  with-  outtaking  a  tweezers  to  my  nervous  system,  I  shall  consider  myself  lucky.  To  be  fair  to  myself,  I  did  not  plan  this  meeting.  'The  opposite.  T'wo  days  ago,  when  I  heard  of  it  from  my  host-  ess,  I  flinched.  She  had  come  here  to  discuss  her  dilemma  with  her  lover  and  her  impatience  withher  paunchy  husband.  Just  as  she  was  leaving,  I  asked  who  were  the  other  guests.  As  soon  as  she  told  me,  I  tried  to  get  out  of  going.  She  said  my  name  sharply.  She  said,  &quot;Anna,&quot;  and  I  could  feel  the  inevitable  rebuke.  She  said,  &quot;Find-  ing  a  woman  at  the  last  minute  is  al-  most  as  difficult  as  finding  a  man.&quot;  Her  nails,  her  eyes,  and  the  heels  of  her  lizard  shoes  were  all  very  pointed,  and  I  was  afraid  to  cross  her.  But  my  heart  did  start  to  gallop.  I  am  envisioning  each  group,  with  the  new  arrivals  like  extras  waiting  for  their  moment  to  be  received,  to  be  in-  troduced,  to  find  excitement  or  shock  in  some  unexpected  face.  Themen  will  all  be  wearing  black  tie,  and  I  pray  that  at  least  two  of  them  will  beper-  sonable.  I  will  need  all  the  discipline  that  I  have  got.  My  lover  is  going  to  be  there.  My  lover's  wife  is  going  to  be  there.  I  have  never  met  her.  That  is  not  quite  true;  I  once  saw  her,  and  so  I  will  recognize  her.  My  eyes  will  land  on  her,  and  rest  on  her,  so  that  she  will  know  that  I  am  not  flinch-  ing,  and  not  turning  " b"away.  She  is  dark.  She  is  dark,  like  the  raven.  At  least  that  is  how  I  remember  her.  It  may  have  been  the  lighting,  in  which  green  was  impregnated  with  blackness.  It  was  in  a  marquee  ata  wedding  and  there  was  a  great  storm  outside,  so  that  the  event  was  marked  by  a  kind  of  menace  thatI  took  to  be  talismanic.  Among  the  guests  I  saw  a  dark  woman  in  a  cape,  but  I  did  not  know  then  to  whom  she  was  attached.  He  and  I  had  just  met  and  we  were  eating  canap\xc3\xa9s  on  which  there  was  a  single  sprig  of  limp  tinned  asparagus.  I  refused  a  second  one,  to  which  he  said,  &quot;You  don't  look  as  if  you  need  to  diet,&quot;  and  then  announced  that  he  was  not  as  thin  as  he  looked,  that  the  hol-  lows  in  his  face  made  him  seem  thinner  than  he  actually  was.  His  face  reminds  me  of  those  stone  effigies  that  decorate  the  ceilings  or  columns  of  a  monastery  or  a  chapel.  It  is  a  graven  face.  In  con-  trast,  our  conversation  was  merry  and  stirring.  &quot;And  you  don't  know  how  lovely  you  are,&quot;  he  said,  half  joking.  The  marquee  was  freezing,  as  there  was  only  one  gas  heater  at  the  far  end,  around  which  the  older  people  had  con-  verged.  It  being  spring,  the  bride  and  groom  naturally  had  anticipated  a  warmer  day.  After  all,  the  daffodils  were  out;  but  the  wind  was  blowing  their  wrinkled  flutes.  Seeing  in  the  dis-  tance  theblue  coronet  of  the  gas  fire,  I  thought  of  baby  chicks  curled  up  next  to  each  other  under  a  lamp,  and  I  had  a  sudden  unaccountable  longing  to  nestle  nearer  to  him,  when  I  saw  that  already  he  had  come  a  few  steps  closer.  Between  us  was  only  a  frac-  tion  of  space,  in  which  I  could  feel  a  shudder.  It  was  getting  to  be  the  mo-  ment  when  the  bride's  father  was  to  make  his  speech,  and  I  realized  who  the  dark  woman  was.  She  came  toward  us  and  said  to  the  man,  &quot;Having  a  good  ti556e6974656420537461746573;  And  at  once  I  moved  away.  Of  course,  it  could  have  been  that  she  trusted  him  so  utterly,  that  they  lived  in  such  an  understanding,  that  they  even  liked  to  share  people  such  as  me,  so  as  to  talk  about  us  after-  ward.  At  any  rate,  on  that  first  occa-  sion  I  could  not  find  words,  or  the  words  I  could  find  would  have  sound-  ed  caustic  or  maybe  even  brazen.  My  future  lover  saw  me  move,  and  came  and  touched  my  elbow  so  lightly  and  so  gracefully  that  I  felt  as  if  a  ghost  had  taken  charge  of  his  body  and  brushed  against  mine,  and  I  thought,  Oh,  Christ,  I  am  falling  in  love  with  a  ghost,  just  as  always,  and  I  saw  in  him  shades  of  others-saw  his  disap-  pearing  tricks,  his  appearing  tricks,  his  inability  to  give  love,  along  with  his  restless  pursuit  of  it.  When  he  touched  me,  it  was  as  if  we  had  met  before,  as  if  we  knew  each  other  in  some  hidden  1980  way  and  the  time  had  now  come  for  us  to  cross  that  barrier  and  to  savor  each  other,  to  cease  to  be  strangers.  Though  of  course  we  would  always  be  stran-  gers.  Is  that  not  theessence,  the  requi-  site,  of  love?  So  I  can  say-because  now  I  am  better  acquainted  with  him-that  my  instinct  was  flawless  and  thatI  could  have  predicted  almost  everything  that  would  happen,  that  has  happened,  and  that  is  yet  to  happen.  Even  as  he  is  asking  to  see  me,  he  is  asking  not  to  see  me;  when  I  am  distant,  he  loves  me  like  a  clinging  schoolboy,  and  when  I  reveal  my  feelings  he  looks  at  his  watch  and  says  he  has  a  meeting  at  four.  Only  my  near-absence  guaran-  tees  his  near-presence,  and  it  is  an  ex-  hausting  game  to  play.  Yet  I  feel  that  if  I  could  reach  him  things  would  be  different.  I  believe  that  he  does  not  know  himself,  and  that  if  I  could  lead  him  to  himself  he  would  dispense  with  all  artifice,  he  would  welcome  this  rap-  ture,  he  would  not  shirk  it.  When  he  is  trying  to  shrug  me  off,  he  eats  hur-  riedly.  He  throws  the  cherries  into  his  mouth  and  gulps  them  down.  He  did  that  the  last  time  he  was  here  to  lunch,  and  in  his  haste  one  fell  onto  his  white  shirt,  which  was  still  open.  &quot;Damn,&quot;  he  said,  as  he  looked  for  it.  It  had  slipped  into  his  belly  button,  and  fitted  there  like  the  stone  of  a  ring,  a  ruby.  It  had  burst.  He  picked  it  out.  It  left  a  red  stain  on  his  shirt.  He  began  to  suck  the  white  fabric.  He  sucked  it  with  such  determination.  I  hated  him  then.  I  thought,  He  is  sucking  it  clean,  so  that  when  he  goes  home  he  will  not  be  asked,  &quot;How  did  that  get  there?&quot;  I  saw  his  ruthlessness  and  I  saw  his  fear.  In  myself  I  saw  stir-  rings  of  pain,  a  dip  into  that  fount  of  sorrow,  a  reintro-  duction  to  a  loss  that  I  thought  I  had  finished  with.  Perhaps  it  was  then  I  hatched  my  revenge.  Sensing  a  coolness,  he  reached  out  for  me  and  drew  me  onto  his  knee,  and  he  said,  &quot;Do  you  fantasize  about  [REDACTED];  and  I  said,  &quot;Yes,&quot;  but  I  was  too  shy  to  say  how.  I  asked  if  he  fantasized  about  me,  and  he  said  yes,  in  the  car,  when  on  his  way  to  see  me,  and  then  he  said  that  T  fantasized  too  much  and  that  it  was  unhealthy.  I  was  about  to  say  thatso  did  he,  when  I  realized  " b"with  staggering  clarity  that  he  was  right  and  that  I  was  misled.  He  only  fantasizes  when  he  is  on  his  way  to  see  me,  when  he  is  assured  of  the  sight  of  me  and  all  that  I  can  give,  whereas  I  spin  fantasies  as  the  hours  go  by,  as  the  sprinkler  in  the  garden  makes  a  damp  circle  around  the  base  of  every  rosebush,  as  the  shadow  on  the  sundial  moves  lower,  and  as  the  floor  that  I  have  polished  gleams  and  has  the  magic  of  a  ballroom  waiting  for  its  waltzers-him  and  me.  TONIGHT,  I  fear  that  he  will  snub  me.  In  fact,  I  know  that  he  is  in  danger  of  snubbing  me  unless  I  am  cunning,  unless  I  pre\xc3\xa9mpt  him  by  giv-  ing  him  a  glacial  look.  That  will  unnerve  him,  make  him  doubt  the  certainty  of  next  week's  luncheon  date.  I  will  look  past  him  at  the  moment  of  being  introduced  to  him,  and  then  I  will  hurry  to  some  other  man,  and  I  know  that  un-  wisely  but  impulsively  he  will  follow  me  and  mutter,  &quot;You're  very  aloof  tonight  and  very  beautiful.&quot;  His  flat-  tery  is  always  undisguised,  and  for  that  reason  it  never  fails  to  thrill  me.  Perhaps  I  see  the  transparency  of  it,  and  flagrant  reason  for  it,  the  truth  and  the  untruth  of  it.  Tonight,  Ishall  guard  myself,  so  that  I  can  carry  out  my  little  scheme.  I  shall  join  the  group  that  his  wife  is  in.  I  know  that  she  will  want  to  talk  to  me.  I  know  that  she  will  detach  herself  from  the  others  and  veer  toward  me,  that  she  will  talk  about  everything  un-  der  the  sun-her  twins,  summer  holi-  days,  their  garden,her  busyness-de-  ferring  what  she  most  wants  to  know,  and  presently  I  will  unnerve  her.  She  will  not  be  sure  whether  her  little  jabs  of  inner  dread  are  validated  or  not.  What  I  have  decided  to  do  is  to  listen  to  her,  to  admire  her  dress  or  her  blouse  or  her  jewelry,  to  admire  any-  thing  that  can  be  admired  without  my  being  obsequious.  I  am  going  to  be  as  soft  and  as  patient  as  a  wet  nurse.  When  she  needs  a  drink,  I  will  be  the  one  to  signal  the  waiter,  and  I  will  down  mine  more  quickly  so  that  our  glasses  can  be  filled,  then  clinked  together.  Even  if  she  thinks  that  I  am  overfriendly,  she  will  not  think  it  by  the  time  I  am  finished,  because  of  my  trump  card.  Naturally,  others  will  come  over  and  interrupt  this  t\xc3\xa9te-a-  tete;  others  will  delay  my  strategy.  Her  husband,  fearing  the  worst,  may  come  over  and  say,  &quot;What  are  you  two  nattering  about?&quot;  or  our  hostess  may  not  allow  two  lovely  women  to  slink  into  a  corner  and  while  away  that  half  hour  when  they  shouldbe  mixing  with  and  delighting  the  men.  I  have  no  doubt  but  that  we  will  be  alone,  because  we  both  want  it.  I  shall  whisper.  I  may  even  touch  her  elbow  or  her  wrist.  I  shall  ask  if  by  any  chance  she  has  smelling  salts  or  a  tran-  quillizer  in  her  bag,  and  once  she  has  appraised  the  question,  and  felt  my  shiver,  she  will  ask  me  why.  I  shall  tell  her  in  all  truth  that  I  doubt  if  I  can  get  through  the  dinner.  Again  she  will  ask  me  why.  She  will  look  at  me,  and  when  I  say,  &quot;The  usual,&quot;  she  will  know  that  my  trouble  is  man  trouble.  I  can  already  see  her  eyes-dark  eyes  becoming  potent  with  curiosity-and  her  blood  will  quicken,  and  it  will  not  be  long  beforeshe  asks  me  who  he  is,  what  he  does,  and  I  will  tell  her  so  much  and  yet  so  little.  I  will  describe  to  her  her  own  husband  and  any  other  woman's  husband,  because  do  they,  do  they,  differ  so  radically,  those  men  in  dark  suits,  white  shirts,  and  tasteful  silk  ties,  who  want  peace  in  their  nests  and  excitement  on  their  forays?  I  will  say  that  he  gives  me  pleasure,  that  he  gives  me  pain,  that  I  never  know  when  to  expect  him  and  when  not,  and  that  I  mean  to  give  him  up  but  I  lack  the  necessary  strength,  the  determina-  tion.  Then  comes  my  coup.  I  will  ask  her  to  have  lunch  with  me  in  my  favorite  restaurant.  I  will  tell  her  that  I  long  to  talk  to  someone  whom  I  don't  know-someone  who  can  help-  and  with  every  word  I  saysuspicion  will  redound  in  her  womb.  She  may  hesitate,  but  she  will  not  refuse  me.  I  will  pin  her  to  a  day,  and  the  sooner  the  better.  Nor  will  he  be  able  to  force  her  to  cancel,  since  that  would  show  him  to  be  implicated,  show  his  culpa-  bility.  I  can  hardly  wait  for  tonight  to  be  over,  so  that  I  can  get  on  with  the  proceedings.  Their  unknown  world  will  gradually  unfold  to  me.  I  may  even  meet  their  twins.  She  and  I  may  become  friends,  or  getting  to  know  him  through  her  I  may  be  cured  of  this  passion,  or  together  we  may  over-  throw  him,  and  send  him  out  into  the  world  stripped  of  his  duplicity.  I  scarcely  know  what  will  happen.  All  I  know  is  that  I  cannot  endure  it  alone,  and  as  they  have  become  part  of  my  life  I  shall  become  part  of  theirs;  our  lives,  you  see,  are  intertwined,  and  if  they  destroy  me  they  cannot  hope  to  be  spared.  "