 b"WHEN  the  talk  at  dinner  is  above  one's  head,  it  is  best  to  remain  silent.  Nothing  is  more  aggr  avati  ng  to  a  group  of  people  well  e  mbarke  d  on  some  subjec  t  in  which  they  are  all  experts  than  a  naive  interjection  that  halts  them  in  mid-  argument,  wrenches  them  down  to  the  level  of  teatime  ch  at,  an  d  demand  s  the  effort  of  an  answer  or  explanatio  n  i  n  tires  omely  lay  terms.  All  the  same,  after  one  has  sat  dumbly  attentive  for  upwards  of  half  an  hour,  swishing  a  brandy  about  in  a  thoughtful  way  and  turning  the  head  politely  from  speaker  to  spea  ker  as  though  w  atching  a  wom-  en'  s  singles  match  at  Wimbledon,  a  kind  of  tensio  n  builds  up  that  has  t  o  find  an  outl  e  t  in  speech.  Ever  y  body  shoul  d  have  som  et  hin  g  to  contribut  e  .  No  one  at  a  dinner  party  wan  ts  to  be  the  man  of  whom  it  is  asked,  as  hats  and  coats  are  collect  ed,  &quot;Who  was  that  dumb  fish  with  th  e  glazed  look  who  kept  squinting  a  t  me  over  his  brandy?&quot;  'There  is  a  time  to  keep  silence,  and  a  time  to  sp  eak  .  Ah,  but  when?  Ecclesiastes  give  s  no  guidance  in  this  matter.  'Three  of  the  men  at  a  sm  all  party  I  have  in  mind  were,  for  want  of  a  better  word,  agriculturalists;  not  small-time  f  arme  rs,  whose  talk  of  winter  wheat  and  three-year  leas  would  have  troubled  me  not  at  all,  but  men  a  t  the  to  p-experimentalists,  breeders  of  livestock  on  a  n  i  ntern  a  tiona  l  scale.  One  of  them  had  just  flown  back  from  the  Argentine.  They  swapped  the  names  and  histories  of  disti  n  guished  animals  with  t  he  freedom  and  unintel-  ligibility  of  soldiers  discussing  old  regi-  mental  messmates.  It  makes  no  odds  to  me,  conversationally,  whether  my  neighbor  at  table  is  say-  ing  &quot;What  happene  d  to  Jock  when  he  left  the  Re  gim  ent  after  Saler-  no  ?&quot;  or  &quot;Talking  of  Herefords,  poor  old  Bunty  White  ca  me  a  sad  cropper  over  Bashan  of  Osterley.&quot;  They  wer  e  technical;  they  w  ere  reminiscent;  they  were  at  ease  with  one  another,  and  at  the  mention  of  a  red  poll  c  alled  Charl  ey  Mag  nus  burst  into  loud  laughter,  in  which  I  joined.  How  I  found  myself  in  such  company  is  nei-  ther  here  nor  there.  I  get  about.  What  is  sur-  prising-or,  at  any  rate,  what  surprised  me  at  the  time-is  that  in  a  momentary  pause  for  brandy-pass-  ing  I  heard  myself  say,  in  the  abrupt  and  angry  tones  that  a  state  of  pro-  longed  suspense  sometimes  produces,  &quot;Why  are  bulls  horns  shorter  than  cows'?&quot;  The  percipient  reader,  familiar  with  his  Boswell,  may  perhaps  be  reminded  of  the  ill-timed  intervention  on  that  April  day  in  1778  when,  at  Mr.  Thrale's  house  in  Streatham,  the  style  of  English  sermons  came  up  for  de-  bate  and  Dr.  Johnson  (who  else?)  weighed  in  with  many  a  distinguished  divine's  name  and  much  trenchant  criticism,  concluding,  in  answer  to  a  question  of  Boswell's  about  eloquence,  &quot;We  have  no  sermons  addressed  to  the  passions,  that  are  good  for  anything;  if  you  mean  that  kind  of  eloquence.&quot;  Whereupon,  writes  Boswell,  &quot;A  C1ER-  G\xc2\xa5yman  (whose  name  I  do  not  recol-  lect):  Were  not  Dodd's  sermons  ad-  dressed  to  the  passions?  Jonson:  'They  were  nothing,  Sir,  be  they  ad-  dressed  to  what  they  may.&quot;  ''The  suddenness  of  it!&quot;  observes  Max  Beerbohm,  who  made  great  play  with  the  incident  in  one  of  his  essays.  &quot;Bang!-and  the  rabbit  that  had  popped  from  its  burrow  was  no  more.&quot;  And  he  adds,  &quot;I  know  not  which  is  the  more  startling-the  d\xc3\xa9but  of  the  un-  fortunate  clergyman,  or  the  instanta-  neousness  of  his  end.&quot;  But  (to  move  on  a  couple  of  centuries)  if  the  percipient  reader  is  expecting  some  comparable  annihilation  in  my  own  case,  he  is  in  for  a  disappointment.  It  is  truethat  my  artless  question  did  certainly  strike  the  company  into  a  kind  of  frozen  immo-  bility;  and  to  me,  as  it  echoed  and  re-  echoed  in  my  head  in  the  unnerving  silence,  it  did  indeed  appear  to  be,  giv-  en  the  circumstances,  perhaps  the  most  footling  query  ever  conceived  by  the  mind  of  man.  One  might  as  well  have  asked  a  gathering  of  nuclear  phys-  icists  whether  it  was  true  that  electrons  went  round  clockwise.  Of  all  the  ques-  tions  I  might  have  put  to  them-ques-  tions  elementary  in  themselves,  no  doubt,  but  still  such  as  a  layman  with  an  inquiring  mind  might  wish  to  have  resolved-why  in  God's  name  should  I  have  to  hit  upon  one  that  a  four-year-old  might  hesitate  to  put  to  his  mother.  &quot;Mummy,  why  ere  bulls  horns.  ..  ?&quot;  But  annihilation,  when  the  silence  was  finally  broken,  there  was  not.  &quot;Are  they?&quot;  my  host  was  asking.  &quot;What  do  you  say,  Tom?&quot;  &quot;Well,  I  was  wondering,&quot;  Tom  said.  &quot;Of  course,  one  can't  generalize,  but  I  should  have  thought-  Bulls'  horns  are  shorter,  you  say?&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Yes,  I  mean  I  just  thought-  Those  I've  seen,  you  know,  looked  to  me  kind  of  shorter  and,  well,  straighter  than  those  long,  curving  things  cows  have.  Or  not,  would  you  Say-P\xe2\x80\x9d  They  said  a  good  deal.  Mulled  the  matter  over  among  themselves.  Thought  it  a  most  intriguing  ...  couldn't  understand  why  they  had  never  ...  must  get  hold  of  old  Hen-  nessy  and  see  what  he  ...  And  so  on.  Kind  to  me  they  were,  and  considerate,  almost  beyond  the  limits  of  endurance.  It  was  like  question  time  at  the  end  of  a  lecture,  when  some  fool  makes  a  to-  tally  irrelevant  comment  and  the  speak-  er  says,  &quot;That's  a  most  interesting  point  you  raise  there,&quot;  and  spends  five  or  ten  minutes  trying  to  make  it  sound  so.  It  was  agony.  I  could  have  done  with  a  Dr.  Johnson  to  finish  me  off-  bang!-rather  than  pur-  sue  this  humiliating  pre-  tense  thatI  (or  they,  pre-  sumably  )  cared  two  straws  about  the  length  of  bulls'  horns.  But  right  at  the  end,  at  the  very  hat-and-  coat  stage  I  had  so  greatly  feared,  one  of  them  was  telling  me  he  would  &quot;do  a  little  research  into  that  theory  of  yours.&quot;  He  did,too.  I  still  have  (all  this  occurred  rather  more  than  twenty-two  years  ago)  the  long  and  courteous  letter  he  wrote  me,  headed  &quot;Are  Bulls'  Horns  Shorter  Than  Cows'?&quot;  and  beginning,  &quot;You  did  indeed  set  me  a  poser!  The  Natural  His-  " b"tory  Museum  said  that  they  had  not  given  the  matter  a  thought.  ..  .&quot;  The  Natural  His-  tory  Museum!  Imagine  that!  My  contemptible  little  interven-  tion,  torn  as  it  was  like  a  shriek-  ing  mandrake  from  the  depths  of  my  despair,  now  tossed  into  the  lap  of  that  vast  haunt  of  stuffed  hippopotami,  dinosaurs'  bones,  birds'  eggs,  and,  for  all  I  knew,  roomsful  of  Nobel  Prize  winners,  who  hadn't  given  the  matter  a  thought.  Where  was  it  all  to  end?  A  paper  read  at  the  next  meeting  of  the  British  As-  sociation  for  the  Advancement  of  Science  on  &quot;Some  Aspects  of  Sexual  Variance  in  Bovine  Cornutation&quot;?  &quot;Knowing,&quot;  my  correspon-  dent  went  on,  still  harping  on  the  Museum,  &quot;that  they  had  pictures  of  British  wild  cattle,  I  got  them  to  have  a  look,  and  they  agreed  that  the  bulls'  horns  seemed  slightly  smaller  than  the  cows'.&quot;  So  far,  so  good.  But  af-  ter  this  sop  to  my  self-esteem  he  proceeded  to  make  certain  points  which  seemed  to  me  to  throw  the  whole  thing  into  the  melting  pot  again;  viz.:  (1)  Bulls  are  wider  in  the  head  and  bigger  all  over,  so  that  the  horns  might  appear  smaller  &quot;to  a  lay  mind.&quot;  (2)  Bulls  are  more  likely  to  be  pictured  in  their  early  years,  when  the  horns  are  smaller,  whereas  a  milch  cow  is  usually  shown  at  her  prime,  when  she  is  older  and  thus  longer  in  the  horn.  (3)  Bulls  are  more  dangerous  and  are  therefore  apt  to  have  the  sharp  points  of  their  horns  cut  off.  He  might  have  added,  I  suppose,  that  bulls  when  charging  are  more  likely  to  be  looked  at  upside  down  through  the  legs,  thus  distorting  the  perspective.  But  he  didn't;  instead,  he  enclosed  some  photographs  &quot;which  may  help  you.&quot;  I  thought  not.  The  only  thing  I  thought  could  help  me  was  a  determi-  nation  never  again  to  put  a  question  in  the  presence  of  experts.  To  this  resolve  I  kept,  within  rea-  son,  for  perhaps  eighteen  years.  I  then  happened  to  meet  a  United  States  Navy  captain  temporarily  in  En-  gland  on  some  assignment  that  seemed  to  call  for  an  assemblage  of  astronomi-  cal  instruments  not  normally  found  in  a  country  home.  I  came  upon  him  one  day  inhis  garden  checking  the  latitude  and  longitude  of  his  house  by  means  of  a  small  raft  in  a  pool  of  oil  and  what  may  well  have  been  a  sextant  or  a  the-  odolite,  or  both.  This  led  naturally  to  a  good  deal  of  talk  about  azimuth,  right  ascension,  the  obliquity  of  the  ecliptic,  and  so  on,  in  which  I  joined  to  the  ex-  tent  of  an  occasional  &quot;I  see&quot;  or  &quot;I  don't  quite  ...&quot;  After  a  bit,  a  question  did  occur  to  me,  but  it  had  nothing  to  do  with  navigation  and  seemed  altogether  too  elementary  for  a  man  who  had  now  launched  himself  upon  the  celestial  aberrations  due  to  procession  and  nuta-  tion  and  was  clearly  enjoying  the  trip.  So  I  said  nothing-for  a  time.  Then  the  old  mad  desire  to  show  some  glim-  mer  of  intelligence-to  exchange,  as  it  were,  some  kind  of  message  between  one  sentient  being  and  another-sud-  denly  swept  over  me.  &quot;Why,&quot;  I  asked,  chopping  off  one  of  his  equinoxes  in  the  most  brutal  way,  &quot;is  the  half-moon  as  seen  from  the  earth  sliced  vertically,  whereas  the  half-earth  seen  from  the  moon  is,  you  might  say,  cut  off  hori-  zontally?&quot;  &quot;How's  that  again?&quot;  he  said.  So  I  had  to  explain  that  when  you  look  at  the  half-moon  its  straight  side,  or  diameter,  runs  up  and  down  at  right  angles  to  the  horizon  but  that  pic-  tures  of  half-earth  taken  from  the  moon,  when  his  compatriots  were  up  there,  always  seemed  to  show  the  straight  edge  running  horizontally.  &quot;Sit,  ting  on  its  equator,  if  you  like,&quot;  I  add-  ed.  There  came  over  this  nice  man's  face  a  look  that  instantly  put  me  in  mind  of  cattle  breeders  and  horns-  a  sort  of  shuttered  look  that  seems  to  say,  &quot;I  don't  believe  that  the  facts,  as  stated,  can  be  true,  but  if  they  are  the  answer  must  be  perfectly  simple.  Only  ...&quot;  What  he  actually  said  was  &quot;Well,  of  course,&quot;  and  then,  after  a  longish  pause,  &quot;I'll  have  to  think  about  it.&quot;  The  sequel  will  scarcely  be  believed.  Nevertheless,  I  shall  trouble  myself  to  set  it  down.  What  happened  was  that  a  few  days  later  the  captain  called  me  up  to  say  that  he  had  the  answer  to  my  little  problem,  only  I  should  have  to  come  over  to  his  house,  where  he  had  it  all  laid  out  for  me.  And  so,  in  a  way,  he  had.  Experts,  as  I  knew  from  of  old,  will  go  to  any  amount  of  trou-  ble  to  help  the  lay  mind  over  its  tiny  bafflements,  but  my  cattle-breeding  friend  never  went  to  the  length  of  gumming  sheets  of  graph  paper  to-  gether  to  make  a  strip,  or  ribbon,  about  twenty-five  feet  long  by  eighteen  inches  wide  and  then  draping  the  whole  affair  over  two  chair  backs  and  a  dining  ta-  ble.  Horns  don't  come  in  those  sorts  of  sizes,  anyway.  " b"&quot;I  wanted  to  get  it  to  scale,&quot;  the  captain  explained,  and  then  he  showed  me  a  sizable  compass-drawn  sun  shin-  ing  away  at  the  far  end  of  the  strip,  all  those  micromillimetres  away,  and  a  neat  little  circle  for  the  earth  un-  der  our  starboard  quarter,  with  just  enough  room  left  for  the  moon  to  orbit  round  it  without  falling  off  the  paper.  The  moon  itself,  of  course,  was  mo-  bile-a  cardboard  disc,  small  but  dis-  tinctly  lunar-and  pretty  soon  the  captain  had  it  on  the  move,  explaining  as  he  (and  it)  went.  There  were  some  lines  radiating  out  from  the  earth's  center-vectors,  I  daresay-which  ter-  minated  at  the  right-hand  margin  and  had  degrees  written  against  them  in  a  fine  nautical  hand,  but  what  they  sig-  nified  I  never  determined.  Indeed,  as  the  moon  swept  on  and  the  captain's  demonstration  rounded  to  its  conclu-  sion,  I  was  unable  to  determine  any-  thing  beyond  the  fact  that  I  had  an-  other  question  to  put:  an  elementary  question  once  again,  but  this  time  in-  escapable.  &quot;Look,&quot;  I  had  to  say,  &quot;I'm  sorry  to  interrupt,  but  wasn't  it  actually  the  phases  of  the  moon  and  of  the  earth  that  we  were  talking  about?  You  know,  my  rather  infantile  .  ..&quot;  &quot;Right,&quot;  he  said.  \xc2\xab&quot;Well,  then,  I  mean,  I'm  tremen-  dously  grateful  for  all  the  trouble  you've  taken,  but  isn't  this-  Haven't  you  actually  been  demonstrating  an  eclipse?&quot;  He  gave  a  hard  look  at  the  earth,  picked  up  his  moon  dise  and  laid  it  carefully  down  again  in  a  considering  kind  of  way,  then  paced  the  full  length  of  his  paper  chain  down  to  the  sun's  end  and  back  again-it  was,  after  all,  the  nearest  thing  to  a  quarterdeck  he  had  under  command-and  finally  came  to  anchor  facing  me.  &quot;You're  damn  right,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  have,  at  that.&quot;  And  he  burst  into  as  hearty  a  laugh  as  ever  greeted  a  mention  of  Charley  Magnus.  The  years  roll  by,  and  I  am  now  in  a  position  to  send  a  word  of  comfort  to  my  [REDACTED]  Navy  friend.  Knowledge  comes,  even  though  wisdom  lingers.  If  he  cares  to  apply  to  the  Museum  of  Natural  History  in  New  York,  as  my  cattle-breeding  acquaintance  did  to  its  [REDACTED]  counterpart,  he  will,  I  under-  stand,  geta  prompt  solution,  without  benefit  of  graph  paper,  to  my  little  problem.  The  fact  is  that  the  half-earth  as  seen  from  the  moon  does  not  sit  on  its  equator  but  is  cut  from  top  to  bot-  tom  in  a  thoroughly  normal  and  lunar  manner.  Anybody  who  thinks  other-  wise,  the  Museum  authorities  say,  has  been  sadly  misled  by  incorrect,  faked-  up  pictures  published  at  the  relevant  time.  So  there  we  are.  The  whole  episode  has  reinforced  my  determination  never  again  to  put  questions,  childish  or  oth-  erwise,  to  experts.  As  for  my  Amer-  can  friend,  whose  reputation  emerges  unstained  (the  keenest  nautical  mind  cannot  be  expected  to  explain  a  phe-  nomenon  that  does  not  in  fact  occur),  he  may  or  may  not  decide  to  call  at  the  Museum,  just  to  confirm  their  half-  earth  findings.  But  if  he  does,  perhaps  he  would  kindly  put  a  subsidiary  query  to  them-about  bulls'  horns.  One  likes  to  clearthese  matters  up."