 b"January  EADERS  and  well-wishers  of  R  Sunrise  will  be  relieved  to  hear  that  the  editorial,  financial,  and  circulation  offices  made  the  move  from  Rungis-les-Poires  (twelve  kilometres  from  [REDACTED])  to  Saint-Ronge  (eighteen  kilometres  from  [REDACTED],  but  on  the  other  side)  without  damage  to  the  handpress.  Soon  after  noticing  the  departure,  former  landlord  F.  S.  Abogin  regis-  tered  a  claim  for  fraud  and  unpaid  rent  with  the  local  police.  But  as  land-  lord  Abogin  had  continued  to  use  edi-  torial  space  for  storing  unsold  bicycle  parts,  the  editors  have  been  neither  in-  timidated  nor  impressed.  Sunrise's  new  quarters-a  comfort-  able  corner  of  the  loft  belonging  to  A.  S.  Paptachinsky,  of  Paptachinsky  Inter-  national  Raincoats-have  only  one  drawback.  The  town  hall  of  Saint-  Ronge  is  next  door,  and  the  red  flag  hoisted  after  last  year's  municipal  elec-  tions  can  be  seen  at  all  times.  Efforts  are  being  made  to  black  out  the  win-  dow  on  that  side  of  the  loft.  Subscribers  who  want  to  continue  re-  ceiving  this  monthly  newsletter  should  send  money  without  delay  to  the  rub-  ber-band  fund.  FEBRUARY  Sunrise  is  dead.  Aurore  is  born.  Paid-up  subscribers  to  Sunrise  and  its  predecessor,  Dawn,  will  continue  to  receive  our  review  and  will  also  be  sent,  without  extra  charge,  a  bonus  issue  devoted  to  pointing  out  the  fail-  ures  of  a  certain  poet,  a  certain  critic,  a  certain  historian,  and  a  certain  chess  player-all  fourwell  known  in  \xc3\xa9migr\xc3\xa9  circles.  Managing  Editor  and  President  P.  V.  Laypunov,  Executive  Editor  and  Chairman-Secretary  S.  A.  Kon-  kordiev,  and  Treasurer,  Proofreader,  and  Poetry  Editor  I.  P.  Kulikin  main-  tain  their  positions,  by  unanimous  vote.  The  two  part-time  members  of  the  staff  have  been  called  to  other  duties:  P.  G.  Nadarov,  who  edited  the  Nature  page,  plansa  move  to  the  Ruhr  [REDACTED],  where  a  post  is  said  to  have  fallen  va-  cant  in  a  smelting  plant,  while  artist  B.  Demyanov's  cousin  in  Perth,  Scot-  land,  was  finally  able  to  get  him  the  right  kind  of  visa  for  employment  on  a  sheep  farm.  Good  luck  to  P.  G.  Nadarov  and  B.  Demyanov.  May  they  never  forget  their  days  and  nights  with  Sunrise,  Dawn,  and  Dawn's  predeces-  sor,  Morning  Light.  The  poem  &quot;Birchbark,&quot;byZ.  Mu-  rashkinova,  in  the  August  issue  of  Sun-  rise,  should  have  been  called  &quot;From  a  Bed  of  Moss.&quot;  Marce  Readers  and  well-wishers  who  de-  sire  to  attend  Aurora's  housewarm-  ing  party  should  send  contributions  without  delay  to  the  refreshments  fund.  C.  Navagin  has  volunteered  to  find  a  site  convenient  for  everyone.  (Mr.  Paptachinsky's  lease  expressly  forbids  large  literary  gatherings.)  M.  Fedyu-  kova  will  look  up  train  schedules.  She  suggests  that  partygoers  travelling  from  [REDACTED]  meet  under  the  clock  at  the  Gare  du  Nord,  each  with  enough  money  for  second-class  round-trip  fare  and  extra  refreshments.  The  impulsive  behavior  of  former  landlord  F.  S.  Abogin  has  resulted  in  the  scandalous  arrest  of  Poetry  Editor  Kulikin.  The  facts  are  these:  Mr.  Abo-  gin,  having  found  three  valuable  icons  (representing  St.  Serge,  St.  John  the  Evangelist,  and  the  Assumption)  in  Editor  Kulikin's  suitcase,  decided  to  confiscate  them  in  lieu  of  back  rent.  The  police  have  now  seized  the  icons  and  are  having  them  examined.  In  a  dramatic  confrontation  with  former  landlord  Abogin,  Editor  S.  A.  Konkor-  diev  found  him  flushed  in  the  face  and  incoherent.  He  was  not  wearing  a  tie  or  even  a  shirt,  and  seemed  totally  lacking  in  culture.  Editor  Konkordiey  expressed  some  surprise  that  Editor  Kulikin  had  inherited  three  icons  from  a  great-uncle  in  [REDACTED],  Austria,  Edi-  tor  Kulikin  had  never  spoken  of  his  relative  before  now.  Owing  to  a  backlog  of  poetry  manu-  scripts  and  a  severe  shortage  of  paper,  the  editors  cannot  promise  to  publish  the  long-awaited  poem  &quot;The  Last  Day  in  the  Old  Home,&quot;  by  I.  T.  Penkov,  except  by  public  subscription.  Readers  wishing  to  receive  a  volume  from  the  limited  edition  (eleven  copies)  should  send  contributions  to  the  glue  fund  without  delay.  The  poem  &quot;From  a  Bed  of  Moss,&quot;  attributed  to  Z.  Murashkinova,  was  the  work  of  V.  Shtutchkin.  The  edi-  tors  are  not  responsible  for  the  mistake.  APRIL  On  the  third  of  this  month  and  for  half  an  hour,  the  red  flag  flying  over     the  Saint-Ronge  town  hall  was  struck,  suggesting  a  takeover  of  some  kind.  But  the  flag  was  soon  hoisted  again,  along  with  a  second  flag  the  same  size  and  color.  This  second  flag  represents  the  Saint-Ronge  Marxist  Workers  Fel-  lowship,  a  splinter  group  led  by  the  night  watchman.  Awrore  can  only  re-  joice  at  this  sign  of  internal  power  struggles  on  the  Left.  May  Poetry  Editor  Kulikin  has  come  back,  cleared  of  the  charge  of  having  received  stolen  goods.  Former  land-  lord  Abogin,  however,  will  be  stand-  ing  trial  on  charges  of  having  stolen  the  same  goods  from  Mr.  Kulikin.  The  icons  are  now  to  be  analyzed  by  X  ray.  With  the  return  of  Editor  Kulikin,  work  resumes  on  the  first  issue  of  Aurora.  (Proofreading  had  ground  to  a  halt  because  Mr.  Kulikin,  who  owns  both  dictionaries,  had  taken  them  with  him  to  jail.)  V.  Shtutchkin  writes  to  say  that  &quot;From  a  Bed  of  Moss&quot;  is  a  stanza  lifted  from  his  long  poem  &quot;The  Age  of  Steam.&quot;  Our  readers  probably  knew  about  this.  June  The  housewarming  scheduled  for  March  took  place  on  the  twenty-fourth  of  this  month  in  the  buffet  of  the  rail-  way  station  at  Saint-Ronge.  Most  of  the  guests  arrived  safely,  even  though  extremely  tired  after  the  strain  of  meeting  under  the  clock  and  getting  on  the  right  train.  Present  were  L.  P.  Frolov,  A.  Stirn,  M.  Zavzyatova,  and  N.  Marfutkin  with  poodle  Yo-Yo.  P.  G.  Potrashkov  appeared  on  a  later  train,  explaining  that  he  had  been  wait-  ing  under  the  clock  at  the  Galeries  Lafayette  department  store.  During  the  evening,  L.  P.  Frolov  spoke  to  A.  Stirn  but  not  to  N.  Marfutkin  or  M.  Zavzyatova.  A.  Stirn  answered  a  question  put  to  him  by  N.  Marfutkin  but  refused  to  pass  the  little  cakes  to  P.  G.  Potrashkov.  P.  G.  Potrashkov  was  seen  to  turn  away  from  L.  P.  Frolov.  The  editors  thank  their  guests  for  the  generous  collection  taken  up  just  before  closing  time  for  the  lump-sugar  fund.  I.  P.  Kulikin  has  not  been  reinstated  as  Poetry  Editor,  but  he  will  continue  as  Proofreader.  Jury  Proofreader  Kulikin  has  taken  the  world  by  surprise  by  announcing  his  engagement  to  Mlle.  Honorine  Sucre,  high-ranking  and  trusted  employee  of  " b"the  French  Immigration  Service.  Mlle.  Sucre  is  comely  and  fair.  Her  age,  an  agreeable  forty-eight,  blends  harmoni-  ously  with  the  age  of  Mr.  Kulikin.  Our  hearty  good  wishes  to  I.  P.Kulikin,  who  has  been  voted  President  and  Ex-  ecutive  Editor.  A.  O.  Murkin  writes:  &quot;My  wife  has  identified  'The  Age  of  Steam'  as  the  work  of  V.  Krinolinsky.  The  first  line  should  not  read  'If  birch  leaves  can  be  said  ...'  but  'Who  can  say  if  birch  leaves  ..  .'&quot;  In  a  conversation  free  of  pretense  or  deceit,  Editor  Kulikin  explained  how  he  happened  to  have  the  three  icons  in  his  suitcase.  A  stranger  ran  up  to  Mr.  Kulikin  while  he  was  on  his  way  to  buy  some  lemons  and  thrust  the  icons  into  his  hands.  Aucusr  News  of  Editor  Kulikin's  engage-  ment  to  a  high-ranking  official  of  the  Immigration  Service  has  brought  a  wealth  of  congratulations  and  testi-  monials  to  the  offices  of  Aurore.  Pro-  " b"fessor  U.  E.  Gurdin  writes:  &quot;I  had  Kulikin  in  my  geography  class  at  Push-  kin  High  School  for  five  years  running.  When  he  finally  could  tell  the  differ-  ence  between  [REDACTED]  and  Armenia,  I  thought  I  would  never  have  to  see  him  again.  Now  I  hope  never  to  lose  track  of  him  as  long  as  I  live.&quot;  'This  and  similar  tributes  are  to  be  pasted  in  an  album  well-wishers  may  sign  during  the  engagement  party.  The  party  is  to  be  held  after  business  hours  in  the  Gros-  prix  grocery  store,  where  D.  Dvor-  nyagin  is  a  familiar  sight  behind  the  cheese  counter.  Readers  and  well-wish-  ers  wanting  to  attend  should  meet  at  the  main  entrance  to  the  Gare  de  l'Est,  each  bringing  eight  urban-transporta-  tion  tickets,  a  gift  forthe  bride-to-be,  a  contribution  toward  refreshments,  and  a  candle  and  matches  in  case  D.  Dvornyagin  feels  it  more  prudent  not  to  turn  on  the  store  lights.  Anyone  who  misses  the  general  group  meeting  at  the  Gare  de  PEst  should  take  the  M\xc3\xa9tro  to  [REDACTED]  (one  ticket),  then  the  No.  69  bus  to  Invalides  (two  tickets),  then  the  M\xc3\xa9tro  to  La  Motte-Piquet  (one  ticket).  Do  not  ask  strangers  the  way  to  the  store.  Editor  Kulikin  tells  us  that  the  po-  lice  have  now  positively  identified  the  three  icons  as  recent  copies  (1977)  of  inferior  nineteenth-century  Bulgarian  religious  art.  'This  substantiates  Mr.  Kulikin's  story  that  a  man  rushed  up  to  him  in  the  street.  SEPTEMBER  Landlord  A.  S.  Paptachinsky  has  re-  gretfully  informed  Aurore  that  his  new  lease  expressly  forbids  him  to  have  the  staff  of  a  literary  review  on  the  premises.  All  suggestions  for  a  new  venue  will  be  welcome,  as  well  as  contribu-  tions  to  the  wrapping-paper  fund.  At  the  party  given  to  celebrate  Mr.  Kulikin's  engagement,  Mlle.  Sucre  was  heard  by  N.  Marfutkin  to  say,  &quot;When  you  marry  one  Russian,  you've  married  them  all.&quot;  After  this  was  repeated  to  Editor  Kulikin,  he  became  thoughtful.  OctoBEr  Editor  Kulikin  is  retiring  from  Au-  rora.  He  has  been  offered  a  post  in  the  mineral-water  bottling  plant  where  his  future  brother-in-law,  T.  Sucre,  keeps  track  of  all  the  plastic  stoppers.  Mr.  Kulikin  leaves  a  reputation  for  in-  tellectual  acumen  and  personal  probi-  ty.  He  takes  with  him  the  two  diction-  aries  he  paid  for  out  of  his  own  pocket,  and  the  three  Bulgarian  icons  he  wants  to  keep  &quot;for  old  time's  sake.&quot;  Good  luck  at  the  bottling  plant,  I.  P.  Kulikin.  D.  Dvornyagin  writes  to  refute  the  charge  that  there  were  no  little  cakes  at  the  engagement  party.  A  plate  of  cakes  was  placed  on  the  yogurt  counter,  within  easy  reach  of  all.  He  noticed  at  one  point  that  the  cakes  were  still  on  the  counter  but  the  plate  was  gone.  D.  Dvornyagin  is  still  employed  at  the  Grosprix  grocery  store  but  has  been  moved  from  cheese  to  checkout.  Five  readers  write:  &quot;The  poem  called  'The  Age  of  Steam'  is  not  a  poem.  It  is  a  pamphlet,  'When  Tele-  graph  Workers  Strike,&quot;  published  in  1910  byV.  I.  Lenin.  Who  was  behind  your  sinister  hoax?  The  Kremlin?  The  undersigned  cancel  their  ten-year  sub-  scription  and  demand  return  of  con-  tributions  to  the  packing-up  fund  (De-  cember),  the  settling-in  fund  (Janu-  ary  ),  and  the  cherry-jam  fund  (during  criminal  Kulikin's  jail  term).&quot;  Signed  by  L.  P.  Frolov,  A.  Stirn,  M.  Zavzya-  tova,  P.  G.  Potrashkov,  and  N.  Mar-  futkin.  Contributions  are  invited  to  the  dic-  tionary  fund.  NovEMBER  The  former  Honorine  Sucre  has  left  the  Immigration  Service.  As  for  her  spouse,  Stalinist,  K.G.B.  agent,  spy,  and  lout  Kulikin,  when  last  heard  of  he  was  still  piling  crates  at  the  bottling  plant.  Soon  after  convict  Kulikin's  de-  parture  from  Aurore,  a  certificate  Slgned  by  an  icon  speCIahst  and  dealer  in  Geneva  was  found  in  a  wastepaper  basket.  The  three  icons  were  painted  in  1500.  They  are  from  Novgorod.  They  represent  St.  Basil,  St.  George  Defeating  the  Dragon,  and  the  Entry  Into  Jerusalem.  They  are  of  inestimable  cultural,  historical,  artistic,  and  com-  mercial  value.  In  the  opinion  of  our  new  poetry  editor,  I.  T.  Penkov,  au-  thor  of  the  long-awaited  &quot;The  Last  Day  in  the  Old  Home,&quot;  who  was  pres-  ent  during  the  discovery  of  the  cer-  tificate,  &quot;Kulikin  was  a  creature  living  on  the  level  of  mankind's  basest  in-  stincts.&quot;  The  editors  of  Awrore  inform  their  readers  and  well-wishers  that  the  hand-  press  is  now  out  in  the  driveway  of  Paptachinsky  International  Raincoats,  exposed  to  rain,  snow,  and  gravel  thrown  up  by  trucks  backing  in  and  out.  Unless  conditions  improve,  the  editors  may  have  to  cancel  the  Decem-  ber  newsletter.  DECEMBER  Subscribers  will  be  relieved  to  learn  that  Aurore  has  made  the  removal  from  Saint-Ronge  to  M\xc3\xa9gapt\xc3\xa9re-les-  Lilas,  a  journey  of  only  six  hours  by  rail,  without  damage  to  the  handpress.  The  editors  are  now  comfortably  in-  stalled  in  a  cubicle  of  the  public  bath-  house,  where  reader  E.  Yevmeny  has  been  attendant  since  1972.  At  M\xc3\xa9gap-  tere-les-Lilas,  the  editors  are  unlikely  to  be  annoyed  by  the  sight  of  provoca-  tive  flags  flying.  Here,  in  strip-mining  country,  the  view  all  the  way  to  the  horizon  is  harmoniously  uniform.  Zu-  rora  is  dead.  Daybreak  is  born.  Early  subscribers  to  Deybrecak  will  be  sent  a  bonus  copy  of  &quot;The  Last  Day  in  the  Old  Home,&quot;  proofread  by  author  Pen-  kov  himself.  Contributions  to  the  blanket-and-pillow  fund  will  be  wel-  comed,  as  well  as  the  gift  of  any  TV  set,  even  black-and-white  and  only  one-channel. "