 b"THE  rectory  was  in  County  Wex-  ford,  eight  miles  from  Ennis  corthy.  It  was  a  handsome  eigh-  teenth-century  house,  with  [REDACTED]  creeper  covering  three  sides  and  atan-  gled  garden  full  of  buddleia  and  strug-  gling  japonica  that  had  always  been  too  much  for  its  incumbents.  It  stood  alone,  seeming  lonely  even,  approxi-  mately  at  the  center  of  the  country  parish  it  served.  Its  church-St.  Mi-  chael's  Church  of  Ireland-was  two  miles  away,  in  the  village  of  Bohar-  bawn.  For  twenty-six  years  the  Morans  had  lived  there,  not  wishing  to  live  anywhere  else.  Canon  Moran  had  nev-  er  been  an  ambitious  man;  his  wife,  Frances,  had  found  contentment  easy  to  attain  in  her  lifetime.  Their  four  girls  had  been  born  in  the  rectory,  and  had  become  a  happy  family  there.  They  were  grown  up  now;  Frances's  death  was  still  recent:  like  the  rectory  itself,  the  remaining  occupant  was  alone  in  the  countryside.  The  death  had  oc-  curred  in  the  spring  of  the  year,  and  the  summer  had  somehow  been  bear-  able.  The  clergyman's  eldest  daughter  had  spent  May  and  part  of  June  at  the  rectory  with  her  children.  Another  one  had  brought  her  family  for  most  of  August,  and  a  third  was  to  bring  her  newly  married  husband  in  the  winter.  At  Christmas  nearly  all  of  them  would  gather  at  the  rectory,  and  some  would  come  at  Easter.  But  that  September,  as  the  days  drew  in,  the  season  was  melancholy.  Then,  one  Tuesday  morning,  Slat-  tery  brought  a  letter  from  Canon  Mo-  ran's  youngest  daughter.  There  were  two  other  letters  as  well,  in  unsealed  buff  envelopes,  which  meant  that  they  were  either  bills  or  receipts.  Frail  and  gray-haired  in  his  elderliness,  Canon  Moran  had  been  wondering  if  he  should  give  the  lawn  in  front  of  the  house  a  last  cut,  when  he  heard  the  ap-  proach  of  Slattery's  van.  The  lawn-  mower  was  the  kind  that  had  to  be  pushed,  and  in  the  spring  the  job  was  always  easier  if  the  grass  had  been  cropped  close  at  the  end  of  the  previous  summer.  &quot;Isn't  that  agreat  bit  of  weather,  Canon?&quot;  Slattery  remarked,  winding  down  the  window  of  the  van,  and  passed  out  the  threeenvelopes.  &quot;We're  set  for  a  while,  would  you  say?&quot;  &quot;Ihope  so,  certainly.&quot;  &quot;Ah,  we  surely  are,  sir.&quot;  The  conversation  continued  for  a  few  moments  longer,  as  it  did  when-  ever  Slattery  came  to  the  rectory.  The  postman  was  young  and  easygoing,  not  long  the  successor  to  old  Mr.  O'Brien,  who  had  made  the  rounds  on  a  bicycle  when  the  Morans  first  came  to  the  rectory,  in  1952.  Mr.  O'Brien  used  to  talk  about  his  garden;  Slattery  talked  about  fishing  and  often  brought  ashare  of  his  catch  to  the  rectory.  &quot;It's  a  great  time  of  year  for  it,&quot;  he  said  now,  &quot;except  for  the  darkness  coming  in.&quot;  Canon  Moran  smiled  and  nodded.  The  van  turned  around  on  the  gravel,  dust  rising  behind  it  as  it  moved  swiftly  down  the  avenue  to  the  road.  Every-  one  said  Slattery  drove  too  fast.  Canon  Moran  carried  the  letters  to  a  wooden  seat  by  the  edge  of  the  lawn  he  had  wondered  about  cutting.  Deir-  dre's  handwriting  hadn't  changed  since  she  was  a  child;  it  was  round  and  neat,  not  at  all  a  reflection  of  the  girl  she  was.  The  brown  English  stamp,  the  Queen  in  profile  blotched  a  bit  by  the  [REDACTED]  postmark,  wasn't  on  its  side  or  upside  down,  as  you  might  possibly  expect  with  Deirdre.  Of  all  the  Moran  children,  she'd  grown  up  to  be  the  only  difficult  one.  She  hadn't  come  to  the  funeral  and  hadn't  written  about  her  mother's  death.  She  hadn't  been  to  the  rectory  for  three  years.  &quot;I'm  sorry,&quot;  she  wrote.  &quot;I  couldn't  stop  crying  actually.  I've  never  known  anyone  as  nice  or  as  generous  as  she  was.  For  ages  I  didn't  even  want  to  believe  she  was  dead.  I  went  on  imag-  ining  her  in  the  rectory  and  doing  the  flowers  in  church  and  shopping  in  Enniscorthy.&quot;  Deirdre  was  twenty-one.  He  and  Frances  had  hoped  she'd  go  to  Trinity  and  settle  down,  but  although  at  school  she  seemed  to  be  the  cleverest  of  their  children,  she  had  no  desire  to  become  a  student.  She  took  the  Rosslare  boat  to  Fishguard  one  night,  having  said  she  was  going  to  spend  a  week  with  her  friend  Maeve  Coles  in  Cork.  They  didn't  know  she'd  gone  to  England  un-  til  they  received  a  picture  postcard  from  [REDACTED]  telling  them  not  to  worry,  saying  she'd  found  work  in  an  egg-  packing  factory.  &quot;Well  I'm  coming  back  for  a  little  while  now,&quot;  she  wrote,  &quot;if  you  could  put  up  with  me  and  if  you  wouldn't  find  it  too  much.  I'll  cross  over  to  Ross-  lare  on  the  29th,  the  morning  cross-  ing,  and  then  I'll  come  on  to  Ennis-  corthy  on  the  bus.  I  don't  know  what  time  it  will  be  but  there's  a  pub  just  by  where  the  bus  drops  you  so  could  we  meet  in  the  small  bar  there  at  six  o'clock  and  then  I  won't  have  to  lug  my  cases  too  far.  I  hope  you  won't  mind  going  into  such  a  place.  If  you  can't  make  it  or  don't  want  to  see  me  it's  understandable,  so  if  you  don't  turn  up  by  half  six  I'll  see  if  I  can  get  a  bus  on  up  to  [REDACTED].  Only  I  need  to  get  back  to  Ireland  for  a  while.&quot;  It  was,  as  he  and  Slattery  had  agreed,  a  lovely  autumn.  Gentle  sun-  shine  mellowed  the  old  garden,  casting  an  extra  sheen  of  gold  on  leaves  that  were  gold  already.  Roses  that  had  been  ebullient  in  June  and  July  bloomed  modestly;  Michaelmas  daisies  were  just  beginning  to  bud.  The  crab  apples  were  falling  already;  the  hydrangeas  had  a  forgotten  look.  Canon  Moran  carried  the  letter  from  his  daughter  into  the  walled  vegetable  garden  and  leaned  against  the  side  of  a  greenhouse,  half  sitting  on  a  protruding  ledge,  reading  the  letter  again.  Panes  of  glass  were  broken  in  the  greenhouse,  and  white  paint  and  putty  needed  to  be  re-  newed,  but  inside  a  vine  still  thrived  and  was  heavy  with  black  ripe  fruit.  Later  that  morning  he  would  pick  some  grapes  and  drive  into  Ennis-  corthy,  to  sell  them  to  Mrs.  Roche  in  Slaney  Street.  &quot;Love,  Deirdre&quot;:  the  letter  was  marvellous.  Beyond  the  rectory  the  fields  of  wheat  had  been  harvested,  and  the  remaining  stubble  had  the  same  tinge  of  gold  in  the  autumn  light;  the  beech  trees  and  the  chestnuts  were  triumphantly  magnificent.  But  decay  and  rotting  were  only  weeks  away,  and  the  letter  from  Deirdre  was  full  of  life.  &quot;Love,  Deirdre&quot;  were  words  more  beautiful  than  all  the  sea-  son's  glories.  He  prayed  as  he  leaned  against  the  sunny  greenhouse,  thanking  God  for  this  salvation.  R  all  the  years  of  their  marriage  Frances  had  been  a  help.  As  a  younger  man,  Canon  Moran  often  hadn't  known  quite  what  to  do.  He'd  been  at  a  loss  among  his  parishioners,  hesitating  in  the  face  of  this  weakness  or  that:  the  pregnancy  of  Alice  Pratt  in  1952,  the  argument  about  grazing  rights  between  Mr.  Willoughby  and  " b"Eugene  Ryan  in  1960,  the  theft  of  an  altar  cloth  from  St.  Mi-  chael's  and  reports  that  Mrs.  Tobin  had  been  seen  wearing  it  as  a  skirt.  Alice  Pratt  had  been  going  out  with  a  Catholic  boy,  one  of  Father  Hayes's  flock,  which  made  the  mat-  ter  more  difficult  than  ever.  Eugene  Ryan  was  one  of  Father  Hayes's  also,  and  so  was  Mrs.  Tobin.  &quot;Father  Hayes  and  I  had  a  chat,&quot;  Frances  had  said,  and  she'd  had  a  chat  as  well  with  Alice  Pratt's  mother.  A  month  later,  Alice  Pratt  married  the  Catholic  boy,  but  to  this  day  she  attended  St.  Michael's  every  Sunday,  the  children  going  to  Father  Hayes.  Mrs.  Tobin  was  given  Hail  Marys  to  say  by  the  priest;  Mr.  Wil-  loughby  agreed  that  his  father  had  years  ago  granted  Eugene  Ryan  the  grazing  rights.  Everything,  in  these  cases  and  in  many  others,  had  come  out  all  right  in  the  end:  order  emerged  from  the  confusion  that  Canon  Moran  so  disliked,  and  it  was  Frances  who  had  always  begun  the  process,  though  no  one  ever  said  in  the  rectory  that  she  understood  the  mystery  of  people  as  well  as  he  under-  stood  the  teachings  of  the  New  Testa-  ment.  She'd  been  a  freckle-faced  girl  when  he'd  married  her-pretty  in  her  way.  He  was  the  one  with  the  brains.  Frances  had  seen  human  frailty  ev-  erywhere:  it  was  weakness  in  people,  she  said,  that  made  them  what  they  were  as  much  as  strength  did.  And  she  herself  had  her  own  share  of  such  frailty,  falling  short  in  all  sorts  of  ways  of  the  God's  image  her  husband  preached  about.  With  the  small  amount  of  housekeeping  money  she  could  be  allowed,  she  was  a  spend-  thrift,  and  she  said  she  was  lazy.  She  loved  clothes  and  often  overreached  herself  on  visits  to  [REDACTED];  she  sat  in  the  sun  while  the  rectory  gathered  dust  and  the  garden  became  rank;  it  was  only  where  people  were  concerned  that  she  was  practical.  But  for  what  she  was,  her  husband  had  loved  her  with  inobtrusive  passion  for  fifty  years,  ap-  preciating  her  conversation  and  the  help  she  gave  him  because  she  could  so  easily  sense  the  truth.  When  he  found  her  dead  in  the  gardenone  morning,  he  felt  he  had  lost  some  part  of  him-  self.  Though  several  months  had  passed  since  then,  the  trouble  was  that  Frances  hadn't  yet  become  a  ghost.  Her  being  alive  was  still  too  recent,  the  shock  of  her  death  too  raw;  the  past  refused  to  be  the  past.  Often  he  thought  that  her  fingerprints  were  still  in  the  rectory;  and  when  he  picked  the  grapes  or  cut  the  grass  of  the  lawn,  it  was  impossible  not  to  pause  and  re-  member  other  years.  Autumn  had  been  her  favorite  time.  &quot;{  YF  course  I'd  come,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Of  course,  dear.  Of  course.&quot;  &quot;I  haven't  treated  you  very  well.&quot;  &quot;It's  over  and  done  with,  Deirdre.&quot;  She  smiled,  and  it  was  nice  to  see  her  smile  again,  although  it  was  strange  to  be  sitting  in  the  back  bar  of  a  pub-  lic  house  in  Enniscorthy.  He  saw  her  looking  at  him,  her  eyes  passing  over  his  clerical  collar  and  black  clothes  and  his  thin,  quiet  face.  He  could  feel  her  thinking  that  he  had  aged,  and  putting   it  down  to  the  death  of  the  wife  he'd  been  so  fond  of.  &quot;I'm  sorry  I  didn't  write,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You  explained  in  your  letter,  Deirdre.&quot;  &quot;It  was  ages  before  I  knew  about  it.  That  was  an  old  address  you  wrote  to.&quot;  &quot;I  guessed.&quot;  In  turn  he  examined  her.  Years  ago  she'd  had  her  long  hair  cut.  It  was  short,  like  a  neat  black  cap  on  her  head.  And  her  face  had  lost  its  chub-  biness;  hollows  where  her  cheeks  had  been  made  her  eyes  more  dominant-  pools  of  seaweed  green.  He  remem-  bered  her  child's  stocky  body,  and  the  uneasy  adolescence  that  had  spoiled  the  family's  serenity.  Her  voice  had  lost  its  Irish  intonation.  &quot;I'd  have  met  you  off  the  boat,  you  know.&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  want  to  bother  you  with  that.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  now,  it  isn't  far,  Deirdre.&quot;  She  drank  Irish  whiskey,  and  smoked  a  brand  of  cigarettes  called  Three  Castles,  He'd  asked  for  a  min-  eral  himself,  and  the  woman  serving  them  had  brought  him  a  bottle  of  something  that  looked  like  water  but  " b"fizzed  up  when  she  poured  it.  A  kind  of  lemonade,  he  imagined  it  was,  and  didn't  much  care  for  it.  &quot;I  have  grapes  for  Mrs.  Roche,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Who's  that?&quot;  &quot;She  has  a  shop  in  Slaney  Street.  We  always  sold  her  the  grapes.  You  re-  member?&quot;  She  didn't,  and  he  reminded  her  of  the  vine  in  the  greenhouse.  A  shop  surely  wouldn't  be  open  at  this  hour  of  the  evening,  she  said,  forgetting  that  in  a  country  town  of  course  it  would  be.  She  asked  if  the  cinema  was  still  the  same  in  Enniscorthy-a  cement  build-  ing  halfway  up  a  hill.  She  said  she  re-  membered  bicycling  home  from  it  at  night  with  her  sisters,  not  being  able  to  keep  up  with  them.  She  asked  after  her  sisters,  and  he  told  her  about  the  two  marriages  that  had  taken  place  since  she'd  left:  she  had  in-laws  she'd  never  met,  and  nephews  and  a  niece.  They  left  the  bar,  and  he  drove  his  dusty  black  Vauxhall  straight  to  the  small  shop  he'd  spoken  of.  She  re-  mained  in  the  car  while  he  carried  into  the  shop  two  large  chip  baskets  full  of  grapes.  Afterward  Mrs.  Roche  came  to  the  door  with  him.  &quot;Well,  is  that  Deirdre?&quot;  she  said  as  Deirdre  wounddown  the  window  of  the  car.  &quot;I'd  never  know  you,  Deirdre.&quot;  &quot;She's  come  back  for  a  little  while,&quot;  Canon  Moran  explained,  raising  his  voice  a  little,  because  he  was  walking  around  the  car  to  the  driver's  seatas  he  spoke.  &quot;Well,  isn't  that  grand?&quot;  said  Mrs.  Roche.  Everyone  in  Enniscorthy  knew  Deirdre  had  just  gone  off,  but  it  didn't  matter  now.  Mrs.  Roche's  husband,  who  was  small  and  red-cheeked,  with  acap,  appeared  beside  his  wife  in  the  shop  doorway.  He  inclined  his  head  in  a  greeting,  and  Deirdre  smiled  and  waved  at  both  of  them.  Canon  Moran  thought  it  was  pleasant  when  she  went  on  waving  while  he  drove  off.  In  the  rectory  he  lay  wakeful  that  night,  his  mind  excited  by  Deirdre's  presence.  He  would  have  loved  Fran-  ces  to  know,  and  guessed  that  she  prob-  ably  did.  He  fell  asleep  at  half  past  two  and  dreamed  that  he  and  Frances  were  young  again,  that  Deirdre  was  still  a  baby.  The  freckles  on  Frances's  face  were  out  in  profusion,  for  they  were  sitting  in  the  sunshine  in  the  gar-  den,  tea  things  spread  about  them,  the  children  playing  some  game  among  the  shrubs.  It  was  autumn  then  also,  the  last  of  the  September  heat.  But  because  he  was  younger  in  his  dream,  he  didn't  feel  part  of  the  season  him-  self,  or  sense  its  melancholy.  A  WEEK  went  by.  The  time  passed  slowly  because  a  lot  was  happening,  or  so  it  seemed.  Deirdre  in-  sisted  on  cooking  all  the  meals  and  on  doing  the  shopping  in  Boharbawn's  only  shop  or  in  Enniscorthy.  She  still  smoked  her  endless  cigarettes,  but  the  peakiness  there  had  been  in  her  face  when  she  first  arrived  wasn't  quite  so  pronounced-or  perhaps,  he  thought,  he'd  become  used  to  it.  She  told  him  about  the  different  jobs  she'd  had  in  [REDACTED]  and  the  different  places  she'd  lived  in,  because  on  the  postcards  she'd  occasionally  sent  there  hadn't  been  room  to  go  into  detail.  In  the  rectory  they  had  always  hoped  she'd  managed  to  get  a  training  of  some  sort,  though  guessing  she  hadn't.  In  fact,  her  jobs  had  been  of  the  most  rudimentary  kind:  as  well  as  her  spell  in  the  egg-  " b"packing  factory,  there'd  been  a  job  in  a  factory  that  made  plastic  earphones,  a  cleaning  job  in  a  hotel  near  Euston,  and  a  year  working  forthe  Use-Us  Office  Cleansing  Service.  &quot;But  you  can't  have  liked  any  of  that  work,  Deirdre?&quot;  he  suggested,  and  she  agreed  that  she  hadn't.  From  the  way  she  spoke,  he  felt  that  this  period  of  her  life  was  over:  adoles-  cence  done  with,  she  had  steadied  and  taken  stock.  He  didn't  suggest  to  her  that  any  of  this  might  be  so,  not  wish-  ing  to  seem  either  too  anxious  or  too  pleased,  but  he  felt  she  had  returned  to  the  rectory  in  a  very  different  frame  of  mind  from  the  one  in  which  she'd  left  it.  He  imagined  she  would  remain  for  quite  a  while,  still  taking  stock,  and  in  a  sense  occupying  her  mother's  place.  He  thought  he  recog-  nized  in  her  a  loneliness  that  matched  his  own,  and  he  wondered  if  it  was  a  feeling  that  their  loneliness  might  be  shared  that  had  brought  her  back  at  this  particular  time.  Sitting  in  the  drawing  room  while  she  cooked  or  washed  up,  or  gathering  grapes  in  the  greenhouse  while  shedid  the  shopping,  he  warmed  delightedly  to  this  theme.  It  seemed  like  an  act  of  God  that  this  autumn  their  circumstances  should  in-  terlace.  By  Christmas  she  would  know  what  she  wanted  to  do  with  her  life;  and  in  the  spring  that  followed,  she  would  perhaps  be  ready  to  set  forth  again.  A  year  would  have  passed  since  the  death  of  Frances.  &quot;I  have  a  friend,&quot;  Deirdre  said  when  they  were  having  a  cup  of  coffee  to-  gether  in  the  middle  of  one  morning.  &quot;Someone  who's  been  good  to  me.&quot;  She  had  carried  a  tray  to  where  he  was  composing  the  next  week's  ser-  mon,  sitting  on  the  wooden  seat  by  the  lawn  at  the  front  of  the  house.  He  laid  aside  his  exercise  book,  and  a  pencil  and  an  eraser.  &quot;Who's  that?&quot;  he  inquired.  &quot;Someone  called  Harold.&quot;  He  nodded,  stirring  sugar  into  his  coffee.  &quot;I  want  to  tell  you  about  Harold,  Father.  I  want  you  to  meet  him.&quot;  ''Yes,  of  course.&quot;  She  lighted  a  cigarette,  She  said,  &quot;We  have  a  lot  in  common.  I  mean,  he's  the  only  person  ...&quot;  She  faltered  and  then  hesitated.  She  lifted  her  cigarette  to  her  lips  and  drew  on  it.  He  said,  &quot;Are  you  fond  of  him,  Deirdre?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  I  am.&quot;  Another  silence  gathered.  She  smoked,  and  drank  her  coffee.  He  added  more  sugar  to  his.  &quot;Of  course  I'd  like  to  meet  him,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Could  he  come  to  stay  with  us,  Father?  Would  you  mind?  Would  it  be  all  right?&quot;  &quot;Of  course  I  wouldn't  mind.  I'd  be  delighted.&quot;  HAROLD  was  summoned,  and  arrived  at  Rosslare  a  few  days  later.  In  the  meantime  Deirdre  had  explained  to  her  father  that  her  friend  was  an  electrician  by  trade,  andhad  let  it  fall  that  he  was  an  intellectual  kind  of  person.  She  borrowed  the  old  Vauxhall  and  drove  it  to  Rosslare  to  meet  him,  returning  to  the  rectory  in  the  early  evening.  &quot;How  d'you  do?&quot;  Canon  Moran  said,  stretching  out  a  hand  in  the  di-  rection  of  an  excessively  thin  youth  with  a  birthmark  on  his  face.  Harold's  mouse-colored  hair  was  cut  very  short,  cropped  almost,  He  was  wearing  a  black  leather  jacket.  &quot;I'm  fine,&quot;  Harold  said.  &quot;You've  had  a  good  journey?&quot;  &quot;Lousy,  'smatter  of  fact,  Moran.&quot;  Harold's  voice  was  strongly  Cock-  ney,  and  Canon  Moran  wondered  if  Deirdre  had  perhaps  picked  up  some  of  her  English  vowel  sounds  from  it.  But  then  he  realized  that  most  people  in  [REDACTED]  would  speak  like  that,  as  people  did  on  the  television  and  the  wireless.  It  was  just  a  little  surprising  that  Harold  and  Deirdre  should  have  so  much  in  common-as  they  clearly  had,  from  the  affectionate  way  they  Mr.  " b"held  one  another's  hand.  None  of  the  other  Moran  girls  had  gone  in  so  much  for  holding  hands  in  front  of  the  family.  He  was  to  sit  in  the  drawing  room,  they  insisted,  while  they  made  supper  in  the  kitchen,  so  he  picked  up  the  Irish  Times  and  did  as  he  was  bidden.  Halfanhour  later  Harold  appeared  and  said  that  the  meal  was  ready:  fried  eggs  and  sausages  and  bacon,  and  some  tinned  beans.  Canon  Moran  said  grace.  Having  stated  that  County  Wex-  ford  looked  great,  Harold  didn't  say  much  else.  He  didn't  smile  much  either.  His  afflicted  face  bore  an  edgy  look,  as  if  he'd  never  become  wholly  reconciled  to  his  birthmark.  It  was  like  a  scarlet  map  on  his  left  cheek-a  shape  that  reminded  Canon  Moran  of  the  toe  of  4974616c79.  Poor  fellow,  he  thought.  And  yet  a  birthmark  was  so  much  less  to  bear  than  other  afflictions  there  could  be.  &quot;Harold's  fascinated  Deirdre  said,  &quot;by  [REDACTED];  Her  friend  didn't  add  anything  to  that  remark  fora  moment,  even  though  Canon  Moran  smiled  and  nodded  interestedly.  Eventually  Harold  said,  struggle  of  the  Irish  people.&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  know  a  thing  about  Irish  history,&quot;  Deirdre  said.  &quot;I  mean,  not  anything  that  made  sense.&quot;  The  conversation  lapsed  at  this  point,  leaving  Canon  Moran  greatly  puzzled.  He  began  to  say  that  Irish  history  had  al-  ways  been  of  consider-  able  interestto  him  also-that  it  had  a  good  story  to  it,  that  its  tragedy  was  uncom-  plicated.  But  the  two  others  didn't  appear  to  understand  what  he  was  talking  about,  and  so  he  changed  the  sub-  ject.  It  was  a  particu-  larly  splendid  autumn,  he  pointed  out.  &quot;Harold  doesn't  go  in  for  anything  like  that,&quot;  Deirdre  replied.  During  the  days  that  followed,  Harold  began  to  talk  more,  surprising  Canon  Moran  withalmost  everything  he  said.  Deirdre  had  been  right  actually,&quot;  &quot;The  to  say  he  was  fascinated  by  Ireland,  and  it  wasn't  just  a  tourist's  fascina-  tion.  Harold  had  read  widely:  he  spoke  of  ancient  battles,  ofthe  plantations  of  James  I  and  Elizabeth,  of  Robert  Emmet  and  the  Mitchelstown  martyrs,  of  Pearse  and  de  Valera.  &quot;The  struggle  of  the  Irish  people&quot;  was  the  expression  he  most  regularly  employed.  It  seemed  to  Canon  Moran  that  the  relationship  between  Harold  and  Deirdre  had  a  lot  to  do  with  Harold's  fascination,  as  though  his  interest  in  Deirdre's  native  land  had  somehow  caused  him  to  become  interested  in  Deirdre  herself.  There  was  something  else  as  well.  Fascinated  by  Ireland,  Harold  hated  his  own  country.  A  sneer  whispered  through  his  voice  when  he  spoke  of  England  :  a  degenerate  place,  he  called  it,  destroyed  by  class  consciousness  and  the  unjust  distribution  of  wealth.  He  described  in  detail  the  city  of  Notting-  ham,  to  which  he  appeared  to  have  a  particular  aversion.  He  spoke  of  un-  necessary  motorways  and  the  stupidity  of  bureaucracy,  the  stifling  presence  of  a  Royal  Family.  &quot;You  could  keep  an  Indian  village,&quot;  he  claimed,  &quot;on  what  those  corgis  eat.  You  could  house  five  hundred  homeless  in  Buckingham  Pal-  ace.&quot;  Therewas  brainwashing  by  tele-  vision  and  the  newspaper  barons,.  ordinary  person  had  a  chance,  because  pap  was  fed  to  the  ordinary  person-  a  deliberate  policy  going  back  into  Vic-  torian  times,  when  education  and  re-  ligion  had  been  geared  to  the  enslave-  ment  of  minds.  The  English  people  had  brought  it  on  themselves,  having  lost  their  spunk,  settling  instead  for  consum-  er  durables.  &quot;What  better  can  you  ex-  pect,&quot;  Harold  demanded,  &quot;after  the  hypocrisy  ofthat  empire  the  bosses  ran?  &quot;  Deirdre  didn't  appear  to  find  any-  thing  specious  in  this  line  of  talk,  which  surprised  her  father.  &quot;Oh,  I  wonder  about  that,&quot;  he  said  himself  from  time  to  time,  but  he  said  it  mildly,  not  wishing  to  cause  an  argument,  and  in  any  case  his  interjections  were  not  acknowledged.  Quite  a  few  of  the  criticisms  Harold  levelled  at  his  own  country  could  be  levelled  at  Ireland  also-and,  Canon  Moran  guessed,  at  many  countries  throughout  the  world.  It  was  strange  that  the  two  neighbor-  ing  islands  had  been  so  picked  out,  al-  though  once  [REDACTED]  was  mentioned  and  the  point  made  that  developments  beneath  the  surface  there  were  a  hope-  fulsign,  that  a  big  upset  was  on  the  way.  &quot;We're  taking  a  walk,&quot;  Harold  said  one  afternoon.  &quot;She's  going  to  show  me  Kinsella's  Barn.&quot;  Canon  Moran  nodded,  saying  to  himself  that  he  disliked  Harold.  It  was  the  first  time  he  had  admit-  ted  it,  but  the  feeling  was  familiar,  The  less  generous  side  of  his  nature  had  always  emerged  when  his  daughters  brought  to  the  rectory  the  men  they'd  become  friendly  with  or  even  proposed  to  marry.  Emma,  the  eldest  girl,  had  brought  several  before  settling  in  the  end  for  Thomas.  Linda  had  brought  only  John,  when  she  was  already  engaged  to  him.  Una  had  mar-  ried  Carley  not  long  after  the  death,  and  Carley  had  not  yet  visited  the  rectory:  Canon  Moran  had  met  him  in  [REDACTED],  where  the  wedding  had  taken  place,  for  in  the  cir-  cumstances  Una  had  not  been  married  from  home.  Carley  was  an  older  man,  an  importer  " b"of  tea  and  wine,  flushed  and  stout,  certainly  not  someone  Canon  Moran  would  have  chosen  for  his  second-youngest  daughter.  But  thenhe  had  thought  the  same  about  Emma's  Thomas  and  about  Linda's  John.  Thomas  was  a  farmer,  sharing  a  sizable  acreage  with  his  father  in  County  Meath.  He  always  brought  to  mind  the  sarcasm  of  an  old  schoolmaster  of  Canon  Moran's  who  used  to  refer  to  a  gang  of  boys  at  the  back  of  the  classroom  as  &quot;farmers'  sons,&quot;  meaning  that  not  much  could  be  expected  of  them.  It  was  an  inaccurate  assumption,  but  even  now,  whenever  Canon  Moran  found  him-  self  in  the  company  of  Thomas,  he  couldn't  help  recalling  it:  Thomas  was  mostly  silent,  with  a  good-natured  smile  that  came  slowly  and  lingered  too  long.  According  to  his  father-and  there  was  no  reason  to  doubt  the  claim-he  was  a  good  judge  of  beef  cattle.  Linda's  Johnwas  the  opposite.  Wiry  and  suave,  he  was  making  his  way  in  the  Bank  of  Ireland-at  present  sta-  tioned  in  Waterford.  He  had  a  tiny  orange-colored  mustache  and  was  good  at  golf.  Linda's  ambition  for  him  was  that  he  should  become  the  Bank  of  Ireland's  manager  in  Limerick  or  Galway,  where  the  insurances  that  went  with  the  position  were  particular-  ly  lucrative.  Unlike  Thomas,  John  talked  all  the  time,  telling  jokes  and  stories  about  the  Bank  of  Ireland's  cus-  tomers.  &quot;'Nothing  is  perfect,&quot;  Frances  had  always  said,  chiding  her  husband  for  an  uncharitableness  he  did  his  best  to  combat.  He  disliked  being  so  particular  about  the  men  his  daughters  chose,  and  he  was  aware  that  other  people  saw  them  differently:  Thomas  would  do  anything  for  you,  Johnwas  fun,  the  middle-aged  Carley  laid  his  success  at  Una's  feet.  But  whoever  the  husbands  of  his  daughters  might  have  been,  Canon  Moran  knew  he'd  have  felt  the  same.  He  was  jealous  of  the  hus-  bands  because  ever  since  his  daughters  had  been  born,  he  had  loved  them  unstintingly.  When  he  had  prayed  after  Frances's  death,  he'd  felt  jeal-  ous  of  God,  who  had  taken  her  from  him.  &quot;&quot;There's  nothing  much  to  see,&quot;  he  pointed  out  when  Harold  announced  that  Deirdre  was  going  to  show  him  Kinsella's  Barn.  &quot;Just  the  ruin  of  a  wall  is  all  that's  left.&quot;  &quot;Harold's  interested,  Father.&quot;  They  set  off  on  their  walk,  leaving  the  old  clergyman  ashamed  that  he  couldnot  like  Harold  more.  It  was  just  his  griminess:  there  was  something  sinister  about  Harold,  something  fur-  tive  about  the  way  he  looked  at  you,  peering  at  you  cruelly  out  of  his  afflict-  ed  face,  not  meeting  your  eye.  Why  was  he  so  fascinated  with  a  country  that  wasn't  his  own?  Why  did  he  refer  so  often  to  &quot;Ireland's  struggle,&quot;  as  if  that  struggle  particularly  concerned  him?  He  hated  walking,he  had  said,  yet  he'd  just  set  out  to  walk  six  miles  through  woods  and  fields,  to  examine  a  ruined  wall.  Canon  Moran  had  wondered  as  sus-  piciously  about  Thomas  and  John  and  Carley,  privately  questioning  every  statement  they  made,  finding  hidden  motives  everywhere.  He'd  hated  the  thought  of  his  daughters'  being  em-  braced  or  even  touched,  and  had  forced  himself  not  to  think  about  that.  He'd  prayed,  ashamed  of  himself  then,  too.&quot;It's  just  a  frailty  in  you,&quot;  Frances  had  said-her  favorite  way  of  cutting  things  down  to  size.  He  sat  fora  while  in  the  afternoon  sunshine,  letting  all  of  it  hang  in  his  mind.  It  would  be  nice  if  they  quar-  -relled  on  their  walk.  It  would  be  nice  if  they  didn't  speak  when  they  re-  turned,  if  Harold  simply  went  away.  But  that  wouldn't  happen,  because  they  had  come  to  the  rectory  with  a  purpose.  He  didn't  know  why  he  thought  that,  but  he  knew  it  was  true:  they  had  come  for  a  reason-some-  thing  that  was  all  tied  up  with  Harold's  fascination  and  with  the  kind  of  person  Harold  was,  with  his  cold  eyes  and  his  afflicted  face.  N  March,  1798,  an  incident  had  taken  place  in  Kinsella's  Barn,  which  at  that  time  had  been  just  a  barn.  Twelve  men  and  women,  ac-  cused  of  harboring  insurgents,  had  been  tied  together  with  ropes  at  the  command  of  a  Sergeant  James.  They  had  been  led  through  the  village  of  Boharbawn-the  Sergeant's  soldiers  on  horseback  on  either  side  of  the  proces-  sion,  the  Sergeant  himself  bringing  up  the  rear.  As  an  act  of  education,  an  example  to  the  inhabitants  of  Bohar-  bawn  and  the  country  people  around,  the  twelve  had  been  herded  into  a  barn  owned  by  a  farmer  called  Kinsel-  la  and  there  burned  to  death.  Kinsel-  la,  who  had  played  no  part  either  in  the  harboring  of  insurgents  or  in  the  execution  of  the  twelve,  was  af-  terward  murdered  by  his  own  farm  laborers.  &quot;Sergeant  James  was  a  Nottingham  man,&quot;  Harold  said  that  evening  at  supper.  &quot;A  soldier  of  fortune  who  didn't  care  what  he  did.  Did  you  know  " b" he  acquired  great  wealth,  Mr.  Mo-  ran?&quot;  &quot;No,  I  wasn't  at  all  aware  of  that,&quot;  Canon  Moran  replied.  &quot;Harold  found  out  about  him,&quot;  Deirdre  said.  &quot;He  used  to  boast  he  was  respon-  sible  for  the  death  ofa  thousand  Irish  people.  It  was  in  Boharbawn  he  reached  the  thousand.  They  rewarded  him  well  forthat.&quot;  &quot;Not  much  is  known  about  Ser-  geant  James  locally.  Just  the  legend  ofKinsella's  Barn.&quot;  &quot;No  way  it's  a  legend.&quot;  Deirdre  nodded;  Canon  Moran  did  not  say  anything.  They  were  eating  cooked  ham  and  salad.  On  the  table  there  was  a  cake  that  Deirdre  had  bought  in  Murphy-Floods  in  Ennis  corthy,  and  a  pot  of  tea.  There  was  a  bunch  of  grapes  from  the  green-  house,  and  a  plate  of  wafer  biscuits.  Harold  was  fond  of  salad  cream,  Canon  Moran  had  noticed:  he  had  a  way  of  hitting  the  base  of  the  jar  with  his  hand,  causing  large  dollops  to  spurt  all  over  his  ham.  He  didn't  place  his  knife  and  fork  together  on  the  plate  when  he'd  finished  but  just  left  them  anyhow.  His  fingernails  were  edged  with  black.  &quot;You'd  feel  sick,&quot;  he  was  saying,  working  the  salad  cream  again.  &quot;You'd  stand  there  looking  at  that  wall  and  you'd  feel  a  revulsion  in  your  stom-  ach.&quot;  &quot;What  I  meant,&quot;  Canon  Moran  said,  &quot;is  that  it  haspassed  into  local  legend.  No  one  doubts  it  took  place,  there's  no  question  about  that.  But  two  centuries  have  almost  passed.&quot;  &quot;And  nothing  has  changed,&quot;  Harold  interjected.  &quot;The  Irish  people  still  share  their  bondage  with  the  twelve  in  Kinsella's  Barn.&quot;  &quot;Round  here,  of  course-&quot;  &quot;It's  not  round  here  that  matters,  Mr.  Moran.  The  struggle's  world-  wide,  the  sickness  is  everywhere  actu-  ally.&quot;  Again  Deirdre  nodded.  She  was  like  a  zombie,  her  father  thought.  She  was  being  used  because  she  was  an  Irish  girl;  she  was  Harold's  Irish  connec-  tion,  and  in  some  almost  frightening  way  she  believed  herself  in  love  with  him.  Frances  had  once  said  they'd  made  a  mistake  with  her.  She  had  wondered  if  Deirdre  had  perhaps  found  all  the  love  they'd  offered  her  too  much  to  bear.  They  were  quite  old  when  Deirdre  was  achild,  the  last  expression  of  their  own  love.  She  was  special  because  of  that.  &quot;At  least  Kinsella  got  his  chips,&quot;  Harold  pursued,  his  voice  relentless.  &quot;At  least  that's  something.&quot;  Canon  Moran  protested.  The  own-  er  of  the  barn  had  been  an  innocent man,  he  pointed  out,.  The  barn  had  simply  been  a  con-  venient  one,  large  enough  for  the  purpose,  with  heavy  stones  near  it  that  could  be  piled  up  against  the  door  be-  fore  the  conflagration.  Kinsel-  la,  that  day,  had  been  miles  away,  ditching  a  field.  &quot;It's  too  long  ago  to  say  where  he  [REDACTED];  Harold  re-  torted  swiftly.  &quot;And  if  he  was  keeping  a  low  profile  in  a  ditch,  it  would  havebeen  by  arrangement  with  the  im-  perial  forces.&quot;  When  Harold  said  that,  there  occurred  in  Canon  Mo-  ran's  mind  a  flash  of  what  appeared  to  be  the  simple  truth,  Harold  was  an  English-  man  who  had  espoused  a  cause  because  it  was  one  through  which  the  status  quo  in  his  own  country  might  be  damaged.  Similar  such  En-  glishmen,  read  about  in  news-  papers,  stirred  in  the  clergy-  man's  mind:  men  from  Ea-  ling  and  Liverpool  and  Wolverhampton  who  had  changed  their  names  to  Irish  names,  who  had  even  learned  the  Irish  lan-  guage,  in  order  to  ingratiate  them-  selves  with  the  new  Irish  revolution-  aries.  Such  men  dealt  out  death  and  chaos,  announcing  that  their  conscience  insisted  on  it.  &quot;Well,  we'd  better  wash  the  dishes,&quot;  Deirdre  said,  and  Harold  rose  obedi-  ently  to  help  her.  HE  walk  to  Kinsella's  Barn  had  taken  place  on  a  Saturday  after-  noon.  The  following  morning  Canon  Moran  conducted  his  services  at  St.  Michael's,  addressing  his  small  Protes-  tant  congregation-twelve  at  Holy  Communion,  eighteen  at  morning  ser-  vice.  He  had  prepared  a  sermon  about  repentance,  taking  as  his  text  Luke  15:32:  &quot;For  this  thy  brother  was  dead,  and  is  alive  again;  and  was  lost,  and  is  found.&quot;  But  at  the  last  moment  he  changed  his  mind  and  spoke  instead  of  the  incident  in  Kinsella's  Barn  nearly  two  centuries  before.  He  tried  to  make  the  point  that  one  horror  should  not  fuel  another,  that  passing  time  con-  tained  its  own  forgiveness.  Deirdre  and  Harold  were  naturally  not  in  the  church,  but  they'd  been  present  at  breakfast-Harold  frying  eggs  on  the  kitchen  stove,  Deirdre  pouring  tea.  He  had  looked  at  them  and  tried  to  think  of  them  as  two  young  people  on  holi-  " b"day.  He  had  tried  to  tell  himself  they'd  come  to  the  rectory  for  a  rest  and  for  his  blessing,  that  he  should  be  grateful  instead  of  fanciful.  It  was  for  his  bless-  ing  that  Emma  had  brought  Thomas  to  the  rectory,  that  Linda  had  brought  John.  Una  would  bring  Carley  in  No-  vember.  &quot;Now,  don'tbe  silly,&quot;  Fran-  ces  would  have  said.  &quot;''The  man  Kinsella  was  innocent  of  everything,&quot;  he  heard  his  voice  insisting  in  his  church.  &quot;He  should  never  have  been  murdered  also.&quot;  Harold  would  have  delighted  in  the  vengeance  exacted  on  an  innocent  man.  Harold  wanted  to  inflict  pain,  to  cause  suffering  and  destruction.  The  end  justified  the  means  for  Harold,  even  if  the  end  was  an  artificial  one,  a  pettiness  grandly  dressed  up.  In  his  sermon  Canon  Moran  spoke  of  such  matters,  naturally  without  mentioning  Harold's  name.  He  spoke  of  how  evil  drained  people  of  their  humor  and  compassion,  how  people  pretended  even  to  them-  selves.  It  was  worse  than  Frances's  death,  he  thought,  as  his  voice  con-  tinued  in  the  church:  it  was  worse  that  Deirdre  should  be  part  of  wickedness.  He  could  tell  that  his  parishioners  found  his  sermon  odd,  and  he  didn't  blame  them.  He  was  confused,  and  considerably  distressed.  In  the  rectory  Deirdre  and  Harold  would  be  waiting  for  him.  They  would  all  sit  down  to  Sunday  lunch  while  plans  for  atrocities  filled  Harold's  mind,  while  Deirdre  loved  him.  &quot;Are  you  well  again,  Mrs.  Davis?&quot;  he  inquired  at  the  church  door  of  a  woman  who  suffered  from  asthma.  &quot;Not  too  bad,  Canon.  Not  too  bad,  thank  you.&quot;  He  spoke  to  all  the  others,  inquiring  about  health,  remarking  on  the  beauti-  ful  autumn.  They  were  farmers  most-  ly,  and  displayed  a  farmer's  gratitude  forthe  satisfactory  season.  He  won-  dered  suddenly  who'd  replace  him  among  them  when  he  retired  or  died.  Father  Hayes  had  had  to  give  up  a  year  before.  The  youngman,  Father  White,  was  always  in  a  hurry.  &quot;Goodbye  so,  Canon,&quot;  Mr.  Wil-  loughby  said,  shaking  hands  as  he  al-  ways  did,  every  Sunday.  It  was  a  long  time  since  there'd  been  the  trouble  about  Eugene  Ryan's  grazing  rights;  three  years  before,  Mr.  Willoughby  had  been  left  a  widower  himself.  &quot;You're  managing  all  right,  Canon?&quot;  he  asked,  as  he  also  always  did.  &quot;Yes,  I'm  all  right,  thank  you,  Mr.  Willoughby.&quot;  Someone  else  inquired  if  Deirdre  was  still  at  the  rectory,  and  he  said  she  was.  Heads  nodded,  the  unspo-  ken  thought  being  that  this  was  nice  for  him-his  youngestdaughter  at  home  again  after  all  these  years.  There  was  forgiveness  in  several  faces-for-  giveness  of  Deirdre,  who  had  been  thoughtless  to  go  off  to  an  egg-pack-  ing  factory.  There  was  the  feeling,  also  unexpressed,  that  the  young  were  a  bit  like  that.  &quot;Goodbye,&quot;  he  said  in  a  general  way.  Car  doors  banged,  engines  start-  ed,  In  the  vestry  he  removed  his  sur-  plice  and  his  cassock  and  hung  them  in  a  cupboard.  \xe2\x80\x9c\xe2\x80\x98  N  Z  E'LL  probably  go  tomorrow,&quot;  Deirdre  said  during  lunch.  K\xe2\x80\x98GO?\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;We'll  probably  take  the  [REDACTED]  bus.&quot;  &quot;I'd  like  to  see  [REDACTED],&quot;  Harold  said.  &quot;And  then  you're  returning  to  Lon-  don?&quot;  &quot;We're  easy  about  that,&quot;  Harold  in-  terjected  before  Deirdre  could  reply.  &quot;I'm  a  tradesman,  Mr.  Moran.  An  electrician.&quot;  &quot;I  know  you're  Harold.&quot;  &quot;What  I  mean  is,  I'm  on  my  own,  I'm  not  answerable  to  the  bosses.  an  electrician,    There's  always  a  bob  or  two  waiting  in  [REDACTED].&quot;  For  some  reason  Canon  Moran  felt  that  Harold  was  lying.  There  was  a  quickness  about  the  way  he'd  said  they  were  easy  about  their  plans,  and  it  didn't  seem  quite  to  make  sense-the  logic  of  not  being  answerable  to  bosses  and  a  bob  or  two  always  waiting  for  him.  Harold  was  being  evasive  about  their  movements,  hiding  the  fact  that  they  would  probably  remain  in  [REDACTED]  for  longer  than  he  implied,  meeting  other  people  like  himself.  &quot;It  was  good  of  you  to  have  us,&quot;  Deirdre  said  that  evening,  all  three  of  them  sitting  around  the  fire  in  the  drawing  room,  because  the  evenings  had  just  begun  to  get  chilly.  Harold  was  reading  a  book  about  Che  Guevara  and  hadn't  spoken  for  several  hours.  &quot;We've  enjoyed  it,  Father.&quot;  &quot;It's  been  nice  having  you,  Deirdre.&quot;  &quot;I'll  write  to  you  from  [REDACTED].&quot;  It  was  safe  to  say  that:  he  knew  she  wouldn't,  because  she  hadn't  before  until  she'd  wanted  something.  She  wouldn't  write  to  thank  him  for  the  rectory's  hospitality,  and  that  would  be  quite  in  keeping.  Harold  was  the  same  kind  of  man  as  Sergeant  James  had  been;  it  didn't  matter  that  they  " b"were  on  different  sides,  Sergeant  James  had  maybe  borne  an  affliction  also-a  humped  back  or  a  withered  arm.  He  had  ravaged  a  country  for  its  spoils,  and  his  most  celebrated  crime  was  neatly  at  hand,  so  that  another  Englishman  could  make  matters  worse  by  attempting  to  make  amends.  In  Harold's  view  the  trouble  had  always  been  that  these  acts  of  war  and  murder  died  beneath  the  weight  of  print  in  his-  tory  books,  and  were  forgotten.  But  history  could  be  rewritten,  and  for  that  Kinsella's  Barn  was  an  inspiration:  Harold  had  journeyed  to  it  as  people  make  journeys  to  holy  places.  &quot;Yes?&quot;  Deirdre  said,  for  while  these  reflections  had  passed  through  Canon  Moran's  mind,  he  had  spoken  her  name,  wanting  to  ask  her  to  tell  him  the  truth  about  her  friend.  He  shook  his  head.  &quot;I  wish  you  could  have  seen  your  mother  again,&quot;  he  said  instead.  &quot;I  wish  she  were  here  now.&quot;  The  faces  of  his  three  sons-in-law  irrelevantly  appeared  in  his  mind:  Carley's  flushed  cheeks,  Thomas's  slow,  good-natured  smile,  John's  little  mustache.  It  astonished  him  that  he'd  ever  felt  suspicious  of  their  natures,  for  they  would  never  let  his  daughters  down.  But  Deirdre  had  turned  her  back  on  the  rectory,  and  what  could  be  expected  when  she  returned  with  a  man?  She  had  never  been  like  Emma  or  Linda  or  Una,  none  of  whom  smoked  Three  Castles  cigarettes  or  wore  clothes  that  didn't  seem  quite  clean.  It  was  impossible  to  imagine  any  of  them  becoming  involved  with  a  revolutionary,  a  man  who  wanted  to  commit  atrocities.  &quot;He  was  just  a  farmer,  you  know,&quot;  he  heard  himself  saying.  &quot;Kinsella.&quot;  Surprise  showed  in  Deirdre's  face.  &quot;It  was  Mother  we  were  talking  about,&quot;  she  reminded  him,  and  he  could  see  her  trying  to  connect  her  mother  with  a  farmer  who  had  died  two  hundred  years  ago,  and  not  being  able  to.  Elderliness,  he  could  see  her  thinking.  &quot;Only  time  he  wandered,&quot;  she  would  probably  say  to  her  friend.  &quot;It  was  good  of  you  to  come,  Deirdre.&quot;  He  looked  at  her,far  into  her  eyes,  admitting  to  himself  that  she  had  al-  ways  been  his  favorite.  When  the  oth-  er  girls  were  busily  growing  up,  she  had  still  wanted  to  sit  on  his  knee.  She'd  had  a  way  of  interrupting  him  no  matter  what  he  was  doing,  arriving  beside  him  with  a  book  she  wanted  him  to  read  to  her.  &quot;Goodbye,  Father,&quot;  she  said  the  next  morning  while  they  waited  in  Enniscorthy  for  the  [REDACTED]  bus.  &quot;Thank  you  for  everything.&quot;  &quot;Yeah,  thanks  a  ton,  Mr.  Moran,&quot;  Harold  said.  &quot;Goodbye,  Harold.  Goodbye,  my  dear.&quot;  He  watched  them  find  their  seats  when  the  bus  arrived,  and  thenhe  drove  the  old  Vauxhall  back  to  Bo-  harbawn,  meeting  Slattery  in  his  post-  man's  van  and  returning  his  salute.  There  was  shopping  he  should  have  done-meat  and  potatoes,  and  tins  of  things  to  keep  him  going.  But  his  mind  was  full  of  Harold's  afflicted  face  and  his  black-rimmed  fingernails,  and  Deirdre's  hand  in  his.  And  then  flames  burst  from  the  straw  that  had  been  packed  around  living  people  in  Kinsel-  la's  Barn.  They  burned  through  the  wood  of  the  barn  itself,  revealing  the  writhing  bodies.  On  his  horse  the  man  called  Sergeant  James  laughed.  Canon  Moran  drove  the  car  into  the  rectory's  ramshackle  garage,  and  walked  around  the  house  to  the  wood-  en  seat  by  the  front  lawn.  Frances  should  come  now  with  two  cups  of  coffee,  appearing  at  the  front  door  with  the  tray  and  then  crossing  the  gravel  and  the  lawn.  He  saw  her  as  she  had  been  when  first  they  lived  at  the  rectory,  when  only  Emma  had  been  born;  but  the  gray-haired  Frances  was  somehow  there  as  well,  shadow-  ingher  youth.  &quot;Funny  little  Deirdre,&quot;  she  said,  placing  the  tray  on  the  seat  between  them.  It  seemed  to  him  that  everything  that  had  just  happened  in  the  rectory  had  to  do  with  Frances-with  meeting  her  for  the  first  time  when  she  was  eighteen,  with  loving  her  and  marry-  ing  her.  He  knew  it  was  a  trick  of  the  autumn  sunshine  that  again  shecrossed  the  gravel  and  the  lawn;  no  more  than  pretense  that  she  handed  him  a  cup  and  saucer.  &quot;Harold's  just  a  talk-  er,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Not  at  all  like  Sergeant  James.&quot;  He  sat  for  a  while  longer  on  the  wooden  seat,  clinging  to  these  words,  knowing  they  were  true.  Of  course  it  was  cowardice  that  ran  through  Har-  old,  inspiring  the  whisper  of  his  sneer  when  he  spoke  of  the  England  he  hated  so.  In  the  presence  of  a  be-  fuddled  girl  and  an  old  Irish  clergy-  man,  England  was  an  easy  target,  and  Ireland's  troubles  were  a  kind  of  target  also.  Frances  laughed,  and  forthe  first  time  her  death  seemed  far  away,  as  her  life  did  too.  In  the  rectory  the  visitors  had  blurred  her  fingerprints  to  nothing,  and  had  made  of  her  a  ghost  that  could  come  back.  The  sunshine  warmed  him  as  he  sat  there;  the  gar-  den  was  less  melancholy  than  it  had  been. "