 b"I HAVE  small  taste  for  obsequies.  I  All  sorts  of  distant  relatives  and  chance  acquaintances  tiptocing  about,  keeping  their  faces  straight.  Voices  must  be  austere  and  low.  That  much  I  remember  from  somewhere  in  the  past.  &quot;Pity  we  should  meet  in  these  sad  circumstances.&quot;  Window  shades  half  drawn.  &quot;Please  omit  flowers&quot;-  but  they  come  anyhow,  great  armloads  of  them,  wreaths,  fancy  sunbursts  mounted  on  trellises,  all  about  to  wilt  away  in  wind  and  weather.  No,  I've  always  avoided  what  funerary  rites  I  could,  but  I  don't  suppose  it's  possible  to  get  out  of  my  own.  The  trouble  is,  I  seem  to  have  had  a  large  lapse  of  memory.  I  ...  crossed  over  ...about  two  weeks  ago,  and  what  I've  been  doing  since  I  can't  sur-  mise,  but  suddenly  I'm  in  my  own  house,  and  some  woman-I  think  she  must  be  a  relative-appears  to  be  in  charge.  A  bossy  sort.  Gray  hair  in  a  stiff,  unstylish  bob.  She  seems  always  to  run,  never  to  stroll.  She's  been  on  the  phone  up  in  my  study  the  livelong  day,  issuing  summonses  to  a  memorial  ser-  vice  in  St.  Luke's  Episcopal.  And  the  service  is  for  me,  though  I  don't  recall  having  been  in  St.  Luke's  for  the  last-  oh,  fifteen  years.  But  exactly  who  am  I?  Even  my  name  escapes  me.  Now,  I  know  that  [REDACTED]-that's  her  name,  if  I'm  not  mistak-  en-arrived  at  my  door  from  wherever  she  lives  and  gave  it  out  that  I'd  had  a  heart  at-  tack.  No  such  thing.  Heart  was  as  good  as  ever.  Splendid.  I  just  got  my  pills  mixed  up,  watching  the  late-late  movie.  When  you're  eighty,  your  doctor  thinks  you  ought  to  have  pills  Well,  the  ones  I  took  didn't  go  with  the  Scotch  I  was  having.  Trite  exit,  but  nothing  planned  in  my  case.  Pill  bottles  all  look  alike  to  me.  I  suppose  I  never  will  know  how  that  movie  came  out.  No  matter.  Yes,  [REDACTED]'s  my  young  cousin.  My  only  living-caernate,  that  is-rela-  tive.  Brought  up  in  this  house.  Mother  took  her  in  after  her  parents  died.  A  little  sister  for  me,  though  I  was  already  grown.  She's  a  lawyer  now,  I  believe.  A  forceful  profes-  sion.  I  saw  herput  a  sheaf  of  newspaper  clippings  into  a  drawer  in  the  second  parlor.  Obituaries.  They'll  have  information.  Yes,  here  they  are,  and  now  I  seem  to  remember  a  few  from  that  blank  fortnight.  I  recall  that  I  felt  a  mite  puffed  up,  but  what  else  could  the  writers  say?  Still  &quot;Nicholas  Lock-  wood  IV  (ah,  yes)  ...  eighty  ...  distinguished  classical  scholar  ...  emeritus  .  ..  great-great-grandson  of  the  founder  of  Lockwood  College,  New  Delft,  New  York  ...leader  of  the  community  ..  .  generous  patron  of  the  arts  .  .  .&quot;  Well,  that's  an  old  family  habit,  and  I  suppose  I  absent-mindedly  kept  it  up.  Did  it  for  Mother's  sake.  But  it  gets  you  onto  committees.  Traps  you.  Inveigles  you  into  making  com-  memorative  speeches.  But  I  was  always  nicely  complimented  on  the  ones  I  made.  &quot;.  .  .  Son  of  the  late  Dr.  Nicho-  las  Lockwood  III  and  Mrs.  Lock-  wood  ...&quot;  I  never  knew  my  father  well.  An  endlessly  busy  man.  He  died  when  I  was  ten.  I  wasn't  as  close  to  him  as  I  was  to  Mother.  Well,  let's  see.  &quot;...  travelled  ...  man  of  the  world  in  every  sense...&quot;  I  suppose  you  could  say  that,  Mother  and  I  went  to  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED]  a  number  of  times.  The  best  hotels  and  restaurants.  Went  to  Rome,  too,  though  that  was  on  my  account.  Ovid  and  so  on.  I  love  Ovid.  Why,  I  made  my  own  trans-  lation  of  the  first  book  of  the  &quot;Ars  Amatoria&quot;  when  I  was  only  seventeen.  /a&gt;.  35  Interlined  it  with  the  Latin  in  a  big  notebook,  all  by  hand,  like  a  medieval  monk.  Mother  didn't  altogether  take  to  Rome.  She  thought  I  studied  too  much.  &quot;Travel  broadens  one,  Nicho-  las,&quot;  she  would  say.  &quot;Come  away  from  all  those  libraries.  Look  about  you.  Observe.&quot;  I  did  get  off  on  my  own  once  and  went  to  [REDACTED],  but  I  missed  her.  I  wonder  if  I'll  find  her  over  here.  Condolence  letters  in  the  drawer,  too-a  lot  of  them,  I  must  say.  And  with  copies  of  [REDACTED]'s  answers  clipped  to  each  one.  How  neat  she  is,  how  depressingly  efficient.  I'll  just  riffle  through  them  and  the  rest  of  the  clippings,  learn  what  they  can  tell  me,  and  mess  them  up  a  bit.  HERE'S  a  sameness  about  con-  dolence  letters,  butthey  can  be  agreeable  enough.  So  thoroughly  ap-  proving.  Here's  one  from  Leitha  Co-  burn.  It's  a  very  nice  letter.  Why  should  it  surprise  me?  Wait  a  minute.  She  and  Mother  feuded  for  twenty  years.  Leitha  was  far  younger  than  Mother  (and  as  huge  as  Mother  was  tiny),  and  she  tried  to  climb  to  the  top  of  the  social  pecking  order.  Over  Mother?  In  this  town?  I've  always  imagined  that  some  of  Leitha's  re-  sentment  must  have  brushed  off  on  me,  but  apparently  not.  In  her  letter  she  says  how  greatly  she  admired  and  respected  me.  Pleasant.  Very  pleas-" b"ant.  [REDACTED]'s  reply  is  almost  curt.  I  would  have  been  more  gracious  if  the  cases  were  reversed.  [REDACTED].  Yes.  Upstairs.  I  must  ad-  mit  that  I  never  really  cared  much  for  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED].  I  don't  know  exactly  why.  Too  much  strength  of  character,  I  suppose,  putting  it  kindly.  She  wanted  to  move  in  and  look  after  me  when  Mother  died,  but  I  managed  to  hold  her  off.  Took  care  of  myself  perfectly  well-until  thatbusiness  with  the  pills,  of  course.  I  left  her  money  enough.  Had  to.  Stays  in  the  family,  by  Mother's  will.  With  the  interest,  [REDACTED]  can  carry  on  and  be  a  generous  patron  of  the  arts.  I'm  sure  she  adores  com-  mittees.  Another  letter.  Wilfrid  Lanfair.  He  says  I  always  provided  his  intellectual  and  aesthetic  goals.  I  was  towering  and  benevolent.  To  be  sure,  I  did  get  him  a  fellowship  in  a  small  college  in  Penn-  sylvania,  and  he  was  endlessly  grate-  ful,  though  I  suppose  I  got  him  the  place  to  keep  him  as  far  as  possible  from  my  office.  He  had  an  unlimited  appetite  for  advice.  An  ugly  little  man.  Bright,  but  hunched  and  stooped  and-oh-fawning.  He  had  what  looked  like  a  fixed  sneer  on  his  olive-  colored  face.  Mother  liked  to  entertain  my  students  in  small  groups  for  tea,  but  she  asked  him  only  once.  He  was  no  ornament.  His  letter  is  quite  artless.  I'm  sure  he  means  every  word.  He  says  he's  coming  forthe  service.  This  is  rather  fun,  this  grab-bag  business  of  fishing  letters  out  at  ran-  dom.  Here's-why,  here's  Alice!  My  wife.  I  remember  her  asquite  beauti-  ful.  She  wasn't  cut  out  to  bea  per-  forming  pianist,  though  she  played  well  enough  here  at  home.  Still,  that  is  why  she  left  me,  or  so  she  said.  She  had  ash-blond  hair,  very  light  and  fine,  and  usually  flying.  She  never  made  the  con-  cert  stage,  as  far  as  I  know,  but  I've  known  nothing  about  her  for  many-  for  over  forty-years.  The  note  is  from  New  [REDACTED]  and  saysthat  she  is  sad  and  that  she  grieves  to  think  how  great  a  loss  I  will  be  to  [REDACTED]  and  to  the  college.  I  wonder  how  Alice  learned  I  hadgone  on.  If  Mother  were  alive,  she  might  have  toldher.  Mother  seemed  to  like  her,  but  now,  in  retrospect,  I  almost  feel  that  she  may  not  have.  Why  would  I  think  so?  She  al-  ways  warmly  encouraged  Alice  in  her  playing.  ANOTHER  day,  the  day  of  my  service.  The  memorializing  day.  Thank  God  the  rites  were  short-but  moving,  truly  moving,  if  I  do  say  so.  At  least,  I  was  greatly  moved,  though  I  saw  few  other  tears  shed.  Of  course,  I  was-am-eighty,  and  somewhat  re-  clusive.  An  esteemed  relic  living  alone.  End  of  the  dynasty.  The  rector  (he's  not  someone  from  Mother's  and  my  day)  did  very  well,  considering  that  he  and  I  had  met  only  twice.  I  suppose  he  was  well  briefed  by  [REDACTED].  He  spoke  in  a  resonant  though  deferential  voice.  &quot;...  student  of  our  classic  birthright  ...a  humble  Chris-  tian  man  ...&quot;  I  wonder  why  she  put  him  up  to  thet.  Humble?  No,  I  wasn't  in  the  least  toplofty,  but  I  did  take  a  good  deal  of  legitimate  pride  in  my  work.  As  forthe  other,  why,  I  went  on  contributing  to  his  church.  A  form  of  attendance.  Mother  always  went  in  person,  considering  it  a  social  duty  (she  was  very  strong  on  duty),  and  I-I  went  along.  So  now  the  cream  of  the  community  will  be  coming  to  the  house  for  sand-  wiches  and  cakes  and  a  ceremonial drink,  and,  no  doubt,  the  requisite  final  tributes  to  the  unseen  protagonist  of  the  day.  I  look  forward  no  end  to  mix-  ing  and  mingling.  It  will  be  some-  thing  like  being  a  boy  again  and  com-  ing  out  at  night  to  sit  on  the  stairs.  All  children  do  it,  I  guess,  but  the  back  stairs  here  pass  very  close  to  the  living  room  and  are  completely  hidden,  I've  heard  a  lot  in  my  time.  Yes,  and  not  all  of  it  when  I  was  a  boy.  There  was  something-some-  thing-after  I  was  grown,  after  I  was  married.  We  were  living  here,  Alice  and  I.  I  was  going  down  the  back  way.  Alice  and  Mother  were  talking,  and  I  went  slowly  and  then  stopped.  Mother  was  vetoing  another  house  that  Alice  had  found  for  us.  Mother  vetoed  them  all  as  not  being  good  enough-  settings  not  imposing  enough-but  she  was  always  patient  and  extremely  kind  about  it.  I  suppose  she  just  wanted  us  to  stay  on.  We  never  did  get  a  house  of  our  own,  but  we  had  a  wing-a  whole  very  nice  apartment-here.  I  tiptoed  back  up,  and  in  a  little  while  Alice  came.  I  could  see  that  she  had  been  crying,  but  I  didn't  make  anything  of  it.  Perhaps  I  should  have.  If  she  lives  in  New  [REDACTED]  now,  she  would  hard-  ly  have  come  to  my  service.  Here's  [REDACTED].  Bustle,  bustle.  Get  out  the  sandwiches.  Get  out  the  cakes.  And  now  who's  coming  up  the  walk?  The  Marquists.  Peter  and-let's  see-  Evelyn.  She  has  blue  hair.  Now  she's  " b"   shaking  hands  with  [REDACTED]  at  the  door.  &quot;He  was  such  a  devoted  [REDACTED];  Evelyn  is  saying.  Well,  Ilived  here,  and  Mother  and  I  were  always  invited  together.  Except,  come  to  think  of  it,  during  the  time  that  Alice  and  I  were  married.  I  re-  member  the  day  she  told  me  she  was  leaving-had  to  leave.  She  spoke  only  of  her  music,  never  of  any  sense  of  confinement  in  this  house.  I  couldn't  answer  at  first,  but  then  I  told  her  I  wouldn't  stand  in  her  way.  It  seemed  the  only  decent  thing  to  do.  Later,  Mother  sputtered  and  looked  shocked,  and  then  wished  her  well  in  her  career,  and  it  occurs  to  me-belatedly  by  for-  ty-odd  years-that  Mother  may  have  wanted  her  to  leave  us  for  her  piano.  Alice  should  have  had  her  own  house.  HATS  past  is  past,  and  I'd  best  get  on  with  my  mingling.  The  place  is  already  full.  I  must  say  people  do  seem  in  excellent  spirits.  That  strikes  me  as  close  to  morbid,  all  things  con-  sidered.  I  keep  milling  and  milling,  eavesdropping  from  a  vantage  point  none  of  them  can  enjoy.  The  athletic  director,  that  great  side  of  beef,  is  talk-  ing  about  football  plays.  Evelyn  Mar-  quist,  of  the  blue  hair,  is  estimating  the  cost  of  some  woman's  dress.  Really!  Here's  a  woman  I  don't  know  hinting  that  Evelyn  had  an  affair  years  ago  with  a  man  in  the  English  Department.  &quot;She  had  a  lot  of  free  evenings.  Her  husband  was  in  Astronomy.&quot;  Gossip  and  smile  and  gossip,  and  get  your  drink  refilled.  Why,  it's  like  a  damned  cocktail  party!  I  have  heard  myself  mentioned  twice,  each  time  as  my  mother's  faith-  ful  son.  Just  that.  Only  that-with  the  addition,  in  one  case,  that  after  her  death  I  became  a  stiff  old  hermit.  Well,  I  kept  my  privacy,  though  I  have  some-  times  walked  the  streets  at  night,  too  chary  of  intruding  to  drop  in  on  any-  one,  but  longing  to.  And  what  about  my  work  and,  yes,  after  all,  the  gifts,  the  endowments?  What  about  myself?  I  think  I  had  humor  in  the  old  days.  I  could  often  make  people  laugh.  I  wasn't  just  tied  to  Mother.  I  went  to  [REDACTED]  alone,  and  I  had  a  few  passing  affairs  down  in  the  city.  I  suppose  I  was  looking  for  Alice,  in  a  way,  though  I  never  came  close  to  finding  her.  The  affairs  were  only  friendly.  No,  Mother  just  brought  me  up  on  duty,  and  I  tried  to  do  mine  for  her-more  from  a  sense  of  obligation  than  affection,  it  may  be.  I  suppose  she  brought  [REDACTED]  up  in  a  similar  way.  She's  a  lot  like  Mother,  when  you  come  down  to  it.  But  I  never  thought  that  I  resented  Mother.  What  a  queer  notion.  She  was  much  younger  than  Father,  and  he  brought  her  into  a  world  she  had  not  known  before.  She  was  suddenly  the  wife  of  the  leading  citizen  of  a  very  " b"close-knit  town.  When  he  died,  she  had  to  maintain  his  status,  the  family's  posi-  tion.  Duty.  She  became  a  sort  of  re-  gent  while  I  was  growing  up.  This  afternoon,  I  remember  her  as  being  softer  when  she  was  young.  She  taught  me  to  read  before  I  went  to  school.  She  would  write  something  on  my  slate,  out  in  the  back  yard.  &quot;Run  to  the  oak  tree,&quot;  say,  or  &quot;Go  and  sit  in  the  swing,&quot;  and  I  would  do  it.  When  apples  were  ripe,  we  would  washthem  with  the  garden  hose  and  later  eat  the  best  of  them  while  she  read  to  me  from  a  book  of  fairy  stories.  Yes,  she  changed,  but  too  gradually  for  me  to  notice,as  time  went  by.  HERE'S  Wilfrid  Lanfair,  older  but  unmistakable,  ugly  as  ever,  off  in  a  corner  by  himself.  I  suppose  it's  touching  that  he  should  come.  I  suppose  I  should  be  grateful.  The  ...  party  ...  has  settled  down  to  a  conge-  nial  buzzing.  [REDACTED]  is  moving  about,  discreetly  emptying  ashtrays,  straighten-  ing  chairs.  Neat-neat  as  always.  But  why  &quot;as  always&quot;?  More  memories  seem  to  be  coming.  I  do  not  haunt,  but  they  do.  I  can  see  [REDACTED]  standing  just  back  of  someone  in  my  study  door-  way.  She  is  young-perhaps  twelve,  thirteen.  Tears  are  in  her  eyes.  She  stares  at  me  and  turns  her  back,  then  runs  headlong  down  the  hall.  The  oth-  er  person  is  a  maid,  and  I  am  berating  her  for  having  tidied  my  study.  She  has  orders  never  to  touch  it.  Mess  though  the  room  was,  I  knew  where  to  find  every  book,  every  scrap  of  paper  in  it.  But  the  maid  hadn't  straightened  my  study,  put  the  books  back  on  the  shelves,  hadn't  put  all  the  papers  in  a  single  neat  pile  on  the  newly  orderly  desk.  [REDACTED]  had  done  it  all.  Done  it  for  me.  I  wanted  to  go  after  her  and  tell  her  I  was  sorry  for  what  I'd  said-  for  all  she'd  overheard-but  I  didn't.  Of  course,  she  had  known  full  well  that  I  meant  every  word.  That  was  a  long,  long  time  ago.  I  can  hear  Leitha  Coburn  (she's  getting  on,  walks  with  a  cane)  saying  the  Lockwoods  all  had  delusions  of  grandeur  but  I  was  a  devoted  son.  Yet  again!  [REDACTED]  has  gone  to  talk  to  Wilfrid.  They're  ill-matched.  A  purposeful  attorney  and  an  obsequious  gargoyle.  This  could  at  least  be  funny.  AMANDA\xe2\x80\x99S  sitting  down  alongside  Wilfrid.  He  looks  sad,  but  that's  only  the  ordinary  set  of  his  features.  Why  am  I  edging  closer  so  cautiously?  They  can't  see  me.  Habit,  I  guess.  Obsolete  sense  of  visibility.  They're  actually  talking  about  me-and  noth-  ing  to  do  with  my  mother!  Wilfrid  is     saying  much  what  he  said  in  his  con-  dolence  letter,  but  he's  going  on  from  there,  [REDACTED]  has  taken  his  hand.  So-sometimes  he  used  to  come  and  stand  across  the  street  here  at  night?  Just  to  look  at  the  house?  What  is  he  getting  at?  He  was  subject  to  dread-  ful  depressions,  but  I  could  always  straighten  him  out?  What's  he  talk-  ing  about?  I  never  got  him  out  of  his  darker  moods.  I  didn't  know  he  had  them.  &quot;The  nearness,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Just  the  thought  that  he  was  there.&quot;  Well,  I'll  be  damned.  He  says  he  stood  across  the  street  a  long  time  the  night  before  he  left.  Soaking  me  up,  I  suppose,  for  heaven's  sake!  Why,  yes,  even  so.  To  carry  along  as  much  as  he  could  to  his  own  future  students.  My  God!  To  give  them  the  feel  of  the  classics  that  I  had  given  him.  He  goes  on  and  on  like  that.  [REDACTED]  nods.  She  squeezes  his  hand  a  little  and  says,  &quot;I  have  something  to  give  you.&quot;  She  goes  upstairs,  and  Wilfrid  sits  staring  down  at  his  feet.  He  looks  sadder  than  ever-truly  sad-and  now  not  so  very  unsightly.  I  so  wish  I  could  talk  to  him.  I  so  wish  I  had.  I  wish  I  could  talk  to  them  all.  I  wish  I  could  thank  Wilfrid  for  all  that  misplaced  admiration.  I  wish  I  could  tell  Alice  that  I  know  at  last  why  she  left,  and  that  I  longed  to  have  her  back.  Yes,  Mother  did  drive  her  to  it  bit  by  bit,  but  Mother  was  another  one  I  was  close  to  but  never  quite  knew.  Doing  my  duty,  holding  myself  aloof  even  while  dancing  attendance.  I  went  everywhere  with  her,  but  I  never  gave  her  much  love.  Would  things  have  been  different  all  along  if  I  had  man-  aged  that?  Perhaps.  [REDACTED]  is  coming  down  again  with  a  book  in  her  hand-a  large  old  bat-  tered  notebook.  Why,  it's  my  Ovid  translation!  &quot;I  was  going  to  keep  it,&quot;  she  says  to  Wilfrid,  &quot;but  I  think  it's  you  who  must  have  it.&quot;  He  looks  at  it,  blinks,  and  tries  hard  to  refuse,  but  she  persists,  and  at  last  he  takes  it  and  kisses  her.  They  are  both  holding  back  from  weeping.  For  me.  Old  Wilfrid,  who  will  keep  the  book  safe.  [REDACTED],  speaking  for  me,  doing  my  errand,  doing  my  work. "