 b"DEAR  CONSTITUENT:  As  1980  is  evidently  under  way,  I  am  completing  near-  ly  a  decade  of  striving-packed  years  as  your  full-time  Representative  in  Wash-  ington,  D.C.  I  want  you  to  know  how  firmly  I  have  urged  you  to  support  me,  and  how  deeply  I  appreciate  the  op-  portunity  to  exceed  the  authority  you  have  vested  in  me.  As  your  Represen-  tative,  I  played  a  cameo  role  in  last  year's  Legislative  Session,  during  which  a  substantial  number  of  new  laws  were  enacted  under  or  near  my  sponsorship  or  with  my  vigorous  opposition.  Here  are  some  highlights:  etoughened  penalties  against  juve-  niles  who  escape  from  Mitchell-Lama  housing  e  outlawed  lethal  incentives  estreamlined  &quot;Saturday  Night  Spe-  cial&quot;  judicial-selection  procedures  emandated  pending  evaluation  esimulated  energy  As  your  full-time  Representative,  I  have  been  fully  concerned  with  ex-  panding  my  priority  concerns.  Here  are  some  focal  points:  eteen-age  grand  juries  ecostly  and  inefficient  urban  coali-  tions  e&quot;head  shops&quot;  at  consulates  and  missions  to  U.N.  esubhuman  conditions  in  Off-Track  Betting  parlors  eno-fault  gang  warfare  eabuse  addiction  efiasco  control  eclearinghouse  habitability  eombudsman  repatriation  etransportation  bootlegging  eturnstile  preservation  eaddiction  abuse  Uoiy  ProsiEm  Until  recent  years,  the  ugly  prob-  lem  of  absentee  housing  has  been  vir-  tually  ignored.  Now  a  full-page  report  prepared  by  my  staff  shows  that  &quot;ugly  problem&quot;  is  merely  one  of  those  pretty  sociological  euphemisms.     My  full-time  family  hasbeen  a  source  of  great  strength  to  me  during  my  eleven  years  in  the  House.  L.  to  r.:  My  family.  Tricorr  Levers  or  UnEmPpLor-  mENT:  ArBATRoss  or  SAFETY  NET?  Amid  some  unemployment,  from  men  to  women,  such  problems  are  off-  set  by  a  situation  that  is  serious  but  not  critical,  yet  nonetheless  stops  short  of  complete  success.  Not  only  have  unem-  ployment  figures  belied  employment  but  also  employment  has  not  prevented  unemployment.  It  is  imperative  that  we  note  that  the  battle  seems  to  go  on  without  end.  Recent  events  would  in-  dicate  that  it  does.     On  December  3,  1979,  I  telephoned  the  Bu-  reau  des  Elections  in  [REDACTED]  to  ask  whether  the  French  government  intended  to  hold  full,  free,  and  democratic  elections  in  the  near  fu-  ture,  as  promised.  Seated  next  to  me  are  full-  time  executives  of  the  Bell  Telephone  Com-  pany,  which  placed  the  long-distance  call.  A  Sensational  PLACE  Individual  efforts  directed  against  the  spectre  of  federal  takeover  of  pri-  vate  businesses  can\xc2\xbb  succeed.  On  De-  cember  15th,  district  resident  John  Occupant  tasted  victory  when  John's  Restaurant  opened  to  the  public  after  a  series  of  meetings  with  accountants  and  wholesalers  from  the  area.  On  a  full-  time  study  of  the  location,  I  saw  the  fine  comments  which  informed  and  ar-  ticulate  local  spokespersons  inscribed  on  photographs  decorating  the  walls  of  this  community  project:  eDear  Johnny,  You've  been  fabu-  lous.  Thank  you  for  your  hospitality.  e  John's  has  the  BEST  Italian  food!  \xc2\xabTo  Johnny,  with  love  and  appre-  ciation.  eTo  John,  Mucho  aloha!  eJohn:  And  to  think  I  weighed  90  pounds  when  I  met  you!  e  To  John  :  W  hat  a  fun  dinner.  Kind-  est  regards  always.  TV  AprpEarancE  On  Sunday,  December  23rd,  I  gave  an  interview  on  the  NBC  program  &quot;NewsNewsNews.&quot;  Following  is  a  brief  excerpt  from  the  transcript  (&quot;A&quot;  is  the  voice  of  your  Congressman)  :  Q:  A  lot  of  people  are  against  it.  A:  Well,  I  must  say,  Bill,  particu-  larly  as  a  Congressman,  people  can  be  for  or  against  a  lot  of  things-  Q:  Are  you  for  or  are  you  saying  you're  against  it?  A:  -and  some  of  their  reasons,  you  know,  some  of  them  have  some  merit.  Q:Now,  what  is  your  position?  A:  Yeah,  I  mean,  not  only  that  but  I  want  to  emphasize  repeatedly,  Bill,  that  we  frankly  just  don't  have  the  an-  swer,  though,  to  that,  as  yet.  And  we  wouldn't  in  Red  4368696e61  be  able  to  have  this  full,  free,  and  open  discussion,  by  the  way.  And  Bill,  I  want  to  congratu-  late  you  for  asking  me.  The  questions  have  been  just  brilliant.  Q:  Well,  itis  certainly  no  secret  that  you  have  been  a  guest  in  our  studio  today.  Thank  you.  Errort  Pays  OrFr  I  am  pleased  to  announce  that  [REDACTED]  Customs  officials  at  J.F.K.  Interna-  tional  [REDACTED]  recently  confiscated  a  quantity  of  Genoese  bobbin  lace  found  concealed  between  the  pages  of  a  copy  of  &quot;Childe  Harold's  Pilgrimage,&quot;  by  George  Gordon,  Lord  Byron.  QUESTIONNAIRE  This  month's  question  relates  to  ru-  mor  dispelment.  Which  of  the  follow-  ing  strategies  would  you  support?  fire  into  the  air  [fire  over  the  heads  of  the  crowd  ]fire  in  the  neighborhood  of  the  core  group  [bomb  only  those  using  provocative  extemporaneous  remarks  [_]pump  five  bullets  into  the  rumor  itself  Latin  AmERICA  Earlier  this  month  I  visited  the  southern  cone  of  Latin  [REDACTED],  where  I  enjoyed  touring  the  Avalanche  of  Smut.  I  also  renewed  contact  with  the  many  fine  full-time  Latin-556e6974656420537461746573n  contacts  I  maintain  through  an  unof-  ficial  instrumentality  in  corporate  form.  While  we  cannot  expect  to  find  a  com-  plete  solution  at  the  federal  level,  I  was  heartened  by  the  response  from  a  Chilean  general.  Under  my  question-  ing,  he  admitted,  &quot;You  see,  there  are  no  guns  here.  We  are  throwing  them  all  into  the  desert.&quot;     Ina  spontancous  gesture  of  concern,  I  visited  my  personal  family  in  the  hospital.  " b"Tuz  1980  ErEctiON  Whoever  my  opponents  will  be,  their  records  as  legislators  and  as  per-  sons  who  were  active  during  the  Nixon  Administration  will  raise  questions.  There  is  already  a  growing  and,  I  be-  lieve,  dangerous  tendency.  A  lack  of  leadership  is  no  substitute  for  inaction.  That's  why  I  challenged  all  of  my  op-     ponents  lest  year-in  head-to-head  de-  bate,  singlehandly.  HAT  kinds  of  things  worry  you?  Probably  the  same  things  that  worry  me.  Hopes.  Dreams.  Major  thrusts.  The  night  after  I  first  took  the  oath  of  office,  in  1971,  I  dreamed  that  someone  suggested  I  go  somewhere  or  i     buy  some  tickets  to  something.  By  1979,  I  had  learned  how  to  meet  tough  positions  head  on.  That's  why  I  want  full-time  to  continue  to  serve  you  in  the  House  of  Representatives.  There  is  much  more  to  be  said.  Please  vote  for  me  so  that  I  can  say  it.  RECYCLED  ON  PRINTED  PAPER  "