 b"SOME  years  ago,  in  [REDACTED],  a civil  servant  named  Christian  Thrale,  who  was  then  twenty-  seven,  unexpectedly  had  an  evening  free  from  weekend  work  at  a  govern-  ment  office.  In  retrospect  it  seemed  to  have  been  an  evening  free,  also,  of  himself.  He  did  not  often  go  alone  to  a  concert  or  anything  else  of  the  cul-  tural  kind.  On  your  own,  you  were  at  the  mercy  of  your  responses.  Accom-  panied,  on  the  other  hand,  you  re-  mained  in  control,  made  assertive  sighs  and  imposed  hypothetical  requirements.  You  could  also  deliver  your  opinion,  seldom  quite  favorable,  while  walking  home.  As  to  pleasure,  he  was  suspicious  of  anything  that  relieved  his  feelings.  The  concert,  on  that  particular  eve-  ning,  was  furthermore  too  easy  to  get  into.  Yet,  passing  in  light  rain,  he  saw  posters  and  bought  a  seat  on  the  aisle.  He  was  scarcely  in  place  when  he  had  to  stand  again  to  let  two  women  into  the  row.  He  lifted  the  folded  mackintosh,  the  hat,  and  dampum-  brella  he  had  dumped  on  the  empty  seat  alongside;  and  the  younger  wom-  an,  having  stood  back  for  the  elder,  now  sat  there.  He  had  noticed  her  large-eyed  good  looks  at  once  when  she  glanced  up,  saying  Sorry.  But  as  the  struggling  out  of  coats  went  on,  and  the  drawing  off  of  stubborn  gloves,  he  lost  interest.  It  was  the  other  woman  he  next  became  aware  of.  The  older  woman  was  small  and  dark  and  wore  a  red  felt  circlet  on  her  head,  trimmed  with  navy  ribbon.  Around  her  shoulders  there  was  looped  a  swag  of  sharp  little  furs-the  mouth  of  one  fur  fastened,  peglike  and  with  needle  teeth,  on  the  paw  of  the  other.  In  her  lap  a  handbag  was  crammed  squat,  and  she  dried  this  with  rustling  paper.  That  she  was  in  some  way  re-  lated  to  the  girl,  though  not  of  an  age  to  be  her  mother,  was  evident  from  their  manner  together.  It  was  hard  to  summarize,  even  in  guesses,  even  in  his  mind,  the  relation  of  girl  to  woman.  Until,  as  the  musi-  cians  started  to  appear  and  more  arriv-  als  pushed  along  the  rows,  the  phrase  came  to  him  :  she  is  in  her  power.  The  older  woman  had  been  coaxed  for  an  outing,  in  the  desperation  of  an  interminable  Sunday.  That  she  expect-  ed  nothing  of  the  music  was  apparent  from  her  turning  this  way  and  that,  providing  her  own  discordant  tuning,  up.  &quot;How  people  rig  themselves  out,  will  you  just  look  at  that  one.  I  ask  you.  They  might've  done  the  place  up    a  bit  by  now.  Anyone  would  think  the  war  was  still  on.&quot;  The  girl  sat  quietly,  an  evasionshe  would  not  be  allowed  to  get  away  with.  &quot;Well,  Grace,  you're  cheery  I  must  say.  First  you  tell  me  I'm  depressed,  and  then  you  don't  have  a  solitary  word  to  say  for  yourself.&quot;  Now  that  he  knew  the  association  was  founded  in  fear,  he  still  wondered  whether  they  were  cousins,  perhaps,  or  aunt  and  niece.  When  she  turned  his  way,  the  wide,  high  slopeof  the  little  woman's  bright  cheeks  recalled  the  girl's.  &quot;Not  a  breath  of  air  in  here.&quot;  She  flapped  the  furs  on  her  breast,  and  the  pronged  fox  face  snapped  up  and  down.  &quot;That's  the  way  you  catch  things.  Re-  mind  me  to  gargle  when  we  get  home.&quot;  The  lights  lowered.  Throughout  the  first  work  Christian  was  aware  of  the  woman  simmering  there,  a  boiling  turned  low.  The  girl  between  them  was  impassive,  hands  lightly  clasped,  slim  knees  aligned  under  dark  skirt.  At  the  interval  the  little  woman,  mur-  muring  to  the  girl,  got  up  and  went  out  to  the  Ladies'.  She  was  no  sooner  down  the  aisle  than  Christian  spoke.  He  had  never  done  such  a  thing  in  life,  but  knew  there  was  no  time  to  lose.  They  got  swiftly  through  some  piffie  about  Sibe-  lius,  and  by  the  time  the  duenna  re-  turned  Christian  had  written  a  phone  number  and  suggested  Saturday.  All  this,  which  should  have  seemed  ex-  traordinary  to  him,  appeared  inevitable  and  entirely  right.  He  got  to  his  feet,  and  Grace  said,  &quot;Dora,  this  is  Mr.  Thrale.&quot;  He  saw  Dora's  face  flash  with  the  realization  that  they  had  stolen  a  march  on  her,  and  with  an  impulse  to  spoil  things.  Dora  saw  a  sandy  man,  quite  tall,  who  could  easily  present  a  threat.  Christian  had  discovered  they  were  half  sisters  and  from  [REDACTED].  When  the  concert  was  over,  he  put  them  in  a  cab.  He  did  not,  during  that  week,  tell  himself  I  must  have  been  besotted,  even  though  besotted  was  one  of  his   words.  He  knew  that  something  out  of  the  ordinary  had  been  set  in  motion.  But  did  wonder  if  it  would  survive  reunion  with  Grace,  whose  attraction  could  well  decline  at  an  address  of  fur-  nished  rooms.  One  would  then  be  faced  with  the  process  of  coming  to  one's  senses,.  To  do  him  justice,  Christian  Thrale  feared  rather  than  hoped  for  this.  N  the  Saturday,  Christian  went  to  W.11  by  taxi,  to  take  off  the  pall.  The  stairs  were  freshly  painted  white  and  had  a  scarlet  carpet.  There  was  a  glass  jar  of  yellow  flowers  on  a  landing.  It  had  not  occurred  to  him  he  him-  self  might  have  brought.  As  he  went  up,  he  was  shamed  by  a  sense  of  adventure  that  delineated  the  reduced  scale  of  his  adventures.  After  the  impetuous  beginning,  he  would  puzzle  them  by  turning  out  staid  and  cautious.  In  a  gilt  mirror  near  the  door  he  surprised  himself,  still  young.  Grace's  beauty  was  a  vindication.  He  had  relied  on  it,  and  it  did  not  let  him  down.  She  was  calm,  as  before,  and  smiled.  There  were  the  gold  flowers  again,  on  a  table.  Christian  sat  on  a  furnished-looking  settee.  No,  no  diffi-  culty  at  all  finding  the  address  and  knew  the  area  quite  well,  actually,  from  once  having  had  a  dentist  nearby.  A  kettle  whistling  in  a  kitchenette  was  swiftly  muzzled  by,  he  assumed,  Dora.  Another  girl-dark,  tall-brought  in  the  tray.  My  sister.  A  place  was  cleared  for  cups  and  plates.  The  dark  girl  was  called  Caroline,  or  Caro.  Christian  sat  again,  and  Caro  oppo-  site,  with  Grace  bent  between  them:  Is  that  too  strong,  these  are  from  Fort-  nums.  With  a  silver  blade  she  laid  open  a  quadrant  of  cake.  A  little  furrow  of  concentration  between  her  eyes  was  beguiling  as  the  grooved  brow  of  a  kit-  ten.  On  his  sofa  Christian  was  a  man  on  a  riverbank,  not  so  much  gazing  at  the  other  side  as  aware  of  a  current  into  which  he  must  plunge.  He  saw  Grace  shining  and  rippling  over  afternoon  stones.  She  leadeth  me  beside  the  still  waters.  Opposite,  Caro's  still  waters  ran  deep.  Unfortunately,  Dora  has  had  to  go  to  Wigmore  Street  to  pick  up  her  new  glasses.  Thank  God.  It  was  clear  that  Dora  battened  on  the  girls'  occasions,  might  be  absent  from  necessity  but  never  from  tact.  As  in  the  concert  hall,  it  was  evident  they  must  make  the  most  of  the  time  before  she  returned,  get  things  to  a  pitch  where  she  could  not  reverse  them.  In  relief  at  no  Dora,  Christian  sat  easy,  had  a  second  cup,  " b"and  was  pleased.  Into  the  furnished  staleness  there  came  cool  air  from  a  window,  and  a  scent  of  bath  salts  or  cologne.  Against  the  light,  Caro's  head  and  shoulders  were  remarkable.  Once  or  twice  he  made  her  laugh.  But  when  he  leaned  for  biscuits  felt  her  eyes  on  him  as  if.  As  if,  for  instance,  she  knew  about  the  sense  of  adventure  on  the  stairs.  He  found  these  women  uncommonly  self-possessed  for  their  situation.  They  seemed  scarcely  conscious  of  being  Aus-  tralians  in  a  furnished  flat.  He  would  have  liked  them  to  be  more  impressed  by  his  having  come,  and  instead  caught  himself  living  up  to  what  he  thought  might  be  their  standards  and  hoping  they  would  not  guess  the  effort  in-  curred.  Quickness  came  back  to  him  like  a  neglected  talent  summoned  in  an  emergency:  as  if  he  rose  in  trepidation  to  a  platform  and  cleared  his  throat  to  sing.  The  room  itself  appeared  unawed  by  him-not  from  any  disorder  but  from  very  naturalness.  A  room  where  there  had  been  expectation  would  have  conveyed  the  fact-by  a  tension  of  plumped  cushions  and  placed  maga-  zines,  a  vacancy  from  unseemly  objects  bundled  out  of  sight;  by  suspense  slow-  ly  dwindling  in  the  curtains.  This  room  was  quite  without  such  anxiety.  On  its  upholstery,  the  nap  of  the  usual  was  un-  disturbed.  No  tribute  of  preparation  had  been  paid  him  here,  unless  perhaps  the  flowers,  which  were  fresh  and  which  he  himself  if  he  had  only  thought.  It  was  a  high  room  that  Grace  said  had  seen  better  days.  Christian  said,  &quot;I  can't  imagine  a  better  day  than  this.&quot;  A  few  objects,  and  the  books,  evi-  dently  their  own.  There  was  a  warped  picture  of  a  woman's  head  painted  on  wood.  &quot;Caro  got  it  in  Seville.&quot;  &quot;It's  an  angel.&quot;  Caro  had  been  three  months  in  537061696e  for  the  language.  To  do  this  she  had  gone  as  nursemaid  to  an  English  fam-  ily,  who  had  afterward  taken  her  to  [REDACTED]  and  to  4974616c79.  Caro  was  now  working-serving  was  what  she  said-  in  a  bookshop  while  studying  for  a  gov-  ernment  examination.  It  was  even  worse  with  Grace,  who  was  in  the  complaints  department  at  Harrods.  There  could  be  no  outcome  to  such  activities  but  marriage.  He  knew  all  about  Caro's  examination,  and  she  would  never  pass  it.  It  had  only  re-  cently  been  opened  to  women,  and  he  had  never  heard  of  a  woman  passing  it.  &quot;It  is  stiff,&quot;  he  said.  It  did  not  even  lead  to  prospects:  you  came  in  at  the  lower  level;  it  was  a  way  of  having     NOVEMBER  26,  1979  people  with  languages  without  giving  them  career  service.  &quot;An  exploitation,  if  you  like,&quot;  he  concluded.  She  said,  &quot;I  don't  like,&quot;  and  took  a  cream  wafer.  &quot;Peek  Frean&quot;  she  read,  before  biting  the  lettering  in  half.  &quot;I  shall  confine  myself  to  saying,&quot;  he  began  again,  and  stopped.  He  did  not  know  where  he  got  these  expres-  sions,  I  confine  myself,  I  shall  refrain  from,  I  withhold  comment  upon-as  if  he  had  placed  himself  under  house  ar-  rest.  Perhaps  it  was  from  his  parents.  Or  it  might  be  racial  memory.  He  asked  with  whom  had  she  dealt,  where  was  she  to  present  herself.  And  over  the  officials  and  bureaus  of  her  answers  assented  with  knowing  confirmation-  as  a  Greek  will  sagely  nod  at  the  men-  tion  of  Hesiod  or  Pindar  even  if  he  has  never  read  a  line  of  them.  The  situation  of  Grace  was  more  pointed  still,  an  abeyance.  What  could  she  possibly  learn  in  a  complaints  de-  partment?  &quot;I,&quot;  said  Grace  Bell,  &quot;have  learned  that  a  soft  answer  does  not  turn  away  wrath.&quot;  The  girls  fell  to  laughing  to-  gether,  their  bodies  slightly  inclined  each  to  each  even  across  a  tea  table.  Caro  told  him,  &quot;[REDACTED]  is  our  achievement.  Our  career,  for  the  time  being.&quot;  As  if  she  read  through  his  fore-  head  like  glass.  &quot;Having  got  here  is  an  attainment;  being  here  is  an  occupa-  tion.&quot;  Like  a  creature  whose  lair  has  been  observed,  he  shifted  to  new  cover.  &quot;Very  sensible  not  to  plan  too  far  ahead.&quot;  They  would  talk  about  him  after-  ward,  and  Caro  would  adjudicate.  He  did  not  know  if  Grace  would  abide  by  the  verdict  or  not.  Caro  would  bite  him  in  half  like  a  biscuit.  He  wondered  how  Caro  stood  up  to  Dora,  and  for  a  moment  would  have  been  curious  to  see  them  together.  When  Caro  got  to  her  feet,  when  she  brought  hot  water  or  closed  a  window,  she  moved  with  consequence  as  if  existence  were  not  trivial.  When  these  girls  were  small  their  parents  had  drowned  in  a  capsized  fer-  ry.  Christian  was  to  refer  to  this  as  &quot;a  boating  accident'&quot;  for  the  rest  of  his  life.  &quot;And  do  you  then,&quot;  to  show  his  in-  dependence  of  their  futures,  &quot;mean  to  try  out  life  here,  and  return  to-was  it?  -Sydney?&quot;  Caro  laughed.  &quot;Life  doesn't  work  that  way.&quot;  As  if  she  knew,  and  he  did  not.  A  plate  on  which  biscuits  had  lain  was  old,  chipped,  Italian,  and  had  a  " b"border  of  rustic  lettering.  Caro  had  brought  it  from  Palermo.  Saying,  &quot;May  I\xc2\xb0,&quot;  Christian  took  it  up  and  read  aloud,  turning  the  disc  to  decipher:  &quot;Ch  d  invidia  campa,  dispera-  to  muore.  Who  lives-if  I'm  right'-in  envy,  dies  in  de-  spair.&quot;  He  put  it  back  on  the  table.  The  angel  had  been  charming;  the  plate  had  a  sharper  edge.  How  happy  he  was,  all  the  same.  Christian,  who  often  feared  to  find  himself  in  ob-  scure  conditions,  in  a  mono-  chrome  where  his  own  colors  might  not  prove  fast.  Given  the  present  circumstances-the  furnished  room,  the  brute  fact  of  Sydney,  the  desk  at  Har-  rods,  and  the  examination  al-  ready  as  good  as  failed-this  should  now  havebeen  over-  whelmingly  the  case.  But  was  not,  by  any  means.  These  women  provided  something  new  to  Christian-  a  clear  perception  unmingled  with  suspiciousness.  Their  dis-  tinction  was  not  only  their  beauty  and  their  way  with  one  another,  their  crying  need  of  a  rescue  for  which  they  made  no  ap-  peal  whatever;  but  a  high  humorous  candor  for  which-he  could  frame  it  no  other  way-they  would  be  willing  to  sacrifice.  Christian  was  happy.  Grace  had  done  that  for  him.  She  will  make  you  very  happy.  The  degree  of  good  faith  being  re-  quired  of  him  amounted  to  a  mild  abandon,  but  he  did  not  want  to  botch  this  afternoon.  His  chances  in  life  seemed  bound  up  with  the  colors  of  girls'  dresses,  the  streaks  of  curtain  at  windows,  a  painted  angel;  and  even  with  a  tea  cozy  of  crocheted  orange,  felted  with  handling,  that  said  every-  thing  about  the  landlord.  Turned  to  him,  there  were  the  two  long  figures  in  light.  He  would  have  liked  to  think,  Sargent;  but  feared  something  more  disruptive,  like  Vermeer.  There  were  intervals  when  he  knew  that  he  was  the  one  in  need  of  rescue,  that  Grace  might  easily  do  better  than  take  up  with  him,  and  that  Caro  would  pass  the  examination  ahead  of  all  the  rest.  But  health  was  hard  to  maintain:  self-importance  flickered  up  like  fever.  There  was  something  else  now,  with  the  three  of  them  in  that  room:  some  event  or  at  least  a  moment.  Whatever  this  was,  the  excitement  in  it  was  dis-  placing  the  calm,  the  charm.  It  was     quickly  past.  Christian  knew  that  Grace  was  as  much  as  he  could  manage;  she  was  already  a  departure,  though  of  his  own  unexpected  choosing.  Caro  was  beyond  his  means.  He  was  like  a  states-  man  faced  with  a  capital  decision.  On  the  brink  of  the  sofa  he  renounced  any  possibility  of  Caro.  There  was  deliver-  ance  in  this,  and  a  flow  of  propitiatory  emotion  toward  Grace.  Now  that  Caro  had  proved  too  much  for  him,  he  almost  disliked  her.  Grace  was  telling  about  a  customer  who  had  sent  back  a  dead  canary  in  a  box,  for  refund.  Christian  must  soon  make  himself  clear.  A  third  meeting  would  be  commitment  of  a  kind,  to  a  chain  of  new  circumstances.  &quot;And  got  it  back  stuffed,  from  Taxidermy,  with  a  bill  for  five  guin-  eas!&quot;  Christian  was  laughing  out  loud  with  relief.  He  could  hear  this  laughter  of  his  that  showed  what  he  could  do  when  given  a  chance.  In  his  laughter  it  was  as  if  he  already  took  Grace  in  his  arms.  She  came  downstairs  to  see  him  out.  Dora,  now  in  sight  along  the  street,  performed  her  usual  function  of  bring-  ing  matters  to  a  head.  He  asked  Grace  to  dine  with  him  during  the  week,  and  she  made  an  arrangement  for  Wednes-  day.  They  repeated  time  and  place  like vows,  safe  forever  from  the  sharp  heels  of  Dora  on  the  path.  Christian  quite  strongly  did  not  want  to  see  Dora,  but  waited  to  greet  her  and  hoped  for  credit  from  Grace.  Dora's  hair  was  netted  ina  veiling  cap,  like  thatch  under  wire.  She  dropped  her  key,  and  bumped  her  head  on  Chris-  tian's  as  they  both  bent  down  for  it.  This  in  turn  gave  rise  to  false  little  gasps  of  overdone  apology.  Christian  knew  the  type.  She  was  one  of  those  persons  who  will  squeeze  into  the  same  partition  of  a  revolving  door  with  you,  on  the  pretext  of  causing  less  trouble.  By  the  time  he  got  home  he  had  for-  gotten  Caro.  It  was  hard  to  credit  that  she  had  been,  however  briefly,  the  ob-  ject  of  a  capital  decision.  Long  before  Wednesday  he  began  to  wish  for  Grace.  And  when  the  evening  finally  came  was  more  charming  to  her  than  he  had  ever  been  to  anybody  in  his  life.  "