 b"AT  nine  in  the  evening  the  poor-  A  house  attendant  extinguished  the  kerosene  lamp.  He  left  burning  a  single  tallow  candle,  which  soon  began  to  flicker.  Outside,  the  frost  glistened,  but  inside  the  poorhouse  it  was  warm.  The  gravely  ill  lay  in  beds.  The  others  slept  on  straw  pallets  on  the  floor.  Next  to  the  oven  lay  Zeinvel  the  Thief,  whom  peasants  had  crippled  when  they  caught  him  stealing  a  horse,  and  Mottke  the  Beadle,  who  for  a  long  time  had  served  as  beadle  to  a  bogus  rabbi  named  Yontche,  a  cobbler  who  donned  a  Chassidic  rabbi's  attire  and  travelled  through  the  Polish  towns  al-  legedly  performing  miracles.  They  had  gone  as  far  as  [REDACTED]  together.  Yontche  was  subsequently  caught  in  the  act  with  a  servant  girl  and  fled  to  [REDACTED].  Mottke,  too,  tried  to  escape  to  [REDACTED],  but  he  was  detained  on  Ellis  Island  and  then  deported  because  of  trachoma.  Later  he  became  half  blind.  Both  Mottke  the  Beadle  and  Zeinvel  the  Thief  had  lived  in  the  poorhouse  for  years,  although  in  sepa-  rate  rooms  most  of  the  time.  Zeinvel  was  tall,  and  as  black  as  a  gypsy,  with  slanted  eyes,  a  head  of  black  hair,  and  a  mouth  full  of  white  teeth.  Besides  being  lame,  he  suffered  from  consumption.  As  a  young  man  he  hadhad  the  reputation  of  being  a  dan-  dy.  He  managed  to  trim  his  beard  even  in  the  poorhouse.  Mottke  was  small,  round  like  a  barrel,  with  tufts  of  flax-  blond  hair  around  his  scabby  skull  and  with  a  yellow  beard  that  grew  on  one  cheek  only.  His  eyes  were  always  swol-  len  and  half  closed.  He  was  something  of  a  scholar,  and  it  was  said  that  he  and  Yontche  used  to  switch  roles.  One  month  Yontche  would  be  the  rabbi  and  Mottke  the  bea-  dle;  the  next  month  it  was  the  other  way  around.  After  awhile  the  tallow  can-  dle  went  out.  A  full  moon  was  shining  outside  and  its  light  reflected  up  from  the  snow  upon  the  poorhouse  walls.  Zeinvel  andMottke  never  went  to  sleep  before  midnight.  They  chatted  and  told  stories.  Mottke  was  saying,  &quot;Cold  outside,  eh?  It's  going  to  get  even  colder.  Here  in  [REDACTED]  the  cold  is  still  bearable,  but  when  a  frost  comes  up  in  [REDACTED]  oaks  burst  in  the  forests.  One  thing  is  good  there=-wood  is  cheap.  The  villages  are  tiny,  but  almost  all  the  men  are  learned.  You  meet  a  carpenter  or  a  blacksmith-by  day  he  planes  a  board  or  pounds  his  hammer  on  the  anvil,  but  after  the  evening  serv-  ices  he  reads  a  chapter  of  the  Mishnah  to  a  group  in  the  study  house.  They  don't  set  much  store  by  Chassidic  rab-  bis.  You  can  travel  half  of  [REDACTED]  without  seeing  a  Chassid.  Themen  avoided  us,  but  the  women  used  to  come  to  us  on  the  sly,  and  brought  whatever  they  could-a  chicken,  a  dozen  eggs,  a  measure  of  buckwheat,  even  a  garland  of  garlic.  There's  no  lack  of  sickness  anywhere,  and  we  gave  them  all  kinds  of  remedies-cow's  eggs  with  duck  milk,  as  well  as  various  amu-  lets  and  talismans  we  both  invented.  When  we  were  in  [REDACTED],  a  thing  happened  that  turned  a  village  topsy-  turvy.&quot;  &quot;What  happened?&quot;  Zeinvel  asked.  &quot;Something  with  a  dybbuk.&quot;  &quot;A  dybbuk  in  [REDACTED]?&quot;  &quot;'Yes,  in  [REDACTED].  I  had  been  told  that  the  Litvaks  didn't  believe  in  dyb-  buks.  The  Vilna  Gaon  didn't  believe  in  such  things,  and  from  the  Vilna  Gaon  to  God  is  but  one  step.  But  what  the  eyes  see  can't  be  denied.  The  name  of  the  village  was  Zabrynka.  When  Yontche  and  I  got  there,  the  ritual  slaughterer  invited  us  forthe  Sabbath  repast.  In  [REDACTED]  a  Sabbath  guest  doesn't  sleep  in  the  poorhouse.  A  bed  is  made  up  for  him  at  his  host's  house.  The  slaughterer's  name  was  Bunem  Leib,  and  his  wife's  Hiene-a  name  not  heard  in  our  parts.  They  had  only  one  daughter,  Freidke,  a  short  girl  with  red  hair  and  freckles.  She  was  already  engaged  to  a  youth  who  was  studying  slaughtering  under  her  father.  His  name  was  Chlavna.  In  [REDACTED]  a  Senge  -     they  have  the  queerest  names.  He  was  a  handsome  young  man-tall,  dark,  well  dressed.  In  [REDACTED]  no  one  wears  a  satin  robe  on  the  Sabbath,  un-  less  maybe  a  rabbi.  Nor  are  their  ear-  locks  as  long  as  here  in  [REDACTED].  Every-  thing  with  them  is  different.  We  put  sugar  into  gefilte  fish,  they  put  pepper.  &quot;Yontche  was  a  glutton.  The  mo-  ment  he  entered  a  house,  he  took  right  to  the  food.  I  like  to  look  around.  I  noticed  that  Freidke  was  madly  in  love  with  Chlavna.  She  never  took  her  eyes  off  him.  Her  eyes  were  blue,  sharp,  and  kind  of  melancholy.  Why?  It's  in  my  nature  that  I  notice  things  whether  they  concern  me  or  not.  A  healthy  young  fellow  should  have  an  appetite,  but  it  struck  me  that  Chlavyna  hardly  ate  a  thing.  Whatever  was  served  him,he  left  over-the  Sabbath  loaf,  the  soup,  the  meat,  even  the  carrot  stew.  When  Hiene  served  him  a  glass  of  tea,  his  hand  trembled  so  that  he  spilled  it  on  the  tablecloth.  Eh,  I  thought,  a  slaughterer's  hand  shouldn't  tremble.  That  won't  do.  &quot;'Yontche  and  I  celebrated  the  Sab-  bath  there,  and  after  the  Sabbath  we  went  our  way.  We  didn't  know  it  then,  but  that  winter  was  our  last  together.  We  hadn't  had  much  luck  in  Lithu-  ania,  and  Yontche  acted  more  like  a  coachman  than  like  a  rabbi.  Usually  when  I  left  a  town  I  soon  forgot  every-  one  there,  but  I  sat  in  the  sleigh  think-  ing  about  Freidke  and  Chlavna  and  I  knew  somehow  that  I'dbe  coming  back  to  Zabrynka.  But  why?  What  did  these  strangers  mean  to  me?  &quot;We  came  to  another  town  and  there  I  really  quarrelled  with  Yontche,  and  told  him  that  he  was  an  outcast  and  that  he  should  go  to  blazes.  I  felt  so  downhearted  I  went  to  a  tavern.  I  sat  down,  took  a  shot  of  vodka,  and  someone  came  up  to  me-a  little  ship-  ping  agent-and  said,  'You  don't  recognize  me,  but  we  met  in  Zabrynka.  You  arethe  beadle.'  &quot;'What's  happening  in  Zabrynka?'  I  asked,  and  he  said,  'You  haven't  heard  the  news?  A  dybbuk  has  entered  the  slaughterer's  daughter.&quot;  &quot;'A  dybbuk?'  I  said.  In  &quot;And  he  told  me  this  story:  That  Sabbath  night,  soon  after  we  had  left  town,  the  butchers  brought  to  Bunem  Leib  a  large  black  bull  with  spiral  horns,  a  tough  beast.  Since  Freidke's  fianc\xc3\xa9,  Chlav-  na,  had  learned  the  craft,  with  all  its  laws,  and  had  already  " b"slaughtered  several  calves,  Bunem  Leib  decided  to  let  him  slaughter  it.  When  a  bull  is  slaughtered,  the  butchers  tie  him  with  ropes,  throw  him  to  the  ground,  and  hold  him  until  he  bleeds  to  death.  But  when  Chlavna  made  the  benediction  and  slashed  the  bull's  throat  the  animal  tore  loose,  lunged  to  its  feet,  and  began  to  run  around  with  suchfury  that  he  nearly  brought  down  the  slaughterhouse.  He  went  racing  across  the  marketplace  and  cracked  a  lamppost  and  overturned  a  wagon.  All  this  time,  the  blood  gushed  from  him  as  if  from  a  tap.  After  a  long  chase,  the  butchers  caught  him  and  dragged  him  back  to  the  slaughterhouse,  already  a  carcass.  Only  then  did  they  discover  that  Chlavna  had  vanished.  Someone  said  that  he  was  seen  leaning  over  the  well.  Others  sawhim  running  toward  the  river.  They  searched  with  poles,  but  hewasn't  found.  The  rabbi  ex-  amined  the  knife  Chlavna  used  and  he  found  the  blade  jagged.  The  bull  was  declared  unkosher.  The  butchers  fell  into  such  a  rage  against  Bunem  Leib  for  turning  the  job  over  to  Chlavna  that  they  shattered  his  windowpanes.  &quot;That  night  was  to  Bunem  Leib  and  to  his  household  one  long  turmoil.  At  dawn,  when  he  and  his  wife  had  finally  dozed  off,  they  were  roused  by  a  strange  wail-not  human  but  animal.  Freidke  stood  naked  in  the  center  of  the  room  bellowing  like  an  ox.  She  was  shaking,  jerking,  and  lowing,  as  if  she  were  the  very  bull  her  fianc\xc3\xa9  had  botched.  Then  a  terrible  human  voice  tore  itself  out  from  her  mouth.  All  Zabrynka  came  running,  and  it  became  clear  that  a  dybbuk  had  entered  Freidke.  The  dybbuk  cried  that  he  had  been  a  man  in  life-an  evil-  doer,  a  drunk,  a  lecher.  When  he  died,  his  soul  hadn't  been  allowed  into  Heaven  but  had  been  sentenced  to  be  reincarnated  as  a  bull.  The  Angel  of  Death  told  him  that  when  this  bull  was  slaughtered  according  to  the  ritual  lawand  pious  Jews  ate  his  flesh  after  reciting  the  right  benediction,  he,  the  sinner,  would  be  redeemed.  Now  that  Chlavna  had  rendered  the  meat  im-  pure,  the  sinner's  forsaken  soul  had  entered  Freidke.  &quot;I  was  so  taken  aback  by  what  the  shipping  agent  told  me  that  I  left  Yontche  bag  and  baggage,  grabbed  my  bundle,  and  headed  back  to  Zabrynka.  A  deep  snow  had  fallen  and  a  bitter  frost  had  settled  in.  I  couldn't  get  a  sleigh  and  I  had  to  walk  halfway  there.  The  wind  nearly  blew  me  away.  I  was  sure  that  my  end  had  come  and  I  be-  gan  to  say  my  confession.&quot;  &quot;You  fell  in  love  with  that  Freidke,  eh?&quot;  &quot;In  love?  You  talk  nonsense.&quot;  &quot;What  happened  next?&quot;  Zeinvel  asked.  &quot;I  came  to  Zabrynka  in  the  middle  of  the  night.  The  shutters  were  locked  everywhere,  but  Bunem  Leib's  house  was  lit  up  and  there  were  people  in-  side,  They  seemed  to  have  stayed  to  listen  to  the  dybbuk  instead  of  going  to  sleep.  No  one  took  notice  of  me  when  I  entered.  I  learned  later  that  Freidke's  mother  had  become  ill  from  grief  and  had  been  taken  to  some  rela-  tive.  I  barely  recognized  Bunem  Leib.  He  had  become  emaciated,  yellow,  and  drained  in  the  few  days  since  I  was  " b"there.  Freidke  stood  there  barefoot,  half  naked,  with  straggly  red  hair  over  her  shoulders,  her  face  as  white  as  that  of  a  corpse  and  her  eyes  bulging.  She  screamed  with  a  voice  I  could  never  have  believed  could  come  out  of  a  girl's  tender  throat.  This  was  not  a  human  voice  but  thatof  an  ox.  I  heard  her  bellow,  Slaughter  me,  Bunem  Leib,  slaughter  me!  I  am  the  bull  you  caused  to  be  tref  and  so  doomed  to  eternal  torment.  You  don't  see  them,  but  hordes  of  demons,  hobgoblins,  and  devils  are  lurking  right  here  waiting  to  tear  me  to  pieces  and  carry  me  away  to  the  wastelands  behind  the  Dark  Mountains.  Neither  your  mezuzah  nor  the  talismans  and  amulets  you  hung  in  all  the  corners  of  the  house  can  help  me.  Look,  if  you  are  not  com-  pletely  blind:  monsters  with  noses  to  their  navels,  with  snakes  instead  of  hair,  with  snouts  of  boars,  as  black  as  pitch,  as  red  as  fire,  as  green  as  gall!  They  dance  and  how!  like  the  mad.  Is  it  my  fault,  Bunem  Leib,  that  you  have  cho-  sen  for  your  son-in-law  a  schlemiel,  a  mollycoddle  who  cannot  wield  a  knife?  He  could  as  much  bea  slaughterer  as  you  could  be  a  wet  nurse.  His  hands  were  shaking  like  those  of  a  man  of  ninety.  He  was  such  a  weakling  that  when  he  saw  a  drop  of  blood  on  the  white  of  an  egg  he  was  ready  to  faint.  A  slaughterer  cannot  be  afraid  of  blood.  A  real  man  doesn't  run  away  from  his  bride-to-be  when  things  go  wrong.  You  picked  a  mama's  boy  for  your  daugh-  ter,  a  pampered  little  brat,  a  eunuch.  He  was  more  afraid  of  me,  the  bull,  than  I  was  of  his  knife!  Slaughter  me,  Bunem  Leib,  and  save  me  from  all  these  vicious  spirits.  If  not,  I  will  catch  you  on  my  horns  and  gore  you  and  car-  ry  you  away  to  swamps  from  which  there  can  never  be  any  rescue.&quot;  \xc2\xab  'My  daughter,  what  are  you  talk-  ing  about?  You  are  my  child,&quot;  Bunem  Leib  saidto  her.  'Let  this  evil  fiend  only  free  you,  and  if  Chlavna  is  not  your  destinedone,  I  will  find  another  spouse  for  you,  God  willing,  and  we  will  lead  you  to  the  wedding  canopy.  Merciful  God,  help  me!  I  can't  take  any  more  of  this  anguish.&quot;  &quot;Bunem  Leib  was  crying.  But  Freidke  answered,  'I'm  not  your  daughter  but  the  bull  you  have  given  into  the  hands  of  a  bungler.  Take  out  your  knife  and  slaughter  me!  Shed  my  blood!  You,  Bunem  Leib,  are  a  male,  not  a  neuter.  No  ox,  no  cow,  no  sheep  or  rooster  ever  ran  away  from  your  knife.  Kill  me,  Bunem  Leib,  kill  me!'&quot;  &quot;You  heard  all  this?&quot;  Zeinvel  asked.  &quot;May  I  hear  the  Messiah's  ram's  horn  as  clearly.&quot;  &quot;Go  on.&quot;  &quot;It  is  impossible  to  tell  it  all.  Toward  dawn  Bunem  Leib  became  so  tired  and  haggard  that  he  had  to  go  to  sleep,  but  the  town's  rowdies  tookover  the  show.  For  them  it  was  fun.  Imagine,  an  only  daughter,a  quiet  little  dove,  stands  in  the  middle  of  the  night,  her  breasts  un-  covered,  her  red  hair  wild  as  a  witch's,  and  she  confesses  sins  that  make  your  head  swim.  I  heard  her  say,  'While  alive,  I  did  everything  to  spite  God.  I  shaved  my  beard,  I  ate  pork  on  Yom  Kippur,  I  fornicated  with  Gentile  wenches  and  Jewish  whores.  I  denied  God,  and  I  thought  I  would  live  to  be  a  hundred  and  indulge  in  all  my  abomi-  nations.  But  suddenly  Igot  sick  with  pox  and  saw  that  I  was  done  for.  Still,  to  my  last  breath  I  blasphemed  God  and  served  the  idols  When  I  finally  expired,  the  burial  society  wouldn't  cleanse  my  body  and  theyburied  me  without  shrouds,  at  midnight,  without  anyone  saying  Kaddish.  Even  before  the     gravediggers  had  thrown  the  last  spade-  ful  of  dirt  over  me,  the  Angel  Dumah  opened  my  grave,  spat  at  me,  pierced  me  with  his  fiery  rod,  and  dragged  me  to  the  very  gates  of  Gehenna.  He  tried  to  hurl  me  inside,  but  Satan  slammed  the  door  and  shouted,  &quot;It  is  a  disgrace  to  Gehenna  to  allow  such  scum  to  en-  ter  into  it.&quot;  *  &quot;You  can  be  the  world's  biggest  heretic,  Zeinvel,  but  when  you  see  and  hear  a  thing  like  this,  you  must  admit  that  there  is  a  God.&quot;  &quot;No,  you  mustn't.&quot;  &quot;'Then  what  was  all  that?&quot;  &quot;Nerves.&quot;  &quot;How  do  nerves  know  what  goes  on  in  the  netherworld?&quot;  Mottke  asked.  &quot;'The  nerves  know  everything.&quot;  &quot;What  are  they-prophets?&quot;  &quot;Even  better  than  that,&quot;  Zeinvel  said.  &quot;Good  night.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Well,  you  are  talking  nonsense.&quot;  Zeinvel  had  fallen  asleep  and  was  snoring,  but  Mottke  lay  awake.  He  talked  to  himself:  &quot;Gone  to  sleep,  eh?  A  dunce,  a  boob  ...  Thinks  he  knows  it  all,  but  to  me  he's  still  a  fool.&quot;  &quot;Mottke,  shut  up.&quot;  'You're  not  asleep?&quot;  &quot;I  am  asleep,  but  I  hear  every  word  anyway.  I  learned  this  trick  in  jail.  There,  if  you  fall  asleep  for  real  they'll  strip  the  shirt  right  off  your  back.  What  became  of  Freidke?&quot;  &quot;How  should  I  know?  I  stayed  there  for  three  days,  then  I  went  my  way.  I  haven't  told  you  everything  yet.  Neighbors  swore  to  me  that  Freidke  had  never  sung  before.  True,  a  well-brought-up  girl  doesn't  let  her  voice  be  heard,  so  as  not  to  arouse  us  males;  nevertheless,  if  a  girl  has  a  voice  she'll  sing  while  rocking  a  child,  or  she  will  join  in  the  Sabbath  chants.  All  of  a  sudden  Freidke  started  singing  droll  " b"   songs  in  Yiddish,  Polish,  even  in  Rus-  sian.  She  serenaded  a  bride  and  made  wedding  jests,  all  in  rhyme.  She  mocked  the  women  haggling  in  the  butcher  shops,  and  their  splashing  in  the  ritual  bath.  The  hoodlums  made  snide  re-  marks  to  her,  and  she  answered  each  one  on  his  own  terms.  She  fast-talked  them  so,  they  were  left  speechless.  All  the  neighbors  said  the  same-this  wasn't  Freidke  but  a  wag,  a  rascal,  with  a  tongue  like  a  razor.  His  pro-  fanities  left  you  rolling  with  laughter.  Brother,  I  stood  by  and  watched  a  female  turn  both  into  a  bull  and  into  a  man.  Nerves  can't  do  this.&quot;  &quot;What  can  do  it?&quot;  &quot;Only  God.&quot;  &quot;'There  is  no  God.&quot;  &quot;How  did  the  Mottke  asked.  &quot;It  grew  from  itself  like  a  scab.&quot;  world  form?&quot;  ZEINVEL  dozed  off  again,  but  Mottke  still  lay  awake.  The  sick  in  the  poorhouse  sighed  and  mumbled  in  their  sleep.  Wasn't  Zeinvel  right,  Mottke  reflected.  A  merciful  God  wouldn't  allow  so  much  misery.  Peo-  ple  die  like  flies  here.  Each  day  the  burial  society  comes  with  the  ablution  board  to  carry  outa  body.  For  a  while  Mottke  listened  to  a  cricket  chirping  behind  the  stove.  It  jingled  as  if  with  little  bells.  It  told  a  tale  without  a  beginning  or  an  end.  How  was  it  that  it  chirped  the  whole  night,  Mottke  wondered.  Don't  crickets  need  sleep,  too?  Or  do  they  sleep  during  the  day?  And  what  do  they  find  to  eat  among  the  rags?  It  was  crazy  to  think  that  this  cricket  had  a  father,  a  mother,  a  grandfather,  a  grandmother,  and  maybe  children,  too.  I'm  all  befuddled,  Mottke  mused.  I'm  dead  tired  all  day,  but  at  night  my  brain  works  like  a  churn.  Sometimes  during  the  day,  when  Mottke  wanted  to  show  off  his  erudi-  tion,  heforgot  everything,  jumbled  passages  like  some  ignoramus.  But  in  the  middle  of  the  night  his  brain  opened  up.  He  recalled  whole  chapters  of  the  Scripture,  sections  of  the  Ge-  mara,  even  the  liturgies  of  Rosh  Ha-  shanazh  and  Yom  Kippur.  People  who  had  died  so  long  ago  that  he  no  longer  remembered  their  names  materialized  seemingly  alive  before  him.  He  remem-  bered  names  of  villages  in  which  he  had  stayed  with  Yontche.  Chants  of  cantors  and  songs  of  Chassidim  came  back  to  his  mind.  Mottke  had  been  raised  in  a  religious  home.  His  father  had  taken  him  along  to  the  wonder  rabbi  at  Tu-  risk.  As  a  boy,  he  had  read  Chassidic  books,  had  even  dreamed  of  becoming  a  rabbi.  But  his  father  had  died  of  ty-  phus,  his  mother  had  married  some  boor,  and  Mottke  had  slipped  into  the  confidence  game  with  Yontche.  Now  Mottke  began  droning  a  song  that  he  had  heard  in  Turisk  at  the  Sabbath  meal:  I'll  sing  with  praise  To  open  the  gates  Of  the  Heavenly  orchards  For  their  sacred  mates.  Zeinvel  got  to  coughing  and  sat  up.  &quot;Why  are  you  singing  in  the  middle  of  the  night?  Are  you  hungry?&quot;  &quot;I'm  not  hungry.&quot;  &quot;You've  got  a  burr  in  your  saddle,  eh?&quot;  &quot;Wasted  away  a  life  for  nothing,&quot;  Mottke  said,  shocked  at  his  own  words.  &quot;You  want  to  become  a  penitent  like  that  musician  who  blindfolded  himself  sothat  he  couldn't  look  at  women?&quot;  &quot;'Too  late  for  that.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  brother,  for  us  it  might  have  41  been  too  late  when  we  were  born,&quot;  Zeinvel  said.  &quot;That  business  with  Freidke  was  all  stuff  and  nonsense.  It's  all  made  up-the  Jewish  God,  the  Christian  God.  That  Chlavyna  was  a  clumsy  dolt  and  a  miserable  coward.  Freidke,  on  the  other  hand,  was  put-  ting  on  an  act  because  he  deserted  her.  Young  girls  hear  old  wives'  tales,  ab-  sorb  every  trifle,  and  then  they  mimic  them.  &quot;I  had  a  wild  female  once,  a  Tal-  mud  teacher's  daughter.  Mindle  was  her  name.  She  looked  like  a  kosher  vir-  gin.  I  could  have  sworn  she  couldn't  count  to  two-a  pale  little  face,  big  black  eyes.  It  all  started  when  I  met  her  at  the  pump  and  filled  a  pail  of  water  for  her.  She  gave  me  a  pretty  thank  you  and  threw  in  a  sweet  smile.  I  was  already  a  thief  by  then  and  I  had  had  more  women  than  you  have  hairs  on  your  head.  At  that  time,  it  wasn't  easy  to  get  a  Jewish  girl-not  in  our  parts,  anyway-but  there  was  no  short-  age  of  shiksas.  They  don't  know  any  pretenses.  They've  got  Uncle  Esau's  blood  in  their  veins.  Well,  but  I  saw  fire  in  Mindle's  eyes.  Each  time  I  saw  her  going  with  her  pail,  I  ran  outside  with  my  pail.  I  must  have  pumped  a  hundred  pails  for  her.  I  began  thinking  that  it  was  a  waste  of  time.  Suddenly  I  hand  her  the  pail  and  she  slips  a  note  into  my  hand.  I  ran  so  fast  with  my  own  pail  that  I  spilled  half  of  it.  I  walk  into  the  house  and  I  read,  'Meet  me  in  the  cemetery  at  midnight.&quot;  &quot;One  line,  that's  all-fancy  hand-  writing.  I  had  tasted  everything-  girls,  matrons,  young,  old-but  I  grew  as  rattled  as  a  yeshiva  boy.  I  was  scared,  too.  In  those  days  I  still  believed  in  the  creatures  of  the  night.  What  kind  of  girl  would  meet  a  fellow  in  the  cemetery  at  midnight?  It  was  said  " b"that  corpses  prayed  in  the  synagogue  at  night  and  that  if  someone  walked  by  they  would  call  him  inside  to  read  from  the  Torah.  Also,  a  carpenter's  daugh-  ter  had  hanged  herself  in  our  town  be-  cause  some  tramp  made  her  pregnant,  and  it  was  said  that  she  climbed  out  of  her  grave  in  the  nights  and  wandered  among  the  tombstones.  Just  the  same,  I  couldn't  wait  for  night  to  fall  and,  later,  for  the  clock  on  the  town  hall  to  toll  eleven-thirty.  My  piece  of  goods  had  figured  out  everything  in  advance.  Her  father,  a  fervent  Chassid  who  wore  two  skullcaps,  one  in  front  and  one  in  back,  went  to  bed  with  the  chickens.  He  got  up  before  dawn  to  bewail  the  Destruction  of  the  Temple.  The  mother  travelled  to  fairs  to  sup-  port  her  older  daughter,  a  penniless  widow  who  lived  in  Krasnystaw  with  three  children.  She  sold  jackets  that  she  padded  herself.  &quot;I'll  cut  it  short.  Mindle  had  sched-  uled  our  meeting  for  the  end  of  the  month,  when  the  moon  wasn't  shining  and  when  the  mother  was  off  to  some  fair.  The  night  was  hot  and  dark.  The  road  to  the  cemetery  led  through  Church  Street.  The  Jews  lived  close  to  the  marketplace.  Farther  along,  only  [REDACTED]  lived-tiny  houses  and  huge  dogs.  I  walked  by  and  they  attacked  me  like  a  pack  of  wolves.  With  one  dog  you  can  manage,  but  with  fifty  you  don't  stand  a  chance.  Besides,  when  the  [REDACTED]  hear  their  dogs  bark,  they  come  running  outside  with  cud-  gels.  I  thought  I  was  going  to  be  mar-  tyred,  but  somehow  I  made  it  to  the  cemetery.  I  tapped,  feeling  my  way  like  a  blind  man.  I  was  still  a  believer  then,  and  in  my  mind  I  donated  eigh-  teen  groschen  to  charity.  I  stretched  out  my  arms  and  thereshe  was,  as  if  she  had  emerged  from  the  ground.  When  you're  scared,  all  desire  leaves  you,but  the  moment  I  touched  her  she  burned  me  like  ahot  coal.  She  whispered  asecret  in  my  ear.  There  was  no  need  for  talk.  How  can  such  a  firebrand  grow  up  in  a  pious  teacher's  house?&quot;  &quot;She  satisfied  you,  eh?&quot;  Mottke  asked.  &quot;That's  not  the  word,&quot;  Zeinvel  said.  &quot;We  fell  on  each  other  and  we  couldn't  break  apart.  I  took  it  for  granted  she  was  a  virgin,  but  that  would  be  the  day!&quot;  &quot;A  tasty  piece,  eh?&quot;  &quot;We  lay  for  hours  among  the  head-  stones  and  I  couldn't  get  enough.  As  hot  as  fire  and  as  sharp  as  a  dagger.  Whenever  I  began  to  cool  off  she  said  something  so  spicy  that  I  shuddered and  the  game  started  all  over  again.  Where  she  had  learned  such  talkin  our  little  village  I'll  never  know.&quot;  &quot;How  isit  you  didn't  marry  her?&quot;  Mottke  asked.  &quot;Eh?  I  wanted  a  respectable  girl,  not  a  slut.  She  spoke  frankly:  one  man  to  her  was  like  an  appetizer.  She  need-  ed  many,  always  new  ones.  I'm  no  saint,  but  I  wished  a  wife  like  my  mother.  In  my  trade,  you've  got  to  be     -Howarp  NEmErov  ready  to  do  time.  'To  sit  in  prison  and  worry  that  your  wife  is  running  around  with  every  bum  is  scant  pleasure.  Even  as  I  fondled  and  kissed  her  and  prom-  ised  her  the  moon  and  the  stars,  I  longed  for  my  Malkele,  may  she  rest  in  peace.  I  already  knew  her  by  then.  She  was  a  friend  of  my  sister  Zirel.  I  wasn't  planning  to  remain  a  thief.  I  wanted  to  amass  a  stake  and  become  a  horse  deal-  er.  But  man  proposes  and  God  dis-  poses.&quot;  &quot;That  means  you  do  believe  in  God,&quot;  Mottke  said.  &quot;It  only  sounds  this  way.  What  is  God?  Who  is  He?  No  one  has  gone  up  to  Heaven  and  come  to  an  under-  standing  with  Him.  It's  all  written  in  the  Torah,  but  what's  the  Torah?  Parchment  and  ink,  Whoever  holds  the  pen  writes  what  pleases  him.  For  " b"nearly  two  thousand  years  Jews  have  been  waiting  for  the  Mes-  sizh,  but  he's  in  no  hurry  to  show  up.&quot;  &quot;So  the  world  is  lawless,  eh?&quot;  &quot;Whoever  can,  grabs.  And  whoever  can't  lies  six  feet  un-  der.&quot;  *  &quot;Still,  if  good  people  didn't  send  us  groats  and  soup  here  we  would  long  since  have  been  flat  on  our  backs,&quot;  Mottke  said.  &quot;They  don't  do  it  for  us,&quot;  Zeinvel  said.  &quot;'They  think  this  will  reserve  them  golden  chairs  in  [REDACTED]  and  :  pt  *s  large  portions  of  the  \xc2\xa7W  Leviathan.&quot;  &quot;You  once  said  yourself  that  you  be-  lieve  in  fate,&quot;  Mottke  argued.  &quot;You  said  that  the  last  time  you  went  to  steal  a  horse  you  knew  in  advance  that  you  would  come  a  cropper  and  that  it  was  fated  this  way.  Those  were  your  very  words.&quot;  &quot;God  is  God  and  fate  is  fate.  I  had  stolen  a  half-dozen  nags  with-  in  a  few  weeks,  and  the  peasants  had  started  sleeping  in  the  stables.  They  stood  guard  with  axes  and  rattles.  My  Malkele  begged  me:  'Zeinvel,  enough!&quot;  She  knelt  be-  fore  me  and  warned  me  to  stay  home.  She  spoke  about  opening  a  store  or,  if  worst  came  to  worst,  of  going  to  [REDACTED].  She  demanded  that  I  swear  on  the  Pentateuch  that  I  would  begina  new  life.  But  even  as  I  took  the  holy  oath  I  knew  that  it  wasn't  worth  a  pinch  of  snuff.  It's  not  in  me  to  stand  in  a  store  and  weigh  out  two  ounces  of  almonds  or  cream  of  tartar.  I  don't  have  the  patience  for  such  drivel.  Nor  was  I  drawn  to  the  land  of  [REDACTED].  Everyone  who  went  there  endedup  pressing  pants  or  ped-  dling  from  door  to  door.  Letters  came  telling  of  a  depression  in  New  York,  of  workers  picking  food  out  of  garbage  cans.  I  loved  Malkele,  but  she  wasn't  Mindle.  I  was  faithful  to  her,  God  is  my  witness,  but  to  sit  with  her  days  and  nights  and  have  her  chip  away  at  me  didn't  appeal  to  me.  She  had  mis-  carried  twice.  She  was  constantly  be-  putt  &quot;   wailing  her  lot  and  mine,  too.  I  wanted  once  and  for  all  to  test  my  luck.&quot;  You  believe  in  luck?&quot;  &quot;Yes.In  good  luck  and  bad  luck.&quot;  &quot;'There  is  a  God,  there  is!&quot;  Mottke  said.  &quot;And  if  there  is,  what  of  it?  He  sits  in  the  seventh  Heaven,  the  angels  flat-  ter  Him  with  their  hymns,  and  He  cares  as  much  about  us  as  about  last  year's  frost.&quot;  &quot;What  became  of  Mindle?&quot;  Mottke  asked.  &quot;Oh,  her  father  married  her  off  to  some  dummy,  a  son  of  a  rich  Chassid,  a  follower  of  his  rabbi's.  My  little  kit-  ten  stood  with  him  under  the  canopy  pure  and  veiled  as  if  she  had  never  been  touched.  Why  she  would  allow  herself  to  be  used  this  way  is  a  riddle  to  me.  Such  females  sometimes  marry  a  fool  so  that  they'll  have  someone  to  dupe  easily.  There  is  a  great  thrill  in  cheat-  ing-almost  as  much  as  in  stealing.  But  you  pay  for  everything.  She  died  two  years  later  in  childbirth.&quot;  &quot;So  that's  how  it  turned  out?&quot;  &quot;Yes.  Her  husband,  the  lummox,  had  gone  to  his  rabbi's  and  he  lingered  there  for  months.  I  was  doing  time  in  the  Janov  jail.  Later,  they  transferred  me  to  Lublin.  That  time  I  was  inno-  cent.  I  had  been  falsely  accused.  When  I  finally  got  out,  Mindle  was  already  in  the  other  world.&quot;  &quot;It  was  surely  a  punishment  from  God,&quot;  Mottke  said.  \xe2\x80\x9cN0.\xe2\x80\x9d  It  grew  silent,  Even  the  cricket  had  ceased  its  chirping.  After  a  while  Zein-  vel  said,  &quot;I  haven't  forgotten  her.  If  there  is  a  Gehenna,  I  want  to  lie  next  to  her  on  one  bed  of  nails.&quot; "