 b" IT  was  unexpected,  the  way  the   moon  appeared  suddenly,  after  so  long  an  absence,  as  though  there  had  never  been  any  clouds  at  all,  as  though  the  dust  from  the  peeling  hotels  had  not  mingled  with  the  gas  steaming  up  through  the  land,  had  not  risen  to  the  low  evening  sky  and  hung  there  for  months  and  months  and  months,  pro-  ducing  a  morose  mood  and  physical  danger  and  a  distorted  sense  of  time  that  was  a  feeling  of  perpetual  twilight.  In  that  twilight  it  had  been  impossible  to  judge  distances,  for  example,  or  trace  light  to  any  simple  source,.  Ev-  erywhere  in  the  sky  there  had  been  a  stagnant  phosphorescence,  like  a  visible  echo  of  artificial  light.  Then  the  moon  came  out,  and  the  teasing  glow  van-  ished  in  a  minute,  only  lingering  for  a  while  in  the  pockets  of  bad  land,  the  recent  land  built  too  far  out  into  the  harbor,  too  far  into  the  marsh,  where  the  gas  continued  to  rise,  would  always  continue  to  rise.  In  the  moonlight,  it  was  possible  to  see  from  one  end  of  the  causeway  to the  other,  People  looked  up.  The  moonlight  showed  the  great  hotels  along  the  beach,  their  height  intact,  rising  twenty  or  thirty  stories,  run-  ning  together  (as  it  appeared  from  the  causeway)  like  a  crazy  wall  built  to  different  heights  and  in  different  styles  at  different  moments,  like  a  wall  with  a  purpose,  a  fortification.  People  moved  at  a  faster  pace  after  seeing  the  familiar  buildings  and  did  not  mind  so  much  just  where  they  stepped.  At  the  end  of  the  causeway,  at  the  place  where  the  old  highway  had  debouched  into  the  Avenida  de  las  Palmas,  the  principal  boulevard  of  the  Spanish  Colony,  a  great  fat  man,  dressed  in  pleated  pants  that  conformed  with  perfect  accuracy  to  the  eccentric  bulge  of  his  enormous  stomach,  walked  around  the  rotting  barricades,  kept  his  shoes  clear  of  the  mud,  kept  step  to  a  puffing  rhythm  he  made  with  his  breath.  He  did  not  look  at  the  moon  but  looked,  rather,  at  the  shadows  thrown  by  the  old  hotels  across  the  Avenida  de  las  Palmas.  His  eyes  moved  from  left  to  right,  attending  to     the  geometry  of  the  shadows,  while  he  kept  up  the  puffing  noise  with  his  breath.  He  proceeded  to  the  middle  of  the  old  Avenue,  where  there  were  two  strips  of  land  on  which  remained  cer-  tain  hardy  grasses  and  certain  palms  that  had  not  rotted  in  the  damp  and,  be-  tween  the  two  strips,  a  third,  on  which  there  was  nothing.  He  walked  in  this  third  strip,  seemed  at  home  in  this  strip.  He  kept  on  at  a  steady  pace  that  was  different  from  the  pace  of  the  few  other  people  on  the  Avenue-less  fur-  tive,  more  like  something  confident  running  on  tracks  than  like  a  man  afraid  of  the  night.  At  the  intersection  of  the  Avenida  de  las  Palmas  and  the  Avenida  de  los  Alpes  he  made  an  easy  curving  turn  left  toward  the  water-  front,  toward  the  shadow  of  a  hotel.  Before  entering  the  shadow,  which  was  the  shadow  of  the  Hotel  Merovin-  gian,  the  greatest  of  the  luxurious  ho-  tels  of  the  old  city,  having  been  built  to  incorporate  every  luxury  with  every  satisfaction  of  historical  memory,  hav-  ing  suffered  a  contraction  and  damage  from  the  damp  but  still  throwing  a  fine  shadow,  the  large  man  stopped  his  puffing  noise.  Then  he  looked  up  quickly  at  the  moon  and  went  into  the  hotel.  HEN  the  moon  came  out,  Ma-  dame  Ludovica  saw  it  strike  the  mural  in  her  room  at  the  Merovin-  gian  and  she  looked  at  her  watch,  which  was  a  man's  watch,  a  big  watch  with  a  sensible  leather  strap,  because  Madame  Ludovica  was  sensible  about  time,  and  mail,  and  the  way  a  writing  table  is  ar-  ranged,  and  the  way  bills  are  paid  or  not  paid,  and  the  way  ex-  ercise  is  taken  or  not  taken,  and  because  she  was  not  vain.  The  time  the  moon  ap-  peared,  Madame  Lu-  dovica  was  prepared  to  say  with  certainty,  was  10:06  p.m.  At  one  moment,  she  was  look-  ing  at  her  mural  and  there  was  no  moon.  At  the  next  (she  did  not  shift  her  eyes  meanwhile,  or  blink),  a  powerful  silver  light  came  into  the  room  " b" and  imposed  the  pattern  of  the  window  onto  the  mu-  ral.  Madame  Ludovica  took  this  as  a  sign.  She  stayed  exactly  where  she  was  and  watched.  She  was  tempted  to  go  to  the  win-  dow  to  see  the  effect  of  the  moonlight  on  the  city,  but  she  did  not.  She  looked  at  her  mural,  kept  her  eyes  on  the  mural.  She  watched  the  pattern  made  by  the  moonlight  passing  across  the  mural.  Madame  Ludovica  felt  something  rise  inside  her.  She  knew  what  it  was:  a  form  of  concentration  very  like  hysteria.  Madame  Lu-  dovica  had  slit  her  wrists  once  when  she  had  allowed  herself  to  concentrate  too  deeply.  She  had  felt  her-  self  to  be  a  river  and  had  wanted  to  flow  in  her  own  blood.  It  had  been  embar-  rassing,  of  course,  but  it  had  been  pleasing,  too,to  feel  the  power  of  self-transfor-  mation  at  work.  Since  then  she  had  made  it  a  point  to  control  the  rising  ofthe  concentration,  but  she  had  not  aban-  doned  it  or  lost  pride  in  its  power.  She  tried  not  to  talk  to  herself,  or  to  stran-  gers,  because  that  brought  the  concen-  tration  on  in  an  overwhelming  way,  and  she  tried  not  to  touch  things  that  appealed  to  her  in  her  path,  or  to  estab-  lish  any  special  rhythm  of  walking.  But  she  did  permit  herself  to  stare  at  her  mural,  all  aspects  of  which  she  felt  to  be  benign.  In  the  moonlight  she  stared  at  a  fig-  ure  in  her  mural-a  man  in  early  mid-  dle  age,  blond,  with  long  hair  and  an  expression  on  his  face  in  which  violence  and  beatitude  were  mixed.  He  faced  forward  into  the  room-toward  Ma-  dame  Ludovica,  toward  the  window,  toward  the  moonlight.  The  moonlight  blanched  his  face  and  brought  out  (so  it  seemed  to  Madame  Ludovica)  the  gentle  understanding  in  his  nature,  for  which  the  air  of  violence  was  merely  a  disguise.  His  right  hand  was  extended  in  a  gesture  of  welcome,  and  seven  men  on  his  right  knelt  in  several  positions  along  Madame  Ludovica's  wall  to  re-  ceive  his  grace.  Madame  Ludovica  could  not  see  the  figures  she  knew  were  kneeling  on  his  left,  nor  could  she  see  his  left  hand  or  the  portion  of  his  face  to  the  left  of  his  left  eye:  all  of  this  was  in  a  room  belonging  to  another  guest  of  the  hotel,  on  the  other  side  of  a  thin  partition.  But  this  did  not  diminish  her  pleasure  by  much.  At  some  mo-  ments,  she  regarded  the  truncation  of  her  mural  as  a  reminder  of  everything  she  had  been  denied,  but  for  the  most  part  she  held  to  the  conviction  that  the  power  of  the  mural  in  its  entirety  might  be  threatening.  It  was  enough,  she  felt,  that  the  central  figure  remained,  almost  complete,  on  her  side  of  the  wall.  There  was  no  inscription  to  identify  the  scene  depicted  in  the  mural,  but  Madame  Ludovica  was  almost  certain  that  the  central  figure  was  Alaric  and  that  the  mural  as  a  whole  comprised  a  Visigothic  court  scene,for  her  room  was  a  fragment  (not  a  very  largefrag-  ment)  of  the  Alaric  Suite,  formerly  the  premi\xc3\xa9re  suite  of  rooms  at  the  hotel.  Little  historical  evidence  concerning  the  Visigothic  monarchy  had  been  made  available  to  the  artist,  and  he  had  in-  cluded  a  number  of  decorative  ele-  ments  from  other,  better-documented  courts,  sothat  there  was  about  this  as-  semblage  of  Gothic  nobility  a  distinctly  Elizabethan  feel,  but  this  did  not  spoil  Madame  Ludovica's  pleasure  in  it.  In  any  case,  her  pleasure  had  very  little  to  do  with  questions  of  accuracy,  Her  pleasure  had  to  do  with  faith  and  with  an  interest  in  preserving  the  blond  young  man  (the  presumed  Visigothic  king)  from  the  indifference  he  would  be  sure  to  face  in  any  company  but  hers.  Madame  Ludovica,  who  was,  as  she  put  it,  the  last  of  the  Hohenstau-  fens,  superior  in  dignity  to  the  Haps-  burgs,  knew  what  indifference  was.  ELSEWHERE  in  the  Merovingian,  the  effect  of  the  moon  was  subtle.  Roberto  Diaz-O'Malley,  the  proprie-  tor  of  the  hotel,  was  asleep  in  his  rooms-a  bottle  next  to  his  bed,  a  bottle  bearing  the  label  of  an  old  brandy  but  holding  a  small  amount  of  liquor  of  an-  other  sort.  Roberto  dreamed,  as  always,  of  kidnapping,  which  had  been  a  vogue  during  his  youth.  In  his  dream  a  simple  unmarked  car  trained  in  evasive  ma-  neuvers  moved  at  various  speeds  along  obscure  routes,  to  no  avail.  As  always,  the  route  ceased  to  be  obscure  and  be-  came  ominous.  'The  undistinguished  motif  of  the  car  became,  in  its  anonym-  ity,  an  announcement  of  the  intent  to  evade,  a  declaration  of  privilege  and  foreign  association.  People  along  the  route  came  out  to  look  as  the  car  went  by.  People  noted  that  the  speed  of  the  car  became  erratic,  as  if  the  car  were  driven  by  a  lunatic  or  a  person  in  senil-  ity.  They  noted  that  the  route  taken  was  a  route  taken  by  no  sincere  person.  They  noted  that  the  car  was  driven  by  a  young  man.  Suddenly,  then,awell-  marked  vehicle  moving  at  a  constant  " b"speed,  no  impediment  acknowledged  in  its  pace-a  bakery  truck,  perhaps,  or  a  vehicle  for  the  transportation  of  chil-  dren  to  a  private  school,  a  simple  ve-  hicle  with  all  the  time  in  the  world-  drew  up  close,  and  the  kidnapping  was  effected.  At  this  moment  in  his  dream,  as  al-  ways,  Roberto  Diaz-O'Malley  awoke  with  a  sense  of  relief,  of  anxiety  gone.  He  looked  around  his  room,  which  was  in  disorder.  He  saw  the  damp  in  the  stucco  and  the  heaps  of  small  dust  ac-  cumulating  by  the  sill  of  the  door  and  under  the  windows.  He  saw  his  open  luggage-old  luggage,  expensive  lug-  gage,  luggage  one  person  could  not  move  without  help-and  his  belongings  in  his  luggage.  He  could  not  remem-  ber  whether  the  luggage  was  being  packed  or  unpacked.  He  saw  the  bottle  at  his  bedside  and  put  it  to  his  lips.  &quot;How  perfectly  vile,&quot;  he  said.  It  was  not  obvious,  even  to  himself,  if  he  re-  ferred  to  the  liquor  in  the  bottle.  He  looked  around  the  room  again  andwas  surprised  to  see  how  definite  were  the  outlines  of  the  disorder  in  the  light  through  the  blinds.  The  surprise,  how-  ever,  was  only  a  flicker  of  interest  acrossthe  workings  of  his  obsessions,  and  he  did  not  get  up  from  his  bed,  draw  the  blinds,  or  see  the  moon.  In-  stead  he  turned  over  so  that  he  faced  the  wall,  faced  away  from  the  dis-  order.  &quot;So  like  Managua  toward  the  end,&quot;  he  murmured.  CORNELIA  anp  Consurro  La  SALLE,  the  famous  twin  sisters,  now  nearly  eighty,  took  the  oppor-  tunity  of  the  moonlight  to  resume  work  on  their  dual  autobiography.  Cor-  nelia  held  a  snapshot  up  to  the  moon-  light.  There  were  two  figures  in  the  picture.  One  was  a  woman  of  startling  beauty,  her  eyes  held  straight  ahead  in  an  expression  of  final  disdain,  her  mouth  pursed  into  a  tiny  bow  that  managed  to  look  inhuman  without  looking  unfeminine,  her  neck-indeed,  the  entire  upper  half  of  her  body-  hung  about  with  an  enormous  rope  of  pearls.  The  other  figure  had  been  scratched  out  with  ruthless  efficiency.  &quot;Who  is  this,  dear?&quot;  Cornelia  asked,  pointing  to  the  rash  of  scratches  on  the  photograph.  &quot;Who  is  this  with  you?&quot;  &quot;Just  nobody,  darling.  I  can't  think  why  you  trouble  with  that.  I  can't  think  where  you  found  that.&quot;  &quot;I  think  I  recognize  the  shoes.&quot;  &quot;I  can't  think  why  you  bother,  I  can't  think  where  you  find  these  old  scraps  that  haven't  a  bit  of  general  in-  terest,  unless  you've  been  creeping  and  pawing  where  you  don't  belong.&quot;  Consuelo  made  a  sudden  movement  at  the  photograph.  Cornelia  hit  her  sister  a  rather  strong  blow  across  the  shoulders  and  said  firmly,  &quot;But  lamb-pie,  you  know  we  must  strive  for  candor.  The  public  demands  it.  You  know  that  they  do.&quot;  Then  Consuelo  began  to  cry,  and  Cornelia,  who  was  used  to  that,  took  the  photograph  to  the  window  to  have  a  better  look.  N  his  towerroom,  Mr.  Peter  Stuy-  vesant,  who  had  been  having  a  sinking  spell,  first  felt  the  presence  of  the  moon  as  a  rising  of  spirits.  Frail,  thin,  and  so  old  that  he  seemed  beyond  age,  he  had  been  lying  on  his  wicker  chaise  longue  without  energy  enough  to  prepare  his  broadcast.  He  had  no-  ticed  several  new  raw  spots  on  his  hands  and  had  wrapped  them  in  a  piece  of  fabric  in  such  a  way  that  little  direct  action  was  possible.  He  felt  the  power  of  the  moon  as  an  impulse  to  " b"unwrap  his  hands.  When  he  did,  he  found  that  the  irritation  had  somewhat  lessened.  'The  spots  were  red,to  be  sure,  but  the  white  pustules  of  infection  had  withdrawn.  Heartened,  he  looked  about  him  and  saw  the  moonlight.  He  rose  at  once,  as  though  startled  by  the  unlooked-for  arrival  of  a  beautiful  woman.  He  went  to  his  window.  He  could  see  across  the  causeway  to  the  Beach  City.  He  could  see  each  of  the  big  hotels.  His  hands  rose  from  his  sides  to  frame  his  head  in  a  gesture  of  plea-  sure.  They  trembled  slightly,  like  the  last  leaves  on  a  tree  in  the  cold.  &quot;My  dear,&quot;  Mr.  Stuyvesant  said  as  he  looked  without  blinking  at  the  line  of  hotels,  &quot;there  they  are.  Just  like  that.&quot;  After  a  moment  he  began  to  count  the  hotels,  moving  his  eyes  from  right  to  left,  and  he  looked  exactly  as  though  he  were  counting  eggs  under  a  hen.  Then,  when  he  had  finished,  he  count-  ed  them  again,  calling  them  by  name:  &quot;The  Seurel,  there  is  the  Seurel,  just  like  day,  just  like  any  day  you  please,  and  the  Herez-Chenonceaux-the  dear  old  Chenny-just  like  our  lovely  times  in  [REDACTED]  before  [REDACTED]  went.  There  arethe  gardens!  The  gardens  at  the  Chenny.  Imagine  that!  And  then  the  Yormin.  Not  my  style.  A  little  busi-  nesslike,  the  Yormin,  but  never  mind.  Then  the  Mogul-Delhi-too  big  for  these  times,  the  Mogul-Delhi,  all  those  wings,  but  God  bless  it  anyway,  yes,  God  bless  the  Mogul-Delhi.  And  then  the  Reine-American,  naturellement.  How  well  the  Reine-American  looks.  Quite  like  a  queen.  I  must  remem-  ber  to  say  that.  Then  the  others  just  as  ever.  The  Tidal  Riviera  just  as  ever,  the  Gotham  [REDACTED]  justas  ever,  the  Hollywood  Plage  justas  ever.  Then  the  causeway.  How  fine  the  causeway  looks  in  the  moonlight!  And  there  are  lights  in  the  restaurant  dis-  trict.  Oh,  well!  This  is  quite  a  relief,  I  must  say  that  it  is.&quot;  Then  Mr.  Stuyvesant  moved  away  from  his  window  and  toward  his  clos-  et.  He  took  off  the  linen  smock  he  was  wearing  (which  he  called  his  duster  and  wore  during  work  in  his  archives  and  clipping  books)  and  put  on  a  handsome  smoking  jacket  with  ingenious  embroidered  fastenings  across  the  chest.  &quot;Well,  well,  just  like  that,&quot;  Mr.  Stuyvesant  said.  &quot;I  really  do  feel  that  I  should  go  on  live  tonight.  I  really  do  feel  that  I  should.&quot;  HE  moonlight  shone  over  the  Spanish  Colony  and  the  Beach  City  and  the  mainland  city.  The  moonlight  showed  changes  in  texture,  but  only  when  you  looked  closely.  The  moon-  light  seeped  into  the  cracks,  showed  the  cracks,  showed  the  tiny  fissures  ex-  panding  from  small  bubbles  of  air  (nat-  ural  to  the  process  by  which  dust  is  compressed  into  a  wall  that  will  bear  weight),  but  only  if  you  looked  close-  ly.  From  any  distance,  the  moonlight  showed  beauty  and  an  interesting  ge-  ometry.  In  the  moonlight  even  the  badly  compromised  hotels-the  Holly-  wood  Plage,  for  instance,  which  was  not  a  hotel  at  all  anymore,  really,  where  there  was  no  security,  none  at  all,  come  and  go  justas  you  please,  every  door  off  its  hinge,  every  pipe  clogged  with  the  small  red  plants  that  bloom  in  wet  decay,  the  under-  ground  arcade  a  nest  of  thugs  and  poor  people-even  the  lost  hotels  seemed  to  resemble  their  old  selves  if  you  did  not  look  closely,  And  the  buildings  from  the  first  boom,  the  old  buildings  in  the  Spanish  Colony  and  on  the  main-  land,  these  buildings  seemed  to  expand  and  breathe,  to  take  comfort  in  their  abundant  motifs.  Most  beautiful  was  the  Palacio  de  Bellas  Artes,  which  floated  over  the  Cottage  District  on  the  mainland  like  a  beached  liner.  A  folly  of  the  Aspair  family,  the  Palacio  represented  every  wrong  choice:  the  choice  for  a  Spanish  motif  when  the  vogue  had  passed  fora  Spanish  motif;  " b"the  choice  for  enormous  aspiration,  for  a  doubling  of  size  and  an  immensity  of  decoration  when  it  had  become  quite  clear  that  people  were  more  and  more  reluctant  to  enter  under  a  roof  in  any  large  numbers;  the  choice  for  fine  art  imported  from  European  circuits-Eu-  ropean  opera  that  no  one  cared  to  hear,  European  dancers  whom  no  one  want-  ed  to  see;  the  choice  for  a  location  in  the  northeastern  zone  of  the  mainland  city,  which  had  been  laid  out  for  man-  sions,  which  was  to  be  a  neighborhood  of  unexampled  luxury,  but  which  failed  to  catch  on,  which  failed  even  before  the  general  failure,  which  had  not  even  the  distinction  of  triggering  the  general  failure,  and  which,  al-  though  it  continued  to  carry  the  offi-  cial  name  Districto  del  Mar  Azul,  had  come  to  be  called  the  Cottage  District,  after  the  maze  of  small  buildings  that  spread  out  in  every  direction.  An  utter  failure  before  any  failure  was  common,  the  Palacio  de  Bellas  Artes  was  suf-  fered  to  remain  because  its  failure  was  so  complete  that  tearing  it  down  would  pay  no  one.  But  in  the  moonlight,  sud-  denly,  it  gave  comfort.  MADAME  LupovIcaA,  on  the  cause-  way,  looked  up  at  the  beach  ho-  tels,  but  just  for  a  second;  she  looked  back  at  the  Spanish  Colony,  but  just  for  a  second.  For  the  most  part,  she  kept  her  eyes  on  her  feet.  A  boy,  an  unpleas-  ant  boy,  walked  behind  her,  and  she  wanted  to  give  an  air  of  quiet  determi-  nation;  she  wanted  to  close  her  mind  so  that  he  would  have  no  place  to  en-  ter.  The  boy  was  alone,  but  he  was  the  sort  of  boy  who  belonged  to  a  pack  of  boys.  Madame  Ludovica  knew  how  it  was,  At  first,  there  was  just  one,  chal-  lenging  you  to  be  rude,  ready  to  be  hurt,  his  eyes  full  of  accusation  and  a  sense  of  injustice;  then,  when  the  in-  sult  was  established,  out  of  nowhere  would  come  others  to  redress  the  wrong-boys  who  could  not  be  persuaded,  usually,  to  stop  at  robbery.  The  trick  was  not  to  see  the  first  one,  to  shut  him  out  of  your  mind,  to  keep  your  mind  far  from  the  possibility  of  insult,  far  from  the  revulsion  you  would  feel  if  the  situation  were  ac-  knowledged.  Revulsion  was  the  insult  the  boys  provoked  most  often,  and  the  one  they  punished  with  most  cruelty-  that  and  fear.  Madame  Ludovica  made  it  safely  across  the  causeway  and  went  to  the  Hotel  Yormin  to  meet  a  friend.  No  one  had  better  security  than  the  Yor-  min.  She  felt  the  attention  of  the  stray  boys  turn  away  as  soon  as  it  was  clear  that  she  was  going  to  the  Yormin.  En-  trance  to  the  Yormin  was  through  a  series  of  narrowing  doors-not  doors  merely  but  sensitive  detectors,  which  detected  metal  in  suspect  configura-  tions,  and  plastic,  and  the  new  admix-  tures  of  metal  and  plastic  that  people  found  under  their  chairs,  or  along  the  molding,  or  under  the  edge  of  the  ta-  ble,  and  that  were  more  powerful  than  othersmall  explosives.  The  last  door-  way  was  not  only  narrow  but  designed  to  mold  itself  close  to  the  figure.  Guests  of  the  hotel  and  a  very  few  important  people  had  a  card  key,  which,  when  placed  under  a  scanner,  kept  the  door-  way  from  effecting  this  final  intrusion;  but  Madame  Ludovica  did  not  have  such  a  key,  so  she  was  obliged  to  stand  patiently  while  elements  of  the  door-  way  shot  out  toward  her  body.  Once  inside,  Madame  Ludovica  was  attended  by  a  member  of  the  concierge  service,  a  red-faced  boy  who  seemed  to  be  losing  his  hair  in  patches:  bald  welts  the  size  of  silver  dollars  showed  all  over  his  scalp.  He  took  Madame  Ludo-  vica  up  in  the  elevator.  &quot;I  wonder  if  you  know  my  friend  Mrs.  Grendle?&quot;  the  boy  asked  sudden-  ly,  with  a  quick  sideways  jerk  of  his  neck,  Madame  Ludovica  said  that  she  did  not.  &quot;It's  Mrs.  John  James  Grendle.  Mrs.  Montgomery  Grendle,  she  calls  herself  now.  She  had  an  awful  di-  vorce.&quot;  This  information  the  boy  im-  parted  as  though  it  added  particularly  to  the  woman's  importance.  Madame  Ludovica  smiled  but  did  not  answer.  &quot;You'd  be  surprised  how  she  treats  me,&quot;  the  boy  said  ominously.  Madame  Ludovica  said  nothing,  and  the  car  arrived  at  her  floor.  The  doors  opened  six  inches  above  the  level  of  the  hall.  The  boy  made  no  effort  to  bring  the  elevator  down.  Madame  Ludovica  stepped  down  carefully.  The  boy  looked  at  her  morosely.  &quot;Just  like  a  friend.  That's  how  she  treats  me,&quot;  he  said.  Madame  Ludovica  looked  at  him,  putting  revulsion  and  fear  at  a  dis-  tance.  &quot;That's  very  attractive,&quot;  she  said,  smiling.  Her  friend  kept  her  waiting-wait-  ing  at  first  when  he  did  not  immediate-  ly  come  to  the  door,  waiting  afterward  when  he  stuck  his  head  out  and  told  her  to  wait.  Then  he  let  her  in,  and  Madame  Ludovica  saw  that  he  had  company,  a  tall  man  dressed  in  a  black  suit  that  was  much  too  big  for  him.  Madame  Ludovica  wished  that  she  had  telephoned  ahead,  but  she  had  not  thought  to  do  it,  because  she  had  little  money;  because  the  only  telephone  that  worked  at  the  Merovingian  was  the  public  telephone  in  the  lobby  and  she  was  afraid  to  stay  too  long  in  the  lobby;  because  she  had  thought  only  of  the  moonlight.  She  did  not  know  of  which  she  was  more  ashamed-her  poverty,  her  fear,  or  her  enthusiasm.  Madame  Ludovica  was  in  most  cir-  cumstances  a  sober  and  sensible  wom-  an,  but  when  she  felt  herself  to  be  in  the  wrong,  she  adopted  a  manner  that  was  much  too  lighthearted.  Her  talk  was  too  lighthearted  now.  She  said  several  lighthearted  things  and  watched  them  compress  the  faces  of  her  friend  and  " b"his  visitor.  So  unhappy  did  this  make  her  that  she  was  about  to  leave,  when  the  man  in  the  dark  suit  rose  himself.  &quot;'Things  were  going  smoothly,&quot;  the  man  said,  as  though  Madame  Ludovica  had  been  the  cause  of  a  change  offor-  tune  away  from  the  smooth.  He  pursed  his  lips  and  pulled  his  face  into  a  deep,  deep  frown.  &quot;'Things  were  going  very  smoothly.&quot;  It  seemed  then  that  the  man  in  the  dark  suit  would  not  go,  that  he  had  got  up  for  some  other  purpose.  It  seemed  to  Madame  Ludovica  that  it  was  expected  that  she  would  go,  but  she  did  not  know  how  to  leave,  since  she  had  only  just  come  in  aftera  long  wait  in  the  hall.  She  was  embarrassed  by  the  rudeness  of  her  friend,  and  this  led  her  to  adopt  a  manner  more  light-  hearted  still.  Her  hands  fluttered  in  a  gesture  of  surprise,  and  she  ran  to  the  window  in  a  girlish  way.  &quot;Oh!  Oh!  Look  at  that  moon!&quot;  she  said,  pulling  apart  the  curtains,  ex-  claiming  at  the  moon  but  not  looking  at  the  moon-looking,  instead,  at  the  dull  concrete  buffer  area  below,  seeing  herself  shattered  on  the  pavement,  ly-  ing  perfectly  still  and  unembarrassed,  lying  there,  perhaps,  for  days,  because  people  did  not  go  much  into  the  buffer  area  even  when  there  was  a  job  to  do.  The  job  of  picking  up  a  shattered  woman  would  not  be  one  the  hotel  would  rush  to  complete,  Madame  Ludovica  thought.  &quot;Please  close  the  drapes,&quot;  Madame  Ludovica's  friend  said.  Madame  Lu-  dovica  turned  around  and  saw  that  the  man  in  the  dark  suit  had  left.  Her  frienddid  not  rise  or  offer  her  a  seat  or  offer  her  refreshment.  &quot;What  can  I  do  for  you?&quot;  he  said.  After  a  very  brief  conversation  Ma-  dame  Ludovica  left  her  friend  and  was  out  in  the  hall  again,  She  dreaded  ring-  ing  for  the  elevator  and  thought  about  taking  the  stairs,  but  she  was  on  a  high  floor  and  staircases  were  unprotected,  even  at  the  Yormin.  She  rang  for  the  elevator,  and  after  a  while  it  came  up  empty,  unattended  by  any  member  of  the  concierge  staff.  Reaching  the  lobby,  she  directed  her  eyes  to  her  feet  to  avoid  any  chance  of  seeing  the  red-  faced  boy,  and  she  left  quickly.  Out-  side,  the  air  seemed  a  bit  heavier  than  before.  She  had  intended  to  eat  in  a  restaurant  as  a  treat,  but  she  headed  for  the  causeway  instead.  Madame  Ludovica  thought,  I  can  get  to  the  causeway.  There  is  no  prob-  lem  about  getting  to  the  causeway.  I  will  not  look  to  the  left  or  to  the  right.  Then  Madame  Ludovica  looked  to  the  left;  there  was  a  laugh  and  a  scream  of  pain,  and  Madame  Ludovica  looked  to  the  left.  She  could  not  see  a  thing.  Nothing.  Whoever  had  screamed  was  not  there;  whoever  had  laughed  was  not  there.  Madame  Ludovica  moved  on.  She  felt  the  air  growing  heavier.  She  passed  by  the  Reine-American.  Her  ankles  began  to  hurt  badly,  and  she  wanted  to  wrap  them  up.  She  had  two  pieces  of  red  cloth  in  her  purse.  She  wanted  to  take  them  out  and  put  them  around  her  ankles  tight.  She  looked  up.  Ahead  of  her  was  the  Tidal  Rivi-  era,  a  hotel  where  things  were  in  doubt,  where  sometimes  there  was  someone  to  protect  you  and  sometimes  youhad  to  pay  extra  not  to  be  hurt.  Beyond  the  Tidal  Riviera  was  the  Gotham  [REDACTED],  and  then  the  Hollywood  Plage,  and  then  the  causeway.  Madame  Ludovica  felt  a  hand  on  her  shoulder.  She  turned  to  the  hand.  There  was  a  tall  fat  man  dressed  in  a  huge  black  suit,  a  small  black  tie,  a  white  shirt  with  a  tiny  collar,  like  a  joke  on  a  collar.  The  moonlight  brought  out  the  paleness  of  his  skin,  and  another  quality-the  smoothness.  The  pores  had  contracted  to  produce  an  unnatural  smoothness,  like  baby  skin  over  scars.  &quot;Feeling  a  little  tired?&quot;  the  man  asked.     47  &quot;Oh,  no,&quot;  Madame  Ludovica  re-  plied.  The  hand  of  the  man  did  not  leave  her  shoulder.  &quot;You  wouldn't  like  to  lie  down?&quot;  the  man  asked.  He  gave  a  smile,  like  a  joke  on  a  smile.  Then  there  was  a  threadbare  scream,  the  remnant  of  a  scream,  the  sound  of  a  slap,  and  then  Madame  Ludovica  looked  to  her  right,  toward  the  sounds,  She  saw  another  man,  like  the  man  who  stood  with  her,  and  a  woman,  not  standing  but  sprawled  on  the  ground.  The  woman  looked  up  for  a  moment  and  held  Madame  Ludovica's  eyes,  shaking  her  head  back  and  forth.  Madame  Ludovica  turned  to  the  man  standing  with  her.  &quot;No.No,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  feel  quite  recovered,  thank  you.  But  I  do  want  to  thank  you  for  your  time.&quot;  She  reached  for  her  purse,  and  she  felt  the  hand  of  the  man  with-  draw  from  her  shoulder.  She  gave  the  man  the  money  she  had  planned  to  spend  for  her  dinner  treat.  In  taking  her  money  from  the  purse,  she  exposed  the  red  cloth  she  used  to  bind  her  ankles,  and  she  blushed  for  shame  and  fear;  but  the  man  said  nothing,  and  she  went  on  her  way,  quickly,  afraid  to  look  to  her  left  or  her  right,  afraid  to  see  the  woman  sprawled  on  the  ground.  The  air  was  growing  very  heavy,  and  clouds  crept  up  from  the  periphery  of  the  sky.  Madame  Ludovica  walked  as  quickly  as  she  could.  She  did  not  look  at  the  Tidal  Riviera,  which  was  deeply  compromised,  where  the  management  was  deeply  compromised,  where  you  had  to  hire  private  security,  because  the  management  would  not,  where  the  best  of  the  private-security  people  now  declined  to  go;  she  did  not  look  at  the  Gotham  [REDACTED],  which  was  a  place  sustained  by  gamblers,  by  peo-  ple  who  gambled  on  the  progress  of  the  silt  creeping  into  the  disposal  drains,  on  the  rate  at  which  the  cot-  tages  built  on  the  bad  land  sank  and  de-  composed,  on  any  danger;  she  did  not  look  at  the  Hollywood  Plage,  which  was  the  worst;  she  did  not  slow  her  pace  or  look  up  until  she  reached  the  causeway.  At  the  causeway  the  red-faced  boy  was  waiting  for  her.  She  pretended  not  to  recognize  him,  lowered  her  eyes,  and  walked  at  a  pace  in  which  she  had  put  her  trust.  The  boy  followed  her.  She  felt  his  footsteps.  Then  he  began  to  mutter.  She  could  not  understand  him  at  first.  Then,  insensibly,  she  slowed  her  pace  to  hear.  &quot;I  know  her  business,&quot;  the  boy  said.  &quot;I  know  her  business,  I  guess.&quot;  Madame  Ludovica  might  have  al-  " b"tered  h  er  pace  to  be  out  of  range  of  his  repetition,  but  she  d  id  not.  &quot;I  know  her  business,&quot;  the  boy  sa  id.  &quot;I  guess  I  know  it  well  e  nough.  &quot;  The  phrases  were  so  unded  over  and  over  ,  until  Madame  Ludovica  began  t  o  repeat  them  herself.  &quot;I  know  her  busi-  ness,&quot;  she  said  silently.  &quot;I  know  her  business,  I  guess.&quot;  The  air  wa  s  v  ery  heavy.  From  the  middle  of  the  ca  useway  i  t  was  not  pos-  si  ble  to  see  anything  but  the  causeway.  The  Beach  City  and  the  Spanish  Colo-  ny  were  dead  to  sight.  Madame  Ludo-  vica  and  the  red-f  a  ced  boy  walked  in  step.  Then,  after  a  time,  the  boy  fell  qui  et,  and  a  little  w  hile  after  that  he  turned  on  a  radio.  All  the  time  he  kept  in  step  with  Madame  Ludovica,  and  she  kept  in  step  with  him.  [REDACTED].  STUYVESANT  went  on  the  air  at  midnight.  He  wore  his  smok-  ing  jacket,  and  he  was  assisted  by  Jaime  Diaz-O'Malley,  the  young  son  of  the  proprietor  of  the  Merovin-  gian.  He  went  on  live,  but  he  used  ma-  terial  from  his  archives,  because  it  was  his  opinion  that  contemporary  material  lacked  allure.  He  sat  straight  &quot;Broadbent  has  donated  a  philodendron  to  the  club  every  year  up  next  to  the  microphone.  As  he  went  on  the  air,  he  smiled  and  took  a  deep  breath.  &quot;This  is  Peter  Stuyvesant  reporting  to  you  from  the  frontiers  of  fashion,  where  chic  never  sleeps,&quot;  he  said.  onsUELO  Anp   CornELIA  La  SALLE  heard  him.  &quot;Why,  I  think  Mr.  Stuyvesant's  gone  on  live,&quot;  Con-  suelo  said.  &quot;I'm  sure  that  he  has.&quot;  &quot;I'm  sure  e/  recognize  this  photo-  graph,&quot;  Cornelia  said.  &quot;That  man  has  a  mind  like  a  steel  trap.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  don't  think  it  could  mean  a  thing  to  him,&quot;  Consuelo  said.  &quot;I  think  he'll  recognize  the  shoes,&quot;  Cornelia  said.  &quot;I  don't  think  it  could  mean  a  thing  to  anyone  who  didn't  take  a  nasty  in-  terest  in  every  silly  thing,&quot;  Consuelo  said,  and  then  she  began  to  cry.  MADAME  Lupovica  heard  the  Pe-  ter  Stuyvesant  broadcast  on  the    causeway.  &quot;He's  gone  on  live,&quot;  she  said.  She  turned  to  face  the  boy  behind  her.  &quot;He's  on  live  tonight,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;because  of  the  moon.  Because  we  have  the  moon.&quot;  Madame  Ludovica  and  the  boy  walked  on  together,  listening  to  the  broadcast.  Mr.  Stuyvesant  mentioned  so  many  of  her  favorite  items  that  Ma-  dame  Ludovica  felt  quite  recovered.  He  mentioned  the  party  at  the  Mero-  vingian  when  Bernard  Fram  gave  to  each  guest  a  colored  glass  goblet,  each  more  extraordinary  than  the  last,  each  the  work  ofa  year,  and  then  de-  manded  that  they  be  thrown  onto  the  floor  and  shattered.  He  mentioned  the  sale  at  Las  Olas,  the  great  Aspair  property  that  had  stretched  across  the  tip  of  the  mainland,  a  fraction  of  which  property  had  in  the  end  yielded  specu-  lative  land  enough  to  make  five  for-  tunes.  He  mentioned  the  vogue  for  the  word  &quot;blas\xc3\xa9&quot;  pronounced  as  though  it  were  &quot;blaze&quot;  and  then  pro-  nounced  it  that  way  several  times.  He  mentioned  the  awful  feud  between  the  La  Salle  sisters  and  hinted  at  a  cause-  an  interest  shifting  from  one  sister  to  the  other  on  the  part  of  a  member  of  the  House  of  Windsor.  He  mentioned  the  painful  divorce  of  the  Adolpho  Stewarts,  and  he  mentioned  the  vogue  for  a  Brazilian  actress.  Then  he  said,  &quot;Madame  Ludovica,  the  last  of  the  Hohenstaufens,  is  the  most  ex-  clusive  royalty  in  the  Spanish  Colony.  When  she  takes  tea  at  the  Marsh  Club,  Madame  Ludovica,  who  eschews  all  ti-  tles,  breaks  a  piece  of  toast  under  the  table  and  spreads  the  crumbs  in  a  circle  to  sym-  bolize  protection  from  usurp-  ers.&quot;  Madame  Ludovica  turned  to  the  red-faced  boy.  &quot;That's  who  I  am,&quot;  she  said  simply.  &quot;I  am  Madame  Ludovica,  last  of  the  Hohenstaufens.&quot;  The  boy  looked  at  her  quietly  and  said  nothing.  They  walked  on.  After  a  time  the  boy  stopped.  &quot;This  is  where  I  live,&quot;  he  said.  Madame  Ludovica  looked  over  the  edge  of  the  cause-  way.  Sometimes  on  the  slopes  of  the  causeway  there  were  clumps  of  cottages.  For  long  stretches  there  was  nothing-  just  land  eroded  down  to  the  rocks  upon  which  the  cause-  way  was  built.  But  there  were  places  where  the  land  still  sloped  gradually  to  the  water,  and  in  these  places  there  were  a  few  cottages  left-danger-  ous,  but  attractive  in  their  motifs.  'There  were  cottages  like  thatched  huts,  cottages  like  the  ones  in  the  best  illus-  trated  children's  books,  cot-  " b"tages  with  trellises,  cottages  with  Moorish  arches,  cottages  in  ev-  ery  popular  style.  On  the  slope  near  to  where  Madame  Ludovica  and  the  boy  were  standing,  there  was  not  a  group  of  cottages  but  only  one,  on  a  bit  of  badly  eroded  land.  It  was  done  in  a  Spanish  style.  There  was  a  big  win-  dow  -the  glass  mostly  shattered  but  partly  protected  by  an  iron  grate  that  was  intact  and  had  been  recently  painted.  &quot;I  love  the  Spanish  style,  don't  you?&quot;  Ma-  dame  Ludovica  said  to  the  boy.  &quot;You  treated  me  just  like  a  friend,&quot;  the  boy  said.  Madame  Ludovica  returned  without  inci-  dent  to  the  Merovingi-  an.  Her  spirits  were  very  high,  and  she  thought  again  and  again  of  the  days  when  she  had  taken  tea  at  the  Marsh  Club,  es-  corted  to  the  same  ta-  ble  inside  the  glass-covered  court  al-  ways  by  Jules  himself,  because  Jules  knew  who  she  was-knew  exactly  who  she  was.  Still,  she  felt  a  chill  as  she  entered  the  Merovingian.  The  clouds  had  reached  the  moon  and  very  nearly  covered  it.  As  she  started  across  the  enormous  lobby-not  secure  now,  not  protected-she  felt  some  sadness  and  some  fear.  She  put  these  out  of  mind.  She  saw  the  tiles  on  the  floor  and  thought  how  beautiful  they  were  handmade,  each  one,  glazed  with  that  dull  glow  that  only  certain  workmen  can  produce.  She  stopped  and  looked  at  the  tiles.  She  remembered  throwing  her  goblet  onto  them.  She  remembered  how  the  fragments  of  fine  glass  had  looked  against  the  tiles-the  shards  of  colored  glass  each  a  fragment  of  per-  fection,  perfect  because  shattered,  per-  fect  both  in  intent  and  in  no  intent.  &quot;Bernard  was  right  to  make  us  do  it,&quot;  she  said  out  loud.  She  walked  on.  The  moonlight  was  fading  from  the  room.  There  was  barely  enough  light  to  see  by.  She  made  her  way  to  the  staircase,  and  then  she  looked  around.  She  looked  at  the  great  mural,  the  principal  work  in  the  ho-  tel-an  enormous  representation  of  the  Merovingian  court  on  the  occasion  of  the  crowning  of  Clovis.  The  mural  was  punctuated  by  the  phrase  &quot;White  Faggots&quot;  and  by  the  auxiliary  phrase  &quot;White  Faggots  Die,&quot;  and  by  render-  ings  in  cartoon  of  five  large  black  phal-  luses,  placed  to  impale  the  chief  noble-  men  of  the  Merovingian  court.  Madame  Ludovica  turned  away  and  stumbled.  She  felt  something  unex-  pected  and  soft.  It  was  Bernard  Fram,  smiling  and  fat,  sitting  on  the  stairs  waiting  for  the  moonlight  to  pass,  his  pleated  pants  pulled  up  to  keep  their  crease.  Of  all  the  guests  at  the  Mero-  vingian,  only  Bernard  Fram  went  back  as  far  into  the  past  as  she:  only  he  and  she  remembered  when  the  Marsh  Club  met  in  the  Frankish  Dining  Room  be-  fore  it  had  a  house  of  its  own;  only  she  and  he  remembered  the  private  dock  for  yachts;  only  he  and  she  re-  membered  the  Carolingian,  the  Mero-  vingian's  twin  hotel,  connected  to  the  Merovingian  by  a  marble  subway.  Yet  they  were  not  friends.  &quot;Ah,&quot;  said  Bernard  Fram  with  a  smile.  &quot;Madame  Ludovica,  the  pro-  verbial  bad  penny.&quot;  CORNELIA  La  SALLE  was  at  the  window  as  the  moon  slipped  be-  hind  the  clouds.  The  photograph  of  her sister  was  still  in  her  hand.  &quot;I  think  I  know  who  this  is  with  you,  dear,&quot;  she  said  to  Consuelo.  &quot;Isn't  it  that  unnatu-  ral  little  girl  in  Positano?  'The  one  who  just  wouldn't  leave  you  alone?&quot;  Consuelo's  lips  quivered.  &quot;I  don't  see  how  you  could  say  she  was  unnatural.  She  was  descended  from  all  the  doges,&quot;  she  said,  and  then  she  began  to  cry.  Cornelia  turned  away  from  the  win-  dow  and  threw  the  photograph  onto  the  floor,  where  there  were  many  photo-  graphs  and  clippings  and  invitations,  and  even  a  number  of  visiting  cards  from  the  first  and  most  respectable  pe-  riod  of  the  sisters'  youth.  &quot;Well,  dear,&quot;  Cornelia  said,  taking  her  sister's  head  in  both  her  hands  and  wiping  away  the  tears  with  a  certain  tenderness,  &quot;you  know  what  they  were.&quot; "