 b"HOWARD Evans  had  the  farm  H  next  to  ours.  He  was  old  when  I  was  very  young-a  short,  round  man  with  a  bemused  look.  He  had  white  hair  and  tan  skin,  and  his  hands  were  gnarled,  as  were  the  hands  of  the  other  farmers,  Creases  from  smiles  surrounded  his  eyes-pale-gray  eyes  with  fierce,  bushy  brows.  He  liked  small  children  like  me.  His  wife,  it  seems  to  me,  was  at  least  two  feet  taller  than  he  was,  straight  and  thin  and  rail-like,  with  dark  hair  from  the  beauty  parlor  and  wrinkles  around  her  chin.  Her  hands  were  freckled  by  the  sun.  She  was  a  strong  woman,  and  very  proper.  She  wore  plaid  flannel  shirts  and  brown  oxfords  and  wool  trousers,  which  seemed  odd  to  me  because  my  mother  (who  was  the  only  other  adult  female  I  knew)  al-  ways  wore  skirts.  She  talked  more  than  Howard,  but  she  was  also  fond  of  children,  though  inwardly  so.  I  never  learned  her  first  name;  to  our  family  she  was  always  Mrs.  Evans  and  I  think  that  everyone  on  all  the  farms  called  her  Mrs.  Evans.  Her  husband  might  have  had  another  name  for  her,  but  I  doubt  it.  The  Evanses  had  one  daughter.  She  resembled  Howard  in  shape  and  stature,  but  a  permanent  wave  from  the  beauty  parlor  matched  her  moth-  er's.  Her  name  was  Marjorie,  and  I  remember  that  her  head  was  very  round  and  she  spoke  deliberately  and  softly.  Her  face  was  quite  pretty  when  she  was  young,  as  she  was  in  my  earliest  recollections-when  I  was  five,  she  might  have  been  eighteen.  There  was  a  sweetness  about  her,  and  a  slow-  ness  that  was  strange.  The  farm  was  small  and  on  a  beau-  tiful  hill.  At  most,  Howard  Evans  milked  thirty  head.  His  barn  was  gray,  and  his  milkhouse  was  gray  and  small,  for  when  the  other  farmers  changed  to  large  milkhouses  and  refrigerator  tanks  for  bulk  storage  he  was  tooold  to  invest  the  amount  of  money  they  cost.  He  farmed  as  he  always  had.  Every  night  and  every  morning,  he  would  haul  his  milk  cans  in  the  bed  of  the  pickup  truck  to  the  milk  plant  in  the  village  and  load  them,  full  and  heavy  with  warm  milk,  onto  a  con-  veyor  belt.  The  men  inside  the  plant  would  empty  the  cans  into  a  vat,  and  the  cans  would  come  out  the  belt  on  the  other  end  rinsed  clean.  Howard  would  load  them  back  onto  the  truck  and  take  them  home.  This  is  what  all  the  farmers  did  until  the  coming  of  bulk  refrigeration,  and  for  identifica-  tion  each  farmer  had  his  own  number  painted  in  red  on  the  lids  of  his  cans.  Before  my  father  invested  in  refrigera-  tion  tanks,  our  number  was  48;  How-  ard's  was  47.  I  know  this  because  on  a  rare  morning  in  my  six-year-old  life  I  rodewith  my  father  to  the  milk  plant  and  watched  from  the  window  of  our  blue  Ford  pickup  as  our  cans  were  loaded  on  the  conveyor  belt  full  and  returned  to  us  empty.  My  information  on  the  inner  workings  of  the  milk  plant  is  sketchy,  because  I  didn't  leave  the  truck.  We  could  see  the  Evans  farm  buildings  from  the  big  window  in  our  kitchen,  and  we  still  can,  although  per-  haps  we  see  less  of  them  because  the  maple  tree  that  grows  near  the  win-  dow  has  gottenwider.  They  stand  on  the  crest  of  the  hill,  on  the  other  side  of  our  meadow,  which  may  be  frosty  with  snow  or  yellow  with  dandelions.  Besides  the  square  gray  barn  and  weathered  milkhouse,  there  are  small  outbuildings,  like  a  red  chicken  house  with  white  trim,  and  another  building  painted  the  same  way  whose  purpose  I  never  divined.  My  memory  of  the  land  is  hazy,  and  the  buildings  and  gardens  mesh,  but  I  know  that  their  upkeep  was  meticulous.  I  think  hollyhocks  bloomed  by  the  porch,  but  I  may  have  our  own  hollyhocks  in  mind.  I  know  that  a  linden  tree  grew  in  one  corner  of  the  lawn,  but  when  Itry  to  place  the  maples  I  cannot.  Perhaps  they  lined  the  gravel  driveway,  which  swept  from  Middle  Road,  between  the  house  and  barn,  pastthe  probable  hollyhocks  and  the  linden,  and  out  to  Middle  Road  again.  The  house,  however,  I  recall  well,  for  Itravelled  through  it  often  at  Mrs.  Evans'  heels,  which  is  also  the  reason  I  remember  her  oxfords.  The  kitchen  was  large,  with  a  speckled  linoleum  floor  and  pink  cupboards  and  a  metal  kitchen  stool  with  steps.  I  would  climb  the  steps  and  sit  on  the  red  metal  seat  of  the  stool  and  contemplate  the  speck-  les,  pondering  the  best  way  to  procure  a  treat  from  the  cupboards  of  that  kitchen.  I  would  complain  of  a  feeling  of  emptiness  or  mention  a  peculiar  taste  in  my  mouth-and,  with  a  know-  ing  glance  at  Marjorie  and  a  smile  that  was  made  by  a  flick  of  her  wrinkles,  Mrs.  Evanswould  bring  out  a  cookie     or  a  piece  of  bread  and  butter  laced  with  jam.  The  treats  did  not  go  un-  paid  for,  however-I  entertained  the  Evanses  with  renditions  on  the  piano.  At  the  age  of  six,  I  played  &quot;From  a  Wigwam&quot;  quite  well.  That  piano  is  worth  mentioning,  because  it  was  a  good  upright  of  dark  veneer  and  it  stood  in  a  beautiful,  sunny  room  on  the  south  side  of  thehouse.  Mrs.  Evans  played  hymns  on  it,  and  Marjorie  tried  to  play  hymns  on  it,  and  occasionally  my  mother  played  anything  you  want-  ed  on  it,  by  ear.  You  entered  this  sun-  ny  room  by  way  of  two  wooden  doors  with  clear-glass  panes.  They  had  twin  knobs  of  crystal.  To  get  to  the  glass  doors,  you  passed  through  the  room  that  Mrs.  Evans  called  &quot;the  parlor.&quot;  It  was  an  impor-  tant  room,  kept  warm  in  winter  by  an  ornate  potbellied  stove  that  burned  coal  and  glowed  orangethrough  its  isinglass  windows.  A  galvanized  coal  scoop  al-  ways  stood  on  the  hearth  near  the  stove.  The  floors  of  the  room  were  wide  hardwood  boards  darkly  var-  nished,  and  the  wallpaper  pattern  was  one  that  reminded  you  of  fine  an-  tiques,  of  the  vanishing  of  things  that  are  old  and  good.  COULD  walk  across  the  meadow  to  get  to  the  Evans  farm,  and  in  the  summers  when  I  was  four  and  five  I  would  go  there  by  myself,  usu-  ally  with  my  mother  watching  from  the  kitchen  window  to  make  sure  I  didn't  venture  onto  Middle  Road.  One  spring,  we  started  a  custom  of  deliver-  ing  a  basket  of  wild  flowers  to  the  Evanses'  doorstep  on  the  first  of  May.  I  would  gather  hepaticas  and  violets,  and  we  would  put  them  in  a  basket  labelled  &quot;Happy  May  Day.&quot;  I  was  instructed  to  slip  across  the  meadow  with  my  basket  hidden  behind  me,  pre-  tending  to  be  out  for  a  short  stroll  among  the  dandelions.  Then  I  was  sup-  posed  to  sneak  stealthily  up  the  drive,  put  the  basket  on  the  porch,  knock  on  the  screen  door,  and  run  back  to  my  own  kitchen  without  being  detected,  I  made  certain  that  the  plan  never  quite  worked.  One  year,  I  got  as  far  as  the  end  of  the  drive  before  Mrs.  Evans  called  me  back  for  cookies.  In  subse-  quent  years,  I  made  certain  that  she  was  nearer  the  doorway  before  I  made  my  &quot;retreat.&quot;  Marjorie  had  a  boyfriend  whose  name  was  Earl.  He  drove  over  to  see  her  every  day  in  a  pickup  truck,  and  Mrs.  Evans  said  they  were  &quot;courtin'.&quot;  One  day,  Earl  stopped  coming  to  see  Marjorie,  and  we  heard  that  he  had  married  someone  else.  I  remember  Marjorie  coming  to  see  my  mother  and  " b"crying  in  the  living  room,  saying,  &quot;I  just  guess  I'll  get  married.&quot;  She  didn't,  and  as  the  years  went  by  her  head  grew  rounder  and  her  ways  grew  slower;  she  began  to  wear  oxfords,  and  she  added  a  hairnet  to  her  permanent  wave.  She  always  smiled  when  we  came  to  visit,  and  her  voice  was  very  soft.  \xe2\x80\x98N?  HEN  my  father  bought  the  bulk-refrigeration  tank  for  his  milk,  the  other  farmers  did  the  same,  and  the  milk  plant  with  the  conveyor  belt  for  the  numbered  cans  had  to  close.  Howard  Evans  sold  his  farm  in  1966.  I  was  thirteen,  and  my  father  was  building  a  new  barnwith  a  glass  pipeline  for  the  milk.  I  was  probably  too  interested  in  boys  by  then  to  notice  the  selling  of  the  farm,  because  I  don't  remember  the  auction  or  any  sadness  at  the  Evanses'  going.  That  beautiful  house  with  the  fine  stove  and  the  glass  knobs  and  the  hollyhocks  was  sold  for  thirteen  thousand  dollars.  My  father considered  buying  it  and  didn't,  be-  cause  glass  pipelines  are  expensive.  He  regretted  that  choice  inlater  years.  Howard  sold  off  his  eighty  acres  of  land  in  small  lots.  A  justice  of  the  peace  bought  the  buildings  and  the  land  on  which  they  stood,  and  his  wife  car-  peted  the  varnished  floors  and  sold  the  stove  and  the  piano  and  the  two  glass  doors.  Each  year  at  Christmas,  they  light  up  the  house  and  yard  with  flash-  ing  candles  and  an  electric  Santa  Claus,  and  it  looks  not  unlike  Sidelko's  bar-  and-grill  in  town.  With  the  money  from  the  farm,  the  Evanses  bought  a  two-story  house  in  town,  right  across  from  the  Methodist  church.  They  painted  it  a  warm  yel-  low  and  planted  flowers  all  around.  Mrs,  Evans  stayed  as  straight  and  thin  as  a  rail,  and  Howard  took  a  job  as  caretaker  of  a  small  historical  monu-  ment  in  Steuben,  nearby.  We  always  visited  them  at  Christmas,  and  there  were  always  cookies  When  I  went  away  to  school,  they  sent  me  Christmas  cards  every  year,  signed  &quot;Howard,  Mrs.  Evans,  and  Marjorie.&quot;  They  lived  in  the  yellow  two-story  house  foryears,  and  the  two  women  live  there  still.  Mrs.  Evans  and  Mar-  jorie  look  as  if  they  might  be  the  same  age-two  soft  old  women  living  to-  gether,  who  still  would  smile  and  rec-  ognize  me  if  I  came  to  their  door.  Howard  died  quietly  in  his  sleep  last  January.  He  was  eighty-two  years  old  and  had  been  sick  for  a  long  time.  It  is  only  recently  that  I  have  begun  to  think  about  the  farms  and  the  living  and  the  dying  of  the  men  and  women  on  them.  I  can't  believe  that  I  ever  forgot  the  Evanses  or  their  signifi-  cance  in  my  life,  but  I  did,  for  years  and  years.  When  I  go  home  again,  I  will  sit  at  our  kitchen  window  and  look  past  our  maple  at  the  meadow  and  the  Evans  farm.  From  our  distance,  the  dark-gray  barn  and  house  appear  un-  changed,  representing  to  me  things  that  are  old,  and  good,  and  precious.  "