 b"WE  did  most  of  our  travelling  at  night.  It  was  messy  that  way-the  AM  band  so  jum-  bled  after  dark,  and  Corporal  Claude  refusing  FM  stations  entrance  to  the  van.  Even  after  so  many  had  gone  Country  and  stereo.  If  his  daddy  couldn't  get  it  in  his  hay  truck,  Claude  said,  he  didn't  want  it  in  the  Winne-  bago.  Travelling  coast  to  coast,  he  didn't  notice  state  lines  so  much  as  cir-  cles  of  radiated  power.  He  hated  for  one  signal  to  leapfrog  across  another,  for  [REDACTED]  to  overtake  him  in  Rich-  mond,  for  Wheeling  to  sell  him  baby  chicks  in  [REDACTED].  Between  appearances  (Claude  said  gigs  are  for  frogs),  I  drove  and  com-  posed  grab  lines  while  Claude  sat  in  back  with  his  wife,  Kitty,  regluing  mother-of-pearl  to  the  neck  of  his  gui-  tar.  Here's  a  grab  line:  &quot;Wanderin'  my  way  'cross  from  Waycross  to  Abilene.&quot;  He'd  take  something  like  that,  hang  changes  on  it  between  C,  F,  andG,  and  I'd  fill  in  what  he  called  the  verbi-  age-his  way  of  saying  anyone  could  be  his  driver,  We  were  way  down;  the  act  had  gone  seedy.  Our  last  single,  &quot;The  Pearl  Fell  off  the  Martin  Spelling  Loser  on  the  Floor,&quot;  was  getting  no  air.  We  didn't  even  discuss  Claude's  name  anymore.  It  was  too  late  to  change  it.  He  thought  if  there  could  be  Private  Faron  Young  in  [REDACTED]  there  could  be  Corporal  Claude  Wor-  line  after  [REDACTED].  He  saw  it  as  a  little  promotion  for  Country  in  gen-  eral.  Claude  was  testy  in  those  days,  al-  ways  making  lists  of  things  for  me  to  think  about-his  [REDACTED]  mountain  home,  semis,  prom  night  at  Jellico  High,  radar,  broken  families,  and  the  like.  Kitty  tried  to  keep  the  peace.  She'd  interrupt  whenever  we  passed  a  big  city's  antenna  farm,  and  we'd  all  raise  a  glass.  There  was  a  girl  I  picked  up,  on  the  road  outside  [REDACTED]  one  day,  who  didn't  know  if  she  was  going  to  [REDACTED]  or  San  Francisco.  Claude  wouldn't  have  minded  a  local  rider  in  the  cab  with  me,  but  I  carried  her  out  of  range  of  WSM-tantamount  to  a  breach  of  Mann  with  him-and  he  made  me  put  her  out  before  we  reached  [REDACTED].  Itried  turning  the  incident  to  our  ac-  count:  &quot;If  you're  violatin'  woman,  you  could  be  violatin'  Mann.&quot;  &quot;No  no  no,&quot;  he  squawked.  I  was  out of  line,.  But  Claude  felt  bad  about  rais-  ing  his  voice.  He  sat  up  front  with  me  while  we  crossed  the  [REDACTED],  where  &quot;W&quot;  turns  to  &quot;K&quot;  in  the  call  letters.  &quot;You  know,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;it's  not  the  colored  homogenizing  this  country,  it's  the  Holiday  Inns.&quot;  &quot;Yes?&quot;  I  said.  wouldn't.  &quot;Go  on.&quot;  He  OOKING  him  into  his  home  town  of  Jellico  for  three  nights  was  Claude's  idea,.  He  wanted  to  record  the  live  performances  for  the  retrospec-  tive  '&quot;'Worline:  Roots.&quot;  At  his  old  high  school  they  came  on  ugly.  He  was  do-  ing  the  one  about  his  graduation  night  and  the  boy  who  fell  off  the  town  wa-  ter  tank  after  painting  his  class  nu-  merals.  Claude  was  singing:  and  the  numbers  on  the  tower  were  the  numbers  on  his  stone  when  a  student  called,  &quot;Clean  it  up,  Worline.  This  isn't  1950.&quot;  The  song  was  ruined.  Next  evening,  in  a  benefit  before  Moose,  Elks,  and  Lions,  he  opened  with  &quot;TheyWon't  Have  to  Ride  Any  School  Bus  up  There,&quot;  asacred  num-  ber  about  misused  schoolchildren.  There  was  no  applause  in  the  lodge  hall,  which  made  the  song  useless  for  a  live  album.  Right  onstage,  Claude  called  them  animals,  There  was  no  third  night.  There  were  some  picket  lines  he  wouldn't  cross.  Routed  in  his  back  yard,  he  went  soft  and  teary,  and  said  do  with  him  what  we  would,  Kitty  and  I  set  to  work  on  new  material.  Inspired  by  some  children  in  [REDACTED],  I'd  written:  Let  'em  out  for  recess,  march  'em  through  the  hall,  There's  no  time  for  lessons,  they  just  call  the  roll.  It  doesn't  matter  if  they  pass  or  they  fail,  They  don't  play  school,  theyplay  jail.  Right  off  we  had  a  problem.  Claude  said  how  could  he  sing  what  caught  in  his  craw  on  the  way  to  his  throat.  He  wanted  the  three  R's  in  there  some-  where.  When  I  explained  how  schools  these  days  were  really  performing  more  of  a  custodial  function,  he  spat  and  told  me  be  careful  how  I  talked  around  him.  My  turn  to  yell.  &quot;You've  sung  in  San  Quentin.  You've  done  time  of  your  own.  The  AMs  in  the  pickups  are  al-  ready  tuned  in.&quot;&quot;  There  was  a  brief  silence  after  &quot;They  Don't  Play  School&quot;  was  issued,  while  the  industry  took  " b"stock.  Claude  said  there  wouldn't  be  a  pedal  steel  in  [REDACTED]  who'd  cut  with  him.  Two  months  later  the  song  was  on  top,  we'd  hired  another  driver,  and  I  was  riding  in  back  with  Claude  and  Kitty.  COUNTRY  GHETTO  exploded  all  over  the  dial.  &quot;So  let  them  chase,&quot;  I  told  Claude,  &quot;but  don't  let  them  pass  on  the  left.&quot;  Kitty  watched  our  rear.  &quot;Listen,&quot;  she  said  late  one  night.  She  was  following  a  station  up  and  down,  anticipating  the  drift,  and  we  never  missed  a  word  of  &quot;Sad-Eyed  Social  Worker.&quot;  I  knew  we'd  have  to  move  again  and  that  Claude  would  kick  and  struggle.  He  still  thought  there  were  things  you  had  to  spell  in  Country-like  d-i-v-o-r-c-e  when  it's  mentioned  around  children,  Kitty  was  in  favor  of  something  I'd  written  about  a  city  child  on  the  take  from  his  mother's  purse:  Is  this  play  money,  Mommy?  She  told  him  no,  it's  real,  Take  it  to  the  Chain  Food  And  you  won't  have  to  steal.  Claude  said  he  wasn't  deceived  by  our  plan  to  bring  him  out  for  food  stamps.  We  were  drifting.  A  song  about  a  subway  suicide  was  climbing  toward  the  top,  and  here  was  Claude  remind-  ing  us  how  unsentimental  he  was  about  city  rolling  stock.  I  offered  a  rehash  of  our  first  hit:  Now  the  only  bars  he  knows  are  the  ones  without  a  rail,  He  don't  play  house,  he  plays  jail.  Claude  and  Kitty  recorded  it.  There  were  ho-hums  from  d.j.s  and  further  loss  of  chart  momentum.  The  trades  said  the  Father  of  Country  Ghetto  was  denying  his  own  movement.  In  piqueKitty  took  the  studs  I'd  put  in  her  Christmas  stocking  and  wrote  &quot;KING  OF  THE  GHETTO  NATION  across  the  yoke  of  Claude's  favorite  shirt-just  to  remind  him  who  he  was.  He  complained  it  had  got  too  heavy  to  wear  and  left  it  in  a  laundry  in  Tu-  cumcari.  It  hangs  today  over  the  san-  dals  at  his  birthplace.  THE  threat  of  a  second  obscurity  seemed  to  make  a  thinker  of  Claude.  &quot;Sonny,&quot;  he  told  me,  one  night  after  a  long-distance  quarrel  with  his  booking  agent,  &quot;a  liberal's  just  someone  who  believes  it's  all  rigged  from  day  one.  You've  got  to  help  feed  a  man  who's  been  programmed  to  starve.&quot;  A  hostile  reporter  had  heard  him  say  he'd  never  be  outlibbed  again.  Claude  had  denied  it,  but  now  he  said  write  what  I  would.  I  started  with  a  broken  family:  You  can't  see  your  daddy,  son,  He  wasn't  born  to  roam,  But  the  Man  won't  let  him  go  to  work  And  Welfare  won't  let  him  come  home.  &quot;Daddy's  Invisible&quot;  turned  it  around  for  us,  There  was  a  succession  of  hits  and  a  new  diversity  to  his  audi-  ence.  I'm  certain  the  new  faces  pleased  Claude,  who  remarked  he  could  no  longer  read  the  messages  on  the  go-to-  hell  T-shirts  for  the  synthetic  glare  of  leisure  suits.  At  the  Terre  Haute  con-  cert  the  football  coach,  Royal  Forest,  was  photographed  braiding  my  hair.  Claude  had  it  all-timbre,  the  way  his  voice  slid  from  the  G  chord  down  to  F,  and  words  (they  came  so  easily  in  those  days).  Then  it  was  coliseums  and  wonder  domes:  dizzy  stuff  for  those  ofus  who  thought  we  owned  his  head.  Neither  Kitty  nor  I  realized  how  far  he  was  moving.  The  late-night  reading,  the  depth  of  \xc2\xae  the  eyes  should  have  told  us  something.  Hunting  inner-city  grab  lines,  I'd  paid  no  attention  to  the  rattle  of  stone  on  Formica-Claude  throwing  the  I  Ching  in  the  Winnebago's  lavatory.  But  I  knew  it  was  a  country  boy's  sur-  render  to  fate  when  I  saw  him  blow-  ing  on  the  stones  and  talking  to  them  before  the  toss  that  sent  us  South  again.  Let  a  Beatle  hire  a  guru;  Claude  was  going  to  be  his  own  holy  man.  He  acted  betrayed  when  he  came  back  to  the  van  one  night  in  Jackson-  ville  and  found  a  party  of  band  mem-  bers  and  roadies  in  progress.  Beer  had  been  spilled  on  the  new  leather-bound  Gibran.  Revellers  slunk  away.  I  thought  the  recently  pierced  ear  might  have  flared  up  again,  but  something  else  was  gnawing  him.  The  next  morning  I  tried  a  new  line:  &quot;I'll  run  the  numbers  till  a  num-  ber's  my  name.&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  Claude  said.  &quot;Window's  always  open  where  it  hasn't  got  a  pane?&quot;  &quot;No.&quot;  And  patiently,  quietly,  he  ex-  " b"plained  this  dream  he'd  had-a  kind  of  C.  &amp;  W.  opera  in  which  the  Su-  preme  Spirit  is  revealed  as  airwaves.  &quot;What  we're  looking  at  here  is  aper-  fect  circle  of  radiated  power,&quot;  he  con-  fided  to  me.  There  were  several  more  months  of  gestation  before  he  began  his  allegory,  &quot;Heaven's  Radio&quot;-that  tale  of  sin  and  redemption  in  which  an  Ameri-  can  gypsy  represents  a  messiah  figure  and  the  messiah  is  really  a  cloud  of  radio  and  television  signals  hanging  over  the  continental  United  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  and  [REDACTED].  &quot;It  succeeds  on  a  whole  lot  of  lev-  els,&quot;  Claude  said.  And  indeed  it  did.  The  five-disc  album  of  fifty  cantos-  one  for  each  state  in  the  Union-for-  ever  changed  [REDACTED]'s  notion  of  the  purview  of  Country  music.  But  the  two  years  of  composition  and  record-  ing,  the  months  of  squabbling  over  mix-  ing  rights  left  Claude  depleted.  With  the  album  out  at  last  and  a  movie  version  ofthe  opera  in  release,  interviewers  began  to  probe  his  philoso-  phy.  &quot;Being  down  here  on  earth's  kinda  like  coming  outa  the  chutes,&quot;  he'd  say.  &quot;If  you  get  bucked  off,  you  got  to  go  back  for  another  ride.&quot;  I'd  nudge  him  and  he'd  begin  again.  &quot;'Maybe  it's  more  like  going  to  [REDACTED]  147.  If  you  fail  Miss  Jackson's  third,  you  got  to  take  it  over  from  Mrs.  Millard.&quot;  N  the  last  months,  Claude  burned  with  a  hard  flame  and  reporters  following  the  tour  sensed  the  end.  They  asked  me  for  the  color  of  his  pills.  I  told  them  the  only  times  I'd  ever  heard  Claude  mention  the  effects  of  drugs  or  alcohol  were  in  a  PX  beer  garden  and  travelling  through  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  when  he  said,  &quot;I  hate  this  three-point-two  stuff.&quot;  We  toured  the  nation  with  &quot;Heav-  en's  Radio,&quot;  three  tractor-trailers  car-  rying  the  gear  and  instruments  of  our  band,  which  had  become  something  more  like  an  orchestra.  Technicians  swarmed  around  us.  I  feared  they  might  send  an  idea  man  into  eclipse,  but  Claude  always  kept  me  out  front.  &quot;Those  fellas  couldn't  tell  karma  from  an  overdub,&quot;  he  reassured  me.  His  last  show  was  in  San  Jose-an  open-air  performance  of  the  [REDACTED]  Canto.  One  of  the  violins  had  been  hotdogging  it  with  his  wa-wa  pedal,  but  the  libretto  held  the  crowd.  Claude  was  finishing  the  passage  in  which  Pietro,  the  gypsy,  is  stoned  by  shop-  keepers  of  a  huge  mall  where  crowds  of  lowriders,  even  shoppers,  have  been  listening  to  his  voice  and  guitar.  We  were  using  the  New  Electron-  ics.  Backdrops  were  projected  onto  a  huge  square  of  sky  over  the  stage,  with-  out  benefit  of  screen.  Live  images  of  Claude  and  the  cast  were  magni-  fied  and  superimposed  on  this  ethereal  scenery.  It  amounted  to  a  free  perform-  ance  for  all  of  San  Jose  north  of  the  mall.  In  the  opera,  Pietro  seems  mortally  wounded.  Squad  cars  arrive,  but  he  dis-  appears  before  he's  brought  to  book.  Sound  fills  the  night  as  his  voice  is  heard  over  all  lowrider  radios  and  po-  lice  channels  (in  the  movie  he  appears  simultaneously  on  banks  of  TV  sets  in  the  appliance  stores),  asking  the  people  to  listen  for  him  another  day  on  an-  other  mall.  San  Jose  police  and  the  population  weren't  prepared.  Confused  by  the  new  medium,  they  came  on  foot  and  by  car-some  to  see  Claude  in  the  flesh,  some  to  join  battle-and  found  action  in  the  parking  lot.  A  lowrider  demon-  strating  hydraulic  pushups  had  been  ac-  cused  of  throwing  a  rock  at  Claude.  His  car  was  overturned.  &quot;We've  got  a  riot  situation  here,  Sonny,&quot;  Claude  said.  &quot;If  I  get  out  of  this  one,  I'm  going  home  to  Jellico.&quot;  Kitty  heard  &quot;Jericho&quot;  as  Claude's  aside  to  me  hit  the  microphones.  The  projectionist  turned  his  camera  on  my  prompting  card.  Claude  was  beamed  down,  the  word  &quot;FOOTWEAR&quot;  beamed  up.  The  people  gradually  came  to  their  senses.  There  was  the  usual  box  of  sandals  on  the  stage.  As  Claude  stepped  into  pair  after  pair  (replicas  of  his  own,  with  corn-pad  recess),  an  assistant  passed  them  into  the  audience.  But,  distracted  by  cardiac  incident,  Claude  had  lost  his  place  in  the  score.  I  watched  his  hand  go  to  his  chest.  While  he  lay  warm  on  the  stage  a  reporter  from  one  of  the  tabloids  tried  for  a  blood  sample.  I  broke  the  ghoul's  needle.  KITTY  and  I  are  on  the  road  again.  Her  voice  carries  the  act;  still,  she  gives  me  full  credit  for  lyrics.  In  that  first  year  of  mourning,  when  she  came  to  me  so  many  times  for  advice,  I  told  her  space  was  certainly  the  fu-  ture  home  of  Country.  Hoping  she'd  try  a  lothario-flying  and  unidenti-  fied-I  pretended  he'd  arrived  during  a  reverie  one  evening  while  we  waited  for  a  convoy  to  pass  on  I-40:  Just  another  phantom  blip  On  the  radar  screen  of  love.  But  Kitty's  feet  were  firm  on  the  planet.  She  doubted  you  could  press  A-11  in  an  intergalactic  beer  hall  and  get  music.  No,  she  felt  Bakke  and  the  recent  tax  referenda  showed  a  return  to  the  verities,  to  the  hard  work  and  self-pity  on  which  the  industry  was  founded.  No  one  could  follow  a  drift  on  the  Country  diallike  Kitty,  All  she  wanted  was  a  short  phrase  now  and  then,  something  memorable  over  the  clink  of  coffee  spoons. "