 b"I  LIVE  in  the  mountains  west  of  Boulder,  [REDACTED].  The  road  I  live  on  is  called  Four  Mile  [REDACTED],  though  actually  it  winds  for  five  miles,  not  four,  from  Boulder  [REDACTED]  (Highway  119),  which  is  the  route  from  Boulder  on  the  plains  to  Neder-  land  in  the  mountains.  My  road  cuts  right  off  that  about  two  miles  outside  of  Boulder.  Four  Mile  [REDACTED]  has  houses  on  the  road,  houses  off  the  road,  and  houses  hidden  in  the  trees  and  perched  on  rocks,  near  and  far,  here  and  there,  though  on  the  other  hand  compared  to  most  of  [REDACTED]  the  road  is  sparsely  populated,  and  after  five  miles  it  ends  and  you  haven't  reached  my  house  yet.  After  five  miles  Four  Mile's  asphalt  becomes  a  fork,  dirt  both  ways.  I  live  to  the  left,  one  and  a  half  miles  farther  along.  That  is,  after  one  and  a  half  miles  with  not  a  dozen  houses,  you  come  to  a  cluster  of  cabins  called  Wallstreet.  That's  where  I  live.  My  neighbors  are  mostly  young  people,  not  mountain  people,  though  there  are  mountain  people  here  and  there,  and  the  young  people  consider  themselves  mountain  people,  though  they're  not.  Many  of  them  are  not  young  anymore,  either,  though  they're  still  &quot;young  people,&quot;  and  some  of  them  are  young  people  in  the  process  of  turning  into  mountain  people  by  virtue  of  continuing  to  be  here,  though  not  turning  into  the  moun-  tain  people  who  came  before,  who  were  min-  ers  and  the  rest  of  that-gold  miners,  sil-  ver  miners,  and  saloon-  keepers,  loggers  and  blue-eyed  lady  alco-  holics.  Many  but  not  all  of  the  people  who  live  here  now  came  re-  cently  from  places  like  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED].  Many  but  not  all  commute  for  a  liv-  ing  to  Boulder  every  day.  Some  few,  how-  ever,  do  not  seem  to  do  this,  despite  the  system  of  our  times.  People  live  tucked  away  in  these  mountains  who  do  not  run  downtown  to  work.  But  they  are  people  one  does  not  see  much.  'They  keep  to  themselves,  chopping  wood,  drawing  water.  Except  for  the  [REDACTED]  man.  The  [REDACTED]  man,  if  you  live  where  I  live  in  these  mountains,  you  see  every  day.  GUESS  I'd  been  living  here  for  nearly  a  year  before  I  became  aware  of  something.  I  had  been  a  busy  and  distracted  person  like  everyone  else,  working  in  Boulder  and  not  spending  day  after  day  up  here,  but  then  came  the  time  when  I  found  myself  free  of  the  obligation  to  work  in  town.  Not  three  weeks  passed  before  I  became  aware  of  the  [REDACTED]  man;  that  is,  I  had  noticed  the  shiny  brown  delivery  van  before,  but  I  had  never  looked  at  it.  I  had  never  actually  seen  it.  One  day,  as  it  passed  on  the  road  for  the  hundredth  time,  I  looked  up  from  the  book  I  was  reading  and  a  chill  went  down  my  back.  I  dropped  the  book  and  stood  up,  and  soon  I  was  pacing  back  and  forth.  I  felt  nervous  and  smoked  many  cigarettes  that  day.  The  [REDACTED]  man  shouldn't  have  been  here.  There  was  no  way  a  [REDACTED]  van  could  have  a  daily  route  on  our  road.  There  simply  are  not  enough  people  on  the  road  to  warrant  it.  After  Wallstreet  the  road,  with  few  houses  on  it,  climbs  into  the  mountains  and  turns  into  a  jeep  trail.  It  doesn't  go  anywhere  else.  But  four  or  five  times  a  week  the  [REDACTED]  van  drives  up  and  down  the  road,  usually  in  the  morning,  and  of-  ten  the  driver  stops  and  parks,  or  gets  out  and  walks  around,  looking  into  a  mailbox  now  and  then,  smoking  a  Marlboro.  Always  he  is  dressed  in  the  dark-brown  uniform  of  the  United  Parcel  Service-a  young,  athletic-look-  ing  man  with  short  blond  hair  and  a  blond  mustache.  FTER  that  day,  I  looked  at  the  [REDACTED]  man  and  his  van  with  interest,  to  say  the  least.  Not  that  I  had  the  opportunity  to  really  study  him,  because  I  live  on  the  rare  straight  stretch  of  an  otherwise  winding  road,  and  what  traffic  there  is  does  roll  along.  Besides,  for  a  while  still  I  had  other  things  to  do.  I  wasn't  going  to  drop  everything  for  a  possible  premo-  nition,  and  so  I  turned  it  into  a  joke,  actually.  When  I  get  right  down  to  it,  a  man  who  for  reasons  known  to  himself  somehow  procures  a  [REDACTED]  delivery  van  (a  nearly  new  one,  at  that)  and  uniform,  or  at  least  a  dark-brown  flannel  shirt  and  brown  pants,  and  drives  up  and  down  our  road,  day  after  day-some-  one  like  that  elicits  a  nervous  kind  of  laugh-  ter.  But  have  I  ever  so  much  as  checked  to  see  if  he  wears  differ-  ent  pairs  of  pants  of  similar  color?  Have  I  looked  for  the  famous-  make  back-pocket  label  that  would  betray  him,  since  there  is  no  such  label  on  a  United  Par-  cel  Service  uniform?  I  haven't  even  inquired  of  the  United  Parcel  Service  company  itself:  Are  their  men  issued  uniforms,  or  are  they  free  to  wear  anything  so  long  as  it's  dark  brown?  How  can  I  say  I'm  seriously  investi-  gating  the  situation  when  I  haven't  asked  these  questions?  But  the  fact  re-  mains.  The  fact  re-  mains.  The  guy  cruises  the  neighborhood.  He  drives  back  and  forth,  over  a  section  of  road  " b"not  a  mile  long,  disappearing  and  then  reappearing  thirty  minutes  later,  and  occasionally  an  hour  after  that.  I've  seen  him,  as  I  said,  get  out  and  check  a  mailbox,  clipboard  in  hand,  then  drive  fifty  yards  up  the  road  to  chat  with  a  neighbor.  I've  never  yet  seen  him  on  a  Saturday  or  Sunday.  But  I've  never  yet  seen  him  deliver  a  package,  either.  And  I've  never  yet  seen  him  on  Four  Mile  [REDACTED]  Road  itself,  which  is  a  mere  mile  and  a  half  away.  However,  the  conclu-  sion  I'm  left  with  is  also  a  problem.  This  person  is  acting  out  the  fantasy  of  being  a  [REDACTED]  man.  This  person  bought  the  van  and  acquired  the  cloth-  ing.  He  decided  to  face  that  particular  fantasy  and  make  its  life  his  own.  May-  be  he  once  worked  for  the  United  Par-  cel  Service  and  things  didn't  go  right  for  him  after  that.  Maybe  he  felt  he  was  let  go  unfairly  and  is  keeping  in  shape  for  after  a  favorable  court  rul-  ing,  when  the  company  will  be  forced  to  let  him  resume  his  duties.  But  what-  ever  the  explanation,  the  [REDACTED]  man  does  not  appear  furtive  or  withdrawn.  He  waves  when  we  pass  each  other  on  the  road.  He  waves  and  smiles.  And  my  neighbors  around  here,  notoriously  self-involved  people,  will  be  of  no  help  in  clearing  up  this  matter.  In  fact,  I  once  asked  my  neighbor  immediately  to  the  west,  the  one  who  makes  guitars  and  mandolins,  who  has  lived  here  for  eight  years-I  once  asked  him  about  the  [REDACTED]  man.  My  neighbor  imme-  diately  to  the  west,  who  makes  guitars  and  mandolins,  but  whom  I  often  see  walking  the  length  of  Wallstreet  early  in  the  morning,  shod  always  in  nylon  trackshoes  no  matter  what  the  season,  and  returning  in  the  afternoon  ex-  hausted,  his  hands  black  with  grease  as  though  he  had  been  installing  a  trans-  mission,  but  day  after  day-I  asked  that  neighbor  recently,  and  he  grinned  and  said,  &quot;That's  the  [REDACTED]  man,  right?&quot;  He  turned  and  hobbled  back  up  the  snow-covered  road  to  his  house,  and  I  returned  to  sit  in  the  doorway  of  mine,  elbow  on  my  knee  and  chin  sunk  into  my  palm,  staring  reflectively  into  the  pines.  The  sky  often  is  bright  blue  here  with  no  clouds  whatsoever,  but  when  the  strong  wind  roars  down  canyons  from  the  snow  peaks  of  the  continental  divide,  the  steep  hills  catch  it  and  the  wind  lifts  snow  into  the  air,  until  on  some  days  tidal  waves  of  white  powder  swirl  down  the  slopes,  painting  out  the  sky,  the  trees,  and  the  houses,  and  on  a  day  in  reality  possessed  of  blue  skies  and  brilliant  sunlight  I  look  out  my  window  and  can't  see  anything  at  all."