 b"I HAD  found  all  at  once  that  ter-  I  rible  things  happened  when  I  went  out.  As  I  was  driving  to  work  one  morning,  a  car  hit  mineand  one  of  my  headlights  was  shattered.  It  made  me  feel  off  balance-as  though  I  were  seeing  through  one  eye-and  I  quit  my  job  that  day.  The  next  time  I  went  out,  I  got  lost  looking  for  a  book-  store  in  an  area  of  [REDACTED]  I  knew  well.  Then,  during  the  Christmas  rush,  a  woman,  flung  against  me  by  the  crowd,  caused  me  to  drop  my  bag  of  groceries,  breaking  a  dozen  eggs.  &quot;Scrambled,&quot;  a  man  with  a  cigar  said.  I  went  back  to  my  parents'  house,  and  for  six  weeks  hardly  left  my  room.  When  Walker  Potter  called,  in  ear-  ly  March,  and  asked  me  to  go  to  a  poetry  reading,  his  voice  on  the  tele-  phone  was  steady  and  even-toned.  I  hoped  some  of  that  steadiness  might  be  conferred  upon  me  the  way  when  one  person  in  a  room  yawns  the  others  can't  help  doing  the  same.  During  that  year  the  Potters  in-  vitations  held  great  power.  Saying  no  to  them,  it  was  clear,  was  saying  no  to  rehabilitation.  I'd  gone  to  school  with  Walker's  sister,  Victoria,  and  when  she  moved  to  San  Francisco  I  became  friends  with  Walker  and  their  mother  as  well.  I  was  weak  enough  to  do  what  they  asked  as  long  as  the  prospect  was  less  painful  than  the  walls  of  my  room.  There  each  wall  was  broken  by  a  door-to  the  study,the  bathroom,  the  closet,  and  the  hall.  I  dreamed  I'd  be  better  if  those  walls  were  unbroken  expanses.  The  night  of  the  reading,  I  shut  all  of  the  doors  as  if  I  had  acat  or  dog  I  wanted  to  be  there  when  I  got  back,  and  went  out  to  meet  Walker  on  a  rainy  street  corner  by  the  M.T.A.  station.  These  were  the  circumstances:  Walker  had  met  Miss  Thorndyke,  the  woman  who  sponsored  these  bimonth-  ly  poetry  readings,  at  a  series  of  art  lectures  at  the  Gardner  Museum.  Miss  Thorndyke  had  greatly  admired  the  questions  Walker  asked  the  lecturer.  She  had  approached  him  at  the  end  of  one  of  the  lectures  and  told  him  about  these  poetry  readings  that  were  held  in  her  apartment.  She  had  such  in-  teresting  people.  Wouldn't  he  come?  He  had  promised.  Another  month  went  by  and  she  reminded  him.  Now  it  had  been  half  a  year,  and  when  Walker  saw  her  at  the  museum  he  felt  guilty.  Though  he  dreaded  the  inter-  esting  people,  he  would  have  to  go.  I  was  at  the  corner  first,  but  Walk-  er  hurried  up  before  I'd  even  begun  to  worry  that  he  wouldn't  come.  He  wore  his  trenchcoat  belted  and  a  cap  with  a  bill.  He  was  very  thin  and  tall,  and  only  the  skirt  of  his  coat  blown  out  by  the  wind  and  the  bill  of  his  cap gave  him  a  third  dimension.  &quot;You're  here,&quot;  he  said.  'Yes.  I  hope  this  won't  be  too  aw-  ful.&quot;  &quot;You  should  try  not  to  worry  so  much.&quot;  &quot;How's  your  mother?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;I  spoke  to  her  the  other  day,  and  she  mentioned  something  about  helping  with  her  spring  cleaning.&quot;  &quot;How  fortunate  you  are,&quot;  he  said  solemnly.  When  we  came  out  of  the  train,  we  were  lost.  Walker  knew  Back  Bay  as  little  as  I  did.  The  rain  had  picked  up  and  the  hem  of  my  dress  was  damp  around  my  knees.  We  circled  blocks.  Walker  asked  a  man  if  he  knew  where  Locust  Street  was,  but  the  man  only  said,  &quot;Yes,&quot;  and  hurried  on.  He  looked  Japanese.  Then  we  found  it.  It  was  the  nar-  rowest  building  on  the  block,  squeezed  between  two  solid  administrative  build-  ings  of  some  secretarial  school.  &quot;From  this  we  know  that  secretaries  are  fat  and  healthy,  while  poets  starve,&quot;  Walk-  er  said,  but  I  knew  he  wasn't  bitter,  because  he  didn't  write  poetry  himself.  His  favorite  poem  began,  &quot;Loveliest  of  trees,  the  cherry  now  ...&quot;  I  had  learned  things  about  Walker  from  Vic-  toria,  and  sometimes  I  had  spent  the  night  in  his  room  while  he  was  away  at  college.  We  walked  up  four  flights  of  stairs.  On  the  fifth  floor  a  door  was  open  and  there  were  sounds  of  talking.  &quot;The  poets,&quot;  I  said.  We  were  drawn  in-  to  a  room  where  we  knew  no  one.  The  conversation  stopped  for  a  minute  and  a  girl  in  red  clamdig-  gers  and  a  silk  kimono  said,  &quot;Thorny's  in  the  kitchen  making  coffee.&quot;  Just  as  she  said  this,  a  woman  appeared  in  the  doorway.  &quot;Dear  Walker,&quot;  she  said,  as  though  she  were  test-  ing  the  range  of  her  voice.  Her  hair  was  impossibly  red  for  a  woman  in  her  middle  fifties,  and  it  stood  out  from  her  head  in  sep-  arate  spikes  like  an  artist's  rendering  of  fire.  She  wore  pink  toe  shoes  and  a  man's  oxford  shirt  tucked  into  royal-blue  stretch  pants.  " b"   Her  face,  powdered  as  pink  as  the  toe  shoes,  was  absurdly  happy  to  see  Walk-  er.  &quot;And  you've  brought  a  friend.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  this  is  Ruth.&quot;  Miss  Thorndyke  introduced  us  to  a  pair  of  women  sitting  cross-legged  on  the  floor,  a  man  in  a  business  suit,  a  boy  with  a  guitar,  and  some  other  peo-  ple,  on  pillows,  in  corners,  everywhere.  Walker  and  I  shared  the  piano  bench  and  accepted  cups  of  herb  tea  so  strong  that  I  was  sure  it  had  some  purpose.  Miss  Thorndyke  took  a  chair  by  the  fireplace  and  smiled.  &quot;We'll  begin.  Mona,  would  you  like  to  read  first?&quot;  Mona  pulled  a  piece  of  paper  from  her  leather  bag.  Her  poem  seemed  to  be  about  roses  and  menstruation,  and  she  read  it  in  a  shrill,  monotonous  voice.  When  she  was  done,  Miss  Thorn-  dyke  said,  &quot;That  was  lovely,  Mona.&quot;  Sitting  as  we  were,  side  by  side  on  the  bench,  Walker  and  I  couldn't  look  at  each  other  without  being  obvious.  If  we'd  been  lovers,  I  might  have  squeezed  his  hand,  but  it  wasn't  Walk-  er  that  I  loved.  I  didn't  know  whom  he  loved,  though  once  when  we  passed  a  church  in  [REDACTED]  he'd  told  me  that  he  would  like  to  be  married  there.  Miss  Thorndyke  chose  another  woman  to  read  next,  who  was  tense  and  gray-haired,  with  eyes  that  were  stretched  wide  open.  I've  always  won-  dered  about  people  with  very  clear  blue  eyes:  do  they  see  more?  Her  poem  was  about  the  spring  and  I  liked  it  very  much,  though  she  read  quickly,  with  a  grim  smile.  Then  the  businessman  read  a  long  prose  poem  about  a  trip  to  Bel-  gium.  My  back  was  tired  from  sitting  with  nothing  to  lean  against.  Walker  was  still  sitting  stiffly,  hardly  moving  at  all.  He  lived  with  his  widowed  mother  in  a  dark  small  room  at  the  back  of  her  house.  He  was  almost  thir-  ty  and  had  been  there  since  he  finished  college.  I  was  livingat  home  too,  of  course,  keeping  strange  hours  to  avoid  my  parents  in  the  kitchen  or  the  halls.  Now  I  thought  I  might  take  my  savings  from  the  bankand  go  some-  where  far  away.  I  wasn't  sure  where.  If  I  were  going  to  go  by  boat,  all  of  these  people  might  be  my  fellow-  passengers.  It  would  be  an  imposing  ship,  like  the   whose  purser  had  arranged  this  evening's  entertainment  in  the  blink  of  an  eye.  Of  course,  it  was  too  wet  to  promenade  on  the  deck,  as  we  had  other  evenings.  We  were  sailing  on  this  grand  ship  to  another  hemi-  sphere  forthe  winter.  Walker,  I  knew,  had  great  respect  for  tradition  and  property.  I  wanted  to  ask  what  he  thought  of  the  odd  passenger  list.  Though  his  mother  would  buy  un-  dignified  things  at  the  supermarket-  pistachio-flavored  jello  or  chicken  spread  in  a  can-Walker  invariably  wore  a  jacket  and  tie  at  the  dinner  table.  The  poem  about  [REDACTED]  ended.  MA  M-  The  last  line,  about  a  pigeon  flying  into  the  station  &quot;gray  as  a  commuter,&quot;  reminded  me  of  [REDACTED],  and  I  won-  dered  whether  this  man  had  been  to  [REDACTED]  at  all.  Walker,  I  knew,  must  be  appalled  by  all  of  this;  he'd  always  had  a  prejudice  against  strange  peo-  ple.  I  wondered  what  the  best  way  for  normal  people  to  behave  among  strange  oneswas.  I  didn't  want  to  dis-  appoint  Walker,  because  he  might  very  well  tell  his  motherand  sister.  There  was  a  silence,  as  befits  the  end  ofa  long,  dull  poem.  Miss  Thorn-  dyke  stood,  her  list  in  her  hand.  &quot;I  think  Twenty-seven  has  something  for  us.&quot;  Twenty-seven  turned  out  to  be  the  young  man  with  the  guitar.  He  had  sleek  black  hair  parted  in  the  middle  and  a  crooked  scar  at  the  corner  of  his  mouth  which  did  not  allow  him  to  stop  smiling.  He  struck  a  harsh  chord  and  began  to  intone,  &quot;I'm  going  away  on  a  train.  I  won't  be  back  again.&quot;  At  the  end  of  every  couplet  came  another  chord,  each  one  booming  louder  in  the  crowded  room.  I  suddenly  had  to  go  to  the  bathroom.  The  door  was  shut,  and  there  was  noanswer  when  I  knocked.  As  I  opened  the  door,  two  cats  ran  by  me,.  I  entered  and  closed  the  door  behind  me  and  was  left  with  their  smell.  Through  the  wall  I  heard  the  consternation  I'd  caused  in  the  next  room.  When  I  came  out,  Miss  Thorndyke  was  waiting  with  a  gray-and-white  " b"spotted  cat  under  one  arm  and  a  thin  black  one  under  the  other.  &quot;I'm  sorry,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  didn't  know  they  were  there.&quot;  &quot;'You'll  read  something  for  us?&quot;  she  asked,  her  eyebrows  rising,  mobile  as  a  clown's.  &quot;I'm  sorry,&quot;  I  said  again.  &quot;I'm  not  a  writer.  I  don't  have  anything.&quot;  I  remembered  that  in  school  people  used  to  say  &quot;The  dog  ate  it,&quot;  so  now,  with  a  smile  to  show  that  I  was  joking,  I  said  this  to  Miss  Thorndyke.  She  looked  at  me  quizzically,  then  at  the  two  cats  under  her  arms.  I  wondered  how  much  longer  Walker  and  I  would  stay.  I  liked  being  there  better  than  at  home.  Though  I  always  wanted  to  say  no  when  peo-  ple  asked  me  to  do  things,  once  I  did  them  I  felt  better.  Things  were  im-  proving  slowly.  I  felt  I  was  travelling  a  long  distance,  though  I  wasn't  sure  in  what  direction.  I  liked  to  think  of  it  as  an  anatomical  journey:  first  a  leg,  then  perhaps  an  arm,  some  other  day  the  torso  and  a  hand,  and  finally  the  head.  When  I  had  completed  the   head-rounded  the  hor  n-I  would  be  well  again.  This  was  much  better  than  the  voyage  on  t  he  QE  2  ,  which,  I  now  real  ized,  would  be  c  ircular  and  leave  me  off  at  the  port  where  I  had  em  barked.  When  the  reading  was  over,  we  would  get  on  the  M.T.  A.  again  and  go  home.  I  would  have  liked  to  go  to  Walker's  little  room,  and  h  e  could  have  gone  to  mine.  He  would  do  well  taking  up  my  life  where  I'd  left  off.  He'd  wake  up  in  the  morning  and  go  down  to  breakfast  with  my  parents.  &quot;Yes,  one  sunny  side  up,  thank  you,&quot;  Walker  would  te  ll  my  mother.  And  the  pictures  in  my  room  wouldn't  look  crooked,  so  he  would  hav  e  to  jump  out  of  bed  to  tilt  one  a  little  in  one  direc-  tion,  and  then  a  few  minutes  lat  er  back  the  other  way.  People  began  to  chat  about  the  rain,  muste  ring  cou  rage  to  go  out  into  it.  I  always  feel  sad  when  I  leave  a  place  where  people  haven't  been  un-  pleasant.  Of  course,  it  was  fine  t  o  look  at  Walker  now.  How  s  harp  his  nose  was.  My  mother  once  sa  id  that  it  slice  the  air  in  fron  t  of  him  like  a  knife  as  h  e  walked.  I  beli  eve  d  this.  When  the  air  was  cu  t  into  two  parts,  Walk-  er  stepped  bravely  between,  like  an  explo  rer  into  the  blac  k  mouth  of  a  c  ave.  On  the  way  home,  we  were  lost  again.  Looking  for  the  M.T.A.,  we  passed  Twenty-seven  with  his  guita  r.  He  held  it  over  his  shoulder  with  no  case,  and  un  der  the  street  light  it  glis-  tened  in  the  r  ain.  \xc2\xab&quot;Well,  what  did  you  think?&quot;  Walk-  er  asked,  taking  great  stiff-legge  d  str  ides  ove  r  puddles.  He  began  to  laugh  his  high-  pi  tched  ,  hiccupping  laugh  and  I  l  aughe  d  ,  too,  so  that  my  stomach  hurt  an  d  I  had  to  lean  against  a  lamp-  post  to  steady  myself.  On  the  space  between  m  y  ha  t  and  coat  I  felt  the  wet  metal  against  the  skin  of  my  neck,  like  an  unexpected  ha  nd.  I  sprang  away  from  it.  WEEK  later,  Mrs.  Potter  ,  hunting  for  some  papers  in  the  basement  of  the  building  s  he  own  ed,  asked  me  to  move  heavy  boxes  and  help  her  clean  up  a  little:  &quot;You'll  come,&quot;  she  had  said  to  me  on  the  tele-  phone,  and  I  could  hear  no  que  stio  n  in  her  voice.  I  was  uneasy  abo  ut  this.  I  was  still  mapping  o  ut  my  journey,  and  I  wasn't  sure  whet  her  I'd  gone  in  the  right  directi  o  n  following  W  alker  to  the  poetry  reading.  But  I  trusted  M  rs.  Potter.  She  was  a  very  ordinary  per-  son,  who  c  ould  no  more  los  e  her  o  rdi-  nariness  than  someone  walking  down  a  long  straight  corr  ido  r  can  lose  his  way.  Mrs.  P  otter's  five-story  b  uildi  n  g  was  downtown.  T  wo  floors  were  taken  up  by  a  fabric  o  utlet  ,  another  by  a  te  le-  phone-answering  concern.  There  was  also  a  deaf-mute  who  repaired  furni-  ture.  Mrs.  Potter  com  plained  that  whenever  she  wan  ted  to  get  in  touch  with  him  she  had  to  send  a  letter.  The  fifth  floor  was  empty,  and  she  s  pent  her  days  trying  to  rent  it.  In  the  basement  were  Potter  fami  ly  relies:  Victoria's  cradle,  Walker's  stilts,  and  the  overflow  of  ant  ique  s  from  the  Po  tters  '  house  in  Dedham.  It  was  an  enormous  room,  cement-floored,  and  the  ceiling,  the  same  dark  gray,  was  visible  through  a  maze  of  pipes.  Dirt  had  collect  e  d  in  airy  bl  ack  heaps  all  over  the  floor.  Mrs.  Potter  a  nd  I  stirred  the  heaps  up  as  we  walked,  and  they  clung  to  the  toes  of  our  shoes  and  attached  themselves  to  our  ankles.  I  moved  four  heavy  cardboard  boxes  at  once,  hugging  them  to  me  like  ungain-  ly  fat  people.  In  the  bottom  box  there  were  little  wads  of  tissue  paper.  I  " b"picked  one  up  and  a  chip  of  glass  fell  back  among  the  others.  &quot;My  prisms,&quot;  Mrs.  Potter  said.  &quot;I  collected  them  for  years.&quot;  &quot;What  for?&quot;  &quot;I  thought  Pd  have  a  chandelier  above  the  dining-room  table  and  they'd  cast  rainbows  on  the  tablecloth.  You  may  have  this  one,&quot;  she  offered,  hold-  ing  it  out  to  me  in  her  narrow  hand.  It  had  a  flaw,  but  I  took  it  and  put  it  in  my  pocket.  She  set  me  to  work  sweepingup  the  piles  of  dirt,  while  she  looked  through  the  boxes  I'd  lifted  down.  The  noise  of  bristles  on  cement  gave  me  gooseflesh.  Mrs.  Potter,  up  to  her  elbows  in  news-  paper,  was  looking  over  various  pieces  of  china  which  cast  their  poor  light  back  on  her  face.  It  was  narrow,  and  her  hair,  growing  stiff  from  her  fore-  head,  had  no  color  at  all.  It  elongated  her  face  so  that  it  was  like  a  rubber  mask  sagging  out  of  shape.  &quot;Ruth,&quot;  she  said  to  me  abruptly.  &quot;I  think  you're  getting  well.  You  seem  to  be  recovering  from  that  young  man.&quot;  &quot;It's  not  just  that.&quot;  &quot;Of  course  not,  but  I  think  it's  time  you  did  something  with  yourself.&quot;  &quot;Like  what?&quot;  &quot;You  might  look  for  a  job.&quot;  &quot;I  hate  jobs.  Haven't  I  explained  to  you,  Mrs.  Potter,  the  way  I  feel  about  A  $ng  sg&quot;     jobs?  When  there  is  something  I  have  to  do  in  a  day,  I  can't  get  up  in  the  morning.  It  spoils  everything  for  me.  Every  day  is  like  the  fifth  straight  day  of  hard  rain.  Please,  I'd  rather  not  think  about  it  now.&quot;  I  remembered  how  the  elevator  man  at  my  last  job  had  called  me  Mary  Mope.  &quot;And  how's  Miss  Mary  Mope  this  morning?&quot;  he  would  ask  as  I  turned  myself  over  to  him  for  the  day's  incarceration.  In  the  evenings  he  would  say,  &quot;Free  at  last  to  run  home  to  her  lover's  arms.&quot;  &quot;Don't,&quot;  I  had  begged  him.  His  words  had  turned  the  remaining  part  of  the  day  into  the  other  half  of  a  vault  that  held  me.  It  shut  tight  around  me  witha  sharp  click.  &quot;I  can't  bear  another  [REDACTED];  I  said  to  Mrs.  Potter  She  was  sitting  on  a  dusty  Louis  XIV  chair,  and  she  gestured  to  me  to  sit  in  its  twin.  She  had  a  thermos  full  of  brandy.  &quot;I  didn't  know  if  it  would  be  warm  down  here,&quot;  she  explained,  offering  me  some  damp  floury  wafers  wrapped  in  tinfoil.  &quot;Let  me  tell  you  a  story.&quot;  &quot;It  isn't  an  allegory,  is  it?  I  can't  bear  allegories.&quot;  She  promised  that  it  wasn't.  &quot;You  may  apply  it  to  your  own  case  as  you  will.       &quot;When  I  was  a  girl-nineteen  or  twenty-I  was  still  living  at  home,  and  very  much  in  love.  I  had  auburn  hair  then.  Can  you  believe  that?  One  eve-  ning  I  was  standing  on  the  fire  escape  of  my  apartment  building  with  Kings,  ley,  the  man  I  was  engaged  to  marry,  and  across  the  street  there  was  a  man  at  the  very  edge  of  the  roof.  &quot;'He's  going  to  jump,  Kingsley  said.  &quot;I  only  laughed,  but  of  course  he  did  jump  or  fall.  He  fell  to  the  ground  faster  than  you  can  imagine.  I  felt  sick  and  dizzy,  as  if  I  were  going  to  fall  from  the  fire  escape  myself.  His  thud  shook  me  terribly.  Later  that  night  I  tried  to  explain  to  Kingsley  how  it  made  me  feel  different.  But  this  time  he  laughed  and  warned  me  against  appropriating  other  people's  tragedies  for  my  own.&quot;  &quot;Is  that  the  end?&quot;  I  asked.  I  was  pleased  with  the  story,  because  it  didn't  apply  to  me.  Nothing  that  applied  seemed  to  help.  &quot;No,  there's  more.  The  man  didn't  die.  It  was  only  the  third  floor.  We  stood  watching,  and  an  ambulance  came  from  the  Holy  Samaritan.  It  was  two  blocks  away  and  there  were  al-  ways  ambulances  screaming  by  our  house.  &quot;I  couldn't  stop  myself  from  think-  " b"ing  about  him.  In  a  few  days  I  went  to  see  him  in  the  ward.  &quot;'I'm  saved  from  myself  now,'  he  said  as  I  came  in.  And  it  was  true.  He  was  so  weighed  down  with  plaster  he  couldn't  move  at  all.  It  encased  two  broken  legs,  some  cracked  ribs,  and  a  dislocated  clavicle.  Even  his  head  was  bound  in  a  space  helmet  of  gauze.  I  couldn't  see  his  face  at  all,  and  since  it  had  been  dusk  when  he  jumped,  I  still  had  no  idea  what  he  looked  like.  &quot;'I  saw  you  fall}  I  said.  'Fall  seemed  more  polite  than  'jump.'  &quot;'I  saw  you  watching  with  your  husband,  he  said.  &quot;'Oh,  that  wasn't  my  husband.  We're  engaged,&quot;  I  said,  and  I  told  him  all  about  Kingsley  and  me,  but  what  I  really  wanted  to  know  was  why  he  had  jumped.  Just  being  with  him  made  me  feel  shaky,  and  I  knew  I  wouldn't  feel  right  until  I  under-     stood.  So  I  kept  going  back  every  cou-  ple  of  days.  There  was  never  anyone  else  visiting  him.  Then  one  day  he  was  in  a  semi-private  room.  &quot;'Are  you  a  relation  of  Mr.  Walk-  er's?&quot;  the  doctor  asked  asI  was  going  in.  &quot;&quot;A  distant  one,'  I  said.  I  wanted  to  hear  what  he  had  to  say.  \xc2\xab'I  think  you  had  better  notify  the  family.  Mr.  Walker  is  a  very  sick  man,'  he  said.  &quot;\xc2\xa9  'You  mean  he's  crazy?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;The  doctor  looked  at  me  as  though  I  were  very  stupid.  'What  I  mean,'  he  said,  'is  that  his  bones  aren't  mending  properly.  We  have  reason  to  believe  that  he  has  a  disease  of  the  bone  mar-  row  and  won't  live  more  than  a  few  months.&quot;  &quot;I  said,  'Oh,  yes,&quot;  to  show  that  it  was  perfectly  obvious  to  me  that  he  would  never  recover.     &quot;I  watched  Mr.  Walker  carefully  that  day.  I  thought  it  might  be  my  last  chance  to  find  out  why  he  had  jumped.  To  tell  you  the  truth,  he  seemed  to  be  getting  better.  In  fact,  out  of  the  blue,  he  asked  me  to  marry  him.  He  knew  thatI  was  engaged,  but  Kingsley  was  sailing  to  England  with  his  family  just  then.  I'd  grown  very  fond  of  Mr.  Walker,  so  I  agreed.  It  was  the  sim-  plest  way  to  make  everyone  happy.  I  felt  then  as  if  my  mind  were  in  order  again.  That's  the  end  of  the  story.&quot;  &quot;But  it  isn't.  What  happened?&quot;  &quot;Mr.  Walker  did  die.  From  the  semi-private  they  moved  him  to  a  pri-  vate  room.  At  last  he  was  out  of  his  casts,  and  he  held  my  hand.  His  hand  was  thinner  and  whiter  than  my  own.  He  left  me  his  mother's  jewels,  and  a  year  later,  when  I  married  Walker  and  Victoria's  father,  I  named  my  son  for  him.&quot;  &quot;You  married  Kingsley?&quot;  &quot;No,  George  Potter.  Kingsley  took  the  slow  boat  to  England.&quot;  We'd  finished  the  crackers,  but  there  was  still  brandy  in  the  thermos.  The  box  at  my  feet  was  books.  &quot;If  there's  anything  you'd  like,  take  it.  Walker  and  Victoria  weren't  inter-  ested.&quot;  There  was  a  collection  of  poetry  at  the  top,  and  I  chose  that.  &quot;Did  the  story  help?&quot;  Mrs.  Potter  asked.  &quot;I  don't  see  how  you  could  have  done  it.&quot;  &quot;I  could  do  anything  then.&quot;  She  sat  quietly,  with  her  eyes  almost  closed,  and  I  looked  through  the  book.  There  was  a  poem  that  reminded  me  of  the  one  the  wide-seeing  blue-eyed  woman  had  read  at  Miss  Thorndyke's:  I  know  a  green  grass  path  that  leaves  the  field,  And,  like  a  running  river,  winds  along  ...  I  imagined  Mrs.  Potter  young,  with  her  auburn  hair  and  her  masklike  face  stretched  back  to  prettiness,  I  watched  her  walk  partway  down  a  long,  dark  hall,  but  she  stopped  and  went  through  the  first  door  she  came  to.  From  there  she  followed  the  path  until,  squinting,  I  lost  sight  of  her. "