 b"THERE  are  twenty-two  of  us  living  at  Stanley  Morgan's.  He  has  an  old  half-timbered  mansion  on  the  country-club  grounds,  and  we  all  share  the  taxes  and  fuel  bills,  take  turns  with  the  cooking  and  cleaning.  We  make  our  own  beds  and  do  our  own  laundry.  There  are  no  women.  It  is  possible,  in  fact,  that  we  no  longer  know  how  to  live  with  women.  That  is  what  our  wives  are  saying  now,  and  they  also  say  they  will  see  to  it  we  never  have  women  again.  (Just  talk,  of  course,  but  it  does  make  it  difficult  for  us  to  get  dates.)  The  truth  is,  our  wives  weren't  all  that  good  at  living  with  us,  either.  In  my  own  case,  Sally  claims  that  she  kicked  me  out,  but  I'm  pretty  sure  that  I  left  without  being  asked.  It's  hard  to  remember,  so  much  has  changed.  I  do  know  that  we  first  talked  about  splitting  up  one  night  during  a  rerun  of  a  &quot;Rockford  Files&quot;  we  had  both  seen  before,  and  at  the  time  we  both  agreed  it  was  the  right  thing-one  of  us  clearly  had  to  leave.  We  also  thought  we  were  making  a  big  mistake.  I  don't  know  about  Sally,  but  I  still  feel  the  same  way.  The  plan  is  for  us  husbands  to  stay  here  at  Stanley's  until  either  we  can  get  back  together  with  our  old  wives  or  we  find  new  ones,  and  in  the  mean-  time  we  try  to  stay  busy.  On  clear  autumn  Saturdays,  for  example,  we  like  to  get  up  early,  put  on  khakis,  flannel  shirts,  down  vests,  and  golf  visors,  and  go  out  and  chop  wood.  There  is  no  rule  about  this-it's  just  the  way  husbands  are.  They  like  to  do  things.  So  we  chop  wood-a  lot  of  wood.  Even  at  night  you  can  sometimes  hear  the  thunk-thunk  of  axes  ringing  across  the  property.  We  rake  leaves  and  mow  the  lawns.  We  polish  our  tassel  loaf-  ers  and  our  cowboy  boots.  We  trim  our  mustaches.  We  care  for  the  dogs.  We  pump  iron  and  shoot  skeet.  We  patrol  the  grounds.  We  play  poker  and  pool.  We  work  on  our  cars  in  what  used  to  be  the  carriage  house,  and  in  the  workshop  in  the  basement  we  tinker  with  our  golf  clubs:  wrap  the  grips,  burnish  the  woods,  forge  new  heads  for  the  irons.  We  read  and  we  watch  TV  and  we  make  bets.  We  think  a  lot  about  sex.  Naturally,  we  are  happier  at  some  times  than  at  others.  Today  began  mi-  raculously,  for  example,  with  twenty-  two  clock  radios  going  off  simultaneous-  ly-all  tuned  to  WQXR  playing  the  &quot;Trumpet  Voluntary.&quot;  Then  there  was  the  sound,  plaintive  yet  stirring,  of  twenty-two  electric  razors  working  in  concert.  The  whole  house  seemed  to  sing  of  energy  and  promise,  and  it  made  us  feel  powerful  and  in  command  of  our  destinies.  The  lines  for  the  show-  ers-two  upstairs,  one  down-moved  briskly  and  efficiently,  and  steam  bil-  lowed  from  under  the  doors  in  cheerful  clouds.  Nobody  spoiled  things  by  leaving  his  towel  on  the  floor.  There  was  a  mas-  culine,  crackling  sound  as  twenty-two  oxford-cloth  shirts,  perfectly  pressed,  were  unwrapped  from  their  cardboards  and  vigorously  shaken  loose;  then  a  pleasant  rustle,  almost  a  whisper,  as  twenty-two  silk  foulards  sailed  through  the  air  before  being  yanked  tight  in  a  Windsor.  At  breakfast  we  took  turns  with  our  two  copiesof  the  Times,  dividing  up  the  sections  and  reading  only  one  col-  umn  at  a  time  before  passing  a  section  on,  and  we  talked  about  Krugerrands,  oil  shale,  and  the  new  government  in  496e646961,  We  discussed  the  movie  &quot;Break-  ing  Away,&quot;  which  several  of  us  had  seen  the  night  before,  and  the  effects  of  the  expansion  draft  on  the  upcoming  N.H.L.  season.  We  planned  nextweek's  menus-Hugo  Kendall  said  he  would  like  to  see  less  wok-fried  stuff  and  more  fresh  fruits  and  vegetables-and  de-  bated  once  again  whether  the  new  drapes  for  the  dining  room  should  be  pink  or  rose.  We  also  talked  about  our  own  Reg  Livingston,  who  ten  days  ago  went  to  the  Harvard-Columbia  game  with  a  girl  who  said  she  used  to  go  out  with  Gordon  Liddy.  Reg  isn't  back  yet,  and  with  each  passing  day  our  faith  grows  greater  that  he  and  the  girl  are  still  together  somewhere,  which  means  that  we  may  know  how  to  live  with  women  after  all.  &quot;Way  to  go,  Reggie  boy!&quot;  someone  shouted  while  we  waited  for  seconds  on  the  oatmeal.  But  by  this  evening  the  mood  had  changed,  and  the  house  was  heavy  with  an  air  oftiredness  and  sadness.  The  phone  rang  and  rang,  and  no  one  an-  swered.  Upstairs,  a  door  slammed,  then    another.  In  the  library  Hugo  was  wring-  ing  his  hands  and  getting  ready  to  write  an  alimony  check,.  Ted  Gree-  nough  was  snatching  up  magazines  two  at  a  time  and  flipping  through  the  pages  of  both  at  once.  Sam  Roth-  child  paced  back  and  forth  in  the  hall,  and  there  was  a  double  thud  from  the  laundry  room  as  Clem  [REDACTED]  hurled  his  wet  socks  at  the  wall.  Long  before  six,  we  began  to  line  up  single  file  in  the  drawing  room,  listening  forthe  clink  of  bottles,  the  tinkle  of  ice  against  glass  which  means  that  Stanley-it's  his  turn  this  week-is  getting  ready  to  wheel  in  the  grog  cart.  (We  drink  too  much,  and  weknow  it.  The  truth  is,  we  like  to  drink  too  much.)  I  am  at  a  loss  to  account  for  our  melancholy,  unless,  as  Clem  says,  the  trouble  nowadays  is  that  once  husbands  have  sired  children  they  serve  no  pur-  pose  anymore.  We  will  soon  be  extinct,  he  says,  and  our  depressions  are  mere-  ly  nature's  way  of  preparing  us.  He  says  that  other  outmoded  species,  such  as  the  buffalo,  are  depressed  all  the  time.  I  think  he  has  a  point.  Already,  we  have  heard,  men  who  havebeen  married  are  so  rare  in  certain  parts  of  [REDACTED]  that  they  have  been  given  special  condominiums  to  livein,  rent-  free,  where  they  are  watched  over  by  kind  and  attentive  graduate  students,  who  then  write  papers  and  dissertations  about  them.  And  Hugo  swears  he  read  in  Newsweek  the  other  day  that  in  some  of  the  Scandinavian  countries  former  husbands  are  now  required  to  wear  government-issue  sports  jackets  and  neckties,  and  that  they  are  no  longer  allowed  to  vote,  own  property,  write  letters  to  the  editor,  or  drive  a  motor  vehicle  after  dark.  Of  course,  there  isn't  all  that  much  need  for  wives  anymore,  either,  but  as  far  as  I  can  tell  they  are  having  much  less  trouble  than  we  are  adjusting  to  these  new  condi-  tions.  In  fact,  they  seem  to  thrive  without  us.  All  I  know  for  sure  is  that  our  worst  time  is  always  late  Sunday  afternoon,  right  after  the  N.F.L.  Game  of  the  Week;  we  haveeven  had  to  close  the  gun  room  during  those  hours,  because  some  of  the  men  were  spending  too  much  time  in  there,  fondling  the  stocks  and  holding  the  barrels  up  to  the  light.  So  now,  to  cheer  ourselves  up,  we  have  devised  a  kind  of  Sunday-night  ritual.  First,  a  hearty  supper  of  mutton,  on-  ions,  gravy,  and  greens.  Schooners  of  ale.  Loaves  of  crusty  bread  baked  in  pornographic  shapes.  While  the  plates  are  being  cleared,  we  arm-wrestle,  tell  jokes,  and  pass  around  snapshots  of  our  families.  Then  there  is  some  " b"entertainment-a  film  occasionally,  or  a  skit  put  on  bya  couple  of  the  fellows,  or  may-  be  just  a  talk  on  some  subject  of  interest.  (Last  week,  for  in-  stance,  Roger  Whitney  gave  a  very  nice  dem-  onstration  of  how  in  an  emergency  one  can  make  a  fairly  dead-  ly  weapon  from  the  American  Express  card.)  We  end  with  a  sing:  college  songs,  &quot;John  Jacob  Jingle-  heimer  Smith,&quot;  &quot;Drink  It  Down,  You  Zulu  Warrior&quot;-it  varies,  but  the  last  is  always  &quot;The  Whiffenpoof  Song.&quot;  It's  our  anthem,  you  might  say,  and  though  we're  deeply  embarrassed  by  it-it's  so  corny  and  predict-  able-we're  unable  to  give  it  up.  Nothing  else  helps  as  much.  We  do  it  lentamente,  but  for-  tissimo  on  the  chorus,  making  the  &quot;baa,  baa,  baa''s  echo  through  the  halls.  OMEBODY  has  complained  about  us  to  the  country  club  and  also  to  the  village  council.  Maybe  it  was  one  of  the  wives.  The  main  issue  is  about  too  many  unrelated  people  living  under  one  roof,  but  there  is  also  something  about  mud  slides  resulting  from  insufficient  tree  cover.  There  was  a  public  hearing  at  the  council  meet-  ing  on  Tuesday  night,  which  we  all  attended  asa  group.  Our  wives  did,  too-many  of  them  with  their  new  boyfriends.  They  sat  on  one  side  of  the  village  hall,  and  we  sat  on  the  other  and  tried  not  to  look  across.  We  didn't  succeed,  of  course-for  most  of  us  it  was  the  first  time  we  had  seen  our  wives  in  months,  and  our  curiosity  was  too  great-but  neither  did  they,  and  I  noticed  that  in  almost  every  case  of  actual  eye  contact  between  husband  and  wife  it  was  the  wife  who  turned  away  first.  At  one  point  Stanley  stood  up  and  said,  &quot;Unrelated?  Unrelated  nothing.  We're  all  brothers!&quot;  It  was  a  deeply  moving  moment,  marred  only  by  a  few  middle-aged  ladies  who  stood  at  the  back  making  snoring  noises  and  pre-  tending  to  fall  asleep  with  boredom.  I  couldn't  help  noticing  that  even  a  few  of  the  boyfriends  were  swallowing  hard  and  blinking.  Stanley  went  on  to  make  a  countercomplaint  against  the  carloads  of  women  who  have  taken  to  driving  around  our  property  at  night,  shrieking  in  their  high,  squeaky  voices  and  throw-  ing  empty  Heineken  bottles  and  toi-  let  paper  into  the  privet  hedge.  He  said  that  he  didn't  want  to  accuse  anyone  but  that  he  thought  the  parties  respon-  sible  were  sitting  right  here  in  the  hall,  and  he  pointed  his  finger  across  the  aisle.  There  was  a  lot  of  shouting  and  name-calling  then.  Our  wives  said  they  didn't  have  fime  to  drive  around  throwing  things-they  aretoo  busy  publishing  their  novels  and  composing  their  symphonies  and  collecting  awards  for  their  films.  Several  of  them  lost  control  completely  andhad  to  be  dragged  out  by  their  boyfriends  until  they  could  cool  off  a  little.  I  haven't  told  anybody,  but  it  gets  me  down  sometimes-men  and  women  liv-  ing  like  this-and  I  wonder  where  it  will  all  end.  Last  summer,  I  remember,  our  wives  used  to  gather  once  in  a  while  at  Tom  and  Ella  Putney's  old  house,  which  is  just  across  the  eighteenth  fair-  way  from  Stanley's,  and  we  would  see  the  smoky  orange  flames  of  their  hiba-  chis  and  hear  their  drunken  giggles  late  into  the  night.  In  a  way  it  was  reassuring-just  knowing  they  were  close  by.  But  they  haven't  been  there  for  quite  some  time,  and  we  hear  that  they  only  drink  Perrier  water  now  and  eat  mostly  salads  and  bean  sprouts.  They  are  also  beginning  to  break  par  regu-  larly,  according  to  the  pro,  and  they  are  demanding  places  on  the  Men's  Ladder.  I  have  heard  that  in  New  York  and  out  in  the  Hamptons  other  men  " b"are  moving  in  together.  In  the  South-  west,  apparently,  thereare  many  large  groups  of  ex-husbands  living  in  tents  along  the  highways,  getting  along  as  best  they  can  by  picking  vegetables  and  washing  windshields.  There  are  also  reports  of  sizable  numbers  of  men  crammed  into  [REDACTED]  Whalers  travel-  ling  up  and  down  the  New  England  coast  looking  for  an  island  or  a  major  beach  where  they  can  be  alone.  I  can't  help  thinking  about  those  guys,  and  I  keep  thinking,  too,  of  how  Sally  looked  the  other  night  walking  out  of  the  vil-  lage  hall.  She  was  with  a  tall,  rugged-  looking  man,  and  they  were  wearing  matching  Coors  T-shirts,  with  match-  ing  wraparound  reflecting  sunglasses  up  on  their  foreheads.  They  each  had  a  hand  in  the  back  pocket  of  the  other's  jeans.  They  seemed  tough  and  excit-  ing,  like  the  kind  of  people  who  would  check  into  a  motel  room  at  lunchtime.  Watching  them,  I  didn't  feel  jealous,  exactly.  I  just  felt  a  little  sorry-about  everything,  but  most  of  all  sorry  for  myself.  I  also  felt  a  kind  of  longing.  No  one  has  ever  puther  hand  in  my  jeans  pocket-we  didn't  know  about  that  when  I  was  going  out-and  I'm  beginning  to  wonder  now  whether  anyone  ever  will.  OUR  other  ritual  night,  besides  Sunday,  is  Thursday.  We  try  to  be  more  formal  then-black  tie  is  required;  a  couple  of  the  men  appear  in  kilts-and  also  more  solemn.  We  begin  with  a  reading-usually  from  &quot;Madame  Bovary,&quot;  a  book  we  are  try-  ing  to  understand  better  because  our  wives  always  seemed  to  be  reading  it-and  then  there  is  a  period  of  silent  meditation.  Next  the  stirrup  cup  is  filled  and  passed  clockwise  around  the  table,  and  as  it  comes  to  each  man  he  drinks  deeply.  Then  he  rises  and  tells  a  story,  or  shares  something  he  has  read  or  learned,  offers  some  advice.  Tonight,  for  example,  Andrew  Payne  began  by  saying  that  he  had  just  learned  that  his  wife  has  taken  a  sixth-  former  from  Andover  as  her  lover  and  has  been  driving  fourteen  hundred  miles  a  week  just  to  see  him  between  classes.  He  blames  it  on  some  damned  French  movie  she  saw  recently.  An-  drew  said  he  wasn't  bothered  by  his  wife's  sleeping  with  the  boy,  but  he's  upset  because  they  are  said  to  have  posed  nude  for  the  senior  classbook.  Calvin  Thorne  then  stood  up  and  said  that  before  he  got  married  he  had  slept  with  five  hundred  and  thirty-two  women,  and  he  never  needed  pictures,  because  he  remembered  them  all.  He  recalled,  in  particularly  poignant  detail,  a  weekend  he  once  spent  in  Phoenix with  the  four-hundred-and-tenth,  2a  practical  nurse  named  Wanda.  Tom  Putney  said  that  before  he  mar-  ried  he  had  slept  with  five  hundred  and  thirty-three  women-all  lookers,  with  big  maracas-and  that  the  sexual  satis-  faction  of  either  party  had  never  been  a  problem.  If  any  of  these  women  were  complaining  now,  he  said,  they  were  just  damn  liars.  Ned  Franklin  said  that  that  was  all  very  well,  but  maybe  sex  wasn't  as  im-  portant  as  we  thought.  His  wife  now  lives  with  an  eighty-seven-year-old  con-  cert  pianist,  and  she  has  told  him  that  instead  of  &quot;wasting&quot;  themselves  in  the  bedroom  they  much  prefer  to  climb  into  twin  sleeping  bags  by  the  fire  and  eat  fried  clams  from  the  same  takeout  con-  tainer.  They  read  aloud  from  a  book  of  Chopin's  letters,  and  then  he  pretends  to  be  Chopin  and  she  pretends  to  be  George  Sand,  and  in  between  bites  of  fried  clam  they  act  out  scenes  of  tem-  pestuous  argument  and  tender  recon-  ciliation.  She  says  that  Ned  never  ful-  filled  her  this  way.  Harry  Taft  stood  up  then  and  said  that  he  had  been  trying  to  pinpoint  the  exact  moment  when  his  marriage  stopped  working,  and  that  as  far  as  he  could  tell  it  was  about  nine  o'clock  on  a  Wednesday  evening,  in  a  Chinese  res-  taurant.  &quot;She  ordered  bird's-nest  soup,  moo-shu  pork,  and   sweet-and-sour  shrimp,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  ordered  the  same.  I  always  ordered  whatever  she  ordered.  She  excused  herself  and  went  to  the  ladies',  and  when  she  came  back  she  was  crying  and  I  knew  at  once  that  some-  " b"thing  had  changed.  She  just  didn't  look  the  same,  and  when  I  said  'Mandy?'  she  stared  at  me  for  a  moment  and  then  shook  her  head  and  walked  away.&quot;  Sam  Rothchild  said  that  before  he  married  he  had  been  to  Chinese  restau-  rants  with  well  over  a  thousand  women,  and  that  he  had  never  eaten  the  same  thing  twice.  I  hadn't  planned  to,  but  when  it  came  my  turn  I  told  about  the  dream  I  had  the  night  before.  I've  had  it  several  times  lately,  and  it's  always  the  same.  I'm  at  home-in  my  old  house,  that  is-and  everything  begins  to  happen  in  reverse.  The  kids  grow  younger;  tears  slip  up  Sally's  cheeks  and  behind  her  eyes;  words  slide  back  into  my  mouth  with  the  sound  of  a  tape  being  rewound.  Wineglasses  empty  and  refill  them-  selves;  the  wallpaper  rolls  up  like  a  window  shade,  revealing  new  but  faded  patterns  underneath;  pieces  of  crock-  ery  leap  up  from  the  floor  and,  glanc-  ing  off  my  hand,  reassemble  themselves  on  the  table.  Elizabeth,  our  fat  old  Siamese,  turns  into  a  kitten,  and  doz-  ens  of  hamsters  and  gerbils  appear  and  then  disappear,  one  after  another,  in  the  Habitrail  cage  on  the  porch.  Sally's  hair  uncurls  itself,  grows  long,  and  changes  from  brown  to  blond  and  back  to  brown  again.  The  living-room  end  tables  vanish;  theplants  shrink  in  their  pots.  There  is  the  time  I  broke  my  leg  skiing  at  Killington,  only  now  it  begins  with  a  strangely  beautiful  ballet-like  scene,  as  I  leap  uphill  in  a  series  of  entrechats  and  arabesques,  with  the  snow  unscattering  and  rearranging  it self  into  glistening  smoothness,  and  it  ends  with  me  zooming  elegantly  back-  ward  up  the  slope.  And  then  there  is  the  incident  of  the  overheard  phone  conversation:  Sally  looks  hurt  and  an-  gry  at  first,  but  when  she  puts  down  the  receiver  she  is  smiling  again,  as  if  it  has  cheered  her  up  no  end  to  know  that  I  am  on  the  extension  telling  Heather  Kendall  how  great  she  looks  in  tennis  shorts.  It  goes  on  like  this  fora  while,  and  finally  there  comes  a  mo-  ment  when  Sally  and  I  are  alone.  The  kids  aren't  even  born  yet,  and  we're  not  in  our  own  house  anymore.  We're  sit-  ting  in  her  parents'  living  room.  The  silence  is  so  embarrassing  that  I  feel  I  have  to  say  something-anything.  I  open  my  mouth,  meaning  (I'm  sure  of  this)  to  ask  why  there  have  never  been  any  outstanding  female  architects,  but  what  comes  out  every  time  is  &quot;Me  mar-  ry  you  will,  Sally?&quot;  I  said  I  wasn't  sure  if  this  dream  had  any  significance,  but  maybe  it  meant  our  wives  were  going  to  take  us  back.  The  others  said  they  didn't  know,  and,  since  everyone  felt  so  low,  we  ended  with  another  chorus  of  &quot;Whiffenpoof.&quot;  We  couldn't  help  ourselves.  AD  news:  Reg  is  back.  He  was  dropped  off  last  night  in  a  taxi  driven  by  a  woman,  and  he  was  wear-  ing  only  his  sneakers  and  an  Eliot  House  T-shirt.  He  was  quite  run  down  physically,  and  at  first  he  seemed  to  have  difficulty  speaking.  All  he  would  say  was  that  he  was  detained  in  an  unfurnished  room  where  a  group  of  women  made  him  read  aloud  to  them  from  Henry  Miller.:  It  was  heart-  breaking  to  see  him  like  this-so  frail  and  bewildered.  We  wrapped  him  in  blankets  and  fed  him  some  broth,  and  after  a  while  he  seemed  to  relax  a  little,  but  then  toward  morning  he  be-  came  feverish,  and  even  delirious.  He  spoke  a  few  snatches  of  French  and  then  began  to  whisper  in  English:  &quot;God,  just  look  at  that  sea-have  you  ever  seen  anything  so  blue?  Smell  that  air!  Oh,  darling,  have  you  ever  been  this  happy?&quot;  It  was  Stanley  who  final-  ly  figured  it  out:  poor  Reg  thinks  he  is  on  a  honeymoon  in  Antibes.  More  mud  slides,  grog  cart  late.  Morale  very  low.  E  miss  our  children,  and  we  worry  what  will  become  of  them,  brought  up  among  women  so  much.  Who  will  teach  them  about  the  vigorish,  tax-exempt  municipals,  tying  the  bowline,  how  to  hit  the  long  irons  from  a  downhill  lie?  Today,  as  a  kind  of  spirit-booster,  " b"we  chartered  a  bus  and  took  our  kids  on  an  outing  to  Shepherd  Lake,  and  though  everything  didn't  go  quite  as  we  planned,  I  still  think  it  was  a  good  idea.  I  think  we  all  feel  better.  Per-  haps  the  only  real  mistake  was  letting  the  older  kids  bring  along  their  sound  equipment  and  videotape  cameras.  They  said  they  wanted  to  make  a  documentary,  which  seemed  fine,  but  then  everyone-fathers  and  children  alike-became  self-conscious  and  started  tryingtoo  hard.  There  were  forced  smiles,  too  many  paternal  hands  laid  tenderly  on  young  shoulders.  The  kids  said  &quot;Dad&quot;  a  lot-even  those  who  had  used  &quot;Pa&quot;  before-and  we  over-  did  it  with  &quot;son&quot;  and  &quot;sport,&quot;  &quot;prin-  cess&quot;  and  &quot;lambchop.&quot;  Everyone  kept  saving,  &quot;This  is  going  to  be  a  great  day,  huh?&quot;  The  tension  was  just  too  much  for  the  younger  children,  and  a  few  of  them  even  burst  into  tears.  No  one  ate  enough  lunch-in  retrospect,  I  think  that  might  have  made  a  difference- and  it  would  have  helped,  especially  in  Ben  [REDACTED]'s  case,  if  someone  had  thought  to  bring  along  some  Valium.  I  still  can't  get  over  the  way  he  splashed  and  bellowed  and  hurled  himself  around  in  the  water.  &quot;Come  on,  Pat-  ty!&quot;  I  heard  him  shout  at  his  little  girl,  who  was  squatting,  terrified,  at  the  edge  of  the  sand,  with  the  water  just  lapping  the  seat  of  her  swimsuit.  &quot;Ride  on  my  shoulders!  Dive  from  my  back!  Swim  through  my  legs!  You're  not  having  enough  fun.&quot;  It  took  a  long  time  to  round  every-  body  up  at  the  end  of  the  day.  Sev-  eral  of  the  kids  had  fallen  asleep  under  the  pine  boughs,  and  others  had  wan-  dered  back  to  the  parking  lot  and  were  waiting  patiently  by  the  bus,  playing  their  tape  decks  or  writing  in  their  journals.  Everyone  was  quiet  on  the  way  home  (we  were  all  tired,  I  think,  and  maybe  a  little  let  down),  but  Hugo  and  Ben  and  a  couple  of  the  other  fathers  couldn't  leave  it  alone.  They  kept  rehashing  things  with  their  children-talking  about  how  great  the  outing  had  been.  They  meant  well,  of  course-they  just  wanted  so  badly  forthe  day  to  be  a  success  that  they  couldn't  stand  for  it  to  end  on  a  less-than-perfect  note-  but  the  kids  somehow  took  this  the  wrong  way.  They  put  down  their  comic  books  and  began  shouting  at  us.  &quot;Losers!&quot;  they  yelled.  &quot;Fools!  Jerks!  Wimps!  Nerds!&quot;  Harry  Taft's  daugh-  ter  Kim  accused  him  of  treating  her  the  way  he  had  always  treated  her  mother.  &quot;And  that  goes  for  all  the  rest  of  you,&quot;  she  added  unreasonably.  Timmy  Rothchild  said,  &quot;You  always  have  to  make  everything  intoa  big  deal!  Whatever  happens,  it's  never  enough.&quot;  And  then  it  came  out  that  most  of  the  kids  hadn't  wanted  to  go  to  the  lake  in  the  first  place.  It  was  &quot;too  predictable,&quot;  apparently.  They  would  have  preferred  a  museum,  or  a  walking  tour  of  the  inner  city.  I  should  add  that  my  own  two  boys  did  not  join  in  all  this,  or  not  very  much.  I  wouldn't  say  they  had  a  great  time,  but  we  tried  to  make  each  other  hap-  py.  They  didn't  jump  or  flinch  away  when  I  touched  them  once  in  a  while-  rubbed  their  heads  or  patted  their  backs,  I  mean;  they  draw  the  line  at  hug-  ging-and  in  return  I  gave  them  my  loose  change  and  promised  to  take  them  to  an  R-rated  movie  next  week.  It  wasn't  the  way  it  used  to  be,  of  course-  it  wasn't  quite  like  when  my  father  used  to  take  me  out  on  the  Hinckley  andblow  cigar  smoke  in  my  ear-but  in  the  end  I  don't  think  it  was  all  that  different,  ei-  ther.  There  were  moments  that  seemed  almost  ordinary.  CLEM  ABBOTT  and  I  were  reminisc-  ing  today  about  our  bachelor  days.  &quot;Remember  that  time  we  took  a  suite  at  the  Waldorf  and  invited  up  a  couple  of  cocktail  waitresses?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  think  it  was  the  Biltmore,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Right-the  Biltmore.  And  you  got  so  carried  away  you  threw  your  pants  out  the  window  and  they  landed  on  a  ledge  halfway  down  .  ..&quot;  &quot;How  could  I  forget?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;And  then  when  I  realizedthat  I  had  thrown  out  my  wallet,  too,  I  had  to  climb  down  the  side  of  the  building  on  a  rope  made  out  of  bedsheets.  It  was  terrific!&quot;  &quot;No,  I  don'tthink  so,&quot;  Clem  said.  &quot;I  think  you  made  one  of  the  girls  go  down  on  the  fire  escape.&quot;  \xc2\xabThat's  right.  And  meantime  you  were  stuffing  all  the  towels  in  your  attach\xc3\xa9  case.&quot;  &quot;Are  you  sure?&quot;  Clem  said.  &quot;I  think  maybe  you've  got  it  mixed  up  with  the  time  we  sneaked  into  the  " b"women's  dressing  room  at  Bailey's  Beach.&quot;  He  sighed.  &quot;Oh,  Jesus,  we  were  happy  in  thosedays,  weren't  we?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  we  were,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Weren't  we?&quot;  &quot;Well,  almost  happy,&quot;  Clem  said.  &quot;Not  really  happy.  In  a  fairly  good  mood  once  in  a  while,  but  I  wouldn't  say  happy.&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  guess  we  really  weren't  very  happy  at  all.&quot;  The  truth  is,  we  were  miserable  as  bachelors,  or  at  least  I  was,  and  we  couldn't  wait  to  get  married.  That  was  all  we  thought  about.  Looking  back  now,  in  fact,  I  think  that  in  one  way  or  another  I  have  felt  like  a  husband  all  my  life.  Mv  first  conscious  memory  is  of  pretending,  when  I  was  about  four  or  five,  to  be  married  to  our  cleaning  lady.  (Her  name  was  Mrs.  Haggerty,  and  I  used  to  wheel  the  vacuum  around  behind  her  and  wish  we  could  have  a  place  of  our  own  to  keep  tidy.)  A  year  or  two  later,  I  became  deeply  attached  to  one  of  the  women  who  played  bridge  with  my  mother,  and  I  insisted  on  washing  her  ashtray  after  she  left.  Her  ciga-  rette  ends  had  an  unmistakable  red  smudge  at  the  tip,  which  seemed  to  me  profoundly  touching  and  intimate.  I  wanted  to  be  the  one  who  lighted  her  Chesterfields.  I  don't  know  where  these  matri-  monial  fantasies  came  from,  unless  it  was  from  those  rare  evenings  when  my  father  and  mother  would  dress  in  evening  clothes  for  some  party  they  were  going  to  and  walk  downstairs  together,  arm  in  arm,  while  my  grand-  mother,  who  was  living  with  us  then,  would  come  to  the  foot  of  the  stairs  and  cry  a  little.  Also,  I  was  an  only  child,  and  perhaps  that  contributed,  too.  All  I  know  is  that  when  I  was  a  boy,  getting  married  seemed  to  me  more  than  just  something  people  did-  it  was  why  we  were  growing  up  in  the  first  place.  It  was  noble  and  beau-  tiful  and  romantic,  and  it  meant  you  could  sleep  without  pajamas,  if  you  felt  like  it,  and  have  a  television  in  your  bedroom.  I  couldn't  ima  gine  anything  more  wonderful,  and,  to  be  honest,  I  still  can't.  ORALE  is  still  low-none  of  the  kids  wrote  thank-you  notes-  but,  as  Stanley  says,  we  are  beginning  to  &quot;get  in  touch  with  our  feelings.&quot;  We  cry  a  lot  now.  Crying  does  not  come  naturally  to  us,  and  our  initial  efforts  produced  only  dry,  self-con-  scious  whimpers.  But  we  have  worked  on  our  technique,  and  now  we  can  simper,  sniffie,  and  sob.  We  can  pule.  We  can  wail.  We  can  heave  and  honk  and  blubber.  On  a  good  night,  after  a  couple  of  drinks  to  loosen  things  up,  we  can  cry  like  babies.  Each  in  our  own  room,  we  bawl  until  we  are  out  of  breath,  then  suck  in  air  with  long  wheezing  sobs  and  force  it  out  again  in  great  extended  howls.  The  sound  of  all  twenty-two  of  us  carrying  on  this  way  is  so  strange  and  so  moving  that  it  makes  us  cry  even  more,  and  " b"we  can  keep  it  up  for  hours,  until  our  pillows  are  damp  and  clammy.  Often  we  cry  ourselves  to  sleep.  \xe2\x80\x98N?  HILE  we  were  chopping  wood  the  other  day,  Ted  Greenough  asked  me  if  I  still  thought  our  wives  were  going  to  take  us  back.  I  said  that  I  didn't  know  but  that  I  thought  there  was  probably  a  better  chance  of  that  than  of  our  finding  new  ones.  (Reg  still  thinks  he's  in  the  South  of  [REDACTED].)  Ted  said  that  he  thought  our  wives  no  longer  needed  us.  He  has  seen  groups  of  them  taking  the  train  into  the  city  for  their  ballet  lessons  and  their  classes  at  law  school,  and  apparently  they  look  younger  and  more  beautiful  than  he  remembered.  &quot;They  all  have  short,  feathery  haircuts  [REDACTED];  he  told  me.  &quot;And  they  walk  in  that  kind  of  out-  of-it,  bowlegged  way  dancers  have.  You  almost  wouldn't  know  them  any-  more,  they're  so  thin  and  delicate.  They're  practically  radiant-like  stars.&quot;  I  said  that  I  just  didn't  know,  which     is  true.  Lately  I  have  been  driving  around  the  village  by  myself,  and  I  have  seen  some  things,  too.  Last  Sunday  morning,  for  example,  I  saw  Heather  Kendall  parked  behind  the  First  Pres-  byterian  Church  and  drinking  gin  from  a  child's  juice  glass.  I  often  see  Muffic  Greenough  sitting  by  herself  in  the  luncheonette  by  the  station,  chain-  smoking  and  endlessly  stacking  and  re-  stacking  her  change.  And  a  couple  of  days  ago,  when  I  was  in  the  Grand  Union  to  pick  up  eleven  pounds  of  brisket,  I  happened  upon  Ella  Putney  in  the  detergent  section.  She  was  rip-  ping  open  box  after  box  of  Oxydol  and  trying  to  dump  the  contents  into  her  purse.  When  I  go  by  my  old  house  now,  I  see  the  kids'  bikes  dented  and  rusting  in  the  driveway.  The  station  wagon  is  parked  halfway  up  the  lawn,  and  it  is  so  dusty  that  someone  has  finger-writ-  ten  &quot;WASH  ME&quot;  across  the  rear  win-  dow.  There  are  dandelions  everywhere,  the  forsythia  needs  to  be  pruned,  and  it  looks  as  if  somebody  has  set  fire  to  part  of  the  garage.  Once,  late  at  night,  I  came  upon  a  woman  walking  alone  by  the  side  of  the  road.  From  the  back,  shoulders  hunched,  hands  deep  in  her  trenchcoat  pockets,  she  looked  just  like  Sally,  or  the  way  I  remember  Sally.  She  had  the  same  hesitant  step,  the  same  way  of  shaking  her  head  slowly  from  side  to  side.  She  seemed  so  sad  that  I  slowed  down  to  of-  fer  hera  lift,  but  when  I  pulled  over  to  the  shoulder  she  turned  and  ran  into  the  woods.  I  say  it  was  Sally,  though  I  think  now  that  it  may  have  been  Stanley's  wife,  Faye.  It  doesn't  really  matter  who  it  was.  I  waited  there  for  a  while,  with  the  engine  off  but  the  lights  on,  in  case  she  changed  her  mind,  and  then  I  went  home.  Since  then,  I  have  seen  a  lot  of  women  out  walking  by  themselves.  I  think  this  must  be  something  they  like  to  do  at  the  end  of  the  day,  when  the  dishes  are  put  away  and  the  kids  are  final-  ly  in  bed  and  they  can  have  a  moment  of  their  own  be-  fore  they  get  to  work  on  their  law  briefs  or  their  ballet  exercises.  They  don't  seem  to  have  any  destination-they  just  walk.  I've  seen  them  linger  sometimes  in  the  shadows  outside  a  house  where  the  lights  are  on,  as  if  waiting  to  be  in-  vited  in,  but  at  the  slightest  sound-  the  clatter  of  a  screen  door,  the  hum  of  a  swimming-pool  filter  turning  it-  self  on-they  turn  and  scurry  away.  If  a  car  draws  near,  they  startle  and  freeze,  or  else  dive  into  the  brush,  and  in  the  glare  of  the  headlights  their  faces  seem  pale  and  drawn.  Their  eyes  widen,  and  their  breath  comes  quickly.  They  look  afraid  and  uncertain  then,  and  lovely  in  their  loneliness.  They  look  more  the  way  they  used  to. "