 b"THERE  was  a  swift,  almost  liquid  beauty  to  the  Neva  River  yes-  terday,  as  you  looked  at  it  from  the  seedy  little  bench  on  the  Prospekt  Parkway  in  Leningrad,  but  Ivan  and  Igor  and  two  to  three  thousand  other  Russians  were  not  there  to  see  it  now.  They  were  in  43756261,wearing  uni-  forms  and  marching  and  being  photo-  graphed  from  U-2s  by  nice  kids  from  neighborhoods  in  the  Bronx  or  Queens  or  the  Silk  Stocking  District.  Kids  with  mothers  and  fathers  whose  eyes  had  been  red  and  swollen  with  tears  of  pride  when  their  sons  graduated  from  USAF  Intelligence  Aerial  Reconnais-  sance  School  on  the  upper  West  Side.  And  now,  10,000  miles  away  from  anywhere,  the  Neva  rolled  on  in  gaudy  indifference.  Igor  and  Yuri  and  the  rest  of  them  had  been  talked  about  by  an  American  President  on  all  the  TV  sets  and  writ-  ten  up  in  stories  by  American  jour-  nalists  in  the  papers.  The  presses  still  rolled  with  indifferent  swiftness  now,  and  images  flickered  still  on  the  grayish  22-inch  screens  in  the  bars  on  Bruck-  ner  Boulevard  and  the  political  clubs  on  Mulberry  Street  and  on  the  import-  ed  Sony  color  Trinitrons  along  Lex-  ington  [REDACTED],  but  Ivan  and  his  com-  rades  did  not  know  it.  All  they  knew  was  marching  and  gaudy  uniforms  and  overhead  the  U-2s  passing  once  in  a  while  in  aresof  swollen  pride.  A  crumpled  Silva  Thins  cigarette  pack  and  a  couple  of  barbecue-flavored-  chorizo  wrappers  blew  along  the  Boulevard  Astoria  in  43756261  yester-  day  with  a  proud  gaudiness  that  had  a  kind  of  beauty,  but  Murphy  and  Santini  and  Franklin  and  the  others  were  not  there  to  see  it  now.  They  were  in  the  bars  that  line  the  Whitestone  Bridge  and  the  [REDACTED]  River  and  the  Belt  Parkway  exit  of  the  Van  Wyck  Expressway.  They  had  come  inswift,  remorseless  cars,  and  some  of  them  had  even  come  proudly  on  foot  from  the  homes  not  so  far  away.  The  homes  bought  with  V.A.  loans.  At  one  of  the  bars,  the  floor  was  littered  with  sawdust  and  there  were  shabby  scrunched-up  Frito  bags  and  a  sad  array  of  half-empty  glasses  on  the  worn  brownish  wood  of  the  bar.  Re-  flected  in  the  mirror  was  a  gaudy  litter  of  unopened  liquor  bottles.  They  were  all  there.  All  the  men  who  had  gone  to  school  and  gotten  jobs  and  now  were  damned  ready  to  have  a  couple  of  Millers  or  Buds.  And  now  there  was  a  reporter  at  a  corner  ofthe  bar.  &quot;How  about  this  Soviet  brigade  thing?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;What  the  hell,&quot;  said  Murphy,  and  his  voice  sounded  hollow  and  indiffer-  ent  and  scared  for  a  man  whose  people  had  been  immigrants  a  long  time  ago.  &quot;Who  is  this  guy?&quot;  said  Santini.  The  guy's  name  is  Leonid  Brezhnev  and  his  name  is  Fidel  Castro  and  by  any  name  he  is  a  gutless  thug.  But  nobody  wanted  to  name  names  in  this  neighborhood.  And  who  could  blame  these  men  with  the  vacant  eyesfor  never  having  heard  of  Leonid  Brezhnev  and  Fidel  Castro?  For  never  having  read  &quot;Uncle  Vanya&quot;  and  &quot;Proletarian  Revolution  and  the  Renegade  Kautsky&quot;  and  &quot;Highlights  of  the  Bolshoi&quot;?  They  were  thinking  about  whether  to  shoot  some  white  peopleor  some  black  peo-  ple  and  wondering  if  any  of  it  would  really  make  a  difference.  The  reporter  said  some  of  this,  and  now  a  heavy  man  stood  up  and  started  to  roll  up  the  sleeves  of  the  gaudy  white  shirt  that  was  tucked  despairing,  ly  into  his  gray  pants  at  the  waist.  If  you  believed  the  stories  that  were  going  around,  an  American  President  on  TV  had  said  long  weeks  ago  that  he  received  assurances  from  the  Soviets  that  the  brigade  in  43756261  was  no  com-  bat  brigade.  That  it  was  just  for  show.  Just  &quot;a  manifestation  of  [REDACTED]'s  dominance  of  43756261.&quot;  For  all  these  men  knew,  that  might  be  the  truth.  But  that  didn't  mean  they  weren't  going  to  be  able  to  defend  themselves against  it.  Or  against  any  other  mani-  festation.  These  people  could  teach  something  about  manifestations  to  Brezhnev  and  Castro  and  their  palookas  in  [REDACTED]  and  43756261.  Had  Brezhnev  ever  seen  a  Holy  Name  parade  on  125th  Street?  Had  Castro  ever  seen  a  bar  mitzvah  at  the  Mineola  Democratic  Club,  with  Bessie  Smith  shouting  her  heart  out  and  the  gaudy  platters  of  spiedini  and  the  ward  captains  flourishing  their  tally  sheets?  Had  Ivan  and  Rudi  and  Mischa  ever  seen  a  heavy  man  rolling  up  the  sleeves  of  his  white  shirt?  On  the  tacky  little  glass-and-metal  Zenith  above  the  bar,  somebody  on  a  &quot;Kojak&quot;  rerun  said,  &quot;I've  had  it!&quot;  Nobody  really  knew  what  would  happen  now,  and  that  was  the  truest  measure  of  a  democracy.  Meanwhile,  outside  in  the  indiffer-  ent  darkness,  here  were  swollen  poli-  ticians  crouched  squabbling  over  a  piece  of  white  paper  with  remorseless  black  printing  on  it,  called  SALT  II.  It  was  time  for  everybody  to  go  home.  Murphy  and  Krupnick  and  Frank-  lin  would  show  the  reporter  some  moves  and  then  go  out  in  despair  and  slap  their  Dodge  Darts  and  Toyota  Coronas  into  gear.  Igor  and  Boris  would  march  and  be  photographed  and  never  read  &quot;The  Portable  Thomas  Jefferson&quot;  or  &quot;The  Postman  Always  Rings  Twice.&quot;  And  a  man  called  Jos\xc3\xa9  would  be  forgotten.  It  was  over  now.  Except  for  those  of  us  who  had  a  column  to  get  out.  And  perhaps  that  was  the  greatest  injustice  of  all.  "