 b"IN an  hour  he  is  due.  In  that  hour  I  I  have  tasks  to  perform  and  they,  of  course,  revolve  around  him.  I  shall  lay  the  fire.  I  shall  lay  it  as  I  learned  to  as  a  child.  Ishall  put  on  twists  of  paper,  small  pieces  of  coal,  and,  last  of  all,  a  few  dry  logs.  The  kindling  is  a  pale  wooden  chip  basket  delivered  from  the  vegetable  shop.  It  was  full  of  Clementines,  and  their  smell  lingers  in  it  like  a  presence.  Christmas  is  but  a  month  gone.  Then  I  did  not  know  him;  then  I  thought  of  myself  as  having  passed  those  seesaw  states,  subject  to  a  man,  maybe  loving  a  man,  on  tenterhooks  because  of  a  man.  Christmas  I  spent  with  my  grown-  up  children  and  several  old  friends  in  a  Tudor  house  in  the  North  of  En-  gland.  We  pulled  crackers,  put  on  ri-  diculous  paper  hats,  and  marvelled  at  how  happy  one  can  be  ripping  open  packages  or  finding  one's  name  crusted  with  a  bit  of  silly  gold  glitter.  My  younger  son  received  a  Russian  sword  and  went  about  the  room  lashing  the  uncomplaining  air.  We  clapped  and  summoned  up  adversaries  for  him,  and  he  delighted  in  the  game.  Next  day  it  snowed  and  I  thought,  as  I  watched  the  swirl  for  an  entire  afternoon,  that  I  could  watch  forever  because  I  had  reached  a  plateau.  It  was  quite  mes-  merizing  to  see  all  those  flakes  coming  vertically  through  the  hemisphere,  then  tilting  sideways,  and  finally  giving  a  beautiful  su\xc3\xa9de  sheen  to  the  gravelled  earth,  or  to  see  them  forming  like  small  white  stones  on  the  rhododendron  bushes,  and  feathery  plumes  on  the  branches  of  the  fir  trees.  That  was  only  Christmas,  and  then  came  the  meeting,  and  now  he  is  due  to  arrive.  My  next  task  is  to  plump  cushions.  A  man  I  know  said  that  of  all  housewifely  chores  it  is  the  most  boring,  the  most  monotonous,  but  still  we  do  it,  and  the  pink  satin  or  the  plum  velvet  or  the  patchwork  cushion  sits  there  in-  flated,  ridiculously  waiting.  Next  thing  is  to  get  more  coal  into  the  scuttle,  to  give  the  scuttle  a  bit  of  Brasso,  to  sweep  up  the  grains  of  coal  thatwill  have  been  spilled,  and,  if  possible,  tight-  en  the  legs  of  the  tongs  so  that  they  do  not  wobble  and  disgorge  the  lumps  of  coal  before  they  get  to  the  fire.  You  would  think  I  have  not  had  visitors  for  years,  but  I  have-in  fact,  they  flock  in  all  the  time.  But  it  is  as  if  I  see  everything  with  a  ruthless  clarity.  It  is  the  opposite  of  that  vigil  when  I  watched  the  snow  getting  thicker  and  thicker,  and  saw  the  icicles  extend  from  the  roof,  until  after  some  days  they  were  like  walking  sticks  or  beautiful  javelins  that  one  wanted  to   play  with.  I  would  paint  a  panel  of  this  sitting  room  in  this  one  hour  if  I  had  time  and  a  pot  of  emulsion.  The  walls  are  apricot-colored,  and  in  lamp-  light  they  are  most  pleasing  because  so  quietly  they  emit  a  glow.  Some-  times  I  think  of  the  yolk  of  a  gull's  egg  when  I  look  at  those  walls,  and  the  thought  ushers  me  on  to  the  month  of  June,  which  for  some  reason  I  connect  with  happy  and  graceful  events.  In  England  people  give  their  annual  ball,  girls  wear  myrtle  in  their  hair,  there  arethe  races  at  Ascot,  and  even  the  most  unsumptuous  garden  has  a  dis-  play  of  tea  roses  or  briarroses  or  ram-  bling  roses,  and  if  you  stay  in  one  of  those  lovely  country  houses  there  is  a  vase  of  them  on  your  bedside  table,  bright  and  wide  open  like  the  eyes  of  watchful  children.  But  this  is  daylight  and  winter,  and  even  the  myriad  bits  of  fluff  on  the  new  Edith  Piaf  record  have  caught  my  eye,  as  they  will  undoubtedly  catch  his.  So  it's  dusting  time.  I  would  make  it  night  if  I  were  setting  the  appoint-  ment.  Married  men  are  lunchtime  call-  ers.  I  know  that.  I  know  so  much-  albeit  so  little-about  married  men.  I  know  how  divided  they  must  be,  and  how  cursory,  and  how  mentally  they  must  brush  off  either  her  or  her  kiss  as  they  step  off  the  escalator  to  reach  the  [REDACTED],  or  as  they  step  into  their  motorcars,  or  as  they  glide  through  their  own  hallways,  whistling  or  hum-  ming  a  familiar,  guarded  tune.  They  deny.  They  could  be  called  Judas.  I  know  the  mistake  I  am  making.  I  see  the  exits  in  life.  It  will  be  six  months  or  the  proverbial  nine  months  before  it  ends,  and  yet  the  foreknowl-  edge  is  as  clear  as  the  first  meeting.  It  is  just  like  lifting  a  latch  and  seeing  in  to  the  blazing  fire  at  the  far  end  of  the  room,  with  the  passage  in  between,  its  carpet,  its  white  rug,  its  chaise  longue,  its  birdcage,  and  its  many  secular  de-  lights.  One  day  I  will  come  to  the  other  endand  I  will  perhaps  get  scorched.  I  was  brought  up  to  believe  in  Hell  and  I  was  brought  up  to  believe  that  men  are  masterful  and  fickle.  I  could,  of  course,  have  said  no,  but  I  didn't.  I  de-  murred  and  then  I  succumbed.  Never-  theless,  I  am  planning  something  new  for  myself.  I  am  putting  my  room  in  order.  The  smell  of  furniture  wax,  the  incenselike  smell,  will  fill  the  air  and  complement  the  beautiful  heady  inno-  cent  smell  of  the  hyacinths  that  I  have  cultivated  in  a  big  bowl.  Their  tubers  are  just  visible  above  the  clay,  and  they  are  the  dreamiest  white,  the  palest  blue,  and  a  pink  that  looks  artificial  in  color,  like  a  cake  icing.  They  are  " b"like  crests  on  the  round  table,  and  as  I  pass  to  do  this  or  that  I  want  to  bury  my  face  in  them,  but  there  is  no  time  and  also  specks  of  pollen  would  stain  the  tip  of  my  nose.  There  are  only  thirty  minutes  left.  HE  soup  that  is  supposed  to  be  simmering  on  the  kitchen  stove  is,  alas,  boiling.  I  cry  out,  add  cream,  and  beg  all  those  little  curds  to  disap-  pear  as  I  stir  it  more  and  more  in  a  circular  motion.  Then  I  cannot  find  the  em-  broidered  cloth  that  I  bought  in  537061696e.  Damn  it.  It  is  a  cream  cloth  with  red  appliqu\xc3\xa9s  stitched  over  it.  It  is  both  chaste  and  gay.  A  stranger  sit-  ting  down  to  eat  might  not  only  be  surprised  by  it  but  might  in  jest  say,  &quot;Get  me  the  castanets.&quot;  I  am  resolved  to  be  gay,  to  show  little  of  my  inner  self-no  old  sores  or  tragic  portraits.  The  cloth  is  not  in  the  cupboard,  and,  with  no  time  to  spare,I  ring  up  the  laundry.  The  laundry  building  is  eight  miles  away,  and  one  hundred  and  thirty  people  are  employed  there,  yet  I  am  rash  enough  to  think  that  my  Spanish  cloth  will  be  located  and  even  deliv-  ered  before  one  o'clock.  It  is  in  the  middle  of  my  conversa-  tion  with  an  insolent  girl  at  the  laundry  that  I  realize  that  the  soup  is  on  the  boil  again.  I  run  to  turn  the  gas  off,  and  en  route  catch  my  knitted  sleeve  on  the  loose  nail  of  the  cane  chair.  Things  are  getting  bungled.  These  last  minutes  are  the  worst.  Hurry,  Hurry.  But  when  I  get  out  the  cut-glass  gob-  lets,  I  remember  my  dead  mother.  She  gave  them  to  me.  Some  are  thickly  cut  with  raised  wedges  of  glass,  some  have  harps  that  seem  to  float  inside  the  walls  of  the  glass  itself,  and  three-  the  other  three  in  the  set  got  broken-  have  beautiful  indentations  to  fit  ex-  actly  the  print  of  a  thumb  or  a  finger.  I  shall  use  them.  I  shall  lay  places  for  three.  That  will  confuse  him.  I  intend  to  confuse  him.  I  intend  to  be  someone  else.  The  preparations  are  going  against  me-I  have  cut  the  bread  too  thick  and  the  smoked  salmon  is  in  slithers.  The  shop  has  rooked  me.  I  have  met  him,  this  caller,  only  once,  and  that  was  at  a  Christmas  party,  and  our  conver-  sation  was  pure  banter.  Then,  when  he  rang,  he  was  crispness  itself,  and  said  such  things  as  &quot;Well,  are  we  going  to  meet?  Not  that  I  think  we  should.&quot;  I  said  that  we  need  not  meet,  and,  indeed,  I  meant  it.  But  my  stepping  back  from  him  whetted  his  interest.  He  invited  himself  to  this  lunch.  &quot;I  shall  come  and  lift  lunch  off  you&quot;  was  what  he  said.  So  English.  So  arch.  I  have  made  a  cucumber  salad.  I  pressed  it  all  morn-  ing  between  two  platters.  Each  disc  of  cucumber  is  softness  itself,  and  even  the  green  has  been  drained  out  of  it.  I  sprinklethe  salad  with  parsley.  Soon  Ishall  have  to  take  off  the  cardigan,  because  I  am  wearing  a  new  black  dress.  It  fits  me  as  if  I  were  poured  into  it,  as  if  I  were  molded  to  it.  Busy  men  oftencancel  at  the  last  minute.  Maybe  he  won't  come;  maybe  he  will  ring  and  cancel.  He  is  a  com-  pany  director,  he  is  married,  he  has  a  chauffeur,  and  I  gather  that  his  wife  and  he  made  it  from  scratch.  He  prob-  ably  got  a  scholarship  and  went  to  Ox-  ford  or  [REDACTED].  Now  he  has  two  houses  and  a  croft  in  [REDACTED].  I  expect  he  is  used  to  servants;  maybe  they  have  a  cook.  ...  Good  God!  I  left  the  phone  off  the  hook  when  I  ran  from  it  to  save  the  soup.  He  may  have  tried  to  ring  and  decided  that  the  phone  is  out  of  order,  so  that  he  need  not  ring  again  to  account  for  his  non-appearance.  And  here  all  this  food,  the  lovely  wine,  pel-  lucid,  like  liquid  sun,  into  which  who  knows  how  many  precious  grapes  have  gone.  The  fruits  of  the  earth.  I  have  on  black  mesh  stockings  and  a  pair  of  lace  suspenders  that  I  found  in  my  mother's  drawer  after  she  had  died.  They  were  wrapped  up  in  a  bolster  case  along  with  other  things-necklaces,  veiling,  and  some  velvet  flowers.  They  shocked  me,  and  yetI  said,  &quot;They  will  come  in  handy  one  day,&quot;  and  put  them  in  my  suitcase.  Opening  the  wine,  I  gauge  my  strength  by  pulling  the  cork  out.  My  strength  is  monumental.  He  will  see  me  as  some  monster,  devouring.  I  leave  the  ladle  near  the  stove  and  turn  the  gas  down  until  it  shudders  and  shows  signs  of  extinguishment.  The  clock  has  not  chimed,  but  it  is  about  to.  It  is  in  the  next  room,  but  I  know  that  it  has  entered  that  spateof  hesitancy  that  prevailsjust  before  it  strikes.  It  broke  once,  but  I  had  a  man  in  from  the  city  to  repair  it.  He  was  actually  called  Mr.  Goldsmith.  I  am  superstitious  about  it  and  pray  that  it  will  not  ever  again  expire.  My  God,  there  is  the  doorbell.I  know  thatI  must  answer  it,  but  I  can-  not.  I  am  unable  to  move.  I  am  up-  " b"stairs.  I  cannot  descend.  I  read  some-  thing  last  night  when  I  was  unable  to  sleep.  It  has  affected  me.  I  read  that  the  only  paradise  is  the  paradise  lost.  Proust.  I  read  it  years  ago,  but  I  had  not  absorbed  it,  and  last  night,  after  rereading  it,  I  tossed  and  turned  in  my  wide  bed  and  thought  of  my  caller  and  how  I  would  seduce  him.  I  saw  our  little  drama  as  if  on  a  picture  postcard:  a  naked  couple  oblivious  of  the  serpent  that  lies  between  them.  And  I  thought  that  I  could  think  of  him  to  my  heart's  delight,  and  that  he  need  never  know,  that  he  must  never  know,  that  I  could  paint  postcard  after  postcard  and  give  to  skin  the  tints  and  the  textures  that  I  love,  and  give  to  speech  and  action  all  that  I  ever  desire.  I  could  ordain  it  re-  gardlessof  him,  and  of  course  I  thought  how  futile  that  would  be  in  the  end.  His  finger  is  on  the  bell.  He  certainly  is  not  timid-not  as  timid  as  I  would  be  entering  a  paramour's  house  and  not  quite  knowing  what  to  expect.  For  God's  sake,  I  must  do  something.  I  can't  just  stand  here.  After  all,  I  have  an  intercom.  I  can  pick  it  up  and  say,  &quot;Go  away,&quot;  or  &quot;She's  not  here,&quot;  or  &quot;Just  a  minute.&quot;  But  I  do  not  pick  it  up.  I  lean  against  thewall.I  am  wobbling.  I  go  down  the  stairs  to  let  him  in.  He  is  just  leaving.  He  seems  surly,  We  do  not  kiss  in  the  hall.  I  take  his  tweed  coat  and  very  formally  lay  it  sideways  on  the  prayer  chair.  As  he  comes  into  the  sitting  room,  I  see  his  evident  pleasure  as  he  takes  stock  of  things.  " b" Nice  room  you've  got,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;We  like  it,&quot;  I  say.  (\xe2\x80\x98Wep  2  &quot;Yes,  we  area  we.&quot;  HAVE  set  the  course.  I  shall  lie.  I  shall  invent  a  lover,  a  mysterious  one  who  comes  at  night  rather  than  at  noon,  a  privileged  one  who  is  allowed  to  share  the  secrets  of  my  soul,  as  this  one  must  never  be.  Perhaps  in  this  way  I  shall  have  my  little  Paradise  Lost,  yet  I  wonder  if  one  has  to  enter  it  in  order  to  find  it,  in  order  to  lose  it.  &quot;Do  you  always  dress  like  this?'&quot;  he  asks.  The  question  bristles  with  at-  traction  and  reproof.  &quot;If  I  feel  like  it.&quot;  I  am  pouring  the  wine.  He  says  that  he  does  not  drink  but  that  he  will  drink  with  me.  I  say  there  is  apple  juice,  and  point  to  it,  on  the  beautiful  gallery  tray.  He  accepts  the  wine.  He  puts  his  tongue  out  in  an  involuntary  gesture  to  taste  whatever  there  is  to  taste.  &quot;You  don't  know  how  lucky  you  are,&quot;  he  tells  me.  &quot;Why?&quot;  I  ask.  &quot;Because  Ilike  black  stockings  and  black  satin,  for  some  odd  reason.&quot;  &quot;In  that  case,  you  are  the  lucky  one.&quot;  His  eyes  are  like  violets,  but  his  skin  is  bleached.  There  is  something  frozen  about  him.  Life,  too,  has  left  its  cold  claws  on  his  shoulder.  But  I  will  never  know.  No  more  thanhe  will  ever  know  about  me.  He  is  about  to  kiss  me.  I  wonder  if  one  has  to  enter  the  gates  of  paradise,  even  the  tiniest  adulterous  little  paradise,  in  order  to  find  it,  in  order  to  lose  it,  in  order  to  refind  it,  in  perpetuity.  And,  wondering,  I  float  into  the  first  bewildered  kiss. "