 b"ON  a  windless  early  evening  in  O  October,  almost  the  best  time  of  day  of  the  best  time  of  year  in  [REDACTED],  no  one  was  standing  on  the  escarpment  path  in  Rachel  River  County  [REDACTED],  where  you  can  look  out  over  the  fir  forests  toward  Lake  Su-  perior  and  the  distant  glow  of  lights  of  West  Duluth.  The  park  was  deserted,  in  fact-no  one  there  leaning  on  the  old  W.P.A.-built  wall  to  watch  the  Rachel  River  falling  perfectly  from  one  black  stone  to  the  next,  eventually  to  find  its  way  down  the  escarpment  to  the  place  where  it  joins  the  St.  Louis  River.  People  in  Rachel  River  keep  busy,  and  sometimes  they  seem  too  dis-  tracted  to  see  things.  No  one,  for  in-  stance,  had  noticed  a  battered  safe,  which  sat  in  the  bed  of  the  stream  in  the  park.  It  had  been  stolen  from  a  Union  76  gas  station  a  month  earlier,  in  a  celebrated  local  crime.  The  thief  had  been  found  out  and  caught,  butthe  safe,  torch-cut  open  and  dumped  right  in  the  middle  of  Rachel  River,  still  lay  among  the  rocks,  and  the  slight,  spindly  water  fell  on  it  without  variance.  On  this  particular  evening,  a  Tues-  day,  most  of  the  regular  people-that  is,  not  the  Duluth  Airbase  personnel  and  their  wives,  who  don't  count,  but  the  regulars-were  down  at  the  Rachel  River  V.F.W.  Lounge.  Drinks,  for  once,  were  at  half  price,  in  honor  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Kevin  Ohlaug's  son,  Curt.  Everyone  explained  to  everyone  else  that  Curt  Ohlaug  had  been  in  the  service  in  some  native  place  called  En-  gola  or  Angola,  no  one  knew  in  what  branch  of  the  service,  but,  anyway,  now  he  was  back,  and  drinks  were  at  half  price.  The  local  radio-news  lady,  a  thirty-three-year-old  -divorc\xc3\xa9e  named  Mary  Graving,  sat  in  the  best  corner  booth  of  the  V.F.W.  Lounge.  She  was  celebrating  something  secretly.  From  the  beginning,  she  had  intended  to  spend  the  whole  evening  there,  so  she  had  had  the  foresight  to  prop  herself  up  in  the  right  angle  between  the  back  of  the  booth  and  the  wall.  By  her  elbow,  someone  had  scratched  on  the  wall  a  suggestion  to  the  I.R.S.  about  what  it  could  do  with  itself.  Mary  had  ar-  ranged  a  smile  on  her  face  quite  a  while  ago;  now  it  was  safely  fixed  there,  and  she  herself  was  safely  fixed,  and  al-  though  she  was  immensely  drunk,  she  was  not  so  drunk  as  the  others,  which  meant  she  counted  as  dead  sober.  When  Mary  Graving  was  sober,  her  face  was  too  decided  and  twitchy  to  look  good  with  the  large  plain  earrings  she  always  wore.  She  thought  she  was  generally  too  grim-looking,  and  her  earrings  looked  too  cheerful  at  the  edges  of  her  face.  Now  that  she  was  drunk,  though,  and  wearing  a  red  dress,  her  face  felt  hot  and  rosy.  Her  smile  stayedstuck  on,  and  she  knew  that  the  earrings-a  new  pair,  espe-  cially  cheap,  not  from  Bagley's  in  Du-  luth  but  a  product  of  the  Ben  Frank-  lin  Store  in  Rachel  River-looked  fine.  She  was  not  beautiful  but  she  was  all  right.  She  was  crowded  into  the  booth  with  seven  local  people  whose  familiar  faces  were  getting  blurred.  One  was  LeRoy  Beske,  the  sheriff.  Each  person  had  a  hand  round  his  glass,  and  their  fingers  looked  silvery  in  the  night-club  light-  ing.  The  fingers  were  numb  and  stiff  with  drink,  as  silvery  and  thick  as  fin-  gers  in  the  empty  suits  of  armor  in  city  museums.  No  one  is  shallow  and  vul-  gar  forever;  sooner  or  later  the  whole  species  likes  to  be  profound.  Now,  after  everyone  had  pleased  everyone  else  by  adding  comments  to  the  I.R.S.  graffito,  a  moment  came  when  LeRoy  Beske  was  profound.  The  others  could  take  it  from  him,  the  sheriff  explained,  that  all  of  culture-all  of  American  culture,  and  that  went  forthe  Europeans,  too,  they  weren't  any  better-was  getting  more  and  more  slovenly  and  cowardly  and  uniquely  filthy.  The  sheriff  repeat-  ed  the  last  phrase  clearly,  as  sonorous  as  John  Donne.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;uniquely  filthy.&quot;  In  1946  he  had  stood  on  the  Boulevard  Saint-Germain  with  his  buddies,  and  he  could  assure  them  the  French,  too,  like  everyone  else,  even  the  French  with  their  fancy  [REDACTED],  were  uniquely  filthy.  Everyone  in  the  booth  marvelled  at  every  re-  mark.  A  hundred  philosophies  brimmed  wonderfully  in  their  heads.  That  was  Tuesday  night.  At  nine-  thirty  the  next  morning,  Wednesday,  the  dispatcher's  room  in  the  Rachel  River  jail  was  softened  by  sunlight  that  slanted  through  the  barred  horizontal  windows.  Kristi  Marie,  who  covered the  radio,  was  filling  out  court  forms  at  herdesk  under  the  two  radio  speakers;  a  deputy  named  DeWayne  Sorkelson  sat  at  another  desk,  idly  making  throws  onto  the  blotter  from  a  dice  cup.  The  sheriff  himself  leaned  byone  of  the  windows,  watching  for  the  other  dep-  uty,  Merle  Schaefer,  to  come  in.  Ev-  erything  was  as  usual,  but  the  team  was  a  little  nervous  this  morning,  be-  cause  Kristi  Marie  and  DeWayne  knew  that  LeRoy  Beske  was  going  to  put  the  scare  onto  Merle  whenever  he  showed  up.  Now  and  then,  while  they  waited,  a  message  came  crackling  in  on  the  ra-  dio;  Krist  Marie  replied,  and  a  voice  would  say  &quot;Ten-four,&quot;  and  the  radio  went  off  again.  Kristi  Marie  was  on  the  two-way  forthe  forenoon,  but  she  had  told  them  plainly  that  someone  else  would  have  to  cover  in  the  afternoon,  because  she  and  five  other  girls  were  going  in  a  car  to  Duluth,  to  an  art  gallery.  A  member  of  their  study  club  had  sug-  gested  that  with  the  world  getting  the  way  it  was  in  so  many  places,  it  was  a  shame  to  throw  away  the  cultural  op-  portunities  they  had,  what  with  Rachel  River  beingonly  eleven  miles  away  from  Duluth,  so  Kristi  Marie  was  go-  ing.  Now  the  sheriff  straightened  up.  Merle  had  appeared  outside  the  jail,  where  he  paused  on  the  concrete  steps  and  gave  a  languid  smile  to  a  little  boy  named  Gregsy  Hanson,  whose  face  shone  up  at  him.  Poor  kid,  the  sheriff  thought.  Gregsy  Hanson's  dad  sold  him  out  forthe  bottle,  and  his  mother  sold  out  everybody  in  town.  When  she  went  down  the  aisles  in  the  Super  Valu  she  even  sold  outher  baby  as  he  sat  in  the  cart,  explaining  his  faults  to  every-  one  in  the  produce  section.  And  now,  the  sheriff  thought,  even  this  cop  that  Gregsy  admired  wasn't  much  good.  Merle  came  in  the  jailhouse  door,  and  Gregsy  stood  one-legged  on  the  con-  crete,  with  his  other  knee  thrown  over  the  seat  of  his  bike,as  he  watched  him  go.  The  Duluth  Herald  bag  lay,  caved  in,  in  his  bike  basket.  &quot;Turn  on  the  radio  to  KTRW,  so  we  get  the  Rachel  River  program  when  it  comes  on,&quot;  the  sheriff  said  to  Kristi  Marie.  &quot;Turn  it  low  until  she  comes  on,  though.&quot;  Merle  came  in,  raising  a  hand  to  his  glossy,  thick  hair.  He  was  having  an  affair  with  a  woman  named  Verona  McIvor,  in  Floodwood,  and  whenever  helooked  in  the  mirror  of  his  cop  car  he  saw  a  man  involved  with  a  woman,  and  with  women  generally-a  gigantic  man  hopelessly  wrapped  in  physical  sat-  isfactions,  his  own  desires,  women's  de-  sires  for  him.  When  he  walked,  there  " b"was  a  lunge  about  his  walking,  as  if  he  car-  ried  several  women  on  his  shoulders,  clinging;  they  clung  all  about  him,  and  his  walk  sup-  ported  the  great  weight  of  them.  &quot;All  right,  Merle,&quot;  the  sheriff  said.  He's  going  to  bust  me  for  seeing  Verona,  Merle  thought,  instant,  ly  noticing  that  no  one  in  the  room  would  look  at  him.  I  don't  want  no  counterculture  job  selling  auto  parts  to  farmers,  he  thought.  I  want  this  job.  I  want  the  uniform.  His  quick  glance  out  the  window  showed  him  that  that  little  kid,  Gregsy  Han-  son,  was  still  standing  there  waiting  to  look  at  him,  Merle.  &quot;O.K.,  Merle,&quot;  the  sheriff  said.  &quot;We  live  in  one  lousy,  slovenly  time  of  United  [REDACTED]  history,  but  there  is  one  lousy,  slovenly  thing  that's  not  going  to  hap-  pen  again  in  Rachel  River  County.  O.K.?  O.K.  Labor  Day  you  were  in  charge  of  the  Gold  Star  Mothers'  car  in  the  parade,  right?  O.K.,  the  parade  forms  in  front  of  the  Vision  Avenue  Apartments,  where  you  pick  up  the  Gold  Star  Mother,  the  only  one  we  got  left,  and  then  everyone  marches  and  drives  to  the  cemetery  where  they  have  the  doings.  I  got  two  complaints  on  you.  First,  you  stuffed  our  one  re-  maining  Gold  Star  Mother  into  the  car  so  mean  she  got  bruised.  She  brought  a  charge.  But  that  isn't  all.  Then  you  get  to  the  cemetery,  and  I  suppose  I  ought  to  be  grateful  you  didn't  run  down  them  Rachel  River  Saddle  Club  horses  on  the  way.  When  you  got  to  the  cemetery,  what'd  you  do  butget  out  and  turn  off  the  ignition,  which  means  the  air-conditioning  went  off.  You  left  the  windows  rolled  up  and  you  left  the  Gold  Star  Mother  in  there.  Mrs.  Lorraine  Graving  is  not  a  young  woman;  it  was  a  hundred  and  five  Fahrenheit.  She  could  have  died  in  there.  I  would  like  you  to  know  that  she  is  a  symbol  of  our  whole  national  honor.  Without  her  we  wouldn't  be  the  kind  of  country  we  are  today.  Now,  if  we're  not  going  to  have  any  respect  anymore  it'll  be  the  end  of  the  Gold  Star  Mother  program  completely.&quot;  Merle  was  sorelieved  it  was  not  about  this  woman  that  he  was  seeing  in  Floodwood  that  he  had  to  work  to  keep  from  smiling.  He  would  not  lose  his  job  over  stuffing  a  Gold  Star  Mother  into  a  Ford.  He  said  &quot;Yes,  sir&quot;  in  a  tone  he  had  heard  on  a  police  program  on  TV.  &quot;And  there's  another  thing,&quot;  the  sheriff  said.  &quot;You  regard  yourself  as  this  big  hand  with  the  ladies.&quot;  &quot;No,  [REDACTED];  Merle  said  with  great  dignity.  &quot;Well,  since  you're  such  agreat  man  with  the  ladies,&quot;  the  sheriff  went  on,  &quot;I've  got  something  you  can  do  to-  day.  You  know  her-it's  Mrs.  Blatke,  that  widow  of  that  guy  committed  sui-  cide,  Well,  I  want  you  to  find  her,  and  then  you  make  it  clear  to  her  she  doesn't  call  the  police  anymore.  I  know  she's  upset.  I  know  her  husband  robbed  the  Union  76  station  and  we  caught  him,  and  I  know  he  killed  himself.  I  took  that  refresher  course  on  police  psy-  chology  and  I  know  she  blames  herself  or  something,  but  that  don't  mean  she  can  go  round  town  getting  in  fights  with  everyone  all  over  Rachel  River  and  then  call  the  police.  O.K.?  And  I  don't  want  you  to  tell  her  mean.  Tell  her  nice  but  firm.  And  don't  make  a  pass  at  her.&quot; &quot;You  got  to  be  kidding!&quot;  Merle  shouted.  &quot;Make  a  pass  at  Mrs.  Blatke!  Listen,  nobody  would  serve  as  a  pall-  bearer  at  her  husband's  funeral,  and  who  volunteers  but  me,  and  I  got  the  five  others,  too!&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  the  sheriff  said.  &quot;And  then  later  that  night  you  called  her  up  and  word  is  you  made  a  pass  at  her.&quot;  Kristi  Marie  waved  one  hand  at  them  and  turned  up  the  volume  on  the  speakers.  &quot;And  now,&quot;  the  radio  an-  nouncer's  voice  said,  &quot;we  go  to  Mary  Graving,  in  Rachel  River,  for  the  Ra-  chel  River  County  news.  Good  morn-  ing,  Mary!&quot;  &quot;Good  morning,  Bert!&quot;  said  Mary.  Her  voice  sounded  a  little  husky,  be-  cause  it  was  carried  by  telephone  from  her  house  at  the  south  end  of  Ra-  chel  River  to  the  Duluth  studio  and  then  the  eleven  miles  back  again  by  radio.  &quot;Today  is  the  Feast  of  St.  Maurus,&quot;  Mary  said.  She  did  not  sound  very  hung  over.  &quot;Gee,  she's  got  a  nice  voice,&quot;  the  sheriff  said.  &quot;I'm  glad  she  took  that  job,  since  she  had  to  geta  job.  Is  it  true  she's  got  nerves?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know,&quot;  Krist  Marie  said.  &quot;I  heard  that,  too.  But  she  always  seems  real  cheerful.&quot;  Krist  Marie  " b"tipped  her  plump  face  up  toward  the  loudspeaker  over  her  desk.  &quot;She  never  forgets  anything,  either,&quot;  she  added.  &quot;She  had  it  on  five  times  to  remind  people  to  bring  potluck  to  the  St.  John's  annual  meeting,  and  that's  not  even  her  church,  she  didn't  need  to  have.&quot;  They  all  listened  to  the  radio  over  the  quiet  whine  of  the  jail  fan.  The  sheriff  and  the  other  officer  had  begun  casting  the  dice  to  see  who  paid  afternoon  coffee.  &quot;Although  today  is  actually  the  Feast  of  St.  Maurus,  we  haven't  got  any  reliable  information  about  his  life,  and  for  a  very  special  reason  I'd  like  to  tell  you,  instead,  about  St.  Alban,&quot;  the  radio  said.  &quot;But  she  shouldn't  have  religion  on  the  radio,&quot;  Krist  Marie  said.  &quot;Last  time  they  had  religion  on,  we  got  seven  phone  calls  from  Lutherans  saying  they  didn't  want  that  Catholic  crap  on  the  radio,  and  nine  calls  from  Catholics  saying  they  wanted  equal  time  if  they  were  going  to  have  that  kind  of  Lu-  theran  crap  on.&quot;  &quot;Speaking  of  religion,&quot;  the  sheriff  said.  &quot;Do  you  remember  when  that  oc-  cult  group  cut  up  all  those  cattle,  over  toward  Perham?&quot;  &quot;I  remember  that,&quot;  Krist  Marie  said.  &quot;It  is  too  bad  that  St.  Alban  isn't  better  known,&quot;  Mary  was  saying  over  the  radio,  &quot;because  we  have  a  man  in  Rachel  River  with  a  birthday  today,  who  is  here,  alive,  able  to  celebrate  that  birthday,  just  because  of  people  in  [REDACTED]  who  did  what  St.  Alban  did  long  before  that.  St.  Alban  was  the  first  martyr  in  the  British  Isles.  Dur-  ing  some  persecutions,  Roman  soldiers  were  going  around  picking  up  Chris-  tians  to  torture  them,  and  a  legion-  naire  came  to  Alban's  door  and  said,  'We  are  looking  for  a  certain  escaped  Christian.&quot;  Well,  this  Christian  was  hiding  in  Alban's  attic,  and  Alban  had  traded  clothes  with  him.  'Yes,  I  know,&quot;  Alban  said.  'I  am  the  one  you  are  look-  ing  for.&quot;  'You  don't  look  like  him,'  the  soldier  said.  Alban  said,  'Look  at  my  clothes-look  at  me.  I'm  the  one  you  want.'  The  Roman  soldier  was  stub-  born,  however,  and  said,  Somehow,  you  don't  look  like  the  right  man.  But  then  he  thought,  I've  got  to  bring  in  somebody,  and  itis  getting  late,  so  finally  he  said,  'All  right,  all  right-  whatever  the  Latin  or  Celtic  for  'All  right,  all  right'  is-and  he  took  in  Al-  ban,  and  they  killed  him.  &quot;During  World  War  Two,&quot;  Mary's  radio  voice  went  on,  &quot;underground  forces  in  Occupied  Europe  faced  the  same  sort  of  thing  Alban  faced.  It  must  have  been  terrifying  to  have  someone  knock  at  night  and  explain  he  was  an  American  flier  or  an  under-  ground  intelligence  agent,  and  could  you  hide  him?  You  always  knew  that  if  the  Germans  caught  you,  you  would   be  tortured  for  information  and  then  likely  killed.  Well,  Mahlon  Hanson,  of  Rachel  River,  who  gets  our  radio  birthday  greetings  today,  is  alive  be-  cause  somebody  was  brave  enough  to  riskself  and  family  to  hide  him,  thirty-  four  years  ago,  and  help  him  reach  the  Channel.  And,  speaking  of  help,  what  better  help  could  you  expect  than  to  have  your  next  winter's  furnace  costs  cut  in  half-that's  right,  cut  right  in  half.  You  couldn't  do  better  than  to  plan  now,  because  if  fall  is  here  winter  can't  be  far  behind,  and  Merv  Skjole-  stad  is  carrying  a  line  of  woodburning  stoves  that  can  make  hundreds  of  dol-  lars  of  savings  for  you.&quot;  HEN  the  program  was  over,  Mary  replaced  the  telephone  re-  ceiver  in  its  cradle,  turned  off  the  pow-  er  box,  and  unplugged  the  cassette  player  she  used  for  taping  town-council  notices.  The  Duluth  station  had  set  up  this  radio-telephone  hookup  for  her  in  her  own  basement.  To  Mary,  the  pro-  gram  meant  a  tiny,  unfailing  income,  with  the  marvellous  virtue  that  she  could  be  home  when  her  children,  Will  and  Molly,  got  home  from  school  every  day.  The  other  end  of  the  base-  ment  was  reserved  for  her  toymaking  business.  Between  the  radio  program  and  the  toymaking,  Mary  spent  many  hoursevery  day  in  the  cool,  brightly  lighted  basement.  The  old  cellar  shelves  were  soft  and  grainy  with  rot;  the  previous  renter,  an  A.F.D.C.  mother,  had  left  loops  of  rusty  Kerr-top  can-  ning  rings  there,  but  Mary  had  scrubbed  off  the  space  she  needed,  and  spread  out  the  tools  of  her  trade  there-a  dish  of  chuck  keys,  a  small  sabre  saw,  two  sizes  of  nail  sets,  all  her  lacquers,  a  mitre  box,  her  power  saws  and  sander.  The  place  reminded  one  that  genera-  tions  of  women  had  stored  home  canning  there  and  had  filled  and  emptied  laundry  tubs  into  the  sump  hole;  there  was  an  aura  of  domestic  bravery  and  do-  mesticsqualor  about  the  place  still.  But  now  the  basement  had  some  glint  and  bustle,  too,  which  came  from  Mary's  shiny,  impos-  ingly  modern  radio  equip-  ment  on  the  desk,  her  squared-off  drawings  on  the  steel  table,  and  the  bright-  orange  electrical  drop  cords  curling  everywhere.  In  the  " b"middle  of  the  room,  and  in  the  space  where  a  washing  machine  had  been  before  the  men  had  recently  come  and  repossessed  it,  there  stood  several  half-fin-  ished  castles  and  Nor-  man  keeps  and  three-  storeyed  doll  houses,  all  smelling  beautifully  of  AC  ply.  On  school-day  after-  noons,  the  children  would  burst  into  the  house  above  her;  the  old  farmhouse  shud-  dered  when  they  struck  the  door  with  their  knuckles  and  books.  Mary  would  climb  the  basement  stairs  dazed-  ly,  and  in  the  shabby  living  room  she  and  Will  and  Molly  would  drink  cocoa,  sitting  in  front  of  a  print  of  two  sailing  ships  over  the  mantel.  The  ships  were  heavily  square-rigged.  They  tore  along  in  the  lunging,  green,  tre-  mendously  deep  Atlan-  tic.  The  children  loved  to  say,  &quot;Just  think  what  would  happen  if  a  man  fell  overboard  into  that  seal&quot;  And  Mary  usually  assured  them  solemnly,  &quot;It  must  have  been  nearly  impossible,  in  those  days,  to  put  her  about  to  pick  up  anyone.&quot;  Some-  times  Mary  explained  as  much  about  the  rigging  as  she  understood.  They  all  drank  their  cocoa  and  speculated  silent-  ly  about  a  man  overboard  treading  wa-  ter  in  the  deep  sea  and  watching  his  ship  grow  smaller  as  it  sailed  away  and  left  him.  Then,  on  most  days,  the  chil-  dren  went  outdoors  to  play,  and  Mary  went  into  the  kitchen.  Little  by  little,  the  hours  of  silent  work  in  the  base-  ment  would  sift  from  her  mind,  until  soon  her  supper-making  seemed  per-  fectly  practical,  perfectlypleasant,  in  the  way  that  hobbies  are  pleasant  when  you  get  your  mind  off  your  lifework.  If  they  were  having  pastry  for  dinner,  she  gave  it  her  attention  and  got  it  right.  But  just  now,  in  October,  Will  and  Molly  were  spending  a  week  in  Pike  Lake  with  their  father,  Cordell,  As  Mary  worked  on  a  bookcase  she  was  building  as  a  surprise  for  them,  she  kept  track  of  the  quarter  hours  as  she  waited  for  the  time,  arranged  with  Cordell,  when  she  would  telephone and  talk  to  them,.  The  calling  hour  was  agreed  on  for  midday  on  Wednesday,  since  school  would  be  closed  then  for  a  Teachers'  In-Service.  Across  from  where  Mary  sat,  there  stood  the  old,  red-painted  steel  table,  on  which  she  kept  her  drawings  oftoys  and  her  gen-  eral  accounts.  In  her  childhood,  in  Duluth,  there  had  been  metal  furni-  ture  in  two  places  in  her  house-in  the  maids'  room  in  the  basement  and  out  on  the  shaded,  north-facing  ter-  race.  Every  spring,  the  terrace  furni-  ture  was  repainted  by  the  hired  man  and  then  set  out  on  the  stone  flagging.  All  summer,  it  never  seemed  to  lose  its  chill.  Mary  had  been  expected  to  take  part  in  her  mother's  teas  out  there,  when  she  had  to  listen  to  her  mother's  friends  and  their  little  quarrels  about  books.  They  sat  on  the  painted  metal  in  their  silk  dresses,  and  responded  to  one  another  in  flurries.  &quot;Oh,  but  Julia,&quot;  they  cried,  &quot;can  you  really  say  that  with  impunity?&quot;  Mary  sometimes  found  herself  staring  down,  past  the  terrace  ferns,  into  the  window  of  the  maids'  room  in  the  basement.  She  could  see  the  two  iron  beds  there.  Her  own  basement,  Mary  sometimes  felt  now,  was  not  unlike  the  maids'  room.  Sitting  by  the  unfinished  bookcase,  Mary  fitted  new  paper  into  her  sander.  At  the  same  time,  she  was  estimating  her  income  forthe  current  year.  The  bookcase  was  to  have  a  lever  on  one  side,  which  opened  a  secret  vertical  shaft  that  would  run  from  the  top  to  the  bottom  of  the  case,  at  its  back.  On  the  opposite  side,  the  left,  there  would  bea  fishing  reel  fastened  to  the  case,  which  was  to  operate  a  miniature  dumbwaiter  inside  the  secret  shaft.  She  meant  to  make  a  tiny  velvet-covered  chest  to  fit  in  the  dumbwaiter,  in  which  the  children  could  keep  their  treasures-whatever  they  liked.  She  was  not  building  this  bookcase  to  be  sold,  and  for  this  reason  her  face  was  mo-  bile,  nervous,  and  sometimes  smiling  as  she  worked.  Her  facial  tic  was  not  so  bad  as  it  was  sometimes.  The  other  toys  standing  about-the  apartment-  building  doll  houses,  the  sixteenth-cen-  tury  half-timber  doll  houses,  the  cas-  tles,  and  the  puppet  show-were  all  " b"parts  of  her  business.  They  sold  at  prices  from  sixty-five  dollars  to  four  hundred  dollars  each.  Before  she  became  self-supporting,  she  had  never  imagined  that  one  tends  to  do  major  economic  calculations  over  and  over  again  in  one's  head,  as  if  the  figures  might  improve  with  repetition.  She  knew  that  her  total  intake  this  past  year  would  be  eleven  thousand  three  hundred  dollars,  but  she  kept  refigur-  ing  it.  Now  she  added  things  up  again  while  she  carefully  drilled  ahole  for  the  fishing-reel  cable  to  run  through.  The  twenty-minute  radio  program,  five  days  a  week,  brought  her  five  hundred  dollars  a  month,  which  was  six  thousand  dollars  a  year.  If  she  com-  missioned  four  large  castles  at  three  hundred  and  fifty  dollars  each,  that  would  be  fourteen  hundred  dollars,  which  made  a  total  so  far  of  seventy-  four  hundred.  Ten  medium-sized  cas-  tles  would  bring  in  fifteen  hundred  dollars  more,  making  a  total  of  eight  thousand  nine  hundred.  In  the  first  year  after  he  had  left  her,  Cordell  sent  her  eleven  out  of  the  twelve  agreed-  upon  monthly  child-support  payments;  in  the  second  year,  he  sent  ten.  Now  she  figured  he  would  send  an  average  of,  say,  eight  payments  per  year  for  another  year  or  so.  At  one  hundred  and  fifty  dollars  per  child,  that  brought  the  total  to  eleven  thousand  three  hundred  dollars.  It  was  not  really  enough.  She  worked  at  the  children's  book-  case  for  an  hour,  getting  used  to  the  pleasure  and  irritations  of  the  task.  She  liked  to  work  fast,  watching  her  hands  touching  things  gently.  She  disliked  her  habit  of  sometimes  carrying  a  pen-  cil  or  nails  in  her  mouth.  Presently  she  went  over  to  the  radio  table  and  telephoned  a  farm-equipment  dealer  named  Merv  Skjolestad  to  suggest  that  she  write  him  an  ad  for  his  Patz  ma-  nure-movers,  which  she  could  alternate  with  the  ads  she  now  read  over  the  ra-  dio  for  his  Schweiss  woodburning  fur-  nace.  She  could  alternate  the  ads-  Monday-Wednesday-Friday  and  Tues-  day-Thursday.  Merv  told  her  that  wasn't  all  he  had.  He  had  a  whole  new  line  of  grain-storage  bins  and  some  brand-new  milk-house  equipment.  She  took  down  the  sizes  and  prices,  and  told  him  she  could  do  the  furnaces  on  Mon-  days,  the  grain  and  milk-house  line  Tuesdays,  and  the  Patz  equipment  and  furnaces  by  turn  on  Wednesdays,  Thursdays,  and  Fridays.  She  eased  him  off  the  telephone  in  time  to  call  the  children  at  the  prearranged  time.  She  listened  to  the  telephone  ring  twenty  times.  Then  she  decided  she  might  have  misdialled,  so  she  called again  and  let  it  ring  ten  more  times.  After  a  while,  she  went  upstairs  to  wash  her  face,  which  looked  awful.  She  was  a  person  whose  eyes  puffed  up  quickly.  She  gathered  her  sheets  and  clothes  from  a  basket  and  drove  to  the  other  end  of  town,  to  the  laundromat.  She  was  very  sorry  to  find  a  woman  she  knew  named  Mrs.  Blatke  in  the  laun-  dromat,  sorting  through  a  pile  of  un-  claimed  clothing.  &quot;Why,  hello,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Blatke,  in  a  false  tone.  Mrs.  Blatke's  voice  was  not  perfectly  re-  spectful,  because  although  her  husband  had  been  caught  knocking  over  the  Union  76  station  and  then  had  felt  so  bad  that  he  couldn't  support  her  and  their  kids  that  he  had  committed  sui-  cide,  at  least  he  had  been  a  faithful  husband  to  her,  and  this  Mrs.  Mary  Graving  might  bea  big  shot,  with  a  big-shot  job  running  the  radio  program  from  Rachel  River  and  selling  fancy  toys  to  big  shots  in  Duluth,  but  the  fact  was  Mrs.  Blatke's  husband  had  died  and  Mrs.  Graving's  husband  had  just  up  and  left  her.  Mrs.  Blatke,  therefore,  did  not  move  over  enough  to  let  Mary  Graving  get  her  laundry  bag  between  the  folding  table  and  the  line  of  machines.  Mary,  on  her  side,  knew  that  Mrs.  Blatke  stole  clothing  from  people's  dryer  loads  if  they  were   for  the  season  -Howarp  Moss  not  watching,  so  she  did  not  say  &quot;Ex-  cuse  me&quot;  when  her  laundry  bag  hit  Mrs.  Blatke's  leg,  with  the  sharp  edge  of  the  Cheer  box  inside  the  bag  doing  the  hitting.  Then  Mary  thought  of  something  she  must  have  forgotten  in  her  car,  and  she  went  back  out  and  came  back  in  and  squeezed  by  Mrs.  Blatke  again  and  hit  her  legs  all  over  again.  &quot;Funny  a  lady  like  you  having  to  use  the  laundromat,&quot;  Mrs.  Blatke  said  after  a  while.  &quot;I've  heard  if  you  miss  one  payment  on  a  washing  ma-  chine  they  will  repossess  it,  these  days.  But  I  wouldn't  know.  I  was  never  one  to  buy  stuff  I  couldn't  afford  and  then  have  to  have  it  repossessed.&quot;  Mary  looked  thoughtfully  out  the  window.  &quot;I  doubt  if  that  cop  is  coming  to  look  for  me,&quot;  she  said  aloud.  &quot;I  never  have  had  cops  coming  after  me  in  a  laundromat.  Maybe  he's  got  some-  thing  to  say  just  to  you?  I  could  step  outside,&quot;  Mrs.  Blatke  jerked  aroundand  peered  out  the  steamed  window.  &quot;That's  a  no-good  cop,&quot;  she  said  warmly.  &quot;He  isn't  much,&quot;  Mary  said.  They  gave  each  other  a  quick  look  and  then  Mrs.  Blatke  said,  actually  in  a  kindly  tone,  &quot;He  did  volunteer  to  bea  pallbearer  at  my  poor  hubby's  funeral,  though,  and  no  one  else  would,  because  .  .  .  Because.&quot;  &quot;I  know,&quot;  Mary  said.  &quot;And  I'm  sorry  about  your  husband,  too.&quot;  Outside,  in  the  autumn  sunshine,  the  policeman  leaned  against  his  car,  idly  smoothing  his  glossy  black  hair.  Mary  didn't  wait  to  dry  her  clothes,  but  took  them  wet  from  the  machine  and  got  into  her  car  and  drove  away  " b"from  the  laundromat.  In  the  rearview  mirror,  she  saw  the  policeman-whose  name  she  now  remembered:  Merle-  amble  into  the  building.  HE  had  an  appointment  with  a  man  named  Fran  Paddock  for  three  o'clock  at  Ye  Olde  61-a  kind  of  roadhouse  dinner  club,  which  he  and  a  partner,  who  did  some  sort  of  cooking  for  the  place,  had  recently  bought.  Now  they  were  going  to  keep  it  open  in  the  afternoons,  too,  in  order  to  sell  quality  tourist  items.  The  club  stood  halfway  between  Pike  Lake  and  Ra-  chel  River,  on  a  bypassed  highway  that  supported  a  sprinkling  of  busi-  nesses  that  had  been  thrown  up  in  the  last  few  years  where  there  had  once  been  endless  jack-pine  forest.  There  were  still  patches  of  forest  here  and  there,  but  as  one  drove  along  one  saw  the  high  domes  of  oil-storage  tanks  among  the  trees,  and  sometimes  whole  vistas  of  new,  barracklike  hous-  ing  opened  out.  There  was  a  turmoil  about  the  landscape,  as  if  it  might  all  turn  into  a  single  giant  shopping  center  by  morning.  Mary  walked  into  the  orange,  var-  nished-log  building.  In  the  dining  room  there  was  one  table,  over  by  the  win-  dow,  that  didn't  have  chairs  placed  on  top  of  it.  A  youngish  man  with  sandy  hair  came  out  of  the  kitchen,  opening  his  palms  in  an  apologetic  gesture.  &quot;I'm  Fran's  partner,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  can't  shake  hands,  I'm  baking-but  at  least  I  set  up  someplace  for  you  two  to  sit.&quot;  They  both  looked  out  the  window  next  to  the  table.  &quot;I'm  feeding  bears  out  there,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;This  time  of  year,  sometimes  three  or  four  come  lumbering  up.&quot;  &quot;Bears-shmears!&quot;  a  cheerful  voice  said  behind  them.  It  was  Fran.  Long  ago,  he  and  Mary  had  gone  to  school  together,  in  Du-  luth.  Looking  at  him  now,  in  the  shadowy  restaurant,  Mary  could  see  that  he  had  changed  less  than  she  had  in  the  past  fifteen  years.  He  still  had  the  undeniably  comely  looks  and  extro-  verted  expression  that  had  never  caught  her  interest  when  she  was  a  girl.  The  basis  of  their  friendship  was  not  their  few  dances  together  at  the  Northland  Country  Club  in  the  summers  but  their  nerveless  and  violently  competitive  dinghy  racing  at  the  Duluth  Yacht  Club,  on  Lake  Superior.  They  had  both  won  a  lot  of  races,  and  Fran  had  probably  beaten  her  a  few  more  times  than  she  had  beaten  him;  43616e616461Guard  had  had  to  bring  them  in  out  of  trouble  more  times  than  all  the  other  Duluth  sailors  put  together.  &quot;I  see  you've  introduced  your-  selves,&quot;  Fran  said  now  with  his  old  grace.  &quot;Mary's  an  old  friend-and  a  great  sailor,  too.&quot;  He  sat  down;  Mary  sat  down.  Fran's  partner  hovered  for  a  moment,  and  he  and  Mary  exchanged  a  glance.  They  hadn't  introduced  themselves  at  all,  and  now  Fran  was  still  talking  about  sailing  in  the  old  days.  Mary  un-  derstood  that  he  was  probably  being  extra  gregarious  in  order  to  assure  her  that  even  if  they  were  meeting  on  busi-  ness  he  did  not  discount  his  old  asso-  ciation  with  her.  He  was  trying  to  less-  en  the  tension  of  one  person  being  there  to  sell  the  other  one  something-tell-  ing  her  that  he  knew  she  was  not  trad-  ing  in  an  old  acquaintance  for  com-  mercial  use-or  that  if  she  was,  he  was  not  offended.  &quot;I  still  say  there's  nowhere  you  get  that  sense  of  reality  that  you  do  sail-  ing,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Hiked  way  out  over  the  side-close  to  the  water  like  that-  you're  touching  down  on  reality....  But  why  should  I  tell  that  to  you,  of  all  people?&quot;  &quot;I  haven't  sailed  in  years  now,&quot;  Mary  said  with  a  smile.  She  noticed  that  Fran  immediately  looked  away  when  she  said  this,  the  way  rich  people  sometimes  do  when  they  are  afraid  that  a  friend  is  about  to  explain  that  he  has  had  to  retrench.  Fran's  partner  wandered  back  into  his  kitchen,  and  Mary  and  Fran  began  to  talk  business.  From  time  to  time,  as  they  discussed  orders  and  discounts,  she  heard  the  baker  slapping  dough  in  the  kitchen.  &quot;There  won't  be  any  plastics,&quot;  Fran  said.  &quot;Strictly  good  things,  What  " b"we're  dealing  with  here  is  the  guilty  father.  The  children  have  been  with  him  all  weekend,  say,  and  now  it's  Sunday  afternoon,  late,  and  they've  been  cross  and  that  made  Aim  cross  and  he  got  sharp  with  them,  but  he  doesn't  want  to  deliver  them  back  to  their  mother  with  them  remembering  that,  so  he  stops  in  at  Ye  Olde  61,  and  buys  them  these  very  good  toys.  It'll  work,  Mary.  When  the  kids  get  home,  the  mother  turns  over  the  toys,  looking  at  the  labels,  checking  to  see  if  they're  just  strictly  [REDACTED],  but  Ye  Olde  61  toys  won't  be  [REDACTED]-so  Dad  will  end  up  way  ahead.  O.K.!  Let's  see  what  you  have,  Mary.  One  of  my  real  resources  is  what  you  are.&quot;  She  showed  him  drawings  and  de-  scriptions  and  Polaroid  pictures  of  her  work.  She  saw  he  could  tell  that  the  things  she  had  made  were  really  first  class-especially  the  French  town  house,  with  its  blue-green  mansard  roof  and  the  tiny  sign  painted  on  the  smudgy  cream  outside  wall:  &quot;D\xc3\xa9fense  d'  Afficher  par  la  Loi  de  1881.&quot;  Fran  laughed.  &quot;We  need  a  tiny  wooden  toy  dog  out  there  peeing  on  that  lamppost,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It  would  be  a  great  selling  point.  The  French  are  great  on  peeing.&quot;  The  moment  Fran  said  this,  Mary  knew  he  was  going  to  cheat  her  clean.  In  the  next  few  minutes,  he  did  make  an  unfair  consignment  offerfor  her  major  toys,  and  said  he  would  not  handle  the  small  ones.  &quot;What  you  really  need  are  stuffed  animals  made  with  art  fabrics,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Or,  you  know-that  quilted  sculpture.  Can  you  come  up  with  a  line  of  that?&quot;  &quot;Kids  hate  those  art  toys,&quot;  Mary  said.  &quot;Yes,  but  they're  very  countercul-  ture-looking,  and  that's  in,&quot;  Fran  said.  He  glanced  out  the  window.  &quot;Hey,  one  of  your  bears  has  come  in!&quot;  he  shouted  toward  the  kitchen.  The  baker  hurried  in  and  bent  over  their  table  to  look  out  the  window.  His  arms,  sanded  all  over  with  whole-  wheat  flour,  were  very  near  Mary's  face.  Mary  and  Fran  and  the  baker   watched  a  huge  bear  moving  things  around  outside,  lifting  garbage,  study-  ing  it.  ''They're  like  dancers,  compared  to  how  dogs  move,&quot;  offered  the  baker.  After  a  while,  Mary  got  up.  &quot;I'll  get  back  to  you  on  the  consignments,&quot;  she  said  to  Fran.  &quot;Remember,  [REDACTED];  he  said.  &quot;This  is  big.  The  guilty  fathers,  the  classy  toys,  the  grimy,  whining  kids  wanting  something.  And  don't  forget  to  glue  a  dog  onto  the  French  apartment-  building  one.  And  how  about  a  trade-  mark,  like  La  Vraie  Chose.  That  could  be  your  mark,  Mary-La  Vraie  Chose  on  all  your  toys.  It's  a  terrific  idea!&quot;  She  smiled.  He  wasn't  mistaken.  It  was  a  sound  idea;  his  shop  was  a  sound  idea,  As  she  drove  home,  she  felt  so  low-spirited  that  she  forgot  she  was  secretly  celebrating,  last  night  and  to-  day,  and  was  not  going  to  be  sad.  ACK  in  Rachel  River,  she  had  one  more  appointment.  She  drove  to  Vision  Avenue  Senior  Citizen  Apartments,  where  Mr.  Dahle,  the  manager,  said  it  was  nice  of  her  to  come  on  time  because  it  made  him  just  so  nervous  when  people  weren't  punctual.  He  expect-  ed  punctuality  of  himself,  he  said;  he  expected  it  of  others.  &quot;''The  problem  is  Lorraine,  your  mother-in-law,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Or  should  I  still  call  her  your  mother-in-law?&quot;  &quot;I  guess  she  still  is  my  mother-in-law,&quot;  Mary  told  him.  &quot;It's  been  five  months  since  the  rent  was  paid,&quot;  Mr.  Dahle  said,  holding  his  palms  upward.  &quot;Now,  I  have  dis-  cussed  with  Mrs.  Graving-  Lorraine-would  she  go  on  welfare.  That  is  a  practical  move,  you  know,  and  there  is  no  disgrace  to  it.  She  told  me  her  son  Cordell  would  pay  the  rent.  I  said,  'Well,  he  hasn't  paid  it  for  five  months  now.'  Then  she  said  I  was  lying  and  trying  to  cheat  an  old  woman  out  of  the  rent,  and  she  would  call  Cordell  and  he  would  drive  over  from  Pike  Lake  and  show  me  a  thing  or  two.  So  I  said,  'Well,  you  might  as  well  call  him,  because  if  he  comes  inI  can  ask  him  in  person  will  he  pay  the  rent  or  not.'  Then  she  grabs  her  Gold  Star  flag  off  the  win-  dow  and  shakes  it  at  me  the  " b" and  says,  'You  see  this  Gold  Star?  If  you  treat  me  wrong  there's  a  lot  of  peo-  ple  who  are  going  to  remember  what  this  stands  for,  and  they  won't  like  it.'  I  told  her  I  am  not  treating  her  wrong,  I  am  trying  to  get  the  rent  paid  is  all.&quot;  &quot;Pll  go  up,&quot;  Mary  said.  Her  mother-in-law,  Lorraine  Graving,  was  crouched  by  the  win-  dow,  lifting  the  Gold  Star  flag  up  so  she  could  see  out.  She  was  stooped  but  full  of  spring.  &quot;Ooh,  did  you  see  that!&quot;  the  old  lady  said.  &quot;My,  but  there's  a  fight  go-  ing  on  down  there!  Look  at  that-that  grown  woman  grabbed  that  boy's  bike  and  threw  it  right  down  on  the  sidewalk!  Crazy!  And  she's  left  her  car  parked  right  out  in  the  middle  of  the  street!&quot;  She  turned  and  looked  at  Mary.  &quot;Je,  I  know  why  you're  here,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Now,  you  lis-  ten  to  me.  I'm  not  letting  that  Dahle  push  me  around,  and  I'm  not  going  to  let  you  push  me  around.  You  never  gave  Cordell  the  least  bit  of  love  and  support.  I  always  helped  him  and  he  al-  ways  said,  'Mama,  I'm  going  to  take  care  of  you  when  you're  old..  Well,  now  I'm  old  and  he  is  taking  care  of  me.  He  was  always  an  affectionate  boy,  Cordell  was.  I  can't  say  the  same  for  his  brother  Emmitt,  Emmitt's  the  boy  I  lost.  I  don't  suppose  you  ever  met  Emmitt.  During  the  war,  you  know  how  people  went  around  showing  you  all  the  letters  they  got  from  their  sons,  with  those  A.P.O.  numbers,  and  reading  you  the  letters,  too?  Well,  we  never  got  any  from  Emmitt-not  a  one.  He  seemed  to  be  just  as  glad  to  be  away  from  home.  We  was  running  forty  head  of  cattle  in  those  days,  and  they  never  took  both  boys  off  a  farm.  One  would  get  drafted,  one  could  stay  home.  So  I  said  to  Em-  mitt  right  out,  (Emmitt,  you  better  be  the  one  to  go,  you're  always  so  restless  anyway,  driving  around  fast  cars,  and  all.&quot;  I  told  him  a  good  joke  that  I  thought  would  make  him  have  a  sense  of  humor  about  it.  I  told  him,   'Join  the  Navy  and  See  the  World'  &quot;  Mrs.  Graving  paused  to  let  Mary  laugh,  but  Mary  was  hung  over  and  had  laughed  at  jokes  all  night  at  the  V.EF.W.  Lounge,and  a  childhood  friend  had  tried  to  skin  her  in  business,  and  she  decided  she  didn't  have  to  get  up  a  laugh.  &quot;Anyway,&quot;  her  mother-in-law  went  on,  &quot;he  may  not  have  had  much  sense  of  humor  about  going  into  the  Navy,  but  he  really  enjoyed  it  once  he  got  in.  He  must  have,  because  he  never  wrote  any  homesick  letters.  He  didn't  ever  write  at  all.  Home  never  meant  anything  to  him,  like  it  did  to  Cordell.  Cordell  always  had  more  plans,  anyway.  Dad  and  I  helped  him.  We  helped  him  buy  all  that  lake  frontage  and  that  resort  in  [REDACTED]  that  you  were  so  set  on  having.&quot;  &quot;I  never  heard  of  any  [REDACTED]  resort,&quot;  Mary  said.  &quot;I'm  tired  of  people  lying  to  me,&quot;  Mrs.  Graving  said.  &quot;First  that  man-  ager,  Dahle,  and  now  you.  We  paid  all  your  doctor  bills,  too.  All  them  bills,  and  there  was  never  anything  the  matter  with  you  that  I  could  see.&quot;  &quot;I  never  had  any  doctoring  bills,&quot;  Mary  said.  &quot;I  never  went  to  a  doctor,  except  for  when  the  children  came.  You're  probably  thinking  of  Cordell's  ulcer  treatment.&quot;  &quot;I  gave  my  son,&quot;  Mrs.  Graving  said  conclusively.  OUTSIDE  the  glass  doors  of  the  Vision  Avenue  Apartments,  Mrs.  Blatke  and  Gregsy  Hanson,  who  had  once  been  a  Faith  Lutheran  Church  Release  Time  student  of  Mary's,  were  shouting  at  each  other  on  the  side-  walk.  Mr.  Dahle,  the  building  man-  ager,  stood  by,  wringing  his  hands.  An  interested  circle  of  elderly  resi-  dents  had  gathered.  They  murmured  &quot;Ohh!&quot;  and  &quot;Goodness!&quot;  from  time  to  time.  &quot;Oh,  hi,  Mrs.  Graving,&quot;  Gregsy  said,  breaking  off.  &quot;Oh,  so  it's  &quot;Hi,  Mrs.  Graving,&quot;  is  it?&quot;  Mrs.  Blatke  screeched.  &quot;But  when  I  want  to  park  my  car  in  the  parking  place,  he  won't  move  his  damned  bike.  Well,  I'm  asking  you,  'Mrs.  Graving,&quot;  since  he  seems  to  like  you  so  much,  who  is  that  boy?  I'm  calling  the  police.&quot;  &quot;Yeah,  and  I  won't  tell  you,&quot;  Mary  heard  herself  saying.  &quot;You  going  to  take  up  for  some  kid  who  busted  one  of  my  headlights,  " b"are  you?  You  going  to  take  up  for  some  kid  against  me?&quot;  Mary  said  to  herself,  &quot;I  might  as  well  get  into  a  fight  as  not.  I  really  might  as  well.&quot;  &quot;He's  a  friend  of  mine,&quot;  she  said  aloud.  Then  she  said,  &quot;You  owe  him  an  apology,  too.&quot;  She  watched  the  woman's  wrath  with  satisfaction.  &quot;Apology?  Apology?  Me  apologize  to  that  crummy  kid?&quot;  &quot;You  threw  his  bike  down  on  the  sidewalk,&quot;  Mary  said.  &quot;I  saw  you.&quot;  &quot;Well,  did  you  see  what  he  done  to  my  car?&quot;  It  was  bad.  Gregsy  Hanson  or  some-  body  had  thrown  a  stone  right  into  the  left  front  headlight.  For  some  reason-from  pure  force  and  accuracy,  probably-the  stone  was  still  stuck  in  the  shiny  reflector  of  the  light.  &quot;You  tell  me  this  kid's  name,  or  I'l}  call  the  police!&quot;  cried  Mrs.  Blatke.  &quot;They'll  make  you  tell.&quot;  &quot;'They  won't  make  me  do  any-  thing,&quot;  Mary  said.  Suddenly  she  felt  very  hung  over.  She  said,  &quot;Maybe  your  other  headlight  will  get  busted  by  somebody.&quot;  &quot;Ladies!  Ladies!&quot;  cried  Mr.  Dahle,  grasping  one  earlobe  desperately.  &quot;Please-I'  ve  called  the  police-they'll  be  here-please,  please!  Here  they  come  now!&quot;  It  was  Merle  Schaefer.  Mrs.  Blatke  ran  over  to  his  police  car  and  shouted  that  Mrs.  Graving  had  just  threatened  to  break  one  of  her  headlights  and  that  kid  there  had  already  busted  the  other  one.  &quot;What  kid  is  that,  then?&quot;  Merle  inquired,  getting  out  of  the  car  lan-  guidly.  The  three  of  them  turned  and  saw  Gregsy  Hanson  now  pedalling  up  Vi-  sion  Avenue,  away.  from  them,  and  throwing  rolled-up  copies  of  the  Du-  luth  Herald  at  doorways  as  he  went.  &quot;And  anyway,  she's  crazy!&quot;  Mrs.  Blatke  shouted,  pointing  at  Mary.  &quot;I  know  she's  crazy  because  she  goes  and  visits  them  people  at  the  Lutheran  Social  Service  on  Thursdays.  Every-  body's  seen  her.&quot;  Merle  looked  at  Mary  thoughtfully  and  then  he  turned  to  Mrs.  Blatke.  &quot;Funny-I  already  told  you,  just  to-  day,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  don't  call  a  police-  man,  remember?  You  forget  awful  quick,  Mrs.  Blatke.  Now,  you  listen  to  me.  When  you  get  home  this  after-  noon  and  you  see  a  big  ape  there,  two  storeys  high,  and  this  big  ape  climbs  in  your  living-room  window  and  swipes  your  TV  and  then  it  goes  in  your  re-  frigerator  and  eats  everything  you  got  there,  including  the  ice  cubes,  you  don't  call  a  cop!  You  understand  that,  now?  You  will  get  me  in  trouble  yet.&quot;  Mr.  Dahle  now  held  up  his  hands  in  a  position  exactly  like  the  framed  &quot;Praying  Hands&quot;  picture  that  hung  in  his  office.  &quot;I  think  we  can  all  go  back  in  now,&quot;  he  said  in  a  high,  gentle  voice.  &quot;I  think  the  show  is  over.&quot;  He  giggled.  OBODY  who  came  to  the  Faith  Lutheran  Church  to  see  a  coun-  sellor  or  therapist  on  Thursdays  parked  their  car  in  the  church  parking  lot.  They  parked  acrossthe  street  by  the  hospital,  at  the  &quot;Visitors&quot;  sign,  and  then  walked  over  to  the  church.  It  didn't  do  any  good.  Everyone  knew  exactly  who  had  nerves  and  who  was  crazy  in  Rachel  River.  It  didn't  matter  about  the  wives  of  Duluth  Airbase  per-  sonnel;  noone  cared  if  they  were  crazy  or  not.  But  everyone  knew  ex-  actly  who  the  others  were.  Anyone  who  " b"used  the  visiting  psychotherapeutic  services  offered  once  a  week  by  Lu-  theran  Social  Service  was  crazy  or  nervous.  If  they  had  a  decent  job,  they  had  nerves;  if  they  were  on  wel-  fare,  they  were  crazy.  Mary  Graving  was  just  nerves,  they  guessed.  Now  Mary  sat,  facing  north,  in  the  Sunday-school  room  where  she  had  taught  Release  Time  Religion,  years  before.  The  window  faced  the  forest,  where  there  were  still  wild  animals  living.  One  spring,  twenty  years  ago  or  more,  when  men  who  had  come  back  from  one  war  or  another  still  felt  purposeful  when  they  were  gathered  in  groups,  someone  in  town  had  spread  it  around  that  you  would  get  a  bounty  if  you  went  into  those  woods  and  brought  out  two  fox's  feet.  All  that  summer,  people  killed  foxes;  there  was  near  and  distant  firing  almost  every  day,  and  traps  set  everywhere.  Men  referred  to  the  animals-as  people  always  do,for  some  reason,  when  they  intend  to  kill  a  lot  of  them-in  the  collective.  &quot;There's  a  lot  of  fox  in  there,&quot;  they  remarked  to  each  other  on  Main  Street.  &quot;A  lot  of  fox  and  some  bear,  but  not  so  much  bear  as  fox,&quot;  instead  of  saying  &quot;a  lot  of  foxes  and  some  bears.&quot;  &quot;I  want  to  tell  you  something,&quot;  Mary  said  to  Jack,  the  therapist  she  saw  every  Thursday.  &quot;But  before  I  tell  you  that,  thinking  of  bears-out  there-reminds  me  of  something  else  I'l]  tell  you.&quot;  She  told  the  therapist  rapidly  about  the  young  man  baking  bread  in  the  Ye  Olde  61.  She  described  his  strong  elbows  and  his  arms,  how  they  smelled  of  whole-wheat  flour,  and  how  he  braced  them  strongly  on  the  table  so  they  were  next  to  her  face,  while  they  all  looked  out  the  window  at  a  bear.  She  told  how  she  had  sat  there  talking  business  with  the  other  man,  and  this  man  had  come  and  leaned  over  their  table,  and  how  all  of  a  sudden  there  was  this  tremendous,  irresponsible,  un-  accountable,  absolutely  unforeseeable  desire,  all  because  of  this  man  leaning  over  while  they  looked  at  the  bear.  She  told  Jack  how  they  all  looked  at  the  bear,  which  wasn't  really  that  inter-  esting  but  they  quit  talking  and  watched  it,  and  then  suddenly  this  man  with  his  arms  covered  with  bread  dough-a  man  whose  name  she  didn't  even  know-said,  &quot;Do  you  see  how  when  a  bear  moves  it  is  more  like  danc-  ing  than  when  a  dog  moves?&quot;  &quot;Well,&quot;  Mary  said  now,  &quot;well,  when  he  said  that-  Well,  the  way  he  said  it-  Well  ...&quot;  She  went  on  ex-  plaining,  failing  to  explain  it.  &quot;That  part  about  the  bear,&quot;  she  said  at  last,  &quot;that  dancing-that  finished  me  off  !&quot;  They  both  laughed,  but  then  the  therapist  waited,  deliberately  making  a  pause  too  serious  to  be  filled  with  conversations  about  bears.  &quot;Well-and  then  I  lied  to  you  last  week,&quot;  Mary  said,  &quot;And  this  is  what  I  am  celebrating.  I  told  you  I  would  not  commit  suicide  because  of  the  chil-  dren.  That  is  not  the  reason  I  won't  commit  suicide!  I  was  wrong.  I  won't  do  it  because  of  this  thing  I  am  cele-  brating.  You  see,  I  thought  all  life  was  of  the  creature,  life  of  the  body,  and  I  felt  I  am  dead  in  my  body-yet  I  am  not  dead.  So  therefore  I  thought  I     " b"would  do  a  test.  I  would  see  if  life  is  all  life  of  the  body  or  not.  So  I  took  nearly  all  the  week  and  went  back  over,  in  my  memory,  all  the  body  life  I  have  ever  had.  I  went  back  over  how  it  was  with  every  man  I  could  remem-  ber-well,  at  least,  every  time  I  could  remember!&quot;  This  explanation  seemed  grandiose,  and  Mary  became  anxious  because  she  knew  that  patients  waste  half  the  time  in  sexual  bragging,  so  she  said,  &quot;I  went  over  some  of  the  times,  anyway,  and  I  made  myself  remember  everything,  justas  if  it  were  now.  I  went  through  the  births  of  the  children  all  over  again.  Exactly  as  if  it  were  happening  now.  I  remembered  every  detail  of  the  labor  and  the  delivery-and  oh,  after  the  delivery!-of  both  children,  and  of  beginning  to  nurse  them  in  the  hospi-  tal,  and  singing  to  them.  'Annie  Laurie'  I  sang-not  the  first  verse,  which  is  dumb,  but  the  other  two-re-  membering  to  sing  very  quietly  because  you  can  tell  a  baby's  ears  are  not  yet  spoiled  by  bad  sounds.  You  can  tell  by  that  nearly  mashed,  delicate-looking  way  the  ears  lie  close  to  their  heads.  The  way  they  lie  mashed  back  against  their  heads  like  that,  you  can  tell  they  have  heard  only  the  most  wonderful  sounds,  like  sounds  from  under  water.  ...  So  I  went  back  over  all  that,  and  it  was  awfully  sad.  My  God,  it  was  sad.  But  it  was  not  what  I  was  griev-  ing  for.  It  wasn't!  &quot;I  felt  sorry  for  myself  and  for     everyone  else  in  the  meantime,  because  if  it  is  physical  delights  we  live  for,  we  certainly  don't  get  to  spend  our  time  in  very  nice  places,  We  are  always  working  in  the  basement,  or  drinking  in  the  V.F.W.,  or  washing  things  at  the  laundromat.  The  rich  are  the  only  ones  that  sail  on  beautiful  lakes-and  they  call  that  'touching  down  on  re-  ality.'  Just  yesterday,  someone  told  me  sailing  was  'touching  down  on  reali-  ty'  -and  all  the  while  he  was  skinning  me  clean  on  a  wholesale  offer!  Sud-  denly  I  realized  I  wasn't  staying  alive  for  my  children.  I  was  staying  alive  for  something  I  haven't  even  begun  to  do  yet.  So  I  stopped  being  altruistic  to  myself,  as  if  I  were  some  saint,  giving  myself  up  for  others.  And  I  stopped  thinking  my  life  would  be  so  different  if  only  I  could  live  in  a  cultivated  place.  Why  do  we  praise  children  when  they  are  willing  to  go  into  museums?  So  culture  is  nothing,  I  found  out  this  week-nothing.  It  isn't  why  we  live.  And  animal  life-all  that  body  stuff-  that  isn't  it,  either.  It  is  something  yet  to  do,  something  we're  supposed  to  be  doing  in  the  future!  But  that's  as  far  as  I've  got-I  haven't  looked  at  it  any  closer.  I  was  simply  so  excited  that  I  wasn't  going  to  die,  and  that  animal  life  is  not  all  there  is,  that  I  went  to  the  V.F.W.  Lounge  to  get  drunk  and  cele-  brate.  And  in  there  I  listened  to  the  men  talking.  They're  in  worse  shape  than  I  am,  even-they  thought  World  War  Two  was  sort  of  a  suit  of  armor,     Lepidopterist  and  now  they  don't  know  what  they  ought  to  be  doing.  Do  you  know  that  whenever  I  mention  World  War  Two  on  my  radio  program  five  or  ten  of  them,  in  this  one  little  town  alone,  call  me  up  and  tell  me  things  from  their  lives?  &quot;And  yet  I  had  a  terrible  day,  yes-  terday.  Because  I  didn't  know  what  life  will  be,  and  animal  life  has  been  taken  away,  and  then  even  the  new  life,  my  life  of  thinking  about  suicide,  was  taken  away.  I  was  so  empty  then.  I  was  horribly  empty!  So  I  got  into  a  coarse  street  quarrel  with  a  woman  over  a  little  boy.  When  he  called  me  up  later  and  said,  'Thank  you  for  standing  up  for  me,'  it  was  as  if  some-  body  who  was  not  anybody  had  stood  up  for  him.  I  was  simply  emptied.&quot;  &quot;But  this  week?&quot;  Jack  said.  &quot;What  about  the  suicide?&quot;  &quot;It's  gone,&quot;  Mary  said.  &quot;But,  do  you  know,  I  used  to  make  special  toys  forthe  children-I  still  do.I  am  mak-  inga  bookcase  with  a  secret  compart-  ment.  When  I  was  sewing  for  them,  or  building  something,  I  used  to  think,  Well,  then  this  is  life.  And  I  was  wrong  about  that,  too.  Life  forothers  isn't  anything,  either.  Just  as  the  rich  are  mistaken  in  thinking  there  is  reali-  ty  in  sailing,  the  rest  of  us  are  mistak-  en  in  thinking  there  is  reality  in  carpen-  try.  &quot;So  I  think  it  is  something  we  have  to  keep  an  eye  out  for-what  we're  supposed  to  do,  why  to  stay  alive.  Do  you  sail,  ever?  Well,  if  you  know  small  boats  you  know  about  keeping  an  eye  out  for  the  darker  place  on  the  water  to  windward,  because  the  darker  place,  which  keeps  getting  close,  is  what  tells  you  how  to  trim  differently....  Well,  that's  enough!&quot;  She  stopped.  Her  facial  tic  reap-  peared  now,  and  she  controlled  it.  &quot;But  it  is  wonderful,  wonderful,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;to  come  here  and  tell  you  depressing  stuff.  Every  day,  I  am  cheerful  on  the  radio,  and  people  come  up  to  me  in  Ben  Franklin's  and  say,  'Oh,  you  cheer  us  up  so  on  the  radio!  And  my  friends  who  are  happily  mar-  ried  come  up  and  say,  'You  do  a  ter-  rific  job  of  taking  on  that  toy  busi-  ness  so  cheerfully!&quot;  We  must  be  living  in  the  most  cheerful-minded  century  in  the  history  of  the  world,  even  though  the  sheriff  says  the  whole  race  is  uniquely  filthy!&quot;  Mary  and  the  therapist  both  laughed,  and  then  they  did  serious  work  for  the  remainder  of  the  session.  She  was  not  allowed  then  to  divert  from  this  serious  work  by  telling  stories  about  coarse  women,  or  any  of  the  other  supposed  facts  of  her  life.  "