 b"MOTHER  and  Father  seldom  hear  M  from  the  children.  Their  daughter,  living  alone  in  Asia,  writes  letters  in  a  calligraphy  so  beau-  tiful  that  they  have  stopped  having  them  translated.  Instead,  Mother  lami-  nates  them  for  use  as  placemats.  The  graceful  characters  enhance  the  irregu-  lar  swirls  of  spilled  gravy,  the  random  drips  of  coffee.  And  the  twins,  who  recently  swapped  spouses  and  are  fight-  ing  over  custody  of  their  children,  rare-  ly  call.  Home  remains  quiet.  Mother  and  Father  never  were  great  talkers  and  they  still  aren't;  they  keep  busy  in  oth-  er  ways.  Mother  continues  to  knit  her  afghan  for  the  children-each  knitted  row  another  line  of  a  sad,  undelivered  letter  that  has  long  since  grown  out  of  the  sewing  room  and  lies  in  neat  folds  along  the  sides  of  the  hall.  Father  con-  tinues  to  repair  the  abandoned  toys,  remembering  with  amusement  how  the  twins  would  insist  on  identical  toys  and  how  they  would  always  break  them  in  the  same  way.  Now  the  old  playroom  seems  like  a  convalescent  home,  where  fewer  and  fewer  visitors  come.  Waiting  for  the  return  of  something  they  perhaps  can't  name,  Mother  and  Father  keep  the  curtains  open  in  the  evenings  and  all  the  lights  on.  Some-  times  they  stand  togeth-  er  at  the  bay  window  and  stare  out  at  an  im-  penetrable  darkness-a  darkness  like  a  photo-  graphic  negative,  which  reflects  back  their  lone-  ly,  peering  faces.  Lately,  the  light  bulbs  have  begun  to  go  out  in  an  unpredictable  and  alarming  way-in  the  study,  over  the  stairwell,  in  the  middle  of  a  recipe  in  the  kitch-  en.  Some  nights,  Moth-  er  and  Father  have  to  stalk  from  room  to  room,  fresh  bulbs  in  hand,  seeking  to  trans-  form  every  dim  corner.  From  the  outside,  their  home  seems  to  have  a  nervous  blink.  Father  finds  himself  attracted  to  the  sound  of  the  bulbs  as  they  go  out-some  with  a  kind  of  smoky  burst,  some  with  a  faint,  regretful  pop.  It's  as  if  they  all  had  their  own  secret  BULBS  reasons  for  leaving.  He  also  can't  avoid  noticing  the  way  the  old  bulbs  fit  into  the  palm  of  his  hand  like  the  warm  head  of  an  infant.  Father  keeps  this  to  himself.  He  has  begun  to  spend  more  of  his  time  at  night  watching  the  lights  and  less  with  Mother  at  the  bay  window.  Father  stands  in  the  hallway,  peering  around  a  bookcase,  waiting  for  a  room  to  be  enveloped  in  darkness.  When  it  happens,  he  untwists  the  bulb  and  listens  to  the  death  rattle  of  its  tiny  filament.  He  stares  at  its  pale  face,  dimly  lit  from  the  next  room,  and  notes  the  smudgy  bruise  on  its  forehead:  a  fatal  inner  injury.  Then  he  holds  the  bulb  up  to  his  ear  in  an  attempt  to  hear  any  last  words.  Mother  watches  him  from  a  corner.  She  follows  him  from  room  to  room.  She  notices  how  he  replaces  each  used  bulb  with  a  fresh  one  from  his  sup-  ply.  &quot;Soon,&quot;  she  murmurs  to  herself,  &quot;all  the  lights  in  the  house  will  be  his.&quot;  One  night,  when  Father  returns  to  the  bay  window,  Mother  isn't  there.  He  calls  her  name,  but  there  is  no  answer.  Almost  without  knowing  it,  he  feels  a  satisfaction  slipping  away  inside  him.  He  hurries  down  the  halls,  peer-  ing  into  every  doorway.  There,  in  the  bedroom,  standing  on  a  chair,  replacing  a  ceiling  light  with  one  of  her  own,  is  Mother.  &quot;What  are  you  doing?&quot;  Father  cries  out.  &quot;I  don't  trust  your  light  bulbs,&quot;  she  replies.  After  this,  Mother  and  Father  avoid  each  other.  They  brood  in  separate  rooms,  each  of  them  alone  with  a  single  lamp  and  its  sympathetic  light.  Quietly,  without  formal  declaration,  they  agree  to  split  the  house  between  them.  Father  claims  the  study,  the  guest  room,  the  twins'  bedroom,  the  playroom,  the  base-  ment,  and  half  ofthe  hallways.  Mother  claims  the  master  bedroom,  their  daugh-  ter's  bedroom,  the  dining  room,  the  liv-  ing  room,  the  attic,  and  the  other  half  of  the  hallways.  The  bathrooms  are  dis-  puted  and  the  kitchen  is  neutral.  Days  pass  and  the  mail  accumulates.  Bills,  catalogues,  and  even  a  beautiful  letter  from  overseas  lie  unopened  on  the  kitchen  table.  Father  spends  his  afternoons  in  the  basement,  where  he  attempts  to  repair  the  broken  bulbs.  The  useless  vacuum,  the  trapped  fila-  ment,  the  untouchable  interior  all  serve  to  hold  him  at  bay.  When  he  inspects  his  rooms  in  the  evenings,  he  half  hopes  he  won't  find  still  another  lifeless  bulb  to  add  to  his  defeats.  Mother  continues  to  knit.  When  a  bulb  dies  with  a  silent  sigh  in  one  of  her  rooms  she  rushes  to  it  with  open  palms,  unscrews  it,  and  then  carries  it  to  the  afghan,  which  now  lie  along  her  side  of  the  hallway.  Her  sad,  used  bulbs  are  tucked  under  the  folds  of  the  blanket,  with  the  names  she  has  painted  on  their  fore-  heads:  Buzzy,  Janet,  Spencer,  Darlene,  Kev-  in,  Tia-names  she  al-  ways  wanted  to  give  to  children  she  never  had.  Now  Mother  places  the  latest-Charles-  under  the  warm  fold.  When  she  tucks  him  in,  he  stays  tucked:  a  little  sleeper  who  will  never  awake,.  FATHER,  far  from  content,  begins  to  plan  sabotage.  In  the  afternoons,  while  Mother  nods  over  her  latest  stretch  of  afghan,  Father  untwists  her  bulbs  slightly  in  the  sockets  until  they  go  " b"out.  Later,  drowsy  but  then  anxious,  she  hurries  to  replace  them,  not  notic-  ing  Father's  trick.  In  the  evening,  Father  switches  his  used  bulbs,  his  failed  patients,  for  the  good  ones  that  Mother  has  unwitting-  ly  laid  to  rest  under  the  blanket.  In  this  way,  Fa-  ther  begins  to  light  his  rooms  with  her  bulbs.  One  after-  noon  Mother  dreams  that  her  little  sleepers  are  rest,  less,  rattling  their  filaments  as  they  doze.  But  she  wakes  to  see  it  is  Father,  unscrewing  one  of  her  bulbs.  Mother  is  startled,  but  re-  mains  silent.  &quot;Soon,&quot;  she  whispers  to  herself,  no  longer  fooled,  &quot;all  the  bulbs  in  the  house  will  be  mine.&quot;  But  this  plan  fails  too.  When  lit,  Mother's  painted  bulbs  begin  to  melt  their  names,  which,  drop  by  drop,  gather  in  puddles  on  lamp  stands,  chairs,  and  rugs.  Father  stares  for  a  long  time  at  the  stains,  dif-  ficult  script  of  another  lan-  guage.  Though  disappoint-  ed,  Father  now  launches  further  raids  on  Moth-  er's  territory,  searching  for  broken  bulbs,  bulbs  without  names.  Mother,  her  half-closed  eyes  ever  alert,  keeps  watch  through  her  nap.  When  he  passes  down  the  hall,  she  lays  aside  her  knit-  ting  and,  bulbs  in  hand,  explores  his  dark  rooms.  Father  hears  her  light  footstep  overhead,  in  the  study.  Like  Mother,  he  now  begins  to  understand  that  each  bulb  could  be  a  friend  or  an  enemy.  Boundaries  disappear,  and  Father  and  Mother  enter  the  rooms  like  guerrillas,  ever  on  the  alert.  One  night,  the  light  in  the  playroom  goes  out,  and  Mother  and  Father  ar-  rive  there  at  the  same  instant,  through  different  doors.  Each  convinced  that  the  other  is  about  to  seize  the  dead  bulb  and  twist  it  from  its  socket,  they  circle  each  other  in  the  dark,  crushing  toy  soldiers  and  porcelain  dolls  under  their  feet.  Little  wooden  helmets  and  tiny,  unblinking  glass  eyes  roll  about  on  the  floor.  Mother  and  Father  try  to  step  around  these  as  they  tiptoe  si-  lently,  listening  for  the  dry  squeak  of  a  turning  bulb.  The  phone  rings.  Who  could  it  be?  One  of  the  twins?  Gripping  their  bulbs  tighter,  Mother  and  Father  each  wait  for  the  other  to  break  and  run  to  the     telephone.  Perhaps  it's  long  distance  from  their  daughter!  Both  Mother  and  Father  are  close  to  giving  in,  when  the  ringing  stops,  just  before  the  tenth  bell.  Mother  and  Father  stand  very  still,  facing  each  other,  eyes  now  ac-  customed  to  the  darkness.  The  bulb  above  them  waits  patiently  in  its  sock-  et.  They  each  take  two  steps  forward,  and  then,  without  speaking,  Father  lifts  Mother  up  and  she  replaces  their  bulb.  OW  Father  and  Mother  live  si-  lently  together.  They  have  dis-  connected  the  phone,  they  continue  to  leave  the  mail  unopened,  and  they  do  not  answer  the  doorbell.  Mother  and  Father  are  busy  with  their  bulbs.  Mother  knits  shades  for  all  the  lamps  in  the  house,  choosing  a  different  stitch  for  each-a  special  pattern  of  light  on  every  wall.  Father  builds  cabinets  to  hold  the  new  bulbs-a  honeycomb  of  unborn  lights.  Now  when  a  bulb  goes  out,  the  feeling  for  Mother  and  Father  is  bittersweet:  the  gift  of  light  has  given  way  to  the  gift  of  darkness.  When  the  bulb  over  the  dining-room  table  goes  off,  right  in  the  middle  of  dessert,  the  last  few  spoons  of  tapioca  seem  to  taste  better  in  the  dark.  Then  they  rise  and  take  that  bulb  slowly  o  ut  of  its  socket,  Mother  standing  on  a  chair  a  nd  Fa-  ther  holding  the  chair  steady.  They  place  t  he  still-warm  bulb  in  a  pot  holder  Mother  specially  knitted,  and  together  they  climb  the  stairs  to  the  attic.  Once  there,  they  open  a  large  hope  chest.  Even  in  the  dimne  ss  t  hey  can  see  rows  and  rows  of  bulbs  laid  to  rest.  Mo  ther  and  Father  stand  quietly  a  few  moments,  respecting  each  other's  tho  ught  s.  Then  they  car  efully  place  the  bul  b  with  its  companions.  The  new  ad-  dition  sends  a  stagger  ed  chorus  of  sym-  pathetic  clicks  throughout  the  rows  of  bulbs,  and  this  slight  song  is  heard  by  Mother  and  Father  long  after  they  close  the  hope  chest  and  descend  the  stair  s  to  their  brightly  li  t  rooms. "