 b"SATURN  is  now  much  closer  to  us   than  it  was  before  the  recent  fly-  by,  Looking  at  Saturn  now  is  like  looking  at  a  street  light  eight  thousand  blocks  away,  whereas  before  the  flyby  looking  at  Saturn  was  like  looking  at  a  street  light  sixteen  thousand  blocks  away.  Saturn  is  as  large  as  seven  hundred  and  fifty  earths  and  some  change.  It  has  thirty-three  moons-Lapidus,  Titian,  Methedrine,  Janis,  Mouli,  Insalata,  Urea,  Bob,  Studio,  Eor,  Choline,  Ar-  turo,  Tetley,  Acadia,  Maupintour,  Crayon,  Tertullian,  Abacus,  Gardol,  Amster,  Mingo,  Quart,  Trinitron,  Bilalian,  Pylon.  Let's  see  ...  Cretin,  Lachrymose,  Fido,  Runnymede.  [REDACTED],  Tertullian  II,  Cleon.  That's  it.  Let's  see  ...  thirty,  thirty-one,  thirty-two.  Oh,  yes-Leonia.  Thirty-three.  The  moons  range  in  size  from  Amster,  which  is  about  as  big  as  a  bladderball,  to  Ter-  tullian  II,  the  size  of  our  own  moon-  which,  incidentally,  still  takes  a  back  seat  in  comeliness  to  no  other  satellite  in  the  system.  There  has  been  a  nearly  Jacobin  de-  termination  by  scientists  to  give  each  of  Saturn's  moons  equal  attention,  but  it  can't  be  helped  if  some  of  them  seem  to  clamor  for  special  consideration.  Run-  nymede,  for  instance,  is  an  immense  ball  of  very  thick  rope,  and  during  the  fly-  E   by  a  picture  sent  back  of  this  baby  showed  thirty  or  forty  loose  ends,  some  of  them  more  than  a  thousand  miles  long,  trail-  ing  behind  it,  as  if  it  were  a  baseball  that  had  gone  through  a  doubleheader  without  its  cover.  Acadia  is  utterly  trans-  parent,  and  may  not  be  there  at  all.  Crayon  has  a  polar  orbit.  (All  the  others  have  equatorial  orbits,  and  it  looks  as  if  Crayon  will  smash  into  Lapidus,  Stu-  dio,  or  Janis  one  of  these  days.  So  far,  it  has  managed  to  sift  through  safely.)  Cleon  stops  dead  in  its  tracks  from  time  to  time.  Tetley  has  three  deep  creases  on  its  dark  side,  which  makes  it  look  astonishingly  like  a  forehead  furrowed  in  thought.  And  Arturo-a  great  fa-  vorite  with  many-is  emerald  in  hue  and  pulses  out  to  twice  its  normal  size  at  apogee.  Back  to  Saturn  proper  (though,  in  view  of  the  findings  about  the  planet  itself,  any  weakness  for  the  moons  is  understandable).  Saturn's  composition  is  the  usual-broken  chunks  of  cinder  block,  pottery  shards,  the  rotting  trunks  of  felled  oaks,  brown  creek  beds,  gigan-  tic  balls  of  dried  caulking,  and  Spackle  and  grout.  Old,  decomposing  cedar  shingles.  The  only  thing  not  predicted  was  the  thousands  of  round  red-brown  spots,  which  turned  out  to  be  the  heads  of  huge  rusty  nails,  or  spikes,  un-  evenly  spaced  all  over  the  planet  and driven  in  by  no  one  knows  who.  The  implication  of  agency  is  implied  with  confidence,  because  each  ofthe  nails  is  surrounded  by  random,  semicircular  indentations  just  like  the  ones  leftin  soft  wood  by  an  inept  carpenter.  The  head  of  each  nail  has  approximately  the  same  surface  area  as  Lake  Champlain,  and  it  seems  certain  that  they  are  nails,  of  some  sort,  because  their  shafts  rise  partway  out  of  the  ground  every  morn-  ing,  in  response  to  the  gravitational  pull  of  Saturn's  neighbor  [REDACTED],  as  if  in  yearning.  Saturn's  atmosphere  is  a  highly  cor-  rosive  cloud  cover  of  gasified  nickel  and  cesium  sublimate.  Human  teeth  would  evaporate  in  it  in  less  than  two  seconds.  From  outer  space  it  looks  like  a  cool,  nacreous  liquid,  but  in  fact  it  would  scald  away  a  mortal  and  his  sins  in  the  twinkling  of  an  eye.  If  you  stood  on  the  surface  of  Saturn  and  searched  the  thick,  gray  vault  above  you  for  some  sign  of  the  sun,  you  might  find  it  hanging  up  there  like  a  dull  dime  or  a  pearl  behind  smoked  glass,  but  it  is  far  more  likely  that  as  your  sins  and  teeth  melted  away  you  would  not  think  about  the  sun  at  all.  Up  close,  Saturn's  rings  have  proved  such  a  disappointment  that  it  might  have  been  wiser  to  shut  off  the  camera  while  the  spacecraft  punched  through  them.  Flaked  brass,  ashes,  hair,  lint,  floating  patches  of  sunburned  skin,  sawdust,  dandruff-every  kind  of  filth  and  de-  tritus  imaginable.  For  the  record,  there  are  five  rings-Ring  R  (the  one  closest  to  the  planet),  Ring  I,  Ring  N,  Ring  G,  and  Ring  S.  Only  Ring  G  is  in  any  way  remarkable;  itis  visible  from  [REDACTED]  for  a  single  week,  in  early  March.  Big  deal.  But  oh  the  beauty  and  solemnity  of  the  rings  from  afar-  the  symmetry,  the  balance,  the  proces-  sional  majesty,  the  inevitability,  the  monumentality,  the  silence!  \xe2\x80\x98N7HY  study  Saturn?  Because  it  emitsa  tremulous  C  in  the  mezzo  range  every  evening  at  seven  o'clock.  Because  you  know  itis  always  there  when  you  need  it.  Because  its  name  helps  you  remember  the  word  &quot;satur-  nine&quot;  in  the  middle  of  the  night.  Because  it  bears  down  on  a  high-  magnification  telescope  like  a  cement  truck,  Because  it  has  something  that  looks  like  a  watch  stem  sticking  out  of  its  north  pole.  Because  if  you  were  big  enough  to  try  to  pin  it  under  your  thumb  it  looks  as  if  it  would  slip  away  from  you  like  a  globule  of  quicksilver.  Because  itis  the  best  at  what  it  does.  Because  of  the  rings!   "