 b"THE  anxious  weeks  and  days  be-  fore  the  fall  of  Skylab  focussed  new  attention  on  the  age-old  problem  of  safety,  as  millions  scanned  the  skies,  dreading  the  descent  of  the  enor-  mous  deadly  object.  Many  scattered  tons  of  metal  chunks,  some  with  sharp  edges,  hurtling  earthward,  God  knows  where!  Most  of  us  must  have  been  reminded  that  danger  remains  [REDACTED]'s  No.  1  safety  problem,  and  perhaps  a  few  were  moved  to  check  their  own  homes  for  hazards,  for  although  some  dangers  can't  be  completely  eliminated-such  as  a  ton  of  lead  heated  red-hot  by  at-  mospheric  friction  dropping  out  of  a  clear  blue  sky  and  crushing  your  house  to  smithereens  and  leaving  only  ablack-  ened  hole  in  the  ground  for  &quot;Eyewit-  ness  News&quot;  to  show  where,  moments  before,  you  and  your  family  had  been  pursuing  leisure-time  activities-there  are  dangers  we  can  eliminate.  These  are  things  we  have  been  warned  against  time  and  time  again,  and  you  would  think  people  would  learn,  but  do  they?  No.  For  example,  the  number  of  persons  who  put  their  hands  on  hot  objects  annually  would  stagger  you.  &quot;Don't  touch  it,  it's  hot,&quot;  the  waitress  cautions  as  she  places  the  steaming  casserole  on  the  table,  and  what  do  people  do?  They  grab  hold.  Dumb?  You  bet,  and  yet  you  see  people  doing  dumb  things  every  day,  and  not  just  kids  either  but  men  and  women  with  college  degrees  earning  twenty-five  to  forty  thousand  dollars  per  year.  Item:  A  famous  physicist  whose  re-  search  is  so  advanced  that  only  two  other  persons  in  the  world  know  the  first  thing  about  it  walks  straight  out  into  traffic,  thinking  itis  &quot;smart&quot;  to  thread  his  way  among  speeding  cars  and  buses.  They  jam  on  their  brakes,  just  in  time,  or  heedlessly  continue  to  race  by,  only  inches  away  from  his  body!  Item:  A  famous  surgeon,  one  of  the  very  few  who  knows  the  human  brain  like  the  back  of  his  hand  and  can  go  in  there  and  cure  unheard-of  maladies  and  think  nothing  of  it,  places  a  skilled  hand  on  the  head  of  a  strange  dog-a  tiny  terrier,  but  even  small  degs  can  leap  high  in  the  air  if  their  instincts  are  aroused,  and  even  a  friend-  ly  pat  can  arouse  them.  &quot;Why,  he's  never  done  thet  before,&quot;  the  owner  says,  trying  to  pull  off  the  pet,  whose  jaws  are  clamped  on  Dr.  Thompson's  annular  ligament.  Item:  The  editors  of  a  famous  newspaper,  whose  pages  are  read  re-  ligiously  by  world  decision-makers  daily,  lean  across  a  conference  table  debating  an  important  editorial  that  might  have  far-reaching  effects-and  waving  sharp  copy  pencils  to  empha-  size  their  ideas,  as  if  they  were  toys!  They  aren't.  A  pencil  could  poke  somebody's  eye  out,  like  any  other  sharp  stick.  Yes,  many  people  don't  have  the  sense  that  God  gave  geese.  They  just  don't  have  both  oars  in  the  water.  Mil-  lions  of  man-hours  are  spent  worrying  about  the  one  chance  in  six  hundred  billion  that  immense  man-made  objects  will  fall  and  cream  you;  meanwhile,  thousands  of  people  wander  off  every  year  and  get  lost  in  deserted  areas.  Stay  with  the  group!  You  may  think  that  if  you  get  lost  a  major  search  will  be  mounted  immediately  by  the  Na-  tional  Guard,  using  the  latest  devices,  including  radar  and  infrared  sensing  scanners,  but  don't  count  on  it.  For  one  thing,  you  may  not  be  missed:  your  absence  may  not  be  noticed  for  days  or  weeks,  and  even  then  your  friends  will  figure,  &quot;Oh,  he'll  turn  up.  He  can  take  care  of  himself&quot;  -even  as  you  wander,  helpless  and  exposed,  perhaps  only  a  few  yards  from  a  road  or  a  house.  And  even  when  the  National  Guard  does  come,  it  doesn't  bring  sensing  devices.  These  are  needed  for  national  defense.  If  the  Guard  used  its  full  arsenal  of  devices  every  time  somebody  got  lost  in  this  country,  the  Russians  could  walk  right  up  Fifth  Avenue  without  a  shot  being  fired.  No,  the  National  Guard  in  this  situation  is  just  a  bunch  of  guys  beating  the  bushes  probably  miles  away  from  where  you've  wandered.  So  don't  wander!  Stay  put!  Of  course,  if  you  had  stayed  put,  you  wouldn't  have  got-  ten  lost  in  the  first  place.  So  (assuming  you  will  walk)  don't  walk  straight,  be-  cause  you  will  wind  up  walking  in  cir-  cles.  Bear  to  the  right.  Don't  eat  wild  plants,  roots,  berries,  etc.  People  have  been  told  a  thousand  times  not  to  put  strange  things  in  their  mouths,  and  yet  as  a  result  of  the  envi-  ronmental  movement  many  assume  that  anything  natural  is  good  and  won't  hurt  them.  The  best  rule  is:  Don't  eat  it.  If  you  do,  spit  it  out.  ATING  itself,  especially  fish,  is  a  danger  area  most  people  overlook  completely,  thinking,  I  won't  choke,  it  can't  happen  to  me.  And  yet  every  week  we  read  about  men  and  women  just  like  ourselves  dining  in  fancy  restaurants  and  choking,  which  should  be  a  lesson  to  " b"the  rest  of  us.  Indeed,  after  a  big  choke  scare  you  will  sometimes  see  restaurant  patrons  cut-  ting  their  food  into  smaller  pieces,  but  they  soon  forget,  and  some-  times  they  go  right  on  eating  big  forkfuls  even  as  fruitless  resuscitation  efforts  proceed  a  few  feet  away.  What  is  choking  like?  Those  who  have  experienced  it  describe  it  as  &quot;the  most  humili-  ating  thing  that  ever  happened  to  me.&quot;  There  they  are,  paying  good  money  for  this  food  and  having  a  wonderful  time,  talking  and  joking  with  close  associates,  when  sud-  denly,  still  laughing,  they  feel  the  last  bite  go  down  the  wrong  way.  Immediately,  they  sense  the  foolishness  of  the  situation-to  stran-  gle  on  your  own  hu-  mor!  -and  they  laugh  harder  and  turn  red  and  begin  to  die,  surrounded  by  people  who  politely  look  away.  Their  obituary  flashes  before  their  eyes:  GUY  CHOKES  ON  BEEF,  DIES  ON  FLOOR  Bystander  Attempts  Back-Pounding  Procedure,  But  to  No  Avail  ;  &quot;He  Was  a  Good  Eater,&quot;  Say  Victim's  Friends,  &quot;and  a  Great  Kidder&quot;  The  only  hope  is  that  Dr.  Henry  J.  Heimlich,  the  discoverer  of  the  famous  lifesaving  anti-choking  embrace,  will  be  dining  at  the  same  restaurant  and  will  come  running  over  and  perform  the  maneuver  on  the  spot.  To  be  hugged  from  behind  by  a  complete  stranger  while  you  lie  gagging  on  the  floor!  Is  it  worth  it?  How  much  better  to  be  smart  and  not  choke  at  all!  Remember,  then:  Eat  slowly,  take  small  bites,  and  don't  talk  with  food  in  your  mouth.  How  slowly?  Very  slowly,  say  experts.  You  don't  have  to  dawdle  or  pick  at  your  food,  but  do  chew  thor-  oughly.  Don't  &quot;wash  it  down&quot;  with  water.  Chew  it.  Twenty  times  is  a  good  rule  for  vegetables;  for  meat,  thirty  or  forty  is  more  like  it.  Fishbones  are  the  real  killers.  You  should  shred  the  fish,  remove  all  bones,  and  then  follow  each  bite  (small)  with  a  bite  of  potato  or  bread,  just  in  case.  Better  yet,  avoid  fish.  If,  inadvertently,  you  should  choke,  don't  panic.  Stay  where  you  are  and  ask  for  assistance.  Don't  jump  up  and  run.  This  puts  additional  strain  on  the  throat,  which  already  has  all  it  can  handle.  Running  itself  is  a  danger  area  often  pooh-poohed  in  the  cause  of  &quot;exercise&quot;  and  &quot;fitness,&quot;  and  yet  the  increase  in  running  is  leading  to  more  and  more  cases  of  (1)  tripping  over  things,  (2)  bumping  into  things,  and  (3)  falling  down.  Don't  run.  Walk.  Facts  show  that  walking  for  exercise  is  just  as  good  as  running  and  is  much  safer,  particularly  in  the  dark,  on  uneven  ground,  near  busy  streets,  or  in  the  house.  Never  run  in  the  house,  especially  if  you're  tall.  It's  just  plain  dumb.  And  yet  every  year  thousands  of  tall  persons  dash  headlong  into  low  doorways,  decora-  tive  overhangs,  and  light  fixtures.  Watch  where  you're  going.  Many  feel  it's  a  sign  of  shame  to  watch  their  feet  while  walking,  and  so  keep  their  eyes  straight  ahead  and  &quot;walk  tall.&quot;  They're  looking  for  trouble.  Some  falls  can't  be  prevented.  The  victim  is  standing  perfectly  still  and  then  suddenly-Zer  blem!-he's  flat  on  his  keister.  Researchers  say  this  may  be  due  to  a  disturbance  of  the  inner  ear  or  to  a  simple  lack  of  attention,  but  they  don't  really  know  for  sure.  Injury  can  be  minimized,  however,  by  keeping  the  feet  well  apart,  the  weight  well  balanced,  and  the  arms  slightly  extended  from  the  body.  A  few  falls Fenway.&quot;  are  caused  by  being  cross-eyed,  and  nothing  can  be  done  about  those,  either.  These  people  were  warned  about  cross-  ing  their  eyes  for  fun  while  in  school,  but  they  went  ahead  and  did  it  any-  way.  Now  they  will  just  have  to  live  with  it.  A  little  common  sense  is  our  major  weapon  against  danger.  'They  say  that  if  people  would  just  stop  and  think  the  chance  of  accidents  would  be  slashed  dramatically.  Perhaps  the  spectre  of  Skylab  hanging  over  our  heads  might  have  knocked  some  sense  into  people,  even  though  it  fell  harmlessly  into  the  Atlantic  and  Indian  Oceans  and  parts  of  [REDACTED],  but  probably  not.  Chances  are  you  read  this  magazine  article  in  very  poor  light.  You  knew  it  was  wrong  but  you  went  right  ahead  and  did  it  anyway.  What  can  I  tell  you  that  hasn't  been  said  a  thousand  times  before? "