 b"THE  other  evening,  I  was  rum-  maging  around  in  my  bureau  for  a  Belmont-style  celluloid  collar,  slightly  yellowed  by  age,  that  I  planned  to  wear  with  my  pongee  suit  and  a  lawn  tie  when  the  weather  got  warm-  er.  This  was  the  same  outfit  in  which  I  posed  for  J.  C.  Leyendecker  in  those  ads  he  drew  for  Kuppenheimer  and  for  Hart  Schaffner  &amp;  Marx;  you  probably  remember  me  also  as  his  Arrow-collar  model.  Anyhow,  during  my  search  I  pulled  the  bureau  away  from  the  wall  and  found  a  book  I'd  repeatedly  flung  there  in  exasperation  while  reading  it.  Its  title  was  &quot;James  Joyce:  A  Portrait  of  the  Artist,&quot;  by  Stan  G\xc3\xa9bler  Davies,  and  wild  horses-nay,  Percherons,  Clydesdales,  and  Suffolk  punches  yoked  together-will  not  persuade  me  to  con-  fess  my  lack  of  admiration  for  its  au-  thor.  Mr.  Davies,  a  Dubliner,  is  identi-  fied  in  a  biographical  note  as  born  in  1943  and  &quot;an  enthusiastic  Joycean  since  his  discovery  at  the  age  of  thirteen  of  an  illicit  copy  of  'Ulysses.&quot;  &quot;  (It  was  illicit  in  Ireland  at  the  time.)  Nowhere  in  his  book,  sad  to  say,  does  he  describe  his  euphoria  on  that  occasion,  so  we  can  only  imagine  him  cracking  his  knuckles  and  exclaiming  &quot;Hot  spit!&quot;  as  he  float,  ed  down  Molly  Bloom's  stream  of  con-  sciousness  in  the  final  chapter.  Curiously  enough,  it  was  this  very  topic,  the  once  illicit  status  of  &quot;Ulysses&quot;  in  the  United  [REDACTED],  that  prompted  Davies  to  write  the  one  passage  arrest-  ing  enough  to  make  me  cease-if  only  temporarily-flinging  the  book  against  the  wall.  It  read,  &quot;Forty  copies  were  smuggled  across  the  Ontario  border  by  Barnet  Braverman,  a  friend  of  Hem-  ingway's  (the  Canadians  had  unac-  countably  failed  to  ban  'Ulysses').  Mr.  Braverman  crossed  by  ferry  from  Windsor  to  [REDACTED]  once  a  day  with  two  copies  making  an  alarming  bulge  front  and  rear  of  him,eyed  suspicious-  ly  by  [REDACTED]  Customs,  But  they,  as  it  happened,  were  more  eager  in  those  days  to  suppress  booze  than  literature.&quot;  Mr.  Braverman's  contraband  echoes  in  memory  the  account  my  wife  gave  me  of  returning  from  her  maiden  voyage  to  Europe,  also  during  Prohibi-  tion.  She  was  accompanied  byher  mother,  who  in  turn  was  accompanied  by  sixteen  minute  bottles  of  liqueur-  B\xc3\xa9n\xc3\xa9dictine,  Chartreuse,  anisette,  and  the  like,  To  get  past  the  lynx-eyed  cus-  toms  inspectors,  they  were  suspended  from  her  mother's  girdle  in  a  fringe  of  sixteen  little  hammocks  the  elder  had  crocheted  aboard  ship.  Apart  from  tinkling  like  the  Swiss  bell  ringers  then  favored  in  vaudeville,  the  bottles  reached  home  undetected,  as  did  the  copy  of  &quot;Ulysses&quot;  secreted  in  some  silken  recess  of  the  ladies'  steamer  trunk.  I  myself  bore  home  a  copy  of  the  sacred  text  from  my  initial  trip  over-  seas,  but  I  also  brought  back  a  package  that  caused  me  far  more  inquietude.  To  put  the  story  into  perspective  and  a  nutshell,  I  undertook  the  trip  because  two  other  marine  excursions  had  bombed.  In  the  spring  of  1927,  I  oc-  cupied  a  wee  studio  on  [REDACTED]  Ninth  Street  in  the  Village,  where  I  drew  cartoons  that  ultimately  lowered  the  circulation  of  a  weekly  named  Judge  to  the  vanishing  point.  The  studio  had  a  north  skylight  and  the  approved  d\xc3\xa9cor  of  the  period-primrose-yellow  walls,  a  Roman  daybed  with  slipcover  of  monk's  cloth,  and  a  lamp  consisting  of  a  huge  glass  carboy  and  a  parchment  shade  that  excluded  all  light.  It  was  on  the  sixth  floor  of  a  building  equidistant  from  the  Athens  Chop  House  and  a  restaurant  run  by  the  Siegel  brothers,  and,  what  with  my  meagre  sustenance  and  my  constant  toiling  up  those  five  flights,  I  became  so  thin  that  a  Siegel  brother  inadvertently  stuck  me  in  a  jardiniere,  mistaking  me  for  an  um-  brella.  Realizing  that  my  dream  of  bankrupting  Judgewas  futile  unless  I  recovered  my  strength,  I  went  around  asking  people  did  they  know  a  place  a  man  could  get  away  for  a  while.  They  vouchsafed  that  they  did  in-  deed.  They  hadn't  been  there  them-  selves,  but  everyone  said  that  Martha's  Vineyard  was  the  Garden  of  Eden,  only  less  crowded.  That  was  what  I  was  looking  for-a  roomy  spot  where  one  didn't  have  to  stand  in  jardinieres.  So  I  packed  up  all  my  gear,  the  bristol  board,  the  Higgins  496e646961  Ink,  the  Chi-  nese  white,  and  the  fixative,  and,  bent  double  like  a  Sherpa,  caught  a  train  to  New  Bedford  and  a  steamer  down  to  Vineyard  Sound.  Well,one  look  at  the  saltwater  taffy  and  that  merry-  go-round  in  Oak  Bluffs-the  Flying  Horses-and  the  gingerbread  houses  in Cottage  City,  and  I  pelted  back  to  the  vessel.  Eighteen  years  were  to  pass  be-  fore  I  discovered  what  I'd  missed.  My  second  journey  offshore,  to  Fire  Island,  was  a  similar  epiphany.  Some-  where  between  the  ferry  landing  and  the  Ocean  Beach  Inn,  a  distance  of  thirty  feet,  I  contracted  a  virulent  case  of  poison  ivy.  For  the  next  six  days,  snow-white  with  calamine  lotion  and  more  heavily  bandaged  than  Claude  Rains  in  &quot;The  Invisible  Man,&quot;  I  sat  in  a  second-floor  room  of  the  inn,  in-  haling  the  scent  of  fried  clams  drift,  ing  up  the  stairway.  Desperate  for  contact  with  anyone,  even  the  manage-  ment,  I  offered  to  type  their  menus  for  free,  but  they  refused,  fearing  that  my  touch  would  infect  the  bill  of  fare.  Incensed,  I  determined  to  emulate  Bet-  a-Million  Gates-to  purchase  the  hotel  and  fire  the  whole  bloody  lot  of  them.  The  impulse  waned,  and  the  moment  my  affliction  did  I  took  leave  of  the  sandspit  pronto.  It  was,  hence,  without  any  appetite  whatever  fortravel  that  on  returning  to  New  York  I  strayed  by  chance  into  a  UFA  film  called  &quot;Variety.&quot;  In  it  Emil  Jannings,  Lya  de  Putti,  and  Warwick  Ward  composed  a  troupe  of  aerialists  whose  career  ends  in  mayhem  when  Miss  de  Putti  switches  her  affec-  tions  from  Jannings  to  Ward.  The  key  scenes  took  place  in  [REDACTED]'s  renowned  cabaret  the  Wintergarten.  Why  the  picture  evoked  in  me  a  burning  desire  to  visit  the  Wintergarten,  and,  more-  over,  how  I  dug  up  the  wherewithal,  I  cannot  fathom,  but  one  month  there-  after  the  S.S.  Leviathan  was  bound  east  for  Cherbourg  and  I  was  on  her  second-  class  manifest.  So  were  Francesca  Wild  and  Bunny  Huggins.  Francesca  and  Bunny,  two  lovelies  newly  hatched  from  some  incubator  like  Mount  Holyoke  or  Wheaton,  were  well  calculated  to  ravish  the  Old  World  or  anyoneon  his  way  to  it.  A  frail,  blond  Angelica  Kauffmann  type  of  beauty,  Francesca  was  clad  in  what  seemed  to  be  moonbeams,  but  I  could  be  wrong  about  that.  Bunny  was  dark  and  vivid-lots  of  eyeshadow  and  lip-  stick-with  a  divine  figure,  the  kind  that  makes  men  yearn  to  wrap  its  pos-  sessor  in  twenty-thousand-dollar  sable  coats.  (I  could  not  only  be  wrong  about  that-I  could  be  talking  through  my  hat.)  The  voyage  had  scarcely  be-  gun  when  a  turn  of  fate  threw  us  to-  gether.  I  was  quietly  sketching  away  in  the  bar,  unaware  that  the  two  were  at  the  adjoining  table.  Suddenly  Bunny  leaned  over  and  inquired  if  I  was  an  artist.  &quot;''The  reason  I  ask,&quot;  she  explained,  &quot;js  that  you  can't  fail  to  have  noticed  " b"that  I'm  wearing  a  black  tailored  suit  and  blouse  set  off  by  a  bunch  of  foamy  white  lace  at  the  chest.  My  friend  and  I  are  at  loggerheads  anent  the  correct  term  for  this  frizzy  accessory.  You  be-  ing  an  artist,  would  not  ephemera  of  this  sort  fall  naturally  within  your  pur-  view?&quot;  &quot;Why,  yes,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  believe  it  can  be  variously  described  as  a  jabot  or  as  a  fichu  or  as  ruching.  Under  whatever  designation,  Mademoiselle,&quot;  I  said,  ris-  ing  and  kissing  her  hand,  &quot;it  has  never  been  more  enchantingly  displayed.&quot;  &quot;Tiens,  Francesca,&quot;  she  exclaimed,  coloring  to  the  roots  of  her  hair,  &quot;I  declare,  we  must  have  bunked  into  M.  Beaucaire  himself!  Shall  we  invite  Mr.  Valentino  to  join  us?&quot;  From  that  point  on,  the  three  of  us  were  inseparable,  the  balance  of  the  trip  a  kaleidoscope  of  shuffleboard,  quaffing  bouillon,  with  saltines,  in  our  deck  chairs,  wearing  paper  hats  at  the  captain's  gala,  and  little  other  activity,  since  smooching  in  lifeboats  was  alien  to  our  moral  code,  and,  besides,  impossible  when  you  are  three  people.  In  due  course,  we  steamed  into  Queenstown  and  were  welcomed  with  a  cornet  solo  of  &quot;When  Irish  Eyes  Are  Smiling,&quot;  performed  by  an  alcoholist  teetering  un-  certainly  in  a  dory.  At  Southampton,     amid  emotional  farewells,  the  girls  de-  barked  and  I  proceeded  onward  to  the  Continent.  The  pilgrimage  to  [REDACTED]'s  Winter-  garten  took  its  place  reasonably  high  on  the  list  of  debacles  in  my  experience.  There  were,  of  course,  no  aerialists  executing  triple  somersaults  around  the  rafters  of  the  cabaret.  Instead,  two  dozen  Central  Europeans  sought  val-  iantly  with  throats,  feet,  accordions,  In-  dian  clubs,  playing  cards,  and  magic  equipment  to  demonstrate  their  crip-  pling  lack  of  talent.  Meanwhile,  I  sat  by  drinking  sweet  Tokay  that  turned  to  crystals  of  sugar  on  my  lips,  But  ulti-  mately  there  came  deliverance.  In  an  American  jazz  group  that  headlined  the  show  I  recognized  a  former  class-  mate,  and  to  him  I  dispatched  an  SOS.  The  good  man  did  his  best,  according  to  his  lights.  He  and  several  fellow-  bandsmen  conducted  me  on  a  tour  of  various  bars  in  the  Kurfiirstendamm  district,  where  they  painstakingly  col-  lected  the  ingredients  of  a  monumental  hangover  and  presented  it  to  me  at  the  railway  station.  As  the  milk  train  crawled  back  to  [REDACTED],  every  piston  stroke  of  the  engine  athrob  in  my  brain,  I  became  in  fancy  that  detestable  stereotype  who  has  imbibed  too  freely,  the  wealthy  young  rounder  cowering  under  an  ice  bag  applied  by  his  devoted  manservant.  Such  was  my  relief  when  the  delirium  ceased  that  on  arriving  at  the  Gare  du  Nord  I  knelt  down  and  promised  the  stationmaster  I  would  never  touch  another  drop  of  sweet  To-  kay-a  pledge  I  have  kept  to  this  day.     IN  the  week  following,  I  alternated  from  the  Dome  to  the  Select  to  the  Rotonde  to  the  Closerie-des-Lilas,  eavesdropping  on  folk  I  thought  might  be  the  originals  of  Jake  Barnes,  Lady  Brett,  and  Bill  Gorton,  and  when  I  found  they  were  eavesdropping  on  me  under  the  same  misapprehension,  I  de-  cided  we  were  all  a  lost  generation  and  booked  a  trip  homeward  on  the  Beren-  garia.  A  couple  of  days  before  sailing,  I  ran  into  Francesca  and  Bunny  hav-  inga  pressed  citron  at  the  Two  Mag-  gots.  With  them  was  an  elderly  wom-  an,  a  Mrs.  Wolf  or  Fox,  or  some  such  predator.  We  had  a  nice  reunion,  and  possibly  I  took  one  more  thimble  of  Dubonnet  than  I  usually  elect  to  have.  &quot;So  this  is  your  first  trip  to  [REDACTED],  Mr.  Praline,&quot;  says  this  Fox  person  cun-  ningly.  &quot;I  suppose  you've  bought  a  lot  of  gifts  over  here  for  your  girlfriends  back  in  New  York,  tee-hee.&quot;  No,  blurts  out  the  wealthy  young  rounder  and  authority  on  the  high  trapeze,  only  around  sixty  dollars  worth.  It's  a  wonder  I  didn't  hand  her  my  watch  and  chain  and  billfold,  too,  while  I  was  at  it.  &quot;Oh,  you  don't  say.&quot;  If  I'd  looked  at  her  instead  of  snapping  my  suspend-  ers,  I  could  have  seen  her  salivating.  &quot;I  wonder,  Fran  and  Bun,  whether  your  handsome,  courteous  young  friend  could  do  me  a  teensy-weensy  favor.&quot;  &quot;What  is  it,  what  is  it?&quot;  they  clamored,  adding  in  feminine  sign  lan-  guage,  &quot;Honey,  after  that  last  drink,  this  mark  is  putty  in  your  hands.&quot;  Well  Mr.  Protheroe  it's  too  sweet  my  son's  about  to  be  married  in  New  York  and  I  bought  him  a  bed  at  the  Galeries  Lafayette  or  Le  Printemps  I  forget  which  but  I  have  the  receipt  right  here  in  my  bag  there  look  at  it  just  forty  dollars  now  to  ship  it  would  take  months  and  months  but  since  you're  going  over  it  won't  be  a  bit  of  trouble  to  declare  it  just  hand  them  this  receipt  I'll  arrange  everything  with  the  store  the  bed'll  be  loaded  on  the  ship  Stanley  will  be  waiting  on  the  pier  God  bless  you  Mr.  Proskauer  for  un-  derstanding  a  mother's  heart  full  to  overflowing  with  gratitude.  The  old  harpy  never  could  have  euchred  me  into  it  but  for  those  two  precious  shipmates  of  mine  wheedling  and  needling  me  to  help  her,  and,  who  knows,  they  may  have  slipped  some-  " b"thing  into  my  drink.  At  any  rate,  a  week  later  the  assistant  purser  on  the  Berengaria  notified  me  they  had  a  case  in  the  hold,  bearing  my  name.  He  thought  it  might  be  quite  sizable,  be-  cause  the  Cunarder's  bow  had  been  awash  ever  since  we  sailed.  He  thought  there  might  be  a  bit  of  a  delay  unload-  ing  it  on  arrival,  as  the  three  winches  were  kept  pretty  busy.  &quot;Not  half  so  busy  as  the  three  winches-wenches-were  kept  who  were  loading  it,&quot;  I  growled.  I  had  to  repeat  it  several  times  before  he  got  it.  His  sombre  prediction  was  realized  in  spades.  The  Berengaria's  fires  were  long  since  banked,  my  fellow-passen-  gers  had  departed  hours  earlier,  and  still  I  sat  in  the  customs  shed,  grind-  ing  my  teeth  and  composing  sulphurous  limericks  about  Mrs.  Fox.  Finally,  two  inspectors  materialized  and  signalled  me  to  follow.  In  an  area  heaped  with  boxes  and  bales  lay  a  wooden  case  large  enough  to  accommodate  an  A.C.F.  cruiser.  'The  inspectors  examined  my  customs  declaration,  her  receipt,  and  the  bill  of  lading  the  purser  had  given  me.  &quot;Here,  hand  me  that  pinch  bar,&quot;  said  one.  &quot;I  want  a  look  at  the  con-  tents  of  this  box.&quot;  The  contents-that  was  the  word  that  demolished  my  house  of  cards.  Who  knew  what  was  inside  there?  It  could  be  opium,  the  Romanov  jewels,  half  a  dozen  illegal  Chinese.  Oh,  what  a  blithering  idiot  I  had  been!  Wait,  Officer,  I  wish  to  make  a  full-breasted  disclosure-I  mean  I  want  to  turn  state's  evidence.  It's  too  late;  he's  torn  away  the  board.  'Thank  heaven-a  mattress!  Still,  there  could  be  dope  in-  side.  ...  &quot;Look,  you  claim  you  paid  forty  dol-  lars  for  this  bed,&quot;  said  the  other  in-  spector.  &quot;Are  you  aware  they  retail  wholesale  for  a  hundred  and  eighty?&quot;  &quot;I-I  don't  understand,&quot;  I  said,  and  tried  to  entrap  him  in  semantics.  &quot;If  it's  retail,  how  can  it  be  wholesale,  too?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  a  wisenheimer,  eh?&quot;  His  voice  rose  an  octave.  &quot;Let  me  see  your  pass-  port,  you.&quot;  &quot;Hold  it,  Vic.  Let  me  handle  this,&quot;  his  colleague  interposed.  &quot;Listen,  bub,  what  are  you-a  dealer,  an  importer?  Or  is  this  article  for  your  own  use?  No  monkeyshines,  now-remember,  you're  under  oath.&quot;  With  visions  of  myself  striped  like  a  zebra  and  stitching  mailbags,  I  realized  there  was  only  one  recourse:  I  would  have  to  stoop  to  the  level  of  Mrs.  Fox.  I  assumed  what  I  hoped  was  asyrupy,  lovesick  expression.  &quot;Well,  gentlemen,  to  tell  you  the  truth,  I'm  engaged  to  the  dearest,  sweetest  girl  in  the  whole  wide  world,  and  we're  to  be  married  next  week.&quot;  I  paused  and  pulled  out  the  vox-humana  stop.  &quot;I  brought  this  over  for  our  little  nest.&quot;  Averted  though  were  my  eyes  in  shame  and  self-loathing,  I  could  tell  nevertheless  that  I  had  struck  pay  dirt.  I  heard  their  commingled  sighs  of  Briiderschaft.  &quot;Well,  that's  different.  ...  Sure,  whyn'tyou  say  so  before?  ...  Good  luck,  my  boy.  ..  .  Here's  your  receipt.  Run  along,  fella.&quot;  When  I  reached  the  barrier,  it  took  no  genius  to  distinguish  the  legitimate  bridegroom-to-be.  Tentacles  out-  stretched,  he  was  preparing  to  smother  me  with  gratitude,  buy  me  seven-course  meals  at  Villepigue's  in  Sheepshead  Bay,  treat  me  to  countless  weekends  at  Grossinger's,  but  I  threw  him  the  re-  ceipt  and  split.  Up  those  vertiginous  stairs  I  went  to  my  studio,  and  before  long  I  was  cartooning  away  as  good  as  new.  It  was  hardly  an  ideal  occupa-  tion,  but  it  was  a  damn  sight  easier  than  smuggling.  "