 b"I SIT  on  the  porch  facingthe  moun-  I  tains.  I  sit  ona  wicker  couch  look-  ingout  the  window  at  a  field  of  day  lilies.  I  walk  into  a  room  where  some-  one-an  artist,  maybe-has  stored  some  empty  canvases.  I  drink  a  glass  of  wa-  ter.  I  put  the  empty  glass,  from  which  I  have  just  drunk  the  water,  on  a  table.  I  notice  two  flies,  one  sitting  on  top  of  the  other,  flying  around  the  room.  I  scratch  my  scalp,  I  scratch  my  thighs.  I  lift  my  arms  up  and  stretch  them  above  my  head.  I  sigh.  I  spin  on  my  heels  once.  I  walk  around  the  dining,  room  table  three  times.  I  see  a  book  lying  on  the  dining-room  table,  and  I  pick  it  up.  The  book  is  called  &quot;An  Illustrated  Encyclopedia  of  Butter-  flies  and  Moths.&quot;  I  leaf  through  the  book,  looking  only  at  the  pictures,  which  are  bright  and  beautiful.  From  my  looking  through  the  book,  the  word  &quot;thorax&quot;  sticks  in  my  mind.  &quot;Thorax,&quot;  I  say,  &quot;thorax,thorax,&quot;  I  don't  know  how  many  times.  I  bend  over  and  touch  my  toes.  I  stay  in  that  position  until  I  count  to  one  hundred.  As  I  count,  I  pretend  to  be  counting  off  balls  in  an  abacus.  As  I  count  the  balls,  I  pretend  that  they  arethe  colors  red,  green,  blue,  and  yellow.  I  walk  over  to  the  fireplace.  Standing  in  front  of  the  fireplace,  I  try  to  write  myname  in  the  dead  ashes  with  my  big  toe.  I  cannot  write  my  name  in  the  dead  ashes  with  my  big  toe.  My  big  tos,  now  dirty,  I  try  to  clean  by  rubbing  it  vigor-  ously  on  aclean  royal-blue  rug.  The  royal-blue  rug  now  has  a  dark  spot,  and  my  big  toe  has  a  strong  burning  sensation.  Oh,  sensation.  I  am  filled  with  sensation.  I  feel-oh,  how  I  feel.  I  feel,  I  feel,  I  feel.  I  have  no  words  right  now  for  how  I  feel.  I  take  a  walk  down  the  road  in  my  bare  feet,  I  feel  the  stones  on  the  road,  hard  and  sharp  against  my  soft,  almost  pink  soles.  Also,  I  feel  the  hot  sun  beating  down  on  my  bare  neck.  It  is  midday.  Did  I  say  that?  Must  I  say  that?  Oh  me,  oh  my.  The  road  on  which  I  walk  barefoot  leads  to  the  store-the  village  store.  Should  I  go  to  the  village  store  or  should  I  not  go  to  the  village  store?  I  can  if  I  want.  If  I  go  to  the  village  store,  I  can  buy  a  peach,.  The  peach  will  be  warm  from  sitting  in  a  box  in  the  sun.  The  peach  will  not  taste  sweet  and  the  peach  will  not  taste  sour.  I  will  know  that  I  am  eating  a  peach  only  by  looking  at  it.  I  will  not  go  to  the  store.  I  will  sit  on  the  porch  facing  the  mountains.  I  sit  on  the  porch  facing  the  moun-  tains.  The  porch  is  airy  and  spacious.  I  \xc2\xae  Ca  am  the  only  person  sitting  on  the  porch.  I  look  at  myself.  I  can  see  myself.  That  is,  I  can  see  my  chest,  my  abdomen,  my  legs,  and  my  arms.  I  cannot  see  my  hair,  my  ears,  my  face,  or  my  collar-  bone.  I  can  feel  them,  though,.  My  nose  is  moist  with  sweat,  Locking  my  fingers,  I  put  my  hands  on  my  head.  I  see  a  bee,  a  large  bumblebee,  flying  around  aimlessly.  I  remove  my  hands  from  resting  on  my  head,  because  my  arms  are  tired.  But  also  I  have  just  re-  membered  a  superstition  :  if  you  sit  with  your  hands  on  your  head,  you  will  kill  your  mother.  I  have  many  supersti-  tions.  I  believe  all  of  them.  Should  I  read  a  book?  Should  I  make  myself  something  to  drink?  But  what?  And  hot  or  cold?  Should  I  write  a  letter?  I  should  writea  letter.  I  will  write  a  letter.  &quot;Dear  So-and-So,  I  am  .  ..  and  then  I  got  the  brilliant  idea  ...I  was  very  amusing.  ...I  had  enough,  I  said.  ...I  saw  what  I  came  to  see,  I  thought.  .  .  .  I  am  laughing  all  the  way  to  the  poorhouse.  I  grinned.  ...I  just  don't  know  anymore.  I  remain,  etc.&quot;  I  like  my  letter.  Perhaps  I  shall  keep  my  letter  to  myself.  I  fold  up  the  let-  ter  I  have  just  written  and  put  it  be-  tween  the  pages  of  the  book  I  am  try-  ing  to  read.  The  book  is  lying  in  my  lap.  I  look  around  me,  trying  to  find  something  on  which  to  focus  my  eyes.  I  see  ten  ants.  I  count  them  as  they  wrestle  with  a  speck  of  food.  I  am  not  fascinated  by  that.  I  see  my  toes  mov-  ing  up  and  down  as  if  they  were  tap-  ping  out  a  beat.  Why  are  my  toes  tap-  ping?  I  am  fascinated  by  that.  A  song  is  going  through  my  mind.  It  goes,  &quot;'There  was  a  man  from  British  Gui-  ana,  Who  used  to  playa  piana.  His  foot  slipped,  His  trousers  ripped  ...&quot;  (@  I  see,  I  see.  Yes.  Now.  Sudden-  ly  I  am  tired.  I  am  yawning.  Perhaps  I  will  take  a  nap.  Per-  haps  I  will  take  a  long  nap.  Per-  haps  I  will  take  a  nice  long  nap.  Per-  haps,  while  taking  my  nap,  Iwill  have  a  dream,  a  dream  in  which  I  am  not  sitting  on  the  porch  facing  the  moun-  tains.  &quot;T  HAVE  the  most  sensible  small  suitcase  in  New  York.  &quot;I  have  the  most  sensible  small  car  in  New  York.  &quot;I  will  put  my  sensible  small  suit-  case  in  my  sensible  small  car  and  drive  on  a  sensible  and  scenic  road  to  the  country.  &quot;In  the  country,  I  live  in  a  sensible  house.  &quot;I  am  a  sensible  man.  &quot;It  is  summer.  AUGUST  27,1979  &quot;Look  at  that  sunset.  Too  orange.  ''These  pebbles.  Not  pebbly  enough.  &quot;A  house  with  interesting  angles.  &quot;For  dinner  I  will  eat  scallops.  I  love  the  taste  of  scallops.  &quot;'These  are  my  chums-the  two  boys  and  the  girl,  My  chums  arethe  most  beautiful  chums.  The  two  boys  know  lumberjacks  in  [REDACTED],  and  the  girl  is  fragile.  After  dinner,  my  chums  and  I  will  play  cards,  and  while  play-  ing  cards  we  will  tell  each  other  jokes-such  funny  jokes-but  later,  thinking  back,  we  will  be  so  pained,  so  unsettled.&quot;  THE  deerflies,  stinging  and  nesting  in  wet,  matted  hair;  broken  bot-  tles  at  the  bottom  of  the  swimming  hole;  mosquitoes;  a  family  of  skunks  eating  the  family  garbage;  a  family  of  skunks  spraying  the  family  dog;  wash-  ing  the  family  dog  with  cans  of  toma-  to  juice  to  remove  the  smell  of  the  skunks;  a  not  too  fast-moving  wood-  chuck  crossing  the  road;  running  over  the  not  too  fast-moving  woodchuck;  the  camera  forgotten,  exposed  in  the  hot  sun;  the  prism  in  the  camera  bro-  ken,  because  the  camera  has  been  for-  gotten,  exposed  in  the  hot  sun;  sprain-  ing  a  finger  while  trying  to  catch  a  cricket  ball;  spraining  a  finger  while  trying  to  catch  a  softball;  stepping  on  dry  brambles  while  walking  on  the  newly  cut  hayfields;  the  hem  of  a  skirt  caught  in  a  barbed-wire  fence;  the  great  sunstroke,  the  great  pain,  the  not  at  all  great  day  spent  in  bed.  NSIDE,  the  house  is  still.  Outside,  the  blind  man  takes  a  walk,.  It  is  midday,  and  the  blind  man  casts  a  short,  fat  shadow  as  he  takes  a  walk.  The  blind  man  is  a  young  man,  twen-  ty-seven.  'The  blind  man  has  been  blind  for  only  ten  years.  The  blind  man  was  infatuated  with  the  driver  of  his  school  bus,  a  woman.  No.  The  blind  man  was  in  love  with  the  driver  of  his  school  bus,  a  woman.  The  blind  man  saw  the  driver  of  his  school  bus,  a  woman,  kissing  a  man.  The  blind  man  killed  the  driver  of  his  school  bus,  a  woman,  and  then  tried  to  kill  himself.  He  didn't  die,  so  now  he  is  just  a  blind  man.  The  blind  man  is  pale  and  sickly-looking.  He  doesn't  re-  turn  a  greeting.  Everybody  knows  this,  and  they  stay  away  from  him.  Not  even  the  dog  pays  any  attention  to  his  comings  and  goings.  \xe2\x80\x9cBUT  things  are  so  funny  here.&quot;  &quot;But  where?  But  how?&quot;  &quot;We  are  going  to  the  May  fair,  but  it's  July.  They  are  dancing  a  May  dance  around  a  [REDACTED],  but  it's  July.  " b"They  are  crowning  a  May  queen,  but  it's  July.  At  Christmas,  just  before  our  big  dinner,  we  take  a  long  swim  in  the  warm  seawater.  After  that,  we  do  not  bathe,  and  in  the  heat  the  salt  dries  on  our  bodies  in  little  rings.&quot;  &quot;Aren't  things  funny  here?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  things  are  funny  here.&quot;  HE  two  boys  are  fishing  in  Michi-  gan,  catching  fish  with  live  frogs.  The  two  boys  do  not  need  a  com-  fortable  bed  and  a  nice  pillow  at  night,  or  newly  baked  bread  forbreakfast,  or  roasted  beef  on  Sundays,  or  hymns  in  a  cathedral,  or  small-ankled  children  wearing  white  caps,  or  boxes  of  fruit  from  the  tropics,  or  nice  greetings  and  sad  partings,  or  light  bulbs,  or  the  tremor  of  fast  motor  vehicles,  or  key  chains,  or  a  run-down  phonograph,  or  rubbish  baskets,  or  meek  and  self-sacri-  ficing  women,  or  inkwells,  or  shaving  kits.  The  two  boys  have  visited  the  Mark  Twain  museum  in  [REDACTED]  and  taken  photographs.  The  two  boys  have  done  many  things  and  taken  photographs.  Here  arethe  two  boys  milking  two  cows  in  [REDACTED].  Here  are  the  two  boys  seated  on  the  hood  of  their  car  just  after  changing  the  tire.  Here  are  the  two  boys  dressed  up  as  gentlemen.  Here  are  the  two  boys  dressed  up  as  gentlemen  and  looking  for  large-  breasted  women.  HAT  man,  a  handsome  man;  that  woman,  a  beautiful  woman;  those  children,  such  gay  children;  great  laughter;  wild  and  sour  ber-  ries;  wild  and  sweet  berries;  pink  and  blue-black  berries;  fields  with  purple  flowers,  blue  flowers,  yellow  flowers;  a  long  road;  a  long  and  curved  road;  a  car  with  a  collapsible  top;  big  laughs;  big  laughing  in  the  bushes;  no,  not  the  bushes-the  barn;  no,  not  the  barn--  the  house;  no,  not  the  house-the  trees;  no,  not  the  trees,  no;  big  laugh-  ing  all  the  same;  a  crushed  straw  hat  that  now  fits  lopsided;  milk  from  a  farm;  eggs  from  a  farm;  a  farm;  in  the  mountains,  no  clear  reception  on  the  radio;  no  radio;  no  clothes;  no  free-floating  anxiety;  no  anxiety;  no  automatic-lighting  stoves;  a  walk  to  the  store;  a  walk;  from  afar,  the  sound  of  great  laughing;  the  piano;  from  afar,  someone  playing  the  piano;  late-  morning  Sleepiness;  many,  many  brown  birds;  a  big  blue-breasted  bird;  a  smaller  red-breasted  bird;  food  roast-  ed  on  sticks;  ducks;  wild  ducks;  a  pond;  so  many  wide  smiles;  no  high  heels;  buying  many  funny  postcards;  sending  many  funny  postcards;  taking  the  rapids;  and  still,  great  laughter. "