 b"I CAN  only  explain  my  genuine  lack  I  of  concern,  when  I  first  realized  that  my  suitcase  was  missing,  not  coming  up  with  the  others  off  the  plane,  by  saying  that  at  that  moment  I  was  in  a  mood  of  more  than  usual  self-  approval;  you  could  call  it  pride,  or  maybe  hubris,  even:  I  had  just  man-  aged  to  enjoy  a  vacation  alone-to  come  out  unscathed,  anyway-at  a  Mexican  resort  where  I  had  often  gone  with  my  recently  dead  husband,  a  trip  warned  against  by  my  children  and  well-meaning  friends,  of  course.  But  it  had  been  all  right;  I  was  glad  that  I  had  gone  there.  My  other  source  of  pride  was  sillier  but  forgivable,  I  think;  it  was  simply  that  I  was  looking  very  well.  I  was  tan,  and  the  warm,  gentle  green  Mexican  water  had  been  kind  to  my  hair.  I  was  brown  and  silver,  like  a  weathering  country  house,  and  Idid  not  mind  the  thought  of  myself  as  ag-  ing  wood.  In  any  case,  I  watched  the  proces-  sion  of  luggage  as  it  erupted  from  the  maw  of  the  baggage  area  in  the  San  Francisco  terminal,  up  from  the  Toltec  Airlines  plane  that  I  had  just  got  off;  I  watched  each  piece  as  it  was  claimed  and  lifted  off  the  treadmill  and  taken  away.  With  no  sinking  of  my  heart  (that  came  much  later),  I  waited  un-  til  all  the  other  bags  were  gone,  as  the  empty  treadmill  moved  in  its  creaking  circle,  and  I  realized  thatthat  was  it:  no  more  bags.  An  official-looking  per-  son  confirmed  that  view:  my  suitcase  was  somewhere  else,  or  lost,  or  irrep-  arably  smashed.  And  I  was  not  at  all  upset.  I  had  not  been  so  foolish  asto  take  anything  valuable  (had  I  indeed  owned  anything  of  that  sort  of  value)  to  a  somewhat  ratty  resort,  on  a  Mexican  beach,  and  I  even  thought,  Oh  good,  now  I  won't  have  to  wash  out  that  robe  with  the  suntan-lotion  stains.  A  pretty  black  girl  in  the  uniform  of  the  airline  gave  me  a  form  to  fill  out,  describingthe  suitcase,  and  giving  my  name,  Janet  Stone  Hallo-  ran,  my  address  and  phone.   She  gave  me  a  claim  num-  \xe2\x80\x9d(I  ber,  and  she  said,  &quot;You'll  If?  be  given  twenty-five  dollars  for  makeup  and  drugs,  you  \xc2\xa7  know,  for  tonight.&quot;  Good,  is  what  I  thought  again.  Very  good.  I  can  takea  cab  home  and  buy  some  toothpaste,  a  brush,  astringent,  cream.  For  vari-  ous  reasons,  mostly  having  to  do  with  pride  and  with      my  new  role  as  a  single  woman,  I  had  spent  too  much  money  in  [REDACTED],  paid  for  too  many  rounds  of  margaritas,  so  I  was  quite  conscious  of  even  small  sums  of  money.  I  assumed  then  that  a  check  for  twenty-five  would  come  to  me  automatically,  probably  tomorrow.  The  truth  is  that  I  was  quite  broke;  I  needed  to  get  a  job  as  soon  as  pos-  sible,  Walter  not  having  believed  in  in-  surance,  but  I  wasn't  dealing  with  that  problem  yet.  I  had  dealt  as  best  I  could  with  Walter's  death,  I  had  successfully  gone  to  [REDACTED].  I  would  think  about  money  and  jobs  tomorrow;  I  would  go  out  looking  while  I  still  was  tan.  Actually,  and  this  did  not  make  his  death  any  easier,  Walter  and  I  had  not  liked  each  other  much  lately.  We  had  married  young,  for  love  (well,  sex,  really)  ;  in  our  day  that  is  what  you  did  when  strongly  attracted.  And  as  the  physical  intensity  calmed  down,  dimin-  ished,  all  our  other  energies  seemed  to  go  in  opposite  directions.  A  familiar  story,  I  guess,  but  that  made  it  no  easi-  er  to  bear.  Like  many  lonely  women,  I  became  bookish,  an  obsessive  reader,  my  fa-  vorites  being  long  Victorian  novels.  (Once,  reading  &quot;The  Egoist&quot;  dith's  best,  I  thought-I  started  torec-  ommend  it  to  Walter,  such  a  wonder-  fully  funny  book.  But  then  I  recog-  nized  that  Walter  would  not  think  it  was  funny  at  all.)  Walter's  major  passion,  his  obsession,  turned  out  to  be  cars:  even  after  pro-  fessionally  he  went  from  selling  Fords  to  selling  life  insurance,  he  was  con-  stantly  buying,  selling,  trading,  trading  in  cars.  We  must  have  averaged  four  or  five  cars  a  year,  and  last  year,  the  year  he  died,  we  went  through  seven.  And  always  terrifically  fancy  ones;  I  now  have  a  1935  Franklin,  in  mint  condition,  up  for  sale.  I  hated  to  be  unsympathetic,  but  I  found  all  this  car  business  scary,  something  we  couldn't  afford,  and  I  sometimes  saidas  much.  But  Walter,  a  fast-talking  red-haired Irishman,  a  looker,  a  flirt,  was  not  much  of  a  listener,  or  not  to  me.  He  wouldfrown  distractedly,  and  go  on  with  his  dreams  of  cars.  None  of  which  helped  when  he  died.  Along  with  natural  grief  and  shock,  I  felt  guilty  as  hell:  why  couldn't  I  have  been  nicer  about  a  relatively  harmless  habit?  He  could  have  been  &quot;sleeping  around,&quot;  as  we  used  to  say;  well,  may-  be  he  was  doing  that,  too.  In  any  case,  his  death  was  a  dreadful-an  appall-  ing-event.  None  of  our  friends  knew  how  little  money  Walter  and  I  had  (no  doubt  misled  by  all  those  fancy  cars),  any  more  than  they  knew  how  little  we  liked  each  other.  Neither  fact  had  been  something  that  I  could  ever  speak  of,  or  maybe  I  had  long  ago  got  used  to  not  saying  those  things-a  New  En-  gland  habit  of  reserve.  And  there  was  a  connection  between  those  conditions:  if  we  had  had  money,  especially  if  I  had  had  a  little  of  my  own-that  en-  viable  condition-we  could  have  split  up;  but  no,  we  had  children  very  early  on  (red-haired,  all  of  them,  of  course),  four  children  who  seemed  to  stay  young  forever,  as  we  aged.  Now  they  were  all  away  at  school,  except  our  oldest  daughter,  who  was  married,  and  when  I  say  that  I  had  no  money  I  mean  that  I  had  barely  enough  to  keep  them  there,  and  not  enough  to  live  on  much  longer  by  myself.  Probably  we  would  all  have  to  go  to  work.  I  didn't  think  it  would  hurt  us  much;  more  New  England  puritanism,  I  guess.  And  my  choice  of  the  Mexican  beach  had  been  connected  with  both  of  those  unmentionable  facts,  lack  of  mon-  ey  and  not  getting  along  with  Walter.  It  was  extremely  cheap,  and  it  was  where  Walter  and  I  had  got  along  least  well.  I  always  loved  it;  he  hated  it  there,  and  went  along  as  a  conces-  sion  to  my  poor  taste,  if  grudgingly.  For  one  thing,  there  were  no  tennis  courts  within  miles,  and  Walt  was  an  impassioned  tennis  buff.  (He  died  on  the  courts,  in  fact,  after  what  I  was  told  was  a  magnificent  overhead  smash.  A  good  death,  in  that  way,  aiog  I  guess  you  could  call  it.)  k  To  a  degree,  naturally  enough,  my  friends  and  children  were  right;  it  was  lonely  being  there  without  even  an  unloved,  quarrel-  some  Walter.  And,  as  wid-  ows  will,  or  anyone  will  just  after  a  serious  love  af-  fair,  for  a  while  I  found  it  hard  to  remember  anything  but  the  good  times  between  us,  the  early  years  when  " b"we  both  had  jobs  with  con-  flicting  schedules,  his  selling     Fords,  mine  doing  research  for  some  lawyers;  and  so  when-  ever  we  were  even  briefly  at  home  together  we  would  make  love,  as  instantly  and  happily  as  mating  birds.  Also,  as  I  sat  alone  on  my  terrace,  watching  one  of  those  incredible  tropical  sunsets,  the  whole  sky  covered  with  bright  rags  of  clouds,  I  would  feel  really  frightened,  and  not  un-  reasonably  so.  There  was  not  exactly  a  superabundance  of  jobs  around,  and  suppose  I  couldn't  find  one,  or  not  for  years?  I  was  well  trained,  I'd  had  occasional  research  jobs  along  the  way,  helping  out  with  family  money,and  I  knew  a  lot  of  people;  still,  I  was  quite  a  few  years  over  twenty-five,  or  even  thirty.  What  would  I  do?  (I  know,  nowhere  near  the  poverty  lev-  el;  but  still  a  cause  for  con-  cern,I  thought.)  At  other  times,  however,  down  there  in  the  balmy  breezes,  I  would  experience  an  exhilarating  sense  of  adven-  ture.  I  knew  myself  to  be  a  strong  woman:  surely  I  could  turn  my  life  around?  I  was  not  really  dependent  on  a  middle-  class  support  system,  on  certain  styles  of  dress  and  entertaining,  on  &quot;safe&quot;  neighborhoods.  I  could  even,  I  imag-  ined,  find  a  big  house  to  share  with  some  other  working  women,  about  my  age-not  exactly  a  commune  but  a  cooperative  venture.  Such  pros-  pects  excited  and  to  a  degree  sustained  me.  And  there  was  always  the  extreme  beauty  of  the  place  itself,  the  big  horse-  shoe  cove  of  lovely  water,  with  its  white,  white  beach  and  rocky  promon-  tories  at  either  edge.  The  green  tropi-  cal  growth  thatrose  from  the  outer  edge  of  sand  into  hills.  And  the  clear  enormous  sky,  its  brilliant  blue,  then  gaudy  sunsets,  and,  later,  billions  of  stars.  Not  to  mention  the  flowers  spill-  ing  over  everywhere-the  profusion  of  bougainvillea,  of  every  shade  of  pink  and  orange.  I  could  feel  it  all  seeping  into  me,  with  the  stillness,  the  peace.  FORTUNATELY,  in  a  way,  the  last  time  Walt  and  I  were  in  [REDACTED]  was  by  far  our  worst.  Nothing  dra-  matic  or  specific-just  a  miasma  of  in-  communicable  depression  that  settled   on  us  both.  What  exactly  wason  Walt's  mind  I  have  no  idea,  just  bore-  dom  and  restlessness,  perhaps-or  he  could  have  been  having  a  &quot;relationship&quot;  in  San  Francisco  (I  always  at  least  half  suspected  that  he  was),  with  someone  whom  he  missed.  I  myself  was  de-  pressed  at  the  changes  that  I  saw  in  us,  and  in  our  bodies.  Our  slowing  mid-  dle-aged  flesh  seemed  to  parody  its  former  eager,  quick  incarnation,  and  I  looked  at  the  other  couples,  many  con-  siderably  older  than  we  were,  who  had  come  down  to  the  tropics  to  warm  their  hardening  bones-timo-  rous  people  looking  outward  rather  than  toward  each  other,  their  flesh  no  longer  joined.  And  I  thought,  Is  that  where  we  are  going,  Walt  and  I?  Is  the  rest  of  our  life  together,  if  we  stay  together,  to  be  such  a  process  of  attrition?  And  so,  in  that  sense,  being  there  without  Walt  was  better;  I  could  re-  member  the  good  days  quite  as  easily  as  the  bad-in  fact,  more  easily;  I  was  no  longer  daily,  hourly  reminded  by  his  presence  that  we  no  longer  loved  or  even  much  liked  each  other.  In  a  dig-  nified  way  I  could  be  sad  about  him,  even.  He  had  enjoyed  his  life,  his  ten-  nis  and  skiing,  parties,  drinking,  and,  for  the  most  part,  he  had  enjoyed  and  liked  our  children.  It  was  grossly  un-  fair  that  he  should  be  cut  off  from  all  that,  so  relatively  young.  AT  the  beach,  then,  I  thought  my  own  thoughts,  and  swam  a  lot,  and  read,  and  I  let  the  gentle  beauty  of  the  place  drift  through  my  mind.  And  I  observed,  rather  than  actively  participating  in,  what  social  life  there  was.  I  saw  a  woman  who,  like  myself,  seemed  to  be  travelling  alone;  some  years  older  than  I  was,  she  could  easily  have  been  a  widow  also,  or  maybe  di-  vorced.  And  she  was  talking  too  much.  I  would  see  her  with  groups  on  the  beach,  or  at  the  bar,  talking  and  talk-  ing.  I  had  earlier  noticed  such  an  im-  pulse  in  myself;  as  though  to  compen-  sate  for  Walter's  lack,  to  say  enough  for  us  both,  I  had  developed  a  new  tendency  to  garrulousness.  And  now,  in  a  distant,  sympathetic  way,  I  wanted  to  say  to  this  woman,  Please  don't,  you  don't  have  to  make  up  for  being  alone,  in  that  way.  I  further  observed  a  young  man,  also  alone,  but  seemingly  having  at-  " b"tached  himself  to  a  group  of  older  peo-  ple.  He  himself  was  not  really  as  young  as  he  felt  that  he  was.  He  would  be  very  good  with  old  ladies,  except  for  a  certain  kind  of  old  lady  (the  kind  I  plan  to  be),  who  will  suddenly  won-  der  why  she  is  paying  for  all  his  drinks,  and  will  decide  that  he  is  not  quite  worth  it.  I  watched  as,  each  time  someone  in  the  group  was  due  to  sign  for  drinks,  that  aging  boy  would  be  en-  gaged  in  animated  conversation,  some-  where  else-as,  still  unobserved  by  him,  the  smiles  around  him  congealed  and  froze.  Which  is  one  reason  that  whenever  I  fell  in  with  a  group  at  the  bar  I  made  a  point  of  buying  more  than  my  share  of  drinks.  I  looked,  and  thought,  and  observed,  and  I  wrote  down  a  great  deal  in  a  daybook  that  I  had  begun  to  keep,be-  gun  just  after  Walter  died.  Two  friends  had  suggested  this,  women  who  did  not  know  each  other.  A  coinci-  dence,  possibly,  but  enough  to  make  me  listen-although  I  later  concluded  that  they  were  both  influenced  by  the  fact  that  I  write  letters  much  more  often  than  I  telephone.  Also,  like  so  many  women  of  my  generation  (and  I  would  hope  some  men  and  younger  women,  too),  I  had     been  powerfully  moved  by  Doris  Les-  sing's  &quot;The  Golden  Notebook.&quot;  Not  that  I  saw  much  connection  between  myself  and  her  heroine,  Anna  (or  with  Lessing  herself);  still,  for  weeks  and  then  months  after  Walter  died,  I  made  myself  write  everything  down,  like  Anna  in  the  Blue  Notebook  section,  trying  to  understand.  And  it  did  help,quite  a  lot.  I  could  see  a  certain  progress  from  the  rage  and  despair  ofthe  first  entries,  the  nightmare  scene  at  the  funeral  parlor.  I  had  not  wanted  to  &quot;view&quot;  Walter;  I  was  talked  into  it-shamed  into  it,  really-by  my  oldest  daughter,  the  married  one,  and  by,  of  course,  the  funeral-parlor  person.  How  wonderful  he  looks,  they  both  murmured,  though  in  a  questioning  way;  he  looks  asleep.  Having  spent  many  hours  looking  at  Walter  asleep-he  always  slept  well,  whereas  I  had  occasional  insomnia-I  thought  he  did  not  look  asleep,  he  looked  dead,  very  dead,  dead  for  good.  I  hated  myself  for  breaking  down  and  crying  noisily  in  that  place.  Well,  all  that  was  vividly  in  my  notebook,  and  then  there  were  some  better  days  recorded,  and  a  few  more  bad  ones.  Kind  friends,  insensitive  friends,  intuitive  strangers.  It  was  encouraging  on  those  bad days  to  look  back  to  worse  ones,  earlier  on,  and  when  I  actually  felt  well,  re-  stored  to  my  old  self,  competent  and  strong-with  what  pride  I  recorded  that  sense.  T  was  not  until  I  was  in  the  taxi,  heading  home  from  the  airport,  and  thinking  with  foolish  pleasure  about  my  check  for  twenty-five  dollars,  that  I  realized  that  my  notebook  was  in  the  missing  suitcase,  along  with  the  stained  robe  and  the  other  things  I  didn't  much  care  about.  And  in  that  moment  of  un-  derstanding  that  my  notebook  could  be  gone  forever,  I  did  not  see  how  I  could  go  on  with  my  life.  Everything  within  me  sank.  It  was  as  though  my  respirator,  whatever  essential  machine  had  kept  me  breathing,  was  cruelly  removed.  This  is  worse  than  Walter's  death,  I  crazily  thought,  and  then  amended  (I  revised,  as  I  had  learned  to  dowith  crazy  thoughts)  so  that  in  my  mind  it  now  read,  I  can  deal  with  thisless  well  than  I  did  with  Walter's  death.  Arrived  at  my  door,  I  paid  for  the  taxi  with  several  of  my  last  vacation  dollars,  and  I  let  myself  into  my  small  (though  now  too  large)  &quot;safe&quot;  flat.  There  was  a  pile  of  letters  on  the  floor  which,  since  I  hadno  bag  to  un-  pack,I  immediately  sat  down  to  read.  And  there,  among  the  bills  and  circu-  lars,  the  demands,  were  three  letters  which,  had  I  been  in  a  more  normal  mood,  might  have  made  me  happy:  two  of  them  from  two  of  my  scattered  chil-  dren,  both  simply  nice,  kind,  and  friendly-sounding  like  the  sort  of  peo-  ple  I  would  have  wantedthem  to  turn  out  to  be-and  the  third  from  a  lawyer  for  whom  I  had  once  worked,  offering  sensible  job-getting  advice  and  strong  encouragement.  As  I  say,  had  it  not  been  for  my  missing  bag  and  my  lost  notebook,  it  would  have  been  a  good  homecoming.  I  lay  awake  planning  phone  calls.  TOLTEC  AIRLINES,  as  it  turned  out  the  following  morning,  did  not  have  its  own  Lost  and  [REDACTED]  (a  bad  sign  right  there,  I  thought);  its  losses  and  finds  were  reported  to  another  air-  line,  Griffith  International.  I  described  my  bag  to  a  cheerfully  inattentive  girl:  a  cheap  make,  I  said,  black  vinyl,  with  a  safety  pin  in  the  zipper.  Yes,  it  was  clearly  marked  with  my  name  and  ad-  dress.  Had  I  reported  its  loss?  Yes,  of  course.  Last  night.  Well,  most  bags  eventually  turn  up,  she  said,  and  I  must  believe  that  they  " b" were  just  as  eager  to  return  my  bag  to  me  as  I  was  to  get  it.  I  could  not  possibly  believe  that,  I  told  her  severely;  it  was  simply  untrue.  And  then,  as  though  it  were  an  afterthought,  I  asked  about  the  twenty-  five-dollar  compensa-  tion  check.  Oh,  that's  only  for  people  just  stopping  over,  she  said.  Oh.  She  suggested  that  I  might  want  to  call  the  night  person  at  Toltec  Airlines;  he  comes  on  every  night  at  six,  she  said,  and  she  gave  me  a  number.  The  man's  name  was  Dick  Parker-a  too  simple,  forgettable  name,  but  I  managed  to  keep  it  in  my  mind  all  day;  in  fact  I  thought  of  nothing  else.  He  turned  out  to  be  both  less  interested  and  less  optimistic  than  the  morning  girl.  Well,  sometimes  bags  did  get  stolen,  he  said.  Nothing  the  airlines  could  do,  thefts  happen.  Even  old  shabby  bags  like  mine?  Older,  shabbier  ones  got  ripped  off.  For  all  the  thieves  knew,  there  were  diamonds  inside,  he  picturesquely  said.  After  along  pause,  during  which  I  tried  to  digest  his  gloomy  and  irrefut-  able  logic,I  asked  about  compensation.  The  airline  pays  three  hundred  dol-  lars  after  two  weeks,he  said.  Oh.  HE  young  woman  who  answered  the  Lost  and  [REDACTED]  number  the  next  morning  sounded  Mexican,  I  thought,  which  I  found  irrationally  cheering,  as  though  national  pride  would  encourage  more  strenuous  ef-  forts  on  her  part.  I  again  described  my  bag,  and  again  she  went  off  to  look.  Only  later  did  it  occur  to  me  that  she  might-she  should  have  had  that  de-  scription  already  filed.  No,  she  announced  on  her  return;  my  bag  was  not  there,  I  should  imme-  diately  call  Mr.  Playa,  Pablo  Playa,  who  was  in  charge  of  Toltec  Airlines,  and  she  gave  me  a  number.  This  was  encouraging-someone  in  charge-and  I  was  charmed  by  the  name  Pablo  Playa.  The  numbers  that   I  dialled,  however,  felt  familiar;  just  as  Mr.  Playa  answered,  I  realizedthat  it  was  the  number  of  Dick  Parker:  Pablo  Playa  was  the  daytime  Dick  Parker.  But  he  had  a  mellifluous  Latin  voice,  Pablo  Playa  did,  and  his  tone  was  the  most,  if  not  the  only,  sympathetic  offi-  cial  voice  that  I  had  heard.  Of  course  I  was  upset,  he  said,  and  everything  would  be  done  to  find  my  bag.I  must  believe  him,  the  bag  would  be  returned  to  me  within  days.  And  also,  at  the  very  worst,  the  airline  paid  five  hun-  dred  dollars  for  lost  bags,  within  fifteen  days.  For  a  few  minutes  I  felt  vastly  cheered-my  automatic  response  to  warmth  and  charm,  to  promises-and  then,  with  a  characteristic  reversal,  cer-  tain  grim  and  obvious  truths  appeared,  to  rebuke  my  foolish  optimism.  First,  none  of  those  people  knew  what  the  others  were  doing;  there  was  no  one  in  charge.  Second,  there  was  no  fixed  policy  about  compensation.  Third,  there  was  no  concentrated  or  even  di-  rected  effort  to  retrieve  my  bag.  That  night  I  again  called  Dick  Par-  ker,  who  instantly  confirmed  all  those  suspicions.  How  long  had  it  been  since  I  lost  my  bag,  he  wanted  to  know.      It  was  not  I  who  had  lost  the  bag,  I  reminded  him;  it  was  them.  And  maybe  they  should  coordinate  their  files,  as  well  as  their  efforts?  Thank  you  for  telling  me  how  to  do  my  job,  he  said,  in  a  furious  way.  I  think  we  both  hung  up  at  the  same  moment.  OVER  the  long  haul  of  my  life,  I  have  noticed  that  even  the  most  upsetting  things  get  better  with  the  sim-  ple  passage  of  time;  even  deaths  be-  come  less  painful.  But  it  was  not  so  with  my  missing  bag;  it  was,  in  many  ways,  like  the  aftermath  of  a  robbery.  Once,  Walter  and  I  had  been  bur-  glarized,  and  for  weeks  I  kept  discov-  ering  more  things  that  were  not  there:  a  set  of  silver  grapefruit  spoons,  some  pretty  cocktail  napkins,  all  the  Beetho-  ven  quartets  (a  tasteful  ripper-offer,  that  one  was).  And  now,  having  thought  everything  but  my  notebook  valueless,  I  began  to  remember  a  nice  old  pink  cotton  shirt,  inexplicably  be-  coming;  some  big  whitebeads  (cheap,  from  Cost  Plus,  but  where  would  I  find  them  again).  Far  worse  was  my  deranged  sense  of  being  crippled  without  my  notebook,  my  notes;  and  my  awareness  that  it  " b"made  no  sense  was  not  much  help.  I  considered,  and  discarded,  the  obvious  theory  that  this  was  a  substitute  mourn-  ing  for  Walter,  that  it  was  actually  Walter  whom  I  could  not  live  with-  out;  that  explanation  simply  did  not  grip  me  in  the  way  that  a  true  insight  invariably  does.  I  also  asked  myself  if  the  lost  notebook  was  an  excuse  for  postponing  other  tasks  at  hand,  like  scrubbing  the  open  kitchen  shelves.  Looking  for  a  job.  The  next  day,  as  though  to  refute  that  thought,  I  did  scrub  the  shelves.  I've  read  somewhere  that  all  women  have  a  least  favorite  household  task,  and  that  is  mine:  the  irritation  of  put-  tingthose  little  spice  jars  and  bottles  somewhere  else,  displacing  the  ador-  able  little  keepsakes,  spilling  the  clean-  ing  stuff  on  the  floor.  Et  cetera.  And  then,  like  a  reward,  it  came  to  me,  something  that  probably  anyone  else  would  have  thought  of  days  before:  I  would  go  out  and  buy  another  note-  book,  I  would  write  down  all  that  I  could  remember  from  the  former  en-  tries,  and  then  I  would  start  in  again.  Obviously,  I  had  become  addicted  to  writing  things  down;  that  was  the  core  of  my  problem.  A  wonderful  idea,  a  solution-but  in  the  stationery  store  I  hesitated.  The  lost  notebook,  whose  duplicate  was  right  there  on  the  shelf  before  me,  had  been  rather  expensive,  seven  dollars,  now  up  to  eight-fifty  (I  could  measure  the  time  since  Walter's  death  by  the  rate  of  in-  flation,  I  thought).  Maybe  I  would  get  the  old  notebook  back?  In  that  mood,  I  compromised  on  a  much  smaller,  though  matching,  book;  its  spine  was  also  stamped  RECORD,  and  it  cost  two-  fifty.  I  took  it  home,  and  eagerly,  right  away,  I  began  to  record  the  newest  chapter  in  my  life,  which  I  headed,  of  course,  Lost  Luggage.  BY  rights  my  suitcase  should  then  have  been  returned-my  reward  for  maturity  and  strength-and  I  su-  perstitiously  believed  that  it  actually  would  be.  It  had  been  missing  now  for  five  full  days.  And,  still  expecting  that  it  would  reappear,  I  concentrated  on  writing.  I  stopped  calling  the  Toltec  people  and,  instead,  I  called  my  travel  agent  and  told  her  of  those  troubles;  she  would  take  care  of  everything,  she  said.  I  had  imagined  that  I  might  try,  as  a  sort  of  exercise,  to  record  some  of  what  I  had  felt  and  had  written  in  my  original  book  about  the  days  and  months  just  after  Walter's  death,  but  I  did  not.I  wrote  about  the  colors  of  [REDACTED],  still  lively  and  brilliant  in  my  mind,  and  from  there  I  moved  farther  back,  much  farther,  to  some  childhood  colors:  the  calm  blue-black  depths  of  a  New  Hampshire  lake  in  summer;  gray  winter  slush  on  Tremont  Street,  in  [REDACTED].  I  had  no  purpose,  really;  I  only  knew  that  the  hour  or  so  I  spent  writing  every  day  was  a  happy  time  for  me.  I  finished  that  notebook  and  I  bought  another  small  one,  and  probably  I  will  keep  on  buying  them.  And,  with-  out  really  noticing  it  as  something  re-  markable,  I  began  to  feel  a  great  deal  better.  ATE,  asI  should  have  recognized  by  now,  tends  to  reward  happiness  rather  than  virtue:  having  to  a  large  extent  cheered  up,  in  the  same  week  I  acquired  both  a  paying  guest  and  a  good  part-time  job.  The  guest  was  a  young,  er  friend,  Daisy,  with  whom  I  had  worked  on  a  couple  of  political  cam-  paigns;  she  had  split  with  her  most  re-  cent  lover,  and  she  wondered  if  may-  be-now  that-I  would  like  to  rent  her  a  room.  Well,  knowing  Daisy,  it  would  not  be  for  long,  but  she  was  entertaining,  and  kind,  and  reliable,  in  her  way.  And  if  this  was  not  the  co-  operative  venture  I'd  earlier  dreamed  of,  it  could  be  a  step  in  that  direction.  The  job  was  with  the  lawyer  for  whom  I'd  worked  before-a  little  less  work  than  I  needed,  but,  like  the  room  arrangement,  it  seemed  a  strong  step  forward.  And,  a  month  or  so  after  that,  I  received,  through  my  travel  agent,  a  check  for  $343.79,  from  Toltec  Air-  lines-a  figure  that  I  will  never  under-  stand,  but  it  paid  a  couple  of  bills.  I  don't  think  much  anymore  about  my  lost  notebook,  or  of  those  sad  early  days  that  it  recorded,  although  I  do  occasionally  wonder  if  Dick  Parker,  the  night  man  at  Toltec,  could  possibly  havebeen  right-if  some  misguided  thief  could  have  believed  that  I  carried  diamonds  or  cocaine  in  that  shabby  old  bag,  and  found,  instead,  some  well-  worn  summer  clothes  and  the  unhappy  jottings  of  a  very  confused,  a  searching,  woman.  I  don't  plan  to  go  back  to  that  par-  ticular  Mexican  resort;  I  believe  that  it  has  served  its  purpose  in  my  life.  But  it  has  occurred  to  me  that  the  next  time  I  go  on  any  trip,  one  of  these  new  notebooks  will  fit  easily  into  a  carryon  bag,  and  that,  even  if  the  book  were  to  be  lost,  the  loss  would  be  minimal. "