 b"YESTERDAY  was  his  eighth  birthday.  We  had  a  fine  party  for  him,  and  Bobby  was  happy  with  the  windup  train,  the  soccer  ball,  and  the  cake  with  candles.  My  sister  had  been  afraid  that  at  precisely  this  time  he  would  come  home  from  school  with  bad  grades,  but  it  was  just  the  opposite;  he'd  done  better  in  arithmetic  and  reading,  and  there  was  no  reason  to  take  his  toys  away-quite  the  contrary.  We  told  him  toinvite  his  friends,  and  he  had  Beto  and  Juanita;  Mario  Pan-  zani  came,  too,  but  he  didn't  stay  long,  because  his  father  was  ill.  My  sister  let  them  play  in  the  yard  until  dusk,  and  Bobby  broke  in  the  ball,  even  though  we  were  both  afraid  that  he  would  knock  over  our  plants  in  his  enthusi-  asm.  When  it  was  time  for  orangeade  and  the  cake  with  candles,  we  all  sang  &quot;Happy  Birthday&quot;  to  him  in  a  chorus  and  laughed  a  lot,  because  everybody  was  happy,  especially  Bobby,  and  it  seemed  to  me  to  bea  waste  of  time  keeping  an  eye  on  what  there  was  nothing  to  keep  an  eye  on.  Just  the  same,  I  kept  an  eye  on  Bobby  when  he  was  distracted,  trying  to  catch  sight  of  the  look  that  my  sister  doesn't  seem  to  notice  but  that  upsets  me  so  much.  This  time  he  looked  at  her  that  way  only  once,  just  as  my  sister  was  lighting  the  candles,  scarcely  a  second  before  he  lowered  his  eyes  and,  like  the  well-  brought-up  child  he  is,  said,  &quot;The  cake  is  very  nice,  Mama,&quot;  and  Juanita  ap-  proved,  too,  and  Mario  Panzani.  I  had  laid  out  the  long  knife  for  Bobby  to  cut  the  cake  with,  and  at  that  moment  especially  I  kept  an  eye  on  him  from  the  other  end  of  the  table,  but  Bobby  was  so  happy  with  the  cake  that  he  hardly  looked  at  my  sister  again  and  concentrated  on  the  task  of  cutting  small,  equal  pieces  and  passing  them  around.  &quot;You  first,  Mama,&quot;  Bobby  said,  giving  her  a  slice,  and  then  Juanita  and  me,  because  ladies  first.  They  immediately  went  out  into  the  yard  to  continue  playing,  except  for  Mario  Panzani,  but  first  Bobby  told  my  sister  again  that  the  cake  was  de-  licious,  and  he  ran  over  to  me  and  jumped  up  and  put  his  arms  around  my  neck  and  gave  me  one  of  his  wet  kisses.  &quot;The  train  is  wonderful,  Aunt-  ie,&quot;  he  said,  and  that  night  he  climbed  up  onto  my  lap  to  confide  his  great  secret  in  me:  &quot;I'm  eight  years  old  now,  you  know,  Auntie.&quot;  We  went  to  bed  rather  late,  but  it  was  Saturday  and  Bobby  could  loll  about  like  us  until  late  in  the  morning.  I  was  the  last  one  to  go  to  bed,  and  first  I  busied  myself  tidying  up  the  dining   room  and  putting  the  chairs  in  place.  The  children  had  played  Going  to  Jerusalem  and  other  games,  which  had  turned  the  house  upside  down.  I  put  away  the  long  knife,  and  before  going  to  bed  I  saw  that  my  sister  was  already  sleeping  the  sleep  of  the  just.  I  went  to  Bobby's  little  room  and  looked  at  him;  he  was  face  down,  as  he  had  always  liked  to  be  since  he  was  an  infant,  and  had  already  thrown  the  blankets  to  the  floor  and  had  one  leg  buried  in  the  pil-  low.  If  I  had  a  son,  I  would  let  him  sleep  that  way,  too,  but  why  think  about  such  things?  I  went  to  bed  and  didn't  feel  like  reading.  I  may  have  done  the  wrong  thing,  because  sleep  didn't  come  to  me  and  I  went  through  what  I  usually  do  at  that  hour  when  you  lose  your  will  and  ideas  leap  out  from  all  sides  and  seem  to  be  true-  everything  you  think  about  is  suddenly  true  and  almost  always  horrible  and  there's  no  way  to  shake  it  off,  not  even  by  praying.  I  drank  some  water  and  sugar  and  waited,  counting  down  from  three  hundred,  backward,  which  is  harder  and  makes  sleep  come.  Just  as  I  was  about  to  fall  asleep,  I  was  seized  by  doubts  about  whether  I'd  put  the  knife  away  or  whether  it  was  still  on  the  table.  It  was  silly,  because  I'd  put  everything  away  and  I  remembered  that  I'd  put  the  knife  in  the  bottom  drawer  of  the  cupboard,  but  just  the  same  I  got  up  and,  of  course,  it  was  there  in  the  drawer,  mixed  in  with  the  other  kitchen  utensils.  I  don't  know  why,  but  I  got  a  kind  of  urge  to  keep  it  in  my  bedroom.  I  even  took  it  out  for  a  moment,  but  that  was  already  too  much.  I  looked  at  myself  in  the  mirror  and  made  a  face.  That  didn't  make  things  any  better,  and  then  I  poured  myself  a  drink  of  anisette,  even  though  it  was  imprudent,  with  my  liver  and  all,  and  I  sipped  it  in  bed  to  help  sleep  come,  From  time  to  time  my  sister's  snoring  could  be  heard,  and  Bobby,  as  always,  was  talking  or  moan-  ing.  Just  as  I  was  falling  asleep  every-  thing  came  back  suddenly-the  first  time  Bobby  asked  my  sister  why  she  was  mean  to  him  and  my  sister,  who  is  a  saint,  everybody  says  so,  stood looking  at  him  as  if  it  were  a  joke,  and  even  laughed.  But  I,  who  was  prepar-  ing  the  mat\xc3\xa9,  remember  that  Bobby  hadn't  laughed.  On  the  contrary,  he  was  upset,  and  wanted  to  know  ;  at  that  time  he  must  have  already  been  seven  and  he  always  asked  strange  questions,  like  all  children.  I  remember  the  day  he  asked  me  why  trees  were  different  from  us  and  I  in  turn  asked  him  why  and  Bobby  said,  &quot;But,  Auntie,  they  cover  themselves  in  summer  and  un-  cover  themselves  in  winter,&quot;  and  I  stood  there  openmouthed,  because,  really,  that  child;  they're  all  like  that,  but  after  all  ...  And  now  my  sister  was  looking  at  him  puzzled;  she  had  never  been  mean  to  him,  she  told  him-just  strict  a  few  times  when  he'd  misbehaved  or  had  been  ill  and  had  to  do  things  he  didn't  like.  Juanita's  mother  and  Mario  Panzani's  mother  were  also  strict  with  their  children  when  it  was  necessary.  But  Bobby  kept  on  looking  at  her  sadly  and  explained  that  it  wasn't  during  the  day-that  she  was  mean  at  night,  when  he  was  asleep.  The  two  of  us  were  flabber-  gasted,  and  I  think  that  it  was  I  who  began  to  explain  to  him  that  no  one  is  to  blame  for  what  happens  in  dreams,  that  it  must  havebeen  a  nightmare  and  that  was  all,  there  was  no  need  to  worry.  That  day  Bobby  didn't  in-  sist-he  always  accepted  our  explana-  tions  and  he  wasn't  a  difficult  child-  but  a  few  days  later  he  awoke  weeping  and  shouting  and  when  I  got  to  his  bed  he  hugged  me  and  wouldn't  speak.  He  just  cried  and  cried,  another  night-  mare  surely,  but  at  noontime  he  sud-  denly  remembered  and  asked  my  sister  again  why  she  was  so  mean  to  him  when  he  was  asleep.  This  time  my  sister  hugged  him  to  her  breast,  told  him  that  he  was  too  big  now  not  to  know  the  difference,  and  that  if  he  kept  on  insisting  about  that  she  was  going  to  talk  to  Dr.  Kaplan,  because  he  probably  had  worms  or  appendicitis  and  something  would  have  to  be  done.  I  felt  that  Bobby  was  going  to  start  crying  and  hastened  to  explain  to  him  again  about  nightmares-he  had  to  realize  that  nobody  loved  him  as  much  as  his  mother,  not  even  I,  who  loved  him  so  much-and  Bobby  listened  very  seriously,  drying  a  tear,  and  said  of  course  he  knew  and  got  out  of  his  chair  to  go  kiss  my  sister,  who  didn't  know  what  to  do  and  remained  thoughtful,  looking  into  space.  That  afternoon  I  went  to  look  for  him  in  the  yard  and  asked  him  to  tell  me,  his  aunt,  because  he  could  confide  everything  in  me  the  same  as  with  his  mother,  and  if  he  didn't  want  to  tell  her,  he  could  tell  me.  You  could  see  that  he  didn't  want  " b"to  talk-it  was  too  much  for  him-but  finally  he  said  something  like  at  night  it  was  all  different;  he  spoke  about  some  sort  of  black  cloth  that  he  couldn't  get  his  hands  or  feet  out  of.  Anyone  can  have  nightmares  like  that,  but  it  was  a  shame  that  Bobby  should  only  have  them  about  my  sister,  who  made  so  many  sacrifices  for  him.  I  told  him  that,  and  I  repeated  it,  and  he,  of  course,  agreed.  IGHT  after  that  my  sister  came  down  with  pleurisy  and  I  had  to  take  care  of  things.  Bobby  was  no  trou-  ble  for  me,  because,  small  as  he  was,  he  could  handle  almost  everything  by  himself.  I  remember  that  he  would  come  in  to  see  my  sister  and  stay  by  the  side  of  her  bed  without  speaking,  wait-  ing  for  her  to  smile  at  him  or  to  stroke  his  hair,  and  then  he  would  go  quietly  out  into  the  yard  and  play  or  into  the  living  room  to  read.  I  didn't  even  have  to  tell  him  not  to  play  the  piano  during  that  time,  even  though  he  liked  to  very  much.  The  first  time  I  saw  that  he  was  sad  I  explained  to  him  that  his  mother  was  better  now  and  that  one  ofthese  days  she  would  get  up  for  a  while  to  take  some  sun.  Bobby  put  on  a  strange  expression  and  looked  at  me  out  of  the  corner  of  his  eye;  I  don't  know,  the  idea  suddenly  came  to  me  and  I  asked  him  if  he  was  having  his  nightmares  again.  He  began  to  weep  very  quietly,  hiding  his  face;  then  he  said  he  was-  why  was  his  mother  that  way  with  him?  That  time  I  realized  that  he  was  afraid;  when  I  lowered  his  hands  to  dry  his  face  I  could  see  the  fear,  and  it  was  hard  for  me  to  act  indifferent  and  explain  to  him  once  more  that  they  were  only  dreams.  &quot;Don't  say  anything  to  her,&quot;  I  told  him,.  &quot;Re-  member,  she's  still  weak  and  it  might  have  some  effect  on  her.&quot;  Bobby  nodded  in  silence-he  had  so  much  trust  in  me-but  later  on  I  came  to  think  that  he  had  taken  me  too  literal-  ly,  because  not  even  when  my  sister  was  convalescing  did  he  talk  about  it  again.  I  could  sense  it  in  him  on  some  mornings  when  I  would  see  him  come  out  of  his  room  with  that  lost  expres-  sion,  and  also  because  he  spent  all  of  his  time  with  me,  hovering  about  in  the  kitchen.  One  or  two  times  I  couldn't  take  it  anymore  and  spoke  to  him  in  the  yard  or  when  I  was  bathing  him,  and  he  was  always  the  same,  making  an  effort  not  to  cry,  swallowing  his  words,  because  his  mother  was  that  way  with  him  at  night,  but  he  wouldn't  go  beyond  that,  he  was  weeping  too  much,  I  explained  again  to  Bobby,  who  understood  quite  well,  that  I  didn't  want  my  sister  to  find  out,  because  she  was  still  weak  from  the  pleu-  risy  and  it  might  affect  her  too  much,  but  on  the  other  hand  hecould  tell  me  anything.  He  would  soon  see  that  when  he  got  a  little  older  he'd  stop  having  those  nightmares;  it  would  be  better,  though,  if  he  didn't  eat  so  much  bread  at  night.  I  was  going  to  ask  Dr.  Kap-  lan  if  he  might  not  need  a  laxative,  so  he  could  sleep  without  any  bad  dreams,  but  I  didn't,  of  course;  it  was  difficult  to  talk  about  something  like  that  with  Dr.  Kaplan,  who  had  such  a  busy  prac-  tice  and  wasn't  about  to  waste  his  time.  I  don't  know  if  I  did  the  right  thing  or  not,  but  little  by  little  Bobby  stopped  worrying  me  so  much.  Some-  times  I  would  see  him  in  the  morn-  ing  with  that  slightly  lost  air  and  I  would  say  to  myself,  Probably  again,  and  then  I  would  wait  for  him  to  come  and  confide  in  me,  but  Bobby  would  start  to  sketch  or  go  to  school  without  saying  anything  to  me  and  would  come  home  happy,  and  he  was  stronger  and  healthier  each  day  and  got  the  best  grades.  HE  last  time  was  during  the  February  heat  wave;  my  sister  was  completely  recovered  and  we  lived  life  as  usual.  I  don't  know  if  she  was  aware  that  something  was  wrong,  but  I  didn't  want  to  say  anything  to  her,  because  I  know  her  and  I  know  that  she's  too  sensitive,  especially  when  it's  a  question  of  Bobby,  even  though  I  can  remember  when  Bobby  was  small  bd  and  my  sister  was  still  suffering  from  the  shock  of  the  divorce  and  all  that-  how  hard  it  was  for  her  to  bear  up  when  Bobby  would  cry  or  do  some  bit  of  mischief,  and  I  had  to  take  him  out  into  the  yard  and  wait  for  everything  to  calm  down;  that's  what  we  aunts  are  for.  Actually,  I  think  that  my  sister  didn't  realize  that  sometimes  Bobby  would  get  up  as  if  he  were  returning  from  a  long  trip,  with  a  lost  facethat  lasted  him  until  breakfast;  when  we  were  alone  I  always  waited  for  her  to  say  something,  but  she  didn't,  and  I  thought  it  was  bad  to  remind  her  of  something  that  could  only  make  her  suffer.  I  imagined,  rather,  that  one  of  those  times  Bobby  would  ask  her  again  why  she  was  mean  to  him,  but  Bobby  also  must  have  thought  that  he  didn't  have  the  right  to  do  something  like  that;  it  was  possible  that  he  remem-  bered  my  request  and  thought  that  he  would  never  have  to  talk  about  that  to  my  sister  anymore.  Occasionally  I  would  get  the  feeling  that  I  was  the  one  who  was  inventing  it  all,  and  would  be  certain  that  Bobby  was  no  longer  dreaming  anything  bad  about  his  mother-he  would  have  told  me  at  once  in  order  to  console  himself.  But  afterward  I  would  see  onhim  that  face  from  certain  mornings  and  start  to  worry  again.  I  decided  it  would  be  bet-  ter  for  my  sister  not  to  be  aware  of  anything,  not  even  the  first  time  that  Bobby  gave  her  the  look.  I  was  ironing  and  from  the  door  of  the  pantry  he  " b"looked  at  my  sister  in  the  kitchen,  and  I  don't  know  how  something  like  that  can  be  explained  except  that  the  iron  almost  put  a  hole  in  my  blue  night-  gown-I  took  it  off  just  in  time.  Bob-  by  was  still  looking  at  my  sister  that  way  as  she  rolled  dough  to  make  meat  tarts.  When  I  asked  him  what  he  wanted,  just  for  the  sake  of  saying  something  to  him,he  was  startled  and  said  he  didn't  want  anything,  that  it  was  too  hot  outside  to  play  ball.  I  don't  know  what  tone  I  used  to  ask  the  ques-  tion,  but  he  repeated  the  explanation  as  if  to  convince  me  and  went  off  to  sketch  in  the  parlor.  My  sister  said  that  Bobby  was  quite  dirty  and  she  was  go-  ing  to  give  him  a  bath  that  afternoon-  big  as  he  was,  he  always  forgot  to  wash  his  feet  and  behind  his  ears.  In  the  end  I  was  the  one  who  bathed  him,  be-  cause  my  sister  still  got  tired  in  the  afternoon,  and  while  I  was  soaping  him  in  the  bathtub  and  he  was  playing  with  the  plastic  duck  that  he  refused  to  let  appears  again,  rooted  in  dreamed  tears,  yes,  each  branch,  each  needle  go  of,  I  got  up  the  courage  to  ask  him  if  he  was  sleeping  better  these  days.  \xc2\xab&quot;More  or  less,&quot;  he  told  me  after  a  moment  dedicated  to  making  the  duck  swim.  &quot;What  do  you  mean,  more  or  less?  Are  you  dreaming  ugly  things  or  not?&quot;  &quot;The  other  night  I  did,&quot;  Bobby  said,  sinking  the  duck  and  holding  it  under  the  water.  \xc2\xabDid  you  tell  your  mother?&quot;  &quot;No,  not  her.  She  .  ..&quot;  He  didn't  give  me  time  for  any-  thing;  soaped  up  and  all,  he  threw   \n\nhimself  on  top  of  me  and  hugged  me,  weeping,  trembling,  making  me  miser-  able  while  I  tried  to  push  him  off,  and  his  body  slipped  between  my  fingers  until  he  dropped  into  a  sitting  position  in  the  bathtub  and  covered  his  face  with  his  hands,  weeping  and  shouting.  My  sister  came  running  and  thought  Bobby  had  slipped  and  hurt  himself  some-  where,  but  he  said  no  with  his  head,  stopped  crying  with  an  effort  that  wrinkled  up  his  face,  and  stood  up  in  the  bathtub  so  that  we  could  see  that  nothing  had  happened  to  him-refus-  ing  to  speak,  naked,  soapy,  and  so  alone  in  his  held-in  weeping  that  neither  my  sister  nor  I  could  calm  him  down,  even  though  we  brought  towels  and  caresses  and  promises.  NTER  that  I  always  looked  for  a  chance  to  build  up  Bobby's  confi-  dence  without  his  realizing  that  I  was  trying  to  make  him  talk,  but  weeks  passed  and  he  never  tried  to  tell  me  " b"anything.  When  I  spotted  something  in  his  face  now,  he  would  go  away  imme-  diately  or  embrace  me  and  ask  for  some  candy  or  permission  to  go  to  the  corner  with  Juanita  and  Mario  Panzani.  He  never  asked  my  sister  for  anything;  he  was  very  attentive  toward  her,  as  she  was  basically  still  in  rather  delicate  health,  and  she  didn't  worry  too  much  about  taking  care  of  him,  because  I  was  always  there  first,  and  Bobby  would  ac-  cept  anything  from  me,  even  what  was  most  disagreeable,  when  it  was  neces-  sary,  So  my  sister  never  came  to  be  aware  of  what  I  had  seen  immediate-  ly-his  way  of  looking  at  her  like  that  for  a  moment,  of  remaining  in  the  doorway  looking  at  her  until  I  became  aware  of  it  and  then  he  would  quickly  lower  his  eyes  or  start  running  or  jumping.  The  business  of  the  knife  was  just  by  chance.  I  was  changing  the  pa-  per  on  the  pantry  shelves  and  had  taken  all  the  dishes  down;  I  didn't  realize  that  Bobby  had  come  in  until  I  turned  around  to  cut  another  strip  of  paper  and  saw  him  looking  at  the  longest  knife.  He  became  distracted  right  away  or  didn't  want  me  to  notice,  but  I  al-  ready  knew  that  way  of  looking  he  had,  and,  I  don't  know,  it's  stupid  to  think  such  things,  but  it  all  came  over  me  like  a  chill,  almost  an  icy  wind  in  that  overheated  pantry.  I  was  unable  to  say  anything  to  him,  but  at  night  I  thought  of  how  Bobby  had  stopped  asking  my  sister  why  she  was  mean  to  him;  only  at  times  would  he  look  at  her  as  he  had  looked  at  the  long  knife-that  different  look,  It  might  have  been  just  chance,  of  course,  but  I  didn't  like  it  during  the  following week  when  I  saw  the  same  face  on  him  precisely  while  I  was  cutting  the  bread  with  the  long  knife  and  my  sis-  ter  was  explaining  to  Bobby  that  it  was  time  now  for  him  to  learn  to  shine  his  own  shoes.  &quot;Yes,  Mama,&quot;  Bobby  said,  paying  attention  only  to  what  I  was  doing  to  the  bread,  accompanying  every  movement  of  the  knife  with  his  eyes  and  swaying  in  his  chair,  almost  as  if  he  were  cutting  the  bread  himself;  he  was  probably  thinking  about  the  shoes  and  moving  as  if  he  were  shining  them-my  sister  certainly  thought  that,  because  Bobby  was  so  obedient  and  so  good.  At  night  I  wondered  whether  I  shouldn't  talk  to  my  sister,  but  what  was  I  going  to  tell  her,  since  nothing  was  happening  and  Bobby  was  getting  the  best  grades  in  his  class  and  things  like  that.  Except  that  I  couldn't  sleep,  because  suddenly  everything  came  to-  gether  again;  it  was  like  a  mass  that  grew  thicker  and  then  the  fear,  impos-  sible  to  know  of  what,  because  Bobby  and  my  sister  were  already  asleep  and  they  could  be  heard  moving  or  sighing  from  time  to  time-they  were  sleeping  so  well,  much  better  than  I,  lying  there  thinking  all  night  long.  And,  of  course,  I  finally  sought  out  Bobby  in  the  garden  after  I  saw  him  look  at  my  sister  that  way  again,  and  I  asked  him  to  help  me  transplant  a  mastic  and  we  talked  about  lots  of  things  and  he  con-  fided  in  me  that  Juanita  had  a  sister  who  was  engaged.  &quot;Naturally.  She's  big  now,&quot;  I  told  him.  &quot;Look,  go  get  me  the  long  knife  from  the  kitchen  so  we  can  cut  these  raffias.&quot; He  ran  off  as  always,  because  there  was  no  one  better  than  he  for  doing  what  I  wanted,  and  I  remained  look-  ing  toward  the  house  waiting  for  him  to  come  back,  thinking  I  really  should  have  asked  him  about  the  dreams  before  sending  him  for  the  knife,  just  to  be  sure.  When  he  came  back,  walking  very  slowly,  as  if  wading  through  the  siesta-  time  atmosphere  in  order  to  take  long-  er,  I  saw  that  he  had  picked  out  one  of  the  short  knives,  even  though  I  had  left  the  long  one  in  plain  view,  because  I  wanted  to  be  sure  that  he  would  see  it  as  soon  as  he  opened  the  cupboard  drawer.  &quot;'This  one  is  no  good,&quot;  I  told  him.  It  was  hard  for  me  to  speak;  it  was  stupid  with  someone  as  small  and  in-  nocent  as  Bobby,  but  I  couldn't  look  him  in  the  eye.  I  only  felt  the  shove  when  he  threw  himself  into  my  arms,  letting  go  of  the  knife,  and  pressing  himself  against  me,  pressing  himself  so  much  against  me  and  weeping.  I  think  that  at  that  moment  I  saw  something  that  must  have  been  his  last  nightmare.  I  couldn't  ask  him,  but  I  think  that  I  saw  what  he  had  dreamt  the  last  time  before  he  stopped  having  the  night-  mares,  and  yet  there  was  that  way  of  looking  at  my  sister,  of  looking  at  the  long  knife.  "