 b"MAESTRO  IT  was  the  last  daylight  hour  of  a  December  afternoon  more  than  twenty  years  ago-I  was  twenty-  three,  writing  and  publishing  my  first  short  stories,  and  like  many  a  Bildungs-  roman  hero  before  me,  already  con-  templating  my  own  massive  Bildungs-  roman-when  I  arrived  at  his  hide-  away  to  meet  the  great  man.  The  clapboard  farmhouse  was  at  the  end  of  an  unpaved  road  twelve  hundred  feet  up  in  the  Berkshires,  yet  the  figure  who  emerged  from  the  study  to  bestow  a  ceremonious  greeting  wore  a  gray  gab-  ardine  suit,  a  knitted  blue  tie  clipped  to  a  white  shirt  by  an  unadorned  sil-  ver  clasp,  and  well-brushed  ministerial  black  shoes  that  made  me  think  of  him  stepping  down  from  a  shoeshine  stand  rather  than  the  high  altar  of  art.  Be-  fore  I  had  composure  enough  to  notice  the  commanding,  autocratic  angle  at  which  he  held  his  chin,  or  the  regal,  meticulous,  ratherdainty  care  he  took  to  arrange  his  clothes  before  sitting-  to  notice  anything,  really,  other  than  that  I  had  miraculously  made  it  from  my  unliterary  origins  to  here,  to  him-  my  impression  was  that  E.  I.  Lonoff  looked  more  like  the  local  superintend-  ent  of  schools  than  the  region's  most  original  storyteller  since  Melville  and  [REDACTED].  Not  that  the  New  York  gossip  about  him  should  have  led  me  to  expect  any-  thing  more  grand.  When  I  had  recent-  ly  raised  his  name  before  the  jury  at  my  first  [REDACTED]  publishing  party-I'd  arrived,  excited  as  a  starlet,  on  the  arm  of  an  elderly  editor-Lonoff  was  al-  most  immediately  disposed  of  by  the  wits  on  hand  as  though  it  were  comical  that  a  Jew  of  his  generation,  an  immi-  grant  child  to  begin  with,  should  have  married  the  scion  of  an  old  New  En-  gland  family  and  lived  all  these  years  &quot;in  the  country&quot;-that  is  tosay,  in  the  goyish  wilderness  of  birds  and  trees  where  [REDACTED]  began  and  long  ago  had  ended.  However,  since  everybody  else  of  renown  I  mentioned  at  the  par-  ty  also  seemed  slightly  amusing  to  those  in  the  know,  I  had  been  skeptical  about  their  satiric  descriptions  of  the  famous  rural  recluse.  In  fact,  from  what  I  saw  at  that  party,  I  could  begin  to  under-  stand  why  hiding  out  twelve  hundred  feet  up  in  the  mountains  with  just  the  birds  and  the  trees  might  not  be  a  bad  idea  for  a  writer,  Jewish  or  not.  The  living  room  he  took  me  into  was  neat,  cozy,  and  plain:  a  large  cir-  cular  hooked  rug,  some  slipcovered easy  chairs,  a  worn  sofa,  a  long  wall  of  books,  a  piano,  a  phonograph,  an  oak  library  table  systematically  stacked  with  journals  and  magazines,  Above  the  white  wainscoting,  the  pale  yellow  walls  were  bare  but  for  half  a  dozen  amateur  watercolors  of  the  old  farm-  house  in  different  seasons,.  Beyond  the  cushioned  windowseats  and  the  color-  less  cotton  curtains  tied  primly  back,  I  could  see  the  bare  limbs  of  big  dark  maple  trees  and  fields  of  driven  snow.  Purity,  Serenity.  Simplicity.  Seclusion.  All  one's  concentration  and  flamboy-  ance  and  originality  reserved  for  the  gruelling,  exalted,  transcendent  calling.  I  looked  around  and  I  thought,  This  is  how  I  will  live.  After  directing  me  to  one  of  a  pair  of  easy  chairs  beside  the  fireplace,  Lon-  off  removed  the  fire  screen  and  peered  in  to  be  sure  the  damper  was  open.  With  a  wooden  match  he  lighted  the  kindling  that  apparently  had  been  laid  there  in  anticipation  of  our  meeting.  Then  he  placed  the  fire  screen  back  into  position  as  precisely  as  though  it  were  being  fitted  into  a  groove  in  the  hearth,  Certain  that  the  logs  had  caught-satisfied  that  he  had  success-  fully  ignited  a  fire  without  endangering  the  two-hundred-year-old  house  or  its  inhabitants-he  was  ready  at  last  to  join  me.  With  hands  that  were  almost  ladylike  in  the  swiftness  and  delicacy  of  their  movements,  he  hiked  the  crease  in  each  trouser  leg,  and  took  his  seat.  He  moved  with  a  no-  table  lightness  for  such  a  large,  heavyset  man.  &quot;How  would  you  pre-  fer  to  be  addressed?&quot;  asked  Emanuel  Isidore  Lonoff.  &quot;As  Nathan,  Nate,  or  Nat?  Or  have  you  an-  other  preference  entirely?&quot;  Friends  and  acquaintances  called  him  Manny,  he  in-  formed  me,  and  I  should  do  the  same.  &quot;That  will  make  conversation  easier.&quot;  I  doubted  that,  but  I  smiled  to  indicate  that  no  matter  how  light-headed  it  was  bound  to  leave  me,  I  would  obey.  The  mas-  ter  then  proceeded  to  undo  me  further  by  asking  to  hear  something  from  me  about  my  life.  Needless  to  say,  there  wasn't  much  to  report  about  my  life  in  1956-certainly  not,  as  I  saw  it,  to  someone  so  knowing  and  deep.  I  had  been  raised  by  doting  par-  " b"ents  in  a  [REDACTED]  neighborhood  neither  rich  nor  poor;  I  had  a  younger  brother  who  was  said  to  idolize  me;  at  a  good  local  high  school  and  an  ex-  cellent  college  I  had  per-  formed  as  generations  of  my  forebears  had  expected  me  to;  subsequently  I  had  served  in  the  Army,  stationed  just  an  hour  from  home,  writing  public-information  handouts  for  a  Fort  Dix  major  even  while  the  massacre  for  which  my  carcass  had  been  drafted  was  being  bloodily  concluded  in  [REDACTED].  Since  my  discharge  I  had  been  living  and  writ-  ing  in  a  five-flight  walkup  off  lower  [REDACTED]-charac-  terized  by  my  girlfriend,  when  she  came  to  share  the  place  and  fix  it  up  a  little,  as  the  home  of  an  unchaste  monk.  To  support  myself  I  crossed  the  river  to  New  Jersey  three  days  a  week  to  a  job  I'd  held  on  and  off  since  my  first  summer  in  college,  when  I'd  answered  an  ad  promising  high  commissions  to  aggres-  sive  salesmen.  At  eight  each  morning  our  crewwas  driven  to  some  New  Jersey  mill  town  to  sell  magazine  subscriptions  door-to-door,  and  at  six  we  were  picked  up  outside  a  des-  ignated  saloon  and  driven  back  to  downtown  [REDACTED]  by  the  overseer,  McElroy.  He  was  a  spiffy  rummy  with  a  hairline  mustache  who  never  tired  of  warning  us-two  high-minded  boys  who  were  putting  away  their  earnings  for  an  education,  and  three  listless  old-  timers,  pale,  puffy  men  wrecked  by  every  conceivable  misfortune-not  to  fool  with  the  housewives  we  found  alone  at  home  in  their  curlers:  you  could  get  your  neck  broken  by  an  irate  husband,  you  could  be  set  up  for  wal-  loping  blackmail,  you  could  catch  any  one  of  fifty  leprous  varieties  of  clap,  and  what  was  more,  there  were  only  so  many  hours  in  the  day.  &quot;Either  get  laid,&quot;  he  coldly  advised  us,  &quot;or  sell  8i/-  ver  Screen.  Take  your  pick.&quot;  &quot;Mam-  mon's  Moses,&quot;  we  two  college  boys  cleverly  called  him.  Since  no  housewife  ever  indicated  a  desire  to  invite  me  into  the  hallway  to  so  much  as  rest  my  feet-and  I  was  vigilantly  on  the  look-  out  for  lasciviousness  flaring  up  in  any  woman  of  any  age  who  seemed  even  half  willing  to  listen  to  me  from  behind  her  screen  door-I  of  necessity  chose  perfection  in  the  work  rather  than  the  life,  and  by  the  end  of  each  long  day  of  canvassing,  had  ten  to  twenty  dollars  in  commissions  to  my  credit  and  an  un-  blemished  future  still  before  me.  It  was  only  a  matter  of  weeks  since  I  had  re-  linquished  this  unhallowed  life-and  the  girlfriend  in  the  five-flight  walkup,  whom  I  no  longer  loved-and,  with  the  help  of  the  distinguished  New  York  editor,  had  been  welcomed  forthe  winter  months  as  a  communicant  at  the  Quahsay  Colony,  the  rural  artists'  re-  treat  across  the  stateline  from  Lon-  off's  mountain.  From  Quahsay  I  had  sent  Lonoff  the  literary  quarterlies  that  had  pub-  lished  my  storiee-four  so  far-along  with  a  letter  telling  him  how  much  he  had  meant  to  me  when  I  came  upon  his  work  &quot;some  years  ago&quot;  in  college.  In  the  same  breath  I  mentioned  coming  upon  his  &quot;kinsmen&quot;  Chekhov  and  Go-  gol,  and  went  on  to  reveal  in  other  un-  mistakable  ways  just  how  serious  a  lit-  erary  fellow  I  was-and  hand  in  hand  with  that,  how  young.  But  then  noth-  ing  I  had  ever  written  put  me  in  such  a  sweat  asthat  letter.  Everything  unde-  niably  true  struck  me  as  transparently  false  as  soon  as  I  wrote  it  down,  and  the  greater  the  effort  to  be  sincere,  the  worse  it  went.  I  finally  sent  him  the  tenth  draft  and  then  tried  to  stick  my  arm  down  the  throat  of  the  mailbox  to  extract  it.  I  wasn't  doing  any  better  in  the  plain  and  cozy  living  room  with  my  autobiography.  Because  I  could  not  bring  myself  to  utter  even  the  mildest  obscenity  in  front  of  Lonoff's  Early  556e6974656420537461746573n  mantelpiece,  my  imitation  of  Mr.  McElroy-a  great  favorite  among  my  friends-didn't  have  much  to  rec-  ommend  it.  Nor  could  I  speak  easily  of  all  McElroy  had  warned  us  against,  or  begin  to  mention  how  tempted  I  would  have  been  to  yield,  if  opportunity  had  only  knocked.  You  would  have  thought,  listening  to  my  bowdlerized  version  of  what  was  a  tepid  enough  little  life  his-  tory,  that  rather  than  having  received  a  warm  and  gracious  letter  from  the  fa-  mous  writer  inviting  me  to  come  and  spend  a  pleasant  evening  in  his  house,  I  had  made  this  journey  to  plead  a  matter  of  utmost  personal  urgency  before  the  most  stringent  of  inquisitors,  and  that  if  I  made  one  wrong  move,  something  of  immeasurable  value  to  me  would  be  lost  forever.  Which  was  pretty  much  the  case,  " b"even  if  I  didn't  completely  understand  as  yet  how  desperate  I  was  for  his  rec-  ognition,  and  why.  Far  from  being  non-  plussed  by  my  bashful,  breathless  deliv-  ery-out  of  character  though  it  was  for  me  in  those  confident  years-I  should  have  been  surprised  to  find  that  I  wasn't  down  on  the  hooked  rug,  suppli-  cating  at  his  feet.  For  I  had  come,  you  see,  to  submit  myself  for  candidacy  as  nothing  less  than  E.  I.  Lonoff's  spiritu-  al  son,  to  petition  for  his  moral  sponsor-  ship  and  to  win,  if  I  could,  the  magical  protection  of  his  advocacy  and  his  love.  Of  course,  I  had  a  loving  father  of  my  own,  whom  I  could  ask  the  world  of  any  day  of  the  week,  but  my  father  was  a  foot  doctor  and  not  an  artist,  and  lately  we  had  been  having  serious  trouble  in  the  family  because  of  a  new  story  of  mine.  He  was  so  bewildered  by  what  I  had  written  that  he  had  gone  running  to  Ais  moral  mentor,  a  certain  Judge  Leopold  Wapter,  to  get  the  judge  to  get  his  son  to  see  the  light.  As  a  result,  after  two  decades  of  a  more  or  less  unbroken  amiable  conversation,  we  had  not  been  speaking  for  nearly  five  weeks  now,  and  I  was  off  and  away  seeking  patriarchal  validation  elsewhere.  And  not  just  from  a  father  who  was  an  artist  instead  of  a  foot  doctor,  but  from  the  most  famous  literary  ascetic  in  [REDACTED],  that  giant  of  pa-  tience  and  fortitude  and  selflessness  who,  in  the  twenty-five  years  between  his  first  book  and  his  sixth  (for  which  he  was  given  a  National  Book  Award  that  he  quietly  declined  to  accept),  had  virtually  no  readership  or  recognition,  and  invariably  would  be  dismissed,  if  and  when  he  was  even  mentioned,  as  some  quaint  remnant  of  the  Old  World  ghetto,  an  out-of-step  folklorist  patheti-  cally  oblivious  of  the  major  currents  of  literature  and  society,  Hardly  anyone  knew  who  he  was  or  where  he  lived,  and  fora  quarter  of  a  century  almost  nobody  cared.  Even  among  his  readers  there  had  been  some  who  thought  that  E,.  I.  Lonoff's  fantasies  about  Ameri-  cans  had  been  written  in  Yiddish  some-  where  inside  czarist  [REDACTED]  before  he  supposedly  died  there  (as  in  fact  his  fa-  ther  had  nearly  perished)  from  injuries  suffered  in  a  pogrom.  What  was  so  admirable  to  me  was  not  only  the  te-  nacity  that  had  kept  him  writing  his  own  kind  of  stories  all  that  time  but  that  having  been  &quot;discovered&quot;  and  popularized,  he  refused  all  awards  and  degrees,  declined  membership  in  all  honorary  institutions,  granted  no  pub-  lic  interviews,  and  chose  not  to  be  pho-  tographed,  as  though  to  associate  his  face  with  his  fiction  were  a  ridiculous  irrelevancy.  The  only  photograph  anyone  in  the reading  public  had  ever  seen  was  the  watery  sepia  portrait  that  had  appeared  in  1927  on  an  inside  jacket  flap  of  &quot;It's  Your  Funeral&quot;:  the  handsome  young  artist  with  the  lyrical  almond  eyes  and  the  dark  prow  of  a  paramour's  pompa-  dour  and  the  kissable,  expressive  under-  lip.  So  different  was  he  now,  not  just  because  of  jowls  and  a  belly  and  the  white-fringed  cranium  but  as  a  human  type  altogether,  that  I  thought  (once  I  began  to  be  able  to  think)  it  had  to  be  something  more  ruthless  than  time  that  accounted  for  the  metamorphosis:  it  would  have  to  be  Lonoff  himself.  Oth-  er  than  the  full,  glossy  eyebrows  and  the  vaguely  heavenward  tilt  of  the  will-  ful  chin,  there  was  really  nothing  at  all  to  identify  him,  at  fifty-six,  with  the  photo  of  the  passionate,  forlorn,  shy  Valentino  who,  in  the  decade  lorded  over  by  the  young  Hemingway  and  Fitzgerald,  had  written  a  collection  of  short  stories  about  wandering  Jews  un-  like  anything  written  before  by  any  Jew  who  had  wandered  into  [REDACTED].  In  fact,  my  own  first  reading  through  Lonoff's  canon-as  an  ortho-  dox  college  atheist  and  highbrow-in-  training-had  done  more  to  make  me  realize  how  much  I  was  still  my  fam-  ily's  Jewish  offspring  than  anything  I  had  carried  forward  to  the  University  of  [REDACTED]  from  childhood  Hebrew  lessons,  or  mother's  kitchen,  or  the  dis-  cussions  I  used  to  hear  among  my  parents  and  our  relatives  about  the  perils  of  intermarriage,  the  problem  of  Santa  Claus,  and  the  injustice  of  medical-  school  quotas  (quotas  that,  as  I  under-  stood  early  on,  accounted  for  my  fa-  ther's  career  in  chiropody  and  his  ar-  dent  lifelong  support  of  the  B'nai  B'rith  Anti-Defamation  League),  As  a  grade-school  kid  I  could  already  de-  bate  these  intricate  issues  with  anyone  (and  did,  when  called  upon);  by  the  time  I  left  for  [REDACTED],  however,  my  passion  had  been  pretty  well  spent  and  I  was  as  ready  as  an  adolescent  could  be  to  fall  headlong  for  Robert  Hutch-  ins'  Humanities  One.  But  then,  along  with  tens  of  thousands  of  others,  I  dis-  covered  E.  I.  Lonoff,  whose  fiction  seemed  to  me  a  response  to  the  same  burden  of  exclusion  and  confinement  that  still  weighed  upon  the  lives  of  those  who  had  raised  me,  and  that  had  informed  our  relentless  household  ob-  session  with  the  status  of  the  Jews.  The  pride  inspired  in  my  parents  by  the  es-  tablishment  in  1948  of  a  homeland  in  [REDACTED]  that  would  gather  in  the  un-  murdered  remnant  of  European  Jewry  was,  in  fact,  not  so  unlike  what  welled  up  in  me  when  I  first  came  upon  Lonoff's  thwarted,  secretive,  imprisoned  souls  and  realizedthat  out  of  every-  thing  humbling  from  which  my  own  striving,  troubled  father  had  labored  to  elevate  us  all,  a  literature  of  such  dour  wit  and  poignancy  could  be  shamelessly  conceived.  To  me  it  was  as  though  the  hallucinatory  strains  in  Gogol  had  been  filtered  through  the  humane  skepticism  of  Chekhov  to  nourish  the  country's  first  &quot;527573736961n&quot;  writer.  Or  so  I  argued  at  great  length  in  the  college  essay  where  I  &quot;analyzed&quot;  Lonoff's  style  but  kept  to  myself  an  explication  of  the  feelings  of  kinship  that  his  stories  had  revived  in  me  for  our  own  largely  " b"   556e6974656420537461746573nized  clan,  moneyless  immi-  grant  shopkeepers  to  begin  with,  who'd  carried  on  with  a  shtetl  life  ten  min-  utes'  walk  from  the  pillared  banks  and  gargoyled  insurance  cathedrals  of  downtown  [REDACTED];  andwhat  is  more,  feelings  of  kinship  for  our  pious,  un-  known  ancestors,  whose  Galician  tribu-  lations  had  been  only  a  little  less  for-  eign  to  me,  while  growing  up  securely  in  New  Jersey,  than  Abraham's  in  the  Land  of  Canaan.  With  his  vaudevil-  lian's  feel  for  legend  and  landscape  (a  Chaplin,  I  said  of  Lonoff  in  my  senior  paper,  who  seized  upon  just  the  right  prop  to  bring  an  entire  society  and  its  outlook  to  life);  with  his  &quot;translated&quot;  English  to  lend  a  mildly  ironic  flavor  to  even  the  most  commonplace  expres-  sion;  with  his  cryptic,  muted,  dreamy  resonance,  the  sense  given  by  such  lit-  tle  stories  of  saying  so  much-well,  I  had  proclaimed,  who  in  556e6974656420537461746573n  lit-  erature  was  like  him?  The  typical  hero  of  a  Lonoff  story-  the  hero  who  came  to  mean  so  much  to  bookish  556e6974656420537461746573ns  in  the  mid-fifties, the  hero  who,  some  ten  years  after  Hitler,  seemed  to  say  something  new  and  wrenching  to  [REDACTED]  about  Jews,  and  to  Jews  about  themselves,  and  to  readers  and  writers  of  that  recupera-  tive  decade  generally  about  the  ambi-  guities  of  prudence  and  the  anxieties  of  disorder,  about  life-hunger,  life-bar-  gains,  and  life-terror  in  their  most  ele-  mentary  manifestations-Lonoff's  hero  is  more  often  than  not  a  nobody  from  nowhere,  away  from  a  home  where  he  is  not  missed,  yet  to  which  he  must  return  without  delay.  His  celebrated  blend  of  sympathy  and  pitilessness  (monumentalized  as  &quot;Lonovian&quot;  by  Time-after  decades  of  ignoring  him  completely)  is  nowhere  more  stunning  than  in  the  stories  where  the  bemused  isolate  steels  himself  to  be  carried  away,  only  to  discover  that  his  meticulous  thoughtfulness  has  caused  him  to  wait  a  little  too  long  to  do  anyone  any  good,  or  that  acting  with  bold  and  unchar-  acteristic  impetuosity,  he  has  totally  misjudged  what  had  somehow  man-  aged  to  entice  him  out  of  his  manage-  able  existence,  and  as  a  result  has  made  everything  worse.  The  grimmest,  funniest,  and  most  unsettling  stories  of  all,  where  the  pitiless  author  seems  to  me  to  teeter  just  at  the  edge  of  self-impalement,  were  written  during  the  brief  period  of  his  literary  glory  (for  he  died  in  1961  of  a  bone-marrow  disease;  and  when  Oswald  shot  Kennedy  and  the  strait,  laced  bulwark  gave  way  to  the  gar-  gantuan  banana  republic,  his  fiction,  and  the  authority  it  granted  to  all  that  is  prohibitive  in  life,  began  rapidly  los-  ing  &quot;relevance&quot;  for  a  new  generation  of  readers).  Rather  than  cheering  him  up,  Lonoff's  eminence  seemed  to  strengthen  his  dourest  imaginings,  con-  firming  for  him  visions  of  terminal  restraint  that  might  have  seemed  in-  sufficiently  supported  by  personal  expe-  rience  had  the  world  denied  him  its  rewards  right  on  down  to  the  end.  Only  when  a  little  of  the  coveted  bounty  was  finally  his  for  the  asking-  only  when  it  became  altogether  clear  how  stupefyingly  unsuited  he  was  to  " b"have  and  to  hold  anything  other  than  his  art-was  he  inspired  to  write  that  brilliant  cycle  of  comic  parables  (the  stories  &quot;Revenge,&quot;  &quot;Lice,&quot;  &quot;Indiana,&quot;  &quot;Eppes  Essen,&quot;  and  &quot;Adman&quot;)  in  which  the  tantalized  hero  does  not  move  to  act  at  all-the  tiniest  impulse  toward  amplitude  or  self-surrender,  let  alone  intrigue  or  adventure,  peremp-  torily  extinguished  by  the  ruling  trium-  virate  of  Sanity,  Responsibility,  and  Self-Respect,  assisted  handily  by  their  devoted  underlings:  the  timetable,  the  rainstorm,  the  headache,  the  busy  sig-  nal,  the  traffic  jam,  and,  most  loyal  of  all,  the  last-minute  doubt.  DID  I  sell  any  magazines  other  than  Photoplay  and  Silver  Screen?  Did  I  usethe  same  line  at  every  door  or  adapt  my  sales  pitch  to  the  customer?  How  did  I  account  for  my  success  as  a  salesman?  W  hat  did  I  think  people  were  after  who  subscribed  to  these  insipid  magazines?  Was  the  work  boring?  Did  anything  unusual  ever  happen  while  I  was  prowling  neighborhoods  I  knew  nothing  about?  How  many  crews  like  Mr.  McElroy's  were  there  in  New  Jersey?  How  could  the  com-  pany  afford  to  pay  me  three  dollars  for  each  subscription  I  sold?  Had  I  ever  been  to  Hackensack?  What  was  it  like?  It  was  difficult  tobelieve  that  what  I  was  doing  merely  to  support  myself  until  I  might  begin  to  live  as  he  did  could  possibly  be  of  interest  to  E.  I.  Lonoff.  He  was  a  courteous  man,  ob-  viously,  and  he  was  trying  his  best  to  put  me  at  ease,  but  I  was  thinking,  even  as  I  gave  my  all  to  his  cross-  examination,  that  it  wasn't  going  to  be  long  before  he  came  up  with  a  way  of  getting  rid  of  me  before  dinner.  &quot;I  wish  I  knew  that  much  about  selling  magazines,&quot;  he  said.  To  indicate  that  it  was  all  right  with  me  if  I  was  being  condescended  to  and  that  I  would  understand  if  I  was  soon  asked  to  leave,  I  went  red.  &quot;I  wish,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;I  knew  that  much  about  anything.  I've  written  fantasy  for  thirty  years,  Nothing  hap-  pens  to  me.&quot;  It  was  here  that  the  striking  girl-  woman  appeared  before  me--just  as  he  had  aired,  in  faintly  discernible  tones  of  self-disgust,  this  incredible  lament  and  I  was  trying  to  grasp  it.  Nothing  happened  to  him?  Why,  ge-  nius  had  happened  to  him,  art  had  hap-  pened  to  him,  the  man  was  a  visionary!  Lonoff's  wife,  the  white-haired  woman  who  had  instantly  removed  herself  after  letting  me  into  the  house,  pushed  open  the  door  of  the  study  across  the  foyer  from  the  living  room,  and  there  she  was,  hair  dark  and  pro-  fuse,  eyes  pale-gray  or  green-and  with  a  high,  prominent  oval  forehead  that  looked  like  Shakespeare's.  She  was  seated  on  the  carpet  amid  a  pile  of  papers  and  folders,  swathed  in  a  New  Look  tweed  skirt-  by  now  a  very  old,  outmoded  look  in  [REDACTED]-and  a  large,  loose-fitting  white  wool  sweater;her  legs  were  drawn  demurely  up  beneath  the  ex-  panse  of  skirt,  and  her  gaze  was  fixed  on  something  that  was  clearly  elsewhere.  Where  had  I  seen  that  severe  dark  beauty  before?  Where  but  in  a  portrait  by  Velazquez?  I  remembered  the  1927  photo-  graph  of  Lonoff-&quot;Spanish&quot;  too  in  its  way-and  immedi-  atelyI  assumed  that  she  was  his  daughter.  Immediately  I  assumed  more  than  that.  Mrs.  Lonoff  had  not  even  set  the  tray  down  on  the  carpet  beside  her  before  I  saw  myself  mar-  ried  to  the  infonte  and  living  in  a  little  farmhouse  of  our  own  not  that  far  away.  Only  how  old  was  she  if  Mama  was  feeding  her  cookies  while  she  finished  her  homework  on  Daddy's  floor?  With  that  face,  whose  strong  bones  looked  to  me  to  have  been  worked  into  alignment  by  a  less  guileless  sculptor  than  nature-with  that  face  she  must  be  more  than  twelve.  Though  if  not,  I  could  wait.  That  idea  appealed  to  me  even  more  than  the  prospect  ofa  mar-  riage  here  in  the  living  room  in  spring.  Showed  strength  of  character,  I  thought.  But  what  would  the  famous  father  think?  He  of  course  wouldn't  need  to  be  reminded  of  the  solid  Old  Testament  precedent  for  waiting  seven  years  before  making  Miss  Lonoff  my  bride;  on  the  other  hand,  how  would  he  take  it  when  he  saw  me  hanging  around  outside  her  high  school  in  my  car?  Meanwhile  he  was  saying  to  me,  &quot;I  turn  sentences  around,  That's  my  life.  I  write  a  sentence  and  then  I  turn  it  around.  Then  I  look  at  it  and  I  turn  it  around  again.  Then  I  have  lunch.  Then  I  come  back  in  and  write  an-  other  sentence.  Then  I  have  tea  and  turn  the  new  sentence  around.  Then  I  read  the  two  sentences  over  and  turn  them  both  around.  Then  I  lie  down  on  my  sofa  and  think.  Then  I  get  up  and  throw  them  out  and  start  from  thebe-  ginning.  And  if  I  knock  off  from  this  routine  for  as  long  as  a  day,  I'm  fran-  tic  with  boredom  and  a  sense  of  waste.  Sundays  I  have  breakfast  late  and  read  the  papers  with  Hope.  Then  we  go  for  a  walk  in  the  hills  and  I'm  haunted  by  the  loss  of  all  that  good  time.  I  wake  up  Sunday  mornings  and  I'm  nearly  crazy  " b"at  the  prospect  of  all  those  unusable  hours.  I'm  restless,  I'm  bad-tempered,  but  she's  a  human  being  too,  you  see,  so  I  go.  To  avoid  troubleshe  makes  me  leave  my  watch  at  home.  The  result  is  that  I  look  at  my  wrist  instead.  We're  walking,  she's  talking,  then  I  look  at  my  wrist-and  that  generally  does  it,  if  my  foul  mood  hasn't  already.  She  throws  in  the  sponge  and  we  come  home.  And  at  home  what  is  there  to  distinguish  Sunday  from  Thursday?  I  sit  back  down  at  my  little  Olivetti  and  start  looking  at  sentences  and  turning  them  around.  And  I  ask  myself,  Why  is  there  no  way  but  this  for  me  to  fill  my  hours?&quot;  By  now  Hope  Lonoff  had  closed  the  study  door  and  returned  to  her  chores.  Together  Lonoff  and  I  listened  to  her  Mixmaster  whirling  in  the  kitchen.  I  didn't  know  what  to  say.  The  life  he  described  sounded  like  paradise  to  me;  that  he  could  think  to  do  nothing  bet-  ter  with  his  time  than  turn  sentences  around  seemed  to  me  a  blessing  be-  stowed  not  only  upon  him  but  upon  world  literature.  I  wondered  if  perhaps  I  was  supposed  to  be  laughing,  despite  the  deadpan  delivery,  at  his  description  of  his  day,  if  it  wasn't  intended  as  mor-  dant  Lonovian  comedy;  though  then  again,  if  he  meant  it  and  was  as  depressed  as  he  sounded,  oughtn't  I  to  re-  mind  him  just  who  he  was  and  how  much  he  mat-  tered  to  literate  mankind?  But  how  could  he  not  know  that?  The  Mixmaster  whirled  and  the  fire  popped  and  the  wind  blew  and  the  trees  groaned  while  I  tried,  at  twenty-three,  to  think  of  how  to  dispel  his  gloom.  His  openness  about  himself,  soat  odds  with  his  formal  attire  and  his  pedantic  man-  ner,  had  me  as  unnerved  as  anything  else;  it  was  hardly  what  I  was  accus-  tomed  to  getting  from  peo-  ple  more  than  twice  my  age,  even  if  what  he  said  about  himself  was  tinged  with  self-satire.  Especially  if  it  was  tinged  with  self-  satire.  &quot;I  wouldn't  even  try  to  write  after  my  tea  any-  more  if  I  knew  what  to  do  with  myself  forthe  rest  of  the  afternoon.&quot;  He  explained  to  me  that  by  three  o'clock  he  no  longer  had  the  strength  or  the  de-  termination  or  even  the  desireto  go  on.  Butwhat  else  was  there?  If  he  played  the  violin  or  the  piano,  thenhe  might  have  had  some  serious  activity  other  than  reading  to  occupy  him  when  he  was  not  writing.  The  problem  with  just  listening  to  music  was  that  if  he  sat  alone  with  a  record  in  the  afternoon,  he  soon  found  himself  turning  the  sen-  tences  around  in  his  head  and  eventual-  ly  wound  up  back  at  his  desk  again,  skeptically  looking  at  his  day's  work.  Of  course,  to  his  great  good  fortune,  there  was  Athene  College.  He  spoke  with  devotion  of  the  students  in  the  two  classes  that  he  taught  there.  The  little  Stockbridge  school  had  made  a  place  for  him  on  the  faculty  some  twenty  years  before  the  rest  of  the  aca-  demic  world  suddenly  became  inter-  ested,  and  for  that  he  would  always  be  grateful.  But  in  truth,  after  so  many  years  of  teaching  these  bright  and  live-  ly  young  women,  both  he  and  they,  he  found,  had  begun  to  repeat  themselves  a  little.  &quot;Why  not  takea  sabbatical?&quot;  I  was  not  a  little  thrilled,  after  all  I  had  been  through  in  my  first  fifteen  minutes,  to  hear  myself  telling  E.  I.  Lonoff  how  to  live.  &quot;I  took  a  sabbatical.  It  was  worse.  We  rented  a  flat  in  [REDACTED]  for  a  year.  Then  I  had  every  day  to  write.  Plus  Hope  being  miserable  because  I  wouldn't  go  around  with  her  to  look  at  the  buildings.  No-no  more  sabbati-  cals.  Thisway,  at  least  two  afternoons  a  week  I  have  to  stop,  no  questions  asked.  Besides,  going  to  the  college  is  the  high  point  of  my  week.  I  carry  a  briefcase.  I  wear  a  hat.  I  nod  hello  to  people  on  the  stairway.  I  use  a  public  toilet.  Ask  Hope.  I  come  home  reeling  from  the  pandemonium.&quot;  &quot;Are  there  no  children-of  your  own?&quot;  The  phone  began  ringing  in  the  kitchen.  Ignoring  it,  he  informed  me  that  the  youngest  of  their  three  chil-  dren  had  graduated  from  Wellesley  several  years  before;  he  and  his  wife  had  been  alone  together  now  for  more  than  six  years.  So  the  girl  isn't  his  daughter.  Who  is  she  then,  being  served  snacks  by  his  wife  on  the  floor  of  his  study?  His  con-  cubine?  Ridiculous,  the  word,  the  very  idea-but  there  it  was,  obscuring  all  other  reasonable  and  worthy  thoughts.  Among  the  rewards  you  got  for  being  a  great  artist  was  the  concubinage  of  Velazquez  princesses  and  the  awe  of  young  men  like  me.  I  felt  at  a  loss" b"again,  having  such  ignoble  expectations  in  the  presence  of  my  literary  con-  science-though  weren't  they  just  the  kind  of  ignoble  expectations  that  trou-  bled  the  masters  of  renunciation  inso  many  of  Lonoff's  short  stories?  Really,  who  knew  better  thanE.  I.  Lonoff  that  it  is  not  our  high  purposes  alone  that  make  us  moving  creatures,  but  our  humble  needs  and  cravings?  Nonethe-  less,  it  seemed  to  me  a  good  idea  to  keep  my  humble  needs  and  cravings  to  myself.  The  kitchen  door  opened  a  few  inches,  and  his  wife  said  softly,  &quot;For  you.&quot;  \xc2\xabWho  is  it?  Not  the  genius  again.&quot;  &quot;Would  I  have  said  you  were  here?&quot;  &quot;You  have  to  learn  to  tell  people  no.  People  like  that  make  fifty  calls  a  day.  Inspiration  strikes  and  they  go  for  the  phone.&quot;  &quot;It's  not  him.&quot;  &quot;He  has  the  right  wrong  opinion  on  everything.  A  head  full  of  ideas,  every  one  of  them  stupid.  Why  does  he  hit  me  when  he  talks?  Why  must  he  understand  everything?  Stop  fixing  me  up  with  intellectuals.  I  don't  think  fast  enough.&quot;  &quot;I've  said  I  was  sorry.  And  it's  not  him.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Who  is  it?&quot;  &quot;Willis.&quot;  &quot;Hope,  here.&quot;  I'm  talking  to  Nathan  &quot;I'm  sorry,  I'll  tell  him  you're  working.&quot;  &quot;Don't  use  work  as  an  excuse,  I  don't  buy  that.&quot;  &quot;I  can  tell  him  you  have  a  guest.&quot;  &quot;Please,&quot;  I  said,  meaning  I  was  no  One,  not  even  a  guest,  &quot;All  that  wonder,&quot;  said  Lonoff  to  his  wife.  &quot;Always  so  greatly  moved.  Always  on  the  brink  of  tears.  What  is  he  so  compassionate  about  all  the  time?&quot;  &quot;'You,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;All  that  sensitivity.  Why  does  any-  body  want  to  be  so  sensitive?&quot;  &quot;He  admires  you,&quot;  she  said.  Buttoning  his  jacket,  Lonoff  roseto  take  the  unwanted  call.  &quot;Either  it's  the  professional  innocents,&quot;  he  ex-  plained  to  me,  &quot;or  the  deep  thinkers.&quot;  I  extended  my  sympathy  with  a  shrug,  wondering  of  course  if  my  let-  ter  hadn't  qualified  me  in  both  cate-  gories.  Then  I  wondered  again  about  the  girl  behind  the  study  door.  Does  she  live  at  the  college  or  is  she  here  with  the  Lonofifs  on  a  visit  from  537061696e?  Will  she  ever  be  coming  out  of  that  study?  If  not,  how  do  I  go  in?  If  not,  how  can  I  arrange  to  see  her  again  by  myself?  I  must  see  you  again.  I  opened  a  magazine,  the  better  to  dispel  my  insidious  daydreams  and  wait  there  like  a  thoughtful  man  of  letters.  Leafing  through  the  pages,  I  came  across  an  article  about  the  Algerian political  situation  and  another  about  the  television  industry,  both  of  which  had  been  underlined  throughout.  Read  in  sequence,  the  underlinings  formed  a  perfect  pr\xc3\xa9cis  of  each  piece  and  would  have  served  a  schoolchild  as  excellent  preparation  for  a  report  to  his  current-  events  class.  When  Lonoff  emerged-in  under  a  minute-from  the  kitchen,  he  immedi-  ately  undertook  to  explain  about  the  Harper's  in  my  hand.  &quot;My  mind  strays,&quot;  he  told  me,  rather  as  though  I  were  a  physician  who  had  stopped  by  to  ask  about  his  strange  and  trou-  bling  new  symptoms.  &quot;At  the  end  of  the  page  I  try  to  summarize  to  myself  what  I've  read,  and  my  mind  is  a  blank-I've  been  sitting  in  my  chair  doing  nothing.  Of  course,  I  have  al-  ways  read  books  with  pen  in  hand,  but  now  I  find  that  if  I  don't,  even  while  reading  magazines,  my  attention  is  not  on  what's  in  front  of  me.&quot;  Here  she  appeared  again.  But  what  had  seemed  from  a  distance  like  beau-  ty  pure  and  severe  and  simple  was  more  of  a  puzzle  up  close.  When  she  crossed  the  foyer  into  the  living  room-entering  justas  Lonoff  had  ended  his  fastidious  description  of  the  disquieting  affliction  that  came  over  him  when  he  read  magazines-I  saw  that  the  striking  head  had  been  con-  ceived  on  a  much  grander  and  more  ambitious  scale  than  the  torso.  The  bulky  sweater  and  the  pounds  and  pounds  of  tweed  skirt  did  much,  of  course,  to  obscure  the  little  of  her  there  was,  but  mostly  it  was  the  drama  of  that  face,  combined  with  the  softness  and  intelligence  in  her  large  pale  eyes,  that  ren-  dered  all  other  physical  attributes  (excluding  the  heavy,  curling  hair)  blurry  and  in-  consequential.  Admit,  tedly  the  rich  calm  of  those  eyes  would  have  been  enough  to  make  me  wilt  with  shyness,  -  but  that  I  couldn't  re-  turn  her  gaze  directly  had  also  to  do  with  this  unharmonious  re-  lation  between  body  and  skull,  and  its  im-  plication,  to  me,  of  some  early  misfortune,  of  something  vital  lost  or  beaten  down  and,  by  way  of  compensation,  something  vastly  over-  done.  I  thought  of  a  " b"trapped  chick  that  could  not  get  more  than  its  beaked  skull  out  ofthe  encircling  shell.  I  thought  of  those  macrocephalic  boulders  the  Easter  Island  heads.  I  thought  of  febrile  patients  on  the  verandas  of  Swiss  sanatoria,  imbibing  the  magic-mountain  air.  But  let  me  not  exaggerate  the  pathos  and  originality  of  my  impressions,  especially  as  they  were  subsumed  soon  enough  in  my  unoriginal  and  irrepressible  preoccu-  pation:  mostly  I  thought  of  the  triumph  it  would  be  to  kiss  that  face,  and  the  ex-  citement  of  her  kissing  me  back.  &quot;Done,&quot;  she  announced  to  Lonoff,  &quot;for  now.&quot;  His  look  of  wistful  solici-  tude  made  me  wonder  if  she  could  be  his  grend-  daughter.  All  at  once  he  seemed  the  most  approach-  able  of  men,  relieved  of  ev-  ery  care  and  burden.  Per-  haps,  I  thought-still  try-  ing  to  explain  some  oddness  in  her  that  I  couldn't  iden-  tify-she  is  the  child  of  a  daughter  of  his  own  who  is  dead.  &quot;This  is  Mr.  Zucker-  man,  the  short-story  writer,&quot;  he  said,  teasing  sweetly,  like  my  grandfather  now.  &quot;I  gave  you  his  collected  works  to  read.&quot;  I  rose  and  shook  her  hand.  &quot;'This  is  Miss  Bellette.  She  was  once  a  student  here.  She  has  been  staying  with  us  for  a  few  days,  and  has  taken  it  upon  herself  to  begin  sorting  through  my  manuscripts.  'There  is  a  movement  afoot  to  persuade  me  to  deposit  with  Harvard  University  the  pieces  of  paper  on  which  I  turn  my  sentences  around.  Amy  works  forthe  Harvard  library.  The  Athene  library  has  just  extended  her  an  exceptional  offer,  but  she  tells  us  she  is  tied  to  her  life  in  [REDACTED].  Meanwhile  she  has  cunningly  been  us-  ing  the  visit  to  try  to  persuade  me-&quot;  &quot;No,  no,  no,&quot;  she  said  emphatically.  &quot;If  you  see  it  that  way,  my  cause  is  doomed.&quot;  As  if  she  hadn't  charm  enough,  Miss  Bellette's  speech  was  made  melodious  by  a  faint  foreign  ac-  cent.  &quot;The  maestro,&quot;  she  explained,  turning  my  way,  &quot;is  by  temperament  counter-suggestible.&quot;  &quot;And  counter  that,&quot;  he  moaned,  registering  a  mild  protest  against  the  psychological  lingo.  &quot;I've  just  found  twenty-seven  drafts ofa  single  short  story,&quot;  she  told  me.  \xc2\xab&quot;Which  story?&quot;  I  asked  eagerly.  &quot;  Life  Is  Embarrassing.  &quot;  &quot;To  get  it  wrong,&quot;  said  Lonoff,  &quot;so  many  times.&quot;  &quot;''They  ought  to  construct  a  monu-  ment  to  your  patience,&quot;  she  told  him.  He  gestured  vaguely  toward  the  crescent  of  plumpness  buttoned  in  be-  neath  his  jacket.  &quot;They  have.&quot;  &quot;In  class,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;he  used  to  tell  the  writing  students,  'There  is  no  life  without  patience.'  None  of  us  knew  what  he  was  talking  about.&quot;  &quot;You  knew.  You  had  to  know.  My  dear  young  lady,  I  learned  that  from  watching  you.&quot;  &quot;But  I  can't  wait  for  anything,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;But  you  do.&quot;  &quot;Bursting  with  frustration  all  the  while.&quot;  &quot;If  you  weren't  bursting,&quot;  her  teacher  informed  her,  &quot;you  wouldn't  need  patience.&quot;  At  the  hall  closet  she  stepped  out  of  the  loafers  she'd  worn  into  the  living  room  and  slipped  on  white  woollen  socks  and  a  pair  of  red  snow  boots.  Then  from  a  hanger  she  took  down  a  plaid  hooded  jacket,  into  whose  sleeve  was  tucked  a  white  wool  cap  with  a  long  tassel  that  ended  in  a  fluffy  white  ball.  Having  seen  her  only  seconds  be-  fore  banter  so  easily  with  the  celebrated  writer-having  myself  felt  ever  so  slightly  drawn  into  the  inner  circle  by  her  easy,  confident  way  with  him-I  was  surprised  by  the  childish  hat.  The  costume,  now  that  she  had  it  on,  seemed  like  a  little  girl's.  That  she  could  act  so  wise  and  dress  up  so  young  mystified  me.  Along  with  Lonoff  I  stood  in  the  open  doorway  waving  goodbye.  I  was  now  in  awe  of  two  people  in  this  house.  There  was  still  more  wind  than  snow,  but  in  Lonoff's  orchard  the  light  had  all  but  seeped  away,  and  the  sound  of  what  was  on  its  way  was  menacing.  T  wo  dozen  wild  old  apple  trees  stood  as  first  barrier  between  the  bleak  un-  paved  road  and  the  farmhouse.  Next  came  a  thick  green  growth  of  rhodo-  dendron,  then  a  wide  stone  wall  fallen  in  like  a  worn  molar  at  the  center,  then  some  fifty  feet  of  snow-crusted  lawn,  and  finally,  drawn  up  close  to  the  house  and  protectively  overhanging  the  shin-  gles,  three  maples  that  looked  from  their  sizeto  be  as  old  as  New  [REDACTED].  In  back,  the  house  gave  way  to  un-  " b"protected  fields,  drifted  over  since  the  first  December  blizzards.  From  there  the  wooded  hills  began  their  impressive  rise-undulating  forest  swells  that  just  kept  climbing  into  the  next  state.  My  guess  was  that  it  would  take  even  the  fiercest  Hun  the  better  part  of  a  win-  ter  to  cross  the  glacial  waterfalls  and  wind-blasted  woods  of  those  mountain  wilds  before  he  was  able  to  reach  the  open  edge  of  Lonoff's  hayfields,  rush  the  rear  storm  door  of  the  house,  crash  through  into  the  study,  and  with  spiked  bludgeon  wheeling  high  in  the  air  above  the  little  Olivetti,  cry  out  in  a  roar-  ing  voice  to  the  writer  tapping  out  his  twenty-seventh  draft,  &quot;You  must  change  your  life!&quot;  And  even  he  might  lose  heart  and  turn  back  to  the  bosom  of  his  barbarian  family  should  he  ap-  proach  those  black  [REDACTED]  hills  on  a  night  like  this,  with  the  cocktail  hour  at  hand  and  another  snowstorm  arriving  from  Ultima  Thule.  No,  for  the  moment,  at  least,  Lonoff  seemed  reallyto  have  nothing  to  worry  about  from  the  outside  world.  We  watched  from  the  front  step  un-  til  Lonoff  was  sure  that  she  had  cleared  both  the  windshield  and  rear  window;  snow  had  already  be-  gun  adhering  to  the  icy  glass.  &quot;Drive  very  slowly,&quot;  he  called.  To  get  into  the  dimin-  utive  green  Renault  she  had  to  hike  up  a  handful  of  long  skirt.  Above  the  snow  boots  I  saw  an  inch  of  flesh,  and  quickly  looked  else-  where  soas  not  to  be  found  out.  &quot;'Yes,  be  careful,&quot;  I  called  to  her,  in  the  guise  of  Mr.  Zucker-  man  the  short-story  writer.  &quot;It's  slippery,  it's  deceptive.&quot;  &quot;She  has  a  remark-  able  prose  style,&quot;  Lon-  off  said  to  me  when  we  were  back  inside  the  house.  &quot;The  best  stu-  dent  writing  I've  ever  read.  Wonderful  clari-  ty.  Wonderful  comedy.  Tremendous  intelli-  gence.  She  wrote  sto-  ries  about  the  college  which  capture  the  place  in  a  sentence.  Every-  thing  she  sees,  she  takes  hold  of.  And  a  lovely  pianist.  She  can  play  Chopin  with  great  charm.  She  used  to  practice  on  our  daughter's  piano  when  she  first  came  to  Athene.  That  was  something  I  looked  forward  to  at  the  end  of  the  day.&quot;  &quot;She  seems  to  be  quite  a  girl,&quot;  I  said  thoughtfully.  &quot;Where  is  she  from  originally?&quot;  &quot;She  came  to  us  from  [REDACTED].&quot;  &quot;But  the  accent  ...?&quot;  &quot;That,&quot;  he  allowed,  &quot;is  from  the  country  of  Fetching.&quot;  &quot;I  agree,&quot;  I  dared  to  say,  and  thought,  Enough  shyness  then,  enough  boyish  uncertainty  and  tongue-tied  def-  erence.  This,  after  all,  is  the  author  of  &quot;Life  Is  Embarrassing&quot;-if  he  doesn't  know  the  score,  who  does?  Standing  by  the  fire,  the  two  of  us  warming  ourselves,  I  turned  to  Lonoff  and  said,  &quot;I  don't  think  I  could  keep  my  wits  about  me,  teaching  at  a  school  with  such  beautiful  and  gifted  and  fetching  girls.&quot;  To  which  he  replied  flatly,  &quot;Then  you  shouldn't  do  it.&quot;  SURP  RISE-yes,  yet  another-  awaited  me  when  we  sat  down  to  dinner.  Lonoff  uncorked  a  bottle  of  Chianti  that  had  been  waiting  for  us  on  the  table  and  proposed  a  toast.  Signalling  his  wife  to  raise  her  glass  along  with  his,  he  said,  &quot;To  a  wonder-  ful  new  writer.&quot;  Well,  that  loosened  me  up.  Excited-  ly,  I  began  talking  about  my  month  at  Quahsay,  how  much  I  loved  the  serenity  and  beauty  of  the  place,  how  I  loved  walking  the  trails  there  at  the  end  of  the  day  and  reading  in  my  room  at  night-rereading  Lonoff  of  late,  but  that  I  kept  to  myself.  From  his  toast  it  was  obvious  that  I  had  not  lost  as  much  ground  as  I  feared  by  confess-  ing  to  the  lure  of  clever,  pretty  college  girls,  and  I  did  not  want  to  risk  offend-  ing  him  anew  by  seeming  to  fawn.  The  fawning,  supersensitive  Willis,  I  remembered,  had  been  given  less  than  sixty  seconds  on  the  phone.  Itold  the  Lonoffs  about  the  joy  of  awakening  each  day  knowing  there  were  all  those  empty  hours  ahead  to  be  filled  only  with  work.  Never  as  a  stu-  dent  or  a  soldier  or  a  door-to-door  salesman  did  I  have  regular  stretches  of  uninterrupted  time  to  devote  to  writ-  ing,  nor  had  I  ever  lived  in  such  quiet  and  seclusion,  or  with  my  few  basic  needs  so  unobtrusively  satisfied  as  they  were  by  the  Quahsay  housekeeping  staff.  It  all  seemed  to  me  a  marvellous,  a  miraculous  gift.  Just  a  few  evenings  before,  after  a  day-long  snow-  storm,  I  had  accom-  panied  the  colony  handyman  when  he  set  out  after  dinner  on  the  snowplow  to  clear  the  trails  that  twisted  for  miles  through  the  Quahsay  woods.  I  described  for  the  Lonoffs  my  exhila-  ration  at  watching  the  snow  crest  in  the  head-  lamps  of  the  truck  and  then  fall  away  into  the  forest;  the  bite  of  the  cold  and  the  smack  of  the  tire  chains  had  seemed  to  me  all  I  could  ever  want  at  the  end  of  a  long  day  at  my  Olivetti. I supposed I  was  being  profession-  ally  innocent  despite  myself,  but  I  couldn't  stop  going  on  about  my  hours  on  the  snowplow  after  the  hours  at  my  desk:  it  wasn't  just  that  I  wanted  to  convince  " b"Lonoff  of  my  pure  and  in-  corruptible  spirit-my  prob-  lem  was  that  I  wanted  to  believe  it  myself.  My  prob-  lem  was  that  I  wanted  to  be  wholly  worthy  of  his  thrilling  toast.  &quot;I  could  live  like  that  forever,&quot;  I  an-  nounced.  &quot;Don't  try  it,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;If  your  life  consists  of  reading  and  writing  and  looking  at  the  snow,  you'll  wind  up  like  me.  Fantasy  for  thirty  years.&quot;  Lonoff  made  &quot;Fantasy&quot;  sound  like  a  breakfast  ce-  real.  Here  for  the  first  time  his  wife  spoke  up-though  given  the  self-effacing  de-  livery,  &quot;spoke  down&quot;  would  be  more  exact.  She  was  a  smallish  woman  with  gen-  tle  gray  eyes  and  soft  white  hair  and  a  multitude  of  finelines  crisscrossing  her  pale  skin.  Though  she  could  well  have  been,  as  the  amused  literati  had  it,  Lonoff's  &quot;highborn  Yan-  kee  heiress&quot;-and  an  excel-  lent  example  of  the  species  at  its  most  maidenly-what  she  looked  like  now  was  some  frontier  survivor,  the  wife  of  a  New  [REDACTED]  farmer  who  long  ago  rodeout  of  those  mountains  to  make  a  new  start  in  the  West.  To  me  the  lined  face  and  the  shadowy,  tim-  orous  manner  bore  witness  to  a  grind-  ing  history  of  agonized  childbearing  and  escapes  from  the  Indians,  of  fam-  ine  and  fevers  and  wagon-train  aus-  terities-I  just  couldn't  believe  that  she  could  look  so  worn  down  from  living  alongside  E.  I.  Lonoff  while  he  wrote  short  stories  for  thirty  years.  I  was  to  learn  that  aside  from  two  terms  at  a  [REDACTED]  art  school  and  a  few  months  in  New  York-and  the  year  in  [REDACTED]  trying  to  get  Lonoff  to  Westminster  Abbey-Hope  had  strayed  no  farther  than  had  the  locally  prominent  lawyers  and  clergymen  who  were  her  forebears,  and  whose  legacyby  now  came  to  nothing  more  tangible  than  one  of  the  Berkshires'  &quot;best&quot;  names  and  the  house  that  went  with  it.  She  had  met  Lonoff  when  he  came  at  the  age  of  seventeen  to  work  for  a  chicken  farmer  in  Lenox.  He  himself  had  been  raised  just  outside  [REDACTED],  though  until  he  was  five  lived  in  Rus-  sia.  After  his  father,  a  jeweller,  nearly  died  from  injuries  suffered  in  the  bloody  Zhitomir  pogrom,  Lonoff's  parents  emigrated  to  primitive  [REDACTED].  There  typhus  carried  them  both  away,  and  the  son  was  cared  for  by  family  friends  in  a  Jewish  farming  settlement.  At  sevenhe  was  shipped  alone  from  Jaffa  to  wealthy  relatives  of  his  father's  in  [REDACTED];  at  seventeen  he  chose  vagabondage  over  college  at  the  rela-  tives'  expense;  and  then  at  twenty  he  chose  Hope-the  rootless  Levantine  Valentino  taking  as  his  mate  a  cultivat-  ed  young  provincial  woman,  bound  to  the  finer  things  by  breeding  and  tem-  perament,  and  to  a  settled  place  by  old  granite  gravestones,  church-meeting-  house  plaques,  and  a  long  mountain  road  bearing  the  name  Whittlesey:  somebody  from  somewhere,  for  all  the  good  that  was  to  do  him.  Despite  everything  that  gave  Hope  Lonoff  the  obedient  air  of  an  aging  geisha  when  she  dared  to  speak  or  to  move,  I  still  wondered  if  she  was  not  going  to  remind  him  that  his  life  had  consisted  of  something  more  than  read-  ing  and  writing  and  looking  at  snow:  it  had  also  consisted  of  her  and  the  children.  But  there  was  not  the  hint  of  a  reprimand  in  her  unchallenging  voice  when  she  said,  &quot;You  shouldn't  express  such  a  low  opinion  of  your  achievement.  It's  not  becoming.&quot;  Even  more  delicately  she  added,  &quot;And  it's  not  true.&quot;  Lonoff  lifted  his  chin.  &quot;I  was  not  measuring  my  achievement.  I  have  neither  too  high  nor  too  low  an  esti-  mate  of  my  work,  I  believe  I  know  exactly  wherein  my  value  and  original-  ity  lie.  I  know  where  I  can  go  and  just  how  far,  without  making  a  mockery  of  the  thing  we  all  love.  I  was  only  sug-  gesting-surmising  is  more  like  it-  that  an  unruly  personal  life  will  prob-  ably  better  servea  writer  like  Nathan  than  walking  in  the  woods  and  startling  the  deer.  His  work  has  turbulence-  that  should  be  nourished,  and  not  in  the  woods.  All  I  was  trying  to  say  is  that  he  oughtn't  to  stifle  what  is  clearly  his  gift.&quot;  &quot;I'm  sorry,&quot;  replied  his  wife.  &quot;I  didn't  understand.  I  thought  you  were  expressing  distaste  for  your  own  work.&quot;  &quot;Work&quot;  she  pronounced  in  the  accent  of  her  region,  without  the  &quot;r.&quot;  &quot;I  was  expressing  distaste,&quot;  said  Lonoff,  employing  that  pedantic  tone  he'd  taken  with  Amy  on  the  subject  of  her  patience,  and  with  me,  describing  his  light-reading  problem,  &quot;but  not  for  the  work.  I  was  expressing  distaste  for  the  range  of  my  imagination.&quot;  With  a  self-effacing  smile  designed  " b"to  atone  on  the  spot  for  her  audacity,  Hope  said,  &quot;Your  imagination  or  your  experience?&quot;  &quot;I  long  ago  gave  up  illusions  about  myself  and  experience.&quot;  She  pretended  to  be  brushing  the  crumbs  from  around  the  breadboard-  that  and  no  more-while  with  unfore-  seen,  somewhat  inexplicable  insistence  she  softly  confessed,  &quot;I  never  quite  know  what  that  means.&quot;  &quot;It  means  I  know  who  I  am.  I  know  the  kind  of  man  I  am  and  the  kind  of  writer.  I  have  my  own  kind  of  bravery,  and,  please,  let's  leave  it  at  that.&quot;  She  decided  to.  I  remembered  my  food  and  began  to  eat  again.  &quot;Do  you  have  a  girlfriend?&quot;  Lonoff  asked  me.  I  explained  the  situation-to  the  ex-  tent  that  I  was  willing  to.  Betsy  had  found  out  about  me  and  a  girl  she  had  known  since  ballet  school.  The  two  of  us  had  kissed  over  a  glass  of  Gallo  in  the  kitchen,  playfully  she  had  shown  me  the  tip  of  her  wine-  stained  tongue,  and  I,  quick  to  take  heart,  had  pulled  herout  of  her  chair  and  down  beside  the  sink.  This  took  place  one  evening  when  Betsy  was  off  dancing  at  the  City  Center  and  the  friend  had  stopped  by  to  pick  up  a  record  and  investigate  a  flirtation  we'd  begun  some  months  earlier,  when  Bet-  sy  was  away  touring  with  the  company.  On  my  knees,  I  struggled  to  unclothe  her;  not  resisting  all  that  strenuously,  she,  on  her  knees,  told  me  what  a  bas-  tard  I  was  to  be  doing  this  to  Betsy.  I  refrained  from  suggesting  that  she  might  be  less  than  honorable  herself;  trading  insults  while  in  heat  wasn't  my  brand  of  aphrodisia,  and  I  was  afraid  of  a  fiasco  if  I  should  try  it  and  get  carried  away.  So,  shouldering  the  bur-  den  of  perfidy  for  two,  I  pinned  her  pelvis  to  the  kitchen  linoleum,  while  she  continued,  through  moist,  smiling  lips,  to  inform  me  of  my  character  flaws.I  was  then  at  the  stage  of  my  erotic  de-  velopment  when  nothing  excited  me  as  much  as  having  intercourse  on  the  floor.  Betsy  was  a  romantic,  excitable,  high-strung  girl  who  could  be  left  quivering  by  the  backfiring  of  a  car  -so  when  thefriend  intimated  over  the  phone  to  her  a  few  days  later  that  I  wasn't  to  be  trusted,  it  nearly  de-  stroyed  her.  It  was  a  bad  time  for  her  anyway.  Yet  another  of  her  rivals  had  been  cast  asa  cygnet  in  &quot;Swan  Lake,&quot;  and  so,  four  years  after  having  been  enlisted  by  Balanchine  as  a  seven-  teen-year-old  of  great  promise,  she  had  yet  to  rise  out  of  the  corps  and  it  didn't  look  to  her  now  as  though  she  ever  would.  And  how  she  worked  to  be  the  best!  Her  art  was  everything,  a  point  of  view  no  less  beguiling  to  me  than  the  large,  painted,  gypsy-girl  eyes  and  the  small,  unpainted,  she-monkey  face,  and  those  elegant,  charming  tab-  leaux  she  could  achieve,  even  when  en-  gaged  in  something  so  aesthetically  un-  promising  as,  half  asleep  in  the  middle  of  the  night,  taking  alonely  pee  in  my  bathroom.  When  we  were  first  intro-  duced  in  New  York,  I  knew  nothing  about  ballet  and  had  never  seen  a  real  dancer  on  the  stage,  let  alone  off.  An  Army  friend  who'd  grown  up  next  door  to  Betsy  in  Riverdale  had  gotten  us  tickets  for  a  Tchaikovsky  extrava-  ganza,  and  then  arranged  for  a  girl  who  was  dancing  in  it  to  have  coffee  with  us  around  the  corner  from  the  City  Center  that  afternoon.  Fresh  from  rehearsal  and  enchantingly  full  of  her-  self,  Betsy  amused  us  by  recounting  the  horrors  of  her  self-sacrificing  voca-  tion-a  cross,  as  she  described  it,  be-  tween  the  life  of  a  boxer  and  the  life  of  a  nun.  And  the  worrying!  She  had  begun  studying  at  the  age  of  eight  and  had  been  worrying  ever  since  about  her  height  and  her  weight  and  her  ears  and  her  injuries  and  her  rivals  and  her  chances-right  now  she  was  in  absolute  terror  about  tonight.  I  myself  couldn't  see  that  she  had  reason  to  be  anxious  about  anything  (least  of  all  those  ears),  so  entranced  was  I  already  by  the  dedi-  cation  and  the  glamour.  At  the  theatre,  I  unfortunately  couldn't  remember-  once  the  music  had  begun  and  dozens  of  dancers  rushed  onstage-whether  earlier  she  had  told  us  that  she  was  one  of  the  girls  in  lavender  with  a  pink  flower  in  their  hair  or  one  of  the  girls  in  pink  with  a  lavender  flower  in  their  hair,  and  so  I  spent  most  of  the  evening  just  trying  to  find  her.  Each  time  I  thought  that  the  legs  and  arms  I  was  " b"watching  were  Betsy's,  I  be-  came  so  elated  I  wanted  to  cheer-but  then  another  pack  of  ten  came  streaking  across  the  stage  and  I  thought,  No,  there,  that's  her.  &quot;You  were  wonderful,&quot;  I  told  her  afterward.  &quot;Yes?  Did  you  like  my  little  solo?  It's  not  actually  a  solo-it  lasts  only  about  fifteen  sec-  onds.  But  I  do  think  it's  aw-  fully  charming.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  thought  it  was  terrific,'  I  said,  &quot;it  seemed  like  more  than  fifteen  seconds  to  me.&quot;  A  year  later  our  artistic  and  amatory  alliance  came  to  an  end  when  I  confessed  that  the  mutual  friend  had  not  been  the  first  girl  to  be  dragged  onto  the  floor  while  Betsy  was  safely  off  dancing  her  heart  out  and  I  had  night-  time  hours  withnothing  to  do  and  nobody  to  stop  me.  I  had  been  at  this  for  some  time  now  and,  I  admitted,  it  was  no  way  to  be  treating  her.  Bold  honesty,  of  course,  produced  far  more  terrible  results  than  if  I  had  only  confessed  to  se-  ducing  the  wily  seductress  and  left  it  at  that;  nobody  had  asked  me  about  anybody  else.  But  carried  away  by  the  idea  that  if  I  were  a  perfidious  brute,  I  at  least  would  be  a  truth-  ful  perfidious  brute,  I  was  crueller  than  was  either  necessary  or  intend-  ed.  In  a  fit  of  penitential  gloom,  I  fled  from  New  York  to  Quahsay,  where  eventually  I  managed  to  absolve  myself  of  the  sin  of  lust  and  the  crime  ofbetrayal  by  watching  from  behind  the  blade  of  the  snowplow  as  it  cleared  the  colony  roads  for  my  solitary  and  euphoric  walks-walks  during  which  I  did  not  hesitate  to  embrace  trees  and  kneel  down  and  kiss  the  glistening  snow,  so  bursting  was  I  with  a  sense  of  gratitude  and  freedom  and  renewal.  Of  all  this,  I  told  the  Lonoffs  only  the  charming  part  about  how  we  had  met  and  also  that  now,  sadly,  my  girl-  friend  and  I  were  trying  a  temporary  separation.  Otherwise  I  portrayed  her  in  such  uxorious  detail  that,  along  with  the  unnerving  sense  that  I  might  be  laying  it  on  a  little  thick  for  this  old  married  couple,I  wound  up  in  wonder  at  the  idiot  I  had  been  to  relinquish  her  love.  Describing  all  her  sterling  quali-  ties,  I  had  infact  brought  myself  near-  ly  to  thepointof  grief,  as  though  in-  stead  of  wailing  with  pain  and  telling  me  to  leave  and  never  come  back,  the  unhappy  dancer  had  died  in  my  arms  on  our  wedding  day.  Hope  Lonoff  said,  &quot;I  knew  that  she  was  a  dancer  from  The  Scturday  Re-  view.&quot;  The  Saturday  Review  had  published  an  article  on  [REDACTED]'s  young,  un-  known  writers-photographs  and  thumbnail  sketches  of  &quot;A  Dozen  to  Keep  Your  Eye  On,&quot;  selected  by  the  editors  of  the  major  literary  quarter-  lies.  I  had  been  photographed  playing  with  Nijinsky,  our  cat;  I  had  con-  fessed  to  the  interviewer  that  my  &quot;friend&quot;  was  with  the  New  York  City  [REDACTED];  and  when  asked  to  name  the  three  living  writers  I  admired  most,  I  had  listed  E.  I.  Lonoff  first.  I  was  disturbed  to  think  that  this  must  have  been  the  first  Lonoff  had  heard  of  me-though,  admittedly,  while  answering  the  interviewer's  im-  possible  questions,  I  had  been  hoping  that  my  comment  might  bring  my  work  to  his  attention.  'The  morning  the  magazine  appeared  on  the  news-  stands,I  must  have  read  the  bit  about  &quot;N.  Zuckerman&quot;  fifty  times  over.  I  tried  to  put  in  my  self-prescribed  six  hours  at  the  typewriter  but  got  no-  where,  what  with  picking  up  the  article  and  looking  at  my  picture  every  five  minutes.  I  don't  know  what  I  expect-  ed  to  see  revealed  there-the  future,  probably,  the  title  of  my  first  ten  books-but  I  do  remember  thinking  that  this  photograph  of  an  intense  and  serious  young  writer  playing  so  gently  with  a  kitty-cat,  and  said  to  be  living  in  a  five-flight  Village  walkup  with  a  young  ballerina,  might  inspire  any  number  of  thrilling  women  to  want  to  try  to  take  her  place.  &quot;I  would  never  have  allowed  that  to  appear,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;if  I  had  realized  how  it  was  all  going  to  come  out.  They  in-  terviewed  me  for  an  hour  and  then  what  they  used  of  what  I  said  was  non-  sense.&quot;  &quot;Don't  apologize,&quot;  said  Lonoff.  &quot;Don't  indeed,&quot;  said  his  wife,  smil-  ing  at  me.  &quot;What's  wrong  with  having  your  picture  in  the  paper?&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  mean  the  picture-though  that  too.  I  never  knew  they  were  going  to  usethe  one  of  me  with  the  cat.  I  expected  they'd  use  the  one  at  the  type-  writer.  I  should  have  realized  they  couldn't  show  everybody  at  a  typewrit-  er,.  The  girl  who  came  around  to  take  " b"the  pictures&quot;-and  whom  I  had  tried  unsuccessfully  to  throw  onto  the  floor-&quot;said  she'd  just  take  the  picture  of  thecat  for  Betsy  and  me.&quot;  &quot;Don't  apologize,&quot;   Lonoff  re-  peated,  &quot;unless  you  know  for  sure  you're  not  going  to  do  it  again  next  time.  Otherwise  just  do  it  and  forget  it.  Don't  make  a  production  out  of  it.&quot;  Hope  said,  &quot;He  only  means  he  un-  derstands,  Nathan.  He  has  the  highest  respect  for  what  you  are.  We  don't  have  visitors  unless  they're  people  Man-  ny  respects.  He  has  no  tolerance  for  people  without  substance.&quot;  &quot;Enough,&quot;  said  Lonoff.  &quot;I  just  don't  want  Nathan  to  re-  sent  you  for  superiority  feelings  you  don't  have.&quot;  &quot;My  wife  would  have  been  happier  with  a  less  exacting  companion.&quot;  &quot;But  you  ere  less  exacting,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;with  everyone  but  yourself,  Na-  than,  you  don't  have  to  defend  your-  self.  Why  shouldn't  you  enjoy  your  first  bit  of  recognition?  Who  deserves  it  more  than  agifted  young  man  like  yourself?  Think  of  all  the  worthless  people  held  up  for  our  esteem  every  day:  movie  stars,  politicians,  athletes.  Because  you  happen  to  be  a  writer  doesn't  mean  you  have  to  deny  your-  self  the  ordinary  human  pleasure  of  being  praised  and  applauded.&quot;  &quot;Ordinary  human  pleasures  have  nothing  to  do  with  it.  Ordinary  human  pleasuresbe  damned,  The  young  man  wants  to  be  an  artist.&quot;  &quot;Sweetheart,&quot;  she  replied,  &quot;you  must  sound  to  Nathan  so-so  unyield-  ing.  And  you're  really  not  that  way  at  all,.  You're  the  most  forgiving  and  un-  derstanding  and  modest  person  I  have  ever  known.  Too  modest.&quot;  &quot;Let's  forget  how  I  sound  and  have  dessert.&quot;  &quot;But  you  are  thekindest  person.  He  is,  Nathan.  You've  met  Amy,  haven't  you?&quot;  &quot;Miss  Bellette?&quot;  &quot;Do  you  know  all  he's  done  for  her?  She  wrote  him  a  letter  when  she  was  sixteen  years  old,  In  care  of  his  publish-  er.  The  most  charming,  lively  letter-  so  daring,  so  brash.  She  told  him  her  story,  and  instead  of  forgetting  it,  he  wrote  her  back,  He  has  always  written  people  back-a  polite  note  even  to  the  fools.&quot;  &quot;What  was  her  story?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Displaced,&quot;  said  Lonoff.  &quot;Refu-  gee.&quot;  That  seemed  to  him  to  suffice,  though  not  to  the  wagon-train  wife,  who  surprised  me  by  the  way  that  she  pressed  on.  Was  it  the  little  bit  of  wine  that  had  gone  to  her  head?  Or  was  there  not  something  seething  in  her?  &quot;She  said  she  was  a  highly  intelli-  gent,  creative,  and  charming  sixteen-  year-old  who  was  now  living  with  a  not  very  intelligent,  creative,  or  charm-  ing  family  in  Bristol,  [REDACTED].  She  even  included  her  I.Q.,&quot;  Hope  said.  &quot;No,  no,  that  was  the  second  letter.  Anyway,  she  said  she  wanted  a  new  start  in  life  and  she  thought  the  man whose  wonderful  story  she'd  read  in  her  school  anthology-&quot;  &quot;It  wasn't  an  anthology,  but  you  might  as  well  keep  going.&quot;  Hope  tried  her  luck  with  a  self-  effacing  smile,  but  the  wattage  was  awfully  dim.&quot;I  think  I  can  talk  about  this  without  help.  I'm  only  relating  the  facts,  and  calmly  enough,  I  had  thought.  Because  the  story  was  in  a  magazine,  and  not  in  an  anthology,  doesn't  mean  that  I  have  lost  control  of  myself.  Furthermore,  Amy  is  not  the  subject,  not  by  any  means.  The  subject  is  your  extraordinary  kindness  and  charity.  Your  concern  for  anyone  " b"in  need-anyone  except  yourself,  and  your  needs.&quot;  &quot;Only  my  'self,&quot;  as  you  like  to  call  it,  happens  not  to  exist  in  the  every-  day  sense  of  the  word.  Consequently,  you  may  stop  lavishing  praise  upon  it.  And  worrying  about  its  'needs.&quot;  &quot;  &quot;But  your  self  does  exist.,  It  hasa  perfect  right  to  exist-and  in  the  ev-  eryday  sense!&quot;  &quot;Enough,&quot;  he  suggested  again.  With  that,  she  rose  to  begin  to  clear  the  dishes  for  dessert,  and  all  at  once  a  wineglass  struckthe  wall.  Hope  had  thrown  it,  &quot;Chuck  me  out,&quot;  she  cried,  &quot;I  want  you  to  chuck  me  out.  Don't  tell  me  you  can't,  because  you  must!  I  want  you  to!  I'll  finish  the  dishes  then  chuck  me  out,  tonight!  I  beg  of  you-I'd  rather  live  and  die  alone,  I'd  rather  endure  that  than  another  mo-  ment  of  your  bravery!  I  cannot  take  any  more  moral  fibre  in  the  face  of  life's  disappointments!  Not  yours  and  not  mine!  I  cannot  bear  having  a  loyal,  dignified  husband  who  has  no  illusions  about  himself  one  second  more!&quot;  My  heart,  of  course,  was  pounding  away,  though  not  entirely  because  the  sound  of  glass  breaking  and  the  sight  of  a  disappointed  woman,  miserably  weeping,  was  new  to  me.  It  was  about  a  month  old.  On  our  last  morning  together  Betsy  had  broken  every  dish  of  the  pretty  little  Bloomingdale's  set  that  we  owned  in  common,  and  then,  while  I  hesitated  about  leaving  my  apartment  without  making  my  position  clear,  she  started  in  on  the  glassware.  The  hatred  for  me  that  I  had  inspired              '  t  \xc2\xabisp,  tals  by  telling  the  whole  truth  had  me  par-  ticularly  confused.  If  only  I  had  lied,  I  thought-if  only  I  had  said  that  the  friend  who  had  intimated  I  might  not  be  trustworthy  was  a  troublemaking  bitch,  jealous  of  Betsy's  success  and  not  a  little  crazy,  none  of  this  would  be  happening.  But  then,  if  I  had  lied  to  her,  I  would  have  Hed  to  her.  Except  that  what  I  would  have  said  about  the  friend  would  in  essence  have  been  true!  I  didn't  get  it.  Nor  did  Betsy  when  I  tried  to  calm  her  down  and  explain  what  a  swell  fellow  I  actually  was  to  have  been  so  candid  about  it  all.  It  was  here,  in  fact,  that  she  set  about  destroy-  ing  the  slender  drinking  glasses,  a  set  of  six  from  [REDACTED]  that  we  had  bought  to  replace  the  jelly  jars  on  a  joyous  quasi-connubial  outing  some  months  earlier  at  Bonniers  (bought  along  with  the  handsome  Scandinavian  throw  rug  onto  which,  in  due  course,  I  had  tried  to  drag  the  photographer  from  The  Saturday  Review).  Hope  Lonoff  had  now  slumped  back  into  her  chair,  the  better  to  plead  with  her  husband  across  the  table.  Her  face  was  patched  with  blotches  where  she  had  been  digging  at  the  soft,  creased  skin  in  a  fit  of  self-abasement.  The  frantic,  agitated  movement  of  her  fingers  alarmed  me  more  even  than  the  misery  in  her  voice,  and  I  wondered  if  I  should  reach  over  and  pick  up  the  serving  fork  from  the  table  before  she  turned  the  prongs  into  her  bosom  and  gave  Lonoff's  &quot;self&quot;  the  freedom  to  pursue  what  she  thought  it  needed.  But  as  I  was  only  a  guest-as  I  was  &quot;only&quot;  just  about  anything  you  could  think  of-I  left  all  cutlery  where  it  was  and  waited  for  the  worst.  &quot;'Take  her,  Manny.  If  you  want  her,  take  her,&quot;  she  cried,  &quot;and  then  you  won't  be  so  miserable,  and  every-  thing  in  the  world  won't  be  so  bleak.  She's  nota  student  anymore-she's  a  woman!  You  are  entitled  to  her-you  rescued  her  from  oblivion,  you  are  more  than  entitled:  it's  the  only  thing  that  makes  sense!  Tell  her  to  accept  that  job,  tell  her  to  stay!  She  should!  And  I'll  move  away!  Because  I  cannot  live  another  moment  as  your  jailer!  Your  nobility  is  eating  away  the  last  thing  that  is  left!  You  are  a  monument  and  can  take  it  and  take  it-but  I'm  down  to  nothing,  darling,  and  I  can't.  Chuck  me  out!  Please,  now,  before  your  goodness  and  your  wisdom  kill  us  both!&quot;  ENOFF  and  I  sat  talking  together  in  the  living  room  after  dinner,  each  sipping  with  admirable  temperance  at  the  tablespoonful  of  cognac  he  had  divided  between  two  large  snifters.  I  had  so  far  experienced  brandy  only  as  a  stopgap  household  remedy  for  tooth-  ache:  a  piece  of  absorbent  cotton,  soaked  in  the  stuff,  would  be  pressed  up  against  my  throbbing  gum  until  my  par-  ents  could  get  me  to  a  dentist.  I  accept-  ed  Lonoff's  offer,  however,  as  though  it  accorded  with  my  oldest  postprandial  custom.  The  comedy  thickened  when  my  host,  another  big  drinker,  went  to  look  forthe  right  glasses.  After  a  sys-  tematic  search  he  finally  found  them  at  the  rear  of  the  bottom  cabinet  in  the  " b"foyer  breakfront.  &quot;A  gift,&quot;  he  ex-  plained,  &quot;I  thought  they  were  still  in  the  [REDACTED];  and  took  two  into  the  kitchen  to  wash  away  dust  that  seemed  to  have  been  accumulating  since  the  time  of  Napoleon,  whose  name  was  on  the  sealed  brandy  bottle.  While  he  was  at  it,  he  decided  to  wash  the  four  other  glasses  in  the  set  and  put  them  back  in  hiding  in  the  breakfront  before  rejoin-  ing  me  to  begin  our  merrymaking  at  the  hearth.  Not  much  later-in  all,  maybe  twenty  minutes  after  he  had  refused  to  respond  in  any  way  to  her  plea  to  be  replaced  by  Amy  Bellette-Hope  could  be  heard  in  the  kitchen,  washing  the  dishes  that  Lonoff  and  I  had  silently  cleared  from  the  table  following  her  departure.  She  seemed  to  have  gotten  down  from  their  bedroom  by  a  back  stairway-probably  so  as  not  to  disturb  our  conversation.  While  helping  him  to  clear  up,  I  had  not  known  what  to  do  about  her  bro-  ken  wineglass  or  about  the  saucer  she  inadvertently  had  knocked  to  the  floor  when  she  rushed  from  the  table.  My  duty  as  ing\xc3\xa9nu  was  clearly  to  spare  the  stout  man  in  the  business  suit  from  bending  over,  especially  as  he  was  E.  I.  Lonoff;  on  the  other  hand,  I  was  still  trying  to  get  through  by  pretending  that  nothing  shocking  had  happened  in  my  presence.  To  keep  the  tantrum  in  perspective,  he  might  even  prefer  that  the  broken  bits  be  left  where  they  were  for  Hope  to  clean  up  later,  provided  shedid  not  first  commit  suicide  in  their  room.  Even  as  my  sense  of  moral  niceties  and  my  youthful  cowardice  battled  it  out  with  my  naivet\xc3\xa9,  Lonoff,  groaning  slightly  from  the  effort,  brushed  the  glass  into  a  dustpan  and  retrieved  the  saucer  from  beneath  the  dining  table.  It  had  broken  neatly  in  two,  and  after  inspecting  the  edges,  he  observed,  &quot;She  can  glue  it.&quot;  In  the  kitchen  he  left  the  dish  for  her  to  repair  on  a  long  wooden  counter  where  pink  and  white  geraniums  were  growing  in  clay  pots  beneath  the  win-  dows.  The  kitchen  was  a  bright,  pretty  room,  a  little  cheerier  and  livelier-look-  ing  than  the  rest  of  the  house.  Besides  the  geraniums,  flowering  abundantly  here  even  in  winter,  tall  reeds  and  dried  flowers  were  stuck  all  about  in  pitchers  and  vases  and  little  odd-shaped  bottles.  The  win-  dowed  wall-cupboards  were  bright  and  homey  and  reassur-  ing:  food  staples  labelled  with  unimpeachable  brand  names  -enough  Bumble  Bee  tuna  for  an  Eskimo  family  to  sur-  vive  in  their  igloo  till  spring-  and  jars  of  tomatoes,  beans,  pears,  crabapples,  and  the  like,  which  seemed  to  have  been  put  up  by  Hope  herself.  Pots  and  pans  with  shining  copper  bottoms  hung  in  rows  from  a  pegboard  beside  the  stove,  and  along  the  wall  above  the  breakfast  table  were  half  a  dozen  pictures  in  plain  wooden  frames,  which  turned  out  to  be  short  nature  poems  signed  &quot;H.L.,&quot;  copied  in  delicate  calligra-  phy  and  decorated  with  wa-  tercolor  designs.  It  did  indeed  look  to  be  the  head-  quarters  ofa  woman  who,  in  her  own  unostentatious  way,  could  glue  anything  and  do  anything,  except  fig-  ure  out  how  to  make  her  husband  happy.  We  talked  about  literature  and  I  was  in  heaven-also  in  a  sweat  from  the  spot-  light  he  was  giving  me  to  bask  in.  Every  book  new  to  me  I  was  sure  he  must  have  anno-  tated  with  his  reading  pen  long  ago,  yet  his  interest  was  pointedly  in  hear-  ing  my  thoughts,  not  his  own.  The  effect  of  his  concentrated  attention  was  to  make  me  heap  insight  onto  precocious  insight,  and  then  to  hang  upon  his  every  sigh  and  grimace,  in-  vesting  what  was  only  a  little  bout  of  after-dinner  dyspepsia  with  the  direst  implications  about  my  taste  and  my  intelligence.  Though  I  worried  that  I  was  trying  too  hard  to  sound  like  the  kind  of  deep  thinker  for  whom  he  had  no  love,  I  still  couldn't  stop  my-  self,  under  the  spell  now  not  just  of  the  man  and  his  accomplishment  but  of  the  warm  wood  fire,  of  the  brandy  snifter  balanced  in  my  hand  (if  not  yet  the  brandy),  and  of  the  snow  fall-  ing  heavily  beyond  the  cushioned  win-  dow-seats,  as  dependably  beautiful  and  mystifying  as  ever.  Then  there  were  the  great  novelists,  whose  spellbinding  names  I  chanted  as  I  laid  my  cross-cul-  tural  comparisons  and  brand-new  eclectic  enthusiasms  at  his  feet-Zuck-  erman,  with  Lonoff,  discussing  Kafka:  I  couldn't  quite  get  it,  let  alone  get  " b"over  it.  And  then  there  was  his  din-  ner-table  toast.  It  still  gave  me  a  tem-  perature  ofa  hundred  and  five  each  time  I  remembered  it.  To  myself  I  swore  that  I  would  struggle  for  the  rest  of  my  life  to  deserve  it.  And  wasn't  that  why  he'd  proposed  it,  this  pitiless  new  master  of  mine?  &quot;I've  just  finished  reading  Isaac  Babel,&quot;  I  told  him.  He  considered  this,  impassively.  &quot;I  was  thinking,  for  sport  more  or  less,  that  he  is  the  missing  link;  those  stories  are  what  connect  you,  if  you  don't  mind  my  mentioningyour  work-&quot;  He  crossed  his  hands  on  his  belly  and  rested  them  there-movement  enough  to  make  me  say,  &quot;I'm  sorry.&quot;  &quot;Go  ahead.  Connected  to  Babel.  How?&quot;  &quot;Well,  'connected'  of  course  isn't  the  right  word.  Neither  is  &quot;influence.  It's  family  resemblance  that  I'm  talk-  ing  about.  It's  as  though,  as  I  see  it,  you  are  Babel's  556e6974656420537461746573n  cousin-and  Felix  Abravanel  is  the  other.  You  through  'The  Sin  of  Jesus'  and  some-  thing  in  'Red  Cavalry,&quot;  through  the  ironical  dreaming  and  the  blunt  report-  ing,  and,  of  course,  through  the  writ-  ing  itself.  Do  you  see  what  I  mean?  There's  a  sentence  in  one  of  his  war  stories:  'Voroshilov  combed  his  horse's  mane  with  his  Mauser.  Well,  that's  just  the  kind  of  thing  that  you  do,a  stunning  little  picture  in  every  line.  Babel  said  that  if  he  ever  wrote  his  autobiography,  he'd  call  it  'The  Story  of  an  Adjective.'  Well,  if  it  was  pos-  sible  to  imagine  you  writing  your  auto-  biography-if  such  a  thing  were  even  imaginable-you  might  come  up  with  that  title  too.  No?&quot;  &quot;And  Abravanel?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  with  Abravanel  it's  Benya  Krik  and  the  Odessa  mob:  the  gloat-  ing,  the  gangsters,  all  those  gigantic  types.  It  isn't  that  he  throws  in  his  sympathy  with  the  brutes-it  isn't  that  in  Babel,  either.  It's  their  awe  of  them.  Even  when  they're  appalled,  they're  somewhat  in  awe.  Deep  reflective  Jews  a  little  lovesick  at  the  sound  of  all  that  un-  Talmudic  bone-crunching.  Sensitive  Jewish  sages,  as  Babel  says,  dying  to  climb  trees.&quot;  &quot;'In  my  childhood  I  led  the  life  of  a  sage,  when  I  grew  up  I  started  climbing  trees.&quot;  &quot;  'Yes,  that's  the  line,&quot;  said  I,  ex-  pecting  no  less  but  still  a  little  im-  pressed.  On  I  went.  &quot;Look  at  Abra-  vanel's  'Properly  Scalded.'  Movie  mo-  guls,  union  moguls,  racketeer  moguls,  women  who  are  moguls  just  with  their  breasts-even  the  down-and-out  bums  who  used  to  be  moguls,  talking  like   moguls  of  the  down-and-out.  It's  Ba-  bel's  fascination  with  big-time  Jews,  with  conscienceless  Cossacks,  with  ev-  erybody  who  has  it  his  own  way.  The  Will  as  the  Big  Idea.  Except  Babel  doesn't  come  off  so  lovable  and  enor-  mous  himself.  That's  not  how  he  sees  things.  He  is  sort  of  Abravanel  with  the  self-absorption  drained  away.  And  if  you  drain  away  enough,  well,  in  the  end  you  arrive  at  Lonoff.&quot;  &quot;And  what  about  you?&quot;  (\xe2\x80\x98Me?))  &quot;Yes.  You  haven't  finished.  Aren't  you  a  New  World  cousin  in  the  Babel  clan  too?  What  is  Zuckerman  in  all  of  this?&quot;  &quot;Why-nothing.  I've  only  published  the  four  stories  that  I  sent  you.  My  relationship  is  nonexistent.  I  think  I'm  still  at  thepoint  where  my  relationship  to  my  own  work  is  practically  non-  existent.&quot;  So  I  said,  and  quickly  reached  for  my  glass  so  as  to  duck  my  disingenuous  face  and  take  a  bitter  drop  of  brandy  on  my  tongue.  But  Lonoff  had  read  my  designing  mind,  all  right;  for  when  I  came  upon  Babel's  description  of  the  Jewish  writer  as  a  man  with  autumn  in  his  heart  and  spectacles  on  his  nose,  I  had  been  inspired  to  add,  &quot;and  blood  in  his  penis,&quot;  and  had  then  recorded  the  words  like  a  challenge-a  flaming  Dedalian  formula  to  ignite  my  soul's  smithy.         &quot;What  else?&quot;  Lonoff  asked.  &quot;Come  on,  don't  get  bashful.  This  is  enjoy-  able.  Talk,  please.&quot;  &quot;About-?&quot;  &quot;All  these  books  you  read.&quot;  Your  books  included  or  excluded?&quot;  I  asked  him.  &quot;Suit  yourself.&quot;  I  said,  &quot;I  think  of  you  as  the  Jew  who  got  away.&quot;  &quot;And  does  that  help?&quot;  &quot;There's  some  truth  in  it,  isn't  there?  You  got  away  from  [REDACTED]  and  the  pogroms.  You  got  away  from  the  purges-and  Babel  didn't.  You  got  away  from  [REDACTED]  and  the  homeland.  You  got  away  from  [REDACTED]  and  the  relatives.  You  got  away  from  New  York-&quot;  &quot;And  all  of  this  is  recorded  where?  Hedda  Hopper?&quot;  &quot;Some  there.  The  rest  I  pieced  to-  gether  myself.&quot;  &quot;To  what  end?&quot;  &quot;When  you  admire  a  writer,  you  become  curious.  You  look  for  his  se-  cret.  The  clues  to  his  puzzle.&quot;  &quot;But  New  York-I  was  there  for  three  months  over  twenty  years  ago.  Who  told  you  I  got  away  from  New  [REDACTED];  &quot;Some  of  the  Jews  down  there  you  got  away  from.&quot;  &quot;I  was  there  for  three  months  and  I  think  I  got  a  word  in  only  once.  What  word  I  don't  remember,  but " b"suddenly  I  belonged  to  a  faction.&quot;  &quot;'That's  why  you  left?&quot;  &quot;Also  there  was  the  girl  I'd  fallen  in  love  with  and  married.  She  wasn't  happy.&quot;  &quot;Why  not?&quot;  &quot;Same  as  me.  Those  were  terrifying  intellectual  personalities  even  back  then.  Real  ideological  Benya  Kriks,  even  in  their  diapers.  I  didn't  have  enough  strong  opinions  to  last  me  down  there  through  a  year.  My  Hope  had  even  fewer.&quot;  &quot;So  you  came  back  here,  you  got  away  for  good.&quot;  &quot;From  Jews?  Not  altogether.  The  game  warden  tells  me  there  are  some  more  up  in  these  woods  besides  me.  But  you're  more  or  less  right.  It's  the  deer  in  their  fields  that  drive  the  farmers  crazy,  not  the  few  of  us  they  see  around  here  in  caftans.  But  where's  the  secret,  Nathan?  What's  the  puzzle?&quot;  &quot;Away  from  all  the  Jews,  and  a  story  by  you  without  a  Jew  in  it  is  un-  thinkable.  The  deer,  the  farmers,  the  ame  warden-&quot;  &quot;And  don't  forget  Hope.  And  my  fair-haired  children.&quot;  &quot;And  still  all  you  write  about  are  Jews.&quot;  &quot;Proving  what?&quot;  &quot;'That,&quot;  I  said,  cautiously,  &quot;is  what  I'd  like  to  ask  you.&quot;  He  thought  about  it  for  a  moment.  &quot;It  proves  why  the  young  rabbi  in  Pittsfield  can't  live  with  the  ideathat  I  won't  be  'active.&quot;  &quot;  I  waited  for  more,  but  in  vain.  &quot;Do  you  know  Abravanel?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Nathan,  surely  by  now  you  get  the  picture.&quot;  &quot;What  picture?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know  anybody.  I  turn  sentences  around,  and  that's  it.  Why  would  Abravanel  want  to  know  me?     I  put  him  to  sleep.  He  spoke  at  Am-  herst  last  spring.  An  invitation  ar-  rived,  so  we  drove  over  to  hear  him.  But  that's  the  onlytime  we've  ever  met.  Before  the  lecture  he  came  down  the  aisle  to  where  I  was  sitting  and  introduced  himself,  He  was  very  flat-  tering.  My  respectful  younger  col-  league.  Afterward  we  had  a  drink  with  him  and  his  actress.  A  very  polished  fellow.  The  satirist  you  don't  really  see  till  you  catch  the  commedia  dell'arte  profile.  There's  where  the  derision  lives.  Head-on  he's  something  of  a  heartthrob.  [REDACTED]  black  eyes,  and  so  on.  And  the  young  Israeli  wife  is  like  lava.  The  Gentile  dream  of  the  melon-breasted  Jewess.  And  the  black  head  of  coarse,  curly  hair-the  long  female  version  of  his.  You  could  polish  a  pot  with  it.  They  tell  me  that  when  she  played  in  the  big  movie  of  the  Bible  she  stole  the  show  from  the  Cre-  ation.  So  there  were  those  two,  and  there  was  I  with  Hope.  And  with  this,&quot;  he  said,  once  more  lightly  laying  his  hands  on  his  belly.  &quot;I  understand  he  does  a  humorous  imitation  of  me  for  his  friends.  No  harm  intended.  One  of  my  former  students  ran  into  him  in  [REDACTED].  He'd  just  addressed  a  full  house  at  the  Sorbonne.  I'm  told  that  upon  hearing  my  name,  he  referred  to  me  as  'the  complete  man-as  unimpressive  as  he  is  unimpressed.&quot;  &quot;  &quot;You  don't  like  him  much.&quot;  &quot;I'm  not  in  the  business.  Liking  people'  is  often  just  another  racket.  But  you're  right  to  think  well  of  his  books.  Not  up  my  alley  maybe,  all  that  vanity  face  to  face,  but  when  he  writes  he's  not  just  a  little  Houyhnhnm,  tapping  out  his  superiority  with  his  hooves.  More  like  a  Dr.  Johnson  eat-  ing  opium-the  disease  of  his  life  makes  Abravanel  fly.  I  admire  the  man,  actually.  I  admire  what  he  puts  his           wank  MLL  Vii  ANM!  +1)  wo  &amp;+  omen  a  60  v  nervous  system  through.  I  admire  his  passion  for  the  front-row  seat.  Beauti-  ful  wives,  beautiful  mistresses,  alimony  the  size  of  the  national  debt,  polar  ex-  peditions,  war-front  reportage,  famous  friends,  famous  enemies,  breakdowns,  public  lectures,  five-hundred-page  novels  every  third  year,  and  still,  as  you  said  before,  time  and  energy  left  over  for  all  that  self-absorption.  The  gigantic  types  in  the  books  have  to  be  that  big  to  give  him  something  to  think  about  to  rival  himself.  Like  him?  No.  But  impressed,  oh,  yes.  Absolutely.  It's  no  picnic  up  there  in  the  egosphere.  I  don't  know  when  the  man  sleeps,  or  if  he  has  ever  slept,  aside  from  those  few  minutes  when  he  had  that  drink  with  me.)7  Outside  it  was  like  a  silent-film  studio  where  they  made  snowstorms  by  hurling  mattress  wadding  into  a  wind  machine.  Large,  ragged  snowclots  raced  across  the  window,  and  when  I  heard  their  icy  edges  nicking  at  the  glass-and  the  sounds  of  someone  put-  tering  in  the  kitchen-I  remembered  Lonoff's  wife  begging  to  be  discarded,  and  wondered  if  the  plea  would  have  been  quite  so  thoroughgoing  on  a  sunny  spring  day.  &quot;I  think  I'd  better  get  the  taxi,&quot;  I  said,  pointing  to  my  watch,  &quot;so  as  to  catch  the  last  bus  back.&quot;  Of  course  I  wanted  never  to  leave.  True,  while  Hope  was  falling  apart  at  the  dinner  table,  I  momentarily  had  found  myself  wishing  for  my  cabin  at  Quahsay;  now,  however,  the  way  the  crisis  seemed  magically  to  have  re-  solved  itself  served  only  to  intensify  my  awe  of  Lonoff,  particularly  for  what  he  unblushingly  had  called  my  own  kind  of  bravery.  If  only  I  had  thought  to  take  his  approach  when  Betsy  had  gone  wild  ;  if  only  I  had  kept  my  mouth  shut  until  she  finished  berat-  " b"ing  me,  then  swept  up  the  broken  crockery  and  settled  into  my  chair  to  read  another  book!  Now,  why  didn't  I?  Because  I  was  twenty-three  and  he  was  fifty-six?  Or  because  I  was  guilty  and  he  was  innocent?  Yes,  his  au-  thority,  and  the  rapid  restoration  of  household  sanity  and  order,  might  well  owe  something  to  that.  &quot;Take  her!  It's  the  only  thing  that  makes  sense!&quot;  cried  Hope,  and  Lonoff's  easy  victory  seemed  to  reside  in  never  even  having  wanted  to.  I  also  hated  calling  a  taxi  because  of  Amy  Bellette.  I  was  hoping,  a  lit-  tle  crazily,  that  when  she  came  back  from  dinner  with  the  college  librari-  an,  she  would  offer  to  drive  me  through  the  storm  to  my  bus.  Earlier,  while  Lonoff  was  measuring  out  the  brandy-concentrating  like  a  bartend-  er  who'd  trained  at  Los  Alamos  with  fissionable  fifths-I  had  asked  where  she  went.  I  hadn't  the  nerve  to  in-  quire  about  her  status  as  a  displaced  person.  But  at  the  table,  when  he  said  that  she  had  come  to  Athene  as  a  refugee,  I  was  reminded  of  &quot;the  chil-  dren  starving  in  Europe&quot;  whom  we  had  heard  so  much  about  when  we  were  children  eating  in  New  Jersey.  If  Amy  had  been  one  of  them,  per-  haps  that  explained  the  something  in  her  that  seemed  to  me  thwarted  and  underdeveloped,  despite  the  dazzling  maturity  and  severe  good  looks.  I  won-  dered  if  the  dark  refugee  girl  with  the  curious  name  Bellette  could  be  Jewish,  and  in  Europe  had  suffered  from  worse  than  starvation.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  said  Lonoff,  &quot;you'd  better  call  the  taxi.&quot;  Reluctantly  I  stood  to  go.  &quot;Or,  if  you  like,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;you  can  stay  over  and  sleep  in  the  study.&quot;  &quot;No,  I  think  I  really  have  to  be  off,&quot;  I  said,  and  cursed  the  upbringing  that    had  taught  me  never  to  be  greedy  about  second  helpings.  How  much  bet-  ter  if  I  had  been  raised  in  the  gutter!  Only  how  would  I  have  gotten  from  the  gutter  to  here?  &quot;Suit  yourself,&quot;  Lonoff  told  me.  &quot;I  wouldn't  want  to  inconvenience  your  wife.&quot;  &quot;I  think  it  will  disturb  her  more  if  you  leave  than  if  you  stay.  She  might  hold  herself  responsible,  I'm  certain  she  would.&quot;  I  pretended  I  had  taken  my  dinner  on  the  moon.  &quot;But  why?&quot;  &quot;Sit  down.  Stay  for  Nathan.&quot;  &quot;I'd  better  not.  I  shouldn't.&quot;  &quot;You  know  who  Jimmy  Durante  is?&quot;&quot;  &quot;Of  course.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  know  the  old  Durante  number,  'Did  you  ever  have  the  feeling  that  you  wanted  to  go,  still  have  the  feeling  that  you  wanted  tostay?&quot;  &quot;  (\xe2\x80\x98YeS.J)  \xe2\x80\x9cSit,\xe2\x80\x9d  I  sat-suiting  myself,  as  the  man  said.  &quot;Besides,&quot;  he  told  me,  &quot;if  you  go  off  now,  you'll  leave  most  of  your  cognac.&quot;  &quot;If  I  go  off,  so  will  you.&quot;  &quot;Well,  the  Jew  who  got  away  didn't  get  away  altogether.&quot;  He  smiled  at  me.  &quot;You  don't  have  to  finish  it,  just  because  you're  staying.  That's  not  part  of  the  deal.&quot;  &quot;No,  no,  I  want  to,&quot;  I  said,  and  took  my  biggest  sip  of  the  night.  Salut-  ing  me  with  his  glass,  he  followed  suit.  &quot;Hope  will  bepleased,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;She  misses  people.  She  misses  the  chil-  dren  and  their  friends,  She  went  to  art  school  in  [REDACTED]  before  I  brought  her  back  here,  sixteen  versts  to  the  nearest  railway  station.  [REDACTED]  terrified  her,  but  [REDACTED]'s  her  [REDACTED],  she'd  breakfast,  move  there  tomorrow.  She  thinks  I  would  enjoy  it  in  [REDACTED].  But  all  I  need  are  those  dinner  parties.  I'd  rather  talk  to  the  horse.&quot;  &quot;You  have  a  horse?&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cNO.\xe2\x80\x9d  I  loved  him!  Yes,  nothing  less  than  love  for  this  man  with  no  illusions:  love  for  the  bluntness,  the  scrupulosity,  the  severity,  the  estrangement;  love  for  the  relentless  winnowing  out  of  the  babyish,  preening,  insatiable  self;  love  for  the  artistic  mulishness  and  the  sus-  picion  of  nearly  everything  else;  and  love  for  all  the  buried  charm,  of  which  he'd  just  given  me  a  glimpse.  Yes,  Lonoff  had  only  to  say  that  he  did  not  even  have  the  horse  to  talk  to  and  somehow  that  did  it,  released  in  me  a  son's  girlish  love  for  the  man  of  splen-  did  virtue  and  high  achievement  who  understands  life,  and  who  understands  the  son,  and  who  approves.  SHOULD  mention  here  that  some  three  years  earlier,  after  several  hours  in  the  presence  of  Felix  Abra-  vanel,  I  had  been  no  less  overcome.  But  if  I  did  not  fall  at  his  feet  straight-  away,  it  was  because  even  a  college  senior  as  writer-worshipping  as  myself  could  see  that  with  Abravanel  such  boundless  adoration-at  least  if  offered  up  by  a  youthful  male  admirer-was  doomed  to  go  unrequited.  The  ardor  of  those  books,  composed  in  the  sunny  stillness  of  his  [REDACTED]  canyon  and  seething  with  unbuttoned  and  aggressive  innocence,  seemed  to  have  little  to  do  with  the  author  himself  when  he  came  coolly  out  into  the  fallen  world  he'd  been  so  ardent  about  down  in  the  canyon.  In  fact,  the  writer  who  found  irresistible  all  vital  and  dubious  types,  not  excluding  the  swindlers  of  both  sexes  who  trampled  upon  the  large  hearts  of  his  optimistic,  undone  heroes;  " b"the  writer  who  could  locate  the  hyp-  notic  core  in  the  most  devious  Ameri-  can  self-seeker  and  lead  him  to  disclose  in  spirited  locutions  all  his  own  the  depths  of  his  conniving  soul;  the  writer  whose  absorption  with  &quot;the  grand  hu-  man  discord&quot;  made  his  every  para-  graph  a  little  novel  in  itself,  every  page  packed  as  tight  as  Dickens  or  Dostoev-  ski  with  the  latest  news  of  manias,  temptations,  passions,  and  dreams,  with  mankind  aflame  with  feeling-well,  in  the  flesh  he  gave  the  impression  of  being  out  to  lunch.  Which  isn't  to  suggest  that  Felix  Abravanel  lacked  charm.  On  the  con-  trary,  the  charm  was  like  a  moat  so  oceanic  that  you  couldnot  even  see  the  great  turreted  and  buttressed  thing  it  had  been  dug  to  protect.  You  couldn't  even  find  the  drawbridge.  He  was  like  [REDACTED]  itself-to  get  there  you  had  to  take  a  plane.  There  were  moments  during  his  public  lecture--  this  was  at  [REDACTED],  my  last  year  there-when  Abravanel  had  to  pause  at  the  lectern,  seemingly  to  suppress  saying  something  off  thecuff  that  would  have  been  just  too  charming  for  his  audience  to  bear.  And  he  was  right.  We  might  have  charged  the  stage  to  eat  him  up  alive  if  he  had  been  any  more  sly  and  enchanting  and  wise.  Poor  marvellous  Abravanel  (I  mean  this  without  satire)-even  what  was  intended  to  guard  the  great  rose  win-  dow  of  his  inner  brilliance  was  itself  so  damn  beautiful  that  the  ungifted  multitudes  and  art  lovers  of  the  world  couldnot  but  find  him  all  the  more  alluring.  On  the  other  hand,  maybe  he  wanted  it  that  way.  There  is  ob-  viously  no  simple  way  to  be  great,  or  so  I  was  beginning  to  find  out.  After  the  lecture  I  had  been  in-  vited  to  come  along  to  a  faculty-club  reception  by  the  professor  whose  prot\xc3\xa9g\xc3\xa9  I  was.  When  we  were  able  at  last  to  break  through  the  rings  of  ad-  mirers,  I  was  introduced  as  the  student  whose  story  would  be  discussed  the  next  morning  in  the  class  Abravanel  had  consented  to  visit.  From  the  dash  of  imperiousness  in  the  photographed  face,  I  had  never  envisioned  him  quite  so  guarded-looking,  or  with  a  head  a  good  size  and  a  half  too  small  for  the  six-foot  plank  that  supported  it.  He  reminded  me,  amid  all  those  who  would  flatter  and  adore  him,  of  a  radio  tower  with  its  tiny  red  light  burning  high  up  to  warn  off  low-flying  air-  craft.  He  wore  a  five-hundred-dol-  lar  shantung  suit,  a  burgundy  silk  tie,  and  gleaming  narrow  black  tasselled  loafers,  but  everything  that  counted,  all  that  made  for  the  charm  and  the  laughs  and  the  books  and  the  break-  downs,  was  stored  compactly  right  up  there  at  the  top-at  the  edge  of  a  precipice.  It  was  a  head  that  the  Japa-  nese  technicians,  with  their  ingenuity  for  miniaturizing,  might  have  designed  and  then  given  over  to  the  Jews  to  adorn  with  the  rug  dealer's  thinning  dark  hair,  the  guarded,  appraising  black  eyes,  and  a  tropical  bird's  curving  bill.  A  fully  Semiticized  little  transistor  on  top,  terrific  clothes  down  below-and  still  the  over-all  impression  was  of  somebody's  stand-in.  I  thought,  In  the  novels  nothing  ever  seems  to  get  by  him,  so  how  come  when  he's  here,  he's  not?  Perhaps  so  much  assails  him  that  he  has  to  close  down  ninety  per  cent  of  himself  to  phenomena  in  order  not  to  explode.  Though  then  again,  I  thought,  maybe  he's  just  out  to  lunch.  Abravanel  shook  my  hand  obliging-  ly  and  was  about  to  turn  away  to  shake  another  obligingly  when  the  professor  repeated  my  name.  &quot;Of  course,&quot;  said  Abravanel,  &quot;N.  Zuckerman.&quot;  He  had  read  a  mimeographed  copy  of  my  story  on  the  plane  from  the  Coast;  so  had  Andrea  read  it.  &quot;Sweetheart,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;this  is  Zuckerman.&quot;  Well,  where  to  begin?  Andrea  had  maybe  only  five  years  on  me,  but  five  years  put  to  good  use.  After  graduat-  ing  from  Sarah  Lawrence,  she  had  evidently  continued  her  education  at  Elizabeth  Arden  and  Henri  Bendel.  As  we  all  knew-her  fame  having  pre-  ceded  her-Andrea's  father  had  been  a  dollar-a-year  man  in  the  first  Roose-  velt  Administration,  and  mother  was  Carla  Peterson  Rumbough,  the  loqua-  cious  liberal  congresswoman  from  [REDACTED].  While  still  a  college  student,  she  had  written  the  first  of  her  por-  traits  of  &quot;Men  in  Power&quot;  for  The  Saturday  Evening  Post,  the  series  even-  tually  collected  in  her  best-selling  book.  Undoubtedly  (as  the  envious  were  quick  enough  to  pointout),  family  con-  tacts  had  got  her  going,  but  clear-  ly  what  encouraged  those  busy  and  powerful  men  to  keep  on  talking  was  the  proximity  of  Andrea  herself,  for  Andrea  was  a  most  juicy  girl.  [REDACTED],  you  felt  that  if  you  pressed  her,  you  could  drinka  glassful  of  refreshing,  healthy  Andrea  for  breakfast.  At  the  time,  she  was  in  residence  with  Abravanel  at  his  Pacific  Palisades  retreat,  a  few  miles  from  the  home  of  his  friend  andmentor  Thomas  Mann.  (&quot;The  grand  human  discord&quot;  was  how  Mann  had  perceived  Abravanel's  subject  in  the  elevating  preface  with  which  he  had  consecrated  the  German  edition  of  &quot;Properly  Scalded.&quot;)  After  Abravanel's  latest  divorce  (and  ru-  mored  emotional  collapse)  Andrea  had  come  to  interview  him  for  the  Post  se-  ries,  and  as  transcontinental  literary  legend  had  it,  never  left.  Legend  also  had  it  that  Abravanel  was  not  only  the  first  man  of  letters  to  be  named  a  man  of  power  in  [REDACTED]  but  the  first  man  of  power  to  whose  advances  Andrea  had  yielded.  I  myself  wondered  if  maybe  Andrea  wasn't  the  first  journal-  ist  to  whose  advances  Abravanel  had  yielded.  He  looked  more  like  the  one  who  would  have  had  to  be  seduced.  &quot;How  terrific  finally  to  meet  you,&quot;  Andrea  said,  briskly  shaking  my  hand.  The  briskness  of  the  handshake  was  in  disarming  contrast  with  the  soft,  volup-  tuous  appearance.  The  face  was  heart-  shaped  and  gentle,  but  the  handshake  said,  &quot;Have  no  doubts,  I  am  the  girl  who  has  everything.&quot;  Not  that  I  was  about  to  argue.  I  was  already  con-  vinceda  month  before  laying  eyes  on  her,  whenwe  had  exchanged  letters  about  hotel  accommodations.  As  stu-  dent  representative  of  the  University  Lecture  Committee,  I  had,  per  her  instructions,  reserved  a  room  in  their  two  names  at  the  Windermere,  the  closest  the  neighborhood  had  to  a  grand  hotel.  &quot;Mr.  Abravanel  and  Miss  Rum-  bough?&quot;  the  desk  clerk  had  asked.  &quot;Are  they  husband  and  wife,sir?&quot;  This  question  was  put  to  me,  mind  you,  in  March  of  1953,  and  so  when  I  an-  swered  with  the  lie  that  I  had  devised  to  shelter  a  hero  from  scandal-&quot;Mrs.  Abravanel  is  the  well-known  journal-  ist;  that,  of  course,  is  her  professional  name&quot;&quot;-I  was  sure  that  the  end  result  of  Miss  A.  Rumbough's  bohemian  dar-  ing  would  be  my  expulsion  from  col-  lege  without  a  degree.  &quot;I  loved  your  story,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It's  so  funny.&quot;  Grimly  I  acknowledged  the  com-  pliment  tendered  my  witby  the  bosomy  girl  with  the  heart-shaped  face  " b"and  the  milkmaid  complexion  and  the  soldierly,  self-assured  grip.  In  the  meantime,  having  passed  me  on  to  Andrea  to  dispose  of,  Abravanel  found  himself  being  exhibited  by  another  of  our  professors  to  a  huddle  of  graduate  students  waiting  shyly  beside  their  teacher  to  ask  the  writer  serious  ques-  tions.  &quot;Oh,  well,&quot;  I  heard  him  say,  with  a  light  annihilating  laugh,  &quot;I  don't  have  the  time  these  days  to  think  about  'influences'-Andrea  keeps  me  pretty  much  on  the  run.&quot;  &quot;Felix,&quot;  she  was  telling  me,  &quot;is  nuts  about  the  story  too.  You  should  have  seen  him  on  theplane.  He  just  kept  throwing  back  his  head  and  laughing.  Where  are  you  going  to  publish  it?  Maybe  Felix  ought  to  talk  to-&quot;  She  mentioned  a  name.  It  was  Knebel,  but  for  one  whose  stories  had  appeared  previously  only  in  the  college  literary  quarterly,  the  effect  would  have  been  no  more  stunning  if  she  had  said,  &quot;After  the  reception  I  have  to  get  back  to  the  hotel  to  interview  Marshal  Tito  in  the  bar-but  while  I  do,  Felix  can  rise  unto  Heaven  from  the  lobby  and  dis-  cuss  your  funny  little  mimeographed  story  with  the  author  of  'The  Brothers  Karamazov.&quot;  We  all  met  in  [REDACTED]  when  Felix  and  I  did  the  prison  tour.&quot;  Somewhere  behind  me  I  heard  Abrava-  nel  applying  himself  to  another  serious  question  from  the  graduate  division.  &quot;Alienation?  Oh,&quot;  he  said,  with  that  light  laugh,  &quot;let  the  other  guy  be  alienated.&quot;  Simultaneously  Andrea  in-  formed  me,  &quot;He's  seeing  Sy  tomorrow  night  in  New  York&quot;  (Sy  being  Knebel,  the  editor  for  twenty  years  of  the  New  York  intellectual  quarterly  that  I  had  been  devouring  for  the  past  two  ).  The  next  day  Abravanel  visited  our  advanced-writ-  ing  class,  accompanied-to  the  surprise  of  those  ready  to  live  only  for  art-by  the  bold  Andrea.  Her  lumi-  nous,  shameless  presence  in  the  very  front  row  (and  her  white  jersey  dress;  and  her  golden  hair  out  of  some  rustic  paradise)  led  me  to  recall  October  afternoons  half  a  lifetime  ago,  when  I  sat  like  a  seething  pris-  oner,  practicing  my  pen-  manship  at  my  sloping  school  desk  while  the  World  Series  was  broad-  cast  live  to  dinky  radios  in  every  gas  station  in  [REDACTED].  It  was  then  that  I  learned  what  tore  at  the  hearts  of  the  delin-  quents  and  the  dummies  who  loathed  the  classroom  and  the  teacher  and  wished  the  whole  place  would  burn  down.  Hands  plunged  into  his  pockets,  and  angled  casually  against  the  professor's  desk,  Abravanel  spoke  of  my  story  with  oblique  admiration,  defending  it,  large-  ly  with  his  laugh,  from  criticism  brought  by  the  orthodox  Forsterites  that  my  narrator  was  &quot;two-dimension-  al&quot;  instead  of  being  &quot;round&quot;  like  the  characters  they'd  read  about  in  &quot;As-  pects  of  the  Novel.&quot;  But  that  day  to  all  carping  I  was  immune.  Andrea,  I  thought,  whenever  one  of  those  fools  said  &quot;round.&quot;  Afterward  I  was  invited  by  Abra-  vanel  for  a  cup  of  coffee  at  a  local  luncheonette,  along  with  Andrea,  my  professor,  and  a  member  of  the  so-  ciology  department,  an  old  friend  from  Abravanel's  youth,  who  had  been  wait-  ing  outside  the  classroom  door  to  give  Abravanel  a  nostalgic  hug  (which  the  author  managed  graciously  to  accept  even  while  backing  away).  Abravanel  had  extended  the  invitation  personally  (as  I  was  to  write  my  parents)  and  with  what  sounded  for  the  first  time  like  real  sympathy:  &quot;They're  a  rough  bunch,  Zuckerman.  You  better  come  along  for  a  transfusion.&quot;  I  figured  he  would  tell  me  over  the  cup  ofcoffee  that  he  was  taking  his  copy  of  my  story  to  New  York  to  show  to  Seymour  Knebel.  For  a  hundred  reasons  I  was  in  ecstasy,  When  he  told  me  to  come  along  for  my  transfusion,  I  could  not  remember  having  myself  ever  felt  like  such  a  round  character  before.  What  Mann  had  done  for  him,  he  was  about  to  do  for  me.  Literary  historyin  the  making.  Good  thing  Andrea  was  there  to  get  it  all  down  for  posterity.  But  over  his  coffee  Abravanel  said  not  a  word,  just  leaned  his  long  demi-  emaciated  frame  back  in  his  chair,  looking  smooth  and  strokable  as  a  cat  in  his  teaching  attire  of  soft  gray  flan-  nel  slacks,  light  mauve  pullover,  and  cashmere  sports  coat.  With  hands  and  ankles  elegantly  crossed,  he  left  it  to  his  buoyant  young  companion  to  do  the  talking-lively,  funny  stories,  mostly,  about  Felix's  old  father,  an  [REDACTED]  housepainter,  and  the  winning  remarks  he  made  to  her  in  his  homely  mixture  of  two  languages.  Even  the  sociology  professor  was  bowled  over,  though  from  campus  gossip  I  knew  he  was  a  dear  friend  of  Abravanel's  litigious  first  wife  and  disapproved  of  the  writer's  treatment  of  her,  first  in  the  flesh,  then  in  fiction.  Moreover,  he  was  said  to  disapprove  of  Abravanel's  way  with  women  generally,  and,  on  top  of  that,  believed  that  a  novelist  of " b"his  stature  oughtn't  to  have  articles  about  himself  in  The  Saturday  Evening  Post.  Yet  now  the  sociology  professor  began  lifting  his  voice  so  as  to  get  Andrea  to  hear  him.  As  a  boy,  he  also  had  been  a  great  fan  of  Felix's  father's  malapropisms,  and  wanted  it  known.  *  'That  fellow,&quot;  &quot;  shouted  the  sociolo-  gist,  imitating  the  elder  Abravanel,  &quot;'he  ain't  here  no  more-poor  guy  committed  suitcase.'&quot;  If  Abravanel  thought  the  retired  housepainter  was  so  impressive  for  speaking  cockeyed  English  all  his  life,  he  didn't  let  on.  So  genteel  and  assured  and  courtly  was  the  posture  he'd  assumed  to  listen  to  Andrea  tell  her  stories  that  I  found  myself  doubting  it.  Out  in  the  open,  Abravanel's  cup  did  not  spill  overwith  sentiment  fortheold  bunch  in  [REDACTED];  such  effusions  he  left  to  readers  of  his  novels  who  had  come  to  love  the  super-  charged  emotional  world  of  his  child-  hood  as  though  it  had  been  their  own.  He  himself  seemed  to  prefer  to  look  down  at  us  from  a  long  way  off,  like  a  llama  or  a  camel.  &quot;Good  luck&quot;  was  what  he  said  to  me  when  they  got  up  to  catch  the  New  York  train-and  Andrea  said  even  less,  This  time,  because  we  knew  each  other,  she  took  my  hand  in  five  soft  fingers,  but  the  touch  of  the  fairy  princess  seemed  to  mean  much  the  same  to  me  as  the  garrison  handshake  at  the  faculty-club  reception.  She's  forgot-  ten,  I  thought,  about  Knebel.  Or  may-  be  she's  told  Abravanel  and  figured  he'd  takecareof  it,  and  he's  forgotten.  Or  maybe  she's  told  him  and  he  said,  &quot;For-  get  it.&quot;  Watching  her  leave  the  lunch-  eonette  on  Abravanel's  arm-seeing  her  hair  brush  his  shoulder  as  out  on  the  street  she  rose  up  on  her  toes  to  whis-  per  something  into  his  ear-I  realized  that  they'd  had  other  things  than  my  story  to  think  about  when  they  got  back  to  the  Windermere  the  night  before.  All  of  this  was  why,  from  Quahsay,  I  had  mailed  my  four  published  stories  to  Lonoff,  Felix  Abravanel  was  clear-  ly  not  in  the  market  for  a  twenty-  three-year-old  son.  UST  before  nine,  having  checked  the  time  on  his  watch,  Lonoff  drank  up  his  last  drop  of  brandy,  which  had  sat  thirty  minutes  at  the  bottom  of  the  glass.  He  said  that  though  he  must  be  off,  I  might  stay  in  the  living  room  and  listen  to  music,  or  if  I  preferred,  I  could  retire  to  his  study,  where  I  would  be  sleeping.  Beneath  the  cor-  duroy  cover  I  would  findthat  the  study  daybed  was  already  made  up  with  fresh  linens.  Blankets  and  an  extra  pillow  were  in  the  closet  there,  on  the  bottom  shelf,  and  fresh  towels  were  in  the  downstairs-bathroom  cup-  board-please,  I  mustn't  hesitate  to  use  the  striped  ones,  they  were  the  least  worn  and  best  for  a  shower-  and  also  in  the  cupboard,  at  the  rear  of  the  second  shelf  down,  I  would  find  a  toothbrush  in  its  original  unopened  plastic  case,  and  a  small  new  tube  of  Ipana.  Any  questions?  \xe2\x80\x9cNO.,,  Was  there  anything  else  that  I  would  need?  'Thank  you,  this  is  all  perfect.&quot;  He  winced  when  he  stood-Iumba-  go,  he  explained,  from  turning  one  too  many  sentences  around  that  day-and  said  that  he  still  had  his  evening's  read-  ing.  He  did  not  do  justice  to  a  writer unless  he  read  him  on  consecutive  days  and  for  no  less  than  three  hours  ata  sitting.  Otherwise,  despite  his  note-taking  and  un-  derlining,  he  lost  touch  with  a  book's  inner  life  and  might  as  well  not  have  begun.  Some-  times  when  he  una-  voidably  had  to  miss  a  day,  he  would  go  back  and  begin  all  over  again  rather  than  be  nagged  by  his  sense  that  he  was  wronging  a  serious  author.  He  told  me  all  this  in  the  same  fastidious  way  he  had  described  the  location  of  the  toothpaste  and  towels:  a  blunt,  colloquial,  pointedly  ungrandiloquent  Lonoff  seemed  to  take  turns  with  a  finicky,  floorwalker  Lonoff  as  official  repre-  sentative  to  the  unwritten  world.  &quot;My  wife  considers  this  a  grave  affliction,&quot;  he  added.  &quot;I  don't  know  how  to  relax.  Soon  she'll  be  telling  me  to  go  out  and  have  a  good  time.&quot;  &quot;Not  that  soon,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It's  only  as  it  should  be,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;for  somebody  else  to  think  I'm  a  fool.  But  I  can't  afford  the  luxury  myself.  How  else  am  I  supposed  to  read  a  book  of  real  depth?  For  'enjoyment'?  For  the  hell  of  it-to  put  me  to  sleep?&quot;  Wearily-more  ready  for  bed,  I  would  have  thought,  from  the  tired,  irascible  tone,  than  for  one  hundred  and  eighty  minutes  concentrating  on  the  inner  life  of  a  deep  book  by  a  serious  au-  thor-he  asked,  &quot;How  else  am  Ito  conduct  my  life?&quot;  &quot;How  else  would  you  like  to?&quot;  Well,  I  had  done  it,  escaped  at  last  from  wooden  self-consciousness  and  egregious  overearnestness-and  sporad-  ic  attempts  to  be  witty  in  the  Lonovian  mode-and  put  to  him  a  direct,  simple  question,  the  answer  to  which  I  want-  ed  very  much  to  hear.  &quot;How  else  might  I  like  to?&quot;  It  thrilled  me  to  see  him  standing  there  taking  altogether  seriously  what  I  had  asked.  &quot;Yes,.  How  would  you  live  now,  if  you  had  your  way?&quot;  Rubbing  at  the  small  of  his  back,  he  replied,  &quot;I  would  live  in  a  villa  outside  Florence.&quot;  &quot;Yes?  With  whom?&quot;  &quot;A  woman,  of  course.&quot;  He  an-  swered  without  hesitation,  as  though  I  were  another  grown  man.  So,  as  though  I  were  one,  I  went " b"ahead  and  asked,  &quot;How  old  would  she  be,  this  woman?&quot;  He  smiled  down  at  me,  &quot;We  have  both  had  too  much  to  drink.&quot;  I  showed  him  that  there  was  brandy  enough  still  to  swirl  in  my  snifter.  &quot;For  us,&quot;  he  added,  and  not  both-  ering  this  time  to  catch  the  trouser  crease  in  his  fingers,  sat  back  down  somewhat  gracelessly  in  his  chair.  &quot;Please,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;I  don't  mean  to  keep  you  from  reading.  I'll  be  fine  alone.&quot;  &quot;Sometimes,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;I  like  to  imagine  I've  read  my  last  book.  And  looked  for  the  last  time  at  my  watch.  How  old  would  you  think  she  should  be?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;The  woman  in  Florence.  As  a  writer,  what  would  be  your  guess?&quot;  &quot;I  think  you'll  have  to  ask  me  to  guess  that  thirty  years  fromnow.  I  don't  know.&quot;  &quot;I  say  thirty-five.  How  does  that  strike  you?&quot;  &quot;As  right,  if  you  say  so.&quot;  &quot;She  would  be  thirty-five  and  she  would  make  life  beautiful  for  me.  She  would  make  life  comfortable  and  beau-  tiful  and  new.  She  would  drive  me  in  the  afternoon  to  San  Gimignano,  to  the  Uffizi,  to  Siena.  In  Siena  we  would  visit  the  cathedral  and  drink  coffee  in  the  square.  At  the  breakfast  table  she  would  wear  long  feminine  nightgowns  under  her  pretty  robe.  They  would  be  things  I  had  bought  for  her  ina  shop  by  the  Ponte  Vecchio.  I  would  work  in  a  cool  stone  room  with  French  windows.  There  would  be  flowers  in  a  vase.  She  would  cut  them  and  put  them  there.  And  so  on,  Nathan,  in  this  vein.&quot;  Most  men  want  to  be  children  again,  or  kings,  or  quarterbacks,  or  multimillionaires.  All  Lonoff  seemed  to  want  was  a  thirty-five-year-old  wom-  an  and  a  year  abroad.  I  thought  of  Abravanel,  that  fruit-gatherer,  and  the  Israeli  actres-'&quot;like  lava&quot;-who  was  Abravanel's  third  wife.  And  ofthat  rounded  character  Andrea  Rumbough.  In  whose  sea  did  Andrea  bob  now?  &quot;If  that's  all  ..  .&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Go  on.  We're  having  a  drunken  conversation.&quot;  &quot;If  that's  all,  it  doesn't  sound  too  hard  to  arrange,&quot;  I  heard  myself  tell-  ing  him.  &quot;Oh,  yes?  What  young  woman  that  you  know  is  out  looking  for  a  fifty-  six-year-old  bald  man  to  accompany  to  4974616c79?&quot;  &quot;You're  not  the  stereotypical  bald  man  of  fifty-six.  4974616c79  with  you  wouldn't  be  4974616c79  with  anyone.&quot;  &quot;What  does  that  mean?  I'm  sup-     posed  to  cash  in  the  seven  books  for  a  piece  of  ass?&quot;  The  unforeseen  plunge  into  street  talk  made  we  feel  momentarily  like  the  boutonnicred  floorwalker.  &quot;That  isn't  what  I  meant.  Though  of  course  that  happens,  such  thingsare  done.  ..  .&quot;  Yes,  in  New  York  you  must  see  a  lot  of  it.&quot;  &quot;No  one  with  seven  books  in  New  York  City  settles  for  one  piece  of  ass.  That's  what  you  get  for  acouplet.&quot;  I  had  spoken  as  though  I  knew  what  I  was  talking  about.  &quot;All  I  meant  was  that  you'renot  exactly  asking  for  a  harem.&quot;  &quot;Like  the  fat  lady  said  about  the  polka-dot  dress,  'It's  nice,  but  it's  not  Lonoff.\xc2\xae  &quot;  &quot;Why  not?&quot;  &quot;Why  not?&quot;  he  repeated,  a  little  scornfully.  &quot;I  meant-why  couldn't  it  be?&quot;  &quot;Why  should  it  be?&quot;  &quot;Because-you  want  it.&quot;  His  answer:  &quot;Not  a  good  enough  reason.&quot;  I  lacked  the  courage  to  ask  &quot;Why  not?&quot;  yet  again.  If  drunk,  still  only  drunk  Jews.  So  far  and  no  farther,I  was  sure.  And  I  was  right.  &quot;No,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;you  don't  chuck  a  woman  out  after  thirty-five  years  be-  cause  you'd  prefer  to  see  a  new  face  over  your  fruit  juice.&quot;  Thinking  of  his  fiction,  I  had  to  wonder  if  he  had  ever  let  her  in-or  the  children,  either,  who,  he  had  told  me  earlier,  had  provided  him  with  diversion  and  brought  a  certain  gaiety  into  his  world  for  as  long  as  they  lived  at  home.  In  his  seven  volumes  of  stories  I  could  not  think  ofa  single  hero  who  was  not  abachelor,a  widow-  er,  an  orphan,  a  foundling,  or  a  re-  luctant  fianc\xc3\xa9.  &quot;But  there's  more  to  it  than  that,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;More  to  it  than  the  new  face  ...  isn't  there?&quot;  &quot;What,  the  bed?  I  had  the  bed.  I  know  my  singularity,&quot;  said  Lonoff,  &quot;and  what  I  owe  to  it.&quot;  Here,  abrupt-  ly,  he  concluded  our  drunken  conver-  sation.  &quot;I've  got  my  reading.  Let  me  show  you  before  I  go  how  to  work  the     phonograph.  We  have  an  excellent  classical-record  collection,  You  know  about  wiping  the  records?  There  is  a  cloth-&quot;  He  came  heavily  to  his  feet-slowly  and  heavily,  like  an  elephant.  All  the  obstinacy  seemed  to  have  gone  out  of  him,  whether  owing  to  our  exchange  or  the  pain  in  his  back-or  exhaustion  with  his  singularity-I  didn't  know.  Maybe  every  day  ended  like  this.  &quot;Mr.  Lonof-Manny,&quot;  I_  said,  &quot;may  I  ask  you  something  before  you  go,  while  we're  alone-about  my  stories?  I  don't  know  if  I  entirely  un-  derstood  what  you  meant  by  '&quot;turbu-  lence.  At  dinner.  I  don't  mean  to  hang  on  to  one  word,  but  any  word  from  you-well,  I'd  like  to  be  sure  I  understand  it.  That  is,  I'm  thrilled  just  that  you  read  them,  and  I'm  still  amazed  even  to  have  been  invited,  and  now  staying  over-all  that  should  be  enough.  It  is  enough.  And  the  toast  you  made&quot;-I  felt  my  emotions  get-  ting  out  of  hand,  as  I  had,  to  my  astonishment,  while  receiving  my  col-  lege  diploma  with  my  parents  looking  on-&quot;I  hope  I  can  live  up  to  it.  I  don't  take  those  words  lightly.  But  about  the  stories  themselves,  what  Id  like  to  know  is  what  you  think  is  wrong  with  them,  what  you  think  I  might  do-to  be  better?&quot;  How  benign  was  his  smile!  Even  while  kneading  the   lumbago.  &quot;Wrong?&quot;  (\xe2\x80\x98YeS-n  &quot;Look,  I  told  Hope  this  morning:  Zuckerman  has  the  most  compelling  voice  I've  encountered  in  years,  cer-  tainly  for  somebody  starting  out.&quot;  (CD0  I?\xe2\x80\x99)  &quot;I  don't  mean  style&quot;-raising  a  finger  to  make  the  distinction.  &quot;I  mean  voice:  something  that  begins  at  around  the  back  of  the  knees  and  reaches  well  above  the  head.  Don't  worry  too  much  about  'wrong.'  Just  keep  going.  You'll  get  there.&quot;  There.  I  tried  to  envision  it,  but  couldn't.  It  was  more  than  I  could  take  being  here.  I  told  Hope  this  morning.  Meanwhile,  buttoning  his  jacket  and  smoothing  down  his  tie-and  checking  his  watch  with  the  glance  that  ruined  his  wife's  every  Sunday-he  attended  to  the  last  item  of  business  on  the  agenda.  Working  the  record-player.  I  had  interrupted  his  train  of  thought.  &quot;I  want  to  show  you  what  happens  if  the  arm  doesn't  go  all  the  way  back  at  the  end  of  the  record.&quot;  &quot;Sure,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;absolutely.&quot;  &quot;It's  been  acting  up  lately  and  no-  body  is  able  to  fix  it.  Some  days  it  " b"somehow  fixes  itself,  and  then  out  of  the  blue  it's  on  the  blink  again.&quot;  I  followed  him  over  to  the  turn-  table,  thinking  less  about  his  classical-  record  collection  than  about  my  voice  starting  back  of  my  knees.  This  is  the  volume,  of  course.  This  is  the  start  button.  This  is  the  reject,  you  push  it-&quot;  And  this,  I  realized,  is  the  excruciat-  ing  scrupulosity,  the  same  maddening,  meticulous  attention  to  every  last  de-  tail  that  makes  you  great,  that  keeps  you  goingand  got  you  through  and  now  is  dragging  you  down.  Standing  with  E.  I.  Lonoff  over  the  disobedi-  ent  arm  of  his  record-player,  I  under-  stood  the  celebrated  phenomenon  for  the  first  time:  a  man,  his  destiny,  and  his  work-all  one.  What  a  terrible  tri-  umph!  &quot;And,&quot;  he  reminded  me,  &quot;it  would  be  best  for  the  records,  and  for  your  own  pleasure,  if  you  remember  to  wipe  them  first.&quot;  Oh,  the  fussiness,  the  fastidiousness!  The  floorwalker  incarnate!  To  wrestle  the  blessing  of  his  fiction  out  of  that  misfortune-&quot;triumph&quot;  didn't  begin  to  describe  it.  I  wanted  suddenly  to  kiss  him.  I  know  this  happens  to  men  more  often  than  is  reported,  but  I  was  new  to  manhood  (about  five  minutes  into  it,  actually)  and  was  bewildered  by  the  strength  of  a  feeling  that  I  had  rarely  had  toward  my  own  father  once  'd  begun  to  shave.  It  seemed,  at  the  mo-  ment,  even  stronger  than  what  in-  variably  came  over  me  when  I  was  left  alone  with  those  long-necked  aerial  friends  of  Betsy's,  who  walked  with  their  feet  turned  charmingly  outward  and  looked  (just  like  Betsy!)  so  ap-  petizingly  wan  and  light  and  liftable.  But  in  this  house  of  forbearance  I  was  better  at  suppressing  my  amorous  im-  pulses  than  I  had  been  lately,  un-  chained  in  [REDACTED]."