 b" MR.  AND  MRS.  BABY   Wake  Up  T  is  morning  in  [REDACTED].  The  sea,  I  parading  its  troughs,  flashing  its  foamy  crests,  keeps  heaving  itself  onto  the  shore.  And  the  sky  sends  its  delicate,  inexhaustible  spread  of  trans-  parence  into  every  atom  of  air  so  that  the  warm  dome  of  promise,  of  caressing  light,  can  discover  the  place  where  the  Babys  lie  buried  in  the  sheeted,  blan-  keted  world  of  slumber.  How  innocent  they  are  in  their  easy  recumbency.  How  lucky  that  the  difference  between  sleep  and  wakefulness  canbe  so  blurred,  diminished,  and  finally  erased  without  pain.  The  waking  of  the  Babys  is  a  lovely  rising  from  crumpled  linen  and  its  odors  of  cologne  into  lazy,  ten-  tative  antemeridian  amorousness.  Yet  in  an  hour'stime  how  close  to  sadness  they  will  be  in  the  world  of  light,  its  ordeals  of  fixity,  of  ornament,  of  re-  sponsibility:  Baby  Hades.  How  Mr.  anp  [REDACTED].  Basy  LookEn  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Baby  looked  familiar.  Bob  Baby  had  the  wide  but  serious  mouth  of  Alan  Roscoe  when  he  played  in  &quot;The  Last  of  the  Mohicans,&quot;  and  his  blueeyes  were  like  Bing  Crosby's  in  &quot;The  Bells  of  St.  Mary's,&quot;  with  the  same  soft,  otherworldly  look;  yet  at  times  they  took  on  the  stern,  no-non-  sense  gaze  that  was  Bing's  in  &quot;Going  My  Way.&quot;  His  black  hair  fell  down  over  his  right  eye  the  way  Gable's  al-  ways  did.  His  cheeks  had  the  fallen  firmness  of  Ronald  Colman's  in  &quot;Lost  Horizon&quot;  or  Richard  Egan's  in  &quot;Khy-  ber  Patrol.&quot;  But  the  marvellous  jaw  was  straight  Cooper-the  Cooper  of  &quot;Beau  Geste.&quot;  His  nose  was  Heston's,  with  the  same  tip  and  the  same  slant  of  nostril.  His  walk  and  his  air  of  purpose  were  just  a  cut  below  Kenneth  More's  in  &quot;The  Admirable  Crichton&quot;  -he  al-  ways  dreamed  of  going  tuxedoed  to  the  beach.  His  ears  were  unmistakably  Herbert  43616e616461hall's,  and  his  eyebrows  were  perfectly  peaked,  with  just  the  right  amount  of  hair;  in  other  words,  they  were  Errol  Flynn's-the  great  Flynn  of  &quot;The  Charge  of  the  Light  Brigade.&quot;  His  body,  alas,  was  undistin-  guished,  with  the  same  bleached  rubes-  cence  of  Walter  Slezak's  in  all  his  movies  since  &quot;Once  Upon  a  Honey-  moon.&quot;  Babe  Baby's  face  had  the  tran-  scendental  sweetness  of  Laura  La  Plante's.  But  her  eyes  had  the  softness,  the  downward  slant  of  Vilma  Banky's  in  &quot;Son  of  the  Sheik.&quot;  And  yet  there  was  a  touch,  especially  in  her  left  eye,  of  Dolores  Costello.  Her  cheeks  were  high  but  several  notches  lower  than  Garbo's,  and  they  had  the  fullness  of  Claudette  Colbert's,  especially  when  she  smiled.  Babe  had  a  wholesomeness,  too,  that  was  given  its  imprimatur  by  her  nose.  It  was  not  perfectly  shaped  like  Gloria  Grahame's,  not  barren  like  Betty  Hutton's,  not  swaybacked  like  Ingrid  Bergman's,  nor  with  oversized  nostrils  like  Donna  Reed's  or  Joan  Bennett's;  it  was  a  nose  like  the  radiant  Janet  Blair's.  It  was  perky  without  be-  ing  prying,  it  was  cute  without  being  cheap,  it  was  noble  without  being  un-  democratic.  Babe  wore  her  light-brown  hair  swept  back  and  short,  the  way  Norma  Shearer  did  in  &quot;A  Free  Soul.&quot;  Her  walk  was  pure  assurance,  pure  Lauren  Bacall.  And  she  was  as  poised,  when  occasion  dictated,  as  Celeste  Holm  in  &quot;Gentleman's  Agreement&quot;  or  Lilli  Palmer  in  &quot;The  Counterfeit  Traitor.&quot;  Best  of  all,  she  had  the  ro-  bust  aquatic  self-possession  of  Esther  Williams  in  &quot;Pagan  Love  Song.&quot;  Mr.  ano  [REDACTED].  Basy  ar  BREAKFAST  The  ease  they  felt  in  each  other's  presence,  though  tinged  at  times  with  regret,  even  unhappiness-deep  unhap-  piness,  even;  irreversible  misery,  it  could  be  said-allowed  them  to  share  some  of  what  was  on  their  minds.  And  like  so  many  who  have  spentyears  to-  gether,  they  could  anticipate  each  oth-  er's  questions  as  well  as  answers.  Thus,  at  breakfast,  Bob  knew  what  Babe  was  thinking  when  he  said,  &quot;Soyou  want  to  know  where  they  came  from.  And  you  want  to  know  how  they  came.  They  came  from  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED],  from  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED],  from  [REDACTED]  and  the  [REDACTED],from  [REDACTED]  and  4974616c79;  they  came  from  4368696e61  and  the  [REDACTED];  they  came  and  they  came,  and  they  brought  their  aunts  and  cousins,  sisters  and  brothers,  moth-  ers  and  fathers;  they  brought  them  by  boat,  by  train,  by  plane;  they  walked  and  they  ran  and  they  came  with  satchels,  trunks,  suitcases,  boxes;  they  kept  coming  in  waves,  in  droves,  in  trickles,  but  they  kept  coming;  they  came  at  night  or  in  bright  day;  they  came  in  the  wrecking  storm,  they  came  in  the  calm  of  noon;  they  came  waving  their  arms,  stamping  their  feet,  speak-  ing  Dutch,  Rumanian,  Serbian,  Czech,  Urdu;  they  came  with  hats  or  with-  out-it  made  no  difference  to  those  hearty  people;  they  wore  dark  suits  and  long  dresses;  many  were  overweight,  but  they  came  and  they  came.  Some  were  professors,  some  were  bricklayers,  some  were  chicken  farmers,  but  they  came,  and  they  went  to  [REDACTED]  and  Towa  and  Illinois;  they  came  and  they  went  to  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED];  they  came  and  they  went  to  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  and  Ha-  wail.  They  were  the  Smiths,  the  Gold-  bergs,  the  Rodriguezes,  the  Babys.  Yes,  the  Babys  were  part  of  it,  were  halfof  it,  were  all  of  it.  Everyone  was  a  Baby  and  the  Babys  were  every-  one.&quot;  Babe  was  silent,  then  slowly  began  to  laugh  in  nervous  acknowledgment  of  the  vistas  that  opened  before  her,  and  behind  her  in  case  she  unexpected-  ly  turned  around.  Out  of  control,  her  laughter  increased  in  tempo.  She  shook  and  snorted,  and  even  howled,  in  trib-  ute  to  what  she  had  heard.  Bob,  tak-  en  with  the  unexpected  sweep  of  his  speech,  could  not  havebeen  more  pleased  by  her  response.  Mrs.  Basy  Has  an  ExPERIENCE  Babe  pulled  herself  together  and  went  to  the  beach,  some  books  of  poet-  ry  tucked  under  her  arm.  She  thought  more  about  the  future  than  she  did  of  the  past.  And  she  believed  the  daily  unfolding  of  events  was  oblivious  of  her  needs.  What  were  her  needs?  And  who  needed  them  anyway?  She  sat  on  the  sand,  read  a  little,  then  drifted  into  thought.  How  did  I  get  here  if  not  below  the  surface,  allowing  the  deep  you-know-  what  to  figure  things  out?  How  did  I  get  here,  if  not  in  Bob's  blue  Mercedes  disappearing  down  into  the  canyon,  then  into  this  vanishing  light?  Fix  your  eyes  on  the  sea  and  its  lunging  ;  lounge,  as  you  will,  in  semi-coma,  remember-  " b"ing  the  hand  trucks  of  opportunity,the  boatloads  of  promise  that  were  ex-  changed  for  this  distant  now,  its  plung-  ings,  its  watery  walls,  its  towers  of  bubble!  Lie  back  and  be  stirred  by  the  glitter  of  sense,  as  if  you  were  the  mak-  er  of  the  words  you  heard,  heard  al-  most  as  medleyed  sound,  a  maker  of  the  words  you  might  utter;  for  you  are  the  maker  ofthe  words  you  heard,  and  if  there  is  another  maker  he  is  nowhere  near.  This  sudden  rush  of  thoughts  scared  Babe,  scored  itself  deep  into  her  vi-  sion  of  self-scarred  her,  in  fact-  so  she  decided  to  say  nothing  to  Bob  of  the  mysterious  turn  her  mind  had  taken.  Mr.  Basy  Arso  Has  an  ExPERIENCE  There  is  a  time  of  day  when  quiet-  ness  invades  the  landscape  and  takes  up  residence  in  all  the  things  one  sees.  Every  leaf,  every  cloud  is  suddenly  still  and  is  viewed  with  unusual  clarity,  and  in  that  moment  itis  as  if  the  des-  tiny  of  each  thing  were  revealed.  This  awesome  ascent  into  consciousness,  into  luminous,  crystalline  recognition  was  not  lost  on  Mr.  Baby,  who  stood  alone  on  the  lawn  in  front  of  his  house.  Brought  outside  by  a  restlessness  whose  source  was  obscure,  he  was  likewise  brought  out  of  himself  into  a  spacious  aura  of  epiphanous  light,  into  an  open-  nessof  being  that  took  him  by  surprise.  With  a  knowledge  almost  too  deep  for  tears,  he  saw  all  things  ablaze  with  the  glory  of  their  own  mortality.  He  lin-  gered  until  the  world  around  him  sud-  denly  resumed  its  normal  aspect,  then  he  went  inside  and  began  to  pace  on  the  green  living-room  rug.  He  won-  dered  why  he  was  here  and  not  there,  why  he  had  chosen  the  life  he  had  in-  stead  of  the  life  he  hadn't,  why  he  felt  as  he  did  and,  sometimes,  as  he  didn't.  Thus  it  was  that  Bob  Baby  wrote  his  first  poem  and  decided  to  say  nothing  about  it  to  Babe.  Txge  Basys  Skip  Luncon  At  making  do  or  doing  without,  the  Babys  wished  to  think  themselves  ac-  complished.  So  at  lunch,  when  neither  of  them  took  the  time  to  sit  down  and  have  a  bite,  it  was  done  with  a  grace  bordering  on  the  regal,  They  felt  the  glory  of  self-abnegation  because  they  understood  too  well  the  degradation  of  fulfillment.  There  would  be  no  linen  tablecloth  today,  no  silverware,  no  suc-  cession  of  dishes  each  with  its  own  bouquet  of  steam  whichseemed  to  ripen  in  the  hazy  sunlit  air  of  the  dining  room,  There  would  be  no  tomnarell  alla  ciociara,  those  thin  linguine-like  noodles  in  a  sauce  of  fresh  funghi,  no  light,  smoky  Gavi  dei  Gavi  to  wash  it  down  with,  or  even  a  pasticcio  con  melanzane  so  reminiscent  of  Sicily;  no  mozzarella  in  carrozza,  no  beef  tongue  with  green  sauce,  no  grilled  zucchini  with  Sardo  cheese,  no  pissaladi\xc3\xa9re  pro-  vengale,  with  its  hefty  aroma  of  an-  chovy  and  onion,  no  clefout;  of  Bing  cherries  touched  with  ginger.  There  would  be  no  bare  table  and  paper  napkins  even,  no  sandwiches,  odorless  and  sterile  in  small  dishes,  no  gaunt  glasses  of  apple  juice,  no  stopgap  noshes  of  any  sort.  The  dining  room  would  be  empty,  and  the  Babys  would  bask  in  the  image  of  its  foodless  clarity  and  silently  applaud  the  splendor  of  its  austerity,  the  clean  denial  of  its  des-  tiny.  Mr.  anp  [REDACTED].  Basy  Have  a  Goop  Cry  It  was  as  if  the  exertion  of  denial  had  proved  too  much,  and  the  ache  of  emptiness  had  become  more  than  a  meal  put  aside.  They  sank  into  listless-  ness,  each  of  them  slumped  in  a  chair,  staring  outside,  emitting  weak,  barely  " b"audible  sighs.  The  restorative  power  of  consciousness  that  had  worked  its  magic  on  them  only  hours  before  was  now  lacking.  Each  of  them  felt  defeated  by  a  motif  that  missing  lunch  was  only  the  most  obvious  sign  of.  They  were  not  speaking.  It  was  as  if  they  had  for-  gotten  how.  They  were  estranged  even  from  each  other.  It  was  this,  perhaps,  that  made  them  seem  now  smaller  and  more  frail  than  ever,  and  why  their  sighs  gave  way  to  tears  and  sniffles.  They  looked  at  each  other  pathetically,  their  eyes  seeming  to  ask:  Why,  why  do  we  feel  this  way?  The  answer  came  with  a  volley  of  sobs  and  a  down-  pour  of  tears.  The  Babys  wept  with-  out  shame.  Mr.  anp  [REDACTED].  Basy  Have  a  TALK  Bob  and  Babe  dried  their  eyes  and  looked  at  each  other  with  an  intensity  that  had  been  lacking  in  the  moments  preceding  their  cry.  And  the  way  each  of  them  sat-Babe  with  her  legs  crossed,  Bob  with  his  hands  clasped  behind  his  head-seemed  to  suggest  that  life  was  good.  &quot;Life  is  good,&quot;  said  Babe.  &quot;It's  crazy  for  usto  feel  the  way  we  did.&quot;  &quot;Say,&quot;  said  Bob.  &quot;How  about  we  have  a  bite?&quot;  &quot;Do  you  think  we  should?&quot;  said  Babe.  &quot;Don't  you  think  that'd  be  gild-  ing  the  lily?  I  mean,  we  don't  have  to  eat  just  to  prove  life  is  good.&quot;  &quot;I  know  what  you  mean,&quot;  said  Bob.  Conscious  of  how  much  they  had  been  through,  he  felt  mellow.  The  stillness  of  the  room,  its  warm,  sun-  lit  air  contributed  to  a  feeling  of  having  arrived.  Everything  seemed  bal-  anced,  complete.  It  was  easy  to  give  into  the  benevolence  of  fate;  life  was  not  only  good,  it  was  worth  waiting  for,  &quot;We  are  such  fools,&quot;  said  Babe.  Somewhere  up  the  street  a  dog  barked,  and  gave  up,  and  barked  again.  The  sound  was  forlorn  and  seemed  to  measure  the  silence  instead  of  breaking  it.  Bob  didn't  mind.  He  liked  the  way  the  afternoon  was  winding  down,  the  gradual  lengthening  of  shadows  every-  where.  A  small  breeze  entered  the  room,  barely  shaking  the  sheer  muslin  curtains.  &quot;I  know  what  you  mean,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'm  so  happy  at  this  moment  I  could  cry,&quot;  said  Babe,  and  she  jumped up,  went  quickly  to  Bob,  and  kissed  him  lightly  on  the  cheek.  Bob:  smiled,  his  hands  clasped  behind  his  head.  Mr.  anp  [REDACTED].  BaBy  Go  Toa  Party  Sometimes  on  summer  evenings,  when  the  light  is  almost  gone,  when  every-  thing  has  taken  on  a  heavy,  exhausted  aspect,  there  can  be  felt  in  the  air  a  rest-  lessness,  a  furtive  rustling,  a  burgeoning  of  desire.  This  evening,  while  the  Babys  prepared  to  go  out,  the  ur-  &quot;  gency  of  promised  adven-  ture  was  so  palpable  that  the  neighborhood  seemed  to  murmur  with  pleasure.  And  when  they  walked  to  the  party  they  were  almost  overcome  with  the  magical  intimacy  of  leaves  saturat-  ing  the  air  with  the  odor  of  green,  the  sweet  seasoning  of  summer.  Furtive  above  them,  above  the  motionless  canopy  of  maples,  was  the  open  gaze  of  the  moon.  Everyone  at  the  party,  drifters  and  flitters,  merged  willingly  into  the  amiable  flow.  Round  and  round  they  went  with  round  af-  ter  round  of  drink,  their  voices,  muted  by  the  low-ceilinged  interior,  mingling  naturally  with  the  barely  audible  sounds  coming  from  the  stereo.  There  was  no  change  all  evening.  Nothing  was  happening.  The  Babys  stayed  only  as  long  as  they  had  to  and  then  walked  home.  Mr.  anp  [REDACTED].  Basy  Go  to  SLEEP  Now,  at  day's  end,  the  Babys  slip  naked  into  bed,  their  limbs  overcome  with  weariness,  their  minds  dimming,  giving  way  to  the  power  and  grandeur  of  nothingness,  the  silent  ohs  and  ahs  of  oblivion.  Oh  Babys!  Ah  Babys!  Whither  now?  Whither  later?  It's  all  the  same.  Among  the  celestial  acts  in  the  theatre  of  night,  in  the  superdome  of  the  firmament,  where  distance  is  a  monotonous  allegory  of  diminishment,  a  shifting  ofsolar  dust,  a  waltzing  of  matter  to  the  tune  of  darkness,  a  grave  passage  of  this  and  that,  what  does  it  mean  that  you  are  asleep,  adriftin  the  spectral  silt  of  the  unknown?  W  hat  has  the  relentless  fury  of  particles  to  do  with  you?  Pull  your  covers  up  to  your  chins.  Sleep  tight;  another  Baby  day  is  on  its  way,.   "