 b"IT\xe2\x80\x99S  Friend  Twin.  Looks  like  a   friend,  feels  like  a  friend,  gives  off  a  little  sigh  of  pleasure  when  you  do  things  together.  Friend  Twin  asks  about  your  screenplay,  supports  you  while  you  lie  in  the  giant  redwood  steaming  appliance  and  enter  altered  states  (face  down  in  the  steam,  all  senses  distorted,  your  arms,  your  legs  all  gone);  Friend  Twin  does  not  steal  your  screenplay  while  you  lie  in  the  redwood  steaming  appliance,  does  not  talk  to  an  agent  behind  your  back,  does  not  take  your  press  contact  to  La  Grinn,  the  new  Chinese  restaurant  where  the  banquettes  are  lacquered  and  the  food  comes  in  lacquered  crates  just  like  the  special  crates  you  can  lock  yourself  into  for  darkness-accommoda-  tion  therapy,  only  small.  Friend  Twin  is  so  much  like  a  real  friend  that  once  he's  seated  at  table,  most  people  can't  tell  the  difference.  Friend  Twin  raises  his  arm.  Friend  Twin  brings  his  spoon  to  his  soup.  Friend  Twin  talks  about  the  deal  Fred-  dy  Friyn  has  made  with  Barbara  Krearn,  which  cuts  out  Marty  Rupp  and  everyone  else  who  had  to  leave  the  studio  because  they  took  the  old  silver  sconces  from  the  walls-those  solid-  silver  sconces  Lewis  Routh  had  put  in  in  the  great  old  days,  when  he  wanted  the  studio  to  look  just  like  a  private  home.  We  knew  Marty  was  unscrew-  ing  the  sconces,  slipping  them  away,  cutting  them  into  tiny  pieces  and  taking  them  out  in  his  hands.  Sometimes  the  edges  were  jagged  and  his  hands  were  cut.  That's  how  we  caught  Marty-by  matching  the  blood  on  the  bare  places  where  the  sconc-  es  had  been  with  the  blood  type  on  his  hand,  in  his  hand,  in  the  veins  of  his  hand.  Marty  has  a  special  blood  type,  and  he  brought  that  up  in  a  play  for  sympa-  thy.  Also  the  fact  that  he's  been  under  a  lot  of  stress.  Friend  Twin  is  sympathetic.  Friend  Twin  understands  about  stress.  Also,  he  knows  all  the  gossip.  That's  the  thing  to  remember  about  Friend  Twin.  Maintenance  is  way  down-  he  stays  under  the  floorboards,  up  in  the  cramped  bedrooms,  &quot;Frumble,  there's  anywhere,  without  complaint-but  even  so,  he  knows  all  the  gossip.  With  a  real  friend,  you'd  have  to  teach  him  all  the  gossip  and  then  you'd  have  to  deal  with  his  legitimate  human  needs.  You'd  have  to  listen  to  a  lot  of  swinish  talk  about  What  I  want  blah  blah  blah,  you  never  think  about  me  fulfilling  my  needs  blah  blah  blah,  I  want  time  to  fire  my  beautiful  blue  pots  in  my  kiln  blah  blah.  Friend  Twin  has  no  needs.  Friend  Twin  has  no  legitimate  human  aspirations.  Friend  Twin  only  wants  to  please.  And  he  wants  you  to  know  the  latest  gossip-about  the  remake  of  &quot;Woman  Luck&quot;  with  an  all-woman  cast,  with  Sally  Undorn  as  the  bitch  and  Fraan  Harvey  as  the  girl  who  has  the  wasting  disease  and  Polly  Morfer  as  the  little  one  who  has  a  lapse.  He  wants  you  to  know.  And  he  wants  to  help.  Friend  Twin  only  wants  to  help.  Friend  Twin  wants  to  know  about  any  sexual  quirks.  Friend  Twin  is  not  judgmental.  Friend  Twin  will  stay  quiet  and  watch.  Or  say  what  is  appro-  priate.  Friend  Twin  wants  to  help  clean  up.  No  matter  what  the  accumu-  lation,.  No  matter  how  it  looks.  Friend  T  win  makes  a  note  of  it.  But  what  do  you  care  about  that?  It's  natural  that  Friend  Twin  should  make  a  note,  keep  it  in  mind,  store  it  for  later.  Friend  Twin  only  wants  to  preserve  the  link  without  imposing.  Remember  when  you  left  for  a  weekend?  Spent  the  weekend  in  the  black  crate,  deprived  every  sense  of  its  function,  lay  there  fordays,  waiting  forthe  arms  to  disappear,  for  the  legs  to  disappear,  to  feel  that  absence?  Re-  member  how  your  old  friend-who  came  from  where?  the  upper  peninsula  of  [REDACTED],  was  it?-remember  how  your  old  friend  stole  into  your  apart-  ment  while  you  were  gone  and  took  your  screenplay  behind  your  back  to  the  Ursa  Company,  the  new  company  formed  by  the  people  who  had  the  backing  of  people  who  couldn't  come  to  town,  exactly,  who  had  to  stay  at  a  distance,  but  who  had  money,  so  much  money?  Can  you  see  your  old  friend  walking  in  the  door?  Friend  Twin  wouldn't  do  that.  Instead,  Friend  Twin  would  help  plan  a  dinner  dance.  Just  for  you,  in  your  honor.  Friend  Twin  has  style.  Friend  Twin  has  class.  Friend  Twin  knows  the  attractive  caf-  tans  from  the  ones  so  ugly  they  eat  into  the  skin.  Friend  Twin  has  so  much  style  that  sometimes  he  seems  almost  British.  Oh,  not  the  old  British-Duke  Marquis  Earl-not  that.  The  other  British-all  the  same  skill  with  arti-  facts,  all  that  tight  edge,  but  loathing  the  Dukes  and  the  Marquises,  and  the  Earls,  hating  the  way  the  light  hits  the  water,  but  willing  to  help  out  with  pleasure.  Friend  Twin  knows  what  you  want.  Friend  Twin  knows  what  you  have  wanted,  don't  forget  that.  Don't  underestimate  Friend  Twin.  Friend  Twin  will  stand  perfectly  still,  holding  your  caftan,  but  Friend  Twin  has  his  options,  with  all  he  knows. "