 b"The  thing  began  at  Olympia,  a  large  exhibition  hall  in  [REDACTED]  more  often  devoted  to  Show  Jumping  but  on  this  occasion  the  scene  of  a  tennis  World  Doubles  Champion-  ship.  The  British  pair,  curly-haired  Cox  and  his  partner,  Lloyd,  were  play-  ing  McEnroe  and  Fleming  for  a  place  in  the  finals,  and  at  one  time,  with  the  score  at  3-all  in  the  last  set  and  a  service  break  not  inconceivable,  looked  as  though,  against  all  the  odds,  they  might  win.  They  did  not,  and  I  switched  off  the  television  and  went  to  the  kitchen  for  some  ice.  A  bee  was  buzzing  about  in  there-not  a  usual  event  in  a  cold  English  January,  soI  spoke  to  it.  &quot;We  lost!&quot;  I  told  it  bit-  terly.  Of  the  two  kinds  ofinsanity  exhib-  ited  here  I  reckon  that  the  bitterness  was  the  more  extreme.  &quot;Telling  the  bees&quot;  is  an  old  English  custom,  still  practiced,  I  believe,  in  the  remoter  ru-  ral  districts  of  the  West  Country.  This  courtesy  is,  or  was,  usually  extended  in  the  event  of  a  death  in  the  family-  the  proper  procedure  being  to  tap  the  hive  three  times,  repeating  &quot;So-and-So  is  dead&quot;  at  each  tap.  The  penalty  for  failure  to  make  this  announcement  is  another  death  in  the  household  within  the  year,  or,  as  some  say,  the  departure  of  the  bees  to  some  other  and  more  communicative  locality.  Of  course,  a  solitary  bee  is  not  a  hive  and  cannot  easily  be  tapped;  but  there  is  at  least  a  precedent  for  giving  the  news  to  bees,  and,  for  all  we  know,  they  may  be  as  interested  in  one  kind  of  disaster  as  another.  What  con-  cerns  me  more  deeply  is  that  I  should,  even  mo-  mentarily,  regard  the  loss  of  a  tennis  match  as  disastrous.  Tennis  is  not  a  game  that  greatly  excites  me  per  se,  nor  one  that  I  ever  played  much  above  the  level  at  which  a  start  is  made  with  five  balls  be-  cause  the  sixth  went  into  the  laurel  hedge  last  Sun-  day.  Cox  and  Lloyd,  though  British,  were  not  playing  for  [REDACTED],  and  if  they  had  been,  their  success  could  have  re-  flected  no  conceivable  credit  on  me  personally.  They  were  playing  for  a  top  prize  of  twenty  thousand  pounds  each-a  reward,  for  a  few  days'  serv-  ing  and  returning,  so  ridiculously  out  of  proportion  as  to  fill  me,  in  my  saner  moods,  with  nausea  and  despair.  What  kind  of  distorted  patriotism,  national-  ism,  chauvinism  is  this  that  makes  me  care  tuppence  whether  a  backhand  crosscourt  volley  with  heavy  top  spin  did  or  did  not  land  one  inch  outside  the  line  and  that  drives  me  untimely  into  the  kitchen  to  cry  out  &quot;We  lost!&quot;  to  a  solitary  out-of-season  bee.  Who  is  &quot;we,&quot;  for  God's  sake?  It  is  useless,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  to  tell  bees  anything.  They  can'thear.  I  ought  to  have  known  that,  because  when  writing,  years  ago,  in  these  pagesabout  Gilbert  White  and  the  effect  of  echoes  on  bees,  I  quoted  a  passage  in  which  that  capable  eigh-  teenth-century  naturalist  denies  that  the  creatures  respond  in  any  way  to  sounds.  He  proved  it  for  himself  by  roaring  at  them  through  a  speaking  trumpet  held  close  to  their  hive  and  noting  that  they  failed  to  show  &quot;the  least  sensibility  or  resentment.&quot;  Per-  haps  he  should  have  tapped  first,  to  gain  their  attention,  though  I  doubt  whether  it  would  have  made  any  dif-  ference,  All  that  I  have  read  about  bees-and  I  have  read  a  good  deal  since  that  discreditable  incident  in  the  kitchen-seems  to  show  that  you  need  a  special  technique  to  get  any  message  through  to  them.  Take  Sir  John  Lubbock,  for  in-  stance-not  the  distinguished  astrono-  mer  &quot;J.W.&quot;  but  his  son,  a  considerable  scientist  in  his  own  right  and  a  keen  bee-watcher,  who,  about  a  century  after  Gilbert  White,  was  hard  at  it  on  the  same  old  tack  of  trying  to  make  himself  heard.  Aware  that,  on  occa-  sion,  a  new  queen  in  the  hive  sets  up  an  intermittent  piping,to  which  any  residual  young  queens  appear  to  respond,  he  naturally  asked  himself  what  was  the  point  of  this  exchange  of  sounds  if  neither  party  couldhear  them.  They  might  as  well  be  discussing  Home  Rule  in  Parliament.  Neverthe-  less,  Sir  Johnwas  unable  to  get  his  bees  to  take  any  notice  of  any  sound  he  could  devise,  and  in  the  end,  reluctant  to  believe  that  all  this  piping  was  to  no  avail,  fell  back  on  the  supposition  that  they  could  only  hear  higher  notes  than  any  at  his  personal  disposal.  Now  take  another  great  leap  for-  ward,  this  time  of  half  a  century  or  more,  and  see  what  Karl  von  Frisch,  the  &quot;Dancing  Bees&quot;  man,  has  to  say.  He  will  have  none  of  this  &quot;higher  note&quot;  shilly-shallying.  To  the  duet  within  the  hive  he  readily  admits.  &quot;The  free  queen,&quot;  he  says,  &quot;emits  a  kind  of  piping  sound  and  the  imprisoned  queens  also  make  similar  noises  which,  however,  from  the  depth  of  their  dun-  geons  sound  like  a  hollow  'quack  quack,&quot;  &quot;  and  he  goes  on  to  tell  us  how  &quot;Bee-keep-  ers  maintain  that  the  quacking  bees  are  asking  whether  there  is  a  queen  about,  and  as  long  as  they  get  an  answering  piping,  they  take  good  care  not  to  leave  the  protection  of  their  cells.&quot;  They  know  very  well,  you  see,  that  she  will  not  tolerate  any  rivals,  This  sounds  like  good  bee  sense  to  me,  but  it  won't  do  for  yon  Frisch.  Bees,  he  states  cat-  egorically,  &quot;are  unable  to  distinguish  between  pip-  ing  and  quacking&quot;-and  how  I  wish  I  had  been  around  while  he  was  proving  that  to  his  own  satisfaction-&quot;and  are  only  receptive  to  tones  in  their  immediate  vicinity  through  a  very  finely  de-  veloped  sense  of  touch.&quot;  So  there  we  are.  Had  I  known  all  this  before  entering  the  kitchen  I  " b"should  never  have  dreamed  of  trying  to  share  my  patriotic  distress  with  a  bee.  Even  if  you  take  the  side  of  the  beekeepers  against  von  Frisch  and  hold  that  these  insects  can  distinguish  a  pipe  from  a  quack,  the  attempt  to  com-  municate  seems  doomed  to  failure.  Try  quacking,  or  piping,  a  sentence  like  &quot;We  lost!&quot;  and  you  will  see  what  I  mean.  'The  appropriate  note  of  melan-  choly  is  altogether  missing.  As  to  any  attempt  to  get  through  to  a  beeby  means  of  its  finely  developed  sense  of  touch-no.  There  are  reasons  for  thinking  that  even  in  the  remoter  areas  of  the  West  Country  the  bereaved  sometimes  doubt-  ed  whether  their  sad  spoken  messages,  piped  or  not,  were  fully  understood  within  the  hive.  One  has  only  to  glance  at  the  &quot;Calendar  of  Customs,  Super-  stitions,  Weather-lore,  Popular  Say-  ings,  and  Important  Events  Connected  with  the  County  of  Somerset&quot;  (not,  I  realize,  a  book  on  everybody's  shelves)  to  find  that  they  employed  a  secondary  means  of  communication  quite  inde-  pendent  of  audible  sounds  ora  sense  of  hearing.  &quot;Turning  the  bees  at  a  funeral,&quot;  writes  the  editor,  Mr.  W.  G.  Willis  Watson,  &quot;was  a  custom  peculiar  to  the  West,  and  I  am  not  sure  it  has  Pe  e  yet  [1920]  died  out.  Of  course,  there  is  some  danger  in  carrying  out  the  op-  eration  .  .  .&quot;  Indeed  there  is.  As  recent  ly  as  1790  the  [REDACTED]  Argus  had  a  report,  freely  quoted  by  Mr.  Willis  Watson,  of  the  funeral  of  a  farmer  at  Cullompton,  in  Devon,  at  which,  just  as  the  cortege  was  ready  to  move  off,  someone  called  out  &quot;Turn  the  bees!  ,&quot;  whereupon  &quot;a  servant,  who  had  no  knowledge  of  such  a  custom,  instead  of  turning  the  hives  round,  lifted  them  up  and  laid  them  down  on  their  sides!&quot;  The  upshot  proved  conclusively  that  bees,  however  deaf,  however  insensitive  to  echoes,  speaking  trumpets,  quacking,  or  any  sound  that  Sir  John  Lubbock  could  devise,  respond  immediately  to  rotation  through  ninety  degrees.  These  Cullompton  bees  attended  the  obsequies  en  masse.  They  attacked  horses  and  rid-  ers,  pursuing  them  tenaciously  as  they  galloped  off,  and  there  ensued  perhaps  the  briskest  funeral  ever  seen  in  that  quiet  country  town.  &quot;General  confu-  sion  took  place,&quot;  observes  my  source  mildly,  &quot;attended  with  the  loss  of  hats,  wigs,  &amp;c.&quot;  The  message,  in  short,  had  been  received.  A  final  circumstance  must  be  re-  corded.  The  bee  in  the  kitchen,  when  I  first  saw  it,  was  dashing  about  with   all  the  agility  of  a  McEnroe  ora  Con-  nors,  swoopingfrom  side  to  side  of  the  arena,  making  swift  sorties  from  dress-  er  to  windowpane  and  back,  and  stop-  ping  short  with  marvellous  control  within  a  fraction  of  an  inch  of  this  or  that  obstruction,  varying  its  game  the  while  with  high  lobs  to  the  ceiling,  where  it  seemed  able,  by  the  use  of  a  sort  of  top  spin,  to  dart  in  any  direction  at  will.  A  lively  bee.  Nastase  himself  at  his  best  never  whizzed  about  more  athletically  or  buzzed  with  greater  fury.  Yet,  returning  within  the  hour,  I  found  this  selfsame  bee  inert  and  lifeless  on  the  windowsill.  It  is  my  be-  lief,  whatever  the  Lubbocks  and  the  von  Frisches  may  say,  that  the  shock  of  my  news  had  been  too  much  for  it.  It  was,  after  all,  a  British  bee. "