 b"Red  roofs  ahead  invite  Avery  R  Deal  forward.  Wine  lifts  his  step  over  small  obstacles  that  don't  exist  in  the  road.  The  houses  of  Worton,  which  from  a  distance  prom-  ised  a  knot  of  humanity,  seem  farther  apart  as  he  comes  closer.  Once  in  the  village,  he's  reminded  there's  not  a  door  where  he's  welcome  along  the  whole  row.  Sitting  across  from  the  Kearnses'  house,  Avery  says  his  heart  has  gone  to  flutter  again  and  he  has  blind  spots  be-  fore  his  eyes.  He  waves  a  hand  in  front  of  his  face,  trying  to  knock  the  spots  away.  Mrs.  Presnell,  watching  from  her  corner  store,  thinks  Granger  might  fire  him  this  time.  Avery  gets  health  notions  and  then  for  a  week  he's  useless  in  the  hayfield.  Avery  hasn't  stopped  at  the  Kearns-  es'  since  the  shower  for  his  wife,  Ai-  leen.  It  wasn't  really  a  shower  but  a  money  tree  on  the  kitchen  table,  with  bills  clipped  to  its  metal  branches  with  clothespins.  Holly  Kearns  has  said  she  feels  sorry  for  Aileen,  with  a  man  like  that-a  man  who  didn't  even  have  his  own  way  around  when  he  mar-  ried  her  but  they  went  everywhere  in  Aileen's  car  till  it  broke  down  and  now  they  don't  have  transportation  at  all.  It  had  looked  like  a  hundred  dollars  the  way  the  bills  were  hanging  all  over  the  tree,  but  when  Aileen  got  it  all  un-  clipped  and  took  it  outside  for  Avery  to  count  it  was  only  thirty-five.  Thur-  man  Deal,  waiting  in  the  road  for  a  share,  took  ten  dollars,  claiming  it  was  the  aspirin  money  Avery  owed  him.  After  the  argument,  Holly  Kearns  asked  Avery  inside  for  cake,  but  the  women  were  talking  about  eye  color  and  hair,  and  one  of  them  had  a  needle  dangling  over  Aileen's  wrist.  Avery  said  he  felt  poorly  and  was  leaving.  The  needle  pointed  north  and  south,  and  Aileen  came  home  saying  it  was  going  to  be  a  girl  this  time.  Avery  doesn't  want  another  girl.  His  young-  est,  Leon,  gets  headaches  and  noises  in  his  head.  In  case  Leon  grows  up  sickly,  he's  hoping  for  another  boy  to  take  his  place.  Avery  thumps  the  ground  with  his  feet,  but  the  Kearnses  pay  no  attention.  It's  the  hippies-the  new  boy  and  girl  who  are  redoing  the  house  on  the  cor-  ner-who  hurry  out  and  offer  him  a  ride.  On  the  way  to  Clayton,  the  boy  wants  to  know  if  Avery  ever  tried  comfrey.  The  girl  says  he  shouldn't  trust  doctors  because  they  don't  learn  anything  about  nutrition  in  medical  school.  If  they  would  just  let  him  off  in  front  of  Drug  Fair,  that  would  be  fine,  Avery  says.  They  want  to  wait  for  him,  but  he  says  no,  he  feels  better.  And  if  something  happened  to  him,  the  man  inside  mixing  medicine  would  know  what  to  give  him.  At  ten  o'clock,  when  the  store  closes,  Avery's  on  his  own  again.  A  few  days  later,  the  hippies  give  Avery  another  ride.  He  says  he  believes  it's  the  heart  dropsy  again,  but  he's  pay-  ing  most  attention  to  his  running  nose,  accumulations  of  phlegm  in  his  throat,  and  the  soggy  bandanna  in  his  fist.  The  girl,  Nadine,  says  he  shouldn't  put  his  energy  into  his  cold.  Her  man  isn't  talking  this  trip.  Avery  doubts  they'll  carry  him  to  Clayton  again.  But  when  they  find  his  last  name  is  Deal  the  girl  starts  making  connections.  &quot;You're  related  to  Thurman  Deal,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;Some  way,&quot;  Avery  admits.  &quot;His  father  and  my  grandfather  was  kin.  What  does  that  make  us?&quot;  &quot;And  you're  Leon  Deal's  father.&quot;  EON  is  in  the  pre-school  where  Na-  dine  works  in  the  kitchen,  but  he  misses  most  days.  The  teachers  think  his  headaches  may  be  caused  by  eye  strain,  and  Leon's  two  older  sisters  have  told  him  he's  got  to  go  for  medi-  cine  in  his  eyes.  This  past  week  the  boy  has  been  sick  again  with  the  noises  in  his  head.  At  night,  in  bed,  he  calls  his  father  down  beside  his  ear  so  he  can  hear  them,  too.  Avery  is  gentle  with  his  son.  Aileen  says  it's  him  who's  ruined  the  boy.  &quot;Is  it  like  little  bells,  what  you  hear?&quot;  Avery  asks  him.  &quot;No,&quot;  Leon  says,  &quot;It's  like  the  dog  whistle  Mr.  Granger  give  us.  So  high  you  almost  can't  hear  it  sometimes.&quot;  Avery  says  don't  worry,  he's  had  the  same  thing  himself.  The  pre-school  has  arranged  trans-  portation  for  Leon  to  the  eye  doctor,  but  when  the  county  van  comes  the  boy  is  hiding  in  the  cornfield.  While  Aileen  hunts  for  Leon,  Avery  circles  the  van,  blinking.  He's  decided  to  make  the  ex-  cursion,  too.  He  says  his  sight  has  been  at  quivers  this  week  anyway-every-  thing  has  been  jumping  double  on  him.  But  later,  when  he  gets  to  the  eye  doc-  tor,  they  want  him  to  stand  in  line  with  children  and  read  letters  in  his  turn.  Instead,  he  waits  outside-in  the  van  for  the  trip  back  home.  Avery  knows  people  say  he  likes  to  stand  close  to  medicine  more  than  to  be  treated  by  it.  He  remembers  the  time  the  Rowlands  called  the  ambu-  lance  on  him  just  because  he  was  lying  in  the  ditch  with  the  heat  fatigue.  He  jumped  a  stone  wall  as  soon  as  he  heard  the  siren.  Later,  the  Rowlands  boasted  in  the  store  of  their  quick  cure  for  Mr.  " b"Deal.  His  worst  times  are  when  he's  certain  something  more  serious  is  about  to  happen  to  him.  Aileen  has  said  she's  grateful  her  next  will  be  a  girl.  She  wouldn't  want  another  boy  imitating  his  father's  trou-  bles,  another  body  full  of  disease.  In-  side  his  ringing  head  Leon  is  so  secre-  tive,  and  Aileen  doesn't  trust  the  time  he  spends  alone.  Once,  standing  in  Granger's  barn,  she  heard  a  thumping  above  her  in  the  mow.  Supposing  it  was  her  five-year-old,  she  climbed  the  ladder  to  catch  him  in  some  mischief  andsaw  he  was  only  rocking  back  and  forth,  repeating  &quot;wasps'  nests&quot;  to  him-  self.  Aileen  was  ashamed  of  herself  and  sad  for  her  son.  But  Leon  was  gig-  gling.  He'd  discovered  if  you  repeated  something  enough  times,  and  quick-  ly,  you  could  lose  track  of  what  it  meant.  It  could  become  a  noise,  just  nonsense.  OMETIMES  when  Leon  is  sick  in  bed  his  father  lets  him  look  at  the  pictures  of  the  bad  men.  When  Avery  was  himself  a  boy,  his  cousin  Thurman  Deal's  picture  was  in  the  post  office.  There  was  a  whole  year  when  they  hadn't  caught  Thurman,  and  Avery  would  walk  to  town  to  see  his  cousin's  face  hanging  with  the  other  faces.  He  began  to  steal  the  handbills,  kept  them  in  a  notebook  and  carried  them  to  school,  where  they  could  be  admired  and  traded.  Avery  still  has  them.  With  Thurman's  face  and  fin-  gers  among  them,  the  handbills  area  family  secret.  Avery  has  read  the  descriptions  to  Leon  until  the  boy  knows  by  heart  three  dozen  ancient  criminals,  their  scars  and  tattoos-men  who  stole  enough  to  take  interstate  flights.  Leon  supposes  the  men  were  frequently  on  airplanes.  The  handbills  become  a  teaching  aid.  As  Avery's  finger  slides  over  robbery,  mail  fraud,  abduction,  embezzlement,  Leon  follows  the  sound  and  imagines  the  crime.  Prompted  by  faces,  his  lips  move  with  his  father's.  &quot;Do  Otto  and  Frances,&quot;  Leon  will  say,  and  Avery  shuffles  through  the  old  F.B.I.  sheets  to  the  thin  couple  who  travelled  with  a  son  they  called  Mouse  Face  or  Foco.  &quot;They  should  be  considered  armed  and  dangerous,&quot;  Leon  says.  But  tonight  he  sits  silent  and  does  not  betray  his  knowledge  of  the  mark  on  Thurman  Deal's  thigh  and  his  four  extra  names.  Thurman's  crime  was  robbing  gas  stations  with  a  gun,  followed  by  an  ordinary  interstate  flight.  &quot;That's  enough,&quot;  says  Avery,  who  thinks  the  fever  sore  on  his  lip  could  be  developing  into  something  more  seri-  ous.  Besides,  he  is  considering  the  pic-  ture  of  his  cousin.  Thurman  Deal  finished  his  time  fifteen  years  ago  and  has  worked  on  farms  in  northern  [REDACTED]  ever  since.  He  likes  to  follow  Avery's  family  from  one  area  to  another-likes  to  be  close  to  kin,  he  tells  them.  But  in  the  store  he  does  imitations  of  Avery  and  denies  he's  related.  &quot;Like  this,&quot;  he  says,  fore-  fingers  to  temples,  balancing  a  disease  in  his  head.  Thurman,  without  a  regular  wom-  an,  uses  Avery's  family  for  his  own,  pinching  Aileen  in  her  kitchen,  and  tell-  ing  the  children  how  to  behave.  They  don't  like  to  see  him  coming.  He'll  turn  the  hose  on  Leon  and  the  girls  for  fun  and  bully  a  dollar  from  their  father.  Avery,  dizzy  with  the  aspirin  he's  taken  against  joint  fever,  will  stop  Thurman  in  the  yard  and  give  up  small  change  while  the  children  disappear  into  the  house  and  Thurman  watches  the  un-  protected  doorway.  ONE  afternoon,  the  hippie  girl,  Na-  dine,  comes  around  to  tell  Aileen  she  has  an  exceptional  child.  &quot;Leon's  beautiful,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;He's  learning  to  read.&quot;  The  boy's  shown  a  change  since  he  got  the  glasses,  Aileen  admits,  but  she  thinks  he  may  be  mental.  He's  in  the  back  room  amusing  himself  with  the  " b"sound  of  names-Travis,  Walter,  Stanley,  Greg.  &quot;No  kin  to  me,&quot;  he  says.  One  of  his  sisters  has  told  him  not  to  say  those  names.  While  Nadine's  there,  Leon  comes  in  for  the  family's  library,  Volume  B  of  the  World  Book,  and  carries  it  upstairs  with  his  glasses.  &quot;He  can't  read  it,&quot;  Aileen  apolo-  gizes.  &quot;It's  got  little  pictures.&quot;  &quot;He's  really  beautiful,&quot;  Nadine  as-  sures  her.  When  he  came  home  from  the  doc-  tor,  Leon  gloated  around  his  family,  &quot;I  didn't  have  to  take  medicine.  'The  medicine's  right  in  the  glass.&quot;  'The  headaches  have  gone  away.  Avery  likes  that  notion:  having  your  face  next  to  the  cure  the  whole  time  and  not  hav-  ing  to  swallow  it.  At  first  Aileen  argued  they  didn't  have  the  money-  the  welfare  wouldn't  pay  this  time-  but  Avery  said  he  had  to  have  a  pair.  With  Mr.  Granger's  signature,  the  bank  promised  him  fifty  dollars  for  spectacles.  Nadine  has  taken  the  Deals  on  as  a  project.  She's  told  Mrs.  Presnell  they  have  Elizabethan  speech  patterns.  It  doesn't  matter  that  theyused  her  pamphlet,  &quot;Protein  Without  Slaugh-ter,&quot;  to  start  a  fire.  She  says  Leon  could  skip  first  grade.  She's  given  him  a  ruled  copybook,  and  Leon  has  told  her  three  sentences  to  put  in  it  for  him  to  practice:  Thurman  Deal  had  four  names.  You  can  know  him  by  the  diamond  on  his  leg.  He's  not  dangerous.  HEN  Mr.  Granger  notices  Ai-  leen  is  showing,  he  says  she  can  have  the  house  another  year  if  Avery  will  promise  to  work  regularly.  Gran-  ger  wants  a  third  cutting  of  alfalfa  this  summer,  and  Avery  has  vowed  to  stay  in  the  fields.  The  evening  he  com-  plains  of  short  breath,  Thurman  cadges  a  ride  for  him  at  the  corner  while  Avery  rolls  in  the  grass.  Later,  while  Avery  nurses  himself  in  front  of  Drug  Fair's  window,  Thurman,  still  in  Worton,  has  returned  down  the  road  to  his  cousin's  house.  &quot;He's  not  here,&quot;  Aileen  says  from  the  doorway.  &quot;Where  you  going?&quot;  Thurman  calls  to  the  scattering  children.  &quot;I  ain't  going  to  spray  you.&quot;  Leon  and  his  sisters  circle  back  slow-  ly.  &quot;Go  ahead.  Jump  your  rope,&quot;  Thur-  man  says.  &quot;I  was  just  watching.&quot;  Leon  has  been  told  not  to  say  his  new  words,  so  now  the  rope  turns  again  while  &quot;Mary's  sailor  goes  to  sea&quot;  under  the  Deals'  sycamore  and  Thur-  man  waits  to  ask  where  their  mother  keeps  the  rest  of  the  dollars  from  the  money  tree.  &quot;You  couldn't  get  it  anyway,&quot;  Leon  says,  &quot;because  the  box  is  locked  and  it's  too  high  to  reach.&quot;  The  girls  are  dou-  ble-skipping,  ducking  in  and  out  of  their  spinning  cage.  The  play  speeds  up  as  their  mother  argues  with  Thurman  in-  side.  And  Leon  begins  to  say  the  for-  bidden  names,  fast,  and  faster,  until  they  become  sounds  responsible  for  themselves:  Walter  Travis  Stanley  Greg  Had  a  tattoo  on  his  leg.  They're  telling  him  to  stop,  but  he  yells  louder  as  Thurman  comes  out  the  door,  Aileen  following.  She  says  give  it  back  or  she's  going  to  law,  and  Leon  shouts  his  rhyme  in  the  robber's  face.  When  they  find  the  broken  box  in  the  road,  Aileen  cries  because  it  was  her  grandmother's.  Avery  comes  home  and  says  he  never  owed  Thurman  that  " b"much  for  aspirin.  Next  morning,  they  walk,  in  family,  into  the  village  to  tell  people  what  happened  and  getthe  mon-  ey  back.  Thurman  is  there  on  the  store  porch.  &quot;I  never  owed  you  that  much,&quot;  Avery  says.  Thurman  asks  where  the  boy  learned  his  words.  &quot;I  never  owed  him  that  much,&quot;  Avery  insists  to  Mrs.  Presnell  and  to  Holly  Kearns  and  Mr.  Rowland.  He  says  he's  calling  the  police,  but  Thur-  man  occupies  the  phone  booth  and  won't  give  it  up.  THURMAN  Dear  is  gone.  He's  left  his  room  in  Worton  and  taken  the  money  and  two  rifles  from  the  wall  in  Mr.  Rowland's  den  and  the  tape  deck  from  the  hippies'  van.  Mrs.  Pres-  nell  says  the  police  are  looking  for  him.  He  was  seen  in  Winchester,  where  he  pawned  the  guns  and  the  tape  machine.  Leon  doubts  they'll  find  him  in  Vir-  ginia.  He  supposes  his  cousin's  gone  to  another  state  on  an  airplane.  &quot;He'll  come  back,&quot;  Aileen  warns.  &quot;He'll  shoot  someone.&quot;  Avery  says  he  doesn't  care.  He  tacks  Thurman's  handbill  to  the  utility  pole  next  to  the  store.  Before  rain  and  wind  destroy  the  poster,  the  village  has  its  fugitive  in  clearest  focus.  &quot;I  never  knew  he'd  had  two  wives,&quot;  Holly  Kearns  says.  Reah  Harrell  thinks  she  could  have  done  without  knowing  where  the  birthmark  was.  And  who  needs  fingerprints,  she  says,  when  they  all  know  his  face  like  the  back  of  their  own  hand.  Since  Thurman  is  at  large,  Leon  stays  close  to  his  father.  He  watches  from  the  ladder  while  Avery  patches  the  roof  with  tar  and  nails  tin  under  the  eaves  where  grackles  and  starlings  have  been  fighting  over  entrance  to  the  attic.  Aileen  says  Avery  ought  to  do  something  about  the  holes  where  people  come  in:  she  wants  locks  on  the  doors  and  windows.  &quot;And  don't  think  you  don't  look  silly  in  those,&quot;  she  says.  The  doctor  has  told  Avery  his  glasses  are  only  for  reading,  but  sometimes  he  wears  them  at  work.  They're  just  like  Leon's,  with  clear  rims  that  reflect  a  pink  light.  Leon,  blocking  his  father's  way  on  the  ladder,  says,  &quot;You  can't  come  down  until  you  say  it.  Like  this  ...  thurman-  dealthurmandeal.&quot;  He  makes  Avery  repeat  it  with  him  very  fast  until  the  robber's  face  disappears  completely,  until  their  cousin  becomes  a  noise.  If  Thurman  comes  back,  Avery  knows  what  to  do.  He'll  look  at  him  right  through  the  glass  and  tell  him,  &quot;No  more  aspirin,  no  more  spots.  I  see  you  clear  for  a  thief.&quot;  N  her  last  month,  Aileen  tells  the  women  she's  been  sick  with  know-  ingher  husband's  so  far  in  debt.  But  Avery  just  says  a  girl  baby's  bound  to  be  sitting  heavy  on  her  stomach.  &quot;For  a  man  without  transportation  like  that  to  borrow  on  reading  glasses  when  he's  got  nothing  to  read,&quot;  Holly  Kearns  says  to  Aileen.  &quot;Is  the  boy  still  talking  to  himself?&quot;  She  knows  how  to  get  Aileen  worked  up.  It's  good  for  her  to  cry,  Holly  tells  her.  The  baby  is  two  weeks  late  and  Thurman  Deal  has  been  seen  again  in  Winchester.  Aileen  says  she  can't  carry  any  longer.  They  have  to  force  the  labor  on  her,  Avery  explains  to  Leon,  and  if  they  do  that  it  would  have  to  be  a  girl.  After  the  daughter  is  born,  Mr.  Granger  stops  by  to  congratulate  the  family,  but  Avery  and  the  boy  have  gone  reading  in  Clayton  again.  They're  looking  at  labels  on  the  clothes  in  Drug  Fair  and  old  news-  papers  in  the  laundromat  and  directions  on  the  washing  machines.  Moving  under  the  arcade,  they  wave  behind  their  lenses  at  people  they  know  and  at  some  they  don't.  Avery  hasn't  missed  work  in  three  weeks.  When  his  note  is  paid,  Mr.  Clarke  at  the  bank  is  going  to  let  him  borrow  on  a  pair  with  turtle  rims  and  shade  glass.  Leon  has  found  something  he  likes  the  sound  of.  Re-  peating  it  to  himself,  he  has  to  stop  or  bust  out  laughing. "