 b"In  February,  1948,  Communist  leader  Klement  Gottwald  stepped  out  on  the  balcony  of  a  Baroque  palace  in  [REDACTED]  to  address  a  throng  of  hundreds  of  thousands  overflowing  Old  Town  Square.  It  was  a  crucial  moment  in  Czech  history-a  fateful  moment  such  as  occurs  but  once  or  twice  in  a  millennium.  Gottwald  was  flanked  by  his  com-  rades,  with  Clementis  standing  at  his  side.  Snowflakes  fluttered  in  the  cold  air,  and  Gottwald  was  bareheaded.  The  solicitous  Clementis  took  off  his  own  fur-trimmed  cap  and  set  it  on  Gottwald's  head.  The  photograph  of  Gottwald  speak-  ing  to  the  nation  from  the  balcony,  wearing  a  fur  cap  and  flanked  by  his  comrades,  was  reproduced  thousands  of  times  by  the  state  propaganda  ap-  paratus.  The  history  of  Communist  [REDACTED]  was  born  on  that  bal-  cony.  Soon,  every  child  in  the  land  was  familiar  with  the  historic  photo,  from  schoolbooks,  posters,  exhibits.  Four  years  later,  Clementis  was  charged  with  treason  and  hanged.  The  propaganda  department  at  once  scratched  him  out  of  history,  and  of  course  erased  him  from  all  photographs.  Ever  since,  Gottwald  has  been  standing  on  the  balcony  alone.  Where  Clementis  once  stood,  there  is  only  bare  palace  wall.  All  that  remains  of  him  is  the  cap  on  Gottwald's  head.  IN  February,  1948,  Communist  HE  year  is  1971,  and  Mirek  is  say-  ing:  The  struggle  of  man  against  might  is  the  struggle  of  mem-  ory  against  oblivion.  This  is  how  he  wishes  to  justify  what  his  friends  call  impru-  dence.  He  has  been  meticulously  keeping  his  diary  up  to  date,  he  files  away  correspon-  dence,  makes  notes  of  meetings  where  the  current  situation  is  dis-  cussed  and  the  next  course  of  action  chart-  ed.  He  keeps  explain-  ing:  What  we're  doing  does  not  violate  the  constitution  in  any  way.  To  pull  back,  to  as-  sume  guilt-that  would  be  a  sure  way  to  defeat.  About  a  week  ago,  while  working  with  his  crew  on  the  roof  of  a  new  building,  he  looked  down  and  was  seized  by  dizziness.  He  lost  his  balance  and  clutched  at  a  poorly  secured  beam,  which  toppled  and  pinned  him  down.  At  first  his  injury  seemed  frightening,  but  as  soon  as  he  learned  that  it  was  only  a  banal  fracture  of  the  arm,  he  realized  with  satisfaction  that  a  few  weeks  of  vacation  were  in  the  offing-  at  last  some  badly  needed  time  to  put  his  affairs  in  order.  He  saw  that  his  more  cautious  friends  were  right  after  all.  The  con-  stitution  did  guarantee  freedom  of  ex-  pression,  but  the  law  punished  any  act  that  could  be  interpreted  as  subver-  sive.  One  never  knewwhen  the  state  might  start  shouting  that  it  was  be-  ing  subverted  by  this  or  that  expres-  sion.  He  therefore  decided  to  transfer  his  incriminating  papers  to  a  safe  place.  First,  however,  he  wanted  to  settle  the  matter  of  Zdena.  He  kept  calling  her  long  distance  but  could  not  reach  her.  He  wasted  four  days  this  way.  It  was  only  yesterday  that  he  finally  man-  aged  to  talk  to  her.  She  promised  to  wait  for  him  this  afternoon.  Mirek's  seventeen-year-old  son  pro-  tested  that  his  father  could  hardly  ex-  pect  to  drive  withone  arm  in  a  cast.  And  indeed,  the  trip  is  turning  out  to  be  a  trying  one.  The  injured  arm,  loosely  strapped  in  front  of  Mirek's  chest,  is  dangling  uselessly,  and  he  has  to  let  go  of  the  steering  wheel  when-  ever  he  changes  gears.  MORE  than  twenty  years  had  passed  since  his  affair  with  Zdena,  and  only  a  few  memories  re-  mained.  He  recalled  one  meeting  when  she  had  shown  up  in  tears-snuffling,  dabbing  at  her  eyes  with  a  handker-  chief.  He  had  asked  what  was  the  matter.  She  explained  that  some  Rus-  sian  statesman  had  died  the  night  be-  fore.  Some  Zhdanov  or  Arbuzov  or  Masturbov.  Judging  by  the  volume  of  tears,  Masturbov's  passing  had  upset  her  more  than  the  death  of  her  own  father.  Was  it  possible  that  this  had  really  happened?  Perhaps  the  scene  of  lament  over  Masturbov  was  but  an  invention  of  his  present  hatred?  No,  it  had  real-  ly  happened,  that  was  clear.  But  of  course  he  could  no  longer  precise-  ly  recall  the  immediate  circumstances  that  had  made  her  tears  believ-  able  and  real,  and  thus  his  memory  of  the  event  had  become  im-  plausible,  like  a  carica-  ture.  All  his  memories  of  her  were  like  that.  For  instance,  they  had  re-  turned  together  on  a  tram  from  the  apart-  ment  where  they  had  made  love  for  the  first  time.  (Mirek  assures  himself  with  special  sat-  isfaction  that  he  has  completely  forgotten  all  their  copulations  and  would  be  unable  to  re-  call  a  single  second  of  past  intimacy.)  She  had  been  sitting  on  a  seat  in  the  corner  of  the  rat-  tling  tram,  her  expres-  sion  sombre,  closed,  her  face  remarkably  old.  When  he  had  asked  why  she  was  so  with-  drawn,  he  learned  that  she  was  dissatisfied  with  " b"their  lovemaking.  She  said  that  he  had  made  love  to  her  like  an  intellectual.  In  the  political  cant  of  the  time  the  term  &quot;intellectual&quot;  was  an  insult.  It  denoted  a  person  confused  about  life  and  cut  off  from  the  people.  The  epi-  thet  was  bestowed  on  all  Communists  hanged  by  fellow-Communists  during  this  era.  In  contrast  to  citizens  whose  feet  were  firmly  planted  on  the  ground,  intellectuals  supposedly  floated  in  thin  air.  It  was  thus  a  fitting  punishment  to  take  the  ground  away  from  them  once  and  for  all,  and  to  leave  them  dangling.  But  what  did  Zdena  have  in  mind  when  she  accused  him  of  making  love  like  an  intellectual?  In  some  way  or  other  she  was  dis-  satisfied  with  him,  and  just  as  she  was  capable  of  filling  an  abstraction  (her  relation  to  a  stranger,  like  Masturbov)  with  the  most  concrete  emotions  (in-  carnated  in  tears),  so  she  was  also  able  to  give  the  most  tangible  of  acts  an  abstract  significance  and  to  name  her  personal  discontent  by  a  political  term.  HE  glanced  in  the  rearview  mirror  and  realized  that  a  certain  sedan  had  been  following  him  all  along.  He  had  never  doubted  that  he  was  under  surveillance,  but  so  far  they  had  al-  ways  acted  with  masterly  discreetness.  Now  a  basic  change  had  taken  place:  they  wanted  him  to  know  of  their  presence.  In  open  country  some  twenty  ki-  lometres  from  [REDACTED]  there  was  a  high  fence  and  behind  it  an  auto  service  sta-  tion  and  repair  shop.  A  good  friend  of  his  worked  there,  and  he  wanted  him  to  replace  a  faulty  starter.  He  pulled  up  in  front  of  the  entrance,  barred  by  a  red-and-white  striped  gate.  A  dumpy  woman  was  standing  at  the  side  of  the  gate.  Mirek  waited  for  her  to  raise  it,  but  she  only  stared  at  him  without  moving.  He  honked  the  horn  in  vain.  He  rolled  down  the  window.  The  woman  said,  &quot;Haven't  they  locked  you  up  yet?&quot;  'No,  they  haven't  locked  me  up  [REDACTED];  answered  Mirek.  &quot;Would  you  mind  lifting  the  gate?&quot;  She  gazed  at  him  impassively  for  a  few  long  seconds,  yawned,  and  ambled  to  the  gatehouse,  where  she  plumped  herself  down  on  a  chair.  She  paid  no  further  heed  to  Mirek.  He  stepped  out  of  the  car  and  walked  around  the  gate  to  the  work-  shop  to  look  for  his  friend.  He  found  the  mechanic,  who  accompanied  him  back  to  the  gate  (the  old  woman  was  still  sitting  impassively  inside  the  gate-  house)  and  raised  it.  Mirek  drove  his  car  into  the  yard.  &quot;Serves  you  right  for  showing  your-  self  off  on  television,&quot;  said  the  me-  chanic.  &quot;Now  every  old  biddy  in  the  land  knows  your  face.&quot;  &quot;Who  is  she,  anyway?&quot;  Mirek  asked.  He  learned  that  the  invasion  by  the  527573736961n  armies,  which  occupied  Bo-  hemia  and  exerted  their  power  throughout  the  country,  had  awakened  this  person  to  a  peculiar  way  of  life.  She  saw  that  the  slightest  allegation  wasenough  to  take  authority,  position,  employment,  even  daily  bread  from  people  higher  up  than  she  (and  the  whole  world  was  higher  up  than  she).  This  excited  her:  she  began  to  de-  nounce  people  herself.  &quot;But  how  come  she  is  still  just  a  gatekeeper?  Didn't  they  promote  her?&quot;  The  mechanic  smiled.  &quot;She  can  hardly  count  to  ten.  They  can't  pro-  mote  her.  They  can  only  keep  on  ap-  proving  her  right  to  denounce.  That's  her  way  of  being  promoted.&quot;  He  lifted  the  hood  and  examined  the  engine.  Mirek  suddenly  became  aware  that  someone  was  standing  behind  him.  He  turned  around:  it  was  a  man  in  a  gray  jacket,  white  shirt  and  tie,  brown  slacks.  His  thick  neck  and  puffy  face  were  topped  by  a  head  of  wavy,  styled  gray  hair.  The  man  was  watching  the  mechanic  bent  under  the  raised  hood.  After  a  few  moments  the  mechanic,  too,  became  aware  of  himand  straight-  " b"ened  up.  &quot;Looking  for  someone?&quot;  The  man  with  the  thick  neck  and  stylish  hair  answered,  &quot;No.  I'm  not  looking  for  anybody.&quot;  The  mechanic  once  more  leaned  over  the  engine  and  said,  &quot;In  [REDACTED]  there's  a  man  standing  in  the  middle  of  Wenceslaus  Square,  throwing  up.  A  passerby  stops,  watches  him  sadly,  and  shakes  his  head  :  'If  you  only  knew  how  well  I  understand  you  ...  &quot;  HE  bloody  massacre  in  Bangla-  desh  quickly  erased  the  memory  of  the  527573736961n  invasion  of  Czechoslo-  vakia,  the  assassination  of  Allende  drowned  out  the  groans  of  Bangladesh,  the  war  in  the  Sinai  made  people  for-  get  Allende,  the  Cambodian  bloodbath  washed  away  the  memory  of  Sinai,  and  so  on  and  on  and  on,  until  everything  is  forgotten  by  everyone.  In  past  eras,  when  history  still  moved  slowly,  the  few  historical  events  that  took  place  were  easily  remembered  and  formed  a  familiar  beckground,  against  which  stirring  scenes  of  per-  sonal  human  adventure  were  acted  out.  Nowadays,  history  rushes  by.  A  politi-  cal  event  is  news  one  day,  forgotten  thenext,  only  to  reappear  one  morning  sparkling  with  the  dew  of  novelty.  For  the  storyteller,  history  is  no  longer  a  backdrop  but  a  pageant  of  startling  ed-  venture,  played  out  against  the  com-  mon,  familiar  banality  of  private  lives.  One  can  no  longer  assume  that  an  event  is  widely  familiar  just  because  it  happened  within  recent  memory.  I  must  therefore  approach  some  recent  occurrences  as  if  they  were  a  thousand  years  old.  In  1939,  German  armies  marched  into  Bohemia,  and  the  Czech  state  ceased  to  exist.  In  1945,  527573736961n  armies  marched  into  Bohemia,  and  the  country  once  again  proclaimed  itself  an  independent  republic.  The  Czech  people  were  enthusiastic  about  [REDACTED],  which  had  driven  the  Germans  from  their  land,  and  this  wave  of  sympathy  carried  over  to  the  Czech  Communist  Party  as  well.  Thus  it  happened  that  in  February,  1948,  the  Communists  were  able  to  take  power  not  through  bloodshed  and  violence  but  amid  the  cheers  of  approximately  half  the  pop-  ulation.  And  please  note:  the  half  that  cheered  was  the  more  dynamic,  intel-  ligent,  better.  Yes,  say  what  you  like,  the  Com-  munists  were  more  intelligent.  They  had  a  grandiose  program-a  plan  for  a  new  world,  in  which  everyone  would  find  a  place.  Those  who  opposed  them  had  no  great  dream  butonlya  few  moral  principles,  worn  and  tiresome,  with  which  they  hoped  to  patch  up  the  tattered  breeches  of  the  established  or-  der.  No  wonder  that  the  enthusiastic,  lofty  ones  easily  conquered  the  compro-  mising,  cautious  ones,  and  readily  set  about  to  put  into  effect  their  dream,  their  idyll  of  justice  for  all.  I  emphasize:  idyll  and  for  all.  Since  the  earliest  beginnings,  all  human  be-  ings  have  longed  for  such  an  idyll,  a  garden  where  nightingales  sing,  a  realm  where  nature  does  not  rise  up  as  an  alien  force  against  man,  nor  man  against  his  fellows,  but  where  on  the  contrary  the  world  and  all  its  creatures  are  molded  from  a  common  essence,  and  the  fire  that  lights  up  the  heavens  is  the  same  that  burns  within  the  hu-  man  soul;  an  idyll  where  every  human  being  is  a  note  in  a  grand  Bach  fugue  and  anyone  who  disdains  his  part  shrivels  into  a  black  dot,  useless  and  meaningless,  fit  only  to  be  picked  up  and  squashed  between  the  fingernails  like  a  flea.  From  the  very  beginning,  however,  some  people  realized  that  they  lacked  the  proper  temperament  for  the  idyll,  and  they  wished  toleave.  But  itis  in  the  nature  of  an  idyll  that  it  embraces  everyone,  and  those  who  wished  to  emigrate  revealed  themselves  as  deniers  of  the  idyll.  Instead  of  going  abroad,  they  went  behind  bars.  Soon  they  were  joined  by  thousands  and  tensof  thou-  sands  more,  and  in  the  end  even  by  many  Communists,  such  as  Foreign  Minister  Clementis,  the  man  who  had  lent  his  cap  to  Gottwald.  On  movie  screens  across  the  land  timid  lovers  were  holding  hands,  citizens'  courts  of  honor  began  meting  out  harsh  pun-  ishments  for  marital  infidelity,  nightin-  gales  sang,  and  the  body  of  Clementis  swung  to  and  fro  like  a  bell  ringing  in  a  new  dawn  for  mankind.  Then  those  young,  intelligent,  radi-  cal  people  suddenly  had  the  strange  sense  of  having  sent  into  the  world  a  deed  that  began  to  live  its  own  in-  dependent  life,  refusing  to  bear  any  resemblance  to  their  intention  and  car-  ing  nothing  about  them  who  had  given  it  birth.  Those  young,  intelligent  people  began  to  shout  after  their  deed,  to  call  it  back,  chastise,  exhort,  pursue  it.  If  I  were  to  write  a  novelabout  the  genera-  tion  of  those  gifted,  radical  people,  I'd  call  it  &quot;In  Pursuit  of  a  Lost  Deed.&quot;  HE  mechanic  closed  the  hood,  and  Mirek  asked  how  much  he  owed.  &quot;Not  a  damn  thing,&quot;  said.  Mirek  sat  down  behind  the  wheel,  quite  moved.  He  didn't  feel  like  con-  tinuing  his  trip.  He  would  rather  have  " b"stayed  with  his  friend  and  swapped  stories.  'The  mechanic  leaned  into  the  car  and  slapped  him  on  the  shoulder.  Then  he  walked  over  to  the  gate  and  raised  it.  As  Mirek  drove  by,  the  mechanic,  with  a  movement  of  the  head,  called  Mirek's  attention  to  the  car  parked  in  front  of  the  repair-shop  entrance.  The  man  with  the  thick  neck  and  stylish  hair  stood  leaning  against  the  car  door.  He  was  watching  Mirek.  So  was  the  fellow  sitting  behind  the  wheel.  Both  of  them  were  staring  at  him  brazenly,  impudently,  and  Mirek  tried  to  stare  back  at  them  with  the  same  expression.  In  his  mirror  he  saw  the  man  get  into  the  car  and  then  the  car  make  a  U-turn  and  follow  him.  It  occurred  to  Mirek  that  he  prob-  ably  should  have  disposed  of  the  com-  promising  papers  before.  If  he  had  done  so  the  very  first  day  he  was  injured,  without  waiting  to  reach  Zdena  on  the  phone,  he  might  have  succeeded  in  hid-  ing  them  safely.  But  he  had  been  un-  able  to  think  of  anything  but  his  trip  to  see  Zdena.  Actually,  he  had  been  thinking  about  it  for  several  years.  But  in  recent  weeks  he  had  the  feeling  that  time  was  running  out,  that  his  destiny  was  rushing  toward  its  conclusion  and  it  was  up  to  him  to  make  it  perfect  and  beautiful.  IN  those  faraway  days  when  he  had  broken  with  Zdena  (their  affair  had  lasted  nearly  three  years),  he  had  felt  an  exhilarating  surge  of  freedom,  and  his  life  suddenly  began  to  thrive. He  soon  married  a  woman  whose  looks  did  wonders  for  his  self-esteem.  Then  his  lovely  mate  died,  and  he  re-  mained  alone  with  his  son  in  the  kind  of  poignant  solitude  that  arouses  the  admiration,  interest,  and  solicitude  of  women.  He  also  had  achieved  remarkable  success  in  his  scientific  career,  and  this  success  shielded  him.  The  state  needed  him,  and  so  he  could  afford  to  be  sar-  castic  about  politics  at  a  time  when  hardly  anyone  had  yet  dared  to  step  out  of  line.  Gradually,  as  the  Pursuers  of  the  Deed  were  gaining  more  and  more  influence,  he,  too,  appeared  more  and  more  frequently  on  the  television  screen  and  became  a  well-known  personal-  ity.  After  the  arrival  of  the  527573736961ns  he  refused  to  retract  his  opinions,  and  was  driven  from  his  job  and  harried  by  un-  dercover  agents.  This  failed  to  daunt  him.  He  was  in  love  with  his  fate  and  found  his  march  to  ruin  noble  and  beautiful.  Please  understand  me:  I  have  said  that  he  was  in  love  with  his  fate,  not  with  himself.  Those  are  two  very  dif-  ferent  things.  It  was  as  if  his  life  had  become  independent  and  had  started  to  pursue  its  own  interests,  which  were  not  at  all  identical  with  those  of  Mirek.  This  is  what  I  meant  by  life  changing  into  fate.  Fate  had  no  intention  of  lift,  ing  afinger  for  Mirek  (for  his  hap-  piness,  safety,  good  spirits,  or  health),  yet  Mirek  was  ready  to  do  everything  for  his  fate  (its  grandeur,  clarity,  beau-  ty,  style,  and  significance).  He  felt  re-  sponsible  for  his  fate,  but  his  fate  felt  no  responsibility  for  him.  His  relationship  toward  his  life  was  like  that  of  a  sculptor  toward  his  statue  or  anovelist  toward  his  novel.  It  is  one  of  the  inalienable  rights  of  a  novelist  to  rework  his  novel  at  will.  If  he  doesn't  like  the  beginning,  he  can  rewrite  it  or  cross  it  out.  But  Zdena's  existence  de-  prived  Mirek  of  this  author's  preroga-  tive.  Zdena  insisted  on  remaining  in  the  opening  pages  of  the  novel,  and  would  not  let  herself  be  crossed  out.  UST  why  was  he  so  ashamed  of  her,  anyway?  One  obvious  explanation  comes  to  mind:  Mirek  very  early  joined  the  side  of  those  who  set  out  to  pursue  their  own  deed,  while  Zdena  remained  loy-  al  to  the  garden  of  the  nightingales.  She  even  joined  the  two  per  cent  of  the  populace  that  welcomed  527573736961n  tanks.  Yes,  this  is  true,  but  I  don't  believe  this  explanation  is  convincing.  If  poli-  tics  had  been  the  source  of  the  problem,  he  would  have  simply  told  her  off,  openly  and  publicly;  he  would  have  felt  no  need  to  deny  that  he  knew  her.  No,  Zdena  had  offended  him  by  some-  thing  far  worse-her  ugliness.  But  he  had  stopped  sleeping  with  her  more  than  twenty  years  ago,  so  what  did  her  looks  matter  now?  They  did  matter:  even  from  afar,  Zdena's  big  nose  cast  a  shadow  over  his  life.  Some  years  ago  he  had  been  go-  ing  with  an  exceptionally  attractive  woman.  One  day  she  had  occasion  to  visit  Zdena's  home  town,  and  re-  turned  vexed:  &quot;For  heaven's  sake,  how  " b"could  you  have  picked  such  an  awful-  looking  type?&quot;  He  explained  that  he  knew  her  only  casually  and  that  noth-  ing  intimate  had  ever  passed  between  them.  After  all,  he  was  not  unaware  of  one  of  life's  great  secrets:  women  do  not  seek  out  a  handsome  man;  they  seek  out  a  man  who  has  had  beautiful  wom-  en.  It  is  therefore  a  fateful  error  to  be  involved  with  an  ugly  mistress.  Mirek  tried  to  erase  all  traces  of  Zdena,  and  as  the  followers  of  the  nightingales  came  to  hate  him  more  and  more  with  each  passing  day,  he  hoped  that  Zdena,  avidly  pursuing  the  career  of  a  Party  functionary,  would  gladly  forget  all  about  him.  But  he  was  wrong.  She  spoke  of  him  always,  everywhere,  at  every  oppor-  tunity.  When  through  unfortunate  co-  incidence  they  would  meet  at  a  social  gathering,  she  was  sure  to  allude  to  some  reminiscence  that  would  make  it  obvious  they  had  once  been  on  intimate  terms.  He  was  furious.  &quot;If  you  dislike  her  so  much,  then  tell  me,  why  did  you  ever  start  up  with  her?&quot;  he  was  once  asked  by  a  mutual  friend.  Mirek  started  to  explain  that  at  the  time  he  was  just  a  dumb  twenty-year-  old  and  she  was  seven  years  older.  She  was  respected,  admired,  all-powerful!  She  knew  just  about  everybody  on  the  Central  Committee!  She  helped  him,     pushed  him,  introduced  him  to  influ-  ential  people!  &quot;I  was  a  climber,  don't  you  see,  you  jerk?&quot;  he  shouted.  &quot;You  understand?  An  aggressive  young  careerist!  That's  why  I  hung  on  to  her,  and  I  didn't  give  a  hoot  about  her  looks!&quot;  MIREK  is  not  telling  the  truth.  Though  Zdena  cried  over  Mas-  turbov's  death,  twenty-five  years  ago  she  had  no  influential  friends  and  was  in  no  position  to  promote  her  own  ca-  reer  or  anyone  else's.  Why,  then,  is  he  making  up  stories?  Why  is  he  lying?  He  is  holding  the  steering  wheel  with  one  hand,  he  sees  the  secret-police  car  in  the  rearview  mirror,  and  sud-  denly  he  blushes.  An  utterly  unexpect-  ed  memory  has  just  surfaced.  After  the  first  time  they  slept  to-  gether,  when  she  accused  him  of  intel-  lectual-like  behavior,  he  wanted  to  rec-  tify  her  impression  of  him,  and  so  the  very  next  day  he  tried  to  make  love  with  unbridled,  passionate  abandon.  No,  it  is  not  true  that  he  has  forgotten  all  their  copulations!  This  one  he  sees  quite  clear-  ly  before  him:  he  was  undulating  on  top  of  her  in  feigned  frenzy,  making  a  sustained  growl  like  a  dog  tugging  at  his  master's  slipper,  and  all  the  while  he  was  watching  (with  some  surprise)  the  woman  stretched  out  under  him,  so  calm,  quiet,  almost  indifferent.  The  car  echoes  with  a  twenty-five-year-old  growl,  the  un-  bearable  sound  of  his  ser-  vility  and  slavish  eager-  ness,  the  sound  of  his  compliance  and  conform-  ity,  his  ridiculousness  and  anguish.  Yes,  that's  the  way  it  is.  Mirek  is  willing  to  la-  bel  himself  a  careerist,  just  so  he  does  not  have  to  admit  the  truth:  he  set-  tled  for  a  homely  wom-  an  because  he  lacked  the  courage  to  approach  any-  one  more  desirable.  He  rated  himself  worthy  of  no  better  than  a  Zdena.  This  faintheartedness,  this  paltriness,  was  the  secret  he  was  trying  to  conceal.  The  car  resounds  with  the  furious  growl  of  passion,  and  the  sound  makeshim  realize  that  Zdena  is  but  a  phantom  he  wishes  to  erase  in  or-  der  to  wipe  out  his  own  detested  youth.  He  has  come  to  a  stop  in  front  of  her  house.  The  car  that  has  been  tail-  ing  him  pulls  up  behind  him.  HISTORICAL  events  usually  imi-  tate  each  other  without  much  in-  genuity,  but  it  seems  to  me  that  in  the  Czech  lands  history  staged  a  truly  novel  experiment.  Instead  of  one  group  of  people  (class,  nation)  rising  up  against  another,  as  the  time-honored  scenario  would  have  it,  here  a  single  generation  of  men  and  women  revolted  against  their  own  youth.  1  They  tried  to  recapture  and  tame  their  own  deed,  and  they  almost  suc-  ceeded.  Throughout  the  nineteen-six-  ties  they  were  gaining  more  and  more  influence,  and  by  the  springof  1968  they  had  virtually  succeeded  in  gaining  full  control.  This  last  period  is  com-  monly  called  the  [REDACTED]  Spring:  the  guardians  of  the  idyll  removed  the  microphones  they  had  planted  in  private  dwellings,  the  frontiers  were  opened,  and  the  notes  began  to  flee  from  the  score  of  the  great  fugue  to  sing  their  own  songs.  The  gaiety  was  unbeliev-  able.  It  was  a  carnival!  [REDACTED],  which  composed  the  great  fugue  for  the  entire  world,  could  not  permit  any  notes  to  scatter.  On  August  21,  1968,  it.  sent  an  army  of  half  a  mil-  lion  men  into  Bohemia.  Shortly  there-  after  about  a  hundred  and  twenty  thou-  sand  Czechs  were  forced  to  leave  their  country,  and  of  those  who  stayed,  about  " b"five  hundred  thousand  had  to  for-  sake  their  occupations  and  take  up  jobs  behind  the  counters  of  provincial  shops,  at  conveyor  belts  in  rural  factories,  behind  the  steering  wheels  of  trucks  in  other  words,  they  were  scattered  to  obscure  places  from  which  their  voices  would  never  again  be  heard.  To  make  sure  that  not  even  the  shadow  of  an  ugly  memory  would  ever  rouse  the  country  from  its  re-  established  idyll,  it  was  necessary  to  erase  those  two  blots,  the  [REDACTED]  Spring  and  the  527573736961n  tanks.  And  soin  to-  day's  [REDACTED]  nobody  dares  mention  the  twenty-first  of  August,  and  the  names  of  people  who  rebelled  against  their  own  youth  have  been  carefully  rubbed  out  of  the  nation's  memory  like  an  error  from  a  school-  boy's  notebook.  Mirek,  too,  was  erased  in  this  man-  ner.  If  at  this  moment  he  appears  to  be  climbing  the  steps  toward  Zdena's  door,  he  is  really  but  a  transparent  shape,  a  ghostly  silhouette  rising  up  the  spiral  stairway.  HE  is  seated  facing  Zdena,  his  arm  resting  in  its  sling.  Zdena's  face  is  averted,  she  avoids  his  eyes,  she  speaks  hurriedly:  &quot;I  don't  know  why  you've  come.  But  I'm  glad  you're  here.  I  talked  with  some  of  the  com-  rades.  It's  absurd  for  you  to  end  your  life  this  way,  as  a  common  laborer.  'The  Party  has  not  closed  its  doors  on  you.  I  know  it.  I  am  sure  of  it.  There  is  still  time.&quot;  He  asks  what  he  should  do.  &quot;You  must  request  a  hearing.  You  your-  self  must  do  it.  The  first  step  is  up  to  you.&quot;  He  sees  what  it  is  all  about.  They  are  __  trying  to  tell  him  that  he  has  still  got  five  minutes'  grace  to  re-  nounce  everything  he  has  said  and  done.  He  knows  that  game.  They  are  willing  to  sell  peo-  ple  a  future  at  the  price  of  their  past.  They  would  make  him  speak  humbly  into  television  microphones  and  ex-  plain  to  the  nation  that  he  was  wrong  in  op-  posing527573736961  and  the  nightingales.  They  would  force  him  to  throw  away  his  real  life  and  to  become  a  shadow,  a  man  with-  out  a  past,  an  actor  without  a  role,  to  turn  even  his  discarded  past  into  a  shadow,  a  role  abandoned  by  its  actor.  Then  they  would  let  him  live,  the  ghost  of  a  ghost.  He  is  watching  Zdena:  why  is  she  speaking  so  hurriedly,  so  nervously?  Why  does  she  avert  her  face,  avoid  his  eyes?  It  is  only  too  clear:  she  has  set  a  trap  for  him.  She  is  acting  on  orders  of  the  Party  or  the  police.  She  has  been  given  the  job  of  persuading  him  to  capitulate.  BUT  Mirek  is  wrong!  Nobody  has  delegated  Zdena  to  negotiate  with  him.  No,  alas,  nobody  with  any  power  would  grant  Mirek  a  hearing  even  if  he  begged  for  it.  It  is  already  too  late.  If  Zdena  nevertheless  urges  him  to  take  some  action  to  save  himself,  if  she  maintains  that  comrades  in  high  places  advise  him  to  do  so,  she  does  it  onlyout  of  a  confused,  bewildered  desire  to  help  him.  If  she  talks  helter-skelter  and  avoids  his  eyes,  it  is  not  because  she  is  holding  a  trap  in  her  hands  but  because  her  hands  are  empty.  Has  Mirek  ever  understood  her?  He  has  always  thought  that  Zdena  was  so  ferociously  loyal  to  the  Party  because  she  was  a  political  fanatic.  But  that  is  not  true.  She  remained loyalto  the  Party  because  of  her  love  for  Mirek.  When  he  left  her,  she  longed  for  just  one  thing-to  prove  that  faithful-  ness  was  the  highest  value  in  life.  She  wanted  to  prove  that  he  had  been  un-  faithful  in  everything,  while  she  had  been  faithful  in  everything.  What  ap-  peared  as  political  fanaticism  was  only  a  pretext,  a  parable,  amanifesto  of  fi-  delity,  a  coded  complaint  of  disappoint-  ed  love.  I  imagine  her,  on  that  fateful  Au-  gust  morning,  as  she  is  awakened  with  a  start  by  the  terrible  roar  of  airplanes.  She  runs  out  into  the  street,  and  people  tell  her  excitedly  that  the  527573736961n  Army  is  occupying  Bohemia.  She  breaks  in-  to  hysterical  laughter!  527573736961n  tanks  are  coming  to  punish  all  the  unfaithful.  She  is  going  to  see  Mirek's  downfall!  At  last  she  will  see  him  on  his  knees!  At  last  she  is  going  to  lean  overhim,  she  who  knows  the  value  of  steadfastness  and  fidelity,  and  she  will  help  him.  Mirek  has  decided  to  put  a  brutal  end  to  a  conversation  that  has  been  taking  the  wrong  turn:  &quot;You  remember  I  once  sent  you  a  bunch  of  letters.  I'd  like  to  have  them  back.&quot;  She  looks  up  in  surprise.  &quot;Letters?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  my  letters.  I  must  have  sent  you  a  hundred  of  them.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  yes,  your  letters,  of  course,&quot; " b"she  says,  and  all  of  a  sudden  she  is  no  longer  averting  her  face  but  looking  him  straight  in  the  eye.  Mirek  has  the  unpleasant  feeling  that  she  can  see  to  the  very  bottom  of  his  soul  and  that  she  knows  quite  precisely  what  he  wants  and  why  he  wants  it.  'Yes,  of  course,  your  letters,&quot;  she  repeats.  &quot;I  just  read  them  over  again  recently.  I  asked  myself  how  you  could  possibly  have  been  capable  of  such  ex-  plosions  of  feeling.&quot;  And  she  repeats  those  words  explo-  sions  of  feeling  a  few  more  times,  not  in  a  hurried  or  confused  way  but  slow-  ly,  deliberately,  as  if  aiming  at  a  target  she  does  not  want  to  miss,  and  she  watches  him  intently  to  learn  from  his  face  whether  she  succeeded  in  hitting  the  mark.  HIS  plaster-covered  arm  dangles  in  front  of  his  chest,  and  his  face  stings  as  if  he  has  been  slapped.  Oh,  yes,  his  letters  must  have  been  terribly  sentimental.  How  could  it  be  otherwise?  After  all,  he  had  to  prove  to  himself  at  all  costs  that  it  was  not  weakness  and  wretchedness  binding  him  to  her,  but  love!  And  only  a  truly  immense  passion  could  have  justified  his  liaison  with  this  ugly  duckling.  \xc2\xab&quot;You  used  to  call  me  your  comrade  in  the  struggle,  remember?&quot;  she  says.  His  flush  deepens.  That  utterly  ri-  diculous  word,  struggle.  What  was  their  struggle?  They  sat  around  at  endless  meetings  until  their  behinds  were  covered  with  blisters,  but  when  they  rose  from  theirseats  to  voice  some  fearlessly  radical  opinion  (the  class  enemy  must  be  fought  even  more  mer-  cilessly,  this  or  that  plan  must  be  for-  mulated  even  more  resolutely),  they  felt  like  the  figures  in  some  heroic  historical  canvas:  he  is  sinking  to  the  ground,  his  bloodstained  arm  still  clutching  his  gun,  and  she,  pistol  in  hand,  strides  forward  into  the  future  he  was  not  destined  to  see.  In  those  days  his  skin  was  spotted  with  a  belated  case  of  postpubertal  acne,  and  in  order  to  conceal  it  he  cov-  ered  his  face  with  the  mask  of  rebel-  lion.  He  used  to  tell  everyone  that  he  had  parted  forever  with  his  father,  a  rich  farmer,  and  that  he  didn't  give  a  damn  for  the  moldy  rural  tradition  of  land  and  property.  He  was  fond  of  describing  the  violent  quarrel  and  his  dramatic  departure  from  home.  There  was  not  ashred  of  truth  in  it.  Today,  when  he  looks  back  at  his  youth,  he  can  see  nothing  but  fables  and  lies.  &quot;In  those  days  you  were  quite  dif-  ferent,&quot;  says  Zdena.  Oh,  if  he  could  only  get  those  let-  ters  back!  He  would  stop  at  the  nearest  dump,  lift  the  packet  of  letters  with  two  fingers  as  if  they  were  smeared  with  excrement,  and  throw  them  into  the  garbage.  &amp;C  HAT  use  are  those  letters  to  you,  anyway?&quot;&quot;  she  asks.  &quot;What  do  you  want  them  for?&quot;  He  cannot  verywell  tell  her  that  he  wants  to  throw  them  into  the  garbage.  He  assumes  a  melancholy  tone  of  voice  and  explains  to  her  that  he  has  now  reached  a  turning  point  in  his  life  and  wants  to  take  a  backward  look.  He  feels  ill  at  ease,  for  he  suspects  that  his  story  sounds  lame,  and  he  is  ashamed.  Yes,  he  is  looking  backward,  because  by  now  he  has  forgotten  what  he  was  like  in  his  youth.  He  knows  that  he  has  run  aground.  That's  why  he  would  like  to  review  his  past  course,  to  see  where  he  has  failed.  That's  why  he  wants  to  study  his  correspondence  with  Zdena,  because  it  contains  the  secret  of  his  youth,  a  clue  to  his  roots.  She  shakes  her  head.  &quot;I'll  never  give  them  back  to  you.&quot;  &quot;But  I  only  want  to  borrow  them,&quot;  he  lies.  She  keeps  shaking  her  head.  He  knows  that  his  letters  are  some-  where  in  this  apartment,  perhaps  just  a  few  steps  away,  and  that  nothing  prevents  her  from  letting  anyone  read  them  at  any  time.  It  seems  unbearable  to  him  that  a  piece  of  his  life  has  re-  mained  in  her  hands,  and  he  feels  like  " b"hitting  her  over  the  head  with  the  heavy  glass  ashtray  on  the  coffee  table  and  carrying  the  letters  off  with  him.  Instead,  he  repeats  his  pleas  about  youth  and  origins  and  the  need  for  looking  backward.  She  lifts  her  eyes,  and  the  firmness  of  her  gaze  silences  him.  &quot;I'll  never  give  them  to  you.  Never.&quot;  N  they  step  out  of  Zdena's  apart-  ment  house  together,  both  cars  are  still  parked  at  thecurb,  one  behind  the  other.  The  two  agents  are  patrol-  ling  the  opposite  sidewalk,.  Now  they  stop  and  look  intently  at  Mirek  and  Zdena.  He  points  them  out  to  her.  &quot;These  two  gentlemen  have  been  on  my  tail  the  whole  trip.&quot;  &quot;Really?&quot;  Her  voice  has  a  tone  of  deliberate  irony.  &quot;Is  everybody  after  you?&quot;  How  can  she  be  so  cynical  asto  insist  to  his  face  that  the  two  men  staring  at  them  with  such  brazen  inso-  lence  are  merely  casual  passersby?  There  is  only  one  explanation.  She  is  play-  ing  their  game-a  game  of  pretending  that  there  is  no  such  thing  as  a  police  agent  and  no  such  thing  as  police  harassment.  In  the  meantime,  as  Mirek  and  Zdena  watch,  the  two  agents  cross  the  street  and  climb  into  their  car.  &quot;Stay  well,&quot;  says  Mirek,  without  so  much  as  a  glance  at  Zdena.  He  slips  behind  the  wheel  of  his  car.  In  the  mirror  he  sees  the  agents'  car  pulling  away  from  the  curb  behind  him,  He  does  not  see  Zdena.  He  does  not  want  tosee  her-ever.  He  thus  will  not  know  that  she  has  re-  mained  standing  on  the  sidewalk,  gazing  after  him  for  a  long  time  with  a  frightened  look  on  her  face.  No,  it  was  not  cyn-  icism  when  she  refused  to  recognize  the  men  on  the  opposite  side  of  the  street  as  police  agents.  She  was  seized  by  fearof  circumstances  that  had  grown  toolarge  for  her.  She  was  try-  ing  to  hide  the  truth  from  him  and  from  herself.  RED  convertible  driven  by  some  speedster  has  suddenly  cutbe-  tween  Mirek  and  the  police  car.  Mirek  steps  on  the  gas.  They  are  just  coming  into  a  small  town.  The  road  curves  sharply.  Mirek  realizes  that  at  this  mo-  ment  his  pursuers  cannot  see  him,  and  veers  off  into  a  small  side  street.  Tires  squeal,  and  a  boy  who  was  about  to  cross  the  street  barely  manages  to  jump  out  of  the  way.  In  his  mirror  Mirek  sees  the  convertible  whisk  by  on  the  highway.  But  the  pursuers'  car  has  not  yet  come  into  view.  A  moment  later  he  manages  to  turn  into  still  another  street  and  to  shake  them  for  good.  He  leaves  the  town  by  an  entirely  different  route.  He  glances  in  the  rear-  view  mirror.  Nobody  is  following  him,  the  road  is  empty.  He  imagines  the  unfortunate  pair  of  agents,  anxiously  searching  for  him,  afraid  of  facing  their  chief.  He  bursts  out  laughing,  slows  down,  and  be-  gins  to  look  around  at  the  landscape.  This  is  something  he  has  never  actual-  ly  done  before.  He  has  always  been  on  the  move  toward  some  goal,  to  arrange  something  or  to  discuss  some-  thing,  so  that  physical  space  has  meant  little  more  than  an  impediment,  a  loss  of  time,  an  obstacle  to  his  activity.  At  a  grade  crossing  ashort  distance     " b"ahead,  two  red-and-white  striped  gates  are  slowly  being  lowered.  He  stops  the  car.  Suddenly  he  feels  enormously  tired.  Why  has  he  gone  to  all  this  trouble?  Why  bother  with  those  letters?  He  is  seized  by  the  senselessness,  ridiculousness,  childishness  of  his  trip.  There  was  no  practical  reason  for  it.  He  was  impelled  by  some  uncon-  trollable  urge-the  urge  to  reach  far  into  the  past  and  to  smash  it  with  his  fist,  the  urge  to  slash  to  shreds  the  canvas  of  his  youth-a  passionate  urge  that  he  has  been  unable  to  master  and  that  now  will  remain  forever  unap-  peased.  He  is  overwhelmed  by  weariness.  It  is  probably  no  longer  possible  to  remove  the  compromising  documents  from  his  apartment.  'They  are  on  his  track  and  will  not  let  go.  It's  too  late.  Yes,  it's  too  late  for  everything.  From  a  distance  he  hears  the  chug-  ging  of  the  train.  A  woman  with  a  red  kerchief  on  her  head  is  standing  near  the  gate.  The  train  pulls  in,  a  slow  lo-  cal.  An  old  man  with  a  pipe  leans  out  of  one  of  the  windows  and  spits.  Then  the  station  bell  starts  ringing,  and  the  woman  with  the  red  kerchief  steps  to  the  gate  and  turns  a  crank.  The  gate  lifts,  and  Mirek  is  off.  He  enters  a  vil-  lage  that  is  nothing  but  a  long,  straight  road  with  the  railroad  station  at  one  end-a  small,  low  white  house,  bor-  dered  by  a  picket  fence,  through  which  one  can  see  the  platform  and  the  tracks.  HE  station-house  windows  are  decorated  with  flowerpots  of  be-  gonias.  Mirek  stops  the  car.  He  is  seat-  ed  behind  the  wheel,  and  he  is  looking  at  the  house,  the  windows,  and  the  red  flowers.  From  a  long-forgotten  past  rises  the  memory  of  another  white  house  with  begonias  blooming  on  the  windowsills.  A  small  hotel  in  a  moun-  tain  village.  Summer  vacation.  At  the  window,  among  the  flowers,  a  long  nose  appears.  And  twenty-year-old  Mirek  looks  up  at  that  nose  and  feels  an  enormous  surge  of  love.  His  impulse  is  to  step  on  the  gas  and  escape  this  memory.  But  this  time  I  refuse  to  let  myself  be  robbed,  I  make  this  memory  linger  a  moment  more.  And  so  I  repeat:  In  the  window,  among  the  begonias,  appears  Zdena's  face,  with  its  huge  nose,  and  Mirek  feels  a  great  love.  Is  this  possible?  Yes,  And  why  not?  Cannot  a  weak  man  feel  a  great  love  for  an  ugly  woman?  He  used  to  tell  her  how  he  rebelled  against  a  reactionary  father,  she  used  to  inveigh  against  intellectuals,  they  had  blisters  on  their  backsides,  and  they  held  hands,  They  attended  meetings,  denounced  fellow-citizens,  lied,  and  made  love.  She  wept  over  the  death  of  Masturbov,  he  growled  on  top  of  her  body  like  a  mad  dog,  and  they  could  not  live  without  each  other.  He  tore  her  out  of  the  album  of  his  memory  not  because  he  did  not  care  for  her  but  because  he  did.  He  erased  her,  together  with  his  love  for  her,  he  scratched  her  out  just  as  the  propa-  ganda  bureau  of  the  Party  scratched  out  Clementis  from  the  balcony  on  which  Gottwald  delivered  his  historic  speech.  Mirek  rewrote  history  just  like  the  Communist  Party,  like  all  political  parties,  like  all  nations,  like  all  human  beings.  People  clamor  that  they  want  to  create  a  better  future,  but  this  is  not  true,.  The  future  is  but  an  indiffer-  ent  void  that  interests  nobody,  while  the  past  is  full  of  life  and  its  counte-  nance  provokes,  irritates,  insults  us,  goading  us  to  destroy  or  repaint  it.  People  want  to  be  masters  of  the  fu-  ture  only  in  order  to  be  able  to  improve  the  past.  People  fight  foraccess  to  the  laboratories  where  photographs  are  re-touched  and  the  histories  of  men  a  nd  nations  rewritten.  How  long  did  he  remain  in  front  of  that  railroad  stat  ion?  And  what  did  this  interlude  mean?  It  meant  nothing.  He  erased  it  at  once  from  his  mem-  or  y,  so  that  at  this  moment  he  n  o  longer  knows  anything  about  a  little  white  house  with  begonias.  He  is  again  speeding  through  the  cou  ntry  sid  e,  loo  k-  ing  neither  left  nor  right.  The  land-  scape  of  the  world  has  once  again  turned  into  a  mere  obstacle  to  his  progress.  HE  car  that  he  has  succeeded  in  eluding  is  parked  in  front  of  his  house.  The  two  men  are  standing  nearby.  He  pulls  up  behind  their  car  and  steps  out.  'They  smile  at  him  almost  cheerfully,  as  if  Mirek's  attempt  at  escape  was  but  a  merry  prank,  a  pleas-  ant  diversion  for  them  all.  As  he  walks  past  them,  the  man  with  the  thick  neck  and  styled  gray  hair  laughs  and  nods  at  him.  Mirek  cringes  at  this  familiari-  ty,  for  it  is  a  hint  that  from  now  on  they  are  going  to  be  tied  even  more  closely  to  one  another.  He  keeps  his  composure  and  enters  the  house.  He  unlocks  the  door  of  his  apartment.  He  sees  first  his  son,  whose  expression  is  full  of  suppressed  agita-  tion.  A  man  wearing  glasses  ap-  proaches  Mirek  and  identifies  himself:  &quot;Do  you  wish  to  see  the  procurator's  search  warrant?&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  Mirek  replies.  Two  other  strangers  are  in  the  apartment.  One  is  standing  at  Mirek's  writing  desk,  which  is  piled  high  with  stacks  of  papers,  notebooks,  and  books.  He  picks  them  up  one  after  another  while  the  second  man,  seated  at  the  desk,  lists  what  his  colleague  dictates.  " b"The  man  with  the  glasses  pulls  a  folded  document  out  of  his  breast  pock-  et  and  hands  it  to  Mirek.  &quot;Here  is  the  warrant,  and  over  there&quot;&quot;  -he  points  at  the  two  men-'&quot;a  list  of  impounded  material  is  being  prepared  for  you.&quot;  The  floor  is  littered  with  papers  and  books,  the  doors  of  cabinets  gape,  furni-  ture  has  been  shifted  away  from  the  walls.  His  son  leans  toward  Mirek  and  whispers,  &quot;They  arrived  five  minutes  after  you  left.&quot;  Themen  at  the  writing  table  con-  tinue  to  itemize  the  confiscated  papers:  letters  from  Mirek's  friends,  documents  from  the  first  days  of  the  527573736961n  occu-  pation,  political  analyses,  notes  from  meetings,  and  several  pamphlets.  &quot;'You  don't  seem  to  have  much  re-  spect  for  your  fellow-citizens,&quot;  says  the  man  with  the  glasses,  and  nods  in  the  direction  of  the  manuscripts.  &quot;There  is  nothing  in  this  house  which  is  contrary  to  the  constitution,&quot;  says  Mirek's  son,  and  Mirek  knows  that  these  are  his  own,  Mirek's,  words.  The  man  with  the  glasses  retorts  that  itis  forthe  court  to  decide  what  is  or  is  not  contrary  to  the  constitution.  *  I  'HE  people  who  emigrated  (they  number  a  hundred  and  twenty  thousand),  the  people  who  were  si-  lenced  and  driven  from  their  work  (they  number  half  a  million)  are  fad-  ing  like  a  procession  vanishing  into  the  mist,  invisible  and  forgotten.  But  a  prison,  even  though  it  is  sur-  rounded  by  walls,  is  a  splendidly  lighted  theatre  of  history.  Mirek  has  known  this  for  a  long  time.  The  idea  of  prison  has  been  ir-  resistibly  luring  him  throughout  the  past  year.  Flaubert,  no  doubt,  was  fascinated  in  much  the  same  way  by  the  suicide  of  Madame  Bovary.  No,  Mirek  could  not  imagine  a  better  ending  for  his  life's  story.  They  wanted  to  erase  hundreds  of  thousands  of  lives  from  human  mem-  ory,  so  that  the  past  could  become  but  one  long,  unblemished  idyll.  But  Mirek  is  going  to  plunge  into  this  idyll  and  blotch  it  with  his  outstretched  body.  He  is  going  to  grasp  the  idyll  and  cling  to  it  like  the  cap  of  Clementis  on  Gott-  wald's  head.  They  had  Mirek  sign  a  list  of  im-  pounded  items,  and  then  they  asked  him  to  come  with  them,  along  with  his  son.  After  a  year  of  detention  came  the  trial.  Mirek  was  sentenced  to  six  years,  his  son  to  two  years,  and  a  dozen  of  their  friends  to  terms  ranging  from  a  year  to  six  years  in  prison."