 b"It's  spring,  and  the  Crumps,  Bro-  I  die  and  Beryl,  have  come  back  from  their  sabbatical.  It  was  fall  semester  at  full  salary  they  had,  plus  the  summer.  It  had  cost  Brodie  teach-  ing  Written  Expression  (special  sec-  tion  for  those  with  no  native  lan-  guage)  in  the  Evening  Division  four  semesters  in  a  row,  plus  a  three-year  extension  of  his  oath  of  admiration  and  fealty  to  the  Academic  V.P.  They've  come  back  with  a  new  car  they  bought  in  [REDACTED],  where  Bro-  die,  who's  into  folklore,  was  doing  something  with  national  oral  epics  hithertobelieved  lost  or  just  forbidden.  We  got  a  few  postcards,  all  of  which  looked  like  they'd  been  rained  or  spit  on.  We  called  them  yesterday;  Beryl  seemed  a  little  upset.  They'd  rented  to  four  folksingers,  who  had  sold  all  the  major  appliances  and  painted  the  windows  in  the  front  of  the  house  black  and  put  all  the  mattresses  from  the  beds  in  one  room.  And  in  the  ga-  rage  there  were  fourteen  ten-speed  bicycles,  all  girls'  models  And  the  phone  calls-people  they  didn't  know  wanting  to  come  over  and  &quot;party.&quot;  But  it  could  have  been  worse.  I  re-  minded  them  of  the  Fosburghs  in  '72,  who  never  did  find  their  house,  and  they'd  only  gone  to  Stanford.  We  in-  vited  them  for  supper.  It  seemed  the  thing  to  do;  it  would  be  at  least  a  week  before  their  new  refrigerator  came,  for  their  new  kitchen.  They  were  late  and  then  later,  and  I  had  a  third  drink,  and  then  up  the  driveway  came  a  gnomish,  mud-col-  ored  car  like  those  tiny  ones  that  all  the  people  used  to  get  out  of  at  the  circus.  It  was  snapping  and  smoking  and  skidding  at  the  edge  of  a  pile  of  grass  cuttings  I'd  forgotten  to  rake  up.  The  Crumps  got  out  blinking  and  stretching.  We  were  glad  to  see  them.  On  the  porch  over  drinks  Brodie  told  me  it  wasn't  quite  what  they  had  in  mind  (the  car).  It  was  a  Zlad,  a  Zlad  14-[REDACTED]'s  answer  to  the  Mercedes  and  the  Peugeot  and  the  BMW.  He'd  thought  (and,  worse,  he'd  told  Beryl)  that  14  was  the  model  number.  And  it  was,  it  was-  but  it  was  also  the  horsepower.  They'd  had  to  come  by  way  of  Lin-  coln  and  Eustis,  looking  for  flat,  dry,  uncrowned  roads.  He  was  sorry  they  were  so  late,  but  they'd  also  had  to  find  a  kerosene  dealer.  Beryl,  Id  noticed,  was  carrying  a  large,  lumpy  package,  which  turned  out  to  be  presents  for  us  stay-at-homes.  My  wife,  Faye,  was  the  opener;  she  usually  knows  what  to  say.  But  these-  there  were  two  of  them-were  a  chal-  lenge.  She  held  them  up  for  me  to  see,  smiling  helplessly.  Lovely.  She  had  never  .  ..  I  hadn't,  either.  Of  course-  bark  paintings.  But  on  bark,  or  with  bark?  Both,  both.  To  hang  on  the  wall.  Yes,  I  could  see  the  wire  across  the  back.  A  thoughtful  gift.  Unique,  even:  nice  to  use  the  word  in  its  exact  sense.  I  thought  that  Brodie  looked  differ-  ent,  but  you  expect  that,  with  six  months  away,  in  another  country.  There  was  the  suit-a  fuzzy  bottle-  green-and-gray  check  with  a  double  belt  and  no  lapels.  But  that  wasn't  it;  he'd  bought  that  in  [REDACTED]  years  ago.  It  was  his  hair.  Brodie  doesn't  have  very  much.  Very  little,  as  a  mat-  ter  of  fact.  Or  that's  how  it  used  to  be.  But  now  there  were  vivid,  thick  chest-  nut  curls  above  the  familiar  thin  sandi-  ness  and  the  rather  wispy  gray  at  the  sideburns.  Answering  my  suppressed  question,  he  told  me  that  after  the  ac-  cident  at  the  Twenty-third  of  May  Memorial  Tractor  Works  Celebration  at  Sgrocz,  Beryl  had  made  him  buy  a  wig.  I  imagined  what  I  imagined,  but  no-that  wasn't  it.  It  was  that  the  Memorial  Grosbeak  Flock  had  mis-  taken  Brodie's  head  for  their  white  pig-  nut-cracking  rock.  He'd  gotten  to  like  it  (the  wig),  wore  it  all  the  time.  Did  I  think-he  leaned  forward-it  looked  unnatural?  No,  I  said,  I  wouldn't  call  it  that.  Not  that.  They  were  going  to  sue.  The  folk-  singers,  that  is.  And/or  the  lawyer  friend,  the  former  lawyer  and  former  friend-the  one  who'd  drawn  up  the  hardboiled,  iron-clad,  Draconian  lease  with  the  substantial  damage-money  clauses  and  an  elaborate  supplemental  penalty  scheme,  like  if  the  grass  didn't  look  O.K.,  then  $400.  The  lease-  Brodie  sighed-was  three  pages  long,  signed,  witnessed,  dated,  a  copy  for  the  folksingers,  a  copy  for  the  Crumps, which  their  formerlawyer  kept.  Brodie  had  been  a  little  suspicious,  even  then-  all  four  of  the  singers  having  the  same  first  name,  Enzo.  And  one  day  En-  zo-it  was  about  the  Fourth  of  July  and  that  idiot  (the  lawyer)  was  off  in  [REDACTED]-Enzo  (the  one  in  the  bur-  nous)  went  to  the  idiot's  office  and  said  they'd  misplaced  their  copy  of  the  lease  and  could  he  please  borrow  the  idiot's.  And  of  course,  Brodie  said,  the  secretary  let  him  take  it,  and  nobody  ever  saw  it  again.  SUPPER  conversation  was  a  little  awkward.  Brodie,  it  seemed,  had  found  the  42756c6761726961n  bards  very  re-  clusive-damned  hard  to  find,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  the  vicious  devils-so  that  once  he'd  cornered  one,  and  after  the  trouble  with  the  donkey,  he  had  just  camped  out  with  him.  It  wasn't  that  Brodie  particularly  minded  living  outside;  it  was  just  that  there  really  wasn't  room  for  two  people  in  the  hol-  low  tree  under  the  waterfall.  Anyway,  that  was  how  he'd  gotten  into  the  habit  of  straining  his  wine  through  Kleenex  and  hitting  his  roll  with  a  knife  while  waiting  with  his  other  knife  to  stab  anything  that  came  running  out.  42756c6761726961n,  he  told  me,  is  a  very  dif-  ficult  language  for  most  Americans  to  master.  About  seven  thousand  times  as  hard  as  Spanish.  But  Brodie  had,  yes,  by  intensive  study  and  by  actually  speaking  it.  That's  the  secret.  From  his  bard  he'd  picked  up  some  conversa-  tional  phrases  about  sheep  and  shep-  herds,  grass,  the  danger  of  werewolves.  That  old  man,  though,  must  have  had  a  nasty  sense  of  humor,  because  at  the  airport  Brodie-no  matter  he  spoke  very  clearly  to  the  ticket-seller  and  then  the  guards-was  put  into  a  cage  and  loaded  into  the  baggage  compartment.  It  was  by  this  time  growing  late,  the  more  so  because  the  Crumps  were  not  accustomed  to  being  out  of  their  sheep-  skin  sleeping  pouches  after  eight  o'clock.  We  saw  them  to  their  car,  watched  with  real  interest  as  they  got  them-  selves  into  it.  Brodie  disengaged  the  hand  brake,  which  stuck  out  at  the  junc-  tion  of  driver's  door  and  windshield,  and  Beryl  assumed  the  fetal  posture.  After  Brodie  relighted  the  burner  once  with  his  punk  stick,  they  rolled  off  down  the  driveway  in  the  moonlight,  Brodie  singing  in  his  clear  tenor  (in  42756c6761726961n)  of,  we  guessed,  heroic  flock-watchers  calling  their  sheep  through  the  moraines  and  trees  and  muscadine  grape  arbors,  plagued  by  the  local  echo  divinity  and  his  redupli-  cating  brethren,  or  something  like  that. "