 b"SOME  five  years  back,  when professor  Uri  Zalkind  left  New  York  for  [REDACTED]  after  his  wife  Lotte's  death,  he  had  decided  never  to  return  to  this  wild  city.  Lotte's  long  sickness  had  broken  his  spirit.  His  health,  too,  it  seemed.  Not  long  after  he  buried  her,  he  fell  sick  with  double  pneumonia  and  an  obstruction  of  the  kidneys.  He  had  been  living  and  teach-  ing  philosophy  in  New  York  for  almost  thirty  years,  but  he  still  felt  like  a  stranger  in  [REDACTED],  The  German  Jews  did  not  forgive  him  for  having  been  raised  in  [REDACTED],  the  son  of  some  Galician  rabbi,  and  speaking  German  with  an  accent,  Lotte  herself,  who  was  German,  called  him  Ost;ude  when  she  quarrelled  with  him.  To  the  527573736961n  and  Polish  Jews  he  was  a  German,  since,  besides  being  married  to  a  Ger-  man,  for  many  years  he  had  lived  in  [REDACTED].  He  might  have  made  friends  with  556e6974656420537461746573n  members  of  the  faculty  or  with  his  students,  but  there  was  lit-  tle  interest  in  philosophy  at  the  univer-  sity,  and  in  Jewish  philosophy  in  par-  ticular.  He  and  Lotte  had  no  children.  Through  the  first  years  they  still  had  relatives  in  [REDACTED],  but  most  of  the  old  ones  had  died  and  he  never  kept  in  touch  with  the  younger  genera-  tion.  Just  the  same,  this  winter  morn-  ing  Dr.  Uri  Zalkind  had  taken  a  plane  to  New  York-a  man  over  eighty,  small,  frail,  with  a  bent  back,  a  little  white  beard,  and  bushy  eyebrows  that  retained  a  trace  of  having  oncebeen  red.  Behind  thick-lensed  glasses,  his  eyes  were  gray,  permanently  inflamed.  It  was  a  bad  day  to  have  come  to  New  York.  The  pilot  had  announced  that  there  was  a  blizzard  in  the  city,  with  gusting  winds,  A  dark  cloud  cov-  ered  the  area,  and  in  the  last  minutes  before  landing  at  LaGuardia  anomi-  nous  silence  settled  over  the  passen-  gers.  They  avoided  looking  one  another  in  the  eye,as  if  ashamed  beforehand  of  the  panic  that  might  soon  break  out.  Whatever  happens,  I  have  rightly  deserved  it,  Dr.  Zalkind  thought.  His  [REDACTED]  Beach  neighbors  in  the  senior-  citizens  apartment  complex  had  warned  him  that  flying  in  such  weath-  er  was  suicide,  And  for  what  was  he  risking  his  life?  For  the  manuscript  of  a  book  no  one  would  read  except  pos-  sibly  a  few  reviewers.  He  was  glad  that  he  carried  no  other  luggage  than  his  briefcase.  He  raised  the  fur  collar  of  the  long  coat  he  had  brought  with  him  from  [REDACTED]  and,  clutching  his  case  in  his  right  hand  and  holding  on  to  his  broad-brimmed  hat  with  his  left,  he  went  out  of  the  terminal  to  look  for  a  taxi.  From  sitting  three  hours  in  one  position  his  legs  had  become  numb.  Snow  fell  at  an  angle,  dry  as  sand.  The  wind  was  icy.  Although  he  had  made  a  firm  decision  that  morn-  ing  to  forget  nothing,  Professor  Zal-  kind  now  realized  that  he  had  left  his  muffler  and  rubbers  at  home.  He  had  planned  to  put  on  his  woollen  sweater  in  the  plane  and  this  he  had  forgotten,  too.  By  the  time  a  taxi  final-  ly  stopped  for  him,  he  could  not  tell  the  driver  the  address  ofthe  bank  to  which  he  wanted  to  go.  He  remem-bered  only  that  it  was  on  Fifty-seventh  Street  between  Eighth  Avenue  and  [REDACTED].  Professor  Zalkind  had  more  than  one  reason  for  undertaking  this  jour-  ney.  First,  the  editor  of  the  university  press  that  was  to  publish  his  book,  &quot;Philo  Judaeus  and  the  Cabala,&quot;  had  called  to  tell  him  that  he  would  be  visiting  New  York  in  the  next  few  days.  According  to  the  contract,  Pro-  fessor  Zalkind  was  to  have  delivered  the  manuscript  some  two  years  ago.  Because  he  had  added  a  number  of  footnotes  and  made  many  alterations  in  the  text,  he  decided  he  should  meet  with  the  editor  personally  rather  than  send  the  manuscript  by  mail.  Second,  he  wanted  to  see  Hilda,  the  only  living  cousin  of  his  late  wife.  He  hadn't  seen  her  for  five  years,  and  her  daughter  had  written  to  him  that  her  mother  was  seriously  ill.  Third,  Professor  Zalkind  had  read  in  the  [REDACTED]  Herald  that  last  Saturday  thieves  had  broken  into  a  bink  in  New  York  and  by  boring  a  hole  in  the  steel  door  leading  to  the  vault  they  had  stolen  everything  they  could.  True,  this  theft  had  not  occurred  in  the  bank  where  Zalkind  rented  a  safe-deposit  box.  Still,  the  news  item,  headlined  &quot;How  Safe  Is  a  Safe?,&quot;  disturbed  him  to  such  a  degree  that  he  could  not  sleep  the  whole  night  after  he  read  it.  In  his  box  were  deposited  Lotte's  jewelry,  his  will,  and  a  number  of  important  let-  ters,  as  well  as  a  manuscript  of  essays  on  metaphysics  he  had  written  when  he  was  young-a  work  he  would  never  dare  publish  while  he  was  alive  but  one  he  did  not  want  to  lose.  In  addition  to  the  safe-deposit  box,  he  had  in  the  same  bank  a  savings  account  of  some  seventeen  thousand  dollars,  which  he  intended  to  with-draw  and  deposit  in  [REDACTED].  It  was  not  that  he  needed  money.  He  had  a  pension  from  his  years  of  teaching  at  the  university.  He  had  been  receiving  a  So-  cial  Security  check  each  month  since  he  became  seventy-two;  regularly,  reparation  money  came  from  [REDACTED],  which  he  had  escaped  after  Hitler  came  to  power.  But  why  keep  his  be-  longings  in  New  York  \xe2\x80\x98  now  that  he  was  a  resi-dent  of  [REDACTED]?  Another  motive-  perhaps  the  most  im-  portant-brought  the  " b"old  man  to  New  York.  For  many  years  he  had  suffered  from  prostate  trouble,  and  the  doc-  tors  he  consulted  had  all  advised  him  to  have  an  operation.Procrasti-  nation  could  be  fatal,  they  told  him.  He  had  made  up  his  mind  to  visit  a  urologist  in  New  York-a  physi-  cian  from  [REDACTED],  a  refugee  like  himself.  AFTER  crawling  in  traffic  for  a  long  time,  the  taxi  stopped  at  Eighth  Avenue  and  Fifty-seventh  Street.  No  matter  how  Profes-  sor  Zalkind  tried,  he  couldn't  read  the  me-  ter.  Lately,  the  retinas  of  his  eyes  had  begun  to  degenerate  and  he  could  read  only  with  a  large  magnifying  glass.  Assuming  that  he  would  get  change,  he  handed  the  driver  a  ten-dollar  bill,  but  the  driver  complained  that  it  was  not  enough.  Zal-  kind  gave  himtwo  dol-  lars  more,  The  blizzard  was  getting  worse,  The  afternoon  was  as  dark  as  dusk.  The  moment  Zalkind  opened  the  door  of  the  taxi,  snow  hithis  face  like  hail,.  He  struggled  against  the  wind  until  he  reached  Seventh  Avenue.  There  was  no  signof  his  bank.  He  continued  as  far  east  as  Fifth.  A  new  building  was  being  constructed.  Was  it  possible  that  they  had  torn  down  the  bank  without  letting  him  know?  In  the  midst  ofthe  storm,  motors  roared,  trucks  and  cars  honked.  He  wanted  to  ask  the  construction  workers  where  the  bank  had  moved,  but  in  the  clang  and  clamor  no  one  would  hear  his  voice.  The  words  in  the  Book  of  Job  came  to  his  mind:  &quot;He  shall  return  no  more  to  his  house,  neither  shall  his  place  know  him  anymore.&quot;  Now  Zalkind  had  come  to  a  public  telephone,  and  somehow  he  got  out  a  dime  and  dialled  Hilda's  number.  He  heard  the  voice  of  a  stranger,  and  could  not  make  out  what  was  being  said  to  him.  Well,  everything  is  topsy-turvy  with  me  today,  he  thought.  Presently  it  occurred  to  him  that  he  had  looked  only  on  one  side  of  the  street,  sure  that  the  bank  was  there.  Perhaps  he  was  mis-  taken?  He  tried  to  cross  the  street,  but  his  glasses  had  become  opaque  and  he  couldn't  be  sure  of  traffic-light  colors.  He  finally  made  it  across,  and  after  a  while  he  saw  a  bank  that  resembled  his,  though  it  had  a  different  name.  He  entered.  There  was  not  a  single  customer  in  the  place.  Tellers  sat  idly  behind  the  little  windows.  A  guard  in  uniform  approached  himand  Zalkind  asked  him  if  this  was  indeed  his  bank.  At  first  the  guard  didn't  seem  to  un-  derstand  his  accent.  Then  he  said  it  was  the  same  bank-it  had  merged  with  another  one  and  the  name  had  been  changed.  &quot;How  did  it  come  that  you  didn't  let  me  know?&quot;  &quot;Notices  went  out  to  all  our  de-  positors.&quot;  &quot;Thank  you,  thank  you,  Really,  I  began  to  think  I  was  getting  senile,&quot;  Dr.  Zalkind  said  to  the  guard  and  him-  self.  &quot;What  about  the  safe-deposit  boxes?&quot;  &quot;They  are  where  they  were.&quot;  &quot;Ihave  a  savings  account  in  this  bank,  and  a  lot  of  interest  must  have  accumulated  in  the  years  I've  been  away.  I  want  to  withdraw  it.&quot;  &quot;As  you  wish.&quot;  Dr.  Zalkind  approached  a  counter  and  began  to  search  for  his  bankbook.  He  remembered  positively  that  he  had  brought  it  with  him  in  one  of  the  breast  pockets  of  his  jacket.  He  emptied  both  and  found  everything  except  his  bank-  book-his  Social  Security  card,  his  air-  plane  ticket,  old  letters,  notebooks,  a  telephone  bill,  even  a  leaflet  advertising  a  dancing  school  which  had  been  handed  to  him  on  the  street,  &quot;Am  I  insane?&quot;  Dr.  Zalkind  asked  himself,  &quot;Are  the  demons  after  me?  Maybe  I  put  it  into  my  case.  But  where  is  my  case?&quot;  He  glanced  right  and  left,  on  the  counter  and  under  it.  There  was  no  trace  of  a  briefcase.  &quot;I  have  left  it  in  the  tele-  phone  booth!&quot;  he  said  with  a  tremor  in  his  voice.  &quot;My  manuscript  too!&quot;  The  bank  suddenly  became  dark,  and  a  golden  eye  lit  upon  a  black  back-  ground-otherworldly,  dreamily  radi-  ant,  its  edges  jagged,  a  blemish  in  the  pupil,  like  the  eye  of  some  cosmic  em-  bryo  in  the  process  of  formation.  This  vision  baffled  him,  and  for  some  time  he  forgot  his  briefcase.  He  watched  the  mysterious  eye  growing  both  in  size  and  in  luminosity.  What  he  saw  now  was  not  altogether  new  to  him.  As  a  child,  he  had  seen  similar  entities-sometimes  an  eye,  other  timesa  fiery  flower  that  opened  its  petals  or  a  dazzling  butter-  fly  or  some  unearthly  snake,  Those  ap-  paritions  always  came  to  him  at  times  of  " b"distress,  as  when  he  was  whipped  in  cheder,  was  attacked  by  some  vicious  urchin,  or  was  sick  with  fever.  Perhaps  those  hallucinations  were  incompati-  ble  forms  that  the  soul  created  without  any  pattern  in  the  Ideas,  Professor  Zal-  kind  pondered  in  Platonicterms.  He  leaned  on  the  counter  in  order  not  to  fall.  I'm  not  going  to  faint,  he  ordered  himself.  His  belly  had  become  bloat-  ed  and  a  mixture  of  a  belch  and  a  hic-  cup  came  from  his  mouth.  This  is  my  end!  r.  ZaurkInp  opened  the  outside  door  of  the  bank  with  difficulty,  determined  to  find  the  telephone  booth.  He  looked  around,  but  no  telephone  booth  was  in  sight.  He  choked  from  the  blast  of  the  wind.  In  all  his  anguish  his  brain  remained  playful,.  Is  the  North  Pole  visiting  New  York?  Has  the  Ice  Epoch  returned?  Is  the  sun  being  extinguished?  Dr.  Zalkind  had  often  seen  blind  men  crossing  the  streets  of  New  York  without  a  guide,  waving  a  white  stick.  He  could  never  understand  where  they  acquired  the  courage  for  this.  The  wind  pushed  him  back,  blew  up  the  skirts  of  his  coat,  tore  at  his  hat.  No,  I  can't  go  looking  for  the  phantom  of  a  telephone  booth  in  this  hurricane,  He  dragged  himself  back  to  the  bank,  where  he  searched  again  for  his  briefcase  on  the  counters  and  floor.  He  had  no  copy  of  the  manuscript,  just  a  pile  of  papers  written  in  longhand-actually,  not  more  than  notes.  He  saw  a  bench  and  collapsed  onto  it.  He  sat  silent,  ready  for  death,  which,  according  to  Philo,  redeems  the  soul  from  theprison  of  the  flesh,  from  the  vagaries  of  the  senses.  Although  Zalkind  had  read  everything  Philo  wrote,  he  could  never  conclude  from  his  writings  whether  matter  was  created  by  God  or  always  existed  -a  primeval  chaos,  the  negative  principle  of  the  godhead.  Dr.  Zalkind  found  contradictions  in  Philo's  philosophy  and  puzzles  no  mind  could  solve  as  long  as  it  was  chained  in  the  errors  of  corporal-  ity,  &quot;Well,  I  may  soon  see  the  truth,&quot;  he  murmured.  For  a  while  he  dozed  and  even  began  to  dream,.  He  woke  with  a  start.  The  guard  was  bending  over  him.  &quot;Is  something  wrong?  Can  I  help?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  had  a  briefcase  with  me  and  I  lost  it.  My  bankbook  was  there.&quot;  Your  bankbook?  You  can  get  an-  other  one.  No  one  can  take  out  your  money  without  your  signature,  Where  did  you  lose  it?  In  a  taxi?&quot;  &quot;Perhaps.&quot;  &quot;All  you  have  to  do  is  notify  the  bank  that  you  lost  the  bankbook  and  after  thirty  days  they  will  give  you  an-  other  one.&quot;  &quot;I  would  like  to  go  to  the  safe-  deposit  boxes.&quot;  &quot;I'll  take  you  in  the  elevator.&quot;  The  guard  helped  Dr.  Zalkind  get  up.  He  half  led  him,  half  pushed  him  to  the  elevator  and  pressed  the  button  to  the  basement.  There,  in  spite  of  his  confusion,  Professor  Zalkind  recog-  nized  the  clerk  who  sat  in  front  of  the  entrance  to  the  safe-deposit  boxes.  His  hair  had  turned  gray,  but  his  face  remained  young  and  ruddy.  The  man  also  recognized  Zalkind.  He  clapped  his  hands  and  called,  &quot;Professor  Zalkind,  whom  do  I  see!  We  already  thought  that  .  ..  you  were  sick  or  something?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  no.&quot;  &quot;Let  me  get  the  figures  on  your  account,&quot;  the  clerk  said.  He  went  into  another  room.  Zalkind  heard  his  name  mentioned  on  the  telephone.  &quot;Everything  is  all  right,&quot;  the  clerk  said  when  he  returned.  &quot;What  you  owe  us  is  more  than  covered  by  the  in-  " b"terest  in  your  account.&quot;  He  gave  Zal-  kind  a  slip  to  sign.It  took  some  time.  His  hand  shook  like  that  of  aperson  suffering  from  Parkinson's  disease.  The  clerk  stamped  the  slip  and  nodded.  &quot;You  don't  live  in  New  York  any-  more?&quot;  &quot;No,  in  [REDACTED].&quot;  &quot;What  is  your  new  address?&quot;  Dr.  Zalkind  wanted  to  answer,  but  he  had  forgotten  both  the  street  and  the  number.  The  heavy  door  opened  and  he  gave  the  slip  to  another  clerk,  who  led  him  into  the  room  holding  the  safe-deposit  boxes.  Zalkind's  box  was  in  the  middle  row.  The  clerk  motioned  with  his  hand.  &quot;Your  key.&quot;  ((My  key?  H  Yes,  your  key,  to  open  the  box.&quot;  Only  now  did  it  occur  to  Dr.  Zal-  kind  that  one  needed  a  key  to  get  into  a  safe-deposit  box.  He  searched  through  his  pockets  and  took  out  a  chain  of  keys,  but  he  was  sure  they  were  all  from  [REDACTED].  He  stood  there  perplexed.  &quot;I'm  sorry,  I  haven't  the  key  to  my  box.&quot;  &quot;You  do  have  it.  Give  me  those  keys!&quot;  The  man  grabbed  the  key  chain  and  showed  Professor  Zalkind  one  that  was  larger  than  the  others,  He  had  been  carrying  a  key  to  his  safe-deposit  box  with  him  all  those  years,  not  knowing  what  it  was  for.  The  clerk  pulled  out  a  metal  box  and  led  Zal-  kind  into  a  long  corridor,  opened  a  door  to  a  room  without  a  window,  and  turned  on  the  light.  He  put  the  box  on  the  table  and  showed  Zalkind  a  switch  on  the  wall  to  use  when  he  had  finished.  After  some  fumbling,  Zalkind  man-  aged  to  open  the  box.  He  sat  and  gaped.  Time  had  turned  him  sick,  de-  feated,  but  for  these  objects  in  the  box  it  did  not  exist,  They  had  lain  there  for  years  without  consciousness,  with-  out  any  need-dead  matter,  unless  the  animists  were  correct  in  considering  all  substance  alive.  To  Einstein,  mass  was  condensed  energy,.  Could  it  perhaps  also  be  condensed  spirit?  Though  Pro-  fessor  Zalkind  had  packed  his  mag-  nifying  glass  in  his  briefcase,  he  recog-  nized  stacks  of  Lotte's  love  letters  tied  with  ribbons,  his  diary,  and  his  youth-  ful  manuscript  with  the  title  &quot;Philo-  sophical  Fantasies'&quot;-a  collection  of  es-  says,  feuilletons,  and  aphorisms.  After  a  while  he  lifted  out  Lotte's  jewelry.  He  never  knew  that  she  pos-  sessed  so  many  trinkets.  There  were  bracelets,  rings,  earrings,  broaches,  chains,  a  string  of  pearls.  She  had  in-  herited  all  this  from  her  mother,  her  grandmothers,  perhaps  her  great-grand-  mothers.  It  was  probably  worth  a  for-  tune,  but  what  would  he  do  with  mon-  ey  at  this  stage?  He  sat  there  and  took  stock  of  his  life.  Lotte  had  craved  children,  but  he  had  refused  to  in-  crease  the  misery  of  the  human  species  and  Jewish  troubles,  he  had  said.  She  wanted  to  travel  with  him.  He  deprived  her  of  this,  too.  &quot;What  is  there  to  see?&quot;  he  would  ask  her.  &quot;In  what  way  is  a  high  mountain  more  significant  than  a  low  hill?  How  is  the  ocean  a  greater  wonder  than  a  pond?&quot;  Even  though  Dr.  Zalkind  had  doubts  about  Philo's  philosophy  and  was  sometimes  inclined  toward  Spinoza's  pantheism  or  David  Hume's  skepticism,  he  had  accepted  Philo'sdisdain  for  the  deceptions  of  " b"flesh  and  blood.  He  had  come  to  New  York  with  the  decision  to  take  all  these  things  back  with  him  to  [REDACTED].  Yet,  how  could  he  carry  them  now  that  he  had  no  briefcase?  And  what  difference  did  it  make  where  they  were  kept?  How  strange.  On  the  way  to  the  air-  port  that  morning,  Zalkind  still  had  some  ambitions.  He  planned  to  make  final  corrections  on  his  manuscripts.  He  toyed  with  the  idea  of  looking  over  &quot;Philosophical  Fantasies&quot;  to  see  what  might  be  done  with  it.  He  had  sworn  to  himself  to  make  an  appointment  with  the  urologist  the  very  next  day.  Now  he  was  overcome  by  fatigue  and  had  to  lean  his  forehead  on  the  table.  He  fell  asleep  and  found  himself  in  a  temple,  with  columns,  vases,  sculptures,  marble  staircases.  Was  this  [REDACTED]?  4974616c79?  Alexandria?  A  tall  man  with  a  white  beard,  dressed  in  a  toga  and  sandals,  emerged.  He  carried  a  scroll.  He  recited  a  poem  or  a  sermon.  Was  the  language  Greek?  Latin?  No,  it  was  Hebrew,  written  by  a  scribe.  &quot;Peace  unto  you,  Philo  Judaeus,  my  father  and  master,&quot;  Dr.  Zalkind  said.  &quot;Peace  unto  you,  my  disciple  Uri,  son  of  Yedidyah.&quot;  &quot;Rabbi,  I  want  to  know  the  truth!&quot;  &quot;Here  in  the  Book  of  Genesis  is  the  source  of  all  truth:  'In  the  begin-  ning  God  created  the  heaven  and  the  earth.  And  the  earth  was  without  form,  and  void;  and  darkness  was  upon  the  face  of  the  deep.  And  the  Spirit  of  God  moved  upon  the  face  of  the  waters.&quot;  &quot;  Philo  intoned  the  words  like  a  read-  er  in  the  synagogue.  Other  old  men  entered,  withwhite  hair  and  white  beards,  wearing  white  robes  and  hold-  ing  parchments,  They  were  all  there-  the  Stoics,  the  Gnostics,  Plotinus.  Uri  had  read  that  Philo  was  not  well  versed  in  the  Holy  Tongue.  What  a  lie!  Each  word  from  his  lips  revealed  se-  crets  of  the  Torah.  He  quoted  from  the  Talmud,  the  Book  of  Creation,  the  Zohar,  Rabbi  Moshe  from  Cordoba,  Rabbi  Isaac  Luria.  How  could  this  be?  Had  the  Messiah  come?  Had  the  Res-  urrection  taken  place?  Had  the  earth  ascended  to  Heaven'  Had  Metatron  descended  to  the  earth?  The  figures  and  statues  were  not  of  stone  but  liv-ing  women  with  naked  breasts  and  hair  down  to  their  loins,.  Lotte  was  among  them.  She  was  also  Hilda.  One  female  with  two  bodies?  One  body  with  two  souls?  &quot;Uri,  my  beloved,  I  have  longed  for  you!&quot;  she  cried  out.  &quot;Idolators  wanted  to  defile  me,  but  I  swore  to  be  faithful.&quot;  In  the  middle  of  the  temple  there  was  a  bed  covered  with  rugs  and  pil-  lows;  a  ladder  was  suspended  along-  side  it.  Uri  was  about  to  climb  up  when  a  stream  of  water  burst  through  the  gate  of  the  temple.  Had  Yahweh  broken  his  covenant  and  sent  a  flood  upon  the  earth?  Uri  Zalkind  woke  up  with  a  start.  He  opened  his  eyes  and  saw  the  bank  clerk  shaking  his  shoulder.  &quot;Profes-  sor  Zalkind,  your  briefcase  has  been  found.  A  woman  brought  it.  She  opened  it  and  on  top  there  was  your  bankbook.&quot;  &quot;I  understand.&quot;  &quot;Are  you  sick?&quot;  the  clerk  asked.  He  pointed  to  a  wet  spot  on  the  floor.  It  took  a  long  while  before  Dr.  Zalkind  answered.  &quot;I'm  kaput,  that's  all.&quot;  &quot;It's  five  minutes  to  three.  The  bank  will  be  closing.&quot;  &quot;I  will  soon  go.&quot;  &quot;The  woman  with  the  briefcase  is  upstairs.&quot;  The  clerk  went  out,  leaving  the  door  half  open.  For  a  minute,  Dr.  Zalkind  sat  still,  numbed  by  his  own  indifference.  His  briefcase  was  found  but  he  felt  no  joy.  Beside  the  box,  Lotte's  jewelry  shim-  mered,  reflecting  the  colors  of  the  rain-  bow.  Suddenly  Dr.  Zalkind  began  to  fill  his  coat  pockets  with  the  jewels.  It  was  the  spontaneous  act  of  a  cheder  boy.  A  passage  from  the  Pentateuch  came  into  his  mind:  &quot;Behold,  I  am  at  the  point  to  die:  and  what  profit  shall  this  birthright  do  to  me?&quot;  Zalkind  even  repeated  Esau's  words  with  the  teach-  er's  intonation.  The  clerk  came  in  with  a  woman  who  carried  a  wet  mop  and  a  pail.  'Should  I  call  an  ambulance?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;An  ambulance?  No.&quot;  Zalkind  followed  the  clerk,  who  mo-  tioned  for  the  key.  It  was  underneath  Lotte's  jewelry,  and  Zalkind  had  to  make  an  effort  to  pull  it  out.  The  clerk  took  him  up  in  the  elevator,  and  there  was  the  woman  with  his  briefcase-  small,  darkish,  in  a  black  fur  hat  and  a  mangy  coat.  When  she  saw  Zalkind,  her  eyes  lit  up.  &quot;Professor  Zalkind!  I  went  to  make  a  telephone  call  and  saw  your  briefcase.  I  opened  it  and  there  with  your  papers  " b"was  your  bankbook.  Since  you  use  this  bank,  I  thought  they  would  know  your  address.  And  here  you  are.&quot;  The  woman  spoke  English  with  a  foreign  accent.  &quot;Oh,  you're  an  honest  person.  I  thank  you  with  all  my  heart.&quot;  &quot;Why  am  I  so  honest?  There  is  no  cash  here.  If  I  had  found  a  million  dollars,  the  Yetzer  Hore  might  have  tempted  me.&quot;  She  pronounced  the  Hebrew  words  as  they  did  in  [REDACTED].  &quot;It's  terrible  outside.  Maybe  you  should  take  him  somewhere,&quot;  the  guard  suggested  to  the  woman.  &quot;Where  do  you  live?  Where  is  your  hotel?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;I  heard  that  you  just  arrived  from  [REDACTED].  What  a  time  to  come  from  [REDACTED]  in  your  condi-  tion.  You  may,  God  forbid,  catch  the  worst  kind  of  cold.&quot;  &quot;I  thank  you.  I  thank  you.  I  have  no  hotel.  I  had  planned  to  stay  over  with  the  cousin  of  my  late  wife,  but  it  seems  her  telephone  is  out  of  order.&quot;  &quot;I  will  take  you  to  my  own  place  forthe  time  being.I  live  on  106th  and  [REDACTED].  It  is  quite  far  from  here,  but  if  we  get  a  taxi  it  won't  be  long.  My  dentist  moved  to  this  neigh-  borhood  and  that  is  why  I'm  here.&quot;  One  of  the  bank  employees  came  over  and  asked,  &quot;Should  I  try  to  get  a  taxi  for  you?&quot;  Even  though  it  wasn't  clear  whom  he  addressed,  Zalkind  replied,  &quot;Yes-I  really  don't  know  how  to  express  my  gratitude.&quot;  Other  clerks  came  over  with  offers  of  help,  but  Zalkind  noticed  that  they  winked  at  one  another.  The  outside  door  opened  and  one  of  them  called,  &quot;Your  taxi!&quot;  The  snow  had  stopped,  but  it  had  got  colder.  The  woman  took  Zal-  kind's  arm  and  helped  him  into  the  taxi.  She  got  in  after  him  and  said,  &quot;My  name  is  Esther  Sephardi.  You  can  call  me  Esther.&quot;  &quot;Are  you  a  Sephardi?&quot;  &quot;No,  a  Jewish  daughter  from  Lodz.  My  husband's  surname  was  Sephardi.  He  was  also  from  Lodz.  He  died  two  years  ago.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  have  children?&quot;  &quot;One  daughter  in  college,  Why  did  you  come  in  such  a  weather  to  New  [REDACTED];  Dr.  Zalkind  didn't  know  where  to  begin.  &quot;You  don't  need  to  answer,&quot;  the  woman  said.  &quot;You  live  alone,  huh?  No  wife  would  allow  her  husband  to  go  to  New  York  on  a  day  like  this.  You  won't  believe  me,  in  frost  worse  than  this  I  stood  in  a  forestin  [REDACTED]  andsawed  logs.  That's  where  the  Rus-  sians  sent  us  in  1941.  We  had  to  build  our  own  barracks.  Those  who  couldn't  make  it  died,  and  those  who  were  des-  tined  to  live  lived.  I  took  your  briefcase  with  me  to  the  Automat  to  get  a  cup  of  coffee  and  I  looked  into  your  papers.  Is  this  going  to  be  a  book?&quot;  &quot;Perhaps.&quot;  &quot;Are  you  a  professor?&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cI  Was'),  &quot;My  daughter  studies  philosophy.  Not  exactly  philosophy  but  psychology.  What  does  one  need  so  much  psychol-  ogy  for?I  wanted  her  to  study  fora  doctor  but  nowadays  children  do  what  they  want,  not  what  their  mother  tells  them.  For  twenty  years  I  was  a  book-  keeper  in  a  big  firm.  Then  I  got  sick  and  had  to  have  a  hysterectomy.  Dr.  Zalkind,  I  don't  like  to  give  you  ad-  vice,  but  what  you  have  should  not  be  neglected.  An  uncle  of  mine  had  it  and  he  delayed  until  it  was  too  late.&quot;  &quot;It's  too  late  for  me,  too.&quot;  &quot;How  do  you  know?  Did  you  have  tests  made?&quot;  The  taxi  stopped  in  a  half-dark  street,  with  cars  buried  under  piles  of  snow,  Dr.  Zalkind  managed  to  get  a  few  bills  from  his  purse  and  gave  them  to  Esther.  &quot;I  don't  see  so  well.  Be  so  good-pay  him  and  give  him  a  tip.&quot;  HE  woman  took  Zalkind's  hand  and  led  him  up  three  flights  of  stairs,  Until  now,  Professor  Zalkind  had  believed  that  his  heart  was  in  or-  der,  but  something  must  have  hap-  pened-after  one  flight  he  was  short  of  breath.  Esther  opened  a  door  and  led  him  into  a  narrow  corridor,  and  from  there  into  a  shabby  living  room.  She  said,  &quot;We  used  to  be  quite  wealthy,  but  first  my  husband  got  sick  with  cancer  and  then  I  got  sick.  I'm  work-  ing  as  a  cashier  during  the  day  in  a  movie  theatre.  Wait,  let  me  take  off  your  coat.&quot;  She  weighed  it  in  her  hands,  glanced  at  the  bulging  pockets,  and  asked,  &quot;W  hat  do  you  have  there-  stones?&quot;  After  some  haggling  she  took  off  his  shirt  and  pants  as  well.  He  tried  to  re-  sist,  but  she  said,  &quot;When  you  are  sick,  you  can't  be  bashful.  Where  is  the  shame?  We  are  all  made  from  the  same  dough.&quot;  She  filled  the  bathtub  with  hot  wa-  ter  and  brought  him  clean  underwear  and  a  robe  that  must  have  been  her  late  husband's.  Then  she  made  tea  in  the  kitchen  and  warmed  up  soup  from  a  can.  Professor  Zalkind  had  forgotten  that  he  had  had  nothing  to  eat  or  drink  since  breakfast,.  As  she  served  him,  Esther  kept  on  talking  about  her  years  in  Lodz,  in  [REDACTED],  in  New  York.  Her  father  had  been  a  rich  man,  a  part-  ner  in  a  textile  factory,  but  the  Poles  had  ruined  him  with  their  high  taxes.  He  grew  so  distraught  that  he  got  consumption  and  died.  Her  mother  lived  a  few  years  more  and  she,  too,  passed  away.In  [REDACTED]  Esther  became  sick  with  typhoid  fever  and  anemia.  She  worked  in  a  factory  where  the  pay  was  so  low  that  one  had  to  steal  or  starve.  Her  husband  was  taken  away  by  the  N.K.V.D.,  and  for  years  she  didn't  know  if  he  had  been  killed  in  a  slave-labor  camp.  When  they  finally  reunited,  they  had  to  wait  two  years  " b"in  [REDACTED]  in  a  D.P.  camp  for  visas  to  [REDACTED].  &quot;What  we  went  through  in  all  those  years  only  God  the  merci-  ful  knows.&quot;  For  a  moment,  Professor  Zalkind  was  inclined  to  tell  her  that  even  though  God  was  omniscient,  the  well  of  good-  ness,  one  could  not  ascribe  any  attribute  to  Him.  He  did  not  provide  for  man-  kind  directly  but  through  Wisdom,  called  Logos  by  the  Greeks.  But  there  was  no  use  discussing  metaphysics  with  this  woman.  After  he  had  eaten,  Dr.  Zalkind  could  no  longer  fight  off  his  weariness.  He  yawned;  his  eyes  became  watery.  His  head  kept  dropping  to  his  chest.  Esther  said,  &quot;I  will  make  you  a  bed  on  the  sofa.  It's  not  comfortable,  but  when  you  are  tired  you  can  sleep  on  rocks.  Ask  me.&quot;  &quot;I  will  never  be  able  to  repay  you  for  your  kindness.&quot;  &quot;&quot;We  are  all  human  beings.&quot;  Dr.  Zalkind  saw  with  half-closed  eyes  how  she  spread  a  sheet  over  the  sofa,  brought  in  a  pillow,  a  blanket,  pajamas.  &quot;I  hope  I  don't  wet  the  bed,&quot;  he  prayed  to  the  powers  that  have  the  say  over  the  body  and  its  needs.  He  went  into  the  bathroom  and  saw  him-  self  in  a  mirror  for  the  first  time  that  day.  In  one  day  his  face  had  become  yellow,  wrinkled.  Even  his  whitebeard  seemed  shrunken.  When  he  returned  to  the  living  room,  he  remembered  Hilda  and  asked  Esther  to  call  her.  Esther  learned  from  an  answering  service  that  Hilda  had  gone  into  a  hospital  the  day  before.  &quot;Well,  everything  falls  to  pieces,&quot;  Zalkind  said  to  himself.  He  noticed  a  saltshaker  that  Esther  had  neglected  to  take  from  the  table,  and  while  she  lingered  in  the  bathroom  he  put  some  of  the  salt  on  his  palm  and  swallowed  it,  since  salt  retains  water  in  the  body.  She  returned  in  a  house  robe  and  slippers.  She's  not  so  young  any-  more,  he  thought  appraisingly,  but  still  an  attractive  female;  in  spite  of  his  maladies  he  had  not  lost  his  manhood.  The  instant  he  lay  down  on  the  sofa  he  fell  into  a  deep  sleep.  This  is  how  he  used  to  pass  out  as  a  boy  on  Passover  night  after  the  four  goblets  of  wine.  He  awoke  in  the  middle  of  the  night  with  an  urgent  need  to  urinate.  Thank  God,  the  sheet  was  dry.  The  room  was  com-  pletely  dark;  the  window  shades  were  down.  He  groped  like  a  blind  man,  bumping  into  a  chest,  a  chair,  an  open  door.  Did  it  lead  to  the  bathroom?  No,  he  touched  a  headboard  of  a  bed  and  could  hear  someone  breathing.  He  was  overcome  with  fear.  His  hostess  might  suspect  him  of  dishonorable  intentions.  Eventually,  he  found  the  bathroom.  He  wanted  light  but  he  could  not  find  the  switch.  On  the  way  back,  in  the  corri-  dor,  he  accidentally  touched  the  switch  and  turned  on  the  light.  He  saw  his  briefcase  propped  against  the  wall,  his  coat  hanging  on  a  clothes  tree.  Yes,  Lotte's  jewelry  was  still  there.  He  had  fallen  into  honest  hands.  It  had  become  cold  during  the  night,  and  he  put  the  coat  on  his  shoulders  over  his  pajamas  and  took  the  briefcase  with  him  in  or-  der  to  place  the  jewelry  in  it.  He  had  to  smile-he  looked  as  if  he  were  going  on  a  journey.  I  will  give  it  to  this  good-  hearted  woman,  he  resolved.  At  least  a  part  of  it.  I  have  no  more  need  for  worldly  possessions,.  If  some  part  of  Lotte's  mind  still  exists,  she  will  forgive  me.  Suddenly  his  head  became  com-  pressed  with  heat  and  he  fell.  He  could  hear  his  body  thud  against  the  floor.  Then  everything  was  still.  PROFESSOR  ZALKIND  opened  his  eyes.  He  was  lying  on  a  bed  with  metal  bars  on  both  sides.  Above  the  bed  a  small  lamp  glimmered.  He  stared  in  the  semi-darkness,  waiting  for  his  mem-  ory  to  return.  An  ice  bag  rested  on  his  forehead.  His  belly  was  bandaged  and  his  hand  touched  a  catheter.  &quot;Am  I  still  alive?&quot;  he  asked  himself.  &quot;Or  is  it  already  the  hereafter?&quot;  He  felt  like  laughing,  but  he  was  too  sore  inside.  In  an  instant  everything  he  had  gone  through  on  this  trip  came  back  to  him.  Had  it  been  today?  Yesterday?  Days  before?  It  did  not  matter.  Although  he  was  aching,  he  felt  a  rest  he  had  never  known  before-the  sublime  enjoyment  of  fearing  nothing,  having  no  wish,  no  worry,  no  resentment.  This  state  of  mind  was  not  of  this  world  and  he  lis-  tened  to  it.  He  was  granted  the  revela-  tion  he  yearned  for-the  freedom  to  look  into  the  innermost  secret  of  being,  to  see  behind  the  curtain  of  phenom-  ena,  where  all  questions  are  answered,  all  riddles  solved.  &quot;If  I  could  onlycon-  vey  the  truth  to  those  who  suffer  and  doubt!&quot;  A  figure  slid  through  the  half-opened  door  like  a  shadow-the  woman  who  had  found  his  briefcase.  She  bent  over  his  bed  and  asked,  &quot;You  have  wak-  ened,  huh?&quot;  He  did  not  answer  and  she  said,  &quot;Thank  God,  the  worst  is  over.  You  will  soon  be  a  new  man.&quot;"