 b"EVERYONE  was  so  restless.  All  E  through  the  late-winter  days  and  on  through  the  first  thaw,  the  boy  Misha  dreamed  of  the  Passover  holidays,  It  was  then,  in  the  spring,  that  his  family  drove  to  the  mountains,  squeezing  into  the  old  black  family  sedan,  hoping  it  would  still  move.  Holi-  day  dresses  and  pressed  trousers  hung  from  wire  hangers  hooked  over  the  car  windows.  Air  whistled  through  the  window  cracks,  puffing  the  empty  suits,  as  the  car  picked  up  speed  on  [REDACTED],  rushing  through  the  trees  to  the  Cats-  kills.  Icicles  hung  from  pink  rock  walls  where  the  mountains  had  been  blasted  to  let  the  highway  pass.  &quot;And  now  if  you'll  take  off  your  shoes  and  nap,&quot;  his  grownup  brother  Tigran  would  say,  &quot;I'll  tell  you  some  stories.&quot;  Second  Avenue-theatre  music,  full  of  drum  rolls  and  clarinets,  played  softly  on  the  car  radio.  Tigran  told  stories  drawn  from  the  well  of  Sholom  Aleichem-stories  of  Kasrilevke,  of  Sheika  the  one-eyed  boy  who  knew  of  buried  treasure,  of  Esther  Libe,  her  face  a  stanza  from  the  Song  of  Songs.  He  told  about  the  Queen's  daughter,  kidnapped  from  under  her  wedding  canopy,  imprisoned  in  the  [REDACTED]  Palace  these  last  seven  years.  Outside  the  warm  car,  hotel  bill-  boards  streamed  past,  with  come-ons  in  fancy  lettering.  Men  in  pleated  golf  slacks  were  smiling,  swinging  from  the  heels,  frozen  in  a  painted  moment.  En-  larged  7-Up  bottle  caps  decorated  road-  side  stands.  Stacks  of  lounge  chairs  waited  by  empty  pools.  Tigran  told  Misha  of  the  Sambatyon  River,  churning  golden  and  fiery  six  days  a  week,  before  turning  cool,  like  a  mother's  arms,  on  Sabbath  Day.  He  said  that  real  explorers  had  searched  for  this  river,  which,  according  to  the  rabbis,  runs  through  a  hidden  corner  of  Europe,  through  [REDACTED]  or  [REDACTED].  Some  say  the  Ten  Lost  Tribes  live  on  the  other  side.  Tigran  smiled.  He  said  the  Sambatyon  River  really  runs  through  the  Catskill  hills,  alongside  [REDACTED],  all  the  way  to  the  village  of  Roscoe.  He  said  the  Ten  Lost  Tribes  live  in  bungalows  there,  by  the  banks  of  the  mystery  water.  Misha's  mother,  Malka,  cradled  her  son's  head  in  her  lap.  She  played  with  his  sidecurls,  ran  her  fingertips  over  his  eyebrows,  and  tried  to  lull  him  to  sleep.  She  told  him  he  would  have  to  be  well  rested  for  the  late-  night  Seder.  Tigran  had  finished  his  stories,  and  now  Malka  sang  to  her  young  son.  She  sang  a  lullaby,  half  to  herself,  in  a  voice  barely  audible  over  the  drone  of  the  highway  and  the  rumble  of  the  car:  In  the  quiet  of  a  farmhouse,  In  the  still  of  afternoon,  Sits  a  widow,  child  of  [REDACTED],  With  her  little  baby  Misha.  She  rocks  him  in  the  cradle.  Underneath  this  cradle  Sleeps  a  pure  white  calf  ;  This  calf  has  gone  a-wandering.  This  will  be  your  calling,  With  raisins  and  almonds.  Try  to  sleep,  try  to  dream.  SO  they  made  their  way  up  theold  [REDACTED].  There  were  patches  of  snow  in  the  ditches.  There  were  Jersey  cows  by  the  silos,  lazing  by  the  barn-  side,  swishing  tails  beside  the  burnt-out  winter  hay.  Malka,  not  knowing  if  the  child  was  asleep,  whispered,  &quot;Look,  honey.  Look  at  the  cows.&quot;  Misha  had  fallen  asleep.  Malka  stroked  his  face.  Her  fingers  smelled  of  soup  and  sugar.  In  his  sleep,  he  tasted  the  Passover  Seder,  the  leaving  of  [REDACTED].  He  fell  still  deeper,  beginning  to  dream  .  ..  In  the  fireplace  burns  a  small  red  coal  And  it's  hot  in  the  room  And  the  teacher  drills  the  children  in  the  alef-beys.  Remember,  children,  what  you  study  here.  Repeat  once  again,  &quot;K  omets-alef  :  aw!&quot;  And  again,  &quot;Komets-alef:  aw!  Alef:  aw!&quot;  Study,  children,  with  passion.  How  much  do  I  ask?  The  first  to  learn  to  read  will  win  a  flag.  AT  the  hotel  that  night,  Misha  felt  restless.  It  was  busy  and  noisy  in  the  many-floored  wooden  hotel.  After  the  holiday  meal,  young  men  and  women  played  charades  around  a  couch  in  the  corner  of  the  lobby.  In  the  casino,  a  heavily  mascaraed  wom-  an  sang  music-hall  songs.  While  the  busboyscleaned  up,  men  danced  Chas-  sidic  dances  around  the  bundled-up  tablecloths.  The  men  stamped  their  feet,  shaking  the  tables,  and  the  silver-  ware  jangled.  It  was  noisy  all  over  the  hotel.  .  Misha  was  put  to  bed.  Malka  kissed  him  and  turned  out  the  light.  The  door  to  his  room  was  closed.  Misha  un-  tucked  himself  and  ran  to  the  curtains.  Outside  his  window,  in  orchards  and  forests,  the  frosted  branches  sparkled  in  a  shower  of  stars.  In  less  than  a  mo-  ment,  he  had  flown  through  the  win-  dow,  floating  down  the  fire  escape.  He  wanted  to  find  the  Queen's  daughter,  the  Lost  Tribes,  the  Sambatyon  wa-  ter.  Sheika  showed  him  the  way-Sheika  from  Sholom  Aleichem,  Sheika  who  knows  Cabala,  Sheika  who  is  blind  in  one  eye.  'Take  [REDACTED]  north  until  the  highway  meets  the  mountain,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Then  walk  over  the  mountain  un-  til  you  come  to  Sackett  Lake.  Swim  across  the  lake  and  count  seven  times  seven.&quot;  Misha  followed  his  directions.  He  flew  through  the  heavens  in  the  hollow  of  the  night.  Mythological  lovers  em-  braced  in  constellations,  rolling  togeth-  er  from  the  morning  light  to  the  dark-  ness  in  the  west.  Bungalow  colonies  clustered  together,  as  if  for  warmth,  by  the  side  of  the  highway.  Headlights  and  tail-lights  on  [REDACTED]  flowed  ruby  and  golden  in  bursts  of  late-night  traf-  fic.  The  colors  reflected  in  the  bun-  galow  windows.  Clouds  massed  in  front  of  the  moon.  Misha,  standing  by  his  window,  shiv-  ered  and  crept  back  to  his  bed.  He  fell  asleep  listening  to  the  noises  in  the  ho-  tel.  The  singing  and  dancing  continued  till  dawn,  pouring  from  the  hotel  to  the  meadows.  Everyone  was  restless,  dancing  in  the  hills. "