 b"IT  was  one  of  those  sweltering  days toward  the  end  of  the  fiscal  year  when  [REDACTED]  smells  of  melt-  ing  asphalt  and  foundation  money  is  as  tight  as  a  rusted  nut.  Ninety-six,  the  radio  said  on  the  way  in  from  the  air-  port,  and  back  at  my  office  in  the  Acme  Building  I  was  trying  to  fan  the  memory  of  ocean  breezes  in  [REDACTED],  where  I  had  just  spent  two  days  at-  tending  a  conference  on  Midwestern  regionalism.  It  wasn't  working.  I  was  sitting  down,  jacket  off,  feet  up,  looking  at  the  business  end  of  an  air-conditioner,  and  a  numb  spot  was  forming  around  my  left  ear  to  which  I  was  holding  a  telephone  and  listening  to  Bobby  Jo,  my  secretary  at  the  Twin  Cities  Arts  [REDACTED],  four  blocks  away,  reading  little  red  numerals  off  a  sheet  of  paper.  We  had  only  two  days  before  the  books  snapped  shut,  and  our  administrative  budget  had  sprung  a  deficit  big  enough  to  drive  acar  through-a  car  full  of  accountants.  I  could  feel  the  deficit  spreading  a  dark  sweat  stain  across  the  back  of  my  best  blue  shirt.  &quot;Listen,&quot;  I  sputtered,  &quot;I  still  got  some  loose  bucks  in  the  publicity  bud-  get.  Let's  transfer  that  to  administra-  tion.&quot;  &quot;J.  S.,&quot;  she  sighed,  &quot;I  just  got  done  telling  you.  Those  loose  bucks  are  as  spent  as  an  octogenarian  after  an  all-  IT  was  one  of  those  sweltering  days     night  bender.  Right  now,  we're  us-  ing  more  red  ink  than  the  funny  pa-  pers,  and  yesterday  we  bounced  three  checks  right  off  the  bottom  of  the  ac-  count.  That  budget  is  so  unbalanced,  it's  liable  to  go  out  and  shoot  some-  body.&quot;  You  could've  knocked  me  over  with  a  rock.  &quot;Sweetheart,&quot;  I  lied  quietly,  hoping  she  couldn't  hear  my  heavy  breathing,  &quot;don't  worry  about  it.  Old  Jack  has  been  around  the  block  once  or  twice.  I'll  straighten  it  out.&quot;  &quot;Payday  is  tomorrow,&quot;  she  replied  sharply.  &quot;Twelve  noon.&quot;  HE  Arts  [REDACTED]  is  just  one  of  thir-  ty-seven  arts  organizations  I  ad-  minister,  a  chain  that  stretches  from  the  Anaheim  Puppet  Theatre  to  the  Title  IX  Poetry  Center  in  Bangor,  and  I  could  have  let  it  go  down  the  tubes,  but  hell,  I  kind  of  like  the  joint.  It's  an  old  National  Tea  supermarket  that  we  renovated  in  1976,  when  Bi-  centennial  money  was  wandering  around  like  helpless  buffalo,  and  it  houses  seventeen  little  shops-main-  ly  pottery  and  macrame,  plus  a  dulci-  mer-maker,  a  printmaker,  a  spatter  painter,  two  sculptors,  and  a  watering  hole  called  The  Barre.  This  is  one  of  those  quiet  little  joints  where  you  aren't  driven  crazy  by  the  constant  ring-ing  of  cash  registers.  A  nice  place  to  drink  but  you  wouldn't  want  to  own  it.  I  hung  up  the  phone  and  sat  fora  few  minutes  eyeballing  an  old  nine-by-  twelve  glossy  of  myself,  trying  to  get  inspired.  It's  not  a  bad  likeness.  Blue  pin-striped  suit,  a  headful  of  hair,  and  I'm  looking  straight  into  1965  like  I  owned  it,  and  as  for  my  line  of  work,  anyone  who  has  read  &quot;The  Blonde  in  204,&quot;  &quot;Close  Before  Striking,&quot;  &quot;The  Big  Tipper,&quot;  and  &quot;The  Mark  of  a  Heel&quot;  knows  that  I'm  not  big  on  ballet.  I  wasn't  real  smart  at  spotting  trends,  either.  The  private-eye  business  was  scraping  bottom.  I  spent  my  days  supporting  a  bookie  and  my  nights  tail-  ing  guys  who  weren't  going  anywhere  anyway.  My  old  pals  at  Jimmy's  were  trading  in  their  wingtips  and  porkpie  hats  for  Frye  boots  and  Greek  fisherman  caps  and  growing  big  puffs  of  hair  around  their  ears.  Mine  was  the  only  suit  that  looked  slept-in.  I  felt  like  writing  to  the  Famous  Shamus  School  and  asking  what  I  was  doing  wrong.  &quot;It's  escapism,  Mr.  Schmidt,&quot;  qua-  vered  Ollie,  the  elevator  boy,  one  morning  when  I  complained  that  no-  body  needed  a  snoop  anymore.  &quot;I  was  reading  in  the  Gazette  this  morning  where  they  say  this  is  an  age  of  anti-  intellectualism.  A  sleuth  like  yourself,  now,  you  represent  the  spirit  of  inquiry,  the  scientific  mind,  eighteenth-century  enlightenment,  but  heck,  people  don't  care  about  knowing  the  truth  any-  more.  'They  just  want  to  have  experi-  ences.&quot;  \xc2\xa9'Thanks  for  the  tip,  Ollie,&quot;  I  smiled,  flipping  him  a  quarter.  &quot;And  keep  your  eyes  open.&quot;  I  was  having  an  experience  myself  at  the  time  and  her  name  was  Trixie,  an  auburn-haired  beauty  who  moved  grown  men  to  lie  down  in  herpath  and  wave  their  arms  and  legs.  I  was  no  stronger  than  the  rest,  and  when  she  let  it  be  known  one  day  that  the  acting  studio  where  she  studied  nights  was  low  on  cash  and  might  have  to  close  and  thus  frustrate  her  career,  I  didn't  ask  her  to  type  it  in  triplicate.  I  got  the  dough.  I  learned  then  and  there  that  true  artists  are  sensitive  about  money.  Trixie  took  the  bundle  and  the  next  day  she  moved  in  with  a  sandal-maker.  She  said  I  wasn't  her  type.  Too  ma-  terialistic.  Evidently  I  was  just  the  type  that  every  art  studio,  mime  troupe,  print  gallery,  folk-ballet  company,  and  wind  ensemble  in  town  was  looking  for,  though,  and  the  word  got  around  fast:  " b"Jack  Schmidt  knows  how  to  dial  a  tele-  phone  and  make  big  checks  arrive  in  the  mail.  Pretty  soon  my  outer  office  was  full  of  people  with  long  delicate  fingers,  waiting  to  tell  me  what  mar-  vellous,  marvellous  things  they  could  do  if  only  they  had  ten  thousand  dollars  (minus  my  percentage).  It  didn't  take  me  long  to  learn  the  rules-about  twenty  minutes.  First  rule:  ten  thou-  sand  is  peanuts.  Pocket  money.  Any  arts  group  that  doesn't  need  a  hundred  grand  and  need  it  now  just  isn't  think-  ing  hard  enough.  My  first  big  hit  was  a  National  En-  dowment  for  the  Arts  grant  for  a  walkup  tap  school  run  by  a  dishwater  blonde  named  Bonnie  Marie  Beebe.  She  also  taught  baton,  but  we  stressed  tap  on  the  application.  We  called  the  school  'The  556e6974656420537461746573n  Conservatory  of  Jazz  Dance.  A  hundred  and  fifty  thousand  clams.  &quot;Seed  money&quot;  they  called  it,  but  it  was  good  crisp  lettuce  to  me.  I  got  the  Guild  of  Younger  Poets  fifty  thousand  from  the  Teamsters  to  produce  some  odes  to  the  open  road,  and  another  fifteen  from  a  lumber  tycoon  with  a  yen  for  haiku.  I  got  a  yearlong  folk-arts  residency  for  a  guy  who  told  Scandinavian  jokes,  and  I  found  wealthy  backers  for  a  play  called  &quot;Struck  by  Lightning,&quot;  by  a  non-literalist  playwright  who  didn't  write  a  script  but  only  spoke  with  the  director  a  few  times  on  the  phone.  Nobody  was  too  weird  for  Jack  Schmidt.  In  every  case,  I  had  met  weirder  on  the  street.  The  [REDACTED]  Anti-Dance  Ensemble,  for  example,  is  a  bunch  of  sweet  kids.  They  simply  don't  believe  in  performance.  They  say  that  &quot;audience&quot;  is  a  passive  concept,  and  they  spend  a  lot  of  time  picketing  large  corporations  in  protest  against  the  money  that  has  been  given  to  them,  which  they  say  comes  from  illicit  prof-  its.  It  doesn't  make  my  life  easier,  but  heck,  I  was  young  once,  too.  Give  me  a  choice,  I'll  takea  radical  dance  group  over  a  Renaissance-music  ensemble  any  day.  Your  average  shawm  or  sackbut  player  thinks  the  world  owes  him  a  goddam  living.  So  I  was  off  the  pavement  and  into  the  arts,  and  one  day  Bobby  Jo  walked  in,  fresh  out  of  St.  Cloud  State  Normal  and  looking  for  money  to  teach  interior  decorating  to  minority  kids,  and  she  saw  I  needed  her  more.  She  threw  out  my  electric  fan  and  the  file  cabinet  with  the  half-empty  fifth  in  the  third  drawer  and  brought  in  some  Mondrian  prints  and  a  glass-topped  desk  and  about  forty  potted  plants.  She  took  away  my  .38  and  made  me  switch  to  filter  cigarettes  and  had  stationery  printed  up  that  looks  like  it's  recycled  from  beaten  eggs.  &quot;Arts  Consultant,&quot;  it  says,  but  what  I  sell  is  the  same  old  hustle  and  muscle,  which  was  a  new  commodity  on  the  arts  scene  then.  &quot;What  your  arts  organizations  need  is  a  guy  who  can  askpeople  for  large  amounts  without  blushing.and  twisting  his  hankie,&quot;  I  told  her  one  day,  en  route  to  Las  Palmas  for  a  three-day  seminar  on  the  role  of  the  arts  in  rural  [REDACTED].  &quot;'Your  typical  general  manager  of  an  arts  organization  today  is  nothing  but  a  bagman.  He  figures  all  he  has  to  do  is  pass  the  hat  at  the  board  meeting  and  the  Throttlebottoms  will  pick  up  the  deficit.  The  rest  of  the  time  he  just  stands  around  at  lawn  parties  and  says  witty  things.  But  the  arts  are  changing,  Bobby  Jo.  Nowadays,  everybody  wants  arts,  not  just  the  rich.  It's  big  business.  Operating  budgets  are  going  right  through  the  ceiling.  All  of  a  sudden,  Mr.  Arts  Guy  finds  the  game  has  changed.  Now  he  has  to  work  for  the  money  and  hit  up  corporations  and  think  box  office  and  dive  in  and  fight  for  a  slice  of  the  government  pie,  and  it  scares  him  right  out  of  his  silk  jam-  mies.  That's  when  he  calls  for  Schmidt.&quot;  She  slipped  her  hand  into  mine.  I  didn't  take  her  pulse  or  anything,  but  I  could  tell  she  was  excited  by  the  way  her  breath  came  in  quick  little  gasps.  &quot;Now  anyone  who  can  spell  innova-  tive&quot;  can  apply  for  a  grant,  government  or  otherwise,&quot;  I  went  on,  &quot;but  that  doesn't  mean  that  the  bozo  who  reads  the  application  is  necessarily  going  to  bust  into  tears  and  run  right  down  to  Western  Union.  He  needs  some  extra  incentive.  He  needs  to  know  that  this  is  no  idle  request  for  funds  typed  up  by  somebody  who  happened  to  find  a  blank  application  form  at  the  post  office.  He  needs  to  know  that  you  are  counting  on  the  cash,  that  you  fully  expect  to  get  it,  and  that  if  you  are  denied  you  are  capable  of  putting  his  fingers  in  a  toaster.  The  arts  are  growing,  Bobby  Jo,  and  you  and  me  are  going  to  make  it  happen.&quot;  &quot;You're  a  visionary,  J.S.,&quot;  she  mur-  mured.  &quot;You  have  a  tremendous  over-  all  concept  but  you  need  a  hand  when  it  comes  to  the  day-to-day.&quot;  &quot;Speaking  of  ideas,&quot;  I  muttered  hoarsely,  and  I  pulled  thelap  blanket  up  over  our  heads.  Shewhispered  my  initials  over  and  over  in  a  litany  of  pas-  " b"sion.  I  grabbed  her  so  hard  her  ribs  squeaked.  IT  was  a  rough  morning.  After  Bob-  by  Jo's  phone  call,  I  got  another  from  the  Lawston  Foundry,  informing  me  that  Stan  Lewandowski's  sculpture,  &quot;Oppresso,&quot;  would  not  be  cast  in  time  for  the  opening  of  the  Minot  Perform-  ing  Arts  Center.  The  foundry  workers,  after  hearing  what  Lewandowski  was  being  paid  for  creating  what  looked  to  them  like  a  large  gerbil  cage,  went  out  on  strike,  bringing  the  sculpture  to  a  standstill.  I  wasted  fifteen  minutes  trying  to  make  a  lunch  date  with  Hugo  Groveland,  the  mining  heir,  to  discuss  the  Arts  [REDACTED].  He  was  going  away  for  a  while,  Groveland  said,  and  didn't  knowwhen  he'd  beback,  if  ever.  He  hinted  at  dark  personal  tragedies  that  were  haunting  him  and  suggested  I  call  his  mother.  &quot;She's  more  your  type,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;plus  she's  about  to  kick  off,  if  you  know  what  I  mean.&quot;  On  top  of  it,  I  got  a  call  from  the  director  of  our  dinner  theatre  in  upstate  [REDACTED].  He  had  been  irked  at  me  for  weeks  since  I  put  the  kibosh  on  &quot;Hed-  da  Gabler.&quot;  He  had  been  plumping  for  a  repertory  theatre.  &quot;Fine,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;As  long  as  you  make  it  'Fiddler  on  the  Roof,&quot;  'The  Sunshine  Boys,and  'Man  of  La  Mancha.&quot;  Now  he  was  accusing  us  of  lackirig  a  commitment  to  new  writers.  He  said  I  was  in  the  business  of  exploiting  talent,  not  de-  veloping  it.  &quot;Listen,  pal,&quot;  I  snarled.  &quot;As  a  di-  rector,  you'd  have  a  hard  time  getting  people  to  act  normal.  So  don't  worry  about  me  exploiting  your  talent.  Just  make  sure  you  have  as  many  people  in  the  cast  as  there  are  parts.  And  tell  your  kitchen  to  slice  the  roast  beef  thin.&quot;  So  he  quit.  I  wished  I  could,  too.  I  had  a  headache  that  wouldn't.  And  an  Arts  [REDACTED]  with  twenty-four  hours  to  live.  &quot;It's  a  whole  trend  called  the  New  Naivet\xc3\xa9,&quot;  offered  Ollie  when  I  asked  him  why  artists  seemed  to  hate  me,  on  the  way  down  to  lunch.  &quot;I  was  reading  in  the  Gazette  where  they  say  people  nowadays  think  simplicity  is  a  prime  virtue.  They  want  to  eliminate  the  middleman.  That's  you,  Mr.  Schmidt.  Traditionally,  your  role  has  been  thatof  abuffer  between  the  in-  dividual  and  a  cruel  world.  But  now  people  think  the  world  is  kind  and  good,  if  only  they  could  deal  with  it  directly.  They  think  if  they  got  rid  of  the  middleman-the  bureaucracy,  whatever  you  want  to  call  it-then  everything  would  be  hunky-dory.&quot;  &quot;Thanks,  Ollie,&quot;  I  said  as  the  ele-  vator  doors  opened.  &quot;Let's  have  lunch  sometime.&quot;  It  reminded  me  of  something  Bobby  Jo  had  said  in  a  taxicab  in  Rio,  where  we  were  attending  a  five-day  confer-  ence  on  the  need  for  a  comprehensive  system  of  evaluating  arts  information.  &quot;It's  simple,  J.S.,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;The  problem  is  overhead.  Your  fat  catswill  givemillions  to  build  an  arts  center,  but  nobody  wants  to  donate  to  pay  the  light  bill  because  you  can't  puta  plaque  on  it.  They'll  pay  for  Chippewa  junk  sculpture  but  who  wants  to  endow  the  janitor?&quot;  &quot;Speaking  of  endowments,&quot;  I  whis-  pered  hoarsely,  and  I  leanedover  and  " b"pressed  my  lips  hungrily  against  hers.  I  could  feel  her  earlobes  trembling  helplessly.  HE  mining  heir's  mother  lived  in  a  mansion  out  on  Mississippi  Drive.  The  carpet  in  the  hall  was  so  deep  it  was  like  walking  through  a  swamp.  The  woman  who  opened  the  door  inspected  me  carefully  for  infec-  tious  diseases,  then  led  me  to  a  sitting  room  on  the  second  floor  that  could've  gone  straight  into  the  Cooper-Hewitt  Museum.  Mrs.  Groveland  sat  in  a  wing  chair  by  the  fireplace.  She  looked  pretty  good  for  a  woman  who  was  about  to  make  the  far  turn.  &quot;Mr.  Smith,  how  good  of  you  to  come,&quot;  she  tooted,  offering  me  a  tiny  hand.  I  didn't  correct  her  on  the  name.  For  a  few  grand,  I'm  willing  to  be  called  a  lot  worse.  &quot;Sit  down  and  tell  me  about  your  arts  center,&quot;  she  con-  tinued.  &quot;I'm  all  ears.&quot;  So  were  the  two  Dobermans  who  sat  on  either  side  of  her  chair.  They  looked  as  if  they  were  trained  to  rip  your  throat  if  you  used  the  wrong  fork.  Usually,  my  pitch  begins  with  a  de-  scription  of  the  long  lines  of  art-starved  inner-city  children  bused  in  daily  to  the  Arts  [REDACTED]  to  be  broadened.  But  the  hounds  made  me  nervous-they  maintained  the  most  intense  eye  con-  tact  I  had  ever  seen  from  floor  level-  so  Iskipped  ahead  to  the  money  part.  I  dropped  the  figure  of  fifty  thousand  dollars.  She  didn't  blink,  so  I  started  talking  about  the  [REDACTED]'s  long-range  needs.  I  mentioned  a  hundred  thou.  She  smiled  as  if  I  had  asked  for  a  drink  of  water.  I  crossed  my  legs  and  forged  straight  ahead.  &quot;Mrs.  Groveland,&quot;  I  radiated.  &quot;I  hope  you  won't  mind  if  I  bring  up  the  subject  of  estate  planning.&quot;  &quot;Of  course  not,&quot;  she  radiated  right  back.  &quot;The  bulk  of  my  estate,  aside  from  the  family  bequests  and  a  lump-  sum  gift  to  the  Audubon  Society,  is  go-  ing  for  the  care  of  Luke  and  Mona  here.&quot;  At  the  word  &quot;estate,&quot;  the  Do-  bermans  seemed  to  lick  their  chops.  I  had  to  think  fast.  I  wasn't  about  to  bad-mouth  our  feathered  friends  of  the  forest,  or  Mrs.  Groveland's  family,  either,  but  I  thought  I  just  might  shake  loose  some  of  the  dog  trust.  I  told  her  about  our  Founders  Club  for  contribu-  tors  of  fifty  thousand  or  more.  Perhaps  she  could  obtain  two  Founderships-  one  for  each  Doberman.  &quot;Perhaps  it  would  take  a  load  off  your  mind  if  you  would  let  us  provide  for  Luke  and  Mona,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;We  could  act  as  their  trustees.  We  just  happen  to  have  this  lovely  Founders  Club  Kennel,  way  out  in  the  country,  where-&quot;  At  the  mention  of  a  kennel,  the  beasts  lowered  their  heads  and  growled.  Their  eyes  never  left  my  face.  &quot;Hush,  hush,&quot;  Mrs.  Groveland  scolded  gently.  &quot;Don't  worry,&quot;  she  as-  sured  me,  &quot;they  don't  bite.  Well,  hard-  ly  ever.&quot;  They  may  not  bite,  I  thought,  but  they  can  sue.  Then  Mona  barked.  Instantly,  I  was  on  my  feet,  but  the  dogs  beat  me  to  it.  The  sounds  that  came  from  their  throats  were  noises  that  predated  the  Lascaux  cave  paintings.  'They  were  the  cries  of  ancient  Doberman  souls  trying  to  break  through  the  thin  crust  " b"of  domestication,  and  they  expressed  a  need  that  was  far  deeper  than  that  of  the  Arts  [REDACTED],  the  artsin  general,  or  any  individual  artist  whom  I  would  care  to  know.  The  next  sound  I  heard  was  the  slam  of  a  panelled  oakdoor  closing.  I  was  out  in  the  hallway  and  I  could  hear  Mrs.  Groveland  on  the  other  side  saying,  &quot;Bad  Luke,  naughty  Mona!&quot;  The  woman  who  had  let  me  in  let  me  out.  &quot;They're  quite  protec-  tive,&quot;  she  informed  me,  chuckling.  If  a  jury  had  been  there  to  see  her  face,  I'd  have  altered  it.  When  I  got  back  to  the  office,  I  gathered  up  every  piece  of  correspon-  dence  in  our  National  Arts  Endow-  ment  file  and  threw  it  out  the  window.  From  above,  it  looked  like  a  motorcade  was  dueany  minute.  I  was  about  to  follow  up  with  some  of  the  potted  plants  when  the  phone  rang.  It  rang  sixteen  times  before  I  picked  it  up.  Be-  fore  Bobby  Jo  could  identify  herself,  I'd  used  up  all  the  best  words  I  know.  &quot;I'm  out,&quot;  I  added.  &quot;Through.  Done.  Kaput.  Fini.  The  End.  Cue  the  cred-  its.  I've  had  it.&quot;  &quot;J.S.,&quot;  she  began,  but  I  was  having  none  of  it.  &quot;I've  had  a  noseful  of  beating  mon-  ey  out  of  bushes  so  a  bunch  of  snivel-  ling  wimps  can  try  the  patience  of  tiny  audiences  of  their  pals  and  moms  with  subsidized  garbage  that  nobody  in  his  right  mind  would  pay  Monopoly  money  to  see,&quot;  I  snapped.  &quot;I'm  sick  of  people  calling  themselves  artists  who  make  pots  that  cut  your  fingers  when  you  pick  them  up  and  wobble  when  you  set  them  on  a  table.  I'm  tired  of  poets  who  dribble  out  little  teensy  poems  in  lower-case  letters  andI'm  sick  of  painters  who  can't  even  draw  an  out-  line  of  their  own  hand  and  I'm  finished  with  the  mumblers  and  stumblers  who  tell  you  that  if  you  don't  understand  them  it's  your  fault.&quot;  I  added  a  few  more  categories  to  my  list,  plus  a  couple  dozen  persons  by  name,  several  organizations,  and  a  breed  of  dog.  &quot;You  all  done,  J.S.?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;Because  I've  got  great  news.  The  Highways  Department  is  taking  the  Arts  [REDACTED]  for  an  interchange.  They're  ready  to  pay  top  dollar,  plus-you  won't  believe  this-to  sweeten  the  deal,  they're  throwing  in  6.2  miles  ofInter-  state  594.&quot;  &quot;Miles  of  what?&quot;  Then  it  clicked.  &quot;You  mean  that  unfinished  leg  of  594?&quot;  I  choked.  &quot;It's  been  sitting  there  for  years.  There  are  so  many  community  groups  opposed  to  it  that  the  Highways  De-  partment  doesn't  dare  cut  the  grass  that's  growing  on  it.  They  want  us  to  take  them  off  the  hook.  And  if  we  make  it  an  arts  space,  they  figure  it'll  fulfill  their  beautification  quota  for  the  next  three  years.&quot;  &quot;We'll  call  it  The  ArtsTrip!&quot;  I  exclaimed.  &quot;OrThe  ArtStrip!  The  median  as  medium!  Eight-lane  envi-  ronmental  art!  Big,  big  sculptures!  Action  painting!  Wayside  Dance  Areas!  Living  poetry  plaques!  Mile-  stones  in  556e6974656420537461746573n  Music!  Arts  parks  and  Arts  lots!  A  drive-in  film  series!  The  customized  car  as  556e6974656420537461746573n  genre!  The  customized  van  as  Arts-  mobile!  People  can  have  an  arts  ex-  perience  without  even  pulling  overonto  the  shoulder,  They  can  get  quality  en-  richment  and  still  make  good  time!&quot;  &quot;Speaking  of  making  time-&quot;  Her  voice  broke.  She  shuddered  like  a  turned-on  furnace.  Her  breath  came  in  quick  little  gasps.  I  don't  know  what's  next  for  Jack  Schmidt  after  the  Arts  Highway  is  fin-  ished,  but,  whatever  it  is,  it's  going  to  have  Jack  Schmidt's  name  on  it.  No  more  Mr.  Anonymous  for  me.  No  more  Gray  Eminence  trips  for  yours  truly.  A  couple  of  days  ago,  I  was  sitting  at  my  desk  and  I  began  fool-  ing  around  with  an  inkpad.  I  started  making  thumbprints  on  a  sheet  of  yel-  low  paper  and  then  I  sort  of  smooshed  them  around  a  little,  and  one  thing  led  to  another,  and  when  I  got  done  with  it  I  liked  what  I  saw.  It  wasn't  neces-  sarily  something  I'd  hang  on  a  burlap  wall  with  a  baby  ceiling  spot  aimed  at  it,  but  it  had  a  certain  definite  quality  that  art  could  use  a  lot  more  of.  I  wouldn't  be  too  surprised  if  in  my  next  adventure  I'm  in  a  loft  in  SoHo  solving  something  strictly  visual  while  Bobby  Jo  throws  me  smoldering  looks  from  her  loom  in  the  corner.  In  the  mean-  time,  good  luck  and  stay  out  of  dark  alleys. "