 b"THE  initial  motivation  for  under-  taking  this  work  was  the  hope  that  a  chronicle  of  1978  might  illuminate  our  own  time.  Certainly,  at  first  glance,  that  year  would  seem  to  have  much  in  common  with  this  one,  1979;  it,  too,  consisted  of  three  hundred  and  sixty-five  days,  the  earth  was  the  third  planet  from  the  sun  for  the  year's  entirety,  and  it  provided  a  wide  market  for  huge  yet  mysteriously  light  books  of  popular  history.  I  am  not  the  first  to  have  noticed  such  remark-  able  parallels.  Tyrell  Barkham-the  night  doorman  at  an  apartment  build-  ing  that  contains  a  dwelling  not  un-  known  to  this  historian-said  recently,  \xc2\xabSeventy-seven,  seventy-eight,  seventy-  nine-what  can  I  tell  you?  It's  the  same  old  story.&quot;  Unfortunately,  as  I  penetrated  the  shadows  of  the  past  more  deeply,  the  light  it  shed  on  the  present  became  ever  more  elusive,  un-  til  it  was  at  best  an  inter-  mittent  flicker  of  familiar-  ity.  Still,  what  I  discov-  ered  seemed  compelling  in  its  own  right-all  the  more  so  as  the  vision  of  my  own  perceptions  and  con-  clusions,  neatly  set  in  eleven-point  Caslon  Old  Face  on  attractively  mar-  gined  pages,  solidified  in  my  imagination,  more  and  more  resembling,  in  shape,  weight,  function,  future  public  weal,  and  eventual  personal  reward,  a  book.  I  pressed  on  with  my  work.  People  in  1978  lived  under  conditions  that  we  would  find  utterly  alien.  College  football  players  were  safe  in  the  environs  of  opposing  coaches.  &quot;The  Deer  Hunter&quot;  had  not  been  widely  released.  &quot;Teng  Hsizo-ping&quot;  had  no  generally  understood  meaning  beyond  the  noise  of  an  automobile  engine  malfunctioning.  (Three  orfour  unadorned  de-  clarative  sentences  in  a  row  had  the  same  literary  ring  that  they  have  now,  how-  ever.  Some  things  never     change.)  In  order  to  make  this  epoch-so  bizarre  and  yet  so  troubling-  ly  &quot;close&quot;  to  our  own-more  vivid  and  immediate  for  today'sreader,  I  de-  cided  to  focus  on  one  person's  life  as  a  kind  of  exemplum,  I  measured  every  likely  candidate  against  exigent  historio-  graphical  standards,  Did  he  have  a  nor-  mal  hairline?  Was  he  known  to  believe  that  you  shouldn't  just  throw  dollars  at  social  problems  in  the  hope  of  solving  them?  Did  he  play  at  least  one  racquet  sport?  Could  he  do  the  Disco  Duck?  Through  this  process  of  selection,  the  choice  was  narrowed  down  to  one  Thomas  Hugo  Kramer  III,  of  Great  Neck,  Long  Island,  who,  as  far  as  we  can  tell,  graduated  from  high  school  in  June  of  1978  and  entered  Yale  the  following  September.  His  will  be  the  shoulders  to  bear  the  burdensome  man-  tle  of  this  chronicle.  &quot;Tommy&quot;  Kramer  was  truly  rep-  resentative  of  his  era.  He  started  the  year  at  five  feet  eight  and  ended  it  at  five-ten,  thus  doubly  conforming  to  the   parameters  of  average  height  for  males  described  by  archivists  of  the  time.  We  can  assume  on  the  basis  of  dental  rec-  ords  that  have  crossed  the  intervening  gulf  of  weeks  that,  like  many  of  his  contemporaries,  he  experimented  brief-  ly  with  Pop  Rocks.  Furthermore,  his  short-lived  emotional  alliance  with  a  young  woman  known  to  us  today  only  as  &quot;Betty,&quot;  from  Oradell,  in  the  state  of  New  Jersey,  and  his  subsequent  travels  to  medical  specialists  on  the  is-  land  of  Manhattan&quot;  gave  his  life  a  scope  considerably  broader  than  that  of  many  of  his  time.  (New  Jersey  was  a  leg-of-lamb-shaped  area  east  of  Great  Neck.)  It  also  appears  evident  that  the  threads  of  Thomas  III's  personal  his-  tory  were  tightly  interwoven  with  the  major  national,  international,  and  me-  teorological  events  of  his  time-events  that  in  retrospect  take  on  the  criss-  crossed,  muted  hues  of  a  much-worn  tartan  muffler  of  the  period.  He  slipped  on  the  ice  no  fewer  than  three  times  after  a  celebrated  blizzard  in  February  of  1978.  The  aircraft  that  carried  the  " b"head  of  the  Israeli  government  from  his  own  country  to  the  American  capi-  tal  of  [REDACTED],  prior  to  an  intense  period  of  international  bargaining,  in  all  likelihood  flew  within  not  less  than  fif-  teen  miles  of  Thomas  III's  house  (a  typical  dwelling  of  &quot;four  walls  and  a  roof,&quot;  with  apertures  for  the  admission  of  daylight  and  air  and  for  human  egress  and  ingress).  And  when  in  the  spring  of  1978  important  treaties  involving  an  artificial  isthmus-spanning  waterway  connecting  the  Atlantic  and  Pacific  Oceans  was  approved  by  the  higher  body  of  the  American  legislature,  Thomas  III  was  not  dead.  Further-  more,  he  stayed  extraordinarily  close  to  the  cultural  pulsebeat  of  his  time:  we  know,  for  instance,  that  his  cousin  Laura,  of  Hewlett  (near  Great  Neck  on  the  same  forked  island  that  stretched  east-  ward  from  New  York  City  like  an  alligator  with  jaws  slightly  agape),  was  thesecretary  of  a  local  &quot;fan  club&quot;  celebrating  the  fame  of  a  con-  temporary  jongleur  hero  named  Wil-  liam  Joel.  Finally,  like  so  many  of  his  time,  Thomas  III  was  deeply  adjecti-  val-sublunary,  vertically  symmetrical,  non-arboreal,  and,  almost  invariably,  bipedal.     BEFORE  embarking  on  the  story  of  Thomas  III,  however,  I  must  say  a  few  words  about  the  methodological  obstacles  inherent  in  such  an  enterprise.  First,  there  is  the  unclear  and  conflict-  ing  evidence  regarding  dates.  For  in-  stance,  certain  documents  would  seem  to  indicate  that  Thomas  III  had  two  different  dates  for  a  &quot;freshman  mix-  er  at  Yale.&quot;  Numbers  are  as  important  to  the  historian  as  are  dates,  and  the  figures  that  come  down  to  us  from  1978  have  their  own  serious  vexations.  For  example,  the  local  Chamber  of  Commerce  publication  put  the  popula-  tion  of  Great  Neck  at  11,263,  while  records  from  the  Mayor's  office  indi-  catethat  it  was  11,200.  In  such  cases,  I  have  generally  used  the  lowest  figure,  knowing  that  the  people  of  1978  were  no  less  prone  to  exaggeration  than  we  are  today.\xc2\xae  Other  kinds  of  discrepancies  and  enigmas  abound.  We  know  that  young  Thomas  III  matriculated  at  Yale  in  the  fall,  yetthe  notes  of  admissions  directors  from  four  other  universi-  ties  show  that  the  boy  had  promised  to  attend  each  of  those  schools  if  ad-  mitted-promised  &quot;on  his  mother's  life,&quot;  in  two  instances.  On  the  larger  canvas,  we  have  indications  that  many  Americans  began  to  decorate  their  homes  with  the  artifacts  of  industry  and  commerce-zinc  laundry  sinks  in  bathrooms,  steam  tables  in  kitchens,  crane  operator's  seats  in  living  rooms,  fluorescent-lighting  fixtures  from  po-  2&quot;&quot;Terry  and  I  had  a  boss  time  last  night,&quot;  he  wrote  inhis  diary  on  the  day  after  the  dance,  while  on  the  same  day  a  certain  Theresa  Bu-  gliosi  said  in  a  letter  to  a  friend  at  Wellesley,  &quot;Went  to  the  mixer  at  New  Haven  with  creepy  Tom  last  night.  He  told  me  that  every  boy  from  Great  Neck  was  a  great  necker  and  boogied  all  over  my  feet.  Yuck.&quot;  No  doubt  there  is  a  simple  explanation  for  this  discrepancy,  but  it  has  been  lost  in  the  swirling  mists  of  time.  Humor.     lice-precinct  houses  in  hallways-but  we  have  no  idea  why  they  did  so.  Finally,  there  are  outright  blanks  in  our  knowledge.  For  instance,  the  sum-  mer  before  leaving  for  college  Thomas  III  apparently  spent  large  amounts  of  time  driving  in  his  car  (a  self-  propelled  internal-combustion-engine  vehicle)  around  the  streets  of  his  vil-  lage.  We  can  only  speculate  upon  the  nature  of  his  thoughts  during  this  spe-  cialized  but  customary  period  of  youth-  ful  Rastlosigheit.  These  inconsistencies  and  lacunae  have  made  it  necessary  for  me  in  the  writing  of  this  account  to  resort  fre-  quently  to  such  constructions  as  &quot;pre-  sumably,&quot;  &quot;probably,&quot;  &quot;perchance,&quot;  and  &quot;who  knows?&quot;  And  to  such  sen-  tences  as  &quot;Thomas  III's  father,  Thom-  as,  Jr.,  had  a  great  deal  of  trouble  com-  puting  the  earned-income  credit  on  his  1977  Internal  Revenue  Service  tax  forms,or  he  didn't.&quot;&quot;  On  the  other  hand,  the  life  of  any  epoch  is  filled  with  complexity  and  paradox,  even  for  those  who  live  in  its  midst.  The  only  cer-  tainty  in  any  person's  existence-today  as  in  the  glorious  yet  undistinguished,  lighthearted  yet  serious,  violent  yet  pa-  cific,  brief  yet  easily  rendered  inter-  minable  year  of  1978-is  that  it  will  one  day  come  to  an  end.  On  that  cheering  note  of  commonality,  I  should  like  to  begin  my  pursuit  of  the  phan-  toms  of  historical  order. "