 b"&quot; COMING  NEAR  To  You&quot;  is  rated  in  a  certain  way  because  of  some  fairly  routine  violence.  No  problem.  No  problem.  The  problem  of  violence  is  not  a  problem.  Routine  violence  is  routine-so  routine  that  it's  no  real  problem,  no  real  threat.  When  the  man  shows  the  wound  on  his  chest,  there  is  no  problem.  When  the  other  man  smiles  at  the  wound  on  the  man's  chest,  there  is  no  problem.  When  the  woman  takes  snapshots  of  the  wound  and  encourages  others  to  smile,  there  is  no  problem,  even  when  the  pictures,  the  snaps,  hundreds  of  them,  are  sold  on  the  streets,  on  the  corners,  in  the  places  where  people  stand  and  wait,  where  children  stand  and  wait.  No  problem.  The  opposite  of  a  problem.  The  negative  outline  ofa  problem,  a  joke  on  a  problem.  No  slowdown  or  holdup,  no  obstacle  to  everyone's  seeing  and  liking  it--the  wound,  the  smile  at  the  wound,  the  re-  production  of  the  wound,  and  the  smiles  and  distribution.  No  problem.  Some  people  will  take  a  test,  that's  all.  Selected  people  will  sit  quietly  and  see  &quot;Coming  Near  to  You,&quot;  and  then  they  will  sit  quietly  and  take  a  little  test.  They  will  come  to  a  room  we  have  set  aside.  They  will  come  in  the  side  entrance,  through  the  marble  ro-  tunda  that  was  so  expensive  to  build-  oh,  years  ago,  when  we  believed  in  marble  and  rotundas,  when  we  liked  the  way  feet  sounded  against  polished  floors.  People  will  be  led  in  the  side  door  because  during  the  hours  we  give  the  tests  the  main  entrance  is  closed.  How  we  used  to  love  it,  the  main  en-  trance!  How  we  used  to  love  it,  the  main  screen!  And  not  just  the  main  screen-tall  as  a  private  building-but  the  gold  tent  that  used  to  spread  or  seem  to  spread  out  from  the  space  above  the  screen,  that  used  to  spread  above  the  screen  and  protect  it,  each  fold  distinct-how  we  used  to  love  it!  But  peo-  ple  now  come  in  another  way,  see  another  set  of  de-  tails.  People  now  are  led  to  a  basement  area  that  is  very  secure,  and  they  stay  there  awhile,  that's  all,  They  wait  for  a  while;  they  wait  long  enough  for  an  edge  of  distance  to  form,  that's  all.  Then  they  answer  a  few  questions,  because  we  want  to  know  how  they  feel.  We  want  to  know  how  people  feel  when  the  women  am-  putate  the  foot  ofthe  dead  man.  It  is  routine,  the  amputation,  but  we  want  to  know  if  people  feel  the  need  for  it.  Did  it  seem  well  motivat-  ed?  Was  there  a  need  forthe  camera  to  hover  on  the  severing,  in  terms  of  the  development  of  the  theme  of  sepa-  ration,  etc.  etc.,  the  theme  of  bad  news,  etc.  etc.,  the  emphasis  on  awkward  movement,  etc.  etc.&quot;?  And  the  ro-  mance.  Was  the  romance  upsetting?  We  want  to  know  that.  Some  groups-  groups  of  girls  with  short  hair  done  in  a  little  flip,  cheerful  girls-might  find  the  romance  upsetting.  And  the  back-  ground.  Some  people  might  find  that  upsetting-streets  where  there  are  peo-  ple  with  parts  elongated  or  compressed,  shaped  out  of  the  normal.  We've  asked  every  sort  of  person.  We've  gone  right  up.  We  ask  them  every  kind  of  question.  Sometimes  they  don't  want  to  answer,  but  not  too  of-  ten.  We  follow  them  to  their  homes.  We  sit  down  to  talk  honestly:  &quot;Do  you  honestly  feel  that  it  was  well  mo-  tivated,  the  way  people  on  the  street  were  compressed  and  elongated  and  shaped  out  of  the  normal?  Was  it  an  essential  element  in  the  forward  move-  ment  of  the  plot?&quot;  Some  people  don't  have  the  wit  to  answer  honestly.  The  education  they  have!  Nothing.  They  barely  know  their  own  name.  We  ask  again  and  again.  &quot;Is  that  really  your  name?&quot;&quot;  we  ask.  We  ask  to  see  three  pieces  of  identification.  Driver's  license,  major-department-store  charge  card,  and  something  from  their  church.  Then  we  say,  &quot;Thank  you,&quot;  because  we  are  polite  and  serious,  and  then  we  do  followup  work,  after  the  special  showing.  N  TER  the  special  showing,  we  empty  the  theatre  row  by  row.  That's  the  way  we  do  it.  Row  A,  Row  B,  etc.  etc.  Then  we  can  measure  the  stress,  We  watch  them  very  closely.  Sometimes  when  it  comes  to  a  writ-  ten  test,  people  are  very  shy  about  admitting  that  they  were  under  stress-&quot;Doesn't  make  any  difference  to  me  what  shape  people  are,&quot;  they  say-but  if  you  watch,  their  hand  trembles  a  little  and  the  movement  of  their  eye  is  a  little  out  of  the  normal,  and  all  that  can  be  monitored  if  you  are  careful  and  empty  the  theatre  row  by  row.  We  know  &quot;Coming  Near  to  You&quot;  produces  stress.  Row  after  row,  these  people  in  the  theatre  were  under  stress.  People  in  the  theatre  were  under  stress  watching  people  in  the  film.  We  know  it.  The  woman  named  Jaycinette,  for  instance-she  was  under  stress.  And  people  i\xc2\xbb  the  film.  Some  of  the  people  in  the  film,  paid  to  be  in  the  film,  the  dress  extras  and  so  forth-some  of  these  people  seemed  upset  to  be  exposed  to  what  was  going  on.  They  were  un-  der  stress,  you  could  tell.  Jaycinette  was  under  stress,  you  could  tell.  She  took  her  pencil  and  gouged  the  point  deep  into  her  test.  She  put  her  hand  to  her  neck  and  twisted  her  necklace  just  like  the  people  in  the  movie  when  they  were  under  stress.  Like  Sally  Herley.  Miss  Herley,  who  is  doing  so  well,  who  will  do  anything,  anything  on  film,  and  not  complain-she  was  under  stress,  you  could  tell.  Jaycinette,  in  the  per-  fectly  comfortable  interview  situation  where  she  had  to  spend  a  little  time-  Jaycinette  put  her  hand  to  her  neck  just  the  way  Sally  Herley  did  in  the  movie.  It  was  the  same  thing.  Jayci-  nette  was  wearing  a  necklace-that  was  the  only  difference.  Jaycinette  had  a  necklace  spelling  out  &quot;Jaycinette&quot;  in  an  inexpensive  gold-tone  material-that  was  the  only  difference.  It  spelled  out  &quot;Jaycinette&quot;  when  she  kept  her  hands  quiet,  but  under  stress  she  twisted  the  necklace  and  it  didn't  make  any  sense  at  all.  That  was  the  only  difference.  &quot;Coming  Near  to  You&quot;  had  to  be  rated  in  a  certain  way  because  of  the  stress.  With  all  that  stress,  &quot;Com-  ing  Near  to  You,&quot;  despite  the  hope  at  the  end,  the  way  people  crawl  back  on  top  and  wave,  the  way  they  fit  their  shapes  together  and  wave,  the  way  the  music  comes  on  so  you  don't  notice  the  problems  in  the  theatre,  the  shredded  fabric  on  the  seats,  etc.,  the  falling  plas-  ter,  etc.-despite  the  hope  at  the  end,  it  had  to  be  rated  in  a  certain  way.  "