 b"THE  quality  of  miracles  has  de-  clined  over  the  years.  In  Ade-  laide,  a  flat  city,  &quot;the  city  of  churches,&quot;  we  all  went  around  on  bikes.  I  am  speaking  here  of  the  mid-  nineteen-fifties,  My  father,  for  ex-  ample,  rode  an  Elliott.  It  was  a  heavy  machine,  bottle  green,  with  leather  cleaning  bands  rolling  around  the  hubs,  silver-frosted  handlebars,  and  a  seat  sprung  with  two  thick  coils  like  hair  curlers.  My  father  with  his  gray  face  and  his  pitted  bike  clips:  arriving  home  after  the  Magill  Road  climb,  he'd  lean  thebike  under  the  grapevine  and  rest  in  the  darkened  kitchen  with  a  sarsaparil-  la.  It  was  a  three-mile  ride  from  where  he  worked.  Yet-and  I  still  believe  this-our  bikes  and  the  pedalling  past  dry  hedges  somehow  signify  the  pe-  riod,  the  white  light  and  optimism  of  the  fifties.  They  fit  in  very  well.  The  man  across  the  street  subscribed  to  The  Saturday  Evening  Post.  Things  just  seem  more  complicated  now.  I  said  Adelaide  is  a  flat  city,  Well,  it  is  and  it  isn't.  It  looks  flat  on  the  map  or  from  the  air,  but  the  wide  intersect  ing  streets  contain  an  inbuilt  slope  of  private  dimensions,  barely  perceptible,  often  invisible  to  the  naked  eye.  The  city  center  is  located  halfway  between  the  sea  and  the  perpetual  purple  back-  drop,  the  Adelaide  Hills  Our  days  consisted  of  coasting  into  the  hot  empty  air,  then  pushing  slowly  back  toward  the  hills.  Magill  Road  here  was  a  clas-  sic.  It  ran  from  the  foothills  to  town,  about  four  or  five  miles,  straight  and  smooth,  wide  and  harmless-looking.  But  try  cycling  upone  day.  It  was  on  Magill  Road,  about  a  third  of  the  way  down,  that  I  saw  the  ac-  cident.  I  was  one  of  the  few.  Denis  Hedley  was  considered  a  smart-aleck.  His  bike  was  an  Elliott,  like  my  father's,  but  he  had  stripped  it  of  the  mudguards  and  painted  the  frame  canary  yellow  and  black.  Around  the  wheel  rims  he'd  painted  a  checkered-  flag  pattern,  which  at  low  speed  made  old  people  dizzy.  But  its  most  conspicu-  ous  feature,  and  the  thing  that  attract,  ed  ridicule,  was  a  plastic  aeroscreen  he'd  fitted,  as  on  a  racing  motorbike,  over  the  handlebars.  The  handlebars  were  black  and  horizontal,  also  like  a  motorbike's.  Hedley  had  made  them  from  a  piece  of  pipe.  Closer  inspec-  tion-though  we  tried  not  to  give  Hed-  ley  the  satisfaction-revealed  other  significant  modifications.  Every  possible  strut  and  clamp,  even  the  bell,  the  wing  nuts,  and  parts  of  the  pipe  frame  had  been  drilled  with  holes  to  save  weight.     Hedlev  was  too  smart  totalk  much,  but  he  confided  casually  one  day  it  gave  him  extra  speed.  And  it  was  a  blurred  yellow-and-black  fact  that  he  domi-  nated  the  upper  reaches  of  Magill  Road.  Crouched  behind  the  aeroscreen,  legs  pumping  like  wheels,  Hedley  would  streak  past  trams  and  the  small  British  sedans  at  thirty-five  or  even  forty-five  miles  an  hour  and,  reaching  the  Burnside  Road  intersection,  which  is  near  our  street,  would  suddenly  sit  up  and  coast  no-hands,  sometimes  combing  his  hair  or  scratching  the  small  of  his  back.  Then  he'd  brake,  turn  around,  and  laboriously  climb  back  for  another  run.  That  was  how  afternoons  were  spent  in  Adelaide.  He  was  thick-  necked  and  of  course  had  pimples  and  oily  hair.  He  wore  tight  khaki  shorts.  Hedley  was  also  well  known  for  his  fourteen-year-old  sister,  Glenys.  She  had  damp  hands  and  a  cowlike  smile.  She  was  the  first  girl  in  our  district  to  suddenly  begin  wearing  a  brassiere.  On  this  particular  morning,  my  chain  had  come  off  and  I  was  squatting  down  by  the  footpath.  It  was  a  quiet  Sunday,  hot;  not  many  cars.  As  I  say,  I  was  one  of  the  few  to  see  everything.  I  hap-  pened  to  look  up  as  Hedley  went  past.  He  had  Glenys  sitting  sideways  on  the  top  bar-something  I  had  not  seen  be-  fore.I  could  see  they  were  going  too  fast.  Hedleyseemed  to  be  struggling  with  the  handlebars;  Glenys  was  rig-  id,  holding  too  hard.  As  theypassed  No.  1839  Magill  Road-and,  oddly  enough,  I  realize  now,  that  was  the  year  the  bicycle  was  invented-Hed-  ley's  specially  lightened  frame  appeared  to  buckle  slightly,  or  fold,  and  because  of  his  indiscriminate  drilling  this  placed  sudden  strain  on  the  brake  strut.  It  snapped.  It  had  been  drilled  too  much. The  back  wheel  then  slid  forward,  throwing  the  chain  and  all  hope  of  braking.  What  followed  could  only  be  called  a  chain  reaction.  The  atrophied  pipes  of  Hedley's  bike,  the  drilled  and  countersunk  sprockets  and  levers  all  be-  gan  cracking  and  splitting,  the  little  aeroscreen  flew  into  the  air,  bits  of  broken  metal  and  spokes  fell  off  and  jumped  all  over  empty  Magill  Road  like  black  sparks.  The  machine,  no  longer  a  bicycle,  began  weaving  and  contracting,  approaching  the  intersec-  tion.  And  then  from  behind  came  Board-  man  (that  rings  a  bell  for  me!)  on  his  mauve  Healing.  It  was  the  latest  mod-  el,  with  alloy  guards,  three-speed  gears;  Boardman  was  the  local  Healing  deal-  er.  As  usual,  he  was  riding  with  a  light-  ed  cigarette,  With  superb  balance  and  strength  forathin  man  in  h's  forties,  with  tremendous  cool,  he  rode  in  close  and,  pedalling  intop,  lifted  Glenys  off  and  onto  his  serene  handlebars.  By  then  Hedley's  tangle  was  almost  at  ground  level,  still  sparking  at  high  speed,  and  Hedley  hadone  leg  trailing,  Again  Boardman  leaned  over  and  down,  this  time  more  like  a  polo  player,  and  grabbed  Hedley  by  the  collar,  support-  ing  the  careering  machine  and  halting  further  disintegration,  while  with  the  other  hand  he  applied  the  chrome-  plated  brake  calipers  on  the  Healing,  weaving  to  a  halt  acrossthe  intersec-  tion.  At  the  last  second  Hedley  lost  his  grip.  His  bike  somersaulted  in  the  clar-  ity  of  that  Sunday  morning,  snapped  around  the  veranda  post  of  Townsend's  corner  shop,  and  lay  in  two  or  three  pieces.  Glenys's  blouse  was  badly  torn;  I  could  see  her  ochre  brassiere.  She  immediately  began  swearing  at  her  brother,  and  Irealized  she  had  grown  up.  She  was  no  longer  a  girl.  Hedley  stood  there,  one  shoe  miss-  ing,  surveying  the  wreck.  Boardman  lit  up  another  cigarette,  waved,  and  rode  off,  I  have  not  seen  anything  like  it  since.  Boardman  is  dead  now,  and  I  don't  know  if  they  make  Elliotts  any-  more.  Hedley  and  his  sister  must  still  be  alive,  grown  up.  My  father  is  dead.  A  Shell  service  station  hasreplaced  Town-  send's  corner  shop,  and  the  intersection  has  been  fitted  with  lights.  "