 b"THERE  are  three  women  from  my  childhood  who  haunt  me,  who  keep  coming  back,  almost  like  spectres,  to  retell  their  tale.  They  represent  defiance,  glamour,  and  2  kind  of  innocence  that  I  find  absent  from  my  later  world.  They  were  all  tall,  and  if  I  had  to  liken  them  to  any-  thing  it  would  be  to  those  paintings  of  winter  trees  with  scarcely  a  leaf  left  and  a  wind  about  to  blow  them  down.  Indeed,  in  that  part  of  Ireland  the  wind  played  havoc  with  the  trees.  The  first  of  themwent  periodically  mad,  and  one  day  during  one  of  those  bouts  she  walked  into  our  kitchen  wielding  an  ash  plant.  Our  back  door  was  always  open,  and  there  was  a  Wel-  lington  boot  to  it  to  keep  it  ajar.  She  was  called  Mabel,  and  at  once  she  struck  out  at  everything  she  could  see.  Her  consummate  anger  was  vented  on  our  pale  wooden  dresser,  and  I  worried  forthe  beautiful  plates  that  were  wedged  in  along  the  back.  They  were  plates  that  my  mother  had  won  at  a  carnival  in  Coney  Island  long  before.  They  were  the  nicest  thing  in  the  whole  kitchen.  They  were  white  china  plates  with  a  different  flower  on  each  one.  The  plate  I  loved  most  had  a  strange  spiral  flower  that  was  not  like  the  flowers  that  grew  in  the  fields.  I  feared  for  all  of  them  but  principally  for  it,  Mabel  lashedout  and  said  that  they  were  dirty,  filthy,  said  that  the  whole  place  was  a  dive  and  full  of  muck  and  that  she  was  going  to  see  to  it  that  we  cleaned  our  premises.  I  went  in  under  the  table,  a  place  I  often  re-  sorted  to,  and  where  pups  or  dogs  often  followed.  Once,  I  believe,  I  had  got  bitten  by  a  hound  there  and  had  suf-  fered  serious  consequences  because  of  a  septic  gland  on  the  neck,  which  had  to  be  operated  on;  but  nevertheless  a  hiding  place  was  a  hiding  place  and  safer  than  the  big  space  of  the  tiled  kitchen,  what  with  its  slipperiness  and  its  dark-green,  distempered  walls  with  the  holy  pic-  tures  that  spoke  of  agonyand  woe.  So  Mabel  went  on  expressing  her  dislike  of  our  way  of  life,  of  my  moth-  er's  brown  bread-she  made  horrible  faces,  as  if  she  were  taking  cascara-  of  the  oilcloth  on  the  table,  of  the  dust  in  the  brown  corduroy  cushions  on  the  lounge  chair.  As  far  as  we  knew,  her  own  house  was  a  pigsty.  She  lived  there  with  her  two  brothers  and  an  invalid  mother,  and  no  one  ever  cleaned  it.  The  veterinary  surgeon  used  to  say  that  he  had  to  fumigate  himself  after  he  had  been  to  their  back  kitchen  to  get  hot  water  or  his  fee.  Their  house  was  called  Waterpark,  and  there  was  a  river  nearby.  It  flooded  in  the  winter,  and  their  fields  were  swampy.  They  had  an  old  piano  in  the  sitting  room,  and  there  they  kept  bags  of  sugar  and  flour  and  also  a  machine  in  which  they  pulped  mangels  and  turnips.  Their  voices  were  forever  raised.  That  was  all  we  knew  about  them,  and  when  we  children  had  occasion  to  pass  their  gateway  we  would  run,  and  tell  each  other  thatthe  maddies  had  come  to  catch  us.  Her  brother  Dinny  used  to  chase  girls  and  ask  them  into  the  kitch-  en  garden  for  sugarplums,  even  when  plums  were  not  in  season.  He,  too,  used  to  be  carted  to  the  asylum.   Now  Mabel  was  in  our  house  and  behaving  as  if  she  were  a  governess,  as  if  she  had  a  right  to  open  cupboards  and  object  to  spilled  sugar  or  spilled  oatmeal  and  to  say  &quot;disgusting,&quot;  and  repeat  it  until  she  was  singing  it  on  a  very  high  wavery  note.  It  was  justas  well  we  did  not  own  a  piano  or  have  our  concertina.  The  local  sergeant  had  borrowed  it  for  a  wedding.  My  mother  calmed  her  by  sitting  her  down  in  the  lounge  chair  and  giving  her  a  mug  of  tea  and  cake.  It  was  a  marble  cake,  and  Mabel  marvelled  at  the  three  colors  that  composed  each  slice.  They  were  like  a  painting,  with  more  brown  than  green  and  the  plain  egg  color  in  the  center  acting  as  a  bar-  rier  between  the  two  other  tempting  colors.  My  mother  then  showed  her  the  green  essence  that  she  had  used,  and  suddenly  Mabel  became  soft-  spoken  and  our  house  became  the  love-  liest  nest  in  the  world.  She  brooded  for  a  moment  as  she  chewed.  She  chewed  very  determinedly,  as  if  she  were  tasting  each  crumb.  She  was  a  thin  creature,  and  she  wore  high-  heeled,  laced  brogues.  All  of  a  sudden,  she  ventured  to  say  that  her  mother  and  father  should  nev-  er  have  married  because  they  were  mis-  fits.  She  said  that  her  mother  had  only  married  him  because  he  had  given  her  &quot;coaxyorum.&quot;  My  mother  asked  what  that  was,  and  Mabel  lowered  her  head  and  pointed  to  the  little  bottle  of  essence  and  asked  if  she  could  have  a  drop.  After  taking  a  spoonful  of  green  syrup,  she  was  all  soppy  and  babyish,  rubbing  her  chest  in  slow  circular  strokes.  &quot;Coaxyorum,&quot;  she  said,  was  like  that.  Long  ago,  her  father  had  got  up  on  a  ladder,  had  gone  into  her  mother's  bedroom,  had  given  her  moth-  er  this  potion,  and  beforeshe  knew  where  she  was  the  mother  was  being  carried  down  the  ladder  and  into  a  sidecar  and  off  to  the  father's  house-  in  fact,  to  Waterpark.  Her  mother's  family  had  disowned  her  and  never  spoke  to  her  again.  Mabel  became  so  happy  that  at  dusk  she  refused  to  go  home.  My  mother  bribed  her  by  puttinga  hunk  of  cake  in  clean  greaseproof  paper  and  by  giving  her  a  pom-pom  that  she  had  taken  a  fancy  to,  but  she  would  not  budge.  I  remember  how  she  clung  to  the  brown  polished  bars  of  the  lounge  chair  when  our  hired  man  tried  to  rouse  her,  and  eventually  he  had  to  threaten  her  with  the  poker,  for  by  now  we  were  her  dire  enemies  again  and  our  house  was  a  pigsty.  She  flounced  off,  threw  the  cake  on  the  cement  flags  outside,  trampled  " b"on  it,  and  got  into  the  cart  the  hired  man  had  brought  round,  shouting  with  the  utmost  vehemence,  &quot;We  don't  need  you,  we  don't  need  you,  we  don't  bloody  need  you!&quot;  The  last  I  saw  of  her,  she  was  standing  in  the  cart  and  then,  as  he  got  the  mare  into  a  gallop,  falling  down,  but  all  the  while  continu-  ing  her  shout  of  defiance.  &quot;We  don't  need  you,  we  don't  bloody  need  you!&quot;  THE  next  of  these  women  was  my  godmother,  Nancy,  a  dream  fig-  ure  in  a  long  motor  coat  and  dangling  from  her  arm  a  lizard  handbag  with  a  beautiful  amber  clasp.  I  can  even  now  hear  it  being  opened  and  shut  as  she  would  take  out  her  cigarette  case  or  her  lace-edged  hankie,  or  look  in  it  for  no  reason-though  perhaps  it  was  to  gaze  in  the  little  mirror  in  the  side  pocket.  Every  time  she  came  to  our  house,  she  brought  her  own  box  cam-  era,  so  her  visits  and  her  lovely  clothes  are  all  perpetuated,  though  many  of  them  have  come  out  blurred.  She  was  a  flirt.  I  did  not  know  all  that  it  meant,  but  I  knew  that  she  was  a  flirt.  She  would  look  at  men,  she  would  drink  them  in,  and  then  make  a  movement,  or  a  flurry  of  movements,  with  her  swallow,  and  she  would  gulp  as  if  it  were  sherbet  or  lemonade  or  some-  thing  fizzy.  She  came  to  our  house  whenever  there  was  a  dress  dance  in  the  village  and  she  would  arrive  a  day  or  two  before  and  stay  a  day  or  two  after.  The  day  before,  she  would  put  cat-  meal  packs  on  her  face  and  then  a  beaten  egg  white,  and  my  mother  and  she  would  laugh  and  pose  as  they  tried  on  her  clothes.  She  always  brought  an  attach\xc3\xa9  case  full  of  style.  There  would  be  at  least  two  dance  dresses,  her  fur  stole  with  the  dark  stripes  that  seemed  in  danger  of  coming  alive  or  purring,  two  or  three  purses,  dance  shoes,  and  a  beautiful  perfume  spray.  I  would  be  let  hold  it  in  my  hand,  let  squeeze  its  soft,  thick  rubber  nozzle,  and  presently  the  air  of  the  room  would  be  imbued  with  this  near-religious  smell  and  I,  at  least,  was  transported  elsewhere.  Sometimes  she  brought  clothes  that  were  on  approval,  and  these,  being  new,  were  the  most  cov-  eted  and  the  most  beautiful.  She  brought  an  Astrakhan  coat  that  she  and  my  mother  took  turns  trying  on,  and  they  must  have  tried  it  on  ten  or  fif-  teen  times  one  wet  morning.  Then  I  was  allowed  to  try  it  on,  but  at  once  had  to  take  it  off,  because  it  was  trail-  ing  along  the  floor  and,  what  with  their  diversion,  the  floor  had  not  been  swept  that  day  and  the  tiles  were  smudged  from  the  dogs  and  the  men.  It  suited  Nancy  best.  Her  hair  was  auburn  and  " b"copious,  and  this  brown  curly  Astrakhan  was  a  perfect  complement  to  it.  She  always  brought  her  curling  tongs,  and  when,  before  a  dance,  she  started  to  curl  her  hair  she  would  sometimes  threaten  to  put  my  nose  between  the  two  warm  pincers.  Then  her  eyes  would  narrow  and  she  would  laugh,  and  indeed  she  was  inscrutable.  She  and  my  mother  often  discussed  possible  marriages,  though  she  could  see  from  my  mother's  life,  and  infer  from  their  conversation,  that  marriage  was  not  an  ideal  state.  Still,  each  new  man  that  came  to  the  neighborhood  was  a  source  of  supreme  interest  to  her.  Not  many  new  men  came,  but  from  time  to  time  there  was  a  change  of  staff  at  the  bank  or  at  the  creamery,  or,  more  rarely,  a  new  curate.  In  these  men  she  manifested  great  interest  be-  fore  she  had  met  them  at  all  or  had  any  inkling  what  they  looked  like.  The  lo-  cal  county  councillor  was  too  staid  for  her,  but  my  father  would  insist  that  he  was  a  good  catch,  had  good  land  and  a  stock  of  cattle.  Nancy  dreamed  of  be-  ing  a  receptionist  in  a  grand  hotel,  of  making  friends  with  people  from  differ-  ent  walks  of  life  and  being  snatched  up  by  a  foreign  count  or  baron.  She  was  lazy  and  stayed  in  bed  till  noon.  I  would  bring  her  tea  and  toast,  and  she  would  get  me  to  pass  her  the  red  woolly  dressing  gown,  and  then  she  would  lie  back  with  her  head  lolled  against  the  brass  rungs  and  say  what  a  lazybones  she  was.  I  lived  in  dread  that  I  might  see  her  breasts,  but  mercifully  her  nightdress  was  not  sheer.  Her  toast  would  be  cut  in  neat  fingers  by  my  mother,  and  they  seemed  more  mouth-  watering  than  anything  we  might  have  downstairs.  Usually  we  had  to  have  brown  bread,  because  my  mother  made  it  and  it  was  our  duty  to  have  things  that  would  not  be  deemed  luxury.  Toast  was  from  shop  bread  and  was  a  definite  luxury.  I  would  eat  the  crusts  that  she  had  left.  The  new  curate,  who  had  come  fresh  from  the  seminary,  was  the  ad-  miration  of  all.  Girls  blushed  at  the  mention  of  his  name.  Nancy  and  he  be-  came  inseparable.  They  would  go  to  the  shops  in  his  baby  Ford  to  get  mutton  or  a  sheep's  head  or  their  favorite  ciga-  rettes,  and  when  they  came  back  they  did  not  get  out  of  the  car  immediately  but  sat  laughing  and  smoking.  They  chain-smoked.  I  never  saw  them  touch,  but  as  they  walkedtoward  the  house  it  often  was  as  if  they  wereon  the  point  of  touching  and  therefore  all  the  more  tantalizing.  Her  hand  would  come  out  of  her  coat  pocket,  or  his  hand  might  gesture  toward  the  gate,  or  lift  the  rose  briar  as  she  stooped  and  stepped  under  it,  and  it  needed  but  one  more  move  for  them  to  be  in  a  clasp.  Once,  carrying  either  handle  of  a  wide  straw  basket,  they  dropped  it  so  thatthe  grapefruit,  the  sugar  cubes,  and  the  tins  of  peas  were  rolling  all  over  the  flags.  The  grapefruit  was  for  him,  because  my  mother  said  that  after  the  long  fast  for  holy  Mass  he  needed  something  deli-  cate  before  he  tackled  a  proper  break-  fast.  When  Nancy  was  with  us,  he  came  to  our  house  directly  after  Mass  and  stayed  the  whole  day,  until  it  was  time  to  leave  forthe  evening  devotions.  They  would  sit  in  the  kitchen  and  they  would  talk  and  laugh,  and  Nancy  would  show  him  her  style.  One  Sunday,  she  went  so  far  asto  cut  his  hair.  It  was  quite  a  ceremony-draping  him  with  the  white  towel,  putting  news-  paper  underneath,  and  then  putting  the  big  rusted  brown  scissors  to  his  temple  and  going  snip-snip.  He  was  begging  her  to  let  him  look  in  the  mirror,  so  that  he  could  see  if  she  was  clipping  too  much,  but  she  laughed  and  said  to  trust  her.  As  a  joke,  she  put  one  of  the  locks  of  hair  into  a  little  lavaliere  that  she  wore  around  her  neck.  The  rest  was  swept  up  onto  a  piece  of  cardboard  and  tossed  over  the  hedge,  as  tea  leaves  might  be.  He  did  not  like  the  haircut,  said  the  congregation  would  now  see  his  big  ears,  and  so  she  called  him  Big  Ears,  and  smiled  at  him,  and  swallowed  intensely.  As  she  commiserated  with  him,  her  eves  filled  up  with  the  most  glistening  tears,  which  shedid  not  shed.  They  were  like  glycerine.  Sometimes  she  and  he  would  call  me  into  the  kitchen  and  ask  me  to  re-  cite  or  tell  some  story  about  the  school-  teacher-how  she  thumped  us  and  called  us  ugly  names-and  then  just  as  unaccountably  they  would  ask  me  to  leave  the  kitchen  at  once  and  go  out-  side  and  not  come  back  till  I  was  called.  Those  exiles  into  the  garden  were  agony.  They  made  me  think  of  Christ  in  Gethsemane,  and  I  would  kneel  down  and  ask  my  Maker  to  let  such  agony  pass,  knowing  that  it  would  not.  The  garden  was  big  and  windy:  there  was  just  the  privet  hedge,  some  devil's  poker,  a  few  shrubs,  and  two  granite  pedestalsthat  served  as  decora,  tion.  They  were  like  giant  mushrooms,  and  one  of  them  had  come  unstuck  from  its  base.  I  would  shake  it,  hoping  it  would  fall,  yet  dreading  the  fact  that  it  might  fall  and  yearning  for  a  " b"tap  on  the  window  or  a  &quot;yoo  -h0  o&quot;-  the  signal  that  said  co  me  back.  The  curate  escorted  her  t  o  the  Hal-  loween  dance  and  there  their  friend-  ship  underwent  a  breach  .  It  seems  he  stood  inside  the  dance-  hall  door  ,  hold-  ing  her  fur  st  ole,  not  daring  to  commit  it  to  the  ladies'  r  oom,  lest  it  be  stolen  or  tried  on  by  the  woman  who  minded  the  coats  and  who  was  dopey  and  lack-  adaisical.  The  dance  floor  wa  s  lik  e  an  ic  e  rink,  and  the  band  f  rom  County  Offaly  was  repu  ted  to  be  the  best  that  ever  came.  Nancy  danced  with  all  and  sundry,  and  each  ti  me  she  came  to  t  he  door  she  smiled  or  gave  some  recog-  nition  to  the  curate,  who  was  taking  stock  of  all  the  dancers  but  particularly  of  her.  For  the  ladies'  choice  she  asked  the  county  councillor,  knowing  that  it  could  not  give  offense  to  her  new  admirer.  Her  new  admirer  was  the  crooner,  who  wore  a  fawn  gabardine  suit  andhad  a  lot  of  oil  in  his  hair.  It  seems  that  the  moment  he  caught  sight  of  her  in  her  raspberry-colored  dress  he  stopped  singing,  in  mid-song,  let  out  a  whistle,  and  then  pointed  the  microphone  in  her  direction.  After  that,  he  made  a  point  of  singling  her  out  when  she  approached  the  bandstand,  and  he  sang  the  song  &quot;Jealousy&quot;  with  a  special  lady  in  mind.  When  the  sup-  per  break  came,  she  did  not  go  down  to  the  end  of  the  hall  and  join  the  curate  for  lemonade  and  queen  cakes;  rather,  she  sneaked  out  by  an  upper  door,  which  was  a  fire  exit,  and  was  followed  by  the  crooner,  who  provi-  dently  brought  his  Crombie  overcoat.  No  one  knew  for  certain  what  ensued  out  there,  save  that  they  were  not  on  the  grounds  of  the  dance  hall  but  had  gone  along  the  road  and  Jurked  in  a  gateway.  Nancy  herself  assured  my  mother  that  it  was  the  most  harm-  less  little  thing-that  they  sat  on  the  wet  wall  while  the  crooner  taught  her  the  words  of  a  song  she  loved.  She  sang  a  bit  of  the  chorus  of  it:  After  the  ball  was  over  Just  at  the  break  of  day  Many's  the  heart  that  was  aching  If  I  could  read  them  all  Many's  the  heart  that  was  broken  Af...  ter  the  ball.  It  could  have  been  the  theme  song  for  the  injured  curate,  because  he  did  not  wait  to  see  her  home.  She  got  a  lift  on  the  crossbar  of  a  bicycle  and  got  oil  all  over  her  long  dress.  He  did  not  come  the  next  morning.  My  mother  " b"said  that  probably  he  would  never  come,  and  became  snappy,  as  she,  too,  loved  his  visits  because  they  lessened  the  undercurrent  of  despair  that  seeped  through  our  house.  Nancy  said,  &quot;Care  to  bet?&quot;  And  they  bet  sixpence.  Nancy's  prediction  was  that  he  would  come  on  the  third  day,  and  so  sure  was  she  of  this  that  she  postponed  going  home  until  then,  even  though  she  was  needed  in  the  city  in  her  parents'  shop.  Her  parents  owned  a  confectionery  shop  in  Limerick  and  sold  the  most  beautiful  cakes  and  buns.  When  she  came  to  us,  she  al-  ways  brought  a  lemon  cake  ora  coco-  nut  cake,  and  once  there  was  an  al-  mond-flavored  cake  with  almond  icing  and  a  little  almond  chicken.  She  real-  ized  there  was  some  pique  on  my  moth-  er's  part  and  took  to  tidying  two  cup-  boards  and  lined  them  with  newspaper.  She  picked  out  all  the  old  socks  from  the  laundry,  and  they  looked  ridiculous  on  the  kitchen  table,  gray  or  flecked  socks,  all  looking  for  a  partner  and  most  of  them  full  of  holes.  On  the  third  morning,  as  the  dogs  ran  joyously  from  the  back  steps  and  chased  down  the  fields,  she  knew-  we  all  knew  -that  it  was  he.  She  ran  to  the  front  window  to  make  sure  it  was  his  car.  My  mother  volunteered  to  go  to  the  yard  to  feed  the  fowl,  and  told  Nancy  to  lay  a  tray  and  make  him  feel  at  home.  &quot;Hello,  stranger&quot;  was  what  Nancy  said,  and  she  put  her  hand  out,  but  he  did  not  shake  it.  Her  nail  varnish  was  a  baby  pink  and  the  cuticles  were  very  defined.  He  sat  near  the  range,  like  a  scowling  boy.  She  was  all  the  time  smiling,  waiting  for  his  rebuke  so  that  she  could  dismiss  it.  Her  hair  was  tied  up  in  a  big  soft  roll  that  stretched  from  ear  to  ear,  and  it  made  her  look  older  and  more  sedate.  It  was  like  a  big  sausage.  She  told  me  to  make  my-  self  scarce.  Out  in  the  garden,  I  wondered  what  they  were  saying,  or  if  they  had  moved  nearer,  or  if  as  she  marched  about  the  kitchen  to  prepare  his  repast  he  was  shocked  by  the  slits  in  her  skirt.  There  was  a  front  and  a  back  slit,  and  as  she  moved  she  took  uncommonly  large  strides,  so  that  one  saw  above  the  backs  of  her  knees-saw  the  flesh  covered  in  beige  silk  stockings,  saw  the  seam  going  right  up.  I  was  holding  the  stone  mush-  room  and  was  about  to  tilt  it  to  one  side,  but  the  next  moment  I  let  go  of  it  and  it  was  bending  like  the  Tower  of  Pisa.  In  the  front  room,  with  its  long  French  window  opening  onto  the  gar-  den,  the  most  terrible  thing  had  un-folded.  They  had  gone  in  there  and  he  was  stripped  to  the  waist.  He  had  his  back  to  the  window.  She  was  looking  at  his  body,  as  if  examining  it  for  spots  ora  mole  or  something.  But  what?  I  had  to  come  closer  in  order  to  find  out.  His  head  was  turned  half  round,  perhaps  to  say  darling,  or  what  are  you  doing.  At  the  very  same  moment,  my  mother  was  coming  from  the  farm-  yard  with  two  empty  buckets.  My  mother  was  always  carrying  buckets,  always  busy,  always  modest,  and  was  now  about  to  witness  the  most  profane  scene-the  half-naked  curate  and  Nan-  cy  laughing.  Nancy  bent  and  said  something  to  his  back,  and  then  they  must  have  heard  my  mother  in  the  kitchen  because  suddenly  he  was  putting  his  shirt  on  and  she  was  leaving  the  room.  I  do  not  know  what  she  saidto  him  or  what  caused  him  to  undress.  All  I  know  is  that  I  realized  she  had  some  secret  with  men,  and  that  it  was  a  secret  that  I  would  never  grasp,  never  master,  and  never  quite  understand.  HE  third  woman,  Mrs.  Keogh,  did  not  set  foot  in  our  house  ever,  being  too  shy.  She  came  once  a  week,  Fridays,  after  she  had  drawn  her  pen-  sion,  and  sat  on  the  back  step  and  drank  a  cup  of  buttermilk.  She  wore  heavy  serge  clothes,  the  same  ones  win-  ter  and  summer,  and  the  same  brown  velours  hat  with  the  two  hatpins,  one  being  a  huge  dented  pearl  and  the  oth-  er  of  false  emerald  stones,  many  of  " b"which  were  missing.  There  were  holes  where  the  sto  nes  should  be.  She  lived  across  the  fields  from  us  an  d  only  saw  civilization  on  Sundays,  when  she  went  t  o  Mas  s,  and  on  Fridays,  when  she  drew  h  er  o  ld-ag  e  pension.  She  wou  ld  sit  on  the  back  step  and  say  eagerly  to  my  mother,  &quot;Any  new  s?&quot;  She  had  a  habit  of  lifting  h  er  face  and  the  tip  of  her  nose,  as  if  she  w  ere  a  bird  and  about  to  take  off  into  the  air.  If  she  sa  w  my  father  or  a  workman  coming  toward  the  house,  she  woul  d  run  off  and  leav  e  the  unfinished  buttermilk.  'There  was  seldom  any  news,  and  yet  she  would  ask  and  ask,  as  if  she  could  be  told  something  that  would  fill  her  up  until  the  next  week.  She  suffered  from  shingles.  She  said  she  hoped  that  my  mother  would  never  get  shingles,  and  in  a  strange  way  my  mother  knew  that  one  day  she  would.  It  was  as  if,  out  of  consolation,  one  person  eventually  got  another  person's  ailment,  and  what  they  all  dreaded  getting  was  cancer.  Mrs.  Keogh  had  only  two  ambitions  in  her  life,  and  we  knew  them.  The  first  was  that  her  husband  might  be  per-  suaded  to  build  a  new  house  up  near  the  main  road,  so  that  she  could  see  people  as  they  went  by.  All  she  wanted  was  to  see  them  and  to  see  whom  they  were  with,  and  to  see  what  kind  of  bi-  cycles  they  rode,  or  to  see  the  occa-  sional  motorcar.  Motorcars  were  still  a  novelty,  and  she  expressed  a  great  fear  of  them-said  they  were  dangerous  43  bulls  and  could  easily  get  out  of  hand.  My  mothe  r  sa  id  nonsense  and  th  at  they  had  brakes,  just  li  ke  a  bi  cycle  ,  but  we  were  all  vastly  ignorant  of  th  eir  w  ork-  ings.  One  man  carried  his  toofbox  on  the  running  board  of  his  car,  and  it  was  sa  id  to  be  dense  with  implements.  Mrs.  Ke  ogh  said  to  just  imagine  how  many  thing  s  could  go  wrong  with  a  car,  and  my  mot  her  said  that  they  need  not  worry,  as  it  would  be  shanks'  m  are  for  them  until  t  hey  died.  Her  second  w  ish-and  this  was  a  terrible  secret-  was  that  her  husband  would  die  before  her.  In  that  way,  she  imagined  s  he  could  also  achieve  her  first  wish.  She  t  hought  she  would  sell  the  house  to  people  with  young  children  and,  being  a  widow,  she  might  get  a  c  ounty  -  coun-  cil  cottage  and  grow  flowers  in  a  win-  dow  box.  She  told  this  only  one  time,  when  s  he  was  groaning  with  pain  and  was  di  scuss  in  g  with  my  mother  the  benefit  of  a  new  brown  oint  ment.  She  was  in  a  gony.  The  ointment  was  in  a  little  round  b  ox,  and  together  the  y  smelled  it  and  were  dubious  a  bout  it.  She  lif  ted  her  bodice  and  there  we  saw,  like  stigmata,  a  huge  crop  of  sores,  and  while  we  were  lo  oking  at  them  her  other  wish  tumbled  out  of  her  mouth  and  she  retra  cte  d  it  at  once.  Her  life  had  no  variety.  They  said  the  Rosary  e  very  evening  after  their  tea.  They  were  in  bed  while  it  wa  s  still  bright  in  summer,  and  she  was  up  at  five  or  six  washing.  She  was  a  pow  erful  washer.  S  he  washed  tables,  chairs,  the  milk  tankard,  she  washed  the  out-  hous  es,  she  washed  the  windows  and  the  sills  of  windows,  and  she  would  have  washed  the  roof  of  the  hay  shed  if  she  had  had  a  ladde  r  long  enough.  She  disliked  cooking,  and  her  standby  was  potatoes,  bacon  ,  and  cabbage,  and  nothing  else.  Their  dogs  were  savages,  so  one  did  not  venture  there  unless  it  was  an  emergency.  After  she  had  been  missing  from  Mass,  my  mother  and  I  set  out  to  call  on  her  one  Sunday  evening.  As  we  came  up  the  overgrown  lane  that  led  to  their  cement  house,  two  fero-  cious  creatures  came  bounding  o  ver  the  fields,  barking  and  snarling.  We  stood  our  ground,  but  when  we  saw  that  t  he  distance  between  us  and  the  dogs  was  desperately  shortening  we  backed  away  and  jumped  o  ver  a  fence  ,  capsizing  t  he  uppermost  loose  plank.  They  were  upon  us-two  mangy  creatures,  baring  their  teeth,  so  that  we  could  see  their  gums.  My  mother  told  me  to  pick  up  a  stone,  and  while  I  did  she  pushed  them  back-  ward  with  the  plank,  making  sure  that  at  least  the  fence  was  between  our  feet  " b"and  their  carnivorousness.  Pelting  them  with  sod  and  stones  made  them  worse,  and  had  not  Mrs.  Keogh's  son,  Patrick,  come  to  call  them  we  would  have  been  eaten  to  death.  He  dragged  them  away,  and  still  they  snarled  and  still  they  con-  spired  to  get  back  to  us  and  have  their  revenge.  He  did  not  invite  us  in.  Mrs.  Keogh  came  down  the  field  in  a  man's  hat.  She  always  kept  her  head  covered  because  of  the  shingles,  and  the  air  could  never  get  to  her  scalp.  Wiping  her  hands  on  her  apron,  she  then  shook  hands  with  us  and  begged  us  to  sit  down  on  the  loose  wall.  She  did  not  dare  ask  us  in,  as  her  husband  was  moody  and  talked  only  to  the  sheep  and  never  kept  his  money  any-  where  but  under  his  mattress.  He  did  not  trust  banks,  and  maybe  he  thought  that  any  visitors  going  in  would  be  apt  to  steal.  Mrs.  Keogh  and  my  mother  talked  about  a  new  motorcar  that  Mrs.  Spar-  ling  had  got;  they  raved  about  it.  There  were  six  motorcars  in  the  neigh-  borhood,  but  Mrs.  Sparling's  was  unique.  It  was  a  French  car,  and  she  had  been  given  it  as  a  gift  by  her  brothers  in  [REDACTED].  Her  brothers  owned  big  stores  there  and  gave  em-  ployment  to  lots  of  local  people  who  emigrated.  My  mother  said  that  Mrs.  Sparling  had  been  bornwith  a  silver  spoon  in  her  mouth  and  had  kept  it  there  ever  since.  The  car  was  dark  purple,  almost  maroon,  with  huge  headlamps  that  gave  off  two  lights,  a  bright-yellow  light  and  a  dimmer,  smokier  light.  I  myself  had  written  my  name  in  dust  on  the  body,  the  day  Mrs.  Sparling,  the  proud  owner,had  come  to  show  it  off.  I  had  sat  in  it;  I  had  touched  and  smelled  the  red  leath-  er  seats;I  had  wielded  the  steering  wheel  and  zanily  imagined  going  this  way  and  that;  I  had  inadvisedly  blown  the  horn  and  sent  my  father's  horses  into  a  frenzy.  Then,  as  she  took  her  leave  and  wound  the  window  down  to  say  goodbye,  I  put  my  initials  on  the  dusty  metal  and  thought  how  in  a  sense  I  would  be  travelling  all  over  the  countryside,  being  shown  to  people  who  were  speechless  with  envy  and  with  admiration.  Mrs.  Keogh  asked  about  the  car  in  such  detail-how  big  it  was,  how  many  could  fit  comfortably,  and  if  when  it  was  moving  the  guts  and  stomach  rum-  bled.  We  could  not  answer  these  things,  because  we  had  not  driven  in  it,  though  of  course  we  aspired  to.  Byway  of  apologizing  for  not  asking  us  in,  she  slipped  me  half  a  crown  and     from  under  her  skirt  produced  a  car-  nival  jug  for  my  mother.  It  was  a  beautiful  orange  color  and  it  was  al-  most  opaque;  yet  when  my  mother  held  it  up  in  the  sunset  it  gleamed  and  caught  fire.  It  was  a  cream  mug.  It  was  like  something  from  a  far-off  ba-  zaar  and  completely  unlike  the  dreari-  ness  of  the  surroundings.  There  were  the  big  piles  of  cloud,  the  ragged  fields,  the  hazel  trees  with  their  unripe  green-  skinned  nuts,  and  the  little  stream  that  seemed  to  say  tra-la  tra-la  tra-la.  Thrilled  by  the  gift,  my  mother  made  a  rash  promise.  She  said  that  she  would  ask  Mrs.  Sparling  if  we  could  all  go  for  a  drive.  It  was  as  if  the  request  had  been  magi-  cally  made  and  magically  answered,  because  Mrs.  Keogh  jumped  up  in  excitement,  gushed  like  the  stream,  and  asked  what  would  she  wear  and  when  would  it  be.  As  we  walked  home,  my  mother  re-  gretted  her  promise,  because  Mrs.  Sparling  was  a  snob  and  made  fun  of  Mrs,  Keogh,  with  her  long  idiotic  clothes,  her  birdlike  snout,  and  her  nervous  singsong  voice.  Called  her  a  Mohawk.  My  mother  said  she  would  not  ask  just  yet;  she  would  bide  her  time,  It  was  because  of  that  we  had  to  start  avoiding  Mrs,  Keogh.  We  had  to  hide  when  we  saw  her  coming  across  the  fields  on  Friday,  and  after  Mass  my  mother  rushed  out  at  the  last  Gos-  pel,  before  the  rest  of  the  congregation.  Mrs.  Keogh  never  left  the  chapel  until  the  throng  went  out,  and  so  it  was  easy  enough  to  avoid  her.  It  bothered  us  oneday  when  she  left  a  sweater  on  the  back  step.  It  was  wrapped  in  old  news-  paper.  It  was  a  beautiful  sweater,  with  a  special  zigzag  patt'ern,  and  it  must  have  taken  her  weeks  to  knit.  It  was  for  me.  It  had  many  colors  and  re-  minded  me  of  Joseph  and  the  dream  coat.  Yet  getting  it  put  us  under  an  obligation,  and  I  could  only  enjoy  it  in  spasms.  It  was  a  few  weeks  later  that  we  heard  how  Mrs.  Keogh  was  seen  in  the  village,  in  the  forester's  car,  and  that  she  was  waving  to  everyone  as  they  sped  by.  They  went  through  the  village,  past  the  school,  and  down  the  very  steep  hill  that  led  to  the  lower  road,  and  we  learned  that  they  stopped  in  the  next  village  and  went  into  the  lovely  hotel  with  the  pale-green  walls,  green  blinds,  and,  on  the  veranda,  green  glass-topped  tables  and  green  bamboo  chairs.  To  our  astonishment,  Mrs.  Keogh  and  the  forester  took  a  cup  of  teain  there  and  Mrs.  Keogh  had  the  clientele  in  stitches  describing  the  drive,  describing  how  hedges  and  houses  slid  past,  saying  that  it  was  too  quick,  was  like  seeing  the  tail  of  afox  as  he  vanished.  Then  the  forester-  he  was  a  distant  relation  of  hers  bought  a  box  of  matches,  counted  them,  found  there  were  four  missing,  reluctantly  paid  for  the  two  teas,  and  rose  to  go  home.  At  the  gateway  that  led  to  their  little  stile,  and  thence  led  to  a  walk  across  four  fields,  Mrs.  Keogh  was  loath  to  leave  him.  She  even  suggested  going  to  the  village,  where  he  lodged,  and  walk-  ing  home.  He  could  only  get  rid  of  her  with  the  guarantee  that  he  would  bring  her  out  again.  As  she  crossed  the  fields,  she  took  off  her  hat  and  coat.  She  and  her  husband  and  son  always  did  that.  They  would  always  be  strippedof  their  good  clothes  by  the  timethey  got  to  the  house,  so  that  they  could  start  work  straightaway.  She  hurried  in  to  put  on  the  kettle,  to  get  the  feed  forthe  hens,  to  oil  and  light  the  lamp,  while  gabbing  to  her  son  about  the  drive,  her  vertigo,  the  way  the  car  swerved  at  a  very  bad  corner,  the  forester's  presence  of  mind.  Then  all  of  a  sudden  she  dropped  the  cup  with  which  she  was  filling  the  kettle  and  said  she  must  go  out,  as  she  felt  dizzy.  Outside,  she  stood  under  the  wal-  nut  tree  and  clung  to  a  bough,  lowered  her  head  onto  it  and,  without  a  word,  slouched  down  until  her  feet  had  given  way,  and  softly  fell  and  died.  There  was  a  seraphic  smile  on  her  face,  as  if  the  car  ride  had  been  the  crowning  joy  of  her  life.  It  was  what  everyone  remarked  on  when  they  sat  in  the  downstairs  room  and  looked  at  her  re-  mains.  Perhaps  they  found  solace  in  it.  I  myself  could  not  help  thinking  of  the  evening  when  we  sat  on  the  loose  wall  and  the  clouds  heaved  dully  by  and  the  little  giddy  stream  went  tra-la.  It  was  November  now,and  the  squir-  rels  had  eaten  the  hazelnuts  and  the  husks  were  trampled  into  the  ground  and  were  rotting  and  nourishing  the  earth.  I  could  not  imagine  her  dead.  I  still  can't.  I  still  can't  imagine  any  of  them  dead.  They  live  on;  they  are  fixed  in  that  far-off  place  called  child-  hood,  where  nothing  ever  dies,  not  even  oneself. "