 b"They  tell  me  now  to  make  peace.  A  sister!  they  say.  How  can  you  not  see  a  sister?  It's  time,  they  say.  It's-what?  It's  nearly  twenty  years.  I  don't  say  anything.  They  give  me  tea,  cakes.  Or  would  you  rather  have  coffee?  Make  him  coffee.  No,  no,  I  say;  tea  is  fine.  I  drink  the  tea,  eat  the  cakes.  Come  on,  they  say.  It's  not  nice.  People  are  talking.  What's  the  matter  with  you?  I  look  down  at  my  tea.  Listen,  they  say;  she's  not  very  happy.  That  husband.  It's  not  good.  They  go  on  and  on.  They  won't  stop.  Finally,  I  tryto  explain  it  to  them.  I  say  that  I  know  it  was  a  long  time  ago,  I  understand,  I  am  not  in-  terested  in  blame,  I  don't  hold  any  grudges;  in  fact,  I  never  think  about  it.  It  happened.  It's  over.  It's  finished.  It's  forgotten.  I  live  the  way  I  do  and  I'm  perfectly  happy  and  why  start  that  all  over  again?  What  for?  But  a  sis-  ter?  they  say.  What's  the  matter  with  you?  A  phone  call?  No.  MY  mother  died,  and  then  my  fa-  ther.  It  all  happened  very  sud-  denly.  My  sister  moved  back  into  the  house.  I  was  twenty-two  years  old.  My  brother  was  twelve.  It  was  the  family's  idea  that  my  sis-  ter  should  move  in  and  &quot;look  after  the  boys&quot;  :  my  uncles  and  aunts.  I  said  that  it  wasn't  necessary.  I  said  that  I  was  quite  capable  of  handling  everything  myself.  &quot;How?&quot;  they  said.  I  had  quit  college.  I  didn't  have  a  job.  &quot;Please,&quot;  I  said.  No  one  listened.  My  sister  moved  in.  There  were  fights  right  from  the  be-  ginning.  My  sister  had  married  a  Lith-  uanian  two  years  before.  He  ran  a  ser-  vice  station.  The  first  thing  he  did  was  move  all  my  parents'  furniture  out,  into  the  garage,  and  move  their  own  furni-  ture  in.  Everything.  The  refrigerator,  the  lamps,  the  glass-fronted  sideboard,  my  mother's  mahogany  dining  table  with  its  six  elegant  chairs.  He  was  rent-  ing  his  house  unfurnished.  I  had  gone  with  him  to  his  room  the  day  he  married  my  sister.  This  was  in  a  boarding  house.  Everything  he  owned  was  in  a  suitcase  under  the  bed.  He  didn't  have  a  family.  He  resented  being  Jewish.  A  tough  man,  wide-  shouldered,  strong.  A  survivor.  A  bul-  ly.  My  father  hadn't  liked  him,  but  said  nothing.  Herman  openly  sneered  at  my  father.  Worse.  He  taunted  him.  He  mocked  him.  He  called  my  father  a  coward,  a  weakling,  a  nothing.  I  have  said  that  my  parents  died  sud-  denly,  but  that  isn't  exactly  right.  My  mother  was  sick  for  a  year.  On  the  day  that  my  sister  was  engaged,  she  col-  lapsed.  This  was  at  home.  It  was  the  first  time  I  had  seen  my  mother  in  bed  during  the  day.  &quot;It's  the  excitement,&quot;  everyone  said.  The  engagement  party,  which  filled  the  house,  went  on.  My  mother  was  in  the  hospital  on  the  day  of  the  wedding.  We  all  went  there,  straight  afterward.  Someone  took  pho-  tographs.  By  now,  everyone  knew  that  my  mother  was  dying.  The  wedding  gifts  were  lavish,  for  my  mother's  sake:  a  house,  a  refrigerator,  furniture.  My  father  died  two  months  after  my  moth-  er.  Herman  drove  me  to  the  Chevre  Kadisha.  It  was  a  Sunday  morning,  hot.  Herman  lolled  in  front  of  the  desk.  &quot;The  cheapest!&quot;  he  said.  &quot;A  hole  in  the  ground,  throw  him  in,  what  dif-  ference  does  it  make?&quot;  He  joked,  he  laughed,  he  smoked  cigarettes.  He  had  lost  his  family  to  Hitler.  Brothers,  sisters-I  don't  know  exactly.  When  I  could  take  no  more,  I  stood  outside,  in  the  sun.  My  parents  had  made  no  wills.  The  house  had  to  be  sold,  but  the  legal  ar-  rangements  were  complicated  and  pro-  tracted.  It  took  a  year.  In  the  mean-  time,  the  house  was  divided  as  though  there  were  a  line  down  the  middle.  My  brother  and  I  spoke  in  whispers.  My  sister  locked  rooms.  I  had  a  job  as  a  clerk,  and  then  in  an  advertising  agency,  as  acopywriter.  Coming  home  each  day  was  unpleasant.  I  dreaded  and  delayed  it  every  way  I  could  think  of.  My  heart  began  to  pound  every  time  I  turned  intothe  street.  There  were  fights  about  everything,  about  nothing.  A  newspaper.  The  ra-  dio.  The  bath.  T'wice  the  police  came.  Things  began  to  get  broken.  Windows,  a  door.  In  the  garage,  my  parents'  fur-niture  became  battered  and  scratched,  grimy,  deep  in  dust.  Two  old  ladies  came  to  buy  the  house.  The  lawyer  gave  me  the  papers  to  sign,  and  then  took  them  to  where  my  sister  sat.  He  knocked  on  the  bed-  room  door.  Herman  stormed  into  the  garden.  We  had  three  months  to  va-  cate.  The  last  fight  was  about  a  chair.  It  had  stood  in  the  hall  for  twelve  years,  next  to  the  telephone.  Suddenly  it  was  gone.  Their  bedroom  door  was  open.  I  saw  it  in  there.  They  were  in  the  dining  room.  I  put  the  chair  back  next  to  the  telephone.  Herman  came  out  of  the  dining  room.  He  was  screaming,  wild.  I  shouted  back  at  him.  He  grabbed  the  chair.  And  then  I  made  a  mistake.  I  pushed  him.  He  began  to  punch  me.  I  fell  over.  I  lay  on  the  floor,  trying  to  shield  my  head  from  his  kicks.  My  sister  stood  in  the  doorway,  watching.  I  stared  at  her  face.  I  was  beyond  pain.  An  uncle  came  in  twenty  minutes.  I  stood  in  the  kitchen.  He  asked  my  sister  to  come  in.  I  couldn't  look  at  her.  My  uncle  spoke  quietly.  He  lit  a  cigarette.  &quot;It's  only  another  month,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;but  all  right,  it  can't  go  on.  It  didn't  work  out.  I'm  not  talking  whose  fault;  that  doesn't  matter.  You'll  move  out,  he'll  move  out,  the  furniture  we'll  put  in  an  auction.  Whatever  it  fetches,  ev-  eryone  will  get  a  third.  Everything.  Except,  of  course,  personal  things.&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  mean,  personal  things?&quot;  my  sister  said.  &quot;For  instance,&quot;  my  uncle  said,  &quot;Ben's  bed.&quot;  Ben  is  my  brother.  &quot;No,&quot;  my  sister  said.  &quot;I  want  that  bed  to  be  sold.&quot;  &quot;Your  brother's  bed?&quot;  my  uncle  said.  &quot;What  will  it  fetch?  Ten  dol-  lars?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  care  ifit's  only  one  dollar,&quot;  my  sister  said.  &quot;I  am  entitled  to  a  third,  and  I  want  it.&quot;  My  uncle  put  me  into  his  car.  He  drove  for  over  an  hour,  the  same  streets,  around  and  around.  When  I  dared  to  look  at  him,  I  saw  that  he  was  crying.  Finally,  he  pulled  up,  at  the  end  of  our  street.  He  gave  me  a  ciga-  rette.  He  looked  tired  and  old,  and  suddenly  I  felt  angry.  I  hadhad  enough.  He  looked  at  me.  He  must  have  seen  what  I  felt.  He  nodded.  &quot;All  right,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Tomorrow  morning,  this  is  what  you  will  do.&quot;  Y  sister  is  two  years  older  than  me.  From  the  earliest  I  remem-  ber,  she  always  had  trouble  with  her  weight.  She  was  always  on  a  diet.  Once  " b"   she  went  into  the  hospital,  for  tests.  I  went  to  visit  her.  She  looked  the  same  as  always,  sitting  up  against  a  lot  of  pillows,  reading  magazines  and  smok-  ing.  She  was  the  first  person  in  our  family  to  smoke.  She  was  bright  at  school.  It  all  came  easy  to  her.  She  couldn't  understand  why  I  studied  so  much.  I  was  too  seri-  ous,  she  said.  When  I  read  comic  books,  she  thought  that  was  silly.  Later,  when  I  became  interested  in  jazz,  she  thought  that  was  silly,  too.  My  mother  sewed  her  dresses.  My  sister  lost  her  temper  when  they  weren't  ready  on  time.  My  mother  would  sit  up  till  one  or  two  in  the  morning,  sewing.  From  the  earliest  I  remember,  I  al-  ways  wanted  to  be  something:  a  paint-  er,  a  writer,  an  architect,  a  designer.  I  kept  changing,  I  never  knew  exactly  what,  but  something.  My  sister  wanted  a  husband.  As  a  child,  whenever  she  wanted  something,  she  would  sit  on  my  fa-  ther's  lap.  She  rubbed  his  hair.  She  tick-  led  him.  My  father  would  frown,  pre-  tending  to  be  annoyed.  &quot;Come  on,&quot;  he  would  say  when  she  tickled  him,  laughing,  red  in  the  face,  &quot;that's  enough.&quot;  I  I  AD  I  forgotten  anything?  I  made  a  list,  and  slept  with  it  that  night  under  my  pillow.  In  the  morning  I    stared  at  it,  alone  in  the  empty  house,  went  over  it  coldly,  again  and  again.  Had  I  forgotten  anything?  .  Lawyer  .  Police  Auction  Removal  van  Gas  .  Electricity  Water  .  Telephone   Stand  in  the  garden,  then-stand  and  wait.  The  morning  around  me  is  silent.  The  lawns.  The  fruit  trees.  The  vegetable  beds.  My  fingers  know  every  inch  of  this  soil.  Stand  and  look  and  wait.  I  am  sad,  angry,  impatient,  anx-  ious,  jittery.  Frightened.  What  if  they  suddenly  come  back?  My  brother  is  at  school.  He  knows  what's  happening.  He  knows  where  to  go.  I  am  wearing  the  suit  I  wear  every  day  to  work,  a  white  shirt,  a  tie.  At  eight  o'clock  I  left  the  house,  the  way  I  leave  every  morning-eight  o'clock,  right  on  the  dot-and  walked  to  where  I  always  walk,  to  the  bus  stop,  but  then  I  kept  on,  round  the  corner.  And  wait-  ed.  And  then,  at  nine  o'clock,  came  home.  Everyone  gone.  My  sister  to  the  li-  brary  where  she  works,  first  dropping  off  her  child  at  the  woman's  house  where  she  leaves  him  every  day.  The  child  is  two  years  old.  Herman  to  his  service  station.  No  cars  in  the  drive.  I  entered  my  parents'  house,  tiptoeing  like  a  thief.  I  phoned  the  lawyer.  An  old  man.  He  knew  my  parents  well.  An  old  family  friend.  &quot;With  my  blessing,&quot;  he  said,  but  his  voice  was  sad  and  old.  And  then  suddenly  hard.  &quot;And  if  there's  any  troubles,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;phone  me  at  once.&quot;  The  locked  doors.  I  ran  to  the  police  station.  The  policeman  there  had  known  my  mother,  too,  had  helped  her  carry  home  parcels  from  the  bus,  arriv-  ing  at  our  house  hot  and  sweating,  my  mother  embarrassed  (she  carried  two  like  that  every  day,  it  was  nothing)-  the  embarrassment  of  having  a  police-  man  coming  to  your  house,  everyone  would  see.  She  gave  him  tea,  soda  wa-  ter,  please  sit  down.  And  he  had  been  back  since,  too-for  the  fights.  &quot;Go  home,&quot;  he  said  to  me.  &quot;I'll  be  there  in  an  hour.&quot;  Telephone  calls.  Explanations.  Ciga-  rettes.  Checking  and  rechecking  the  list.  Everything  arranged.  Five  minutes  to  ten.  No  one.  Nothing.  In  the  house,  out  of  the  house,  look-  ing  up  and  down  the  street.  The  house  again.  Walking  from  room  to  room.  Twelve  years.  I  came  here  when  I  was  ten.  My  first  own  room.  Twelve  years  of  sky  through  the  fruit  trees  in  the  back  gar-  " b"den,  looking  out  of  the  window,  lying  on  my  bed.  This  is  the  first  house  that  my  par-  ents  owned.  I  was  born  in  a  narrow  gray  house  that  they  rented-a  long  dark  corridor  down  one  side,  a  sunless  yard  at  the  back-and  then  they  moved  three  times,  and  when  my  mother  bought  this  house  she  paid  cash.  Every  penny.  If  she  owed  money,  she  told  me,  she  couldn't  sleep.  Locked  doors.  Ten  o'clock.  Nothing  happening.  No  one  coming.  The  silence  all  around  me  like  an  ex-  plosion.  I  can't  smoke  anymore.  Stand  in  the  garden,  then-stand  and  wait.  And  then  everyone  came  at  once.  The  policeman,  the  removal  van,  the  man  from  the  gas.  The  auction  house  came  in  a  large  truck-two  burly  men,  cigarettes  hanging  from  their  mouths.  I  told  them  to  start  with  the  things  in  the  garage.  &quot;Everything,&quot;  I  said.  Everything  had  to  be  itemized,  de-  scribed,  listed,  loaded.  The  policeman  opened  the  locked  doors.  The  man  from  the  gas  read  the  meters.  My  par-  ents'  bedroom  suite  stood  on  the  front  lawn,  out  in  the  street-the  dou-  ble  bed,  the  bedside  tables,  the  dress-  ing  table,  with  the  scratches  and  dust  mercilessly  exposed.  The  mirror  on  the  dressing  table  trembled  in  the  bright  light.  Garden  tools.  Vases.  Ashtrays.  The  man  from  the  electricity  came.  It  was  twelve  o'clock.  Everything  was  still  standing  outside.  Nothing  had  been  loaded.  I  was  afraid  they  would  come  back.  Just  after  two,  my  uncle  arrived.  &quot;How  is  it?&quot;  he  said.  He  walked  quick-  ly  through  the  house,  into  every  room.  &quot;Good,  good,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Listen,  you  had  lunch?  Of  course  you  didn't.  Here.&quot;  He  gave  me  a  sandwich  and  a  bottle  of  lemonade.  I  ate  on  the  run.  I  couldn't  stand  still,.  My  uncle  poked  into  boxes.  &quot;What's  this?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'Towels,  sheets.  This  you'll  need.&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;they're  not  personal  things.&quot;  &quot;Come  on,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;What's  the  matter  with  you?  'Take  it.  Look.  Your  father's  coat.&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  can't.  It  has  to  be  sold.&quot;  Shoes.  Umbrellas.  Cutlery.  Crockery.  The  telephone  was  disconnected,  the  water  cut  off.  The  men  from  the  auc-  tion  house  kept  asking  me  things-  was  this  personal,  was  this  for  them?  The  man  with  the  removal  van  the  same.  I  ran  everywhere.  I  could  hardly  see.  Photographs.  Tablecloths.  The  dining-room  clock.  And  all  the  time  I  kept  looking  for  Herman's  car,  his  red  car,  turning  into  the  street.  We  finished  at  a  quarter  to  five.  Everyone  drove  away.  I  walked  one  last  time  around  the  house.  What  should  have  been  now  vast  and  empty  looked  meagre  and  collapsed.  It  meant  nothing.  I  was  weak  with  fatigue.  Their  things  stood  in  a  corner  in  my  parents'  bedroom,  pushed  there,  a  dark  impersonal  stack.  They  would  come  back  to  this,  she  with  her  child,  he  in  a  fury,  to  no  gas,  to  no  electricity,  to  silence,  to  dust.  I  turned  at  the  front  gate  and  looked  back.  The  house  was,  even  from  the  outside,  no  longer  there.  It  was  dead.  We  slept  that  night,  my  brother  and  I,  on  mattresses  in  my  uncle's  house.  There  wereno  phone  calls,  no  visits.  Nothing  happened.  The  next  day  I  be-  gan  to  look  for  a  flat.  ABOUT  a  year  ago,  a  friend's  house  was  burgled.  &quot;It's  awful,&quot;  he  told  me.  &quot;I  still  keep  going  to  a  draw-  er  to  get  something.  I  don't  know-  scissors,  cufflinks,  things  like  that,  and  then  I  remember.  I  keep  doing  it.  It's  awful.&quot;  It's  twenty  years.  I  never  think  about  it.  Honestly.  Except  every  now  and  then,  sitting  alone,  usually  at  night,  I  suddenly  think,  Where  is  my  father's  pocket  watch,  with  the  chain,  and  the  thing  you  wound  it  with  on  the  end,  and  the  photograph  of  my  mother  that  my  fa-  ther  had  cut  out  and  put  inside  the  lid?  Where  is  the  penknife  he  made  in  the  shape  of  a  fish?  Where  is  the  old  cigar  box  that  he  kept  his  collar  studs  in,  and  old  foreign  coins?  Where  is  my  moth-  er's  wooden  darning  egg? "