 b"I  WAS  moving  far  away,  leaving  I  the  East  for  the  first  time.  My  sister  and  I  arranged  to  meet  at  the  Port  Authority  to  take  an  evening  bus  to  the  Berkshires,  to  visit  our  par-  ents  at  their  summer  house.  We  would  stay  one  night.  At  the  bus  station,I  looked  in  Whe-  lan's  for  postcards  of  New  York,  and  I  thought  of  the  people  I  was  leaving.  I  would  send  them  cards  from  my  stops  on  the  long  drive  [REDACTED].  I  saw  my  sister  at  another  postcard  rack,  one  aisle  down  from  mine.  She  was  turning  the  rack  discontentedly,  as  if  she  wanted  a  view  of  [REDACTED]  they  hadn't  taken.  I  watched  her  for  a  few  minutes,  wait-  ing  for  her  to  notice  me,  but  I'd  or-  dered  a  coffee  to  go  and  gotten  it  from  the  counterman  before  she  looked  up  from  the  cards.  We  rode  through  a  sultry  Indian-  summer  evening,  leaving  the  [REDACTED],  leaving  the  Bronx  River,  until  we  reached  the  green  places,  the  one  where  I'd  gone  to  camp,  the  towns  in  Con-  necticut  and  [REDACTED]  too  small  for  a  post  office,  gone  in  a  wink.  The  green  became  deeper  as  we  rode,  and  by  the  time  we  arrived  in  Great  Bar-  rington  it  was  nearly  dark.  I  could  just  make  out  my  father  standing  across     the  street  at  Melvin's  Pharmacy,  where  he'd  told  us  the  bus  would  let  us  out.  He  was  waiting  for  us  to  see  him,  waving  to  be  sure  we  knew  where  we  were.  He  waited  for  the  light  to  change  and  came  across  the  street  to  help  us  with  our  bags.  The  town  looked  black  and  green  to  me,  so  quiet  after  the  city.  On  the  drive  to  the  house,  I  could  barely  make  out  the  woods.  The  house  is  shaped  like  a  cuckoo  clock;  the  light  coming  through  the  windows  made  it  look  inviting.  The  lawn  felt  cool  as  we  walked  the  small  incline  to  the  front  door.  My  stepmother  had  lit  a  fire  for  us  in  the  stone  fireplace  and  held  two  portions  of  supper.  My  sister  and  I  were  seated  next  to  each  other  so  we  both  faced  the  fire  as  we  ate.  My  sister  left  the  table  twice  to  be  sure  her  oboe  was  warm  enough  in  the  bedroom  where  she'd  left  it.  She  keeps  the  oboe  wrapped  in  a  Mylar  blanket  in  its  case,  but  still  she  worries  that  it  will  crack  when  there  are  changes  in  the  tempera-  ture.  We  went  to  sleep  right  after  din-  ner,  and  it  was  a  deep  sleep  for  me,  one  minute  into  darkness.  In  the  morning,  my  sister  and  I  woke  at  the  same  time.  We  were  sleep-  ing  in  the  back  room,  the  one  most  sheltered,  and  it  was  impossible  to  tell  if  it  was  early  or  late.  The  house  is  set  in  the  woods  under  ancient  pines  that  steal  the  sun.  The  curtains  were  drawn,  and  the  panelling  gave  off  a  slight  smell  of  pine.  My  parents  bought  the  house  when  I  was  in  college,  and  I  hadn't  spent  many  nights  there.  I  thought  about  packing  up  my  own  place-what  I  should  take,  what  I  would  leave.  My  stepmother  had  eaten  hours  be-  fore  and  wasn't  in  the  house,  so  my  fa-  ther  made  eggs  and  English  muffins  for  the  three  of  us,  and  served  them  on  the  screened-in  porch.  He  talked  about  the  trip  to  Europe  he  and  my  stepmother  had  made  last  spring.  &quot;We  thought  we'd  play  it  by  ear,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;not  make  any  reservations,  but  we  didn't  count  on  several  obstacles-  one  of  which  was  Easter.  Everyone  told  us,  'Oh,  we  can't  help  you  now,  we're  getting  ready  for  Easter,]  and  after  Easter  it  was  just  the  same.&quot;  But  eventually  they  reached  the  na-  vel  of  the  universe-Delphi-and  trav-  elled  to  Crete,  visited  Minoan  ruins,  loved  the  Cretan  people,  drove  on  switchback  roads  tothe  high  hidden  vil-  lages.  Why  isit  so  difficult  for  me  to  listen  to  other  people's  tales  of  travel?  Am  I  jealous  of  their  good  times  without  me  or  are  the  stories  badly  told?  Rather  than  listen,  I  watched  my  father  and  thought  what  a  good  picture  it  made-  him  in  his  plaid  shirt  and  golf  cap  against  the  background  of  screen  and  pines.  The  talk  went  from  [REDACTED]  to  Lat-  in,  a  language  all  three  of  us  had  stud-  ied  with  varying  degrees  of  success.  My  father  was  the  best  of  us.  I  never  un-  derstood  as  he  helped  me  struggle  with  Caesar  and  Cicero  how  he  could  re-  member  anything  when  he'd  been  out  of  school  so  long.  My  sister  had  one  year  of  Latin,  all  in  tutorial,  but  never  got  past  Caesar.  Soon  my  father  and  I  were  remembering  lines  from  Vergil:  Forsan  et  haec  olim  meminisse  juvabit.  &quot;'The  ship  is  sinking,&quot;  my  father  said,  &quot;and  sea  monsters  are  rising  up  to  meet  the  crew.  All  seems  lost.  And  Aeneas  says,  'One  day  we'll  look  back  even  on  this  and  smile.&quot;  &quot;  I  couldn't  remember  where  my  lines  came  from,  but  I  remembered  what  they  meant:  En  Priamus.Sunt  hic  etiam  sua  praemia  laudi;  Sunt  lacrimae  rerum  et  mentem  mortalia  tangunt.  &quot;Ah,  Priam,&quot;  Aeneas  says.  &quot;Even  here  there's  praise  for  you,  and  human  " b"tears  for  human  things,  and  mortals  being  held  in  mortal  memory.&quot;  FTER  we  cleaned  up  the  breakfast  dishes,  my  sister  and  I  went  outside.  We  walked  around  the  house,  surveying  the  lawn  our  parents  had  smoothed  and  extend-  ed,  the  woods  they'd  thinned,  the  paths  they'd  carved  for  walks.  Then  we  found  our  step-  mother  on  the  new  patio  out  front.  She  was  sitting  in  a  lawn  chair,  listening  on  her  portable  radio  to  the  House  Assassinations  Committee.  She'd  been  listening  to  it  all  month,  she  said.  My  sister  and  I  pulled  up  aluminum  lawn  chairs  and  formed  a  half  circle  with  her,  our  faces  up  to  the  sun  that  trickled  through  the  trees.  I  remem-  bered  coming  home  from  school  at  lunch-  time  during  a  certain  spring  of  my  childhood  to  find  my  mother  lis-  tening  to  the  HUAC  hearings  then  being  broadcast.  Years  later,  when  I  saw  a  famous  documen-  tary  on  HUAC  and  Joe  McCarthy,  I  misunderstood  what  I  saw,  and  thought  it  must  be  a  continuation  of  the  lunch-  time  show  my  mother  had  liked.  My  father  appeared  with  his  camera  and  started  circling  us  to  get  the  photos  he  wanted-of  me  and  my  sister,  then  my  sister  and  stepmother,  then  the  three  of  us  together.  He  asked  us  to  turn  our  heads,  then  to  look  as  if  we  were  talking  to  one  another.  When  my  sister  protested  having  her  picture  taken,  he  said  what  he  really  wanted  was  a  picture  of  the  house  and  the  pots  of  tomatoes  and  flowers  on  the  stone  steps.  We  were  only  serving  as  figures  in  the  foreground,  for  scale.  Enough.  After  a  few  more  pictures,  my  sister  and  stepmother  had  had  enough.  My  stepmother  turned  off  the  radio  and  we  all  walked  into  the  woods  to  see  the  new  gazebo.  The  gazebo  sits  on  a  cliff  deep  in  the  woods  overlooking  a  rushing  brook-a  good  spot  for  trout,  my  fa-  ther  says.  The  previous  winter,  vandals  had  destroyed  the  original  gazebo,  and  now,  after  the  insurance  claims  had   been  made  and  my  stepmother  had  been  d  iligen  t  in  looking  for  bargains  in  gazebos,  there  was  this  new  screened-  in  structure,  bigger  and  sturdier,  better  in  every  way.  The  roof  was  yellow  an  d  wh  ite,  like  a  circus  tent.  We  ad-  mired  it  fro  m  the  outside,  then  went  in  .  The  furniture  was  new  also,  red-  wood  an  d  chrome  with  yellow  cush-  ions.  T  he  ch  air  s  had  been  delivered  r  eady  to  assemble,  my  s  tepmother  said,  with  s  ome  necessary  nu  ts  and  b  olts  left  out;  she'd  made  three  extra  trips  to  Pittsfi  el  d  to  collect  the  missing  parts.  My  father  took  one  more  photo;  then  I  asked  for  the  c  amera  to  take  a  picture  just  of  my  parents.  I  stood  as  far  back  as  I  could  in  the  gazebo,  and  my  father  told  m  e  to  stop  fool  ing  around  with  his  camera.  &quot;It's  focussed,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  focussed  it  for  you.&quot;  But  I  had  to  brin  g  together  the  double  image  between  my  parents  of  the  pine  trees  and  the  screen,  and  a  little  bit  of  my  father's  shoulder.  After  that,  I  handed  the  camera  back  to  my  father.  &quot;How  many  shots  are  left  on  that  roll?&quot;  my  stepmother  asked,  and  my  father  said  there  was  only  one.  &quot;'Then  take  a  picture  of  the  sound  of  the  brook,&quot;  she  said.  My  father  said  he  would  use  the  last  shot  for  a  study  of  the  woods,  and  he  went  to  the  door  of  the  gazebo.  I  told  him  I  guessed  he  would  really  take  a  last  picture  of  the  three  of  us  sitting  on  the  new  furniture.  'No,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  can't  get  a  picture  through  the  screens.&quot;  I  could  tell  that  my  sister  was  get-  ting  restless,  that  she  was  ready  to  move  on  to  friends  with  whom  we  were  visiting  for  the  rest  of  the  week-  end.  I  didn't  mind  any  of  it--the  ga-  zebo,  the  woods,  the  photographs.  I  wanted  copies  of  every  one  of  them.  After  all,  I  was  going  so  far  away. "