 b"THE  doctor  is  still  at  breakfast  I  when  Maria  arrives.  She  can  hear  the  sounds  of  cutlery  and  of  people  talking  as  she  steps  into  the  house,  and  then  a  young  man  with  brown  hair  and  a  golden  beard  comes  down  the  hall  to  greet  her.  &quot;Hi,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;I'm  Don.&quot;  He  has  an  American  accent.  &quot;Come  in  here  and  find  your-  self  a  chair.  I'll  be  with  you  in  five  minutes.&quot;  So  she  goes  into  the  first  room  on  the  left  of  the  hallway  and  sits  down  in  a  big  brown  velvet  chair  and  tries  to  read  the  titles  on  the  spines  of  Don's  books,  She  is  reading  from  &quot;Food  Is  Your  Best  Medicine&quot;  when  he  comes  back.  He  has  an  open  notebook  in  his  hand.  He  puts  the  notebook  down  on  a  table  and  then  sits  astride  a  hassock  in  front  of  her  chair;  his  knees  come  close  to  touching  hers.  &quot;Hi,  Maria,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Hi,&quot;  she  says,  and  she  considers  asking  him,  Do  you  find  it  cold  up  here?  Did  you  come  to  [REDACTED]  because  of  the  war?  But  she  only  says,  &quot;I  can  tell  you  don't  come  from  here.&quot;  &quot;I  come  from  Kentucky,&quot;  he  says.  And  after  a  short  silence  he  says,  &quot;Well,  and  what  brings  you  here,  Maria?&quot;  &quot;Psoriasis,&quot;  she  says,  and  she  rolls  up  the  left  sleeve  of  her  blouse  and  holds  up  her  elbow  for  him  to  see.  &quot;I  have  it  other  places,  too,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;You  know,  the  classic  places.  Elbows.  Scalp.  Base  of  spine.  I  feel  like  a  leper.&quot;  But  Don  is  looking  at  her  face.  &quot;You  also  have  a  heart  murmur,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;How  can  you  tell  that?&quot;  &quot;From  your  nose.  There's  a  cleft  at  the  bottom  of  it.&quot;  &quot;I  thought  you  used  the  eyes  for  diagnosis,&quot;  Maria  says.  &quot;''The  eyes,  too,&quot;  he  says,  hitching  the  hassock  closer.  &quot;Let's  havea  look  at  them.&quot;  Maria  takes  off  her  tinted  glasses  and  Don  fits  over  his  head  what  appears,  in  Maria's  blurred  vision,  to  be  a  sort  of  belt  with  thick  rectangular  lenses  in  it.  Then  he  holds  up  a  little  wand  of  light  and  shines  it  in  her  eye.  Maria  wishes  she  had  brushed  her  teeth  when  she  got  up,  but  all  she  did  was  get  into  some  cotton  clothes-the  friend  who  recommended  this  doctor  told  her  not  to  wear  synthetic  clothing-and  then  she  washed  two  apples  to  eat  as  break-  fast  on  the  way  over.  Don  looks  in  her  eyes  fora  long  time  and  makes  some  notes.  ''There's  weakness  in  the  liver  and  the  kidneys  and  the  heart,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Also  the  pancreas.  Also,  your  lymph  glands  are  backing  up.  In  fact,  you're  on  your  way  to  having  what  is  known  in  iri-  dology  as  a  lymphatic  rosary.&quot;  What  else  can  be  left?  &quot;What  can  we  do  about  all  of  that?&quot;  she  croaks  up  at  him.  &quot;We're  going  to  have  to  detoxify  you,&quot;  he  says,  and  he  makes  some  notes  for  her  on  three  little  slips  of  paper,  telling  her  what  to  eat  and  in  what  pro-  portions,  showing  her  which  foods  are  yin  and  which  are  yang,  and  telling  her  that  she  is  yin,  too-very,  very  yin-  and  that  she  will  have  to  give  up  dairy  products  entirely,  &quot;Also,  I  don't  want  you  to  drink  much,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;That's  no  problem,&quot;  Maria  says.  &quot;I  only  drink  at  parties  and  then  only  in  very  small  amounts.&quot;  &quot;Oh,&quot;  he  says,  Then  he  smiles.  &quot;But  I  wasn't  talking  about  alcohol.  I  wouldn't  want  you  to  have  any  alcohol  at  all.  Not  with  your  liver  in  the  shape  it's  in.  I  was  talking  about  water.  All  you  should  have  is  two  cups  a  day,  maximum.  Your  kidneys  are  over-  worked.&quot;  He  stands  up,  ready  for  the  next  patient.  &quot;I'm  glad  to  see  you're  wearing  natural-fibre  clothes,&quot;  he  says,  patting  her  cotton-clad  shoulder.  &quot;'That's  good.&quot;  MARIA  is  invited  to  a  party  where  she  meets  an  architect  named  Steve.  They  stand  talking  to  each  other  the  whole  evening,  while  Maria  holds  a  glass  of  tonic  water  with  a  slice  of  lime  in  it.  Steve's  wife  goes  home  early.  She  seems  to  be  high  on  something.  She  walks  past  Maria  and  smiles  a  smile  so  sweetly  eerie  itis  unearthly.  The  smile  seems  to  go  right  through  Maria;  this  is  the  way  an  angel  might  smile,  she  thinks,  or  a  psychotic  person.  The  per-  son  smiling  it  doesn't  connect  to  you  in  any  way-it  is  utterly  pure  and  self-  sustaining.  Steve  says  to  Maria  that  he  can  tell  she's  a  very  open  person.  She's  pleased  but  knows  that  it  isn't  wise  to  be.  In  her  experience,  the  people  who  tell  you  you  are  open  invariably  end  up  telling  youyou  are  hard.  &quot;I  don't  think  I'm  so  very  open,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;What  I  mean  is,  I  can  see  you're  not  a  hard  person.&quot;  &quot;I  can  be  a  tough  person,&quot;  she  says.  But  she  is  smiling.  &quot;'Tough  is  not  the  same  as  hard,&quot;  he  says,  and  then  he  says,  &quot;Women  have  sometimes  told  me  that  I'm  emotional-  ly  too  demanding.  I'm  talking  about  younger  women-women  who  are,  you  know,  quite  a  bit  younger  than  you  are.&quot;  The  next  morning  Steve  phones  her  and  suggests  he  come  over  to  give  her  a  yoga  lesson.  She  says  that  would  be  wonderful,  great.  He  asks  her  if  he  can  come  over  after  supper.  She  says  no,  she'll  be  busy,  but  she  will  be  free  al-  most  any  night  next  week.  Steve  saysthat  next  week  is  going  to  be  terribly  busy  for  him,  but  when  Maria  suggests  Tuesday  night  he  does  agree  to  that.  Then  he  says,  &quot;My  wife  knows  more  about  yoga  than  I  do;  maybe  she  should  be  the  one  to  teach  you,  maybe  I  should  bring  her  with  me.&quot;  There  is  a  pause  and  Maria  says,  &quot;Oh,O.K.  If  you  like.&quot;  So  when  Tuesday  arrives  she  doesn't  know  who  is  coming-both  or  neither  or  Steve  alone.  No,  that  isn't  true-he  will  come  alone  or  he  won't  come  at  all.  Still,  at  supper  that  night  she  says  to  her  sons,  Tom  and  Andy,  &quot;Some  people  I  met  at  a  party  last  week  might  be  coming  over  tonight.  A  husband  and  wife.  They're  going  to  teach  me  some  yoga.  Maybe  just  the  wife  will  come.  Or  maybe  just  the  husband.  Maybe  both.  Maybe  neither.  It  was  all  left  very  vague.&quot;  'The  boys  say  that  they'll  be  up  in  their  rooms  and  that  they  hope  they  won't  have  to  come  down  and  say  hello  or  anything.  Maria  says,  &quot;Of  course  not.  I  just  wanted  to  let  you  know  what  might  be  happening.&quot;  Aft-  er  this  she  relaxes  a  little.  It  is  always  important  for  her  to  cover  herself  with  them-especially  with  Andy,  who  ever  since  Maria  and  Norman,  her  hus-  band,  broke  up  has  been  very  anxious  that  his  mother  not  be  rejected  by  men.  Last  winter  she  went  out  for  a  while  with  a  man  named  Al,  who  was  very  unreliable  about  coming  anywhere  near  the  time  he  promised  to  come;  she  still  has  a  whole  wine  cupboard  filled  with  bottles  that  he  brought  in  apology.  Steve  arrives  half  an  hour  late,  and  alone.  They  will  be  needing  a  blanket,  he  says,  and  Maria  says  she  has  an  old  camping  blanket  somewhere  upstairs.  As  she  is  walking  along  the  upstairs  hall,  she  can  hear  Steve  walking  along  the  downstairs  hall  to  the  kitchen.  She  can  hear  where  his  feet  stop.  When  she  " b"comes  down  with  the  blanket  he  comes  back  into  the  living  room  and  says,  This  is  very  rude  of  me  but  I've  been  reading  your  appointment  calendar.&quot;  He  looks  pleased.  Looking  for  other  men's  names,  she  supposes,  (Only  Richard's  name  is  there.)  &quot;And  what  did  you  find  on  it?&quot;  she  asks  him.  &quot;That  you  go  belly  dancing.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  that  was  a  terrible  experience.  I  was  so  uncoordinated.  I  only  went  to  one  class.&quot;  Absurd  and  coy  was  how  she  felt.  &quot;Who  was  the  teacher?&quot;  &quot;I  forget  her  name.  Some  glamor-  ous  blond  shrew,  very  impatient.&quot;  Steve  squats  and  spreads  the  blanket  out  on  the  floor.  &quot;And  who  is  Rich-  ard?&quot;  he  asks  her.  &quot;Richard  is  my  boss,&quot;  she  says  in  a  voice  whose  softness  does  not  alert  him  at  all  to  her  love  for  Richard;  in  fact,  he  even  smiles.  &quot;I  want  you  to  lie  down  onyour  back,&quot;  he  says.  She  steps  out  of  her  shoes  and  onto  the  blanket.  &quot;You  don't  want  to  have  a  beer  or  something?&quot;  she  asks  him.  &quot;Before  we  get  started?&quot;  &quot;Let's  just  do  the  exercises  first.  Afterwe're  finished  you  can  make  us  some  tea.&quot;     When  he  has  her  positioned  on  the  blanket  he  starts  pacing  around  her.  &quot;Relax,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Let  your  legs  go  limp.  Close  your  eyes.&quot;  He  paces  some  more.  &quot;''This  is  called  the  corpse  posi-  tion  and  it's  very  relaxing,&quot;  he  says.  She  smiles  but  keeps  her  eyes  open.  On  the  sofa  she  sees  what  looks  like  a  peddler's  bundle.  &quot;What's  that?&quot;  she  asks  him.  He  opens  it.  It's  his  yoga  pants,  tied  up  in  a  T-shirt.  &quot;Do  you  want  to  change?&quot;  she  says.  &quot;'The  bathroom's  at  the  top  ofthe  stairs.&quot;  He  sprints  up  the  stairs  but  doesn't  go  into  the  bathroom;  instead,  she  hears  his  feet  running  into  her  bed-  room.  She  thinks  of  the  mess  in  there  and  closes  her  eyes.  When  he  comes  down  again  she  can  feel  him  easing  himself  onto  the  blanket  beside  her,  feels  him  put  a  hand  on  her  belly.  &quot;Now  I'm  going  to  teach  you  how  to  breathe,&quot;  he  says.  Andy  comes  down  the  stairs  on  his  way  to  the  basement  to  watch  TV.  &quot;Oh,  hi,&quot;  he  says  to  their  two  prone  bodies.  &quot;Did  you  do  the  wash,  Mum?  Did  you  put  it  through  the  dryer?&quot;  Steve  stands.  &quot;You  should  get  up  for  this  one,&quot;  he  says  to  Maria.  &quot;It's  done,&quot;  Maria  says  to  Andy. &quot;Bring  it  with  you  when  you  come  up.&quot;  Steve  takes  her  hands  and  pulls  her  to  her  feet.  After  the  boys  have  gone  to  bed  Maria  and  Steve  sit  across  from  each  other  at  the  dining-room  table  and  have  their  tea.  Steve  talks  with  the  speed  and  desperation  of  a  man  who  fears  he  might  be  thrown  out  at  any  minute,  Maria  doesn't  say  much.  When  she  does  tell  him  something  about  her-  self  he  responds  vivaciously-an  odd  word  to  describe  a  man,  she  thinks,  but  the  right  one.  In  fact,  there  is  an  over-  vivacity  in  him  that  suggests  some  fun-  damental  lack  of  attention.  He  tells  her  that  yoga  is  important  to  him  because  he  has  asthma.  He  tells  her  about  a  co-op  he  lived  in  when  he  studied  architecture  at  McGill;  he  talks  about  politics,  about  his  work.  Finally  she  says,  &quot;Steve,  listen,  I'm  going  to  have  to  ask  you  to  go  now-  I'm  dead,  and  I  have  to  get  up  early  tomorrow  morning.&quot;  In  the  kitchen  Steve  puts  his  arm  around  her  and  she  puts  her  arm  around  him,  and  on  their  way  out  his  shoulder  hits  the  wall  phone  and  the  re-  ceiver  pops  from  its  holder  and  falls  to  the  floor.  &quot;Oh,  that  happens  all  the  time,&quot;  she  says  as  they  bend  together  for  him  to  pick  it  up.  They  continue  " b"with  their  arms  around  each  other  to  the  door.  His  kiss  grazes  her  cheek,  and  she  doesn't  offer  more  of  her  face  to  him  than  that.  He  runs  from  her  then-  out  into  the  mild  wet  night.  She  thinks  that  his  speed  announces  his  hurt.  She  thinks,  I  won't  see  him  again.  She  thinks,  Anyway,  I'm  tired  of  people  telling  me  I'm  wonderful  and  looking  at  me  with  a  predatory  look.  At  the  same  time  she  thinks,  But  this  almost  never  happens.  In  bed  she  has  trouble  sleeping.  \xe2\x80\x98N?  HEN  Maria  gets  home  from  work  the  next  afternoon  Lowell,  the  spring-water  man,  is  parking  his  truck  in  front  of  her  place.  &quot;I've  bought  myself  a  still,&quot;  Lowell  says.  &quot;To  make  water,  not  whiskey.  There's  a  distilled-water  craze  in  this  town.  I  kept  getting  all  these  calls  from  people  who  wanted  to  know  if  I  could  deliver  distilled  water  to  them,  and  soI  started  asking,  'Why  does  everyone  want  dis-  tilled  water  all  ofa  sudden?&quot;  And  it  turned  out  they'd  all  been  to  see  these  same  two  guys-two  brothers,  actual-  ly-who  take  samples  of  your  spit  and  your  urine  and  then  send  them  off  to  a  big  computer  down  in  [REDACTED]  and  in  a  couple  of  weeks  the  computer  peo-  ple  send  back  an  equation  which  tells  you  everything  about  your  health.&quot;  &quot;And  then  the  brothers  put  youon  a  diet  of  distilled  water?&quot;  Maria  says.  &quot;Yeah,  There's  an  ideal  equation  to  aim  for.  One  equation  for  Caucasians,  one  for  Orientals  And  then  these  guys-Walter  is  the  one  I  went  to-  detoxify  you  with  distilled  water  and  rebuild  your  body  with  certain  foods  and  minerals.  They  say  they  can  even  cure  cancer  this  way.  The  thing  is  you  have  to  drink  an  awful  lot  of  water.  Half,  in  ounces,  of  your  body  weight  in  pounds.  For  a  big  man  it  could  come  up  to  three  quarts.&quot;  &quot;I've  just  been  to  see  a  man-and  this  man  is  a  doctor-who  believes  peo-  ple  drink  too  much  water,&quot;  Maria  says.  &quot;He  sees  the  kidney  as  an  over-  worked  sponge.&quot;  &quot;He  must  be  macrobiotic,&quot;  Lowell  says.  &quot;'The  macrobiotic  people  could  put  me  out  of  business.&quot;  He  lines  up  the  bottles  of  spring  water  along  one  wall  of  Maria's  long  kitchen.  Before  Lowell  leaves,  Maria  gets  the  phone  number  of  the  two  brothers.  The  next  day  Maria  calls  Steve  at  his  office.  When  she  says,  &quot;Steve,  hi,  this  is  Maria,&quot;  he  says  &quot;Who?&quot;  and  she  has  to  say  her  name  twomore  times  before  he  will  acknowledge  that  he  knows  her.  Yet  when  she  invites  him  for  lunch  at  her  place  he  accepts  quickly  enough.  She  says  she  can  get  an  hour  and  a  half  off  from  work  to-  morrow,  and  he  says  he  can  do  the  same.  Then  she  says  that  she's  been  thinking  about  the  other  night,  and  that  she  feels  she  was  too  elusive.  But  then  she  found  him  too  intrusive,  she  says,  so  it  wasn't  a  simple  thing.  &quot;Too  what?&quot;  he  asks  her.  &quot;TI  oo  intrusive.&quot;  &quot;And  you  were  too  what?&quot;  &quot;T  oo  elusive.&quot;  &quot;Oh,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Well.&quot;  He  yawns.  &quot;You  know  how  it  is.&quot;  He  yawns  again.  &quot;C'est  la  wie,&quot;  he  says.  After  Maria  puts  down  the  phone  she  feels  herself  blushing.  It  was  silly  of  her  to  try  to  discuss  something  like  that  on  the  phone.  Still,  she  has  finally  asked  a  man  over.  She  goes  upstairs  and  picks  out  the  blouse  she  is  going  to  wear,  and  washes  it  by  hand  with  sweet-smelling  soap.  At  lunch  they  drink  the  wine  Steve  brought.  It's  a  cheap  one,  Maria  has  noticed-during  the  winter  with  Al  she  became  an  expert  on  wines.  She  pours  herself  only  a  little  bit,  remem-  bering  Dr.  Don,  and  when  she  goes  into  the  kitchen  forthe  salad  she  fills  most  of  her  wineglass  with  water.  After  they  finish  eating,  Steve  talks  to  Maria  about  women  he  has  known.  He  tells  her  that  the  last  woman  he  was  involved  with  was  a  poet;  he  even  mentions  her  name.  It's  a  name  Maria  knows,  although  shedoesn't  know  the  " b"poet  in  person.  But  she  is  familiar  with  her  face  from  the  jacket  of  her  lat-  est  book.  In  the  book  photograph  she  had  dark-blond  hair  and  was  standing  with  her  fists  plunged  into  the  pockets  of  an  old  embroidered  jacket,  the  wind  in  her  eyes.  Steve  says  that  the  poet  turned  out  to  bea  very  hard  woman.  Maria  decides  to  tell  him  about  Rich-  ard,  but  she  doesn't  want  to  mention  Richard's  name.  She  says,  &quot;For  a  long  time  now  I've  loved  a  man  I  work  with.  Unrequited  love.  He  has  five  children  and  is  moderately  happily  mar-  ried.&quot;  Saying  Richard  is  moderately  happily  married  is  her  way  of  saying  she  hasn't  been  to  bed  with  him.  They  carry  their  plates  and  wineglasses  out  to  the  kitchen  and  Maria  runs  hot  wa-  ter  on  them.  Then  Steve  tells  her  that  he  was  first  attracted  to  her  because  of  her  eyes.  Maria  is  surprised  by  this,  be-  cause  her  eyes  are  small.  &quot;Small  and  sweet&quot;  is  how  she  would,  in  a  kindly  mood,  have  described  them  to  herself.  &quot;Your  pupils  are  so  dilated,&quot;  Steve  says.  &quot;'There's  some  new  evidence  out  now  that  people  with  dilated  pupils  are  very  open  people.  ...&quot;  &quot;My  pupils  are  always  dilated;  it's  because  I'm  nearsighted,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;No  more  nearsighted  than  I  am.  And  look  at  mine.&quot;  She  peers  at  them;  they  are  skepti-  cal  pinpoints.  She  lifts  off  his  glasses,  takes  off  her  own,  tries  his  on.  His  glasses  are  very  strong;  his  face  swims  before  her-amoebic,  pale.  Only  his  hair  is  the  same-a  bushy  gold  sphinx  shape.  &quot;You  look  sort  of  distorted,&quot;  she  whispers.  &quot;I  am  distorted,&quot;  he  says  in  a  low  voice.  He  is  standing  close  to  her  and  they  are  both  smiling.  He  puts  his  arms  around  her,  and  she  rests  her  head  on  his  shoulder.  But  she  can't  make  any  more  moves  toward  him  than  that;  when  he  kisses  her  she  can't  open  her  mouth  to  him.  She  is  irritated  with  her-  self.  When  she  invited  him  for  lunch  she  expected  they  would  go  to  bed  to-  gether-she  put  fresh  sheets  on  her  bed  in  anticipation-and  all  she  can  do  now  is  massage  his  arms  as  he  stands  with  his  hands  on  her  hips.  And  say:  &quot;I  like  you,  Steve.&quot;  It  sounds  tepid  even  to  her,  but  it  is  the  best  she  can  do;  she  isn't  even  sure  it  is  true.  He  drives  her  back  to  her  office  on  his  way  to  his  own.  He  has  an  odd  car  for  an  architect,  she  thinks-a  great  raft  of  a  car,  battered  heirloom  of  an  earlier  decade,  The  door  on  his  side  doesn't  work,  so  he  goes  in  on  her  side  and  hitches  himself  over  to  the  steering  wheel.  They  drive  in  silence  through  the  Beechwood  woods,  and  they  pass  a  street  that  runs  down  to  the  lake.  Steve  says  that  his  partner  lives  on  the  lake,  Maria  met  Steve's  partner  at  the  party  where  she  met  Steve.  &quot;Do  you  know  who  your  part-  ner  reminds  me  of?&quot;  she  asks  him.  &quot;My  ex-husband.  He's  dark,  too,  and  he  has  the  same  kind  of  drawn,  deli-  cate  face.  We're  the  same  height,  but  I  always  felt  I  was  bigger  than  he  was.&quot;  The  way  she  really  sees  Norman  is  as  a  small  handsome  boy  with  a  beard.  &quot;I  always  felt  clumsy  beside  him,&quot;  she  says.  Steve  smiles.  His  face  looks  whimsi-  cal  in  profile;  he  has  a  great  beaked  nose  and  a  quick,  wry  smile.  &quot;And  so  now  I  like  men  who  are  bigger  than  Norman,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;I  like  men  with  big  noses,&quot;  she  adds.  This  is  the  truth-part  of  the  truth-  but  it's  also  a  strategy.  She  believes  her-  self  to  bea  sensible  woman  about  men's  looks,  and  as  a  sensible  woman  shebe-  lieves  she  can  like  the  looks  of  any  man  she  comes  to  like.  Steve  reaches  over  and  takes  her  hand.  And  Maria  at  once  feels  that  she  has  been  devious.  She  doesn't  even  know  if  she  likes  this  man.  She  only  said  what  she  said  to  soften  him,  be-  cause  he  seemed  angry.  When  they  get  into  heavier  traffic  she  withdraws  her  hand.  Steve  begins  to  talk  about  Liz,  his  wife,  and  about  her  sister,  who  he  says  is  a  bitch.  In  what  way,  Maria  wants  " b"to  know,  and  he  tells  her  some  of  the  things  this  sister  has  done  to  Liz.  What  about  some  of  the  things  you've  done  to  Liz,  Maria  wants  to  ask  him,  but  she  thinks  this  would  seem,  under  the  circumstances,  a  curious  question.  Instead,  she  asks  him  (suddenly  see-  ing  the  light),  &quot;Do  you  think  I'm  a  bitch?&quot;  He  is  cleverly,  judiciously  slow  to  answer.  Yes,  all  in  all,  he  rather  does  think  she  has  the  potential  to  bea  very  difficult  and  demanding  woman.  She  feels  worried;  she  doesn't  know  how  much  of  this  is  true.  She  thinks,  I  don't  suppose  we'll  see  each  other  again  after  this,  and  she  begins  to  hope  that  they  won't.  FTER  a  month  on  the  macrobiotic  diet,  Maria  still  isn't  sure  wheth-  er  she  feels  better.  Sometimes  she  thinks  she  does,a  little,  but  her  skin  is  as  afflicted  as  ever  and  she  is  having  pains  in  her  arms.  She  phones  the  Cali-  fornia-computer  brothers  and  makes  an  appointment  with  them.  They  are  &quot;camping  out,&quot;  one  of  the  brothers  tells  her,  in  a  private  house  in  [REDACTED]  end  of  the  city,  Maria  goes  there  on  a  Saturday  afternoon  at  the  beginning  of  August.  The  house  is  white  with  dark-green  shutters  and  has  a  small  garden;  the  garden  has  a  gate  with  a  latch.  A  tall,  bald  man  opens  the  door  to  her  and  leads  her  into  the  dining  room,  They  sit  across  from  each  other  at  the  dining-room  table,  and  he  asks  her  some  questions  and  makes  some  notes.  A  business  card  on  the  table  says  &quot;W.  B.  Spaulding,  Nutritionist.&quot;  Bald-  ing  Spaulding,  thinks  Maria,  and  she  decides  that  this  must  be  Walter,  the  brother  Lowell  saw.  Mr.  Spaulding  gives  her  a  tiny  paper  cup  to  spit  into  and  then  he  gives  her  a  bottle  for  her  &quot;other  contribution.&quot;  The  bathroom  is  upstairs,  he  says,  first  door  on  the  left.  When  he  has  both  specimens  he  carries  them  into  a  sunroom  off  the  dining  room  and  sits,  with  his  back  to  her,  at  a  card  table  cluttered  with  jars  and  bottles.  She  closes  her  eyes.  After  a  while  she  hears  him  go  over  to  the  sink  and  wash  everything  away.  Then  shehears  him  sit  down  at  the  card  table  again.  His  knee  is  jiggling,  and  in  tandem  with  its  jiggling  she  becomes  aware  of  the  beating  of  her  heart.  &quot;How  many  children  did  you  say  you  have?&quot;  he  asks  her.  His  back  is  still  turned  to  her  and  this  gives  the  con-  versation  an  ominous  cast.  (\xe2\x80\x98TWO.\xe2\x80\x99)  &quot;A  boy  and  a  girl?&quot;  &quot;Both  boys.&quot;  &quot;How  old  are  they?&quot;  &quot;Thirteen  and  sixteen.&quot;  &quot;They  live  with  you,  do  they?  You're  responsible  for  them?&quot;  She  answers  yes  to  both  questions.  He  gets  up  from  the  card  table  and  goes  over  to  a  sink  and  washes  his  hands,  then  comes  back  into  the  dining  room.  He  sits  down  at  the  table  and  transfers  the  test  numbers  onto  another  sheet.  Then  he  looks  up  at  her.  It's  the  look  she's  been  waiting  for-the  knife.  &quot;You're  in  rough  shape,  girl,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;In  what  way?&quot;  she  asks  him.  She  feels  frightened  and  also,  in  a  way  that  surprises  her,  very  angry.  &quot;In  several  ways,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;First  of  all,  your  salts  are  so  high  I  can't  mea-  sure  them.  Forty  is  the  highest  number  for  body  salts  and  yours  are  higher  than  that.  Your  body  is  too  acid.It  is  also  throwing  off  one  hundred  times  the  number  of  dead  cells  that  it  should,  and  that,  translated,  means  that  it's  dying  faster  than  it's  rebuilding  itself.  But  the  big  thing  to  worry  about  is  your  uric-  acid  reading.  It  puts  you  smack  in  the  middle  of  the  zone  for  a  major  heart  attack.  You  could  drop  dead  at  any  minute,  it's  that  bad.&quot;  There  is  a  long  silence.  Then  she  says,  &quot;Ihope  that  hearing  all  this  isn't  going  to  make  things  worse.  For  my  heart.  If  it's  in  the  shape  you  say  it's  in.&quot;  &quot;I  believe  it's  best  to  tell  the  truth,&quot;  Mr.  Spaulding  says.  &quot;And  besides,  there's  some  good  news.  There  aren't  any  cancer  cells  anywhere  in  your  body.  So-think  positively.&quot;  That  night,  Maria  is  alone  at  her  place.  Tom  and  Andy  are  staying  overnight  at  Norman's,  as  they  always  doon  Satur-  days.  After  supper  she  thinks  of  putting  on  one  of  their  records-  some  Pink  Floyd  may-  be--but  the  thought  of  the  effort  it  would  take  to  climb  the  stairs  to  the  record-player  makes  her  feel  weary.  And  what  would  be  the  point  of  putting  on  a  record  anyway?  She  would  put  it  on  and  then  not  even  hear  it,  out  of  worry.  She  is  too  worried  even  to  cry.  She  just  wants  to  stay  downstairs,  move  slowly,  husband  her  strength,  keep  warm,  for  it  is  surprisingly  cold  for  summer  and  the  eaves  of  the  row  houses  up  on  the  hill  have  been  hit  by  a  low,  golden  fall  light.  She  goes  out  into  the  hall     " b"and  gets  her  shawl  and  puts  on  a  pair  of  Andy's  ski  socks.  Norman  would  be  shocked  to  see  that  the  ski  socks  are  still  out  here  in  the  hallin  midsummer.  He  has  a  much  more  housewifely  sense  of  the  seasons  than  she  does,  and  when  they  were  married  he  was  always  after  her  to  wash  and  put  away  the  winter  clothes  early  in  March.  Now  that  he  no  longer  lives  with  her  she  doesn't  do  this,  and  on  the  shelf  above  the  coatrack  there's  a  pile  of  ski  toques  and  scarves  and  mittens-a  hilly  wool  banquet  for  moths.  If  she  dies  tonight,  she  thinks,  or  anytime  this  summer,  this  will  become  known  about  her:  the  state  of  this  shelf,  other  shelves-the  extent  to  which  she  was  unable  to  cope  with  her  life.  Of  course,  Norman  is  right,in  a  way-to  everything  there  is  a  season  and  all  that-but  he  was  rigid  about  it,  too.  He  used  to  want  Tom  and  Andy  to  talkto  him  at  suppertime,  to  be  fun-  ny  and  profound  with  him,  because  that  was  the  only  time  it  suited  him  to  try  to  be  close  to  them.  As  far  as  she  could  see,  it  never  worked.  But  here  she  is,  also  out  of  season,  maybe  even  dying.  Does  she  want  to  die?  Part  of  her  must  want  to-why  else  should  she  be  in  the  state  that  she's  in?  But  oh,  how  hard  it  will  be  for  Tom  and  Andy  if  I  should  die,  she  thinks.  Odd  how  I  feel  so  cer-  tain  of  that;  they're  the  only  ones  whose  love  I  feel  sure  of.  I'm  the  one  they  tell  their  dreams  to,  I'm  the  one  who  loves  their  jokes,  I'm  the  one  they  feel  freeto  yell  at-I'm  necessary  to  them.  The  last  time  Maria  remembers  going  out  with  Norman-years  ago  now  -they  went  to  the  ballet.  (Nor-  man  loved  the  ballet,  but  Maria,  who  loved  it  when  they  were  first  married,  had  come  to  dislike  it.)  Maria  brought  two  oranges  along  in  the  car  with  her  to  eat  as  supper  on  the  way  over.  After  she  had  finished  peeling  the  first  orange  and  was  ready  to  section  and  eat  it,  Norman  suddenly  flung  out  his  arm  and  hit  the  orange  down  to  the  floor  of  the  car,  where  it  rolled  crazily  around  in  the  grease  and  fluff.  &quot;Why  can't  you  do  things  when  other  people  are  doing  them?&quot;  he  shouted.  &quot;There's  a  time  to  eat  and  a  time  not  to  eat!&quot;  he  yelled  at  her.  &quot;When  will  you  learn  that?&quot;  This  scene  has  stuck  in  her  mind,  and  now  for  some  reason  she  thinks  of  ways  she  could  have  defended  her-  self-lovely  scenarios,  herself  victorious  and  vivid,  turning  on  her  heel  in  the  foyer  of  the  National  Arts  [REDACTED],  drawing  her  one  good  orange  out  of  her  pocket  and,  dancing  among  the  gathering  throng,  tossing  it  high  in  the  air:  a  proud,  bright-skirted,  one-orange  juggler.  After  this  she  would  leave  Norman  to  his  ballet  and  dance  off  to  a  movie.  WO  weeks  later  Maria  makes  an  appointment  with  her  own  doctor,  Dr.  Mildred  Hardy.  Dr.  Hardy  wears  herwhite  hair  in  a  bun  and  she  has  a  silver  spray  of  heather  pinned  to  her  flowered  dress.  She  has  very  high,  young  breasts  for  such  an  old  woman.  Maria  thinks  Dr.  Hardy  is  a  good  doc-  tor.  Not  too  free  with  medication  but  fond  of  stuffing  Maria's  pockets  with  grandmotherly  little  gifts-mainly  samples  of  medicated  shampoos  and  creams-and  she  is  also  fairly  open  to  unorthodox  medical  information.  Still,  she  is  a  woman  whose  ways  were  forged  in  a  particular  medical  cli-  mate-she  went  to  medical  school  in  the  forties,  when  she  herself  was  in  her  forties-and  her  training  is  still  very  much  with  her.  Maria  dreads  making  the  confession  that  will  prove  her  lack  of  faith  in  Dr.  Hardy,  but  by  this  time  the  computer  in  [REDACTED]  has  sent  back  its  coded  report  and  Mr.  Spaul-  ding  has  translated  it  for  her,  and  she  feels  she  has  new  reason  to  be  worried  on  her  own  behalf:  Cholesterol  in  the  danger  level,  uric  acid  in  the  danger  level,  and  she  has,  or  is  on  her  way  to  having,  lupus  erythematosus.  When  Maria  tells  Dr.  Hardy  about  Dr.  Don  and  the  computer  brothers,  Dr.  Hardy  only  asks  her  how  much  they  charged  her.  Maria  says  that  Dr.  Don  was  free  and  that  the  brothers  charged  forty-five  dollars  for  two  vis-  its.  Dr.  Hardy  looks  out  the  window  and  says  she  can  think  of  better  uses  for  forty-five  dollars  than  having  her  spit  sent  off  to  [REDACTED].  After  this  she  talks  about  medical  fashions.  &quot;'T  used  to  be  what  they  looked  at,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;But  nobody  looks  at  tongues  anymore.&quot;  And  then  she  tells  Maria  about  a  dress  she  saw  last  week  in  a  store  on  Rideau  Street-an  exact  replica  of  the  dress  her  mother  made  for  her  the  year  she  graduated  from  high  school  :  the  same  voile,  the  same  sleeves.  &quot;'The  blood  tests  will  take  a  week  to  ten  days,&quot;  she  says  when  she  says  good-  bye  to  Maria.  &quot;Tl  call  you  when  they  come  in.&quot;  According  to  the  blood  tests,  the  computer  wasn't  all  right  and  it  wasn't  all  wrong.  Maria's  cholesterol  is  high,  and  so  is  her  uric  acid,  but  the  impor-  tant  thing  is  she  doesn't  have  lupus.  Dr.  Hardy  sends  her  to  a  dermatologist  for  her  psoriasis  The  dermatologist  is  a  flushed,  eager  young  man  with  smudged  glasses.  &quot;I  can  only  give  you  something  to  control  it,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;As  I'm  sure  you  know,  there  is  no  cure  for  it.  Although  in  [REDACTED]  now  they're  treating  people  with  black  light.  And  " b"swimming  in  the  Dead  Sea  is  supposed  to  be  very  good  for  it-if  you  ever  find  yourself  in  that  partof  the  world.  And  sun,  if  you  can  get  some.  It's  been  a  terrible  summer,  though,  hasn't  it?  All  this  rain.&quot;  ON  Saturdays  Maria  always  goes  shopping  for  the  week's  food  at  the  Byward  market  with  her  friend  Deedee.  One  Saturday  afternoon  in  September,  waiting  at  home  for  Dee-  dee,  she  falls  asleep.  She  wakes  up  to  the  sound  of  the  door  slamming.  When  she  comes  downstairs  she  sees  that  one  of  Andy's  friends  has  turned  Andy's  bike  upside  down  and  is  trying  to  re-  pair  it.  Andy  is  squatting  beside  this  friend-bike  surgeon's  assistant.  Maria  goes  over  to  the  window  to  watch  for  Deedee,  but  Deedee  is  al-  ready  coming  up  the  front  walk.  She's  wearing  jeans  and  an  old  shirt;  her  hair  is  braided  to  one  side  in  onelong  fair  braid  and  she  is  frowning.  Maria  opens  the  door.  &quot;Hurry  up,&quot;  Deedee  says.  &quot;I  have  to  go  and  get  my  father  and  mother  at  four  o'clock.&quot;  Maria  picks  up  her  jacket  and  hits  at  her  pockets  for  keys  andmoney.  Then  she  waves  to  the  boys.  They  smile  at  her  benevolently.  She  and  Deedee  step  out  into  weak  sunshine,  and  walking  out  to  the  car  they  bump  into  each  other.  &quot;I  had  a  nap,&quot;  Maria  says.  &quot;After  an  afternoon  nap  all  creatures  are  sad.&quot;  Deedee  doesn't  answer,  and  Ma-  ria  wonders  if  she  heard  her.  But  she  must  have,  because  once  they  are  in  the  car  andon  their  way  Deedee,  in  a  voice  whose  explosiveness  suggests  a  certain  angry  incubation,  says,  &quot;Do  you  know  what  I  wish?  I  wish  you'd  get  over  Richard,  that's  what  I  wish.  T  hat  is  what's  sad.&quot;  Maria  sighs.  &quot;In  a  way,  I  suppose  I  don't  belong  in  this  century.  There's  this  hopeless,  impossible  love.  Also,  I  don't  own  a  car.  As  you  may  have  noticed.&quot;  Deedee  smiles.  &quot;Actually,  I  think  you're  kind  of  trendy.  A  woman  of  our  time.&quot;  &quot;Thanks  a  lot,  friend.  How  am  I  trendy?&quot;  &quot;All  this  chasing  after  cures.&quot;  &quot;I'm  in  pain,  Deed.&quot;  &quot;Give  up  dreaming  of  Richard  and  run  three  miles  a  day  and  your  pain  will  vanish.  I  guarantee  it.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  run  three  miles  a  day?&quot;  &quot;I'm  not  in  pain.&quot;  They  drive  past  the  street  where  Maria's  office  is.  Richard's  car  is  there,  parked  at  the  deep-shaded  end  of  the  street.  The  street  looks  like  a  street  in  a  movie;  it  has  that  air  of  false  peace.  MARIA  takes  Andy  (who  has  had  the  flu)  to  see  Dr.  Don.  It  is  mid-fall  by  this  time-clear,  cold,  bril-  liant  days-and  the  pains  in  Maria's  arms  are  worse  than  ever.  Whatever  they  are,  they  can't  be  rheumatism.  Don  has  moved  to  a  community  clinic  with  a  sign  on  the  door  saying  &quot;MEDI-  CAL  CARE  IS  A  RIGHT,  NOT  A  PRIVI-  LEGE.&quot;  In  the  waiting  room  there  are  notices  of  abortion-referral  services  and  clippings  about  diet  and  smoking,  and  there's  an  article  headlined  &quot;BEACH  BOYS  GET  VD  BUT  NO  TENSION  HEADACHES.&quot;  Don  looks  into  Andy's  eyes  with  his  iridology  light.  When  he's  finished  he  says  that  Andy  has  a  very  good  con-  stitution.  &quot;Much  better  than  yours,&quot;  he  says  to  Maria.  &quot;Your  mother  prob-  ably  had  the  flu  when  she  was  expect-  ing  you.&quot;  &quot;Am  I  finished  now?&quot;  Andy  asks  them.  &quot;You  can  go,&quot;  Don  says.  When  Andy  has  left,  Don  says  to  Maria,  &quot;Don't  be  too  panicky  about  all  of  this,  You  were  a  long  time  getting  into  this  condition;  you  can  expect  to  be  a  long  time  getting  out  of  it.  You've  had  years  of  using  tar  paste  and  cor-  tisone  cream;  you've  had  a  lot  of  X-  rays,  you've  taken  sedatives.  .  ..&quot;  Maria  bows  her  head.  She's  think-  ing  of  all  the  junk  she's  taken,  also  of  all  the  nights  she  drank  herself  to  sleep  with  hard  liquor  and  tap  water.  &quot;Every  day  I  see  people  who  are  desperate  to  make  themselves  better  after  years  of  eating  wrong  and  not  getting  exercise,&quot;  Don  says.  &quot;But  they  don't  know  how  to  go  about  it,  there's  so  much  conflicting  advice.&quot;  &quot;And  they've  got  to  the  point  where  they're  afraid  to  trusttheir  instincts?&quot;  &quot;They've  got  to  the  point  where  they  don't  heve  any  instincts,&quot;  Don  says.  It's  time  for  her  to  go.  She  can  feel  that  Don  is  going  to  hug  her  goodbye,  she  can  feel  him  priming  himself  to  do  it.  They  stand  up  at  the  same  time,  and  Don  hugs  her  and  she  hugs  him  back.  When  she  gets  her  coat  from  the  coat-  rack  out  in  the  hall  she  thinks  how  in-  evitable  that  was,  how  it's  all  part  of  the  scene  here-the  waiting  room  that  looks  like  an  old  lady's  parlor,  the  nurses  in  their  jeans  and  oldsweaters,  and  on  the  rack  two  coats  that  she  guesses  must  belong  to  the  nurses:  two  broad-shouldered,  eroded  fur  jackets.  HE  first  snow  comes,  and  with  it  comes  a  windfall:  Norman,  who  has  sold  the  house  they  used  to  live  in,  shares  the  profits  with  her.  She  thinks  of  taking  a  trip.  She  has  never  wanted  to  go  to  [REDACTED],  but  [REDACTED]  is  the  clos-  est  warm  place,  so  that's  where  she  de-  cides  to  go.  She  is  to  leave  right  after  New  Year's.  On  the  afternoon  of  Christmas  Eve,  Maria  goes  downtown  to  the  Byward  market.  It's  a  warm,  rainy  day,  and  the  air  of  Christmas  carnage  she  looked  forward  to  (the  smell  of  tree  bark,  the  slashed  sound  of  bells)  is  partly  undone  by  the  rain  and  by  the  fleet  of  panel  trucks  parked  at  the  mouth  of  the  mar-  " b"ket  and  filled  with  flowers.  She  is  look-  ing  at  the  daisies-she  wants  to  buy  several  bunches  of  yellow  ones-when  she  notices  that  a  young  woman  buying  flowers  from  the  neighboring  truck  is  watching  her.  Maria  smiles  at  this  woman-she  thinks  she  must  have  met  her  at  some  party-and  the  woman  smiles  back.  Then  it  hits  Maria,  what  party  they  met  at:  the  woman  is  Steve's  wife.  They  seem  to  turn  away  from  each  other  at  the  same  moment,  each  one  devoting  herself  to  the  buying  of  flowers.  In  [REDACTED],  Maria  dreams  of  her  fa-  ther.  In  the  dream  he  is  still  alive  and  living  in  the  house  she  was  born  in.  She  wants  desperately  to  get  to  see  him.  She  is  walking  across  a  great  field  of  high  grass.  Then  she  comes  to  a  trench  that  stretches  the  whole  length  of  the  field  and  is  very  deep.  She  looks  into  it  and  sees  that  if  she  ever  fell  down  in  there  she  would  never  get  out  again.  But  she  leaps  across  easily  and  con-  tinues  on  her  way.  When  she  gets  to  the  house  it  is  completely  closed  up.  She  rings  the  doorbell,  but  no  one  comes.  She  rings  it  three  times  and  at  last  she  sees  her  father,  looking  as  if  he  had  just  been  awakened  from  a  deep  sleep,  coming  to  open  the  door.  He  looks  sad-she  can  see  him  and  his  sad-  ness  through  the  walls  of  the  house-  but  she  doesn't  think  his  sadness  has  anything  to  do  with  her.  In  part  of  this  dream  her  father  is  Richard.  Maria  writes  a  letter  to  Tom  and  Andy  and  a  postcard  to  Richard  and  everyone  else  at  work.  She  writes  pretty  much  the  same  thing  in  both.  She  de-  scribes  the  beach  (how  white  it  is)  and  the  long,  antlike  lines  of  promenaders  moving-'&quot;in  nineteenth-century  fash-  ion&quot;  -endlessly  up  and  down  the  shore-  line  in  their  overcoats.  &quot;The  wind,&quot;  she  writes,  &quot;blows  in  from  the  Gulf  of  [REDACTED],  and  is  bitterly  cold;  there  are  a  few  shell  collectors,  no  swimmers,  a  few  joggers  wearing  gloves.&quot;  The  best  part  of  her  day  is  the  eve-  ning.  She  takes  a  long  walkon  the  wet  sand  every  day  at  sunset.  She  seldom  meets  anyone,  and  when  she  does  it  is  almost  always  a  solitary  soul  like  her-  self.  Her  heart  has  a  rule  of  thumb  for  the  few  people  she  does  meet-if  the  dark  figure  comes  toward  her  at  a  walk  her  heart  goes  on  alert  and  her  arm  presses  her  shoulder  bag  tight  to  her  side,  but  if  the  figure  comes  at  her  in  a  run  her  heart  and  arm  don't  respond  at  all.  All  a  thief  would  have  to  do,  she  thinks,  is  jog.  When  the  sky  is  com-  pletely  dark  and  all  the  little  hotels  along  the  beach  have  turned  on  their  lights,  she  hurries  back  to  her  room.  She  makes  herself  supper  and  tea,  and  after  supper  she  takes  a  long  bath  and  then  lies  on  one  of  the  big  beds  and  reads.  She  keeps  the  door  to  the  bal-  cony  open  so  that  she  can  hear  the  waves  coming  in  on  the  beach.  Two  nights  it  rains,  and  she  stands  awhile  out  on  the  balcony  with  her  winter  coat  tied  on  over  her  nightgown  and  looks  down  at  the  rain  falling  into  the  gar-  bage  pit  and  the  parking  lot  and  the  ocean.  She  thinks  about  Tom  and  Andy,  who  are  staying  with  Norman,  and  wonders  what  they  aredoing.  She  wonders  if  Tom  has  borrowed  Nor-  man's  car  and  driven  out  into  the  hills  to  go  night-skiing.  She  tries  to  imagine  him  skiing  at  that  latitude,  in  the  fierce  cold,  under  stars,  but  has  trouble  with  it.  Instead,  she  sees  him  lying  on  his  bed,  reading.  Andy  she  imagines  watch-  ing  television,.  Norman  is  reading  the  paper.  Maybe  there  is  even  a  storm.  She  takes  a  taxi  downtown  to  a  health-food  store.  The  day  is  cold  and  gray.  The  taxi-driver  says  that  this  winter  is  even  worse  than  last  winter  and  everyone  thought  last  winter  was  terrible.  In  the  store,  Maria  buys  al-  monds  and  peppermint  tea.  When  she  is  paying  for  them  she  notices  a  flyer  announcing  a  talk  by  a  man  named  George  Someone.  He  has  a  saint's  face-a  saint's  or  a  fanatic's,  Accord-  ing  to  the  flyer,  he  is  a  physiotherapist  who  worked  with  the  American  Army  in  [REDACTED],  where  he  learned  some  Oriental  pressure  techniques  from  the  Montagnard  tribesmen.  When  she  gets  back  to  her  hotel  room  she  phones  his  office  and  makes  an  appointment  for  the  following  day.  The  next  morning  is  almost  warm,  " b"feels  almost  like  a  real  [REDACTED]  morn-  ing.  And  George,  when  she  meets  him,  doesn't  look  fanatical  at  all;  also,  he  looks  too  young  to  have  been  in  the  war.  He  takes  her  into  a  treatment  room  and  gives  her  a  pale-green  hos-  pital  gown  and  a  pair  of  pale-green  shorts,  then  leaves  her  alone  to  change.  She  is  puzzled  by  the  shorts  but  then  realizes  they've  been  proffered  in  case  she  has  come  without  panties.  She  de-  cides  that  American  women  must  be  sexually  more  forward  than  Canadian  women-no  clinic  in  [REDACTED]  ever  sup-  plied  her  with  any  shorts-or  maybe  it's  American  men  who  are  more  de-  mure  than  Canadian  men.  Or  maybe  she's  just  being  hit  by  a  traveller's  need  for  a  theory.  When  George  comes  back  into  the  room  Mariawarns  him  about  her  skin.  She  always  feels  she  should  do  this  whenever  she  has  any  kind  of  treat-  ment,  because  she  wants  to  prevent  herself  hearing  the  other  person's  shocked  intake  of  breath  when  he  un-  does  the  ties  of  her  gown-no  one  can  tell  there  is  anything  wrong  with  her  by  just  seeing  her  face.  &quot;I've  seen  worse  cases  than  this,&quot;  George  says,  very  kindly.  &quot;I've  also  got  quite  a  bit  of  pain  in  my  right  shoulder,&quot;  she  says,  and  after  he's  worked  on  her  shoulder  for  a  while  she  says,  &quot;A  physiotherapist  I  went  to  back  home  said  that  the  karmic  mean-  ing  of  pain  in  the  right  shoulder  is  re-  sentment,  that  maybe  there  are  people  I  need  to  forgive.&quot;  She  is  thinking  of  her  mother-her  mother  and  a  few  others.  &quot;Maybe  you  need  to  forgive  your-  self,&quot;  George  says,  and  thenhe  talks  to  her  about  herbs  and  tells  her  how  he  cured  a  baby's  colic  by  feeding  it  bottles  of  catnip  tea.  George  also  has  iridology  equipment  and  he  looks  into  Maria's  eyes  with  it.  &quot;Liver,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Also  heart.&quot;  George  recommends  some  books  to  Maria,  one  of  them  a  book  on  herbs  that  she  sits  out  in  the  sun  and  reads  that  afternoon.  For  nervousness  it  ad-  vises  red  sage,  skullcap,  and  catnip.  It  saysthat  one  greatcause  of  nervous-  ness  is  novel-reading.  Later  that  day  a  wind  comes  up  and  it  turns  very  cold.  The  wind  makes  her  feel  as  if  she  has  a  bad  toothache  in  her  right  shoulder  blade.  The  next  day  is  no  better,  and  that  night,  when  she  is  taking  her  pre-  supper  walk  along  the  beach,  she  sud-  denly  admits  to  herself  that  she  wants  to  go  home.  She  goes  up  to  her  room  and  phones  Air  [REDACTED]'s  toll-free  number  in  wherever  it  is-she  guesses  it's  in  [REDACTED]-and,  to  her  amazement,  is  able  to  get  a  flight  out  of  Tampa  first  thing  the  next  morning.  Then  she  goes  down  to  the  desk  and  says  to  one  of  the  boys  there,  &quot;I'm  checking  out  to-  morrow;  I  can't  stand  the  cold,&quot;  and  the  boy  says,  &quot;I  don't  blame  you.&quot;  All  the  way  back  to  her  room  she  thinks,  That  was  easy,  that  was  easy.  A  I  HE  day  after  she  gets  back  home  Mariamakes  two  appoint-  ments-one  with  a  doctor  who  Dr.  Hardy  suggested  might  be  ableto  help  her  with  the  pain  in  her  shoulder,  one  with  an  herbalist.  She  goes  to  see  the  herbalist  first.  The  herbalist's  name  is  Monsieur  Lamarre  and  he  looks  like  Maria's  idea  of  a  chef-big  belly,  benign  smile.  &quot;Bad  circulation,&quot;  he  says  when  she  has  described  her  symptoms.  &quot;I  have  here  herbs  to  clean  you  out.&quot;  &quot;I  was  afraid  there  might  be  some-  thing  wrong  with  my  liver,&quot;  she  says  in  a  low  voice.  &quot;I  was  afraid  of  cancer.&quot;  &quot;'There  is  no  cancer  anywhere  in  your  body,&quot;  he  says,  &quot;I  am  clairvoy-  ant-I  can  tell.  It  is  your  heart  I  wor-  ry  about-the  angina.  You  must  be  very  careful  of  this.  Is  there  heart  trou-  ble  in  your  family?&quot;  &quot;My  father  died  of  a  heart  attack.  My  mother  had  one,  too.&quot;  Monsieur  Lamarre  checks  &quot;Heart&quot;  on  his  questionnaire,  &quot;Diabetes?&quot;  &quot;Both  sides.&quot;  " b"&quot;Diabetes,  both  sides,  ow,&quot;  says  Monsieur  Lamarre.  &quot;Nervousness?&quot;  Maria  smiles.  &quot;Nervousness,  ow?,&quot;  says  Monsieur  Lamarre.  &quot;Out,  out,  out,  out.&quot;  They  both  laugh.  Then  Monsieur  Lamarre  leans  back  in  his  chair  and  looks  at  a  spot  on  the  floor.  &quot;You  have  not  hadan  easy  life,&quot;  he  says,  and  she  wants  to  cry  out,  Oh,  that  is  true!  At  the  same  time,  she  recalls  all  the  times  she  has  been  abnormally  lazy,  has  let  life  go  sliding  by.  &quot;You  are  a  hard  worker,&quot;  says  Monsieur  Lamarre.  &quot;Of  course,  it  is  hard  when  aperson  does  not  have  someone  to  care  for  her.  I  am  not  just  talking  about  sex,  I  am  also  talking  about  someone  to  really  love  you  and  carefor  you.  You  do  not  have  this  in  your  life  at  this  time.&quot;  He  doesn't  look  at  her  when  he  says  this,  he  doesn't  need  her  eyes  to  acknowl-  edge  that  what  he  says  is  true:  he  be-  lievesin  his  own  clairvoyance.  The  doctor  recommended  by  Dr.  Hardy  is  young,  but  he  has  stern,  hyp-  notic  eyes.  He  asks  her  to  get  undressed.  &quot;This  is  the  hardest  thing  I'm  going  to  ask  you  to  do,&quot;  he  says.  His  voice  sur-  prises  her;  itis  so  kind.  She  stands  naked  before  him.  But  he  looks  into  her  eyes.  &quot;Your  pupils  are  fairly  dilated,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;'They're  always  dilated.  I  think  it's  because  I'm  nearsighted.&quot;  'You  see  nearsightedness  as  a  cause.  I  see  it  as  an  [REDACTED];  &quot;What  is  the  cause,  then?&quot;  &quot;When  you  were  a  little  girl,  some-  thing  made  you  openyour  eyestoo  wide.  You  tried  to  see  everything  and  you  ended  up  not  seeing  very  much.  My  guess  is  that  you  let  people  push  you  around.&quot;  He  paces  around  her,  frowning;  she  feels  like  a  horse  ora  slave  on  the  block-his  look  is  so  shrewd  and  total.  &quot;You  would  believe  almost  any-  thing  anyone  told  you,&quot;  he  says.  Nor-  man  used  to  say  that,  too.  (Norman,  who  was  always  bossing  her  around.)  &quot;Also,  you  keep  your  knees  locked.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  do  I?  Why  do  I  do  that?&quot;  &quot;Fear,&quot;  he  says  in  a  light  voice.  &quot;Of  what?&quot;  &quot;Someone  was  always  at  you  when  you  were  small.  Wouldn't  let  you  be.&quot;  He  kneels  to  her  knees  to  unlock  them.  She  starts  to  cry.  &quot;That's  right.  Cry,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;But  I  cry  easily.  Always  have.&quot;  &quot;But  do  you  cry  right?  Do  you  cry  with  your  body?  Or  are  you  just  crying  up  in  your  head?&quot;  &quot;I  cry  as  quietly  as  I  can,  usually,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;Well,  yes,  that's  what  I  see  when  I  look  at  your  body.  A  tremendous  still-  ness.  You've  stilled  your  body  so  much.  It's  as  if  your  body  is  saying,  'I'll  be  quiet,  I'll  be  good,  I  won't  have  tem-  per  tantrums,  I'll  work  hard,  I'll  study  hard,  and  I'll  think,  think,  think.&quot;  You  must  get  very  very  tired  of  being  so  good  all  the  time.&quot;  It  is  a  moment  before  she  is  able  to  answer  him.  When  she  does  she  says,  &quot;I  [REDACTED]; "