 b"EARL  took  me  to  the  Caf\xc3\xa9  Chro-  E  mosome.  His  choice,  my  birth-  day,  his  money,  party  of  two.  The  effects  there  are  very  effectual:  the  famous  Shivering  Chandelier,  six  tables,  twelve  gold  service  plates  en-  graved  &quot;Most  People  Are  Not  Here,&quot;  seating  capacity  held  artificially  low  so  that  the  maximum  number  of  the  res-  ervationless  are  turned  away.  I  want-  ed  to  lower  myself  to  the  atmosphere.  Stan  and  Florine  came  in.  Earl  said  to  me,  &quot;Are  you  sure  that  Stan  is  as  faith-  ful  to  you  as  he  makes  out?  Because  he  has  told  me  another  story.&quot;  I  hated  Earl  then  for  his  talebearing  and  could  think  of  but  one  thing-twosomes-  and  could  do  but  two  things-go,  and  send  Stan  a  note  to  say  I  would  be  at  the  place  next  door.  My  choice,  my  birthday,  my  money,  party  of  one.  When  I  got  to  Chez  les  Cent  Un  Dalmatiens,  Earl  was  there,  flecked  with  impatience,  and  when  he  said  we  must  talk,  I  shook  my  head  no:  there  was  just  enough  darkness  for  blurting  and  just  enough  light  for  em-  barrassment,  just  enough  privacy  for  a  regrettable  scene  and  just  enough  ex-  posure  for  a  classic  scene,  just  enough  food  in  the  kitchen  to  turn  Earl  rather  amiable  and  just  enough  drink  in  the  cellar  to  turn  him  perfect;  but  when  he  tried  to  go,  I  couldn't  bear  to  be  without  someone  to  be  with-not,  at  least,  while  Stan  and  Florine  were  forking  it  in  next  door,  Stan  longing  for  my  next  message,  Wthh  said,  &quot;No.  Not  her.  Me.&quot;  Which  I  was  too  proud  to  send,  so  I  suggested  we  share  a  cab  to  another  place.  At  Lord  Lipid's,  men  in  livery  kow-  towed,  and  the  drinks  came  in  cups  of  bridle  leather.  Earl  asked  me  what  I  wanted,  and  I  said  Stan,  but  Earl  said  that  wasn't  what  he  meant.  &quot;Then,&quot;  I  said  coldly,  &quot;I  want  to  have  my  sig-  nature  honored.  I  want  to  be  swathed  in  miles  of  challis.&quot;  Earl  looked  hurt.  A  combo  played,  hautboy  and  cocktail  comb.  I  had  tears  in  my  eyes,  I  had  hurt  him,  I  wanted  to  have  had  a  convalescent  brother  kis  me  through  the  dining-room  window  at  Field  Place,  Stan  came  in.  He  could  only  stay  a  moment,  Florine  waited.  He  asked  me  why  I  was  upset,  and  I  said  because  I  didn't  mind  his  having  din-  ner  with  Florine.  He  said  they  were  having  drinks,  not  dinner,  and  in  any  case  didn't  I  know  how  very,  very  pretty  I  was  even  though  what  I  had  said  was  the  sheerest  nonsense?  A  wrong  and  senseless  joy-but  at  that  Earl  picked  up  the  bread  knife  and  held  it  to  the  throat  of  a  loaf  of  bread, saying,  &quot;Don't  worry-you  two  are  next.&quot;  Then  he  dropped  the  knife  and  looked  hurt.  Stan  said,  &quot;A  little  lithium  would  do  no  harm  there,&quot;  and  went  away-he  missed  Florine,  who  was  outside  and  was  also  very  pretty.  To  cheer  Earl  up,  I  took  him  in  a  cab  to  Early  Bacon,  where  they  have  bunny  china.  He  was  so  hurt  that  I  wanted  to  live  with  him  to  a  ripe  grandevity.  I  held  his  hand  for  a  sec-  ond.  Then  Florine  arrived.  Washed-  out,I  thought,  as  pretty  women  so  often  get;  but  when  at  the  door  they  made  her  put  on  a  plastic  bib  although  she  insisted  she  couldn't  eat,  to  see  her  humiliated  made  me  feel  more  kindly.  She  told  us  she  had  meant  to  live  with  Earl  but  that  Stan  had  said  couples  need  companionship  and  had  moved  in  on  her.  I  watched  Earl  swal-  low  this.  I  flirted  with  her,  wanting  only  to  hurt  Stan,  Earl,  and  her.  Then,  knowing  I  must  leave  the  pair  of  them  to  reconcile,  I  went  out  and  hailed  a  taxi.  At  the  Horse  Leech  Pub,  the  wood-  en  tables  had  new  varnish  over  initials  in  old  varnish,  some  of  them  carved  with  my  own  utility  blade.  I  brooded  about  the  past,  I  wanted  to  settle  hash.  Stan  came  in  and  said,  &quot;'Nothing  can  be  done,  And  when  I  say  nothing,  I  mean  there  are  certain  things  we  could  try  that  would  be  pointless.&quot;  &quot;Such  as?&quot;  To  my  left,  a  man  half  turned  away  from  a  woman  was  saying,  &quot;It's  really  wonderful  how  everything's  gone  just  right  for  me.&quot;  I  wanted  to  paste  him  one,  but  first  I  wanted  to  know  too  much  luxury.  Stan  said,  &quot;It  would  be  pointless  for  you  and  me  to  get  it  on  again.  And  when  I  say  pointless,  I  mean  wonder-  ful.&quot;  I  refused.  I  wanted  him  to  say  of  me,  &quot;I  love  her,  although  there  is  no  denying  that  she  is  headstrong.&quot;  I  rose  to  leave,  but  he  thrust  some  flat-  ware  into  his  pockets  (the  utility  of  hav-  ing  a  place  setting  always  about  one's  person!)  and  said  he  could  force  me  to  pack  a  vanity  case  and  join  him  at  his  hideaway  on  Briar  Island.  I  tried  to  make  him  go  back  to  Florine,  but  he  wouldn't,  saying  she  was  some  woman  and  he  planned  to  write  her  biog-  raphy-a  thing,  I  think,  few  men  would  have  bothered  to  do.  I  wanted  no  one  to  write  of  me,  &quot;She  couldn't  want  it  for  herself.&quot;  En  route  to  the  Island,  we  took  a  taxi  to  SaySay  and  crouched  on  our  old  " b"mat  under  the  trellis  in  the  tatami  room.  I  felt  guilty  about  betraying  Earl,  but  there,  in  Stan's  presence,  I  saw  infidelity  to  be  theact  that  makes  fidelity  pos-  sible  for  others.  As  it  turned  out,  for  compli-  cated  reasons  we  never  went  to  Briar  Island  at  all.  Earl  and  Florine  sent  a  message  by  cab  announcing  that  they  were  coming  over  in  a  taxi.  Stan  wanted  to  hang  around,  but  I  said  what  if  Earl  and  Flo-  rine  then  showed  up,  confidently  expecting  us  to  have  bolted?  Stan  wouldn't  listen,  and  I  felt  deceived,  though  of  course  it  wasn't  my  business  to  see  that  peo-  ple  weren't  deceived.  When  Earl  and  Florine  arrived,  eachwith  the  other,  I  asked  her  to  cab  along  with  me  to  a  place  uptown.  The  Grouse  Box  was  charred  black  on  the  outside  and  blood-red  inside,  full  of  dates  falling  in  love  because  they  had  been  thrust  from  insupportable  solitude  into  one  of  a  few  infrequent  and  eagerly  anticipated  evenings  out.  Florine  went  to  the  ladies',  and  when  she  came  back,  she  said,  &quot;Don't  look  now.  Pay  phoneon  the  wall.  Heavyset  guy  talking  on  it,  kneeling.&quot;  I  knew  how  she  felt,  for  we  had  been  in  it  together-the  marches,  taunts,  hoarse-  ness,  purple  banners:  Had  we  done  it  just  for  this'  I  asked  her  what  she  wanted.  &quot;A  fast  waltz  in  a  drawing  room  lighted  by  innumerable  candles.&quot;  I  liked  her  honesty.  We  joked  about  Earl  and  Stan,  how  they  had  lately  been  wearing  their  pants  very  high  to  shorten  the  chest  and  make  it  look  powerful,  and  she  told  me  of  items  she  had  read  in  the  Newsletter  of  the  Affairs  of  Others,  and  I  sensed  that  she  and  I  could  be  lovers  if  one  of  us  were  a  man  with  bedroom  eyes.  Momentarily,  Earl  dashed  in  and  said  Stan  was  to  follow  in  a  taxi.  The  three  of  us  had  a  painful  interview,  Earl  demanding  to  know  if  Florine  wished  to  renounce  him  for  Stan  or  if  I  had  enough  money  to  bribe  Stan  to  support  me.  I  would  not  answer.  Florine  would.  &quot;Oh,  you  and  your  ultimatal!&quot; &quot;'You  call  that  a  decision'?  Well.  This  is  it,  then.&quot;  &quot;If  this  were  #,  it  wouldn't  be  this,&quot;  said  Florine,  and  ran  off.  Earl  was  too  depressed  to  stay,  so  we  left  a  note  for  Stan  and  took  acab  to  a  place  in  the  vicinity.  At  Villa  Alive,  the  menu  listed  only  one  dish,  with  the  annotation  &quot;An  Alternative.&quot;  We  had  hardly  touched  the  water  course  when  Stan  appeared  in  the  doorway,  saw  us,  and  shot  out.  I  asked  Earl  if  he  had  noticed,  but  he  would  not  discuss  it,  and  years  later  I  heard  that  he  still  did  not  speak  of  the  matter.  He  told  me  he  was  fairly  certain  I  owed  him  a  commitment,  since  Florine  had  flat  rejected  him.  I  asked  him  what  he  wanted.  &quot;To  break  your  legs  if  you're  ever  unfaithful  to  me.&quot;  I  wanted  to  dispute  this  modest  view  of  love,  but  scarcely  had  I  pro-  nounced  the  opening  lines  of  my  ar-  gument-&quot;This  wickit  ymaginacioun,  quhich  by  his  name  is  clepit  Jelousye&quot;-  when  I  found  myself  in  a  taxi  next  to  him.  At  Other  Fish  to  Fry,  white  tile  set  off  the  barflies,  taproom  boasts,  trench-  ermen,  and  couples.  In  the  booth  be-  hind  me,  voices:  &quot;'T  heir  sole  amandine  sounds  nice.&quot;  &quot;I  would  quarrel  with  that,  Valerie,  I'm  afraid.  Though  you  are  free  to  dis-  agree.  I'd  like  nothing  more  than  to  hear  you  disagree.  Show  some  spine,  Valerie,  for  a  change.&quot;  &quot;Well,  to  be  honest-maybe  I'm   way  out  of  line  on  this  one,  but  I'm  pretty  positive  that  I  probably  don't  want  the  sole,  I  almost  think.&quot;  &quot;Among  aware,  intelligent  people  there  will  always  be  some  difference  of  opinion.  You  should  have  the  sole,  Val-  erie,  even  if  itis  the  wrong  choice.  No-  body's  keeping  score.&quot;  &quot;Well,  your  willingness  to  discuss  this  has  meant  a  lot.  I  really  appreciate  it.  I  guess  I'll  just  have  the  gravy.&quot;  I  ordered  sole  amandine,  Earl  a  house  salad-snail  shells  and  birds'  nests  in  vinaigrette,  which  returned  him  to  his  theme.  &quot;Even  some  plants  build  nests,  you  know.  Ever  heard  of  the  carpenter  gardenia?&quot;  &quot;Not  recently.&quot;  He  took  some  color  slides  from  his  wallet  and  held  them  one  at  a  time  to  the  light  in  such  a  way  that  I  could  not  help  but  view  them.  &quot;Number  One,  the  male  gardenia  painstakingly  con-  structs  a  maisonette  for  its  spouse.  Yes,  throughout  the  vegetable  kingdom  pairing  is  the  rule.  Number  Two,  a  maleand  a  female  copperhead  wend  their  way  aboard  the  ark  at  Tallahas-  see's  World  of  Couples.  Number  Three,  these  bug  mates  feel  no  need  for  speculation  on  thenatural  order  as  they  are  united  in  an  informal  mid-  morning  ceremony.  Number  Four,  hmm,  that  one's  a  disappointment.&quot;  A  dazzling  offer-but  I  wanted  room,  rope,  more  room  for  my  rope.  Stan  came  in  and  told  us  he  was  ter-  rifled  of  keeping  his  promises  to  Flo-  rine.  I  thought  of  him  all  alone  and  Florine  in  God  knows  what  kind  of  " b"nickel-and-grab.  I  wanted  to  say  &quot;Go&quot;  and  then  have  the  prudence  to  say  &quot;Now  come  back.&quot;  I  got  him  outside  but  couldn't  find  him  a  taxi,  so  I  helped  him  make  his  way,  on  foot,  through  a  light  drizzle,  to  a  place.  T  the  Blue  Pill,  the  room  was  warm  and  steamy,  and  I  felt  as  if  the  world  were  enveloped  in  a  va-  porous  envelope,  I  wanted  Stan  to  sug-  gest  with  his  hand  a  place  in  the  air,  I  wanted  to  let  my  weight  take  me  up  and  into  the  place,  to  be  caught  and  set  down  safely  and  left  alone.  &quot;What  is  your  problem?&quot;  We  sat  across  from  each  other-be-  tween  usasquare  of  white  tablecloth,  a  small  volume  of  air.  I  wanted  some-  one  to  force  a  spray  of  stephanotis  in-  to  my  arms,  I  wanted  every  seed  pearl  on  the  Eastern  seaboard  sewn  to  my  bust.  &quot;Do  you  know  how  fond  I  am  of  you  all?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  and  your  sweet  habit  of  shrinking  and  waffling  at  the  slightest  question,  Florine  and  her  sweet  habit  of  repeating  society  news-  how  can  I  share  what  isn't  mine?&quot;  I  was  holding  my  breath.  &quot;Earl  and  our  common  memory  of  service  in  the  barbiturate  wars-&quot;  I  wanted  to  say  of  him  years  after-  ward,  &quot;He  was  the  only  one  who  didn't  try  to  railroad  me  into  some-  thing  terminal.&quot;  &quot;You  have  your  whole  lives  ahead  of  you.&quot;  At  that  point,  Florine  burst  in.  &quot;Good  heavens!  What  are  you  two  doing  here?  Why  aren't  you  confront,  ing  Earl  and  me  at  the  In  Luck  Rice  Corp.  East?&quot;  She  said  she  must  go  back  at  once,  but  Stan  suddenly  drew  on  our  sympathies  with  an  imaginary  ail-  ment,  so  there  wasno  question  of  her  leaving.  We  ordered  champagne  and  candy,  and  for  Stan  a  cot.  He  sat  under  the  covers,  propped  up  with  pillows,  one  hand  tucked  into  Florine's  placket  and  the  other  into  mine.  I  wanted  to  know  little  of  the  area  save  for  this  rude  map.  &quot;It's  tempting  to  ask  one  of  you  to  marry  me.  But  later  I'd  have  to  chuck  her  for  the  other  one.&quot;  &quot;Serial  chucking.&quot;  &quot;Maybe  we're  changing.&quot;  &quot;Not  again!&quot;  We  arranged  to  all  four  meet  for  a  nightcap  at  a  place  we  had  heard  of  over  in  [REDACTED].  At  Adjust  Moon,  there  wasno  at-  mosphere,  except  forthe  Dribbling  Shotglasses,  with  which  we  toasted  my  birthday.  We  all  held  hands  across  the  paper  tablecloth,  pleased  with  one  an-  other,  Florine  and  I  much,  much  more  comfortable  together,  until  Earl  spoiled  things  by  writing  on  a  matchbook  the  name  of  the  person  each  of  us  would  endup  with  and  then,  without  show-  ing  it,  burning  it  in  the  ashtray.  At  a  time  when  so  many  might  despair,  we  got  out  of  hand.  First  Florine  and  I  defied  Stan  and  Earl,  then  Stan  and  Florine  defied  Earl  and  me,  we  defied  them,  Stan  and  I  defied  Florine  and  Earl,  they  defied  us,  and  finally  Earl  and  Stan  defied  Florine  and  me.  Ev-  eryone  refused  to  leave  everyone.  Lux-  urious  lobster  nights!  -but  Earl  said  " b"that  we  confusedhap-  piness  with  our  private  interests,  that  instead  we  should  confuse  it  with  his  and  pair  off  arbitrarily  in  the  nor-  mal  way,  that  the  course  of  evolution  could  not  be  changed  by  a  foursome  in  a  sin-  gle  nightclub.  &quot;Moon  gas,&quot;  said  Florine.  Earl  said  that,  granted,  he  didn't  know  which  one  he  wanted,  her  or  me,  but  whichever  it  was,  he  wanted  that  one  all  to  himself,  he  wanted  to  reject  the  other  one,  he  wanted  to  cultivate  hostility  between  the  two  of  us.  &quot;Be  fair,&quot;  said  Stan.  Earl  said  he  didn't  want  fairness,  he  wanted  me  or  her,  though  naturally  we  were  free  to  disagree.  We  did  disagree.  Earl  said,&quot;I'll  give  you  this:  you  might  be  on  to  something.  But  you're  going  a  dumb  way  with  it.&quot;  Goodbye,  Earl,  and  good  luck!  We  didn't  try  enough,  we  didn't  give  him  enough  of  a  chance.  He  didn't  love  us  enough,  not  enough  for  my  money,  not  enough  to  go  around.  There  wasn't  enough  love  in  him  to  dust  a  fiddle.  True  enough.  Well,  why  make  a  meal  of  it?  Enough  said.  There  were  spots  we  hadn't  hit  yet,  so  thethree  of  us  hit  them.  We  went  to  the  Kidney  Garden,  and  the  French  Way,  and  Unter  dem  Dirndl.  Every-  body  was  awake,  the  Garland  restau-  rant  grills  were  heated  to  a  surface  temperature  impossible  to  get  on  a  home  unit,  people  whose  greed  was  different  from  ours  in  some  cases  and  in  some  cases  not  were  ordering  all  the  courses  in  the  correct  progression  and  saying  &quot;What's  the  damage?&quot;  We  went  to  Parolles',  and  Ovos  Fervidos,  and  Three  Ack  Emma.  Customers  gazed  at  the  far  rims  of  their  cups  and  glasses  as  they  drank;  we  thought  of  Earl,  of  the  loneliness  between  the  time  you  abandon  what  wasn't  enough  and  the  time  you  find  what  won't  be  enough,  We  went  to  How's  Your  Fa-  ther,  to  the  Cod's  Head  Inn  and  the  Cod's  Head  du  Soir.  There  were  many  arrangements  of  people  talking  while  someone  present  or  absent  got  left  out;  alphabets  of  elbow  positions  on  tables;  waits,  delicacies,  tall  orders.  We  crum-  pled  our  linen  napkins,  which  opened  again  on  their  own,  and  then  we  went  dancing  to  a  combo-drum,  vocalist,  and  another  drum-at  Necktie  Party.  At  dawn,  we  walked,  changing  places:  man  woman  woman,  woman  man  woman,  woman  woman  man.  The  streets  were  empty.  We  had  no  plan.  At  an  intersection,  ared  van  turned  the  corner  toward  us.  A  second,  a  third,  a  fleet  followed.  Their  sides  were  painted  with  the  words  &quot;Swing-  ing  and  Revolving  Doors-Sales-  Service-Repair-Modernization.&quot;  Then,  as  the  first  van  passed  us,  it  sounded  its  klaxon.  Van  after  van  caught  the  spirit.  Horns  filled  the  air  in  awkward  greeting,.  We  waved,  and  walked  for  a  while  longer,  three  abreast:  Stan  on  the  inside,  lest  slops  hurled  from  a  window  soil  Florine  or  me;  Florine  on  the  outside,  lest  a  taxicab  splatter  me  or  Stan;  me  in  the  center,  lest  Stan  or  Florine  feel  left  out. "