 b"ONCE  as  well  liked  as  any  guy  O  in  his  class,  Joe  was  generally  avoided  during  hislast  years  at  the  seminary-sometimes  referred  to  as  a  gadfly,  which  he  didn't  mind;  sometimes  as  a  pain  in  the  ass,  which  he  did.  His  unpopularity  was  flattering  in  a  way-in  the  light  of  &quot;If  the  world  hate  you,  know  ye  that  it  hath  hated  me  before  you,&quot;  but  that  was  pushing  it  in  Joe's  case,  Besides,  too  many  freaks  and  losers  took  comfort  in  Scripture,  and  Joe  didn't  see  himself  as  either.  He  came  from  a  family  more  than  just  well-to-do,  and,  unlike  most  of  his  classmates  (but  like  St.  Augustine),  he  had  lived  some  before  discovering  his  vocation  to  the  priesthood.  So  he  couldn't  be  looked  down  on,  nor  could  his  views  be  gainsaid  on  the  ground  that  it  was  a  species  of  pride  for  him  to  cite  Doctors  of  the  Church  in  sup-  port  of  them,  though  this  was  often  tried  by  his  critics.  &quot;Pride?&quot;  he'd  replied.  (He'd  replied  a  lot  at  the  seminary.)  &quot;I'd  cite  you  guys  if  you  ever  said  any-  thing  worth  citing.&quot;  That  was  his  style.  It  wasn't  so  much  his  all-around  un-  popularity  as  something  said  to  him  in  the  confessional  (&quot;We  have  to  watch  ourselves.  A  holier-than-thou  attitude  toward  others  doesn't  become  us  in  the  sight  of  God&quot;)  that  made  Joe  decide,  about  a  month  before  ordination,  to  show  more  charity  toward  others.  Maybe  there  hadn't  been  time  enough  for  others  to  notice  the  change  in  him,  though,  for  he  was  still  generally  avoided.  About  a  month  after  or-  dination,  at  the  class's  first  little  get-together,  to  which  he  had  to  be  invited  (he  did  see  it  like  that)  and  which  was  held  in  a  private  room  in  a  restaurant,  Joe  watched  himself  (that  is,  shut  up)  and  listened  to  the  clerical  shoptalk.  He  enjoyed  it,  too,  though  not  as  much  as  some  of  the  others  at  the  big  table  for  twelve.  Mooney  and  Roo-  ney  gloried  in  it.  But  it  went  on  too  long,  and  thinking,  Oh-oh,  here  I  go  again,  Joe  said,  &quot;W.  G.  Ward.  That  name  mean  anything  to  you  guys?  No?  Well,  Ward,  and  not  Newman,  was  the  first  convert  from  the  Oxford  Movement.  He  says  any  priest  without  personal  knowledge  of  Christ,  which  knowledge  can  only  come  from  contemplation'&quot;-  Joe  had  supplied  and  stressed  that  part  to  make  his  point  better-&quot;ought  to  seek  out  some  desolate  island  soas  to  live  alone  and  do  no  harm.&quot;  &quot;Words,&quot;  said  Cooney,  once  Joe's  best  friend  but  cool  to  him  since  Joe  had  got  religion,  as  Cooney  told  it.  (Joe  hated  the  hillbilly  sound  of  that,  as  he  did  Cooney's  worldlier-than-thou  attitude.)  &quot;Hard  words,  Joe.&quot;  &quot;No  harder  than  those  of  Our  Lord  to  Martha,&quot;  Joe  replied.  &quot;But  you're  not  Our  Lord!&quot;  cried  a  couple  of  deep  thinkers  at  the  table.  Joe  ignored  them.  He  quoted  from  Luke  10,  where  Martha  complains  that  she  has  her  hands  full  serving  Our  Lord  and  the  Disciples  and  could  use  some  help  from  Mary,  her  sister,  who  sits  listening  to  the  conversation,  and  Our  Lord  replies,  &quot;Mary  hath  chosen  the  best  part.&quot;  &quot;'Try  telling  that  to  the  Chancery,&quot;  said  Rooney,  who  had  earlier  been  complaining  or  bragging  about  having  to  do  all  the  work  in  the  parish  where  he  was  the  assistant.  &quot;Contemplation's  all  very  well,&quot;  said  Mooney,  whom  Joe  regarded  as  none  too  bright  and  pretty  lucky  to  havebeen  ordained.  &quot;Some  of  the  saints,  I  know,  went  in  for  it.  But  it's  still  an  extra.  We  have  to  make  a  dis-tinction,  Joe,  between  following  the  counsels  of  perfection  and  doing  the  job-and  a  mighty  big  job  it  is-  we've  been  ordained  to  do.  How  many  of  us  can  do  both?&quot;  &quot;'That  so-called  distinction  is  the  biggest  out  in  all  theology,&quot;  Joe  re-  plied.  &quot;Why  mot  do  both?  At  least  try.&quot;  &quot;You're  doing  both  at  Holy  Faith?&quot;  said  Rooney.  Cooney  cut  in,  &quot;According  to  Lefty  Beeman&quot;  (a  problem  priest,  always  on  the  move;  formerly  at  Holy  Faith,  he  was  now  an  assistant  at  St.  Isidore's  with  Cooney),  &quot;the  assistant  at  Holy  Faith  does  the  job,  the  pastor  does  the  contemplating.&quot;  Joe  replied,  &quot;Well,  of  course,  I  haven't  been  there  as  long  as  Beeman  was.  How  long  was  he  there?  Six  months?&quot;  This  was  not  only  cruel  but  wasted,  and  Joe,  regretting  it,  shut  up  and  listened  to  the  others  discuss  the  situation  at  Holy  Faith.  &quot;'T  wo  oddballs  in  one  parish.&quot;  &quot;Certainly  an  odd  appointment.&quot;  &quot;Crazy.&quot;  &quot;Not  fair  to  Joe-as  a  new  man,  I  mean.&quot;  &quot;Not  fair  to  the  pastor,  you  mean.&quot;  &quot;Not  fair  to  the  paertshioners.&quot;  \xc2\xab''The  Archbishop's  slipping.&quot;  HIS  appointment  to  Holy  Faith,  as  assistant  to  Father  Van  Slaag,  the  only  known  contemplative  in  the  di- " b"ocese  (among  pastors),  was  not  crazy,  Joe  believed.  No,  the  Chancery  must  have  heard  of  his  hard  times  at  the  seminary,  where  he'd  been  the  only  known  contemplative-he  didn't  really  qualify  as  such,  he  knew,  unless  maybe  by  desire,  but  he  did  have  that  reputa-  tion-and  the  Archbishop  must  have  decided  to  make  it  two  of  akind  at  Holy  Faith.  It  was  an  odd  appoint-  ment,  perhaps,  but  it  appeared  odder  than  it  was  to  those  who  recalled  the  efforts  ofthe  old  Archbishop  to  strike  a  balance  in  parishes  by  pairing  athletes  with  aesthetes,  scholars  with  dunces,  fat  kine  with  lean.  The  new  Arch-  bishop  was  known  to  have  said  that  his  priests  had  enough  to  do  without  work-  ing  out  on  each  other;  not  that  it  was  his  policy  to  accommodate  everybody-  poker  players,  hi-fers,  photographers,  astronomers,  activists,  liturgists-and  not  that  some  of  his  appointments  didn't  smack  of  old-fashioned  therapy:  a  lush  in  the  suburbs  who'd  lost  his  driver's  license  could  find  himself  walk-  ing  the  corridors  of  a  five-hundred-bed  hospital  in  the  city  as  a  chaplain  under  the  thumb  of  nuns;  a  big  spender  could  find  himself  operating  under  the  buddy  or  commissar  system,  with  an  assistant  empowered  to  act  for  him  and  the  parish  in  all  money  matters  over  two  dollars  and  fifty  cents.  Joe  believed  that  his  appointment,  in  a  similar  way-not,  of  course,  in  the  same  way-showed  special  concern  on  the  part  of  the  Archbishop,  by  whose  wisdom  and  grace  both  pastor  and  as-  sistant  at  Holy  Faith  were  spared  that  heckling  suspicion  that  is  the  lot  of  contemplatives,  and  even  more  of  would-be  contemplatives,  in  the  mod-  ern  world.  With  no  need  to  apologize  or  explain,  as  each  would  have  had  to  do  with  any  other  priest  in  the  diocese,  they  could  get  on  with  or,  in  Joe's  case,  down  to  the  job  of  working  and  praying  for  their  personal  sanctification  and  salvation  (and  their  parishioners'  ).  And  that  was  what  they  were  doing,  though  not  everything  was  perfect  at  Holy  Faith.  There  was  the  problem  of  the  house-  keeper,  Mrs.  Cox,  a  plump  tough-  talking  TV  fan,  who  called  Father  Van  Slaag  Van  to  his  face  and  Slug  to  her  friends  on  the  phone.  (And  Joe  was  pretty  sure  he  was  the  one  she  referred  to  as  Shorty.)  There  was  the  problem  of  Mrs.  Cox's  dog,  Boots,  a  female  bull  terrier  that  would  go  for  your  ankles  unless  you  carried  a  weapon.  (&quot;She's  all  right,&quot;  the  housekeeper  would  say  with  a  hearty  laugh.  &quot;She  just  hates  men.&quot;)  Joe  had  found  a  cane  in  the  umbrella  stand  and  took  it  with  him  whenever  he  left  his  bed-  room.  There  was  also  the  problem  of  Fa-  ther  Van  Slaag.  Joe,  for  his  part,  had  hoped  to  spend  most  of  his  free  time  in  the  church,  in  the  presence  of  the  Blessed  Sacrament,  but  Father  Van  Slaag  was  already  doing  this--the  man  practically  lived  in  the  church.  Pastor  and  assistant  at  first  were  absent  from  the  rectory  for  long  periods,  until  Joe  asked  himself,  &quot;Shepherd,  what  of  the  sheep?&quot;  'This  question,  which  could  have  come  from  Satan  (who  would  doubtless  employ  any  means  to  get  a  priest  off  his  knees  and  out  of  a  church)  or  from  the  Archbishop,  was  resolved  for  Joe  after  he  discovered  that  he  couldn't  concentrate,  let  alone  contem-  plate,  when  Father  Van  Slaag  was  in  the  church,  as  he  was  whenever  Joe  went  there.  Not  wanting  to  ask  when  his  free  time  was,  or  when  Father  Van  Slaag's  wasn't,  Joe  moved  an  old  prie-  dieu,  which  had  been  serving  as  a  plant  stand,  into  his  bedroom.  He  now  carried  on  from  there  with  his  spiritual  exercises,  and  also-not  the  least  of  his  duties-answered  the  phone  there,  more  often  than  not  while  kneeling  at  the  prie-dieu.  So,  though  not  in  the  church  much,  Joe  was  on  his  knees  a  lot.  When  he  considered  the  state  of  his  knees,  how-  ever,  which  were  only  lightly  callused  (nothing  like  those  he'd  once  seen  on  a  visiting  Trappist  monk  in  the  show-  ers  at  the  seminary-horny  gray  growths  like  the  chestnuts  on  the  legs  of  a  horse),  Joe  felt  he  had  a  long  way  to  go.  The  question  was  whether  a  diocesan  priest-not  the  really  rare  one,  like  Father  Van  Slaag,  but  the  merely  unusual  one,  like  Joe-with  his  ministry  in  and  to  the  world,  which  would  rub  off  on  him,  could  ever  go  very  far;  whether  in  time,  after  constant,  close  association  with  parishioners  and  com-  ing  under  their  subtle  influence,  he  wouldn't  cease  to  be  spiritually,  perhaps  even  mentally,  an  adult.  What  was  true  in  other  fields  of  human  endeavor  at  the  highest  level,  in  the  arts  and  sciences  and  sports-namely,  that  success  in-  volves  a  hell  of  a  lot  of  slogging-just  had  to  be  true,  Joe  believed,  in  the  field  of  spirituality:  not  a  crowded  field  but  the  trickiest  of  all  to  get  any-  where  in.  The  notion,  so  popular  now-  adays,  that  the  best  kind  of  spiri-  tuality  just  happens,  and  is  the  by-  product  of  routine  apostolic  activity,  or,  as  some  of  Joe's  critics  at  the  seminary  had  claimed,  is  actually  the  same  thing-well,  Joe  hadn't  believed  it  then  and  didn't  now.  &quot;''The  priest's  life,&quot;  Joe  said  at  the  class's  next  little  get-together,  to  which  he'd  received  what  had  seemed  to  him  a  last-minute  invita-  tion,  &quot;amy  priest's  life,  anybody's  life,  in  order  to  be  fruitful  in  this  world,  to  say  nothing  of  the  next,  has  to  be  rooted  in  contemplation.  This  is  especially  true  of  our  life,  which  otherwise  becomes  one  of  sheer  activity-the  occupational  disease  of  the  diocesan  clergy.&quot;  &quot;Look,&quot;  Rooney  said.  &quot;I  don't  want  to  listen  to  that  stuff  to-  night.  I'm  here  to  relax.  You  guys  don't  know  what  it's  like  to  run  a  four-hundred-family  parish  all  by  yourself.&quot;  " b"&quot;'That  so?&quot;  replied  Joe.  &quot;Happens  to  be  what  I'm  doing  at  Holy  Faith.&quot;  &quot;Another  parish  heard  from,&quot;  said  Cooney.  &quot;Bob,&quot;  Mooney  said  to  Rooney,  &quot;we  all  have  our  crosses  to  bear.&quot;  &quot;I  still  don't  want  to  listen  to  that  stuff  tonight,&quot;  Rooney  said.  &quot;I  had  a  tough  day.&quot;  So  Joe  shut  up,  and  the  clerical  shoptalk,  which  he'd  only  cut  into  because  it  had  gone  on  too  long,  continued.  At  the  very  end,  when  Joe  was  leaving  the  restaurant  for  the  parking  lot,  he  was  approached  by  Rooney.  &quot;Sorry,  Joe,&quot;  Rooney  said.  &quot;But  I  had  a  tough  one  today.&quot;  &quot;Bob,  I  know  what  you  mean.&quot;  They  went  out  to  their  cars  together.  IN  the  weeks  that  followed,  Joe  and  Bob  sawmore  of  each  other  than  they  ever  had  before,  except  for  a  short  time  at  the  seminary  when  Bob  had  embraced  the  contemplative  life.  Joe  hoped  that  Bob  was  having  second  thoughts  about  the  active  life,  that  it  wasn't  only  their  plight  as  overworked  assistants  that  had  drawn  them  together  again,  but  in  any  case  he  had  a  friend  in  Bob.  They  knew  each  other's  phone  number  by  heart,  and  frequently  met  in  the  course  of  their  duties-Bob  pausing  at  Holy  Faith  on  his  way  home  from  downtown,  Joe  at  St.  John  Bosco's,  Bob's  parish,  after  visiting  the  hospital  nearby.  St.  John  Bosco's,  unlike  Holy  Faith,  was  a  new  plant,  with  paid  secretaries,  the  latest  in  equipment,  and  programs  and  organizations  galore,  many  over-  lapping.  The  parish  was  too  much  for  one  man-even  for  him,  Bob  said,  un-  less  he  was  there  every  minute,  which  he  couldn't  be.  The  pastor,  Monsignor  McConkie,  or  Mac,  as  Bob  called  him,  a  handsome  silver-haired  glad-hander,  who  had  long  ago  joined  everything  joinable  and  now  acknowledged  when  he  got  up  in  the  morning,  if  he  did,  that  he  was  in  too  deep  and  had  a  seri-  ous  drinking  problem,  expected  Bob  to  &quot;represent&quot;  him  and  the  parish  at  func-  tions  that  Mac  was  under  both  doctor's  and  confessor's  orders  tostay  away  from.  The  worst  ones-worst  because  there  was  no  end  to  them-were  ser-  vice-club  luncheons  at  downtown  ho-  tels.  Bob  attended  three  or  four  of  these  a  week,  and  it  was  usually  after  one  of  them,  in  the  middle  of  the  after-  noon,  in  high  spirits  or  low,  that  he  paused  at  Holy  Faith.  Joe,  usually  in  the  office  at  that  time  of  day-he'd  moved  theold  prie-dieu  down  there-would  make  a  drink  for  the  visitor,  as  was  the  practice  at  St. John  Bosco's,  and  they'd  discuss  what  was  uppermost  in  their  minds:  Boots,  if  she'd  gone  for  Bob  on  the  way  in;  Mrs.Cox,  if  the  TV  in  the  living  room  was  coming  through  well;  or  problems  of  universal  concern.  One  ofthese  was  church  finance,  a  subject  that  Bob  had  ideas  about  and  that  Joe,  though  he'd  scorned  it  and  clerical  bookkeeping  at  the  seminary,  now  felt  he  should  in-  terest  himself  in.  To  judge  by  some  correspondence  from  the  Chancery  in  the  files,  nobody  else  at  Holy  Faith  had  done  soin  recent  times.  W  hat  could  be  said  of  the  take  at  Holy  Faith-not  enough-could  also  be  said  of  organi-  zations:  only  two,  the  Holy  Name  So-  ciety  (men)  and  the  Christian  Mothers  (their  wives).  Reluctantly,  Joe  would  agree  that  something  should  be  done  about  [REDACTED]  or,  anyway,  about  Young  People  and  Young  Marrieds-Bob  had  ideas  about  all  these-but  then  Joe  would  renege  and  say  he  didn't  want  to  bite  off  more  than  he  could  chew:  a  veiled  reference  to  the  situation  at  St.  John  Bosco's.  &quot;Heaven  forbid!&quot;  Bob  said.  &quot;Still,  we're  in  the  same  boat,  Joe.&quot;  That  they  were  in  the  same  boat  (a  commonplace  in  their  discussions)  and  that  Bob  was  having  a  rougher  ride  Joe  would  accept,  but  he  couldn't  agree  that  there  was  so  little  to  choose  between  those  responsible  for  their  plights-between,  if  you  didn't  count  the  Archbishop,  a  mystic  and  a  drunk-as  to  make  no  difference.  One  afternoon,  Joe  told  Bob  that  it  was  the  Father  Van  Slaags,  oddly  enough,  and  not  the  Monsignor  McConkies,  who  kept  the  world  going,  who,  by  their  feats  of  prayer  and  abnegation,  stayed  the  hand  of  God.  This,  though  he  didn't  like  to  hear  it-non-contempla-  tives  never  did-Bob  knew  to  be  the  accepted  and  time-honored  belief  of  the  Church.  Joe  would  have  made  his  point  even  better  had  he  spoken  of  what  he'dseen  the  night  before,  when  he'd  gone  to  Father  Van  Slaag's  room  to  complain  about  Boots  and  Mrs.  Cox's  TV,  only  to  change  his  mind  and  ask  permission  to  order  Sunday-collection  envelopes  from  another  supplier,  and  then  to  re-  tire  to  think,  as  he'd  been  doing  ever  since,  on  what  he'd  seen  through  the  gaps  in  the  old,  almost  buttonless  cas-  sock  that  Father  Van  Slaag  wore  for  a  nightshirt-the  horny  gray  growths  on  the  knees,  the  dogtooth  wounds  on  the  ankles.  Dear  God!  What  Joe  had  wondered  about  ever  since  coming  to  Holy  Faith  was  clear  to  him  then:  why  Father  Van  Slaag  did  nothing  about  Mrs.  Cox's  dogand  TV.  He  was  us-  ing  them,  these  crosses,  as  a  means  to  sanctification  and  salvation-making  life  make  sense,  which  it  otherwise  wouldn't.  Out  of  prudence,  and  out  of  reverence  for  Father  Van  Slaag,  Joe     " b"didn't  tell  Bob  or  anyone  else  what  he'd  seen  that  night,  but  thereafter,  whenever  Bob  said  that  their  pastors  ought  to  be  put  away-Mac  in  a  sanitarium,  Van  in  a  cloister  or  cave-  Joe  was  silent,  brooding  on  those  ankles  and  knees  in  awe  and  humility.  He  had  decided  that  Father  Van  Slaag  was-  and  not  just  in  the  sense  that  the  word  applied  to  anybody  in  the  state  of  grace  but  in  the  sense  that  it  applied  to  the  big-time  mystics  and  martyrs-  a  saint.  BEFORE  that  night  in  Father  Van  Slaag's  room,  Joe  had  tried  to  do  the  job  he'd  been  ordained  to  do  for  God  and  humanity  while  also  trying,  for  the  sake  of  the  former,  to  preserve  himself  toa  degree  from  the  latter,  but  afterward  there  was  a  change  in  him.  Without  exactly  going  ape,  Joe  let  down  the  barrier  and  no  longer  distinguished  as  he  had  before,  sharp-  ly,  between  the  religious  and  the  social  demands  of  parishioners.  Mrs.  Cox  noticed  it.  &quot;What?&quot;  she  would  say.  &quot;Stepping  out  again?&quot;  In  this  change  in  him  there  was  a  certain  despair,  a  giving  up  on  himself  and  the  contemplative  life.  Why  not?  When  he  tried  to  look  down  as  God  must  and  saw  one  man  fending  off  Boots  with  a  cane,  the  other  allowing  himself  to  be  savaged  by  her,  amor-  tizing  the  world's  great  debt  of  sin  a  little,  deferring  foreclosure-really,  there  was  no  comparison.  In  that  kind  of  company,  Joe  just  didn't  figure.  Still,  you  never  knew  where  you  were  in  the  spiritual  life;  that  was  the  hell  of  it-only  God  knew.  Joe's  hope  had  to  be  that  hewas,  without  knowing  it,  a  sleeper.  He  thought  of  Cardinal  Merry  del  Val,  who,  as  Pius  X's  secretary  of  state,  was  another  overworked  assistant  to  a  saint,  and  perhaps  one  himself;  among  his  personal  effects,  after  his  death,  had  been  discovered  (a  shock  to  his  friends  in  high  places  and  low,  these  instruments  of  penance)  two  barbed-  wire  undershirts  and  a  scourge  with  dried  blood  on  it.  But  that  sort  of  thing,  though  still  nice  to  know-edifying-  was  discouraging  if  dwelt  on,  intimidat-  ing,  like  Father  Van  Slaag's  ankles  and  knees.  Joe  took  more  comfort  in  Scripture-in  &quot;Whosoever  shall  seek  to  save  his  life,  shall  lose  it,&quot;  in  &quot;Greater  love  than  this  no  man  hath,  thata  man  lay  down  his  life  for  his  friends,&quot;  though  this,  too,  was  pushing  it  in  his  case.  The  truth  was,  he  hadn't  sacri-  ficed  his  spiritual  life-it  had  been  done  for  him,  by  his  appointment  to  Holy  Faith.  All  he'd  done  since  then,  and  might  deserve  credit  for,  was  to  stop grudging  the  time  spent  in  doing  the  routine  work  of  the  parish,  the  time  he  might  have  spent  in  prayer.  The  old  prie-dieu,  which  he'd  been  carrying  back  up  to  his  bedroom  one  morning  when  the  office  phone  rang,  was  still  where  he'd  left  it  then,  on  the  stair  landing  where  he'd  first  found  it,  and  since  Mrs.  Cox  had  come  along  before  he  could  get  back  to  it,  it  was  serving  as  a  plant  stand  again.  He  didn't  mind.  Though  praying  a  lot  less  these  days,  he  prayed  harder  when  he  did  (as  rec-  ommended  by  Merry  del  Val),  and  though  working  harder  and  seeing  more  people,  he  had  more  appetite  for  them.  The  truth  was,  he'd  always  had  a  weakness  for  people,  a  weakness  sup-  pressed  at  the  seminary  but  now  in-  dulged  and  transformed  into  a  strength,  a  virtue.  He  was  good  with  people  when  he  wished  to  be,  as  he  did  now.  He  spar-  kled  in  maternity  wards  (&quot;Bring  us  another  round  of  orange  juice,  Sister,  and  this  time  put  something  in  it&quot;);  " b"sparkled  at  parish  meetings,  of  which  there  were  more  since  he'd  decided  to  come  to  grips  with  [REDACTED],  Young  Peo-  ple,  and  Young  Marrieds  (&quot;What  are  we  waiting  for?  I'm  here&quot;);  sparkled  at  home  (&quot;My  compliments  to  the  chef,  Mrs.  Cox&quot;).  Occasionally,  he  even  sat  with  Mrs.  Cox  in  the  evening  if  there  was  a  game  of  some  kind  on  TV;  at  first  he  had  to  get  her  to  switch  channels  and  to  instructher,  but  now  he  had  to  do  neither,  and  it  was  gratify,  ing  to  see  her  interest  in  sports  quicken  and  to  know  it  was  genuine  (with  so  many  women  it  wasn't)  -to  come  in  from  a  meeting  and  find  her  and  Boots  watching  the  Twins.  With  Boots,  however,  Joe  was  still  persona  non  grata,  and  still  went  about  the  house  with  his  cane,  which  he  left  on  the  back  porch  when  he  stepped  out  and  picked  up  when  he  returned.  But  the  best  times  for  Joe  were  those  times  when  he  could  be  of  real  use  to  people  as  a  priest-those  times  of  trial,  tragedy,  and  ordinary  death-  into  which  he  entered  deeper  than  he  had  before.  &quot;After  years  of  trying  to  walk  on  the  water,  you  know,&quot;  he  told  Bob,  who  was  increasingly  im-  patient  with  parishioners  (and  Mac),  'it's  good  to  come  ashore  and  feel  the  warm  sand  between  my  toes.&quot;  This  was  not  to  say  that  Joe  couldn't  get  enough  of  people.  He  could.  And  when  he  did,  after  a  tough  day,  or  when  he  just  craved  faster  company,  he  went  to  play  poker  with  Cooney  and  the  gang  at  St.  Isidore's,  a  hard-drinking  rectory,  and  the  next  morning  it  wasn't  easy  for  him  to  get  going.  (He  did  not  believe  in  Beeman's  solution:  &quot;Weak  drinks,  more  of  'em-that  way  you  get  more  liquids  into  your  system.&quot;)  All  in  all,  though,  he  felt  better  about  himself  both  as  a  priest  and  as  a  person,  as  others  ap-  peared  to  these  days-certainly  Mrs.  Cox,  and  even  Cooney,  who  was  be-  coming  his  best  friend  again.  &quot;Joe,&quot;  Cooney  said  one  night  at  St.  Isidore's,  &quot;know  who  youare?&quot;  \xe2\x80\x98(WhOPU  &quot;Lemme  put  it  another  way.  Know  who  Van  is?&quot;  (\xe2\x80\x98Whof&quot;)  &quot;Mary.  You're  Martha,  Joe.&quot;  Only  now  and  then,  late  at  night  before  he  got  to  sleep,  or  early  in  the  morning  before  he  got  going,  did  Joe  " b"look  back  and  regret  the  change  in  himself.  TOUGH  day.  During  breakfast,  Joe  had  simply  said,  &quot;Somebody  ought  to  poison  that  bitch,&quot;  meaning  Boots,  and  now  Mrs.  Cox  wouldn't  talk  to  him.  Later  that  morning,  while  trying  to  sparkle  in  a  maternity  ward,  he'd  simply  said,  &quot;So  that's  the  little  bastard,&quot;  and  had  been  asked  to  leave  by  its  mother.  That  afternoon,  he  had  a  visit  from  a  young  lady  in  real  estate  whom  he'd  just  about  enticed  into  flee-  ing  the  world  and  joining  the  Carmel-  ites,  and  learned  that  she'd  received  a  big  promotion  and  therefore  would  be  staying  in  the  world  after  all.  Early  that  evening,  two  converts  in  the  mak-  ing,  Tex  and  Candy,  who'd  been  tak-  ing  instructions  with  a  view  to  marry-  ing  Margie  and  Mike,  failed  to  show,  and  it  developed  after  a  couple  of  phone  calls  that  they'd  eloped  together.  While  Joe  was  working  this  out  for  Margie  and  Mike  in  the  office,  on  hold  inthe  living  room  he  hadan  old  parishion-  er  who  was  upset  over  a  nine-dollar  er-  ror  in  his  account-under  Joe's  new  system,  actually  Bob's,  receipts  were  mailed  out  to  contributors  at  the  end  of  the  fiscal  year-and  who,  though  Joe  tried  everything,  even  offering  to  reimburse  the  old  devil  on  the  spot,  wouldn't  go  away  until  he'dseen  the  pastor.  &quot;He's  in  the  church,&quot;  Joe  said,  and  fled.  Later,  Joe  went  over  to  St.  Isidore's  for  poker,  and  it  turned  out  to  be  a  tough  night,  too,  He  was  there  to  re-  lax,  but  the  others  wouldn't  let  him.  Bob,  who  had  just  come  from  driving  Mac  to  the  sanitarium  (and  felt  a  lit-  tle  sad  about  it,  though  it  was  all  for  the  best),  kept  after  Joe  totalkto  Van  about  checking  in  to  a  cloister.  Bee-  man,  not  for  the  first  time,  advised  Joe  to  just  look  Boots  in  the  eye,  which  was  what  he'd  always  done  at  Holy  Faith.  &quot;And  don't  let  her  see  you're  afraid  of  her,&quot;  he  said,  and  suggested  (though  he  admitted  he  had  only  heard  about  this,  hadn't  tried  it  himself),  &quot;Chuck  her  lightly  under  the  jaw.  Try  it.&quot;  When  Joe  mentioned  the  nine-dol-  lar  bookkeeping  error,  Beeman  advised  him  in  future  just  to  say,  &quot;We  all  make  mistakes.  That's  why  they  put  erasers  on  lead  pencils,&quot;  which  was  what  he  always  did  in  such  a  case.  &quot;Try  it,'  he  said.  When  Joe  men-tioned  the  young  lady  who'd  received  a  big  promotion  and  let  him  down,  Bob  said,  &quot;Hell,  you  can't  blame  her,&quot;  and  then  had  the  nerve  to  say,  alluding  to  his  two  weeks  as  a  contemplative,  &quot;In  my  case,  after  trying  to  walk  on  the  water,  it  was  good  to  reach  dry  land  and  feel  the  warm  sand  under  my  feet,&quot;  as  if  these  words  were  entirely  his  own.  Joe  felt  better  after  he  heard  Cooney's  comment,  &quot;Bob,  you  never  went  out  without  your  water  wings,&quot;  but  a  moment  later  he  applied  it  to  himself,  with  remorse.  And  Cooney,  perhaps  sensing  this,  tried  to  do  his  &quot;Know  who  you  are?&quot;  business  with  Joe  again,  but  Joe  foiled  him  by  an-  swering  right  away,  &quot;Martha.&quot;  Then  Cooney's  pastor,  one  of  the  few  really  good  poker  players  in  the  diocese  and  m.c.  of  its  weekly  TV  program,  said  to  Joe,  &quot;Found  y'self,  baby,&quot;  and  asked  him  if  he'd  ever  considered  how  much  he  owed  the  Arch  for  sending  him  to  Father  Van  Slaag  at  Holy  Faith.  Joe  said  he  had,  but  unfortunately  didn't  leave  it  at  that.  &quot;Just  one  thing  wrong  with  Van,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Not  doing  his  job.&quot;  Joe  had  never  said  this,  or  anything  like  it,  be-  fore,  and  immediately  regretted  it.  Only  the  truth,  yes,  and  they  all  knew  it,  but  from  him  a  betrayal.  From  that  point  on,  Joe,  who  hadn't  taken  a  pot,  won  steadily.  Later,  much  later,  after  a  lot  of  standing  around,  though  Joe  himself  was  sitting  down,  and  a  lot  of  talk  about  cars  and  driv-  ing,  Joe  left  St.  Isidore's  with  Bob,  he  thought,  and  the  next  thing  he  knew,  not  counting  a  bad  dream-&quot;Mrs.  Boots,  come  and  get  Cox!&quot;-he  was  in  bed  and  it  was  morning.  He  couldn't  remember  how  the  night  had  ended,  and  didn't  want  to,  but  had  the  pres-  ence  of  mind  not  to  phone  the  police  after  he  looked  out  the  window  and  saw  his  car  was  missing  from  its  usual  place  in  the  driveway.  He  took  a  hot  bath,  and  in  the  course  of  it,  soaping  himself,  he  discovered  and  examined  the  marks  on  his  right  ankle-super-  ficial  wounds,  five  in  number.  They  made  him  think  but  otherwise  didn't  hurt.  He  painted  them  with  antiseptic,  dressed,  and  went  downstairs,  armed  only  with  a  ruler,  and  got  going  again. "