 b"EARLY  this  evening  the  President  announced  his  resignation.  Though  his  rise  to  power  was  meteoric,  he  was  not  a  popular  lead-  er.  He  made  no  promises  before  tak-  ing  office  but  speculated  endlessly  about  the  kind  of  weather  we  would  have  during  his  term,  sometimes  even  mak-  ing  a  modest  prediction.  And  when,  as  it  happened  from  time  to  time,  his  prediction  was  not  borne  out,  he  would  quickly  conceal  his  disappoint-  ment.  His  critics  accused  him  of  spend-  ing  too  much  energy  on  such  exer-  cises,  and  were  especially  severe  about  his  wasting  public  funds  on  a  National  Museum  of  Weather,  in  whose  rooms  one  could  experience  the  climate  of  any  day  anywhere  in  the  history  of  man.  His  war  on  fluorocarbons,  known  as  the  &quot;gas  crusade,&quot;  is  still  talked  about  with  astonishment.  Among  those  at-  tending  the  President's  farewell  ad-  dress  were:  the  First  Minister  of  Po-  tential  Clearness  &amp;  husband,  the  War-  den  of  Inner  and  Outer  Darkness  &amp;  husband,  the  Deputy  Chief  of  Lesser  Degrees  &amp;  wife,  the  First  Examiner  of  Ambiguous  Customs  &amp;  two  secretar-  ies,  the  Chief  of  Transcendent  Deco-  rum  &amp;  friend,  the  Assistant  Magistrate  of  Exemplary  Conditions  &amp;  two  friends,  the  Under-Secretary  for  De-  vices  Appropriate  to  Conditions  Un-  specific  &amp;  mother,  the  Lord  Chancellor  of  Abnormal  Silences  &amp;  father,  the  Deputy  Examiner  of  Fallibility  and  Remorse  &amp;  daughters,  the  Chief  Poet  Laureate  and  Keeper  of  Glosses  for  Unwritten  Texts  &amp;  follower.  LADIES  and  gentlemen,  friends  and  colleagues,  thank  you  for  coming  this  evening.  I  know  how  difficult  for  you  the  past  few  days  havebeen  and  how  sad  you  must  be  tonight.  But  I  came  to  the  Presidency  from  the  bot-  tom  of  my  heart  and  leave  it  with  the  best  will  in  the  world,  And  I  believe  I  have  weathered  my  term  without  be-  traying  the  trust  of  the  people.  From  the  beginning  I  have  preached  melan-  choly  and  invention,  nostalgia  and  prophecy.  The  languors  of  art  have  been  my  haven.  More  than  anything  I  wished  to  be  the  first  truly  modern  President,  and  to  make  my  term  the  free  extension  of  impulse  and  the  pres-  ervation  of  chance.  (Applause)  Who  can  forget  my  proposals,  peti-  tions  uttered  on  behalf  of  those  who  la-  bored  in  the  greatcause  of  weather-  measuring  wind,  predicting  rain,  giving  themselves  to  whole  generations  of  days-whose  attention  was  ever  riveted  to  the  invisible  wheel  that  turns  the  stars  and  to  the  stars  themselves?  How  like  poetry,  said  my  enemies.  They  were  right.  For  it  was  my  wish  to  make  nothing  happen.  Thank  heaven  it  has  been  so,  for  my  words  would  easily  have  been  wasted  along  with  the  works  they  might  have  engendered.  I  have  al-  ways  spoken  for  what  does  not  change,  for  what  resists  action,  forthe  stillness  at  the  center  of  man.  (Applause)  Thus  we  havebeen  privileged  to  celebrate  fifty-one  national  holidays,  the  fifty-one  days  I  hesitated  before  taking  office-the  glorious  fifty-one  that  now  belong  to  the  annals  of  medi-  tation.  How  lovely  the  mind  is  when  overcast  or  clouded  with  indecision,  when  it  goes  nowhere,  when  itis  con-  scious,  radiantly  conscious,  of  its  own  secret  motions.  (Applause)  And  the  hours  spent  reading  Che-  khov  aloud  to  you,  my  beloved  Cabinet!  The  delirium  of  our  own  unimportance  that  followed!  How  we  sighed  and  moaned  for  the  frailty  of  our  lives'!  Not  to  be  remembered  in  two  hundred  years,  or  even  in  two!  And  the  silence  that  was  ours,  each  of  us  overtaken  with  a  feeling  of  moments  prolonged,  magically  chronicled  in  the  stillness  of  windows  beyond  which  the  minute  changes  of  the  world  went  on.  (  A  \xef\xac\x81plauw  )  Friends,  how  can  I  tell  you  what  weather  has  meant!  'The  blue  sky,  its  variations  and  repetitions,  is  what  I  look  back  on:  the  blues  of  my  first  day  in  office,  the  blues  of  my  fifth  day,  the  porcelain  blues,  the  monotonous  blues,  the  stately  blues,  the  ideal  blues  and  the  slightly  less  than  ideal  blues,  the  yellow  blues  on  certain  winter  days.  Always  the  great  cupola  of  light,  a  vague  yet  luminous  crown,  spread  with  tireless  regularity,  turning  the  prose  of  my  life  into  exultation  and  desire,  And  then  it  would  dim  into  twilight  and  the  green  edge  of  the  world  would  darken.  Fi-  nally  the  weather  of  night  would  ar-  rive,  under  which  I  drifted  as  if  my  bed  were  a  ship-the  monstrous  open-  ness  of  night,  in  which  birds  become  lost,  in  which  sounds  travel  with  a  melancholy  beyond  tears,  in  which  my  dreams  of  a  golden  age  seem,  fora  moment,  diminished  and  hopelessly  ex-  iled.  I  have  sailed  and  sailed  my  whole  life.  (Applause)  I  remember  each  morning,  when  I  was  young,  setting  out  to  cross  the  plains  of  boredom,  over  which  small  islands  of  shadow  drifted  according  to  the  caprice  of  clouds.  Little  did  I  know  that  those  days  had  historical  impor-  tance.  Airy  monuments,  blurred  re-  membrances  were  being  built,  suggest-  ed,  removed  almost  in  the  instant  of  their  occurrence.  Each  morning,  cross-  ing  those  plains,  armed  only  with  de-  sire  for  sympathy  and  adulation,  I  was  even  then  forming  the  role  I  would  play  as  President.  The  emptiness  of  those  days  was  relentless  and  unfath-  omable  as  the  breathing  of  parents.  When  would  the  world  awake  and  ac-  knowledge  its  light,  that  airy  gold  in  which  strange  domes  of  gray  paraded  soundlessly,  far  off?  (Applause)  I  have  never  ceased  looking  up  at  the  sky  and  I  never  shall.  The  deep  azures  and  ultramarines  of  disappoint-  ment  and  joy  come  only  from  it.  The  blessings  of  weather  shall  always  exceed  the  office  of  our  calling  and  turn  our  words,  without  warning,  into  the  petals  of  a  huge  and  inexhaustible  rose.  Thank  you  and  goodbye. "