 b"I  WAS  well  known.  I  was  so  well  known  everyone  knew  me.  I  was  the  best-known  person  in  the  world.  I  put  on  my  plaid  shirt  and  my  thick  boots  and  the  thin-wale  corduroy  pants  and  I  was  the  best-known  person  in  the  world.  And  then  I  went  slowly.  I  looked  in  the  mirror.  I  wore  the  thin-  wale  corduroy  pants  because  I  think  the  thick-wale  is  effeminate.  I  went  out  my  door.  I  went  down  the  stairs.  I  lived  on  the  second  floor-no  indoor  entrance;  I  had  to  walk  up  and  down  outside  stairs  to  get  in  and  out.  Out-  side  stairs.  My  outside  stairs.  My  weather-stained  porch.  Not  a  very  pret-  ty  porch.  No  room  for  a  nice  chair.  Paint  peeling  off,  just  like  loneliness  sloughing  off  the  skin.  Onto  the  side-  walk.  I  walked  onto  the  sidewalk,  watched  the  sidewalk,  focussed  on  the  sidewalk,  I  saw  my  thick  boots  only  as  a  blur.  So  cracked,  that  sidewalk.  The  little  shoots  of  grass,  the  roots  of  trees  working  the  cement  into  dust.  I  was  so  well  known  that  that  sidewalk  was  well  known.  I  was  quite  well  known  when  I  was  still  quite  young.  I  had  many  friends.  Bobbi  and  Sammi  and  Tadi  and  Ronee  and  Bilye.  I  had  so  many  friends.  I  liked  friends  who  were  girls  but  had  boys'  names,  but  ending  in  a  different  letter  than  a  boy's  name  would.  That  was  the  kind  of  friend  I  wanted,  and  that  was  the  kind  offriend  I  had.  That  was  my  preference.  My  preference  was  for  people  just  like  that.  I  wanted  to  be  specific.  I  wanted  to  be  so  specific  that  no  one  would  have  any  doubts.  That  was  the  only  reason  I  was  that  well  known.  Because  it  was  so  specific.  Be-  cause  there  wasn't  any  doubt.  People  with  a  name  like  Sammi  or  Ronee  or  Jami  or  Tonee  knew  that  kind  of  name  was  my  preference.  That  made  me  well  known.  Would  you  know  me  if  I  showed  you  my  papers?  Would  you  know  me  if  I  showed  you  my  Bulldog  Editions?  Would  you  know  me  if  I  showed  you  my  Special  Home  Editions:  Would  you  let  me  show  you  the  Blue  Final  and  the  Final  Blue?  Will  you  glance  at  my  papers?  Will  you  have  a  look?  Do  you  know  me  when  you  have  a  look?  Do  you  know  me  when  I  call  you  on  the  phone?  Do  you  know  me  when  I  walk  on  the  sidewalk,  when  I  watch  the  cracks?  Do  you  lie  there  and  think,  &quot;It's  him.  He's  on  the  sidewalk&quot;?  Do  you  remember  the  texture  of  my  nose?  The  slightly  grainy  texture,  as  though  it  had  been  rubbed  and  rubbed  and  rubbed?  Do  you  have  a  general  impression  of  my  face-just  that,  a  general  impression?  Nothing  more  than  that?  Just  a  vague  feeling  that  the  face  is  a  type  of  face,  a  faceof  a  type  that  a  certain  kind  of  person  would  have?  Is  it  abstract,  the  way  you  feel,  when  I  tried  so  hard  to  supply  detail?I  wanted  everything  so  clear,  so  specific.  I  went  to  so  much  trouble.  I  dressed  in  a  cer-  tain  way.  I  dressed  three  times.  I  put  on  my  clothes  and  then  I  took  them  off,  and  then  I  put  them  on  and  then  I  took  them  off,  and  then  I  put  them  on  in  a  final  way  that  was  very  specific.  Then  I  walked  slowly.  Keeping  my  eye  on  the  pavement.  I  made  the  pave-  ment  so  specific.  I  made  my  friends  so  specific.  Sometimes  it  happened  that  they  thought  they  were  general,  but  they  were  wrong.  I  made  them  speci-  fic,  down  to  the  details.  I  knew  all  the  details  and  went  over  them  three  times.  That  was  my  preference.  Do  you  remember  my  preference?  Do  you  remember  the  way  I  made  them  nervous?  'That  was  part  of  the  preference.  Do  you  remember  the  way  I  made  them  reluctant  to  wear  their  uniforms  in  public?  'That  was  part  of  my  preference.  So  specific,  my  prefer-  ence.  So  specific,  the  way  the  little  uni-  forms  looked  under  a  big  bulky  coat.  Would  you  know  me  if  I  wore  a  uni-  form?  Would  you  know  me  if  I  wore  a  bulky  coat?  Would  you  know  me  if  I  moved  a  step  closer?  Would  you  know  me  if  I  took  off  my  hat?  Would  you  know  me  if  I  showed  you  a  clip-  ping?  Would  you  know  me  if  I  took  a  clipping  and  circled  my  name  so  it  would  stand  out,  and  then  attached  a  small  piece  of  white  paper  (with  gum  or  mucilage  )  with  my  name  typed  out  just  like  my  name  typed  out  on  the  Linotypes  andon  the  wire  services  and  on  the  special  identification  cards  they  require  in  so  many  places,  typed  out  on  plastic?  Would  you  know  me  if  I  typed  my  name  out?  Would  you  know  me  if  I  asked  you  for  a  dime?  Would  you  know  me  if  I  asked  to  walk  you  home? "