 b"I  OFTEN  ask  myself  these  days  as  I  shell  out  four  dollars,  stumble  over  people's  feet  in  the  murk,and  gingerly  settle  down  on  the  slagof  their  popcorn  just  what  sort  of  will-o'-  the-wisp  I'm  still  pursuing.  Surely  any-  one  marinated  by  sixty-five  years'  ex-  posure  to  the  silver  screen,  mile  up-  on  mile  of  acetate  etched  with  the  hal-  lucinations  of  ribbon  clerks  and  de-  bauched  waitresses,  would  be  much  better  off  at  home  sipping  hot  cocoa  and  reading  Pascal's  &quot;Pens\xc3\xa9es&quot;  in  his  nightgown-they  now  have  night-  gowns  embroidered  with  Pascal's  thoughts-yet  there  I  sit,  slack-jawed,  a  grizzled  prospector  still  avid  for  whatever  nuggets  might  turn  up  in  the  sludge.  To  be  candid,  the  onlyones  I  hope  to  unearth  someday  were  encap-  sulated,  say  my  informants,  in  two  for-  eign  films  of  such  unrelieved  tedium  that  projectionists  fainted  away  in  their  booths.  The  first  was  an  Italian  pro-  duction,  laid  in  ancient  [REDACTED],  which  bumbled  along  inexorably  up  to  the  moment  its  hero  declined  an  invitation  to  dinner.  &quot;I  really  would  love  to  come,&quot;  he  assured  the  host,  &quot;but  we're  having  a  dialogue  at  Plato's  tonight.&quot;  The  second,  a  Mitteleuropean  strudel  based  on  the  life  of  Mozart,  contained  a  passage  wherein  the  young  genius  tremblingly  approached  his  patron,  a  Herr  Mossbach,  for  an  estimate  of  his  latest  work.  The  verdict,  alas,  was  devastating,  and  Mozart,  streaked  with  tears,  tottered  out  into  the  snow.  W  ait-  ing  on  the  corner,  his  confidant,  Bill  Eugenspiel,  refused  to  be  daunted  by  the  news.  &quot;Courage,  Wolfgang,&quot;  he  said,  clapping  him  cheerily  on  the  back.  &quot;Who  cares  what  that  old  mossback  thinks?  Let  us  go  and  compose  &quot;'The  Magic  Flute.&quot;  &quot;  While  treasures  as  dazzling  as  these  are  of  a  rarity  beyond  price,  it  should  be  noted  that  there  are  equally  precious  ones  that  were  never  recorded  on  film  but  that  sparkle  in  the  memory  of  graybeards  like  yours  truly,  who  was  once  connected  with  the  cinema.  Dur-  ing  the  spring  of  1935,  I  was  briefly  employed  at  the  Warner  Brothers-First  National  studio  in  Burbank,  spot-weld-  ing  the  dialogue  on  a  number  of  its  pictures.  Among  the  dozen  or  so  screen-  writers  on  the  assembly  line,  which  in-  cluded  Flotsman  and  Jetsman,  a  team  that  wrote  several  gangster  classics,  was  one  Winston  Finston,  a  scholarly,  with-  drawn  chap  with  a  hearing  aid,  whose  deafness,  mercifully,  shielded  him  from  our  boisterous  witticisms.  His  particular  achievement,  I  learned,  was  that  he  had  furnished  the  idea  for  &quot;Dr.  Ehr-  lich's  Magic  Bullet,&quot;  the  movie,  star-  ring  Edward  G.  Robinson,  about  the  epochal  discovery  of  arsphenamine,  the  anti-syphilitic  compound  marketed  as  Salvarsan.  Even  had  Finston  and  I  been  marooned  together  on  a  desert  island,  however,  the  pallid  spirochete  would  have  been  a  dubious  basis  for   friendship,  and  in  due  course  we  left  the  lot  without  exchanging  so  much  as  an  imprecation  about  its  godhead,  Darryl  Zanuck.  A  decade  passedbefore  I  heard  of  the  man  again,  and  then  in  a  context  so  different  that  it  defied  credulity.  Shortly  after  Pearl  [REDACTED],  Finston,  despite  other  seeming  disabilities,  like  flat  feet  and  membership  in  the  Con-  sumers  Union,  had  applied  for  entry  into  the  United  [REDACTED]  Marine  Corps  and  been  accepted.  His  experience  gained  as  a  screenwriter  enabled  him  to  survive  the  rigorous  training  of  the  Corps.  He  scrambled  through  mire,  demonstrated  he  could  eviscerate  any  opponent,  and  in  general  displayed  suf-  ficient  barbarity  under  pressure  to  qual-  ify  him  for  jungle  warfare.  Shortly  thereafter,  his  outfit  received  a  forty-  eight-hour  leave,  along  with  the  strict  admonition  to  hold  itself  ready  to  be  shipped  out.  Four  days  later,  a  couple  of  burly  M.P.s  ransacking  the  Los  Angeles  area  for  strays  came  abreast  of  a  renowned  delicatessen  called  Wolo-  shin's,  on  La  Brea  just  off  Wilshire.  Through  the  window  they  caught  sight  of  a  figure  in  Marine  uniform  staging  a  culinary  orgy.  A  cornucopia  of  smoked  salmon,  sturgeon,  pastrami,  corned  beef,  chopped  liver,  sauerkraut,  dill  pickles,  sour  tomatoes,  rye  bread,  bagels,  and  seeded  rolls  ranged  before  him,  Finston  sat,  chewing  blissfully,  his  eyes  closed  and  hearing  aid  switched  off  -a  man  literally  at  ease  in  Zion.  His  bubble,  woefully,  burst  in  a  twinkling  when  the  M.P  .s  yanked  him  to  his  feet  and  branded  him  AWOL.  &quot;I'm  not!  I'm  not!&quot;  he  pleaded.  &quot;They  sent  me  here!&quot;  His  captors  gaped  at  him.  &quot;They  what?&quot;  &quot;They  told  me  to  go  to  Woloshin's.&quot;  &quot;&quot;Not  Woloshin's,  you  fool,&quot;  they  cried  in  out-  rage.  &quot;The  Aleutians!&quot;  AME  postwar  Hol-  lywood,  when  Mc-  Carthy's  tumbrels  rolled  and  the  mournful  cry  of  the  fink-&quot;Bring  out  your  dead  heresies&quot;-re-  sounded  through  the  streets.  From  Azusa  to  the  shores  of  [REDACTED],  from  the  throne  of  Har-  ry  Cohn,  at  Columbia,  to  the  cardboard  spires  of  M-G-M,  where  Louis  B.  Mayer  and  Dore  Schary  were  suzerain,  " b"dissent  was  hushed,  and  no  man  gave  ear  to  his  neighbor  lest  Communist  hen-  bane  be  poured  in  while  he  nodded.  Under  the  iron  heel,  the  crucible  well-  nigh  cracked,  but  along  with  the  dross  it  produced  one  gem  of  purest  ray  se-  rene,  Its  mineral  elements,  so  to  speak,  were  two-Keenan  Wynn,  the  actor,  and  an  executive  at  M-G-M  named  Serge  Kolodny.  The  latter,  a  porcine  type  akin  to  those  that  root  out  truffles  in  P\xc3\xa9rigord,  had  been  chosen  by  man-  agement  to  sniff  out  lurking  subver-  sives,  and  though  Wynn  bore  no  taint,  he  had  been  observed  at  meetings  of  the  [REDACTED]  Anti-Nazi  League,  a  supposed  branch  of  the  Comintern.  In-  viting  the  young  man  to  his  office,  Ko-  lodny  proceeded  to  massage  his  ego  with  chicken  fat.  Like  his  immortal  sire,  greatest  of  all  comedians,  Keenan  was  B.O.  dynamite,  the  most  blazing  talent  since  [REDACTED]  William,  and  Clark  Gable's  own  choice  to  inherit  his  mantle.  Hence  it  was  imperative  to  inoculate  him  against  insidious  foreign  doctrines.  Could  Keenan  by  any  chance,  he  asked  silkily,  recall  the  names  of  any  individuals  he  had  encountered  at  the  [REDACTED]  Anti-Nazi  League?  &quot;Jiminy  crickets,&quot;  Wynn  protested.  &quot;I  meet  hundreds  of  people  every  day,  Mr.  Kolodny.  I  never  listen  to  their  names,  I  just  autograph-&quot;  &quot;Of  course,  my  boy,&quot;  his  inquisitor  soothed  him.  &quot;Nobody  could  answer  a  question  like  that  off  the  top  of  their  head.  Now,  why  don't  you  go  home,  have  a  couple  of  highballs  and  a  good  feed,  and  tomorrow,  when  your  brain  clears,  we'll  have  another  chat-  O.K.?  .  ..  By  the  way,&quot;  he  called  out  as  Wynn  was  closing  the  door,  &quot;the  op-  tion  on  your  contract's  just  coming  up  for  renewal,  isn't  it?&quot;  A  sudden,  inexplicable  fantasy  that  he  was  being  drawn  up  into  Kolod-  nys  snout  as  into  a  vacuum  cleaner  seized  the  actor,  and  he  left  hurried-  ly.  The  interrogation  resumed  next  day,  with  Kolodny  using  every  means  short  of  threat  to  elicit  the  identity  of  the  League's  conspirators.  In  vain,  he  wheedled,  flattered,  cooed.  Wynn's  forehead  beaded  over  with  perspira-  tion  as  he  lashed  his  memory  to  no  purpose.  All  he  could  recollect,  he  as-  serted,  was  a  sea  of  faces,  speeches,  applause.  The  other  man  resorted  to  guile.  &quot;The  human  mind  is  like  a  maze,&quot;  he  pronounced,  formulating  what  might  be  termed  Kolodny's  Law.  &quot;The  more  you  hock  away  on  it,  the  less  you  can  drain  out.  Now,&quot;  he  added,  with  ap-  parent  irrelevance,  &quot;I  understand  you're  very  fond  of  motorcycling.  Is  that  correct?&quot;  Wynn  signified  it  was.  &quot;'Then  forget  everything  we  said.  Take  a  carefree  little  spin  on  your  wheel-go  to  [REDACTED],  Tijuana,  lay  in  the  sun  and  commute  with  na-  ture.  Remember  what  Shakespeare  said:  'Where  the  bee  sucks,  there  suck  I'  By  Monday,  you'll  be  as  fresh  as  a  baby,  ready  to  spill  out  names,  dates,  all  that  poison  they  fed  you.&quot;  Three  days  thence,  Wynn  sat  once  more  in  Kolodny's  office,  oil-stained  and  travel-worn,  fiddling  with  the  hel-  met  and  goggles  in  his  lap.  &quot;The  next  night,  we  went  on  to  Bakersfield,&quot;  he  recounted.  &quot;After  dinner,  I  shot  some  pool  there-&quot;  'Yes,  yes,  must  have  been  a  great  trip,&quot;  Kolodny  said  impatiently.  &quot;You  look  fabulous,  Keenan.  But,  getting  back  to  our  little  problem-did  you  at  least  think  of  one  person  you  recog-  nized  at  those  League  meetings?&quot;  As  Wynn  hesitated  and  nodded  slowly,  Kolodny  half  rose  from  his  chair.  &quot;Who,  who?&quot;  he  fluted  like  a  barn  owl.  &quot;Dore  Schary,&quot;  said  the  actor.  Kolodny's  face  went  livid,  &quot;What  the  hell,  kid,  you're  only  human,&quot;  he  sputtered.  &quot;If  you  can't  remember,  you  ...  can't  ...  remember!&quot;  AMONG  the  regrets  most  of  us  har-  bor  in  common,  I  daresay,  is  the  wish  that  we  could  have  been  a  fly  on  the  wall  at  some  colloquy  ofthe  great.  I  once  grew  dizzy  when  Sax  Rohmer,  the  creator  of  Dr.  Fu  Manchu,  in  the  course  of  narrating  some  trifling  inci-  dent  observed,  &quot;At  the  time,  I  was  strolling  arm  in  arm  with  E.  Phillips  Oppenheim  at  a  hotel  in  Evian-les-  Bains.&quot;  Similarly,  what  a  privilege  it  would  havebeen  to  eavesdrop  on  Dash-  iell  Hammett  and  Raymond  Chandler  at  the  dinner  Bleck  Mask  gave  its  con-  tributors  in  the  twenties,  even  though  each  swore  he  was  unconscious  of  the  other's  presence.  No  less  historic  was  an  occasion  in  1933  when  two  celebrated  poets  converged  in  [REDACTED],  giving  rise  to  a  line  that  lit  up  the  sky  like  Vesuvius.  Flies  on  the  wall  there  were  none,  but  one  of  the  duo,  E.  E.  Cum-  mings,  generously  confided  the  details  many  years  later.  &quot;God  knows  what  I  was  doing  on  the  Coast,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Some  impresario  with  a  pointy  head  had  read  my  play  'him'  and  thought  it  would  make  a  good  musical  for  Jeanette  MacDonald  and  Bertrand  Russell,  so  Marian  and  I  " b"went  out  to  see  if  there  was  any  catch.  There  was-he  wanted  me  to  play  Russell,  in  a  sailor  suit.  Well,  when  that  fell  through,  we  figured  what  the  dickens,  you're  only  dead  once,  let's  be  real  Angelenos.  So  we  visited  the  homes  of  the  stars,  watched  the  grun-  ion  run  at  Santa  Monica,  drank  malted  milks  too  thick  for  a  straw-it  was  stupendous.  'Those  people  really  know  how  to  get  the  marrow  out  of  life.&quot;  He  paused,  obviously  derailed  by  a  random  memory.  &quot;Say,  who  was  the  fat  poet  who  used  to  hang  around  Lee  Chumley's  place  down  here  in  the  old  days?&quot;  &quot;Fat  poet?&quot;  I  pondered.  &quot;Would  it  be  Eli  Siegel,  who  wrote  'Hot  After-  noons  Have  Been  in  [REDACTED]''  He  was  thin,  but  his  poetry  was  quite  fat.&quot;  No,  no,  this  one  wrote  light  verse.  Used  to  contribute  to  F.P.A.'s  'Con-  ning  Tower'  in  the  World.  ...  Well,  doesn't  matter.  Anyway,  just  before  we  left  [REDACTED],  some  face  card  in  the  movie  colony  invited  us  to  a  party,  a  very  stylish  affair,  in  a  gorge  called  Pussy  Willow  Canyon-or  am  I  mak-  ing  that  up?&quot;  I  assured  him  that  naught  was  im-  possible  in  the  Land  of  Nod.  &quot;Well,  we  had  a  devil  of  a  time  finding  the  place-drove  up  and  down  endless  ravines,  blundered  into  the  wrong  haciendas,  chateaus,  palazzos-  and  finally  got  there  an  hour  late.  The  house  was  lit  up  like  Versailles.  Rivers  of  champagne,  two  hundred  magnifi-  coes  milling  around  the  lawns-it  was  a  floorwalker's  idea  of  heaven.&quot;  He  stopped  again.  &quot;Look,  this  fat  poet  whose  name  escapes  me-you  must  remember  him.  He  was  pretty  well  known;  in  fact,  he  wrote  some  very  sprightly  stuff  for  the  old  Life  and  Vanity  Fair.&quot;  &quot;I  can't  think  who  you  mean.  Wait  a  second-could  it  have  been  Louis  Untermeyer  or  Arthur  Guiterman?&quot;  He  brightened.  &quot;Yes,  the  same  gal\xc3\xa9re,  the  W.  S.  Gilbert  school,  but  it  wasn't  either  of  them.  Oh,  well,  it'll  come  to  me.  So  there  we  were  at  this  shindig,  Maid  Marian  and  I,  strut-  ting  around  with  the  other  peacocks.  Eftsoon,  some  rake  like  Lew  Cody  or  Lowell  Sherman  besought  her  to  trip  the  light  fantastic,  and  away  they  whirled  to  the  strains  of  'There's  Danger  in  Your  Eyes,  Ch\xc3\xa9rie'  Just  as  I  was  heading  forthe  bar,  someone  grabbed  my  shoulder,  spun  me  around,  and  wrapped  me  in  an  embrace,  drenching  my  shirtfront  with  his  tears.  It  was  this  poet  from  Chumley's.  He'd  been  out  there  writing  movies  for  fifteen  years-  And  now  I  remember  his  name.  'Look  on  me,  cher  maitre,  and  have  pity,  he  was  sobbing.  'You  knew  me  when  I  was  Sam  Hoffenstein,  a  bard.  Cummings,  I'm  a  whore!'  &quot;  But,  of  course,  that  was  just  a  meta-  phor.  I  worked  in  the  place.  They  never  made  any  of  us  wear  kimonos.  "