 b"THEY  steal  upon  the  sleeping  mind  while  winter  steals  upon  the  landscape,  sealing  the  in-  viting  cups  beneath  sheets  of  ice,  cloaking  the  contours  of  the  fairway  in  snow.  I  am  standing  on  a  well-grassed  tee  with  my  customary  summer  foursome,  whose  visages  yet  have  something  shift-  ing  and  elusive  about  them.  I  am  get-  ting  set  to  drive;  the  fairway  before  me  is  a  slight  dogleg  right,  very  tightly  lined  with  trees,  mostly  conifers.  As  I  waggle  and  lift  my  head  to  survey  once  more  the  intended  line  of  flight,  fur-  ther  complications  have  been  imposed:  the  air  above  the  fairway  has  been  in-  terwoven  with  the  vines  and  wooden  crosspieces  of  an  arbor,  presumably  grape,  and  the  land  seems  to  drop  away  no  longer  with  a  natural  slope  but  in  nicely  hedged  terraces.  Never-  theless,  I  accept  the  multiplying  diffi-  culties  calmly,  and  try  to  allow  for  them  in  my  swing,  which  is  intently  contemplated  but  never  achieved,  for  I  awake  with  the  club  at  its  apogee,  wait-  ing  for  my  left  side  to  pull  it  through  and  to  send  the  ball  to-  ward  that  bluish  speck  of  openness  beyond  the  vines,  between  the  all  but  merged  forests.  It  is  a  feature  of  dream  golf  that  the  shot  never  decreases  in  difficulty  but  instead  from  instant  to  instant  melts,  as  it  were,  in-  to  deeper  hardship.  A  ball,  for  instance,  lying  at  what  the  dreaming  golfer  gauges  to  be  a  7-iron  distance  from  the  green,  has  become,  while  he  glanced  away,  cylindrical  in  shape-a  roll  of  coins  in  a  paper  wrapper,  or  a  plastic  bottle  of  pills.  Never-  theless,  he  swings,  and  as  he  swings  he  realizes  that  the  club  in  his  hands  bears  a  rubber  tip,  a  little  red-rubber  tabthe  color  of  a  crutch  tip,  but  limp.  The  rub-  ber  flips  negligibly  across  the  cylindrical  &quot;ball,&quot;  which  mean-  while  appears  to  be  sinking  into  a  small  trough  having  to  do,  no  doubt,  with  the  sprinkler  system.  Yet,  most  oddly,  the  dreamer  surren-  ders  not  a  particle  of  hope  of  making  the  shot.  In  this  instance,  indeed,  I  seem  to  recall,  on  my  second  or  third  swing,  making  crisp  contact,  and  then  striding  in  the  direction  of  the  presumed  flight  with  a  springy  sensation  of  con-  siderable  expectancy.  After  all,  are  these  nightmares  any  worse  than  the  &quot;real&quot;  drive  that  skips  off  the  toe  of  the  club,  strikes  the  prism-shaped  tee  marker,  and  is  swal-  lowed  by  weeds  some  twenty  yards  behind  the  horrified  driver?  Or  the  magical  impotence  of  an  utter  whiff?  Or  the  bizarre  physical  comedy  of  a  soaring  slice  that  strikes  the  one  tele-  phone  wire  strung  across  three  hundred  acres?  The  golfer  is  so  habituated  to  humiliation  that  his  dreaming  mind  never  offers  any  protest  of  implausibil-  ity.  Whereas  dream  life,  we  are  told,  is  a  therapeutic  caricature,  seamy  side  out,  of  real  life,  dream  golf  is  simply  golf  played  on  another  course.  We  chip  from  glass  tables  onto  moving  stair-  ways;  we  swing  in  a  straitjacket,  through  masses  of  cobweb,  and  awaken  not  with  any  sense  of  unjust  hazard  but  only  with  a  regret  that  the  round  can  never  be  completed,  and  that  one  of  our  phantasmal  companions  has  kept  the  scorecard.  Even  the  fair  companion  sleeping  beside  us  has  had  a  golf  dream,  with  a  feminist  slant.  An  ardent  beginner,  she  says,  &quot;I  was  playing  with  these  men,  I  don't  know  who  they  were,  and  they  kept  using  woods  when  we  were  on  the  green,  so  of  course  the  balls  would  fly  miles  away,  and  then  they  had  to  hit  all  the  way  back.  I  thought  to  my-  self,  They  aren't  using  the  rightclub,  and  I  took  my  putter  out  and,  of  course,  I  kept  beating  them!&quot;  &quot;Didn't  they  see  what  you  were  doing,  and  adjust  their  strokes  accord-  ingly?&quot;  &quot;No,  they  didn't  seem  to  get  it,  and  I  wasn't  going  to  tell  them.  I  kept  win-  ning,  and  it  was  wonderful,&quot;  she  insists.  We  gaze  at  one  another  across  the  white  pillows,  in  the  morning  light  filtered  through  icicles,  and  realize  we  were  only  dreaming.  Our  common  green  hunger  begins  to  gnaw  afresh,  insatiable. "