 b"SEVERAL  commuter  trains  left  the  District  of  Columbia  for  Mary-  land  in  the  late  afternoon,  filled  forthe  most  part  with  cheerful,  well-  organized  government  employees.  These  were  the  people  who  could  leave  their  desks  on  time  and  glide  into  the  tended  countryside  to  their  home  sta-  tions-Silver  Spring,  Gaithersburg,  Point  of  Rocks.  One  of  the  trains  left  Union  Station  at  five-fifty-five,  and  in  its  dishevelled  coaches  were  the  late  workers-the  tired  secretaries  and  clerks-and  the  stragglers  who  had  stopped  off  at  bars  and  made  them-  selves  late.  It  was  always  crowded.  A  young  man  and  a  small  girl  stood  in  the  aisle  of  the  five-fifty-five,  with  heavy,  battered-looking  suitcases  at  their  feet.  After  the  Aladdin-like  Mor-  mon  temple  was  passed  and  the  close-  in  passengers  began  to  get  off,  the  little  girl  sat  by  a  window  and  the  young  man  hoisted  their  luggage  up  onto  the  overhead  racks.  Already  the  late-spring  sun  was  well  behind  the  Blue  Ridge.  Using  the  calm  and  quiet  voice  he  believed  reassured  his  child,  Dana  In-  gles  pointed  out  to  her  cows,  solitary  bank  barns,  and  the  gentle  hills  where  early  corn  was  just  beginning  to  sprout.  Underneath  his  manner,  he  felt  fore-  boding  and  almost  panic.  He  was  changing  jobs  for  the  second  time  in  a  year.  The  help-wanted  ad  in  the  Wash-  ington  Post  had  offered  a  tenant  house  and  wages  for  work  on  a  beef  farm.  This  would  be  the  wildest  thing  yet,  leaving  the  law  firm  to  become  a  com-  mon  laborer.  But  then  he  must  consider.  For  a  long  time  now,  he  had  realized  that  the  dangers  and  pace  of  city  life  were  too  much  forthe  child.  And,  leav-  ing  the  child  aside,  they  were  entirely  too  much  for  him.  It  was  tempting  to  think  of  a  simple  life  in  the  country.  What  was  there  to  looking  after  a  herd  of  brood  cows,  their  food  and  procrea-  tion?  A  man  of  thirty-five  who  had  qualified  for  as  many  jobs  as  he  had  ought  to  have  no  trouble.  Yes,  his  de-  cision  must  be  right.  In  the  country  they  would  be  without  stimulation  ex-  cept  for  nature  and  books.  It  was  no  accident  that  the  greater  poets  wrote  pastorals.  Why,  somewhere  in  his  fa-  ther's  notebooks  he  had  found  a  line  from  Fu  Hsuan,  written  around  the  second  century  A.D.:  &quot;Contentment  with  poverty  is  Fortune's  best  gift.&quot;  He  smiled  at  the  [REDACTED]  afternoon.  His  briefcase  held  fresh  references,  typed  and  forged  by  himself.  &quot;To  Whom  It  May  Concern.&quot;  A  farmer  would  be    the  last  person  to  write  in,  wait  for  confirmation,  let  the  cows  go  hungry.  There  was  nothing  to  fear.  One  must  have  the  courage  of  one's  convictions  and  plunge  into  the  future.  Beforehe  suspected  the  train  could  possibly  be  there,  a  voice  was  calling  out,  &quot;Point  of  Rocks.&quot;  Dana  grabbed  down  the  bags,  heavy  with  books,  and  scooped  the  child  under  an  arm.  They  had  barely  descended  the  metal  lad-  der  and  jumped  to  the  ground  (no  step  was  set  off  for  passengers)  when  he  heard  the  engine  beginning  to  pull  again.  Those  few  passengers  who  had  got  off  ahead  of  them  were  closing  the  doors  of  their  cars.  Ruby  brake  signals  shone  briefly,  and,  once  the  cars  disap-  peared,  the  station  was  deserted.  The  air  was  cool  and  carried  a  light  climatic  fragrance.  An  inauspicious  place  to  again  be  poor  and  friendless.  No,  no.  The  world  was  all  alike.  Surely  the  farmer,  a  Mr.  Morecock,  would  be  coming  along  to  meet  them.  He  had  said  over  the  phone  he  would  be  in  a  green  Chevrolet  pickup  with  white  cat-  tle  racks.  Leaving  the  suitcases  ina  heap,  Dana  held  the  little  girl  to  reassure  them  both,  and  began  to  walk  about  the  station,  looking  this  way  and  that.  Any  decent  new  employer  would  seek  out  strangers  coming  to  work  for  him,  not  leave  them  to  flounder  around  in  a  strange  railway  yard.  Then  he  sighted  a  truck  parked  some  distance  away,  its  lights  and  motor  off,  apparently  holding  its  ground.  Timid  and  half  angry,  he  went  back  forthe  suitcases,  let  the  child  walk,  and  they  made  their  way  as  best  they  could  over  a  span  of  stones  and  gravel.  The  truck  was  occupied  by  only  one  person,  assuredly  Mr.  Morecock,  He  seemed  in  no  hurry  to  identify  him-  self,  but  as  they  came  abreast  he  reached  over  and  opened  the  passenger  door.  The  inside  of  the  cab  was  littered  with  Quaker  cans,  used  filters,  rags,  and  jumper  cables.  An  attempt  at  in-  troductions  was  cut  short  by  the  farm-  er's  haste.  &quot;Bad  time  of  evening  for  me,&quot;  Mr.  Morecock  said  morosely,  reaching  down  for  one  of  the  rags  and  wiping  the  sweat  off  his  forehead.  &quot;The  wife  is  keeping  supper.&quot;  He  lurched  the  truck  forward  and  changed  into  low  gear  to  go  up  onto  the  bridge  that  crossed  the  Potomac  River.  The  bridge  looked  long  and  danger-  ous.  State  police  were  setting  out  flares  around  what  seemed  to  be  a  hole  near  the  center  section.  &quot;Trucks,&quot;  the  farm-  " b"er  explained  in  his  flat  Middle  Atlantic  accent.  &quot;Just  came  that  way,  to  o.  A  wonder  I  didn't  hit  it.&quot;  There  was  time  now  in  the  dim  light  from  the  d  ashboard  to  get  a  look  at  Mr.  Morecock.  His  face  was  square  and  symmetrical,  with  small,  latchlike  eyes.  There  was  no  sign  of  mobility  except  for  false  teeth,  which  required  resettling  between  ce  rtain  sy  llables.  &quot;I  expect  you  had  a  time,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;  find-  i  ng  a  place  with  her.&quot;  This  uncou  th  stranger  was  referring  to  the  child.  How  did  one  meet  such  rudeness?  Speaking  of  her  as  a  bur-  den,  someone  to  be  put  up  with.  They  had  cleared  the  bridge  into  n  orthern  Vi  rginia,  whe  re  mountains  wiped  out  the  remai  ning  light  from  the  west.  Dana  tried  in  his  mi  nd  a  n  umber  of  appropriat  e  statements:  'To  the  con-  trary,  sir,  we  prefer  the  country,  We  had  no  trouble  at  all.  &quot;We  prefer  the  country,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Tired  of  city  life.&quot;  The  farmer  let  this  fall  i  nto  a  hedgy  si-  lence.  &quot;Well,&quot;  he  sa  id  at  last,  as  if  in  grudging  approval  ,  &quot;I  can't  blame  you  for  that,  We'll  see  how  you  handle  ma  chinery  and  such.  Baler's  jus  t  like  an  egg  shell.  Time  you  get  ten  thousand  bales  in  the  barn,  you  can  tell  me  about  the  country.&quot;  To  hear  his  own  speech  se  emed  to  relax  Mr.  Morecock.  He  began  a  one-  sided  conversation  tha  t  a  ppeared  to  have  as  its  subject  the  District  of  Co-  lumbia.  He  wouldn't  go  there,  he  said,  u  nder  any  conceivable  circ  ums  tanc  es.  &quot;Not  if  they  gave  it  to  me.  Put  me  in  the  White  House.  Wouldn't  wan  t  it.&quot;  These  rema  rks  must  have  brought  to  the  farmer's  m  ind  other  reasons  for  shu  nning  the  nation's  capital,  for  as  he  drove  along  he  continued  talking  un-  der  his  breath,  perhaps  giving  himself  the  convenience  of  not  having  to  part  his  teeth.  They  had  cleared  the  cliffs  and  were  out  now  into  the  dim,  rock-strewn  fields  of  northern  [REDACTED].  After  a  mile  or  two,  the  truck  turned  right  into  a  narrow  lane,  deeply  rutted.  The  flat  meadows  on  either  side  were  green,  topped  by  blooms  of  yellow  wild  flowers,  which  created  the  impression  the  sun  had  come  back.  The  farmhouse  stood  two-story  and  neat,  well  kept,  with  slatted  awnings.  The  truck  did  not  slow  down  but  went  past  and  on  toward  a  block  of  forest  where  the  lane  stopped  and  turned  to  grass,  and  the  dim  outlines  of  a  log  house  emerged.  &quot;It  isn't  anything  fancy,&quot;  Mr.  Morecock  said,  as  if  he  had  been  saving  this  news  until  the  end  of  the  drive.  &quot;Keeps  the  rain  out.  Got  a  good  chim-  ney  to  it.&quot;  They  drew  up  at  a  square  building  set  on  the  margin  of  woods.  &quot;Used  to  keep  slaves  here  in  old  times,&quot;  the  farmer  was  saying  congenially,  &quot;'The  way  I  hear  it,  they  didn't  work  out.  Ate  their  heads  off  and  took  sick  in  the  snow.&quot;  He  stopped  the  truck  and  opened  his  door,  moving  slowly,  as  if  his  back  hurt.  He  eyed  the  luggage  critically  as  it  was  lifted  from  the  pick-  up.  &quot;Full  [REDACTED];  he  said  approvingly.  &quot;No  room  to  take  nothing  with  you  when  you  quit  me.&quot;  Perhaps  these  insulting  remarks  were  acceptable  rural  humor.  The  log  house  stood  defensively  against  the  atmos-  phere  of  evening.  It  was  hand-hewn,  hunkered  up,  with  only  its  chimney  straight  against  the  evening  sky.  The  low  front  door,  not  more  than  five  feet  high,  was  wide  open.  Alternately  jumping  and  listing-some  trouble  with  his  spine,  no  doubt-Mr.  More-  cock  went  in  and  lighted  a  kerosene  lamp,  which  he  adjusted  until  it  cast  an  even  glow  across  the  one  large  room.  From  the  rafters  hung  bunches  of  okra  and  beans-dried,  tied  with  pieces  of  baling  twine.  The  top  of  some  rafters  had  rows  of  what  might  be  apples  and  p  otatoes  that  looked  shr  ivelled  and  half  decomposed;  the  y  gave  off  a  strong  and  yet  not  un-  plea  sant  odor.  &quot;Fellow  was  in  here  never  u  sed  up  nothing,&quot;  Mr.  Morecock  s  aid.  &quot;Left  it  ruin.  But  then  I  gu  ess  you  folks  would  rather  the  Tastee  Freez.&quot;  At  last  the  mom  ent  stood  whole  be-  tween  them  as  they  fac  ed  each  other  do  wn.  One  m  ust  give  respect  always  to  age,  to  di  fferences  in  background.  It  was  true  t  here  was  no  running  water.  No  furnitur  e  except  for  a  sagging  bed,  freshly  made,  and  an  old  enamel-  topped  table.  Two  or  three  cast-off  chairs.  The  farmer  was  embarrassed  to  offer  them  so  little.  That  was  it.  All  right.  The  way  t  o  get  along  with  ig-  norant  country  people  wa  s  to  overcome  them  with  thanks.  The  child's  delicate  eyes  were  ta  kin  g  in  the  scene;  she  was  plainly  fascinated.  &quot;We  certainly  tha  nk  you,  sir.  We'll  be  comfort  a  ble,  I'm  sure.  Now  just  show  me  the  we  ll  and  I  will  get  us  some  drink  ing  water.&quot;  &quot;If  it's  water  yo  u'r  e  wanting,  there's  aplenty  of  that  to  be  had,&quot;  Mr.  More-  cock  said,  pleasanter  already.  He  start-  ed  on  an  explanation  of  the  economics  of  farming.  &quot;By  the  time  you  take  your  seed,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;and  the  same  money  for  poison  and  that,  and  ad  d  your  fer-  tilizer,  why  th  ere  isn't  a  nything  in  it.&quot;  He  looked  worn  and  apologetic.  &quot;I've  tr  ied  so  many  rascals.  Some  steal,  some  run  at  ni  ght  and  gamble.  You  said  you  didn't  drink.&quot;  Opening  one  of  the  bags,  Dana  sa  w  he  had  luck-it  was  the  one  with  the  plast  ic  pitcher.  &quot;Let's  get  some  water,  sir.&quot;  Mr.  Morecock  retreated  slowly,  and  they  followed  him  into  the  dusk  until  he  came  to  a  pipe  sticking  out  of  the  ground,  where  he  bent  and  worked  a  hand  pump.  He  disappeared  abruptly  toward  the  truck  and  they  were  left  " b"alone,  but  not  before  the  sound  of  a  splash  had  taken  his  place  in  the  silence.  ACK  in  the  house  with  the  water,  which  tasted  fresh  and  spring-  like,  Dana  held  and  kissed  the  child  while  she  struggled  to  get  away.  She  had  found  the  stub  of  a  broom  and  wanted  to  sweep  the  floor,  raising  a  pile  of  dust  with  a  few  leaves  and  pieces  of  straw.  He  unpacked  a  bottle  of  vodka,  setting  it  with  some  books  on  the  stone  shelf  over  the  fireplace.  To  think.  There  was  no  one  out  in  the  quiet  rocky  fields,  dark  now  with  night.  What  a  shocking  change  they  had  made,  and  all  for  the  better.  He  opened  a  can  of  kippered  herrings  and  put  two  onwhat  had  become  a  wadded  piece  of  bread,  giving  the  child  a  canned  Coke  to  go  with  her  sandwich.  They  sat  in  the  doorway  to  eat,  staring  out  toward  newly  significant  stars.  He  must  think  things  over  again.  Hadn't  he  acted  once  more  on  impulse?  What  would  Mr.  Cole  at  the  law  firm  think,  his  leaving  without  any  notice?  He  would  try  it,  that  was  what  he  would  do,  try  it  here  two  days-Satur-  day  and  Sunday-and  if  by  Sunday  evening  it  didn't  look  this  good  he  could  still  get  back  to  the  city  first  thing  Monday  morning.  He  would  rent  a  room,  take  the  child  to  the  same  old  day-care  center  (he  had  paid  a  month  in  advance,  and  burned  no  bridges).  When  Mr.  Cole  got  to  Con-  necticut  Avenue  at  ten  o'clock,  there  he  would  be,  sitting  casually  at  his  desk  typing  on  the  pleadings.  Who  would  be  any  the  wiser?  'The  rail  schedule  showed  the  same  commuter  trains  running  back  to  Union  Station  every  weekday  morning.  It  was  close  enough  here  at  this  farm  to  walk  to  the  Point  of  Rocks  station  if  they  had  to,  even  with  some  of  the  luggage.  Or,  in  case  they  decid-  ed  to  stay,  he  would  write  Mr.  Cole  a  note.  What  would  appeal  to  such  a  lawyer,  swamped  in  [REDACTED]  amenities,  as  cause  for  a  clerk  to  leave?  A  crime  against  nature,  perhaps,  whatever  that  was.  He  laughed  aloud,  delighting  the  child,  who  hadgone  back  to  her  broom  and  believed  herself  the  center  of  his  amusement.  No,  the  lawyer  would  have  to  have  facts.  Even  then,  with  his  enthusiastic  pro  bono,  he  would  expect  his  clerk  to  offer  help  to  the  criminal  instead  of  running  away.  It  would  be  tricky,  get-  ting  a  substantial  reason  for  quitting.  How  about  a  rumor,  wind  of  a  child  molested,  right  in  the  next  apartment,  while  he  was  out  for  milk?  That  would  do.  Mr.  Cole  would  jump  to  one  of  his  pat  conclusions:  afather  had  overreacted.  He  might  even  send  a  memorandum  down  to  Personnel.  Put  him  on  leave  of  absence.  The  lawyer's  whole  attention  could  then  turn  toward  the  unfortunate  mo-  lester.  He  would  be  grieved  to  death  there  was  somebody  still  at  large  with  problems  unresolved.  He  would  forage  half  a  day  among  the  government's  programs  for  the  culturally  disadvan-  taged.  Simply  phrase  the  note  with  a  mix-  ture  of  panic  and  courtesy.  It  was  bound  to  be  well  received.  After  all,  Mr.  Cole's  older  brother  was  still  a  family  friend.  Or  hadn't  that  one  died?  When  you  thought  of  anyone  you  hadn't  seen  in  a  week,  you  could  never  be  perfectly  sure.  Well,  so  much  for  this  first  day,  for  their  first  taste  of  freedom.  Before  he  took  a  drink,  they  would  get  ready  for  bed.  Mr.  Morecock  was  no  more  than  a  character  out  of  stock  and  would  sleep  hard  and  unsuspiciously.  Why  shouldn't  he,  God  knew,  in  such  a  place  as  this-no  sirens,  hoots,  no  screams  from  the  street.  No  streets  to  scream  in,  even.  He  would  have  a  sip  of  vodka  with  the  pure  country  water.  They  had  an  unvarying  routine,  he  and  the  child.  After  her  gown  was  on,  he  read  a  little  &quot;Alice.&quot;  Then  prayers,  but  just  a  quick  Hail  Mary  tonight,  as  he  was  not  up  to  even  one  Our  Father.  When  the  child  was  flat  in  bed,  he  gazed  down  into  her  face,  leaned  in-  to  her  contentment.  Her  eyes  carried  the  solemn  blue  he  imagined  came  from  a  dozen  lonely  mothers,  born  over " b"again.  And  folded  inside  her  were  all  the  codes  of  the  past,  which  he  would  not  allow  t  o  be  destroyed  by  [REDACTED]  the  beautiful.  Honor.  Had  he  had  one  drink  or  two?  The  ho  nor  and  faith  of  the  dead.  Yes,  this  complete  isolation  was  just  what  the  y  had  to  have,  what  both  of  them  were  craving.  They  would  be  like  Jews  and  create  the  ir  o  wn  survival  on  family  memory  and  faith.  On  and  on  through  countless  crazy  centu  ries.  The  city,  so  close  an  d  so  far,  had  strained  them  too  long.  T  hey  would  stay;  it  was  decided.  Stay  and  restore  an  elder-  ly  farmer's  f  aith  in  human  nature.  N  soon  as  the  child  was  asleep,  he  began  to  drink  in  earnest.  The  room,  with  its  spareness  and  the  glow  of  the  lamp,  took  on  a  benign  com-  posure.  He  closed  the  funny  little  door  against  the  cool  of  night.  Summer  was  close  and  there  no  doubt  would  be  frogs  and  crickets,  doves  with  their  steady  mourning.  He  would  enjoy  the  work  tomorrow.  It  would  be  good  to  get  the  sun  and  air  and  do  some  heavy  work,  the  child  right  beside  him,  learn-  ing  all  that  he  knew.  A  while  ago  he  had  felt  tired,  but  now  he  was  over-alert.  He  wanted  to  think  of  how  smoothly  he  had  got  away  from  the  endless  stack  of  plead-  ings  on  his  desk  at  Cole  &amp;  Cole.  Even  though  they  gave  raises  in  salary,  ex-  penses  took  them  up.  Here,  where  he  couldn't  even  get  to  a  store,  he  would  save  part  of  the  small  wages  and  buy  the  child  more  books.  That  was  all  she  would  have  in  this  great  bogus  country:  her  informed  mind  and  heart.  And  of  course  she  would  have  grown  up  with  him.  They  would  go  to  Mass,  walking  wherever  it  was.  People  would  think  of  them  as  a  pious  father  and  daughter  and  they  would  never  be  discovered.  He  had  to  laugh  out  loud.  Even  though  we  are  nobody,  we  will  never  be  dis-  covered.  He  was  in  bed  fully  dressed  and  yet  entirely  unaware  of  having  lain  down.  How  long  he  had  been  asleep  he  did  not  know.  He  was  awakened  by  a  noise.  The  door  was  shut,  but  where  was  the  little  window?  Someone  was  breaking  in.  The  vodka  bottle  was  empty,  and  he  had  forgotten  to  hide  it.  Since  sobriety  was  a  condition  of  em-  ployment,  the  suspicious  farmer  was  coming  in  to  check  up  on  his  word.  Dana  hopped  up  and  began  to  search  the  floor  for  the  bottle,  coming  upon  it  just  as  he  could  hear  the  older  man  breathing  hard  under  the  window,  where  he  must  have  got  in.  He  jammed  it  under  the  mattress  and  stood  up,  his  head  clearing  rapidly.  &quot;What  do  you  want?&quot;  he  asked.  His  voice  fell  just  short  of  the  notes  he  had  intended.  There  was  only  the  noise  of  breath-  ing.  Yes,  his  plan  to  go  back  to  Mr.  Cole  was  the  logical  thing  to  do.  The  city's  busiest  lawyers  left  you  alone  at  night.  They  would  not  even  phone  after  five  when  they  couldn't  find  a  file.  Suddenly  he  was  indignant.  Where  was  this  heathenfarmer?  From  the  start,  he  hadn't  liked  his  looks.  The  center  of  his  forehead  tingled  as  he  slowly  ap-  proached  the  window.  There  the  farm-  er  was,  standing  with  arms  akimbo,  smelling  the  air  and  clucking.  He  wouldpunch  the  old  man  out,  coming  uponthem  unannounced.  Carefully,  steadily,  he  drew  back  his  right  arm.  Then,  clearly  sensing  the  farmer's  ex-  act  location  on  the  right  side  of  the  window,  he  lurched  forward,  his  fist  shooting  forward.  It  was  a  moment  before  he  could  evaluate  results.  He  was  sitting  up  in  bed,  and  Mr.  Cole  was  standing  over  a  crib,  admiring  a  little  baby.  My  child  is  a  little  baby,  and  here  I  thought  she  was  five.  &quot;I'm  sorry  I  left  the  firm,&quot;  he  said,  retrieving  his  city  diction  and  monitoring  it  carefully.  &quot;It  was  a  mat-  ter  of  necessity.&quot;  Mr.  Cole  seemed  not  to  mind-indeed,  to  think  nothing  of  it,  continuing  to  make  a  fuss  over  the  baby.  Perhaps  he  should  get  up.  He  should  thank  him  again  for  the  silver  porridge  bowl.  No,  the  elder  Cole  had  sent  that.  Then  he  should  state  un-  equivocally  that  he  would  be  at  work  as  usual  Monday  morning.  But  telling  a  man  you  worked  for  that  you  would  be  at  work  seemed  a  silly  thing  to  do.  And  why  had  he  not  fallen  just  now  when  he  assaulted  the  figure  he  took  to  be  Mr.  Morecock?  He  got  up,  and  embarrassment  fell  away  as  details  of  the  dream  receded.  ...  Everything  here  was  fine,  match-  ing  recent  memory.  'The  child,  big  and  in  bed.  The  strange  room.  And  the  gentle  sense  of  surrounding  fields,  vacant  of  opinion. "