 b"THE  small  children  are  reading  from  a  book  filled  with  simple  words  and  sentences.  &quot;'Once  upon  a  time  there  was  a  little  chimney-sweep,  whose  name  was  Tom.  &quot;  &quot;  'He  cried  half  his  time,  and  laughed  the  other  half&quot;  &quot;  &quot;  'You  would  have  been  giddy,  per-  haps,  at  looking  down:  but  Tom  was  not.&quot;  &quot;  &quot;  'You,  of  course,  would  havebeen  very  cold  sitting  there  on  a  September  night,  without  the  least  bit  of  clothes  on  your  wet  back;  but  Tom  was  a  water-baby,  and  therefore  felt  cold  no  more  than  a  fish.  &quot;  The  children  have  already  learned  to  write  their  names  in  beautiful  pen-  manship.  They  have  already  learned  how  many  farthings  make  a  penny,  howmany  pennies  make  a  shilling,  how  many  shillings  make  a  pound,  how  many  days  in  April,  how  many  stone  in  a  ton.  Now  they  singsong  here  and  tumble  there,  tearing  skirts  with  swift  movements.  Must  Dulcie  really  cry  after  thirteen  of  her  play  chums  have  sat  on  her?  'There,  Dulcie,  there.  I  myself  havebeen  kissed  by  many  rude  boys  with  small,  damp  lips,  on  their  way  to  boys'  drill.  I  myself  have  humped  girls  under  my  mother's  house.  But  I  swim  in  a  shaft  of  light,  upside  down,  and  I  can  see  myself  clearly,  through  and  through,  from  every  an-  gle.  Perhaps  I  stand  on  the  brink  of  a  great  discovery,  and  perhaps  after  I  have  made  my  great  discovery  I  will  be  sent  home  in  chains.  Then  again,  perhaps  my  life  is  as  predictable  as  an  insect's  and  I  am  in  my  pupa  stage.  How  low  can  I  sink,  then?  That  wom-  an  over  there,  that  large-bottomed  woman,  is  important  to  me.  It's  for  her  that  I  save  up  my  sixpences  instead  of  spending  for  sweets.  Is  this  a  love  like  no  other?  And  what  pain  have  I  caused  her?  And  does  she  love  me?  My  needs  are  great,  I  can  see.  But  there  are  the  children  again  (of  which  I  am  one),  shrieking,  whether  in  pain  or  pleasure  I  cannot  tell.  The  children,  who  are  beautiful  in  groupings  of  three,  and  who  only  last  night  pleaded  with  their  mothers  to  sing  softly  to  them,  are  to-  day  maiming  each  other.  The  children  at  the  end  of  the  day  have  sour  necks,  frayed  hair,  dirt  under  their  fingernails,  scuffed  shoes,  torn  clothing.  And  why?  First  they  must  be  children.  I  shall  grow  up  to  be  a  tall,  graceful,  and  altogether  beautiful  woman,  and  I  shall  impose  on  large  numbers  of  people  my  will  and  also,  for  my  own  amuse-  ment,  great  pain.  But  now.  I  shall  try  to  see  clearly.  I  shall  try  to  tell  differ-  ences.  I  shall  tryto  distinguish  the  sub-  tle  gradations  of  color  in  fine  cloth,  of  fingernail  length,  of  manners.  That  woman  over  there.  Is  she  cruel?  Does  she  love  me?  And  if  not,  can  I  make  her?  I  am  not  yet  tall,  beautiful,  grace-  ful,  and  able  to  impose  my  will.  Now  I  swim  in  a  shaft  of  light  and  can  see  my-  self  clearly.  The  schoolhouse  is  yellow  and  stands  among  big  green-leaved  trees.  Inside  are  our  desks  and  a  wom-  an  who  wears  spectacles,  playing  the  piano.  Is  a  girl  who  can  sing  &quot;Gaily  the  troubadour,  plucked  his  guitar&quot;  in  a  pleasing  way  worthy  of  being  my  best  friend?  There  is  the  same  girl,  un-  washed  and  glistening,  setting  traps  for  talking  birds.  Is  she  to  be  one  of  my  temptations?  Oh,  this  must  be  a  love  like  no  other.  But  how  can  my  limbs  that  hate  be  the  same  limbs  that  love?  How  can  the  same  limbs  that  make  me  blind  make  me  see?  I  am  defenseless  and  small.  I  shall  try  to  see  clearly.  I  shall  try  to  separate  and  divide  things  as  if  they  were  sums,  as  if  they  were  drygoods  on  the  grocer's  shelves.  Is  this  my  mother?  Is  she  here  to  embar-  rass  me?  What  shall  I  say  about  her  behind  her  back,  when  she  isn't  there,  long  after  she  has  gone?  In  her  smile  lies  her  goodness.  Will  I  always  re-  member  that?  Am  I  horrid?  And  if  so,  will  I  always  be  that  way?  Not  get-  ting  my  own  way  causes  me  to  fret  so,  I  clench  my  fist.  My  charm  is  limited,  and  I  haven't  learned  to  smile  yet.  I  have  picked  many  flowers  and  then  de-  liberately  torn  them  to  shreds,  petal  by  petal.  I  am  so  unhappy,  my  face  is  so  wet,  and  still  I  can  stand  up  and  walk  and  tell  lies  in  the  face  of  terrible  pun-  ishments.  I  can  see  the  great  danger  in  what  I  am-a  defenseless  and  pitiful  child.  Here  is  a  list  of  what  I  must  do.  So  is  my  life  to  be  like  an  apprenticeship  in  dressmaking,  a  thorny  path  to  care-  fully  follow  or  avoid?  Inside,  standing  around  the  spectacled  woman  playing  the  piano,  the  children  are  singing  a  song  in  harmony.  The  children's  voices:  pinks,  blues,  yellows,  violets,  all  sus-  pended.  All  is  soft,  all  is  embracing,  all  is  comforting.  And  yet  I  myself,  at  my  age,  have  suffered.  My  tears,  big,  have  run  down  my  cheeks  in  uneven lines-my  tears,  big,  and  my  hands  too  small  to  hold  them.  My  tears  have  been  the  result  of  my  disappointments.  My  disappointments  stand  up  and  grow  ever  taller.  They  will  not  be  lost  to  me.  There  they  are.  Let  me  pin  tags  on  them.  Let  me  have  them  registered,  like  newly  domesticated  ani-  mals.  Let  me  cherish  my  disappoint-  ments,  fold  them  up,  tuck  them  away,  close  to  my  breast,  because  they  are  so  important.  But  again  I  swim  in  a  shaft  of  light,  upside  down,  and  I  can  see  myself  clearly,  through  and  through,  from  ev-  ery  angle.  Over  there,  I  stand  on  the  brink  ofa  great  discovery,  and  itis  pos-  sible  that  like  an  ancient  piece  of  his-  tory  my  presence  will  leave  room  for  theories.  But  who  will  say?  For  days  my  body  has  been  collecting  water,  but  still  I  won't  cry.  What  is  that  to  me?  I  am  not  yet  a  woman  with  a  terrible  and  unwanted  burden.  I  am  not  yet  a  dog  with  a  cruel  and  unloving  master.  I  am  not  yet  a  tree  growing  on  barren  and  bitter  land.  I  am  not  yet  the  shape  of  darkness  in  a  dungeon.  Where?  What?  Why?  Oh  that!  I  am  primitive  and  wingless.  How  then?  ON'T  eat  the  strings  on  ba-  nanas-they  will  wrap  around  your  heart  and  kill  you.&quot;  &quot;Oh.  Is  that  true?&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cN0.\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;Is  that  something  to  tell  chil-  dren?&quot;  &quot;No.  But  it's  so  funny.  You  should  see  how  you  look  trying  to  remove  all  the  strings  from  the  bananas  with  your  monkey  fingernails.  Frightened?&quot;  &quot;Frightened.  Very  frightened.&quot;  ODAY,  keeping  a  safe  distance,  I  followed  the  woman  I  love  when  she  went  for  a  walk  on  a  carpet  of  pond  lilies.  As  she  walked,  she  ate  some  black  nuts,  pond-lily  black  nuts.  She  walked  for  a  long  time,  saying  what  must  be  wonderful  things  to  herself.  Then  in  the  middle  of  the  pond  she  stopped,  because  a  man  had  stood  up  suddenly  in  front  of  her.  I  could  see  that  he  wore  clothes  made  of  tree  bark  and  sticks  in  his  ears.  He  said  things  to  her  and  I  couldn't  make  them  out,  but  he  said  them  to  her  so  forcefully  that  drops  of  brown  water  sprang  from  his  mouth.  The  woman  I  love  put  her  hands  over  her  ears,  shielding  herself  from  the  things  he  said.  Then  he  put  wind  in  his  cheeks  and  blew  himself  up  until  in  the  bright  sun  he  looked  like  a  boil,  and  the  woman  I  love  put  her  hands  over  her  eyes,  shielding  herself  " b"from  the  way  he  looked.  Then,  instead  of  removing  her  cutlass  from  the  folds  of  her  big  and  beautiful  skirt  and  cut-  ting  the  man  in  two  at  the  waist,  she  only  smiled-a  red,  red  smile-and  like  a  fly  he  dropped  dead.  HE  sea,  the  shimmering  pink-  colored  sand,  the  swimmers  with  hats,  two  people  walking  arm  in  arm,  talking  in  each  other's  faces,  dotsof  water  landing  on  noses,  the  sea  spray  on  ankles,  on  overdeveloped  calves,  the  blue,  the  green,  the  black,  so  deep,  so  smooth,  a  great  and  swift  undercur-  rent,  glassy,  the  white  wavelets,  a  storm  so  blinding  that  the  salt  got  in  our  eyes,  thesea  turning  inside  out,  shaking  everything  up  like  a  bottle  with  sediment,  a  boat  with  two  people  heaving  a  brown  package  overboard,  the  mystery,  the  sharp  teeth  of  that  yel-  low  spotted  eel,  the  wriggle,  the  smooth  lines,  open  mouths,  families  of  great  noisy  birds,  families  of  great  noisy  people,  families  of  biting  flies,  the  sea,  following  me  home,  snapping  at  my  heels,  all  the  way  to  the  door,  the  sea,  the  woman.  &quot;I  have  frightened  you?  Again,  you  are  frightened  of  me?&quot;  &quot;You  have  frightened  me.  I  am  very  frightened  of  you.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  you  should  see  your  face.  I  wish  you  could  see  your  face.  How  you  make  me  laugh.&quot;  ND  what  are  my  fears?  What  large  cows!  When  I  see  them  coming,  shall  I  run  and  hide  face  down  in  the  gutter?  Are  they  really  cows?  Can  I  stand  in  a  field  of  tall  grass  and  see  nothing  for  miles  and  miles?  On  the  other  hand,  the  sky,  which  is  big  and  blue  as  always,  has  its  limits.  This  afternoon  the  wind  is  loud  as  in  a  hurricane.  There  isn't  enough  light.  There  is  a  noise-I  can't  tell  where  itis  coming  from.  A  big  box  has  stamped  on  it  &quot;Handle  Carefully.&quot;  I  have  been  in  a  big  white  building  with  curving  corridors.  I  have  passed  a  dead  person.  There  is  the  woman  Ilove,  who  is  so  much  bigger  than  me.  HAT  mosquito  ...now  a  stain  on  the  wall.  That  lizard,  running  up  and  down,  up  and  down  ...  now  so  still.  That  ant,  bloated  and  sluggish,  a  purseful  of  eggs  in  its  jaws  ...  now  so  still.  That  blue-and-green  bird,  head  held  aloft,  singing  ...now  so  still.  That  land  crab,  moving  slowly,  softly,  even  beautifully,  sideways  .  ..  but  now  so  still.  That  cricket,  standing  on  a  tree  stem,  so  ugly,  sorevolting,I  am  made  so  unhappy  ...  now  so  still.  That  mon-goose,  now  asleep  in  its  hole,  now  steal-  ing  the  sleeping  chickens,  moving  so  quickly,  its  eyes  like  two  grains  of  light  ...  now  so  still.  That  fly,  moving  so  contentedly  from  tea  bun  to  tea  bun  ..  .  now  so  still.  That  butterfly,  moving  contentedly  from  beautiful  plant  to  beautiful  plant  in  the  early-morning  sun  ...  now  so  still.  That  tadpole,  swim-  ming  playfully  in  the  shallow  water  .  ..  now  so  still.  Ishall  cast  a  shadow  and  I  shall  re-  main  unaware.  My  hands,  brown  on  this  side,  pink  on  this  side,  now  indiscriminately  dan-  gerous,  now  vagabond  and  prodigal,  now  cruel  and  careless,  now  without  remorse  or  forgiveness,  but  now  in-  nocently  slipping  into  a  dress  with  braided  sleeves,  now  holding  an  ice-  cream  cone,  now  reaching  up  with  longing,  now  clasped  in  prayer,  now  feeling  for  reassurance,  now  pleading  my  desires,  now  pleasing,  and  now,  even  now,  so  still  in  bed,  in  sleep. "