 b"HARD  times.  It  often  seems  that there's  nothing  left  but  the  darker  side.  How  are  you  go-  ing  to  cope?  Courage  It's  done  every  day,  routinely,  by  millions  of  people  very  much  like  you.  Sure,  it's  hard.  Anything  worth  doing  is  hard.  You  say  you've  heard  that  be-  fore?  Then  try  this:  if  you  don't  do  it  you  won't  eat,  and  oneday  they'll  come  and  drag  you  into  the  street,  naked  and  ashamed,  as  an  example  to  us  all.  So  get  up,  dammit.  This  sort  of  thing  won't  do  at  all.  Snap  to.  Get  up!  Nor  Your  FavuuT  Well,  it  isn't.  It's  the  book's  fault.  They  weren't  clear-how  were  you  to  know?  O.K.,  no  sweat,  take  a  level  cup  of  shortening,  melt  it,  and  pour  it  in  with  the  batter.  Mix  it  now  and  then,  so  it  doesn't  lump  up.  [REDACTED]  it  in  the  oven.  Absolutely  not  your  fault.  It  never  was.  Now  that  you  have  this  shortening  thing  licked,  you're  good.  MacHinE\xc2\xaes  Don't  let  them  intimidate  you.  Does  a  machine  have  eyes?  Does  a  machine  have  hands,  affections,  passions?  Pull  up  a  chair.  Have  a  cup  of  tea.  Every  last  one  of  these  companies  covers  up  its  work  with  polished  aluminum  and  fancy  buttons:  dashboards,  amplifier  panels,  consoles.  Don't  be  fooled;  two  screws  will  adjust  everything.  Are  you  calm  now?  Know  who's  boss?  O.K.,  take  a  look  from  under-  neath.  Do  you  see  all  the  alligator  clips?  (An  alligator  clip  is  a  hinge-like  clamp  with  teeth.  All  machines  are  heldtogether  with  similar  simplicities.  Take  comfort  in  the  fact  that  all  ma-  chinesare  logical.  They  rather  insist  upon  it.)  Undo  the  clamps.  See  how  easily  the  panel  slips  off?  Don't  be  dis-  turbed  by  all  the  wires,  transistors,  ca-  pacitors,  harmoniums,  catheters.  See  the  screws,  precisely  in  the  middle?  Turn  the  Phillips  screw  to  the  right.  Turn  Horatio's  screw  to  the  left.  Now  slide  the  panel  back  on  and  reattach  the  alli-  gators.  Fixed!  Love  Oh,  but  it  do  get  depressing,  don't  it'  You  think  you've  found  your  one  and  only,  and  then  she  brings  in  the  Boy  Wonder.  So  take  some  time  off.  Take  a  trip  West.  In  [REDACTED]  things  are  still  pretty  much  O.K.  [REDACTED]  is  the  center  of  the  seesaw.  So  how  will  you  know  her,  your  true  love?  Watch  for  the  glass  of  water.  Does  it  arrive  at  all?  Does  it  have  ice  in  it?  Does  she  spill  it?  Show  you're  thirsty:  Drink  it  down.  Some  places  they'll  bring  you  no  more;  at  others  it  will  come  too  late,  when  you'd  rather  have  coffee.  One  place  you'll  drink  it  down,  go  to  the  salad  bar,  and  return  to  find  a  bigger  glass,  filled  with  carrot  juice.  Follow  her  to  the  kitchen.  You'll  see  her  scraping  carrots,  and  everything  will  make  sense.  &quot;Oh,  wondrous,&quot;  you'll  say,  draining  the  glass.  &quot;Won-  drous  child  of  the  prairies!&quot;  &quot;Pardon  [REDACTED];  You  hold  out  the  glass.  &quot;More?&quot;  She  looks  puzzled.  You  take  her  hand,  wrap  it  under  yours  around  the  glass.  &quot;More?&quot;  you  say.  &quot;Please?  More?&quot;  Ox  tHE  Jos  It's  time  you  made  your  move.  Be  firm.  Practice  firmness  by  installing  a  tape  deck  in  your  car.  Drive  around  and  play  the  &quot;Eroica&quot;  at  full  volume.  If  it  becomes  too  much  for  you,  stop  off  at  the  park  and  pretend  to  shoot  the  cannons.  Once  at  work,  strike  imme-  diately  at  the  problem.  If  it's  a  fellow-  employee,  knock  thecoffee  from  his  hand  and  say,  &quot;I've  had  it  with  you,  Muldoon!&quot;  If  it's  the  boss-damned  prima  donna-challenge  him  to  arm-  wrestle  before  the  entire  staff,  winner  take  all.  If  it's  a  machine,  start  looking  for  the  alligator  clips.  You  Know  Wuo  You  Are  You've  made  it.  Everyone  can  see  that  you're  terrific.  Yes,  there  were  hard  times-that  time  you  went  to  Ne-  braska.  You  saw  some  good  men  fall.  But  it's  all  behind  you  now.  You're  the  New  Man.  Tough.  Resilient.  Sharp.  You're  the  man  the  world's  been  waiting  for.  Women?  You  can  handle  them.  Taste?  You've  got  it.  Europe?  You've  been  there.  It's  the  cars  you  drive,  the  clothes  you  wear.  Everything  about  you  has  that  look.  That  Extra  Something.  You  know  who  you  are.  You're  all  you  need.  Tar  Way  IT  Is  Let  her  know.  Is  she  is  or  is  she  ain't?  It's  a  matter  of  priorities.  Times  have  changed.  The  simple  truth  is  that  the  problem  has  been  exaggerated.  Who  did  you  hurt,  really?  Aren't  you  entitled  to  some  privacy?  Don't  let  her  give  you  that  business  about  the  kids.  You've  got  only  one  life  to  live.  It's  not  a  matter  of  selfishness.  This  martyrdom  business  never  did  make  any  sense.  They've  got  to  learn  sometime.  These  are  hard  times.  And  it's  a  fact:  children  grow  up  a  lot  quicker  than  they  used  to.  FrEE  What  did  she  say?  Was  that  actually  what  she  said?  How  could  she  have  said  such  a  thing  about  you?  And  have  done  what  she  did?  It's  true  that  she  was  free.  Never  once  did  you  say,  &quot;No,  I  won't  let  you.&quot;  She  was  free.  Still.  Well,  don't  think  about  it  too  much.  Just  let  her  go,  that's  all.  If  she  wants  to  act  like  that,  let  her  go.  Don't  think  about  it.  Aren't  you  free?  You're  free.  You're  incredibly  free.  Everything  is  free.  It's  very  free.  It's  very  much  freer  than  it  was.  Move  with  it.  Be  fluid.  Everything  is  moving;  be  fluid.  Don't  stop.  Did  she  really  say  that?  Eattur  Foops  Nothing's  free.  Nothing  moves.  You  blew  it.  A  trailer  park  in  [REDACTED],  stamp-  collecting,  swatting  flies  You  trade  stories  with  your  neighbor,  talking  of  how  it  was.  You  try  to  eat  the  right  foods.  Do  a  little  fishing.  It's  too  late.  Hope  ETERNAL  Is  it  too  late?  Are  you  worried  what  your  friends  will  say?  Are  your  teeth  sufficiently  white?  Do  you  drink  too  much?  Has  sex  gone  sour?  Does  any-  one  love  you?  Are  you  very  far  from  God?  Is  there  any  way  to  find  One-  ness?  There  might  be.  How?  Through  carrots,  potatoes,  yams,  Jerusalem  artichokes.  Only  through  roots,  you  tell  your  neighbor,  is  there  true  aware-  ness-buried  roots!  (The  exposed  ones,  like  turnips  and  beets,  are  im-  pure.  It's  the  air.)  Your  neighbor  turns  away.  Don't  be  discouraged.  Think  of  rich,  fallow  ground.  Lie  in  the  loose  warm  soil,  carrots  growing  around  you.  Eat  of  the  root,  rise  up  from  the  soil!  It  might  work.  "