 b"WHEN  I  first  became  aware  of  the  novelist  and  critic  Frank  Grange,  I  was  taking  a  junior  year  abroad  at  the  American  Academy  in  Boissiere-en-Verre,  a  suburb  in  the  South  of  [REDACTED].  Each  May,  the  Acad-  emy  hosted  a  colloquium  with  an  in-  ternational  roster  of  participants.  The  year  was  1963,  and  I  shall  never  for-  get  the  excitement  when  Grange,  ob-  scured  by  the  smoke  from  two  packs  of  Home  Run  cigarettes,  presented  his  now  classic  paper  &quot;Toward  the  Inef-  fable:  A  Pronouncing  Gazetteer&quot;  the  most  provocative  challenge  of  that  annual  pause  in  the  history  of  ideas.  Beginning  with  &quot;Too  Soon,  the  Pe-  tits  Fours&quot;  (1939),  Grange  has  knitted  a  string  of  critical  successes,  among  them  &quot;Derision  of  Grackles&quot;  (1946),  &quot;Young  Pemmican&quot;  (1963),  and  ''Topeka,  Threepeka&quot;  (1972).  Rec-  ognition  has  been  late  but  lavish,  and  has  included  the  Prix  Unique  and,  most  recently,  the  coveted  Chalice  of  Com-  petence.  His  translations  of  the  &quot;Disko  Eclogues&quot;  and  &quot;Sappho's  Farewell  to  Paula&quot;  are  widely  known,  as  are  his  frequent  essays  and  reviews  in  Fore-  head  and  La  seule  revue  qui  compte.  Arriving  for  the  interview  at  Grange's  home,  in  New  Wyfe,  Con-  necticut,I  was  welcomed  by  the  sec-  ond  Mrs.  Grange,  a  stunning  and  withdrawn  woman  holding  a  plate  of  the  freshest  gingersnaps  I  had  ever  seen.  She  took  me  to  Grange,  who  right  off  insisted  on  my  employing  the  familiar  &quot;you&quot;&quot;  form,  though  I  had  met  him  but  the  one  time  before.  Eager  to  talk  but  also  to  listen,  he  kept  one  hand  cupped  as  an  acoustical  aide-the  only  gesture  that  caused  me  to  ponder  his  often  cited  vanity,  drawing  attention  as  it  did  to  his  (indeed)  fine,  tiny  ears.  Except  for  bifocals  and  a  receding  hair-  line,  he  might  have  been  a  young  schoolgirl.  Kw  Dartmoute  HoumEs:  Do  you  mind  if  we  take  care  of  the  &quot;over-  whelming  question&quot;  first?  W  hat  is  your  writing  schedule  like?  Any  gimmicks?  Frank  Grancr:  I'm  glad  you  use  the  word-I've  always  found  the  ob-  session  with  the  mechanics  of  one's  craft  crazy.  Still,  we  can't  know  what  people  centuries  from  now  will  find  helpful.  So  often,  I  think  you'll  find,  the  fount  of  genius  springs  from  a  foun-  tain  pen  of  quality.  This  is  mine:  the  Mark  Cross  Perma-Muse  1000.  The  odometer  is  activated  by  a  switch;  nights,  I  cover  it  with  this  little  quilt.  That  in  hand,  most  days  Iget  to  work  by  seven,  go  until  noon.  Lunch  is  at  my  desk:  a  small  salad,  acold  cut.  If  I'm  stuck  on  something,  I  may  watch  thekids  play;  maybe  give  the  bird  some  flying  time.  Then  back  to  work.  R.H.:  I  see  you  use  graph  paper.  F.G.:  That's  it,  yes.  Five  boxes  to  the  inch.  I  try  to  stay  with  the  work-  ie.,  with  the  pen,  with  the  paper-  until  around  five,  five-thirty.  Then  supper,  the  family.  I  generally  excuse  myself  by  six,  for  a  final  scrimmage  at  the  desk  that  lasts  until  ten  or  eleven.  Sometimes  we  decline  an  invitation.  Otherwise  very  habitual,  even  chronic.  R.H.:  Then  that's  the  &quot;secret&quot;  of  your  prolificacy?  F.G.:  Yes.  I  don't  write  at  a  Trol-  lope,  as  it  were,  nor  do  I  care  to  mea-  sure  my  work  in  that  way.  If  I  can  fill  fifteen  hundred  boxes  in  a  day,I  know  I've  written  sixty  square  inches.  In  two  months  .  ..  that's  a  little  under  half  a  pound.  I'm  content  with  that.  R.H.:  Have  you  ever  been  tempted  to  take  anything  to  increase  your  out-  put?  Alter  your  consciousness?  F.G.:  Writing  is  a  serious  business.  You  can't  get  around  that,  and  no  manner  of  goofball  orvitamin  supple-  ment  is  going  to  stock  the  pantry  of  the  heart  with  experience  or  insight.  R.H.:  I  think  too  few  of  our  young  writers  understand  that.  F.G.:  It's  sobering  to  think  that  Francois  Villon,  for  instance,  cannot  have  known  coffee.  My  doctor  is  of  the  old  school,  and  the  most  he'll  prescribe  for  me  is  a  very  light  tablet  of  some-  thing  called  Barbadoze-a  gentle  anal-  gesic  and  exultant.  About  the  lift  you  get  when  the  dog  brings  your  slippers.  R.H.:  Then  you've  never  really  ex-  perimented-  F.G.:  Did  you  ever  try  Trankettes?  I  wrote  all  of  &quot;The  Great  Cr\xc3\xa9che&quot;  on  those,  and  when  I  came  down,  I  hadn't  the  faintest  idea  what  it  said,  or  why  I  was  being  handed  a  necklace  of  bear  claws  by  the  mayor  of  Fairbanks.  I'd  be  too  scared  to  try  that  again.  R.H.:  That  book  seems  to  have  gen-  erated  more  discussion  than  your  other  works  combined.  Is  this  discouraging?  I'm  thinking,  say,  of  Hugh  Lyon's  reading  of  the  hero,  where  Kittenz  is  not  so  much  charmed  as  he  is  horribly  disfigured  by  the  Badenock  sisters.  F.G.:  This  is  a  credible  reading,  es-  pecially  if  you  remember  that  the  weave  of  his  sports  jacket  is  the  same  as  Muffy's  kilt.  But  if  the  whole  thing  is  seen  as  a  kind  of  parody  of  the  narra-  tive,  a  double-knit  &quot;meta-yarn,&quot;  so  to  speak-  R.H.:  I  know  at  what  you're  driv-  ing.  Nabokov,  in  one  of  the  works,  ob-  serves  how  often  life  imitates  Zola.  I've  always  thought-  F.G.:  A  proud  man.  But  capable.  I  used  to  tease  him:  &quot;Sasha,&quot;  I  would  say,  &quot;are  you  sure  you  didn't  write  'Papillon'?&quot;  (Leughs)  R.H.:  What  did  he  say?  F.G.:  I've  forgotten.  Possibly  he  was  a  little  awed.  As  you  yourself  have  pointed  out,  Barney-  R.H.:  &quot;Roy.&quot;  F.G.:  Just  testing.  I  can't  stand  an  interviewer  who  hasn't  done  his  home-  work.  R.H.:  Tell  me,  what's  been  your  response  to  the  notion  that  the  novel's  traditional  features-plot,  omniscience,  pagination,  and  so  on-are  now  obso-  lete?  F.G.:  Unfortunately,  that's  like  ask-  ing,  &quot;Which  makes  a  heartier  soup,  pearl  barley  or  Pearl  Bailey?&quot;  R.H.:  I'm  thinking  of  those  who  would  make  the  novel  &quot;relevant,&quot;  in  the  sense  of  its  addressing  contemporary  social  or  scientific  thinking.  Do  you  feel  this  responsibility?  In  your  own  case,  toward  something  like  the  Heisenberg  Uncertainty  Principle,  no-bounce  checking  ...  F.G.:  I  respect  the  attempts  of  my  doughtier  confreres,  but  aren't  they  get-  ting  carried  away?  If  they'd  applied  the  law  of  gravity  to  music,  there  would  have  been  no  real  high  notes  after  [REDACTED].  Would  we  still  be  listening  to  a  Bellini  &quot;Norman&quot;?  R.H.:  Then  you  do  have  a  point  of  view.  F.G.:  Now  you've  caught  me.  I'd  intended  to  save  this  fora  later  book,  but  no  matter.  Theories  are  fine-in  theory.  But  out  of  the  hands  of  trained  specialists  they  tend  to  tyrannize  the  best  instincts  ofthe  ordinary  reader.  My  son  is  in  the  ninth  grade-fright-  eningly  sharp.  I  asked  him  how  he  was  liking  &quot;Madame  Bovary&quot;-  R.H.:  Flaubert.  " b"F.G.:  Yes,  the  author-and  he  said  he  couldn't  bear  all  the  &quot;gestaltist  ad-  jectives,&quot;  the  &quot;forced  corralling&quot;  of  his  senses.  This,  to  him,  is  &quot;gross.&quot;  He  prefers  the  essential  bareness  of  a  cen-  terfold.  R.H.:  Still,  could  one  say  there  is  more  integrity  in  an  object  that  is  not  simply  a  repository  of  sensations  or  sym-  bols?  Is  there  perhaps  something  noble  in  such  an  object's  refusing-as  some-  one  has  said-&quot;with  all  the  churlishness  of  its  elsewhere  to  wow  the  reader  with  its  scrutability&quot;?  F.G.:  Of  course!  I'd  refuse,  too.  R.H.:  Yet  you  yourself  are  not  in-  nocent  of  the  charge  of  manipulating  the  reader.  How  do  you  account  for  the  incredible  details  in  the  long  rinse-  cycle  section  of  &quot;Aurora  Bored  All  of  Us&quot;?  F.G.:  Let's  be  candid.  The  Nexta-  Godliness  Laundromat  actually  exists.  With  five  in  the  family,  my  wife  spends  days  there.  She  buzzes  when  she  gets  home.  If  I'm  at  a  stopping  point,  I  get  the  door.  Her  arms  are  full,  she  wears  a  glazed  expression.  But  the  windfall  for  me  is  that  she  can't  sleep  until  she's  recited  the  whole  ex-  perience,  transmuting  it  as  she  goes  into  a  kind  of  lyrical  effluvium.  I  just  take  it  down.  When  she  finally  tran-  scribes  my  notes,  I  think  her  relief  must  be  tremendous.  R.H.:  Who  interests  you?   Stra-  vinsky?  F.G.;  Yeah.  R.H.:  But  who  got  you  started?  Was  it  someone,  or  some  thing?  F.G.:  Well,  of  course  it  all  began  with  reading.  As  a  youngster,  I  was  ravenous  and  indiscriminate:  &quot;Rats,  Lice  &amp;  History,&quot;  Clausewitz's  &quot;Vom  Kriege&quot;-  R.H.:  You  were  bilingual?  F.G.:  No.  But  at  that  age  you  don't  know  enough  to  be  daunted.  I  can't,  in  fact,  imagine  how  I  understood  that-  or  the  &quot;Tractatus,&quot;  for  that  matter.  Then  I'd  go  back  just  as  happily  to  something  like  &quot;The  Encyclopedia  of  Horses.&quot;  I  knew  the  rations  for  a  brood  mare  before  I  knew  what  it  was  to  brood.  RH.:  I  know  you  knew  Ulrike  Bildung.  F.G.:  So  do  I.  R.H.:  What  was  she  like?  F.G.:  A  lady  and  a  scholar.  I  re-  member  she  always  kept  a  basket  of  large  nuts  on  the  table,  and  would  hold  your  attention  by  rotating  them  over  and  over  in  one  hand,  like  Captain  Queeg.  The  hypnotic  part  was  that  they  were  coconuts.  R.H.:  She  must  have  had  wonder-  fully  large  hands.  F.G.:  Yes.  R.H.;  Are  there  any  b\xc3\xa9tes  noires  we  haven't  covered?  F.G.:  Let's  see.  ...  This  is  hardly  a  preoccupation:  still,  I'm  finding  The  New  York  Review's  continuing  brief  against  Princess  Margaret's  divorce  a  bit  tedious.  Though  they're  not  alone.  The  editorial  eyeball  generally  hasgot  too  long,  and  the  light  is  falling  just  short  of  the  retina.  Do  I  sound  ex-  treme?  R.H.:  No,  relatively  mild.  I'm  thinking  of  the  protracted  keening  when  the  adjective  passed  away.  F.G.:  Still,  you  notice  how  eager  everybody  was  to  have  a  hand  in  the  autopsy.  Then  right  off  we  were  asked  to  limit  ourselves  to  an  &quot;interrogation&quot;  of  objects,  a  &quot;cross-examination&quot;  of  the  given.  You  had  to  get  a  warrant  to  use  a  noun.  R.H.:  What  can  be  next?  Up  with  what  do  we  end?  F.G.:  Harsher  sentences?  No,  hon-  estly,  I  don't  know.  I'm  working  on  a  long  essay  just  now,  where  I  distin-  guish  between  the  real  and  the  pear.  R.H.:  Yes,  go  on....  F.G.:  I  guess  for  the  moment  I'd  rather  leave  the  cat  in  the  bag. "