 b"BECAUSE  she  looked  older  than  she  was,  eighteen,  andwas  very  pretty,  her  two  slightly  crooked  front  teeth  more  than  offset  by  wheat-  blond  hair  and  green  eyes,  Dylan  Bal-  lentyne  was  allowed  to  bea  waitress  at  the  Cypress  Lodge  without  having  been  a  busgirl  first.  She  hated  the  work-loathed,  despised  it-but  it  was  literally  the  only  job  in  town,  town  be-  ing  a  cluster  of  houses  and  a  couple  of  stores  on  the  northern  [REDACTED]  coast.  Dylan  also  hated  the  town  and  the  wild,  dramatically  desolate  landscape  of  the  area,  to  which  she  and  her  mother  had  moved  at  the  beginning  of  the  sum-  mer,  coming  down  from  San  Francis-  co,  whereDylan  had  been  happy  in  the  sunny  Mission  District,  out  of  sight  of  the  sea.  Now  she  moved  drearily  through  days  of  trays  and  dishes,  spilled  coffee  and  gelatinous  ash-strewn  food,  fat  cross  guests  or  hyper-friendly  ones.  She  was  sustained  by  her  small  pay-  check  and  somewhat  more  generous  tips,  and  by  her  own  large  fantasies  of  ultimate  rescue,  or  escape.  The  Lodge,  an  ornately  Victorian  structure  with  pinnacles  and  turrets,  was  on  a  high  bluff  two  miles  south  of  town,  surrounded  by  sharply  sloping  meadows  which  were  edged  with  dark-  green  cypresses  and  pines,  overlooking  the  turbulent,  shark-infested,  almost  in-accessible  sea.  (One  more  disappoint-  ment:  talking  up  the  move,  Dylan's  mother,  self-named  Flower,  had  in-  vented  long  beach  days  and  picnics;  they  would  both  learn  to  surf,  she  had  said.)  Breakfast  was  served  at  the  Lodge  from  eight  till  ten-thirty,  lunch  from  eleven-thirty  until  two,  in  a  long  glassed-in  porch,  the  dining  room,.  Sup-  posedly  between  those  two  meals  the  help  got  a  break,  half  an  hour  for  a  sandwich  or  a  cigarette,  but  more  often  than  not  it  was  about  five  minutes,  what  with  lingering  breakfasters  and  early,  eager  lunchers.  Dinner  was  at  six,  set  up  at  five-thirty,  and  thus  there  really  was  a  free  hour  or  sometimes  two,  in  the  mid-  to  late  afternoon.  Dy-  lan  usually  spent  this  time  in  the  &quot;library&quot;&quot;  of  the  Lodge,  a  dim,  musty  room,  panelled  in  fake  mahogany.  Too  tired  for  books,  although  her  reading  habits  had  delighted  English  teachers  in  high  school,  she  leafed  through  old  House  Beautifuls,  Gourmets,  or  Vogues,  avidly  drinking  in  all  those  ads  for  the  accoutrements  of  rich  and  leisurely  ex-  otic  lives.  Curiously,  what  she  saw  and  read  made  her  almost  happy,  for  that  limited  time,  like  a  drug.  She  could  nearly  be-  lieve  that  she  saw  herself  in  Vogue,  in  a  Rolls-Royce  ad:a  tall  thin  blond  wom-an  (she  was  thin,  if  not  very  tall)  in silk  and  careless  fur,  one  jewelled  hand  on  the  fender  of  a  silver  car,  and  in  the  background  a  handsome  man,  dark,  wearing  a  tuxedo.  Then  there  was  dinner.  Drinks.  Wines.  Specifics  as  to  the  doneness  of  steaks  or  roasts.  Complaints.  I  ordered  medium  rare.  Is  this  crab  really  fresh?  And  heavy  trays,  The  woman  who  managed  the  restaurant  saw  to  it  that  waitresses  and  busgirls  &quot;shared&quot;  that  labor,  possibly  out  of  some  vaguely  egalitarian  sense  that  the  trays  were  too  heavy  for  any  single  group.  By  eight-  thirty  or  so,  Dylan  and  all  the  girls  would  be  slow-witted  with  exhaustion,  smiles  stiffening  on  their  very  young  faces,  perspiration  drying  under  their  arms  and  down  their  backs.  Then  there  would  come  the  stentorian  voice  of  the  manageress:  &quot;Dylan,  are  you  awake?  You  look  a  thousand  miles  away.&quot;  Actually,  in  her  dreams,  Dylan  was  less  than  two  hundred  miles  away,  in  San  Francisco.  One  fantasy  of  rescue  which  Dylan  recognized  as  childish,  and  unlikely,  probably,  was  that  a  nice  older  couple  (in  their  fifties,  anyway:  Flower  was  only  thirty-eight)  would  adopt  her.  At  the  end  of  their  stay  at  the  Lodge,  after  several  weeks,  they  would  say,  &quot;Well,  Dylan,  we  just  don't  see  how  we're  going  to  get  along  without  you.  Do  you  think  you  could  possibly  ...?&quot;  There  had  in  fact  been  several  couples  who  could  have  filled  that  bill-older  people  from  San  Francisco,  or  even  [REDACTED],  San  Diego,  Scottsdalee-who  stayed  for  a  few  weeks  at  the  Lodge,  who  liked  Dylan  and  tipped  her  gen-  erously.  But  sofar  none  of  them  had  been  unable  to  leave  without  her;they  didn't  even  send  her  postcards.  Another  fantasy,  a  little  more  plau-  sible,  more  grownup,  involved  a  man  who  would  come  to  the  Lodge  alone  and  would  fall  in  love  with  Dylan  and  take  her  away.  The  man  was  as  in-  distinct  as  the  one  in  the  Rolls-Royce  ads,  as  vaguely  handsome,  dark,  and  rich.  In  the  meantime,  the  local  boys  who  came  around  to  see  the  other  waitresses  tried  to  talk  to  Dylan;  their  hair  was  too  long  and  their  faces  splotchily  sun-  burned  from  cycling  and  surfing,  which  were  the  only  two  things  they  did,  besides  drinking  beer.  Dylan  ignored  them,  and  went  on  dreaming.  HE  usual  group  of  guests  at  the  Lodge  didn't  offer  much  material  for  fantasy:  youngish,  well-off  couples  who  arrived  in  big  new  station  wagons  with  several  children,  new  summer  clothes,  and  new  sports  equipment.  " b"Apart  from  these  styl-  ish  parents,  there  were  always  two  or  three  very  young  couples,  perhaps  just  married  or  perhaps  not,  all  with  the  look  of  not  quite  being  able  to  afford  where  they  were,  And  always  some  very  old  people.  There  was,  actually,  one  unmarried  man  (almost  divorced)  among  the  guests,  and  although  he  was  very  nice,  intelligent,  about  twenty-eight,  he  did  not  look  rich,  or,  for  that  matter,  handsome  and  dark.  [REDACTED]  Iverson  was  a  stocky  red-blond  man  with  a  strawberry  birthmark  on  one  side  of  his  neck.  Deep-set  blue  eyes  were  his  best  feature.  Probably  he  was  not  the  one  to  fall  in  love  and  rescue  Dylan,  al-  though  he  seemed  to  like  her  very  much.  Mr.  Iverson,  too,  spent  his  late  afternoons  in  the  Lodge's  li-  brary.  Exactly  what  Mr.  Iverson  did  for  a  living  was  not  clear;  he  mentioned  the  Peace  Corps  and  Vista,  and  then  he  said  that  he  was  writing;  not  nov-  els-articles,  His  wife  was  divorcing  him  and  she  was  making  a  lot  of  trou-  ble  about  money,  he  said:  a  blow,  he  hadn't  thought  she  was  like  that.  (But  how  could  he  have  enough  money  for  anyone  to  make  trouble  about,  Dylan  wondered.)  He  had  brought  down  a  carload  of  books.  When  he  wasn't  reading  in  his  room,  or  working  on  whatever  he  was  writing,  he  took  long,  long  walks,  every  day,  miles  over  the  meadows,  back  and  forth  to  what  there  was  ofa  town.  Glimpsing  him  through  a  window,  as  she  set  up  tables,  Dylan  noted  his  stride,  his  strong  shoulders.  Sometimes  heclimbed  down  the  steep  perilous  banks  to  the  edge  of  the  sea,  to  the  narrow  strip  of  coarse  gray  sand  that  passed  for  a  beach.  Perfectly  safe,  he  said,  if  you  checked  the  tides.  Un-  like  Dylan,  he  was  crazy  about  this  landscape;  he  found  the  sea  and  the  stretching  hills  of  grass  and  rock,  the  acres  of  sky,  all  marvellous;  even  the  billowing  fog  that  threatened  all  sum-  mer  he  saw  as  lovely,  something  amaz-  ing.  Sometimes  Dylan  tried  to  seethe     local  scenery  with  [REDACTED]  Iverson's  eyes,  and  sometimes,  remarkably,  this  worked.  She  was  able  to  imagine  her-  self  a  sojourner  in  this  area,  as  he  was,  and  then  she  could  succumb  to  the  sharp  blue  beauty  of  that  wild  [REDACTED],  the  dark-green,  wind-bent  feathery  cy-  presses,  and  the  sheer  cliffs  going  down  to  the  water,  with  their  crevices  of  moss  and  tiny  brilliant  wild  flowers.  But  usually  she  just  looked  around  in  a  dull,  hating  way.  Usually  she  was  miserably  bored  and  hopelessly  de-  spondent.  THEY  had  moved  down  here  to  the  seaside,  to  this  tiny  nothing  town,  Dylan  and  Flower,  sothat  Flower  could  concentrate  on  making  jewelry,  which  was  her  profession.  Ac-  tually,  the  move  was  the  idea  of  Zach-  ery,  Flower's  boyfriend.  Flower  would  make  the  jewelry  and  Zach  would  take  it  up  to  San  Francisco  to  sell;  someday  he  might  even  try  [REDACTED]  And  Zach  would  bring  back  new  materials  for  Flower  to  use-gold  and  silver  and  pearls.  Flower,  who  was  several  months  behind  in  her  rent,  had  agreed  to  this  plan.  Also,  as  Dylan  saw  it,  Flower  was  totally  dominated  by  Zach,  who  was  big  and  dark  and  roughly  handsome,  and  sometimes  mean.  Dylan  further  suspected  that  Zach  wanted  them  out  of  town,  want-  ed  to  see  less  of  Flower,  and  the  sum-  mer  had  borne  out  her  theory:  instead  of  his  living  with  them  and  making  occasional  forays  to  the  city,  as  Flow-  er  had  imagined,  it  was  just  the  other  way  around.  Zach  made  occasional  visits  to  them,  and  the  rest  of  the  time,  when  she  wasn't  working  or  trying  to  work  on  some  earrings  ora  necklace,  Flower  sat  sipping  the  harsh,  local  red  wine  and  reading  the  used  paperbacks  that  Zach  brought  down  in  big  car-  tons  along  with  the  jewelry  materials-  &quot;to  keep  you  out  of  mischief,&quot;  he  had  said.  Flower  wore  her  graying  blond  hair  long,  in  the  non-style  of  her  whole  adult  life,  and  she  was  putting  on  weight.  When  she  wanted  to  work  she  took  an  upper,  another  commodity  supplied  by  Zach,  but  this  didn't  do  much  to  keep  her  weight  down,  just  kept  her  &quot;wired,&quot;  as  she  sometimes  said,  Dylan  alternated  between  im-  patience  and  the  most  tender  sym-  pathy  for  her  mother,  who  was  in  some  ways  more  like  a  friend;  it  was  often  clear  to  Dylan  that  actually  she  had  to  be  the  stronger  person,  the  one  in  charge.  But  Flower  was  so  nice,  really,  a  wonderful  cook  and  generous  to  her  friends,  and  she  could  be  funny.  Some  of  the  jewelry  she  made  was  " b"beautiful-recently,  a  necklace  of  sil-  ver  and  stones  that  Zach  said  were  real  opals.  Flower  had  talent,  original-  ity.  If  she  could  just  dump  Zach  for  good,  Dylan  thought,  and  then  not  replace  him  with  someone  worse,  as  she  usually  did.  Always  some  mean  jerk.  If  she  could  just  not  drink,  not  take  speed.  From  the  start  Flower  had  been  genuinely  sympathetic  about  Dylan's  awful  job.  &quot;Honey,  I  can  hardly  stand  to  think  about  it,&quot;  she  would  say,  and  her  eyes  would  fill,  She  had  been  a  waitress  several  times  herself.  &quot;You  and  those  heavy  trays,  and  the  mess.  Look,  why  don't  you  just  quit?  Hon-  estly,  we'll  get  by  like  we  always  have.  I'll  just  tell  Zach  he's  got  to  bring  more  stuff  down,  and  sell  more,  too.  And  you  can  help  me.&quot;  This  seemed  a  dangerous  plan  to  Dylan,  possibly  because  it  relied  on  Zach,  who  Dylan  was  sure  would  end  up  in  jail,  or  worse.  She  stubbornly  stuck  with  her  job,  and  on  her  two  days  off  (Mondays  and  Tuesdays,  of  all  useless  days)  she  stayed  in  bed  a  lot,  and  read,  and  allowed  her  mother  to  &quot;spoil&quot;  her,  with  breakfast  trays  (&quot;Well,  after  all,  who  deserves  her  own  tray  more  than  you  do,  baby?&quot;)  and  her  favorite  salads  for  lunch,  with  every  available  fresh  vegetable  and  sometimes  shrimp.  When  she  wasn't  talking  to  her  mother  or  helping  out  with  household  chores,  Dylan  was  reading  a  book  that  Mr.  Iverson  had  lent  her-&quot;The  Eu-  stace  Diamonds,&quot;  by  Trollope.  This  had  come  about  because  one  afternoon,  meeting  him  in  the  library,  Dylan  had  explained  the  old  Vogues,  the  House  Beautifuls  scattered  near  her  lap,  say-  ing  that  she  was  too  tired  just  then  to  read,  and  that  she  missed  television.  The  winter  before,  she  had  loved  &quot;The  Pallisers,&quot;  she  said,  and,  before  that,  &quot;Upstairs,  Downstairs.&quot;  Mr.  Iverson  had  recommended  &quot;The  Eustace  Dia-  monds.&quot;  &quot;It's  really  my  favorite  of  the  Palliser  novels,&quot;  he  said,  and  he  went  to  get  it  for  her-running  all  the  way  up  to  his  room  and  back,  apparently;  he  was  out  of  breath  as  he  handed  her  the  book.  But  why  was  he  so  eager  to  please  her?  She  knew  that  she  was  pretty,  but  she  wasn't  all  that  pretty,  in  her  own  estimation;  she  was  highly  con-  scious  of  the  two  crooked  front  teeth,  although  she  had  perfected  a  ra-  diant,  slightly  false  smile  that  almost  hid  them,  &quot;T  WONDER  if  he  could  be  one  of  the  Iversons,&quot;  Flower  mused,  in-  formed  by  Dylan  one  Monday  of  the  source  of  her  book.  &quot;'The  Iversons:&quot;  In  Flower's  voice  it  had  sounded  like  the  Pallisers.  &quot;One  of  the  really  terrific,  old  San  Francisco  families  You  know,  Hun-  tingtons,  Floods,  Crockers,  Iversons.  What  does  he  look  like,  your  Mr.  Iversont&quot;     Dylan  found  this  hard  to  answer,  although  usually  with  Flower  she  spoke  very  easily,  they  were  so  used  to  each  other.  &quot;Well,&quot;  she  hesitated.  &quot;He's  sort  of  blond,  with  nice  blue  eyes  and  a  small  nose.  He  has  this  birthmark  on  his  neck,  but  it's  not  really  noticeable.&quot;  Flower  laughed.  &quot;In  that  case  he's  not  a  real  Iverson,.  They've  all  got  dark  hair  and  the  most  aristocratic  beaky  noses.  And  none  of  them  could  possibly  have  a  birthmark-they'd  drown  it  at  birth.&quot;  Dvlan  laughed,  too,  although  she  felt  an  obscure  disloyalty  to  Mr.  Iverson.  And  looking  at  Flower  Dylan  thought,  as  she  had  before,  that  Flower  could  change  her  life,  take  charge  of  herself.  She  was  basically  strong.  But  in  the  next  moment  Dylan  decided,  as  she  also  had  before,  more  frequently,  that  probably  Flower  wouldn't  change;  in  her  brief  experience  people  didn't,  ornot  much.  Zach  would  go  to  jail  and  Flow-  er  would  find  somebody  worse,  and  get  grayer  and  fatter.  And  she,  Dylan,  had  better  forget  about  anything  as  childish  as  being  adopted  by  rich  old  people;  she  must  concentrate  on  mar-  rying  someone  who  really  had  money.  Resolution  made  her  feel  suddenly  adult.  &quot;Honey,&quot;  asked  Flower,  &quot;are  you  sure  you  won't  have  a  glass  of  wine?&quot; MY mother  wonders  if  you're  a  real  Iverson.?  Dylan  had  not  quite  meant  to  say  this;  the  sentence  " b"spoke  itself,  leaving  her  slightly  em-  barrassed,  as  she  sat  with  [REDACTED]  Iverson  on  a  small  sofa  in  the  li-  brary.  It  was  her  afternoon  break;  she  was  tired,  and  she  told  herself  that  she  didn't  quite  know  what  she  was  saying.  Mr.  Iverson,  whose  intense  blue  eyes  had  been  staring  into  hers,  now  turned  away,  sothat  Dylan  was  more  aware  of  the  mark  on  his  neck  than  she  had  been  before.  Or  could  it  have  deepened  to  a  darker  mulberry  stain?  He  said,  &quot;Well,  I  am  and  I'm  not,  actually.  I  think  of  them  as  my  parents  and  I  grew  up  with  them,  in  the  Ath-  erton  house,  but  actually  I'm  adopt-  ed.&quot;  &quot;Really?&quot;  Two  girls  Dylan  knew  at  Mission  High  had  got  pregnant  andhad  given  up  their  babies  to  be  adopted.  His  real  mother,  then,  could  have  been  an  ordinary  high-school  girl?  The  idea  made  her  uncomfortable,  as  though  he  had  suddenly  moved  closer  to  her.  &quot;I  believe  they  were  very  aware  of  it,  my  not  being  really  theirs,&quot;  [REDACTED]  Iverson  said,  again  looking  away  from  her.  &quot;Especially  when  I  messed  up  in  some  way,  like  choosing  Reed,  instead  of  Stan-  ford.  Then  graduate  school  ...&quot;  As  he  talked  on,  seem-  ing  to  search  for  new  words  for  the  feelings  engendered  in  him  by  his  adoptive  parents,  Dy-  lan  felt  herself  invol-  untarily  retreat,  No  one  had  ever  talked  to  her  in  quite  that  way,  and  she  was  uneasy.  She  looked  through  the  long  leaded  windows  to  the  waver-  ing  sunlight  beyond  ;  she  stared  at  the  dust-moted  shafts  of  light  in  the  dingy  room  where  they  were.  In  fact,  for  Dylan,  [REDACTED]'s  very  niceness  was  somehow  against  him;  his  kindness,  his  willingness  to  talk,  ran  against  the  rather  aus-  tere  grain  of  her  fan-  tasies.  Apparently  sensing  what  she  felt,  or  some  of  it,  [REDACTED]  stopped  short,  and  he  laughed  ina  self-conscious  way.  &quot;Well,  there  you  have  the  poor-adopted-kid  self-pity  trip  of  the  month,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;  'Poor,  Christ,  they've  drowned  me  in  money.&quot;  Feeling  that  this  last  was  not  real-  ly  addressed  to  her  (and  thinking  of  Flower's  phrase  about  the  birthmark,  &quot;drowned  at  birth&quot;),  Dylan  said  noth-  ing.  She  stared  at  his  hands,  which  were  strong  and  brown,  long-fingered,  and  she  suddenly,  sharply,  wished  that  he  would  touch  her.  Touch,  instead  of  all  this  awkward  talk.  ATER,  considering  that  conversa-  tion,  Dylan  found  herself  moved,  in  spite  of  herself.  How  terrible  to  feel  not  only  that  you  did  not  really  belong  with  your  parents  but  that  they  were  disappointed  in  you.  [REDACTED]  Iverson  hadn't  said  anything  about  it,  of  course,  butthey  must  have  minded  about  the  birthmark,  along  with  college  and  graduate  school.  She  and  Flower  were  so  clearly  mother  and  daughter-obviously,  irrev-  ocably  so;  her  green  eyes  were  Flow-  er's,  even  her  crooked  front  teeth.  Also,  Flower  had  always  thought  she  was  wonderful.  &quot;My  daughter,  Dy-  lan,&quot;  she  would  say,  in  her  strongest,  proudest  voice.  But  what  had  he  possibly  meant  about  &quot;drowned  in  money&quot;?  Was  he  really  rich,  or  had  that  been  a  joke?  His  car  was  an  old  VW  convertible,  and  his  button-down  shirts  were  frayed,  his  baggy  jackets  shabby.  Would  a  rich  person  drive  a  car  like  that,  or  wear  those  clothes?  Probably  not,  thought  Dylan;  on  the  other  hand,  he  did  not  seem  a  man  to  saythat  he  was  rich  if  he  was  not.  In  any  case,  Dylan  decided  that  she  was  giving  him  too  much  thought,  since  she  had  no  real  reason  to  think  that  he  cared  about  her.  Maybe  he  was  an  Iverson,  and  a  snob,  and  did  not  want  anything  to  do  with  a  waitress.  If  he  had  wanted  to  see  her,  he  could  have  suggested  dinner,  a  movie,  or  driv-  ing  down  to  Santa  Cruz  on  one  of  her  days  off.  Probably  she  would  have  said  yes,  and  on  the  way  home,  maybe  on  a  bluff  overlooking  the  sea,  he  could  have  " b"parked  the  car,  have  turned  to  her.  So  far  Dvlan  had  had  little  experi-  ence  of  ambiguity;  its  emerging  pres-  ence  made  her  both  impatient  and  con-  fused.  She  did  not  know  what  to  do  or  how  to  think  about  the  contradic-  tions  in  [REDACTED]  Iverson.  LTHOUGH  over  the  summer  Dylan  and  [REDACTED]  had  met  al-  most  every  day  in  the  library,  this  was  never  a  stated  arrangement,  and  if  ei-  ther  of  them  missed  aday,  as  they  each  sometimes  did,  nothing  was  said.  This  calculated  diffidence  seemed  to  suit  them;  they  were  like  children  who  could  not  quite  admit  to  seeking  each  other  out.  One  day,  when  Dylan  had  already  decided  that  he  could  not  come,  and  not  caring  really-she  was  too  tired  to  care,  what  with  extra  guests  and  heavier  trays-after  she  had  been  in  the  library  for  almost  half  an  hour  she  heard  running  steps,  his,  and  then  [REDACTED]  Iverson  burst  in,  quite  out  of  breath.  &quot;Oh  ...I'm  glad  you're  still  here,&quot;  he  got  out,  and  he  sat  down  heavily  beside  her.  &quot;I  had  some  terrific  news.&quot;  But  then  on  the  verge  of  tell-  ing  her,  he  stopped,  and  laughed,  and  said,  &quot;But  I'm  afraid  it  won'tsound  all  that  terrific  to  you.&quot;  Unhelpfully  she  looked  at  him.  &quot;The  Yale  Review,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;''They've  taken  an  article  I  sent  them.  I'm  really  pleased.&quot;  He  had  been  right,  in  that  the  Yale  Review  was  meaningless  to  Dylan,  but  his  sense  of  triumph  was  real  and  visi-  ble  to  her.  She  felt  his  success,  and  she  thought  just  then  that  he  looked  won-  derful.  SEPTEMBER,  once  Labor  Day  was  past,  was  much  clearer  and  warm-  er,  thesea  a  more  brilliant  blue,  than  during  the  summer.  Under  a  light,  fleece-clouded  sky  the  water  shim-  mered,  all  diamonds  and  gold,  and  the  rocky  cliffs  in  full  sunlight  were  as  pale  as  ivory,  Even  Dylan  admitted  to  herself  that  it  was  beautiful;  some-  times  she  felt  herself  penetrated  by  that  scenery,  her  consciousness  filled  with  it.  [REDACTED]  Iverson  was  leaving  on  the  fifteenth;  he  had  told  Dylan  so,  nam-  ing  the  day  as  they  sat  together  in  the  library,  And  then  he  said,  &quot;Would  it  be  O.K.  if  Icalled  you  at  home,  some-  time?&quot;  The  truth  was,  they  didn't  have  a  phone.  Flower  had  been  inso  much  trouble  with  the  phone  company  that  she  didn't  want  to  get  into  all  that  again.  And  so  now  Dylan  blushed, and  lied.  &quot;Well,  maybe  not.  My  mother's  really  strict.&quot;  He  blushed,  too,  the  birthmark  darkening.  &quot;Well,  I'll  have  to  come  back  to  see  you,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;But  will  you  still  be  here?&quot;  How  could  she  know,  especially  since  he  didn't  even  name  a  time  when  he  would  come?  With  a  careless  lack  of  tact  she  answered,  &quot;I  hope  not,&quot;  and  then  she  laughed.  Very  seriously  he  asked,  &quot;Well,  could  we  at  least  go  for  a  walk  or  something  before  I  go?  I  could  show  you  the  beach.&quot;  He  gave  a  small  laugh,  indicating  that  the  beach  was  really  nothing  much  to  see,  and  then  he  said,  &quot;Dylan,  I've  wanted  so  much  tosee  you,  I  care  so  much  for  you-but  here,  there  would  havebeen  ...  implica-  tions  ..  .  you  know  .  ..&quot;  She  didn't  know;  she  refused  to  understand  what  he  meant,  unless  he  was  confirming  her  old  suspicion  of  snobbery:  his  not  wanting  to  be  seen  with  a  waitress.  She  frowned  slightly,  and  said,  &quot;Of  course,&quot;  and  thought  that  she  would  not,  after  all,  see  him  again.  So  much  for  [REDACTED]  Iverson.  But  the  next  afternoon,  during  her  break,  in  the  brilliant  September  weath-  er  the  library  looked  to  her  unbearably  dingy,  and  all  those  magazines  were  so  old.  She  stepped  outside  through  the  door  at  the  end  of  the  porch,  and  there  was  Mr.  Iverson,  just  coming  out  through  another  door.  He  smiled  widely,  said,  &quot;Perfect!  We  can  just  make  it  before  the  tide.&quot;  Wanting  to  say  that  she  hadn't  meant  to  go  for  a  walk  with  him-she  was  just  getting  some  air,  and  her  shoes  werewrong,  canvas  sandals  Dylan  said  neither  of  those  things,  but  followed  along,  across  the  yellowing  grass,  toward  the  bluff.  He  led  her  toa  place  that  she  hadn't  known  was  there,  a  dip  in  the  head-  land,  from  which  the  beach  was  only  a  few  yards  down,  by  a  not-steep  nar-  row  path.  [REDACTED]  went  ahead,  first  turning  back  to  reach  for  her  hand,  which  she  gave  him.  Making  her  way  just  behind,  Dylan  was  more  aware  of  his  touch,  of  their  firmly  joined  warm  hands,  than  of  anything  else  in  the  day:  the  sunlight,  the  sea,  her  poorly  shod  feet.  But  as  they  reached  the  narrow  strip  of  land,  instead  of  turning  to  embrace  her,  although  he  still  held  her  hand,  [REDACTED]  cried  out,  &quot;See?  Isn't  it  fantastic?&quot;  A  small  wave  hit  Dylan's  left  foot,  soaking  the  fabric  of  her  sandal.  Un-  kissed,  she  stared  at  the  back  of  his  shirt  collar,  which  was  more  frayed  even  than  his  usual  shirts,  below  his  slightly  too  long  red-blond  hair.  Then  heturned  to  her;  he  picked  up  her  other  hand  from  her  side,  gaz-  ing  intently  down  into  her  face.  But  it  was  somehow  too  late.  Something  with-  in  her  had  turned  against  him,  whether  from  her  wet  foot  or  his  worn-out  collar,  or  sheer  faulty  timing,  so  that  when  he  said,  &quot;You're  so  lovely,  you  make  me  shy,&quot;  instead  of  being  moved,  as  she  might  have  been,  Dylan  thought  he  sounded  silly  (a  grown  man,  shy?  )  and  she  stepped  back  a  little,  away  from  him.  He  could  still  have  kissed  her,  easily  (she  later  thought),  but  he  did  not.  Instead,  he  reached  into  one  of  the  pockets  of  his  jeans,  fishing  about,  as  he  said,  &quot;...for  something  I  wanted  you  to  have.&quot;  Had  he  brought  hera  present,  some  " b"small  valuable  keepsake?  Prepared  to  relent,  Dylan  then  saw  that  he  had  not;  what  he  was  handing  her  was  a  cardboard  square,  a  card,  on  which  were  printed  his  name  and  telephone  number.  He  said,  &quot;I  just  got  these.  My  mother  sent  them.  She's  big  on  engraving.&quot;  He  grimaced,  as  Dylan  thought,  Oh,  your  mother  really  is  an  Iverson.  &quot;The  number's  my  new  bachelor  pad,&quot;  he  told  her.  &quot;It's  un-  listed.  Look,  I  really  wish  you'd  call  me.  Any  time.  Collect.  I'll  be  there.&quot;  He  looked  away  from  her,  for  a  mo-  ment  out  to  sea,  then  down  to  the  sand,  where  forthe  first  time  he  seemed  to  notice  her  wet  foot.  &quot;Oh  Lord!&quot;  he  exclaimed.  &quot;Will  you  have  to  change?  I  could  run  you  home  ..  .&quot;  Not  liking  the  fuss,  and  not  at  all  liking  the  attention  paid  to  those  par-  ticular  shoes  (cheap,  flimsy  ),  somewhat  coldly  Dylan  said  no;  the  guests  had  thinned  out  and  she  was  going  home  anyway  as  soon  as  the  tables  had  been  set  up.  &quot;Then  I  won't  see  you?&quot;  She  gave  him  her  widest,  most  false-  ly  shining  smile,  and  turned  and  start-  ed  up  the  path  ahead  of  him.  At  the  top  she  smiled  again,  and  was  about  to  turn  away  when  [REDACTED]  grasped  her  wrist  and  said,  with  a  startling,  unfamiliar  scowl,  &quot;Call  me,you  hear?  I  don't  want  to  lose  you.&quot;  HAT  Dylan  had  said  about  be-  ing  able  to  leave  after  setting  up  the  tables  was  true;  she  had  been  told  that  she  could  then  go  home,  which  she  did.,  The  only  problem,  of  course,  was  that  she  would  earn  less  money;  it  could  be  a  very  lean,  cold  winter.  Thinking  about  money,  and,  less  clear-  ly,  about  [REDACTED]  Iverson,  Dylan  was  not  quite  ready  forthe  wild-eyed  Flow-  er,  who  greeted  her  at  the  door:  &quot;We're  celebrating.  Congratulate  me!  I've  dumped  Zach.&quot;  But  Dylan  had  heard  this  before,  and  she  knew  the  shape  ofthe  evening  that  her  mother's  announcement  pre-  saged:  strong  triumphant  statements  along  with  a  festive  dinner,  more  and  more  wine,  then  tears.  Sinkingly  she  listened  as  her  mother  described  that  afternoon's  visit  from  Zach,  how  terri-  ble  he  wasand  how  firm  she,  Flower,  had  been,  how  final.  &quot;And  we're  cele-  brating  with  a  really  great  fish  soup,&quot; finished  Flower,  leading  Dylan  into  the  kitchen.  The  evening  did  go  more  or  less  as  Dylan  had  feared  and  imagined  that  it  would.  Ladling  out  the  rich  fish  soup,  Flower  told  Dylan  how  just  plain  fed  up  she  was  with  men,  and  she  repeated  a  line  that  she  had  recently  heard  and  liked:  &quot;A  woman  without  a  man  is  like  a  mushroom  without  a  bicycle.&quot;  Dylan  did  not  find  this  as  terrifically  funny  as  Flower  did,  but  she  dutifully  laughed.  A  little  later,  sopping  French  bread  into  the  liquid,  Flower  said,  &quot;Butmay-  be  it's  just  the  guys  I  pick?  I  really  seem  to  have  some  kind  of  instinct.&quot;  Flower  had  said  thatbefore,  and  Dylan  always,  if  silently,  agreed  with  her:  it  was  too  obvious  to  repeat.  And  then,  maybe  there  really  weren't  any  nice  men  around  anymore,  at  her  mother's  age?  Maybe  they  all  got  mean  and  terrible,  the  way  a  lot  of  women  got  fat?  Dylan  thought  then  of  Whit-  ney  Iverson,  who  was  only  about  ten  years  younger  than  Flower  was;  would  he,  too,  eventually  become  impossible,  cruel  and  unfaithful?  In  a  way  that  would  have  seemed  " b"alarmingly  telepathic  if  Dylan  had  not  been  used  to  having  her  thoughts  read  by  her  mother,  Flower  asked,  &quot;What  ever  happened  to  your  new  friend,  Mr.  Iverson?  Was  he  really  one  of  them?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know.  I  guess  so,&quot;  Dylan  muttered,  wishing  that  she  had  never  mentioned  [REDACTED]  to  her  mother.  Over  salad,  Flower  announced  that  she  was  going  on  a  diet.  &quot;''Tomorrow.  First  thing.  Don't  worry,  Pl  still  have  the  stuff  you  like  around  for  you,  but  from  now  on  no  more  carbohydrates  for  me.&quot;  At  least,  this  time,  she  didn't  cry.  T  some  hour  in  the  middle  of  the  night,  or  early  morning,  Dylan  woke  up-a  thing  she  rarely  did.  Her  ears  and  her  mind  were  full  of  the  distant  sound  of  the  sea,  and  she  could  see  it  as  it  had  been  in  the  afternoon,  vastly  glittering,  when  she  had  been  preoccupied  with  her  wet  shoe,  with  [REDACTED]'s  not  kissing  her.  And  she  felt  a  sudden  closeness  to  him;  sudden-  ly  she  understood  what  he  had  not  quite  said.  By  &quot;implications&quot;  he  had  meant  that  the  time  and  place  were  wrong  for  them.  He  was  shy  and  just  then  not  especially  happy,  what  with  his  divorce  and  all,  but  he  truly  cared  about  her.  If  he  had  felt  less  he  proba-  bly  would  have  kissed  her,  in  the  care-  less,  meaningless  way  of  a  man  on  vacation  kissing  a  pretty  waitress  and  then  going  back  to  his  own  real  life.  [REDACTED]  was  that  rarity  her  mother  despaired  of  finding:  a  truly  nice  man.  On  her  way  back  to  sleep  Dylan  imagined  calling  him.  She  could  go  up  to  see  him  on  the  bus,  or  he  could  come  down,  and  they  could  go  out  together,  nothing  to  do  with  the  Lodge.  Could  talk,  be  alone.  OWEVER,  Dylan  woke  up  the  next  morning  in  quite  another  mood.  She  felt  wonderful,  her  own  person,  needing  no  one,  certainly  not  a  man  who  had  not  bothered,  really,  to  claim  her.  Looking  in  the  mirror,  she  saw  herself  as  more  than  pretty,  as  almost  beautiful;  it  was  one  of  her  very  good  days.  Flower,  too,  at  breakfast  seemed  cheerful,  not  hung  over.  Maybe  there  was  something  in  the  air?  Passing  buttered  English  muffins  to  Dylan,  Flower  took  none,  although  she  loved  them,  &quot;Tomato  juice  and  eggs  and  black  coffee,  from  here  on  in,&quot;  she  said.  She  did  not  take  any  pills.  Later,  walking  toward  the  Lodge,  Dylan  felt  lighthearted,  energetic.  And  how  beautiful  everything  was!  (Whit-  ney  Iverson  had  been  right.)  'The  sloping  meadows,  the  pale  clear  sky,  the  chalky  cliffs,  the  diamond-shining  sea  were  all  marvellous.  She  had  a  strong  presentiment  of  luck;  some  good  fortune  would  come  to  her  at  last.  At  the  sound  ofa  car  behind  her  she  moved  out  of  the  way,  turning  then  to  look.  She  had  had  for  a  mo-  ment  the  crazy  thought  that  it  could  be  [REDACTED]  coming  back  for  her,  but  of  course  it  was  not.  It  was  a  new  gray  Porsche,  going  slowly,  looking  for  something.  Walking  a  little  faster,  Dylan  began  to  adjust  her  smile. "