 b"&amp;  A  \xc2\xbb  Would  you  like  your  chair  e  moved  closer?  Would  you  like  a  little  pillow?  Would  you  like  to  see  my  film  again?  Q:  I'm  very  comfortable.  With  you.  With  the  film.  With  the  special  chair.  I  have  been  comfortable  right  from  the  start.  Almost  from  the  start.I  was  comfortable  with  my  hope  to  meet  you.  I  was  comfortable  with  your  name  in  my  datebook.  I  was  comfortable  when  we  drove  to  the  [REDACTED].  A:  Shall  we  scan  the  promotional  literature?  Would  you  like  to  snap  my  picture?  Q:  You  took  me  out  in  your  car.  Through  the  hills,  along  those  wind-  ing  roads  where  the  baby  stars  live,  to  the  [REDACTED],  The  drive-so  like  you,  Sammy.  The  man  of  myth.  The  man  who  stood  outside  thebig  hotels  dressed  in  velvet  with  his  guitar  and  that  smile,  just  a  wreath  of  insight  on  his  lips  (which  opened  in  such  a  way,  to  such  an  extent,  that  even  the  police  took  notice)-you  like  to  drive  in  the  Val-  ley.  Enfolding  yourself  in  a  sense  of  American  nowhere.  An  arrangement  of  silence,  perhaps,  so  your  thoughts  can  have  their  outline.  Your  feet  are  very  large.  It  was  practically  the  first  thing  I  noticed.  From  years  on  the  road  your  feet  have  bloomed-have  absorbed  some  mineral  from  the  pavement  and  spread  to  an  enormous  width.  I  wanted  to  see  your  feet  up  close,  without  the  shoes,  but  I  was  too  shy  to  ask.  In  the  [REDACTED],  the  air  seemed  to  hang  just  above  the  second  story.  Two-story  commercial  entities  supporting  the  low  sky,  We  have  learned  to  respect  com-  mercial  things,  the  things  we  have  come  to  perceive  as  artifacts.  They  support  the  low  [REDACTED]  sky!  The  laundromats,  where  the  people  con-  verge  for  an  exchange  of  anxious  glances  within  the  context  of  homely  work;  the  shops  with  a  religious  aim;  the  machines  dispensing  drinks.  And  the  little  gaps  where  a  shop  has  gone  away,  been  erased.  You  know  these  things  are  the  great  American  things'  You  stopped  the  car  and  got  out.  You  seemed  not  to  notice  me.  That  way  it  was  much  more  real,  had  much  more  impact.  You  went  into  asmall  shop  that  turned  out  to  be  an  amuse-  ment  center-one  ofthe  artifacts  we  have  come  to  respect.  There  were  doz-ens  of  pinball  machines  lined  against  a  wall.  The  wall  itself  was  fragile,  made  of  paper  pressed  together  by  a  steaming  process.  The  layers  of  wall  buckle,  then  come  free,  like  petals  from  a  bud,  be-  cause  the  process  is  unreliable.  A  last-  ing  adhesion  is  not  sought.  The  layers  of  paper,  springing  apart,  present  a  surface  in  tiers,  like  a  cross-section  of  skin.  Without  a  word,  you  left.  I  was  alone  in  the  amusement  center,  which  I  had  not  expected.  For  a  while  I  didn't  move,  because  I  thought  you  might  want  me  to  keep  still.  Then  I  intended  to  move,  saw  a  moving  figure  that  was  the  figure  of  my  intention  stride  away,  down  a  line  of  pinball  machines  (touching  a  finger  to  the  glass  case  of  each  in  sequence  to  preserve  an  atti-  tude  of  interest,  which  is  my  attitude  at  times),  and  out  the  door,.  But  I  did  not  move.  I  kept  still,  in  case  you  want-  ed  me  to.  My  comfort  was  in  observa-  tion  ofthe  line  of  pinball  machines,  which  comprised  many  machines  but  only  one  game,  the  game  called  &quot;Re-  cent  Scores,&quot;  after  your  great  song.  I  located  my  attitude  of  interest  and  no-  ticed  it  peel  away,  revealing  you.  You  are  large.  On  the  game  boards  under  the  glass  your  head  is  large.  Your  hair  curls  down  to  a  special  lane  where  it  is  possible  to  trap  a  ball.  You  hold  a  gui-  tar,  of  course,  and  just  above  the  guitar  there  are  five  drop  targets.  Around  the  targets  float  three  feminine  figures,  dis-  guised  for  legal  purposes  (because  you  don't  want  to  cut  them  in  on  the  royal-  ties)  but  still  recognizable  as  Star  Mur-  ley,  Sally  Molloy,  and  Lilly  Pol,  the  women  of  your  songs.  Just  below  the  five  drop  targets  there  is  another  drop  target,  placed  in  such  a  way  that  it  is  very  difficult  to  hit,  given  the  arc  de-  scribed  by  the  flippers.  The  single  drop  target  lights  the  double-bonus  feature  and  is  surrounded  by  a  beautiful  repre-  sentation  of  Dearie,  your  young  daugh-  ter  by  Sally  Molloy.  I  waited  a  long  time  for  you  to  come  back,  but  you  didn't  come.  After  a  while  an  employee  of  the  amusement  center  brought  me  a  cool  drink,  and  then  a  bowl  of  cereal.  I  stayed  the  night.  It  is  embarrassing  to  wait  for  you,  but  it  is  a  little  exciting,  too.  You  are  elusive-everyone  knows  that.  Sometimes  you  agree  to  an  appoint-  ment.  I  make  the  appointment  with  your  personal  manager-an  ex-convict  who  got  out  of  prison  because  you  wrote  a  song  about  him,  who  is  seen  with  two  young  girls,  one  black  and  one  white,  always,  who  earns  more  than  any  politician-and  I  come  to  the  office  of  this  man  at  a  certain  hour,  and  you  don't  show  up.  I  wait  and  " b"wait  and  wait  with  your  personal  manager.  I  notice  that  there  are  no  letters  or  papers  on  his  desk,  no  writing  of  any  kind.  Then  it  gets  embarrassing  in  a  way  that  is  exciting,  because  of  the  yielding  quality,  and  then  it  gets  so  em-  barrassing  that  I  have  to  go  home.  I  went  home.  I  lis-  tened  to  your  songs.  Sometimes  when  you  don't  show  up  and  I  have  to  go  home,  I  lis-  ten  to  your  songs  so  much  it  makes  me  sweat.  I  can  remember  with  perfect  clarity  the  first  time  I  heard  you  sing.  I  was  nobody.  I  was  just  a  nothing.  When  I  think  of  the  clothes  I  used  to  wear,  and  the  eyeglasses  gray  plastic  as  thick  as  glue  around  the  huge  lenses,  weighing  down  on  my  small  nose-I  just  laugh  and  laugh!  The  song  was  &quot;See  Pain.&quot;  Of  course,  by  then  you  had  al-  ready  released  two  albums.  How  was  I  to  know,  in  the  place  where  I  was?  &quot;See  Pain&quot;  was  from  the  &quot;Tethered&quot;  album.  The  cover  of  that  album-you,  so  young,  your  head  bent,  hair  cut  short,  that  smile  directed  to  the  pave-  ment  where  your  feet  were  beginning  to  spread  (from  days  on  the  road,  [REDACTED]  to  Carmine  Alley  to  Chica-  go,  where  the  Negro  singers  were,  and  back)-that  picture  of  you  had  been  seen  andhad  made  its  mark,  but  I  didn't  know.  Sometimes  when  you  want  to  talk  to  somebody,  you  send  a  convict-one  of  the  convicts  you  set  free  with  your  songs,  who  are  in  your  employ,  who  go  on  tour,  who  earn  more  money  than  any  politician.  Sometimes  you  send  a  girlfriend-an  old  girlfriend,  one  of  the  minor  girlfriends,  not  one  from  the  songs.  These  girls  hit  the  lounges  where  the  writers  go-desperate  writ-  ers  too  lacking  in  confidence  to  call  your  personal  manager.  They  are  for-  ward,  these  girls.  They  keep  quarters  in  theold  bungalow  colonies,  the  ones  built  in  the  twenties.  At  times,  a  whole  bungalow  colony  is  filled  with  these  girls,  each  with  a  writer,  giving  you  your  choice.  Sometimes,  toward  dawn,  there  is  the  sound  of  your  footfall  from  window  to  window.  Then,  as  morn-ing  comes,  you  break  into  a  bungalow  and  give  an  interview.  Gerry  Trinc  got  the  story  on  the  &quot;Nest  Lease&quot;  tapes  that  way.  Poor  Trinc,  so  sad  toward  the  end-his  ears  shrivelled  and  dead,  his  eyes  blinded  by  glare,  all  his  senses  diminished  from  years  at  thebig  halls.  You  sent  a  girl  to  get  Trinc  and  you  gave  him  the  story,  when  [REDACTED]  Rax  and  so  many  others  were  keeping  still  in  the  office  of  your  personal  manager.  The  whole  story-the  legendary  ses-  sions  you  made  in  a  secret  basement  space  with  just  a  pickup  band,  those  blond  men  who  had  never  come  in  from  the  road,  who  just  toured  and  toured,  absorbing  the  minerals  from  the  pavement,  setting  up  in  abandoned  gas  stations,  small  clothing  stores,  any-  where  out  of  sight-that  story,  of  se-  cret  music  made  by  secret  men,  you  gave  to  Trinc.  Appeared  at  the  door  and  told  it  to  him  straight.  Sally  Molloy  came  to  my  door.  As  simple  as  that.  Sally  has  lost  a  lot  of  weight.  All  the  long  hair  that  you  wrote  about  is  gone.  Her  hair  is  done  in  a  little  flip  now,  which  is  much  too  cheerful.  I  went  with  her,  of  course.  Sally  said,  &quot;The  feeling  now  is  that  it's  ridiculous  to  talk  about  the  form  the  film  has  taken.  Now  the  feeling  is  that  it  was  a  booming  energy  going  in  many  directions,.  We've  treat-  ed  it  like  afine  horse.  Given  it  a  pace.  Sammy  says  the  film  is  like  that.&quot;  We  drove  down  the  boulevard  past  the  bungalow  colonies,  where  I  knew  there  were  other  writers  with  other  girls.  Sally  drove  me  to  your  big  metal  house  and  showed  me  through  the  rooms.  THE  first  room  resembled  the  up-  per  Middle  West-vast  and  very  lonely,  from  that  time  in  your  life.  Sally  said,  &quot;There  was  a  feeling  that  there  should  be  a  space  to  represent  the  space  that  Sammy  left.  We  had  [REDACTED]  Rax  working  on  the  script  for  a  while,  but  then  we  had  to  let  him  go,  because  there  was  a  feeling  thata  script  was  too  much  like  punctuation.  I  drove  him  to  the  station.  He  cried  and  cried,  but  he  had  to  go.  But  he  had  this  idea  that  there  should  be  a  space  to  represent  the  space  that  Sammy  left,  and  Sammy  kept  that  idea  in.&quot;  I  no-  ticed  a  sign  in  a  frame-a  hand-carved  frame,  like  little  logs  notched  together.  The  sign  listed  the  few  objects  in  the  vast  room,  which  were  original  objects  from  your  early  life,  including  the  wrappers  you  put  on  your  schoolbooks  to  keep  them  fresh.  &quot;This  room  was  [REDACTED]'s  dream  and  [REDACTED]'s  comfort  before  he  had  to  leave,&quot;  said  Sally  Molloy,  &quot;[REDACTED]  used  " b"to  come  here  for  hours  and  stand  completely  still,  just  like  he  was  part  of  the  landscape.  Not  moving  at  all,  in  case  Sam-  my  wanted  it  that  way.  It  was  done  for  love.&quot;  I  stood  close  to  Sally,  and  she  let  me  stand  close  to  her  for  a  minute  but  then  she  moved  away.  &quot;You  can  stand  close  to  me  if  you  want,  but  it  won't  mean  a  thing,&quot;  she  said.  Sally  took  me  into  the  room  that  is  a  reconstruction  ofthe  attic  where  you  lived  in  Car-  mine  Alley,  where  you  slept  on  the  floor  with  your  head  in  the  crook  of  your  arm.  There  was  a  typed  description  of  the  room  in  a  log  frame,  and  I  read  it,  and  then  there  was  a  scream,  like  the  sound  of  someone  in  enormous  pain.  It  was  hard  to  assess  the  quality  of  the  pain.  Recently,  a  certain  shrill  shout  has  become  almost  common.  But  this  sound  was  different-older.  Not  like  the  sound  the  baby  stars  make  when  they  are  grabbed  from  behind  by  the  terrorists,  not  like  the  sound  the  baby  stars  make  when  their  film  deals  fall  through,  not  like  the  sound  of  squirming  pain  the  baby  stars  make  when  their  series  are  cancelled-but  older.  Sally  Molloy  guided  me  toward  the  sound.  The  sound  had  been  made  by  Willy  Hoem,  of  course.  We  saw  him  in  his  room.  Attached  to  the  most  expensive  life-support  devices,  kept  alive  at  outrageous  expense  in  a  room  contrived  to  resemble  the  more  simple  medical  facility  where  you  first  saw  him,  that  great  man  continued  to  scream.  Then  suddenly  he  fell  quiet.  I  turned  around  and  Sally  Molloy  was  gone.  I  kept  still.  Willy  made  a  further  noise.  I  wondered  if  he  was  trying  to  sing-to  sing  &quot;Me  and  Misericordia,&quot;  for  instance,  which  was  such  a  great  influence  on  you,  or  &quot;Rooming,&quot;  or  No  Land,  None,&quot;  those  great  songs  of  work  and  effort.  I  unhooked  the  velvet  rope  in  front  of  Willy's  bed  and  moved  closer.  It  was  very  hard  to  find  a  musical  reference  point  for  the  sounds  Willy  was  making.  Then  I  went  from  room  to  room  without  guidance.  There  were  rooms  for  each  of  your  albums,  rooms  for  each  of  your  women.  Some  of  your  women  were  in  their  rooms.  The  rooms  for  the  more  important  women  had  signs  in  log  frames  listing  the  ref-  erences  to  them  in  your  songs  if  your  songs  referred  to  them,  listing  other  pertinent  information  if  their  signifi-  cance  to  you  was  extramusical.  I  found  Sally  Molloy  in  her  room,  with  two  signs-one  musical  in  thrust,  the  other  general.  The  room  was  like  a  room  in  one  of  the  big  hotels  from  the  days  of  rage,  when  you  stood  with  Sally  and  Forman  Jurl  and  Willy  Hoem  outside  thebig  hotels-all  dressed  in  velvet,  with  that  smile  on  your  faces,  just  that  wreath  of  insight  on  your  lips-waiting  for  the  police  to  bring  their  big  thumbs  through  your  eyes.  I  noticed  a  pinball  machine  in  the  room-not  a  &quot;Recent  Scores,&quot;  which  is  the  machine  you  license  now,  but  a  &quot;Keep  Clear,&quot;  one  of  the  old  ones  you  have  had  withdrawn  from  circulation,  carted  away,  and  destroyed.  &quot;Keep  Clear&quot;  was  the  anthem  of  a  generation,  and  the  &quot;Keep  Clear&quot;  machine  was  the  machine  of  the  days  of  rage-the  first  machine  you  authorized  to  be  manu-  factured  in  your  name.  This  one  was  in  bad  repair,  but  I  could  see  the  ter-  rific  quality:  the  double  thickness  of  rubber  on  the  flippers,  the  vivid  colors  on  the  game  board,  the  extra  features,  like  the  Bonus  Whirl.  I  tried  to  play  the  &quot;Keep  Clear,&quot;  but  it  tilted  right  away.  I  tried  to  stand  next  to  Sally  Molloy,  but  I  saw  that  it  didn't  mean  a  thing.  &quot;This  room  is  an  accurate  replica  of  one  of  the  rooms  in  one  of  the  big  hotels,&quot;  Sally  said  mechanically.  &quot;It  may  interest  you  to  know  that  it  was  in  a  room  just  likethis  that  Sammy  told  me  to  leave,  told  me  we  couldn't  stay  together,  told  me  I  couldn't  stay  withhim,  told  me  that  I  didn't  have  any  talent,  not  really.  I  was  a  singer  myself,  you  know,  and  a  poet,&quot;  Sally  said.  A.  Is  that  as  far  as  you've  got-  *  ten?  Q:  Well,  almost  as  far  as  I've  got-  ten.  A:  And  you're  a  little  nervous  now?  Q:  No!  Not  nervous!  A:  So  you  wouldn't  mind  if  we  got  to  the  film?  If  we  began  to  talk  about  the  film?  Q:  Your  film  is  about  identity,  of  course.  That  shifting  of  masks.  When  you  sing  &quot;Token  Bitch&quot;  as  Elia  on-  stage.  In  the  mask,.  When  you  whisper,  over  and  over,  &quot;Beyond  that!&quot;  When  you  enter  that  sharp  intersection  be-  tween  questions  of  personal  identity,  which  the  songs  bring  up  literally,  and  questions  of  who  we  were  then,  which  your  very  presence  brings  up.  A:  But  perhaps  it  seemed  insuffi-  ciently  filmic?  A  little  self-indulgent?  Q:  When  you  appear  as  Lamb,  we  can  see  that  the  tension  between  in-  tersection  and  juxtaposition  is  the  gen-  erational  force  that  produced  the  songs  " b"-the  songs  that,  of  course,  we  already  know:  The  shoes  Stiff  with  lies,  I  turned  in  with  my  old  friend,  my  old  friend.  The  songs  that  we  ha  d  seen  as  inter-  section  be  tween  you  and  u  s  but  had  yet  to  see  as  juxtaposition  bet  ween  you  an  d  you  .  A:  Is  that  what  you  get  out  of  it?  Q:  Well,  not  all  I  get  o  ut  of  it.  A:  I  wonder  if  yo  u  could  tell  me  what  else.  It's  the  most  natural  thing  in  the  world  not  to  get  the  point  the  first  few  times.  Q:  The  girl  waiting  thr  ough  the  dawn,  outside  the  big  hotel,  with  a  pie  ce  of  velvet.  The  motion  a  way  from  the  cheap  materials,  like  I  grew  up  with.  Away  from  the  read  y-m  ade,  which  was  all  the  re  was  at  one  point.  A:  Could  you  tell  m  e  what  else?  Q:  The  pleasure  of  being  with  you.  Your  birth  and  growth  and  so  on.  &quot;Just  like  your/Justice&quot;  is  about  be-  ing  born,  of  course.  &quot;I  can't  keep  you  .  .  .  guilty/Or  not&quot;  -your  big  head  being  born.  A:  Did  you  by  any  remote  chance     hear  me  say  &quot;T  win  vision,  twin  vision,  twin  vision/T'win  vision,  twin  vision,  twin  vision,  twin  vision&quot;?  Q:  Certain  rabbis  feel  that  there  are  four  kinds  of  vision.  Single  vision,  as  when  Elia  sings  &quot;Mangled  Me&quot;  in  the  lobby.  The  v  ision  of  the  double  and  the  self,  as  when  Elia  and  Lamb  ap-  pear  together.  The  vision  of  the  triple  sense,  which  I  forget  just  h  ow  it  goes.  An  d  then  the  fourth  vison-the  dou-  b  le  doubled-as  in  &quot;t  win  vision.&quot;  A:  I  don't  feel  that  you've  gone  very  deep.  Do  you  fee  l  you  ha  ve?  Q:  Som  etim  es  I  stop  short.  Some-  times  I  leave  a  small  portion  for  you.  For  the  extra  p  ower  in  you  .  A:  All  that  is  in  the  promotional  lit-erature.  Have  you  had  time  to  examine  the  promotional  liter  atur  e?  Q:  Well,  no.  We've  been  watching  the  film  pretty  steadily.  A:  Too  much?  Have  we  spent  too  much  tim  e  watching  the  f  ilm?  Q:  Oh,  no!  A:  You  don't  think  it's  too  long?  Some  of  the  distributors  have  said  it's  too  long.  They  said  there  is  a  big  prob-lem  and  I  might  have  to  four-wall  it.  Take  it  to  stupid  little  towns,  one  by  one.  Repellent.  I  planned  the  most  beautiful  film.  I  planned  the  most  beautiful  promotional  literature.  Total  color.  Four-color  promotional  litera-ture.  Every  nuance  of  red.  You  saw  what  they  gave  me.  You  call  that  a  beautiful  red?  Q:  I  was  a  nothing.  Just  a  nobody.  In  a  state  school.  Nasty  glazed  brick.  Those  small-paned  windows  set  too  high  up  in  the  wall.  I  ha  d  a  nobody  for  a  girlfriend.  That  stringy  hair  you  can't  do  anything  with,  Oh  ,  you  can  w  ash  it,  all  right,  but  it  never  has  any  full-  ness  or  shine.  A:  This  big  room.  I  wonder  if  it  isn't  too  metallic.  I  wonder  if  there  isn't  going  to  be  an  emphasis  o  n  fa  bric  I  ought  to  pick  up  on.  Are  yo  u  sure  you're  comfortable  her  e?  Q:  It's  a  little  tight.  Maybe  a  little  too  tight.  Maybe  I  shouldn't  be  this  rigid.  W  h  at  are  you  doing?  A:  I'm  going  to  run  it  again. "