 b"ALBERT  once  knew  a  woman  who  designed  women's  gloves.  Pa-  per  cutouts  of  hands-left  or  right,  he  couldn't  tell  which;  either  sufficed-were  strewn  throughout  her  apartment.  At  another  time,  he  went  with  a  woman  who  did  illustrations  for  advertisements  of  women's  shoes.  Her  apartment  was  littered  with  shoes-one  of  a  kind,  left  or  right;  she  had  no  need  for  pairs  While  Albert  was  married,  the  apartment  in  which  he  and  [REDACTED]  lived  was  awash  with  tears.  Like  subatomic  particle  whose  existence  is  confirmed  by  photographs  of  their  tracks,  the  fugitive  existence  of  these  tears  was  often  made  evident  to  Albert  only  by  the  rapidly  drying  streaks  on  his  wife's  cheeks.  The  tears,  he  noted,  had  trickled  from  her  left  eye  as  well  as  her  right.  &quot;Being  mar-  ried  to  you,&quot;  she  once  told  him,  &quot;you  need  both  barrels.&quot;  Albert  and  [REDACTED]  had  been  separated  for  three  years.  During  the  first  two,  her  tears  had  dried  up,the  transient  cause,  himself,  having  been  removed,  although  not  very  far.  (When  she  learned  that  Barney,  her  son,  Albert's  step-  son,  had  drowned  a  month  after  his  twen-  tieth  birthday,  they  had  flowed  anew,  soaking  her  pillow,  splattering  on  her  blueberries,  turn-  ingher  bathwater  brack-  ish.)  Indeed,  separation  was  a  particularly  apt  word  to  describe  their  situation:  Albert  lived  on  the  third,  and  top,  floor  of  a  Federal  house  in  Greenwich  Village;  [REDACTED]  lived  in  the  garden  apartment.  Their  land-  lord  occupied  the  parlor  and  second  floors.  From  his  bedroom  window  Albert  could  look  down  into  the  gar-  den,  which  he  had  paid  a  young  man  who  hoped  to  serve  mankind  by  combining  ecology  with  the  law  to  do  over,  as  [REDACTED]'s  forty-eighth-  birthday  present.  This  humanitarian  cut  back  the  privet  and  planted  hosta  beneath  it,  up-  rooted  a  large  ailanthus  in  favor  of  acrab  apple,  and  put  in  a  bed  of  an-  nuals,  a  border  of  day  lilies,  a  rose-  bush  that  never  leafed,  much  less  bud-  ded,  and,  at  [REDACTED]'s  insistence,  several  tomato  plants.  He  told  her  these  were  going  to  be  very  iffy,  because  the  gar-  den  got  so  little  sun,  but  [REDACTED],  who  yearned  for  her  rustic  upbringing,  was  adamant.  As  predicted,  the  tomato  plants  fared  poorly;  further,  they  were  ravaged  by  squirrels.  Skippy  Mountjoy,  [REDACTED]'s  first  husband,  who  came  by  to  work  on  his  sonnet  sequence  under  the  privet,  enclosed  the  plants  with  chicken  wire,  but  the  squirrels  swarmed  up  and  over  the  netting.  He  then  laid  a  heavy  cardboard  poster  of  Diirer's  &quot;Feast  of  the  Rose  Garlands&quot;  on  top  of  the  wire  enclosure.  This  kept  the  squirrels  out  but  plunged  the  plants  into  near-total  darkness.  As  far  as  Albert  could  tell,  the  poster  had  never  served  a  decorative  purpose.  [REDACTED]  told  him  that  when  Barney  was  an  infant  it  had  been  used  as  a  gate  to  keep  him  from  tumbling  downstairs.  While  Albert  was  married  to  [REDACTED],  they  had  penned  in  Josh  and  Jake,  the  dachshunds  they  had  bought  for  Barney  and  his  sister,  Emily,  with  it.  Now,  when  Albert  gazed  out  his  bed-  room  window,  what  caught  his  eye  was  this  weather-beaten  Rosenmkranzbild,  resplendent  with  the  roses  the  nearby  bush  never  produced.  The  poster  was  askew,  Skippy  not  having  aligned  it  to  be  viewed  from  Albert's  vantage.  Albert  told  [REDACTED]  on  the  phone  one  day,  &quot;If  that  thing's  going  to  hit  me  in  the  eye  every  morning  when  I  open  the  curtains,  the  least  you  can  do  is  straighten  it  out.&quot;  &quot;'That's  just  like  you,&quot;  she  said.  'You're  not  satisfied  having  the  world  spread  out  at  your  feet,  it  has  to  be  at  right  angles.&quot;  Notwithstanding,  Albert  shortly  saw  [REDACTED]  go  into  the  garden.  &quot;To  the  left!&quot;  he  shouted  out  the  window.  &quot;A  little  more.  More.  Too  much.  Back  to  the  right.  Hold  it!&quot;  Albert  reflected  that  he  and  [REDACTED]  were  communicating  at  longer  and  longer  range.  While  a  few  years  ago  they  were  murmuring  in  one  another's  ears,  now  they  spoke  on  the  phone,  shouted  out  windows,  left  notes  for  each  other  un-  der  the  carpet  in  Unit  40  of  the  Sun  'n  Sea  Motel  on  Key  Biscayne.  Albert  and  [REDACTED]  had  honey-  mooned  there  fifteen  years  before  and  had  often  gone  back  since;  now,  of  course,  they  went  to  [REDACTED]  sep-  arately,  but  they  clung  to  their  old  unit.  When  neither  of  them  was  there,  Albert  envisioned  solitary  middle-aged  men  like  himself  doing  pushups  on  the  carpet,  spent  lov-  ers  outflung  upon  it  as  though  they  had  fallen  from  great  heights,  the  maids  raking  it  to  make  the  nap  stand  up,  all  un-  aware  of  the  tender  mes-  sages  beneath  them,  and  he  was  put  in  mind  of  the  numberless  genera-  tions  of  Anatolian  herds-  men  and  charcoal  burn-  ers  who  had  gone  about  their  business  ignorant  of  the  poems,  correspond-  ence,  and  bills  of  lad-  ing  impressed  into  clay  tablets  that  had  lain  buried  for  millennia  un-  der  their  feet.  " b"At  times,  Albert  stood  by  his  open  window  at  night,  singing  &quot;Da-da-da.&quot;  (Accord-  ing  to  the  Human  [REDACTED],  whom  he  had  been  seeing  since  being  separated  from  [REDACTED],  when  Jewish  people  didn't  know  the  words  to  songs  they  went  &quot;da-da,&quot;  while  Gentiles  went  &quot;la-la.&quot;  She  was  given  to  this  kind  of  generalization.  [REDACTED]  was  a  generalizer,  too,  although  of  a  different  sort;  e.g.,  &quot;The  reason  you  don't  have  any  friends  is  that  you  don't  really  like  people.  You  just  like  those  parts  of  them  that  suit  your  purposes.  Which  is  why  all  of  us  who  became  in-  volved  with  you  are  maimed.&quot;  Why  is  it,  thought  Albert,  that  I,  who  never  draw  infer-  ences,  invariably  wind  up  in  the  dark  with  my  arms  around  women  who  make  generaliza-  tions?  )  Sometimes,  as  Albert  stood  and  sang,  the  dark  garden  seemed  to  him  to  be  flood-  ed,  with  just  the  topmost  branches  of  the  privet  project-  ing  from  the  water,  and  the  blistered  poster  now  a  raft  upon  which  a  desperate  swim-  mer  might  tryto  haul  himself,  only  to  find  it  wouldn't  support  the  weight  of  a  child.  A  notion  came  to  him:  except  for  those  Bibles  in  which  bullets  become  embedded,  works  of  art  don't  save  lives.  In  the  morning,  as  Albert  looked  down  into  the  garden,  while  waiting  for  [REDACTED]  to  answer  the  phone,  it  often  seemed  to  have  dwindled  overnight,  withered,  as  though  time  had  suddenly  tightened  its  grip,  or  that  he  was  view-  ing  it  from  higher  up  than  the  third  story,  from  that  fancied  height  which  the  imagined  lovers  he  had  envisioned  on  the  motel  carpet  had  cast  them-  selves.  &quot;Elite,&quot;  Albert  would  say  when  [REDACTED]  picked  up  the  receiver.  This  was  short  for  Elite  Dog-Walking  Service  and  meant  that  he  was  coming  down-  stairs  to  walk  Josh  (Jake  had  been  given  away  years  ago).  Similarly,  Skippy  Mountjoy  was  the  Acme  Dog-  Walking  Service,  or  Acme,  it  being  his  pleasure  to  take  Josh  out  between  abed  and  cded.  One  autumn  morning,  when  Albert  arrived  to  walk  Josh,  he  became  aware  ofa  pungent,  almost  acrid  odor  he  couldn't  identify.  Although  not  thatof  burning  leaves,  it  correspondingly  stirred  the  emotions,  evoking  pathetic  feelings  and  a  sense  of  impermanence-  what  the  Japanese  call  mono  no  aware,  the  pity  of  things.  \xc2\xab&quot;What's  cooking?&quot;  Albert  asked  [REDACTED].  &quot;Credit  cards,&quot;  she  said  from  the  bathroom.  Albert  entered.  She  was  sitting  in  the  tub,  in  several  inches  of  soapy  water,  dreamily  shaving  her  legs;  Josh  was  curled  on  the  bathmat.  She  was  rosy,  and  the  water  had  a  bluishtinge,  the  blue  of  infants'  veins,  and  gently  heaved  withher  motions.  Vapor  had  condensed  on  the  medicine-cabinet  mirror,  so  that  he  couldn't  find  his  re-  flection.  The  airport  was  closed  in,  the  plane  was  in  aholding  pattern,  and  he  was  unable  to  see  out  the  bleary  window,  During  the  last  years  of  their  marriage,  this  had  seemed  an  appropri-  ate  metaphor,  and,  ina  sense,  he  was  still  waiting  for  permission  to  land.  Now  the  amplitude  of  gentle  curves-  [REDACTED]  bending  to  her  shins,  Josh  on  the  bathmat,  the  bell  graph  of  his  life-  nearly  brought  him  to  tears.  &quot;They're  ashes,&quot;  [REDACTED]  said.  Ah!  He  recalled  the  four  of  them  crowded  about  the  stove,  Barney  and Emily  taking  turns  holding  an  expired  Master  Charge  in  the  flame,  raptly  watching  it  blacken,  melt,  blister,  van-  ish.  Families  have  these  rites  or  cere-  monies.  Another  of  theirs  had  been  the  watering  of  the  fern:  the  procession  to  the  bathroom  to  &quot;The  [REDACTED]  Post&quot;  march  (&quot;la-la&quot;'s  from  [REDACTED],  Emily,  and  Barney;  &quot;da-da''s  from  Albert)  ;  the  lowering  ofthe  fern  into  the  tub  (all  hum  &quot;Taps&quot;);  and  the  spraying.  This  last  had  been  enhanced  by  manipulating  the  plastic  sprayer  so  that  it  emitted  an  uncannily  human  moan,  which  sent  the  children  into  peals  of  laughter.  &quot;I'm  consolidating  my  position,&quot;  [REDACTED]  said.  &quot;What?&quot;  He  wasn't  paying  atten-  tion.  Despite  their  ministrations,  the  fern  hadn't  flourished.  Like  tea  leaves  in  the  bottom  of  a  cup,  adumbrating  pinnules  littered  the  tub.  Kneeling  be-  fore  it  after  the  others  had  borne  the  fern  away,  Albert  devotedly  gathered  them  up,  and,  as  his  father  would  say,  disposed  of  them.  &quot;They  were  too  much  of  a  tempta-  tion,&quot;  [REDACTED]  was  saying.  &quot;I  can't  afford  them  anymore.  American  Ex-  press,  Visa,  Master  Charge-I  con-  " b"signed  them  to  the  flames,  as  your  father  would  say,  How  is  your  father,  by  the  way?  Is  he  still  beingoracu-  lar?&quot;  &quot;Yesterday  he  told  me  there  were  seventeen  chairs  in  his  proctologist's  waiting  room.  I  said,  'You  counted  them?&quot;  He  said,  'I  did.&quot;  'But  why?&quot;  'It  helped  pass  the  time.  Didn't  I  ever  tell  you  about  my  propensity  for  enumerating?&quot;  I  said  he  hadn't,  and  what  else  did  hecount?  Members  of  orchestras,'  he  told  me.  I  expressed  my  amazement,  and  was  forced  to  reconsider  all  the  time  I  had  spent  in  his  company.  Untold  occasions  when  he  must  have  been  secretly  totting  things  up  swam  into  view.  'There's  a  lot  about  me  you  don't  know,'  he  said.&quot;  &quot;But  you,&quot;  [REDACTED]  said,  &quot;you're  an  open  book,  aren't  you?&quot;  Tugging  Josh  along  Sixth  [REDACTED],  Albert  tried  to  recall  if  he  had  ever  represented  himself  that  way.  An  open  book  is  not  like  an  open  door  or  a  dis-  robed  woman;  for  all  practical  pur-  poses,  it  discloses  only  two  pages,  a  fraction  of  its  contents,  and  the  odds  are  against  these  being  in  themselves  particularly  revelatory-&quot;the  axe,&quot;  as  Kafka  said,  describing  the  function  of  books,  &quot;for  the  frozen  sea  inside  us.&quot;  Masturbatory  practices  aside,  Albert  wondered  whether  he  led  a  secret  life.  (The  Human  [REDACTED]  once  inquired  of  him  whether,  in  fact,  he  even  led  what  is  commonly  construed  as  a  life.  It  was  late  at  night  and  they  were  in  Forest  Hills,  walking  along  a  leafy,  deserted  street  to  her  BMW,  he  having  prevailed  upon  her  to  leave  the  stadium  in  the  middle  of  the  fourth  set  of  an  interminable  baseline  match  between  Vilas  and  Orantes  which  threatened  to  end  at  daybreak.  It  proved  to  be  an  unpopular  move.  &quot;When  was  the  last  time  you  examined  your  motives?&quot;  she  shrieked.  &quot;Have  you  ever  considered  the  consequences  of  your  acts?  What  is  your  guiding  principle?  Never  to  ven-  ture  more  than  a  hundred  yards  from  a  bathroom?&quot;  Albert  didn't  reply.  He  was  concentrating  on  avoiding  her  handbag,  which  she  was  swinging  at  his  head.  He  was  a  practiced  hand,  in  his  marriage  to  [REDACTED]  having  dodged  hard  rolls,  tangerine  sections,  and  a  platter  of  linguine  with  white  clam  sauce.)  Shortly  after  Albert  left  Josh  off  and  returned  to  his  apartment,  he  noticed  that  Skippy  was  in  the  garden.  The  perspective  was  unsettling,  like  that  of  Raphael's  &quot;The  Glorification  of  the  Sacrament&quot;  or  Mantegna's  &quot;The  Dead  Christ,&quot;  and  brought  to mind  the  view  from  the  roof  of  the  dome  of  St.  Peter's,  to  which  he  had  climbed  years  ago.  From  there,  the  great  statues  of  the  saints-which,  when  looking  up  at  them  from  below,  he  had  assumed  to  be  erect-appeared,  like  swimmers  on  the  mark,  to  be  on  the  verge  of  launching  themselves  into  the  square.  So  much  depends  on  one's  van-  tage  point,  Albert  reflected-where  you  are  standing.  We  rely  on  conven-  tions,  the  way  things  are  supposed  to  be,  for  most  of  our  understanding,  and  thus  tend  to  skip  the  hard  parts-en-  deavoring  to  find  hidden  truths,  to  elucidate  mysteries,  to  recognize  a  cry  for  help;  even  the  road  to  self-knowl-  edge  becomes  paved.  Poets  are  no  more  often  seen  from  above  than  whales  from  below,  until  someone  wields  Kafka's  splintering  axe.  Albert  took  up  the  binoculars  with  which  he  watched  birds,  and  trained  them  on  Skippy's  notebook  to  see  if  he  could  make  out  what  Skippy  was  writ-  ing.  Albert  read:  &quot;'The  perusal  of  literary  compositions  across  a  state  line,  with  intent  to  appropriate  them  for  one's  own  use,  is  a  Federal  offense,  punishable  by  no  less  than  ...&quot;  Withdrawing  from  the  window,  Al-  bert  went  to  the  bathroom.  Above  the  tub  was  a  skylight.  As  though  he  were  in  the  Pantheon  or  [REDACTED]  Stadium,  a  shaft  of  sunlight  sometimes  unexpected-  ly  illuminated  him  while  he  was  taking  a  shower,  and  he  would  feel  as  if  he  were  being  singled  out-but  for  what?  Lately,  Albert  had  come  to  the  con-  clusion  that  if  it  were  possible  to  absorb  the  unhappiness  of  others  that  would  be  the  mission  he  would  undertake.  Like  the  old-clothes  man  who  in  Al-  bert's  youth  trudged  the  streets,  head  expectantly  uplifted,  crying  &quot;Old  clothes!  Old  clothes!&quot;  and  retrieved  the  bundles  housewives  flung  from  the  windows,  he  would  cry  out  &quot;Sor-  rows!  Sorrows!&quot;  and  wait  below  with  open  arms.  &quot;IRE!&quot;  a  voice  had  cried,  awak-  ening  Albert  and  the  Human  [REDACTED],  who  was  sleeping  over.  He  had  gotten  out  of  bed  and  rushed  downstairs.  The  vestibule  seemed  to  be  ablaze  and  a  black  youth  of  sixteen  or  so  was  dancing  wildly  about  the  flames,  When  Albert  got  closer,  he  saw  that  what  was  burning  was  a  stack  of  fire-  wood  the  landlord  kept  behind  the  front  door,  and  what  the  boy  was  do-  ing  was  trying  to  grab  some  of  the  fiery  logs  so  he  could  throw  them  out  onto  the  sidewalk.  Albert  joined  in,  but  the  flames  were  too  intense;  in  ad-  dition,  the  wall  against  which  the  wood  was  stacked  had  caught  fire.  Recalling  " b"that  the  hose  used  to  flush  the  sidewalk  was  hookedon  the  top  rung  of  the  lad-  der  leading  to  the  basement,  Albert  ran  down  the  stoop,  heaved  open  the  basement  doors,  and  passed  the  hose  up  to  the  boy.  When  the  fire  was  out  and  the  boy  (was  he  a  firebug?)  gone,  Al-  bert  turned  to  put  the  hose  away  and  noticed  for  the  first  time  that  the  Hu-  man  [REDACTED]  was  standing  on  the  side-  walk.  Alongside  her,  but  somewhat  apart,  were  [REDACTED],  wearing  a  robe  that  his  mother  had  insisted  on  giving  him  but  that  he  had  had  no  use  for;  Skippy  Mountjoy,  dressed  in  an  old  raincoat  of  Albert's  that  [REDACTED]  had  altered  and  given  to  Skippy;  and  Josh,  whose  leash  Skippy  was  holding.  Looking  down  at  them  from  the  top  ofthe  stoop,  Albert  was  struck  by  how  short,  even  stumpy,  [REDACTED]  and  Skippy  were  compared  to  the  Human  [REDACTED]  and  himself.  It  was  almost  as  if  they  were  members  of  a  different  race-one  among  which,  like  an  anthropologist  or  missionary,  he  had  dwelt  but  whose  mysteries  he  hadn't  penetrated;  they  were  sharers  in  a  tribal  history  from  which  he  was  excluded.  His  hand-me-  downs  seemed  to  point  up  his  own  in-  adequacies;  they  wore  them  the  way  savages  wear  top  hats-not  for  their  civilizing  effects  but  for  panache.  They  stood  motionless,  expression-  less,  staring  at  him,  as  though  about  to  be  photographed  on  the  banks  of  a  tributary  of  the  Orinoco.  Towering  abovethem,  Albert  felt  that  something  was  expected  of  him.  Again,  what?  To  take  notes?  To  forgive  them?  To  al-  low  them  to  forgive  him?  The  Human  [REDACTED],  for  her  part,  was  looking  at  him  as  if  to  say,  After  tagging  along  all  these  years,  is  this  my  reward-an  obscure  confrontation  in  the  smoky,  reeking  dark?  Have  you  dragged  me  here  to  be  a  witness  to  your  failure  to  involve  yourself  with  people?  Albert  found  himself  gazing  at  Josh.  How  old  and  scuffy  he  was,  like  Barney's  football,  which  had  been  kicked  around  the  [REDACTED]  41  schoolyard  for  years.  Albert  realized  he  had  not  paid  Josh  much  attention  since  becom-  ing  separated  from  [REDACTED];  the  dog  was  merely  a  vague  presence  down  there  at  the  end  of  the  leash,  a  warm,  trusting  neck  about  which  Albert  fastened  and  unfastened  a  collar.  Had  he  neglected  Barney  in  the  same  way?  &quot;Josh  is  losing  his  fuzz,&quot;  Albert  said  to  [REDACTED].  &quot;Acme  had  nowhere  to  stay,  Elite,&quot;  he  heard  [REDACTED]  say.  This  time,  the  stench  of  ashes  re-  minded  Albert  of  dead  campfires,  and  thus  of  summer  camp  and  his  youth-  the  woods  sloping  down  to  the  lake,  the  blue  foothills  on  the  far  shore,  which  he  had  never  reached,  the  bluer  mountains  beyond.  'These  unattained  peaks  would  at  times  come  to  mind  when  he  went  downstairs  in  the  morn-  ing  to  take  Josh  for  a  walk.  Albert  would  invariably  find  him  asleep  in  a  chair  by  [REDACTED]'s  bed.  He  would  grope  for  him  in  the  dark  among  the  folds  of  his  blanket,  trying  to  determine  which  was  Josh's  front  end,  which  his  rear.  While  doing  so,  he  would  glance  at  the  bed,  and  be  reassured  by  the  gen-  tle  swell  of  the  covers  that  indicated  [REDACTED]'s  sleeping  form;  it  was  a  land-  mark  that  enabled  him  to  maintain  his  bearings,  to  complete  the  familiar  circle  of  his  horizon,.  But  some  morn-  ings  another  range-steeper,  more  massive,  jagged-would  loom  behind  her,  as  though  the  earth  had  shifted  overnight  and  new  features  had  been  upthrust.  In  these  instances,  when  Josh  was  following  him  to  the  kitchen  for  his  biscuit,  Albert  would  often  come  up-  on  the  visitor's  shoes.  They  were  slip-  ons-large,  black,  scuffed.  Usually,  one  would  be  upright,  one  on  its  side,  and  they  would  never  be  together;  Al-  bert  had  the  impression  that  they  had  been  kicked  off  in  an  access  of  passion  or  that  their  wearer  had  met  a  violent  end-an  explosion,  a  hit-and-run.  It  was  Albert's  practice  on  weekends  to  buy  the  Times,  a  brioche,  and  a  bunch  of  flowers  while  walking  Josh,  " b"and  to  leave  them,  agreeably  arranged,  on  [REDACTED]'s  dining-room  table.  When-  ever  he  saw  in  her  bed  what  loomed  like  a  toppling  wave  or  the  greater  half  of  a  dictionary  unequally  open,  he  would  buy  an  extra  brioche.  For  some  reason,  the  addition  of  a  second  roll  posed  an  almost  insuperable  obstacle  to  putting  together  a  satisfactory  still-  life,  and  he  would  stand  in  the  dining  room  for  long  minutes,  fussing  with  its  components.  He  recalled  his  moth-  er's  dismay  once  upon  glancing  at  his  and  his  father's  dinner  plates.  &quot;I've  turned  the  asparagus  the  wrong  way!&quot;  she  had  cried.  Holding  the  extra  brioche  aloft,  as  though  it  were  a  chess  piece  he  wasn't  sure  where  to  set  down-  or,  indeed,  if  it  were  the  rightpiece  to  move-Albert  thought,  Perhaps  I  am  bettersuited  to  be  a  mother.  Indeed,  toward  the  end  of  the  marriage  the  roles  had  been  ill-defined;  [REDACTED]  had  been  assuming  the  father's  part  while  he  was  learning  the  mother's.  But  time  ran  out  on  them,  and  in  the  uncer-  tainty  and  confusion  Barney  slipped  through  the  net.  ONE  night,  looking  down  on  the  privet  jutting  from  the  dark  pool  of  [REDACTED]'s  garden,  Albert  was  put  in  mind  of  Pompeii,  and  how  its  excava-  tors  uncovered  what  they  believed  to  be  the  mast  tops  of  the  city's  stranded  fishing  fleet  but  which  deeper  digging  proved  to  be  a  cypress  grove-yet  an-  other  instance  of  the  fallibility  of  pre-  suppositions.  This  speculation  led  to  the  reflection  that  although  figures  diminish  as  the  space  between  them  and  the  ob-  server  grows,  time  can  magnify.  Thus  Barney  now  loomed  larger  than  in  life,  whirling  out  of  the  darkness  like  the  Black  Monk,  towering  unsteadily  in  the  garden,  so  that  his  terrified  face  was  at  Albert's  window  pale,  un-  shaven,  mutely  appealing-as  it  was  when  Barney  last  kissed  him  goodbye.  When  Barney  told  him  over  the  phone  from  [REDACTED],  a  month  before  he  re-  turned  to  New  York  and  disappeared,  forever,  from  LaGuardia,  that  he  was  running  twenty  miles  a  day,  that  he  was  going  to  win  the  marathon  at  the  [REDACTED]  Olympics,  why  hadn't  Albert  made  the  connection  and  realized  that  Barney  was  losing  his  mind?  Was  it  because  there  was  the  possibility,  how-  ever  remote,  that  he  was  a  prodigy,  that  he  would  win,  that  he  would  make  something  of  his  life?  A  wavering  beam  in  the  garden  dis-  pelled  these  thoughts.  Skippy  Mount-joy,  with  notebook  and  lantern,  was  emerging,  slowly  climbing  the  steps  from  [REDACTED]'s  apartment,  evoking  Sid-  ney's  &quot;incomperable  Lanterne  in  this  fleshly  darkness,&quot;  and  the  allure  of  the  written  word.  If  we  could  see  through  walls,  Al-  bert  believed,  we  would  be  appalled  by  what  met  our  gaze:  thousands,  tens  of  thousands  of  haunted  men  and  women  in  lonely  kitchens,  second  bed-  rooms,  and  sun  porches,  hunched  over  typewriters,  striving  for  literary  fame,  the  faint  intermittent  clatteras  mourn-  ful  as  rain  spattering  on  fallen  leaves,  which,  Kafu  the  Scribbler  tells  us,  is  a  stronger  agent  to  move  men's  hearts  than  cataracts.  Now  and  again,  Albert  had  been  afforded  glimpses  of  these  undaunted  souls-Skippy  Mountjoy,  bowed  be-  neath  the  privet,  being  the  most  recent  example.  So  have  we  all.  Albert  often  wished  it  were  possible  to  put  his  hands  gently  or  secretly  on  theirs,  press  their  fingertips  to  the  keys,  and  whisper,  &quot;'This  is  the  way  it  is  done,  this  is  the  way  itis  done.&quot;  The  impulse  brought  to  mind  his  forging  the  endorsement  on  Barney's  income-tax-refund  check,  which  arrived  after  he  was  found  in  the  [REDACTED].  (The  river,  Albert  had  persuaded  himself,  had  lain  entrancing-  ly,  dark  and  darker,  full  of  speculative  gleams,  in  the  path  of  Barney's  head-  long  flight  from  reality.)  Albert  had  copied  the  signature  from  a  college  ap-  plication  blank  that  Barneyhad  never  completed.  As  he  duplicated  the  sig-  nature,  Albert  discovered  how  pains,  takingly,  almost  devoutly,  Barney  had  written  it.  Here  he  had  ascended,  there  he  had  swooped  down;  now,  like  an  aviator  doing  aerobatics,  he  had  in-  scribed  the  glorious  loop  of  &quot;y.&quot;  As  he  reproduced  the  signature,  Albert  felt  Barney's  hand  on  his,  guiding  the  pen,  as  if  telling  him,  &quot;This  was  me,  this  was  who  I  was.&quot;  If  Barney  had  lived,  his  signature  would  have  become  more  ragged-he  would  have  learned  to  dash  it  off.  So,  in  a  sense,  he,  too,  was  an  author  manqu\xc3\xa9,  if  only  of  his  name.  \xe2\x80\x9cD  ID  you  remember  the  alimony?&quot;  [REDACTED]  asked  Albert.  She  was  lying  in  the  tub,  with  only  her  head  above  the  surface.  &quot;As  my  father  would  say,&quot;  Albert  said,  producing  the  check  from  his  pocket,  &quot;I  prepare  my  trousers  the  night  before.&quot;  Once,  when  Albert  asked  him  to  run  through  this  nifty  little  procedure,  his  father  had  said,  &quot;Before  retiring,  I  remove  the  contents  of  the  pock-  " b"ets-coins,  my  keys,  penknife,  and  so  forth-  of  the  trousers  I'm  wearing  and  transfer  them  to  the  pockets  of  the  trousers  I've  set  out  forthe  next  day-&quot;  \xc2\xab'What's  the  big  hurry?&quot;  I  always  ask  him,&quot;  Albert's  mother  had  said,  breaking  in.  &quot;And  do  you  know  what  he  tells  me?  'I  am  the  foe  of  disorder.&quot;  &quot;  &quot;While  doing  so,&quot;  his  father  had  gone  on,  &quot;I  glance  at  the  mem-  oranda  I've  jotted  down  in  the  course  of  the  day  and  put  in  my  pockets.  Some  of  these  I  may  transfer  from  pocket  to  pocket  as  many  as  a  half-dozen  times  until  the  operative  date  of  the  matter  I  have  to  re-  member,  when  I  dis-  pose  of  them.  I  recom-  mend  you  follow  my  ex-  ample.&quot;  In  his  mind,  Albert  sometimes  reversed  this  process  of  his  father's,  so  that  the  foe  of  disorder,  intermi-  nably  rummaging  in  his  pockets  under  Albert's  mother's  skeptical  gaze,  be-  came  progressively  younger  each  day,  as  did  she,  while  he  transferred  their  contents,  until  Albert's  mother  van-  ished  and  the  young  man  who  was  to  become  his  father,  having  arrived  at  his  wedding  eve,  was  alone  with  his  little  pile  of  belongings  and  memoranda,  one  of  which,  reading  &quot;Wedding,  11  a.m.,  June  25,&quot;  he  methodically  tore  into  many  pieces.  &quot;And  how  is  your  father?&quot;  [REDACTED]  asked,  lifting  an  arm  to  take  the  check.  To  Albert,  this  seemed  a  prodigious  occurrence-the  pale  arm  unexpected-  ly  rising,  dripping,  from  the  depths,  like  that  of  the  Lady  of  the  Lake.  Prodigies!  Was  this  what  the  pin-  nules  foretold,  these  mournful  inter-  ludes  in  this  vaporous  place?  After  the  fern's  decline,  Albert  recalled,  every-  one  else  lost  interest  in  it,  and  the  spray-  ing  ceremony  was  no  longer  observed;  it  was  left  to  him  to  lug  the  diminished  plant  to  the  tub  and  dutifully  sprinkle  its  few  remaining  fronds.  As  he  would  usually  take  care  of  the  fern  after  his  morning  shower,  while  he  was  still  naked,  at  night  he  would  often  discov-  er  several  pinnules  entangled  in  his  pubic  hair.  These  would  evoke  vague  longings,  as  though  they  were  evidence of  pagan  revels  in  which  he  had  been  permitted  to  take  part,  on  the  condition  that  all  memory  of  them  would  be  erased.  &quot;Limping,&quot;  Albert  repliedat  last.  &quot;He  told  me  that  he  and  his  secretary  were  walking  down  the  corridor  to  his  office,  and  that  he  was  imitating  her  rather  emphatic  step  by  stamping  his  feet  on  the  marble.  'But  I  was  not  en-  tirely  satisfied  with  the  amount  of  noise  I  was  making,&quot;  he  told  me.  'I  had  failed  to  reproduce  her  tread.&quot;  'So  what  did  you  do?'  I  asked.  'I  leapt  in  the  air,  he  said.  'And  when  you  came  down?&quot;  'I  fell.&quot;  'You  got  carried  away,'  I  said.  'Even  I  go  to  extremes,  he  told  me.&quot;  Albert  envisioned  his  eighty-one-  year-old  father  at  the  height  of  his  leap,  in  the  long,  dim  corridor  faced  with  marble  the  color  of  oldbones,  striving  tofree  himself  from  time's  grip;  and  he  also  saw  Barney,  momentarily  sus-  pended  in  the  dark  over  the  river,  seek-  ing  surcease  from  Ais  torments.  Fif-  teen  years  before-thin,  white,  naked,  aloft-Barney  had  soared  past  the  door  of  Albert  and  [REDACTED]'s  bedroom  on  his  way  to  the  bathroom.  &quot;Don't  look!&quot;  he  had  cried  in  midair,  but  Albert,  dazzled,  could  not  avert  his  eyes.  Now-shouldering  the  blame  for  Bar-  ney's  death  in  the  same  spirit  with  which  he  yearned  to  circle  under  less  specific  griefs-he  realized  that  this  time  he  had  turned  aside,  and  Barney  had  passed  from  view  forever.  As  though  with  aching  arms,  Al-  bert  bore  upraised  the  memory  ofthat  first  frantic  leap,  just  as  the  massive  &quot;Feast  of  the  Rose  Garlands&quot;  had  been  conveyed  through  snowy  mountain  passes,  for  when  Rudolf  II,  the  Holy  Roman  Emperor,  acquired  it  in  1606  he  deemed  it  too  precious  to  be  trans-  ported  by  a  carriage,  which  might  over-  turn,  and  had  it  bundled  in  rugs  and  carried  upright  across  the  Alps  from  4974616c79  to  his  citadel  in  [REDACTED]  by  relays  of  strong  men.  "