 b"FOR  each  perfect  lesson  my  son  David  earns  a  star.  For  twelve  perfect  lessons  a  pin.  Fortwo  pins  thebust  of  a  composer.  He  always  asks  for  Liszt.  In  his  third  year  of  piano  lessons,  we  have  four  Liszts  on  top  of  our  piano:  two  face  each  other  nose  to  nose,  one  has  a  bottlecap  hat,  and  one  has  a  flag  taped  to  his  shoulder.  I  final-  ly  ask  David,  &quot;Why  Liszt?&quot;  He  knows  few  songs  by  that  composer,  and  when  I  offer  to  play  him  recordings  he  isn't  even  mildly  interested.  It  turns  out,  when  his  teacher  asks  &quot;W  hich  statue?  ,&quot;  Liszt  is  the  only  name  he  can  pro-  nounce  with  ease.  David  is  ten  years  old.  He  makes  up  songs  and  plays  us  formal  concerts  but  doesn't  mention  his  recital  this  year.  E  see  an  interview  with  an  or-  phan,  on  a  children's  program  on  TV.  The  boy  is  David's  age  exactly  and  lives  in  New  Orleans  When  the  boy's  aunt  could  no  longer  keep  him,  she  stuffed  sandwiches  into  his  pockets  and  put  him  on  the  parish  bus.  He  got  off  at  the  Children's  Home,  sat  down  on  the  steps,  and  started  eating-ate  the  egg  salad,  jelly,  ham-and-cheese,  ate  till  only  the  tunafish  was  left,  zipped  up  in  his  windbreaker  pocket.  That's  how  his  name  is  Tunafish,  he  says.  He  plays  the  horn  and  wants  to  play  it  bet-  ter,  to  learn  to  finger  well,  do  glides.  Playing  a  slow  lick  for  the  camera,  he  pretends  he  is  Louis  Armstrong.  He  says  Louis,  not  Looey,  Armstrong.  He  says  he  is  happy  at  the  Home  and  wants  to  stay  until  he  is  eighteen.  That's  when  legally  he  has  to  leave.  In  truth,  he  would  like  to  never  leave.  DAVID  says  he  will  live  with  me  forever.  He's  run  away,  but  al-  ways  to  houses-blanket  tents,  wash-  ing-machine  cartons-he's  built  in  the  safety  of  his  room.  He  camps  in  them  for  days,  not  eating,  after  losing  argu-  ments  with  me.  Or  else  he  secretly  changes  hislast  name  and  refuses  to  come  when  I  call.  My  husband  and  I  didn't  know  what  to  name  him;  names  that  suited  him  didn't  go  with  ours.  After  school,  I  feed  David  sandwiches  and  softly  try  out  other  names.  The  one  we  picked  is  wrong-does  he  know  that?'  He  seems  to  be  satisfied  with  David.  Seated  at  the  kitchen  table,  he  copies  it  for  hours  on  typing  paper-huge  in  orange  Mag-  ic  Marker,  tiny  in  illegible  script.  He  writes  it  in  the  form  of  a  swan,  a  plane,  a  house,  the  number  seven.  &quot;All  the  good  books  in  our  school  library  have  my  name  in  them,&quot;  he  says.  DAVID  watches  a  film  about  Ugan-  da:  shots  of  jackal,  of  black  and  white  rhinos,of  women  washing  clothes  in  the  Nile,  where  they  may  be  attacked  by  crocodiles.  Crocodiles  don't  chew  well,  he  tells  me.  They  drag  the  women  downstream  into  caves  and  wait  nearby  for  them  to  decompose.  The  camera  lingers  at  a  water  hole:  shots  of  ostrich,  topi,  giraffes.  David's  favorite  is  the  giraffe.  They  have  no  more  neckbones  than  we  have-only  seven,  can  I  believe  that?-and  no  natural  enemies.  No  enemies,  repeats  David.  Though  lions  sometimes  prey  on  them  at  sunset,  it  takes  three  to  bring  down  one  giraffe.  And  that's  not  all  about  giraffes,  says  David.  They  have  the  largest  hearts  in  the  world.  DAVID  wants  me  to  teach  him  the  recorder,.  We  learn  the  songs  of  Friedemann  Gottschick,  written  when  he  was  a  little  boy.  The  tunes  sound  like  those  of  young  Handel,  or  young  Mozart  on  the  stool  in  his  nightgown,  waked  to  play  for  his  father's  friends.  But  they  were  printed  in  1940,  the  introduction  to  the  small  book  says.  Who  is  this  Friedemann,  I  wonder,  who  could  make  such  music  when  young?  His  Tanz  (No.  13)  is  perfect;  his  Allegro  makes  musicians  of  us  all.  I  ask  in  libraries.  He's  unlisted.  (Did  he  die  in  the  war,  lose  his  gift?)  I  write  the  music  house  in  Kassel;  months  later,  a  letter  returns.  It  is  signed  by  Friedemann's  oldest  sister,  whose  name  is  Anna  Martine.  They  were  a  parson's  family,  in  Breslau.  The  mother  had  perfect  pitch.  Her  gifts  were  passed  on  to  Friede-  mann,  the  youngest  and  most  musical  child.  He  wrote  his  first  songs  into  that  notebook;  his  mother  published  it  when  he  was  in  his  teens.  Then  his  class  were  made  gunnery  assistants  and  the  battery  was  sent  to  the  front.  Appendicitis  saved  him.  He  was  removed  for  the  operation;  when  he  was  gone,  his  com-  pany  was  hit.  He  is  now,  his  sister  writes,  a  choir-  master.  The  choir  is  famous.  Have  I  seen  them  on  TV?  It  is  demanding  work-arranging,  touring,  teaching-  and  then  there's  his  family.  His  wife  is  ill  and  disabled,  so  the  care  of  the  chil-  dren  falls  on  him.  He  has  no  time  left  for  composition.  But  no  matter,  his  sis-  ter  assures  me:  he  finds  his  home  life  ful-  ly  rewarding  and,  besides,  he  has  never  longed  for  fame.  She  wants  me  to  write  to  him  directly  and  supplies  a  southern  address.  I  do  not  write,  nor  can  I  make  David.  He's  given  up  the  recorder  alto-  gether  and  spends  his  time  drawing  tanks.  N  the  basement  David  builds  heli-  copters-saws  out  rotors,  pontoons,  windows-and  never  once  doubts  they  " b"will  fly.  Also  never  tries  them  out:  he  knocks  one  apart  to  build  another.  &quot;I  don't  want  to  ever  finish  them,&quot;  he  says.  He  goes  outdoors  only  for  baseball,  refusing  to  skate,  climb,  or  swim.  Even  in  winter,  it's  baseball.  He  aims  stones  at  the  armpits  of  trees,  hits  ice  balls  with  a  stick.  On  the  mound,  he  mimics  Rollie  Fin-  gers;  is  Rollie  the  name  he  should  have  had?  He  never  tells  me  the  names  of  his  heroes,  which  is  what  makes  it  hard  to  help  him  the  few  times  he's  asked  for  help  from  me.  TEACH  David  soft-shoe  while  I  cook  dinner.  His  body  dances,  but  he  fails  to  move  his  feet.  He  prac-  tices  whenever  I'm  watching.  &quot;Is  this  right,  is  this  right?&quot;  he  says.  The  arms  are  right,  the  way  they  hang,  swinging,  but  in  each  hand  he  holds  a  spoon.  &quot;Is  this  right?&quot;  he  asks  over  and  over,  sure  the  secret  must  lie  in  the  spoons.  He  wants  me  to  teach  him  to  juggle.  He  masters  one,  then  two  balls  eas-  ily.  I  add  the  third;  he  starts  throwing  pitches,  overhand,  straight  at  me.  HE  third  month  I  was  pregnant  with  David,  we  thought  we  had  a  boy  and  searched  for  names.  Should  he  havebeen  named  for  his  father?  About  the  cheek  they're  somewhat  akin,  but  in  a  high-school  football  scrimmage  his  father's  nose  and  jaw  were  badly  broken,  so  I  don't  know  if  they  look  like  each  other  or  when  the  resemblance  might  begin.  David's  looks  are  transi-  tory.  His  hair,  now  straight,  may  curl,  and  his  nose  is  altering  daily.  Would  naming  him  Felix  have  helped?  My  husband  wanted  Felix;  I,  Paul.  We  each  argued  forthe  name  of  a  loved  one,  but  we  loved  different  people  then.  We  worry  his  name  will  never  name  him,  but  David  never  thinks  ahead.  If  anything,  he  looks  backward.  He's  so  young  he  has  forgotten  nothing,  and  he  is  eager  to  reminisce,  to  say  &quot;When  I  was  a  baby,  remember?&quot;  or  &quot;Funny  how  I  always  used  to  think  ..  .&quot;  He  says,  &quot;When  I  was  two,  and  we  lived  in  [REDACTED]  and  the  streetcar  was  derailed  in  our  street,  do  you  re-  member  the  man  who  jumped  out  and  started  barking  and  barking  like  a  dog?&quot;  &quot;'There  were  no  streetcars  in  our  street.&quot;  &quot;Not  in  Sonnenberg,&quot;  he  corrects  me,  &quot;but  that  place  we  stayed  before  we  moved  there,  in  that  boardinghouse,  just  for  a  week.  It  was  a  No.  8  street-  car,  remember?  The  one  that  came  from  the  bridge.&quot;  When  I  ate  the  spider,  remember?  When  we  found  the  silver  pencilin  the  woods?  When  you  lost  me  at  the  auc-  tion  in  Kipton?  You  remember,  you  remember,  you  remember.  No,  I  never  do.  Did  these  things  really  happen?  Does  David  dream  them,  make  them  up?  The  details  are  so  very  convincing,  but  he  sees  I'm  not  convinced.  &quot;Well,  then,  what  did  happen?&quot;  he  asks.  He's  angry  and  I  can't  blame  him.  I  should  know  by  heart  his  crib  wis-  dom,  should  show  him  films  of  family  adventures,  documentaries  devoted  just  to  him,  but  I  find  only  a  small  box  of  photos  that  suggest  how  things  really  looked.  He  sifts  through  the  lot,  disap-  pointed.  In  most  of  the  pictures  he's  absent.  In  the  few  formal  baby  portraits  he  sees  no  one  who  resembles  him.  The  early  David  has  vanished.  ONE  June  morning,  I  wake  to  mu-  sic.  It's  not  lightyet,  but  he's  playing  loud  downstairs.  In  his  right  hand  he  holds  a  flashlight  trained  at  the  hand  on  the  keys.  When  I  enter,  I'm  afraid  I'll  scare  him,  but  it's  clear  he's  been  waiting  for  me.  He  expands  the  short  piece  with  repetitions  to  keep  me  standing  near  him  in  the  dark.  Then  he  says,  &quot;Today's  my  recital.  Are  you  and  Dad  going  to  come?&quot;  He  turns  the  flashlight  to  see  if  I'm  nodding;  the  beam  burns  my  eyes.  I  lunge  toward  him  shouting,  &quot;Don't  do  that!&quot;  He  keeps  it  aimed  at  my  face.  I  hurt  his  arm  when  I  grab  for  the  flashlight,  but  I  have  managed  to  nod  yes.  By  afternoon,  he  is  terribly  sleepy.  He  wets  his  hair  and  combs  it  straight  back  from  his  forehead  ;  it  takes  him  an  hour  to  dress.  We  arrive  at  the  church  hall  early,  but  he  leaves  us  to  find  his  seat.  He  can't  bear  being  with  us  in  public,  doesn't  look  to  see  where  we  sit.  He  is  fourteenth  on  the  program.  By  his  turn,  he's  fast  asleep.  His  teach-  er  motions  for  someone  to  wake  him;  his  pals  punch  him  in  the  ribs.  He's  sup-  posed  to  play  a  third-year  sonatina,  but  he  performs  a  composition  of  his  own.  It  is  called,  he  announces,  &quot;Uganda,&quot;  and  occurs  in  the  bass,  with  one  hand.  When  we  get  home,  I  will  write  it  in  a  notebook,  in  case  I  forget  it  when  he's  grown."