 b"IN  1923,  my  mother  lost  her  home  in  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  to  the  aw-  ful  fire  of  that  September.  By  1926,  we  were  settled  in  southern  [REDACTED],  where  she  had  bought  an  old  garden  home  in  the  foothill  suburbs  above  Pas-  adena.  It  was  not  a  likely  property  for  my  mother  to  purchase.  She  was  used  to  a  substantial  home  in  a  conventional  setting,  and  this  consisted  of  three  old  cottages  hidden  in  a  garden  that  was  hidden  by  a  cypress  hedge  eight  feet  tall.  An  old-fashioned  and  romantic  air  of  seclusion,  almost  of  secrecy,  moved  her  to  want  the  place.  After  the  shock  of  losing  her  home  and  the  loved  fur-  nishings  of  years  of  domestic  life,  she  was  drawn  to  an  environment  that  seemed  to  offer  a  ready-made  and  se-  cure  welcome.  Once  inside  the  gate  and  down  the  long  path,  she  was  sur-  rounded  bya  private  world.  So  she  bought  the  old  garden-almost  half  an  acre,  including  three  ancient,  rustic  red-  wood  close-to-dilapidated  cottages.  Such  dwellings,  usually  called  bungalows,  were  not  too  hard  to  find  atthat  time  in  southern  [REDACTED].  People  had  built  lightly  and  lightheartedly  for  a  warm  climate,  andno  building  codes  had  bothered  them.  What  was  obligatory  was  bougainvillea  on  the  roof,  Of  her  trio,  my  mother  chose  the  largest  for  our  domicile.  One  was  to  be  rented  and  one  was  to  be  a  studio-a  vague,  exploitable  title.  By  the  time  we  moved  into  our  house,  we  had  acquired  a  little  furni-  ture,  and  as  we  were  putting  books  into  a  bookcase  at  one  end  of  the  liv-  ing  room  a  bright  streak  caught  my  mother's  eye.  &quot;What  is  that?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;It  looks  like  sunlight.&quot;  I  knelt  beside  the  bookcase  and  in-  vestigated.  &quot;It  is  sunlight,  Mother,&quot;  I  assured  her  guardedly.  &quot;What  do  you  mean,  it  is  sunlight?  How  could  it  be?  That's  a  wall.&quot;  Still  more  cautiously,I  said,  &quot;Moth,  er,  it's  a  wall  with  a  big  crack  in  it.&quot;  It  was  only  after  this  discovery  that  Mother  had  the  condition  of  the  prop-  erty  investigated.  It  was  a  stunning  surprise  to  her  to  learn  that,  typical  of  many  modest  old  houses  in  [REDACTED],  ours  was  constructed  without  studs,  and  of  walls  somehow  assembled  of  thin  redwood  planks  nailed  top  and  bottom  to  horizontal  two-by-fours.  Building  codes  and  permits  were  still  cordial,  easygoing,  or  nonexistent  when  my  mother's  bungalows  were  con-  structed.  At  that  early  period,  any-  body  who  could  hit  a  nail  with  a  rock  could  put  a  house  together,  and  often  did.  No  proper  foundations  were  re-  quired-a  few  boulders  from  the  near-  est  arroyo  would  do.  Such  houses  were  expected  to  perch.  It  would  havebeen  difficult  to  locate  three  houses  so  near  the  brink  still  perching,  and,  I  add  with  affection,  still  so  beguiling  in  their  stran-  gle  of  shrubbery  and  shaded  paths.  Style  was  no  consideration  in  houses  of  this  kind,  as  only  the  builder's  desire  forthe  picturesque  or  the  quaint  mattered,  and  in  any  case  they  would  soon  be  obliter-  ated  by  bougainvillea,  banksia  roses,  and  yellow  jasmine,  their  interiors  ill  lit  and  smelling  oddly-a  faint  stink  that  came  from  the  redwood.  On  the  drawing  boards  of  architects  like  the  Brothers  Greene,  redwood  was  used  for  fine  designing,  but  these  others,  al-  most  spontaneous  handmade  struc-  tures,  had  their  place  until  the  thirties  and  forties  in  the  historic  environment  of  southern  [REDACTED].  They  all  also  had  an  honest  place  in  the  personal  memoir  of  an  occupant  who  enjoyed  their  charms  and  suffered  their  hap-  hazardness,  including  the  carefree  cus-  tom  ofscattering  the  essential  parts  of  the  bathroom  hit-or-miss  through  the  house-perhaps  just  outside  the  house.  The  first  control  my  distraught  mother  exerted  on  her  new  home  was  to  as-  semble  the  stray  parts  of  the  bathroom  into  one  location,  where  in  the  service  of  modesty  propriety  could  close  the  door.  One  colossal  curiosity  dominated  my  mother's  house:  the  front  door.  In-  stead  of  functioning  on  hinges,  it  hung  like  a  barn  door  on  an  overhead  metal  track,  which  operated  like  a  trolley.  The  door  contained  two  windows-  one  right,  one  left-both  integral  to  the  total  creation.  'The  thing  was  damnably  heavy.  Getting  it  even  to  budge  was  a  challenge,  and  when  at  last  it  unexpectedly  did  roll,  the  sound  of  its  thunder  was  dreadful.  To  enter  the  house,  there  was  a  smart  step  up  from  the  porch  with  a  treacherous  sill;  on  this  a  visitor,  already  startled  by  the  opening  ofthe  door,  could  trip  and  fall  flat  on  his  face  into  the  living  room.  We  asked  each  other  who  in  God's  name  ever  thought  up  such  a  ridicu-  lous  way  to  get  in  and  out  of  an  old  house.  Then  we  heard  from  a  neighbor  that  the  first  known  owner  of  our  place  had  been  a  lady  by  the  name  of  Miss  Fortune  who  had  travelled  ardently  in  the  [REDACTED],  particularly  in  4a6170616e.  She  brought  back  with  her  the  concept  of  the  4a6170616eese  sliding  screen,  and  from  her  description  some  mystified  carpenter  had  made  our  monstrous  version  of  an  elegant  thing.  There  were,  without  doubt,  4a6170616eese  artisans  in  southern  [REDACTED]  who  could  have  done  it  per-  fectly,  but  it  appeared  that  she  had  re-  lied  upon  herself  (a  born  obstructionist  dedicated  to  a  morality  of  defeat).  She  had  paid  for  that,  and  now  we  were  also  paying  for  it.  The  roof,  too,  was  her  contribution-almost  without  pitch  except  for  a  little  point  in  the  middle  which  may  have  been  intended  to  make  it  look  like  a  pagoda  but  in  fact  sug-  gested  the  hat  of  a  peasant  planting  rice  in  a  Hiroshige  print.  The  sun  on  the  roof  created  a  stifling  heat.  A  con-  ventional  front  door  and  a  cooling  gable  were  alterations  that  followed  the  bathroom.  I  can  count  twelve  major  improvements  over  the  years,  all  con-  soling  to  my  mother,  who  with  each  became  a  little  less  humiliated  by  her  original  faulty  judgment.  Very  happily,  both  for  my  own  life  and  ourimmediate  circumstances  as  abashed  householders,  we  had  not  lived  in  our  delightful  slum  for  more  than  halfa  year  when  I  married.  My  hus-  band,  Frederick  Monhoff,  brought  his  conspicuous  talents  as  artist  and  archi-  tect  to  this  scene,  which  he  regarded  with  suppressed  astonishment  and  a  sense  of  humor.  For  years  to  come,  he  and  my  mother,  who  was  good  at  visu-  alizing  and  loved  floor  plans,  remod-  elled  the  kindling  of  the  old  houses  into  durable  and  attractive  bungalows,  In  becoming  desirable,  they  could  no  long-  er  be  laughed  at.  If  this  was  a  loss,  we  were  well  comforted  by  the  presence,  over  all,  of  five  respectable  bathrooms,  two  fireplaces,  French  doors  for  Moth-  er,  and  for  us  walls  of  glass,  and  a  con-  temporary  style  in  the  house  and  studio  my  husband  and  I  now  occupied.  The  one  thing  we  were  never  able  to  im-  pose  our  will  upon  was  the  population  of  foothill  opossums  that  for  scores  of  generations  had  lived  under  the  three  cottages.  They  took  kindly  to  new-  comers.  They  saw  no  reason  to  move  on.  Whatever  our  improvements,  they  continued  to  make  it  clear  that  the  place  was  theirs.  Even  when  we  added  a  furnace  for  our  own  comfort,  it  added  " b"principally  to  theirs.  One  night  in  win-  ter,  we  heard  a  savage  scratching  un-  der  the  floor.  By  morning,  the  house  was  very  cold.  An  opossum  of  more  than  usual  intelligence  and  skill  had  clawed  the  furnace  duct  apart  at  a  joint,  crawled  into  the  cozy  interior,  and,  just  big  enough  to  fit,  had  filled  it,  completely  stopping  the  flow  of  heat  to  the  registers  above.  E  did  not  know  that  we  had  set-  tled  with  a  permanency  phenom-  enal  in  those  days.  In  southern  Cali-  fornia,  most  old  homes  grow  old  in  a  succession  of  ownerships,  while  we  set  a  record  by  remaining  for  thirty-six  years  in  one  place  that  had  been  old  to  begin  with.  The  restlessness  that  ani-  mated  many  people  and  inspired  the  operatic  aggressiveness  of  the  real-es-  tate  market  did  not  touch  us-perhaps  we  were  lethargic  in  some  ways.  Still,  we  were  busy.  My  mother  attached  herself  to  the  Pasadena  Community  Playhouse  with  an  habitual  reverence  for  the  drama  and  language  spoken  clearly  behind  footlights-occasionally  by  herself,  as  she  achieved  a  role.  Fred  went  back  and  forth  daily  to  the  city  for  his  teaching  of  design  at  the  Otis  Art  Institute  and  his  architectural  work.  I  stayed  at  home  and  cultivated  a  sense  of  place  and  poetry.  The  big  solid  hedge  shut  us  all  in  psychologically.  The  years  brought  to  our  family  group  the  usual  events  of  birth  and  death  and  the  pleas-  ures  and  strains  of  existence.  Always  there  was  the  earth,  nature,  and  the  elements  that  demanded  scrutiny.  We  had  been  ignorant  of  the  foot-  hill  wind  that  blew  seasonally  from  the  interior,  beginning  with  autumn  and  going  on  through  the  late  winter.  It  had  a  name  we  learned  with  dread-  [REDACTED]  Ana.  It  blew  through  the  canyon  of  [REDACTED]  Ana  and  was  capable  of  put,  ting  enough  sand  into  the  air  to  take  the  paint  off  your  car  and  pit  the  wind-  shield  if  you  were  coming  through  the  Guasti  vineyards  en  route  to  San  Ber-  nardino.  At  home,  it  made  sleep  im-  possible,  it  blasted  the  nerves,  it  could  ruin  the  roof.  It  had  its  own  attendant,  rhythmic  weather.  Toward  evening,  the  air  would  become  clear  and  glassy,  and  a  paw  of  wind  would  reach  into  the  garden  and  shake  the  trees  and  scuffle  with  any  loose  foliage  on  the  ground.  Then  silence.  A  little  later  we  could  hear  it  approaching  down  the  canyons  of  the  Sierra  Madres  above  us.  And  more  silence-silence  almost  as  menacing  as  the  sound  of  the  wind  it-  self.  When  night  fell,  it  settled  down  to  its  real  performance-hours  or  pos-  sibly  days  of  buffeting,  thrashing,  and  banging.  It  might  blow  only  as  far  as  the  valley  plain  or  it  might  get  as  far  as  the  coast.  Some  communities  it  might  jump  over.  Wherever  it  blew,  it  had  no  observers  more  attentive  and  taut  than  ourselves.  We  learned  every  sigh  and  roar,  every  whack  of  its  repertoire,  and  especially  the  long  frightening  slide  and  spring  of  power  as  it  came  down  the  mountain  and  landed  on  top  of  us  with  a  vibrating  hoot  into  the  chimney.  The  old  cypress  hedge  was  always  bruised  in  these  storms  and  gave  off  its  pungent  smell.  During  our  first  years  in  the  garden,  we  sometimes  fled  in  alarm  to  an  inexpensive  hotel  in  Pasa-  dena.  There,  although  we  had  been  spared  the  sound  of  the  wind,  we  would  get  up  in  the  morning  to  see  broken  plate  glass  on  the  sidewalk,  and  on  the  way  home  trees  flattened  during  the  night,  or  the  steeple  of  a  wooden  church  wrenched  crooked,  with  a  revival-  meeting  sign  at  an  angle  calling  the  city  of  Pasadena  to  &quot;Come  and  live  with  Jesus.&quot;  Finally,  we  grew  ashamed  of  our  timidity  and  stayed  home  while  the  storm  raved.  We  never  learned  to  take  it  without  cringes:  cringes  and  the  raking  up  of  the  mess  and  the  return  of  other  people's  property-often  the  cat's  house  that  flew  over  the  hedge  from  the  premises  of  two  apologetic  maiden  sisters.  Having  learned  so  disastrously  about  Western  foothill  fires  in  our  brief  stay  in  [REDACTED],  we  might  have  thought  ourselves  entitled  to  immunity  from  even  the  smell  of  burning  brush.  How-  ever,  the  Sierra  Madres  burned  regu-  larly  and  within  smelling  distance  near-  ly  every  summer,  and  sometimes  di-  rectly  overhead.  More  than  once,  when  wind  brought  the  fire  into  the  outskirts  of  our  community  and  we  were  less  than  a  mile  from  flying  embers,  my  husband  spent  the  night  packing  two  cars  with  what  he  decided  was  most  valuable  among  his  collection  of  archi-  tectural  designs,  books,  Chinese  scrolls,  4a6170616eese  prints,  and  Navajo  rugs.  Onto  thispile  I  always  added  his  own  etch-  ings  and  paintings,  which  he  charac-  teristically  delayed  in  gathering.  As  I  helped  him  through  the  exhausting  hours,I  wailed,  &quot;Again?  Surely  not  again!,&quot;  and  he  answered  with  cynical  sympathy,  &quot;Yes,  again.&quot;  Early  the  next  morning,  the  wind  would  stop  and  the  fire  be  declared  under  control,  leaving  in  its  wake  a  row  of  homes  destroyed  on  the  street  highest  up.  People  who  come  to  [REDACTED]  to  live  with  the  ex-  hilarating  joys  of  scenery  and  climate  " b"must  learn  to  pay  for  the  privilege,  faithfully  and  painfully.  OUR  garden  was  typical  of  an  era  when  many  gardens  were  still  in-  spired  by  the  mission  enclosures-nota-  bly  that  of  San  Juan  Capistrano.  The  padres  had  planted  for  use  and  nostal-  gia,  bringing  with  them  cuttings,  ce-  reals,  seeds  of  vegetables,  herbs,  and  fruits  as  well  as  of  flowers.  Paths  im-  posed  a  kind  of  formality  in  the  mission  patio,  with  beds  between  them.  The  model  was  easy  to  copy  and  perfectly  suited  to  horticultural  passions  that  were  unable  to  resist  donations  of  slips  and  pinches,  and  the  plain  theft  of  something  just  too  tempting  hanging  over  the  fence.  All  available  space  was  soon  filled  with  a  rabid  jungle  of  plants  madly  embracing  each  other  and  suffo-  cating  their  mates  out  of  existence.  In  form,  our  garden  was  of  this  genre,  but  the  last  owner,  a  retired  school-  teacher  who  slept  with  an  old  [REDACTED]  gun  by  herbed  and  got  up  early  to  scare  the  finches  raiding  the  fig  tree,  was  in-  clined  more  toward  fruits  than  flowers.  We  had  persimmon,  plum,  apricot,  pear,  peach,  pomegranate,  guava,  orange,  lemon,  grapefruit,  and  lime-  some  of  them  many  years  old.  There  were  also  huge  oleanders  and  an  an-  cient  jasmine  on  my  mother's  cottage.  There  were  roses,  daphne,  crape  myr-  tle,  and  trumpet  vine,  to  begin  with.  We  soon  added  azaleas,  camellias,  hibiscus,  the  dark,  chic  hardenbergia  like  a  miniature  wisteria  and,  among  others,  the  night-blooming  cestrum  of  wonderful  heavy  scent  that  choked  my  mother  in  her  sleep,  gave  her  night-  mares,  and  had  to  be  removed.  Even-  tually,  we  had  three  kinds  of  the  so-  called  orchid  tree-lavender,  yellow,  white.  The  last  grew  to  be  tall,  and  its  snowy,  lilylike  flowers  that  delicate,  ly  straddled  the  boughs  produced  seed-  pods  of  considerable  tensile  strength  when  they  split,  which  they  did  with  a  cracking  sound.  The  seeds  were  thrown  far  and  wide,  and  I  enjoyed  finding  them,  shining  brown  and  squarish  in  shape,  perhaps  sixty  feet  from  the  tree.  Of  bulbs  we  had  the  elegant  ivory  freesias;  a  congregation  of  them  gave  off  clear  ethereal  perfume.  We  had  exotics  like  tigridia  and  alstroemeria  from  [REDACTED]  and  South  [REDACTED],  and  companies  of  pink  amaryllis,  agapan-  thus,  crinum,  spider  lily,  stylosa,  and  other  iris.  We  had  beds  of  succulents  and  rosetted  sempervivums,  and  a  cereus  that,  as  darkness  approached,  opened  an  enormous  bud  into  a  mammoth,  angelic  white  flower,  whose  eerie,  brief  mecha-  nism  of  inflorescence  collapsed  at  dawn.  These  plants  are  now  common  in  southern  [REDACTED].  'They  represent  not  botanical  knowledge  or  specializa-  tion  or  even  success  in  gardening  but  a  wistful,  hilarious  hunger  for  plants  that  is  stimulated  by  a  radiantclimate  and  an  earth  cordial  to  the  ever  newly  revealed  floral  wealth  of  other  coun-  tries.  The  Monterey  cypress  hedge  that  surrounded  our  place  was  elephantine,  and  we  loved  the  elephant,  but  we  found  it  no  small  chore  to  climb  a  lad-  der  and,  withaching  arms  and  shoul-  ders  and  shears  always  growing  dull,  tidy  up  a  green  monster  eight  by  six  by  hundreds  of  feet.  It  was  with  such  tough  labor  that  I  learned  the  wages  of  work-values  I  paid  myself  in  pleas-  ure,  pride,  and  honest  fatigue.  We  hired  help  for  only  one  day  a  week,  and  no  memory  of  our  garden  would  be  complete  without  the  inclusion  of  James  Nicolopulos.  Nicky  was  Greek-a  smiling,  de-  pendable  orb  of  warm  light  clothed  in  blue  denim,  with  a  watch  chain  swing-  ing  across  his  broad  stomach.  He  worked  for  a  number  of  property  owners  in  the  community  and  he  took  an  interest  not  only  in  their  aphids  and  snails  but  in  their  personal  problems  as  well,  He  was  nota  gossip-or  not  an  accomplished  gossip-but  a  man  whose  kindness  and  good  cheer  could  not  be  contained  in  ordinary  limits  of  com-  munication;  rather  elaborately  he  kept  a  web  of  discreet,  or  sympathetically  indis-  creet,  information,  just  taut  enough  to  entangle  his  employers  with  him  and  with  each  other.  We  might  be  social  strangers,  but  through  Nicky  an  expect-  ancy  bound  us  together.  Behind  our  hedge  we  had  news  of  what  was  happen-  ing  to  other  people,  although  news  of  what  was  happening  to  other  people's  plants  was  often  of  more  interest  to  me.  'That  man  who  lives  up  where  the  street  curves  and  his  drive  with  the  palms  goes  back  to  where  his  house  is?&quot;  I  might  inquire  in  a  twisting  sentence  resembling  the  drive  referred  to.  Nicky  would  say,  &quot;She's  all  right.  His  wife  came  home  from  the  hospital  all  right.&quot;  (I  had  not  met  his  wife.)  &quot;And  the  palm  at  the  front  that  was  injured  in  the  wind  storm?&quot;  (It  was  a  good  Livistona  chinensis,  and  I  sus-  pected  that  its  owner  did  not  prize  it  highly  enough  even  before  the  storm  blew  its  head  off.)  &quot;The  palm's  all  right,&quot;  Nicky  as-  sured  me.  &quot;So  he  threw  it  down  into  the  arroyo,  so  I  pulled  it  out  of  the  ar-  royo,  soI  told  him,  'Never  throw  away  a  dead  palm.  A  dead  palm  is  never  [REDACTED];  &quot;Good,  good,&quot;  I  said,  and  this  in-  formation  relieved  my  mind  of  an  item  of  worry  and  indignation.  Another  day:  &quot;Nicky,  I  need  a  real-  " b"ly  fine  white  oleander.  That  man  who  sells  cars-&quot;  &quot;He's  drinking  all  the  time.  He  nev-  er  stops  drinking  all  the  time.  He  nev-  er  stops  women  all  the  time.&quot;  &quot;Just  the  same,  I  want  a  cutting  from  his  best  white  oleander  along  the  street.&quot;  &quot;Help  yourself.  She  hasa  hard  life.&quot;  (This  wife  Idid  know  and  could  agree.)  Only  rarely  were  names  included  in  these  exchanges,  but  identities  were  established  by  plants  known  to  me.  Were  other  people  treated  to  brief,  vivid  views  of  our  lives?  Probably.  All  of  Nicky's  employers  profited  from  his  immediate  recognition  of  the  usefulness  of  any  materials  he  might  spy  in  a  dormant  or  restful  state.  In  a  suburban  economy  during  the  war,  it  was  sometimes  difficult  to  find  or  buy  what  one  needed,  and  Nicky  kept  his  eye  open  for  such  needs.  There  was  a  section  of  the  old  hedge  that  had  died  and  left  a  gap.  When  our  son  was  beginning  to  walk  and  could  get  far  enough  to  wander  off  the  property,  this  had  to  be  patrolled.  One  morning,  I  saw  with  surprise  that  across  the  hole   in  the  hedge  had  been  stretched  pre-  cious  and  unprocurable  chicken  wire,  &quot;From  Mrs.  Pier's  chicken  yard,&quot;  said  Nicky.  &quot;Doesn't  Mrs.  Pier  need  it?&quot;  &quot;Not  just  now.  She  got  tired  of  chickens.  And  she  looks  better  without  chicken  wire.&quot;  I  was  grateful  for  our  neighbor's  ennui  toward  chickens.  Then  I  noticed  the  absence  of  a  good  seedling  Ochna  multifiora,  a  shrub  listed  as  rare  in  my  favorite  handbook  of  ornamental  plants.  The  seedling  had  come  up  at  the  bot-  tom  of  our  garden  just  above  our  neighbor's  driveway.  I  was  watching  it  with  covetous  pleasure.  &quot;What  hap-  pened  to  my  ochna?&quot;  I  asked  Nicky.  &quot;She  likes  it,&quot;  Nicky  said  succinctly.  &quot;She  thinksthe  seedpods  are  funny.  So  I  took  it  to  her.&quot;  His  sense  of  justice  in  exchange  could  operate  quickly.  Then  there  was  the  old  wheelbar-  row.  My  mother,  who  never  would  have  used  it,  happened  to  miss  it  one  day.  &quot;Nicky,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;I  thought  there  was  an  old  wheelbarrow  here  when  I  bought  this  place.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  yes,&quot;  he  said  cheerfully.  &quot;Mrs.  Eddy  needed  it.&quot; &quot;Eddy?&quot;  my  mother  asked  vaguely.  &quot;Down  on  Mariposa  Street,  thebig  brown  house,&quot;  Nicky  said.  &quot;You  know  the  three  big  brown  houses?  Mrs.  Eddy  lives  in  the  biggest  big  brown  house.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  yes.&quot;  Mother  brightened.  Her  wheelbarrow  had  advanced  socially.  But  her  conscience  was  at  once  in-  volved.  &quot;It  was  broken.  How  can  they  use  it?&quot;  &quot;No  matter,&quot;  said  Nicky.  &quot;Mr.  Eddy  is  very  nice  repair  man.  He  had  good  time  fixing  it.  When  you  get  it  back  it  will  be  better  yet.&quot;  Then  there  was  Mrs.  Kellogg's  clump  of  cuphea,  This  affair  did  not  turn  out  so  well  for  us.  Nicky,  know-  ing  ofa  blank  spot  in  our  garden,  came  one  day  bearing  a  clump  of  cupheas  in  full  flower,  and  plenty  of  roots  and  good  earth-a  gift  in  itself.  I  admired  the  red  tubular  blossoms.  Nurseries  had  only  recently  introduced  the  cupheas.  They  were  fashionable.  As  the  blank  spot  disappeared  under  the  expanding  cuphea,  I  wondered  what  the  toll  of  exchange  was  going  to  be.  For  several  months,  I  was  allowed  ignorance,  until  oneday  the  plant,  very  handsome  un-  " b"der  my  care,  vanished.  One  of  its  pop-  ular  names  was  &quot;firecracker.&quot;  &quot;The  Cuphea  ignea  has  exploded!&quot;  I  cried  to  Nicky.  Nicky  was  calm.  &quot;She  thought  she  didn't  want  it  and  then  she  wanted  it  bad&quot;  was  his  untroubled  explanation.  With  the  passing  of  time,  there  came  a  day  when  I  heard  the  sound  of  busy  cackling,  and  I  sauntered  down  to  the  bottom  ofthe  garden  to  take  a  look.  Sure  enough,  the  fence  had  gone.  A  few  years  had  passed  and  the  child  was  now  a  boy  in  school.  Mrs.  Pier's  hens  were  back  and  the  chicken  wire  had  been  replaced  where  it  was  needed.  It  was  fascinating  to  live  under  Nicky's  cycles  of  use  and  restoration.  Just  as  we  began  tofeel  thelack  of  a  wheelbarrow,  ours  came  rolling  home  in  a  splendid  condition  of  repair-bet-  ter  yet,  as  Nicky  had  promised.  Moth-  er  sat  on  her  porch  and  watched  with  approval  as  Fred  and  I  hauled  used  brick  to  border  a  bed  of  herbs.  Plainly  she  was  flattered  by  Mr.  Eddy's  resus-  citation  of  the  fitness  ofthings  in  her  daily  life.  Nicky  loved  my  mother.  It  may  have  been  her  dignity  and  bearing  that  drew  his  respect,  or  perhaps  it  was  her  occasional  confusion,  which  seemed  to  bring  her  down  to  the  level  of  his  own  inadequacies.  In  any  case,  Nicky  felt  about  Mother  as  I  felt  about  the  quail  in  the  garden,  of  whom  I  said,  be-  cause  I  loved  them,  &quot;Quail  can  do  no  wrong.&quot;  Even  when  she  indulged  in  an  ob-  viously  human  break-  down  at  a  stray  par-  rot  that  ate  her  sweet  tangerines  (she  threw  stones  at  the  robber,  called  him  names,  and  swore  at  him),  Nicky  applauded  and  bent  double  with  amuse-  ment-not  easy  for  a  fat  man.  HE  time  came  when  we  did  away  with  the  big  hedge  to  which  we  had  clung  past  its  years  of  health  and  usefulness.  To  chop,  saw  down,  or  somehow  vanquish  a  perishing  cypress  hedge  is  a  major  job.  The  wood  was  hard  and  dense.  And  then  to  break  into  a  symbol  of  containment  as  old  and  strong  as  our  hedge,  even  though  it  was  impaired,  took  more  than  axe  and  saw-it  re-  quired  melancholy  determination.  A  family  doesnot  lightly  destroy  the  for-  tress  of  its  privacy.  Already  three-  quarters  of  a  century  old,  it  could  never  in  our  generation  be  replaced.  In  the  end,  the  job  was  too  mournful  for  us,  too  demanding,  and  we  called  in  a  company  of  powerful  black  brothers  who  specialized  in  such  destruction.  We  knew  at  once  that  enclosure  had  been  a  good  feeling,  that  we  could  never  live  exposed  to  public  and  street,  with  no  privacy  in  front  of  daily  life.  We  must  build  a  wall,  and  Fred  designed  one-handsome  and  original.  As  the  trench  was  being  dug  and  the  footing  poured,  it  became  evident  to  our  next-door  neighbor,  Annie,  that  he  was  about  to  perpetrate  a  peculiarity.  A  wall  should  be  straight  and  stand  within  the  property  line.  If  it  did  not  do  so,  something  weird  was  taking  place.  &quot;Just  where  is  your  wall  going  to?&quot;  Annie  inquired.  I  responded  with  pride  in  Fred,  &quot;Our  wall  is  designed  with  certain  formal  irregularities.  Have  you  ever  seen  a  serpentine  wall?&quot;  &quot;I  have  not,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;but  I  can  see  by  the  foundations  that  yours  is  go-  ing  to  wiggle.&quot;  A  short  portion  of  our  wall  was  straight,  then  beyond  the  gate  it  broke  into  angles  at  regular  intervals  just  long  enough  to  give  grace  to  its  composition.  The  materials  were  a  pale  yellow-rosy  concrete  block,  and  redwood  horizon-  tal  fencing  on  top.  It  was  good,  it  was  distinguished,  and  I  no  longer  mourned  the  hedge.  On  the  day  when  it  was  fin-  ished  and  the  mason  was  driving  off  with  his  rattling  equipment,  we  stood  in  the  street  admiring  it.  Our  enjoyment  was  broken  into  by  Annie  at  her  end  of  the  wall.  &quot;Did  you  know  that  you  have  built  your  wall  way  out  into  thestreet?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;That's  county  property,  and  the  County  of  Los  Angeles  will  sue  you,  and  probably,&quot;  she  continued  with  satisfaction,  &quot;make  you  take  the  wall  down.&quot;  &quot;Just  a  minute  before  you  start  wrecking  the  wall,&quot;  Fred  said.  He  dis-  appeared  through  the  gate  and  came  back  with  his  steel  tape.  If  the  creative  calculations  of  his  designing  contained  a  shade  of  mystification,  he  was  never  flustered  by  a  lack  of  comprehension  in  a  conventional  mind.  He  unreeled  the  end  of  his  tape  and  handed  it  to  Annie.  &quot;Step  on  it.&quot;  She  did  so,  and  he  continued  to  un-  reel  the  long  tape  past  the  projections  of  the  wall  to  our  corner  mark.  It  was  plain  that,  instead  of  en-  croaching,  we  had  ac-  tually  donated  footage  to  the  County  of  Los  Angeles.  Annie  sighed  and  stepped  off  the  tape.  &quot;I  might  as  well  have  kept  my  fat  mouth  shut,&quot;  she  remarked  amiably.  Afterward,  she  proved  herself  a  really  good  sport  and  paid  half  the  cost  of  constructing  the  portion  of  wall  be-  tween  our  two  prop-  erties.  OMETIMES,  as  Fred  and  I  were  climbing  the  trail  up  Mount  Wilson,  we  would  hear  far  above  us  the  sound  ofa  bell.  We  knew  we  were  about  to  meet  the  Her-  mit  of  the  Mountains,  as  he  was  called,  com-  ing  down  with  his  bur-  ro  and  his  police  dog  for  " b"provisions.  Somewhere  on  the  chapar-  ral-covered  heights  he  had  a  shelter,  somewhere  he  lived  in  a  chosen  place  that  was  safe  from  the  city.  But  even  at  that  distance  he  could  not  escape  the  sight  of  what  was  happening  in  the  val-  ley  and  on  the  plain.  Increase-a  prod-  igality  of  increase.  Increase  of  people  whose  lights  shone  up  at  him  in  thou-  sands  of  radiant  earthly  stars,  increase  of  boulevards  and  freeways  whose  blaz-  ing  progress  burned  all  night,  increase  ofthe  smokes  of  industry,  increase  of  planes  overhead  and,  if  unseen  from  here,  increase  of  ships  at  San  Pedro,  and  on  some  days  an  increase  of  the  wandering  smog-a  floating,  polluted  substance  that  hid  the  earth  from  the  hermit's  mountain  and  his  mountain  from  the  earth.  As  we  met,  we  ex-  changed  greetings,  patted  the  burro,  and  respectfully  said  helloto  the  big  serious  dog-five  of  us  who  paused  for  a  moment  in  the  fragrant  pigmy  forest,  where  mountain  and  nature  seemed  in-  violable  and  yet  afforded  a  superb  view  of  stupendous  change  in  Western  his-  tory.  Summer,  and  ripe  figs  to  preserve,  and  the  dark  triangular  visages  of  honeybees  clustered  on  the  kitchen  screen,  drawn  there  by  syrup  and  cloves.  Winter,  and  drenching  storms  that  fell  in  second  showers  while  wind  shook  the  wet  bamboo  dripping  and  heavy  with  the  original  rain.  Spring,  and  the  slow  release  of  fragrance  from  the  buds  of  freesias.  At  all  seasons,  there  occurred  in  thestudio  in  the  old  garden  the  disciplines  of  form  and  rhythm,  a  labor  loosely  and  mysterious-  ly  called  &quot;creativity,&quot;  but  accomplished  only  by  strict  vision  and  tightening  of  thought  as  pastel,  charcoal,  brush,  or  tool  lifted  a  building,  a  design,  an  etch-  ing  from  tracing  paper,  canvas,  orcop-  per  plate;  if  there  was  mystery  in-  volved,  it  was  the  presence  of  a  unique  intelligence  working  patiently  until  late  hours  while  the  mockingbird  sang  strenuously  in  the  loquat  tree  overhead.  And  the  garden  continued  to  be  filled  with  its  own  events,  indifferently  turn-  ing  in  upon  itself  and  unaware  of  the  human  beings  who  occupied  it.  As  the  coming  of  a  young  life  had  been  an  absorbing  joy,  so  the  departure  of  the  old  life  was  soon  to  be  at  hand  with  heartache.  One  day,  my  mother,  who  had  been  losing  strength  and  vi-  tality,  stood  in  her  living  room  and  cried  in  a  voice  of  terror,  &quot;What  is  happening  to  me?&quot;  I  could  give  her  no  answer,  but  I  shared  her  terror  and  the  cruel  extremity  of  the  moment.  I  suffered  what  she  was  suffering  and,  in  addition,  my  own  anguish  of  ignor-ance  and  confusion.  Hers  was  to  be  a  slow  way  of  dying-not  of  agony  but  of  great  tedium  and  frightening  nerv-  ousness.  &quot;How  long,  O  Lord,  how  long?&quot;  she  implored  each  night  before  the  drug  took  effect  and  she  thankfully  fell  asleep.  One  evening,  I  brought  her  a  saucer  of  apricots  that  I  had  cooked.  &quot;How  good  these  apricots  are,&quot;  she  said.  They  were  her  last  words  to  me-nothing  to  put  on  a  monument  but  consoling  to  remember,  because  they  were  simple  and  natural  and  spo-  ken  in  conscious  possession  of  her  cul-  tivated  voice.  Her  grandson  had  come  to  her  bedside  to  say  good  night.  Now,  as  a  man,  he  recalls  that  she  said  to  him  not  good  night  but  goodbye.  Be-  fore  morning,  she  died  softly  in  her  sleep.  When  an  old  hedge  dies,  you  can  replace  it  by  a  wall  and  the  contain-  ment  of  life  within  is  undisturbed.  When  people  die,  the  strangeness  of  in-  habited  emptiness  takesover.  The  per-  son  is  gone,  but  the  person  is  still  there,  must  be  accommodated,  must  be  be-  lieved  in.  Mother  was  dead,  and  al-  though  I  had  inherited  the  old  garden  and  all  that  was  in  it,  and  although  our  own  marks-my  husband's  and  mine-  were  deep  on  the  place,  still,  possession  must  be  divided  with  the  late  owner  in  ways  difficult  to  define.  It  had  to  do  with  a  fragile  spiritual  leftover,  the  staple  of  immortal  essence,  personality.  Death  has  no  power.  The  yellow  jasmine  on  her  cot-  tage  was  in  heavy  bloom,  a  huge  vine  that  let  fall  a  sheet  of  small  gold  flow-  ers  fresh  every  day.  Usually  I  swept  them  up  in  yellow  heaps,  but  at  this  moment  I  let  them  lie  on  the  bricks  of  the  walk,  growing  deeper  in  rich  gold,  and  one  could  look  down  from  the  gate  and  see  the  solid  stretch  of  blos-  soms,  long  and  wide.  To  leave  them  there  was  not  sentimental;  it  was  prac-  tical  and  comforting-even  therapeutic  in  its  daily  restoration  of  continual  brightness.  Mother  was  gone  in  a  lin-  gering,  plaintive  way.  Nicky  was  not  well.  He  could  no  longer  take  a  pint  of  red  wine  with  boiled  sheep's  head  and  grape  leaves  stuffed  with  rice  and  gar-  lic  for  breakfast.  We  all,  both  dead  and  living,  needed  to  be  cheered  up,  if  only  by  the  sight  of  something  so  bright.  Even  at  noon  in  the  broad  light  of  southern  [REDACTED]  the  old  garden  felt  dark.  "