 b"THAT  Sabbath  afternoon,  the  talk  on  the  porch  happened  to  be  about  teachers,  tutors,  and  cheder  boys.  Our  neighbor  Chaya  Riva  com-  plained  that  her  grandchild  got  such  a  slap  in  the  face  from  his  teacher  Mi-  chael  that  he  lost  a  tooth.  Michael  had  a  reputation  not  only  as  an  accom-  plished  teacher  but  also  as  a  big  slap-  per  and  pincher.  Cheder  boys  used  to  say  that  when  he  pinched,  you  saw  the  city  of  Krakow.  He  had  a  nickname-  Scratch  Me.  If  he  felt  an  itch  on  his  back,  he  gave  his  whipping  stick  to  one  of  his  pupils,  with  an  order  to  scratch  him  under  his  shirt.  Two  other  women  were  sitting  on  our  porch-Reitze  Breindels  and  my  Aunt  Yentl,  who  wore  a  bonnet  and  a  dress  with  arabesques  in  honor  of  the  Sabbath.  The  bonnet  had  many  beads  and  four  ribbons-yellow,  white,  red,  and  green.  I  sat  there  and  hstened  to  the  talk.  Aunt  Yentlbegan  to  smile  and  look  around.  She  gave  me  a  side  glance.  \xe2\x80\x9cWhy  do  you  sit  among  the  women?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;Better  go  and  study  the  'Ethics  of  the  Fathers.&quot;  &quot;  I  understood  that  she  was  about  to  tell  a  story  an  eleven-year-old  boy  should  not  hear.  I  went  behind  the  porch  to  the  storage  room,  where  we  kept  the  Passover  dishes,  a  barrel  with  torn  books,  and  a  pillowcase  filled  with  my  father's  old  manuscripts.  The  walls  had  wide  cracks,  and  every  word  spoken  on  the  porch  could  be  heard.  I  sat  on  an  oak  mortar  that  was  used  to  grind  matzo  meal.  Through  the  cracks  the  sun  reflected  the  colors  of  the  rainbow  in  the  floating  dust.  I  heard  my  Aunt  Yentl  say,  &quot;In  the  little  villages  things  are  not  so  terrible  yet.  How  many  madmen  can  you  find  in  a  small  town?  Five  or  ten-not  more.  Besides,  their  crimes  cannot  be  kept  secret.  But  in  a  big  city  evil  deeds  can  remain  hidden  for  years.  When  I  lived  in  [REDACTED],  a  man  by  the  name  of  Reb  Yissar  Man-  dlebroit  had  a  drygoods  store  that  sold  silk,  velvet,  and  satin,  as  well  as  laces  and  accessories.  His  first  wife  died  and  he  married  a  young  wench,  the  daugh-  ter  of  a  butcher.  Her  hair  was  the  color  of  fire  and  she  had  the  mouth  of  a  shrew.  From  his  first  wife  Reb  Yissar  had  married  children,  but  with  this  new  one-her  name  was  Dosha-he  had  only  one,a  boy  named  Yankele.  He  took  after  his  mother  in  looks,  with  red  sidelocks  and  blue  shining  eves  like  little  mirrors.  In  that  family,  Dosha  was  the  boss.  When  an  old  man  marries  a  young  piece  of  flesh,  she  is  the  ruler.  &quot;At  cheder,  Yankele  had  a  teacher  who  should  never  have  been  allowed  to  teach.  But  how  could  people  know?  His  name  was  Fivke.  He  was  either  di-  vorced  or  a  widower-a  giant  of  a  man,  black  like  a  gypsy.  He  wore  a  short  robe  and  boots  with  high  uppers,  like  a  Russian.  He  wasn't  from  [REDACTED]  but  from  another  region.  He  taught  the  Pentateuch,  and  also  a  little  Russian  and  Polish.  In  those  years,  the  wealthy  Jews  wanted  their  children  to  acquire  some  Gentile  knowledge.  &quot;First,  let  me  tell  you  what  hap-  pened  to  me.  My  former  husband,  blessed  be  his  memory,  was  already  a  grandfather  at  the  time  we  married,  but  his  wife  left  him  a  young  child,  Chazkele,  when  she  died,  and  I  loved  him  more  than  I  would  have  loved  a  child  of  my  own.  He  called  me  Mama.  Every  day  I  took  a  bowl  of  hot  soup  and  a  slice  of  bread  to  the  cheder  for  him.  I  went  at  two  o'clock-recess  time-when  the  children  played  in  the  courtyard.  I  sat  with  Chazkele  on  a  log  and  fed  him  his  lunch.  He's  a  father  now  and  lives  far  from  here,  but  if  I  should  meet  him  I'd  want  to  kiss  him  all  over.  One  day  I  came  with  my  bowl  of  soup  and  the  slice  of  bread  but  the  courtyard  was  empty.  Only  one  little  boy  came  out  to  urinate.  I  asked  him,  'Where  are  all  the  boys?&quot;  He  said,  'Today  is  whipping  day.'  I  didn't  understand.  The  door  to  the  cheder  was  half  open  and  I  saw  Fivke  standing  at  a  bench  with  a  strap  in  his  hand,  calling  out  the  boys  to  be  whipped  one  after  another-Berele,  Schmerele,  Koppele,  Hershele.  Each  boy  came  over,  pulled  down  his  little  pants,  and  was  hit  once  or  twice  on  his  naked  behind.  Then  he  walked  back  to  the  long  benches.  The  older  boys  laughed  as  if  the  whole  thing  was  a  game,  but  the  very  young  ones  burst  out  crying.  That  my  heart  did  not  break  on  the  spot  proved  I  was  stronger  than  iron.  I  began  to  search  for  Chazkele  among  the  children.  The  cruel  teach-  er  was  so  busy  whipping  he  didn't  see  me.  I  had  made  up  my  mind  that  if  he  called  Chazkele  I  would  run  over  and  throw  the  hot  soup  in-  to  his  face  and  tear  out  his  beard.  However,  it  seemed  my  Chazkele  had  already  been  whipped,  because  the  perform-  ance  ended  quickly.  &quot;I  ran  to  my  husband's  store  like  a  poisoned  rat  and  told  him  what  my  eyes  had  seen,  but  all  he  said  was,  'Children  should  be  punished  once  in  a  while.'  He  opened  the  Bible  and  showed  me  the  passage  in  the  Book  of  Proverbs:  'He  that  spareth  his  rod  hateth  his  son.'  The  child  did  not  make  any  fuss.  He  was  a  good  soul  and  said,  'Mama,  it  did  not  hurt.!  Still,  I  insisted  that  my  bus-  band  take  Chazkele  away  " b"from  those  malicious  hands.  When  a  wife  stands  up  to  some-  thing,  a  man  listens.  Only  God  knew  the  tears  I  shed.&quot;  &quot;What  wild  people  live  in  this  world,&quot;  Reitze  Breindels  re-  marked.  &quot;I  would  have  called  the  police  and  had  him  bound  in  chains  and  sent  to  Siberia,&quot;  Chaya  Riva  said.  &quot;Such  a  murderer  should  rot  in  prison.&quot;  &quot;That's  easier  said  than  done,&quot;  answered  Aunt  Yentl.  &quot;Why  didn't  you  have  Mi-  chael  Scratch  Me  ar-  rested?  To  have  a  tooth  knocked  out  is  worse  than  being  whipped.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  you  are  right.&quot;  &quot;The  story  is  only  beginning,&quot;  Aunt  Yentl  saidin  a  singsong.  &quot;Yes,  we  took  Chaz-  keleout,  and  after  the  High  Holidays  he  went  to  a  different  cheder.  Not  more  than  two  or  three  months  had  passed  before  I  heard  a  horrible  story.  The  whole  of  [REDACTED]  was  in  turmoil.  Fivke  had  his  whipping  day  each  month.  Once  when  Dosha,  Reb  Yis-  sar  Mandlebroit's  wife,  brought  lunch  for  her  Yankele,  she  opened  the  door  and  saw  her  little  treasure  bent  over  the  whipping  bench  being  lashed  by  Fivke.  The  child  was  crying  bitterly.  Dosha  did  what  I  should  have  done-threw  the  hot  soup  into  Fivke's  face.  Another  person  would  have  wiped  off  his  mouth  and  kept  silent.  But  Fivke  had  the  nature  of  a  Cossack.  He  let  Yankele  go,  ran  over  to  Dosha,  and  threw  her  onto  the  whipping  bench.  He  had  the  strength  of  ten  lions.  Forgive  me,  but  Fivke  lifted  her  dress,  tore  down  her  bloomers,  and  whipped  herwith  all  his  might.  He  used  the  belt  from  his  pants,  not  the  strapfor  the  children.  You  can  imagine  the  commotion.  Dosha  screamed  as  if  he  was  slaughtering  her.  It's  true  that  [REDACTED]  is  a  noisy  city,  but  people  heard  her  yelling,  and  they  came  to  see  what  was  going  on.  Dosha's  wig  fell  off  and  her  red  locks  showed. This  slut  didn't  shave  her  head.  Some  of  the  bystanders  tried  to  hold  Fivke  back,  but  whoever  tried  got  a  kick  with  his  boot.  There  happened  to  be  only  women  there,  and  what  femalecan  fight  such  a  brigand?  He  flogged  Dosha  thirty-nine  times,  as  the  beadles  did  in  ancient  days.  'Then  he  dragged  her  outside  and  threw  her  into  the  gutter.&quot;  &quot;Father  in  Heaven,  where  do  you  find  such  an  outlaw  among  Jews?&quot;  Reitze  Breindels  asked.  &quot;'There  is  no  lack  of  filth  any-  where,&quot;  Chaya  Riva  said.  &quot;Golden  words,&quot;  Aunt  Yentl  agreed.  &quot;If  I  tried  to  tell  you  what  went  on  in  [REDACTED]  that  day,  you  wouldn't  believe  your  ears.  Dosha  rushed  home  more  dead  than  alive.  Her  howling  could  be  heard  all  over  the  street.  When  Reb  Yissar  heard  what  had  happened  to  his  beloved  wife,  he  ran  to  the  rabbi  immediately.  There  was  talk  about  excommunication  and  black  candles,  Who  has  ever  heard  of  a  teacher  thrashing  a  married  woman  and  bringing  her  to  such  disgrace?  The  rabbi  sent  his  sexton  to  Fivke  and  sum-  moned  him  to  a  rabbinical  trial,  but  Fivke  stood  at  the  door  of  his  house  with  a  cudgel  and  roared,  'If  you  want  to  take  me  by  force,  try!'  He  spoke  nasty  words  about  the  rabbi,  the  elders,  the  whole  community.  Of  course,  he  soon  had  to  give  up  the  cheder.  Who  would  send  a  child  to  such  a  ruffian?  Just  talking  about  it  makes  me  feel  ants  crawling  up  my  spine.&quot;  &quot;'Maybe  he  was  possessed  by  a  dyb-  buk?&quot;  Chaya  Riva  asked.  Aunt  Yentl  put  on  her  brass-rimmed  glasses,  took  them  off,  and  put  them  on  her  lap.  She  said,  &quot;Reb  Yissar  spoke  to  his  wife:  'Doshele,  what  can  I  do?  Since  Fivke  refuses  to  go  to  the  rab-  bi,  he  will  be  humiliated  in  another  " b"way.'  Dosha  yelled,  'You  are  a  coward!  You're  afraid  of  your  own  shadow-  if  you  really  loved  me,you  would  take  revenge  on  that  criminal!'  Just  the  same,  she  soon  realized  her  husband  was  too  old  and  weak  to  fight  a  savage  like  Fivke.  She  grabbed  a  handful  of  silver  money  from  her  strongbox  and  went  to  the  place  where  the  toughs  and  the  riffraff  met.  She  called  out,  'Who-  ever  wants  to  earn  money,  take  a  stick  or  a  knife  and  come  with  me!'  She  tossed  copper  coins  and  showed  the  sil-  ver  to  the  rabble.  They  rushed  to  pick  up  the  coins,  but  only  a  few  were  will-  ing  to  go  with  her.  Even  rogues  avoid  getting  mixed  up  in  a  brawl.  A  boy  who  saw  what  went  on  ran  to  warn  Fivke  that  men  were  out  to  get  him.  Fivke  shouted,  'Let  them  try!  I'm  ready!'  When  the  men  approached,  he  took  up  an  axe  and  challenged  them.  'Come  nearer  and  you  will  not  walk  back-they  will  have  to  carry  you!'  They  got  frightened.  They  could  see  in  his  eyes  he  was  ready  to  chop  off  heads.  They  ran,  and  Dosha  stood  abandoned  with  her  money.  Fivke  chased  her  with  the  axe.  There  was  bedlam.  Some  women  went  to  the  chief  of  police  for  help,  but  he  said,  'First  let  him  kill  her  and  then  we  will  imprison  him.  We  are  not  allowed  to  punish  anyone  before  he  commits  the  crime.&quot;  These  are  the  laws  of  the  [REDACTED].  &quot;Since  Fivke  could  not  be  a  teacher  anymore  and  people  ran  from  him  like  from  a  leper,  he  had  nothing  to  do  in  [REDACTED].  I  guess  you  all  know  that  there  is  a  village  called  Piask  not  far  from  [REDACTED].  In  my  time,  the  thieves  of  Piask  were  famous  all  over  [REDACTED].  They  would  get  up  in  the  middle  of  the  night,  harness  their  horses,  go  to  some  town  in  their  britskas  and  rob  the  stores,  A  few  were  assigned  to  fight  off  the  night  watchmen.  I'll  make  it  short.  Fivke  went  to  Piask  and  became  a  teacher  there.  Bad  as  they  were,  the  thieves  wanted  their  boys  to  have  some  education.  It  wasn't  easy  for  them  to  get  a  teacher,  so  they  were  happy  when  Fivke  came.  He  took  into  his  cheder  only  the  children  of  the  thieves.  Soon-  er  or  later  thieves  are  caught  and  put  in  jail,  so  there  were  always  more  women  than  men  in  those  narrow  streets.  'The  storekeepers  sold  them  merchandise  on  credit  until  their  hus-  bands  were  freed.  They  always  paid  back  what  they  owed.  Someone  said  that  Fivke  took  the  grass  widows  under  his  protection.  He  acted  as  a  kind  of  healer-cupping  them  and  applying  leeches  when  they  felt  sick.  He  went  to  [REDACTED]  and  came  back  with  gifts  he  stole  for  them.  My  dear  friends,  not  only  did  Fivke  become  a  thief  but  leader  of  the  thieves-their  rabbi.  He  went  with  them  to  fairs,  and  if  there  was  a  clash  with  the  police  Fivke  was  the  first  to  fight  back.  As  a  rule,  thieves  don't  carry  guns-it's  one  thing  to  steal  and  another  thing  to  shed  blood-  but  Fivke  got  a  pistol  and  became  a  horse  thief.  When  peasants  caught  him  stealing,  he  shot  at  them  or  set  fire  to  their  stables.  In  many  places  the  vil-  lagers  guarded  their  property  all  night  with  knives  and  rattles.  Somehow  he  managed  to  escape  them.  If  he  was  ever  put  to  trial,  he  always  got  off.  You  know  that  judges  and  lawyers  are  on  the  side  of  the  criminal.  It  isn't  from  the  victims  that  they  make  a  liv-  ing.  He  was  a  smooth  talker  and  dis-  entangled  himself  every  time.  People  began  to  tell  wonders  about  him.  Even  if  he  was  put  into  jail,  he  broke  the  bars  in  the  middle  of  the  night  and ran  away.  Sometimes  he  released  the  other  jailbirds.&quot;  &quot;What  happened  then?&quot;  Chaya  Riva  asked.  &quot;Wait.  My  throat  is  dry.  I  will  bring  some  Sabbath  fruit  and  prune  juice.&quot;  I  CAME  out  from  the  storage  room  and  let  Aunt  Yentl  treat  me  to  a  Sabbath  cookie  and  a  pear,  She  asked,  &quot;Where  were  you?  Did  you  study  the  'Ethics  of  the  Fathers?&quot;  &quot;  I  said,  &quot;Ihave  finished  this  week's  chapter.&quot;  &quot;Go  back  to  the  study  house,&quot;  Aunt  Yentl  said.  &quot;Stories  like  these  are  not  for  you.&quot;  I  returned  to  the  storage  room  and  Aunt  Yentl  continued:  &quot;Reb  Yissar  Mandlebroit  grew  old  and  could  no  longer  attend  to  his  business,  Dosha,  that  blabbermouth,  took  over  the  whole  trade.  Her  son,  Yankele,  studied  with  the  rabbi.  In  the  evenings,  Dosha  would  come  to  our  house  for  a  chat.  Whenever  the  talk  rolled  round  to  Fivke  Dosha  would  say,  'What  do  you  think  about  my  whipper?'  This  is  how  she  referred  to  him.  My  mother,  peace  be  with  her,  used  tosay,  'It's  not  worth  talking  about  scum  like  him.  There  is  fine  flour  and  there  is  chaff?  But  Dosha  would  smile  and  lick  her  lips.  'How  could  I  have  known  that  a  teacher,  a  scholar  could  be  so  shame-  less?&quot;  She  cursed  him  with  all  the  curses  of  the  book,  yet  at  the  same  time  she  seemed  to  admire  his  prowess.  When  she  left,  my  mother  would  say,  " b"'If  she  wasn't  Reb  Yis-  sar's  wife  I  wouldn't  let  her  through  my  door.  She  is  proud  that  that  monster  abused  her.'  My  mother  forbade  me  to  have  any-  thing  to  do  with  her.  &quot;One  day  Reb  Yissar  died,  and  since  Yankele  was  still  a  minor,  Dosha  became  the  guardian  of  the  estate.  At  once,  she  dis-  missed  her  husband's  em-  ployees  and  hired  new  ones.  The  former  remained  with-  out  bread,  but  this  didn't  bother  her.  She  bought  a  plot  of  ground  where  the  nobles  lived  andhad  a  house  built,  with  two  bal-  conies  and  a  gable.  She  be-  decked  herself  in  so  much  jewelry  she  could  hardly  be  seen.  She  used  perfume  and  all  kinds  of  powders  and  pastes.  Although  the  match-  makers  flooded  her  with  matches,  she  held  off.  She  insisted  on  seeing  every  candidate  and  talking  with  him.  This  one  was  not  a  businessman,  the  next  was  not  handsome,  the  third  was  not  shrewd.  It  is  writ-  ten  somewhere  in  the  Bible  that  when  a  slave  becomes  a  king  the  earth  trembles.  &quot;Now  hear  something.  Not  far  from  [REDACTED]  there  is  a  village  called  Wawolic.  This  village  is  known  for  celebrating  Purim  two  days-the  fourteenth  and  the  fifteenth  of  the  month  of  Adar.  People  living  there  had  found  remnants  of  a  wall  supposedly  built  before  the  time  of  Moses.  This  wall  made  the  village  so  special  that  Purim  for  them  was  a  great  holiday.  Everyone  got  drunk.  This  created  a  perfect  opportunity  for  the  thieves  of  Piask.  As  it  is  on  Purim,  the  moon  was  full.  Late  at  night  when  everybody  was  asleep,  they  went  with  their  wagons  and  quick  horses  to  rob  the  stores.  They  did  not  know  that  the  Russian  Army  was  carrying  out  ma-  neuvers  in  the  area.  It  was  not  long  after  the  Polish  uprising;  the  authori-  ties  were  keeping  a  lookout  for  rebels.  As  the  thieves  were  on  their  way,  a  regiment  of  Cossacks  was  riding  to-  ward  them,  led  by  a  colonel.  When  the  thieves  saw  them,  their  stomachs  dropped.  The  Russians  asked  where  they  were  going,  and  Fivke,  who  knew  Russian,  said  they  were  a  group  of merchants  going  to  a  fair..  But  the  colonel  was  no  fool  -he  knew  there  was  no  fair  in  the  neighborhood.  He  gave  an  order  to  put  the  thieves  in  chains  and  carry  them  to  jail  in  [REDACTED].  Fivke  dared  to  resist,  but  no  one  can  beat  Cossacks  who  have  guns  and  lances.  He  was  bound  like  a  ram  and  taken  to  prison.  There  were  fences  in  [REDACTED]  who  bought  stolen  goods,  and  they  were  waiting  for  the  thieves  to  come  with  their  loot.  But  when  the  sun  rose  and  the  wagons  were  not  there  the  fences  guessed  what  had  happened  and  dispersed  like  mice.  Soon  the  bad  tidings  reached  the  wives  of  the  thieves  in  Piask.  Never  before  had  so  many  thieves  been  arrested  at  one  time,  and  while  there  was  Purim  in  Wawolic  it  was  Tishah-b'  Ab  in  Piask.  As  if  this  was  not  enough,  one  old  and  sickly  thief  could  nothold  up  under  the  beatings  and  informed  against  the  fences.  They,  too,  were  imprisoned.  Some  of  them  were  quite  rich  and  considered  impor-  tant  members  of  the  community.  They  were  all  disgraced,  along  with  their  families.  When  the  peasants  heard  that  Fivke  was  in  chains,  they  came  in  large  numbers  to  bear  witness  against  him,  and  there  was  talk  of  Fivke's  being  hanged.  &quot;During  that  time  I  happened  to  need  lace  for  a  dress  and  went  to  Dosha's  store.  She  had  stopped  coming  to  us  after  my  mother  passed  away.  However,  one  could  get  the  best  mer-  chandise  from  her.  I  went  into  the  store  and  she  was  sitting  behind  the  counter,  her  red  hair  uncovered,  dressed  like  a  countess.  She  pretended  not  to  know  me.  I  said  to  her,  'Dosha,  you  have  lived  to  see  your  revenge.&quot;  With  an  angry  look  she  answered,  'Re-  " b"venge  is  not  a  Jewish  trait,  and  turned  away.  I  wanted  to  ask  her  when  she  had  become  so  steeped  in  Jewishness,  but  since  she  played  the  greatlady  I  let  her  go.  A  clerk  gave  me  what  I  wanted.  Outside,  I  met  an  acquaint-  ance  and  told  her  how  high  and  mighty  Dosha  had  become.  She  said  to  me,  'Yentl,  have  you  been  asleep  or  some-  thing?  Don't  you  know  what's  going  on?&quot;  She  told  me  that  Dosha  had  be-  come  a  benefactress.  She  went  to  Piask  and  took  bread  and  cheese  to  the  wives  of  the  thieves,  and  anything  else  they  needed.  She  left  the  store  for  hours  and  got  chummy  with  the  wives  of  the  fences.  My  dear,  she  had  fallen  in  love  with  that  Fivke-'my  whipper,'  as  she  called  him-and  was  determined  to  save  him.  The  woman  told  me  Dosha  had  hired  the  best  lawyer  in  [REDACTED].  I  didn't  know  whether  to  laugh  or  cry.  How  could  this  be?  Really,  I'm  afraid  it's  not  right  to  tell  a  story  like  this  on  the  Sabbath.&quot;  &quot;Did  she  save  him?&quot;  Reitze  Brein-  dels  asked.  &quot;She  married  him,&quot;  Aunt  Yentl  said.  It  was  quiet  for  some  time,  and  then  Chaya  Riva  asked,  &quot;How  didshe  get  him  out?&quot;  Aunt  Yentl  put  two  fingers  to  her  lips  and  thought  it  over.  &quot;The  truth  is  that  no  one  ever  knew  for  sure,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Such  things  are  done  stealthily.  I  heard  that  she  gave  a  large  sum  to  the  governor,  and  herself  in  addition.  You  can  believe  anything  about  a  bitch  like  that.  Someone  saw  her  enter  the  gover-  nor's  palace  dressed  up  to  kill.  She  stayed  maybe  three  hours.  They  cer-  tainly  didn't  chant  Psalms.  The  only  thing  I  know  is  that  the  governor  freed  all  the  thieves  except  two,  who  re-  mained  in  prison  for  some  time.  I  was  told  that  Dosha  waited  for  Fivke  at  the  gate  of  the  jail,  and  when  he  came  out  she  fell  on  him,  kissed  him,  and  cried.  The  hoodlums  from  [REDACTED]  who  were  present  called  her  names  and  made  catcalls  at  her.  Yes,  they  married,  but  they  waited  a  few  months.  He  had  shaved  his  beard  and  wore  Gentile  clothing.  He  sold  his  house  in  Piask  and  lived  with  Dosha  in  her  new  house,  Yankele  refused  to  stay  with  his  mother  and  stepfather,  and  he  moved  to  a  yeshiva.  Those  who  saw  how  Fivke  became  a  merchant  overnight  didn't  need  to  go  to  the  theatre.  He  knew  as  much  about  the  drygoods  business  as  I  know  Turkish.  If  Reb  Yissar  Mandlebroit  could  see  what  happened  to  his  fortune,  he  would  turn  over  in  his  grave.  &quot;In  the  beginning  it  seemed  that  everything  was  fine  between  the  pair.     She  called  him  Fivkele  and  he  called  her  Doshele.  They  ate  from  one  plate.  Because  they  were  rich  they  became  greedy  for  prestige.  He  bought  him-  self  a  pew  in  the  synagogue  at  the  eastern  wall,  and  she  at  the  grate  in  the  women's  section.  The  truth  was  that  they  only  went  to  pray  on  High  Holi-  days.  She  could  not  read  and  he  said  openly  that  he  was  a  disbeliever.  Dosha  wanted  to  join  some  charity  circle,  but  the  women  would  not  allow  it.  The  couple  got  nicknames:  the  Whipper  and  the  Whippress.  When  it  became  clear  to  them  that  they  would  not  get  honors  from  the  Jews,  they  began  to  cater  to  the  [REDACTED].  The  Polish  squires  shunned  them  just  as  had  the  Jews,  so  they  turned  to  the  Russians.  When  you  give  the  Russki  tasty  food  and  plenty  of  vodka,  he  melts  like  wax.  Officers  and  policemen  visited  the  pair  constantly.  In  the  evening,  they  made  vetcherinkes  for  the  Russians-  played  cards  with  them,  and  got  drunk.  Dosha  became  so  deeply  involved  in  these  lecherous  parties  that  she  began  to  neglect  the  store.  Reb  Yissar  Man-  dlebroit's  clerks  were  all  honest,  but  Dosha  had  chosen  swindlers  for  her  assistants.  &quot;As  long  as  there  was  no  competi-  tion,  the  store  kept  up.  Then  another  drygoods  store  opened  a  half  block  from  Dosha's  store.  The  owner  was  Zelig  from  Bechow-a  little  man,  a  stranger  in  [REDACTED].  He  specialized  in  buying  goods  from  bankruptcies.  He  did  well  from  the  very  first  day,  and  tothe  degree  he  succeeded  Dosha  and  Fivke  went  down.  It  was  like  a  curse  from  a  holy  man.  Fivke  threatened  to  burn  the  new  store,  but  it  was  so  close  to  his  own  thata  fire  would  have  consumed  both.  He  could  have  killed  Zelig  or  crippled  him,  but  if  Providence  says  no,  it's  no.  Small  and  frail  as  this  Zelig  was,  he  was  afraid  of  no  one.  He  didn't  walk;  he  ran  like  a  weasel.  He  could  scream  louder  than  Fivke  and  Dosha  to-  gether.  He  also  bribed  the  machalniks.  He  hired  the  clerks  Dosha  dismissed,  and  they  divulged  all  her  trade  secrets  to  him.  Zelig's  " b"wife  was  a  quiet  dove  and  seldom  came  to  the  store.  She  stayed  home  and  bore  one  child  after  another.  Peo-  ple  expected  Dosha  to  have  children  with  Fivke,  but  no  child  was  born.  Only  Yankele  remained  to  her.  He  married  someone  in  [REDACTED]  and  didn't  even  invite  his  mother  to  the  wedding.  I  forgot  to  mention  that  Fivke  became  exceedingly  fat.  He  got  a  big  belly,  and  ared  nose  with  the  broken  veins  of  a  drunkard.  &quot;One  morning  when  Dosha's  clerks  came  to  open  the  store,  they  found  the  doors  ajar.  The  thieves  of  Piask  had  come  in  the  middle  of  the  night  and  emptied  all  the  shelves-the  same  thieves  Dosha  had  saved  from  prison  and  whose  wives  Fivke  once  played  with.  When  things  begin  to  go  bad,  there's  no  limit.  Fivke  roared  that  he  would  murder  them  all,  but  he  could  do  nothing.  There  is  a  hidden  power  in  every  human  being  and  when  this  is  gone  the  strong  become  weak  and  the  proud  humble.  It  is  written  somewhere  in  a  holy  book  that  each  animal  has  its  time.  When  the  fox  is  king,  the  lion  must  bow  to  him.&quot;  &quot;What  happened  then?&quot;  Chaya  Riva  asked.  &quot;It's  not  for  the  Sabbath.  I  don't  want  to  defile  my  mouth.&quot;  &quot;Tell  it,  Yentl.  Don't  keep  us  in  suspense.&quot;  &quot;She  became  a  whore,.  The  Russkies  came  to  her.  Fivke  was  the  procurer.  When  the  Poles  learned  what  was  go-  ing  on,  they  set  fire  to  her  house.  If  there  was  fire  insurance  in  those  times,  Dosha  didn't  have  any.  They  lost  their  store,  their  home.  They  moved  to  a  suburb  close  to  the  barracks,  and  their  apartment  became  a  whorehouse.  I  will  tell  you  about  their  terrible  end  anoth-  er  time.&quot;  &quot;What  happened?&quot;  Not  on  the  Sabbath.&quot;  &quot;Yentl,  I  won't  sleep  the  whole  night.&quot;  Chaya  Riva  raised  her  voice.  Aunt  Yentl  grimaced  and  she  spat  into  a  handerchief.  &quot;He  whipped  her,  and  she  died  from  his  whipping.&quot;  &quot;Someone  saw  it?&quot;  &quot;No  one.  Early  one  morning  he  came  running  to  the  burial  society,  cry-  ing  that  his  wife  had  suddenly  collapsed  and  died.  The  society  women  went  to  their  house  and  the  corpse  was  taken  to  the  cleansing  hut.  When  they  put  her  on  the  cleansing  board  and  saw  her  naked  body,  there  was  a  hue  and  a  cry.  She  was  swollen  and  covered  with  welts.  Women  from  the  burial  society  are  not  softhearted;  still,  one  of  them  fainted  dead  away.&quot;  &quot;Wasn't  Fivke  arrested?&quot;  &quot;He  hanged  himself.  Both  of  them  were  buried  in  the  middle  of  the  night  behind  the  fence.&quot;  It  became  quiet.  Aunt  Yentl  touched  the  tip  of  her  bonnet.  &quot;I  told  you  it  was  not  for  the  Sabbath.&quot;  &quot;What  was  the  sense  of  it?&quot;  Reitze  Breindels  asked.  &quot;No  sense.&quot;  I  had  come  out  from  the  storage  room,  but  Aunt  Yent!l  didn't  notice  me.  She  began  to  murmur  and  look  up  to  the  sky.  &quot;''The  sun  is  setting,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It's  time  to  recite  'God  of  Abra-  ham.'  &quot; "