 b"AT  breakfast,  seeing  on  the  front page  of  the  local  newspaper  a  photograph  of  a  sweet-faced  mass  murderer,  Mr,  Farnham  said  to  Mrs.  Farnham,  &quot;Doesn't  he  look  like  Mr.  Ciemiewiscz?&quot;  Then  he  realized,  with  asinking  feeling,  that  it  had  not  been  she  who  had  known  Mr.  Cie-  miewiscz;  it  had  been  the  first  Mrs.  Farnham,  with  whom,  on  the  van-  ished  continent  of  Atlantis,  Farnham  had  known  Ciemiewiscz,  the  &quot;super&quot;  forthe  building  containing  the  first  apartment  he  and  his  former  wife  had  occupied,  over  twenty  years  ago.  It  had  been  a  basement  flat.  Cats  had  crept  in  the  window  at  night.  More  than  once,  he  had  awakened  with  a  cat  purring  on  his  chest.  He  and  his  wife  had  begged  Ciemiewiscz  in  vain  for  screens.  Looking  out  at  the  street,  the  Farnhams'  young  eyes  had  been  level  with  a  bed  of  lilies  of  the  valley,  the  little  white  waxy  bells  hanging  down  like  old-fashioned  lampshades  in  miniature.  Ciemiewiscz  had  burned  the  building's  trash  in  the  incinerator  just  outside  the  Farnhams'  door  (B-1),  cursing  loudly  to  himself  over  the  in-  combustibles  that  found  their  way  into  his  collection.  His  face  had  not  been  sweet,  exactly,  but  soft,  with  curved  lips  and  mild  wide  Polish  eyes  behind  which-who  knew  now?-may  have  hung  murderous  dreams.  Farnham  had  not  thought  of  this  man  for  years.  His  thoughts  of  him  now  had  taken  less  than  a  second.  His  wife,  glancing  upward  from  the  &quot;Living&quot;&quot;  section  at  the  photograph  he  was  displaying  to  her,  perhaps  had  not  heard  his  slip  of  misplaced  nostalgia.  &quot;Incredible&quot;  was  her  simple  response,  answering  to  many  situations.  Her  lovelyeyes  lowered  and  returned  to  &quot;Living.&quot;  The  Farnhams  lived  inland,  in  a  state  people  confused  with  [REDACTED];  the  fer-  tile  flatness,  the  tall  skies,  the  way  the  trucks  rolled  day  and  night  made  them  happy,  because  these  things  were  theirs  alone.  They  had  both  been  Easterners.  He  had  lived  (it  seemed  incredible  now)  all  his  life,  in  one  city  or  suburb  or  another,  within  a  few  miles  of  the  sea.  He  had  got  out  just  in  time.  Atlantis  was  now  sunk  beneath  the  sea.  It  had  been  sandy,  marshy,  permeated  by  glistening  water  like  something  very  rotten,  and  doomed.  Odd  moments  of  his  life  there,  as  detailed  and  difficult  of  explanation  as  religious  visions  or  archeological  finds,  returned  to  him:  he  saw  himself,  was  himself,  walking  on  sand,  with  a  lame  and  swollen  foot,  down  to  the  salt  water,  arm  in  arm  with  a  woman  with  whom  he  had  never  had  an  affair.  Their  one  moment  of  intimacy,  of  contact,  had  been  then.  He  had  stepped  on  a  nail  in  his  basement;  it  had  gone  through  the  sole  of  his  sneaker  and  an  inch  of  his  foot  with  a  brutal,  but-  tery  ease.  Incredible!  Had  he  stepped  a  little  to  one  way  or  another  in  the  dark,  had  his  son  or  whoever  was  to  blame  not  neglected  to  pick  up  the  board,  or  had  some  carpenter  at  a  ma-  jestic  remove  of  contingency  not  driv-  en  that  nail  through  that  board  at  all,  his  foot  would  not  have  been  pierced.  But  pierced  it  had  been,  forcing  Farn-  ham  to  perceive  what  a  second-rate  club  actuality  is.  Membership  in  it  is  secured  through  a  mix  of  mediocre  cre-  dentials  and  fortuitous  qualifications,  while  a  host  of  preferable  possibilities  vainly  clamor  outside  for  admission.  The  nail  through  his  foot,  once  ad-  mitted  into  actuality,  brought  with  it  a  tetanus  shot,  a  cancelled  golf  game,  a  spat  with  his  son;  thus  this  event,  which  so  easily  might  have  missed  oc-  curring,  dubiously  enriched  reality.  Of  all  these  consequences,  none  endured  now  but  the  somehow  uneradicated  image  wherein,  at  sunset,  at  one  of  those  typical  Atlantan  beach  parties,  with  their  poignant  intersections  of  childhood  and  adulthood,  conjugality  and  infidelity,  this  woman  in  no  way  especially  dear  to  him  had  taken  pity  on  his  buffoon-  ishly  displayed  discomfort  and  led  him  to  the  water,  on  the  theory  that  the  cold  brine  might  ease  the  swelling.  As  he  took  his  halt  steps  in  her  embrace,  they  both  seemed  enclosed  in  a  bubble  of  white  wine,  with  its  illusory  shim-  mer  of  well-being.  The  sand  as  they   approached  the  water's  edge  became  smooth  and  cool.  Their  friends  from  beside  the  bonfire  of  driftwood  shouted  jokes,  not  necessarily  rude,  after  them.  The  woman's  waist  was  solid  under  his  hand.  His  foot  hurt.  The  scent  of  woodsmoke  was  eclipsed  by  the  great  cold  salt  breath  of  the  sea.  The  jokes  fell  away,  and  there  was  silence,  except  for  the  timeless  slip-slapping  of  the  wavelets  and  his  anticipatory  sighof  relief  as  the  bitter  summer  Atlantic  embraced  his  wound.  That  was  all.  The  memory,  now  sunk  so  deep  in  the  currents  of  time,  had  invested  itself  with  an  idyllic  grandeur,  magnified  like  a  plaster  castle  in  an  aquarium,  and  perhaps  lent  a  touch  of  eternity  by  the  uninvited  kindness  of  the  wom-  an.  On  Atlantis,  every  woman  was  a  priestess.  On  Atlantis,  Farnham  recalled  with  wonder,  people  never  tired  of  parties.  There  were  beach  parties,  lawn  parties,  housewarming  parties,  office  parties,  birthday  parties,  post-party  parties,  all  with  &quot;something  of  the  barbaric,&quot;  as  Plato  relates,  though  the  temples,  with  their  walls  and  pillars  &quot;variegated  with  gold  and  silver  and  orichalcum,&quot;  were  seldom  visited  by  Farnham,  his  wife,  and  their  friends.  In  their  suburb,  it  was  true,  &quot;of  the  buildings  some  they  framed  of  one  simple  color,  in  others  they  wove  a  pattern  of  many  colors  by  blending  the  stones  for  the  sake  of  or-  nament  so  as  to  confer  upon  the  build-  ings  a  natural  charm.&quot;  Flowering  shrubs  were  cultivated,  pools  were  dredged,  and  such  industry  as  was  needed  to  fuel  the  game  of  life  was  hid-  den  behind  tall  fences.  The  terrain  supported  hosts  of  children,  innocent  bystanders  bored  yet  glued  by  depend-  ence  to  the  constant  festivities,  bitten  by  mosquitoes  at  the  edge  of  the  volleyball  court,  crankily  falling  asleep  on  the  sofa  as  cocktail  hours  stretched  into  pickup  suppers  and  beyond.  &quot;When  darkness  came  on  and  the  sacrificial  fire  had  died  down,  all  the  princes  robed  themselves  in  most  beautiful  sable  vestments,  and  sate  on  the  ground  beside  the  cinders  of  the  sacramen-  tal  victims  throughout  the  night.&quot;  'The  children,  as  the  seasons  turned,  enlarged  gradually  in  size,  spiked  the  volleyball,  drank  all  the  beer  in  the  refrigerator,  vied  for  the  family  chariots,  and  culti-  vated  an  illegal  weed  in  cor-  ners  of  their  parents'  estates.  Unnoticed  by  all  but  a  few,  the  tides  were  seeping  high-  er,  as  could  be  confirmed  by  " b"the  rings  of  barnacles  on  the  old  pilings,  and  the  mussel  flats  gleamed  blue  un-  der  only  the  fullest  of  moons.  Rather  suddenly,  it  seemed,  all  was  sunk  be-  neath  the  water;  temples,  gardens-all  was  lost,  thoughan  occasional  Christ-  mas  card  floated  to  the  surface,  and  the  gaze  of  some  vanished  child,  wanting  to  be  taken  home,  would  well  up  from  the  sparkle  of  a  flat  sidewalk  and  break  Farnham's  expatriate  heart.  MRS.  Farnam  said,  &quot;Don't  blame  me,&quot;  setting  aside  &quot;Living.&quot;  &quot;For  what?&quot;  &quot;For  not  knowing  who  Ciemiewiscz  was.  Or  remembering  how  you  all  used  to  stay  up  all  night  eating  mussels  on  the  beach  and  then  going  to  somebody's  house  for  scrambled  eggs.&quot;  &quot;Did  we  use  to  do  that?&quot;  &quot;Rodney  and  I  used  to  do  it,  too.  We'd  stay  up  till  four  in  the  morning  playing  Botticelli  and  then  be  up  for  church  at  eight.&quot;  &quot;Incredible,&quot;  Farnham  said.  &quot;Oh,  he  was  fanatic  about  not  miss-  ing  church.  Yet  I  could  never  get  him  to  explain  to  me  what  it  meant  to  him.&quot;  &quot;We  used  to  go  to  church  fairs,&quot;  Farnham  said.  &quot;'Then  they  built  an  A-frame  parish  house  and  there  wasn't  any  church  lawn  anymore.&quot;  &quot;After  church,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;all  the  husbands  would  play  touch  football  while  we  sat  on  the  cold  grass  reading  the  damn  Sunday  paper.  Or  softball,  depending  on  the  time  of  year.  The  babies  would  keep  asking  what  inning  it  was.&quot;  &quot;God,  the  energy,&quot;  Farnham  con-  ceded,  &quot;God,  we  must  have  been  young.&quot;  He  sometimes  forgot  she  was  an  Atlantan  too.  She  too  had  seen  the  walls  of  orichalcum,  and  the  great  moat  of  which  Plato  admitted,  &quot;It  seems  incredible  that  it  should  be  so  large  as  the  account  states.&quot;  Now,  bored  with  reminiscence,  she  turned  her  blue  eyes  to  the  window,  where  they  could  see  corn.  The  Farnhams  floated  here  in  corn  like  angels  in  a  cloud-corn  planted,  corn  sprouting,  corn  greening,  corn  ripening,  corn  as  high  as  an  elephant's  eye,  corn  har-  vested,  corn  stubble.  &quot;We're  not  young  now,&quot;  she  told  him.  &quot;Your  little  girl  is  living  with  a  boyfriend  in  [REDACTED].  Your  little  boy  is  making  three  hundred  a  week  in  data  control  in  Worcester.&quot;  Farnham  stopped  himself  from  say-  ing  &quot;Incredible,&quot;  though  he  felt  it  was.  The  way  his  wife's  face  caught  the  window  light  reminded  him  of  another  woman,  who  for  a  time  he  would  visit  in  her  house  by  a  tidal  river,  and  who  in  remissions  of  their  passion  might  lightly  gaze  out  ata  passing  rowboat,  its  oars  plodding,  or  at  some  sudden  wheeling  outcry  of  gulls.  Or  else  she  was  listening,  through  the  tremble  of  elm  leaves  proximate  to  her  window,  for  a  repetition  of  a  sound  downstairs  that  made  her  fear  that  her  husband  or  children  had  returned  prematurely.  The  very  atmosphere  of  Atlantis,  in  " b"such  moments,  seemed  a  shimmering  fabric  that  might  tear.  On  the  sloping  banks  of  the  river,  dark  mud  mixed  with  granite  and  clamshells,  an  old  man  would  be  tying  a  dinghy,  or  some  children  might  be  skipping  stones,  to  the  admiration  of  a  pet  dog.  The  in-  nocence  of  the  scene  would  flood  up  to  their  windowsill,  and  tremble  through,  it  seemed  in  memory,  while  their  breathing  stopped  and  their  hearts  thundered  on.  &quot;You're  thinking  about  your  old  girlfriends,&quot;  Mrs.  Farnham  accused.  &quot;How  can  you  tell?&quot;  &quot;By  the  light  in  your  eyes.  They  get  green.&quot;  The  same  light,  sea  light,  had  trem-  bled  through  and  saturated  the  skinof  the  priestesses  as  they  lifted  on  an  el-  bow  and  listened  for  that  which  was  forbidden  to  be  discovered.  The  sacred  laws  of  Atlantis  were  written  on  gold-  en  tablets,  The  tidal  world  outside  creaked,  as  with  a  complexity  of  winches-gulls,  oarlocks,  children's  voices.  And  the  alien  corn  outside  his  window  dimmed,  became  husky,  neg-  ligible,  permeated  by  the  memory  of  Atlantis,  its  curving  waterways,  its  towering  cities,  its  endless  parties  A  whiff  of  salt  water  wakened  him  to  present  reality;  he  looked  across  the  breakfast  table  and  said,  &quot;Don't  ery.&quot;  HE  child  who  had  been  living  with  a  man  in  [REDACTED]  was  get-  ting  married,  unexpectedly,  to  another  man,  The  wedding  was  to  be  in  West-  erly.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Farnham  flew  East,  into  the  past,  against  the  course  of  the  sun,  and  rented  a  car.  The  industrial  haze,  the  crowdedness,  the  cornlessness  moved  him  keenly,  even  in  the  airport  parking  lot.  They  drove  east,  along  the  coast.  In  the  words  of  Plato:  &quot;It  was  possible  for  the  travellers  of  that  time  to  cross  from  it  to  the  other  islands,  and  from  the  islands  to  the  whole  of  the  continent  over  against  them  which  encompasses  that  veritable  ocean.&quot;  Norwalk,  Fairfield,  Milford.  On  a  high  bridge,  they  passed  above  a  river  and  a  helicopter  plant.  They  left  the  Merritt  and  drove  due  east,  along  the  rotten  coast.  New  Haven,  New  Lon-  don.  To  their  left  loomed  gray  struc-  tures  of  amphibious  intricacy,  and  Mrs.  Farnham  was  reminded  of  a  story.  &quot;You  see  that  tall  tower,  way  over?  That's  full  of  water,  and  they  use  it  to  train  people  to  get  out  of  submarines  without  panicking.  A  guy  I  once  knew,  between  Rodney  and  you,  was  a  frog-  man,  and  his  job  was  to  hang  inside  the  tower  on  a  wire  and  watch  the  guys  going  past  to  make  sure  they  were  blowing  enough  bubbles.&quot;  &quot;Going  past?&quot;  &quot;Going  up,  from  the  bottom,  where  they'd  put  you  in.  You  had  to  keep  blowing  air  out  of  your  lungs.  Other-  wise  you'd  get  an  embolism  and  die.  Some  guys  did  die.  My  friend's  assign-  ment  was,  if  you  weren't  blowing  out  enough  bubbles  he'd  grab  you.&quot;  &quot;Grab  you?&quot;  Farn-  ham  was  distracted  by  a  sign  to  Mystic.  Did  he  want  to  go  to  Mys-  tic?  Did  he  want  to  go  to  Old  Mystic?  &quot;And  pull  you  in-  to  a  kind  of  compart-  ment  until  you'd  get  up  your  nerve  and  start  blowing  out  bubbles  f  again.&quot;  |  &quot;Is  there  that  much  air  in  your  lungs?&quot;  &quot;There  is  when  you  begin  at  the  bot-  (Shirt  i  tom  of  the  sea.&quot;  &quot;I  think  I'd  panic.  This  guy,  he  must  have  been  some  guy.&quot;  &quot;He  had  his  points.&quot;  &quot;Name  some.&quot;  &quot;We  didn't  work  out,  though.&quot;  &quot;Did-how  well  did  you  know  him?&quot;  &quot;Pretty.&quot;  He  looked  over;  her  eyes  were  green.  Farnham,  heading  toward  his  daughter's  wedding,  prayed:  O  rise,  frogman,  smoothly  and  without  panic,  up  from  the  depths,  trailing  your  train  of  air;  bring  us  news  of  sunk  Atlantis,  our  fabled  pasts. "