 b"DOES  the  bodyguard  scream  at  D  the  woman  who  irons  his  shirts?  Who  has  inflicted  a  brown  burn  on  his  yellow  shirt  purchased  expen-  sively  from  Yves  Saint  Laurent?  A  great  brown  burn  just  over  the  heart?  Does  the  bodyguard's  principal  make  conversation  with  the  bodyguard,  as  they  wait  for  the  light  to  change,  in  the  dull  gray  Citro\xc3\xa9n?  With  the  second  bodyguard,  who  is  driving?  What  is  the  tone?  Does  the  bodyguard's  prin-  cipal  comment  on  the  tanned  young  women  who  flock  along  the  boulevard?  On  the  young  men?  On  the  traffic?  Has  the  bodyguard  ever  enjoyed  a  se-  rious  political  discussion  with  his  prin-  cipal?  Is  the  bodyguard  frightened  by  the  initials  D.I.T.?  Is  the  bodyguard  frightened  by  the  initials  C.N.D.?  Will  the  bodyguard  be  relieved,  today,  in  time  to  see  the  film  he  has  in  mind-&quot;Emmanuelle  Around  the  World&quot;?  If  the  bodyguard  is  relieved  in  time  to  see  &quot;Emmanuelle  Around  the  World,&quot;  will  there  be  a  queue  for  tick-  ets?  Will  there  be  students  in  the  queue?  Is  the  bodyguard  frightened  by  the  slogan  &quot;Remember  17  June&quot;?  Is  the  bodyguard  frightened  by  blackspray  paint,  tall  letters  ghostly  at  the  edges,  on  this  wall,  on  this  wall?  At  what  level  of  education  did  the  bodyguard  leave  school?  Is  the  bodyguard  sufficiently  well  paid?  Is  he  paid  as  well  as  a  machin-  ist?  As  well  as  a  foreman?  As  well  as  an  army  sergeant?  As  well  as  a  lieu-  tenant?  Is  the  Citro\xc3\xa9n  armored?  Is  the  Mercedes  armored?  What  is  the  best  speed  of  the  Mercedes?  Can  it  equal  thatof  a  BMW?  A  BMW  motorcycle?  Several  BMW  motor-  cycles?  Does  the  bodyguard  gauge  the  im-  portance  of  his  principal  in  terms  of  the  number  of  bodyguards  he  requires?  Should  there  not  be  other  cars  leading  and  following  his  principal's  car,  these  also  filled  with  bodyguards?  Are  there  sometimes  such  additional  precautions,  and  does  the  bodyguard,  at  these  times,  feel  himself  part  of  an  ocean  of  body-  guards?  Is  he  exalted  at  these  times?  Does  he  wish  for  even  more  body-  guards,  possibly  flanking  cars  to  the  left  and  right  and  a  point  car  far,  far  ahead?  After  leaving  technical  school,  in  what  sort  of  enterprises  did  the  body-  guard  engage  before  accepting  his  pres-  ent  post?  Has  he  ever  been  in  jail?  For  what  sort  of  offense?  Has  the  body-  guard  acquired  a  fondness  for  his  prin-  cipal?  Is  there  mutual  respect?  Is  there  mutual  contempt?  When  his  principal  takes  tea,  is  the  bodyguard  offered  tea?  Beer?  Who  pays?  Can  the  bodyguard  adduce  instances  of  professional  success?  Had  he  a  previous  client?  Is  there  a  new  bodyguard  in  the  group  of  bodyguards?  Why?  How  much  does  pleasing  matter?  What  services  does  the  bodyguard  pro-  vide  for  his  principal  other  than  the  primary  one?  Are  there  services  he  should  not  be  asked  to  perform?  Is  he  nevertheless  asked,  from  time  to  time,  to  perform  such  services?  Does  he  re-  fuse?  Can  he  refuse?  Are  there,  in  addition  to  the  bodyguard's  agreed-  upon  compensation,  tips!  Of  what  size?  On  what  occasions?  In  the  restaurant,  a  good  table  for  his  principal  and  the  distinguished  gray  man  with  whom  he  is  conferring.  Be-  fore  it  (between  the  table  with  the  two  principals  and  the  door)  a  table  for  the  four  bodyguards.  What  is  the  quality  of  the  conversation  between  the  two  sets  of  bodyguards?  What  do  they  talk  about?  Soccer,  perhaps.  [REDACTED]  vs.  50657275,  a  match  that  they  have  all  seen.  Do  they  rehearse  the  savaging  of  the  Dutch  goalkeeper  Piet  Schrijvers  by  the  sordid  50657275vian?  Do  they  discuss  Schrijvers'  replacement  by  the  brave  Jan  Jongbloed,  and  what  happened  next?  Has  the  bodyguard  noted  the  difference  in  quality  between  his  suit  and  that  of  his  principal?  Between  his  shoes  and  those  of  his  principal?  In  every  part  of  the  country,  in  large  cities  and  small  towns,  bottles  of  cham-  pagne  have  been  iced,  put  away,  re-  served  for  a  celebration,  reserved  for  a  special  day.  Is  the  bodyguard  aware  of  this?  Is  the  bodyguard  tired  of  waking,  in  his  small  room  on  the  Calle  Caspe,  smoking  a  Royale  Filtre,  then  getting  out  of  bed  and  throwing  wide  the  cur-  tains  to  discover,  again,  eight  people  standing  at  the  bus  stop  across  the  street,  in  postures  of  depression?  Is  there,  on  the  wall  of  the  bodyguard's  small  room,  a  poster  showing  Bruce  Lee  in  a  white  robe  with  his  feet  posi-  tioned  in  such-and-such  a  way,  his  fin-  gers  outstretched  in  such-and-such  a  way?  Is  there  a  rosary  made  of  apple  beads  hanging  from  a  nail?  Is  there  " b"a  mirror  whose  edges  have  begun  to  craze  and  flake,  and  are  there  small  blurrish  Polaroids  stuck  along  the  left  edge  of  the  mirror,  Polaroids  of  a  woman  in  a  dark  blue  scarf  and  two  lean  children  in  red  pants?  Is  there  a  pair  of  dark-  blue  trousers  plus  a  long-  sleeved  white  shirt  (worn  once  already)  hanging  in  the  dark-brown  wardrobe?  Is  there  a  color  foldout  of  a  naked  young  woman  torn  from  the  magazine  VIR  taped  inside  the  wardrobe  door?  Is  therea  bottle  of  Long  John  Scotch  atop  the  cheese-colored  mini-  refrigerator?  A  two-burn-  er  hot  plate?  Dull  green  ceramic  pot  on  the  win-  dowsill  containing  an  un-  healthy  plant?  A  copy  of  &quot;Explication  du  Tai  Chi,&quot;  by  Bruce  Tegner?  Does  the  bodyguard  read  the  newspaper  of  his  princi-  pal's  party?  Is  he  persuad-  ed  by  what  he  reads  there?  Does  the  bodyguard  know  which  of  the  great  blocs  his  country  aligned  itself  with  during  the  Second  World  War?  During  the  First  World  War?  Does  the  bodyguard  know  which  countries  arethe  pre\xc3\xa9minent  trading  partners  of  his  own  country,  at  the  present  time?  Seated  in  a  restaurant  with  his  prin-  cipal,  the  bodyguard  is  served,  invol-  untarily,  turtle  soup.  Does  he  recoil,  as  the  other  eats?  Why  is  this  near-skele-  ton,  his  principal,  of  such  importance  to  the  world  that  he  deserves  six  body-  guards,  two  to  a  shift  with  the  shifts  changing  every  eight  hours,  six  body-  guards  of  the  first  competence  plus  sup-  plementals  on  occasion,  two  armored  cars,  stun  grenades  ready  to  hand  under  the  front  seat?  What  has  he  meant  to  the  world?  What  are  his  plans?  Is  the  retirement  age  for  bodyguards  calculated  as  it  is  for  other  citizens?  Is  it  earlier,  fifty-five,  forty-five?  Is  there  a  pension?  In  what  amount?  Thoseyoung  men  with  dark  beards  staring  at  the  Mercedes,  or  staring  at  the  Citro\xc3\xa9n,  who  are  they?  Does  the  bodyguard  payheed  to  the  complaints  of  his  fellow-bodyguards,  about  the  hours  spent  waiting  outside  this  or  that  Ministry,  this  or  that  Headquarters,  hours  spent  propped  against  the  fenders  of  the  Mercedes  while  their  principal  is  within  the  (secure)  walls?  Is  the  thick  glass  of  these  specially  prepared vehicles  thick  enough?  Are  his  fellow-  bodyguards  reliable?  Is  the  new  one  reliable?  Is  the  bodyguard  frightened  by  young  women  of  good  family?  Young  women  of  good  family  whose  handbags  contain  God  knows  what'  Does  the  bodyguard  feel  that  the  situation  is  un-  fair?  Will  the  son  of  the  bodyguard,  living  with  his  mother  ina  faraway  city,  himself  become  a  bodyguard?  When  the  bodyguard  delivers  the  son  of  his  principal  to  the  school  where  all  of  the  children  are  delivered  by  body-  guards,  does  he  stop  at  a  grocer's  on  the  way  and  buy  the  child  a  peach?  Does  he  buy  himself  a  peach?  Will  the  bodyguard,  if  tested,  be  equal  to  his  task?  Does  the  bodyguard  know  which  foreign  concern  was  the  successful  bidder  for  the  construction  of  his  country's  nuclear  reprocessing  plant?  Does  the  bodyguard  know  which  sections  of  the  National  Bank's  half-yearly  report  on  debt  service  have  been  falsified?  Does  the  bodyguard  know  that  the  general  amnesty  of  April  coincided  with  the  rearrestof  sixty  persons?  Does  the  bodyguard  know  that  the  new,  liberalized  press  laws  of  May  are  a  provocation?  Does  the  bodyguard  patronize  a  restau-  rant  called  the  Crocodile?  A  place  packed  with  young,  loud,  fat  Commu-  nists?  Does  he  spill  a  drink,  to  disclose  hisspite?  Is  his  gesture  understood?  Are  the  streets  full  of  stilt-walkers?  Stilt-walkers  weaving  ten  feet  above  the  crowd  in  great  papier-m@ch\xc3\xa9  bird  heads,  black  and  red  costumes,  whip-  ping  thirty  feet  of  colored  cloth  above  the  heads  of  the  crowd,  miming  the  rape  of  a  young  female  personage  sym-  bolizing  his  country?  In  the  Mercedes,  the  bodyguard  and  his  colleague  stare  at  the  hundreds,  men  and  women,  young  and  old,  who  move  around  the  Mercedes,  stopped  for  a  light,  as  ifit  were  a  rock  in  a  river.  In  the  rear  seat,  the  patron  is  speaking  intoa  telephone.  He  looks  up,  puts  down  the  telephone.  The  people  pressing  around  the  car  cannot  be  counted,  there  are  too  many  of  them;  they  cannot  be  known,  there  are  too  many  of  them;  they  cannot  be  predicted,  they  have  volition.  Then,  an  opening.  The  car  accelerates.  Is  it  the  case  that,  on  a  certain  morning,  the  garbage  cans  of  the  city,  the  garbage  cans  of  the  entire  country,  are  overflowing  with  empty  champagne  bottles?  Which  bodyguard  is  at  fault? "