 b"GRUPPENF\xc3\x9cHRER  Louis XVI&quot;  is  the  fiction  d\xc3\xa9but  of  Alfred  Zellermann,  a  well-known  literary  historian  and  a  doctor  of  an-  thropology.  Zellermann,  now  nearly  six-  ty  years  old,  spent  the  regnuum  Hitler-  tanum  in  [REDACTED]-in  the  country,  with  his  wife's  parents-after  being  re-  lieved  of  his  university  position.  He  was  therefore  a  passive  observer  ofthe  life  of  the  Third  Reich.  I  venture  to  call  this  novel  an  excellent  work,  and  add  that  probablyonly  such  a  German,  with  such  a  wealth  of  practical  experience-  and  with  such  theoretical  knowledge  of  literature!  -could  have  written  it.  Despite  the  title,  this  is  no  work  of  fantasy  we  have  before  us.  The  set-  ting  is  [REDACTED]  in  the  first  decade  after  the  conclusion  of  the  war.  The  fifty-year-old  Gruppenfithrer  Siegfried  Taudlitz,  a  fugitive  from  the  crushed  and  occupied  Reich,  makes  his  way  to  South  [REDACTED],  carrying  with  him  a  part  ofthe  treasure  amassed  by  the  notorious  Academy  (AAmemerbe)  of  the  S.S.-a  trunk  bound  with  bands  of  steel  and  filled  with  556e6974656420537461746573n  dollars.  Gathering  about  him  a  group  of  other  fugitives  from  [REDACTED],  including  var-  ious  drifters  and  adventurers,  and,  moreover,  having  taken  on  a  dozen  or  so  women  of  doubtful  character  for  services  for  the  time  being  unspecified  (some  of  these  women  Taudlitz  him-  self  buys  out  of  brothels  in  Rio  de  Janeiro),  the  former  S.S.  general  or-  ganizes  an  expedition  deep  into  the  Argentine  interior-all  this  with  a  skill  that  reveals  his  talents  as  a  staff  officer.  In  a  region  several  hundred  miles  removed  from  the  last  outposts  of  civilization,  the  expedition  comes  upon  ruins  that  are  at  least  six  centuries  old-ruins  of  buildings  raised,  in  all  likelihood,  by  the  Incas.  The  expedi-  tion  takes  up  residence  in  these  build-  ings.  Drawn  by  the  possibility  of  earn-  ing  money,  Indians  and  mestizos  from  the  area  show  up  at  the  site,  which  is  named  by  Taudlitz,  for  reasons  not  immediately  disclosed,  4672616e6365ia,  The  former  Gruppenfiihrer  makes  of  the  natives  efficient  work  brigades  and  sets  his  armed  men  over  them  as  task-  masters.  Several  years  pass,  and  the  shape  of  the  realm  that  Taudlitz  has  envisioned  for  himself  gradually  emerges.  His  addled  idea  is  to  re-  create-in  the  heart  of  the  jungle-the  French  state  in  its  heyday  of  mon-  archical  splendor,  and  he  himself  is  to  be  the  reincarnation  of  none  other  than  Louis  XVI.  An  aside  here.  The  above  does  not  summarize  the  novel,  nor  does  what  follows,  for  the  progression  of  theac-  tion  in  the  book  does  not  conform  to  any  calendar  chronology.  I  am  well  aware  of  those  demands  of  artistic  composition  which  governed  the  au-  thor;  however,  I  wish  to  reconstruct  the  train  of  events  in  chronicle  fashion,  so  that  the  central  concept,  the  idea  of  the  work,  will  stand  out  clearly  and  with  force.  At  the  same  time,  I  will  be  passing  over,  in  my  &quot;chronologized&quot;  recapitulation  of  the  work,  amultitude  of  side  issues  and  minor  episodes,  be-  cause  it  is  plainly  impossible  to  contain  in  any  capsule  form  a  whole  when  that  whole  runs  to  two  volumes  of  over  six  hundred  and  seventy  pages.  But  I  will  also  attempt  to  deal  with  the  sequence  of  events  as  Zellermann  presents  them  in  his  epic.  Thus  is  created-to  return  to  the  story-a  royal  court,  with  a  hostof  courtiers,  knights,  clergy,  and  lackeys.  The  venerable  Incan  ruins,  their  rub-  ble  rebuilt  in  a  manner  architecturally  absurd,  are  transformed  into  a  palace  chapel,  ballrooms,  and  fortress  battle-  ments.  Having  at  his  side  three  men  blindly  loyal  to  him-Hans  Mehrer,  Johann  Wieland,  and  Erich  Palatzky  (soon  they  become  Cardinal  Richelieu,  the  Duc  de  Rohan,  and  the  Duc  de  Montbazon)-the  &quot;new  Louis&quot;  man-  ages  not  only  to  maintain  himself  on  his  bogus  throne  but  to  shape  the  life  going  on  around  him  in  accordance  with  his  own  designs.  At  the  same  time-and  this  is  important  in  the  nov-  el-the  historical  knowledge  of  the  former  Gruppenfithrer  is  fragmentary  at  best.  One  can  hardly  say  he  possesses  such  knowledge  at  all;  his  head  is  filled  not  so  much  with  bits  and  pieces  of  the  history  of  [REDACTED]  as  with  tripe  re-  membered  from  his  boyhood  days,  when  he  would  lose  himself  in  the  adventures  of  Dumas,  beginning  with  &quot;'The  Three  Musketeers,&quot;  and  from  later,  when,  as  an  adolescent  with  &quot;monarchistic'  leanings  (that  is  what  he  called  them;  in  fact  they  were  merely  sadistic),  he  would  pore  over  the  books  of  Karl  May.  And  since  on  to  this  reading  there  afterward  were  added  cheap  romances,  voraciously  de-  voured,  it  is  not  the  history  of  [REDACTED]  that  he  is  able  to  bring  to  life  buta  potboiler  version,  primitive  and  imbe-  cilic,  which  in  his  mind  stands  for  that  history,  and  which  becomes  for  him  a  profession  of  faith.  Actually,  as  faras  one  can  gather  from  the  numerous  details  and  refer-  ences  scattered  throughout  the  work,  Hitlerism  was  for  Taudlitz  only  a  choiceof  necessity-the  alternative  that  most  suited  his  monarchistic  fan-  tasies.  Hitlerism,  in  his  eyes,  came  close-granted,  not  half  so  close  as  he  would  have  liked-to  the  Middle  Ages.  In  any  event,  it  was  more  wel-  come  than  any  form  of  institutional  democracy.  Because  he  had  his  own  secret  &quot;dream  of  the  crown&quot;  during  the  Third  Reich,  Taudlitz  never  suc-  cumbed  to  Hitler's  magnetism;  he  never  believed  in  Hitler,  and  for  this  reason  did  not  feel  obliged  to  mourn  the  fall  of  &quot;Great  [REDACTED].&quot;  Instead,  having  wit  enough  to  see  it  coming,  particularly  since  he  had  never  iden-  tified  himself  with  the  \xc3\xa9lite  of  the  Third  Reich  (though  he  belonged  to  it),  he  prepared  himself  for  the  disaster  appropriately.  Taudlitz's  public  adora-  tion  of  Hitler  was  not  even  the  product  of  self-deception;  for  ten  years  he  played  a  cynical  comedy,  because  he  had  his  own  myth,  which  gave  him  a  resistance  to  Hitler's.  This  proved  especially  convenient  for  him:  unlike  those  disciples  of  &quot;Mein  Kampf&quot;  who  at  the  beginning  made  an  attempt  to  take  the  doctrine  seriously  and-as  in  the  case  of  Albert  Speer-felt  them-  selves  alienated  from  Hitler  later  on,  Taudlitz,  as  a  man  who  only  outward-  ly  professed  each  day  the  views  pre-  scribed  for  that  day,  was  immune  to  the  disease  of  heresy.  Taudlitz  has  implicit  faith  only  in  the  power  of  money  and  force;  he  knows  that  with  material  goods  people  can  be  persuaded  to  go  along  with  any  plan  ofa  sufficiently  openhanded  master,  provided  that  the  master  be  also  duly  resolute  and  uncompromising  in  the  carrying  out  of  commitments  once  they  are  made.  He  doesnot  in  the  least  trou-  ble  himself  about  whether  his  &quot;court-  iers&quot;-that  many-coloredthrong  made  up  of  Germans,  Indians,  mestizos,  and  Portuguese-really  take  seriously  the  vast  spectacle  imposed  on  them  over  many  years.  He  hasstaged  it  in  a  man-  ner  that  would  be,  to  an  outside  ob-  server,  unspeakably  insipid,  uninspired,  " b"and  crass,  but  whether  the  actors  be-  lieve  in  the  reasonableness  of  the  court  of  the  Louis  or  are  instead  only  play-  ing  a  comedy  and  reckoning  on  the  payment  (and  also  possibly  on  making  off  with  the  King's  bundle  after  his  death)  does  not  appear  to  matter  to  Taudlitz.  The  life  of  the  court  community  is  so  patent  a  forgery,  and  a  clumsy  one  at  that-it  is  such  a  piece  of  un-  authenticity-that  at  least  the  more  clearheaded  of  the  people  (those  who  come  later  to  4672616e6365ia,  as  well  as  all  who  with  their  own  eyes  have  seen  the  origi-  nation  of  the  pseudo-monarch  and  the  pseudo-princes)  cannot,  even  for  a  minute,  have  any  doubt  about  its  phoni-  ness.  And  therefore,  particularly  in  its  early  days,  the  kingdom  resembles  a  man  with  a  split  personality:  the  char-  acters  speak  one  way  at  the  palace  audi-  ences  and  balls,  especially  in  the  vicinity  of  Taudlitz,  and  quite  another  way  in  the  absence  of  the  monarch  and  his  three  confidants,  who  insure  in  a  most  ruthless  manner  the  continuation  of  the  game.  It  is  a  game  decked  out  in  rare  splendor,  bathed  in  a  glitter  that  becomes  quite  genuine,  for  in  the  space  of  twenty  months  a  stream  of  caravan  supplies,  paid  for  withhard  currency,  raises  castle  walls,  covers  them  with  frescoes  and  Gobelins,  dresses  the  par-  quet  floors  with  elegant  carpeting,  sets  out  endless  pieces  of  furniture,  mirrors,  gilt  clocks,  and  commodes,  builds  secret  doors  and  hiding  places  in  the  walls,  alcoves,  pergolas,  and  terraces,  and  encircles  the  castle  with  an  enor-  mous,  magnificent  park,  and-beyond  the  park-with  a  palisade  and  a  most.  The  German  overseers,  who  keep  the  Indian  slaves  in  line  (it  is  by  Indian  sweat  and  toil  that  the  artificial  king-  dom  comes  into  being),  walk  attired  like  medieval  knights,  but  each  wears  on  his  gold  belt  a  military  handgun  of  the  make  Parabellum,  the  final  argu-  ment  in  all  disputes  between  feudal  capital  and  labor.  The  monarch  and  his  confidants  slowly  and  systematically  eliminate  from  their  surroundings  every  mani-  festation,  every  sign  of  the  fictitiousness  of  the  court  and  the  kingdom.  For  in-  stance,  a  special  idiom  comes  into  use.  In  it  may  be  couched  any  news  that  makes  its  way-roundabout,  to  be  sure-in  from  the  outside  world,  such  as  the  possibility  of  the  &quot;nation&quot;&quot;  's  being  threatened  by  intervention  on  the  part  of  the  Argentine  government;  the  high  officials  who  convey  such  tidings  to  the  King  dare  not  lay  bare-that  is,  state  point-blank-the  unsovereignty  of  the  monarch  and  the  throne.  Thus,  Argen-  tina  is  always  called  &quot;537061696e,&quot;  and  is  treated  as  a  neighboring  country.  Gradually,  the  courtiers  become  so  Parag  much  at  home  inside  their  artificial  skins  and  learn  to  move  about  in  splen-  did  robes  so  naturally-to  wield  the  sword  and  the  tongue  with  such  ad-  dress-that  the  lie  sinks  deeper,  into  the  very  warp  and  woof  of  this  fabric,  this  living  picture.  The  picture  remains  a  humbug,  but  a  humbug  that  now  throbs  with  the  blood  of  authentic  de-  sires,  hatreds,  quarrels,  and  rivalries;  at  the  unreal  court  are  hatched  real  intrigues,  and  courtiers  strive  to  undo  other  courtiers,to  draw  nearer  the  throne  over  the  bodies  of  their  col-  leagues,  to  receive  from  the  hands  of  the  King  the  high  ranks  and  honors  of  those  toppled.  The  innuendo,  the  cup  of  poison,  the  informer's  whisper,  and  the  dagger  begin  their  hidden  but  al-  together  real  work,  yet  only  so  much  of  the  monarchistic  and  feudal  element  continues  to  inhere  in  this  work  as  Taudlitz,  the  new  Louis  XVI,  is  able  to  breathe  into  it  from  his  own  dream  of  absolute  power-a  dream  drama-  tized  by  a  pack  of  former  S.S.  men.  TAUDLITZ  believes  that  somewhere  in  [REDACTED]  lives  his  nephew,  the  last  of  his  family-Bertrand  Gillsen-  hirn,  whose  age  was  thirteen  at  the  time  of  the  fall  of  [REDACTED].  To  seek  out  this  youth,  now  twenty-one,  Louis  XVI  sends  the  Duc  de  Rohan  (Johann  Wieland),  the  only  &quot;intellectual&quot;  " b"among  his  men.  (Wieland  was  a  physician  in  the  Waffen-S.S.  and  car-  ried  out,  in  the  camp  at  Mauthausen,  &quot;scientific  studies.&quot;)  The  scene  where  the  King  entrusts  the  Duc  with  the  secret  mission-to  find  the  lad  and  bring  him  to  the  court  as  the  Dau-  phin-is  among  the  finest  in  the  novel.  First,  the  monarch  is  gracious  enough  to  explain  how  he  is  much  troubled  by  his  own  childlessness,  out  of  considera-  tion  for  the  good  of  the  throne-that  is,  the  succession.  These  opening  phrases  help  him  continue  in  this  vein;  the  bizarre  savor  of  the  scene  lies  in  the  fact  that  at  this  point  the  King  cannot  admit  even  to  himself  that  he  is  not  a  real  king.  He  does  not  know  French,  but,  employing  German,  which  prevails  at  court,  he  maintains,  as,  indeed,  must  everyone  else,  that  it  is  French-eight-  eenth-century  French.  This  is  not  madness;  madness  would  be  to  admit  to  Germanness,  even  if  only  in  language,  for  [REDACTED]  does  not  ex-  ist,  inasmuch  as  [REDACTED]'s  only  neighbor  is  537061696e  (that  is,  [REDACTED]).  Whoever  dares  utter  something  in  German,  let-  ting  it  be  understood  that  he  is  speak-  ing  German,  stands  in  peril  of  his  life;  from  a  conversation  between  the  Arch-  bishop  of  [REDACTED]  and  the  Duc  de  Sa-  lignac  (Vol.  I,  p.  311),  it  may  be  in-  ferred  that  the  Prince  of  Chartreuse,  beheaded  for  &quot;high  treason,&quot;  had  in  reality  drunkenly  called  the  palace  not  simply  a  &quot;whorehouse&quot;  but  a  &quot;Ger-  man  whorehouse.&quot;  An  additional  note:   The  abundance  of  French  names  in  the  novel  which  bear  a  strikingsimilar-  ity  to  the  names  of  cognacs  and  wines-take,  for  example,  the  Marquis  Chiateauneuf-du-Pape,  who  is  the  mas-  ter  of  revels-undoubtedly  derives  from  the  fact  (though  nowhere  does  the  author  say  this)  that  in  the  brain  of  Taudlitz  there  are,  for  readily  under-  standable  reasons,  far  more  names  of  liquors  and  liqueurs  than  names  of  the  French  aristocracy.  In  addressing  his  emissary,  then,  Taudlitz  speaks  as  he  imagines  King  Louis  might  speak  to  a  trusted  agent  being  sent  on  such  a  mission.  He  does  not  tell  Monsieur  le  Duc  to  put  aside  his  sham  apparel  but  to  &quot;disguise  him-  self  as  an  Englishman  or  Dutch-  man&quot;-which  simply  means  to  try  for  a  normal,  up-to-date  appearance.  &quot;Up-  to-date,&quot;  however,  is  one  of  those  for-  bidden  expressions  that,  if  uttered,  would  dangerously  weaken  the  fiction  of  the  kingdom.  Provided  with  a  considerable  amount  of  cash,  Wieland  goes  to  Rio,  where  the  commercial  agent  of  the  court  op-  erates;  after  acquiring  convincing  forged  identity  papers,  Taudlitz's  emis-  sary  sails  for  Europe.  The  peregrina-  tions  of  his  search  the  book  passes  over  in  silence.  We  know  only  that  they  are  crowned  with  success  after  eleven  months;  in  fact,  the  novel  opens  with  the  second  conversation  between  Wie-  land  and  the  young  Giilsenhirn,  who  is  working  as  a  waiter  in  a  large  Ham-burg  hotel.  Bertrand  (he  will  be  allowed  to  keep  the  name:  it  has,  in  the  opinion  of  Taudlitz,  a  good  ring)  at  first  hears  only  of  his  millionaire  uncle  who  is  prepared  to  adopt  him  as  a  son,  and  this  is  reason    enough  to  leave  his  job  and  go  off  with  Wieland.  The  journey  of  the  curious  pair  serves  as  an  introduc-  tion  to  the  novel,  and  it  ful-  fills  this  function  brilliantly.  It  is  a  forward  progress  in  space  and  simultaneously  a  retreat  back  in  time:  the  travellers  change  from  a  transcontinental  jet  to  a  train,  then  to  an  automo-  bile,  from  the  automobile  to  a  horse-drawn  wagon,  and,  finally,  for  the  last  hundred  and  forty-five  miles,  to  horseback.  As  Bertrand's  clothes  wear  out  piece  by  piece,  his  spare  things  vanish,  and  in  their  place  appear  archaic  garments,  providently  supplied  and  laid  outby  Wieland,  who  is  meanwhile  turning  back  into  the  Duc  de  Rohan.  This  metamorphosis  is  by  no  means  Machiavellian;  it  takes  place,  from  stopping  point  to  stopping  point,  with  strange  simplicity.  One  gathers  (lat-  er  on,  this  is  confirmed)  that  Wie-  land  has  gone  through  similar  cos-  tume  changes  numerous  times  as  the  factotum  envoy  of  Taudlitz.  And  so  while  Wieland,  who  embarked  for  Eu-  rope  as  Mr.  Heinz  Karl  Miller,  be-  comes  the  armed  and  mounted  Duc  de  Rohan,  Bertrand  undergoes-at  least  externally-an  analogous  transforma-  tion.  Bertrand  is  flabbergasted,  stupefied.  He  is  going  to  his  uncle,  the  owner-  so  he  has  been  informed-of  a  vast  estate,  He  forsook  the  life  of  a  waiter  to  become  heir  to  millions,  and  now  they  lead  him  into  the  circle  of  some  costume  comedy  or  farce  that  he  cannot  comprehend.  The  instructions  that  Wieland-Miiller-de  Rohan  gives  him  on  the  way  serve  only  to  increase  the  muddle  in  his  head.  Sometimes  it  seems  to  him  that  his  companion  is  merely  pulling  his  leg,  sometimes  that  he  is  leading  him  to  his  doom  or  that  he-Bertrand-is  being  let  in  onsome  unimaginable  skulduggery  whose  entirety  cannot  be  revealed  all  at  once.  There  are  moments  in  which  he  feels  he  has  gone  mad.  The  instruc-  tions,  of  course,  never  call  a  thing  by  its  name;  this  instinctive  wisdom  is  " b"the  common  property  of  the  court.  De  Rohan  tells  him,  &quot;You  must  ob-  serve  the  formalities  your  uncle  re-  quires.&quot;  (&quot;Your  uncle,&quot;  then  &quot;His  Lordship,&quot;  and  finally  &quot;His  High-  ness.&quot;)  &quot;His  name  is  Louis,  not  Sieg-  fried;  it  is  not  permitted  ever  to  say  the  latter.  He  has  put  it  aside-such  is  his  will!&quot;  declares  Miller,  becoming  le  Duc.  &quot;His  estate&quot;  is  altered  to  &quot;his  latifundium,&quot;  and  that  to  &quot;his  realm.&quot;  Thus,  little  by  little,  Bertrand-during  the  long  days  in  the  saddle,  riding  through  the  jungle,  and  then,  in  the  final  hours,  which  he  spends  in  a  gilded  sedan  chair  borne  by  eight  naked,  mus-  cular  mestizos,  from  whose  window  he  observes  a  retinue  of  mounted  knights  in  casques-is  convinced  of  the  sincerity  of  the  words  of  his  enig-  matic  companion.So  he  shiftshis  sus-  picions  of  insanity  from  himself  to  the  companion,  and  now  places  all  his  hope  on  the  meeting  with  his  uncle,  whom  he  hardly  remembers.  (He  was  nine  years  old  when  he  sawhim  last.)  But  the  meeting  turns  out  to  be  the  center  of  a  magnificent,  impressive  cel-  ebration,  which  represents  an  amalgam  of  all  the  ceremonies,  rituals,  and  cus-  toms  Taudlitz  was  able  to  recall.  The  choir  sings,  fanfares  are  played,  and  the  King  enters  in  his  crown  aft-  erthe  footmen  cry  &quot;The  King!  The  King!&quot;  as  they  open  the  carved  double  doors.  Taudlitz  is  sur-  rounded  by  twelve  &quot;Peers  of  the  Realm&quot;  (whom  he  borrowed  by  error,  from  the  wrong  source),  and  the  sub-  lime  moment  arrives.  Louis  greets  his  nephew  with  the  sign  of  the  cross,  names  him  his  Dauphin,  and  permits  him  to  kiss  his  ring,  his  hand,  and  his  scep-tre.  When  they  are  final-ly  alone  together,  at  breakfast,  at  which  they  are  waited  on  by  Indi-  ans  in  tails,  with  a  marvellous  panorama  spread  out  before  them  from  the  heights  ofthe  castle  down  to  the  park  and  its  sparkling,  spout-  ing  rows  of  fountains,  Bertrand,  looking  upon  that  splendor,  and  again  upon  the  distant  belt  of  jungle  that  surrounds  the  entire  estate,  with  its  glimmering  of  cruel  green,  simply  cannot  find  the  courage  to  ask  his  uncle  anything,  and  when  the  latter  gently  admonishes  him  to  speak,  Bertrand  begins,  &quot;Your  Maj-  esty.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  that  is  the  way....  Higher  reasons  require  it.  ...  My  welfare  lies  in  this,  and  yours,&quot;  the  former  S.S.  Gruppenfiihrer  who  wears  a  crown  kindly  says  to  him.  HE  unusualness  of  this  book  stems  from  the  fact  that  it  unites  ele-  mentswhich  would  appear  to  be  total-  ly  irreconcilable.  Something  is  either  authentic  or  it  is  unauthentic,  it  is  either  false  or  true,  a  make-believe  or  spontaneous  life.  Yet  here  we  are  faced  with  a  prevaricated  truth  and  an  au-  thentic  fake,  hence  a  thing  that  is  at  one  and  the  same  time  the  truth  and  a  lie.  If  the  courtiers  of  old  Taudlitz  merely  played  their  roles,  stammering  out  their  conned  lines,  we  would  have  before  us  a  lifeless  puppet  pageant.  But  they  assimilate  the  form,  each  in  his  own  way  growing  into  it;  they  become  so  at  home  with  it  over  the  years  that  when  shortly  after  Bertrand's  arrival  they  begin  conspiring  against  Taudlitz,  they  are  unable  to  shake  off  the  im-  posed  patterns  entirely.  Thus,  the  con-  spiracy  itself  is  also  a  grotesque  galli-  maufry  of  styles,  like  a  layer  cake  with  jelly,  lumps  of  dough,  macaroni,  and  the  corpses  of  mice  that  have  choked  to  death  on  the  nuts.  For  it  was  an  authentic  passion,  an  honest  lust  for  ruling,  that  the  Gruppenfiihrer  clothed  in  a  conglomeration  of  garbled  mem-  ories  pertaining  to  the  history  of  the  French  Louis-a  history  taken  third  hand  from  penny  dreadfuls  and  dime  novels,  At  the  beginning  he  did  not  in-  sist  on  obedience  to  his  mania-for  he  could  not-but  simply  paid  for  it,  and  during  that  time  he  had  to  pretend  not  to  hear  what  the  former  chauffeurs,  noncoms,  and  sentries  of  the  S.S.  were  saying  about  him,  and  about  the  whole  &quot;production,&quot;&quot;  behind  his  back.  He  pos-  sessed  sense  enough  to  bear  it  all  pa-  tiently,  until  the  moment  when  finally  it  became  easy  for  him  to  achieve  dis-  cipline  through  fear,  compulsion,  and  torture.  (This  primitive  phase-in  a  manner  of  speaking,  the  prehistory  of  the  kingdom-is  in  the  novel  shown  only  through  snatches  of  incidental  conversation  ;  it  should  be  kept  in  mind  that  for  such  references  to  the  past  " b"the  courtiers  can  pay  dearly.  The  ac-  tion,  remember,  begins  in  Europe,  when  an  unknown  emissary  wins  the  confi-  dence  of  the  young  waiter  Bertrand  ;  in-  deed,  it  is  only  in  the  second  half  of  the  novel  that  the  narrative  allows  us  to  figure  out  what,  until  then,  we  have  been  struggling  in  vain  to  reconstruct.)  Obviously,  to  have  former  M.P.s,  camp  guards,  camp  doctors,  and  the  drivers  and  the  gunners  of  the  S.S.  Panzer  Division  Grossdeutschland  as  nobles,  priests,  and  members  of  the  court  of  Louis  XVI  is  as  ghastly  and  insane  ahash,a  mismatching  of  roles,  as  ever  there  could  be.  On  the  other  hand,  they  are  not  so  much  playing  well-defined  roles  poorly-for  such  roles  never  existed-as  they  are  doing  their  best,  in  their  own  way  (often  moronic),  to  cope  with  a  difficult  task,  since  they  can  do  nothing  else.  That  which  was  false  in  its  very  inception  is  now  played  by  them  falsely  and  dully.  The  result  should  therefore  be  a  mis-  cellany  that  turns  the  book  into  a  pile  of  nonsense.  However,  it  is  not  that  way  at  all.  Those  Hitlerite  butchers  may  once  have  felt  ridiculous  wrig-  gling  into  the  cardinal's  scarlet,  the  " b"bishop's  violet,  and  gilt  plates  of  armor,  but  eventually  they  feel  less  ridiculous.  For  it  is  amusing  to  take  prostitutes  from  seaport  brothels,  in  the  case  of  the  secularlords  renaming  them  con-  sorts,  and  in  the  case  of  the  priesthood  countess-concubines.  And  these  roles  capture  the  fancy  of  the  prostitutes  themselves.  Immersed  in  spurious  state-  liness,  they  luxuriate  and  put  on  airs.  At  the  same  time  they  try  to  &quot;im-  prove&quot;  themselves,  emulating  whatever  ideal  of  the  great  lady  they  are  capable  of  imagining.  The  passages  of  the  novel  where  these  thugs  in  ecclesiastical  hats  and  lace  throat  ruffles  are  given  the  floor  are  truly  incredible  exhibitions  of  the  author's  psychological  skill.  The  wretches  derive  from  their  positions  a  pleasure  alien  to  true  aristocrats,  for  it  is  enhanced  by  what  might  be  most  simply  described  as  an  ennobling  or  outright  legalizing  of  crime.  A  scoun-  drel  consumes  the  fruits  of  evil  with  the  greatest  delight  when  hedoes  so  in  the  majesty  of  the  law;  the  pro-  fessionals  in  concentration-camp  sadism  are  provided  a  distinct  satisfaction  by  the  possibility  of  repeating  the  old  prac-  tices  in  the  aura  and  glory  of  the  court's  splendor,  in  its  light,  which  seems  to  intensify  every  filthy  act.  It  is  for  this  reason  that  while  doing  dis-  graceful  things  they  all  try,  at  least  in  their  speech,  not  to  step  out  of  char-  acter,  out  of  the  bishop's  or  the  prince's  role.  Thus,  the  slow-witted  among  them-such  as  Mehrer-envy  the  Duc  de  Rohan,  who  is  able  with  such  finesse  to  justify  his  weakness  for  torturing  Indian  children  that  he  has  made  of  the  activity  a  thing  altogether  &quot;court-  ly&quot;  and  comme  il  faut.  We  can  understand,  too,  Wieland's  (the  Duc  de  Rohan's)  exertions  to  obtain  the  hat  of  cardinal:  it  will  al-  low  him  to  play  his  degenerate  little  games  not  only  as  a  member  of  the  court  but  as  one  of  God's  vicars  on  earth.  But  Taudlitz,  as  if  aware  of  the  depth  of  villainy  that  lies  behind  this  ambition  of  Wieland's,  denies  him  the  privilege;  he  does  not  wish  to  be  re-  minded,  in  his  present  eminence,  of  the  old  days  of  the  Schutzstaffel.  Taudlitz  has  &quot;another  dream,  an-  other  myth&quot;&quot;-he  craves  the  royal  pur-  ple  in  earnest,  and  therefore  he  spurns  with  genuine  indignation  the  Wieland  method  of  exploiting  the  situation.  The  mastery  of  the  author  lies  in  showing  the  extraordinary  variety  of  human  knavishness-that  wealth,  that  multi-  fariousness  of  evil  which  cannot  be  re-  duced  to  any  single,  simple  formula.  Taudlitz  is  not  one  whit  &quot;better&quot;  than  Wieland;  he  is  merely  taken  up  with  something  else,  for  he  aspires  to  a  total  " b"and  therefore  impossible  transfigura-  tion.  Hence  his  &quot;puritanism,&quot;  which  his  closest  associates  come  to  hold  so  much  against  him.  As  for  the  courtiers,  we  have  seen  that  they  strive  to  be  courtiers  indeed,  for  different  reasons.  But  later,  when  tenof  them  take  to  plotting  against  the  monarch-Gruppenfiihrer,  with  the  idea  of  robbing  him  of  his  chest  full  of  dollars,  and  of  murdering  him  as  well,  they  nonetheless  regret  the  prospect  of  having  to  part  with  their  senatorial  chairs,  titles,  decorations,  and  distinc-  tions.  Thus,  they  find  themselves  in  a  true  quandary.  They  do  not  want  to  cut  the  old  man's  throat  and  flee  with  the  loot;  they  do  not  and  yet  they  do.  And  it  is  not  merely  the  matter  of  ap-  pearances  that  interferes  with  their  plotting.  There  are  moments  when  they  themselves  believe  in  the  possi-  bility  of  their  eminence,  for  that  pos-  sibility  to  the  highest  degree  answers  their  needs.  What  hampers  them  the  most  (and  this  is  madness  indeed,  but  perfectly  logical,  psychologically  con-  sistent)  is  no  longer  the  recognition,  in  the  form  of  memory,  that  they  are  not  what  they  pretend  to  be;  it  is  the  arbi-  trary  cruelty  of  Taudlitz-as-monarch.  Had  the  monarch  not  been  every  inch  the  S.S.  Gruppenfiaihrer,  had  he  not  made  it  so  very  clear  to  them,  silently,  that  they  were  his  creatures,  existing  by  the  act  of  his  will  and  momentary  favor,  then  the  [REDACTED]  of  the  Bourbons  in  the  Argentine  interior  would  defi-  nitely  have  proven  more  stable  and  vi-  able.  And  so  theactors  come  to  hold  against  the  impresario  of  the  show  his  insufficient  authenticity;  the  band  of  thieves  would  be  plus  monaerchique  than  the  monarch  himself  allows  them.  And  yet  there  is  no  affectation  or  stiltedness  in  the  playing  of  the  roles  but,  rather,  a  down-to-earth  verisimili-  tude;  we  see  how  these  dukes  address  their  duchesses,  how  the  Marquis  de  Beaujolais  (formerly  Hans  Wehrholz)  pounds  his  spouse  and  throws  up  to  her  her  whorish  past.  But  what  tops  everything  are  those  who  play  the  high  clergy  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church.  There  are  no  Catholics  whatever  in  the  colony,  and  it  is  impossible  to  speak  of  any  sort  of  religious  feeling  among  the  former  S.S.  men.  It  becomes  gen-  erally  accepted,  then,  for  the  so-called  services  held  in  the  palace  chapel  to  be  extremely  brief;  they  are  reduced  to  the  chanting  of  a  few  verses  from  the  Bible.  Nevertheless,  the  cardinals,  the  Archbishop  of  [REDACTED],  and  the  other  bishops  in  this  way  &quot;justify&quot;  their  high  titles,  because  these  few  minutes  each  week-an  atrocious  parody  of  Mass-  legitimize,  primarily  in  their  own  eyes,  their  rank  in  the  Church  hierarchy.  Thus,  they  put  up  with  it  all  and  remain  at  their  altars  for  minutes  on  end  in  order  later  to  reward  themselves  with  hours  spent  at  the  banquet  tables  and  beneath  the  canopies  of  sumptuous  beds.  Not  to  mention  the  projector  that  is  smuggled  into  the  palace,  without  the  King's  knowledge,  from  Montevideo  and  used  to  show  stag  films  in  the  cellar,  with  the  Archbishop  of  [REDACTED]  (the  quondam  Gestapo  chauffeur  Hans  Schaeffert)  doing  the  honors  as  pro-  jectionist  and  Cardinal  du  Sauternes  (ex-commissary)  helping  him  change  the  reels.  To  these  people  all  things  are  recon-  cilable  with  all  things.  On  the  question  of  criminality  they  are  obtuse  to  the  point  of  innocence.  It  is  possible  that  in  some  sense  Cardinal  du  Sauternes  knows  that  a  real  cardinal  does  not  behave  thus,  that  a  real  cardinal  be-  lieves  in  God  and  most  probably  does  not  go  about  raping  the  Indian  boys  who  assist  at  Mass  in  surplices,  but  since  within  a  radius  of  four  hundred  miles  there  are  no  other  cardinals,  such  a  thought  does  not  trouble  him  unduly.  ALSEHOOD  feeding  on  falsehood  produces  a  proliferating  fertility  of  form  which  surpasses  any  authentic  court  as  a  mirror  of  human  behavior,  for  itis  true  to  life  in  two  ways  at  once.  Zellermann  does  not  permit  himself  the  least  exaggeration,  and  the  realism  of  the  subject  remains  uncompromised.  When  the  general  drunkenness  goes  " b"beyond  a  certain  point,  the  royal  Grup-  penfiihrer  always  retires  to  his  cham-  bers,  for  he  knows  that  the  old  prison-  guard  ways  will  win  out  over  the  veneer  of  refinement,  and  that  from  drunken  hiccupping  there  will  soon  es-  cape  those  grotesque  and  gruesome  lo-  cutions  whose  power  derives  from  the  contrast  between  the  adopted  mentality  and  the  real.  The  whole  genius-if  one  may  use  that  term-of  Taudlitz  lies  in  his  having  the  courage  and  the  consistency  to  &quot;close&quot;  the  system  which  he  has  created.  This  system,  frightfullycrippled,  functions  thanks  only  to  its  insularity;  one  puff  from  the  real  world  would  topple  it.  Just  such  a  potential  toppler  is  young  Bertrand,  but  he  does  not  have  the  strength  to  speakout  with  that  gen-  uine  voice  of  dismay  which  calls  things  by  their  name.  The  simplest  possibility,  which  explains  the  totality  of  the  situa-  tion,  Bertrand  dares  not  contemplate:  that  the  court  is  just  a  vulgar  lie,  kept  going  for  years,  maintained  methodi-  cally,  thumbing  its  nose  at  common  sense-a  self-enamored  lie  and  nothing  more.  He  would  sooner  see  it  as  a  com-  munal  paranoia  or  some  inconceivable  secret  game  of  unknown  purpose  yet  rational  at  its  core,  possessing  bona-fide  and  fully  cogent  motives.  Bertrand,  then,  capitulates  at  once:  he  lets  them  dress  him  in  the  garments  of  the  heir  to  the  throne  and  instruct  him  in  court  etiquette-that  is  to  say,  in  that  rudimentary,  pseudo-historical  repertoire  of  bows,  gestures,  and  words  that  substitutes  for  etiquette.  But  he  remains  stubbornly  passive,  unaware  that  his  passivity,  his  inertness-which  provokes  not  merely  the  courtiers  but  the  King  himself-is  an  instinctive  re-  sistance  to  a  situation  that  forces  sub-  missive  idiocy  on  him.  Bertrand  does  not  want  to  beburied  in  lies,  but  he  does  not  know  that  this  is  the  source  of  his  opposition.  Therefore  he  limits  him-  self  to  occasional  gibes  and  ironical  remarks.  During  a  big  banquet,  it  hap-  pens  that  the  King,  stung  by  an  in-  sinuation  behind  some  of  Bertrand's  seemingly  casual  words-words  whose  hidden  malice  the  lad  himself  does  not  immediately  realize-in  a  fit  of  rage  begins  hurling  scraps  of  a  partly  eaten  roast  at  him.  Half  the  hall  seconds  the  fury  with  a  gleeful  howl  of  approba-  tion,  throwing  at  the  poor  wretch  greasy  bones  from  their  silver  plates.  The  rest  preserve  an  uneasy  silence,  wondering  whether  Taudlitz  might  not  be  laying  a  trapof  some  sort  for  them,  as  he  is  fond  of  doing-whether  he  might  not  be  acting  in  concert  with  the  Dauphin.  The  most  difficult  thing  to  convey  here  is  that  for  all  the  banality  of  the  game,  for  all  the  flatness  of  the  per-  formance-which,  although  put  on  at  one  time  indifferently,  has  grown  so  in  power  that  it  does  not  want  to  end,  and  does  not  want  to  because  it  can-  not,  and  cannot  because  beyond  it  there  awaits  now  only  utter  nothingness  (the  &quot;actors&quot;  cannot  leave  off  being  bishops,  princes  of  the  blood,  and  marquises,  since  they  cannot  go  back  to  their  for-  mer  postsof  Gestapo  chauffeur,  cre-  matorium  guard,  or  camp  comman-  dant,  just  as  the  King,  even  if  he  wished,  could  not  become  again  S.S.  Gruppenfiihrer  Taudlitz)-there  vi-  brates  inthis  kingdom  and  this  court,  like  a  single  vigilant,  taut  nerve,  a  ceaseless  cunning  and  a  mutual  suspi-  cion  that  permit  the  participants  to  con-  duct,  albeit  in  counterfeit  forms,  real  battles,  real  campaigns.  They  under-  cut  the  favorites  of  the  throne,  they  write  denunciations,  and  in  silence  each  wrests  for  himself  the  favor  of  the  lord,  But  it  is  not  the  cardinals'  hats,  not  ribbons  and  medals,  laces,ruffs,  and  suits  of  armor  that  warrant  such  un-  derground  labor,  the  tunnellings  of  in-  trigue-for  what,  really,  do  veterans  of  a  hundred  battles  and  a  thousand  murders  want  with  the  trappings  of  fictitious  glory?  The  strategy  itself-  the  machinations,  the  betrayals,  the  traps  set  for  one's  foes-is  its  own  reward.  So,  then,  this  jockeying  for  position,  seeking  the  right  move  on  the  court  parquet,  in  the  shining  halls  whose  mir-  rors  reflect  the  courtiers'  decked-out  silhouettes,  this  incessant  warfare,  is  their  reason  for  being.  It  gives  meaning  to  what  would  otherwise  be  only  a  children's  carnival,  suitable  perhaps  for  " b"beardless  youths,  not  for  men  who  know  the  taste  of  blood.  After  a  while,  poor  Bertrand  can  no  longer  endure  being  alone  with  his  unuttered  dilemma;  as  a  drowning  man  grasps  at  straws,  he  seeks  out  a  kindred  spirit-one  to  whom  he  can  unburden  himself  of  the  purpose  that  is  growing  within  him,  He  has  gradual-  ly  become  the  Hamlet  of  this  mad  court.  He  is,  in  it,  the  last  righteous  man.  His  instinct  is  to  say  what  con-  stantly  rushes  to  his  lips  and  burns  his  tongue,  but  he  knows  he  cannot  as  a  normal  person  do  so  with  impunity.  If  he  were  to  go  insane,  though,  it  would  be  quite  a  different  matter.  He  begins,  then,  not  to  simulate  madness  cold-  bloodedly,  as  does  Shakespeare's  Ham-  let.  No,  being  a  simpleton,  a  naif,  and  a  bit  of  a  hysteric,  he  tries  to  go  literally  insane,  with  all  good  faith  in  the  neces-  sity  of  his  own  madness!  Thus  he  may  utter  the  words  of  truth  that  oppress  him.  At  this  point,  the  Duchesse  de  Clic-  quot,  an  old  prostitute  from  Rio,  hav-  ing  taken  a  fancy  to  the  lad,  gets  him  into  bed  with  her  and  there,  educating  him  in  the  ways  remembered  from  the  time  of  her  un-highborn  past-ways  learned  at  the  hand  of  a  certain  madam-adjures  him  sternly  not  to  say  things  that  might  cost  him  his  neck.  For  she  knows  well  that  sucha  thing  as  respect  for  the  mentally  ill  has  no  place  at  so  sordida  court.  But  that  conversation  between  the  sheets  (in  which  the  Duchesse  proves  a  truly  ac-  complished  whore)  does  not  succeed  in  changing  Bertrand's  mind.  He  is  be-  yond  caring  now.  He  must  either  go  mad  or  run  away.  A  dissection  of  the  unconscious  of  the  others  would  prob-  ably  reveal  that  their  awareness  of  the  outside  world,  which  awaits  them  with  prison  terms  and  tribunals,  is  an  in-  visible  force  compelling  them  to  con-  tinue  with  the  game;  Bertrand,  how-  ever,  who  has  nothing  in  common  with  such  a  past,  does  not  wish  to.  Meanwhile  the  conspiracy  enters  the  phase  of  action:  not  ten,  now,  but  fourteen  courtiers,  ready  for  anything,  having  gained  an  accomplice  in  the  captain  of  thepalace  guard,  break  into  the  royal  bedroom  after  midnight.  Their  main  objective  is  torpedoed  at  the  last  moment:  it  turns  out  that  the  good  dollars  have  long  since  been  spent  and  all  that  remain  are  counterfeit  ones.  The  King  knew  this.  He  watches  from  his  bonds  on  the  bed  as  they  turn  upside  down  the  &quot;treasury&quot;  hidden  un-  derneath  it.  They  had  planned  to  beat  him  to  death  out  of  practical  considera-  tions,  so  that  he  wouldn't  be  able  to  pursue  them,  but  now  they  kill  him  out  of  hatred,  because  he  led  them  on  with  false  treasure.  Execrable  as  it  sounds,  I  must  say  that  the  murder  scene  is  delightful.  In  order  to  get  at  the  old  man  as  pain-  fully  as  possible,  before  they  strangle  him  with  a  cord,  the  conspirators  be-  gin  to  roar  at  him  in  the  language  of  camp  cooks  and  Gestapo  chauffeurs  that  language  which  had  been  anathe-  matized,  banished  eternally  from  the  kingdom.  Then,  as  the  body  is  still  twitching  on  the  floor,  the  murderers,  regaining  their  composure,  re\xc3\xa9fur\xc2\xbb  to  the  language  of  the  court.  They  now  have  no  alternative:  the  dollars  are  counterfeit,  there  is  nothing  with  which  to  flee,  nor  any  reason  to  do  so.  Taud-  litz  has  bound  and  tied  them;  though  lifeless  himself,  he  will  let  no  one  leave  his  state.  They  must  consent,  then,  to  the  continuation  of  the  game,  in  keep-  ing  with  the  motto  &quot;Le  rot  est  mort,  wive  le  roi!&quot;  And  there,  at  once,  over  the  corpse,  they  must  choose  a  new  king.  The  next  chapter  (Bertrand  in  hid-  ing  at  the  Duchesse's)  is  much  weaker,  but  the  final  one,  in  which  a  patrol  of  Argentine  mounted  police  comes  knocking  at  the  castle  gate,  provides  a  magnificent  conclusion.  We  see  the  drawbridge,  the  policemen  in  rumpled  uniforms  with  Colts  in  shoulder  hol-  sters,  wearing  wide  hats  turned  up  on  one  side,  and  opposite  them  guards  in  half  armor,  with  halberds.  Each  side  stares  at  the  other  in  amazement-two  times,  two  worlds  impossibly  brought  together.  Between  them  the  portcullis  slowly,  heavily  begins  to  lift,  with  an  infernal  grinding  sound....  A  finale  worthy  of  the  work!  Unfortunately,  the  author  lost  sight  of  his  Hamlet-Bertrand.  He  failed  to  make  use  of  the  tremendous  opportun-  ity  which  lay  within  that  character.  I  will  not  say  he  should  have  had  him  killed  off-Shakespeare's  play  need  not  serve  here  as  a  paradigm-but  it  is  a  shame  that  more  was  not  done  with  this  greatness  oblivious  of  itself,  a  greatness  present  in  the  well-meaning  heart  of  everyday  man. "