    METAMORPHOSIS  HE  first  road  my  younger  sister  and  I  ever  walked  alone  was  the  road  to  school-a  straight,  long  avenue  with  oak  trees,  the  green  ex-  panses  of  a  botanical  garden  on  one  side  and  empty  weed-filled  plots  on  the  other,  Sister's  favorite  side.  The  road  connected  our  quiet  residential  section  with  the  big  center  ofa  North  German  town,  and  a  world  unknown  to  us.  There  was  a  tram  we  might  have  ridden,  but  our  parents  did  not  want  us  to  use  it;  walking  was  healthy,  they  felt,  and  school  was  within  walking  dis-  tance-half  an  hour  in  all.  Automobiles  were  not  a  feature  of  street  life  in  that  time,  and  we  had  seen  our  road  crowded  only  once,  at  the  beginning  ofthe  war-the  First  World  War-when  singing  soldiers  bedecked  with  flowers  were  marching  and  riding  past  us,  To  the  front,  we  were  told,  and  fields  of  glory.  Since  then,  we  expected  something  to  hap-  pen  there  again,  something  equally  spectacular.  We  were  still  waiting,  after  two  years  of  school  and  war.  It  was  my  sister  who  discovered  it,  onan  early-summer  morning-the  dead  dog.  Being  more  apprehensive  about  school  than  I,  and  for  this  reason  probably  more  attentive  to  the  land-  marks  that  dotted  our  way  to  this  dis-  ciplinary  institution,  she     death,  at  home  or  outside-flooded  with  sunlight,  at  that.  The  dog  must  have  been  run  over  quite  recently,  and  then  dumped  on  the  other  side  of  the  fence.  Its  blood  was  still  brightly  red,  and  its  entrails,  spill-  ing  out  of  the  torn  stomach  like  messed-up  skeins,  looked  shiny  against  the  dusty  weeds.  We  peered  at  it  in  silence-at  the  limp  head,  the  open,  opaque  eyes.  There  was  an  unfamiliar  stillness  about  the  scene,  the  stillness  of  violently  arrested  movement.  It  seemed  to  grow  tense,  and  involve  us.  The  longer  we  looked,  the  more  deeply  we  felt  it  penetrate.  We  heard  it  humming  in  our  ears,  until  we  realizedthat  there  were  flies  around  us.  &quot;It  might  not  be  a  dog,&quot;  I  said,  in  a  foolish  attempt  to  break  the  spell.  &quot;Don't  be  silly.  It  can't  be  anything  else,&quot;  Sister  replied,  with  a  flicker  of  authority  in  her  voice.  She  was  a  year  and  a  half  younger  than  I-only  eight-and  in  a  lower  form  in  school,  a  difference  that  mat-  tered  much  then.  Usually,  it  was  I  who  rebuked  Aer  for  silliness.  For  her  silly  passion  for  collecting  colored-glass  splinters-troubles,  too.  It  exposed  her  to  all  kinds  of  imprudent  experiences  cut  fingers,  bruised  knees,  first  aid,  soiled  books,  and  punishment.  That  this  exposure  could  also  noticed  at  once  the  man-  gmumdhuwuﬁv“?  endow  her  with  author-  gled  body  behind  the  }  ity  was  another  shock  I  wire  netting  of  an  emp-  {}{  {}{4  §  had  to  face  on  that  road.  ty  plot-the  last  one  we  é  ¢  E  had  to  pass  on  the  waste-  3  ACH  day,  on  our  land  side  before  reaching  §  1  pG  way  to  school  and  school.  As  usual,  she  f  g  back  home,  she  made  stopped  there  to  look  3  4  us  stop  at  the  dog,  and  for  broken  glass  that  ap-  S  &amp;  each  day  the  color  of  pealed  to  her  fancy.  On  f  its  blood  and  guts  grew  several  occasions  before,  3  fainter;  so  did  my  hope  she  had  crawled  through  {}{  that  someone  would  a  hole  in  the  wire  to  J}  p  E,  claim  and  bury  it  out  ick  up  the  most  spar-  b  3  of  sight.  Only  the  P  P£  unomeaucienuynunt  |  E  Y  kling  bits  to  carry  home  to  the  collection  she  kept  in  a  discarded  velvet-lined  jewel  box.Just  to  make  us  arrive  late  at  school,  I  suspected,  and  this  in  full  sight  of  the  school  building,  a  tall,  stern  edifice,  looming  up  like  a  frontier  fortress  at  the  edge  of  the  wasteland.  Beyond  it  lay  the  city's  maze  of  gray  streets  and  houses,  hiding  vague  perils,  as  we  had  gathered  from  our  parents'  warning.  With  the  dead  creature  in  front  of  us,  these  perils  had  invaded  familiar  territory,  taking  us  by  surprise.  Except  for  a  dead  mouse  and  our  canary  bird  that  died,  both  looking  like  discarded  toys,  we  had  not  encountered  earth  claimed  the  body  back,  more  merciful  and  more  pitiless  than  man.  And  we  were  witnessing  her  claim.  The  spot  was  soon  teeming  with  busy  insects,  ants,  and  flies.  Their  buzzing  rose  and  fell  with  our  ap-  proaching  and  receding  steps-an  angry  warning  to  stay  away.  But  Sis-  ter  did  not  care.  &quot;Let's  do  something  about  it,&quot;  she  said,  after  a  fortnight  of  silent  observation.  Again  there  was  that  new  authority  in  her  voice  I  had  had  to  reckon  with  since  her  frightening  discovery.  &quot;Let's  do  something  soon.  You  know  what  I  mean,&quot;  Sister  insisted.  And  I  knew.  &quot;Metamorphosis,&quot;  I  said.  She  nodded  gravely.  Metamorphosis  was  the  name  of  the  compost  heap  in  our  garden;  Father  had  baptized  it  so.  It  was  part  of  Fa-  ther's  humor  to  attach  learned  names  to  the  crudities  of  life,  with  the  hope,  perhaps,  of  transcending  them.  But  there  was  also  a  practical  side  to  his  humor.  In  those  days  of  murderous  battles  and  long  lists  of  soldiers  dead  for  their  fatherland,  even  gentle  and  absent-minded  civilians  like  Father,  exempted  from  military  service  because  of  ill  health,  must  have  tried  to  adjust  themselves  to  callous  realities-in  their  homes,  at  least.  That's  why  he  had  buried  our  canary  bird  in  the  compost  heap  he  was  patiently  building  up  on  the  advice  of  an  equally  unworldly  and  ailing  uncle  who  told  him  one  could  raise  melons  that  way,  and  flowers  in  the  bargain.  The  canary  had  died  on  a  mild  win-  ter  day  for  lackof  proper  food.  We  had  wrapped  it  up  in  the  paper  from  a  bar  of  scented  soap,  and  then  Father  had  sunk  the  small  parcel  into  the  squelch  of  the  compost,  among  decay-  ing  leaves  and  kitchen  refuse.  To  allay  our  grief  and  disgust,  he  had  made  a  proper  funeral  speech.  &quot;This  is  the  place  of  metamorphosis,  of  miraculous  transformation,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  will  rise  again,  little  bird,  in  the  form  of  the  finest  melons  ever  to  be  eaten,  and  in  thecolor  of  the  most  beautiful  sun-  flowers  ever  to  be  seen.  Rise,  die,  and  rise  again'!&quot;  Many  months  had  gone  by  since  then,  but  his  words  had  impressed  us  so  deeply  that  we  were  only  waiting  to  give  metamorphosis  a  new  try-a  more  effective  one,  since  the  compost,  despite  Father's  care  and  studies  in  a  gardening  handbook,  had  produced  nothing  but  plants.  Now  the  occasion  had  come,  and  we  decided  to  carry  the  dog's  body-or,  rather,  what  was  left  of  it-  to  the  compost  heap  in  our  garden  cor-  ner,  so  that  it  could  work  its  magic.  All  we  needed  was  a  couple  of  sturdy  sticks  for  transporting  the  corpse,  and  those  were  easily  found  under  the  oak  trees  along  our  road.  While  Sister  was  crawling  through  the  hole  in  the  wire  netting,  I  turned  |}  away,  cowardly,  waiting  for  her  to  call  when  my  help  was  needed.  She  must  have  started  pushing  the  dog  toward  the  fence,  because  I  heard  a  strange  noise-something  like  rustling  and  wheezing.  Suddenly  she  was  back  on  my  side,  all  white  in  the  face,  telling  me  to   run.  &quot;It  moves!&quot;  she  cried,  throwing  away  her  sticks,  and  we  both  began  running,  without  looking  back.  I  DID  not  ask  Sister  any  questions;  nor  did  we  talk  about  this  incident.  But  from  then  on  we  avoided  the  sight  of  the  dog,  choosing  to  walk  on  the  other  side  of  the  road  when  we  went  back  and  forth  to  school.  Only  after  the  summer  vacation,  which  we  spent  in  the  gay  company  of  a  children's  colony  on  the  Baltic  Sea,  did  we  mus-  ter  enough  courage  to  have  another  look  at  the  dog,  on  our  first  day  back  to  school.  There  was  nothing  left  of  its  body.  But  where  it  had  rested  we  saw  a  wavering  line  of  small  poppies,  thin  and  burning  red,  like  the  fresh  scar  on  Sis-  ter's  knee,  and  we  could  not  bring  ourselves  to  pick  them. 