 b"Momma  didn't  'low  no  clarinet  played  in  here,  Unfortunate-  ly.  -Momma.  -Momma  didn't  'low  no  clarinet  played  in  here.  Made  me  sad.  -That  wretch  Momma.  -We  didn't  care  what  Momma  didn't  'low-  --Played  that  dang  thing  anyhow  -The  dark  silky  timbre  of  the  clar-  inet  ...  -We  were  wrong.  -I  think  so.  -Richly  wrong.  -Our  studied  breaches  of  her  pro-  hibitions.  -Momma  was  outside.  -Momma  was  very  outside.  -Sitting  there  'lowing  and  don't,  &quot;lowing.  In  her  old  rocking  chair.  -Lowing  this,  don't-'lowing  that.  -Didn't  'low  oboe,.  -Didn't  'low  gitfiddle.  Vibes.  -Rock  over  your  damn  foot  and  bust  it,  you  didn't  pop  to  when  she  was  'lowing  and  don't-'lowing.  -Right.  Course,  she  had  all  the  grease.  -True.  -You  wanted  a  little  grease,  like  to  buy  a  damn  comic  book  or  some-  thing,  youhad  to  go  to  Momma.  -Sometimes  yes,  sometimes  Her  variously  colored  moods.  -Mauve.  Warm  gold.  Citizen's  blue.  -Mauve  mood  that  got  her  thrown  in  the  jug  that  time.  -Concealed  weapons.  Well,  what  can  you  do?  -Carried  a  .357  daytimes  and  a  .22  for  evenings.  Well,  what  can  you  do?  -Momma  didn't  let  nobody  work  her  over,  nobody.  -She  just  didn'tgive  a  hang.  She  didn't  care.  -I  thought  she  cared.  There  were  moments.  -She  never  cared.  Didn't  give  a  Kleenex.  -You  could  even  cry,  she  wouldn't  come.  -I  tried  that,  I  remember.  Cried  and  cried.  Didn't  do  a  damn  bit  of  good,  -Lost  as  she  was  in  the  Eleusinian  Mysteries  and  the  artof  love.  -Cried  my  little  eyes  out.  The  sheet  was  sopping.  -Momma  was  not  to  be  swayed.  Unswayable.  -Smoking  her  long,  graceful  pipe  no.  with  its  porcelain  bowl  painted  with  violets.  Purple  violets.  -Staring  into  the  thermostat.  -She  had  a  lot  on  her  mind.  The  Mysteries.  And  Daddy,  of  course.  -Let's  not  do  Daddy  today.  -Agreed.  Yes,  I  remember  Mom-  ma,  jerking  the  old  nervous  system  about  with  her  electric  diktats.  -Could  Christ  have  performed  the  work  of  the  Redemption  had  He  come  into  the  world  in  the  shape  of  a  pea?  That  was  one  she'd  drop  on  you.  -Then  she'd  grade  your  paper.  -I  got  a  C,  once.  -What  did  we  know?  Nothing.  -What  do  we  know?  Nothing.  -Not  so.  I  have  decided  that  I  am  mature.  -You.  -Yes.  Fully  mature.  -After  all  these  years.  Congratu-  lations.  -Absolutely  mature.  -We  are  proud  of  you.  -Of  course,  it  may  not  be  true.  --I  know.  I  still  find  in  my  dis-  course  that  damned  self-congratulatory  strain,  faint  insinuating  self-praise  beg-  ging  for  little  pats  on  the  head-  -Ugh.  I  know.  -Continuous  stream  of  auto-mas-  sage,  you  did  that  well,  baby,  you  did  that  very  well,  baby,  you  didn't  do  that  badly,  baby,  it  could  have  been  worse,  dummy.  -She  dyed  my  beard  blue,  on  the  eve  of  my  seventh  marriage.  I  was  sleeping  on  the  sun  porch.  -Not  one  to  withhold  comment,  Momma.  -Damned  stuff  wouldn't  come  out.  Had  to  get  me  one  of  those  white  gauze  masks,  raised  a  few  eyebrows,  judge  asked  me  if  I  had  blood  on  my  hands,  said  he  wouldn't  marry  me  un-  less  I  scrubbed.  -Got  pretty  damned  tired  of  that  old  woman,  pretty  damned  tired  of   that  old  woman.  Gangs  of  ecstatics  hanging  about  beating  on  pots  and  pans,  trash-can  lids-  -Trying  for  a  ticket  to  the  Mys-  teries.  -You  wanted  a  little  grease,  like  to  go  to  the  brothel  or  something,  you  had  to  say,  Momma  can  I  have  a  little  grease  to  go  to  the  brothel?  -She  was  often  underly  generous.  -Give  you  eight  when  she  knew  it  was  ten.  -She  had  her  up  days  and  her  down  days.  Like  most.  -Out  for  a  long  walk  one  early  evening  I  noticed  in  the  bare  brown  cut  fields  to  the  right  of  me  and  to  the  left  of  me  the  following  items  of  inter-  est:  In  the  field  to  the  right  of  me,  couple  copulating  in  the  shade  of  a  car,  tan  Studebaker  as  I  remember,  a  thing  I  had  seen  previously  only  in  old  sepia-  toned  photographs  taken  from  the  air  by  playful  barnstormers  capable  of  fly-  ing  with  one  hand,  I  don't  know  if  that's  difficult  or  not-  -And  in  the  field  to  your  left?  -Momma.  Rocking.  -She'd  lugged  theold  rocking  chair  all  that  way.  In  a  mauve  mood.  -I  tipped  my  hat.  She  did  not  re-  turn  the  greeting.  -She  was  pondering.  &quot;The  god-  dess  Demeter's  anguish  for  all  her  children's  mortality.&quot;  -Said  my  discourse  was  sickening.  That  was  the  word  she  used.  Said  it  repeatedly.  -I  asked  myself:  Do  I  give  a  bag  of  beans?  -This  bird  that  fell  into  the  back  yard?  -The  south  lawn.  -The  back  yard.  I  wanted  to  give  it  a  Frito?  -Yeah?  -Thought  it  might  be  hungry.  Sumbitch  couldn't  fly,  you  understand.  It  had  crashed.  Couldn't  fly.  So  I  went  into  the  house  to  get  it  a  Frito.  So  I  was  trying  to  get  it  to  eat  the  Frito.  I  had  the  damn  bird  in  one  hand,  and  in  the  other  the  Frito.  -She  saw  you  and  whopped  you.  -She  did.  -She  gave  you  that  &quot;The  bird  is  our  friend  and  we  never  touch  the  bird  because  it  hurts  the  bird&quot;  number.  -She  did.  -Then  she  threw  the  bird  away.  -Into  the  gutter.  -Anticipating  no  doubt  handling  of  the  matter  by  the  proper  authori-  ties,  -Momma.  You'd  ask  her  how  she  was  and  she'd  say,  &quot;Fine.&quot;  Like  a  lit-  tle  kid.  " b"-That's  what  they  say.  &quot;Fine.&quot;  -T  hat's  all  you  can  get  out  of  'em.  &quot;Fine.&quot;  -Boy  or  girl,  don't  make  a  penny's  worth  of  difference.  &quot;Fine.&quot;  -Fending  you  off.  Momma.  -Momma  'lowed  lute.  -Yes.  She  had  a  thing  for  lute.  -I  remember  the  hours  we  spent.  Banging  away  at  our  lutes.  -Momma  sitting  there  rocking  away.  Dosing  herself  with  strange  in-  toxicants.  -Lime  Rickeys.  -Orange  Blossoms.  -Rob  Roys.  -Cuba  Libres.  -Brandy  Alexanders  and  Bronxes.  How  could  she  drink  that  stuff?  -An  iron  gut.  -Momma  was  outside.  -Momma  was  very  outside.  -Course  she  had  things  on  her  mind.  -Her  crimes.  -Her  crimes,  Her  crimes  and  her  hopes.  -I  never  knew.  I  supposed  she  had  them,  most  people  do.  The  specifics  escaped  me.  --Wrinkled  hopes,  Had  to  do  with  getting  the  hell  out,  mostly.  -To  where?  -Away,  away.  -To  where?  -Away.  -You  mean  like  away.  -Wanted  to  get  shut  of  us.  Want-  ed  to  get  shut  of  here.  --She  did.  -Sent  herself  cables  saying  &quot;FINAL  TIER  NEGOTIATIONS  REQUIRE  YOUR  PRESENCE  SOONEST  LOVE  WINKY.&quot;  -Who  was  Winky?  -Wasn't  any  Winky.  She'd  leave  them  lying  around,  little  fear-spots  on  various  tables  and  chairs.  Come  on  one  and  it  would  burn  your  eyes.  Then  you'd  have  to  pretend  you  hadn't  read  it.  But  she  knew  you  Ahad  read  it.  Similarly,  -Where  was  I  during  all  this,  I  don't  remember.  -You  were  after  Caroline.  Sweet  Caroline.  -Momma  didn't  'low  Caroline.  -Absolutely  true.  -Momma  didn't  'low  Patrice.  -My  Patrice.  -She  was  a  bit  hard  on  Patrice.  -I  remember.  -You  still  see  Patrice?  -Once  in  a  way.  --Cut  up  old  touches.  -Saw  her  Saturday.  I  hugged  her  and  her  body  leaped.  -Patrice  was  fifteen  years  ago.  -Longer.  \xc2\xa959,  '60,  along  in  there.  -The  wind  takes  people  in  different  directions.  -The  wind.  It's  like  you  got  a  boat  and  the  guy  don't  quite  know  how  to  manage  the  sails.  Doesn't  know  how  to  tack.  It's  about  like  that.  But  when  I  saw  her,  Saturday,  I  hugged  her  and  her  body  leaped.  I  felt  it  leap.  -How  did  that  feel?  -Wonderful.  -The  body  knows.  -The  body  is  perspicacious.  -The  body  ain't  dumb.  --Words  can't  say  what  the  body  knows.  -Sometimes  I  hear  them  howling  from  the  hospital.  -The  detox  ward.  -Tied  to  the  bed  with  beige  cloths.  -Well,  it's  a  bitch.  -Like  when  Momma  played  Scrabble,  She  played  to  kill.  She  would  usethe  filthiest  words,  insisting  on  their  legitimacy.  I  was  shocked.  -In  her  robes  of  deep  purple.  -Seeking  the  ecstatic  vision.  That  which  would  lift  people  four  feet  off  the  floor.  -Six  feet.  -Four  feet  or  six  feet  off  the  floor.  Persephone  herself  appearing.  -The  chanting  in  the  darkened  telesterion.  --Persephone  herself  appearing,  hovering.  Accepting  offerings,  balls  of  salt,  solid-gold  serpents,  fig  branches,  figs.  -Hallucinatory  dancing.  All  the  women  drunk.  -Dancing  with  jugs  on  their  heads,  mixtures  of  barley  water,  mint-  -Knowledge  of  things  unspeak-  able.  -It's  not  easy,  being  both  subject  and  object  of  the  Mysteries.  -And  a  momma.  -Still,  allI  wanted  to  do  was  a  lit-  tle  krummhorn.  A  little  krummhorn  once  in  a  while.  -Can  open  graves,  properly  played.  -I  was  never  good.  Never  really  good.  -What  can  I  say?  Who  could  practice?  -And  your  clavier.  -Momma  didn't  'low  clavier.  -Thought  it  would  unleash  in  her  impulses  better  leashed?  I  don't  know.  -Her  dark  side.  They  all  have  them,  mommas.  -I  mean  they've  seen  it  all,  felt  it  all.  Spilled  their  damn  blood  and  then  wiped  mushy  spinach  off  tiny  chins  meanwhile  telling  theold  husband  that  he  wasn't  No.  3  on  the  scale  of  all  husbands  ...  -Tossed  him  a  little  bombita  now  and  then  just  to  keep  him  on  his  toes.  -He  was  always  on  his  toes,  spent  his  whole  life  on  his  toes,  the  poor  bastard.  Piling  up  the  grease.  -We  said  we  weren't  going  to  do  Daddy,  -I  forgot.  -Old  Momma.  -Well,  it's  not  easy,  making  the  corn  grow.  -Asparagus  too.  -I  couldn't  do  it.  --I  couldn't  do  it.  -Momma  could  do  it.  -Momma.  -Want  me  to  put  on  a  record?  -  Yeah,  maybe.  "