 b"THE  first  snow  blends  with  blue  and  with  laundered  sheets,  Blue  is  the  color  of  winter  shadows  outside  the  back  window  of  the  apart-  ment  house.  I  am  five  and  can  barely  see  above  the  sill.  White  sheets  frozen  stiff,  folded  once,  tinted  blue  by  those  shadows,  are  swaying  slightly  on  the  pulley  line  extended  between  our  big  brick  building  and  a  wood-frame  two-  family  house  out  back.  My  mother,  who  has  six  children,  has  hung  them  out.  I  don't  know  what  she  does  after  hanging  out  the  clothes.  Except  for  that,  she  doesn't  seem  to  do  anything  in  the  apartment  all  day.  I  see  her  standing  in  the  living  room,  weeping  or  angry-talking,  shouting.  No  one  else  is  in  the  room.  I  know  she  washes  a  lot  of  clothes.  My  father  is  always  away,  working.  Next,  I  remember  a  long  loaf  of  pure  new  snow  on  the  windowsill,  My  brother  Frank,  two  years  older  than  I,  opens  the  window  and  tries  to  make  a  snowball,  but  the  snow  is  soft,  too  dry  and  powdery.  I  touch  it,  hold  some,  and  it  melts  in  my  hand.  In  a  flash,  I'm  a  year  older.  I'm  out-  side  in  the  alleyway  between  apartment  houses.  My  friend  Donny  and  I  are  united  in  a  snow-  ball  fight  against  children  who  live  down  the  block.  It  is  late  in  the  Depression,  1940.  Now,  from  my  se-  cure  warm  house,  I  look  through  ice-circled  win-  dows  and  see  myself  then,  my  hands  covered  with  socks.  They  wet  through  quickly  and  I  take  them  off  and  hold  my  hands  to-  gether.  Donny  and  I  are  laughing-we're  winning  the  snowball  fight.  Donny  is  wearing  round,  puffy,  dark-brown  leather  mit-  tensthat  have  a  white  flan-  nellining  and  elasticized  striped-cloth  wristbands.  They  smell  good.  I  NEVER  see  my  moth-  er  in  snow.  I  don't  even  remember  her  getting  in  and  out  of  a  car  in  the  snow.  She  always  hated  cold  weather  and  she  still  does.  When  I  go  to  visit  her  on  a  winter  day,  I  often  find  her  in  the  kitch-  en,  standing  next  to  a  sil-  very  radiator.  It  hisses.  I  kiss  her  cheek  and  she  is  silent.  She  is  short,  heavy  now,  and  her  face  still  has  some  beauty,  and  her  hair  is  still  quite  black.  Iask  her  if  she'd  like  to  go  out  in  the  cold  and  she  shakes  her  head  and  smiles.  I  don't  know  where  my  father  is  He's  not  napping  in  his  room,  where  I  often  find  him  these  days.  He's  seventy-four,  and  my  mother  is  sixty-four-I  can't  believe  they're  that  old  already.  Maybe  he  is  at  the  Elks  club,  playing  cards.  If  they  had  remained  in  their  little  village  high  in  the  mountains  instead  of  emi-  grating  to  [REDACTED],  he  would  probably  be  at  the  coffeehouse,  playing  cards,  too.  But  my  mother  would  be  in  a  whitewashed  stone  house  with  a  red  tile  roof,  sitting  on  a  low  stool  by  a  clean  hearth  with  a  small  fire  in  it,  and  she'd  be  knitting  unbleached  raw-woo!l  stockings  and  sweaters  and  gaiters,  and  gossiping  with  other  women,  mostly  relatives.  HEN  I'm  twelve,  the  State  Wel-  fare  Department  places  me  in  a  foster  home  to  live  with  my  four  younger  brothers  and  sisters.  'They  have  all  been  moved  there  years  ago.  Frank  doesn't  have  to  go-he's  old  enough  to  sayno.  At  the  foster  home,  we  are  outside  most  of  the  time.  The  foster  mother  puts  us  out  because  there  are  many  of  us  and  she  can't  stand  the  noise  and  commotion.  (Now  that  my  son  David  is  five  and  has  friends  trooping  through  the  house,  I  can  almost  understand.  But  I  would  never  force  a  child  to  go  out  in  the  winter.)  The  foster  mother  won't  let  us  leave  the  yard,  and  she  won't  let  us  play  in  the  snow  because  we'll  get  wet  and  then  sick,  she  says.  And  she  damn  well  doesn't  want  us  home  from  school,  she  says.  So  what  good  is  the  snow?  We  stand  in  a  huddle  back  near  the  one-  car  garage  and  stamp  our  feet  and  talk  and  sing  and  joke  together  until  it's  time  to  go  in.  Sometimes  we  run  races  back  and  forth  in  the  gravel  driveway.  Sometimes  I  stand  in  the  corner,  re-  membering  life  in  the  brick  build-  ing,  and  it  seems  full  of  freedom-  charming  and  warm.  My  brother  Frank  and  I  used  to  playcards  and  wrestle,  and  Donny  and  I  went  to  the  movies  after  raging  and  laughing  in  the  snow.  I  think,  as  I  stand  in  the  corner,  She  will  never  ruin  the  snow  for  me.  A  year  passes.  A  friend  at  school  in  the  eighthgrade,  Larry  Stanger,  a  " b"strong  boy  ayear  older  than  I,  with  a  certain  sparkle  in  his  eye  and  with  a  darkening  mustache,  has  given  me  a  prophylactic.  I  keep  it  in  its  little  worn  cardboard  packet  in  a  coat  pock-  etin  my  clothes  closet.  Occasionally,  on  a  moonlit  night,  with  my  little  brothers  asleep  in  the  bed  next  to  mine,  I  think  about  it,  and  I  think  about  Larry  talking  about  girls.  It's  all  be-  yond  me,  but  I'm  filled  with  a  curious  pride.  I'm  hungry.  Ravenous.  I  daydream  at  my  desk  in  school  about  food,  I  dream  in  my  sleep  about  food.  The  foster  mother,  who  has  always  feared  a  new  Depression,  saves  money.  She  gives  us  just  enough  food  to  sustain  us.  ButI'm  growing  rapidly,  rawboned,  thin;  I  need  more.  I  can't  tell  her-  she  might  give  me  a  simple  easy  swipe  with  her  hand.  That's  the  extent  of  her  assaults  on  me.  She  gives  my  sisters  and  brothers  real  beatings.  She  is  tall,  pale,  and  obese,  and  eats  great  quantities  of     food  piled  high  on  her  plate.  Her  hus-  band  is  a  little  quiet  man  and  he  never  lays  a  hand  on  any  of  us.  Sometimes  when  she  is  beating  someone,  flailing  away  with  a  stick,  he  says,  &quot;Christ,  woman,&quot;  and  leaves  the  house  and  gets  into  his  car  and  drives  away.  One  day,  it  snows  so  much  that  school  is  called  off.  By  now,  I  have  be-  gun  stealing  candy  or  packages  of  cup-  cakes  at  the  nearby  general  store  every  time  I  am  sent  there  by  the  foster  mother  to  buy  milk  or  bread  or  cold  cuts.  If  I  steal  cupcakes,  I  eat  them  at  the  store.  The  woman  who  runs  the  place-pleasant,  plump,  in  her  thir-  ties-is  always  adjusting  her  eyeglasses  and  smoking  Pall  Malls  and  talking  a  lot  about  cancer  and  crochet  patterns  with  other  women  at  the  cash  register,  and  she  doesn't  notice  me  eating.  I  pay  for  the  few  items  and  leave,  my  hunger  appeased  for  a  while.  If  I  steal  candy,  I  choose  something  flat,  like  a  big,  nickel  square  of  fudge  wrapped  in  cellophane,  slip  it  into  my  pocket,  and  take  it  home  with  me.  As  soon  as  I  can,  I  go  upstairs  and  hide  it  in  my  closet.  Late  at  night,  when  I'm  sure  everyone  is  asleep,  I  sit  in  the  closet  and  eat  it,  first  opening  the  crackling  package  between  heavy  hang-  ing  coats  to  muffle  the  noise.  'The  candy  has  a  terrific  heft  and  is  unbe-  lievably  delicious.  On  this  certain  snowy  day,  in  the  afternoon,  the  foster  mother  calls  me  from  the  book  I'm  reading  and  tells  me  I  have  to  go  to  the  store  for  her.  Inwardly,  I'm  nearly  in  ecstasy,  be-  cause  I  can  steal  something  to  eat.  It's  a  wonder  she  can't  see  me  jumping  out  of  my  skin.  She  gives  me  money,  and  I  put  on  my  arctics  and  plaid  mackinaw  and  plow  through  deep  snow,  down  our  road,  around  the  corner  to  the  state  highway,  up  that  highway  a  distance  of  one  city  block  to  the  store.  The  snow  has  stopped.  The  sky  is  heavy  and  dark;  a  violent  wind  is  pushing  clouds  fast,  rocking  bare  trees.  At  the  store,  I  pick  up  what  the  foster  mother  wants,  glance  at  the  proprietress,  and  slide  a  flat,  packaged  Whoopee  Pie  into  my  coat  pocket.  I  glance  at  the  proprietress  again,  and  she  glances  at  me  and  adjusts  her  glasses.  Oh,  God,  I  think  she  has  seen  me.  She  will  tell  the  foster  mother,  and  I  will  be  sent  away.  In-  stead  of  beating  me,  the  foster  mother  is  always  threatening  to  send  me  away,  alone,  where  I'll  never  see  my  family  again.  When  I  go  to  the  register  to  pay,  the  woman  merely  rings  up  the  purchase  and  takes  my  money.  I  think  my  face  is  red.  She  asks  me  why  I'm  so  quiet  today,  and  I  make  some  reply  and  shrug.  She  tells  me  I'm  getting  to  be  quite  a  young  man,  and  I  feel  my  face  go  redder.  Leaving  the  store,  I'm  reckless  with  hunger,  and  in-  stead  of  waiting  to  eat  the  Whoopee  Pie  in  my  closet  at  night,  I  pull  it  out  now,  tear  off  the  cellophane,  and  shove  the  round  cream-filled  choco-  late  layer  cake  into  my  mouth  in  three  orfour  bites.  I  push  it  with  my  tongue,  break  it  up,  masticate  wildly,  shove  it  to  the  back  of  my  mouth,  and  force  it  down  my  throat.  It  hurts  on  the  way  down  my  esophagus.  But  I  have  to  eat  " b"it  fast-home  is  just  around  the  cor-  ner,  half  a  block  down  our  rural  street.  I'm  gulping  and  swallowing,  looking  at  crooked  sumac  branches  clawing  up  through  snow  on  the  highway  shoul-  der.  I  wipe  my  mouth  very  quickly,  lick  my  teeth,  swallow,  lick  my  teeth  again,  spit  out  chocolate-flecked  saliva,  lick  all  my  teeth  again,  swallow,  suck  cleancold  air  between  my  teeth,  and  breathe  deeply  and  heavily  to  remove  odor.  When  I  get  to  the  house,  the  foster  mother  isn't  in  the  kitchen.  Her  hus-  band  is  sitting  at  the  table,  smoking,  listening  to  the  radio.  My  brothers  and  sisters  are  playing,  chattering  in  a  cor-  ner.  The  foster  father  is  softly  whis-  tling  a  little  tune.  He  looks  at  me.  Then  he  looks  at  me  again,  peculiar-  ly.  He  stops  whistling.  He  says  to  me,  &quot;Mike,  what've  you  been  eating?&quot;  Instantly  I  think  of  being  sent  away.  &quot;Nothing,&quot;  I  say.  My  heart  dives.  &quot;Nothing?&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cNO.\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;What's  that  in  the  corner  of  your  mouth?&quot;  I  wipe  at  my  mouth  swiftly  with  my  right  forefinger  and  find  it  spotted  with  cream  filling,  white  as  the  snow  drifted  high  out  in  the  driveway.  The  foster  mother  is  lumbering  into  the  kitchen.  She  quickly  learns  what  has  happened.  Then  she  asks  me  what  I've  been  eating.  &quot;A  Whoopee  Pie,&quot;  I  say  forthrightly.  &quot;W  here  did  you  get  it?&quot;  she  says.  Without  even  thinking,  Isay,  &quot;From  Larry  Stanger.  He  was  at  the  store.  He  was  having  one,  and  he  bought  me  one.&quot;  &quot;'Then  why  did  you  lie?&quot;  She  flicks  a  finger  toward  her  husband  and  says,  &quot;Why  did  you  tell  him  you  had  noth-  ing?&quot;  &quot;Because  I  thought  of  bringing  it  home,  but  then  how  could  I  share  it?  So  I  ate  it.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  believe  you,  If  you're  lying  to  me  ...&quot;  She'd  have  me  sent  away,  of  course.  &quot;You  can  call  Larry  Stanger  up  and  ask  him.&quot;  I  have  no  idea  what  I'm  say-  ing.  I  just  have  faith  that  if  she  does  call  him  on  the  telephone,  if  she  says,  &quot;Hello?  Is  this  Larry  Stanger?  This  is  Mrs.  Linden.  Did  you  just  buy  Michael  a  Whoopee  Pie  at  the  store?&quot;  Larry  will  say,  &quot;Sure,  I  did.  He  wanted  to  bring  it  home  and  share  it,  but  I  told  him  there's  not  enough,  he  couldn't  possibly,  and  we  stood  outside  the  store  " b"in  the  snow  and  ate  our  Whoopee  Pies  together.&quot;  &quot;I'm  going  tofind  out  if  you're  ly-  ing,&quot;the  foster  mother  says.  She  gets  up  with  great  effort  from  the  kitchen  table,  pulls  at  her  shapeless  housedress,  and  groans  toward  the  dining  room.  My  brothers  and  sisters  have  stopped  playing.  The  foster  father  has  turned  off  the  radio,  and  the  place  is  silent.  My  heart  is  beating  fast.  The  dining  room  is  overfurnished  with  heavy,  dark  mahogany  pieces.  She  takes  the  telephone  book  out  of  the  china-closet  drawer  and  sits  down  next  to  the  buffet.  She  smooths  her  white  hair.  She  turns  pages  for  some  time,  licking  her  finger,  squinting,  then  closes  the  telephone  book,.  She  lifts  the  receiver,  hesitates,  replaces  it.  She  pauses  fora  long  time.  Then  she  says,  &quot;I'm  not  going  to  call  this  time.  But  it  sure  sounds  fishy  to  me.  If  I  ever  catch  you  lying  to  me,  young  man,  or  steal-  ing,  you  know  how  you'll  end  up.&quot;  &quot;You  can  ask  Larry  Stanger.&quot;  My  voice  is  strong.  The  next  day  in  school,  when  I  see  Larry,  I  tell  him  about  it.  He  has  that  glintin  his  eye.  He  smiles  and  says  if  it  ever  comes  up  he'll  cover  for  me.  It  never  comes  up.  After  this  epi-  sode,  I  am  slavishly  careful  when  I  steal  food,  stealthy  as  a  private  detective.  The  hunger  doesn't  subside.  It  grows.  I  have  to  eat.  I  want  to  be  strong.  I  want  to  be  a  man.  RETURN  home  to  live,  at  the  end  of  high  school.  I'm  eighteen  and  am  allowed  to  make  that  decision.  I  go  away  to  college  on  scholarship,.  Dur-  ing  my  freshman  year,  my  father  buys  a  house  and  the  rest  of  the  family  comes  home,  One  day  during  Christmas  vacation,  I  shovel  the  whole  driveway  by  myself.  After  that,  I  have  a  pain  just  under  my  left  shoulder  blade.  It  goes  away  but  always  comes  back  when  I'm  tired.  At  college,  my  friends  and  I  have  snowball  fights.  Then,  at  night,  drunk,  we  rush  outside,  lie  down,  move  our  arms  and  legs  flat  in  the  snow,  and,  hooting  and  laughing,  make  snow  an-  gels.  In  the  morning  sun,  as  I  walk  alone  to  class,  the  snow  piled  insoft  clumps  on  dogwood  branches  outside  the  dormitories  and  class  buildings  looks  like  cotton.  I  associate  this  cotton-piled  snow  with  loneliness.  UsaN  and  I  have  been  married  ten  years.  In  that  time,  we  livein  apartments.  Susan  likes  to  look  at  snow  only  from  a  warm,  cozy  room.  My  snow  life  consists  of  digging  the  car  out  of  plowed  heaps.  Otherwise,  I  stand     at  windows,  looking  at  the  snow,  long-  ing  for  it.  As  if  itis  forbidden,  off  lim-  its,  I  never  go  out  in  it.  I  want  to  take  walks  in  it,  eat  some,  throw  snowballs,  make  snowmen,  go  sliding,  lie  in  it  and  make  snow  angels,  but  I  never  do  any  of  these  things.  I  miss  the  snow,  the  earth.  Although  no  one  is  stopping  me  from  going  to  it,  I  feel  like  a  prisoner.  We  have  a  son,  and  when  he  is  four  we  buy  ahouse.  In  the  fall,  I  am  on  the  earth  at  last,  planting  bulbs,  raking  leaves,  cleaning  up.  Winter  comes.  For  a  long  time,  there  is  little  or  no  snow.  Then,  final-  ly,  one  Thursday  night  in  February  it  snows  all  night  and  all  day  Friday.  We're  stranded  in  deep  snow,  hidden.  Luckily,  there  is  enough  food.  Susan  and  I  shovel  our  longcurved  driveway.  She  doesn't  complain.  I  try  not  to,  al-  though  I  feel  the  old  pain  under  my  left  shoulder  blade  and  take  note  of  mortality.  I  remember  my  father's  driveway  and  wonder  if  my  parents  are  snowbound.  I  think  of  my  mother  standing  beside  the  hot  radiator,  staring  out  the  window.  On  Sunday,  I  decide  to  take  David  sliding,  When  I  tell  him,  his  dark  eyes  flash,  he  jumps  up  and  down  and  shouts.  His  mother  doesn't  want  to  come.  She  dresses  David  warmly  and  gives  me  chocolate  bars  to  take  with  us  for  energy.  I  put  David's  sledin  the  back  of  the  station  wagon,  and  we  drive  to  the  local  country  club.  It  has  an  enor-  mous,  spread-out,  open  hill.  I  feel  a  little  shaky  about  going-after  all,  I'm  over  forty,  and  there  will  be  a  lot  of  kids  there,  teen-agers,  and  I  haven't  my  wife  to  talk  with,  to  share  the  experience  with.  When  we  park,  there  is  an  ambulance  stopped  down  the  road,  flashing  its  red  light.  I  think  of  how  extraor-  dinary,  how  startling,  red  blood  must  be  in  new  white  snow,  The  ambulance  pulls  away  rapidly,  soundlessly,  flashing.  I  don't  want  to  know  what's  hap-  pened,  but  as  we  leave  our  car  I  ask  a  tall  girl  about  it.  &quot;Someone  hurt,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;Sliding?&quot;   " b"&quot;Yes.  She  hurther  back.&quot;  &quot;Badly?&quot;  &quot;I  think  so.&quot;  We  enter  the  country-club  grounds  through  a  break  in  a  stone  wall.  David  is  hanging  back.  He  says,  &quot;Daddy.  Please  look  at  me.  Is  someone  killed?  We're  not  killed,  are  we.  Daddy,  I  don't  want  to  go.  I  don't  want  to  go  sliding.&quot;  &quot;Nothing  will  happen  to  you.  You'll  like  it,  you'll  see.&quot;  Until  now,  David  has  only  been  sliding  down  our  slightly  inclined  front  lawn  with  his  reluctant  mother.  &quot;No,  Daddy.  I  don't  want  to.  You  go,  and  I'll  stand  down  here  and  wait  for  you.&quot;  I'm  holding  his  hand  and  I  pull  him  along  as  gently  as  I  can.  The  place  is  crowded  with  people,  big  and  little,  mostly  young.  There  is  a  lot  of  color,  motion.  The  snow  is  crusty  on  top,soft  un-  derneath.  We  tramp  through  it.  I  look  forward  to  sliding.  David  is  crying.  &quot;I  want  to  go  home,&quot;  he  says.  Almost  halfway  up  the  hill,  I  stop,  turn  around,  point  the  sled  downhill,  set  David  before  me  on  the  sled,  and  sit  down.  He  struggles.  I  kiss  him  and  speak  softly  into  his  ear,  &quot;It  will  be  O.K.&quot;  We  start  to  move.  The  snow  here  isn't  packed  down  yet,  and  so  we  &quot;Oops,  sorry!  Wrong  room!&quot;  go  slowly.  We  pick  up  a  little  speed,  and  I  begin  laughing.  I'm  laughing  out  loud  near  the  bottom  of  the  hill.  David  looks  back  at  me,  peers  up  around  his  red-and-blue  stocking  hat,  starts  laughing.  We  are  laughing  to-  gether  when  the  sled  stops.  &quot;Oh,  Daddy,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Let's  do  it  again.&quot;  &quot;You  don't  want  to  go  home?&quot;  &quot;I  want  to  slide.&quot;  We  walk  to  thetop  of  the  hill.  It's  windless  but  very  cold,  the  sky  is  bright  blue,  the  sun  stands  burning  before  us.  A  lot  of  people  are  going  down,  two  and  three  and  four  at  a  time.  There  are  regular  sleds,  toboggans,  discs,  plastic  strips.  David  is  jittery,  but  I  talk  to  himand  hug  himand  convince  him  that  it's  all  right.  The  snow  is  packed  hard  here,  and  we  glide  swiftly,  hit  a  few  moguls,  bounce,  shoot  down  the  hill.  We  are  laughing  out  loud.  &quot;Again,  Daddy,  again!&quot;  We  make  many  runs.  At  the  top,  we  serenely  survey  the  snowy  world.  I  take  out  chocolate  bars  and  we  stand  to-  gether  in  the  snow  and  share  them.  We  get  on  the  sled  and  start  slow,  then  rush  down.  Our  faces  are  close  together.  He's  laughing,  his  red  lips  pulled  back,  his  white  teeth  gleam-  ing.  We  reach  the  bottom.  I  stand  and  tell  David  it's  time  to  go.  &quot;Once  more,  Daddy,  please?&quot;  We  make  one  more  run.  The  moon  is  coming  up  behind  us,  huge,  silvery  in  the  east  above  the  hill.  Before  us,  the  fiery  sun  is  just  beginning  to  set.  We  walk  to  the  car  in  blue  shadows.  My  feet  are  wetand  cold,  but  I  don't  mind.  David's  cheeks  are  scarlet.  He  says,  &quot;Let's  do  this  again,  all  right?  Let's  come  here  and  slide  again.&quot;  &quot;We  will.  Do  you  want  some  more  chocolate?&quot;  (\xe2\x80\x98N0.)\xe2\x80\x99  &quot;Are  you  sure?&quot;  &quot;I'm  not  hungry.&quot;  I'm  not,  either.  "