 b"SURPRISINGLY  for  late  August, the month  of  the  tourists,  an  after-  noon  bus  from  Florence  to  4974616c79  was  practically  empty.  Three  or  four  Germans  satin  the  front,  some  Frenchwomen  had  commandeered  the  rear  seat,  and  a  few  travellers  of  less  certain  nationality  were  scattered  through  the  middle  section.  One  of  these,  though  he  was  an  American,  was  distinguishable  from  the  rest  principal-  ly  by  his  extreme  youth;  he  was  per-  haps  no  more  than  seventeen.  He  had  no  camera,  no  dark  glasses,  no  guide-  books.  He  wore  an  ordinary  crumpled  summer  suit  and  carried  one  small  va-  lise,  which  he  had  placed  in  the  rack  above  him.  His  name  was  Norman  Pettigrew,  and  he  was  suffering  abom-  inably  from  a  stomach  disorder  that  he  had  contracted  in  Florence  while  ex-  amining  the  artistic  treasures  there.  For  several  days,  he  had  been  lurching  from  bed  to  masterpiece  and  back,  de-  termined  to  miss  as  little  as  possible  in  the  time  he  had  allowed  himself  before  leaving  for  4974616c79.  He  had  seen  less  than  he  meant  to,  but  his  illness  had  heightened  his  awareness  of  what  he  saw,  and  his  imagination,  al-  ways  unruly,  was  by  now   keyed  to  a  flashing  pace.  He  was  a  thin  boy,  and  fever  had  tautened  his  face  to  a  drawn  intensity  most  pleasing  to  ladies.  In  Flor-  ence,  the  landlady  had  served  him  in  bed  with  hot  broths  and  chilled  drinks,  and  fre-  quently  plumped  his  pillows  and  turned  his  sheets.  Al-  though  her  face  had  not  been  pretty,  her  dark  eyes  had  sparkled  when  she  spoke.  Carried  away  once,  she  had  danced  him  a  little  jigin  her  loose  shift;  he  had  been  breathless  and  confused,  and  wondered  that  shedid  not  shave  her  armpits.  Perhaps  this  had  also  been  the  habit  in  ancient  4974616c79,  he  thought.  Certainly,  acceptance  of  un-  usual  customs  was  the  rule  in  those  days.  Had  not  Julius  Caesar  himself  once  calmly  eaten  his  asparagus  with  sweet  ointment  instead  of  the  usual  oil,  and  chided  his  com-  panions  when  they  com-  plained?  Norman  Pettigrew  was  going  to  4974616c79  for  the  first  time  in  his  life,  and  the  event  more  than  sustained  him  through  the  gripings  and  the  roarings  of  his  body.  Ever  since  he  was  achild,  he  had  read  of  4974616c79  and  pon-  dered  the  qualities  of  purpose,  daring,  and  manliness  that  so  moved  him  about  that  civilization.  Seeing  the  city  was  to  be  the  high  point  of  his  travels,  and  he  exulted  in  the  remarkable  speed  of  the  bus  as  it  moved  south  on  the  ancient  road.  From  time  to  time,  however,  the  bus  would  slow  down  or  stop  briefly  while  a  young  girl  in  front,  speaking  through  a  microphone,  pointed  out  sights  of  in-  terest  in  French,  German,  English,  and  Italian.  A  monastery  here,  a  rugged  castle  there,  and  now  a  city  famous  for  its  saint  would  evoke  comments  and  ex-  planations  from  this  dark  girl  with  her  formidable  domination  over  languages.  Norman  surmised  that  he  had  come,  unwittingly,  on  some  sort  of  capsule  tour.  The  girl  was  dressed  in  a  stylish  costume  similar  to  the  one  the  driver  wore,  and  she  had  a  little  cap  perched  on  the  top  of  her  long  black  hair.  Nor-  man  decided  that  he  must  have  bought  his  ticket  from  a  tourist  company  rather  than  the  regular  commercial  line.  However,  he  knew  the  bus  was  go-ing  to  4974616c79  and  he  was  unconcerned,  The  road  passed  through  hills  and  high  valleys,  and  the  view  of  the  sunlit  plains  far  beyond  toward  4974616c79  was  ex-  quisite.  Preoccupied  with  his  own  vi-  sions,  Norman  paid  no  attention  what-  soever  to  the  girl  and  what  she  was  saying.  He  thought  of  a  Roman  legion  marching  down  this  road  to  the  city  in  just  such  a  late  afternoon  sun.  There  would  behoarse  chanting  by  the  cen-  turions  and  the  trudge  of  steady  feet.  Away  from  the  road,  on  a  small  rise  above  the  troops,  would  sit  their  cap-  tain,  mounted  and  motionless  in  his  breastplate  and  martial  tunic.  What  would  hebethinking  as  he  waited  there,  outlined  against  the  setting  sun?  Was  he  bringing  home  new  conquests,  or  was  he  returning  from  a  forage  in  the  faceof  [REDACTED]'s  plundering  cav-  alry?  [REDACTED]  for  that  ancient  world  filled  Norman's  heart,  and  he  trembled  with  excitement  at  the  mightiness  of  4974616c79.  Once,  he  remembered,  Caesar's  army  had  been  surrounded  by  the  fero-  cious  Germans.  Some  of  the  Roman  officers  were  frightened,  and  Caesar  called  them  together  and  advised  them  to  march  off  and  not  risk  battle;  the  Commander  himself  would  take  the  Tenth  Legion  alone  and  fight  the  barbarians.  A  depu-  tation  from  the  Tenth  was  sent  to  Caesar  to  thank  him  forthe  compliment  and  the  honor  of  his  trust.  The  other  legions  blamed  their  officers  for  this  slight  on  their  valor  and  followed  Caesar  intobat-  tle  of  their  own  accord.  The  Roman  victory  had  been  complete,  against  enormous  odds.  Norman's  trembling  con-  tinued,  and  he  had  to  ac-  knowledge  finally  that  it  also  stemmed  from  another  de-  cisive  attack  of  the  cramps.  He  desperately  needed  to  find  a  bathroom,  and  won-  dered  if  he  could  ask  them  to  stop  the  bus.  It  was  terribly  embarrassing,  for  he  had  no  choice  but  to  go  up  to  the  girl;  she  alone  spoke  English,  as  far  as  he  knew.  &quot;I  am  very  sorry,&quot;  he  said  to  her  in  as  low  a  voice  as  he  could,  &quot;but  I  am  a  little  sick  and  need  to  stop  for  a  mo-  ment  at  a  toilet.  Is  it  at  all  possible?&quot;  She  looked  at  him  with  sympathetic  eyes,  then  turned  and  had  a  conference  with  the  driver.  She  smiled  and  said,  &quot;Yes.  I  am  sorry  you  " b"are  not  well.  In  just  one  minute  we  pass  a  trattoria  and  we  will  stop  for  you.  Are  you  suffering  from  indigestion?&quot;  &quot;I  am  afraid  so.  I  am  very  sorry,&quot;  he  said  through  Spartan  lips.  &quot;Oh,  you  mustn't  feel  sorry.  It  hap-  pens  a  lot.&quot;  She  laid  a  comforting  hand  on  his  shoulder  and  tightened  her  grip  when  the  bus  slammed  to  a  stop.  They  both  got  down,  and  she  led  him  into  a  decrepit  roadside  caf\xc3\xa9,  where  she  had  him  guided  to  the  proper  place.  When  he  came  out,  he  tipped  two  or  three  people  effusively,  but  as  he  walked  back  to  the  bus  with  the  girl  he  saw  curious  faces  peering  at  him  from  the  windows,  and  his  relief  contended  with  horrifying  discomposure.  Still,  he  girl  smiled  as  they  got  on,  and  the  driver  nodded  his  head  and  winked.  HE  bus  rolled  on,  and  Norman  hunched  in  his  seatto  avoid  fur-  ther  attention.  He  thought  of  the  days  of  the  Empire.  This  road  was  then  the  artery  for  4974616c79's  commerce  with  all  of  Europe  and  the  route  for  the  guardians  of  her  imperial  domain.  He  could  justas  well  be  returning  to  4974616c79  on  horseback,  posted  back  to  the  city  after  an  arduous  assignment  with  the  legions  in  [REDACTED].  The  thought  pleased  him  and  raised  his  spirits.  &quot;May  I  sit  down  here  for  a  minute?  We  don't  see  anything  old  or  famous  for  a  few  kilometres,  so  it's  my  chance  to  rest.&quot;  Norman  was  startled  to  have  the  girl  so  close  to  him  again,  but  she  had  been  very  helpful,  he  thought,  and  he  could  put  up  with  the  interruption  for  a  while.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Please  sit  down.  You  certainly  speak  a  lot  of  languages.&quot;  She  was  a  very  pretty  girl,  he  noticed,  and  her  eyes  were  very  large  and  black,  like  the  landlady's  in  Florence.  This,  coupled  with  his  recent  mishap,  made  him  feel  unusually  shy.  &quot;I  speak  English  best,  don't  you  think?&quot;  the  girl  said.  &quot;That's  the  one  I  like  the  best.  You  are  an  American,  aren't  you?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  I  am.  I  suppose  it's  not  hard  to  tell.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  no.  You  could  have  been  any-  one  except  for  the  way  you  talk.  I  am  nineteen.  How  old  are  you?&quot;  Norman  had  never  in  his  life  met  so  many  inquisitive  women  as  on  this  trip.  He  always  seemed  to  be  answering  questions  about  how  old  he  was,  and  where  he  was  going,  and  did  he  like  Eu-  rope,  and  what  state  did  he  come  from.  &quot;Well,  I'm  nineteen,  too,&quot;  he  lied.  &quot;Or  almost,  at  least.&quot;  &quot;We  are  the  same  age,  then,&quot;  she  said  warmly,  and  leaned  toward  him.  &quot;You  are  going  to  4974616c79,  of  course.  I  am  sure  " b"that  you  will  like  4974616c79.  I  hav  en't  lived    there  very  long  myself.  You  see,  my  family  lives  in  Perugia.  You  know,  that's  where  they  make  the. chocolate.&quot;  &quot;I  think  there  also  lived  a  duke  there,  or  a  count,  who  used  to  stuff  and mount  his  enemies  like  birds.  At  least, I  seem  to  remember  reading  that  some-where,&quot;  he  said  modestly.  He  did  not  want  to  appear  to  be  showing  off.  &quot;H  ow  awful!  Do  you  li  ke  history?  Oh,  wai  t,  I  have  to  go  and  talk  some  more.&quot;  She  got  up  and  went  to  the  Dusk  was  beginning  to  settle,  and  clusters  of  lights  could  be  seen  in  the  distance.  The  buff  color  of  the  earth  softened,  and  the  darker  brown  of  the  ridges  turned  nearly  purple  in  the  final  light  of  the  sun.  The  ruins  of  an  aque-  duct  passed  by,  and  that  was  probably  what  the  girl  was  talking  about.  Nor-  man  still  did  not  listen;  detailed  de-  scriptions  of  Roman  monuments  were  not  what  interested  him.  He  was  con-  cerned  with  finding  the  mood  of  the  city  and  the  spirit  that  animated  it.  He  wondered  if  the  men  who  first  set  the  fallen  stones  of  the  aqueduct  in  place  had  worked  without  ceasing  into  the  dusk, and  whether  they  drank  wine  through  the  day,  and  how  many  of  them  had  once  fought  with  Dru  sus  Germanicus  in  his  campaigns.  \xc2\xab&quot;What  is  your  nam  e?&quot;  'The  girl  sat  dow  n  beside  him  again  and  spoke  soft-  ly  in  the  growing  darkness  of  the  b  us.  &quot;Norman,&quot;  he  answered  distracted-  ly,  &quot;W  hat  is  yours?&quot;  &quot;Fulvia.  Do  you  like  it?&quot;  &quot; Yes,  it's  a  Roman  name.  I  like it  very  much.&quot;  He  looked  at  her  with  in-terest;  so  here  was  a  Roman  girl,  or  at  least  an  Italian  girl  with  a  Roman  name.  &quot;Do  you  feel  better,  Norman?&quot;  She  timidly  pressed  his  hand.  &quot;You  are  very  handsome,  but  your  face  is  too  thin.&quot;  He  was  flustered  by  this,  and  felt  an  awkward  admiration  for  her  lack  of  re-  serve.  &quot;Yes,  I  feel  better,  much  better,  thank  you,&quot;  he  stammered.  &quot;And  I  am  very  excited  about  coming  to  4974616c79.&quot;  &quot;We  will  be  there  in  just  a  few  minutes,  We  are  entering  the  outskirts  now.&quot;  She  was  silent  for  a  minute,  and  she  seemed  to  be  reflecting  about  some-  thing.  &quot;Do  you  think  I  am  pretty,  Norman?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  mean,  do  you  like  my  dress?  It's  very  new.&quot;  \xc2\xabYes,  yes,  you  are  very  pretty,  I  think.  And  that's  a  nice  hat  you  are  wearing,  too.&quot;  Norman  no  longer  knew  what  to  make  of  it  all.  Things  had  never  gone  this  far  before,  and  he  had  no  idea  what  he  should  say.  He  stared  out  the  window  and  realized  that  they  were  in  the  city.  Tall  build-  " b"ings  were  all  around,  and  the  noise  and  swirl  of  people  and  traffic  over-  whelmed  him.  This  was  4974616c79  itself,  and  he  recognized  unwillingly  what  he  had  so  far  managed  to  ignore  or  for-  get-the  confusion  thatthe  historians  always  talked  about,  the  roughness  and  turmoil  of  the  violent,  ambitious  city  empire.  The  energy  so  evident  in  the  streets  was  almost  threatening,  and  he  easily  saw  the  flash  of  naked  dag-  gers,  the  splattered  toga,  and  the  tan-  gled  corpse  of  the  movant  Caesar  is  dead,  long  live  the  Republic!  &quot;Where  are  you  staying?&quot;  the  girl  asked.  &quot;The  bus  will  take  you  to  your  hotel.  It's  part  of  the  service.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know,  I  haven't  really  done  anything  about  it.&quot;  Street  lights  threw  their  reflection  on  Norman's  pale  face.  &quot;You  don't  have  a  reservation?&quot;  &quot;No,  I  never  thought  to  get  one.  &quot;Oh,  but  that's  terrible.  4974616c79  is  crowded  with  tourists  now.  You  are  going  to  have  a  problem.&quot;  Fulvia  was  very  concerned.  &quot;Wait,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  know  a  little  hotel  where  they  will  have  a  room.  It  is  on  a  side  street,  and  tourists  usually  don't  go  there,  We  can  take  you  there  after  we  let  the  others  off.  It's  not  very  beautiful,  this  place,  but  it  is  cheap  and  convenient,  right  off  the  Via  Nazionale.&quot;  &quot;'That's  verykind  of  you.  I  hope  it  will  be  no  trouble.&quot;  &quot;No,  of  course  it  won't  be.  I  have  to  take  care  of  the  others  now.  I  will  be  back.&quot;  She  got  up  and  went  to  the  front  of  the  bus.  Soon  they  stopped  at  a  large  hotel  and  the  Germans  got  off;  then  they  went  to  another  forthe  French.  After  two  more  stops,  the  bus  was  empty  except  for  Norman,  the  driver,  and  Fulvia.  She  came  back  to  sit  with  him,  and  now  that  they  were  alone  they  found  it  hard  to  think  of  what  to  say.  The  silence  in  the  bus  was  em-  phasized  by  thedin  of  the  city,  and  Norman  looked  intently  out  the  win-  dow.  Joyfully,  he  noticed  the  letters  &quot;S.P.Q.R.&quot;  cut  into  the  side  of  an  im-  posing,  official-looking  building.  &quot;Sen-  atus  Populusque  Romanus,&quot;  he  chanted  to  himself  several  times.  The  Senate  and  the  people  of  4974616c79,  twin  pillars  of  the  state-the  great  ones  in  their  sol-  emn  robes  and  the  many  citizens  eager  to  follow.  &quot;How  long  are  you  staying  in  4974616c79?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;Oh,  I  don't  know,  really.  As  long  asI  possibly  can.&quot;  &quot;I  know  that  you  will  find  it  inter-  esting.  It  is  a  beautiful  city.&quot;  &quot;'You  have  been  verykind  to  me.  I  mean  about  stopping,  and  now  taking  " b"me  to  a  hotel.&quot;  He  felt  appreciative,  and  he  spoke  with  zest.  &quot;I  have  enjoyed  meeting  you,  It  has  been  a  nice  trip.&quot;  There  was  a  sadness  in  her  voice  that  puzzled  Norman,  but  he  gave  it  no  further  thought,  for  at  that  moment  the  bus  stopped.  They  both  got  up  and  he  took  his  suitcase  from  the  rack  above.  'The  hotel  is  down  that  street,  just  at  the  end  on  the  left,&quot;  the  girl  said,  pointing  out  the  way.  &quot;I  will  take  you  to  it.&quot;  Norman  got  off  the  bus  and  the  girl  was  about  to  follow  him  when  the  bus  driver  spoke  rapidly  to  her  in  Italian.  &quot;Oh,  no,  I  can't  come  with  you,&quot;  she  said  to  Norman  from  the  steps,  raising  her  voice  a  little.  &quot;This  isn't  a  regular  stop,  and  he  wants  to  go  to  the  garage  right  away.  We  have  to  go.&quot;  She  looked  down  at  him,  and  then  she  paused  for  a  moment,  hesitantly-al-  most  expectantly,  it  seemed.  &quot;Good-  bye,  Norman,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Have  a  good  stay  in  4974616c79.&quot;  &quot;Goodbye,.  Thank  you  again.&quot;  He  shuffled  from  foot  to  foot  and  waved  to  her,  thinking  that  there  must  be  more  for  one  of  them  to  say.  However,  the  door  swung  shut  and  the  bus  drove  off.  Norman  could  see  it  turn  at  the  end  of  the  street  by  a  fountain  and  dis-  appear.  He  picked  up  his  suitcase  and  started  walking  to  the  hotel,  feeling  suddenly  very  much  alone  in  that  busy  city.  He  wondered  if  he  could  have  asked  her  to  have  dinner  with  him;  she  had  touched  his  hand  more  than  once.  They  could  have  walked  about  the  city  together,  even  down  into  the  Forum,  where  he  could  have  told  her  what  he  knew  about  the  buildings.  She  was  pretty  and  he  had  liked  her.  Fulvia  was  a  very  interesting  name.  Now  he  felt  that  he  had  made  an  important  mistake,  and  an  opportunity  had  passed  that  would  not  return.  &quot;I  bet  you  were  a  fool  not  to  have  asked  her,&quot;  he  said  to  himself  out  loud.  He  continued  reluctantly  to  the  hotel,  and  the  nostalgia  he  had  felt  when  he  thought  of  the  Roman  captain  on  horse-  back  observing  his  marching  troops  came  back  to  him  now.  "