 b"I FIRST  saw  Liliane,  my  cousin,  at  one  of  the  few  old  estate  houses  left  in  Dominica-a  baby  a  few  weeks  old.  She  was  dark,  small,  and  silent,  except  that  every  now  and  again  she  would  wail,  a  thin,  strange  cry,  as  if  she  were  protesting  being  born.  I  was  told  that  she  was  very  delicate  and  not  expected  to  live,  and  I  remember  my  grandmother  saying  something  about  the  sins  of  the  fathers  being  visited  on  the  children.  My  grandmother  was  full  of  these  threatening  Biblical  quotations,  though  I  don't  think  that  she  was  at  all  a  religious  woman.  Soon  after  this  I  left  the  island  for  [REDACTED]  and  school.  I  met  Liliane  again  in  a  [REDACTED]  Lucia  hotel  during  my  first  visit  to  the  West  Indies  for  many  years.  She  was  then  in  her  twenties-a  tall,  energetic  girl  in  spite  of  my  grandmother's  prophe-  cies.  I  had  lost  touch  with  many  of  my  West  Indian  relatives,  and  I  heard  for  the  first  time  of  her  family's  changed  circumstances.  Her  father  had  died  suddenly,  leaving  very  little  mon-  ey,  and  his  widow  and  three  children  were  obliged  to  give  up  the  estate.  The  son,  who  was  called  Don,  joined  very  composedly  in  talk  about  their  future  plans.  Then  oneday  he  got  up  from  the  table  at  the  end  of  the  meal,  went  intothe  bedroom,  and  shot  himself.  There  were  various  explanations  of  this.  When  in  [REDACTED],  he'd  been  anxious  to  join  the  Navy.  Perhaps  he  had  failed  an  exam  and  was  unable  to  forget  it.  Perhaps  he  suddenly  saw  what  his  future  life  would  be  and  couldn't  face  it.  Anyway,  that  was  the  end  of  Don.  He  was  eighteen.  His  mother,  whom  I  remembered  so  well  as  pretty  Evelina,  went  back  to  [REDACTED]  Lucia,  the  island  where  she  was  born,  with  her  two  daughters.  There  she  met  an  English  woman  who,  plan-  ning  to  start  a  hotel  outside  Castries,  befriended,  or  perhaps  made  use  of,  the  entire  family.  Intelligent  Liliane  was  the  cashier,  pretty  Monica  the  recep-  tionist,  Evelina  the  manageress,  who  dealt  with  the  staff  and  the  food,  for  she  knew  a  lot  about  real  French  Creole  cooking,  which  can  be  deli-  cious.  We  stayed  several  weeks  at  this  ho-  tel,  and  I  found  it  very  attractive.  I  was  happy  there.  One  afternoon  when  I  asked  for  tea,  the  tray  was  brought  up  to  my  room  by  a  woman  dressed  in  the  old  fashion,  in  what  used  to  be  called  the  gromde  robe-a  long,  gaily  colored  high-waisted  dress,  a  turban,  and  heavy  gold  earrings.  It  was  the  past  majestically  walking  in.  I  did  not  see  very  much  of  Liliane.  It  was  Monica  who  told  me  about  her  long,  lonely  walks  at  night-she  often  didn't  come  back  till  dawn,  though  she  was  at  work  early-and  that  she  edit-  ed  a  magazine,  writing  all  the  stories,  callingherself  by  different  names:  &quot;Lady  Amelia,&quot;  &quot;Onlooker,&quot;  and  so  on.  But  there  was  usually  a  short  poem,  which  she  signed  with  her  ini-  tials,  L.  L.  I  remember  one  about  English  Harbour  in  Antigua,  once  Nelson's  headquarters  but  then  in  ruins,  not  yet  dolled  up  for  tourists,  and  supposed  to  be  haunted  by  a  Lieu-  tenant  Peterson:  a  long  romance  about  Lieutenant  Peterson,  wicked  Lord  Camelford,  Captain  Best,  and  a  masked  ball,  belonging  more  to  the  old  West  Indies  than  to  the  West  Indies  as  it  is  now.  I  was  back  in  [REDACTED]  when  I  had  a  letter  from  Liliane,  tell-  ing  me  of  Monica's  death:  the  old  story-a  young  Englishman  to  whom  she  was  engaged  had  left  the  island  without  explanation.  When  it  became  obvious  that  he  wasn't  going  to  write  or  return,  she  went  to  bed  and  was  dead  in  a  couple  of  weeks.  For  Evelina  this  was  one  misfortune  too  many,  and  she  gave  up  and  died  soon  afterward.  Liliane,  the  survivor,  wrote  that  she  was  coming  to  [REDACTED],  and  it  was  there  that  I  met  her  and  got  to  know  more  ofher.  SHE  was  a  strange  girl,  shying  away  from  any  attempt  to  help  her,  in-  sisting  that  what  she  did  was  her  own  business  and  no  one  else's.  I  have  never  known  anyone  who  kept  her  contacts  with  other  people  so  formal.  She  never  said  &quot;I'll  come  tomorrow afternoon&quot;  but  &quot;I'll  be  with  you  tomorrow  at  a  quarter  to  four  and  I'll  leave  at  half  past  five.&quot;  So  it  would  be.  She  had  found  a  job,  she  told  me,  and  some-  thing  about  her  voice  made  me  sure  it  wasn't  a  well-paid  job,  or  one  she  liked  or  wished  to  talk  about.  She  lived  in  a  small  bed-sitting-room  beyond  Hampstead.  In  one  corner  was  a  silver  tea  service  brought  from  the  West  Indies.  Also,  to  my  surprise,  she  had  the  portrait  of  Old  Lockhart,  her  great-grandfather  and  mine,  who  had  arrived  in  the  West  Indies  at  the  end  of  the  eighteenth  century.  He  stared  as  blankly  as  ever.  It  was  impossible  to  know  whether  he  was  a  bad  man  or  a  good  man  lied  about,  or  someone  who  just  did  what  everyone  else  did  without  thinking  too  much  about  it.  The  Spanish  great-grandmother,  whom  I'd  always  been  so  curious  about,  wasn't  there.  Liliane  didn't  talk  much  about  her  past  or  the  West  Indies  but  did  talk  a  good  deal  about  her  love  for  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  and  the  Royal  Fam-  ily.  Someone  once  said  of  her,  &quot;I  can't  keep  my  face  straight  when  I'm  talk-  ing  to  that  old  Rip  Van  Winkle.&quot;  &quot;Be  patient  with  her-she's  anachronism,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;But  such  a  damn  bore.&quot;  Underneath  all  this  she  could  be  gay  and  full  of  life,  and  almost  crazily  generous  with  the  little  money  she  had.  After  I  went  to  live  in  the  country,  she  would  say  that  she  was  the  Lon-  doner  now,  I  a  visitor  and  her  guest.  She  as  hostess  must  pay  for  all  our  out-  ings.  It  needed  a  lot  of  arguing  to  con-  vince  her  that  that  wasn't  how  I  saw  it  at  all.  One  day  she  told  me  that  she  had  sold  one  of  her  poems.  &quot;Dorinda  isn't  mine  anymore&quot;  is  how  she  put  it.  &quot;I've  sold  Dorinda.&quot;  So  she  still  writes  poetry,  I  thought.  She  gave  me  a  copy  of  the  poem.  an  My  name  is  Dorinda  and  I  live  so  gay  In  a  little  hut  with  flowers  on  a  shilling  a  day.  The  white  man  made  me  but  he  cannot  tell  The  secret  of  my  laughter  like  a  golden  bell.  My  name  is  Dorinda  and  I  live  so  gay  In  a  little  hut  with  flowers  on  a  shilling  a  day.  The  black  man  made  me  but  he'll  never  know  The  secret  of  my  dark  heart  which  he  made  so.  As  we  got  to  know  each  other  bet-  ter,  she  showed  me  other  poems.  I  often  wondered  when  she  wrote  them.  After  she  came  back  tired  from  the  office  to  her  little  bed-sitting-room?  Or  on  Sun-  " b"days-did  she  walk  about  Hampstead  Heath  to  the  tune  of  &quot;Trinidad  Se-  lina&quot;?  Watch  her  walkin'  and  stop  your  talkin'  Seeher  dancin'-she  dances  on  air.  I  was  certain  that  some  of  her  songs  were  salable,  and  I  knew  how  badly  she  needed  the  money,  but  Ididn't  know  how  to  set  about  selling  them.  Even  if  by  some  miracle  someone  liked  the  words,  wouldn't  they  be  set  to  the  wrong  music  and  spoiled?  Also,  Lili-  ane  wasn't  encouraging.  She  seemed  not  to  have  the  slightest  wish  to  make  money  out  of  poems-even  to  be  some-  what  hostile  to  the  idea.  It  was  as  if  she  meant  to  keep  them  to  herself,  to  protect  them,  and  I  understood  this  far  too  well  to  argue  with  her.  I  DIDN'T  go  to  [REDACTED]  for  some  time  after  that.  Then  I  heard  from  afriend  that  she  wasn't  at  all  well.  1d  noticed  it  the  last  time  I'd  seen  her.  All  the  spring  and  pride  had  gone  out  of  her  walk-she  had  walked  beautifully  when  she  first  came  to  [REDACTED]-and  she  rarely  smiled,  which  was  a  pity,  be-  cause  her  white,  even  teeth  were  her  greatest  beauty.  *  The  last  time  I  saw  her,  she  showed  me  a  poem.  &quot;This  is  different,&quot;  she  said.  Unlike  the  others,  it  was  a  sad  song,  about  a  man  who  kills  his  sweet-  heart,  hides  her  body  in  the  Dominica  forest,  and  escapes  to  [REDACTED]  before  she  is  missed.  But  he  cannot  forget  her.  Devil  made  me  lash  her  down,  devil  made  me  kill.  Sorrow  made  me  leave  her  Now  she's  dark  in  Dominica  And  I'm  lonely  in  the  snow.  ...  I  wish  I  were  beside  her,  where  the  mountains  hide  her.  For  the  whistling  bird  is  calling  me.  She  said,  &quot;The  whistling  bird-you  remember.  The  mountain  whistler?&quot;  &quot;Of  course.&quot;  &quot;My  mother  called  it  the  siffeur  de  montagne,  le  solitaire.  I  expect  there  aren't  any  left  now.&quot;  &quot;Perhaps  a  few.&quot;  &quot;What  about  the  parrots?  Long  ago  the  forest  was  full  of  parrots,  green  and  gray.  There  isn't  one  now.&quot;  &quot;Parrots,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;are  different.  There's  money  in  parrots.  Who'd  buy  a  mountain  whistler?  If  it  were  caught,  it  would  probably  die.&quot;  &quot;Not  at  once,&quot;  said  Liliane.  After  thinking  a  lot  about  her,  I  wrote  and  begged  her  to  take  a  holi-  day,  enclosing  some  money  to  help.  She  wrote  back  coldly,  returning  the  money  and  adding  that  I  must  know  that  she  didn't  want  to  leave  [REDACTED]  and  didn't  need  a  holiday.  I  decided  that  when  I  saw  her  next  I  would  argue  her  into  taking  one  all  the  same,  Then  I  heard  that  one  morning  she'd  got  up,  had  her  usual  obligatory  tepid  bath,  and  was  dressing  to  go  to  her  horrible  job,  when  she  fell.  The  landlady  heard  the  noise  and  rushed  to  her  bedroom.  She  was  dead.  After  all,  I  saw  comparatively  little  of  Liliane.  She  may  have  had  other  friends,  another  life  that  I  didn't  know  about,  But  I  never  caught  a  glimpse  of  it.  &quot;Woe  to  the  vanquished,&quot;  they  say.  Need  it  be  so  much  woe  and  last  such  a  long  time?  Anyhow,  not  Don,  not  Monica,  not  Evelina,  not  Liliane  will  join  in  that  complicated  argument.  For  it  is  complicated,  whatever  the  know-  alls  say.  "