 b"BEFORE  last  week,  a  couple  of  noted  precursors  reached  the  postcursing  stage:  for  Java  Man  and  Java  Woman,  it  was  the  end  of  something.  &quot;We  met  in  a  tree,&quot;  recalled  J.M.,  &quot;and  just  totally  flipped  over  each  other&quot;-but  then  came  twelve  and  a  half  years  of  rough-and-tumble.  &quot;We  did  the  whole  number,  the  bonking  on  the  head,  the  dragging  by  the  hair,  the  clawing  and  the  biting  and  the  names.  'Animal!'  'Troglodyte!'  You  know.  &quot;Finally  it  dawned  on  us  this  was  getting  us  nowhere.  'After  all,'  we  said,  'we  are  two  fully  upright  adults.  Let's  start  acting  like  hominids.  Now  I  think  we  know  each  other  better.  Because  weknow  ourselves  better.  And  we  realize  we  are  two  very  dif-  ferent  people.&quot;  So  with  jaws  still  ajut  and  brows  still  ridged,  but  personally  more  to-  gether,  the  Javas  announced  their  sep-  aration.  Observed  J.W.,  who  under  terms  of  the  settlement  will  keep  the  cave  and  brood  (he,  the  club):  &quot;We  were  both  evolving  all  the  time.  It's  hard  on  a  relationship.&quot;  Heliogabalus.  Jacob  Riis.  Magellan.  Oswald  Jacoby.  Luke.  Some  millennia  the  third  and  sec-  ond  B.C.  turned  out  to  be  for  those  Sumerians!  'That's  the  invention-of-  writing  people.  In  the  old  oral  days,  &quot;ha&quot;  had  meant  &quot;fish;&quot;  then  came  cuneiform,  and  the  fish  symbol  meant  &quot;ha.&quot;  No  problem-until  the  Sumeri-  ans'  northern  neighbors  passed  from  barbarism  to  civilization.  If  you  write,  you  share.  The  Su-  merians,  whose  lower-Tigris-and-Eu-  phrates  stomping  grounds  lacked  stone  and  metal,  turned  the  new  crowd  on  to  Fish  and  Owl  and  all  the  other  symbols,  Pretty  soon  everybody  was  cuneiforming-and  there  were  no  more  Sumerians  to  speak  of,  They'd  been  absorbed.  &quot;'They  had  the  first  'ha,'&quot;  quipped  an  absorbent  Akkadian  as  he  hooked  up  a  nice  chunk  of  metal  to  a  likely  block  of  stone.  &quot;But  we  got  the  last  laugh.&quot;  Eug\xc3\xa9ne  Sue,  Tito  Fuentes,  Helena  Blavatsky,  Georg  Simon  Ohm.  And  I.  You  heard  me.  I.  I,  by  the  standards  of  tidbit  journalism,  may  not  be  a  &quot;person.&quot;  I  may  not  be  &quot;notable.&quot;  But  I  am  a...  consideration,  I  oc-  cupy  space,  I  breathe,  black  out,  ex-  perience  systole,  diastole,  longing,  and  a  &quot;zimmezimme&quot;  sound  in  my  ears  that  I  can't  quite  identify.  I  go  home  at  night  and  face  Ciel,  and  little  Uwe  and  Honor\xc3\xa9  and  Willadean  and  Um-  bra  and  Fleming  and  Pud  and  the  dog  Tippy  and  old  Uncle  Pancoast  and  our  life  together.  I  voted  for  Kropotkin  in  the  recent  mayoral  contest.  And  I  write  the  items.  Remember  that  tooth  dislodged  from  Hammurabi  by  Babylon's  then-  minister  of  brick  during  their  late-night  &quot;all  in  fun'&quot;  bout  of  tackle-the-man-  with-the-tablet?  Well,  it  seems  the  tooth  will  not  be  compensated  for  along  the  usual  lines.  According  to  a  government  spokesman,  the  code  does  not  apply  to  officially  recognized  sport-  ing  events.  In  any  case,  the  minister's  teeth  were  termed  &quot;much  smaller  and  browner&quot;  than  the  King's,  after  each  was  removed  and  considered.  'The  minister  was  reportedly  placed  under  777  new  bricks,  where  he  will  await  reassignment.  Maud  Gonne,  Mary  I,  George  Rom-  ney,  Jubal  Early,  Epaminondas  of  Thebes.  And  You?  Dear  idling  soft-news  reader.  Maybe  an  electrician?  Maybe  a  Burmese  woman?  With  soft  translu-cent  eyes?  You  can  reach  me  here  at  the  office.  We'll  meet,  we'll  talk,  we'll  grab  a  couple  of  Blimpies  and  get  out,  get  away  from  all  these  ...  snippets  of  vicarious  popularia.  This  &quot;people.&quot;  And  have  you  noticed  that  &quot;the  people&quot;  went  out  as  &quot;people&quot;  came  in?  Bringing  with  it  &quot;people  issues,&quot;  the  kind  of  person  who  describes  himself  as  &quot;a  people  person,&quot;  the  expression  &quot;he's  good  people,&quot;  and  the  neutron  bomb?  Or  have  I  lost  you  already?  Has  your  attention  span  been  brought  to  this-that  it  can  no  longer  take  in  more  than  thirty-five  words  without  a  name  and  a  slug  of  white  space  PPARENTLY  the  Yuletide  was  not  all  triumph  for  Charlemagne.  What  with  all  the  coronation  commo-  tion,  remarked  the  Holy  Roman  Em-  pire's  new  head,  his  family  didn't  get  a  chance  to  open  presents  together.  &quot;It  just  didn't  seem  like  Christmas,&quot;  he  has  confided  to  friends.  &quot;I  know  it  dis-  appointed  the  boys.&quot;  Vespasian,  Wolf  Mankowitz,  Eva  Marie  Saint,Li  Po,  Al  Lanier  of  Blue  Oyster  Cult.  Back  to  You.  Don't  just  sit  there  reading  with  yourhead  bent  forward:  bad  for  your  neck,  makes  you  look  like  a  serf.  Take  sides.  Let  them  go  at  it,  one  on  one,  and  tell  me,  who  do  you  like?  Gato  Barbieri  or  Lazarillo  De  Tormes?  Cher  or  Moussorgsky?  Lon  Nol  or  Hughie  (Ee-Yah)  Jennings?  To  this  observer,  it  is  Kropotkin  over  any  or  all,  though  Uncle  Pancoast  plumps  for  Thutmose  II.  What  of  Napoleon  Bonaparte?  The  former  French  emperor,  reached  in  Elba,  said  he  was  working  with  aides  on  his  forthcoming  memoirs,  stretch-  ing  his  24-inch-inseam  legs  with  daily  strolls  on  the  beach,  and  put-  tering  around  the  governor's  mansion.  &quot;Mais  maintenant,  il  faut  courir,'  he  concluded.  &quot;IL  faut  'cultiver  mon  jardin.  &quot;  Listen,  this  &quot;people&quot;  stuff  is  not  the  bargain  it  seems.  It's  fast  folks,  makes  its  way  into  the  bloodstream  like  bacon  substitute.  But-we  are  not  obliged  to  nibble  away  submissively  on  processed  &quot;people.&quot;  We  can  take  a  hand.  Pick  somebody-anybody:  Carmen  Basilio  ...  Saint  Crispin  ...  Leon  Trotsky.  'Think  about  him.  &quot;Oh,  yeah,  Trotsky-better-natured  kind  of  guy,  " b"wasn't  he,  than  Stalin?  Communist,  though.  Hit  with  an  ice  axe  in  Mexi-  co  ...  but  how'd  anybody  look  inno-  cent  carrying  around  an  ice  axe,  down  there,  oh  well  what  the  hell,  etc.,  etc.&quot;  And  on  to  the  next  &quot;person,&quot;  be  it  ElihuRoot,  Colley  Cibber,  Imre  Nagy,  Ned  Buntline,  Herod,  Julia  Ward  Howe,  Gorboduc,  or  August  Gneisenau.  But  wait  a  minute.  Would  you  have  hit  Leon?  If  so,  with  what?  We  headline  our  columns  &quot;Notes  on  People,&quot;  or  &quot;Newsmakers,&quot;  or  &quot;Names  ...  Faces,&quot;  but  are  these  in  fact  the  lowest  common  denominator?  Are  they  even  units?  In  the  process  of  some  random  paragraph's  filtration  through  your  household  perhaps  you  have  caught  a  glint  of  this  microbio-  logical  hypothesis:  that  all  of  us,  even  Henry  L.  Stimson,  have  been  host  or-  ganisms  for  that  master  race  by  which  we  are,  so  to  speak,  peopled-those  wee,  ineffably  knowing,  intimate,  un-  confrontable  intracellular  bodies  that  live  our  inner  lives,  even  carry  our  genes,  the  Mitochondria.  Are  the  Mitochondria  just  laughing  up  our  sleeves?  'They  must  have  hummed  to  themselves  while  those  sci-  entists  at  Brookhaven  National  Labo-  ratory  bred  a  person-plant:  cancer  cells  from  a  [REDACTED]  woman  fused  with  cells  of  hybrid  tobacco.  And  what  has  she/it  developed?  No  doubt  foliage,  ratiocination,  limited  enthusiasm  for  the  Orioles,  and  a  hacking  cough.  But  the  Mitochondria  don't  care:to  them  it's  just  a  kicky  new  split-level  home.  The  reunion  after  sixty  years  of  Dr.  Sigmund  Freud  with  his  school  soccer  team  was  a  hit  with  all  concerned  ex-  cept  Freud  himself  and  goaltender  Sandor  Ferenczi,  whom  Freud  stead-  fastly  maintained  he  didn't  remember,  even  after  Ferenczi  did  a  certain  droll  thing  with  his  ears  and  fingers  which  had  made  him  highly  popular  inschool,  then  donned  an  old  team  jersey  and  produced  a  ball  which  he  kicked  toward  the  father  of  psychoanalysis.  Freud  ignored  the  kick,  and  seemed  to  be  incensed  by  the  thing  with  the  ears  and  fingers.  Ferenczi  said  he  found  the  Freudian  lapse  &quot;interesting.&quot;  Ataturk.  Dana  X.  Bible.  O.  E.  Rol-  vaag.  Sacagawea.  His  &quot;Principle  of  Uncertainty&quot;  he  called  it,  in  no  uncertain  terms.  It  is  impossible  to  determine  exactly  and  simultaneously  both  the  position  and  the  momentum  of  any  body,  stated  Werner  Karl  Heisenberg,  thereby  weak-  ening  the  law  of  cause  and  effect.  &quot;What  makes  you  so  hot?&quot;  What  makes  you  so  sure?&quot;  exclaimed  a  po-  liceman  in  the  audience.  In  the  ensuing  confusion  a  series  of  shots  was  heard  which  struck  the  rostrum.  But  Heisenberg  was  gone.  Vasco  da  Gama.  Vaughn  Monroe.  Huey,  Dewey,  and  Louie.  It's  a  brand-new  White  House  pet  for  Amy  Carter:  a  baby  chimera  swapped  to  her  byan  unnamed  class-  mate.  'The  President's  daughter  would  not  reveal  to  reporters  either  the  quid  pro  quo  or  the  chimera's  name,  or  whether  it  liked  peanuts  or  understood  the  role  of  the  press.  Diderot.  Capucine.  I  slim.  I  put  on  weight.  My  belt  also  shrinks  and  stretches,  Ajax.  Alaric.  (I  sometimes  feel  that  someone  on  the  copy  desk  made  up  Al  Kaline  and  Dr.  Armand  Hammer  out  of  whole  cloth,  just  to  see  if  I  was  paying  attention.)  Bhutto.  Qaddafi.  I  am  paying  attention.  To  what  is  there.  To  what  is  not  there.  To  the  people  who  move  their  lips  con-  cerning  me,  perhaps  in  such  a  manner  that  I  can't  quite  make  out  the  words  or  the  tone.  'To  the  media.  Which  en-  gross  us  in  taglanguage,  which  take  us  for  granted,  which  never  remember  our  name.  Eugene  Delacroix.  -Roy  Jr.  "