 b"NOW  that  the  more  feisty  in  our  midst  have  left  the  table  and  gone  off  to  Plato's  Retreat  to  loosen  their  inhibitions,  perhaps  those  ofus  who  have  trouble  staying  awake  after  eleven  o'clock  would  care  to  loosen  theirstays  and  join  me  in  a  toast.  This  year,  friends,  happens  to  be  the  golden  anniversary  of  a  spot  where  nobody  hadany  trouble  staying  awake  after  eleven-a  nachtlokal  called  the  Parody  Club,  on  [REDACTED]'s  [REDACTED]  Forty-eighth  Street,  at  which  the  team  of  Clayton,  Jackson,  and  Durante  burst  into  glorious  flower  in  1928.  Since  its  patrons  were  packed  as  tight-  ly  as  sardines,  space  there  was  minimal,  but  in  what  was  left  such  disparate  connoisseurs  of  the  trio  as  Robert  Benchley,  Frank  Costello,  Edmund  Wilson,  and  John  Hay  Whitney  might  have  been  descried  rolling  on  the  floor,  overcome  by  mirth.  I  myself,  a  raw  youth  resolved  to  learn  all  of  Jimmy  Durante's  routines  by  heart,  was  near-bankrupt  from  attending  the  club  thrice  weekly,  while  my  betrothed  sat  by  aghast,  dreams  of  a  European  honeymoon  fading  as  I  cannibalized  her  dowry  to  pay  for  the  research.  Among  the  three  or  four  dozen  songs  and  monologues  the  audience  never  tired  of,  like  &quot;Jimmy,  the  Well-  Dressed  Man,&quot;  &quot;So  I  Ups  to  Him,&quot;  and  &quot;Shipwreck,&quot;  with  its  valiant  last  line,  &quot;Pull  for  the  horizon,  it's  better  than  nothing,&quot;  was  a  short  recitative  about  an  occasion  when  Durante  in-  nocently  came  into  conflict  with  the  law.  He  had  been  out  for  a  peaceful  stroll  with  his  wife  and  twelve  chil-  dren,  he  recounted,  when  a  policeman  suddenly  materialized  and  took  him  into  custody.  Durante  was  transfixed.  &quot;Under  arrest,  Officer?&quot;  he  stam-  mered.  &quot;What  for?  I  didn't  do  nothin'!&quot;  &quot;None  of  your  lip,&quot;  the  cop  retorted.  &quot;You  must  have  done  some-  thing,  with  that  crowd  follying  you.&quot;  Much  the  same  suspicion  flooded  into  my  mind  a  while  ago  about  the  defendant  in  a  Far  Eastern  trial  re-  ported  by  the  Times.  Headlined  &quot;117-  year-old  Malaysian  Guilty  in  'Living  out  of  Wedlock  Case,&quot;  the  story,  emanating  from  Kuala  Lumpur,  read:  &quot;A  Moslem  religious  court  has  re-  leased  a  117-year-old  Malaysian  man  on  probation  after  he  pleaded  guilty  to  living  out  of  wedlock  with  a  40-year-  old  woman.  It  was  his  third  convic-  tion  on  the  same  charge  with  the  same  woman,  court  officials  said.  The  court  fined  Lebai  Omar  Bin  Datuk  Pan-      glima  Garang  $80  at  the  hearing  yes-  terday.  Lebai  Omar  described  himself  as  a  teacher  of  'Silat,'  the  Malay  art  of  self-defense,  He  had  been  married  seventeen  times  previously  and  di-  vorced  all  his  wives.&quot;  On  the  face  of  it,  it  seemsimprob-  ablethat  anyone  skilled  in  the  art  of  self-defense  could  have  voluntarily  mar-  ried  seventeen  women,  but  doubtless  the  man  was  an  irrepressible  idealist,  a  matrimonial  Audubon  doomed  to  wander  endlessly  questing  the  bluebird  of  happiness.  Still,  I  reflected,  one  was  forced  to  admire  his  doggedness.  Un-  like  such  amateurs  as  Tommy  Man-  ville  and  Artie  Shaw,  who  lost  heart  after  a  paltry  eight  or  eleven  wives,  Lebai  Omar  gamely  pressed  on,  confi-  dent  that  in  the  next  shower  of  rice  and  old  shoes  he  would  come  up  with  a  winner.  In  an  attempt  to  gauge  the  length  of  his  individual  marriages,  I  gotout  my  calculator  and  estimated  that  if  he  had  started  at  the  age  of  thirteen,  the  average  union  ran  six  years.  On  the  other  hand,  he  may  have  been  precocious  and  begun  marrying  when  he  was  seven,  in  which  case  there  was  an  eighteenth  wife  unac-  counted  for,  How  he  ever  moonlighted  three  times  with  that  forty-year-old  woman  staggers  the  imagination.  Before  a  hungry  mob  of  feminists,  sexologists,  and  other  mullahs  descends  on  the  case  to  extrapolate  earth-shak-  ing  judgments,  I  herewith  wish  to  stake  a  claim  to  the  dramatic  rights.  In  this  tortuous,  steamy  maze  of  con-  flicting  passions,  I  believe,  repose  the  seeds  of  a  powerful  drama-possibly  one  like  Joseph  Hergesheimer's  &quot;Java Head,&quot;  wherein  the  lovely  Chinese  bride  of  a  New  England  mariner  (played,  I  recall,  in  the  silent  movie  version  by  the  incomparable  Jetta  Goudal)  is  subjected  to  the  bigotry  and  scorn  of  his  puritan  townsfolk.  Or  it  could  be  something  on  the  order  of  &quot;Alice  of  Old  Vincennes,&quot;  sentimental  yet  rollicking.  I  just  mention  these  two  extremes  to  show  how  widely  I  propose  to  cast  my  net  and  see  what  we  can  scoop  up.  So  if  everyone  will  kindly  shove  back  his  chair  a  bit,  we  can  im-  provise  a  little  stage  and  begin.  It'll  be  hours  before  those  hooligans  get  back  from  Plato's  Retreat.  SerEn\xc2\xae:  The  conservatory  of  Mucho  Dinero,  the  Newport  mansion  of  Bo-  nanza  and  Wolfram  Frontispiece,  so-  cially  prominent  leaders  of  the  colony  and  longtime  possessors  of  old  money.  A  profusion  of  smilax,  exotic  plants,  bibelots,  and  objets  de  virtu.  Through  the  open  French  doors  behind  them  is  glimpsed  Chiff  Walk,  along  which  oc-  casionally  saunter  the  figures  of  Mrs.  Potter  Palmer,  Berry  W  all,  Mrs.  Lytle  Hull,  Laddie  Sanford,  Mrs.T.  Markoe  Robertson,  and  other  members  of  the  gratin-an  illusion  achieved  by  card-  board  cutouts  of  the  foregoing  drawn  along  a  groove  in  the  stage  floor.  At  rise,  Wolfram  Frontispiece,  white-  thatched  and  peppery,  paces  to  and  fro  chewing  an  unlit  43756261,  his  brow  furrowed.  After  a  moment,  Farkrim-  ter,  the  butler,  appears  on  the  thresh-  old.  FARKRIMTERZ  Oh,  excuse  me,  sir.  I  didn't  realize  the  consistory  was  occupied.  FronTIsPIECE:  Consistory?  'This  is  a  conservatory,  man.  Don't  you  know  the  difference?  FARKRIMTER  :  Not  really.  FronTtIspiEcE:  Then  you'd  be  a  hell  of  a  guy  to  arrange  a  meeting  of  cardinals.  What  is  it?  FarkrRrImTER:  The  chauffeur  phoned  from  the  airport,  sir.  He's  bringing  your  daughter  Wheatena  and  her  fi-  anc\xc3\xa9  from  Benares,  but  there  wasn't  room  in  the  Cadillac.  The  rest  are  coming  by  bus.  FronTiIsPIECE:  The  rest  of  whom?  We're  not  expecting  anyone  else.  FarkrImTER:  'The  seventeen  In-  dian  ladies  with  Dass  Ist  Kein  Kint,  your  daughter's  intended.  FronTIspIECE  (token  aback):  Suf-  fering  catfish,  what  kind  of  fumadid-  dles  is  that  brat  of  mine  mixed  up  in  now?  Bonanza-Bonanza!  ...  Where  the  devil's  my  wife?  FarkrimTER:  She's  down  in  the  " b"basement,  laundering  some  thousand-  dollar  bills.  FronTtIPIECE:  Well,  go  get  her-  don't  stand  there  like  a  wooden  In-  dian!  (As  there  is  a  wooden  Indian  standing  there,  a  statue  of  Massasoit,  Farkrimter  awaits  clarification,  but  fi-  nally  obeys.)  Humph,  a  pretty  kettle  of  fish.  I  knew  no  good  would  come  of  it  when  that  willful,  capricious  minx  went  off  to  study  in  that  ashram.  And  then,  to  agitate  us  further,  came  word  that  she'd  fallen  in  love  with  some  handkerchief  head  twice  her  age.  How-  ever,  best  not  to  fry  off  the  handle;  the  fellow  must  be  a  rajah  at  least,  see-  ing  as  how  he's  brought  his  retinue  with  him.  Bonanza  (bursting  in  distractedly):  Oh,  Wolfram,  what  ever  shall  we  do?  Willful,  capricious  Wheatena  has  just  skyed  in  from  her  ashram  with  a  handkerchief  head-  FrRoNTISPIECE:  Yes,  yes,  the  audi-  ence  knows  all  that.  Farkrimter  and  I  planted  it  in  the  exposition.  Bonanza:  Then  why  did  I  burst  in  here  distractedly?  To  cover  a  stage  wait  until  the  couple  and  their  female  cortege  arrive  at  our  porte  coch\xc3\xa9re  be-  low.  (A  hubbub  of  voices  ascending)  And  herethey  are  now,  by  Jove.  I've  a  premonition  these  voyagers  from  the  subcontinent  may  have  a  surprise  in  store.  (His  intuition  is  faultless,  Dass  Ist  Kein  Kint,  a  frail  and  wrinkled  Bengali  clad  in  a  dhoti,  totters  in  sup-  ported  by  W  heatena  Frontispiece.  His  face  is  as  deeply  seamed  as  Ramses  II's,  and  he  weighs  sixty-three  pounds  soaking  wet.  Behind  them  comes  a  swarm  of  gaily  plumaged  women  of  varying  age  and  hue  in  saris.  Note:  These  last,  in  order  for  the  ensuing  dialogue  to  be  heard,  should  be  deftly  shunted  offstage  to  the  kitchen  by  Farkrimter.)  WuraATENA:  Well,  hello,  everyone!  My,  Mucho  Dinero  is  certainly  a  sight  for  sore  eyes  after  that  grotty  ashram.  (Archly)  However,  I  daresay  you  menfolk  have  a  lot  to  hash  over  be-  tween  you,  so  Mummy  and  I  will  creep  away  to  my  old  nursery  for  some  girl  talk.  (They  exit,  arms  around  each  other's  waist.)  FrontTIspPIECE  (@pause  as  he  de-  bates  whether  to  clap  his  prospective  son-in-law  on  the  back):  Hiya,  old  man.  Nice  to  have  you  on  board.  Dass  Isr  (cups  ear):  How's  that?  FronTIsPIECE:  I  said-welcome.  On  Bailey's  Beachyou  will  hear  the  mermaids  singing  each  to  each.  Have  a  cigar.  Dass  Isr:  No,  thank  you,  I  am  at  present  munching  on  some  betel  nuts.  FronTIsPIEcE:  Oh,  sure-feel  free.  (Nudges  brass  cuspidor  toward  him)  Ah-how  are  things  over  there  in  the  sugarcane?  Dass  Ist:  So-so.  As  the  Lord  Krish-  na  says,  cow  dung  cannot  be  gathered  where  no  cow  has  been.  FrontIPIEcE:  Hmm.  This  is  not  a  problem  we  have  in  Newport,  Rhode  Island.  (Abruptly)  Say,  how  do  you  manage  to  chew  that  fodder?  You  haven't  got  atooth  in  your  head.  Dass  Ist:  No,  I  lost  my  choppers-  let  me  think-soon  after  the  fall  of  43616e616461Arthur  to  the  Japanese,  in  1905. FronTtIsPIECE:  Yes,  I  noticed  you  had  a  bit  of  mileage  on  you.  Might  I  inquire  when  you  were  born?  Dass  Isr:  In  1857,  during  the  Se-  poy  Rebellion.  I'll  be  a  hundred  and  twenty-two  next  July,  he-he-he.  FronTIspIECE:  What  are  you  gig-  gling  about?  Dass  Isr:  Oh,  the  idea  of  me  and  Wheatena  and  all  my  ex-wives  living  in  a  spread  like  this.  Boy,  the  Emperor  Aurangzeb  never  had  it  so  good.  FrontispIEcE  (voice  rising):  Ex-  wives?  See  here,  Clyde,  are  you  con-  cealing  something  from  me?  Dass  Isr:  Of  course  not.  You  saw  them  just  now  -the  seventeen  ladies  that  rode  in  on  the  bus.  Also,  I've  been  mousing  around  with  a  pharmacist  in  Jaipur,  a  lulu-  FrontTtIPIECE:  But  I  thought...  (Roaring)  Young  man,  you  have  the  impudence  to  come  in  here  seeking  my  daughter's  hand-  " b"Dass  Isr:  Now,  slow  down,  Pops,  you're  liable  to  blow  a  fuse.  You  want  to  wind  up  with  blue  lips  and  a  tag  on  your  feet?  FronTIsPIEcE:  Don't  try  to  sweet-  talk  me,  you  insolent  puppy!  (Rips  open  a  bureau  drawer;  extracts  a  check-  book)  I  know  your  sort.  How  much?  Dass  Isr  (dengerously):  Let's  get  this  straight.  Are  you  under  the  im-  pression  you  canbuy  me  off  -that  a  scrap  of  paper  could  compensate  me  for  the  love  of  a  creature  as  delicate  as  a  startled  fawn?  FronTIsPIEcE:  Money  talks.  Every  man  has  his  price.  Dass  Isr:  In  that  case,  we're  in  business.  Speak  up,  fat  man-how  much  is  the  white  bird  worth  to  you?  FRoNTISPIECE  (Ais  chuckle  oilier  than  Sydney  Greenstreet's):  By  gad,  sir,  you  are  a  caution.  I  like  a  man  I  can  see  through.  By  gad,  sir,  I  like  a  man  who  can  see  through  me.  Why  don't  we  meet  somewhere,  like  Locke-  Ober's,  in  [REDACTED],  and  talk  this  thing  over?  Dass  Isr:  All  right,  but  tell  that  gunsel  of  yours,  Farkrimter,  to  keep  his  hands  off  me  or  I'll  kill  him.  Also,  we're  going  to  need  a  fall  guy-to  pay  for  the  lunch.  FronTIspIECE:  I'll  bring  along  Far-  krimter.  The  money  he  gets  in  kick-  backs  from  my  tradesmen,  he  could  support  I  and  you  the  rest  of  our  days.  And  now,  shall  we  join  the  nineteen  ladies?  Dass  Isr:  Frontispiece,  I  like  your  style.  By  gad,  sir,  you're  a  man  after  my  own  heart-but  too  many  are  after  it,  and  the  hormones  are  different.  (4s  they  exit  arm  in  arm)  Listen,  how  about  you  and  your  wife  and  what's-  her-name  coming  over  to  the  ashram  next  summer? "