 b"ANNA's  friends  said  that  soon  she  would  meet  someone  wonder-  ful.  It  had  to  be.  She  worked  as  a  costumer  in  a  theatre  and  knew  a  lot  of  people.  Yet  she  went  to  parties  alone  and  said,  &quot;It's  more  of  an  ad-  venture.&quot;  But  that  wasmere  bluff.  The  truth  was,  she  had  no  choice,  and  she  was  beginning  to  feel  increasingly  separate.  She  laughed  when  her  friends  foretold  this  new  adventure.  She  did  not  believe  it  or  disbelieve  it.  An  Indian  clairvoyant  told  her  the  man's  initials  and  his  occupation,  and  she  felt  it  as  a  very  pleasant  certainty  in  the  pit  of  her  being.  But  shedid  not  hurry  toward  it.  She  was  learning.  When  he  came  through  her  door,  she  did  not  see  him  as  her  promised  one,  but  she  did  see  him  as  someone  vital,  appealing,  and  very  watchful.  He  sat  on  the  floor,  apart.  He  was  called  Bobby.  Her  friend  Ken  had  brought  him.  Ken  was  a  director,  and  she  had  often  worked  with  him.  'They  had  been  through  many  a  scrape  together  and  had  nursed  each  other  through  many  an  emotional  storm.  So  there  they  all  were,  friends,  having  a  drink.  Her  teen-age  sons  were  in  the  room,  and  it  was  a  question  of  chatter,  music  in  the  background,  two  young  people  playing  a  game  of  cards,  and  herself  frequently  jumping  up  to  pass  nuts,  to  pass  olives,  to  refill  the  glasses.  It  was  a  beautiful  spring  evening  and  the  sunlight  poured,  as  if  in  heraldry,  through  the  golden  gauzelike  curtains.  Happiness  prevailed.  The  double  freesias  in  the  vases  were  the  color  of  clotted  cream,  and  when  he  put  his  face  to  them  he  smiled  at  the  absence  of  perfume.  Shop  flowers,  she  had  to  say,  do  not  have  a  perfume.  &quot;Is  that  a  fact?&quot;  He  put  the  question  to  the  air.  Al-  though  apart,  he  seemed  to  be  registering  everything.  He  would  focus  and  narrow  his  eyes,  as  if  consid-  ering.  He  looked  at  the  pictures  on  her  coral  walls  and  admitted  that  he  never  looked  at  pictures  but  that  these  were  quite  something.  One  picture  dominated  a  whole  wall.  It  was  a  wheat  field  and  so  convincing  that  the  high  golden  stalks  seemed  to  move  occasionally  to  a  breeze  or  the  reaper's  scythe.  Then  he  asked  who  the  singer  was  on  the  record  and  looked  at  the  dust  jacket  to  make  note  of  the  label.  It  was  the  same  with  the  wine.  He  repeated  its  name  and  the  name  ofthe  French  shippers.  She  thought  that  perhaps  he  was     complimenting  her  or  perhaps  he  was  making  note  of  these  things  for  his  own  particular  advantage.  Her  impression  was  that  he  was  at  once  sure  and  un-  sure.  He  had  a  beautiful  physical  poise  but  was  canny  about  what  he  would  say.  We  often  ask  strangers  the  blunt-  est  questions.  So  she  did.  She  asked  him  what  he  wanted  in  life,  and  he  whistled  and  gave  a  sudden  grin.  &quot;Just  to  make  you  laugh,  that's  [REDACTED];  he  said,  and  looked  at  her  to  see  if  he  had  made  a  conquest.  It  was  as  if  he  were  drinking  her  in.  The  evening  drifted  on  and  on,  and  no  one  wished  to  leave,  although  they  all  had  differ-  ent  appointments.  'They  might  have  been  placed  under  a  spell.  He  and  Ken  were  going  to  a  play,  and  yet  they  refused  to  budge  and  refused  to  absorb  directions  on  how  to  get  there.  In  the  end,they  left.  WHEN  she  next  saw  him,  a  couple  of  nights  later  at  an  after-theatre  party,  Bobby  said  how  nervous  she  had  been  and  she  said  that  she  was  always  nervous-nervous  even  when  her  cleaning  woman  brought  her  little  boy  for  tea  and  they  all  made  cinnamon  toast  and  munched  it  and  joked.  He  was  an  American  working  in  [REDACTED],  and  he  had  been  in  a  hotel  room  for  ten  days  and  was  beginning  to  feel  cooped  up.  He  mimed  it.  She  saw  him  as  a  caged  monkey  and  asked  if  he  had  beenborn  in  the  Year  of  the  Monkey  according  to  the  Chinese  calendar.  He  did  not  know.  His  eyes  were  a  cornflower  blue  and  some-  times  flashed  like  galvanized  metal.  The  color  was  arrest-  ing  and  it  fluctuated,  as  ifit  were  dye  that  deepened  and  became  pale  at  intervals,  de-  pending  on  his  mood.  They  talked  about  strange  cities,  strange  hotels,  and  the  random  excitement  of  being  alone  and  knowing  no  one.  They  talked  of  the  false  ecstasy  attached  to  ordering  prawns  and  a  cocktail  brought  to  one's  room.  In  her  New  York  hotel,  she  said,  what  she  remembered  most  was  the  single  red  rose  on  her  break-  fast  tray  each  morning.  He  asked  which  hotel  it  was,  and  laughed  be-  cause  indeed  they  might  have  met.  He  mentioned  other  haunts  of  his  and  she  knew  them,  too,  because  she  had  been  taken  there.  They  were  both  gyp-  sies.  When  people  talk,  it  is  usually  something  else  they  are  trying  to  say,  and  he  said  that  on  that  first  meeting  he  was  asking  her  not  to  be  nervous,  to  come  out  with  them,  and  she  said  that  she  was  saying  not  to  get  near,  not  to  trespass.  BUT  they  met  again  and  again,  al-  ways  with  Ken,  who  was  the  butt  of  their  jokes  and  the  witness  to  their  budding  attraction.  Bobby  would  take  her  hand  as  if  it  were  the  most  natural  thing  in  the  world  and  whirl  it  clock-  wise  and  counterclockwise,  and  they  would  look  at  each  other  as  if  trying  to  read  faces.  They  were  at  once  friendly  and  wary.  She  took  Bobby  and  Ken  for  a  walk  in  Hyde  Park  and  showed  them  the  difference  between  primroses  and  grape  hyacinths.  With  regard  to  nature,  they  were  barbarians.  At  the  Serpen-  tine,  they  all  watched  as  the  ducks  squabbled  over  bread.  Their  attention  was  caught  by  two  cocks  who  were  having  a  hardy  battle.  One  or  the  other  of  the  combatants  would  disap-  pear,  only  to  re\xc3\xa9merge  drenched  and  more  pugnacious.  It  was  the  courting  season.  &quot;''Terrific,'  he  said,  and  flinched  as  if  nature  were  a  puzzle  to  him.  The  landscape  where  he  lived  was  desert,  and  he  described  going  out  there  on  his  motorcycle  to  work  off  his  fret,  and  she  saw  a  man  with  a  coil  inside  his  chest.  Then  she  took  them  to  where  all  the  birds  congregated  and  sang,  some  to  woo,  some  to  compete,  some  to  plead,  and  some,  as  she  said,  to  serenade  the  people.  &quot;''The  birds  at  juke  in  the  bushes,&quot;  she  said.  What  did  that  mean?  She  told  him  that  she  had  learned  that  in  Ireland,  read  it  in  a  schoolbook  long  ago.  \xe2\x80\x9cI\xe2\x80\x99LL  take  you  to  Ireland,&quot;  he  said  to  her  late  one  night.  Ken  had  gone  home,  and  she  and  he  were  in  his  hotel  room,  talking,  talking.  They  sat  close  together,  like  children,  with  hands  held,  fingers  locking  and  interlocking,  telling  each  other  snatches  of  things.  Once,  in  a  bar,  he  had  broken  twenty  willow-pattern  plates.  Once,  in  a  wait-  ing  room,  he  had  acted  Ionesco's  ''The  Chairs.&quot;  By  then  she  knew  that  he  was  mar-  ried,  that  he  was  estranged  from  his  wife,  that  he  was  a  little  in  love  with  Anna,  a  little  in  awe,  and  that  he  was  not  running  to  her,  he  was  not  doing  that.  &quot;Why  take  me  to  Ireland?&quot;  she  said,  again  probably  meaning  something  else,  probably  meaning  don't.  \xc2\xab'Cause  you're  always  taking  me  somewhere,&quot;  he  said.  There  was  an  obstacle.  She  did  not  really  want  to  sleep  with  him,  not  be-  " b"cause  she  did  not  want  to  sleep  with  him  but  because  she  was  reluctant  and  she  was  afraid.  What  is  more,  she  had  lost  the  habit.  She  was  in  her  late  thirties,  divorced,  her  children  were  grown,  and  though  she  was  consumed  with  desire  it  had  gone  underground  and  moved  in  her  like  a  wraith  and  sometimes  spoke  in  dreams.  It  was  there,  but  secretive.  He  guessed  what  was  running  through  her  mind.  &quot;No  way  I  would,&quot;  he  said,  as  if  sleeping  with  someone  was  too  strenuous  and  too  much  of  a  com-  mitment.  &quot;It's  probably  very  nice,  but  I  like  this.&quot;  And  he  dangled  their  two  hands  in  the  air  and  seemed  pleased  with  what  he  saw.  So  going  to  Ireland  was  simple,  and  he  would  arrange  it  all.  HEY  arrived  at  the  hotel  in  the  evening.  'The  avenue  was  miles  long,  with  big  redwood  trees  on  either  side.  It  curved  roundand  round,  and  she  was  breathless  to  geta  view.  A  sally  hedge  and  cropped  yews  skirt-  ed  the  bounds  of  a  beautiful  formal  garden.  The  rhododendrons  were  out.  Like  torches  of  deep  red  reaching  high-  er  and  higher  to  the  heavens.  The  cut  stone  was  covered  over  with  a  thin  cape  of  bronze  lichen,  and  the  corners  of  the  building  curved  into  little  horse-  shoe  gazebos.  The  lake  beyond  was  the  color  of  dun  earth.  The  trunks  of  the  trees  were  reflected  thinly,  down,  down  into  the  water,  thin  and  precari-  ous  as  flamingos'  legs.  She  saw  it  all-  the  mooring  place  for  the  boat,  the  green-domed  boathouse,  and  the  steps  that  led  to  the  front  porch  with  two  men  or,  rather,  figures  in  armor-and  she  thought,  Do  I  deserve  this?  The  season  had  just  begun  and  the  porters  were  full  of  affability,  and  their  welcome  seemed  to  say  that  it  was  nice  to  have  donned  their  blazers  and  their  black  bow  ties  to  greet  new  faces.  The  other  new  faces,  as  far  as  she  could  see,  were  somewhat  tentative.  It  was  as  if  people  like  her  had  just  stepped  in  to  a  masked  party  and  were  unsure.  Bobby  made  up  for  all  that  by  scan-  ning  everything,  by  looking  closely  at  the  huge  photographs  that  decked  the  lounge,  by  having  a  quick  drink  at  the  bar  as  they  passed  by.  He  juggled  some  nuts  in  the  air  before  popping  them  into  his  mouth.  He  gave  her  a  sip  of  his  bourbon.  She  walked  toward  one  of  the  huge,  blown-up  photographs  and  beheld  a  bleached  sea  road  strewn  with  small  bleached  stones.  It  spoke  of  hard-  ship,  of  poverty.  That  was  my  childhood,  she  thought,  and  conceived  of  a  bicycle  ora  workman  or  a  dog-something  to  make  it  human.  His  childhood  was  New  York,  second-generation  Irish-  men  with  sombre  personalities  until  the  moment  they  drank.  When  they  drank,  they  changed  character,  he  said.  He  kissed  her  in  front  of  the  picture,  in  front  of  the  other  guests,  in  front  of  the  curly-haired  barman,  and  in  front  of  her  awkward  self.  He  was  excited  and  like  a  schoolboy  playing  truant.  Then  he  took  her  wrist  and  they  went  up  in  the  tiny  lift,  spec-  ulating  about  the  room.  It  was  a  suite.  As  they  came  through  the  door,  the  first  thing  she  could  see  was  another  bar  reflected  in  the  window  opposite,  then  all  of  a  sudden  the  porter  switched  on  the  bar  light  and  the  bottles  multi-  plied  and  were  reflected  in  the  rear  mirrors.  She  could  see  how  barmen  might  be  proud  of  their  wares  and  how  they  might  keep  their  mirrors  very  clean  and  dust  the  necks  of  the  bottles  and  never  let  the  labels  be  soiled  or  smeared  the  way  the  pages  of  her  cook-  ery  book  were.  The  room  was  so  huge  that  they  walked  round  it  and  met  and  embracedand  separated,  and  told  each  other  more  stories,  or  snippets  of  sto-  ries.  It  was  like  shorthand.  It  was  their  way  of  discovering  each  other.  Her  " b"stories  with  the  merest  tinctureof  pain,  like  cochineal  invading  an  icing,  and  his  with  a  zaniness  and  a  certain  sub-  versiveness.  Very  soon,  menus  were  brought  and  he  lolled  over  her  shoulder  as  he  de-  bated  what  they  should  have.  They  would  have  everything.  They  would  get  plump  together,  they  would  jog  to-  gether  in  the  beautiful  grounds,  they  would  go  boating  together  to  the  is-  land  across  the  way,  and  they  would  swim  at  midnight.  The  waiter  said  a  boat  could  be  arranged  but  they  would  get  their  death  of  cold  if  they  were  to  swim  or  even  paddle.  When  the  waiter  had  gone,  Bobby  told  her  a  story  about  a  cat  and  an  eagle,  and  she  listened  with  all  her  at-  tention.  It  was  a  fable,  really.  It  in-  volved  danger  and  it  involved  depend-  ence.  The  lamplight  was  very  soft  and  so  was  their  mood.  The  rooks  were  cawing  in  the  trees  outside  and  the  time  seemed  to  exhale  its  own  passing,  so  perfect  and  unruffled  it  all  was.  He  got  up  and  stretched.  &quot;I  would  have  gone  crazy  if  I  hadn't  met  you,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Do  I  resemble  someone  else?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;No  one  else,  absolutely  no  one  else,&quot;  he  said.  There  was  something  she  had  to  tell  him,  but  she  did  not  know  how.  She  blurted  it.  How  she  saw  a  doctor.  &quot;Oh,  a  shrink,&quot;  he  said,  and  dazzled  her  by  totting  up  the  amount  that  he,  his  wife,  his  eldest  child,  and  his  several  girlfriends  had  spent  in  that  depart-  ment.  She  had  to  tell  him  then  of  a  dream  she  had  had  that  was  shocking  in  its  simplicity.  She  had  dreamed  of  sleeping  with  her  doctor,  had  supplied  every  detail  of  it--the  folded  sheet,  the  red  herringbone  stitching  on  the  rim  of  the  blanket,  his  breathing,  the  subtlety  of  their  reach,  the  beauty  of  their  closeness-and  how  then  the  doctor  merged  into  her  father  and  then  returned  to  being  himself  again,  and  how  as  they  made  love  the  doc-  tor's  face  floated  between  being  his  own  and  beingher  father's  and  that  no  matter  which  face  she  kissed  the  other  was  behind  it,  like  a  shadow,  floating,  and  the  benefitof  those  two  faces  was  totally  and  uncannily  satisfying.  It  made  one  ask  for  nothing  more.  She  wanted  him  to  know  that,  but  she  did  not  know  why  she  wanted  him  to  know  it.  She  was  by  the  window  look-  ing  out.  Night  had  fallen.  &quot;I  love  when  you  move,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;What  race  would  you  think  I  was?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Russian,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Good,&quot;  she  said,  and  he  laughed  because  he  had  been  jesting  with  her.  She  was  the  race  she  was,  every  par-  ticle  of  it,  Eyes,  bones,  hair,  inflam-  mability,  'They  were  alike.  She  felt  that,  too.  Brother  and  sister.  Kin.  EFORE  dinner,  they  went  outside  to  fetch  a  book  he  had  left  behind  in  the  hired  car.  'The  place  was  a  thicket  of  darkness.  On  the  path,  they  stumbled  and  clung  to  each  other  and  did  not  know  which  direction  to  take.  There  was  the  wonderful  cleansing  sound  of  rushing  water,  and  they  both  said  that  they  had  not  felt  so  well  in  years.  They  groped  toward  the  car  park.  He  put  the  key  in  the  door  and,  upon  opening  it,  an  inner  light  came  on.  On  the  back  seat  was  an  attach\xc3\xa9  case,  which  he  snapped  open,  and  in  it  were  a  tin  of  boiled  sweets,  a  lady's  knickers,  and  a  pair  of  black  evening  gloves.  &quot;Come  on!&quot;  he  said,  and  accused  her  of  being  responsible  for  it.  But  it  was  not  their  car  at  all.  Their  key  opened  several  car  doors,  and  each  time  they  laughed,  because  neither  of  them  could  remember  the  number  of  their  car,  its  color,  or  even  where  they  had  parked  it.  They  had  been  so  engrossed  in  each  other  that  they  had  forgotten.  &quot;What  did  you  see  as  we  drove  here?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;'You,&quot;  he  said,  and  then  added,  &quot;Stone  walls,  small  fields,  and  a  lot  of  bog.&quot;  " b"She  said  that  she  had  seen  a  statue  of  a  saint  in  the  upstairs  window  of  a  pub  and  that  its  head  had  come  off  and  was  resting  on  its  shoulder,  and  did  he  think  it  was  kept  on  by  glue  or  by  persistence?  He  said  probably  persistence  and  that  she  was  a  wonderful  person  and  tohell  with  his  car  and  his  swanky  book  on  Zen  Buddhism.  Some  of  the  hotel  windows  were  lit  up,  and  soft  red  lights  beckoned  from  the  stone  front.  HE  wine  she  most  loved  was  on  the  table  and  there  were  five  fluted  daffodils  set  into  a  piece  of  green  sponging  that  was  too  bulky  for  the  small  vase.  The  curtains  and  wall  coverings  were  a  sumptuous  red,  and  in  the  recess  where  they  sat  they  could  see  the  garden  outside  and  a  fire  at  the  end  of  the  room  glowing.  &quot;You're  smart,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  have  decided  you're  smart.&quot; She  looked  at  him  and  wondered.  She  thought,  He  thinks  I  am  vivid,  I  think  I  am  dull.  She  thought,  He  probably  sleeps  like  ababy,  I  toss  and  turn.  She  thought  she  was  not  going  to  be  able  to  carry  it  off,  but  there  he  was  disarming  her,  telling  her  some-  thing  else.  &quot;What  would  you  say  is  your  big-  gest  handicap?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Thinking,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'm  always  thinking  about  thinking,  and  not  doing  much  real  thinking.&quot;  &quot;What  if  I  said  that  I  didn't  want  to  be  here?&quot;  &quot;I'd  think  about  it  and  I'd  start  thinking  that  you  would  think  you  wanted  to  be  here.&quot;  &quot;Could  you?&quot;  she  said,  so  implor-  ingly.  &quot;No,  but  I  wish  I  could,&quot;  he  said,  so  sadly.  She  thought,  {}{t  will  be  all  right,  it  will  take  a  day  or  two,  but  I  will  ad-  just,  I  will  get  used  to  being  with  someone,  1  will  be  funny,  I  will  bloom.  'Tell  me  about  your  kids,&quot;  she  said,  realizingthat  his  language  was  infecting  hers.  ''They're  not  as  good  as  yours,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;  'cause  I'm  not  as  good  as  you.&quot;  &quot;You  miss  them?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'Theydo  racing  and  stuff  like  that....  They're  on  their  way.  ...I  wouldn't  want  them  to  be  late  starters  like  me.&quot;  He  gave  a  little  smile  that  was  almost  rueful.  She  thought  then  of  starting.  Were  he  and  she  starting,  and  if  so  what?  Would  these  three  days  bring  them  nearer  or  farther  from  one  another?  Where  were  theboulders,the  thorns,  the  gorges-where  were  they,  and  when  would  they  loom  into  view?  He  asked  what  excited  her.  She  said  did  he  mean  sexually.  He  said  any  way.  She  said  the  lifting  of  a  skirt  was  more  exciting  than  two  bare  bodies,  more  suggestive.  Then  they  discussed  " b"films  they  loved,  or  moments  of  films  that  they  loved,  and  they  were  almost  obstreperous  in  pronouncing  their  own  choices  as  best.  She  asked  if  he  knew  what  Keats  said  when  he  saw  his  beloved  take  off  her  glove.  &quot;  'Snared  by  the  ungloving  of  thine  hand.&quot;  &quot;  &quot;God!&quot;  he  said,  delighted,  and  then  added  that  he  would  have  to  read  Keats  and  a  lot  of  other  stuff  to  keep  up  with  her!  They  were  eating  fresh  poached  salmon,  and  he  said  one  thing  he  had  never  done  was  fishing.  She  said  it  made  people  very  patient,  and  he  twitched  his  nose  at  that.  &quot;But  you  fish  the  brain,&quot;  she  said  quietly.  &quot;Right,&quot;  he  said,  gladdened  that  she  had  noticed  that  trait  in  him.  Her  fingernails  dug  into  her  left  palm.  ALWAYS  she  had  loved  the  first  moments,  weeks,  and  months  of  an  affair,  but  now  it  was  different.  She  wanted  these  bypassed  or  saved  for  later,  she  wanted  it  as  it  was  with  her  children,  easy  and  silent  and  with  an  immeasurable  understanding.  In  the  past,  it  might  have  been  his  wife,  his  children,  his  this,  his  that  which  sent  her  hurrying  to  isolation.  But  it  was  no  longer  those  things,  it  was  no  longer  the  commencement,  the  enjoyment,  the  agony,  or  the  conclusion  of  the  affair.  It  was  something  else.  She  wanted  a  love  ordained  from  within.  Two  sets  of  inner  eyes  knowing  and  compre-  hending.  &quot;I  don't  think  I  can  go  through  with  this,&quot;  she  said.  He  sensed  it  just  before  she  said  it.  He  had  been  telling  her  a  story,  his  forkheld  in  midair,  and  he  dropped  it  and  let  out  a  volley  of  swear  words.  The  soles  of  their  shoes  sepa-  rated.  &quot;&quot;Why  not?&quot;  he  said,  and  she  could  see  that  it  had  shaken  him.  He  still  smiled,  but  the  light  behind  the  smile  had  gone  gray,  was  quashed.  It  was  hard  to  say  why,  except  that  she  mut-  tered  how  she  was  unused  to  being  with  someone  and  giving  nothing.  Her  role  was  to  give,  not  to  take.  Or  she  could  tell  him  that  she  was  on  tenterhooks,  that  she  was  afraid.  She  could  not  tell  him  that  she  feared  to  be  ugly  for  a  moment,  or  to  show  signs  of  tiredness,  or  failure,  or  fatigue.  By  telling  him  these  things  she  would  make  him  be-  lieve  them.  Nor  could  she  say  that  pos-  sibly  her  flesh  was  too  white,  her  jokes  were  artifacts,  her  breasts  sagged.  Time  had  made  its  numerous  erosions  on  her.  To  herself  she  was  like  a  doll  who  smiles  and  flutters  and  is  then  put  away  in  its  box  of  chaff,  and  is  taken  out  again,  but  only  briefly.  &quot;I've  been  away  too  long,&quot;  she  said,  but  that  was  to  herself.  &quot;I  don't  want  to  go  on  with  this,&quot;  she  said,  and  she  saw  puzzlement  come  over  his  face  and  sensed  that  he  felt  he  had  just  encountered  an  anomaly,  a  woman  whom  he  did  not  know  and  would  not  be  able  to  fathom.  &quot;Il  tell  you  what  I'll  do,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Il  take  a  walk.  I'd  like  a  walk.  I'll  take  a  long  walk  and  give  you  time  to  think.&quot;  &quot;Id  rather  go,&quot;  she  said,  and  as  ske  rose  he  gave  her  hand  a  little  squeeze  and  it  seemed  to  say,  &quot;You're  a  fool  to  bypass  this.&quot;  'See  you,&quot;  she  said,  but  she  could  not  see  him  through  the  prism  of  tears  that  blinded  her  to  everything  in  the  room,  as  she  hurried  to  what  was  dark  and  impenetrable  outside.  "