 b"SHE  had  been  named  after  a  saint.  St.  Attracta  was  said  to  have  re-  ceived  the  veil  from  St.  Patrick  and  was  well  known  throughout  Ire-  land  for  her  two  miracles.  When  soldiers  were  fleeing  from  the  wrath  of  the  King  of  Connacht,  she  helped  them  to  escape  by  dividing  the  waters  of  Lough  Gara.  Later  she  harnessed  forest  deer  with  her  hair,  making  them  drag  timber  for  the  construction  of  a  fort.  This  Attracta  wasn't  like  that  at  all,  and  her  world  was  a  quieter  one.  Since  1937  she  had  taught  in  a  school-  room  that  hadn't  altered  much  since  she'd  been  a  pupil  in  it  herself.  Around  the  walls  there  were  portraits  of  Eng-  land's  kings  and  queens,  painted  by  some  teacher  in  the  past.  There  were  pictures,  added  at  a  later  date,  of  Irish  heroes:  Niall  of  the  NineHos-  tages,  Lord  Edward  Fitzgerald,  Wolfe  Tone,  and  Grattan.  Maps  of  Europe,  of  Ireland,  and  of  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  and  [REDACTED]  hung  side  by  side.  A  new  blackboard,  attached  to  the  wall,  had  ten  years  ago  replaced  the  old  pedestal  one.  The  globe  had  always  been  there  in  Attracta's  time,  but  since  it  did  not  designate  political  boundaries  it  wasn't  much  out  of  date,  The  twenty-five  wooden  desks  more  urgently  needed  to  be  replaced.  In  the  schoolroom,  Attracta  taught  the  sixteen  Protestant  children  of  a  town  in  County  Cork.  The  numbers  had  been  greater  in  the  past,  and  often  fewer;  sixteen  was  an  average,  a  num-  ber  she  found  easy  to  manage  when  divided  into  the  four  classes  that  the  different  ages  demanded.  The  room  was  large,  the  desks  were  arranged  in  groups,  discipline  had  never  been  a  problem.  'The  country  children  brought  sandwiches  for  lunch,  the  children  of  the  town  went  home  at  midday,  At-  tracta  went  home  herself,  to  the  house  in  North  Street  which  she'd  inherited  from  her  Aunt  Emmeline  and  where  now  she  lived  alone,  She  possessed  an  old  blue  Morris  Minor,  but  she  did  not  often  drive  it  to  and  from  her  school-  room,  preferring  to  make  the  journey  on  foot  in  order  to  get  fresh  air  and  exercise.  She  was  a  familiar  figure,  the  Protestant  teacher  with  her  basket  of  groceries  or  schoolbooks.  She  had  never  married,  though  twice  she'd  been  pro-  posed  to:  by  an  exchange  clerk  in  the  c  &quot;Wait,  I  know  what's  different.  Your  hair's  curlier&quot;  Bank  of  Ireland  and  byan  English  visitor  who  had  once  spent  the  summer  in  the  area  with  his  parents.  All  that  was  long  past,  for  Attracta  was  sixty-  one.  Her  predecessor  in  the  school-  room,  Mr.  Ayrie,  hadn't  retired  until  he  was  over  seventy.  She  had  always  assumed  she'd  emulate  him  in  that.  Looking  back  on  it,  Attracta  didn't  regret  that  she  had  not  married.,  She  hadn't  much  cared  for  eitherof  the  men  who'd  proposed  to  her,  and  she  didn't  mind  being  alone  at  sixty-one  in  her  house  in  North  Street.  She  regu-  larly  went  to  church,  she  had  friends  who  had  been  her  pupils  Now  and  again  in  the  holidays  she  drove  her  Morris  Minor  to  Cork  for  a  day's  shopping  and  possibly  a  visit  to  the  Savoy  or  thePavilion,  although  the  films  they  offered  were  not  as  good  as  they'd  been  in  the  past.  Being  on  her  own  was  something  she'd  always  known,  having  been  both  an  only  child  and  an  orphan.  There  had  been  trag-  edy  in  her  life,  but  she  considered  that  she  had  not  suffered.  People  had  been  good  to  her.  Attracta  read  about  Penelope  Vade  in  a  newspaper  item  that  upset  her.  \xc2\xa9ENGLISH  GIRL'S  SUICIDE  IN  BEL-  FAST,&quot;  the  headline  said,  and  below  it  there  was  a  photograph-a  girl  with  a  slightly  crooked  smile  and  freckled  cheeks,  There  was  a  photograph  of  her  husband  in  Army  uniform,  taken  a  few  weeks  before  his  death,  and  one  of  the  house  in  [REDACTED]  in  which  she  had  later  rented  a  flat.  &quot;From  the  marks  of  blood  on  carpets  and  rugs,&quot;  the  item  said,  &quot;it  is  deduced  that  Mrs.  Vade  dragged  herself  across  the  floors  of  two  rooms.  She  appears  repeatedly  to  have  fainted  before  she  reached  a  bottle  of  aspirins  in  a  kitchen  cup-  board.&quot;  She  had  been  twenty-three  at  the  time  of  her  death.  Penelope  Vade's  desire  to  make  some  kind  of  gesture-a  gesture  of  courage  and  perhaps  anger-had  caused  her  to  leave  her  parents'  home  in  Haslemere  and  go  to  [REDACTED],  Her  husband,  an  Army  officer,  had  been  murdered  in  [REDACTED];  he  had  been  de-  capitated  as  well.  His  head,  wrapped  in  cotton  wool  to  absorb  the  ooze  of  blood,  secured  within  a  plastic  bag  and  packed  in  a  biscuit  tin,  had  been  posted  to  Penelope  Vade.  Layer  by  layer  the  parcel  had  been  opened  by  her  in  Haslemere.  She  hadn't  known  that  he  was  dead.  Her  gesture  was  her  mourning  of  him.  She  went  to  [REDACTED]  to  join  the  Women's  Peace  Movement,  to  make  the  point  that  somehow  neither  he  nor  she  had  been  defeated,  But  her  ges-  " b"ture,  publicly  reported,  incensed  the  men  who  had  gone  to  the  trouble  of  killing  him.  One  after  another,  seven  of  them  committed  acts  of  rape  on  her.  It  was  then  that  she  killed  herself.  A  fortnight  after  Attracta  had  first  read  the  newspaper  item,  it  still  upset  her.  It  haunted  her,  and  she  knew  why  it  did,  though  imprecisely,  When  she  was  alone  at  night,  scenes  from  the  tragedy  established  themselves  in  her  mind:  the  opening  of  the  biscuit  box,  the  smell  of  death,  blood  turning  brown.  As  if  at  a  macabre  slide  show,  the  scene  would  change:  before  peo-  ple  had  wondered  about  her  where-  abouts,  Penelope  Vade  had  been  dead  for  four  days;  mice  had  left  droppings  on  her  body.  One  afternoon,  in  order  to  think  the  matter  over  in  peace  and  quiet,  Attracta  drove  her  Morris  Minor  to  the  sea  at  Cedarstrand,  eight  miles  from  the  town.  She  clambered  from  the  strand  up  to  the  headland  and  paused  there,  gazing  down  into  the  bay  at  the  solitary  island  it  held.  No  one  had  ever  lived  on  the  island,  be-  cause  its  smallness  would  have  made  a  self-supporting  existence  impossible.  Growing  up,  she'd  often  wondered  what  it  would  be  like  to  live  alone  on  the  rocky  fastness,  in  a  wooden  hut  or  a  cottage  built  of  stones.  Not  very  agreeable,  she'd  thought,  having  al-  ways  been  sociable.  She  thought  it  again  as  she  turned  abruptly  from  the  sea  and  followed  a  path  inland  through  wiry  purple  heather.  Two  fishermen,  approaching  her  on  the  path,  recognized  her  as  the  Protes-     tant  teacher  from  the  town  eight  miles  away  and  stood  aside  for  her  to  pass.  She  was  thinking  that  nothing  she  might  ever  have  said  in  her  schoolroom  could  possibly  have  prevented  the  death  of  a  girl  in  a  city  two  hundred  miles  away.  Yet  in  a  way  it  seemed  ridicu-  lous  that  for  so  long  she  had  been  relating  the  details  of  Cromwell's  des-  ecration  and  the  laws  of  Pythagoras,  when  she  should  havebeen  talking  about  people  of  the  town:  Mr.  Dev-  ereux  and  Geraldine  Carey.  And  it  was  Mr.  Purce  she  should  have  recalled  in-  stead  of  the  Battle  ofthe  Boyne.  The  fishermen  spoke  to  her  as  she  passed  them  by,  but  she  didn't  answer.  It  surprised  them  that  she  didn't,  for  they  hadn't  heard  that  the  Protestant  teacher  had  recently  become  deaf  or  odd.  Just  old,  they  supposed  as  they  watched  her  progressing  slowly:  an  upright  figure,  spare  and  fragile-look-  ing,  a  certain  stiffness  in  her  move-  ments.  HAT  made  Attracta  feel  close  to  the  girl  in  the  newspaper  item  was  the  tragedy  in  her  own  life:  the  death  of  her  mother  and  her  father  when  she  was  three.  Her  parents  had  gone  away,  she  had  been  told,  and  at  first  she  had  wept  miserably  and  would  not  be  comforted.  But  as  days  passed  into  weeks,  and  weeks  into  months,  this  unhappiness  gradually  left  her.  She  ceased  to  ask  about  her  parents  and  became  used  to  living  in  her  Aunt  Emmeline's  house  in  North  Street.  In  time  she  no  longer  remembered  the  morning  she'd  waked  up  in  this  house,  in  a  bed  that  was  strange  to  her;  nor  could  she  recollect  her  parents'  faces.  She  grew  up  assuming  they  were  no  longer  alive,  and  when  once  she  voiced  this  assumption  her  aunt  did  notcon-  tradict  it.  It  wasn't  until  she  was  eleven  that  she  learned  the  details  of  the  tragedy  from  Mr.  Purce,  a  small  man  in  a  hard  black  hat  who  was  often  to  be  seen  on  the  streets  of  the  town.  He  was  one  of  the  people  she  noticed  in  her  childhood,  like  the  elderly  beg-  garwoman  called  Limerick  Nancy  and  the  wild-looking  builder's  laborer  who  could  walk  a  hundred  miles  with-  out  stopping,  who  never  wore  a  jersey  or  a  coat  over  his  open  shirt  even  on  the  coldest  winter  days.  There  were  others,  too.  Priests  walked  in  pairs,  out  along  the  road  that  led  to  the  golf  course  and  to  Cedarstrand  by  the  longer  route.  There  were  nuns  in  pairs  also,  strolling  through  the  afternoon  sunshine,  and  there  was  Redmond  the  solicitor,  hurrying  about  with  his  busi-  ness  papers,  and  Father  Quinn  on  his  bicycle.  At  night  there  were  the  red-  fleshed  country  bachelors  tipsily  smiling  through  cigarette  smoke,  lips  glistening  in  the  street  light  outside  Keogh's  pub-  lic  house.  At  all  times  of  day,  at  all  the  town's  corners,  the  children  of  the  poor  waited  for  nothing  in  particular.  The  town  was  everything  in  At-  tracta's  childhood,  and  only  some  of  it  had  changed  in  fifty  years  Without  nostalgia  she  remembered  the  horses  and  carts  with  milkchurns  forthe  creamery,  slowly  advancing  on  nar-  row  streets  between  color-washed  houses.  On  fair  days  the  pavements  " b"had  been  slithery  with  dung,  and  on  fair  days  they  still  were.  Farmers,  their  shirts  clean  fortheoccasion,  astud  at  the  throat,  without  collar  or  tie,  stood  by  their  animals.  Dogs  slouched  in  a  manner  that  was  characteristic  of  the  dogs  of  the  town.  There  was  a  smell  of  stout  and  sawdust.  In  her  childhood  there  had  been  O'Mara's  picture  house,  dour  gray  cement  encasing  the  dreamland  of  Fred  Astaire  and  Ginger  Rogers.  Built  with  pride  in  1929,  O'Mara's  was  a  ruin  now.  Within  the  world  of  the  town  there  was,  for  Attracta,  a  smaller,  Protestant  world.  Behind  green  rail-  ings  there  was  Mr.  Ayrie's  Protestant  schoolroom,  There  was  the  Church  of  Ireland  church,  with  its  dusty  flags  of  another  age  and  Archdeacon  Flower's  prayers  for  the  English  royal  family.  There  were  the  Sunday-school  classes  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Bell,  and  the  patience  of  Attracta's  aunt,  which  seemed  like  a  Protestantthing  also-the  Protestant  duty  ofa  woman  who  had  never  ex-  pected  to  find  herself  looking  after  a  child.  There  was  Mr.  Devereux,  a  Protestant  who  never  went  to  church.  No  one  in  the  town,  not  even  her  aunt,  was  kinder  to  Attracta  than  Mr.  Devereux.  On  her  birthday  he  came  himself  to  the  house  in  North  Street  with  a  present  carefully  wrapped-a  doll's  house  once,  sobig  he'd  had  to  ask  the  man  next  door  to  help  him  out  of  his  motorcar  with  it.  At  Christmas  he  had  a  Christmas  tree  in  his  house,  and  other  children  in  the  town,  her  friends  from  school,  were  invited  to  a  party.  Every  Saturday  she  spent  the  afternoon  with  him,  eating  his  house-  keeper's  delicious  orange  cake  for  tea  and  sticking  stamps  into  the  album  he'd  given  her,  listening  to  his  gramophone  in  the  room  he  called  his  office.  He  loved  getting  a  huge  fire  going  in  his  office,  banking  up  the  coalsso  that  they'd  glow  and  redden  her  cheeks.  In  summer  he  sat  inhis  back  garden  with  her,  sometimes  reading  &quot;The  Coral  Island&quot;  aloud.  He  made  her  run  away  to  the  raspberry  canes  and  come  back  with  a  punnet  of  fruit,  which  they'd  have  at  suppertime.  He  was  different  from  her  aunt  and  from  Mr.  Ayrie  and  Archdeacon  Flower.  He  smelled  of  the  tobacco  he  smoked  in  his  pipe.  He  wore  tweed  suits  and  a  striped  shirt  with  a  white  celluloid  collar,  and  patterned  brown  shoes,  which  Attracta  greatly  admired.  His  tie  matched  the  tweed  of  his  suit,  a  gold  watch  dangled  from  the  lapel  of  his  jacket  into  the  top  pocket.  He  was  by  trade  a  grain  merchant.  His  house  was  quiet  and  always  a  litle  mysterious.  The  drawing  room, full  of  looming  furniture,  was  dark  in  the  daytime.  Behind  layers  of  curtains  that  hung  to  the  ground  blue  blinds  obscured  the  greater  part  of  the  light:  sunshine  would  damage  the  furniture,  Mr.  Devereux's  housekeeper  used  to  say.  On  a  summer's  afternoon  this  woman  would  light  a  paraffin  lamp  so  that  she  could  polish  the  mahogany  surfaces  of  the  tables  and  the  grand  piano.  Her  name  was  Geraldine Carey;  she  added  to  the  house's  mys-  tery.  Mr.  Devereux's  smile  was  slow.  There  was  a  laziness  about  it,  in  both  its  leisurely  arrival  and  the  way  it  lin-  gered.  His  eyes  had  a  weary  look,  quite  out  of  keeping  with  all  the  efforts  he  made  to  promote  his  friendship  with  Attracta  and  her  aunt.  Yet  the  efforts  seemed  natural  to  Attracta,  as  did  the  efforts  of  Geraldine  Carey,  who  was  the  quietest  person  Attracta  had  ever  met.  She  spoke  in  a  voice  that  it  was  often  hard  to  hear.  Her  hair  was  as  black  as  coal,  drawn  back  from  her  face  and  arranged  ina  coiled  bun  at  the  back  of  her  head.  Her  eyes  were  startlingly  alive,  seeming  to  be  black  also,  often  cast  down.  She  had  the  kind  of  beauty  that  Attracta  would  have  liked  one  day  to  possess  herself  but  " b"knew  she  would  not.  Geraldine  Carey  was  like  a  nun,  because  of  the  dark  clothes  she  wore,  and  she  had  a  nun's  piety.  In  the  town  it  was  said  she  couldn't  go  to  Mass  often  enough.  &quot;Why  weren't  you  a  nun,  Geraldine?&quot;  Attracta  asked  her  once,  watch,  ing  her  making  bread  in  her  big,  cool  kitchen.  The  habit  would  have  suited  her,  she  add-  ed,  already  imagining  the  housekeeper's  face  framed  by  the  coif,  and  the  black  voluminous  skirts.  But  Geraldine  Carey  replied  that  she'd  never  heard  God  call-  ing  her.  &quot;Only  the  good  are  called,&quot;  she  said.  There  had  been  a  time,  faintly  remem-  bered  by  Attracta,  when  her  Aunt  Em-  meline  wasn't  well  dis-  posed  toward  Mr.  Dev-  ereux  and  Geraldine  Carey.  There  was  sus-  picion  of  some  kind,  a  frowning  over  the  presents  he  brought,  an  agitation  whenever  Attracta  was  in-  vited  to  tea.  Because  of  her  own  ex-  citement  over  the  presents  and  the  in-  vitations,  Attracta  didn't  pay  much  attention  to  the  nature  of  her  aunt's  concern  and  looking  back  on  it  years  later  could  only  speculate.  Her  Aunt  Emmeline  was  a  precise  person,  a  tall  woman  who  had  never  married,  re-  puted  to  be  delicate.  Her  house  in  North  Street,  very  different  from  Mr.  Devereux's,  reflected  her:  it  was  neat  as  a  new  pin,  full  of  light;  the  win-  dows  of  its  small  rooms  were  invariably  open  at  the  top  to  let  in  fresh  air.  The  fanlight  above  the  hall  door  was  always  gleaming,  filling  the  hall  with  morning  sunlight.  Attracta's  Aunt  Emmeline  had  a  fear  of  dankness,  of  damp  clothes  and  wet  feet  and  rain  falling  on  the  head.  She  worried  about  lots  of  things.  Clearly  she  had  worried  about  Mr.  Devereux.  There  was  an  occasion  when  Archdeacon  Flower  had  been  specially  invited  to  tea,  when  Attracta  listened  at  the  sitting-room  door  be-  cause  she'd  sensed  from  her  aunt's  flustered  manner  that  something  im-  portant  was  to  be  discussed.  &quot;Oh,  have  no  worry  in  that  direction  at  [REDACTED];  she  heard  the  Archdeacon  say.  &quot;Gentle  as  a  lamb  that  man's  become.&quot;  Her  aunt  asked  a  question  Attracta  could  not  hear,  because  of  the  sound  of  a  teacup  being  replaced  on  a  saucer.  &quot;He's  do-  ing  the  best  he  can,&quot;  the  Archdeacon  continued,  &quot;according  to  his  lights.&quot;  Her  aunt  mentioned  Geraldine  Carey,  and  again  the  Archdeacon  reassured  her.  &quot;Bygones  are  bygones,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Isn't  it  a  remarkable  thing  when  a  man  gets  caught  in  his  own  snare?&quot;  He  commented  on  the  quality  of  her  aunt's  fruitcake  and  then  said  that  ev-  eryone  should  be  charitably  disposed  toward  Mr.  Devereux  and  Geraldine  Carey.  He  believed,  he  said,  thatthat  was  God's  wish.  After  that,  slowly  over  the  years,  Attracta's  aunt  began  to  think  more  highly  of  Mr.  Devereux,  until  in  the  end  there  was  no  one  in  the  entire  town,  with  the  possible  exception  of  Archdeacon  Flower,  whom  she  held  in  greater  esteem.  Once  when  Phelan  the  coal  merchant  insisted  that  she  hadn't  paid  forhalf  a  ton  of  coal  and  she  recol-  lected  perfectly  giving  the  money  to  the  man  who'd  delivered  it,  Mr.  Devereux  had  come  to  her  aid.  &quot;A  right  old  devil,  Phelan  is,&quot;  Attracta  heard  him  saving  in  the  hall,  and  that  was  the  end  of  the  matter.  On  Saturday  evenings,  having  kept  Attracta  company  on  her  walk  home,  Mr.  Devereux  might  remain  for  a  little  while  in  the  house  in  North  Street.  He  sometimes  brought  lettuces  or  cuttings  with  him,  or  tomatoes  or  strawberries.  He  would  take  a  glass  of  sherry  in  the  trim  little  sitting  room  with  its  delicate  inlaid  chairs  that  matched  the  delicacy  of  Attracta's  aunt.  Often  he'd  still  be  there,  taking  a  sec-  ond  glass,  when  Attracta  came  down  to  say  good  night.  Her  aunt's  cat,  Dig-  gory,  liked  to  climb  up  onto  his  knees,  and  as  if  in  respect  of  some  kind  Mr.  Devereux  never  lighted  his  pipe.  He  and  her  aunt  would  converse  in  low  voices,  and  generally  they'd  cease  when  Attracta  entered  the  room.  She  would  kiss  him  good  night  after  she'd  kissed  her  aunt,  She  imagined  it  was  what  having  a  father  was  like.  AT  the  town's  approximate  center  there  stood  a  gray  woman  on  a  pedestal:  a  statue  of  the  Maid  of  Erin.  It  was  here,  only  yards  from  this  monument,  that  Mr.  Purce  told  At-     " b"tracta,  when  she  was  eleven,  the  truth  about  her  parents'  death.  She'd  always  had  the  feeling  that  Mr.  Purce  wanted  to  speak  to  her-even  that  he  was  wait-  ing  until  she  could  understand  what  it  was  he  had  to  say.  He  was  a  man  peo-  ple  didn't  much  like;  he'd  settled  in  the  town,  having  come  there  from  somewhere  else.  He  was  a  clerk  in  the  courthouse.  &quot;There's  a  place  I  know  where  there's  greenfinches,&quot;  he  said,  as  if  in-  troducing  himself.  &quot;Ten  nests  of  them,  maybe  twelve,  maybe  more.  Do  you  understand  me,  Attracta?  Would  you  like  me  to  show  you?&quot;  She  was  on  her  way  home  from  school.  She  had  to  get  back  to  do  her  homework,  she  said  to  Mr.  Purce.  She  didn't  want  to  go  looking  for  green-  finches  with  him.  &quot;Did  Devereux  tell  you  not  to  talk  to  Mr.  Purce?&quot;  he  said,  and  she  shook  her  head.  As  far  as  she  could  remem-  ber,  Mr.  Devereux  had  never  men-  tioned  Mr.  Purce.  &quot;I  see  you  in  church,&quot;  Mr.  Purce  said.  She  had  seen  him,  too,  sitting  in  the  front,  over  on  the  left-hand  side.  Her  aunt  had  often  remarked  that  the  day  Mr.  Purce  didn't  go  to  church  it  would  be  a  miracle.  It  was  like  Geraldine  Carey  going  to  [REDACTED]  &quot;I'll  walk  out  with  you,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  have  a  half  day  today  for  myself.&quot;  They  walked  together,  to  her  em-  barrassment.  She  glanced  at  shopwin-  dows  to  catch  a  glimpse  of  their  reflec-  tion,  to  see  if  they  looked  as  awkward  as  she  felt.  He  was  only  a  head  taller  than  she,  and  part  of  that  was  made  up  by  his  hard  black  hat.  His  clerk's  suit  was  double-breasted,  navy  blue  with  a  pale  stripe  in  it,  shiny  here  and  there,  in  need  of  a  good  ironing.  He  wore  black  leather  gloves  and  carried  a  walk-  ing  stick.  He  always  had  the  gloves  and  the  walking  stick  in  church,  but  his  Sunday  suit  was  superior  to  the  one  he  worenow.  Her  own  fair  hair,  pinned  up  under  her  green-brimmed  hat,  was  the  most  distinctive  feature  of  their  joint  reflection.  The  color  of  good  corn,  Mr.  Devereux  used  to  say,  and  she  al-  ways  considered  that  a  compliment,  coming  from  a  grain  merchant.  Her  face  was  thin  and  her  eyes  blue,  but  repeated  in  the  shopwindows  there  was  now  only  a  blur  of  flesh,  a  thin  shaft  between  her  hat  and  the  green  coat  that  matched  it.  &quot;You've  had  misfortune,  Attracta.&quot;  Solemnly  he  nodded,  repeating  the  mo-  tion  of  his  head  until  she  wished  he'd  stop.  &quot;It  was  a  terrible  thing  to  be  killed  by  mistake.&quot;  Attracta  didn't  know  what  he  was  talking  about.  They  passed  by  the  last  of  the  shops  in  North  Street:  [REDACTED]'s  grocery  and  bar,  O'Brien's  bakery,  the  hardware  that  years  ago  had  run  out  of  stock.  The  narrow  street  widened  a  bit.  Mr.  Purce  said,  &quot;Has  she  made  a  Catholic  girl  out  of  you,  Attracta?&quot;  &quot;Who,  Mr.  Purce?&quot;  &quot;Devereux's  woman.  Has  she  tried  anything  on?  Has  she  shown  you  rosary  beads?&quot;  She  shook  her  head.  &quot;Don't  ever  look  at  them  if  she  does,  Look  away  immediately  if  she  gets  them  out  of  her  apron  or  anything  like  that.  Will  you  promise  me  that,  girl?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  think  she  would.  I  don't  think  Mr.  Devereux-&quot;  &quot;You  can  never  tell  with  that  crowd.  There  isn't  a  trick  in  the  book  they  won't  hop  on  to.  Will  you  prom-  ise  me,  now?  Have  nothing  to  do  with  carry-on  like  that.&quot;  Yes,  Mr,  Purce.&quot;  As  they  walked,  he  prodded  at  the  litter  on  the  pavement  with  his  walking  stick.  Cigarette  packets  and  squashed  matchboxes  flew  into  the  gut-  ter,  bits  of  the  Cork  Examiner,  sodden  paper  bags.  He  was  known  for  this  ac-  tivity  in  the  town,  and  even  when  he  was  on  his  own  his  voice  was  often  heard,  protesting  at  the  untidiness.  &quot;I'm  surprised  they  never  told  you,  Attracta,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;What  are  you  now,  girl?&quot;  &quot;I'm  eleven.&quot;  &quot;A  big  girl  should  know  things  like  that.&quot;  &quot;What  things,  Mr.  Purce?&quot;  He  nodded  in  his  repetitious  man-  ner,  and  then  he  explained  himself.  The  tragedy  had  occurred  in  darkness,  at  night:  her  parents  had  accidental-  ly  become  involved  with  an  ambush  meant  for  the  Black  and  Tan  soldiers  who  were  in  force  in  the  area  at  the  time.  She  herself  had  long  since  been  asleep  at  home,  and  as  Mr.  Purce  spoke  she  remembered  waking  up  to  find  herself  in  a  bed  in  her  aunt's  house  without  knowing  how  she  got  there.  &quot;That's  how  they  got  killed,  At-  tracta,&quot;  Mr.  Purce  said,  and  then  he  said  an  extraordinary  thing.  &quot;You've  got  Devereux  and  his  woman  to  thank  for  it.&quot;  She  knew  that  the  Black  and  Tan  soldiers  had  been  camped  near  the  town;  she  knew  there  had  been  fight-  ing.  She  realized  that  the  truth  about  the  death  had  been  counted  too  ter-  rible  for  a  child  to  bear.  But  that  her  parents  should  have  been  shot,  and  shot  in  error,  that  the  whole  thing   had  somehow  been  the  responsibility  of  Mr.  Devereux  and  Geraldine  Carey  seemed  inconceivable  to  Attracta.  ''They  destroyed  a  decent  Protes-  tant  pair,&quot;  Mr.  Purce  continued,  still  flicking  litter  from  the  pavement.  &quot;Half  ten  at  night  on  a  public  road,  destroyed  like  pests.&quot;  The  sun,  obscured  by  clouds  while  Attracta  and  Mr.  Purce  had  made  the  journey  from  the  center  of  the  town,  was  suddenly  warm  on  Attracta's  face.  A  woman  in  ahorse  and  cart,  attired  in  the  black  hooded  cloak  ofthe  locality,  passed  slowly  by.  There  were  sacks  of  meal  in  the  cart,  which  had  probably  come  from  Mr.  Devereux's  mill.  &quot;Do  you  understand  what  I'm  say-  ing  to  you,  Attracta?  Devereux  was  organizing  resistance  up  in  the  hills.  He  had  explosives  and  booby  traps,  he  was  drilling  men  to  go  and  kill  people.  Did  nobody  tell  you  about  himself  and  Geraldine  Carey?&quot;  She  shook  her  head.  He  nodded  again,  as  if  to  indicate  that  little  better  could  be  expected.  &quot;Listen  to  me,  Attracta.  Geraldine  Carey  was  brought  into  this  town  by  the  man  she  got  married  to,  who  used  to  work  at  Devereux's  mill.  Six  months  later  she'd  joined  up  with  Devereux  in  the  type  of  dirty  behavior  I  wouldn't  soil  myself  telling  you  about.  Not  only  that,  Attracta,  she  was  gunrunning  with  him.  She  was  fixing  explosives  like  a  man  would,  dressed  up  like  a  man  in  a  uniform.  Devereux  was  as  wild  as  a  savage.  There  was  nothing  Dev-  ereux  wouldn't  do;  there  was  noth-  ing  the  woman  wouldn't  do,  either.  They'd  put  booby  traps  down  on  roads  and  it  didn't  matter  who  got  killed.  They'd  ambush  the  British  soldiers  when  the  soldiers  didn't  have  a  chance.&quot;  It  was  impossible  to  believe  him.  It  was  impossible  to  visualize  the  house-  " b"keeper  and  Mr.  Devereux  in  the  roles  he'd  given  them.  No  one  with  any  sense  could  believe  that  Geraldine  Carey  would  kill  people.  Was  every-  thing  Mr.  Purce  said  a  lie?  He  was  a  peculiar  man:  had  he  some  reason  for  stating  that  her  mother  and  her  father  had  met  their  deaths  in  this  way?  &quot;Your  father  was  adecent  man,  Attracta.  He  was  never  drunk  in  his  life.  There  was  prayers  for  him  in  the  chapel,  but  that  was  only  a  hypocrisy  of  the  priests.  Wouldn't  the  priest  Quinn  like  to  see  every  Protestant  in  this  town  dead  and  buried?  Wouldn't  he  like  to  see  you  and  me  six  foot  down,  with  clay  in  our  eye  sockets?&quot;  Attracta  didn't  believe  that,  and  more  certainly  now  it  seemed  to  her  that  everything  Mr.  Purce  said  was  untrue,  Catholics  were  different:  they  crossed  themselves  when  they  passed  their  chapel;  they  went  in  for  crosses  and  confession;  they  had  Masses  and  candles.  But  it  was  hard  to  accept  that  Father  Quinn,  a  jovial,  red-faced  man,  would  prefer  it  if  she  were  dead.  She'd  heard  her  aunt's  maid,  Philomena,  say-  ing  that  Father  Doran  was  cantanker-  ous  and  that  Father  Martin  wasn't  worth  his  salt,  but  neither  of  them  seemed  to  Attracta  to  be  the  kind  of  man  who  would  wish  people  dead.  &quot;P  roddy-woddy  green-guts,&quot;  Catho-  lic  children  would  shout  out  sometimes.  &quot;Catty  Catty  going  to  Mass,&quot;  the  Prot-  estants  would  reply,  &quot;riding  on  the  Devil's  ass.&quot;  But  there  was  never  much  vindictiveness  about  any  of  it.  T  he  sides  were  unevenly  matched:  there  were  too  few  Protestants  in  the  town  to  make  a  proper  opposition;  trouble  was  avoided.  &quot;Devereux  was  a  traitor  to  his  re-  ligion,  Attracta,  And  I'll  promise  you  this:  if  I  was  to  tell  you  about  that  woman  of  his,  you  wouldn't  enter  the  house  they  have.&quot;  ZRCCTE,  Abruptly  he  turned  and  walked  away,  back  into  the  town,  his  walking  stick  still  frantically  working,  poking  away  any  litter  it  could  find.  The  sun  was  hot  now.  Attracta  felt  sticky  within  her  several  layers  of  clothes.  She  had  a  chapter  of  her  his-  tory  book  to  read,  about  the  Saxons  coming  to  [REDACTED].  She  had  four  long-division  sums  to  do,  and  seven  lines  of  poetry  to  learn.  &quot;What  po-  tions  have  I  drunk  of  Syren  tears,&quot;  the  first  one  went-a  statement  At-  tracta  could  make  neither  head  nor  tail  of.  She  didn't  go  straight  home.  In-  stead  she  turned  off  to  the  left  and  walked  through  a  back  street,  out  in-  to  the  country.  She  passed  fields  of  mangels  and  turnips,  again  trying  to  imagine  the  scenes  Mr.  Purce  had  sketched  for  her:  the  ambush  of  men  waiting  forthe  soldiers,  the  firing  of  shots.  It  occurred  to  her  that  she  had  never  asked  anyone  if  her  parents  were  buried  in  the  Church  of  Ireland  grave,  yard.  She  passed  by  tinkers  encamped  on  the  verge  of  the  road.  A  woman  ran  after  her  and  asked  her  for  money,  saying  her  husband  had  just  died.  She  swore  when  Attracta  said  she  hadn't  any,  and  then  her  manner  changed  again.  She  developed  a  whine  in  her  voice,  she  said  she'd  pray  for  Attracta  if  she'd  bring  her  money,  tomorrow  or  the  next  day.  Had  Mr.  Purce  only  wished  to  turn  her  against  Mr.  Devereux  because  Mr.  Devereux  did  not  go  to  church?  Was  there  no  more  to  it  than  that?  Did  Mr.  Purce  say  the  first  thing  that  came  into  his  head?  As  Attracta  walked,  the  words  of  Archdeacon  Flower  came  back  to  her:  in  stating  that  Mr.  Devereux  was  now  as  gentle  as  a  lamb,  was  there  the  implication  that  once  he  hadn't  been?  And  had  her  aunt,  worried  about  Geraldine  Carey,  been  reassured  on  that  score  also?  &quot;It's  all  over  now,  dear,&quot;  her  aunt  said  on  the  evening  of  Attrac-  ta's  encounter  with  Mr.  Purce.  She  looked  closely  at  Attracta  and  then  put  her  arms  around  her,  as  if  expecting  tears.  But  tears  didn't  come,  for  Attracta  was  only  amazed.  IFTY  years  later,  walking  through  the  heather  by  the  sea,  At-  tracta  remembered  vividly  that  moment  of  her  child-  hood,  She  couldn't  understand  how  Mr.  Devereux  and  Geraldine  Carey  had  changed  so.  &quot;Maybe  they  bear  the  burden  of  guilt,&quot;  Archdeacon  Flower  had  explained,  summoned  to  the  house  by  her  aunt.  &quot;Maybe  they  look  at  you  and  feel  responsible.  It  was  an  accident,  butpeople  can  feel  re-  sponsible  for  an  accident.&quot;  What  had  happened  was  in  the  past,  he  reminded  her,  as  her  aunt  had.  She  understood  what  they  were  implying,  that  it  must  all  be  forgotten,  yet  she  couldn't  help  imagining  Mr.  Devereux  and  his  housekeeper  laying  booby  traps  on  roads  and  drilling  men  in  the  hills.  Geraldine  Carey's  husband  had  left  the  town,  Mr.  Purce  told  her  on  a  later  occasion:  he'd  gone  to  County  Louth  and  hadn't  been  heard  of  since.  &quot;Whore,&quot;  Mr.  Purce  said.  &quot;No  bet-  ter  than  a  whore  she  is.&quot;  Attracta,  looking  the  word  up  in  a  dictionary,  was  astonished.  Having  started,  Mr.  Purce  went  on  and  on.  Mr.  Devereux's  house  wasn't  suitable  for  an  eleven-year-old  girl  to  visit,  since  it  was  the  house  of  a  murderer.  Wasn't  it  a  disgrace  that  a  Protestant  girl  should  set  foot  in  a  house  where  the  deaths  of  British  sol-  diers  and  the  Protestant  Irish  had  been  planned?  One  Saturday  afternoon,  un-  able  to  restrain  himself,  he  arrived  at  Mr.  Devereux's  house.  He  shouted  at  Mr.  Devereuxfrom  the  open  hall  door.  &quot;Isn't  it  enough  to  have  destroyed  her  father  and  mother  without  letting  that  woman  steal  her  for  the  Pope?&quot;  His  gray  face  had  darkened  beneath  his  hard  hat,  his  walking  stick  thrashed  the  air.  Mr.  Devereux  called  him  an  Orange  Mason.  &quot;I  hate  the  bloody  sight  of  you,&quot;  Mr.  Purce  said  in  a  quieter  voice,  and  then  in  his  abrupt  way  he  left.  That,  too,  Attracta  remembered  as  she  continued  her  way  around  the  headland.  Mr.  Devereux  afterward  " b"never  referred  to  it,  and  Mr.  Purce  never  spoke  to  her  again,  as  if  deciding  that  there  was  nothing  left  to  say.  In  the  town,  as  she  grew  up,  people  would  reluctantly  answer  her  when  she  ques-  tioned  them  about  her  parents'  tragedy  in  an  effort  to  discover  more  than  her  aunt  or  Archdeacon  Flower  had  re-  vealed.  But  nothing  new  emerged,  the  people  she  asked  only  agreeing  that  Mr.  Devereux  in  those  days  had  been  as  wild  as  Mr.  Purce  suggested.  He'd  drilled  the  local  men,  he'd  been  as-  sisted  in  every  way  by  Geraldine  Carey,  whose  husband  had  gone  away  to  County  Louth.  Her  aunt  tried  to  explain  to  her  the  nature  of  Mr.  Purce's  hatred  of  Mr.  Devereux.  Mr.  Purce  saw  things  in  a  certain  light,  she  said;  he  could  not  help  himself.  He  couldn't  help  be-  lieving  that  Father  Quinn  would  pre-  fer  the  town's  Protestants  to  be  dead  and  buried.  He  couldn't  help  believ-  ing  that  immorality  continued  in  the  relationship  between  Mr.  Devereux  and  his  housekeeper  when  clearly  it  did  not.  He  found  a  spark  and  made  a  fire  of  it;  he  was  a  bigot  and  was  unable  to  do  anything  about  it.  The  Protestants  of  the  town  felt  ashamed  of  him.  Mr.  Purce  died,  and  was  said  to  have  continued  in  his  hatred  with  his  last  re-  maining  breaths.  He  mentioned  the  Protestant  girl,  his  bleak,  harsh  voice  weakening.  She  had  been  contaminated  and  infect-  ed,  she  was  herself  no  better  than  the  people  who  used  her  for  their  evil  purposes.  She  was  not  fit  to  teach  the  Prot-  estant  children  of  the  town,  as  she  was  now  commencing  to  do.  &quot;As  I  lie  dying,&quot;  Mr.  Purce  said  to  the  clergyman  who  had  succeeded  Archdeacon  Flower,  &quot;I  am  telling  you  that,  sir.&quot;  But  afterward,  when  the  story  of  Mr.  Purce's  death  went  around,  the  people  of  the  town  looked  at  Attracta  with  a  certain  admiration,  seeming  to  suggest  that  for  her  the  twisting  of  events  had  not  been  easy:  neither  the  death  of  her  parents  nor  the  forgiveness  asked  of  her  by  Mr.  Devereux  nor  the  bigotry  of  Mr.  Purce.  She'd  been  caught  in  the  middle  of  things,  they  seemed  to  suggest,  and  had  sur-  vived  unharmed.  Surviving,  she  was  happy  in  the  town-too  happy  to  marry  the  ex-  change  clerk  from  the  Bank  of  Ire-  land  or  the  young  man  who  came  on  holidays  to  Cedarstrand  with  his  par-  ents.  &quot;Pride  goeth  before  destruction,&quot;  her  pupils  copied  out,  and  &quot;Look  be-  fore  you  leap.&quot;  Their  fingers  pressed  hard  on  inky  pens,  knuckles  jutting  with  the  strain,  tongue  tips  aiding  con-  centration.  Ariadne,  Finn  Mac  Cool,  King  Arthur's  sword,  Cathleen  ni  Houlihan:  legends  filled  the  school-  room,  along  with  facts  about  the  Ro-  mans  and  the  Normans,  square  roots,  and  the  Gulf  Stream.  Children  grew  up  and  went  away,  returning  some-  times  to  visit  Attracta  in  her  house  in  North  Street.  Others  remained,  and  in  the  town  she  watched  them  changing,  gray  coming  into  their  hair,  no  longer  moving  as  lithely  as  they  had.  She  developed  an  affection  for  the  town  without  knowing  why,  beyond  its  be-  ing  part  of  her.  &quot;Yet  in  all  a  lifetime  I  learned  nothing,&quot;  she  said  aloud  to  herself  on  the  headland.  &quot;And  I  taught  noth-  ing,either.&quot;  She  gazed  out  at  the  smooth  blue  Atlantic  but  did  not  see  it  clearly.  She  saw  instead  the  brown-  paper  parcel  that  contained  the  biscuit  box  she  had  read  about,  and  the  fingers  of  Penelope  Vade  undoing  the  string     and  the  brown  paper,  She  saw  her  lift-  ing  off  the  lid.  She  saw  her  frown-  ing  fora  moment,  before  the  eyes  of  the  man  she  loved  stared  deadly  into  hers.  Months  later,  all  courage  spent,  defeated  in  her  gesture,  the  body  of  Penelope  Vade  dragged  itself  across  the  floors  of  two  different  rooms.  There  was  the  bottle  full  of  aspirins  in  a  cup-  board,  and  water  drunk  from  a  Wedg-  wood-patterned  cup,  like  the  cups  At-  tracta  drank  from  every  day.  IN  her  schoolroom  with  its  maps  and  printed  pictures  the  sixteen  faces  stared  at  hers,  the  older  children  at  the  back.  She  repeated  her  question  :  &quot;Now,  what  does  anyone  think  of  that?&quot;  Again  she  read  them  the  news  item,  reading  it  slowly  because  she  wanted  it  to  become  as  rooted  in  their  minds  as  it  was  in  hers.  She  lingered  over  the  number  of  bullets  that  had  been  fired  into  the  body  of  Penelope  Vade's  hus-  band,  and  over  the  removal  of  his  head,  &quot;Can  you  see  that  girl?  Can  you  imagine  men  putting  a  human  head  in  a  tin  box  and  sending  it  through  the  post?  Can  you  imagine  her  receiving  it?  The  severed  head  of  the  man  she  loved?&quot;  &quot;Sure,  isn't  there  stuff  like  that  in  the  papers  the  whole  time?&quot;  one  of  the  children  suggested.  She  agreed  that  this  was  so.  &quot;I've  had  a  good  life  in  this  town,&quot;  she  added,  and  the  children  looked  at  her  as  if  she'd  suddenly  turned  mad.  &quot;I'm  getting  out  of  it,&quot;  one  of  them  said  after  a  pause.  &quot;Back  of  beyond,  Miss.&quot;  She  began  at  the  begin-  ning.  She  tried  to  get  into  the  children's  minds  an  image  of  a  baby  sleeping  while  violence  and  death  took  place  on  the  Cork  road.  She  described  her  Aunt  Emmeline's  house  in  North  Street:  the  neat  feminine  house  it  had  been;  her  aunt's  cat,  Dig-  gory;  the  small  sitting  room;  her  aunt's  maid,  Philomena.  She  spoke  of  her  own  very  fair  hair  and  her  thin  face,  and  the  heavy,  old-fashioned  clothes  she'd  worn  in  those  days.  She  spoke  of  the  piety  of  Geraldine  Carey,  and  the  grain  mer-  chant's  tired  face.  'The  " b"friendship  they  offered  her  was  like  Penelope  Vade  proclaiming  peace  in  the  city  where  her  husband  had  been  killed  ;  it  was  a  gesture,  too.  &quot;His  house  would  smell  of  roses  on  a  summer's  day,  She'd  carry  his  meals  to  him,  coming  out  of  the  shadows  of  her  kitchen.  As  if  in  mourning,  the  blue  blinds  darkened  the  drawing  room.  It  was  they  who  bore  the  tragedy,  not  I.&quot;  She  described  Mr.  Purce's  face  and  his  grating  voice.  She  tried  to  make  of  him  a  figure  they  could  see  among  the  houses  and  shops  that  were  familiar  to  them:  the  hard  black  hat,  the  walking  stick  poking  away  litter.  He  had  done  his  bestto  rescue  her,  acting  according  to  his  beliefs.  He  wanted  her  not  to  forget-not  realizing  that  there  was  nothing  for  her  to  remember.  &amp;  &amp;  &quot;But  I  tried  to  imagine,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;as  I  am  asking  you  to  imagine  now:  my  mother  and  father  shot  dead  on  the  Cork  road,  and  Mr.  Devereux  and  Geraldine  Carey  as  two  monstrous  peo-  ple,  and  arms  being  blown  off  soldiers,  and  vengeance  breeding  vengeance.&quot;  A  child  raised  a  hand  and  asked  to  leave  the  room.  Attracta  gave  permis-  sion  and  awaited  the  child's  return  before  proceeding.  She  filled  the  time  by  describing  things  that  had  changed  in  the  town:  the  falling  to  pieces  of  O'Mara's  picture  house,  the  closing  of  the  tannery  in  1938.  When  the  child  came  back,  she  told  of  Mr.  Purce's  death-how  he'd  said  she  was  not  fit  to  teach  Protestant  children.  &quot;I  tried  to  imagine  a  night  I'd  heard  about,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;when  Mr.  Dever-  eux's  men  found  a  man  in  Madden's  public  house  whom  they  said  had  be-  trayed  them,  and  how  they  took  him  out  to  Cedarstrand  and  hanged  him  in  a  barn.  Were  they  pleased  after  they'd  done  that?  Did  they  light  cigarettes,  saying  the  man  was  better  dead?  One  of  those  other  men  must  have  gone  to  a  post  office  with  the  wrapped  biscuit  box.  He  must  have  watched  it  being  weighed  and  paid  the  postage.  Did  he  say  to  himself  he  was  exceptional  to  have  hoodwinked  a  post-office  clerk?&quot;  Obediently  listening  in  their  rows  of  worn  desks,  the  children  wondered  what  on  earth  all  this  was  about.  No  ge-  ography  or  history  lesson  had  ever  been  so  bewildering;  those  who  found  arith-  metic  difficult  would  have  settled  for  attempting  to  understand  it  now.  They  " b"watched  the  lined  face  of  their  teach-  er,  still  thin  as  she'd  said  it  had  been  in  childhood,  the  fair  hair  gray  now.  The  mouth  twitched  and  rapidly  moved,  seeming  sometimes  to  quiver  as  ifit  struggled  against  tears.  W  hat  on  earth  had  this  person  called  Penelope  Vade  to  do  with  anything?  &quot;She  died  believing  that  hell  had  come  already.  She'd  lost  all  faith  in  human  life,  and  who  can  blame  her?  She  might  have  stayed  in  Haslemere,  as  anyone  else  would  have.  Was  she  right  to  go  to  the  city  where  her  husband  had  been  murdered,  to  show  its  other  victims  that  her  spirit  had  not  been  wholly  crushed?&quot;  No  one  answered,  and  At-  tracta  was  aware  of  the  children's  startled  gaze.  But  the  startled  gaze  was  a  natural  reaction.  She  said  to  herself  that  it  didn't  matter.  &quot;My  story  is  one  with  hers,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Horror  stories,  with  different  endings  only.  I  think  of  her  now  and  I  can  see  quite  clearly  the  flat  she  lived  in  in  [REDACTED].  I  can  see  the  details-cor-  rectly  or  not  I've  no  idea.  Wallpaper  with  a  pattern  of  brownish-purple  flow-  ers  on  it,  gaunt  furniture  casting  shad-  ows,  atea  caddy  on  the  hired  television  set.  I  drag  my  body  across  the  floors  of  two  rooms,  over  a  carpet  that  smells  of  dust  and  cigarette  ash,  over  rugs  and  cool  linoleum.  I  reach  up  in  the  kitchen,  a  hand  on  the  edge  of  the  sink:  one  by  one  I  eat  the  aspirins  until  the  bottle's  empty.&quot;  There  was  a  silence.  Feet  were  shuffled  in  the  schoolroom.  No  one  spoke.  &quot;If  only  she  had  known,&quot;  Attracta  said,  &quot;that  there  was  still  a  faith  she  might  have  had,  that  God  does  not  forever  withhold  His  mercy.  Will  those  same  men  who  exacted  that  vengeance  on  her  one  day  keep  bees  and  budgeri-  gars?  Will  they  serve  in  shops,  and  be  kind  to  the  blind  and  the  deaf?  Will  they  garden  in  the  evenings  and  be  good  fathers?  It  is  not  impossible.  Oh,  can't  you  see,&quot;  she  cried,  &quot;what  hap-  pened  in  this  town?  Here,  at  the  back  of  beyond.  Can't  you  appreciate  it?  And  can't  you  see  her  lying  there,  mice  nibbling  her  dried  blood?&quot;  The  children  still  were  quiet,  their  faces  not  registering  the  comment  she  wished  to  make,.  It  was  because  she'd  been  clumsy,  she  thought.  All  she'd  meant  to  tell  them  was  never  to  de-  spair.  All  she  had  meant  to  do  was  to  prepare  them  for  a  future  that  looked  grim.  She  had  been  happy,  she  said  again.  The  conversation  of  Mr.  Purce  had  been  full  of  the  truth  but     it  hadn't  made  sense,  because  the  years  had  turned  the  truth  around.  To  the  children,  she  appeared  to  be  talking  now  to  herself.  She  was  old,  a  few  of  them  said  to  themselves;  that  was  it.  She  didn't  appear  to  understand  that  almostevery  day  there  was  the  kind  of  vengeance  she  spoke  of  report-  ed  on  the  television,  Bloodshed  was  wholesale,  girls  were  tarred  and  left  for  dead,  children  no  older  than  them-  selves  were  armed  with  guns.  &quot;I  only  hope,&quot;  they  heard  her  say-  ing,  &quot;she  knows  that  strangers  mourn  her.&quot;  Another  silence  lingered  awk-  wardly,  and  then  she  nodded  at  a  particular  child  and  the  child  rose  and  rang  a  hand  bell.  The  children  filed  away,  well  mannered  and  docileas  she  had  taught  them  to  be.  She  watched  them  in  the  play-  ground,  standing  in  twos  and  threes,  talking  about  her.  It  had  meant  noth-  ing  when  she'd  said  that  people  change.  The  gleam  of  hope  she'd  offered  had  been  too  slight  to  be  of  use,  irrelevant  in  the  horror  they  took  for  granted  as  part  of  life,  Yet  she  couldnot  help  still  believing  that  it  mattered  when  monsters  did  not  remain  monsters  for-  ever.  It  wasn't  much  to  put  against  the  last  bleak  moments  of  Penelope  Vade,  but  it  was  something  for  all  that.  She  wished  she  could  have  made  her  point.  Twenty  minutes  later,  when  the  children  returned  to  the  schoolroom,  her  voice  no  longer  quivered,  nor  did  it  seem  to  struggle  against  tears.  The  older  children  learned  about  agricul-  ture  in  [REDACTED],  the  younger  ones  about  the  Pyrenees,  the  youngest  that  Mun-  ster  had  six  counties.  The  day  came  to  an  end  at  three  o'clock,  and  when  all  the  children  had  gone  Attracta  locked  the  schoolroom  and  walked  to  the  house  she  had  inherited  in  North  Street.  WEEK  later  Archdeacon  Flow-  er's  successor  came  to  see  her,  his  visit  interrupting  further  violence  on  the  television  news.  He  beat  about  the  bush  while  he  nibbled  biscuits  and  drank  cups  of  tea  by  the  fire;  then  he  suggested  that  perhaps  she  should  con-  sider  retiring  one  of  these  days.  She  was  over  sixty,  he  pointed  out  with  his  clerical  laugh,  and  she  replied  that  Mr.  Ayrie  had  gone  on  until  seventy.  Sixty,  the  clergyman  repeated  with  another  laugh,  was  the  post's  retirement  age.  Children  were  a  handful  nowadays.  She  smiled,  thinking  of  her  sixteen  docile  charges,  They  had  chattered  to  their  parents,  and  the  parents  had  been  shocked  to  hear  that  they'd  been  told  of  a  man  decapitated  and  a  girl  raped  seven  times.  School  was  not  for  that,  they  had  angrily  protested  to  the  cler-  gyman,  and  he  had  had  no  option  but  to  agree.  At  the  end  of  the  summer  term  there  would  be  a  presentation  of  Waterford  glass.  &quot;Every  day  of  my  life,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;I  should  have  honored  in  my  schoolroom  the  small,  remarkable  thing  that  hap-  pened  in  this  town.  It  matters  that  hu-  manity  reclaims  its  monsters.  It  matters  that  she  died  in  despair,  with  no  faith  left  in  human  life.&quot;  He  was  brisk.  For  as  long  as  most  people  could  remember,  she  had  been  a  remarkable  teacher;  in  no  way  had  she  failed.  He  turned  the  conversa-  tion  to  more  cheerful  topics,  he  ate  more  biscuits  and  a  slice  of  cake.  He  laughed  and  even  made  a  joke.  He  re-  tailed  a  little  harmless  gossip.  Eventually  she  stood  up.  She  walked  with  her  visitor  to  the  hall,  shook  hands  withhim,  and  saw  him  out.  In  the  sitting  room  she  piled  the  tea  things  onto  a  tray  and  placed  it  on  a  table  by  the  door,  She  turned  the  tele-  vision  on  again,  but  when  the  screen  lighted  up  she  didn't  notice  it.  The  face  of  Penelope  Vade  came  into  her  mind:  the  smile  a  little  crooked,  the  freck-  led  cheeks. "