 b"IT  is  a  July  day,  warm  but  temper-ate.  A  man  goes  up  the  front  steps,  hollowed  and  soft  with  age,  of  the  house  in  which  he  was  born.  His  name  is  John  Coulter.  The  house  is  his  mother's,  And  he  finds  her  on  her  old  slatted  porch  swing,  sending  it  whip-  ping  to  and  fro,  though  her  feet  bare-  ly  reach  the  floor.  Her  eyes  seem  to  him  clear,  not  blurred  and  wander-  ing  as  they  have  been  in  recent  days.  The  parchment  skin  of  her  face  looks  to  have  fewer  wrinkles.  Her  white-  her  almost  yellow-hair  is  caught  in  the  chignon  that,  he  recalls,  she  fan-  cied  when  he  was  a  child  and  her  hair  was  ginger  brown,.  She  is  wearing  a  starched  white  shirtwaist,  a  gray  pleat-  ed  skirt,  and  sensible  oxfords.  A  chain  of  long,  thin  gold  links  glints  on  her  neck  and  vanishes  into  her  blouse.  And  he  wonders  why  he  is  not  astonished,  why  he  is  not  afraid.  For  his  mother  is,  in  fact,  near  death,  though  lingering,  and  that  is  why  he  has  spent  three  rest-  less  weeks  in  her  house-a  thousand  miles  west  of  his  own,  in  a  suburban  town  on  the  [REDACTED].  Waiting.  A  duty.  He  knows  that  she  must  be  lying  in  a  nursing  home;  he  has  seen  her  there  only  a  few  hours  before.  But  now  he  simply  accepts  the  thought  that  she  may  have  wanted  to  talk  in  surround-  ings  less  forbidding.  There,  she  is  all  but  beyond  speech;  here,  she  is,  it  strikes  him,  rather  garrulous.  He  thinks  that  he  may  be  dreaming,  and  then  thinks  not.  He  looks  around;  thingsare  quite  as  they  should  be.  A  maple  stands  guard,  as  always,  between  the  house  and  the  street,  its  leaves  flickering  in  the  breeze  that  sends  oc-  casional  small  winged  seeds  spinning  to  the  grass.  The  old  cracked  sidewalk  shows  damp  spots  left  by  a  shower  that  morning;  he  recalls  the  shower  clearly.  Elmer,  the  next-door  collie  pup,  is  chas-  ing  squirrels  along  the  near  side  of  the  untrimmed  privet  hedge.  And  John  wonders  if  he  has  somehow  contrived  to  bring  his  mother  there.  A  figment,  perhaps,  a  tilt  of  the  mind.  The  days  have  been  strained  and  the  nights  long.  But,  whatever  the  case,  it  seems  im-  perative  not  to  startle-or  dispel-her.  He  draws  a  wicker  chair  forward  and  sits  down,  and  waits.  She  is  chattering  matter-of-factly  and  about  nothing  much,  yet  John  cannot  escape  the  feeling  that  she  may  have  come  to  reproach  him;  she  has  always  circled  the  point  of  a  reproof  before  getting  down  to  it,  &quot;The  chains  of  this  swing  have  been  squeaking  and  squawking  since  the  beginning  of  time,&quot; she  says.  &quot;A  drop  of  oil  at  the  top  is  all  they  need,  Your  father  built  it  him-  self  not  long  before  he  died.  You  wouldn't  remember.&quot;  (But  he  does.  He  was  only  four,  and  he  stood  in  awe  of  such  handiwork,  such  creation.)  She  tells  him  then  thatthe  side-  porch  steps  need  shoring.  She  seems  merely  to  be  reporting  domestic  trifles,  but  he  is  sure  that  she  also  means  to  say  that  he  has  not  visited  her  very  often  these  last  years-a  neglect  he  has  found  easy  to  excuse.  He  has  been  busy,  he  hasa  wife  and  grown  children  whom  he  loves  devotedly,  and  a  book-  store  that  also  has  his  deep  affection.  From  the  first,  he  has  shared  the  store  with  Miriam,  his  wife.  Largely  because  of  her  urging,  it  has  become  more  and  more  a  place  of  special  books-old  and  rare  ones,  books  with  histories.  And,  to  be  sure,  his  mother  has  seldom  seemed  to  him  to  be  in  need  of  anyone  at  all,  but  now  he  feels  the  hovering  guilt  that  has  been  at  him  since  he  came  there.  L  &quot;You  ere  very  busy,  [REDACTED];  she  says.  &quot;How  is  the  store  doing?  Going  well,  I'm  sure.  Do  give  my  best  to  Miriam  and  the  children.&quot;  And  he  wonders,  astonished,  how  she  has  contrived  to  read  his  mind.  He  thinks,  too,  of  how  often  and  how  far  during  his  stay  he  has  stumbled  into  the  past.  The  house  is  full  of  things  that,  as  he  prowled  it,  have  brought  him  memories  or  surprises.  A  rag  doll,  his  mother's  childhood  confidante,  now  worn  and  burst  at  the  seams,  with  only  one  button  eye  left.  His  father's  telescope,  the  larger  lens  still  cracked.  John's  own  doing.  And,  oddly,  a  medal  presented  by  the  Italian  government  to  one  Professore  George  Niles,  in  March  of  1922.  But  now  she  is  silent,  watching.  I  " b"know  the  look,  he  thinks.  Some  thing  should  be  getting  through  my  thick  head.  There  must  be  some  unfinished  business  b  etwee  n  u  s-a  matter  she  wants  brought  into  the  light  before  the  light  goes  out.  HE  swing.  It  came  into  partial  being  in  the  basement,  composed  of  some  narrow  lengths  of  wood,  a  pair  of  chains,  nuts  and  bolts,  a  can  of  var-  nish.  The  smell  of  the  varnish  was  pungent,  the  feel  of  sawdust,  scooped  from  the  floor,  was  soft.  The  swing  was  carried  in  segments  to  the  porch,  assembled  and  hung  there,  a  solid  ex-  pansion  of  the  property.  John's  father  chewed  gum  as  he  worked,  which  was  astonishing,  a  sight  never  seen  before;  John  himself  was  forbidden  the  pas-  time,  on  the  basis  of  vulgarity.  But  evi-  dently  it  was  helpful  to  the  job,  and  it  gave  his  father  an  unaccustomed  air  of  jauntiness.  He  was  a  bearded,  monu-  mental  man,  far  older  than  his  wife.  The  town  was  a  Midwestern  college  town,  and  Professor  Coulter,  head  of  English,  was  viewed  there  with  some  awe.  When  he  died,  a  year  or  so  after  the  building  of  the  swing,  there  was  a  great  deal  of  ceremony,  but  what  John  would  recall  (sitting  on  the  porch  near-  ly  half  a  century  later)  was  chiefly  the  arrival  of  several  aunts,  each  of  whom,  sighing,  embraced  and  stifled  him  in  folds  of  musty  black.  'The  ladies  did  not  stay  long  and  sel-  dom  came  again.  They  disapproved  of  John's  mother,  whom  they  regarded  as  a  child,  the  folly  of  their  brother's  mid-  dle  years.  One  of  them  did  make  a  courtesy  visit,  stopping  again  only  brief-  ly,  accepting  lemonade,  sitting  primly  with  John's  prim  mother  on  the  swing.  After  that,  John  and  his  mother  were  largely  left  alone  by  relatives-alone  in  a  great  creaking  house  built  by  the  Pro-  fessor's  grandfather.  And  John's  moth-  er  set  out  to  bring  him  up,  as  she  was  sure  her  husband  would  have  wanted,  under  firm  rules  of  obedience  and  duty  (love  between  close  kin  was  assumed  but  seldom  mentioned)  and  thrift.  'There  was  money-old  family  mon-  ey-half  of  it  left  to  her,  and  half  in  a  trust  fund  for  John  when  he  should  reach  twenty-five.  But  she  felt  her  share  was  not  fully  hers;  as  much  of  it  as  she  could  spare  must  someday  go  to  John.  She  used  enough,  reluctantly,  to  support  them  while  she  took  a  mas-  ter's  degree  in  Romance  languages,  after  which  she  hoped  that  she  could  find  work  as  a  teacher,  and  so  stand  on  her  own  feet.  When  she  got  the  de-  gree,  at  the  head  of  her  class,  she  was  at  once  invited  to  stay  and  teach  in  the  college-a  gesture  she  attributed  largely  to  respect  for  her  husband's  memory.  \xe2\x80\x9cW  HY  were  you  playing  with  that  telescope?&quot;  she  asks  him,  there  on  the  porch.  &quot;I  never  knew.  I  was  too  shocked  that  you'd  broken  it,  and  then  too  shocked  at  myself  for  striking  you.  Well-it  was  the  only  time.&quot;  Yes,  John  thinks,  the  onlytime  she  struck  me,and  just  about  the  only  time  I  saw  her  show  so  much  feeling.  But-  &quot;that&quot;  telescope?  How  does  she  know,  or  does  she,  that  I  came  on  it  only  last  night?  (She,  too,  was  in  awe  of  my  father,  and  after  his  death  the  respect  extended  to  his  relics.  But  did  she  love  him?)  &quot;I  was  being  Nelson  at  Copen-  hagen,&quot;  John  tells  her.  &quot;I  was  clapping  it  to  my  blind  eye  so  as  not  to  see  the  signal  to  retreat.  I  won  the  battle,  but  I  dropped  the  telescope.&quot;  &quot;I  see,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;All  the  odd  games  you  played!  You  had  an  overheated  imagination.  I  would  guess  that  you  still  have.&quot;  *  I  HE  games  were  played  in  the  large  back  yard  that  sloped  down  to  a  little  woods.  The  roles  John  played  were  usually  the  heroes  he  had  read  or  heard  about-Kit  Carson,  Charle-  magne,  Robin  Hood,  D'Artagnan-  and  he  alway  s  embellished  their  report-  ed  deeds.  He  had  few  friends.  He  was  under  standing  order  s  to  come  straight  home  from  school,  fix  himself  crackers  and  milk,  and  wait  for  his  mother.  Then,  after  classes,  she  would  send  him  to  the  grocer  or  the  drugstore  while  she  set  about  grading  papers.  The  subject  matter  of  John's  games  changed  as  he  grew  older,  to  be  re-  place  d  by  fantasies  seldom  more  factual.  During  the  first  year  of  high  school,  he  became,  in  his  reveries,  a  match-  less  halfback,  though  he  was  both  slight  and  timid.  And  in  political  autumns  he  was  likely  to  turn  orator.  So  when  the  chance  to  make  an  actual  speech  arose-a  tryout  for  the  debating  team-he  seized  it.  The  subject  was  the  growing  danger  of  Fascism.  John  wrote  his  speech  over  many  days,  in  the  kitchen  with  milk  and  crackers  along-  side,  putting  the  manuscript  out  of  sight  when  his  mother  was  due  to  come  home.  He  never  mentioned  it  to  her.  He  knew  she  would  insist  on  hearing  " b"the  speech,  and  he  was  em-  barrassed  by,  though  proud  of,  some  elegant  flourishes  in  its  peroration.  But  she  learned  of  thetryout  (though  she  also  refrained  from  speaking  of  it),  and  John,  standing  before  an  audience  of  students  and  teachers,  saw  her  slip  into  a  seat  in  the  rear  of  the  room.  He  got  through  the  speech,  and  that  evening  she  said  merely,  &quot;I  thought  you  did  reasonably  well.&quot;  He  was  chosen  for  the  team.  THE  swing  is  still  flailing  merrily  back  and  forth.  The  lady's  cheeks  are  sagging  a  litle  now.  Her  shoes  look  run  down;  they  have  tiny  cracks,  and  the  cotton  wad-  ding  she  sometimes  stuffed  into  an  ancient  pair  for  com-  fort  as  she  grew  older  is  peep-  ing  out.  Is  the  clue  to  her  coming  that  one-eyed  rag  doll,  John  wonders,  watching  her  warily.  I  remember  it  as  in  much  bet-  ter  shape.  Now  the  wreckage  is  carefully  wrapped  in  silk  and  kept  in  the  drawer  of  her  bed  table.  Could  she  have  been  cherishing  it,  on  and  on,  wear-  ing  it  out,  needing  it?  That's  ludicrous.  God  knows  she  has  always  been  more  than  self-sufficient.  Still  could  she  have  come  for  it  today?  &quot;I  happened  across  a  doll  I  think  you  had  as  a  child,&quot;  he  tells  her  off-  handedly.  &quot;I  coveted  it  when  I  was  small,  but  you  never  would  let  me  play  with  it.  It  had  a  name  that  I  don't  recall.&quot;  &quot;Jemima,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;And  if  you're  asking  what  she's  doing  in  that  drawer,  why,  I  suppose  I  just  liked  her  nearby.  She's  an  ugly  old  doll,  but  she  has  often  done  quite  well  as  an  adviser.  A  person  has  need  of  guidance  now  and  then,  and  I  could  never  fancy  anyone's  lis-  tening  if  I  prayed.&quot;  &quot;I  see.&quot;  &quot;Well,  you  needn't  look  so  embar-  rassed,&quot;  she  says,  grinning  a  little.  'Nobody  else  ever  knew,  least  of  all  your  father.  And  people  are  entitled  to  some  secrets.  When  I'm  gone,  just  get  rid  of  her.  She's  quite  beyond  repair.  But  do  it  kindly.&quot;  WHEN  it  was  time  for  John  to  go  to  college,  he  more  or  less  ran  away,  or  felt  that  he  did.  His  mother  had  suggested  from  time  to  time  that  he  attend  the  local  college  and  live   thriftily  at  home,  but  he  took  the  earn-  ingsof  a  summer  job,  hitchhiked  to  [REDACTED]  State,  and,  after  he  had  enrolled  there,  was  struck  by  the  notion  that  she  had  not  really  pressed  him  to  stay.  This  was  puzzling;  in  matters  of  thrift  she  was  likely  to  be  urgent.  He  went  home  for  all  vacations.  In  the  summer  of  his  sophomore  year,  he  arrived  in  an  elevated  state.  He  had  fallen  in  love.  And  on  a  Sunday  morn-  ing,  when,  unable  to  sleep,  he  had  gone  in  robe  and  slippers  to  the  porch  swing,  he  told  his  mother-who  won-  dered  what  had  got  into  him  and  what  the  neighbors  would  think-the  truth,  to  his  own  astonishment.  She  braced  herself  silently,  started  to  go  to  a  chair  that  faced  him,  then  sat  beside  him  on  the  swing,  resolutely  looking  toward  the  far  end  of  the  porch.  She's  small.  She  has  nice  hair  and  eyes.  Both  dark,&quot;  John  said,  more  and  more  astounded  by  his  ease.  &quot;She  likes  poetry,  and  we  read  it  together.  Some-  times  we  memorize  things.  Keats,  John  Donne,  Shakespeare's  songs-&quot;  His  mother  cleared  her  throat.  &quot;You're  a  young  man  now,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Perhaps  it's-late.  But  there  are  mat-ters  I  should  have  explained  to  you  long  ago.  Matters  I  should  have  pre-  ferred  your  father  to  explain.&quot;  After  a  moment,  John  said,  &quot;I  guess  I  know  what  you  mean.  You  don't  have  to  explain  anything  to  me  mow.  I  mean,  it's  not  late.  It's  just  that  I  know.  Anyway,  we  went  to  a  ballet  together.  It  seemed  as  if  they  were  do-  ing  it  for  us.  I  mean,  explaining  us  to  each  other,  and-&quot;  &quot;It  should  have  been  from  me.  Per-  haps  you  aren't  really  informed.  Pick-  up  talk,  street  talk-whatever.&quot;  &quot;I'm  informed,&quot;  John  said.  &quot;Some  of  it  was  street  talk,  I  suppose,  but  some  I  got  out  of  the  Encyclopaedia  Britannica  when  I  was  twelve  or  thir-  teen.  I  couldn't  understand  all  the  words  at  first,  but  I  finally  figured  them  out.  Anyway,  after  that  ballet-&quot;  &quot;Well,  then,&quot;  his  mother  said,  &quot;we  can  drop  the  subject.  I'm  only  sorry  you  didn't  learn  properly  from  me.  I  was  negligent.&quot; &quot;We  have  always  talked  past  each  other,&quot;  John  says  to  himself,  remembering.  The  swing  slows,  and  his  visiting  mother,  seeming  older  now,  stares  at  her  twisted  hands.  " b"led  -  well  -  parallel  lives.  They  may  meet  in  infinity.  If  ever. &quot;  And  abrupt-ly  he  thinks  of  the  strange  Italian  medal  under  a  pile  of  scented  hand-kerchiefs  in  his  mother's  top  dresser  drawer.  He  had  been  asked  to  bring  handkerchiefs  to  her  nursing  home,  and  so  he  had  found  the  medal.  George  Niles,  he  thinks.  Professor  Niles.  I  never  supposed  he  had  a  first  name  other  than  that  -  a  tall,  drab  man  who  always  gave  me  licorice  drops  out  of  a  crumpled  bag.  He  called  each  Sunday  afternoon  at  a  quarter  to  four,  staying  exactly  thirty  minutes,  leaving  his  card in a silver dish in the hall. I think he was the head of her depart-ment, calling dutifully on his younger colleagues.  &quot; There was a medal inscribed to Professor Niles under your handker-chiefs &quot;  John says.  &quot; He directed my master's thesis,  &quot;  his mother says.  &quot;  You  knew  that.  &quot;  (She is not going to say a thing about that medal, John concluded at once. I saw it, somewhere, long ago. The medal, but not the incription.) &quot;  It was all about terza rima - all very technical and probably dull. He was head of Romance Languages. A friend of your fa-ther's. A distinguished man - they were both distinguished men &quot;  Yes,  John  thinks,  and  that's  about  all  I  have  ever  really  gathered  from  her  about  my  father.  Distinction  .  Pre -eminence.  Did  he  and  she  also  lead  lives  that  never  quite  joined?  Then  neither  John  nor  his  mother  speaks  for  a  whi  le,  and  with  a  sudden  clarity  that  fills  him  with  longing  he  se  es  b  is  wife  in  their  house  far  away.  H  e  se  es  he  r  going  each  day  to  their  bookstore,  their  great  pride,  and,  ski  mmin  g  back  down  the  years,  he  se  es  he  r,  after  his  inheritance  had  come,  poring  over  newspapers,  finding  the  store  for  sale  at  a  bargain  price.  And  then  he  sees  the  girl  wh  o  would  be  his  wi  fe,  young  like  himself  when  they  began  to  live  together.  &quot;Your  father  was  a  very  private  person,&quot;  sa  ys  his  mother.  AFTER  college,  John  moved  still  farther  from  home.  He  went  to  [REDACTED],  with  total  confidence  in  his  future  and  no  notion  at  all  of  how  to  live  in  the  meantime.  He  found  a  scat-  tering  of  jobs-as  a  busboy,  as  an  usher  in  a  movie  theatre-and  a  small  room  in  a  clean  but  dreary  rooming  house  in  Murray  Hill.  It  was  there  that  he  con-  trived  to  meet  the  girl  named  Miriam  who  lived  on  the  floor  above  him.  She  was  also  new  in  the  city,  and  they  be-  gan  to  explore  it  together.  They  sought  out  all  possible  clich\xc3\xa9s.  Knowingly.  They  walked  on  bridges  at  dawn.  They  rode  back  and  forth  all  night  on  the  ferry.  They  talked  of  what  they  had  done  that  day,  and  then  about  the  subtle  designs  they  had  lately,  and  jointly,  found  in  life,  but  chiefly  about  each  other  and  themselves,  though  much  more  of  this  had  to  do  with  John than with  Miriam.  He  spoke  of  the  big  house  left  behind,  of  h  is  childhood  and  therefore  of  his  mother  (though  not  often  of  her  remoteness),  and  of  h  is  longings,  which,  to  h  is  delight  and  won-  der,  were  finding  words  at  last.  He  had  never  before  guessed  the  close  com  fort  of  such  talk.  And  s  o  it  was  with  h  appi-  ness  but  little  surpr  ise  that  in  a  short  w  hile  they  found  themselves  return  ing  on  most  nights  to  Miriam's  ro  om.  Once,  very  late,  whe  n  t  he  lovemak-  ing  was  over  and  they  were  lying  close,  hand  in  h  and  and  feeling  a  lig  ht,  shared  sadness  that  seemed  sometimes  to  come  on  them  at  such  moments,  John  said  that  he  had  lo  st  his  way,  had  somehow  lost  hi  mself.  He  said  that  he  felt  frag-  mented;  he  had  not  come  there  to  be  an  usher  o  r  a  bus  bo  y.  &quot;How  can  I  search  for  you  if  you've  fallen  apart?&quot;  Miriam  asked  him,  teas-  ing  him  a  little.  &quot;How  can  you  search  for  me  if  yo  u  don't  exist?&quot;  She  then  said,  in  deep  earnest,  that  love  was  a  search,  an  endless  seeking.  John  be-  lieved  that  he  had  read  as  much  at  some  time,  but  now  it  seemed  a  sample  of  fresh  and  invigorating  wis  dom.  And  eventually  Miriam  found  work  in  a  book-and-record  shop,  where  she  was  happy,  and  John  found  a  job  in  a  brokerage  house,  which  he  consid  e  red  unaes  thet  ic  but  which  paid  him  better  than  ushering  and  mad  e  it  possible  for  them  t  o  m  ove  to  a  two-room  walkup  beside  the  clatt  er  ing  Third  Avenue  E  l.  It  was  private  and  secure,  after  the  roomi  ng  house,  and  th  e  small  sadness  now  seldom  visited  them  in  the  late  hours.  N  the  porch,  the  swing  has  almost  stopped.  There  is  a  long  wait.  John's  mother  is  not  look-  ing  quite  as  old  as  a  while  before,  or  so  he  feels.  She  seems  to  change  with  her  inward  weather.  Or  with  his  own.  The  cracks  in  her  shoes  are  no  longer  visi-  ble.  Her  hands  appear  less  gnarled.  &quot;I  wish  Father  might  have  lived  longer,&quot;  John  says.  &quot;Well,  naturally,  so  do  I-so  did  I,&quot;  she  says  quietly.  &quot;I  mean  I  wish  I  had  got  to  know  him  better  than  one  could  at  four  or  five.  Grown  to-oh-love  him,  I  suppose.&quot;  &quot;I  see,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;But,  " b"for  that,  a  person  must  reach  out,  explore,  dis-  cover.  She  must-Ae  must-&quot;  She  stops  abruptly.  Reach  out,  explore,  discover,  John  thinks.  This  is  new.  She  seems  to  be  talking  about  Father  and  me-or  about  herself  and  Fa-  ther,  neither  of  which  seems  entirely  likely.  The  swing  is  mo-  tionless  now.  There  is  another  silence,  and  then,  sitting  erect,  she  speaks  rapidly,  vigor-  ously.  &quot;George  Niles  willed  me  that  medal.  He  knew  I  would  take  care  of  it.  His  wife  was  an  invalid  for  years.  Her  mind  wandered.  The  medal  was  for  his  contribution  to  Italian-  American  harmony.  I  think  the  award  was  the  high  point  of  his  life.  It  had  had  few  high  points  Up  to  then.&quot;  &quot;I  remember  him,&quot;  John  says.  &quot;He  supervised  my  thesis,&quot;  says  his  mother  stiffly,  ending  the  con-  versation.  &quot;Yes,  I  remember  Professor  Niles,&quot;  he  tells  himself.  &quot;And  now  I  also  recall  that  it  wasn't  only  at  three-forty-five  each  Sunday  that  I  saw  him.  One  sum-  mer,  Mother  and  I  went  to  acottage  Father  had  left  us.  I  was  sent  to  a  day  camp.  I  was  ten  years  old.  Once,  I  was  supposed  to  be  on  a  hike,  but  it  rained  and  the  hike  was  cancelled.  I  was  walk-  ing  home  when  Professor  Niles  drove  by  me,  coming  from  the  cottage.&quot;  Then,  on  an  afternoon  when  I  was  playing,  he  came  along  the  path  be-  tween  the  yard  and  the  woods.  He  gave  me  the  usual  licorice  drop  and  went  on  up  to  the  house-to  the  side  steps  that  today  need  shoring.  The  licorice  drop  always  seemed  a  signal  that  I  could  run  off  and  play,  now  that  I  had  shaken  hands,  fulfilling  my  social  duty.  Reach  out.  Search.  Discover.  All  our  days  together,  Miriam  and  I  have  done  that,  and  the  seeking  is  still  not  over.  It  will  end  only  when  both  of  us  have  ended.  But-whet  has  brought  Mother  here?  She  wasn't  speaking  of  reaching  out  to  Father  or  to  me.  Was  she  speak-  ing  of  herself  and  Niles,  I  wonder?  She  has  grown  to  seem  very  old  to  John  again.  She  is  staring  across  the  porch  and  along  the  street.  She  plucks  at  her  lower  lip,  as  she  has  done  con-  stantly  in  the  nursing  home.  And  then  she  nods  slowly,  though  whether  in  response  to  John's  question  or  in  answer  to  something  in  her  mind  or  memory  he  cannot  know.  Were  she  and  Niles  in  love,  John  asks  himself.  Is  that  why  she  has  come?  Does  she  want  it  known?  And  he  is  suddenly  touched  that  one  so  old,  so  nearly  gone,  should  care  to  have  a  love  so  long  past  come  to  light.  He  smiles,  but  his  throat  is  tight.  Still,  he  cannot  speak  to  her,  he  cannot  ask  her  the  questions  in  his  mind.  I  have  never  known  her,  though  I  would  have  said  Idid,  he  thinks.  We  have  never  known  each  other,  really,  or  sought  to,  though  clearly  I  am  searching  for  her  now.  There  is  no  one  alive  who  knows  that  she  loved-could  love-and  was  loved.  No  one  but  my-  self,  and  I  am  guessing.  It  is  because  of  Miriam  that  I  can  guess  it  now.  Moth-  er  has  come  for  something  she  had  with  Niles,  and  then  in  her  lonely  way  with  that  doll-and  now  I  am  all  shehas  left,  and  we  are  strangers.  His  mother  absently  fingers  the  gold  chain  that  hangs  from  her  neck.  The  medal,  John  thinks.  It  is  on  the  end  of  that  necklace.  It  is  also  upstairs  in  her  dresser  drawer,  chain  and  all.  Or  is  it?  Yes.  I  will  go  and  fetch  it  to  her.  _  Perhaps  it  can  speak  for  me.  And  then  maybe  she  can  go-or  I  can  let  her  go?  -in  peace.  Which  is  it?  He  walks  into  the  house  and  up  the  stairs.  He  opens  the  drawer  and  finds  the  medal.  He  carries  it  down  and  out  to  the  porch,  but  his  mother  is  not  there.  And  if  the  swing  were  not  still  moving  (after  her  rising?  with  the  light  breeze?  ),  he  could  not  be  sure  that  she  had  ever  been  there  at  all. "