 b"TODAY  we  make  the  leap  to  faith.  Today.  -Today?  -Today.  -We're  really  going  to  do  it?  At  last?  -Spent  too  much  time  fooling  around.  Today  we  do  it.  -I  don't  know.  Maybe  we're  not  ready?  -I  am  cheered  by  the  wine  of  pos-  sibility  and  the  growing  popularity  of  light.  Today's  the  day.  -You're  serious.  -Intensely.  First,  we  examine  our  consciences.  -I  am  a  double-minded  man.  Have  always  been  a  double-minded  man.  -Each  examining  his  own  con-  science,  rooting  out,  naming,  remem-  bering,  and  re\xc3\xa9xperiencing  every  last  little  cank  and  wrinkle.  Root  and  branch.  -Smiting  each  conscience  hip  and  thigh.  -Thigh  and  hip.  Smite!  Smite!  -God  is  good  and  we  are  but  poor  wretches  who  ...  -Wait.  -Poor  slovening  wretches  who  but  for  the  goodness  of  God  would  .  ..  -Wait.  This  will  be  painful,  you  know.  A  bit.  -Oh  my  God.  -What?  -I  just  thought  of  something.  -A  prick  of  conscience.  -Yes.  Item  34.  -What's  Item  34?  -An  unkindness.  -You  list  them  separately.  -Yes.  -You  don't  just  sort  of  throw  them  all  together  into  a  great  big  trash  bag  labelled-  -No.  I  sweat  each  one.  Seriatim.  -I  said  it  would  be  painful.  -Might  we  postpone  it?  -Meditate  instead  on  His  works?  Their  magnificence.  -Not  that  we  could  in  a  hundred  million  years  exhaust-  -It's  a  sort  of  if-a-bird-took-one-  grain-of-sand-and-flew-all-his-life-and-  then-another-bird-took-another-grain-  of-sand-and-flew-all-his-life  situation.  -Contemplate  only  the  animals.  Restrict  the  field.  Course  we  got  over  a  million  species,  so  far.  New  ones  being  identified  every  day.  Insects,  mostly.  -I  like  plants  better  than  animals.  -Animals  give  you  a  lot  of  warmth.  A  dog  would  be  an  example.  --I  like  people  better  than  plants,  plants  better  than  animals,  paintings  better  than  animals,  and  music  better  than  animals.  -P  raising  the  animals,  then,  would  not  be  your  first  impulse.  -I  respect  the  animals.  I  admire  the  animals.  But  could  we  contemplate  something  else?  -Take  a  glass  of  water,  for  ex-  ample.  A  glass  of  water  is  a  miraculous  thing.  -The  blue  of  the  sky,  against  which  we  find  the  shocking  green  of  the  leaves  of  the  trees.  -The  trees.  &quot;I  think  that  I  shall  never  see  slash  A  poem  lovely  as  a  tree.&quot;  -  &quot;A  tree  whose  hungry  mouth  is  pressed  slash  Against  the  earth's  sweet  flowing  breast.&quot;  -Why  &quot;mouth&quot;?  -Why  &quot;breast&quot;?  -The  working  of  thecreative  mind.  -An  unfathomable  mystery.  --Never  to  be  fathomed.  -I  wouldn't  even  want  to  fathom  it.  If  one  fathomed  it,  who  can  say  what  frightful  things  might  thereupon  be  fathomed?  -Fathoming  such  is  beyond  the  powers  of  poor  ravening  noodles  like  ourselves,  who  but  for  the-  -And  another  thing.  The  human  voice.  -My  God  you're  right.  The  hu-  man  voice.  -Bessie  Smith.  -Alice  Babs.  -Joan  Armatrading.  -Aretha  Franklin.  -Each  voice  testifying  to  the  great-  er  honor  and  glory  of  God,  each  in  its  own  way.  -Damn  straight.  -Sweet  Emma  Barrett  the  Bell  Gal.  -Got  you.  -&quot;Das  Lied  von  der  Erde.&quot;  -I  couldn't  agree  more.  -Then  there  are  the  bad  things.  Cancer.  -An  unfathomable  mystery,  at  this  point.  But  one  which  must  inevitably  succumb  to  the  inexorable  forward  march  of  scientific  progress.  -Economic  inequality.  -In  my  view,  this  will  be  amelior-  ated  in  the  near  future  by  the  pressure of  population  growth.  Pressure  of  pop-  ulation  growth  being  such  that  eco-  nomic  inequality  simply  cannot  endure.  -What  about  Z.P.G.?  -An  ideal  rather  than  a  social  slash  political  reality.  -So  God's  creatures,  in  your  opin-  ion,  multiplying  and  multiplying  ard  multiplying  as  per  instruction,  will-  -Propagate  fiercely  until  the  sum  total  of  what  has  been  propagated  yields  a  pressure  so  intense  that  every  feature  great  or  small  of  every  life  great  or  small  is  instantly  scrutinized  weighed  judged  decided  upon  and  dis-  posed  of  by  the  sum  total  of  one's  peers  in  doubtless  electronic  ongoing  all-see-  ing  everlasting  congress  assembled.  Thus  if  one  guy  has  a  little  advantage,  a  little  edge,  it  is  instantly  taken  away  from  him,  and  similarly  if  another  guy  has  a  little  lack,  some  little  lack,  this  little  lack  is  instantly  supplied,  by  the  arbiters.  Things  cannot  be  otherwise.  Because  there's  not  going  to  be  any  room  to  bloody  move,  man,  do  you  fol-  low  me?  'There's  not  going  to  be  any  room  to  bloody  smzeeze,  without  you're  sneezing  on  somebody.  ...  -This  is  the  Divine  plan?  --Who  can  know  the  subtle  work-  ings  of  His  mind?  But  it  seems  to  be  the  way  events  are-  -That's  another  thing.  The  human  mind.  -Good  God  yes.  The  human  mind.  -The  human  mind  which  is  in  my  judgment  the  finest  of  our  human  achievements.  -Much  the  finest.  I  can  think  of  nothing  remotely  comparable.  -Is  a  flower,  however  beautiful  and  interesting,  comparable  to  the  hu-  man  mind?  I  think  not.  -Matter  of  higher  and  lower  lev-  els  of  complexity.  -I  concur.  This  is  not  to  knock  the  flower.  -This  is  not  to  say  that  the  beauti-  ful,  interesting  flower  is  not,  in  its  own  terms,  entirely  fantastic.  -The  toast  of  the  earth.  Did  I  ever  tell  you  about  that  time  when  I  was  in  [REDACTED]  and  Cardinal  Spellman  came  to  see  us  at  Christmas  and  his  plane  was  preceded  by  another  plane  broad-  casting  sacred  music  over  the  terrain?  Spraying  the  terrain  as  it  were  with  sacred  music?  -So  that  those  on  earth  could  hear  and  be  edified.  -&quot;O  Little  Town  of  Bethlehem.&quot;  -Yes,  the  human  mind  deserves  the  greatest  respect.  Not  so  good  of  course  as  the  Divine  mind,  but  not  bad.  -Leibniz.  William  of  Ockham.  Maimonides.  The  [REDACTED]  Circle.  The  " b"Frankfurt  School.  Manichaeus.  Peirce.  Occasionalism,  A  pretty  array.  I  be-  lieve  occasionalism's  been  discredited.  But  let  it  stand.  It  was  a  nice  try,  and  philosophy,  as  my  teacher  taught  me  so  longlong  ago,  is  not  to  be  regarded  as  a  graveyard  of  dead  systems.  -The  question  of  suicide.  Self-  slaughter.  Maybe  we  ought  to  think  about  it?  -What's  to  think  about?  -Look  at  this.  -W  hat  is  it?  -The  bill.  -For  what  is  it  the  bill?  -A  try.  -W  hose?  -An  acquaintance.  -Good  God.  -Yes.  -Ought  two  slash  twenty-four  electrocardiogram  ought  two  ought  ought  ought  ought  one,  thirty-five  bucks.  -Ought  two  slash  twenty-four  car-  diopulmonary  two  ought  ought  ought  ought  ought  one,  forty  bucks.  -Ought  two  slash  twenty-four  in-  halation  therapy  one  four  ought  ought  ought  ought  one,  sixty  bucks.  -Ought  two  slash  twenty-four  room  fournine  one  five,  a  neat  one-  eighty.  -It  goes  on  for  miles.  -What's  the  total?  -Shade  under  two  thousand.  Nine-  teen  hundred  and  two  dollars  and  ninety  cents.  -You'd  think  they'd  give  you  the  ninety  cents.  -You'd  think  they  would.  -And  the  acquaintance?  -She's  well.  -This  being  an  example  of  the  leap  away  from  faith.  -Exactly.  You  can  jump  either  way.  --Shall  we  examine  our  consciences  now?  -You  are  mad  with  hurry.  -We  are  but  poor  lapsarian  fu-  tiles  whose  preen  glands  are  all  out  of  whack  and  who  but  for  the  grace  of  God's  goodness  would-  -Do  you  think  He  wants  usto  grovel  quite  so  much?  -I  don'tthink  He  gives  a  rap.  But  it's  traditional.  -We  hang  by  aslender  thread.  -The  fire  boils  below  us.  -The  pit.  Crawling  with  roaches  and  other  things.  -Tortures  unimaginable,  but  the  worst  the  torture  of  knowing  it  could  have  been  otherwise,  had  we  shaped  Up.  -Purity  of  heart  is  to  will  one  thing.  -No.  Here  I  differ  with  Kierke-  gaard.Purity  of  heart  is,  rather,  to  will  several  things  and  not  know  which  is  the  better,  truer  thing,  and  to  worry  about  this,  forever.  --A  continuing  itch  of  the  mind.  -Sometimes  assuageable  by  timely  masturbation.  -I  forgot.  Love.  -Oh  my  God,  yes.  Love.  Both  human  and  divine.  -Love,  the  highest  form  of  human  endeavor.  -Coming  or  going,  the  absolute  zenith.  -Is  it  permitted  to  differ  with  Kierkegaard?  -Not  only  permitted  but  necessary.  If  you  love  him.  -Love,  which  is  a  kind  of  permis-  sion  to  come  closer  than  ordinary  norms  of  good  behavior  might  usually  sanction.  Back  rubs.  _  -Which. enables  us  tosee  each  oth-  er  without  clothes  on,  for  example,  in  lust  and  shame.  -Examining  perfections,  imperfec-  tions.  -Which  allows  us  to  say  wounding  things  to  each  other  which  would  not     " b"be  kosher  under  the  ordinary  rules  of  civilized  discourse.  -Walkin'  my  baby  back  home.  -Love  which  allows  us  to  live  to-  gether  male  and  female  in  small  grub-  by  apartments  that  would  only  hold  one  sane  person,  normally.  -Misting  the  plants  together-the  handsome,  talented  plants.  -He  who  hath  not  love  is  a  sad  cookie.  -This  is  the  way,  walk  ye  in  it.  Isaiah  30:21.  -Can't  make  it,  man.  -What?  -I  can't  make  it.  -The  leap.  -Can't  make  it.  I  am  a  double-  minded  man.  -Well.  -An  incorrigibly  double-minded  man,  -What  then?  -Keep  on  trying?  -Yes,  We  must.  -T'ry  again  another  day?  -Yes.  Another  day  when  the  plaid  cactus  is  watered,  when  the  hare's-foot  fern  is  watered.  -Seeds  tingling  in  the  barrens  and  veldts.  -Garden  peas  yellow  or  green  wrinkling  or  rounding.  -Another  day  when  locust  wings  are  baled  for  shipment  to  [REDACTED],  where  folks  like  their  little  hit  of  locust-  wing  tea.  -A  jug  of  wine.  Then  another  jug.  -The  Brie-with-pepper  meeting  the  toasty  loaf.  -Another  day  when  some  eighty-  four-year-old  guy  complains  that  his  wife  no  longer  gives  him  presents.  --Small  boys  bumping  into  small  girls,  purposefully.  -Cute  little  babies  cracking  people  up.  -Another  day  when  somebody  finds  a  new  bone  that  proves  we  are  even  ancienter  than  we  thought  we  were.  -Gravediggers  working  in  the  cool  early  morning.  -A  walk  in  the  park.  -Another  day  when  the  singing  sunlight  turns  you  every  way  but  loose.  --When  you  accidentally  notice  the  sublime.  -Somersaults  and  duels.  -Another  day  when  you  see  a  woman  with  really  red  hair.  I  mean  really  red  hair.  -A  wedding  day.  -A  plain  day.  -O.K.?  -O.  K.  -O.K.?  -O.K. "