 b"IN  today's  fast-moving,  transient,  rootless  society,  where  people  meet  and  make  love  and  part  without  ever  really  touching,  the  relationship  every  guy  already  has  with  his  own  mother  is  too  valuable  to  ignore.  Here  is  a  grown,  experienced,  loving  wom-  an-one  you  do  not  have  to  go  to  a  party  or  a  singles  bar  to  meet,  one  you  do  not  have  to  go  to  great  lengths  to  get  to  know.  There  are  hundreds  of  times  when  you  and  your  mother  are  thrown  together  naturally,  without  the  tension  that  usually  accompanies  court-  ship-just  the  two  of  you,  alone.  All  you  need  is  a  little  presence  of  mind  to  take  advantage  of  these  situations.  Say  your  mom  is  driving  you  down-  town  in  the  car  to  buy  you  a  new  pair  of  slacks.  First,  find  a  nice  station  on  thecar  radio,  one  that  she  likes.  Get  into  the  pleasant  lull  of  freeway  driv-  ing-tires  humming  along  the  pave-  ment,  air-conditioner  on  max.  Then  turn  to  look  at  her  across  the  front  seat  and  say  something  like,  &quot;You  know,  you've  really  kept  your  shape,  Mom,  and  don't  think  I  haven't  noticed.&quot;  Or  suppose  she  comes  into  your  room  to  bring  you  some  clean  socks.  Take  her  by  the  wrist,  pull  her  close,  and  say,  &quot;Mom,  you're  the  most  fascinating  woman  I've  ever  met.&quot;  Probably  she'll  tell  you  to  cut  out  the  foolishness,  but  I  can  guar-  antee  you  one  thing:  she  will  never  tell  your  dad.  Possibly  she  would  find  it  hard  to  say,  &quot;Dear,  Piper  just  made  a  pass  at  me,&quot;  or  possibly  she  is  secretly  flattered,  but,  whatever  the  reason,  she  will  keep  it  to  herself  until  the  day  comes  when  she  is  no  longer  ashamed  to  tell  the  world  of  your  love.  Dating  your  mother  seriously  might  seem  difficult  at  first,  but  once  you  try  it  I'll  bet  you'll  be  surprised  at  how  easy  it  is.  Facing  up  to  your  intention  is  the  main  thing:  you  have  to  want  it  bad  enough.  One  problem  is  that  lots  of  people  get  hung  up  on  feelings  of  guilt  about  their  dad.  They  think,  Oh,  here's  this  kindly  old  guy  who  taught  me  how  to  hunt  and  whittle  and  dyna-  mite  fish-I  can't  let  him  go  on  into  his  twi-  light  years  alone.  Well,  there  are  two  reasons  you  can  dismiss  those     thoughts  from  your  mind.  First,  every  woman,  I  don't  care  who  she  is,  pre-  fers  her  son  to  her  husband.  That  is  a  simple  fact;  ask  any  woman  who  has  a  son,  and  she'll  admit  it.  And  why  shouldn't  she  prefer  someone  who  is  so  much  like  herself,  who  represents  nine  months  of  special  concern  and  love  and  intense  physical  closeness  someone  whom  she  actually  created?  As  more  women  begin  to  express  the  need  to  have  something  all  their  own  in  the  world,  more  women  are  going  to  start  being  honest  about  this  pref-  erence.  When  you  and  your  mom  be-  gin  going  together,  you  will  simply  become  part  of  a  natural  and  inevitable  historical  trend.  Second,  you  must  remember  this  about  your  dad:  you  have  your  mother,  he  has  his!  Let  him  go  put  the  moves  on  his  own  mother  and  stop  messing  with  yours.  If  his  mother  is  dead  or  too  old  to  be  much  fun  anymore,  that's  not  your  fault,  is  it?  It's  not  your  fault  that  he  didn't  realize  his  mom  for  the  woman  she  was,  before  it  was  too  late.  Probably  he's  going  to  try  a  lot  of  emo-  tional  blackmail  on  you  just  because  you  had  a  good  idea  and  he  never  did.  Don't  buy  it.  Comfort  yourself  with  the  thought  that  your  dad  belongs  to  the  last  generation  of  guys  who  will  let  their  moms  slip  away  from  them  like  that.  Once  your  dad  is  out  of  the  pic-  ture-once  he  has  taken  up  fly-tying,  joined  the  Single  Again  Club,  moved  to  [REDACTED],  whatever-and  your  mom  has  been  wooed  and  won,  if  you're  anything  like  me  you're  going  to  start  having  so  much  fun  that  the  good  times  you  had  with  your  mother  when  you  were  little  will  seem  tame  by  comparison.  For  a  while,  Mom  and  I  went  along  living  a  contented,  quiet  life,  just  happy  to  be  with  each  other.  But  after  several  months  we  started  get-  ting  into  some  different  things,  like  the  big  motorized  stroller.  The  thrill  I  felt  the  first  time  Mom  steered  me  down  the  street!  On  the  tray,  in  ad-  dition  to  my  Big  Jim  doll  and  the  wire  with  the  colored  wooden  beads,  I  have  my  desk  blotter,  my  typewriter,  an  in-out  basket,  and  my  name  plate.  I  get  a  lot  of  work  done,  plus  I  get  a  great  chance  to  people-watch.  Then  there's  my  big,  adult-sized  highchair,  where  I  sit  in  the  evening  as  Mom  and  I  watch  the  news  and  discuss  cur-  rent  events,  while  I  paddle  in  my  food  and  throw  my  dishes  on  the  floor.  When  Mom  reaches  to  wipe  off  my  chin  and  I  take  her  hand,  and  we  fall  to  the  floor  in  a  heap-me,  Mom,  highchair,  and  all-well,  those  arethe  best  times,  those  are  the  very  best  times.  It  is  true  that  occasionally  I  find  my-  self  longing  for  even  more-for  things  I  know  I  cannot  have,  like  the  feel  of  a  firm,  strong,  gentle  hand  at  the  small  of  my  back  lifting  me  out  of  bed  into  the  air,  or  someone  who  could  walk  me  around  and  burp  me  after  I've  watched  all  the  bowl  games  and  had  about  nine  beers.  Ideally,  I  would  like  a  mom  about  nineteen  or  twenty  feet  tall,  and  although  I  considered  for  a  while  asking  my  mom  to  start  working  out  with  weights  and  drinking  Nutra-  ment,  I  finally  figured,  Why  put  her  through  it?  After  all,  she  is  not  only  my  woman,  she  is  my  best  friend.  I  have  to  take  her  as  she  is,  and  the  way  she  isis  plenty  good  enough  for  me.  "