 b"MY  grandfather  shuttled  be- tween  my  parents'  home  and  thatof  his  married  daughter,  my  Aunt  Jo,  from  at  least  the  time  I  was  three.  His  early  dependence  upon  his  children  never  seemed  odd  to  me,  since  it  was  agiven  in  my  life.  I  re-  member  him  as  asmall-boned,  gentle,  and  uncomplaining  old  man  whose  long  nose  always  dripped-doubtless  from  a  sinus  condition  I  was  destined  to  inherit,  I  liked  him  for  the  stories  he  used  to  tell  of  his  boyhood  on  a  ranch  and  his  ability  to  prepare  meals,  when  my  parents  were  away,  in  such  a  manner  that  there  were  never  many  dishes  for  my  brother  and  me  to  wash.  He  died,  of  cancer,  in  my  parents'  house,  after  I  had  become  a  teacher  who  wanted  to  write;  my  mother  and  Aunt  Jo  nursed  him  in  his  last  months.  My  father  always  accepted  my  grand-  father's  presence  but  appeared  to  have  little  in  common  with  him.  Six  years  ago,  my  father  died,  also  of  cancer.  At  the  moment  of  his  death  my  grand-  father's  unmarried  daughter,  my  Aunt  May,  cried  out  in  surprise  at  a  sudden  resemblance  between  my  father  and  my  grandfather,  those  disparate  men.  This  past  summer,  Aunt  Jo  told  me  something  about  my  grandfather's  life  that  reveals  something  about  my  fa-  ther's.  The  story  I  want  to  tell  is  theirs  and  mine.  THROUGHOUT  his  life,  my  fa-  ther  searched  vainly  for  whatever  it  was  that  would  constitute  his  &quot;brack-  et.&quot;  I  never  heard  him  attempt  to  de-  fine  that  bracket;  perhaps  he  felt  any  effort  to  do  so  would  constrict  or  de-  stroy  it.  I  know  the  difficulty,  having  sensed  it  frequently  myself,  so  let  me  state  it  in  terms  that  I  understand.  One  likes  the  idea,  say,  of  hew%k,  and  would  aspire  to  it:  the  high  free-  dom,  the  swift  and  effortless  flight,  the  sharpness  of  eye,the  vertical  dive.  For  example,  on  a  sunny  day  last  spring,  my  wife  and  I,  after  planting  our  garden,  lay  on  our  backs  in  the  grass,  enjoying  the  warmth  of  the  damp  soil  and  the  movement  of  a  hawk  far  above  us  as  it  banked  and  climbed  in  the  updraft.  It  became  a  dark  point,  a  mote  swimming  with  the  others  in  the  pools  of  our  sun-blinded  vision,  and  then  it  plunged.  As  it  fell  (for  a  moment  I  thought  we  were  its  prey),  crows,  those  keen-sighted  but  heavier  birds,  slowly  rose  from  various  positions  along  the  border  of  the  woods  thathalf  encircled  the  horizon.  The  hawk  was  the  tip  of  a  diminishing  stamen,  the  crows  the  end  points  of  petals  folding  back  upon  the  pistil.  Hawk  and  crows  composed  a  blossom  so  exquisite  and  inevitable  in  its  move-  ment  toward  enclosure  thatI  felt  the  ache  to  be  stamen  or  petal  or-most  crucial  of  all-seed  of  that  pistil.  But  who  in  his  normal  mind  would  want  to  be  hawk  settling  down  with  talons  out-  spread  to  rake  a  tiny  mouse,  to  be  bird  of  carrion  after  a  bit  of  pink  intestine?  In  a  typically  American  way,  my  father  confused  a  desired  and  idealized  state  with  reality  itself;  and  so  he  was  perpetually  disappointed.  In  the  years  of  my  childhood,  he  held  any  number  of  responsible  and  well-paying  jobs,  re-  nouncing  each  of  them  as  soon  as  he  had  achieved  what  in  the  academic  pro-  fession  we  refer  toas  tenure-the  mo-  ment  that  assures  job  security  and  clear-  ly  defined  expectations  until  a  scheduled  retirement  day.  He  became  the  hawk  only  to  the  degree  that  his  motion  was  a  dive  from  the  rarefied  air  all  the  way  toa  pebble  on  the  ground,  followed  by  a  laborious  climb.  In  my  opinion,  the  ma-  jor  pattern  of  his  life  forms  the  letter  &quot;V,&quot;  even  though  the  ascendant  line  wobbles  here  and  there  or  drops  like  a  graph  depicting  some  corporation's  uneven  growth  in  sales  or  net  worth.  His  plunge  began  in  the  middle  of  the  Depression,  at  that  dark  period  of  it  when  he  lost  the  freedom  to  move  from  position  to  position.  He  de-  serted  the  family  he  loved  (I  would  not  have  felt  the  extent  of  betrayal  I  did  had  henot  obviously  loved  me,  my  brother,  and  our  mother);  asked  for  and  received  a  divorce;  and  undertook  a  second,  wholly  unsuccessful,  mar-  riage.  He  ended  up  alone,  and  boxed  in  by  debts.  With  everything  lost,  he  gained  in  a  tiny  room  or  cell  for  in-  digent  transients  the  freedom  to  hope  for  it  all  back,  bit  by  bit.  And  so  he  and  my  mother  were  remarried,  Slowly  he  paid  all  his  debts.  Advancing  to  better  and  yet  better   jobs,  he  saved  enough  money  and  established  sufficient  credit  to  buy  an  automobile  agency  near  [REDACTED].  But  he  had  been  easily  deceived  by  the  seller-the  manufacturer  went  out  of  business  shortly.  His  new  debts  were  huge  enough  that  his  lawyer  and  even  some  of  his  major  creditors  advised  him  to  declare  bankruptcy,  but  he  refused.  To  do  so,  he  said,  would  hurt  his  good  name  and  make  it  difficult  for  him  to  start  another  business.  He  was  well  into  his  sixties  at  the  time;  he  was  nearly  seventy  when  he  paid  the  last  dollar  he  owed.  Just  before  the  onset  of  his  ter-  minal  illness,  he  was  accumulating  capi-  tal  to  quit  the  reference-book  business-  he  sold  the  books  on  commission  to  libraries-and  become  a  consultant  for  small  firms  in  financial  disarray.  NOT  many  years  before  his  death,  my  mother  told  me  that  my  fa-  ther  felt  I  had  never  forgiven  him  and  that  she  hoped  he  was  wrong.  His  feel-  ing  surprised  me,  and  so  did  her  un-  certainty;  I  would  have  despised  my-  self  for  being  self-righteous,  a  moral  prig,  had  I  not  long  since  thought  I  had  forgiven  him.  And  yet  so  much  of  my  life  had  been  and  continued  to  be  an  attempt  to  persuade  myself  of  my  difference  from  him!  In  the  back  of  my  mind  existed  a  kind  of  clock  marking  two  or  more  times,  somewhat  similar  to  the  watches  worn  by  travel-  lers  who  habitually  cross  oceans  or  con-  tinents.  Regularly  I  had  checked  the  present  moment  of  my  life  against  that  of  my  father  at  my  age.  I  congratu-  lated  myself  as  each  of  my  children  reached  and  then  passed  the  age  I  had  been  when  my  father  deserted  his  fam-  ily.  His  rootlessness  had  made  per-  manence  itself  a  value  to  me;  on  sev-  eral  occasions,  I  refusedoutright  and  perhaps  rudely  to  be  considered  for  other  teaching  positions,  at  higher  sal-  aries.  I  had  become  inflexible  and  un-  generous  in  certain  of  my  judgments.  Whenever  a  husband  and  wife  of  my  acquaintance  separated  in  their  mid-  dle  years,  I  blamed  the  man  and  some-  times  had  difficulty  speaking  pleasantly  to  him;  and  because  my  mother  had,  of  necessity,  become  a  maid  after  my  father  deserted  us,  I  disapproved  of  friends  who  hired  maids  as  soon  as  they  could  afford  that  indulgence.  Living  in  a  large  house  I  loved,  one  cluttered  with  the  accumulation  of  the  years  and  surrounded  by  farmlands  and  woods  that  belonged  to  my  wife  and  me,  I  had  spoken  severely  to  my  growing  children  of  the  danger  of  mistaking  the  quest  afterpossession  or  position  for  the  quest  after  happiness.  And  of  course  " b"I  hoped  that  none  of  my  children  would  seeka  career  in  business.  Such  memories  and  feelings  were  much  in  mind  during  the  long  period  of  my  father's  illness-particularly  on  the  occasions  I  drove  alone  from  Ithaca  to  [REDACTED]  to  see  my  parents.  The  day  after  his  second  operation,  six  months  before  he  was  to  die,  I  went  to  the  office  of  the  surgeon  who  had  per-  formed  the  operation  and  learned  that  the  surgery  had  not  slowed  the  growth  of  the  malignancy.  My  father  would  experience  a  brief  interval  of  returning  health  because  of  the  removal  of  a  blockage,  but  we  shouldnot  be  misled  by  that.  Since  he  would  require  medi-  cation  and  nursing,  the  surgeon  was  willing  tosign  the  paper  necessary  to  admit  him  to  a  nursing  home  under  the  provisions  of  Medicare.  The  decision  to  have  him  admitted  must  be  made  im-  mediately;  if  he  were  to  be  taken  home  for  that  brief  period  of  seeming  good  health  and  then  required  the  care  of  a  nursing  home,  he  would  be  denied  all  financial  benefits.  And  what  if  he  lin-  gered  on  for  many  months?  People  like  my  father-those  with  a  strong  will  to  live-sometimes  did  that.  I  saidin  anger  that  the  Medicare  legislation  was  cruel  and  unjust,  ap-  parently  designed  to  push  the  elderly  sick  in  our  society  out  of  sight  as  quick-  ly  as  possible.  The  surgeon  replied,  kindly  enough,  that  his  job  was  to  save  or  prolong  lives  and  that  the  quality  of  the  lives  saved  or  prolonged  lay  in  hands  other  than  his  own.  He  simply  wished  to  stress  that  nursing-home  care  cost  as  much  as  fifty  dollars  a  day,  a  sum  beyond  the  means  of  many;  that  around-the-clock  nursing  care,  which  my  father  would  ultimately  need  if  we  kept  him  at  home,  was  much  more  expensive  than  that;  and  that  my  mother's  size  (she  was  less  than  five  feet  tall  and  weighed  ninety  pounds)  as  well  as  her  age  (she  was  in  her  eighties)  obviously  limited  our  choices.  He  believed  that  my  mother  and  I  should  be  as  rational  and  objective  as  possible  in  making  our  decision.  The  surgeon's  office  was  three  blocks  from  my  parents'  home.  What  I  had  just  heard  had  altered  my  relationship  with  my  father,  in  a  way  I  could  not  yet  consider.  My  mother  would  be  sitting  in  the  kitchen,  waiting  for  my  return  with  the  news.  Though  her  religious  beliefs  had  been  partially  un-  dermined  as  she  grew  old  (&quot;If  there  were  a  Heaven,&quot;  she  had  said  only  half  facetiously  to  me  after  the  first  moon  landing,  &quot;those  astronauts  would  have  seen  it&quot;),  I  knew  she  would  be  praying.  I  walked  several  blocks  in  the  wrong  direction  before  resolving  not  to  bea  coward.  I  would  tell  her  calmly  and  accurately  everything  the  surgeon  had  said.  But  when  I  actually  saw  her  at  the  kitchen  table,  I  burst  into  tears,  and  that  was  how  she  discovered  the  truth.  She  was  the  calm  one.  When  Itold  her  what  the  surgeon  had  said  about  the  nursing  home,  she  said,  &quot;But  I  want  him  here,  Jim.&quot;  She  said  it  both  as  if  it  were  the  most  important  wish  of  her  life  and  as  if-like  so  many  of  her  wishes,  many  years  earlier-there  " b"were  no  chance  of  its  being  granted  her.  A  sentence  from  an  otherwise  for-  gotten  book  came  into  my  mind:  Memory  is  what  we  now  have  in  place  of  religion.  At  once  I  felt  a  happiness  of  a  kind  and  intensity  I  had  never  experienced;  for  an  intervalI  believed  myself  in  possession  of  a  truth  beyond  corruption.  I  remembered  an  uncle-the  hus-  band  of  my  mother's  sister-rising  from  a  chair,  throwing  down  a  fistful  of  cards  on  a  table,  and  shouting  at  my  brother  and  me,  &quot;You'll  grow  up  worthless  as  your  father!&quot;  Because  we  were  as  destitute  as  my  absent  father,  because,  too,  we  had  arrived  with  our  luggage  at  his  door  without  asking  if  we  might,  my  uncle  the  previous  month  had  admitted  my  mother  and  brother  and  me  into  his  home,  even  though  his  income  in  those  bleak  days  was  insufficient  to  support  his  own  family.  Wanting  to  be  kind,  desiring  (perhaps  desperately)  not  to  be  resent-  The  old  quarrymen  remember  best  their  round  dinner  pails,  how  their  women  treated  them  on  the  job.  At  the  bottom  was  a  well  for  tea,  over  that  a  section  for  soup,  then  a  place  for  sandwiches,  and  on  top  room  for  a  large  pie.  Set  the  pail  over  a  fire  and  the  tea  warmed  your  whole  meal.  [REDACTED]  is  pinnedby  silver  slivers  of  glass  and  steel.  No  one  calls  for  granite.  Over  the  island,  deep  in  timothy  and  bay  bush,  the  quarry  rails  meander  to  the  wharf.  The  stones  appear  fleshy.  Feldspars,  the  sorrel  flecks  they  call  &quot;horses  in  the  granite&quot;  catch  your  eye.  Kennedy's  memorial  has  them,  A  summer  rainstorm  and  the  stone  ful,  he  had  invited  my  brother  and  me  to  playa  simple  form  of  bridge  with  himand  one  of  his  daughters;  he  had  been  anticipating  victory  when  the  game  neared  its  end,  butwith  anun-  expected  card  my  brother  had  won  for  us.  Later,  my  uncle  accepted  and  loved  me  like  a  son.  I  had  suppressed  the  in-  cident.  Such  painful  details  from  my  past,  all  of  them  rising  from  buried  griev-  ances,  humiliations,  and  victimizations  for  which  I  hadblamed  my  father,  now  became  available  to  me.  Even  while  I  understood  my  mother's  resig-  nation-in  my  adolescent  dreams  my  father's  desertion  had  become  a  barrier  of  cold  but  once  molten  material,  a  jagged  and  dark  boulder  that  cut  our  hands  as  my  mother  and  I  tried  to  get  around  it-I  understood  my  fa-  ther's  continuing  need  of  illusions.  I  knew  that  from  the  beginning  of  his  illness  he  had  refused  to  acknowledge  its  nature;  I  knew  that  his  expectation  would  be  to  come  home,  where,  as  he  mended,  he  could  make  plans  for  his  consulting  business  and  discuss  them  with  my  mother;  I  knew  that  to  com-  mit  him  to  a  nursing  home  at  this  point  of  momentarily  returning  health  would  be  to  betray  him  as  surely  as  he  had  betrayed  his  family.  Memory-which  works  through  connections,  and  which  possibly  may  depend  for  its  psychic  en-  ergy  upon  its  own  faint  memory  of  a  union  far  greater  than  it  can  ever  achieve-made  me  see  that  analogy.  Memory  also  made  me  see  that  rough  " b"boulder  of  my  dreams  as  the  unjust  and  immovable  obstruction  before  my  father.  And  memory,  which  gives  us  our  identities,  can,  by  an  act  of  grace,  release  us  from  ourselves  through  an  outpouring  of  its  most  hidden  contents.  To  remember  my  uncle's  phrase  was  to  take  back  my  father.  My  past  flood-  ed  out,  into  him,  and  was  transformed;  and  so  I  was  happy.  Still  standing  before  my  mother  in  the  kitchen,  I  knew  I  would  do  any-  thing  in  my  power  to  put  my  parents  in  each  other's  arms  again. &quot;Of  course  he  must  come  home,  Mother,&quot;  I  said.  It  turned  out  thatthere  was  very  little  I  needed  to  do;  both  the  surgeon  and  I  had  underestimated  my  parents'  wills,  My  mother,  with  some  assistance  at  first,  gave  my  father  all  the  care  he  needed.  While  he  was  regaining  the  strength  to  lift  his  pigskin  satchel  of  reference  books,  he  arranged  a  little  office  in  the  corner  of  his  bedroom  and  had  a  telephone  installed  there.  He  sat  before  his  card  table,  writing  up  a  vita  sheet  and  designing  a  letter-  head  and  a  business  card  for  his  con-  sulting  service,  and  acting  as  a  volun-  teer  telephone  counsellor  for  young  people  with  drug  and  other  problems:  he  liked  to  hear  the  telephone  ring.  He  soon  was  able  to  drive  his  car  again;  the  day  before  his  death  hetook  my  mother  grocery  shopping.  'The  only  thing  I  did  for  him  was  to  build  a  gate  to  protect  his  car.  I  had  visited  him  in  the  hospital  the  day  I  was  to  return  to  Ithaca,  to  say  goodbye  and  to  find  out  if  there  was  anything  he'd  like  me  to  do  before  I  left.  &quot;I've  been  lying  here  thinking  of  those  damned  cats  cater-  wauling  and  coupling  on  the  hood  of  the  Chrysler,  and  it's  driving  me  nuts,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  know  that  lean-  to  or  so-called  carport  where  I  keep  it?  Three  sides  are  snug,  but  the  cats  get  in  at  the  front.  What  I'd  really  appreciate  is  a  catproof  gate,  one  made  of  chicken  wire.&quot;  ITH  my  father  when  he  died  were  my  mother;  his  younger  sister,  my  Aunt  May;  and  my  wife  and  I.  He  died  on  his  seventy-fourth  birthday;  because  he  enjoyed  listening  to  classical  music,  my  wife  and  I  had  brought  a  box  containing  an  FM  radio  which  he  never  had  time  to  open.  As  I  sat  on  the  edge  of  his  bed,  he  asked  me  what  good  books  I  had  been  read-  ing  lately.  The  question  touched  me,  for  it  seemed  to  indicate  that  some  barrier  between  us  had  dropped.  Though  he  had  always  liked  to  read,  he  had  shied  away  from  literary  con-  versation  with  me,  as  if  he  were  afraid  I  might  ridicule  his  tastes.  I  gave  him  some  titles,  and  talked  about  two  or  three  I  thought  he  might  want  to  read.  He  listened  attentively.  Then  he  gave  me  the  titles  of  the  books  he  had  been  reading  or  re-reading;  one  of  them,  he  said,  was  a  sort  of  sequel  or  followup  to  &quot;The  Robe.&quot;  He  asked  me  which  of  those  books  I  liked.  Itold  him  all  of  them,  but  he  knew  me  better  than  that.  &quot;I  never  could  understand  why  you  didn't  like  Lloyd  C.  Douglas  better  than  you  do,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I've  been  go-  ing  through  that  one  again&quot;-and  he  pointed  to  the  sequel,  which  lay  on  top  of  some  other  books  on  the  nightstand  I  had  made  in  junior  high  school-  ruk  &quot;marking  passages  I  think  are  really  just  fine.  Look  at  some  of  them  and  tell  me  if  I'm  wrong.&quot;  I  was  reaching  for  the  book  when  he  began  coughing  up  blood.  He  tried  to  hide  the  fact,  smiling  almost  shyly  and  holding  his  hand  to  his  mouth  as  if  to  conceal  the  smile;  and  I  tried  to  look  at  several  of  the  passages  he  had  un-  derlined,  so  he  wouldn't  know  I  knew.  They  weren't  religious  or  inspirational  at  all,  but  then  my  father  had  never  been  particularly  religious.  I  couldn't  make  much  sense  out  of  the  passages.  The  one  I  looked  at  most  closely  seemed  to  bea  matter-of-fact  statement  about  getting  on  with  life.  He  began  coughing  more  violently;  the  blood  came  up  in  thick  strands.  &quot;'Talk  to  me  about  this  passage,  Pop,&quot;  I  said,  but  put  the  book  down  and  began  to  stroke  his  forehead.  My  wife  came  into  the  room.  She  cradled  her  arm  around  him,  lifting  him  so  that  he  could  breathe  and  holding  a  dish  to  his  lips  My  mother  telephoned  for  an  ambulance.  There  was  uncertainty  at  the  hospital  as  to  who  the  patient  was;  my  mother  said  in  a  low  voice,  &quot;My  husband.  You  know,  Dr.  Burmeister's  cancer  patient.&quot;  My  father  heard  her  and  cried,  &quot;I  don't  have  cancer!&quot;-his  last  words.  He  had  ceased  coughing;  my  wife  plumped  up  his  pillow  and  lowered  his  head  onto  it.  My  mother  said  clearly,  &quot;I  love  you,  Clayton;&quot;  my  Aunt  May  said,  &quot;I  love  you,  Clayt;&quot;  and  my  wife  and  I  said  sep-  arately,  &quot;I  love  you,  Pop.&quot;  He  heard  us,  for  he  smiled  again  and  tried  to  speak  but  could  not.  It  was  at  the  in-  stant  of  his  death  that  my  aunt,  as  I  " b"have  said,  cried  out  in  surprise,  &quot;Why,  how  much  like  Dad  he  looks!&quot;  HILE  in  [REDACTED]  this  past  Au-  gust,  on  a  trip  my  wife  and  I  had  made  to  see  her  own  ailing  father,  in  Naples,  we  visited  my  Aunt  Jo  and  her  husband  in  St.  Petersburg.  I  was  curious  about  my  grandfather,  and  asked  Aunt  Jo  some  questions.  At  first  she  was  reluctant  but  then  became  ea-  ger  totalk  about  him.  She  said  that  he  and  his  two  older  brothers  had  inherit,  ed  a  large  sum  of  money  when  their  parents'  ranch  was  sold.  My  aunt  had  heard  that  the  brothers,  who  were  more  adept  at  physical  tasks  than  her  father,  had  teased  him  with  any  num-  ber  of  cruel  practical  jokes.  They  stayed  in  the  West,  but  as  soon  as  her  father  got  his  share  of  the  money  he  came  East,  where  he  married  and  set  himself  up  in  the  cigar-making  business.  &quot;Oh,  I  used  to  resent  him  so,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;He  was  trusting  enough  to  be  a  child-  his  partner  cheated  him,  ran  off  with  all  the  tobacco  stock,  cleaned  the  shelves  and  the  till,  and  what  did  Dad  do  but  take  the  money  left  him  and  set  up  a  loan  agency  in  the  [REDACTED]  Arcade  until  hesimply  gave  eway  every  cent  he  had!  Then  Mother  died  and  Dad  sent  May  and  me  off  in      SORREL,  ANP  BURpocK  the  winter  on  the  train  to  relatives  in  [REDACTED];  we  were  wearing  all  the  clothes  we  had-summer  dresses.  Clayton  was  older  and  stayed  with  him  until  he  got  through  school,  found  a  job,  and  married.  When  May  and  I  were  just  out  of  secretarial  school,  living  together  and  each  mak-  ing  six  orseven  dollars  a  week,  Dad  moved  in  with  us.  He  was  going  to  get  a  job,  he  said.  But  he  had  some  high  and  mighty  ideas  of  the  sort  of  job  a  rancher's  son  and  former  owner  of  two  businesses  ought  to  have-your  everyday  factory  job  wouldn't  do.  So  he'd  be  sitting  at  home  in  the  evening  when  we  came  in  with  the  bag  of  groceries.  He  would  go  through  the  bag.  'That's  the  wrong  kind  of  bread,&quot;  he  would  say.  Or  'You  shouldn't  have  bought  this  pork,  the  bone's  too  big.  Do  you  know  the  moment  I  think  he  crumpled  up  for  good?  When  I  brought  home  a  slab  of  butter,  the  kind  the  grocer  weighed  after  scoop-  ing  it  from  the  barrel.  He  said,  'Jo,  you  shouldn't  have  bought  so  much,  it'll  turn  rancid.&quot;  I  picked  it  upand  squeezed  it  between  my  fingers  and  held  it  under  his  nose  and  said,  'Dad,  I  bought  this  butter  with  my  own  hard-earned  money,  and  I'll  buy  twice  as  much  next  time  if  I  want  to!&quot;  From  that  moment  on  and  for  the  rest  of  his  life,  he  never  complained  or  asked  for  a  thing.  He  just  gave  up  pretending  he  was  in  control.  The  poor  dear  was  ineffectual,  a  dreamer,  that's  all  I  can  say.  I  don't  think  peo-  ple  can  help  being  what  they  are,  do  you?&quot;  She  wanted  my  response;  and  soI  said  I  thought  some  people  try  harder  than  others  to  get  beyond  what  they're  born  with.  She  said  that  I  was  per-  fectly  right,  as  if  my  remark  were  simply  a  confirmation  of  her  view.  I  could  understand  how  such  a  belief  would  be  a  help,  especially  in  our  later  years:  it  makes  us  more  tolerant  of  each  other  and  less  harsh  with  our-  selves.  And  of  course  I  was  remem-  bering  my  Aunt  May's  cry  as  my  father  died;  and  thinking  of  how  much  his  two  sisters  as  well  as  his  son  carried  on  in  our  bones  the  resem-  blance  that  had  startled  her.  It  made  me  feel  kindly  toward  Aunt  Jo,  and  indulgent  toward  myself,  to  see  her  broad  forehead,  her  long  nose,  and  her  eyes  that  were  a  bit  too  large  for  her  face.  I  remembered  the  strength  of  my  happiness  when  at  last  I  had  forgiven  my  father.  Surely  in  that  happiness  I  had  come  close  to  whatever  my  father,  without  defining  it,  had  always  wanted  from  this  world,  and  maybe  what  my  grandfather  had  wanted,  too.  Such  an  instant  may  be  the  most  important  one  of  a  lifetime,  but  it  becomes  in  the  following  instant  only  the  memory  of  a  feeling,  of  a  transient  psychical  state:  a  memory  of  how  a  long  sequence  of  memories  had  coalesced  to  achieve,  without  any  act  of  will,  the  transub-  stantiation  of  self  into  other.  A  recol-  lection  of  this  kind  makes  a  pretty  slen-  der  argument  to  oppose  to  the  belief  (with  its  firmer  supporting  evidence)  that  all  of  usare  caught  from  the  start.  Still,  I  didn't  want  to  agree  wholly  with  Aunt  Jo,  at  least  not  yet,  and  soI  told  her,  Well,  yes  and  no;  that  is,  I  think  you're  as  right  as  I  think  you're  wrong-the  response  that  all  professors  experienced  in  the  art  of  fudging  can  make  in  such  a  judicious  manner  that  they  appear  to  possess  a  more  comprehensive  insight  into  the  problem  than  does  the  student  who  raised  the  difficult  question. "