 b"MY  father's  father  used  his  full  name-Harvey  Forbes  Frank-  lin-whenever  possible,  and  it  seemed  to  suit  him.  He  was  tall  and  thin  and  straight,  with  a  swooping  mus-  tache.  He  and  my  grandmother  lived  in  a  suburban  town  in  New  Jersey,  and  when  I  was  ten  I  was  invited  to  visit  them  for  a  week.  The  afternoon  I  arrived  from  Hart-  ford,  where  I  lived,  Grandpa  met  me  at  the  train.  After  he  kissed  me,  he  said,  &quot;Janie,  I  thought  we  might  start  out  with  Radio  City  Music  Hall-how  would  you  like  that?,&quot;  and  we  went  straight  there.  We  sat  far  up  in  the  balcony  so  he  could  smoke  his  pipe,  and  we  saw  &quot;'The  Spirit  of  St.  Louis,&quot;  star-  ring  Jimmy  Stewart,  and  a  stage  show  called  &quot;Glamour  and  Rhythm.&quot;  The  Rockettes'  ballet  number  was  the  most  beautiful  thing  I'd  ever  seen,  and  the  finale,  with  the  line  oflegs  opening  and  closing  like  Walt  Disney's  speeded-  up  flowers,  was  glorious.  I  think  Grandpa  thought  so,  too,  because  he  sat  forward  in  his  seat.  During  &quot;The  Spirit  of  St.  Louis,&quot;  he  had  dozed  off.  Afterward,  we  went  to  a  red-plush  restaurant  called  something  like  Louis  XIV.  My  grandmother  joined  us  for  dinner.  That  night,  she  was  wearing  minks  slung  in  a  ring  around  her  shoul-  ders-eight  tiny  heads  with  dark  gleaming  eyes  and  menacing  little  jaws  gripping  eight  tiny  tails  My  grand-  mother  wore  makeup,  which  neither  my  mother  nor  my  other  grandmother  did,  and  she  smelled  delicious-of  per-  fume  and  cigarettes.  Her  fingernails  were  painted  with  glossy  red  polish,  and  on  one  wrist  she  wore  a  heavy  gold-link  bracelet,  from  which  gold  charms  with  the  names  and  birth  dates  of  her  children  and  grandchildren  dan-  gled.  She  had  a  deep,  throaty  voice,  often  hoarse  from  smoking,  and  her  thick  gray  hair  was  swept  up  in  a  chi-  gnon.  Her  name  was  Dorothea,  but  we  called  her  Dede-my  grandfather's  nickname  for  her.  Grandpa  was  the  second  most  ele-  gant  person  I  knew.  Dede  was  the  first,  He  wore  a  watch  chain  across  his  chest  and  a  carved  carnelian  ring  on  his  right  pinkie,  which,  like  his  other  fingers,  was  bent  from  arthritis.  The  arthritis  had  forced  him  to  give  up  his  career  as  an  optician  when  he  was  still  relatively  young,  but  he  never  seemed  to  mind  being  retired.  He  spent  the  mornings  playing  tennis  at  his  club  and the  afternoons  playing  bridge,  and  ev-  ery  Tuesday  he  drove  from  New  Jer-  sey  into  New  York.  He  made  it  clear  that  what  he  did  there  was  nobody's  business  but  his.  &quot;A  man  has  to  have  some  privacy,&quot;  he  said  once.  My  par-  ents  thought  it  had  to  do  with  money.  Grandpa  had  no  pension  and  no  in-  come,  as  far  as  we  knew,  though  Dede  had  a  small  inheritance.  It  was  consid-  ered  impolite  to  ask  about  such  matters.  Perhaps  he  gambled.  I  slept  in  Dede's  room  that  week,  in  a  high  narrow  white-painted  bed  with  a  satin  comforter,  just  like  hers.  Grand-  pa's  room  was  down  the  hall.  They  had  their  own  bathrooms,  too;  their  paths  overlapped  only  downstairs.  One  evening,  Dede  and  I  were  alone.  It  was  a  Tuesday,  and  too  early  for  Grandpa  to  be  home  from  the  city.  I  was  getting  ready  for  bed.  &quot;Janie,&quot;  Dede  said,  &quot;shall  I  show  you  some-  thing  beautiful?&quot;  She  took  a  package  wrapped  in  yellowing  tissue  paper  from  the  bottom  ofa  drawer.  Inside  was  a  nightgown  of  delicate  peach-colored  silk,  trimmed  with  lace.  &quot;Your  grand-  father  bought  it  for  me  in  Paris,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;We  went  there  on  our  honey-  moon.&quot;  Seeing  the  greedy  expression  in  my  eyes,  she  added,  &quot;Would  you  like  to  try  it  on?&quot;  It  was  a  chemise,  with  a  belt  that  tied  low  over  the  hips,  and  it  must  have  been  the  height  of  fashion  in  the  early  twenties,  when  it  was  new.  I  admired  myself  in  it  in  the  full-length  mirror.  Then,  as  Dede  was  helping  me  take  it  off  over  my  head,  it  caught  on  my  elbow  and  the  papery  silk  gave  way.  I  thought  Dede  would  be  upset-it  was  ruined-but  all  she  said  was  &quot;Never  mind.  I  haven't  worn  it  in  years.&quot;  When  it  was  time  for  me  to  go  home,  my  grandfather  took  me  into  the  city,  to  [REDACTED]  Station.  He  had  to  buy  me  another  return-trip  ticket  and  give  me  five  dollars,  because  I'd  left  my  purse-the  first  I'd  ever  owned,  bought  especially  for  this  trip-  on  Dede's  mirror-topped  dresser.  &quot;Don't  worry  about  it,  honey,&quot;  Grand-  pa  said,  paying  for  the  second  ticket,  but  I  thought  he  had  grown  a  little  tired  of  having  his  life  disrupted  by  an  excitable  child.  He  bought  me  a  candy  bar  and  a  copy  of  Cosmopolitan,  which  he  apparently  thought  was  suitable  read-  ing  for  a  ten-year-old,  and  put  me  on  the  train  for  [REDACTED].  FEW  years  after  that  visit,  Dede  had  a  stroke,  and  then  she  had  to  stay  home  most  of  the  time.  She  used  a  metal  walker  to  get  around.  She  spent  her  days  with  a  nurse,  reading  Reader's  " b"Digest  Condensed  Books  and  smoking  Pall  Malls,  while  my  grandfather  went  on  playing  tennis-long,  leisurely  dou-  bles  matches-and  bridge,  and  going  to  the  city  on  Tuesdays.  Dede  grew  very  thin.  Her  skin  became  so  soft  and  wrinkled  that  it  seemed  it  might  turn  to  powder.  And  though  she  still  wore  perfume  she  no  longer  smelled  delicious.  I  went  to  see  her  on  my  way  [REDACTED]  to  college.  Her  hair  had  been  cut  short  a  few  weeks  before,  to  make  it  easier  to  care  for,  and  her  hand  kept  stray-  ing  to  the  blunt,  slightly  upturned  edge  at  the  nape  of  her  neck.  Years  before,  Dede  had  told  me  that  when  she  was  young  her  hair  was  red,  the  red-gold  of  an  Irish  setter-thick  and  wavy  and  so  long  she  could  sit  on  it.  Marie,  the  hairdresser  on  Main  Street  who  had  taken  care  of  Dede's  hair  for  twenty  years,  had  come  to  the  house  to  cut  it.  The  nurse  told  me  that  after  Marie  was  finished  she  handed  Dede  a  mirror,  as  hairdressers  always  do,  but  Dede  handed  it  back  without  looking.  When  I  arrived,  Dede  thought  I  was  my  mother.  She  was  embarrassed  at  her  mistake,  During  that  visit,  she  often  forgot  what  she  was  saying  in  the  mid-  dle  of  sentences,  and  she  answered  questions  I  hadn't  asked.  When  I  was  a  sophomore  in  college,  she  died.  FIVE  or  six  years  after  Dede's  death,  Grandpa  came  to  my  apartment  for  Thanksgiving  dinner.  I  was  married  then-briefly,  as  it  turned  out-and  living  in  New  York,  in  a  sunny  but  noisy  walkup  in  the  East  Eighties,  over  a  German  restaurant.  I  had  invited  the  whole  family  for  the  holiday.  They  had  slept  at  Grandpa's  house  in  New  Jersey-my  two  sisters  in  Dede's  mir-  rored  Art  Deco  bedroom.  Since  I  had  done  the  cooking,  after  dinner  my  motherand  sisters  squeezed  into  the  pullman  kitchen  to  wash  the  mountain  of  dishes.  My  husband  and  father  and  brothers  went  out  for  a  walk,  and  Grandpa  and  I  were  left  alone,  for  what  I  think  was  the  first  time  since  that  trip  to  New  York  when  I  was  a  child.  He  had  grown  quite  deaf  in  re-  cent  years.  He  wore  a  hearing  aid,  but  he  seemed  to  prefer  the  solitude  of  having  it  turned  off.  During  dinner,  he  sat  at  the  table  wrapped  in  silence  un-  til  someone  nudged  him  or  called  his  name  loudly,  and  then  he  would  turn  up  the  device.  You  could  almost  see  him  struggling  to  focus.  Sometimes  he  spoke  up  in  the  middle  of  somebody's  sentence,  as  if  he  had  forgotten  that  people  could  talk  when  he  couldn't  hear.  We  stood  at  the  window,  watching the  younger  men  down  on  the  street  looking  at  the  TV  sets  flickering  in  an  appliance  store,  The  Thanksgiving  football  games  were  onand  we  didn't  have  a  television  set.  &quot;Jack  seems  like  a  nice  boy,  Janie,&quot;  my  grandfather  said,  referring  to  my  husband.  &quot;He's  a  smart  boy.  He  knows  what  he  wants.&quot;  This  was  the  first  time  they'd  met.  Grandpa  had  said  it  would  make  him  too  sad  to  come  to  the  wedding  without  Dede,  but  I  knew  he  hated  family  ceremonial  gatherings.  Jack  was  a  veterinarian.  He  worked  at  the  Animal  Medical  Center  over  on  East  Sixty-second  Street.  Before  din-  ner,  Grandpa  had  been  asking  him  about  his  work,  and  Jack  said  in  the  course  of  the  conversation  that  he  hoped  someday  to  set  up  a  country  practice.  I  was  surprised  at  that  (I  thought  he  liked  the  Center)  and  also  at  how  well  they  got  along-Jack's  scruffy  look  and  tenderness  toward  animals  seemed  incompatible  with  my  grandfather's  urbanity.  Jack  brought  out  something  in  Grandpa  I'd  never  seen,  and  I  understood  why  when  he  added,  &quot;I  wanted  to  be  a  vet  once  myself,&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  know  that,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Oh  yes.&quot;  He  eased  himself  into  a  chair.  &quot;I  grew  up  on  a  farm  in  Ohio,&quot;  he  went  on,  as  if  he  were  reading  from  a  book,  &quot;and  I  loved  animals.  I  liked  taking  care  of  them  when  they  were  sick,  and  I  had  a  talent  for  it,  too.  But  my  father  said  no.  He  said,  flat  out,  no.  In  those  days  a  veterinari-  an  went  around  from  farm  to  farm,  and  they  weren't  very  well  paid.  My  father  had  been  saving  all  his  life  for  me  to  go  to  school.  So  I  became  an  optician.  It  was  easier  then-you  didn't  have  to  know  so  much.  But  I  missed  those  animals  And  I  didn't  care  for  making  eyeglasses.&quot;  &quot;Did  you  ever  get  to  like  it?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;No,  Well,  yes,  once  in  a  while  a  kid  would  come  in  who  might  beten  or  eleven  years  old  and  just  getting  his  first  pair  of  glasses.  When  he  got  those  new  glasses  and  he  could  see  the  tops  ofthe  trees  for  the  first  time-that  was  the  thing  they  always  mentioned-  well,  then  I  liked  it.  But  mostly  it  was  just  listening  to  people  read  those  damn  letters  on  the  damn  chart.&quot;  This  was  more  than  he'd  ever  told  " b"me  about  himself  before.  &quot;What  do  you  do  now,  during  the  day?&quot;  I  asked.  He  got  up  and  went  over  to  the  window,  opened  it,  and  knocked  his  pipe  against  the  brick  sill.  I  wasn't  sure  he  was  going  to  answer.  Maybe  he  hadn't  heard.  Finally,  he  said,  &quot;I  go  to  the  club.  I  don't  play  tennis  anymore.  I  don't  play  much  bridge.  The  fellows  are  mostly  gone.  We  can't  often  geta  foursome  together.&quot;  He  paused.  Then  he  said,  &quot;I  go  to  the  movies.&quot;  I  was  startled-I  guess  at  finding  that  he  did  something  thatI  did,  too.  That  we  had  something  in  common.  He  went  every  Monday  afternoon,  he  told  me.  He'd  seen  &quot;Barefoot  in  the  Park&quot;  that  week.  &quot;I  didn't  know  you  liked  the  movies,  Grandpa,&quot;  I  said,  remembering  the  time  he  had  slept  through  &quot;The  Spirit  of  St.  Louis.&quot;  &quot;Well,  honey,  I  never  did  before.  But  it  gives  me  something  to  do  now.  I'm  lonely.&quot;  I  didn't  know  what  tosay.  We  hadn't  been  close  in  years.  Once  I  was  old  enough  not  to  be  dazzled  by  red-  plush  restaurants,  I  wasn't  even  sure  I  liked  him.  I  couldn't  play  tennis  as  well  as  he  wanted  me  to,  and  I  thought  I  disappointed  him  in  other  ways,  too  (I  didn't  kiss  him  as  often  as  my  flirta-  tious  cousins  did).  His  admission  em-  barrassed  me.  Besides,  I  didn't  believe  it.  He'd  spent  so  little  time  with  Dede  when  she  was  alive.  But  before  I  could  say  anything,  he  asked,  &quot;What  would  you  think  if  I  got  married?&quot;  After  a  moment,  I  said,  &quot;That  would  be  nice,&quot;  and  wished  I  had  thought  of  something  less  feeble.  Then  I  realized  I  didn't  know  what  he  had  meant.  &quot;Is  that  a  hypothetical  question,  or  doyou  have  somebody  in  mind?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  I  do,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;but  I  haven't  told  her  yet.&quot;  I  wanted  to  ask  if  he  was  in  love  with  whoever  it  was  but  didn't  know  how  to  without  intruding.  &quot;It  would  just  be  for  companion-  ship,&quot;  he  said,  as  if  he  had  read  my  mind.  Was  he  telling  me  that  because  he  thought  I  disapproved?  Feeling  I  had  been  too  unresponsive,  I  said  again,  more  emphatically,  &quot;I  think  that  would  be  very  nice.  I  really  do,&quot;  and  kissed  him  on  the  cheek.  &quot;It  would  just  be  for  companion-  ship,&quot;  he  repeated.  He  put  his  hand  on  my  arm,  as  he  often  did-an  ab-  sent-minded  gesture,  like  holding  on  to  a  railing  when  going  down  stairs  and  we  sat  in  silence  until  Jack  and  my  father  and  brothers  came  back.  Then  Grandpa  turned  off  his  hearing  aid  and  went  to  sleep;  his  gnarled  fingers  loosened  their  grip  on  my  arm.  A  story  I  read  in  the  newspaper  shortly  afterward  said  that  old  people  who  are  about  to  remarry  often  tell  their  children  that  they're  doing  it  only  for  companionship.  They're  afraid  of  shocking  them  with  the  idea  of  love  and  sex  at  such  an  advanced  age.  I  DIDN'T  see  Grandpa  again.  Jack  and  I  went  to  his  family's  house  in  [REDACTED]  for  Christmas.  For  the  rest  of  the  winter  we  were  busy  working,  or  so  we  said  to  people  who  invited  us  out.  Grandpa  died  early  that  spring.  He'd  been  having  lunch  at  the  club  with  two  other  men,  both  also  widow-  ers,  when  he  announced  that  he  felt  ill  and  thought  he'd  better  go  home.  A  touch  of  indigestion,  he  told  his  friends,  He'd  never  been  sick  a  day  in  his  life,  he  always  said;  he  didn't  know  what  pain  was.  As  he  stood  up  toleave,  he  faltered  and  then  col-  lapsed,  bringing  the  tableful  of  dirty  dishes  down  on  top  of  him.  I  went  to  the  funeral  without  Jack.  He  said  he  couldn't  get  away  from  the  Center.  The  truth  was,  we  weren't  getting  along  very  well.  Like  that  curious  booming  one  hears  on  a  New  " b"England  lake  in  the  spring  as  the  first  imperceptible  cracks  run  through  the  ice,  Jack's  mentioning  to  my  grand-  father  at  Thanksgiving  that  he  wanted  to  live  in  the  country  had  been  a  warn-  ing  signal,  though  it  wasn't  until  a  few  weeks  later  that  I  realized  what  it  meant.  Just  after  Christmas,  the  owner  of  the  art  gallery  where  I  worked  told  me  she  was  planning  to  open  a  SoHo  branch  of  the  gallery  and  hoped  that  I  might  bethe  man-  ager.  The  new  job  was  an  opportunity  I  hadn't  expected  to  get  so  soon  and  I  was  delighted,  but  when  I  told  Jack  about  it  his  reaction  was  one  of  dismay.  We  didn't  talk  of  the  fact  that  our  plans  for  the  future  were  so  clearly  at  odds-or,  even  more  distressing,  that  neither  of  us  had  known  what  the  other  wanted-but  that  rift  weak-  ened  the  structure.  Soon  tiny  cracks  were  everywhere.  One  heavy  rain  and  the  whole  thing  would  wash  away.  Grandpa's  funeral  was  held  in  a  large  suburban  mausoleum.  Its  halls  were  lined  with  marble  plaques  that  gave  the  names  and  dates  of  the  peo-  ple  who  were  now  presumably  stored  as  ashes  behind  them.  The  service  in  the  chapel,  which  took  about  five  min-  utes,  was  disappointingly  lacking  in  drama  (the  coffin  merely  stood  at  the  front  of  the  room-I'd  thought  we'd  see  curtains  part  and  the  corpse  cere-  moniously  propelled  toward  flames).  I  felt  I  should  cry-he  had  been  my  last  living  grandparent-but  the  place  seemed  too  businesslike  for  tears.  The  organ  sounded  like  elevator  Muzak.  It  was  all  very  neat-the  way  he'd  have  wanted  it.  Afterward,  I  lingered  in  the  great  echoing  hall,  looking  for  Dede's  name  among  the  plaques.  I  hadn't  come  home  from  college  for  her  funeral.  Grandpa  hadn't  wanted  to  make  a  big  thing  of  it.  I'd  been  looking  only  a  few  minutes  when  a  plump  elderly  lady  with  curly  white  hair  came  out  of  the  chapel.  She  had  on  a  flowered  dress  and  white  beads,  and  a  navy-blue  hat  with  a  veil  billowing  up  over  it.  Her  eyes  were  very  blue  and  her  cheeks  glowed  pink-probably  not  naturally  but  cheerfully  just  the  same,.  She  walked  up  to  me  and  said,  &quot;You  must  be  Harvey's  granddaughter.  I'm  Louisa  Lake.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  I'm  the  oldest-Jane  Con-  roy,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;That's  my  married  name.&quot;  She  was  probably  ten  or  fifteen  years  younger  than  Grandpa  had  been.  &quot;Well,  it's  a  very  sad  thing.  I'll  miss  him,&quot;  she  said.  She  snapped  open  her  white  patent-leather  purse  and  pulled  out  a  white  lace-edged  hankie,  with  which  she  dabbed  at  her  eyes.  She  didn't  lookvery  sad.  She  went  on  briskly,  &quot;Harvey  Forbes  Franklin  al-  ways  did  things  just  the  way  he  wanted,  didn't  he?  I  think  this  is  the  way  he  would  have  wanted  it  to  end.  You  can't  begrudge  him  that.&quot;  &quot;No,  I  guess  you  can't.  He  didn't  suffer.&quot;  &quot;I'm  sure  he  never  suffered  a  day  in  his  life,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Harvey  knew  " b"how  to  make  himself  happy.  He  knew  what  he  wanted  and  he  did  it,  We  were  old  friends,  you  know.&quot;  I  said  I  didn't  know,  and  asked  when  they'd  met.  &quot;Oh,  years  ago,  before  my  husband,  Harry,  died.  I  met  your  grandfather  playing  bridge.  I  was  a  guest  at  a  tournament  at  his  club  in  New  Jersey.  I  asked  him  if  he'd  like  to  come  into  the  city  and  play  bridge  with  Harry  and  my  sister  and  me  the  next  week,  and  he  did,  and  we  had  a  wonderful  time.  It  became  a  regular  thing.  My  husband  and  Ilived  on  Park  [REDACTED],  and  your  grandfather  would  come  in  once  a  week  and  play  bridge.  Then  Harry  died-he  was  quite  a  bit  older  than  me  and  very  kind.  We  never  had  children,  but  we  were  happy  to-  gether.  Anyway,  after  Harry  died-  that  was  forty  years  ago-your  grand-  father  did  his  best  for  me.  We  never  started  up  the  bridge  afternoons  again,  because  it  wouldn't  have  seemed  right     without  Harry,  but  your  grandfather  and  I  were  in  the  habit  of  our  Tues-  day  afternoons.&quot;  She  paused.  &quot;Even-  tually-I  hope  this  won't  upset  you,  dear-eventually  we  fell  in  love.&quot;  &quot;I  had  no  idea,&quot;  I  said.  In  fact,  I  was  flabbergasted.  I  shouldn't  have  been,  though-there  were  plenty  of  clues,  now  that  I  thought  about  it,  I  wondered  if  my  parents  had  guessed.  &quot;Your  father  and  your  Aunt  Mary  were  still  young,&quot;  she  went  on,  as  if  compelled  to  finish  what  she  had  started,  &quot;and  I  never  would  have  thought  of  breaking  up  a  family,  but  I  couldn't  see  marrying  anyone  else,  either,  so  we  went  on  as  we  were  for  years.  After  his  children  were  older,  and  his  arthritis  set  in  and  he  had  to  stop  working-well,  he  wouldn't  leave  your  grandmother  then,  because  he  couldn't  have  supported  her  if  they  separated.  I  had  enough  for  all  three  of  us,  but  he  said  he  couldn't  accept  that.&quot;  &quot;How  did  he  support  himself  and  Dede?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;We  always  thought  he  played  the  horses  or  something  on  Tuesdays.&quot;  &quot;He  didn't  mind  taking  loans,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It  was  at  gifts  he  drew  the  line.  With  a  loan  he  could  always  say  he  would  pay  me  back.&quot;  After  a  minute,  she  said  matter-  of-factly,  &quot;I  hated  him,  too.  I  hated  him  for  the  way  he  treated  your  grandmother  at  the  end.  'That  poor  woman  died  of  neglect,  if  you  ask  me.&quot;  I  started  to  protest.  &quot;Oh,  I  don't  mean  literally,  She  was  starved  for  love  and  companion-  ship.  I  know.  I  lived  like  that  for  forty  years,  waiting  for  Tuesdays  to  come  around.&quot;  &quot;What  happened  after  Dede  died?  Why  didn't  you  get  married  then?&quot;  &quot;We  talked  about  it.  But  he  didn't  really  seem  to  care  anymore-not  in  theold  way.  It  would  have  been  only  for  companionship.&quot;  I  wondered  if  he  had  said  those  words  to  her.  She  paused.  &quot;It's  better  that  he's  dead,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  couldn't  have  stood  to  have  it  that  way.  I  never  thought,  when  we  started  out-it  was  just  for  fun-I  never  thought  it  would  be-  come  so  important.&quot;  Then  she  said  cheerily,  &quot;It  was  nice  to  meet  you,  dear.  I'm  offto  537061696e,  and  then  I'm  going  to  [REDACTED]  and  4974616c79  and  Greece  and  around  the  world.  I've  always  wanted  to  travel.  I  never  could  before.&quot;  She  turned  to  go,  but  turned  back.  &quot;There  was  never  anyone  I  could  tell,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I'm  so  glad  we  met.&quot;  STAYED  a  few  minutes  more,  looking  for  Dede's  plaque,  but  I  couldn't  find  it,  Two  green-suited  workmen  wheeled  Grandpa's  coffin  out.  It  rumbled  down  the  corridor.  I  wanted  to  think  about  what  Mrs.  Lake  had  said,  but  I  had  promised  to  meet  Jack  for  lunch,  and  I  was  already  late. "