 b"LOOKING  back  from  a  vantage  point  on  the  experience,  Alice  Tomlinson  felt  that  it  was  the  best  she  had  known  out  of  a  life  de-  voted  almost  compulsively  to  living  from  one  to  another.  For  more  than  fifteen  years  she  had  waited  for  some-  thing  like  it,  without  consciously  know-  ing  so.  Her  thorough  enjoyment  of  &quot;things&quot;-the  word  she  used  for  sur-  roundings  and  events  that  had  kept  her  fully  occupied  as  far  as  she  could  re-  member  (one  of  her  many  psychiatrists  put  that  at  about  the  age  of  four,  but  she  herself  clearly  recalled  sitting  up  in  the  bottom  of  a  rowboat  when  she  could  not  have  been  more  than  two  and  a  half)-made  even  nasty  or  bor-  ing  events  important  to  her.  Thus  she  could  recall  almost  benignly  being  slapped  once  by  a  Britishsoldier  in  [REDACTED]  when  she  had  laughed  nervously  at  the  wrong  place  during  a  silly  in-  terrogation  about  her  passport.  For  a  flash  she  had  felt  angry,  but  then  her  natural  smile  flooded  back  into  the  muscles  of  her  face,  and  all  was  well.  And  she  remembered  dimly  a  few  minutes  during  the  birth  of  her  child,  Anne,  when  she  had  felt  somewhat  tricked;  it  was  a  long,  hard  labor,  and  for  a  fleeting  stretch  of  time  seemed  dubiously  worth  the  effort.  However,  the  end  result  was  perfection,  and  Alice  forgot  her  cowardly  doubts  as  she  watched  the  girl  turn  into  a  fine  woman.  Alice  was  sure  of  her  practiced  pow-  er  to  make  people  like  her,  and  forgive  her  for  seeming  too  trivial,  too  smiley,  but  since  Anne's  marriage  to  Hubert,  a  famous  doctor,  coping  with  his  disdain  had  at  times  been  difficult  for  her.  The  trouble,  as  she  tried  to  define  it,  when  in  privacy  and  predawn  she  faced  puzzlement,  was  that  he  did  not  like  silly  women.  She  was  reputed  to  be  one,  because  she  laughed  a  lot  and  wore  frills  when  other  people  did  not,  and  tended  to  switch  conversation  from  laser  beams  and  plastic-lens  transplants  to  the  Dodgers.  Truth  to  tell,  for  many  years  of  widowhood  she  had  managed  to  raise  Anne  and  keep  the  two  of  them  well  housed  and  fed.  But  Hubert  was  basically  unamused  by  her.  Plainly,  she  bored  him,  and  he  was  put  off  by  her  lightness  when  occasionally  they  met  over  a  somewhat  tedious  dinner.  It  made  things  difficult  for  Anne.  She  stayed  rigid  and  attentive,  alert  to  every  subtle  twitch  from  Hubert,  while  Alice  prattled  on.  As  she  knew  with  deep  thanksgiving,  Anne  and  Hubert  loved  each  other  very  much.  That  was  rare,  and  she  did  not  wish  to  do  any-  thing  ever  to  crack  the  delicate  shell  of  their  relationship.  And  that  was  the  reason  she  often  stayed  away  when  she  was  gently  invited  to  spend  time  with  the  two  younger  people.  They  were  better  off  without  her,  she  knew.  She  would  develop  what  her  late  husband  referred  to  as  a  &quot;rhume  diplomatique,&quot;  or  be  called  to  the  kennelside  of  a  sick  dog,  or  have  to  attend  a  board  meeting.  When  the  three  of  them  met,  ev-  erything  was  pleasant  and  courteous;  they  were  eminently  well-mannered.  But  whatever  anybody  said,  no  matter  how  cautiously,  was  a  potential  bomb,  triggered  to  go  off  on  contact  with  the  hidden  resentments  and  mistrusts  of  people  living  on  different  levels.  It  was  tiring.  Alice  wished  passionately  that  she  had  never  been  cast  in  the  role  of  the  birdbrained  twittering  mother,  but  there  she  was,  laughing  nicely  but  un-  controllably  at  poor  Anne's  dinner  ta-  ble  when  Hubert  bent  toward  her  and  said  something  around  his  perfect  teeth  about  the  money  appeal  of  eye  surgery  among  young,  promising  medical  stu-  dents.  &quot;'Why  not?&quot;  Alice  asked,  smiling  widely.  &quot;Most  people  want  to  make  money.  Doctors  are  most  people.&quot;  Anne  stiffened  a  little  (was  this  a  slur,  a  goad,a  gaffe?  ),  and  Hubert  nodded.  &quot;'That  is  the  general  belief,&quot;  he  said  with  heavy  sarcasm  in  his  deep  voice,  which  Alice  had  once  told  him  was  perfect  &quot;bedside,&quot;  to  nobody's  amusement.  &quot;However,  even  if  we  healers  may  occasionally  be  called  hu-  man,  we  have  certain  standards  that  preclude  exploitation  of  our  natural  gifts,  and  ...&quot;  Alice  lifted  her  glass.  She  laughed  lightly  in  the  expected  way  and  said,  Yes.  Things  like  the  Hippocratic  oath  always  go  over  the  side  for  capital  gains-or,  at  least,  usually.&quot;  Her  son-in-law  looked  sombrely  at  her  and  his  wife  murmured  something  low  and  loving  to  him,  and  Alice  thought,  Oh  gord,  I've  done  it  again  .  ..  played  the  fool  .  ..  tried  to  be  silly  .  .  .  said  too  much.  So,  deftly,  they  all  talked  about  what  to  expect  of  the  next  year's  offerings  of  Pinot  Char-  donnays  until  things  tightened  up  again  and  awareness  and  alertness  crept  into  every  move  they  made,  every  word  they  spoke.  After  dinner,  Alice  sat  in  a  corner  of  thebig  soft  couch  and  wondered  how  long  it  would  take  to  reach  the  manwho  for  so  long  and  truly  had  been  her  girl's  partner.  Shewished  wholeheartedly  that  he  could  like  her.  She  knew  that  she  seemed  basically  in-  dependent  but  foolish  to  him,  which  did  not  really  bother  her;  what  ate  into  her  like  a  gnawing  rat  was  that  per-  haps  he  thought  \xc2\xabll  women  were  the  same,  that  even  his  wife,  Anne,  who  loved  him  the  way  he  loved  her,  was  as  foolish  as  her  mother-perhaps  as  foolish  as  his  own  mother  had  been.  This  depressed  Alice.  She  wished  that  she  were  young  enough  to  be  on  a  beach  near  Papeete,  or  old  enough  to  be  skipping  through  the  snow  in  Petro-  grad,  or  anywhere  but  here  in  the  rich  room  heavy  with  caution  and  impa-  tience.  &quot;'Three-handed  bridge?  Televi-  sion?&quot;  Hubert  asked.  &quot;Orhow  about  a  brandy  for  you  two?  I  have  surgery  at  seven  tomorrow.&quot;  Anne  looked  composedly  at  him,  but  her  voice  was  too  controlled  as  she  said,  &quot;Why  don't  you  turn  in,  then,  and  Mother  and  I  can  chat  here.&quot;  When  he  left,  Alice  sat  smiling  but  mute.  She  dared  not  say  a  word.  She  felt  stupefied  by  her  whole  life:  laugh-  ing,  having  a  fine  time,  working  hard  at  being  human.  And  here  facing  her  was  this  quiet  woman  who  was  her  child!  What  did  the  child-woman  have  to  say  except  that  she  was  happy  to  be  living  with  Hubert-a  big,  pompous,  grasping,  scheming,  conniving  stud  who  used  her  at  his  will  and  shaped  her  affections  and  her  tastes  and  in  gen-  eral  raped  her  spirit?  Alice  Tomlinson  was  angry.  She  looked  calmly  at  her  brandy  glass  in  the  firelight,  and  put  it  down.  She  decided  to  ask  something  that  was  not  lightsome,  and  started,  &quot;I  often  wonder,  darling  girl,  if  you  ...&quot;  She  stopped.  Anne  was  sitting  in  the  soft  light  with  her  head  cocked  like  a  wary  mother  quail's,  while  below,  from  the  den  or  playroom  or  whatever  it  was  called  in  that  suburban  area,  there  came  the  sound  of  execrable  but  brave  violin  music.  Her  face  looked  trans-  formed,  almost  beatific.  Alice  felt  ashamed.  She  smiled  again.  &quot;How  beautiful,&quot;  she  said  soft-  ly.  &quot;Hubert  is  playing  for  you  .  ..  for  us  both!I  am  truly  happy  he  felt  like  doing  this  tonight.&quot;  Anne,  dazed  with  gratitude  and  ad-  miration,  moved  quietly  about  the  room,  and  then  the  women  parted  " b"without  any  possible  attempt  at  what  Alice  had  hoped  for-whatever  that  was.  She  did  want  to  know  if  Anne  was  alive,  she  decided  mockingly;  was  she  the  puppet  of  a  partly  bald,  rich  doctor  or  was  this  zombie  really  a  sensate  person?  Could  either  of  them  talk?  Could  they  ever  say  more  than  &quot;Boo&quot;?  And  why  had  she  set  the  stage  for  them,  so  long  ago?  Why  had  she  laughed  and  acted  like  a  zany,  when  really  her  heart  felt  hollow  under  its  warpings  and  she  longed  for  more  than  casual  amusement  at  her  quips  and  frivolities?  Had  she  created  these  two  dullish  shadows  through  her  efforts  to  be  bright  and  funny  instead  of  lone-  ly  and  scared  and  sad?  In  bed,  with  the  sound  of  Hubert's  fiddle  still  squeaking  underneath  her  and  the  knowledge  that  her  daughter  was  across  the  house  in  a  properly  lush  room  with  two  turned-down  beds  and  dim  lights,  the  girl-like  docile  woman  probably  still  covered  in  a  bride's  pearly  satin,  the  mother  lay  without  smil-  ing.  She  asked  how  she  could  stop  seeming  foolish,  just  because  she  re-  fused  to  mourn  in  public,  weep  into  her  beer,  sob  at  weddings.  She  had  been  as  she  was  long  before  Mr.  J.  Allen  Tomlinson  died  at  an  early  age,  leav-  ing  her  one  child  and  a  great  deal  of  money.  She  had  laughed  almost  since  her  birth,  which  was  why  he  loved  and  married  her.  But  in  spite  of  her  mother's  ever-  blooming  smile,  their  child  was  basical-  ly  glum,  sothat  the  mother  ran  off  finally  to  Cannes  and  Salzburg  to  hide  her  laughter,  and  the  daughter  drifted  mournfully  in  Haight-Ashbury  for  a  few  years,  By  now  it  did  not  really  matter,  Alice  told  herself  as  she  lay  in  bed  listening  to  her  son-in-law  finish  &quot;Fir  Elise&quot;  and  then  clamp  the  fiddle  case  shut  and  come  upstairs.  By  now  Anne  was  happy.  By  now  she  was  in-  volved  in  civic  projects,  and  she  enter-  tained  often  and  smartly.  It  was  per-  haps  too  bad  that  she  and  Hubert  had  decided  not  to  have  children,  Alice  thought,  and  then  grinned  at  the  idea  of  a  composite  human  being  with  Anne's  straight  nose,  Hubert's  straight  mouth,  both  their  straight  minds....  She  went  off  into  a  good,  well-fed  sleep.  OME  time  later-perhaps  three  hours-things  seemed  stifling,  and  Alice  threw  off  all  the  covers  and  then  leapedout  of  bed,  felt  the  floor  too  hot  to  bear  and  leaped  back.  There  were  sirens  toward  the  front  of  the  hillside  house.  Everything  went  very  fast:  screams  from  Anne,  bellowing  calls  from  Hubert,  men  outside,  the  rippling  sound  of  water  pushing  against  flames  all  through  the  downstairs.  Oh,  the  violin,  she  thought.  Water  on  2a  good  fiddle!  She  tried  stepping  out  of  bed  again,  but  the  floor  was  hotter.  She  put  on  the  little  silky  jacket  she  always  kept  by  her  pillow,  and  sat  there  otherwise  uncovered,  feeling  like  a  draped  Hindu  ascetic  waiting  to  be  roasted.  &quot;Purdah  at  last,&quot;  she  said,  and  laughed,  in  a  fa-  miliar  casual  way,  as  if  she  already  knew  it.  Sirens  howled  louder,  People  shout-  " b'ed.  A  woman  kept  screaming,  and  Alice  Tomlinson  knew  with  vague  pleasure  that  it  was  her  girl  Anne.  That  was  nice,  she  thought  without  malice:  Anne  was  possibly  screaming  for  her.  The  air  was  thick.  Alice  wondered  about  breathing.  Was  it  like  freezing,  when  one  grew  drowsy,  according  to  reports,  and  then  snoozed  off?  Would  she  have  to  choke  a  bit?  She  hated  choking.  The  bed  she  was  sitting  on  began  to  tip.  Plainly,  the  floor  beneath  it  was  weakening.  She  thought,  This  is  inter-  esting-I  am  going  to  be  tossed  into  the  fires  of  Hell  in  spite  of  all  my  ef-  forts  to  stay  clear!  She  wished  she  had  brought  a  nightcap  of  brandy  to  blaze  with  her.  She  felt  somewhat  light-  headed  in  the  thinning  oxygen  but  quite  clear  in  mind.  The  door  crashed  as  if  it  were  pa-  per,  and  her  son-in-law  Hubert  lunged  into  the  room,.  His  beard  and  hair  were  gone,  and  she  realizedthat  he  had  a  fine  skull,  How  stupid  of  her  not  to  have  seen  it  before!  He  grabbed  her  right  hand,  and  pulled  her  off  the  teetering  bed  to  the  more  solid  floor  near  the  hallway,  which  was  as  dark  with  smoke  as  a  pit.  Behind  them  the  whole  end  of  the  house  fell  into  the  basement,  so  lately  riddled  with  fiddle  squeaks.  She  smiled  delightedly.  &quot;Come  on!&quot;  Hubert  cried.  He  pulled  her  up.  They  were  in  the  air.  Below,  the  house  blazed  and  there  was  an  ambulance  alongside  some  fire  trucks,  with  a  lot  of  light  and  bustle.  &quot;Come  on!&quot;  She  felt  her  hand  strongly  and  warmly  held  in  his,  and  they  circled  over  the  house  as  it  crumbled  into  a  red  glowing  heap.  The  ambulance  drove  off.  Two  of  the  fire  trucks  stayed  near-  by.  Neighbors  went  home,  shaking  their  heads,  andHubertand  Alice  stayed  lazily  abovethem.  She  laughed  a  little,  as  lightly  as  snowbells.  At  first,  she  felt  somewhat  timorous  or  giddy,  high  over  the  hotturmoil  below.,  There  had  been  a  scary  roar  when  the  structure  collapsed,  but  the  hand  that  grasped  hers  was  so  strong  and  she  felt  such  compassion  and  strength  coming  from  it  into  her  own  bones  that  she  held  on  firmly  as  they  rose  higher  and  higher.  Never  had  she  known  such  a  warm  loving  clasp.  It  told  whatever  she  had  always  looked  for.  She  felt  innocent  and  undemanding,  which  she  had  al-  ways  meant  to  be  anyway,  And  Anne  would  come  along  later. '