 b"IN  the  night,  way  into  the  middle  when  the  night  isn't  divided  like  a  sweet  drink  into  lit-  tle  sips,  when  there  is  no  just  before  mid-  night,  midnight,  or  just  after  midnight,  when  the  night  is  round  in  some  places,  flat  in  some  places,  and  in  some  places  like  a  deep  hole,  blue  at  the  edge,  black  inside,  the  night-soil  men  come.  They  come  and  go,  walking  on  the  damp  ground  in  straw  shoes.  Their  feet  in  the  straw  shoes  make  a  scratchy  sound.  They  say  nothing.  The  night-soil  men  can  see  a  bird  walking  in  trees.  It  isn't  a  bird.  It  is  a  woman  who  has  removed  her  skin  and  is  on  her  way  to  drink  the  blood  of  her  secret  enemies.  It  is  a  woman  who  has  left  her  skin  in  a  corner  of  a  house  made  out  of  wood.  It  is  a  wom-  an  who  is  reasonable  and  admires  honeybees  in  the  hibiscus.  It  is  a  wom-  an  who,  as  a  joke,  brays  like  a  donkey  when  he  is  thirsty.  There  is  the  sound  of  a  cricket,  there  is  the  sound  of  a  church  bell,  there  is  the  sound  of  this  house  creak-  ing,  that  house  creaking,  and  the  other  house  creaking  as  they  settle  into  the  ground.  There  is  the  sound  ofa  radio  in  the  distance-a  fisherman  listening  to  merengue  music.  There  is  the  sound  of  a  man  groaning  in  his  sleep;  there  is  the  sound  of  a  woman  disgusted  at  the  man  groaning.  There  is  the  sound  of  the  man  stabbing  the  woman,  the  sound  of  her  blood  as  it  hits  the  floor,  the  sound  of  Mr.  Straffee,  the  under-  taker,  taking  her  body  away.  There  is  the  sound  of  her  spirit  back  from  the  dead,  looking  at  the  man  who  used  to  groan;  he  is  running  a  fever  forever.  There  is  the  sound  of  a  woman  writ-  ing  a  letter;  there  is  the  sound  of  her  pen  nib  on  the  white  writing  paper;  there  is  the  sound  of  the  kerosene  lamp  dimming;  there  is  the  sound  of  her  head  aching.  The  rain  falls  on  the  tin  roofs,  on  the  leaves  in  the  trees,  on  the  stones  in  the  yard,  on  sand,  on  the  ground.  The  night  is  wet  in  some  places,  warm  in  some  places.  There  is  Mr.  Gishard,  standing  un-  der  a  cedar  tree  which  is  in  full  bloom,  wearing  that  nice  white  suit,  which  is  as  fresh  as  the  day  he  was  buried  in  it.  The  white  suit  came  from  [REDACTED]  in  a  brown  package:  &quot;To:  Mr.  John  Gi-  shard,&quot;  and  so  on  and  so  on.  Mr.  Gishard  is  standing  under  the  tree,  wearing  his  nice  suit  and  holding  a  glass  full  of  rum  in  his  hand-the  same  glass  full  of  rum  that  he  had  in  his  hand  shortly  before  he  died-and  looking  at  the  house  in  which  he  used  to  live.  The  people  who  now  live  in  the  house  walk  through  the  door  back-  ward  when  they  see  Mr.  Gishard  standing  under  the  tree,  wearing  his  nice  white  suit.  Mr.  Gishard  misses  his  accordion;  you  can  tell  by  the  way  he  keeps  tapping  his  foot.  IN  my  dream  I  can  hear  a  baby  be-  ing  born.  I  can  see  its  face,  a  pointy  litle  face-so  nice.  I  can  see  its  hands-so  nice,  again.  Its  eyes  are  closed.  It's  breathing,  the  little  baby.  It's  breathing.  It's  bleating,  the  little  baby.  It's  bleating.  The  baby  and  I  are  now  walking  to  pasture.  The  baby  is  eating  green  grass  with  its  soft  and  pink  lips.  My  mother  is  shaking  me  by  the  shoulders.  My  mother  says,  &quot;Little  Miss,  Little  Miss.&quot;  I  say  to  my  mother,  &quot;But  it's  still  night.&quot;  My  mother  says,  &quot;'Yes,  but  you  have  wet  your  bed  again.&quot;  And  my  mother,  who  is  still  young,  and  still  beautiful,  and  still  has  pink  lips,  removes  my  wet  nightgown,  removes  my  wet  sheets  from  my  bed.  My  mother  can  change  everything.  In  my  dream  I  am  in  the  night.  &quot;What  are  the  lights  in  the  moun-  tains?&quot;  &quot;'The  lights  in  the  mountains?  Oh,  it's  a  jJablesse.&quot;  &quot;A  jablesse!  But  why?  What's  a  jablesse?&quot;  &quot;It's  a  person  who  can  turn  into  anything.  But  you  can  tell  they  aren't  real  because  of  their  eyes.  Their  eyes  shine  like  lamps,  so  bright  that  you  can't  look.  That's  how  you  can  tell  it's  a  jablesse.  They  like  to  go  up  in  the  mountains  and  gallivant.  'Take  good  care  when  you  see  a  beautiful  woman.  A  jablesse  always  tries  to  look  like  a  beautiful  woman.&quot;  O  one  has  ever  said  to  me,  &quot;My  father,  a  night-soil  man,  is  very  nice  and  very  kind.  When  he  passes  a  dog,  he  gives  a  pat  and  not  a  kick.  He  likes  all  the  parts  of  a  fish  but  especially  the  head.  He  goes  to  church  quite  regu-  larly  and  is  always  glad  when  the  min-  ister  calls  out,  'A  Mighty  Fortress  Is  Our  God,'  his  favorite  hymn.  He  would  like  to  wear  pink  shirts  and  pink  pants  but  knows  that  this  color  isn't  very  be-  coming  to  a  man,  so  instead  he  wears  navy  blue  and  brown,  colors  he  does  not  like  at  all.  He  met  my  mother  on  what  masquerades  as  a  bus  around  here,  a  long  time  ago,  and  he  still  likes  to  whis-  tle.  Once,  while  running  to  catch  a  bus,  he  fell  and  broke  his  ankle  and  had  to  spend  a  week  in  the  hospital.  This  made  him  miserable,  but  he  cheered  up  " b"quite  a  bit  when  he  saw  my  motherand  me,  standing  over  his  white  cot,  holding  bunches  of  yellow  roses  and  smil-  ing  down  at  him.  Then  he  said,  'Oh,  my.  Oh,  my.&quot;  What  he  likes  to  do  most,  my  father  the  night-soil  man,  is  to  sit  on  a  big  stone  under  a  mahogany  tree  and  watch  small  children  playing  play-cricket  while  he  eats  the  intes-  tines  of  animals  stuffed  with  blood  and  rice  and  drinks  ginger  beer.  He  has  told  me  this  many  times:  'My  dear,  what  I  like  to  do  most,  and  so  on.  He  is  always  reading  botany  books  and  knows  a  lot  about  rubber  plantations  and  rubber  trees;  but  this  is  an  interest  I  can't  ex-  plain,  since  the  only  rubber  tree  he  has  ever  seen  is  a  specially  raised  one  in  the  botanic  gardens.  He  sees  to  it  that  my  school  shoes  fit  comfortably.  I  love  my  father  the  night-soil  man.  My  mother  loves  my  father  the  night-soil  man.  Ev-  erybody  loves  him  and  waves  to  him  whenever  they  see  him.  He  is  very  handsome,  you  know,  and  I  have  seen  women  look  at  him  twice.  On  special  days  he  wears  a  brown  felt  hat,  which  he  orders  from  [REDACTED],  and  brown  leather  shoes,  which  he  also  orders  from  [REDACTED].  On  ordinary  days  he  goes  barehead.  When  he  calls  me,  I  say,  'Yes,  sir.?  On  my  mother's  birth-  day  he  always  buys  her  some  nice  cloth  for  a  new  dress  as  a  present.  He  makes  us  happy,  my  father  the  night-soil  man,  and  has  promised  that  one  day  he  will  take  us  to  see  something  he  has  read  about  called  the  circus.&quot;  N  the  night,  the  flowers  close  up  and  thicken.  The  hibiscus  flowers,  the  flamboyant  flowers,  the  bachelor's  buttons,  the  irises,  the  marigolds,  the  whitehead-bush  flowers,  the  lilies,  the  flowers  on  the  daggerbush,  the  flowers  on  the  turtleberry  bush,  the  flowers  on  the  soursop  tree,  the  flowers  on  the  sugar-apple  tree,  the  flowers  on  the  mango  tree,  the  flowers  on  the  guava  tree,  the  flowers  on  the  cedar  tree,  the  flowers  on  the  stinking-toe  tree,  the  flowers  on  the  dumps  tree,  the  flowers  on  the  papaw  tree,  the  flowers  every-  where  close  up  and  thicken.  The  flow-  ers  are  vexed. Someone  is  making  a  basket,  some-  one  is  making  a  girl  a  dress  or  a  boy  a  shirt,  someone  is  making  her  husband  a  soup  with  cassava  sothat  he  can  take  it  to  the  cane  field  tomorrow,  some-  one  is  making  his  wife  a  beautiful  ma-  hogany  chest,  someone  is  sprinkling  a  colorless  powder  outside  a  closed  door  so  that  someone  else's  child  will  be  stillborn,  someone  is  praying  that  a  bad  child  who  is  living  prosperously  abroad  will  be  goodand  send  a  pack-  age  filled  with  new  clothes,  someone  is  sleeping.  NOW  I  am  a  girl,  but  one  day  I  will  marry  a  woman-a  red-skin  woman  with  black  bramblebush  hair  and  brown  eyes,  who  wears  skirts  that  are  so  big  I  can  easily  bury  my  head  in  them.  I  would  like  to  marry  this  wom-  an  and  live  with  her  in  a  mud  hut  near  the  sea.  In  the  mud  hut  will  be  two  chairs  and  one  table,  a  lamp  that  burns  kerosene,  a  medicine  chest,  a  pot,  one  bed,  two  pillows,  two  sheets,  one  look-  ing  glass,  two  cups,  two  saucers,  two  dinner  plates,  two  forks,  two  drinking-  water  glasses,  one  china  pot,  two  fish-  ing  strings,  two  straw  hats  to  ward  the  hot  sun  off  our  heads,  two  trunks  for  things  we  have  very  little  use  for,  one  basket,  one  book  of  plain  paper,  one  box  filled  with  twelve  crayons  of  different  colors,  one  loaf  of  bread  wrapped  in  a  piece  of  brown  paper,  one  coal  pot,  one  picture  of  two  women  standing  on  a  jetty,  one  picture  of  the  same  two  women  embracing,  one  picture  of  the  same  two  women  waving  goodbye,  one  box  of  matches.  Every  day  this  red-skin  woman  and  I  will  eat  bread  and  milk  for  breakfast,  hide  in  bushes  and  throw  hardened  cow  dung  at  people  we  don't  like,  climb  coconut  trees,  pick  coconuts,  eat  and  drink  the  food  and  water  from  the  coconuts  we  have  picked,  throw  stones  in  the  sea,  put  on  John  Bull  masks  and  frighten  defenseless  little  children  on  their  way  home  from  school,  go  fishing  and  catch  only  our  favorite  fishes  to  roast  and  have  for  din-  ner,  steal  green  figs  to  eat  for  dinner  with  the  roast  fish.  Every  day  we  would  do  this.  Every  nightI  would  sing  this  woman  a  song;  the  words  I  don't  know  yet,  but  the  tune  is  in  my  head.  This  woman  I  would  like  to  marry  knows  many  things,  but  to  me  she  will  only  tell  about  things  that  would  never  dream  of  making  me  cry;  and  every  night,  over  and  over,  she  will  tell  me  something  that  begins,  &quot;Before  you  were  born.&quot;  I  will  marry  a  woman  like  this,  and  every  night,  every  night,  I  will  be  completely  happy. "