 b"WHAT  did  you  do  today?  --Went  to  the  grocery  store  and  Xeroxed  a  box  of  English  muffins,  two  pounds  of  ground  veal,  and  an  apple.  In  flagrant  viola-  tion  of  the  Copyright  Act.  -You  had  your  nap,  I  remember  that.  -I  had  my  nap.  -Lunch,  I  remember  that,  there  was  lunch,  slept  with  Susie  after  lunch,  then  your  nap.  Woke  up,  right?  Went  Xeroxing,  right?  Read  a  book,  not  a  whole  book  but  part  of  a  book-  -Talked  to  Happy  on  the  tele-  phone  saw  the  seven-o'clock  news  did  not  wash  the  dishes  want  to  clean  up  some  of  this  mess?  -If  one  does  nothing  but  listen  to  the  new  music,  everything  else  drifts,  goes  away,  frays.  Did  Odys-  seus  feel  this  way,  when  he  and  Di-  omedes  decided  to  steal  Athene's  statue  from  the  Trojans,  so  that  they  would  become  dejected  and  lose  the  war?  I  don't  think  so,  but  who  is  to  know  what  effect  the  new  mu-  sic  of  that  remote  time  had  on  its  hearers?  -Or  how  it  compares  to  the  new  music  of  this  time?  -One  can  only  conjecture.  -Ah  well.  I  was  talking  to  a  girl,  talking  to  her  mother  actually  but  the  daughter  was  very  much  present,  on  the  street.  The  daughter  was  absolute,  ly  someone  you'd  like  to  take  to  bed  and  hug  and  kiss,  if  you  weren't  too  old.If  she  weren't  too  young.  She  was  a  wonderful-looking  young  wom-  an  and  she  was  looking  at  me  quite  seductively,  very  seductively,  smolder-  ing,  a  bit,  and  I  was  thinking  quite  well  of  myself,  very  well  indeed,  thinking  myself  quite  the  ...  Until  I  realized  she  was  just  practicing.  -Yes,  I  still  think  of  myself  as  a  young  man.  -Yes.  -A  slightly  old  young  man.  -T  hat's  not  unusual.  -A  slightly  old  young  man  still  ad-  vertising  in  the  trees  and  rivers  for  a  mate.  -Yes.  -Being  clean.  -You're  very  clean.  -Cleaner  than  most.  --It's  not  escaped  me.  Your  clean-  ness.  -Some  of  these  people  aren't  clean.  People  you  meet.  -What  can  you  do?  -Set  an  example.  Be  clean.  -Dig  it,  dig  it.  -I  got  three  different  shower  heads.  Different  degrees  of  sting.  -Dynamite.  -I  got  one  of  these  Finnish  pads  that  slip  over  the  hand.  -Niimero  uno.  --Pedicare.  That's  another  thing.  -Think  you're  the  mule's  eye-  brows  don't  you?  -No,  I  feel  like  Insufficient  Funds.  -Feel  like  a  busted-up  car  by  the  side  of  the  road  strippedofvalue.  -Feel  like  I  don't  like  this!  -You're  just  a  little  down,  man,  down,  that's  what  they  call  it,  down.  --Well  how  come  they  didn't  bring  us  no  ring  of  roses  with  a  purple  silk  sash  with  gold  lettering  on  that  moth-  er?  How  come  that?  -Dunno  baby.  Maybe  we  lost?  -How  could  we  lose?  How  could  we?  We!  -We  were  standing  tall.  Ready  to  hand  them  their  asses,  clean  their  clocks.  Yet  maybe-  -I  remember  theold  days  when  we  almost  automatically-  -Yes.  Almost  without  effort-  -Right.  Come  in,  Commander.  Put  it  right  there,  anywhere  will  do,  let  me  move  that  for  you.  Just  put  that  sucker  down  right  there.  An  eleven-  foot-high  silver  cup!  -Beautifully  engraved,  with  dates.  -Beautifully  engraved,  with  dates.  That  was  then.  &amp;  -Well.  Is  there  help  coming?  -I  called  the  number  for  help  and  they  said  there  was  no  more  help.  -Blackberries,  buttercups,  and  wild  red  clover.  I  find  the  latest  music  ter-  rific,  although  I  don't  generally  speak-  ing  care  much  for  the  new,  qua  new.  But  this  new  music!  It  has  won  from  our  group  the  steadiest  attention.  -She  told  me  she  licked  her  own  breasts,  when  alone.  It  helped,  she  said.  -Our  Susie.  -Our  darling.  -Floating  objects  floating  by,  some  of  them  recognizable  as  cats-  -Can't  we  get  this  mess  cleaned  up?  -Some  monster  with  claws,  maybe  velvet-covered  claws  or  Teflon-cov-ered  claws,  inhabits  my  dreams.  Whistling,  whistling.  I  say,  Monster,  how  goes  it  with  you?  Quite  happily,  dreammate,  he  says.  There  are  certain  criticisms,  the  Curator  of  Archetypes  thinks  I  don't  quite  cut  it,  thinks  I'm  shuckin'  and  jivin'  when  what  I  should  be  doing  is  attacking,  attacking,  attack-  ing,  as  Rommel  instructed.  -Ah,  my  baweock,  what  a  splendid  fellow  thou  art.  -But  on  the  whole,  the  monster  says,  I  feel  fine.  Then  he  says,  gimme  that  cornflake  back.  I  say,  what?  He  says,  gimme  that  cornflake  back.  I  say,  you  gave  me  that  cornflake  it's  my  cornflake,  He  says,  gimme  that  corn-  flake  back  or  I'll  claw  you  to  thread.  I  say,I  can't  man  you  gave  it  to  me  I  already  ate  it.  He  says,  c'mon  gimme  the  cornflake  back  did  you  butter  it  first?  Isay,  c'mon  man  be  reasonable,  you  don't  butter  a  cornflake.  -How  does  it  end?  -It  doesn't  end.  -Is  there  help  coming?  -I  called  that  number  and  they  said  whom  the  Lord  loveth  He  chas-  teneth.  -Where  is  love?  -In  the  new  music.  -Yes,  it  isn't  often  you  hear  a  disco  version  of  &quot;Un  Coup  de  D\xc3\xa9s.&quot;  Makes  one  want  to  think  harder,  more  moral-  ly,  toward  various  good  ends.  -The  new  music  is  drumless,  which  is  brave.  To  make  up  for  the  absence  of  drums  the  musicians  pray  nightly  to  the  Virgin,  kneeling  in  their  suits  of  lights  in  damp  chapels  provided  forthe  purpose  off  the  corridors  of  the  great  arena.  -I  was  talking  to  a  woman.  She  was  standing  there  with  a  bandage  over  her  eyes.  -Yes?  -She  got  everything.  -You  mean  the  settlement.  -He  got  his  tie.  The  red  tie.  -The  house?  -She  got  the  house.  -The  boat?  -She  got  the  boat.  -The  kids?  -Of  course  the  kids.  He  got  his  tie.  The  red  tie.  -Cleaned  him  outdid  she?  -She  was  wearing  a  silk  dress  pat-  terned  with  red  roses  against  a  black  field  and  fringed  with  a  white  tulle  collar  torn  from  a  book.  She  slapped  me  with  her  open  hand  and  I  thought,  God  damn  it,  woman,  I'm  not  the  one  you're  mad  at,  it's  someone  else,  some-  one  else,  someone  you've  not  met  yet,  Odysseus,  Diomedes.  .  ..  -Where  does  one  go  to  com-  " b"plain?  Where  does  one  go  to  complain,  when  fiends  have  worsened  your  life?  -I  thought  for  days,  wondering  what  her  eyes  were  like  under  the  thick,  pancake-colored  bandage,  The  other  wives  run  away  from  such  a  wife,  as  if  her  state  were  catching.  Then,  slowly,  they  return,  one  by  one,  carrying  sprays  of  baby's  breath,  bas-  kets  of  periwinkles.  ...  -But  perhaps  one  ought  mot  to  complain,  when  fiends  have  worsened  your  life.  But  rather,  emulating  the  great  Stoics,  Epictetus  and  so  on,  just  zip  into  a  bar  and  lift  a  few,  whilst  listening  to  the  new,  incorrigible,  great-  white-shark,  knife,  music.  -I  handed  the  tall  cool  Shirley  Temple  to  the  silent  priest.  The  new  music,  I  said,  is  not  specifically  anti-  clerical.  Only  in  its  deepest  effects.  -I  know  the  guy  who  plays  wash-  board,  wears  thimbles  on  all  his  fin-  gers.  -I  have  to  tell  you  something,  Susie  says  other  women  have  more  orgasms  than  she  does,  she's  been  read-  ing  &quot;'The  Hite  Report.&quot;  Susie  says  oth-  er  women  have  more,  wanted  to  know  why.  I  told  her  about  the  great  Quad-  raphonic  Orgasm,  implying  she  could  have  one,  if  she  was  good,  but  it  is  growing  late,  very  late  indeed,  for  such  as  we.  -Our  Susie,  my  Susie,  your  Susie.  I'd  rather  drink  beer  and  own  a  fine  shotgun,  like  Mallarm\xc3\xa9.  Remember  that  afternoon  in  1876  when  he  was  out  shooting  fauns,  took  two  fauns  over  the  limit  which  was  even  then  rather  generous?  -Rape  of  nymphs,  persuasion  of  nymphs  ...  -All  sitting  on  banquette  with  their  white  napkins  laid  over  their  white  or  black  shoulders,  left  shoul-  ders,  white  or  black  bare  shoulders  as  the  manual  prescribes.  -Is  thatthe  bunch  that  caused  all  the  trouble?  -Tall  elegant  waiters  waiting,  monumental  with  greatblack  Rodin  wrinkles  in  their  hair.  While  this  new  music  we  like  so  much,  and  believe  in  so  immensely,  is  played.  -What  is  the  message  of  the  new  music?  Let  me  say  this:  The  message  of  the  new  music  is  the  telegram  of  tumescence,  that  is  to  say  hope.  Tiny  penises  wrinkling,  then  getting  big  again.  Yes  this  is  reductionary,  but,  at  the  same  time,  fundamental.  Let  us  not  neglect  the  messages  the  new  music  has  for  our  dear  counterparts,  such  as  Susie,  which  is  wetness,  to  be  frank  about  it.  It  is  not  wrong  of  the  new  music  to  carry,  or  engen-  der,  these  responses.  The  new  music  burns  things  together,  like  a  welder.  The  new  music  says  life  becomes  more  and  more  exciting  as  there  is  less  and  less  time.  -To  the  curious:  A  man  who  was  a  Communist  heard  the  new  music,  and  now  is  not.  Fernando  the  fish-  seller  was  taught  to  read  and  write  by  the  new  music,  and  is  now  a  leper,  white  as  snow.  William  Friend  was  caught  trying  to  sneak  into  the  new  music  with  a  set  of  bongos  concealed  under  his  cloak,  but  was  garrotted  with  his  own  bicycle  chain,  just  in  time.  Propp  the  philosopher,  having  dinner  with  the  Holy  Ghost,  was  told  of  the  coming  of  the  new  music  but  also  in-  formed  that  he  would  not  live  to  hear  it.  -Succeed!  It  has  been  done,  and  with  a  stupidity  that  can  astound  the  most  experienced.  -Saw  the  shadow  ofa  banker  play-  ing  with  his  pencil  as  he  stared  vacant-  ly  across  the  banking  floor,  this  bank-  er's  shadow  commingling  with  the  shadow  of  the  next  banker  playing  with  his  pencil-  -Not  having  experienced  in  his  bones  the  new,  down-to-earth,  Chinese  cinnamon  music,  which  unwraps  the  sky.  -The  rest  of  the  tale  presents  no  real  difficulties.  -The  rest  of  the  tale  presents  no  real  difficulties.  The  thing  to  keep  your  eye  on  is  less  time,  more  exciting.  Re-  member  that.  -As  if  it  were  late,  late,  and  we  were  ready  to  pull  on  our  red-and-  gold  striped  nightshirts.  -Cup  of  tea  before  retiring.  -Cup  of  tea  before  retiring.  -Dreams  next.  -We  can  deal  with  that.  -Remembering  that  the  new  music  will  be  there  tomorrow  and  tomorrow  and  tomorrow.  -There  is  always  a  new  music.  -Thank  God.  -P  ull  a  few  hairs  out  of  your  nose  poised  before  the  mirror.  -Routine  maintenance,  nothing  to  write  home  about.  "