 b"WHEN  I  was  twelve  years  old,  my  father  was  tall  and  awe-  some.  I  can  see  him  walking  across  the  parade  ground  behind  our  quarters.  The  wind  blew  snow  into  the  folds  of  his  coat  and  made  the  hem  swoop  around  his  legs.  He  did  not  lower  his  head,  he  did  not  jam  his  hands  into  the  pockets.  He  was  com-  ing  home  along  a  diagonal  that  would  cut  the  parade  ground  into  perfect  tri-  angles,  and  he  was  not  going  to  be  stopped  by  any  snowstorm.  I  stood  at  the  kitchen  door  and  watched  him  through  a  hole  I  had  rubbed  in  the  steamy  glass.  My  grandmother  and  mother  fidg-  eted  with  pans  of  food  that  had  been  kept  warm  too  long,  It  was  one  o'clock  on  Saturday  and  he  had  been  expected  home  at  noon.  &quot;You  want  to  know  what  this  chick-  en  lookslike?&quot;  said  my  grandmother.  &quot;It  looks  like  it  died  last  year.&quot;  My  mother  looked  into  the  pan  but  didn't  say  anything.  My  grandmother  believed  my  moth-  er  should  have  married  a  minister,  not  an  Army  officer.  Once  my  mother  had  gone  out  with  a  minister,  and  now  he  was  on  the  radio  every  Sunday  in  [REDACTED].  My  grandmother  thought  my  father  had  misrepresented  himself  as  a  religious  man.  'There  was  a  story  my  mother  told  about  their  first  date.  They  went  to  a  restaurant  and  my  father  told  her  that  he  was  going  to  have  twelve  sons  and  name  them  Peter,  James,  John,  et  cetera.  &quot;And  I  thought,  Twelve  sons!&quot;  said  my  moth-  er.  &quot;Boy,  do  I  pity  your  poor  wife.&quot;  My  mother  had  two  miscarriages  and  then  she  had  me.  My  father  named  me  Gemma,  which  my  grandmother  believed  was  not  even  a  Christian  name.  &quot;You  want  to  know  what  this  squash  looks  like?&quot;  said  my  grand-  mother.  &quot;It'll  be  fine,&quot;  said  my  mother.  Just  then  the  wind  gusted  on  the  parade  ground,  and  my  father  veered  to  the  left.  He  stopped  and  looked  up.  How  is  it  possible  you  have  caught  me  off  guard,  he  seemed  to  ask.  Exactly  where  have  I  miscalculated  the  veloc-  ities,  how  have  I  misjudged  the  vec-  tors?  &quot;It  looks  like  somebody  peed  in  it,&quot;  my  grandmother  said.  &quot;TZ  EEP  your  voice  low,&quot;  my  father  told  me  that  day  as  we  ate  the  ruined  squash  and  chicken,  &quot;Keep  your  voice  low  and  you  can  win  any  point.&quot;  We  were  living  in  [REDACTED]  Niagara,  a  litle  Army  post  at  the  juncture  of  the  Niagara  River  and  Lake  Ontario.  We  had  been  there  through  the  fall  and  into  the  winter,  as  my  father,  who  was  second  in  command,  waited  for  his  next  promotion.  It  began  to  snow  in  October.  The  arctic  winds  swept  across  the  lake  from  [REDACTED]  and  shook  the  windows  of  our  house.  Snow  drift-  ed  across  the  parade  ground,  and  floes  of  ice  piled  up  against  each  other  in  the  river,  so  that  if  a  person  were  coura-  geous  enough,  or  foolhardy  enough,  and  also  lucky,  he  could  walk  the  mile  across  the  river  to  [REDACTED].  &quot;And  always  speak  in  sentences,&quot;  he  told  me.  &quot;You  have  developed  a  jun-  ior-high  habit  of  speaking  in  fragments.  Learn  to  come  to  a  full  stop  when  you  complete  an  idea.  Use  semicolons  and  periods  in  your  speech.&quot;  My  mother  put  down  her  fork  and  knife.  Her  hands  were  so  thin  and  light  they  seemed  topass  through  the  table  as  she  dropped  them  in  her  lap.  Zachary,  perhaps  we  could  save  some  of  the  lecture  for  dessert?&quot;  she  said.  My  grandmother  leaned  back  in-  to  her  own  heaviness.  &quot;The  poor  kid  never  gets  to  eat  a  hot  meal,&quot;  she  said.  She  was  referring  to  the  rule  that  said  I  could  not  cut  my  food  or  eat  while  I  was  speaking  or  being  spoken  to,  and  I  was  always  being  spoken  to.  My  father  used  mealtimes  to  lecture  on  the  me-  chanics  of  life,  the  how-tos  of  a  civilized  world.  Normally,  I  was  receptive  to  his  advice,  but  that  day  I  was  angry  with  him.  &quot;You  know,  Dad,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;I  don't  think  my  friends  are  going  to  notice  a  missing  semicolon.&quot;  I  thought  he  would  give  me  a  fierce  look,  but  instead  he  winked.  &quot;And  don't  say  'you  know,&quot;  &quot;  he  said.  He  never  said  &quot;you  know,&quot;  never  spoke  in  fragments,  never  slurred  his  speech,  even  years  later  when  he  had  just  put  away  a  fifth  of  Scotch  and  was  trying  to  describe  the  Eskimo  custom  of  chewing  up  the  meat  before  it  was  given  to  the  elders,  who  had  no  teeth.  He  spoke  with  such  calculation  and  precision  that  his  sentences  hung  over  us  like  high  vaulted  ceilings,  or  rolled  across  the  table  like  ornaments  sculp-  tured  from  stone.  It  was  a  huge  cathe-  dral  of  a  voice,  full  of  volume  and  complexity.  HE  taught  me  the  alphabet.  Able,  Baker,  Charlie,  Dog.  It  was  the  alphabet  the  military  used  to  keep  &quot;B&quot;s  separate  from  &quot;V's  and  &quot;I's  separate  from  &quot;Y&quot;s.  He  liked  the  music  of  it,  the  way  it  sounded  on  his  fine  voice.  I  was  four  years  old  and  my  grand-  mother  had  not  come  to  live  with  us  yet.  We  were  stationed  in  [REDACTED],  and  living  in  a  house  the  Army  had  built  on  squat  stilts  to  protect  us  from  the  insects.  There  was  a  typhoon  sweeping  inland,  and  we  could  hear  the  hoarse  sound  of  metal  scraping  across  the  Army's  paved  street.  It  was  the  corrugated  roof  of  the  house  next  door,  &quot;Don't  you  think  it's  time  we  went  under  the  house?&quot;  my  mother  said.  She  was  sitting  on  a  duffelbag  that  con-  tained  our  tarps  and  food  rations.  The  house  had  a  loose  plank  in  the  living-  room  floor,  so  that  if  the  roof  blew  away,  or  the  walls  caved  in,  we  could  escape  through  the  opening  and  sit  in  the  low  space  between  the  reinforced  floor  and  the  ground  until  the  military  rescue  bus  came.  My  father  looked  at  me  and  said,  &quot;Able,  Baker,  Charlie,  Dog.  Can  you  say  it,  Gemma?&quot;  I  looked  up  at  the  dark  slope  of  our  own  metal  roof.  &quot;Can  you  say  it?&quot;  &quot;Able,  Baker,  Charlie,  Dog,&quot;  I  said.  The  metal  rumbled  on  the  road  out-  side.  My  mother  lifted  the  plank.  &quot;We  will  be  all  right,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Easy,  Fox,  George,  How.&quot;  &quot;Anybody  want  to  join  [REDACTED];  said  my  mother.  &quot;Easy,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Rachel,  please  put  that  plank  back.&quot;  &quot;Easy,  Fox,  George,  How,&quot;  I  said.  My  mother  replaced  the  plank  and  sat  on  the  floor  beside  me.  The  storm  grew  louder,  the  rain  fell  against  the  roof  like  handfuls  of  gravel.  &quot;Item,  Jig,  King.&quot;  My  father's  voice  grew  lower,  fuller.  We  sat  under  the  sound  of  it  and  felt  safe.  &quot;Love,  Mike,  Nan.&quot;  " b"But  then  we  heard  another  sound-some-  thing  that  went  whep-  whap,  softly,  between  the  gusts  of  rain.  We  tilted  our  heads  toward  the  shuttered  win-  dows.  &quot;Well,&quot;  said  my  father,  standing  up  to  stretch.  &quot;I  think  we  are  losing  a  board  or  two  off  the  side  of  the  house.&quot;  &quot;Where  are  you  go-  ing?&quot;  said  my  mother.  &quot;Just  where  do  you  think  you're  going?&quot;  He  put  on  his  rain  slicker  and  went  into  the  next  room.  When  he  returned,  he  was  carrying  a  bucket  of  nails  and  a  hammer.  &quot;Obviously,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;I  am  going  fishing.&quot;  E  moved  back  to  the  [REDACTED]  when  I  was  six,  and  he  taught  me  how  to  play  parcheesi,  checkers,  chess,  cribbage,  domi-  noes,  and  twenty  ques-  tions.  &quot;When  you  lose,&quot;  he  told  me,  &quot;don't  cry.  When  you  win,  don't  gloat.&quot;  He  taught  me  how  to  plant  tomatoes  and  load  a  shotgun  shell.  He  showed  me  how  to  gut  a  dove,  turning  it  inside  out  as  the  Europeans  do,  using  the  flexible  breastbone  for  a  pivot.  He  read  a  great  many  books  and  never  forgot  a  fact  or  a  technical  description.  He  ex-  plained  the  principles  of  crop  rotation  and  the  flying  buttress.  He  discussed  the  Defenestration  of  [REDACTED].  When  I  was  in  elementary  school,  he  was  sent  abroad  twice  on  year-long  tours-once  to  [REDACTED]  and  once  to  [REDACTED],  both  strategic  outposts  for  [REDACTED]'s  Early  Warning  System.  I  wanted  to,  but  I  could  not  write  him  letters.  His  came  to  me  every  week,  but  without  the  rhythms  of  his  voice  the  words  seemed  pale  and  flat,  like  the  transparent  shapes  of  cells  under  a  microscope.  He  did  not  write  about  his  work,  because  his  work  was  secret.  He  did  notsend  advice,  because  that  he  left  to  my  mother  and  grandmother  in  his  absence.  He  wrote  about  small  things-  the  smooth  white  rocks  he  found  on  a  mountainside  in  [REDACTED],  the  first  fresh  egg  he  ate  in  [REDACTED].  When  I  re-  read  the  letters  after  he  died,  I  was  struck  by  their  grace  and  invention.  But  when  I  read  them  as  a  child,  I  looked  through  the  words-&quot;eggs  ...  shipment  .  ..  frozen&quot;-and  there  was  nothing  on  the  other  side  but  the  great  vacuum  of  his  missing  voice.  &quot;I  can't  think  of  anything  to  say,&quot;  Itold  my  mother  the  first  time  she  urged  me  to  write  to  him.  He  had  already  been  in  [REDACTED]  for  three  months.  She  stood  behind  me  at  the  heavy  library  table  and  smoothed  my  hair,  touched  my  shoulders.  &quot;'Tell  him  about  your  tap  lessons,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;'Tell  him  about  ballet.&quot;  &quot;Dear  Dad,&quot;  I  wrote.  &quot;I  am  tak-  ing  tap  lessons.  I  am  also  taking  ballet.&quot;  I  tried  to  imagine  what  he  looked  like.  I  tried  to  put  a  face  before  my  face,  but  it  was  gray  and  featureless,  like  the  face  of  a  statue  worn  flat  by  wind  and  rain.  &quot;And  I  hope  you  have  a  Happy  Birthday  next  month,&quot;  I  concluded,  hoping  to  evade  the  necessity  of  writing  him  again  in  three  weeks.  HE  autumn  I  turned  twelve,  we  moved  to  [REDACTED]  Niagara,  which  was  the  administrative  base  for  the  mis-  sile  sites  strung  along  the  Canadian  border  between  Lake  Erie  and  Lake  Ontario.  It  was  a  handsome  post,  full  of  oak  trees,  brick  buildings,  and  his-tory.  The  French  had  taken  the  land  from  the  Indians  and  built  the  original  fort.  The  British  took  the  fort  from  the  French,  and  the  556e6974656420537461746573ns  took  it  from  the  British.  My  father  recounted  the  battles  for  us  as  we  drove  there  along  the  wide  sweep  of  the  Niagara  River,  past  apple  orchards  and  thick  pastures.  My  grandmother  sat  in  the  back  seat  and  made  a  note  of  each  red  convertible  that  passed,  I  was  sup-  posed  to  be  counting  the  white  ones.  When  we  drove  through  the  gate  and  saw  the  post  for  the  first  time-the  ex-  panses  of  clipped  grass,  the  tall  trees,  the  row  of  Colonial  houses  overlooking  the  river-my  grandmother  put  down  her  tablet  and  said,  &quot;'This  is  some  post.&quot;  She  looked  at  my  father  admiringly,  the  first  indication  she  had  ever  given  that  he  might  be  a  good  match  for  my  mother  after  all.  She  asked  to  be  tak-  en  to  the  far  end  of  the  post,  where  the  Old  [REDACTED]  was.  It  sat  on  a  point  of  land  at  the  juncture  of  the  lake  and  river,  and  looked  appropriately  warlike,  with  its  moat  and  tiny  gun  windows,  but  it  was  surprisingly  small-a  simple  square  of  yellow  stone.  &quot;Is  this  all  there  is?&quot;  I  said  as  my  grandmother  and  I  posed  for  pictures  on  the  drawbridge  near  two  soldiers  dressed  in  Revolu-  " b"tionary  War  costumes.  It  was  hard  to  imagine  that  chunks  of  a  vast  continent  had  been  won  and  lost  within  the  con-  fines  of  a  fortress  hardly  bigger  than  Sleeping  Beauty's  castle  at  [REDACTED],  Later,  as  we  drove  back  along  the  river,  my  father  said  in  his  aphoristic  way,  &quot;Sometimes  the  biggest  battles  are  the  smallest  ones.&quot;  The  week  after  we  settled  in  our  quarters,  we  made  the  obligatory  trip  to  the  Falls.  It  was  a  sultry  day-In-  dian  summer-and  our  eyes  began  to  water  as  we  neared  the  chemical  fac-  tories  that  surround  the  city  of  Niaga-  ra  Falls  We  stopped  for  iced  tea  and  my  father  explained  how  the  glaciers  had  formed  the  escarpment  through  which  the  Falls  had  cut  a  deep  gorge.  &quot;Escarpment&quot;  -that  was  the  term  he  used,  instead  of  &quot;cliff.&quot;  It  skidded  along  the  roof  of  his  mouth  and  en-  tered  the  conversation  with  a  soft  explo-  sion.  We  went  to  the  Niagara  Falls  Mu-  seum  and  examined  the  containers  peo-  ple  had  used  successfully  to  go  over  the  Falls  early  in  the  century,  when  there  was  a  thousand-dollar  prize  given  to  survivors.  Two  were  wooden  barrels  strapped  with  metal  bands.  One  was  a  giant  rubber  ball  reinforced  with  a  steel  cage.  A  fourth  was  a  long  steel  cap-  sule.  On  the  walls  were  photographs  of  each  survivor  and  plaques  explaining  who  had  been  injured  and  how.  The  steel  capsule  was  used  by  a  man  who  had  broken  almost  every  bone  in  his  body.  The  plaque  said  that  he  was  in  the  hospital  for  twenty-three  weeks  and  then  took  his  capsule  around  the  world  on  a  speaking  tour.  One  day  when  he  was  in  New  Zealand,  he  slipped  on  an  orange  peel,  broke  his  leg,  and  later  died  of  complications.  We  went  next  to  Goat  Island  and  stood  on  the  open  bank  to  watch  the  leap  and  dive  of  the  white  water.  My  mother  held  her  handbag  close  to  her  breasts.  She  had  a  habit  of  always  hold-  ing  things  this  way-a  stackof  dinner  plates,  the  dish  towel,  some  mail  she  had  brought  in  from  the  porch;  she  hunched  over  slightly,  so  that  her  body  seemed  at  once  to  be  protective  and  protected.  &quot;I  don't  like  the  river,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  think  it  wants  to  hypnotize  you.&quot;  My  father  put  his  hands  in  his  pockets  to  show  how  at  ease  he  was,  and  my  grandmother  went  off  to  buy  an  ice-cream  cone.  At  the  observation  point,  we  stood  at  a  metal  fence  and  looked  into  the  frotl  ing  water  at  the  bottom  of  the  gorge.  We  watched  bits  and  pieces  of  rainbows  appear  and  vanish  in  the  sun-  light  that  was  refracted  off  the  water  through  the  mist.  My  father  pointed  to  ablack  shape  in  the  rapids  above  the  Horseshoe  Falls,  &quot;That's  a  river barge,&quot;  he  said.  He  lowered  his  voice  so  that  he  could  be  heard  under  the  roar  of  the  water.  &quot;A  long  time  ago,  there  were  two  men  standing  on  that  barge  waiting  to  see  whether  in  the  next  moment  of  their  lives  they  would  go  over.&quot;  He  told  us  the  storyof  the  barge  then-how  it  had  broken  loose  from  a  tug  near  Buffalo  and  floated  down-  river,  gathering  speed.  The  two  men  tore  at  the  air,  waved  and  shouted  to  people  on  shore,  but  the  barge  entered  the  rapids.  They  bumped  around  over  the  rocks,  and  the  white  water  rose  in  the  air,  One  man-&quot;He  was  the  think-  ing  man,&quot;  said  my  father-thought  they  might  be  able  to  wedge  the  barge  among  the  rocks  if  they  allowed  the  hull  to  fill  with  water.  They  came  closer  to  the  Falls-four  hundred  yards,  three  hundred-before  the  barge  jerked  broadside  and  stopped.  They  were  there  all  afternoon  and  night,  listening  to  the  sound  of  the  water  pounding  into  the  boulders  at  the  bottom  of  the  gorge.  The  next  morning,  they  were  rescued,  and  one  of  the  men,  the  think-  ing  man,  told  the  newspapers  that  he  had  spent  the  night  playing  poker  in  his  head,  He  played  all  the  hands,  and  he  bluffed  himself.  He  drew  to  inside  straights,.  If  the  barge  had  torn  loose  from  the  rocks  in  the  night,  he  was  go-  ing  to  go  over  the  Falls  saying,  &quot;Five-  card  draw,  jacks  or  better  to  open.&quot;  The  other  man  had  sat  on  the  barge,  his  arms  clasped  around  his  knees,  and  watched  the  mist  blow  back  from  the  edge  of  the  Falls  in  the  moonlight,.  He  could  not  speak.  &quot;The  scream  of  the  water  entered  his  body,&quot;  said  my  father.  He  paused  to  let  us  think  about  that.  &quot;Well,  what  does  that  mean?&quot;  my  grandmother  said  at  last.  My  father  rested  his  arms  on  the  fence  and  gazed  pleasantly  at  the  Falls,  &quot;He  went  in-  sane.&quot;  The  river  fascinated  me.  I  often  stood  be-  tween  the  yellow  cur-  tains  of  my  bedroom  and  looked  down  upon  it  and  thought  about  how  deep  and  swift  it  was,  how  black  under  " b"the  glittering  surface.  The  newspaper  carried  stories  about  people  who  jumped  over  the  Falls,  fourteen  miles  upriv-  er  from  our  house.  I  thought  of  their  bodies  pushed  along  the  soft  silt  of  the  bottom,  tumbling  silently,  huddled  in  upon  themselves  like  fetuses-  jilted  brides,  unemployed  fac-  tory  workers,  old  people  who  did  not  want  to  go  to  rest  homes,  teen-agers  who  got  bad  grades,  young  women  who  fell  in  love  with  mar-  ried  men,.  They  floated  invis-  ibly  past  my  bedroom  window,  out  into  the  lake.  HAT  winter,  I  thought  I  was  going  to  die.  I  thought  I  had  cancer  of  the  breasts,  My  mother  had  ex-  plained  to  me  about  menstrua-  tion,  she  had  given  me  a  book  about  the  reproductive  systems  of  men  and  women,  but  she  had  not  told  me  about  breasts  and  how  they  begin  as  invisible  lumpswhich  become  tender  and  sore.  I  thought  the  soreness  had  begun  in  a  Phys.  Ed.  class  one  day  in  December  when  I  was  hit  in  the  chest  with  a  basket-  ball.  I  didn't  worry  about  it,  and  it  went  away  by  New  Year's.  In  January,  I  found  a  pamphlet  at  the  bus  stop.  I  was  stamping  my  feet  in  the  cold,  looking  down  at  my  boots,  when  I  saw  the  &quot;CANCER:  SEVEN  WARNING  SIGNALS.&quot;  When  I  got  home,  I  went  into  the  bathroom  and  undressed.  I  examined  myself  for  en-  larged  moles  and  small  wounds  that  wouldn't  heal.  I  was  systematic.  I  sat  on  the  edge  of  the  tub  with  the  pam-  phlet  by  my  side  and  began  with  my  toenails,  looking  under  the  tips  of  them.  I  felt  my  soles,  arches,  ankles.  I  worked  my  way  up  my  body  and  then  I  felt  the  soreness  again,  around  both  nipples.  At  dinner  that  night  I  didn't  say  anything  all  through  the  meal.  In  bed  I  slept  on  my  back,  with  my  arms  stiff  against  my  sides.  The  next  Saturday  was  the  day  my  father  came  home  late  for  lunch.  The  squash  sat  on  the  back  of  the  stove  and  turned  to  ochre  soup.  The  chicken  fell  away  from  the  bones.  After  lunch  he  went  into  the  living  room  and  drank  Scotch  and  read  a  book.  When  I  came  down  for  supper,  he  was  still  sitting  there,  and  he  told  my  mother  he  would  eat  later.  My  grandmother,  my  moth-er,  and  I  ate  silently  at  the  kitchen  table.  I  took  a  long  bath.I  scrubbed  my  chest  hard.  I  went  straight  to  my  bedroom,  and  after  a  while  my  mother  came  upstairs  and  said,  &quot;What's  wrong?&quot;  I  didn'tsay  anything.  She  stood  in  front  of  me  with  her  hands  clasped  in  front  of  her.  She  seemed  to  lean  toward  her  own  hands.  &quot;But  you've  been  acting,  you  know&quot;-  and  here  she  laughed  self-consciously,  as  she  used  the  forbidden  phrase-  &quot;you  know,  you've  been  acting  differ-  ent.  You  were  so  quiet  today.&quot;  I  went  to  my  chest  of  drawers  and  took  the  pamphlet  out  from  under  a  stack  of  folded  underpants  and  gave  it  to  her.  &quot;What's  this?&quot;  &quot;I  think  I  have  No.  4,&quot;  I  said.  She  must  have  known  immediately  what  the  problem  was,  but  she  didn't  smile.  She  asked  me  to  raise  my  night-  gown  and  she  examined  my  chest,  pressing  firmly,  as  if  she  were  a  doctor.  I  told  her  about  the  soreness.  &quot;Here?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;And  here?  What  about  here,  too?&quot;  She  told  me  I  was  beginning  to  &quot;develop.&quot;  I  knew  what  she  meant,  but  I  wanted  her  to  be  precise.  &quot;You're  getting  breasts,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;But  I  don't  see  anything.&quot;  &quot;You  will.&quot;  &quot;You  never  told  me  it  would  hurt.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  dear.  I  just  forgot.  When  you're  grown  up  you  just  forget  what  it  was  like.&quot;  I  asked  her  whether,  just  to  be  safe,  I  could  see  a  doctor.  She  said  that  of  course  I  could,  and  I  felt  better,  as  if  I  had  had  a  disease  and  already  been  cured.  As  she  was  leaving  the  room,  I  said,  &quot;Do  you  think  I  need  a  bra?&quot;  She  smiled.  I  went  to  sleep  watching  the  snow  fall  past  the  window.  I  had  my  hands  cupped  over  my  new  breasts.  When  I  awoke,  I  did  not  recognize  the  window.  The  snow  had  stopped  and  moonlight  slanted  through  the  glass.  I  could  not  make  out  the  words,  but  I  heard  my  father's  voice  filling  up  the  house.  I  tiptoed  down  the  back  staircase  that  led  to  the  kitchen  and  " b"stood  in  the  slice  of  shadow  near  the  doorjamb.  My  grandmother  was  tell-  ing  my  mother  to  pack  her  bags.  He  was  a  degenerate,  she  said-she  had  al-  ways  seen  that  in  him.  My  mother  said,  &quot;Why,  Zachary,  why  are  you  doing  this?&quot;  &quot;Just  go  pack  your  bags,&quot;  my  grandmother  said.  &quot;T'll  getthe  child.&quot;  My  father  said  conversationally,  tensely,  &quot;Do  I  have  to  break  your  arms?&quot;  I  leaned  into  the  light.  He  was  holding  on  to  a  bottle  of  Scotch  with  one  hand,  and  my  mother  was  trying  to  pull  it  away  with  both  of  hers,  He  jerked  his  arm  back  and  forth,  so  that  she  was  drawn  into  a  little  dance,  back  and  forth  acrossthe  linoleum  in  front  of  him.  &quot;The  Lord  knows  the  way  of  right-  eousness,&quot;  said  my  grandmother.  &quot;Please,&quot;  said  my  mother.  &quot;Please,  please.&quot;  &quot;And  the  way  of  the  ungodly  shall  perish,&quot;  said  my  grandmother.  &quot;Whose  house  is  this?&quot;  said  my  fa-  ther.  His  voice  exploded.  He  snapped  his  arm  back,  trying  to  take  the  bottle  from  my  mother  in  one  powerful  ges-  ture,It  smashed  against  the  wall,  and  I  stepped  into  the  kitchen.  The  white  light  from  the  ceiling  fixture  burned  acrossthe  smooth  surfaces  of  the  re-  frigerator,  the  stove,  the  white  Formica  counter  tops.  It  was  as  if  an  atom  had  been  smashed  somewhere  and  a  wave  ofradiation  was  rolling  through  the  kitchen.  I  looked  him  in  the  eye  and  waited  for  him  to  speak.  I  sensed  my  motherand  grandmother  on  either  side  of  me,  in  petrified  postures.  At  last,  he  said,  &quot;Well.&quot;  His  voice  cracked.  The  word  split  in  two.  &quot;Wel-el.&quot;  He  said  it  again.  His  face  took  on  a  flatness.  &quot;I  am  going  back  to  bed,&quot;  Isaid.  I  went  up  the  narrow  steps,  and  he  fol-  lowed  me.  My  mother  and  grand-  mother  came  along  behind,  whispering.  He  tucked  in  the  covers,  and  sat  on  the  edge  of  the  bed,  watching  me.  My  mother  and  grandmother  stood  stiff  against  the  door,  &quot;I  am  sorry  I  woke  you  up,&quot;  he  said  finally,  and  his  voice  was  deep  and  soothing.  The  two  wom-  en  watched  him  go  down  the  hall,  and  when  I  heard  his  steps  on  the  front  staircase  I  rolled  over  and  put  my  face  in  thepillow.  I  heard  them  turn  off  the  I'ghts  and  say  good  night  to  me.  I  heard  them  go  to  their  bedrooms.  I  lay  there  for  a  long  time,  listening  for  a  sound  downstairs,  and  then  it  came-the  sound  ofthe  front  door  closing.  I  went  downstairs  and  put  on  my  hat,  coat,  boots.  I  followed  his  foot-  steps  in  the  snow,  down  the  front  walk and  across  the  road  to  the  riverbank.  He  did  not  seem  surprised  to  see  me  next  to  him.  We  stood  side  by  side,  hands  in  our  pockets,  breathing  frost  intothe  air.  The  river  was  filled  from  shore  to  shore  with  white  heaps  of  ice,  which  cast  blue  shadows  in  the  moon-  light.  &quot;''This  is  the  edge  of  [REDACTED],&quot;  he  said,  in  a  tone  that  seemed  to  answer  a  question  I  had  just  asked,  There  was  a  creak  and  crunch  of  ice  as  two  floes  below  us  scraped  each  other  and  jammed  against  the  bank.  &quot;You  knew  all  week,  didn't  you?  Your  mother  and  your  grandmother  didn't  know,  but  I  knew  that  you  could  be  counted  on  to  know.&quot;  I  hadn't  known  until  just  then,  but  I  guessed  the  unspeakable  thing-that  his  career  was  falling  apart-and  I  knew.  I  nodded.  Years  later,  my  moth-  er  told  me  what  she  had  learned  about  the  incident,  not  from  him  but  from  another  Army  wife,  He  had  called  a  general  a  son  of  a  bitch.  That  was  all.  I  never  knew  what  the  issue  was  or  whether  he  had  been  right  or  wrong.  Whether  the  defense  of  the  United  [REDACTED]  of  [REDACTED]  had  been  at  stake,  or  merely  the  pot  in  a  card  game.  I  didn't  " b"even  know  whether  he  had  called  the  general  a  son  of  a  bitch  to  his  face  or  simply  been  overheard  in  an  unguard-  ed  moment.  I  only  knew  that  he  had  been  given  a  &quot;7&quot;  instead  of  a  &quot;9&quot;  on  his  Efficiency  Report  and  then  passed  over  for  promotion.  But  that  night  I  nodded,  not  knowing  the  cause  but  knowing  the  consequences,  as  we  stood  on  the  riverbank  above  the  moonlit  ice.  &quot;I  am  looking  at  that  thin  beautiful  line  of  [REDACTED],&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  think  I  will  go  for  a  walk.&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  I  said.  I  said  it  again.  &quot;No.&quot;  I  wanted  to  remember  later  thatI  had  told  him  not  to  go.  &quot;How  long  do  you  think  it  would  take  to  go  over  and  back?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'T  wo  hours.&quot;  He  rocked  back  and  forth  in  his  boots,  looked  up  at  the  moon,  then  down  at  the  river.  I  did  not  say  any-  thing.  He  started  down  the  bank,  sideways,  taking  long  graceful  sliding  steps,  whichthrew  little  puffs  of  snow  in  the  air.  He  took  his  hands  from  his  pock-  ets  and  hopped  from  the  bank  to  the  ice.  He  tested  his  weight  against  the  weight  of  the  ice,  flexing  his  knees.  I  watched  him  walk  a  few  yards  from  the  shore  and  then  I  saw  him  rise  in  the  air,  his  long  legs  scissoring  the  moonlight,  as  he  crossed  from  the  edge  of  one  floe  to  the  next.  He  turned  and  waved  to  me,  one  hand  making  a  slow  arc.  I  could  have  said  anything.  I  could  have  said  &quot;Come  back&quot;  or  &quot;I  love  you.&quot;  Instead,  Icalled  after  him,  &quot;Be  sure  and  write!&quot;  'The  last  thing  I  heard,  long  after  I  had  lost  sight  of  him  far  out  on  the  river,  was  the  sound  of  his  laugh  splitting  the  cold  air.  IN  the  spring  he  resigned  his  com-  mission  and  we  went  back  to  [REDACTED].  He  used  his  savings  to  invest  in  achain  of  hardware  stores  with  my  uncle.  My  uncle  arranged  the  contracts  with  builders  and  plumbers,  and  supervised  the  employees.  My  father  controlled  the  inventory  and  handled  the  books.  He  had  been  a  logistics  officer,  and  all  the  skills  he  might  have  used  in  super-  vising  the  movement  of  land,  air,  and  sea  cargoes,  or  in  calculating  the  dis-  position  ofseveral  billion  dollars'  worth  of  military  supplies,  were  instead  brought  to  bear  on  the  deployment  of  nuts  and  bolts,  plumbers'  joints  and  nipples,  No.  2  pine,  Con-Tact  pa-  per,  acrylic  paint,  caulking  guns,  and  rubber  dishpans.  He  learned  a  new  vocabulary-traffic  builders,  margins,  end-cap  displays,  perfboard  merchan-  disers,  seasonal  impulse  items-and  spoke  it  with  the  ostentation  and  faint  amusement  of  a  manwho  has  just  mastered  a  foreign  language.  &quot;But  what  Ireally  want  to  know,  Mr.  Jenkins,&quot;  I  heard  him  tell  a  man  on  the  telephone  one  day,  &quot;is  why  you  think  the  Triple  Gripper  Vegetable  Ripper  would  make  a  good  loss-leader  item  in  midwinter.&quot;  He  had  been  in  the  hardlines  industry,  as  it  was  called,  for  six  months,  and  I  was  making  my  first  visit  to  his  office,  and  then  only  because  my  mother  had  sent  me  there  on  the  pretext  of  taking  him  a  mid-  morning  snack  during  a  busy  Saturday.  I  was  reluctant  to  confront  him  in  his  civilian  role,  afraid  I  would  find  him  somehow  diminished.  In  fact,  although  helooked  incongruous  among  the  reds,  yellows,  and  blues  which  the  previous  owner  had  used  to  decorate  the  office,  he  sounded  much  like  the  man  who  had  taught  me  to  speak  in  complete  sentences.  &quot;Mr.  Jenkins,I  am  not  asking  for  a  discourse  on  coleslaw.&quot;  When  he  hung  up,  he  winked  at  me  and  said,  &quot;Your  father  is  about  to  become  the  emperor  of  the  building  and  housewares  trade  in  Killbuck,  [REDACTED].&quot;  I  nodded  and  took  a  seat  in  a  red-  and-blue  chair.  Then  he  looked  at  his  hands  spread  upon  the  spotless  ink  blotter  and  said,  &quot;Of  course,  you  know  that  I  do  not  give  a  damn  about  the  Triple  Gripper  Vegetable  Ripper.&quot;  I  had  skipped  a  grade  and  entered  " b"high  school.  I  saw  less  and  less  of  him,  because  I  ate  dinner  early,  so  that  I  could  go  to  play  rehearsals,  basketball  games,  dances.  In  the  evenings  he  sat  in  a  green  chair  and  smoked  cigarettes,  drank  Scotch,  read  books-the  same  kinds  of  books,  year  after  year.  They  were  all  about  Eskimos  and  Arctic  explorations-an  interest  he  had  de-  veloped  during  his  tour  in  [REDACTED].  Sometimes,  when  I  came  in  late  and  was  in  the  kitchen  making  a  snack,  I  watched  him  through  the  doorway.  Often  he  looked  away  from  the  book  and  gazed  toward  the  window.  He  would  strike  a  match  and  let  it  burn  to  his  thumb  and  fingertip,  then  wave  it  out.  He  would  raise  the  glass  but  not  drink  from  it.  I  think  he  must  have  imagined  himself  to  be  in  the  Arctic  during  those  moments,  a  warrior  track-  ing  across  the  ice  for  bear  or  seal.  Sometimes  he  was  waiting  for  me  to  join  him.  He  wanted  to  tell  me  about  the  techniques  the  Eskimos  had  de-  veloped  for  survival,  the  way  they  stitched  up  skins  to  make  them  water-  tight  vessels.  He  became  obsessive  on  the  subject  of  meat.  The  Eskimo  diet  was  nearly  all  protein.  &quot;Eat  meat,&quot;  he     said.  Two  professors  at  Columbia  had  tested  the  value  of  the  Eskimo  diet  by  eating  nothing  but  caribou  for  a  year  and  claimed  they  were  healthier  at  the  end  of  the  experiment  than  they  had  been  before.  Later,  when  I  went  to  college,  he  developed  the  habit  of  calling  me  long  distance  when  my  mother  and  grand-  mother  had  gone  to  bed  and  he  was  alone  downstairs  with  a  drink.  &quot;Are  you  getting  enough  protein?&quot;  he  asked  me  once  at  three  in  the  morning.  It  was  against  dorm  rules  to  put  through  calls  after  midnight  except  in  cases  of  emergency,  but  his  deep,  commanding  voice  was  so  authoritative  (&quot;'This  is  Gemma  Jackson's  father,  and  I  must  speak  with  her  immediately&quot;  )  that  it  was  for  some  time  believed  on  my  cor-  ridor  that  the  people  in  my  family  were  either  accident-prone  or  suffering  from  long  terminal  illnesses.  HE  died  the  summer  I  received  my  master's  degree.  I  had  accepted  a  teaching  position  at  a  high  school  in  [REDACTED],  and  I  went  home  for  a  month  before  school  began.  He  was  over-  weight  and  short  of  breath,.  He  drank  too  much,  smoked  too  many  cigarettes.  The  doctor  told  him  to  stop,  my  mother  told  him,  my  grandmother  told  him.  My  grandmother  was  upstairs  watching  television  and  my  mother  and  I  were  sitting  on  the  front  porch.  He  was  asleep  in  the  green  chair,  with  a  book  in  his  lap.  I  left  the  porch  to  go  to  the  kitchen  to  make  a  sandwich,  and  as  I  passed  by  the  chair  I  heard  him  say,  &quot;Abhhh.  Ahhhhhh.&quot;  I  saw  his  fist  rise  to  his  chest.I  saw  his  eyes  open  and  dilate  in  the  lamplight.  I  knelt  beside  him.  &quot;Are  you  O.K.?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Are  you  dreaming?&quot;  We  buried  him  in  a  small  cemetery  near  the  farm  where  he  was  born.  In  the  eulogy  he  was  remembered  for  hav-  ing  survived  the  first  wave  of  the  in-  vasion  of  Normandy.  He  was  admired  for  having  been  the  proprietor  of  a  chain  of  excellent  hardware  stores,  &quot;He  didn't  have  to  do  this,&quot;  my  mother  said  after  the  funeral,  &quot;He  did  thisto  himself.&quot;  &quot;He  was  a  good  man,&quot;  said  my  grandmother,  &quot;He  put  a  nice  roof  over  our  heads.  He  sent  us  to  Europe  twice.&quot;  Afterward  I  went  alone  to  the  ceme-  tery.  I  knelt  beside  the  heaps  of  wilt-  ing  flowers-mostly  roses  and  gladio-  las,  and  one  wreath  of  red,  white,  and  blue  carnations.  Above  me,  the  maple  pods  spun  through  the  sunlight  like  wings,  and  in  the  distance  the  corn  trumpeted  green  across  the  hillsides.  I  touched  the  loose  black  soil  at  the  edge  of  the  flowers.  Able,  Baker,  Charlie,  Dog.  I  could  remember  the  beginning  of  the  alphabet,  up  through  Mike  and  Nan,.  I  could  remember  the  end.  X-Ray,  Yoke,  Zebra.  I  was  his  only  child,  and  he  taught  me  what  he  knew.  I  wept  then,  but  not  because  he  had  gone  back  to  [REDACTED]  to  read  about  the  Eskimos  and  sell  the  artifacts  of  civ-  ilized  life  to  homeowners  and  builders.  I  wept  because  when  I  was  twelve  years  old  I  had  stood  on  a  snowy  river-  bank  as  he  became  a  shadow  on  the  ice,  and  waited  to  see  whether  he  would  slip  between  the  cracking  floes  into  the  water. "