 b"I  HAD  the  idea  to  teach  more  kinds  of  people  to  write  poetry  as  a  result  of  two  previous  books  of  mine:  &quot;I  Taught  Republicans  to  Write  Poetry&quot;  and  &quot;How  to  Teach  the  Writing  of  Poetry  to  Fashion  Coordinators.&quot;  I  thought  of  singles  because  of  an  inter-  esting  hour  I  had  spent  reading  my  own  poems  at  a  singles  bar  called  Ozymandias  II,  and  because  of  many  other  hours,  much  less  happy  ones,  I  had  spent  before  my  marriage  as  a  visitor  to  another  singles  bar,  Nick's  Roost,  where  there  were  no  activities  of  that  kind  going  on.  I  asked  the  owners  of  Ozymandias  II,  my  friends  Ozzie  and  Mandy  Dias,  to  arrange  for  the  class.  I  had  four  students,  and  we  met  once,  on  a  Friday  at  midnight,  at  the  big  table  in  front.  Like  the  others  in  the  crowded  room,  most  of  the  four  were  in  their  twen-  ties,  thirties,  forties,  and  fifties.  Some  of  them  wore  glasses.  One  worked  for  an  escort  agency,  one  was  a  hayride  organizer,  another  a  fashion  coordina-  tor,  another  a  Republican.  The  singles  bar  gave  these  people  a  feeling  of  meetability,  but  none  had  ever  written  poetry  there,  and  none,  I  think,  would  have  done  so  without  me.     I  started  the  class  by  saying  what  I  was  going  to  do  was  get  them  to  write  words  in  lines  of  uneven  length  on  a  piece  of  paper  (I  didn't  want  to  scare  them  with  the  formal  term  &quot;poem&quot;)  and  then  I  would  writea  book  about  how  much  I  had  helped  them.  The  students  were  not  in  the  habit  of  sit-  ting  and  hearing  something  like  this  explained.  Some  were  so  distracted  that  they  could  only  talk  in  incomplete  sentences,  such  as  &quot;What  the-!&quot;  Others  stared  nervously  at  the  TV  screen  above  the  bar,  where  the  final  minutes  of  some  kind  of  sports  event  seemed  to  be  going  on.  I  said  that  writ-  ing  words  in  lines  of  uneven  length  on  a  piece  of  paper  was  not  the  hard  thing  that  many  people  think.  I  said  how  could  it  be  hard  if  I  was  going  to  teach  it  to  them?  I  was  sure  I  could  give  them  the  mastery  of  literary  form  and  metaphor  so  lacking  in  singles-bar  life.  I  saidI  knew  they  had  all  been  single  since  childhood  and  I  could  see  how  this  might  make  them  feel  &quot;unmar-  ried&quot;  and&quot;on  their  own,&quot;  but  I  said  John  Milton  and  Vachel  Lindsay  and  James  Dickey  had  all  been  single  at  one  time  or  another  and  that  writing  words  in  lines  of  uneven  length  on  a  piece  of   paper  had  helped  them  to  stop  running.  I  said  the  first  thing  we  would  do  would  be  a  collaboration.  I  knew  the  students  had  all  gone  on  a  singles  bicycling  tour  ofthe  Wye  River  in  England  five  years  before,  so  I  said  I  want  everyone  to  remember  that  trip  and  think  of  a  sentence  about  it.  Some-  thing  you  saw.  Or  an  outfit  you  wore.  Or  a  feeling  youhad  about  time  passing  and  your  notbeing  married  yet  and  having  to  goon  bicycle  tours  to  meet  somebody.  I'll  write  down  everyone's  sentence  and  put  them  together,  I  said,  and  we'll  have  words  in  lines  of  un-  even  length  on  a  piece  of  paper.  At  first  the  students  were  puzzled.  &quot;We  went  there,  that's  all.&quot;  &quot;I  re-  member  we  did  different  stuff.&quot;  &quot;And  bicycling.&quot;  Then  William  said,  &quot;O.K.  A  double  vodka,  please.  Five  years  have  passed;  five  summers,  with  the  length  of  five  long  winters!&quot;  This  was  a  good  start,  I  said,  especially  the  dra-  matic  &quot;frame&quot;  made  by  &quot;O.K.  A  dou-  ble  vodka,  please,&quot;  as  if  the  lines  were  being  said  casually  to  someone  by  some-  one  sitting  in  a  bar  or  tavern.  Then  Ezra  spoke  up:  &quot;And  again  I  hear  these  waters,  rolling  from  their  mountain  springs  with  a  soft  inland  BpoSod&amp;arkruhos.&quot;  'This  was  better  than  I  had  expected,  but  the  poem  was  getting  a  false-sounding  jig-jigging  rhythm,  and  I  said  for  the  students  not  to  worry  about  academic  gimmicks  such  as  metre.  I  also  said  try  to  get  in  more  of  your  own  personal  feelings  and  hangups.  I  said  for  instance  I  re-  member  when  I  was  in  high  school  I  worried  a  lot  about  my  bike  getting  rusty.  It  was  Emily's  turn:  &quot;Once  again  do  I  behold  these  steep  and  lofty  cliffs,  that  on  a  wild  secluded  scene  impress  thoughts:  the  soul  selects  her  own  scene,  but  you  meet  more  eligible  guys  by  going  out  and  partying  rather  than  staying  at  home.&quot;  I  said  the  repetition  of  &quot;scene&quot;  was  nice,  it  gave  a  nice  feeling  of  repetition.  At  this  point  William  got  very  agi-  tated  and  said  we  were  ruining  &quot;his&quot;  idea.  I  said  all  right,  you  do  the  next  part,  but  I  pressed  him  to  put  in  more  details  from  his  own  experience  as  a  single-the  very  details  that  he  seemed  most  reluctant  to  put  in,  maybe  be-  cause  he  thought  they  were  &quot;stupid.&quot;  He  continued:  &quot;The  day  is  come  when  I  again  socialize,  taking  a  nice  girl  to  dinner  and  a  show,  and  view  the  floor  show  and  the  salad  bar,  which  at  this  season,  with  its  unripe  fruits,  is  clad  in  one  green  hue,  and  lose  myself  'mid  men  and  women,  who  have  different  attitudes  toward  sex.&quot;  " b"Quite  soon  the  students  felt  they  had  enough  words  in  lines  of  uneven  ,.  length  on  a  piece  of  paper.  I  read  the  results  back  to  them  and  said  what  they  had  written  was  a  poem.  I  asked  them  to  think  of  a  title.  They  decided  the  poem  was  really  about  working  out  the  problems  of  writing  a  poem,  so  they  called  it  &quot;Working  Out  at  the  Wye.&quot;  THEN  said  to  do  individual  po-  ems.  Writing  a  poem  all  by  your-  self  is  something  that  nobody  can  do  with  you,  and  this  is  a  special  problem  for  people  who  are  already  panicked  about  being  alone,  such  as  so-called  singles.  I  say  &quot;so-called&quot;  because  the  words  &quot;single,&quot;  &quot;bachelorette,&quot;  etc.,  may  be  thought  to  apply  to  people's  imaginations,  and  they  do  not.  The  power  to  see  the  world  as  a  configura-  tion  of  couples  linked  inextricably  in  Holy  Matrimony  is  the  possession  of  everyone.  I  told  the  students  that  one  of  the  main  problems  poets  have  is  what  to  write  about.  I  said  this  was  a  really  hard  problem  if  you  were  lonely  and  in  a  studio  apartment  and  had  to  go  out  to  a  bar  to  seek  some  grotesque  mockery  of  human  contact.  But  I  said  that  in  a  poem  you  can  be  somebody  else,  you  can  even  be  two  people.  I  said  for  everyone  to  start  their  poem  with  &quot;Let  us...&quot;  The  &quot;us&quot;  in  the  poem  could  do  anything:  get  married,  have  a  huge  church  wedding  with  a  flower  girl  and  a  page  boy,  sit  down  and  talk  over  family  finances-any-  thing.  The  most  popular  &quot;Let  us...  poem  was  Tom's:  &gt;  Let  us  go  then,  you  and  me,  When  the  weekend  is  spread  out  for  us  to  see  Like  a  roommate  bombed  out  of  his  gourd  under  the  table....  Oh,  do  not  ask,  &quot;You  said  you  were  who?&quot;  Let  us  go  to  the  free  luau.  In  the  room  the  women  come  and  o  Talking  of  someone  who  might  be  tall  and  share  their  enthusiasm  for  theatre.  I  praised  Tom's  poem,  saying  it  might  seem  silly  to  a  lot  of  people  but  to  me  it  gave  a  nice  sociable  feeling,  the  sounds  of  nice  people  talking  to  each  other.  I  said  there  were  many  more  things  having  to  do  with  the  five  senses  that  could  be  in  a  poem,  like  colors.  I  said  for  instance  when  I  was  a  boy  I  had  a  dog  named  Rusty.  I  said  close  your  eyes  and  take  a  swallow  of  beer  and  say  what  color  it  reminds  you  of.  They  answered.  &quot;Black.&quot;  &quot;Beer  color.&quot;  &quot;Black.&quot;  &quot;Blackish.&quot;  After  this  exercise,  Ezra  wrote  his  &quot;Little  Black  Book&quot;  poem  :  Hang  it  all,  Mark  Cross,  there  can  bebut  the  one  little  black  book....  Under  black  leather  dress,  lithe  daughter  of  telephone  directory  ...  I  said  noises  could  be  in  a  poem.  I  threw  a  beer  stein  on  the  floor  and  asked  what  word  the  noise  sounded  like.  &quot;Bunk.&quot;  &quot;Drunk.&quot;  &quot;Black.&quot;  &quot;Bash.&quot;  Right  away  Emily  wrote  something  down  and  gave  it  to  me:  I  dreamt  I  was  a  Key  Club,  Select  Fraternity.  At  night  the  eligible  Men  All  had  a  Bash  at  me.  I  said  that  in  a  poem  you  can  com-  pare  things  in  goofy  ways,  Compare  something  small  to  something  yellow,  something  big  to  something  you  don't  know  the  name  for,  something  married  to  something  legally  separated.  William  later  told  me  that  this  idea  made  him  write  his  nice  poem  that  starts:  Shall  I  compare  thee  to  your  place  or  mine?  WAS  surprised  when  it  was  4  a.m.,  closing  time  at  Ozymandias  II.  The  students  were  still  quite  excited  and  said  could  they  stay  for  a  few  minutes  after  hours  because  they  wanted  to  col-  laborate  on  one  final  poem,  a  poem  for  me.  They  made  me  go  into  the  john  while  they  wrote,  and  when  I  came  back  they  were  laughing.  The  poem  was  this:  Thank  you,  this  has  been  as  much  fun  as  a  free  trip  To  Aspen-only  I  can't  ski  and  anyhow  I'd  probably  break  something  In  several  places,  crack!  crack!  crack!  Gosh,  thanks,  I  simply  feel  as  if  you  gave  me  a  raunchy  souvenir  T-shirt  from  the  Annual  Bachelor  Rally-quite  an  icebreaker,  but  I  already  have  one.  By  the  way,  thank  you  for  this  night  like  a  bag  of  yellow  Doritos,  the  name  reminds  me  of  a  dog  I  once  heard  of  named  Doris  But  I'm  on  a  diet  of  blue  and  of  purple.  Thank  you  for  an  experience  similar  to  drinking  tee  Martoonis,  Which  I  could  compare  to  those  other  clear  drinks  that  I  can  hardly  be  expected  to  remember  the  name  of.  Oh-water!  Listen,  really,  we  all  thank  you  for  teaching  us  that  looks  aren't  everything,  even  in  a  poem.  I  said  they  had  learneda  whole  lot  and  it  was  a  really  nice  poem,  one  that  gave  a  strong  feeling  of  niceness. "