 b"I   had  never  heard  of  the  man  before,  but  in  a  long  letter  he  wrote  me  from  Rio  de  Janeiro  he  represented  himself  as  a  Yiddish  writer  who  had  become  &quot;lost  and  ground  up  in  the  hot  desert  of  [REDACTED].&quot;  His  name  was  Paltiel  Gerstendrescher.  A  few  months  after  the  letter,  one  of  his  books  arrived.  It  was  put  out  by  the  Myself  Publica-  tions,  printed  on  gray  paper  and  bound  in  covers  crimped  at  the  side  from  the  time  it  had  been  in  the  mail.  A  mixture  of  autobiography  and  essays  about  God,  the  world,  man,  and  the  aimlessness  of  creation,  it  was  written  in  a  turgid  style  and  unusually  lengthy  sentences.  It  teemed  with  typographical  errors,  and  some  of  the  pages  were  transposed.  Its  title  was  &quot;The  Confession  of  an  Ag-  nostic.&quot;  I  skimmed  through  it  and  wrote  the  author  a  thank-you  note.  That  began  a  correspondence  consisting  of  three  or  four  incredibly  long  letters  from  him,  and  a  brief  note  from  me  apologizing  for  not  writing  sooner  and  in  greater  detail.  I  don't  know  how,  but  Paltiel  Gerstendrescher  found  out  that  I  was  preparing  to  go  to  [REDACTED]  for  a  series  of  lectures,  and  he  began  to  send  me  special-delivery  letters  and  even  telegrams  asking  me  to  spend  a  few  days  in  Rio  de  Janeiro.  At  that  time  I  wasn't  flying,  and  it  just  so  happened  that  the  Argentinian  ship  I  boarded  was  scheduled  to  stop  over  for  two  days  at  Santos,  twelve  days  after  its  departure  from  New  York.  The  ship  was  nearly  deserted,  and  someone  confided  to  me  that  this  was  its  last  trip  from  North  [REDACTED].  I  had  obtained  a  luxury  cabin  at  a  reduced  rate,  and  in  the  dining  hall  I  had  my  own  wine  waiter,  even  though  I  took  only  a  sip  of  wine  to  give  him  some-  thing  to  do.  That  spring-spring  in  [REDACTED]  and  fall  in  New  York-a  hurricane  swept  over  the  Atlantic,  with  violent  rains  and  gale-force  winds.  The  ship  lurched  dis-  mally.  Its  horn  blew  day  and  night,  in  warning.  Waves  pounded  the  hull  like  mighty  sledgehammers.  In  my  cabin  I  had  hung  my  tie  over  the  mirror  and  it  executed  acrobatic  stunts.  The  tooth-  brush  in  the  glass  clinked  without  stop-  ping.  The  ship  fell  behind  schedule,  and  I  sent  Paltiel  a  radiogram  giving  our  new  time  of  arrival,  but  we  missed  even  that.  When  the  ship  finally  docked  in  San-  tos,  there  was  no  one  to  meet  me.  The  ship  would  remain  in  port  for  only  twenty-four  hours.  I  tried  to  telephone  from  the  harbor,  but  I  couldn't  get  a  connection.  One  time,  someone  did  an-  swer,  but  he  spoke  only  Portuguese,  which  Idid  not  understand.  For  some  reason,  I  couldn't  bring  myself  to  dis-  appoint  Paltiel  Gerstendrescher.  'The  tone  in  which  he  had  written  about  this  visit  implied  that  all  his  hopes  depend-  ed  upon  it.  After  brief  deliberation,  I  boarded  a  bus  that  went  to  Rio,  and  from  there  tooka  taxi  to  his  address.  It  turned  out  to  be  quite  far  from  the  city,  in  a  desolate  section  that  the  driver  had  trouble  finding.  The  narrow  road,  full  of  pits  and  potholes,  lay  partially  flooded  under  broad  puddles.  I  knocked  at  a  house  that  was  a  half  ruin,  and  a  woman  opened  the  door.  To  my  surprise,  I  recognized  her  from  [REDACTED]-Lena  Stempler,  an  obscure  actress,  singer,  and  monologuist.  She  painted  as  well,  I  had  met  her  at  the  Writers'  Club.  She  was  then  a  young  brunette  and  the  sweetheart  ofthewell-  known  writer  David  Hesheles,  who  later  perished  under  the  Nazis,  Lena  had  vanished  from  sight  years  before  I  left  [REDACTED].  All  kinds  of  slanders  were  spread  about  her  in  the  Writers'  Club.  It  was  said  that  she  had  divorced  four  husbands  and  had  offered  her  body  to  a  theatre  critic  in  exchange  for  a  favor-  able  review.  Someone  told  me  that  she  suffered  from  syphilis,  As  I  looked  at  her  now,  I  was  impressed  at  how  girlish  her  figure  had  remained.  Her  short-  trimmed  hair  was  still  black,  though  it  showed  the  dullness  of  dye.  Wrinkles  could  beseen  through  makeup.  Lena  had  a  snub  nose,  light-brown  eyes,  a  wide  mouth  with  loosely  spaced  teeth.  The  butt  of  a  cigarette  stuck  out  from  between  her  lips,  She  wore  a  kimono  of  some  flimsy  material  and  high-heeled  slippers.  When  she  saw  me,  she  spat  out  the  butt,  smiled  with  an  expression  suggest-  ing  that  she  knew  more  about  me  than  I  imagined,  and  said,  &quot;I  am  Mrs.Ger-  stendrescher.  Unexpected,  eh?&quot;  And  she  kissed  me&quot;,.  Her  breath  smelled  of  tobacco,  alcohol,  and  something  pu-  trid.  She  took  my  arm  and  led  me  into  a  huge  room  that  seemed  to  be  every-  thing  at  once-a  living  room,  a  dining  room,  a  bedroom,  a  studio,  A  table  stood  here,  set  with  plates  and  glasses,  and  a  wide  divan  of  the  kind  that  serves  as  asofa  by  day  and  a  bed  by  night.  Unframed  canvases  hung  on  the  walls.  On  the  floor  lay  piles  of  books  and  stacks  of  &quot;The  Confession  of  an  Ag-  nostic.&quot;  Lena  said,  &quot;Paltiel  went  to  meet  you  in  Santos.  You  missed  each  other.  He  called.  I  hope  you  remember  me.  We  rarely  exchanged  a  word,  but  I  used  to  see  you  every  day  at  the  Writers'  Club.  In  Rio,  I  read  sketches  you  had  written  to  audiences  a  few  times.  I  married  Paltiel  in  [REDACTED],.  We're  together  going  on  eight  years  already.  Take  off  your  jacket.  It's  hot  as  hell  in  here.&quot;  Lena  seized  my  jacket  by  the  sleeve  and  pulled  it  off.  Afterward,  she  loos-  ened  my  tie.  She  fussed  around  me  like  some  relative,  but  also  with  an  aggres-  siveness  I  didn't  care  for.  She  put  out  refreshments  on  a  small  table-a  pitcher  of  lemonade,  a  bottle  of  liqueur,  a  plate  of  cookies,  a  bowl  of  fruit.  We  sat  down  in  wicker  chairs,  and  drank  and  ate,  and  from  time  to  time  Lena  took  apuff  on  a  cigarette.  She  said,  &quot;If  I  told  you  that  Paltiel  looked  forward  to  your  coming  as  one  looks  forward  to  the  Messiah,  this  would  be  no  exaggeration.  He's  been  talking  about  you  non-stop  for  years.  When  a  letter  comes  from  you,  he  goes  berserk.  He's  crazy  about  you  and  he's  made  me  crazy,  too.  Here,  we  are  both  trapped  in  a  dilemma.  Every-  thing  is  against  us-the  climate,  the  local  Jewish  society,  our  nerves.  Paltiel  is  a  genius  at  making  enemies.  Here,  if  you  quarrel  with  two  or  three  of  the  community  leaders  you're  as  good  as  excommunicated.  Because  of  him,  I've  been  ostracized,  too.  We  would  starve  to  death  if  it  weren't  for  a  small  stipend  I  get  from  my  ex-husband.  To  hear  the  whole  story,  you'd  have  to  sit  and  listen  for  days  on  end.  Paltiel  used  to  be  a  fantastic  lover.  All  of  a  sudden,  he  became  impotent.  I,  on  the  other  hand,  have  become  possessed  by  a  dybbuk.&quot;  &quot;A  dybbuk?&quot;  " b"&quot;Yes,  a  dybbuk.  Why  do  you  look  so  frightened?  You  write  about  dybbuks  constantly.  Apparently  they  are  nothing  more  than  fic-  tion  to  you,  but  dybbuks  do  exist.  Everything  you  conjure  up  about  them  is  the  truth.  A  dybbuk  sits  inside  you,  too,  but  you  don't  recognize  it.  It's  bet-  ter  that  way.  Your  dybbuk  is  creative,  but  mine  wants  to  torture  me.  If  he  lets  me  live,  it's  only  because  you  can't  torture  a  corpse.  Don't  stare  at  me  that  way.  I'm  not  crazy.&quot;  &quot;What  does  he  do  to  you?&quot;  &quot;He  does  exactly  what  you  describe  in  your  sto-  ries.  I  had  saved  up  a  lit-  tle  money,  and  I  spent  it  all  on  psychiatrists  and  psychoanalysts.  In  [REDACTED]  they're  a  rare  breed-and  in  addition  maybe  third-  or  tenth-rate.  But  when  you're  drowning  you  clutch  at  even  a  tenth-rate  straw.  Here  is  Paltiel.&quot;  The  door  opened  and  in  came  a  little  man  wear-  ing  a  short  raincoat  and  a  hat  covered  with  plastic,  an  umbrella  in  one  hand  and  a  briefcase  in  the  other.  I  had  pictured  him  as  tall,  maybe  because  of  his  long  name.  When  he  saw  me,  he  appeared  dumbfounded.  In  those  days,  my  pic-  ture  was  seldom  printed  in  newspapers  and  magazines.  He  stood  there  study-  ing  me  up  and  down  and  even  side-  ways.  An  angry  smile  showed  on  his  pointed  face.  He  had  a  high  forehead,  sunken  cheeks,  a  sharp  chin.  &quot;So  it's  you,&quot;  he  said.  His  tone  implied,  You  aren't  what  I  wanted  you  to  be,  but  I  must  accept  the  facts  as  they  are.  Soon  he  added,  &quot;Lena,  today  it's  a  holiday  by  us!&quot;  We  ate  a  vegetarian  meal,  drank  papaya  juice,  and  strong  4272617a696cian  cof-  fee,  and  for  dessert  Lena  served  a  cake  she  had  baked  herself  in  my  honor.  She  threw  open  the  door  to  alarge  and  overgrown  yard  behind  the  house.  The  rain  had  stopped  the  previous  day,  and  the  evening  was  fresh  with  tropical  scents  and  ocean  breezes.  The  sun  rolled  toward  the  west  like  a  coal,  turning  the  remnants  of  clouds  from  the  hurricane  a  fiery  red.  Lena  switched  on  the  radio  and  listened  to  the  news  for  a  while,  and  I  cocked  my  ear  to  the  song  of  birds  that  had  flown  in  for  the  evening  to  roost  on  the  branches  of  the  trees,  Some  stayed  where  they  landed,  others  shifted  about,  flying  from  tree  to  tree  with  a  flapping  of  wings  and  a  rustle.  I  had  never  seen  birds  of  such  color  out  of  captivity.  The  force  of  Genesis  still  functioned  here  undisturbed.  Paltiel  spoke  to  me  about  literature,  about  his  own  writing.  &quot;A  creator  should  also  be  a  critic,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;but  the  criticism  must  come  later.  My  trouble  is  that  before  I  even  write  three  words  I'm  already  filled  with  questions  about  what  my  pen  wants  to  express  and  I  try  in  advance  to  justify  and  smooth  over  everything.  You  asked  me  in  one  of  your  letters  why  I  use  such  long  sen-  tences  and  enclose  so  many  comments  in  parentheses.  It's  my  critical  nature.  Actually,  analysis  is  the  sickness  of  man.  When  Adam  and  Eve  ate  of  the  tree  of  knowledge,  they  became  critics  and  analysts  and  perceived  that  they  were  naked.  All  the  current  works  written  about  sex  have  evoked  an  epidemic  of  impotence.  Economists  have  interfered  with  the  world  economy  until  they've  brought  about  inflation  in  every  coun-  try.  It's  the  same  with  the  so-called  exact  sciences.  I  don't  believe  in  all  those  particles  of  atoms  they  keep  dis-  covering.  The  human  brain  has  imposed  its  own  lunacies  upon  Nature,  or  Na-  ture  herself  has  eaten  of  the  tree  of  knowledge  and  gone  crazy.  Who  knows?  It  may  be  that  God  has  gone  into  psychoanalysis  and  therefore-&quot;  &quot;Paltiel,  I  know  your  theories  al-  ready,&quot;  Lena  interrupted,  &quot;I'd  rather  hear  what  our  guest  has  to  say.&quot;  &quot;No,  go  on.  It's  interesting,&quot;I  said.  I  glanced  toward  the  windows.  Just  a  moment  ago  it  had  been  day;  abrupt-  ly,  night  had  fallen  as  if  a  celestial  light  had  been  extinguished.  The  air  inside  the  room  filled  with  gnats,  mites,  midges.  Huge  beetles  emerged  from  cracks  in  the  walls  and  floor.  Lena  said,  &quot;Life  here  is  so  plentiful  you  can't  stop  anything  with  nets.  I  was  taught  in  Gymnasium  that  matter  can't  pass  through  matter,  but  that  was  true  for  [REDACTED],  not  for  [REDACTED].&quot;  Tell  me  about  your  dybbuk,&quot;  I  said.  Lena  cast  a  questioning  glance  at  Paltiel.  &quot;Where  shall  I  begin?  If  you  want  us  to  be  open  with  him,  we'll  have  to  tell  him  the  truth.&quot;  &quot;All  right,  tell  him,&quot;  Paltiel  replied.  &quot;'The  truth  is  that  we  are  both  cursed  or  enchanted-call  it  what  you  will,&quot;  Lena  said  after  some  hesitation.  &quot;Paltiel  came  here  from  [REDACTED].  On  account  of  me  he  divorced  a  wife  and  left  two  chil-  dren.  We  met  in  your  New  York.  He  " b"wanted  to  be  a  writer,  not  a  lawyer.  He  came  to  New  York  for  some  Yid-  dishist  conference.  I  had  the  good  for-  tune,  as  youmight  call  it,  to  come  here  before  the  Holocaust,  but  I  wasn't  lucky  in  [REDACTED],  nor  have  I  been  lucky  here.  You  remember  me  from  [REDACTED].  I  was  raised  in  a  house  where  Polish  was  spoken,  not  Yiddish.  I  came  to  [REDACTED]  to  study  at  a  Polish  drama  school,  not  to  become  a  hanger-on  in  the  Yiddish  theatre.  It  was  your  friend  David  Hesheles  who  made  a  Yiddishist  out  of  me.  They  probably  said  terrible  things  about  me  at  the  Writers'  Club.  I  was  an  alien  element  there  from  the  begin-  ning,  and  I  remained  one  until  the  last  day.  The  men  were  all  after  me  and  their  slatterns  despised  me  as  they  would  a  spider.  What  David  Hesheles  did  to  me,  how  he  tormented  me,  is  some-  thing  I'd  best  not  say,  because  he  is  al-  ready  in  the  other  world,  a  victim  of  human  cruelty,  Just  one  thing-he  would  only  agree  to  be  my  lover  if  I  was  married.  Crazy,  isn't  it?  First  of  all,  he  was  tempted  by  the  thought  of  possessing  another  man's  wife.  Second,  he  was  afraid  that  if  I  was  alone  I'd  be  looking  around  for  someone  else.  He  gave  himself  every  freedom,  but  he  burned  with  jealousy  over  me.  He  manipulated  things  so  that  when  he  saw  I  was  growing  attached  to  one  hus-  band  he  arranged  for  me  to  be  divorced  and  found  me  another.  How  and  in  what  circumstances  I  came  to  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  is  a  chapter  in  itself.  I  arrived  physically  and  spiritually  ill,  and,  once  here,  I  married  again-this  time  allegedly  of  my  own  will  but  actually  for  a  piece  of  bread  and  a  roof  over  my  head.  My  new  husband  was  forty  yearsolder  than  I  and  it  was  then  that  I  met  Paltiel  and  made  another  woman  miserable.&quot;  &quot;Lena,  you're  digressing,&quot;  said.  &quot;So?  If  I'm  digressing,  I'm  digress-  ing.  You  begin  writing  about  Yehupetz  and  end  up  in  Boiberik  but  me  you  don't  allow  to  come  to  the  point.  Be-  cause  of  your  wild  digressions,  Parness  has  stopped  publishing  your  work.&quot;  &quot;Lena,  this  has  nothing  to  do  with  Parness.&quot;  &quot;In  that  case,  I'll  shut  up  and  you  can  do  the  speaking.&quot;  Paltiel  &quot;The  fact  is,  she  has  talked  herself  into  the  lunacy  that  David  Hesheles  comes  to  her,  tickles  her,  pinches  her,  pushes  her,  chokes  her.  He  has  taken  up  a  position  inside  her  belly,  You  know  from  my  book  that  I'm  no  atheist.  A  real  agnostic  allows  for  all  possibilities,  even  for  your  demons  and  hobgoblins.  If  in  the  twentieth  century  there  could  emerge  a  Hitler  and  a  Stalin  and  other  such  savageries,  then  anything  is  possi-  ble.  But  even  you  will  admit  that  not  every  case  of  hysteria  is  a  dybbuk.  The  nuns  who  exhibited  stigmata  on  the  week  of  Jesus's  anguish  weren't  pos-  sessed  by  dybbuks.  Today  even  the  Pope  would  concede  this-&quot;  &quot;Only  yesterday  you  said  that  our  house  was  haunted  and  that  what  I'm  going  through  couldn't  be  explained  away  in  natural  terms,&quot;  Lena  broke  in.  &quot;Those  were  your  very  words.&quot;  &quot;It  is  impossible  to  explain  any-  thing-even  why  an  apple  falls  from  a  tree  or  why  a  magnet  draws  iron,  not  butter.&quot;  &quot;You  said  that  only  our  honored  guest  would  be  capable  of  exorcising  this  dybbuk.&quot;  " b"&quot;I  said  it  because  I  know  that  you  admire  him,  love  him,  and  all  the  rest.  I  admire  him  myself,  and  I  would  be  in  seventh  heaven  if  he  would  stay  with  us  and  have  a  look  at  my  writing.  But  your  dybbuk  is  nothing  more  than  hysteria.&quot;  Lena  sprang  from  her  chair.  She  nearly  overturned  a  wineglass  and  caught  it  just  as  it  was  falling.  She  thrust  out  a  finger  with  a  red  nail  and  said,  &quot;Paltiel,  the  second  you  came  back  Inoticeda  complete  change  in  you.  What  did  you  expect-that  our  guest  goes  around  with  a  crown  on  his  head?  Certainly  I  would  like  him  to  stay  with  us,  but  since  he  can't,  that's  my  mis-  fortune.  You  can  ask  him  to  take  along  your  manuscripts  to  read  on  the  ship.  He  still  has  six  days  left  to  travel.  But  me  he  can't  take  along.  I  wish  he  could.  You  know  I'm  choking  here.&quot;  &quot;You're  a  free  person.  I  told  you  that  from  the  very  first  day.&quot;  And  they  switched  over  to  Portuguese.  I  had  fallen  in  with  a  couple  caught  up  in  an  ongoing  controversy-one  of  those  quarrels  that  drag  on  for  years  and  make  couples  shameless.  The  few  hours  I  had  spent  here  had  made  me  fully  aware  of  the  situation.  Paltiel  Ger-  stendrescher  was  an  intellectual,  not  an  artist.  He  read  and  spoke  a  correct,  even  an  idiomatic  Yiddish,  but  he  com-  pletely  lacked  the  mentality  of  the  Yiddishist.  He  had  probably  gone  to  [REDACTED]  as  a  child.  He  belonged  to  that  breed  of  people  who  exile  themselves  to  an  alien  environment,  choose  a  pro-  fession  for  which  they're  unsuitable,  and  quite  frequently  an  unsuitable  mate  as  well.  The  same  thing  held  true  for  Lena,  Even  the  house  where  they  lived-in  a  forsaken,  non-Jewish  neighbor-  hood-was  unsuitable  for  them.  They  had  turned  away  from  the  only  circle  from  which  they  might  have  drawn  a  livelihood;  and  be-  sides,  Paltiel  had  in-  volved  himself  in  ex-  perimenting  with  lan-  guage,  indulging  in  elaborate  wordplays  and  mannerisms  that  had  small  hope  of  interest-  ing  the  Yiddish  reader  and  that  could  never  be  translated.  Well,  but  why  would  a  husband  and  wife  so  thoroughly  sab-  otage  their  interests?  And  what  was  it  they  expected  of  me  and  of  a  visit  that  would  last  at  most  a  day?  I  had  a  momentary  urge  to  try  to  speak  about  their  situ-  ation  to  them,  but  I  knew  that  it  was  already  too  late.  Lena's  words  about  her  dybbuk  had  piqued  my  curi-  osity,  but  although  hysteria  itself  is  ex-  aggeration  and  lying,  I  knew  that  hers  was  entirely  artificial-a  literary  dyb-  buk,  perhaps  borrowed  from  one  of  my  stories.  The  real  victim  here  was  Pal-  tiel,  I  told  myself,  He  bowed  his  head  and  was  listening  to  Lena's  complaints  with  bewilderment.  From  time  to  time  he  shota  look  of  suspicion  at  me.  It  was  obvious  from  the  momentwe  met  that  he  was  disappointed  in  me,  but  as  far  as  I  knew  I  hadn't  spoken  any  words  that  might  have  displeased  him.  It  couldonly  be  the  way  I  looked.  For  all  my  embarrassment,  I  tried  to  come  to  a  decision  as  to  the  color  of  his  eyes.  They  weren't  blue  or  brown  or  gray  but  yellow  and  set  wide  apart.  It  oc-  curred  to  me  that  if  I  found  myself  in  a  situation  like  this  in  [REDACTED]  I  could  simply  get  up  and  walk  out.  But  there  was  no  escape  in  an  alien  land  far  from  a  city.  Paltiel  stood  up.  &quot;Well,  good,&quot;  he  said  in  Yiddish.  &quot;I'm  going.&quot;  In  a  moment,  he  had  closed  the  door  behind  him.  OR  a  while  Lena  kept  speaking  in  Portuguese,  but  she  realized  her  mistake  and  broke  into  laughter.  She  said,  &quot;I  am  so  confused  I  no  longer  know  what's  happening  to  me.&quot;  &quot;Where  has  he  gone  in  the  middle  of  the  night?&quot;  &quot;Don't  fear,  he  won't  get  lost.  From  looking  at  my  neglected  garden  you  might  get  the  impression  that  we  live  in  a  jungle.  Actually,  we're  only  a  few  steps  from  the  road  and  no  more  than  twenty  kilometres  from  Rio.  It's  not  the  first  time  he's  done  this.  Every  time  I  tell  him  the  truth  he  runs  away.  He  has  an  old  widow  in  Rio  who  plays  the  role  of  his  patron.  She  is  also  his  only  reader  and  he  goes  to  her  to  be-  wail  his  fate.  He  stops  a  car  and  they  take  him.  This  isn't  New  York.  People  here  aren't  afraid  topick  you  up,  especially  such  a  runt  as  him.&quot;  &quot;Is  he  having  an  affair  with  her?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;An  affair?  No.  Maybe.  God  grant  he  would  and  leave  me  alone.&quot;  &quot;Who  will  take  me  to  Santos  in  case  he  doesn't  come  back?&quot;  &quot;I'll  take  you.  I  have  a  schedule  and  all  the  rest  of  it.  Don't  worry.  The  ship  won't  leave  without  you.  When  they  say  four  in  the  afternoon,  they  don't  leave  till  ten  at  night.  The  whole  way  of  life  in  these  countries  consists  of  putting  everything  off  till  tomorrow,  till  the  day  after,  till  next  year.  I  see  by  your  face  that  you  want  to  hear  more  about  my  dybbuk.  Yes,  my  dyb-  buk  is  David  Hesheles.  He  caused  me  anguish  when  he  was  alive,  and  now  that  he's  dead  he  wants  to  do  me  in.  Not  all  of  a  sudden,  mind  you,  but  gradually.  The  only  time  he  has  left  me  alone  was  during  the  few  yearsI  was  with  my  former  husband,  theold  " b"man.  He  was  apparently  not  jealous  of  him.  But  since  I'm  with  Paltiel  I  have  had  no  peace.  David  Hesheles  tells  me  frankly  that  he'll  drag  me  down  to  him  in  his  grave,  though,  to  be  factual,  there  is  no  grave.  There  is  only  a  heap  of  ashes.&quot;  &quot;He  talks  to  you  in  a  real  voice?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  in  a  voice,  but  I'm  the  only  one  who  can  hear  him.  Sometimes  he  makes  noises  that  even  Paltiel  can  hear,  but  he  won't  admit  it.  He  plays  the  ra-  tionalist,  but  he's  afraid  of  his  own  shadow.  He  has  seen  Hesheles'  appa-  rition  walking  down  the  steps  of  our  cellar.  He  has  heard  him  slam  doors  and  open  faucets  in  the  middle  of  the  night.  David  Hesheles  has  settled  him-  self  inside  my  stomach.  I've  always  done  calisthenics  and  I  had  a  flat  belly,  almost  like  a  man's.  All  of  a  sudden,  I  got  up  one  morning  with  a  huge  swell-  ing  there.  It's  actually  a  head,  Ais  head.  Don't  look  at  me  that  way.  Paltiel  and  the  local  doctors  all  have  the  same  an-  swer  for  it:  neurosis,  complex.  When  an  X-ray  shows  nothing,  it  doesn't  exist.  But  a  head  has  settled  inside  my  stomach.  I  can  feel  his  nose,  his  brow,  his  skull.  When  he  speaks,  his  mouth  moves.  As  long  as  he  is  down  there  it's  bearable,  but  when  he  falls  into  a  rage  he  begins  to  edge  up  higher  toward  the  throat.  Then  I  can't  breathe.  I  used  to  hear  back  home  that  if  you  did  some-  one  harm  and  he  died  the  corpse  came  back  to  strangle  you.  But  I  did  him  no  wrong.  He  wronged  me.  At  first  I  considered  this  an  old  wives'  tale-  folklore.  I'll  be  frank  with  you:  if  someone  were  to  tell  me  what  I'm  telling  you  now,  I  would  tell  him  to  commit  himself  to  an  asylum.  If  you  want,  you  can  feel  the  head  with  your  own  hands.&quot;  For  a  moment,  a  childish  fear  came  over  me,  along  with  a  revulsion  against  touching  her  flesh.  I  had  not  the  slight,  est  urge  for  this  female.  I  recalled  what  I  had  been  told  -that  she  suf-  fered  from  a  venereal  disease.  I  my-  self  would  have  become  impotent  with  her.  I  began  seeking  a  pretext  to  get  myself  out  of  this  intimacy,  but  I  felt  ashamed  of  my  fear.  For  the  first  time  I  was  offered  something  the  psychic  researchers  call  physical  evidence.  I  said,  &quot;Your  husband  may  come  back,  and-&quot;  &quot;Don't  be  afraid.  He  won't  come  back.  He  undoubtedly  went  to  her.  Even  if  he  did  come,  you  wouldn't  be  in  any  trouble-we're  both  deter-  mined  to  show  you  the  truth.  I  have  an  idea.  There's  a  hammock  outside.  It's  a  dark  night.  We  have  no  neigh-  bors,  The  mosquitoes  will  attack  us, but  there  is  no  malaria  here.  Besides,  there's  a  net  above  it.  Come!&quot;  Lena  took  my  arm.  She  flicked  a  switch  and  all  the  lights  went  out.  She  opened  the  door  to  the  garden  and  a  wave  of  heat  struck  me  like  heat  from  an  oven.  The  sky  hovered  low,  thickly  strewn  with  southern  constellations.  The  stars  appeared  as  large  as  bunches  of  grapes  in  a  cosmic  vineyard.  Crickets  sawed  unseen  trees  with  invisible  saws.  Frogs  croaked  with  human  voices.  From  the  banana  trees,  the  wild  flow-  ers,  and  thickets  of  grass  and  leaves  rose  a  scorching  heat  that  penetrated  my  clothes  and  warmed  my  insides  like  a  hot  compress.  Lena  led  me  through  the  darkness  as  if  I  were  blind.  She  men-  tioned  the  fact  that  lizards  and  snakes  crawled  here,  but  not  of  poisonous  varieties.  Someone  on  the  ship  had  told  me  the  joke  that  what  the  government  in  [REDACTED]  stole  during  the  day  grew  back  at  night.  It  seemed  to  menow  that  I  could  hear  juices  flowing  to  the  roots  and  being  transformed  into  mangoes,  bananas,  papayas,  pineapples.  Lena  tilt,  ed  the  hammock  so  I  could  get  in  and  gave  it  a  playful  push.  Soon  she  slid  in  beside  me.  She  opened  the  kimono  that  covered  her  naked  body,  took  my  hand,  and  placed  it  on  her  abdomen.  She  did  everything  quickly,  with  the  skill  of  a  medium  accustomed  to  s\xc3\xa9ances.  I  did,  in  fact,  feel  something  inside  her  belly,  protruding  and  long  in  shape.  It  began  under  the  breasts  and  extended  to  the  pubic  hair.  Lena  guided  my  hand  up-  ward.  She  directed  my  forefinger  to  a  small  bump  and  asked,  &quot;You  feel  the  nose?&quot;  &quot;''The  nose?  No.  Yes.  Maybe.&quot;  &quot;Don't  be  so  scared.  I'm  not  a  witch.  From  the  way  you  write  about  dybbuks,  I  assumedyou  were  used  to  such  mysteries.&quot;  You  don't  get  used  to  mysteries.&quot;  &quot;Really,  you've  remained  a  boy.  Maybe  that's  where  your  strength  lies.  David  Hesheles  is  mad  at  me,  not  at  you.  He  liked  you.  He  always  praised  your  talent.  I  kept  seeking  opportuni-  ties  to  meet  you,  but  you  fled  from  women  like  a  Chassid.  When  I  started  reading  your  things  here  in  [REDACTED],  I  couldn't  believe  that  the  writer  was  really  you.&quot;  &quot;Sometimes  I  don't  believe  it  my-  self.&quot;  &quot;'Feel  his  forehead.  You  won't  have  many  such  opportunities.&quot;  Lena  lifted  my  hand  and  I  touched  a  pointed  nipple.  I  jerked  my  finger  away  so  that  she  shouldn't  think  I  was  trying  to  arouse  her.  For  all  the  weird-  ness  ofthe  situation,  I  told  myself  that  neither  David  Hesheles-that  cynic,  may  he  rest  in  peace-nor  his  soul  had  any  connection  with  this  game.  Lena  suffered  from  a  tumor,  or  maybe  it  was  " b" the  result  of  a  practiced  self-deception.  If  you  desire  something  strongly  enough,  you  can  train  the  muscles  to  perform  all  sorts  of  stunts  and  contor-  tions.  But  why  should  she  want  this  so  badly?  &quot;What  do  you  say  now?&quot;  Lena  asked.  &quot;Truly,  I  don't  know  what  to  say.&quot;  &quot;Don't  be  so  nervous.  Paltiel  won't  come  back.  I  suspect  that  he  started  ar-  guing  with  me  on  purpose  so  I  could  be  alone  with  you.&quot;  &quot;Why  do  you  say  that?&quot;  &quot;Why?  Because  he's  half  crazy,  and  because  we  are  both  trapped  in  a  dark  corner-physically,  spiritually,  in  every  respect.  I've  had  husbands  and  I  know.  No  matter  how  great  a  love  may  be,  there  comes  a  crisis  that  is  just  as  much  anenigma  as  love  itself-or  as  death.  You  still  love  each  other,  but  you  have  to  part,  or  a  new  person  comes  along  and  introduces  a  new  approach.  I'll  tell  you  something,  but  don't  take  it  bad-  ly-in  our  fantasies,  yow  were  that  per-  son.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  but  unfortunately  I'm  leaving  the  first  thing  tomorrow.  I  have  my  own  complications.  Why  did  you  settle  so  far  from  everything  and  everyone?&quot;  I  asked,  changing  my  tone.  &quot;Paltiel  is  highly  intelligent;  he  possesses  lots  of  knowledge.  In  New  York  he  could  easily  become  a  professor.  Your  chances  would  be  better  there,  too.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  you  are  right.  But  here  I  have  the  house.  I  receive  alimony  from  my  former  husband.  This  house  would  be  hard  to  sell.  Besides,  it's  not  alto-  gether  mine.  He  wouldn't  send  me  the  cruzeiros  to  New  York,  either.  Paltiel  has  grown  completely  apathetic.  He  sits  day  and  night  and  writes  these  novels  in  which  there  isn't  one  interesting  character.  He  is  trying  to  become  a  Yiddish  Joyce,  or  something  of  the  sort.  I  hear  that  in  New  York  the  Yiddish  theatre  is  going  under.&quot;  &quot;I'm  sorry,  yes.&quot;  &quot;Sometimes  I  want  the  dybbuk  to  go  up  to  my  throat  and  finish  me  off.  I'm  too  tired  to  begin  all  over-especially  since  there  is  nothing  to  begin.  I'm  ripe  for  death,  but  I  lack  the  courage  to  act.  Don't  laugh  at  me,  but  I  still  dream  of  love.&quot;  &quot;I've  heard  this  from  sick  and  old  people  literally  a  day  before  they  died.&quot;  &quot;What  sense  does  it  make?  I  lie  in  bed  loaded  down  with  troubles  and  fantasize  about  a  great  love-some-  thing  unique  that  probably  doesn't  exist.  Whether  my  dybbuk  will  strangle  me  or  I'll  die  from  heart  failure,  one  thing  is  sure:  I'll  die  with  this  dream.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  true.&quot;  &quot;How  do  you  understand  it?&quot;  I  wanted  to  say  that  I  didn't  under-  stand  it.  Instead,  I  said,  &quot;It  seems  that  life  and  death  have  no  common  border.  Life  is  total  truth  and  death  is  total  lie.&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  mean-that  we  live  forever?&quot;  &quot;Life  is  God's  chariot  and  death  is  only  the  shadow  of  His  whip.&quot;  &quot;Who  said  that?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know.  Maybe  I  did  myself.  I'm  just  babbling.&quot;  &quot;I  told  you-a  dybbuk  sits  within  you,  too.  Tell  your  dybbuk  to  kiss  me.  I'm  not  so  old  or  so  ugly.&quot;  I'm  not  going  to  start  anything  with  her,I  decided.  This  woman  is  a  liar,  an  exhibitionist,  and  mad  to  boot.  Her  husband  showed  me  hostility.  I  had  had  dealings  with  people  of  this  sort.  One  minute  they  idolize  you,  the  next  they  scold  you.  They  are  invariably  out  for  some  favor  that  is  as  impossible  and  crackpot  as  they  are  themselves.  But  even  while  I  made  this  firm  decision  I  put  my  arms  around  Lena,.  I  was  al-  ways  intrigued  by  those  who  chose  fail-  ure,  wallowed  in  its  complexities,  sacri-  ficed  themselves  to  its  deceptions.  I  kissed  Lena  now,  and  she  bit  into  my  mouth.  I  heard  myself  calling  her  endearing  names.  We  were  rolling  and  struggling.  She  tried  to  cover  us  with  the  mosquito  net  and  we  fumbled  to  tuck  it  around  us.  Suddenly  the  ham-  " b"mock  tore  away  from  the  tree  and  we  fell  into  a  swamp  full  of  nettles,  rotten  roots,  slime.  I  tried  to  get  up,  but  I  was  trapped  in  the  net.  At  that  moment  Lena  let  out  a  ghastly  scream.  Mosqui-  toes  had  descended  upon  us,  as  dense  as  a  swarm  of  locusts,  I  had  been  bitten  by  mosquitoes  before,  but  never  by  so  many  and  with  such  ferocity.  I  some-  how  managed  to  disentangle  myself  and  help  Lena  up.  We  tried  to  run  to  the  door  but  were  caught  in  thorns,  branches,  prickly  weeds.  Lena  kept  on  screaming.  Only  now  did  I  realize  that  she  was  naked  and  had  lost  one  of  her  shoes.  I  tried  to  lift  her  up,  but  she  re-  sisted.  When  we  finally  reached  the  house  and  the  light  was  turned  on,I  saw  that  we  were  both  covered  with  bites  and  with  living  mosquitoes.  They  had  at-  tached  themselves  to  us  like  leeches.  We  began  to  slap  one  another  to  kill  these  parasites  whose  blood  had  been  our  blood  only  an  instant  before,  We  jumped  against  each  other  in  a  crazy  dance.  My  shirt  was  soakedwith  blood.  Lena  tore  it  off  and  pulled  me  into  a  bathroom  with  a  long  bathtub  over  which  hung  a  copper  tank  and  a  shower.  She  let  the  water  run  and  we  stood  under  it,  hold-  ing  one  another  to  keep  our  balance.  Lena  opened  a  medicine  chest,  tookout  a  bottle  of  fluid,  and  began  to  rub  down  our  bodies.  I  saw  in  a  mirror  that  the  skin  of  my  face  was  half  peeled  off.  Still  wailing,  Lena  led  me  back  to  the  living  room,  where  she  pulled  a  sheet  from  a  chest,  spread  it  over  the  broad  couch,  and  wrapped  me  up  like  a  corpse  in  a  shroud.  Then  she  wrapped  herself  in  a  sheet.  She  bent  over  me  and  cried  out,  &quot;God  loves  us,  He  has  sent  the  punish-  ment  before  the  sin!&quot;  She  threw  herself  on  me  with  a  lament,  and  in  an  instant  my  face  be-came  wet  and  salty.  She  put  out  the  light,  but  it  went  on  immediately-  Paltiel  had  returned.  THE  next  morning  Paltiel  took  me  on  a  bus  to  Santos.  Lena  had  to  remain  in  bed.  Paltiel  and  I  didn't  speak  a  word.  We  avoided  looking  each  oth-  er  in  the  eye.  I  was  so  exhausted  thatI  dozed  most  of  the  time,  my  head  drop-  ping  again  and  again.  I  was  too  numb  even  to  be  ashamed.  Before  I  entered  the  ship,  Paltiel  handed  me  two  huge  envelopes  full  of  manuscripts  and  said,  &quot;We  both  gained  a  lot  from  your  visit:  I  gained  a  true  reader  and  Lena  gained  a  true  dybbuk.&quot;  I  hoped  that  this  would  be  the  end  of  my  bizarre  encounter,  but  when  I  returned  to  New  York  from  my  [REDACTED]  556e6974656420537461746573n  journey  I  found  three  more  manuscripts  andtwo  forty-page  let-  ters  from  Lena-one  in  Yiddish,  one  in  Polish.  Lena  revealed  to  me  that  her  love  for  me  had  begun  when  we  were  still  in  [REDACTED]  and  that  she  received  vibrations  and  telepathic  messages  about  my  coming  to  her  long  before  Paltiel  knew  of  my  trip.  I  tried  to  read  what  the  two  of  them  had  written,  but  the  manuscripts  and  letters  arrived  in  such  quick  succession  I  realized  that  no  time  would  be  left  me  for  anything  else.  From  glancing  here  and  there  into  Lena's  letters  I  learned  that  the  widow,  Paltiel's  Maecenas,  had  died,  leaving  him  quite  a  large  sum  of  money,  and  that  he  was  spending  it  to  publish  all  his  works  through  Myself  Publications.  Soon  the  books  started  to  arrive  at  unbelievably  short  intervals.  It  was  more  than  I  could  do  to  open  their  mail  anymore,  but  this  did  not  deter  them  from  continuing  to  send  books  and  let-  ters  fora  long  time.  Some  years  later  I  learned  that  Lena  had  died  from  cancer  and  that  Paltiel  had  been  put  away  in  a  mental  institution.  I  had  to  disposeof  the  mass  of  their  writings.  I  kept  only  one  large  book  by  Paltiel,  written  in  an  atrocious  style,  almost  unreadable,  and  a  few  letters  from  Lena-frightening  documents  of  what  loneliness  can  do  to  such  people  and  what  they  can  do  to  themselves. "