 b'EARLIER  today,  I  could  have  written  more  forcibly  about  the  influence  drifting  through  the  house.  By  now,  with  her  gone,  itis  van-  ishing,  and  with  its  fog  of  magic  and  evil,  and  my  thoughts  drift  apart,  away.  When  she  is  here,  everyone  is  very  aware  of  her.  I  am.  I  watch  her  eyes,  showing  white  above  the  dilated  pupils,  so  strangely  turned  down  and  sideways,  and  her  mouth,  which  can  be  tender  or  vulgar,  and  her  hair  in  all  shades  of  red-blue-henna-purple.  I  wonder  about  her  life  with  her  children,  with  lovers,  with  her  students  at  a  conservatory.  I  watch  almost  every  move  she  makes,  because  I  know  she  is  loaded  like  a  Molotov  cocktail  and  that  she  hates  it.  I  feel  she  is  aware  at  some  levels  of  how  evil  she  may  be,  and  the  more  in-  nocent  sides  of  her  are  afraidof  this.  She  is  a  fine  artist.  What  is  more,  she  has  learned  to  be  articulate,  and  her  opinions  are  mostly  acute  and  well  phrased.  She  is  a  force  that  is  at  once  blame-  less  and  sick  and  wicked,  I  believe-at  times  very  alluring,  and  at  times  coarse-  faced  or  blanched  or  haggard.  Once  last  night  when  she  was  crouched  in  front  of  the  hearth  she  looked  like  a  piece  of  bone,  dried  of  all  human  blood.  That  was  after  the  small  Franklin  stove  seemed  to  spew  out  its  logs,  which  rolled  against  her  back.  Never  had  such  a  thing  happened  before  in  my  house,  and  perhaps  it  never  will  again  until  this  same  woman  sits  there  in  front  of  her  rare  wooden  lirofassa,  tinkling  on  its  keys  and  talking  about  old  instruments,  and  waiting  to  die  or  live.  She  was  waiting  all  night,  but  she  always  has  been.  I  sat  too  far  away  tohelp,  and  I  watched  the  scene  as  if  I  were  in  a  theatre,  but  with  an  animal  curiosity  as  to  whether  she  would  flame  like  a  torch  or  turn  into  ash.  She  was  dressed  less  outlandishly  than  usual,  in  a  thick-  ly  embroidered  Turkish  vest  lined  with  smelly  lamb  or  goat  pelts,  over  a  flam-  mable  red  turtleneck  and  beige  slacks,  and  her  many-colored  hair  hung  loose-and  yes,  she  could  have  gone  up  in  one  burst  of  brightness.  The  other  people  in  the  room  screamed  and  beat  at  her  furs  and  leather  and  hair  and  kicked  at  the  blazing  bits  of  hot  wood,  and  she  pushed  the  ancient  lyre  away  and  sat  there  while  they  all  struck  at  her.  Her  face  was  withdrawn,  not  frightened,  and  I  watched  it,  trapped  by  distance  and  perhaps  ennui,  and  rec-  ognized  her  welcoming  ofthe  incident.  She  has  told  me  that  she  is  disaster-  prone.  I  think  of  Malcolm  Lowry,  who  seemed  to  invite  holocaust.  I  think  of  the  books  of  Charles  [REDACTED].  Yes,  it  is  logical,  when  there  is  a  peculiar  force  like  this  woman.  She  does  not  invoke  forces:  she  is  one.  She  is  frightening,  and  I  was  re-lieved  today  to  wave  her  a  truly  af-  fectionate  and  concerned  goodbye.  &quot;She  is  gone,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Now  I  can  light  a  lamp,  or  the  stove,  or  especially  the  hearth,  without  risking  all  our  lives.&quot;  At  times,  she  is  aware  of  her  peculiar  power  to  attract  destruction.  The  odd  thing  is  that  she  never  really  does-she  skirts  it,  so  that  her  own  body,  a  room,  a  building,  a  busload  of  children,  a  freighter  she  rides  on  are  all  of  them  in  imminent  danger  and  are  often  damaged,  but  she  emerges  pale  and  shocked  with  the  shaken  survivors,  and  they  feel  grateful  to  each  other,  and  unaware  of  anything  but  how  close  they  have  come  to  pure  horror.  Many  interruptions  in  both  time  and  space,  and  my  conviction  that  this  per-  son  has  supernatural  power  has  grown  less  sure.  I  realize  that  she  herself  put  the  suspicion  into  my  mind  several  years  ago  when  she  came  here  and  flitted  in  and  out,  up  the  canyon,  once  wearing  bound  around  her  waist  and  hanging  from  her  belt  long  strands  of  moss  pulled  from  the  old  trees.  Her  hair  was  frowzy.  Her  eyes  were  mostly  vacant,  and  her  mouth,  with  its  fine  pearly  teeth,  wore  a  remote  smile.  I  won-  dered  how  much  she  could  be  acting  a  part.  I  did  not  think  more  about  it,  although  a  man  who  met  her  that  eve-  ning  said  he  would  never  eat  anything  she  cooked,  because  of  the  potions  she  would  put  into  it.  She  gave  the  impres-  sion  of  casting  a  spell,  plainly,  and  now  I  think  seriously  ofthe  incident  of  the  Franklin  stove  and  wonder  if  she  is  an  agent  or  is  herself  possessed  of  supernatural  powers,  no  matter  how  innocently.  I  considered  this  a  few  minutes  ago  when  I  rubbed  my  right  forearm  and  felt  an  unfamiliar  bump  there.  It  was  a  small  deep  gouge  my  cat  Charles  made  last  night  through  the  sleeve  of  my  jacket.  It  is  the  first  time  he  has  ever  drawn  blood  from  me.  It  is  now  mildly  infected  but  seems  to  be  healing.  Charles,  I  noticed,  in  my  al-  most  clinical  watching  of  the  woman,  was  impertinent-taunting  and  mali-  cious.  His  tail  switched  furiously  even  when  nobody  appeared  to  be  noticing  him.  Never  has  he  seemed  as  evil  as  when  this  woman  is  here,  last  night  and  before.  This  early  morning,  instead  of  coming  softly  to  the  door  of  my  bath-  room  when  he  heard  I  was  in  there  readying  myself  for  the  day,  he  yowled  loudly  right  by  the  bed,  and  then  paced  outside,  and  yowled  even  more  un-  reasonably  at  the  other  bathroom  door  and  then  at  my  bedroom  door-all  a  nervous,  vicious,  defiant  protest  of  something  I  could  not  know  about.  In  ' b"the  tub  of  the  guest  bathroom  were  two  blobs  of  blood  and  spleen:  two  small  animals  dragged  through  his  little  door  and  past  the  woman's  bed  and  into  the  tub  to  be  eaten.  Sometimes  there  is  one  such  signal  of  Charlie's  hunting,  but  two?  One  time  when  she  was  here,  she  sat  by  the  fire-she  crouches  and  squats  in  a  lithe  way,  so  that  other  people  wish  they  were  there  with  her  on  the  floor,  and  sometimes  they  do  get  down  with  her,  always  by  the  crackling  fire-and  she  was  teasing  Charles.  It  made  a  be-  guiling  picture.  But  his  tail  lashed  back  and  forth  ferociously,  and  finally  I  murmured  to  her,  under  the  talk  of  several  people,  that  he  was  growing  too  excited.  She  kept  on  teasing  him  (or  heher?).  Then  she  unwound  her-  self  and  left  the  room,  and  he  went  outside.  Later,  I  went  into  her  bath-  room  and  found  it  quite  bloodied:  a  wet  stained  towel  hidden  in  a  corner  of  the  long  sink,  another  bloodier  one  on  the  laundry  basket,  a  fresh  roll  of  toilet  paper  that  had  been  used  asa  kind  of  blotter  on  a  gash  or  cut.  I  cleaned  up  the  place  and  returned  to  the  fireside  where  she  was  sitting.  She  looked  pale  and  beautiful,  and  I  saw  she  had  put  Band-Aids  and  Kleenex  on  claw  cuts  on  one  arm  and  on  one  leg.  I  said  nothing.  That  night,  Charles  never  came  back  through  his  door,  and  I  did  not  see  him  until  after  she  left,  about  noon.  Last  night,  though,  she  was  aware  of  his  menace,  and  when  she  started  to  play  with  him-another  &quot;picture&quot;  of  the  two  of  them  so  lithe  and  alluring  with  the  firelight-she  looked  up  at  me  and  said,  &quot;I  remember  that  you  told  me  to  watch  his  tail  for  danger.&quot;  She  pushed  him  away  and  he  stalked  over  to  me  and  sank  one  claw  into  my  fore-  arm,  and  then  left  the  house.  It  was  an  odd  turn  of  the  wheel,  I  thought.  When  the  logs  rolled  onto  her  back  as  if  they  were  pushed  from  behind  or  almost  as  if  they  jumped  toward  her,  I  thought  vaguely  of  Charles,  of  the  power  generated  willy-nilly  between  him  and  her.  &quot;Just  get  the  hot  ones  off  the  rug,&quot;  Isaid  calmly,  mildly.  &quot;Kick  them  onto  the  tiles-don't  worry.&quot;  I  felt  foolish,  but  knew  that  I  must  not  interfere  in  any  way-any  way.  IfI  did,  she  might  suddenly  go  up  in  flames.  This  was  a  fact.  Neither  she  nor  the  lirofassa  was  hurt.  Soon  after  she  had  played  acou-  ple  of  old  melodies  on  it  while  it  was  still  by  the  fire,  she  closed  the  lid  and  leaned  back  toward  the  cooling  hearth,  where  I  had  finally  put  a  firescreen  that  should  perhaps  have  been  there  from  the  beginning,  and  across  the  room  from  me  she  looked  like  a  ghost.  Her  face  was  chalk  white,  with  deep  eyepits.  She  was  exhausted.  But  she  moved  the  strange  instrument  to  the  opposite  side  of  the  room  for  the  night.  THOUGHT  of  the  time  she  wandered  over  the  land  here,  draped  with  garlands  of  moss.  Then  she  had  told  me  she  felt  doomed  to  terrible  disasters  and  catastrophes.  Wherever  she  went,  she  said,  accidents  followed  her.  No,  they  did  not  happen  to  her  but  to  other  people.  She  would  be  in  a  car  and  make  a  strange  skid,  and  behind  her  an  unfamiliar  car  would  go  off  the  road  and  kill  three  occupants.  She  would  go  to  the  fortieth  floor  in  an  elevator,  and  on  its  way  down  it  would  crash  and  kill  several  people.  She  would  go  to  a  restaurant  and  eat  a  good  dinner  and  read  the  next  day  that  twenty-six  people  had  been  hospitalized  for  violent  poisoning  from  the  same  dish  she  had  eaten  in  the  same  place.  She  was  doomed.  I  told  her  she  must  break  the  spell,  go  to  an-  other  clime.  To  my  surprise  I  learned  that  she  did-to  4974616c79-and  that  when  she  returned  she  was  very  strong  and  blooming  and  creative.  We  communi-  cated  by  letters  now  and  again,  and  a  few  times  she  drove  here  with  a  friend  or  two  to  see  me.  She  looked  well:  somewhat  zany  clothes,  increasingly  grotesque  dyed  hair,  an  indefinable  helplessness  about  her  manner  in  spite  of  her  almost  lifelong  experience  of  being  before  an  audience  as  a  musical  prodigy.  Last  night  and  this  morning,  I  was  very  aware  of  her  supernatural  power.  I  know  she  is  sometimes  aware  of  it,  too,  and  I  think  that  she  exploits  it  to  add  to  her  appeal  as  a  creative  lovely  being.  It  is  frightening.  But  how  can  one  call  the  local  sheriff  and  say,  &quot;A  witch  is  loose!&quot;  Meanwhile,  I  am  glad  to  be  alone.  Charles  is  withdrawn.  My  arm  hurts  a  little  but  not  enough  to  worry  about.  I  hear  the  thin,  almost  wheezy  sound  of  theold  instrument,  and  watch  with  curiosity  as  logs  roll  out  of  the  Franklin  stove  and  people  leap  in  horror  to  keep  her  from  burning  like  atorch.  "