 b"SAY  you're  frightened.  Admit  it.  -In  [REDACTED],  by  the  moun-  tains.  In  [REDACTED],  by  the  sea.  Everywhere,  by  breaking  glass.  -Say  you're  frightened.  Confess.  -Timid  as  a  stag.  They've  got  a  meter  wired  to  my  sheet.  I  don't  know  what  it  measures,  I  get  a  dollar  a  night.  When  I  wake  suddenly,  I  no-  tice  it's  there.  I  watch  my  hand  aging,  sing  a  little  song.  -Were  you  invited  to  the  party?  -Yes,  I  was.  Stood  there  smiling.  I  thought,  Those  are  tight  pants,  how  kind  of  her.  Wondered  if  she  was  or-  ange  underneath.  What  shall  we  do?  Call  up  Mowgli?  Ask  him  over?  Do  you  like  tongue?  Sliced?  With  mush-  rooms?  Is  it  a  private  matter?  Is  Scriabin  as  smart  as  he  looks?  This  man's  a  fool-why  are  you  talking  to  him?  Yes,  his  clothes  are  interesting,  but  inside  are  dull  bones.  -This  gray  light,  I  don't  see  how  you  stand  it.  -A  firestorm  of  porn  all  around-  orange  images,  dunes  and  deserts.  Bursts  of  quarrelling  through  the  walls.  I  wonder  who  the  people  are?  I  tried  that  Cuisine  Minceur,  didn't  like  it.  Oh,  it  looks  pretty-  -Say  you're  frightened.  -I'm  frightened.  By  flutes  and  flower  girls  and  sirens.  We  get  a  lot  of  sirens  because  of  the  hospital.  By  cof-  fee,  dead  hanging  plants,  people  who  think  too  fast,  vestments  and  bells.  -Get  some  Vitamin  E.  I  take  eight  hundred  units.  -The  sound  of  glass  breaking.  I  thought,  Oh  Christ,  not  again.  The  last  time  they  got  a  bicycle,  fancy  Japanese  bicycle  somebody'd  left  in  the  hall.  We  changed  the  lock.  Guy  left  his  crowbar.  Actually  it  wasn't  a  crow-  bar  it  was  a  jack  handle.  -I'm  not  afraid  of  crime,  there's  got  to  be  crime,  it's  the  manner  or  mode  that-  I  mean  if  they  could  just  take  it  out  of  your  bank  account,  by  punching  a  few  buttons  or  something.  ...  -I'm  not  afraid  of  snakes.  There  was  a  snake-handling  bunch  where  we  spent  the  summers.  I  used  to  go  to  their  meetings  now  and  again,  do  a  little  handling.  -Not  afraid  of  the  mail,  not  so  much  as  I  used  to  be,  all  those  threaten,  ing  letters,  I  just  say  sticks  and  stones,  sticks  and  stones,  see  the  triage  nurse.  -It's  only  when  you  stop  to  think  about  it.  I  don't  stop.  -Not  afraidof  hurricanes  because  we  used  to  have  them,  where  I  lived,  not  afraid  of  tarantulas,  used  to  have  them  too,  they  jump,  have  to  chop  them  up  with  a  hoe,  long-handled  hoe  as  opposed  to  the  stoop  hoe,  by  prefer-  ence.  -Nature  in  general  not  seen  as  an-tipathetic.  Nor  are  other  people,  ex-  cept  for  those  who  want  to  slap  your  ears  back  without  first  presenting  their  carefully  reasoned,  red-white-and-blue  threats.  -Behavior  in  general  a  wonderful  sea,  in  which  we  can  swim,  or  leap,  or  stumble.  -She  got  out  of  bed  and,  doing  a  cute  little  walk,  walked  to  the  bath-  room.  I  dreaded  the  day  I  would  see  her  real  walk.  -There's  the  sunset  gun.  That  means  we  can  loosen  up  and  get  friendly.  Think  we  can  get  any  of  that  government  money?  -I  sent  forthe  forms.  Merrily  merrilymerrily  merrily.  -Think  we  can  getus  some  of  that  good  per  diem?  -If  you  decide  to  run  for  it  a  bus  is  better.  No  one's  seated  facing  you.  They've  got  bigger  windows  now,  and  the  drivers  are  usually  reliable.  -Well  that's  one  thing  I  want  to  stay  away  from.  Flight,  I  mean.  Too  much  like  defeat.  -But  when  I  get  to  all  these  strange  places  they  seem  empty.  No-  body  on  the  streets  and  I'm  not  used  to  that.  Their  restaurants  all  have  the  same  things:  filet,  surf  'n'  turf,  prime  rib.  Spend  a  few  days  in  a  hotel  and  then  check  out,  leaving  a  dollar  or  two  for  the  maids.  -Turkeying  around  trying  to  get  situated.  -Searching  the  room  for  someone  to  go  to  bed  with.  W  hat  if  she  agrees?  -That's  happened  to  me  several  times.  You  just  have  to  be  honest,  -The  love  of  gain  is  insatiable.  This  is  true.  -What  are  you  afraid  of?  Morn-  ings,  noons,  or  nights?  -Mornings.  I  send  out  a  lot  of  postcards.  -Take  a  picture  of  this  exception-  ally  dirty  window.  Its  grays.  I  think  I  can  get  you  a  knighthood,  I  know  a  guy.  What  about  the  Eternal  Return?  -Distant,  distant,  distant.  Thanks  for  calling  Jim  it  was  good  to  talk  to  you.  -They  played  &quot;One  O'Clock  Jump,&quot;  &quot;Two  O'Clock  Jump,&quot;  &quot;Three  O'Clock  Jump,&quot;  and  &quot;Four  O'Clock  Jump.&quot;  They  were  very  good.  I  saw  them  on  television.  They're  all  dead  now.  -That  scare  you?  -Naw  that  doesn't  scare  me,  -That  scare  you?  -Naw  that  doesn't  scare  me.  -What  scares  you?  -My  hand  scares  me.  It's  not  well.  " b"-Hear  that?  That's  wolf  talk,.  Not  bad  is  it?  -Scarcely  had  I  reloaded  when  a  black  rhinoceros,  a  female  as  it  proved,  stood  drinking  at  the  water.  -Let  me  give  you  a  hint:  Find  me  one  animal  that  is  capable  of  personal  friendship.  -So  I  decided  it  was  about  time  we  got  gay.  I  changed  the  record,  that  helped,  and  fiddled  with  the  lights-  -Call  up  Bomba  the  Jungle  Boy?  Get  his  input?  -Fixed  up  the  Kool-Aid  with  some  stuff  I  had  with  me.  Complicated  the  d\xc3\xa9cor  with  carefully  placed  items  of  lawn  furniture,  birdbaths,  sundials,  mirrored  globes  on  stands  ...  -That  set  toes  to  tapping,  did  it?  -They  were  pleased,  We  danced  Inventions  &amp;  Sinfonias.  It  wasn't  bad.  It  was  a  success.  -It  is  this  that  the  new  portraits  are  intended  to  celebrate.  -Then,  out  of  another  chute,  the  bride  appeared,  caracolling  and  sun-  fishing  across  the  arena.  -I  knew  her.  I  was  very  fond  of  her.I  am  very  fond  of  her.  I  wish  them  well.  -As  do  I.  She's  brave.  -Think  we  can  get  some  of  that  fine  grant  money?  -If  we  can  make  ourselves  un-  derstood.  If  I  applaud,  the  actors  un-  derstand  that  I  am  pleased.  If  I  take  a  needle  and  singe  it  with  a  match,  you  understand  that  I  have  picked  up  a  splinter  in  my  foot.  If  I  say  &quot;Have  any  of  the  English  residents  been  mur-  dered?,&quot;  you  understand  that  I  am  cognizant  of  native  unrest.  IfI  hand  you  two  copies  ofa  thesis  bound  in  black  cloth,  you  understand  that  I  am  trying  to  improve  myself,  Appeals  to  patriotism,  small-boat  warnings  up.  -Say  you're  frightened.  -I'm  frightened,  But  maybe  not  tomorrow.  -Well  that's  one  thing  I  want  to  stay  away  from.  You  can  get  mad  in-  stead.  I  got  mad,  really  got  mad.  -Put-on  anger.  A  technique  of  managers.  -Got  so  mad  I  coulda  bit  a  chisel  in  two.  -And  very  graciously.  Skin  of  dreams,  paint  marks,  red  scratches,  grass  stains.  We  watched  &quot;60  Min-  utes.&quot;  Fed  on  ixias,  wild  garlic,  the  core  of  aloes,  gum  of  acacias.  She's  gone  now,  took  an  early  plane.  How  do  I  feel?  O.K.  -Another  bright  glorious  day.  How  do  you  feel?  Have  you  tried  to  get  a  drink  on  one  of  these  new  trains?  It's  as  easy  as  pie.  Have  you  got  anything  we  could  put  over  the  windows?  Tar-  paper  or  maybe  some  boards?  Do  you  want  to  hear  &quot;The  Battle  Hymn  of  the  Republic&quot;?  Is  there  any  more  of  this  red?  -Jugs  and  jugs.  Two  weeks  would  do  it,  two  weeks  in  a  VW  Rabbit.  -Going  home.  -No,  thank  you.  -You're  afraid  of  it?  -Indeed,  do  I  still  live?  -What  are  you  afraid  of?  -One  old  man  alone  in  a  room.  Two  old  men  alone  in  a  room,.  Three  old  men  alone  in  a  room.  -Well  maybe  you  could  talkto  them  or  something.  -And  say:  Howdy,  have  you  heard  about  pleasure,  have  you  heard  about  fun?  Let's  go  out  and  bust  up  a  bar,  it's  been  a  long  time.  What  are  you  up  to,  what  are  your  plans?  Still  lifting  weights?  I've  been  screwing  all  night,  how  'bout  you?  &quot;You  please  me,  hap-  piness!&quot;  -Well  I  don't  think  about  this  stuff  a  lot  of  the  time.  -Humility  is  barefoot,  Lewdness  is  physically  attractive  and  holds  a  sprig  of  colewort,  the  Hour  is  a  wheel,  and  Courage  is  strangling  a  lion,  by  shov-  ing  a  mailed  fist  down  its  throat.  -How  didthe  party  end?  -I  wasn't  there.  Got  to  scat,  I  said,  got  to  get  away,  got  to  creep,  it's  that  time  of  night.  Matthew,  Mark,  Luke,  and  John,  bless  the  bed  that  I  lie  on.  -Say  you're  frightened.  -Less  and  less.  I  have  a  smoke  de-  tector  and  tickets  to  everywhere.  I  have  a  guardian  angel  blind  from  birth  and  a  packet  of  Purple-top  White  Globe  turnip  seeds,  for  the  roof.  -Want  to  see  my  collection  of  bass  clarinets?  Want  to  see  my  collection  of  painters  ears?  This  gray  light,  I  don't  see  how  you  stand  it.  -I  grayed  it  up  myself.  Sets  off  the  orange.  -A  fine  person.  Took  the  Fire  De-  partment  exam  and  passed  it.  That's  just  one  example.  -All  women  are  mortal,  she  ex-  plained  to  me,  and  Caius  is  a  woman,  -Say  you're  not  frightened.  In-  spire  me.  -After  a  while,  darkness,  and  they  give  up  the  search. "