 b"I  STEP  into  the  elevator.  It  is  an  old  elevator.  One  of  thegreatold  elevators.  Bands  of  aggressive  metal  binding  in  pastels.  The  ascent  is  not  quite  smooth,  but  then  in  those  days  there  was  no  emphasis  on  ascent  itself-the  novelty  was  enough.  And  the  decoration.  That  incredible  care.  Smooth  bands  of  chrome  turning  the  corners  (smoothing  the  angles  into  curves),  providing  just  that  frisson  of  claustrophobia  sufficient  to  draw  one's  mind  to  the  experience.  None  of  that  now,  of  course.  None  of  that  care.  No  understanding  of  the  heavy  colors.  And  all  the  trash  asked  to  all  the  parties.  The  elevator  stops.  By  pulling  apart  the  doors  with  all  my  force,  I  can  see  a  reception  area.  The  doors  fly  open.  A  receptionist  is  startled.  She  fingers  her  throat.  She  is  wearing  one  of  the  new  medic-alert  necklaces.  It  spells  out  &quot;Diabetes&quot;  in  electroplate  script.  She  recognizes  me  and  smiles.  I  enter  the  office  of  Morgan  Aspair,  the  daughter  of  the  legendary  produc-  er  Hemming  Aspair  and  herself  a  film  entrepreneur.  I  just  slip  in  and  sit  in  the  corner  and  don't  say  a  word.  Sometimes  when  I  interview  people,  I  go  to  the  door  and  ring  the  bell  and  take  out  my  pad  and  sit  in  an  obvious  chair  and  ask  questions  like  &quot;In  trying  to  reach  an  opinion  about  the  word  'feminine'  versus  the  word  'feminist,  is  there  any  contradiction  in  the  fact  that  in  your  last  film  you  play  a  very  feminine  woman-in  the  sense  that  she  gives  up  her  job  in  Legal  Aid  to  go  travelling  around  the  country  looking  for  a  man-while  in  your  per-  sonal  life  you  continue  to  be  identified  with  radical  feminist  causes?&quot;  Some-  times  I  do  more  in-depth  work.  On  the  tape  recorder.  Staying  close  to  get  the  atmosphere,  going  through  the  open  drawers,  looking  through  the  stubs.  Sometimes  I  make  a  special  arrangement.  Morgan,  at  this  mo-  ment,  is  having  trou-  ble  catching  her  breath.  The  feeling,  I  know,  is  of  a  small  obstruc-  tion.  Small  in  that  she  cannot  be  sure  exactly  where  it  is.  Small  in  that  she  may  be  imag-  ining  it.  She  uses  short,  rapid  intakes  of  breath.  Into  a  rhythm,  and  then  the  obstruction  (or  the  sense  of  the  obstruction)  lessens.  Her  left  hand  goes  to  her  throat  to  feel  the  pulse  there,  and  the  rhythm  of  breathing.  The  charm  bracelet  on  her  left  wrist  makes  small  noises.  I  know  that  bracelet,  from  many  days  of  slip-  ping  into  this  office  and  watching.  Dif-  ferent  charms  from  different  times.  A  tiny  gold  cocktail  shaker,  A  mustard  seed  encased  in  crystal.  A  replica  of  her  father's  house  at  the  beach,  done  to  scale.  ''The  good  times,  the  big  times-  the  times  with  a  gloss  onthem,&quot;  as  Morgan  has  said.  Morgan  takes  one  charm  between  the  thumb  and  fore-  finger  of  her  right  hand:  a  tiny  gold  woman  and  tiny  gold  man.  Morgan  says,  as  though  to  herself,  &quot;Look.  The  woman  has  rolled  stockings.  Theman  has  anklets.  Who  would  have  the  fine-  ness  to  understand  that  now?  The  sub-  tlety?&quot;&quot;  She  pauses.  Possibly  so  that  I  can  catch  up,  although  she  pretends  not  to  notice  that  I  am  taking  notes.  Mor-  gan  and  I  have  one  of  the  special  ar-  rangements.  Morgan  drops  the  charm  and  brings  the  index  finger  of  her  right  hand  to  the  telephone  on  her  desk.  The  tele-  phone  dial  makes  little  skew  sounds  under  the  pressure  of  her  finger.  It  is  a  familiar  pattern  of  sounds-evidence  ofa  call  to  Vanessa,  her  sister,  in  New  York.  Morgan  holds  the  receiver  in  the  air-perhaps  soI  can  hear.  Vanessa's  phone  rings  and  rings.  I  put  my  right  hand  into  the  right  front  pocket  of  my  trousers.  Making  almost  no  sound,  I  touch  a  newspaper  clipping  I  have  placed  there.  With  only  a  slight  rustle,  I  bring  the  clipping  from  my  pocket.  It  is  a  clipping  from  the  &quot;Billy  Whisper&quot;  column:  &quot;Vanessa  Aspair  sits  by  her  phone,  lets  it  ring  and  ring,  just  won't  take  her  sister's  calls.  Billy  Whisper  didn't  want  to  tell.  ...  Billy  Whisper  tried to  keep  it  quiet.  ...  Billy  Whisper  couldn't  like  it  more.&quot;  Then  Morgan  says,  &quot;Billy  Whisper  is  such  a  vicious,  vicious  liar.  Billy  Whisper  is  such  filthy,  filthy  scum.  I  could  see  Billy  Whisper  with  his  teeth  pushed  down  his  throat.&quot;  I  replace  the  clipping  in  my  pocket.  Immediately  Morgan  is  less  tense,  experiences  less  stress.  Our  communication  is  that  close.  &quot;Columnists  used  to  have  such  style,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;All  my  little  birthday  parties.  All  the  people  who  came.  In  the  col-  umns,  efwaeys.&quot;  I  notice  a  little  hesita-  tion  in  Morgan's  voice.  This  means  that  she  wants  to  know  if  I  am  in  the  mood  to  have  her  talk  about  all  the  old  columns,  all  those  great  old  items.  I  keep  a  certain  silence,  and  Morgan  senses  that  we  should  talk  less  about  the  great  old  columns  and  more  about  Vanessa  justat  this  moment.  She  takes  a  little  pause,  time  enough  for  asmall  shift  in  emphasis,  time  enough  to  evade  the  obstruction  in  her  throat.  Then  she  says,  &quot;Vanessa  was  in  the  columns,  naturally.  But  less  often.  Mentioned  in  the  lists.  Filling  out  the  room.  Coming  in  later.  It  wasn't  her  fault,  of  course.  At  least,  not  at  first.  But  she  was  stingy  in  her  affections  Daddy  thought  so,  too-and  resentful.  Because  I  won  the  Dream  Search  when  I  was  fourteen.  Because  I  had  blond  hair  falling  straight  down  my  back.  Because  I  said  'You  and  what  army?&quot;  to  Jimmy  Cagney  in  such  a  cute  way  when  I  was  six  that  he  gave  me  a  whole  little  army  of  marzipan  soldiers-which  were  lead,  actually,  with  a  thin  layer  of  marzipan  over  the  metal,  which  I  Anew,  but  which  came  as  a  surprise  to  Vanessa  when  she  tried  to  steal  some  of  my  soldiers  and  bit  into  them  and  ended  up  in  a  situa-  tion  where  she  had  to  have  a  lot  of  work  done  in  her  mouth.  And  resent-  ful  because  I  was  so  close  to  Daddy.  Always  so  close  to  Daddy.&quot;  Morgan  turns  back  to  the  work  on  her  desk.  There  are  some  scripts  on  her  desk,  and  three  manila  folders.  She  works  with  the  scripts,  arranging  them in  a  way  I  understand.  All  at  once  she  takes  a  piece  of  paper  from  one  of  the  folders  and  places  it  on  top  of  the  folder.  Sometimes  when  Morgan  does  this,  it  means  that  she  wants  me  to  look  at  the  piece  of  paper  in-     " b"volved  if  I  can  do  it  without  her  catching  me.  I  move  forward  in  my  chair.  After  a  few  moments,  I  stand  up.  I  take  one  step.  I  can  read  the  word  &quot;Daddy&quot;  on  the  folder  tab.  I  take  two  steps.  I  can  read  every  word  on  the  paper.  It  is  a  letter  from  Alice  Rice:  Your  father  was  a  terribly  attractive  man.  Terribly  attractive  to  women.  If  he  spilled  wine  on  your  dress,  or  pinched  you  till  you  bruised,  or  did  anything  diffi-  cult,  he  sent  flowers  the  next  day,  always.  He  was  a  gentleman.  One  is  shy  about  saying  that  nowadays,  but  that  was  the  truth  of  it.  I  remember  once  at  my  house  (it  was  Bel  Air,  I  think,  before  we  moved  to  the  beach-I  don't  know  where  you  were,  but  not  there-maybe  away  at  school?)  I  was  a  little  upset.  I  was  upset,  frankly,  because  I  lost  the  lead  in  &quot;Designing  Woman&quot;  to  Betty  Bacall,  who  was  fabulous  in  the  part  and  who  had  a  name  that  rhymed  in  the  way  the  promotion  people  wanted-I  don't  know  if  you  remember  the  slogan  but  it  was  &quot;Peck  and  Bacall,  and  That's  Not  All!&quot;-and,  of  course,  now  I'm  thrilled  that  she  got  to  play  it,  but  them,  to  be  honest,  I  was  a  little  upset.  And  your  father  just  looked  at  me-that  look  of  his,  all  those  disfigurements  momentari-  ly  effaced-and  he  looked  straight  at  me-I  remember  it  perfectly-and  he  said,  &quot;Hell,  Mouse,  I'll  get  you  the  part.&quot;  That  tough-guy  voice,  you  see.  Hiding  the  real  manners.  Very  attractive.  Of  course,  he  never  did  a  thing  about  it.  Not  even  a  phone  call.  But  the  gesture,  you  see.  And,  of  course,  he  adored  you.All  those  lots  on  Melrose  Avenue  he  gave  you.  And  the  airplane  hangar,  or  what  was  that?  Morgan  twists  her  body  to  the  right,  away  from  me,  using  her  left  elbow  as  a  pivot.  Then  she  slides  her  elbow  and  lower  arm  very  slightly  in  my  di-  rection.  Morgan  has  moved  another  letter  toward  me,  as  though  by  accident.  Once  the  letter  is  within  my  view,  Morgan  lifts  her  arm  and  turns  her  back.  The  letter  is  from  Jimmy  Boam:  Your  father  was  a  very  charming  per-  son  despite  some  problems.  Your  father  was  terrified,  certainly,  buthe  had  great  style.  I  remember  once  when  he  was  coming  back  from  [REDACTED]  (this  was  before  he  became  so  terrified  of  travel)  and  we  were  together  on  one  of  those  big  Matson  Line  steamers  that  used  to  have  so  much  style,  and  he  began  to  cry  and  cry  and  cry  in  the  little  ship's  library  (which  was  done  in  blond  veneer,  the  kind  we  used  to  think  was  so  attrac-  tive!-which  I  threw  out  of  the  Brent-  wood  house,  finally,  six  or  seven  years  ago,  the  blond  veneer  stuff  that  I  had,  just  before  it  came  back  in  style!)  and  I  thought,  Here  we  go  again,  but  he  pulled  himself  together  in  time  for  drinks.  That  was  just  before  I  did  &quot;Mr.  Smith  Goes  to  Washington&quot;  with  Jimmy  Stewart.  Morgan  turns  around  in  her  seat.  She  faces  me  directly,  which  is  rarely  done  under  the  terms  of  our  special  arrangement.  &quot;&quot;We  had  it  all,&quot;  she  says  violently.  &quot;All  that  style.&quot; As  she  turns  away,  I  notice  a  crumpled  piece  of  paper  on  the  floor.  I  pick  it  up.  Taking  infinite  pains,  I  open  it,  smoothing  one  wrinkle  at  a  time,  doing  the  loud  parts  during  those  moments  when  Morgan  herself  has  made  a  noise.  It  is  the  last  page  of  a  handwritten  letter.  At  the  top  of  the  page  there  is  a  simple  engraved  line:  &quot;From  the  Desk  of  Mr.  Romino.&quot;  Underneath  this  there  is  a  vivacious  logo,  reading  &quot;Paul  Romino's  Vine  Room.&quot;  I  know  that  logo-of  course  Ido.  It  spread  all  over  the  Vine  Room:  on  those  giant  menus,  on  the  individu-  al  signs  at  each  table,  which  were  meant  to  be  stolen  and  the  cost  of  which  was  figured  into  the  cover  charge,  which  was  stiff.  I  read  the  writing  on  the  page:  Later,  perhaps,  not  so  good.  But  you  remember  the  birthday  party-was  it  perhaps  for  you?  In  your  honor?  When  he  put  your  head  in  the  cake  and  held  it  down  until  the  Turkish  men  who  kept  the  towels  in  the  bathroom  grabbed  his  arms  and  pinned  them  behind  his  back?  Was  this,  perhaps,  about  the  time  &quot;So  Glad&quot;  was  such  a  large  success?  That  amusing  show  about  competition  among  resorts?  MORGAN  leaves  the  building.  I  fol-  low  at  a  distance.  On  the  street,  I  see  her  in  her  new  Buick,  parked  at  the  curb.  I  take  a  newspaper  from  a  dispensing  machine  at  the  corner  and  move  casually  down  the  street  past  Morgan's  Buick.  I  no-  tice  that  the  rear  door  on  the  curb  side  has  been  left  unlocked.  I  open  the  door  and  en-  ter  the  car.  The  car  pulls  into  traffic.  Mor-  gan  drives  with  great  energy  and  distinction.  She  slips  an  eight-track  tape  into  the  machine.  For  a  few  moments  there  is  music:  snippets  of  &quot;If  You  Need  Me,&quot;  by  Wilson  Pickett,  and  &quot;Funny,&quot;  by  Maxine  Brown,  for  instance.  Making  as  little  noise  as  possible,  I  open  the  newspaper  to  the  &quot;Billy  Whisper&quot;  column.  The  third  item  says:  &quot;V  anessa  Aspair  won't  pick  up  her  sis-  ter's  calls,  and  will  make  her  own  deal  at  Paramount,  taking  her  mastectomy  script  with  her.  Billy  Whisper  " b"ought  to  keep  it  qui-  et.  ...  Billy  Whisper  ought  to  look  the  oth-  er  way....  But  Billy  Whisper  couldn't  like  it  more.&quot;  Morgan  has  the  sense  of  a  small  ob-  struction  in  her  throat.  She  puts  her  left  hand  to  the  top  of  her  throat  and  tries  to  establish  a  rhythm  of  breathing.  Then  she  brings  her  left  hand  down  to  the  steering  wheel,  and  with  the  index  finger  of  her  right  hand  she  changes  the  program  on  the  tape.  I  hear  her  voice  on  the  new  pro-  gram-something  she  has  recorded.  At  the  same  time,  I  hear  the  small  gasps  she  makes,  live,  as  she  seeks  to  establish  a  helpful  rhythm  of  breathing.  On  the  tape,  the  voice  of  Morgan  says,  &quot;T  hat  day.&quot;  There  is  a  pause.  I  sit  silently  in  my  seat.  We  drive  past  Costello's,  which  was  the  first  drive-in  restaurant  on  Wilshire  Boulevard.  In  that  great  nineteen-fifties  style.  &quot;That  day,&quot;  Morgan's  voice  says  again  on  the  tape.  &quot;Daddy  picked  me  up  at  school,  in  the  Buick.  'Up  for  a  spin,  Doll?&quot;  was  the  way  he  put  it.  Jaunty,  always.  &quot;The  Buick  was  a  Roadmaster  con-  vertible,  with  four  portholes  on  the  side.  Daddy  pointed  to  the  portholes.  Daddy  said,  'Did  you  ever  notice  that  when  you  buy  the  cheapest  Buick,  you  get  only  three?  Did  you  notice  that  when  you  move  up  to  the  next  class,  you  still  get  only  three?  And  in  the  next  class,  still  only  three?  You  got  to  go  all  the  way  to  the  top  of  the  line  to  get  that  fourth  porthole,  Doll?  &quot;That  day.  We  stopped  at  a  road-  side  restaurant,  Daddy  and  I.  Inside,  it  was  all  red.  Red  checked  oilcloth  had  been  glued  to  the  hatch  doors  where  the  different  flavors  of  ice  cream  were  kept.  Beverages  were  served  in  big  tumblers  of  red  glass.  We  satin  a  booth.  What  did  we  talk  about  that  day?  Daddy  had  a  million  plans.  'Ren-  dez-Vous'  was  a  smash  hit,  and  he  wanted  to  take  it  on  tour-not  with  Minnah  Murray,  who  was  the  star,  but  with  Alice  Rice.  He  wanted  Minnah  to  stay  in  New  York  and  go  into  re-  hearsal  with'Gale  Force  Winds,  a  calypso  musical.  On  the  personal  side  there  were  some  problems.  I  think  we  talked  about  my  brother,  Mike,  who  had  run  away  from  the  Sledge  School  to  join  Castro  in  43756261  but  who  had  had  an  attack  of  poor  nerves  in  [REDACTED]  and  was  resting  in  [REDACTED].  I  think  we  talked  about  Mother,  who  had  been  arrested  for  'Jlawning'-driving  her  powerful  Chevrolet  station  wag-  on  deep  into  the  newly  planted  lawns  of  twenty  or  thirty  suburban  homes.  Daddy  was  full  of  energy  and  wit  and  affection.  What  Vanessa  has  called  'the  magic  of  Daddy.  &quot;Unfortunately,  I  got  carried  away  and  brought  up  the  troublesome  issue  of  spending  Christmas  and  New  Year's  at  home  instead  of  under  supervision.  Daddy  just  looked  at  me.  'You  know  that's  my  pet  peeve,  Doll-all  that  stuff,&quot;  he  said.  I  smiled  and  slipped  one  of  the  big  red  tumblers  into  my  lap.&quot;  Morgan  changes  the  program  on  the  tape:  &quot;Mother.  Mother  in  red.  Mother  whipping  the  red  checked  cloth  off  the  table  in  the  Bel  Air  'Play  House'  to  play  like  a  bandit.  Just  her  eyes  peek-  ing  over  the  cloth.  Flashing  eyes-  like  a  bandit.  No  one  could  amuse  like  Mother.  But  forgetful,  sometimes.  Tying  Mike  up  and  putting  him  in  the  sports  closet  (where  there  was  every  kind  of  thing-the  big  croquet  mallets  from  [REDACTED],  those  wickets  made  from  the  good  heavy  wire,  the  good  birdies  for  badminton)  and  leaving  him  there  for  the  weekend  when  she  meant  it  to  be  just  until  the  end  of  a  screening.  And  aggressive.  When  she  walked  into  the  tack  room  and  saw  Daddy  with  Lilly  Landa,  when  she  saw  that  Daddy  had  his  tongue  in  Lilly  Landa's  ear,  she  got  into  the  Chevrolet  and  drove  to  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  where  Lilly  lived,  and  killed  all  of  Lilly  Landa's  dogs.  Twelve  of  them.  Those  cocker  spaniels  people  used  to  have.  Beautiful.  But  high-strung.  So  different  from  the  Mother  the  public  knew  in  'Pleasure  Craft'  and  Signal  Me'  and  'The  Roentgen  Story.&quot;  &quot;  This  is  new  material.  Morgan  has  held  my  interest.  She  turns  off  the  ma-  chine  so  I  can  catch  up.  THE  car  stops  for  a  traffic  light.  I  notice  a  man  in  a  vulgar  car.  After  the  light  changes,  the  vulgar  car  keeps  pace  with  our  Buick.  Morgan  looks  straight  ahead.  I  look  straight  ahead.  Then  the  vulgar  car  squeezes  left  so  that  we  are  forced  to  stop.  I  look  straight  ahead.  However,  I  sense  that  the  man  has  approached  our  car.  &quot;May  I  see  your  license  and  registra-  tion?&quot;  the  man  asks.  Morgan  looks  over  at  him.  I  look  over.  I  see  that  the  man  is  Johnny  Taffe,  new  head  of  production  at  Universal,  where  Mor-  gan  was  going  to  have  her  own  deal.  Quickly,  I  turn  away  and  look  straight  " b"ahead.  Morgan  continues  to  look  at  Johnny  Taffe.  He  has  tricked  her.  In  terms  of  body  movement  and  eye  contact,  and  in  terms  of  modifying  anoth-  er  person's  response  to  conform  with  one's  ex-  pectations  and  interests,  he  has  won.  At  the  mo-  ment  of  his  maximum  en-  ergy  output  he  throws  three  scripts  through  the  front  window  of  the  Buick  on  the  passenger  side.  &quot;Sorry,  sweetie,  I  have  topass  on  these,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;The  one  in  the  green  cover  didn't  have  a  hook;  the  one  in  the  red  cover  didn't  have  a  part;  the  one  in  the  brown  cover  just  didn't  get  me  off.&quot;  He  goes  back  to  his  car  and  calls  over  his  shoul-der,  &quot;Not  that  I  have  to  give  my  reasons.&quot;  OMETIMES  when  Morgan  is  a  little  up-  set,  she  drives  past  her  lots.  Morgan  owns  land  on  Melrose  Ave-  nue.  She  drives  past  her  lots  now.  She  toots  her  horn  as  we  go  by.  Then  she  stops  the  car,  gets  out,  and  goes  to  a  telephone  booth.  Out  of  respect  for  her  privacy  I  stay  in  the  car.  Morgan  has  turned  the  eight-track  tape  machine  back  on,  out  of  considera-  tion  for  me.  But  it  is  an  old  program.  One  I  know  by  heart.  About  the  col-  umns.  About  the  winter  of  1955,  when  Hemming  Aspair  took  her  off  sedation.  Took  her  out  on  the  town  for  two  months  and  then  dropped  her  cold.  &quot;That  blonde  that  Hemming  Aspair  took  nightclubbing-to  the  Blue  Boat,  to  the  Big  Ball  Club,  to  Jamey  Torey  Fortune's-was  me,&quot;  Morgan's  voice  says.  &quot;Morgan,  just  ten,  took  his  calls,  sipped  from  his  drink,  checked  his  new  gray  hat.&quot;  Reaching  over  the  front  seat,  I  hit  the  program  button  and  interrupt  Mor-  gan's  voice.  Sometimes  when  Morgan  begins  to  talk  too  much  (live  or  on  tape  )-about  the  great  old  night  clubs,  the  columns,  and  so  forth-I  geta  lit-  tle  edgy  and  we  have  to  switch  topics.  The  topic  on  the  new  program  has  to  do  with  real  estate,  which  suits  my  mood  better.  &quot;Daddy  gave  me  different  kinds  of  property  for  tax  reasons  some-  times,&quot;  Morgan's  voice  says  on  the  tape.  &quot;Mary  Ann,  Daddy's  secretary,  would  call  and  say  could  I  sign  some  papers,  and  I'd  go  into  the  office,  and  Mary  Ann  would  say,  'Here  and  here  and  here,'  and  I'd  sign.  Then  she'd  tell  me  what  it  was.  I  got  the  lots  on  Mel-  rose  that  way,  and  an  antique  shop,  and  a  percentage  of  'Pleasure  Craft,  and  part  ownership  of  an  airplane  hangar.  One  time  I  tried  to  take  a  few  friends  from  my  Attention  Group  to  see  the  airplane  hangar,  but  we  couldn't  find  it,  so  I  took  them  by  the  lots  on  Mel-  rose  Avenue  instead.  That  was  a  bad  time,  because  it  frightened  Daddy  when  I  mentioned  it  and  he  wouldn't  speak  to  me  for  several  months.  Some  years  later,  over  drinks,  he  explained  that  the  airplane  hangar  was  more  of  an  airplane  hangar  on  peper  than  it  was  an  actual  building.  I  said  I  was  sorry  that  I  had  done  something  to  frighten  him,  but  that  just  made  him  angry.&quot;  I  watch  Morgan  in  the  telephone  booth.  I  can  tell  that  the  sense  of  ob-  struction  has  become  more  powerful.  Her  mouth  is  open,  but  her  lips  do  not  move.  My  reading  of  her  total  physical  stance  is  that  she  is  gasping,  not  having  a  telephone  conversation.  When  she  returns  to  the  car,  she  is  shaking  very  slightly.  She  takes  thecar  into  traffic  and  with  her  right  index  finger  changes  the  program  on  the  tape  ma-  chine.  &quot;T  hat  day,&quot;  says  her  voice  on  tape.  &quot;'That  day,  in  theroadside  restaurant,  Daddy  got  very  excited  and  made  promise  after  promise.  He  promised  me  a  spot  on  'Wisecrack  Alley'-a  popular  television  show  during  the  nineteen-  fifties,  where  precociouschildren  tried  to  'top'  professional  entertainers.  He  promised  to  let  me  wear  more  sugges-  tive  clothing.  I  was  very  happy.  The  waitress  saw  that  we  were  having  a  good  time  and  said  that  we  looked  nice  together.  The  afternoon  sun  was  coming  in  through  the  windows,  which  had  red  curtains.  Two  very  fat  people  were  sitting  together,  laughing  and  laughing.  I  looked  at  them.  Daddy  said  something  I  didn't  hear,  and  I  said,  'What?&quot;  Then  Daddy  got  angry  and  said  the  whole  day  was  spoiled.  I  said  I  was  very  sorry.  When  I  said  that,  Daddy  got  madder,  because  what  I  had  said  seemed  to  be  an  implied  criticism.  The  fat  people  looked  over.  Then  the  waitress  came  up  and  said  not  to  worry,  because  Daddy  was  always  teasing  but  he  meant  well.  Daddy  was  silent  al-  most  all  the  way  back  to  school.  The  only  thing  he  said  was  'You  can  for-  get  about  &quot;Wisecrack  Alley,&quot;  Doll,  " b"embarrassing  me  that  way  in  front  of  strangers.&quot;  &quot;  Morgan  changes  the  program  on  the  tape.  The  next  program  is  Bad  Charley  singing  &quot;Turn  to  the  Ladies.&quot;  She  changes  the  program  again.  &quot;My  charm  bracelet,&quot;  Morgan's  voice  says  on  the  tape.  &quot;The  top  hat  and  the  mustard  seed.  Daddy  gave  me  the  mustard  seed-'For  good  luck,  Doll,&quot;  he  said.  I  stole  thetop  hat  from  Van  Cleef's  on  a  spree  with  Jimmy  Furdar,  Kay  Triyn,  and  Marty  Rupp  at  a  time  when  the  [REDACTED]  crowd  cared  about  nothing  but  shoplifting.&quot;  Morgan  turns  off  the  tape  machine.  She  looks  at  me  in  the  rearview  mir-  ror.  Eye  contact  is  unusual  under  the  terms  of  our  special  arrangement.  &quot;I  called  Vanessa,&quot;  Morgan  says.  &quot;She  didn't  pick  up.  I  called  her  serv-  ice,  and  they  said  she's  at  home  but  isn't  picking  up.  Then  I  called  my  service,  and  they  said  that  Vanessa  left  a  message  not  to  bother  to  call,  be-  cause  she  has  her  own  deal  with  Para-  mount.&quot;  Morgan  lowers  her  eyes  and  turns  the  tape  machine  back  on.  She  drives  with  great  intensity.  &quot;Daddy,&quot;  Morgan's  voice  says  on  the  tape.  &quot;The  night  he  told  me  that  he  and  Mother  were  getting  a  divorce,  he  pulled  out  a  pistol.  He  aimed  right  at  me  and  pulled  the  trigger,  but  all  it  did  was  go  click.  'Just  another  misfire,  Doll,&quot;  Daddy  said.&quot;  WE  head  toward  [REDACTED].  Some-  times  when  Morgan  is  very  up-  set,  she  takes  us  to  [REDACTED]  to  see  &quot;Dolly&quot;  Madison,  her  father's  best  friend  and  for  years  the  top  gossip  columnist  in  the  country-not  just  for  the  [REDACTED]  trash  but  for  the  real  social  crowd.  Dolly  comes  from  a  very  fine  family  and  grew  up  in  a  famous  house  on  the  North  Shore  of  Long  Island,  but  when  the  zoning  was  over-  thrown,  he  moved  [REDACTED],  He  gave  up  his  daily  column  when  he  moved,  but  he  continues  to  write  a  monthly  round-  up  for  Sno43616e616461  Leisure,  a  very  influ-  ential  magazine  distributed  free  at  ski  resorts.  In  some  ways,  Morgan  is  clos-  er  to  Dolly  Madison  than  to  anyone  else,  maybe  because  he  seems  to  belong  to  another  world-her  father's  world,  where  style  and  class  counted  for  something.  The  tires  of  our  Buick  make  a  noise  on  the  bluestone  of  Dolly's  driveway.  Dolly  has  the  good  bluestone,  and  the  noise  is  luxurious.  The  door  is  opened  by  an  impeccable  Irish  maid  in  a  starched  uniform  trimmed  with  lace.  I  look  just  below  her  lace  collar  (be-  cause  I  know  to  look  there),  and  I  see  the  tiny  legend  &quot;Property  of  Univer-  sal  Players.&quot;  It  is  Dolly's  whim  that  his  servants  should  come  from  can-  celled  television  series  He  pays  close  attention  to  the  ratings  and  hovers  around  marginal  shows  in  a  way  that  producers  find  unnerving.  The  maid  shows  us  to  the  patio,  where  Dolly  is  sitting  in  a  little  wrought-iron  chair  in  front  of  a  wrought-iron  table,  upon  which  tea  things  have  been  laid.  Dolly  is  the  last  person  in  Los  Angeles  to  have  tea  every  afternoon.  On  the  table  there  is  an  arrangement  of  the  most  delicious-  looking  cakes  and  cookies.  Pastries  stuffed  with  the  richest  cream  and  chocolate,  tiny  shells  filled  with  fresh,  fresh  berries,  and  scones  made  with  the  finest  ingredients.  This  is  terribly generous  of  Dolly,  because  he  can't  keep  a  thing  down,  himself,  and  lives  on  artificial  nutrients.  &quot;Now,  darling,  I  want  all  your  news,&quot;  Dolly  says,  his  small  hand  on  Morgan's  sleeve.  Morgan  does  not  bring  up  Vanessa's  deal  with  Para-  mount.  She  tells  him  about  one  or  two  problems  her  daughter,  Clarke,  thir-  teen,  is  having  keeping  her  hands  to  herself,  and  about  a  project  that  is  very  important  to  her-a  remake  of  &quot;Ram-  pant,&quot;  her  father's  picture  about  alco-  holism  in  the  legal  profession,  updated  to  encompass  drug  abuse.  &quot;But,  of  course,  'Rampant'  was  not  a  success,&quot;  Dolly  says.  &quot;I  mean,  when  your  father  did  it.  Have  one  of  those  delicious  little  chocolate  cakes.&quot;  Morgan  takes  a  chocolate  cake  and  explains  that  she  wants  to  do  her  &quot;Rampant&quot;  remake  as  a  tribute  to  her  father.  &quot;Now,  that's  sweet,&quot;  Dolly  says.  He  looks  closely  at  her  chocolate  cake.  &quot;&quot;Maybe  I'll  just  have  a  small  bite,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;What  went  wrong,  Dolly?&quot;  Mor-  gan  asks  suddenly.  &quot;We  had  every-  thing.&quot;  &quot;Wrong?&quot;  Dolly  says.  &quot;Nothing  went  wrong.  It's  just  the  same  as  ever.  You  still  have  everything.&quot;  He  makes  a  small  sound  and  removes  the  bite  of  cake  from  his  mouth.  &quot;The  truth  of  it  is,&quot;  he  says,  &quot;I  can't  keep  a  thing  down.&quot;"