 b"GIACOMO  didn't  know  the  name  of  the  town  he  was  coming  to,  or  whether  he  was  in  Ten-  nessee,  [REDACTED],  or  [REDACTED].  Prob-  ably  still  in  [REDACTED],  he  thought.  It  was  dark  and  wintry.  There  was  no  sign  yetof  milder  weather,  though  he  was  edging  south,  and  had  been  doing  so  since  leaving  Cape  Cod,  where  he  lived.  He  was  on  the  second  lap  of  his  journey  and  had  driven  almost  six  hundred  miles  today.  He  wouldn't  get  to  his  destination-the  westernmost  tip  of  [REDACTED]-for  another  two  days.  He  was  going  to  a  university  there,  to  teach  a  semester  course  on  Italian  po-  etry  in  translation.  He  hadn't  really  been  trained  to  be  a  teacher,  nor  did  he  feel  like  one,but  he  had  done  a  good  deal  of  translating,  and  gradually  he  had  published  enough  to  get  temporary  teaching  jobs  here  and  there,  which  paid  a  lot  better  than  publishers  did  and  were  less  work.  He  had  come  from  4974616c79  twenty  years  be-  fore  with  his  556e6974656420537461746573n  wife.  She  some-  times  went  with  him  to  a  university,  but  she  usually  preferred  to  stay  at  home.  In  his  youth,  he  had  harbored  the  illusion  that  he  might  make  his  liv-  ing  as  a  poet.  Now,  driving,  he  was  re-  minded  of  Thucydides'  account  of  the  Athenian  war  against  Syracuse,  which  he  had  translated  when  he  was  a  stu-  dent.  He  remembered  that  in  the  end,  after  the  Athenians  had  been  defeated  and  had  no  means  of  returning  home,  some  of  them  made  their  living  by  trav-  elling  around  Sicily  reciting  Greek  poems.  He  felt  a  little  like  them.  The  monotony  of  the  expressway  had  induced  him  to  take  an  exit  onto  a  road  which  also  led  southwest  and  which,  as  he  saw  on  the  map,  pretty  much  ran  parallel  to  the  expressway,  though  at  some  distance  from  it.  He  had  in  mind  to  follow  this  road  for  an  hour  or  so,  to  look  for  a  bar  and  a  motel  or,  preferably,  an  inn  forthe  night,  and  rejoin  the  expressway  in  the  morning.  Though  he  passed  a  few  vil-  lages,  he  saw  no  inns  or  motels  or  even  bars.  Now  he  was  coming  to  a  town.  He  was  quite  tired,  and,  seeinga  bar  at  a  crossroads,  he  parked  his  car  on  the  opposite  side  of  the  street  from  it.  The  bar  had  no  name-only  a  neon  sign  advertising  a  brand  of  beer.  He  wouldn't  have  beer,  he  thought;  he'd  have  whiskey,  to  warm  him  up.  He  got  out,  locked  the  car,  and  im-  mediately  realized  he  had  left  the  keys  in  the  ignition.  Yes,  there  they  were  dangling,  shining  in  the  light  of  astreet  lamp.  And  the  windows  were  all  rolled  up,  an  extra  key  in  his  wife's  pocket-  book  at  home,  another  in  the  drawer  of  his  desk  there,  Well,  he  would  have  his  whiskey  first,  and  then,  if  he  could  get  a  coat  hanger,  try  to  raise  the  knob-something  he  had  never  done  or  seen  done,  but  had  heard  could  be  done.  He  entered  the  bar.  Men  turned  to  look  at  him  as  if  he  were  an  intruder.  He  wondered  if  he  had  opened  the  door  with  too  much  force  or  kept  it  open  a  moment  too  long,  allowing  a  cold  draft  to  enter.  Or  was  it  just  that  helooked  like  a  stranger?  He  was  wearing  a  blue  serge  suit,  while  they  all  wore  heavy  wool  shirts,  sweatshirts,  leather  jackets,  or  windbreakers.  For  an  instant,  he  thought  of  leaving,  but  he  always  hated  himself  when  fear  or  even  caution  dictated  the  course  of  his  actions,  and  he  needed  acoat  hanger.  Besides,  perhaps  he  was  misinterpreting  those  looks.  He  had  heard  a  lot  about  43616e616461ern  xenophobia,  about  policemen  charging  exorbitant  fines  and  even  ar-  resting  out-of-state  drivers  for  speed-  ing,  especially  if  they  had  a  New  York  license  plate  or  a  [REDACTED]  plate,  as  he  had,  but,  being  a  fairly  trusting  person  himself,  he  was  inclined  to  think  that  it  was  all  exaggerated,  this  hostil-  ity,  and  he  tended  to  be  skeptical  of  generalizations.  If  he  had  heard  about  43616e616461ern  mistrust,  he  had  also  heard  of  43616e616461ern  hospitality.  So  he  went  to  the  bar  casually,  even  a  little  jauntily.  They  hadn't  seen  his  car:  how  could  they  tell  he  was  from  out  of  state?  They  could  tell.  He  could  sense  it  more  and  more  as  their  eyes  didn't  leave  him.  Men  who  had  been  in  the  background  ambled  over  to  inspect  him.  A  pretty  young  woman  looked  at  him  the  way  one  looks  at  a  spectacle,  evidently  wondering  what  would  happen  next.  Even  an  old  man  who  was  read-  ing  a  newspaper  at  one  of  the  tables  let  it  drop  and  peered  at  him  over  his  glasses.  He  felt  like  a  freak.  Yet  there  was  nothing  wrong  with  him.  Oh,  his  hair  was  dishevelled  and  probably  longer  than  anyone  else's  there,  and  his  suit  was  wrinkled  from  the  long  drive,  but  he  looked  all  right  otherwise.  He  surveyed  the  room.  It  was  large  and  well  kept,  the  counter  and  stools  wooden,  solid,  substantial,  and  on  a  " b"ledge  that  spanned  the  four  walls  there  was  an  un-  usual  collection  of  majolica  jugs.  He  sat  on  one  of  the  end  stools.  The  bartender,  square-faced  and  heavy-  jawed,  was  wiping  glasses  at  the  center.  There  was  no  catching  his  eye.  Finally,  Giacomo  said,  more  loudly  than  he  had  intended,  &quot;Could  I  have  a  bourbon,  please?&quot;  There  was  no  response  -not  even  a  sidelong  glance.  What  was  this,  some  kind  of  private  club,  that  they  didn't  serve  him?  Did  it  belong  to  the  Elks,  the  Moose,  or  someone?  But  if  so,  why  didn't  they  tell  him?  He  lit  a  cigarette.  A  cigarette  would  give  them  something  more  than  his  face  to  look  at.  To  pass  un-  observed  you  had  only  to  holdor  carry  something;  then  people  looked  at  the  thing  and  not  at  you.  He  remembered  how  ages  ago  on  a  busy  street  in  Rome,  having  locked  himself  out  of  his  second-floor  apartment,  he  had  carried  a  ladder  to  the  window.  A  very  self-conscious  young  man,  he  had  won-  dered  what  people  would  think  of  him;  but  he  needn't  have  wondered-  they  looked  at  the  ladder,  not  at  him  at  all.  There  being  no  ashtray  near  him  on  the  counter,  he  dropped  the  dead  match  on  the  floor.  The  man  next  to  him  looked  down  at  the  match,  then  stepped  on  it.  This  man  was  young  and  had  a  powerful  neck,  red  and  weather-beaten;  perhaps  he  was  a  farmer.  He  looked  at  others'  necks.  Theirs,  too,  seemed  weathered,  redder  than  normal.  Rednecks,  he  thought,  and  went  through  other  descriptive  terms  of  that  kind-leathernecks,  wet-  backs,  sourdoughs,  carpetbaggers,  dudes-and  couldn't  help  smiling.  For  a  moment,  he  quite  forgot  the  locked  car  and  the  drink;  then  the  thought  of  whiskey  came  back  to  him,  and  he  wished  for  it  even  more  than  fora  coat  hanger  or  someone  to  talk  to.  Sud-  denly  some  pages  of  Faulkner's  that  he  had  translated  into  Italian  came  to  his  mind.  In  them  a  character  had  be-  trayed  himself  as  not  being  from  the  [REDACTED]  by  having  tried  to  mix  sugar  in  his  whiskey  rather  than  in  the  water  that  came  with  it,  thus  making  an  er-  ror  known  to  all  43616e616461ern  drinkers.  The  thought  gave  him  a  flicker  of  hope;  it  shone  in  his  eyes  and  he  caught  the  bartender's  attention.  &quot;Could  you  mix  me  a  bourbon  in  an  inch  of  su-  gared  water?&quot;  he  said.  The  bartender  looked  at  him  ques-  tioningly  and  turned  away.  Was  this  the  real  [REDACTED]?  What  chance  did  he  have  of  getting  a  coat  hanger  if  he  couldn't  even  get  a  drink?  &quot;A  bourbon-on-the-rocks,&quot;  someone  else  said,  and  was  immediately  served.  He  smiled  at  the  slight.  Having  spo-  ken  twice  and  his  knowledge  of  Faulk-  ner  not  having  helped  him,  not  having  made  the  least  impression,  he  had  now  certainly  revealed  himself  as  being  not  from  the  [REDACTED]  or  the  North  buta  foreigner,  though  his  accent  was  far  from  pronounced.  He  remembered  be-  ing  in  England  as  a  child  in  the  late  thirties,  soon  after  the  Abyssinian  war,  when  anti-Italian  feeling  was  running  high,  and  how  the  man  in  whose  house  he  was  staying  told  him  to  say  that  he  was  from  Malta  if  anyone  asked  him  where  he  came  from.  He  had  never  had  occasion  to  say  it,  and  wondered  if  he  would  have  said  it  if  asked.  Prob-  ably  not.  Later,  during  the  war,  back  in  England  as  a  refugee,  whenever  it  came  up  that  he  was  Italian,  people  would  just  say,  &quot;We  know  the  Italians  didn't  want  this  war,&quot;  or  something of  the  sort  to  make  him  feel  better.  &quot;Don't  they  serve  drinks?  Isn't  this  a  public  place?&quot;  he  said  to  the  young  man  next  to  him,  but  he  got  no  answer.  He  looked  behind  him.  A  thickset  man  with  a  collarless  shirt  stood  with  a  mug  in  one  hand  and  seemed  not  so  much  to  be  drinking  as  to  be  standing  in  his  way  in  case  he  wanted  to  leave.  But  he  didn't  want  to  leave.  He  wanted  a  drink  and  a  coat  hanger.  Still,  he  felt  the  presence  behind  him  as  a  weight,  felt  a  need  for  more  room,  and  was  tempted  to  nudge  him,  to  make  him  edge  back.  But  something  told  him  not  to.  A  touch,  he  felt,  was  all  the  man  was  waiting  for.  A  touch  would  summon  ashove  or  a  blow.  He  leaned  against  the  counter,  away  from  the  man  in  back  of  him,  not  really  hoping  to  draw  the  bartender's  attention  anymore  but  because  the  counter  seemed  the  safest  thing,  or  at  least  a  thing  not  in  itself  hostile.  He  looked  at  his  hands.  Could  they  save  him?  Not  likely.  Not  that  he  believed  they  really  wanted  to  kill  him,  but  he  was  getting  old,  had  very  high  blood  pressure-a  blow  or  a  kick  in  the  head,  and  who  knew  what  would  happen?  He  didn't  mind  the  idea  of  death-if  death  came,  he'd  &quot;greet  her  as  a  bride&quot;-but  death  now,  here,  seemed  like  a  marvellous  dish  served  " b"on  an  ugly  platter.  What's  more,  it  meant  to  him  not  so  much  his  own  act  of  death  as  the  world  dying  for  him,  his  being  cut  off  from  his  fam-  ily  and  all  that  he  loved,  and  he  turned  back,  annoyed,  toward  the  man.  What  would  wily  Ulysses  do  in  his  place,  he  wondered.  Not,  like  Ajax,  use  his  muscles.  No.  Ulysses  would  be  more  subtle,  would  sey  something.  &quot;You  know,&quot;  he  said,  looking  in  turn  at  the  young  man  beside  him  and  the  man  behind  him,  &quot;my  grandmother  was  from  here.&quot;  By  &quot;here&quot;  he  meant  [REDACTED]-[REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  as  a  matter  of  fact,  but  there  was  no  need  to  specify.  &quot;Lillian  Vernon,  born  1865,  daughter  of  a  minister,  and  that's  why  I  came,  all  the  way  here  from  4974616c79.  She  went  to  4974616c79  with  her  father  when  she  was  six.  He  founded  a  church  in  Rome  in  1875,  soon  after  the  Pope  lost  control  of  the  city  and  Protestant  churches  were  allowed  for  the  first  time.  The  church  is  a  movie  theatre  now.&quot;  He  laughed,  but  neither  of  the  men  laughed  with  him.  &quot;He  came  back  here.&quot;  He  wished  he  knew  the  name  of  the  town,  yet  by  saying  &quot;here&quot;  he  was  not,  strictly,  lying.  &quot;She  stayed  on  and  married,  and  I  am  her  daughter's  son.  Yes,  Lillian  Vernon.&quot;  &quot;No  one  by  that  name  I  know  of,&quot;  the  man  behind  him  said.  He  took  a  deep  breath-someone  at  last  had  spoken  to  him.  &quot;I  don't  sup-  pose  I've  any  relatives  here.  Just  came  to  see  the  place.  Came  a  long  way  just  to  see  it.&quot;  The  man  said  nothing  more.  Gia-  com's  little  speech  seemed  to  have  had  little  effect,  but  his  tongue  had  been  loosened;  he  felt  almost  giddy,  or  al-  most  drunk.  Perhaps  the  fumes  in  the  bar,  Loud  and  easy,  he  said  to  the  bartender,  &quot;Got  a  coat  hanger?  I'm  locked  out  of  my  car.&quot;  To  his  amazement,  the  words  stirred  genuine  interest.  Something  in  the  men  seemed  to  waken.  &quot;You'll  find  some  over  there  on  the  rack,&quot;  the  bartender  said.  The  man  behind  him  made  way  for  him,  and  he  rose  and  went  across  the  room,  someone  with  a  mission,  quite  unself-conscious,  and  tooka  hanger  and  went  out  to  the  car.  He  untwisted  the  hanger  into  a  rod  and  tightened  the  hook  into  a  loop,  then  tried  to  insert  it  under  the  rubber  at  the  top  of  the  window.  He  didn't  succeed.  There  seemed  to  be  no  space  at  all.  The  glass  fit  too  snugly,  or  per-  hapshe  was  just  not  very  handy.  After  a  few  minutes,  exasperated,  he  gave  up.  He  would  probably  have  to  smash  the  window.  Then  he  turned,  and  right  behind  him,  only  a  foot  away,  was  the  young  man  who  had  been  sitting  next  to  him,  looking  at  the  window  as  at  a  challenge,  Ais  challenge.  &quot;Let  me  give  it  a  try,  man  said.  He  handed  him  the  coat  hang  er.  The  young  man  worked  it  into  the  side  rather  than  into  the  top  of  the  window.  Soon  he  had  it  through  the  partition  and  was  sliding  it  up  directly  over  the  knob  of  the  push-button  lock,  but  he  couldn't  quite  get  the  loop  around  it,  though  he  reached  it  again  and  again,.  Another  young  man  came  over,  and  another.  They  began  joking.  &quot;If  Jack  can't  do  it,  nobody  can-he  spent  two  years  in  the  cooler  for  jim-  mying  car  locks.&quot;  &quot;Three,&quot;  Jack  said,  looking  back  proudly.  &quot;Three  years.&quot;  &quot;You  are  kidding!&quot;  Giacomo  said.  &quot;You  don't  believe  me?&quot;  Jack  said,  and  went  on  poking.  &quot;It's  like  fishing,&quot;  someone  said  as they  watched  the  loop  slipping  over  the  knob.  &quot;Or  lassoing.&quot;  &quot;I'll  get  my  truck  and  bash  the  trunk  open.  Then  you'll  get  inside,&quot;  a  new  arrival  said,  but  he  laughed.  &quot;Is  this  a  Chevy?&quot;  &quot;No,  a  Pontiac.&quot;  &quot;G.M.,  anyway.  Let  me  try  my  key.&quot;  But  the  key  didn't  work.  The  knob  was  short  and  stubby.  There  seemed  very  little  space  between  its  head  and  the  base.  Pessimism  came  over  Giacomo  again.  &quot;It's  impossible,&quot;  he  said.  \xc2\xab&quot;We'll  get  it  open,&quot;  Jack  said  con-  fidently.  The  loop  was  too  wide.  The  coat  hanger  was  withdrawnand  the  loop  tightened  more.  But  this  time  Jack  had  trouble  reinserting  it.  Someonecame  running  out  of  the  bar.  &quot;Here,  let  me  do  it,&quot;this  new  young  man  said.  &quot;He's  a  real  wizard.  He  got  five  years  in  the  clink!  Louigs'll  get  it  open.&quot;  Louis's  eyes  were  shining.  He  seemed  to  be  high.  The  man  with  the  truck  got  a  pitch-  fork  and,  looking  like  a  devil  in  the  " b"lamplight,  tried  to  pry  the  glass  down.  &quot;You'll  break  it.&quot;  &quot;No,  I  won't.&quot;  And  indeed  he  didn't,  With  the  help  of  the  pitchfork,  the  coat  hanger  slipped  through.  &quot;Good  thing  you  parked  under  a  light,&quot;  someone  said.  &quot;I've  got  a  flashlight  in  my  car,&quot;  said  another,  and  ran  to  get  it.  But  Louis  now  had  the  loop  around  the  knob.  &quot;He's  got  it,  he's  got  it.  No  need  of  the  flashlight!&quot;  &quot;Easy  now.  Easy  does  it.&quot;  Louis  pulled  and  the  knob  rose.  He  opened  the  door.  &quot;Marvellous.  You're  a  genius.  I  don't  believe  it!&quot;  Giacomo  said  to  Louis  and  patted  him  on  the  back  and  in  an  outburst  of  Italian  enthusiasm  would  have  hugged  him.  &quot;I  wouldn't  have  been  able  to  lift  that  if  I'd  tried  all  night  and  into  the  morning.&quot;  Louis  stood  smiling,  then  turned  as  men  turn  from  praise.  &quot;Now  let  me  buyyou  all  a  drink,&quot;  Giacomo  said.  They  trooped  back  into  the  bar.  The  atmosphere  was  quite  different  now.  &quot;I  knew  Louis  could  do  it,&quot;  the  bar-  tender  said,  and  poured  a  round  of  drinks.  &quot;You  wanted  yours  with  sugar,  didn't  you?&quot;  the  bartender  said.  &quot;Well,  here  it  is.&quot;  He  drank.  He  composed  a  toast.  &quot;I  feel  so  good,&quot;  he  said.  He  offered  another  round,  which  they  politely  declined.  There  was  something  modest  and  proud  about  them,  and  good-hu-  mored.  He  thanked  them  again,  shook  hands,  and  left.  &quot;It  was  all  worth  it,&quot;  he  said  to  himself  in  the  car,  and  thought  of  an  old  adage  he'd  heard:  that  God,  to  please  a  poor  man,  makes  him  lose  something  and  find  it  again.  Well,  no,  this  was  better  than  that-a  lot  better. "