 b"SINCE  his  death  some  two  years ago,  surprisingly  little  has  been  written  of  my  friend  Pyotr Ni-cholaevich  Derzhavin.  I  expected,  at  the  very  least,  a  full  retrospective  ex-  hibit  of  his  work,  with  one  of  those  learned  catalogues  which  put  the  artist  so  well  in  his  place.  It  has  occurred  to  me  that  I  might  not  be  the  very  worst  person  to  write  an  introduction  for  it,  sinceI  myself  am  a  painter  and  have  known  Petya,  as  we  called  him  in  the  old  days,  since  we  were  children.  In  effect,  no  one  has  suggested  such  a  prospect  to  me,  nor  have  I  encoun-  tered  among  my  artist  friends  any  ad-  vice  that  such  a  project  is  in  the  wind.  However,  there  are  few  followers  of  art  in  [REDACTED]  who  cannot  be  not  fa-  miliar  with  Derzhavin's  ceuvre,  as  he  called  it  at  school,  and  fewer  yet  who  cannot  be  incurious  about  this  rare  and  enigmatic  artist  in  his  own  private  life.  Considering  the  paucity,  indeed  al-  most  the  utter  dearth,  of  any  commu-  nication  regarding  this  precious  being,  I  am  moved  to  pen  here  some  few  of  my  own  personal  observations  of  his  life  and  his  art,  while  cognizant  that  another  might  offer  an  entirely  differ-  ent  view.  Yet  is  this  not  typical  of  the  man,  Derzhavin,  for  whom  secrecy,  strangeness-enemies  have  even  said  falsity-are  so  elemental,  both  to  the  life  and  to  the  art?  As  one  who  disclaimed  religion  in  a  personal  way,  Derzhavin  seemed  strongly  to  be  affected  by  the  ikons  of  our  native  land.  Though  these  ikons  vary  much  in  style  over  the  centuries,  they  ever  maintain  certain  elements  throughout.  Ikons,  when  they  are   good,  have  a  fixity.  They  are  intense  and  unmoving,  very  still  and  compel-  ling.  Also,  good  ikons  are  literal  and  detailed.  They  leave  little  to  the  imagi-  nation  in  a  realm  where  everything  is  imagination.  Not  to  strain  at  the  gnats,  it  does  seem  to  me  that  these  are  some  out-  standing  characteristics  of  Derzhavin's  work.  In  his  paintings,  and  even  his  youthful  watercolors,  there  is  little  sense  of  action,  one  might  almost  say  of  life.  A  still  fixity  pervades.  But  what  a  compelling  fixity  it  is!  Like  some  magic  box  set  with  cunning  mirrors,  you  peer  into  a  scene  that,  though  unmoving,  has  myriad  aspects  scintillat-  ing  and  reflecting  to  and  from  each  other.  The  atmosphere  is  dense  with  intricate  details,  details  so  small  and  sobeautifully  executed  that  it  seems  one  eye  cannever  drink  them  all  in.  Yet  despite  the  brilliant  realism  which  appears  almost  to  charm  you  into  its  very  midst,  when  one  regards  a  Derzh-  avin  masterpiece  it  is  rare  to  be  sure  just  what  one  is  seeing.  One  knows  the  beauty.  This  is  a  beautiful  object.  But  of  the  subject  one  can  say  less.  That  bird,  will  it  sing  or  has  it  sung  already?  Surely  itis  not  now  singing  in  the  paint-  ing.  It  is  a  splendid  bird  with  the  gaze  of  being  full  of  songs.  But  one  can  nev-  er  tell  if  it  will  sing  them,  nor  imagine  what  their  sound  might  be.  The  trees  of  Derzhavin  are  quite  special  trees,  full  in  plum-  age  like  the  birds.  They  are  radiative,  arborous  trees  -compelling.  Again  one  wonders  when  these  trees  had  come  into  such  rich  leafing.  Are  these  leafs  the  fresh  growth  of  late  spring?  Are  they  trees  of  midsum-  mer,  all  filled  with  buzz-  ing  insects  soaking  in  the  sun?  Or  can  they  be  the  jlightly  dusty,  starting  to  curl  leafings  of  the  sum-  mer's  age?  Derzhavin's  trees  are  silent.  HERE  is  in  Pyotr  Nicholaevich's  can-  vases  much  water-the  water  of  bodies  such  as  lakes  or  streams  or  rivers,  and  the  water  of  rain.  The  water  of  bodies  is  seen  in  the  canvases  of  the  pay-  sage,  the  landscape.  Some  might  call  these  the  rural  subjects.  I  eschew  this  word  &quot;rural&quot;  because  it  " b"seems  entirely  unfitted  to  my  friend's  master  works.  For  me,  I  find  nothing  rural  in  a  Derzhavin  countryside.  Con-  trariwise,  there  is  a  high  polish,  a  sophistication,  in  these  canvases  that  is  inhospitable  to  rustic.  The  French  painter  Watteau  had  also  this  skill  to  make  the  country  seem  like  the  decora-  tions  inside  a  palace.  But  the  Derzhavin  waters  in  these  scenes  of  paysage  are  deep:  limpid  wa-  ters  into  which  one  may  gaze  forever  without  anything  being  revealed.  A  great  amateur  of  dragonflys  (which  I  just  see  from  Lafcadio  Hearn  are  much  beloved  also  in  4a6170616e),  he  of-  ten  fixes  an  exquisite  dragonfly  just  above  the  still  surface  of  the  water.  No  painter  whom  I  know  can  capture  better  the  transparent  shimmer  in  the  dragonfly's  wing,  nor  even  as  well,  I  doubt.  In  the  town  scenes,  where  the  wa-  ter  appears  on  the  canvas  as  a  fallen  rain,  it  lends  to  even  the  most  prole-  tarian  outlook  an  aspect  of  reverie  and  reflection.  Here  too  the  fact  of  the  rain  is  an  enigma.  We  know  that  a  rain  re-  cently  has  fallen.  The  pavement  is  wet.  But  we  never  see  it  falling,  nor  can  we  tell  from  any  aspect  of  the  scene  if  the  rain  has  fallen  in  squally  gusts,  in  a  cloudburst,  in  a  long,  gloomy  down-  pour,  or  in  a  misty  dew.  'This  is  one  aspect  of  Derzhavin's  mastery.  He  makes  mysterious  these  happenings  of  the  every  day  and  leaves  the  viewer  always  in  perturbment  and  wonder.  But  as  there  is  much  water  in  these  perfected  works,  so  is  there  little  air.  In  the  landscapes  usually  itis  summer.  In  the  town  are  winter  and  summer.  There  is  sun.  Sometimes  there  is  snow.  There  are  houses  and  trees  and  parks.  But  climate  there  is  not.  One  feels  no  cold,  no  hot.  Has  any  viewer  ever  imagined  himself  pulling  tighter  his  coat  when  he  sees  a  Derzhavin  scene  of  snow?  Or  can  one  imagine  that  he  might  perspire  in  a  sun-filled  Der-  zhavin  landscape?  As  my  own  view,  I  cannot  imagine  these  happenings.  For  all  these  scenes,  as  in  the  ikons,  seem  to  transpire  in  a  climeless  time  where  light  exists  with-  out  air,  sunshine  without  warmth,  and  snow  without  cold.  Like  moonshine  which  is  not  itself  light  but  its  reflec-  tion,  Derzhavin's  scenes  stand  in  the  air  so  pure  itis  not  to  breathe  but  to  imagine.  My  own  small  powers  are  severely  taxed  in  attempting  to  convey  even  the  least  of  the  subtle  beauty  and  rare  refinement  of  my  compatriot's  ceuvre.  I  HAVE  promised  some  notes  on  the  private  side.  Like  most  artists,  Pyotr  Nicholaevich  was  unending  in  his  work.  Effort  was  no  obstacle  in  his  way.  From  early  days,  when  I  knew  him  best,  his  work  and  his  private  life  pre-  dominated.  We  saw  each  other  every  day  at  school.  And  during  each  week  smoke  alarm  again.&quot;  we  had  at  least  one  class  the  same,  sometimes  two,  which  meeting  every  day  means  we  were  in  company  five,  sometimes  ten  hours  in  the  week.  Petya  was  a  fine  student.  He  always  prepared  well  for  his  studies  or  was  absent.  He  was  a  handsome  boy  and,  despite  his  wealth,  entirely  democratic.  Once  I  invited  him  to  a  small  gather-  ing  in  celebration  of  my  birthday,  after  we  had  been  some  three  years  at  school  together,  and  he  expressed  regret  so  sincerely  that  I  knew  he  would  have  come,  even  into  my  parents'  simple  home,  had  he  not  had  an  engagement  with  his  mathematics  tutor  that  same  afternoon.  Later,  after  the  first  war,  we  were  both  at  the  University  in  Gottingen,  where  our  ways  drifted  apart,  though  I  did  sometimes  see  him  splendid  in  evening  dress,  hurrying  off  to  some  revelry,  and  when  we  did  so  meet  he  always  paused  to  utter  a  warm  and  friendly  greeting.  When,  in  the  forties,  he  came  to  [REDACTED]  where  I  had  been  living  for  some  time  with  my  family,  I  invited  him  and  his  wife,  Zenaida  Arkhadova,  to  our  rooms  by  letter.  And  I  still  treasure  the  charming  reply,  decorated  in  one  corner  by  an  incomparable  Derzhavin  dragonfly.  My  friend!  Your  memory  I  shall  cherish!  Your  artI  shall  treasure!  As  we  learned  to  say  in  school,  &quot;Ou  sont  les  neiges  d  automnes?&quot;  "