 b"MY  brother  that  drives  the  pulp  truck  goes  by  the  name  of  Arthuree.  That  is  not  the  name  we  gave  him,  but  Mama  says  let  him  go  on  through  the  world  with  it,  he  left  her  when  she  was  down  sick,  so  all  he  has  now  is  what  other  people  give  him.  I  ought  to  say  right  here  that  he  is  a  mighty  good  brother.  When  I  am  out  selling  my  vegetables,  he  waves  and  hollers  at  me,  and  if  his  brakes  will  let  him  he  stops  his  truck  to  take  what  I  can  spare  him.  The  first  thing  he  wants  to  know  is  how  is  Mama  feel-  ing.  Arthuree  married  Livia  right  after  he  ran  away.She  is  a  pretty,  yellow  lady  out  of  Vicksburg.  Has  nice  kind  ways  about  her.  She  would  be  fine  ex-  cept  she's  way  too  poorly,  just  skin  and  bones  unless  she's  about  to  find  a  baby.  She  walked  down  our  creek  road  regular  to  see  us  until  she  had  three  orfour  of  them,  and  Mama  had  to  stop  her  on  account  of  their  everlasting  head  colds.  If  they  go  to  sneezing  on  her,  Mama's  pressure  is  so  high  shehas  to  pull  the  cover  over  her  head  and  rush  them  out,  even  in  the  rain.  Couldn't  afford  a  cold.  We  kind  of  hoped  Arthuree  him-  self  would  slip  on  back  to  see  us,  but  he  never  has.  Mama  says  when  he  does  come  she  isn't  going  to  fool  around  with  a  lot  of  friendly  talk.  He  shamed  her  nearly  to  death,  never  learning  to  read  and  write  and  now  going  around  with  that  wrong  name  Arthuree.  Well,  I  guess  he  did  give  her  a  time,  but  I  believe  it's  over  with.  When  he  left  us,  he  some  way  got  a  Home-  lite  chain  saw,  and  the  bank  helped  him  to  pay  down  on  a  pulp  truck.  He  got  to  be  a  pulper,  and  it  makes  me  mighty  proud  to  see  him  driv-  ing  by,  attending  to  his  business.  After  Livia  had  to  stop  coming  to  see  Mama  andme,  we  didn't  hear  a  word  about  them.  Then  one  day  Livia  surprised  us  and  came  all  by  her-  self.  She  had  some  wonderful  news  to  tell,  she  said.  Arthuree  was  registering  in  a  school.  It  was  free,  the  adult  education,  and  theykept  it  in  a  trailer.  They  gave  out  coffee  and  doughnuts  and  held  it  in  the  nighttime.  That  was  the  best  part,  she  said,  be-  cause  he  could  work  all  day  in  the  woods  and  haul  his  sticks  to  the  mill,  then  travel  to  the  trailer  with  his  books.  He  was  going  to  find  out  everything  he  missed  when  he  wouldn't  go  to  school  back  when  Mama  had  him.  And  the  first  thing  he  wanted  to  learn  was  exactly  how  to  write.  He  didn't  like  to  make  his  &quot;X&quot;  in  front  of  all  the  people  at  the  bank-had  banking  busi-  ness  every  week  to  pay  up  on  the  pulp  truck.  He  was  doing  so  well,  Livia  said,  heput  something  extra  by  for  parts  and  better  tires.  The  biggest  trouble  with  the  edu-  cation,  Livia  said,  was  trying  to  get  to  it.  The  trailer  was  across  the  creek  in  Bogue  County,  and  his  trees  and  the  mill  he  took  them  to  continued  on  up  here  in  King.  The  line  was  sitting  right  there  in  between,  and  a  trooper  in  his  car  would  wave  you  out  of  King,  but  not  back  in  after  it  had  gotten  dark.  The  law  would  let  you  out  to  go  to  school,  or  do  anything  you  wanted,  down  in  Bogue,  but  they  didn't  want  you  back  till  time  to  work.  The  best  thing  they  could  think  to  do  was  move  down  there  to  Bogue  in  some  old  empty  house.  He  didn't  care  what  the  house  was  like,  Arthuree  had  told  her,  just  so  nobody  owned  it  and  they  didn't  have  to  trespass.  That  way  he  could  run  up  to  King  and  hit  the  woods  every  morning  in  time  to  cut  and  stack  until  he  made  a  load,  go  to  the  mill  and  throw  his  sticks  off,  cross  on  down  to  Bogue,  go  to  school,  and  then  go  to  the  house  that  they  would  have  to  find  and  pass  the  night.  After  Livia  left,  Mama  told  me  she  didn't  know  about  this  kind  of  busi-  ness.  That  pair  of  geese  had  better  re-  member  they  had  a  living  now,  regard-  less  of  the  &quot;X&quot;  mark.  John  Henry  (that  was  Arthuree)  had  gone  to  the  age  he  was  now  not  learning  how  to  write.  School  always  made  him  nerv-  ous.  How  did  he  think  he  could  work  all  day  to  keep  a  family  going,  and  run  to  school  all  night?  She  thought  I  ought  to  make  a  trip  to  King's  Town  and  talk  to  Mr.  [REDACTED]  at  the  bank.  My  un-  cle  used  to  work  for  them,  and  they  have  always  held  us  high,.  Tell  Mr.  [REDACTED],  Mama  said,  that  Arthuree  or  his  wife  (and  not  to  say  which  one)  had  started  up  a  plan,  and  tell  the  plan.  Her  pressure  was  terrible,  and  she  didn't  know  what  trouble  they'd  wind  up  with.  I  got  to  the  bank  next  morning.  Mr.  [REDACTED]  was  there,  but  he  had  telephones  and  buzzers  going,  and  a  line  of  people  waiting.  Still  and  all,  he  took  me.  He  listened  to  everything  that  Mama  had  to  say.  Then  he  told  me  that  he  would  get  a  letter  out  to  our  creek  box,  as  soon  as  he  got  the  time,  and  tell  her  what  he  thought.  He  had  already  noticed  that  John  Henry  had  fallen  a  payment  be-  hind,  and  that  was  not  like  him.  T  was  about  three  Sundays  later  that  Livia  came  to  see  us.  She  said  Arthuree  was  staying  with  the  babies.  She  looked  so  tired,  like  she  could  barely  hold  herself  up  on  her  feet,  that  Mama  told  me  to  sit  her  down,  pull  off  her  shoes,  and  run  and  get  some  Kool-Aid.  The  school  was  fine,  Livia  said,  and  yes  Ma'am,  they'd  found  a  house.  Arthuree  had  moved  them  down  there,  and  he  was  steady  studying,  even  in  the  truck,  She  was  the  one  worn  out,  she  said,  down  in  those  thick  Bogue  County  " b"woods,  from  racing  day  and  night  to  try  and  dodge  a  varmint.  Mama  doesn't  like  people  to  jump  subjects  around  like  that  when  they're  talking  to  her.  Where  was  the  house,  she  said,  what  did  it  look  like,  and  had  her  son  learned  to  write  John  Henry  Stoner?  Livia  tried  to  answer.  It  was  an  old  rotten  house,  she  said,  and  never  had  been  painted.  She  didn't  know  exact-  ly  where  it  was,  just  down  a  cut  off  61,but  close  by  the  education.  The  main  thing  wrong  was  it  didn't  have  doors  or  windows.  She  made  pallets  on  the  floor  to  rest  the  babies,  and  kept  a  fire  going  all  night  in  the  fireplace.  There  was  a  kitchen  with  an  old  iron  stove  to  cook  on,  plenty  of  persim-  mons  and  fall  plums,  and  any  night  he  tried  Arthuree  could  headlight  her  a  rabbit.  She  had  salt  and  grease  and  cornmeal-everything  she  needed.  He  brought  her  water  in  a  can  the  Piggly  lent  him.  So  far,  he  could  drive  down  the  cut  and  park  the  truck  and  then  pull  back  up  to  gravel  without  it  get-  ting  stuck.  There  was  no  trouble  about  all  these  different  things.  I  didn't  think  Mama  was  looking  at  her,  but  she  was.  She  told  her  she  was  dragging.  If  she  ever  did  gain  a  pound,  Mama  said,  she'd  be  too  poor  to  tote  it.  She  asked  her  how  her  milk  was,  at  this  rate.  Then,  before  Livia  had  a  chance  to  answer,  Mama  cut  in  the  varmint.  What  kind  of  critter  was  it,  by  the  way  that  it  was  acting?  Well,  Livia  said,  it  was  working  on  her  nerves,  because  it  hid  out  during  the  daylight  and  screamed  around  the  house  as  soon  as  night  began.  Before  dark,  she  would  get  the  babies  fed  and  then  put  them  in  the  front  room  around  the  fireplace  while  she  fixed  the  best  supper  she  could  for  Arthuree.  He  liked  stewed  rabbit  or  frog's  legs  or  quail  if  he'd  got  any.  He  didn't  get  home  till  way  late,  and  she  was  afraid  to  leave  the  babies  by  themselves  and  watch  his  plate  till  he  came  for  fear  one  of  them  would  get  burned  up  if  she  dozed  off  to  sleep.  So  she  did  the  best  she  could,  got  his  dinner  finished,  left  it  on  the  stove  that  soon  would  die,  and  went  in  with  the  babies  to  snatch  a  lit-  tle  nap  before  he  got  there.  Right  away,  then,  she  would  hear  the  var-  mint  screaming,  getting  closer  and  closer  to  the  kitchen.  And  every  single  night,  when  Arthuree  came  home  his  plate  was  clean.  Licked  clean  before  he  got  it.  There  hadn't  been  a  rattle  and  the  plate  was  never  shoved  or  dropped.  It  was  just  sitting  there,  right  where  she  had  put  it,  shiny  clean.  Ar-  thuree  would  run  out  with  his  gun  and  spend  more  of  the  night  trying  to  catch  its  eyes  with  his  headlights.  It  must  do  some  travelling  as  soon  as  it  had  its  dinner.  Mama  told  Livia  that  it  looked  to  her  like  she  had  something  serious  on  her  hands.  &quot;The  idea  of  you  down  in  those  Bogue  County  woods  with  little  bitty  children,&quot;  Mama  said.  &quot;Did  it  ever  occur  to  you  that  eater  down  there  might  want  himself  a  taste  of  some-  thing  new?&quot;  Livia  began  to  cry.  She  believes  a  lot  in  Mama.  She  could  move  Arthuree's  plate  in  with  the  babies,  she  said,  but  she  thought  the  same  as  Mama,  that  now  it  was  used  to  its  dinner-the  varmint-it  might  come  after  them.  She  was  about  at  the  end  of  her  cour-  age  and  didn't  know  what  to  do.  Mama  said  that  from  the  first  if  they  had  asked  her  she  could  have  told  them  plenty,  completely  excusing  the  var-  mint.  And  now  it  was  all  out  in  the  open,  she  said,  how  was  John  Henry  doing,  taking  all  that  risk  and  running  behind  with  his  payments?  Had  he  learned  to  write  his  name  yet?  I  wished  Mama  hadn't  asked  her  that-she  really  began  to  cry.  He  didn't  want  to  talk  against  the  school,  Livia  said,  but  Arthuree  had  gone  there  to  learn  one  thing  and  they  were  try-  ing  to  teach  him  another,  They  had  looked  him  up  on  paper  and  found  he  wasn't  the  name  he  said  he  was  or  something.  Instead  of  them  getting  straight  with  him,  he  had  to  humble  down  and  try  to  get  along  with  them.  It  was  a  school  you  never  got  finished  with.  Everything  they  taught  you  called  for  something  else.  People  were  quitting,  it  wasn't  just  Arthuree,  and  they  would  have  to  close  it  down  if  many  more  left  out.  That  wasn't  any  wonder,  Mama  said.  The  news  was  getting  around.  And  she  pulled  Mr.  [REDACTED]'s  letter  that  had  come  in  the  mail  out  from  under  her  pillow.  It  would  kill  her  eyes  to  read  it,  she  said,  but  she  would.  Dear  Lily:  The  school  you  ask  about  is  run  by  the  federal  government  and  doesn't  have  pledge  or  prayer.  I  would  not  want  my  son  in  it.  John  Henry  is  late  with  his  note  again.  Yours  in  Christ,  Randolph  C.  [REDACTED].  &quot;'There's  one  thing  sure,&quot;  Mama  told  Livia.  &quot;A  man  can't  work  all  day  and  go  to  school  against  Jesus  all  night  and  keep  from  losing  his  truck.&quot;  Livia  didn't  understand  the  part  about  Jesus,  but  she  held  herself  and  rocked  and  cried  some  more.  She  hadn't  known  any  of  this,  she  said.  Why  would  he  lose  his  log  truck?  His  payments  only  had  another  year  to  go.  &quot;Another  year  is  right,&quot;  Mama  said.  &quot;And  you  think  that  bank  is  go-  ing  to  sit  there  and  wait  for  its  money  while  your  husband  is  plowing  around  " b"Bogue  County  going  to  school,  trying  to  catch  a  wildcat-because  that's  ex-  actly  what  it  is-and  all  the  other  fool-  ishness?  They  would  grab  back  his  truck  and  then  when  he  sawed  down  a  tree  he'd  have  nothing  to  put  it  on.  Maybe  hecould  harness  up  the  wild-  cat  and  let  it  make  the  mill  run.&quot;  Like  I  was  afraid,  this  was  too  much  for  Livia,  She  quick  got  on  her  shoes  and  covered  up  her  ears  with  her  lit-  tle  bony  hands.  She  ran  out  the  door  and  across  our  front  gallery.  Mama  said  not  to  chase  after  her,  she  just  had  a  dose  of  truth  and  truth  took  its  time  to  trickle  in.  How  she  knew  it  was  a  wildcat,  Mama  said,  was  the  way  it  handled  a  plate.  Only  a  cat  could  leave  it  clean  and  never  rattle  or  shove  it.  They  would  come  to  their  senses  now,  and  move  on  back  up  home,  and  get  themselves  down  to  business.  Well,  I  couldn't  do  anything  but  pray.  God  had  already  let  it  be  the  time  of  year  people  were  buying  a  lot  of  my  things  for  the  winter,  turnips  and  spinach  and  shelled  pecans,  and  after  I  got  Mama  prettied  up  forthe  day  with  everything  she  would  need  right  there  on  a  chair  beside  her,  I  would  tie  my  different  bunches  and  start  straight  in  to  King's  Town.  I  carried  two  baskets  and  didn't  feel  the  one,  walking  along,  because  the  other  matched  it.  The  mill  road  was  a  far  piece  out  of  my  way,  but  every  day  before  I  sold  out  I  traipsed  as  fast  as  I  could  that  way  to  catch  a  sight  of  the  pulp  truck,  I  knew  his  from  all  the  others  because  his  doors  didn't  work  and  he  used  a  lot  of  rope  that  dangled  out  and  blew.  Some  of  the  other  fellows  that  know  Arthuree  would  honk  and  wave  at  me,  so  that  meant  for  certain  he  was  still  amongst  them.  It  was  getting  to  be  right  rainy,  though,  after  All  Souls  Day,and  I  was  mighty  anxious.  I  didn't  want  to  worry  Mama  more,  but  I  thought  I  better  ask  her.  What  did  it  mean,  I  asked,  that  Livia  hadn't  been  back  to  tell  us  what  they  did,  and  if  they'd  caught  the  wildcat?  She  was  so  tired  she  didn't  answer  right  away.  She  wanted  me  to  attend  to  some  work  I'd  forgotten  about  at  home.  There  was  a  spiderweb  in  one  of  our  little  windows,  right  where  the  sun  comes  in,  and  I  needed  to  brush  it  out.  Then  she  told  me  about  grown  children.  They  hardened  their  hearts,  she  said,  and  would  rather  to  prance  around  witha  varmint  than  heed  their  own  mother.  I  didn't  believe  this  was  good,  for  her  to  think  that  even.  I  told  her  I  had  prayed  so  much  I  was  about  sure  to  see  the  pulp  truck  soon  and  she  went  on  to  sleep.  BY  Christmas,  the  little  drizzles  had  turned  frosty  and  I  didn't  have  much  to  pick.  It  was  cold  too,  to  walk  up  the  old  mill  road,  I  don't  generally  think  up  a  plan  and  try  it  out  just  by  myself,  but  with  all  this  winter  coming  on  I  couldn't  be  satisfied  that  Livia  and  those  babies  were  safe  and  warm  out  in  the  world  somewhere.  I  thought  about  Mr.  [REDACTED]  at  the  bank.  He  likes  me,  buthe  doesn't  like  to  see  anybody  too  of-  ten.  I  stayed  in  a  corner  of  the  bank,  admiring  all  the  angels.  'They  had  them  strung  across  from  one  ov-  erhead  lamp  to  another.  After  I  had  been  there  a  good  while,  he  got  up  and  came  over  to  where  I  was  and  asked  me  what  I  want-  ed.  When  I  told  him,  he  said  John  Henry  was  fine,  and  the  reason  I  didn't  see  him  might  be  he'd  got  a  better  truck,  he'd  moved  his  family  back,  and  every  time  he  turned  around  now  he  came  and  asked  advice.  There  was  no  earthly  rea-  son,  Mr.  [REDACTED]  said,  for  Mama  to  worry  about  him.  And  then  he  went  to  a  big  iron  file  and  got  out  a  paper.  He  brought  it  clear  across  the  bank  just  for  me  to  see  it.  Tell  Mama,  he  said,  the  bank  had  sent  word  itself  for  him  to  come  on  home  while  the  sap  was  down.  They  had  helped  him  rent  a  house  and  loaned  him  the  money  for  the  finer  truck  to  work  with.  He  didn't  believe  he'd  ever  stray  again,  he  would  strictly  stick  to  business.  Mr.  [REDACTED]  smiled  when  he  showed  me  the  piece  of  paper.  Instead  of  the  &quot;X&quot;  on  the  bottom  line,  where  you're  supposed  to  sign,  there  was  a  nice  set  of  letters:  ARTHUREE.  "