 b"PAUL opened  the  door  of  the  brownstone,  and  Dora  asked,  &quot;How  is  she?&quot;  &quot;Stella's  fine!  Great!&quot;  Stella  called  in  a  stentorian  voice  from  the  stairs.  Actually-she  knew  it,  everyone  knew  it-she  was  dying.  The  doctors  had  said  six  months.  So  when  she  claimed  to  be  fine  and  great,  Dora,  her  niece,  looked  wry.  She  went  into  the  drawing  room,  and  in  the  few  moments  before  Stella  could  get  down  the  stairs  Paul  saidto  Dora,  &quot;She  really  has  been  all  right-not  bad  at  all.&quot;  &quot;Guess  who's  here,  upstairs,&quot;  Stella  said  to  Dora,  smiling  to  herself  with  pleasure.  Dora  couldn't  guess  who  it  was,  and  Paul  didn't  give  her  any  help.  He  was  very  busy  dusting  some  of  Stella's  treasures-her  Mogul  box,  her  Wedg-  wood  bowl-doing  it  carefully  and  with  pursed  mouth,  like  a  very  good  servant.  He  tended  to  turn  himself  into  a  servant  whenever  he  wanted  no  part  in  something,  and  no  one  could  object  to  that,  because,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  he  was  paid  for  his  services.  &quot;It's  Annette,&quot;  Stella  said  finally.  She  stretched  out  one  stout  leg  to  the  small  fire  in  the  fireplace  and  smiled  down  at  it,  still  with  that  same  mys-  terious  pleasure.  Paul  continued  dusting,  giving  no  help  to  Dora,  nor  did  he  Jook  up  when  Annette  herself  came  in?  &quot;Dora,  darling!&quot;  cried  Annette,  in  a  rather  high,  shrieky  voice.  &quot;All  grown  up!  A  real  big  grown-up  love-  ly  girl!&quot;  She  seized  both  of  Dora's  hands  and  looked  up  into  her  face  with  dancing  black  eyes.  Annette  was  small,  smart,  and  ani-  mated;  Dora  rather  stringy,  somewhat  dowdy.  When  Annette  said  that  about  her  being  a  lovely  grown-up  girl  and  looked  at  her  with  those  amused  eyes,  Dora  knew  that  what  she  was  really  thinking  was  something  quite  different.  She  disengaged  her  hands  from  An-  nette's  tiny,  plump,  warm  hands  as  soon  as  she  could.  But  Stella  was  so  obviously  pleased  at  this  meeting,  at  having  her  favorite  niece  and  her  favorite  friend  {}{not  to  mention  dear  Paul)  under  her  roof  at  the  same  time,  that  they  all  knew  they  would  have  to  make  the  bestof  it.  Annette,  in  any  case,  did  not  have  to  pretend  to  be  pleased  to  be  there;  she  really  was.  She  loved  Stella's  house.  It  was  a  heavy,  five-story  brownstone  in  Murray  Hill,  with  a  broad,  old-  fashioned  front  stoop,  and  brass  railings  that  ran  up  the  stone  bannisters.  Al-     though  in  recent  years  the  neighbor-  hood  had  grown  shabby  and  decayed,  Stella's  house  had  retained  its  well-kept  appearance.  Inside  as  well  as  outside,  it  was  as  polished,  as  prosperous,  as  com-  fortable  as  it  had  ever  been.  Stella  did  not  stint  on  her  living  arrangements,  and  Annette  knew  how  to  enjoy  them  to  the  brim.  Nor  did  Annette  hesitate  to  make  full  use  of  Paul's  services,  since  these  happened  to  be  available.  After  all,  she  might  have  argued,  that  was  what  he  was  being  paid  for-to  cook  and  clean  and  look  after  Stella  and  her  guests.  Dora  had  an  apartment  of  her  own  and  also  a  job  to  go  to,  in  the  con-  servation  department  of  a  small  mu-  seum,  but  she  came  every  day  to  see  her  aunt.  And  every  day  she  saw  that  Annette  had  dug  herself  in  a  little  deep-  er.  Paul  and  Dora  realized  that  An-  nette  had  come  to  stay  till  the  end-  till  Stella's  end.  Dora's  motherphoned  often  from  the  Vineyard,  where  she  now  lived  year  round,  to  ask  about  her  sister  Stella.  &quot;Should  I  come?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;Does  she  want  me?&quot;  &quot;Not  [REDACTED];  Dora  kept  saying.  Dora's  mother  was  much  disturbed  by  Annette's  presence  in  the  house.  It  had  been  bad  enough,  she  felt,  with  just  Paul  there,  but  now  this  other  one  as  well.  ...The  whole  family,  all  Stella's  relatives,  were  upset.  The  only  counterbalance  was  the  presence  of  Dora,  and  for  the  first  time  the  family  really  appreciated  her  and  no  longer  thought  of  her  (in  contrast  to  her  suc-  cessful,  married  cousins)  as  poor  Dora.  Apart  from  Dora,  Stella  had  never  cared  for  her  family.  She  had  always  gone  her  own  way  and  made  her  own  friends.  These  had  always  included  one  special  friend-usually  someone  like  An-  nette,  many  years  younger  than  her-  self.  Before  Annette,  there  had  been  a  German  woman  called  Lisa,  and  before  Lisa  various  other  women,  almost  all  of  them  Europeans  of  assorted  nationali-ties  (though  once  there  was  an  Indian  girl,  a  great  beauty).  But  after  An-  nette  left  her,  eight  years  ago-walked  out  on  her,  actually-Stella  did  not  make  any  more  special  friends.  Perhaps  she  felt  tooold  by  then,  or  perhaps  she  had  been  disappointed  too  many  times.  Also,  her  illness  (though  at  that  time  undiagnosed-indeed,  unsuspected)  may  have  begun  secretly  to  undermine  her.  In  those  years,  the  person  she  drew  closest  to  was  Paul,  who  had  been  a  waiter  in  an  expensive  and  fashionable  hotel  restaurant  that  she  frequented.  He  left  that  job  when  she  invited  him  to  come  and  live  with  her.  Although  he  was  quite  a  young  man-about  Dora's  age-Paul  was  extremely  re-  sponsible  and  took  good  care  of  her,  and  of  her  house  and  possessions,  which  he  loved  passionately.  Between  him  and  Dora,  she  had  had  all  the  company  she  needed  in  these  last  years,  and  she  had  seemed  more  contented  than  she  had  ever  been  before.  Nevertheless,  she  had  sent  word  for  Annette  to  come  back  again.  &quot;As  soon  as  I  got  the  letter,&quot;  Annette  told  Dora,  &quot;I  gave  up  everything  and  came  at  once.  At  once,&quot;  she  added,  satisfied  at  her  own  behavior.  She  did  not  specify  what  it  was  she  had  given  up.  She  had  been  living  in  [REDACTED],  and  she  also  didn't  specify  what  she  had  been  doing  there.  But  that  was  just  typical  of  Annette-the  details  of  her  life  were  always  left  vague,  a  subject  for  the  speculations  of  anyone  who  cared  to  speculate.  But  she  herself  was  a  very  definite  little  person.  She  told  Paul,  &quot;I  came  because  she  needed  me.&quot;  Paul  didn't  ask  why  Stella  should  have  needed  Annette,  when  he  himself  was  there.  Paul  was  a  disciplined  young  man,  and  he  did  not  allow  himself  to  ask  questions  that  people  might  not  wish  to  answer.  In-  stead,  he  tightened  his  face  and  busied  himself  with  household  tasks;  there  was  always  something  to  do  around  the  house,  and  he  did  it.  His  discipline  was  partly  that  of  a  conscientious  servant  and  partly  of  a  military  officer-not  that  he  had  been  in  the  army,  but  he  was  German,  and  it  must  havebeen  something  in  his  blood.  Though  of  humble  origin,  he  looked  like  a  Ger-  man  officer.  He  held  himself  very  erect  andhad  brushed-back  fair  hair  and  clear  eyes  and  thin  lips.  Neverwould  he  allow  any  word  of  complaint  to  escape  through  those  lips.  He  did  not  like  Annette-he  could  not  stand  her-but  since  she  was  there,  a  guest  in  the  house,  he  was  prepared  to  serve  her.  He  cooked  her  meals  and  cleared  up  after  her  and  cleanedout  " b"her  bathtub,  silently,  uncomplainingly,  and  very  thoroughly.  An-  nette  took  all  this  for  granted-or,  rather,  she  didn't  even  notice  it;  she  was  the  sort  of  person  who  ate  and  drank  and  dressed  her-  self,  and  walked  away  and  let  someone  else  clean  up  after  her.  If  there  was  no  one,  then  she  lived  in  such  dis-  order,  such  squalor,that  sooner  or  later  she  had  to  abandon  that  place  and  start  again  some-  where  else.  Dora  didn't  like  to  see  Pauldo  so  much  for  Annette.  But  when  she  told  him  this,  one  afternoon,  he  said  it  was  all  right,  he  didn't  mind  doing  his  duty.  Dora  bridled  at  that  last  word,  but  before  she  could  say  anything  more  he  said,  &quot;Sh-h-h,  she's  coming.&quot;  Al-  though  they  were  in  Paul's  own  room  at  the  topof  the  house,  where  they  might  have  thought  themselves  pri-  vate,  Annette  had  not  hesitated  to  fol-  low  them  up  there,  and  she  walked  straight  in.  She  began  at  once  to  question  them  about  Stella.  She  was  always  doing  that,  wanting  to  know  exactly  what  the  doc-  tors  had  said,  what  was  wrong  with  her,  and  was  it  really  true  that  she  had  only  a  few  months  to  live.  This  last  Annette  would  not  believe  at  all;  she  pooh-poohed  it  as  one  of  those  doctors'  things-doctors  trying  to  make  them-  selves  important  and  then  sending  in  fat  bills.  And  anyway,  she  suggested,  everything  was  changed  now  that  she  had  come.  There  wouldn't  be  any  more  nonsense-she  would  see  to  that.  And  she  looked  at  Paul  and  Dora  as  if  they  were  part  of  the  nonsense.  It  was  no  use  their  giving  her  medical  details  about  Stella;  she  wouldn't  listen  to  them.  &quot;Well,  we'll  see&quot;  was  all  she  said.  She  seemed  to  be  mentally  rolling  up  her  sleeves,  ready  to  clear  up  this  mess  that  they  had  managed  to  create  during  her  absence.  Then  she  looked  around  Paul's  room,  which  was  very  comfortable,  with  some  of  Stella's  ex-  cellent  pieces  of  furniture  in  it,  and  she  said,  &quot;So  this  is  your  room,&quot;  as  if  it  were  one  more  thing  that  might  have  to  belooked  into  and  changed.  It  was  really  true  that  with  Annette  there  Stella's  condition  seemed  to  im-  prove.  Annette  certainly  kept  her  very  cheerful,  from  early  morning  on.  In  the  few  weeks  since  she  had  arrived,  Stella  had  spent  a  large  part  of  each  day  in  bed,  and  in  the  morning  Paul  would  come  in  with  her  breakfast  tray  and  open  the  curtains  and  tidy  the  room.  Annette  was  a  late  riser  by  nature,  but  from  the  day  she  came  she  made  a  point  of  being  up  at  Stella's  breakfast  hour  and  going  down  to  her  room  and  slip-  ping  in  next  to  her  in  the  big  double  bed.  So  now  Paul  had  to  bring  in  two  breakfast  trays  every  morning,  and  while  he  worked  he  had  to  hear  the  cheering  chatter  that  Annette  made  to  amuse  her  sick  friend.  And  there  wasno  doubt  about  it,  Stella  wes  amused.  She  just  loved  every  moment  of  it,  having  Annette  next  to  her,  being  so  wonderfully  loving  and  entertaining.  Most  of  Annette's  chatter  pertained  to  their  past  together-''Yes,  and  what  about  Saratoga?&quot;  .  ..  &quot;Annette!  No,  please!&quot;-and  the  fun  they  had  had  together;  and  Stella  bloomed  and  thrived  in  living  it  over  again.  Paul  listened,  too,  grimly  dusting,  except  when  Annette  said,  &quot;Darling  Paul,  I  think  we  need  some  more  toast,  thank  you,  darling&quot;-holding  out  the  empty  toast  rack  to  him  by  dangling  it  from  her  finger  like  bait.  He  would  take  it  from  her  without  a  word  and  go  down  to  the  kitchen,  his  special  domain,  and  make  the  toast,  and  more  coffee,  too,  and  when  he  came  back  Stella  would  often  be  blushing  and  smiling  like  some  big,  heavy  girl,  and  she  would  say,  &quot;Annette,  Annette&quot;-half  reproving,  half  approving-and  Annette  would  toss  her  head,  bold  and  unrepentant,  and  say,  &quot;That's  the  way  it  was,  and  I'd  do  the  same  tomorrow.&quot;  DORA\xe2\x80\x99S  mother  telephoned.  &quot;Is  she  still  there?&quot;  she  said  to  Dora.  &quot;Of  course  she  is,&quot;  Dora  said,  chal-  lenging  the  distressed  silence  at  the  other  end.  &quot;You  don't  think  she'd  come  all  this  way  and  then  go  off  again  tomorrow?  She's  here  to  stay.  Any-  way,  what's  wrong  with  her?&quot;  &quot;What's  wrong  with  her!&quot;  Dora's  mother  repeated  incredulously.  So  then  Dora  had  nothing  to  say,  until  her  mother  went  on,  &quot;And  he?  I  suppose  Ae's  still  there?&quot;  &quot;Paul?  Things  would  be  in  a  fine  " b"mess  if  he  wasn't.&quot;  Dora  hung  up  in-  dignantly.  Annette  had  the  idea,  which  she  shared  with  Stella,  that  Dora  was  in  love  with  Paul.  Stella  liked  this  idea  and  made  Annette  give  her  more  de-  tails.  And  then  Stella  asked,  &quot;And  he?&quot;  Annette  gave  a  little  laugh  at  that.  &quot;Naturally,  he's  pleased.  He  likes  it.&quot;  &quot;'Yes,  but  does  he  feel  the  same  way?&quot;  Stella  asked.  &quot;Goodness,  Stella,  if  you're  in  Paul's  position,  you  don't  ask  yourself  such  questions.  You  take  what  falls  down  from  Heaven  and  keep  quiet.  Thank  you,  darling.  Just  what  we  needed,&quot;  she  said  as  Paul  returned  with  more  toast,  and  she  began  to  butter  it  at  once.  Stella  watched  Paul  and  Dora  to-  gether,  but  it  was  difficult  for  her  to  see  what  Annette  saw.  Paul  was  always  reserved,  and,  as  for  Dora-Stella  knew  that  she  was,  like  herself,  a  person  of  deep,  deep  feeling,  but  everything  in  Dora's  training,  her  nature,  even  in  her  physical  presence,  was  calculated  to  hide  this.  &quot;Poor  thing,  what  do  you  expect,  she's  so  dreadfully  repressed,&quot;  Annette  said  when  Stella  complained  she  couldn't  see  anything  of  what  An-  nette  had  described.  &quot;Probably  she  doesn't  even  know  it  herself.  W  hat  she  needs  is  opening  up-the  way  I  opened  you  up?&quot;  she  said  to  Stella,  who  then  blushed  and  smiled  again  in  that  big-  schoolgirl  way.  WHATEVER  their  feelings  for  each  other  were,  Paul  and  Dora  certainly  spent  a  lot  of  time  together  in  the  house.  That  may  have  been  part-  ly  because  Annette  now  monopolized  Stella.  She  had  taken  Stella's  regime  in  hand,  and  it  was  she  who  decided  that  now  it  was  time  for  Stella  to  have  her  nap,  and  now  it  was  time  to  play  chess  with  Annette,  and  now,  perhaps  (all  bundled  up  in  furs  and  boots),  what  about  a  drive  with  Annette  through  Central  Park?  So  it  didn't  matter  whether  Paul  and  Dora  liked  being  to-  gether-they  had  no  alternative.  They  always  had  plenty  to  talk  about-mostly  about  Annette,  or  Stella  and  Annette.  It  wasn't  long,  then,  before  Paul  told  Dora  about  the  big  scene  that  had  taken  place  between  Stella  and  Annette  eight  years  earlier.  He  had  never  talked  about  this  to  anyone,  even  though  it  was  by  no  means  a  secret,  for  it  had  been  enacted  in  front  of  the  whole  tea-  time  crowd  assembled  in  the  hotel  res-  taurant  where  Paul  had  at  that  time  been  a  waiter.  He  knew  Stella  well;  she  was  a  regular  patron.  She  was  very  generous  with  her  tips  and  always  had  a  friend-ly  word  for  the  staff.  She  had  quite  a  large  circle  of  friends-most  of  them  rich,  clever  middle-aged  women  like  herself-but  after  Annette  appeared  this  circle  gradually  shrank,  and  after  a  while  she  came  only  with  Annette.  Stella  didn't  seem  to  mind  the  loss  of  her  other  friends.  She  appeared  to  be  very  happy,  feasting  herself  on  the  presence  of  Annette  and  basking  in  her  high  spirits.  But  on  the  day  of  the  big  scene  Annette  had  not  been  in  high  spirits.  She  was  an  avid  consumer  of  teatime  pastries,  but  on  this  afternoon  she  was  eating  compulsively,  angrily.  She  was  " b"still  licking  up  the  remains  of  one  rich,  squashy  cake  when  she  imperiously  waved  her  hand  for  the  trolley  to  be  wheeled  over  to  her  again.  Stella  also  had  a  fondness  for  these  pastries,  but  she  had  to  be  careful  of  her  weight.  When  the  trolley  was  summoned  for  the  third  time,  Stella  made  a  selection  of  her  own,  but  Annette  (her  mouth  sticky  with  whipped  cream  and  choco-  late  flakes)  turned  on  her.  &quot;Are  you  completely  out  of  your  mind!&quot;  she  cried.  &quot;Stuffing  yourself  when-look  at  you-you're  already  the  size  of  a  buffalo!  It's  disgusting.&quot;  All  this  was  said  in  front  of  Paul,  who  was  refilling  their  cups  with  tea,  and  the  trolley  waiter,  who  stood  there  gaping.  Paul  took  charge  then,  waving  his  colleague  away  and  also  removing  himself  and  his  teapot  discreetly  to  oth-  er  tables.  But  he  kept  an  eye  on  Stella.  He  had  always  liked  her,  and  he  felt  protective  about  her.  He  thought  of  her  as  a  wonderful  American  lady,  and  admired  the  expensive  suits  and  shoes  she  wore,  from  the  best  shops.  He  also  watched  Annette;  he  knew  her  type  only  too  well,  unfortunately.  After  those  first  words,  he  kept  his  eye  on  the  two  of  them  asbest  he  could,  although  it  was  a  very  busy  time  and  the  place  was  packed.  Every  time  he  looked  again,  he  saw  that  the  scene  between  them  had  advanced  a  stage  further,  and  he  was  appalled.  Annette  appeared  almost  to  have  lost  control  of  herself.  But  Paul  knew  that  she  hadn't,  really;  she  couldn't  afford  to.  A  person  like  her  had  always  to  be  in  control  of  herself,  and  of  others,  and  of  situations.  She  could  only  survive  by  manipulation.  So  she  must  have  deliberately  let  herself  fly  into  a  terrible  rage,  and  although  Paul  couldn't  hear  what  she  was  saying  (she  was  almost  shouting,  but  luckily  much  of  what  she  was  saying  was  drowned  out  in  the  teatime  roar),  he  knew  it  was  mercilessly  cruel.  He  could  tell  this  from  the  expression  on  Annette's  face,  which  was  frightening.  Even  as  she  was  shouting  at  Stella,  she  continued  to  attack  the  huge  piece  of  Black  Forest  cake  she  had  selected  from  the  trolley;  her  mouth  dripped  with  it,  so  that  she  looked  like  a  beast  of  prey-cruel  and  greedy.  When  Paul  looked  next,  Annette  had  gone,  and  Stella  sat  alone.  And  now  he  didn't  care  how  many  tables  were  clamoring  for  him;  he  went  straight  over  to  her  and  stood  between  her  and  the  rest  of  the  restaurant,  shielding  her  with  his  back  while  pre-  tending  to  pour  tea  for  her.  &quot;Now,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;now,  now.&quot;  She  had  com-  pletely  disintegrated.  Her  shoulders  were  hunched  within  her  tailored  suit,  her  face  was  ugly  and  red,  and  huge  tears  rolled  down  it.  &quot;Now,  now,&quot;  he  said  over  and  over,  not  so  much  to  say  something  as  to  prevent  the  sounds  that  came  from  her,  the  helpless  sobs,  from  being  heard  at  adjoining  tables.  &quot;I  guess  I  know  when  that  [REDACTED];  Dora  said  when  Paul  had  told  her  this  story.  And  Paul  confirmed  that  it  was  eight  years  ago  when  Annette  had  walked  out  on  Stella  and  gone  off  to  [REDACTED]  with  one  of  her  businessman  friends.  Paul  guessed  that  she  had  staged  the  scene  in  order  to  rid  her-  self  of  Stella.  In  any  case,  within  a  day  or  two  she  had  packed  her  bags  and  moved  out  and  flown  to  Lon-  don.  It  was  then  that  Paul  began  to  be  really  close  to  Stella,  and  gradually  it  " b"had  become  his  life's  task  to  take  care  of  her.  Annette  said  it  was  a  wonderful  arrangement.  She  said  this  often-to  Stella  when  they  were  in  bed  together  and  Paul  was  serving  their  breakfast,  and  to  Dora,  too,  looking  at  her  out  of  the  corners  of  her  merry  black  eyes.  &quot;Such  a  nice  person,&quot;  she  said  about  Paul.  &quot;So  helpful  and  good.&quot;  And  once  she  added,  &quot;Of  course,  he's  very  lucky,  too.  He's  fallen  on  his  feet  here.  What  a  chance  for  him-a  person  from  his  class.&quot;  She  turned  her  mouth  down  in  utter  contempt.  &quot;What  class  is  that?&quot;  coldly.  &quot;Oh,  darling,&quot;  said  Annette.  Again  she  looked  at  Dora  with  dancing,  teas-  ing  eyes.  &quot;I  wonder  what  your  family  thinks  of  him,&quot;  she  went  on.  &quot;Not  quite  what  they're  used  to,  is  it?  A  waiter.&quot;  Again  she  pulled  her  mouth  down.  &quot;A  proletarian.&quot;  &quot;A  what?&quot;  said  Dora.  Annette  repeated  the  word  for  her,  relishing  her  own  contempt.  Dora,  of  course,  did  not  report  this  conversation  to  Paul,  but  shedid  ask  him  what  he  thought  An-  nette's  own  back-  ground  had  been.  Now  it  was  Paul's  turn  to  pull  his  mouth  down,  and  he  did  it  in  exact-  ly  the  same  way  as  she  had  done  about  him.  &quot;'Yes,  yes,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;we  all  know  what  she  is,  where  she  comes  from.&quot;  &quot;She  says  she's  Rus-  sian,&quot;  Dora  said.  Actually,  Annette  was  vague  about  her  lineage.  Sometimes  her  parents  were  White  Russians  who  had  fled  their  homeland  and  settled  in  [REDACTED],  leaving  vast  estates  behind;  sometimes  onlyher  fa-  ther  was  of  Russian  no-  bility,  and  her  moth-  er  was  a  French  ballet  dancer.  'Yes,  yes,&quot;  Paul  said  again.  He  added,  &quot;And  about  her  age.&quot;  &quot;She  says  she's  thir-  ty-five.&quot;  &quot;All  right,&quot;  Paul  said.  &quot;Sometimes  a  la-  dy  likes  to  take  off  a  year  here  and  there.  That  is  quite  natural;  Dora  said  we  all  understand  it,  But  to  take  off  fifteen  years!&quot;  &quot;Fifteen  years!&quot;  &quot;That's  really  shameless,&quot;  Paul  said.  &quot;She  is  quite  shameless.&quot;  After  that,  Dora  looked  more  closely  at  Annette.  She  could  not  believe  she  was  fifty.  Of  course,  Annette  used  a  lot  of  makeup,  and  her  hair  was  not  its  own  color,  but  all  the  same  there  was  a  youthful  vitality  in  her  face  and  in  her  plump,  active  little  body.  Dora  herself,  who  was  not  quite  thirty,  felt  almost  middle-aged  beside  her,  and  of  course  dowdy.  Annette  often  commented  on  Dora's  appearance,  usually  in  front  of  Stella.  She  would  study  her,  with  her  head  to  one  side  and  the  tip  of  her  rosy  tongue  thoughtfully  protruding.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  she  said  once,  speaking  about  one  of  Dora's  discreet  dresses,  &quot;it's  nice,  smart-but  wait!&quot;  She  jumped  up  and  dashed  away,  to  return  with  one  of  her  own  bird-of-paradise  scarves,  which  she  quickly  wound  around  Dora's  neck.  &quot;There!&quot;  she  cried  in  triumph.  Stella  nodded  and  smiled,  and  Annette  said,  &quot;Paul  likes  it,  too,  don't  you,  Paul?&quot; And  when  Dora  pulled  the  scarf  off,  Annette  cried,  &quot;Oh,  why?  It  looks  so  chic!,&quot;  and  Stella  echoed  her.  Stella  and  Dora,  as  aunt  and  favorite  niece,  had  always  had  a  lot  in  common.  They  liked  the  same  books,  and  in  the  past  they  had  often  gone  to  concerts  and  exhibitions  together,  andhad  usu-  ally  come  away  with  the  same  reactions.  Stella  had  appreciated  the  girl's  mind,  her  good  taste,  and  her  quiet,  with-  drawn,  modest  behavior.  But  now  she  no  longer  seemed  to  value  these  quali-  ties,  and,  just  as  Annette  with  the  bright  scarf,  Stella  began  to  suggest  changes.  She  wanted  Dora  to  go  out  and  enjoy  herself.  She  suggested  treats:  &quot;Why  don't  you  go  to  aplay  tonight-  Off  [REDACTED]?  And  supper  after-  ward?&quot;  Or,  &quot;The  stores  are  open  late  tomorrow.  Why  don't  you  let  Annette  take  you  shopping?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  yes,  yes!&quot;  cried  Annette.  &quot;I  don't  need  anything,&quot;  Dora  said.  Another  time,  it  might  be  Annette  who  suggested  an  outing-to  a  film  festival,  to  a  musical,  to  a  newly  opened  restaurant.  When  Dora  refused,  An-  nette  would  say,  &quot;Paul  can  take  you,  if  you  like.  He  can  have  the  evening  off,  can't  he,  Stella?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  my  dear,&quot;  said  Stella,  in  horror  at  the  idea  that  Paul  should  have  to  ask  for  such  a  thing.  But  neither  Paul  nor  Dora  had  any  in-  clination  to  go.  They  preferred  to  stay  with  Stella.  Dora's  mother  tele-  phoned  more  frequent-  ly  from  the  Vineyard.  &quot;How  is  she?  Is  she  still  there?  Should  I  come?&quot;  Dora  always  told  her  not  to.  She  said  it  was  all  right-Stella  was  the  same,  no  change.  But  in  fact  there  was  a  change;  Stella  was  not  the  same.  She  had  kept  active  as  long  as  she  could,  and  got  dressed  at  least  once  a  day  in  her  skirt  and  cardigan,  and  came  downstairs  to  sit  by  the  cozy  log  fire  Paul  had  lit.  But  now  as  her  illness  progressed  she  was  forced  to  stay  more  " b"and  m  ore  in  her  bedroom,  and  Paul  lit  a  fire  in  there.  In  the  evenings,  when  Dor  a  came  home  from  her  job  in  the  museum,  it  was  the  place  where  they  all  congregated,  with  Stella  in  bed  as  their  center  piece.  Annette  spent  most  of  her  days  in  there.  She  had  an  armchair  and  little  table  right  by  the  fire,  and  there  she  sat,  playing  soli-  taire  while  Stella  dozed.  Excellent  me  als  were  brought  i  n  on  trays  by  Paul,  an  d  snacks  in  bet  ween  ,  and  Annette  se  emed  to  be  perfec  tly  content  to  sit  there  and  sit  there  and  let  Stella  watch  her,  when  she  was  awake.  It  was  mid-  winter;  the  snow  fell  outside,  and  the  one  tree  visible  from  the  win  dow  was  stripped  and  dead,  so  it  seemed  nice  to  be  sitting  inside  ,  even  in  a  sick-  room.  So  met  im  es,  when  Stella  was  asleep  ,  Paul  and  Dora  became  restless.  They  had  a  l  ot  of  things  on  their  minds  and  no  one  else  to  sha  re  them  wit  h,  so  they  tended  to  sneak  away  together,  usually  up  to  Pa  ul's  room.  Sometimes  when  Stella  woke  up,  she  asked,  &quot;H  as  Dora  gone  home?&quot;  An  d  Anne  tte  would  kick  a  lo  g  into  the  fi  re  and  say,  &quot;No,  she  is  with  Paul,  upstairs.&quot;  Stella  saw  An-  nette's  face  lit  by  flickering  flames,  and  a  smile  flick  eri  ng  the  re  as  well.  Stella,  too,  was  pleased  to  think  of  Paul  and  Dora  t  ogether;  it  gave  her  satisfaction  to  imagine  what  happiness  might  be  going  on  be  tween  them  in  her  house.  There  was  no  fire  in  Paul's  room.  There  was  a  little  fireplace,  but  he  liked  t  o  keep  the  room  cool,  with  the  radiators  turned  off  and,  whenever  poss  ible,  the  window  left  open.  And  though  Dora  usually  felt  the  cold  very  much,  she  was  glad  of  this  outer  cool-  ness,  because  she  felt  there  were  fires  w  ithin  her.  The  moment  they  were  alon  e  together,  they  began  to  speak  of  Annette.  Do  ra  did  her  very  best  to  be  fair  an  d  to  ass  ume  tha  t  Annette  was  living  in  the  house  and  keeping  vigil  in  the  sickroom  for  love  of  Stella,  for  noble  motives.  But  whenever  she  said  that,  Paul  took  on  the  knowing  sneer  he  alway  s  had  for  Annette.  &quot;Listen,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;Dora'&quot;-there  was  always  the  sligh  t  est  hesitation  when  he  said  her  name,  for  she  had  only  recently  managed  to  persuade  him  not  to  call  her  Miss  Dora-'&quot;listen,  she  is  n  ot  the  type  to  do  anything  for  love,  that  I  can  tell  you.  She  can't  afford  to.&quot;  His  thin  lips  went  thinner,  and  his  cold,  pale  eyes  looked  at  Dora  now  with  dis-  like.  &quot;I'm  afraid  you  wouldn't  know  about  that...  Dora.  About  a  person  like  her,  the  way  she  has  to  live  all  her  life.&quot; &quot;How?&quot;  asked  Dora,  curiously  ex-  cited.  &quot;On  her  wits,  on  what  she  has  up  here,&quot;  he  said,  slapping  his  forehead.  &quot;Yes,  and  of  course  what  she  has  down  there,  too,&quot;  he  said,  pointing  downward  with  a  coarseness  very  unusual  for  him.  &quot;Excuse  me,&quot;  he  said  immediately  but  in  an  unrepentant  tone.  &quot;'That's  the  way  it  is.  If  you  don't  have&quot;-and  he  rubbed  two  fingers  together  in  a  mon-  eylender's  gesture-&quot;then  that's  the  way  you  have  to  make  do.  I've  seen  hundreds  like  her-thousands-all  over  the  world.  They  used  to  sit  around  in  the  restaurants  I  worked  in.  They  were  the  first  to  come  and  the  last  to  leave.  They  could  never  go  home,  because  there  was  the  landlord  downstairs  wait-  ing  to  be  paid,  or  maybe  the  people  they  were  living  with  had  told  them  to  leave.  You  don't  know  what  that's  like,  Dora-when  you're  asked  to  leave  by  your  host.  When  they  want  to  be  polite  to  you,  they  say  they've  got  other  guests  coming.  But  they  don't  always  want  to  be  polite;  they  don't  need  to  be,  do  they?  For  instance,  now,  if  this  house  were  yours  and  you  want-  ed  someone  to  leave,  you  wouldn't  have  to  pretend  anything.  You  could  just  say  'Go.&quot;  You  could  say  it  to  An-  nette,  you  could  say  it  to  me.  'Go'-  just  like  that.&quot;  He  had  grown  very  pale,  and  Dora,  too,  grew  pale.  Stella's  doctor  paid  regular  visits,  and  he  talked  gravely  to  Dora  afterward  in  the  drawing  room.  Annette  was  always  there,  and  her  right  to  be  there  was  by  now  indisputable.  Each  time,  Dora  had  to  recover  from  what  the  doctor  had  told  her,  waiting  downstairs  to  collect  herself  before  going  back  to  Stella.  An-  nette  waited  with  her,  to  comfort  and  strengthen  her,  but  if  Dora  stayed  too  long,  sitting  there  in  silence,  with  her  head  bowed,  Annette  got  restless  and  began  to  pace  the  room.  There  was  a  cashmere  shawl  thrown  over  a  grand  piano  in  one  corner,  and  sometimes  Annette  took  it  off  and  wrapped  it  around  herself  and  modelled  it  before  the  pier  glass.  Once,  she  sighed  and  said,  &quot;How  beautiful,&quot;  and,  picking  up  a  silver  box,  she  sighed  again  and  opened  it  and  shut  it,  looking  at  her  reflection  there,  too,  for  Paul  had  pol-  ished  the  box  to  perfection.  &quot;He  keeps  things  well,&quot;  she  murmured  to  Dora.  &quot;Quite  the  little  housekeeper,  He's  go-  ing  to  miss  all  this,  you  know.  When  it's  no  longer  here.&quot;  She  gave  a  third  deep  sigh,  and,  unwinding  herself  from  the  shawl,  replaced  it  on  the  piano-  though  very  slowly,  letting  her  hand  linger  over  the  soft  wool,  as  if  reluctant  to  let  go.  &quot;What  are  you  going  to  do  with  all  of  it?&quot;  she  asked,  indicating  the  draw-  ing  room  and  all  its  contents-all  Stella's  beloved  screens,  fans,  clocks,  and  mirrors.  &quot;Sell  it,  I  suppose,&quot;  she  " b"went  on,  now  almost  talking  to  herself.  &quot;No  use  keeping  it,  and,  my  goodness,  it  should  all  fetch  a  pretty  penny.  A  pretty  penny,&quot;  she  repeated  wistfully.  Dora  still  hadn't  spoken,  sunk  in  thoughts  of  Stella  and  the  doctor's  prognostication.  &quot;And  what  about  us?&quot;  Annette  asked.  &quot;What  are  you  going  to  do  about  us,  Paul  and  me?  We  won't  fetch  much,  I'm  afraid.&quot;  She  laughed  at  that-a  deep,  cynical,  unfeminine  laugh-and,  looking  at  her,  Dora  be-  lieved  for  the  first  time  that  Annette  was  fifty,  for  this  laugh  seemed  to  come  out  of  years  of  disappointments.  Annette  caught  Dora's  look  of  sur-  prise,  and  she  went  on,  &quot;She's  not  go-  ing  to  leave  much  to  us,  you  know  that-to  Paul  and  me.  It's  all  going  to  you,  naturally.  Naturally,&quot;  she  repeat-  ed.  &quot;Money  like  that  doesn't  go  out  of  the  family.  It  never  does.&quot;  And  again  she  seemed  to  speak  out  of  long,  long  experience.  DORA\xe2\x80\x99S  mother  said,  &quot;How  is  she?  I  could  come  over  for  the  week-  end.&quot;  &quot;Mother,  it's  all  right,&quot;  Dora  said  into  the  telephone.  &quot;Dora,  are  you  telling  me  every-  thing  I  ought  to  know?  My  own  sister,  after  all.&quot;  &quot;It's  all  right,&quot;  Dora  repeated.  Dora  had  always  had  a  room  kept  ready  for  her  in  Stella's  house,  and  now  she  moved  into  it,  locking  up  her  own  apartment.  She  wanted  to  be  there  with  Stella  all  the  time.  Stella  had  shrunk  so  much  that  her  own  bed  seemed  to  overwhelm  her.  Her  boom-  ing  voice,  too,  was  down  to  its  own  echo.  One  day,  Annette  fell  asleep  by  the  fireside,  and  Dora  sat  by  Stella's  bed,  holding  her  hand.  For  the  first  tme  in  a  long  while,  aunt  and  niece  had  the  opportunity  to  talk  privately  together.  Stella  talked  about  Annette;  she  kept  looking  at  her  fondly  as  she  slept.  It  was  the  afternoon  of  a  winter  day  and  the  light  was  failing,  so  that  Annette  was  mostly  in  shadow.  Her  head  was  supported  on  her  hand,  her  face  was  flushed  by  the  fire,  and  she  breathed  peacefully.  She's  so  kind  to  me-you  have  no  idea,&quot;  Stella  said.  &quot;But  that's  nothing  new.  She's  always  been  like  that,  all  goodness  and  kindness.&quot;  She  smiled  at  her  memories.  &quot;Of  course,  we  had  our  little  difficulties  sometimes,  but  every-  one  has  those,  don't  they?  If  they're  really  close  to  each  other.  That's  part  of  it-hurting  each  other  because  you  love  each  other  so  much.  It's  different  when  people  don't  care  for  you,  or  only  pretend  to.&quot;  &quot;Mother  calls  every  day  to  ask  after  you,&quot;  Dora  said.  Stella  nodded,  as  if  she  knew  that  and  also  knew  what  it  was  worth.  &quot;I  wish-I  wish-I  wish-&quot;  said  Stella,  after  a  long  silence,  swinging  Dora's  hand  about.  This  byplay  was  one  of  the  things  they  had  between  them,  as  if  they  had  spent  their  child-  hood  together.  &quot;What?&quot;  said  Dora,  smiling.  &quot;I  wish  that  you  had  someone  you  cared  for  more  than  anyone  else  in  the  world,&quot;  said  Stella.  &quot;I  wasn't  ever  really  happy  till  I  had  someone  like  that-a  very  special  person  of  my  own.&quot;  Again  theyboth  looked  at  Annette,  cozily  asleep.  &quot;I'd  like  you  to  have  sucha  person,&quot;  Stella  said  to  Dora  in  her  weakened  whisper,  which  made  everything  she  said  into  a  signif-  icant  message.  Paul  came  in  with  Stella's  supper  tray.  He  wanted  to  turn  on  the  light,  but  Stella  said  it  would  disturb  Annette.  Now  it  was  almost  dark  in  the  room,  except  for  the  warm  and  glowing  space  where  Annette  sat  by  the  fire.  The  window  framed  the  last  gleam  of  winter  daylight,  through  which  snowflakes  could  be  seen  falling.  &quot;We  were  just  talking  about  you,  Paul,&quot;  said  Stella.  &quot;Nothing  but  good,  I  hope,&quot;  said  Paul  with  his  stiff  humor.  \xc2\xab'Tell  him,  Dora,&quot;  said  Stella.  &quot;Tell  him  what  I  wish  for  more  than  any-  thing  in  the  world.&quot;  She  squeezed  Dora's  hand.  &quot;Isn't  it  lovely  to  be  here  all  together?  Isn't  it  the  coziest  " b"thing?  God  bless  this  house,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;and  all  of  you  in  it.&quot;  Annette  stirred  in  her  corner,  and  Paul  and  Dora  re-  mained  quite  still  in  the  still  room,  with  only  their  thoughts  rustling  inside  their  heads.  At  night,  in  his  bed,  Paul  slept  like  a  lead  soldier  laid  to  rest  in  his  box.  He  slept  very  soundly,  so  that  Annette  had  to  call  him  several  times  that  night  be-  fore  he  woke  up.  Then  he  sat  bolt  up-  right  and  called  out  like  a  sentry.  &quot;Sh-h-h,&quot;  said  Annette.&quot;Sh-h-h,  sh-h-h.  Don't  be  a  fool.&quot;  &quot;Something's  happened  to  her,&quot;  said  Paul,  and  jumped  out  of  bed  in  a  great  fright.  &quot;Nothing's  happened,&quot;  said  Annette.  &quot;Not  yet.&quot;  Paul  realized  that  Annette  had  come  to  him  on  a  personal  visit,  which  might  be  of  some  duration.  He  put  on  his  dressing  gown  and  sat  down  on  a  chair,  facing  her.  &quot;And  when  it  does  happen?&quot;  she  asked  him.  &quot;What  will  you  do?  You'll  have  to  do  something.&quot;  When  he  shrugged,  she  said,  &quot;Oh,  I  see,  You'll  get  another  job  in  a  restaurant  and  share  an  apartment  with  one  of  the  other  waiters.  Off  Amsterdam  Ave-  nue?  Or  downtown?  One  of  those  houses  cut  up  into  rooms,  with  very  dark  stairs  and  a  lot  of  security  locks?   Charming.  After  this.&quot;  She  indicated  his  room,  which  had  two  armchairs,  three  Oriental  rugs,  a  Persian  wall  hanging,  and  a  walnut  desk  with  an  enamel  inkstand  on  it.  She  leaned  toward  him  and  looked  into  his  face.  &quot;The  girl's  not  bad,&quot;  she  said,  with  a  shrug.  &quot;Some  would  say  you  were  very  lucky.  I  think  you  are.,  My  goodness,  yes.&quot;  She  gave  her  harsh  laugh.  Paul  cleared  his  throat.  &quot;It's  a  very  difficult  position  for  me,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  would  like  to  be  in  such  a  dif-  ficult  position,&quot;  Annette  went  on.  &quot;What's  the  matter  with  you?  Don't  you  like  girls?  I've  wondered  some-  times,&quot;  She  continued  to  look  into  his  pale,  stubborn,  handsome  face.  &quot;''That's  nothing,&quot;  she  assured  him.  &quot;It  doesn't  matter  a  damn.&quot;  He  stared  ahead  of  him.  His  Adam's  apple  worked  up  and  down  very  slight-  ly;  otherwise  he  was  motionless.  She  said,  &quot;You  learn  to  ignore  little  things  like  your  own  personal  tastes  when  you  get  to  my  age.  Which  is  thirty-five,&quot;  she  added  in  parenthesis,  smiling  at  him  broadly  and  tapping  her  foot.  &quot;When  you  get  to  that,  you  don't  care  the  teeniest  little  bit,  Remember  when  I  went  off  to  [REDACTED]?  I  learned  my  lesson  there,  all  right.&quot;  &quot;I've  got  nothing  to  learn,&quot;  Paul  said,  still  staring  over  her  head.   &quot;You  soon  will  have.  You  heard  what  the  doctor  said.&quot;  &quot;I  thought  you  said  that  was  all  nonsense.&quot;  &quot;We  have  to  be  ready  for  all  weathers-that's  another  thing  we  learn.&quot;  She  tapped  his  knee  and  leaned  even  closer.  &quot;I'm  on  your  side,  don't  you  know  that?  I'm  with  you.  I  want  to  see  you  stay  here,  where  you  like  it  so  much.  Just  look  at  you,&quot;  she  said,  amused,  watching  his  knee  twitching  where  she  had  kept  her  hand  on  it.  &quot;What  are  you  afraid  of?  It  doesn't  hurt  with  a  woman-here,  I'll  show  you.&quot;  Dexterously,  she  slipped  from  her  chair  onto  his  lap,  and,  taking  his  face  between  her  hands,  she  pressed  her  mouth  against  his.  She  kept  it  therea  long  while  and  did  all  sorts  of  expert  things,  and  when  she  had  finished  she  laughed  and  gave  his  cheek  a  little  slap  and  said,  &quot;''There.  You  see,  you've  got  nothing  at  all  to  worry  about.  You're  doing  it  very  well.  Absolutely  right,&quot;  she  assured  him.  Annette's  visits  to  Paul  were  re-  peated  several  times,  and  then  one  night  she  was  pleased  to  find  his  room  empty.  She  put  her  ear  to  the  door  of  Dora's  room  and  heard  Dora  talking.  Annette  rolled  her  eyes  in  amusement.  Dora  was  just  the  sort  of  girl  to  lead  a  discus-  sion  group  in  the  midst  of  life's  busi-  " b"ness.  Stella  hadhad  the  same  tendency,  before  Annette  had  taught  her  better.  If  Annette  had  bothered  to  look  through  the  keyhole,  she  would  have  been  even  more  amused  to  see  the  two  of  them-Paul  on  a  Victorian  love  seat  and  Dora  on  the  carpet,  with  her  arms  clasped  around  her  knees.  Dora  was  talking  as  she  hadn't  since  she  was  a  girl  at  boarding  school.  She  was  telling  Paul  everything  about  her  life-which  wasn't  much,  except  that  she  felt  it  all  with  such  intensity.  She  told  him  about  her  family,  too,  and  this  was  the  part  he  liked  best.  She  seemed  to  dwell  mostly  on  their  shortcomings-their  conventionality,  their  narrow  out-  look-but  what  he  wanted  to  hear  about  was  their  money  and  family  genealogy.  It  made  him  shudder  with  pleasure  to  contemplate  how  the  prop-  er  investments  of  one  ancestor-a  tea  importer-had  of  their  own  accord  and  with  great  dignity  (so  he  liked  to  think)  grown  and  grown,  so  that  there  was  now  a  river  of  money  that  flowed  without  cease  for  the  benefit  of  the  descendants.  It  gave  him  an  emotion     more  profound  than  sexual  pleasure  to  contemplate  Dora  in  the  light  reflected  from  this  river.  But  for  her  the  thrill  was  to  think  that  none  of  it  mattered-  the  family,  the  family's  position,  the  family  money.  Only  she  and  Paul  mat-  tered-Paul  who  possessed  nothing  ex-  cept  himself,  and  she,  Dora,  sitting  there  so  simply  on  the  floor,  hugging  her  knees  and  revealing  herself  to  him  in  her  entirety,  with  whatever  inward  splendors  she  might  have.  ora's  mother  was  almost  beside  herself:  &quot;Why  aren't  you  in  your  apartment?  Is  she  worse?  Is  that  why  you've  moved  in?  Tell  me,  Dora.&quot;  &quot;She's  not  worse,&quot;  Dora  said,  spac-  ing  herwords,  &quot;You  don't  have  to  come.&quot;  &quot;I  can  be  there  on  the  next  plane.&quot;  &quot;You-  don't-  have  -to  -come.  Mother,  please?&quot;  Dora  told  Paul  how  her  motherand  Stella,  although  they  were  sisters,  had  never  got  on.  They  were  different  from  each  other  in  just  the  same  way  that  Dora  was  from  all  the  other  girls  in  the  family.  It  made  her  indignant  that  her  mother  should  now  wish  to  come  into  this  house,  as  if  she  had  a  greater  rightto  be  there  than  those  who  truly  loved  Stella.  &quot;Your  mother  doesn't  like  me  to  be  here,&quot;  Paul  said,  casting  his  eyes  down-  ward,  as  if  admitting  with  shame  that  Dora's  mother  had  reasonnot  to  do  so.  &quot;She  doesn't  like  eitherof  us-me  or  Annette.&quot;  &quot;As  if  youhad  anything  in  common  with  Annette!&quot;  Paul  kept  his  eyes  cast  down.  Stella's  nights  were  restless  now,  and  Annette  made  Paul  install  a  bed  in  Stella's  room,  so  that  she  could  be  with  her.  Although  by  nature  a  very  sound  sleeper,  Annette  woke  at  the  least  sound  from  Stella.  She  seemed  to  be  waiting  and  watching,  not  just  for  Stella  but  for  the  others  in  the  house  as  well.  &quot;What  is  it?  What  are  they  do-  ing?&quot;  Stella  asked  one  evening,  no-  ticing  Annette  alert  for  sounds  from  elsewhere.  &quot;He  is  in  her  room,&quot;  Annette  said.  &quot;Ah,&quot;  breathed  Stella,  full  of  satis-  faction.  She  dozed  off  for  a  while,  and  when  she  woke  again  Annette  was  still  sitting  on  the  side  of  her  bed,  although  it  was  very  late  in  the  night.  &quot;How  good  you  are,  how  kind,&quot;  said  Stella,  devouring  Annette  with  eyes  of  love,  There  was  a  night  light  in  the  room;  the  snow  had  again  begun  to  fall.  &quot;The  family  won't  like  it,&quot;  Stella  said  dreamily,  &quot;They'll  hate  it.  But  I'vetold  her,to  hell  with  the  family.  When  you've  found  atreasure  for  yourself,  you  don't  give  it  up  for  them.  Wouldn't  I  have  been  a  fool  to  give  you  up?  And  not  have  you  sitting  here  now?&quot;  She  squeezed  Annette's  hand  in  gratitude  and  shut  her  eyes.  Annette  kept  her  hand  in  Stella's,  but  she  didn't  pay  much  attention  to  her.  She  was  still  listening  for  sounds  from  the  rest  of  the  house.  It  disturbed  her  to  hear  the  door  of  Dora's  room  open  downstairs  and  then  Paul  going  softly  up  the  stairs,  past  Stella's  door  (Annette  was  so  alert  that  she  could  hear  him  breathe),  and  up  to  his  own  room  at  the  top  of  the  house.  She  waited  for  Stella  to  doze  off  again,  and  then  she  disengaged  her  hand  and  went  up  to  join  Paul.  She  was  quite  rough  withhim.  &quot;What's  the  matter  with  you?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Why  aren't  you  with  her?&quot;  &quot;We've  said  good  night,&quot;  he  an-  swered  defiantly.  She  gazed  down  at  him  as  he  lay  in  " b"bed  in  his  striped  pa-  jamas.  &quot;Move  over,&quot;  she  said.  He  was  getting  quite  good  with  her-  so  good,  in  fact,  that  he  had  learned  to  put  his  hand  over  her  mouth  so  that  her  cry  could  not  penetrate  the  rest  of  the  house.  After  a  while,  she  said,  &quot;Now  go  to  her.&quot;  But  he  didn't  move  from  her  side.  &quot;What  shall  I  do  with  you?&quot;  she  said,  in  loving  despair.  He  had  his  eyes  shut,  stretched  out  be-  side  her  like  a  knight  on  a  tomb.  &quot;Just  stay  with  me,&quot;  he  mur-  mured.  ''Yes,  that  would  be  nice,  wouldn't  it?&quot;  she  said  sarcastically.  She  knew  only  too  well  that  it  would  be  glorious,  but  she  could  not  afford  to  indulge  herself.  &quot;Get  up!&quot;  she  or-  dered.  &quot;Go  down!  Why  not?  You  like  her.&quot;  &quot;I  respect  her.&quot;  She  laughed.  &quot;And  not  me?&quot;  He  turned  his  face  to  her  and  sank  his  teeth  into  the  soft,  middle-aged,  yet  still  full  and  luscious  flesh  of  her  naked  upper  arms.  She  didn't  urge  him  any  further  but  gave  in  to  the  luxury  of  staying  beside  him.  She  knew  that  Stella  might  wake  up  any  moment,  but  she  didn't  care,  It  was  he  who  had  to  remind  her.  &quot;Let  her  wait,&quot;  she  said.  She  was  silent,  and  her  thoughts  made  her  bit-  ter.  &quot;We  can  have  these  five  minutes.  We're  not  going  to  get  much  else.  Not  if  you  don't  go  down.&quot;  &quot;She  doesn't  want  to,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Doesn't  she!&quot;  Annette  gave  her  bark  of  a  laugh.  &quot;They  don't  know  what  they  want,  those  parasites.  We  have  to  teach  them  everything-what  to  do  with  themselves,  their  time,  their  money.  Even  that  they  don't  know!  When  I  first  met  Stella,  I  took  her  shopping.  I  made  her  buy  all  sorts  of  things:  little  purses  and  scarves  and  some  nicepins  and  a  lot  of  under-  clothes-mine  were  in  tatters-and  at  lunch  we  got  a  bit  drunk  on  Martinis,  and  then  I  felt  like  going  on  one  of  those  buggy  rides  around  the  Park,  so  we  did  that,  and,  my  God,  she  loved  it!  Her  big  fat  face  went  all  red,  and  she  said,  'Isn't  this  fun,  Annette&quot;  Such  a  stupid,  silly  thing,  which  she  could  have  done  every  day  if  she  want-  ed!  But  they  don't  know  how  to  en-  joy  anything.  And  me,  who  was  born  to  enjoy  a  lot  more  than  a  buggy  ride  around  the  Park,  I  had  to  sit  there  jog-jogging  along  with  her.  Tchk-  tchk,  tchk-tchk,&quot;  said  Annette  in  dis-  gust,  making  coachman  noises,  while  her  naked  arms  above  the  bedclothes  pretended  to  hold  reins.  &quot;I  think  she's  calling,&quot;  Paul  said,  sitting  up  in  bed.  &quot;Who  cares?&quot;  She  pulled  him  down  again.  &quot;All  right,  so  you'll  go  back  to  being  a  waiter.  You'll  meet  someone  in  the  restaurant-a  man,  a  woman--  someone  who'll  like  you  and  want  to  takecare  of  you,  and  you'll  start  all  over.  But  what'll  I  do?&quot;  &quot;What  you've  always  done.&quot;  &quot;I  need  to  rest,  Paul.&quot;  The  way  she  said  that  made  him  look  at  her,  and  he  saw  that  her  face  was  old.  But  he  took  no  pity  on  her.  He  said,  &quot;She  is  calling.  You'll  have  to  go.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  want  to.  I've  done  enough  for  her.&quot;  He  pulled  the  bedclothes  back  from  her,  but  still  she  wouldn't  get  up.  Stella  was  calling  louder.  Paul  leaped  over  Annette's  naked  body,  and,  strug-  gling  into  his  dressing  gown,  went  to  the  door.  At  the  same  time,  Dora's  door  opened  below.  &quot;Is  Stella  calling?&quot;  she  asked.  Paul  came  down  from  his  room  and  Dora  met  him  on  the  stairs.  &quot;Some-  thing's  happened,&quot;  Dora  said.  &quot;Where's  Annette?&quot;  Then  she  looked  up  and  she  saw  her.  Annette  stood  in  the  doorway  of  Paul's  room,  plump  and  nude,  filling  it  com-  pletely;  she  had  one  arm  raised  against  the  doorpost.  &quot;'You'll  have  to  give  her  her  pills,&quot;  she  called  down.  Dora  went  in  and  searched  around  for  the  right  pills,  but  it  was  Paul  who  knew  where  they  were.  It  was  also  Paul  who  got  the  water  and  supported  Stellain  bed  to  help  her  take  her  medicine.  He  spoke  soothingly  to  her  and  said  that  Annette  would  be  com-  ing  soon.  Dora  saw  that  Stella  was  in  good  hands  forthe  moment,  so  she  went  to  the  telephone  and  dialled  the  Vineyard,  and  when  her  mother  an-  swered  she  said,  &quot;You'd  better  come  now.&quot; "