 b"THE  life  class  was  meeting  out-  doors.  The  model  sat  cross-  legged  on  a  glaring  yellow  ground  cloth.  George  Lent,  instructor  in  philosophy  at  the  Day  Extension  College,  emerged  from  the  classroom  building  and  shaded  his  eyes.  The  mod-  el's  narrow,  erect  breasts  reminded  him  of  snouts.  She  was  reading  &quot;The  Idiot,&quot;  her  brows  contorted.  Most  of  the  easels  were  clustered  in  direct  morning  sun,  arranged  to  afford  a  full  frontal  view  of  the  model.  George  wanted  to  get  closer  to  the  sweating  painters  so  he  could  take  a  better  look  at  her,  but  he  noticed  that  Errol  Foy,  one  of  his  students,  was  present-positioned  mod-  estly,  as  always,  slightly  to  the  side  of  the  model.  Errol  was  painting  a  chaste,  crude  head-and-shoulder  profile  in  colors  as  close  to  nature  as  he  could  manage.  A  maple  leaf  was  taped  to  the  palette  next  to  the  green  he  was  mixing.  George  hesitated.  He  wanted  Errol's  good  opinion.  He  went  back  in-  side  the  school.  Most  of  the  Day  Extension  students  were  city  firemen  attending  on  their  days  off  and  somehow  being  paid  for  it  by  the  Veterans  Administration.  It  was  embarrassing  to  be  teaching  men  who  would  disappear  periodically  and  reap-  pear  limping-or  burned,  or  with  har-rowing  coughs-and  say  nothing  about  their  injuries.  George  was  ashamed  of  his  chronic  complaints,  all  of  them  trivial  but  all  of  them  worse  since  his  wife  had  left  him.  Possibly  the  ringing  in  his  right  ear  was  not  trivial.  Today  Errol  had  a  bandaged  elbow,  which  drew  comment  from  some  ofthe  other  students.  All  Errol  would  say  was  that  he  had  fallen.  When  Errol  was  out  of  earshot,  the  others  had  said  that  he  was  probably  telling  the  truth,  because  prob-  ably  he  had  fallen  off  his  wife.  Errol  was  married  toa  large  woman.  Errol  was  hated,  which  George  didn't  understand.  Evidently,  he  was  hated  partlyfor  his  studiousness.  He  attracted  mocking  sucking  and  kissing  sounds  when  his  back  was  turned.  His  name  was  considered  ridiculous.  He  was  susceptible  to  the  same  distracting  but  minor  kinds  of  afflictions  that  George  was.  Problems  of  Philosophy  had  been  meeting  outside  until  Errol,  gasping  for  breath,  had  asked  that  they  meet  indoors  while  the  rose  season  last-  ed.  He  suffered  from  rose  fever,  which,  he  informed  his  hilarious  comrades,  was  exactly  like  hay  fever  except  that  it  was  worse.  George  had  reminded  them  that  there  was  nothing  funny  about  allergies.  Roses  grew  all  around  the  porch  where  the  class  had  been  meeting.  There  was  ample,  comfortable  room  inside-the  Extension  was  temporarily  housed  in  a  run-down  mansion  whose  ownership  was  in  litigation  between  two  heirs  but  resentment  against  Errol  persisted  for  causing  the  move  indoors.  Errol  was  in  his  late  thirties.  It  was  true  that  he  was  odd-looking.  His  pre-  maturely  white  hair  was  worn  very  short.  He  had  a  muscular  neck.  His  ears  cleaved  to  his  head,  so  that  full  face  helooked  fishlike  at  first.  His  teeth  were  perfect,  almost  delicate.  His  fea-  tures  were  handsome  but  in  some  way  discrepant  with  his  strangulated  high  tenor  speaking  voice.  Everything  Errol  said  made  people  smile.  George  felt  that  he  looked  something  like  Errol.  He  considered  himself  handsome  but  felt  his  head  was  too  small.  In  class,  Errol  followed  everything  George  said,  doggedly,  his  eyes  always  on  George's  face.  At  times,  he  took  notes  feverishly.  He  frequently  asked  for  definitions.  George  had  been  impressed  by  Errol's  assiduous  underlining  ac-  tivity  during  class.  Once,  when  Errol  was  out  of  the  room,  George  had  tak-  en  a  look  at  his  philosophy  text.  Either  Errol  wanted  to  remember  everything  or  he  was  using  underlining  as  a  means  of  registering  how  far  he  had  read.  Recently,  George  had  penetrated  a  set  of  taunts  often  used  against  Errol.  It  was  Errol's  practice  to  leave  the  life  class  half  an  hour  earlier  than  the  others  and  go  upstairs.  Jokes  were  made  about  Errol's  being  the  world's  fastest  painter.  The  painting  instructor  explained  to  George  that  Errol  left  early  in  order  quickly  to  paint  a  landscape  or  still-life  to  take  home  to  his  wife.  Errol's  nudes  were  upstairs  in  a  closet.  Small  things  made  George  ap-  prove  of  Errol.  For  instance,  Er-  rol  was  the  only  one  in  the  school  with  enough  curiosity  to  ask  George  why,  at  the  age  of  forty,  he  was  teaching  for  the  first  time  in  his  life.  All  the  others  had  been  satisfied  with  George's  allusions  to  the  collapse  of  his  job  as  a  fund-raiser  for  an  unspe-  cified  cause  organization.  Since  Errol  was  a  member  of  the  Na-  tional  Guard,  George  had  felt  un-  easy  about  revealing  to  him  that  he  had  worked  for  years  in  the  anti-conscription  movement.  But  there  had  been  no  particular  reac-  tion,  and  presumably  Errol  hadn't  spread  the  word.  Errol  took  a  familiar  tone  with  George.  He  pronounced  his  last  name  with  a  peculiar  impera-  " b"tive  force,  adding  an  aspirate:  &quot;Lhent!&quot;  The  pronunciation  was  spreading.  George  found  himself  liking  it.  It  was  sounding  cor-  rect.  Did  Errol  some-  how  sense  that  George  was  feeling  crushed  by  life?  In  order  to  get  this  appointment  as  an  unranked  instructor,  George  had  had  to  humble  himself  to  a  remote  acquaintance.  Was  Errol  trying  to  be  helpful?  He  wanted  to  be  humorless,  like  Errol,  for  a  while.  Errol  had  been  disapproving  of  somebody's  attempt  at  humor  during  class.  Someone  had  volun-  teeredthe  little-known  fact  that  the  first  man  off  [REDACTED]'s  boat  in  the  New  World  was  an  Irishman.  Someone  else  had  said  that  of  course  it  was,  because  somebody  had  to  get  off  and  set  up  the  bar  for  the  other  guys.  Er-  rol  objected  to  jokes  connecting  alco-  hol  and  the  Irish.  Errol  was  also  inflexi-  ble.  According  to  school  regulations,  any  non-smoker  could  demand  that  smoking  cease  during  class  time.  Errol  always  did.  Why  firemen  smoked  so  heavily  was  aquestion  that  bothered  George,  like  the  question  of  why  Errol  didn't  smoke-if  the  habit  was  as  intrin-  sic  to  firefighting  as  it  appeared  to  be.  There  was  one  question  Errol  want-  ed  answered  with  respect  to  every  thinker  whose  name  came  up.  George  had  had  difficulty  the  first  time  the  question  was  asked-in  connection  with  Hegel.  Errol  had  asked,  &quot;Is  he  a  ra-  tional?&quot;  George  had  understood  this  to  mean  &quot;Is  he  irrational?&quot;  George  had  considered  it  a  good  question,  and  had  talked  expansively,  taking  both  sides  of  the  issue,  until  he  noticed  that  Errol  was  dissatisfied.  He  discovered  then  that  what  Errol  meant  was  &quot;a  rational&quot;  and  by  that  he  meant  &quot;a  ra-  tionalist.&quot;  To  Errol  a  rationalist  was  an  atheist.  Sincethen,  the  question  had  been  asked  about  even  the  most  minor  figures  in  the  history  of  thought.  George  wondered  why  Errol  wanted  to  know.  He  felt  himself  disguising  his  own  atheism  when  it  threatened  to  emerge  during  discussions.  He  present-  ed  himself  as,  at  worst,  neutral.  It  was  unlike  him.  Errol  seemed  happy  just  to  have  the  information  about  each  name,  whatever  it  was.  There  was  no  signthat  he  was  happier  to  hear  that  someone  was  a  believer  than  not.  Why  was  Errol  happy,  in  general?  Nothing  embarrassed  Errol.  When  it  came  to  mispronunciation,  which  was  widespread  in  the  school,  Errol  was  the  worst  offender.  Errol  wanted  cor-  rection.  He  asked  if  other  people  were  pronouncing  words  correctly.  He  brought  down  a  rain  of  corrections  on  everyone,  which  was  fortunate,  since,  George  had  discovered,  it  was  essential  to  correct  mispronunciations  at  their  first  appearance.  If  he  allowed  them  to  pass,  he  was  implicated:  his  own  pro-  nunciation  would  courteously  adapt  to  the  incorrect  one.  This  had  happened  with  the  word  &quot;genitals,&quot;  which  George  had  allowed  to  pass  as  &quot;genteels.&quot;  GEORGE  described  himself  to  him-  self  as  being  in  arrears.  He  was  being  crushed  by  library  fines,  bills,  unread  magazines.  He  felt  both  that  he  should  sell  his  house  and  that  it  was  unsalable  without  considerable  repair  work,  but  that  since  this  was  work  of  the  sort  he  was  capable  of  performing  himself,  it  would  be  intolerable  tohire  labor  to  do  it.  He  was  thinking  of  the  punctured  rain  gutters.  'The  house  looked  especially  bad  when  it  rained.  It  had  been  a  damp  summer.  His  car  horn  worked,  but  only  if  he  pressed  the  horn  ring  in  precisely  the  right  spot.  It  had  given  him  some  bad  moments,  but  he  felt  unable  to  take  the  car  in  for  repair  until  the  horn  was  definitively  broken.  He  felt  it  was  pointless  to  re-  main  in  the  suburbs.  On  the  other  hand,  his  job  was  here,  and  his  wife.  She  was  living  in  a  commune  of  di-  vorced  and  separated  women,  not  far  from  the  college.  Inaction  was  the  problem.  Pinned  to  the  wall  over  the  kitchen  table  at  home  was  a  display  of  head-  lines  collected  mainly  by  his  wife.  He  knew  them  by  heart:  Insane  CRIMINALS  Winx  New  Ricuts  Coast  Womax,  25,  Has  Festive  NameEe  6-Foor  Bocus  Wire  Ross  SinoEr's  Room  WHr  HE  Sowers  17,636  Laxnprorps  AccusED  or  Lying  They  flanked  a  news  photograph  of  Willy  Brandt  trying  to  eat  corn  on  " b"the  cob  by  biting  the  end  off  the  cob.  The  display  was  lacerating  to  him,  now  that  she  was  gone.  He  intended  to  take  it  down  soon.  George  hated  the  commune.  Lately,  his  wife  seemed  horrified  at  his  appear-  ance.  He  had  lost  thirty-five  pounds.  &quot;Why  are  you  doing  this?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;Is  this  to  put  pressure  on  me  by  com-  ing  over  here  looking  like  a  skeleton  suddenly?  It  won't  work.&quot;  &quot;No,  not  at  all.  Nothing  to  do  with  you.  You  miss  the  point.  The  point  of  doing  it  is  this:  I  have  a  theory,  Right  now  my  life  is  in  ruins.  But  being  really  thin  at  ourage  is  usually  a  sign  of  self-control.  Being  this  thin  conveys  an  idea  about  me,  such  as  that  my  sit-  uation  of  leaving  one  kind  of  work  totally  and  going  into  the  college  might  be  deliberate,  conceivably.  Any-  way,  it  makes  that  interpretation  pos-  sible.&quot;  &quot;Well,  but  not  if  your  clothes  are  hanging  on  you  like  wrappings.  You  could  at  least  get  a  new  beltso  the  end  doesn't  stick  out  like  a  lever  like  that.  Or  at  least  get  some  new  pants.&quot;  This  led  to  a  discussion  about  money  and  about  disposing  of  the  house,  dur-  ing  which  tears  came  into  his  eyes.  She  reminded  him  that  she  had  for-bidden  him  to  come  to  the  commune  unless  he  was  in  emotional  control  of  himself.  She  always  made  it  impossible  for  him  to  explain  what  was  upsetting  him.  Their  house  was  on  wooded  land  adjoining  a  state  park.  For  years  she  had  refused  to  have  household  pets.  She  rejected  cats  because  they  were  stealthy  and  she  had  once,  as  a  child,  stepped  on  one  in  the  middle  of  the  night.  Dogs  she  rejected  because  she  consid-  ered  them  servile.  Now  George  was  bearing  the  deferred  cost.  Their  house  was  a  haven  for  rodents  of  all  kinds.  Woodpeckers  had  chopped  arabesques  into  the  facings  of  the  roof,  He  was  afraid  to  show  the  house  while  the  rustling  in  the  walls  and  ceiling  was  so  continuous.  It  was  injustice  that  had  upset  him,.  " b"There  was  something  else  upsetting  about  the  house,  He  had  alwaysbeen  proud  of  the  unscreened  porch  project-  ing  deep  into  foliage.  Even  when  meals  were  served  on  the  porch,  there  were  very  few  insects.  His  theory,  which  all  their  guests  had  heard  at  one  time  or  another,  was  that  because  they  had  refused  to  disturb  the  balance  of  nature  around  and  on  the  porch,  natu-  ral  predators  were  taking  care  of  the  insects.  They  had  allowed  wasps  and  birdsto  construct  nests  there  at  will.  From  year  to  year  nests  of  all  kinds  had  been  left  undisturbed.  Now  the  porch  looked  inexplicable,  All  the  nests  would  have  to  be  knocked  down  before  the  house  could  go  on  sale.  He  knew  it  was  fatuous,  but  the  idea  of  knocking  them  down  felt  like  betrayal.  PROBLEMS  or  PHuirosopHy  proceed-  ed.  George's  attention  wandered.  The  students  could  talk  about  capital  punishment  forever  without  him.  He  was  sleeping  badly.  His  eyes  hurt.  Sometimes  he  needed  a  mental  image  of  someone  who  was  genuinely  pa-  thetic.  He  tried  to  think  of  one.  Noth-  ing  came  to  him.  George  dismissed  his  last  class  early.  On  impulsehe  stepped  into  the  hall  and  called  Errol  back.  Immediately  he  was  embarrassed  about  what  he  was  doing.  He  asked  Errol  to  sit  down,  and  then  decided  it  would  be  better  if  they  both  stood.  &quot;We  can  stand  up.  This  is  going  to  take  about  one  minute,  Er-  rol,&quot;  George  said,  disliking  the  way  his  voice  sounded.  &quot;Errol,  I  wanted  to  say  something  you  probably  don't  need  to  hear.  I  saw  the  way  they  rode  you  all  the  time,  is  all.  It  appalled  me.  There's  no  reason  for  it.&quot;  He  waited  as  long  as  he  could  for  Errol  to  reply.  He  continued,  &quot;Any-  way,  I  wanted  you  to  know  I  noticed  it.  I  don't  know  where  you  get  your  equanimity.&quot;  He  regretted  the  word.  &quot;How  can  you  smile  about  this?&quot;  &quot;'They  don't  bother  me.&quot;  &quot;Why  not,  though?&quot;  Errol  only  smiled  more  contemptu-  ously.  George  repeated  himself.  &quot;They  never  let  up.  Why  doesn't  it  bother  you?&quot;  Errol's  smile  was  unwavering.  George  said,  &quot;You're  religious.  Is  it  that?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  he  said  vehemently.  &quot;It's  not  something  you  talk  about?&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cNO.\xe2\x80\x9d  Errol  seemed  willing  to  stand  there  indefinitely.  George  sat  down.  He  closed  his  eyes.  When  he  opened  them  the  room  would  be  empty."