 b"SINCE  it's  Sunday  and  it's  stopped  raining,  I  think  I'll  take  a  bou-quet  of  roses  to  my  grave.  Red  and  white  roses,  the  kind  that  she  grows  to  decorate  altars  and  wreaths.  The  morning  has  been  saddened  by  the  taciturn  and  overwhelming  winter,  which  has  set  me  to  remembering  the  knoll  where  the  townspeople  abandon  their  dead.  It's  a  bare,  treeless  place,  swept  only  by  the  providential  crumbs  that  return  after  the  wind  has  passed.  Now  that  it's  stopped  raining  and  the  noonday  sun  has  probably  hardened  the  soapy  slope,  I  should  be  able  to  reach  the  grave  where  my  body  as  a  child  rests,  mingled  now,  dispersed  among  snails  and  roots.  She  is  prostrate  before  her  saints.  She's  remained  abstracted  since  I  stopped  moving  in  the  room,  when  I  failed  in  my  first  attempt  to  reach  the  altar  and  pick  the  brightest  and  fresh-  est  roses,  Maybe  I  could  have  done  it,  but  the  little  lamp  blinked  and  she,  re-  covered  from  her  ecstasy,  raised  her  head  and  looked  toward  the  corner  where  the  chair  is.  She  must  have  thought,  It's  the  wind  again,  because  it's  true  that  something  creaked  beside  the  altar,  and  the  room  rocked  for  an  instant,  as  if  the  level  of  the  memories  stagnant  in  it  for  so  long  had  shifted.  Then  I  understood  that  I  would  have  to  wait  for  another  occasion  to  get  the  PS  roses,  because  she  was  still  awake,  look-  ing  at  the  chair,  and  she  would  have  heard  the  sound  of  my  hands  beside  her  face.  Now  I've  got  to  wait  until  she  leaves  the  room  in  a  moment  and  goes  to  the  one  next  door  to  sleep  her  measured  and  invariable  Sunday  siesta.  Maybe  then  I  can  leave  with  the  roses  and  be  back  before  she  returns  to  this  room  and  keeps  looking  at  the  chair.  Last  Sunday  was  more  difficult.  I  had  to  wait  almost  two  hours  for  her  to  fall  into  ecstasy.  She  seemed  restless,  preoccupied,  as  if  she  were  tormented  by  the  certainty  that  her  solitude  in  the  house  had  suddenly  become  less  in-  tense.  She  took  several  turns  about  the  room  with  the  bouquet  of  roses  before  leaving  it  on  the  altar.  Then  she  went  out  into  the  hallway  and  into  the  next  room.  I  knew  that  she  was  looking  for  the  lamp.  And  later,  when  she  passed  by  the  door  again  and  I  saw  her  in  the  light  of  the  hall  with  her  dark  little  jacket  and  her  pink  stockings,  it  seemed  to  me  that  she  was  still  the  girl  who  forty  years  ago  had  leaned  over  my  bed  in  this  same  room  and  said,  &quot;Now  that  they've  put  in  the  toothpicks,  your  eyes  are  open  and  hard.&quot;  She  was  just  the  same,  as  if  time  hadn't  passed  since  that  remote  August  afternoon  when  the  women  brought  her  into  the  room  and  showed  her  thecorpse  and  told  her,  &quot;Weep-he  was  like  a  brother  to  you,&quot; and  she  leaned  against  the  wall,  weep-  ing,  obeying,  still  soaked  from  the  rain.  For  three  orfour  Sundays  now  I've  been  trying  to  get  to  where  the  roses  are,  but  she's  been  vigilant  in  front  of  the  altar,  keeping  watch  over  the  roses  with  a  frightened  diligencethatI  hadn't  known  in  her  in  the  twenty  years  she's  been  living  in  the  house,  Last  Sunday,  when  she  went  out  to  getthe  lamp,  I  managed  to  put  a  bouquet  of  the  best  roses  together.  At  no  moment  had  I  been  closer  to  fulfill-  ing  my  desires.  But  when  I  was  get-  ting  ready  to  return  to  the  chair  I  heard  her  steps  in  the  corridor  again.  I  rearranged  the  roses  on  the  altar  quickly  and  then  I  saw  her  appear  in  the  doorway  with  the  lamp  held  high.  She  was  wearing  her  dark  little  jacket  and  the  pink  stockings,  but  on  her  face  there  was  something  like  the  phosphorescence  of  a  revelation.  She  didn't  seem  then  to  be  the  woman  who  for  twenty  years  has  been  growing  roses  in  the  garden;  coming  back  now  with  a  lamp,  fat  and  grown  old,  forty  years  later,  she  was  still  the  same  child  who  on  that  August  afternoon  had  been  brought  into  the  next  room  so  that  she  could  change  her  clothes.  Y  shoes  still  have  the  hard  crust  ofclay  which  had  formedon  them  that  afternoon,  even  though  they've  been  drying  beside  the  extin-  guished  stove  for  forty  years.  One  day  I  went  to  get  them.  That  was  after  they'd  closed  up  the  doors,  taken  down  the  bread  and  the  sprig  of  aloe  from  the  entrance-  way,  and  removed  the  furniture.  All  the  fur-  niture  except  for  the  chair  in  the  corner,  which  has  served  me  as  a  seat  all  this  time.  I  knew  that  the  shoes  had  been  set  to  dry,  and  they  didn't  even  remember  them  when  they  abandoned  the  house,  'That's  why  I  went  to  get  them.  She  returned  many  years  later.  So  much  time  had  passed  that  the  smell  of  musk  in  the  room  had  blended  in  with  the  smell  of  the  dust,  with  the  dry  and  tiny  breath  of  the  in-  sects.  I  was  alone  in  the  house,  sitting  in  the  corner,  waiting.  And  I  had  learned  to  make  out  the  sound  of  rot-" b"ting  wood,  the  flutter  of  the  air  becom-  ing  old  in  the  closed  bedrooms.  That  was  when  she  came.  She  stood  in  the  door  with  a  suitcase  in  herhand,  wear-  ing  a  green  hat  and  the  same  little  cotton  jacket,  which  she  hadn't  ever  taken  off.  She  was  still  a  girl.  She  hadn't  begun  to  get  fat  and  her  ankles  didn't  swell  under  her  stockings  as  they  do  now.  I  was  covered  with  dust  and  cobwebs  when  she  opened  the  door,  and  somewhere  in  the  room  the  cricket  who'd  been  singing  for  twenty  years  fell  silent.  But  in  spite  of  that-  in  spite  of  the  cobwebs  and  the  dust,  the  sudden  reluctance  of  the  cricket,  and  the  new  age  of  the  one  who  had  just  arrived-I  recognized  in  her  the  girl  who  on  that  stormy  August  after-  noon  had  gone  with  me  to  collect  nests  in  the  stable.  Just  the  way  she  was-  standing  in  the  doorway  with  the  suit-  case  in  her  hand  and  her  green  hat  on-she  looked  as  if  she  were  suddenly  going  to  shout,say  the  same  thing  she'd  said  when  they  found  me  face  up  on  the  hay-covered  stable  floor,  still  grasp-  ing  the  railing  of  the  broken  stairs.  When  she  opened  the  door  wide,  the  hinges  creaked  and  the  dust  from  the  ceiling  fell  in  clumps,  as  if  someone  had  started  hammering  on  the  ridge  of  the  roof;  she  paused  on  the  threshold,  then  came  halfway  into  the  room,  and,  with  the  voice  of  someone  calling  a  sleeping  person,  she  said,  &quot;Boy!  Boy!&quot;  And  I  remained  still  in  the  chair,  rigid,  with  my  feet  stretched  out.  I  thought  she  had  come  only  to  see  the  room,  but  she  continued  living  in  the  house.  She  aired  out  the  room,  and  it  was  as  if  she  had  opened  her  suitcase  and  her  old  smell  of  musk  had  come  from  it.  The  others  had  taken  the  fur-  niture  and  clothing  away  in  trunks.  She  had  taken  away  only  the  smells  of  the  room,  and  twenty  years  later  she  brought  them  back  again,  put  them  in  their  place,  and  rebuilt  the  little  altar,  just  the  way  it  was  before.  Her  pres-  ence  alone  was  enough  to  restore  what  the  implacable  industry  of  time  had  destroyed.  Since  then  she  has  eaten  and  slept  in  the  room  next  door,  but  she  spends  the  day  inthis  one,  conversing  silently  with  the  saints.  In  the  after-  noons  she  sits  in  the  rocker  next  to  the  door  and  mends  clothing.  And  when  someone  comes  for  a  bouquet  of  roses  she  puts  the  money  in  the  corner  of  the  kerchief  that  she  ties  to  her  belt  and  invariably  says,  &quot;Pick  the  ones  on  the  right;  those  on  the  left  are  forthe  saints.&quot;  That's  the  way  she's  been  for  twen-  ty  years-in  the  rocker,  darning  her  things,  rocking,  looking  at  the  chair  as  if  now  she  were  taking  care  not  of  the  boy  with  whom  she  had  shared  her  childhood  afternoons  but  of  an  invalid  grandson  who  has  been  sitting  here  in  the  corner  ever  since  the  time  his  grandmother  was  five  years  old.  It's  possible  that  now,  when  she  low-  ers  her  head  again,  I  can  approach  the  roses.  If  I  can  manage  to  do  so,  I'll  go  to  the  knoll,  lay  them  on  the  grave,  and  come  back  to  my  chair  to  wait  for  the  day  when  she  won't  come  back  to  this  room  and  the  sounds  will  cease  in  all  the  rooms.  On  that  day  there  will  bea  change  in  all  this,  because  I'll  have  to  leave  the  house  again  in  order  to  tell  someone  that  the  rose  woman,  the  one  who  lives  in  the  tumbledown  house,  is  in  need  of  four  men  to  take  her  to  the  knoll.  Then  I'll  be  alone  forever  in  the  room.  But,  on  the  other  hand,  she'll  be  satisfied.  Because  on  that  day  she'll  learn  that  it  wasn't  the  invisible  wind  that  came  to  her  altar  every  Sunday  and  disarranged  these  roses. "