 b"THE  other  day  my  mother  died  and  of  course  that  meant  getting  an  undertaker  so  I  gotout  the  Yellow  Pages  and  turned  to  Under-  takers  which  referred  me  to  Funeral  Directors  where  I  looked  over  the  names  until  I  found  one  that  sounded  sufficiently  dignified.  I  called  this  Mr.  [REDACTED]  who  said  he  was  very  sorry  to  hear  about  my  mother  whom  he  had  met  once  or  twice  at  PTA  meetings  but  he  was  of  course  very  glad  to  be  of  assistance  at  this  trying  time  and  would  take  care  of  everything  even  the  casket  unless  I  wished  to  come  in  and  pick  one  out  at  my  convenience.  I  did  so  that  very  afternoon  selecting  a  high-priced  model  made  of  red  cherry  even  though  I  knew  my  wife  would  kick  up  a  fuss  over  the  needless  expense  since  a  pine  box  would  do  the  job  but  when  it's  your  own  mother  how  can  you  send  herout  of  this  world  in  any-  thing  less  than  the  best  and  even  though  I  took  my  lumps  that  night  it  was  still  worth  it.  The  next  morning  I  called  the  florist  for  flowers  from  all  of  us  and  he  said  it  would  be  about  a  hundred  dollars  but  everyone  agreed  that  the  money  was  well  spent  when  they  saw  the  beautiful  casket  piece  that  said  MOTHER  and  the  lovely  spray  of  irises  that  said  GRANDMOTHER  and  the  bouquet  of  tiny  white  roses  that  said  GREAT-  GRANDMOTHER.  I  felt  particularly  bad  seeing  them  because  Mama  enjoyed  flowers  so  much  but  she  said  not  to  worry  she  thought  they  were  just  beautiful  too  and  certainly  worth  every  penny  we  spent  on  them.  The  fact  of  the  matter  is  that  my  two  sisters  never  actually  paid  me  for  their  share  although  I  hated  to  remind  them  and  cause  hard  feelings  but  that's  really  a  whole  other  story.  For  the  wake  that  evening  Mr.  [REDACTED]  wanted  the  family  there  about  a  half  hour  before  calling  hours  began  and  he  met  us  at  the  door  very  nattily  attired  in  his  red  tails  and  top  hat  and  white  gloves  and  showed  us  how  ev-  erything  was  arranged  and  said  he  hoped  it  was  satisfactory  and  we  all  agreed  it  was  very  nice  and  couldn't  have  been  better.  We  sat  down  in  the  chairs  lined  up  along  the  side  especially  for  the  immediate  family  and  I  for  one  felt  a  bit  silly  sitting  there  quietly  waiting  for  the  show  to  begin  because  no  one  else  had  come.  Even  though  it  was  still  fifteen  minutes  until  the  calling  hours  officially  started  I  was  certain  no  one  would  show  up  because  my  mother  was  in  her  nineties  and  had  outlived  almost  everyone  she  knew  in-  cluding  two  husbands  and  three  chil-  dren  and  even  a  grandson  killed  in  a  motorcycle  accident.  As  we  sat  there  waiting  I  noticed  an  odd  pungent  aroma  like  manure  and  went  over  to  Mr.  [REDACTED]  and  asked  about  the  smell  for  which  he  apologized  profusely  say-  ing  that  it  was  from  the  cats  having  stayed  the  night.  Although  they  usu-  ally  didn't  there  had  been  a  funeral  just  the  day  before  and  since  he'd  be  needing  them  again  so  soon  he  decided  to  keep  them  this  one  timebut  saw  now  that  it  had  been  a  serious  error  in  judg-  ment  on  his  part  and  he  swore  he  would  never  do  it  again  as  he  hastily  sprayed  the  premises  with  Lysol  brand  disinfectant  spray.  After  that  the  odor  was  barely  noticeable.  I  sat  down  again  still  certain  that  no  one  would  show  up  but  fortunately  I  was  dead  wrong  inasmuch  as  not  only  Mama's  nieces  and  nephews  came  but  even  a  few  remaining  neighbors  as  well.  They  all  said  how  good  she  looked  and  just  to  make  conversation  I  said  yes  she  looked  even  better  than  when  she  was  alive  but  then  I  noticed  Mama  frown  and  I  knew  I'd  put  my  foot  into  my  mouth  adding  that  I  meant  because  she'd  failed  so  in  the  last  year.  Even  though  none  of  them  had  visited  her  during  that  time  they  all  said  ves  that  was  certainly  true  but  Mr.  [REDACTED]  had  done  sucha  good  job  and  I  agreed  while  Mr.  [REDACTED]  smiled  appreciatively  but  discreetly  in  the  background  and  I  didn't  want  to  make  another  gaffe  by  saying  that  I  wished  he'd  left  at  least  a  token  wrinkle  to  remember  her  by.  Just  then  one  of  the  neighbors  pushed  his  way  through  the  crowd  toward  me  and  said  how  sorry  he  was  and  before  I  could  even  thank  him  he  asked  me  if  I'd  seen  his  latest  article  on  a  local  eighteenth-century  silversmith  and  I  knew  I  was  in  for  it  whether  I  said  I  had  or  I  hadn't.  However  Mr.  [REDACTED]  saved  me  by  announcing  that  things  would  get  un-  der  way  if  we  would  please  sit  down  and  as  soon  as  we  did  he  introduced  the  first  act  of  half  a  dozen  chimps  along  with  their  various  props  including  six  unicycles  and  a  basketball.  Everyone  found  it  quite  entertaining  and  applaud-  ed  them  vigorously  as  Mr.  [REDACTED]  re-  turned  to  introduce  Miss  Lydietta  and  her  bareback  horse  act  which  was  very  good  despite  my  sisters'  catty  comments  about  Miss  Lydietta's  costume  being  too  brief  for  bereavement  even  though  it  was  black.  Following  her  act  Mr.  67,  [REDACTED]  introduced  a  dog  act  and  I  could  see  Mama  already  getting  uneasy  over  that  and  as  it  turned  out  the  dogs  were  Pekinese  which  Mama  particularly  dis-  liked  ever  since  one  jumped  up  and  nipped  her  on  the  seat.  Before  the  act  had  even  commenced  Mama  called  me  over  and  asked  to  please  dispense  with  the  dogs  although  she  would  especially  enjoy  an  aerial  act  but  when  I  men-  tioned  this  to  Mr.  [REDACTED]  he  apologized  profusely  saying  that  due  to  the  rela-  tively  low  ceiling  he'd  had  to  cut  the  high  wire  and  trapeze  despite  the  peo-  ple  all  clamoring  for  them  and  asked  if  acrobats  would  do  in  thepinch.  Even  though  I  knew  Mama  would  be  upset  I  said  they'd  do  fine  in  order  not  to  dis-  appoint  poor  Mr.  [REDACTED]  who  really  was  doing  his  best  under  trying  cir-  cumstances  and  Mama  actually  took  it  quite  well  though  she  surely  did  love  acts  like  the  Flying  Wallendas  best  of  all.  She  was  even  pleased  when  the  acro-  bats  were  followed  by  a  juggler  which  was  Mama's  third-favorite  circus  act  although  she  had  to  ask  me  to  turn  her  head  slightly  in  order  to  see  better.  After  the  clowns  which  I  thought  bor-  dered  on  the  sacrilegious  with  their  pantomimic  insinuations  came  the  main  attraction  consisting  of  the  cats  who  scared  the  living  daylights  out  of  the  mourners  in  the  first  three  or  four  rows  since  they  were  close  enough  to  feel  the  cats'  hot  breath.  It  certainly  was  Ma-  ma's  favorite  in  view  of  there  being  no  aerial  acts  and  she  was  quite  sorry  to  see  it  end  although  some  spoilsports  in  the  front  row  pointed  out  that  she  notonly  had  the  comfort  but  also  the  safety  of  her  coffin  while  they  were  completely  exposed  on  those  hard  folding  chairs.  Fortunately  Mama  didn't  hear  them  and  as  we  were  say-  ing  good  night  to  her  after  every-  one  else  had  left  she  told  me  to  compliment  Mr.  [REDACTED]  particu-  larly  on  the  lion  trainer  who  was  a  young  man  in  his  early  twenties.  While  we  stopped  for  a  nightcap  on  the  way  home  from  the  funeral  parlor  I  couldn't  help  but  think  as  the  others  were  watching  the  All-Star  Game  how  many  circuses  my  mother  had  brought  me  to  during  my  childhood  and  ado-  lescence  yet  when  she  had  grown  too  old  to  continue  going  by  herself  I  hadn't  taken  her  even  once  and  of  course  neither  of  my  sisters  would  take  her  despite  their  knowing  how  she  loved  it.  But  even  if  I  had  triedto  take  her  my  wife  would  never  have  allowed  it  because  obviously  when  Mama  needed  help  with  womanly  things  my  wife  would  have  had  to  do  them  and  cer-  " b"tainly  not  me  a  manwho  could  have  been  arrested  and  charged  with  crimes  that  are  seldom  even  named  except  in-  directly  under  thesobriquet  Unnatural  Acts.  So  it  seemed  rather  fitting  that  Mr.  [REDACTED]  an  almost  total  stranger  had  arranged  Mama's  last  circus  al-  though  it  made  me  feel  pretty  bad  that  I  had  left  unpaid  my  old  debt  to  her  and  I  wondered  if  I'd  paid  it  back  in  other  ways  but  I  forgot  about  it  by  the  time  we  got  home  and  all  went  straight  to  bed.  E  were  back  at  thefuneral  par-  lor  by  8:15  the  next  morning  in  order  to  be  at  the  church  by  9:00  and  while  we  were  waiting  for  the  nephews  and  nieces  to  show  up  and  allow  the  undertaker  to  organize  the  hierarchy  of  the  funeral  procession  my  two  sisters  began  to  argue  about  the  pearls  Mama  was  wearing.  Sister  #1  didn't  think  she  should  be  buried  with  them  and  Sis-  ter  #2  did  and  when  I  alsosaid  she  should  because  Papa  had  given  them  to  her  they  both  told  me  to  butt  out  and then  Mama  overhearing  the  argument  said  for  someone  to  just  try  and  get  them  away  from  her  and  I  had  to  gently  remind  her  that  this  was  really  none  of  her  business.  Then  #2  said  to  #1  well  if  you  feel  that  way  about  it  we'll  take  them  off  and  Mama  said  over  my  deadbody  you  will  but  everyone  ig-  nored  her  except  Mr.  [REDACTED]  who  said  po-  litely  but  firmly  that  he  had  his  ways  if  it  came  to  that.  #1  said  no  we'll  leave  them  on  because  that's  probably  how  Mama  would  want  it  after  all  and  Mama  said  you're  damn  right  so  Mr.  [REDACTED]  bowed  and  said  he  just  wanted  to  be  sure  of  the  family's  wishes  in  the  matter  because  it  would  be  so  much  easier  now  than  later.  He  ushered  us  all  outside  and  ar-  ranged  us  so  that  my  two  sisters  and  I  rode  in  the  limousine  directly  behind  the  hearse  and  two  of  the  cats  at  Mama's  request  rode  in  the  flower  car.  At  the  last  minute  however  the  priest  refused  to  let  them  into  the  church  even  though  their  handsome  young  trainer  had  them  on  leashes  and  know-ing  that  Mama  would  be  terribly  upset  I  slipped  them  in  through  a  side  door.  After  being  seated  I  noticed  that  the  altar  boys  looked  very  familiar  but  I  couldn't  quite  place  them  until  I  asked  my  wife  who  said  they  were  our  two  eldest  grandsons  and  I  suppose  the  problem  was  that  I  had  never  seen  them  in  cassocks  and  surplices  before  since  they  weren't  even  Catholics.  When  I  asked  them  about  it  later  they  both  said  they  wanted  to  do  something  nice  for  Great-Grandma  to  make  up  for  not  coming  to  see  her  for  the  past  year  so  they  bribedthe  regular  altar  boys  to  let  them  take  their  places  and  even  though  the  responses  had  been  switched  to  English  long  ago  they  faked  quite  creditable  Latin  right  up  to  the  end  whenwe  all  walked  out  behind  the  coffin.  As  we  drove  off  to  the  cemetery  I  heard  the  funeral  bell  toll  and  was  reminded  of  that  beautiful  line  from  Chaucer  part  of  which  Hemingway  stole  therfore  nevere  sende  to  knowe  for  whom  the  belle  tolleth  hit  tolleth  for  thee.  I  suddenly  realized  that  I  hadn't  shed  a  single  tear  for  Mama  or  myself  either  but  I  was  denied  even  that  comfort  then  as  we  were  already  at  the  cemetery  which  was  right  behind  the  church.  We  had  to  wait  in  the  cars  which  fortunately  were  air-conditioned  because  it  was  terribly  hot  while  the  coffin  and  flow-  ers  were  arranged  under  the  awning  and  even  after  we  didget  out  we  had  to  wait  forthe  priest  to  divest  himself  and  step  out  back.  When  he  finally  did  come  he  only  said  a  few  words  about  comingand  going  as  dust  and  then  came  over  to  my  sisters  and  me  saying  he  was  real  sorry  about  our  mother  and  I  said  thanks  Father  and  after  he  left  Sister  #2  said  how  comfort-  ing  his  words  had  been  and  #1  said  he  probably  would  have  said  it  was  a  sin  to  bury  her  with  the  pearls  if  he  had  known  about  them.  Before  that  controversy  could  flare  up  again  I  heard  a  tapping  from  inside  the  coffin  and  recalling  how  Mama  had  helped  me  learn  Morse  code  when  I  was  a  Boy  Scout  I  deciphered  her  mes-  sage  as  open  up  a  minute.  When  I  had  Mr.  [REDACTED]  lift  the  lid  she  asked  me  to  please  adjust  the  pillow  and  smooth  the  wrinkles  out  of  her  dress  so  that  she  would  look  her  best  when  she  met  her  Maker  and  of  course  it  was  the  least  I  could  do  for  her  as  we  finally  sent  her  out  of  this  world.  Then  I  kissed  her  goodbye  for  the  last  time  but  of  course  she  didn't  return  the  kiss  be-  cause  asI  said  before  my  mother  died  the  other  day."