 b"I WAS  sitting  in  my  brand-new  Butler  building,  surrounded  by  ~4-  steel  of  high  quality  folded  at  ninety-degree  angles.  The  only  thing  prettier  than  ladies  is  an  I-beam  paint-  ed  bright  yellow.  I  told  'em  I  wanted  a  big  door.  A  big  door  in  front  where  a  girl  could  hide  her  car  if  she  wanted  to  evade  the  gaze  of  her  husband  the  rat-poison  salesman.  You  ever  been  out  with  a  rat-poison  salesman?  They  are  fine  fellows  with  little  red  eyes.  I  was  playing  with  my  forty-three-  foot  overhead  travelling  crane  which  is  painted  bright  yellow.  I  was  practicing  knocking  over  the  stepladder  with  the  hook.  I  was  at  a  low  point.  I'd  been  thinking  about  bread,  colored  steel  bread,  all  kinds  of  colors  of  steel  bread-red  yellow  purple  green  brown  steel  bread-then  I  thought  no,  that's  not  it.  And  I'd  already  made  all  the  welded-steel  four-thousand-pound  arti-  chokes  the  world  could  accommodate  that  week,  and  they  wouldn't  let  me  drink  no  more,  only  a  little  Lone  Star  beer  now  and  then  which  I  don't  much  care  for.  And  my  new  Waylon  Jen-  nings  record  had  a  scratch  on  it,  went  crack  crack  crack  across  the  whole  width  ofSide  One.  It  was  the  kind  of  impasse  us  creative  people  reach  every  Thursday,  some  prefer  other  days.  So  I  figured  that  in  order  not  to  totally  waste  this  valuable  time  of  my  life,  I  had  better  get  on  the  stick  and  bust  Constanze  out  of  the  seraglio.  Chorus:  Oh  Constanze  oh  Constanze  What  you  doin'  in  that  se-rag-li-o?  I  been  poppin'  Darvon  and  mothballs  Poppin'  Darvon  and  mothballs  Ever  since  I  let  you  go.  Well,  I  motored  out  to  the  seraglio,  got  blindsided  on  the  Freeway  by  two  hundred  thousand  guys  trying  to  get  home  from  their  work  at  the  rat-poison  factories,  all  two  hundred  thousand  tape  decks  playin'  the  same  thing,  some  kind  of  roll-on-down-the-road  song  rollin'  rollin'  rollin'  rollin'  but  there  wasn't  just  a  hell  of  a  lot  of  actual  forward  motion  despite  this  hymn  to  possibility.  'The  seraglio  turned  out  to  be  a  Butler  building  too,  much  like  mine  only  vaster  of  course,  that  son  of  a  bitch.  I  spent  a  little  while  admiring  that  fine  red-painted  steel  that  you  can  put  the  pieces  to-  gether  of  out  of  a  catalogue  and  set  her  down  onyour  slab  and  be  barbecu-  ing  your  flank  steak  from  the  A.  &amp;  P.  by  five  o'clock  on  the  same  day.  The  Pasha  didn't  have  any  great  big  doors  in  his,  just  one  little  tee-ninesy  door  with  a  picture  of  an  unfed-recently  Doberman  pasted  on  it,  I  took  thatas  a  hint  and  I  thought  Constanze,  Con-  stanze,  how  could  you  be  so  dumb?  The  thing  is,  and  I  hate  to  admit  it,  Constanze's  a  little  dumb,  She's  not  so  dumb  asa  lady  I  once  knew  who  thought  the  Mark  of  Zorro  was  an  N,  but  she's  not  perfect.  You  tell  her  you  heard  via  the  jungle  drums  that  there's  a  vacancy  in  Willie  Jake  John-  son's  bed  and  her  eyes  will  cut  to  the  side  just  for  a  moment,  which  means  she's  thinking.  She's  not  conservative.  I'm  some  kind  of  an  artist,  but  I'm  conservative.  Mine  is  the  art  of  the  pos-  sible,  plus  two.  She,  on  the  contrary,  spent  many  years  as  a  talented  and  ele-  gant  country-music  groupie.  She  knows  things  I  do  not  know.  Happy  dust  is  nineteen  hundred  dollars  an  ounce  now,  I  hear  tell-she's  tasted  it,  I  haven't.  It's  a  small  thing,  but  irritat-  ing.  She's  dumb  in  what  she  knows,  if  you  follow  me.  Chorus:  Oh  Constanze  oh  Constanze  What  you  doin'  in  that  se-rag-li-o?  I  been  sleepin'  on  paper  towels  Sleepin'  on  paper  towels  and  Drinkin'  Sea  &amp;  Ski  Ever  since  I  let  you  go.  The  Pasha  is  a  [REDACTED]  dealer,  ac-  tually.  He  has  this  mysterious  power  over  people  and  events  which  is  called  ten  million  dollars  a  year,  gross.  About  the  only  thing  we  share  in  the  way  of  common  humanity  is  four  welded-steel  artichokes,  which  he  bought  right  from  the  studio,  which  is  where  he  saw  Con-  stanze.  The  artichoke  is  a  beautiful  form,  maybe  too  mannerly,  I  roughen  mine  up  some,  that's  where  the  inter-  est  is.  I  don't  even  mind  the  damn  [REDACTED],  as  a  form,  but  what  I  can't  stand  is  a  dealer.  In  anything.  I  know  that  this  is  a  small  picky-minded  dumb-  ass  prejudice,  but  it's  been  earned.  Anyhow  the  Pasha,  as  we  call  him,  noticed  that  Constanze  was  some  beau-  tiful,  in  fact  semi-incredible-looking,  with  black  hair.  He  turned  her  head,  as  used  to  be  said.  He'd  got  to  the  left  of  flank  steak,  and  he  employed  that.  If  we're  having  Neiman-Marcus  time,  I  can't  compete.  (In  all  honesty  I  have  " b"to  concede  that  he  is  fairly  handsome,  for  a  Pasha,  and  excels  in  a  number  of  expensive  sports.)  He  put  her  in  a  Butler  building  justto  mock  me  and  because  she's  not  so  dumb  she'd  be  caught  dead  in  a  big  fancy  layout  in  River  Oaks  or  somewhere.  She's  got  values.  What  I'm  trying  to  sug-  gest  is,  she's  in  a  delicate  relation  to  the  real.  I  can't  understand  this.  She  is  so  great.  When  we  go  partying  she  al-  ways  takes  care  to  dance  with  Bill  Cray's  four-year-old  girl,  who's  a  fool  for  dancing.  She  made  me  read  &quot;War  and  Peace,&quot;  which  struck  me  at  first  glance  as  terrible  thick.  She  renews  my  subscription  to  the  [REDACTED]  Observer  every  year.  She  contributes  regularly  to  the  United  Way  and  got  gassed  in  great  cities  a  time  or  two  while  express-  ingher  opinion  of  the  recent  war.  She's  kind  to  rat-poison  salesmen.  She's  afraid  of  the  dark.  She  took  care  of  me  that  time  I  had  my  little  psychotic  episode.  She  is  so  great.  Once  I  saw  her  slug  a  guy  in  a  supermarket  who  was  whacking  his  kid,  his  legal  right,  with  undue  enthusiasm.  The  really  dreadfulthought,  to  me,  is  that  her  real  might  be  the  real  one.  Well,  I  opened  the  door.  The  Do-  berman  came  at  me  raging  and  snarl-  ing  and  generally  carrying  on  in  the  way  he  felt  was  expected  of  him.  I  threw  him  a  fifty-five-pound  rein-  forced-concrete  porkchop  which  knocked  him  silly.  I  spoke  to  Con-  stanze.  We  used  to  walk  down  the  street  together  bumping  our  hipbones  together  in  joy,  before  God  and  ev-  erybody.  I  wanted  to  float  in  the  air  again  some  feeling  of  that.  It  didn't  work.  I'm  sorry.  But  I  guess,  as  the  architects  say,  there's  no  use  crying  over  spilt  marble.  She  will  undoubted-  ly  move  on  and  up  and  down  and  around  in  the  world,  New  York,  Chi-  cago,  and  Temple,  [REDACTED],  making  ev-  erything  considerably  better  than  it  was,  for  short  periods  of  time.  We  adven-  tured.  That's  not  bad.  Chorus:  Oh  Constanze  oh  Constanze  What  you  doin'  in  that  se-rag-li-o0?  How  I  miss  you  How  I  miss  you "