 b"SITTING  shivering  in  time,  Kaye Wayfaring  brooded.  The  peak  fall  day  decidedly  enhanced  her.  She  considered  impetus.  October  gleamed  as  it  chilled  the  town.  She  considered  the  approach  of  winter,  of  the  holiday  season,  Yuletide.  She  con-  sidered  the  picture.  Time  pressed.  &quot;Avenged,&quot;  a  costly  venture,  lingered  in  production.  There  they  all  were,  over  that  way  in  a  sunken  russet  glade,  occupied  in  setting  up  another  shot-for  Panavision,  for  art,  for  success  (a  decent  enough  pro-  gram).  A  stretch  of  morainal  plateau  in  the  Ramble  had  been  re-dressed,  enhanced.  From  a  promontory  just  across  the  gulf  from  the  rock  on  which  Kaye  sat  slouched,  a  cascade  had  been  installed.  Gaffers  exerted  themselves.  The  key  grip  smoked  a  Real,  pensive-  ly.  Idle  go-fers  exchanged  trade  news,  busily,  knowingly.  Kaye  decided  &quot;Avenged&quot;  might  just  turnout  if-as  always,  if-she  plunged,  obeying  a  charged  impulse.  Smiling,  smoking  raw  Luckies,  on  her  rock  high  in  the  Ramble,  overlooking  the  still,  leaf-cloaked  pond,  she  thought:  Plunge  like  the  Lorelei,  like  the  Rhine  maidens  (Wellgunde,  Woglinde,  Floss-  hilde,  and  Kaye),  like  Ondine,  like  Russalka.  If  only  she  plunged,  dart,  ing  down  into  &quot;Avenged.&quot;  Yet,  as  had  been  said  of  one  of  Houdini's  efforts,  &quot;Failure  means  a  drowning  death.&quot;  Kaye  Wayfaring,  one  valiant  trouper,  weighed  Candace,  her  role,  the  creature:  What  is  there  of  me  in  you,  you  extravagant,  driven  witch?  One  sure  way  to  play  Candace,  Kaye  knew,  was  the  same  way  she  had  phoned  in  the  last  few  perform-  ances.  '&quot;Wayfaring's  icy  panache!&quot;  Any  unit  publicist  could  (must,  lately,  it  appeared)  trumpet  that  quality-the  haughty,  bewildered,  vaguely  bruised  quality.  Kaye  had  no  more  use  for  it.  Where  in  the  Wayfaring  economy  was  it?  Kaye  Wayfaring  regrouped  her  forces,  seeking:  What  must  I  do?  What  must  I?  Am  I  played  out?  Two  words,  conjoined,  cheered  her:  &quot;much  vaunted.&quot;  If  you're  going  to  be  a  talking  woman,  be  a  triumphant  talking  wom-  an.  Be  purposeful,  be  generous,  be  all  you  dare.  Might  as  well  go  at  it  tooth  and  nail.  &quot;So  saying,  she  plunged  to  her  death,&quot;  Kaye  mumbled  distractedly.  Well,  what  was  the  key  to  it?  Above  all,  she  longed  to  become  precise.  &quot;Precise,&quot;  that  nagging  watch-  word.  What  didshe  mean  it  to  mean?    The  word  indicted  her,  assaulted  her,  time  and  time  again.  Things  written  about  her  terrified  her.  &quot;Wayfaring  understands  that  no  star  actress  wears  anybody  else's  old  hair,&quot;  her  director,  Orphrey  Whither,  had  assured  the  attendant  press.  &quot;Wayfaring  is  honest  in  the  most  arduous  way,  and  in  the  old,  perfect  manner.  She  understands,  as  Mrs.  Sid-  dons  and  Peg  Woffington  apparently  did,  that  honesty  is  the  mark  of  the  star,&quot;  an  enthusiast  had  scribbled  in  Filmopinion.  &quot;Wayfaring  understands  that  star-  dom  is  necessarily  vexing.  Stars  nev-  er  rest;  they  merely,  occasionally,  lounge,&quot;  Fashion  had  announced.  &quot;Wayfaring  keeps  her  interior  voy-  ages  to  herself.  Stardom  demands  secre-  cy,&quot;  some  wag  had  snapped,  pretend-  ing  an  intimacy.  H.Q.P.,  that  seasoned,  trusted  met-  ropolitan  arbiter  and  public  scold,  had  ventured  to  write  of  Kaye  Wayfar-  ing:  &quot;So  on,  so  forth:  vivid  and  par-  ticular.  No  actress  in  these  past  two  weary  decades  has  displayed  so  deft  a  form.  Wayfaring  does  deliver-  in  the  Sullavan-Stanwyck-Lombard-  Davis  tradition,  with  offhand,  odd  re-  semblances  to,  among  others,  Irene  Dunne,  4672616e6365s  Farmer,  and,  eerily,  Jeanne  Eagels.  Kaye  Wayfaring  is  something  of  a  navigator.  Impetus  is  her  concern.&quot;  Kaye  Wayfaring  sat  perplexed.  Others'  names  surrounded  hers:  they  threatened  suffocation.  All  Kaye  could  say  was  &quot;I'll  have  you  know  ..  .&quot;  Shading  her  fortunate  eyes,  she  con-  sidered  what  she  had  termed,  self-  mockingly,  &quot;the  plan&quot;-a  degree-by-  degree  personal  overhaul,  a  concerted  effort  to  improve  the  whole  works.  She  had  her  qualms:  Am  I  to  turn  out  finally  to  have  been  entirely  cosmetic?  Is  one  made  up  of  spare  parts?  What  about  this  equipoise?  She  brooded,  she   smoked,  she  considered  &quot;Avenged.&quot;  The  harried  unit  publicist's  release  for  the  first  day  of  shooting  had  in-  formed  the  industry:  &quot;Orphrey  W  hith-  er's  'Avenged,'  based  on  a  Diderot  tale  already  once  brought  to  the  screen  as  'Les  Dames  du  Bois  de  Boulogne'  (Robert  Bresson,  director,  [REDACTED],  1944)  and  starring  the  blazing  Kaye  Wayfaring,  two-time  Oscar  nominee  (for  'We  Are  Born,  We  Live,  We  Die'  and  for  'Way  Station'),  is  cer-  tain  to  provoke  controversy.  Such  is  the  valence  of  the  combined  powers  of  Orphrey  Whither,  poet-scripter  Jameson  O'Maurigan,  distinguished  British  National  Theatre  actor  Patrick  More,  and  Kaye  Wayfaring  that  a  new  meaning  is  imparted  on  the  screen  to  revenge,  another  dimension  is  re-  vealed  in  the  geometry  of  human  lust.  Never  beforehas  desire  so  bruised,  so  scalded  so  cruelly.&quot;  Good  God,  Kaye  Wayfaring  had  wondered,  what  on  earth  is  all  that  about?  That  passage  offered  no  key  to  it,  she  could  tell  them.  But  then,  to  demand  of  publicity  keys  ...  Publicity  was  hearsay.  Kaye  remembered  an  afternoon  in  the  heated,  sweated  term  of  her  ado-  lescence  when,  passing  through  lan-  guid  days  in  Clayton,  [REDACTED],  she  had  come  upon  herself  full  face  in  the  smudged  upstairs-bathroom  mirror  while  overhearing  a  conversation  on  the  veranda  below,  and  had  told  herself,  &quot;'They  pass  life  discussing  weather  and  traffic.  They  pass  life  by.  They  know  no  navigation.&quot;  She  had  mourned  them,  while  each  night  the  incessant,  troubled  snoring  sounded  on  as  groups  of  guests  lay  abed  and  Kaye  lay  wake-  ful  on  the  tar  roof  of  the  veranda,  clad  in  a  lavender-blue  silk  kimono  her  father  had  salvaged  from  the  ruins  of  imperial  4a6170616e;  smoking  Luckies,  questioning  the  starred  firmament,  not  sure  of  much,  but  certain  she  would  either  die  or  up  and  out-and  soon,  at  that,  either  way.  She'd  sit  up  smoking,  scented  with  4711,  and  braid  her  rust-  red  hair,  thinking  about  decisions  and  feeling  histrionic.  Fuchsia  hung  in  baskets,  and  bougainvillea  flourished  in  the  scuppernong  arbor.  Moths  and  mosquitoes  pestered.  The  citizens  of  Clayton  wound  their  watches.  ...  Kaye  halted  speculation.  Sufficient  unto  the  day,  she  assured  herself,  remem-  bering  one  of  her  good  mother's  better  maxims,  and  then  she  looked  out  over  the  Park,  which,  from  her  perch  there  on  the  highest  rock  in  the  Ramble,  gave  the  impression  of  Cythera  and,  with  the  boat  lake  stretching  out  to  the  south  and  west  in  a  serpentine  swirl,  of  voyages  thereto.  She  thought  of  " b"Ariadne.  Ariadne  on  Naxos.  Ariadne,  the  labyrinth  guide.  HE  very  Kaye  Wayfaring  sneezed.  As  if  summoned,  &quot;Avenged&quot;  's  director,  the  Olympian  Orphrey  Whither,  loomed,  like  Bac-  chus,  blocking  the  sun's  rays  in  the  west  and  the  entire  view  of  the  Dakota  Apartments  (where  Kaye  had  been  in-  stalled,  for  the  picture's  term,  in  a  gable).  Kaye  had  decided  long  since  that  whenever  she  considered  this  O.W.-  having  summoned  him  for  conversa-  tion  in  the  daytime,  or  yakking  on  the  telephone  with  him  on  a  restless  night-  she  considered  him  in  terms  of  cubits  rather  than  weights  and  measures  such  as  feet,  inches,  pounds,  stone,  metres,  or  kilos.  Orphrey  Whither  could  glow-  er;  so  he  did.  Kaye  counselled  her-  self:  Men  are  not  gods.  &quot;May  one  know  what  you're  up  to  this  time,  Miss  Wayfaring?&quot;  The  Corkonian  growl  sounded  like  some-  thing  from  a  cave  or  up  out  of  a  well,  or  like  oracular  sap  gushing  forth  from  some  Druidic  oak.  &quot;Giving  myself  a  piece  of  my  mind,  such  as  it  is,&quot;  the  Wayfaring  contralto  countered.  &quot;Actors!&quot;  &quot;I'm  an  actress.&quot;  &quot;Don't  quibble.&quot;  &quot;Get  lost.&quot;  &quot;How  dare  you!&quot;     &quot;Orphrey,  you  don't  begin  to  ter-  rify  me.&quot;  T  his  is  insupportable!&quot;  &quot;&quot;Not  in  good  light.&quot;  &quot;What  on  earth  can  you  mean?&quot;  &quot;I  mean  'Avenged,'  exactly.&quot;  &quot;Now,  look-&quot;  &quot;I've  been  looking.&quot;  &quot;I  could  replace  you;  you  realize  that.&quot;  &quot;You  might  be  quite  interesting  as  Candace,  wearing  Wayfaring's  old  hair.&quot;  Orphrey  Whither  turned  away.  He  pounded  down  the  scaffold  steps  lead-  ing  from  the  rock  to  the  glade.  The  Ramble's  shadows  lengthened.  Kaye  Wayfaring  considered  the  sweat  of  endeavor.  Phrases,  facts,  fan-  cies,  options.  Shadow  aspects,  libidinal  commitment.  Free-floating  anxiety.  Feeling  edgy  of  an  afternoon  in  fall.  Phase-specific  turmoil  states.  All  this  nervous  bravado.  An  open  declaration.  Passions.  Choices.  The  bottom  line.  Ariadne  occupied,  spinning  threads.  I'm  obviously  frantic,  she  advised  her-  self,  severely.  What  must  I  do?  HE  light  continued  failing.  She  suddenly,  faintly  remembered,  T  he  way  out  is  the  way  in.  Kaye  Wayfaring  set  out  to  explore  creation.  She  stalked  the  Ramble  like  some  predator,  all  the  while  consider-  ing  and  all  the  while,  as  well,  singing,  measuredly,  sotto  voce,  the  aria  &quot;Che  faro  senza  Euridice,&quot;  from  Gluck's  &quot;Orfeo  ed  Euridice&quot;-a  fa-  miliar  exercise.  She  fancied  it  best  sung,  for  her  intense  purposes,  in  English,  the  way  Kathleen  Ferrier  had  sung  it  on  records  and  the  very  way  Mawr-  dew  Czgowchwz,  ol-  trano,  had  sung  it  when-when  she  (Kaye)  had  been  a  drama  student  at  Yale  and  the  diva  had  ar-  rived  one  evening  in  October  to  givea  re-  cital  at  Woolsey  Hall.  Thus  Wayfaring,  ram-  bling,  sang:  What  is  life  to  me  without  thee  What  is  life  when  thou  art  dead  .  ..  Candace,  an  heiress,  hellbent  on  revenge.  The  impetus  of  her  re-  solve:  thwarted  pas-  sion.  Very  much  the  same  old  story,  Kaye  thought,  singing  a  variation:  W  hat  is  life  if  thou  desert  me  .  .  .  Candace  is  avenged  by  arranging  a  marriage.  A  good  one,  that,  thought  Kaye,  who  had  never  married.  She  had  loved,  lost,  loved,  managed,  loved,  survived,  loved,  and  stopped.  Yet  not  necessarily.  Kaye  thought  it  through,  and  asked  herself:  Who  wrote  the  very  first  torch  song?  W  hat  is  life  when  thou  art  dead.  The  Ramble's  tangled  byways  of-  fered  Kaye  opportunity  for  exercise  and  for  contemplation.  A  serviceable  glam-  our-that's  what  I've  hawked,  she  told  herself,  turning  grouchy,  feeling  bruised,  annoyed  at  the  way  branches  would  now  and  again  protrude,  like  pointing  fingers.  Candace  plots,  succeeds,  avenges,  all  to  no  good,  to  no  success.  &quot;Avenged,&quot;  a  remake.  So-so  what:  so  was  &quot;The  Letter.&quot;  If  I  don't  kill  you,  who  will?  Good  God,  where  did  that  one  bub-  ble  up  from:  That  tag  line  from  &quot;Way  Station,&quot;  the  film  for  which  she  had  won  her  second  Academy  nomi-  nation.  (Lost  it  that  year,  too,  to  an-  other,  lesser  actress.)  But  on:  press  on.  The  Ramble's  explosive  foliage  gave  little  solace.  W  hat  is  life  to  me  without  me.  I,  I,  me,  me,  I,  me,  I.  Oh,  dear  God,  not  just  now,  Kaye  prayed,  fend-  ing  off  as  best  she  could  a  waking,  " b"walking  nightmare  of  the  omnivorous  self.  Riders  on  horseback  passed  over  a  bridge  ahead.  Time  passed,  and  Kaye  Wayfaring  succeeded  briefly  at  her  task.  She  had  returned  to  &quot;Avenged,&quot;  deciding,  remembering,  along  the  winding  footpath.  She  then  suddenly  came  upon  some  twerp;  he'd  been  tossed  off  his  mount.  The  horse  looked  bewildered,  the  twerp  muddily  abashed.  &quot;Oh,  thanks  I'm  O.K.  Hey!  Aren't  you-&quot;  &quot;Once,  long  ago.&quot;  &quot;Excuse  [REDACTED];  &quot;That's  all  right.  Hope  you  feel  better  later.  Your  horse  is  expecting  you.  So  long,  now.&quot;  Kaye  considered  another,  more  sin-  ister  creature,  whom  she  had  labelled  &quot;the  morning  interloper.&quot;  Promptly  at  seven,  when  Miss  Wayfaring  had  checked  into  her  trailer  to  prepare  for  the  scene  in  which  Candace,  off  at  a  gallop  across  the  Sheep  Meadow,  plotted  and  replotted  her  weird,  obses-  sive  revenge  (in  heavy-lidded,  sloe-eyed  relentless  closeup,  looking  pummelled,  looking  dredged),  there  would  be  this  same  diminutive,  wiry  man-  some  old  moompix  mag-  nate's  nephew  or  cousin  n  or  collateral  offspring.  (Orphrey  was  aware  of  the  precise  connection;  he  considered  it  politic  to  allow  the  man  some  no-  tion  of  privileged  entry.)  Miss  Wayfaring  was  neither  amused  nor  flat-  tered.  The  intruder  resembled  a  wandering  dress  extra.  He  could  hardly  be  entertained  se-  riously,  cordially.  &quot;Keep  that  lurking  item  away  from  me,&quot;  the  star  had  commanded.  She  remembered  a  violent  summer  storm,  in  Clayton.  Thunder,  lightning,  wind,  and  rain-a  tempest.  She  had  sat  the  whole  show  out  on  the  veranda  roof.  And  then,  when  the  moon  came  up,  a  visi-  tor  had  approached  her.  Some  guest's  son  or  nephew  or  cousin-a  passably  winsome  boy.  &quot;Got  a  smoke?&quot;  &quot;They're  wet.&quot;  &quot;So  are  you.&quot;  &quot;Why  don't  yougo  take  a  walk.&quot; &quot;Why  don't  you.&quot;  &quot;I  live  here.&quot;  &quot;I  was  only  trying  to  be  friendly.&quot;  &quot;You  want  to  get  friendly,  go  find  a  dry  cigarette.&quot;  &quot;Who  told  you  you're  such  hot  stuff?&quot;  &quot;Look,  this  is  my  roof.  Get  lost.&quot;  The  boy  departed.  Kaye  ever  after  regretted  the  way  she  had  banished  the  guest  that  night  after  the  storm.  She  had  been  deliberately  and  stupidly  cruel.  Dissolve,  wipe.  A  new  instant,  an-  other  time.  Kaye  Wayfaring  seeking,  delving.  Wanting  out,  occasionally:  out  of  histrionic  guile.  Do  wash  the  ink  off  your  hands.  Don't  tryto  get  too  much  in.  There  is  weight,  and  there  is  clut-  ter:  distinguish  them,  distinguish  them.  The  way  out  is  the  way  in.  These  had  been  the  four  best  di-  rectives  offered  by  the  exacting  Miss  C.W.,  Kaye's  teacher  at  Yale.  Kaye,  in  improvisation,  would  talk  on  and  on:  &quot;I've  got  a  fat  trap,  that's  what.  I  should  shut  up,  I  know  I  should,  but  there  are  times  when  I  cannot  think  ofa  single  thing  not  to  say.&quot;  Miss  C.W.  would  remonstrate,  &quot;Do  wash  the  ink  off  your  hands.&quot;  Kaye  Wayfaring,  two-time  Oscar  nominee,  star  (who  never  wore  any-  body  else's  old  hair)  wondered.  How  long  would  the  luck  hold  out?  When  the  descent?  When  would  it  end?  How  fast,  how  soon?  A  trashy  inquisi-  tion:  she  decided  to  forbear.  Better  to  go  down  hailing  a  taxi  than  to  end  it  all  in  some  back  row  looking  at  Kaye  Wayfaring  (in  &quot;Avenged&quot;  ),  She  remembered  her  first  days  in  New  York  City.  She  had  been  invited  to  a  Village  party,  just  off  Seventh  Avenue,  just  south  of  Sheridan  Square.  She  had  accepted;  she  had  attended.  She  had  become  the  sud-  den,  spectacular  rage.  Just  then,  in  the  Ramble,  remembering,  she  fetched  it  back.  She  had  been  sitting  at  an  open  window,  high  up,  south  of  Sheridan  Square,  and  talking  to  herself.  &quot;I  am  a  fragile  vixen,  and  I  prefer  the  dawn  to  the  day&quot;  (a  ghastly  line  fromsome  Yale  vehicle).  &quot;I'm  naked,&quot;  she'd  called  out  the  window.  She  saw  out  and  she  saw  in.  They  were  strewn  about  the  floor,  the  rest,  all  victims,  all  snoring.  She  scribbled  a  note  on  the  back  of  some  stern  manifesto  and  sent  it  sailing,  fold-  ed  into  an  origami  air-  plane,  down  toward  Seventh  Avenue:  &quot;Two  Schlitz  and  a  pack  of  Luckies.  Bless  you,.  -Abandoned  in  13-G.&quot;  The  note  nev-  er  made  it  to  the  ave-  nue.  It  caught  a  cross-  wind,  then  a  tailwind,  and  flew  off  toward  the  [REDACTED].  She  laughed;  she  rose.  She  looked  about  the  room  and  she  saw  a  micro-  phone  on  a  throw  pil-  low.  The  cassette  re-  corder  sat  there  on  the  floor,  with  a  quantity  of  her  madness  spooled  on  it,  and  most  prob-  ably  vaster  quantities  of  the  others'.  She  re-  wound  the  cassette  and  sat  listening  tothe  playback.  Snorers  tossed  and  stirred  from  time  to  time.  She  listened  to      \n\n\n\n\n\n\n" b"the  section  where  someone  had  begged  them  all  to  join  hands  and  hold  their  breaths,  and  then  Ahusmmzmm.  She  lis-  tened  to  humming,  then  tosilence,  then  to  her  own  hysterical  laughter.  Then  to  slamming  doors.  (Somebody  exiting,  enraged.)  Then  she  decided  to  hear  no  more.  Kaye  decided  it  was  high  time  to  head  back,  all  told.  Enough  of  remi-  niscence.  From  such  deliberate  delv-  ing,  from  such  a  determined,  willing  plunge,  one  might  develop,  on  the  way  up  to  the  surface,  to  what  is  casu-  ally  termed  the  present,  a  severe  case  ofthe  bends.  Miss  Wayfaring  sallied  forth,  like  Mrs.  Millamant,  in  full  sail.  Here  she  comes  back,  she  advised  creation.  Creation,  entirely  pleased,  welcomed  her  at  sundown.  The  way  the  last  rays  available  from  the  sun  setting  in  the  west  splashed  her  in  vermillion-momentary  raiment,  all  filmable,  as  halos  briefly  are-caused  ber  to  gleam.  Her  flaring,  involved  radiance  matched  creation's  resources.  She  resembled  some  swan  gliding  along  on  a  millrace.  Her  arching  neck,  thrust  out  in  the  very  way  she  had  determined,  ages  ago,  it  ought  to  thrust,  signalled  the  very  Kaye  Way-  faring,  voyaging  to  Cythera  and  back.  She  planned  ahead.  She  had  always  specialized  in  fast,  fabulous  results,  achieved  while  sailing  through  the  lengths  of  fast,  fabulous  afternoons.  Suddenly  she  had  begun  to  question  them  all,  the  way  she  had  begun  to  question  the  difference,  for  example,  between  &quot;self-serving&quot;  (not  nice)  and  &quot;Help  yourself&quot;  (fine).  Was  she  as  good  as  could  be?  Why  did  she  suffer  so  from  ill-defined  predilective  dis-  orders?  When  would  she  make  up  her  mind-in  the  cold,  clear  light  of  dawn?  Why  the  gods  above  me,  who  must  be  in  the  know  .  ..  How  canI  get  along  now  .  ..  Others  find  peace  of  mind  in  pre-  tending  ...  W  hat  is  life  to  me  without  thee  ..  .  Had  it  all  been  said,  all  done?  Kaye  recalled  talking  back  to  one  self-styled  wise  old  fool  years  before  and  insisting,  &quot;It  may  have  all  been  said  before,  but  not  to  me.&quot;  The  old  fool  had  nodded  gravely.  Kaye  Wayfaring  broke  her  defiant,  thoroughbred  stride.  She  sauntered;  she  relaxed;  she  calmed  herself.  HAVING  plunged,  Miss  Wayfar-  ing  had  just  surfaced.  Back  on  the  set,  Orphrey  Whither  had  set  about  bullying  Patrick  More,  the  lead-  ing  man.  They  stepped  aside  as  gaffers adjusted  apparatus.  Miss  Wayfaring  crossed,  nodding,  to  her  trailer.  Mo-  ments  passed.  The  scene  between  Can-  dace  and  Hugh,  the  dupe,  was  set  to  roll  at  the  cascade.  Orphrey  Whither  seized  control.  &quot;Overture  and  begin-  ners!&quot;  he  bellowed.  Jameson  O'Maurigan  had  written  in  the  original  treatment:  &quot;Moments,  events  implode,  all  shaping  'Avenged.  Haunting  disembodied  voices  ofthe  eternal  New  York  night,  consoling  and  menacing,  counterpoint  Candace's  seizure.  They  are  all  matched  to  the  faces  of  nameless  lovers,  careless  as-  sassins,  on  which  collection,  from  shot  to  shot,  is  superimposed  the  furious  face  of  Kaye  Wayfaring,  as  Candace,  de-  termined  to  be  avenged-her  face  set  against  the  New  York  skyline.  Face  and  skyline:  twin  emblems  of  the  city  as  woman  and  as  dream.&quot;  " b" Playing  the  scene,  Kaye,  weaving,  sinuous,  reached  out.  She  whispered;  she  grasped;  she  leaped;  she  plunged  again.  She  became  an  avenger.  Orphrey  Whither,  holding  a  two-  shot,  quaked.  This  was  a  moment  he'd  dreamed  he  might  capture  on  film  one  day:  the  wail  of  the  city,  endlessly  dreaming  itself.  ...  \xe2\x80\x9cCut!\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;Will  that  do,  Mister  Whither?&quot;  &quot;That  will  suffice,  Miss  Wayfaring.  Take  ten.&quot;  &quot;I'll  take  a  dozen.  Will  that  do?&quot;  &quot;It  was  a  perfect  take,  and  what's  more  you  know  it  was,  Now  go  and  congratulate  yourself.&quot;  &quot;I  owe  it  all  to  my  director.&quot;  &quot;Get  lost.&quot;  &quot;I've  been  lost.&quot;  They  all  laughed;  they  all  took  ten.  Kaye  took  a  recess  in  her  trailer.  She  invited  Orphrey,  Jameson,  and  Patrick  More  in  for  cocktails  They  lounged  briefly,  telling  stories,  each  sipping  a  Wayfaring-concocted  Side-  car,  then  each  sipping  a  second.  They  toasted  one  another  and  their  &quot;Avenged.&quot;  Then  it  was  time  for  the  long  Wayfaring  solo  turn.  The  star  belted  back  a  straight  Hennessy  against  the  October  evening  chill.  She  exited,  and  strode  to  her  mark.  All  right,  Wayfaring,  she  ordered  herself.  Navigate.  She  knew  what  she  meant  to  do.  She  thought  she  just  might  at  that.  She  thought  she  might  just  as  well.  She  lit  one  of  her  necessary  Luckies,  took  a  puff,  and  stamped  it  out,  letting  go,  as  the  bell  rang  for  her  to  commence.  In  the  elaborate  tracking  sequence  set  to  roll,  Candace  was  to  cross  out  of  the  Ramble  and  over  the  boat-lake  bridge,  and  then,  after  a  cut  to  the  top  of  the  stone  staircase  leading  down  to  Bethesda  Fountain,  lope  at  a  pur-  posed,  anguished  pace  into  hell  -the  ruined  piazza.  One  shot  was  to  be  held  so  that  her  feet,  legs,  torso,  and  face  would  pass  in  vertical  review,  reveal-  ing  the  woman  hounded  down  by  tor-  ment,  driven  to  distraction  at  the  re-  flecting  pool  over  which  an  anonymous  angel,  whose  name,  Kaye  had  decided,  was  Victory,  stands  adamant  sentinel:  Candace  fleeing  the  camera,  her  ac-  cuser.  As  Kaye  Wayfaring  progressed,  light  poured  down  on  her  from  arc-  lamp  sources  above,  while  the  crane-  mounted  Panavision  cameras  rolled  slowly  alongside.  One  camera,  its  lens  set  to  zoom  when  required,  moved  backward  on  a  car  some  fair  distance  in  front  ofher.  Faces  of  onlookers  bobbed  back  and  forth  from  up  on  the  rocks,  floating  in  her  field  of  vision  like  odd  carnival  balloons.  It  was  a  long  and  terrifying  walk.  Freed  from  wordage,  no  longer  a  talk-  ing  woman  at  all,  she  became  gesture  unbound,  expanding,  toiling-the  very  Kaye  Wayfaring.  Jameson  O'Maurigan  scanned  the  action  from  the  rocks  above,  amazed,  as  the  actress,  glancing  from  side  to  side  time  and  again  (enacting  Candace  seeking  assistance  from  infernal  gods),  seemed  to  recognize  a  face,  a  presence  here  and  there  in  the  October  dusk.  &quot;What  a  show!  What's  she  up  to?&quot;  the  poet  blurted  out.  The  next  morn-  ing's  rushes  would  certainly  present  evidence  of  obsession.  What  an  oracu-  lar  performer  Kaye  Wayfaring  had  be-  come.  What  abandon;  what  calcula-  tion.  Kaye  Wayfaring,  voyager.  She'd  set  her  way;  now  she  progressed.  Replay-  ing  the  day,  the  week,  the  life,  she  al-  tered  expression  rapidly,  time  and  again.  She  was  certain  and  she  was  correct.  What  a  way  to  live  a  life.  Here  were  stairs:  no  halting  what-  ever.  Like  a  deer  trapped  in  head-  lights'  glare  on  a  country  road  at  night  in  the  shooting  season,  she,  startled,  surrendered,  She  looked  across  at  the  Dakota.  The  way  out  is  the  way  in.  She  stood  dead  still  for  a  moment  on  her  mark  at  thetop  of  the  stone  steps.  Orphrey  and  Victory  beckoned  from  below.  Blindly,  she  began  the  stumbling  descent.  Cameras  positioned  below  whirred.  Down  she  fled.  Her  face  became  the  face  of  Death's  own  head.  She  looked  again  across  toward  the  Dakota.  It  was  not  there.  She  hit  bottom.  Raising  her  arms  slowly,  Kaye  Wayfaring  flung  her  body  down  at  the  Bethesda  Fountain's  stone-rimmed  basin.  Then  she  leaned  forward,  looking  into  the  reflecting  pool.  Orphrey  Whither  shouted,  &quot;Cut!&quot;  Such  was  the  work  ofthat  day.  "