 b" IT  happened  in  the  late  and  forlorn   period  of  complete  disruption,  at  the  time  of  the  liquidation  of  our  business.  The  signboard  had  been  re-  moved  from  over  our  shop,  the  shut-  ters  were  halfway  down,  and  inside  the  shop  my  mother  was  conduct-  ing  an  unauthorized  trade  in  rem-  nants.  Adela,  our  servant  girl,  had  gone  to  [REDACTED],  and  it  was  said  that  the  boat  on  which  she  had  sailed  had  sunk  and  that  all  the  passengers  had  lost  their  lives.  We  were  unable  to  verify  this  rumor,  but  all  trace  of  the  girl  was  lost  and  we  neverheard  of  her  again.  A  new  age  began-empty,  sober,  and  joyless,  like  a  sheet  of  white  paper.  A  new  servant  girl,  Genya,  anemic,  pale,  and  boneless,  mooned  about  the  rooms.  When  one  patted  her  on  the  back,  she  wriggled,  stretched  like  a  snake,  or  purred  like  a  cat.  She  had  a  dull  white  complexion,  and  even  the  insides  of  her  eyelids  were  white.  She  was  so  absent-minded  that  she  some-  times  made  a  white  sauce  from  old  let-  ters  and  invoices:  it  was  sickly  and  in-  edible.  At  that  time,  my  father  was  defi- nitely  dead.  He  had  been  dying  a  num-  ber  of  times,  always  with  some  reser-  vations  that  forced  us  to  revise  our  attitude  toward  the  fact  of  his  death.  This  had  its  advantages.  By  dividing  his  death  into  installments,  Father  had  familiarized  us  with  his  demise.  We  became  gradually  indifferent  to  his  returns-each  one  shorter,  each  one  more  pitiful.  His  features  were  already  dispersed  throughout  the  room  in  which  he  had  lived,  and  were  sprouting  in  it,  creating  at  some  points  strange  knots  of  likeness  that  were  most  expressive.  The  wallpaper  began  in  certain  places  to  imitate  his  habitual  nervous  tic;  the  flower  designs  arranged  themselves  into  the  doleful  elements  of  his  smile,  sym-  metrical  as  the  fossilized  imprint  of  a  trilobite.  For  a  time,  we  gave  a  wide  berth  to  his  fur  coat  lined  with  polecat  skins.  The  fur  coat  breathed.  The  panic  of  small  animals  sewn  together  and  bit-  ing  into  one  another  passed  through  it  in  helpless  currents  and  lost  itself  in  the  folds  of  the  fur.  Putting  one's  ear  against  it,  one  could  hear  the  melodious  purring  unison  of  the  animals'  sleep.  In  this  well-tanned  form,  amid  the  faint  smell  of  polecat,  murder,  and  night-time  matings,  my  father  might  have  lasted  for  many  years.  But  he  did  not  last.  One  day,  Mother  returned  home  from  town  with  a  preoccupied  face.  &quot;Look,  Joseph,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;what  a  lucky  coincidence.  I  caught  him  on  the  stairs,  jumping  from  step  to  step-  and  she  lifted  a  handkerchief  that  cov-  ered  something  on  a  plate.  I  recog-  nized  him  at  once.  'The  resemblance  was  striking,  although  now  he  was  a  crabor  a  large  scorpion.  Mother  and  I  exchanged  looks:  in  spite  of  the  meta-  morphosis,  the  resemblance  was  in-  credible.  &quot;Is  he  alive?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Of  course.  I  can  hardly  hold  him,&quot;  Mother  said.  &quot;Shall  I  place  him  on  the  floor?&quot;  She  put  the  plate  down,  and,  lean-  ing  over  him,  we  observed  him  close-  ly,  There  was  a  hollow  place  be-  tween  his  numerous  curved  legs,  which  he  was  moving  slightly.  His  uplifted  pincers  and  feelers  seemed  to  be  lis-  tening.  I  tipped  the  plate,  and  Father  moved  cautiously  and  with  a  certain  hesitation  onto  the  floor.  Upon  touch-  ing  the  flat  surface  under  him,  he  gave  a  sudden  start  with  all  of  his  legs,  while  his  hard  arthropod  joints  made  a  clack-  ing  sound.  I  barred  his  way.  He  hesitated,  in-  vestigated  the  obstacle  with  his  feelers,  then  lifted  his  pincers  and  turned  aside.  We  let  him  run  in  his  cho-  sen  direction,  where  there  was  no  furniture  to  give  him  shelter.  Running  in  wavy  jerks  on  his  many  legs,  he  reached  the  wall  and,  before  we  could  stop  him,  ran  lightly  up  it,  not  pausing  anywhere.  I  shuddered  with  in-  stinctive  revulsion  as  I  watched  his  prog-  ress  up  the  wallpaper.  Meanwhile,  Father  reached  a  small  built-in  kitchen  cupboard,  hung  for  a  moment  on  its  edge,  testing  the  ter-  rain  with  his  pincers,  and  then  crawled  into  It.  He  was  discovering  the  apartment  afresh  from  the  point  of  view  of  a  crab;  evidently,  he  perceived  all  objects  by  his  sense  of  smell,  for,  in  spite  of  care-  " b'ful  checking,  I  could  not  find  on  him  any  organ  of  sight.  He  seemed  to  con-  sider  carefully  the  objects  he  encountered  in  his  path,  stopping  and  feeling  them  with  his  antennae,  then  embracing  them  with  his  pincers,  as  if  to  test  them  and  make  their  acquaint,  ance;  after  a  time,  he  left  them  and  continued  on  his  run,  pulling  his  ab-  domen  behind  him,  lifted  slightly  from  the  floor.  He  acted  the  same  way  with  the  pieces  of  bread  and  meat  that  we  threw  on  the  floor  for  him,  hoping  he  would  eat  them.  He  gave  them  a  perfunctory  exami-  nation  and  ran  on,  not  recognizing  that  they  were  edible.  Watching  these  patient  surveys  of  the  room,  one  could  assume  that  he  was  obstinately  and  indefatiga-  bly  looking  for  something.  From  time  to  time,  he  ran  to  a  corner  of  the  kitch-  en,  crept  under  a  barrel  of  water  that  was  leaking,  and,  upon  reaching  the  puddle,  seemed  to  drink.  Sometimes  he  disappeared  for  days  on  end.  He  seemed  to  manage  per-  fectly  well  without  food,  but  this  did  not  seem  to  affect  his  vitality.  With  mixed  feelings  of  shame  and  repug-  nance,  we  concealed  by  day  our  se-  cretfear  that  he  might  visit  us  in  bed  during  thenight.  But  this  never  oc-  curred,  although  in  the  daytime  he  would  wander  all  over  thefurniture.  He  particularly  liked  to  stay  in  the  spaces  between  the  wardrobes  and  the  wall.  We  could  not  discount  certain  mani-  festations  of  reason  and  even  of  a  sense  of  humor.  For  instance,  Father  never  failed  to  appear  in  the  dining  room  dur-  ing  mealtimes,  although  his  participation  in  them  was  purely  symbolic.  If  the  dining-room  door  was  by  chance  closed  during  dinner  and  he  had  been  left  in  the  next  room,  he  scratched  at  the  bot-  tom  of  the  door,  running  up  and  down  along  the  crack,  until  we  opened  it  for  him.  In  time,  he  learned  how  to  insert  his  pincers  and  legs  under  the  door,  and  after  some  elaborate  maneuvers  he  fi-  nally  succeeded  in  insinuating  his  body  through  it  sideways  into  the  dining  room.  This  seemed  to  give  him  pleas-  ure.  He  would  then  stop  under  the  table,  lying  quite  still,  his  abdomen  slightly  pulsating.  What  the  meaning  of  these  rhythmic  pulsations  was,  we  could  not  imagine.  They  seemed  obscene  and  malicious,  but  at  the  same  time  ex-  pressed  a  rather  gross  and  lustful  sat-  isfaction.  Our  dog,  Nimrod,  would  approach  him  slowly  and,  without  con-  viction,  sniff  at  him  cautiously,  sneeze,  and  turn  away  indifferently,  not  having  reached  any  conclusions.  Meanwhile,  the  demoralization  in  our  household  was  increasing.  Genya  slept  all  day  long,  her  slim  body  bone-  lessly  undulating  with  her  deep  breaths.  We  often  found  in  the  soup  reels  of  cotton,  which  she  had  thrown  in  un-  thinkingly  with  the  vegetables.  Our  shop  was  open  non-stop,  day  and  night.  A  continuous  sale  took  place  amid  com-  plicated  bargainings  and  discussions.  To  crown  it  all,  Uncle  Charles  came  to  stay.  He  was  strangely  depressed  and  si-  lent.  He  declared  with  a  sighthat  after  his  recent  unfortunate  experiences  he  had  decided  to  change  his  way  of  life  and  devote  himself  to  the  study  of  languages.  He  never  went  out  but  remained  locked  in  the  most  re-  mote  room-from  which  Genya  had  re-  moved  all  the  carpets  and  curtains,  as  shedid  not  approve  of  our  visitor.  There  he  spent  his  time,  reading  old  price  lists.  Several  times,  he  tried  vi-ciously  to  step  on  Father.  Scream-  ing  with  horror,  we  told  him  to  stop  it.  Afterward  he  only  smiled  wry-  ly  to  himself,  while  Father,  not  realiz-  ing  the  danger  he  had  been  in,  hung  around  and  studied  some  spots  on  the  floor.  My  father,  quick  and  mobile  as  long  as  he  was  on  his  feet,  shared  with  all  crustaceans  the  characteristic  that  when  turned  on  his  back  he  became  largely  immobile.  It  was  sad  and  pitiful  to  see  him  desperately  moving  all  his  limbs  and  rotating  helplessly  around  his  own  axis.  We  could  hardly  force  ourselves  to  look  at  the  conspicuous,  almost  shameless  mechanism  of  his  anatomy,  completely  exposed  under  the  bare  artic-  ulated  belly.  At  such  moments,  Uncle  Charles  could  hardly  restrain  himself  from  stamping  on  Father.  We  ran  to  his  rescue  with  some  object  at  hand,  which  he  caught  tightly  with  his  pincers,  quickly  regaining  his  normal  position;  then  at  once  he  started  a  lightning,  zig-  zag  run  at  double  speed,  as  if  wanting  to  obliterate  the  memory  of  his  unsight-  ly  fall.  I  MUST  force  myself  to  reporttruth-  fully  the  unbelievable  deed,  from  which  my  memory  recoils  even  now.  To  this  day  I  cannot  understand  how  we  became  the  conscious  perpetrators  ' b"&quot;  of  it.  A  strange  fatality  must  have  been  driving  us  to  it;  for  fate  does  not  evade  consciousness  or  will  but  engulfs  them  in  its  mechanism,  so  that  we  are  able  to  admit  and  accept,  as  in  a  hypnotic  trance,  things  that  under  nor-  mal  circumstances  would  fill  us  with  horror.  Shaken  badly,  I  asked  my  mother  in  despair,  again  and  again,  &quot;How  could  you  have  done  it?  If  it  were  Genya  who  had  done  it-but  you  yourself?&quot;  Mother  cried,  wrung  her  hands,  and  could  find  no  answer.  Had  she  thought  that  Father  would  be  bet-  ter  off?  Had  she  seen  in  thatact  the  only  solution  to  a  hopeless  situa-  tion,  or  did  she  do  it  out  of  incon-  ceivable  thoughtlessness  and  frivolity?  Fate  has  a  thousand  wiles  when  it  chooses  to  impose  on  us  its  incompre-  hensible  whims.  A  temporary  blackout,  a  moment  of  inattention  or  blind-  ness  is  enough  to  insinuate  an  act  be-  tween  the  Scylla  and  Charybdis  of  deci-  sion.  Afterward,  with  hindsight,  we  may  endlessly  ponder  that  act,  explain  our  motives,  try  to  discover  our  true  in-  tentions;  but  the  act  remains  irrevo-  cable.  When  Father  was  brought  in  on  a  dish,  we  came  to  our  senses  and  under-  stood  fully  what  had  happened.  He  lay  large  and  swollen  from  the  boiling,  pale  gray  and  jellified.  We  sat  in  silence,  dumbfounded.  Only  Uncle  Charles  lifted  his  fork  toward  the  dish,  but  at  once  he  put  it  down  uncertainly,  look-  ing  at  us  askance.  Mother  ordered  it  to  be  taken  to  the  sitting  room.  It  stood  there  afterward  on  a  table  covered  with  a  velvet  cloth,  next  to  the  album  of  family  photographs  and  a  musical  cigarette  box.  Avoided  by  us  all,  it  just  stood  there.  But  my  father's  earthly  wanderings  were  not  yet  at  an  end,  and  the  next  installment-the  extension  of  the  story  beyond  permissible  limits-is  the  most  painful  of  all,  Why  didn't  he  give  up,  why  didn't  he  admit  that  he  was  beaten  when  there  was  every  reason  to  do  so  and  when  even  fate  could  gono  farther  in  utterly  confounding  him?  After  sev-  eral  weeks  of  immobility  in  the  sitting  room,  he  somehow  rallied  and  seemed  to  be  slowly  recovering.  One  morning,  we  found  the  plate  empty.  One  leg  lay  on  the  edge  of  the  dish,  in  some  congealed  tomato  sauce  and  aspic  that  bore  the  traces  of  his  escape.  Al-  though  boiled  and  shedding  his  legs  on  the  way,  with  his  remaining  strength  he  had  dragged  himself  somewhere  to  begin  a  homeless  wandering,  and  we  never  saw  him  again. "