 b"JOE knew  from  his  reading  that  some  of  the  best  saints  had  worn  hair  shirts,  Catherine  of  Siena.  Ber-  nard  of  Clairvaux.  And  that  Thomas  a  Becket,  when  murdered  in  theca-  thedral,  had  been  wearing  one  that  was  crawling  with  vermin.  ('That,  though,  was  pushing  the  penitential  idea  too  far,  Joe  thought.)  He  had  heard  that  hair  shirts  were  still  being  worn,  even  in  this  country,  by  the  tough  contempla-  tive  orders-the  Carthusians,  the  T  rap-  pists.  But  he  had  never  seen  one  until  he  and  a  few  of  his  fellow-seminarians  were  invited  to  &quot;take  tea  or  beer&quot;  in  the  Rector's  study  one  evening,  it  be-  ing  the  policy  of  the  Rector,  a  stylish  gray  man,  new  at  the  job,  to  have  ev-  erybody  inat  least  once  during  the  academic  year.  The  hair  shirt-actually,  this  one  was  sleeveless,  not  a  shirt  but  a  vest  of  a  coarse  black-and-brown  fabric  that  Joe  later  learned  was  goat's  hair,  woven  like  chain  mail  or  a  Brillo  pad-  was  on  a  coat  hanger  hooked  to  an  arm  of  the  floor  lamp  by  the  Rector's  chair,  and  not  a  pleasant  sight.  It  was  there  to  be  asked  about,  Joe  thought,  and  for  that  reason  he  wouldn't  ask  about  it.  But  Cooney,  his  best  friend,  did.  &quot;My  cilicium-my  hair  shirt,&quot;  said  the  Rector.  &quot;Back  from  the  cleaner's.&quot;  Seeing  that  Hrdlicka  (a  sim-  ple  soul  from  the  Crookston  diocese)  be-  lieved  him,  the  Rector  said  to  Joe,  &quot;No,  I'm  afraid  an  old  friend  sent  it  to  me  as  a  joke&quot;  -as  if  Joe  (from  the  St.  Paul  diocese  and  pretty  sophisticated),  and  not  Hrdlicka,  needed  help,  and  for  this  Joe  had  to  admire  the  Rector.  THE  next  time  Joe  saw  the  hair  shirt,  three  months  lat-  er,  he  didn't  see  it  as  a  joke  at  all.  Joe  in  those  months,  during  and  after  the  annual  retreat-six  days  when  the  seminarians,  lec-  tured  by  an  outside  ex-  pert  in  the  field,  con-  sidered  the  state  of  their  souls-had  taken  a  big  step  up,  spiritually.  Oh,  he  still  had  a  long  way  to  go,  but  could  now  look  back  and  down,  like  a  man  climbing  a  mountain,  and  see  where  he'd  been.  He  could  see  himself  as  he'd  been  when  he  entered  the  seminary,  down  there  in  the  foot-  hills  of  sentimentality,  sound  asleep  and  dreaming  that  he  would  someday  do  great  things  for  God,  the  Church,  and  his  parishioners,  and  would  thus,  incidentally,  make  the  world  a  better  place.  He  could  see  himself  as  he'd  been  later  on,  on  the  lower  slopes  of  reality,  waking  up  and  fearing  that  he,  too,  would  poop  out  when  put  to  the  test,  as  others  had,  to  judge  by  what  was  happening  and  not  happening  in  parishes  he  knew  about,  to  say  noth-  ing  of  the  world.  And  now  he'd  changed  again-this  time  for  good,  he  believed.  He  had  grown  up.  Now  he  knew  what  he  was  doing,  or,  anyway,  what  he  was  trying  to  do-simply  the  hardest  job  in  the  world:  getting  to  know  God,  growing  more  like  God,  growing  in  holiness.  Holiness,  as  the  retreatmaster  had  said,  was  the  only  ambition  worthy  of  the  priest  and  there-  fore  of  candidates  for  the  priesthood.  Holiness  was  the  point  of  all  the  lives  of  the  saints,  the  point  where  all  those  glorious  lives  converged,  and  what  the  whole  world  was  crying  for.  And,  as  the  retreatmaster  had  said,  &quot;You  can't  give  what  you  haven't  got,  lads.&quot;  So  Joe  and  some  others,  in  quest  of  holiness,  had  gone  into  spiritual  train-  ing,  which  had  its  physical  side.  &quot;De-  tachment!&quot;  the  retreatmaster  had  cried,  and  they  gave  up  their  attachments  smokes,  sweets,snacks,  snooker,  and  handball  were  Joe's-and  haunted  the  chapel.  They  were  a  dozen  or  so  in  number,  kneeling  in  prayer  and  medi-  tation  by  the  hour,  some,  though,  sit-  ting  from  time  to  time-Mooney  and  Rooney,  for  example;  not  Joe,  though,  and  not  Cooney,  and  not  Hrdlicka.  But  the  way  of  the  world  is  also  the  way  of  the  seminary,  and  the  number  of  those  who  kept  vigil  in  the  chapel,  kneeling  or  sitting,  daily  diminished-  down  to  five  only  a  week  after  the  retreat.  The  five  of  them-Joe,  Cooney,  Hrdlicka,  Mooney,  and  Rooney-came  in  for  a  lot  of  headshaking  from  their  peers,  were  called  quietists,  &quot;de-  tachers,&quot;  and  so  on  (only  to  be  expected  if  you  knew  anything  about  the  history  of  the  Church,  the  intramu-  ral  dogfights  between  ascetics  and  timeserv-  ers),  and  were  also  a  source  of  concern  to  some  of  the  high-liv-  ing  faculty  and  the  Rector.  It  was  be-  lieved  that  the  Rector  enjoyed  the  favor  of  the  Archbishop  but  not  of  his  reverend  consult-  ors,  who  remembered  their  days  in  the  sem-  inary  and  were  un-  happy  about  the  way  the  place  was  being  run  now-as  a  club,  they  said.  So  the  ingredients  were  there,  at  the  seminary  and  close  by,  for  trouble-which  Joe  did  all  he  could  to  avoid.  He  counselled  the  members  of  the  little  band  (they  seemed  to  regard  him  as  their  spir-  itual  director)  to  use  their  Heaven-sent  op-  " b"portunities,  which  were  many,  to  turn  the  other  cheek.  And  he  gave  good  example  when-  everhe  could,  as  when  he  was  called  &quot;Holy  Joe&quot;  or  just  &quot;Holy.&quot;  (&quot;Hi,  Holy!&quot;  Dead-     ass  Boekenhoff  greeted  him  every  morning  in  the  lava-  torium,  and  Joe,  though  tempted  to  answer  some-  thing  else,  would  murmur  politely,  &quot;Good  morning,  George.&quot;)  But  not  all  mem-  bersof  the  little  band  did  so  well.  Mooney  andRoo-  ney,  who  were  both  sorry  lat-  er  but  cited  St.  Peter's  bad  example  in  the  Garden  of  Gethsemane  in  extenuation  of  themselves,  had  exchanged  sharp  words  and  shoves  with  their  persecutors.  Moo-  ney  and  Rooney  had  also  fallen  behind  in  their  stud-  ies,  as  had  Hrdlicka,  owing  to  the  hours  they  spent  in  the  chapel.  The  three  of  them  had  to  be  tutored  by  Joe  and  Cooney,  who  were  excellent  students,  and  Moo-  ney  and  Rooney  were  now  keeping  up.  Things  still  looked  bad  for  Hrdlicka  scho-  lastically-Ae,  however,  was  making  great  progress  spir-  itually.  There  were  times  in  the  chapel  when  Hrdlicka  ap-  peared  to  J  oe  to  be  out  of  this  world,  in  a  state  of  mystical  ecstasy,  reminding  Joe  of  an  old  pic-  ture  of  St.  Aloysius  with  halo,  lily,  scourge,  and  upturned  eyes.  And  then,  one  evening  early  in  De-  cember,  Hrdlicka  came  to  Joe's  room  and  said,  &quot;I'm  thinking  of  leaving  the  sem.&quot;  &quot;W  hat!&quot;  &quot;For  the  Trappists.&quot;  &quot;Oh,&quot;  said  Joe,  less  gratified  than  relieved.  &quot;That's  different,  Al.  That  makes  sense  in  your  case.  Well,  well.  The  Trappists.  Pretty  quiet  about  it,  weren't  you?&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  know  if  I'd  get  a  reply  when  I  wrote.  That's  why  I  didn't  say  anything.&quot;  Hrdlicka  handed  Joe  the  reply  from  the  Trappists,  and  Joe  read  it,  surprised  to  see  that  they  had  a  typewriter.  &quot;So  now  you  need  a  letter  of  recommenda-  tion  from  the  Rector,  Al.  Told  Aim  yet?&quot;  &quot;Not  yet,  Joe.  I  thought  I'd  tell  you  first.&quot;  This  pleased  Joe,  as  spiritual  director  of  the  little  band,  but,  mindful  of  high-  er  authority,  which  he  knew  from  his  reading  was  where  so  many  good  men  had  gone  wrong,  he  said,  &quot;Bet-  ter  tell  the  Rector,  Al.  Tell  him  right  away.&quot;  Hrdlicka  went  offto  do  this,  but  hesoon  returned-so  soon  that  Joe  assumed  the  Rector  was  out.  Then  he  saw  what  Hrdlicka  had  in  his  hand-  the  hair  shirt.  &quot;Joe,  he  saysI  should  think  it  over  for  two  weeks.  He'll  give  me  a  letter  of  recommendation  then,  if  I  haven't  changed  my  mind.  Says  in  the  mean-  time  I  can  wear  this.&quot;  Joe  felt  thehair  shirt,  as  he  hadn't  that  evening  in  the  Rector's  study,  first  with  his  fingers,  then  with  the  back  of  his  hand,  and  said,  &quot;Whew!&quot;  &quot;Joe,  I  think  the  Rector  figures  I  wear  it  I'll  change  my  mind.&quot;  &quot;You  won't,&quot;  said  Joe,  and  he  was  right.  A  few  days  before  Christmas,  on  a  Wednesday  afternoon  (Wednesday  afternoons  were  &quot;free&quot;  at  the  semi-  nary),  Hrdlickadeparted  for  the  Trap-  pists  with  a  letter  of  recommendation  from  the  Rector  and  also  with  the  hair  shirt-a  going-away  present  from  the  Rector.  Joe  accompanied  him  to  the  railroad  station.  Since  they  were  there  early,  Joe  having  hailed  a  cabwhile  they  were  waiting  fora  bus,  they  sat  down  and  talked.  Presently,  Joe  was  asking  Hrdlicka  for  the  hair  shirt!  He  said  there  would  be  God's  plenty  of  such  where  Hrdlicka  was  going.  Hrdlicka  was  willing  in  principle  to  oblige  Joe  but  not  in  fact,  because  he  was  wearing  the  shirt.  (Joe  had  thought  it  was  in  Hrdlicka's  suitcase.)  Joe  agreed  that  it  might  be  awkward  for  Hrdlicka  as  a  novice,  even  before  he  took  the  vow  of  silence,  to  ask  the  Trappists  to  mail  the  hair  shirt  to  a  friend,  but  nei-  ther  Joe  nor  Hrdlicka  liked  the  idea  of  just  giving  up.  Then  &quot;Hey!&quot;  cried  Joe,  and  told  Hrdlicka  his  plan.  They  went  to  the  men's  room,  into  adjoining  stalls,  where  they  undressed  from  the  waist  up,  and  Hrdlicka  passed  the  hair  shirt  over  the  top  of  the  partition  to  Joe.  That  was  how  Joe  got  the  hair  shirt.  The  only  bad  thing-something  " b"that  made  Joe  ashamed  of  himself  when  he  thought  of  Thomas  a  Beck-  et-was  that  he  had  suddenly  weak-  ened  in  the  stall,  and  had  emerged  from  it  not  wearing  the  hair  shirt,  ac-  cording  to  plan,  but  with  it  tucked  into  the  inside  pocket  of  his  overcoat,  andhad  then  deceived  the  simple  Hrd-  licka  by  squirming  and  saying,  &quot;Whew!&quot;  For  his  penance,  Joe  had  walked  back  to  the  seminary,  threemiles  against  a  north  wind,  ears  freezing  all  the  way,  save  for  a  minute  or  two  in  a  little  grocery  where  he  stopped  to  pur-  chase  a  box  of  Rinso.     WEARING  the  hair  shirt  was  like  coming  from  a  really  care-  less  barber  and  being  pricked  by  clip-  pings  on  a  hot  summer  day,  only  much  worse,  and  so  Joe,  being  human  and  not  a  masochist,  was  glad  when  he  could  take  the  thing  off.  This  he  did  at  night,  hand-washing  it  in  the  util-  ity  room-too  much  traffic  in  the  lava-  torium-and  leaving  it  to  dry  on  his  radiator,  over  a  towel,  as  he  would  a  woollen  sweater.  As  a  discomforter  of  the  flesh  and  a  strengthener  of  the  spirit,  the  hair  shirt  probably  did  the  job,  but  Joe  was  still  where  he'd  been  before  with  respect  to  growth  in  holiness-still  stuck  in  the  first  stage  of  his  hoped-for  spiritual  evolution,  in  the  purgative  &quot;way&quot;-  and  was  afraid  he'd  never  enter  the  contemplative  way,  not  to  mention  the  unitive.  The  little  appetizers  of  spiritual  delight  that  Joe  had  read  were  not  in-  frequently  vouchsafed  to  the  begin-  ner-though  they  were  not  to  be  mis-  taken  forthe  banquet  itself,  for  they  would  soon  be  withdrawn-were  not  vouchsafed  to  him.  He  wasn't  giving  up,  though.  He  was  still  in  there-in  the  chapel  for  hours  every  day,  trying,  praying.  Mooney  and  Rooney  were  also  do-  ing  hard  time  in  the  chapel,  but  they,  unlike  Joe  and  Cooney  (who  said,  however,  that  wearing  a  hair  shirt  was  taking  an  unfair  advantage,  like  wear-  ing  brass  knuckles),  were  openly  com-  plaining,  wanting  results-especially  Mooney.  &quot;Joe,  I'm  not  getting  anywhere,&quot;  he  would  say.  &quot;Let's  go  for  a  walk,  Chuck,&quot;  Joe  would  say.  " b"During  this  period  of  crisis  with  both  Mooney  and  Rooney  wavering,  Joe  often  took  one  or  both  of  them  for  a  walk  around  the  seminary  grounds.  When  it  was  really  too  cold  to  go  for  a  walk,  as  it  often  was  those  days  in  January,  Joe  would  say  that  they'd  be  better  for  it,  for  the  discomfort,  and  then  Mooney,  if  not  Rooney,  would  go  gladly.  Mooney  could  see  that  mortifi-  cation  was  not  an  end  in  itself  but  a  means  to  an  end,  a  smelting  process  that  got  rid  of  what  was  worst  and  left  what  was  best  in  a  man,  which  was  something  that  guys  much  brighter  than  Mooney,  guys  who  called  the  little  band  &quot;spiritual  athletes,&quot;  just  couldn't  see,  or  wouldn't.  Unfortu-  nately,  in  his  reading,  and  he  was  not  a  great  reader,  Mooney  had  a  taste  for  the  flashy-Blessed  Angela  of  Foligno  punishing  herself  by  drinking  the  water  in  which  she  had  washed  the  sores  of  a  leper,  St.  Ben  Joe  Labre  retrieving  the  lice  that  left  him  and  piously  putting  them  up  his  sleeve,  that  sort  of  thing-a  taste  that  Joe  did  not  share  (and  hoped  he  never  would,  however  much  he  grew  in  holiness).  &quot;Chuck,  your  eyes  are  bigger  than  your  stomach,&quot;  Joe  told  Mooney,  and  quot-  ed  Pope  Pius  XI:  &quot;  Sanctity  is  the  chief  and  most  important  endowment  of  the  Catholic  priest,  Chuck.  'With-  out  it  other  gifts  will  not  go  far;  with  it,  even  supposing  other  gifts  to  be  meagre  |  Joe's  italics],  the  priest  can  work  marvels.&quot;  &quot;  Joe  prescribed  more  prayer  and  renunciation  for  Mooney.  &quot;I  saw  a  Baby  Ruth  wrapper  in  your  wastebasket,  Chuck,&quot;  he  said.  In  this  manner,  his  words  vaporiz-  ing  in  the  icy  air,  Joe  spoke  to  Mooney,  and  sometimes  to  Rooney,  on  their  walks  around  the  seminary  grounds,  stopping  here  and  there  to  make  a  point.  His  favorite  place  to  stop  was  a  spot  from  which  they  could  view,  across  the  road,  a  billboard  advertisement  show-  ing  an  amiable  old  clergyman  (obvi-  ously  Protestant,  but  no  matter)  snif-  fing  the  air  as  he  passed  under  a  win-  dowsill  on  which  a  freshly  baked  pie  was  cooling.  &quot;There  you  are,&quot;  Joe  would  say.  &quot;''That's  how  most  people  see  the  clergy.  And  they're  right.&quot;  It  seemed  to  Joe  that  the  billboard,  taken  with  his  commentary-he  was  scathing  on  the  subject  of  the  beery  little  evenings  in  the  Rector's  study-  had  a  steadying  effect  on  the  wavering  Mooney,  but  after  the  first  couple  of  times  it  was  hard  for  Joe  to  get  Moo-  ney  to  stop  with  him  at  that  spot,  and  impossible  when  Rooney  was  along.  In  any  case,  the  billboard  was  soon  changed.  And  Rooney-saying,  &quot;I'm  sorry&quot;-resigned  from  the  little  band.  The  next  evening,  as  Joe  was  about  to  leave  his  room  fora  siege  in  the  chapel,  Mooney  dropped  in.  &quot;Joe,  I'm  not  cut  out  for  this,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  just  want  to  be  a  good  priest  and  maybe  work  with  the  poor.&quot;  &quot;Chuck,  you  can't  give  what  you  haven't  got-even  to  the  poor.&quot;  &quot;Yeah,  I  know,  Joe.&quot;  &quot;So  there  you  are,  Chuck,  And  Thomas  Aquinas  tells  us,  Chuck,  that  'to  fulfill  the  duties  of  Holy  Orders,  common  goodness  does  not  suffice;  but  excelling  goodness  is  required;  that  they  who  receive  Orders  and  are  thereby  higher  in  rank  than  the  people  may  also  be  higher  in  holiness.&quot;  &quot;  (KMay?  &gt;  &quot;He  means  'must'-you  know  how  cagey  he  is.&quot;  &quot;Yeah.  But  I'm  not  getting  any-  where,  Joe.&quot;  &quot;Chuck,  I'm  not  getting  anywhere.  And  Cooney-I  happen  to  know  he's  not  getting  anywhere.  So  there  you  are.&quot;  &quot;Whaddaya  mean,  'So  there  you  are'?  Joe,  I  wish  you  wouldn't  always  say  that.&quot;  &quot;We're  all  in  the  same  boat,  Chuck.  'That's  what  I  mean.&quot;  &quot;Joe,  maybe  we  don't  all  want  to  be  in  the  same  boat  with  you.  Ever  think  of  that?&quot;  &quot;Rooney,  you  mean?&quot;  &quot;I  mean  me,&quot;  said  Mooney,  and  turned  away.  &quot;I'm  sorry.&quot;  &quot;I'm  sorry,&quot;  said  Joe,  sounding  smug,  but  really  hurt.  And  so  the  little  band  was  down  to  two-if  that.  The  next  evening,  at  a  lecture  in  the  auditorium,  Joe  asked  during  the  question  period,  &quot;Father,  how  can  we  make  sanctity  as  attractive  as  sex  to  the  common  man?&quot;  (after  all,  the  speaker  had  quoted  L\xc3\xa9on  Bloy:  'There  is  but  one  sorrow-not  to  bea  saint),  and  Cooney,  who  was  sitting  beside  him,  laughed  right  along  with  the  rest.  EARLY  the  next  morning  Joe  was  summoned  to  the  Rector's  office,  where  the  tobacco  clouds  were  already  building  up,  churning  in  the  winter  sunlight,  and  the  Rector,  like  a  nice  old  gray  devil  in  his  element,  head  " b"smoking,  hand  smoking,  waved  Joe  to  a  chair.  &quot;Joe,  I  understand  you  have  my  hair  shirt.&quot;  Joe  weighed  the  Rector's  words  be-  fore  replying,  &quot;No,  Father.&quot;  The  Rector  smiled.  &quot;I'll  try  again.  Joe,  I  understand  you  have  the  hair  shirt  I  gave  Mr.  Hrdlicka.&quot;  Joe  was  weighing  the  Rector's  words  when  the  Rector  interrupted.  (\xe2\x80\x98Yes?,\xe2\x80\x99  &quot;Yes,  Father.&quot;  &quot;Well,  Joe,  I  want  it  back.&quot;  Joe  was  weighing  the  demand  in  the  light  of  his  circumstances.  &quot;Now,  Father?&quot;  &quot;You're  wearing  it,  Joe?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  Father.&quot;  &quot;Tomorrow  morning  then.  Same  time,  same  place.&quot;  And  the  Rector  smiled,  ending  the  interview.  Joe  rose  and  left,  thinking  how  well  he'd  handled  himself  and  that  the  Rec-  tor  had  probably  expected  his  owner-  ship  of  the  hair  shirt,  his  right  to  im-  pound  it,  to  be  disputed.  This  was  far  from  Joe's  mind,  armed  as  it  was  by  his  reading  with  examples  of  heroic  obedience-the  example,  say,  of  St.  John  of  the  Cross  (among  mystics  one  of  the  all-time  greats,  perhaps  No.  1),  who  had  been  jailed  by  his  superiors  and  fed  stinking  fish. That  he  had  been  summoned  to  the  Rec-  tor's  office  was  widely  known,  Joe  discovered  between  classes  that  morning,  though  he'd  told  nobody  but  Coo-  ney,  and  he'd  asked  that  Cooney  keep  to  himself  what  happened  at  the  interview.,  Evi-  dently  Cooney  did,  forthe  questions  that  Joe  fielded  throughout  the  day,  though  prob-  ing,  were  uninformed.  Whether  he'd  been  called  to  Rome  to  de-  fend  himself-that  sort  of  thing-and  the  usual  half-serious  references  to  Manichaeism,  Jan-  senism,  &quot;detachismus,&quot; and  so  on,.  The  hair  shirt  was  mentioned,  but  not  significantly.  As  Joe  washed  it  that  evening,  he  spec-  ulated  on  the  possibility  of  keeping  the  hand-  over  to  the  Rector  a  secret  from  everybody else  (except  Cooney),  at  least  until  such  time  as  the  event  would  have  lost  its  news  value.  Wouldn't  that-keeping  it  a  secret-be  best  for  all  concerned?  &quot;Hair  shirt?  Oh,  I  no  longer  wear  it,  and  haven't  for  some  months  now.  I'm  just  like  you  now,  Deadass.&quot;  The  next  morning,  at  the  same  time,  same  place,  Joe  dutifully  ap-  peared  with  the  hair  shirt  (concealed  in  a  paper  bag)  and  then  learned  that  the  Rector  had  suffered  a  heart  attack  in  the  night  and  was  in  the  hospital.  Saying  a  prayer  for  the  Rector,  Joe  returned  to  his  room  with  the  hair  shirt  and,  leaving  it  in  the  bag,  put  it  in  the  bottom  drawer  of  his  dress-  er,  where  he'd  once  kept  some  of  his  attachments-peanuts,  popcorn,  candy,  cigars,  cigarettes-and  then  he  visited  the  chapel,  as  was  his  prac-  tice  nowadays  before  going  to  his  first  class.  Between  classes  he  read  the  notice  on  the  bulletin  board  stating  that  prayers  were  requested  forthe  Rector,  who,  if  all  went  well,  would  be  back  at  the  seminary  &quot;soon&quot;-which  Joe  interpreted  to  mean  weeks.  Saying  an-  other  prayer  for  the  Rector,  Joedashed  up  to  his  room,  and  shortly  thereafter  dashed  down  to  his  next  class,  itching  again,  wearing  the  hair  shirt.  Early  that  evening  the  news  broke-  Cooney  told  Mooney,  and  Mooney  broke  it-that  the  Rector  had  on  the  morning  of  the  night  he  was  stricken  ordered  Joe,  under  pain  of  sin,  to  for-  swear  and  deliver  up  the  hair  shirt.  This  was  substantially  true,  but  Joe  toned  it  down  for  his  visitors.  He  had  a  number  of  them  later  that  evening  after  the  news  broke-the  last  being  Mooney,  who  had  been  avoiding  Joe  ever  since  he  apostatized  from  the  little  band.  &quot;Oh,  to  think  that  the  Rector  want-  ed  you  to  give  it  back!&quot;  Mooney  said.  &quot;And  now!  Joe,  are  you  wearing  it  now?&quot;  &quot;For  the  time  being,  yes.&quot;  &quot;Keep  it  on,  Joe.  Don't  take  it  off.&quot;  &quot;At  night  I  have  to.  I  have  to  wash  it.&quot;  &quot;Joe,  I  wouldn't.&quot;  &quot;I  would,  Chuck.&quot;  &quot;But  Joe-for  the  Rector!&quot;  Earlier  visitors  had  made  it  clear  to  Joe  that  they  were  no  less  wary  than  beforeof  his  hard-core  spirituality  but  now  considered  him  deserving  of  some  sympathy,  which  Joe  had  assumed  was  all  anybody  had  in  mind  where  he  and  the  hair  shirt  were  concerned,  when  along  comes  Mooney  with  this  crazy-what  if  it  spread?  -this  supersti-  tious  idea  that  the  Rector's  life  might  de-  pend  on  Joe's  wearing  the  hair  shirt.  &quot;So  I  wouldn't,  Joe.  Oh,  to  think!&quot;  &quot;Don't,&quot;  said  Joe,  silencing  Mooney,  and  went  down  to  the  chapel,  where,  fora  change,  he  was  not  alone.  Evidently  Coo-  ney  was  still  suffering  from  &quot;bursitis  of  both  knees,&quot;  for  he  was  ab-  sent,  but  there  were  quite  a  few  others  on     hand  that  evening-a  dozen  or  so,  among  them  Rooney  and,  pres-  ently,  Mooney.  JOE  was  the  last  man  to  leave  the  chap-  el  that  evening,  the  only  one  to  stay  very  long.  So  it  seemed  that  the  others  had  only  dropped  in  to  say  a  few  prayers  for  the  \n\n\n" b"Rector,  and  that  what  Joe  had  feared,  after  hearing  what  he  had  from  Mooney,  that  clunkhead-that  the  little  holiness  move-  ment  had  revived  and  was  drawing  its  strength  from  his  not  taking  off  the  hair  shirt-was  not  the  case,  thank  God,  Joe  washed  it  that  night,  as  he  would  have  done  in  any  event,  and  when  asked  the  next  morning  by  Moo-  ney  if  he'd  slept  in  it  said,  &quot;No,&quot;  curtly.  And  likewise  when  asked  the  following  morn-  ing,  The  next  morning  he  wasn't  asked.  &quot;I  hear  the  Rector's  out  of  danger,&quot;  Moo-  ney  said.  &quot;Thank  God,&quot;  said  Joe.  The  days  passed,  and  as  far  as  Joe  could  tell  nobody  but  Moo-  ney,  who  was  now  act-  ing  as  if  he  hadn't,  had  ever  expected  him  to  wear  the  hair  shirt  constantly  for  the  Rector's  sake.  In  fact,  the  hair  shirt  wasn't  mentioned  to  Joe  thesedays,  even  lightly,  which  was  odd.  And  there  was  something  else  odd-easy  to  detect,  hard  to  define.  Joe  noticed  that  certain  guys  never  really  looked  at  him-they  looked  to  one  side  of  him,  or  over  his  head,  or  down,  but  never  in  the  eye.  He  went  to  see  Cooney  about  it.  &quot;Did  somebody  say  something?&quot;  Cooney  asked.  &quot;No.  I  wish  somebody  would.&quot;  &quot;Don't  let  it  worry  you.&quot;  &quot;'Then  there  is  something!&quot;  cried  Joe.  Even  his  best  friend  wouldn't  look  him  in  the  eye!  &quot;Joe,  there  are  those  .  ..  (\xe2\x80\x98Yes?),  &quot;Who  have  never  epproved  of  you  for  wearing  the  hair  shirt-for  reasons  you  already  know.  'Singularity'  and  so  on.&quot;  'Yes?  Yes?&quot;  &quot;And  now  there  are  those-they're  the  same  ones,  plus  quite  a  few  more-  who  disapprove  of  you  for  wearing  it.  Am  I  right  in  thinking  you're  wearing  it  now?&quot;  Joe  nodded,  &quot;Well,  the  idea  these  guys  have  is  that  you  were  ordered  not  to  wear  it,  and  are  therefore  in  flagrante  delicto.&quot;  &quot;Not  so!&quot;  cried  Joe,  and  gave  Cooney  a  true  account  of  the  inter-  view,  as  he  had  before,  and  again  spoke  of  his  attempt  to  comply  with  the  Rector's  demand-'&quot;request,&quot;  he  said,  was  probably  a  better  word  for  it.  &quot;Look,  Joe,&quot;  Cooney  said.  &quot;As  far  as  I'm  concerned,  you  can  go  right  on  wearing  the  hair  shirt,  although  I  still  say  it's  like  wearing  brass  knuckles,  But  the  idea  these  guys  have-the  reasonyou're  more  unpop-  ular  these  days,  and  of  course  the  heart  attack,  coming  when  it  did,  is  also  a  factor  in  that-is  that  you're  going  against  the  Rector's  intention.&quot;  Joe  thought  about  this  for  a  mo-  ment.&quot;I  see,&quot;  he  said,  and  went  away  to  think  some  more.  As  it  happened,  he  had  to  think  for  three  days  before  he  arrived  at  a  firm  decision.  Then  he  had  to  wait  for  Wednesday  afternoon  to  come,  and  when  it  did  he  took  a  bus  downtown.  He  was  carrying  the  hair  shirt  in  the  paper  bag.  At  the  hospital  he  found  the  Rector  in  a  private  room,  in  bed  with  a  paperback.  a  &quot;Ah,  what's  this?&quot;  the  Rector  said.  Joe,  afraid  the  Rector  was  referring  to  the  bag  and  was  under  the  impres-  sion  that  it  contained  a  gift  for  him,  said,  &quot;No,  Father,&quot;  which  made  sense  only  in  the  context  of  Joe's  thoughts.  &quot;I  was  just  passing  by,  Father.&quot;  &quot;Were  you  now?&quot;  replied  the  Rec-  tor  in  a  marvelling  tone,  and  looked  Joe  in  the  eye.  &quot;As  a  matter  of  fact,  Father,  I  wasn't.&quot;  The  Rector  smiled,  and  Joe  felt  foolish  but  better.  &quot;Sit  down,  Joe.&quot;  Joe  managed  to  sit  down.  &quot;How've  you  been,  Father?&quot;  Oh,  great!  &quot;I  mean,  how  ere  you,  Father?&quot;  &quot;I'm  better,  I'm  told.&quot;  You're  grayer,  Joe  thought,  and,  the  way  he'd  been  going,  did  well  not  to  say  so.  &quot;What's  on  your  mind,  Joe?&quot;  Joe  looked  down  at  the  floor,  where  he'd  put  the  bag  because  it  called  at-  tention  to  itself  in  his  hands,  and  then  back  at  the  Rector.  &quot;Remember,  Fa-  ther,  I  was  supposed  to  bring  you  the  hair  shirt?&quot;  &quot;Now  that  you  mention  it,  Joe,  yes.&quot;  &quot;Father,  I  want  you  to  know  I  did  bring  it  to  your  office  that  morning,  but  you  .  .  .&quot;&quot;  Joe  felt  foolish  again.  &quot;I  didn't  keep  the  appointment,&quot;  the  Rector  said,  and  smiled.  &quot;Not  your  fault,  Father.&quot;  As  if  that  " b"needed  saying.  Joe  reached  down  for  the  bag  and  stood  up  with  it.  &quot;Father,  the  hair  shirt's  inside  this  bag,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;And  it's  nice  and  clean.  I  washed  it.&quot;  &quot;Not  now,  Joe.  Not  here.  When  I'm  back.  Soon  enough  then.&quot;  So  Joe,  about  to  place  the  bagon  the  bed  at  the  Rector's  feet,  held  on  to  it.  He  hadn't  anticipated  this  development,  but  it  didn'tdivert  him.  &quot;Father,  I  have  to  ask  you  a  question,&quot;  he  said,  and  gota  funny  look  from  the  Rector.  &quot;It's  about  your  intention,  as  to  the  hair  shirt.&quot;  &quot;I  thought  you  should  stop  wearing  it,  Joe,  or  I  wouldn't  have  asked  for  it.  But  in  the  circumstances-you've  been  wearing  it,  have  you?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  Father.&quot;  &quot;And  you  want  me  to  say  whether  you  were  right  or  wrong  to  do  so?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  Father.&quot;  &quot;Well,  I  can't,  in  the  circumstances,  Joe.  You're  the  one  to  say.  I  will  say  I  was  worried  about  you,  Joe.  That  ques-  tion  of  yours  at  the  lecture!&quot;  The  Rec-  tor  shook  his  head  at  the  thought  of  it.  &quot;After  that,  I  hed  to  ask  for  the  hair  shirt.  But  now  I  don't  know.  Things  look  different  to  me  now,  here.  And  you  do,  Joe.  So  I'd  say  do  as  you  think  best  about  the  hair  shirt,  Wear  it,  or  don't.  I  trust  you,  Now  I'm  tired.  You'd  better  leave.&quot;  Joe  asked  forthe  Rector's  blessing,  knelt  for  it,  and  left  with  it,  carrying  the  hair  shirt  in  the  paper  bag.  N  the  following  days-the  Rector  had  died  that  night-Joe  sensed  that  he  was  being  blamed,  as  a  puppy  might  be  blamed  for  causing  an  acci-  dent  in  which  it  had  escaped  in  jury  and  someone  had  died,  and  that  more  guys  than  before  liked  the  sight  of  him  less.  &quot;When,&quot;  he  imagined  them  saying,  &quot;when  will  he  repent  and  take  off  the  hair  shirt?&quot;  For  he  hadn't  said  any-  thing  to  anybody  about  his  visit  to  the  hospital,  and  would  not.  Mooney,  one  of  the  few  who  still  spoke  to  him,  asked,  &quot;Are  you  getting  anywhere,  Joe?&quot;  &quot;Can't  sayI  am,  Chuck.&quot;  &quot;Still  wearing  it?&quot;  &quot;Yes&quot;,  &quot;But  not  at  night?&quot;  &quot;No.&quot;  &quot;That  could  be  why  you're  not  get-  ting  anywhere,  Joe.  Ever  think  of  that?&quot;  &quot;Yes.&quot;  Yes,  Joe  had  thought  of  that-oh,  not  as  a  cure,  as  Mooney  meant,  but  as  a  pointer  to  the  nature  of  his  failure.  He  was,  by  the  standards  of  saints,  too  fastidious,  he  knew-not  enough  of  a  slob.  Why,  for  instance,  should  guys  going  about  the  corridors  in  their  bare  feet,  or  in  their  socks,  which  was  some-  how  worse-why  should  this  bother  him  so  much?  He  kept  his  slippers  handy  by  his  bed  and  wore  them  or  his  shoes,  preferably  his  shoes,  when  he  went  into  the  corridors.  Yes,  that  could  be  his  trouble-in  a  sense,  the  reason  for  his  failure.  Even  if  he  did  wear  the  hair  shirt  day  and  night-  and  he  could-what  about  his  feelings  for  others,  his  fellow-men,  who,  next  to  God,  should  be  his  first  concern?  The  seminary  was  a  community,  and  a  tight  little  one  at  that,  and  just  wasn't  the  place  for  all-out  mysticism,  for  growth  in  holiness  beyond  a  certain  point-a  low  point  by  the  standards  of  saints.  No  place  he'd  ever  be,  no  par-  ish,  would  be  the  place  for  that.  And  just  this,  for  him,  knowing  what  he  did  about  the  life  of  the  spirit  (not  much  but  something)  and  not  being  able  to  give  himself  to  it-wouldn't  this  be  a  hair  shirt  of  sorts?  The  Rec-  tor  could  have  been  wearing  this  kind  for  years  day  and  night-probably  all  old  priests  did-and  Joe,  in  feeling  its  prickliness  already,  before  he  was  even  ordained,  was  ahead  of  his  time,  he  thought.  Maybe  it  had  been  foolish  to  hope  that  he  could  get  in  touch  with  God  directly,  to  think  that  he  could  bypass  humanity,  but  he  wasn't  giving  up  yet.  No,  he  would  continue  to  wear  the  hair  shirt  (unless  asked  not  to  by  the  new  Rector,  whoever  he  might  be),  would  wear  it  during  the  day  and  wash  it  at  night,  until  it  wore  out.  If,  by  then,  he  was  still  not  getting  any-  where,  he  would  simply  make  do  with  the  hair  shirt  that  so  many  were  wear-  ing.  "