 b"TEN  years  ago  the  Church  bought  this  farm  at  public  auction.  They  bought  a  thousand  hogs,  and  in  cooperation  with  the  state  they  brought  convicts  from  the  prisons  to  work  the  farm  as  a  halfway  house-hogs  to  keep  the  convicts  busy,  convicts  to  keep  the  hogs.  And  the  Church  called  this  farm  Saint  Augustine's  Farm.  The  convicts  made  miserable  hog  farmers.  Hogs  sick-  ened.  Hogs  died.  Hogs  were  stolen.  The  Church  finally  lost  heart  and  abandoned  Saint  Augustine's  Farm.  They  gave  it  to  Father  Prior  and  the  monks  at  the  Priory  as  atax  writeoff.  The  celibate  Father  Prior  accepted  his  gift  from  the  ministers  and  deacons  of  the  low  church  as  a  challenge,  as  a  test  of  his  greater  faith.  He  replaced  the  herd,  and  he  sent  thirty  of  his  strongest  brethren  to  live  on  the  land-Saint  Augustine's  is  only  a  few  miles  through  the  hills  from  the  Priory-praying  that  monks  might  raise  hogs  where  convicts  could  not.  But  the  monks  could  not,  and  during  a  cold  winter  rain  on  a  February  day  seven  years  ago,  the  farm  was  abandoned  a  second  time.  There  has  been  no  rain  on  Saint  Augustine's  Farm  for  seven  years  now-not  since  that  February  day  when  Father  Prior  l  Ali     came  and  fetched  his  brethren  home  to  the  Priory  in  shame.  For  seven  years  there  has  been  nothing  but  endless  sun.  Of  the  thirty  monks  sent  to  Saint  Augustine's  by  Father  Prior  seven  years  ago,  only  Jonathan  has  returned  to  the  farm.  We  came  here  with  Jonathan,  Father  Prior's  rebellious  right  hand-  Jonathan  the  prophet,  with  his  vision  of  resurrection  for  Saint  Augustine's  Farm,  leading  seven  nameless  novitiates  out  from  the  Priory  gates.  I  am  one  of  the  seven;  I  speak  forthe  seven.  We  had  never  seen  Saint  Augus-  tine's  Farm  before.  In  fact,  we  had  not  been  outside  the  Priory  grounds  since  our  arrival  there  as  postulants  We  knew  nothing  of  the  endless  sun.  We  simply  believed  in  Jonathan  and  we  followed  him,  away  from  our  snug  Priory  cells,  out  from  under  the  shade  of  Father  Prior's  gowns,  rejecting  celi-  bacy  and  the  easy  sanction  of  life  vows  to  find  a  new  life  on  the  land.  Six  months  have  passed  since  we  bought  the  farm  from  Father  Prior,  and  now  we,  too,  are  about  to  abandon  it.  HE  roof  and  the  sides  of  our  barn  lie  folded  at  ground  level.  Only  the  barn  basement  is  in  use.  The  farm-house,  Saint  Augustine's  House,  sits  artlessly  close  to  the  road,  a  conglom-  erate  of  additions  joined  to  an  awk-  ward  two-story  frame.  A  neutered  structure.  It  is  a  house  of  steep,  narrow  stairways  and  ill-conceived  double  win-  dows,  where  handfuls  of  dead  flies  col-  lect  between  thepanes.  Only  Jonathan  sleeps  in  the  house.  The  seven  novitiates  sleep  in  a  long  tube  of  corrugated  sheet  metal-war  surplus:  a  Quonset  hut  of  thirty  rooms  joined  to  the  back  of  the  old  farmhouse,  brought  here  by  the  Church  to  hold  convicts  When  we  arrived,  to  find  house  and  barn  sur-  rounded  by  old  tires,  piles  of  cans  and  broken  bottles,  and  corroded  pieces  of  ancient  machinery,  only  our  Quonset  hut  stoodshining  in  the  sun.  It  looked  like  the  kind  of  barracks  found  on  gov-  ernment-sponsored  exploration  sites  in  desolate  wilderness.  When  we  first  came  here,  I  used  to  ride  my  bicycle  out  on  the  roads  at  midday,  wondering  at  the  queer  soli-  tude  of  these  hills.  There  is  not  the  slightest  movement  of  air  at  midday;  the  hills  stand  blunt,  bare,  heavy  on  all  sides,  and  there  is  no  horizon  other  than  the  next  hill.  I  rode  down  within  the  hills,  between  long,  sand-covered  slopes  cluttered  with  rocks  and  boulders,  moving  past  what  were  once  fences  odd  looping  strands  of  wire,  patched  to  scraps  of  board,  rising  and  turning  down  through  the  hot  sand.  The  hills  around  Saint  Augustine's  Farm  seem  to  hold  the  air  from  moving,  or  the  heat  holds  to  them,  and  the  weight  of  the  heat,  the  pressure  of  dead  air,  stifles  sound.  Heat  on  the  road  softened  my  bi-  cycle  tires,  threatened  to  stop  them  from  turning  through  the  stillness  of  the  full  sun.  The  only  life  I  noticed  was  the  flies.  Flies  thrive  in  this  heat.  They  collect  in  small  groups  to  circle  any-  thing  that  moves,  and  on  my  bicycle  I  had  to  pedal  hard  at  times-I  could  turn  and  see  the  flies  chasing  me,  strung  out  behind  in  earnest  pursuit-until  I  left  one  group  behind  and  could  rest  a  little,  until  a  new  group  found  me.  One  afternoon  I  found  a  mongrel  dog  that  had  been  run  by  the  flies  and  lay  in  the  middle  of  the  road  staring  up  at  the  sun.  A  few  stunted  trees  grow  on  the  hills  There  are  patches  of  wiry,  sharp  " b"grass  among  the  endless  scattering  of  rocks,  and  propped  low  to  the  ground,  set  in  among  the  rocks  on  every  hill,  there  are  sheets  of  metal  roofing  that  seem  a  natural  part  of  the  gray  land-  scape.  On  my  first  ride  I  thought  I  was  alone  with  the  flies,  until  I  discovered  that  above  me  on  the  slopes  there  were  hogs  under  all  the  sheets  of  roofing-  hundreds  of  gray  animals  crouched  among  the  rocks-hogs  dusted  in  sand  to  protect  themselves  from  the  flies  and  the  heat.  They  were  gathered  by  twos  and  threes  in  the  low  patches  of  shade  to  keep  from  burning,  a  silent  herd  watching  me  pass,  hiding  under  the  white  light  of  noon.  I  should  not  have  been  surprised.  Saint  Augustine's  herd  has  gone,  but  the  neighboring  hills  are  crowded  still  with  hogs.  Hogs.and  flies  are  the  only  things  that  can  survive  this  heat.  EONARD  is  the  only  manwho  could  live  here  indefinitely,  Leonard  is  our  caretaker  at  Saint  Augustine's  Farm.  He  came  to  Saint  Augustine's  as  a  convict.  He  finished  his  time,  but  the  isolation  of  life  on  this  farm  agreed  with  him.  He  stayed  on  as  cook  and  custodian  to  his  former  fellow-inmates,  and  when  Father  Prior  inherited  the  farm  from  the  Church,  Leonard  was  adopted  by  the  brethren.  When  the  brethren  failed,  Father  Prior  left  the  farm  in  Leonard's  care.  Father  Prior  left  him  standing  alone  in  the  yard,  in  the  winter  rain,  to  care  for  the  empty  land,  and  he  stayed  on  by  himself  for  seven  years.  Then  we,  in  our  turn,  adopted  Leonard.  In  fact,  we  were  forced  by  Father  Prior  to  adopt  Leon-  ard.  It  was  a  condition  in  the  terms  of  purchase  that  he  be  allowed  to  stay.  Leonard  is  always  awake  before  the  rest  of  us,  up  with  the  dawn.  Every  morning  it  is  the  same.  Our  walls  in-  side  the  Quonset  hut  are  pasteboard  dividers-light  blue,  almost  white-  and  from  my  cot,  looking  up  to  my  window,  I  can  feel  the  world  outside  breathing  a  little  in  the  coolness  of  first  light.  I  see  the  early-morning  light  re-  flected  on  my  walls-a  quiet  light  that  settles  over  the  rocks  and  the  sand  out-  side,  and  over  the  hogs  out  in  the  morning,  rooting  and  breeding  before  the  sun  can  find  them.  From  my  cot  I  hear  Leonard  stirring  in  his  room.  There  are  no  curtains  or  rugs,  the  pasteboard  dividers  are  thin,  and  sound  carries  easily  through  the  hut.  Every  sound  echoes  up  and  down  the  hall,  magnified  inside  our  hollow  shell,  No  passage  where  air  might  flow  is  closed,  and  we  have  come  to  observe  Leon-  ard's  stirrings,  the  sound  of  Leonard  waking,  as  a  ritual  of  some  impor-  tance-the  first  sure  signof  life  each  day  on  Saint  Augustine's  Farm.  For  the  half  hour  it  takes  him  to  prepare  him-  self  to  meet  the  new  day,  the  hallway  and  the  bathroom  at  the  end  of  the  hall  are  exclusively  his.  I  said  good  morning  quietly  to  Leon-  ard  once-he  can  easily  look  in  on  me  as  he  passes  my  open  door-but  it  was  as  if  I  were  intruding  on  his  privacy  in  the  hall.  He  waited  to  turn  his  head  until  it  was  too  late.  The  back  of  his  skull  barely  recognized  my  greeting  with  a  token  swivel  after  he  had  gained  the  other  side  of  the  doorway.  Since  then  I  have  contented  myself  with  lying  here  and  watching  him  pass.  I  can  hear  him  scuffing  his  slippers  on  the  bare  floor,  coming  down  the  hall,  and  for  a  moment  he  is  framed  in  my  doorway:  he  is  slouching,  naked  to  the  waist;  his  bluejeans  are  baggy;  he  has  a  towel  around  his  neck  and  a  leather  toilet  kit  in  hand.  He  walks  with  his  head  pro-  truded  and  hanging  from  his  rounded  back.  All  the  mornings  of  Leonard  in  my  doorway  could  be  one.  It  would  be  the  same.  All  the  seconds  he  has  been  framed  there  could  be  collected  in  one  long  passing.  Leonard  performs  his  morning  toilet  with  a  kind  of  sanitary  fury.  It  is  a  thing  beyond  cleanliness.  And  the  un-  limited  vigor,  the  unself-conscious  vol-  ume  with  which  his  preparations  for  the  day  echo  through  the  Quonset  hut-he  is  at  all  other  times  extreme-  ly  reserved,  inward-turning-convinces  me  that  he  has  no  idea  how  celebrated  a  performance  it  has  become.  I  hear  him  reach  the  safety  of  the  bathroom,  and  immediately  the  first  long  minutes  of  snorting  and  gagging  begin,  the  coughing  up  of  refuse  col-  lected  during  his  hot  dreamless  night.  There  is  the  violent  rushing  of  both  sink  taps  turned  on  full,  then  silence-  Leonard's  meticulous,  pruning  silence.  I  hear  an  occasional  clink  of  shaving  gear  picked  up  and  laid  down,  knock-  ing  against  porcelain.  I  hear  ferocious  scrubbing  and  gargling,  and  then  tooth-  paste  splattered  into  an  empty  sink.  And,  finally,  I  hear  the  sound  of  Leon-  ard  passing  water,  heavily.  The  roar  of  " b"the  toilet  fills  the  hall  and  follows  Leonard  past  my  door.  There  is  no  change  in  him.  I  used  to  expect  to  see  an  invigorated  Leonard,  scrubbed  and  glowing.  I  wanted  to  see  a  man  revived,  no  longer  slouching,  walking  with  a  bounce  to  his  step,  even  whistling,  but  there  is  never  any  real  change.  His  first  cigarette  of  the  day  hangs  in  place.  Leonard's  cigarette  is  a  resolution  of  the  line  that  moves  from  his  rounded  back  through  his  shoulders  to  his  hanging  head.  His  wavy  hair  is  slicked  back,  wet,  exposing  a  mas-  sive  forehead.  From  the  wide  forehead  his  face  narrows  to  a  softly  rounded  chin  set  between  premature  jowls.  He  would  appear  more  manlike  with  a  beard.  He  is  not  quite  manlike.  Leon-  ard  is,  at  the  last,  an  institutional  being  with  institutional  dignity-an  armed-  services  man,  a  hospital  orderly,  a  con-  vict.  He  has  been  all  of  those  things.  &quot;Gentle  Leonard,&quot;  Jonathan  says,  but  Jonathan  sleeps  upstairs  in  the  farmhouse,  undisturbed  by  the  amaz-  ing  sounds  of  Leonard's  morning  toilet.  Jonathan  never  comes  into  the  Quonset  hut.  Jonathan  has  demanded  privacy,  and  he  hears  nothing  of,  and  could  not  tolerate,  Leonard's  first  moments  of  waking.  He  has,  without  speaking-  Jonathan  could  never  speak  of  these  things-made  clear  his  feeling  that  such  functions  should  be  performed  in  subtle  fashion.  Because  we  enter  the  dining  room  from  the  Quonset  hut,  it  is  in  the  dining  room  that  Jonathan's  privacy  is  most  vulnerable,  and  we  have  threat-  ened  among  ourselves  to  fill  the  cow's  silver  milk  bucket  with  water,  to  hide  the  bucket  in  the  bathroom  at  the  end  ofthe  hall.  It  was  planned  that  one  of  the  seven  would  ask  to  be  excused  dur-  ing  dinner,  and,  holding  the  bucket  aloft,  tip  it  high  above  the  toilet  bowl,  sending  the  sound  of  an  endless  stream  echoing  through  our  Quonset  hut  to  Jonathan  at  his  place  at  table.  E  had  Jonathan  to  fasten  our-  selves  toat  the  Priory.  Our  wist-  ful  prophet.  We  have  Jonathan  to  thank  for  our  life  in  this  rainless  wilder-  ness.  It  was  no  smallthing  to  reject  Father  Prior  and  a  life  of  constant  shel-  ter.  It  happened  after  months  of  talking  with  Jonathan.  We  followed  him  about  the  Priory  grounds.  We  sat  in  groups  of  twos  and  threes  at  his  feet  in  his  cell,  earnest  victims  of  his  potato  love.  In  the  library,  like  schoolgirls,  we  whis-  pered  of  leaving.  We  exchanged  grand  letters  of  premise  and  thesis  in  the  dark  Priory  corridors.  &quot;Survival,  necessity  dealt  with,  is  the  basis  for  the  dignity  of  man,&quot;  Jonathan  wrote.  &quot;It  is  the  filth  of  common  life  that  will  temper  our  spirits.  We  will  return,  to  marry  honest  sweat  on  the  land  with  the  end-  less  bleeding  of  our  souls-for  better  or  for  worse,  tofind  ourselves  where  we  are  least  likely  to  survive.&quot;  We  believed  him.  We  believed  that  Jonathan  could  lead  us  to  a  new  reality  through  simple  physical  labor,  that  contact  with  the  land  and  with  the  people  of  the  land  would  refurbish  our  thinly  purified  souls.  So  far,  our  only  contact  with  humanity  at  large  has  been  Leonard.  Without  apparent  consideration  Jon-  athan  consented  to  Father  Prior's  con-  dition  that  Leonard  be  allowed  to  stay  on  as  cook  and  farm  manager.  Jona-  than  sent  Leonard  to  buy  our  live-  stock-the  milking  cow,  the  chickens,  a  lamb-and  we  had  to  hide  them  all  in  the  basement  ofthe  barn  to  keep  them  from  the  sun.  Leonard  was  given  the  job  of  butchering  the  lamb.  He  hung  it  in  the  barn  too  long,  and  the  lamb  covered  itself  with  maggots.  Jon-  athan  asked  Leonard  to  lead  us  in  the  killing  and  plucking  of  our  chickens,  to  organize  the  event  as  a  man  of  ex-  perience.  While  Leonard  and  Jonathan  remained  in  the  kitchen  packaging  chickens  for  the  freezer,  the  seven  novitiates  sat  out  behind  the  barn  in  the  sun,  splattered  with  chicken  blood,  plunging  the  stinking  birds  into  boiling  water  to  prepare  their  feathers  for  plucking.  Sweat  bees  hovered  over  a  pile  of  bloodied  feathers  on  the  ground,  and  flies  bit  into  our  backs  while  we  worked.  Jonathan  maintained  complete  faith  in  Leonard.  Together  they  baked  hard  loaves  of  bread.  They  made  hard  cider  thatfroths  in  this  heat  and  burns  our  throats.  Their  soups  are  salt-laden.  Their  porridge  is  bland  and  sticks  to  the  roofs  of  our  mouths.  For  his  part,  Leonard  follows  Jonathan  about  as  we  once  did.  In  the  evenings  they  sit  while  Jonathan  sings  romantic  chorales-  Leonard  in  apparent  bliss.  Leonard  spends  hours  listening,  smiling  shyly,  while  Jonathan  holds  court,  talking  of  cathedrals,  museums,  the  religions  of  the  East.  Saint  Augustine's  Farm  is  a  " b"meeting  place  for  them,  a  midpoint  where  Jonathan  can  stare  out  in  safety  at  the  furious  workings  of  the  world  and  where  Leonard  can  sleep,  safe  from  the  society  he  has  been  escaping  all  his  life,  and  perhaps  glean  a  little  of  Jona-  than's  quiet  grace.  ~  The  farm  has  failed,  a  complete  disaster.  Leonard  is  about  to  be  aban-  doned  again.  Jonathan  cannot  wait  to  get  himself  safely  back  under  the  shade  of  Father  Prior's  gowns,  and  still  those  two  want  desperately  to  believe  in  each  other.  Together  they  have  produced  the  confusion  that  is  Saint  Augustine's  Farm.  Under  Father  Prior's  invisible  guiding  hand,  they  have  kept  Saint  Au-  gustine's  Farm  burning  in  the  sun.  NOVITIATES  give  up  money  and  clothes  when  they  go  to  the  Priory.  They  donate  jewelry,  their  grandfathers'  gold  watches,  pewter  beer  mugs  from  their  godfathers  given  on  christening  day.  They  give  their  dearest  possessions  to  the  Priory,  but  they  do  not  give  up  their  automobiles.  Novitiates  park  their  automobiles  in  the  Priory  garage  until  after  they  have  taken  life  vows.  So,  when  it  was  time,  we  departed  out  from  the  Priory  gates  in  a  long  train  of  Volkswagens.  With  Jonathan  driving  a  Volkswagen  bus  at  the  head,  we  set  off  under  the  sun  to  pass  through  the  hills  to  Saint  Augus-  tine's  Farm.  When  our  caravan  arrived,  Leonard  emerged  from  the  Quonset  hut.  It  was  ten  in  the  morning.  Leonard  stood  in  the  yard  smiling,  surrounded  by  novi-  tiates  all  wearing  heavy  black-rimmed  spectacles,  all  dressed  in  the  blacktrou-  sers  and  oldloose  white  shirts  that  used  to  be  worn  by  men  on  Sundays-Pri-  ory-issue  work  dress.  A  dinner  fork  lay  embedded  in  the  gravel  at  my  feet.  Sun-bleached,  flattened  cardboard  box-  es  and  forgotten  odds  and  ends  of  laundry-socks  mostly,  convicts'  socks  and  black  Priory-issue  socks-lay  in  the  sand  around  the  house.  &quot;It  would  bea  splendid  task,  before  we  begin  moving  into  our  quarters,  if  we  all  joined  in  seeing  to  the  garden,&quot;  Jonathan  announced.  &quot;We  should  re-  store  the  garden  first.  It  will  be  a  task  directed  toward  the  future,  Itwill  re-  vive  our  hearts  and  our  spirits.  The  work  in  the  morning  sun  will  warm  our  blood  and  build  our  appetites  for  our  new  life.&quot;  It  did  not  occur  to  Jonathan  that  there  had  been  no  rain  on  the  garden  for  seven  years,  that  even  with  rain  the  garden  would  prob-  ably  never  be  capable  of  producing  more  than  a  stunted  turnip  or  two.  As  we  prepared  to  meet  our  first  task  of  work  on  the  land-seven  novitiates  and  their  prophet  standing  over  a  bed  of  hot,  powdered  soil-Leonard  went  off  across  the  yard  without  speaking,  back  to  his  room.  We  agreed  to  work  side  by  side,  advancing  methodically,  turning  the  soil  until  we  had  traversed  the  length  and  breadth  of  the  garden.  It  was  a  test  of  sorts-to  work  smoothly  together,  to  finish  this  first  job  in  an  orderly  fash-  ion-but  before  we  had  advanced  a  dozen  yards  we  unearthed  the  carcass  of  a  rotting  hog.  Our  line  broke.  A  cir-  cle  formed  around  the  dead  hog.  The  soft  carcass  was  poked  at  with  a  shovel  blade,  We  could  almost  see  the  stink  " b"rising  in  the  heat.  It  is  a  huge  garden-  several  acres-large  enough  to  support  thirty  men,  and  as  we  moved  forward  we  found  a  second  carcass,  and  a  third.  We  found  the  garden  filled  with  hogs,  lying  back  to  back  just  below  the  sur-  face.  Jonathan,  horrified  but  silent,  kept  us  working  and  worked  him-  self,  as  if  he  could  not  stop,  until  they  all  lay  exposed  behind  our  line-a  steaming  mass  of  heads  and  feet  and  rotting  centers.  Leonard  remained  in  his  room  all  during  that  first  day.  He  slept  on  his  cot  in  the  afternoon  while  Jonathan  had  us  carry  rocks  to  bury  the  garden.  He  slept  on  his  cot  all  evening  while  we  dragged  our  tired  bodies  back  and  forth  down  the  hallway,  finding  and  settling  into  our  living  quarters.  The  question  of  dead  hogs  in  our  garden  was  never  mentioned  to  him.  Hogs  had  not  been  raised  on  Saint  Augustine's  Farm  for  seven  years,  but  Jonathan  held  his  si-  lence.  It  was  beyond  him.  I  didn't  see  Leonard  again  until  the  next  morning,  when  he  slouched  by  my  open  doorway  on  his  way  to  the  bathroom  at  the  end  of  the  hall.  N  the  early-morning  sun,  I  emerge  from  the  black  hole  of  the  storm  cellar,  where  the  milk  bucket  is  kept.  In  my  hand,  our  silver  bucket  catches  the  sun,  gleaming,  our  icon  of  the  brilliant  Saint  Augustine's  mornings.  We  are  Saint  Augustine's  milkmaids.  &quot;Rhine  maidens  of  the  wasteland,&quot;  Jonathan  has  called  us.  I  squat,  and  the  others  stand  huddled  around  me,  shad-  ing  me  from  the  sun-a  circle  ofbright  black-rimmed  eyes  staring  down  at  me.  &quot;Briinnhilde's  last  milking,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;And  Father  Prior  can  have  his  milk  this  morning  warm  from  the  teat  and  frothing  in  his  cup.&quot;  Looking  up  through  the  circle  of  faces,  I  nod  silently  toward  the  open  kitchen  win-  dow  beside  us,  where  Leonard  pre-  pares  the  breakfast.  Father  Prior  con-  vinced  Leonard  that  it  was  unsanitary  to  drink  fresh  cow's  milk-Leonard  has  never  tasted  of  Briinnhilde-and  this  morning  Father  Prior  is  expected  for  breakfast,  to  have  us  sign  the  papers  that  will  give  ownership  of  Saint  Au-  gustine's  Farm  back  to  the  Priory.  &quot;'They  will  sell  old  Briinn-  hilde  down  the  river.&quot;  Seven  novitiates  move  off  across  the  yard  toward  the  barn.  &quot;Do  you  think  Leonard  will  get  to  stay  on?&quot;  &quot;Leonard  and  the  flies.&quot;  &quot;Leonard  will  be  here  until  Father  Prior  dies.  They  have  kept  him  out  here  by  himself  all  these  years  like  an  offering  to  the  sun.&quot;  Inside  the  barn  I  splash  wa-  ter  on  Briinnhilde's  teats-  cleansing,  caressing  her  to  get  the  milk  down-warm  jets  streaming  into  the  silver  buck-  et,  beating  a  rhythm  against  the  bottom,  frothing.  Briinn-  hilde  will  not  be  unhappy  to  leave.  She  hasspent  all  her  days  at  Saint  Augustine's  Farm  tethered  in  the  stable  beneath  the  barn.  Nothing  grows  for  her  to  eat  outside.  The  constant  sun  would  roast  her  alive  before  noon.  ET  downamong  these  bald  hills,  shining  under  the  white  light  like  a  dream  lost  in  the  sand,  there  is  a  spring-water  lake.  We  could  not  have  stayed  here  as  long  as  we  have  without  the  saving  grace  of  the  lake.  It  is  warm  and  swampy  at  the  edge,  ringed  with  lily  pads  and  a  stand  of  leafless  ironwood-a  bristling  wall  of  thickets  before  the  rocky  shore-but  the  wa-  ter  is  cool  enough  in  the  mid-  dle  for  swimming,  and  we  have  cut  a  path  down  to  where  we  can  launch  a  rowboat.  We  have  swum  from  the  rowboat  in  the  afternoons  and  we  have  spent  many  evenings  " b"on  the  lake  fishing,  all  ofus  together-not  Leonard;  Leonard  is  afraid  of  the  water-  seven  novitiates  and  their  prophet  crammed  into  one  small  row-  boat.  We  went  fishing  last  night,  to  say  our  fare-  wells  to  the  lake,  and  we  stayed  until  after  dark,  drifting  without  a  breeze  among  the  lily  pads,  drifting  silently  into  patches  of  cool  night  air,  watching  the  mist  rise  around  us.  The  boat  seemed  not  to  move,  but  we  could  hear  lily  pads  brushing  the  hull.  We  fished  for  black  bass  while  Jona-  than  sat  dreaming  in  the  bow.  We  cast  sev-  en  floating  plugs  into  seven  dark  pools  of  open  water  among  the  pads,  jerking  on  the  lines  at  intervals,  to  make  the  plugs  look  like  careless  frogs  on  the  night  water.  We  were  about  to  reel  in  our  lines  and  take  up  the  oars  when  Jonathan  said  he  thought  he  heard  deer  coming  through  the  iron-  wood  to  drink  from  the  lake.  He  perched  in  the  bow,  intent  on  the  shore-  line.  Jonathan  had  been  insisting  for  months  that  he  once  saw  some  deer  on  thefar  side  of  the  lake,  near  where  we  were  fishing,  and  he  was  sure  that  at  last,  on  his  last  evening,he  would  have  his  chance  to  see  them  at  close  range.  We  could  hear  an  animal  coming  through  the  thickets,  but  the  seven  no-  vitiates  had  been  to  the  lake  after  dark  before  and  had  seen  Jonathan's  &quot;deer&quot;  rummaging  in  the  night  among  the  lily  pads.  They  were  hogs-hogs  that  had  escaped  from  their  pastures  and  gone  wild.  We  had  not  told  Jonathan.  We  never  expected  him  to  know,  and  we  preferred  it  that  way.  At  the  last  mo-  ment  I  tried  to  warn  him,  but  he  waved  frantically  over  his  shoulder  for  silence.  The  hog  we  had  been  listening  to  came  out  of  the  ironwood  within  a  dozen  yards  of  our  boat.  It  was  a  male  hog  full  grown,  standing  higher  than  a  man's  waist,  and  even  in  the  dark  it  was  close  enough  for  us  to  see  that  its  great  flopping  ears  were  torn  and  covered  with  blood  and  flies.  The  rest  of  its  body  it  had  caked  with  the  mud  of  the  lake.  Standing  up  to  its  knees  in  water  among  the  lily  pads,  the  hog  pushed  its  snout  along  the  still  surface,  snuffling,  blowing  ripples.  It  came  to-  ward  us,  jerking  each  foot  in  the  wa-  ter,  a  stepat  a  time,  pausing  with  each  step,  with  the  effort  of  slogging  through  the  mud  of  the  lake  bottom.  Its  testicles  hung  behind  its  back  legs  in  a  gunny-  sack  of  mud-caked  skin,  swinging  with  each  short  step,  and  with  each  swing  the  long  sack  just  brushed  the  dark  glass  of  the  water.  After  a  few  min-  utes  it  sensed  our  presence.  Jonathan  and  the  seven  novitiates  huddled  in  their  boat,  watching  the  big  hog.  The  hog  craned  to  see;  threatening  the  night  with  small  eyes,  it  thrust  out  its  neck  and  swung  its  massive  head  back  and  forth  in  wide,  low  sweeps  across  the  water  which  made  its  body  sway.  The  hog  began  blowing  through  its  snout,  in  our  direction,  testing  the  night  air  with  short,  searching  breaths  of  alarm  and  suspicion.  Jonathan  stood  straight  up  in  the  boat.  The  hog  lurched  backward,  grunting  in  genuine  terror,  trying  to  run  and  get  turned  around  at  the  same  time,  and  went  leaping  and  heaving  itself  through  the  water,  breaking  through  the  ironwood  to  get  back  to  solid  ground.  It  stopped  when  it  reached  the  shore.  We  could  hear  it  blowing.  Then  we  heard  a  second  hog  crashing  through  the  thickets  nearby,  and  a  third  hog  beyond  the  second,  and  the  crashing  in  the  ironwood  moved  all  down  the  shoreline.  The  whole  side  of  the  lake  where  we  had  been  fishing  was  alive  with  frightened  hogs.  Jona-  than  remained  standing,  his  long  frame  rigid  with  alarm  and  indignation,  do-ing  his  best  to  ignore  the  stampede,  looking  off  across  the  lake.  CALL  out  to  the  others,  &quot;He  is  coming  now!&quot;  We  can  hear  Father  Prior  walking  on  the  road,  coming  up  our  hill.  The  barn  is  set  into  the  hill,  and  the  stable  yard,  where  we  are  standing,  is  on  the  downside.  The  yard  is  filled  with  rocks  and  boulders,  and  we  are  sunk  down,  seven  novitiates  amid  the  rubble,  looking  out  at  the  road.  He  will  not  see  us.  Father  Prior  comes  on,  under  the  hidden  watch  of  the  seven,  thinking  himself  alone.  Un-  der  a  wide  black  hat,  his  face  is  dark,  wet  with  his  walking  through  the  hills.  With  each  stride,  I  see  his  legs  out-  lined  under  the  sweep  of  black  gown,  pumping  vigorously-bare,  well-mus-  cled  legs  under  the  robes.  When  he  is  past  us  we  turn  for  the  house,  for  our  last  breakfast  on  Saint  Augustine's  Farm.  I  carry  the  silver  bucket  filled  with  Briinnhilde's  milk.  We  enter  the  dining  room  from  the  Quonset  hut  and  gather  around  the  breakfast  table.  Leonard  serves  steaming  plates  of  beans  and  bacon.  We  offer  Briinnhilde's  warm  milk  to  everyone,  and  Jonathan  pours  out  his  hard  cider.  Father  Prior  drinks  the  cider.  Large  wooden  fan  blades  turn  silently,  slowly  over  the  breakfast  table,  and  the  heat  outside  can  be  seen  rising  in  long  waves  from  the  hills.  &quot;Fellas,  I  would  never  have  said  it  before,&quot;  Father  Prior  declares  after  we  are  all  seated.  &quot;You  did  what  you  " b"thought  was  right.  I  would  never  have  said  it  while  you  wanted  to  try-you  know  that,  fellas-but  this  is  no  life  for  men  as  sensitive  as  ourselves.  You  can  see  that  now  -there's  no  life  for  gentle  men  outside  the  sanction  of  eter-  nal  grace.  You  know  I'm  talking  about  our  life  at  the  Priory,  fellas.&quot;  Seven  heads  adorned  with  black-rimmed  glasses,  milk  froth  on  their  upper  lips,  nod  over  seven  plates  of  beans.  Leon-  ard  brings  more  cider,  and  Father  Prior  drinks.  Though  there  has  been  absolute  silence  among  the  seven,  I  feel  just  a  hint  of  festive  air  stirring  under  the  slowly  turning  blades.  &quot;Let  me  propose  a  toast,  brothers,&quot;  Jonathan  says.  He  has  not  referred  to  us  as  his  brothers  since  we  left  the  Priory.  He  is  playing  for  Father  Prior's  approval.  They  are  working  together  now,  to  hold  us  to  them.  There  has  been  an  understanding  reached  between  them  concerning  our  future.  &quot;Let  us  drink  to  change,  to  discovery,  but  to  truth  in  discovery,  wherever  that  truth  may  lie.  Let  us  drink  to  change,  that  in  change  we  might  find  peace  and  stability  at  the  last.&quot;  Change  is  all  that  is  left  for  the  seven  nameless  novitiates.  We  have  resisted  life  vows,  we  have  kept  our  Volkswagens,  and  we  hold  a  silent  counsel  among  ourselves  at  this  last  breakfast.  Father  Prior  and  Jona-  than  woo  our  support  with  care,  for  all  the  good  it  will  do  them.  Seven  heads  nod  to  Jonathan's  toast.  We  wipe  our  empty  plates  with  slabs  of  Leonard's  hard  bread.  Father  Prior  is  flushed,  bathed  in  sweat.  'The  papers  returning  Saint  Augustine's  Farm  are  on  the  table  and  passed  for  all  tosign.  They  want  us  to  speak,  to  let  them  know  whether  we  will  return  with  Jonathan  to  the  fold,  but  we  remain  poised,  enjoying  the  feeling  of  a  large  breakfast  and  the  spirit  feeling  of  hard  cider  burning  in  our  stomachs.  We  are  as  silent  now  to  their  pleafor  sup-  port  as  we  were  the  day  we  gathered  around  Leonard  in  the  yard  and  saw  for  the  first  time  the  ruined  farm  that  was  to  be  our  new  life.  All  that  is  left  is  to  break  our  silence,  to  announce  our  departure-we  have  agreed  among  ourselves  to  continue  our  course,  to  form  our  caravan  again  and  make  the  last  move  away  from  them-but  we  wait  for  the  right  moment.  Leonard  retires  to  the  Quonset  hut.  Father  Prior  slurs  his  words  a  little.  His  words  sound  as  if  they  are  soft-  ened  by  the  heat  before  they  can  reach  our  ears.  &quot;Well,  fellas,  I  suppose  you  have  all  made  plans  of  one  kind  or  an-  other  .  ..  I  just  want  to  say  ...&quot;  I  am  thinking  about  changing  the  oil  in  my  car,  wondering  whether  it  will  start  after  sitting  so  long  in  the  heat,  when  I  hear  Leonard  close  the  bathroom  door  in  the  Quonset  hut.  The  seven  novitiates  begin  to  smile,  staring  at  their  plates.  We  raise  our  heads  in  unison,  silently  applauding  Leonard,  the  unconscious  betrayer  of  celibate  dignity.  And  I  have  a  vision,  of  a  great  chorus  joining  Leonard-every  hog  on  every  hillside  around  Saint  Au-  gustine's  Farm,  ten  thousand  hogs-  all  squatting,  passing  pure  spring  water  under  the  scorching  sun.  And  the  sweet  steam  from  their  water  rises  like  a  cur-  tain  from  the  hills  "