 b"BRISSEAU  was  asleep  in  the  moon-light.  Lying  on  his  back  in  bed,  with  his  fat  stomach  jutting  into  the  air  and  his  mouth  forming  an  inane  smile,  he  appeared  to  be  some  kind  of  inanimate  object,  like  a  large  football  or  two  tickets  to  the  opera.  A  moment  later,  when  he  rolled  over  and  the  moonlight  seemed  to  strike  him  from  a  different  angle,  he  looked  ex-  actly  like  a  twenty-seven-piece  starter  set  of  silverware,  complete  with  salad  bow!  and  soup  tureen.  He's  dreaming,  Cloquet  thought,  as  he  stood  over  him,  revolver  in  hand.  He's  dreaming,  and  I  exist  in  reality.  Cloquet  hated  reality  but  realized  it  was  still  the  only  place  to  get  a  good  steak.  He  had  never  taken  a  human  life  be-  fore.  True,  he  had  once  shot  a  mad  dog,  but  only  after  it  had  been  certi-  fied  as  mad  by  a  team  of  psychiatrists.  (The  dog  was  diagnosed  as  manic-  depressive  after  it  had  tried  to  bite  off  Cloquet's  nose  and  then  could  not  stop  laughing.)  In  his  dream,  Brisseau  was  on  a  sun-  lit  beach  and  running  joyously  toward  his  mother's  outstretched  arms,  but  just  as  he  began  to  embrace  the  weeping  gray-haired  woman,  she  turned  into  two  scoops  of  vanilla  ice  cream.  Brisseau  moaned  and  Cloquet  lowered  the  revolver.  He  had  entered  through  the  window  and  stood  poised  over  Brisseau  for  more  than  two  hours,  unable  to  pull  the  trigger.  Once,  he  had  even  cocked  the  hammer  and  placed  the  muzzle  of  the  gun  right  in  Brisseau's  left  ear.  Then  there  was  a  sound  at  the  door,  and  Cloquet  leaped  behind  the  bureau,  leaving  the  pistol  stick-  ing  out  of  Brisseau's  ear.  Madame  Brisseau,  who  was  wearing  a  flowered  bathrobe,  entered  the  room,  turned  on  a  small  lamp,  and  noticed  the  weapon  protruding  straight  up  out  of  the  side  of  her  husband's  head.  Almost  maternally,  she  sighed  and  removed  it,  plac-  ing  it  beside  the  pillow.  She  tucked  in  a  loose  corner  of  the  quilt,  snapped  off  the  lamp,  and  left.  Cloquet,  who  had  fainted,  awoke  an  hour  later.  For  one  panicky  moment,  he  imagined  he  was  a  child  again,  back  on  the  Riviera,  but  after  fifteen  minutes  went  by  and  he  saw  no  tourists  it  came  to  him  that  he  was  still  behind  Brisseau's  chest  of  drawers.  He  returned  to  the  bed,  seized  the  pistol,  and  again  pointed  it  at  Brisseau's  head,  but  he  was  still  unable  to  squeeze  off  the  shot  that  would  end  the  life  of  the  infamous  Fascist  informer.  Gaston  Brisseau  came  from  a  wealthy,  right-wing  family,  and  decid-  ed  early  in  life  to  become  a  professional  informer.  As  a  young  man,  he  took  speech  lessons  so  that  he  could  inform  more  clearly.  Once,  he  had  confessed  to  Cloquet,  &quot;God,  I  enjoy  tattling  on  people.&quot;  &quot;But  why?&quot;  Cloquet  said.  &quot;I  don't  know.  Getting  them  in  Dutch,  squealing.&quot;  Brisseau  ratted  on  his  friends  for  the  pure  sake  of  it,  Cloquet  thought.  Unredeemable  evil!  Cloquet  had  once  known  an  Algerian  who  loved  smack-  ing  people  on  the  back  of  the  head  and  then  smiling  and  denying  it.  It  seemed  the  world  was  divided  into  good  and  bad  people.  The  good  ones  slept  better,  Cloquet  thought,  while  the  bad  ones  seemed  to  enjoy  the  waking  hours  much  more.  Cloquet  and  Brisseau  had  met  years  before,  under  dramatic  circumstances.  Brisseau  had  gotten  drunk  at  the  Deux  Magots  one  night  and  staggered  to-  ward  the  river.  Thinking  he  was  al-  ready  home  in  his  apartment,  he  re-  moved  his  clothes,  but  insteadof  getting  into  bed  he  got  into  the  Seine.  When  he  tried  to  pull  the  blankets  over  him-  self  and  gota  handful  of  water,he  began  screaming.  Cloquet,  who  at  that  moment  happened  to  be  chasing  his  toupee  across  the  Pont-Neuf,  heard  a  cry  from  the  icy  water.  The  night  was  windy  and  dark,  and  Cloquet  had  a  split  second  to  decide  if  he  would  risk  his  life  to  save  a  stranger.  Unwilling  to  make  such  a  momentous  decision  on  an  empty  stomach,  he  went  to  a  res-  taurant  and  dined.  Then,  stricken  with  remorse,  he  purchased  some  fishing  tackle  and  returned  to  fish  Brisseau  out  ofthe  river.  At  first  he  tried  a  dry  fly,  but  Brisseau  was  too  clever  to  bite,  and  in  the  end  Cloquet  was  forced  to  coax  Brisseau  to  shore  with  an  offer  of  free  dance  lessons  and  then  land  him  with  a  net.  While  Brisseau  was  being  meas-  ured  and  weighed,  the  two  became  friends.  Now  Cloquet  stepped  closer  to  Bris-  seau's  sleeping  hulk  and  again  cocked  the  pistol.  A  feeling  of  nausea  swept  over  him  as  he  contemplated  the  impli-  cations  of  his  action.  This  was  an  ex-  istential  nausea,  caused  by  his  intense  awareness  of  the  contin-  gency  of  life,  and  could  not  be  relieved  with  an  ordinary  Alka-Seltzer.  What  was  re-  quired  was  an  Existential  Alka-  Seltzer-a  product  sold  in  many  Left  Bank  drugstores.  It  was  an  enormous  pill,  the  size  of  an  automobile  hubcap,  that,  dissolved  in  water,  took  away  the  queasy  feeling  in-  duced  by  too  much  awareness  of  life.  Cloquet  had  also  found  it  helpful  after  eating  Mexi-  can  food.  If  I  choose  to  kill  Brisseau,  Cloquet  thought  now,  I  am  defining  myself  as  a  murderer.  I  will  become  Cloquet  who  kills,  rather  than  simply  what  I  am:  Cloquet  who  teaches  Psychology  of  Fowl  at  the  Sor-  bonne.  By  choosing  my  action,  I  choose  it  for  all  mankind.  But  what  if  everyone  in  the  world  behaved  like  me  and  came  here  and  shot  Brisseau  through  the  ear?  What  a  mess!  Not  to  mention  the  commotion  from  the  doorbell  ringing  all  night,.  And  of  course  we'd  need  valet  park-  ing.  Ah,  God,  how  the  mind  boggles  when  it  turns  to  moral  " b"or  ethical  considerations!  Better  not  to  think  too  much.  Rely  more  on  the  body-the  body  is  more  dependable.  It  shows  up  for  meetings,  it  looks  good  in  a  sports  jacket,  and  where  it  really  comes  in  handy  is  when  you  want  to  geta  rubdown.  Cloquet  felt  a  sudden  need  to  re-  affirm  his  own  existence,  and  looked  into  the  mirror  over  Brisseau's  bureau.  (He  could  never  pass  a  mirror  with-  out  sneaking  a  peek,  and  once  at  a  health  club  he  had  stared  at  his  reflec-  tion  in  a  swimming  pool  for  so  long  that  the  management  was  forced  to  drain  it.)  It  was  no  use.  He  couldn't  shoot  a  man.  He  dropped  the  pistol  and  fled.  Out  on  the  street,  he  decided  to  go  to  La  Coupole  for  a  brandy.  He  liked  La  Coupole  because  it  was  always  bright  and  crowded,  and  he  could  usually  geta  table-quite  a  difference  from  his  own  apartment,  where  it  was  dark  and  gloomy  and  where  his  mother,  who  lived  there,  too,  always  refused  to  seat  him.  But  tonight  La  Coupole  was  filled.  Who  are  all  these  faces,  Clo-  quet  wondered.  They  seem  to  blur  into  an  abstraction:  &quot;The  People.&quot;  But  there  are  no  people,  he  thought-onlv  individuals.  Cloquet  felt  this  was  a  brilliant  perception,  one  that  he  could  use  impressively  at  some  chic  dinner  party,.  Because  of  observations  such  as  this,  he  had  not  been  invited  to  a  social  gathering  of  any  sort  since  1931.  He  decided  to  go  to  Juliet's  house.  &quot;Did  you  kill  him?&quot;  she  asked  as  he  entered  her  flat.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  Cloquet  said.  &quot;Are  you  sure  he  is  dead?&quot;  &quot;He  seemed  dead.  I  did  my  imi-  tation  of  Maurice  Chevalier,  and  it  usually  gets  a  big  hand.  This  time,  nothing.&quot;  &quot;Good.  Then  he'll  never  betray  the  Party  again.&quot;  Juliet  was  a  Marxist,  Cloquet  re-  minded  himself.  And  the  most  interest-  ing  typeof  Marxist-the  kind  with  long,  tanned  legs.  She  was  one  of  the  few  women  he  knew  who  could  hold  two  disparate  concepts  in  her  mind  at  once,  such  as  Hegel's  dialectic  and  why  if  you  stick  your  tongue  in  a  man's  ear  while  he  is  making  a  speech  he  will  startto  sound  like  Jerry  Lewis.  She  stood  before  him  now  in  a  tight  skirt  and  blouse,  and  he  wanted  to  possess  her-to  own  her  the  way  he  owned  any  other  object,  such  as  his  radio  or  the  rubber  pig  mask  he  had  worn  to  harass  the  Nazis  during  the  Occupation.  Suddenly  he  and  Juliet  were  mak-  ing  love-or  was  it  merely  sex?  He  knew  there  was  a  difference  between  sex  and  love,  but  felt  that  either  act  was  wonderful  unless  one  of  the  part-  ners  happened  to  be  wearing  a  lob-  ster  bib.  Women,  he  reflected,  were  a  soft,  enveloping  presence.  Existence  was  a  soft,  enveloping  presence,  too.  Sometimes  it  enveloped  you  totally.  Then  you  could  never  get  out  again  except  for  something  really  important,  like  your  mother's  birthday  or  jury  duty.  Cloquet  often  thought  there  was  a  great  difference  between  Being  and  Being-in-the-World,  and  figured  that  no  matter  which  group  he  belonged  to  the  other  was  definitely  having  more  fun.  He  slept  well  after  the  lovemaking,  as  usual,  but  the  next  morning,  to  his  great  surprise,  he  was  arrested  for  " b"the  murder  of  Gaston  Brisseau.  AT  police  headquar-  ters,  Cloquet  pro-  tested  his  innocence,  but  he  was  informed  that  his  fingerprints  had  been  found  all  over  Brisseau's  room  and  on  the  recovered  pistol.  When  he  broke  into  Brisseau's  house,  Clo-  quet  had  also  made  the  mistake  of  signing  the  guestbook.  It  was  hopeless.  The  case  was  open-and-shut.  The  trial,  which  took  place  over  the  fol-  lowing  weeks,  was  like  a  circus,  although  there  was  some  difficulty  get-  ting  the  elephants  into  the  courtroom.  At  last,  the  jury  found  Cloquet  guilty,  and  he  was  sen-  tenced  to  the  guillotine.  An  appeal  for  clemen-  cy  was  turned  down  on  a  technicality  when  it  was  learned  Cloquet's  lawyer  had  filed  it  while  wearing  a  cardboard  mustache.  Six  weeks  later,  on  the  eve  of  his  execution,  Cloquet  sat  alone  in  his  cell,  still  unable  to  believe  the  events  of  the  past  months-particularly  the  part  about  the  elephants  in  the  courtroom.  By  this  time  the  next  day,  he  would  be  dead.  Cloquet  had  always  thought  of  death  as  something  that  happened  to  other  people.  &quot;I  notice  it  happens  to  fat  people  a  lot,&quot;  he  told  his  lawyer.  To  Cloquet  himself,  death  seemed  to  be  only  another  abstraction.  Men  die,  he  thought,  but  does  Cloquet  die?  This  question  puzzled  him,  but  a  few  simple  line  drawings  on  a  pad  done  by  one  of  the  guards  set  the  whole  thing  clear.  There  was  no  evading  it.  Soon  he  would  no  longer  exist.  I  will  be  gone,  he  thought  wistfully,  but  Madame  Plotnick,  whose  face  looks  like  something  on  the  menu  in  a  seafood  restaurant,  will  still  be  around.  Cloquet  began  to  panic.  He  wanted  to  run  and  hide,  or,  even  better,  to  become  some-  thing  solid  and  durable-a  heavy  chair,  for  instance.  A  chair  has  no  problems,  he  thought.  It's  there;  nobody  bothers  it.  It  doesn't  have  to  pay  rent  or  get  involved  politically.  A  chair  can  never  stub  its  toe  or  misplace  its  earmuffs.  It  doesn't  have  to  smile  or  get  a  haircut,  and  you  never  have  to  worry  that  if  you  take  it  to  a  party  it  will  suddenly  start  coughing  or  make  a  scene.  People  just  sit  in  a  chair,  and  then  when  those  people  die  other  people  sit  in  it.  Clo-  quet's  logic  comforted  him,  and  when  the  jailers  came  at  dawn  to  shave  his  neck,  he  pretended  to  be  a  chair.  When  they  asked  him  what  he  wanted  for  his  last  meal,  he  said,  &quot;You're  asking  fur-  niture  what  it  wants  to  eat?  Why  not  just  upholster  me?&quot;  When  they  stared  at  him,  he  weakened  and  said,  &quot;Just  some  Russian  dressing.&quot;  Cloquet  had  always  been  an  atheist,  but  when  the  priest,  Father  Bernard,  arrived,  he  asked  if  there  was  still  time  for  him  to  convert.  l  Father  Bernard  shook  his  head.  &quot;This  time  of  year,  I  think  most  of  your  major  faiths  are  filled,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Probably  the  best  I  could  do  on  such  short  notice  is  maybe  make  a  call  and  get  you  into  something  Hindu.,  I'll  need  a  passport-sized  photograph,  though.&quot;  No  use,  Cloquet  reflected.  I  will  have  to  meet  my  fate  alone.  There  is  no  God.  There  is  no  purpose  to  life.  Nothing  lasts.  Even  the  works  of  the  great  Shakespeare  will  disappear  when  the  universe  burns  out-not  such  a  terrible  thought,  of  course,  when  it  comes  to  aplay  like  &quot;Titus  Androni-  cus,&quot;  but  what  about  the  others?  No  wonder  some  people  commit  suicide!  Why  not  end  this  absurdity?  Why  go  through  with  this  hollow  charade  called  life?  Why,  except  that  some-  where  within  us  a  voice  says,  &quot;Live.&quot;  Always,  from  some  inner  region,  we  hear  the  command,  &quot;Keep  living!&quot;  Cloquet  recognized  the  voice;  it  was  his  insurance  salesman.  Naturally,  he  thought-Fishbein  doesn't  want  to  pay  off.  Cloquet  longed  to  be  free-to  be  out  of  jail,  skipping  through  an  open  mead-  ow.  (Cloquet  always  skipped  when  he  was  happy.  Indeed,  the  habit  had  kept  him  out  of  the  Army.)  The  thought  of  freedom  made  him  feel  simultaneously  exhilarated  and  terrified.  If  I  were  truly  free,  he  thought,  I  could  exercise  my  possibilities  to  the  fullest.  Perhaps  I  could  become  a  ventriloquist,  as  I  have  always  wanted.  Or  show  up  at  the  Louvre  in  bikini  underwear,  with  a  fake  nose  and  glasses.  He  grew  dizzy  as  he  contemplated  his  choices  and  was  about  to  faint,  when  a  jailer  opened  his  cell  door  and  told  him  that  the  real  murderer  of  Brisseau  had  just  confessed.  Cloquet  was  free  to  go.  Cloquet  sank  to  his  knees  and  kissed  the  floor  of  his  cell.  He  sang  the  &quot;Marseillaise.&quot;  He  wept!  He  danced!  Three  days  later,  he  was  back  in  jail  for  showing  up  at  the  Louvre  in  bikini  underwear,  with  a  fake  nose  and  glasses.  "