 b"A  FOOTPATH  branched  off  the  track  across  the  heath  and  vanished  like  a  wild  animal  among  the  bushes.  One  would  not  have  supposed  it  led  to  a  dwelling-one  might  not  have  noticed  it  at  all,  if  one's  attention  had  not  been  arrested  by  a  white  plastic  garbage  bin.  This  assertion  of  civilization  made  the  surrounding  landscape  more  emphatically  waste  and  solitary.  But  the  footpath,  twisting  past  thorn  brakes  and  skirting  boggy  hollows,  led  to  a  house-the  residence  of  Hugo  Tilbury,  D.Litt.,  F.R.S.L.,  named  by  him  Ortygia.  Edward,  who  knew  the  way,  walked  ahead.  It  seemed  a  never-ending  way;  I  had  plenty  of  time  to  muse  on  the  donnish  associa-  tions  of  the  name  and  why  it  carried  overtones  of  retirement,  but  it  was  too  late  to  ask.  Edward  disliked  conversa-  tion  on  country  walks,  alleging  that  one  cultivatedvoice  would  scare  every  bird,  beast,  and  butterfly  within  hearing.  He  came  to  a  pause  under  a  group  of  tattered  conifers  and  said,  &quot;There  it  is.&quot;  Before  us  was  a  neat  red  brick  cot-  tage  with  a  single  chimney  and  a  wa-  ter  butt.  In  front  of  it  was  a  plot  of  dug  ground,  with  some  cabbages  grow-  ing  unwillingly  in  the  peaty  soil,  fenced  with  wire  netting  against  rabbits.  The  cottage  looked  unwilling,  too-as  if,  being  so  up  to  date  and  rectangular,  it  felt  demeaned  by  its  situation  and  want-  ed  neighbors.  Ortygia's  door  was  open.  Edward  knocked  on  it,  and  a  reedy  voice  said,  &quot;Come  in.&quot;  We  entered  a  room  con-  taining  a  bicycle,  some  gardening  tools,  several  pairs  of  gum  boots,  a  pile  of  neatly  folded  sacks,  two  pictures  stand-  ing  face  to  the  wall,  a  narrow,  painted  wardrobe  with  a  mirrored  door,  and  a  fish  kettle.  Everything  was  clean  and  orderly,  as  though  it  had  been  made  ready  for  an  auction.  From  this  strange  anteroom  we  went  into  a  sitting  room,  where  Mr.  Tilbury  rose  from  a  wooden  armchair  and  said,  &quot;Ah,  Edward!&quot;  He  was  a  short,  sturdy  old  man  with  bushy  eyebrows  and  a  trimmed  beard.  Turn-  ing  a  bright,  unseeing  glance  on  me,  he  took  my  hand  in  a  firm  grip  and  re-  marked  that  Edward  had  brought  me,  and  thatI  was  Flora-or  was  I  Dora?  He  hoped  the  walk  had  not  tired  me.  I  praised  the  surrounding  expanse  of  heath.  &quot;A  protective  custody,&quot;  he  said.  Motioning  me  to  an  armless  wooden  chair,  he  began  to  talk  to  Edward.  They  talked.  I  sat.  Their  talk  had  the  embowering  intimacy  of  two  experts,  so  I  felt  free  to  study  the  room.  It  was  clean  and  bare  as  an  empty  snail  shell-  Mr.  Tilbury's  shell.  There  was  a  fire-  place  filled  with  fir  cones,.  Each  of  the  walls  had  a  door.  As  two  of  the  doors  were  above  floor  level,  I  supposed  they  were  cupboard  doors.  A  highly  polished  sham-antique  oak  table  was  planted  on  a  central  mat,  brushed  and  threadbare.  A  fairground  vase,  assertively  pink,  stood  on  the  windowsill  with  some  heather  in  it.  I  was  sufficiently  tired  by  my  walk  to  feel  chilled,  and,  from  feeling  chilled,  to  feel  intimidated.  To  rouse  my  spirits,  I  began  to  nurse  rebellious  thoughts.  Mr.  Tilbury,  so  perfectionist  in  clean,  bare  surfaces,  probably  ate  his  dinner  off  the  floor-if  he  ever  dined.  There  was  no  whiff  of  nourishment  in  the  air,  and  the  chimney  pot,  as  I  now  recalled,  had  no  smoke  coming  from  it.  Perhaps  he  was  an  exquisite  epicure,  and  behind  those  cupboard  doors  kept  caviar,  foie  gras,  artichoke  hearts,  ranks  of  potted  delicacies  from  Fortnum  &amp;  Mason.  This  was  too  much  to  suppose:  I  de-  cided  that  what  he  kept  in  his  cupboards  was  skeletons-skeletons  on  strings;  that  when  we  had  gone  away  he  would  fetch  them  out  and  make  them  dance  to  their  Daddy,  their  heels  clattering  on  his  bare  boards,  and  that  before  he  put  them  away  he  would  polish  their  sallow  bones.  Meanwhile  he  and  Edward  were  talking  about  calligraphy  with  never  a  sensual  thought  in  their  minds.  Taking  a  sharp  pencil  and  a  piece  of  scribbling  paper  from  his  pocket,  Mr.  Tilbury  drew  the  terminating  twiddle  by  which  one  could  infallibly  distinguish  between  the  work  of  a  French  and  a  Burgundi-  an  scribe,  and  when  Edward  said  yes,  he  saw,  Mr.  Tilbury  put  the  pencil  and  paper  back  in  his  pocket.  It  was  then  I  noticed  that  there  was  no  wastepaper  basket  in  the  room.  Yet  a  wastepaper  basket,  however  much  Mr.  Tilbury  might  dislike  its  dis-  orderliness,  would  seem  an  essential  ad-  junct  to  calligraphy.  Professional  scribes  (French,  Burgundian,  what  you  will)  must  sometimes  have  spoiled  a  copy-  duplicated  a  word,  misplaced  a  twiddle.  With  parchment,  this  was  easily  put  right:  they  scraped  off  the  error  with  a  sharp  penknife.  But  when  progress  drove  them  onto  paper,  they  must  have   wanted  to  discard  a  faulty  page-  crumple  it  up  and  throw  it  away.  Into  what,  if  not  a  wastepaper  basket?  When  did  that  essential  adjunct  to  cal-  ligraphy  come  into  use?  I  ransacked  my  memory  for  works  of  art  recording  it:  St.  Jerome  in  his  study-in  his  nu-  merous  studies-Petrarch  sonneteering,  usurers  calculating  .  .  .  Nowhere  a  trace  of  the  wastepaper  basket,  not  even  among  the  Pre-Raphaelites.  I  forgot  my  place  and  broke  into  the  conversa-  tion.  &quot;When  was  the  wastepaper  basket  invented?&quot;  Edward  emerged  from  calligraphy,  laughed,  and  said,  &quot;God  knows.&quot;  Mr.  Tilbury,  too  godlike  for  such  an  admission,  impaled  me  on  a  glare  and  said,  &quot;That  would  take  too  long  to  an-  swer,  young  lady.&quot;  I  realized  thatI  had  foxed  them  both.  Some  time  later-it  seemed  like  hours-Mr.  Tilbury  opened  one  of  his  cupboards  and  took  out  three  pony  glasses  and  a  bottle  labelled  &quot;Ketchup.&quot;  Ketchup  contained  a  homemade  sloe  gin.  He  filled  the  three  glasses  with  a  steady  hand,  impartially,  We  drank  the  stirrup  cup  and  took  our  leave.  When  we  had  gone  a  little  way,  Ed-  ward  asked  what  I  had  made  of  old  Hugo.  I  praised  his  sloe  gin,  adding  that  it  was  magnanimous  of  him  to  give  me  a  fair  share  of  it,  since  it  was  plain  he  disliked  women,  more  especially  young  women  who  went  about  with  young  men  as  though  they  were  married  to  them  but  weren't.  He  disliked  any-  thing  he  couldn't  be  sure  of,  Edward  explained.  The  Hunter's  Moon,  which  follows  on  the  Harvest  Moon,  had  ris-  en,  blackening  and  brightening  the  path.  I  could  not  believe  it  was  the  path  we  had  come  by  earlier.  Nothing  was  the  same,  till  we  came  to  the  gar-  bage  bin,  implacably  itself  even  by  moonlight.  On  the  track  across  the  heath,  where  we  could  walk  side  by  side,  it  was  as  though  we  were  freed  from  a  constraint  to  remember  the  afternoon's  visit.  We  planned  how  we  could  contrive  a  spring  holiday  in  [REDACTED].  Edward  hoped  that  Mrs.  Hooper  of  the  Fox  Inn  would  give  us  something  hot  for  supper.  Yet  that  night  he  reverted  to  Mr.  Tilbury,  speculating  about  why  he  had  secreted  himself  and  his  learning  in  that  comfortless  Ortygia.  Some  shock,  some  personal  disaster,  some  scandal  must  have  driven  him  there,  for  in  conversa-  tion  old  Hugo  revealeda  livelier  past,  when  he  was  sociable,  knew  all  sorts  of  people,  went  to  the  opera,  supped  at  the  Caf\xc3\xa9  Royal  (still  fashionable  in  those  days),  had  a  top  hat.  It  couldn't  have  been  a  religious  bolt:  Hugo  had  no  " b"more  piety  than  a  ferret.  It  couldn't  have  been  money:  Hugo  didn't  mind  what  he  spent  on  something  he  want-  ed;  he  was  poorly  off  for  wants  but  not  for  means.  And  when  it  came  to  his  private  fortune  of  scholarship,  he  had  none  of  the  usual  expert's  niggardliness;  from  theday  Edward,  following  the  clue  of  a  savage  retort  to  an  ass  showing  off  in  a  learned  periodical,  had  tracked  him  to  his  denon  the  heath,  Hugo  had  been  a  most  generous  teacher.  Exhausted  with  so  much  exercise  and  open  air,  I  kept  on  falling  asleep  and  reawakening  with  a  sense  of  guilt  that  I  should  have  takensuch  a  dislike  to  theold  man  who  had  given  Edward  so  much  pleasure.  Inone  of  my  waken-  ings  I  heard  Edward  say,  &quot;I  could  never  repay  him  for  all  he  has  done  for  me-even  if  I  could  bring  myself  to  give  him  my  Kepler  letter.&quot;  He  gave  a  deep  sigh.  The  letter  by  Johannes  Kepler  was  his  dearest  possession.  He  had  found  it  in  a  [REDACTED]  auc-  tion  room,  in  afolder  labelled  &quot;Letters  Various  and  Curious.&quot;  Mr.  Tilbury  had  approved  and  authenticated  it,  and  though  no  such  vulgar  phrase  as  &quot;stroke  of  luck&quot;  had  been  spoken,  Ed-  ward  felt  himself  considerably  ad-  vanced  in  his  mentor's  esteem.  I  was  going  to  suggest  he  might  tell  Mr.  Tilbury  that  he  meant  to  leave  it  to  him  in  his  will  when  the  sigh  was  fol-  lowed  by  a  contented  yawn.  Edward  was  asleep.  IVE  months  later  Edward  was  killed  in  acar  crash.  He  died  in-  testate.  Had  I  told  his  mother  that  he  would  have  wished  the  Kepler  letter  to  go  to  Mr.  Tilbury,  my  word  would  have  counted  for  nothing,  so  I  waited  for  the  hour  of  his  funeral,  let  myself  into  his  flat,  and  stole  it.  It  was  not  so  easy  to  part  with  it.  Not  that  I  needed  anything  to  remember  him  by,  but  his  hand  had  warmed  it,  he  had  made  the  parchment  case  that  held  it.  Eventually  I  brought  myself  to  write  to  Mr.  Til-  bury,  telling  him  of  Edward's  death,  that  he  had  meant  to  give  him  the  Kepler  letter  as  a  token  of  gratitude,  and  that  I  would  prefer  to  bring  it  rather  than  risk  it  in  the  post.  The  reply     was  brief  and  businesslike:  he  was  sorry  to  hear  of  Edward's  death,  and  would  expect  me  on  March  the  10th,  at  4  P.M.  I  took  a  taxi  from  the  local  station  tothe  Fox  Inn,  where  Mrs.  Hooper  exclaimed  and  sympathized,  and  gave  me  a  drink  out  of  hours  against  the  cold,  saying  that  the  wind  on  the  heath  would  perish  a  Londoner.  It  was  an  east  wind,  shrill  and  searching-a  spring-cleaning  wind,  I  thought.  From  time  to  time,  it  tore  rents  in  the  cloud  cover;  shadows  hur-  ried  over  me,  a  distant  stretch  of  grass  suddenly  became  a  brilliant,  watery  green.  As  I  turned  into  thepath,  I  looked  at  my  watch.  It  was  quarter  to  four.  Everything  was  going  to  plan.  The  path  that  had  been  so  much  changed  by  moonlight  was  as  much  changed  by  bursts  of  sunlight;  leafless  thorn  brakes  were  silver-plated  with  lichen,  bramble  patches  had  a  smolder-  ing  richness  of  purple  and  russet.  The  door  of  Ortygia  was  closed.  There  was  a  push  button  on  it.  I  pressed  the  button,  and  a  bell-the  kind  of  bell  that  works  by  a  battery-  " b"responded  with  a  loud  jarring  sound,  so  instantly  that  I  flinched,  as  ifit  had  spat  in  my  face.  No  onecame.  I  waited  and  rang  again,  and  again,  for  a  third  time,  and  a  fourth.  The  door  faced  east,  and  the  spring-cleaning  wind  pinned  me  to  it;  when  I  gave  it  a  push,  I  found  it  was  barred.  It  was  the  tenth  of  March,  I  had  arrived  at  the  hour  Mr.  Tilbury  had  appointed,  and  I  did  not  recollect  that  he  was  deaf.  If  not  deaf,  perhaps  he  was  dead?  If  so,  he  must  be  newly  dead,  for  his  patch  of  ground  was  freshly  weeded;  some  plucked-up  nettles  blown  against  the  wire  fence  were  barely  wilted.  He  had  weeded,  gone  indoors,  secured  his  door  against  the  wind,  opened  a  cupboard  for  a  drink  of  sloe  gin,  had  a  heart  attack,  fallen  dead,  or  palsied  with  one  eye  closed  in  a  ghastly  wink.  That  would  be  very  awkward.  I  looked  in  through  the  sitting-room  window.  The  heather  had  been  removed  from  the  fair-  ground  vase,  and  a  fire  of  fir  cones  and  neat  billets  of  wood  burned  in  the  grate.  Otherwise,  the  room  was  exactly  asI  remembered,  except  that  Mr.  Tilbury  was  not  in  it.  He  was  not  in  the  water  butt,  either-a  frantic  supposition,  but  by  now  my  imagination  was  keeping  my  courage  up-for  he  could  not  have  bolted  the  door  behind  him  before  go-  ing  out  to  drown  himself,  and  in  any  case  he  was  not  the  sort  of  man  to  act  without  due  consideration.  So  I  went  back  to  the  door,  rang  the  bell  again,  knocked,  whistled,  shouted  his  name,  felt  increasingly  silly,  wondered  if  I  would  go  away-and  waited  on.  At  twenty  to  five  I  decided  I  would  wait  till  five,  return  to  the  Fox  Inn,  and  from  there  ring  up  the  police.  Mr.  Tilbury,  I  would  say,  had  asked  me  to  be  at  his  house  at  four  o'clock  without  fail,  as  I  had  a  valuable  parcel  to  hand  over.  He  did  not  seem  to  be  there.  I  was  afraid  something  had  happened  to  him.  Etc.  A  flicker  of  amusement  warmed  me  at  the  thought  of  loosing  the  police  on  Mr.  Tilbury,  who,  if  he  retained  any  consciousness-perhaps  he  was  just  drunk,  lying  comatose  with  a  ketchup  bottle  beside  him-would  resent  this  incursion  on  his  private  life.  It  dead,  there  would  be  headlines  in  the  local  papers-MYSTERIOUS  DEATH  OF  wWODMELL  HEATH  HERMIT-and  lat-  er  a  respectful  obituary  in  the  Times.  If  drunk,  local  merriment.  Either  way,  he  would  give  pleasure.  Meanwhile,  I  had  my  er-  rand  to  attend  to.  I  was  about  to  make  a  last  attempt  on  the  bell  when  I  heard  a  sound  of  life  overhead:  a  loud,  irrepressible  sneeze,  and  another,  and  another-  the  sneezes  ofa  man  in  per-  fect  health  but  with  imper-  fect  control  of  his  nose.  I  laid  the  Kepler  letter  on  the  doorstep  and  walked  away.  A  moment  laterI  heard  the  door  open.  There  was  no  need  to  look  back;  my  mind's  eye  sawMr.  Tilbury,  D.Litt.,  F.R.S.L.,  dart  out,  seize  on  his  prey,  and  carry  it  into  his  den.  I  told  myself  as  I  hurried  up  the  path  that  it  was  the  insult  to  Edward  that  made  me  weep  tears  ofrage.  But  it  was  also  the  insult  to  my-  self.  Edward  was  unscathed,  sife  dead,  with  his  illusions  intact,  with  his  intention  carried  out,  with  nothing  to  revenge.  I  had  been  sum-  moned,  slighted,  left  to  kick  my  heels  in  the  cold,  while  Mr.  Tilbury  sat  warming  his  malevolence;  and  no  possible  revenge  was  in  my  power.  At-  taining  the  garbage  bin,  I  gave  it  a  kick.  It  answered  back  with  a  multitudinous  light  rattle.  I  took  off  the  lid.  Inside  was  an  accumulation  of  emptied  tins  that  had  contained  a  brand  of  ready-  cooked  rice  pudding  known  as  Lotus.  The  tins  were  spotlessly  clean,  as  if  a  rat  had  licked  them-a  sturdy  rat  with  a  trimmed  beard,a  rat  who  in  better  days  had  supped  at  the  Caf\xc3\xa9  Royal,  a  rat  who  for  some  reason,  some  person-  al  disaster,  some  hounding  scandal,  had  fled  to  a  hiding  place  on  the  heath.  Looking  round  on  the  darkening  land-  scape,  I  remembered  his  words:  &quot;A  protective  custody.&quot;  Even  so,  I  could  feel  no  pity  for  him. "