 b"Q-I  have  a  1966  Roosevelt  dime  that  has  turned  brown.  A  guy  in  the  office  told  me  it  was  worth  $750  and  I  now  have  it  hidden  in  a  pretty  good  place.  Where  can  I  sell  it?  A-Benny  Mann  of  Benny's  Stamp  and  Coin  Nook  informs  Action  Line  that  the  \xc2\xa91966  Brown&quot;  is  not  as  valu-  able  as  many  people  seem  to  think.  In  fact,  he  tells  us  that  some  shops  and  restaurants  will  not  even  accept  it  at  face  value.  But  if  you  take  your  dime  by  the  Coin  Nook,  in  the  Lark  Avenue  Arcade,  Benny  will  be  glad  to  examine  it  under  his  Numismascope  and  give  you  a  free  appraisal.  Q-Last  May  I  ordered  a  four-  record  album  called  &quot;Boogie  Hits  of  the  Sixties&quot;  from  Birtco  Sales  in  Nome,  [REDACTED]  They  cashed  my  check  fast  enough,  but  I  got  no  records.  I  tried  to  call  the  place  and  the  operator  said  the  phone  had  been  disconnected.  I  wrote  and  threatened  legal  action  and  they  finally  sent  me  a  one-record  album  of  Hawaiian  music.  Now  they  won't  even  answer  my  letters.  A-Your  boogie  tunes  are  on  the  way.  Action  Line  tracked  down  the  president  of  Birtco,  Al  Birt,  to  Grand  Bahama  Island,  where  he  moved  after  the  settlement  of  the  Birtco  bankruptcy  case  (the  company's  inventory  and  good  will  are  going  to  Zodiac  Studios,  of  Nash,  [REDACTED]),  and  Mr.  Birt  explained  that  your  misorder  was  probably  at-  tributable  to  an  &quot;anarchy&quot;  condition  in  the  shipping  room.  Zodiac  has  knocked  the  bugs  out  of  the  system,  he  assures  Action  Line,  and  all  orders  will  be  processed  within  seven  months  or  he'll  &quot;know  the  reason  why!&quot;  Q-We  have  just  moved  into  the  Scales  Estates.  The  house  is  O.K.,  but     &quot;Don't  ask  me  why,  but  for  some  reason  the  Administration  seems  to  be  wooing  me.&quot;  we  can't  get  a  television  picture  at  all,  and  we  can't  pick  up  anything  on  our  radio  except  for  American  Le-  gion  baseball  games  and  rodeo  news.  We  can't  even  tell  where  these  broad-  casts  are  coming  from,  what  town  or  what  state,  because  the  announcers  never  say.  A-Developer  Zane  Scales  tells  Ac-  tion  Line  that  part  of  the  Scales  Estates  lies  on  top  of  the  old  Gumbo  No.  2  mercury  mine.  This  cinnabar  deposit,  in  combination  with  the  30-story,  all-aluminum  Zane  Scales  Building,  makes  for  a  &quot;bimetallic  wave-inver-  sion  squeeze,&quot;  he  says,  and  that  some-  times  causes  freakish  reception.  Scales  hastens  to  add  that  the  condition  is  nothing  to  worry  about,  and  that  only  about  400  houses  are  affected.  Q-There  is  a  beer  joint  calle  d  Hester's  Red  Door  L  oung  e  in  the  9300  block  of  Lark  Avenue  .  It  doesn't  look  like  much  fro  m  the  outside,  bu  t  I  have  heard  s  ome  very  curio  u  s  and  interesting  disc  ussio  ns  there  at  the  bar.  I  am  told  th  at  you  can  send  off  somewhere  and  get  transcripts  of  what  i  s  sa  id  there  an  d  who  sai  d  it.  I  can't  stop  at  the  lounge  every  day  ,  you  see,  and  even  when  I  do  I  forget  most  of  the  stuff  as  soon  as  I  leave.  A-Only  weekly  summaries  of  the  conversation  at  the  Red  Door  Lounge  are  available  at  this  time.  Send  one  dol-  lar  and  a  stamped,  self-addressed  en-  velope  to  Box  202,  Five  Points  Station,  and  ask  for  Hester's  White  Letter.  Hester  Willis  tells  Action  Line  that  complete  daily  transcripts  (Hester's  Red  Letter)  have  been  discontinued  because  of  soaring  stenographic  and  printing  costs.  Many  subscribers  actual-  ly  prefer  the  summary,  she  says,  par-  ticularly  during  football  season,  when  there  is  necessarily  a  lot  of  repetitive  matter.  Hester  hastened  to  assure  Ac-  tion  Line  that  all  the  major  points  of  all  the  discussions  are  included  in  the  White  Letter,  as  well  as  many  of  the  humorous  sallies.  Sorry,  no  names.  The  speaking  parties  cannot  be  identified  beyond  such  tags  as  &quot;fat  lawyer,&quot;  &quot;the  old  guy  from  Texarkana,&quot;  and  &quot;re-  tired  nurse.&quot;  Q-Can  you  put  me  in  touch  with  a  Japanese  napkin-folding  club?  A-Not  with  a  club  as  such,  but  you  might  try  calling  Meg  Sparks  at  696-  2440.  Meg  holds  a  brown  belt  in  the  sushi  school  of  folding,  and  she  takes  a  few  students  along  as  her  time  per-  mits.  Beginner  napkin  kits  ($15.95)  " b"are  available  at  the  International  House  of  Napkins,  on  Victory  Street,  across  from  Barling  Park.  Q-What  happened  with  the  Sa-  lute  to  [REDACTED]  thing  this  year?  We  drove  out  there  Saturday  night  and  the  place  was  dark.  If  they  are  going  to  cancel  these  things  at  the  last  minute,  the  least  they  can  do  is  let  somebody  know  about  it.  We  had  a  busload  of  very  disappointed  kids,  some  of  them  crying.  A-Drove  out  where?  The  Salute  to  [REDACTED]  rally  was  held  Saturday  night  at  Five  Points  Stadium,  where  it  has  al-  ways  been  held.  The  program  lasted  seven  hours  and  the  stadium  lights  could  be  seen  for  thirteen  miles.  There  were  eighty-one  marching  bands  in  at-  tendance,  and  when  they  played  the  finale  the  ground  shook  and  win-  dows  were  broken  almost  a  mile  away  in  the  Town  and  Country  Shopping  Center.  Q-I  joined  the  Apollo  Health  Spa  on  June  21st,  signing  a  thirty-year  con-  tract.  It  was  their  &quot;Let's  Get  Acquaint-  ed&quot;  deal.  I  have  attended  four  sessions  at  the  place  and  I  am  not  satisfied  with  either  their  beef-up  program  or  their  weight-loss  program,  which  seem  to  be  identical,  by  the  way.  The  equipment  is  mostly  just  elastic  straps  that  you  pull.  No  matter  how  early  you  get  there,  the  lead  shoes  are  always  in  use.  I  want  out,  but  they  say  they  will  have  to  &quot;spank&quot;  me  if  I  don't  meet  all  the  terms  of  the  contract.  Those  people  are  not  from  around  here  and  I  don't  know  what  they  mean  exactly,  whether  it  is  NS  just  their  way  of  talking  or  what.  That's  all  they  will  say.  A-Action  Line  will  say  it  once  again:  Never  sign  any  document  until  you  have  read  it  carefully!  Don't  be  pushed!  So  much  for  the  scolding.  You  will  be  interested  to  learn  that  the  Attorney  General's  office  is  currently  investigating  a  number  of  spanking  threats  alleged  to  have  been  made  by  the  sales  staff  at  Apollo.  Ron  Rambo,  the  Apollo  Spa's  prexy  and  a  former  Mr.  [REDACTED],  tells  Action  Line  that  he,  too,  is  looking  into  the  matter  and  that  he  has  his  eye  on  &quot;one  or  two  bad  apples.&quot;  As  for  the  equipment,  he  says  your  cut-rate  membership  plan  does  not  entitle  you  to  the  use  of  the  Hell  Boots,  the  Rambo  Bars,  the  Olympic  Tubs,  or  the  Squirrel  Cage  except  by  appointment.  Q-Help!  I  live  on  Railroad  Street  and  I  have  been  driving  to  work  for  many  years  by  way  of  Lark  Avenue.  Now  they  have  put  up  a  &quot;NO  LEFT  TURN&quot;  sign  at  the  intersection  of  Rail-  road  and  Lark  and  I  have  to  turn  right  and  go  all  the  way  to  the  airport  be-  fore  I  can  make  a  U-turn  and  double  back.  This  means  I  have  to  get  up  in  the  dark  every  morning  to  allow  for  the  long  drive.  A-You  don't  say  where  you  work.  If  it's  downtown,  then  why  not  forget  Lark  and  stay  on  Railroad  until  you  reach  Gully,  which  has  a  protected  left  turn.  You  may  not  know  it,  but  Gully  is  now  one-way  going  east  all  the  way  to  Five  Points,  where  you  can  take  the  dogleg  around  Barling  Park  (watch  for  slowpokes  in  the  old  people's  cross-  ing)  and  onto  Victory.  Bear  right  over  the  viaduct  to  twenty-seventh  and  then  hang  a  left  at  the  second  stoplight  and  go  four  blocks  to  the  dead  end  at  Lagrange.  Take  Lagrange  as  far  as  the  zoo  (stay  in  the  right  lane),  and  from  there  it's  a  straight  shot  to  the  Hopper  Expressway  and  the  Rotifer  [REDACTED].  Q-My  science  teacher  told  me  to  write  a  paper  on  the  &quot;detective  ants&quot;  of  Ceylon,  and  I  can't  find  out  any-  thing  about  these  ants.  Don't  tell  me  to  go  to  the  library,  because  I've  al-  ready  been  there.  A-There  are  no  ants  in  Ceylon.  Your  teacher  may  bethinking  of  the  &quot;journalist  ants&quot;  of  central  Burma.  These  bright-red  insects  grow  to  a  maximum  length  of  one-quarter  inch,  and  they  are  tireless  workers,  scurrying  about  on  the  forest  floor  and  gathering  tiny  facts,  which  they  store  in  their  abdominal  sacs.  When  the  sacs  are  filled,  they  coat  these  facts  with  a  kind  of  nacreous  glaze  and  exchange  them  for  bits  of  yellow  wax  manufactured  by  the  smaller  and  slower  &quot;wax  ants.&quot;  The  journalist  ants  burrow  extensive  tunnels  and  galleries  beneath  Burmese  villages,  and  the  villagers,  reclining  at  night  on  their  straw  mats,  can  often  hear  a  steady  hum  from  the  earth.  This  hum  is  believed  to  be  the  ants  sifting  fine  particles  of  information  with  their  feelers  in  the  dark.  Diminutive  grunts  can  sometimes  be  heard,  too,  but  these  are  thought  to  come  not  from  the  journalist  ants  but  from  their  albino  slaves,  the  &quot;butting  dwarf  ants,&quot;  who  spend  their  entire  lives  tamping  wax  into  tiny  storage  chambers  with  their  heads.  "