 b"SUDDENLY,  turning  a  corner,  I ran  into  a  unitof  the  Swed-  ish  Army.  Their  vehicles  were  parked  in  orderly  rows  and  filled  the  street,  mostly  six-by-sixes  and  jeeps,  an  occasional  A.P.C.,  all  painted  a  sand  color  quite  different  from  the  American  Army's  dark  green.  To  the  left  of  the  vehicles,  on  a  big  school  playground,  they  had  set  up  two-man  tents  of  the  same  sand  color,  and  the  soldiers,  blond  red-faced  men,  lounged  about  among  the  tents,  making  not  much  noise.  It  was  strange  to  see  them  there.  I  assumed  they  were  on  their  way  to  some  sort  of  joint  maneuvers  with  our  own  troops.  But  it  was  strange  to  see  them  there.  I  began  talking  to  a  lieutenant,  a  young,  pleasant  man;  he  showed  me  a  portable  chess  clock  he'd  made  himself,  which  was  for  some  reason  covered  in  matchstick  bamboo,  painted  purple.  I  told  him  I  was  building  an  addition  to  the  rear  of  my  house,  as  a  matter  of  fact  I  had  with  me  a  carpenter's  level  I'd  just  bought,  and  I  showed  him  that.  He  said  he  had  some  free  time,  and  asked  if  I  needed  help.  I  suggested  that  probably  his  unit  would  be  moving  out  fairly  soon,  but  he  waved  a  hand  to  in-  dicate  that  their  departure  was  not  im-  minent.  He  seemed  genuinely  interest-  ed  in  assisting  me,  so  I  accepted.  His  name  was  Bengt  and  he  was  from  Uppsala.  I'd  been  there  so  we  talked  about  Uppsala,  then  about  [REDACTED]  and  Bornholm  and  Malmdg.  I  asked  him  if  he  knew  the  work  of  the  Swedish  poet  Bodil  Malmsten;  he  didn't.  My  house  (not  really  mine,  my  sister's,  but  I  lived  there  and  paid  rent)  wasn't  far  away.  We  stood  in  the  garden  looking  up  at  the  rear  windows  on  the  parlor  floor;  I  was  putting  new  ones  in.  So  I  climbed  the  ladder  and  he  began  handing  me  up  one  of  the  rather  heavy  prefab  window  frames,  and  my  ham-  mer  slid  from  the  top  of  the  ladder  and  fell  and  smashed  into  his  chess  clock,  which  he'd  carefully  placed  on  the  ground,  against  the  wall.  I  apologized  pro-  fusely,  and  Bengt  told  me  not  to  worry,  it  didn't  matter,  but  he  kept  shaking  the  chess  clock  and  turning  it  over  in  his  hands,  trying  to  bring  it  to  life.  I  rushed  down  the  lad-  der  and  apologized  again,  and  looked  at  it  myself.  Both  dials  were  shattered  and  part  of  the  purple  matchstick  casing  had  come  off.  He  said  again  not  to  worry,  he  could  fix  it,  and  that  we  should  get  on  with  the  job.  After  a  while,  Bengt  was  up  on  the  ladder  tacking  the  new  frames  to  the  two-by-fours  with  sixteen-penny  nails.  He  was  very  skillful  and  the  work  was  going  quickly;  I  was  standing  in  the  garden  steadying  the  ladder  as  he  was  sometimes  required  to  lean  out  rather  far.  He  slipped  and  tried  to  recover,  and  bashed  his  face  against  the  wall  and  broke  his  nose.  He  stood  in  the  garden  holding  his  nosewith  both  hands,  the  hands  clasped  as  if  in  prayer  over  his  nose.  I  apolo-  gized  profusely.  I  ran  into  the  house  and  got  some  ice  cubes  and  paper  towels  and  told  him  I'd  take  him  to  the  hospital  right  away  but  he  shook  his  head  and  said  no,  they  had  doctors  of  their  own.  I  wanted  to  do  something  for  him  so  I  took  him  in  and  sat  him  down  and  cooked  him  some  of  my  fried  chicken,  which  is  rather  well  known  al-  though  the  secret  isn't  much  of  a  secret-just  lots  of  lemon-pepper  mari-  nade  and  then  squeezing  fresh  lemon  juice  over  it  just  before  serving.  I  could  see  he  was  really  very  discouraged  about  his  nose  and  I  had  to  keep  giving  him  fresh  paper  towels  but  he  compli-  mented  me  very  highly  on  the  chicken  and  gave  me  a  Swedish  recipe  for  chicken  stuffed  with  parsley  and  butter  and  stewed,  which  I  wrote  down.  Then  Bengt  told  me  various  things  about  the  Swedish  Army.  He  said  that  it  was  a  tough  army  and  a  sober  one,  but  small;  that  everybody  in  the  Army  pretty  well  knew  everybody  else,  and  that  they  kept  their  Saab  jets  in  deep  caves  that  had  been  dug  in  the  moun-  tains,  so  that  if  there  was  a  war  noth-  ing  could  happen  to  them.  He  said  that  the  part  I'd  seen  was  just  his  com-  pany;  there  were  two  more,  plus  a  heavy-weapons  company,  bivouacking  at  various  spots  in  the  city,  making  up  a  full  battalion.  He  said  the  soldiers  were  mostly  Lutherans,  with  a  few  Baptists  and  Pentecostals,  and  that  drugs  were  not  a  problem  but  that  peo-  ple  sometimes  overslept,  driving  the  sergeants  crazy.  He  said  that  the  Swed-  ish  Army  was  thought  to  have  the  best  weapons  in  the  world,  and  that  they  kept  them  very  clean.  He  said  that  he  probably  didn't  have  to  name  their  principal  potential  enemy,  because  I  knew  it  already,  and  that  the  Army-  wide  favorite  musical  group  was  ABBA,  which  could  sometimes  be  seen  on  American  television  late  at  night.  By  now  the  table  was  full  of  bloody     " b"paper  towels  and  some  blood  had  gotten  on  his  camouflage  suit,  which  was  in  three  shades  of  green  and  brown.  Ab-  ruptly,  with  a  manly  gesture,  Bengt  informed  me  that  he  had  fallen  in  love  with  my  sister.  I  said  that  was  very  curious,  in  that  he  had  never  met  her.  &quot;That  is  no  difficulty,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Ican  see  by  looking  around  this  house  what  kind  of  a  woman  she  must  be.  Very  tall,  is  she  not?  And  red  hair,  is  that  not  true?&quot;  He  went  on  describing  my  sister,  whose  name  is  Catherine,  with  a  disturbing  accuracy  and  increasing  enthusiasm,  correctly  identifying  her  as  a  teacher  and  furthermore  a  teacher  of  painting.  &quot;These  are  hers,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;they  must  be,&quot;  and  rose  to  inspect  some  oils  in  Kulicke  frames  on  the  walls.  &quot;I  knew  it.  From  these,  dear  friend,  a  great  deal  can  be  known  of  the  temperament  of  the  painter,  his  or  her  essential  spirit.  Iwill  divorce  my  wife  immediately,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;and  marry  Catherine  as  soon  as  it  is  legally  possible.&quot;  &quot;You're  already  married?&quot;  I  said,  and  he  hung  his  head  and  LJ  &amp;  admitted  yes,  that  it  was  so.  But  in  [REDACTED],  he  said,  many  people  were  married  to  each  other  who,  for  one  reason  or  another,  no  longer  loved  each  other.I  said  that  happened  in  our  own  country  too,  many  cases  personal-  ly  known  to  me,  and  that  if  he  wished  to  marry  Catherine  I  would  not  stand  in  his  way  but  would,  on  the  contrary,  do  everything  in  my  power  to  further  the  project.  At  this  moment  the  bell  rang;  I  answered  it  and  Catherine  en-  tered  and  introduced  us  to  her  new  husband,  Richard.  (But  difficulties  often  enhance  one's  perception  of  the  place  in  which  one  en-  counters  them.  ..  .)  I  took  Bengt  back  to  his  unit  in  a  cab,  one  hand  clutching  his  nose,  the  other  his  chest,  the  remains  of  his  chess  clock  in  his  lap.  We  got  there  justin  time,  a  review  was  in  progress,  the  King  of  [REDACTED]  waspresent-a  hand-  some  young  man  in  dress  uniform  with  a  silver  sword,  surrounded  by  aides  similarly  clad.  A  crowd  had  gathered  and  Bengt's  company  paraded  by,  look-  ing  vastly  trim  and  efficient  in  their  polished  boots  and  red  berets,  and  a  very  pretty  little  girl  came  out  of  the  crowd  and  shyly  handed  the  King  a  small  bouquet  of  flowers.  He  bent  gra-  ciously  to  accept  them,  beautiful  small  yellow  roses,  and  a  43616e616461Mountain-  spotted-fever  tick  leaped  from  a  rose  and  bit  him  on  thecheek.  I  was  hor-  rified,  and  the  King  slapped  his  cheek  and  swore  that  the  Swedish  Army  would  never  visit  us  again.  "