 b"ON  the  dedication  page  of  the  rebellion,  we  see  the  words  &quot;'To  Clementine.&quot;  A  fine  sentiment,  miscellaneous  organ  music  next,  and,  turning  several  pages,  massed  orange  flags  at  the  head  of  the  column.  This  will  not  be  easy,  but  neither  will  it  be  hard.  Good  will  is  everywhere,  and  the  lighthearted  song  of  the  gon-  doliers  is  heard  in  the  distance.  -Yes,  success  is  everything.  Moral-  ly  important  as  well  as  useful  in  a  prac-  tical  way.  -What  have  the  rebels  captured  thus  far?  One  zoo,  not  our  best  zoo,  and  a  cemetery.  The  rebels  have  en-  tered  the  cages  of  the  tamer  animals  and  are  playing  with  them,  gently.  -Things  can  get  better,  and  in  my  opinion  will.  -Their  Graves  Registration  proce-  dures  are  scrupulous-accurate  and  fair.  --There's  more  to  it  than  playing  guitars  and  clapping  along.  Although  that  frequently  gets  people  in  the  mood.  -Their  methods  are  direct,  not  sub-  tle.  Dissolution,leaching,  sandblasting,  cracking  and  melting  of  fireproof  doors,  condemnation,  water  damage,  slide  presentations,  clamps  and  buckles.  -And  skepticism,  although  abso-  lutely  necessary,  leads  to  not  very  much.  -The  rebels  have  eaten  all  the  grass  on  the  spacious  lawns  surrounding  the  President's  heart.  That  vast  organ,  the  President's  heart,  beats  now  on  a  bald  plain.  -It  depends  on  what  you  want  to  do.  Sometimes  people  don't  know.  I  mean,  don't  know  even  that.  -Clementine  is  thought  to  be  one  of  the  great  rebel  leaders  of  the  half-  century.  Her  hat  has  four  cockades.  -I  loved  her  for  a  while.  Then,  it  stopped.  -Rebel  T-shirts,  camou-  flaged  as  ordinary  T-shirts  by  an  intense  whiteness  no  eye  can  pierce,  are  worn  everywhere.  -I  don't  know  why  it  stopped,  it  just  stopped.  That's  happened  several  times.  Is  something  wrong  with  me?  -Closely  supervised  voting  in  the  other  cantons  produced  results  clearly  favorable  to  neither  faction,  but  rather  a  sort  of  generalized  approbation  which  could  beappropriated  by  anyone  who  had  need  of  it.  -A  greater  concentration  on  one  person  than  you  normally  find.  Then,  zip.  -Three  or  four  photographs  of  the  rebel  generals,  tinted  glasses,  blond  locks  blowing  in  the  wind,  havebeen     released  to  the  world  press,in  billboard  size.  -Whenever  I  go  there,  on  the  Metroliner,  I  begin  quietly  thinking  about  how  to  help:  better  planning,  more  careful  management,  a  more  equal  distribution  of  income,  educa-  tion.  Or  something  new.  -There  havebeen  mistakes.  No  at-  tempt  was  made  to  seize  Broadcasting  House-a  fundamental  error.  The  Household  Cavalry  was  not  subverted,  discontented  junior  officers  of  the  regu-  lar  forces  were  not  sought  out  and  of-  fered  promotions,  or  money.  ...  -Yes,  an  afternoon  on  the  links!  I'd  never  been  out  there  before-so  green  and  full  of  holes  and  flags.  I'm  afraid  we  got  in  the  way,  people  were  shouting  at  us  to  get  out  of  the  way.  We  had  thought  they'd  let  us  just  stand  there  and  look  or  walk  around  and  look,  but  apparently  that's  not  done.  So  we  went  to  the  pro  shop  and  rented  some  clubs  and  bags,  and  put  the  bags  on  our  shoulders,  and  that  got  us  by  for  a  while.  We  walked  around  with  our  clubs  and  bags,  enjoying  the  cool  green  and  the  bright,  attractive  sports,  wear  of  the  other  participants.  That  helped  some,  but  we  were  still  under  some  mysterious  system  of  rules  we  didn't  understand,  always  in  the  wrong  place  at  the  wrong  time,  it  seemed,  yelled  at  and  bumping  into  people.  So  finally  we  said  to  hell  with  it  and  left  the  links;  we  didn't  want  to  spoil  any-  body's  fun,  so  we  took  the  bus  back  to  town,  first  returning  the  clubs  and  bags  to  the  pro  shop.  Next,  we  will  trythe  jai-alai  courts  and  soccer  fields,  of  which  we  have  heard  the  most  en-  couraging  things.  -Blocking  forces  were  not  provided  to  isolate  the  Residence.  Diversions  were  not  created  to  draw  off  key  units.  The  airports  were  not  invested  nor  were  the  se-  curity  services  neutralized.  Im-  portant  civilians  were  not  cul-  tivated  and  won  over,  and  propaganda  was  neglected.  Photographs  of  the  rebel  leaders  were  distributed  but  these  &quot;leaders&quot;  were  actors,  selected  for  their  immense  foreheads  and  chins  and  blond,  flowing  locks.  -Yes,  they  pulled  some  pretty  cute  tricks.  I  had  to  laugh,  sometimes,  won-  dering:  What  has  this  to  do  with  you  and  me?  Our  frontiers  are  the  marble  lobbies  of  these  buildings.  True,  mor-  tar  pits  ring  the  elevator  banks  but  these  must  be  seen  as  friendly,  help-  ful  gestures  toward  certification  of  the  crisis.  -The  present  goal  of  the  individual  in  group  enterprises  is  to  avoid  domi-  nance;  leadership  is  felt  to  bea  charac-  ter  disorder,  Clementine  has  not  heard  this  news,  and  thus  invariably  falls  for-  ward,  intothe  thickets  of  closure.  -Well,  maybe  so.  When  I  knew  her  she  was  just  an  ordinary  woman-  wonderful,  of  course,  but  not  transfig-  ured.  -The  black  population  has  steered  clear  of  taking  sides,  sits  home  and  plays,  over  and  over,  the  sexy  part  of  &quot;Tristan  and  Isolde.&quot;  -We  feel  only  twenty-five  per  cent  of  what  we  ought  to  feel,  according  to  recent  findings.  I  know  that  &quot;ought&quot;  is  a  loaded  word,  in  this  context.  -Are  the  great  bells  of  the  cathe-  drals  an  impoverishment  of  the  folk  (on  one  level)  or  an  enrichment  of  the  folk  (on  another  level),  and  how  are  these  values  to  be  weighted,  how  recon-  ciled   -They  won't  do  anything  for  the  poor  people,  no  matter  who  gets  in,  and  that's  a  fact.  I  wonder  if  they  can.  -The  raid  on  the  okra  fields  was  not  a  success;  the  rebel  answering  serv-  ice  just  whistles.  -There's  sucha  thing  as  a  flash  point.  But  sometimes  you  can't  find  it,  even  when  you  know  how.  -Our  pride  in  having  a  rebellion  of  our  own,  even  a  faint,  rather  ill-or-  ganized  one,  has  turned  us  once  again  toward  the  kinds  of  questions  that  de-  serve  serious  attention.  -Is  something  wrong  with  me?  I'm  not  complaining,  just  asking.  We  all  have  our  work,  it's  the  small  scale  that  disturbs.  Maybe  twenty-five  per  cent  is  high.  They  say  he's  one  of  the  best,  but  most  people  don't  need  his  specialty  very  often.  Of  course,  I  admit  that  when  they  need  it  they  need  it.  Cattle  too  dream  of  death,  and  are  afraid  of  it.  I  don't  mean  that  as  an  excuse.  I  did  love  her  for  a  while;  I  remember.  His  strategy  is  to  be  cheer-  ful  without  being  optimistic;  I'll  go  along  with  that.  Maybe  we  ought  to  have  another  election.  The  police  are  never  happier  than  on  Election  Day,  when  their  relationto  the  citizens  as-  sumes  a  calm,  even  jokey  tone.  They  are  allowed  to  take  off  their  hats.  Fetching  coffee  in  paper  cups  for  the  poll  watchers,  or  being  fetched  coffee  by  them,  they  stand  chest  out  not  too  close  to  the  voting  machines  in  fresh-  pressed  uniforms,  spit-polished  boots.  Bold  sergeants  arrive  and  depart  in  pa-  trol  cars,  or  dash  about  making  ar-  rangements,  and  only  the  plainclothes-  men  are  lonely.  -As  a  magician  works  with  the  unique  compressibility  of  doves,  finding  some,  losing  others  in  the  same  silk  " b"foulard,  so  the  rebels  fold  scratchy,  re-  laxed  meanings  into  their  smallest  ac-  tions.  -I  don't  quarrel  with  their  right  to  do  it.  It's  the  means  I'm  worried  about.  --Self-criticism  sessions  were  held,  but  these  produced  more  criticism  than  could  usefully  be  absorbed  or  accommo-  dated.  --I  decided  that  something  is  not  wrong  with  me.  -The  rebels  have  failed  to  make  promises.  Promises  are,  perhaps,  the  nut  of  the  matter.  Had  they  promised  ev-  eryone  free  groceries,  for  example,  or  one  night  of  love,  then  their  efforts  might  have-  -Yes,  success  is  everything.  Failure  is  more  common.  Most  achieve  a  sort  of  middling  thing,  but  fortunately  one's  situation  is  always  blurred,  you  never  know  absolutely  quite  where  you  are.  This  allows,  if  not  peace  of  mind,  on-  going  attention  to  other  aspects  of  existence.  -But  even  a  poor  rebellion  has  its  glorious  moments.  Let  me  list  some  of  them.  When  the  flag  fell  over,  and  Clem  picked  it  up.  When  the  high  priest  smeared  himself  all  over  with  hare's  fat  and  was  attacked  by  red  dogs,  and  Clem  scared  them  off  with  her  bomb.  When  it  was  discovered  that  all  of  the  drumsticks  had  been  left  back  at  the  base,  and  Clem  fashioned  new  ones  from  ordinary  dowels,  bought  at  the  hardware  store.  When  gluttons  made  the  line  break  and  waver,  and  Clem  stopped  it  by  stamping  her  foot,  again  and  again  and  again.  -When  she  gets  back  from  the  hills,  I  intend  to  call  her  up.  It's  worth  a  try.  -Distant  fingers  from  the  rebel  forces  are  raised  in  fond  salute.  -The  rebel  brigades  are  reading  Leskov's  &quot;Why  Are  Books  Expensive  in  Kiev?&quot;  -Three  rebellions  ago,  the  air  was  fresher.  The  soft  pasting  noises  of  the  rebel  billposters  remind  us  of  Okla-  homa,  where  everything  is  still  the  same. "