 b"THE  lecture  had  decidedly  not  gone  well.  It  was  about  form,  but  the  lecture  itself  had  no  form.  And  it  seemed  to  him  now,  in  his  room  at  the  faculty  club,  that  his  present  life  was  formless,  too.  It  didn't  coalesce  around  any  point.  It  had  no  nucleus,  no  core.  It  seemed  ready  to  fall  apart.  And  he  wanted  it  to  cohere,  to  cohere  the  way  an  Osage  orange  cohered-so  tight  you  could  hardly  nick  it  with  your  fingernail.  He  had  once  picked  one  from  a  tree  along  the  edge  of  a  road  in  [REDACTED],  and  what  a  beauty  it  was.  Nothing  was  more  compact.  The  urge  to  cohere  was  in  him-which  was  something-but  he  had  nothing  to  cling  to.  &quot;What  about  your  family?&quot;  he  asked  himself.  He  was  married.  He  had  three  children,  a  house  on  the  coast  of  New  England.  He  had  been  away  three  weeks  and  was  to  be  away  four  more,  teaching,  giving  lectures.  They  felt  so  loose,  his  family  ties.  To  test  them,  he  picked  up  the  telephone.  Its  wire  seemed  something  that  might  reconnect  him.  He  dialled  his  home  number  collect.  Michael,  his  little  boy,  ten,  answered.  &quot;Hi,  Dad,&quot;  he  said,  after  accepting  the  call.  &quot;Is  there  any  snow  there?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  about  a  foot.&quot;  &quot;Here  it's  almost  all  melted.&quot;     He  remembered  phoning  home  long  distance  a  year  or  two  ago,  and  Mi-  chael  had  shouted  so  the  whole  house  would  hear  him,  &quot;It's  Daddy,  it's  Daddy.  Hey,  Daddy's  on  the  phone,&quot;  a  response  that  alone  was  worth  the  call.  Today  conversation  was  a  little  diffi-  cult.  Perhaps  he  wanted  to  return  to  his  TV  program.  &quot;Get  me  Mama,  will  you?&quot;  he  said  to  Michael.  &quot;Mama,  Daddy's  on  the  phone,&quot;  he  heard  him  say,  and  soon  his  wife  was  on  the  line. &quot;Hello.&quot;  &quot;Ha,  hello,  how  are  you?&quot;  he  asked  warmly.  &quot;I'm  all  right,  how  are  you?&quot;  she  replied.  How  matter-of-fact  her  voice  was,  he  couldn't  help  thinking-as  if  he  were  calling  from  a  mile  away.  He  was  a  thousand  miles  away,  and  he  hadn't  called  inat  least  a  week.  &quot;Well,  how  are  things?&quot;  &quot;'They  are  all  right.  How  are  the  lectures?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  so-so.  Any  mail?&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cNO.\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;I  never  got  those  three  letters  you  said  you  mailed  me.  Are  you  sure  you  sent  them?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  of  course  I'm  sure.  I  sent  them  with  a  book.  You  must  have  thrown  them  away  with  the  wrapping.  Of  course  I  sent  them.  Don'tblame  me.&quot;  Even  on  the  telephone,  he  thought.  He  had  hoped  it  might  serve  to  bring  him  nearer,  buthe  felt  still  farther  away,  and  he  wished  he  hadn't  called.  'The  telephone  itself  irked  him.  He  looked  at  its  little  cord  distrustfully.  It  wasn't  his  sort  of  instrument-the  intermittent,  interrupting  ring,  and  the  way  one  tended  to  avoid,  lest  they  be  taken  for  a  poor  connection,  the  silent  pauses  that  he  liked  so  much  and  were  perhaps  the  best  part  of  conversation.  It  was  worse  than  talking  in  the  dark,  because  the  dark  at  least  allowed  for  touch,  whereas  the  telephone  didn't  let  you  either  see  or  touch  the  other  party  and  made  him  feel  bereft  of  two  of  his  senses.  Then  she  said,  &quot;I  didn't  know  you  bought  the  painting.&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  he  said.  She  was  talking  about  a  small,  inexpensive  painting  that  he  had  brought  home  just  before  leav-  ing.  He  had  bought  it  from  a  woman,  a  painter  he  knew,  because  he  liked  it  but  also  because  he  liked  her.  In  fact,  after  meeting  her  a  few  times,  he  felt  committed  to  buy  it.  He  had  wanted  to  pay  for  it  in  cash,so  his  wife  wouldn't  see  the  cancelled  check,  and  he  had  gone  to  her  studio  with  a  hun-  dred-dollar  bill.  But  she  wanted  a  check,  which,  with  some  misgiving,  he  wrote  out  for  her.  To  his  wife,  he  said  that  the  painting  had  been  given  to  him.  &quot;Lies  have  short  legs,&quot;  they  say  in  4974616c79,  and  his  was  soon  uncovered--  not  through  the  check,  however.  &quot;She  came  here  to  pick  it  up,&quot;  his  wife  told  him.  &quot;'The  painting  your  husband  bought'  was  how  she  described  it.  She's  going  to  take  a  picture  of  it  for  a  slide.  Couldn't  you  have  chosen  a  different  one?  All  those  grays.  I  don't  like  it,&quot;  she  added.  She  had  liked  it  well  enough,  though,  when  he  had  brought  it  home.  To  see  color  in  gray-that  was  being  a  painter,  he  thought.  &quot;I  liked  it,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Oh,&quot;  she  said,  and  dropped  the  matter.  But  it  reminded  him  of  a  simi-  lar  conversation  he  had  gone  through  before,  in  which  another  painting  and  another  woman  were  involved.  And  the  repetitiousness  of  life,  the  feeling  that  nothing  really  new  happened  to  him  anymore,  vexed  him.  Then  his  wife  said,  &quot;Bill  is  coming  to  dinner  tomorrow  night.&quot;  Her  letting  him  know  that  she  also  had  a  friend,  was,  he  knew,  an  indirect  answer  to  his  purchase.  But  he  was  " b"glad  to  hear  it.  If  only  she  had  an  af-  fair,  then  he  might  feel  less  guilty,  but  she  wasn't  likely  to,  nor  was  Bill.  &quot;Oh,&quot;  he  said  to  make  her  feel  happy,  and  there  the  conversation  end-  ed.  He  felt  spent.  FOR  dinner  that  night  he  went  to  a  restaurant  that  catered  mainly  to  students,  on  a  busy  street  near  the  faculty  club.  The  waitresses  were  what  drew  him  there-a  German  girl,  in  particular,  who  had  come  to  [REDACTED]  to  improve  her  English  and  was  due  to  go  back  home  in  a  few  months.  Sometimes,  before  going  in,  he  would  look  for  her  through  the  restaurant's  large  picture  window,  but,  often,  even  if  he  didn't  see  her  he  would  enter,  thinking  she  might  be  in  the  kitchen,  temporarily  out  of  sight.  He  who  was  supposed  to  be  thinking  about  Form.  Yet  she  was  form  personified,  so  agile  as  she  moved  between  the  tables,  al-  ways  walking  at  a  cheerful  pace,  as  if  to  atune,  and  smiling  with  such  genuine  pleasure  when  she  saw  him.  &quot;This  is  a  nice  place,&quot;  he  had  said  the  first  time  he  went  there.  &quot;There's  life  here.  Not  like  the  coffee  shop  across  the  street.&quot;  &quot;'Yes,  but  the  owner  is  no  good,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Why?&quot;He  shouts;  he  yells  at  me.  He  doesn't  like  me.&quot;  &quot;Maybe  he  likes  you  too  much.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  no,&quot;  she  said  after  a  moment  in  which  she  didn't  seem  to  have  un-  derstood,  and  laughed  and  hurried  away.  Sometimes  she  lingered  at  his  table,  leaning  against  a  chair.  &quot;I  wish  you  could  sit  down,&quot;  he  said  one  night.  &quot;I  wish  I  could,  too,&quot;  she  said,  and  ran,  adding  something  about  the  own-  er  &quot;catching&quot;  her.  He  didn't  even  know  her  name.  He  tried  to  avoid  what  he  considered  pass-  port  questions,  and  he  wouldn't  have  known  that  she  was  German  if  he  hadn't  overheard  her  talking  to  a  man  at  the  next  table;  her  accent  was  almost  nonexistent.  No,  his  conversa-  tion  was  made  up  mainly  of  compli-  ments,  all  of  which  were  quite  sincere.  Each  time  she  came  to  his  table,  he  had  a  new  one  for  her:  &quot;Your  presence  comes  to  me  as  a  blessing;&quot;  or,  since  she  told  him  she  had  studied  art  history  in  [REDACTED],  inpraise  of  the  pleated  blouse  she  wore,  &quot;That's  the  kind  of  blouse  that  Botticelli  dressed  his  angels  in;&quot;  or,  &quot;I  wish  I  could  wait  on  you  and  not  the  other  way  around;&quot;  or,  &quot;When  you  left,  it  was  as  if  the  moon  had  set.&quot;   He  felt  self-conscious-self-con-  scious,  and  ridiculous  sometimes-usu-  ally  the  oldest  man  in  the  place,  his  hair  graying,  talking  like  that  to  this  young  woman.  As  if  he  had  a  chance.  But  even  if  he  had  been  younger,  nothing  would  have  come  of  it,  he  thought,  and  an  incident  from  the  past  came  to  his  mind.  At  Babbington's  tea-  room,  in  Rome,  when  he  was  in  his  mid-twenties,  how  many  times  he  had  gone  in,  justto  talk  to  the  waitress  who  worked  there.  She  was  Danish,  he  remembered,  a  dreamy  [REDACTED],  and  there  had  been  little  more  than  an  exchange  of  glances.  Less  even  than  now.  And  yet  how  easily  some  succeeded.  The  last  time  he  had  been  to  this  restaurant,  for  instance,  a  stu-  dent  had  stood  with  the  German  girl  in  the  passage  just  a  few  feet  from  his  table,  and  they  had  whispered  to  each  other,  their  lips  so  close  they  seemed  almost  to  touch.  Tonight,  on  his  way  to  the  restau-  rant  again,  he  was  thinking  of  a  col-  league  who  had  made  a  face  when  he  had  mentioned  that  he  atethere.  &quot;That's  awful,&quot;  someone  else  had  said.  But  to  him  it  was  the  best  in  town,  and  he  would  much  rather  go  there  than  be  invited  to  the  most  sumptuous  dinner.  In  fact,  when  he  was  invited  and  he  accepted,  as  he  usually  did,  he  swore  to  himself  and  wished  he  had  the  ability  or  quickness  to  make  up  a  plausible  excuse.  Unfortunately,  when  he  arrived  at  the  restaurant  she  wasn't  there.  Another  girl  came  witha  menu,  one  with  whom  he  had  also  spoken  before,  a  girl  who  had  a  very  grace-  ful  way  about  her,  though  she  was  quite  different  from  the  other.  She  didn't  walk  at  a  cheerful  pace  but  at  a  quiet,  slow  one,  and  when  she  stood  her  head  leaned  gently  sideways,  like  a  Sienese  madonna  or  a  long-stemmed  flower  weary  of  the  sun's  heat.  With  one  arm  akimbo  and  her  legs  crossed  so  only  one  foot  rested  squarely  on  the  floor,  she  stood  and  talked  with  him.  She  was  very  articulate,  had  studied  six  languages,  and  had  a  degree  in  botany,  yet  she  could  find  no  better  job  than  this.  He  spotted  two  of  his  students  at  nearby  tables  and  remembered  their  essays.  They  wrote  admirably.  He  often  read  in  the  newspapers  that  young  people  now  couldn't  write  a  sentence.  He  didn't  agree.  He  felt  lucky  to  be  sipping  onecup  of  coffee  after  another  in  such  gracious  com-  pany.  For  a  moment,  he  felt  part  of  it,  but  soon  he  was  out  again,  wandering  about  the  town,  seeing  solitude,  his  faithful  companion,  in  his  own  shadow  under  the  street  lights,  before  return-  " b"ing  to  his  room  or  to  his  office  at  the  university.  In  the  office  opposite  his,  on  certain  weekday  mornings,  there  was  a  young  woman  with  a  melodious  voice  and  laugh.  She  usually  kept  her  door  open,  and  he  kept  his  open-to  hear  her.  It  was  so  different,  her  laugh,  from  the  cackle  of  some  people  he  knew,  or  the  repressed  nasal  outburst,  or  the  ner-  vous  giggle,  or  guffaw.  No,  her  laugh  was  joy,  pure,  glowing.  Her  speaking  voice,  too,  had  an  unusual  richness.  At  his  desk,  he  listened  or  waited  to  listen.  &quot;Most  musical  of  women,  speak  again,&quot;  he  urged.  She  also  reminded  him  of  someone  he  had  known,  and  loved,  long  ago.  She  laughed  like  that,  the  girl  of  long  ago,  and  to  hear  her  laugh  he  had  taken  her  out,  only  to  find  that  she  laughed  less  and  less  when  she  was  withhim.  Had  he,  by  pointing  out  the  beauty  of  her  laugh,  made  her  self-conscious,  or  had  he  just  bored  her?  This  one,  too,  he  had  taken  out  to  supper,  and  she  also  laughed  in  his  company  less  well,  with  less  abandon,  not  with  the  pure  note  of  joy  that  he  had  overheard.  Must  he,  then,  be  content  with  brief  glances,  with  voices  overheard?  He  re-  called  a  passage  in  a  novel:  &quot;I've  never  had  anything  approaching  a  successful  love  affair.&quot;  It  had  made  him  smile,  it  was  so  candid.  It  also  seemed  to  him  that  the  narrator  was  a  little  proud  of  what  she  said.  Sometimes  he  felt  the  same  way.  Successful  affairs  weren't  for  him.  A  middle-aged  man  having  a  successful  love  affair!  How  ridiculous.  When  he  was  young,  he  might  have  had  one,  but  he  had  missed  his  chance,  and  now  he  was  trying  to  make  up  for  hislost  youth  and  flirted  with  girls  half,  or  almost  half,  his  age.  Perhaps  when  he  got  to  be  an  old  man  he  might  find  someone  his  own  age;  perhaps  then  he  might  even  fall  in  love  with  his  wife  again,  and  she  withhim,  and  they  might  become  one  of  those  sweet  old  couples  who  die  within  days  of  each  other,  one  out  of  grief  for  theother's  passing.  But  not  now!  He  was  in  the  middle  of  the  journey,  and  tired  be-  cause  he  had  come  so  far  and  had  still  such  a  long  way  to  go.  &quot;I've  never  had  anything  approach-  ing  a  successful  love  affair,&quot;  said  the  intelligent  woman  in  the  novel,  and  the  sentence  made  him  smile  again.  Per-  haps  it  was  simply  that  one  expected  too  much  of  the  other  person's,  and  one's  own,  body.  The  body  had  its  wisdom  and  didn't  want  to  be  dictated  to.  Yet  how  one  tried  to  dictate  to  it.  Not  just  one's  self  but  magazines,  books,  doctors,  psychologists  all  tried,  and  the  mess  they  made!  It  was  better  not  to  insist,  to  dwell  on  brief  bright  moments,  he  thought,  and,  even  as  he  thought  this,  desire  overrode  him,  and  he  gave  himself  up  to  the  most  pas-  sionate  thoughts  of  the  German  girl,  and  the  other  girl,  and  the  other.  No,  passion  could  not  be  dismissed  so  light-  ly.  It  was  the  one  thing  that  might  pull  his  life  together,  the  one  thing  around  which  it  might  cohere.  And  he  sur-  veyed  his  life,  not  for  what  would  never  be  but  for  what  was  and  might  be  again.  One  night  emerged.  It  had  been  no  affair.  It  had  been  merely  a  night-not  even  a  whole  night-three  or  four  months  ago,  in  October  or  November,  a  week  after  sitting  next  to  her  at  a  poetry  reading  near  his  town.  She  was  slender,  with  a  clear  expressive  face  framed  by  jet  black  hair  cut  straight  above  her  neck.  At  the  reading,  the  poems  stirred  her,  visibly.  She  moved  her  head,  her  torso,  and  a  few  times  she  smiled  or  laughed  or  sighed.  She  looked  young,  but  later  someone  who  knew  her  told  him-  though  he  hadn't  asked  (how  he  hated  such  gratuitous  information  )-that  she  was  several  years  older  than  he  was.  Anyway,  as  he  sat  there  next  to  her,  he  experienced  the  strangest  feeling  of  being  linked  to  her;  though  they  didn't  touch,  he  felt  as  though  currents  were  passing  between  them,  trying  to  bind  them.  So  intense  was  the  sensation  it  prevented  words,  He  searched  for  them  in  vain.  It  wasn't  shyness-shy-  ness  was  only  the  symptom  of  some-  thing  deeper.  He  didn't  speak  to  her  that  evening,  but  a  party  followed  the  next  reading,  a  week  later,  and  he  went  and  somehow,  by  chance,  not  by  de-  sign,  he  found  himself  sitting  next  to  her  on  a  sofa.  He  told  her  about  the  experience  of  the  week  before.  She  told  him  she  had  had  the  same  feeling.  It  was  impossible  now  not  to  hold  her  hand.  At  a  certain  point,  she  said,  or  warned  him,  that  she  was  very  pas-  sionate.  It  seemed  like  an  invitation.  He asked  if  she  would  like  to  go  for  a  walk  with  him.  They  left  the  party.  She  told  him  it  was  her  last  night  in  town  and  that  she  had  been  renting  an  apartment  all  summer  but  had  given  it  up  andwas  staying  at  a  friend's  house.  &quot;We  could  go  for  a  drive,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;No,&quot;  she  said.  Her  friend  was  a  nurse  on  duty  at  the  hospital  that  night,  she  explained,  and  in  the  apartment  there  was  only  the  friend's  child,  asleep.  At  the  apartment,  she  offered  him  a  drink,  which  he  declined.  She  went  into  the  bedroom  and  returned  in  a  nightgown.  A  recordplayed  soft  mu-  sic.  Magically  she  swayed  in  the  half-  darkness  of  the  living  room.  Magically  she  came  toward  him.  Later,  in  the  extreme  moment  of  passion,  she  gave  a  cry  that  seemed  to  him  to  fill  not  just  the  room  and  house  but  the  whole  town,  and  to  go  out  like  a  wave  against  the  waves  of  the  sea  that  bathed  the  town,  and  to  the  sky.  It  echoed,  that  cry  of  joy,  through  the  months  that  passed;  it  seemed  to  reach  into  eternity,  even  as  it  had  reached  into  the  universe,  It  would  not  die.  It  was  a  cry,  he  thought,  &quot;such  as  made  the  world  in  the  beginning,&quot;  primeval,  belonging  to  no  time  and  to  all  time.  He  had  seen  her  again,  very  briefly,  for  a  few  minutes  in  New  York.  She  was  going  away  for  the  winter,  south,  to  the  Caribbean,  to  work  in  a  hotelshop,  but  in  the  spring  she  would  be  back.  &quot;And  we  could  go  to  4974616c79  together,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Seriously,  we  could.  Think  about  it.&quot;  He  thought  about  it.  Sometimes  he  thought  about  it.  But  it  wasn't  like  thinking  of  that  cry.  No,  rather,  think-  ing  of  going  with  her  brought  up  al  sorts  of  problems,  worries  that  would  stay  with  him  throughout  the  journey  if  they  ever  undertook  it.  And-apart  from  the  problems  and  worries,  were  he  able  to  brush  them  aside  for  a  mo-  ment-could  he  ever  be  as  happy  with  her  as  he  had  been  that  night?  Could  that  experience  everbe  renewed  in  al  its  wonder?  Or  did  it  depend  on  new-  ness,  on  their  being  almost  strangers  on  its  having  been  her  last  night  in  town-on  conditions  or  circumstances  that  could  not  be  repeated?  Perhaps  not.  Perhaps  he  could  be  happy  with  her.  &quot;Go  with  her,  then,&quot;  he  told  him-  self.  &quot;Go  on!  Why  don't  you?&quot;  HE  remembered  posing  himself  a  similar  question  when  he  was  in  his  early  twenties,  soon  after  the  war,  He  was  sitting  on  the  garden  wall  of  his  home  in  4974616c79,  and  a  woman  was  sitting  next  to  him-an  556e6974656420537461746573n  cor-  respondent  for  a  news  magazine.  She  " b"had  come  by  jeep  with  a  friend,  a  man  a  good  deal  older,  a  professor,  a  clever  fellow  whom  his  family  had  known  for  years.  Theman  had  left  them  alone  in  the  garden.  She  and  the  man  no  doubt  were,  or  had  been,  lovers,  but  now  she  seemed  to  prefer  him.  She  was  very  pretty,  he  recalled,  with  bright  dark  eyes  and  an  oval  face,  and  bangs.  Her  hair  blew  in  the  wind.  Her  skirt,  too.  And  she  looked  at  him  with  a  wistful  eye.  At  one  point,  she  said,  &quot;Why  don't  you  come  with  me  to  Florence?&quot;  Just  like  that.  Yes,  she  was  all  set  to  leave  the  other  man,  leave  him  cold,  without  a  word,  and  take  off  with  him.  And  why  hadn't  he  gone?  Why  hadn't  he?  What  kept  him?  And  what  throughout  his  school  years  had  kept  him  going  to  classes  every  day,  to  the  odious  lessons,  the  gym  periods,  the  military  drill?  Why  had  he  attended  them  all  so  dutifully?  Why  hadn't  he  followed  his  heart,  his  inclination,  instead  of  doing  what  was  expected  of  him?  It  seemed  to  him  now  thatthat  was  all  he  had  ever  done.  Only  once,  in  those  days,  did  he  re-  member  doing  what  his  heart  told  him:  it  was  snowing,  and  he  just  forgot  to  go  to  school.  The  snow,  the  rarity  ofa  snowfall  in  his  town,  the  wonder  of  it,  had  made  him  literally  forget  that  there  was  school,  and  he  had  gone  into  the  park  instead,  and  played,  and  only  be-  come  aware  that  he  was  missing  school  when  it  had  become  too  late  to  go.  Tomorrow  he  had  another  lecture.  He  felt  as  if  he  were  a  student  all  over  again.  That  he  was  giving  the  lectures  instead  of  hearing  them  didn't  real-  ly  matter.  The  strain  was  greater,  if  anything,  and  the  students  sometimes  seemed  to  him  like  professors,  whom  he  had  to  please,  stern  judges  sitting  there  without  a  word.  In  the  end,  they  would  write  a  report  about  him:  Course  or  Teacher  Evaluation,  they  called  it.  A  few  students  had  dropped  the  course,  dropped  him,  already  given  their  judg-  ment.  He  wondered  what  they  all  said  to  each  other,  what  they  wrote  home,  about  him.  &quot;Good&quot;?  &quot;No  good&quot;?  What  did  they  say?  Some  looked  at  him  with  a  kindly  eye,  tenderly.  But  even  they  probably  sensed  the  strain,  sensed  his  difficulties.  And  he  wished  he  could  cut  loose,  give  up,  go  away.  But  he  couldn't,  any  more  than  when  he  was  a  student.  To  truly  change,  one  had  to  fall  into  a  state  of  oblivion.  He  had  managed  it  once,  during  a  snow-  fall.  But  here  it  snowed  again  and  again,  throughout  the  winter,  some-  times  even  in  the  fall  and  in  the  spring.  He  had  got  used  to  snow. "