 b"IT  is  with  great  relief  that  I  feel  able  to  go  out  again.  But  for  what  a  long  time  was  I  confined  to  my  room!  These  havebeen  bitter  months  and  years.  I  cannot  explain  why  I  have  been  living  in  my  old  nursery-the  back  room  of  the  apartment,  with  access  from  the  balcony-which  was  rare-  ly  used  in  the  past,  forgotten,  as  if  it  did  not  belong  to  us.  I  cannot  remem-  ber  how  I  got  here.  I  believe  it  was  during  abright  watery-white  moon-  less  night.  I  could  see  every  detail  in  the  dim  light.  The  bed  was  unmade,  as  if  someone  had  just  left  it,  and  I  listened  in  the  stillness  for  the  breath-  ing  of  people  asleep.  But  who  was  like-  ly  to  be  breathing  here?  Since  then,  this  has  been  my  home.  I  have  been  here  for  years  and  am  ratherbored.  Why  didn't  I  think  in  advance  about  stocking  up?  Ah,  you  who  still  can  do  it,  who  still  are  given  the  time,  make  provisions,  save  up  grain-good  nourishing,  sweet  grain;  for  a  great  winter  of  lean  and  hungry  years  lies  ahead,  and  the  earth  will  not  bear  fruit  in  the  land  of  [REDACTED].  Alas,  I  was  not  provident,  like  a  hamster.  I  have  al-  ways  been  a  lighthearted  field  mouse,  I  have  lived  from  day  to  day  without  a  care  for  the  morrow,  trusting  in  my  starveling's  talent.  Like  a  mouse,  I  thought,  What  do  I  care  about  hun-  ger?  If  worst  comes  to  worst,  I  can  gnaw  wood  or  nibble  paper.  The  poor-  est  of  animals,  a  gray  church  mouse,  at  the  tail  end  of  the  Book  of  Creation,  I  can  exist  on  nothing.  And  so  I  live  in  this  dead  room.  Many  flies  died  in  it  a  long  time  ago.  I  put  my  ear  against  wood,  to  hear  the  sound  of  a  wood-  worm.  Deadly  silence.  Only  I,  the  im-  mortal  mouse,  lonely  and  posthumous,  rustle  in  this  room,  running  endlessly  on  the  table,  on  the  shelf,  on  the  chairs.  I  run  around,  resembling  Aunt  Thecla  in  a  longgray  frock  reaching  to  the  ground-agile,  quick,  and  small,  pull-  ing  behind  me  a  mobile  tail.  I  am  now  sitting  in  bright  daylight  on  the  table,  immobile,  as  if  stuffed,  my  eyes  like  two  protruding  shiny  beads.  Only  the  end  of  my  muzzle  pulsates  imperceptibly,  by  force  of  habit,  in  minute  chewing  movements.  HIS,  of  course,  is  to  be  under-  stood  as  a  metaphor.  I  am  really  an  old-age  pensioner,  not  a  mouse.  It  is  part  of  my  existence  to  be  the  para-  site  of  metaphors,  so  easily  am  I  carried  away  by  the  first  simile  that  comes  along.  Having  been  carried  away,  I  have  to  find  my  difficult  way  back,  and  slowly  return  to  my  senses.  What  do  I  look  like?  Sometimes  I  see  myself  in  the  mirror.  A  strange,  ridiculous,  and  painful  thing!  I  am  ashamed  to  admit  it:  I  never  look  at  myself  full  face.  Somewhat  deeper,  somewhat  farther  away,  I  stand  inside  the  mirror  a  little  off  center,  slight  ly  in  profile,  thoughtful  and  glancing  sideways.  Our  looks  have  stopped  meeting.  When  I  move,  my  reflection  moves,  too,  but  half  turned  away,  as  if  it  did  not  know  about  me,  as  if  it  had  got  behind  a  number  of  mirrors  and  could  not  come  back.  My  heart  bleeds  when  I  see  it  so  distant  and  indifferent.  It  is  you,  I  want  to  exclaim;  you  have  always  been  my  faithful  reflection,  you  have  accompanied  me  for  so  many  years,  and  now  you  don't  recognize  me!  Oh,  my  God!  Unfamiliar  and  looking  to  one  side,  my  reflection  stands  there  and  seems  to  be  listening  for  something,  awaiting  a  word  from  the  mirrored  depths,  obedient  to  someone  else,  waiting  for  orders  from  another  place.  Mostly  I  sit  at  the  table  and  turn  the  pages  of  my  yellowed  university  notes-my  only  reading.  I  look  at  the  sun-bleached  curtain,  stiff  with  dust,  waving  slightly  in  the  cold  breeze  from  the  window.  I  could  do  exercises  on  the  curtain  rod,  an  ex-  cellent  bar.  How  lightly  one  could  turn  somersaults  on  it  in  the  sterile,  tired  air.  Almost  casually,  one  could  make  an  elegant  salto  mortale,  coolly,  without  too  much  involvement-a  speculative  exercise,  as  it  were.  When  one  stands  on  tiptoe,  balancing  oneself  on  the  bar,  with  one's  head  touching  the  ceiling,  one  has  the  impression  that  it  is  slightly  warmer  higher  up-the  illusion  of  being  in  a  warmer  zone.  Ever  since  my  child-  hood,  I  have  liked  to  have  a  bird's-eye  view  of  my  room.  So  I  sit  and  listen  to  the  silence.  The  room  is  whitewashed.  Sometimes  on  the  white  ceiling  a  wrinkle-like  crack  appears,  sometimes  a  flake  of  plaster  breaks  off  with  a  click.  Am  I  to  reveal  that  the  room  is  walled  in?  How  can  that  be?  Walled  in?  How  could  I  leave  it?  That  is  just  it:  where  there  is  a  will,  there  is  a  way;  a  passionate  determi-  nation  can  conquer  all.  I  must  only  imagine  a  door,  a  good  old  door,  like  the  one  in  the  kitchen  of  my  child-  hood,  with  an  iron  handle  and  a  bolt.  There  is  no  walled-in  room  that  could  not  be  opened  by  sucha  trusted  door,  provided  one  were  strong  enough  to  sug-  gest  that  such  a  door  exists. "