 b"THE  culturally  obtuse  who  still  cling  to  the  notion  that  scat-  that  is,  the  singing  of  a  musical  phrase  made  up  of  an  idiotic  syllable  or  syllables-was  invented  by  Louis  Arm-  strong  or  Ella  Fitzgerald  would  do  well  to  approach  Munce  Peasley's  new  book,  &quot;The  Meaningless  in  Music:  Six  Centuries,  from  Fa-la  to  Ooblic-  dot&quot;  (Niggling  Press,  New  Haven.  Six  pages;  $18),  with  extreme  caution.  Dr.  Peasley,  curator  of  rare  beineckes  at  the  Beinecke  collection  at  Yale  Univer-  sity,  has  assembled  cast-iron  proof  that  the  first  nonsense  syllables  were  sung  not  by  a  man  in  [REDACTED]  with  a  wide  tic  and  zoot  pants  but  by  an  unknown  fourteenth-century  English  thresher,  whose  magnificent  contribution  altered  the  course  of  Western  culture,  though  he  himself  was  trampled  to  death  by  kine  the  following  week.  Peasley,  using  blunt  scissors  and  ajarof  mucilage,  has  reconstructed  this  and  other  signifi-  cant  events  in  his  field,  and  we  can  but  stand  slack-jawed  at  the  quality  of  his  research,  to  say  nothing  of  his  general  appearance.  A  short  pr\xc3\xa9cis  fol-  lows,  after  which  the  reader  may  con-  tinue  to  stare  vacantly  out  the  window.  Form  BEroinNnNinos:  The  earliest  known  record  of  primitive  scat,  or  scutte,  occurs  in  Weir's  &quot;Synggebok&quot;  (1345  )-a  collection  of  English  coun-  try  airs  sung  at  harvest  time  to  celebrate  the  continuing  failure  of  all  known  farming  methods.  Weir,  a  [REDACTED]  scrivener  and  curdsmonger,  obtained  a  contemporary  version  of  the  Scots  bal-  lad  &quot;Wha  Haue  Ye  Gae?&quot;  :  Oh,  wha  haue  ye  gae,  Ma'  billy-dilly  glorn?  Wha  haue  ye  gae,  ma'  birney  ?  Ich  bene  ta'  ye  toon,  W1'  ma'  nelkins  all  a-blorn.  Synge  lack-a-day,  witherey-boo,  lack-a-day,  tarn  -  Here  the  fragment  ends,  probably  be-  cause  of  Weir's  falling  into  the  mill  and  being  ground  into  a  fine  white  powder.  (The  event  was  celebrated  in  another  popular  ballad  of  the  day,  &quot;Weir  Haue  Bene  Grynde  Intae  Whyte  Poudre,  Ye  Stupe&quot;  [1346].)  However,  the  evi-  dence  is  incontrovertible.  &quot;Lack-a-day,  witherey-boo,&quot;  dating  from  this  period,  was  instantly  recognized  as  the  most  in-  furiating  musical  phrase  in  the  lan-  guage,  remaining  unchallenged  until  the  introduction,  over  six  hundred  years  later,  of  &quot;tootie-fruitie,  o-rootie&quot;  by  Charles  Berry.  Transrrion  ro  OtHEr  MonEs:  The  classical  schoolbegins  with  the  appear-  ance,  in  4974616c79,  of  Fra  Antonio  del'  No-  nentati,  a  modest  seventeenth-century  cleric  who  was  the  maestro  di  concerti  forthe  Pieta  Ospedale  during  the  pe-  riod  when  it  was  entirely  under  water  (1689-90).  In  an  era  already  cele-  brated  forthe  hysterical  productivity  of  its  artists,  he  stands  out  as  the  pre-  eminent  freak.  In  addition  to  perform-  ing  his  regular  duties  at  the  hospital  (he  was  responsible  for  the  daily  taunt-  ing  of  the  incurabili),  he  provided  for  his  patron,  the  Duc  M'anti,  thou-  sands  of  masses,  cantatas,  capriccios,  preludes,  and  fugues,  plus  hundreds  of  occasional  pieces  designed,  in  the  fashion  of  the  time,  to  aid  the  aging  nobleman  in  the  execution  of  his  daily  regimen:  a  sicilienne  to  help  him  sleep,  a  brisk  rondo  to  wake  him  up,  a  tuneful  courante  to  make  him  eat  his  peas,  a  merry  allemande  to  encourage  him  to  pitch  face  forward  into  the  canal.  This  creative  cataract,  dwarf-  ing  even  the  combined  ceuvre  of  Haydn,  Scarlatti  p\xc3\xa9re,  and  Paul  (the  Tiny  [REDACTED])  Williams,  allowed  the  Duke  to  dominate  the  social  and  cultural  life  of  4974616c79  for  over  a  decade,  until  the  [REDACTED]  impounded  his  Rolodex.  It  is  no  secret  that  Nonentati's  end-  less  inspiration  severely  taxed  his  col-  laborators,  notably  the  castrato  Cala-  mari  (Fruggio  Spedini,  nicknamed  the  Squid  because  he  was  fat  and  rub-  bery  and  darted  about  the  stage  in  an  obnoxious  manner).  The  relationship,  though  unproductive,  was  not  entirely  cordial,  judging  from  this  entry  in  the  monk's  journal:  July  29.  A  long  hot  summer.  In  two  weeks  it  will  be  July  43.  How  slowly  the  time  goes!  Up  at  3  a.m.  for  matins  and  some  light  composition.  Completed  a  com-  mission  from  the  Grand  Magistrate  to  devise  a  new  tuning  for  his  mandolin  ;  He  was  quite  enchanted  with  it  and  sent  along  a  scroll  entitling  me  to  have  my  nose  twisted  any  time  I  am  at  the  palace.  Finished  today's  opera,  but  the  bewigged  ponce  is  again  late  with  the  text.  What  to  do?  Without  words,  I  can-  not  rehearse  the  singers.  Without  singers,  you  got  no  opera.  Without  no  opera,  you  got  nothing.&quot;  The  story  is  taken  up  here  by  Lan-  goustino,  another  sopramo  naturale,  about  whom  Handel  said,  &quot;.  ..  his  sing-  'Translation  by  Fabrizio  Linen  Supply  and  Translation  Service.  ing  can  make  the  birds  come  down  from  the  sky  and  walk  around  for  a  while.  If  that  is  what  you  want.&quot;  From  Langoustino's  famous  letter  to  his  horse:  ...in  the  absence  of  any  text,  Maestro  asked  me  for  tonight's  performance  to  sing  &quot;anything  at  all-even  something  imbecilic,  like  your  name.&quot;  By  the  second  act,  however,  the  inordinately  damp  weather  had  shrunk  my  costume  (a  leather  jerkin)  to  one-quarter  of  its  original  size,  totally  constricting  my  chest  and  rendering  impossible  any  but  the  tiniest  of  breaths.  &quot;La-&quot;  I  sang,  over  and  over,  in  a  series  of  strangulated  mouse-like  inhalations.  From  beyond  the  footlights  came  a  telltale  rustling  and  shifting  as  the  audience  gleefully  antici-  pated  a  major  fiasco.  Tartini  smirked  be-  hind  his  fan;  humiliation  seemed  in-  escapable.  My  embarrassment  turned  to  rage.  &quot;La...la...la...&quot;  I  persisted,  forcing  each  breath,  until  my  field  of  vision  was  replaced  by  a  pleasant  series  of  bright  pinwheels  against  a  black  back-  ground.  Upon  being  revived,  I  learned  that  the  performance,  far  from  a  disas-  ter,  had  thoroughly  charmed  the  Duke  (who  is  a  swine),  and  he  awarded  me  twelve  florins  and  a  thaler,  though  I  would  have  preferred  money.  Tur  Baroour  MastERs:  Baroque  scat  had  its  origins  in  the  work  of  Johann  Joachim  Quantz,  the  German  flautist  who  was  clever  enough  to  be  called  a  contemporary  of  Buxtehude  even  though  they  did  not  both  live  at  the  same  time.  Quantz  taught  his  stu-  dents  to  speak  the  word  &quot;did'll&quot;  into  their  flutes  to  achieve  proper  articula-  tion.  The  novelty  caught  on  quickly,  as  the  only  other  diversion  available  in  eighteenth-century  [REDACTED]  was  the  weekly  placing  of  large  stones  upon  an  ugly  person,  or  &quot;critic.&quot;  Quantz  died  a  wealthy  man,  and,  as  befitted  a  person  of  his  stature,  was  buried  up-  side  down  to  see  if  he  had  any  loose  change  in  his  bib.  Tre  Crassicar  Scroor:  It  is  prob-  ablethat  the  young  Mozart  was  fa-  miliar  with  Quantz's  work,  most  like-  ly  through  the  efforts  of  the  Baron  van  Swieten,  an  amateur  who  also  ran  the  catcall  concession  at  the  Munich  Spiel-  haus.  Van  Swieten  was  a  friend  and  pa-  tron  ofthe  young  [REDACTED]  genius,  and  occasionally  let  him  see  the  works  of  the  Baroque  masters.  As  he  was  mor-  tally  afraid  of  adulterating  the  pure  musical  wellspring  of  the  prodigy,  he  permitted  him  to  view  his  copy  of  Bach's  Goldberg  Variations  only  through  a  telescope  while  the  Baron  rode  by  in  a  carriage,  opening  and  shutting  the  book  very  quickly.  In  his  memoirs,  the  Baron  himself  recalls,  &quot;Today  I  chanced  to  over-  hear  the  lad  singing  to  himself  in  the  " b"act  of  composing  a  song.  It  was  a  bit-  tersweet,  haunting  melody&quot; We  now  know  this  fragment  belonged  not  to  a  song  at  all  but  to  the  opening  few  measures  of  the  &quot;Leipzig&quot;  Sym-  phony,  or  &quot;St.  Anne's  Jitters,&quot;  as  it  is  known  in  [REDACTED].  With  typical  un-  self-consciousness,  Mozart  here  takes  the  antiquated  &quot;dee&quot;-a  product  of  the  lyrical  but  unsophisticated  Italian  school-and  combines  it  with  the  more  intellectual  &quot;did'll&quot;of  the  German  Quantz  and  arrives  at  the  brilliant  synthesis  &quot;deedle,&quot;  thus  effecting  in  one  masterstroke  a  blending  of  the  affettuo-  so  with  the  rubato,  and  the  creation  of  a  style  that  can  be  either  played  at  home  for  friends  or  worn  after  dark  for  an  evening  of  casual  elegance.  Mo-  zart  himself  was  quite  pleased  with  the  phrase,  writing  to  his  father,  &quot;I'm  cer-  tain  you'll  agree  it  has  wonderful  po-  tential  if  used  correctly,  and  should  garner  hefty  ducat  in  local  situations.&quot;  He  went  on  to  say,  &quot;Ithas  become  a  favorite  of  Prince  Leopold,  who  spon-  sored  an  outdoor  musicale  on  my  be-  half,  even  joining  the  orchestra  to  blow  a  little  flute  (called  a  piccolo).  When  the  concert  was  halted,  due  to  a  rain  shower,  he  was  kind  enough  to  draw  me  aside,  saying,  'Someday  you  and  your  deedles  will  be  more  famous  than  Mozart.&quot;  Since  I  am  Mozart,  I  found  his  remark  perverse,  until  I  recalled  that  he  had  been  repeatedly  struck  by  lightning  during  the  afternoon.&quot;  Tur  NINETEENTH-CENTURY  Scnoor:  The  early  Romantics  (Ber-  lioz,  Mendelssohn,  Chopin,  and  the  Shapiros-the  last  not  composers,  but  inseparable)  brought  scat  out  from  the  musty  corridors  of  classicism  into  the  bright  sunshine  of  what  Liszt  called  &quot;the  emotive  rebobazoid&quot;  (the  Abb\xc3\xa9  was  over  seventy  at  the  time  and  may  have  meant  something  else  entirely  ).  In  any  event,  strict  adherence  to  classi-  cal  syllables  was  abandoned  for  a  freer,  more  poetic  style.  Mendelssohn  hummed  the  opening  theme  of  his  Vio-  lin  Concerto  to  Ferdinand  David  thus:   An  illuminating  anecdote  about  Brahms  illustrates  how  the  artistic  personality  transcends  formalistic  limitations,  but  we  do  not  have  this  anecdote.  Yet  it  is  known  that  Brahms,  at  the  dress  rehearsal  of  his  &quot;Ein  Deutsches  Re-  quiem,&quot;  admonished  the  chorus,  saying,  &quot;Text,  schmext,  just  keep  it  peppy.  And  don't  fidget  during  the  solos.&quot;  If  there  is  one  composer  who  developed  a  truly contemporary  technique,  it  is  either  Maurice  Ravel  or  someone  who  looked  just  like  him  and  lived  in  his  apartment.  Ravel,  a  great  admirer  of  American  jazz,  heard  an  early  Louis  Armstrong  performance  of  &quot;Honey-  suckle  Rose&quot;  containing  the  following  phrase: Like  all  great  innovators,  Ravel  took  great  risks,  often  saying,  as  he  twirled  his  upper  lip  (he  had  no  mustache),  &quot;Now  I  take  these  great  risks,  isn't  it?&quot;  and,  stimulated  by  Satchmo's  brilliant  improvisation  on  the  Waller  tune,  at-  tempted  to  dictate  the  cadenza  of  an  unpublished  saxophone  concerto  (two  hundred  bars,  all  thirty-second  notes)  on  the  syllable  &quot;dwane;&quot;  viz.:  By  the  third  bar,  his  jaw  had  dislocat-  ed,  and  Honegger  later  reported  that  he  had  to  sponge  foam  from  the  Mas-  ter's  cravat.  Ravel  was  of  course  the  victim  of  a  rapidly  worsening  situation-one  that  Schoenberg  characterized  as  the  lack  of  a  simple,  universal  &quot;zot-sprechen,&quot;  ca-  pable  of  being  understoodby  any-  one,  regardless  of  style  or  nationality.  Toward  that  end,  a  worldwide  artistic  conference  was  convened  in  April,  1938,  in  a  nice  room  at  the  Europa  Hotel,  in  [REDACTED],  with  folding  chairs  for  up  to  three  hundred  people  and  light  refreshments  promised  afterward.  The  steering  committee,  co-chaired  by  Francis  Poulenc  and  Fats  Waller,  urged  the  adoption  of  the  simplified,  or  metric,  vout  system,  a  workable  com-  promise  in  which  all  previous  syllables,  from  &quot;fa-la&quot;  to  &quot;vaus-o-zootie,&quot;'  were  immediately  replaced  by  a  simple  &quot;zot,&quot;  while  the  irregular  hyphenates  (&quot;zob-  ba-zide,&quot;  &quot;po-zide,&quot;  and  &quot;re-bop&quot;)  were  to  be  slowly  phased  out.  In  the  keynote  address,  delivered  to  almost  three  hundred  folding  chairs,  rooney-  master  Slim  Gaillard  captured  the  spirit  of  the  evening  when  he  said,  Yip  rock,  heh-ree-sey,  Kay  biss-ay  knee,  kib-bee  bah,  Ah-la-ha  mish-a-Mac  voutie!  La-ha,  la-ha  Macrooney-mo.  Seven  years  later,  in  occupied  Aus-  tria,  Anton  von  Webern  paused  to  light  a  cigarette  in  the  doorway  of  his  home  and  was  struck  down  by  a  bullet.  An  old  era  had  ended,  and  so  far  noth-  ing  has  replaced  it.  "