 b'WHEN  I  was  a  young  man,  I  taught  at  a  school  in  Yeovil,  a  small  town  in  Somerset.  Noth-  ing  much  happened  in  Yeovil.  Each  morning  my  children  came  dreamily  to  school,  their  fathers  worked  in  shops  or  dairies  or  breweries,  their  mothers  made  the  gloves  for  which  the  town  had  a  reputation.  Oh,  I  liked  Yeovil  very  much.  Its  citizens  spoke  slowly,  with  a  soft,  creamy  accent;  its  houses  were  built  of  golden,  local  stone-the  gentle  Ham  stone;  its  life  was  slow  and  com-  fortable;  I  had  many  friends  there.  There  was  nothing  wrong  with  the  town,  yet  I  never  stayed  there  a  day  longer  than  was  necessary.  The  last  hours  of  every  term  would  find  me  with  my  bags  packed,waiting  forthe  bell  that  would  end  school  and  set  me  striding  away  for  Pen  Mill  station,  a  few  hundred  yards  down  the  road,  on  the  edge  of  town.  I  always  went  home  to  [REDACTED]  and  I  always  went  by  train.  Nothing  would  be  moving  at  Pen  Mill  station.  Only  rarely  would  there  be  someone  at  the  barrier  to  examine  my  ticket.  Once  inside,  I  could  some-  times  see,  far  away  down  the  platform,  a  lone  porter  sitting  on  a  trolley,  look-  ing  steadfastly  into  the  distance,  not  even  reading.  There  would  never  be  a  train.  But  eventually  one  would  ar-  rive-a  small,  meandering  train  with  an  air  of  having  strayed  in  from  ear-  lier,  more  rustic  times;  and  when,  at     last,  it  set  off  again  it  did  nothing  to  dispel  this  impression.  There  probably  was  a  village  in  Somerset  at  which  it  did  not  stop  but  I  cannot  remember  one.  On  we  went,  our  roundabout,  lei-  surely  journey  interrupted  at  such  con-  urbations  as  Marston  Magna,  Queen  Camel,  Sparkford,  Castle  Cary,  Bruton,  Frome,  Westbury.  It  was  at  Westbury,  on  a  day  when  we  travelled  more  haltingly  than  usual,  that  I  once  left  the  train.  It  was  Sun-  day,  a  day  of  clear  summer,  the  air  dry  and  cloudless,  little  motes  of  sun  haze  dancing  in  the  yellow  light.  I  walked  out  of  the  station  and  found,  at  the  end  of  a  green  lane,  a  lake,  like  a  mirage,  fringed  by  reeds.  There,  on  that  lake,  I  saw  for  the  first  time  the  great  crested  grebe,  a  diving  bird  I  had  only  read  about.  It  swam  low  in  the  water,  its  dark  body  almost  lost,  its  long  neck  holding  aloft  its  ruffed  and  regal  head;  and  it  was  joined  by  another  grebe,  and  then  one  more,  and  yet  an-  other,  until  there  were  six  of  these  re-  markable  birds  swimming,  or  vanishing  into  the  water,  If  it  was  water.  It  was  an  element  so  rare  and  fine,  so  unruf-  fled  by  any  passage  of  air  or  bird,  that  the  very  reflections  of  those  grebes  floated  beneath  their  bodies  complete  in  feather,  in  color,  in  action.  W  aterdrops  fell  down  from  each  flawless  bird  and  up  from  each  immaculate  image,  dissolving  in  each  other  as  they  met,  in  an  equal  har-mony.  I  forgot  the  train,  but  when,  hot,  dusty,  and  amazed,  I  got  back  to  the  station,  it  was  still  there,  somnolent  and  good-tempered,  waiting  for  me.  On  the  other  hand,  if  my  friend  Barney  Eagleton  was  driving,  we  some-  times  made  very  good  time,  rattling  through  those  delicious  fields  as  if  there  were  in  life  a  real  purpose,  a  sense  of  urgent  destiny.  But  this  was  a  decep-  tion.  Barney  was  also  an  enthusiastic  bird-watcher,  and  a  specialist  at  that-a  heron  specialist.  I  think  Barney  knew  more  about  herons  than  any  other  man  alive.  Somewhere  in  north  Somerset  our  train  ran  along  a  high  embankment  for  a  distance  of  several  hundred  yards.  We  could  look  down  from  our  carriage  windows  on  the  tops  of  great  elms  in  whose  wide  branches  herons  had  for  generations  nested.  In  late  spring,  after  the  young  birds  had  hatched,  any  en-  gine  driven  by  Barney  Eagleton  would  rumble  past  thesenests  with  infinite,  heavy  caution.  And  then  it  would  stop.  People  would  pull  down  their  windows  and  lean  out,  watching  the  young  birds  wave  their  snakelike  heads,  nodding  ap-  proval  to  Barney  as  he  stood  in  his  cab  owning  the  whole  flock.  A  few  im-  patient  souls-lovers,  perhaps,  or  men  from  Bristol  -would  begin  to  mutter  and  look  at  their  watches;  and  at  last,  bored  beyond  watching  by  the  repetitive  and  unimaginative  behavior  of  young  herons,  we  all  would  yell  insults  or  in-  structions  at  Barney.  He  would  sigh,  turn  to  his  levers,  and,  later  than  ever,  we  would  roll  ponderously  away.  This  was  near  Bradford-on-Avon,  as  we  entered  the  valley  of  the  Avon.  Now  a  perceptible  change  would  come  over  our  progress,  whether  Barney  drove  us  or  not.  We  were  nearing  civilization;  the  great  cities  were  com-  ing  toward  us.  Our  speed  became  smarter,  we  were  signalled  away  from  the  little  stations  with  an  urban  con-  fidence  and  panache.  We  left  behind  the  huge  tithe  barn  of  Bradford-on-  Avon  and  the  weir  below  which  the  river  holds  great  pike.  Quite  soon  we  would  reach  Bath.  Such  cities  are  not  best  approached  by  train.  They  were  there-expansive,  prosperous,  established-long  before  Trevithick  drove  his  long-stacked  old  steam  engine,  the  first  in  the  world  to  roll  on  its  own  wheels  under  its  own  power,  down  the  valley  in  [REDACTED]  where  I  was  born.  The  railway  tends  to  en-  ter  old  cities  apologetically,  running  be-  hind  the  backs  of  unimportant  houses,  hidden  behind  tall  walls  at  the  perim-  eter  of  things.  And  Bath  is  a  great  European  city,  important  even  before  the  Romans  rebuilt  it.  Our  train,  it  is     ' b"true,  made  the  best  of  things  outside  the  town,  steaming  along  the  val-  ley  with  an  impressive  directness.  But  soon  enough-as  soon  as  we  left  Bathampton  sta-  tion-the  very  weight  and  presence  of  the  city  forced  us  in  a  wide  curve  to  the  south.  Not  much  ofthe  famous  crescents  and  terraces  could  be  seen  from  our  windows.  We  would  sidle  into  Bath  Spa  sta-  tion,  clamped  in  an  elbow  of  the  river  between  Dorchester  Street  and  Claverton  Street,  and  then  we'd  set  off  for  Bristol  -a  brief  run.  And  after  that  we'd  rattle  through  the  long  tunnel  beneath  the  Bristol  Channel  and  come  up  among  the  hills  and  quick  vowels  of  [REDACTED].  On  the  last  possible  day  I  would  do  the  whole  journey  in  reverse,  ending  in  dark-  ness  among  the  little  fields  and  lit  farms  of  Somerset,  leaving  Pen  Mill  station  still  harm-  lessly  deserted,  walking  the  evening  streets  in  the  bland  Somerset  air.  Bath  was  unimportant  to  me,  a  back  cloth,  an  incident  in  a  journey.     ET  years  later  I  went  to  teach  in  Bath.  It  was  something  I  never  got  used  to.  I  lived  in  a  flat  in  the  city,  and  every  evening  I  would  go  to  sleep  knowing  that  on  the  floors  above  my  head  other  men  were  already  sleeping,  or  preparing  to  sleep.  We  lived  in  lay-  ers,  and  this  was  foreign  to  me.  Al-  ways  I  felt  about  me  the  whispers  and  rustling  of  other  lives;  I  was  aware  of  the  great,  serious  eyes  of  people  not  known  to  me  as  they  turned  by  night  to  their  partners  and  began  to  speak  of  the  little  deaths  of  their  hours.  The  tall  house  was  full  of  nightlong  sibilance.  In  hot  weather  I  kept  my  windows  open  and  listened  to  the  one  tree  in  the  yard  gasping.  I  cannot  say  I  liked  liv-  ing  there.  But  there  was  much  that  was  de-  lightful.  Each  evening  after  work,  and  at  weekends,  I  walked  the  streets  of  Bath-Broad  Street  and  Green  Street,  Lilliput  Lane  and  Orange  Grove,  Mil-  som  Street  and  Great  Pulteney  Street.  Sometimes  I  went  along  the  riverbank,  with  anglers  stationed  every  yard  of  the  way,  up  to  Pulteney  [REDACTED],  and  high-  er.  I  travelled  to  the  villages  which  lie  snugly  about  in  the  combs  and  hol-  lows  of  the  round  hills:  Monkton  Far-  leigh  and  Monkton  Combe,  Limpley  Stoke,  Wellow,  Englishcombe,  [REDACTED]  St.  Loe,  Swainswick.  Best  of  all  I  liked  wet  nights  when  the  streets  were  emp-  ty.  Once,  on  a  night  of  appalling  and  splendid  downpour,  I  alone  saw  a  screech  owl  perched  on  the  roof  of  the  Guildhall,  in  the  heart  of  the  city.  He  cried  aloud  at  the  flattening  rain,  and  I,  sheltering  momentarily  in  the  post-  office  doorway  to  see  him  better,  sa-  luted  him,  knowing  him  to  be,  like  me,  an  invader  from  simpler  places.  In  the  summer  I  sat  on  Beechen  Cliff  and  watched  the  city  below  my  feet.  The  city  began  to  haunt  me.  More  and  more,  in  the  mists  that  hung,  imperceptibly  frail  and  shifting,  at  the  corners  of  early-morning  streets  and  above  the  hedges  in  the  parks,  I  be-  gan  to  see  Bath  as  it  really  was-made  for  people  long  dead.  The  parks  and  crescents  presented  themselves  to  me  as  if  they  were  the  calm  watercolors  of  the  eighteenth  century.  Autumn  began  to  thin  the  streets.  I  would  sniff  the  air  outside  the  Assembly  Rooms,  certain  I  could  detect  the  pungent  ghost  of  a  vanished  snuff,  blown  away  long  ago  by  two  centuries  of  weather,  its  lost,  rich  smell  an  aroma  of  the  memory  only.  The  world  drove  steadily  into  winter.  In  the  evening,  as  I  walked  over  Pulte-  ney  [REDACTED]  in  the  crisp  dark,  it  seemed  to  me  that  we,  the  living,  were  the  ghosts,  we  the  haunting  shadows,  that  the  city  existed  in  all  its  truth  and  for-  mal  grace  for  older  lives  than  ours.  A  week  before  Christmas  a  muffling  snow  fell  in  the  night  and  silenced  everything.  That  morning  I  went  into  Victoria  Gardens.  It  was  Saturday,  normally  the  busiest  of  days,  but  only  a  few  shop-  ping  women  braved  the  streets,  on  nec-  essary  errands,  and  one  or  two  chil-  dren  stamped  knee-deep  in  the  snow.  It  was  bitterly  cold,  sly  winds  whipping  from  the  curved  surfaces  of  the  snow  a  stinging  powder,  driving  it  against  the  wrists,  against  the  cold  cheeks  and  the  " b"neck.  The  park  was  deserted,  apart  from  a  black  Labrador,  thickset  and  sturdy  against  the  whiteness,  stumping  along  some  way  off.  I  walked  under  the  chestnuts  aimlessly,  head  down  against  the  gusts.  &quot;Hey,Doc,&quot;  cried  a  voice.  &quot;Hey,  Doctor!&quot;  A  big  man  was  sitting  on  one  of  the  park  benches.  He  had  cleared  it  of  snow,  and  he  sat  there,  expansive  and  relaxed,  one  arm  extended  along  the  back,  as  comfortable  as  if  it  were  sum-  mer.  He  sat  there  unmoving  in  the  gray  light,  his  face  under  the  shadow  of  a  wide-brimmed  hat,  a  scarf  knotted  at  his  throat.  &quot;Doc,&quot;  he  called.  &quot;Hey,  come  on  over!&quot;  Even  close  up  I  could  not  see  his  face  clearly,  but  he  was  a  remarkable  man;  his  size  alone  made  him  that.  He  sat  on  the  park  bench  as  I  might  a  footstool.  A  thin  raincoat  was  pulled  across  his  great  body,  one  hand,  as  large  and  white  as  a  plate,  rested  calmly  on  his  knee.  &quot;How  you  keeping,  Doc?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'This  weather  trouble  you?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  seem  to  manage.&quot;  &quot;You  always  was  one  for  keeping  warm,&quot;  the  man  said,  and  chuckled.  &quot;You  always  [REDACTED];  he  said  again.  I  looked  about  me.  The  lawns  were  hidden  under  snow  blown  by  the  in-  constant  wind,  the  trees  at  the  edge  of  the  park  were  insubstantial  as  smoke,  the  dog  had  disappeared.  The  big  man  and  I  were  alone.  I  had  never  seen  him  before.  &quot;Oh,  you  always  could  look  after  yourself,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;When  you  was  in  the  Navy,  Itold  your  father:  don't  worry  about  him,  I  said,  he'll  not  go  short.  He  can  look  after  himself.&quot;  I  had  nothing  to  say.I  stood  in  front  of  the  huge  man  as  he  sat  on  his  bench  near  the  restless  bushes,  He  was  quite  old,  I  thought.  His  feet,  in  worn  black  oxfords,  were  enormous.  I  have  never  been  in  the  Navy.  Suddenly  he  took  his  arm  from  the  back  of  the  bench  and  bent  forward.  I  could  seethe  top  of  his  worn  hat.  There  was  a  black  patch  of  grease  at  the  crown.  &quot;Here,  Doc,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;have  a  look  at  this.&quot;  He  rolled  up  the  right  leg  of  his  trousers.  His  leg  was  bandaged  from  ankle  to  knee,  the  bandage  itself  frayed  and  stained.  &quot;Do  you  think  this  right,&quot;  he  said,  his  voice  indistinct  as  he  bent  down,  unwrapping  the  bandage,  &quot;that  my  leg  should  be  in  this  state?  All  these  years,  in  a  state  like  this?&quot;  He  lifted  his  great  head  and  I  could  look  full  in  his  upturned  face.  He  had  been  very  handsome  and  was  still  im-  pressive-a  face  clear-featured  and  aris-  tocratic,  sensitive,  the  nostrils  high  and  beautifully  formed,  the  mouth  clean-  lipped  and  firm.  But  his  eyes  were  innocent  and  troubled,  like  a  child's  eyes,  like  the  eyes  of  a  child  who  sud-  denly  does  not  understand  the  world.  &quot;I  was  in  the  Navy,  Doctor,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Over  twenty  years,  I  was  a  matelot.  You  know  I  was;  you  saw  me.  Do  you  think  I  ought  to  have  a  leg  like  this?&quot;  He  rubbed  his  sleeve  across  his  face.  His  mouth  began  to  tremble.  &quot;Let's  see  it,&quot;  I  said.  He  straightened  the  leg  in  front  of  me.  The  flesh  was  covered  withrun-  ning  ulcers,  some  as  big  as  a  pinhead,  some  the  size  of  a  man's  palm.  The  whole  world  seemed  to  have  shrunk  to  a  few  square  yards,  a  small,  cold  space  just  large  enough  to  hold  the  old  man  and  me.  He  was  looking  at  me  with  an  unnerving  intensity  of  trust.  &quot;It's  bad,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Quite  bad.&quot;  &quot;What  shall  I  do,  Doc?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Keep  it  warm  and  clean,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Eat  as  well  as  you  can,  get  up  to  the  hospital  and  ask  for  treatment.  Go  there  as  soon  as  you  can  make  it.&quot;  &quot;I  will,&quot;  said  the  big  man.  &quot;I'll  go  today.&quot;  &quot;Wrap  it  up  now,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Don't  let  the  cold  get  at  it.&quot;  &quot;Somehow  it's  easier  in  the  cold  weather,&quot;  he  said,  bending  down  obe-  diently  and  winding  the  narrow  cotton  around  his  shin.  &quot;'The  hot  weather  plays  havoc  with  it.&quot;  There  was  no  reason  I  should  have  said  any  of  this  to  the  old  man.  The  unreality  of  the  situation,  the  feeling  that  the  park  itself  was  taken  from  the  known  world  and  floating  in  limbo,  the  dim  light  and  the  misty  edges  of  the  trees,  the  bitter  cold  which  made  think-  ing  slow  and  inaccurate-all  contrived  to  make  me  accept  a  different  identity,  the  one  recognized  by  the  old  man.  I  turned  away  and  walked  down  the  path.  After  a  few  yards  I  stopped.  I  wanted  to  tell  him  to  make  sure  to  get  to  the  hospital,  that  he  must  demand  treatment.  I  turned  around,  but  he  wasn't  there.  I  ran  back  to  the  bench.  It  was  still  clear  of  snow,  although  a  few  large  flakes  settled  on  it  as  I  stood  there.  I  could  see  where  I  had  stood  in  front  of  the  old  man,  I  could  fit  my  shoes  ex-  actly  into  the  deep,  deep  holes  I  had  made,  and  I  thought  I  could  see  the  enormous  hollows  from  the  old  man's  feet.  I  hurried  into  Royal  Crescent  and  along  Brock  Street.  I  had  never  been  so  cold.  Over  the  Circus  the  heavy  sky  held  a  few  threads  of  ominous  yel-  low  light.  Before  I  reached  home  the  snow  began  in  earnest  again.  THAT  afternoon  I  had  a  letterin-  viting  me  to  accept  a  teaching  job  in  Middlesex-a  job  I'd  always  wanted  and  never  thought  I'd  have.  It  meant  immediate  preparation.  I  telephoned  a  reply  and  began  at  once  to  put  my  af-  fairs  in  order,  to  leave  the  West  Coun-  try.  I  saw  my  landlord,  paid  my  rent,  said  goodbye  to  some  people  I  knew.  I  didn't  own  much-a  few  books,  some  clothes,  a  packet  of  letters,  On  Thurs-  day  the  snow  had  all  gone,  although  the  weather  was  still  unfriendly.  I  walked  over  to  Victoria  Gardens  and  went  right  through,  from  one  gate  to  the  other,  but  there  was  no  sign  of  the  big  man.  The  next  day  I  walked  down  the  hill  toward  the  station,  " b"bought  a  newspaper  at  the  kiosk,  and  waited  for  my  train.  I  was  ready  to  leave;  I  can  remember  now  how  eager  I  was  to  be  gone.  I  walked  up  and  down,  tensely,  lightly,  like  a  sprinter  before  moving  to  his  blocks.  A  fussy  little  engine  came  in  on  the  opposite  track,  a  few  nondescript  country  coaches  be-  hind  it.  The  driver  leaned  from  his  cab  and  shouted  to  me.  He  was  round-  faced,  slow  of  speech,  smiling.  Barney  Eagleton.  He  looked  wonderful.  &quot;How  you  been,  then?&quot;  he  called,  his  voice  rich  as  cream.  His  peaked  cap,  shining  with  oil,  was  perched  comfortably  on  his  head.  He  leaned  his  forearms  on  the  edge  of  his  cab.  &quot;Barney,  you  old  dog,  it's  good  to  see  you.&quot;  We  grinned  at  each  other  across  the  width  of  the  track.  &quot;How's  the  herons?&quot;  I  shouted.  He  stopped  smiling.  &quot;They  chopped  down  them  elms  up  the  line,&quot;  he  called.  &quot;A  lovely  heronry,  that  was-ever  so  old.  Chaps  as  did  it  ought  to  be  shot.  Lovely  birds,  them  was.&quot;  &quot;Ever  see  the  purple  heron,  Bar-  ney?&quot;  I  asked  him.  &quot;Lives  in  537061696e  and  Greece  and  [REDACTED]  and  northern  Italy?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It's  just  the  plain  old  heron  I  see.&quot;  &quot;Or  the  great  white  heron  or  the  squacco  heron  or  the  blue  heron  from  [REDACTED]  America?&quot;  &quot;Ah,  don't,&quot;  said  Barney.  &quot;You'll  drive  me  crazy.&quot;  &quot;Or  the  little  egret  or  the  buff-  backed  heron  or  the  little  bittern-  great  birds  all?&quot;  &quot;What  birds,&quot;  said  Barney,  &quot;what  marvellous  birds!&quot;  I  was  so  pleased  to  see  old  Barney  that  delight  made  me  eloquent.  &quot;The   night  heron,  Barney,&quot;  I  shouted,  &quot;the  beautiful  night  heron  from  the  Medi-terranean,  with  its  red  eyes  and  its  long  drooping  white  crest?&quot; &quot;Splendid  birds,&quot;  Barney  raised  his  voice  to  the  sky.  &quot;All  fine  birds,  and  I  wish  they  all  lived  in  Somerset.&quot;  &quot;  I  grinned  across  the  lines  at  Barney.  &amp;  rung  a  ogden  &quot;When  you  coming  back  to  Yeo-vil?&quot;  he  yelled.  A  guard  blew  his  whistle.  Barney  rolled  his  eyes,  waved,  and  eased  his  engine  out  of  the  station.  I  would  never  go  back  to  Yeovil.  Sooner  or  later  all  heronries  fall.  The  train  that  was  to  take  me  from  the  West  Country  pulled  in  from  Bristol  -   long,  smooth,  efficient  as  a  bullet.  &quot;Gwlad  yr  Haf&quot;  is  what  the  Welsh  call  Somerset-the  Land  of  Summer.  "