 b"I  TOOK  a  trip  to  see  the  beautiful  things.  Change  of  scenery.  Change  of  heart.  And  do  you  know?  What?  They're  still  there.  Ab,  but  they  won't  be  there  for  long.  I  know.  That's  why  I  went.  To  say  goodbye.  Whenever  I  travel,  it's  al-  ways  to  say  goodbye.  Tile  roofs,  timbered  balconies,  fish  in  the  bay,  the  copper  clock,  shawls  drying  on  therocks,  the  delicate  odor  of  olives,  sunsets  behind  the  bridge,  ochre  stone.  &quot;Gardens,  parks,  forests,  woods,  canals,  private  lakes,  with  huts,  villas,  gates,  garden  seats,  gazebos,  alcoves,  grottoes,  hermitages,  triumphal  arches,  chapels,  temples,  [REDACTED],  banqueting  houses,  rotundas,  observatories,  aviaries,  green-  houses,  icehouses,  fountains,  bridges,  buats,  cascades,  baths.&quot;  The  Roman  amphitheatre,  the  Etruscan  sarcophagus.  The  monument  to  the  1914-18  war  dead  in  every  village  square.  You  don't  see  the  military  base.  It's  out  of  town,  and  not  on  the  main  road.  Omens.  The  cloister  wall  has  sprung  a  long  diagonal  crack.  The  water  level  is  rising.  The  marble  saint's  nose  is  no  longer  aquiline.  This  spot.  Some  piety  always  brings  me  back  to  this  spot.I  think  of  all  the  people  who  were  here.  Their  names  scratched  into  the  bottom  of  the  fresco.  Vandals!  Yes.  Their  way  of  being  here.  The  proudest  of  human-made  things  dragged  down  to  the  condition  of  natu-  ral  things.  Last  Judgment.  You  can't  lock  up  all  the  things  in  museums.  Aren't  there  any  beautiful  things  in  your  own  country?  No.  Yes.  Fewer.  Did  you  have  guidebooks,  maps,  timetables,  stout  shoes?  I  read  the  guidebooks  when  I  got  home.  I  wanted  to  stay  with  my-  Immediate  impressions?  You  could  call  them  that.  But  you  did  see  the  famous  places.  You  didn't  perversely  neglect  them.  I  did  see  them.  As  conscientiously  as  I  could  while  protecting  my  ignorance.  Idon't  want  to  know  more  than  I  know,  don't  want  to  get  more  at-  tached  to  them  than  I  already  am.  How  did  you  know  where  to  go?  By  playing  my  memory  like  a  rou-  lette  wheel.  Do  you  remember  what  you  saw?  Not  much.  It  was  too  sad.  I  can't  love  the  past  that's  trapped  within  my  memory  like  a  souvenir.  Object  lessons.  Grecian  urns.  A  pepper-mill  Eiffel  Tower.  Bismarck  beer  mug.  Bay-of-Naples-with-Vesuvi-  us  scarf.  No  souvenirs,  thanks.  Let's  stay  with  the  real  thing.  The  past.  Well,  there's  always  some-  thing  ineffable  about  the  past,  don't  you  think?  In  all  its  original  glory.  The  indis-  pensable  heritage  of  a  woman  of  cul-  ture.  I  agree.  Like  you,  I  don't  consider  devotion  to  the  past  a  form  of  snobbery.  Just  one  of  the  more  disastrous  forms  of  unrequited  love.  I  was  being  wry.  I'm  a  fickle  lover.  It's  not  love  that  the  past  needs  in  order  to  survive,  it's  an  absence  of  choices.  And  armies  of  the  well-off,  im-  mobilized  by  vanity,  greed,  fear  of  scandal,  and  the  inefficiency  and  dis-  comfort  of  travel.  Women  carrying  parasols  and  pearl  handbags,  with  mincing  steps,  long  skirts,  shy  eyes.  Mustached  men  in  top  hats,  lustrous  hair  parted  on  the  left  side,  garters  holding  up  their  silk  socks.  Seconded  by  footmen,  cobblers,  ragpickers,  black-  smiths,  buskers,  printer's  devils,  chim-  ney  sweeps,  lacemakers,  midwives,  cart-  ers,  milkmaids,  stonemasons,  coach-  men,  turnkeys,  and  sacristans.  As  re-  cently  as  that.  All  gone.  The  people.  And  their  pomp  and  circumstance.  Is  that  what  you  think  I  went  to  see?  Not  the  people.  But  their  places,  their  beautiful  things.  You  said  they  were  still  there.  The  hut,  the  hermit-  age,  the  grotto,  the  park,  the  castle.  An  aviary  in  the  Chinese  style.  His  Lordship's  estate.  A  delightful  seclu-  sion  in  the  midst  of  his  impenetrable  woods.  I  wasn't  happy  there.  What  did  you  feel?  Regret  that  the  trees  were  being  cut  down.  So  you  have  a  hazy  vision  of  natural  things.  From  too  much  indulgence  in  the  nervous,  metallic  pleasures  of  cities.  Unequal  to  my  passions.  I  fled  the  lakes,  Ifled  the  woods,  Ifled  the  fields  pulsing  with  glowworms,  I  fled  the  aromatic  mountains.  Provincial  blahs.  Something  less  soli-  tary  is  what  you  need.  I  used  to  say:  Landscapes  interest  me  only  in  relation  to  human  beings.  Ah,  loving  someone  would  give  life  to  all  this.  .  ..  But  the  emotions  that  human  beings  inspire  in  us  also  sadly  resemble  each  other.  The  more  that  places,  cus-  toms,  the  circumstances  of  adventures  are  changed,  the  more  we  see  that  we  amidst  them  are  unchanging.  I  know  all  the  reactions  I  shall  have.  Know  all  the  words  that  I  am  going  to  utter  again.  You  should  have  taken  me  along  in-  stead.  You  mean  him.Yes,  of  course  I  wasn't  alone.  But  we  quarrelled  most  of  the  time.  He  plodding,  I  odious.  They  say.  They  say  a  trip  is  a  good  time  for  repairing  a  damaged  love.  Or  else  it's  the  worst.  Feelings  like  shrapnel  half  worked  out  of  the  wound.  Opinions.  And  competition  of  opinions.  Desperate  amatory  exercises  back  at  the  hotel  on  golden  summer  after-  noons.  Room  service.  How  did  you  let  it  get  that  dreary?  You  were  so  hopeful.  Rubbish!  Prisons  and  hospitals  are  swollen  with  hope.  But  not  charter  flights  and  luxury  hotels.  But  you  were  moved.  Sometimes.  Maybe  it  was  exhaustion.  Sure  I  was.  I  am.  The  inside  of  my  feelings  is  damp  with  tears.  And  the  outside?  ]  Very  dry.  Well-as  dry  as  is  neces-  sary.  You  can't  imagine  how  tiring  it  is.  That  double-membraned  organ  of  nos-  talgia,  pumping  the  tears  in.  Pumping  them  out.  Qualities  of  depth  and  stamina.  And  discrimination.  When  one  can  summon  them.  I'm  bushed.  They  aren't  all  beauti-  ful,  the  beautiful  things.  I've  never  seen  so  many  squabby  Cupids  and  clumsy  Graces.  Here's  a  caf\xc3\xa9.  In  the  caf\xc3\xa9.  The  vil-  lage  priest  playing  the  pinball  machine.  Nineteen-year-old  sailors  with  red  pompons  watching.  Old  gent  with  am-  ber  worry  beads.  Proprietor's  grand-  daughter  doing  her  homework  at  a  deal  table.  Two  hunters  buying  picture  post-  cards  of  stags.  He  says:  You  can  drink  the  acidic  local  wine,  become  a  little  less  odious,  unwind.  Monsieur  Ren\xc3\xa9  says  it  closes  at  five.  Each  picture.  &quot;Each  picture  had  be-  neath  it  a  motto  of  some  good  inten-  " b"tion.  Seeing  that  I  was  looking  careful-  lyat  these  noble  images,  he  said:  'Here  everything  is  natural.&quot;  The  figures  were  all  clothed  like  living  men  and  women,  though  they  were  much  more  beautiful.  Lots  of  light,  lots  of  darkness,  men  and  women  who  are  and  yetare  not.&quot;  Worth  a  detour?  Worth  a  trip!  It's  a  remarkable  collection.  Still  possessed  its  aura.  The  things  positively  impor-  tuned.  The  baron's  zeal  in  explaining.  His  courteous  manner.  Stayed  all  through  the  bombardment.  A  necessary  homogeneity.  Or  else  some  stark,  specific  event.  I  want  to  go  back  to  that  antique  store.  &quot;The  ogival  arch  of  the  doorway  is  Gothic,  but  the  central  nave  and  the  flanking  wings-&quot;  You're  hard  toplease.  Can't  you  imagine  travelling  not  to  accumulate  pleasures  but  to  make  them  rarer?  Satiety  is  not  my  problem.  Nor  is  piety.  There's  nothing  left  but  to  wait  for  our  meals,  like  animals.  Are  you  catching  a  cold?  Drink  this.  I'm  perfectly  all  right.  I  beg  you,  don't  buy  the  catalogue.  Or  the  post-  card-size  reproductions.  Or  the  sailor  sweater.  Don't  be  angry,  but-did  you  tip  Monsieur  Ren\xc3\xa9?  Say  to  yourself  fifty  times  a  day:  I  am  not  a  connoisseur,  I  am  not  a  romantic  wanderer,  I  am  not  a  pil-  grim.  You  say  it.  &quot;A  permanent  partof  mankind's  spiritual  goods.&quot;  Translate  that  for  me.  I  forgot  my  phrase  book.  STILL,  you  saw  what  you  came  to  see.  The  old  victory  of  arrangement  over  accumulation.  But  sometimes  you  were  happy.  Not  just  in  spite  of  things.  Barefoot  on  the  mosaic  floor  of  the  baptistery.  Clambering  above  the  flying  buttresses.  Irradiated  by  a  Baroque  monstrance  shimmering  indistinctly  in  the  growing  dusk  ofthe  cathedral.  Ef-  fulgence  of  things.  Voluminous.  Re-  splendent.  Unutterable  bliss.  You  send  postcards  on  which  you  write  &quot;Bliss.&quot;  Remember?  You  sent  one  to  me.  I  remember.  Don't  stop  me.I'm  flying.  I'm  prowling.  Epiphany.  Hot  tears.  Delirium.  Don't  stop  me.  I  stroke  my  delirium  like  the  balls  of  the  comely  waiter.  You  want  to  make  me  jealous.  Don't  stop  me.  His  dainty  skin,  his  saucy  laughter,  his  way  of  whistling,  the  succulent  dampness  of  his  shirt.  We  went  into  a  shed  behind  the  restau-  rant.  And  I  said:  Enter,  sir,  this  body.  This  body  is  your  castle,  your  cabin,  your  hunting  lodge,  your  villa,  your  carriage,  your  luxury  liner,  your  draw-  ing  room,your  kitchen,  your  speed-  boat,  your  toolshed  .  .  .  Do  you  often  do  that  sort  of  thing  when  he's  around?  Him?  He  was  napping  at  the  hotel.  A  mild  attack  ofheliophobia.  In  the  hotel.  Back  at  the  hotel,  I  woke  him  up.  He  had  an  erection.  I  seated  myself  on  his  loins.  The  nub,  the  hub,  the  fulcrum.  Gravitational  lines  of  force.  In  a  world  of  perfect  daylight.  Indeed,  a  high-noon  world,  in  which  objects  cast  no  shadows.  Only  the  half-wise  will  despise  these  sensations.  I'm  turning.  I'm  a  huge  steering  wheel,  unguided  by  any  human  hand.  I'm  turning  ...  And  the  other  pleasures?  The  ones  you  came  for.  &quot;In  the  entire  visible  world  there  is  hardly  a  more  powerful  mood-impres-  sion  than  that  experienced  within  one  of  the  Gothic  cathedrals  just  as  the  sun  is  setting.&quot;  Pleasures  of  the  eye.  It  had  to  be  emphasized.  &quot;'The  eye  can  see  nothing  beyond  those  glimmering  figures  that  hover  overhead  to  the  west  in  stern,  solemn  rows  as  the  burning  evening  sun  falls  across  them.&quot;  Messengers  of  temporal  and  spiritual  infinity.  &quot;The  sensation  of  fire  permeates  all,  " b"and  the  colors  sing  out,  rejoicing  and  sobbing.&quot;  There,  in  truth,  is  a  different  world.  I  found  a  wonderful  old  Baede-  ker,  with  lots  of  things  that  aren't  in  the  Michelin.  Lef's.  Let's  visit  the  caves.  Unless  they're  closed.  Let's  visit  the  World  War  I  cem-  etery.  Let's  watch  the  regatta.  This  spot.  He  committed  suicide  right  here,  by  the  lake.  With  his  fianc\xc3\xa9e.  In  1811.  I  seduced  a  waiter  in  the  restaurant  by  the  port  two  days  ago.  He  said.  He  said  his  name  was  Arrigo.  I  love  you.  And  my  heart  is  pound-  ing.  So  is  mine.  What's  important  is  that  we're  stroll-  ing  in  this  arcade  together.  That  we're  strolling.  That  we're  looking.  That  it's  beautiful.  Object  lessons.  Give  me  that  suit-  case,  it's  heavy.  One  must  be  careful  not  to  wonder  if  these  pleasures  are  superior  to  last  year's  pleasures.  They  never  are.  That  must  be  the  seduction  of  the  past  again.  But  just  wait  until  now  be-  comes  then.  You'll  see  how  happy  we  were.  I'm  not  expecting  to  be  happy.  Com-  plaints.  I've  already  seen  it.  I'm  sure  it'll  be  full.  It's  too  far.  You're  driving  too  fast,  I  can't  see  anything.  Only  two  showings  of  the  movie,  at  seven  and  at  nine.  There's  a  strike,  I  can't  telephone.  This  damned  siesta,  nothing's  open  be-  tween  one  and  four.  If  everything  came  out  of  this  suitcase,  I  don't  under-  stand  why  I  can't  cram  it  all  back  in.  You'll  soon  stop  fretting  over  these  mingy  impediments.  You'll  realize  you're  carefree,  without  obligations.  And  then  the  unease  will  start.  Like  those  upper-middle-class  Prot-  estant  folk  who  experience  revelations,  become  hysterical,  suffer  breakdowns  under  the  disorienting  impact  of  Med-  iterranean  light  and  Mediterranean  manners.  You're  still  thinking  about  the  waiter.  I  said  I  love  you,  I  trust  you,  I  didn't  mind.  You  shouldn't.  I  don't  want  that  kind  of  revelation.  I  don't  want  tosat-  isfy  my  desire,  I  want  to  exasperate  it.  I  want  to  resist  the  temptation  of  mel-  ancholy,  my  dear.  If  you  only  knew  how  much.  Then  you  must  stop  this  flirtation  with  the  past  invented  by  poets  and  curators.  We  can  forget  about  their  old  things.  We  can  buy  their  postcards,  eat  their  food,  admire  their  sexual  nonchalance.  We  can  march  in  their  workers'  festivals  and  sing  the  &quot;Internationale,&quot;  for  even  we  know  the  words.  I'm  feeling  perfectly  all  right.  I  think  it's  safe  to.  Pick  up  hitchhikers,  drink  un-  bottled  water,  try  to  score  some  hash  in  the  piazza,  eat  the  mussels,  leave  the  camera  in  the  car,  hang  out  in  waterfront  bars,  trust  the  hotel  concierge  to  make  the  reservation,  don't  you?  Something.  Don't  you  want  to  do  something?  Does  every  country  have  a  tragic  history  ex-  cept  ours?  This  spot.  See?  There's  a  commemorative  plaque.  Between  the  windows.  Ruined.  Ruined  by  too  many  decades  of  intrepid  appreciation.  Nature,  the  whore,  cooperates.  The  crags  of  the  Dolomites  made  too  pink  by  the  sun,  the  water  of  the  lagoon  made  too  silver  by  the  moon,  the  blue  skies  of  Greece  (or  Sicily)  made  too  deep  a  blue  by  the  arch  in  a  white  wall.  Ruins.  These  are  ruins  left  from  the  last  war.  Antiquarian  effrontery:  our  pretty  dwelling.  It  was  a  convent,  built  according  to  a  plan  drawn  up  by  Michelangelo.  Turned  into  a  hotel  in  1927.  Don't  expect  the  natives  to  take  care  of  the  beautiful  things.  I  don't.  They  say.  They  say  they're  going  to  fill  in  the  canal  and  make  it  a  highway,  sell  the  duchess's  rococo  chapel  to  a  sheikh  in  [REDACTED],  build  a  condominium  on  that  bluff  with  a  stand  of  pine,  open  a  boutique  in  the  fishing  village,  put  a  sound-and-light  show  in  the  ghetto.  It's  going  fast.  International  Committee.  Attempting  to  preserve.  Under  the  pa-  tronage  of  His  Excellency  and  the  Hon-  orable.  Going  fast.  You'll  have  to  run.  Will  I  have  to  run?  Then  let  them  go.  Life  is  not  a  race.  Or  else  it  is.  Anymore.  Isn't  it  a  pity  they  don't  write  out  the  menus  in  purple  ink  any-  " b"more.  That  you  can't  put  your  shoes  outside  the  hotel  room  at  night.  Re-  member.  Those  outsize  bills,  the  kind  they  had  until  the  devaluation.  Last  time.  There  weren't  as  many  cars  last  time,  were  there?  HOW  could  you  stand  it?  It  was  easier  than  it  sounds.  With  an  imagination  like  a  pillar  of  fire.  And  a  heart  like  a  pillar  of  salt.  And  you  want  to  break  the  tie.  Right.  Lot's  wife!  But  his  lover.  I  told  you.  I  told  you,  you  should  have  taken  me  along  instead.  Lingering.  In  the  basilica.  In  the  garden  behind  the  inn.  In  the  spice  market.  In  bed,  in  the  middle  of  the  golden  afternoon.  Because.  It's  because  of  the  fumes  from  the  petrochemical  factories  near-  by.  It's  because  they  don't  have  enough  guards  forthe  museums.  &quot;Iwo  groups  of  statuary,  one  de-  picting  virtuous  toil,  the  other  un-  bridled  licentiousness.&quot;  Do  you  realize  how  much  prices  have  gone  up?  Appalling  inflation.  I  can't  conceive  how  people  here  man-  age.  With  rents  almost  as  high  as  back  home  and  salaries  half.  &quot;On  the  left  of  the  main  road,  the  Tomb  of  the  Reliefs  (the  so-called  Tomba  Bella)  is  entered.  On  the  walls  round  the  niches  and  on  the  pillars,  the  favorite  objects  of  the  dead  and  domestic  articles  are  reproduced  in  painted  stucco  relief:  dogs,  hel-  mets,  swords,  leggings,  shields,  knapsacks  and  haversacks,  bowls,  a  jug,  a  couch,  pincers,  a  saw,  knives,  kitchen  vessels  and  uten-  sils,  coils  of  rope,  etc.&quot;  I'm  sure.  I'm  sure  she  was  a  prostitute.  Did  you  look  at  her  shoes?  I'm  sure  they're  giving  a  concert  in  the  cathedral  tonight.  Plus  they  said.  Three  stars,  I'm  sure  they  said  it  had  three  stars.  This  spot.  This  is  where  they  shot  the  scene  in  that  movie.  Quite  unspoiled.  I'm  amazed.  I  was  expecting  the  worst.  They  rent  mules.  Of  course,.  Every  wage  earn-  er  in  the  country  gets  five  weeks'  paid  vacation.  The  women  age  soquickly.  [REDACTED].  It's  the  second  summer  for  the  Ministry  of  Tourism's  &quot;Be  [REDACTED]&quot;  campaign.  This  country  where  ruined  marvels  litter  the  ground.  It  says.  It  says  it's  closed  for  restoration.  It  says  you  can't  swim  there  anymore.  Pollution.  They  said.  I  don't  care.  Come  on  in.  The  wa-  ter's  almost  as  warm  as  the  Caribbean.  I  want  you,  I  feel  you.  Lick  my  neck.  Slip  off  your  trunks.  Let  me  ...  Let's.  Let's  go  back  to  the  hotel.  &quot;The  treatment  of  space  in  Man-  nerist  architecture  and  painting  shows  this  change  from  the  'closed'  Renais-  sance  world  order  to  the  'open,'  &quot;loose,&quot;  and  deviating  motions  in  the  Mannerist  universe.&quot;  What  are  you  trying  to  tell  me?  &quot;The  harmony,  intelligibility,  and  coherence  of  the  Renaissance  world  view  were  inherent  in  the  symmetrical  courtyards  of  Italian  palaces.&quot;  I  don't  want  to  flatter  my  intelli-  gence  with  evidence,  If  you  don't  want  to  look  at  the  painting,  look  at  me.  See  the  sign?  You  can't  take  the  boat  that  way.  We're  getting  near  the  nuclear-submarine  base.  Reports.  Five  cases  of  cholera  have  been  reported.  This  piazza  has  been  called  a  stage  for  heroes.  It  gets  much  cooler  at  night.  You  have  to  wear  a  sweater.  Thanks  to  the  music  festival  every  summer.  You  should  see  this  place  in  the  winter.  It's  dead.  The  trial  is  next  week,  so  now  they're  having  demonstrations.  Can't  you  see  the  banner?  And  listen  to  that  song.  Let's not.  I'm  sure  it's  a  clip  joint.  They  said.  Sharks,  I  think  they  said.  Not  the  hydrofoil.  I  know  it's  faster,  but  they  make  me  sick.  a  HE  sun  having  mounted  and  the  heat  elsewhere  too  extreme  for  us,  we  have  retired  to  the  tree-shaded  courtyard.&quot;  It's  not  that  I  loved  him.  But,  in  a  certain  hour  of  physical  fa-  tigue  ...  At  the  mercy  of  your  moods.  Contented  sometimes.  Even  blissful.  Doesn't  sound  like  it,  Sounds  like  struggling  to  savor.  Maybe.  Loss  of  judgment  in  the  necropolis.  Reports.  There's  a  civil  war  raging  in  the  north,  The  Liberation  Front's  leader  is  still  in  exile.  Rumors  that  the  dictator  has  had  a  stroke.  But  every-  thing  seems  so-  Calm?  I  guess  .  ..  calm.  This  spot.  On  this  spot  they  mas-  sacred  three  hundred  students.  I'd  better  go  with  you.  You'll  have  to  bargain.  I'm  starting  to  like  the  food.  You  get  used  to  it  after  a  while.  Don't  you?  In  the  oldest  paintings  there  is  a  complete  absence  of  chiaroscuro.  I  feel  well  here.  There's  not  so  much  to  see.  &quot;Below  the  molding,  small  leafy  trees,  from  which  hang  wreaths,  rib-  bons,  and  various  objects,  alternate  with  figures  of  men  dancing.  One  man     " b"is  lying  on  the  ground,  playing  the  double  flute.&quot;  Cameras.  The  women  don't  like  to  be  photographed.  We  may  need  a  guide.  It's  a  book  on  the  treasures  they  un-  earthed.  Pictures,  bronzes,  and  lamps.  That's  the  prison  where  they  torture  political  suspects.  Terror  incognita.  Covered  with  flies.  That  poor  child.  Did  you  see?  Omens.  The  power  failure  yester-  day.  New  graffiti  on  the  monument  this  morning.  Tanks  grinding  along  the  boulevard  at  noon.  They  sey.  They  say  the  radar  at  the  airport  has  been  out  for  the  last  seventy-two  hours.  They  say  the  dictator  has  recovered  from  his  heart  attack.  No,  bottled  water.  Hardier  folk.  Quite  different  vegetation.  And  the  way  they  treat  women  here!  Beasts  of  burden.  Hauling  those  sacks  up  azure  hills  on  which-  They're  building  a  ski  station.  They're  phasing  out  the  leprosarium.  Look  at  his  face.  He's  trying  to  talk  to  you.  Of  course  we  could  live  here,priv-  ileged  as  we  are.  It  isn't  our  country.  I  don't  even  mind  being  robbed.  &quot;The  sunhaving  mounted  and  the  heat  elsewhere  too  extreme  for  us,  we  have  retired  to  the  shade  of  an  oasis.&quot;  SOMETIMES  I  did  love  him.  Still,  in  a  certain  hour  of  mental  fatigue  ...  At  the  mercy  of  your  moods.  My  undaunted  caresses,  My  churl-  ish  silences.  You  were  trying  to  mend  an  error.  I  was  trying  to  change  my  plight.  I  told  you,  you  should  have  taken  me  along  instead.  It  wouldn't  havebeen  different.  I  went  on  from  there  alone.  I  would  have  left  you,  too.  Mornings  of  departure.  With  every-  thing  prepared.  Sun  rising  over  the  most  majestic  of  bays  (Naples,  Rio,  or  Hong  Kong).  But  you  could  decide  to  stay.  Make  new  arrangements.  Would  that  make  you  feel  free?  Or  would  you  feel  you'd  spurned  something  irreplaceable?  The  whole  world.  That's  because  it's  later  rather  than  earlier.  &quot;At  the  beginning  of  the  world,  everything  was  America.&quot;  How  far  from  the  beginning  are  we?  When  did  we  first  start  to  feel  the  wound?  This  staunchless  wound,  the  great  longing  for  another  place.  To  make  this  place  another.  In  a  mosque  at  Damietta  stands  a  " b"column  that,  if  you  lick  it  until  your  tongue  bleeds,  will  cure  you  of  rest-  lessness.  It  must  bleed.  A  curious  word  wanderlust.  ready  to  go.  I've  already  gone.  Regretfully,  ex-  ultantly.  A  prouder  lyricism.  It's  not  Paradise  that's  lost.  Advice.  Move  along,  let's  get  crack-ing,  don't  hold  me  down,  he  travels  fastest  who  travels  alone.  Let's  get  the  show  on  the  road.  Get  up,  slugabed.  I'm  clearing  out  of  here.  Get  your  ass  in  gear.  Sleep  fast,  we  need  the  pillow.  She's  racing,  he's  stalling.  If  I  go  this  fast,  I  won't  see  any-  thing,.  If  I  slow  down-  Everything.  -then  I  won't  have  seen  everything  before  it  disappears.  Everywhere.  I've  been  everywhere.  I  haven't  been  everywhere,  but  it's  on  my  list.  Lands  end.  But  there's  water,  O  my  heart.  And  salt  on  my  tongue.  The  end  of  the  world.  This  is  not  the  end  of  the  world. "