 b"FERGUsON,  a  divorced,  middle-  Faged  man,  discovered  in  the  blue  ground  of  his  midnight  brain  cer-  tain  bright  moments  that  never  failed  to  make  him  feel  terrible.  Guilty.  One  gem  showed  his  younger  son,  at  that  time  about  fourteen,  in  tearful  exasperation  throwing  two  cats  down  the  cellar  stairs.  The  enveloping  situa-  tion  was  this:  Ferguson's  doctor  had  strongly  advised  him,  for  the  sake  of  his  asthma,  to  get  rid  of  the  cats.  &quot;But  they're  the  children's  pets,&quot;  Ferguson  had  said.  &quot;We  can't  just  get  rid  of  them.&quot;  &quot;Get  rid  of  them,&quot;  his  doctor  had  said,  &quot;''Those  cats  are  suffocating  you.&quot;  &quot;'They  don't  mean  to,&quot;  Ferguson  had  pointed  out.  &quot;They  can't  help  mak-  ing  dander.&quot;  &quot;Tell  Eileen  to  get  rid  of  them.  Tell  Eileen  it's  either  you  or  those  cats.&quot;  &quot;I've  told  her,  and  she  says  the  chil-  dren  love  the  cats.  She's  right.  She's  al-  ways  right.  W  hat  can  we  do?&quot;  His  doctor  then  had  peered  at  him  through  the  upper  half  of  his  bifocals.  Returning  his  eyes  to  the  record  he  was  making  of  this  visit,  he  muttered,  &quot;It  would  help  to  keep  them  down  in  the  cellar.&quot;  But  the  cats  had  been  used  to  the  run  of  the  house  and  always  found  ways  to  evade  their  confinement.  They  would  writhe  out  through  a  loose  cellar  window  and  come  in  through  the  kitch-  en  door  with  the  milkman,  or  a  visit-  ing  child,  or  with  Eileen  when  she  had  her  hands  full.  Ferguson's  asthma  con-  tinued  bad.  He  was  clogging  his  lungs  with  the  Medihaler;  his  hands  trem-  bled.  Only  his  younger  son  recognized  the  emergency:  it  was  his  father  or  the  cats.  Since  the  cats  could  be  neither  killed  nor  controlled,  Ferguson  would  have  to  leave.  He  had  already  made  his  decision  when,  one  day  otherwise  alto-  gether  forgotten,  he  saw  the  boy  so  desperately  trying  to  keep  the  animals  in  the  cellar  and  his  father  in  the  house.  Had  Ferguson  imagined  his  son's  tears  of  despairing  fury?  He  thought  not;  there  has  to  be  some  shine  of  the  extreme,  to  make  a  guilt-gem.  Months  later,  he  had  left,  and  one  of  the  duties  that  had  fallen  to  him  in  the  breakup  was  the  driving  of  his  older  son  back  to  his  boarding  school,  in  south-  ern  New  Hampshire.  It  was  usually  a  Sunday  night,  and  the  night  he  remem-  bered  must  have  been  in  winter,  for  there  seemed  to  be  ice  everywhere.  In  the  car,  they  had  tried  to  talk;  Fergu-  son  had  tried  to  thank  the  boy,  for  continuing  to  go  to  his  classes,  to  pass  his  exams,  to  play  on  the  hockey  team,  to  grow.  For  Ferguson's  dereliction  loomed  to  him  so  large  that  he  saw  it  as  a  blanket  permission  for  all  the  dere-  lictions  in  the  world.  The  boy  had  lis-  tened  in  a  silence  that  became  wet  and  warm  and  heavy-breathing,  and  when  Ferguson  mentioned  the  name  of  the  woman,  not  the  child's  mother,  that  he  was  seeing,  the  boy  said  &quot;Yeah&quot;  with  the  quickness  of  a  sucked  breath.  He  knew  enough  and  wanted  to  know  no  more:  it  was  the  kind  of  signal  one  man  gives  another.  Yet  at  the  destination,  in  the  dark  cold  spaces  of  the  campus,  after  unload-  ing  from  the  car  some  piece  of  the  bulky  equipment-ski  boots,  ora  gui-  tar-essential  to  an  American  male  adolescent,  the  boy  kissed  him  goodbye.  The  lit  windows  of  the  dormitories  glowed  all  about  them.  The  kiss  was  like  a  little  spot  warmed  through  a  frosty  windowpane.  Through  it  Fergu-  son  saw  how  the  boy's  room  felt  to  him,  as  haven-haven,  amid  the  Escher  prints  and  motorcycle  posters,  the  hi-fi  sets  and  horseplay-scarred  walls,  from  the  horror  of  having  parents.  Also  in  this  period,  his  younger  daughter,  his  baby,  still  bearing  baby  fat,  yet  with  a  woman's  heart-shaped  face,  across  the  net  from  him  at  tennis  bravely  announced,  as  she  hit  the  ball  with  a  clumsy  forehand,  &quot;I  think  you're  very  selfish.&quot;  The  &quot;self&quot;  stood  out  twangingly  in  the  memory,  the  sweet  spot  of  the  sentence.  The  ball  was  out.  He  called  it  in.  It  was  this  false  call,  oddly,  that  had  crystallized.  Her  accu-  sation  had  the  flaw  that  it  was  meant  to  make  him  feel  guilty;  and  such  a  moment  is  to  the  real  thing  as  a  cul-  tured  pearl  is  to  the  found  pearl.  His  older  daughter  had  married  soon  after  his  divorce,  as  if  to  keep  a  mar-  riage  in  the  family.  She  had  been  his  child  longer  than  any;  she  had  taken  the  full  brunt  of  his  parental  ineptitude.  Once,  he  had  twirled  her  by  the  hands  so  hard  that  her  little  wristbones  audibly  snapped,  though  X-rays  at  the  hospital  showed  no  fracture.  On  another  occa-  sion  of  acrobatic  foolery,  she  had  bitten  him  on  the  leg  to  get  him  to  stop  hold-  ing  her  upside  down.  Worse  than  these  shameful  incidents,  however,  loomed  a  childish  softball  game  he  had  played  as  pitcher  for  two  teams  of  children,  his  own  and  a  neighbor's.  For  some  rea-  son,  the  neighbor's  children  feasted  off  his  underhand  offerings,  pounding  hit  after  hit  into  the  tall  grass  of  the  outfield.  His  own  children  chased  the  ball  until  they  were  red  in  the  face,  while  those  loathsome  little  opponents  jeeringly  rounded  the  bases.  When  at  last  the  young  Fergusons'  turn  at  bat  came,  the  very  intensity  of  their  father's  wish  to  serve  up  fat  pitch-  es  must  have  put  something  baffling  on  the  ball,  for  they  unaccountably  hit  pop-ups  and  dribblers,  A  ball  bounced  out  to  the  mound  and  Ferguson  had  no  choice  but  to  field  it  and  chase  down  his  older  daughter  as  she  raced  from  first  to  second.  The  child  didn't  have  a  chance;  his  legs  were  longer.  He  could  think  of  no  way  not  to  make  the  play.  In  the  moment  before  the  tag,  she  looked  at  him  with  a  smile,  a  smile  pre-  served  as  in  amber  by  a  childish  wild  plea  on  her  face.  She  was  out.  And  now,  though  all  the  other  play-  ers  of  that  day  had  grown  much  larger,  and  whatever  expression  he  had  worn  in  that  moment  had  faded  forever  from  his  daughter's  mind,  her  bright  helpless  face  hovering  above  her  hurrying  body  had  lost  none  of  its  lustre  for  Ferguson,  none  of  its  edge,  and  immutably  in-  vested  him  with  shame,  with  an  urgent  futile  need  to  undo,  whenever  he  held  this  moment  against  the  blue  light  of  midnight.  Guilt,for  those  prone  to  it,  need  not  attach  to  conduct  generally  judged  reprehensible.  Had  Ferguson  deliber-  ately  dropped  the  ball,  had  he  mot  tagged  his  daughter  out,  that  would  have  been  reprehensible.  In  himself  he  detected,  like  the  background  radio  noise  that  underlies  the  universe  and  apparently  is  still  transmitting  the  big  bang  of  its  creation,  a  pervasive  cease-  less  guilt  in  regard  to  his  children  for  having  called  them  into  being  at  all.  Just  to  see  one  of  them  walk  across  a  high-school  stage  to  receive  a  diploma,  or  up  a  church  aisle  to  get  married,  or  into  the  thick  of  a  college  soccer  game  on  an  overcast  November  Saturday,  was  to  spangle  his  insides  with  terror,  Contrariwise,  while  it  was  widely  " b"agreed  he  had  treated  his  ex-wife  reprehensibly,  her  image  shed  his  guilt  asa  seal  sheds  droplets  of  water.  In  his  dreams  she  floated  lithe  and  uncom-  plaining,  and  about  ten  years  younger  than  she  really  was.  He  did  remember  this:  at  some  point  intheir  separation,  Eileen  had  put  her  arms  around  him  in  their  old  kitchen,  overcome  by  the  sight  of  him  once  more  leaving,  and  had  sobbed;  and  by  sympathetic  pumping  action  her  belly  beat  against  his  like  a  heart.  Like  a  heart;  more  background  noise,  momentarily  amplified  by  a  de-  fect  in  his  automatic  deafener.  His  mother,  now  old,  and  he,  now  single,  had  flown  to  England  together  for  a  trip;  she  had  always  wanted  to  see  TinternAbbey.  But  she  lived  in  southern  New  Jersey  and  he  had  holed  up  in  [REDACTED],  so  from  Kennedy  Airport  she  had  to  drive  home  alone,  while  he  took  a  shuttle  flight  in  theopposite  di-  rection.  Worse,  he  drove  himself  in  her  car  to  LaGuardia,  giving  her  the  wheel  with  all  of  Queens  and  [REDACTED]  be-  tween  her  and  the  route  home.  Could  she  make  it,  in  the  Sunday  traffic  of  megalopolis,  tired  as  she  was  from  the  trip?  As  when  he  had  fielded  the  soft-  ball  and  his  daughter  was  racing  from  first  to  second,  he  couldn'tthink  what  else  to  do.  But  tag  her.  But  abandon  her.  It  was  a  raw  spring  evening  in  the  eastern  United  [REDACTED].  Rain  bejewelled  the  windshield  and  there  was  just  enough  light  left  for  her  to  make  the  Verrazano  [REDACTED].  Ferguson  studied  the  map.  &quot;278,  Mother,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;J  ust  stay  on  278  [REDACTED],  no  matter  what.&quot;  [REDACTED],&quot;  she  said,  faintly,  from  agreat  distance  away,  behind  the  wheel.  The  distance  between  them,  after  their  week  together,  had  suddenly  become  the  distance  between  one  who  must  fly  and  one  who  must  drive,  be-  tween  one  who  must  submit  and  one  who  must  steer.  She  was  seventy-two.  A  sea  of  damp  metal  surrounded  her.  It  had  been  sunny-that  golden,  almost  mintable  sunshine  of  poems-at  Tintern  Abbey.  &quot;Stay  in  your  lane,&quot;  he  told  her.  &quot;If  anybody  honks,  ignore  them.&quot;  &quot;''They  might  be  trying  to  tell  me  something.&quot;  'They  have  nothing  to  tell  you,&quot;  he  told  her.  &quot;Don't  change  lanes  without  looking,  is  all.&quot;  &quot;Once  I  get  to  the  turnpike,  I'll  be  all  right,&quot;  she  offered.  &quot;278  [REDACTED]  will  take  you  there,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Mother,  maybe  you  should  stay  in  a  motel.  Maybe  I  should  drive  with  you  and  fly  from  Philly.&quot;  &quot;Don't  be  silly,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;The  light's  fading.  I  can  do  it.  My  goodness.  I  just  stay  on  278.&quot;  &quot;[REDACTED],&quot;  he  said.  Sitting  behind  the  wheel,  she  was  trembling;  more  than  trembling-she  was  filling  the  interior  of  the  car  with  the  anticipatory  vibrations  of  a  girl  be-  fore  a  dance.  Her  cheek,  as  he  leaned  over  to  kiss  it,  was  stretched  smooth  by  fear,  and  he  could  smell  perfume,  the  perfume  our  nerves  give  off  above  a  certain  pitch  of  tension.  He  pulled  his  suitcase  out  of  the  car  and  slammed  the  door.  As  she  haltingly  pulled  into  the  roadway,  in  the  dusk,  in  the  rain,  a  car  honked,  and  then  another.  How  young  her  face  had  become  at  the  last!  Smooth  and  oval,  with  a  half-  laugh  on  her  lips.  That  same  half-laugh  was  in  her  voice  when,  three  hours  later,  she  had  called  [REDACTED],  &quot;No  mis-  " b"haps,&quot;  she  told  him.  &quot;Just  a  thunder-  storm  over  [REDACTED].  It  got  so  dark  I  thought  my  eyesight  was  failing.  I  felt  my  age.&quot;  &quot;How  do  you  like  it?&quot;  he  had  asked,  of  feeling  one's  age.  He  was  genuinely  curious.  He  saw  her  now  as  his  forward  scout  in  the  wilderness  of  time.  With  a  lilt  quite  unexpected,  dipping  into  some  spring  of  girlish  enthusiasm  predating  his  birth,  she  answered,  &quot;I  hate  it!&quot;  and  did  laugh.  Her  face,  the  parting  kiss,  his  sense  of  perfume  remained  to  torment  him.  His  constant  guilt  had  here  compressed,  her  about-to-be-abandoned  face  a  crys-  tallization  of  the  seducer's  shame  he  had  failed  to  feel  on  other,  more  plausible  occasions.  A  guilt-gem  is  a  piece  ofthe  world  that  has  volunteered  for  compression.  Those  souls  around  us,  living  our  lives  with  us,  are  gaseous  clouds  of  being  awaiting  a  condensation  and  preserva-  tion-faces,  lights  that  glimmer  out,  somehow  not  seized,  save  in  this  gesture  of  remorse.  Sifting  them  through  his  brain,  Ferguson  would  grow  dulled  to  their  glitter,  indifferent  to  life  and  able  to  sleep.  He  had  been  a  bully  since  his  first  cry  for  milk,  and  had  continued  a  tyrant.  He  had  tripped  an  infant  play-  mate  so  the  boy's  head  strucka  radiator  and  gushed  blood.  He  had  told  lies,  about  an  imaginary  pet  dog,  in  Sunday  school.  He  had  teased  his  father,  once  pretending  to  start  the  car  while  the  old  man  was  putting  a  tire  in  the  trunk,  making  the  crowd  of  kids  on  the  luncheonette  steps  laugh.  Lord,  what  a  treasure!  Greater  than  Fafner's,  a  lode  that  goes  down  and  down.  Ferguson  was  further  soothed  by  this  discovery:  in  amassing  these  guilt-gems,  in  re-  ducing  the  matrical  terror  and  grave  displacement  of  his  existence  to  a  few  baubles  he  could,  as  it  were,  put  in  his  pocket  and  jingle,  he  was,  further,  guilty.  "