 b"THESE  days  if  you  press  Bobby too  closely  about  his  energy  budget,  Bobby  will  get  too  anx-  ious,  Bobby  has  been  under  a  lot  of  pressure.  We  have  had  to  line  his  office  with  long  strips  of  absorbent  cotton-  like  the  cotton  found  at  the  topsof  vita-  min  jars  but  dyed  black-to  keep  out  the  noise  and  light.  Bobby  has  not  had  time  for  a  haircut  or  a  manicure,  and  he  is  a  little  depressed  about  his  ap-  pearance,  His  fingernails,  which  real-  ly  are  much  too  long  at  this  point,  go  click-click-click  on  the  keys  of  his  type-  writer  when  he  sits  down  at  his  type-  writer  to  type  up  his  Energy  Budget  forthe  Eighties.  Sometimes  just  that  sound  (click-click-click)  is  enough  to  distress  Bobby  and  he  has  to  go  back  into  semi-seclusion.  We  have  suggested  that  Bobby  dictate  his  Energy  Budget  for  the  Eighties  to  one  of  us,  but  Bobby  doesn't  trust  us  completely  for  a  job  of  this  sensitivity.  The  Entertainment  Group  has  suf-  fered  most.  GeoffreyNalendo,  man-  ager  of  several  of  our  rock  bands,  has  tried  to  get  Bobby's  O.K.  for  a  spring  tour  for  three  of  the  new  violent  bands  Bobby  was  able  to  sign  when  his  finger-  nails  were  short;  but  Bobby  just  defers  EAGHTIES  and  defers  and  defers,  and  the  final  disposition-whether  to  go  to  Aus-  tralia,  New  Zealand,  across  the  indus-  trial  tier,  or  just  to  the  New  Jersey  death-rock  clubs-has  yet  to  be  made,  and  the  bands  are  very  restless,  espe-  cially  the  Dead  Geese,  who  could  be  very  hot  if  they  got  the  exposure,  plus  a  real  effort  made  for  air  play,  plus  product  in  the  stores.  Geoffrey  Nalen-  do  has  had  to  keep  a  lot  of  the  musicians  under  permanent  sedation  in  order  to  prevent  them  from  getting  violently  angry  over  the  delay  in  promoting  their  careers.  So,  you  see,  from  our  end  it  is  completely  a  holding  action  until  Bobby  finishes  his  Energy  Budget  for  the  Eighties.  The  idea  that  Bobby  is  pur-  posely  delaying  the  release  of  his  energy  budget  is  really  not  sensible,  given  the  terrible  strain  that  Bobby's  whole  or-  ganization  is  going  through.  I'll  run  down  some  ofthe  things  that  have  come  up  so  far  to  delay  the  energy  budget.  I  won't  go  into  every  single  detail,  but  I  will  give  all  the  broad  strokes.  First  of  all,  Bobby  has  felt  a  little  fat  lately-rolls  of  excess  and  so  forth  surrounding  nearly  every-  thing  he's  done.  Bobby  thinks  that  he  should  be  having  a  trim  experience  while  he  works  on  his  energy  budget.  This  has  presented  very  real  problems,  because  Bobby  is  able  to  eat  only  cer-  tain  foods,  many  of  which  are  high  in  bulk  but  very  low  in  nutrients.  Also,  exercise  has  been  difficult,  because  Bob-  by  doesn't  completely  trust  us  and  re-  fuses  to  be  strapped  into  the  special  ex-  erciser  we  had  made  for  him.  Once,  just  for  a  joke,  we  did  keep  him  in  his  special  exerciser  a  little  longer  than  was  really  comfortable  for  him,  and  I  guess  that  preys  on  his  mind.  There  have  been  other  things,  which  I  will  just  quickly  run  through.  Rich  men  being  abducted  in  4974616c79:  the  statis-  tics  worried  Bobby,  and  to  get  him  back  to  work  we  had  to  export  certain  of  his  friends  from  4974616c79  to  keep  those  abduc-  tion  statistics  from  going  right  over  the  top.  Then  the  day-to-day  affairs  of  the  Sulfurlands  Sportscomplex  took  up  a  lot  of  his  time:  stock  raids  on  the  Kronos  soccer  team,  special  considerations  for  the  award-winning  forwards  (their  personal  lives-divorce  from  unsuitable  starlets  and  so  forth),  all  of  which  had  to  be  handled  by  Bobby  personally,  be-  cause  only  he  really  has  the  clout.  Then  there  was  the  question  of  a  possible  buy-  out  by  Multi-Promo  (Bobby's  holding  company)  of  all  outside-held  Kronos  stock  in  the  Sulfurlands  umbrella  or-  ganization  (which  had  to  be  approved  by  both  governors,  because  of  Sulfurlands'  bistate  mandate);  and  then  there  was  the  dissolu-  tion  of  the  Great  Gam-  ble  Underwater  Safari  Park  (because  of  revo-  cation  of  its  casino  li-  cense  )  and  the  resale  of  its  assets  to  the  54  Fifth  Avenue  Corporation,  which  is  Bobby's  real-  estate  trust.  All  of  this  took  a  lot  of  time.  Meanwhile,  Doris  Bison,  Bobby's  wife,  whom  Bobby  resettled  in  the  Canadian  west  in  the  late  nineteen-  fifties,  began  to  make  a  lot  of  noise-speaking  to  the  papers  and  so  forth,  and  dragging  up  the  whole  Bison  Tool  Company  business  (Doris  holds  stock  in  Bison  Tool  but  not  in  Multi-Promo,  which  was  formed  in  the  early  sixties  after  Bobby  and  Doris  separated  ),  with  Doris  saying  she  had  information  that  Bobby  " b"purposely  drained  the  assets  of  Bison  Tool  for  the  benefit  of  Multi-Promo  (or,  more  accurately,  forthe  benefit  of  Sea  Gull  Management,  Bobby's  talent  agency,  a  wholly  owned  sub-  sidiary  of  Multi-Promo),  and  suing  for  damages.  We  have  all  urged  Bobby  to  sue  for  divorce  from  Doris,  because  we  could  get  plenty  of  evidence  from  members  of  the  Kronos  soccer  team  aboutDoris  on  the  road  and  so  forth,  but  Bobby  hates  divorce  and  won't  go  along.  HE  biggest  difficulty  has  had  to  do  with  the  Bobby  Bison  Afford-  ables.  In  the  late  sixties  (just  about  the  time  Bobby  was  phasing  out  Bison  Tool  as  his  main  organization  and  forming  Multi-Promo  to  facilitate  his  move  away  from  hardware  and  so  forth  into  service-oriented  communi-  cations-based  activities),  Jim  Trent,  who  was  Bobby's  number-one  man  at  that  time,  suggested  that  Bobby  go  to  various  prestige  locations-campuses,  boutiques,  discoth\xc3\xa9ques-and  actually  lease  a  number  of  attractive  but  super-  fluous  young  people  who  would  be  obliged  to  do  whatever  Bobby  asked  them  to  do.  Bobby  (who,  let's  face  it,  is  a  very  lonely  man,  somewhat  afraid  of  ordinary  human  contact)  liked  the  idea  of  a  community  of  good-looking  young  people  all  bearing  the  Bobby  Bison  imprint  and  obligated  to  engage  in  all  specified  Bobby  Bison  leisure  ac-  tions,  so  he  leased  several  thousand  &quot;Bobby  Bison  Affordables.&quot;  Somehow,  the  Affordables  never  really  caught  on.  After  a  while,  Bobby  began  to  try  to  sublease  them  to  other  companies,  but  the  market  just  wasn't  there.  A  certain  number  were  able  to  work  as  servants,  but  the  majority  were  just  useless  and  a  burden  on  the  payroll.  One  reason  Bobby  has  been  slow  to  draw  up  his  Energy  Budget  for  the  Eighties  is  that  he  is  under  a  lot  of  pressure  from  the  &quot;old  guard&quot;-the  guys  from  the  pre-leisure-action  days,  who  always  opposed  the  Affordable  concept  (and  who  got  Jim  Trent  out  ofthe  organi-  zation)-to  put  the  Affordables  to  sleep.  Bobby,  understandably,  is  reluc-  tant  to  do  this,  because  it  would  be  an  admission  of  failure-and  the  end  of  a  dream.  Still,  we  are  all  aware  that  the  company  can't  go  on  like  this,  in  a  state  of  complete  inaction.  OME  of  Bobby's  early  drafts  for  his  Energy  Budget  for  the  Eighties  just  didn't  make  a  lot  of  sense,  and  we  had  to  ask  Bobby  to  go  back  and  try  again.  In  one  early  draft,  he  did  come  up  with  a  nice  name  for  oil  spills  (&quot;fuel-potential  overages&quot;),  and  in  general  he's  been  good  on  the  whole  resource-incentive  area.  But  he  keeps  polishing  one  section,  &quot;Resentment  As  an  Alternate  Energy  Source,&quot;  which  doesn't  deal  with  the  real  problems  faced  at  this  moment  by  the  Multi-Promo    family  of  businesses  and  which  inex-  plicably  contains  personal  attacks  on  some  ofthe  people  who  are  closest  to  him  and  who  spend  almost  every  wak-  ing  hour  right  by  his  side  trying  to  help  him  complete  his  energy  budget.  Milo  is  with  Bobby  now.  Milo  has  been  with  Bobby  from  the  beginning,  when  Bison  Tool  was  just  a  little  shop  on  Erie  Boulevard,  and  is  the  only  one  of  us  with  any  influence.  Milo  is  going  to  try  to  get  Bobby  into  the  special  exerciser  and  force  him  to  come  to  some  final  decisions  about  his  energy  budget.  Sometimes  Milo  can  get  Bobby  into  the  exerciser  by  pretending  that  the  straps  have  been  disconnected,  and  then  Bill  Mandel  (who  hides  in  back  of  the  metal  understructure)  jumps  up  and  buckles  down  the  awxiliary  straps.  It  used  to  be  that  we  couldn't  get  away  with  this,  but  recently  Bobby's  hair  has  fallen  down  in  front  of  his  face  and  he  misses  a  lot  of  what  goes  on  around  him.  "