 b"Miss  ARAMINTA THomas  had  been  born  on  the  Mercy  Seat  Plantation  some  eighty  years  before.  Mercy  Seat,  owing  to  the  worldly  wisdom  of  its  owners,  had  re-  mained  pretty  much  intact  through  fire  and  flood,  It  double-cropped  most  of  its  twenty-five  thousand  acres.  The  only  change  that  had  occurred  during  Miss  Araminta's  lifetime  was  that  all  the  cabins  but  hers  had  to  be  torn  down  during  the  days  of  Rights.  She  had  the  distinction  of  being  the  last  colored  per-  son  residing  on  Mercy  Seat.  Her  cabin  sat,  square  and  substantial,  in  a  field  of  Cherokee  rose.  She  had  been  assured  by  little  Isaac  himself,  who  now  ran  the  place,  that  she  need  never  worry.  He  sent  a  pickup  by  with  bread  and  soup  and  kindling  wood,  and  treated  her  with  deference.  Miss  Araminta  did  worry  a  little,  al-  though  not  over  Mercy  Seat.  She  sel-  dom  went  out  anymore  except  for  her  daily  trip  to  the  pond,  where  her  water  faucet  was.  All  of  her  loved  ones  were  dead  or  gone  off  to  make  fools  of  themselves.  She  mostly  thought  of  her-  self-of  her  long-enduring  virtue,  of  how  nice  she  looked  in  her  hat  and  gloves  and  the  broadcloth  coat  on  the  hook.  And  not  just  that,  either.  She  thought  about  death  and  how  there  ought  to  be  some  kind  of  windup  in-  stead  of  just  passing  away.  Miss  Araminta  wanted  no  fanfare.  Goodness  knew  that.  Every  white  per-  son  who  amounted  to  anything  was  bound  to  be  at  her  funeral-couldn't  get  around  it.  No,  what  she  wanted  and  secretly  fretted  about  was  a  down-  right  risky,  serious  matter.  She  wanted  a  Sign  from  God.  Each  day  of  her  life,  she  made  a  case  for  herself.  She  had  started  out  promis-  ing  even  asa  little  child.  The  first  Mr.  Isaac  and  his  wife  used  to  invite  her  up  to  their  big  old  house  on  the  river  to  sing  for  them.  They  taught  her  les-  sons  in  books.  But  this  didn't  last-the  danger  of  getting  too  thick.  And  then  her  mother  went  down.  At  first  the  misery  seemed  to  be  just  another  baby.  But  the  baby  was  born,  and  her  mother  kept  the  ache  in  her  back  andhad  to  be  rubbed  and  waited  on,  Some  days  she  rubbed  her  mother  all  day  and  even  used  bag  balm  on  her.  When  one  of  the  smaller  children  cried,  Miss  Ara-  minta  learned  how  to  quickly  get  the  best  of  it.  She  grew  up,  it  seemed  to  her  now,  with  one  after  another  in  the  crook  of  her  left  arm  while  she  rubbed  or  cooked  or  tended  the  fire  with  her  right.  Yes  indeed.  Her  father  praised  her  and  told  her  to  repeat  to  herself  the  Lord's  Prayer,  the  Twenty-third  Psalm,  and  then  to  whisper  a  little  verse  old  Mr.  Isaac  had  taught  him:  I  slept  and  dreamed  that  life  was  beauty.  I  woke-and  found  that  life  was  duty.  She  obeyed,  of  course,  but  much  better  were  the  waked-up  dreams  that  wove  in  and  out  of  the  brooms  and  mops,  the  whooping-cough  whoops,  and  the  bag  balm-dreams  that  she  couldn't  re-  member  if  she  tried.  NOW  her  daydreams  were  all  about  the  Sign.  It  should  be  straight  out,  if  it  ever  came,  leaving  no  room  for  doubt.  Inorder  to  coax  it,  she  had  to  keep  to  herself,  not  have  her  time  and  her  prayers  laid  over  with  other  people's  thoughts,  other  people's  opinions.  The  only  offender  left  was  little  Isaac's  wife.  She  was  not  a  county  girl-a  red-headed  Catholic!  But  she was  smart  in  one  thing.  She  knew  the  best  chance  she  had  was  to  turn  out  a  nice-sized  family.  On  clear  days,  Miss  Araminta  could  look  out  of  her  cabin  window  and  see  a  whole  host  of  them,  with  their  nurse,  sitting  on  top  of  a  sheet.  Mr.  Isaac's  wife  was  afraid  of  ants,  if  this  was  to  be  believed.  And  not  a  grain  of  sense  as  to  whether  she  was  welcome.  As  soon  as  she  came  to  Mercy  Seat  as  a  bride,  she  began  to  visit  the  cabin.  &quot;What  happened  to  your  furni-  ture?&quot;  My  dear  young  lady,  Miss  Araminta  felt  like  saying.  &quot;People  came  and  borrowed.  Some  of  my  younger  sisters  when  they  mar-  ried  or  moved  away.&quot;  Her  room  was  importantly  empty,  she  thought  when  she  looked  around.  Her  mother's  bed,  the  Bible,  pots  and  pans,  and  the  two  hen  boxes  on  either  side  of  the  fireplace.  Besides  her  clothes  and  photographs,  her  locust  walking  stick.  At  eighty,  though,  what  more  did  you  need,  with  no  one  left  to  do  for?  That  was  God's  mystery,  the  part     " b"she  could  never  get  over  but  just  ac-  cepted,  like  Job.  The  constant  taking  away.  First  her  mother,  after  there  were  seven.  Her  father  began  his  scold-  ing  and  that  took  off  several  more.  Even  their  names  were  faint  unlessshe  consulted  the  Bible,  where  they  flick-  ered  and  swam  around  for  want  of  a  magnifier.  They  who  had  been  so  dear,  so  afraid  of  Papa's  ranting:  &quot;What  do  you  want,  [REDACTED]?  You  are  living  on  Mercy  Seat.  We  have  hearth  and  home  and  everything  that  we  need.  Rise  up  against  false  gods,  Fords,  and  refrigera-  tors.&quot;  And  then  old  Mr.  Isaac  came  on  his  crutches  right  in  this  very  room.  He  told  her  father  to  quit  it.  He  told  him  to  let  them  go.  Anyway,  the  white  girl  dragged  in  a  rocker,  which  sat,  unwelcome  and  un-  used,  between  the  two  hen  boxes.  It  was  a  grand  one,  with  a  deep  strong  back  and  flowered  plush  on  the  seat.  Miss  Araminta  wouldn't  sit  in  it,  and  when  a  piece  of  burning  wood  popped  from  the  fire  and  made  a  hole  in  the  plush,she  told  it  to  pay  heed  and  go  back  where  it  came  from  or  burn  com-  pletely  up.  But  the  white  girl  sat  in  the  rocker  and  took  time  with  bothersome  sug-  gestions.  &quot;You  ought  to  ride  to  King's  Town.  They've  finished  painting  the  bank.  You'll  love  the  golden  steeple  on  the  church.&quot;  The  fact  of  the  business  was  that  Miss  Araminta  had  barely  enough  time  in  each  day  to  attend  to  matters  at  hand.  When  she  awoke  in  the  morn-  ing,  she  gave  thanks  for  a  new  day.  It  had  taken  her  the  longest,  the  evening  before,  to  wash  up  and  change  into  her  nightgown.  She  kept  her  clothes  under  the  mattress,  because  somebody  borrowed  the  dresser  long  ago.  For  a  wedding.  No,  it  was  the  vase  they  need-  ed  for  the  wedding.  Not  the  dresser.  Call  it  one  more  hour  to  get  up  and  walk  her  stiffness  out  and  unbank  the  fire  to  warm  breakfast.  Then  with  what  water  was  left  in  the  bucket  wipe  up.  Get  her  day  clothes  out  and  fold  her  night  clothes  and  do  what  she  could  with  her  hair.  And  it  hadn't  even     counted  the  only  thing  shedid  that  had  any  meaning  to  it-her  trip  to  the  Christmas  bush.  HE  sun  had  climbed  high  today  before  she  was  ready  to  go.  She  took  the  bucket  for  water  and  the  thorn-  locust  walking  stick.  Out  back.  First  down  the  step,  then  out  onto  the  sour-  clover  ridges  that  that  man  had  har-  rowed  by  mistake,  past  the  gatepost,  and  so  on.  She  promised.  the  bucket  it  would  soon  be  feeling  good  water.  Tired  at  first,  her  eyes  lighted  on  the  pond  and  just  a  few  steps  beside  it  the  bush  itself,  shimmering  with  red  berries.  It  was  one  of  a  common  May  haw  scattered  throughout  the  fields.  &quot;We  used  to  bring  your  limbs  in.  They  took  you  to  church  sometimes  in  the  place  of  flowers.&quot;  She  looked  up  and  the  sky  was  empty  except  for  fast,  heartless  birds.  She  got  down  on  her  knees  with  the  stick  handy  soshe  could  get  back  up  with  it  when  she  had  to  go.  Then,  as  she  always  did,  she  waited  for  the  Sign.  Today  as  usual  all  kinds  of  things  " b"tried  to  get  into  her  worship.  The  hunt-  ers  were  shooting  again  back  in  the  woods.  The  ducks  on  the  pond,  where  the  water  hydrant  dripped,  shook  their  tails  and  veed  around  for  crumbs.  She  thought  ahead  about  God,  His  mercy,  His  love  of  the  dead  and  the  living.  Suddenly  there  was  another  noise,  a  noise  she  hadn't  expected.  She  grabbed  the  stick  and  hurried  to  her  feet  to  try  and  get  out  ofthe  way.  Hogs.  A  big  male  hog,  brown  and  sleek,  pointed  its  snout  at  her  and  stood  still  while  its  nose  went  up  and  down.  Behind  him  were  sows,  some  of  them  black  and  white  and  some  of  them  brown  like  him.  &quot;Wait  a  minute,  hogs,&quot;  she  pleaded.  &quot;I  not  got  a  sign  of  corn.  Go  along  now  and  find  yourselves  some  corn.&quot;  The  male  hog  opened  its  mouth,  and  it  was  like  a  smile.  They  were  coming  toward  her.  She  was  nearly  back  to  the  cabin  beforeshe  realized  she  had  actually  run.  Feet  flying,  stick  swinging,  she  had  escaped  the  danger.  Lord  have  mercy!  Old  as  she  was,  she  could  make  haste  when  she  had  to.  The  hogs,  put  out  with  having  no  food,  were  probably  long  gone.  &quot;I  was  worshipping  God,&quot;  she  said  indignantly,  &quot;and  loose  hogs  came  by&quot;,  The  words  fell  heavily  amidst  the  sound  of  her  breathing.  She  would  com-  plain  to  little  Isaac  that  his  men  were  worse  and  worse.  Letting  hogs  on  to  plunder  Mercy  Seat.  She  rested  awhile  and  then  started  back  for  the  bush.  There  were  the  usual  sights-the  old  dug  well  the  calf  had  stumbled  into,  the  walnut  struck  by  lightning.  When  she  got  to  the  pond,  she  saw  the  bucket  still  not  filled.  Only  the  bush  was  gone.  She  got  down  on  her  knees  and  felt  in  the  freshly  rooted  earth  until  she  found  the  stob  and  some  fallen  berries.  She  would  have  to  calm  herself.  Those  hogs  had  borrowed  the  bush  in  the  mindless  way  of  beasts.  Right  now  she  Ahad  to  rest.  She  had  been  wise  to  wear  the  broadcloth  coat-it  was  late.  The  sun  was  fixing  to  set.  &quot;Go  ahead  on  and  set,&quot;  she  told  it.  &quot;I'll  be  starting  in  a  minute.&quot;  It  was  long,  this  waiting,  but  she  was  not  one  of  little  faith.  The  bush  would  have  to  take  its  place  with  all  the  other  losses.  There  was  always  a  little  time  that  people  call  first  dark.  That  was  when  she  would  go,  with  the  help  of  the  stick,  if  she  even  needed  the  stick,  knowing  the  path  as  she  knew  it. "