 b"IN  the  thirties,  it  was  in  the  base- ment  of  the  old  Vanderbob  Tow-  ers  Hotel.  In  the  forties,  it  moved  into  the  first  floor  of  the  Youbob  Build-  ing,  on  Fifty-second  Street.  In  the  late  fifties,  it  settled  in  what  was  to  become  its  final  home,  the  plush  revolving  lounge  on  thetop  of  the  BobCo  Build-  ing.  No  matter  where  they  found  it  through  the  years,  patrons  of  Bob's  Bob  House  (and  there  were  many  who  were  much  more  than  patrons-dev-  otees  might  be  a  better  word)  knew  that  anyplace  old  Bob  Bobson,  God  love  him,  was  hanging  out  there  was  sure  to  be  excitement,  fun,  and  big  thick  steaks  nearby.  I'll  never  forget  back  in  '54,  I'd  just  been  fired  by  Bill  Veeck  for  alcoholism,  and  I  walked  into  the  Bob  House  with  a  face  about  a  mile  long.  Bob  took  one  look  at  me  and  hollered,  &quot;Christ,  you're  sober,  Doc!&quot;  (He  always  called  me  Doc.  Of  course,  I  didn't  have  a  medical  degree,  but  I  did  have  my  own  stapling  gun.  He  called  me  Doc  ever  since  the  war,  over  in  [REDACTED].)  &quot;Anything  you  want,  it's  on  me.&quot;  My  God,  I  drank  the  place  dry  that  night,  and  then  I  had  a  good  solid  piece  of  American  grain-fed  beef  and  got  in  my  car  and  ran  over  a  claims  adjuster  and  ended  up  in  Mattea-  wan  State  Hospital  for  the  Criminally  Insane.  That's  the  kind  of  guy  Bob  was.  If  you  were  a  friend  of  Bob's,  there  was  nothing  he  wouldn't  do  for  you,  even  to  the  point  of  making  soup  out  of  your  underwear  and  drinking  the  broth,  as  he  once  didfor  longtime  crony  and  companion  Maria  Montes-  sori,  the  Italian  educator.  But  if  you  fell  among  the  unfortunate  few  who  Bob  considered  ene-  mies,  then  look  out:  he  might  refuse  to  give  you  a  good  table  or,  looking  serious,  say  he  was  going  to  put  your  dog  through  the  bo-  logna  slicer.  I'll  never  forget,  it  was  June  of  '58  and  my  first  ex-  wife  had  just  won  a  thousand  dollars  a  month  alimony  so  she  could  go  and  shack  up  with  that  big  Menno-  nite  buck  she  used  to  run  with,  plus  custody  of  my  litle  son  and  daughter.  I  told  the  judge,  &quot;God  damn  it,  she's  got  the  boy  sleep-  ing  in  a  basket  of  fish   heads-now,  I  don't  think  that'sright.  She's  making  my  daughter  lick  dead  bugs  off  the  car  radiator  grille.  You  think  that's  the  behavior  ofa  fit  moth-  er?&quot;  Well,  hell,  she  got  custody  any-  way.  The  judge  gave  her  custody.  I  suppose  he  knows  better  than  me.  The  only  friend  I  had  left  in  the  world  in  those  days  was  old  Bob.  I  spent  most  of  my  time  at  the  Bob  House.  &quot;Mother  of  God,  Highpock-  ets,&quot;  he'd  say.  (Always  called  me  Highpockets.  Course,  I  was  only  five-  eight,  but  I  did  have  my  own  cattle  prod.)  &quot;Highpockets,  buddy,  let  me  tell  you  what  happened  to  my  luggage&quot;  and  off  he'd  go  on  a  long  involved  riga-  marole  that  never  failed  to  make  me  feel  white  again.  T  was  through  Bob,  of  course,  that  I  first  met  Senator  Robert  Mebob.  This  was  back  before  all  the  contro-  versy  surrounding  the  Committee  to  Re-Bob  Mebob,  as  we  all  called  it,  which  Bob  got  tangled  up  in  with  that  crazy  prank  where  he  and  someone  on  the  Senator's  staff  put  a  Saltine  in  a  cup  of  warm  tea  (an  allegation  that  was  never  proved,  by  the  way).  At  any  rate,  Bob  took  me  over  to  the  Senator's  table  at  the  Bob  House  one  night.  &quot;[REDACTED],&quot;  he  said  to  me.  (He  always  called  me  [REDACTED].  Course,  I  didn't  have  any  hair  of  my  own,  but  I  did  have  my  own  meat  thermometer.)  &quot;[REDACTED],&quot;  he  says,  &quot;I  want  you  to  meet  the  Honora,  ble  Robert  Youbob  Mebob-I  call  him  Bob,  buddy  of  mine-he's  the  greatest  guy,  he's  a  helluva  guy.  God,  I  love  him.  I'll  bet  you  didn't  know  that  this  guy  right  here,  Senator  Bob  Mebob,  he's  the  fatherof  my  oldest  boy,  Bob- by.&quot;  Then  he  grinned  and  grabbed  the  Senator  in  a  big  bear  hug  and  his  eyes  filled  with  tears,  and  I  have  to  admit  I  was  surprised,  even  though  I  knew  that  Bob's  wife,  who  used  to  wait  tables  at  the  Bob  House,  was  a  great  and  beau-  tiful  lady  and  afine  helpmeet  and  a  terrific  gal  who  shacked  up  with  any  damned  guy  she  felt  like,  and  a  terrific  mother  who  loved  to  drink  and  drive.  Later,  when  the  Senatorgot  indicted,  Bob  never  forgot  him,  and  once  sent  him  five  dozen  red  roses  with  a  note  asking  if  he  was  still  in  love  with  Otis  Sistrunk,  of  the  [REDACTED]  Raiders.  That's  the  way  it  was  if  you  were  friends  with  Bob-you  were  in  love  with  Otis  Sistrunk,  although  probably  you  weren't.  Now,  after  forty  years  and  who  knows  how  many  stomachs  pumped,  they're  closing  down  theold  Bob  House,  where  so  many  ofus  had  such  great  times  and  blacked  out  so  many  times  over  the  years,  and  we're  sure  go-  ing  to  miss  it.  Of  course,  Bob  has  slowed  down  a  lot,  and  he  can't  threat-  en  people  as  well  as  he  used  to  when  he  was  younger,  and  that,  along  with  the  incident  last  fall  where  a  bunch  of  kids  broke  in  after  hours  and  taped  live  ferrets  to  the  salad  bar,  has  taken  a  lot  of  the  fun  out  of  the  Bob  House  for  him.  Bob  is  moving  to  [REDACTED],  where  he  plans  to  just  take  it  easy  and  collect  moving  violations  and  rifle  the  desks  of  guys  who  know  him  and  trust  him,  and  we  wish  him  the  best.  I  know  I  speak  for  everybody  else  who  has  known  Bob  and  his  Bob  House  when  I  say  that  we  love  him  and  think  he's  the  greatest  guy  and  the  cutest  guy  and  has  done  a  terrific  job  notonly  for  the  restaurant  business  but  also  for  the  city  as  a  whole. "