 b"WILLIE  RUTH  was  not  tall  or  imposing-looking  until  she  dressed  her  head  for  the  night.  She  had  a  blue  knit  wool  cap,  the  kind  children  wear  out  on  cold  days,  and  this  was  the  foundation  of  the  headrag.  Onto  it  she  wound  scarves,  one  sheer  and  an  exotic  black,  one  silk  with  its  own  tassel.  On  top,  and  beginning  from  below  her  ears  to  a  peak  just  above  her  forehead,  was  a  large  Ace  Bandage.  The  face  below,  bloated  and  ill-pieced,  took  on  a  kind  of  detached  appropriateness,  as  if,  the  final  fastener  having  been  placed,  there  was  nothing  more  needed  for  a  calm  and  eventless  night.  She  seldom  watched  television  once  the  headrag  was  on.  The  child  she  nursed  was  usually  wedged  into  the  rocker  beside  her,  as  she  didn't  want  her  legs  sat  on.  She  rested  her  head  on  a  towel  and  stared  at  the  high  plaster  ceiling  to  let  the  child  go  on  and  get  its  fill  of  gunfights  and  silences  and  husky  love  voices  till  it  was  sleepy  enough.  Then  she  would  take  a  large  pillow  she  kept  on  the  sofa  and  quickly  push  its  bulk  where  her  own  had  been,  meanwhile  starting  the  child  to  rock-  ing.  For  a  minute  or  two  she  stood  behind  the  chair,  keeping  it  going  and  gradually  leaving  off.  Then  she  could  go  into  the  back  bedroom,  draw  up  the  covers,  and  prop  herself  just  right  against  the  mahogany  headboard  so  she  wouldn't  have  any  trouble  with  her  double  hernia.  After  a  while  she  would  close  her  eyes  against  the  long  country  night.  The  house  was  deep  in  the  woods.  It  was  bad  luck  when  the  child  came  crying,  wanting  herself  enclosed  by  arms  and  settling  talk,  but  usually  she  could  be  found  in  the  morning  still  in  the  rocker,  cold  and  drawn  up  in  a  knot.  Willie  Ruth  made  coffee  at  first  light.  She  could  not  drink  but  a  few  sips,  but  it  gave  the  house  the  right  feel  to  have  boiling  water  running  through  the  grounds.  Sometimes  when  the  child  woke,  which  was  always  early,  she  would  let  her  drink  some  from  her  mug,  thick  with  sugar  and  blown  off  to  suit  her.  There  were  always  a  few  dirty clothes  from  the  day  before  to  put  in  the  sink  and  work  on  with  the  wash-  board  and  the  Wisk.  The  child's  father  had  to  be  gone  a  few  days  now  and  then  in  New  Orleans,  and  he  paid  good  money  to  have  the  house  kept  closed  and  tight  and  the  child  taken  care  of.  He  had  strung  up  drying  lines  on  the  screened  porch  so  she  wouldn't  have  to  unlock.  The  thing  she  resented,  and  rightly  so,  was  the  impossibility  of  running  home  to  check  on  her  own  house  on  Sugar  Hill  and  the  little  trash  she  had  accumulated  across  the  years.  In  addi-  tion  to  a  wood  cookstove  and  a  tufted  bed  with  two  chairs  and  a  bureau,  she  had  bought  herself  a  color  TV  set  on  legs.  One  object  alone  sat  on  this,  a  large  glass  horse  that  was  hollow  under  its  belly.  She  stuffed  important  papers  here  and  could  pretty  well  see  from  the  outside  the  shapes  and  writing  and  tex-  tures.  There  was  her  only  brother's  ad-  dress  in  Little  Tallulah,  snatches  of  Social  Security  correspondence,  various  graduations  that  demanded  attention,  and  the  funeral  parlor's  calendar.  God  only  knew  what  would  happen  to  these  things,  laying  hens  and  canned  pears  included,  while  she  was  out  in  the  woods  minding  this  white  man's  child.  Still,  that  was  the  way.  He  paid  five  dollars  a  round  day  (dark  included)  and  all  of  her  Social  Security.  This  meant  that  in  another  year,  with  twen-  ty-one  quarters  paid  up,  she  could  quit  and  live  at  peace.  Paying  anything  at  all  to  the  government  was  dangerous.  She  knew  this.  One  jump  and  they  had  you.  But  the  child's  father  was  almost  a  crook  himself  and  he  believed  she  was  safe.  He  said  they  wouldn't  bother  her.  You  could  trust  him  to  a  certain  extent.  And  besides,  there  was  the  elderly  brother  in  Little  Tallulah  (which  he  said  was  a  partof  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]),  who  begged  her,  every  letter  she  got,  to  just  climb  on  the  bus  and  try  it.  Out  there,  he  meant.  He  was  only  her  half  brother  and  eighty  years  old,  buthe  would  never  in  the  world  divulge  her  where-  abouts  if  she  told  him  not  to.  Sometimes  she  weighed  the  loss  of  everything  on  Sugar  Hill  with  the  benefits  of  life  in  Little  Tallulah.  Her  brother  would  not  begrudge  her  anything-to  him  she  was  just  a  girl.  Yet  it  seemed  like  familiar  blessings  hung  in  the  balance.  Here  she  had  saved  enough  money  in  .  her  girdle  to  replace  just  about  any-  thing  she  needed  if  people  burned  her  out.  And  still  have  the  government  check,  if  timekept  running  on.  Here  in  King's  Town  she  had  neighbors  of  years'  standing.  One  in  particular  kept  " b"a  full-term  baby  in  rubbing  alcohol.  This  could  be  brought  out  of  the  chif-  forobe  for  her  to  see,  floating  around  as  dead  as  a  doornail.  Another  neigh-  bor  had  so  much  sympathy  for  her  that  she  cried  if  she  caught  a  cold,  and  if  a  store  cheated  her  out  of  even  so  much  as  a  dime  the  neighbor  flailed  around  until  it  was  all  she  could  do  to  keep  her  from  calling  the  sheriff.  The  very  character  of  Sugar  Hill  meant  something,  its  living  and  its  dead,  its  worrisome  children  and  flies.  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  she  felt  sure,  would  have  fine,  long  streets  and  big  stores,  and  wher-  ever  you  went  people  would  know  aplenty.  Yet  her  brother  didn't  even  have  his  own  dumphole.  He  had  to  put  his  waste  in  a  twenty-five-cent  sack  and  set  it  out  on  the  street.  He  had  already  admitted  that  his  house  was  completely  Sheetrocked.  No  indeed,  this  little  white  child  wouldn't  last  forever.  If  she  kept  her  temper  and  stuck  it  out,  the  father  would  be  nice  to  her  in  any  kind  of  trouble.  He  was  all  right.  He  carried  a  doctor  bag  and  pills  and  wasn't  a  real  doctor,  so  he  had  to  depend  on  somebody,.  All  he  worried  about  was  the  skinny  little  girl  and  her  staying  locked  up  and  not  seeing  anybody  till  he  could  make  it  back.  When  it  was  about  time  to  look  for  him,  she  fixed  ahot  rag  and  went  over  the  thin,  hard  child  and  put  on  her  a  clean  dress.  She  was  practically  no  trouble  except  for  her  addling  talk.  You  had  to  think  your  own  thoughts  and  not  listen  at  her.  She  spoke  of  things  too  wise  for  a  Chinaman  and  killed  out  your  common  sense.  She  must  be  like  this  because  she  had  no  mother.  Her  father  said  it,  not  hide  nor  hair  of  one.  She  was  a  rubbed-up  man's  child,  most  likely-the  rarest  kind  of  case.  No  wonder  he  kept  her  in.  Willie  Ruth  herself  did  not  care  much  for  men.  She  had  been  struck  on  the  head  by  her  blood  father  and  thrown  in  a  ditch  to  die.  She  had  had  other  trouble.  It  was  a  shame,  and  not  many  people  remembered  it,  but  she  was  not  even  from  King  County.  The  same  brother  who  now  resided  in  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  had  taken  her  in  when  her  father  tried  to  kill  her.  It  was  terri-  ble  yet  to  remember  the  first  few  days  when  he  made  her  go  to  school.  Where  are  you  from,  girl?  What  are  you  do-  ing  here?  Her  brother  had  been  angry,  people  melling  her  so.  She  stayed  behind  the  door,  him  bringing  her  bowls  of  mashed  potatoes  and  gravy  and  telling  her  not  to  mind,  it  would  all  straighten  out.  Yes,  her  old  brother  had  been  mighty  nice  and  taught  her  certain  things,  such  as  how  to  wind  a  headrag  against  the  moon  and  evil  spirits.  Well,  sir,  and  his  wife  had  finally  passed  and  still  he  stayed  out  there.  HEN  she  was  on  the  job,  Willie  Ruth  dozed  so  much  during  the  day  that  she  was  worn  out  by  night-  fall.  She  was  halfway  looking  forthe  papa,  though,  so  she  stirred  herself  to  straighten  around  and  get  the  child  cleaned  up.  It  had  been  three  days.  By  the  time  they  got  to  the  murders,  she  could  hardly  hold  her  eyes  open.  The  child  followed  each  story  and  gripped  the  arm  of  the  rocker  when  the  bad  man  started  creeping  and  the  music  turned  around.  It  all  seemed  the  same  as  last  night.  &quot;Didn't  that  same  man  do  that  before?&quot;  she  asked  the  child,  but  the  child  didn't  hear  her.  It  grew  late  enough  to  make  her  think  thefather  wasn't  coming.  She  had  undressed  and  wrapped  her  head  with  the  usual  care  forthe  night.  She  was  sitting  back  in  the  rocker  until  she  could  jam  the  pillow  and  set  the  chair  to  rocking.  Then  a  flash  of  light  on  the  chandelier  above  their  heads  made  her  wideawake.  One  car  was  chasing  another  on  the  set,  but  it  couldn't  have  been  that.  The  child  had  seen  a  real  flash,  too,  and  was  running  to  the  sidelights  along  thebig  front  doors.  It  was  a  car,  but  instead  of  stop-  ping  at  the  drive  it  drove  on  up  in  the  moonlight  clear  to  the  flower  gate.  The  dogs  were  going  wild.  It  was  not  the  father's  car  but  an  old  rusty  Buick  that  prowled  the  streets  of  King's  Town.  The  horn  blew  for  help  in  getting  off  the  dogs.  It  is  a  funny  thing  when  you  think  you  won't  open  a  door  no  matter  what  and  then  when  people  come  you  go  right  on  and  do.  Willie  Ruth  threatened  the  dogs  to  leave  off  and  the  child  stood  beside  her  in  the  open  door,  ordering  them  to  hush.  A  man  was  getting  out  of  the  passenger's  seat  and  making  his  way  unsteadily  to  the  porch,  holding  on  to  things  as  he  pro-  gressed.  The  driver  could  be  seen  smiling  in  the  moonlight  and  both  men  were  drunk,  yet  humble  and  be-  seeching.  The  man  at  the  door  ex-  plained  the  best  he  could.  They  had  poured  kerosene  on  a  lady  and  then  set  her  on  fire.  Now  she  was  in  the  back  of  the  car,  burned  up  almost.  They  wanted  to  know  if  they  could  borrow  some  money  to  take  her  up  to  Natchez  to  the  hospital.  The  child  took  charge  of  the  drunk  man  at  the  door.  Yes  indeed.  Her  " b"papa  left  money  in  thebutter  dish  and  she  would  go  and  get  it.  Willie  Ruth  blinked  and  tried  to  gather  her  wits.  'They  could  have  burned  a  lady,  but  they  could  just  need  more  drink.  The  odor  of  the  [REDACTED]  jasmine  and  the  light  of  the  moon  passed  inward  upon  her  brain.  The  child  had  returned  with  the  money,  rushed  past  the  man  at  the  door,  and  was  handing  it  up  to  the  driver.  The  dogs  closed  in  on  her  and  pressed  against  her  sides,  anxious  to  have  a  role.  The  night  burned  with  the  heavy  smell  of  flowers,  the  moon,  and  a  pos-  sibly  near-dead  lady  unseen  in  the  back  of  the  car.  &quot;He  tied  her,&quot;  the  man  at  the  door  was  declaiming,  as  if  he  was  ready  to  dissociate  himself  from  the  very  story  he  told.  &quot;I  say  don't  tie  her,  but  he  went  on  and  tied  her.&quot;  The  driver  had  turned  his  attention  to  the  child  as  she  counted  him  out  the  money.  His  gold-brightened  smile  crumbled  and  he  began  to  cry.  He  tried  to  form  words  with  his  limp  mouth.  &quot;God  bless  you,&quot;  he  said.  And  then  he  seemed  to  gain  confidence  and  be-  came  very  formal.  &quot;God  bless  all  chil-  dren.  In  all  lands.&quot;  Suddenly,  above  the  light  of  the  moon  and  the  headlights  of  the  car,  there  was  a  dazzling  blue  glare.  An-  other  car  wascoming  over  the  cattle  gap,  this  one  at  breakneck  speed.  The  child's  thin  fast  legs  carried  her  into  the  house  and  Willie  Ruth  slammed  the  door  shut  and  put  back  on  the  bolt.  By  the  time  she  could  peek  through  the  sidelights,  both  cars  had  turned  their  lights  off  and  there  was  nothing  but  the  moon.  They  went  back  to  the  rocker,  and  she  took  the  child  on  her  lap  and  jiggled  her  up  and  down.  They  got  interested  in  a  show  and  breathed  easy  over  the  customary  pauses  for  grease  and  pain-relievers.  It  couldn't  have  been  the  father.  If  it  had  been,  nothing  would  have  kept  him  from  getting  his  revenge.  He  would  have  killed  the  two  drunks  and  then  brought  his  gun  in  the  house  and  used  it  straight  on  her.  No,  it  wasn't  him.  It  was  friends,  maybe,  of  the  two  men,  come  to  help  them  get  to  Natchez-bad  people  too.  She  had  done  wrong  to  open  the  door,  but  she  had  slammed  it  back  in  time.  Only  the  child's  father  could  turn  the  dead  bolt.  Now  there  was  a  scream  and  some  brakes  screeching,  but  she  could  match  the  picture  on  television  to  the  sound.  She  could  never  sleep,  and  so  shedid  not  tryto  break  away  from  the  child  but  rocked  on  into  the  news.  Time  was in  her  favor.  If  enough  time  went  by  it  couldn't  havebeen  the  father.  The  child  had  fallen  asleep,  and  she  carried  her  to  the  bed  and  arranged  the  covers  carefully,  pattingthe  little  shoulder,  then  crept  back  to  the  set  and  began  to  watch  the  movie.  The  moon  was  over  the  top  of  the  house  before  she  heard  the  lock  turn. The  father  came  inin  the  dark  and  she  heard  the  sound  of  the  round  brass  studs  on  the  bottom  of  his  bag  as  he  set  it  down  in  the  hall.  &quot;Just  fine,&quot;  she  said,  as  if  he'd  asked  a  question.  &quot;She  sleeping  good  tonight.&quot;  Still  without  speaking,  the  white  man  walked  back  to  the  bed  where  the  child  lay,  picked  her  up,  and  carried  her  to  his  room.  The  door  closed,  there  was  the  sound  of  the  key  in  that  lock,  and  then  the  house  was  quiet.  Willie  Ruth  tied  her  robe  around  her  and  tiptoed  to  her  room.  The  needed  rest  escaped  her  as  she  reasoned  about  the  outcome.  He  had  to  have  her  help.  He  couldn't  take  the  child  to  New  Orleans  or  leave  her  here  alone,  He  " b"hadn't  said  anything,  but  he  might  be  wait-  ing  for  daylight.  May-  be  she  should  leave  now,  follow  the  famil-  iar  deer  path  through  the  woods  to  the  short-  est  cut  to  King's  Town.  She  shook  with  nerv-  ous  chills.  At  last  the  roosters  crowed.  WHEN  she  got  back  to  the  kitch-  en,  thinking  to  make  his  coffee,  there  he  was.  He  had  on  the  same  suit  he  had  worn  away  and  the  same  black  tie.  Coffee  was  on  the  stove.  He  said  nothing  as  she  entered  but  acted  the  same  as  usual.  She  squinted  from  under  the  headrag  out  of  the  kitchen  windows,  trying  to  see  beyond.  The  big  leaves  of  the  fig  brushed  against  the  screens.  &quot;It  looks  like  a  nice  day.&quot;  The  evenness  of  his  voice,  his  matter-of-fact  look,  made  her  hope  rise.  &quot;Why  don't  you  run  get  your  things,&quot;  he  suggested.  &quot;Don't  bother  to  dress,  I'm  in  a  hurry.&quot;  She  rejoiced  in  his  calm,  in  the  clean  five-dollar  bills  that  would  be  in  his  en-  velope,  in  getting  back  to  Sugar  Hill,  where  she  could  try  to  find  out  some  more.  He  didn't  suspect  a  thing.  The  child  would  still  be  sleeping,  even  in  the  car.  The  threeof  them  together  drove  down  the  country  road.  The  child  was  slumped  over  in  her  blanket  and  her  father  looked  straight  ahead,  his  mind  about  on  business.  They  ran  past  the  Bermuda  field  and  around  the  curve  to  the  big  gully  that  spread  a  mile  or  two  beneath  the  road  and  dropped  two  hundred  feet.  She  looked  down  on  her  side  and  there  were  the  tops  of  the  oaks  and  the  wild  pecans.  A  little  haze  hung  over  them,  strange  for  a  summer  morning,  and  she  thought  she  could  smell  some  smoke.  Could  the  father  have  followed  the  Buick  along  the  dark  and  curving  road  until  he  caught  them  trying  to  get  by  the  gully?  She  wouldn't  put  it  past  him.  After  all,  they  would  never  be  found  until  Thanksgiving,  when  the  hunters  were  fanning  out.  But  ever  so  quickly  they  were  winding  up  to  Chapel  Street,  where  stately-  looking  houses  were  interspersed  with  steeples.  They  climbed  the  gravel  of  Sugar  Hill,  pausing  to  missa  chicken  and  then  to  let  a  blacksnake  finish  its  Scripture-  ordered  course  across  the  road.  When  they  got  to  her  house,  he  reached  inside  his  coat  and  handed  her  the  envelope  with  her  pay.  The  only  thing  was  he  didn't  get  out,  as  he  usually  did,  but  then  the  child  was  propped  between  them.  She  wrestled  her  door  handle  and  worked  it  loose  and  thanked  him  for  the  money.  Then  she  did  the  worst  thing  she  could  have  done-walked  in  front  of  the  car  to  get  to  the  driver's  window.  As  she  looked  down  she  saw  a  bashed-in  place  on  the  bumper  she  hadn't  noticed  before.  He  rolled  down  the  window  oblig-  ingly  to  see  what  she  wanted  to  say.  &quot;It  don't  haveanything  to  do  with  the  two  gentlemen,  do  it?&quot;  She  stooped  and  threw  gravel  at  those  of  her  chickens  that  had  wandered  down  in  the  road.  &quot;Did  you  send  two  gentle-  men  out  home  last  night?&quot;  &quot;'T  wo  gentlemen?&quot;  he  repeated,  as  quiet  as  the  end  of  a  hymn.  Their  eyes  met,  hers  bloodshot  and  stinging  and  his  blue  and  unconcerned.  She  stood  respectfully  waving  as  he  drove  off,  and  then  rushed  into  her  house,  where  everything  was  in  order.  Hastily  she  threw  off  her  nightclothes  and  the  headrag  and  put  on  her  day  dress  with  hose  and  shoes  to  match.  There  were  two  or  three  neighbors  that  always  heard  the  news,  and  she  went  to  each  of  their  houses  to  ask  about  the  lady,  to  describe  the  rusty  Buick  and  find  out  what  they  knew.  It  was  hard  to  believe,  but  no  one  had  heard  a  word.  They  wanted  her  to  sit  and  tell  them  all  about  it,  from  the  first.  She  broke  away  and  walked  on  back  to  her  house,  cocking  her  eye  for  a  stick.  As  soon  as  she  found  one  and  could  get  inside  she  went  over  to  where  she  had  dropped  the  headrag  and  picked  it  up,  making  sure  not  to  touch  it.  Then  she  went  out  back,  protected  by  plum  thickets,  and  threw  it,  stick  and  all,  as  far  as  her  strength  would  carry. "