 b"IT  was  many  years  ago  in  the  old  Confiteria  del  Aguila,  on  [REDACTED]  Street  up  around  Piedad,  that  we  heard  this  story.  'The  problem  of  knowledge  was  being  discussed.  Some-  one  invoked  the  Platonic  theory  that  we  have  already  seen  everything  in  a  previous  world,  so  that  to  know  is  to  know  again.  My  father,  I  believe,  said  that  Bacon  had  written  that  if  to  learn  is  to  remember,  not  to  know  is  infact  to  have  forgotten.  Another  person,  a  man  getting  on  in  years,  who  was  prob-  ablya  bit  lost  in  metaphysics,  decided  to  enter  in.  Speaking  slowly  and  de-  liberately,  this  is  what  he  told  us:  Frankly,  I  don't  understand  all  this  talk  of  Platonic  archetypes.  Nobody  re-  members  the  first  time  he  saw  the  col-  or  yellow  or  black,  or  the  first  timehe  tasted  a  certain  fruit-maybe  because  he  was  small  then  and  had  no  way  of  knowing  he  was  initiating  a  very  long  series.  Of  course,  there  are  other  first  times  that  no  one  forgets.  I  can  tell  you  what  a  certain  night  of  my  life  gave  me,  one  I  often  recall-the  night  of  the  twenty-fifth  ofApril,  1874.  Summer  holidays  were  much  longer  then,  but  I  don't  know  why  we  stayed  away  from  Buenos  Aires  until  that  late  date.  We  were  at  the  ranch  of  some  cousins,  the  Dornas,  not  far  from  Lo-  bos.  During  that  time,  one  ofthe  cow-  hands,  Rufino,  initiated  me  into  coun-  try  things.  I  was  approaching  thirteen;  he  was  somewhat  older  and  had  a  repu-  tation  as  a  daredevil.  He  was  quick,  agile.  When  the  younger  hands  played  at  knife-fighting  with  burnt  sticks,  the  one  who  always  got  his  face  marked  was  Rufino's  opponent.  One  Friday,  Rufino  suggested  we  go  into  town  the  next  night  to  have  a  little  fun.  Of  course,  I  leaped  at  the  chance,  but  without  really  knowing  what  it  was  all  about.  I  warned  him  I  didn't  know  how  to  dance.  Dancing  was  easy  to  learn,  he  said.  After  dinner  on  Saturday,  at  around  seven-thirty,  we  set  off.  Rufino  had  rigged  himself  out  like  someone  going  to  a  party,  and  he  wore  a  silver  knife  in  his  belt.  I  had  a  little  knife  like  it,  but  I  didn't  bring  mine,  for  fear  of  being  laughed  at.  It  was  not  long  be-  fore  we  glimpsed  the  first  houses.  I  don't  suppose  any  of  you  has  ever  been  to  Lobos.  Not  that  it  matters.  There's  no  small  town  in  the  Argentine  that  isn't  exactly  like  all  the  others-even  to  the  point  of  thinking  itself  differ-  ent.  Each  has  the  same  unpaved  al-  leys,  the  same  empty  lots,  the  same  one-story  houses-all  of  which  make  a  tant.  We  dismounted  at  a  certain  street  corner  in  front  of  a  house  painted  sky-  blueor  pink,  with  a  sign  saying  &quot;La  Estrella.&quot;  Tied  to  the  hitching  post  were  some  horses  with  good  saddles.  Through  the  half-open  street  door  I  saw  a  shaft  of  light,  At  the  end  of  the  entranceway  was  a  large  room  with  wooden  benches  on  either  side  and,  be-  tween  the  benches,  a  number  of  dark  doors  that  opened  who  knew  where.  A  litle  mongrel  with  yellow  fur  ran  up  barking  to  welcome  me.  Quite  a  few  people  were  about,  and  a  half-doz-  en  or  so  women  in  floral  dressing  gowns  came  and  went.  A  respectable-  looking  lady,  dressed  in  black  from  head  to  foot,  seemed  to  be  the  owner  of  the  house.  Rufino  greeted  her,  say-  ing,  &quot;I've  brought  a  new  friend,  but  he's  not  much  of  a  rider.&quot;  &quot;Don't  worry,&quot;  the  woman  an-  swered.  &quot;He'll  learn  soon  enough.&quot;  I  felt  ashamed.  To  draw  their  at-  tention  away,  or  to  make  them  see  that  I  was  aboy,I  began  playing  with  the  dog  at  the  end  of  one  of  the  benches.  On  a  table  inthe  kitchen  burned  some  cheap  candles  in  bottles,  and  I  also  remember  a  small  brazier  in  a  corner  to  the  rear.  On  the  whitewashed  wall  opposite  was  a  picture  of  Our  Lady  of  Mercy.  Somebody,  between  one  joke  and  another,  was  tuning  a  guitar  that  gave  him  a  lot  of  trouble,  Out  of  sheer  ti-  midity  Idid  not  refuse  a  gin,  which  burned  my  mouth  like  a  red-hot  coal. Among  the  women  I  noticed  one  who   seemed  different  from  the  others.  They  man  on  horseback  seem  more  impor-  called  her  La  Cautiva-the  Captive.  There  was  something  Indian  about  her,  but  her  features  were  like  a  pic-  ture  and  her  eyes  very  sad.  Her  braided  hair  reached  her  waist.  Rufino  saw  that  I  was  looking  at  her.  &quot;Let's  hear  about  the  raid  again-  to  refresh  our  memories,&quot;  he  said  to  her.  The  girl  spoke  as  if  she  were  alone,  and  in  some  way  I  felt  that  she  was  un-  able  to  think  of  anything  else  and  that  the  story  she  told  us  was  the  only  thing  that  had  happened  to  her  in  her  life.  &quot;I  was  very  young  when  they  brought  me  from  Catamarca,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;What  did  I  know  about  Indian  raids?  On  the  ranch  at  Santa  Irene  we  didn't  even  mention  such  things,  we  were  so  scared.  As  if  unravelling  a  secret,  I  gradually  found  out  that  In-  dians  could  descend  like  a  cloud  and  kill  people  and  steal  their  stock.  Wom-  en  they  carried  off  into  the  pampa,  and  they  did  everything  to  them.  I  tried  as  hard  as  I  could  not  to  believe  any  of  this,  My  brother  Lucas-the  Indians  later  put  aspear  through  him-swore  it  was  all  lies,  but  when  a  thing  is  true  it  has  to  be  said  only  once  for  you  to  know  it's  so.  The  government  hands  out  strong  drink  and  yerba  to  keep  the  Indians  happy,but  they  have  very  clev-  er  wizards  telling  them  what  to  do.  At  the  word  of  one  of  their  chiefs,  it's  nothing  for  them  to  attacka  ranch  somewhere  out  between  the  forts,  which  are  far  apart.  Just  from  thinking  about  it  so  much,  I  almost  wished  they  would  come,  and  I  knew  how  to  look  for  them  out  toward  the  setting  sun.  I  don't  know  how  much  time  went  by,  but  there  were  frosts  and  summers  and  roundups  and  the  death  of  the  fore-  man's  son  before  the  raid.&quot;  She  paused  for  a  moment  or  two,  lost  in  thought,  then  went  on.  &quot;It  was  as  if  the  south  wind  brought  them.  I  saw  a  thistle  in  a  ditch,  and  that  night  I  dreamed  of  Indians.  It  happened  at  daybreak.  The  animals  knew  it  before  we  did-the  same  as  when  there's  an  earthquake.  'The  cattle  were  restless  and  birds  wheeled  in  the  sky.  We  ran  to  look  in  the  direction  I  always  looked.&quot;  &quot;Who  warned  you?&quot;  someone  asked.  Distant  as  ever,  the  girl  repeated  her  last  sentence.  &quot;We  ran  to  look  in  the  direction  I  always  looked.  It  was  as  if  the  whole  desert  had  begun  to  move.  Through  the  bars  of  the  window  grille  we  saw  the  cloud  of  dust  before  we  saw  them.  It  was  a  raiding  party.  They  " b"beat  their  hands  over  their  mouths,  whooping.  We  had  some  rifles  at  Santa  Irene,  but  all  they  weregood  for  was  making  noise  and  turning  the  Indians  even  more  savage.&quot;  La  Cautiva  spoke  like  someone  say-  ing  a  prayer  she  had  learned  by  heart,  but  out  in  the  street  I  heard  the  desert  Indians  and  their  war  cries.  There  was  an  eruption  and,  as  if  riding  in  on  horseback  in  the  fragments  of  some  dream,  they  were  there  in  the  room.  They  were  local  toughs  and  they  were  drunk.  Now,  in  my  memory,  I  see  them  as  very  tall.  The  one  who  came  inat  the  head  of  them  elbowed  past  Rufino,  who  stood  by  the  door.  Rufino  changed  color  and  got  out  of  the  way.  The  lady  in  black,  who  had  not  stirred  from  her  place,  rose  to  her  feet.  &quot;It's  Juan  Moreira!&quot;  she  said.  After  so  much  time,  I  no  longer  know  whether  I  remember  the  man  of  that  night-the  outlaw  Moreira-or  somebody  else  I  was  later  often  to  see  around  cattle  fairs.  The  long,  thick  hair  and  black  beard  of  stage  characters  based  on  Moreira's  life  come  to  mind,  but  I  also  recall  a  ruddy  face  pitted  by  smallpox.  The  little  dog  scurried  for-  ward  to  give  him  a  welcome.  With  a  single  whiplash,  Moreira  left  it  in  a  sprawl  on  the  floor.  It  lay  on  its  back  and  died  pawing  the  air.  This  is  where  my  story  really  begins.  Without  a  sound  I  made  my  way  to  one  of  the  doors,  which  opened  into  a  narrow  passageway  and  a  staircase.  On  the  upper  floor,  I  hid  myself  in  a  dark  room.  Apart  from  the  bed,  which  was  verylow,  I  never  knew  what  other  furniture  was  there.  I  was  trembling.  Below,  the  shouting  did  not  let  up,  and  there  was  a  shattering  of  glass.  I  heard  a  woman's  footsteps  coming  up  the  stairs  and  I  saw  a  momentary  slit  of  light.  Then  La  Cautiva's  voice  called  out  to  me  in  a  whisper.  &quot;I'm  here  to  serve-but  to  serve  peaceable  people,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Come  closer,  I'm  not  going  to  hurt  you.&quot;  She  had  taken  off  her  dressing  gown.  Ilay  beside  her  and  felt  for  her  face  with  my  hands.  I  have  no  idea  how  much  time  passed.  We  exchanged  neither  a  word  nor  a  kiss.  I  untied  her  braid  and  my  hands  played  with  her  hair,  which  was  very  straight,  and  then  they  played  with  her.  We  did  not  see  each  other  again  after  that,  and  I  nev-  er  learned  her  real  name.  A  shot  startled  us.  La  Cautiva  said,  You  can  leave  by  the  other  stairway.&quot;  I  did,  and  I  found  myself  out  in  the  dirt  alley.  It  was  a  moonlit  night.  A  po-  lice  sergeant,  Andr\xc3\xa9s  Chirino,  stood  on  watch  by  the  wall  with  a  rifle  and  fixed  bayo-  net.  He  laughed,  say-  ing  to  me,  &quot;I  see  you're  an  early  riser.&quot;  I  must  have  swered  something,  but  he  paid  me  no  atten-  tion.  A  man  was  low-  ering  himself  over  the  wall.  With  a  bound,  the  sergeant  buried  the  steel  in  hisflesh.  The  man  dropped  to  the  ground,  where  he  lay  on  his  back,  moaning  and  bleeding  to  death.  I  remembered  the  dog.  To  finish  the  man  off  once  and  for  all,  Chirino  sank  the  bayo-  net  in  again.  &quot;You  didn't  make  it  this  time,  Moreira,&quot;  he  said  almost  joyously.  From  every  side  came  uniformed  men,  who  had  surrounded  the  house,  and  then  the  neighbors.  The  ser-  geant  had  a  struggle  to  pull  out  the  bayonet.  Everybody  wanted  to  shake  his  hand.  &quot;The  fancy  footwork's  all  over  for  this  hoodlum,&quot;  Rufino  said  with  a  laugh.  I  went  from  group  to  group,  telling  people  what  I  had  seen.  Then,  all  at  once,  I  felt  very  tired;  maybe  I  was  even  feverish.  Slipping  away,  I  found  Rufino  and  we  started  home.  From  our  horses,  we  saw  the  pale  dawn  light.  More  than  tired,  I  felt  dazed  by  that  torrent  of  events.  &quot;By  the  great  river  of  that  night,&quot;  my  father  said  when  the  man  had  fin-  ished.  &quot;'That's  right,&quot;  he  agreed.  &quot;In  the  bare  space  of  a  few  hours  I  had  known  love  and  had  looked  on  death.  All  things  are  revealed  to  all  men-or,  anyway,  all  those  things  it's  granted  a  man  to  know-but  to  me  two  funda-  mental  things  were  revealed  in  a  single  night.  The  years  pass  and  I've  told  this  story  so  many  times  I  no  longer  know  whether  I  remember  it  as  it  was  or  whether  it's  only  my  words  I'm  re-  membering.  Maybe  the  same  thing  happened  to  La  Cautiva  with  her  In-  dian  raid.  It  doesn't  matter  now  whether  it  was  I  or  someone  else  who  saw  Moreira  killed.&quot;  "