 b"8:37  p.m.  All  is  quiet  at  Indian  Point  No.  3  power  station,  when  suddenly  a  huge  dog  jumps  out  of  the  bushes  and  eats  several  of  the  parts  vital  to  the  operation  of  the  plant's  main  generator.  As  quickly  as  he  has  come,  the  dog  disappears.  8:56  p.m.  Ten  miles  away,  at  the  Millwood  power  station,  another  huge  dog,  not  the  same  as  the  first  dog  but  a  different  one,  jumps  out  of  the  nearby  woods  and  eats  some  insulation  off  an  important  transformer.  This  triggers  circuit  breakers.  8:57  p.m.  Every  person  in  Queens  between  the  ages  of  fourteen  and  thir-  ty-six  gets  out  of  the  shower  and  turns  on  a  blow-dryer.  This  places  an  enor-  mous  strain  on  the  power  reserves  of  the  system.  9:06  p.m.  A  guy,  I  don't  even  re-  member  his  name,  nobody  had  ever  seen  him  before  or  recognized  him  at  all,  happens  to  fly  his  helicopter  over  Con  Edison's  computerized  control  cen-  ter  on  the  West  Side  and  throws  a  ciga-  rette  butt  out  the  window  of  his  helicop-  ter,  and  in  a  one-in-a-million  chance  an  ash  lands  on  some  computer  tape  and  burns  some  holes  that  spell  out  &quot;Shut  down  all  systems&quot;  in  computer  language.  9:10  p.m.  While  technicians  work  frantically  to  fix  the  computer,  yet  a  third  huge  dog  attacks  the  power  lines  between  Westchester  and  [REDACTED],  eating  the  insulators  off  the  towers  and  triggering  circuit  breakers.  9:14  p.m.  Further  strain  is  placed  on  an  already  stretched-to-the-limits  situation  when  every  Cuisinart  in  Westchester  turns  itself  on  simulta-  neously,  as  if  following  some  eerie  brand-specific  command.  9:17  p.m.  Con  Ed  repairmen  have  just  about  fixed  one  power  station  when  suddenly,  out  ofthe  sewers  hundreds  of  giant  white  alligators!  (There  really  is  such  a  thing,  and  if  you  don't  believe  me  you  can  call  the  Department  of  Sanitation  and  ask  them  whether  there  is  such  athingor  not.)  The  repairmen  have  to  go  back  into  their  trucks  and  wait  for  the  alligators  to  go  away,  and  this  costs  precious  min-  utes  as  station  after  station  loses  power.  9:19  p.m.  One  of  Con  Ed's  chief  engineers,  working  desperately  against  the  clock,  devises  a  plan  to  forestall  blackout  by  &quot;load  shedding&quot;-i.e.,  al-  lowing  power  loss  in  some  areas  until  the  system  regains  its  balance-and  he  gives  the  plan  to  Con  Ed  chairman  Charles  Luce.  Before  Luce  can  put  the  plan  into  effect,  however,  while  he  is  giving  the  first  instructions  by  phone,  he  accidentally  leaves  the  plan  where  his  baby  sister  can  reach  it,  and  she  gets  into  it  and  scatters  the  papers  around  and  crumples  up  some  pages  and  gets  her  teething  cracker  all  over  it.  By  the  time  he  can  get  the  papers  away  from  her  and  copy  them  over,  the  domino-  like  sequence  of  power-plant  shutdown  is  well  on  its  way.  9:20  p.m.  Throughout  the  five  bor-  oughs,  packs  of  huge  dogs  begin  eating  the  actual  power  lines.  9:30  p.m.  Herds  of  buffalo,  nobody  has  any  idea  where  they  came  from,  probably  from  [REDACTED],  begin  stamped-  ing  across  New  York  State  and  start  rubbing  up  against  the  exposed  power  lines  where  the  dogs  have  eaten  offthe  insulation.  Also,  walking  catfish  and  poisonous  Mexican  spitting  mice  do  this.  They  impede  last-minute  efforts  to  restore  power.  9:34  p.m.  Total  blackout.  "