 b"THE  reader  should  be  fore-  warned  that  the  following  pages  will  not  be  found  in  the  &quot;Libel-  lus&quot;  (1615)  of  Adam  of  Bremen,  who,  as  everyone  knows,  was  born  and  died  in  the  eleventh  century.  They  were  unearthed  by  Lappenberg  in  a  manuscript  in  the  Bodleian,  at  Oxford,  and,  given  the  wealth  of  circumstantial  details,  he  judged  them  a  late  inter-  polation,  but  he  published  them  as  a  curiosity  in  his  &quot;Analecta  Germanica&quot;  (Leipzig,  1894).  The  opinion  of  a  mere  Argentine  amateur  is  of  little  account;  let  the  reader  judge  these  pages  for  himself,  My  translation  is  faithful,  but  it  is  not  literal.  Adam  of  Bremen  wrote:  Of  the  peoples  who  live  on  the  edge  of  the  wilderness  that  stretches  away  on  the  other  shore  of  the  Barbarian  [REDACTED],  beyond  the  lands  where  the  wild  horse  breeds,  the  worthiest  of  mention  are  the  Urns.  The  uncertain  or  in-  vented  information  of  traders,  the  dan-  gers  of  the  route,  and  the  plundering  of  nomads  prevented  me  from  reach-  ing  their  territory.  It  is  clear,  however,  that  their  rudimentary,  unfrequented  villages  are  located  in  the  lowlands  of  the  Vistula.  Unlike  the  Swedes,  the  Urns  profess  the  true  faith  of  Christ,  untainted  by  Arianism  or  by  the  blood-  thirsty  worship  of  devils,  from  which  the  royal  houses  of  England  and  other  northern  nations  trace  their  lineages.  The  Urns  are  herdsmen,  ferrymen,  shamans,  forgers  of  swords,  and  har-  ness-makers.  Owing  to  the  rigors  of  war,  they  barely  till  the  soil.  One  in-  variably  comes  to  resemble  one's  enemies,  and  the  steppe  and  the  tribes  that  roam  it  have  made  the  Urns  very  skilled  in  the  handling  of  horse  and  bow.  Their  spears,  since  they  are  used  by  horse-  men  and  not  foot  soldiers,  are  longer  than  ours.  As  may  be  imagined,  the  Urns  are  unfamiliar  with  pen,  inkhorn,  and  parch-  ment.  'They  carve  their  characters  as  our  ancestors  carved  the  runes  which  Odin  revealed  to  them  after  having  hung  from  the  ash  tree-Odin  given  to  Odin-through  nine  days  and  nights.  To  this  general  information  I  add  an  account  of  what  I  was  told  by  a  traveller  from  [REDACTED],  UIf  Sigurdsson,  a  man  of  grave  and  measured  words.  We  met  in  Uppsala,  near  the  temple.  The  wood  fire  had  died,  and  the  cold  and  the  dawn  entered  through  the  un-  even  chinks  in  the  wall.  Outside,  the  gray  wolves,  which  eat  the  flesh  of  the     heathens  sacrificed  to  the  three  gods,  left  their  wary  tracks  in  the  snow.  Our  conversation  began  in  Latin,  as  is  usual  with  churchmen,  but  we  were  not  long  in  slipping  into  the  tongue  of  the  north,  which  extends  from  Thule  all  the  way  to  the  marketplaces  of  Asia.  The  man  said  :  As  I  am  of  the  race  ofthe  skalds,  to  learn  that  the  poetry  of  the  Urns  con-  sists  of  a  single  word  was  enough  for  me  to  set  out  in  search  of  them  and  the  way  that  would  lead  totheir  land.  Not  without  exhaustion  and  hardship  didI  arrive  there  after  a  yearlong  journey.  It  was  night,  and  all  those  I  came  upon  shot  me  odd  looks,  and  one  or  two  stones  were  hurled  at  me.  Seeing  the  light  ofa  blacksmith's  forge,  I  approached  it,  The  smith,  whose  name  was  Orm,  offered  me  lodging  for  the  night.  His  language  was  more  or  less  ours.  We  exchanged  a  few  words.  From  his  lips  I  heard  for  the  first  time  the  name  of  the  reigning  king-Gunnlaug.  I  learned  that  after  his  last  war  he  looked  with  suspicion  upon  strangers  and  that  it  was  his  cus-  tom  to  crucify  them.  To  avoid  that  fate,  which  is  less  fitting  to  a  man  than  a  god,  I  undertook  the  composi-  tion  of  a  dr\xc3\xa9pa,  or  ode,  that  celebrated  the  victories,  the  fame,  and  the  mercy  of  the  king.  I  had  barely  committed  it  to  memory  when  two  men  came  searching  for  me.  I  did  not  want  to  surrender  my  sword  to  them,  but  I  let  myself  be  led  away.  There  were  still  stars  in  the  sky.  We  crossed  the  first  of  several  stretches  of  open  ground  with  huts  on  every  side.  I  had  been  led  to  expect  pyramids,  but  what  I  saw  in  the  middle  of  this  square  was  a  yellow  wooden  post.  At  the  top  of  it  I  made  out  the  black  figure  of  a  fish.  Orm,  who  had  accompanied  us,  said  that  the  fish  was  the  Word.  In  the  next  opening,  I  saw  ared  post  marked  with  a  disk.  Orm  said  that  this  was  the  Word.  I  asked  him  to  tell  me  it.  He  was  a  simple  artisan,  he  said,  and  he  did  not  know.  In  the  third  opening,  which  was  the  last,  I  saw  a  post  painted  black,  with  a  design  on  it  that  I  have  forgotten.  On  the  far  side  of  the  square  was  a  long,  straight  wall  whose  ends  I  couldnot  catch  sight  of.  Later  I  found  out  that  it  was  circular,  that  it  supported  a  mud  roof,  that  it  enclosed  a  single  chamber,  and  that  it  stretched  around  the  whole  city.  The  horses  tied  to  the  hitching  post  outside  were  of  small  stature  and  had  long  manes.  The  blacksmith  was  not  allowed  entrance.  Inside  there  were  armed  men,  all  standing.  Gunnlaug,  the  king,  who  was  ailing,  lay  with  his  eyes  half  shut  on  some  camel  hides  on  a  kind  of  dais.  He  was  a  wasted,  yellowish  man,  a  sacred  and  almost  for-  gotten  thing;  old  scars  spanned  the  width  of  his  chest.  One  of  the  soldiers  opened  a  way  for  me.  Someone  had  brought  a  harp.  Kneeling,  I  intoned  the  dr\xc3\xa9pa  in  a  low  voice.  There  was  no  lack  ofthe  rhetorical  figures,  the  alliterations,  and  the  stresses  that  the  form  demands.  I  do  not  know  whether  the  king  understood  it,  but  he  gave  me  a  silver  ring,  which  I  still  preserve.  Under  his  pillow,  I  glimpsed  the  edge  of  a  dagger.  To  his  right  was  a  chess-  board  with  a  hundred  squares  and  a  handful  of  scattered  pieces.  The  guard  shoved  me  to  the.rear.  A  man  took  my  place  and  stood  before  the  king  but  did  not  kneel.  He  plucked  the  harp  as  if  tuning  it,  and  in  a  low  voice  he  uttered  the  word  that  I  had  come  in  search  of  and  had  not  yet  fathomed.  &quot;It  no  longer  means  anything  now,&quot;  someone  said  reverently.  I  saw  tears,  Theman  raised  or  modulated  his  voice,  and  his  scarcely  varyingchords  were  monotonous  or,  still  better,  infinite.  I  would  have  liked  his  song  to  go  on  forever  and  to  be  my  life.  Abruptly,  it  stopped.  I  heard  the  noise  the  harp  made  when  the  singer,  no  doubt  in  utter  exhaustion,  threw  it  down.  We  all  went  out  in  disorder.  I  was  one  of  the  last.  In  astonishment  I  saw  that  the  light  was  waning  on  an-  other  day.  I  walked  a  few  steps,  when  a  hand  on  my  shoulder  made  me  pause.  &quot;The  king's  ring  was  your  talis-  man,&quot;  I  was  told,  &quot;but  you  will  not  be  long  in  meeting  your  death,  because  you  have  heard  the  Word.  I,  Bjarni  Thorkelsson,  will  save  you.  I  am  of  the  race  of  the  skalds.  In  your  ode  you  called  blood  the  sword's  water  and  a  battle  the  web  of  men.  I  remember  having  heard  those  figures  from  my  father's  father.  You  and  I  are  poets,  and  I  will  save  you.  Nowadays,  we  do  not  define  each  thing  that  our  song  quickens;  we  express  it  in  a  single  word,  which  is  the  Word.&quot;  &quot;I  was  unable  to  hear  it,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  beg  you  to  tell  me  what  it  is.&quot;  He  paused  for  a  moment  or  two  and  replied,  &quot;I  have  sworn  not  to  di-  vulge  it.  Besides,  nobody  can  teach  anything.  You  must  find  it  out  for  yourself.  But  let's  hurry;  your  life  is  in  danger.  I'll  hide  you  in  my  house,  where  no  one  will  dare  look  for  you.  If  the  wind  is  favorable,  tomorrow  " b"you  will  sail  southward  on  the  river.&quot;  So  began  the  adventure  that  was  to  last  so  many  winters.  I  shall  not  go  into  all  that  befell  me,  nor  shall  I  try  to  give  an  orderly  account  of  my  shifting  fortunes.  I  was  an  oarsman,  slave  deal-  er,  slave,  woodcutter,  highwayman,  singer,  and  taster  of  deep  waters  and  metals.  I  suffered  captivity,  and  spent  a  year  in  the  quicksilver  mines,  which  loosen  one's  teeth.  I  fought  side  by  side  with  men  of  Sweden  in  the  Varan-  gian  guard  at  MikligarOr  [Constan-  tinople].  On  the  shores  ofthe  Sea  of  Azov  I  was  loved  by  a  woman  whom  I  shall  never  forget;  I  left  her  or  she  left  me-it  amounts  to  the  same  thing.  I  betrayed  and  I  was  betrayed.  More  than  once  fate  made  me  kill.  A  Greek  soldier  challenged  me  and  gave  me  the  choice  between  two  swords.  One  was  a  hand's  breadth  longerthan  the  other.  Knowing  he  was  out  to  intimi-  date  me,  I  chose  the  shorter.  He  asked  me  why.  I  replied  that  with  either  the  distance  from  my  hand  to  his  heart  was  the  same.  At  the  edge  of  the  Black  Sea  stands  the  runic  epitaph  I  carved  for  my  comrade  in  arms,  Leif  Arnar-  son.  I  have  fought  the  Blue  Men  of  Serkland,  the  Saracens.  In  the  course  of  time  I  have  been  many  men;  it  was  a  whirlwind,  a  long  dream,  but  all  the  while  the  main  thing  was  the  Word.  From  time  to  time  I  disbe-  lieved  in  it.  I  kept  telling  myself  that  to  renounce  the  beautiful  game  of  com-  bining  beautiful  words  was  senseless,  and  that  there  was  no  reason  to  search  for  a  single,  and  perhaps  imaginary,  word.  Such  reasoning  was  vain,  A  mis-  sionary  suggested  the  word  &quot;God,&quot;  which  I  rejected.  One  early  dawn,  along  the  banks  of  a  river  that  widened  into  a  sea,  I  believed  I  had  come  upon  the  revelation.  Returning  to  the  land  of  the  Urns,  I  had  some  trouble  finding  the  singer's  house.  When  I  did,  I  entered  and  spoke  my  name.  By  that  time,  night  had  fallen.  From  the  floor,  Thorkels-  son  told  me  to  light  a  candle  in  the  bronze  candlestick.  His  face  had  aged  so  much  that  I  could  not  helpthink-  ing  that  I,  too,  was  old.  As  is  the  cus-  tom,  I  asked  about  his  king.  &quot;'The  king  is  no  longer  called  Gunn-  laug,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;His  name  is  now  an-  other.  Tell  me  all  about  your  travels.&quot;  I  did  so  in  exact  order  and  with  a  great  many  details  thatI  shall  omit  here.  Before  I  had  finished,  he  asked  me,  &quot;Did  you  often  sing  in  those  lands?&quot;  The  question  took  me  by  surprise.  &quot;At  first,  I  sang  to  earn  my  living,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Later,  overcome  by  a  fear  I  do  not  understand,  I  was  estranged  from  my  harp  and  my  song.&quot;  &quot;All  right,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  may  go  on  with  your  story  now.&quot;  I  obeyed.  After  I  had  finished,  a  long  silence  followed.  &quot;The  first  woman  you  had-what  didshe  give  you?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;Everything,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Life  gave  me  everything  as  well.  Life  gives  everything  to  everyone,  but  most  men  are  unaware  of  it.  My  voice  is  tired  and  my  fingers  weak,  but  lis-  ten  to  me.&quot;  He  took  up  his  harp  and  uttered  the  word  &quot;wndr,&quot;  which  means  &quot;wonder.&quot;  The  dying  man's  song  held  me  rapt,  but  in  it  and  in  his  chords  I  recognized  my  own  verses,  the  slave  woman  who  gave  me  my  first  love,  the  men  I  had  killed,  the  chill  of  dawn,  daybreak  over  the  water,  the  oars.  I  took  up  the  harp  and  sang  to  a  different  word.  &quot;All  right,&quot;  the  other  man  said,  and  I  had  to  draw  close  to  hear  him.  &quot;You  have  understood.&quot;  "