 b"THE  psychiatrist  began  his  explo-  rations  along  the  accustomed  paths,  but  I  soon  put  a  stop  to  that.  &quot;Do  not  vex  yourself,  Doctor,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;with  all  this  poking  and  prying  into  the  darker  side  of  infancy.  We  shall  get  nowhere  with  fixations.  Your  Oedipuses  and  your  ids,  your  Electras  and  your  Jungs,  your  Adlers  and  your  Gestalts-let  us  clear  them  all,  bag  and  baggage,  out  of  this  conversation.  It  happens,  you  see,  that  I  know  the  cause  of  my  present  state  of  acute  melan-  cholia.&quot;  &quot;Indeed!&quot;  he  said,  permitting  him-  self  the  unlovely  smile  of  a  psychiatrist  who  has  heard  a  similar  claim  before.  &quot;Yes.  From  the  age  of  six-&quot;  &quot;You  propose  to  tell  me  the  story  of  your  life?&quot;  &quot;Exactly,  if  by  'life&quot;  you  mean  Life.  You  have,  I  suppose,  in  your  leisure  hours,  read  some  lives,  letters,  mem-  oirs,  and  autobiographies?&quot;  &quot;Of  course.  In  one's  endless  search  for  a  deeper  understanding  of  the  e  0\xe2\x80\x943,  &quot;Good.  Then  you  may  be  able  to  appreciate  to  some  degree  the  frustra-  tions  I  have  had  to  endure.  Any  man  with  the  desire  to  write  his  memoirs&quot;  &quot;You  desire  to  write  your  mem-  oirs?&quot;  &quot;Naturally.&quot;  &quot;And  at  what  age  did  you  first  ex-  perience  this  desire?&quot;  he  asked,  preparing  to  make  a  note.  &quot;At  six,  as  I  have  been  trying  to  tell  you.  It  was,  as  I  recall,  on  the  morning  of  my  sixth  birthday  that  the  revelation  came  to  me.  I  was  patted  on  the  head  by  a  neighbor,  whose  name  I  forget-&quot;  &quot;Hard?&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  mean,  hard?&quot;  &quot;Was  it  a  pat?&quot;  &quot;Soft  to  medium.  I  felt  no  aftereffects,  oth-  er  than  distaste.  'And  what,&quot;  this  old  gentle-  man  asked  me,  'are  you  going  to  do  when  you  grow  up,  my  boy?'--  to  which  I  replied  with-  out  hesitation,  'I  am  going  to  write  my  memoirs,&quot;  and  from  that  resolve  I  havenev-  er  faltered.&quot;  &quot;I  see.  hard  You  were  born,  I  take  it,  into  a  poor  and  under-  privileged  home,  and  your  earliest  recol-  lection  is,  perhaps,  of  the  jet-black  beads  on  your  mother's  faded  bonnet?&quot;  &quot;My  mother  never  wore  a  bonnet.  I  spoke  to  her  sharply  about  that,  in  or  around  the  month  of  January,  1913.  'What  is  the  use  to  me,'  I  said,  'of  the  utterly  unmemorable  clothes  you  con-  sistently  wear?  Nothing  trails  or  jin-  gles.  My  father  is  just  as  bad,  Here  you  both  are-nice,  kind,  affectionate  par-  ents  with  a  sufficiency  of  means,  living  in  a  comfortable,  well-ordered  home,  with  not  so  much  as  a  backhanded  blow  from  the  warming  pan  or  a  paragraph's  worth  of  traumatic  obscenities  between  you.'  I  had  mastered  the  language,  you  see,  before  my  seventh  birthday;  it  was  the  material  that  was  lacking.  'Why  can't  my  daddy  come  home  roaring  drunk  every  Saturday  night,,  I  de-  manded,  choking  back  my  tears,  'or  at  least  waste  his  substance  on  some  ludicrous  hobby  like  collecting  horse  brasses?  And  where  are  theeccentric  uncles  and  aunts  that  any  dedicated  autobiographer  hasa  right  to  expect?  Two  dull  bankers  and  an  Aunt  Sybil,  who  never  threw  a  fit  or  attacked  a  clergyman  with  an  umbrella  in  her  life!  &quot;  &quot;''There  were  compensations,  sure-  ly?&quot;  the  psychiatrist  suggested.  &quot;You  had  a  lovable  nanny,  I  do  not  doubt,  full  of  quaint  aphorisms  and  to  this  day,  at  the  ripe  old  age  of  eighty-six,  a  cherished  repository  of  childhood  mem-  ories.&quot;  &quot;We  shall  get  on  a  great  deal  faster  if  you  will  allow  me  to  tell  my  story  in  my  own  way.  Suffice  it  to  say  that,  leafing  through  my  journal  in  my  tenth  year,  I  could  find  nothing  more  worthy  of  publication  than  a  fall  of  soot  at  the  Vicarage  in  the  winter  of  '16  and  a  runaway  horse  stopped,  within  twenty  yards,  by  a  man  called  Heathers.  You  may  imagine  with  what  eagerness  I  looked  forward  to  my  departure  from  this  barren  Elysium  for  a  boarding  school  in  Kent.  There,  as  my  extensive  reading  told  me,  I  should  be  miserably  unhappy.  Bullied  and  despised,  longing  in  vain  for  privacy,  the  leaves  ripped  wantonly  from  my  favorite  copy  of  Vergil,  I  should  hug  to  my  lonely  breast  a  rich  and  ever-growing  store  of  mem-  orable  resentments.  Add  to  that  the  possibility,  with  luck,  of  a  few  unsavory  incidents  and  all  the  disastrous  up-  heavals  of  puberty,  and  you  see  why  I  set  off  with  the  highest  hopes  and  a  woolly  bear  deliberately  displayed  among  my  luggage  to  excite  derision.&quot;  &quot;And?&quot;  he  put  in,  shooting  an  ex-  pectant  glance  over  his  spectacles.  &quot;I  enjoyed  every  minute  of  it.  Top  of  the  class  at  almost  every  stage  of  my  educational  career,  I  might  at  least  have  earned  some  sneering  shouts  of  Beastly  swot!'  but  I  had  the  misfor- " b"tune  to  be  hopelessly  good  at  games  into  the  bargain  and  accordingly  suf-  fered  from  a  high  degree  of  unreadable  popularity.  I  ended  my  school  days  with  about  two  dozen  silver  cups  and  a  shelf  of  irreproachable  books  bound  in  half-  calf.  Not  a  usable  paragraph  among  the  lot.  You  cannot  make  a  silk  purse  out  of  half-calf.  I  was  not  even  struck  down  during  my  adolescence  byone  of  those  lingering  and  near-fatal  illnesses  out  of  which  so  many  a  chapter  of  half-  caught  whispers,  gently  undulating  cur-  tains,  intimations  of  mortality,  and  semiconscious  maunderings  has  been  constructed  by  more  fortunate  writers.&quot;  &quot;You  proceeded,  of  course,  to  Ox-  ford?&quot;  &quot;Inevitably,  yes.&quot;  &quot;That  would  be,  let  me  see,  in  the  twenties,  would  it  not-that  golden  age  when  such  rare  spirits  as  Evelyn  Waugh  and  Harold  Acton  transmuted  the  most  mundane  events  into  precious  metal.  Entrancing  cups  of  tea  with  Father  Ronald  Knox,  long  unforget-  table  evenings  while  the  claret  circulated  and  Maurice  Bowra  and  John  Betje-  man-&quot;  &quot;Never  met  any  of  them.  Strange  as  it  may  seem  to  you,  who  have  clearly  read  as  many  memoirs  as  the  next  man,  I  did  not  even  know  they  were  there.  Out  of  the  dozens-I  might  even  say  the  scores-of  friends  I  made,  not  one  enriched  my  journal  with  a  quotable  epigram  or  possessed  a  name  that  could  with  advantage  be  dropped  into  an  index.  Once  only,  I  remember,  did  I  believe  myself  to  be  upon  the  verge  of  a  bit  of  copy,  when  a  man  called  Smith,  or  Smithers,but  otherwise  un-  remarkable,  rolled  up  his  sleeve  one  lovely  May  morning,  as  the  sunlight  glittered  and  danced  upon  the  waters  of  the  Cherwell  and  from  every  tower  and  spire  the  chiming  bells  seemed  to  re\xc3\xa9cho  a  cascading  obbligato  to  the  yearning  thoughts,  the  heartache,  and  the  pain-&quot;  ''Yes,  yes.&quot;  &quot;Forgive  an  old  man  his  dreams.  It  was  halfpast  eleven,  to  cut  a  lot  of  chiming  short,  and  this  chap  Smithers,  or  Smithson,  was  trying  to  fish  out  of  the  water  a  pewter  tankard  that  he  had  inadvertently  dropped,  when  I  chanced  to  see  upon  his  forearm  the  telltale  pin-  pricks&quot;  &quot;Heroin?  Cocaine?&quot;  &quot;Neither.  Apparently  the  man  had  fallen  into  a  bramble  bush  while  out  beagling.  Everything  I  touched  turned  to  literary  dross.  Nothing  that  glittered  was  golden-not  even  this  man's  arm.  And  it  was  no  better  when,  with  renewed  hope,  I  left  my  alma  ma-ter's  sheltering  walls,  its  smooth  lawns  and  sequestered  groves,  and  found  my-  self  pitchforked-metaphorically,  of  course-into  the  great  bustling  world  outside.  Now  was  the  time  for  me  to  be  'taken  up,'  to  my  delighted  surprise,  by  the  good  and  great.  Lady  Astor  would  ask  me  to  tea,.  Max  Beerbohm,  Lady  Cunard,  and,  I  need  hardly  add,  Lady  Ottoline  Morrell  would  insist  on  my  shy  attendance  at  soir\xc3\xa9es,  where  the  talk  would  fizz  and  sparkle  like  the  pink  champagne  served  by  kind-  ly  old  butlers.  Actresses,  statesmen,  poets,  judges  would  litter  the  pages  of  my  journal.  'Luncheon  with  Augustus  John,'  I  should  note.  'On  to  Ellen  Terry's,  where  Bertrand  Russell  had  a  good  story  about  H.R.H.  Beaten  at  bezique  by  Winston.&quot;  Reality  once  again  let  me  down.  These  people  were  all  either  dead  or  unaware  of  my  youthful  promise.&quot;  On  his  pad  the  psychiatrist  was  mak-  ing  a  drawing,  which  looked,  from  where  I  sat,  like  a  fir  tree  with  an  in-  verted  bucket  on  top.  &quot;Though  I  did  once,&quot;  I  went  on,  raising  my  voice,  &quot;&quot;see  Stanley  Baldwin  at  a  club,  drinking  soup.&quot;  &quot;What  happened?&quot;  &quot;He  had  a  chop  to  follow.&quot;  &quot;And  then?&quot;  &quot;Cheese.&quot;  &quot;I  see.&quot;  He  initiated  those  small  move-     ments-a  squaring  up  of  papers,  an  un-  crossing  of  the  legs-that  mean  one's  three-quarters  of  an  hour  are  nearly  over.  &quot;'To  recapitulate,  then,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;you  have  led  a  totally  undistinguished  life,  unenriched  by  eccentric  relatives,  misery  at  school,  Evelyn  at  Oxford,  or  even  acquaintanceships  scraped  in  lat-  er  life  with  household  names,  andyou  feel  inhibited  by  these  disadvantages  from  writing  the  memoirs  that,  from  an  early  age,  it  has  been  your  ambition  to  produce.  You  have  become  aware,  to  put  it  bluntly,  that  insignificance  cannot  effectively  be  chronicled.  Is  that  an  adequate  summary?&quot;  &quot;Well,  now-&quot;  I  began.  &quot;Your  case  is  in  many  respects  unique.  Would  to  God  that  it  were  not  so.  It  only  remains  for  me  to  thank  you,  on  behalf  ofthe  read-  ing  public,  for  your  unpar-  alleled  restraint  and  self-denial,  and  to  say  that  the  least  I  can  do  under  the  cir-  cumstances  is  to  remit  my  customary  fee.&quot;  I  thought  that  very  kind.  I  left  him,  as  one  does  after  unburdening  oneself  to  an  understanding  listener,  in  a  much  calmer  and  more  contented  frame  of  mind.  Indeed,  such  was  my  euphoria  that  no  task,  however  difficult,  not  even  the  writing  of  my  memoirs,  seemed  beyond  my  powers.  The  least  I  can  do,  should  this  mood  persist,  will  be  to  send  the  psychiatrist  a  copy.  "