 b"ARDIS  BAascomBE,  the  tobacco  heir-  ess,  who  twenty  years  ago  was  a  [REDACTED]  beauty  queen,  is  now  sitting  in  the  kitchen  of  her  San  Francisco  house,  getting  drunk.  Four-  thirty,  an  October  afternoon,  and  Ardis,  with  a  glass  full  of  vodka  and  melted  ice,  a  long  cigarette  going  and  another  smoldering  in  an  almost  full  ashtray,  is  actually  doing  several  things  at  once:  drinking  and  smoking,  of  course,  kill-  ing  herself,  her  older  daughter,  Linda,  has  said  (Ardis  is  no  longer  speaking  to  Linda,  who  owns  and  runs  a  health-  food  store),  and  watching  the  news  on  her  small  color  Sony  TV.  She  is  waiting  for  her  younger  daughter,  Carrie,  who  goes  to  Stanford  but  lives  at  home  and  usually  shows  up  about  now.  And  she  is  waiting  also  for  a  guest,  a  man  she  knew  way  back  wuen,  who  called  this  morning,  whose  name  she  is  having  trouble  with.  Black?  White?  Green?  It  is  a  color  name;  she  is  sure  of  that.  Twenty  years  ago  Ardis  was  a  small  and  slender  black-haired  girl,  with  amazing  wide,  thickly  lashed  dark-azure  eyes  and  smooth,  pale,  almost  translucent  skin-a  classic  43616e616461ern  beauty,  except  for  the  sexily  curled,  con-  temptuous  mouth.  And  brilliant,  too:  straight  A's  at  Chapel  Hill.  An  infinitely  promising,  rarely  lovely  girl:  everyone  thought  so.  A  large  portrait  of  her  then  hangs  framed  on  the  kitchen  wall:  bare-shouldered,  in  something  gauzy,  light-she  is  dressed  for  a  formal  dance,  the  Winter  Germans  or  the  May  Frolics.  The  portrait  is  flyspecked  and  streaked  with  grime  from  the  kitchen  fumes.  Ardis  despises  cleaning  up,  and  hates  having  maids  around;  periodical-  ly  she  calls  a  janitorial  service,  and  some-  times  she  has  various  rooms  repainted,  covering  the  grime.  Nevertheless,  the  picture  shows  the  face  of  a  beautiful  young  girl.  Also  hanging  there,  gilt-  framed  and  similarly  grimed,  are  sev-  eral  family  portraits:  elegant  and  up-  right  ancestors,  attesting  to  family  substance-al-  though  in  Ardis's  messy  kitchen  they  have  a  slightly  comic  look  of  inappropriateness.  Ardis's  daughter  Carrie,  who  in  a  cou-  ple  of  years  will  in-  herit  several  of  those  tobacco  millions,  is  now  driving  up  from  the  peninsula,  toward  home,  in  her  jaunty  brown  felt  hat  and  patched  faded  jeans,  in  her  dirty  battered  Ford  pickup  truck.  She  is  trying  to  concentrate  on  Thomas  Jef-  ferson  (History  I)or  the  view:  blond  subdivided  hills  and  groves  of  rattling  dusty  eucalyptus  trees  that  smell  like  cat  pee.  She  is  listening  to  the  conversa-  tions  on  her  CB  radio,  but  a  vision  of  her  mother,  atthat  table,  with  her  emptying  glass  and  heavy  blue  aura  of  smoke,  fills  Carrie's  mind;  she  is  per-  vaded  by  the  prospect  of  her  mother  and  filled  with  guilt,  apprehension,  sympathy.  Her  mother,  who  used  to  be  so  much  fun,  now  looks  as  swollen  and  dead-eyed,  as  thick-skinned,  as  a  frog.  Hoping  for  change,  Carrie  has  con-  tinued  to  live  at  home,  seldom  admit-  ting  why.  Her  older  sister,  Linda,  of  the  health-food  store,  is  more  severe,  or  simply  fatalistic.  &quot;If  she  wants  to  drink  herself  to  death  she  will,&quot;  says  Linda.  &quot;Your  being  there  won't  help,  or  change  a  thing.&quot;  Of  course  she's  right,  but  Carrie  sticks  around.  Neither  Linda  nor  Carrie  is  as  love-  ly  as  their  mother  was.  They  are  pretty  girls-especially  Linda,  who  is  snub-  nosed  and  curly-haired.  Carrie  has  straight  dark  hair  and  anose  like  that  of  her  father:  Clayton  Bascombe,  former  [REDACTED]  Deke,  former  tennis  star,  for-  mer  husband  of  Ardis.  His  was  a  nice  straight  nose-Clayton  was  an  excep-  tionally  handsome  boy-but  it  is  too  long  now  for  Carrie's  small  tender  face.  Clayton,  too,  had  a  look  of  in-  nocence;  perhaps  it  was  his  innocent  look  that  originally  attracted  Ardis's  strong  instinct  for  destruction.  In  any  case,  after  four  years  of  marriage,  two  daughters,  Ardis  decided  that  Clayton  was  &quot;impossible,&quot;  and  threw  him  out-out  of  the  house  that  her  parents  had  given  them,  in  Winston-  [REDACTED].  Now  Clayton  is  inreal  estate  in  Wilmington,  N.C.,  having  ended  up  where  hebegan,  before  college  and  the  adventure  of  marriage  to  Ardis.  Ardis  has  never  remarried.  For  many  years,  in  [REDACTED],  as  a  young  divorc\xc3\xa9e,  she  was  giddily  popu-  lar,  off  to  as  many  parties  and  week-  ends  out  of  town  as  when  she  was  a  [REDACTED]  coed.  Then,  after  the  end  of  an  especially  violent  love  affair,  she  an-  nounced  that  she  was  tired  of  all  that  and  bored  with  all  her  friends.  With  the  two  girls,  Ardis  moved  to  San  Fran-  cisco,  bought  the  big  house  on  Vallejo  Street,  had  it  fashionably  decorated,  andbegan  another  round  of  parties  with  new  people-a  hectic  pace  that  gradually  slowed  to  fewer  parties,  invi-  tations,  friends.  People  became  &quot;boring&quot;  or  &quot;impossible,&quot;  as  the  neglected  house  decayed.  Ardis  spent  more  and  more  time  alone.  More  time  drunk.  The  girls,  who  from  childhood  had  been  used  to  their  mother's  lovers  (suitors,  beaux)  and  who  by  now  had  some  of  their  own,  were  at  first  quite  puzzled  by  their  absence:  Ardis,  with-  out  men  around?  'Then  Linda  said  to  Carrie,  &quot;Well,  Lord,  who'd  want  her  now?  Look  at  that  face.  Besides,  I  think  she'd  rather  drink.&quot;  In  some  ways  Ardis  has  been  a  won-  derful  mother,  though:  Carrie  some-  times  says  that  to  herself.  Always  there  were  terrific  birthday  parties,  presents,  clothes.  And  there  was  the  time  in  [REDACTED]  when  the  real-estate  woman  came  to  the  door  with  a  peti-  tion  about  Negroes-keeping  them  out,  land  values,  something  like  that.  Of  course  Ardis  refused  to  sign,  and  then  she  went  on:  &quot;And  in  answer  to  your  next  question,  I  sincerely  hope  that  both  my  daughters  marry  them.  I  un-  derstand  those  guys  are  really  great.  Not,  unfortunately,  from  personal  ex-  perience.&quot;  Well.  What  other  mother,  especially  in  [REDACTED],  would  ever  talk  like  that?  Aims  dislikes  paying  bills-especially  small  ones;  for  instance,  from  the  garbage  collectors,  although  she  loves  their  name:  Sunset  Scavenger  Company.  Thus  the  parking  area  is  lined  with  full  garbage  cans,  spilling  over  among  all  the  expensively  import-  ed  and  dying  rhodo-  dendrons  and  magnolia  trees,  the  already  dead  azaleas  in  their  rusted  cans.  Seeing  none  of  this,  Carrie  parks  her  truck.  She  gets  out  and  slams  the  door.  Five  o'clock.  Ardis  will  have  had  enough  drinks  to  make  her  " b"want  to  talk  a  lot,  although  she  will  be  just  beginning  to  not  make  sense.  Carrie  opens  the  front  door  and  goes  in,  and  she  hears  her  mother's  familiar  raucous  laugh  coming  from  the  kitchen.  Good,  she  is  not  alone.  Carrie  walks  in  that  direction,  as  Ar-  dis's  deep,  hoarse  voice  explains  to  someone,  &quot;'That  must  be  my  daughter  Carrie.  You  won't  believe-&quot;  Carrie  goes  into  the  kitchen  and  is  introduced  to  a  tall,  thin,  almost  bald,  large-nosed  man.  He  is  about  her  mother's  age  but  in  much  better  shape:  rich,  successful.  (Having  inherited  some  of  her  mother's  social  antennae,  Carrie  has  taken  all  this  in  without  really  thinking.)  In  Ardis's  dignified  slur,  his  name  sounds  like  Wopple  Grin.  &quot;ACTUALLY,&quot;  Ardis  tells  Carrie  later  on,  &quot;Walpole  Greene  is  very  important  in  [REDACTED],  on  the  Hill.&quot;  This  has  been  said  in  the  heavily  nasal  accent  with  which  Ardis  imitates  extreme  snobs;  like  many  good  mimics,  she  is  aping  an  unacknowledged  part  of  herself.  Ardis  is  more  truly  snobbish  than  anyone,  caring  deeply  about  mon-  ey,  family,  and  position.  &quot;Although  he  certainly  wasn't  much  at  [REDACTED],&quot;  she  goes  on,  in  the  same  tone.  Tonight,  Ardis  looks  a  little  better  than  usual,  her  daughter  observes.  She  did  a  very  good  job  with  her  makeup;  somehow  her  eyes  look  O.K.-not  as  popped  out  as  they  sometimes  do.  And  a  gauzy  scarf  around  her  throat  has  made  it  look  less  swollen.  Walpole  Greene,  who  is  indeed  im-  portant  in  [REDACTED],  although,  as  the  head  of  a  news  bureau,  not  exactly  in  Ardis's  sense  &quot;on  the  Hill,&quot;  thinks  how  odd  it  is  that  Ardis  should  have  sucha  funny-looking  kid.  Carrie,  reading  some  of  that  in  his  face,  thinks,  What  a  creep.  She  excuses  herself  to  go  upstairs.  She  smiles  pri-  vately  as  she  leaves,  repeating,  silently,  &quot;Wopple  Grin.&quot;  IN  Chapel  Hill,  all  those  years  ago,  in  the  days  when  Walpole  Greene  was  certainly  not  much-he  was  too  young,  too  skinny  and  tall;  with  his  big  nose  he  looked  like  a  bird-he  was  always  acutely  and  enragedly  aware  of  Ardis.  So  small  and  bright,  so  ad-  mired,  so  universally  lusted  after,  so  often  photographed  in  the  Daily  Tar-  heel  and  [REDACTED]  Magazine,  with  her  half-inviting,  half-disdainful  smile;  she  was  everywhere.  One  summer,  during  a  session  of  summer  school,  Walpole  felt  that  he  saw  Ardis  every  time  he  left  his  dorm:  Ardis  saying  &quot;Hey,  Wal-pole&quot;  (Wopple?  was  she  teasing  him?  )  in  the  same  voice  in  which  she  said  &quot;Hey&quot;  to  everyone.  He  saw  her  dancing  in  front  of  the  Y,  between  classes,  in  the  morning  -smiling,  mocking  the  dance.  He  glimpsed  her  through  the  windows  of  Harry's,  drinking  beer,  in  the  late  afternoon.  She  was  dressed  always  in  im-  maculate  pale  clothes:  flowered  cottons,  cashmere  cardigans.  And  at  night  he  would  see  her  anywhere  at  all:  coming  out  of  the  show,  at  record  concerts  in  Kenan  Stadium  (&quot;Music  Under  the  Stars&quot;  ),  emerging  from  the  Arboretum,  with  some  guy.  Usually  she  was  laugh-  ing,  which  made  even  then  a  surprising-  ly  loud  noise  from  such  a  small  thin  girl.  Her  laugh  and  her  walk  were  out  of  scale;  she  strode,  like  someone  very  tall  and  important.  Keeping  track  of  her,  Walpole,  who  had  an  orderly  mind,  began  to  observe  a  curious  pattern  in  the  escorts  of  Ardis:  midmornings  at  the  Y,  evenings  at  the  show,  or  at  Harry's,  she  was  apt  to  be  with  Gifford  Gwathmey,  a  well-known  S.A.E.,  a  handsome  blond  43616e616461ern  boy.  But  if  he  saw  her  in  some  more  dubious  place,  like  the  Arboretum,  late  at  night,  she  would  be  with  Henry  Mallory,  a  [REDACTED]  Psi  from  [REDACTED].  Ardis  always  looked  as  if  she  were  at  a  party,  having  a  very  good  time  but  at  the  same  time  observing  carefully  and  feeling  just  slightly  superior  to  it  all.  And  since  his  sense  of  himself  and  of  his  presence  at  [REDACTED]  was  precise-  ly  opposite  to  that,  Walpole  sometimes  dreamed  of  doing  violence  to  Ardis.  He  hated  her  almost  as  much  as  he  hated  the  dean  of  men,  who  in  a  con-  ference  had  suggested  that  Walpole  should  &quot;get  out  more,&quot;  should  &quot;try  to  mix  in.&quot;  It  was  a  melancholy  time  for  Wal-  pole,  all  around.  One  August  night,  in  a  stronger  than  usual  mood  of  self-pity,  Walpole  determined  to  do  what  he  had  all  sum-  mer  considered  doing:  he  would  stay  up  all  night  and  then  go  out  to  Gim-  ghoul  Castle  (the  Gimghouls  were  an  undergraduate  secret  society  )  and  watch  the  dawn  from  the  lookout  bench  there.  He  did  just  that,  drinking  cof-  fee  and  reading  from  &quot;The  Federalist  Papers,&quot;  and  then  riding  on  his  bike,  past  the  Arboretum  and  Battle  Park,  to  the  Castle.  The  lookout  bench  was  some  distance  from  the  main  building,  and  as  he  approached  it  Walpole  noted  that  a  group  of  people,  probably  Gim-  ghouls  and  their  dates,  were  out  there  drinking  still,  on  one  of  the  terraces.  He  settled  on  the  hard  stone  circu-  lar  bench,  in  the  dewy  pre-dawn  air,  and  focussed  his  attention  on  the  eastern  horizon.  And  then  suddenly,  soundlessly-and  drunkenly:  she  was  plastered-Ardis  appeared.  Weaving  toward  him,  she  sat  down  on  the  bench  beside  him,  though  not  too  near.  &quot;You  came  out  here  to  look  at  the  " b"sunrise?&quot;  she  slurred,  conversationally.  &quot;God,  Wopple,  that's  wonderful.&quot;  Wunnerful.  Tears  of  hatred  sprang  to  Walpole's  eyes-fortunately  invisible.  He  choked;  in  a  minute  he  would  hit  her,  very  hard.  Unaware  that  she  was  in  danger,  Ardis  got  stiffly  to  her  feet;  she  bent  awkwardly  toward  him  and  placed  a  cool  bourbon-tasting  kiss  on  Walpole's  mouth.  &quot;I  love  you,  Wopple,&quot;  Ardis  said,  &quot;I  truly  and  purely  do.&quot;  The  sun  came  up.  He  didn't  hate  her  anymore-of  course  he  would  not  hit  her.  How  could  he  hit  a  girl  who  had  kissed  him  and  spoken  of  love?  And  although  after  that  night  nothing  between  them  changed  overtly,  he  now  watched  her  as  a  lover  would.  With  love.  \xe2\x80\x9cLORD,  you're  lucky  I  didn't  rape  you  there  and  then,&quot;  says  Ardis  now,  having  heard  this  romantic  story.  She  is  exaggerating  the  slur  of  her  speech,  imitating  someone  even  drunker  than  she  is.  Walpole,  who  believes  that  in  a  way  he  has  loved  her  all  his  life,  laughs  sadly,  and  he  wonders  if  at  any  point  in  her  life  Ardis  could  have  been-he  backs  off  from  &quot;saved&quot;  and  settles  on  &quot;retrieved.&quot;  Such  a  waste:  such  beauty  gone,  and  brains  and  wit,  Walpole  himself  has  just  married  again,  for  the  fourth  time:a  young  woman  who,  he  has  already  begun  to  recognize,  is  not  very  nice,  or  bright.  He  has  little  luck  with  love.  It  is  not  necessarily  truethat  Ardis  would  have  been  better  off  with  him.  She  is  clearly  in  no  shape  to  go  out  to  dinner,  and  Walpole  wonders  if  he  shouldn't  cook  something  for  the  two  of  them  to  eat.  Scrambled  eggs?  He  looks  around  the  impossibly  disordered  kitchen,  at  stacks  of  dishes,  piled-up  newspapers,  a  smelly  cat  box  in  one  corner,  although  he  has  seen  no  cat.  He  reaches  and  pours  somemore  vodka  into  his  own  glass,  then  glances  over  at  Ardis,  whose  eyes  have  begun  to  close.  By  way  of  testing  her,  he  asks,  &quot;Something  I  always  wondered.  That  summer,  I  used  to  see  you  around  with  Gifford  Gwathmey,  and  then  later  you'd  be  with  Henry  Mallory.  Weren't  you  pinned  to  Gifford?&quot;  Ardis  abruptly  comes  awake,  and  emits  her  laugh.  &quot;Of  course  I  was  pinned  to  Giff,&quot;  she  chortles.  &quot;But  he  and  all  those  S.A.E.s  were  almost  as  boring  as  Dekes,  although  he  did  come  from  one  of  the  oldest  and  richest  families  in  [REDACTED].&quot;  (This  last  in  her  nasal  snob-imitating  voice.)  &quot;So  I  used  to  late-date  on  him  all  the  time,  mainly  with  Henry,  who  didn't  have  a  dime.  But  the  [REDACTED]  Psis  were  fun-a  lot  of  boys  from  New  York  and  Phila-  delphia.&quot;  She  laughs  again.  &quot;Between  dates,  I'd  rush  back  to  the  House  and  brush  my  teeth-talk  about  your  basic  fastidious  coed.  Henry  teased  me  about  always  tasting  of  Pepsodent.&quot;  For  a  moment  Ardis  looks  extremely  happy,  and  almost  young;  then  she  falls  slowly  forward  until  her  head  rests  on  the  ta-  ble  in  front  of  her,  and  she  begins  to  snore.  CARRIE,  who  has  recently  discovered  jazz,  is  upstairs  listening  to  old  Louis  Armstrong  records,  smoking  a  joint.  &quot;Pale  moon  shining  on  the  fields  below  ...&quot;  She  is  thinking,  as  she  often  does,  of  how  much  she  would  like  to  get  out  of  " b"this  house  for  a  while.  She  would  like  to  drop  out  of  school  for  a  term  or  two,  maybe  next  spring,  and  just  get  into  her  truck  with  a  few  clothes  and  some  money,  and  maybe  a  dog,  and  drive  around  the  country.  There  is  a  huge  circular  route  that  she  has  often  imag-  ined:  up  to  [REDACTED],  maybe  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  down  into  [REDACTED],  across  the  northern  plains  to  Chica-  go-she  knows  someone  there-New  England,  New  York,  and  down  the  coast  to  her  father,  in  Wilmington,  N.C.;  [REDACTED],  New  Orleans,  Tex-  as,  [REDACTED],  the  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED];  then  home,  by  way  of  Big  Sur.  Months  of  driving,  with  the  dogand  the  CB  radio  for  company.  In  the  meantime,  halfway  through  her  second  joint,  she  sighs  deeply  and  realizes  that  she  is  extremely  hungry,  ravenous.  She  carefully  stubs  out  the  joint  and  goes  downstairs.  Walpole  Greene,  whose  presence  she  had  forgotten,  is  standing  in  the  pan-  try,  looking  lost.  Ardis  has  passed  out.  Having  also  forgotten  that  she  thought  he  was  a  creep,  Carrie  experiences  a  rush  of  sympathy  for  the  poor  guy.  &quot;Don't  worry,&quot;  she  tells  him.  &quot;She'll  be  O.K.&quot;  &quot;She  sure  as  hell  doesn't  look  O.K.,&quot;  says  Walpole  Greene.  &quot;She's  not  O.K.  No  one  who  drinks  that  much-&quot;  &quot;Oh,  well,  in  the  long  run  you're  right,&quot;  says  Carrie,  as  airily  as  though  she  had  never  worried  about  her  moth-  er's  health.  &quot;But  I  mean  for  now  she's  O.K.&quot;  &quot;Well.  I'd  meant  to  take  her  out  to  dinner.&quot;  &quot;Why  bother?  She  doesn't  eat.  But  aren't  you  hungry?  I'm  starved.&quot;  &quot;Well,  sort  of.&quot;  Walpole  looks  du-  biously  around  the  kitchen.  He  watches  Carrie  as  she  goes  over  to  the  mam-  moth  refrigerator  and  extracts  a  small  covered  saucepan  from  its  incredibly  crowded,  murky  interior.  &quot;She  likes  to  make  soup,&quot;  says  Carrie.  &quot;Lately  she's  been  on  some  43616e616461ern  kick.  [REDACTED],  I  guess.  This  is  white  beans  and  pork.  Just  made  yesterday,  so  it  ought  to  be  all  right.&quot;  The  soup,  which  Carriehas  heated  and  ladled  into  bowls,  is  good  but  too  spicy  for  Walpole's  ulcer;  the  next  day  he  will  feel  really  terrible.  Now  he  and  Carrie  whisper  to  each  other,  like  conspirators,  above  the  sound  of  Ardis's  heavy  breathing.  &quot;Does  she  do  this  often?&quot;  Walpole.  &quot;Pretty  often.  Well-like,  every  day.&quot;  'That's  not  good.&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cNO.\xe2\x80\x9d  Having  drunk  quite  a  bit  more  than  he  usually  does,  Walpole  feels  that  his  perceptions  are  enlarged.  Looking  at  Carrie,  he  has  a  sudden  and  certain  vision  of  her  future:  in  ten  or  so  years,  in  her  late  twenties,  early  thirties,  she  will  be  more  beautiful  than  even  Ardis  everwas.  She  will  be  an  exceptional  asks  beauty,  a  beautiful  woman,  whereas  Ardis  was  just  a  beautiful  girl.  Should  he  tell  Carrie  that?  He  decides  not  to;  she  wouldn't  believe  him,  although  he  is  absolutely  sure  of  his  perception.  Besides,  even  a  little  drunk  he  is  too  shy.  Instead,  in  an  inspired  burst,  he  says,  &quot;Listen,  she's  got  to  go  somewhere.  You  know,  dry  out.  There's  a  place  in  [REDACTED].  Senators'  wives-&quot;  Carrie's  bright  young  eyes  shine,  beautifully.  &quot;That  would  be  neat,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;You'd  be  O.K.  by  yourself  for  a  while?&quot;  &quot;I  really  would.  I'm  thinking  about  getting  a  dog-our  cat  just  disap-  peared.  And  there's  this  trip.  But  how  would  you  get  her  there?&quot;  &quot;Leave  that  to  me,&quot;  says  Walpole,  with  somewhat  dizzy  confidence.  Carrie  clears  the  table-without,  Walpole  notices,  washing  any  dishes.  CARRIE  goes  back  upstairs,  her  heart  high  and  light.  She  considers  calling  her  sister,  Linda,  saying  that  Walpole  Greene  is  taking  their  mother  to  [REDACTED].  But  Linda  would  say  something  nega-  tive,  unpleasant.  Instead,  she  puts  on  another  record,  and  hears  the  rich  pure  liquid  sound  of  Louis's  horn,  and  then  his  voice.  Beale  Street  Blues,  Muskrat  Ramble.  A  son  of  the  [REDACTED].  She  listens,  blows  more  joints.  DOWNSTAIRS,  seated  at  the  ta-  ble,  Walpole  is  talking  softly  and  persuasively,  he  hopes,  to  Ardis's  ear  (her  small  pink  ears  are  still  pretty,  he  has  noticed),  although  she  is  &quot;asleep.&quot;  &quot;'This  lovely  place  in  [REDACTED],&quot;  he  is  saying.  &quot;A  wonderful  place.  You'll  like  it.  You'll  rest,  and  eat  good  food,  and  you'll  feel  better  than  you've  felt  for  years.  You'll  see.  I  want  you  to  be  my  beautiful  girl  again-&quot;  Suddenly  aroused,  Ardis  raises  her  head  and  stares  at  Walpole,  &quot;I  am  a  beautiful  girl,&quot;  she  rasps  out,  furiously.  "