 b"THE  event  took  place  in  Mon-  tevideo,  in  1897.  Every  Saturday,  in  the  way  of  the  honest  poor  who  know  they  can-  not  invite  people  home  or  else  are  trying  to  escape  home,  a  group  of  young  men  occupied  the  same  side  table  at  the  Caf\xc3\xa9  del  Globo.  They  were  all  from  Mon-  tevideo,  and  they  had  found  it  hard  at  first  to  make  friends  with  Arredondo,  a  man  from  the  interior,  who  neither  confided  in  others  nor  encouraged  others  to  confide  in  him.  A  little  over  twenty  years  old,  he  was  lean  and  dark,  rather  short,  and  maybe  a  bit  clumsy.  His  would  have  been  an  almost  anonymous  face  had  his  eyes-at  one  and  the  same  time  sleepy  and  lively-  not  rescued  it.  He  worked  as  a  clerk  in  a  drygoods  store  on  Buenos  Aires  Street,  studying  law  in  his  spare  time.  When  the  others  condemned  the  war  that  ravaged  the  country  and  that,  ac-  cording  to  general  opinion,  the  presi-  dent  was  prolonging  for  unworthy  rea-  sons,  Arredondo  remained  silent.  He  also  remained  silent  when  they  made  fun  of  him  for  being  stingy.  In  June,  a  short  while  after  the  bat-  tle  of  Cerros  Blancos,  Arredondo  told  his  companions  that  they  would  not  be  seeing  him  for  a  time,  since  he  had  to  travel  to  Mercedes.  The  news  stirred  no  one.  Somebody  told  him  to  watch  out  for  the  gaucho  rabble  of  Aparicio  Saravia,  the  rebel  leader  of  the  Whites.  With  a  smile,  Arredondo  answered  that  he  was  not  afraid  of  the  Whites.  The  other  man,  who  was  a  White  himself,  said  nothing.  His  goodbye  to  Clara,  his  fianc\xc3\xa9e,  Arredondo  found  harder.  He  made  it  in  almost  the  same  words  he  had  used  with  his  friends,  warning  hef  not  to  expect  letters,  as  he  would  be  very  busy.  Clara,  who  was  not  in  the  habit  of  writing,  accepted  the  explanation  with-  out  a  protest.  The  two  were  very  much  in  love.  Arredondo  lived  on  the  outskirts  of  town.  He  was  looked  after  by  a  mulatto  woman  who  bore  the  same  surname  as  he,  since  her  forebears  had  been  slaves  of  his  family  many  years  earlier,  at  the  time  of  the  Great  War.  Clementina  was  completely  trustworthy,  and  he  ordered  her  to  tell  anyone  who  came  looking  for  him  that  he  was  away  in  the  country.  He  had  already  collected  his  last  pay  from  the  drygoods  store.  He  moved  into  a  back  room  of  his  house-one  that  opened  onto  the  third  of  its  three  patios.  It  was  a  pointless  measure,  but  it  helped  him  to  initiate  his  self-imposed  reclusion.  From  the  narrow  iron  bed,  in  which  he  was  be-  ginning  to  take  naps  again,  he  looked  with  a  touch  of  melancholy  at  abare  shelf.  He  had  sold  his  books-even  his  textbooks.  All  he  had  left  was  a  Bible  that  he  had  never  read  before  and  that  he  would  never  finish  reading.  He  leafed  through  it  page  by  page-  sometimes  out  of  interest,  sometimes  out  of  boredom-and  he  took  upon  himself  the  task  of  learning  by  heart  some  chapter  or  other  of  Exodus  and  the  end  of  Ecclesiastes.  He  made  no  effort  to  understand  what  he  read.  He  was  a  freethinker,  but  he  never  let  a  single  night  pass  without  saying  the  Lord's  Prayer,  which,  on  coming  to  Montevideo,  he  had  promised  his  moth-  er  he  would  do,  To  fail  in  this  filial  promise,  he  thought,  might  bring  him  bad  luck.  Arredondo  knew  that  his  goal  was  the  morning  of  the  twenty-fifth  of  August.  He  knew  the  exact  number  of  days  he  had  to  get  through.  Once  his  goal  was  attained,  time  would  cease,  or,  rather,  nothing  that  happened  after  that  would  matter.  He  awaited  the  date  like  someone  awaiting  a  boon  or  a  lib-  eration.  He  had  let  his  clock  run  down  soas  not  to  be  forever  looking  at  it,  but  every  night,  on  hearing  the  twelve  dark  strokes  of  midnight  on  a  town  clock,  he  tore  a  leaf  out  of  the  calendar  and  thought,  One  day  less.  In  the  beginning  he  worked  to  build  up  a  routine-brewing  mat\xc3\xa9,  smoking  Turkish  cigarettes  that  he  rolled  him-  self,  reading  and  rereading  a  set  num-  ber  of  pages,  trying  to  converse  with  Clementina  when  she  brought  him  his  meals  on  a  tray,  and,  before  putting  out  the  can-  dle,  repeating  and  embellish-  ing  the  speech  he  planned  to  give.  Talking  to  Clementina,  a  woman  well  along  in  years,  was  not  at  all  easy,  for  her  memory  had  remained  rooted  in  the  countryside  and  in  its  daily  life.  Ar-  redondo  also  laid  out  a  chessboard,  on  which  he  played  haphazard  games  that  never  came  to  a  conclusion.  He  was  missing  a  rook,  which  he  replaced  with  a  bullet  or  with  a  two-cent  coin.  To  fill  time,  he  cleaned  his  room  every  morning,  chasing  away  spiders  with  a  dustcloth  and  broom.  The  mulatto  woman  did  not  like  his  doing  these  menial  tasks,  which  were  her  domain  and  which,  in  addition,  he  was  not  especially  good  at.  He  would  have  preferred  waking  with  the  sun  already  high,  but  his  habit  of  getting  up  at  dawn  was  stronger  than  his  will,  He  missed  his  friends  a  good  deal  but,  without  feeling  bitter  about  it,  he  knew  that,  given  his  invincible  reserve,  they  were  not  missing  him.  One  evening,  one  of  them  came  to  ask  for  him  and  was  turned  away  from  the  door.  Clementina  did  not  know  the  caller,  and  Arredondo  never  learned  who  it  was.  He  had  been  an  avid  reader  of  newspapers,  and  now  he  found  it  hard  giving  up  these  museums  of  ephemeral  tidbits,  He  was  not  a  man  cut  out  for  deep  thinking  or  for  deliberating.  His  days  and  his  nights  were  all  the  same,  but  Sundays  weighed  most  on  him.  Toward  the  middle  of  July,  he  suspected  that  it  had  been  a  mistake  to  parcel  out  time,  which  in  some  way  bears  us  along.  Presently,  he  let  his  imagination  wander  over  the  length  and  breadth  of  Uruguay,  then  running  with  blood-over  the  rolling  fields  of  Santa  Irene,  where  he  had  flown  kites;  over  a  certain  pinto,  which  by  now  would  be  dead;  over  the  dust  raised  by  cattle  when  they  are  herded  by  drov-  ers;  over  the  weary  stagecoach  that  came  from  Fray  Bentos  once  a  month  with  its  hoard  of  trinkets;  over  the  bay  of  La  Agraciada,  where  the  Thirty-  Three,  the  country's  national  heroes,  had  disembarked;  over  the  Hervidero;  over  the  hill  ranges,  the  woods,  and  the  rivers;  over  the  Cerro,  where  he  had  climbed  up  to  the  lighthouse,  think-  ing  that  on  either  bank  of  the  Plate  there  was  no  other  hill  like  it.  From  this  hill  overlooking  the  bay  of  Monte-  video  his  thoughts  passed  on  to  the  hill  of  the  Uruguayan  national  emblem,  and  he  fell  asleep.  Every  night  the  breeze  off  thesea  brought  a  coolness  propitious  to  sleep.  He  was  never  wakeful.  He  loved  his  fianc\xc3\xa9e  completely,  but  it  had  been  said  that  a  man  should  not  think  about  women-above  all  when  they  are  not  there.  Life  in  the  country  had  accus-  tomed  him  to  chastity.  As  for  this  other  business,  he  tried  to  think  as  little  as  possible  about  the  man  he  hated.  The  din  of  the  rain  on  the  flat  roof  kept  him  company.  To  a  man  in  jail  or  to  a  blind  man,  time  flows  downstream,  as  if  along  an  easy  slope.  Halfway  through  his  reclu-  sion,  Arredondo  experienced  more  than  once  that  almost  timeless  time.  In  the  first  patio  there  was  a  cistern  with  a  frog  in  it.  It  never  occurred  to  Arre-  dondo  to  think  that  the  frog's  time,  which  borders  on  eternity,  was  what  he  himself  sought.  WHEN  the  date  was  not  far  off,  his  impatience  began  again.  One  night,  unable  to  bear  it  any  longer,  he  went  out  into  the  street.  Everything  " b"seemed  different,  larger.  Turning  a  corner,  he  saw  a  light  and  entered  a  saloon.  To  justify  his  presence,  he  ordered  a  bitter  rum.  Some  soldiers,  leaning  on  the  wooden  bar,  were  hold-  ing  forth.  &quot;You  know  it's  absolutely  forbidden  to  give  out  news  of  battles,&quot;  one  of  them  said.  &quot;Listen  to  what  happened  yesterday  evening.  This  will  amuse  you.  A  few  of  us  were  passing  by  La  Razon,  when  we  heard  a  voice  inside  defying  the  order.  Losing  no  time,  we  marched  in.  The  office  was  pitch-dark,  but  we  riddled  with  bullets  whoever  was  doing  the  talking.  We  wanted  to  drag  him  out  by  the  heels,  When  it  was  quiet,  we  searched  the  place  for  him,  but  what  we  found  was  one  of  those  machines  they  call  a  phonograph,  which  speaks  by  itself.&quot;  All  of  them  laughed.  &quot;What  do  you  think  ofa  dodge  like  that,  farmer?&quot;  the  soldier  said  to  Arredondo,  who  had  been  eavesdropping.  Arredondo  kept  silent.  The  uniformed  man  brought  his  face  close  to  Arredondo's  and  said,  &quot;Quick!  Let  me  hear  you  shout,  'Long  live  the  president  of  our  country-Juan  Idiarte  Borda!  &quot;  Arredondo  did  not  disobey,  and  amid  mocking  applause  he  managed  to  reach  the  door.  He  was  in  the  street  when  a  final  insult  was  hurled  at  him.  &quot;Fear's  no  fool,&quot;  he  heard.  &quot;It  kills  anger.&quot;  Arredondo  had  behaved  like  a  coward,  but  he  knew  he  was  not  one.  Slowlyhe  made  his  way  back  home.  On  the  twenty-fifth  of  August,  Avelino  Arredondo  woke  up  ata  little  after  nine.  He  thought  first  of  Clara  and  only  later  of  the  date.  &quot;Goodbye  to  waiting,&quot;  he  told  himself  then,  re-  lieved.  wroday\xe2\x80\x99s  the  day.\xe2\x80\x9d  He  shaved  without  hurrying,  and  in  the  mirror  he  found  his  everyday  face.  He  chose  a  red  necktie  and  put  on  his  best  clothes.  He  ate  a  late  lunch.  The  overcast  sky  threatened  drizzle.  He  had  always  imagined  the  sky  would  be  bright  and  blue.  A  touch  of  sadness  came  over  him  as  he  left  his  damp  room  for  the  last  time.  In  the  arched  entranceway  he  met  Clementina  and  gave  her  his  few  remaining  pesos.  On  the  sign  over  the  hardware  store  he  saw  the  colored  diamond  shapes,  mean-  ing  paint  was  sold  there,  and  he  re-  flected  that  for  over  two  months  he  had  not  given  them  a  thought.  He  walked  toward  Sarandi  Street.  It  was  a  holiday  and  very  few  people  were  about.  The  clock  had  not  struck  three  when  he  reached  the  Plaza  Matriz.  The  &quot;Te  Deum&quot;  was  already  over.  A  group  of  dignitariee-government  of-  ficials,  Army  officers,  and  prelates-  was  coming  down  the  slow  steps  of  the  church.  At  first  sight,  the  tall  hats-  some  still  in  hand-the  uniforms,  the  gold  braid,  the  arms,  and  the  tunics  created  the  illusion  that  the  group  was  large;  in  reality,  there  were  no  more  than  about  thirty  people.  Arredondo,  who  felt  no  fear,  was  filled  with  a  kind  of  respect.  He  asked  someone  which  was  the  president.  &quot;You  see  the  archbishop,  with  his  mitre  and  crosier-the  one  beside  him,&quot;  he  was  told.  Arredondo  drew  a  revolver  and  opened  fire.  Idiarte  Borda  took  one  or  two  steps,  fell  headlong,  and  said  dis-  tinctly,  &quot;I've  been  shot!&quot;  Arredondo  gave  himself  up  to  the  authorities.  Later,  he  was  to  declare,  &quot;I  am  a  [REDACTED],  a  Red,  and  Isay  it  with  pride.  I've  killed  the  president,  who  betrayed  and  tainted  our  party.  I  broke  with  my  friends  and  my  fianc\xc3\xa9e,  soas  not  to  implicate  them.  I  did  not  look  at  the  newspapers,  so  that  nobody  could  say  they  had  incited  me.  I  claim  this  act  of  justice  as  my  own.  Now-let  me  be  judged.&quot;  This  is  the  way  it  probably  hap-  pened,  although  in  a  more  involved  fashion;  this  is  the  way  I  imagine  it  happened. "