 b"PATRICK  BLATCHFORD  was  in  love  with  Rose.  This  had  become  a  fixed,  even  furious,  idea  with  him.  He  wanted  to  marry  her.  He  waited  for  her  after  classes,  moved  in  and  walked  beside  her,  so  that  anybody  she  was  talking  to  would  have  to  reckon  with  his  presence.  He  wouldn't  talk  when  friends  or  classmates  of  hers  were  around,  but  he  would  try  to  catch  Rose's  eye,so  that  he  could  indicate  by  a  cold,  incredulous  look  what  he  thought  of  their  conversation.  Rose  was  flattered  but  nervous.  A  friend  of  hers  once  mispronounced  &quot;Metternich&quot;  in  Patrick's  presence,  and  he  said  to  Rose  later,  &quot;How  can  you  be  friends  with  people  like  that?&quot;  Patrick  was  twenty-four  years  old,  a  graduate  student  who  planned  to  be  a  history  professor.  He  had  come  to  On-  tario  from  British  Columbia,  and  it  seemed  his  family  was  rich.  He  was  tall,  thin,  fair,  and  almost  good-looking.  He  had  a  long  pale-red  birthmark  drib-  bling  like  a  tear  down  his  temple  and  his  cheek.  He  said  it  was  fading  as  he  got  older;  by  the  time  he  was  forty  it  would  have  faded  away.  But  it  was  not  the  birthmark  that  cancelled  out  his  good  looks,  Rose  thought.  It  was  some-  thing  else;  maybe  the  shrillness  that  kept  breaking  through  his  voice,  or  his  startling  clumsiness,  which  knocked  dishes  off  tables  he  did  not  seem  even  to  have  touched,  or  his  tendency  to  blush.  There  was  a  sharp-edged,  jumpy,  dis-  concerting  quality  about  him  altogether.  The  first  time  Patrick  took  Rose  to  the  movies,  he  arrived  at  Dr.  Hen-  shawe's,  where  she  was  living,  half  an  hour  early.  He  wouldn't  knock;  he  knew  he  was  early.  He  sat  on  the  step  outside  the  door.  This  was  in  the  win-  ter;  it  was  dark  out,  but  there  was  a  little  coach  lamp  beside  the  door.  &quot;Oh,  Rose!  Come  and  look!&quot;  called  Dr.  Henshawe,  in  her  soft,  amused  voice,  and  they  looked  down  together  from  the  dark  window  of  the  study,  &quot;The  poor  young  man,&quot;  said  Dr.  Henshawe  tenderly.  Dr.  Hen-  shawe  was  in  her  seventies.  She  was  a  former  English  professor,  fastidious  and  lively.  She  had  a  lame  leg,  but  a  youth-  ful  and  charmingly  tilted  head,  with  white  braids  wound  around  it.  She  called  Patrick  &quot;poor&quot;  because  he  was  in  love,  and  perhaps  also  be-  cause  he  was  a  male,  doomed  to  push  and  blunder.  Even  from  where  they  were  standing,  he  looked  stubborn  and  pitiable,  determined  and  dependent,  sit-  ting  out  there  in  the  cold.  &quot;Guarding  the  door,&quot;  said  Dr.  Hen-  shawe.  &quot;Oh,  Rose!&quot;  Rose  didn't  like  her  saying  that.  She  didn't  like  her  laughing  at  Patrick.  She  didn't  like  Patrick  sitting  on  the  steps  that  way,  either.  He  was  asking  to  be  laughed  at.  He  was  the  most  vulner-  able  person  she  had  ever  known,  and  yet  he  was  full  of  cruel  judgments;  he  was  full  of  conceit.  Dr.  Henshawe  had  at  one  time  headed  the  local  school  board,  and  she  was  a  founding  member  of  the  Co-  operative  Commonwealth  Federation.  She  still  sat  on  committees,  and  she  wrote  letters  to  the  paper,  reviewed  books.  After  she  retired  from  the  uni-  versity,  she  began  taking  in  scholarship  students.  Her  house  was  small  and  per-  fect:  polished  floors;  glowing  rugs;  Chinese  vases,  bowls,  and  landscapes;  black  carved  screens-much  that  Rose  could  not  appreciate  at  the  time.  Rose  couldn't  really  tell  how  much  she  liked  being  at  Dr.  Henshawe's.  At  times  she  felt  impatient,  sitting  in  the  dining  room  with  a  linen  napkin  on  her  knee,  eating  from  fine  white  plates  on  blue  placemats,  with  the  canary  fluttering  in  its  cage  in  the  dining-room  window  andDr.  Henshawe  directing  the  table  conversation.  (There  was  not  a  great  deal  to  eat,  however,  and  Rose  had  taken  to  keeping  chocolate  bars  in  her  room.)  &quot;You  are  a  scholar,  Rose,&quot;  Dr.  Henshawe  would  say.  &quot;This  will  interest  you.&quot;'Then  she  would  read  aloud  from  the  paper  or,  more  likely,  from  The  Canadian  Forum  or  The  At-  lantic  Monthly.  She  talked  about  poli-  tics,  about  writers.  She  mentioned  Frank  Scott  and  Dorothy  Livesay.  She  said,  You  must  read  this,  Rose,  you  must  read  that-which  made  Rose  sullenly  determined  not  to.  How  could  she?  She  was  reading  Thomas  Mann.  She  was  reading  Tolstoy.  Dr.  Henshawe's  house  had  done  one  thing  for  Rose,  though.  It  had  de-  stroyed  the  naturalness,  the  taken-for-  granted  background,  of  home.  Rose  lived  with  her  aunt  and  uncle  in  Han-  ratty,  Ontario,  a  town  fifty  miles  to  the  north  of  [REDACTED],  where  the  university  was,  and  for  her  to  go  back  there  now  was  to  go  quite  literally  into  a  crude  light.  Her  aunt  and  uncle  had  installed  fluorescent  tubes  in  the  kitchen,  the  bath-  room,  the  hall.  In  the  front  room  they  had  a  floor  lamp  whose  shade  was  permanently  wrapped  in  wide  strips  of  cellophane.  What  Dr.  Henshawe's  house  and  her  aunt  and  uncle's  house  did  best,  in  Rose's  opinion,  was  dis-  credit  each  other.  In  Dr.  Henshawe's  charming  rooms  there  was  always  for  Rose  the  knowledge  of  home,  a  raw  indigestible  lump,  and  at  home  now  her  sense  of  order  elsewhere  exposed  such  embarrassing,  sad  poverty.  Poverty  was  not  just  wretchedness,  as  Dr.  Hen-  shawe  seemed  to  think;  it  was  not  just  deprivation.  It  meant  having  those  ugly  lights  and  being  proud  of  them.  It  meant  continual  talk  of  money  and  malicious  talk  about  new  things  peo-  ple  had  bought  and  whether  they  were  paid  for.  It  meant  pride  and  jealousy  flaring  over  something  like  the  new  pair  of  plastic  imitation-lace  curtains  that  Rose's  aunt  had  bought  for  the  front  room.  Of  course,  her  aunt  and  uncle  did  not  think  they  were  poor.  Poverty  was  what  they  had  raised  Rose  up  from  when  they  had  brought  her  to  live  with  them  at  the  age  of  ten.  There  was  no  denying  that  what  she  had  known  be-  fore  was  worse,  no  denying  that  when  she  came  to  them  she  was  much  in  favor  of  everything  their  house  con-  tained-the  linoleum  and  the  wrapped  lampshade  and  the  Disney  deer  with  a  lump  of  artificial  fern  growing  out  of  its  back  and  the  many  admonitions,  pious  and  cheerful  and  mildly  bawdy,  that  hung  on  the  walls:  Believe  on  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and  thou  shalt  be  saved.  This  is  my  kitchen  and  I  will  do  as  I  darned  please.  More  than  two  persons  in  this  bed  is  dangerous  and  unlawful.  What  would  Patrick  say  to  all  this?  Rose  could  not  imagine.  How  would  someone  offended  by  a  mispronuncia-  tion  of  &quot;Metternich&quot;  react  to  her  un-  cle's  stories?  Her  uncle  might  start  tell-  ing  about  the  Displaced  Person-the  [REDACTED],  he  called  him-who  worked  in  the  same  butcher  shop  as  he  did,  nervily  singing  French  songs  and  cher-  ishing  notions  of  getting  on  in  this  new  country.  &quot;Don't  you  get  any  ideas,&quot;  her  uncle  had  said  to  him.  &quot;Don't  you  think  youse  can  come  over  and  start  workin'  for  us  and  it's  goin'  to  end  up  us  working  for  youse.&quot;  Patrick  would  say  from  time  to  time  that  since  Rose's  home  was  only  fifty  miles  away,  he  ought  to  go  up  and  meet  her  family.  &quot;It's  only  my  aunt  and  uncle,&quot;  she  said  once.  " b"&quot;But  they're  your  guardians,  aren't  they?&quot;  &quot;I  guess  so.&quot;  &quot;'They  took  you  when  your  father  died,&quot;  Patrick  said.  Rose  did  not  really  know  if  her  father  was  dead.  She  rather  hoped  so.  &quot;They  must  be  your  legal  guardians.  Who  administers  what  your  father  left?  His  estate?&quot;  Estate.  Rose  could  think  of  no  reply.  OMETIMES  Dr.  Henshawe  would  say  to  Rose,  &quot;Well,  you  are  a  scholar;  you  are  not  interested  in  that.&quot;  Usually  she  was  speaking  of  some  activity  at  the  college-a  pep  rally,  a  football  game,  a  dance.  And  usually  she  was  right:  Rose  was  not  interested.  But  Rose  was  not  eager  to  admit  it;  she  did  not  seek  that  definition  of  her-  self.  On  the  stairway  wall  hung  gradua-  tion  photographs  of  all  the  other  girls,  scholarship  girls,  who  had  lived  with  Dr.  Henshawe.  Most  of  them  had  got  to  be  teachers,  then  mothers.  One  was  a  dietician,  two  were  librarians,  one  was  a  professor  of  English,  like  Dr.  Henshawe  herself.  Rose  did  not  like  to  look  at  them,  at  their  soft-focussed,  meekly  smiling  gratitude.  They  seemed  to  be  urging  on  her  some  deadly  secular  piety.  There  were  no  actresses  among  them,  no  brassy  magazine  journalists;  none  of  them  had  latched  on  to  the  sort  of  life  Rose  wanted  for  herself.  Rose  wanted  to  perform  in  public,  though  not  necessarily  on  a  stage.  She  wanted  to  be  known  and  envied,  to  be  slim  and  clever.  She  told  Dr.  Hen-  shawe  that  if  she  had  been  a  man  she  would  have  wanted  to  be  aforeign  correspondent.  &quot;''Then  you  must  be  one,&quot;  cried  Dr.  Henshawe  alarmingly.  &quot;The  future  will  be  wideopen  for  women.  You  must  concentrate  on  languages.  You  must  take  courses  in  political  science.  And  economics.  Perhaps  you  could  get  a  job  on  the  paper  forthe  summer.  I  have  friends  there.&quot;  Rose  was  frightened  at  the  idea  of  working  on  a  paper,  and  she  hated  the  introductory  economics  course;  she  had  been  looking  for  a  way  of  dropping  it.  It  was  dangerous  to  mention  things  to  Dr.  Henshawe.  Rose  had  got  to  live  with  Dr.  Hen-  shawe  by  accident.  Another  girl  had  been  picked  to  move  in,  but  she  came  down  with  t.b.  and  had  to  go  to  a  sanatorium.  Dr.  Henshawe  went  up  to  the  scholarship  office  on  the  second  day  of  registration  to  get  the  names  of  some  other  freshmen.  That  same  day,  Rose  was  supposed  to  go  to  a  meeting  of  the  new  scholarship  students.  The  bursar  was  to  give  a  talk,  telling  them  of  ways  to  earn  money  and  live  cheaply,  and  explaining  the  high  level  of  performance  that  would  be  expected  of  them.  As  Rose  was  climbing  the  stairs  to  the  second  floor  of  the  administration  building,  a  girl  came  up  beside  her  and  said,  &quot;Are  you  on  your  way  to  the  meeting,  too?&quot;  Rose  nodded,  and  they  walked  together,  telling  each  other  the  details  of  their  scholarships.  Rose  said  she  did  not  yet  have  a  place  to  live;  she  was  staying  at  the  Y.  She  did  not  really  have  enough  money  to  be  here  at  all.  She  had  a  scholarship  for  her  tuition  and  the  county  prize  to  buy  her  books  and  a  bursary  of  three  hundred  dollars  to  live  on.  That  was  all.  You'll  have  to  geta  job,&quot;  the  other  girl  said.  She  had  a  bigger  bursary,  be-  cause  she  was  in  science,  but  she  was  hoping  to  geta  job  in  the  cafeteria.  She  had  a  room  in  somebody's  basement.  She  said  it  wasn't  damp-or  not  very.  She  cooked  on  a  hot  plate.  &quot;How  much  does  the  room  cost?  How  much  does  a  hot  plate  cost?&quot;  asked  Rose.  The  other  girl  wore  her  hair  in  a  roll.  She  wore  a  cr\xc3\xa9pe  blouse,  shiny  from  ironing.  Her  breasts  were  large,  sagging,  and  matronly.  She  probably  " b"wore  a  dirty  pink  hooked-up-the-side  brassiere,  Rose  thought.  There  was  a  little  window  in  the  door  of  the  meeting  room.  They  could  look  through  at  the  other  scholarship  winners,  who  were  waiting.  It  seemed  to  Rose  that  she  saw  four  or  five  girls  of  the  same  physical  type  as  the  girl  who  was  with  her,  and  some  bright-  eyed,  self-satisfied,  babyish-looking  boys.  In  one  glance  through  the  little  win-  dow  she  detected-or  thought  she  de-  tected-traces  of  eczema,  stained  un-  derarms,  dandruff,  moldy  deposits  on  the  teeth,  and  crusty  flakesin  the  cor-  ners  of  the  eyes.  There  was  a  pall  over  all  of  them-a  true,  terrible  pall  of  eagerness  and  docility.  &quot;I  have  to  go  to  the  john,&quot;  Rose  said.  She  went  back  to  the  first  floor,  where  the  halls  were  crowded  with  or-  dinary  students  who  were  not  on  schol-  arships,  who  would  not  be  expected  to  get  A's  and  be  grateful  and  live  cheap-  ly.  Enviable  and  innocent,  they  milled  around  the  registration  tables  in  their  new  university  blazers,  their  frosh  beanies,  yelling  reminders  to  each  oth-  er,  confused  information,  nonsensical  insults.  Rose  walked  among  them  feel-  ing  bitterly  superior  and  despondent.  She  could  see  herself  working  in  the  cafeteria-her  figure,  which  was  broad  enough  already,  broadened  out  more  by  the  green  cotton  uniform,  her  hair  stringy  from  theheat.  A  woman  stopped  her.  &quot;Aren't  you  one  of  the  scholarship  girls?&quot;  she  said.  It  was  the  registrar's  secretary,  with  an  armload  of  papers.  Rose  thought  she  was  going  to  be  reprimanded  for  not  being  at  the  meeting.  She  was  going  to  say  she  felt  sick.  But  the  secretary  said,  &quot;Come  with  me,  now;  I've  got  some-  body  I  want  you  to  meet.&quot;  Dr.  Henshawe  was  being  a  charm-  ing  nuisance  in  the  office.  She  was  not  so  easily  suited.  She  liked  poor  girls,  bright  girls,  but  they  had  to  be  fair-  ly  good-looking  girls.  The  secretary  thought  Rose  might  just  do,  if  she  could  change  the  sour  expression  on  her  face.  &quot;If  you  put  a  smile  on,  I  think  this  could  be  your  lucky  day,&quot;  she  said,  and  Rose  smiled  obediently,  though  she  was  quite  bewildered.  So  Rose  was  taken  home  and  in-  stalled  in  the  house  with  the  Chinese  screens  and  vases,  and  told  she  was  a  scholar.  She  got  a  job  working  in  the  library  instead  of  in  the  cafeteria.  Dr.  Henshawe  was  a  friend  of  the  head  librarian.  Rose  worked  on  Saturday  afternoons,  putting  books  away  in  the  stacks.  In  the  fall  the  library  was  near-  ly  empty  on  Saturdays,  because  of  the  football  games.  The  narrow  windows  were  open  to  the  leafy  campus,  the  football  field,  the  dry  fall  country.  Distant  songs  and  shouts  came  drifting  in.  The  college  buildings  were  not  old  at  all,  but  they  were  built  to  look  old.  The  arts  building  had  a  tower,  and  the  library  had  casement  windows  which  might  have  been  designed  for  shooting  arrows  through.  The  buildings  and  the  books  in  the  library  were  what  pleased  Rose  most  about  the  place.  The  life  that  usually  filled  it,  and  that  was  now  drained  away,  concentrated  around  the  football  field,  seemed  to  her  inappropriate  and  distracting.  'The  cheers  and  songs  were  idiotic,  if  you  could  hear  the  words.  What  did  they  want  to  build  such  dig-  nified  buildings  for  if  they  were  going  to  sing  songs  like  that?  She  knew  enough  not  to  re-  veal  these  opinions,.  If  anybody  said  to  her,  &quot;It's  really  awful  you  have  to  work  and  nev-  er  get  to  any  of  the  games,&quot;  she  would  fer-  vently  agree.  [REDACTED]  Saturday  a  man  grabbed  her  bare  leg,  between  her  sock  and  her  skirt,  It  hap-  pened  in  the  agriculture  section,  down  at  the  bot-  tom  of  the  stacks.  She  had  seen  a  man  crouched  down  looking  at  a  low  shelf,  farther  along.  As  she  reached  up  to  push  a  book  into  place  he  passed  behind  her.  He  bent  and  grabbed  her  leg,  all  in  one  smooth,  startling  movement,  then  was  gone.  She  could  feel  for  quite  a  while  where  his  finger  had  dug  in.  It  didn't  seem  to  her  a  sexual  touch;  it  was  more  like  a  joke,  though  not  at  all  a  friendly  one.  She  heard  him  run  away,  or  felt  him  running;  the  metal  shelves  were  vibrating.  'Then  they  stopped.  There  was  no  sound  of  him.  She  walked  around  looking  between  the  stacks,  looking  in  the  carrels.  Sup-  pose  shedid  see  him,  bumped  into  him  around  a  corner,  what  did  she  intend  to  do?  She  did  not  know.  It  was  sim-  ply  necessary  to  look  for  him,  as  in  one  of  those  tense  childish  games  like  hide-  and-seek.  She  looked  down  at  the  sturdy  pinkish  calf  of  her  leg.  Amaz-  ing,  that  somebody  had  wanted  to  blotch  and  punish  it.  There  were  usually  a  few  graduate  students  working  in  the  carrels  even  on  Saturday  afternoons.  More  rarely,  a  professor.  But  every  carrel  she  looked  into  was  empty,  until  she  came  to  the  last  one.  She  poked  her  head  in  freely,  by  this  time  not  expecting  anybody.  Then  she  had  to  say  she  was  sorry,  for  there  was  a  young  man  with  a  book  on  his  lap,  books  on  the  floor,  papers  all  around  him.  She  asked  if  he  had  seen  anybody  run  past.  He  said  no.  She  told  him  what  had  happened,  not  because  she  was  frightened  or  disgusted,  as  he  seemed  afterward  to  think,  but  just  be-  cause  she  had  to  tell  somebody;  it  was  " b"so  odd.  She  was  not  at  all  prepared  for  his  response.  His  long  neck  and  face  turned  red,  the  flush  entirely  absorbing  a  birthmark  on  the  side  of  his  face.  He  was  thin  and  fair.  He  rose  up  without  any  thought  for  the  book  in  his  lap  or  the  paper  in  front  of  him.  The  book  thumped  on  the  floor.  A  great  sheaf  of  papers,  pushed  across  the  desk,  upset  his  ink  bottle.  &quot;How  vile,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Grab  it,&quot;  said  Rose,  leaning  toward  the  ink  bottle.  He  righted  it,  shoving  the  papers  onto  the  floor.  &quot;Did  he  hurt  you?&quot;  &quot;No,  not  [REDACTED];  &quot;Come  on  upstairs.  We'll  report  it.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  no.&quot;  &quot;He  can't  get  away  with  that.  He  shouldn't  be  allowed  to.&quot;  'There  isn't  anybody  to  report  it  to,&quot;  said  Rose.  &quot;The  librarian  goes  off  at  noon  on  Saturdays.&quot;  &quot;It's  disgusting,&quot;  he  said  in  a  high-  pitched,  excitable  voice,  and  Rose,  sor-  ry  now  that  she  had  told  him  any-  thing,  said  that  she  had  to  get  back  to  work.  &quot;Are  you  really  all  right?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;Oh,  yes,&quot;  Rose  said.  &quot;I'll  be  right  here.  Just  call  me  if  he  comes  back.&quot;  That  was  Patrick.  If  she  had  been  trying  to  make  him  fall  in  love  with  her,  there  was  no  better  way  she  could  have  chosen.  He  had  many  chivalric  notions,  she  came  to  realize,  which  he  pretended  to  mock  by  putting  certain  words  and  phrases  in  quotation  marks.  &quot;'The  fair  sex,&quot;  he  would  say,  and  &quot;damsel  in  distress.&quot;  'The  pretended  irony  did  not  fool  anybody.  Rose  continued  to  see  him  in  the  library  every  Saturday,  and  often  she  met  him  walking  across  the  campus  or  in  the  cafeteria.  He  made  a  point  of  greeting  her  with  courtesy  and  con-  cern,  saying  &quot;How  are  you?&quot;  in  a  way  that  suggested  she  might  have  suffered  further  attack,  or  might  still  be  recovering  from  the  first  one.  He  always  flushed  deeply  when  he  saw  her,  and  she  thought  this  was  because  the  memory  of  what  she  had  told  him  so  embarrassed  him.  Later,  she  found  out  it  was  because  he  was  in  love.  Somehow  he  discovered  her  name  and  where  she  lived.  He  phoned  her  at  Dr.  Henshawe's  house  and  asked  her  to  go  to  the  movies  withhim.  At  first,  when  he  said,  &quot;This  is  Patrick  Blatchford  speaking,&quot;  she  could  not  think  who  that  was,  but  after  a  mo-  ment  she  recognized  the  high,  rather  aggrieved  and  tremulous  voice.  She  said  she  would  go.  This  was  partly  be-  cause  Dr,  Henshawe  always  said  ap-  provingly  that  Rose  did  not  waste  her  time  going  out  with  boys.  Soon  after  they  started  going  out,  Rose  said  to  Patrick,  &quot;Wouldn't  it  be  funny  if  it  was  you?  If  it  was  you  who  grabbed  my  leg  that  day  in  the  li-  brary?&quot;  He  did  not  think  it  would  be  fun-  ny.  He  was  horrified  that  she  could  think  such  a  thing.  &quot;I'm  only  joking,&quot;  said  Rose  wist-  fully.  She  saw  it  would  not  do.  They  had  just  been  to  see  a  Hitchcock  mov-  ie,  and  so  she  said,  &quot;You  know,  if  Hitchcock  made  a  movie  about  some-  thing  like  that,  you  would  be  a  wild  insatiable  leg-grabber  with  a  split  per-  sonality;  the  other  half  of  you  would  be  a  timid  scholar.&quot;  He  didn't  like  that,  either.  &quot;Is  that  how  I  seem  to  you?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;A  timid  scholar?&quot;  It  seemed  to  her  he  con-  sciously  deepened  his  voice,  introduced  a  few  growling  notes,  drew  in  his  chin.  &quot;I  didn't  say  you  were  a  timid  scholar  any  more  than  aleg-grabber.  It's  not  you.  I  was  just  thinking  of  it  as  an  idea.&quot;  After  a  while  he  said,  &quot;I  suppose  I  don't  seem  very  manly.&quot;  Rose  was  frightened  and  irritated  by  such  exposure.  He  took  such  chances;  had  nothing  ever  taught  him  not  to  take  such  chances?  But  maybe  he  didn't.  He  knew  she  would  have  to  say  something  reassuring.  In  fact,  she  was  longing  not  to;  she  wanted  to  say,  judiciously,  &quot;Well,  no.  You  don't.&quot;  But  that  wouldn't  actually  be  true.  He  did  seem  masculine  to  her.  She " b"believed  that  only  a  man  could  take  those  chances,  could  be  so  careless  and  demanding.  WHEN  Patrick  asked  Rose  to  mar-  ry  him,  she  said,  &quot;We  come  from  two  different  worlds.&quot;  She  felt  like  a  character  in  a  play,  saying  that.  &quot;My  people  are  poor  people.  You  would  think  the  place  I  live  in  was  a  dump.&quot;  Now  it  was  she  who  was  being  dis-  honest,  pretending  to  throw  herself  on  his  mercy,  for  of  course  she  did  not  expect  him  to  say,  &quot;Oh,  well,  if  you  come  from  poor  people  and  live  in  a  dump,  then  I  will  have  to  revise  my  feelings  and  withdraw  my  offer.&quot;  &quot;But  I'm  glad,&quot;  said  Patrick.  &quot;I'm  glad  you're  poor.  You're  so  lovely.  You're  like  the  Beggar  Maid.&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cwrh  0?\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;'King  Cophetua  and  the  Beggar  Maid.&quot;  You  know,  the  painting.  Don't  you  know  that  painting?&quot;  Patrick  had  a  trick-no,  it  was  not  a  trick;  Patrick  had  no  tricks.  Patrick  had  a  way  of  expressing  surprise,  fairly  scornful  surprise,  when  people  did  not  know  something  he  knew,  and  similar  scorn,  similar  surprise,  that  they  ever  bothered  to  know  something  he  did  not.  His  arrogance  and  humility  were  both  so  exaggerated.  The  arrogance,  Rose  thought  later,  must  come  from  being  rich,  though  Patrick  was  never  arrogant  about  that  in  itself.  His  sisters,  when  she  met  them,  turned  out  to  be  the  same  way-disgusted  with  any-  body  who  did  not  know  about  horses  or  sailing,  and  just  as  disgusted  with  anybody  who  knew  about  music,  say,  or  politics.  Rose  had  no  idea  at  the  beginning  how  rich  Patrick  was.  Nobody  at  the  university  believed  that,  though;  ev-  eryone  thought  she  had  been  calculat-  ing  and  clever.  It  turned  out  that  other  girls  had  tried  for  Patrick  and  had  not  struck,  as  she  had,  the  neces-  sary  chord.  Older  girls,  sorority  girls  who  had  never  noticed  her  before  be-  gan  to  look  at  herwith  puzzlement  and  respect.  Even  Dr.  Henshawe,  when  she  saw  that  things  were  more  serious  than  she  had  supposed,  and  settled  Rose  down  for  a  talk  about  it,  assumed  that  Rose  had  her  eye  on  money.  &quot;It  is  no  small  triumph  to  at-  tract  the  attentions  of  the  heir  to  a  mercantile  empire,&quot;  said  Dr.  Hen-  shawe,  being  ironic  and  serious  at  the  same  time.  &quot;I  don't  despise  wealth.  Sometimes  I  wish  I  had  some  of  it.  I  am  sure  you  would  learn  to  put  it  to  good  uses.  But  what  about  your  am-  bitions,  Rose?  What  about  your  de-  gree?  Can  you  forget  all  that  so  soon?&quot;  &quot;Mercantile  empire&quot;  was  a  rather  grand  way  of  putting  it.  Patrick's  family  owned  a  chain  of  department  stores  in  British  Columbia.  All  Pat-  rick  had  said  to  Rose  was  that  his  fa-  ther  owned  some  stores.  When  she  said  &quot;two  different  worlds,&quot;  Rose  was  thinking  that  he  probably  lived  in  some  substantial  house  like  the  larger  houses  in  Dr.  Henshawe's  neighborhood.  She  was  thinking  of  merchants  at  home.  She  could  not  realize  what  a  coup  she  had  made,  because  people  at  home  would  have  considered  it  a  coup  for  her  if  she  had  snared  the  butcher's  son,  or  the  jewellers.  The  first  chance  she  had,  Rose  looked  up  the  painting  of  the  Beggar  Maid  in  an  art  book  in  the  library.  She  studied  the  maid,  meek  and  voluptu-  ous,  with  shy  white  feet.  She  showed  milky  surrender-helplessness  and  gratitude.  Was  that  how  Patrick  saw  her,  was  that  how  she  could  be?  To  be  like  that  she  would  need  the  king.  He  looked  sharp  and  swarthy-clever  and  barbaric,  even  in  his  trance  of  pas-  sion.  He  could  make  a  puddle  of  her  with  his  fierce  desire.  There  would  be  no  apologizing  with  him,  none  of  the  flinching,  the  lack  of  faith  that  seemed  to  be  revealed  in  all  her  transactions  with  Patrick.  She  could  not  turn  Patrick  down.  She  could  not  do  it.  It  was  not  the  amount  of  money  she  could  not  ignore  but  the  amount  of  love  he  offered.  She  believed  that  she  felt  sorry  for  him.  It  was  as  if  he  had  come  up  to  her  in  a  crowd  carrying  a  large,  simple,  daz-  zling  object-a  huge  egg,  say,  of  solid  silver,  something  of  doubtful  use  and  punishing  weight-and  was  offering  it  to  her,  in  fact  thrusting  it  at  her,  beg-  ging  her  to  take  some  of  the  weight  off  him.  If  she  thrust  it  back,  how  could  he  bear  it?  But  that  explanation  " b"left  out  something.  It  left  out  her  own  greed,  which  was  not  for  money  but  for  worship.  The  size,  the  weight,  the  shine  of  what  he  said  was  love  (and  she  did  not  doubt  him)  had  to  impress  her,  even  though  she  had  never  asked  for  it.  It  did  not  seem  likely  such  an  offering  would  come  her  way  again.  She  had  always  thought  that  this  would  happen,  that  somebody  would  look  at  her  and  love  her,  totally  and  helplessly.  At  the  same  time,  she  had  thought  that  nobody  would,  nobody  would  ever  want  her  at  all.  She  would  look  at  herself  in  the  glass  and  think:  wife,  sweetheart.  Those  mild,  lovely  words-how  could  they  apply  to  her?  It  was  what  she  had  dreamed  of.  It  was  not  what  she  wanted.  She  grew  very  tired,  irritable,  sleep-  less.  She  tried  to  think  admiringly  of  Patrick.  His  lean,  fair  face  was  really  very  handsome,  she  decided.  He  graded  papers;  he  presided  at  examinations;  he  was  working  on  his  thesis.  There  was  a  smell  of  pipe  tobacco  and  rough  wool  about  him,  which  she  liked.  He  was  twenty-four.  None  of  the  girls  she  knew  had  a  boyfriend  as  old  as  that.  Then,  one  day  when  they  were  walk-  ing  back  from  a  restaurant  downtown,  without  warning  she  remembered  him  saying,  &quot;I  suppose  I  don't  seem  very  manly.&quot;  She  remembered  another  time,  when  he  had  said,  &quot;Do  you  love  me?  Do  you  really  love  [REDACTED];  He  had  looked  at  her  in  a  scared  and  threatening  way.  Then,  when  she  said  yes,  he  said  how  lucky  he  was,  how  lucky  they  were,  he  bet  not  many  people  loved  each  other  as  they  did.  Now  she  shivered  with  irrita-  tion  and  misery.  She  was  sick  of  herself  as  much  as  of  him;  she  was  sick  of  the  picture  they  made  at  this  moment,  walking  across  a  snowy  downtown  park,  her  bare  hand  snuggled  in  his,  in  his  pocket.  Some  outrageous  and  cruel  things  were  shouted  inside  her.  But  she  could  not  take  her  hand  out  and  speak  the  truth.  Instead,  she  started  tickling  and  teasing  him.  Outside  Dr.  Henshawe's  back  door,  in  the  snow,  she  kissed  him,  tried  to  make  him  open  his  mouth.  She  did  scandalous  things  to  him.  When  he  kissed  her,  his  lips  were  so  soft,  his  tongue  was  shy;  instead  of  holding  her,  he  seemed  to  collapse  over  her.  She  could  not  find  the  force  in  him.  &quot;You're  lovely,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  have  lovely  skin.  Such  fair  eyebrows.  You're  so  delicate.&quot;  She  was  pleased  to  hear  that;  any-  body  would  be.  But  she  said  warning,  ly,  &quot;I'm  not  so  delicate.  I'm  really  quite  large.&quot;  &quot;You  don't  know  how  I  love  you.  There's  a  book  I  have  called  'The  White  Goddess.&quot;  Every  time  I  see  the  title  I  think  of  you,  because  your  skin  is  so  white.&quot;  Rose  wriggled  away  from  him.  She  bent  down  and  got  a  handful  of  snow  from  a  drift  by  the  steps  and  clapped  it  on  his  head.  &quot;My  white  god,&quot;  she  said.  He  shook  the  snow  out.  She  scooped  some  more  and  threw  it  at  him.  He  didn't  laugh;  he  was  surprised  and  alarmed.  She  brushed  the  snow  from  his  eyebrows  and  licked  it  off  his  ears.  She  was  laughing,  though  she  felt  des-  perate  rather  than  merry.  &quot;Dr.  Henshawe,&quot;  Patrick  hissed  at  her.  The  tender  poetic  voice,  which  he  used  for  rhapsodizing  about  her,  could  break  into  remonstrance,  exasperation,  " b"with  no  steps  at  all  between.  &quot;Dr.  Henshawe  will  hea  r  you!&quot;  &quot;Dr.  Henshawe  sa  ys  you  are  an  hono  r  able  young  man,&quot;  said  Rose  drea  mily.  &quot;I  thi  nk  she's  i  n  love  with  you.&quot;  She  blew  at  the  snow  in  his  hair.  &quot;Why  don't  you  go  i  n  and  d  eflower  her?  I  bet  she's  a  virgin.  That's  her  window.  Why  don'  t  you?  &quot;  She  rub  bed  his  hair,  then  sl  ipped  her  hand  insid  e  his  overcoat  and  rub  bed  th  e  front  of  his  pants.  &quot;You're  excited,&quot;  she  said  tri-  umph  antly  .  She  had  nev  er  done  or  said  such  a  thing  to  a  boy,  or  a  man,  befor  e.  &quot;Shut  up,&quot;  said  Pat  rick  .  Rose  raised  her  h  ead  and  in  a  loud  whisper  p  re-  tended  to  call  tow  ard  an  upstairs  win-  dow,  &quot;Dr.  Henshawe!  Come  and  see  what  Patrick's  got  f  or  you!&quot;  To  st  op  her,  to  keep  her  quiet,  P  atrick  had  to  st  ruggle  with  her.  He  g  ot  a  hand  over  her  mo  uth  and  with  the  other  hand  beat  her  away  from  his  zipper.  As  soon  as  he  began  to  fight  her  she  wa  s  relieved,  but  she  could  not  stop  yet;  she  had  to  resist.  She  was  still  afraid  she  might  really  be  able  to  g  et  the  better  of  him.  She  was  quite  strong.  But  he  was  stronger.  He  forced  her  to  her  knees,  and  then  pushed  her  face  down  in  a  snowdrift.  He  pulled  her  arms  back  and  rubbed  her  face  in  the  snow.  Then  he  let  her  go  &gt; and  almost  spoiled  it.  &quot;Are  you  all  right?&quot;&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Are  you?  I'm  sorry.  Rose?&quot;  She  staggered  up  and  shoved  her  snowy  face  into  his.  &quot;Kiss  me!  I  love  you!&quot;  &quot;Do  you.  Do  you?&quot;  Then  the  light  came  on,  flooding  them  and  the  trampled  snow,  and  Dr.  Henshawe  was  calling  over  their  heads.  &quot;Rose!  Rose!&quot;  She  called  in  a  pa-  tient,  encouraging  voice,  as  if  Rose  were  lost  in  a  fog  somewhere  and  needed  directing  home.  &quot;Do  you  love  him,  Rose?&quot;  said  Dr.  Henshawe  when  she  came  in.  &quot;Now,  do  you?&quot;  Her  voice  was  full  of  doubt  and  seriousness.  Rose  took  a  deep  breath  and  answered  as  if  filled  with  calm  emotion,  &quot;Yes,  I  do.&quot;  &quot;Well,  then,&quot;  said  Dr.  Henshawe.  PATRICK  shared  an  apartment  with  two  other  graduate  students.  He  lived  plainly,  did  not  own  a  car  or  be-  long  to  a  fraternity.  Ordinarily,  his  clothes  were  shabby.  His  friends  were  the  sons  of  teachers  and  ministers.  He  said  that  his  father  had  all  but  disowned  him  for  becoming  an  intellectual.  He  said  he  would  never  go  back  to  business.  Rose  and  Patrick  began  to  go  to  his  apartment  in  the  early  after-  noons,  when  both  the  other  students  were  out.  The  apartment  was  cold.  They  un-  dressed  quickly  and  got  into  Patrick's  bed.  They  clung  together,  shivering.  Rose  gig-  gled.  She  was  contin-  ually  playful.  When  they  began  to  make  love  in  earnest,  she  switched  at  once  to  being  loving,  eager,  passionate,.  The  first  few  times,  she  was  so  busy  that  she  hardly  noticed  that  she  didn't  feel  anything.  It  was  enough  for  her  that  they  were  doing  this.  They  were  doing  what  other  lovers  did.  The  fear  she  had  felt  that  they  would  not  man-  age  it,  that  there  was  G  a  great  humiliation  in  store,  made  her  triumphant;  she  never  thought  to  ask  for  pleas-  ure  as  well.  So  when  pleasure  presented  it-  self,  their  fifth  or  sixth  time  together,  she  was  thrown  out  of  gear,  her  counterfeit  passion  silenced.  Patrick  said,  &quot;What's  the  matter?&quot;  Nothing!&quot;  she  said,  making  herself  radiant  and  attentive  once  more.  But  the  new  developments  interfered,  and  she  had  finally  to  give  in  to  them,  more  or  less  disregarding  Patrick.  When  she  could  take  note  of  him  again,  she  overwhelmed  him  with  gratitude;  she  was  really  grateful  now,  and  she  want-  ed  to  be  forgiven-though  she  could  not  say  so-for  all  her  pretending  and  her  doubts.  Why  should  she  doubt  so  much,  she  thought,  lying  pleasurably  in  bed  while  Patrick  went  to  make  some  instant  coffee.  It  was  partly  Patrick's  doing;  his  chivalry  and  self-abasement,  along  with  his  scolding,  did  discourage  her.  But  it  was  partly  her  own  conviction  that  anyone  who  would  fall  in  love  with  her  must  be  hopelessly  lacking,  must  be  finally  revealed  as  a  fool.  So  she  took  note  of  whatever  was  foolish  about  Patrick,  even  though  she  consciously  looked  for  things  that  were  masterful,  admirable.  That  much  she  could  see;  perhaps  she  could  change  it.  At  this  mo-  ment,  in  his  bed,  in  his  room-surround-  ed  by  his  books  and  clothes,  his  shoe-  brushes,  his  typewriter,  some  tacked-  up  cartoons  torn  out  of  magazines-she  could  see  him  as  a  moderate,  likable,  in-  " b"dependent,  even  humorous  person.  If  only  we  could  be  ordinary,  she  was  thinking.  If  only,  when  he  came  back  in,  he  would  not  start  thanking  her  and  fondling  and  worshipping  her,  making  her  nervous.  She  didn't  like  worship,  really;  she  only  liked  the  idea  of  it.  On  the  other  hand,  she  didn't  like  it  when  he  started  to  correct  and  criti-  cize  her.  Patrick  loved  her,  but  what  did  he  love?  Not  her  Huron  County  accent,  which  he  was  trying  hard  to  change  (though  she  was  sometimes  mutinous  and  unreasonable,  declaring  in  the  face  of  all  evidence  that  she  did  not  have  an  accent,  and  that  every-  body  talked  the  way  she  did).  Not  her  jittery  sexual  boldness.  His  relief  at  her  virginity  matched  hers  at  his  compe-  tence.  She  could  make  him  flinch  at  her  vulgarity.  All  the  time,  moving  or  speaking,  she  was  damaging  herself  in  his  eyes;  yet  he  loved  her.  He  looked  right  through  her,  through  all  the  dis-  tractions  she  was  creating,  and  loved  some  obedient  image  that  Rose  herself  could  not  see.  And  he  had  hopes.  Her  accent  could  be  eliminated,  her  friends  could  be  discredited  and  removed,  her  vulgarity  could  be  discouraged.  What  about  all  the  rest  of  her?  Her  energy,  her  laziness,  her  vanity,  her  discontent,  her  ambitions.  She  concealed  all  that;  he  had  no  idea.  For  all  her  doubts,  she  did  not  want  him  to  fall  out  of  love  with  her.  THEY  made  two  trips.  First  they  went  to  British  Columbia,  on  the  train,  during  the  Easter  holidays.  His  parents  sent  Patrick  his  ticket.  He  paid  for  Rose's,  though  it  took  almost  all  the  money  he  had  in  the  bank.  He  told  his  parents  she  had  bought  it  herself.  He  did  not  want  them  to  know  she  could  not  afford  it.  Patrick's  parents  lived  on  Vancouver  [REDACTED],  near  Sidney.  In  front  of  the  house,  about  half  an  acre  of  clipped  green  lawn-green  so  early  in  the  year;  Rose  had  never  imagined  such  a  thing-sloped  down  to  astone  wall  and  a  narrow  pebbly  beach.  The  house  was  half  stone,  half  stucco-and-timber.  The  windows  of  the  living  room,  the  dining  room,  the  den  all  faced  the  sea,  and  because  of  the  strong  winds  that  some-  times  blew  onshore  they  were  made  of  thick  glass-plate  glass,  Rose  supposed,  like  the  windows  of  the  automobile  showroom  at  home.  The  seaward  wall  of  the  dining  room  was  all  windows,  curving  out  in  a  gentle  bay,  and  you  looked  through  the  thick  curved  glass  as  through  the  bottom  of  a  bottle.  The  sideboard,  too,  had  a  smooth  curving  belly,  and  seemed  as  big  as  a  boat.  Thickness  was  noticeable  everywhere-  in  towels  and  rugs  and  cutlery,  and  in  silences.  There  was  a  terrifying  amount  of  luxury  and  unease.  After  a  day  or  so  Rose  became  so  discouraged  that  her  wrists  and  ankles  felt  weak.  Picking  up  her  knife  and  fork  was  a  chore;  cut-  ting  and  chewing  the  roast  beef  was  almost  beyond  her;she  got  short  of  breath  climbing  the  stairs.  The  first  morning,  Patrick's  mother  had  taken  her  for  a  walk  in  the  grounds,  pointing  out  the  greenhouse,  the  cottage  where  &quot;the  couple&quot;  lived  (a  charming,  ivied,  shuttered  cottage,  big-  ger  than  Dr.  Henshawe's  house).  His  mother  showed  Rose  the  rose  garden,  the  kitchen  garden.  There  were  many  low  stone  walls.  &quot;Patrick  built  them,&quot;  said  his  mother.  She  explained  things  with  an  indifference  that  bordered  on  distaste.  &quot;He  built  all  these  walls.&quot;  Rose's  own  voice  came  out  full  of  false  assurance,  eager  and  inappropri-  ately  enthusiastic.  &quot;He  must  be  a  true  Scot,&quot;  she  said.  The  Blatchfords  had  come  from  Glasgow.  &quot;Weren't  the  best  stonemasons  from  [REDACTED]?  May-  be  he  had  stonemason  ancestors!&quot;  She  cringed  later  at  the  thought  of  these  efforts,  the  pretense  of  ease  and  gaiety,  as  cheap  and  imitative  as  her  clothes.  &quot;No,&quot;  said  Patrick's  mother.  &quot;No,  I  don't  think  they  were  stonemasons.&quot;  Something  like  fog  went  out  from  her:  affront,  disapproval,  dismay.  Rose  thought  that  perhaps  she  had  been  of-  fendedby  the  suggestion  that  her  hus-  band's  family  might  have  worked  with  their  hands.  When  she  got  to  know  her  better-or  had  observed  her  long-  er;  it  was  impossible  to  get  to  know  her-Rose  understood  that  in  conversation  Patrick's  mother  disliked  anything  fanci-  ful,  speculative,  abstract.  (She  also,  of  course,  disliked  Rose's  chatty  tone.)  Any  interest  be-  yond  a  factual  consideration  of  the  matter  at  hand-food,  weather,  invitations,  furniture,  servants-apparently  struck  her  as  sloppy,  ill-bred,  danger-  ous.  It  was  all  right  to  say  &quot;'This  is  a  warm  day&quot;  but  not  &quot;'This  day  reminds  me  of  when  we  used  to  ...&quot;  She  was  the  only  child  of  one  of  the  early  lumber  barons  of  Vancouver  Is-  land.  Shehad  been  born  in  a  now  vanished  northern  settlement.  But  whenever  Patrick  tried  to  get  her  to  talk  about  the  past,  whenever  he  asked  her  for  the  simplest  information-what  steamers  went  up  the  coast,  when  the  settlement  was  abandoned,  what  was  the  route  of  the  first  railway-she  would  say  irritably,  &quot;I  don't  know.  How  should  I  know  about  that?&quot;  This  irritation  was  the  strongest  note  that  ever  got  into  her  voice.  Neither  did  Patrick's  father  care  for  this  concern  about  the  past.  Many  things-most  things-about  Patrick  seemed  to  strike  him  as  bad  signs.  &quot;What  do  you  want  to  know  all  that  for?&quot;  he  shouted  down  the  table  one  evening  when  Patrick  asked  about  the  beginnings  of  the  store.  He  was  a  short,  square-shouldered  man,  red-  faced,  astonishingly  belligerent.  Patrick  looked  like  his  mother,  who  was  tall,  pale,  elegant  in  the  most  muted  way  possible-as  if  her  clothes,  her  makeup,  her  style  were  all  chosen  with  an  ideal  neutrality  in  mind.  &quot;Because  I  am  interested  in  his-  tory,&quot;  said  Patrick  pompously,  witha  giveaway  break  in  his  voice.  &quot;Because  .  ..I  ..  .am  .  .  .  interest-  ed  ...in  ...  history,&quot;  said  his  sister  Marion  in  immediate  parody,  break  and  all.  &quot;History.&quot;  The  sisters,  Joan  and  Marion,  were  younger  than  Patrick  but  older  than  Rose.  At  an  earlier  meal  they  had  questioned  her.  &quot;Do  you  ride?&quot;  they  asked.  \xe2\x80\x98tNO.\xe2\x80\x99,  &quot;Do  you  sail?&quot;  Play  tennis?  Play  golf?  Play  bad-  minton?  No.  No.No.  &quot;She  is  probably  an  intellectual  gen-  tus,  like  Patrick,&quot;  the  father  said.  And  Patrick,  to  Rose's  horror  and  em-  barrassment,  began  to  shout  at  the  table  in  general  an  account  of  Rose's  scholarships,  her  prizes,  her  su-  periority.  What  did  he  hope  for?  Did  he  really  think  this  bragging  would  convince  them?  Against  Patrick,  against  his  bragging,  his  so-called  intellectual  interests,  his  scorn  for  sports  and  television,  the  family  seemed  united.  But  this  alliance  was  only  temporary.  The  father's  dislike  of  his  daugh-  ters  seemed  minor  only  in  com-  parison  with  his  dislike  of  Pat-  rick.  He  railed  at  them,  too-  about  the  time  they  wasted  on  sports,  the  cost  of  their  horses  and  boats  and  equipment.  They  wrangled  with  each  other  on  obscure  questions  of  scores  and  damages.  All  complained  to  the  mother  about  the  food,  which  was  plentiful  and  delicious.  She  seldom  spoke  at  all.  Rose  had  never  imagined  so  much  true  malevolence  concentrat-  ed  in  one  place.  Her  uncle  was  a  big-  ot  and  a  grumbler  and  a  household  tyrant,  her  aunt  was  a  whiner;  but  compared  to  Patrick's  family  they  were  jovial  and  content.  &quot;Are  they  always  like  this?&quot;  she  " b"said  to  Patrick.  &quot;Is  it  me?  They  don't  like  me.&quot;  &quot;'They  don't  like  you  because  I  chose  you,&quot;  said  Patrick  with  some  satisfac-  tion.  &quot;'That's  the  way  they  are.&quot;  They  lay  on  the  stony  beach  after  dark,  in  their  raincoats,  and  hugged  and  kissed  uncomfortably.  Patrick  said,  &quot;You  see  why  I  need  you?  I  need  you  so  much!&quot;  Then  Rose  took  Patrick  home.  It  was  just  as  bad  as  she  had  thought  it  would  be.  Her  aunt  had  gone  to  great  trouble,  cooking  scalloped  potatoes,  turnips,  big  pork-and-beef  sausages.  Patrick  hated  coarse-textured  food,  and  made  no  pretense  of  eating  it.  The  ta-  ble  was  spread  with  a  plastic  cloth;  they  ate  under  the  fluorescent  light.  The  centerpiece  was  new  and  special  for  the  occasion-a  plastic  swan  with  slits  in  the  wings,  in  whichwere  stuck  fancily  folded  paper  napkins.  When  he  was  reminded  to  take  one,  Rose's  uncle  grunted  and  refused.  Otherwise  he  was  on  dismally  good  behavior.  Word  had  reached  this  house  of  Rose's  triumph.  It  came  through  people  they  had  to  re-  spect,  there  in  town;  if  it  had  come  just  from  outside,  they  would  not  have  believed  it.  Rose's  uncle's  boss,  the  butcher,  had  heard  it  from  his  wife,  whose  sister  was  married  to  a  dentist  who  had  a  son  at  the  university.  Rose  tried  to  start  some  conversa-  tion.  She  talked  brightly,  unnaturally,  rather  as  if  she  werean  interviewer  trying  to  draw  out  an  amusing  local  couple.  She  was  ashamed  on  more  lev-  els  than  she  could  count.  Ashamed  for  the  food  and  the  plastic  tablecloth  and  her  aunt  and  uncle;  ashamed  for  Pat-  rick,  the  gloomy  snob,  who  frowned  so  unkindly  when  her  aunt  passed  the  toothpick  holder;  ashamed  for  her-  self  and  the  way  she  sounded.  With  Patrick  there,  she  didn't  dare  slip  back  into  an  accent  closer  to  theirs.  That  accent  jarred  on  her  now,  anyway.  It  seemed  not  just  a  different  way  of  pronouncing  some  vowels  but  a  dif-  ferent  approach  to  talking.  Talking  was  shouting,  the  words  separate  and  emphasized  so  people  could  bombard  each  other  with  them.  And  the  things  people  said  were  like  lines  from  some  hackneyed  rural  comedy.  &quot;Wal,  if  a  feller  took  a  notion  to,&quot;  they  said.  They  said  that.  Seeing  them  through  Pat-  rick's  eyes,  hearing  them  through  his  ears,  she  had  to  be  disbelieving.  Rose  tried  to  get  them  totalk  about  local  history-some  things  she  thought  Patrick  might  be  interested  in.  Present-  ly  her  aunt  did  begin  to  talk,  though  the  conversation  took  another  direction  from  anything  Rose  had  intended.  &quot;'The  line  we  lived  on,&quot;  her  aunt  saidto  Patrick,  &quot;the  twelfth  line,  it  was  the  worst  in  creation  for  suicides.&quot;  &quot;A  line  is  a  township  road,&quot;  Rose  explained.  She  had  misgivings,  and  rightly,  for  then  Patrick  got  to  hear  about  a  man  who  had  cut  his  own  throat  from  ear  to  ear;  a  man  who  had  shot  himself  once  and  not  done  enough  damage,  so  he  loaded  up  and  fired  again  and  did  it  right;  a  man  who  had  hanged  himself  using  the  kind  of  chain  you  hitch  a  tractor  with,  so  it  was  a  wonder  his  head  was  not  torn  off.  Rose's  aunt  presented  all  this  to  Patrick  with  a  garrulous,  shy  polite-  ness.  These  were  her  credentials.  Hav-  ing  had  these  things  happen  nearby,  having  known  some  of  the  people  they  happened  to,  made  her  feel  worthy  of  attention.  But  she  was  not  self-impor-  tant;  she  wanted  to  share,  she  hoped  to  please.  &quot;You  were  right,&quot;  said  Patrick  afterward.  &quot;It  is  a  dump.  You  must  be  glad  to  escape.  Of  course,  they're  not  your  real  parents.&quot;  Rose  thought  of  her  real  parents  and  her  real  home-the  torn  dark  win-  dow  blinds,  the  poor  farm,  the  bad  luck,  the  dishpan  with  the  rag  plug  in  it.  Her  father  had  walked  to  town  one  day  and  then  walked  on,  or  got  on  a  freight-they  never  knew.  Her  mother  had  ulcerated  sores  on  her  legs,  and  went  to  hospital,  where  she  died.  Pat-  rick  must  be  imagining  for  her  some-  thing  more  genteel  than  her  aunt  and  uncle  could  provide,  something  like  the  homes  of  his  poor  friends:  a  few  books  about,  a  tea  tray,  mended  linen,  worn  good  taste;  proud,  tired,  educated  peo-  ple.  What  a  coward  he  was,  thought  Rose  angrily,  but  she  knew  that  she  herself  was  the  coward.  She  was  un-  able  to  think  of  her  early  childhood,  that  dark  time,  without  such  shame-  hating  it,  hating  herselffor  carrying  it  with  her.  When  her  aunt  and  uncle  took  her,  she  had  been  lousy.  Her  aunt  had  soakedher  head  in  kerosene.  Nev-  ertheless,  now  that  Rose  was  sure  of  getting  away,  a  layer  of  loyalty  and  protectiveness  was  hardening  around  every  memory  she  had  of  home-even  around  the  worst,  the  inadmissible  memories.  Not  long  after  they  got  back,  Pat-  rick  gave  Rose  a  diamond  ring  and  an-  nounced  that  he  was  giving  up  the  ac-ademic  life  for  her  sake.  He  would  start  learning  about  his  father's  business.  &quot;But  you  hate  that,&quot;  Rose  said.  &quot;I  can't  afford  to  take  that  attitude  when  I  have  a  wife  to  support.&quot;  It  seemed  that  Patrick's  desire  to  marry,  even  to  marry  Rose,  had  been  taken  by  his  father  as  a  sign  of  sanity.  Great  streaks  of  generosity  were  mixed  in  with  all  the  ill  will  in  that  family.  His  father  offered  a  job  in  one  of  the  stores,  offered  to  buy  them  a  house.  Patrick  was  as  incapable  of  turning  down  this  offer  as  Rose  was  of  turning  down  his.  He  did  not  know  yet  that  he  would  make  a  far  cleverer  businessman  than  scholar.  He  liked  the  idea  of  sacri-  ficing,  &quot;going  into  harness,&quot;  for  Rose.  &quot;Will  we  have  ahouse  like  your  parents'?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;Well,  maybe  not  at  first,  not  quite  so-&quot;  Patrick  said.  &quot;I  don't  want  a  house  like  that!&quot;  &quot;We'll  have  whatever  you  like.&quot;  Provided  it's  nota  dump,  thought  Rose.  Girls  she  hardly  knew  stopped  her  and  asked  to  see  her  ring,  admired  it  and  wished  her  happiness.  She  went  home  for  a  weekend,  and  met  the  den-  tist's  wife  on  the  main  street.  &quot;Oh,  Rose,  isn't  it  wonderful,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;When  are  you  coming  back  here  again?  'The  ladies  of  the  town  want  to  give  a  tea  for  you!&quot;  The  dentist's  wife  was  a  powerful  woman  who  had  never  spoken  to  Rose  in  her  life  before.  Paths  were  opening  now,  barriers  were  sof-  tening.  And  Rose-oh,  this  was  the  worst  of  it-instead  of  cutting  the  den-  tist's  wife,  Rose  was  blushing  and  skit-  tishly  flashing  her  diamond  and  saying  yes,  what  a  lovely  idea.  When  people  said  how  happy  she  must  be,  she  did  think  herself  happy.  It  was  as  simple  as  that;  she  dimpled  and  sparkled.  &quot;Where  will  you  live?&quot;  they  said,  and  Rose  said,  &quot;Oh,  in  British  Columbia.&quot;  That  added  more  magic  to  the  tale.  &quot;Is  it  really  beautiful  there?&quot;  they  said.  &quot;Is  it  never  winter?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  yes!&quot;  cried  Rose.  &quot;Oh,  no!&quot;  [REDACTED]  morning,  Rose  woke  early,  got  up  and  dressed,  and  let  her-  self  out  the  side  door.  It  was  too  early  for  the  buses  to  be  running.  She  walked  through  the  city  to  Patrick's  apartment.  She  walked  across  the  park.  Around  the  [REDACTED]  African  War  Me-  morial  a  pair  of  greyhounds  were  leap-  ing  and  playing  while  an  old  woman  stood  by,  holding  their  leashes.  The  sun  was  just  up,  shining  on  their  silver  hides.  The  grass  was  wet.  Daffodils  and  narcissus  grew  in  the  park  like  wild  flowers.  Patrick  came  to  the  door  in  his  gray-  " b"and-maroon  striped  pajamas,  tousled,  frowning  sleepily.  &quot;What's  the  mat-  ter?&quot;  he  asked.  She  couldn't  say  it.  He  pulled  her  into  the  apartment.  She  put  her  arms  around  him  and  hid  her  face  against  his  chest  and  in  a  stagy  way  said,  &quot;Please.  Please  let  me  not  marry  you.&quot;  &quot;Are  you  sick?&quot;  Patrick  said.  &quot;What's  the  matter?&quot;  &quot;Please  let  me  not  marry  you,&quot;  re-  peated  Rose  with  even  less  conviction.  &quot;You're  crazy.&quot;  She  didn't  blame  him  for  thinking  so.  Her  voice  sounded  unnatural,  wheedling,  and  silly.  As  soon  as  he  opened  the  door,  as  soon  as  she  faced  the  fact  of  him,  his  sleepy  eyes,  his  pajamas,  she  saw  that  what  she  had  come  to  do  was  enormous,  impossible.  &quot;Are  you  upset?&quot;  said  Patrick.  &quot;What's  happened?&quot;  &quot;Nothing.&quot;  &quot;How  did  you  get  here?&quot;  &quot;Walked.&quot;  She  had  been  fighting  back  a  need  to  go  to  the  bathroom.  It  seemed  that  if  she  went  to  the  bathroom  she  would  destroy  some  of  the  strength  of  her  case.  But  she  freed  herself;  she  said,  &quot;Wait  a  minute.&quot;  When  she  came  out  he  had  the  electric  kettle  going  and  was  measur-  ing  out  instant  coffee.  He  looked  de-  cent  and  bewildered,  &quot;I'm  not  really  awake,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Now,  sit  down.  First  of  all,  are  you  premenstrual?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  she  said.  But  she  realized  with  dismay  that  she  was,  and  that  he  might  be  able  to  figure  it  out,  because  a  month  ago  they  had  been  worried  she  might  be  pregnant.  &quot;Well,  if  you're  not  premenstrual  and  nothing's  happened  to  upset  you,  then  what  is  all  this  about?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  want  to  get  married,&quot;  said  Rose,  backing  away  from  the  cruelty  of  &quot;I  don't  want  to  marry  you.&quot;  &quot;When  did  you  come  to  this  deci-  sion?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;Long  ago,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  don't  know  .  .  .  This  morning.&quot;  They  were  talking  in  whispers.  Rose  looked  at  the  clock.  It  was  a  little  after  seven.  &quot;When  do  they  get  up?&quot;  she  said,  meaning  the  other  graduate  stu-  dents.  &quot;About  eight  o'clock.&quot;  &quot;Is  there  milk?&quot;  Rose  went  to  the  refrigerator.  &quot;Quiet  with  the  door,&quot;  Patrick  said,  too  late.  &quot;I'm  sorry,&quot;  said  Rose  in  a  strange,  silly  voice.  &quot;We  went  for  a  walk  last  night,&quot;  Patrick  said.  &quot;Everything  was  fine.  You  come  this  morning  and  tell  me  you  don't  want  to  get  married.  IW  hy  don't  you  want  to  get  married?&quot;  &quot;I  just  don't.  I  don't  want  to  be  married.&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  want  to  do?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know.&quot;  Patrick  kept  staring  at  her  sternly,  drinking  his  coffee.  &quot;Well,  I  know,&quot;  he  said  at  last.  &quot;What?&quot;  45  Ofe  fain  &quot;I  know  who's  been  talking  to  you.&quot;  &quot;Nobody  has  been  talking  to  me.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  no?  Well,  I  bet  Dr.  Henshawe  has.&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  Rose  said.  &quot;Some  people  don't  have  a  very  high  opinion  of  her,&quot;  Patrick  said.  &quot;They  think  she  has  an  influence  on  girls.  She  doesn't  like  the  girls  who  live  there  to  have  boyfriends.  You  told  me.&quot;  &quot;That's  not  it.&quot;  &quot;What  did  she  say  to  you,  Rose?&quot;  &quot;She  didn't  say  anything.&quot;  Rose  be-  gan  to  cry.  &quot;Are  you  sure?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  Patrick,  listen,  please.  I  can't  marry  you.  Please,  I  don't  know  why.  I  can't.  Please  believe  me,  I  can't,&quot;  babbled  Rose,  weeping.  Patrick  said,  &quot;Sh-h-h,  you'll  wake  them  up,&quot;  and  he  lifted  herout  of  her  chair  and  took  her  to  his  room,  where  she  sat  on  the  bed.  He  shut  the  door.  She  held  herself,  and  rocked  back  and  forth.  &quot;What  is  it,  Rose?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;What's  the  matter?  Are  you  sick?&quot;  &quot;It's  just  so  hard  to  tell  you.&quot;  &quot;'Tell  me  what?&quot;  &quot;What  I  just  did  tell  you.&quot;  &quot;I  mean,  have  you  found  out  you  have  t.b.  or  something?&quot;  (KN0.),  &quot;Is  there  something  in  your  family  you  haven't  told  [REDACTED];  said  Patrick  en-  couragingly.  &quot;Insanity?&quot;  &quot;No.&quot;  Rose  rocked  and  wept.  &quot;So  what  is  it?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  love  you,&quot;  said  Rose.  &quot;I  " b"don't  love  you.  I  don't  love  you.&quot;  She  fell  on  the  bed  and  put  her  head  in  t  he  pillow  .  &quot;I'm  s  o  sorry.  I'm  so  sorry.  I  can't  help  it.&quot;  After  a  few  moments  Patrick  said,  &quot;Well,  if  you  don't  love  me  you  don't  love  me.  I  can't  forc  e  you  to.&quot;  His  voice  sounded  high  and  spiteful,  though  the  word  s  were  reasonable.  &quot;  I  just  wonder  if  you  know  what  you  do  want,&quot;  he  continued.  &quot;I  don't  think  you  do.  I  don't  think  you  have  any  idea  what  you  want.  You're  just  in  a  state.  &quot;  &quot;I  don't  have  to  know  what  I  want  to  know  what  I  don't  want!&quot;  said  Rose  angrily,  turning  over.  Sh-h-h,  We  hav  e  to  stop.  They'll  be  waking  up  soon.&quot;  &quot;I  never  loved  you.  I  nev  er  wanted  to.  It  was  a  mistake.&quot;  &quot;All  right,  All  right.  Y  ou  made  your  point.&quot;  Patrick's  face  was  so  whi  te  the  birthmark  stood  out  like  a  cut.  &quot;Why  am  I  sup  posed  to  love  you?  Why  do  you  act  as  if  there  was  some  -  thi  ng  wrong  with  me  if  I  didn't?  You  despise  me.  You  despise  my  ba  ckground  and  you  think  you're  doing  me  such  a  great  favor-&quot;  &quot;I  fell  in  love  w  ith  you,&quot;  said  Pat-  rick.  &quot;I  do  n't  despise  you.  Oh,  Rose.  I  worship  you.&quot;  &quot;You're  a  sissy,&quot;  said  Rose  .  &quot;You're  a  prude.&quot;  She  jumped  up  with  great  pleasure  as  she  said  this.  She  felt  full  of  energy.  &quot;You  don't  even  know  how  to  make  love  right,&quot;  she  went  on.  &quot;I  alway  s  wanted  to  get  o  ut  of  th  is  fr  om  the  very  first.  I  fe  lt  sorry  for  you.  You  won't  look  whe  re  you're  going;  you're  always  knocking  things  over,  just  be-  cause  you  can't  be  bothered.  You  can't  be  bothered  noticing  anything,  you're  so  wrapped  up  in  yo  ursel  f.  And  you're  al-  ways  bragging.  You  don  't  even  know  how  to  brag  right,  if  you  want  to  im-  press  people;  you  do  it  in  s  uch  a  stupid  way,  all  they  do  is  laugh  at  you.&quot;  Patrick  sat  on  the  bed  and  looked  up  at  her,  his  face  open  to  whatever  she  would  say.  She  wanted  to  beat  and  beat  him  ,  to  say  worse  and  worse,  uglier  and  crueller  things.  She  took  a  bre  ath,  drew  in  air,  to  stop  the  things  she  felt  rising.  &quot;I  d  on't  want  to  se  e  you  ever,&quot;  she  said  viciously.  But  at  the  door  she  turned  and  sa  id  in  a  normal  and  re-  gret  ful  voice,  &quot;Goodby  e.&quot;  PATRICK  wrote  her  a  note:  &quot;I  don't  understand  what  happened  the  other  day  and  I  want  to  talk  to  you  about  it.  But  I  think  we  should  wait  for  two  weeks  and  not  see  or  talk  to  each  other,  and  find  out  how  we  feel  at  the  end  of  that  time.&quot;  Rose  had  forgotten  all  about  her  ring.  When  she  came  out  of  Patrick's  apartment  building  that  morning  she  was  still  wearing  it.  She  couldn't  go  back,  and  she  didn't  want  to  send  it  to  him  through  the  mail;  it  was  too  valu-  able.  She  continued  to  wear  it,  because  shedid  not  want  to  have  to  tell  Dr.  Henshawe  what  had  happened.  She  was  relieved  to  get  Patrick's  note.  She  thought  that  she  could  give  him  the  ring  when  they  met.  She  thought  about  what  Patrick  had  said  about  Dr.  Henshawe.  No  doubt  there  was  some  truth  in  it,  or  else  why  would  she  be  so  reluctant  to  let  Dr.  Henshawe  know  she  had  broken  her  engagement?  She  told  her  that  she  was  not  seeing  Patrick  while  she  stud-  ied  for  her  exams.  She  told  no  one  that  her  situation  had  changed.  She  did  not  like  to  give  up  being  envied.  She  tried  to  think  what  to  do  next.  She  could  not  stay  on  at  Dr.  Hen-  shawe's.  Shehad  to  escape  from  Pat-  rick;  she  had  to  escape  from  Dr.  Hen-  shawe,  too.  She  did  not  want  to  stay  on  at  the  university,  surrounded  by  girls  who  had  always  said  to  each  other  what  a  fluke  it  was,  her  getting  Pat-  rick.  She  would  have  to  get  a  job.  The  head  librarian  had  offered  her  a  job  for  the  summer,  but  that  was  perhaps  at  Dr.  Henshawe's  suggestion.  Once  Rose  moved  out,  the  offer  might  not  hold.  Instead  of  studying  for  her  exams,  Rose  knew,  she  ought  to  be  downtown,  applying  for  work  as  a  fil-  ing  clerk  at  the  insurance  offices,  ap-  plying  at  Bell  Telephone,  at  the  de-  partment  stores.  The  idea  terrified  her.  She  kept  on  studying.  That  was  the  one  thing  she  really  knew  how  to  do.  She  was  a  scholarship  student,  after  all.  The  next  Saturday  afternoon,  when  she  was  working  in  the  library,  she  saw  Patrick.  She  did  not  see  him  by  accident.  She  went  down  to  the  bottom  floor,  trying  not  to  make  any  noise  on  the  spiralling  metal  staircase.  There  was  a  place  in  the  stacks  where  she  could  stand,  almost  in  darkness,  and  see  into  his  carrel.  She  did  that.  She  couldn't  see  his  face,  but  she  saw  his  long  pink  neck  and  the  old  plaid  shirt  he  wore  on  Saturdays.  She  was  no  longer  irritated  by  him,  no  longer  frightened  by  him;  she  was  free.  She  could  look  at  him  as  she  would  look  at  anybody;  she  could  appreciate  him.  He  had  behaved  well.  He  had  not  tried  to  rouse  her  pity,  he  had  not  bullied  her,  he  had  not  molested  her  with  piti-  ful  phone  calls  and  letters.  He  had  not  come  and  sat  on  Dr.  Henshawe's  door-  step.  He  was  an  honorable  person,  and  df  he  would  never  know  how  sheac-  knowledged  that,  how  much  she  liked  him  for  it.  The  things  she  had  said  to  him  filled  her  with  shame.  And  they  were  not  even  true.  Not  all  of  them.  He  did  know  how  to  make  love.  She  was  so  moved,  so  gentled,  by  the  sight  of  him  that  she  wanted  to  give  him  something,  some  surprising  bounty;  she  wished  to  undo  all  his  unhappiness.  Then  she  had  a  compelling  picture  of  herself,  She  was  running  softly  into  his  carrel,  she  was  throwing  her  arms  around  him  from  behind,  she  was  giv-  ing  everything  back  to  him.  Would  he  take  it,  would  he  still  want  it?  She  saw  them  laughing  and  crying,  explaining,  forgiving.  This  was  a  violent  tempta-  tion  for  her;  it  was  barely  resistible.  She  had  an  impulse  to  hurl  herself,  whether  it  was  off  a  cliff  or  into  a  warm  bed  of  welcoming  grass  and  flowers  she  really  could  not  tell.  The  temptation  was  not  resistible,  after  all.  She  gave  into  it.  HEN  Rose  afterward  reviewed  and  talked  about  this  moment  in  her  life  (for,  like  most  people  now-  adays,  she  talked  freely  about  her  pri-  vate  decisions-about  her  life-to  friends  and  lovers  and  party  acquaint  ances  whom  she  might  never  see  again,  and  they  did  the  same),  she  said  com-  radely  compassion  had  overcome  her;  she  was  never  proof  against  a  bare,  bent  neck.  Then  she  went  further  into  it  and  said  greed,  greed.  She  had  run  to  him  and  clung  to  him  and  overcome  his  suspicions  and  kissed  and  cried  and  reinstated  herself  with  him  simply  be-  cause  she  did  not  know  how  to  do  with-  out  his  love  and  his  looking  after  her:  she  was  frightened  of  the  world;  she  had  not  been  able  to  think  out  any  other  plan  for  herself,  When  she  was  seeing  life  in  economic  terms,  or  was  talking  with  people  who  did,  she  said  that  only  middle-class  people  had  choices;  only  people  with  good  shoes  and  the  price  of  a  train  ticket  to  [REDACTED]  could  afford  to  run  away.  At  least  if  you  were  a  girl,  she  said,  and  in  my  day.  At  other  times  she  said  it  was  really  vanity.  It  was  vanity  pure  and  simple-  to  resurrect  him,  to  bring  him  back  his  happiness.  To  see  if  she  had  the  power  to  do  that.  She  could  not  resist  the  test  of  power.  She  explained  that  she  had  paid  for  it.  They  were  married  eleven  years,  they  had  two  daughters;  and  during  those  years  the  scenes  of  the  first  breakup  and  reconciliation  were  periodically  repeated.  She  said  over  again  all  the  things  she  had  said  the  first  time,  and  the  things  she  had  held  back,  and  many  other  things  that  oc-  " b"curred  to  her.  She  beat  her  head  against  the  bedpost,  she  smashed  a  gravy  boat  through  the  dining-room  window.  Then  she  was  so  weakened,  so  sick-  ened  by  what  she  had  done,  that  she  lay  in  bed,  shivering;  she  begged  and  begged  for  his  forgiveness.  Sometimes  she  would  attack  him,  and  he  would  beat  her.  The  next  morning  they  would  get  up  early  and  make  a  special  breakfast;  they  would  sit  eating  bacon  and  eggs  and  drinking  filtered  coffee,  worn  out,  bewildered,  treating  each  other  with  shamefaced  kindness.  What  do  you  think  triggers  the  reaction,  they  would  say.  Do  you  think  we  ought  to  take  a  holiday?  A  waste,  a  sham,  those  efforts,  as  it  turned  out,  but  they  worked  for  the  mo-  ment.  Rose  and  Patrick  ended  up  saying  that  they  supposed  most  married  people  went  through  this;  indeed,  they  seemed  to  know  mostly  people  who  did.  They  could  not  separate  until  enough  damage  had  been  done-until  nearly  mortal  damage  had  been  done-to  keep  them  apart.  And  until  Rose  had  a  job  and  was  making  her  own  money;  so  perhaps  there  was  a  very  simple  reason  after  all.  What  Rose  never  said  to  anybody  was  that  she  sometimes  thought  it  had  not  been  pity  or  greed  or  cowardice  or  vanity  but  something  quite  different,  like  a  vision  of  happiness.  In  view  of  everything  else  she  had  told,  she  could  not  tell  that.  She  didn't  mean  just  that  they  had  bearable,  ordinary  times  be-  tween  eruptions,  long  busy  times  of  wallpapering  and  vacationing  and  chil-  dren's  illnesses  and  meals  and  shop-  ping,  but  that  sometimes,  without  rea-  son  or  warning,  happiness-the  pos-  sibility  of  happiness-would  surprise  them.  It  was  as  if  they  were  in  differ-  ent  though  identical-seeming  skins,  as  if  there  existed  a  perfectly  kind  and  innocent  Rose  and  Patrick,  so  rarely  visible,  in  the  shadow  of  their  usual  selves.  Perhaps  it  was  this  Patrick  she  had  seen  when  she  was  free  of  him,  in-  visible  to  him,  looking  into  his  carrel.  She  should  have  left  him  there.  She  knew  that  was  how  she  had  seen  him,  because  it  happened  again.  She  was  in  the  [REDACTED]  airport,  in  the  mid-  dle  of  the  night.  This  was  about  nine  years  after  she  and  Patrick  were  di-  vorced,  Rose  had  become  well  known  by  this  time;  her  face  was  familiar  all  over  the  country.  She  had  a  television  program  on  which  she  interviewed  poli-  ticians,  actors,  writers,  and  many  ordi-  nary  people,  who  were  angry  about  something  the  government  or  the  po-  lice  or  a  company  or  a  union  had  done  to  them,.  Sometimes  she  talked  to  peo-  ple  who  had  seen  strange  sights  UFOs  or  sea  monsters-or  who  had  unusual  accomplishments  or  collections,  orkept  up  obsolete  customs.  She  was  travelling  alone.  No  one  was  meeting  her.  She  had  just  flown  in  from  Yellowknife.  She  was  tired  and  bedraggled.  She  saw  Patrick  standing  at  a  coffee  bar,  with  his  back  to  her.  He  wore  a  raincoat.  He  was  heavier  than  he  had  been,butshe  knew  him  at  once.  And  she  had  the  same  feeling  that  this  was  the  person  she  was  bound  to-that  bya  certain  magical  yet  pos-  sible  trick  they  could  find  and  trust  each  other,  and  that  to  begin  again  all  she  had  to  do  was  goup  and  touch  him  on  the  shoulder,  sur-  prise  him  with  his  happiness.  She  did  not,  of  course,  but  she  did  stop.  She  was  standing  still  when  he  turned  around,  heading  for  one  of  the  little  plastic  tables  and  curved  seats  grouped  in  front  of  the  coffee  bar.  All  his  skinniness  and  shabbiness,  his  prim  authoritarianism  were  gone;  he  had  smoothed  out,  filled  out  into  such  a  modish,  agreeable,  responsible,  slightly  complacent-looking  man.  His  birth,  mark  had  faded.  Rose  thought  how  haggard  and  strange  she  must  look,  in  her  rumpled  trenchcoat,  her  long,  graying  hair  fallen  forward  around  her  face,  old  mascara  smudged  under  her  eyes.  He  made  a  face  at  her.  It  was  a  truly  hateful,  savagely  warning  face-  infantile,  self-indulgent,  yet  calculated;  it  was  like  an  explosion  of  disgust  and  loathing.  It  was  hard  to  believe.  But  she  had  seen  it.  Sometimes  when  Rose  was  talking  to  someone  in  front  of  the  television  cam-  eras  she  would  sense  the  desire  in  them  to  make  a  face.  She  could  sense  it  in  all  sorts  of  people-in  skillful  politi-  cians  and  witty  liberal  bishops  and  hon-  ored  humanitarians,  in  housewives  who  had  witnessed  natural  disasters  and  in  workmen  who  had  performed  rescues  or  been  cheated  out  of  disability  pen-  sions.  They  were  longing  to  sabotage  themselves,  to  make  a  face  or  say  a  dirty  word.  Was  this  the  face  they  all  wanted  to  make-to  show  somebody,  to  show  everybody?  They  wouldn't  do  it,  though;  they  wouldn't  get  the  chance.  Special  circumstances  were  re-  quired:  a  lurid,  unreal  place;  the  middle  of  the  night;  a  staggering,  unhinging  weariness;  the  sudden,  hallucinatory  appearance  of  your  true  enemy. "