 b"THE  Colonel  stands  at  the  open  freezer,  peering  in.  His  wife  sits  at  the  kitchen  table,  pen  in  hand.  &quot;TIT'welve  lamb  chops,&quot;  the  Colonel  says.  His  wife  writes  this  down.  They  are  inventorying  the  contents  of  their  freezer.  The  Colonel  is  retired,  but  he  keeps  busy.  He  dusts  his  collections  and  organizes  household  tasks.  He  is  a  gour-  met  cook.  &quot;Eighteen  rainbow  trout,&quot;  the  Colo-  nel  says.  &quot;How  many?&quot;  his  wife  says.  She  loses  papers,  makes  mistakes,  cannot  read  her  own  writing.  The  Colonel  slams  the  freezer  door  and  goes  out-  side.  He  scrutinizes  his  swimming  pool  for  pollen,  insects,  leaves.  As  it  is  en-  closed  within  a  screened  patio,  its  sur-  face  is  quite  clean,  but  he  grabs  his  net  anyway  and  skims.  Earlier,  at  the  laundromat  where  he  does  the  laundry,  a  big  black  woman  wearing  a  tattered  yellow  T-shirt  was  doing  her  wash. When  she  turned  around,  he  saw  &quot;Yves  Saint  Laurent&quot;  printed  across  the  front  of  her  shirt.  A  bad  sign,  the  Colonel  thinks.  He  walks  over  to  the  electric  fence  surrounding  his  property  and  touches  it.  It  gives  him  a  shock,  but  only  in  this  way  can  he  be  absolutely  certain  that  the  current  is  on.  The  Colonel's  wife  hasn't  moved  from  the  kitchen  table.  She  has  nothing  to  do.  He  has  encroached  on  my  life,  she  thinks.  She  has  been  trying  to  find  some-  thing  that  will  occupy  her.  She  has  sent  foracourse.  Now  she  pulls  the  course  from  its  hiding  place  behind  the  re-  frigerator.  She  reads:  &quot;Do  not  under-  rate  your  abilities.  YOU  CAN  DO  ANY-  THING.  It  all  depends  on  your  self-  confidence  quotient.&quot;  She  has  already  taken  the  self-confidence-quotient  test.  Her  score  was  in  the  middle  range.  &quot;You  show  sufficient  flexibility  to  grow,&quot;  someone  at  the  school  wrote  in  the  margin  of  her  test.  The  course  is  for  a  career  in  testi-monials,  I  have  spent  my  life  consum-  ing,  she  thinks;  I  know  products.  She  enjoys  trying  things  out  and  mak-  ing  judgments.  She  likes  to  see  which  product  washes  brighter,  to  compare  flavors,  freshness,  crispness,  durability.  There  is  a  good  career  awaiting  me,  she  thinks.  Currently,  she  is  testing  perfumes.  The  school  sent  her  thirty  tiny  vials  of  perfume,  each  a  different  scent.  She  dabs  one  on  her  wrist  and  sniffs.  Then,  trying  to  be  spontaneous,  she  writes  down  in  a  notebook  whatever  adjectives  come  to  mind.  &quot;Sultry,&quot;  she  writes.  &quot;Tempting.  Seductive.  Totally  feminine.&quot;  The  Colonel  reappears.  She  drops  the  samples  into  her  pocket  and  closes  her  notebook.  &quot;What's  that  smell?&quot;  the  Colonel  asks.  &quot;Nothing,&quot;  the  Colonel's  wife  says.  With  a  sigh,  the  Colonel  starts  to  prepare  lunch.  A  chart  tells  him  what  meal  is  scheduled;  another  breaks  down  each  dish  into  its  components,  so  that  the  required  ingredients  can  be  stocked  in  advance  and  rapidly  assembled.  Spices  and  herbs  are  alphabetized;  canned  foods  are  stacked  according  to  sub-  ject  matter.  The  Colonel  stands  at  the  cutting  board,  chopping  and  mincing.  He  rolls  out  a  pastry  crust;  he  flutes  and  fills  Today  he  is  making  a  spinach  quiche.  While  they  eat,  they  discuss  a  masquerade  party  to  which  they  have  been  invited.  The  Colonel  wants  to  go  as  Death.  &quot;The  thing  is,  I  want  to  look  ordinary.  Not  strange  or  even   grotesque-just  ordinary.  But  then  how  will  anyone  know  what  I  am?&quot;  &quot;Death  should  look  pecul-  ar,&quot;  the  Colonel's  wife  says.  They  argue  during  lunch.  The  Colonel  is  glad  when  the  meal  is  over.  He  carries  each  dish  to  the  sink  separately  and  washes  it  by  hand.  The  dishes  are  collector's  items-  no  two  alike-picked  up  over  the  years  in  43616e616461al  cities.  For  most  of  his  military  ca-  reer,  the  Colonel  was  stationed  in  the  [REDACTED].  He  likes  to  think  of  his  years  there,  one  by  one,  and  recall  his  accomplish-  ments:  a  mountain  levelled,  a  lake  turned  into  a  prairie,  an  island  sliced  in  two.  He  was  with  the  Army  Corps  of  Engi-  neers.  His  men  gave  him  a  " b"book  of  poems  when  he  retired.  The  inscription  on  the  flyleaf  says,  &quot;To  a  can-  do  officer.&quot;  He  finishes  the  dishes,  goes  to  his  study,  and  closes  the  door.  He  turns  on  the  radio.  Phones  ring  and  a  man  says,  &quot;This  is  Donnie,  your  host,  welcoming  you  to  another  afternoon  of  'Tell  It  Like  It  Is.  This  is  your  show,  friends.  Keep  it  coming.  We  want  to  know  what's  on  your  mind.&quot;  A  phone  rings.  &quot;Hello,  you're  on  the  air,&quot;  Donnie  says.  &quot;''This  is  Sour  Balls,&quot;  a  man  says.  A  rule  of  the  show  is  that  callers  must  use  assumed  names.  &quot;Elimi-  nate  the  middleman  and  the  world  would  be  a  better  place.  That's  my  opinion  for  what  it's  worth.&quot;  An-  other  phone  rings.  &quot;This  is  Fried  Apples,  Donnie,&quot;  a  woman  says.  &quot;Wouldn't  it  be  nice  if  all  the  streets  had  inspirational  names.  'Think  how  you'd  feel  if  you  could  tell  people,  'I  live  on  Consideration  Drive.  &quot;  For  weeks,  a  debate  has  been  raging  on  the  show:  How  can  the  quality  of  life  be  improved?  On  this  topic,  the  Colonel  has  called  in  twice.  &quot;People  need  to  feel  appreciated,&quot;  he  said  the  first  time.  &quot;Don't  wait  until  someone  is  dead  to  say  something  nice,&quot;  he  said  the  second.  Now  he  phones  in  again.  &quot;''This  is  Okinawa,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Although  the  quality  of  life  continues  to  decline,  it  is  no  reason  to  go  under.  Keep  busy.  Ac-  quire  a  new  skill.  Make  yogurt.  Bake  your  own  bread.&quot;  The  Colonel  de-  scribes  his  technique  for  breadmaking.  &quot;It  is  guaranteed  to  dispel  gloom,&quot;  he  says.  I  doubt  it,  the  Colonel's  wife  thinks.  She  is  in  the  kitchen,  listening  on  the  other  radio.  She  would  like  to  goon  the  air  and  tell  people  how  unhappy  she  is,  but  she  is  too  proud.  The  Colonel  is  in  high  spirits  after  the  show.  As  soon  as  he  hung  up,  first  Marian's  Baby  and  then  Disgusted  called  the  program  to  thank  him  for  his  suggestions  and  vow  to  bake  bread.  When  I  say  something,  people  listen,  he  thinks.  Only  one  thing  worries  him:  the  possibility  that  someone  will  ask  him  for  consumer  advice.  When  it  comes  to  shopping,  the  Colo-  nel's  wife  is  ascendant.  The  Colonel  wants  everything  he  sees.  &quot;There  is  nothing  worse  than  an  impulse  buyer,&quot;  his  wife  always  says.  That  afternoon,  at  the  shopping  center,  he  hides  behind  a  rack  of  dresses,  studying  her  technique.  He  watches  the  way  she  handles  a  blouse,  holding  it  up  and  squinting  at  it,  and  the  way  she  puts  it  down  and  walks  away  from  the  counter  without  buying.  He  picks  up  a  boot  and  fondles  it.  His  wife,  at  another  counter  buying  slippers  forthe  grandchildren,  looks  over.  &quot;They're  tacky,&quot;  she  says  sharp-  ly.  The  Colonel  drops  the  boot  and  sidles  away,  blushing.  Far  from  tacky,  they  are  all  the  rage,  he  thinks  later.  He  is  dusting  his  screens,  his  lacquered  trays,  and  his  fans,  studying  each  object  for  tarnish  and  fray.  He  plumps  the  pillows  on  the  couch  and  glances  at  the  end  tables-  bamboo  fishing  baskets  that  he  var-  nished,  turned  upside  down,  and  topped  with  glass.  I  have  an  eye  for  making  things  from  other  things,  the  Colonel  thinks.  No  one  ever  called  these  tables  tacky.  A  large  painted  wooden  plate  has  broken  in  two.  He  picks  up  the  pieces  and  studies  the  break  suspiciously.  He  takes  them  to  his  study  and  opens  his  book  on  gluing.  He  closes  the  book  and  sits  down.  On  his  desk  is  a  list  of  chores,  I  am  a  can-do  officer,  he  tells  himself.  He  looks  at  the  list.  &quot;Re-  duce  beef  stock,&quot;  he  reads.  &quot;Sharpen  knives.&quot;  He  thinks  again  of  the  black  wom-  an  with  &quot;Yves  Saint  Laurent&quot;  on  the  front  of  her  T-shirt.  What  next,  he  wonders.  He  gets  out  his  West  Point  yearbook  and  turns  its  pages.  With  a  yellow  felt-tipped  pen,  he  has  Xd  out  the  pictures  of  the  dead,  He  tries  to  imagine  himself  lying  in  a  coffin.  Will  his  uniform  still  fit?  Perhaps  he  should  take  it  to  a  tailor.  Even  though  he  has  specified  the  mode  of  burial,  he  doesn't  trust  his  wife  to  carry  out  his  wishes.  He  pictures  his  dead  self  in  a  tattered  T-shirt  with  somebody  else's  name  on  the  front.  His  eyes  fill  with  tears.  HE  Colonel's  wife  is  in  the  kitch-  en,  wrapping  the  slippers  for  the  grandchildren.  She  wraps  each  pair  separately,  pinksa  fancy  edge  on  the  gift  paper,  and  ties  elaborate  bows.  She  decorates  the  brown-paper  wrapping  with  pieces  of  felt  cut  into  flowers,  arrows,  and  hearts  With  a  set  of  Magic  Markers,  she  writes  the  name  of  a  child  on  each  package  in  a  fancy  script,  every  letter  a  different  color.  The  slippers  are  going  to  [REDACTED],  where  their  daughter,  Sally  Ann,  lives.  Sally  Ann's  husband  works  at  Disney-  land,  repairing  the  replicas.  Currently,  he  is  tufting  the  great  apes.  The  Colo-  nel's  wife  wishes  that  Sally  Ann's  hus-  band  would  transfer  to  Disney  World,  in  [REDACTED].  In  her  most  recent  letter  to  Sally  Ann,  she  wrote,  &quot;Here  in  west  " b"[REDACTED],  the  children  get  bused  to  vari-  ous  cultural  centers.  Last  week,  they  went  to  the  state  park  and  watched  the  copperheads  shed  their  skins.&quot;  Sally  Ann  wrote  back,  &quot;We  toured  the  old  M-G-M  studio  for  six  hours.  The  chil-  dren  learned  a  lot.  Quiz  them  on  any  aspect  of  the  lives  of  the  early  stars  and  they  will  have  an  answer.&quot;  The  Colonel's  wife  finishes  wrap-  ping  the  slippers.  She  admires  her  handiwork.  Each  package  is  prettier  than  the  one  before.  But  as  she  stacks  them  on  the  hall  table  she  thinks,  They  won't  wear  them.  She  returns  to  the  kitchen,  swallows  six  iron  pills,  and  gets  out  her  perfume  testers.  &quot;Sultry,&quot;  she  writes,  &quot;Com-  pelling.  Glamorous.  Enticing.&quot;  She  wonders  if  her  son,  Dwight  D.,  is  all  right.  It  is  some  time  since  she  has  heard  from  him,  for  he  is  in  show  busi-  ness  and  moves  around  a  lot.  He  is  the  only  comedian  in  the  country  who  tum-  bles  down  a  flight  of  stairs  while  tell-  ing  a  joke.  He  began  working  on  the  act  as  a  child  in  Okinawa.  &quot;There's  enough  sorrow  in  the  movies  without  having  sorrow  in  life,&quot;  he  would  say,  even  then.  &quot;Was  my  timing  right?  Did  my  esses  sound  like  hisses?&quot;  He  was  determined  to  succeed.  Dwight  D.  looks  spectacular  on-  stage.  He  wears  a  white  suit,  white  shirt,  white  tie,  and  white  cape.  The  stairs  on  which  he  performs  are  white.  He  climbs  them  slowly,  pausing  on  each  step  as  if  to  say  something,  then  seem-  ing  to  change  his  mind.  In  this  way  he  creates  suspense.  At  the  top,  he  faces  the  audience  and  starts  to  tell  a  joke.  But  as  the  joke  builds  he  begins  to  totter.  Without  a  pause,  he  continues  to  tell  the  joke,  teetering,  swaying,  al-  most  falling  down  the  stairs.  Just  as  he  is  about  to  give  the  punch  line,  he  tum-  bles.  The  Colonel's  wife  worries  about  Dwight  D.  He  was  too  immature  for  first  grade,  she  thinks;  I  should  have  kept  him  outa  year.  The  Colonel,  rushing  into  make  supper,  is  startled  to  see  his  wife  sitting  in  the  dark.  It  is  past  the  time  when  he  usually  starts  cooking.  He  turns  on  the  light  and  glances  at  his  chart;  an  elab-  orate  crab  casserole  is  scheduled.  Flus-  tered,  he  starts  todice  an  onion.  His  wife  watches  him  for  signs  of  inefhi-  ciency.  They  talk  about  Dwight  D.  while  they  eat.  &quot;He's  a  hard  worker,&quot;  the  Colonel  says.  &quot;But  people  just  don't  seem  to  find  his  act  funny.&quot;  &quot;It  was  those  early  years  in  Oki-  nawa,&quot;  the  Colonel's  wife  says.  &quot;He  never  learned  to  interact.&quot;  &quot;He  had  plenty  of  opportunities,&quot;  the  Colonel  says.  &quot;He  was  fearful,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;Fearful  of  what?&quot;  the  Colonel  says.  He  watches  her  eat,  wondering  how  she  likes  the  crab  casserole.  He  is  too  proud  toask.  As  he  is  clearing,  he  says,  &quot;How  did  you  like  the  crab  casserole?&quot;  &quot;Crab?  Was  that  crab?&quot;  she  says.  THE  Colonel's  wife  completes  her  perfume-reaction  test  and  sends  it  in.  The  school  assesses  her  work  thus  far:  &quot;Your  credibility  factor  continues  weak.  Practice  sincerity.&quot;  She  is  dis-  appointed.  She  expected  the  perfume-  reaction  test  to  qualify  her  for  a  career.  Now  the  school  has  sent  another  test.  This  one  measures  creative  capacities.  She  sits  at  the  kitchen  table.  In  front  of  her  are  several  small  jars  containing  makeup.  A  chart  shows  her  where  to  highlight,  what  to  conceal.  She  works  on  her  face,  drawing  cir-  cles  on  her  cheeks  and  filling  them  in  with  rouge.  She  studies  the  effect  and  writes,  &quot;Looks  nice,  a  rejuvenating  quality  is  noticeable.&quot;  'These  comments  lack  conviction,  she  thinks.  She  doesn't  know  what  will  become  of  her  if  she  fails  this  test.  She  looks  in  the  mir-  ror  again  and  starts  to  write,  &quot;Looks  nice.&quot;  But  she  has  already  written  that.  She  creams  her  face  and  starts  over,  applying  large  quantities  of  foundation  and  rouge.  &quot;A  very  unusual  effect,&quot;  she  writes.  &quot;A  face  upon  another  face,  a  Mona  Lisa  smile.&quot;  She  puts  down  her  pen.  If  Sally  Ann  moved  to  west  [REDACTED],  the  Colonel's  wife  could  take  care  of  the  children  during  the  day,  while  Sally  Ann  completed  her  educa-  tion.  She  superimposes  circles  of  rouge  on  the  circles  of  rouge.  &quot;An  overall  effect  of  beauty,&quot;  she  writes.  I  look  like  a  clown,  she  thinks.  She  tosses  the  jars  of  makeup  intothe  garbage  disposal  and  listens  to  it  grind.  Then  she  moves  about  the  kitchen  slowly,  looking  for  stains,  a  spotof  grease,  crumbs.  She  turns  on  the  radio.  The  Colonel  is  saying,  &quot;Death  is  inexorable,  Gin-  ger  Marmalade.  Look  it  in  the  eye,  meet  it  head  on.  There  is  nothing  to  be  afraid  of.  Ike  used  to  say,  Guard  your  rear  and  leave  the  worrying  to  others.  That's  been  my  credo  all  my  life.&quot;  The  Colonel  hangs  up,  and  his  wife  dials  the  station.  Donnie  says,  &quot;Hello,  you're  on  the  air.&quot;  &quot;'This  is  Okinawa's  Wife.  If  he's  so  brave,  why  does  he  triple-lock  the  doors?  There  areknives  everywhere.  A  central  alarm  system  is  on  at  all  times,  wired  to  our  local  precinct.  If  he's  so  brave,  why  is  he  always  running  out  to  the  electric  fence  to  make  sure  the  current  is  on?&quot;  She  hangs  up  and  waits  for  the  Colo-  nel.  "