 b"May  12th:  AM  having  a  difficult  time  with  Ma.  Today  she  says  that  she  wants  to  leave  the  Home  before  the  end  of  the  week.  I  tell  her  what  I  heard  about  Mrs.  Brier,  who  is  eighty-one  and  still  lives  in  Ma's  old  apartment  building,  on  Undercliff  Avenue,  in  the  west  [REDACTED].  Mrs.  Brier  woke  up  one  night  and  found  a  thief  standing  at  the  foot  of  her  bed.  When  she  sat  up,  he  ran  farther  into  the  dark  apartment.  Mrs.  Brier  screamed  and  then  jumped  out  onto  the  fire  escape,  crying  for  help.  Ma  tells  me  that  yesterday  the  Burns  guards  puther  on  the  seventh  floor  north,  in  the  room  with  the  vege-  table  people,  and  then  took  ten  dollars  to  bring  her  back  out,  even  though  Mr.  Seligman,  the  director  of  the  Home,  has  put  &quot;No  Tipping&quot;  signs  all  over.  I  ask  Ma  what  the  vegetable  people  are  like,  She  shudders  and  says,  &quot;Dread-  ful,  Leon.  The  end  of  the  line.&quot;  Ma  says  the  Home  is  full  of  &quot;llegals&quot;-stray  old  people  who  sneak  in  off  the  streets,  You  can't  tell  who  is  who,  she  says,  because  the  illegals  walk  around  smiling  and  saying  &quot;Good  day&quot;  and  &quot;How  do  you  feel?&quot;  At  dinner  last  night,  she  says,  there  was  trouble:  six  people  at  a  table  that  seats  only  three.  &quot;Who  to  feed?&quot;  says  Ma.  &quot;Some  of  the  illegals  go  in  and  out  of  the  kitchen,  carrying  trays  and  imitating  the  wait-  ers.  'Have  a  little  extra,  they  urge.  Seligman  is  half  crazy  stamping  papers.  The  Burns  guards  arrest  the  ones  who  are  definitely  outsiders.  They  drive  them  away  by  car  and  deposit  them  near  Webster  Avenue.  Seligman's  son,  Meyer,  came  up  for  a  food  check,  to  getus  to  eat  less.  He  says  bread  crusts  must  be  eaten  before  we  touch  anything  else.&quot;  We  walk  outside  into  a  sunny  day.  &quot;The  old  are  disappearing  from  hunger,&quot;  Ma  says.  &quot;You're  ninety-two,  Ma,  and  you'll  live  forever,&quot;  I  tell  her.  We  run  into  Mr.  Kess-  ler,  a  tall  octogenarian,  who  is  feeding  the  birds  in  the  little  park  behind  the  Home.  He  stands  there  covered  with  sparrows.  His  coat  pockets  are  full  of  bread  crumbs,  and  he  offers  them  to  the  birds  a  pinch  at  a  time.  Ma  introduces  us.  He  calls  her  Drezzle,  her  nickname  from  the  Old  Country.  &quot;Mr.  Kessler,&quot;  she  says,  &quot;graces  our  table  with  anecdotes  and  stories,  enter-  taining  us  as  we  eat.&quot;  He  returns  the  compliment.  &quot;Your  mother  possesses  an  unusual  amount  of  charm.  Her  manner  is  vivacious,  and  her  whole  personality  belongs  to  a  woman  of  gentle  birth  and  good  breed-  ing.&quot;  Ma  smiles  as  we  move  on.  &quot;Mr.  Kessler,&quot;  she  says,  &quot;reminds  me  of  your  father.&quot;  May  19th:  WHEN  I  arrive  at  the  Home  to-  day,  a  Burns  guard  tells  me  that  Ma  left  her  room  yesterday  morning  and  took  a  taxi  to  her  old  apartment  on  Undercliff  Avenue.  She  tried  to  open  the  door  with  her  key,  which  no  longer  fit,  since  the  lock  was  changed  three  years  ago.  Ma  was  befuddled  when  she  found  a  family  living  in  the  apartment.  A  squad  car  delivered  her  back  to  the  Home,  and  her  social  worker  took  her  to  the  infirmary,  where  she  was  given  sedation.  I  tell  Ma  that  the  streets  in  her  old  neighborhood  in  the  west  [REDACTED]  are  deserted,  that  people  won't  go  out  in  the  middle  of  the  day  forfear  of  be-  ing  robbed,  maimed,  or  even  mur-  dered.  But  Ma  misses  her  friends  of  many  years  and  her  old  life.  She  is  con-  vinced  that  she  has  come  to  the  Home  to  die.  &quot;One  limps,  another  shakes  and  coughs,&quot;  she  says,  &quot;this  one  is  blind,  and  that  one  can't  swallow.&quot;  At  noon,  I  take  Ma  out  to  eat  at  the  Pancake.  The  waitress,  Susan,  tickles  her  under  the  chin  and  calls  her  But-tercup.  Ma  does  have  a  sunny  look,  like  the  late  Maurice  Chevalier:  a  fixed  smile  and  sky-blue  eyes.  Ma  tells  me  that  there  was  an  an-  nouncement  over  the  loudspeaker  sys-  tem  and  from  now  on  itis  forbidden  to  call  the  Home  the  Old  Age  Home.  Everybody  has  to  call  it  the  Citizens'  Rest  Haven,  she  says.  This  worries  her.  She  whispers  to  me  that  the  streets  are  full  of  &quot;outsiders&quot;-homeless  old  peo-  ple  loaded  high  with  bedding,  waiting  to  sneak  into  the  Home.  The  doctors  here  are  in  collusion  with  the  Depart-  ment  of  Health,  she  says,  and  for  a  fee  they  countersign  medical  certificates  for  the  outsiders,  to  insure  quick  entry  into  the  Home.  &quot;'There  are  new  arrivals  from  Brownsville,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;Everybody  is  getting  moved  up  a  floor.  The  second  to  the  third,  and  the  third  to  the  fourth,  and  so  on.  A  lightning  count  was  taken  Monday.  Still  there  is  the  same  four  hundred.  Leon,  what  happened  to  a  whole  floor  of  people?&quot;  &quot;They've  joined  the  cavalry,  Ma.&quot;  May  28th:  AF  TER  the  Friday-night  service  in  the  chapel,  Rabbi  Bernstein  speaks:  &quot;It's  the  popular  thing  today  to  consider  the  old  as  'throwaways.'  Those  of  us  in  sanctuary  here  in  the  Home,  off  the  remorseless  streets,  thank  God  for  His  goodness.  Our  brothers  and  sisters  on  the  outside  did  not  ask  to  be  homeless.  They  are  and  will  remain  part  of  our  family,  and  we  will  not  rest  until  they  are  housed  and  taken  care  of.  Amen.&quot;  &quot;In  Europe,&quot;  Ma  tells  me  after-  ward,  outside  the  chapel,  &quot;there  was  a  great  family  connectedness.  A  parent  could  become  a  child  in  all  innocence,  and  a  child  could  become  a  parent.  People  came  together  by  their  last  name.&quot;  I  embrace  Ma.  Her  new  roommate,  Mrs.  Landau,  comes  forward,  puckering  her  lips  for  a  kiss.  I  have  great  hope  that  she  and  Ma  will  be  compatible.  Mrs.  Landau  turns  to  Ma  and  says,  &quot;Drezzle,  tomorrow  they  are  going  to  evacuate  the  Home.&quot;  Ma  overwhelms  her  with  questions:  &quot;Where  to?  On  foot?  'The  sick  as  well?  Those  who  cannot  walk?&quot;  I  take  Ma  by  the  arm,  and  we  walk  to  the  cafeteria,  in  the  basement.  There  she  introduces  me  to  two  new  residents,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Stein,  who  smile  at  Ma  and  " b"ask,  &quot;How  do  you  feel?&quot;  Ma  tells  me  that  they  were  outsiders  who  brought  letters  of  recommendation  from  a  [REDACTED]  congressman.  &quot;Now,&quot;  she  says,  &quot;dozens  of  outsiders  are  coming  in  their  underwear  with  recommenda-  tions  from  God  knows  who.&quot;  When  Ma  and  I  go  up  to  the  lobby,  Mr.  Kessler  is  there,  surrounded  by  a  group  of  people.  He  breaks  away  to  greet  us.  He  is  dressed  in  a  sports  jacket,  a  plaid  shirt,  and  a  bow  tie.  &quot;It's  the  new  style,&quot;  he  says,  seizing  both  Ma's  hands  and  shaking  them  heartily.  &quot;Drezzle,  you  don't  feel  dis-  posed  to  takea  brisk  walk  over  to  Fordham  Road?  I  know  a  steakhouse  where  we  can  have  a  red-hot  chop  for  dinner  and  a  glass  of  good  wine.&quot;  Ma  excuses  herself  graciously,  say-  ing,  &quot;Another  time,  maybe.&quot;  June  19th:  &amp;  HE  Burns  guards,&quot;  Ma  tells  me,  &quot;bored  holes  in  the  back  wall.  They  pass  large  amounts  of  food  through  the  holes  to  Seligman's  son,  Meyer,  who  comes  in  a  pickup  truck.  When  they  catch  sight  of  Seligman  him-  self,  they  shout,  a  warning,  and  Meyer  drives  off.  Later,  he  sells  the  food  back  to  Seligman  at  twice  the  price.&quot;  Ma  leans  forward  and  lowers  her  voice.  &quot;The  illegals  are  demanding  clothing  from  everybody.  At  the  least  sign  of  opposition,  theythreaten  to  go  to  Seligman.  Frightening,  if  true,  since  Seligman  couldturn  on  the  legitimates  and  throw  us  out  of  the  Home.  Some  of  the  illegals  also  had  their  names  changed  for  a  price.  After  three  or  four  changes,  they  got  their  original  names  back  again.&quot;  We  are  walking  in  the  corridor,  and  Ma  looks  around  to  make  sure  we  are  not  overheard.  She  tells  me  that  one  of  the  waiters  beat  Mr.  Resnick  over  the  head  with  a  tray  at  two  o'clock  in  the  morning,  shouting,  &quot;You  have  diamonds!  Where  are  they  hidden?&quot;  When  we  get  back  to  the  room,  Mrs.  Landau,  Ma's  roommate,  is  watching  &quot;All  in  the  Family.&quot;  She  turns  to  tell  us  about  a  rumor  that  the  Home  is  serving  horsemeat  for  din-  ner.  &quot;'The  mood  here  is  very  bad,&quot;  says  Ma.  &quot;Seligman  grows  restless.  The  so- cial  workers  say  he  is  going  to  sell  the  Home  to  the  government  for  a  highway  project.&quot;  a  went  to  the  beauty  parlor  this  morning.  She  had  a  mudpack  on  her  face  and  a  henna  rinse,  and  she  looks  very  strange  with  orange  hair.  We  run  into  Mr.  Kessler,  and  he  does  not  seem  to  notice  any  differ-  ence  in  her  appearance.  On  leaving,  he  shakes  hands  with  her  and  says,  &quot;Pray  you,  Ma-  dame,  remain  as  you  are.&quot;  JUNE  23RD:  HE  weather  is  sunny,  and  the  elderly  from  the  Home  are  out  in  front,  pack-  ing  the  sidewalk  be-  hind  the  gates,  opening  and  closing  their  fold-  ing  chairs.  It  is  a  windy  day,  and  they  have  to  sit  quickly  once  their  chairs  are  open.  One  woman  is  caught  in  a  gust  and  plunges  into  a  hedge.  The  old  people  settle  in,  cranelike,  grumbling  about  the  tight  fit  and  the  changing  neighbor-  hood.  Ma  is  at  her  window,  and  I  wave  to  her  as  I  approach  the  Home.  When  I  enter  her  room,  Ma  com-  plains  that  the  night  nurse  ordered  her  to  dance  on  one  leg  for  bed-wetting.  Ma  had  been  hiding  bread  on  a  high  shelf  in  the  closet,  but  the  nurse  miraculously  climbed  up  and  ate  it.  &quot;What  are  we  to  do?&quot;  Ma  moans,  pressing  her  hands  to  her  cheeks.  &quot;Are  we  to  dole  out  bread  to  everyone  and  anyone?&quot;  Ma  confides  that  she  found  Mrs.  Kroll  from  Lafontaine  Avenue  in  bed  next  to  her  last  night.  &quot;It's  not  the  first  time.  I'm  not  even  sure  that  it's  Mrs.  Kroll  every  night.  I  never  see  her,  but  I  know  her  back  and  her  feet.  She  wraps  herself  in  my  blanket  and  shoves  me.  I  push  her  with  my  knees.  Itake  hold  of  her  ankles  and  place  them  far  over,  to  get  her  feet  out  of  my  face.  My  sleep  is  very  light,  and  now  I  am  awake  and  now  I  am  asleep.&quot;  I  help  Ma  to  get  ready  for  a  stroll  on  the  terrace.  She  puts  on  ahat  with  a  wide  brim  and  a  gauze  veil  for  pro-  tection  from  the  sun.  I  hadn't  realized  " b"how  tiny  and  thin  shehas  become.  I  have  to  pull  up  her  stockings  five  times  on  our  way  to  the  terrace.  We  pass  a  large  woman  in  an  Em-  press  Eug\xc3\xa9nie  hat  and  a  flared  coat  trimmed  with  monkey  fur,  &quot;That's  Mrs.  Gelb,&quot;  says  Ma.  &quot;She's  been  here  a  whole  year  without  discovery.  She  was  carried  in  through  a  side  entrance  for  a  price.  Once  inside,  she  was  on  her  own.&quot;  Ma  points  to  a  group  of  old  women  sitting  on  chairs  on  the  terrace,  facing  away  from  each  other.  &quot;They  are  here  since  1954,  on  special  papers,  and  are  allowed  to  remain.  Those  who  are  still  on  the  street  are  eating  out  of  garbage  cans.&quot;  June 25th  \xe2\x80\x9cLAST night  was  terrible,&quot;  Ma  says,  shaking  her  head.  &quot;They  threw  Resnick  out  of  the  window  along  with  his  chair.&quot;  I  ask  her  who  Resnick  is,  and  she  doesn't  know.  &quot;Today,&quot;  she  says,  &quot;was  worse  than  yesterday.  A  group  from  Flatbush  ar-  rived  in  a  truck.  Ten  had  broken  limbs  from  the  ride.  Seligman  wept  at  the  sight  and  received  them  with  coffee  and  cake.  Everybody  is  giving  them  presents.&quot;  At  the  Friday-night  service,  Rabbi  Bernstein  speaks  of  the  sorrow-  ful  condition  of  theold  and  says  that  all  elder-  ly  poor  should  be  eligi-  ble  for  food  and  shel-  ter.  During  his  sermon,  Ma  whispers  to  me  that  the  social  workers  say  Rabbi  Bernstein  is  look-  ing  for  trouble  with  his  &quot;everybody  is  equal&quot;  routine.  Ma  is  upset  tonight.  Back  in  her  room,  she  points  out  the  window  to  a  brick  wall  that  is  under  construction.  I  explain  that  they  are  enlarging  the  Home  to  add  another  three  hun-  dred  beds  for  some  of  the  destitute  old  people  trying  to  get  in.  But  Ma  is  convinced  that  the  brick  wall  means  something  awful.  &quot;Leon,  they  say  Selig-  man  is  poisoning  the  soup  to  speed  us  up  and  make  way  for  the  out-  siders.&quot;  Mrs.  Landau  comes  in.  She  turns  on  the  TV  with  a  firm  hand.  &quot;Life  goes  on,  Drezzle,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;The  Burns  guards  are  on  duty,  postmen  de-  liver  the  mail,  newspapers  come  out  daily,  telephone  services  continue,  gar-  bage  is  collected.  This  will  be  a  sum-  mer  with  no  end.&quot;  Ma  has  stopped  listening  to  her.  July  7th:  WHEN  I  see  Ma  today,  she  is  wearing  Mrs.  Landau's  teeth,  which  are  too  large  for  her  gums  and  give  her  a  strangely  stern  appearance.  With  one  hand  to  her  mouth,  Ma  says  that  more  Burns  guards  have  been  hired  and  that  they  make  daily  raids  on  the  increasing  number  of  il-  legals.  &quot;This  morning,  Leon!&quot;  she  says.  &quot;Barricades  everywhere!  Exits  blocked!  A  fruitless  chase-the  illegals  hid  in  the  basement.&quot;  Ma  is  afraid  that  if  she  complains  about  her  health  or  looks  sickly,  she  will  be  killed  outright.  We  pass  by  the  leathercraft  room  on  the  third  floor  south.  A  number  of  women  are  in  there,  cutting,  weaving,  gluing,  sewing.  The  room  is  a  mess of  chopped  and  tangled  pigskin  left-  overs.  &quot;From  morning  to  night  they're  making  leather  clubs  and  whips,&quot;  says  Ma.  There  area  lot  of  faces  to  kiss  at  the  Home  today.  There's  Rosie,  an  old  friend  of  Ma's,  to  kiss,  and  some  new  ones-Sylvia,  Mary,  and  Lilly.  I  kiss  a  Mrs.  Harris,  a  woman  in  her  eighties,  with  a  large  pink  face,  who  has  come  up  sighing  about  oldtimes:  &quot;When  we  were  all  considerate  of  each  other's  feelings  sitting  down  to  a  meal.  When  handing  food  to  a  neighbor  was  of  greater  importance  than  eating  our-  selves.&quot;  After  Ma  and  I  are  alone  again,  she  says,  &quot;You  forgot  to  kiss  Seligman  and  the  Burns  guards.&quot;  July 10th  MA  is  in  bed  again  today.  She  hardly  recognizes  me  at  first.  When  she  is  sure  it's  me,  she  says,  &quot;Some  of  the  social  workers  are  sup-  plying  the  illegals  with  clothing  and  linen  and  a  little  money  to  get  started  again,  but  somewhere  else.  Only  last  Sun-  day,  outsiders  from  the  Grand  Concourse  were  received  very  warmly  by  Seligman  and  a  committee  of  so-  cial  workers.  But  then  the  next  day  five  bus-  loads  arrived  from  [REDACTED].  Three  hun-  dred  and  fifty-all  were  turned  away.  Burns  guards  were  shoving  them  back  into  the  buses.  Leon,  the  sight  was  unforgettable.  In  the  end,  the  poor  will  be  without  a  place  to  lay  their  heads.&quot;  My  brother  Ronald  arrives  at  the  Home  in  a  blue  serge  suit,  a  white  shirt  with  abut-  ton-down  collar,  and  a  black  tie.  His  wife,  Doris,  wears  a  tan  gab-  ardine  suit  and  a  pink  kettle-shaped  hat,  which  give  her  a  safari  ap-  pearance.  &quot;I  am  a  woman  over  ninety,  Hazel,&quot;  Ma  tells  her.  &quot;So  many  women  wander  into  self-doubt  at  a  much  earlier  age,  but  I  took  good  care  of  myself.&quot;  Ma  has  Doris  mixed     Opa  F  " b"up  with  Ronald'  s  first  wife,  Hazel,  and  Ronald  is  upset.  &quot;It's  Doris,  Ma,  Doris,  not  Hazel,  Ma,  Dor  is.&quot;  &quot;Hazel,  I  used  to  put  Ronald's  shoes  and  pants  on  until  he  was  twelve  years  old.&quot;  July 14th:  MA  is  all  set  for  running  away  to-  day.  Some  load  she  has  ready:  a  satchel,  bedding,  pocketbooks,  and,  on  top,  pictures  of  the  whole  family  from  forty  years  ago.  The  stuff  clanks  every  time  she  tries  to  lift  it.  She  says  she  is  fed  up  looking  at  old  people.  &quot;The  out-  siders  stand  near  the  front  entrance  and  wait  for  someone  to  have  pity  on  them.  You  look  out  the  window  and  see  faces.  Some  are  lying  down  because  they  are  too  weak  to  stand.  Some  of  them  sing  in  the  courtyard.  They  are  hoping  for  tossed  coins.  At  night,  Leon-the  cries  of  the  hungry!  Selig-  man  walks  around  in  boots  and  talks  like  a  dictator.  He  says  that  the  dol-  lar  is  falling  and  soon  we'll  have  to  pay  in  foreign  currency.  Some  of  the  Burns  guards  dress  in  civilian  clothes  and  lounge  around  in  the  lobby.  Then  suddenly  they  dash  into  the  din-  ing  room  and  seize  people  sitting  down  to  a  meal  and  throw  them  out  on  the  street.&quot;  I  assure  Ma  that  she  is  ten  times  safer  in  the  Home  than  out  of  it.  I  read  her  a  headline  from  the  News:  &quot;ELD-  ERLY  BRONX  WOMAN  FLEES  MUG-  GER,  BREAKS  BOTH  LEGS.&quot;  July. 21st:  MRS.  had  a  stroke  on  Sun-  day  a  nd  is  in  the  infirmary.  When  I  go  up  to  see  her,  she  is  fight-  ing  for  breath,  Her  face  is  yellow  and  covered  with  sweat,  like  a  wax  mask  beginning  to  melt.  She  wants  to  te  ll  me  something,  but  she  can't.  Ma  has  told  me  that  Mr.  Kessler  is  now  seen  walking  around  with  Mrs.  Klingman,  who  used  to  be  a  high-class  tailor  and  is  putting  suits  together  for  him.  Today  they  promenade  past  us  in  the  lobby.  Mr.  Kessler  is  in  possession  of  a  jacket,  trousers,  and  gloves  of  rough  fabric  in  st  riking  colors.  Mrs.  Kling-  man  is  heavy  with  jewelry,  and  has  giv-  en  herself  a  complete  overhauling:  dyed  black  hair,  powder  and  rouge,  and  violet  eyelids.  Ma  shrugs  and  says,  &quot;Hers  is  the  triumph  of  the  wom-  an  of  eighty  when  she  lets  herself  loose,  may  she  burn'!&quot;  Ma  remains  sitting  in  her  room  this  afternoon-bent  and  thin,  her  head  drooping.  &quot;At  the  end  of  the  world,  when  the  ram's  horn  is  blown,  they'll  turn  into  mice,&quot;  she  says.  When  I  don't  ask  who,  she  continues.  &quot;There  is  a  new  decree,  Women  may  not  have  hairdos or  wear  high  heels  or  slacks.  But  there  are  those  whom  Seligman  favors.  These  people  live  in  luxury-all  others  may  perish.  Everywhere  you  turn,  there  are  beggars.  A  large  group  arrived  from  Hunts  Point  this  morning,  looking  for  an  opportunity  to  smuggle  them-  selves  in.&quot;  July  28th:  MRS.  Lanpaw  died  on  Monday,  and  Ma  has  a  new  roommate,  Mrs.  Benson.  She  is  a  stout  woman  in  a  wheelchair.  Her  hands  are  muffled  in  mittens  to  prevent  thumb-sucking,  and  because  of  some  impediment  she  cannot  speak.  Her  pale-gray  eyes  beam  with  a  steady  benevolence  that  is  not  put  into  words.  I  get  permission  to  take  Ma  to  the  Pancake.  She  has  become  incontinent,  so  her  Chinese  nurse,  Miss  Ling,  takes  her  to  the  john  and  diapers  her  with  a  large  sheet.  Ma  doesn't  like  the  han-  dling  she  gets,  and  she  calls  my  sister's  name.  &quot;Marion!  Marion!&quot;  she  cries  in  a  hoarse  voice.  &quot;Help  me!&quot;  Marion  is  in  [REDACTED]  and  doesn't  hear  her.  I  re-  assure  Ma  that  she'll  feel  better  once  we  get  out.  This  may  be  the  last  time  she  will  be  able  to  leave  the  Home.  One  of  the  relatives  visited  Ma  yes-  terday,  and  &quot;Drezzle's  sinking  fast&quot;  went  over  the  telephone  linesto  mem-  bers  of  the  family.  Tonight  the  calls  come  from  all  over.  Uncle  Sidney  phones  to  say  what  a  marvel  Ma  was  in  the  old  days:  &quot;Roses  in  her  cheeks,  Leon.  As  you  know,  she's  my  favorite  girl  in  the  whole  family.&quot;  Aunt  Harriet  phones:  &quot;Leon,  it  was  only  last  week  I  spoke  to  Drez-  zle.&quot;  My  sister  Marion  phones  from  [REDACTED].  &quot;I  hear  that  Ma  is  sinking  fast,&quot;  she  says.  I  reas-  sure  her:  &quot;Ma  walked  around  the  Home  three  times  with  me  this  after-  noon.  She's  young  in  spirit,  with  all  her  moles,  wrinkles,  and  whiskers.  Ma  is  fine.  Really,  Marion.&quot;  August  4th:  ODAY  I  find  Ma  in  bed,  napping.  &quot;Arise!&quot;  I  shout.  &quot;It's  the  dawn  of  a  new  day!&quot;  She  is  annoyed  by  my  sudden  arrival.  &quot;Ah,  reptile,&quot;  she  says,  &quot;I  " b"often  wonder  who  you  take  after.  Certainly  not  your  father  or  me.&quot;  Then  she  shifts  to  an  in-  timate  tone  of  voice  to  tell  me  that  Seligman's  son,  Meyer,  removed  the  silverware  from  the  din-  ing  room  and  that  at  dinner  last  night  she  had  to  pluck  at  the  steaming  potatoes  with  her  fingers.  She  says  that  she  went  down  to  talk  to  Selig-  man  about  this  but  was  told  that  the  director  does  not  talk  to  the  resi-  dents,  as  a  matter  of  principle.  Ma  tells  me  that  the  elderly  who  crowd  the  street  outside  the  Home  this  week  are  very  polite.  &quot;They  say  'Ladies  and  gentlemen,  may  we  have  something  to  eat?&quot;  and  'Thank  you'  and  'God  bless.&quot;  If  they  didn't  stick  out  their  hands,  Leon,  you  would  never  guess  they  were  beggars.  Ev-  eryone  looks  after  them-  selves  first  and  foremost.  I  am  afraid  to  walk  out-  side  the  room.  And  when  we  go  to  eat,  we  march  in  rows  of  six.  forbidden.&quot;  There  is  a  suffocating  smell  in  Ma's  room,  and  when  I  leave  the  Home  I  rush  into  the  open  air.  August 8th:  MA  has  been  moved  into  the  in-  firmary.  She  doesn't  recognize  me,  and  calls  me  Ronald-my  broth-  er's  name.  A  bell  rings,  and  as  if  at  a  command  signal  most  of  the  old  people  in  the  infirmary  speak  at  once.  Amid  the  clamor  of  voices,  each  of  which  is  raised  louder  and  louder,  Ma  and  I  cry  out  to  hear  one  another.  After  a  few  minutes  of  such  exercise,  Ma  is  voice-  less,  and  we  are  compelled  simply  to  sit  without  speaking.  Such  a  visit  is  torture.  August  18th:  MA  has  been  moved  into  the  in-  firmary  again.  Her  face  is  black-  and-blue  from  a  fall  she  took  the  day  before  yesterday.  &quot;The  social  workers  are  letting  outsiders  into  the  Home  in  batches,&quot;  she  tells  me.  &quot;They  let  in  one  batch,  wait  a  moment,  let  in  another  batch,  counting  them  off,  mostly  in  groups  of  twelve.  Seligman  is  issuing  meal  tickets.  He's  giving  orders  at  the  entrance.  A  striking  figure.  From  a  social  worker  the  outsiders  get  a  splash  of  soup  each.  They  sit  down  on  the  sidewalk  and  slurp  it,  smack  their  lips,  poke  one  another,  and  spill  soup  all  over.  Some  clap  their  hands  in  wonder  and  say  'God  bless.&quot;  But  what  about  us?  The  mood  in  the  Home  is  very  bad.  It  is  only  Wednesday,  and  the  food  forthe  week  is  already  eaten.  Seligman  sent  the  social  workers  on  food  missions  to  buy  on  credit.&quot;  Ma  is  white  as  a  sheet  and  is  all  up-  set.  She  looks  as  if  she  hasn't  slept.  &quot;The  illegals  keep  getting  in,  more  of  them  every  day.  And  the  crowd  out-  side  .  ..  I  see  people  fall,  One  woman  gets  up  with  a  cry,  the  others  lie  where  they  are.  The  mob  presses  over  them,  treading  on  them.  They  scream  for  food.  They're  crazy!  At  least  a  hun-  dred  of  them  ...  Seligman  is  out  like  ashot  to  speak  the  truth.  'Make  way!  Make  way!'  He  pushes  through  the  crowd.  'I  have  no  illusions  about  the  future,&quot;  he  shouts  'We  here  in  the  Home  know  only  too  well  the  wicked-  ness  of  your  instincts  for  eating,  your  terrifying  appetites.  We  have  done  our  best,  tried  everything,  now  we  are  at  the  end  of  our  rope.  We  ourselves  are  out  of  food.  Now  you  must  count  on  yourselves  alone.  Count  on  us  no  long-  er,  we  beg  of  you.  The  Home  and  I  are  at  the  end  of  our  patience.  There  is  nothing  more  to  eat.'  Nobody  moves.  Poor  Seligman  shrieks  at  the  top  of  his  lungs  that  there  is  no  food  and  no  shelter. &quot; They  get  Seligman  from  behind.  He  is  still  resisting.  ...  It's  shameful.  Even  so,  he  throws  kisses  to  those  of  us  watching  from  the  windows  of  the  Home.  We  understand  him.  The  out-  siders  push  and  shove  and  bark  like  dogs.  .  .  .  Seligman  is  waving  his  arms,  working  himself  up  into  a  frenzy.  He  is  going  tosay  something.  His  words  sound  tortured.  ...  It's  unbelievable.  The  Burns  guards  have  come  out,  laughing.  They  are  turned  loose  on  the  mob.  They  grab  the  ones  that  are  shouting  the  loudest.  The  horde  breaks  down  the  gates,  bending  the  bars,  ripping  them  out  of  the  cement.  They  storm  the  door,  they  flood  into  the  entrance,  they  move  about  on  all  fours.  ...I  feel  them  coming,  press-  ing  up  against  the  glass  doors  of  the  lobby,  a  pack  of  old  faces.  .  ..&quot;"