 b"ON  Friday  she  always  sat  in  the  park,  waiting  for  him  to  come.  At  one-thirty,  he  came  to  this  park  bench  (if  someone  was  already  sitting  there,  he  loitered  around  it),  and  thenthey  would  sit  side  by  side,  talking  quietly,  like  Ingrid  Bergman  and  Cary  Grant  in  &quot;Notorious.&quot;  Both  believed  in  flying  saucers  and  health  food.  They  shared  a  hatred  of  laundro-  mats,  guilt  about  not  sending  presents  to  relatives  on  birthdays  and  at  Christ-  mas,  and  a  dog-part  weimaraner,  part  German  shepherd-named  Sam.  She  was  twenty,  and  she  worked  in  an  office;  she  was  pretty  because  she  took  a  lot  of  time  with  makeup,  the  way  a  housewife  who  really  cared  might  flute  the  edges  of  a  piecrust  with  thumb  and  index  finger.  He  was  twenty-four,  a  graduate-school  dropout  (theatre),  who  collaborated  on  songs  with  his  friend  Gus  Greeley,  and  he  wanted,  he  fervently  wanted,  to  make  it  big  as  a  songwriter.  His  mother  was  Greek  and  French,  his  father  American.  This  girl,  Sharon,  was  not  the  first  woman  who  had  fallen  in  love  with  Jack  because  he  was  so  handsome.  She  took  the  sub-  way  to  get  to  the  bench,  which  was  in  [REDACTED]  Square  Park;  he  walked  from  the  basement  apartment  he  lived  in.  Whichever  of  them  had  Sam  that  day  (they  kept  the  dog  on  alternating  weeks)  brought  him.  They  could  do  this  because  her  job  only  required  her  to  work  from  eight  to  one,  and  he  worked  at  home.  They  had  gotten  the  dog  because  they  feared  for  its  life.  A  man  had  come  up  to  them  on  West  Tenth  Street  carrying  a  cardboard  box,  smiling,  and  saying,  &quot;Does  the  little  lady  want  a  kitty  cat?&quot;  They  peered  inside.  &quot;Puppies,&quot;  Jack  said.  &quot;Well,  who  gives  a  damn?&quot;  the  man  had  said,  putting  the  box  down,  his  face  dark  and  contorted.  Sharon  and  Jack  had  stared  at  the  man;  he  had  stared  bel-  ligerently  back.  Neither  of  them  was  quite  sure  how  things  had  suddenly  turned  ominous.  She  had  wanted  to  get  out  of  there  right  away,  before  the  man  took  a  swing  at  Jack,  but  to  her  sur-  prise  Jack  smiled  at  the  man  and  dipped  into  the  box  for  a  dog.  He  ex-  tracted  the  scrawny,  wormy  Sam.  She  took  the  dog  first,  because  there  was  a  veterinarian's  office  close  to  her  apart-  ment.  Once  the  dogwas  cured  of  its  worms,  she  gave  it  to  Jack  to  begin  its  training.  In  his  apartment,  the  puppy  would  fix  its  eyes  on  the  parallelogram  of  sunlight  that  sometimes  appeared  on  the  wood  floor  in  the  late  morning-  sniffing  it,  backing  up,  edging  up  to  it  at  the  border.  In  her  apartment,  the  puppy's  object  of  fascination  was  a  clarinet  that  a  friend  had  left  there  when  he  moved.  The  puppy  looked  at  it  respectfully.  She  watched  the  dog  for  signs  of  maladjustment,  wondering  if  it  was  too  young  to  be  shuttling  back  and  forth,  from  home  to  home.  (She  herself  had  been  raised  by  her  mother,  but  she  and  her  sister  would  fly  to  [REDACTED]  every  summer  to  spend  two  months  with  their  father.)  The  dog  seemed  happy  enough.  At  night,  in  Jack's  one-room  apart-  ment,  they  would  sometimes  lie  with  their  heads  at  thefoot  of  the  bed,  staring  at  the  ornately  carved  oak  headboard  and  the  old-fashioned  light  attached  to  it,  with  the  little  sticker  still  on  the  shade  that  said  &quot;From  home  of  Lady  Astor.  $4.00.&quot;  They  had  found  the  lamp  in  Ruckersville,  [REDACTED],  on  the  only  long  trip  they  ever  took  out  of  the  city.  On  the  bed  with  them  there  were  usually  sheets  of  music-songs  that  he  was  scoring.  She  would  look  at  the  pieces  of  paper  with  lyrics  typed  on  them,  and  read  them  slowly  to  herself,  appraisingly,  as  if  they  were  poetry.  On  weekends,  they  spent  the  days  and  nights  together.  There  was  a  small  but  deep  fireplace  in  his  apartment,  and  when  September  came  they  would  light  a  fire  in  the  late  afternoon,  although  it  was  not  yet  cold,  and  sometimes  light  a  stick  of  sandalwood  incense,  and  they  would  lean  on  each  otheror  sit  side  by  side,  listening  to  Vivaldi.  She  knew  very  little  about  such  music  when  she  first  met  him,  and  much  more  about  it  by  the  time  their  first  month  had  passed.  There  was  no  one  thing  she  knew  a  great  deal  about-as  he  did  about  mu-  sic-so  there  was  really  nothing  that  she  could  teach  him.  &quot;Where  were  you  in  1974?&quot;  he  asked  her  once.  &quot;In  school.  In  Ann  Arbor.&quot;  &quot;What  about  1975?&quot;  &quot;In  [REDACTED].  Working  at  a gallery.&quot;  &quot;Where  are  you  now?&quot;  he  said.  She  looked  at  him  and  frowned.  &quot;In  New  York,&quot;  she  said.  He  turned  toward  her  and  kissed  her  arm.  &quot;I  know,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;But  why  so  serious?&quot;  She  knew  that  she  was  a  serious  per-  son,  and  she  liked  it  that  he  could  make  her  smile.  Sometimes,  though,  she  did  not  quite  understand  him,  so  she  was  smiling  now  not  out  ofappreciation  but  because  she  thought  a  smile  would  make  things  all  right.  Carol,  her  closest  friend,  asked  why  she  didn't  move  in  with  him,.  She  did  not  want  to  tell  Carol  that  it  was  be-  cause  she  had  not  been  asked,  so  she  said  that  the  room  he  lived  in  was  very  small  and  that  during  the  day  he  liked  solitude,  so  he  could  work.  She  was  also  not  sure  if  she  would  move  in  if  he  did  ask  her.  He  gave  her  the  impres-  sion  sometimes  that  he  was  the  serious  one,  not  she.  Perhaps  &quot;serious&quot;  was  the  wrong  word;  it  was  more  that  he  seemed  despondent.  He  would  get  into  moods  and  not  snap  out  of  them;he  would  drink  red  wine  and  play  Billie  Holiday  records,  and  shake  his  head  and  say  that  if  he  had  not  made  it  as  a  song-  writer  by  now  chances  were  that  he  would  never  make  it.  She  was  not  real-  ly  familiar  with  Billie  Holiday  until  he  began  playing  the  records  for  her.  He  would  play  a  song  that  Billie  had  re-  corded  early  in  her  career,  then  play  another  record  of  the  same  song  as  she  had  sung  it  later.  He  said  that  he  preferred  her  ruined  voice.  Two  songs  in  particular  stuck  in  her  mind.  One  was  &quot;Solitude,&quot;  and  the  first  timeshe  heard  Billie  Holiday  sing  the  first  three  words,  &quot;In  my  solitude,&quot;  she  felt  a  physical  sensation,  as  if  someone  were  drawing  something  sharp  over  her  heart,  very  lightly.  The  other  record  she  kept  thinking  of  was  &quot;Gloomy  Sunday.&quot;  He  told  her  that  it  had  been  banned  from  the  radio  back  then,  be-  cause  it  was  said  that  it  had  been  re-  sponsible  for  suicides.  FOR  Christmas  that  year,  he  gave  her  a  small  pearl  ring  that  had  been  worn  by  his  mother  when  she  was  a  girl.  The  ring  fitted  perfectly  ;  she  only  had  to  wiggle  it  slightly  to  get  it  to  slide  over  the  joint  of  her  finger,  and  when  it  was  in  place  it  felt  as  if  she  were  not  wearing  a  ring  at  all.  There  were  eight  prongs  holding  the  pearl  in  place.  She  often  counted  things:  how  many  panes  in  a  window,  how  many  slats  in  a  bench.  Then,  for  her  birth-  day,  in  January,  he  gave  her  a  silver  chain  with  a  small  sapphire  stone,  to  be  worn  on  the  wrist.  She  was  delighted;  she  wouldn't  let  him  help  her  fasten  the  clasp.  &quot;You  like  it?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;That's  all  I've  got.&quot;  She  looked  at  him,  a  little  startled.  His  mother  had  died  the  year  before  she  met  him;  what  he  was  saying  was  that  he  had  given  her  the  last  of  her  things.  There  was  a  photograph  of  his  " b"mother  on  the  bookcease-a  black-and-  white  picture  in  a  little  silver  frame  of  a  smiling  young  woman,  whose  hair  was  barely  darker  than  her  skin.  Because  he  kept  the  picture,  she  assumed  that  he  worshipped  his  mother.  One  night  he  corrected  that  impression  by  saying  that  his  mother  had  always  tried  to  sing  in  her  youth,  when  she  had  no  voice,  which  had  embarrassed  everyone.  He  said  that  she  was  a  silent  person;  in  the  end,  he  said,  you  would  have  to  say  that  she  had  done  and  said  very  little.  He  told  Sharon  that  a  few  days  after  her  death  he  and  his  father  had  gone  through  her  possessions  together,  and  in  one  of  her  drawers  they  had  come  upon  a  small  wooden  box  shaped  like  a  heart.  Inside  the  box  were  two  pieces  of  jewelry-the  ring  and  the  chain  and  sapphire.  &quot;So  she  kept  some  token,  then,&quot;  his  father  had  said,  star-  ing  down  intothe  little  box.  &quot;You  gave  them  to  her  as  presents?&quot;  he  had  asked  his  father.  &quot;No,&quot;  his  father  had  said  apologetically.  &quot;They  weren't  from  me.&quot;  And  then  the  two  of  them  had  stood  there  looking  at  each  other,  both  understanding  perfectly.  She  said,  &quot;But  what  did  you  finally  say  to  break  the  silence?&quot;  &quot;Something  pointless,  I'm  sure,&quot;  he  said.  She  thought  to  herself  that  that  might  explain  why  he  had  not  backed  down,  on  Tenth  Street,  when  the  man  offering  the  puppies  took  a  stance  as  though  he  wanted  to  fight.  Jack  was  used  to  hearing  bad  things-things  that  took  him  by  surprise.  He  had  learned  to  react  coolly.  Later  that  winter,  when  she  told  him  that  she  loved  him,  his  face  had  stayed  expressionless  a  split  second  too  long,  and  then  he  had  smiled  his  slow  smile  and  given  her  a  kiss.  The  dog  grew.  It  took  to  training  quickly  and  walked  at  heel,  and  she  was  glad  that  they  had  saved  it.  She  took  it  to  the  veterinarian  to  ask  why  it  was  so  thin.  She  was  told  that  the  dog  was  growing  fast,  and  that  eventually  it  would  start  filling  out.  She  did  not  tell  Jack  that  she  had  taken  the  dog  to  the  veterinarian,  because  he  thought  she  doted  on  it  too  much.  She  wondered  if  he  might  not  be  a  little  jealous  of  the  dog.  Slowly,  things  began  to  happen  with  his  music.  A  band  on  the  [REDACTED]  that  played  a  song  that  he  and  Gus  had  written  was  getting  a  big  name,  and  they  had  not  dropped  the  song  from  their  repertoire.  In  February  he  got  a  call  from  the  band's  agent,  who  said  that  they  wanted  more  songs.  He  and  Gus  shut  themselves  in  the  basement  apartment,  and  she  went  walking  with  Sam,  the  dog.  She  went  to  the  park,  until  she  ran  into  the  crippled  man  too  many  times.  He  was  a  young  man,  rather  handsome,  who  walked  with  two  metal  crutches  and  had  a  radio  that  hung  from  a  strap  around  his  neck  and  rested  on  his  chest,  playing  loudly.  The  man  always  seemed  to  be  walking  in  the  direction  she  walked  in,  and  she  had  to  walk  awkwardly  to  keep  in  line  with  him  so  they  could  talk.  She  really  had  nothing  to  talk  to  the  man  about,  and  he  helped  very  little,  and  the  dog  was  confused  by  the  crutches  and  made  little  leaps  toward  the  man,  as  though  they  were  all  three  playing  a  game.  She  stayed  away  from  the  park  for  a  while,  and  when  she  went  back  he  was  not  there.  One  day  in  March,  the  park  was  more  crowded  than  usual  because  it  was  an  unusually  warm,  spring-  like  afternoon,  and,  walking  with  Sam,  half  dreaming,  she  passed  a  heavily  madeup  woman  on  a  bench,  who  was  wearing  a  polka-dot  turban,  with  a  hand-lettered  sign  propped  against  her  legs  announcing  that  she  was  Miss  [REDACTED],  a  fortune-teller.  There  was  a  young  boy  sitting  next  to  Miss  Syd-  ney,  and  he  called  out  to  her,  &quot;Come  on!&quot;  She  smiled  slightly  and  shook  her  head  no.  The  boy  was  Italian,  she  thought,  but  the  woman  was  hard  to  place.  &quot;Miss  Syd-  ney's  going  to  tell  you  about  fire  and  famine  and  early  death,&quot;  the  boy  said.  He  laughed,  and  she  hurried  on,  thinking  it  was  odd  that  the  boy  would  know  the  word  &quot;famine.&quot;  She  was  still  alone  with  Jack  most  of  every  weekend,  but  much  of  his  talk  now  was  about  technical  problems  he  was  having  with  scoring,  and  she  had  trouble  following  him.  Once,  he  became  en-  raged  and  said  that  she  had  no  interest  in  his  career.  He  said  that  because  he  wanted  to  move  to  [REDACTED]  and  she  said  she  was  staying  in  New  York.  She  had  said  it  assuming  at  once  that  he  would  go  anyhow.  When  he  made  it  clear  that  he  would  not  leave  without  her,  she  started  to  cry,  because  she  was  so  grateful  that  he  was  staying.  He  thought  she  was  " b"crying  because  he  had  yelled  at  her  and  said  that  she  had  no  interest  in  his  career.  He  took  back  what  he  had  said  ;  he  told  her  that  she  was  very  tolerant,  and  that  she  often  gave  good  advice.  She  had  a  good  ear,  even  if  she  didn't  express  her  opinions  in  complex  technical  terms.  She  cried  again,  and  this  time  even  she  did  not  realize  at  first  why.  Later,  she  knew  that  it  was  because  he  had  never  said  so  many  kind  things  to  her  at  once.  Actually,  very  few  people  in  her  life  had  ever  gone  out  of  their  way  to  say  some-  thing  kind,  and  it  had  just  been  too  much.  She  began  to  wonder  if  her  nerves  were  get-  ting  bad.  Once,  she  woke  up  in  the  night  disoriented  and  sweat-  ing,  having  dreamed  that  she  was  out  in  the  sun,  with  all  her  en-  ergy  gone.  It  was  sti-  fing  hot  and  she  couldn't  move.  &quot;The  sun's  a  good  thing,&quot;  he  said  to  her  when  she  told  him  the  dream.  &quot;Think  about  the  bright  beautiful  sun  in  [REDACTED].  Think  about  stretching  out  on  a  warm  day  with  a  warm  breeze.&quot;  Trembling,  she  left  himand  went  into  the  kitchen  for  water.  He  did  not  know  that  if  he  had  really  set  out  for  [REDACTED]  she  would  have  followed.  In  June,  when  the  air  pollution  got  very  bad  and  the  air  carried  the  smell  that  sidewalks  get  when  they  are  baked  through  every  day,  he  began  to  com-  plain  that  it  was  her  fault  that  they  were  in  New  York  and  not  in  Cali-  fornia.  &quot;But  I  just  don't  like  that  way  of  life,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;If  I  went  there  I  wouldn't  be  happy.&quot;  &quot;What's  so  appealing  about  this  up-  tight  New  York  scene?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  wake  up  in  the  night  in  a  sweat.  You  won't  even  walk  through  [REDACTED]  Square  Park  anymore.&quot;  &quot;It's  because  of  that  man  with  the  crutches,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;People  like  that.  I  told  you  it  was  only  because  of  him.&quot;  &quot;So  let's  get  away  from  all  that.  Let's  go  somewhere.&quot;  &quot;You  think  there  aren't  people  like  that  in  [REDACTED]?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It  doesn't  matter  what  I  think  about  [REDACTED],  if  I'm  not  going.&quot;  He  clamped  earphones  on  his  head.  HAT  same  month,  while  she  and  Jack  and  Gus  were  sharing  a  pot  of  cheese  fondue,  she  found  out  that  Jack  had  a  wife.  They  were  at  Gus's  apartment,  when  Gus  casually  said  something  about  Myra.  &quot;Who's  Myra?&quot;  she  asked,  and  he  said,  &quot;You  know-Jack's  wife,  Myra.&quot;  It  seemed  unreal  to  her-even  more  so  because  Gus's  apartment  was  such  an  odd  place;  that  night,  Gus  had  plugged  a  defec-  tive  lamp  into  an  outlet  and  blown  out  a  fuse.  Then  he  had  plugged  in  his  only  other  lamp,  which  was  a  sunlamp.  It  glowed  so  brightlythat  he  had  to  turn  it,  in  its  wire  enclosure,  to  face  the  wall.  As  they  sat  on  the  floor  eating,  their  three  shadows  were  thrown  up  against  the  opposite  wall,  She  had  been  looking  at  that-detached,  the  way  you  would  stand  back  to  appreciate  a  pic-  ture-when  she  tuned  in  on  the  con-  versation  and  heard  them  talking  about  someone  named  Myra.  &quot;You  didn't  know?&quot;  Gus  saidto  her.  &quot;O.K.,  I  want  you  both  out.  I  don't  want  any  heavy  scene  in  my  place.  I  couldn't  take  it.  Come  on-I  really  mean  it.  I  want  you  out.  Please  don't  talk  about  it  here.&quot;  On  the  street,  walking  beside  Jack,  it  occurred  to  her  that  Gus's  outburst  was  very  strange,  almost  as  strange  as  Jack  not  telling  her  about  his  wife.  &quot;I  didn't  see  what  would  be  gained  by  telling  you,&quot;  Jack  said.  They  crossed  the  street.  They  passed  the  Riviera  Caf\xc3\xa9.  She  had  once  counted  the  number  of  panes  of  glass  across  the  Riviera's  front.  &quot;Did  you  ever  think  about  us  getting  married?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  thought  about  it.  I  thought  that  if  you  didn't  want  to  follow  me  to  [REDACTED],  of  course  you  wouldn't  want  to  marry  me.&quot;  &quot;You're  already  married,&quot;  she  said.  She  felt  that  she  had  justsaid  some-  thing  very  sensible.  &quot;Do  you  think  it  was  right  to-&quot;  He  had  started  to  walk  ahead  of  her.  She  hurried  to  catch  up.  She  wanted  to  call  after  him,  &quot;I  would  have  gone!&quot;  She  was  panting.  &quot;Listen,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;I'm  like  Gus,  I  don't  want  to  hear  it.&quot;  &quot;You  mean  we  can't  even  talk  about  " b"this?  You  don't  think  that  I'm  entitled  to  hear  about  it?&quot;  &quot;I  love  you  and  I  don't  love  Myra,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Where  is  she?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;In  El  Paso,&quot;  &quot;If  you  don't  love  her,  why  aren't  you  divorced?&quot;  &quot;You  think  that  everybody  who  doesn't  love  his  wife  gets  divorced?  I'm  not  the  only  one  who  doesn't  do  the  logical  thing,  you  know.  You  get  night-  mares  from  living  in  this  sewer,  and  you  won't  get  out  of  it.&quot;  &quot;It's  different,&quot;  she  said.  What  was  he  talking  about?  &quot;Until  I  met  you,  I  didn't  think  about  it.  She  was  in  El  Paso,  she  was  gone-period.&quot;  &quot;Are  you  going  to  get  a  divorce?&quot;  &quot;Are  you  going  to  marry  me?&quot;  They  were  crossing  Seventh  Avenue.  They  both  stopped  still,  halfway  across  the  street,  and  were  almost  hit  by  a  Checker  cab.  They  hurried  across,  and  on  the  other  side  of  the  street  they  stopped  again.  She  looked  at  him,  as  surprised  but  as  suddenly  sure  about  something  as  he  must  havebeen  the  time  he  and  his  father  had  found  the  jewelry  in  the  heart-shaped  wooden  box.  She  said  no,  she  was  not  going  to  marry  him.  IT  dragged  on  for  another  month.  During  that  time,  unknown  to  her,  he  wrote  the  song  that  was  going  to  launch  his  career.  Months  after  he  had  left  the  city,  she  heard  it  on  her  AM  radio  one  morning,  and  she  knew  that  it  was  his  song,  even  though  he  had  never  mentioned  it  to  her.  She  leashed  the  dog  and  went  out  and  walked  to  the  record  shop  on  Sixth  Avenue-  walking  almost  the  same  route  they  had  walked  the  night  she  found  out  about  his  wife-and  she  went  in,  with  the  dog.  Her  face  was  so  strange  that  the  man  behind  the  cash  register  al-  lowed  her  to  break  the  rule  about  dogs  in  the  shop,  because  he  did  not  want  another  hassle  that  day.  She  found  the  group's  record  album  with  the  song  on  it,  turned  it  over,  and  saw  his  name,  in  small  type.  She  stared  at  the  title,  re-  placed  the  record,  and  went  back  out-  side,  hunched  as  if  it  were  winter.  During  the  month  before  he  left,  though,  and  before  she  ever  heard  the  song,  the  two  of  them  sat  on  the  roof  of  his  building  one  night,  arguing.  They  were  having  a  Tom  Collins,  be-  cause  a  musician  who  had  been  at  his  place  the  night  before  had  brought  his  own  mix  and  then  left  it  behind.  She  had  never  had  a  Tom  Collins.  It  tasted  appropriately  bitter,  she  thought.  She  held  out  the  ring  and  the  bracelet  to  him.  He  said  that  if  she  made  him  take  them  back,  he  would  drop  them  over  the  railing.  She  believed  him  and  put  them  back  in  her  pocket.  He  said,  and  she  agreed,  that  things  had  not  been  perfect  between  them  even  before  she  found  out  about  his  wife.  Myra  could  play  the  guitar,  and  she  could  not;  Myra  loved  to  travel,  and  she  was  afraid  to  leave  New  York  City.  As  she  listened  to  what  he  said,  she  counted  the  posts-black  iron  and  shaped  like  arrows-of  the  fence  that  wound  around  the  roof.  It  was  almost  entirely  dark,  and  she  looked  up  to  see  if  there  were  any  stars.  She  yearned  to  be  in  the  country,  where  she  could  always  see  them.  She  said  she  wanted  him  to  bor-  row  a  car  before  he  left,  so  that  they  could  ride  out  into  the  woods  in  New  Jersey.  Two  nights  later,  he  picked  her  up  at  her  apartment  in  a  red  Volvo,  with  Sam  panting  in  the  back,  and  they  wound  their  way  through  the  city  and  to  the  Lincoln  Tunnel.  Just  as  they  were  about  to  go  under,  another  song  began  to  play  on  the  tape  deck.  It  was  Ringo  Starr,  singing  &quot;Octopus's  Gar-  den.&quot;  Jack  laughed.  &quot;That's  a  hell  of  a  fine  song  to  come  on  just  before  we  enter  the  tunnel.&quot;  Inside  the  tunnel,  the  dog  flattened  himself  on  the  back  seat.  &quot;You  want  to  keep  Sam,  don't  you?&quot;  he  said.  She  was  shocked,  be-  cause  she  had  never  even  thought  of  losing  Sam.  &quot;Of  course  I  do,&quot;  she  said,  and  unconsciously  edged  a  little  away  from  him.  He  had  never  said  " b"whose  car  it  was.  For  no  reason  at  all,  she  thought  that  the  car  must  belong  to  a  woman.  &quot;I  lovethat  syrupychorus  of  'aaaaah'  Lennon  and  McCartney  sing,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;They  really  had  a  fine  sense  of  humor.&quot;  &quot;Is  that  a  funny  song?&quot;  she  said.  She  had  never  thought  about  it.  They  were  on  Boulevard  East,  in  Weehawken,  and  she  was  staring  out  the  window  at  the  lights  across  the  water.  He  saw  that  she  was  looking,  and  drove  slower.  &quot;This  as  good  as  stars  for  you?&quot;&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It's  amazing.&quot;  &quot;All  yours,&quot;  he  said,  taking  his  hand  offthe  wheel  to  swoop  it  through  the  air  in  mock  graciousness.  After  he  left,  she  would  remember  that  as  one  of  the  little  digs  he  had  got-  ten  in-one  of  the  less  than  nice  things  he  had  said.  That  night,  though,  im-  pressed  by  the  beauty  of  the  city,  she  let  it  go  by;  in  fact,  she  would  have  to  work  on  herself  later  to  reinterpret  many  of  the  things  he  had  saidas  being  nasty.  That  made  it  easier  to  deal  with  his  absence.  She  would  block  out  the  memory  of  his  pulling  over  and  kissing  her,  of  the  two  of  them  getting  out  of  the  car  and,  with  Sam  between  them,  walking.  One  of  the  last  times  she  saw  him,  she  went  to  his  apartment  on  a  night  when  five  other  people  were  there-  people  she  had  never  met.  His  father  had  shipped  him  some  eight-millimetre  home  movies  and  a  projector,  and  the  people  all  sat  on  the  floor,  smoking  grass  and  talking,  laughing  at  the  movies  of  children  (Jack  at  his  fourth  birthday  party;  Jack  in  the  Halloween  parade  at  school;  Jack  on  Easter,  col-  lecting  eggs).  One  of  the  people  on  the  floor  said,  &quot;Hey,  get  that  big  dog  out  of  the  way,&quot;  and  she  glared  at  him,  hating  him  for  not  liking  the  dog.  What  if  his  shadow  had  briefly  dark-  ened  the  screen?  She  felt  angry  enough  to  scream,  angry  enough  to  say  that  the  dog  had  grown  up  in  the  apartment  and  had  the  right  to  walk  around.  Looking  at  the  home  movies,  she  tried  to  con-  centrate  on  Jack's  blunders:  dropping  an  Easter  egg,  running  down  the  hill  afterthe  egg,  going  so  fast  he  stum-  bled  into  some  blur,  perhaps  his  moth-  er's  arms.  But  what  she  mostly  thought  about  was  what  a  beautiful  child  he  was,  what  a  happy-looking  little  boy.  There  was  no  sense  in  her  staying  there  and  getting  sentimental,  so  she  made  her  excuses  and  left  early.  Outside,  she  saw  the  red  Volvo,  gleaming  as  though  it  had  been  newly  painted.  She  was  sure  that  it  belonged  to  an  Indian  wom-  an  in  a  blue  sari  who  had  been  there,  sitting  close  to  Jack.  Sharon  was  glad  that  as  she  had  been  leaving,  Sam  raised  his  hackles  and  growled  at  one  of  the  people  there.  She  had  scolded  him,  but  out  on  the  street  she  had  patted  him,  secretly  glad.  Jack  had  not  asked  her  again  to  come  to  [REDACTED]  with  him,  and  she  told  herself  that  she  probably  would  not  have  changed  her  mind  if  he  had.  The  tears  that  began  to  well  up  in  her  eyes  were  because  a  cab  wouldn't  stop  for  her  when  the  driver  saw  that  she  had  a  dog,  she  told  her-  self.  She  ended  up  walking  blocks  and  blocks  back  to  her  apartment  that  night;  it  made  her  more  certain  than  ever  that  she  loved  the  dog  and  that  shedid  not  love  Jack.  ABOUT  the  time  she  got  the  first  postcard  from  Jack,  things  started  to  get  a  little  bad  with  Sam.  She  was  afraid  that  he  might  have  distemper,  so  she  took  him  to  the  veterinarian,  waited  her  turn,  and  told  the  doctor  that  the  dog  was  growling  at  some  people  and  she  had  no  idea  why.  He  assured  her  that  there  was  nothing  physically  wrong  with  the  dog,  and  blamed  it  on  the  heat.  When  another  month  passed  and  it  was  less  hot,  she  visited  the  veteri-  narian  again.  &quot;It's  the  breeding,&quot;  he  said,  and  sighed.  &quot;It's  a  bad  mix.  A  " b"weimaraner  is  a  mean  dog,  and  that  cross  isn't  a  good  one.  He's  part  Ger-  man  shepherd,  isn't  he?&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Well-that's  it,  I'm  afraid.&quot;  \xc2\xab'There  isn't  any  medication?&quot;  &quot;It's  the  breeding,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Believe  me.  I've  seen  it  before.&quot;  &quot;What  happens?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;&quot;What  happens  to  the  dog?&quot;  \xe2\x80\x98(Yes.3)  \xc2\xab&quot;&quot;Well-watch  him.  See  how  things  go.  He  hasn't  bitten  anybody,  has  he?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Of  course  not.&quot;  &quot;Well-don't  say  of  course  not.  Be  careful  with  him.&quot;  &quot;I'm  careful  with  him,&quot;  she  said.  She  said  it  indignantly.  But  she  wanted  to  hear  something  else.  She  didn't  want  to  leave.  Walking  home,  she  thought  about  what  she  could  do.  Maybe  she  could  take  Sam  to  her  sister's  house  in  Mor-  ristown  for  a  while.  Maybe  if  he  could  run  more,  and  keep  cool,  he  would  calm  down.  She  put  aside  her  knowl-  edge  that  it  was  late  September  and  already  much  cooler,  and  that  the  dog  growled  more,  not  less.  He  had  growled  at  the  teen-age  boy  she  had  given  money  to  to  help  her  carry  her  groceries  upstairs.  It  was  the  boy's  ex-     treme  reaction  to  Sam  that  had  made  it  worse,  though,  You  had  to  act  calm  around  Sam  when  he  got  like  that,  and  the  boy  had  panicked.  She  persuaded  her  sister  to  take  Sam,  and  her  brother-in-law  drove  into  New  York  on  Sunday  and  drove  them  out  to  New  Jersey.  Sam  was  put  on  a  chain  attached  to  arope  her  brother-in-law  had  strung  up  in  the  back  yard,  be-  tween  two  huge  trees.  To  her  surprise,  Sam  did  not  seem  to  mind  it.  He  did  not  bark  and  strain  at  the  chain  until  he  saw  her  drive  away,  late  that  after-  noon;  her  sister  was  driving,  and  she  was  in  the  back  seat  with  her  niece,  and  she  looked  back  and  sawhim  lunging  at  the  chain.  The  rest  of  it  was  predictable,  even  to  her.  Even  as  they  drove  away,  she  almost  knew  it  all.  The  dog  would  bite  the  child.  Of  course,  the  child  should  not  have  annoyed  the  dog,  but  she  did,  and  the  dog  bit  her,  and  then  there  was  a  hysterical  call  from  her  sister  and  another  call  from  her  brother-in-  law,  saying  that  she  must  come  get  the  dog  immediately-that  he  would  come  for  her  so  she  could  get  him-and  blaming  her  for  bringing  it  to  them  in  the  first  place.  Her  sister  had  never  really  liked  her,  and  the  incident  with  the  dog  was  probably  just  what  she  had  been  waiting  for  to  sever  contact.  When  Sam  came  back  to  the  city,  things  got  no  better.  He  turned  against  everyone  and  it  was  difficult  even  to  walk  him,  because  he  had  become  so  aggressive.  Sometimes  a  day  would  pass  without  any  of  that,  and  she  would  tell  herself  that  it  was  over  now-an  awful  period  but  over-and  then  the  next  morning  the  dog  would  bare  its  teeth  at  some  person  they  passed.  There  began  to  be  little  signs  that  the  dog  had  it  in  for  her,  too,  and  when  that  hap-  pened  she  turned  her  bedroom  over  to  him.  She  hauled  her  mattress  to  the  liv-  ing  room,  and  let  him  have  his  own  room.  She  left  the  door  cracked,  so  he  would  not  think  he  was  being  punished.  But  she  knew,  and  Sam  knew,  that  it  was  best  he  stay  in  the  room.  If  nothing  else,  he  was  an  exceptionally  smart  dog.  SHE  heard  from  Jack  for  over  a  year-sporadically,  but  then  some-  times  two  postcards  in  a  single  week.  He  was  doing  well,  playing  in  a  band  as  well  as  writing  music.  When  she  stopped  hearing  from  him-and  when  it  became  clear  that  something  had  to  be  done  about  the  dog,  and  something  had  been  done-she  was  twenty-two.  On  a  date  with  a  man  she  liked  as  a  friend,  she  suggested  that  they  go  over  to  Jersey  and  drive  down  Boulevard  East.  The  man  was  new  to  New  York,  and  when  they  got  there  he  said  that  he  was  more  impressed  with  that  view  of  the  city  than  with  the  view  from  the  top  of  the  RCA  Building.  &quot;All  ours,&quot;  she  said,  gesturing  with  her  arm,  and  he,  smiling  and  excited  by  what  she  said,  had  taken  her  hand  when  it  had  finished  its  sweep  and  kissed  it,  and  continued  to  stare  with  awe  at  the  lights  across  the  water.  That  summer,  she  heard  another  song  of  Jack's  on  the  radio,  which  alluded,  as  so  many  of  his  songs  did,  to  times  in  New  York  she  remembered  well.  In  this  particular  song  there  was  a  couplet  about  a  man  on  the  street  offering  kit-  tens  in  a  box  that  actually  contained  a  dog  named  Sam.  In  the  context  of  the  song,  it  was  an  amusing  episode-an-  other  &quot;you  can't  always  get  what  you  want&quot;  sort  of  thing-and  she  could  imagine  Jack  in  [REDACTED],  not  know-  ing  what  had  happened  to  Sam,  and,  always  the  one  to  appreciate  little  jokes  in  songs,  smiling. "