 b"THE  DEMOCRATIC  CONVENTION  Monday,  Jury  12th,  Morning  I  OOKED  at  U.P.I.  Convention  Daybook.  Badly  Xeroxed.  Faint  print.  Hard  to  read.  Thought  about  going  to  [REDACTED]  Caucus  10  a.m.  Gave  it  up.  Thought  about  go-  ing  to  Briefing  for  Pages  and  Podium  Telephone  Operators.  Good  color.  The  little  people,  etc.  etc.  etc.  Gave  it  up.  Thought  about  going  to  Democratic  Women's  &quot;Agenda  \xc2\xa9'76&quot;  Caucus,  but  thought  again.  Decided  definitely  to  go  to  Latino  Caucus,  West  Room,  Statler  [REDACTED],  but  too  tired.  Monday,  July  12tH,  AFTERNOON  EMPTED  by  El  Open  House  for  Latino  Delegates-  good  chance  to  brush  up  on  Spanish  for  later  use  at  later  Latino  caucuses,  etc.  etc.  Decided  no.  Tried  to  sort  out  as-  pects  of  the  New  Populism  (Carter's  smile,  etc.  etc.,  Carter  out  of  nowhere,  etc.  etc.,  possible  danger  of  no  political  debts  to  Establishment,  etc.  etc.),  but  couldn't  focus.  Monxnpay,  Jury  12tH,  Eariy  Eveninc  UCH  more  confident.  Had  a  drink-one  of  the  new  Wild  [REDACTED]  Old-Fashioneds  people  are  tak-  ing  up.  [REDACTED]  slant.  Decided  to  do  in-  stant  book.  Follow  one  crucial  dele-  gation  through  caucuses,  etc.  etc.  Through  floor  fights.  Reaction  to  nom-  ination,  etc.  etc.  Juxtapose  with  human  interest-Amy,  Miss  Lillian,  etc.  etc.  Exhausting  even  to  think  about  it.  Monday  July  12th,  Nicht  WENT  to  Convention.  Picked  up  credentials.  Very  authentic-  seeming.  Noticed  that  credentials  said  &quot;News-Periphery.&quot;  Very  exciting  at  Garden.  Little  elec-  tronic  security  devices,  etc.  etc.  Passed  se-  curity  check,  observed  by  ten  or  twenty  members  of  the  general  public.  Mem-  bers  of  general  public  had  no  credentials.  Very  satisfying.  Decided  definitely  to  go  ahead  with  instant  book.  Maybe  on  journalists-observing  the  observers,  etc.  etc.  etc.  Media  preconceptions,  etc.  etc.  Altering  the  event.  Men  of  action  jux-  taposed  with  the  men  behind  the  media.  Reversed,  though.  Show  man  behind  the  medium  as  the  true  man  of  action,  etc.  etc.  Thoughtful  but  irreverent.  Follow  one  team  of  journalists  from  arrival  through  caucuses,  etc.  etc.  Press-room  infighting,  etc.  etc.  Print  vs.  electron-  ic,  etc.  etc.  Juxtaposed  with  human  interest-Amy,  Miss  Lillian,  etc.etc.  CARTER  News-Periphery  area  very  depress-  ing.  Tiny  concrete  bunkers.  Repulsive  green  curtains.  Clots  of  provincial  newspersons.  Worse  than  a  game  show.  Worse  than  anything.  No  drinks.  Very  pathetic  to  be  a  newsperson.  Saw  one  newsperson  take  moving  pictures  of  a  row  of  telephones.  Very  sad.  One  news-  person  got  a  quote  from  Patrick  Moyni-  han.  On  a  cassette.  Played  it  over  and  over.  Very  sad.  For  him.  For  Moynihan.  For  everyone.  Saw  a  newsperson  inter-  viewing  a  delegate.  Delegate  wearing  white  plastic  belt.  Saw  clot  of  people  training  to  be  newspersons.  So  depress-  ing  I  had  to  sit  down.  Decided  to  skip  instant  book.  Decided  to  get  drink.  Bar  full  of  foreigners.  Saw  Italians  with  leather  bags.  Saw  Frenchmen.  Nothing  lower  than  a  European  news-  person.  Every  European  had  hundreds  of  attractivecredentials.  Fabulous  tags  reading  &quot;News-Fulcrum,&quot;  &quot;News-  Podium,&quot;  &quot;News-Crucial.&quot;  Not  even  the  children  had  just  &quot;News-Periph-  ery.&quot;  Tried  to  concentrate  on  the  is-  sues-the  New  Constituencies,  the  New  Credibility,  the  New  Outsiders  be-  coming  the  New  Insiders,  etc.  etc.-  but  too  depressed.  Monday,  July  12th,  Late  NicHktTt  \xe2\x80\x9cI  ENT  to  big  party.  Spirits  wey  up.  Party  given  by  staff  of  rock-  and-roll  magazine  for  staff  of  Jimmy  Carter.  Many  people  drinking  the  new  Wild  [REDACTED]  Old-Fashioneds,  so  felt  right  in  place.  Had  insight,  wrote  it  down:  &quot;Everyone  here  (at  party  )  defi-  nitely  born  between  Munich  and  Yal-  ta.&quot;  Very  pleased  with  insight.  Decided  to  do  piece  about  war  babies  mold-  ing  the  New  Politics.  The  irresistible  fact  of  demographics,  etc.  etc.  Counter-  culture  accommodations  with  Carter,  Good  Old  Boys,  etc.  etc.  Takeover  generation,  etc.  etc.  Noticed  no  rock-  and-roll  stars  at  party.  Noticed  rock-  and-roll  critic,  though.  Critic  very  up-  set,  very  vivid.  Born  about  V-E  Day,  my  guess.  &quot;Last  chance  to  sell  out,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Last  chance  to  make  your  deal.&quot;  Afraid  he'd  steal  my  insight-war  ba-  bies,  etc.-so  didn't  say  a  thing.  THE  CAMPAIGN  SeprEmBEr  6TH  VERY  depressed  for  weeks  and  weeks,  but  much  more  secure  now.  Very  up  for  in-depth  campaign-diary  type  thing.  More  detail  than  Teddy  White,  etc.  More  thoughtful,  too.  Work  in  old  insights-war  babies,  etc.  Wanted  to  begin  right  away  at  Warm  Springs,  [REDACTED],  campaign  kickoff  (the  Roosevelt  Legacy,  etc.  etc.),  but  decided  better  not  push  my  luck,  Al-  most  attended  43616e616461ern  500  stock-car  race  in  Darlington,  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  (the  Raffish  [REDACTED],  the  Unreconstruct-  ed  [REDACTED],  etc.  etc.),  but  decided  to  make  diary  more  selective.  SeprEmBER\xc2\xae  15th  RIED  to  join  Carter's  tour  of  Hans  Sieverding's  farm,  Sioux  Falls,  [REDACTED]  Dakota,  but  much  too  far  away.  Couldn't  think  how  to  even  get  there.  Falling  behind  Teddy  White  now,  I  think,  so  a  little  blue.  SEPTEMBER  23RD  RDERED  big  dinner,  but  just  picked  at  it.  Tried  to  watch  first  debate,  but  felt  queasy.  Whole  thing  very  elusive.  Might  write  analysis,  &quot;Elusive  Politician&quot;  or  &quot;Politics  of  Evasion.&quot;  Might  not.  SEPTEMBER  28TH  HAD  important  insight  about  Car-  ter.  Wrote  it  down:  &quot;Carter  ef-  fectively  combines  virtues  of  Elvis  Pres-  ley  and  Colonel  Tom  Parker.&quot;  Not  sure  that's  right,  though.  Should  be  Glen  Campbell  and  Colonel  Parker.  But  Colonel  Parker  doesn't  manage  Glen  Campbell,  so  hard  to  sort  out.  October  6tH  TRIED  to  watch  second  debate,  but  too  tense.  Tried  to  sort  out  Presley-Parker-Campbell  image,  but  couldn't.  Wey  behind  Teddy  White.  Decided  to  do  highlights:  strong  vi-  gnettes  to  illuminate  the  whole.  Tried  to  decide  which  vignettes,  but  had  to  give  it  up.  October  22nD  ECIDED  to  write  little  essay  strongly  condemning  Teddy  White  approach.  Wrote  note:  &quot;Teddy  White  has  done  for  politics  what  Anais  Nin  has  done  for  women.&quot;  Felt  very  good  to  have  written  so  much.  Tried  to  watch  third  debate,  but  got  the  shakes  and  had  to  lie  down.  OctosEer  24t4  ECIDED  on  whole  new  angle-  for  novel.  Take  one  typical  poli-  tician,  juxtaposed  to  Presidential  candi-  date,  etc.etc.  Local  issues  vs.  national  issues,  etc.  etc.  Similarities,  differences,  etc.  etc.  etc.  Hopes,  dreams,  etc.  etc.  A  governor,  maybe.  Only  thing  is,  must  try  to  figure  out  which  governor.  October  2614  OUND  press  release  about  a  gov-  ernor.  So  depressing  I  had  to  sit  down.  These  people  live  lives  you  " b"wouldn't  wish  on  a  disc  jockey.  De-  cided  to  write  screenplay.  Long,  lonely  shots  (definitely  use  concrete  bunkers  from  Convention,  etc.  etc.).  One  man's  hopes  shattered,  etc.  etc.,  in  the  midst  of  triumph  of  another  man,  etc.  etc.  etc.  Reversed,  though.  Real  triumph  the  inner  growth  made  possible  by  de-  feat,  etc.  etc.  etc.  Human-interest  fig-  ures  based  on  Amy,  Miss  Lillian,  etc.  etc.  etc.  Could  be  big.  On  the  other  hand,  could  be  ghastly.  NovemBEr  1st  N  TER  months  of  thought,  have  definitely  decided  to  do  instant  book.  Personal  approach-the  election  from  my  hotel  room.  Very  pleased,  be-  cause  Teddy  White  won't  have  it.  NovemBEr  20th  PERSONAL  approach  won't  work  out,  because  too  grim.  Also  worried  about  right  hand.  Right  hand  won't  stop  shaking.  Can't  write  with  left,  so  very  down.  THE  NEW  ADMINIS  TRATION  January  2014  WENT  to  Inauguration.  Tried  to  focus  on  whole  new  free  spirit,  butgot  the  jitters.  Tried  to  lighten  up,  stroll  easily  in  the  crowd,  etc.,  but  broke  out  in  a  small  red  rash  (mostly  on  left  hand)  andhad  to  go  home.  Best  approach  now:  no-frills  journal-  ism.  No  gimmicks.  Just  good  strong  stuff,  Chance  to  stress  First  One  Hun-  dred  Days.  Amusing,  though-include  little  glossaryof  &quot;cracker&quot;  terms  so  Washingtonians  can  understand  Carter  team,  etc.  etc.  February  2nd  ERY  down.  Spotted  two  little  &quot;cracker&quot;  glossaries  out  already.  Must  do  something  soor.  What  about  a  sort  of  who's-who  approach?  Rosa-  lynn  Carter  so  tough  under  that  sweet  exterior,  etc.  etc.  Juxtaposed  to  Amy,  Miss  Lillian,  and  Alice  Roosevelt  Longworth.  Wish  I  knew  Alice  Long-  worth  better.  Use  tape  recorder  for  chapter  on  New  43616e616461ern  Personalities.  Racist  clubs,  etc.  etc.  Almost  definitely  have  title:  &quot;The  Reign  in  Plains  Falls  Mainly  on  the  ...&quot;-but  can't  come  up  with  last  word.  February  10th  DECIDED  best  thing  go  to  racist  club.  Went  to  door,  met  by  Bill.  &quot;Good  evening,  [REDACTED];  etc.Bill  said  club  had  to  let  Sam  go,  because  wanted  to  call  members  by  first  name.  Bill  said  doormen,  waiters,  etc.,  at  Union  League  Club  call  members  by  first  name.  Very  gripping.  Took  mental  notes.  Good  to  be  reporting  again.  Went  upstairs,  had  Wild  [REDACTED]  Old-  Fashioned.  Hand  stopped  shaking.  February  17th  EE  now  must  zero  in  on  exer-  gy,  Carter's  plan:  the  new  expec-  tations,  the  new  more  modest  life  styles.  AprIL  25th  RIED  to  focus  on  energy,  but  too  worried  about  small  red  rash.  May  6tu  EFINITELY  decided  not  to  stress  First  One  Hundred  Days  because  too  limiting.  Definitely  decided  to  forget  whole  New  [REDACTED]  angle  be-  cause  too  stale.  Definitely  decided  not  to  try  to  lighten  up  because  too  nerv-  ous.  July  15th  OW  see  must  focus  on  revisionist  theories.  New  Populism  really  New  Conservatism.  Carter  Administra-  tion  as  caretaker  government,  Carter  as  apostle  of  closed  government,  Carter  as  savior  of  Northern  \xc3\xa9lite.  Ordered  big  lunch,  but  couldn't  get  it  down.  Decided  small  red  rash  definitely  spreading.  "