 b"MY  wife  is  editor  of  a  profession-al  journal  for  one  of  the  col-  leges  at  the  university  where  I  teach.  The  people-deans,  other  ad-  ministrative  officers,  secretaries-who  work  on  the  floor  where  she  has  her  office  have  a  congenial  and  cogperative  relationship,  and  enjoy  gathering  occa-  sionally  during  lunch  hour  or  at  the  end  of  the  working  day  to  celebrate  any  of  a  variety  of  events  in  any  of  their  lives:  a  marriage,  a  departure  for  a  new  job,  a  trip  abroad,  a  birthday,  the  first  day  of  spring  after  a  hard  winter.  One  afternoon  early  this  spring,  a  former  administrator  stopped  by  for  such  a  celebration.  As  the  group  was  having  refreshments  at  the  large  table  in  the  conference  room,  this  professor,  a  man  not  given  to  personal  reminis-  cence,  began  to  tell  his  neighbor  about  a  bicycle  trip  he  had  taken  with  an-  other  student  in  1936  in  [REDACTED].  He  was  speaking  quietly,  but,  either  because  of  a  lapse  in  the  general  con-  versation  or  because  of  the  nature  of  his  story,  everybody  listened.  The  story  was  a  simple  one,  told  in  a  matter-of-fact  voice,  of  what  he  and  his  companion  saw  and  did  bicycling  through  [REDACTED]  the  summer  follow-  ing  the  remilitarization  of  the  Rhine-  land.  Perhaps  in  retelling  his  account  I  am  altering  it  in  accordance  with  my  own  feelings  and  experiences,  and  itis  likely  that  the  people  at  the  party,  the  younger  as  well  as  the  older,  did  much  the  same  thing.  The  curious  power  of  certain  stories  comes  from  some  unconscious  invitation  in  them  to  the  listener  to  participate,  to  imagine  himself  an  aspect  of  the  teller,  These  two  students,  the  professor-  to-be  and  his  friend,  had  come  to  Ger-  many  to  see  the  castles  on  the  Rhine,  the  Black  Forest,  and  the  picturesque  towns  of  the  travel  posters,  but  what  they  actually  saw  had  little  to  do  with  quaintness  or  charm.  In  every  town  the  buildingsdisplayed  swastikas  on  ban-  ners;  loudspeakers  in  every  town  square  amplified  shrill  voices  and  martial  mu-  sic;  the  major  streets  were  congested  with  parades  and  the  movement  of  military  personnel  and  equipment.  On  their  handlebars  they  had  attached  small  American  flags  to  identify  them-  selves  as  visitors;  their  bicycles,  so  dec-  orated,  became  part  of  the  parades,  were  caught  in  the  middle  of  convoys.  In  a  populous  town,  they  sat  on  their  bicycles  in  the  back  of  a  crowd  listen-  ing  to  Hitler  give  an  impassioned  speech  in  shouted  words  that  they  couldn't  understand  but  that  turned  everybody  except  them  into  what  seemed  a  single  body,  a  single  answer-  ing  voice.  Once,  they  rode  through  the  gates,  oddly  open,  of  a  camp  for  prisoners;  guards  rushed  at  them  with  rifles,  forcing  them  back.  How  do  two  young  Americans  re-  spond  to  such  nationalistic  frenzy,  to  an  evil  they  can  barely  comprehend?  In  [REDACTED],  the  towns  and  villages  nes-  tle  in  the  valleys,  are  rarely  built  upon  the  hills,  as  in  4974616c79.  Most  castles  on  the  Rhine  have  their  towns  far  be-  neath  them,  and  from  the  walls  and  windows  of  the  towers  one  can  see  col-  ored  roof  tiles  and  tiny  spires  beside  the  curving,  glittering  river.  'Those  two  boys  would  tour,  say,  some  castle;  then,  removing  their  flags  from  the  handlebars,  they  would  hold  them  de-  fiantly  aloft  and  coast  down  the  hill  into  the  town,  speeding  through  mar-  ketplaces  and  central  squares.  As  they  sped  past  the  crowds  and  the  swastika-  decorated  buildings,  they  sang  together,  as  loudly  as  they  could,  the  opening  words  of  national  songs  of  their  own  country-&quot;O  beautiful  for  spacious  skies,/For  amber  waves  of  grain,&quot;  or  &quot;Oh,  say,  can  you  see  by  the  dawn's  early  light,/W  hat  so  proudly  we  hailed  at  the  twilight's  last  gleaming?&quot;-  and,  careering  around  processions  of  armored  cars  and  troop  carriers,  they  shouted  &quot;Heil  Roosevelt!&quot;  to  the  sol-  diers,  and  then  they  pedalled  furiously  away,  up  the  opposite  hill.  Usually  they  stayed  in  a  farmer's  barn  or  camped  on  the  heights  above  a  town.  Never  that  summer  did  anyone  pursue  them,  never  were  they  mo-  lested  or  questioned,  never-except  for  that  moment  they  had  in-  advertently  strayed  into  the  concentration  camp  -were  they  threat-  ened.  As  they  sat  by  their  little  cooking  fire,  as  they  stared  at  the  stars  from  their  sleep-  ing  bags,  they  spoke  to  each  other  of  what  they  had  seen,  of  what  they  had  done  that  day.  And  so  each  day  went,  that  summer.  MY  wife  told  me  the  story  some  days  after  she  had  heard  it,  as  we  were  sitting  at  the  kitchen  table  fol-  lowing  a  late  supper.  She  was  interested  es-  " b"pecially  in  the  effect  it  had  made  on  the  whole  group  deans  and  secretaries,  young-  er  people  as  well  as  older  ones.  I  listened  intently  to  the  story  myself.  I  said  that  it  held  some  of  the  qualities  of  those  fairy  stories  set  in  far-  off  times  in  which  a  virtuous  youth  enters  a  region  of  dark  enchantment  but  is  protected  by  his  innocence  and  certain  talismans  and  magic  words.  As  we  idly  made  other  spec-  ulations  about  the  story,  about  its  relationto  dreams  we'd  both  had,  the  windows  began  to  darken,  and  the  table,  which  I  had  made  out  of  thick,  mellowed  planks  near-  ly  a  century  and  a  half  old,  reflected  the  glow  of  the  lamp  hanging  above  it.  I  was  glad  to  be  sitting  with  my  wife  at  that  table  in  that  old  farmhouse  of  ours-the  house  in  which  we  had  raised  our  three  sons,  two  of  whom  were  already  out  in  the  world,  one  editing  news  film  for  a  Philadel-  phia  television  station  and  the  other  working  the  night  shift  in  an  Ithaca  factory.  I  wanted  our  sons  to  find  ful-  fillment,  to  be  content  with  their  lives;  and  at  the  same  time  I  wanted  them  to  return  to  their  childhood  selves  and  their  childhood  innocence,  to  be  sitting  here  at  the  table  with  us.  I  had  all  the  conventional  thoughts  that  occur  to  parents,  including  the  wish  that  the  world  were  better  than  it  is.  That  was  the  effect  of  the  story  upon  me.  I  WENT  to  high  school  in  a  village  in  northern  [REDACTED],  about  fifteen  miles  southwest  of  [REDACTED].  I  could  recite  the  names  of  all  the  members  of  the  Roosevelt  Cabinet  like  a  litany,  and  I  still  can.  In  the  eleventh  grade,  I  wrote  a  paper  for  my  civics  class  in  which  I  proposed  an  immediate  end  to  the  Depression  bya  total  price  freeze,  to  be  accompanied  by  the  release  of  a  large  amount  of  currency  and  the  im-  position  of  income  and  inheritance  taxes  designed  to  prevent  that  new  money  from  ending  up  in  the  pockets  of  the  fortunate  few.  My  teacher  wrote  on  my  paper,  &quot;Well,  why  not?&quot;  I  was  living  in  those  years  with  an  uncle  and  aunt,  and  worked  evenings  and  Satur-  days  in  my  uncle's  gasoline  station,  which  sold  ice  and  hamburgers  as  well  as  petroleum  products.  I  had  a  recur-  rent  dream  in  which  President  Roose-  velt  and  Secretary  Morgenthau,  hav-  ing  heard  of  my  proposal,  came  to  visit  me  in  the  gas  station.  So  that  we  would have  more  time  for  our  conference,  my  two  guests  helped  me  with  my  tasks;  while  I  pumped  gasoline,  President  Roosevelt  made  hamburgers  and  Sec-  retary  Morgenthau  put  fifty-pound  blocks  of  ice  on  automobile  bumpers.  After  we  finished  our  discussion,  Presi-  dent  Roosevelt  smiled  at  me  and  said  to  Secretary  Morgenthau,  &quot;Well,  why  not?&quot;  Our  village  ofthree  thousand  in-  habitants  had  a  symphony  orchestra,  sponsored  by  the  W.P.A.,  made  up  of  professional  musicians  and  anyone  else  who  could  play  an  instrument.  The  players  came  from  the  village  and  other  communities  in  our  part  of  the  county.  They  practiced  in  the  high-school  audi-  torium,  and  I  sometimes  sat  in  the  back  of  that  nearly  empty  room  to  lis-  ten  to  them.  Normally,  they  played  Beethoven  and  Mozart,  but  there  was  one  elderly  woman  in  the  village  who  found  so  much  delight  in  realizing  an  old  fancy  of  hers-to  sing  &quot;Flow  Gently,  Sweet  Afton&quot;  with  a  full-size  orchestra-that  the  conductor  always  obliged,  at  least  at  rehearsals.  Her  voice  was  untrained  and  full  of  tremolo  ef-  fects,  but  what  I  remember  best  from  such  moments  is  nother  singing.  What  I  remember  best,  beyond  her  obvious  pleasure,  is  the  absolute  benignity  and  sense  of  well-being  on  the  faces  of  the  musicians  who  were  helping  her  in  the  realization  of  a  preposterous  dream.  I  suppose  an  event  of  that  sort  was  pos-  sible  only  in  the  Depression  years;  I  realized  even  then  that  it  wouldn't  have  happened  had  it  not  been  for  the  W.P.A.  But  that  it  could  take  place  at  all  affected  my  feelings  toward  myself,  my  village,  and-for  I  was  young  and  knew  precious  little  about  other  events  beginning  elsewhere-the  community  of  man.  IT  is  early  July,  the  season  of  fireflies.  Even  on  overcast  nights  the  country  sky  is  riddled  with  comets,  meteors,  flashing  stars,  gauzy  nebulae.  Fireflies  have  the  evocative  power  of  certain  aromas  and  fragments  of  tunes:  they  are  what  reminded  me  of  my  adoles-  cence,  which  in  turn  reminded  me  of  the  story  I  had  heard  earlier  this  year.  Standing  on  my  porch,  grasping  the  iron  railing  by  the  step  and  looking  at  the  fireflies  above  the  clover  field,  at  the  constellations  receding  above  the  clover,  the  fierce  stars  washing  harm-  lessly  past  my  speeding  position  on  the  porch  to  bob  and  diminish  in  the  cosmic  wake,  I  think  that  the  magic  of  our  talismans,  the  truths  that  perilously  sustain  us,  the  inviolability  of  our  virtue  are  always  a  consequence  of  the  power  of  our  imagination.  I  also  think  this:  [REDACTED]  is  roused  in  us  less  by  the  memory  of  what  once  actually  was  than  by  the  memory  of  what  once  was  possible  in  our  dreams. "