 b"EMMA  loves  museums,&quot;  said  Helena,  &quot;and  I  think  it's  good  for  her  to  look  at  things  being  still,  for  a  change,  instead  of  that  in-  cessant  jiggety-jog  of  television.  Not  like  us  when  we  were  young,  Char-  lotte-though  you  were  never  so  tied  to  the  box  as  I  was.&quot;  &quot;I  hated  watching  people  breathe.&quot;  The  sisters  were  visiting  the  Ameri-  can  Museum  at  Claverton,  in  Somerset.  It  was  [REDACTED]'s  first  visit.  &quot;Do  you  come  here  often?&quot;  &quot;Yes.  It's  an  easy  run  from  Bristol,  and  I  enjoy  buying  fancy  jams  from  their  shop.  Expensive.  But  traditional  things  are  always  expensive.  And  Henry  likes  them.  You  should  take  something  back  to  Everard.&quot;  &quot;Remind  me  to.&quot;  Emma  was  staring  into  a  quiescent  period  parlor.  &quot;That  clock  doesn't  strike,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Why  doesn't  it  strike,  Mummy?  Hasn't  it  got  an  in-  side?  Is  it  too  old  to  be  wound  up?&quot;  Other  visitors  smiled,  murmured,  seemed  inclined  to  enter  into  conversa-  tion.  &quot;Now  I  want  to  see  the  blue  dogs.&quot;  They  moved  on  into  the  quilt  room.  It  was  hung  with  pieced  and  appliqu\xc3\xa9  quilts,  brilliant  as  an  assembly  of  ma-  caws,  Emma  ran  from  one  to  another,  identifying  the  blue  dogs  in  an  appliqu\xc3\xa9  miscellany  of  rosebuds,  hatchets,  stars,  kites,  apples,  horsemen,  and  shawled  ladies  encircling  Abraham  Lincoln  in  a  stovepipe  hat,  quitting  them  for  a  geo-  metrical  pieced  design  of  lilac  and  drab.  &quot;Queen  [REDACTED]'s  Crown-that's  for  you,  Aunt  [REDACTED].  And  here's  Fox  and  Geese.&quot;  &quot;Darling!  Don't  touch.&quot;  One  would  always  have  to  be  being  patient,  thought  [REDACTED].  On  the  whole  she  was  glad  she  did  not  have  a  child.  Her  attention  was  caught  by  a  quilt  that  stood  out  from  the  others,  dominating  their  rich  vivacity  with  a  statement  of  dulled  black  on  white.  She  moved  toward  it.  &quot;That's  a  widow's  quilt,&quot;  said  Helena.  &quot;Narrow,  you  see,  for  a  sin-  gle  bed.  I  suppose  you  made  one  for  yourself,  when  your  husband  died.  Or  your  friends  made  it  for  you.  Rather  grisly.&quot;  &quot;I  think  it's  a  hideous  quilt,&quot;  Emma  said.  They  descended  to  the  shop,  where  [REDACTED]  was  reminded  of  the  some-  thing  she  must  take  back  to  Everard,  and  chose  horehound  candies.  Then  Helena  drove  her  to  the  station,  and  she  made  her  platform  thanks  and  farewells.  &quot;I  particularly  enjoyed  the  quilts,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;One  doesn't  see  enough  blue  dogs.&quot;  But  between  Bath  and  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  sat  in  a  dreamlike  frenzy,  planning  the  construction  of  her  own  black-and-white  quilt,  Built  up  from  hexagons,  and  narrow,  it  would  not  be  more  than  a  winter's  work,  once  she  had  assembled  its  materials:  half  a  dozen  exact  geometrical  hexagons;  heavy  paper,  over  which  she  would  tack  her  patches;  fine  needles  for  the  small  stitches;  a  couple  of  sheets.  The  black  would  not  be  so  easily  found-  that  lustreless  soot-black,  dead-rook  black.  Perhaps  she  might  find  some  sec-  ondhand  weeds  in  the  Chelsea  fan-  tasy  boutiques.  Or  should  she  qualify  the  white  unanimity  of  the  sheets  by  using  a  varietyof  blacks  already  avail-  able?  There  were  remains  of  the  offi-  cial  blacking-out  curtains  drawn  over  the  windows  at  home  during  the  war,  kept  to  come  in  useful,  her  mother  had  said,  and  still  kept  in  the  inherited  piece  box  from  which  she  had  pulled  fragments  of  chintz  for  the  patchwork  cushion  cover  started  for  Great-Aunt  Emma  but  never  completed.  'There  was  the  black  shawl  bought  at  Avignon;  some  black  taffeta;  some  sateen;  quan-  tities  of  black  velvet.  As  she  recalled  these  varieties  of  black,  the  design  of  her  widow's  quilt  shaped  itself  to  her  mind's  eye.  In  the  center,  a  doubled,  even  a  trebled  ring  of  black  velvet  hexagons  massively  enclosing  the  primal  hexagon  of  white  wedding-dress  brocade.  Ex-  tending  to  the  four  corners  of  the  quilt,  long  black  diagonals,  the  spaces  between  interspersed  with  star-spangled  black  hexagons  not  too  close  together,  and  for  a  border  a  funeral  wreath  of  black  hexagons  conjoined.  Dizzied,  she  gotout  of  the  ter-  minus  because  everyone  else  was  doing  so,  and  took  a  wasteful  taxi  to  the  usual  address  without  realizing  she  going  home.  was  EXT  morning,  as  soon  as  Everard  had  tapped  the  barometer,  put  on  the  indicated  topcoat,  and  left  for  his  office  (he  was  a  partner  in  a  firm  that  sold  rare  postage  stamps),  she  chose  the  pair  of  sheets  and  went  out  to  buy  the  fine  needles,  going  on  to  F.  Wilkens,  " b"Electrician  and  Household  Repairs  for  during  the  night  it  had  occurred  to  her  that  the  basic  hexagons  would  be  much  more  satisfactory  if  they  were  exact  to  measure  and  cut  out  of  tin.  F.  Wilkens,  oddly  calling  them  tem-  plates,  knew  exactly  what  she  meant,  and  would  have  them  ready  in  half  an  hour.  She  spent  the  interval  in  the  Health  Food  Shop,  buying  Everard's  muesli,  then  collected  the  templates  and  went  back  to  the  flat  in  Perivale  Mansions.  By  the  time  he  returned  she  had  assembled  most  of  the  double  gar-  land  of  black  velvet  round  the  wed-  ding-dress  brocade,  folded  it  away  in  a  pillowcase,  and  prepared  supper.  That  night  her  pleasure  in  the  progress  of  the  black  velvet  garland  was  soured  by  seeing  it  asso  much  done  already.  At  this  rate,  the  quilt  would  be  snatched  from  her  hands,  no  more  to  the  purpose  than  a  daisy  chain.  Patch  after  patch  would  lessen  her  pri-  vate  entertainment;  the  last  patch  in  the  border  of  black  hexagons  would  topple  her  over  the  edge  to  drown  in  the  familiar  tedium.  She  did  not  want  to  make  another  quilt,  or  any  other  kind  of  quilt.  This  was  her  only,  her  nonpareil,  her  one  assertion  of  a  life  of  her  own.  When  Everard  left  for  his  office,  she  hardly  dared  take  out  the  pillowcase.  While  stitching  in  the  fir  st  white  hexagons,  she  realized  the  exten  t  of  even  a  single-bed  quilt.  She  need  not  despair  for  some  time  yet.  By  midday  it  was  raining  st  eadily.  The  barometer'  s  counsel  of  an  um-  brella  was,  as  usual,  justified.  The  sound  of  rain  was  agreeable  t  o  work  to.  It  rained  .  She  worked.  Between  two  and  three  in  the  afternoon,  finding  herself  e  xtre  mely  hungry,  she  ravaged  the  larder  for  an  impromptu  meal-  unwo  nte  dly  delicious,  since  she  f  ed  on  the  ti  nned  delicacies.  The  weekend  jolted  her  out  of  her  contentment.  Two  days  of  Everard  at  home  she  was  inured  to,  but  to  waste  two  days  without  setting  a  stitch  in  the  quilt  was  torment.  She  fester  ed  in  id  leness;  she  had  nev  er  hated  his  co  mpany  more.  And  it  increased  her  exasperation  that  he  should  be  unaw  are  o  f  it.  Yet  as  time  went  on,  and  the  quilt  en-  larged,  and  weekend  s  fell  into  t  he  pat-  tern  of  her  existence  as  though  they  we  re  recurri  ng  hexagons  of  an  unassimila-  ble  material  which  she  would  presently  unpick,  her  disposition  changed;  she  was  complacent,  she  was  even  benign.  Strange,  to  think  that  Everard,  whose  demands  and  inroads  had  compelled  her  to  such  an  abiding  rancor  that  see-ing  the  widow's  quilt  had  given  her  a  pur-  pose  in  life,  should  have  supplied  this  soothing  influence,  Meanwhile,  she  went  on  with  the  quilt,  never  losing  sight  of  its  intimations  and  in  the  main  preserving  her  original  scheme-  though  the  diagonals  had  to  be  revised:  the  single  black  line  lacked  emphasis,  and  had  to  be  changed  to  a  couple  of  lines  hedging  a  band  of  white.  This,  in  turn,  involved  a  reconsider-  ation  of  the  corners.  The  solution  had  been  found  (there  was  ex-  actly  the  right  amount  of  the  black  shawl  to  supply  its  hexagons),  when  Christmas  stared  her  in  the  face-and  Everard.  She  could  not  securely  hope  that  his  seasonal  influenza  would  keep  him  cough-  ing  in  bed  and  out  of  her  way;  but  she  was  on  fire  to  get  at  the  revised  corners,  and  told  herself  that  a  little  publicity  would  be  the  surest  safeguard  of  the  secrecy  which  was  an  essential  ingredient  in  her  pleasure.  On  Christmas  Eve  Everard  came  home  to  find  her  with  the  quilt  on  her  knee.  He  glanced  at  it  warily,  as  though  it  were  something  that  might  disagree  with  him.  When  it  was  there  next  day  and  the  day  after,  he  men-  tioned  its  presence.  &quot;What's  that,  [REDACTED]-all  those  bits  you're  sewing  together?&quot;  She  displayed  it.  &quot;How  nicely  you've  done  it.  What's  it  for?&quot;  &quot;In  time  it  will  be  a  quilt.&quot;  &quot;Oh.  So  it's  not  finished  yet.&quot;  &quot;No.  Not  yet.&quot;  She  stitched  in  another  hexagon.  &quot;Do  you  make  it  up  as  you  go  along?&quot;  &quot;I  saw  one  like  it  in  the  American  Museum.&quot;  &quot;In  a  museum.  How  interesting.  Was  that  black  and  white  too?&quot;  &quot;Yes.  It's  a  traditional  pattern.  It's  called  a  magpie  quilt.&quot;  &quot;Magpie?  Magpie?  Oh,  because  it's  black  and  white,  I  suppose.  Quite  imaginative.&quot;  She  stitched,  Everard  pondered.  &quot;I  wonder  the  United  States  Post  Office  doesn't  use  these  old  designs-  " b"now  that  they  go  in  for  so  many  com-  memorative  stamps.&quot;  She  thought  of  the  blue  dogs,  but  refrained.  By  the  New  Year  Everard's  cough  was  so  insistent  that  he  had  to  give  up  taking  his  temperature.  She  foresaw  herself  stitching  her  widow's  quilt  at  his  bedside.  Instead,  his  partner  brought  a  Puerto  Rican  violet  for  his  opinion.  Finding  it  spurious,  Everard  felt  equal  to  going  back  to  his  office.  WITH  the  enlarging  days  the  quilt  gathered  momentum.  It  outgrew  the  pillowcase  and  had  to  be  folded  away  in  a  bedspread.  Each  morning  it  seemed  to  have  grown  in  the  night;  each  day  it  was  more  responsive,  more  compliant.  The  hexagons  fitted  into  place  as  if  drawn  by  a  mag-  net.  It  had  a  rationality  now,  a  character;  the  dif-  fering  blacks  superimposed  a  pattern  of  their  own,  as  well-kept  fields  do  with  the  various  tints  of  their  crops.  She  was  so  much  at  ease  with  it  that  she  could  let  her  thoughts  stray  as  she  worked-not  so  far  as  to  make  a  mistake,  though.  She  hated  mistakes,  even  those  she  could  unpick.  But  looking  forward  to  the  time  when  she  would  right-  fully  sleep  under  it,  her  mind  made  excursions  to  places  where  she  might  go  as  a  quiet  travelling  widow.  To  Lincolnshire,  perhaps,  with  its  &quot;fields  of  barley  and  of  rye&quot;  bordering  the  river-a  sinuous,  slow-  flowing  river  with  no  con-  versation,  effortlessly  en-  gulfing  the  chatter  of  Ten-  nysonian  brooks.  Then,  on  the  one  hand,  a  quiet  cross-  country  bus  would  show  her  [REDACTED]  Stump  outlined  against  the  pale  eastern  sky,  or,  catching  a  train  at  Dukeries  Junction  Station,  she  would  survey  the  Vale  of  Beauvoir.  Not  since  her  marriage  had  she  gone  beyond  the  home  counties,  and  these  had  only  been  visited  at  li-  censed  holiday  seasons:  a  dab  of  green  at  Easter,  in  August  a  smear  of  summer  with  Everard's  cousins  in  Surrey.  Meanwhile,  she  had  travelled  a  great  deal  in  theory,  studying  guidebooks  and  ordinance  maps  and  railway  guides,  even  a  list  of  bus  routes  in  East  Anglia  which  had  chanced  her  way.  The  row  of  Methuen's  Little  Guides  in  the  book-  case  on  her  side  of  the  bed  had  assured  her  in  detail  of  the  existence  of  what  imagination  left  visionary:  churches  (E.  E.,  Perp.,  restored  in  1870),  the  number  of  different  species  of  bat  in  Essex,  an  almshouse  ora  gasworks,  a  disused  bridge,  a  local  industry,  an  ex-  tensive  prospect  of  rolling  country,  a  forgotten  battlefield,  a  clay  soil,  a  sandy  loam,  floodmarks,  plantations  of  coni-  fer,  a  canal.  On  the  whole,  it  was  the  dullish  Midlands  she  preferred;  ro-  mantic  extremities,  like  Cornwall,  could  come  later.  She  was  stitching  away  at  Everard's  demise-every  hexagon  brought  it  a step  nearer-when  Helena,  who  was  in  [REDACTED]  to  visit  her  dressmaker,  came  on  to  Perivale  Mansions.  After  a  momentary  gasp,  Helena  admired  the  quilt,  now  three-quarters  done.  &quot;And  what  are  you  going  tostuff  it  with?&quot;  &quot;Stuff  it?&quot;  &quot;It  would  have  to  be  interlined  and  stitched  through  to  the  backing,  you  know.  Otherwise  it  wouldn't  be  a  quilt.  The  one  you  admired  in  the  museum  has  harps  outlined  in  stitch-  ing-I  suppose  he  felt  strongly  about  [REDACTED];  She  talked  on  about  New  England  quilting  bees,  and  left  before  Everard  was  due  to  return.  'There  was  nothing  for  it  but  to  swallow  the  shock,  be  glad  that  the  quilt  could  continue  into  summer,  and  " b"decide  on  the  stitched  design  which  should  complete  it.  Not  harps,  any-  how.  A  speedy  crisscross  would  be  about  as  much  as  she  could  manage.  For  with  the  added  weight  of  the  backing  and  the  interlined  padding,  the  quilt  would  be  too  heavy  to  handle  comfortably,  could  become  a  drudg-  ery-another  marital  obligation,  al-  most  another  Everard.  She  began  to  make  mistakes,  stray-  ing  from  the  order  of  her  design,  choosing  the  black  sateen  when  it  should  havebeen  the  fustier  black  of  the  cur-  tain  material.  Twice  she  sewed  in  a  hexagon  back  side  uppermost.  The  thread  tangled,  slid  out  of  the  needle's  eye.  When  she  came  to  re-  thread  a  needle,  she  had  &amp;  to  make  shot  after  shot  at  it,  holding  the  needle  with  a  grip  of  iron,  poking  the  thread  at  it  with  a  shaking  hand.  Her  heart  thumped.  Her  fingers  swelled.  If  I  were  sensible,  she  thought,  I  would  take  to  my  bed.  But  the  voice  of  reason  reminded  her  of  Everard's  disconsolate  fidgeting,  his  dependence  on  her  (Where  do  I  find  the  toaster?  Oh  dear,  the  milk  has  boiled  over  again!  What  am  I  to  mop  it  up  with?  )  when  she  had  rheumatic  fever.  She  was  not  in  a  fit  state  to  be  an  inva-  lid.  The  widow's  quilt,  even  if  at  the  moment  it  was  thwarting  her  in-  tentions,  was  the  more  enlivening  com-  panion.  HE  was  in  the  last  corner  now.  It  was  mid-March,  and  the  east  wind  was  howling  down  the  street  like  the  harlot's  curse,  when  the  last  of  her  misfortunes,  the  silliest  and  most  de-  risive,  tripped  her:  she  had  no  more  thread.  She  shook  some  of  the  ache  out  of  her  back,  put  on  her  thickest  coat,  eased  her  swollen  hands  into  gloves,  grimaced  at  the  barometer,  and  went  downstairs  and  out.  It  was  as  though  the  wind  had  whirled  her  out  of  her-  self.  She  was  loose  again,  the  solitary  traveller,  and  back  in  Lincolnshire.  She  took  the  narrow  road  across  the  salt-  marsh  flats  between  her  and  the  sea.  They  stretched  on  either  hand,  fea-  tureless,  limitless.  Nothing  would  gain-  say  their  level  till  the  enormous  break-  ers  reared  up,  one  driven  forward  on  another,  and  fell  with  a  crash  and  a  flump  on  the  beach.  The  wind  streamed  through  her;  she  fought  it  with  every  step,  and  was  one  with  it.  At  the  corner  of  Perivale  Street  and  Sebastopol  Terrace  a  burly  holiday,  maker  off  an  advertisement  was  blown  overhead,  exclaiming  &quot;Skegness  Is  So  Bracing!&quot;  She  had  to  struggle  for  breath  before  she  could  ask  for  thread  and  civilly  agree  with  the  shopwoman  that  the  wind  was  quite  savage,  wasn't  it.  And,  indeed,  as  she  walked  back  she  could  hardly  walk  straight.  The  wind  was  still  roaring  in  her  ears  when  she  stood  in  the  hallway  of  Perivale  Mansions,  with  the  stairs  in  front  of  her-three  flights,  each  of  seventeen  steps.  She  paused  on  the  first  landing.  The  roaring  in  her  ears  had  changed  and  was  now  loud  beats  on  a  gong.  Twice  sev-  enteen  was  twice  sev-  enteen.  She  mounted  the  second  flight.  The  gong  beat  on,  but  irreg-  ularly-thunder  to  the  flashes  of  lightning  across  her  eyes.  At  the  foot  of  the  third  flight  she  stumbled  and  fell.  She  saw  her  gloved  hands  clutch  the  air.  A  little  paper  bag  fell  from  one  of  them.  Two  reels  of  thread  escaped  from  it,  rolled  along  the  land-  ing,  and  went  tap-tapping  down  the  stairs.  Another  of  her  misfortunes.  Her  lips  tried  to  grin  but  had  turned  to  lead.  The  wind  had  blown  out  all  the  lights,  and  down  in  the  hallway  the  sea  rose  higher  and  higher.  A  seventh  wave,  a  master  wave,  would  surge  up  the  stairs  she  had  climbed  so  painfully,  thrust  its  strength  beneath  her,  carry  her  away  like  a  wisp  of  seaweed.  She  was  still  vaguely  alive  when  Everard  almost  tripped  over  her.  He  called  COAL  &quot;Help!  Help!&quot;  and  blew  the  police  whistle  he  always  carried  on  his  key  ring.  \xe2\x80\x9cTHERE  was  something  wrong  with  her  heart,&quot;  he  said  to  He-  lena,  who  came  next  morning.  &quot;It  might  have  happened  at  any  moment.  You  can  imagine  what  a  shock  it  was  to  me.  I  think  I  must  move.&quot;  He  had  not  much  to  say,  but  he  talked  inces-  santly.  &quot;At  first  I  thought  she  had  been  killed.  You  can  imagine  what  I  felt.  There  is  so  much  violence  about  nowadays-no  post  office  is  safe.  I  never  felt  easy  leaving  her.  But  it  was  something  wrong  with  her  heart.  She  was  everything  to  me,  everything,  my  poor  [REDACTED].  Where  do  you  think  I  should  go?&quot;  Helena  had  picked  up  the  quilt  and  began  folding  it.  &quot;And  there's  that  quilt.  What  should  we  do  about  it?  It's  not  finished,  you  see.  Poor  [REDACTED],  so  unfortu-  nate!  It's  a  magpie  quilt.&quot;  &quot;Magpie?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  because  it's  all  black  and  white-like  the  birds,  she  said.&quot;  &quot;I  see.&quot;  &quot;I  can't  very  well  take  it  with  me.  Yet  it  would  be  a  pity  to  throw  it  away.  Could  you  take  charge  of  it,  Helena?  It  would  be  a  weight  off  my  mind  if  you  would.  You'd  know  how  to  finish  it,  and  I  don't  suppose  it  would  take  you  very  long.  Not  that  there's  any  hurry  now.  And  then  you  could  keep  it,  to  remember  her  by.  I'm  sure  she'd  like  you  to  have  it.  It  meant  a  great  deal  to  her.&quot; "