 b"THE  battle  of  Clontarf  over,  in  which  the  Norwegians  met  de-  feat,  the  High  King  of  Ireland  spoke  to  his  court  poet.  &quot;The  greatest  deeds  lose  their  lustre  if  they  are  not  coined  in  words,&quot;  the  king  said.  &quot;I  want  you  to  sing  my  victory  and  my  praise.  I  will  be  Aeneas;  you  will  be  my  Vergil.  Do  you  think  yourself  ca-  pable  of  this  task,  which  will  make  us  both  immortal?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  My  [REDACTED];  said  the  bard.  &quot;I  am  Ollan.  For  twelve  winters  I  have  trained  in  the  disciplines  of  prosody.  I  know  by  heart  the  three  hundred  and  sixty  legends  that  form  the  basis  of  true  poetry.  The  cycles  of  Ulster  and  Munster  are  in  the  strings  of  my  harp.  The  laws  authorize  me  to  be  lavish  in  using  the  oldest  words  of  our  tongue  and  the  most  complex  metaphors.  I  have  mastered  the  secret  of  writing,  which  protects  our  art  from  the  un-  discerning  eyes  of  the  common  herd.  I  can  celebrate  loves,  cattle  thieves,  voy-  ages,  and  wars.  I  know  the  mytholog-  ical  lineages  of  all  the  roy-  al  houses  of  Ireland.  I  pos-  sess  a  knowledge  of  judi-  cial  astrology,  mathematics,  canon  law,  and  the  powers  of  plants.  I  have  defeated  my  rivals  in  public  contest.  I  have  made  myself  skilled  in  satire,  which  causes  in-  firmities  of  the  skin,  includ-  ing  leprosy.  I  know  how  to  wield  a  sword,  as  I  proved  in  your  battle.  I  am  igno-  rant  of  only  one  thing-  how  to  thank  you  for  the  gift  you  make  me.&quot;  The  king,  who  was  easily  tired  bylong  speeches,  especially  those  of  others,  said  with  relief,  &quot;I  know  these  things  quite  well.  I  have  been  told  that  the  nightingale  recently  sang  in  [REDACTED].  When  the  rains  and  snows  pass,  and  the  nightingale  returns  from  its  southern  lands,  you  will  sing  your  praises  before  the  court  and  before  the  School  of  Bards,  I  grant  you  a  whole  year.  You  will  polish  each  word  and  letter.  Re-  ward,  as  you  know  by  now,  will  not  be  unworthy  of  my  royal  custom  or  of  the  sleepless  nightsof  your  in-  spiration.&quot;  &quot;O  king,  what  greater  reward  than  to  see  your  face!&quot;  said  the  poet,  who  was  also  a  courtier.  He  bowed  and  withdrew,  al-  ready  glimpsing  one  or  two  verses,  When  the  year  came  round-it  had  been  a  time  of  epidemics  and  upris-  ings-the  poet  presented  his  panegyric.  He  declaimed  it  slowly,  confidently,  without  a  glance  at  the  manuscript.  With  his  head  the  king  showed  his  ap-  proval.  Everyone  imitated  his  gesture,  even  those  thronging  the  doorways,  who  were  unable  to  make  out  a  single  word.  At  the  end  the  king  spoke.  &quot;I  ac-  cept  your  labor,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It  is  an-  other  victory.  You  have  given  each  word  its  true  meaning,  and  each  sub-  stantive  the  epithet  given  it  by  the  poets  of  old.  In  your  whole  panegyric  there  is  not  a  single  image  unknown  to  the  classics.  War  is  the  beautiful  web  of  men,  and  blood  is  the  sword's  wa-  ter.  The  sea  has  its  gods  and  the  clouds  foretell  the  future.  You  have  skillfully  handled  rhyme,  alliteration,  assonance,  quantities,  the  artifices  of  learned  rhet-oric,  the  wise  variation  of  metres.  If  all  the  literature  of  Ireland  were  to  per-  ish-absit  omen-it  could  be  recon-  structed  without  loss  from  your  classic  ode.  Thirty  scribes  shall  copy  it  twelve  times  each.&quot;  There  was  a  silence,  then  he  went  on.  &quot;All  is  well  and  yet  nothing  has  happened.  In  our  veins  the  blood  runs  no  faster.  Our  hands  have  not  sought  the  bow.  No  one  has  turned  pale.  No  one  uttered  a  battle  cry  or  set  his  breast  against  the  Vikings.  Before  a  year  is  out,  poet,  we  shall  applaud  an-  other  ode.  As  a  sign  of  our  approval,  take  this  mirror,  which  is  of  silver.&quot;  &quot;I  give  thanks  and  I  understand,&quot;  said  the  bard.  The  stars  in  the  sky  went  on  intheir  bright  course.  Once  more  the  nightin-  gale  sang  in  the  Saxon  forests,  and  the  poet  came  backwith  his  manuscript,  which  was  shorter  than  the  one  before.  He  did  not  repeat  it  from  memory  but  read  it,  obviously  hesitant,  omitting  certain  passages  as  if  he  himself  didnot  completely  understand  them  or  did  not  wish  to  profane  them.  The  ode  was " b"strange.  It  was  not  a  description  of  the  battle-it  was  the  battle.  In  its  war-  like  chaos  there  struggled  with  one  another  the  God  that  is  Three  and  is  One,  Ireland's  pagan  deities,  and  those  who  would  wage  war  hundreds  of  years  later  at  the  beginning  of  the  Elder  Edda.  The  form  was  no  less  odd.  A  singular  noun  governed  a  plural  verb.  The  prepositions  were  alien  to  common  usage.  Harshness  alternated  with  sweetness.  The  metaphors  were  arbitrary,  or  so  they  seemed.  The  king  exchanged  a  few  words  with  the  men  of  letters  who  stood  around  him,  then  spoke  to  the  bard.  &quot;Your  first  ode  I  could  declare  was  an  apt  compendium  of  all  that  has  been  sung  in  Ireland,&quot;  the  king  said.  &quot;This  one  outdoes,  and  even  makes  as  noth-  ing,  whatever  came  before  it.  It  as-  tounds,  it  dazzles,  it  causes  wonder-  ment.  The  ignorant  will  be  unworthy  of  it,  butnot  so  the  learned,  the  few.  An  ivory  casket  will  be  the  resting  place  of  its  single  copy.  Of  the  pen  that  has  produced  so  eminent  a  work  we  may  expect  one  still  more  lofty.&quot;  He  added  with  a  smile,  &quot;We  are  the  figures  of  a  fable,  and  it  is  good  to  re-  member  that  in  fables  the  number  three  prevails.&quot;  &quot;'The  wizard's  three  gifts,  triads,  and  the  unquestionable  Trinity,&quot;  the  bard  made  bold  to  murmur.  The  king  continued,  &quot;As  a  token  of  our  approval,take  this  golden  mask.&quot;  &quot;I  give  thanks  and  I  have  under-  stood,&quot;  said  the  bard.  The  anniversary  came  round  again.  The  palace  sentries  noticed  that  the  poet  carried  no  manuscript.  In  amaze-  ment,  the  king  looked  at  him;  the  bard  was  like  another  man.  Something  other  than  time  had  furrowed  and  transformed  his  features.  His  eyes  seemed  to  stare  into  the  distance  or  to  be  blind.  The  bard  begged  to  be  al-  lowed  a  few  words  with  the  king.  The  slaves  left  the  chamber.  &quot;Have  you  not  written  the  ode?&quot;  asked  the  king.  +  &quot;Yes,&quot;  the  bard  sadly  replied.  &quot;But  would  that  Christ  Our  Lord  had  pre-  vented  me!&quot;  &quot;Can  you  repeat  it?&quot;  &quot;I  dare  not.&quot;  &quot;I  will  give  you  the  courage  you  lack,&quot;  said  the  king.  The  bard  recited  the  poem.  It  con-  sisted  of  a  single  line.  Not  venturing  to  repeat  it  aloud,  the  poet  and  his  king  savored  it  as  if  it  were  a  secret  prayer  or  a  blasphemy.  The  king  was  as  awestricken  and  overcome  as  the  bard.  The  two  looked  at  each  other,  very  pale.  &quot;In  my  youth,&quot;  said  the  king,  &quot;I  sailed  toward  the  sunset.  On  one  is-  land  I  saw  silver  hounds  that  dealt  death  to  golden  boars.  On  another  we  fed  ourselves  on  the  fragrance  of  magic  apples.  On  a  third  I  saw  walls  of  fire.  On  the  farthest  island  of  all  an  arched  and  hanging  river  cut  across  the  sky  and  in  its  waters  went  fishes  and  boats.  These  are  wonders,  but  they  do  not  compare  with  your  poem,which  in  some  way  encompasses  them  all.  What  bewitchery  gave  it  to  you?&quot;  &quot;In  the  dawn  I  woke  up  speaking  words  I  did  not  at  first  understand,&quot;  said  the  bard.  &quot;Those  words  were  a  poem.  I  felt  I  had  committed  a  sin,  perhaps  one  the  Holy  Ghost  does  not  forgive.&quot;  &quot;The  one  we  two  now  share,&quot;  the  king  said  in  a  whisper.  &quot;The  sin  of  having  known  Beauty,  which  is  a  gift  forbidden  to  men.  Now  it  behooves  us  to  expiate  it.  I  gave  you  a  mirror  and  a  golden  mask;  here  is  my  third  pres-  ent,  which  will  be  the  last.&quot;  In  the  bard's  right  hand  he  placed  a  dagger.  Of  the  poet,  we  know  that  he  killed  himself  upon  leaving  the  palace;  of  the  king,  that  he  is  a  beggar  wandering  the  length  and  breadth  of  Ireland-  which  was  once  his  kingdom-and  that  he  has  never  repeated  the  poem. "