 b"TODAY  I  have  been  particularly  candid.  I  have  expressed  candid  thoughts  about  the  Right  to  Life  movement  and  the  new  high-energy  Golf  Classics  and  the  way  some  books  which  don't  really  have  tat  much  liter-  ary  merit  are  sold  to  paperback  houses  for  huge  figures,  I  have  expressed  candid  thoughts  about  the  fact  that  the  Academy  Awards  seem  to  have  lost  a  lot  of  their  meaning  (especially  with  the  way  they  stop  the  awards  dur-  ing  the  television  commercials),  and  the  fact  that  Helen  Hayes  probably  isn't  the  First  Lady  of  the  American  Theatre  anymore  (although  she  prob-  ably  is  still  the  First  Lady  of  the  American  Charitable  Endorsement),  and  the  fact  that  my  environment  at  the  Keowa  Motel,  where  I  live,  has  a  damp  and  stegnant  side  to  it  that  is  '  evocative  of  small-time  crime  and  emo-  tional  disaffection.  Also,  I  have  issued  a  no-holds-barred  report  on  my  last  remaining  friend,  Bob  Mern,  which  will  almost  certainly  cost  me  his  friend-  ship  but  which  will,  I  am  sure,  confirm  my  reputation  with  the  public  at  large  as  a  man  of  candor.  Let's  go  right  to  the  report  on  Bob.  I  have  always  felt  that  to  keep  the  trust  of  the  public  it  was  necessary  for  me  to  be  ruthlessly  candid  in  matters  touch-  ing  on  my  private  life  and  those  closest  to  me.  In  the  past,  as  the  record  will  show,  I  have  been  almost  brutal  in  my  statements  about  my  wife,  but  since  our  divorce  opportunities  for  frank-  ness  in  this  area  have  lessened.  I  con-  tinue  to  have  many  forthright  things  to  say  about  her  syndicated  television  program,  &quot;Jean  Stapleton  Duff  ..  .  In  Touch&quot;  (which  has  been  devoted,  this  week,  to  the  Right  to  Life  move-  ment,  the  new  high-energy  Golf  Clas-  sics,  and  the  [REDACTED]-style  casual  mode  in  outdoor  entertaining,  which  is  another  subject  about  which  I  have  had  candid  thoughts),  but  that  isn't  the  same  thing.  When  it  comes  to  my  per-  sonal  life  my  most  candid  announce-  ments  now  have  to  do  with  my  friend  Bob  Mern.  The  fact  is  that  I  have  had  to  lower  Bob's  rating  twice  in  the  last  six  months.  Bob  began  the  year  with  a  &quot;BAA&quot;  rating  (&quot;Secure  Investment-  Minimum  Risk&quot;  ),  but  after  a  really  bad  first  quarter  during  which  he  was  almost  always  completely  drunk,  during  which  he  passed  out  six  different  times  on  my  bathroom  floor,  during  which  he  failed  to  pass  his  driving  test,  and  during  which  he  was  unbelievably  boring,  I  lowered  his  rating  to  a  &quot;B&quot;  (&quot;Some  Risk&quot;  ).  And  now,  after  a  second  quar-  ter  during  which  he  tried  to  pull  a  really  obvious  aggressive-dependence  number  on  me  (making  me  bring  him  his  beer  on  account  of  his  limp,  etc.,  etc.,  etc.),  I  have  released  a  statement  announc-  ing  that  I  will  not  rate  him  at  all.  Bob  will  have  a  little  bit  of  a  rough  time  as  a  result,  and  Iwill  have  to  watch  TV  by  myself,  butI  have  done  the  honest  thing.  Because  I  Aeve  done  and  said  the  honest  thing  time  after  time  there  has  arisen  among  the  public  (among  the  public  that  reads  the  rotogravures,  among  the  public  that  buys  cologne,  among  the  public  in  chronic  pain)  a  deep  trust  in  my  word.  I  live  nourished  by  public  confidence.  This  confidence  has  reference  to  me  as  a  public  figure,  as  an  artist  (I  am  Jack  Duff,  and  I  am  the  founder  of  The  Jack  Duff  Dance  Experience),  and  as  a  human  being.  Even  on  those  days  I  spend  in  bed,  even  on  those  days  I  spend  ly-  ing  on  the  floor,  even  on  those  days  when  I  eschew  all  muscular  movement,  I  find  that  I  continue  to  be  wrapped  in  a  pervasive  health-the  physical  manifestation  of  public  faith  in  my  can-  dor.  When  I  speak  of  &quot;the  public,&quot;  I  do  not  include  so-called  Important  Men.  It  annoys  Important  Men  that  I  am  straightforward  in  my  speech,  because  it  shows  them  up.  It  galls  Important  Men  that  I  don't  promise  special  treats  I  can't  deliver,  for  instance.  Certain  men  of  influence  promise  Aerial  Tram-  ways.  I  say  forget  Aerial  Tramways.  Other  men  encourage  the  anticipation  of  People  Movers.  I  say  forget  People  Movers.  There  will  be  weeping  in  the  streets  (I  say),  and  increased  incidence  of  interregional  discourtesy,  but  \xc2\xbbo  People  Movers.  In  fact,  the  report  I'm  working  on  right  now  says  that  we  are  not  likelyto  have  reliable  high-speed  elevators  for  very  much  longer.  My  re-  port  says  candidly  that  some  of  the  fabulous  new  high-speed  elevators  we  are  installing  are  going  to  be  involved  in  heart-wrenching  mishaps,  leading  to  an  investigation,  leading  to  new  ordi-  nances,  leading  to  new  safety-amenity  parameters  that  will  make  it  economi-  cally  unfeasible  for  the  high-speed-ele-vator  manufacturers  to  continue  in  their  work.  In  my  report  I  foresee  a  genera-  tion  of  painful,  ineffi-  cient,  low-speed  ele-vators  manufactured  in  Asia,  and  then  stairs.  No  one  has  to  take  my  word  for  it.  Private,  school  girls  in  good  buildings,  for  instance,  are  free  to  do  as  they  please.  It  is  my  opinion,  however,  that  private-  school  girls  who  ignore  my  warning  will  find  themselves  dragging  their  party  frocks  up  twenty-six  floors  of  fire  stairs;  it  is  my  opinion  that  they  will  arrive  late  (and  tired)  at  the  Junior  Gaiety  Dances;  it  is  my  opinion  that  no   one  will  agree  to  at-tend  the  after-parties  given  by  private-school  girls  who  ignore  my  " b"warning.  I  don't  mean  to  be  severe,  but  those  girls  ought  to  watch  their  step.  T  is  important,  I  feel,  not  to  project  a  negative  tone.  There  must  be,  always,  a  con-  structive  sideto  candor,  It  is  this  constructive  aspect  thatI  seek  to  promote.  I  now  urge  the  public  to  stress  what  I  call  the  Achiev-  able  Goals.  Achievable  Goals-so  simple  an  idea!I  believe  that  through  an  emphasis  on  the  achievable  we  can  break  the  cycle  of  fail-  ure-fantasy-failure  around  which  our  na-  tional  life  has  tended  to  carom,  and  regain  a  sense  of  purpose  and  control.  So  many  goals  are  achievable  that  it  seems  perverse  to  stress  goals  whose  realization  is  in  doubt.  I  have  some  Achievable  Goals  to  suggest.  I  suggest,  for  instance,  that  we  set  out  now  to  increase  our  dependence  on  import-  ed  oil.  This  goal  can  be  achieved  almost  im-  mediately.  It  would  be  exhilarating,  I  think,  to  achieve,  almost  imme-  diately,  agoal  with  such  important  long-term  implications.  To  move  on  to  the  crucial  housing  field,  where  we  have  experienced  set-  back  after  unpleasant  setback,  I  suggest  that  we  seek  to  imcrease  the  stock  of  substandard  housing.  I  suggest  here  a  Model  Cities  approach  which  could  seek  todispel  the  pervasive  air  of  failure  engendered  by  the  &quot;real&quot;  Model  Cities  program,  in  which  so  many  hopes  were  dashed.  If  a  Model  Cities  approach  were  adopted  we  could  draw  up  an  elaborate  plan  in  which  we  could  set  out  specific  figures  denoting  the  amount  by  which  we  intended  to  increase  the  stock  of  substandard  housing  in  Year  One,  in  Year  Two,  etc.,  etc.  Other  Achievable  Goals  programs  in  the  mod-  el  district  might  seek  to  increase  the  use  of  drugs,  and  so  on.  In  the  area  of  Social  Engineering,  I  suggest  that  we  increase  the  amount  of  violence  on  television.  I  suggest  that  we  set  up  programs  to  increase  the  number  of  aimless  people  who  loathe  their  elders,  and  I  suggest  that,  what-  ever  the  cost,  we  guarantee  to  every  Senior  American  the  right  to  a  drab  old  age.  Sometimes  (as  now),  when  I  think  of  just  how  much  we  could  do,  I  get  a  little  overexcited  and  I  have  to  sit  down  for  a  minute  and  have  a  drink  and  smoke  a  cigarette.  Now  I  set  for  myself  only  those  goals  that  I  know  to  be  completely  achievable.  I  forgo  all  fantasy.  In  the  coming  quarter,  I  plan  to  increase  the  number  of  molds  on  the  wall  of  my  sleeping  space;  to  increase  the  number  of  ap\xc3\xa9ritifs  I  have  before  dinner;  and  of  course  I  plan  to  increase  my  depend-  ence  on  imported  oil,  which,  since  it  is  a  broad  national  goal,  I  don't  really  count.  The  results,  I  know,  will  be  very  gratifying.  Sometimes,  however,  my  candor  and  consistency  are  so  over-  whelming  that  I  have  to  sit  down  and  have  a  drink  and  smoke  a  cigarette.  I  have  sucha  large  amount  of  public  trust  now  that  in  some  ways  it  is  al-  most  too  much.  I  don't  want  to  cut  my-  self  off  from  simple  human  experience,  after  all.  I  don't  want  to  surrender  my  warm  human  qualities.  The  public  doesn't  want  that,  surely.  So  I  have  decided  to  relent  in  the  case  of  my  friend  Bob  Mern.  I  think  the  public  will  understand.  I'd  like  Bob  to  come  over  and  watch  &quot;Starsky  &amp;  Hutch&quot;  with  me.  I  will  raise  Bob's  rating  back  to  a  &quot;B&quot;  (&quot;Some  Risk&quot;).  I  will  sup-  press  this  quarter's  report  and  send  him  a  notice  that  his  rating  is  &quot;B.&quot;  I  won-  der  if  he  will  call  me  back.  If  he  doesn't,  it  will  be  a  triumph,  in  a  way,  since  it  is  a  goal  of  mine  to  receive  thirty-two  per  cent  fewer  phone  calls  this  quarter  than  last. "