 b"UFOs  are  back  in  the  news,  and  it  is  high  time  we  took  a  serious  look  at  this  phenomenon.  (Ac-  tually,  the  time  is  ten  past  eight,  so  not  only  are  we  a  few  minutes  late  but  I'm  hungry.)  Up  until  now,  the  entire  subject  of  flying  saucers  has  been  mostly  associated  with  kooks  or  odd-  balls.  Frequently,  in  fact,  observers  will  admit  to  being  a  member  of  both  groups.  Still,  persistent  sightings  by  re-  sponsible  individuals  have  caused  the  Air  Force  and  the  scientific  community  to  reexamine  a  once  skeptical  attitude,  and  the  sum  of  two  hundred  dollars  has  now  been  allocated  for  a  compre-  hensive  study  of  the  phenomenon.  The  question  is:  Is  anything  out  there?  And  if  so,  do  they  have  ray  guns?  All  UFOs  may  not  prove  to  be  of  extraterrestrial  origin,  but  experts  do  agree  that  any  glowing  cigar-shaped  aircraft  capable  of  rising  straight  up  at  twelve  thousand  miles  per  second  would  require  the  kind  of  maintenance  and  sparkplugs  available  only  on  Pluto.  If  these  objects  are  indeed  from  another  planet,  then  the  civiliza-  tion  that  designed  them     must  be  millions  of  years  more  advanced  than  our  own.  Either  that  or  they  are  very  lucky.  Professor  Leon  Speciman  postu- lates  a  civilization  in  out-  er  space  that  is  more  advanced  than  ours  by  approximately  fifteen  minutes.  'This,  he  feels,  gives  them  a  great  ad-  vantage  over  us,  since  they  needn't  rush  to  get  to  appointments.  Dr.  Brackish  Men-  zies,  who  works  at  the  Mount  Wilson  Obser-  vatory,  or  else  is  un-  der  observation  at  the  Mount  Wilson  Mental  Hospital  (the  letter  is  not  clear),  claims  that  travellers  moving  at  close  to  the  speed  of  light  would  require  many  mil-  lions  of  years  to  get  here,  even  from  the  nearest  solar  system,  and,  judg-  ing  from  the  shows  on  [REDACTED],  the  trip  would  hardly  be  worth  it.  (It  is  impossible  to  travel  faster  than  light,  and  certainly  not  desir-  able,as  one's  hat  keeps  blowing  off.)  Interestingly,  accord-ing  to  modern  astronomers,  space  is  finite.  This  is  a  very  comforting  thought-particularly  for  people  who  can  never  remember  where  they  have  left  things.  The  key  factor  in  thinking  about  the  universe,  however,  is  that  it  is  expanding  and  will  oneday  break  apart  and  disappear.  That  is  why  if  the  girl  in  the  office  down  the  hall  has  some  good  points  but  perhaps  not  all  the  qualities  you  require  it's  best  to  compromise.  The  most  frequently  asked  question  about  the  UFOs  is:  If  saucers  come  from  outer  space,  why  have  their  pilots  not  attempted  to  make  contact  with  us,  instead  of  hovering  mysteriously  over  deserted  areas?  My  own  theory  is  that  for  creatures  from  another  solar  sys-  tem  &quot;hovering&quot;  may  be  a  socially  accept-  able  mode  of  relating.  It  may,  indeed,  be  pleasurable.  I  myself  once  hovered  over  an  eighteen-year-old  actress  for  six  months  and  had  the  best  time  of  my  life.  It  should  also  be  recalled  that  when  we  talk  of  &quot;life&quot;&quot;  on  other  planets  we  are  frequently  referring  to  amino acids,  which  are  never  very  gregarious,  even  at  parties.  Most  people  tend  to  think  of  UFOs  as  a  modern  problem,  but  could  they  be  a  phenomenon  that  man  has  been  aware  offor  centuries?  (To  us  a  cen-  tury  seems  quite  long,  particularly  if  you  are  holding  an  I.O.U.,  but  by  as-  tronomical  standards  it  is  over  ina  sec-  ond.  For  that  reason,  itis  always  best  to  carrya  toothbrush  and  be  ready  to  leave  on  a  moment's  notice.)  Scholars  now  tell  us  thatthe  sighting  of  un-  identified  flying  objects  dates  as  far  back  as  Biblical  times.  For  instance,  there  is  a  passage  in  the  Book  of  Leviticus  that  reads,  &quot;And  an  great  and  silver  ball  appeared  over  the  Assyrian  Armies,  and  in  all  of  Babylonia  there  was  wailing  and  gnashing  of  teeth,  till  the  Prophets  bade  the  multitudes  get  a  grip  on  them-  selves  and  shape  up.&quot;  Was  this  phenomenon  related  to  one  described  years  later  by  Parmenides:  &quot;Three  orange  objects  did  appear  sud-  denly  in  the  heavens  and  did  circle  midtown  Athens,  hovering  over  the  baths  and  causing  several  of  our  wisest  philosophers  to  grab  for  towels&quot;?  And,  again,  were  those  &quot;or-  ange  objects&quot;  similar  to  what  is  described  in  a  recently  discovered  twelfth-century  Saxon-  church  manuscript:  &quot;A  lauch  lauched  he;  wer  richt  laith  to  weet  a  cork-heild  schonne;  whilst  a  red  balle  lang  owre  swam  aboone.  I  thank  you,  ladies  and  gentlemen&quot;?  This  last  account  was  taken  by  medieval  clergy  tosignify  that  the  world  wascoming  to  an  end,  and  there  was  great  disappoint-  ment  when  Monday  came  and  everyone  had  to  go  back  to  work.  Finally,  and  most  convincingly,  in  1822  Goethe  himself  notes  a  strange  celestial  phe-  nomenon.  &quot;En  route  home  from  the  Leipzig  Anxiety  Festival,&quot;  he  wrote,  &quot;I  was  cross-  ing  a  meadow,  when  I  chanced  to  look  up  and  saw  several  fiery  red  balls  suddenly  appear  in  the  southern  sky.  They  descended  at  a  great  rate  of  speed  and  began  chasing  me.  I  screamed  that  I  was  a  genius  and  \n\n\n\n" b"consequently  could  not  run  very  fast,  but  my  words  were  wasted.  I  became  enraged  and  shouted  imprecations  at  them,  whereupon  they  flew  away  frightened.  I  related  this  story  to  Bee-  thoven,  not  realizing  he  had  already  gone  deaf,  and  he  smiled  and  nodded  and  said,  'Right.&quot;  &quot;  AS.  a  general  rule,  careful  on-the-  scene  investigations  disclose  that  most  &quot;unidentified&quot;  flying  objects  are  quite  ordinary  phenomena,  such  as  weather  balloons,  meteorites,  satellites,  and  even  once  a  man  named  Lewis  Mandelbaum,  who  blew  off  the  roof  of  the  World  Trade  Center.  A  typical  &quot;explained&quot;  incident  is  the  one  reported  by  Sir  Chester  Ramsbottom,  on  June  5,  1961,  in  Shropshire:  &quot;I  was  driving  along  the  road  at  2  a.M.  and  saw  a  cigar-shaped  object  that  seemed  to  be  tracking  my  car.  No  matter  which  way  I  drove,  it  stayed  with  me,  turning  sharply  at  right  angles.  It  was  a  fierce,  glowing  red,  and  in  spite  of  twisting  and  turning  the  car  at  high  speed  I  could  not  lose  it.  I  became  alarmed  and  began  sweating.  I  let  out  a  shriek  of  terror  and  apparently  fainted,  but  awoke  in  a  hospital,  miraculously  un-  harmed.&quot;  Upon  investigation,  experts  determined  that  the  &quot;cigar-shaped  ob-  ject&quot;  was  Sir  Chester's  nose.  Naturally,  all  his  evasive  actions  could  not  lose  it,  since  it  was  attached  to  his  face.  Another  explained  incident  began  in  late  April  of  1972,  with  a  report  from  Major  General  Curtis  Memling,  of  Andrews  Air  Force  Base:  &quot;I  was  walk-  ing  across  a  field  one  night  and  sudden-  ly  I  saw  a  large  silver  disc  in  the  sky.  It  flew  over  me,  not  fifty  feet  above  my  head,  and  repeatedly  described  aerody-  namic  patterns  impossible  for  any  nor-  mal  aircraft.  Suddenly  it  accelerated  and  shot  away  at  terrific  speed.&quot;  Investigators  became  suspicious  when  they  noticed  that  General  Memling  could  not  describe  this  incident  with-  out  giggling.  He  later  admitted  he  had  just  come  from  a  showing  of  the  film  &quot;War  of  the  Worlds,&quot;  at  the  post  movie  theatre,  and  &quot;got  a  very  big  kick  out  of  it.&quot;  Ironically,  General  Memling  re-  ported  another  UFO  sighting  in  1976,  but  it  was  soon  discovered  that  he,  too,  had  become  fixated  on  Sir  Chester  Ramsbottom's  nose-an  occurrence  that  caused  consternation  in  the  Air  Force  and  eventually  led  to  General  Merling's  court-martial.  If  most  UFO  sightings  can  be  satis-  factorily  explained,  what  of  those  few  which  cannot?  Following  are  some  of  the  most  mystifying  examples  of  &quot;un- solved&quot;  encounters,  the  first  reported  by  a  [REDACTED]  man  in  May,  1969:  &quot;I  was  walking  by  the  beach  with  my  wife.  She's  not  a  very  attractive  woman.  Rather  overweight.  In  fact,  I  was  pull-  ing  her  on  a  dolly  at  the  time.  Sudden-  ly  I  looked  up  and  saw  a  huge  white  saucer  that  seemed  to  be  descending  at  great  speed.  I  guess  I  panicked,  because  I  dropped  the  rope  on  my  wife's  dolly  and  began  running.  The  saucer  passed  directly  over  my  head  and  I  heard  an  eerie,  metallic  voice  say,  'Call  your  service.'  When  I  got  home,  I  phoned  my  answering  service  and  received  a  message  that  my  brother  Ralph  had  moved  and  to  forward  all  his  mail  to  Neptune.  I  never  saw  him  again.  My  wife  suffered  a  severe  breakdown  over  the  incident  and  now  cannot  converse  without  using  a  hand  puppet.&quot;  From  I.  M.  Axelbank,  of  Athens,  [REDACTED],  February,  1971:  &quot;I  am  an  experienced  pilot  andwas  flying  my  private  Cessna  from  New  [REDACTED]  to  Amarillo,  [REDACTED],  to  bomb  some  people  whose  religious  persuasion  I  do  not  wholly  agree  with,  when  I  noticed  an  object  flying  alongside  me.  At  first  I  thought  it  was  another  plane,  until  it  emitted  a  green  beam  of  light,  forcing  my  plane  to  drop  eleven  thousand  feet  in  four  seconds  and  causing  my  toupee  " b"to  snap  off  my  head  and  tear  a  two-  foot  hole  in  the  roof.  I  repeatedly  called  for  help  on  my  radio,  but  for  some  rea-  son  could  only  get  the  old  'Mr.  An-  thony'  program.  The  UFO  came  very  close  to  my  plane  again  and  then  shot  away  at  blinding  speed.  By  this  time  I  had  lost  my  bearings  and  was  forced  to  make  an  emergency  landing  on  the  turnpike.  I  continued  the  trip  in  the  plane  on  the  ground  and  only  got  into  trouble  when  I  tried  to  run  a  toll  booth  and  broke  off  my  wings.&quot;  One  of  the  eeriest  accounts  occurred  in  August,  1975,  to  a  man  on  Mon-  tauk  Point,  in  Long  Island:  &quot;I  was  in  bed  at  my  beach  house,  but  could  not  sleep  because  of  some  fried  chicken  in  the  icebox  that  I  felt  entitled  to.  I  waited  till  my  wife  dropped  off,  and  tiptoed  into  the  kitchen.  I  remember  looking  at  the  clock.  It  was  precisely  four-fifteen.  I'm  quite  certain  of  this,  because  our  kitchen  clock  has  not  worked  in  twenty-one  years  and  is  al-  ways  at  that  time.  I  also  noticed  that  our  dog,  Judas,  was  acting  funny.  He  was  standing  up  on  his  hind  legs  and  singing,  'I  Enjoy  Being  a  Girl'  Sud-  denly  the  room  turned  bright  orange.  At  first,  I  thought  my  wife  had  caught  me  eating  between  meals  and  set  fire  to  thehouse.  Then  I  looked  out  the  win-  dow,  where  to  my  amazement  I  saw  a  gigantic  cigar-shaped  aircraft  hover-  ing  just  over  the  treetops  in  the  yard  and  emitting  an  orange  glow.  I  stood  transfixed  for  what  must  have  been  sev-  eral  hours,  though  our  clock  still  read  four-fifteen,  so  it  was  difficult  to  tell.  Finally,  a  large,  mechanical  claw  ex-  tended  from  the  aircraft  and  snatched  the  two  pieces  of  chicken  from  my  hand  and  quickly  retreated.  'The  machine  then  rose  and,  accelerating  at  great  speed,  vanished  into  the  sky.  When  I  reported  the  incident  to  the  Air  Force,  they  told  me  that  what  I  had  seen  was  a  flock  of  birds.  When  I  protested,  Colonel  Quincy  Bascomb  personally  promised  that  the  Air  Force  would  re-  turn  the  two  pieces  of  chicken.  To  this  day,  I  have  only  received  one  piece.&quot;  Finally,  an  account  in  January,  1977,  by  two  [REDACTED]  factory  work-  ers:  &quot;Roy  and  I  was  catfishing  in  the  bog.  I  enjoy  the  bog,  as  does  Roy.  We  was  not  drinking,  although  we  had  brought  with  us  a  gallon  of  methyl  chloride,  which  we  both  favor  with  ei-  ther  a  twist  of  lemon  or  a  small  onion.  Anyways,  at  about  midnight  we  looked  up  and  saw  a  bright-yellow  sphere  de-  scend  into  the  bog.  At  first  Roy  mistook  it  for  a  whooping  crane  and  took  a  shot  at  it,  but  I  said,  'Roy,  that  ain't  no crane,  'cause  it's  got  no  beak.  That's  how  you  can  tell  a  crane.  Roy's  son  Gus  has  a  beak,  you  know,  and  thinks  he's  a  crane.  Anyways,  all  of  a  sudden  this  door  slides  open  and  several  crea-  tures  emerge.  These  creatures  looked  like  little  portable  radios  with  teeth  and  short  hair.  They  also  had  legs,  although  where  the  toes  usually  are  they  had  wheels.  The  creatures  motioned  to  me  to  come  forward,  which  I  did,  and  they  injected  me  with  a  fluid  that  caused  me  to  smile  and  act  like  Bopeep.  They  spoke  with  one  another  in  a  strange  tongue,  which  sounded  like  when  you  back  your  car  over  a  fat  person.  They  took  me  aboard  the  aircraft  and  gave  me  what  seemed  to  be  a  complete  physical  examination.  I  went  along  with  it,  as  I  had  not  had  a  checkup  in  two  years.  By  now  they  had  mastered  my  own  language,  but  they  still  made  sim-  ple  mistakes  like  using  'hermeneutics,'  when  they  meant  'heuristic.'  They  told  me  they  were  from  another  galaxy  and  were  here  to  tell  the  earth  that  we  must  learn  to  live  in  peace  or  they  will  re-  turn  with  special  weapons  and  laminate  every  first-born  male.  They  said  they  would  get  the  results  of  my  blood  test  back  in  acouple  of  days  and  if  I  didn't  hear  from  them  I  could  go  ahead  and  marry  Clair.&quot; "