 b"WHO  can  remember  now  a  pic-  ture  called  &quot;The  Doctor&quot;?  From  1891,  when  the  original  was  painted,  to  the  middle  of  the  De-  pression,  when  it  finally  went  out  of  style,  reproductions  of  this  work  flowed  into  every  crevice  and  corner  of  North  America  and  the  British  [REDACTED],  swamping  continents.  Not  even  &quot;The  Angelus&quot;  supplied  as  rich  a  mixture  of  art  and  lesson.  The  two  people  in  &quot;The  Angelus&quot;  are  there  to  tell  us  clearly  that  the  meek  inherit  nothing  but  seem  not  to  mind;  in  &quot;The  Doc-  tor&quot;  a  cast  of  four  enacts  a  more  com-  plex  statement  of  Christian  submission  or  Christian  pessimism,  depending  on  the  beholder:  God's  Will  is  manifested  in  a  dying  child,  Helpless  Materialism  in  a  baffled  physician,  and  Afflicted  Humanity  in  the  stricken  parents.  The  parable  is  set  in  a  spotless  cottage;  the  child's  bed,  composed  of  three  chairs,  is  out  of  a  doll's  house,  In  much  of  the  world-the  world  as  it  was,  so  much  smaller  than  now-two  full  genera-  tions  were  raised  with  the  monochrome  promise  that  existence  is  insoluble,  tragedy  static,  poverty  endearing,  and  heavenly  justice  a  total  mystery.  It  must  have  come  as  a  shock  to  overseas  visitors  when  they  discovered  &quot;The  Doctor&quot;  incarnated  as  an  oil  painting  in  the  Tate  Gallery  in  Lon-  don,  in  the  company  of  other  Victorian  miseries  entitled  &quot;Hopeless  Dawn&quot;  and  &quot;The  Last  Day  in  the  Old  Home.&quot;  &quot;The  Doctor&quot;  had  not  been  divinely  inspired  and  distributed  to  chasten  us  after  all,  but  was  the  work  of  someone  called  Sir  Luke  Fildes-nineteenth-  century  rationalist  and  atheist,  for  all  anyone  knew.  Perhaps  it  was  simply  a  scene  from  a  three-decker  novel,  even  a  joke.  In  museum  surroundings  classified,  ticketed-&quot;The  Doctor&quot;  con-  veyed  a  new  instruction:  Death  is  senti-  mental,  art  is  pretense.  Some  people  had  always  hated  &quot;The  Doctor.&quot;  My  father,  for  one.  He  said,  &quot;You  surely  don't  want  that  thing  in  your  room.&quot;  The  argument  (it  became  one)  took  place  in  [REDACTED],  in  a  house  that  died  long  ago  without  leaving  even  a  ghost.  He  was  in  his  twenties,  to  match  the  century.  I  had  been  around  about  the  length  of  your  average  major  war.  I  had  my  way  but  do  not  remember  how;  neither  tears  nor  temper  ever  worked.  What  probably  won  out  was  his  wish  to  be  agreeable  to  Dr.  Chau-  chard,  the  pediatrician  who  had  given  me  the  engraving.  My  father  seemed  to  like  Chauchard,  as  he  did  most  people-just  well  enough-while  my  mother,  who  carried  an  uncritical  al-  legiance  from  person  to  person,  belief  to  belief,  had  recently  declared  Chau-  chard  to  be  mentally,  morally,  and  spiritually  without  fault.  Dr.  Chauchard  must  have  been  in  his  thirties  then,  but  he  seemed  to  me  timeless,  like  God  the  Father.  When  he  took  the  engraving  down  from  the  wallof  his  office,  I  understood  him  to  be  offering  me  a  portrait  of  himself.  My  mother  at  first  refused  it,  thinking  I  had  asked;  he  assured  her  I  had  not,  that  he  had  merely  been  struck  by  my  expression  when  I  looked  at  the  ailing  child.  &quot;C'est  une  sensible,&quot;  he  said-  an  appraisal  my  mother  dismissed  by  saying  I  was  as  tough  as  a  boot,  which  I  truly  believe  to  have  been  her  opinion.  What  I  was  sensitive  to  is  nearlytoo  plain  to  be  signalled:  the  dying  child,  a  girl,  is  the  heart  of  the  composition.  The  parents  are  in  shadow,  where  they  belong.  Their  function  is  to  be  sorry.  The  doctor  has  only  one  patient;  light  from  a  tipped  lampshade  falls  on  her  and  her  alone.  The  street  where  Dr.  Chauchard  lived  began  to  decline  around  the  same  time  as  the  popularity  of  &quot;The  Doctor&quot;  and  is  now  a  slum.  No  citizens'  com-  mittee  can  restore  the  natural  elegance  of  those  grey  stone  houses,  the  swept  steps,  the  glittering  windows,  because,  short  of  a  miracle,  it  cannot  resurrect  the  kind  of  upper-bourgeois  French  Canadians  who  used  to  live  there.  They  have  not  migrated  or  moved  westward  in  the  city-they  have  ceased  to  exist.  The  handful  of  dust  they  sprang  from,  with  its  powerful  components  of  re-  ligion  and  history,  is  part  of  another  clay.  They  were  families  who  did  not  resent  what  were  inaccurately  called  &quot;the  English&quot;  in  [REDACTED];  they  had  never  acknowledged  them.  The  men  read  a  newspaper  sometimes,  the  wom-  en  never.  The  women  had  a  dark  ver-  sion  of  faith  for  private  drama,  a  fam-  ily  tree  to  memorize  for  intellectual  exercise,  intense  family  affection  for  the  needs  of  the  heart.  Their  houses,  like  Dr.  Chauchard's,  smelled  of  cleanness  as  if  cleanness  were  a  commodity,  a  brand  of  floor  wax.  Convents  used  to  have  that  smell;  the  girls  raised  in  them  brought  to  married  life  an  ideal  of  housekeeping  that  was  a  memory  of  the  polished  convent  corridor,  with  strict  squares  of  sunlight  falling  where  " b"and  as  they  should.  Two  sons  and  five  daughters  was  the  average  for  children;  Simone,  Pauline,  Jeanne,  Yvonne,  and  Louise  the  feminine  names  of  the  dec-  ade.  The  girls  when  young  wore  re-  ligious  medals  like  golden  flower  petals  on  thin  chains,  had  positive  torrents  of  curls  down  to  their  shoulder  blades,  and  came  to  children's  parties  dressed  in  rose  velvet  and  white  stockings,  too  shy  to  speak.  Chauchard,  a  bachelor,  came  out  of  this  world,  which  I  can  describe  best  only  through  its  girls  and  women.  His  frontdoor,  painted  the  gloomy  shade  my  father  called  [REDACTED]  green,  is  seen  from  below,  at  an  an-  gle-a  bell  too  high  for  me  during  the  first  visits,  a  letter  box  through  which  I  called,  &quot;Open  the  door;  c'est  mot,&quot;  be-  lieving  still  that  wot  would  take  me  any-  where.  But  no  one  could  hear  in  any  language,  because  two  vestibules,  one  behind  the  other,  stood  in  the  way.  In  the  first  one  overshoes  dripped  on  a  mat,  then  came  a  warmer  place  for  coats.  Each  vestibule  had  its  door,  varnished  to  imitate  the  rings  of  a  tree  trunk,  enhanced  by  a  nature  scene  made  of  frosted  glass;  you  unbuckled  galoshes  under  herons  and  palm  trees  and  shed  layers  of  damp  wool  under  swans  float,  ing  in  a  landscape  closerto  home.  Just  over  the  letter  box  of  the  green  door  a  large,  beautifully  polished  brass  plate  carried,  in  sloped  writing:  Docteur  Raoul  Chauchard  Sp\xc3\xa9cialiste  en  M\xc3\xa9decine  Infantile  Ancien  Externe  et  Interne  des  H\xc3\xa9opitaux  de  [REDACTED]  Sur  Rendez-vous  On  the  bottom  half  of  the  plate  this  information  was  repeated  in  English,  though  the  only  English  I  recall  in  the  waiting  room  was  my  mother's  ad-  dressed  to  me.  He  was  not  4672616e6365ian  but  native  to  the  city,  perhaps  to  the  street,  even  to  the  house,  if  I  think  of  how  the  glass-shaded  lamps  and  branched  chan-  deliers  must  have  followed  an  evolution  from  oil  to  kerosene  to  gas  toelectric-  ity  without  changing  shape  or  place.  Rooms  and  passages  were  papered  deep  blue  fading  to  green  (the  brighter  oblong  left  by  the  removal  of  &quot;The  Doctor&quot;  was  about  the  color  of  a  teal),  so  that  the  time  of  day  indoors  was  winter  dusk,  with  pools  of  light  like  uncurtained  windows.  An  assemblage  of  gilt-framed  pictures  began  between  the  heron  and  swan  doors  with  brisk  scenes  of  Biblical  injustice-the  cast-  ing-out  of  Hagar,  the  swindling  of  Esau-and  moved  along  the  hall  with  European  history:  Vercingetorix  sur-  rendering  to  the  Romans,  the  earth-  quake  at  Lisbon,  Queen  Victoria  look-ing  exactly  like  a  potato  pancake  re-  ceiving  some  dark  and  humble  envoy;  then,  with  a  light  over  him  to  mark  his  importance,  Napoleon  III  reviewing  a  regiment  from  a  white  horse.  (The  popularity  of  &quot;Napol\xc3\xa9on&quot;  as  a  Chris-  tian  name  did  not  connect  with  the  first  Bonaparte,  as  English  Canadians  supposed-when  any  thought  was  giv-  en  to  any  matter  concerning  French  Canadians  at  all-but  with  his  nephew,  the  lesser  Bonaparte,  who  had  never  divorced  or  insulted  the  Pope,  and  who  had  established  clerical  influence  in  the  saddle  as  firmly  as  it  now  sat  upon  [REDACTED].)  The  sitting-room-converted-  to-waiting-room  hadon  display  land-  marks  of  [REDACTED],  identified  in  two  lan-  guages:  Le  Petit  Palais-The  Petit  Palais  Place  Vendome-Place  Vendome  Rue  de  la  Paix-Rue  de  la  Paix  as  if  the  engraver  had  known  they  would  find  their  way  to  a  wall  in  [REDACTED].  Although  he  had  trained  in  [REDACTED],  where,  as  our  English  doctor  told  my  mother,  leeches  were  still  sold  in  pharmacies  and  babies  died  like  flies,  Chauchard  was  thought  modern  and  forward-looking.  He  used  the  most  advanced  methods  imported  from  the  United  [REDACTED],  or,  as  one  would  have  said  then,  &quot;from  [REDACTED],&quot;  which  meant  both  stylish  and  impeccably  right.  Ul-  traviolet  irradiation  was  one,  recom-  mended  for  building  up  delicate  chil-  " b"dren.  I  recall  the  black  mask  tied  on,  and  the  danger  of  blindness  should  one  pull  it  off  before  being  told.  I  owe  him  irradiation  to  the  marrow  and  other  sources  of  confusion:  it  was  he  who  gave  my  mother  the  name  of  a  convent  where  Jansenist  discipline  still  had  a  foot  on  the  neck  of  the  twentieth  cen-  tury  and  where,  as  an  added  enchant-  ment,  I  was  certain  not  to  hear  a  word  of  English.  He  never  dreamed,  I  am  sure,  that  I  would  be  packed  off  there  as  a  boarder  from  the  age  of  four.  Out  of  goodness  and  affection  he  gave  me  books  to  read-children's  stories  from  nineteenth-century  [REDACTED]  which  I  hated  and  still  detest.  In  these  op-  pressive  stories  children  were  punished  and  punished  hard  for  behavior  that  seemed  in  another  century,  above  all  on  another  continent,  natural  and  right.  I  could  never  see  the  right-and-  wrong  over  which  they  kept  stumbling  and  only  much  later  recognized  it  in  European  social  fiddle-faddle-the  trivial  yardsticks  that  measure  a  man's  character  by  the  way  he  eats  a  boiled  egg.  The  prose  was  stiff,  a  bit  shrill,  probably  pitched  too  high  for  a  North  American  ear.  Even  the  bindings,  a  particularly  ugly  red,  were  repellent  to  me,  while  their  gilt  titles  lent  them  the  ceremonial  quality  of  school  prizes.  I  had  plenty  of  English  Victorian  books,  but  the  scolding  could  be  got  over,  because  there  was  no  unfairness.  Where  there  was,  it  was  done  away  with  as  part  of  the  plot.  The  authors  were  on  the  side  of  morality  but  also  of  the  child.  For  a  long  time  I  imagined  that  most  of  my  English  books  had  been  written  by  other  children,  but  I  never  made  that  mistake  with  French;  I  saw  these  authors  as  large,  scowling  creatures  with  faces  as  flushed  with  crossness  as  the  books'  covers.  Still,  the  books  were  presents,  therefore  im-  portant,  offered  without  a  word  or  a  look  Dr.  Chauchard  would  not  have  bestowed  on  an  adult.  They  had  been  his  mother's;  she  lived  in  rooms  at  the  top  of  the  house,  receiving  her  own  friends,  not  often  mingling  with  his.  She  must  have  let  him  have  these  treasures  fora  favored  patient  who  did  not  understand  the  courtesy,  even  the  sacrifice,  until  it  was  too  late  to  say  &quot;'Thank  you.&quot;  Another  child's  name-  his  mother's-was  on  the  flyleaf;  I  seldom  looked  at  it,  concentrated  as  I  was  on  my  own.  It  is  not  simply  rhet-  oric  to  say  that  I  see  him  still-Fildes  profile,  white  cuff,  dark  sleeve,  writing  the  new  dedication  with  a  pen  dipped  in  ablue  inkwell,  hand  and  book  with-  in  the  circle  cast  by  the  lamp  on  his  desk.  At  home  I  would  paste  inside  the  front  cover  the  plate  my  father  had  designed  for  me,  which  had  &quot;Linnet:  Her  Book&quot;  as  ex  libris,  and  the  draw-  ing  of  a  stream  flowing  between  grassy  banks-his  memory  of  the  unhurried  movement  of  [REDACTED],  no  reflection  of  anything  known  to  me  in  [REDACTED]-  bearing  a  single  autumn  leaf.  Under  the  stream  came  the  lines  Time,  Time  which  none  can  bind  While  flowing  fast  leaves  love  behind.  The  only  child  will  usually  give  and  lend  its  possessions  easily,  having  missed  the  sturdy  training  in  rivalry  and  forced  sharing  afforded  by  sisters  and  brothers,  yet  nothing  would  have  made  me  part  willingly  with  any  of  the  grim  red  books.  Grouped  on  a  special  shelf,  sel-  dom  opened  after  the  first  reading,  they  were  not  reminders  but  a  true  frag-  ment  of  his  twilit  house,  his  swan  and  heron  doors,  Napoleon  III  so  cunning-  ly  lighted,  &quot;Le  Petit  Palais-The  Petit  Palais,&quot;  and,  finally,  Dr.  Chauchard  himself  at  the  desk  of  his  shadowy  room  writing  &quot;Pour  ma  ch\xc3\xa9re  petite  Linnet&quot;  in  a  book  that  had  once  belonged  to  another  girl.  NOW,  how  to  account  for  the  changed,  stern,  disapproving  Chauchard  who  in  that  same  office  gave  me  not  a  book  but  a  lecture  beginning  &quot;Think  of  your  unfortunate  parents&quot;  and  ending  &quot;You  owe  them  every-  thing;  it  is  your  duty  to  love  them.&quot;  He  had  just  telephoned  for  my  father  to  come  and  fetch  me.  &quot;How  miserable  they  would  be  if  anything  ever  hap-  pened  to  you,&quot;  he  said.  He  spoke  of  my  petit  Papa  and  my  petite  Maman  with  that  fake  diminution  of  author-  ity  characteristic  of  the  Latin  tongues  which  never  works  in  English.  I  sat  on  a  chair  still  wearing  outdoor  clothes  navy  reefer  over  my  convent  uniform,  HMS  Nelson  sailor  hat  held  on  by  a  black  elastic-neither  his  patient  nor  his  guest  at  this  dreadful  crisis,  wondering,  What  does  he  mean?  For  a  long  time  now  my  surprise  visits  to  friends  had  been  called,  incorrectly,  &quot;running  away.&quot;  Running  away  was  one  of  the  reasons  my  parents  gave  when  anyone  asked  why  I  had  been  walled  up  in  such  a  severe  school  at  an  early  age.  Dr.  Chauchard,  honored  " b"by  one  of  my  visits,  at  once  asked  his  office  nurse,  &quot;Do  her  parents  know  she's  here?&quot;  Women  are  supposed  to  make  dangerous  patients  for  bachelor  doctors;  besotted  little  girls  mustseem  even  worse.  But  I  was  not  besotted;  I  believed  we  were  equals.  It  was  he  who  had  set  up  the  equality,  and  for  that  reason  I  still  think  heshould  have  in-  vited  me  to  remove  my  coat.  The  only  thing  worth  remarking  about  his  dull  little  sermon  is  that  it  was  in  French.  French  was  his  lan-  guage  for  medicine;  I  never  heard  him  give  an  opinion  in  Engllsh  It  was  evi-  dently  the  language  to  which  he  retreat-  ed  if  one  became  a  nuisance,  his  back  to  a  wall  of  white  marble  syntax.  And  when  it  came  to  filial  devotion  he  was  one  with  the  red-covered  books.  Calling  on  my  parents,  not  as  my  doctor  but  as  their  friend,  he  spoke  another  lan-  guage.  It  was  not  merely  English  in-  stead  of  French  but  the  private  dialect  of  a  younger  person  who  was  playful,  charming,  who  smoked  cigarettes  in  a  black-and-silver  holder,  looking  round  to  see  the  effect  of  his  puns  and  jokes.  You  could  notice  then,  only  then,  that  his  black-currant  eyes  were  never  still.  The  househe  came  to  remained  for  a  long  time  enormous  in  memory,  though  the  few  like  it  still  standing--  &quot;still  living,&quot;  I  nearly  say-are  nar-  row,  with  thin,  steep  staircases  and  close,  high-ceilinged  rooms.  They  were  the  work  of  Edinburgh  architects  and  dated  from  when  [REDACTED]  was  a  Scottish  city;  it  had  never  been  really  English.  A  Saturday-evening  gathering  of  several  adults,  one  child,  and  acou-  ple  of  dogs  created  a  sort  of  tangle  in  the  middle  of  the  room-an  en-  twining  that  was  surely  not  of  people's  feet:  in  those  days  everyone  sat  straight.  The  women  had  to,  because  their  girdles  had  hooks  and  stays.  Men  sat  up  out  of  habit,  probably  thehabit  of  prosperity;  the  Depression  created  the  physical  slump,  a  change  in  pos-  ture  to  match  the  times.  Perhaps  de-  sires  and  secrets  and  second  thoughts  threading  from  person  to  person,  from  bachelor  to  married  woman,  from  mother  of  none  to  somebody's  father,  formed  a  cat's  cradle-matted,  invisible,  and  quite  dangerous.  Why  else  would  Ruby,  the  latest  homesick  underpaid Newfoundland import, have kept tripping up as she lurched across the room with cups and glasses on a tray? Transformed into jolly Uncle Raoul (his request), Dr. Chau-chard would arrive with a good friend of his, divorced Mrs. Er-skine, and a younger friend of both, name Paul-Armand. Paul-Armand was temporary, one of a sequence of young men who at-tended Mrs. Erskine as her bard, her personal laureate. His role did not outlive a certain stage of artless admira-tion; at the first sign of falling away, the first mouse squeak of disenchantment from him, a replacement was found. All of these young men were good-looking, well brought up, longing to be un-conventional, and en- tirely  innocent.  Flanked  by  her  pair  of  males,  Mrs.  Erskine  would  sway  into  the  room,  as  graceful  as  a  woman  can  be  when  she  is  boned  from  waist  to  thigh.  She  would  keep  on  her  long  moleskin  coat,  even  though  like  all  Canadian  rooms  this  one  was  vastly  overheated,  explaining  that  she  was  chilly.  This  may  have  been  an  attempt  to  reduce  the  impression  she  gave  of  general  largeness  by  suggesting  an  inner  fragility.  Presently  the  coat  would  come  off,  revealing  a  handwoven  tea-cozy  sort  of  garment-this  at  a  time  when  every  other  woman  was  showing  her  knees.  My  mother  sat  with  her  legs  crossed  and  one  sandal  dangling.  Her  hair  had  recently  been  shingled;  she  seemed  to  be  groping  for  its  lost  com-  fortable  warmth.  Other  persons,  my  father  apart,  are  a  dim  choir  mutter-  ing,  &quot;Isn't  it  past  your  bedtime?&quot;  My  father  sat  back  in  a  deep,  chintz-cov-  ered  chair  and  said  hardly  anything  except  for  an  occasional  &quot;Down&quot;  to  his  dogs.  In  another  season,  in  the  country,  my  parents  had  other  friends,  summer  friends,  who  drank  Old-Fashioneds  and  danced  to  gramophone  records  out  on  the  lawn.  Winter  friends  were  mostly  coffee  drinkers,  who  did  what  people  do  between  wars  and  revolutions-sat  " b"in  a  circle  and  talked  about  revolutions  and  wars.  The  language  was  usually  English,  though  not  everyone  was  native  to  English.  Mrs.  Erskine  com-  manded  what  she  called  &quot;good  French&quot;  and  rather  liked  displaying  it,  but  after  a  few  sentences,  which  made  those  who  could  not  understand  French  very  fidg-  ety  and  which  annoyed  the  French  Ca-  nadians  present  exactly  in  the  way  an  affected  accent  will  grate  on  Irish  nerves,  she  would  pick  her  way  back  to  English.  In  mixed  society,  such  little  of  it  as  existed,  English  seemed  to  be  the  social  rule.  It  did  not  enter  the  mind  of  any  English  speaker  that  the  French  were  at  a  constant  disadvantage,  like  a  team  obliged  to  play  all  their  matches  away  from  home.  Dr.  Chauchard  never  addressed  me  in  French  here,  not  even  when  he  would  ask  me  to  recite  a  French  poem  learned  at  my  convent  school.  It  began,  &quot;If  I  were  a  fly,  Maman,  I  would  steal  a  kiss  from  your  lips.&quot;  The  nun  in  charge  of  memory  work  was  fiddly  about  liaison,  which  produced  an  accidentally  appropriate  &quot;Si  f\xc3\xa9taszzzzzzzune  mouche,  Ma-  man.&quot;  Dr.  Chauchard  never  seemed  to  tire  of  this  and  may  have  thought  it  a  reasonable  declaration  to  make  to  one's  mother.  It  was  a  tactless  rhyme,  if  you  think  of  all  the  buzzing  and  stealing  that  went  on  in  at  least  part  of  the  winter  circle,  but  I  could  not  have  known  that.  At  least  not  consciously.  Uncon-  sciously,  everyone  under  the  age  of  ten  knows  everything.  Under-ten  can  come  into  a  room  and  sense  at  once  every-  thing  felt,  kept  silent,  held  back  in  the  way  of  love,  hate,  and  desire,  though  he  may  not  have  the  right  words  for  such  sentiments.  It  is  part  of  the  clair-  voyant  immunity  to  hypocrisy  we  are  born  with  and  that  vanishes  just  before  pu-  berty.  I  knew,  though  no  one  had  told  me,  that  my  mother  was  a  bit  foolish  about  Dr.  Chauchard;  that  Mrs.  Erskine  would  have  turned  cartwheels  to  get  my  father's  atten-  tion  but  that  even  cart-  wheels  would  have  failed;  that  Dr.  Chau-  chard  and  Mrs.  Erskine  were  somehow  togeth-  er  but  never  went  out  alone.  Paul-Armand  was  harder  to  place;  too  young  to  be  a  parent,  he  was  a  pest,  a  tease  to  someone  smaller.  His  goading  was  never  no-  ticed,  though  my  reaction  to  it,  creep-  ing  behind  his  chair  until  I  was  in  a  position  to  punch  him,  brought  an  im-  mediate  response  from  the  police:  &quot;Linnet,  if  you  don't  sit  down  I'm  afraid  you  will  have  to  go  to  your  room.&quot;  &quot;If&quot;  and  &quot;I'm  afraid&quot;  meant  there  was  plenty  of  margin.  Later:  &quot;Wouldn't  you  be  happier  if  you  just  went  to  bed?  No?  Then  geta  book  and  sit  down  and  read  it.&quot;  Presently,  &quot;Down,  I  said,  sit  down;  did  you  hear  what  I've  justsaid  to  you?  I  said,  sit  down,  down.&quot;  There  came  a  point  like  convergent  lines  finally  meeting  where  orders  to  dogs  and  instructions  to  chil-  dren  were  given  in  the  same  voice.  The  only  difference  was  that  a  dog  got  &quot;Down,  damn  it,&quot;  and,  of  course,  no  one  ever  swore  at  me.  This  overlapping  in  one  room  of  French  and  English,  of  Catholic  and  P  rotestant-my  parents'  way  of  being,  and  so  to  me  life  itself-was  as  un-  likely,  as  unnatural  to  the  [REDACTED]  climate  asa  school  of  tropical  fish.  Only  later  would  I  discover  that  most  other  people  simply  floated  in  mossy  little  ponds  labelled  &quot;French  and  Catholic&quot;  or  &quot;English  and  Protestant,&quot;  never  wondering  what  it  might  be  like  to  step  ashore;  or  wondering,  perhaps,  but  weighing  up  the  danger.  To  be  out  of  a  pond  is  tobe  in  unmapped  terri-  tory.  The  earth  might  be  flat;  you  could  fall  over  the  edge  quite  easily.  My  parents  and  their  friends  were,  in  their  way,  explorers.  They  had  in  com-  mon  a  fear  of  being  bored,  which  is  a  fear  one  can  afford  to  nourish  in  times  of  prosperity  and  peace.  It  makes  for  the  most  ruthless  kind  of  exclusiveness,  based  as  it  is  on  the  belief  that  anyone  can  be  the  richest  of  this  or  cleverest  of  that  and  still  be  the  dullest  dog  that  ever  barked.  I  wince  even  now  re-  membering  those  wretched  once-only  guests  who  were  put  on  trial  for  a  Saturday  night  and  unanimously  con-  demned.  This  heartlessness  apart,  the  winter  circle  shared  an  outlook,  a  kind  of  humor,  a  certain  vocabulary  of  the  mind.  No  one  made  any  of  the  standard  [REDACTED]  statements,  such  as  &quot;What  a  lot  of  books  you've  got!  Don't  tell  me  you've  read  them,&quot;  or  &quot;I  hear  you're  some  kind  of  artist.  What  doyou  really  do?&quot;  Explorers  like  Dr.  Chauchard  and  Mrs.  Erskine  and  my  mother  and  the  rest  recognized  each  other  on  sight;  the  recognition  cut  through  disguisements  of  class,  pro-  fession,  religion,  language,  and  even  what  polltakers  call  &quot;other  interests.&quot;  Once  you  have  jumped  out  of  a  social  enclosure,  your  eye  is  bound  to  be  on  a  real,  a  geographical  elsewhere;  theirs  seemed  to  consist  of  a  few  cities  of  Europe  with  agreeable-sounding  names  like  [REDACTED]  and  4974616c79.  The  United  [REDACTED]  consisted  only  of  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED]  then.  Adults  went  to  Flori-  da  for  therapeutic  reasons-for  chronic  bronchitis,  to  recover  from  operations,  for  the  sake  of  mysterious  maladies  that  had  no  names  and  were  called  in  obituaries  &quot;a  long  illness  bravely  borne.&quot;  [REDACTED]  seemed  to  be  an  ele-  gant  little  republic  with  its  own  par-  liament  and  flag.  To  English  Mon-  treal,  cocooned  in  that  other  language  nobody  bothered  to  learn,  the  rest  of  the  continent,  [REDACTED]  included,  barely  existed;  travellers  would  disembark  after  long,  sooty  train  trips  expressing  relief  to  be  in  the  only  city  where  there  were  decent  restaurants  and  well-  dressed  women  and  where  proper  English  could  be  heard.  Elsewhere,  then,  became  other  people,  and  little " b"groups  would  form  where  friends,  to  the  tune  of  vast  mutual  admiration,  could  find  a  pleasing  remoteness  in  each  other.  They  resembled,  in  their  yearnings,  in  their  clinging  together  as  a  substitute  for  motion,  in  their  crav-  ing  for  &quot;someone  to  talk  to,&quot;  the  kind  of  marginal  social  clans  you  find  today  in  the  capitals  of  Eastern  Europe.  WAS  in  the  dining  room  cutting  up  magazines.  My  mother  brought  her  coffee  cup  in,  sat  down,  and  said,  &quot;Promise  me  you  will  never  be  caught  in  a  situation  where  you  have  to  com-  pete  with  a  younger  woman.&quot;  She  must  have  been  twenty-six  at  the  very  most;  Mrs.  Erskine  was  well  over  thirty.  I  suppose  she  was  apprais-  ing  the  amount  of  pickle  Mrs.  Erskine  was  in.  They  had  become  rivals.  With  her  pale  braids,  her  stately  figure,  her  eyes  the  color  of  a  stoneware  teapot,  Mrs.  Erskine  seemed  to  me  like  a  white  statue  with  features  painted  on.  I  had  heard  my  mother  praising  her  beauty,  but  for  a  child  she  was  too  large,  too  still.  &quot;Age  has  its  points,&quot;  my  mother  went  on.  &quot;The  longer  your  life  goes  on,  the  more  chance  it  has  to  be  interesting.  Promise  me  that  when  you're  thirty  you'll  have  a  lot  to  look  back  on.&quot;  My  mother  hadon  her  side  her  comparative  youth,  her  quickness,  her  somewhat  giddy  intelligence.  She  had  been  married,  as  she  said,  &quot;for  ever  and  ever&quot;  and  was  afraid  nothing  would  ever  happen  to  her  again.  Mrs.  Erskine's  chief  advantage  over  my  mother-being  unmarried  and  avail-  able-was  matched  by  an  enviable  biography.  &quot;Ah,  don't  ask  me  for  my  life's  story  [REDACTED];  she  would  cry,  set-  tling  back  to  tell  it.  When  the  others  broke  into  that  sighing,  singing  recital  of  cities  they  went  in  for,  repeating  strings  of  names  that  sounded  like  sleigh  bells  (4974616c79,  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  4974616c79),  Mrs.  Erskine  would  narrow  her  stoneware  eyes  and  annihilate  my  mother  with  &quot;But  [REDACTED],  I've  been  to  all  those  places,  I've  seem  all  those  people.&quot;  What,  indeed,  hadn't  she  seen-crown  princes  dragged  out  of  Rolls-Royces  by  cursing  mobs,  duch-  esses  clutching  their  tiaras  while  being  raped  by  anarchists,  strikers  in  [REDACTED]  kicking  innocent  little  Border  terriers.  &quot;.  .  .  And  as  for  the  Hungarians  and  that  B\xc3\xa9la  Kun,  let  me  tell  you  ...  tore  the  uniforms  right  off  the  Red  Cross  nurses  ...  made  them  dance  the  [REDACTED]  naked  on  top  of  street-  cars  ...&quot;  &quot;Linnet,  wouldn't  you  be  better  off  in  your  room?&quot;  The  fear  of  the  horde  was  in  all  of them;  it  haunted  even  their  jokes.  &quot;Bolshevik&quot;  was  now  &quot;Bolshie,&quot;  to  make  it  harmless.  Petrograd  had  been  their  early  youth;  the  Red  years  just  after  the  war  were  still  within  earshot.  They  dreaded  yet  seemed  drawn  to  tales  of  conspiracy  and  enormous  might.  The  English  among  them  were  the  first  generation  to  havebeen  raised  on  &quot;'The  Wind  in  the  Willows.&quot;  Their  own  Wild  Wood  was  a  dark  political  mys-  tery;  its  rude  inhabitants  were  still  to  be  tamed.  What  was  needed  was  a  leader,  a  Badger.  But  when  a  Badger  occurred  they  mistrusted  him,  too;  my  mother  had  impressed  on  me  early  that  Mussolini  was  a  &quot;bad,  wicked  man.&quot;  Fortunate  Mrs.  Erskine  had  seen  &quot;&quot;those  people&quot;  from  legation  windows;  she  had,  in  another  defeat  for  my  mother,  been  married  twice,  each  time  to  a  diplomat.  The  word  &quot;diplomat&quot;  had  greater  cachet  then  than  it  has  now.  Earlier  in  the  century  a  diplo-  mat  was  believed  to  have  attended  uni-  versities  in  more  than  one  country,  to  have  two  or  three  languages  at  his  dis-  posal  and  some  slender  notion  of  ge-  ography  and  history.  He  could  read  and  write  quite  easily,  had  probably  been  born  in  wedlock,  possessed  tact  and  discretion,  and  led  an  exemplary  private  life.  Obviously  there  were  no  more  of  these  paragons  then  than  there  might  be  now,  but  fewer  were  needed,  because  there  were  only  half  as  many  capitals.  Those  who  did  exist  spun  round  and  round  the  world,  used  for  all  they  were  worth,  until  they  became  like  those  coats  that  outlast  their  but-  tons,  linings,  and  pockets:  your  diplo-  mat,  recalled  from  [REDACTED],  by  now  a  mere  warp  and  woof,  would  be  given  a  new  silk  lining,  bone  buttons,  have  his  collar  turned,  and,  after  a  quick  reading  of  Norse  myths,  would  be  shipped  to  Scandinavia.  Mrs.  Erskine,  twice  wedded  to  examples  of  these  freshened  garments,  had  been  every-  where-everywhere  my  mother  longed  to  be.  &quot;My  life,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Erskine.  &quot;Ah,  [REDACTED],  don't  ask  me  to  tell  you  everything-you'd  never  believe  it!&quot;  " b"My  mother  asked,  and  believed,  and  died  in  her  heart  along  with  Mrs.  Erskine's  first  husband,  a  Mr.  Spar-  row,  shot  to  death  in  [REDACTED]  by  a  luna-  tic  Russian  refugee.  (Out  of  the  de-  cency  of  his  nature  Mr.  Sparrow  had  helped  the  refugee's  husband  emigrate  accompanied  by  a  woman  Mr.  Spar-  row  had  taken  to  be  the  Russian  man's  wife.)  In  the  hours  that  preceded  his  &quot;going,&quot;  as  Mrs.  Erskine  termed  his  death,  Mr.  Sparrow  had  turned  into  a  totally  other  person,  quite  common  and  gross.  She  had  seen  exactly  how  he  would  rise  from  the  dead  for  his  next  incarnation.  Shehad  said,  &quot;Now  then,  Alfred,  I  think  it  has  been  a  blissful  marriage  but  perhaps  not  blissful  enough.  As  I  am  the  best  part  of  your  karma,  we  are  going  to  start  all  over  again  in  another  existence.&quot;  Mr.  Spar-  row,  in  his  new  coarse,  uneducated  voice,  replied,  &quot;Believe  you  me,  Bimbo,  if  I  see  you  in  another  world,  this  time  I'm  making  a  detour.&quot;  His  last  words-not  what  every  woman  hopes  to  hear,  probably,  but  nothing  in  my  mother's  experience  could  come  ankle-  high  to  having  a  husband  assassinated  in  [REDACTED]  by  a  crazy  Russian.  Mr.  Erskine,  the  second  husband,  was  not  quite  so  interesting,  for  he  merely  &quot;drank  and  drank  and  dZramk,&quot;  and  finally,  unwittingly,  provided  grounds  for  divorce.  Since  in  those  days  adultery  was  the  only  acceptable  grounds,  the  divorce  ended  his  ambitions  and  trans-  formed  Mrs.  Erskine  into  someone  d\xc3\xa9class\xc3\xa9e;  it  was  not  done  for  a  wom-  an  to  spoil  a  man's  career,  and  it  was  taken  for  granted  that  no  man  ever  ruined  his  own.  I  am  certain  my  moth-  er  did  not  see  Mr.  Sparrow  as  an  ass  and  Mr.  Erskine  as  a  soak.  They  were  men  out  of  novels-half  diplomat,  half  secret  agent.  The  natural  progress  of  such  men  was  needed  to  drag  women  out  ofthe  dullness  that  seemed  to  be  woman's  fate.  There  was  also  the  matter  of  Mrs.  Erskine's  French:  my  mother  could  read  and  speak  it  but  had  nothing  of  her  friend's  intolerable  fluency.  Nor  could  my  mother  compete  with  her  special  status  as  the  only  English  and  Protestant  girl  of  her  generation  to  have  attended  French  and  Catholic  schools.  She  had  spent  ten  years  with  the  Ursulines  in  [REDACTED]  City  (lan-  guages  took  longer  to  learn  in  those  days,  when  youwere  obliged  to  start  by  memorizing  all  the  verbs)  and  had  emerged  with  the  chic  little  Ursuline  lisp.  &quot;Tell  me  again,&quot;  my  entranced  mother  would  ask.  &quot;How  do  you  say  (squab  stuffed  with  sage  dressing?&quot;  &quot;[REDACTED],  I've  told  you  and  told  you.  'Pouthin  farthi  au  thauge.?  &quot;  &quot;Thankth,&quot;  said  my  mother.  Such  was  the  humor  of  that  period.  For  a  long  time  I  would  turn  over  like  samples  of  dress  material  the  rea-  sons  why  I  was  sent  to  a  school  where  by  all  the  rules  of  the  world  we  lived  in  Idid  not  belong.  A  sample  that  nearly  matches  is  my  mother's  desire  to  tease  Mrs.  Erskine,  perhaps  to  overtake  her  through  me:  if  she  had  been  unique  in  her  generation,  then  I  would  be  in  mine.  Unlikely  as  it  sounds  today,  I  be-  lieve  that  I  was.  At  least  I  have  never  met  another,  just  as  no  French  Cana-  dian  woman  of  my  period  can  recall  having  sat  in  a  classroom  with  any  oth-  er  English-speaking  Protestant  disguised  in  convent  uniform.  Mrs.  Erskine,  ris  ing  to  the  tease,  warned  that  convents  had  gone  downhill  since  the  war  and  that  the  appalling  French  I  spoke  would  " b"be  a  handicap  in  4974616c79,  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  4974616c79;  if  the  Ursuline  French  of  Que-  bec  City  was  the  best  in  the  world  after  Tours,  43616e616461French  was  just  barely  a  language.  How  could  my  mother,  so  quick  and  sharp  usually,  have  been  drawn  in  by  this?  For  a  day  or  two  my  parents  ac-  tually  weighed  the  advantages  of  send-  ing  their  very  young  daughter  miles  away,  for  no  good  reason.  Why  not  even  to  [REDACTED]?  &quot;You  know  perfectly  well  why  not.  Because  we  can't  afford  it.  Not  that  or  anything  like  it.&quot;  Leaning  forward  in  her  chair  as  if  words  alone  could  not  convince  her  listener,  more  like  my  mother  than  herself  at  this  moment,  Mrs.  Erskine  with  her  fingertips  to  her  cheek,  the  other  hand  held  palm  outward,  cried,  &quot;Ah,  Angus,  don't  ask  me  for  my  life's  story  now!&quot;  This  to  my  father,  who  barely  knew  other  people  had  lives.  My  father  made  this  mysterious  an-  swer:  &quot;Yes,  4672616e6365s,  I  do  see  what  you  mean,  but  I  have  a  family,  and  once  you've  got  children  you're  never  quite  so  free.&quot;  There  was  only  one  child,  of  course,  and  not  often  there,  but  in  my  parents'  minds  and  by  some  miracle  of  fertility  they  had  produced  a  whole  tribe.  At  any  second  this  tribe  might  rampage  through  the  house,  scribbling  on  the  wallpaper,  tearing  up  books,  scratch-  ing  gramophone  records  with  a  stolen  diamond  brooch,  They  dreaded  mis-  chief  so  much  that  I  can  only  suppose  them  to  have  been  quite  disgraceful  children.  &quot;What's  Linnet  up  to?  She's  aw-  fully  quiet.&quot;  &quot;Sounds  suspicious.  Better  go  and  look.&quot;  I  would  be  found  reading  or  paint-  ing  or  &quot;building,&quot;  which  meant  the  elaboration  of  a  foreign  city  called  Marigold  that  spread  and  spread  until  it  took  up  a  third  of  my  room  and  had  to  be  cleared  away  when  my  back  was  turned,  upon  which,  as  relentless  asa  colony  of  beavers,  I  would  start  build-  ing  again.  To  a  visitor  Marigold  was  a  slum  of  empty  boxes,  serving  trays,  bottles,  silver  paper,  overturned  chairs,  but  these  were  streets  and  houses,  churches  and  convents,  restaurants  and  railway  stations.  The  citizens  of  Mari-  gold  were  cut  out  of  magazines:  Gloria  Swanson  was  the  Mother  Superior,  Herbert  Hoover  a  convent  gardener.  Entirely  villainous,  they  did  theirplot-  ting  and  planning  in  an  empty  cigar  box.  Whatever  I  was  doing,  I  would  be  told  to  do  something  else  immediately:  I  think  they  had  both  been  brought  up  that  way.  &quot;Go  out  and  play  in  the  snow&quot;  was  a  frequent  interruption.  Parents  in  bitter  climates  have  a  fixed  idea  about  driving  children  out  to  be  frozen.  There  was  one  sunken  hour  on  January  afternoons,  just  before  the  street  lamps  were  lighted,  that  was  the  grey  of  true  wretchedness,  as  if  one's  heart  and  stomach  had  turned  into  the  same  dull,  cottony  stuff  as  the  sky;  it  was  attached  to  a  feeling  of  loss,  of  helpless  sadness,  unknown  to  children  in  other  latitudes.  I  was  home  weekends  but  by  no  means  every  weekend.  Friday  night  was  given  to  spoiling  and  rejoicing,  but  on  Saturday  I  would  hear  &quot;When  does  she  go  back?&quot;  &quot;Not  till  tomorrow  night.&quot;  Ruby,  the  homesick  offshore  import,  sometimes  sat  in  my  room,  just  for  company.  She  turned  the  radiator  on  so  that  you  saw  a  wisp  of  steam  from  the  overflow  tap.  A  wicker  basket  of  mending  was  on  her  lap;  she  wiped  her  eyes  on  my  father's  socks.  I  was  not  allowed  to  say  to  anyone  &quot;Go  away,&quot;  or  anything  like  it.  I  heard  her  sniffles,  herlow,  muttered  grievances.  Then  she  emerged  from  her  impene-  trable  cloud  of  Newfoundland  gloom  to  take  an  interest  in  the  life  of  Man-  gold.  She  did  not  get  down  on  the  floor  or  in  the  way,  but  from  her  chair  sug-  gested  some  pretty  good  plots.  Ruby  was  the  inspirer  of  &quot;The  Insane  Step-  mother,&quot;  &quot;The  Rich,  Selfish  Cousins,&quot;  &quot;''The  Death  from  Croup  of  Baby  Sister&quot;  (&quot;Is  her  face  blue  yet?&quot;  &quot;No;  in  a  minute&quot;  ),  and  &quot;The  Broken  En-  agement,&quot;  with  its  cast  of  three-re-  gag  &gt;  jected  maiden,  fickle  lover,  and  cha-  peron.  Paper  dolls  didthe  acting,  the  voices  were  ours.  Ruby  played  the  cast-  off  fianc\xc3\xa9e  from  the  heart:  &quot;Don't  chew  men  ever  know  what  chew  want?&quot;  Chaperon  was  a  fine  bossy  part:  &quot;That's  enough,  now.  Sit  down;  I  said,  down.&quot;  My  parents  said,  &quot;What  does  she  see  in  Ruby?&quot;  They  were  cross  and  jealous.  The  jealousness  was  real.  They  did  not  drop  their  voices  to  say  &quot;When  does  she  go  back?&quot;  but  were  alert  to  signs  of  disaffection,  and  offended  because  I  did  not  crave  their  company  every  minute.  Once,  when  Mrs.  Erskine,  a  bit  of  a  fool  probably,  asked,  &quot;Who  do  you  love  best,  your  father  or  your  mother?&quot;  and  I  ap-  parently  (I  have  no  memory  of  it)  answered,  &quot;Oh,  I'm  not  really  dying  about  anybody,&quot;  it  was  recalled  to  me  for  a  long  time,  as  if  I  had  set  fire  to  the  curtains  or  spat  on  the  Union  Jack.  THINK  of  your  unfortunate  parents,&quot;  Dr.  Chauchard  had  said  in  the  sort  of  language  that  had  no  meaning  to  me,  though  I  am  sure  it  was  authentic  to  him.  When  he  died  and  I  read  his  obit,  uary,I  saw  there  had  been  still  an-  other  voice.  I  was  twenty  and  had  not  seen  him  since  the  age  of  nine.  &quot;'The  Doctor&quot;  and  the  red-covered  books  had  been  lost  even  before  that,  when  during  a  major  move  from  [REDACTED]  to  a  house  in  the  country  a  number  of  things  that  belonged  to  me  and  that  my  parents  were  tired  of  seeing  disap-  peared.  There  were  three  separate  death  no-  tices,  as  if  to  affirm  that  Chauchard  had  been  three  men.  All  three  were  in  a  French  newspaper;  he  neither  lived  nor  " b"died  in  English.  The  first  was  a  jumble  of  family  names  and  syntax:  &quot;After  a  serene  and  happy  life  it  has  pleased  our  Lord  to  send  for  the  soulof  his  faith-  ful  servant  Raoul  Etienne  Chauchard,  piously  deceased  in  his  native  city  in  his  fifty-first  year  after  a  short  illness  comforted  by  the  sacraments  of  the  Church.&quot;  'There  followed  a  few  par-  ticulars-the  date  and  place  of  the  funeral,  and  the  names  and  addresses  of  the  relatives  making  the  announce-  ment.  The  exact  kinship  of  each  was  mentioned:  sister,  brother-in-law,  un-  cle,  nephew,  cousin,  second  cousin.  The  second  obituary,  somewhat  longer,  had  been  published  by  the  medi-  cal  association  he  belonged  to;  it  de-  scribed  all  the  steps  and  stages  of  his  career.  'There  were  strings  of  initials  denoting  awards  and  honors,  ending  with:  &quot;Dr.  Chauchard  had  also  been  granted  the  Medal  of  Epidemics  (Bel-  gium).&quot;  Beneath  this  came  the  third  notice:  &quot;The  Arts  and  Letters  Society  of  [REDACTED]  announces  the  irreparable  loss  of  one  of  its  founder  members,  the  poet  R.  E.  Chauchard.&quot;  R.E.  had  published  six  volumes  of  verse,  a  book  of  critical  essays,  and  a  work  referred  toas  &quot;the  immortal  'P rogress,'  &quot;  which  did  not  seem  to  fall  into  a  category  or,  perhaps,  was  too  well  known  to  readers  to  need  identification.  That  third  notice  was  an  earthquake,  the  collapse  of  the  cities  we  build  over  the  past  to  cover  seams  and  cracks  we  cannot  account  for.  He  must  have  been  writing  when  my  par-  ents  knew  him.  Why  they  neglected  to  speak  of  itis  something  too  shameful  to  dwell  on;  he  probably  never  mentioned  it,  knowing  they  would  believe  it  impossible.  French  books  were  from  [REDACTED];  English  books  from  [REDACTED]  or  the  United  [REDACTED].  It  would  not  have  entered  their  minds  that  the  languages  they  heard  spo-  ken  around  them  could  be  written,  too.  I  met  by  accident  years  after  Dr.  Chauchard's  death  one  of  Mrs.Er-  skine's  ex-minnesingers,  now  an  eld-  erly  bachelor.  His  name  was  Louis.  He  had  never  heard  of  Paul-Armand,  not  even  by  rumor.  He  had  not  known  my  parents  and  was  certain  he  had  never  accompanied  Dr.  Chauchard  and  Mrs.  Erskine  to  our  house.  He  said  that  when  he  met  these  two  he  had  been    fresh  from  a  seminary,  aged  about  nineteen,  determined  to  live  a  life  of  ease  and  pleasure  but  not  sure  how  to  begin.  Mrs.  Erskine  had  by  then  bought  and  converted  a  farmhouse  south  of  [REDACTED],  where  she  wove  carpets,  hooked  rugs,  scraped  and  waxed  old  tables,  kept  bees,  and  bottled  tons  of  pickled  beets,  preparing  for  some  dark  proletarian  future  should  the  mob-the  horde,&quot;those  people&quot;-  take  over  after  all.  Louis  knew  the  doctor  only  as  the  poet  R.E.  of  the  third  notice.  He  hadno  knowledge  of  the  Medal  of  Epidemics  ([REDACTED])  and  could  not  explain  it  to  me.  I  had  found  &quot;Progress&quot;  by  then,  which  turned  out  to  be  R.E.'s  diary.  I  could  " b"notput  faces  to  the  X,  Y,  and  Z  that  covered  real  names,  nor  could  I  dis-  cover  any  trace  of  my  parents,  let  alone  of  ma  ch\xc3\xa9re  petite  Linnet.  There  were  long  thoughts  about  Mozart-people  like  that.  Louis  told  me  of  walking  with  Mrs.  Erskine  along  a  snowy  road  close  to  her  farmhouse,  she  in  a  fur  cape  that  came  down  to  her  boot  tops  and  a  fur  bonnet  that  hid  her  braided  hair.  She  talked  about  her  unusual  life  and  her  two  husbands  and  about  what  she  now  called  &quot;the  predicament.&quot;  She  told  him  how  she  had  never  been  asked  to  meet  Madame  Chauchard  more  and  how  she  had  slowly  come  to  realize  that  R.E.  would  never  marry.  She  spoke  of  people  who  had  drifted  through  the  predicament,  my  mother  among  them,  not  singling  her  out  as  someone  im-  portant,  just  as  a  wisp  of  cloud  on  the  edge  of  the  sky.  &quot;Poor  [REDACTED]&quot;  was  how  Mrs.  Erskine  described  the  thin  little  target  on  which  she  had  once  trained  her  biggest  guns.  Yet  &quot;poor  [REDACTED]&quot;-not  even  an  X  in  the  diary,  finally-had  once  been  the  heart  of  the  play.  The  plot  must  have  taken  a  full  turning  after  she  left  the  stage.  Louis  became  a  new  young  satellite,  content  to  circle  the  powerful  stars,  to  keep  an  eye  on  the  predicament,  which   seemed  to  him  flaming,  sulphurous.  No-  body  ever  told  him  what  had  taken  place  in  the  first  and  second  acts.  Walking,  he  and  Mrs.  Erskine  came  to  a  railway  track  quitefar  from  houses,  and  she  turned  to  Louis  and  opened  the  fur  cloak  and  said,  smiling,  &quot;Viens  voir  Mrs.  Erskine.&quot;  (Owing  to  the  Ursuline  lisp  this  must  have  been  &quot;Mitheth  Erthkine.&quot;  )  Without  coyness  or  any  more  conversation  she  lay  down-he  said  &quot;on  the  track,&quot;  but  he  must  have  meant  near  it,  if  you  think  of  the  ties.  Folded  into  the  cloak,  Louis  at  last  became  part  of  a  predicament.  He  decided  that  any  further  experience  could  only  fall  short  of  it,  and  so  he  never  married.  In  this  story  about  the  cloak  Mrs.  Erskine  is  transmuted  from  the  pale,  affected  statue  I  remember  and  takes  on  a  polychrome  life.  She  seems  cheer-  ful  and  careless,  and  I  like  her  for  that.  Carelessness  might  explain  her  unreliable  memory  about  [REDACTED].  And  yet  not  all  that  careless:  &quot;She  even  knew  the  train  times,&quot;  said  Louis.  &quot;She  must  have  done  it  before.&quot;  Still,  on  a  sharp  blue  day,  when  some  people  were  still  in  a  dark  classroom  writing  &quot;abyssus  abyssum  invocat&quot;  all  over  their  immortal  souls,  she,  who  had  been  through  this  and  escaped  with  nothing  worse  than  a  lisp,  had  the  sun,  the  snow,  the  wrap  of  fur,  the  bright  sky,  the  risk.  'There  is  a  raffish  kind  of  nerve  to  her,  the  only  nerve  that  mat-  ters.  For  that  one  conversation  Louis  and  I  wondered  what  our  appearance  on-  stage  several  scenes  apart  might  make  us  to  each  other:  if  A  was  the  daughter  of  B,  and  B  rattled  the  foundations  of  C,  and  C,  though  cautious  and  lazy  where  women  were  concerned,  was  committed  in  a  way  to  D,  and  D  was  forever  trying  to  tell  her  life's  story  to  E,  the  husband  of  B,  and  E  had  enough  on  his  hands  with  B  without  taking  on  D,  too,  and  if  D  decided  to  lie  down  on  or  near  a  railway  track  with  F,  then  what  are  A  and  F?  Nothing.  Minor  satellites  floating  out  of  orbit  and  out  of  order  after  the  stars  burned  out.  Mrs.  Erskine  reclaimed  Dr.  Chau-  chard  but  he  never  married  anvone.  Angus  reclaimed  [REDACTED]  but  he  died  soon  after.  Louis,  another  old  bachelor,  had  that  one  good  anecdote  about  the  fur  cloak.  I  lost  even  the  engraving  of  &quot;The  Doctor,&quot;  spirited  away  quite  shabbily,  and  I  never  saw  Dr.  Chau-  chard  again  or  even  tried  to.  What  if  I  had  turned  up  one  day,  aged  eighteen  or  so,  only  to  have  him  say  to  his  nurse,  &quot;Does  anyone  know  she's  here?&quot;  When  I  read  the  three  obituaries  it  was  the  brass  plate  on  the  door  I  saw  and  &quot;Sur  Rendez-vous.&quot;  That  means  &quot;no  dropping  in.&quot;  After  the  warning  came  the  shut  heron  door  and  the  shut  swan  door  and,  at  another  remove,  the  desk  with  the  circle  of  lamplight  and  R.E.  himself,  writing  about  X,  Y,  Z,  and  Mozart.  A  bit  humdrum  perhaps,  a  bit  prosy,  not  nearly  as  good  as  his  old  winter  Saturday  self,  but  I  am  sure  that  it  was  his  real  voice,  the  voice  that  transcends  this  or  that  language.  His  French-speaking  friends  did  not  hear  it  for  a  long  time  (his  first  book  of  verse  was  not  sold  to  anyone  outside  his  immediate  family),  while  his  Eng-  lish-speaking  friends  never  heard  it  at  all.  But  I  should  have  heard  it  then,  at  the  start,  standing  on  tiptoe  to  reach  the  doorbell,  calling  through  the  let-  ter  box  every  way  I  could  think  of,  &quot;I,  me.&quot;  I  ought  to  have  heard  it  when  I  was  still  under  ten  and  had  all  my  wits  about  me. "