 b"EARL  and  Mavis  Beeman  and  son  Don,  seventeen,  had  lived  together  in  the  two-bedroom  green  stucco  house  at  2813  Rochester  for  sixteen  years,  but  for  the  last  two  they  had  been  like  ships  in  the  night.  Don,  a  gangly  youth,  with  his  father's  large  head  and  flat  nose  and  his  moth-  er's  shoulder-length  hair,  kept  to  him-  self  and  seldom  spoke  unless  spoken  to.  &quot;Ever  since  he  joined  that  band  ...&quot;  his  dad  said.  Mavis  suspected  drugs  and  finally  asked  Don  straight  out.  He  told  her  that  coffee  is  a  drug,  but,  as  Mavis  pointed  out,  coffee  drinkers  do  not  lock  themselves  in  their  rooms  and  never  talk  to  their  parents.  Actually,  Don  did  love  his  folks.  It  was  just  that  right  now  he  was  totally  into  his  music.  But  they  thought  some-  thing  was  wrong.  One  Friday  night,  when  Don  and  his  band,  Trash,  were  playing  for  a  dance  at  the  Armory,  Earl  and  Mavis  went  in  and  shook  down  his  room.  Under  the  bed  they  found  a  box  of  tapes,  numbered  one  through  four  and  marked  &quot;Songs.&quot;  They  played  them  and  found  out  they  were  songs  written  and  sung  by  Don.  They  were  about  subjects  he  had  never  discussed  at  home,  such  as  anger  and  violence.  One  song  was  about  going  down  the  street  and  tripping  up  nuns,  and  although  the  Beemans  were  not  Catholic  they  were  shocked.  The  next  morning,  Earl  spoke  to  Don.  He  didn't  mention  the  songs,  but  he  told  Don  to  quit  being  moody  around  home  and  to  make  good  use  of  his  time,  instead  of  hanging  around  with  a  bunch  of  punks  who  were  up  to  no  good.  &quot;We  didn't  bring  you  up  to  be  just  another  dumb  punk,&quot;  Earl  told  him.  &quot;Sometimes  you  make  me  ashamed  to  be  your  parent.&quot;  Actually,  &quot;punk  rock,&quot;  as  it  is  called,  has  brought  about  some  use-  ful  changes  in  popular  music,  as  many  respected  rock  critics  have  pointed  out,  and  its  roots  can  be  traced  back  to  the  very  origins  of  rock  itself  and  perhaps  even  a  little  bit  farther.  &quot;It  goes  with-  out  saying,&quot;  Green  Phillips  has  written  in  &quot;Rip  It  Up:  The  Sound  of  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  Urban  Experience,&quot;  &quot;that  punk  rock  is  outrageous.  Outrage  is  its  object,  its  raison  d'\xc3\xa9tre,  its  very  soul.  It  can  also  be  said  to  be  mean,  filthy,  stupid,  self-destructive,  and  a  menace  to  society.  But  that  does  not  mean  we  should  minimize  its  contribu-  tion  or  fail  to  see  it  for  what  it  truly  is:  an  attempt  to  reject  the  empty  postur-  ing  of  the  pseudo-intellectual,  album-  oriented  Rock-as-Art  consciousness  cult  of  the  post-Pepper  era  and  to  re-cre-  ate  the  primal  persona  of  the  Rocker  as  Car  Thief,  Dropout,  and  Guy  Who  Beats  Up  Creeps.&quot;  Punk-rock  bands,  Phillips  goes  on  to  say,  through  their  very  outrageousness  -the  musicians  spitting  onstage,  curs-  ing  and  throwing  things  at  the  audi-  ence,  breaking  up  dressing  rooms,  trying  to  burn  down  auditoriums,  and  some-  times  seriously  injuring  their  managers  and  road  crews-have  forced  many  critics  to  reE\xc3\xa9xamine  certain  pre-punk  assumptions,  such  as  the  role  of  criticism.  As  it  turned  out,  criticism  was  ex-  actly  what  Earl  gave  Don,  especially  after  the  President's  Day  County  4-H  Poultry  Show  dance,  at  which  Trash  played.  Actually,  the  dance  wasn't  so  bad.  The  band  was  rowdy  and  yelled  a  lot  of  tough,  punk  types  of  stuff  at  the  audience,  but  that  was  their  thing,  after  all,  and  nobody  really  minded  until  Trash's  drummer,  Bobby  Thompson,  spat  at  Sharon  Farley  while  she  was  being  crowned  Poultry  Show  Queen  on  the  stage  between  numbers.  He  said  that  she  had  given  him  a  stuckup  look,  but  Mrs.  Goodrich,  the  senior  4-H  ad-  viser,  ordered  him  to  leave  the  poultry  barn  instantly.  But  the  kids  thought  it  had  been  done  just  in  fun,  and  yelled  until  she  decided  to  let  him  stay,  on  condition  that  he  didn't  do  any  more  of  that  sort  of  thing.  Of  course,  this  was  a  direct  chal-  lenge  to  the  others  in  the  band.  Brian  Bigelow,  the  bass  player,  spat  at  Mrs.  Goodrich  as  she  left  the  stage,  and  then,  with  the  crowd  yelling  and  egg-  ing  them  on,  the  others  in  the  band  made  belching  noises  and  lifted  up  their  shirts.  Don  and  the  other  guitarist,  Art  Johnson,  turned  their  amps  up  full  blast,  and  soon  feed  pellets  were  flying  back  and  forth.  Things  were  just  about  com-  pletely  out  of  hand  when  suddenly  a  guy  tossed  a  chicken  on  the  stage  and  Bobby  grabbed  it  and  bit  its  neck.  Instantly,  the  barn  was  hushed.  &quot;Did   you  see  that!&quot;  some  people  murmured.  &quot;See  what?&quot;  other  people  whispered.  Trash  packed  up  their  equipment  quickly,  while  sev-  eral  exhibitors  chased  and  then  caught  the  chicken.  Somebody  took  it  to  a  vet.  Everyone  went  home.  The  next  morning  at  breakfast,  Earl  picked  up  the  Gazette  and  found  his  son  on  page  1.  &quot;4-H  DANCE  ENDS  IN  RIOT  AS  ROCK  BAND  EATS  LIVE  BIRD,&quot;  the  headline  said.  According  to  the  story,  police  were  investigating  the  incident,  which  one  observer  at  the  scene  called  &quot;an  act  of  bestiality  remi-  niscent  of  Nazi  Germany.&quot;  Earl,  a  veteran  of  the  Second  World  War,  exploded.  He  kicked  open  Don's  bedroom  door,  flung  himself  at  his  son,  who  had  only  just  awakened,  and  hauled  him  out  of  bed  by  one  leg.  &quot;Why?&quot;  he  screamed.  &quot;Why?  Why?  Why?&quot;  He  swung  wildly  at  the  dumb-  founded  youth  with  the  rolled-up  news-  paper.  &quot;'Why  do  you  do  everything  pos-  sible  to  disgrace  us?&quot;  he  yelled.  &quot;Why  must  you  search  for  ways  to  show  your  hatred  and  contempt?  Even  if  you  have  no  respect  for  us,  do  you  have  no  respect  for  yourself?  How  can  you  do  this?  Is  there  no  limit?&quot;  &quot;Dad,&quot;  Don  said  when  Earl  finally  paused  for  breath.  &quot;Dad,  it's  only  music.&quot;  &quot;It's  only  music,&quot;  Earl  repeated  dumbly.  &quot;It's  only  music.  You  drag  our  name  in  the  mud,  and  you  say  it's  only  music,.  I  suppose  the  next  thing  you'll  tell  me  is  it's  only  a  chicken!&quot;  ACTUALLY,  it  was  onlya  chicken,  as  Don  and  his  friends  kept  tell-  ing  each  other  when  they  met  that  night  in  Bobby's  garage  to  rehearse.  They  hadn't  shot  a  deer  or  gutted  a  fish  or  slaughtered  a  pig  or  thrown  a  lobster  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water.  One  of  them,  in  the  excitement  of  the  mo-  ment,  had  simply  bitten  the  neck  of  a  chicken-a  chicken  that,  as  it  turned  out,  was  going  to  be  perfectly  O.K.  They  had  the  vet's  word  for  that.  &quot;They  are  trying  to  pin  on  us  all  the  violence  and  hatred  that  are  in  their  own  hearts,&quot;  said  Brian,  hanging  up  his  big  bass  speaker  on  a  rafter.  &quot;They  think  our  music  is  violent  just  because  it  shows  them  where  they  are  at  and  they  don't  dare  to  admit  it.&quot;  &quot;They  can  try  all  they  want  but  they'll  never  stop  rock  and  roll,&quot;  Bobby  said,  referring  to  Mrs.  Goodrich,  who  had  already  called  up  all  of  the  county  4-H  advisers,  several  youth  ministers,  a  lot  of  high-school  teachers,  and  the  county  extension  agent  to  arrange  an  emergency  meeting  that  night.  " b"&quot;TEEN  LEADERS  VOW  ANTI-  ROCK  DRIVE,  AIM  SMUT  BAN  IN  AREA,&quot;  the  Gazette  reported  the  fol-  lowing  morning.  &quot;Longtime  youth  worker  Diane  Goodrich  enjoys  having  a  good  time  as  much  as  the  next  person  [the  story  went  on],  but  Monday  night,  watching  a  local  rock  band  rip  in-  to  a  live  chicken  with  their  teeth  at  the  4-H  Poultry  Show  dance,  she  decided  it  was  time  to  call  'foul.'  Evidently,  more  than  a  few  people  agree  with  her.  Last  night,  at  a  meeting  in  the  high-  school  auditorium  attended  on  a  word-  of-mouth  basis  by  literally  dozens  of  parents,  not  to  mention  civic  leaders  and  youth  advisers,  she  spoke  for  the  conscience  of  a  community  when  she  said,  'Have  we  become  so  tolerantof  deviant  behavior,  so  sympathetic  toward  the  sick  in  our  society,  that,in  the  words  of  Bertram  Follette,  &quot;we  have  lost  the  capacity  to  say,  &quot;This  is  not  far  out.&quot;  You  have  simply  gone  too  far.  Now  we  say  &quot;No!&quot;  *&quot;?&quot;  DON  walked  slowly  home  from  school  that  day.  A  B-plus  stu-  dent,  he  was  sensitive  to  the  accusa-  tions  made  against  him  and  his  friends,  and  while  he  knew  that  the  uproar  had  been  caused  at  least  partly  by  irre-  sponsible  reporting  in  the  media,he  also  realized  that  the  time  had  come  for  both  sides  to  cool  their  rhetoric  and  sit  down  and  talk.  In  his  mind,  he  sought  ways  for  his  dad  and  himself  to  re-  solve  their  differences,  but  he  couldn't  think  ofa  single  one.  Actually,  their  relationship  had  been  pretty  good-at  least,  on  a  hunting-and-fishing  level.  Earl  had  taught  Don  how  to  handle  a  shotgun  and  tie  a  fly  and  cleana  fish  and  take  care  of  a  skillet  and,  most  of  all,  how  to  sit  still  all  morning  in  the  blind.  Actually,  that  was  a  problem.  In hunting  and  fishing,  it  is  important,  of  course,  to  be  absolutely  quiet.  Don  and  Earl  had  spent  whole  days  on  Stone  Lake  casting  into  rocky  inlets  for  bass,  and  if  Don  so  much  as  rattled  an  oarlock  Earl  glared  at  him.  Don  was  never  encouraged  to  share  with  his  dad  his  feelings  about  himself  or  his  hopes  for  the  future.  He  was  just  expected  to  sit  and  not  scare  fish.  T  was  a  shaken  Trash,  an  incensed  Trash,  that  met  in  the  Thompsons  garage  after  supper  on  Wednesday.  &quot;We're  going  to  show  them,&quot;  Brian  vowed,  his  fists  clenched  white,  &quot;that  we  can  be  everything  they  say  we  are.  They  tell  lies  about  us-O.K.,  we're  going  to  make  those  lies  come  true!&quot;  That  night,  they  played  with  wild  abandon.  The  garage  windows  rattled  as  the  band  members  screamed  (and  chorded)  their  frustration  at  having  " b"been  attacked  for  something  that  had  been  blown  up  way  out  of  proportion.  Baby,  you  call  me  an  animal  for  something  I  didn't  do,  Well,  if  that's  how  you  want  it  I'm  going  to  be  wild  for  you!  At  the  word  &quot;wild,&quot;  the  boys  lunged  forward  and  crouched  and  grinned  like  madmen.  Well,  O.K.,  baby,  you  think  you're  Little  Red  Riding  Hood,  I'll  be  the  Big  Bad  Wolf,  and  this  time  I'll  get  you  good.  Here,  Art  stomped  on  the  blitz  pedal,  throwing  his  amp  into  overdrive,  while  Don  beat  on  his  Ripley  B-19  with  windmill  chops,  and  Brian  actually  straddled  the  bass  and  rode  it  like  a  horse.  Bobby  leaped  from  the  drums  and,  with  one  yank,  started  up  his  fa-  ther's  lawnmower,  to  which  they  had  taped  a  microphone.  I'm  gonna  ride  my  mower  all  around  this  town,  Cut  everybody  who's  been  trying  to  put  me  down!  Now  they  moved  into  the  finale.  The  lawnmower  was  stopped  and  the  band  fell  silent,  except  for  the  bump-  bump-bump  of  Brian's  bass,  as  Bobby  staggered  forward  like  somebody  com-  pletely  out  of  his  mind-panting,  grop-  ing,  and  stumbling,  with  his  eyes  wild-while  Brian  sang:  Well,  you  call  us  trash,  so  what  do  we  have  to  lose?  We're  gonna  be  so  bad  you  can  read  it  in  the  morning  news!  Suddenly  Bobby  leaped  into  the  air,  rushed  forward,  reached  into  a  card-  board  box,  and  grabbed  the  chicken  and  bit  it  again  and  again,  until  the  feathers  flew.  Actually,  it  was  just  a  pillow  they  had  put  there  forthe  rehearsal,  but  it  seemed  real  to  Trash,  who  sat  back  exhausted  after  the  song.  They  all  had  experienced  a  tremendous  release  from  it,  and  yet  they  were  stunned  at  what  had  happened.  &quot;Like  I  wasn't  even  aware  of  what  I  was  doing,&quot;  Bobby  said.  &quot;I  couldn't  believe  it  was  me.  It  was  that  great.&quot;  &quot;It's  bigger  than  us,&quot;  Art  said.  &quot;I  get  into  it  and  I  am  just  completely  blown  away.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know  if  we  should  actually  ever  do  it,&quot;  Don  said.  &quot;If  you  think  we  really  should,  then  I  guess  so,  but  I  really  don't  know.&quot; &quot;I  don't  think  we  should  do  it  unless  we're  really  into  it,  but  if  it's  go-  ing  to  happen,  then  I  say  let  it  happen,&quot;  Brian  said.  N  Wednesday  eve-  ning,  Earl  and  Mavis  were  sitting  in  their  forest-green  loung-  er  chairs  beside  the  fire-  place  in  the  basement  family  room,  reading  the  sports  and  family  sections,  respectively,  of  the  Ge-  zette.  There  was  more  about  Mrs.  Goodrich  and  her  Committee  for  Teen  Decency  on  the  family  page  (&quot;ROCK-  RECORD  ROAST  SLAT-  ED  FOR  SUNDAY&quot;),  but  by  now  Mavis  was  able  to  read  articles  on  the  subject  without  tears.  &quot;I  don't  know,  I  feel  they  are  being  unfair  to  Don  and  his  friends,&quot;  she  said  to  Earl.  &quot;They  are  making  a  mountain  out  of  what  was  prob-  ably  just  a  joke.  Mrs.  Thompson  told  me  that  Bobby  didn't  even  draw  blood  on  that  chicken.  All  it  suffered  was  a  slight  neck  sprain.  She  said  that  when  Bobby  was  little  he  would  tease  his  sister  by  pretending  to  eat  angleworms.  Maybe  this  is  the  same  thing.&quot;  ''Time  they  grew  up,  then,&quot;  Earl  said.  &quot;'They  walk  around  like  they  got  the  world  on  a  string.  Never  listen  to  a  thing  you  say.  Treat  you  like  dirt.  Maybe  this'll  give  them  a  taste  of  their  own  medicine.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know,&quot;  Mavis  said  thought-  fully.  &quot;A  mother  doesn't  have  all  the  answers.  Sometimes  I'm  upset  by  little  things  they  do  or  say.  Sometimes  I  wonder.  But  in  the  end  I  know  he's  still  my  boy.  I  may  not  always  under-  stand,  but  I  know  he  needs  me  to  be  here,  to  listen,  to  forgive.  And  I  know  there's  nobody  so  bad  but  what  they  deserve  a  second  chance.&quot;  Earl  and  Mavis  talked  a  long  time  that  night.  They  remembered  the  many  good  times  they  had  had  with  Don-  the  pleasure  he  had  given  them,  the  many  wonderful  memories.  Mavis  re-  called  that  Don's  first  word  had  been  &quot;Papa,&quot;  and  Earl  recalled  that  his  sec-  ond  was  &quot;chicken.&quot;  They  both  had  a  good  laugh  over  that!  &quot;'They  weregood  years,  Mave,&quot;  Earl  said,  his  eyes  glistening.  &quot;I've  been     " b"wrong  about  Don,  I'll  do  better  now.&quot;  &quot;Tomorrow  is  a  new  day,&quot;  she  re-  plied  brightly.  &quot;He's  a  good  boy  if  only  we'd  give  him  a  chance,&quot;  said  Earl,  practically  weeping.  &quot;Just  like  his  daddy,&quot;  said  Mavis,  reaching  for  his  hand.  &quot;Let's  go  up  to  bed,&quot;  said  Earl,  ris,  ing.  He  held  her  tightly.  &quot;I  think  this  is  just  going  to  bring  us  closer  together,&quot;  she  said.  DON  couldn't  sleep  Wednesday  night.  He  had  gotten  up  twice,  once  to  swipe  a  pack  of  his  dad's  Salems  and  then  to  get  the  blackberry  wine  left  over  from  Christmas,  and  now,  as  he  lay  in  bed  drinking  and  smoking  and  carefully  exhaling  toward  the  fan  that  hummed  in  the  window,  he  felt  torn  between  his  deep  love  of  music  and  his  fears  that  Trash  was  going  off  the  deep  end.  He  had  confessed  this  doubt  to  Brian  at  school,  and  Brian  said,  &quot;If  it  feels  good,  then  what's  wrong?&quot;  Don  was  not  completely  certain  in  his  own  mind  if  this  made  sense  or  not.  How  can  you  feel  good  if  you  don't  know  it's  right,  he  wondered.  And  how  do  you  know  if  something  is  right?  After  talking  to  Brian,  he  had  spent  his  lunch  hour  in  the  library,  searching  the  short  shelf  marked  &quot;Philosophy  &amp;  Religion&quot;  for  a  book  that  might  clarify  his  thinking,  and  now  he  reached  for  it  on  the  bedside  table.  It  was  &quot;The  Art  of  Decision-Making,&quot;  by  M.  Henry  Fellows.  Two  lines  from  the  preface  had  impressed  him,  and  now  he  read  them  again:  In  a  society  appearing  often  paralyzed  byan  overload  of  complex  decisions,  the  act  of  de-  cision-making  may  assume  pri-  mary  importance  over  the  actu-  al  meaning  and  effect  of  the  de-  cision  itself;  or,  to  put  it  anoth-  er  way,  a  crucial  function  of  the  decision-making  process  is  to  as-  sert  the  power  to  decide.  It  is  necessary  to  make  this  pointab-  solutely  clear:  in  an  increasingly  complected  society,  the  act  of  making  decisions  is  clearly  not  a  matter  of  choice  but  a  matter  of  necessity.  Once  again  Don  knew  he  must  decide  whether  to  stay  in  Trash  and  risk  banishment  from  home  and  the  permanent  hatred  of  a  community  (and  perhaps  a  nation)  united  in  outrage  at  the  senseless  injury  (or  even  death)  of  a  barnyard  fowl,  or  not,  and  he  had  to  decide  before  their  next  public  appearance.  The  next  morning,  Mavis  got  on  the  phone  to  the  other  Trash  parents,  and  that  evening,  in  the  Beeman  living  room,  the  eight  of  them  agreed  that  the  boys  had  been  treated  unfairly  and  deserved  a  second  chance.  &quot;Let's  put  on  a  dance  ourselves!&quot;  Art's  mom  sug-  gested,  and  everybody  said,  &quot;Why  not?&quot;  'That  week,  Earl  arranged  through  his  union  to  rent  the  Brick-  layers  Hall  for  a  low  rate,  and  Mrs.  Thompson,  who  worked  for  an  ad  agency,  formed  her  media  friends  into  a  publicity  committee.  Mavis  took  charge  of  refreshments,  and  Mr.  Thompson  talked  the  mayor,  an  old  fishing  buddy,  into  granting  them  a  provisional  dance  permit.  &quot;We'll  have  to  move  fast  be-  fore  the  City  Council  can  rescind  it,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Saturday  night's  the  night.&quot;  Trash  rehearsed  Thursday  night  in  the  Thompsons'  garage.  Although  they  knew  their  folks  had  gotten  behind  them,  they  didn't  discuss  the  planned  dance,  now  tentatively  titled  (Mrs.  Thompson's  idea)  &quot;A  Salute  to  Youth.&quot;  Perhaps  they  couldn't  believe  it  was  true.  Once  again  the  music  was  so  powerful,  so  all-encompassing,  that  the  boys  got  carried  away  and  went  right  into  &quot;They  Call  Us  Trash.&quot;  &quot;Let's  not  do  that  song  tonight,&quot;  Don  had  asked,  but  they  did-they  couldn't  help  it-and  they  played  even  more  wildly  than  before,  perhaps  because  of  a  strobe  light  that  Art  had  borrowed  from  his  dad,  a  mechanic,  who  used  it  for  bal-  ancing  wheels.  The  effect  of  the  strobe  was  frightening.  Bobby  ate  practically  half  the  pillow  beforethey  could  get  it  away  from  him.  They  had  to  sit  on  him  and  hold  him  down,  even  though  they  were  pretty  shaky  themselves.  When  they  had  quieted  down  a  little,  they  tried  out  Brian's  new  song,  which  he  had  written  that  day:  All  my  life  you  told  me  &quot;Shut  up  and  behave.&quot;  Well,  from  now  on,  Mama,  your  boy's  gonna  scream  and  rave.  I  know  you  hate  to  see  me  playing  rock  and  roll,  But,  Mom,  I  gotta  break  your  heart  to  save  my  soul.  Later  on,  Don  would  remember  the  last  line  as  the  point  at  which  he  had  begun  to  make  his  decision.  DON  came  home  from  school  Friday  and,  as  usual,  put  on  a  record  and  fixed  himself  a  peanut-butter-on-toast  sandwich  and  a  glass  of  milk.  The  phone  rang  just  as  the  toast  popped  up.  &quot;Long  distance  calling  for  a  Donald  Beeman,&quot;  said  an  operator's  voice.  &quot;'This  is  him,&quot;  Don  answered.  &quot;Go  ahead,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Don,&quot;  said  a  deep  voice  at  the  other  end.  &quot;Green  Phillips  here,  at  Falling  Rocks.&quot;  Falling  Rocks!  At  the  mention  of  the  name  of  the  country's  leading  rock  tabloid,  Don's  mind  went  completely  numb.  Falling  Rocks!  But-  &quot;Don,  we  have  a  photographer  who  is  flying  out  there  right  now  on  a  char-     " b"tered  jet  to  cover  your  concert  tomor-  row,&quot;  Phillips  went  on.  &quot;I'll  be  doing  the  story  from  here,  and  I  need  some-  thing  from  you  over  the  phone.  I'm  going  upstairs  in  a  minute  and  I'm  go-  ing  to  try  to  sell  this  thing  as  a  cover  story,  but  at  the  moment  we're  up  against  a  Beatles-reunion  rumor  and  a  Phil  Spector  retrospective  and  God  knows  what  else,  so  I  need  something  to  put  us  over  the  top.  Don,  I'm  going  to  put  it  straight  to  you.  I'm  up  against  a  deadline  and  I'm  up  against  a  bunch  of  editors  who  don't  know  what's  go-  ing  on,  and  I  need  to  know  something  right  now-not  tonight,  not  tomorrow  morning,  not  maybe,  but  yes  or  no.  Is  your  guy  going  to  eat  the  chicken  or  isn't  he?&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cWHA  T  did  you  tell  him?&quot;  Bob-  by  grabbed  Don's  shoulders  and  shook  him  and  hugged  him  at  the  same  time.  &quot;I  said  probably.&quot;  &quot;Probably?&quot;  &quot;I  said  yes,  I  was  pretty  sure,  it  looked  like  that  was  going  to  happen.&quot;  &quot;It's  in  the  bank!&quot;  Bobby  yelled.  &quot;It's  not  going  to  happen.  It's  hap-  pening!&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cGEEK  Rock  is  a  style  that  departs  radically  from  the  punk  genre  even  as  it  transcends  it,&quot;  Green  Phil-  lips  explained  in  the  cover  story  he  typed  out  that  night.  &quot;It  is  music  with  a  mythic  urge,  raw  and  dirty  and  yet  soaring  off  into  the  cosmic  carny  spirit  of  primitivist  [REDACTED]  and  the  sawdust  world  of  the  freak  show  of  the  soul,  starring  Tamar,  Half  Girl  and  Half  Gorilla,  and  Koko  the  Wild  Man  from  Borneo  Who  EatsLive  Spiders.  &quot;For  all  the  macho  leather  and  scarred  brilliance  of  its  Presleys,  Vincents,  or  Coop-  ers,&quot;  he  wrote,  &quot;rock  has  al-  ways  stayed  within  the  bounds  of  urban  sensibility-a  more  ordered  world  that  has  filed  rebellion  and  outrage  into  the  thematic  grid  of  heavy  drinking,  hard  fighting,  hot  cars,  and  fast  sex.  The  achievement  of  Trash  is  to  take  us,  as  punk  rock  never  can,  into  the  darkest  backroads  of  the  heartland,  back  into  the  sideshow  tent  of  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  ex-  perience,  and,  inevitably,  of  course,  back  into  ourselves.&quot;  ON  Saturday  morning,  Don  slept  late,  and  when  he  awoke  he  longed  to  go  downstairs  and  plead  with  his  mom  and  dad.  &quot;Please  cancel  'A  Salute  to  Youth.'  Don't  ask  why-just  cancel     it  immediately,&quot;  he  wanted  to  tell  them.  But  he  knew  it  was  too  late  for  reap-  praisal.  Whatever  was  going  to  hap-  pen  had  gained  too  much  momentum.  The  three  hundred  friends  and  rela-  tives  of  Trash  who  jammed  the  Brick-  layers  Hall  that  night  (including  a  number  of  ministers  who  believed  that  the  basic  message  of  rock  was  caring  and  sharing,  as  well  as  Don's  grandma,  who  was  hard  of  hearing)  knew  no  such  trepidation.  They  piled  into  the  hall  as  if  they  were  going  to  a  party.  It  took  Mr.  Thompson,  who  was  master  of  ceremonies,  several  minutes  to  get  all  the  people  to  take  their  seats  and  give  him  their  attention.  He  spoke  brief-  ly  on  the  importance  of  trust  in  human  relationships  and  then,  to  brighten  the  occasion  with  a  little  humor,  he  shout-  ed,  &quot;And  now,  back  safe  and  sound  from  its  last  engagement...&quot;  and  waved  toward  the  wings,  and  out  came  the  treasurer  of  the  4-H  Club  bearing  a  chicken  with  a  bandaged  neck.  He  put  it  down  in  its  cage  at  the  front  of  the  stage,  and  the  crowd  gave  the  chicken  a  standing  ovation.  Trash  leaped  out  onstage,  ready  to  play  for  keeps.  &quot;We  Came  to  Rock,&quot;  &quot;Look  Out,  Danger,&quot;  &quot;Electric  Cur-  tains,&quot;  &quot;It  Hurts  Me  More,&quot;  and  &quot;Dirty,  Desperate,  Born  to  Die&quot;  (all  originals)  led  offthe  show  and  were  appreciated  by  almost  everyone.  Many  people  in  the  crowd,  including  all  the  Trash  parents,  got  up  to  dance  to  the  crackling  beat,  which  seemed  to  pound  up  through  the  floor.  Some  of  the  parents  had  learned  this  particular  dance  in  adult-education  classes.  &quot;'They  certainly  do  get  quite  a  sound  out  of  secondhand  instruments!&quot;  Mrs.  Thompson  called  to  Mavis  Beeman.  Mavis  was  nervous.  &quot;Don't  they  look  a  little  feverish  to  you?&quot;  she  asked.  Don  had  actually  been  feeling  sick  all  day.  His  face  was  flushed  and  his  stomach  was  upset,  but  he  had  refused  to  let  his  mother  take  his  temperature.  &quot;Nothing  at  [REDACTED];  he  said  when  she  asked  what  was  wrong.  But  later  he  came  into  the  kitchen  during  supper  and  said  maybe  it  would  be  better  if  she  and  Earl  stayed  home  tonight,  that  it  might  be  too  late  for  them.  &quot;Of  course  not,&quot;  she  had  said.  &quot;We  want  to  be  there.&quot;  Now  it  was  eleven  o'clock-they  had  promised  the  Bricklayers  to  be  through  by  eleven-thirty-and,  stand-  ing  at  the  back  of  the  hall,  trying  to  see  over  the  dancers,  Mavis  was  strick-  en  by  the  sight  of  the  chicken,  still there  in  its  cage.  She  didn't  know  why,  but  she  felt  sure  that  if  she  could  only  reach  the  stage  in  time  ...  &quot;Stop  the  music!&quot;  she  cried.  She  pushed  for-  ward  into  the  waves  and  currents  of  bodies,  which  shoved  and  battered  against  her  as  the  band  sang,  &quot;You  call  me  an  animal  for  something  I  didn't  [REDACTED];  &quot;Don,  it's  not  too  late!&quot;  she  hol-  lered,  but  it  was,  and  her  efforts  only  served  to  give  her  a  front-row  seat  for  a  sight  she  would  never  forget  the  rest  of  her  life:  a  brief  moment  of  eye  contact  with  the  chicken  as  it  fixed  her  with  an  expression  of  utter  reproach  in  the  split  second  before  Bobby  tore  open  the  cage,  &quot;Perhaps  no  bird,  not  even  the  eagle,  bluebird,  or  robin,  has  entered  so  deep-  ly  the  folk  consciousness  of  the  race  as  has  the  common  chicken  (Gallus  gal-  lus),&quot;  Green  Phillips  had  written.  &quot;In-  deed,  throughout  the  Christian  world,  and  even  in  many  non-Christian  coun-  tries,  the  chicken,  from  Plymouth  Rock  to  lowly  Leghorn,  has  come  to  stand  for  industry,  patience,  and  fecundity,  and,  through  its  egg,  for  life  itself,  re-  birth,  and  the  resurrection  of  Christ,  and,  through  its  soup,  for  magical  heal-  ing  and  restoration  of  the  spirit.  And  yet,  even  as  the  chicken  rides  high  as  symbol  of  the  Right  Life  in  the  pastoral  dreams  of  the  post-agrarian  bourgeoisie,  its  name  has  attracted  other  connota-  tions-of  pettiness,  timidity,  and  fool-  ishness-perhaps  reflecting  our  cul-  ture's  doubts  about  itself.  It  is  the  peculiar  genius  of  Trash  to  exploit  this  dichotomy  to  its  fullest  resolution,  and  thus  to  release  in  an  audience  such  revulsion  as  can  only  indicate  that  profound  depths  have  been  reached.&quot;  f  I  'RAsH  spent  Saturday  night  at  the  Thompsons'.  Mrs.  Thompson  had  said  that  she  would  not  speak  to  them  but  she  would  not  turn  them  away,  ei-  ther,  and  they  were  welcome  to  sleep  in  the  basement.  Mr.  Thompson  was  out  consoling  the  Beemans,  who  had  taken  it  hard,  especially  Mavis.  Don  called  home  Sunday  afternoon,  and  his  mom  hung  up  on  him.  Trash  spent  Sunday  night  on  a  bus  to  [REDACTED]  and  put  up  at  a  Holiday  Inn,  and  on  Monday  night  played  one  set  as  an  opening  act  to  Sump,  at  the  Armory.  Advance  ticket  sales  had  been  sluggish  for  weeks,  until  the  promoter  booked  Trash  on  the  strength  of  a  page  2  photo  in  the  Sunday  paper  showing  Bobby  with  a  faceful  of  feath-  ers  under  the  headline  &quot;CHICKEN  SLAIN  BY  MIDWEST  SINGER.&quot;  Quick-  ly  reprinted  on  posters,  it  boosted  box-  " b"office  some,  but  in  the  drafty  hall,  playing  on  borrowed  gear  to  a  strange  and  scattered  audience,  Trash  couldn't  work  up  to  the  emotional  peak  they  needed  to  make  the  whole  thing  work.  The  new  chicken  sat  in  its  cage  and  shivered,  and  when  the  time  came  Bobby  hadn't  the  heart  to  do  more  than  just  pick  it  up  and  shake  it.  The  crowd,  which  nat-  urally  expected  more,  booed  them  off  the  stage.  But  actually  it  wasn't  bad  for  starters.  They  got  six  hundred  dollars  for  the  night's  work  and  a  telephone  call  offering  them  a  job  in  Tampa  as  open-  ing  act  for  the  Ronnies,  a  successful  band  that  already  had  an  album,  &quot;Greatest  Hits,&quot;  and  was  already  popular  in  some  places,  including   Wilkes-Barre,  Gary,  Erie,  [REDACTED],  and  Baton  Rouge.  The  Ronnies,  who  were  into  a  combination  of  punk  and  heavy-metal  plus  some  middle-of-  the-road  along  with  jazz,  liked  some  of  Trash's  music  O.K.,  but  they  were  really  turned  on  by  the  idea  of  the  chicken  bit.  When  they  all  met  in  Tampa  to  rehearse,  the  Ronnies  cut  Trash's  set  down  to  three  songs  and  worked  up  a  fifteen-minute  routine  for  the  chicken,  with  strobes  and  costumes  and  choreography  and  a  truckload  of  chicken  feathers  to  dump  on  the  audi-  ence  at  the  end.  Bobby  had  to  rehearse  the  chicken  bit  fourteen  times  that  af-  ternoon,  but  the  Ronnies'  manager,  a  little  guy  named  Darrell  Prince,  was  still  not  satisfied.  Bobby  sort  of  seemed  to  have  lost  interest  in  the  whole  idea.  &quot;I  don't  know,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  really  don't  know.&quot;  That  night,  before  Trash's  first  show  with  the  Ronnies,  Darrell  Prince  came  up  to  Don  in  the  dressing  room.  &quot;You're  doing  the  chicken,&quot;  he  said  to  him.  &quot;I  don't  know,&quot;  Don  said.  &quot;To  tell  you  the  truth,  I've  never  done  it  before.&quot;  &quot;You  watched  the  other  kid  do  it.  Just  do  what  he  did.&quot;  &quot;Well,  to  be  perfectly  honest  with  you,  it's  not  actually  something  that  I  am  particularly  into  right  now.&quot;  &quot;Get  into  it,&quot;  the  guy  said,  and  he  talked  to  Don  for  several  minutes  about  rock  and  roll  as  a  ritual  expression  of  tribal  unity  which  sets  free  powerful  feelings,  including  anger  and  guilt,  that  require  a  blood  sacrifice  to  restore  the  inner  peace  and  harmony  of  the  tribe.  He  gave  examples  of  this  from  Mayan  and  early  Japanese  cultures,  the  Old  Testament,  N.F.L.  Sunday  football,  and  the  Spanish  bullring.  &quot;Besides,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;it's  only  a  chicken.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know,&quot;  Don  said.  &quot;I  hon-  estly  don't  think  I  could  do  it  that  well.  People  pay  four,  five  dollars  to  get  in,  they  deserve  to  see  a  good  show.  I  might  just  get  sick,  or  something.&quot;  But  Darrell  Prince  walked  away,  and  a  few  minutes  later  Don  and  the  rest  of  his  friends  were  standing  in  a  corridor  of  the  amphitheatre  ready  to  go  on,  and  there  was  another  chicken  in  a  cage,  and  they  could  all  hear  the  sounds  of  the  crowd,  which  was  already  whistling  and  clapping  for  them  to  come  out.  Don  did  feel  sick,  and  he  didn't  know  if  he  was  going  to  be  able  to  do  it  or  not.  While  he  waited,  he  thought  to  himself  that  perhaps  by  doing  it  and  feeling  sick  about  doing  it  he  would  do  some  good,  perhaps  by  show-  ing  any  kids  that  might  be  in  the  audi-  ence  that  they  should  not  try  to  do  this,  and  that  maybe  it  would  be  an  exam-  ple  to  them  about  violence.  And  be-  sides,  that  afternoon  the  Falling  Rocks  story  had  come  out,  and  they  were  some  sort  of  stars. "