 b"THE  biggest  thing  in  science  now  is  black  holes.  Everyone  is  talking  about  them.  Professor  Sigmund  Schmeltzer,  of  Gottingen,  has  just  con-  ducted  a  symposium  on  black  holes  in  Aspen,  [REDACTED].  Dr.  T.  Wycliffe  Meazley,  of  Utah  A.  &amp;  M.,  is  working  on  black  holes  in  Heidelberg.  The  jun-  ior  class  of  the  Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology  is  testing  black  holes  in  the  basement  of  Beaumont  Laboratory.  Observers  from  Lockheed  and  I.B.M.  are  snooping  around  Gottingen.  Dr.  Meazley  had  lunch  with  a  vice-presi-  dent  of  Westinghouse.  Professor  Pier-  son  Flintleach,  of  M.I.T.,  is  preparing  a  black-hole  bibliography  for  the  Penta-  gon.  What  is  a  black  hole?  Why  all  the  interest?  A  black  hole  is  ahole  that  is  really  black.  It  has  no  color  at  all.  It  actually  sucks  in  any  light  that  happens  to  be  hanging  around  it,  including  its  own,  which  means  that  it  can  only  be  seen  when  it  is  in  front  of  something  else,  like  a  grapefruit.  Figure  1  Rectangular  Grapefruit  Rectangular  black  hole  black  hole  passing  in  front  of  grapefruit  Black  holes  can  be  dangerous.  If  you  were  to  run  into  a  black  hole  in  43616e616461Park  at  10  [REDACTED]  you  probably  wouldn't  know  what  had  happened  to  you,  If  you  ran  into  a  black  hole  in  43616e616461Park  no  one  would  ever  see  you  again.  That's  why  the  [REDACTED]  is  interested.  There  are  a  lot  of  people  the  [REDACTED]  never  wants  to  see  again,  like  Paul  Warnke.  Black  holes,  once  so  rare,  are  be-  coming  almost  common.  Under  de-  velopment  is  a  rectangular  black  hole  that  can  be  attached  to  a  television  set  to  take  care  of  commercials  (You  should  make  certain,  however,  that  it  is  properly  installed.)  When  the  pret-  ty  waitress  in  the  commercial  slides  a  McDonald's  hamburger  toward  you,  your  rectangular  black  hole  can  be  tuned  to  make  the  hamburger  disap-  pear.  The  great  thing  is,  the  hambur-  ger  disappears  not  only  from  your  set  but  from  every  other  set  in  the  coun-  try-even  sets  that  are  not  switched  on.Also,  theactual  hamburger  that  was  filmed  six  months  before,  in  order  to  make  the  commercial,  disappears,  too,  together  with  Ronald  McDonald  and  the  composer  of  the  McDonald's  jingle  and  the  McDonald's  account  executive  at  Forbush,  Scrimshaw  &amp;  Nash.  There  is  also  a  toroidal,  or  dough-  nut-shaped,  black  hole  (Figure  2)  that  can  absorb  a  market-research  inter-  viewer  through  a  keyhole  or  a  literary  agent  through  a  Martini  glass,  and  Figure  2  Toroidal  black  hole  passing  in  front  of  bagel  Bagel  Professor  Schmeltzer  is  reported  to  be  working  on  a  lozenge-size  black  hole  that,  taken  internally,  will  perform  an  appendectomy  in  less  time  than  it  takes  to  read  this  sentence.  Remember,  though:  if  your  black  hole  is  not  prop-  erly  installed  you  are  in  trouble.  A  man  in  Roslyn,  Long  Island,  who  ac-  quired  a  trapezoidal  black  hole  in  or-  der  to  eliminate  a  small  stand  of  poison  sumac  failed  to  notice  one  loose  screw,  and  his  garden  and  driveway  disap-  peared,  together  with  his  living  room,  the  bottom  half  ofthe  staircase,  and  the  first  five  volumes  ofthe  Micropx-  dia  section  of  his  new  Encyclopaedia  [REDACTED].  IT  is  difficult  to  believe  that  just  a  few  years  ago  it  took  an  eight-man  team  from  Cornell  most  ofa  summer  to  produce  one  inverted  black  hole.  An  inverted  black  hole  is  a  black  hole  that  pierces  the  fabric  of  time.  Suppose,  for  example,  you  are  a  suburban  matron  who  has  just  written  two  letters,  one  reminding  your  in-laws  that  they  are  expected  for  Memorial  Day  weekend,  and  the  other  to  your  son's  college  roommate  to  change  the  site  of  your  forthcoming  assignation  from  the  Cop-  ley  [REDACTED]  to  the  Sheraton  [REDACTED].  Sup-  posefurther  that,  having  dropped  the  letters  in  the  mailbox  at  3  [REDACTED],  you  suddenly  realize  that  you  have  put  them  in  the  wrong  envelopes.  With  an  in-  verted  black  hole,  you  can  slip  back  to  2:30  [REDACTED],  when  you  were  just  signing  the  letter  to  your  son's  roommate,  and  put  it  in  the  right  envelope,or  even  write  two  new  letters  cancelling  both  of  these  unpromising  engagements.  Not  everyone  is  equipped  to  handle  an  inverted  black  hole  successfully.  Mr.  Sidney  Platelet,  a  retired  closed-end-  fund  consultant,  of  Red  Wing,  Min-  nesota,  recently  purchased  an  inverted  black  hole  in  order  to  obtain  news-  papers  one  day  in  advance-a  scheme  he  thought  would  help  him  in  making  personal  investment  decisions.  Unfor-  tunately,  when  he  eagerly  opened  the  front  door  of  his  split-level  ranch  at  seven-fifty  the  following  morning,  it  turned  out  to  be  seven-fifty-one  the  previous  morning,  and  he  ran  into  himself  entering  the  house  with  the  previous  day's  [REDACTED]  Tribune  (which  he  had  already  read)  and  the  milk.  This  was  upsetting  to  Mr.  Platelet,  who  was  in  the  habit  of  breakfast,  ing  alone.  Finding  himself  admitting  an  additional  duplicate  of  himself  with  each  passing  day,  Mr.  Platelet  soon  ran  out  of  beds  and,  unable  to  stand  the  squabbling  over  coffee  and  vatmeal  and  who  would  get  first  crack  at  the  paper,  had  to  resettle  himself  in  Phoenix,  [REDACTED].  Black  holes  never  wear  out  orbe-  come  obsolete.  A  black  hole  has  no  moving  parts  and  keeps  itself  clean.  A  black  hole  is  extremely  useful  in  dealing  with  contemporary  crises  like  the  power  crunch  and  environmental  pollution.  Sam  Epping,  the  owner  of  Pete's  Diner  in  Summit,  New  Jersey,  has  recently  been  using  an  oval  black  hole  for  waste  disposal  and  to  light  up  his  neon  sign,  thus  saving  on  electric  bills  as  well  as  on  garbage  service.  Of  course,  after  five  months  of  silently  disposing  of  potato  peelings,  coffee  dregs,  eggshells,  cans,  jars,  and  old  copies  of  the  Sunday  New  York  Times,  Epping's  black  hole  has  somewhat  in-  creased  in  size.  At  the  time  ofdeliv-  ery,  it  fitted  in  a  shoebox.  Now  it  is  bigger  than  four  trailer  trucks,  and  Ep-  ping's  customers  can  no  longer  park  in  the  lot  behind  the  diner.  All  deliveries  have  to  be  made  at  the  front  door,  and  Fred,  the  night  short-order  cook,  is  getting  nervous  about  the  way  chicken  bones  are  being  snatched  out  of  his  hand.  Once  a  black  hole  is  installed,  it  is  probably  there  for  good,  and  home  re-  pairs  are  inadvisable.  If,  for  example,  that  householder  in  Roslyn  now  tried  to  adjust  his  faulty  black  hole,  his  screwdriver  wouldn't  bethe  only  thing  affected.  Before  he  knew  it,  he  might  be  two  miles  long  and  thinas  a  needle,  or  one  hundred  and  forty-six  acres  in  area  and  flat  as  a  coat  of  paint,  or  partof  a  clump  of  poison  sumac-de-  pending  on  whether  one  follows  the  Schmeltzer  hypothesis  or  the  most  re-  cent  Meazley  or  Flintleach  theories.It  " b'is  impossible  to  see  inside  a  black  hole,  so  you  can  take  your  pick.  Figure  3  Famous  black  hole  of  Calcutta  This  brings  us  back  to  Dr.  Meazley.  Meazley  says  that  black  holes  are  ush-  ering  in  a  new  industrial  revolution.  &quot;Families  will  pass  their  black  holes  on  to  their  children,&quot;  Dr.  Meazley  said  recently.  &quot;Or  to  their  friends,  if  the  children  have  been  careless.&quot;  He  predicts  that  black  holes  will  be-  come  heirlooms  and  that  each  year  more  black  holes  will  be  produced  to  satisfy  an  ever-expanding  market  finding  new  uses  for  these  versatile   to  the  Lincoln  and  [REDACTED]  gadgets.  Asked  if  the  number  of  black  holes  might  increase  to  the  point  where  there  was  little  room  left  for  things,  Dr.  Meazley  replied  that  one  can  either  be  forward-looking  and  contemplate  what  is  gained  or  a  stick-  in-the-mud  and  dwell  onwhat  is  lost,  No  progress,  he  said,  comes  with-  out  some  inconvenience.  '