 b"GOOD  afternoon,  men.  I  am Technical  Sergeant  Stone,  an  on  behalf  of  145th  Interstellar  Field  Operations,  Alpha  Company,  let  me  welcome  you  to  Way  Station  15.  I  am  one  athe  very  few  experts  on  the  many  strange  floras  an  faunas  of  Tel-  phinus  4,  where  you  men  are  headed  on  this  tour  of  duty.  You're  going  to  be  uranium  miners,  men!  Now  pay  atten-  tion  to  the  slides  an  do  not  fall  asleep,  because  if  you  fall  asleep  you  will  have  to  load  ammo  instead  of  getting  a  nice  break  like  your  buddies  here.  The  Nigh-Prowling Kipit  Let  us  turn  our  attention  to  the  Night-Prowling  Kipit.  On  the  slide  you  see  the  Night-Prowling  Kipit  in  its  adult  state.  It  somewhat  resembles  an  overturned  galvanized  milk  bucket  which  some  a  you  farm  boys  probably  used  back  on  good  old  ferra  tirma.  Ac-  tually,  weknow  now  that  the  Kipit  is  nothing  more  than  massed  energy  an  has  no  intelligence,  although  the  people  of  Telphinus  4  value  them  as  pets.  Men,  do  not  turn  on  a  light  of  any  kind  when  you  suspect  the  presence  of  a  Kipit.  The  Kipit  is  attracted  to  light  an  will  swallow  you  whole.  If  you  think  you  are  in  the  proximity  of  a  Kipit,  notify  your  commanding  officer.  He  will  provide  diversionary  light  to  clear  the  air  of  Kipits.  The  Plant  Woman  Men,  I  canhear  you  whistling  at  one  a  the  strangest  an  most  dangerous  floras  on  Telphinus  4.  Certain  zoo-logical  conditions  have  combined  on  this  far-  away  planet  to  produce  a  plant  that  looks  like  a  woman.  But  she  is  not  a  woman,  an  no  matter  how  late  the  mail  is,  do  not  treat  her  as  your  sweetheart.  For  though  she  will  cook  you  a  meal  like  your  mama  once  done,  sooner  or  later  she  will  try  to  turn  you  into  a  plant.  You  will  glow  like  a  flower  an  she  will  sing  to  you  sweetly  but  men,  do  not  forget  the  little  daisy  in  the  field  that  is  trampled  down  in  the  mud.  Do  you  want  to  be  trampled  down?  Then  lis-  ten  to  me,  men,  for  there  was  a  time  when  old  Sergeant  Stone  himself  near-  ly  fell  to  temptation.  Here  is  how  you  tell  a  Plant  Woman  from  a  real  wom-  an.  When  the  Plant  Woman  rustles  her  hair,  it  will  sound  like  cottonwood  leaves.  The  Air  BEar  Men,  we  have  apicture  now  of  the  Air  Bear,  one  a  the  friendliest  little  fellas  you'd  ever  want  to  meet.  He  is  mischievous  an  will  float  up  to  the  sky  like  a  balloon  or  sometimes  just  disap-  pear  on  you,  but  he  will  be  your  friend  an  is  a  good  tracker  in  apinch.  Do  not  harm  the  Air  Bear  by  pumping  it  up  with  an  air  compressor  or  puncturing  it.  The  Air  Bear  lives  on  Moon  Moss-  Moon  Moss  Thank  you-Moon  Moss.  Moon  Moss  grows  down  in  yellow  strings  no  thicker  than  spiderwebs  from  the  clouds  where  the  moonlight  hits  them.  You  can  only  see  it  at  night.  If  you  want  to  gather  some  for  your  Air  Bear,  take  your  standard-issue  Spool  (Gath-  ering,  Moon  Moss,  Telphinian,  Mod-  el  J)  an  just  wind  it  up.  You  will  have  great  fun  watchingyour  Air  Bear  rip  the  Moon  Moss  off  a  the  spool  at  sev-  eral  metres  per  second.  After  feeding  on  Moon  Moss  the  Air  Bear  will  light  up  anbounce  around  your  camp.  For  us  humans,  Moon  Moss  is  used  in  R.  and  R.  camps  as  a  mild,  nonaddic-  tive  stimulant,  an  I  want  to  tell  you,  you  ain't  lived  till  you've  got  high  on  Moon  Moss  in  the  company  of  a  couple  dozen  Air  Bears.  The  Spring  SylpH  We  do  not  have  a  picture  of  the  Spring  Sylph.  Being  a  shy  woodland  creature,  it  will  not  allow  itself  to  be  filmed.  However,  Spring  Sylphs  are  our  guides  to  the  people  of  Telphinus  4,  so  maintaining  good  relations  with  the  Sylphs  is  a  high-priority  item.  If  while  on  recon  you  should  see  a  Spring  Sylph  by  a  clear  pool  deep  in  the  woods,  do  not  alarm  it  but  inform  your  com-  pany  commander  immediately.  He  will  communicate  to  the  Sylph  four  highly  classified  words  an  the  Sylph  will  con-  duct  you  to  a  huge  hollow  tree,  which  is  visible  only  when  the  Sylph  wishes  it  an  which  leads  to  the  mysteriouscav-  erns  of  'Telphinus  4,  where  the  Tel-  phinian  people  live.  The  People  or  Telphinus  4  As  you  can  see,  the  Telphinian  peo-  ple  look  much  like  you  an  me,  only  they  are  a  head  taller,  with  very  pale  skin.  They  are  slim  an  not  very  strong.  They  eat  no  food  an  their  wine,  though  powerful,  is  for  religious  purposes  only.  They  have  great  big  white  eyes  that  are  a  little  sickening  to  look  at  at  first,  like  egg  whites  on  the  morning  after.  But  down  in  the  caves  the  Telphinians  are  friendly  an  cooperative.  They  have  let  us  study  them  an  mine  fuel  for  our  ships.  Live  an  let  live  is  their  motto,  but  there  is  one  thing  to  remember  when  among  the  Telphinians.  That  is:  Do  not  fool  with  thechildren.  They  hatch  from  eggs,  an  each  child  lives  in  a  gar-  den  ofseveral  hunnert  acres  down  be-  low  their  parents'  estates.  Many  times  the  Telphinian  children  do  not  realize  who  they  are  until  they  are  forty  or  fifty  years  old,  an  this  has  puzzled  Army  scientists.  One  day  the  child  will  climb  a  tree  to  the  dome  above  his  garden  an  squeeze  a  little  red  bulb.  The  bulb  glows  up  above  in  the  parents'  living  room,  an  the  parents  then  ring  some  bells-which  is  the  moment  of  adult-  hood.  Special  lights  goon  in  all  the  Telphinian  houses  an  temples  an  it  is  a  great  time  in  the  caverns.  Everything  is  so  bright  an  pure  you  will  have  to  stop  your  work.  Strange  birds  will  fly  an  the  Air  Bears  will  perform  tricks  an  the  Sylphs  will  dance  until  dawn.  Everybody  will  drink  Moon  Moss  tea,  an  before  long  you  will  not  feel  there  is  any  difference  between  you  an  a  Tel-  phinian.  If  you  look  in  a  mirror,  you  will  think  you  are  a  'Telphinian,  an  want  to  take  a  Telphinian  as  your  wife,  an  wait  for  the  children  to  app\xc3\xa9ar.  However,  men,  this  state  soon  passes.  You  are  men,  you  will  be  men,  an  men  must  work.  You  will  see  that  the  Tel-  phinian  is  harmless  an  not  ambitious  like  you  an  me.  They  do  not  talk  much,  being  telepathic,  though  some-  times  they  will  break  intoa  song,  which  is  real  pretty.  That's  all  for  today,  men.  I  will  see  you  tomorrow  at  ten  hunnert  hours.  Oh  an  by  the  way,  men,  there  is  no  time  on  Telphinus  4,  an  you  will  not  age  while  there.  Smoke  if  you  have  them. "