 b"IN  a  high  wind  the  leaves  fall  from  the  trees,  The  zombies  are  stand-  ing  about  talking.  &quot;Beautiful  day!&quot;  &quot;Certainly  is!&quot;  The  zombies  have  come  to  buy  wives  from  the  people  of  this  village,  the  only  village  for  miles  around  that  will  sell  wives  to  zombies.  &quot;Beautiful  day!&quot;  &quot;Certainly  is!&quot;  The  zombies  have  brought  many  cattle.  The  bride  price  to  a  zombie  is  exactly  twice  that  asked  of  an  ordinary  man.  The  cattle  are  also  zombies  and  the  zombies  are  in  terror  lest  the  people  of  the  vil-  lage  understand  this.  These  are  good  zombies.  Gris  Grue  said  so.  They  are  painted  white  all  over.  Bad  zombies  are  unpainted  and  weep  with  their  noses,  their  nostrils  spew-  ing  tears.  The  village  chief  calls  the  attention  of  the  zombies  to  the  fine  brick  buildings  of  the  village,  some  of  them  one  thousand  bricks  high-daugh-  ters  peering  from  the  windows,  green  plants  in  some  windows  and,  in  others,  daughters.  &quot;You  must  promise  not  to  tell  the  Bishop,&quot;  say  the  zombies,  &quot;promise  not  to  tell  the  Bishop,  beauti-  ful  day,  certainly  is.&quot;  The  white-painted  zombies  chatter  madly,  in  the  village  square,  in  an  im-  personation  of  gaiety.  &quot;Bought  a  new  coat!&quot;  &quot;You  did!&quot;  &quot;Yes,  bought  a  new  coat,  this  coat  I'm  wearing,  I  think  it's  very  fine!&quot;  &quot;Oh  it  is,  it  is,  yes  I  think  so!&quot;  The  cattle  kick  at  the  chain-link  fence  of  the  corral.  The  kiss  of  a  dying  animal,  a  dying  horse  or  dog,  transforms  an  ordinary  man  into  a  zombie.  The  owner  of  the  ice-cream  shop  has  two  daughters.  The  crayfish  farmer  has  five  daughters,  and  the  cap-  tain  of  the  soccer  team,  whose  parents  are  dead,  has  a  sister.  Gris  Grue  is  not  here.  He  is  away  in  another  country,  seeking  a  specific  for  deadly  nightshade.  A  zombie  with  a  rectal  thermometer  is  creeping  around  in  the  corral,  under  the  bellies  of  the  large,  reddish-brown  animals.  Someone  says  the  Bishop  has  been  seen  riding  in  his  car  at  full  speed  toward  the  village.  If  a  bad  zombie  gets  you,  he  will  weep  on  you,  or  take  away  your  whis-  key,  or  hurt  your  daughter's  bones.  There  aretoo  many  daughters  in  the  square,  in  the  windows  of  the  build-  ings,  and  not  enough  husbands.  If  a  bad  zombie  gets  you,  he  will  scratch  your  white  paint  with  awls  and  scari-  fiers.  The  good  zombies  skitter  and  dance.  &quot;Did  you  seethat  lady?  Would  that  lady  marry  me?  I  don't  know!  Oh  what  a  pretty  lady!  Would  that  lady  marry  me?  I  don't  know!&quot;  The  beer  distributor  has  set  up  a  keg  of  beer  in  the  square.  The  local  singing  teacher  is  singing.  The  zombies  say:  &quot;Wonderful  time!  Beautiful  day!  Marvellous  singing!  Excellent  beer!  Would  that  lady  marry  me?  I  don't  know!&quot;  In  a  high  wind  the  leaves  fall  from  the  trees,  from  the  trees.  HE  zombie  hero  Gris  Grue  said:  ''There  are  good  zombies  and  bad  zombies,  as  there  are  good  and  bad  or-  dinary  men.&quot;  Gris  Grue  said  that  many  of  the  zombies  known  to  him  were  clearly  zombies  of  the  former  kind  and  thus  eminently  fit,  in  his  judgment,  to  engage  in  trade,  lead  important  enterprises,  hold  posts  in  the  government,  and  participate  in  the  mysteries  of  Baptism,  Confirmation,  Ordination,  Marriage,  Penance,  the  Eucharist,  and  Extreme  Unction.  The  Bishop  said  no.  The  zombies  sent  many  head  of  cattle  to  the  Bishop.  The  Bishop  said,  Everything  but  Ordina-  tion.  If  a  bad  zombie  gets  you,  he  will  create  insult  in  your  bladder.  The  bad  zombies  banged  the  Bishop's  car  with  a  dead  cow,  at  night.  In  the  morning  the  Bishop  had  to  pull  the  dead  zombie  cow  from  the  windscreen  of  his  car,  and  cut  his  hand.  Gris  Grue  decides  who  is  a  good  zombie  and  who  is  a  bad  zombie;  when  he  is  away,  his  wife's  mother  decides.  A  zombie  advances  toward  a  group  of  thin  blooming  daughters  and  de-  scribes,  with  many  motions  of  his  hands  and  arms,  the  breakfasts  they  may  ex-  pect  in  a  zombie  home.  &quot;Monday!&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Sliced  oranges  boiled  grits  fried  croakers  potato  cro-  quettes  radishes  watercress  broiled  spring  chicken  batter  cakes  butter  syrup  and  caf\xc3\xa9  au  lait!  Tuesday!  Grapes  hominy  broiled  tenderloin  of  trout  steak  French-friedpo-  tatoes  celery  fresh  rolls  but-  ter  and  caf\xc3\xa9  au  lait!  Wednes-  day!  Iced  figs  Wheatena  porgies  with  sauce  tartare  potato  chips  broiled  ham  scrambled  eggs  French  toast  and  caf\xc3\xa9  au  lait!  Thursday!  Bananas  with  cream  oatmeal  broiled  patassas  fried  liver  with  bacon  poached  eggs  on  toast  waffles  with  syrup  and  caf\xc3\xa9  au  lait!  Friday!  Strawberries  with  cream  broiled  oysters  on  toast  celery  fried  perch  lyonnaise  potatoes  cornbread  with  syrup  and  caf\xc3\xa9  au  lait!  Saturday!  Muskmelon  on  ice  grits  stewed  tripe  herb  omelette  olives  snipe  on  toast  flan-  nel  cakes  with  syrup  and  caf\xc3\xa9  au  lait!&quot;  The  zombie  draws  a  long  breath.  &quot;Sunday!&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Peaches  with  cream  cracked  wheat  with  milk  broiled  Spanish  mackerel  with  sauce  maitre  d'hotel  creamed  chicken  beaten  biscuits  broiled  woodcock  on  English  muffin  rice  cakes  potatoes  a  la  duchesse  eggs  Benedict  oysters  on  the  half  shell  broiled  lamb  chops  pound  cake  with  syrup  and  caf\xc3\xa9  au  lait!  And  imported  champagne!&quot;  The  zombies  look  anx-  iously  atthe  women  to  see  if  this  pros-  pect  is  pleasing.  A  houngan  (zombie-maker)  grasps  a  man  by  the  hair  and  forces  his  lips  close  to  those  of  a  dying  cat.  If  you  do  heavy  labor  for  a  houngan  for  ten  years,  then  you  are  free,  but  still  a  zom-  bie.  The  Bishop's  car  is  working  well.  No  daughter  of  this  village  has  had  in  human  memory  a  true  husband,  or  anything  like  it.  The  daughters  are  tired  of  kissing  each  other,  although  some  are  not.  The  fathers  of  the  vil-  lage  are  tired  of  paying  for  their  daughters'  sewing  machines,  lowboys,  and  towels,  A  bald  zombie  says,  &quot;Oh  what  a  pretty  lady!  I  would  be  nice  to  her!  Yes  I  would!  I  think  so!&quot;  Bad  zombies  are  leaning  against  the  walls  of  the  buildings,  watching.  Bad  zombies  are  allowed,  bylaw,  to  mate  only  with  sheep  ticks.  The  women  do  not  want  the  zombies,  but  zombies  are  their  por-  tion.  A  woman  says  to  another  woman:  &quot;'These  guys  are  zombies!&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  says  the  second  woman,  &quot;I  saw  a  hand-  some  man,  he  had  his  picture  in  the  paper,  but  he  is  not  here.&quot;  The  zombie  in  the  corral  finds  a  temperature  of  a  hundred  and  ten  degrees.  The  villagers  are  beating  upon  huge  drums  with  mops.  The  Bishop  arrives  in  his  great  car  with  white  episcopal  flags  flying  from  theright  and  left  fend-  ers.  &quot;Forbidden,  forbidden,  forbidden!&quot;  he  cries.  Gris  Grue  appears  on  a  silver  sled  and  places  his  hands  over  the  Bishop's  eyes.  At  the  mo-  ment  of  sunset  the  couples,  two  by  two,  are  wed.  The  corral  shudders  asthe  cattle  collapse.  The  new  wives  turn  to  their  new  husbands  and  say:  &quot;No  matter.  This  is  what  we  must  do.  We  will  paste  photographs  of  the  handsome  man  in  the  photograph  onyour  faces,  when  it  is  time  to  go  to  bed.  Now  let  us  cut  the  cake.&quot;  The  good  zombies  say,  &quot;You're  welcome!  You're  very  welcome!  I  think  so!  Undoubtedly!&quot;  The  bad  zombies  place  sheep  ticks  in  the  Bishop's  car.  If  a  bad  zombie  gets  you,  he  will  scarify  your  hide  with  chisels  and  rakes.If  a  bad  zombie  gets  you,  he  will  make  you  walk  past  a  beautiful  breast  without  even  noticing. "