 b"LIFE  on  the  farm  isn't  easy,  what  with  the  pigs  to  feed,  the  cows  to  milk,  the  fields  to  plow,  the  pies  to  bake,  the  victuals  to  store  away  forthe  wintertime,  the  cows  to  kick  when  they  won't  get  along  home,  the  grasshoppers  to  worry  about,the  heat,  the  sweat,  the  clothes,  the  silliness  on  Sundays,  the  dusty  roads.  Why,  you've  got  to  set  your  alarm  clock  for  five,  you've  got  to  cook  breakfast,eat  it,  drink  coffee,  not  saytoo  much  because  you  just  got  up,  go  outside,  feel  the  weather  on  your  face,  be  serious  about  your  work,  pay  attention  to  the  animals.  Now,  if  we  lived  in  a  pure-  ly  agrarian  society,  these  procedures  would  be  second  nature  to  us  all.  As  it  is,  they  sound  powerful  weird  to  most  of  us.  But  most  of  us  are  not  sitting  in  a  slow-creaking  rocker  on  a  warped-floor  porch  with  a  thunderstorm  coming.  Cumulus  clouds  tumbling  in  from  the  west.  The  sniff  of  tornado  on  the  air.  Is  the  farmer  concerned?  No,  hecon-  tinues  to  rock,  rock,rock,  until  he  sud-  denly  finds  himself  three  miles  above  Nassau  and  heading  north  by  north-  east  toward  the  Hebrides,  a  place  he  has  always  dreamed  of  in  his  dreams,  dreaming  in  the  fields  as  he  tossed  that  bale.  He  lands  lightly  like  a  feather  horse  on  the  shore  of  an  isle.  No  one  knows  he  has  arrived.  The  ponies  go  on  with  their  grazing.  The  farmer  tip-  toes  acrossthe  sand,  dragging  his  rock-  ing  chair.  The  ponies  are  trained  not  to  fear  strangers  arriving  by  tornado,  hurricane,  or  hydroplane.  (Motorboat,  yes.)  They  raise  their  heads,  flutter  their  manes  with  a  twist  of  the  neck,  and  trot  toward  stone-walledgar-  dens.  The  farmer  wants  to  know  all     about  this  magical  place.  He  knocks  at  a  cottage  door.  No  one  answers.  He  tries  another.  Still  no  answer.  At  a  third,  dead  silence  from  within.  At  a  fourth-that's  where  the  party  is.  They  ask  him  for  his  membership  card.  Naturally  he  can't  produce  one,  but  they're  so  drunk  and  charitable  that  they  say  his  farmer's  co-op  card  will  do.  He  enters.  He  drinks.  He  tells  his  story.  Few  believe  him.  They  offer  him  a  job  sweeping  floors  for  one  meal  and  two  pints  a  day.  He  accepts.  It's  better  than  wading  with  the  hogs,  he  figures,  or  mimicking  thechickens,  staying  shy  of  the  kingpin  rooster,  shoo-  ing  motorcycles  off  the  dirt  road,  damned  kids,  watching  the  elm  get  it  from  lightning,  seeing  young  wheat  get  hit  by  hail,  going  tongue-tied  at  the  co-  op  meeting,  falling  for  somebody  else's  wife  but  always  missing  the  chance  to  tell  her  so,  and  when  you  tell  her  so,  getting  a  sourdough  smile  and  aminis-  ter's  reprimand  behind  closed  barn  doors  until  thehorse,  the  one  good  horse  you've  got,  throws  its  shoe  clear  across  the  barn  and  hits  the  minister  in  the  head  while  he's  bent  over  tying  his  shoe.  He  thinks  you  did  it,  because  when  he  looks  up  and  when  the  pain  subsides  enough  so  that  he  can  see,  he  can  see  that  you  are  laughing.  You  lie  to  him,  another  sin,  and  tell  him  that  what  he  sees  imprinted  on  your  face  is  not  the  hoofmark  of  the  Devil  but  a  grimace  of  sympathetic  pain,  be-  cause  you  know  how  painful  it  is  to  get  clobbered  in  the  brains  with  a  shoe  designed  to  fit  and  protect  the  footof  a  horse,  a  very  large  animal.  Still,  he  can't  believe  that  a  horse  could  have  such  good  aim,  so  he  lays  the  blame  on  you,  cursing  you,  using  the  name  of  the  Lord  thy  God  in  vain,  only  one  exam-  ple  of  his  versatility  in  the  art  of  fling-  ing  swears  in  the  faces  of  his  parishion-  ers.  He  stumps  off,  dusting  his  hat,  and  you're  left  to  ponder  your  position  in  the  community  as  well  as  in  the  Great  Chain  of  Being.  You  suspect  that  the  minister  will  be  more  concerned  with  twisting  your  true  reputation  as  a  hard-  working  man  of  the  land.  Sunlight  filters  down  from  the  loft.  The  horse  stomps,  pleased  with  it-  self.  You  put  your  fingers  on  your  pulse  and  count  the  beats,  There  are  quite  a  few,  and  you  lose  track  after  three  hundred.  Your  wife  is  waiting  outside  the  door.  A  crow  flutters  near  the  telephone  pole.  Your  wife  wants  to  know  what  all  the  shouting  was  about.  She  suspects  something  is  afoot.  Her  decision  in  the  past  has  been  to  try  extra  hard.  But  now  she  has  decided  to  take  the  offensive.  You  are  always  finding  her  offensive  lately.  Shestomps  and  chomps  just  like  a  goddam  horse,  and  you  don't  hesitate  to  tell  her  so.  You  hate  her  now.  And  shehates  you,  and  it's  finally  out  in  the  open.  Too  many  yearsspent  hammering  away  at  each  other  inside  that  lily-white  farm-  house  with  the  out-of-tune  piano  and  the  brown-edged  sheet  music,  the  mashed  potatoes  on  Sunday,  the  special-  delivery  boy  made  to  wait  outside  the  door,  the  kittens,  the  sticky  lollipops  left  lying  on  the  dining-room  table,  the  Ping-Pong  table  in  the  basement-how  many  times  have  you  broken  the  light  bulb  trying  for  a  smash?-the  long  winters,  the  sitting  and  watching  the  cracked  moldings  where  howls  must  have  pushed  their  way  through,  the  pretty  fireplace,  the  silence  when  you  read  the  damned  Bible  in  the  damned  black-walnut  rocking  chair,  the  cow  kicking  and  fighting  wild  against  some  curling  arm  of  winter  that  had  tried  to  wrap  it  like  a  scarf,  you  saying  &quot;I'll  go  see  what's  wrong&quot;  and  her  instant  resentment  for  no  reason  in  the  world  that  you  could  imagine,  andyou  stay-  ing  out  in  the  cold  longer  than  was  needed  just  to  be  away  from  the  coldof  her.  Coming  in,  stomping  your  boots,  calling  out  her  name,  knocking  a  clean  glass  off  the  counter  on  purpose,  asking  her  to  sweep  it  up  because  your  hands  were  too  cold.  Going  to  the  fire  and  dreaming  of  your  boyhood  and  what  a  stack  of  hockey  cards  could  do  for  you  when  you'd  whirl  them  into  the  flames  one  by  one:  Pulford,  Rich-  ard,  Armstrong,  Moore,  one  by  one,  the  face  going  black,  bubbling,  a  blue  flame  shooting  from  the  edge,  the  curl,  the  flare,  and  gray  ashes. "