 b"AS  soon  as  it  got  light,  Bet  woke  him  and  dressed  him,  and  then  she  walked  him  over  to  the  ta-  ble  and  tried  to  make  him  eat  a  little  cereal.  He  wouldn't,  though.  He  could  tell  something  was  up.  She  pressed  the  edge  of  the  spoon  against  his  lips  till  she  heard  it  click  on  his  teeth,  but  he  just  looked  off  at  a  corner  of  the  ceil-  ing-a  knobby  child  with  great  glassy  eyes  and  her  own  fair  hair.  Like  any  other  nine-year-old,  he  wore  a  striped  shirt  and  jeans,  but  the  shirt  was  too  neat  and  the  jeans  too  blue,  unpatched  and  unfaded,  and  would  staythat  way  till  he  outgrew  them.  And  his  face  was  elderly-pinched,  strained,  tired-  though  it  should  have  looked  as  unused  as  his  jeans.  He  hardly  ever  changed  his  expression.  She  left  him  in  his  chair  and  went  to  make  the  beds.  Then  she  raised  the  yellowed  shade,  rinsed  a  few  spoons  in  the  bathroom  sink,  picked  up  some  bits  of  magazines  he'dtorn  the  night  be-  fore.  This  was  a  rented  room  in  an  ancient,  crumbling  house,  and  nothing  you  could  do  to  it  would  lighten  its  cluttered  look.  There  was  always  that  feeling  of  too  many  lives  layered  over  other  lives,  like  the  layers  of  brownish  wallpaper  her  child  had  peeled  away  in  the  corner  by  his  bed.  She  slipped  her  feet  into  flat-heeled  loafers  and  absently  patted  the  front  of  her  dress,  a  worn  beige  knit  she  usually  saved  for  Sundays.  Maybe  she  should  take  it  in  a  little;  it  hung  from  her  shoulders  like  a  sack.  She  felt  too  slight  and  frail,  too  wispy  for  all  she  had  to  do  today.  But  she  reached  for  her  coat  anyhow,  and  put  it  on  and  tied  a  blue kerchief  under  her  chin.  Then  she  went  over  to  the  table  and  slowly  spun,  modelling  the  coat.  &quot;See,  Arnold?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;We're  going  out.&quot;  Arnold  went  on  looking  at  the  ceil-  ing,  but  his  gaze  turned  wild  and  she  knew  he'd  heard.  She  fetched  his  jacket  from  the  closet-brown  corduroy,  with  a  hood.  It  had  set  her  back  half  a  week's  salary.  But  Arnold  didn't  like  it;  he  always  wanted  his  old  one,  a  little  red  duffel  coat  he'd  long  ago  outgrown.  When  she  came  toward  him,  he  started  moan-  ing  and  rocking  and  shaking  his  head.  She  had  to  struggle  to  stuff  his  arms  in  the  sleeves.  Small  though  he  was,  he  was  strong,  wiry;  he  was  getting  to  be  too  much  for  her.  He  shook  free  of  her  hands  and  ran  over  to  his  bed.  The  jacket  was  on,  though.  It  wasn't  but-  toned,  the  collar  was  askew,  but  never  mind;  that  just  made  him  look  more  real.  She  always  felt  bad  at  how  he  stood  inside  his  clothes,  separate  from  them,  passive,  unaware  of  all  the  but-  tons  and  snaps  she'd  fastened  as  care-  fully  as  she  would  a  doll's.  She  gave  a  last  look  around  the  room,  checked  to  make  sure  the  hot  plate  was  off,  and  then  picked  up  her  purse  and  Arnold's  suitcase.  &quot;Come  along,  Arnold,&quot;  she  said.  He  came,  dragging  out  every  step.  He  looked  at  the  suitcase  suspiciously,  but  only  because  it  was  new.  It  didn't  have  any  meaning  for  him.  &quot;See?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It's  yours.  It's  Arnold's.  It's  go-  ing  on  the  train  with  us.&quot;  But  her  voice  was  all  wrong.  He  would  pick  it  up,  for  sure.  She  paused  in  the  middle  of  locking  the  door  and  glanced  over  at  him  fearfully.  Any-  thing  could  set  him  off  nowadays.  He  hadn't  noticed,  though.  He  was  too  busy  staring  around  the  hallway,  goggling  at  a  freckled,  walnut-framed  mirror  as  if  he'd  never  seen  it  before.  She  touched  his  shoulder.  &quot;Come,  Arnold,&quot;  she  said.  They  went  down  the  stairs  slowly,  both  of  them  clinging  to  the  sticky  ma-  hogany  railing.  The  suitcase  banged  against  her  shins.  In  the  entrance  hall,  old  Mrs.  Puckett  stood  waiting  outside  her  door-a  huge,  soft  lady  in  a  black  cr\xc3\xa9pe  dress  and  orthopedic  shoes.  She  was  holding  a  plastic  bag  of  peanut-  butter  cookies,  Arnold's  favorites.  There  were  tears  in  her  eyes.  &quot;Here,  Arnold,&quot;  she  said,  quavering.  Maybe  she  felt  to  blame  that  he  was  going.  But  she'd  done  the  best  she  could  :  baby-  sat  him  all  these  years  and  only  given  up  when  he'd  grown  too  strong  and  wild  to  manage.  Bet  wished  Arnold  would  give  theold  lady  some  sign-  " b"hug  her,  make  his  little  crowing  noise,  just  take  the  cookies,  even.  But  he  was  too  excited.  He  raced  on  out  the  frontdoor,  and  it  was  Bet  who  had  to  take  them.  &quot;Well,  thank  you,  Mrs.  Puckett,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  know  he'll  enjoy  them  later.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  no  ...&quot;  said  Mrs.  Puckett,  and  she  flapped  her  large  hands  and  gave  up,  sobbing.  They  were  lucky  and  caught  a  bus  first  thing.  Ar-  nold  sat  by  the  window.  He  must  have  thought  he  was  going  to  work  with  her;  when  they  passed  the  red-and-gold  Kresge's  sign,  he  jabbered  and  tried  to  stand  up.  &quot;No,  honey,&quot;  she  said,  and  took  hold  of  his  arm.  He  settled  down  then  and  let  his  hand  stay  curled  in  hers  awhile.  He  had  very  small,  cool  fingers,  and  nails  as  smooth  as  thumbtack  heads.  At  the  train  station,  she  bought  the  tickets  and  then  a  pack  of  Wrigley's  spearmint  gum.  Arnold  stood  gaping  at  the  vaulted  ceiling,  with  his  head  flopped  back  and  his  arms  hanging  limp  at  his  sides.  People  stared  at  him.  She  would  have  liked  to  push  their  faces  in.  &quot;Over  here,  honey,&quot;  she  said,  and  she  nudged  him  toward  the  gate,  straightening  his  collaras  they  walked.  E  hadn't  been  on  a  train  before  and  acted  a  little  nervous,  bounc-  ing  up  and  down  in  his  seat  and  flipping  the  lid  of  his  ashtray  and  craning  for-  ward  to  see  the  man  ahead  of  them.  When  the  train  started  moving,  he  crowed  and  pulled  at  her  sleeve.  &quot;That's  right,  Arnold.  Train,  We're  taking  a  trip,&quot;  Bet  said.  She  unwrapped  a  stick  of  chewing  gum  and  gave  it  to  him.  He  loved  gum.  If  she  didn't  watch  him  closely,  he  sometimes  swallowed  it-which  worried  her  a  little  because  she'd  heard  it  clogged  your  kidneys;  but  at  least  it  would  keep  him  busy.  She  looked  down  at  the  top  of  his  head.  Through  the  blond  prickles  of  his  hair,  cut  short  for  practical  reasons,  she  could  see  his  skull  bones  moving  as  he  chewed.  He  was  so  thin-skinned,  al-  most  transparent;  sometimes  she  imag-  ined  she  could  see  the  blood  travelling  in  his  veins.  When  the  train  reached  a  steady  speed,  he  grew  calmer,  and  after  a  while  he  nodded  over  against  her  and  let  his  hands  sag  on  his  knees.  She watched  his  eyelashes  slowly  droop-  ing-two  colorless,  fringed  crescents,  heavier  and  heavier,  every  now  and  then  flying  up  as  he  tried  to  fight  off  sleep.  He  had  never  slept  well,  not  ever,  not  even  as  a  baby.  Even  before  they'd  noticed  anything  wrong,  they'd  wondered  at  his  jittery,  jerky  catnaps,  his  tiny  hands  clutching  tight  and  springing  open,  his  strange  single  wail  sailing  out  while  he  went  right  on  sleeping.  Avery  said  it  gave  him  the  chills  And  after  the  doctor  talked  to  them  Avery  wouldn't  have  anything  to  do  with  Arnold  anymore-just  walked  in  wide  circles  around  the  crib,  looking  stunned  and  sick.  A  few  weeks  later,  he  left.  She  wasn't  surprised.  She  even  knew  how  he  felt,  more  or  less.  Half-  way,  he  blamed  her;  halfway,  he  blamed  himself.  You  can't  believe  a  thing  like  this  will  just  fall  on  you  out  of  nowhere.  She'd  had  moments  herself  of  pic-  turing  some  kind  of  evil  gene  in  her  husband's  ordinary,  stocky  body-a  dark  little  egg  like  a  black  jelly  bean,  she  imagined  it.  All  his  fault.  But  other  times  she  was  sure  the  gene  was  hers.  It  seemed  so  natural;  she  never  could  do  anything  as  well  as  most  peo-  ple.  And  then  other  times  she  blamed  their  marriage.  They'd  married  too  young,  against  her  parents'  wishes.  All  she'd  wanted  was  to  get  away  from  home.  Now  she  couldn't  remember  why.  What  was  wrong  with  home?  She  thought  of  her  parents'  humped  green  trailer,  perched  on  cinder  blocks  near  a  forest  of  masts  in  Salt  Spray,  Mary-  land.  At  this  distance  (parents  dead,  trailer  rusted  to  bits,  even  Salt  Spray  changed  past  recognition),  it  seemed  to  her  that  her  old  life  had  been  beau-  tifully  free  and  spacious.  She  closed  her  eyes  and  saw  wide  gray  skies.  Everything  had  been  ruled  by  the  sea.  Her  father  (who'd  run  a  fishing  boat  for  tourists)  couldn't  arrange  his  day  till  he'd  heard  the  marine  fore-  cast-the  wind,  the  tides,  the  small-  craft  warnings,  the  height  of  aver-  age  waves  in  unprotected  waters.  He  loved  to  fish,  offshore  and  on,  and  he  swam  every  chance  he  could  get.  He'd  tried  to  teach  her  to  bodysurf,  but  it  hadn't  worked  out.  Therewas  something  about  the  breakers:  she  just  gritted  her  teeth  and  stood  staunch  and  let  them  slam  intoher.  As  if  standing  staunch  were  a  virtue,  really.  She  couldn't  explain  it.  Her  father  thought  she  was  scared,  but  it  wasn't  that  at  all.  She'd  married  Avery  against  their  wishes  and  been  sorry  ever  since-  sorry  to  move  so  far  from  home,  sorrier  when  her  parents  died  within  a  year  of  each  other,  sorriest  of  all  when  the  marriage  turned  grim  and  cranky.  But  she  never  would  have  thought  of  leaving  him.  It  was  Avery  who  left;  she  would  have  stayed  forever.  In  fact,  shedid  stay  on  in  their  apartment  for  months  after  he'd  gone,  though  the  rent  was  far  too  high,  It  wasn't  that     " b"she  expected  him  back.  She  just  took  some  comfort  from  enduring.  Arnold's  head  snapped  up.  He  looked  around  him  and  made  a  gur-  gling  sound.  His  chewing  gum  fell  onto  the  front  of  his  jacket.  &quot;Here,  honey,&quot;  she  told  him.  She  put  the  gum  in  her  ashtray.  &quot;Look  out  the  window.  See  the  cows?&quot;  He  wouldn't  look.  He  began  bounc-  ing  in  his  seat,  rubbing  his  hands  to-  gether  rapidly.  &quot;Arnold?  Want  a  cookie?&quot;  If  only  she'd  brought  apicture  book.  She'd  meant  to  and  then  forgot.  She  wondered  if  the  train  people  sold  magazines.  If  she  let  him  get  too  bored,  he'd  go  into  one  of  his  tantrums,  and  then  she  wouldn't  be  able  to  handle  him.  The  doctor  had  given  her  pills  just  incase,  but  she  was  always  afraid  that  while  he  was  screaming  he  would  choke  on  them.  She  looked  around  the  car.  &quot;Arnold,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;see  the  ...  see  the  hat  with  feathers  on?  Isn't  it  pretty?  See  the  red  suitcase?  See  the,  um  ...&quot;  The  car  door  opened  with  a  rush  of  clattering  wheels  and  the  conductor  burst  in,  singing  &quot;Girl  of  my  dreams,  I  love  you.&quot;  He  lurched  down  the  aisle,  plucking  pink  tickets  from  the  back  of  each  seat.  Just  across  from  Bet  and  Arnold,  he  stopped.  He  was  look-  ing  down  at  a  tiny  black  lady  in  a  purple  coat,  with  a  fox  fur  piece  biting  its  own  tail  around  her  neck.  &quot;You!&quot;  he  said.  The  lady  stared  straight  ahead.  You,  I  saw  you.  You're  the  one  in  the  washroom.&quot;  A  little  muscle twitched  in  her  cheek.  &quot;You  got  on  this  train  in  Beulah,  didn't  you,  Snuck  in  the  washroom.  Darted  back  like  you  thought  you  could  put  something  over  on  me.  I  saw  that  bit  of  purple!  Where's  your  ticket  gone  to?&quot;  She  started  fumbling  in  a  blue  cloth  purse.  The  fumbling  went  onand  on.  The  conductor  shifted  his  weight.  &quot;Why!&quot;  she  said  finally.  &quot;I  must've  left  it  back  in  my  other  seat.&quot;  &quot;What  other  seat?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  the  one  back  ...&quot;  She  waved  a  spidery  hand.  The  conductor  sighed.  &quot;Lady,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;you  owe  me  money.&quot;  &quot;I  do  no  such  thing!&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Viper!  Monger!  Hitler!&quot;  Her  voice  screeched  up  all  at  once;  she  sounded  like  a  parrot.  Bet  winced  and  felt  her-  self  flushing,  as  if  she  were  the  one.  But  then  at  her  shoulder  she  heard  a  sudden,  rusty  clang,  and  she  turned  and  saw  that  Arnold  was  laughing.  He  had  his  mouth  wide  open  and  his  tongue  curled,  the  way  he  did  when  he  watched  &quot;Sesame  Street.&quot;  Even  after  the  scene  had  worn  itself  out,  and  the  lady  had  paid  and  the  conductor  had  moved  on,  Arnold  went  on  chor-  tling  and  la-la-ing,  and  Bet  looked  gratefully  at  the  little  black  lady,  who  was  settling  her  fur  piece  fussily  and  muttering  under  her  breath.  ROM  the  Parkinsville  Railroad  Station,  which  they  seemed  to  be  tearing  down  or  else  remodelling-she  couldn't  tell  which-they  took  a  taxi-  cab  to  Parkins  State  Hospital.  &quot;Oh,  I  been  out  there  many  and  many  a  time,&quot;  said  the  driver,  &quot;Went  out  there  just  the  other-&quot;  But  she  couldn't  stop  herself;  she  had  to  tell  him  before  she  forgot.  &quot;Listen,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;I  want  you  to  wait  for  me  right  in  the  driveway.  I  don't  want  you  to  go  on  away.&quot;  &quot;Well,  fine,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Can  you  do  that?  I  want  you  to  be  sitting  right  by  the  porch  or  the  steps  or  whatever,  right  where  I  come  out  of,  ready  to  take  me  back  to  the  station.  Don't  just  go  off  and-&quot;  &quot;I  got  you,  I  got  you,&quot;  he  said.  She  sank  back.  She  hoped  he  under-  stood.  Arnold  wanted  a  peanut-butter  cookie.  He  was  reaching  and  whim-  pering.  She  didn't  know  what  to  do.  She  wanted  to  give  him  anything  he  asked  for,  anything;  but  he'd  get  it  all  over  his  face  and  arrive  not  looking  his  best.  She  couldn't  stand  it  if  they  thought  he  was  just  ordinary  and  un-  attractive.  She  wanted  them  tosee  how  small  and  neat  he  was,  how  somebody  cherished  him.  But  it  would  be  awful  if  he  went  into  one  of  his  rages.  She  broke  off  a  little  piece  of  cookie  from  " b"the  bag.  &quot;Here,&quot;  she  told  him,  &quot;Don't  mess,  now.&quot;  He  flung  himself  back  in  the  corner  and  ate  it,  keeping  one  hand  flattened  across  his  mouth  while  he  chewed.  The  hospital  looked  like  someone's  great,  pillared  mansion,  with  square  brick  buildings  all  around  it.  &quot;Here  we  are,&quot;  the  driver  said.  &quot;'Thank  you,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Now  you  wait  here,  please.  Justwait  till  I  get-&quot;  &quot;Lady,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Tl  wait.&quot;  She  opened  the  door  and  nudged  Arnold  out  ahead  of  her.  Lugging  the  suitcase,  she  started  toward  the  steps.  &quot;Come  on,  Arnold,&quot;  she  said.  He  hung  back.  &quot;Arnold?&quot;  Maybe  he  wouldn't  allow  it,  and  they  would  go  on  home  and  never  think  of  this  again.  But  he  came,  finally,  climbing  the  steps  in  his  little  hobbled  way.  His  face  was  clean,  but  there  were  a  few  cookie  crumbs  on  his  jacket.  She  set  down  the  suitcase  to  brush  them  off.  Then  she  buttoned  all  his  buttons  and  smoothed  his  shirt  collar  over  his  jack-  et  collar  before  she  pushed  open  the  door.  In  the  admitting  office,  a  lady  be-  hind  a  wooden  counter  showed  her  what  papers  to  sign.  Secretaries  were  clacketing  typewriters  all  around.  Bet  thought  Arnold  might  like  that,  but  instead  he  got  lost  in  the  lights-chilly,  hanging  ice-cube-tray  lights  with  a  little  flicker  to  them.  He  gazed  up-  ward,  looking  astonished.  Finally  a  flat-fronted  nurse  came  in  and  touched  his  elbow.  &quot;Come  along,  Arnold.  Come,  Mommy.  We'll  show  you  where  Arnold  is  staying,&quot;  she  said.  They  walked  back  across  the  en-  trance  hall,  then  up  wide  marble  steps  with  hollows  worn  in  them.  Arnold  clung  to  the  bannister.  There  was  a  smell  Bet  hated,  pine-oil  disinfectant,  but  Arnold  didn't  seem  to  notice.  You  never  knew;  sometimes  smells  could  just  put  him  in  a  state.  The  nurse  unlocked  a  double  door  that  had  chicken-wired  windows.  They  walked  through  a  corridor,  passing  several  fat,  ugly  women  in  shapeless  gray  dresses  and  ankle  socks.  &quot;Ha!&quot;  one  ofthe  women  said,  and  fell  gig-  gling  into  the  arms  ofa  friend.  The  nurse  said,  &quot;Here  we  are.&quot;  She  led  them  into  an  enormous  hallway  lined  with  little  white  cots.  Nobody  else  was  in  it;  there  wasn't  a  sign  that  children  lived  here  except  for  a  tiny  cardboard  clown  picture  hanging  on  one  vacant  wall.  &quot;This  one  is  your  bed,  Arnold,&quot;  said  the  nurse.  Bet  laid  the  suitcase  on  it.  It  was  made  up  so  neatly,  the  sheets  might  have  been  painted  on.  A  steely-  gray  blanket  was  folded  across  the  foot.  She  looked  over  at  Arnold,  but  he  was  pivoting  back  and  forth  to  hear  how  his  new  sneakers  squeaked  on  the  lino-  leum.  &quot;Usually,&quot;  said  the  nurse,  &quot;we  like  to  give  new  residents  six  months  before  the  family  visits.  That  way  they  settle  in  quicker,  don't  you  see.&quot;  She  turned  away  and  adjusted  the  clown  picture,  though  as  far  as  Bet  could  tell  it  was  fine  the  way  it  was.  Over  her  shoulder,  the  nurse  said,  ''You  can  tell  him  good-  bye  now,  if  you  like.&quot;  &quot;Oh,&quot;  Bet  said.  &quot;All  right.&quot;  She  set  her  hands  on  Arnold's  shoulders.  Then  she  laid  her  face  against  his  hair,  which  felt  warm  and  fuzzy.  &quot;Honey,&quot;  she  said.  But  he  went  on  pivoting.  She  straightened  and  told  the  nurse,  &quot;I  brought  his  special  blanket.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  fine,&quot;  said  the  nurse,  turning  toward  her  again.  &quot;We'll  see  that  he  gets  it.&quot;  &quot;He  always  likes  to  sleep  with  it;  he  has  ever  since  he  was  little.&quot;  &quot;All  right.&quot;  &quot;Don't  wash  it.  He  hates  if  you  wash  it.&quot;  'Yes.  Say  goodbye  to  Mommy  now,  Arnold.&quot;  &quot;A  lot  of  times  he'll  surprise  you.  I  mean  there's  a  whole  lot  to  him.  He's  not  just-&quot;  &quot;We'll  take  very  good  care  of  him,  Mrs.  Blevins,  don't  worry.&quot;  &quot;Well,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;  'Bye,  Arnold.&quot;  She  left  the  ward  with  the  nurse  and  went  down  the  corridor.  As  the  nurse  was  unlocking  the  doors  for  her,  she  heard  a  single,  terrible  scream,  but  the  nurse  only  patted  her  shoulder  and  pushed  her  gently  on  through.  In  the  taxi,  Bet  said,  &quot;Now,  I've  just  got  fifteen  minutes  to  get  to  " b"the  station.  I  wonder  if  you  could  hurry?&quot;  &quot;Sure  thing,&quot;  the  driver  said.  She  folded  her  hands  and  looked  straight  ahead.  Tears  seemed  to  be  coming  down  her  face  in  sheets.  NCE  she'd  reached  the  station,  she  went  to  the  ticket  window.  &quot;Am  I  in  time  forthe  twelve-thirty-two?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;Easily,&quot;  said  the  man.  &quot;It's  twenty  minutes  late.&quot;  &quot;What?&quot;  &quot;Got  held  up  in  Norton  somehow.&quot;  &quot;But  you  can't!&quot;  she  said.  The  man  looked  startled.  She  must  be  a  sight,  all  swollen-eyed  and  wet-cheeked.  &quot;Look,&quot;  she  said,  in  a  lower  voice.  &quot;I  figured  this  on  purpose.  I  chose  the  one  train  from  Beulah  that  would  let  me  catch  another  one  back  without  waiting.  I  do  not  want  to  sit  and  wait  in  this  station.&quot;  &quot;Twenty  minutes,  lady.  That's  all  it  is.&quot;  &quot;What  am  I  going  to  do?&quot;  she  asked  him.  He  turned  back  to  his  ledgers.  She  went  over  to  a  bench  and  sat down.  Ladders  and  scaffolding  tow-  ered  above  her,  and  only  ten  or  twelve  passengers  were  dotted  through  the  rest  of  the  station.  The  place  looked  bombed  out-nothing  but  a  shell.  &quot;Twenty  minutes!&quot;  she  said  aloud.  &quot;What  am  I  going  to  do?&quot;  Through  the  double  glass  doors  at  the  far  end  ofthe  station,  a  procession  of  gray-suited  men  arrived  with  brief-  cases.  More  men  came  behind  them,  dressed  in  work  clothes,  carrying  fold-  ing  chairs,  black  trunklike  boxes  with  silver  hinges,  microphones,  a  wooden  lectern,  and  an  armload  of  bunting.  They  set  the  lectern  down  in  the  center  of  the  floor,  not  six  feet  from  Bet.  They  draped  the  bunting  across  it-an  arc  of  red,  white,  and  blue.  Wires  were  connected,  floodlights  were  lit.  A  microphone  screeched.  One  of  the  workmen  said,  &quot;Try  her,  Mayor.&quot;  He  held  the  microphone  out  to  a  fat  man  in  a  suit,  who  cleared  his  throat  and  said,  &quot;Ladies  and  gen-  tlemen,  on  the  occasion  of  the  ex-  pansion  of  this  fine  old  railway  sta-  ton-&quot;  &quot;Sure  do  get  an  echo  here,&quot;  the  workman  said.  &quot;Keep  on  going.&quot;  The  Mayor  cleared  his  throat  again.  &quot;If  I  may,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;I'd  like  to  take  about  twenty  minutes  of  your  time,  friends.&quot;  He  straightened  his  tie.  Bet  blew  her  nose,  and  then  she  wiped  her  eyes  and  smiled.  'They  had  come  just  for  her  sake,  you  might  think.  They  were  putting  on  a  sort  ofprivate  play.  From  now  on,  all  the  world  was  going  to  be  like  that-just  something  on  a  stage,  for  her  to  sit  back  and  watch.  "