 b"THERE  the  chest  stands,  in  the  living  room,  colossal,  the  sturdi-  est  thing  in  the  house,  though  it's  four  hundred  years  old.  It  comes  from  Tuscany,  where  it  was  made,  prob-  ably  in  Florence.  With  its  jutting  bev-  elled  top  and  its  corniced  drawers,  it  reminds  me  of  a  palace,  the  Farnese,  each  drawer  a  floor,  the  wrought-iron  handles  like  great  window  frames,  and  firmly  founded  on  four  squat,  almost  invisible  feet.  And  it  reminds  me  of  the  man  it  belonged  to-our  bailiff-and  the  way  it  came  to  us  from  him,  and  his  disgrace.  He  was  thrust  upon  us,  this  bailiff,  or  foreman:  thrust  upon  my  father  by  my  grandfather-a  professor  of  law  in  Rome-who  bought  the  estate  near  Si-  ena,  in  the  Chianti  district  of  4974616c79,  for  his  son,  my  father,  who  knew  nothing  about  farming,  who  was  a  writer,  a  philosopher,  in  the  hope  that  he  might be  able  to  make  his  living  from  it,  and,  of  course,  as  an  investment.  So  at  my  grandfather's  bidding  this  bailiff  came  to  us.  He  was  from  a  town  near  Flor-  ence,  Siena's  old  rival,  and  the  farmers  on  our  land-there  were  ten  farms  and  a  villa  to  the  estate-immediately  viewed  him  with  suspicion,  and  before  long  took  an  intense  dislike  to  him.  He  was  bossy,  this  man,  loudmouthed,  bad-  tempered,  stocky,  quite  the  opposite  of  my  father,  who  was  soft-spoken  and  polite  and  slender.  Perhaps  my  grand-  father  chose  him  thinking  that  my  fa-  ther  was  too  gentle.  With  my  father,  however,  he  was  very  obsequious,  ser-  vile  even,  agreeing  with  and  enthusias-  tic  about  everything  he  said  orpro-  posed.  That's  all  my  father  needed  to  be  won  over-someone  to  agree  with  him.  &quot;Pietro  has  a  philosophical  mind,&quot;  my  father  said  of  him.  My  father  had  the  idea  that  anyone,  even  a  child, could  comprehend  philosophical  con-  cepts.  Frequently  he  would  air  them  to  me  as  we  walked  across  the  fields.  I  nodded,  and  Pietro  must  have  done  the  same.  I  won't  exclude  the  possibility  that  once  in  a  while  Pietro  might  have  come  up  with  some  felicitous  expression  as  he  wondered  about  life  and  the  universe,  or  with  an  apt  comment  on  the  sad  state  the  world  was  in-it  was  during  the  Depression,  and  Musso-  lini  was  in  power-but  I  am  quite  sure  he  never  read  a  book.  To  this  my  fa-  ther  would  have  said  that  even  an  illit-  erate  person  could  be  philosophical,  and  if  one  thinks  of  the  utter  nonsense  that  one  heard  and  read  in  those  days,  and  inthese,  I  suppose  he  had  a  point.  But  really  Pietro  wasn't  very  bright.  He  had  a  terrific  penchant  for  lock-  ing  things  up-the  granary,  the  pantry,  the  wine  cellar,  the  gates-and  when  my  mother  told  him  not  to,  he  stared  at  her.  She  insisted,  and  still  he  couldn't  quite  make  himself  obey  her.  It  just  wasn't  in  his  nature  to  leave  things  un-  locked.  Again  and  again,  we  had  to  call  him  to  unlock  doors  and  cupboards.  Fi-  nally,  my  mother  got  him  to  hang  the  keys  on  a  board  in  a  room  next  to  my  father's  study.  They  were  large  keys,  some  almost  afoot  long,  and  each  key  had  a  wooden  tag  attached  to  it  by  a  string.  On  both  sides  of  the  tag  he  wrote  &quot;Key  to  the  Granary,&quot;  or  what-  ever,  the  word  &quot;key&quot;  so  large  it  took  up  almost  the  entire  tag.  My  mother  laughed  about  it  and  brought  this  up  as  an  example  of  his  stupidity,  but  my  fa-  ther  saw  very  little  wrong  with  it.  Stu-  pidity  to  himwas  something  else:  the  denial  of  certain  truths.  My  father  also  liked  Pietro  for  his  accent.  He  came  from  a  town  called  San  Giovanni  Valdarno,  and  the  up-  per  Arno  basin  was,  to  my  father,  the  cradle  of  the  Italian  language.  Pietro  wrote  slowly,  with  an  unsteady  hand,  and  could  do  simple  arithmetic,  having  goneup  to  the  fifth  grade  in  school  and  then  taken  a  little  tutoring  from  a  par-  ish  priest.  These  skills  he  used  on  his  ledgers,  which  dutifully  at  the  end  of  each  month  he  would  bring  to  my  mother  to  check.  She  found  errors,  but  they  were  as  often  in  our  favor  asin  his.  Though  about  forty  years  old,  he  was  unmarried.  His  only  relative  was  our  cook,  a  huge  woman  who  had  come  with  him  to  the  house.  He  would  have  fierce  arguments  with  her,  scold-  ing  her  for  such  trifies  as  neglecting  to  tell  him  to  buy  salt  when  she  knew  he  was  going  to  the  store,  They  would  both  flush,  she  with  pent-up  rage,  he  with  the  fire  of  his  damnations,.  Some-  " b"times  he  shouted  so  uncontrollably  I  won-  dered  why  the  blood  vesselsin  his  temples  didn't  burst.  He  didn't  drive  a  car-bailiffs  didn't  in  the  thirties-but  he  had  a  motorcycle,  which  seemed  much  more  in  keeping  with  his  blustery  ways.  My  father  had  acar,  a  blue  Chevrolet  convertible,  a  rarity  in  4974616c79,  and  we  had  two  horses  and  a  cal\xc3\xa9che.  This  cal\xc3\xa9che  the  bailiff  would  use  to  go  into  town  on  mar-  ket  day.  He  would  get  a  workman  to  polish  a  horse's  hoofs,  oil  the  harness,  wash  the  cal\xc3\xa9che,  and  off  he'd  go  for  the  day.  He  loved  going  into  town,  to  hang  around  the  post-office  piazza  dis-  cussing  prices  and  to  have  lunch  with  the  other  bailiffs  in  a  trat-  toria.  Little  by  little,  he  began  going  into  town  twice  a  week,  and  then  three  and  more  days  a  week.  &quot;He's  always  in  town,&quot;  my  mother  would  complain,  and  my  father  would  pa-  tiently  explain  that  it  took  a  long  time  to  transact  business,  that  in  government  offices  they  made  you  waita  good  long  time,  and  that  it  was  the  bureauc-  racy's  fault,  not  Piet-  ro's.  The  maids  whis-  pered  that  he  had  a  woman  in  town  and  that  he  called  at  houses  he  shouldn't  call  at.  When  he  returned,  he  would  go  and  knock  at  the  door  of  my  father's  study,  and  together  they  would  talk  about  the  estate,  Pietro  always  careful  not  to  contradict  him.  My  father  trusted  him,  Once,  he  gave  him  an  inscribed  copy  of  a  book  he  had  just  published,  and  I  think  Pietro  was  genuinely  grateful  and  probably  even  made  a  brave  attempt  to  read  it,  though  I  doubt  he  ever  got  past  the  first  page.  The  estate  was  decidedly  not  doing  well,  but  my  father  blamed  the  heavy  taxes  and  the  low  prices,  not  the  bailiff.  Did  we  think  he  was  no  judge  of  character?  He  knew  his  men.  Any     criticism  of  Pietro  hetook  almost  as  a  personal  insult,  and  we  kept  quiet.  A  young  woman  from  Sardinia  who  lived  in  town  was  expecting  a  child  by  a  son  of  one  of  the  farmers.  He  didn't  want  to  marry  her.  Once  in  a  while,  she  would  appear  at  their  house,  quite  helpless.  His  family  was  in  a  crisis,  fearing  her  brothers  in  Sardinia,  and  went  to  the  bailiff  for  advice.  He  per-  suaded  the  young  man  to  marry  her.  &quot;You  see,  Pietro  has  an  eloquence  about  him,&quot;  my  father  said.  &quot;He  is  a  very  forceful  speaker.  This  is  a  rare  quality  in  people.&quot;  My  father  never  fired  anybody  and  believed  that,  up  to  a  point,  the  more  people  he  had  working  for  him  the  better.  A  concerted  effort  couldn't  help  but  right  things,  he  asserted.  And  so  he  hired  new  workmen  for  the  estate  and  English  tutors  for  my  two  brothers  and  me  and  my  sister-also  sometimes  tutors  in  mathematics,  Latin,  and  Greek.  It  was  a  time  of  unprecedented  unemployment,  and,  though  building  a  deficit,  he  was  helping  people.  Nor  was  he  in  any  danger  of  bankruptcy.  My  grandfather  kept  him  solvent.  N  1938,  Hitler  visited  Mussolini,  and  the  anti-Semitic  campaign  be-  gan.  Because  my  father  was  Jewish,  his  books  could  no  longer  be  published.  All  sorts  of  restrictions  were  placed  upon  Jews.  Quickly  he  decided  we  must  " b"leave  for  [REDACTED].  One  shouldn't  live  in  a  country,  he  said,  where  one  didn't  have  equal  rights  My  grandfather,  who  was  very  old,  chose  not  toleave.  From  Rome  he  would  move  tothe  country  house,  and  with  Pietro's  help  look  after  the  estate.  I  remember  Pietro  on  the  day  we  left.  Harsh  though  he  could  bewith  the  cook  and  with  some  ofthe  work-  men,  he  could  also  be  quite  tender,  and  had  a  real  affection  for  us-especially  for  my  younger  brother,  who  was  twelve,  slight,  and  endearing,  with  curly  fair  hair  and  playful  ways.  He  lifted  him  and,  weeping,  hugged  and  kissed  him.  As  for  my  brother,  he  was  much  too  excited  about  the  trip  to  cry.  After  the  war,  when  we  returned  by  boat  from  [REDACTED],  Pietro  came  to  meet  us  in  Naples,  his  socks  stuffed  with  ten-thousand-lira  notes  for  us.  He  also  carried  two  fiascht  of  wine  and  a  suit-  case  full  of  salami,  bread,  nuts,  and  cheese.  He  was  married  now  ;  of  this  we  had  got  word.  The  cook  had  been  fired  abruptly  during  the  war  and  replaced  by  one  of  the  maids.  I  remember  my  mother  saying  she  felt  sorry-especially  about  the  way  it  was  done.  My  grand-  father  had  died,  peacefully,  in  the  house,  which  had  been  occupied  by  German  soldiers.  Jewish  though  my  grandfather  was,  a  German  Army  doctor  had  treat-  ed  him  in  his  last  days  and  had  gone  to  his  funeral.  What  money  he  had  left  us  was  reduced  by  inflation  almost  a  hundredfold.  The  bailiff's  wife  wasn't  from  the  countryside  but  from  a  little  townsome  forty  miles  away.  She  looked  like  a  town  woman,  too,  and  dressed  like  one, disdaining  shawls  and  aprons  and  any-  thing  old-fashioned.  She  was  buxom  and  liked  tight-fitting  skirts  and  blouses.  She  wore  lipstick  and  had  a  permanent  wave.  She  wasn't  really  pretty-her  jaw  was  too  heavy-but  she  was  a  good  deal  younger  than  Pietro,  and  at  first  sight  one  got  the  impression  he  had  done  rather  well  for  himself.  Yet  soon  one  saw  she  had  a  greedy  look,  and  her  smile  wasn't  open.  Until  we  arrived,  she  had  been  the  woman  in  charge.  Now  she  was  in  charge  only  of  thepoultry.  She  was  proud,  too,  and  probably  thought  she  deserved  better  things.  The  bailiff's  apartment  had  been  done  over,  to  her  taste.  I  remember  odd  little  triangles  painted  on  a  wall.  A  new  bathroom  had  been  put  in.  The  apartment  was  comfortable,  but  maybe  not  quite  com-  fortable  enough,  and  certainly  nothing  like  the  villa,  a  bedroom  of  which  she  and  Pietro  had  slept  in  during  our  ab-  sence.  Since  she  had  never  seen  us  be-  fore,  she  certainly  had  no  reason  to  look  at  us  with  any  affection,  the  way  " b"the  maids  did.  She  with-  drew  to  her  apartment,  took  care  of  the  poul-  try,  for  which  she  re-  ceived  a  salary,  and  we  didn't  see  very  much  of  her.  Once,  however,  I  overheard  her  say  something  about  Jews  which  surprised  me.  I  can't  remember  exactly  what  it  was.  Just  one  of  those  little  remarks  with  the  word  &quot;but&quot;  in  them-&quot;They  are  Jews  but  they  seem  all  right,&quot;  or  &quot;But  they  are  not  like  us;  they  are  Jewish.&quot;  Some-  thing  of  the  sort.  It  surprised  me,  because  such  distinctions  were  never  made  by  others  in  the  house.  The  bailiff,  perhaps  at  her  prodding,  soon  got  my  father  to  hire  an  extra  man,  a  soffo-  fattore,  or  sub-bailiff,  a  nephew  of  his  from  Florence,  a  young  man  with  rather  expensive  habits.  Before  long,  he  had  borrowed  and  smashed  the  car  of  a  family  friend  who  was  staying  with  us.  He  was  better  at  arithme-  tic  than  the  bailiff  and  helped  him  with  the  accounts.  With  this  little  entourage,  Pietro  now  seemed  very  firm-  ly  entrenched  indeed.  My  father  was  aging.  My  two  brothers  and  I  were  away  most  of  the  time  at  universities.  My  sister  was  at  school.  Then  she  fell  ill  with  t.b.  The  advent  of  streptomycin  saved  her,  but  it  wastwo  years,  during  which  my  mother  devoted  all  her  time  to  her,  before  she  was  well.  The  bailiff  had  more  and  more  of  a  free  hand  in  running  the  estate.  In  4974616c79,  there  was  great  economic  and  political  unrest.  The  farmers,  who  got  a  share  of  the  profits  from  the  land  but  didn't  own  it,  pressed  for  and  got  better  contracts  from  the  landowners.  Some  large  estates  were  expropriated  and  split  up.  Ours  wasn't  large  enough  for  that.  Still,  capital,  or  principal,  was  taxed,  and  we  began  running  heavily  into  debt.  To  pay  some  of  the  bills,  my  mother  translated  Wolfe,  Faulkner,  Steinbeck,  O'Hara,  and  Huxley  into  Italian.  We  sold  a  little  mill  on  a  stream  down  by  the  road,  then  a  farm,  then  another.  T  this  point,  a  man  by  the  name  of  Fernando,  a  Neapolitan  who  had  served  asa  soldier  in  my  father's  in-  fantry  company  in  the  First  World  War,  came  to  our  house.  He  was  very  devoted  to  my  father,  who,  he  said,  had  saved  his  life:  their  company  had  been  almost  surrounded  by  the  Austrians  and  my  father  had  found  a  way  out,  Over  the  years,  my  father  had  often  talked  of  Fernando's  courage  and  great  physical  strength,  and  of  his  temper.  Once,  dur-  ing  the  war,  he  had  threatened  my  fa-  " b"ther  at  gunpoint.  My  father  had  burst  out  laughing,  and  he  had  put  the  gun  away.  After  the  war,  Fernando  got  into  a  family  brawl  in  Naples,  in  which-accidentally,  according  to  him-his  mother  and  her  lover  had  been  killed.  The  judge  was  of  a  dif-  ferent  opinion  and  condemned  him  to  prison  for  life.  For  thirty  years  he  was  in  prison,  and  all  during  that  time  he  wrote  to  my  father.  The  letters,  on  strange  prison  stationery,  with  the  censor's  marks,  kept  arriving.  And  my  father  replied  each  time,  sending  himmoney,  and  once  two  canaries,  which,  like  the  Birdman  of  Alcatraz,  Fernando  bred,  till  in  a  few  years  the  prison  was  filled  with  the  singing  of  hundreds  of  canaries.  Finally,  in  1950,  he  was  released  for  good  conduct.  He  was  thin,  with  sparse  gray  hair,  few  teeth,  and  so  pale  he  looked  as  if  he  hadn't  been  in  the  sun  for  thirty  years.  But  it  wasn't  that,  for  though  my  father  welcomed  him  and  gave  him  work  out  in  the  fields,  his  color  didn't  improve.  The  long  con-  finement  had  affected  his  health  too  deeply  for  sun  and  fresh  air  to  restore  It.  We  saw  no  sign  of  the  great  physical  strength  my  father  had  spoken  of.  His  spirit,  though,  seemed  whole-anything  but  weak.  Soon  he  had  endeared  him-  self  to  everybody  but  the  bailiff  and  his  wife  and  nephew.  They  looked  on  Fernando  as  on  one  who  was  under-  mining  their  positions.  And  with  some  reason.  Fernando  was  very  suspicious  of  them,  and  in  his  Neapolitan  accent  he  began  to  whisper  to  us  that  we  were  being  cheated.  My  father  didn't  believe  him.  He  still  blamed  the  taxes  and  the  new  contracts,  which,  though  he  thought  they  were  justified,  were  all  to  the  owner's  disadvantage.  But  Fernan-  do  didn't  give  up.  The  farmers  liked  him.  They  were  more  than  tolerant.  He  was  popular  all  over  the  neighborhood.  No  one  treated  him  with  the  prejudice  or  reser-  vations  that  one  might  have  toward  an  ex-convict.  And  he  soon  persuaded  them  that  he  was  innocent  and  had  been  wrongly  accused.  &quot;And  anyway,  even  if  he  was  guilty  he  paid  for  what  he  did,&quot;  they  said,  and  invited  him  to  their  homes.  With  dramatic  gestures,  his  soft  low  voice,  and  his  accent  that  sounded  rather  comical  to  Tuscan  ears,  he  entertained  them  with  a  hundred  stories  of  fearful  crimes,  famous  ban-  dits,  and  cruel  guards,  all  probably  quite  true,  insider  that  he  was.  His  was  cer-  tainly  firsthand  material,  told  him  by  the  very  perpetrators  ofthe  foul  deeds  that  had  filled  the  newspapers  for  a  generation.  He  was  also  in  demand  for  reputedly  being  able  to  tell  expectant  mothers  if  their  babies  would  be  boys  or  girls.  He  gave  medical  advice,  and  advice  on  the  lotto,  the  state-owned  numbers  game,  as  well  as  on  the  soccer  lottery,  on  which  every  week  he  bet  his  savings.  But  his  mission,  it  seemed,  was  to  make  my  father  aware  that  he  was  being  cheated  by  the  bailiff.  The  estate,  he  was  sure,  was  heading  toward  ruin,  and  he  regarded  himself  as  the  man  who  could  save  it,  thus  repaying  my  father  for  all  he  had  done  for  him.  Perhaps  also,  though  he  had  no  experi-  ence  as  a  farmer,  he  saw  himself  as  the  next  bailiff.  My  father  continued  to  trust  and  admire  Pietro,  however,  and  if  any-  one  ventured  totalk  against  him  my  father  would  come  to  his  defense  and  ask,  as  he  had  before,  in  a  hurt  voice,  &quot;Do  you  think  I  can't  judge  a  man's  character?&quot;  &quot;But  let  me  tell  you,&quot;  Fernando  would  plead.  &quot;Besides,&quot;  my  father  would  add,  &quot;my  wife  goes  over  the  accounts  care-  fully  every  month.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  the  accounts!&quot;  Fernando  would  counter,  and  make  a  spiralling  gesture  with  his  hand.  My  father  would  get  angry.  Fernando  looked  thwarted,  but  he  persisted.  My  younger  brother  was  most  re-  ceptive  to  his  insinuations,  My  elder  brother  was  a  scholar  of  the  classics,  and  though  he  listened  patiently  to  Fer-  nando's  accusations  he  didn't  do  any-  thing  about  them.  At  most  he  referred  them  to  my  mother.  I  was  studying  medicine  at  the  time,  was  home  only  on  vacations,  and  I  tended  to  take  my  fa-  ther's  side,  believing  that  my  mother  would  have  been  able  to  spot  any  er-  rors,  deliberate  or  not.  Not  so  my  younger  brother.  He  had  studied  math-  ematics  at  [REDACTED],  and  he  had  a  sharp  mind  for  anything  that  had  to  do  with  figures,  He  took  Fernando's  alle-  gations  seriously.  Secretly  he  began  in-  vestigating,  checking  the  accounts  my  mother  saw  against  the  bills,  and,  when  they  weren't  detailed  enough,  checking  with  the  stores  and  offices  in  town  that  we  did  business  with.  He  checked  the  supplies  in  the  granary  and  the  cellar,  talked  with  the  farmers,  went  over  old  records,  and  weighed  and  sifted  the  new  information  that  Fernando  con-  stantly  brought  to  him.  The  more  my  brother  looked,  the  more  he  found,  and  each  new  find  seemed  to  give  him  an  enormous  pleasure,  as  if  he  were  dis-  covering  gold,  and  nota  loss.  He  was  at  aperiod  of  transition  in  his  life,  not  knowing  what  to  do  with  his  degree,  and  this  work  as  comptroller,  carried  on  in  secret,  helped  his  spirits,  roused  him  out  of  a  kind  of  lethargy  and  de-  pression.  The  fraudulent  losses  he  dis-  coveredclimbed  from  several  hundred  dollars  into  the  thousands,  growing  more  frequent  and  larger  as  the  trans-  actions  that  he  examined  became  more  recent.  The  bailiff,  prodded  by  wife  and  nephew,  had  evidently  got  bolder  and  bolder  as  time  went  on.  My  broth-  er  was  amazed.  &quot;Another  year  like  this  one  and  they'll  be  the  owners,&quot;  he  said.  At  a  certain  point,  they  sensed  that  something  was  up.  They  became  very  silent  and  reserved,  even  with  my  fa-  ther.  Now  my  brother  went  into  the  " b"bailiffs  office  while  he  was  there  and  came  out  with  stacks  of  papers  to  ex-  amine.  Again  and  again,  he  would  go  in  and  come  out  with  more.  Finally,  one  day  he  confronted  the  bailiff  with  all  the  evidence  of  fraud  he  had  uncovered.  It  was  overwhelming-  enough  to  send  him  to  jail.  Some  of  the  findings,  like  purchases  that  hadn't  been  made,  were  very  glaring,  impossible  to  attribute  to  careless  error.  He  took  it  upon  himself  to  fire  him  and  his  neph-  ew  there  and  then,  and  threatened  them  with  a  lawsuit.  I  remember  my  father  at  supper  that  day.  &quot;And  you  always  thought  you  could  judge  people's  characters  so  well,&quot;  I  said  to  him  reproachfully.  Coming  from  me,  who  until  then  had  always  supported  him  when  he  defend-  ed  the  bailiff,  the  words  stung.  Friends,  I'd  heard  imy  father  observe,  always  said  the  worst  things,  because  they  knew  what  hurt.  He  looked  at  me.  All  through  supper  he  had  appeared  re-  signed  to  the  bailiff's  dismissal  and  had  even  managed  to  counter  some  of  my  brother's  arguments  fairly  well,  but  now,  his  lips  twitching  and  his  eyes  shining,  he  rose  from  the  table  and  made  for  the  door.  The  three,  afraid  ofa  lawsuit,  which  wasn't  pressed,  left  quickly,  taking  their  modern  furniture  from  the  apart-ment  but  leaving  the  chest,  which  was  perhaps  too  old  for  the  wife's  liking.  They  never  asked  for  it  and  it  was  never  sent  to  them.  It  stayed-a  kind  of  forfeit  for  all  that  they  had  taken.  OR  a  while,  there  was  new  hope  in  the  house  as  my  brother  took  over  the  running  of  the  estate.  The  farmers  who  worked  our  land  came  to  him  with  words  of  encouragement,  but  he  didn't  really  want  to  be  a  bailiff,  not  even  on  his  own  land;  he  said  he  wasn't  in-  terested  in  agriculture.  Fernando  didn't  get  the  job  and  soon  left  for  Leghorn,  where  one  of  his  acquaintances  had  in-  vited  him  to  join  in  some  business  ven-  ture.  He  got  married,  we  heard,  and  for  a  while  he  seemed  to  be  well  off;  then  his  partner's  business  failed  and  he  resumed  writing  to  my  father.  My  brother  found  a  new  bailiff,  who  was  very  sure  of  himself  and  only  half  lis-  tened  to  my  father.  The  estate  didn't  prosper  under  him,  either.  If  we  were  able  to  hold  on  to  the  house,  it  was  because  my  mother  opened  it  to  paying  guests  from  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED].  Sometimes  in  the  summer  we  had  more  than  twenty  staying  there,  Then,  in  the  sixties,  my  mother  died,  and  some  years  later  my  father.  Four  years  ago,  my  brothers,  my  sister,  and  I  sold  the  house  and  what  was  left  of  the  estate.  The  furniture  we  divided  among  us.  The  chest  was  one  of  the  things  I  got,  and  it  came  across  the  ocean  to  my  home  on  Cape  Cod,  where  it  still  stands.  Sometimes  I  look  at  it  and  open  the  drawers,  and  see  not  the  linens  that  my  wife  has  put  there  but  Pietro  lifting  my  young  brother  in  his  arms,  my  father  leaving  the  table,  the  empty  house. "