 b"IF  I  were  to  die,  I'd  miss  most  the   mornings  and  the  evenings,  he  thought  as  he  walked  the  narrow  dirt  track  by  the  lake  in  the  late  eve-  ning,  and  then  wondered  if  his  mind  was  failing,  for  how  could  anybody  think  anything  so  stupid.  Being  a  man  he  had  no  choice,  he  was  doomed  to  die;  and  being  dead  he'd  miss  nothing,  being  nothing.  And  everything  he  saw  and  felt  seemed  to  go  against  his  life  as  a  priest.  The  solid  world,  though,  was  every-  where  around  him.  There  was  the  lake,  the  road,  and  he  was  going  to  call  on  [REDACTED].  [REDACTED]  was  sawing.  [REDACTED]  was  always  sawing.  The  roaring  rise  and  fall  of  the  two-stroke  stayed  like  a  rent  in  the  evening.  And  when  he  got  to  the  black  gate  there  was  [REDACTED],  his  over-  alled  bulk  framed  in  the  short  avenue  of  alders,  and  he  was  sawing  not  alders  but  beech,  four  or  five  tractor  loads  dumped  in  the  front  of  the  house.  The  priest  put  a  hand  to  the  black  gate  bolted  to  the  first  of  the  alders,  and  was  at  once  arrested  by  sudden  sun-  light  falling  down  the  avenue.  It  lit  up  the  one  boot  holding  the  length  of  beech  in  place;  it  lit  the  arms  moving  the  blade  slowly  up  and  down  as  the  teeth  tore  through  the  beech,  white  chips  milling  out  on  the  chain.  Suddenly,  as  he  was  about  to  rattle  the  gate  loudly  to  see  if  this  would  penetrate  the  sawing,  he  felt  himself  (bathed  as  in  a  dream)  in  an  incredi-  ble  sweetness  of  light.  It  was  the  eve-  ning  light  on  snow.  The  gate  on  which  he  had  his  hand  vanished,  the  alders,  [REDACTED]'s  formidable  bulk,  the  roaring  of  the  saw.  He  was  in  another  day,  the  day  of  Michael  Bruen's  funeral  nearly  thirty  years  before.  All  was  silent  and  still  there.  Slow  feet  crunched  on  the  snow.  Ahead,  at  the  foot  of  the  hill,  the  coffin  rode  slowly  forward  on  shoulders,  its  brown  varnish  and  metal  trappings  dull  in  the  glittering  snow,  riding  just  below  the  long  waste  of  snow  eight  or  ten  feet  deep  over  the  whole  countryside.  The  long  dark  line  of  mourners  following  the  coffin  stretched  away  toward  Oakport  Wood  in  the  pathway  cut  through  the  snow.  High  on  Killeelan  Hill  the  graveyard  evergreens  rose  out  of  the  snow.  The  graveyard  wall  was  covered,  the  nar-  row  path  cut  up  the  side  of  the  hill  stopping  at  the  little  gate  deep  in  the  snow.  The  coffin  climbed  with  painful  slowness,  as  if  it  might  never  reach  the  gate,  often  pausing  for  the  bearers  to  be  changed;  someone  started  to  pray,  the  prayer  travelling  down  the  whole  mile-  long  line  of  mourners  as  they  shuffled    behind  the  coffin  in  the  narrow  tunnel  cut  in  the  snow.  It  was  on  a  February  day  long  years  ago  that  they  buried  Michael  Bruen.  Never  before  or  since  had  he  experi-  enced  the  Mystery  in  such  awesome-  ness.  Now  as  he  stood  at  the  gate  there  was  no  awe  or  terror,  only  the  coffin  moving  slowly  toward  the  dark  trees  on  the  hill,  the  long  line  of  mourners,  and  everywhere  the  blinding  white  light,  among  the  half-buried  thornbushes,  and  beyond  Killeelan  on  the  covered  waste  of  Gloria  Bog,  on  the  sides  of  the  Iron  Mountains.  He  did  not  know  how  long  he  had  stood  in  that  lost  day,  in  that  white  light-probably  for  no  more  than  a  moment.  He  could  not  have  stood  the  intensity  for  any  longer.  When  he  woke  out  of  it  the  gray  light  of  the  alders  had  reasserted  itself.  His  hand  was  still  on  the  bar  ofthe  gate.  Gilles-  pie  was  still  sawing,  bent  over  the  sawhorse,  his  boot  on  the  length  of  beechwood,  completely  enclosed  in  the  roaring  rise  and  fall  ofthe  saw.  The  priest  felt  as  vulnerable  as  if  he  had  suddenly  wakened  out  of  sleep,  shaken  and  somewhat  ashamed  to  have  been  caught  asleep  out-of-doors,  without  any  protection  of  walls.  He  was  about  to  rattle  the  gate  again,  feeling  a  washed-out  parody  of  a  child  or  old  man  on  what  was  after  all  nothing  more  than  a  poor  errand-to  tell  the  Gilles-  pies  that  a  bed  had  at  long  last  been  made  available  in  the  Regional  Hospital  for  the  operation  on  Mrs.  Gil-  lespie's  piles-when  his  eye  was  caught  again  by  the  quality  of  the  light.  It  was  one  of  those  late  October  days,  small  white  clouds  drifting  about  the  sun,  and  the  watery  light  was  shin-  ing  down  the  alder  rows  to  fall  on  the  white  chips  of  the  beechwood  strewn  all  about  [REDACTED],  some  inches  deep.  It  was  the  same  white  light  as  the  light  on  snow.  As  he  watched,  the  light  went  out  on  the  beech  chips,  and  it  was  the  gray  day  again  around  [REDACTED]'s  sawing.  It  had  been  as  sim-  ple  as  that.  The  suggestion  of  snow  had  been  enough  to  plunge  him  into  the  lost  day  of  Michael  Bruen's  funeral.  Everything  in  that  remem-  bered  day  was  so  pure  and  perfect  that  he  felt  purged  of  all  tiredness  and  bitter-  " b"ness,  and  was,  for  a  moment,  eager  to  begin  life  again.  And  making  sure  that  [REDACTED]  badn't  noticed  him  at  the  gate,  he  turned  back  on  the  road.  The  bed  wouldn't  be  ready  for  another  week.  The  news  could  wait  a  day  or  more.  Before  leaving,  he  stole  a  last  look  at  the  dull  white  ground  about  the  sawhorse.  The  most  difficult  things  seem  al-  ways  to  lie  closest  to  us,  to  lie  always  around  our  feet.  Ever  since  his  moth-  \xc2\xa9  er's  death,  he'd  found  himself  stum-  bling  into  these  dead  days.  Once,  crushed  mint  in  the  garden  had  given  him  back  a  day  he'd  spent  with  her  at  the  sea  in  such  vividness  that  he  had  been  frightened,  as  if  he'd  suddenly  fallen  through  time;  it  was  as  if  the  world  of  the  dead  was  as  available  to  him  as  the  world  of  the  living.  It  was  also  humiliating  for  him  to  realize  that  she  must  have  been  the  mainspring  of  his  days.  And  now  thatthe  mainspring  was  broken  the  hands  wereweakly  fall-  ing  here  and  falling  there.  Today  there  had  been  the  sudden  light  on  the  bits  of  white  beech.  He  would  not  have  noticed  the  light  if  he  hadn't  been  alone,  if  [REDACTED]  had  not  been  so  ab-  sorbed  in  his  sawing.  Before,  there  must  have  been  many  such  simple  links  which  he'd  been  too  ashamed  or  be-  wildered  to  notice.  Stealthily  and  quickly  he  went  down  the  dirt  track  by  the  lake  till  he  got  to  the  main  road.  To  the  left  was  the  church  in  a  rookery  of  old  trees,  and,  behind  it,  the  house  where  he  lived.  Safe  on  the  wide  main  road,  he  let  his  mind  go  back  to  the  beech  chips.  They  rested  there  around  [REDACTED]'s  large  bulk,  and  paler  still  was  the  line  of  mourners  following  the  coffin  through  the  snow  --a  picture  you  could  believe  or  disbelieve  but  not  be  in.  In  idle  ex-  asperation  he  began  to  single  out  the  individual  trees  in  the  hedge  along  the  road  as  he  walked-ash,  green  oak,  whitethorn,  ash,  The  last  leaves  were  a  vivid  yellow  on  the  wild  cherry,  and  the  empty  October  fields  stood  in  dull  wet  light  between  their  hedges.  This,  then,  was  the  actualday,  the  only  day  that  mattered,  the  day  from  which  our  sal-  vation  had  to  be  won  or  lost:  it  stood  solidly  and  impenetrably  there,  denying  the  weak  life  of  the  person,  with  noth-  ing  ofthe  eternal  other  than  that  it     would  dully  endure,  while  the  day  he'd  stumbled  into  by  way  of  the  sudden  light  on  the  beech  chips,  though  it  had  been  nothing  more  than  a  funeral  he  had  attended  during  a  dramatic  snowfall  when  a  boy,  seemed  bathed  in  the  eter-  nal,  seemed  everything  we  had  been  taught  and  told  of  the  world  of  God.  Dissatisfied,  and  feeling  as  tired  again  as  he'd  been  on  his  way  to  Gil-  lespie's,  he  did  not  go  through  the  church  gate  with  its  circle  and  cross,  nor  did  he  call  to  the  sexton  locking  the  main  door  of  the  church,  the  wire  bell  rope  dangling  just  above  his  head.  To  be  certain  of  being  left  alone,  he  went  by  the  circular  path  at  the  side,  round  to  the  house,  for  a  high  laurel  hedge  hidthe  path  from  the  graveyard  and  church,  There  he  made  coffee  without  turning  on  the  light.  Michael  Bruen  had  been  a  big  kind-  ly,  agreeable  man,  what  was  called  a  lovely  man.  His  hair  was  a  coarse  gray.  He  wore  loose-fitting  tweeds  with  red  cattleman's  boots.  When  young  he  had  been  a  policeman  in  [REDACTED].  It  was  said  he  had  either  won  or  inherited  money,  and  had  come  home  to  where  he'd  come  from,  to  buy  the  big  Crossna  farm,  to  marry  and  grow  rich.  He  had  a  large  family,  and  men  were  employed  on  the  farm.  The  yard  and  its  big  outbuildings  with  the  red  roofs  rang  with  work-cans,  machin-  ery,  raillery,  the  sliding  of  hooves,  someone  whistling.  And  within  the  house,  away  from  the  yard,  was  the  enormous  cave  of  a  kitchen,  the  long  table  down  its  center,  the  fireplace  at  its  end,  the  plates  and  pots  and  presses  along  the  walls,  sides  of  bacon  wrapped  in  gauze  hanging  from  hooks  in  the  ceiling,  the  whole  room  full  of  the  excitement  and  bustle  of  women.  Often,  as  a  boy  the  priest  had  driven  cattle  over  to  Michael  Bruen's  for  his  father,  a  far  smaller  farmer  than  Mi-  chael.  Once  the  cattle  were  housed,  Michael  always  took  him  into  the  kitchen.  He  remembered  the  last  evening  he  was  to  spend  there  well.  As  usual,  he  had  driven  cattle  over.  It  was  Decem-  ber  and  had  started  to  freeze  early.  The  huge  fire  of  wood  blazed  all  the  brighter  because  of  the  frost.  &quot;Give  this  man  something,&quot;  Michael  had  said.  &quot;Something  solid  that'll  warm  the  life  back  into  him.&quot;  &quot;A  cup  of  tea  will  do  fine,&quot;  he  had  protested,  in  the  custom.  Nonsense.  Don't  pay  him  the  slight-  est  attention.  Empty  bags  can't  stand.&quot;  Eileen,  the  prettiest  of  Michael's  daughters,  laughed  as  she  took  down  the  pan.  Her  arms  were  white  to  the  elbows  with  a  fine  dusting  of  flour.  &quot;He'll  remember  this  was  a  good  place  to  come  to  when  he  has  to  start  thinking  about  a  wife.&quot;  Michael's  words  gave  license  to  general  hilarity.  Michael  began  to  question  him  about  his  father.  It  was  not  easy  to  concen-  trate  on  the  questions,  so  delicious  was  the  smell  of  frying.  The  mug  of  steam-  ing  tea  was  put  by  his  side.  The  butter  melted  on  the  fresh  bread  on  the  plate.  There  were  sausages,  liver,  bacon,  a  slice  of  black  pudding,  and  delicious  pieces  of  sweet  pork.  &quot;Now  set  to,&quot;  Michael  said.  &quot;We  don't  want  any  empty  bags  leaving  Bruen's.&quot;  And  he  began  to  laugh.  Michael  came  with  him  to  the  gate  when  he  left.  &quot;Tell  your  father  it's  ages  since  we  had  a  drink  in  the  Roval.  And  that  if  he  doesn't  search  me  out  in  the  Royal  the  next  Fair  Day  I'll  have  to  go  over  and  bate  the  lugs  off  him.&quot;  When  he  shook  Michael's  hand  in  the  half-light  of  the  yard  lamp,  it  was  the  last  time  he  was  to  see  Mi-  chael  alive.  Before  the  last  flakes  had " b"stopped  falling,  when  old  people  were  already  searching  back  as  far  as  &quot;the  great  snows  when  Count  Plunkett  was  elected&quot;  to  find  another  such  snow-  fall,  Michael  Bruen  had  died,  and  his  life  was  already  another  such  poor  watermark  of  memory.  k  I  HE  snow  lay  eight  feet  deep  on  the  roads,  and  dead  cattle  and  sheep  were  found  in  drifts  of  fifteen  feet  in  the  fields.  All  of  the  people  who  hadn't  lost  sheep  or  cattle  were  in  ex-  traordinary  good  humor,  their  own  ills  buried  for  a  time  as  deep  as  their  envy  of  another's  good  fortune,  in  the  gen-  eral  difficulty  of  the  snow.  It  took  days  to  cut  a  way  out  to  the  main  road,  the  snow  having  to  be  cut  in  blocks  breast-  high  out  of  a  face  of  frozen  snow,  A  wild  cheer  went  up  as  the  men  at  last  cut  through  to  the  gang  digging  in  from  the  main  road.  Another  cheer  greeted  the  first  van  to  come  in-  Doherty's  broad  van-and  it  had  hard-  ly  died  when  the  hearse  came  with  the  coffin  for  Michael  Bruen.  That  night,  they  cutthe  path  up  the  side  of  Killee-  lan  Hill  and  found  the  family  head-  stone  beside  thebig  yew  just  inside  the  gate.  They  hadn't  finished  digging  when  the  first  funeral  bell  came  clearly  over  the  snow  the  next  day,  to  tell  them  that  the  coffin  had  started  on  its  way.  The  priest  hadn't  thought  of  the  day  for  years,  or  of  Michael  Bruen,  till  he  had  stumbled  into  it  without  warning,  by  way  of  the  sudden  light  on  the  beech  chips.  It  did  not  augur  well.  There  were  days,  especially  of  late,  when  he  seemed  to  be  lost  in  dead  days,  to  see  time  present  as  a  flimsy  accumulating  tissue  over  all  the  time  that  was  lost.  Frequently,  he  saw  himself  as  an  old  man  that  boys  were  helping  down  to  the  shore,  restraining  their  need  to  laugh  as  they  pointed  out  a  rock  in  the  path  he  seemed  about  to  stumble  over,  and  then  having  to  lift  their  eyes  and  smile  apologetically  to  the  passersby,  while  he  stood  staring  out  to  sea,  having  forgotten  all  about  the  rock  in  his  path.  &quot;It's  this  way  we're  going.&quot;  He  felt  the  imaginary  tug  on  his  sleeve,  and  he  was  drawn  again  into  the  tortuous  existence  of  the  everyday,  away  from  the  eternal  of  the  sea  or  the  lost  light  on  frozen  snow  across  Killeelan  Hill.  Never  before,  though,  had  he  no-  ticed  anything  like  the  beech  chips.  For  him  there  was  the  joy  of  holding  what  had  eluded  him  for  so  long,  in  its  amaz-  ing  simplicity;  but  mastered  knowledge  was  soon  no  knowledge,  unless  it  opened,  became  part  of  a  greater  knowl-  edge,  and  what  didthe  beech  chips  do  but  turn  back  to  his  own  death.  Like  the  sudden  snowfall  and  Mi-  chael  Bruen's  burial,  his  life  had  been  the  same  as  any  other,  except  to  him-  self,  and  then  only  in  odd  visions  of  it,  as  a  lost  life,  without  confidence  and  full  of  unbelief.  When  it  had  been  agreeable  and  equitable,  he  had  no  vi-  sion  of  it  at  all.  The  country  childhood.  His  mother  and  father.  The  arrival  at  the  shocking  knowledge  of  birth  and  death.  His  at-  traction  to  the  priesthood  as  a  way  of  vanquishing  death  and  avoiding  birth.  O  hurry  it,  he  thought:  there  is  not  much  to  a  life.  Many  have  it.  There  is  not  enough  room.  His  father  and  mother  were  old  when  they  married,  and  he  was  &quot;the  fruit  of  old  things,&quot;  he  heard  voices  say  derisively.  His  mother  had  been  a  seamstress.  He  could  still  see  the  needle  flashing  in  her  strong  hands,  that  single  needle  flash  com-  posed  of  thousands  of  hours.  &quot;His  mother  had  the  vocation  for  him,&quot;  it  was  said.  Perhaps  she  had;  per-  haps  all  the  mothers  of  this  country  had.  It  had  so  passed  into  the  speech  of  the  country,  in  all  the  forms  of  both  beati-  fication  and  derision.  And  it  was  out  of  fear  of  death  he  became  a  priest,  which  becomes  in  its  turn  the  fear  of  life,  so  wasn't  it  natural  to  turn  back  to  the  mother  in  this  fear:  she  was  older  than  fear,  having  given  him  his  life,  and  who  would  give  a  life  if  they  knew  its   end.  There  was  then  his  father's  death,  the  father  accepting  it  as  he  had  ac-  cepted  all  poor  fortune  all  his  life  long,  as  his  due,  refusing  to  credit  the  good.  And  afterward  his  mother  sold  the  land  to  &quot;Horse&quot;  McLaughlin  and  came  to  live  with  him,  and  was  happy.  She  attended  all  the  Masses  and  devo-  tions,  took  messages,  and  continued  to  sew  linen  for  the  altar,  soutanes  and  surplices,  his  shirts  and  all  her  own  clothes.  Sometimes  her  concern  for  him  irritated  him  to  exasperation,  but  he  hardly  ever  let  it  show.  He  was  busy  with  the  many  duties  of  a  priest.  The  fences  on  thepast  and  future  were  secure.  He  must  havebeen  what  is  called  happy,  and  there  was  a  whole  part  of  his  life  that  without  his  know-  ing  had  come  to  turn  to  her  for  its  expression.  He  discovered  this  when  she  began  her  death.  He  came  home  one  summer  evening  to  find  all  the  lights  in  the  house  on.  She  was  in  the  living  room,  in  the  usual  chair.  The  table  was  piled  high  with  dresses.  Round:  the  chair  was  a  pile  of  rags.  She  did  not  look  up  when  he  entered,  her  strong  hands  tearing  apart  a  herringbone  skirt  she  had  made  only  the  year  before.  &quot;What  on  earth  are  you  doing,  Mother?&quot;  He  caught  herby  the  hands  when  she  didn't  answer.  &quot;It's  time  you  were  up  for  Mass,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;What  are  you  doing  with  all  your  dresses?&quot;  &quot;What  dresses?&quot;  &quot;All  the  dresses  you've  just  been  tearing  up.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know  anything  about dresses.&quot;  And  then  he  saw  there  was  some-  " b"thing  wrong.  She  made  no  resistance  when  he  led  her  up  the  stairs.  For  some  days,  she  seemed  absent  and  confused  but,  though  he  watched  her  carefully,  she  was  otherwise  little  different  from  her  old  self,  and  she  did  not  appear  ill.  Then  he  came  home  one  evening  to  find  her  standing  like  a  child  in  the  middle  of  the  room,  surrounded  by  an  enormous  pile  of  rags.  She  had  taken  up  from  where  she'd  been  inter-  rupted  at  the  herringbone  skirt,  and  had  torn  every  article  of  clothing  she  had  ever  made.  After  his  initial  shock  he  did  the  usual  and  sent  for  the  doctor,  &quot;I'm  afraid  it's  just  the  onset  of  senility,&quot;  the  doctor  said.  &quot;It's  irreversible?&quot;  The  doctor  nodded.  &quot;It  very  seldom  takes  such  a  violent  form,  but  that's  what  it  is.  She'll  have  to  be  looked  after.&quot;  And  with  a  sadness  that  part  of  his  life  was  over,  he  took  her  to  the  Home  and  saw  her  settled  there.  She  recognized  him  when  he  visited  her  there  the  first  year,  but  without  excitement,  as  if  he  was  already  far  away;  and  then  the  day  came  when  he  had  to  admit  that  she  no  longer  knew  who  he  was,  had  become  like  a  dog  kennelled  out  too  long,  He  was  withher  when  she  died.  She'd  turned  her  face  toward  him.  There  came  what  seemed  a  light  of  recognition  in  the  eyes,  like  a  last  glow  of  a  match  before  it  goes  out,  and  then  she  died.  HERE  was  nothing  left  now  but  his  own  life.  There  had  been  nothing  but  that  all  along,  but  it  had  been  obscured,  comfortably  obscured.  He  turned  on  the  radio.  A  man  had  lost  both  legs  in  an  explosion.  There  was  violence  on  the  night  shift  at  the  Ford  factory  in  Dagenham.  The  pound  had  steadied  toward  the  close  but  was  still  down  on  the  day.  Letting  his  fingers  linger  on  the  knob,  he  turned  the  radio  off.  The  dis-  embodied  voice  on  the  air  was  not  un-  like  the  lost  day  he'd  stumbled  into  through  the  light  on  the  beech  chips,  except  that  it  had  nothing  of  its  radi-  ance.  The  funeral,  during  the  years  he  must  have  carried  it  around  withhim,  had  lost  thesheltered  burden  of  the  everyday,  had  become  timeless,  and  seemed  at  the  very  least  a  promise  of  the  eternal.  He  went  to  draw  the  curtain.  She  had  made  the  curtain,  too,  with  its  pale  lining,  but  hadn't  torn  it.  How  often  must  she  have  watched  the  moonlight  on  the  still  headstones  beyond  the  lau-  rel,  as  it  lay  evenly  on  them  at  night.  She  had  been  afraid  of  ghosts:  old  priests  who  had  lived  in  this  house,  who  throughwhiskey  or  some  other  ill  had  neglected  to  say  Mass  for  the  dead.  Because  of  this  neglect,  the  soul  for  whom  the  Mass  should  have  been  of-  fered  was  forced  to  linger  beyond  its  time  in  Purgatory;  and  the  priest  guilty  of  the  omission  could  himself  not  be  released  until  the  living  priest  had  said  the  Mass,  and  was  forced  to  come  at  midnight  to  the  house  in  all  his  bondage  until  that  Mass  was  said.  &quot;They  must  have  been  all  good  priests,  Mother.  Good  steady  old  fel-  lows  like  myself.  They  never  come  back,&quot;  he  used  to  assure  her.  He  remem-  bered  his  own  idle  words  as  he  drew  the  curtain,  lingering  as  much  over  it  as  he  had  lingered  over  the  turning  " b"offofthe  radio.  He  would  be  glad  of  a  ghost  tonight,  be  glad  of  any  visitation  from  beyond  the  walls  of  sense.  He  took  up  the  battered  and  friendly  missal,  which  had  been  with  him  all  his  adult  life,  to  read  the  office  of  the  day.  On  bad  days  he  kept  ittill  late,  the  fa-  miliar  words  that  changed  with  the  changing  year,  that  he  had  grown  to  love,  and  were  as  well  his  duty.  It  must  surely  be  the  greatest  grace  of  life,  the  greatest  freedom,  to  have  to  do  what  we  love  because  it  is  also  our  duty.  But  he  wasn't  able  to  read  on  this  evening  among  the  old  familiar  words  for  long.  An  annoyance  came  between  him  and  the  page,  the  Mass  he  had  to  repeat  every  day,  the  Mass  in  English.  He  wasn't  sure  whether  he  hated  it  or  the  guitar-playing  priests  more.  It  was  hu-  miliating  to  think  that  these  had  never  been  such  a  scourge  when  his  mother  had  been  alive.  Was  his  life  the  calm  vessel  it  had  seemed,  dully  setting  out  and  returning  from  the  fishing  grounds?  Or  had  he  been  always  what  he  seemed  now?  &quot;Oh,  yes.  There  you  go  again,&quot;  he  heard  the  familiar  voice  in  the  empty  room.  &quot;Complaining  about  the  Mass  in  the  vernacular.  When  you  prefer  the  common  names  of  flowers  to  their  proper  names.&quot;  And  u     the  sharp,  energetic,  almost  brutal  laugh.  It  was  Peter  Joyce;  he  was  not  dead.  Peter  Joyce  had  risen  to  become  a  bishop  at  the  other  end  of  the  coun-  try,  to  become  an  old  friend  that  he  no  longer  saw.  &quot;But  they  are  more  beautiful.  Dog  rose,  wild  woodbine,  buttercup,  daisy  ...&quot;  He  heard  his  own  protest.  They  were  in  a  hotel  that  they  used  to  go  to  every  summer  on  the  Atlantic,  a  small  hotel  where  you  could  read  after  din-  ner  without  fear  of  a  rising  roar  from  the  bar  beginning  to  outrival  the  At-  lantic  by  ten  o'clock.  &quot;And,  no  doubt,  the  little  rose  of  [REDACTED],  sharp  and  sweet  and  breaks  the  heart,&quot;  he  heard  his  friend  quote  maliciously.  &quot;And  it's  not  the  point.  The  reason  that  names  of  flowers  must  be  in  Latin  is  that  when  flower  lovers  meet  they  know  what  they  are  talking  about,  no  matter  whether  they're  French  or  Greeks  or  Arabs.  They  have  a  universal  language.&quot;  &quot;I  prefer  the  humble  names,  no  matter  what  you  say.&quot;  &quot;Of  course  you  do.  And  it's  pa-  rochial  sentimentalists  like  yourself  who  prefer  the  smooth  sow  thistle  to  Son-  chus  oleraceus  that's  the  whole  cause  of  your  late-lamented  Mass  in  Latin  dis-  appearing.  I  have  no  sympathy  with  you.  You  people  tire  me.&quot;  The  memory  of  that  truculent  argu-  ment  dispelled  completely  his  annoy-  ance,  as  its  simple  logic  had  once  taken  his  breath  away,  but  he  was  curiously  tired  after  the  recollection.  It  was  only  bya  sheer  actof  will,  sometimes  hav-  ing  to  count  the  words,  that  he  was  able  to  finish  his  office.  &quot;I  know  one  thing,  Peter  Joyce.  I  know  that  I  know  nothing,&quot;  he  murmured  when  he  fin-  ished.  But  when  he  looked  at  the  room  about  him  he  could  hardly  believe  it  was  so  empty  and  dead  and  dry,  the  empty  chair  where  she  should  be  sew-  ing,  the  oak  table  with  the  scattered  books,  the  clock  on  the  mantel.  And  wildly  and  aridly  he  wanted  to  curse.  But  his  desire  to  curse  was  as  unfair  as  life.  He  had  not  wanted  any  of  this.  It  had  been  given,  and  he  had  fallen  into  It.  Then,  quietly,  he  saw  that  he  had  a  ghost,  all  right,  one  that  he  had  been  walking  around  with  for  a  long  time,  a  ghost  he  had  not  wanted  to  recog-  nize,  his  own  death.  He  might  as  well  get  to  know  him  well;  he  would  never  leave  now.  He  was  in  the  room,  and  had  no  mortal  shape:  absence  does  not  cast  a  shadow.  All  there  waswas  the  white  light  of  the  lamp  on  the  open  book,  on  the  white  marble;  the  brief  sun  on  beech-  wood,  the  sudden  light  of  glistening  snow,  and  the  timeless  mourners  mov-  ing  toward  the  yews  on  Killeelan  Hill  almost  thirty  years  before.  It  was  as  good  a  day  as  any,  if  there  ever  could  bea  good  day  to  go.  And  somewhere,  outside  this  room  that  was  an  end,  he  knew  that  a  young  man,  not  unlike  the  young  man  he  had  been  once,  stood  on  a  granite  step  and  listened  to  the  door-  bell  ring,  smiled  as  he  heard  a  woman's  footsteps  come  down  the  hallway,  ran  his  fingers  through  his  hair,  and  turned  the  bottle  of  white  wine  he  held  in  his  hands  completely  around  as  he  pre-  pared  to  enter  a  pleasant  and  uncom-  plicated  evening,  feeling  himself  im-  mersed  in  time  without  end. "