 b"ROYAL  beating.  That  was  Flo's  promise.  &quot;Nadine,  you  are  go-  ing  to  get  one  royal  beating.&quot;  The  words  lolled  on  Flo's  tongue,  took  on  trappings.  Nadine  was  a  child  with  a  need  to  picture  things,  to  pursue  absurdities,  and  the  first  time  she  heard  this  threat,  instead  of  taking  it  to  heart  she  pondered:  How  is  a  beating  royal?  She  came  up  with  a  tree-lined  ave-  nue,  a  crowd  of  formal  spectators,  some  white  horses  and  black  slaves.  The  blood  leapedout  like  banners-an  occa-  sion  both  savage  and  splendid.  In  real  life  it  was  Nadine's  father  who  was  the  king  of  the  royal  beat-  ings.  Flo  was  her  stepmother,  and  the  beatings  she  gavenever  amounted  to  much-they  were  quick  cuffs  and  slaps  dashed  off  while  her  attention  remained  elsewhere.  &quot;You  get  out  of  my  road,&quot;  she  would  say.  &quot;You  mind  your  own  business.  You  take  that  look  off  your  face.&quot;  But  it  was  up  to  Flo  to  supply  the  royal  beatings  with  dig-  nity,to  surround  them  with  some  high  air  of  necessity  and  regret.  Nadine  and  her  father  soon  got  beyond  anything  presentable.  Nadine  and  her  father  and  Flo  and  Brian,  who  was  Nadine's  young  half  brother,  lived  behind  a  grocery  store  in  Hanratty,  Ontario.  The  store  had  at  one  time  belonged  to  Nadine's  father  and  mother,  but  Nadine's  mother  said  one  day,  &quot;I  feel  something  in  my  chest,  like  I  swallowed  an  egg  in  the  shell,&quot;  and  in  a  few  hours  she  was  dead;  she  had  a  blood  clot  in  her  lung.  Na-  dine  didn't  remember  this;  she   I  war,  when  he  died.  He  did  not  discuss  with  Flo  what  he  charged  or  what  was  owing.  After  he  died,  she  had  to  go  out  and  unlock  the  shed  and  take  all  sorts  of  scraps  of  paper  and  torn  envelopes  from  the  big,  wicked-look-  ing  hooks  that  were  his  files,  and  many  of  these  she  found  were  not  accounts  or  receipts  at  all  but  bits  of  informa-  tion  about  the  garden,  or  notes  on  the  weather:  Ate  new  potatoes  25th  June.  Record.  Dark  day,  1880s,  nothing  unnatural.  Clouds  of  ash  from  forest  fires.  Aug.  16,  1938.  Thunderstorm  in  evng.  Scald  strawberries  to  remove  acid.  All  things  are  alive.  Spinoza.  Flo  thought  Spinoza  must  be  some  vegetable  he  was  trying  to  grow,  like  broccoli  or  eggplant.  He  would  often  try  some  new  thing.  She  showed  the  scraps  to  Nadine  and  asked  her  if  she  knew  what  Spinoza  was,  and  Nadine,  who  did  know,  or  at  least  had  an  idea,  replied  that  she  did  not.  She  was  in  her  teens  by  that  time,  and  she  could  not  stand  to  know  any  more  about  Flo  and  her  father;  she  pushed  any  dis-  covery  aside,  with  embarrassment  and  dread.  There  was  a  stove  in  the  shed,  and  many  rough  shelves  covered  with  cans  of  paint  and  varnish,  shellac  and  turpen-  tine,  jars  of  soaking  brushes,  and  also  some  dark,  sticky  bottles  of  cough  med-  icine.  Why  should  a  man  who  coughed  constantly,  whose  lungs  got  a  whiff  of  gas  in  the  war  (called,  in  Nadine's  early  childhood,  not  the  First  but  the  Last  War),  spend  all  his  days  was  a  baby  in  a  basket  at  the  pR  breathing  fumes  of  paint  and  time.  She  heard  it  from  Flo,  turpentine?  At  that  time  such  whose  information  she  didn't question,  though  Flo  hadn't  been  there,  either.  Flo  came  along  soon  afterward,  to  take  over  Nadine  in  her  basket,  marry  her  father,  and  take  over  the  store.  She  was  the  one  in  the  family  who  could  handle  the  public.  Nadine's  father  had  a  shed  out  be-  hind  the  store,  where  he  worked  at  repairing  and  restoring  furniture.  He  caned  chair  seats  and  backs,  mended  wickerwork,  reupholstered,  fixed  legs,  and  filled  cracks-all  most  skillfully  and  delicately.  No  one  else  could  do  work  like  his.  He  did  not  charge  much.  It  was  his  pride  to  startle  peo-  ple  withsuch  fine  work,  such  mod-  erate,  even  ridiculous  charges.  During  the  Depression  people  couldnot  afford  to  pay  more,  perhaps,  but  he  continued  the  practice  up  until  the  year  after  the  questions  did  not  seem  to  be  asked.  On  the  bench  outside  Flo's  store,  several  old  men  sat  gossiping,  drowsing,  in  the  warm  weather,  and  some  of  these  old  men  coughed  all  the  time,  too.  They  were  yellow  and  wasted  in  the  face-dying,  slowly  and  discreetly,  of  what  was  given  no  more  name  than  &quot;the  foundry  disease.&quot;  (They  had  worked  all  their  lives  at  the  foundry  in  town.)  They  did  not  com-  plain-just  sat  coughing  and  chuckling,  drifting  into  vague  obscenities  on  the  subject  of  women  walking  by,  or  young  girls  on  bicycles.  From  the  shed,  when  Nadine's  fa-  ther  was  working  there,  came  not  only  coughing  but  speech-a  continual  mut-  tering,  reproachful  or  encouraging,  usually  just  below  the  level  at  which  separate  words  could  be  made  out.  It   slowed  down  when  he  was  at  a  tricky  piece  of  work,  took  on  a  cheerful  speed  when  things  were  going  smoothly.  But  now  and  then  some  words  would  break  through  and  hang  clear  and  nonsensical  in  the  air.  When  he  realized  they  were  out,  there  would  be  a  swallowing,  a  coverup  coughing,  an  alert,  unusual  silence.  &quot;Macaroni,  beans  .  ..&quot;  What  could  that  mean?  Nadine  re-  peated  the  words  to  herself.  She  could  never  ask.  The  person  who  spoke  those  words  and  the  person  who  spoke  to  her  as  her  father  were  not  the  same,  although  they  appeared  to  be  in  the  same  place.  It  would  be  the  worst  sort  of  taste  to  acknowledge  the  person  who  was  not  supposed  to  be  there;  it  would  not  be  forgiven.  Just  the  same,  Nadine  loitered  and  listened,  and  she  said  the  words  over  and  over  to  herself,  almost  out  loud.  &quot;The  cloud-capped  towers,&quot;  she  heard  him  say  once,  in  a  sonorous,  finely  pleading  voice.  &quot;The  cloud-capped  towers,  the  gorgeous  palaces  .  ..&quot;  She  felt  as  if  a  hand  were  clapped  against  her  chest,  not  to  hurt  but  to  astonish  her,to  take  her  breath  away.  She  wanted  so  much  to  know  what  he  was  saying,  to  say  it  out  loud  in  the  same  way.  Then  she  ran,  for  she  was  afraid  that  he  would  catch  her,  and  if  he  did  it  would  be  terrible.  They  lived  across  the  bridge  from  the  main  partof  town.  This  was  a  town  much  like  any  other  in  south-  western  Ontario,  though  for  Nadine  it  was  more  amazing,  more  perplexing  than  any  place  she  found  to  live  in  afterward.  Flo's  store  and  the  harness-  and-blacksmith  shop  across  the  road-  it  was  closed  down  about  the  time  the  war  ended-were  at  the  straggling  tail  end  of  the  main  street.  The  house  be-  yond  the  blacksmith  shop  had  been  another  grocery  store  at  one  time.  The  Salada  Tea  sign  was  never  taken  out  of  the  front-room  window;  it  remained  as  a  sort  of  decoration.  There  was  just  a  bit  ofa  sidewalk,  too  cracked  and  tilted  for  roller-skating,  though  Nadine  often  dreamed  of  roller-skating  and  of  herself  whizzing  politely  along  in  a  plaid  skirt,  agile  and  fashionable.  There  was  one  street  light-a  tin  flower-  then  the  amenities  gave  up  and  there  were  dirt  roads,  boggy  places,  front-  yard  dumps,  and  eccentric  houses.  What  made  the  houses  eccentric  were  the  attempts  to  keep  them  from  going  completely  to  ruin.  With  some  the  attempt  had  never  been  made.  These  were  gray  and  rotted  and  leaning  over,  falling  into  a  landscape  of  scrub  pepperoni,  Botticelli,  " b"hollows,  frog  ponds,  cattails,  and  nettles.  Most  houses,  however,  had  been  patched  with  tarpaper,a  few  fresh  shingles,  sheets  of  tin,  hammered-out  stove-  pipes,  cardboard.  This  was,  of  course,  in  the  days  before  the  war,  days  of  what  would  later  be  legendary  pov-  erty,  from  which  Na-  dine  would  remember  low-down  things-seri-  ous-looking  anthills  and  wooden  steps-and  the  light  of  cloudy  summer  afternoons.  HERE  was  a  long  truce  be-  tween  Flo  and  Nadine  in  the  beginning.  Na-  dine's  prickly  nature-  her  skepticism  and  pride-was  slow-grow-  ing,  unaired,  unsus-  pected  even  by  herself.  Before  she  was  old  enough  to  go  to  school,  Nadine  stayed  in  the  store  with  Flo,  who  would  sit  up  on  the  high  stool  behind  the  counter.  Nadine  would  kneel  on  the  wide,  creaky  floorboards,  work  with  crayons  and  pieces  of  brown  wrapping  paper-paper  too  torn  to  be  used  again-and  listen  to  what  Flo  told  her.  People  who  came  to  the  store  were  mostly  from  the  houses  around.  Some  country  people  came,  too,  on  their  way  home  from  town,  and  a  few  towns-  people,  who  walked  across  the  bridge.  Some  people  were  always  on  the  main  street,  in  and  out  of  stores,  as  if  it  was  their  duty  to  be  on  display  and  their  right  to  be  welcomed.  For  instance,  Becky  Tyde.  She  was  a  big-headed  loud-voiced  dwarf,  with  a  mascot's  sexless  swagger,  a  red  velvet  tam,  a  twisted  neck  that  forced  her  to  hold  her  head  tilted  to  one  side,  always  look-  ing  up  and  sideways.  She  wore  lit-  tle,  polished  high-heeled  shoes-lady's  shoes.  Nadine  always  watched  her  shoes,  not  caring  to  look  at  the  rest  of  her.  Flo  said  that  Becky  Tyde  had  had  polio  as  a  child-that  was  why  her  neck  was  twisted-and  had  not  grown  since.  Flo  also  said  she  was  not  cracked;  she  just  knew  she  could  get  away  with  anything.  One  day  when  Nadine  was  eight  or  nine-and  not  crayoning  anymore  but marching  around  the  store-Becky  Tyde  climbed  up  on  Flo's  counter  and  made  room  for  herself  beside  an  open  box  of  crumbly  jam-filled  cookies.  &quot;Are  these  any  good?&quot;  she  said  to  Flo,  and  boldly  began  to  eat  one.  &quot;When  are  you  going  to  give  me  a  job,  Flo?&quot;  &quot;Why  don't  you  go  and  work  in  the  butcher  shop?&quot;  said  Flo.  &quot;Why  don't  you  go  and  work  with  your  brother?  He  gets  more  business  than  I  do.&quot;  &quot;You  think  I'd  go  and  work  with  [REDACTED]?&quot;  said  Becky,  swinging  her  legs.  Her  brother,  who  ran  the  butcher  shop,  was  an  extremely  meek  and  polite  and  nervous  man,  named  Rob-  ert  but  always  called  [REDACTED].  Becky  laughed.  She  laughed  at  the  end  of  everything  she  said.  &quot;You  know,  I  used  to  live  out  here,&quot;  Becky  went  on.  &quot;Hey,  What's  Your-  Name!&quot;  She  was  talking  to  Nadine.  &quot;Didn't  I  use  to  live  out  here,  Flo?&quot;  &quot;If  you  did,  it  was  before  my  time,&quot;  Flo  said.  &quot;It  was  before  the  neighborhood  got  so  downhill.  If  you  don't  mind  me  saying  so.  My  father  built  his  house  here  and  he  built  his  slaughterhouse,  and  we  had  a  half  acre  of  orchard.&quot;  &quot;Is  that  so?&quot;  said  Flo,  using  her  hu-  moring  voice,  full  of  false  geniality,  humility  even.  &quot;Then  why  would  you  move  away?&quot;  &quot;I  told  you,  we  didn't  like  the  neigh-  borhood,&quot;  Becky  said,  and  snapped  her  mouth  shut  on  a  whole  cookie.  Her  cheeks  filled  out  like  a  frog's.  She  wouldn't  say  any  more.  Flo  knew  anyway,  as  who  didn't.  Everyone  knew  the  house-red  brick,  with  the  veranda  pulled  off-and  the  orchard,  what  was  left  of  it,  full  ofthe  usual  outflow:  car  seats  and  washing  machines  and  bedsprings  and  unidentifiable  junk.  The  house  could  never  look  sinister,  in  spite  of  what  had  happened  in  it,  because  there  was  so  much  wreckage  and  confusion  all  around.  Nadine  liked  to  get  Flo  to  talk  about  Becky  Tyde's  father.  She  told  this  story-she  told  everything-as  if  she  had  been  there.  Becky's  father  was  a  different  kind  of  butcher  from  Robert,  Flo  said.  A  bad-tempered  Englishman.  And  different  from  Becky  in  the  mat-  ter  of  mouthiness,  His  was  never  open.  A  skinflint  and  tyrant,  who  wouldn't  have  wanted  to  build  out  here  if  he  had  been  a  decent  man.  Nobody  would  who  could  afford  better.  After  Becky  " b"had  polio  she  never  went  back  to  school,  and  for  a  while  was  seldom  seen  outside  the  house-never  outside  the  yard.  He  didn't  want  people  gloat-  ing.  So  people  said.  Becky's  mother  was  dead  by  that  time,  and  her  older  sisters  married.  Just  Becky  and  Rob-  ert  at  home.  People  would  stop  Robert  on  the  road  and  ask  him,  &quot;How  about  your  sister,  Robert?  Is  she  altogether  better  now?&quot;  (\xe2\x80\x98Yes.\xe2\x80\x997  &quot;Does  she  do  the  housework?  Does  she  get  your  supper?&quot;  \xe2\x80\x98(Yes.)\xe2\x80\x99  &quot;And  is  your  father  good  to  her,  Robert?&quot;  The  story  was  that  the  father  beat  them,  had  beaten  all  his  children-his  wife  as  well-and  that  he  beat  Becky  most  of  all,  because  of  her  deformity  (which  some  believed  he  had  caused;  they  did  not  understand  about  polio).  After  a  few  years,  Flo  said,  the  story  was  added  to.  Now  people  said  the  reason  Becky  was  kept  out  of  sight  was  that  she  was  pregnant,  and  the  father  of  the  child  was  none  other  than  her  own  father.  Then  the  child  was  sup-  posed  to  have  been  born,  and  disposed  of.  &quot;What?&quot;  Nadine  said  once,  after  she  had  heard  the  story  many  times.  Flo  said,  &quot;Disposed  of.&quot;  She  waited,  and  when  Nadine  did  not  ask  again,  she  said,  &quot;'Go  and  get  your  lamb  chops  at  Tyde's,'  they  used  to  say.  Oh,  they  said  that  for  years.  'You'll  get  them  nice  and  tender!'  It  was  all  lies,  in  all  probability,&quot;  she  added,  regret-  fully.  Nadine  was  drawn  back-she  had  been  watching  the  striped  awning  in  front  of  the  store  shiver  in  the  wind-by  the  tone  of  regret,  caution,  in  Flo's  voice.  There  was  more.  Eventually,  Flo  said,  three  useless  young  men  who  hung    around  the  livery  stable  got  together-  or  were  got  together,  by  more  influen-  tial  and  decent  men  in  town-and  prepared  to  give  Tyde  a  horsewhip-  ping,  in  the  interest  of  public  mor-  ality.  They  blacked  their  faces.  They  were  provided  with  whips,  and  a  quart  of  whiskey  apiece,  for  courage.  They  were  Jelly  Smith,  a  horse  racer  and  drunkard;  Bob  Temple,  a  ballplayer  and  strongman;  and  Hat  Nettleton,  who  worked  on  the  town  dray,  and  had  his  nickname  from  a  bowler  hat  he  al-  ways  wore,  out  of  vanity  as  much  as  for  comic  effect.  He  still  worked  on  the  dray,  in  fact;  he  had  kept  the  name,  though  not  the  hat,  and  could  often  be  seen  in  public-almost  as  often  as  Becky  Tyde-black  in  the  face  and  armsfrom  heaving  sacks  of  coal.  One  night  the  young  men,  primed  to  do  the  horsewhipping,  showed  up  late,  around  midnight,  outside  Tyde's  house.  They  had  a  gun,  but  they  used  up  their  ammunition  shooting  it  off  in  the  yard.  They  yelled  for  the  butcher  and  beat  on  the  door;  finally  they  broke  in.  Tyde,  who  was  hiding  upstairs,  concluded  that  they  were  after  his  mon-  ey,  so  he  put  some  bills  in  a  handker-  chief  and  sent  Becky  down  with  them,  perhaps  thinking  they  would  be  touched  or  scared  at  the  sight  of  a  little  wry-  necked  dwarf.  That  didn't  content  them.  They  came  upstairs  and  dragged  the  butcher  out  from  under  his  bed,  in  his  nightgown.  They  dragged  him  outside  and  stood  him  in  the  snow.  The  temperature  was  four  below  zero.  They  tried  to  hold  a  mock  trial,  but  they  couldn't  remember  how  it  was  supposed  to  be  done.  So  they  began  beating  him,  and  they  beat  him  till  he  fell.  They  yelled  &quot;Butcher's  meat!&quot;  and  continued  beating  him  until  his  night-  gown  and  the  snow  he  was  lying  in  turned  red.  Robert  said  later  that     he  did  not  watch  the  beating.  Becky  said  that  Robert  watched  at  first,  then  turned  away  and  hid.  She  her-  self  watched  all  the  way  through.  She  watched  the  men  leave  and  her  father  making  his  slow,  bloody  progress  through  the  snow  and  up  the  steps  of  the  veranda,  She  did  not  go  out  to  help  him  or  open  the  door  until  he  got  to  it.  Why  not,  she  was  asked.  She  said  she  did  not  go  out  because  she  had  her  nightie  on,  and  she  did  not  open  the  door  because  she  didn't  want  to  let  the  cold  into  the  house.  After  a  while  her  father  seemed  to  recover  his  strength.  He  sent  Robert  to  harness  the  horse,  made  Becky  heat  water  so  that  he  could  wash.  He  dressed  and  took  all  the  money  in  the  house,  and  with  no  explanation  drove  to  Belgrave,  where  he  left  the  horse  tied  in  the  cold,  and  took  the  early-  morning  train  to  [REDACTED].  On  the  train  he  behaved  oddly,  groaning  and  cursing  as  if  he  were  drunk.  He  was  picked  up  on  the  streets  of  [REDACTED]  a  day  later,  out  of  his  mind  with  fever,  and  was  taken  toa  hospital,  where  he  died.  He  still  had  all  the  money.  The  cause  of  death  was  given  as  pneumonia.  But  the  authorities  got  wind,  Flo  said.  The  case  came  to  trial.  The  three  men  who  did  it  received  long  prison  sentences.  Within  a  yearor  two  they  were  all  free,  had  jobs  waiting  for  them.  A  farce,  said  Flo.,  Too  many  higher-ups  were  in  on  it.  It  seemed  that  Becky  and  Robert  didn't  care;  they  showed  no  interest  in  seeing  jus-  tice  done.  With  their  father's  money,  they  were  well  off.  They  bought  a  house  over  on  the  other  side  of  the  bridge.  &quot;So  that  was  that,&quot;  Flo  liked  to  say  when  she  had  finished  the  story,  putting  the  lid  down  on  it  in  a  way  " b"that  reflected  no  good  on  anyone.  But  often  she  sighed,  as  if  her  curiosity  was  still  unsatisfied.  &quot;Imagine!&quot;  she  might  say  sternly.  Flo  at  this  time  would  have  been  thirty  or  thirty-one  years  old.  A  young  woman.  But  she  wore  exactly  the  same  clothes  as  a  woman  of  fifty,  sixty,  seventy  would  wear:  print  house-  dresses  loose  at  the  neck  and  sleeves  as  well  asat  the  waist;  bib  aprons,  also  print,  which  she  removed  when  she  came  from  the  kitchen  into  the  store.  This  was  a  common  costume  at  the  time  for  poor  but  not  absolutely  pov-  erty-stricken  young  women,  but  it  was  also  a  deliberate,  scornful  choice.  Scorn  was  something  frequently  expressed  in  that  house.  Flo  scorned  slacks,  she  scorned  the  outfits  of  people  trying  to  be  in  style,  she  scorned  lipstick  and  permanents.  She  wore  her  light-brown  hair  cut  straight,  long  enough  to  push  back  behind  her  ears.  It  was  very  fine  and  soft.  Nadine's  earliest  memories  of  Flo  were  of  extraordinary  softness  and  hardness.  The  soft  hair,  the  long,  soft  pale  cheeks,  with  pale  freckles,  the  soft,  almost  invisible  hairs  in  front  of  her  ears,  above  her  mouth.  The  sharpness  of  her  knees,  hardness  of  her  lap,  flat-  ness  of  her  front.  Flo  could  sing.  Working  around  the  store  or  the  kitchen,  she  sang  raucously:  Oh,  the  buzzin'  of  the  bees  in  the  cigarette  trees  Round  the  soda-water  fountains  ...  Also  softly,  but  with  the  most  keen  and  delicate  edge  of  scorn:  Then  slowly,  slowly,  she  got  up  And  slowly  she  came  nigh  him  And  all  she  said,  that  she  ever  did  say,  Was  &quot;Young  man,  I  think  you're  dyin'!&quot;  HE  royal  beatings.  What  got  them  started?  Suppose  a  Saturday,  in  spring.  Leaves  not  out  yet  but  the  doors  open  to  the  sunlight,  crows,  ditches  full  of  water.  Hopeful  weather.  Nadine  is  eleven  or  twelve  now,  and  on  Saturdays  Flo  leaves  her  in  charge  of  the  store  while  she  herself  goes  across  the  bridge  (go-  ing  uptown,  she  calls  it)  to  shop  and  see  people,  and  to  listen.  She  listens  to  Mrs.  Lawyer  Davis,  and  Mrs.  Angli-  can  Rector  Henley-Smith,  and  Mrs.  Horse  Doctor  McKay,  and  then  she  comes  home  and  imitates  them  at  sup-  per:  their  high-flown  remarks,  their  flibberty  voices.  Monsters,  she  makes  them  seem,  of  foolishness  and  showiness  and  self-approbation.  When  she  finishes  shopping  she  goes  into  the  coffee  shop  of  the  Queen's  Hotel  and  has  a  sundae.  (What  kind,  Nadine  and  Brian  ask  her  when  she  gets  home,  and  are  disappointed  if  it  is  only  pineapple  or  butterscotch,  pleased  if  it  is  a  Tin  Roof  or  a  Black  and  White.)  Then  she  smokes  a  cigarette.  She  has  some  ready-rolled,  which  she  carries  with  her,  so  that  she  will  not  have  to  roll  one  in  public.  Smoking  is  the  one  thing  she  does  which  she  would  call  showing  off  in  anybody  else.  She  picked  up  the  habit  in  [REDACTED].  She  knew  it  was  asking  for  trouble.  Once  a  Catholic  priest  came  up  to  her  in  the  coffee  shop  and  flashed  his  lighter  at  her  before  she  could  get  her  matches  out.  She  thanked  him  but  did  not  enter  into  conversation,  lest  he  try  to  convert  her.  Saturday,  then.  But  today  for  some  reason  Flo  is  not  going  uptown;  she  has  decided  to  stay  home  and  scrub  the  kitchen  floor.  Perhaps  this  has  put  her  in  a  bad  mood.  Or  perhaps  she  has  been  in  a  bad  mood  to  start  with,  because  people  have  not  been  paying  their  bills,  or  simply  because  of  the  queer  stirred-up  feelings  of  spring.  The  wrangle  with  Nadine  has  already  commenced;  it  has  been  going  on  for-  ever,  like  a  dream  that  goes  back  and  back  into  other  dreams,  over  hills  and  through  doorways,  maddeningly  dim  and  familiar  and  elusive.  Flo  and  Na-  dine  are  carting  all  the  chairs  out  of  the  kitchen  preparatory  to  the  scrubbing.  They  also  have  to  move  some  pro-  visions  for  the  store-some  cartons  of  canned  goods,  tins  of  maple  syrup,  coal-  oil  cans,  jars  of  vinegar.  They  take  these  things  to  the  woodshed,  which  is  behind  the  kitchen,  or  into  the  front  room.  Brian  is  helping  drag  the  tins. &quot;Yes,&quot;  says  Flo,  carrying  on  from  where  they  left  off  the  last  tune.  &quot;'Yes,  and  that  filth  you  taught  to  Brian.&quot;  &quot;What  filth?&quot;  &quot;And  he  doesn't  know  any  better.&quot;  There  is  one  step  down  from  the  kitchen  to  the  woodshed,  a  bit  ofcar-  pet  on  it  so  worn  Nadine  can't  re-  member  ever  seeing  the  pattern.  Brian  loosens  it  dragging  a  tin.  &quot;'IT  wo  Vancouvers,&quot;  Nadine  says  softly  to  Brian  when  Flo  is  back  in  the  kitchen.  Brian  looks  from  Flo  to  Na-  dine,  and  Nadine  says  again  in  a  slight-  ly  louder  voice,  an  encouraging  sing-  song,  &quot;TI  'wo  Vancouvers&quot;  &quot;Fried  in  snot!&quot;  says  Brian,  not  able  to  control  himself.  &quot;TI  wo  pickled  arseholes-&quot;  &quot;Tied  in  a  knot!&quot;  There  it  is  again,  the  filth.  Irresisti-  ble.  Two  Vancouvers  fried  in  snot!  Two  pickled  arseholes  tied  in  a  knot!  Nadine  learned  this  when  she  first  went  to  school.  She  came  home  and  asked  Flo  what  a  Vancouver  was.  &quot;It's  a  city,&quot;  Flo  said.  &quot;It's  a  long  ways  away.&quot;  &quot;What  else  besides  a  city?&quot;  Nadine  asked.  Flo  said  what  did  she  mean,  what  else.  How  could  it  be  fried,  asked  Nadine,  approaching  the  dangerous  moment,  the  delightful  moment,  when  she  would  have  to  come  out  with  the  whole  thing.  Nadine  couldn't  stop  her-  self.  She  hummed  it  tenderly,  tried  say- " b"ing  the  innocent  words  aloud,  hum-  ming  through  the  others.  It  was  not  just  the  forbidden  words  that  gave  her  pleasure,  though  of  course  they  did.  It  was  the  pickling  and  tying,  the  un-  imaginable  Vancouvers.  She  saw  them  in  her  mind,  shaped  something  like  octopuses,  twitching  in  the  pan.  Lately  she  has  remembered  it  and  taught  it  to  Brian,  to  see  if  it  has  the  same  effect  on  him.  It  has.  &quot;Oh,  I  heard  you!&quot;  cries  Flo  from  the  kitchen.  &quot;I  heard  that!  And  I'm  warning  you!&quot;  So  she  is.  Brian  takes  the  warning.  He  runs  out  the  woodshed  door,  Flo  and  Nadine  don't  need  him  anyway,  except  to  use  against  each  other,  and  hardly  notice  his  going.  They  continue,  can't  helpcontinuing,  can't  leave  each  other  alone.  When  they  seem  to  have  given  up,  they  are  just  waiting,building  up  steam.  Flo  gets  out  the  scrub  pail  and  the  brush  and  rag,  and  the  pad  for  her  knees-a  dirty  red  rubber  pad.  She  starts  to  work  on  the  floor.  Nadine  sits  on  the  table,  the  only  place  left  to  sit,  swinging  her  legs.  She  can  feel  the  cool  oilcloth,  because  she  is  wearing  last  summer's  tight  faded  shorts,  dug  out  of  the  summer-clothes  bag.  They  smell  slightly  moldy  from  their  winter  storage.  Flo  crawls  around  underneath,  scrubbing  with  the  brush,  wiping  with  the  rag.  Her  legs  are  white  and  muscu-  lar,  marked  all  over  with  inky  veins.  An  abnormal  energy,  a  violent  dis-  gust,  is  expressed  in  the  chewing  ofthe  brush  at  the  linoleum,  the  swish  ofthe  rag.  What  do  they  have  to  say  to  each  other?  It  doesn't  really  matter.  Flo  speaks  of  Nadine's  smart-aleck  behavior,  rudeness,  sloppiness,  conceit,  willing-  ness  to  make  work  for  others,  and  in-  gratitude.  She  mentions  Brian's  inno-  cence,  Nadine's  corruption.  She  dwells  a  moment  on  Nadine's  name.  Naedize.  That  pretentious  name  chosen  not  by  her  or  by  Nadine's  father  but  by  the  dead  woman  Nadine  has  occasionally  tried  to  idolize,  or  at  least  imagine.  &quot;You  think  you're  somebody,&quot;  says  Flo.  &quot;Who  do  you  think  you  are?&quot;  Nadine  contradicts  and  objects  with  a  poisonous  reasonableness  and  mildness,  displays  theatrical  unconcern.  Flo  goes  beyond  her  ordinary  scorn  and  becomes  amazingly  theatrical  herself,  saying  it  was  for  Nadine  she  sacrificed  her  life.  She  saw  the  father  saddled  with  a  daughter  and  thought,  What  is  that  man  going  to  do?  So  she  married  him,  and  here  she  is,  on  her  knees.  At  that  moment  the  bell  rings,  to  announce  a  customer.  Because  the  fight  is  on,  Nadine  is  notpermitted  to  go  into     \nthe  store  and  wait  on  whoever  it  is.  Flo  gets  up  and  throws  off  her  apron;  groaning,  she  goes  in  and  serves.  Na-  dine  hears  Flo  using  her  normal  voice,  and  makes  a  hateful  face  in  the  direc-  tion  of  it.  Flo  comes  back  and  ties  on  her  apron  and  is  ready  to  resume.  &quot;You  never  have  a  thought  for  what  I'm  do-  ing,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;I  never  asked  you  to  do  anything.  I  wish  you  never  had.  I  would  have  been  a  lot  better  off.&quot;  Nadine  says  this  smiling  directly  at  Flo,  who  is  not  yet  down  on  her  knees.  Flo  sees  the  smile,  grabs  the  scrub  rag,  which  is  hanging  on  the  side  ofthe  pail,  and  throws  it  at  Nadine.  It  may  be  meant  to  hit  Na-  dine  in  the  face  but  instead  it  falls  against  her  leg,  and  she  raises  her  foot  and  catches  it,  swinging  it  negligently  on  her  ankle.  &quot;All  right,&quot;  Flo  says.  &quot;You've  done  it  this  time.  Al  right.&quot;  Nadine  watches  her  go  to  the  wood-  shed  door.  She  calls  Nadine's  fa-  ther,  calls  him  by  his  name-  &quot;Harry&quot;- in  a  warning,  summoning  voice,  as  if  against  her  will  preparing  him  for  terri-  ble  news.  He  will  know  what  this  is  about.  The  kitchen  floor  has  five  or  six  different  patterns  of  linocleum-ends,  which  Flo  got  for  next  to  nothing  and  ingeniously  trimmed  and  fitted  togeth-  er,  bordering  them  with  tin  strips  fas-  tened  with  tacks.  While  Nadine  sits  on  the  table,  waiting,  she  looks  at  this  satis-  fying  arrangement  of  rectangles,  trian-  gles,  some  othershape  whose  name  she  is  trying  to  remember.  She  hears  Flo  walk  back  through  the  woodshed,  on  the  creaky  plank  walk  they  have  over  the  dirt.  She  is  loitering-waiting-too.  She  and  Nadine  can  carry  this  no  fur-  ther  without  help.  Nadine  hears  her  father  come  in.  She  stiffens;  a  tremor  runs  through  her  legs,  and  they  shiver  on  the  oil-  cloth.  Called  away  from  some  peace-  ful,  absorbing  task,  away  from  the  words  running  in  his  head-called  out  of  himself-her  father  has  to  say  something.  He  says,  &quot;Well?What's  wrong?&quot;  Now  comes  another  voice  of  Flo's.  Enriched,  hurt,  apologetic,  it  seems  to  havebeen  manufactured  on  the  spot.  She  is  sorry  to  have  called  him  from  his  work.  Would  never  have  done  it  if  Nadine  were  not  driving  her  to  dis-  traction.  How  to  distraction?  With  her  sass  and  her  back  talk  and  her  terrible  " b"tongue.  The  things  Nadine  says  to  Flo  are  such  that  if  Flo  had  said  them  to  her  mother,  her  father  would  have  thrashed  her  into  the  ground.  Nadine  tries  to  butt  in,  to  say  this  isn't  true.  Her  father  raises  a  hand,  doesn't  look  at  her,  says,  &quot;Quiet.&quot;  When  she  says  it  isn't  true,  Nadine  means  that  she  has  not  started  any-  thing,  only  responded,  that  she  was  goaded  by  Flo,  who  is  now,  Nadine  believes,  telling  the  grossest  sort  of  lies,  twisting  everything  to  suit  herself.  She  knows,  however,  that  whatever  Flo  has  said  or  done,  whatever  she  herself  has  said  or  done  does  not  really  matter;  it  is  the  struggle  itself  that  counts  and  that  can't  be  stopped,  can  never  be  stopped,  short  of  where  it  has  got  to  now.  Flo's  knees  are  dirty.  The  scrub  rag  is  still  hanging  over  Nadine's  foot.  Na-  dine's  father  wipes  his  hands,  listening  to  Flo.  He  takes  his  time.  He  is  slow  at  getting  into  the  spirit  of  things,  tired  in  advance,  maybe,  and  on  the  verge  of  rejecting  the  role  he  has  to  play.  He  won't  look  at  Nadine,  but  at  any  sound  or  stirring  from  her  he  holds  up  his  hand.  &quot;Well,  we  don't  need  the  public  in  on  this,  that's  one  thing,&quot;  Flo  says,  and  she  goes  to  lock  the  door  of  the  store,  putting  in  the  window  the  sign  that  says  &quot;Back  Soon&quot;-a  sign  Nadine  made  for  her  in  black  and  red  crayon,  with  a  good  deal  of  curving  and  shad-  ing  of  letters.  When  she  comes  back,  she  shuts  the  door  to  the  store,  then  the  door  to  the  stairs  and  the  doors  to  the  woodshed  and  the  front  room.  Her  shoes  have  left  marks  on  the  clean,  wet  part  of  the  floor.  &quot;Oh,  I  don't  know,&quot;  she  says,  in  a  voice  worn  down  from  its  emotional  peak.  &quot;I  don't  know  what  to  do  about  her.&quot;  She  looks  down,  following  Nadine's  eyes,  and  sees  her  dirty  knees,  and  rubs  them  viciously  with  her  hands,  smearing  the  dirt  around.  &quot;She  hwmuliates  me,&quot;  Flo  says,  straightening  up.  There  it  is,  the  explanation,  the  discovery.  &quot;She  tries  to  humiliate  me.  She  has  no  respect.  How  am  I  supposed  to  put  up  with  it?&quot;  &quot;I  do  not!&quot;  &quot;Quiet,  you!&quot;     &quot;If  I  hadn't  called  your  father,  wouldn't  you  still  be  sitting  there  with  that  grin  on  your  face?  What  other  way  is  there  to  manage  you?&quot;  Nadine  detects  in  her  father  some  objections  to  Flo's  rhetoric,  an  embar-  rassment  and  reluctance.  She  is  wrong,  and  ought  to  know  she  is  wrong,  in  thinking  she  can  count  on  this,  The  fact  that  she  knows  about  it,  and  that  he  knows  she  knows,  will  not  make  things  any  better.  He  is  begin-  ning  to  warm  up.  He  gives  her  a  look.  This  look  is  at  first  cold  and  chal-  lenging.  It  informs  her  of  his  judg-  ment,  of  the  hopelessness  of  her  position.  Then  it  clears,  begins  to  fill  up  with  something  else,  the  way  a  spring  fills  up  with  fresh  water  when  you  clear  the  leaves  and  scum  away.  His  eyes  fill  with  hatred  and  pleasure.  Nadine  sees  this  and  knows  what  it  is.  Or  is  it  just  anger,  are  his  eyes  simply  filling  with  anger?  No.  Hatred  is  right.  Pleasure  is  right.  His  face  loosens  and  changes  and  grows  younger,  and  he  holds  up  his  hand,  this  time  to  silence  Flo.  &quot;All  right,&quot;  he  says,  meaning,  " b"That's  enough,  more  than  enough;  this  part  is  over,  things  can  proceed.  He  startsto  loosen  his  belt.  Flo  has  stopped  anyway.  She  has  a  difficulty  Nadine  shares,  a  difficulty,  apparently,  in  believing  that  what  you  know  must  happen  will  happen,  that  there  comes  a  time  when  you  can't  draw  back.  &quot;Oh,  I  don't  know.  Don't  be  too  hard  on  her.&quot;  Flo  is  moving  around  nervously  as  if  she  has  thoughts  of  opening  some  escape  route.  &quot;Oh,  you  don't  have  to  use  the  belt  on  her.  Do  you  have  to  use  the  belt?  Couldn't  you  give  her  a  talking-to?&quot;  Couldn't  you  just  slap  her  hands?&quot;  He  doesn't  answer.  The  belt  is  com-  ing  off,  but  not  hastily.  Now  it  is  being  grasped  at  the  necessary  point.  &quot;All  right,  you.&quot;  He  comes  over  to  Nadine,  pushesher  off  the  table.  His  face,  like  his  voice,  is  entirely  out  of  character.  He  is  like  a  bad  actor  who  turns  a  part  grotesque.  It  is  as  if  he  is  savoring  and  insisting  on  just  what  is  shameful  and  terrible  about  this,  so  that  Nadine  will  have  no  doubt  about  it,  so  that  he  himself  will  have  no  doubt.  That  does  not  mean  that  he  is  pretending,  that  he  is  not  real.  He  is  real  and  he  is  acting.  Nadine  knows  it;  she  knows  everything  about  him.  At  the  first,  or  maybe  the  second,  crack  of  pain,  Nadine  draws  back.  She  will  not  accept  it.  She  runs  around  the  room;  she  tries  to  get  to  the  doors.  Her  father  blocks  her.  Not  an  ounce  of  courage  or  of  stoicism  in  her,  it  seems.  She  runs,  she  screams,  she  im-  plores.  Her  father  is  after  her,  crack-  ing  the  belt  when  he  can,  then  aban-  doning  it  and  using  his  hands.  Bang  over  the  ear,  then  bang  over  the  other  ear.  Back  and  forth,  her  head  ringing.  Bang  in  the  face.  Up  against  the  wall  and  bang  in  thefaceagain.  He  shakes  her,  he  kicks  her  legs.  She  is  incoherent,  insane,  shrieking,  &quot;Forgive  me!  Oh,  please  forgive  me!&quot;  Flo  is  shrieking,  too.  &quot;Stop,  stop!&quot;  Not  yet.  He  throws  her  down.  Or  perhaps  Nadine  throws  herself  down.  He  kicks  her  legs  again.  She  has  given  upon  words  but  is  letting  out  a  noise  that  makes  Flo  cry,  &quot;Oh,  what  if  peo-  ple  can  hear?&quot;  The  very  last-ditch,  willing  sound  of  humiliation  it  is-the  admitting,  even  embracing  of  defeat.  It  seems  that  Nadine  must  play  her  part  with  the  same  grossness,  exaggera-  tion  that  her  father  displays  in  his.  She  plays  the  victim  with  a  self-indulgence  that  arouses  his  final,  sickened  con-  tempt.  Still,  he  has  never  managed  to  really  injure  her,  though  there  are  times,  of  course,  when  she  prays  that  he  will.  He  hits  her  with  an  open  hand;  there  is  some  restraint  in  his  kicks.  Now  he  stops;  he  is  out  of  breath.  He  allows  Flo  to  move  in;  he  gives  Nadine  a  push  in  Flo's  direction,  mak-  ing  a  sound  of  disgust.  Flo  retrieves her,  opens  the  stair  door,  shoves  her  up  the  stairs.  &quot;Go  on  up  to  your  roomnow!  Hurry!&quot;  Nadine  goes  up  the  stairs,  stum-  bling,  letting  herself  fall  against  the  steps.  She  doesn't  bang  her  door,  be-  cause  a  gesture  like  that  could  still  bring  him  after  her.  She  shuts  it,  and  she  lies  on  the  bed.  She  can  hear  through  the  stovepipe  hole  Flo  snuf-  fling  and  remonstrating.  Her  father  says  to  Flo  that  if  she  did  not  want  Nadine  punished  she  should  not  have  recommended  it.  Flo  says  she  never  recommended  a  hiding  like  that.  They  argue  back  and  forth  on  this,  Flo's  frightened  voice  growing  stronger,  steadier,  getting  its  confidence  back.  By  stages,  by  arguing,  they  are  being  drawn  back  into  themselves.  Soon  only  Flo  is  talking;  he  will  not  talk  any-  more.  Nadine's  sobbing  has  had  to  sub-  side  rather  quickly,  to  let  her  listen,  and  when  she  loses  interest  in  listening,  wants  to  sob  some  more,  she  finds  she  can't  work  herself  up  to  it.  She  has  passed  into  a  state  of  calm,  in  which  outrage  is  complete  and  final.  She  will  never  speak  to  them  again,  she  will  never  look  at  them  with  anything  but  loathing,  she  will  never  forgive  them.  She  will  punish  them,  she  will  finish  them.  Encased  in  these  finalities,  and  in  her  pain,  she  floats  in  curious  comfort,  beyond  herself,  beyond  responsibility.  Suppose  I  die,  she  thinks.  Suppose  I  commit  suicide.  Suppose  I  run  away.  Any  of  these  things  would  be  appropri-  ate.  It  is  only  a  matter  of  choosing,  of  figuring  out  the  way.  She  floats  in  her  pure  superior  state  as  if  kindly  drugged.  And  just  as  when  you  are  drugged  there  is  a  moment  in  which  you  feel  perfectly  safe,  sure,  unreachable,  and  then  without  warning  a  moment  when  you  know  the  whole  protection  has  cracked,  though  you  are  still  pre-  tending  to  hold  it  soundly  together,  so  there  is  a  mo-  ment  now-the  moment,  in  fact,  when  she  hears  Flo's  step  on  the  stairs  that  contains  for  Nadine  both  her  present  peace  and  freedom  and  a  sure  knowl-  edge  of  the  whole  down-  spiralling  course  of  events  to  come,.  Flo  enters  the  room  without  knocking,  but  with  a  hesitation  that  shows  it  might  have  occurred  to  her.  " b"She  brings  a  jar  of  cold  cream.  Nadine  is  hanging  on  to  her  advantage  as  long  as  she  can,  lying  face  down  on  the  bed,  refusing  to  acknowledge  or  answer.  &quot;Oh,  come  on,&quot;  Flo  says.  &quot;You're  not  so  bad  off.  You  put  some  of  this  on  you  and  you'll  feel  better.&quot;  She  is  bluffing.  She  doesn't  know  for  sure  what  damage  has  been  done.  She  has  the  lid  off  the  cold  cream.  Nadine  can  smell  it.  The  intimate,  babyish,  humiliating  smell.  She  won't  allow  it  near  her.  But  in  order  to  avoid  the  big  ready  clot  of  it  in  Flo's  hand,  she  has  to  move.  She  scuffles,  resists,  loses  dignity,  and  lets  Flo  see  there  is  not  really  much  the  matter.  &quot;All  right,&quot;  Flo  says.  &quot;You  win.  I'll  leave  it  here,  andyou  can  put  it  on  when  you  like.&quot;  Later  still,  a  tray  will  appear.  Flo  will  put  it  down  without  a  word  and  go  away.  A  large  glass  of  chocolate  milk  will  be  on  it,  made  with  Ovaltine  from  the  store-some  rich  streaks  of  Oval-  tine  at  the  bottom  of  the  glass.  Little  sandwiches,  neat  and  appetizing,  made  with  canned  salmon  of  the  first  quality,  reddish  incolor,  and  with  plenty  of  mayonnaise.  A  couple  of  butter  tarts  from  a  bakery  package,  some  chocolate  biscuits  with  a  peppermint  filling.  Na-  dine  will  turn  away,  refuse  to  look,  but  left  alone  with  theseeatables  she  will  be  miserably  tempted.  She  will  be  roused  and  troubled  and  drawn  back  from  thoughts  of  suicide  or  flight  by  the  smell  of  salmon,  the  anticipation  of  crisp  chocolate.  She  will  reach  out  a  finger,  just  to  run  it  around  the  edge  of  one  of  the  sandwiches  (crusts  cut  off!  )  to  get  the  overflow,  a  taste.  Then  she  will  de-  cide  to  eat  one,  for  strength  to  refuse  the  rest.  One  will  not  be  noticed.  Then,  in  helpless  corruption,  she  will  eat  them  all.  She  will  drink  the  choco-  late  milk,  eatthe  tarts,  eat  the  cookies.  She  will  get  out  the  malt  syrup  at  the  bottom  of  the  glass  with  her  finger,  sniffling  with  shame.  Too  late.  Flo  will  come  up  and  get  the  tray.  Depending  on  how  chastened  she  herself  is  feeling,  she  may  say,  &quot;I  see  you  got  your  appe-  tite  still,&quot;  or  &quot;Did  you  like  the  choco-  late?  Was  there  enough  syrup  in  it?&quot;  At  any  rate,  advantage  will  be  lost.  Na-  dine  will  understand  that  life  has  start-  ed  up  again,  that  they  will  all  sit  around  the  table  again,  eating,  listening  to  the  radio  news-tomorrow  morning,  may-  be  even  tonight,  unseemly  and  unlikely  as  that  may  be.  They  will  be  embar-  rassed,  but  rather  less  than  you  might  expect,  considering  how  they  behaved.  They  will  feel  a  queer  lassitude,  a  con-  valescent  indolence,  not  far  from  satis-  faction.  They  will  feel  like  talking  then;  they  will  be  making  offerings,  as  if  to  visitors.  \xe2\x80\x9cDO  you  know  what  the  old  fel-  lows  are  thinking  now?&quot;  Na-  dine's  father  said  after  one  of  these  scenes.  'They  had  eaten  supper  and  were  sitting  in  the  kitchen.  &quot;Who?&quot;  said  Flo  quite  eagerly.  &quot;What?&quot;  He  nodded  toward  the  front  of  the  store,  so  that  they  knew  he  was  talk-  ing  about  the  old  menwho  sat  on  the  bench,  though  of  course  they  weren't  there  at  present;  they  went  home  at  dark.  &quot;'Those  &quot;What?&quot;  He  told  them  that  the  old  men  had  picked  up  the  idea  somewhere  that  what  looked  like  a  star  in  the  western  sky-the  first  star  that  came  out  after  sunset,  the  evening  star-was  in  re-  ality  an  airship  hovering  over  Bay  City,  [REDACTED],  on  the  other  side  of  Lake  [REDACTED].  An  American  invention,  they  said,  sent  up  to  rival  the  heavenly  bodies.  'They  were  all  in  agreement  about  this;  theidea  was  congenial  to  them.  They  said  it  was  lit  by  ten  thou-  sand  electric  light  bulbs.  He  ruthlessly  disagreed  with  them,  pointed  out  that  it  was  the  planet  [REDACTED],  and  had  been  there  long  before  there  was  such  a  thing  as  an  electric  light  bulb.  They  had  never  heard  ofthe  planet  [REDACTED].  &quot;Ignoramuses,&quot;  said  Flo.  At  which  Nadine  and  her  father  knew,and  old  said  Flo.  coots,&quot;  knew  that  each  other  knew,  that  Flo  did  not  know  the  star  was  the  planet  [REDACTED],  either.  To  distract  them  from  this,  or  apologize  for  it,  Flo  put  down  her  cup,  slid  down  on  her  chair  so  that  just  the  top  of  her  head  rested  on  the  seat,  hooked  another  chair  with  her  feet  (somehow  managing  at  the  same  time  to  tuck  her  dress  modestly  between  her  legs),  and  lay  stretched  between  them  stiff  as  a  board,  so  that  Brian  cried  in  delight,  &quot;Do  that!  Do  that!&quot;  Flo  was  double-jointed  and  very  strong.  In  moments  of  celebra-  tion  or  emergency  she  would  do  tricks.  They  were  silent  while  she  turned  herself  around,  not  using  her  arms  at  all  but  just  her  strong  legs  and  feet.  Then,  though  they  had  seen  it  before,  they  all  cried  out  in  triumph.  Just  as  Flo  turned  herself,  Nadine  imagined  that  airship,  an  elongated  transparent  bubble,  with  its  strings  of  diamond  lights,  floating  in  the  miracu-  lous  American  sky.  &quot;''The  planet  [REDACTED]!&quot;  her  father  said,  applauding  Flo.  &quot;Ten  thousand  electric  lights!&quot;  There  was  a  feeling  of  relaxation,  permission,  even  a  current  of  delight  in  the  room.  Nadine  went  and  stood  on  her  head  in  the  corner,  knowing  that  when  they  noticed  her  they  would  laugh.  The  beatings  stopped  after  three  or  four  years,  either  because  Nadine  was  getting  too  shamefully  big  or  because  her  father  no  longer  had  the  strength  " b"to  deliver  them  orsimply  because  the  time  for  them  had  passed-like  the  time  for  losing  baby  teeth.  YEARS  later,  on  a  Sunday  morn-  ing  Nadine  turned  on  the  radio.  She  was  living  in  Vancouver  then,  with  a  man  who  slept  late  on  Sunday  morn-  ings.  Sometimes  she  worked  as  an  ac-  tress,  sometimes  she  worked  in  a  book-  store.  She  had  an  apartment  with  a  view  of  the  mountains-when  the  clouds  lifted  and  it  was  possible  to  see  them.  &quot;Well,  [REDACTED];  an  old  man's  voice  was  saying  on  the  radio.  &quot;It  was  a  differ-  ent  kind  of  place  in  our  day.  Yes,  it  was.  It  was  all  horses  then.  Horses  and  buggies.  Buggy  races  upand  down  the  main  street  on  Saturday  nights.&quot;  &quot;Just  like  the  chariot  races  in  the  old  days,&quot;  said  a  smoother,  encourag-  ing  voice,  apparently  an  interviewer's.  &quot;I  have  never  seen  a  one  of  them.&quot;  &quot;No,  sir,  that  was  well  before  your  time.&quot;  &quot;Musta  been  before  my  time.  I'm  a  hunnerd  and  two  years  old.&quot; &quot;  That's  a  wonderful  age,  sir.&quot;  &quot;It  is  so.&quot;  Nadine  left  it  on,  She  was  up  early,  making  coffee  for  herself.  It  seemed  to  her  that  this  must  bea  staged  inter-  view,  a  scene  from  a  play.  The  old  man's  voice  was  so  vain  and  belliger-  ent,  the  interviewer's  quite  hopeless  and  alarmed,  under  its  practiced  gentleness  and  ease.  &quot;They  must  havebeen  fairly  dan-  gerous,&quot;  the  interviewer  said.  &quot;What  was  dangerous?&quot;  &quot;'Those  buggy  races.&quot;  &quot;They  was.  Dangerous.  Used  to  be  the  runaway  horses.  Used  to  be  a-plen-  ty  of  accidents.  Fellows  was  dragged  along  the  gravel  and  cut  their  face  open.  Wouldna  matter  so  much  if  they  was  dead.  Heh,  Some  of  them  horses  was  the  high-steppers.  Some,  they  had  to  have  the  mustard  under  their  tail.  Some  wouldn't  step  out  for  nothing.  That's  the  thing  it  is  with  the  horses.  Some'll  work  and  pull  till  they  drop  down  dead  and  some  wouldn't  pull  your  tail  out  of  a  pail  of  lard.  Heh. Accidents  all  the  time  then.  In  the  mill,  Foundry.  Wasn't  the  precau-  tions.&quot;  &quot;You  didn't  have  so  many  strikes  then,  I  don't  suppose?  You  didn't  have  so  many  unions?&quot;  &quot;Everybody  taking  it  easy  now-  adays.  We  worked  and  we  was  glad  to  get  it.  Worked  and  was  glad  to  get  it.&quot;  You  didn't  have  television.&quot;  &quot;Didn't  have  no  TV.  Didn't  have  no  radio.  No  picture  show.&quot;  You  made  your  own  entertain-  ment.&quot;  &quot;'That's  what  we  did.&quot;  &quot;You  had  a  lot  of  experiences  young  men  growing  up  today  will  never  have.&quot;  &quot;Experiences.&quot;  &quot;Can  you  recall  any  of  them  for  us?&quot;  &quot;I  eaten  groundhog  meat  one  time.  One  winter,.  You  wouldna  cared  for  it.&quot;  There  was  a  pause-of  appreciation,  it  would  seem-then  the  announcer's  voice  saying  that  the  foregoing  had  been  an  interview  with  Mr.  Wil-  fred  Nettleton,  of  Hanratty,  Ontario,  recorded  on  his  hundred-and-second  birthday,  two  weeks  before  his  death  last  spring.  A  living  link  with  our  past,  Mr.  Nettleton  had  been  interviewed  in  the  Wawanosh  County  Home  for  the  Aged.  Hat  Nettleton.  Nadine,  looking  out  from  her  apart-  ment  kitchen  toward  the  mountains  ofthe  North  Shore,  longed  to  tell  somebody.  It  was  Flo  who  would  en-  joy  hearing,.  Nadine  thought  of  her  saying  &quot;Imagine!&quot;  in  the  way  that  meant  she  was  having  her  worst  sus-  picions  gorgeously  confirmed.  But  Flo  was  in  the  same  place  Hat  Nettleton  had  died  in;  she  had  been  there  when  that  interview  was  made,  though  she  would  not  have  heard  it,  would  not  even  have  known  about  it.  It  didn't  matter  to  Flo  where  she  was.  After  Nadine  puther  in  the  Home,  acouple  of  years  earlier,  she  had  stopped  talk-  ing.  She  had  removed  herself,  and  spent  most  of  her  time  curled  up  into  a  corner  of  her  crib,  where  she  sat  look-  ing  crafty  and  disagreeable,  not  an-  swering  anybody,  though  she  occasion-  ally  showed  her  feelings  by  biting  a  nurse. "