 b"I  SUPPOSE  I  qualified  as  Chair-man  of  this  Selection  Board  through  a  combination  of  too  much  curried  lobster  and  a  long  evening's  reading  about  human  variation  and  the  origins  of  man,.  It  doesn't  matter.  There  we  were,  surrounded  by  a  roomful  of  candidates  as  hairy  and  beetle-browed  as  you  could  wish  to  see.  One  of  them  began  to  recommend  himself,  in  what  I  took  to  be  typically  Pleistocene  accents,  before  I  had  even  got  my  bifocals  on  or  my  pencil  prop-  erly  squared  off  on  top  of  my  note  pad.  One  moment,  please.  Allow  me  to  introduce  my  fellow-as-  sessors  on  the  board.  Mr.  Darwin,  Dr.  Wallace,  Sir  Arthur  Keith,  Dr.  Leakey,  Professor  Dart,  1Abb\xc3\xa9  Breuil,  Dr.  Stewart,  Professor  Dobzhansky,  Eu-  gene  Dubois,  Professor  G.  H.  R.  von  Koenigswald,  Professor  Coon,  Profes-  sor  Asimov,  and  thirty-six  other  an-  thropologists,  zoologists,  paleontologists,  and  geochemists  whose  names  I  forget.  Dr.  Huxley  has  been  detained  by  a  Bishop  Wilberforce  and  sends  his  apol-  ogies.  A  VorcEe:  surely?  Cnarrman:  This  is  not  a  time  for  jesting.  Will  candidates  who  wish  to  speak  begin  by  stating  their  names  or  species,  preferably  in  italics?  And  one  at  a  time,  if  you  will  beso  good.  A  VorcE:  Homo  erectus-once  known  as  Peking  Man.  Which  proves  my  point,  I  think.  If,  as  I  understand  it,  Mr.  Chairman,  the  business  of  your  board  is  to  determine  the  earliest  True  Man-though  what,  in  that  case,  all  these  propliopithecoids  and  proconsuls  are  doing  here  beats  me  entirely,  con-  sidering  that  some  of  them  had  hardly  come  down  out  of  the  trees,  whereas  I  myself  had  no  sooner  been  discovered  in  the  Chou-kou-tien  Caves  when-  A  Vorce:  Ramapithecus.  I  am  four-  teen  million  years  old,  as  dated  by  the  potassium-argon  method  and  vouched  for  by  Professor  E.L.  Simons,  of  Yale,  and  I  very  much  resent  this  slur  from  so-called  Homo  erectus,  who  can  barely  remember  the  Middle  Ice  Age,  and,  what  is  more,  had  cracked  thigh-  bones  when  found  end  a  hole  in  his  skull  through  which  the  brains,  such  as  they  were,  had  been  extracted,  sug-  gesting  cannibalism.  Speaking  as  I  do  on  behalf  of  Bramapithecus  and  Ken-  yapithecus  wickeri,  both  of  whom,  as  you  will  know,  sir,  have  been  subsumed  under  my  own  genus  by  David  R.  Pil-  beam,  working  in  conjunction  with  Professor  Simons,  I  wish  to  state  that  His  anthropapologies,  we  Lower  Pliocene  primates  from  In-  dia  and  East  Africa-  Homo  ErEcrUs:  Nevermind  my  cracked  thighbones.  If  Raemapithecus  will  take  the  trouble  to  read  Mr.  Lewis  Mumford's  paper  in  The  American  Scholar,  Vol.  36,  he  will  see  that  the  extraction  of  marrow  in  my  day  may  havebeen  part  of  a  &quot;sacrificial,  magico-  religious  ceremony&quot;  or,  perhaps,  used  to  help  light  a  fire.  And  what  about  kidney  transplants  as  practiced  by  Homo  sopiens?  Even  a  pongid,  I  imagine,  would  hardly  describe  that  as  cannibal-  ism,  in  present  company.  CHAIRMAN:  Gentlemen,  gentle-  men!  And  ape-men,  too,  of  course.  Personal  abuse,  except  as  between  members  of  the  board,  will  get  us  no-  where.  I  must  ask  you  to  address  all  remarks  to  the  Chair.  A  Vorce:  It's  all  this  measuring  of  brainpans  that  I  object  to.  CHAIRMAN:  Name,  please?  Vorce:  Australopithecus-when  I  last  heard,  that  is.  Though  some  say  Zinjanthropus  boisei  (laughter),  and  dear  old  Leakey  there  used  to  call  me  Homo  habilis.  Anyway,  I'm  tired  of  being  written  off,  or  down,  as  a  six-  hundred-cubic-centimetre  skull.  One  is  not  a  motor  bicycle.  It  is  not  the  vol-  ume  that  matters  but  the  density  of  the  contents,  and  what  do  all  those  grin-  ning  paleontologists  know  about  that?  If  a  black  hole  in  space  can  contain  a  billion  times  more-  AEGYPTOPITHECUsS:  Nobody  doubts  your  density,  old  man.  AustrALOPITHECUs:  I  am  obliged  " b"by  the  &quot;old  man&quot;-a  term  that  no  one  would  dream  of  applying  to  Aegypto-  pithecus,  who  reeks  of  the  Late  Oligo-  cene.  As  a  well-known  tool  user  in  the  old  days  at  Olduvai-  NEanpErtHAtL  Man:  Oh,  I  say,  let  us  have  no  claims  based  on  tool  us-  ing,  for  pity's  sake,  or  we  shall  have  Camarhynehus  pallidus  piping  up  next!  CHAaIrMaNn:  I'm  not  quite-  Is  there  a  Camarhynchus  pallidus  in  the  house?  NEanpERTHAL  Man:  I  am  refer-  ring,  as  some  of  your  zoological  col-  leagues  may  know,  to  the  woodpecker  finch,  which  employs  a  cactus  thorn  to  extract  maggots  from  awkward  crev-  ices.  RamarprrHrcus:  Better  look  out  for  that  skull  of  yours,  Homo  erectus.  NEanpERTHAL  Max:  If,  as  I  was  saying,  we  are  going  to  talk  about  tools,  let  us  at  least  distinguish  between  tool-  makers  and  pitiful  apes  who  occasional-  ly  bashed  about  with  ready-made  round  stones,  chipped  or  not.  Even  then,  if  anybody  is  going  to  stand  up  and  say  that  the  first  toolmakers  were  the  first  men,  why  did  it  take  them  a  million  and  a  half  years  to  turn  out  any  worth-  while  implements?  The  hallmark  of  Man,  sir,  is  the  ability  to  evolve  rapid-  ly.  Now,  a  colleague  of  mine  from  the  Shanidar  Cave,  in  49726171,  had  an  arm  amputated  around  forty-six  thousand  years  ago-as  I  am  sure  Dr.  T.  Dale  Stewart,  of  the  Smithsonian  Institution,  will  agree-and  survived.  There's  progress  for  you.  Beetle-browed  we  may  have  been,  and  hairy  (though  I  doubt  whether  all  members  ofthe  board  will  fault  us  for  that),  but  our  arms  were  short,  unlike  those  of  some  candidates  I  could  name,  and  I  should  like  to  re-  mind  you  all  that  the  description  ofus  as  stunted,  stooping,  and  shambling,  given  by  M.  Marcellin  Boule  as  recent-  ly  as  1911,  has  now  been  corrected  by  two  eminent  professors  of  anatomy,  who  diagnosed  arthritis-a  thoroughly  human  characteristic.  CrHorus  or  Homintns:  Is  that  why  you  so  soon  became  extinct?  ArricantTHropus  NparasEnNsHS:  Sofarash  um  consherned--  CHAIRMAN:  Could  you  speak  a  lit-  tle  more  distinctly?  Grimatot  Man:  I  don't  think  he  can.  One  of  your  colleagues  has  got  three-quarters  of  the  lower  half  of  his  jaw.  CHAIRMAN  :  I  see.  Anybody  else?  Davorrrurcus:  I  follow  Hockett  and  Ascher,  of  Cornell.  The  vital  at-  tainment  that  eventually  distinguished  civilized  man  from  the  beasts  was,  as  they  rightly  claim,  theact  of  carrying  -the  ability  to  transport  possessions, from  twigs  to  credit  cards,  from  one  place  to  another.  Now,  I  was  a  great  carrier.  Evidence  may  be  lacking,  but  I  must  point  out  to  the  Chairman  that  even  the  most  headstrong  anthropolo-  gist  would  hesitate  to  deduce  twig  carrying  from  a  couple  of  molars  dug  up  in  Northwest  496e646961.  You  must  take  my  word  for  it.  Cro-Macnon  Manx:  This  is  be-  coming  ridiculous.  The  time  has  come  to  put  a  stop  to  the  chattering  of  these  pitiful  pongids,  pithecoids,  anthropoids,  hominids,  and  ape-men  of  every  kind,  " b"who  try  to  better  themselves  on  no  sounder  basis  than  an  upper  jaw  or  bits  of  an  ankle  bone  mulled  over  by  some  paleontologist  with  Miocene  mud  all  over  his  boots.  &quot;His  jaw  was  roomy  enough  for  a  tongue  to  be  used  in  speech&quot;-that's  Professor  Berrill,  of  Swarthmore,  chattering  away  in  his  turn  about  a  fragment  of  Homo  habi-  lis.  How  does  he  know  it  wasn't  roomy  enough  to  eat  two  bananas  at  the  same  time?  Are  you  aware,  sir,  that  in  the  search  for  the  origins  of  man,  apart  from  the  size  of  the  skull,  wear  of  teeth,  descent  from  the  trees,  bipedal-  ism,  shape  of  the  feet,  use  of  weapons,  speech,  tools,  carrying  ability,  genes,  an  opposable  thumb,  embryology,  blood  groups,  fire,  cooking,  and  ritual,  an-  thropologists  have  adduced  in  evidence  the  closure  of  the  orbit  behind  the  eye,  the  ability  to  slaughter  elephants,  and  a  sense  of  humor?  But  the  critical  diver-  gence  of  man  from  ape  is  to  be  found  in  no  such  trifle.  It  is  the  ability  to  re-  produce  (loud  laughter)-to  reproduce  on  the  walls  of  caves  or  other  suitable  surfaces  the  veritable  lineaments  of  the  world  about  us  upon  which  I  base  ...  In  short,  it  is  as  the  first  artist  that  I  confidently  claim  to  be  the  original  rep-  resentative  of  True  Man.  CHarrMaAn:  Thank  you.  No  doubt  Aurignacian  Man  will  have  something  to  say  on  that  subject.  We  have  also  yet  to  hear,  I  note,  from  Meganthro-  pus  palaecjavanicus,  Homo  modjoker-  tensis,  Paranthropus,  Telanthropus,  Swanscombe  Man,  and,  of  course,  G+  gantopithecus  blacki,.  Nor  am  I  un-  aware  that  twenty  or  thirty  members  of  the  board  have  for  some  time  been  indicating  their  willingness  to  put  in  a  word.  As  the  hour  is  approaching  the  noon  recess,  I  therefore  suggest  that  we  adjourn  at  this  time  and  recon-  vene-shall  we  say-a  thousand  years  from  now.  A  Very  Smart  Lemur:  By  which  time,  I  daresay,  competition  to  claim  prime  responsibility  for  the  human  race  may  have  sensibly  declined.  "