 b"WHY  this  reminiscence,  this  public  straining  of  noodles  in  the  colander  of  memory?  The  Chairman  despised  loose  talk.  Each  time  we  parted,  he  would  seal  my  lips  together  with  spirit  gum  and  whisper,  &quot;Mum  for  Mao.&quot;  During  our  ten-  year  relationship,  we  quarrelled  only  once-when  I  managed  todissolve  the  spirit  gum  with  nail-polish  remov-  er  and  told  my  best  friend  about  us,  and  it  got  back  to  a  relative  of  the  Chairman's  in  Mongolia.  These  things  happen;  somebody  always  knows  some-  body.  But  for  one  month  the  Chair-  man  kept  up  a  punishing  silence,  even  though  we  had  agreed  to  write  each  other  daily  when  it  was  not  possible  to  be  together.  Finally,  he  cabled  this  directive:  &quot;ANGRILY  ATTACK  THE  CRIMES  OF  SILLY  BLABBERMOUTHS.&quot;  I  knew  then  that  I  was  forgiven;  his  love  ever  wore  the  tailored  gray  uni-  form  of  instruction. Until  now,  writing  a  book  about  this  well-known  man  has  been  the  farthest  thing  from  my  mind-except  perhaps  for  writing  a  book  about  someone  else.  I  lacked  shirts  with  cuffs  to  jot  memo-  randums  on  when  he  left  the  room.  I  was  innocent  of  boudoir  electronics.  I  failed  even  to  record  the  dates  of  his  secret  visits  to  this  country  (though  I  am  now  free  to  disclose  that  these  visits  were  in  connection  with  very  important  official  paperwork  and  high-  powered  meetings).  But  how  can  I  hide  while  other  women  publish?  Even  my  friends  are  at  it.  Fran  is  writing  &quot;Konnie!  :  Adenauer  in  Love.&quot;  Penny  and  Harriet  are  collaborating  on  &quot;Yal-  ta  Groupies.&quot;  And  my  Great-Aunt  Jackie  has  just  received  a  six-figure  advance  for  &quot;'Bill  of  Particulars:  An  Intimate  Memoir  of  William  Dean  Howells.&quot;  Continued  silence  on  my  part  would  only  lead  to  speculation  that  Mao  alone  among  the  greatest  men  of  the  century  could  not  com-  mand  a  literate  young  mistress.  That  this  role  was  to  be  mine  I  could  scarcely  have  foreseen  until  I  met  him  in  1966.  He,  after  all,  was  a  head  of  state,  I  a  mere  span-  gle  on  the  midriff  of  the  American  republic.  But  you  never  know  what  will  happen,  and  then  it  is  not  pos-  sible  to  remember  it  until  it  has  al-  ready  happened.  That  is  the  way  things  were  with  our  first  encounter.  Only  now  that  it  is  past  can  I  look  back  upon  it.  Now  I  can  truly  see  the  details  of  the  Mayflower  Hotel  in  [REDACTED],  with  its  many  halls  and  doors,  its  carpeted  Grand  Suite.  I  can  feel  the  static  electricity  generated  by  my  cheap  nylon  waitress's  dress,  the  warmth  of  the  silver  tray  on  which  I  hoisted  a  selection  of  pigs-in-  blankets.  Chairman  Mao  was  alone.  He  sat  in  the  center  of  the  room,  in  an  uphol-  stered  armchair-a  man  who  looked  as  if  he  might  know  something  I  didn't.  He  was  round,  placid,  smooth  as  a  cheese.  When  I  bent  over  him  with  the  hors  d'oeuvres,  he  said  in  perfect  Eng-  lish  but  with  the  mid-back-rounded  vowels  pitched  in  the  typical  sharps  and  flats  of  Shaoshan,  &quot;Will  you  have  a  bite  to  eat  with  me?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  I  said.  In  those  days,  I  never  said  yes  to  anything.  I  was  holding  out  for  something  better  than  what  every-  body  had.  He  closed  his  eyes.  By  means  of  that  tiny,  almost  im-  patient  gesture,  he  had  hinted  that  my  way  of  life  was  wrong.  I  felt  shamed,  yet  oddly  exhilarated  by  the  reproof.  That  night  I  turned  down  an  invitation  to  go  dancing  with  a  suture  salesman  who  gamely  tried  to  date  me  once  in  a  while.  In  some  way  I  could  not  yet  grasp,  the  Chairman  had  renewed  my  sense  of  possibility,  and  I  just  wanted  to  stay  home.  ONE  evening  about  six  months  later,  there  was  a  knock  at  my  door.  It  was  the  Chairman,  cheerful  on  rice  wine.  With  his  famous  econo-  my  of  expression,  he  embraced  me  and  taught  me  the  Ten  Right  Rules  of  Lovemaking:  Reconnoitre,  Recruit,  Relax,  Recline,  Relate,  Reciprocate,  Rejoice,  Recover,  Reflect,  and  Re-  tire.  I  was  surprised  by  his  ardor,  for  I  knew  the  talk  that  he  had  been  in-  capacitated  by  a  back  injury  in  the  Great  Leap  Forward.  In  truth,  his  spine  was  supple  as  a  peony  stalk.  The  only  difficulty  was  that  it  was  sensitive  to  certain  kinds  of  pressure.  A  few  times  he  was  moved  to  remind  me,  " b"&quot;Please,  don't  squeeze  the  Chairman.&quot;  When  I  awoke  the  next  morning,  he  was  sitting  up  in  bed  with  his  eyes  closed.  I  asked  him  if  he  was  think-  ing.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  he  said,  without  opening  his  eyes.  I  was  beginning  to  find  his  demeanor  a  little  stylized.  But  what  right  did  I  have  to  demand  emotion?  The  Cultural  Revolu-  tion  had  just  started,  and  ideas  of  the  high-  est  type  were  surely  forming  themselves  in-  side  his  skull.  He  said,  &quot;I  want  to  be  sure  you  understand  that  you  won't  see  me  very  often.&quot;  ''That's  insulting,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Did  you  sup-  pose  I  thought  4368696e61  was  across  the  street?&quot;  &quot;It's  just  that  you  mustn't  expect  me  to  solve  your  problems,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  already  have  eight  hundred  million  failures  at  home,  and  the  last  thing  I  need  is  another  one  over  here.&quot;  I  asked  what  made  him  think  I  had  problems.  He  said,  &quot;You  do  not  know  how  to  follow  Right  Rule  Number  Three:  Relax.  But  don't  expect  me  to  help  you.  Expect  nothing.&quot;  I  wanted  to  ask  how  I  was  sup-  posed  to  relax  with  a  world  figure  in  my  bed,  but  I  was  afraid  he  would  accuse  me  of  personality  cultism.  When  he  left,  he  said,  &quot;Don't  worry.&quot;  THOUGHT  about  his  words.  They  had  not  been  completely  satisfying,  and  an  hour  after  he  had  left  I  wanted  to  hear  them  again.  I  needed  more  answers.  Would  he  like  me  better  if  I  had  been  through  some-  thing-a  divorce,  a  Long  March,  an  evening  at  Le  Club?  Why  should  I  exhaust  myself  in  relaxation  with  some-  one  who  was  certain  to  leave?  Every  night  after  work  I  studied  the  Little  Red  Book  and  wrote  down  phrases  from  it  for  further  thought:  &quot;wom-  en  ...  certain  contradictions  ...  down  on  their  knees  .  ..  monsters  of  all  kinds  ..  .  direct  experience.&quot;  My  life  began  to  feel  crowded  with  potential  meaning.  One  afternoon  I  was  sitting  inthe  park,  watching  a  group  of  schoolchildren  eat  their  lunch.  Two  men  in  stained  gray  clothing  lay  on  the  grass.  Once  in  a  while  they  moved  discontentedly  from  a  sunny  spot  to  a  shady  spot,  or  back  again.  The  children  ran  around  and  screamed.  When  they  left,  one  of  the  men  went  over  to  the  wire  wastebasket  and  rifled  the  children's  lunch  bags  for  leftovers.  Then  he  baited  the  other  man  in  a  loud  voice.  He  kept  saying,  &quot;You  are  not  going  downtown,  Tommy.  We  are  going  downtown.  We  are  going  down-  town.&quot;  Was  this  the  &quot;social  order&quot;  that  the  Chairman  had  mentioned?  It  seemed  unpleasant.  I  wondered  if  I  should  continue  to  hold  out  for  something  better.  AS  it  happened,  I  saw  him  more  often  thanhe  had  led  me  to  ex-  pect.  Between  visits,  there  were  let-  ters-his  accompanied  by  erotic  max-  ims.  These  are  at  present  in  the  Yale  University  Library,  where  they  will  remain  in  a  sealed  container  until  all  the  people  who  are  alive  now  are  dead.  A  few  small  examples  will  suggest  their  nature:  My  broom  sweeps  your  dust  kittens.  Love  manifests  itself  in  the  hop  from  floor  to  pallet.  If  you  want  to  know  the  texture  of  a  flank,  someone  must  roll  over.  E  always  met  alone,  and  after  several  years  dim  sum  at  my  place  began  to  seem  a  bit  hole-in-  corner.  &quot;Why  don't  you  ever  intro-  duce  me  to  your  friends?&quot;  I  asked.  The  Chairman  made  no  reply,  and  I  feared  I  had  pushed  too  hard.  We  had  no  claims  on  each  other,  after  all,  no  rules  but  the  ones  he  sprang  on  me  now  and  then.  Suddenly  he  nodded  with  vigor  and  said,  &quot;Yes,  yes.&quot;  On  his  next  trip  he  took  me  out  to  dinner  with  his  friend  Red  Buttons.  Years  later,  the  Chairman  would  oftensay  to  me,  &quot;Remember  that  crazy  time  we  had  dinner  with  Red?  In  a  restaurant?  What  an  evening!&quot;  Each  time  we  met,  I  was  startled  by  some  facet  of  his  character  that  the  Western  press  had  failedto  report.  I  saw,  for  instance,  that  he  disliked  au-  thority,  for  he  joked  bitterly  about  his  own.  No  sooner  had  he  stepped  inside  my  bedroom  thanhe  would  order,  &quot;Lights  off!&quot;  When  it  was  time  for  him  to  go,  he  would  raise  one  arm  from  the  bed  as  if  hailing  a  taxi  and  cry,  &quot;Pants!&quot;  Once  when  I  lifted  his  pants  off  the  back  of  a  chair  and  all  the  change  fell  out  of  the  pockets,  I  said,  &quot;This  happens  a  lot.  I  have  a  drawer  full  of  your  money  that  I've  found  on  the  floor.&quot;  &quot;Keep  it,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;and  when  it  adds  up  to  eighteen  billion  yuan,  buy  me  a  seat  on  the  New  York  Stock  Exchange.&quot;  He  laughed  loud-  ly,  and  then  did  his  impersonation  of  a  capitalist.  &quot;Bucks!&quot;  he  shouted.  &quot;Gimme!&quot;  We  both  collapsed  on  the  bed,  weak  with  giggles  at  this  private  joke.  He  was  the  only  man  I  ever  knew,  this  pedagogue  in  pajamas,  who  did  not  want  power  over  me.  In  conver-  sation,  he  was  always  testing  my  inde-  pendence  of  thought.  Once,  I  remem-  ber,  he  observed,  &quot;Marxism  has  tend-  " b"ed  to  flourish  in  Catholic  countries.&quot;  &quot;&quot;What  about  4368696e61?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Is  4368696e61  your  idea  of  a  Catholic  country?&quot;  &quot;No,  but,  um-&quot;  &quot;See  what  I  mean?&quot;  he  said,  laugh-  ing.  I  had  learned  my  lesson.  To  divest  himself  of  sexual  power  over  me,  he  encouraged  me  to  go  dancing  with  other  men  while  he  was  away.  Then  we  held  regular  critiques  of  the  boyfriends  I  had  acquired.  My  favorite,  a  good-looking  Tex-Mex  poet  named  Dan  Juan,  provided  us  with  rich  material  for  instruction  and  drill.  &quot;What  is  it  you  like  about  Dan  Juan?&quot;  the  Chairman  asked  me  once.  &quot;I'd  really  have  to  think  about  it,&quot;  I  said.  \xc2\xab&quot;Maybe  he's  not  so  interesting,&quot;  said  the  Chairman.  &quot;I  see  your  point,&quot;  I  said.  Then,  with  the  rebelliousness  of  the  politically  indolent,  I  burst  into  tears.  The  Chairman  took  my  hand  and  brooded  about  my  situation.  I  think  he  was  afraid  that  helping  me  to  en-  ter  into  ordinary  life-to  go  out  with  Dan  Juan  and  then  to  learn  why  I  should  not  be  going  out  with  him  and  so  forth-might  not  be  very  much  help  at  all.  Finally,  he  said,  &quot;I  don't  like  to  think  you're  alone  when  I'm  not  here.&quot;  &quot;I'm  not  always  alone.&quot;  &quot;I'd  like  to  give  you  a  radio.&quot;  HE  radio  never  reached  me,  al-  though  I  do  not  doubt  that  he  sent  it.  His  only  other  gifts  we  con-  sumed  together:  the  bottles  of  rice  wine,  which  we  drank,  talking,  know-  ing  that  while  this  was  an  individual  solution,  it  was  simple  to  be  happy.  Now  other  women  have  pointed  out  to  me  that  I  have  nothing  to  show  forthe  relationship.  Adenauer  gave  Fran  a  Salton  Hotray.  Stalin  gave  Harriet  a set  of  swizzlesticks  with  little  hammer-  and-sickles  on  the  tops.  William  Dean  Howells  gave  my  Great-Aunt  Jackie  a  diamond  brooch  in  the  form  of  five  ribbon  loops  terminating  in  diamond-  set  tassels,  and  an  aquamarine-and-  diamond  tiara  with  scroll  and  quill-pen  motifs  separated  by  single  oblong-cut  stones  mounted  onan  aquamarine-and-  diamond  band.  That  I  have  no  such  mementos  means,  they  say,  that  the  Chairman  did  not  love  me.  I  think  they  are  being  too  negative,  possibly.  HE  Chairman  believed  that  the  most  revolutionary  word  is  &quot;yes.&quot;  What  he  liked  best  was  for  me  to  kiss  him  while  murmuring  all  the  English  synonyms  for  &quot;yes&quot;  that  I  could  think  of,.  And  although  neither  of  us  be-  lieved  in  a  life  beyond  this  one,  I  feel  to  this  day  that  I  can  check  in  with  him  if  I  close  my  eyes  and  say  yes,  yeah,  aye,  uh-huh,  indeed,  agreed,  natch,  certainly,  okeydoke,  of  course,  right,  reet,  for  sure,  you  got  it,  well  and  good,  amen,  but  def,  indubitably,  right  on,yes  sirree  bob,  sure  nuff,  positive-  ly,  now  you're  talking,  yep,  yup,  bet  your  sweet  A,  O.K.,  Roger  wilco  over  and  out.  "