 b"MIKE  took  his  vacation  upstate  in  May,  right  after  the  mud  season.  It  was  a  small  change,  but  it  counted  to  him.  For  the  last  five  years,  he'd  lived  on  schedule-two  years  behind  a  desk  in  [REDACTED]  Myer,  then  three  in  New  York  City,  working  in  the  distribution  department  of  a  film  company.  Every  August  he  went  to  his  grandparents'  house  near  Hoosick  Falls  and  returned  to  work  the  Tuesday  after  Labor  Day.  &quot;Business,&quot;  he  would  sing  on  his  way  to  work,  &quot;business  ain't  nothin'  but  the  blues.&quot;  This  vacation,  Mike  brought  his  gui-  tar,  and  he  intended  to  rearrange  some  of  his  old  songs.  He  was  trying  to  put  an  act  together  and  was  planning  a  first  album.  During  college,  he  had  per-  formed  in  some  clubs  in  [REDACTED].  Just  before  he  was  drafted,  he  had  been  try-  ing  to  get  work  singing  in  the  Village.  It  was  now  so  long  since  he'd  per-  formed  in  public  or  finished  a  song  to  his  satisfaction  that  he  didn't  tell  people  he  was  a  singer  and  songwriter.  People  in  New  York  knew  him  as  amiable  enough,  content  to  float  or  rise  with  no  more  volition  than  a  helium  balloon.  He'd  spent  every  summer  of  his  childhood  inhis  grandparents'  house, and  the  happiest  Christmas  and  Thanksgiving  holidays.  From  the  time  he  was  five,  he  had  taken  the  bus  by  himself  to  Bennington.  His  grandfa-  ther,  [REDACTED],  would  meet  him  there  and  drive  him  back  to  the  house,  which  al-  ways  looked  the  same  to  Mike.  In  the  past  year,  [REDACTED]  and  Mary  had  become  ill.  She  died  in  August  and  [REDACTED]  in  February.  Mike  visited  them  both  in  the  hospital  in  Troy,  but  he  missed  [REDACTED]  at  the  end.  He  wanted  to  be  there,  but  no  one  called  him  until  it  was  too  late.  He  was  only  in  New  York  City,  he  told  [REDACTED]'s  lawyer  after  the  funeral.  Mike  wanted  to  emphasize  both  that  it  was  only  four  hours  away  and  he  could  have  been  there  and  that  it  was  too  late  now  and  all  could  be  forgiven.  The  lawyer  replied  that  it  was  none  of  his  affair  where  Mike  had  been.  His  grandparents  left  him  the  house  and  land,  and  every  last  one  of  their  possessions,  including  [REDACTED]'s  collection.  They  hadn't  told  him  they  would  do  that,  and  Mike  wondered  if  he  would  have  said  yes  or  no  if  they'd  asked.  A  real-estate  broker  came  by  the  first  day  Mike  was  there  and  urged  him  to  sell  while  the  market  was  good.  Each  time  Mike  drove  into  town,  he  slowed  down  to  glance  over  at  the  cemetery.  He  didn't  adorn  their  graves  with  bunches  of  flowers  or  potted  plants.  He  didn't  set  a  plastic  wreath  against  their  stone.  He  went  once  to  see  that  the  stone  was  all  right,  but  he  didn't  stay  long.  His  parents  were  retired  in  [REDACTED].  They  wrote  Mike  a  letter  telling  him  to  be  careful  around  real-estate  people.  They  asked  him  to  ship  them  his  grand-  mother's  rocker.  His  father  added  the  postscript:  Real  estate  is  a  steady  invest-  ment  but  it  has  its  costs.  Mike  meant  to  write  a  song  from  his  father's  advice,  but  he  hadn't  gotten  around  to  it  yet.  He  doubted  anyway  that  he  could  cram  it  all  into  one  song.  HE  house  was  chilled  and  a  little  damp;  the  furnace  had  been  shut  off  for  weeks  and  it  would  be  summer  before  the  house  was  dry.  When  Mike  first  walked  in,  he  put  down  his  guitar  and  suitcase  and,  out  of  habit,  went  straight  to  the  kitchen.  The  room  was  clean,  and  when  Mike  checked  the  re-  frigerator  he  saw  that  it  was  empty.  Someone  had  thrown  away  all  the  half-finished  jars  of  jam,  chutney,  and  pickles  Mary  used  to  take  out  for  lunches  at  the  bleached  wood  table.  He  noticed  a  photograph,  tacked  up  on  the  wall  by  the  stove  so  long  before  that  its  edges  curled  over  the  thumbtacks.  He  took  it  down  and  looked  at  the  back.  In  his  grandmother's  handwriting:  Mike  as  a  Cowboy,  and  the  date,  an  August  day  twenty  years  before.  In  the  photo  he  stood,  one  hand  steadying  his  two-wheeler,  streamers  hang-  ing  from  the  handlebars.  He  wore  a  cowboy  vest  over  his  plain  shirt  and  jeans,  and  a  toy  gunbelt  hung  from  one  hip.  He  was  squinting  into  the  camera,  starting  to  form  the  lines  now  definite  around  his  eyes.  Be-  hind  him  there  was  a  white  picket  fence  and,  propped  against  the  fence,the  skull  of  a  cow.  Mike  had  a  memory  of  [REDACTED]  calling  out  to  him,  &quot;Hold  it  right  there,&quot;  and  of  Mary  tacking  up  the  picture,  but  he  felt  no  connectionwith  that  serious  boy,  holding  so  stiffly  to  the  handlebars.  The  first  night,  he  went  around  to  the  back  of  the  house  where  his  grandfather  kept  his  tools.  He  found  a  ham-  mer  and  some  nails.  The  tool-  room  looked  and  smelled  as  if  cats  had  been  in  it,  and  the  tools  were  scattered  with  terra-  cotta  pots  on  the  floor.  The  " b"light  was  out  in  the  toolroom,  so  Mike  straightened  up  by  moonlight.  He  stepped  outside  and  listened  to  the  spring  night.  There  were  some  sounds  missing.  The  chickens  were  gone.  Mike  couldn't  remember  if  [REDACTED]  had  given  them  away  or  sold  them,  or  if  he'd  mentioned  them  at  all.  People  in  the  city  forget  how  noisy  the  country  is,  he  thought.  The  storm  windows  were  still  up  in  the  house,  and  if  he  left  the  door  open  for  the  night  air  mosquitoes  would  con-  sume  him.  He  took  the  hammer  and  the  nails  he'd  found  back  into  the  house.  He  drove  two  nails  into  the  par-  lor  wall,  side  by  side,  and  hung  his  guitar  by  its  embroidered  strap.  He  stepped  back  to  see  how  it  looked  on  the  wall.  Here  was  the  house  he  now  owned,  there  was  his  guitar  on  thewall,  and  no  one  to  ask  if  it  was  all  right  to  have  put  it  there.  He  felt  a  small  guilt  at  his  act,  but  in  the  morning  it  reas-  sured  him  to  see  the  guitar.  In  Mary's  time,  the  downstairs  had  been  kept  dark.  Every  spring,  she  ap-  plied  a  fresh  coat  of  varnish  to  the  floors  of  the  parlor  and  the  dining  room,  and  to  the  woodwork  in  each  of  those  rooms.  In  the  middle  of  the  dining  room  was  a  round  oak  table,  at  which  Mike  sat  the  second  morning  he  was  there.  He  tried  to  compose  a  post-  card  to  a  woman  he'd  been  seeing  in  the  city.  He'd  met  her  three  weeks  be-  fore  at  a  party  on  a  Circle  Line  boat  trip  around  [REDACTED].  The  gaietyof  their  meeting  hadn't  been  matched  since,  and  when  he  tried  to  write  that  it  was  great  here  and  would  she  like  to  come  for  a  weekend-&quot;T'll  pick  you  up  at  the  bus&quot;-it  didn't  sound  right.  He  couldn't  imagine  being  with  her  for  Friday  night,  Saturday,  Saturday  night,  and  Sunday.  They  dated  in  urban  par-  cels  of  time,  and  over  the  long  stretch  of  a  weekend  they  might  have  nothing  to  say.  He  put  his  attempts  at  postcards  in  the  middle  ofthe  table  and  left  them  there.  He  recalled  a  terrarium  his  grandmother  had  made,  and  he  went  into  the  parlor,  found  it,  and  set  the  terrarium  on  top  of  the  postcards.  The  terrarium  contained  several  specimens  of  cactus,  set  in  sand.  Mary  kept  the  top  sealed  with  a  piece  of  domed  glass  that  magnified  the  green  and  silvery  plants.  When  the  dome  caught  what  little  light  entered  the  dining  room,  the  ter-  rarium  glowed  and  Mike  thought  that  dawn  in  thedesert  must  look  like  that.  In  the  next  few  days,  Mike  went  through  old  letters  his  grandmother  had  saved  and  he  threw  away  many  of  them.  Others  he  didn't  know  what  to  do  with:  those  congratulating  Mary  on  a  birthday  or  anniversary,  those  con-  doling  with  her  forthe  death  of  her  eldest  son,  killed  in  the  Second  World  War,  and  for  the  loss  of  her  father,  mother,  and  two  sisters,  killed  in  acar  accident  in  [REDACTED]  one  winter.  There     was  a  picture  of  the  son  on  top  of  the  piano,  where  it  always  had  been.  Mary  and  [REDACTED]  had  stood  by  Mike  when  he  decided  to  try  for  noncombatant  status  in  the  Army.  He  didn't  believe  they  had  respected  him  for  it  or  had  even  listened  very  carefully  as  he  explained  that  the  war  in  [REDACTED]  was  a  different  kind  of  war  and  required  a  different  re-  sponse,  They  stood  by  him  because  it  was  the  right  thing  for  them  to  do,  and  he  had  accepted  that  as  good  enough.  He  stopped  talking  about  the  war.  It  didn't  seem  right  to  Mike  to  throw  away  the  letters  Mary  had  saved,  but  he  didn't  want  them.  He  imagined  sending  them  to  his  mother.  It  was  her  dead  brother,  her  aunts  and  grandpar-  ents,  but  he  didn'tkid  himself  that  she  would  appreciate  his  gesture  or  that  he  would  ever  hear  the  end  of  it,  He  wouldn't  have  the  energy  in  a  million  years  to  put  together  a  package  of  the  letters,  much  less  take  the  package  to  Hoosick  Falls  and  mail  it.  So  he  made  a  bundle  with  the  same  string  Mary  had  used  and  heput  the  letters  back  in  the  desk  in  the  parlor.  VERY  morning,  Mike  mowed  the  lawn,  extending  it  another  foot  or  so  into  the  fields  that  surrounded  the  house.  In  the  evenings,  he  sat  on  the  porch  and  played  his  guitar  and  thought  about  the  house.  He  thought  that  if  he  kept  the  place  he  would  sand  the  floors " b"of  all  those  layers  of  varnish.  He  would  strip  the  woodwork  and  wax  it  with  paste  wax.  He  would  steam  off  the  wallpaper  and  paint  the  plaster  behind  it.  But  when  morning  came  again  Mike  changed  his  mind.  He  was  used  to  the  old  patterns  on  the  wallpaper.  He  remembered  how  cool  the  dark  floors  kept  the  parlor  in  summer  and  how  formal  at  Christmas.  Having  gone  through  Mary's  let-  ters,  he  turned  to  [REDACTED]'s  collection.  When  Mike  was  a  boy,  there  were  several  small  rooms  upstairs.  In  re-  cent  years,  [REDACTED]  had  decided  to  make  a  public  museum  of  his  collection.  He  wrote  a  letter  to  Mike's  father  saying  that  the  location  was  perfect,  smack  between  the  horse-racing  museum  in  Saratoga  and  the  art  museum  in  Williamstown.  He'd  knocked  down  most  ofthe  walls  upstairs,  leaving  one  room  for  Mike  when  he  visited.  In  the  middle  of  the  large  space,  he  set  a  table  that  ran  the  length  of  the  room,  and  there  he  laid  out  the  shoeboxes  and  display  cases  that  contained  his  collec-  tion,  which  included  the  planes  and  trains  he'd  carved  while  recovering  from  a  wound  received  at  the  end  of  the  First  World  War.  Each  model  was  labelled:  Carved  by  D.  C.  Welch  while  confined  to  hospital  [REDACTED]  New  Y  ork.  There  were  also  pearl  buttons  and  to-  bacco  tins,  harmonicas  and  kazoos,  stuffed  birds,  can  openers,  nineteenth-  century  safety  pins  and  toothbrushes,  arrowheads,  crushed  bullets,  a  jar  of  pencil  ends,  glass  from  an  early  Coke  bottle,  and  a  piece  of  a  Greek  temple.  During  Mike's  childhood  summers,  [REDACTED]  took  him  to  the  battlegrounds  near  Schuylerville  and  Bennington  to  dig  for  relics  of  the  Revolution.  They  found  one  belt  buckle  andwanted  to  find  a  smashed  human  bone  but  never  did.  Now  everything  in  the  collection  had  a  number  painted  on  it  in  white.  The  number  corresponded  to  an  entry  in  the  large  ledger  that  sat  on  the  desk  at  the  doorway  of  the  room.  The  first  page  read:  Miniature  Museum.  If  he  were  to  keep  the  house,  Mike  thought,  he  could  just  write  off  the  up-  stairs.  He  couldn't  dispose  of  the  collec-  tion  and  certainly  couldn't  move  it.  His  father  had  always  laughed  at  [REDACTED]'s  collection-laughs  that  ended  in  a  bit-  ter  snort,  as  if  [REDACTED]  were  taking  some-  thing  away  from  him  by  collecting  all  those  little  things.  His  third  year  in  col-  lege,  Mike  had  written  one  song  about  the  museum  and  another  about  the  ex-  peditions  to  the  battlegrounds.  If  he  ever  made  an  album,  he'd  like  a  picture  of  the  museum  room  on  the  record  jacket.  For  the  present,  his  problem  was  that  everything  in  the  museum  was  dusty and  fragile.  He  cleared  away  the  dust  on  top  of  the  closed  boxes  with  a  feath-  er  duster,  but  when  he  tried  to  brush  off  some  nineteenth-century  beadwork,  the  piece  popped  in  his  hand,  and  the  crystal  beads  spelling  &quot;Roses&quot;  sprayed  all  over  the  floor.  He  also  ruined  one  model  plane.  The  old  balsa  was  so  brit-  tle  he  had  barely  touched  it  when  half  a  wing  fell  off.  He  did  all  right  with  pieces  of  famous  rocks-43616e616461Rush-  more  and  the  Blarney  Stone-  but  he  lost  the  skin  of  a  piece  of  birch  bark  from  Robert  Frost's  woods  over  in  [REDACTED]  Shaftsbury.  If  he  kept  the  house,  he  thought,  he  would  have  to  do  something  about  the  collection.  If  he  kept  the  house  and  moved  into  it-if  he  gave  up  his  job  in  New  York  and  tried  to  live  off  savings  and  odd  work-he  could  dust  it  every  day.  Perhaps  he  would  get  some  songs  written  if  he  lived  in  the  house.  I  IIS  grandfather's  friend  Arvid  Karlssen  came  by  one  evening  after  work.  He  came  at  around  the  same  time  [REDACTED]  used  to  drive  in  from  Eagle  Bridge  Machine  &amp;  Tool,  and  Arvid's  Chevy  looked  a  little  like  the  one  [REDACTED]  used  to  drive.  But  Arvid  looked  nothing  like  Mike's  beanpole  grandfather.  Dark  and  squat,  Arvid  walked  like  an  athlete  or  a  sailor,  like  someone  testing  the  ground.  Mike  of-  fered  him  a  beer,  and  Arvid  accepted.  He  settled  himself  on  the  porch  step.  Mike  remembered  long  evenings  in  the  summer  when  he  and  Arvid  and  [REDACTED]  watched  the  sun  go  down,  and  the  men  talked  about  their  lives  and  the  factory.  It  seemed  to  Mike  that  those  evenings  were  the  real  point  of  the  day,  the  rest  only  a  buildup  to  that  time.  &quot;All  of  [REDACTED]'s  chickens  are  dead,&quot;  Arvid  said.  &quot;The  damn  water  froze.  That  boy  who  was  supposed  to  come-  Dan  Brown,  you  know  him?&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  said  Mike.  &quot;I  think  I  do.&quot;  &quot;Not  worth  so  much.  Came  every  other  day.  Said  it  was  enough  for  the  chickens,  but  it  wasn't  when  it's  freez-  ing-water  time.  Then  something  got  to  them.  A  dog,  maybe.  It  was  a  ter-  " b"rible  mess.  Feathers  all  over.&quot;  &quot;Did  Dan  clean  up  the  place?&quot;  Mike  asked.  &quot;Or  did  you  get  stuck  with  the  job?&quot;  &quot;All  the  chickens  dead.  What  would  he  clean  up  for?  He'd  done  his  job.&quot;  &quot;Well.  Thank  you  for  taking  care  of  that,  Arvid.  I'm  sorry  I  wasn't  here  to  do  it  my-  self.  But  done  is  done,  I  guess.  I  wouldn't  have  known  what  to  do  with  the  chickens  in  the  city  anyway.  I  only  have  two  rooms  there.&quot;  Mike  expected  him  to  smile  or  say,  &quot;You  are  ajoker,&quot;  as  he  used  to,  but  Arvid  only  said,  &quot;That's  twenty  chickens  dead.&quot;  He  couldn't  seem  to  get  over  it,  and  when  Mike  steered  the  con-  versation  to  Mary,  to  [REDACTED],  even  to  their  funerals,  Arvid  did  no  more  thannod.  Mike  wondered  if  Arvid  blamed  him  for  the  chickens  or  if  he  was  really  upset  about  [REDACTED]  and  could  only  talk  about  the  chickens.  &quot;Would  you  like  something  from  the  collection?&quot;  Mike  offered.  &quot;Would  you  like  one  of  the  model  planes  or  an  arrowhead?&quot;  It  seemed  a  fair  offer  forthe  caretaking  Arvid  had  done-  the  kitchen,  the  chickens-but  he  said,  &quot;No.  Wouldn't  want  to  break  up  the  collection.  Wouldn't  be  right.&quot;  &quot;I'm  not  sure  what  to  do  with  the  collection,&quot;  Mike  said,  &quot;to  tell  the  truth.&quot;  When  Arvid  didn't  speak,  he  assumed  interest  and  went  on.  &quot;I  can't  throw  it  away,  but  if  I  keep  it  where  it  is  in  the  house  there  isn't  very  much  room  left.  If  I  wanted  friends  or  something.  And  if  I  sell  the  house,  what  do  I  do  with  the  collection?  I  feel  like  keeping  the  house  to  keep  the  col-  lection.  Maybe  I  should.  They  left  it  to  me  free  and  clear.&quot;  It  was  the  most  he'd  spoken  in  ten  days,  and  when  there  was  no  immediate  reply  from  Arvid  he  sat  back  in  the  rocker  and  squinted  into  the  sunset  in  imitation  of  the  older  man.  Still,  no  re-  ply  came  and  no  words  of  advice  or  offers  of  help.  When  a  long  time  had  passed,  Arvid  said  &quot;Well&quot;  several  times,  announced  he  was  on  his  way, and  stood  up.  The  closest  Mike  came  to  getting  what  he  wanted  was  when  Arvid  turned  and  waved  before  he  started  his  car.  Mike  waited  for  a  homi-  ly  or  a  warning,  but  Arvid  only  said  he'd  see  him  around,  started  the  Chevy,  and  drove  off.  Mike  went  upstairs  to  look  at  the  collection,  wondering  if  he'd  feel  mean  for  describing  it  to  Arvid  as  a  problem.  He  thought  that  the  downstairs  would  look  better  with  Navajo  White  walls,  that  this  room,  cleared,  would  be  a  per-  fect  studio,  with  views  to  the  east  and  the  south.  If  he  lived  in  that  house,  he  would  have  less  money  and  more  time.  In  the  city,  his  ambition  stalked  him,  but  perhaps  here  it  would  give  some-  thing  back  to  him.  He  liked  being  alone  in  the  house.  His  thoughts  came  to  him  in  short  phrases  that  could  be  sung  if  the  right  tune  accompanied  them.  He  wanted  to  write  a  song  about  Mary  and  [REDACTED]  married  for  fifty  years,  and  his  parents  for  thirty,  and  he  couldn't  imagine  a  weekend  with  a  girl;  about  sitting  on  the  porch  waiting  to  hear  them  in  the  house  though  they  were  dead,  and  knowing  any  sound  would  be  only  the  wind  ora  moth  batting  against  a  screen;  about  the  terrarium  holding  the  light  ofday,  and  him  alone  there  at  the  round  table.  In  New  York,  for  every  one  person  who  wanted  to  write  songs  there  were  ten  who  would  kill  for  it.  If  Arvid  was  so  worried  about  the  chickens,  he  should  have  watered  them  himself.  He  had  liked  Arvid  when  he  was  a  child.  But  the  best  part,  he  re-  membered,  was  when  Arvid  left  and  [REDACTED]  explained  to  Mike  what  he'd  said  that  was  interesting,  what  he  meant  when  he  spoke  about  the  other  men  at  the  factory.  Now  that  he  looked  at  it,  the  whole  memory  was  not  so  pleasant,  but,  Mike  thought,  one  half  couldn't  exist  without  the  other.  HE  second-to-last  day  of  Mike's  vacation  promised  to  be  a  collec-  tor's  item-a  July  day  in  May.  Mike  decided  to  do  something.  He  could  hold  off  selling  the  house;  he  could  hold  off  changing  the  house.  But  in  the  last  twelve  days  he'd  been  looking  at  a  small  shed  his  grandfather  called  the  pig  shed.  [REDACTED]  had  put  it  together  in  a  day  or  two  one  summer.  The  shed  creaked  in  the  wind  and  drooped  under  the  snow,.  The  roof  had  collapsed  on  one  side  and  the  window  was  long  " b"broken.  The  door  tilted  out  of  jamb.  Mike  had  proposed  to  [REDACTED]  two  years  before  that  they  take  it  down.  It  would  open  up  the  view,  he'd  said,  and  it  would  be  a  pleasure  not  to  look  at  it.  It  wasn't  watertight  and  [REDACTED]  kept  nothing  in  it;  why  not  take  it  down?  But  [REDACTED]  hadn't  wanted  to.  He'd  stalled  from  day  to  day,  and  Mike  had  to  return  to  the  city  before  they  got  a  chance  to  work  on  it.  Taking  down  the  shed  was  the  one  thing  Mike  was  sure  he  wanted  to  do,so  he  got  up  from  his  rocker  and  approached  the  shed  for  a  closer  look.  The  shed  was  built  from  scrap  wood,  full  of  knotholes  and  nail  holes  from  former  use,  bleached  from  exposure  to  the  weather.  Half  the  siding  was  split  and  was  parting  from  the  supports.  Mike  stuck  his  head  through  the  empty  window  frame  to  see  if  anything  was  inside.  Mike  withdrew  from  the  build-  ing  and  went  to  the  toolroom.  He  took  out  a  ladder  and  brought  it  to  the  shed.  Then  hereturned  to  the  toolroom  for  a  hammer  and  crowbar.  Mike  set  up  the  ladder  against  the  sturdiest-looking  wall,  and  climbed  the  ladder.  He  intended  to  take  off  the  roofing  and  siding  first.  He  started  on  the  roof  with  the  crowbar,  but  he  had  given  [REDACTED]  too  much  credit.  The  shed,  more  interconnected  and  fragile  than  Mike  could  have  seen,  came  apart  at  the  first  touch  ofthe  crowbar.  The  cross-  beam  collapsed,  and  with  its  loss  the  walls,  the  roof,  and  the  rest  of  the  sup-  ports  gave  way.  Mike  and  the  ladder  fell  forward  into  the  pile  of  wood.  &quot;I'm  all  right,&quot;  Mike  said.  &quot;I'm  all  right.&quot;  With  his  free  arm,  he  pushed  some  of  the  wood  off  his  legs.  The  shed  should  have  been  in  the  museum,  he  thought.  He  pulled  himself  out  of  the  wreckage  and,  a  few  feet  away,  he  sat  up  and  felt  himself  slowly  all  over.  He  tried  moving  his  arms  and  legs.  Every-  thing  worked  but  his  left  ankle.  He  couldn't  feel  any  wetness  or  warmth  from  blood  in  his  high  work  boots.  The  ankle  wasn't  broken,  since  he  could  move  it  from  side  to  side.  Mike  looked  around  at  the  house  he  owned  and  the  lawn  he'd  mown  so  carefully.  They  were  peaceful  and  in-  different  to  him.  [REDACTED]  wasn't  there  to  tell  him  what  had  gone  wrong.  Mary  wasn't  there  to  help  him  to  the  house,  to  take  off  his  boot,  and  to  bring  him  bowls  of  water  to  soak  his  ankle  in.  He  couldn't  take  things  apart.  He  couldn't  put  them  together.  He  moved  his  foot  again  to  test  theinjury,  and  in  the  pain  his  ankle  gave  him  Mike  looked  for  something  definite.  He  wished  for  something  to  build  on. "