 b"I  KNOW  the  morning  is  not  over,  from  the  way  the  light  quavers  on  the  face  of  the  yellow  brick  apart-  ment  building  across  the  street  and  flows  along  the  slack  telephone  wires  above  the  far  sidewalk.  Sectionsof  shadow,  where  thewires,  as  they  swing,  appear  to  cross,  race  back  and  forth  be-  tween  the  poles,  never  touching  them.  The  sections  change  shape,  as  the  day-  light  changes.  At  breakfast  they  were  long  and  liquid.  Now  they  are  drier,  shorter,  and  they  hurry.  I  have  asked  whether  they  are  messages,  and  have  been  told  that  they  are  not.  They  are  nothing.  So  they  make  no  sounds.  I  know  the  sounds  they  do  not  make.  Early  in  the  morning,  a  violin  bow  on  a  saw.  Then  the  sounds  of  the  breath  of  an  animal  running.  While  I  watch,  there  are  words  passing  through  those  wires,  They  are  the  messages.  They  can  only  be  heard  by  the  people  they  are  going  to  and  know  nothing  of  the  racing  shadows  they  pass  through.  Neither  the  mouths  that  are  speaking  nor  the  ears  that  are  listening  are  aware  of  those  shadows.  This  is  the  view  from  the  dining  room.  Most  times  of  day  it  is  a  little  dark  in  here,  as  though  one  had  just  come  in  from  outside,  because  the  shades  are  drawn  on  the  upper  halves  of  the  windows,  and  the  gauzy  cur-  tains  film  over  the  rest.  It  is  lighter  in  the  bay  window,  over  the  street,  than  in  the  depths  of  the  room,  but  I  have  been  told  not  to  go  too  near  the  win-  dows  and  be  seen  looking  out.  The  dark  oval  table  holds  a  reflection  of  window,  a  sleeve  of  a  cloud.  Once  I  walked  under  the  table,  and  long  afterward  I  was  told  of  having  done  it:  a  thing  too  dangerous  to  repeat.  I  was  told  I  might  have  fallen  over  the  gate-  leg  and  brought  the  table  leaf  down  on  my  head.  Up  the  street,  to  the  right,  it  is  earlier.  Where  the  sidewalk  opposite  passes  a  courtyard  between  garages  with  gates  made  of  green-painted  boards  topped  with  broken  barbed  wire,  which  have  stood  open  for  so  long  that  now  they  will  not  close,  and  black  dust  dances  tirelessly  on  the  cement  inside,  itis  the  hour  of  coming  home  with  the  morning's  shopping,  pushing  carriages,  stopping  to  talk-one  carriage  facing  one  way  and  one  the  other.  Past  the  corner  with  the  butcher  shop,  out  of  sight  of  the  dining  room  and  intothe  next  block,  which  is  set  back  (for  the  street  is  wider  there)  several  paces  to  the  west,  more  of  the  morning  is  left.  The  children  have  been  swallowed  up  in  school:  it  has  just  happened,  and  a  hush  has  filled  the  streets.  The  air  is  cool.  There  is  still  some  blue  in  all  the  colors.  The  whole  day  lies  ahead,  with  time  enough  for  anything.  A  great  space  on  all  sides.  It  is  the  hour  when  aunts  on  visits  take  their  walks.  People  are  buying  morning  papers  at  the  tiny  store  in  the  middle  of  the  block,  and  have  not  yet  started  buying  candy.  And  in  the  block  beyond,  where  the  street  narrows  again,  breakfast  is  being  eaten  in  the  shingled  houses,  brick  houses,  stuccoed  houses,  upstairs  as  well  as  downstairs.  That  is  the  block  on  which  something  is  always  about  to  appear,  like  a  streetcar  arriving  around  the  far  corner.  But  that  far  corner  is  not  the  begin-  ning.  The  street  continues  straight  on,  rising  out  of  itself,  becoming  visible-I  have  seen  it  happen.  There  are  blocks  that  I  forget  each  time  until  I  see  them  again.  They  lie  in  the  hours  before  the  day  has  been  claimed,  as  though  they  were  not  moving.  And  past  them,  in  the  twilight  before  dawn,  at  the  edge  of  the  darkness  in  which  sirens  wailed  and  the  monastery  burned  into  black  silence,  there  is  the  big  stone  building  like  a  barn  or  boathouse,  on  the  eastern  side  of  the  street,  a  building  that  I  saw  only  once,  and  I  wonder  whether  it  is  still  there.  In  that  block  the  street  runs  close  to  the  edge  of  the  cliff,  and  behind  the  building  I  saw  the  seaport  spread  out  far  below  in  the  first  colorless  hazy  light,  and  the  breathless  polished  river  beyond  the  docks,  The  streets  were  empty  and  wet     with  dew-I  could  smell  it.  The  huge  doors  of  the  building,  giving  onto  the  street,  were  wide  open.  Barn  doors,  firehouse  doors:  they  had  been  folded  back  to  expose  a  room  bigger  than  a  garage,  almost  as  big  as  a  church.  I  could  see  that  it  was  not  ordinarily  disclosed  to  the  gaze  of  passersby,  and  that  no  one  was  expected  in  the  street  at  that  hour.  The  big  room  was  darker  than  the  sky  outside;  it  was  lit  only  by  a  few  candles  on  tall  silver-  wrapped  candlesticks,  Near  the  doors  there  was  a  wagon  with  a  bier  on  it.  The  body  was  draped  in  stiff  white  and  gold  ecclesiastical  vestments,  with  a  gold  mitre  on  its  head,  and  a  long  gold  staff  in  its  hands.  The  feet  were  toward  the  open  doors.  Over  the  body  two  young  men  in  white  brocaded  vestments,  wearing  gold  birettas,  were  bending,  one  on  each  side,  holding  candlesticks  and  arranging  folds  of  the  drapery.  They  looked  up  and  saw  me  and  appeared  surprised.  Then  they  went  on  with  what  they  were  doing,  and  I  could  see  that  to  stay  would  be  an  intrusion.  That  seems  a  long  time  ago.  Going  the  other  way,  it  is  the  after-  noon  almost  at  once.  An  old  wooden  house,  on  the  first  corner,  is  lived  in  by  some  people  who  are  never  seen.  Be-  yond  it,  picket  fences,  Tall  bushes.  Nodding  flowers.  A  block  of  small  brick  houses  with  low  black  iron  rail-  ings  along  the  sidewalk,  where  chil-  dren  come  back  from  school  in  groups,  with  their  mothers,  and  go  in  for  some-  thing  nice,  quiet,  musty.  By  the  time  one  gets  to  the  park,  the  day  is  growing  late,  as  you  can  see  by  the  way  a  ball  drops  from  the  air,  and  can  hear  from  the  echoes  ofvoices  playing  tag,  and  of  a  rope  striking  the  pavement.  Urns  at  the  tops  of  columns  mark  the  way  home  to  supper.  The  street  itself  goes  on,  after  the  park,  down  the  long  viaduct,  through  the  dusk,  while  the  lights  come  on,  and  sounds  of  hymns  drift  from  evening  services.  From  the  foot  of  the  viaduct  it  heads  out  through  the  night  in  the  port,  and  comes  to  an  end  at  the  ferry  barns,  which  are  closed  at  that  hour.  The  wide  cobbled  plaza  in  front  of  them  is  empty,  except  for  one  car  with  its  lights  out  and  nobody  in  it,  parked  at  the  foot  of  one  of  the  ramps.  All  of  the  ramps  have  been  closed  with  crisscross  iron  gates.  There  are  few  lights  around  the  plaza.  The  city  to  which  the  ferries  go  looks  nearer  than  it  does  by  day.  But  over  there  even  now  the  stars  are  going  out  above  the  tall  buildings,  the  sky  is  growing  pale,  and  itis  already  tomorrow.   "