 b"C'MON  Hilda  don't  fret.    -Well  Maggie  it's  a  blow.  -Don't  let  it  bother  you,  don't  let  it  get  you  down.  -Once  I  thought  they  were  going  to  admit  me  to  the  Conservatory  but  now  I  know  they  will  never  admit  me  to  the  Conservatory.  -Yes  they  are  very  particular  about  who  they  admit  to  the  Conservatory.  They  will  never  admit  you  to  the  Con-  servatory.  -They  will  neveradmit  me  to  the  Conservatory,  I  know  that  now.  -You  are  not  Conservatory  materi-  al  I'm  afraid.  That's  the  plain  truth  of  it.  -You're  not  important,  they  told  me,  just  remember  that,  you're  not  important,  what's  so  important  about  you?  What?  -C'mon  Hilda  don't  fret.  -Well  Maggie  it's  a  blow.  -When  are  you  going  to  change  yourself,  change  yourself  into  a  loaf  and  a  fish?  -Christian  imagery  is  taught  atthe  Conservatory,  also  Islamic  imagery  and  the  imagery  of  Public  Safety.  -Red,  yellow,  and  green  circles.  -When  they  told  me  I  got  between  the  poles  of  my  rickshaw  and  trotted  heavily  away.  -The  great  black  ironwork  doors  of  the  Conservatory  barred  to  you  for-  ever.  -Trotted  heavily  away  in  the  di-  rectionof  my  house.  My  small,  poor  house.  -C'mon  Hilda  don't  fret.  -Yes,  I  am  still  trying  to  get  into  the  Conservatory,  although  my  chances  are  probably  worse  than  ever.  -They  don't  want  pregnant  wom-  en  in  the  Conservatory.  -I  didn't  tell  them,  I  lied  about  it.  -Didn't  they  ask  you?  -No  they  forgot  to  ask  me  and  I  didn't  tell  them.  --Well  then  it's  hardly  on  that  ac-  count  that-  -I  felt  they  knew.  -The  Conservatory  is  hostile  to  the  new  spirit,  the  new  spirit  is  not  liked  there.  -Well  Maggie  it's  a  blow  neverthe-  less.  I  had  to  go  back  to  my  house.  -Where  although  you  entertain  the  foremost  artists  and  intellectuals  of  your  time  you  grow  progressively  more  despondent  and  depressed.  -Yes  he  was  a  frightful  lawyer.  -Lover?  -That  too,  frightful.  He  said  he  could  not  get  me  into  the  Conserva-  tory  because  of  my  unimportance.  -Was  there  a  fee?  -There's  always  a  fee.  Pounds  and  pounds.  -I  stood  on  the  terrace  at  the  rear  of  the  Conservatory  and  studied  the  flagstones  reddened  with  the  lifebloods  of  generations  of  Conservatory  stu-  dents.  Standing  there  I  reflected:  Hilda  will  never  be  admitted  to  the  Con-  servatory.  -I  read  the  Conservatory  Circular  and  my  name  was  not  among  those  listed.  --Well  I  suppose  it  was  in  part  your  espousal  of  the  new  spirit  that  counted  against  you.  -I  will  never  abjure  the  new  spirit.  -And  you're  a  veteran  too,I  should  have  thought  that  would  have  weighed  in  your  favor.  --Well  Maggie  it's  a  disappoint-  ment,  I  must  admit  that  frankly.  -C'mon  Hilda  don't  weep  and  tear  your  hair  here  where  they  can  see  you.  -Are  they  looking  out  of  the  win-  dows?  --Probably  they're  looking  out  of  the  windows.  -It's  said  that  they  import  a  cook,  on  feast  days.  -They  have  naked  models  too.  -Do  you  really  think  so?  I'm  not  surprised.  --The  best  students  get  their  din-  ners  sent  upon  trays.  -Do  you  really  think  so?  I'm  not  surprised.  -Grain  salads  and  large  portions  of  choice  meats.  -Oh  it  hurts,  it  hurts,  it  hurts.  -Bread  with  drippings,  and  on  feast  days  cake.  -I'm  as  gifted  as  they  are,  I'm  as  gifted  as  some  of  them.  -Decisions  made  by  a  committee  of  ghosts.  They  drop  black  beans  or  white  beans  into  a  pot.  -Once  I  thought  I  was  to  be  ad-  mitted.  There  were  encouraging  let-  ters.  -You're  not  Conservatory  material  I'm  afraid.  Only  the  best  material  is  Conservatory  material.  -I'm  as  good  as  some  of  those  who  rest  now  in  the  soft  Conservatory  beds.  -Merit  is  always  considered  close-  ly.  %  -I  could  smile  back  at  the  smiling  faces  of  the  swift,  dangerous  teachers.  -Yes,  we  have  naked  models,  No,  the  naked  models  are  not  emotionally  meaningful  to  us.  -I  could  work  with  clay  or  paste  things  together.  -Yes,  sometimes  we  paste  things  on  the  naked  models-clothes,  mostly.  Yes,  sometimes  we  play  our  Conserva-  tory  violins,cellos,  trumpets  for  the  naked  models,  or  sing  to  them,  or  cor-  rect  their  speech,  as  our  deft  fingers  fly  over  the  sketch  pads.  ...  -I  could  I  suppose  fill  out  another  application,  or  several.  -Yes,  you  have  considerable  of  a  belly  on  you  now.  I  remember  when  it  was  flat,  flat  as  a  book.  -I  will  die  if  I  don't  get  into  the  Conservatory,  die.  -Naw  you  won't  you're  just  saying  that.  -I  will  completely  croak  if  I  don't  get  into  the  Conservatory,  I  promise  you.  -Things  are  not  so  bad,  you  can  al-  ways  do  something  else,  I  don't  know  what,  c'mon  Hilda  be  reasonable.  -My  whole  life  depends  on  it.  -Oh  God  I  remember  when  it  was  flat.  Didn't  we  tear  things  up,  though?  I  remember  running  around  that  town,  and  hiding  in  dark  places,  that  was  a  great  town  and  I'm  sorry  we  left  it.  -Now  we  are  grown,  grown  and  proper.  -Well,  I  misled  you.  The  naked  models  are  emotionally  meaningful  to  us.  -They  are?  -We  love  them  and  sleep  with  them  all  the  time-before  breakfast,  after  breakfast,  during  breakfast.  -Why  that's  all  right!  -Why  that's  rather  neat!  -I  like  that!  -That's  not  so  bad!  -I  wish  you  hadn't  told  me  that.  -C'mon  Hilda  don't  be  so  single-  minded,  there  are  lots  of  other  things  you  can  do  if  you  want.  -I  guess  they  operate  on  some  kind  of  principle  of  exclusivity.  Keeping  some  people  out  while  letting  other  people  in.  -We  got  a  Coushatta  Indian  in  there,  real  full-blooded  Coushatta  In-  dian.  -In  there?  -Yes.  He  does  hanging  walls  out  of  scraps  of  fabric  and  twigs,  very  beautiful,  and  he  does  sand  paintings  and  plays  on  whistles  of  various  kinds,  sometimes  he  chants,  and  he  bangs  on  a  drum,  works  in  silver,  and  he's  also  a  weaver,  and  he  translates  things  from  " b"Coushatta  into  English  and  from  Eng-  lish  into  Coushatta  and  he's  also  a  crack  shot  and  can  bulldog  steers  and  catch  catfish  on  trotlines  and  ride  bareback  and  make  medicine  out  of  common  ingredients,  aspirin  mostly,  and  he  sings  and  he's  also  an  actor.  He's  very  tal-  ented.  -My  whole  life  depends  on  it.  -Listen  Hilda  maybe  you  could  be  an  Associate.  We  have  this  deal  where-  by  you  pay  twelve  bucks  a  year  and  that  makes  youan  Associate.  You  get  the  Circular  and  have  all  the  privileges  of  an  Associate.  -What  are  they?  -You  get  the  Circular.  -That's  all?  -Well  I  guess  you're  right.  -I'm  just  going  to  sit  here  I'm  not  going  to  go  away.  -Your  distress  is  poignant  to  me.  --I'1ll  have  the  baby  right  here  right  on  these  steps.  -Well  maybe  there'll  be  good  news  one  of  these  days.  --I  feel  like  a  dead  person  sitting  in  a  chair.  -You're  still  pretty  and  attractive.  -That's  good  to  hear  I'm  pleased  you  think  that.  -And  warm  you're  warm  you're  very  warm.  -Yes  I  have  a  warm  nature  very  warm.  --Weren't  you  in  the  Peace  Corps  also  years  ago?  -I  was  and  drove  ambulances  too  down  in  [REDACTED].  -The  Conservatory  life  is  just  as  halcyon  as  you  imagine  it-precisely  so.  -I  guess  I'll  just  have  to  go  back  to  my  house  and  clean  up,  take  out  the  papers  and  the  trash.  -I  guess  that  kid'll  be  born  one  of  these  days,  right?  -Continue  working  on  my  \xc3\xa9tudes  no  matter  what  they  say.  -That's  admirable  I  think.  -The  thing  is  not  to  let  your  spirit  be  conquered.  --I  guess  that  kid'll  be  born  after  a  while,  right?  -I  guess  so.  Those  boogers  are  really  gonna  keep  me  out  of  there,  you  know  that?  -Their  minds  are  inflexible  and  rigid.  -P  robably  because  I'm  a  poor  preg-  nant  woman  don't  you  think?  -You  said  you  didn't  tell  them.  -But  maybe  they're  very  shrewd  psychologists  and  they  could  just  look  at  my  face  and  tell.  --No  it  doesn't  show  yet  how  many  months  are  you?  -Two  and  a  half  just  about  you  can  tell  when  I  take  my  clothes  off.  -You  didn't  take  your  clothes  off  did  you?  --No  I  was  wearing  you  know  what  the  students  wear,  Jeans  and  a  sarape.  I  carried  a  green  book  bag.  -Jam-packed  with  \xc3\xa9tudes.  -Yes.  He  asked  where  I  had  got-  ten  my  previous  training  and  I  told  him.  -Oh  boy  I  remember  when  it  was  flat,  flat  as  the  deck  of  something,  a  boat  or  a  ship.  -You're  not  important,  they  told  me.  -Joun  -Oh  sweetie  I  am  so  sorry  for  you.  -We  parted  then  I  walking  through  the  gorgeous  Conservatory  light  into  the  foyer  and  then  through  the  great  black  ironwork  Conservatory  doors.  -I  was  a  face  on  the  other  side  of  the  glass.  -My  aspect  as  I  departed  most  dignified  and  serene.  -Time  heals  everything.  -No  it  doesn't.  -Cut  lip  fat  lip  puffed  lip  split  lip.  -Haw!  haw!  haw!  haw!  " b" -Well  Hilda  there  are  other  things  in  life.  -Yes  Maggie  I  suppose  there  are.  None  that  I  want.  -Non-Conservatory  people  have  their  own  lives.  We  Conservatory  peo-  ple  don't  have  much  to  do  with  them  but  we  are  told  they  have  their  own  lives.  --I  suppose  I  could  file  an  appeal  if  there's  anywhere  to  file  an  appeal  to.  If  there's  anywhere.  -That's  an  idea  we  get  stacks  of  appeals,  stacks  and  stacks.  -I  can  wait  all  night.  Here  on  the  steps.  -I'll  sit  with  you.  P'll  help  you  for-  mulate  the  words.  -Are  they  looking  out  of  the  win-  dows?  -Yes  I  think  so.  What  do  you  want  to  say?  -I  want  to  say  my  whole  life  de-  pends  on  it.  Something  like  that.  -It's  against  the  rules  for  Con-  servatory  people  to  help  non-Conserva-  tory  people  you  know  that.  -Well  Goddammit  I  thought  you  were  going  to  help  me.  -O.K.  I'll  help  you.  What  do  you  want  to  say?  -I  want  to  say  my  whole  life  de-  pends  on  it.  Something  like  that.  -We  got  man  naked  models  and  woman  naked  models,  harps,  giant  potted  plants,  and  drapes.  There  are  hierarchies,  some  people  higher  up  and  others  lower  down.  These  mingle,  in  the  gorgeous  light.  We  have  lots  of  fun.  There's  lots  of  green  furniture  you  know  with  paint  on  it.  Worn  green  paint.  Gilt  lines  one-quarter  inch  from  the  edges.  Worn  gilt  lines.  -And  probably  flambeaux  in  little  niches  in  the  walls,  right?  -Yeah  we  got  flambeaux.  Who's  the  father?  -Guy  named  Robert.  -Did  you  have  a  good  time?  -The  affair  ran  the  usual  course.  Fever,  boredom,  trapped.  -Hot,  rinse,  spin  dry.  -Is  it  wonderful  in  there  Maggie?  -I  have  to  say  it  is.  Yes.  It  is.  -Do  you  feel  great,  being  there?  Do  you  feel  wonderful?  -Yes,  it  feels  pretty  good.  Very  often  there  is,  upon  the  tray,  a  rose.  -I  will  never  be  admitted  to  the  Conservatory.  -You  will  never  be  admitted  to  the  Conservatory.  -How  do  I  look?  -O.K.  Not  bad.  Fine.  -I  will  never  get  there.  How  do  I  look?  -Fine.  Great.  Time  heals  every-  thing  Hilda.  -No  it  doesn't.  -Time  heals  everything.  -No  it  doesn't.  How  do  I  look?  -Old. "