 b"THROUGHOUT  all  his  years  Reb  Piniele  Dlusker  had  devoted  himself  to  Chassidism.  He  trav-  elled  to  the  courts  of  the  Zanz  Rabbi,  the  Belz  Rabbi,  the  Trisk  Rabbi.  Chas-  sidim  argued  with  him  that  one  rabbi  was  enough,  but  Reb  Piniele  said,  &quot;Why  can  a  mother  love  a  dozen  children?  Why  do  rich  men  live  in  many  rooms?  Why  does  the  emperor  have  a  lot  of  soldiers?  My  pleasure  is  wonder  rabbis.&quot;  Reb  Piniele  visited  his  rabbis  on  ev-  ery  holiday,  even  on  Passover,  although  the  most  fervent  Chassidim  made  it  a  custom  to  spend  the  Passover  seders  at  home  with  their  families.  In  the  first  years  of  their  marriage,  his  wife,  Shprintza  Pesha,  had  objected.  Her  mother  had  even  advised  her  to  get  a  divorce.  Matters  had  come  close  to  this  when  Shprintza  Pesha  lost  a  set  of  twins  to  scarlet  fever,  which  she  took  as  punishment  from  Heaven  for  having  caused  her  Piniele  grief.  In  later  years,  other  children  died-whooping  cough,  diphtheria,  measles-until  Reb  Pinicle  and  Shprintza  Pesha  were  left  with  one  daughter,  Yochna,  named  after  Shprintza  Pesha's  great-aunt.  Yochna  grew  up  healthy.  She  sel-  dom  cried  and  was  forever  smiling,  re-  vealing  the  dimples  in  her  cheeks.  Shprintza  Pesha,  the  breadwinner,  had  a  store  where  she  sold  yard  goods  and  notions-sackcloth,  lining  material,  thread,  buttons.  Yochna  virtually  raised  herself,  Reb  Piniele  wanted  his  only  child  to  grow  up  a  pious  Jewish  daughter,  and  when  Yochna  turned  four  he  engaged  a  rabbi's  wife  to  teach  her  the  alphabet,  and  later  prayers,  and  even  how  to  write  a  line  or  two  in  Yiddish.  But  Yochna  had  no  head  for  learning.  She  ate  a  lot  and  quickly  grew  plump.  Other  girls  played  tag,  hide-and-seek,  and  danced  in  circles,  but  Yochna  sat  in  front  of  the  house  in  the  summers  and  made  mud  pies.  At  mealtime  her  mother  brought  her  fatty  meats,  groats,  soup,  bread  with  honey,  and  Sabbath  cookies.  Yochna  finished  every  bite,  and  always  de-  manded  more.  She  was  as  blond  as  a  little  Gentile,  her  hair  pale  as  flax  and  her  eyes  blue  as  cornflowers.  At  eleven,  Yochna  became  a  wom-  an,  and  Shprintza  Pesha  brought  her  a  little  pouch  containing  a  wolf's  tooth  to  ward  off  the  evil  eye  and  a  talisman  to  drive  away  intruding  spirits.  She  had  the  breasts  of  an  adult,  and  Shprintza  Pesha  paid  a  seamstress  to  make  her  daughter  camisoles  and  drawers  with  lace.  Yochna  never  learned  to  read  from  a  prayer  book,  butshe  had  committed  to  memory  the  prayer  said  upon  rising,  the  benediction  said  before  each  meal,  as  well  as  other  graces.  Yochna  loved  Jewishness.  She  insisted  that  her  moth-  er  take  her  to  the  women's  section  of  the  synagogue  on  Sabbaths  and,  like  the  pious  matrons,  she  took  care  to  say  &quot;Blessed  be  He  and  blessed  be  His  name&quot;  and  &quot;Amen&quot;  when  the  cantor  in  the  men's  section  recited  the  Eight-  een  Benedictions.  She  also  listened  to  the  conductor  of  the  women's  services  reciting  the  prayers  for  those  who  didn't  know  the  alphabet.  Whenever  a  travelling  preacher  came  to  town,  Yochna  went  to  hear  his  sermon.  She  cried  as  he  described  the  tortures  in  Gehenna:  the  beds  of  nails,  the  whip-  pings  by  the  avenging  demons,  the  glowing  coals  upon  which  sinners  were  rolled.  Her  eyes  gleamed  when  the  preacher  told  how  in  [REDACTED]  God-  fearing  women  became  the  footstools  for  their  husbands  and  were  made  privy,  along  with  the  men,  to  the  se-  crets  of  the  Torah.  HEN  Yochna  turned  twelve,  she  was  besieged  by  marriage  brok-  ers  offering  matches,  but  her  father,  Reb  Piniele,  brought  her  a  groom  from  Trisk,  a  yeshiva  student,  an  orphan,  who  studied  seventeen  hours  a  day.  His  name  was  Shmelke,  and  he  was  three  years  older  than  Yochna.  He  slept  and  ate  at  an  inn.  The  couple  would  first  face  each  other  at  the  wedding  cere-  mony  during  the  unveiling  of  the  bride,  but  Yochna  cared  for  him  without  hav-  ing  seen  him.  She  began  to  embroider  a  velvet  prayer-shawl  sack  for  him  of  gold  and  silver  thread,  as  well  as  a  bag  for  the  phylacteries,  a  Sabbath-  l  loaf  cover,  and  a  case  for  \xc2\xae  matzos.  A  rebbetzin  came  f  to  teach  Yochna  how  to  Ih  count  off  the  days  following  Ly  her  period  to  determine  when  she  could  lie  with  her  husband,  and  how  to  maintain  marital  purity  by  taking  the  prescribed  ablutions  in  the  ritual  bath.  Yochna  learned  it  all,  and  the  rebbetzin  praised  her  diligence.  Shprintza  Pesha  ordered  a  trousseau  for  her  daughter.  It  wasn't  easy  to  fit  her,  since  she  had  grown  like  dough  made  with  lots  of  yeast.  The  tailor's  assistants  joked  that  she  had  a  bosom  like  a  wet  nurse.  They  compared  her  thighs  to  butcher's  blocks.  But  her  feet  were  small  and  her  fair  hair  hung  to  her  hips.  Shprintza  Pesha  spared  no  wool,  silk,  or  satin  to  adorn  Yochna.  The  whole  town  attended  the  wed-ding,  and  Shprintza  Pesha  baked  huge  cakes  and  cooked  caldrons  of  meats  and  soups.  When  Yochna  was  led  to  the  ritual  bath,  the  musicians  played  a  good-night  tune.  The  riffraff  who  hung  around  the  taverns  had  plenty  to  mock.  When  the  bath  attendant  snipped  off  Yochna's  hair  and  then  shaved  her  skull  with  a  razor,  the  young  matrons  at  the  bath  burst  into  tears,  but  Yochna  said,  &quot;What  are  you  bawling  for?  Since  God  ordered  it,  it's  fine  and  proper.&quot;  On  the  night  of  their  wedding,  Shmelke  lifted  the  veil  from  Yochna's  face.  She  glanced  up  and  was  filled  with  a  great  love  for  him.  He  was  short,  slight,  dark,  with  black  earlocks  twisted  like  horns  and  sunken  cheeks  that  bore  no  trace  of  a  beard.  His  gaberdine  hung  too  long  and  too  loose  upon  him.  The  fur  cap  he  wore  had  slipped  over  his  dark  eyes,  and  he  trembled  and  sweated.  &quot;Oh,  does  he  look  starved,  my  treasure,  the  crown  upon  my  head,&quot;  Yochna  said  to  her-  self.  &quot;God  willing,  I'll  fatten  him  up.&quot;  Under  the  canopy,  Shmelke  had  trodden  upon  her  foot-a  symbol  that  he  would  be  the  head  of  the  house-  and  a  shudder  ran  down  Yochna's  back.  She  felt  an  urge  to  cry  out,  &quot;Yes,  rule  over  me,  my  lord!  Do  with  me  what-  ever  your  heart  desires!&quot;  Following  the  virtue  dance,  her  two  escorts,  her  mother  and  an  aunt,  led  Yochna  to  the  wedding  chamber.  Both  women  commanded  her  to  give  herself  to  her  husband  willingly,  since  to  be  fruitful  and  multiply  was  the  first  com-  mandment  in  the  Torah.  Yochna  un-  dressed  in  the  dark  and  put  on  a  lacy  nightgown  that  hung  to  the  ankles.  She  got  into  bed  and  waited  pa-  tiently  for  Shmelke  to  come  to  her.  A  bliss  she  had  not  I  known  coursed  through  ev-  ery  limb.  She  was  a  married  woman.  Already  she  wore  a  night  bonnet  on  her  head  and  -l  2  wedding  ring  on  her  finger.  Yochna  prayed  God  to  grant  her  a  houseful  of  healthy  children  that  she  couldbring  up  to  serve  Him.  After  a  while,  Pinicle  and  a  re-  spected  town  elder  escorted  Shmelke  to  the  room  and  closed  the  door.  Yochna  cocked  her  ears  for  any  move-  ment.  He  had  been  let  in  like  a  fowl  into  a  cage.  It  was  pitch-black.  How,  she  worried,  could  a  stranger  undress  here?  How  could  he  find  her  bed?  He  stood  there  and  mumbled.  She  heard  him  bump  against  the  chest  of  drawers.  He's  likely  to  hurt  himself,  God  forbid,  or  fall,  Yochna  thought  with  a  tremor  She  began  whispering  to  him-he  could  drape  his  clothes  over  a  chair.  He  " b"didn't  answer.  She  could  hear  his  teeth  chatter-he  was  shaking  with  fear,  the  poor  thing.  Yochna  forgot  that  she  was  a  bride,  who  must  act  modest.  She  got  out  of  bed  to  try  to  help  him,  but  he  jerked  when  she  touched  him  and  drew  back.  Gradually,  she  calmed  him  with  words.  He  took  off  his  gaberdine,  the  ritual  garment,  the  slippers.  The  whole  timehe  didn't  cease  murmuring.  Was  he  reciting  a  prayer?  Was  he  intoning  an  incantation?  After  a  long  hesitation  he  stepped  out  of  his  pants,  and  she  half  led,  half  pushed  him  toward  her  bed.  Now  he  tossed  about  as  if  in  a  fever.,  An  urge  to  weep  came  over  Yochna,  but  she  held  back  her  tears.  The  attendant  had  told  her  that  ac-  cording  to  law  the  husband  and  wife  were  allowed  to  come  together  in  bed  and  even  kiss  and  embrace.  She  put  her  arms  around  him  and  kissed  his  forehead,  his  cheeks,  his  Adam's  apple.  She  pressed  him  to  her  bosom.  Sudden-  ly  she  heard  his  voice:  &quot;Where  is  my  skullcap?&quot;  He  must  have  lost  it,  and  Yochna  felt  around  on  thecover,  on  the  sheet.  To  avoid  the  sin  of  being  bareheaded,  he  covered  his  skull  with  both  hands.  &quot;Oh,  he  has  a  sacred  soul,&quot;  Yochna  said  to  herself.  &quot;What  did  I  do  to  de-  serve  such  a  saint?&quot; She  gotout  of  bed  to  look  for  the  skullcap.  She  tapped  about  in  the  dark  like  a  blind  person.  &quot;Father  in  Heaven,  help  me  find  the  skullcap!&quot;  she  plead-  ed.  Mentally  she  pledged  eighteen  groschen  to  charity.  At  that  moment,  she  stepped  on  something  soft.  It  was  Shmelke's  skullcap.  Yochna  picked  it  up  and  kissed  it  as  if  it  were  a  page  torn  from  a  holy  book.  &quot;Shmelke,  here  it  is.&quot;  She  could  scarcely  believe  that  she  had  the  courage  to  do  all  this  and  even  to  call  him  by  name.  Shmelke  put  on  the  skullcap  and  began  uttering  pious  words  to  Yochna.  The  coupling  of  husband  and  wife,  he  said,  was  intended  to  bring  forth  sacred  souls  who  waitedby  the  Throne  of  Glory  to  be  purified  and,  through  a  body,  offered  an  opportunity  to  perform  good  deeds.  He  recalled  vir-  tuous  women  from  the  past.  Even  though  Yochna  didn't  understand  the  scholarly  language  he  used,  it  rang  sweet  in  her  ears.  After  he  had  fin-  ished,  he  mounted  her.  The  bath  at-  tendant  and  her  escorts  had  warned  her  that  he  was  likely  to  hurt  her  and  that  she  must  accept  this  pain  with  gratitude  and  joy.  But  she  felt  no  pain.  He  was  as  light  as  a  child  upon  her.  Soon  he  left  her  bed  and  went  to  his  own  bed,  as  the  law  dictated.  When  the  women  came  at  dawn,  they  found  blood  on  Yochna's  sheet  and  they  took  it  along  to  display  in  the  kosher  dance.  ATER  in  the  day,  the  women  and  Shprintza  Pesha  led  Yochna  to  visit  esteemed  matrons  of  the  town,  who  all  welcomed  the  guests  with  cake  and  wine  or  almond  bread  and  cherry  brandy.  Yochna  glanced  in  the  mir-  ror.  How  different  she  looked  in  the  bonnet  with  beads  and  ribbons  and  in  a  dress  with  a  train'  Without  her  hair,  her  head  seemed  oddly  light.  Her  skull  felt  cool.  A  married  woman  doesn't  dare  reveal  her  bare  head  lest  it  rouse  the  lust  of  strange  men.  In  the  seven  days  following  the  wedding,  guests  came  each  night  to  visit,  and  Yochna's  father,  Reb  Piniele,  treated  each  one  to  a  cup  of  cere-  monial  wine.  Shmelke  sat  beside  his  father-in-law,  and  from  time  to  time  Yochna  glanced  at  him  through  the  open  door-he  looked  as  slight  and  bashful  as  a  boy  in  cheder.  The  men  discussed  learned  matters  withhim.  He  replied  briefly  and  in  a  quiet  voice.  Shprintza  Pesha  brought  him  an  ap-  petizer,  noodles  with  soup,  meat-and-  carrot  stew,  but  he  left  most  of  it  on  the  plate  and  his  mother-in-law  chided  him,  saying  that  for  studying  the  Torah  one  needed  to  keep  up  one's  strength.  As  long  as  Yochna  had  been  single,  she  had  properly  not  had  any  girl  friends,  but  now  young  matrons  came  to  discuss  housekeeping  matters  with  her-how  to  sew,  darn,  knit;  how  to  get  bargains  at  stores;  how  to  do  needle-  point  of  trees,  flowers,  deer,  and  lions  on  canvas.  'The  women  taught  her  how  to  play  knucklebones,  wolf-and-  goats,  and  even  checkers.  They  in-  sisted  that  Yochna  show  them  her  jew-  elry  and  the  dresses  that  had  been  sewn  for  her  trousseau.  Shprintza  Pesha  had  given  her  daughter  all  her  jewelry,  leaving  herself  only  a  single  gold  me-  dallion  with  a  charm.  'The  women  praised  Yochna's  jewelry  but  hinted  that  it  was  old-fashioned.  Her  chain,  the  bracelet,  the  brooch,  even  the  ear-  rings  and  rings  were  too  heavy.  A  new  fad  had  evolved-light  jewelry.  Yoch-  na  nodded  and  smiled.,  What  did  all  this  matter  to  her?  Her  finest  adorn-  ment  was  Shmelke.  HE  wedding  had  taken  place  on  the  Sabbath  night  following  the  Feast  of  Shevuot.  In  the  month  of  Elul,  Reb  Piniele  began  talking  of  spending  the  holidays  with  his  rabbis-Rosh  Ha-  shanah  with  one,  Yom  Kippur  with  an-  other,  Sukkoth  with  a  third.  He  pro-  posed  to  Shmelke  that  he  accompany  him.  He  wanted  to  show  off  his  son-  " b"in-law,  the  scholar.  But  Shmelke  demurred.  Shmelke  had  his  own  rabbi.  His  father,  blessed  be  his  memory,  had  visited  the  court  of  the  Warka  Rabbi.  When,  after  some  hesi-  tation,  Shmelke  told  Reb  Piniele  that  he  wished  to  spend  Rosh  Hashanah  in  Warka,  Reb  Piniele  struck  a  bargain.  On  Rosh  Hashanah  and  Yom  Kippur  Shmelke  would  accompany  him  to  Belz  and  to  Trisk,  and  Shmelke  would  then  go  on  to  Warka  for  Sukkoth.  And  that's  how  it  was  settled.  At  the  news  that  Shmelke  would  be  go-  ing  away  for  the  holi-  days,  Yochna  felt  like  crying.  Most  young  husbands  remained  with  their  wives  for  the  hol-  idays.  But  a  Jewish  daughter  had  to  do  what  her  father  said  and  what  her-  hus-  band  wanted.  Yochna  began  to  prepare  the  things  Shmelke  would  need  for  the  trip:shirts,  drawers,  socks,  fringed  ritual  garments,  handkerchiefs,  Around  Sukkoth  the  weather  begins  to  turn  cool,  and  Yochna  saw  to  it  that  Shmelke  took  along  a  wool  jacket  and  an  overcoat.  What  Yochna  did  for  Shmelke,  Shprintza  Pesha  did  for  Piniele.  Shprintza  Pesha  was  used  to  Piniele's  travels,  but  Yochna  began  to  long  for  Shmelke  even  before  he  left.  She  begged  her  father  to  keep  an  eye  on  him.  Piniele  replied,  &quot;Don't  carry  on,  daughter.  Those  who  travel  in  the  service  of  God  aren't  harmed.&quot;  Piniele  and  Shmelke  rode  off  in  a  wagon  to  a  village  by  the  Austrian  border,  where  they  were  helped  to  smuggle  themselves  across.  The  border  patrol  was  bribed  in  advance.  To  ob-  tain  a  foreign  passport  and  a  visa  cost  too  much  and  required  a  long  wait.  The  527573736961ns,  Prussians,  and  Austrians  had  divided  [REDACTED]  among  themselves,  but  the  527573736961n  Chassidim  visited  Aus-  trian  rabbis  and  Austrian  Chassidim  visited  their  rabbis  in  [REDACTED].  ONCE  their  husbands  left,  Shprintza  Pesha  and  Yochna  began  to  pre-  pare  for  the  holidays,  On  Rosh  Hasha-  nah  night,  Shprintza  Pesha  and  Yochna  lit  candles  in  silver  holders.  Later,  Shprintza  Pesha  pronounced  a  benedic-  tion  over  a  goblet  of  wine  and  started  to  cut  the  Rosh  Hashanah  loaf,  which  resembled  a  bird.  Mother  and  daughter  each  atea  slice,  with  honey,  a  carp's  head,  and  carrots.  Yochna  remembered  the  correct  Hebrew  words  to  say.  The  next  morning,  Yochna  put  on  a  gold  dress  and  a  headband  with  gems,  and,  even  though  she  could  not  read,  she  took  along  to  the  synagogue  a  Hebrew  prayer  book  with  its  copper  clasp  and  a  Yiddish  supplication  book,  the  title  embossed  in  gold.  When  Shprintza  Pesha  bowed,  hopped  about,  or  cried,  Yochna  bowed,  hopped,  and  cried  along.  Thus  Rosh  Hashanah  and  Yom  Kippur  went  by.  All  the  women  wished  Yochna  a  good  year  that  would  include  a  circumcision  celebration.  During  the  intermediary  days  of  Sukkoth,  sudden  heavy  winds  rose.  Their  force  blew  away  the  branches  of  fir  that  had  been  used  as  roofs  for  the  Sukkoth  booths,  knocked  over  the  walls,  scattering  chairs  and  tables  as  well  as  the  holiday  decorations.  On  the  night  of  Hoshana  Rabba,  the  sev-  enth  day  of  Sukkoth,  thunder  shook  the  air,  the  sky  flashed  with  lightning,  and  rain  mixed  with  hail  fell  in  a  tor-  rent.  Old  people  couldn't  recall  a  storm  of  such  intensity  this  time  of  the  year.  Water  roared  down  [REDACTED]  Street,  and  the  paupers  who  lived  there  had  to  leave  with  their  children  to  sleep  on  higher  ground  in  the  house  of  wor-  ship  or  in  the  poorhouse.  Gusts  of  wind  sent  shingles  flying  over  the  town.  In  the  middle  ofthe  eighth  day  of  Suk-  koth  it  grew  so  dark  it  seemed  as  if  the  world  might  be  coming  to  an  end.  Shprintza  Pesha  and  Yochna  had  in-  vited  some  women  and  girls  over  for  Simchas  Torah.  Mother  and  daughter  had  prepared  great  pots  of  cabbage  with  cream  of  tartar  and  raisins,  roast  goose,  and  baked  flat  cakes  and  tarts,  but  no  one  could  wade  through  the  streets.  Bad  news  came  to  the  magis-  trate  from  many  cities  and  villages  that  the  rivers  San,  Bug,  and  Vistula  had  overflowed  their  banks.  Herds  of  cat-  tle  had  drowned,  rafts  that  lumber  merchants  floated  to  Danzig  had  shat-  tered,  and  those  who  worked  them  were  lost.  Pious  women  said  that  the  disaster  was  punishment  from  the  Al-  mighty;  the  responsibility  lay  with  the  big-city  heretics,  as  well  as  with  the  wanton  women  who  went  around  bareheaded,  failed  to  attend  the  ritual  bath,  and  wore  dresses  with  short  sleeves  that  exposed  their  flesh.  Normally,  Reb  Piniele  came  home  on  the  day  after  the  holiday,  but  two  " b"weeks  passed  with  not  a  word  from  him  or  from  Shmelke.  The  rains  had  stopped  by  then  and  the  frosts  had  started,  Because  the  roads  were  cov-  ered  with  ice,  the  peasantscouldn't  de-  liver  wood  and  grain  to  the  villages  and  towns.  During  the  gales,  sluices  had  torn  in  the  water  mills  and  the  mill  wheels  had  broken.  Children  collapsed  in  illness,  and  mothers  ran  to  the  syn-  agogue  to  clutch  at  the  holy  ark  and  pray  for  their  recovery.  NE  night,  Piniele  came  home.  Shprintza  Pesha  barely  recog-  nized  him.  He  looked  emaciated,  sick,  stooped.  He  brought  bad  tidings.  He  had  detained  Shmelke  in  Trisk  until  the  sixth  day  of  Sukkoth.  A  day  be-  fore  Hoshana  Rabba,  Shmelke  had  started  out  for  Warka.  The  wagon  on  which  he  was  travelling  had  reached  a  wooden  bridge.  A  fierce  blast  of  wind  came  up.  The  bridge  collapsed  and  Shmelke  had  drowned,  along  with  the  other  passengers.  The  driver  and  horses  had  perished,  too.  The  townsmen  searched  forthe  bodies  for  three  days,  but  the  current  had  carried  them  off  to  who  knows  where.  Yochna  had  been  left  a  deserted  wife.  She  knew  the  law:  if  Shmelke's  body  was  not  found  and  recognized,  she  could  never  remarry.  Shprintza  Pesha  erupted  in  howls  and  Yochna  howled  along.  Shprintza  Pesha  wrung  her  hands,  and  Yochna  followed  suit.  Mother  and  daughter  wept  and  wailed.  Piniele  spoke  of  Shmelke's  greatness  for  hours.  On  the  way  to  Belz  and  Trisk  he  and  Shmelke  had  sat  up  all  night  in  the  wagon,  chanting  the  Mishnah  by  heart.  Both  rabbis  they  visited  had  promptly  ac-  knowledged  Shmelke's  reverence  for  God  and  had  called  him  a  sage.  Each  report  of  praise  caused  mother  and  daughter  to  burst  out  anew.  At  day-break,  Yochna  fell  asleep  in  her  clothes,  her  mouth  open.  Shprintza  Pesha  woke  her  later  in  the  morning.  &quot;Daughter,  enough,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It  is  God's  decree.&quot;  &quot;Shall  I  observe  the  seven  days  of  mourning?&quot;  Yochna  asked.  'Yes,  Daughter,  observe  the  mourn-  ing.&quot;  &quot;I'll  ask  the  rabbi's  advice,&quot;  Reb  Piniele  said.  Reb  Piniele  went  off  to  consult  the  rabbi  and  stayed  away  a  long  time.  Yochna  took  off  her  shoes  and  sat  down  on  a  footstool  in  her  stocking  feet.  Her  luck  had  glowed  briefly,  then  been  extinguished.  What  had  she  done  to  be  so  afflicted?  She  was  deserted  for-  ever,  albeit  she  would  not  want  to  mar-  ry  again.  Sitting  there  bewailing  her  fate,  it  struck  Yochna  that  she  should  have  got  her  period  between  Rosh  Hashanah  and  Yom  Kippur.  How  was  it  she  had  forgotten  about  it?  And  how  was  it  that  her  mother  had  said  noth-  ing?  Usually  she  kept  track  of  the  days.  Yochna  glanced  up  toward  the  win-  dow.  The  sky  hovered  low,  gray.  Across  the  way  a  crow  clung  to  a  chimney.  It  was  hard  to  tell  if  it  was  alive  or  frozen  there.  Minutes  went  by  and  it  didn't  move  either  its  head  or  wing.  It  had  fulfilled  its  mission  here  on  earth  and  was  already  in  God's  hands,  Yochna  thought.  She  closed  her  eyes  and  delivered  herself  completely  in-  to  God's  power.  She  listened  to  her  own  body.  Had  Shmelke  really  left  an  heir?  God  has  dominion  over  the  living  and  the  dead  and  over  those  yet  to  be  born.  Shprintza  Pesha  came  in  from  the  kitchen  with  a  slice  "