 b"THIS  has  been  the  hardest  winter  in  memory,  and  up  here  in  New  [REDACTED],  N.H.  (pop.  2,300),  I  have  spent  a  good  part  of  it  thinking  about  all  my  friends  back  in  the  city  and  the  suburbs  who  have  expressed  the  wish  to  move  up  here  and  live  in  the  real  country.  Friends,  have  you  been  thinking  about  me?  Do  you  wonder  how  we  survived  here  when  our  house  lay  under  four  feet  of  snow  (a  lie)  and  the  rock  maples  creaked  in  tempera-  tures  that  reached  twenty  below  (an-  other  lie)?  Say  yes,  because  I'm  about  to  tell  you.  Wear  socks  to  bed.  Keep  on  good  terms  with  pets.  (The  three-dog  night-as  in  &quot;one  dog  in  bed  for  cold  weather,  two  dogs  for  very  cold  weather,&quot;  etc.-is  no  joke.  In  a  large  New  Hampshlre  family  there  is  much  calling  of  dogs  and  cats  from  room  to  room  at  bedtime.)  Send  Christmas  whiskey  to  the  plumber,  Propitiate  the  car  repairman.  Drink.  When  warm,  gloat.  When  cold,  boast.  Once,  this  family  lived  on  the  Cana-  dian  border  of  [REDACTED],  on  the  shore  of  a  frozen  lake.  Friends,  it  was  really  cold  there.  One  night  three  cars  fos-  silized.  It  was  thirty-two  below.  It  was  thirty-six  below.  It  was  forty-one  be-  low.  These  figures  are  offered  now  by  several  family  members,  one  of  whom  was  only  two  at  the  time,.  Falsehood  blooms  in  three-dog  weather;  satisfy-  ing  lies  are  told  about  snow  depth,  wind  velocity,  and  the  performance  of  wood  stoves,  but  most  particularly  about  temperature.  That  winter,  we  drained  the  motor  oil,  stiff  as  the  blood  of  frozen  mammoths,  from  our  three  cars,  heated  it  on  the  kitchen  stove  in  the  pot-roast  pot,  and  poured  it  back  into  the  cars.  One  of  them  started.  We  drove  uptown.  &quot;Forty-four  below  at  our  place  last  night,&quot;  said  the  first  soul  we  met.  It  is  colder  in  the  valleys,  be-cause  cold  air  sinks.  It  is  colder  on  high  ground,  because  the  wind  howls.  On  nippy  mornings  this  winter,  the  children  tunnel  out  of  bed  fully  clothed,  and  add  layers.  Coals  are  raked  for-  ward  in  the  upstairs  and  downstairs  wood  stoves,  splits  of  dried  rock  maple  are  thrown  in,  dampers  are  opened,  and  the  stoves  roar.  In  fifteen  min-  utes,  the  heat  blasted  outward  by  these  loyal  friends  will  be  detectable  at  dis-  tances  of  nearly  twelve  inches.  Shrieks  are  heard  from  the  upstairs  bathroom.  The  hot-water  tap,  a  quisling  remem-  bered  from  other  winters,  has  frozen.  It  will  have  to  be  encouraged  with  a  propane  torch,  but  it  will  freeze  again  on  the  next  clear  night,  and  it  will  spend  the  winter  buried  in  permacurse.  Talk  is  heard  of  moving  back  to  the  city.  The  permacurse  laver  is  thick  in  central  New  [REDACTED],  where  the  family  now  huddles.  Most  of  it  is  caused  by  machines  that  won't  start.  Water  pipes,  septic  systems,  clothes  washers,  chain  saws,  snowblowers,  and  cars  that  have  no  personality  in  August  turn  balky  and  pusillanimous  in  January  or,  contrariwise,  reveal  themselves  as  sturdy  and  valorous  com-  rades.  The  family's  ten-year-old  Plym-  outh  convertible,  a  heap  whose  battery  cables  writhe  upward  from  a  yellow-  ish  mass  of  foaming  corrosion,  grunts  once  on  squeaky-cold  mornings,  then  starts.  The  family's  practically  new  1974  Desposo  station  wagon  groans  and  crepitates  but  will  not  run,  despite  new  plugs,  points,  and  starter.  There  are  ten  ways,  in  addition  to  boiling  oil,  to  start  a  mutinous  auto:  (1)  push  it,  (2)  pull  it,  (3)  plug  in  engine-block  heater  the  night  before,  (4)  use  hair  dryer,  (5)  use  electric  space  heater,  (6)  remove  battery  the  night  before  and  sleep  with  it  under  your  pillow,  (7)  spray  starting  fluid  into  carburetor,  (8)  mix  a  product  called  Drygas  with  fuel  before  the  gas  line  freezes,  (9)  build  heated  garage  the  summer  before,  (10)  call  service  truck.  The  Desposo  knows  eleven  ways  not  to  start.  It  is  loathed,  not  only  by  the  family  but  by  the  local  garagemen.  The  head  garageman  is  a  tall,  sunny-natured  young  man  who,  four  days  into  a  good  freeze-up,  looks  like  Max  von  Sydow  toward  the  end  of  an  Ingmar  Bergman  film.  His  cheeks  are  sunken.  He  stands  ankle-deep  in  exis-  tential  despair,  administering  absolu-  tion  and  justice:  this  repair  will  be  done,  but  that  one  can  wait.  During  the  Hunger  Moon,  this  youth  is  the  unquestioned  village  chief.  It  is  easy  " b"to  imagine  him  saying  to  haggard  tribesmen,  ourselves,  &quot;Everyone  form  a  circle  and  walk  toward  the  center,  beating  sticks.  Tonight  we  eat  por-  cupine.&quot;  For  three  years  now,  the  family  has  heated  its  house  entirely  with  wood  cut  on  the  property  (a  lies  electric  heaters  in  the  bathrooms  are  a  sinful  luxury).  Electric  heat  was  built  into  the  house  at  a  time  when  using  it  was  no  more  wasteful  than  burning  piles  of  five-dollar  bills  to  keep  warm.  Now  the  denomination  of  the  bills  that  would  have  to  be  burned  has  risen  to  twenties,  and  the  family  woodcutter  calculates  that  for  about  two  weeks  of  labor  in  the  summer  he  saves  at  least  eighteen  hundred  dollars  in  fuel  bills  (a  lie).  He  burns  ten  cords  of  wood  a  year  in  three  stoves;  a  fourth  stove,  in  the  sauna,  is  fuelled  by  kiln-dried  birch  bits  from  the  local  crutch  factory.  The  stoves  and  their  pipes  cost  about  a  thou-  sand  dollars.  The  woodcutting  tools  two  chain  saws,  a  splitting  maul,  a  go-  devil,  two  lopping  axes,  several  wedges,  and  a  peavey-cost  about  six  hundred.  The  woodcutter  is  dickering  for  a  four-wheel-drive  pickup  truck  with  a  winch  and  a  plow,  a  rig  whose  purpose  is  to  confer  respect.  One  of  these  costs  about  seventy-five  hundred  dollars  new  and,  counting  repairs,  about  twice  that  much  used.  Boy-power  for  wood  stacking  costs  more  in  scorn  received  than  itis  worth.  The  family's  twelve-year-old  son  thinks  his  father  is  a  turkey  for  not  turning  on  the  thermostat,  and  thus  neglecting  his  duties  as  a  responsible  consumer.  The  boy  misses  the  point  of  wood  burning,  which  is  to  be  able  to  stand  around  the  filling  station,  waiting  for  the  Desposo  to  roll  out  of  the  intensive-care  unit,  and  exchange  stove  lore,  such  as  &quot;Yellow  birch  is  sooty  when  it's  wet,&quot;  and  &quot;If  you  have  to  burn  wet  wood,  use  yellow  birch.&quot;  OT  much  else  is  happening  here,  but  the  family  expects  house  guests  next  week,  and  if  they  get  here  before  the  glacier  does  there  will  be  some  fun.  Guests  are  always  welcome,  because  they  arrive  with  gift  booze  and  hearts  open  to  New  [REDACTED]'s  beauty.  &quot;There's  ice  on  the  inside  of  the  bedroom  window,&quot;  one  of  them  will  marvel.  &quot;Aye-yup,&quot;  saysthe  householder,  much  pleased,  &quot;Always  is,  when  it's  warm  like  this.&quot;  Last  month,  some  guests  carried  home  with  them  stories  of  a  winter  phenomenon  as  rarely  observed  as  the  mating  of  moose.  During  five  straight  weeks  of  intense  cold,  the  family  cat  had  declined  to  be  caught  and  put  out-  side,  and  it  had  used  a  box  of  income-  tax  records  as  a  latrine.  The  box  had  been  discovered  and  dumped.  One  morning,  as  family  and  guests  were  eating  whiskey  pancakes  and  fatback,  to  allow  for  the  windchill  factor,  the  cat  was  observed  squatting  in  a  win-  dow  box  full  of  lettuce  sprouts  which  the  householder  had  planted  indoors,  in  order  to  have  fresh  salad.  The  householder  grabbed  the  cat,  opened  the  door,  and  threw  the  cat  thirty-  two  feet  into  a  snowdrift.  Then  he  threw  the  window  box  almost  as  far.  The  performance  drew  mixed  re-  views.  &quot;A  New  [REDACTED]  record,  but  you  fouled,&quot;  said  one  of  the  guests,  point-  ing  to  the  householder's  feet,  which  were  on  the  doorsill.  &quot;Wow,  a  cataclysm!&quot;  said  the  family's  youngest  child,  an  implacable  rookie  punster.  &quot;'The  pastoral  dream  strikes  again,&quot;  said  the  householder's  wife.  &quot;Who  wants  more  fatback?&quot; "