 b"WHAT  I  most  often  think  about  when  I  am  lying  awake  in  the  night,  or  when  I  am  taking  a  long  automobile  trip  alone,  is  my  two  parents  and  my  maternal  grandfather.  I  used  to  suppose,  after  I  had  first  got  to  be  a  grown  man  and  had  first  man-  aged  to  get  away  from  [REDACTED],  that  those  two  parents  of  mine  thrusting  my  grandfather's  company  upon  me  as  they  did  when  I  was  growing  up,  and  my  company  upon  him  when  he  was  grow-  ing  very  old,  and  their  asking  the  two  of  us  to  like  it,  though  we  possessed  the  very  opposite  natures,  was  but  that  couple's  ruthless  method  of  disposing  of  the  two  of  us,  child  and  aging  par-  ent,  in  one  blow.  But  I  can  see  now-  from  the  vantage  point  of  my  own  late  middle  age-that  there  was  really  no  ruthlessness  in  it  on  their  part.  Because  1  realize  that  living  their  busy,  genteel,  contented  life  together  during  the  nine-  teen-twenties  they  didn't  have  the  slightest  conception  of  what  that  old  man  my  grandfather  was  like.  Or  of  what  that  boy,  their  son,  was  like  ei-  ther.  They  weren't  people  to  specu-  late  about  what  other  people  and  other  times  were  &quot;like.&quot;  They  knew  only  that  what  they  did  was  what  everybody  else  still  did  about  grandfathers  and  grandsons  in  or  about  the  year  1925-  in  and  around  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED].  The  fact  is,  my  two  parents  were  destined  to  go  to  their  graves  never  suspecting  that  they  had  put  a  grand-  father  and  a  grandson  in  so  false  a  position  with  each  other  that  the  boy  and  the  old  man  would  one  day  have  to  have  it  out  between  them.  Indeed,  they  would  go  to  their  graves  never  suspecting  that  long  before  either  of  them  had  ever  given  a  serious  thought  to  dying,  Grandfather  and  I  had  al-  ready  had  it  out  between  us  quite  bru-  tally  and  fatefully  andhad  it  out,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  in  the  front  hall  of  their  house  in  Acklen  Park,  in  [REDACTED].  It  happened  the  summer  when  my  grand-  father  was  seventy-nine  and  I  had  just  turned  eighteen.  Any  real  pretense  at  companionship  between  theold  man  and  me  came  to  an  abrupt  and  unhap-  py  end  that  summer.  It  left  me  with  complications  of  feeling  that  I  had  not  known  before.  For  my  grandfather,  of  course,  whose  story  this  is  meant  to  be-more  than  mine-it  did  something  considerably  worse  than  leave  him  with  complications  of  feeling.  What  actually  happened  was  that  he  turned  up  at  our  house  in  Acklen  Park  one  day  in  July,  driving  his  Dodge  touring  car  and  wearing  his  gabardine  topcoat  and  his  big  straw  hat,  arrived  there  unheralded  and  unannounced,  as  he  himself  was  fond  of  saying,  and  let  himself  in  our  front  door  with  his  own  key,  the  key  that,  despite  his  protests,  my  two  parents  always  insisted  upon  his  having.  And  what  he  found  inside  the  house  that  day  was  not  a  clean-cut  young  boy  whom  he  had  watched  growing  up  and  whom  his  daughter  and  son-in-law-away  then  on  a  short  summer  trip-had  left  at  home  to  see  after  the  premises.  He  found,  instead,  a  dishevelled,  disreputable-looking  young  fellow  of  eighteen  summers  who  was  hardly  recognizable  to  his  own  grand-  father,  a  boy  who  had  just  now  fran-  tically  pulled  on  his  clothes  and  who  instead  of  occupying  his  parents'  house  alone  was  keeping  a  young  girl  in  the  house  with  him,  a  girl  whom  he  had  hurriedly  hidden  at  the  first  sound  of  his  grandfather's  tires  in  the  driveway-hidden,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  in  the  big  oak  wardrobe  of  the  down-  stairs  bedroom  which  his  visiting  grand-  father  was  always  expected  to  occupy.  The  ensuing  confrontation  between  the  grandfather  and  the  grandson  seemed  on  its  surface  to  be  accidental  and  something  that  might  finally  be  forgotten  by  both  of  them.  But  it  was  not  quite  so  simple  as  that.  ..  .  The  old  man  and  his  grandson  were  never  quite  the  same  after  that  day-not  the  same  with  each  other  and  probably  not  the  same  within  themselves.  Whatever  their  old  relationship  had  been,  it  was  over  forever.  O  me  it  seems  natural  that  I  should  think  about  all  of  this  whenever  I  am  lying  awake  at  night  or  when  I  am  behind  the  wheel  of  my  car  on  some  endless  highway.  The  memory  of  it  raises  questions  in  my  mind  that  there  seem  to  be  no  answers  to,  and  those  are  inevitably  the  ques-  tions  one  entertains  at  such  times.  I  find  myself  wondering  why,  in  that  antediluvian  [REDACTED]  world  I  grew  up  in,  it  was  so  well  established  that  grandfathers  and  grandsons  were  to  be  paired  off  and  held  answerable  to  each  other  for  companionship;  why  it  was  that  an  old  graybeard  and  a  towheaded  little  boy,  in  that  day  and  age,  were  expected  to  be  more  companionable  even  than  fathers  and  sons  are  told  today  they  ought  to  be.  For  it  really  is  my  recollection  that  anywhere  one  turned  in  that  world  one  was  apt  to  see  a  bent  old  man  and  a  stiff-necked  little  boy  trudging  along  a  country  road  together  or  plodding  along  the  main  street  of  a  town.  The  world  I  am  speaking  of  isn't  the  hard-bitten,  Mon-  key  Trial  world  of  East  [REDACTED]  that  everybody  knows  about  but  agentler  world  in  Middle  [REDACTED]  and  more  particularly  the  little  region  around  [REDACTED]  which  was  known  fifty  years  ago  as  the  [REDACTED]  Basin  and  which  in  still  earlier  times,  to  the  first  settlers-our  ancestors-was  known  somewhat  romantically  perhaps,  and  ironically,  and  incorrectly  even,  as  the  Miro  District.  My  grandfather,  who  did  not  take  [REDACTED]  so  seriously  as  my  parents  did,  was  fond  of  referring  to  the  city  itself  as  the  Miro  District  (because  he  said  only  an  antique  Spanish  name  could  do  justice  to  the  grandeur  which  Nash-  villians  claimed  for  themselves).  Ac-  cording  to  Grandfather,  this  region  had  originally  been  so  called  in  honor  of  one  Don  Estevan  Miro,  last  of  the  Spanish  governors  of  Spanish  [REDACTED],  and  ac-  cording  to  this  same  knowledgeable  grandfather  of  mine,  the  entire  state  of  [REDACTED]  had  once  been  claimed  to  be  a  rightful  part  ofthat  province  by  both  the  French  and  the  Spanish  in  their  day  as  its  rulers.  He  used  often  to  say  to  me,  all  irony  about  grandeur  aside,  that  knowing  such  odd  pieces  of  history  about  the  place  where  one  lived  made  the  life  one  lived  there  seem  less  boring.  He  didn't  couch  it  quite  that  way.  He  would  not  of  course  have  used  the  word  &quot;boring.&quot;  It  wasn't  in  his  vo-  cabulary.  But  there  is  no  doubt  that's  what  he  meant.  And  I  used  to  try  to  imagine  why  it  was  that  when  he  was  scouting  through  the  low  ground  or  hill  country  west  of  the  [REDACTED]  River  during  the  Civil  War,  it  had  made  the  war  seem  less  hateful  to  him  at  times  and  less  scary  and  less  boring  for  him  to  know-or  to  believe-that  the  Spanish  and  the  French  had  once  held  title  to  what  was  by  then  his  own  country  or  that  the  Indians  had  once  held  that  land  sacred,  or  for  him  to  realize  whenever  he  came  in  to  Nash-  ville  that  the  site  of  the  old  citadel  itself,  Fort  Nashborough,  had  once  actually  been  known  merely  as  French  Lick.  Y  grandfather,  when  I  first  re-  member  him,  lived  over  in  the  next  county  from  us,  forty  miles  west  of  [REDACTED].  But  he  was  always  and  forever  driving  over  for  those  visits  of  his-visits  of  three  or  four  days,  or  " b"longer-transporting  himself  back  and  forth  from  Hunt  County  to  [REDACTED]  in  his  big  tan  touring  car,  with  the  canvas  top  put  back  in  almost  all  weather,  and  usually  wearing  a  broad-brimmed  hat-  a  straw  in  summer,  a  felt  in  winter-and  an  ankle-length  gabardine  topcoat  no  matter  what  the  season  was.  He  was  my  maternal  grandfather  and  was  known  to  everyone  as  Major  Basil  Manley.  Seeing  Major  Manley  like  that  at  the  wheel  of  his  tan  touring  car,  swinging  into  our  driveway,  it  wasn't  hard  to  imagine  how  he  had  once  looked  riding  horseback  or  muleback  through  the  wilds  of  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  when  he  was  a  young  boy  in  Forrest's  cavalry,  or  how  he  had  looked,  for  that  matter,  in  1912,  nearly  half  a  century  after  he  had  ridden  with  General  Forrest,  at  the  time  when  he  escaped  from  a  band  of  hooded  night  riders  who  had  kidnapped  him-him  and  his  law  part-  ner  (and  who  had  murdered  his  law  partner  before  his  eyes,  on  the  banks  of  Bayou  du  Chien,  near  Reelfoot  Lake).  Even  when  I  was  a  very  small  boy,  I  always  dreaded  the  sight  of  him  out  there  in  our  driveway  in  his  old  car  when  he  was  arriving  for  a  visit.  I  hated  the  first  sound  of  his  tires  in  the  gravel  as  he  came  wheeling  up  to  the  house  and  then  suddenly  bore  down  on  the  brakes  at  the  foot  of  our  front-  porch  steps.  I  dreaded  him  not  because  I  was  frightened  by  his  coming  or  by  the  history  of  his  violent  exploits,  which  I  knew  about  from  an  early  time,  but  because  I  was  aware  always  of  the  painful  hours  that  he  and  I  who  had  nothing  in  common  and  for  whom  all  our  encounters  were  a  torture  would  be  expected  to  put  in  together.  The  old  man  had  always  had  a  way  of  turning  up,  you  see-even  when  I  was  little  more  than  an  infant-just  when  it  suited  me  least,  when  I  had  other  plans,  whichmight  include  almost  anything  else  in  the  world  but  the  pres-  ence  of  a  grandfather  with  whom  it  was  intended  I  should  be  companion-  able.  Sometimes  he  would  go  directly  into  our  back  yard,  if  it  were  summer-  time,  without  even  removing  his  hat  or  his  gabardine  coat.  He  would  plant  one  of  the  canvas  yard  chairs  on  the  very  spot  where  I  had  been  building  a  little  airfield  or  ahorse  farm  in  the  grass.  Then  he  would  throw  himself  down  into  the  chair  and  undo  his  collar  but-  ton  andremove  his  starched  collar-  he  seldom  wore  a  tie  in  those  days-  and  next  he  would  pull  his  straw  hat  down  over  his  face  and  begin  his  in-  evitable  dialogue  with  me  without  our  having  exchanged  so  much  as  a  glance  or  a  how-do-you-do.  It  used  to  seem  to  me  he  only  knew  I  was  there  with  him  because  he  knew  I  was  required  to  be  there.  &quot;I  guess  you've  been  behaving  yourself,&quot;  he  said  from  under  his  hat,  &quot;the  way  a  [REDACTED]  boy  ought  to  be-  have  himself.&quot;  And,  of  course,  I  knew  well  enough  what  was  meant  by  that.  It  meant  I  was  some  kind  of  effemi-  nate  city  boy  who  was  never  willing  to  visit  his  grandfather  alone  in  the  coun-  try  and  who  could  never  comprehend  what  it  would  be  to  ride  muleback  through  the  wilds  of  [REDACTED]  Tennes-  see-either  in  pursuit  of  Yankee  ma-  rauders  or  in  flight  from  hooded  night  riders.  Looking  up  at  the  old  man  from  the  grass  beside  his  chair  (or  from  the  carpet  beside  his  platform  rocker  if  we  were  settled  in  his  downstairs  bed-  room),  I  thought  to  myself-thought  this,  or  something  like  it-Someday  you  and  I  will  have  to  have  it  out  be-  tween  us.  I  shall  have  to  show  you  how  it  is  with  me  and  how  I  could  never  be  what  you  are.  .  ..  I  often  looked  up  at  him,  wanting-I  know  now-to  say  something  that  would  insult  him  and  make  him  leave  me  alone  or  make  him  take  his  walking  stick  to  me.  The  trou-  ble  was,  of  course-and  I  seemed  to  have  sensed  this  before  I  was  school  age  even-that  we  couldn't  understand  or  care  anything  about  each  other.  Something  in  each  of  us  forbade  it.  It  was  as  though  we  faced  each  other  across  the  distasteful  present,  across  a  queer,  quaint  world  that  neither  of  us  felt  himselfa  part  of.  When  I  looked  up  at  him  while  we  were  talking,  often  out  in  the  back  yard  but  more  often  in  his  room,  I  could  never  think  exactly  what  it  was  about  him  that  I  hatedor  if  I  really  hated  him  at  all.  Yet  many  a  time  I  had  that  shameful  feeling  of  wanting  to  insult  him.  And  so  I  got  into  the  habitof  try-  ing  to  see  him  as  my  two  parents  saw  him.  That's  the  awful  part,  really.  I  would  look  at  him  until  I  sawhim  as  I  knew  they  saw  him:  an  old  country  granddaddy  who  came  to  town  not  " b"wearing  a  tie  and  with  only  a  bright  gold  collar  button  shining  where  a  tie  ought  to  have  been  in  evidence.  It  seems  shocking  to  me  nowadays  how  well  I  knew  at  that  tender  age  just  how  my  parents  did  surely  see  such  an  old  man  and,  indeed,  how  they  saw  all  else  in  the  world  about  us.  They  saw  everything  in  terms  of  Acklen  Park  in  the  city  of  [REDACTED]  in  the  [REDACTED]  Basin  in  Middle  [REDACTED]  in  the  old  Miro  District,  as  it  had  come  to  be  in  the  first  quarter  of  the  twentieth  cen-  tury.  I  suppose  it  was  my  knowing  how  Mother  and  Father  saw  the  other  grandfathers,  who  did  actually  live  with  their  families  in  the  Acklen  Park  neighborhood,  that  made  me  know  for  certain  how  they  saw  Major  Basil  Manley.  To  them,  those  other  grand-  fathers  seemed  all  elegance  while  he  seemed  all  roughness.  'Those  others  lived  quietly  with  their  sons  and  daugh-  ters  while  he  insisted  upon  living  apart  and  in  a  county  that  was  only  on  the  periphery  of  Middle  [REDACTED].  Those  other  grandfathers  were  a  part  of  the  families  who  had  taken  them  in.  ('They  had  managed  to  become  so  or  perhaps  had  always  been  so.)  When  you  saw  one  of  those  other  grandfathers  out  walking  with  a  little  grandson  along  [REDACTED]  End  Avenue,  it  was  apparent  at  once  that  the  two  of  them  were  made  of  the  same  clay,  or  at  least  that  their  mutual  aim  in  life  was  to  make  it  ap-  pear  to  the  world  that  they  were.  Sometimes  the  old  man  and  the  little  boy  walked  along  [REDACTED]  End  hand  in  hand  or  sometimes  with  their  arms  about  each  other,  theold  man's  arm  on  the  little  boy's  shoulder,  the  little  boy's  arm  about  the  old  man's  waist.  It  is  a  picture  that  comes  into  my  mind  almost  every  day  that  I  live.  HIS  ancient  and  well-established  practice  of  pairing  off  young  with  old  so  relentlessly  and  so  exclusively  had,  I  think,  as  one  of  its  results  the  marvel  that  men  over  fifty  whom  one  meets  in  [REDACTED]  nowadays  are  likely  to  seem  much  too  old-fashioned  to  be  believed  in  almost-much  too  formal  in  their  speech  for  any  modern  man,  much  too  stiff  in  their  manner  to  be  taken  seriously  at  all.  They  seem  to  be  putting  onan  act.  It  is  as  if  they  are  trying  to  be  their  grandfathers.  Either  that  or  these  grandsons  of  [REDACTED]  veterans  are  apt  to  have  become  pa-  thetic  old  rou\xc3\xa9s  and  alcoholics,  outra-  geously  profane  and  willing  to  talk  your  ear  off  in  the  country-club  bar-  usually  late  at  night-about  how  far  they  have  fallen  away  from  their  ideals,  about  how  very  different  they  are  from  the  men  their  grandfathers  were.  To  hear  them  talk,  one  would  actually  suppose  none  of  them  ever  had  a  fa-  ther.  One  gets  the  impression  that  they  only  had  grandfathers-elegant  grand-  fathers  born  before  1860.  What  is  more  to  the  point,  though,  is  that  this  business  of  pairing  off  bent  old  men  with  stiff-necked  little  boys  plainly  had  its  effect,  too,  upon  the  old  men-the  grandfathers  themselves.  For  when  finally  they  approached  their  last  years  they  often  became  absurd  mar-  tinets,  ordering  the  younger  men  and  boys  in  their  families  about  in  their  quavery  old  voices  (and  often  getting  laughed  at  behind  their  backs).  Or  some  among  these  very  same  old  men     who  had  once  stood  firm  at  Missionary  Ridge  or  had  fought  in  the  trenches  be-  fore  Petersburg  or,  like  Grandfather  Manley,  had  ridden  with  General  For-  rest  became  toward  the  very  end  as  thoroughly  domesticated  as  any  old  woman-could  be  seen  fussing  about  the  house  like  some  old  spinster  great-  aunt,  rearranging  the  furniture  or  washing  up  little  stacks  of  dishes,  for-  ever  petting  and  hugging  the  young  people  in  the  family  or  clucking  and  fretting  and  even  weeping  softly  when-  ever  the  young  people  didn't  behave  themselves  as  they  ought  to  do.  My  Grandfather  Basil  Manley  was  an  exception  to  all  of  this,  and  I  had  " b"been  fully  aware  of  the  fact  long  before  the  time  he  caught  me  and  my  girl  stay-  ing  in  his  room.  He  was  an  exception  in  the  first  place  because  he  refused  from  the  very  start  to  move  into  the  same  house  with  my  mother  and  father-at  the  time  when  he  was  widowed-or  even,  for  that  matter,  to  come  and  live  in  the  same  town  with  us.  He  had  re-  sisted  making  that  fatal  mistake  that  so  many  of  his  contemporaries  made-of  moving  in  with  their  children.  He  was  clearly  different  from  them  in  a  num-  ber  of  other  respects,  too,  but  it  must  have  been  that  first,  firm  refusal  of  his  to  move  in  with  us  that  allowed  him  to  think  for  a  few  years  that  he     M'mea  a~  could  altogether  escape  the  ignomini-  ous  fate-of  the  one  kind  or  the  oth-  er-which  his  contemporaries  had  to  endure.  He  did  not  turn  into  an  old  woman  and  he  did  not  try  to  play  the  martinet.  Except  for  those  relatively  brief  visits  of  his,  he  was  free  of  the  rules  and  mores  of  my  parents'  [REDACTED]  life.  After  three  or  four  days  spent  mostly  in  my  company,  he  would  be  off  again  to  his  farm  in  Hunt  County  and  to  the  &quot;primitive&quot;  life  he  lived  there.  If  it  was  hard  for  anyone  to  see  why  he  insisted  on  living  in  Hunt  County  when  he  could  have  lived  so  comfortably  in  [REDACTED],  I  at  any  rate  thanked  God  on  my  knees  that  he  had  made  that  choice  and  prayed  that  he  would  never  change  his  mind.  For  the  most  part,  he  went  on  living  in  the  drafty,  unheated  farmhouse  that  he  and  his  fatherbefore  him  had  been  born  in.  And  on  a  farm  where  both  cotton  and  tobacco  had  once  been  the  money  crops,  but  where  tomatoes,  strawberries,  and  corn  had  now  become  more  profitable.  There  was  no  prestige  or  tradition  about  the  kind  of  farming  he  did  over  there.  (It  was  somehow  felt  an  embarrassment  that  he  raised  only  tomatoes,  straw-  berries,  corn.  It  amounted  to  truck  farming,  though  we  did  not  even  say  the  word.)  And  certainly  there  was  no  romance  about  the  place  itself.  That  is  to  say,  his  farm  and  the  county  it  was  in  were  considered  somewhat  beyond  the  pale,  not  being  in  the  handsome,  bluegrass,  limestone  country  where  livestock  farms-and  particularly  horse  farms-made  the  landscape  a  joy  to  look  upon  and  where  the  people  had  al-  ways  held  themselves  well  above  other  mortal  Tennesseans.  He  preferred  to  go  on  living  over  there  even  after  my  father  hadbought  our  fine  house  in  Acklen  Park  and  set  aside  the  room  there  for  his  exclusive  occupancy.     T  will  be  useful  at  this  point  to  ex-  plain  that  before  that  day  when  I  hid  my  girl  in  the  wardrobe  there  ac-  tually  had  been  two  other  serious  and  quite  similar  face-offs  between  my  grandfather  and  me  and  useful  that  I  give  some  account  of  those  earlier  con-  frontations.  They  both  took  place  when  I  was  eighteen,  in  the  very  same  year  as  the  fateful  one.  And  on  both  of  those  occasions  Grandfather  stayed  on  in  the  house  afterward,  just  as  if  nothing  out  of  the  ordinary  had  happened.  This  was  so  despite  there  having  been  more  violent  interplay  between  us-verbal  and  otherwise-in  those  two  en-  counters  than  there  was  destined  to  be  in  the  last.  The  first  of  them  was  in  April  of  that  year.  My  parents  were  not  out  of  town  that  time.  Rather,  my  father  was  in  the  hospital  to  undergo  an  operation  on  his  prostate  gland.  He  went  into  the  hospital  on  the  Sunday  afternoon  be-  fore  the  Monday  morning  when  the  operation  was  scheduled.  Possibly  he  and  my  mother  regarded  the  operation  more  apprehensively  than  they  should  have.  My  mother  managed  to  obtain  a  room  next  to  his  in  the  hospital.  She  went  in  with  him  on  Sunday  in  order  to  be  near  him  during  that  night.  My  grandfather  had  of  course  been  noti-  fied  of  the  circumstances.  Mother  had  even  made  a  long-distance  telephone  call  from  [REDACTED]  to  Huntsboro.  And  " b"since  Grandfather  declined  still  to  have  a  telephone  in  his  house  or  to  let  the  lines  to  other  houses  go  across  his  land,  he  had  had  to  be  fetched  by  a  messen-  ger  from  his  farm  to  Central's  office  on  the  town  square.  That  was  on  Saturday  afternoon,  and  Mother  had  hoped  he  might  come  to  [REDACTED]  on  Sunday  and  stay  in  the  house-presumably  to  keep  me  com-  pany-at  least  until  Father  was  safely  through  the  operation.  But  theold  man  was  offended  by  everything  about  the  situation.  He  resented  being  sent  for  and  brought  to  the  telephone  office.  He  resented  having  to  hear  Mother's  in-  delicate  news  in  the  presence  of  Cen-  tral  herself  (a  local  girl  and  a  cousin  of  ours).  And  the  worst  of  it  was,  so  he  said  on  the  telephone  to  Mother,  he  didn't  believe  in  the  seriousness  of  the  operation.  Actually,  when  Mother  and  Father  had  previously  mentioned  to  him  the  possibility  of  such  surgery  he  had  insisted  that  no  such  operation  &quot;ex-  isted&quot;  and  that  the  doctor  was  pulling  Father's  leg.  I  was  told  this  afterward  by  my  father-long  afterward-who  said  the  old  man  had  clearly  resented  such  an  unseemly  subject's  being  re-  ferred  to  in  his  presence  by  his  daugh-  ter  or  even  by  his  son-in-law.  Anyhow,  my  mother  told  me  that  Grandfather  would  not  be  coming  to  stay  with  me  on  Sunday.  I  don't  know  whether  or  not  she  believed  it.  And  I  cannot  honestly  say  for  sure  whether  or  not  I  believed  he  wasn't  coming.  I  know  only  that  on  that  Sunday  after-  noon,  after  my  parents  had  left  for  the  hospital,  I  telephoned  two  of  my  friends,  two  Acklen  Park  boys  who  would  be  graduating  with  me  from  Wallace  School  that  June,  and  invited  them  to  come  over  and  to  bring  with  them  whatever  they  could  manage  to  filch  from  their  fathers'  liquor  closets.  Actually,  it  was  only  my  way  of  in-  forming  them  of  what  I  had  in  mind  for  that  Sunday  afternoon  and  evening,  because  I  knew  where  the  key  to  Fa-  ther's  closet  wasand  knew  there  was  more  than  enough  bourbon  whiskey  there  to  suffice  for  three  boys  on  their  first  real  binge.  Since  this  was  an  op-  portunity  we  had  all  been  contem-  plating  for  some  time,  my  invitation  was  only  a  matter  of  form.  I  heard  Grandfather  Manley  in  the  driveway  at  about  half  past  six.  In  fact,  I  had  lost  track  of  time  by  then.  We  had  been  gulping  down  our  whiskey  as  though  it  were  lemonade.  I  could  hard-  ly  stand  on  my  feet  when  he  came  into  the  breakfast  room,  where  we  were  seated  about  the  table.  I  had  made  a  stab  at  getting  up  when  I  first  heard  his  car  outside.  My  intention  was  to meet  him,  as  usual,  in  the  front  hall.  But  as  soon  as  I  had  got  halfway  up  I  felt  a  little  sick.  I  knew  I  would  be  too  unsteady  on  my  feet  toeffect  my  usual  sort  of  welcome  in  the  hall,  which  would  have  entailed  my  taking  his  bag  to  his  room  for  him  and  helping  him  off  with  his  topcoat.  Instead,  I  was  still  seated  at  the  table  when  he  stepped  into  the  breakfast-room  doorway.  I  did  manage  to  rise  from  my  chair  then,  scraping  it  crazily  along  the  linoleum  floor,  which,  at  any  rate,  was  more  than  the  other  two  boys  managed.  And  I  faced  him  across  the  gold  pocket watch  that  he  was  now  holding  out  in  his  open  palm  like  a  piece  of  incrimi-  nating  evidence.  Although  I  say  I  faced  him  acrossthe  watch,  his  eyes  were  not  really  on  me  when  he  spoke  but  on  the  other  boys  at  the  table.  &quot;It's  more  than  half  an  hour  past  my  suppertime,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  generally  eat  at  six.&quot;  That  is  how  I  can  account  for  the  time  it  was.  Drunk  as  my  two  friends  assuredly  were  and  difficult  as  they  undoubtedly  found  it  to  rise,  they  did,  when  Grand-  father  said  that  about  suppertime,  man-  age  to  rise  somehow  from  their  chairs  and  without  a  word  of  farewell  went  stumbling  out  through  the  kitchen  and  out  of  the  house.  Grandfather  then  turned  and  went  to  his  room,  giving  me  an  opportunity  to  put  away  the  liquor  and  the  glasses.  Or  I  suppose  that  was  his  purpose.  Per-  haps  he  had  only  gone  to  remove  his  topcoat  and  his  hat.  When  he  came  back,  I  had  not  stirred  but  still  sat  " b"there  with  one  hand  on  the  quart  bottle,  fully  intending  to  pour  myself  another  drink.  I  had  waited,  I  think,  with  the  intention  of  pouring  it  in  his  presence.  Looking  at  me,  he  said,  &quot;It's  a  fine  sort  of  company  you  are  keeping  nowadays  here  in  [REDACTED].&quot;  At  that,  I  took  up  the  bottle  and  began  pouring  whiskey  into  my  glass.  &quot;''They're  my  friends,&quot;  I  said,  not  looking  at  him.  He  stepped  over  to  the  table,  seized  the  bottle  by  its  neck  with  one  hand,  and  took  hold  of  my  glass  with  the  other.  But  I  held  on  firmly  to  each-did  so  for  several  moments,  that  is.  Together  we  were  supporting  both  glass  and  bottle  in  midair.  And  then  it  must  have  been  simultaneously  that  each  of  us  relinquished  his  hold  on  both.  The  glass  fell  to  the  table,  crashing  and  breaking  into  small  pieces  and  splash-  ing  its  contents  over  the  tabletop.  The  bottle  landed  sidewise  on  the  table,  spewing  out  whiskey  on  Grandfather  Manley's  trousers,  then  rolled  onto  the  floor,  coming  to  rest  there,  unbroken  but  altogether  empty.  Immediately  Grandfather  Manley  said,  &quot;Now  you  get  that  mess  cleaned  up.&quot;  And  he  went  off  through  the  house  to  his  room  again.  His  command  had  literally  a  sober-  ing  effect  upon  me,  as  probably  nothing  else  could  have-more  so,  certainly,  than  the  breakage  and  spillage  had.  Though  I  was  feeling  unsteady,  I  did  clean  up  the  tabletop  and  I  wiped  up  the  floor.  I  decided  to  take  the  frag-  ments  of  glass  and  the  empty  bottle  out  to  the  garbage  can  in  the  alley.  I  didn't  want  my  mother  to  see  any  of  it  and  to  raise  questions  when  she  came  home  on  Monday.  As  I  was  returning  from  the  garbage  can  to  the  house  through  the  dark  back  yard,  I  had  sudden  guilt  feelings  about  my  mother  and  father,  visualizing  them  in  the  hospital,  Father  lying  in  the  white  bed  and  Mother  sit-  ting  in  a  straight  chair  beside  him.  I  knew  that  I  had  to  go  to  my  grand-  father's  room  and  take  whatever  satis-  faction  I  could  from  the  scolding  I  fancied  he  would  surely  give  me.  I  found  him  in  his  room,  seated  in  his  platform  rocker,  which  like  all  the  other  furniture  in  the  room  was  made  of  golden  oak,  with  caning  in  the  seat  and  back.  He  sat  in  it  as  ifit  were  a  straight  chair,  with  one  of  his  long,  khaki-clad  legs  crossed  stiffly  over  the  other  and  one  high-topped  brown  shoe  sticking  out  assertively  into  the  room.  All  the  furniture  in  the  room  was  fur-  niture  that  he  had  brought  there,  at  my  mother's  urging,  from  his  house  in  Hunt  County.  It  was  in  marked  con-  trast  with  the  rest  of  the  furniture  in  our  house.  Mother  had  said,  however,  that  he  would  feel  more  comfortable  and  at  home  with  his  own  things  in  the  room,  and  that  he  would  be  more  likely  to  take  real  possessionof  it-which,  after  all,  was  what  she  and  Father  hoped  for.  I  suspect  they  thought  that  would  be  a  first  step  toward  moving  him  in  to  live  with  us.  In  the  end,  Mother  was  actual-  ly  disappointed  at  the  particular  pieces  he  chose  to  bring.  But  there  will  be  a  time  later  on  for  me  to  say  more  about  that.  Anyway,  there  he  was  in  his  rocker,  already  divested  of  his  starched  collar  and  of  the  vest  he  always  wore  under  his  gabardine  coat.  His  suspenders  were  loosened  and  hanging  down  over  the  arms  of  the  chair.  And  he  had  lit  his  first  cigarette  of  the  evening.  (He  had  given  up  his  pipe  at  the  time  of  his  es-  cape  from  the  night  riders  and  had  taken  up  cigarettes,  instead,  because  he  said  they  gave  more  relief  to  his  nerves.  He  had  given  up  his  beard  and  mus-  tache  then,  too,  because  he  couldn't  forget  how  awful  they  had  smelled  to  him  when  he  had  been  hiding  in  the  swamp  for  days  on  end  and  under  stagnant  water  for  many  hours  of  the  " b"time.)  I  came  into  the  room  and  stood  before  him,  my  back  to  the  great  gold-  en-oak  folding  bed,  which,  when  it  was  folded  away  against  the  wall,  as  it  was  now,  could  easily  be  mistaken  for  a  large  wardrobe  like  the  one  I  was  facing  on  the  other  side  of  the  room,  matching  it  almost  exactly  in  size,  bulk,  and  color.  I  stood  there  in  silence  for  sev-  eral  moments,  waiting  for  him  to  begin  the  kind  of  dressing  down  which  he  had  never  given  me  and  which  if  he  could  have  given  me  then  might  have  made  all  the  difference  in  the  world  in  our  future  relations-and  perhaps  our  lives.  For  a  while,  he  said  nothing.  Then  he  said,  &quot;I  don't  want  any  supper  to-  night.  If  the  cook  left  something,  you'd  better  go  eat  it.  Because  if  you  can  eat,  it  will  likely  do  you  good!&quot;  There  was  no  note  of  sympathy  in  his  voice-only  an  acknowledgment  of  my  condition.  But  I  could  tell  there  was  going  to  be  no  dressing  down,  either.  It  was  going  to  be  just  like  always  before  when  we  had  been  left  alone  together.  &quot;I  can't  eat  anything,&quot;  I  said.  And  I  began  to  feel  thatI  was  going  to  be  actively  ill.  But  somehow  I  was  able  to  control  and  overcome  that  feeling.  Then  I  began  to  feel  drunk  again,  as  drunk  as  I  had  been  when  he  first  came  in  on  us.  I  slumped  down  onto  a  leather  ottoman  and  sat  with  my  elbows  on  my  knees,  still  looking  at  him.  It  was  just  as  it  had  always  been  before.  We  had  nothing  to  say  to  each  other-nothing  we  could  say.  And  thinking  about  all  the  times  we  had  been  left  together  like  this  when  I  was  a  little  boy,  it  seemed  to  me  thatI  had  always  been  some-  what  drunk  whenever  he  and  I  had  had  to  talk,  and  had  always  been  un-  able  to  make  any  sense  at  all.  &quot;Tell  me  what  it  was  like,&quot;  I  sud-  denly  began  now  in  a  too  loud  voice.  'Tell  me  what  it  was  like  to  be  kid-  napped  by  those  night  riders  .  .  .  out  in  Lake  County.&quot;  He  sat  forward  in  his  chair  as  if  so  astonished  by  what  I  had  said  that  he  would  have  to  come  to  his  feet.  But  still  he  didn't  get  up,  and  I  went  on.  &quot;And  what  it  was  like  .  ..  to  see  Captain  Tyree  hanged  before  your  very  eyes.&quot;  I  was  hesitating  and  stam-  mering  as  I  spoke.  I  had  never  before  said  anything  like  this  to  him.  In  the  past,  you  see,  when  we  had  been  want-  ing  a  topic,  I  had  always  pressed  him  to  tell  me  about  the  Civil  War-not  because  I  cared  much  about  the  War  but  because,  as  I  realize  now  but  didn't  understand  then,  it  was  what  my  par-  ents  caredabout  and  were  always  tell-  ing  me  I  ought  to  get  him  totalk  about.  But  he  didn't  want  to  talk  about  the  War.  Not  in  a  serious  way.  He  would  say,  &quot;''There's  little  to  tell,  God  knows,&quot;  and  put  me  off  with  a  slapstick  anec-  dote  or  two,  about  shooting  a  man's  hat  off  outside  the  Gayoso  Hotel  during  the  raid  on  [REDACTED],  or  about  meet-  ing  General  Forrest  on  a  backcountry  road  when,  as  a  boy  of  sixteen  and  riding  bareback  on  a  mule,  he  was  on  his  way  to  enlist  in  Forrest's  own  crit-  ter  company,  and  how  General  Forrest  and  some  other  officers  had  forced  him  off  the  road  and  into  a  mud-  dy  ditch  and  didn't  even  look  back  at  him  until  he  yelled  out  after  them  ev-  ery  filthy  kind  of  thing  he  could  think  of,  &quot;But  since  I  was  a  mite  small  for  my  age,&quot;  he  would  say,  &quot;they  must  have  mistook  me  for  some  local  farm  boy.  Only  Forrest  himself  ever  looked  back-looked  back  with  that  sickly  grin  of  his.&quot;  And  then  he  was  sure  to  end  that  anecdote  saying,  &quot;Like-  ly  I'm  the  onliest  man  or  boy  who  ever  called  Bed-  ford  Forrest  a  son  of  a  bitch  and  lived.&quot;  That  was  not  the  kind  of  war  story  I  wanted,  of  course.  My  father,  who  read  Civil  War  history,  would,  in  my  presence,  try  to  draw  the  old  man  out  on  the  subject,  asking  him  about  Forrest's  strategy  or  whether  or  not  the  War  might  have  been  won  if  Jeff  Davis  had  paid  more  attention  to  the  &quot;43616e616461ern  theatre.&quot;  And  all  Grand-  father  Manley  would  say  was:  &quot;I  don't  know  about  any  of  that.  I  don't  know  what  it  matters.&quot;  But  that  Sunday  night  in  his  room,  instead  of  plaguing  him  to  talk  about  the  War,  as  I  had  always  previously  tended  to  do,  I  took  the  opposite  tack.  And  I  think  I  could  not  have  stopped  myself  from  going  on  even  if  I  had  wanted  to.  As  I  rattled  on,  I  felt  my  grandfather  looking  at  me  uncertainly,  as  though  he  were  not  sure  whether  it  was  I  orhe  that  was  drunk.  &quot;Tell  me  about  your  kidnapping,&quot;  I  said,  actually  wavering  on  the  big  leather  ottoman  as  I  spoke,  and  my  voice  rising  and  lowering-quite  beyond  my  control.  &quot;Or  tell  me  about  the  earthquake  in  1811  that  your  old  daddy  used  to  tell  you  about,  that  made  the  [REDACTED]  River  run  upstream  and  formed  Reel-  foot  Lake,  and  how  you  imagined  when  you  were  lost  in  the  swamp,  and  half  out  of  your  head,  that  you  could  see  the  craters  and  fissures  from  the  earthquake  still  there.&quot;  Suddenly  Grandfather  lit  his  second  cigarette,  got  upfrom  his  chair,  and  went  over  and  stood  by  a  window.  I  suppose  it  occurred  to  him  that  I  was  mocking  him,  though  I  couldn't  have  said,  myself,  whether  or  not  I  was.  &quot;'You're  all  worked  up,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;And  it's  not  just  that  whiskey  in  you.  Your  mother's  got  you  all  worked  up  about  this  damnable  operation  of  your  dad's.&quot;  " b"&quot;Tell  me  what  it  was  like,&quot;  I  be-  gan  again.  In  my  confused  and  intoxi-  cated  state,  my  whole  system  seemed  determined  to  give  it  all  back  to  him-  all  the  scary  stories  I  had  listened  to  through  all  the  years  about  the  night  riders  of  Reelfoot  Lake.  I  can  hear  myself  clearly  even  now,  sometimes  speaking  to  him  in  a  singsongy  voice  more  like  a  child's  voice  than  the  or-  dinary  man's  voice  I  had  long  since  ac-  quired.  &quot;Tell  me  what  it  was  like  to  wake  up  in  the  Walnut  Log  Hotel  at  Samburg,  [REDACTED].  .  ..  Tell  me  what  it  was  like  to  lie  in  your  bed  in  that  shackly,  one-story,  backwoods  hotel  and  have  it  come  over  you  that  it  was  no  dream,  that  hooded  men  on  horse-  back  filled  the  yard  outside,  each  with  a  blazing  pine-knot  torch,  that  there  really  was  at  every  un-  glazed  window  of  your  room  the  raw  rim  of  a  shotgun  barrel.&quot;  S  I  babbled  away,  it  was  not  just  that  night  but  every  night  that  I  had  ever  been  alone  in  the  house  with  him.  I  had  the  sensation  of  retching  or  of  actual-  ly  vomiting  not  the  whiskey  I  had  in  my  stomach  but  all  the  words  about  the  night  riders  I  had  ever  had  from  himand  had  not  known  how  to  digest-words  I  had  not  ever  wanted  to  hear.  My  confu-  sion  was  such  that  some  of  the  time  I  did  not  know  at  all  what  I  was  saying.  I  knew  only  that  this  was  the  beginning  of  my  freedom  from  him.  And  I  had  no  notion  of  why  it  should  be  so.  Only  now  and  then  a  vague  thought  or  an  image  took  shape  for  me-of  him  as  the  young  sol-  dier  on  horseback  orof  the  war  itself  that  he  would  not  reveal  to  us,  that  he  always  substituted  talk  about  the  night  riders  for.  But  now  I  would  not  have  to  have  any  of  the  night-rider  business  again.  I  was  giving  it  all  back.  And  asI  did  so,  how  nerve,  racking  my  voice  was,  almost  be-  yond  endurance-to  me  no  less  than  to  my  grandfather,  he  who  sat  before  me  in  the  bright  light  he  had  now  put  on  in  the  room,  wearing  his  rough,  coun-  try  clothes,  his  blue  shirt  and  khaki  trousers,  blinking  his  veiny  eyelids  at  me,  not  really  listen-  ing  any  longer  to  what  I  said.  He  was  thinking  then,  as  I  knew  he  had  always  thought:  You  don't  want  to  hear  such  stuff  as  that.  Not  from  me,  you  don't.  You  just  want  to  hear  yourself  sketching  in  my  old  stories,  giving  them  back  to  me.  It  makes  you  feel  good.  It  helps  you  hide  your  feelings  or  whatever  it  is  you've  always  wished  to  hide.  He  sat  before  me  blinking  and  thinking-or  one  process;  or  one  rhythm,  at  any  rate.  And  not  really  listening  to  me  at  all.  But  I  couldn't  stop  myself,  any  more  than  he  could  stop  me  with  his  blinking  or  with  the  twisting  back  and  forth  of  his  weak  chin  and  lean  jaw.  The  twisting  was  somehow  offensive  to  me.  It  was  something  I  had  seen  him  do  to  other  people  who  troubled  or  annoyed  him  in  some  way.  It  was  almost  as  if  he  were  chewing  tobacco  and  looking  for  a  place  to  spit-which  was  something  he  liked  to  boast  he  had  never  done.  And  I  heard  my  awful  childlike  voice  going  on.  It  was  as  though  it  were  not  mine  and  as  though  I  were  someone  hidden  on  the  far  side  of  the  room  from  us  in  the  big  oak  wardrobe  where  I  would  one  day  hide  that  girl.  But  my  voice  persisted.  I  went  on  and  on,  so  nervous  as  I  looked  into  his  white-blue  eyes  that  I  feared  I  would  burst  into  tears  or,  worse  still,  into  silly,  little-boy  laughter.  &quot;'Tell  how  they  ordered  you  and  Marcus  Tyree  out  of  your  beds,  though  you  each  slept  with  a  revolver  at  your  side,  ordered  you  up  from  your  straw  mattresses  on  those  homemade  bed-" b"steads  and  required  the  two  of  you  to  get  fully  dressed,  even  to  putting  on  your  starched  collars  and  your  black  shoestring  ties,  and  then  escorted  you  both  on  muleback,  at  gunpoint,  out  to  the  edge  of  the  bayou.&quot;  But  he  said  nothing.  He  only  kept  on  blinking  at  me.  And  the  bright  light  had  little  or  nothing  to  do  with  it,  In  recent  years,  he  had  always  blinked  at  me.  (When  I  was  fourteen,  when  I  was  sixteen,  when  I  was  eighteen.  Those  were  the  years  when  it  got  to  be  unbearable.)  Each  time  we  met,  I  pressed  him  to  tell  me  tales  about  his  war  exploits  and  the  suffering  he  had  endured.  (&quot;Ask  him!&quot;  my  father  had  said  to  me.  &quot;Ask  him!&quot;  my  mother  had  said  to  me.)  That  was  what  set  him  blinking  usually.  He  distrusted  all  garrulous  young  people.  Most  of  all,  those  who  asked  questions.  Why  heve  you  never  waited  and  allowed  me  to  speak  for  myself?  I  knew  he  was  thinking  but  didn't  say.  And  why  is  it  you've  never  opened  your  mouth  to  me  about  yourself?  He  had  always  thought  I  was  hiding  something.  Tonight,  his  suspicion  was  so  strong  I  could  hear  it  in  his  breath-  ing.  I  went  on  and  on.  &quot;Tell  me  again  how  you,  alone,  escaped!  How  the  night  riders  made  a  bonfire  on  the  banks  of  the  bayou  and  put  arope  around  Captain  Tyree's  neck,  tortur-  ing  him,  pulling  himup  and  letting  him  down  until  finally  he  said,  'Gen-  tlemen,  you're  killing  me.'  And  then  one  of  the  men  said,  'That's  what  we  aim  to  do,  Captain.'  And  they  yanked  him  up  for  the  last  time.  How  a  mo-  ment  later,  when  all  eyes  were  on  the  strung-up  body  of  your  friend,  your  law  partner,  your  old  comrade-in-arms  from  the  War  days  and  with  whom  you  had  come  there  only  as  'two  friends  of  the  court'  to  settle  old  land  disputes  made  not  by  any  man  on  earth  but  by  an  earthquake  a  hundred  years  be-  fore  almost  to  the  day,  how  at  that  moment,  really  in  one  of  your  wicked  explosions  of  temper-afterward  it  was  your  rage  you  remembered  most  clearly-you  vowed  to  survive  (vowed  it  in  your  rage)  and  your-  self  bring  to  justice  those  squatters-turned-  outlaws.  And  seeing  your  one  chance  to  escape,  you,  in  your  sav-  ing  rage,  dived  into  the  brackish  water  of  the  Bayou  du  Chien-you  a  man  of  sixty  and  more  even  then.  Tell  me  how  ...you  hid  under  the  log  floating  in  the  bayou  (some-  body  made  agavel  from  its  wood  for  you  later)  and  how  in  the  predawn  dark  they  filled  the  dead  log  you  were  under  full  of  buckshot,  supposing  it  was  you  that  was  dead  out  there,  supposing  it  was  your  body  they  saw  floating,  drifting  sluggishly  in  the  Bayou  du  Chien  toward  Reel-  foot  Lake.&quot;  Before  I  finished,  he  had  begun  to  laugh  his  sardonic  courtroom  laugh,  which  was  more  like  an  old  piece  of  farm  machinery  that  needed  oiling  than  like  most  human  laughter.  It  was  a  laugh  that  was  famous  for  having  de-  stroyed  the  case  of  many  a  courtroom  lawyer  in  Hunt  County-more  fre-  quently  than  any  argument  or  rhetoric  he  had  ever  employed.  I  had  heard  him  laugh  that  way  at  our  dinner  table,  too,  when  my  father  had  expressed  some  opinion  or  theory  that  Grandfather  had  not  agreed  with  but  that  he  knew  he  could  not  refute  with  logic.  And  I  went  on  long  after  I  knew  that  any  use  there  might  have  been  in  my  per-  formance  that  day  was  over.  Long  after  I  had  realized  that  if  my  per-  formance  were  going  to  have  any  ef-  fect  it  had  already  been  had.  At  some  point  I  could  see  that  he  was  no  longer  listening  and  that,  after  all,  the  victo-  ry  of  this  engagement  was  somehow  his.  Finally  I  was  silenced  by  his  si-  " b"lence.  Now  he  had  come  back  from  the  window  and  sat  down  in  the  chair  again  andwas  smiling  his  wickedest  courtroom  smile  at  me.  His  blueeyes  seemed  very  bright,  and  I  could  tell  that  for  a  few  moments  at  least  my  singsongrecounting  of  his  experiences  had  stirred  his  memory.  I  felt  that  if  I  encouraged  him  and  if  he  permitted  himself  he  would  even  now  take  up  where  I  had  left  off  and  describe  one  more  time  his  ten  days  of  wandering  in  the  swamp  after  his  escape  and  then  perhaps  his  finally  reaching  a  logging  road  on  high  ground  and  there  lap-  ping  up  water  like  an  Indian  out  of  the  hoofprints  of  horses,  because  he  knew  it  was  rainwater  and  pure,  and  then  the  ride  to  Tiptonville,  concealed  un-  der  the  hay  in  a  farmer's  wagon  bed.  And  at  last  the  trial  of  the  nine  night  riders.  He  loved  to  dwell  upon  the  fact  that  all  nine  men  were  proved  to  be  pre-  viously  convicted  criminals,  not  down-  trodden  backwoodsmen  whose  liveli-  hood  in  fishing  and  hunting  the  gov-  ernment  and  the  big  landowners  of  Lake  County  wished  to  take  away.  Perhaps  he  went  over  all  that  in  his  mind  for  a  few  moments,  but  what  his  wicked  smile  and  the  light  in  his  eyes  spoke  of  was  a  victory  he  was  revelling  in  at  that  present  moment.  My  long  spiel  about  the  night-rider  trouble  had  reflected  the  many  times  I  had  had  to  listen  to  his  account  of  it.  And  to  him,  I  somehow  understood  in  a  flash  of  in-  sight,  it  meant  above  all  else  whatwas  perhaps  dearest  to  his  soul  of  all  things  during  those  years.  It  meant  how  many  times  he  had  successfully  avoided  remi-  niscing  about  the  War.  In  retrospect,  I  can  see  that  it  had  become  almost  mechanical  with  him  to  answer  any  requests  I  made  for  stories  about  the  War  with  stories  about  his  adventures  at  Reelfoot  Lake.  For  a  number  of  years,  I  think,  he  had  tried  to  distract  me  with  just  any  of  his  old  stories  about  hunting  bear  or  deer  or  about  lawsuits  he  had  had  that  took  him  into  tough  communities  where  he  had  sometimes  to  fight  his  way  out  of  the  courtroom  and  sometimes  sharea  bed  in  a  country  hotel  with  a  known  murderer  whom  he  was  defending.  But  for  a  long  time  there  had  been  no  variations  in  his  re-  sponse.  I  did  not  know  then,  anddo  not  know  now,  at  what  moment  he  took  a  vow  never  to  talk  about  the  Civil  War  and  his  own  experiences  in  it,  of  whether  he  unconsciously  and  gradual-  ly  began  to  avoid  the  subject  with  members  of  his  family-after  he  had  already  ceased  talking  about  it  with  anybody  else.  But  from  his  smile  that  day  and  his  laughter,  which  I  had  only  before  heard  him  direct  at  my  parents,  I  began  to  sense  that  he  regarded  me  chiefly  as  their  agent  and  that  yielding  to  me  in  my  pressing  him  to  tell  me  about  his  war  would  be  the  first  chink  in  his  armor  of  resistance  to  my  parents  and  could  end  with  nothing  less  than  their  bringing  him  into  [REDACTED]  and  into  our  house  to  live.  At  last,  he  got  up  from  his  chair  again.  He  was  no  longer  smiling  at  me  but  clearly  he  was  no  longer  angry  with  me,  either.  And  at  the  end,  when  he  dismissed  me  from  his  room,  it  occurred  to  me  that  seeing  an  eighteen-  year-old  boy  drunk  was  nothing  new  to  a  man  of  his  experience  in  the  rough  sort  of  world  he  came  along  in  and  that  my  pilfering  my  father's  whiskey  while  he  was  in  the  hospital  seemed  to  him  almost  anatural  and  inevitable  mistake  for  a  boy  my  age  to  have  made.  &quot;'You've  had  a  hard  day,&quot;  he  said-  rather  sternly  but  not  more  so  than  if  he  had  been  correcting  me  about  some  show  of  badmanners.  &quot;Get  yourself  a  night's  sleep,  and  we'll  go  to  the  hospi-  tal  tomorrow  to  see  how  your  dad  is  making  out.  Seems  to  me  he  and  your  mama've  got  you  so  worked  up  there's  no  telling  what  you  might  have  done  if  I  hadn't  shown  up  as  I  did,  unheralded  and  unannounced.&quot;  T  was  hardly  six  weeks  later  that  we  had  our  second  run-in.  He  came  in  to  [REDACTED]  on  Decoration  Day,  when,  of  course,  the  [REDACTED]  veterans  al-  ways  held  their  most  elaborate  services  and  celebrations  out  at  the  State  Fair-  ground.  Father  and  Mother  had  gone  to  [REDACTED]  to  visit  Father's  sister  out  there  over  the  Decoration  Day  week-  end.  They  wouldn't  have  planned  to  go,  so  they  said,  except  that  Grand-  father  as  usual  swore  he  was  never  again  going  to  attend  a  [REDACTED]  Reunion  of  any  kind.  He  had  been  say-  ing  for  years  that  all  the  reunions  amounted  to  were  occasions  to  promote  everybody  to  a  higher  rank.  He  ac-  knowledged  that  once  upon  a  time  he  had  been  a  party  to  this  practice.  He  had  been  so  for  many  years,  in  fact.  But  enough  was  enough.  It  was  one  thing  to  promote  men  like  himself  who  had  been  private  soldiers  to  the  rank  of  captain  and  major  but  quite  another  to  make  them  colonels  and  generals.  They  had  voted  him  his  majority  back  in  the  years  before  his  kidnapping  by  the  night  riders.  But  since  the  experience  of  that  abduction  by  those  murderous  backwoodsmen  he  had  never  attended  another  [REDACTED]  Reunion.  For  more  than  a  dozen  years  now  he  had  insisted  that  it  would  not  be  possible  for  him  to  pass  in  through  the  Fair-  ground  gates  on  any  Decoration  Day  without  being  sure  to  come  out  with  the  rank  of  colonel.  He  could  not  countenance  that.  And  he  could  not  countenance  that  gathering  of  men  each  year  to  repeat  and  enlarge  upon  reminiscences  of  something  that  he  was  beginning  to  doubt  had  ever  had  any  reality.  From  the  first  moment  after  I  had  put  my  parents  on  the  train  for  [REDACTED],  I  think  I  knew  how  that  weekend  was  going  to  go.  I  would  not  have  admitted  it  to  myself  and  didn't  admit  it  for  many  years  after-  ward.  I  suspect,  too,  that  from  the  time  some  weeks  earlier  when  he  had  heard  of  my  parents'  plans  to  go  to  [REDACTED]-that  is,  assuming  that  he  would  not  be  coming  in  for  the  Re-  union-Grandfather  must  also  have  had  some  idea  of  how  it  might  go.  Look-  ing  back,  it  seems  almost  as  if  he  and  I  were  plotting  the  whole  business  together.  It  didn't  of  course  seem  that  way  at  the  time.  Naturally,  I  can  only  spec-  ulate  on  how  it  seemed  for  him,  but  he  had  made  more  than  one  visit  to  Nash-  ville  since  the  day  he  found  me  there  drinking  with  my  friends,  and  I  had  observed  a  decided  change  in  him-  in  his  attitude  towardme,  that  is.  On  one  occasion  he  had  offered  me  a  cigarette,  which  was  the  next  thing,  it  seemed  to  me  then,  to  offering  me  a  drink.  I  knew,  of  course,  that  Grand-  father  had,  at  one  time  or  another,  used  tobacco  in  most  of  its  forms.  And  we  all  knew,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  that  when  he  closed  the  door  to  his  room  at  night  he  nearly  always  poured  him-  self  a  drink-poured  it  into  a  little  collapsible  tumbler  that,  along  with  his  bottle  of  sour  mash,  he  had  brought  with  him  in  his  Gladstone  bag.  His  drinking  habits  had  never  been  exactly  " b" a  secret,  though  he  seldom  made  any  direct  reference  to  them  except  in  cer-  tain  stories  he  told.  And  whatever  changes  there  were  in  his  style  during  his  very  last  years,  his  drinking  habits  never  changed  at  all-not,  I  believe,  from  the  time  when  he  was  a  young  boy  in  the  [REDACTED]  Army  until  the  day  he  died.  It  is  true  that  I  often  smelled  liquor  on  his  breath  when  he  arrived  at  our  house  for  a  visit,  but  I  believe  that  was  because  he  made  a  habit  of  having  a  quick  one  when  he  stopped  along  the  way  to  rest  and  to  relieve  himself  at  the  roadside.  Moreover,  that  was  only  like  the  drink  he  had  in  his  room  at  night-for  his  nerves.  I  believe  the  other  drinking  he  had  done  in  his  life-  time  consisted  entirely  of  greatbouts  he  had  sometimes  had  with  groups  of  men  on  hunting  trips,  often  as  not  in  that  very  region  around  Reelfoot  Lake  where  he  had  witnessed  the  torture  and  strangulation  of  his  old  comrade-  in-arms  and  law  partner  and  where  he  had  then  wandered  for  ten  nights  in  the  swampy  woodland  thereabouts  (he  had  regarded  it  as  unsafe  to  travel  by  day  and  unsafe  to  knock  on  any  cabin  door,  lest  it  be  the  hideaway  of  one  of  the  night  riders),  wandered  without  food  and  without  fresh  water  to  drink,  and  suffering  sometimes  from  halluci-  nations.  I  feel  that  I  must  digress  here  in  order  to  say  a  few  things  about  those  hallucinations  he  had,  which  must  ac-  tually  have  been  not  unlike  de-  lirium  tremens,  and  about  im-  pressions  that  I  myself  had  of  that  country  around  the  lake  when  I  visited  it  as  a  child.  As  a  very  young  child-no  more  than  three  or  four  years  old-  I  had  been  taken  on  a  duck-  hunting  trip  to  the  lake  with  Fa-  ther  and  Grandfather  and  a  party  of  men  from  Hunt  Coun-  ty.  I  didn't  go  with  them,  of  course,  when,  attired  in  their  grass  hats  and  grass  skirts  and  capes-for  camouflage-they  took  up  their  positions  in  the  marshlands.  I  was  left  in  the  hunting  lodge  on  the  lake's  edge  in  the  care  of  the  Negro  man  who  had  been  brought  along  to  do  the  cooking.  I  don't  re-  member  much  about  the  days  or  the  nights  of  that  expedition.  I  must  have  passed  them  comfortably  and  happily  enough.  All  I  remember  very  clear-  ly  is  what  seemed  the  endless  and  desolate  periods  of  time  I  spent  dur-  ing  the  early-morning  hours  and  the  twilight  hours  of  each  day  of  our  stay  there,  all  alone  in  the  lodge  with  Thomas,  the  cook.  As  I  sat  alone  on     the  screened  porch,  which  went  all  the  way  round  that  little  batten-board  lodge  (of  no  more  than  three  orfour  rooms  and  a  loft),  and  listenedto  Thomas's  doleful  singing  in  the  kitch-  en,  all  I  could  see  was  the  dark  water  of  the  lake  on  one  side  and  of  the  bayou  on  the  other,  with  the  cypress  stumps  and  other  broken  trees  rising  lugubriously  out  of  the  water  and  the  mysterious,  deep  woods  of  the  bot-  tomlands  beyond  on  the  horizon.  It  seemed  to  me  that  I  could  see  for  miles.  And  the  fact  was,  the  lodge  being  built  high  upon  wooden  pilings,  it  was  indeed  possible  to  see  great  dis-  tances  across  the  lake,  which  was  five  miles  wide  in  places.  During  those  hours  on  the  screened  porch,  I  would  think  about  the  tales  I  had  heard  the  men  tell  the  night  before  when  they  were  gathered  around  the  iron  stove  and  I  was  going  off  to  sleep  on  my  cot  in  a  far  corner  of  the  room.  I  suppose  the  men  must  have  been  having  their  drinks  then.  But  I  can't  say  that  I  remember  the  smell  of  al-  cohol.  All  the  smells  there  in  that  place  were  strange  to  me,  though-the  smell  of  the  water  outside,  the  smell  of  the  whitewash  on  the  vertical  boarding  on  the  lodge,  and  the  smell  of  the  musty  rooms  inside  the  lodge,  which  stood  empty  most  of  the  year.  The  tales  the  men  told  were  often  connected  with  the  night-rider  trouble.  Others  were  old  tales  about  the  New  537061696e  Earthquake  that  had  formed  the  lake  more  than  a  hundred  years  before.  Some  of  the  men  told  old  folktales  about  prehistoric  monsters  that  rose  up  out  of  the  lake  in  the  dark  of  the  moon.  I  don't  recall  my  father's  contributing  to  this  talk.  My  memory  is  that  he  sat  some-  what  outside  the  circle,  look-  ing  on  and  listening  appre-  ciatively  to  the  talk  of  those  older  men,  most  of  whom  had  probably  never  been  out-  side  the  state  of  [REDACTED],  unless  it  was  to  go  a  little  way  up  into  [REDACTED]  for  whiskey.  But  my  Grand-  father  Manley  contributed  his  full  share.  And  everyone  listened  to  him  with  close  attention.  He  spoke  with  an  authority  about  the  lake,  of  course,  that  none  of  the  others  quite  had.  When  those  other  men  told.  their  stories  about  prehistoric  monsters  rising  from  the  lake,  one  felt  almost  that  Grandfather  when  he  emerged  from  his  ten  days  in  the  swampland,  according  to  his  own  account,  must  have  looked  and  smelled  like  just  such  a  prehistoric  monster.  To  me  the  scariest  of  his  talk  was  that  about  some  of  the  hallucinations  he  had,  " b"hallucinations  about  the  hooded  men  mounted  on  strange  animals  charging  toward  him  like  the  horsemen  of  the  Apocalypse.  But  almost  as  frightening  as  his  own  reminiscences  were  the  ac-  counts  he  had  heard  or  read  of  that  earthquake  that  made  the  lake.  The  earthquake  had  begun  on  De-  cember  16,  1811,  and  the  sequence  of  shocks  was  felt  as  far  away  as  [REDACTED]  and  Baltimore  and  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED].  Upriver,  at  New  537061696e,  [REDACTED],  nearly  the  whole  town  crum-  bled  down  the  bluffs  and  into  the  river.  The  shocks  went  on  for  many  days-even  for  several  months-and  in  be-  tween  the  shocks  the  earth  vibrated  and  sometimes  trem-  bled  for  hours  on  end  &quot;like  the  flesh  of  a  beef  just  killed.&quot;  Men  and  women  and  children,  during  the  first  bad  shocks,  hung  on  to  trees  like  squirrels.  In  one  case,  a  tree  &quot;infest-  ed  with  people&quot;&quot;  was  seen  to  fall  across  a  newly  made  ravine,  and  the  poor  wretches  hung  there  for  hours,  until  there  was  a  remission  in  the  earth's  undulation.  Whole  families  were  seen  to  disappear  into  round  holes  thirty  feet  wide,  and  the  roaring  of  the  upheaval  was  so  loud  that  their  screams  could  not  be  heard.  Between  [REDACTED]  and  St.  Louis,  the  river  foamed  and  in  some  places  the  current  was  observed  to  have  reversed  and  run  upstream  for  several  hours.  Everywhere,  the  quake  was  accom-  panied  by  a  loud,  hoarse  roaring.  And  on  land,  where  fissures  and  craters  ap-  peared,  a  black  liquid  was  ejected  some-  times  to  a  height  of  fifteen  feet  and  subsequently  fell  in  a  black  shower,  mixed  with  the  sand  that  it  had  forced  up  along  with  it.  In  other  places,  the  earth  burst  open,  and  mud,  water,  sandstone,  and  coal  were  thrown  up  the  distance  of  thirty  yards.  Trees  ev-  ery  where  were  blown  up,  cracking  and  splitting  and  falling  by  the  thousand  at  a  time.  It  was  reported  that  in  one  place  the  black  liquid  oozed  out  of  the  ground  to  the  height  of  the  belly  of  a  horse.  Grandfather  had  heard  or  read  somewhere  that  John  James  Audubon  had  been  caught  in  some  of  the  later,  less  violent  shocks  and  that  his  horse  died  of  fright  with  him  sitting  it.  Num-  bers  of  people  died,  of  course,  on  the  river  as  well  as  on  the  land,  and  many  of  those  who  survived  were  never  afterward  regarded  as  possessing  their  right  senses.  Among  the  hallucinations  that  my  grandfather  had  while  wandering  in  the  low  ground  after  his  escape  was  that  that  earthquake  of  a  hundred  years  before-almost  to  the  day  of  the  month-had  recurred,  commenced  again,  or  that  he  was  living  in  that  earlier  time  when  the  whole  earth  seemed  to  be  convulsed  and  its  surface  appeared  as  it  must  have  in  primordial  times.  And  he  imagined  that  he  was  there  on  that  frontier  in  company  with  the  ragged  little  bands  of  Frenchmen  and  Spaniards  and  newly  arrived  American  settlers,  all  of  whose  settle-  ments  had  vanished  into  the  earth,  all  of  them  in  flight,  like  so  many  Adams  and  Eves,  before  the  wrath  of  their  Maker.  My  father  told  me  more  than  one  time-again,  long  after  I  was  grown-that  it  was  only  after  Grandfather  Manley  had  had  a  few  drinks  and  was  off  somewhere  with  a  group  of  men  that  he  would  describe  the  time  of  wandering  in  the  swamps  and  de-  scribe  his  hallucinations  about  the  earth-  quake.  And  I  myself  heard  him  speak  of  those  hallucinations,  when  I  was  at  the  lodge  with  them  and  was  supposed  to  be  asleep  in  my  cot,  heard  him  speak  of  them  as  though  they  were  real  events  he  had  experienced  and  heard  him  say  that  his  visions  of  the  earthquake  were  like  a  glimpse  into  the  eternal  chaos  we  live  in,  a  glimpse  no  man  should  be  permitted,  and  that  after  that  all  of  his  war  experiences  seemed  small  and  insignificant  matters-as  nothing.  And  it  was  after  that,  of  course,  that  he  could  never  bring  himself  to  go  back  to  those  Reunions  and  take  part  in  those  reminiscences  with  the  other  old  sol-  diers  of  events  so  much  magnified  by  them  each  year  or  take  part  in  their  magnification  of  their  own  roles  by  advancing  themselves  in  rank  each  year.  Grandfather  could  only  confide  those  feelings  of  his  to  other  men.  He  would  only  confide  them  when  he  had  a  little  whiskey  in  him.  And  what  is  important,  too,  is  that  he  only  drank  alone  or  in  the  company  of  other  men.  He  abhorred  what  my  father  and  moth-  er  had  come  to  speak  of  in  the  nineteen-  twenties  as  social  drinking.  Drinking  liquor  was  an  evil  and  was  a  sign  of  weakness,  he  would  have  said,  and  just  because  one  indulged  in  it  oneself  was  no  reason  to  pretend  to  the  world  that  there  was  virtue  in  it.  T  hat,  to  him,  was  hypocrisy.  Drinking  behind  closed  doors  or  in  a  secluded  hunting  lodge,  though  one  denounced  it  in  public  as  an  evil  practice,  signified  respect  for  the  public  thing,  which  was  more  im-  portant  than  one's  private  character.  It  signified  genuine  humility.  And  so  it  was,  I  must  suppose,  that  he  in  some  " b"degree  approved  of  the  kind  of  drink-  ing  bout  he  had  caught  me  in.  And  his  approval,  I  suppose,  spoiled  the  whole  effect  for  me.  It  put  me  in  the  position,  as  I  understand  it  now,  of  pretending  to  be  like  the  man  I  felt  myself  alto-  gether  unlike  and  alien  to.  And  so  it  was  that  the  circumstances  he  found  me  in  were  quite  different  on  that  inevitable  Decoration  Day  visit  of  his.  My  parents  were  no  sooner  aboard  the  train  for  [REDACTED]  that  Friday  night  than  I  had  fetched  a  certain  ac-  quaintance  of  mine  named  Jeff  Patter-  son-he  was  older  than  I  and  had  fin-  ished  his  second  year  at  Vanderbilt-  and  together  we  had  picked  up  two  girls  we  knew  who  lived  on  Eighth  Avenue,  near  the  Reservoir.  We  went  dancing  at  a  place  out  on  Nine  Mile  Hill.  We  were  joined  there  by  two  other  couples  of  our  acquaintance,  and  later  the  eight  of  us  came  back  to  Acklen  Park.  (I  must  say  that  I  was  much  more  experienced  with  girls  by  that  age  than  I  was  with  liquor.)  We  hadhad  other,  similar  evenings  at  the  houses  of  the  parents  of  the  two  other  boys  who  joined  us  that  night,  but  until  then  I  had  never  been  so  bold  as  to  use  my  parents'  house  for  such  pur-  poses.  The  girls  we  had  with  us  were  not  the  kind  of  girls  such  a  boy  as  I  was  would  spend  any  time  with  nowadays.  That  is  why  this  part  of  the  story  may  be  difficult  for  people  of  a  later  genera-  tionto  understand.  With  one's  real  girl,  in  those  days,  a  girl  who  attended  Ward-Belmont  School  and  who  was  enrolled  in  Miss  Amy  Lowe's  dancing  classes,  one  might  neck  in  the  back  seat  of  a  car.  The  girl  might  often  respond  too  warmly.  But  it  was  one's  own  manliness  that  made  one  overcome  one's  impulse  to  possess  her  and,  most  of  all,  overcome  her  impulse  to  let  herself  be  possessed  before  taking  the  marriage  vow.  I  am  speaking  of  decent  boys  and  girls,  of  course,  and  I  ac-  knowledge  that  even  among  decent  or  &quot;nice&quot;&quot;  young  people  of  that  day  there  were  exceptions  to  the  rule.  One  knew  of  too  many  seven-month  babies  to  have  any  doubt  of  that.  Still,  from  the  time  one  was  fourteen  or  fifteen  in  [REDACTED]  one  had  to  know  girls  of  various  sorts  and  one  had  to  have  a  place  to  take  girls  of  &quot;the  other  sort.&quot;  No  one  of  my  generation  would  have  been  shocked  by  the  events  of  that  evening,  'Thefour  couples  went  to  bed-and  finally  slept-in  the  four  bedrooms  on  the  second  floor  of  my  parents'  house  in  Acklen  Park.  I  had  never  before  brought  such  a  party  to  our  house,  and  I  gave  no  thought  to" b"how  I  would  clean  up  the  place  after-  ward  or  how  I  would  conceal  what  had  gone  on  there.  It  was  only  a  few  minutes  past  seven  the  next  morning  when  I  heard  Grandfather's  car  outside  in  the  drive-way.  I  was  at  once  electrified  and  paralyzed  by  the  sound.  Lying  there  in  my  own  bed  with  that  girl  beside  me,  and  with  the  other  couples  still  asleep  in  the  other  rooms,  I  had  a  vision  of  our  big,  two-story  brick  house  as  it  ap-  peared  from  the  outside  that  May  morning,  saw  the  details  of  the  stone  '  quoins  at  the  four  corners  of  the  house,  the  heavy  green  window  blinds  and  the  keystones  above  the  windows,  even  the  acanthus  leaves  in  the  capitals  of  the  columns  on  the  front  porch.  I  saw  it  all  through  my  grandfather's  sharp  little  eyes  as  he  turned  into  the  gravel  driveway,  and  saw  through  his  eyes  not  only  my  parents'  car,  which  I  had  care-lessly  left  out  of  the  garage,  but  the  cars  also  of  the  two  other  boys  who  had   joined  us,  all  three  cars  sitting  out  there  in  the  driveway  on  Sunday  morning,  as  if  to  announce  to  him  that  some  kind  of  party-and  even  what  kind  ofparty,   probably-was  going  on  inside.  He  didn't  step  into  his  room  to  set   down  his  Gladstone  bag.  I  heard  him  drop  it  on  the  floor  in  the  front  hall  and  then  I  heard  his  quick  footsteps  on  the  long  stairway.  Then  I  heard  him  open-  ing  the  doors  to  all  the  bedrooms.  (We  had  had  the  decency  to  close  ourselves  off  in  separate  rooms.)  He  opened  my  door  last,  by  design  I  sup-  pose.  I  was  lying  on  my  stomach  and  I  didn't  even  lift  my  head  to  look  at  him.  But  I  knew  exactly  how  he  would  appear  there  in  the  doorway,  still  wearing  his  long  coat  and  his  summer  straw  hat.  That  was  the  last  thought  or  the  last  vision  I  indulged  in  before  I  felt  the  first  blow  of  his  walk-  ing  stick  across  my  buttocks.  At  last  he  had  struck  me!  'That  was  what  I  thought  to  myself.  By  the  time  I  felt  the  second  blow  from  his  stick  I  had  realized  thatbe-  tween  the  two  blows  he  delivered  me  he  had  struck  one  on  the  buttocks  of  the  girl  beside  me.  By  the  time  he  had  struck  the  girl  a  second  time  she  had  begun  screaming.  I  came  up  on  my  elbows  and  managed  to  clamp  my  hand  over  her  mouth  to  keep  the  neighbors  from  hearing  her.  He  left  us  then.  And  over  his  shoulder,  as  he  went  striding  from  the  room,  he  said,  &quot;I  want  you  to  get  these  bitches  out  of  this  house  and  to  do  so  in  one  hell  of  a  hurry!&quot;  He  went  back  into  the  hallway,  and  then  when  I  had  scrambled  out  of  bed  I  saw  him,  to  my  baffling  chagrin  and  un-  accountable  sense  of  humiliation,  hur-  rying  into  the  other  rooms,  first  one  and  then  another,  and  delivering  blows  to  the  occupants  of  those  other  beds.  Some  of  the  others,  I  suppose,  had  heard  him  crack  the  door  to  their  rooms  earlier  and  had  crawled  out  of  bed  be-  fore  he  got  there.  But  I  heard  himand  sawhim  wielding  his  stick  against  Jeff  Patterson's  backside  and  against  the  little  bottom  of  the  girl  beside  him.  Finally-still  wearing  his  hat  and  his  gabardine  coat,  mind  you-he  passed  through  the  hall  again  and  toward  the  head  of  the  stairs.  I  was  standing  in  the  doorway  to  my  room  by  then,  but  clad  only  in  my  underwear  shorts.  As  he  went  down  the  stairsteps  he  glanced  back  at  me  and  spoke  again:  &quot;You  get  those  bitches  out  of  your  mother's  house  and  you  do  it  in  one  hell  of  a  hurry.&quot;  Even  before  I  was  able  topull  on  my  clothes,  all  four  of  the  girls  were  fully  dressed  and  scurrying  down  the  stairs,  followed  immediately  by  the  three  boys.  I  came  to  the  head  of  the  stairs  and  stood  there  somewhat  be-  mused,  looking  down.  The  girls  had  gone  off  into  the  front  rooms  down-  stairs  in  search  of  certain  of  their  possessions.  I  heard  them  calling  to  each  other  desperately:  &quot;I  left  my  lip-  stick  right  here  on  this  table!&quot;  And  &quot;Oh,  God,  where's  my  purse?&quot;  And  &quot;Where  in  the  world  are  my  pumps?&quot;  I  realized  then  that  one  of  them  had  gone  down  the  stairs  barefoot,  and  simultaneously  I  saw  Grandfather  Manley  mov-  ing  by  the  foot  of  the  stairs  and  toward  the  living  room.  I  descended  slowly,  listen-  ing  to  the  voices  in  the  front  room.  First  there  had  come  a  little  shriek  from  one  of  the  girls  when  Grandfather  entered.  Then  I  heard  his  voice  reassuring  them.  By  the  time  I  reached  the  living-  room  doorway,  he  was  assisting  them  in  their  search,  whereas  the  three  boys  only  stood  by,  watching.  It  was  he  him-  self  who  found  that  little  purse.  Al-  ready  the  four  girls  seemed  completely  at  ease.  He  spoke  to  them  gently  and  without  contempt  or  even  condescen-  sion.  The  girl  who  had  been  my  date  left  with  the  others,  without  either  of  us  raising  the  question  of  whether  or  not  I  might  see  her  home.  As  they  went  out  through  the  wide  front  door  the  four  girls  called  out  &quot;Goodbye!&quot;  in  cheerful  little  voices.  I  opened  my  " b"mouth  to  respond,  but  before  I  could  make  a  sound  I  heard  Grandfather  answering,  &quot;Goodbye,  girls.&quot;  And  it  came  over  me  that  it  had  been  to  him,  not  me,  they  were  calling  goodbye.  When  he  and  I  were  alone  in  the  hall,  he  said,  &quot;And  now  I  reckon  you  real-  ize  what  we've  got  to  do.  We've  got  to  do  something  about  those  sheets.&quot;  It  is  a  fact  that  he  and  I  spent  a  good  part  of  that  day  doing  certain  cleanup  jobs  and  employing  the  electric  iron  here  and  there.  I  can't  say  it  drew  us  together,  though,  or  made  any  sort  of  bond  between  us.  Perhaps  that's  what  he  imagined  the  result  would  be.  But  I  never  imagined  so  for  a  moment.  Though  he  and  I  were  of  the  same  blood,  we  had  parted  company,  so  to  speak,  before  I  was  born  even,  and   there  was  some  divisive  thing  between  us  that  could  never  be  overcome.  Per-  haps  I  felt  that  day  that  it  was  my  parents,  somehow,  who  would  forever  be  a  wall  between  us,  and  that  once  any  people  turned  away  from  what  he  was,  as  they  had  done,  then  that-  whatever  it  was  he  was-was  lost  to  them  and  to  their  children  and  to  their  children's  children  forever,  But  I  can-  not  say  definitely  that  I  felt  anything  so  certain  or  grand  that  day.  I  cannot  say  for  sure  what  I  felt  except  that  when  he  spoke  with  such  composure  and  assurance  to  those  girls  in  my  parents'  living  room,  I  felt  that  there  was  nothing  in  the  world  he  didn't  know  and  hadn't  been  through.  As  he  and  I  worked  away  at  clean-  ing  up  the  bedrooms  that  morning,  I  asked  myself  if  his  knowing  so  well  how  to  speak  to  those  girls  and  if  the  genuine  sympathy  and  even  tenderness  that  he  clearly  felt  toward  them  meant  perhaps  that  his  insistence  upon  living  alone  in  that  old  house  over  in  Hunt  County  suggested  there  were  girls  or  women  in  his  life  still.  Whatever  else  his  behavior  that  day  meant,  it  meant  that  the  more  bad  things  I  did  and  the  worse  they  were,  then  the  better  he  would  think  he  understood  me  and  the  more  alike  he  would  think  we  were.  But  I  knew  there  must  yet  be  some-  thing  I  could  do  that  would  show  him  how  different  we  were,  and  saw  that  until  I  had  made  him  grasp  that,I  would  not  begin  to  discover  what,  since  I  wasn't  and  couldn't  be  like  him,  I  was  like.  N  July,  Mother  and  Father  went  up  to  Beersheba  Springs,  on  the  Cumberland  Plateau,  for  a  few  days'  relief  from  the  hot  weather.  Beersheba  was  an  old-fashioned  watering  place,  the  resort  in  past  times  of  Episcopal" b"bishops,  [REDACTED]  planters,  and  the  gentry  of  Middle  [REDACTED].  By  the  nineteen-twenties  only  a  select  few  from  the  [REDACTED]  Basin  kept  cottages  there  and  held  sway  at  the  old  hotel.  It  was  the  kind  of  summer  spot  my  parents  felt  most  comfortable  in.  It  had  never  had  the  dash  of  Tate  Springs  or  the  homey  atmosphere  of  Monteagle,  but  it  was  older  than  either  of  those  places  and  had  had  since  its  beginning  gambling  tables,  horses,  and  dancing.  Behind  the  porticoed  hotel  on  the  bluff's  edge,  theold  slave  quarters  were  still  standing,  as  was  also  the  two-story  brick  gargconni\xc3\xa9re,  reached  bya  cov-  ered  walkway  from  the  hotel.  There  was  an  old  graveyard  overgrown  with  box  and  red  cedar,  enclosed  by  a  rock  wall  and  containing  old  gravestones  leaning  at  precarious  anglesbut  still  bearing  good  [REDACTED]-[REDACTED]  names  like  Burwell  and  Armistead,  Farther  along  the  bluff  and  farther  back  on  the  plateau  were  substantial  cottages  and  summer  houses,  a  good  number  of  them  built  of  squared  chestnut  logs  and  flanked  by  handsome  limestone  end  chimneys.  The  ancient  and  unrecon-  structed  atmosphere  of  the  place  had  its  attraction  even  for  Grandfather  Manley,  and  my  parents  had  persuaded  him  to  accompany  them  on  their  holi-  day  there.  He  drove  in  to  [REDACTED]  and  then,  still  in  his  own  car,  followed  Mother  and  Father  in  their  car  to  Beersheba  Springs,  which  was  seventy  or  eighty  miles  southeast  of,  [REDACTED],  on  the  edge  of  the  plateau  and  just  above  what  used  to  be  known  as  the  Highland  Rim.  It  seemed  a  long  way  away.  There  was  no  question  in  my  mind  of  the  old  man's  turning  up  in  [REDACTED]  this  time.  I  looked  forward  with  pleasure  to  a  few  days  of  absolute  freedom-  from  my  parents,  from  my  grand-  father,  and  even  from  the  servants,  who  were  always  given  a  holiday  whenever  my  parents  were  out  of  town.  I  was  in  such  relaxed  good  spir-  its  when  Father  and  Mother  and  Grandfather  Manley  had  departed  that  I  went  up  to  my  room-though  it  was  not  yet  noon-and  took  a  nap  on  my  bed.  I  had  no  plans  made  for  this  period  of  freedom  except  to  see  even  more  than  usual  of  a  Ward-Bel-  mont  girl  whom  I  had  been  dating  during  most  of  that  winter  and  spring  and  whom  my  parents,  as  an  indication  of  their  approval  of  my  courting  a  girl  of  her  particular  family,  had  had  to  dinner  at  our  house  several  times  and  even  on  one  occasion  when  my  grandfather  was  there.  She  was  ac-  knowledged  by  my  family  and  by  " b"everyone  else  to  be  my  girl,  and  by  no  one  more  expressly  than  by  the  two  of  us-by  the  girl  herself,  that  is,  and  by  me.  I  was  awakened  from  my  nap  just  before  noon  that  day  by  the  ringing  of  the  telephone  in  the  upstairs  hall.  And  it  so  happened  that  the  person  calling  was  none  other  than  she  whom  I  would  have  most  wished  to  hear  from.  It  was  not  usual  for  such  a  girl  to  tele-  phone  any  boy,  not  even  her  acknowl-  edged  favorite.  I  have  to  say  thatas  soon  as  I  heard  her  voice  I  experienced  one  of  those  moments  I  used  often  to  have  in  my  youth  of  seeming  to  know  how  everything  was  going  to  go.  I  can't  blame  myself  for  how  things  did  go  during  the  next  twenty-four  hours  and  can't  blame  the  girl,  either.  Since  this  is  not  the  story  of  our  romance,  it  will  suffice  to  say  that  though  our  romance  did  not  endure  for  long  after  that  time,  these  events  were  not  neces-  sarily  the  cause  of  its  failure.  The  girl  herself  has  prospered  in  life  quite  as  much  as  I  have.  And  no  doubt  she  sometimes  speaks  of  me  nowadays,  wherever  in  the  world  she  is  living,  as  &quot;a  boy  I  went  with  in  [REDACTED],&quot;  with-  out  ever  actually  mentioning  my  name.  At  any  rate,  when  she  telephoned  that  day  she  said  she  was  wery  much  upset  about  something  and  wanted  wery  much  to  see  me  at  once.  She  apologized  for  calling.  She  would  not  have  been  so  brash,  she  said,  except  that  since  I  had  told  her  of  my  parents'  plans  she  knew  I  would  probably  be  at  home  alone.  The  circumstance  about  which  she  was  upset  was  that  since  her  par-  ents,  too,  were  out  of  town,  her  two  older  sisters  were  planning  &quot;an  awful  kind  of  party&quot;  that  she  could  not  possibly  have  any  part  in.  She  wanted  me  to  help  her  decide  what  she  must  do.  My  parents  had  taken  our  family  car  to  Beersheba,  and  so  it  was  that  she  and  I  had  to  meet  on  foot,  halfway  between  Acklen  Park  and  her  house,  which  was  two  or  three  miles  away,  out  in  the  [REDACTED]  Meade  section.  And  it  ended  of  course,  after  several  hours  of  earnest  talk  about  love  and  life-ex-  changed  over  milkshakes  in  a  place  called  Candyland  and  on  the  benches  in  the  Japanese  Garden  in  Centennial  Park-ended  by  our  coming  to  my  house  and  telephoning  her  sisters  that  she  had  gone  to  spend  the  night  with  a  classmate  from  Ward-Belmont.  The  inevitability  of  its  working  out  so  is  beyond  question  in  my  mind.  At  least,  in  retrospect  it  is.  Certainly  both  of  us  had  known  for  many  days  be-  forehand  that  both  sets  of  parents  would  be  out  of  town;  and  certainly " b"the  very  passionate  kind  of  necking  which  we  had  been  indulging  in  that  summer,  in  the  darkness  of  my  father's  car  and  in  the  darkness  of  her  father's  back  terrace,  had  become  almost  in-  tolerable  to  us.  But  we  could  honestly  say  to  ourselves  that  we  had  made  no  plans  for  that  weekend.  We  were  able  to  tell  ourselves  afterward  that  it  was  just  something  that  happened.  And  I  was  able  to  tell  myself  for  many  years  afterward-I  cannot  deny  it  categori-  cally  even  today-that  I  would  not  have  consented  to  our  coming  to  my  house  if  I  had  thought  there  was  the  remotest  possibility  of  Grandfather  Manley's  turning  up  there.  And  yet,  though  I  can  tell  myself  so,  there  will  always  be  acertain  linger-  ing  doubt  in  my  mind.  And  even  after  it  was  clear  to  both  of  us  that  we  would  sleep  together  that  night,  her  sense  of  propriety  was  still  such  that  she  refused  to  go  up  to  the  second  floor  of  my  house.  Even  when  Iled  her  into  Grandfather  Manley's  room,  she  did  not  realize  or  did  not  acknowledge  to  herself  that  it  was  a  bedroom  we  were  in.  I  suppose  she  had  never  before  seen  anything  quite  like  the  furniture  there.  &quot;What  a  darling  room!&quot;  she  exclaimed  when  I  had  put  on  the  floor  lamp  be-  side  the  golden-oak  rocker.  And  when  I  pulled  down  the  great  folding  bed,  even  in  the  dim  lamplight  I  could  see  that  she  blushed.  Simultaneously  al-  most,  I  caught  a  glimpse  of  myself  in  the  mirror  of  the  oak  bureau  and  I  cannot  deny  that  I  thought  with  a  cer-  tain  glee  in  that  moment  of  my  grand-  father  or  deny  that  I  felt  a  certain  premonition  of  events.  My  first  thought  when  I  heard  his  car  outside  the  next  afternoon  was:  We  are  in  Ais  room!  We  are  in  his  bed!  I  imag-  ined  thatthat  was  what  was  going  to  disturb  him  most.  The  fact  was  that  we  had  been  in  and  out  of  his  bed  I  don't  know  how  many  times  by  then.  We  had  not  only  made  love  there  in  a  literal  sense,  and  were  so  engaged  when  he  arrived,  but  we  had  during  various  intervals  delighted  each  other  there  in  the  bed  with  card  games  and  even  checkers  and  Parcheesi,  with  enormous  quantities  of  snacks  which  the  cook  had  left  for  me  in  the  refrigerator,  and  finally  with  reading  aloud  to  each  other  from  volumes  of  poetry  and  fic-  tion  which  I  fetched  from  my  room  upstairs.  If  there  had  been  any  sense  of  wrongdoing  in  our  heads  the  previous  afternoon  regarding  such  preoccupa-  tions  as  would  be  ours  during  those  two  days,  it  had  long  since  been  dis-pelled  by  the  time  that  old  man  my  grandfather  arrived.  When  I  told  her  there  beside  me  that  it  was  the  tires  of  my  grandfa-  ther's  carshe  and  I  had  heard  skid-  ding  in  the  gravel  and  that  it  was  now  his  quick,  light  step  on  the  porch  steps  that  I  recognized,  she  seized  me  by  the  wrist  and  whispered,  &quot;Even  if  he  knows  I'm  here,  I  don't  want  him  to  see  me,  and  I  don't  want  to  see  him.  You  have  to  hide  me!  Quickly!&quot;  By  the  time  we  had  pushed  up  the  folding  bed,  there  was  already  the  sound  of  his  key  in  the  front  door.  There  was  noth-  ing  for  it,  if  she  were  to  be  hidden,  but  to  hide  her  in  the  wardrobe.  &quot;Over  there,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;if  you're  sure  you  want  to.  But  it's  his  room.  He's  apt  to  find  you.&quot;  &quot;Don't  you  let  him,&quot;  she  com-  manded.  &quot;You  put  on  your  clothes&quot;  was  all  I  could  say.  I  was  pulling  on  my  trou-  sers.  And  now  she  was  running  on  tiptoe  toward  the  wardrobe,  with  nothing  on  at  all,  carrying  all  her  clothing  and  apillow  and  blanket  from  the  bed,  all  in  a  bundle  clutched  be-  fore  her.  She  opened  the  wardrobe  door,  tossed  everything  in  before  her,  and  then  hopped  in  on  top  of  it.  I  fol-  lowed  her  over  there,  buttoning  my  trousers  and  trying  to  get  into  my  shirt.  As  I  took  a  last  step  forward  to  close  the  door  on  her,  I  realized  that  except  for  her  and  the  bundle  ofcloth-  ing  she  was  crouched  on  the  wardrobe  was  entirely  empty.  There  were  no  possessions  of  Grandfather's  in  it.  I  thought  to  myself,  Perhaps  he  never  opens  the  wardrobe  even.  And  as  I  closedthe  door  I  saw  to  my  delight  that  my  brave  girl,  huddled  there  inside  the  wardrobe,  wasn't  by  any  means  shed-  ding  tears  but  was  smiling  up  at  me.  And  I  think  I  knew  then  forthe  first  time  in  my  life  how  wonderful  it  is  to  be  in  love  and  how  little  anything  else  in  the  world  matters.  And  I  found  myself  smiling  back  at  her  with  hardly  an  awareness  of  the  fact  that  she  hadn't  a  piece  of  clothing  on  her  body.  And  I  actually  delayed  closing  the  door  long  enough  to  put  the  palm  of  my  hand  to  my  mouth  and  throw  her  a  kiss.  Then,  having  observed  the  empti-  ness  of  the  wardrobe,  I  glanced  over  at  the  oak  bureau  and  wondered  if  it  weren't  entirely  empty,  too.  I  was  in-  spired  by  that  thought  to  quickly  gath-  er  up  my  books,  along  with  a  bread  wrapper  and  a  jam  jar,  a  kitchen  knife,  a  couple  of  plates  and  glasses,  " b"and  also  my  own  shoes  and  socks,  and  to  stuff  them  all  inside  a  drawer  of  the  bureau.  On  opening  the  heavy  top  drawer  I  found  I  was  not  mistaken.  The  drawer  was  empty  and  with  no  sign  of  its  ever  having  been  used  by  Grandfather-perhaps  not  since  the  day  when  thefurniture  had  first  been  brought  from  Hunt  County  and  Moth-  er  had  put  down  the  white  paper  in  it  for  lining.  Already  I  had  heard  Grandfather  Manley  calling  my  name  out  in  the  front  hall.  It  was  something  I  think  he  had  never  done  before  when  arriving  at  the  house.  His  choosing  to  do  so  had  given  me  the  extra  time  I  had  needed.  When  I  closed  the  big  bureau  drawer  I  looked  at  myself  in  the  wide  mirror  above  it,  and  I  was  almost  unrecog-  nizable  even  to  myself.  I  was  sweating  profusely.  My  hair  was  uncombed.  I  had  not  shaved  in  two  days.  My  trou-  sers  and  shirt  were  all  wrinkles.  But  I  heard  my  grandfather  calling  me  a  second  time  and  knew  I  had  to  go  out  there.  When  I  stepped,  barefoot,  into  his  view  I  could  tell  from  his  expression  that  he  saw  me  justas  I  had  seen  my-  self  and  that  I  was  barely  recognizable  to  him.  He  was  standing  at  the  footof  the  stairs,  from  which  point  he  had  been  calling  my  name.  No  doubt  my  face  showed  him  how  astonished  I  was  to  have  him  call  out  to  me  on  coming  into  the  house-at  the  informality  and  open  friendliness  of  it.  No  doubt  for  a  minute  or  so  hesupposed  that  ac-  counted  wholly  for  my  obvious  con-  sternation.  He  actually  smiled  at  me.  It  was  rather  a  sickly  grin,  though,  like  General  Forrest's,  the  smile  of  a  man  who  isn't  given  to  smiling.  And  yet  there  was  an  undeniable  warmth  in  his  smile  and  in  the  total  expression  on  his  face.  &quot;I  couldn't  abide  another  day  of  Beersheba  Springs,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;The  swells  over  there  aretoo  rich  for  my  blood.  I  thought  I  would  just  slip  by  here  on  my  way  home  and  see  what  kind  of  mischief  you  might  be  up  to.&quot;  Clearly  what  he  said  was  intended  to  amuse  me.  And  just  as  clearly  he  meant  that  he  preferred  whatever  low  life  he  might  find  me  engaged  into  the  high  life  led  by  my  parents'  friends  at  Beersheba.  Presently,  though,  he  could  deceive  himself  no  longer  about  my  extraordinary  appearance  and  my  nerv-  ous  manner's  indication  that  some-  thing  was  wrong.  &quot;What's  the  matter,  son?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Nothing's  the  matter,&quot;  I  said  bellig-  erently.  The  very  friendliness  of  his  de-  meanor  somehow  made  me  resent" b"more  bitterly  than  ever  before  his  turn-  ing  up  at  so  inconvenient  a  moment.  This  was  my  real  life  he  had  come  in  on  and  was  interfering  with.  More-  over,  he  had  intruded  this  time  with  real  and  unconcealed  feelings  of  his  own.  I  could  not  permit  him,  at  that  hour  of  my  life,  to  make  me  the  object  of  his  paternal  affection.  I  was  a  grown  man  now  and  was  in  love  with  a  girl  who  was  about  to  be  disgraced  in  his  eyes.  How  could  there  be  anything  be-  tween  him  and  me?  His  life,  whether  or  not  it  was  in  any  way  his  fault,  had  kept  him  from  knowing  what  love  of  our  sort  was.  He  might  know  everything  else  in  the  world,  including  every  other  e  feeling  that  I  would  never  be  able  to  experience.  He  might  be  morally  correct  &gt;  about  everything  else  in  the  world,  but  he  was  not  morally  cor-  rect  about  love  between  a  man  and  a  woman.  This  was  what  I  felt  there  in  the  hall  that  afternoon.  I  was  aware  &amp;  of  how  little  I  had  to  base  my  judg-  ment  on.  It  was  based  mostly  on  the  nothing  that  had  ever  been  said  about  -  women  in  all  the  stories  he  had  told  me,  In  the  stories  about  the  night  riders,  for  instance,  there  was  no  incident about  his  reunion  with  his  wife,  my  grandmother,  afterward.  And  I  never  heard  him  speak  of  her  by  her  first  name.  Even  now  I  wonder  how  we  ever  know  about  such  men  and  their  attitude  toward  women.  In  our  part  of  the  world  we  were  brought  upon  tales  of  the  mysterious  ways  of  Thomas  Jefferson,  whose  mother  and  wife  are  scarcely  mentioned  in  his  writings,  and  Andrew  Jackson  and  Sam  [REDACTED],  whose  reticence  on  the  subject  of  women  is  beyond  the  comprehension  of  most  men  nowadays.  Did  they  have  too  much  respect  for  women?  Were  they  perhaps,  for  all  their  courage  in  other  domains,  afraid  of  women  or  afraid  of  their  own  compelling  feelings  toward  women?  I  didn't  think  all  of  this,  of  course,  as  I  faced  Grandfather  Manley  there  in  the  hall,  but  I  believe  I  felt  it.  It  seemed  to  me  that  his  generation  and  my  own  were  a  thou-  sand  years  apart.  &quot;What's  the  matter,  son?&quot;  he  said.  Nothing's  the  matter,&quot;  I  said.  There  was  nothing  more  for  either  of  us  to  say.  He  began  to  move  toward  me  and  in  the  direction  of  his  room.  &quot;Why  don't  you  wait  a  minute,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;before  you  go  into  your  room?&quot;  His  little  eyes  widened,  and  after  a  moment  he  said,  &quot;It  ain't  my  room,  y'  know.  I  only  stay  in  it.&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;but  I've  been  read-  ing  in  there.  Let  me  go  clear  up  my  books  and  things.&quot;  I  had  no  idea  but  to  delay  him.  I  said,  &quot;Maybe  you  should  go  out  to  the  kitchen  and  get  something  to  eat.&quot;  But  he  walked  right  past  me,  still  wearing  his  hat  and  coat,  of  course,  and  still  carrying  his  litle  Gladstone  bag.  When  he  had  passed  into  his  room  and  I  had  followed  him  in  there,  he  said,  &quot;I  see  no  books  and  things.&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  hid  them  in  the  bureau  drawer.  I  didn't  know  whether  you  would  like  my  being  in  here.&quot;  He  looked  at  me  skeptically.  I  went  over  and  opened  the  drawer  and  took  out  my  books  and  my  shoes  and  socks.  'Then  I  closed  the  drawer,  leaving  every-  thing  else  in  it.  But  he  came  and  opened  the  drawer  again.  see  And  he  saw  the  plates  and  other  things.  &quot;What  else  are  you  hiding?&quot;  he  asked.  No  doubt  he  had  heard  the  knives  and  the  plates  rat-  tling  about  when  I  closed  the  drawer.  Then  he  turned  and  walked  over  to  the  wardrobe.  I  ran  ahead  of  him  and  placed  myself  against  the  door.  'You've  got  one  of  those  bitches  of  yours  hidden  in  there,  I  reckon,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;No,  [REDACTED];  I  said,  trying  to  look  him  straight  in  the  eye.  &quot;Then  what  is  it?&quot;  he  said.  And  he  began  blinking  his  eyes,  not  because  I  was  staring  into  them  but  because  he  was  thinking.  &quot;Are  you  going  to  tell  me,  or  am  I  going  to  find  out  for  myself?&quot;  Suddenly  I  said,  &quot;It's  my  girl  in  there.&quot;  We  were  both  silent  for  a  time,  staring  into  each  other's  eyes.  &quot;And  you've  no  right  to  open  the  door  on  her,&quot;  I  finally  said.  &quot;Because  she's  not  dressed.&quot;  You're  lying,&quot;  he  came  back  at  me  immediately.  &quot;I  don't  believe  you  for  a  minute.&quot;  He  left  me  and  went  to  the  folding  bed  and  pulled  it  down.  He  set  his  bag  on  the  bed  and  he  poked  at  the  jumble  of  sheets  with  his  cane.  Then  he  stood  there,  looking  back  at  me  for  several  moments.  He  still  had  not  re-  moved  his  straw  hat  and  had  not  un-  buttoned  his  coat.  Finally  he  began  moving  across  the  room  toward  me.  He  stood  right  before  me,  looking  me  in  the  eye  again.  Then,  with  almost  no  effort,  he  pushed  me  aside  and  opened  the  wardrobe  door.  She  still  hadn't  managed  to  get  into  her  clothes  but  she  was  hugging  the  pillow  and  had  the  blanket  half  pulled  over  her  shoulder.  Ithink  he  may  have  recognized  her  from  the  one  time  he  had  met  her  at  dinner.  Or  maybe,  I  thought  to  myself,  he  was  just  such  an  old  expert  that  he  could  tell  what  kind  " b"of  girl  she  was  from  one  glance  at  her.  Anyway,  he  turned  on  me  a  look  cold  and  fierce  and  so  articulate  that  I  imagined  I  could  hear  the  words  his  look  expressed:  &quot;So  this  is  how  bad  you  really  are!&quot;  Then  he  went  directly  over  to  the  bed,  took  up  his  bag  and  his  cane,  left  the  room,  and  left  the  house  without  speaking  to  me  again.  When  I  had  heard  the  front  door  close  I  took  the  leather  ottoman  across  the  room  and  sat  on  it,  holding  hands  with  that  brave  and  quiet  girl  who,  with  the  door  wide  open  now,  re-  mained  crouching  inside  the  wardrobe.  When  finally  we  heard  him  drive  out  of  the  driveway,  we  smiled  at  each  other  and  kissed.  And  I  thought  to  my-  self  again  that  his  generation  and  ours  were  a  thousand  years  apart,  or  ten  thousand.  THOUGHT  of  course  that  when  Grandfather  Manley  left  Acklen  Park  he  would  continue  on  his  way  to  Hunt  County.  But  that  was  not  the  case.  Or  probably  he  did  go  to  Hunt  County,  after  all,  and  then  turned  around  and  went  back  to  Beersheba  Springs  from  there.  Because,  according  to  the  account  which  my  parents  gave  me  later,  he  arrived  at  Beersheba  at  about  eleven  o'clock  that  night,  and  it  would  be  difficult  to  explain  how  he  was  dressed  as  he  was  unless  he  had  made  a  trip  home  and  changed  into  the  clothes  he  arrived  in.  He  left  Acklen  Park  about  four  in  the  afternoon,  and  from  that  time  through  the  remaining  ten  years  of  his  life  he  was  never  again  seen  wearing  the  old  gabardine  coat  or  either  of  his  broad-brimmed  hats.  When  he  arrived  at  Beersheba,  Mother  and  Father  were  sitting  on  the  front  gallery  of  the  hotel  with  a  group  of  friends.  They  were  no  doubt  rocking  away  in  thebig  rock-  ers  that  furnished  the  porch,  talking  about  the  bridge  hands  they  had  held  that  evening,  and  enjoying  the  view  of  the  moonlit  valley  below  Cumberland  Mountain.  When  they  saw  him  drive  up,the  car  was  unmistakable  of  course.  But  the  man  who  emerged  from  it  was  not  unmistakable.  Major  Basil  Manley  was  dressed  in  a  black  serge  suit,  and  in  the  starched  collar  of  his  white  shirt  he  wore  a  black  shoestring  tie.  I  can  de-  scribe  his  attire  in  such  detail  because  from  that  day  I  never  saw  him  in  any  other.  That  is,  except  on  Decoration  Day  in  those  later  years,  when  he  in-  variably  appeared  in  [REDACTED]  uni-  form.  And  in  which  uniform,  at  his  own  request,  he  was  finally  buried,  not  at  Huntsboro  and  not  in  the  family     graveyard  but  at  Mount  Olivet  Cem-  etery,  at  [REDACTED].  My  father's  account  of  his  arrival  on  the  hotel  porch  is  memorable  to  me  because  it  is  the  source  of  a  great  discovery  which  I felt  I  had  made.  My  parents  didn't  recognize  him  for  a  certainty  until  he  had  passed  along  the  shadowy  brick  walkway  between  the  hovering  box-  woods  and  stepped  up  on  the  porch.  And  then,  significantly,  both  of  them  went  to  him  and  kissed  him  on  the  cheek,  first  my  mother  and  then  my  father.  And  all  the  while,  as  my  fa-  ther  described  it,  Major  Manley  stood  there,  ramrod  straight,  his  cheeks  wet  with  tears,  like  an  old  general  accept-  ing  total  defeat  with  total  fortitude.  And  what  I  understood  for  certain  MW  when  I  heard  about  that  ceremony  of  theirs  was  that  it  had,  their  battle  all  along,  his  and  theirs,  not  his  and  mine.  I,  after  all,  had  only  been  the  pawn  of  that  gentle-seeming   couple  who  were  his  daughter  and  son-in-law  and  who  were  my  parents.  His  disenchantment  and  his  eventual  corruption  had  been  necessary  to  their  purposes,  and  I  had  been  their  means  of  achieving  that  end.  It  is  almost  un-  believable  the  changes  that  took  place  after  all,  been  in  Grandfather  from  that  day.  He  grew  his  beard  again,  which  was  com-  pletely  white  now,  of  course.  It  hid  his  S  lean  jaw  and  weak  chin,  making  him  very  handsome,  and  was  itself  very  beautiful  in  its  silky  whiteness  against  his  black  suit  and  black  shoestring  tie.  The  following  year-the  very  next  May-he  began  attending  the  Confed-  erate  Reunions  again.  And  of  course  he  was  immediately  promoted  to  the  rank  of  colonel.  Yet  he  did  hold  out  against  ever  wearing  the  insignia  ofthat  rank,  until  he  was  in  his  cof-  fin  and  it  was  put  on  him  by  other  hands.  As  know,  he  never  allowed  any-  one-not  even  the  other  vet-  erans-to  address  him  other-  wise  than  as  &quot;Major  Man-  ley.&quot;  And  in  the  fall,  after  he  had  first  appeared  in  his  new  role  at  Beersheba  Springs,  he  began  coming  into  Nash-  ville  more  often  than  ever.  I  was  not)  at  home  that  fall,  since  that  was  my  first  year  away  at  college,  but  when  I  would  go  home  for  a  weekend  and  find  him  there  or  find  that  he  had  been  there,  I  would  observe  some  new  object  in  his  room,  an  old  picture  of  my  grand-  mother  as  a  girl,  bare-shouldered  and  with  dark  curls  about  her  face,  the  pic-  ture  in  its  original  oval  frame.  Other  family  pictures  soon  appeared,  too.  And  there  was  a  handsome  washbasin  and    pitcher,  and  there  were  some  of  his  favorite  books,  like  Ramsey's  &quot;Annals     " b"of  [REDACTED],&quot;  and  lawhooks  that  had  belonged  to  his  father,  my  great-grand-  father.  And  then,  very  soon,  he  began  to  bring  in  small  pieces  of  furniture  that  were  unlike  the  golden-oak  pieces  already  there.  When  my  mother  had  first  urged  Grandfather  Manley  to  come  live  with  us,  it  was  just  after  my  grandmother  died  and  before  we  had  moved  into  the  big  house  in  Acklen  Park.  He  had  said  frankly  then  that  he  thought  he  would  find  it  too  cramped  in  our  little  house  on  Division  Street.  But  when  they  bought  the  new  house,  they  had  done  so  with  an  eye  to  providing  accommoda-  tions  that  would  be  agreeable  to  an  old  man  who  might  before  many  years  not  like  to  climb  stairs  and  who,  at  any  rate,  was  known  to  be  fond  of  his  privacy.  They  consulted  with  a  number  of  their  friends  who  had  the  responsi-  bility  for  aging  parents.  It  was  a  bond  they  were  now  going  to  share  with  those  friends,  ora  bond  which  they  aspired  to,  anyway.  In  those  days  in  [REDACTED],  having  a  [REDACTED]  veter-  an  around  the  place  was  comparable  to  having  a  peacock  on  the  lawn  or,  if  not  that,  at  least  comparable  to  having  one's  children  in  the  right  schools.  It  was  something  anybody  liked  to  have.  It  didn't  matter,  I  suppose,  what  rank  the  veteran  was,  since  he  was  certain  to  be  promoted  as  the  years  passed.  The  pressure  on  Major  Manley  to  move  in  with  his  daughter  and  son-in-law  was  gentle  always,  but  it  was  constant  and  it  was  enduring.  One  of  the  most  com-  pelling  reasons  given  him  was  that  they  wanted  him  to  get  to  know  his  only  grandson  and  that  they  wanted  the  grandson  to  have  the  benefit  of  grow-  ing  up  in  the  house  with  him.  Well,  when  the  new  house  was  bought  and  he  was  shown  that  room  on  the  first  floor  which  was  to  be  reserved  per-  petually  for  him  whenever  he  might  choose  to  come  and  occupy  it,  and  when  he  was  urged  to  furnish  it  with  whatever  pieces  he  might  wish  to  bring  in  from  Hunt  County,  he  no  doubt  felt  he  could  not  absolutely  reject  the  in-  vitation,  And  he  no  doubt  had  un-  realistic  dreams  about  some  kind  of  rapport  that  might  develop  between  him  and  the  son  of  this  daughter  and  son-in-law  of  his.  I  don't  remember  the  day  it  hap-  pened,  of  course,  but  it  must  have  come  as  a  considerable  shock  and  disap-  pointment  to  Mother  when  a  truck  hired  in  Huntsboro  arrived  bearing  not  the  rosewood  half-canopied  bed  from  her  mother's  room  at  home,  or  the  cannon-  ball  fourposter  from  the  guest  room  there,  but  the  foldaway  golden-oak  bed " b"instead,  and  the  other  golden-oak  pieces  instead  of  the  walnut  and  mahogany  pieces  she  had  had  in  mind.  Yet  no  complaint  was  made  tothe  old  man.  (His  daughter  and  son-in-law  were  much  too  gentle  for  that.)  The  golden  oak  had  come  out  of  the  downstairs  &quot;office&quot;  in  theold  farmhouse,  which  he  had  furnished  when  he  first  got  married  and  brought  his  wife  to  live  with  his  own  parents.  No  doubt  he  thought  it  most  appropriate  for  any  downstairs  bedroom,  even  in  Acklen  Park.  The  main  object  was  to  get  him  to  occupy  the  room.  And,  after  his  fashion,  this  of  course  was  how  he  had  occupied  it  through  the  years.  But  by  Christmas  of  the  yearhe  and  I  had  our  confrontations  he  had,  piece  by  piece,  moved  all  new  furnishings  into  the  room  and  had  disposed  of  all  the  golden  oak.  The  last  piece  he  ex-  changed  was  the  folding  bed  for  the  walnut  cannonball  bed.  When  I  came  home  at  Christmas,  there  was  the  big  fourposter  filling  the  room,  its  mat-  tress  so  high  above  the  floor  (in  order  to  accommodate  the  trundle  bed)  that  a  set  of  walnut  bed  steps  was  required  for  Grandfather  to  climb  into  or  out  of  it.  And  beforespring  came  the  next  year  Grandfather  had  closed  his  house  in  Hunt  County  and  taken  up  perma-  nent  residence  in  Acklen  Park.  He  lived  there  for  the  rest  of  his  life,  par-  ticipating  in  my  parents'  lively  social  activities,  talking  freely  about  his  Civil  War  experiences,  even  telling  the  ladies  how  he  courted  my  grandmother  dur-  ing  that  time,  and  how  sometimes  he  would  slip  away  from  his  encampment,  make  a  dash  for  her  father's  farm,  and  spy  on  her  from  the  edge  of  a  wood  without  ever  letting  her  know  he  had  been  in  the  neighborhood.  Such  anecdotes  delighted  the  Nash-  ville  ladies  and  the  [REDACTED]  gentle-  men,  too.  But  often  he  would  talk  seriously  and  at  length  about  the  War  itself-to  the  great  and  special  delecta-  tion  of  both  my  parents-describing  for  a  roomful  of  people  the  kind  of  light-  ning  warfare  that  Forrest  carried  on,  going  on  late  into  the  evening  some-  times,  describing  every  little  crossroads  skirmish  from  Between  the  Rivers  to  Shiloh,  pausing  now  and  then  for  a  little  parenthetical  explanation,  forthe  ladies,  of  such  matters  as  the  difference  between  tactics  and  strategy.  Some-  times  he  would  display  remarkable  knowledge  of  the  grand  strategy  of  the  really  great  battles  of  the  War,  of  Shiloh  and  Vicksburg  and  Stone's  River  and  Franklin  and  Chickamauga,  and  of  other  battles  that  he  hadhad  no  part  in.  When  he  had  a  sufficiently  worthy  " b"audience  he  would  even  speculate  about  whether  or  not  the  War  in  the  [REDACTED]  might  have  been  won  if  Bragg  had  been  removed  from  his  command  or  whether  the  whole  War  mightn't  have  been  won  if  President  Davis  had  not  viewed  it  so  narrowly  from  the  Rich-  mond  point  of  view.  Or  he  would  raise  the  question  of  what  might  have  hap-  pened  if  Lee  had  been  allowed  to  go  to  the  Mountains.  I  heard  my  parents'  accounts  of  all  such  talk  of  his.  But  I  heard  some  of  it  myself,  too.  The  fall  after  I  had  gradu-  ated  from  Wallace  School,  I  went  away  to  the  University  of  the  [REDACTED],  at  Sewanee.  My  father  had  gone  to  Vanderbilt  because  he  had  been  a  Methodist,  and  Vanderbilt  was  the  great  Methodist  university  in  those  days.  But  he  and  Mother,  under  the  influence  of  one  of  his  aunts,  had  be-  come  Episcopalianbefore  I  was  born  even.  And  so  there  was  never  any  idea  but  that  I  should  go  to  Sewanee.  I  liked  being  at  Sewanee  and  liked  being  away  from  [REDACTED]  for  the  first  time  in  my  life.  The  university  was  full  of  boys  from  the  various  states  ofthe  Deep  [REDACTED].  I  verysoon  made  friends  there  with  boys  from  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED].  And  since  [REDACTED]  was  so  close  by,  I  used  to  bring  some  of  them  home  with  me  on  weekends  or  on  short  holidays.  They  of  course  had  never  seen  Grand-  father  Manley  the  way  he  had  been  before.  And  they  couldn't  imagine  his  being  different  from  the  way  he  was  then.  He  would  gather  us  around  him  sometimes  in  the  evening  and  talk  to  us  about  the  War  Between  the  States.  The  boys  loved  to  listen  to  him.  They  really  adored  himand  made  over  him  and  clamored  for  him  -to  tell  certain  stories  over  and  over  again.  I  enjoyed  it,  too,  of  course.  He  seemed  quite  as  strange  and  interesting  an  old  charac-  ter  to  me  as  he  did  to  them.  And  some-  times  when  I  would  ask  him  a  ques-  tion,  just  the  way  the  others  did,  he  would  answer  me  with  the  same  polite-  ness  he  showed  them,  and  at  those  times  I  would  have  the  uneasy  feeling  that  he  wasn't  quite  certain  whether  it  was  I  or  one  of  the  others  who  was  his  grand-  son,  whether  I  was  not  perhaps  merely  one  of  the  boys  visiting,  with  the  oth-  ers,  from  Sewanee. "