 b"UrRsULA  put  down  her  hairbrush  and  stared  at  her  face  in  the  glass.  It  was  a  plump,  smooth  face,  with  nothing  remarkable  about  it  except  a  resolute  chin.  Its  reflection  assured  her  that  she  had  made  an-  other  poem-the  first  in  five  days,  just  when  she  was  beginning  to  despair.  She  took  the  block  of  lined  paper,  wrote  it  down,  and  considered  it.  It  was  one  of  her  best-sarcastic  and  passionate.  But  did  it  say  everything  as  emphati-  cally  as  it  should?  Should  there  be  a  thump?  She  wrote  it  down  again  and  changed  the  last  line.  O  God,  when  will  my  endless  night  begin  ?  With  the  impetus  of  a  postscript,  an-  other  poem,  cynical  this  time,  darted  into  her  head:  I  gave  up  God  when  I  was  nine  (Gooseberry,  gooseberry,  gooseberry  wine)  But  put  my  trust  in  his  name  to  weigh  down  a  line.  This  took  a  little  longer.  Finally  she  copied  the  one  and  the  other  in  the  careful  printing  hand  she  kept  for  poetry,  added  the  date,  and  put  them  in  the  casket-shaped  box  which  had  once  held  expensive  chocolates.  She  finished  dressing  and  went  downstairs  to  con-  front  her  twelfth  birthday.  December  31st  was  a  hopeless  day  to  be  born  on-ten  days  before  she  went  back  to  school,  ten  days  before  she  had  anything  worth  attending  to.  It  was  dregs;  no  one  would  give  her  a  typewriter  so  soon  after  Christmas.  There  was  nothing  much  to  be  said  for  St.  Sylvester,  either,  whose  day  it  was.  She  had  looked  him  up  in  the  Calendar  of  Saints  in  the  school  library.,  He  was  apope,  he  tried  to  estab-  lish  a  general  peace,  he  was  venerated  at  Pisa.  She  intended  to  go  to  Pisa,  but  it  was  Shelley  she  would  go  for,  not  poor  old  Sylvester.  Father  was  in  the  hall,  putting  on  his  raincoat.  He  gave  her  a  kiss,  and  said,  &quot;Many  happy  re-  turns,  my  pet.  I  must  be  off,&quot;  The  door  slammed  Uncle  Terence  were  sitting  at  the  breakfast  table,  killing  time  with  toast.  A  bulging  parcel  in  [REDACTED]'s  place  held  the  woollen  jersey  Mother  had  been  knitting  and  hiding  for  weeks,  and  a  coral  bracelet.  Uncle  Terence  handed  her  a  shop-tied  oblong.  Inside  was  a  manicure  set.  Mother  flushed.  Uncle  Terence  gave  her  a  look  and  grinned.  He  was  her  brother,  old  enough  to  be  her  father,  and  lived  with  them  as  a  paying  guest.  Among  her  school  friends  [REDACTED]  referred  to  him  as  P.  G.  Pig.  Presently  Mother  got  up  and  began  to  collect  the  dirty  china.  [REDACTED]  also  got  up.  Sooner  or  later  on  this  ghastly  day  she  would  have  to  make  her  bed.  But  Mother  intercepted  her,  saying,  &quot;Come  and  help  me  wash  up.&quot;  She  stood  at  the  sink,  rinsing  and  rerinsing  a  coffee  cup,  biting  her  lips  and  arranging  her  expression.  When  she  spoke,  it  was  in  her  holy  voice.  &quot;Darling,  there's  something  I  must  tell  you  about-&quot;  &quot;Yes,  I  know.  Judy  Hollins  has  got  hers  already.&quot;  The  coffee  cup  slid  under  the  suds.  After  a  pause,  Mother  began  to  laugh.  &quot;So  I've  put  a  packet  in  your  under-  clothes  drawer.  Funny  sort  of  birthday  present.&quot;  Escaping  to  her  bedroom,  [REDACTED]  sat  on  the  rumpled  bed.  Life  was  like  that.  An  hour  ago,  the  four  walls  had  enclosed  a  kingdom,  hers  by  right  and  unassailable.  Now  they  gaped  on  shabbiness  and  familiarity,  and  they  were  papered  with  those  interminable  old  pink  rosebuds.  There  would  be  more  pink  rosebuds  on  her  birthday  cake.  Year  after  year  Mother  had  dec-  orated  them  with  pink  sugar  rosebuds.  Sometimes  they  were  quite  successful,  at  other  times  smudged.  She  looked  at  the  alarm  clock-another  of  Uncle  Terence's  hateful  presents.  She  had  forgotten  to  wind  it.  But  the  whole  house  was  an  alarm  clock.  There  was  Mother,  drudging  with  the  Hoover;  there  was  Uncle  Terence,  turning  off  the  radio  at  the  beginning  of  the  Morning  Service.  How  was  she  to  get  through  this  interminably  dreary  day-drearier  now,  because  it  had  be-  gun  to  rain.  There  was  a  knock  on  the  door,  and  a  voice  saying,  &quot;Am  I  disturbing  you,  Miss  [REDACTED]?&quot;  &quot;It's  Arkie,  my  darling  Arkie!&quot;  Ur-  sula  leaped  up  and  flung  herselfinto  a  damp  embrace.  &quot;I  had  to  look  in  on  you,  Miss  Ur-  sula,  to  wish  you  your  happy  returns.  So  I  caught  the  early  bus-&quot;  &quot;Oh,  Arkie,  you  must  have  got  up  at  dawn!&quot;  &quot;-happen  a  bit  earlier-so  as  to  have  a  sight  of  you  before  I  goon  to  the  lady  I  work  for  now.  There's  a  poodle  dog  there,  too-pedigree-but  not  to  compare  with  old  Dragon.  Stand  back,  love,  and  let  me  have  a  look  at  5,011.3)  [REDACTED]  stood  back,  remembering  not  to  stoop.  &quot;To  think  you're  a  year  older  this  very  day.  You'll  bea  lady  in  no  time.  But  don't  study  too  hard,  ducks,  lying  awake  all  night  with  your  book-read-  ing.  Take  life  easy  while  you  have  the  chance.&quot;  &quot;Darling  Arkie,  you've  saved  my  life.  It  was  being  such  a  horrible  birth-  day  till  you  walked  in.&quot;  &quot;Bound  to  be  even  come  odd,  love-like  kippers.  I've  brought  you  a  little  remembrance.&quot;  They  sat  side  by  side,  snuffing  the  uncorked  lavender  water  and  re-  calling  Dragon's  exploits,  while  Mrs.  Arkenthwaite's  profes-  sional  eye  travelled  over  the  room.  Before  she  left,  she  made  the  bed.  Byron,  too,  had  his  old  charwoman,  who  was  faithful  to  him  when  everyone  else  deserted  him.  It  was  clear  to  [REDACTED]  that  when  she  went  to  Pisa  Arken-  thwaite  must  accompany  her.  T  lunch,  after  the  falling  pound,  Ar-  kenthwaite  was  the  sub-  ject  of  conversation.  &quot;'The  house  was  so  clean     behind  him.  Mother  and  we  might  have  been  liv-     " b"ing  in  the  depth  of  the  country  instead  of  Manchester,  Terence,  do  you  re-  member  her  pork  cheese?  And  Ursu-  la,  do  you  remember  the  holystone  patterns  she  used  to  make  on  the  kitch-  en  floor?  Professor  James  said  they  went  back  to  the  ancient  Britons.  Why  didshe  go?  I  don't  know  what  made  her.&quot;  &quot;I  do.  She  couldn't  stand  the  way  Uncle  Terence  left  his  bath  towels  lying  about  for  her  to  pick  up.&quot;  &quot;A  family  trait,&quot;  said  Uncle  Ter-  ence.  &quot;But  at  least  mine  aren't  filthy.&quot;  &quot;'More  apple  pudding,  either  of  you?&quot;  Uncle  Terence  shook  his  head,  so  [REDACTED]  ate  a  second  helping  as  slowly  and  ostentatiously  as  she  could,  folded  her  table  napkin  with  exactitude,  and  left  the  room  with  dignity.  Halfway  upstairs  she  remembered  that  the  knit-  ted  jersey,  the  bracelet,  and  the  mani-  cure  set  were  still  lying  unclaimed.  Poor  Mother  had  enough  to  put  up  with  without  her  feelings  being  wounded  by  an  apparent  ingratitude  for  all  that  knitting:  the  jersey  and  the  bracelet  must  be  collected,  the  mani-  cure  set  conspicuously  ignored.  She  de-  scended.  Leaving  the  room  with  dig-  nity,  she  had  omitted  to  shut  the  door.  Their  voices  were  raised.  One  could  not  call  it  eavesdropping.  &quot;'The  adjective  was  justified.&quot;  &quot;I'm  not  talking  about  bath  towels.  I'm  talking  about  the  way  you  nag  at  the  child.  You  never  miss  a  chance  to  say  something  unpleasant,  and  then  you  grin  at  me  as  if  I  were  your  accom-  plice.  Of  course  she  notices.  You  mean  her  to  notice.  She's  sensitive.&quot;  &quot;So  am  I.&quot;  &quot;Pooh!&quot;  Mother  swept  out  of  the  room,  hold-  ing  the  tray,  and  collided  with  [REDACTED].  Inflamed  with  chivalry,  [REDACTED]  picked  up  two  broken  pudding  plates  and  some  cutlery,  and  said  leave  the  washing-up  to  her.  When  she  had  washed  everything  in  sight,  paying  particular  attention  to  the  tines  of  the  forks,  and  exhausted  two  dishcloths,  and  polished  the  glasses,  and  swilled  the  sink  and  the  draining  board,  she  turned  round.  Mother  was  sitting  sprawled  on  a  kitchen  chair,  seeming  entirely  absorbed  in  breathing.  &quot;An-  gel,&quot;  she  said  absently,  and  went  on  breathing.  [REDACTED]  saw  herself  single-  handedly  dealing  with  heart  failure-  where  were  the  smelling  salts,  or  did  one  burn  feathers,  and  where  were  the  nearest  feathers?  -when  Mother  drew  a  sharp  breath,  sat  up,  combed  her  fingers  through  her  hair,  and  said,  &quot;I've  been  thinking.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  good!&quot;  &quot;Yes,  I've  been  thinking.  What  you  and  I  both  need  is  to  get  out  of  the  house  and  have  a  dash  of  luxury.  So  I  invite  you  to  a  birthday  tea  at  the  [REDACTED]  Tea  Room.  I'll  ring  up  a  taxi  at  quarter  to  four.&quot;  HE  [REDACTED]  Tea  Room  was  dusky,  spacious,  unresonant;  it  was  what  a  church,  if  th  ickly  carpeted  and  draftproof,  might  be,  and  never  was.  If  Mother  hadn't  been  sitting  op-  posite,  tho  ugh  she  was  actually  mak-  ing  no  demands,  it  would  have  bee  n  po  ssible  to  compose  a  quite  different  sort  of  poetry-less  outright,  not  sar-  castic  at  all:  On  a  little  gilded  chair  Sit  subterraneanly  and  drink  sweet  Lethe  In  blank  verse,  probably.  &quot;What  about  a  meringue?  Or  an-  other  slice  of  Secher  Torte?  [REDACTED]  Viennese  families  had  a  Secher  Torte  delivered  every  day.&quot;  &quot;How  did  you  know?&quot;  \xc2\xab'That  sort  of  thing  sticks  in  one's  head.  Now  it  will  stick  in  yours.&quot;  ...  and  drink  sweet  Lethe  ...  &quot;You  must  have  had  a  rather  differ-  ent  life  when  you  were  young.&quot;  &quot;I  always  had  Terence.  I  hated  him  as  a  child  as  much  as  you  do  now.  Poor  Terence!  He's  always  had  some-  thing  wrong  with  him,  something  vex-  ing  him-migraine,  stomach  ulcers.  Did  you  know  he  was  married?  She  was  charming,  and  then  went  off  with  an-  other  man  while  he  was  having  an  operation.  When  he  came  out  of  hos-  pital,  no  Susie.&quot;  &quot;Is  that  why  we're  stuck  with  him?&quot;  &quot;The  odd  thing  is,  your  father  real-  ly  likes  him.&quot;  When  they  left,  the  rain  had  stopped.  The  wet  streets  shone  between  the  dark,  cliffiike  housefronts,.  The  traffic  speeded,  skidded,  bellowed  like  angry  beasts.  It  felt  dangerous,  not  like  Man-  chester.  I  shall  never  be  the  same  again,  [REDACTED]  thought.  I  shall  never  be  able  to  " b"call  myself  my  own  again.  I  shall  never  go  to  Pisa,  never  write  another  poem,  never  have  a  typewriter,  never  see  a  poem  in  print.  I  only  wanted  the  typewriter  because  magazines  think  poems  in  handwriting  are  by  children.  I  let  myself  feel  interested  in  Moth-  er,  I  almost  felt  inter-  ested  in  Uncle  Ter-  ence;  now  I'm  trapped.  I  shall  always  have  to  go  on  feeling  interested  in  them,  sorry  for  them,  wound  up  with  them.She  heard  her  feet,  step  for  step  with  her  mother's  feet,  on  the  wet  pavement.  She  had  almost  de-  cided  to  be  a  nun,  when  her  mother  stopped.  [REDACTED]  stopped  with  her.  Mother  was  hail-  ing  a  taxi.  &quot;I've  just  realized  how  late  it  is.  Your  father  will  be  back  at  any  moment,  and  there's  dinner  to  get.&quot;  The  change  to  the  unhuman  speed  of  a  taxi  changed  [REDACTED]'s  outlook.  An  earlier  poet,  a  Mrs.  Greville,  had  written  a  &quot;Prayer  for  Indifference.&quot;  It  was  in  the  school  library,  and  had  a  lot  of  verses;  when  she  was  back  she  would  look  it  up  and  read  it  more  carefully.  For  indifference  was  what  mattered,  indifference  was  the  answer;  not  to  be  upset  or  caught  out  or  involved  or  understood-above  all,  not  to  be  horribly,  pawingly,  understood.  Pray-  ing  was  nonsense,  of  course.  No  truly  indifferent  person  would  pray;  he  wouldn't  need  to.  His  indifference  would  have  insulated  him  against  being  sensitive,  being  annoyed,  being  inter-  rupted.  It  would  set  one  above  all  the  daily  idiocies-above  or  apart.  Probably  apart;  keeping  oneself  to  oneself,  mys-  teriously  aloof,  quellingly  calm  and  po-  lite.  Vowed  to  indifference,  [REDACTED]  en-  joyed  the  superior  sensation  of  being  in  a  taxi,  and  was  calm  and  polite  when  they  were  caught  in  a  traffic  jam  and  Mother  began  to  fuss  about  time  and  dinner.  &quot;At  last!&quot;  Mother  said  as  the  taxi  approached  the  house.  &quot;If  we  had  gone  on  walking,  it  would  have  taken  longer.&quot; The  taxi  drew  up.  Father  also  had  come  by  taxi.  It  was  driving  away  and  he  was  mounting  the  doorsteps,  holding  something  at  the  length  of  his  arm.  They  went  in  together.  &quot;Here's  your  birthday  present,  young  lady.  Don't  drop  it.  It's  heavy.&quot;  He  retrieved  it  from  her  grasp  and  laid  it  on  the  hall  table.  Even  before  she  guessed,  she  knew.  She  watched  him  unclasp  the  case,  lift  it  out.  QWERTYUIOP  &quot;Oh!  Oh!&quot;  The  second  &quot;Oh&quot;  was  a  yelp.  Embarrassed  by  the  sight  of  her  face,  smitten  expressionless  by  ecstasy,  he  be-  gan  to  explain  as  though  he  were  in  guilt  and  must  exculpate  himself.  &quot;You  ought  to  have  had  it  this  morning,  but  it  wasn't  ready  when  I  went  tocollect  it  yesterday  evening.  It's  secondhand,  you  see,  and  I  told  them  to  give  it  a  thorough  going-over  to  make  sure  it  was  in  working  order.  There's  a  spare  ribbon  in  the  case,  and  a  book  of  di-  rections,  and  a  brush  for  cleaning  the  keys.  And  paper  and  carbons,.  Every-thing.  After  dinner  I'll  show  you  how  it  works-which  knobsdo  what.  And  tomorrow  you  can  start  away.  Tap-  tap-tap!&quot;  He  raised  his  voice.  It  would  be  bet-  ter  if  Terence  did  not  hear  her  being  so  emotional.  &quot;You'll  find  it  useful  later  on,  too.  There's  always  work  for  a  typ-  ist,  especially  if  she  can  spell  and  punc-  tuate.  Not  so  many  can  nowadays.  Even  if  you  don't  learn  shorthand  and  take  an  office  job,  there'll  always  be  stuff  you  can  do  at  home-typing  peo-  ple's  novels  and  poems  and  so  forth.  It's  my  belief  that  every  third  per-  son  in  Manchester  is  some  kind  of  author.  We're  a  positive  nest  of  singing  birds.&quot;  He  was  bound  to  talk  like  that,  she  thought,  being  a  parent.  She  knew  bet-  ter.  "