 b"CHASE MANHATTAN BANK was in  bed  with  his  lovely  wife,  Felicia,  when  the  telephone  rang.  It  was  2:15  a.m.  &quot;Chase?&quot;  the  voice  said.  &quot;It's  me,  Steve  Ramsbuck.  Can  you  hear  [REDACTED];  &quot;Wait  a  minute,&quot;  Chase  [REDACTED]  said.  He  turned  on  his  bedside  light,  swung  his  feet  to  the  cold  floor,  and  stumbled  across  the  room  to  close  the  window,  shutting  out  the  sound  of  pouring  rain.  Fully  awake  now,  he  sat  down  on  his  bed  and  picked  up  the  phone  again.  &quot;What's  up,  Steve,&quot;  he  snapped.  While  Chase  [REDACTED]  listened,  Felicia  leaned  over  and  affectionately  fingered  the  hair  at  the  nape  of  his  neck,  but  he  pushed  her  hand  away,  for  he  had  learned  that  Steve  Ramsbuck,  a  checking-account  customer  in  good  standing,  was  in  a  pickle.  Ten  minutes  after  Steve  had  left  his  house  in  Mamaroneck  at  eleven  o'clock  that  evening  to  take  the  babysitter  home,  the  battery  in  his  Satellite  Sebring  Plus  had  suddenly  and  unaccountably  gone  dead.  He  and  the  babysitter,  a  Miss  Elaine  Pipick,  had  sat  alone  for  two  hours  in  the  dark,  cold  car  on  a  back  road,  waiting  for  help.  Steve  had  waved  frantically  at  several  passing  cars,  but  none  had  stopped.  What  made  the  situa-  tion  sticky  was  that  Miss  Pipick,  who  was  eighteen,  looked  like  a  younger  sister  of  Lin-  da  Lovelace;  it  also  happened  that  Steve's  mother-in-law,  Mrs.  Elaine  Woodsmoke,  of  Moodus,  [REDACTED],  was  visiting  the  Rams-  bucks  that  week  and  had  seen  Steve  and  Miss  Pipick  leave  the  house  together.  Miss  Pipick,  however,  was  far  from  showing  any  signs  of  cordiality  toward  her  companion  in  adversity.  In  fact,  she  was  being  down-  right  nasty.  Steve  Ramsbuck  had  final-  ly  given  up  hope  of  immediate  rescue  and  had  walked  two  miles  through  the  downpour  to  an  outdoor  phone  booth  at  the  junction  of  Mamaroneck  Avenue  and  Route  1.  He  called  home,  and  was  informed  by  Mrs.  Woodsmoke  that  his  wife,  Pat  (an  old-  fashioned  girl),  was  packing.  Then,  of  course,  he  called  Chase556e6974656420537461746573.  &quot;My  wife  is  leaving  me,&quot;  Ramsbuck  said,  concluding  his  report,  &quot;and  Miss  Pipick  is  so  mad  she  says  she'll  never  babysit  again.  She  can't  study  for  her  midterm  American-history  exam  to-  morrow  because  the  lights  in  the  car  went  out  and  the  ink  in  her  history  notes  is  running.&quot;  &quot;What's  that?&quot;  Chase  [REDACTED]  said.  &quot;''The  ink.  From  the  rain.  The  car  window  leaks  on  her  side.&quot;  Ramsbuck  sneezed.  &quot;Wait  right  there,&quot;  Chase  Man-  hattan  said.  Twenty  minutes  later,  with  torrents  of  water  dripping  from  the  foul-weather  gear  he  had  hastily  donned  over  his  pajamas,  Chase  Man-  hattan  was  at  the  little  roadside  tele-  phone  booth,  exuding  warmth  and  con-  fidence.  He  picked  up  Ramsbuck  and  drove  him  back  to  his  stalled  car,  where  he  skillfully  removed  the  faulty  battery,  replacing  it  with  a  new  one.  He  in-serted  fresh  blotters  between  the  pages  of  Miss  Pipick's  notebook,  and  invited  her  to  complete  the  journey  to  her  house  in  his  car,  so  that  Steve  Ramsbuck  could  get  back  to  his  family.  &quot;Don't  worry,  Steve,&quot;  he  said  just  before  Ramsbuck  drove  away,  &quot;We'll  straighten  every-  thing  out  in  the  morning.  Try  to  get  a  good  night'ssleep.&quot;  As  Chase  [REDACTED]  was  driving  Miss  Pipick  to  her  home  in  Tuckahoe,  she  stamped  her  foot  on  the  floor  of  his  car  and  said,  &quot;What  about  me?  How  can  I  get  a  good  night's  sleep  when  I  know  I'm  going  to  flunk  my  history  exam  tomorrow  and  lose  my  scholarship  at  Westchester  Community  College?&quot;  &quot;You  won't  flunk,&quot;  Chase  Manhat-  tan  said  reassuringly.  When  they  reached  Miss  Pipick's  house,  he  brewed  a  pot  of  strong  coffee,  and  the  two  of  them  sat  up  forthe  rest  of  the  night  in  the  kitchen  while  he  reviewed  her  his-  tory  notes  with  her,  incidentally  help-  ing  her  to  straighten  out  some  of  her  misconceptions  about  the  Gadsden  Pur-  chase.  (Miss  Pipick  received  an  A-plus  on  her  exam,  and  subsequently  de-  cided  to  change  her  major  to  history.)  At  nine  in  the  morning,  Chase  [REDACTED]  turned  up  at  the  Rams-  bucks'  house  with  an  au-  tomotive  engineer,  who  demonstrated  to  Mrs.  Ramsbuck  and  Mrs.  Woodsmoke  how  it  had  happened  that  the  bat-  tery  in  the  Satellite  Se-  bring  Plus  had  gone  dead.  &quot;If  you  hadn't  come  along,  Chase,&quot;  Rams-  buck  said  gratefully,  &quot;P'd  be  there  still.  You  have  saved  my  life.&quot;  Mrs,  Waoodsmoke  was  so  abashed  about  her  be-  havior  that  she  made  but-  termilk  waffles  for  all,  including  the  automotive  engineer.  Chase  Man-  hattan  had  to  excuse  him-  self.  He  just  had  time  to  rush  home  and  pack  a  bag  and  leave  for  the  air-  port.  He  was  flying  to  Wilkes-Barre  to  help  a  divorc\xc3\xa9e  mortgage  hold-  er  look  for  a  contact  lens  she  had  lost  while  jog-  ging.  MRS.  SADIE  YORKLE,  a  widow  of  eighty-  one,  lives  alone  in  a  two-  room  apartment  on  the  sixth  floor  of  the  Hotel  " b"Beau  Monde  on  West  Fifty-fifth  Street.  Last  Jan-  uary,  when  Mrs.  Yorkle  failed  to  answer  her  tele-  phone  for  three  days,  the  Beau  Monde's  manager,  Irving  Plantagenet,  as-  sumed  she  had  gone  away,  perhaps  to  a  folk-rock  festi-  val  in  La  Jolla,  [REDACTED].  In  fact,  Mrs.  Yorkle  was  in  her  room,  severely  ill  with  viral  hepatitis,  contracted  from  a  can  of  stuffed  clams  prepared  by  a  careless  food  packer.  In  her  weakened  condition,  Mrs.  Yorkle  could  not  get  out  of  bed,  even  to  get  to  the  oranges,  cans  of  pat\xc3\xa9,  and  Dom  Perignon  champagne  she  had  placed  in  her  refriger-  ator.  All  she  could  do  was  clear  her  throat  and  watch  the  shadow  of  the  venetian-  blind  on  the  wall.  When  Citibank  tried  to  telephone  Mrs.  Yorkle  to  inform  her  that  the  ac-  crued  annual  interest  in  her  savings  account  now  came  to  $8.87,  he  was  not  as  sanguine  as  Mr.  Plantage-  net  concerning  Sadie's  whereabouts  or  well-being.  He  immediately  put  on  his  ulster,  hailed  a  cab,  and  went  to  the  Beau  Monde,  where  he  insisted  to  the  manager  that  he  admit  him  to  his  client's  room.  Finding  Mrs.  Yorkle  in  a  deplorable  condition,  Citibank  imme-  diately  called  a  doctor.  After  the  phy-  sician  had  treated  Mrs.  Yorkle,  Citi-  bank  arranged  to  have  a  cot  set  up  in  the  room.  He  remained  there  for  five  weeks,  cooking  for  Mrs.  Yorkle  and  nursing  her  night  and  day,  until  she  regainedher  health.  To  cheer  her  up,  he  read  her  favorite  books  aloud  to  her,  including  the  complete  works  of  Vic-  toria  Holt.  AST  August,  when  Arthur  and  Phoebe  Smenton  left  their  three-  room  apartment  on  Barrow  Street  to  attend  the  wedding  of  their  son,  Arthur  junior,  in  Bujumbura,  they  asked  their  friend  Chemical  Bank  to  water  their  plants  and  feed  the  cat.  On  a  Tuesday,  the  second  day  after  the  Smentons'  departure,  Chemical  Bank  noted  that  the  cat,  a  white  feline  named  Scratch,  did  not  approach  the  food  dish,  On  Wednesday,  finding  the  apartment  empty  and  the  dish  of  Little  Friskies  again  untouched,  Chemical  Bank  went  downstairs,  knocked  on  the  door  of  the  landlord,  Mr.  Yves  Klein-  schmeiser,  and  received  permission  to  search  the  small  gardens  and  areaways  in  the  rear  of  the  premises.  At  three  o'clock  the  following  morning,  Chemi-  cal  Bank  found  Scratch  in  a  discarded  refrigerator  in  an  alley,  where  she  was  nursing  five  kittens.  Chemical  Bank  took  the  mother  and  her  young  back  to  the  Smentons'  apart-  ment,  where  he  arranged  a  basket  for  them  in  a  cozy  nook  at  the  bottom  of  the  linen  closet.  Then  he  went  out  and  bought  an  extra  supply  of  Kitty  Litter  at  an  all-night  pet  shop  on  West  Tenth  Street.  Hardly  had  Chemical  Bank  set-  tled  at  his  desk  the  next  morning  when  Mrs.  Kleinschmeiser  telephoned  to  say  thatthe  cat  and  kittens  had  kept  her  awake  all  night  and  to  demand  that  they  be  removed.  Chemical  Bank  went  home  at  once  and  packed  up  his  priceless  S\xc3\xa9vres  porcelains  in  crates,  in  the  process  of  which  he  severely  smashed  his  left  thumb  with  a  ham-  mer.  He  went  to  Barrow  Street  and  picked  up  Scratch  and  her  kittens  and  moved  them  to  his  apartment.  Chemi-  cal  Bank's  injured  thumb  was  am-  putated  on  Friday-an  interruption  in  his  day  that  caused  him  to  miss  an  appointment  which  would  have  led  to  his  being  named  to  the  Federal  Reserve  Board.  Chemical  Bank  did  not  breathe  a  word  of  this  to  the  Smentons  when  he  returned  their  cats.  When  they  asked  about  his  thumb,  he  said  he  had  caught  it  in  a  door. "