 b"I  FIRST  saw  Joan  Wilcox  at  the  town  dump  fourteen  years  ago,a  few  weeks  after  we  moved  to  the  country,  outside  Ithaca,  New  York.  She  was  a  middle-aged  woman,  thin  and  fine-boned,  wearing  a  dark  dress  considerably  longer  than  the  fashion  of  the  period,  and  she  was  apparently  delighted  to  have  found  in  the  debris  of  discarded  metal  a  small,  potbellied  wood  stove,  which  she  and  her  young  son  hoisted  into  the  bed  of  a  rusted  Chevrolet  pickup.  I  was  at  a  distance  from  them  but  could  hear  them  talk-  ing,  and  I  was  intrigued  by  her  ac-  cent,  which  to  my  ear  sounded  like  that  of  an  upper-class  Englishwoman.  I  told  my  wife  that  I  had  seen  at  the  dump  a  woman  who  had  the  bearing  and  voice  of  the  Queen  of  England  as  well  as  the  muscle  to  lift  a  cast-iron  stove,  Some  weeks  later,  I  learned  that  Joan  and  her  husband,  Hayden,  were  dairy  farmers  who  lived  a  mile  and  a  half  from  us,  and  that  shortly  before  we  came  to  the  neighborhood  their  house  had  burned.  They  carried  Joan's  mother,  who  was  paralyzed,  out  of  the  house  in  her  wheelchair,  but  that  wheel-  chair  was  the  only  possession  they  man-  aged  to  save.  The  family  had  moved     into  a  single-story  chicken  house-a  long  and  narrow  building  next  to  the  cow  barn-and  were  converting  it  as  best  they  could  into  a  passable  dwell-  ing;  at  the  dump,  Joan  had  been  look-  ing  for  anything  that  might  be  useful  in  furnishing  it.  Gradually,  we  learned  some  of  the  details  ofthe  Wilcoxes'  background.  Joan  was  born  in  [REDACTED]  but  grew  up  in  [REDACTED].  As  a  young  woman  she  became  a  professional  teataster  in  [REDACTED],  but  at  the  beginning  ofthe  Sec-  ond  World  War  she  volunteered  for  service  as  a  Wren.  Hayden,  born  in  the  United  [REDACTED],  had  been  a  merchant  seaman  from  his  youth,  rising  to  the  captaincy  of  a  ship.  The  two  met  in  Liverpool,  where  his  ship  had  docked  to  unload  supplies  during  the  war.  Their  only  child,  Duncan,  was  the  age  of  one  of  our  three  sons,  and  be-  cause  ofthefriendshipofthe  children  my  wife  and  I  became  familiar  with  the  Wilcoxes.  Now  that  the  boys  have  grown,  we  rarely  see  Joan  and  Hay-  den,  for  they  are  occupied  with  their  dairy  farm  and  the  care  of  the  mother  (they  can't  afforda  hired  hand,  much  less  a  practical  nurse),  and  my  wife  and  I  both  work  at  the  university. But for  some  years  we  did  man-  age  occasional  visits  back  and  forth.  Once,  my  wife  and  I  brought  Hayden  a  bottle  of  wine  for  his  birth,  day  and  drank  a  toast  with  him  in  the  barn  as  he  was  milking;  Joan  invited  my  wife  for  tea  several  times,  and  she  came  to  the  wedding  of  our  oldest  son.  It  was  held  in  the  side  yard,  with  the  paddock  fence  and  hills  for  back-  ground-a  casual  affair  in  the  modern  manner,  at  which  guests  read  poems,  the  farm  bell  was  rung  at  the  moment  the  ceremony  was  completed,  and  the  groom  set  off  a  three-stage  rocket  that  exploded  streamers  and  pink  talcum  powder  high  above  the  pasture.  One  of  the  guests  read  a  poem  by  a  friend  of  his  and  ours,  the  ending  lines  of  which  referred  to  the  &quot;mystery  in  hay&quot;  and  the  &quot;wonder  in  cows;&quot;  I  was  looking  at  Joan,  who  was  listening  intently  to  the  words,  and  saw  the  absolute  aston-  ishment-for  the  lines  of  her  weathered  face  betray  her  every  emotion-with  which  she  received  those  two  phrases.  Perhaps  one  shouldn't  expect  such  astonishment  at  the  relationship  of  cows  to  the  transcendent  reality  from  a  person  whose  own  cowswere  named,  as  were  Joan  and  Hayden's,  for  fig-  ures  in  classical  mythology-from  Ari-  adne  and  Athena  to  Urania  and  Xe-  noclea;  but,  on  the  other  hand,  perhaps  only  a  per-  son  who  had  so  named  them  and  then  daily  had  to  muck  the  barn  would  be  so  conscious  of  the  differ-  ence  between  ideal  and  real.  HIS  summer  I  am  building  with  Cris,  one  of  my  sons,  a  barn  forthe  goats  he  is  raising,  and  we  have  fenced  in  a  pasture  for  them.  Cris  is  twenty-three  and  works  for  Morse  Chain  in  Ithaca;  he  moved  back  home  this  summer  because  we  have  the  acreage  that  goats  require.  He  will  even-  tually  earn  his  living  from  their  milk  and  cheese.  I  sup-  pose  my  wife  and  I-and  now  Cris-feel  the  pastoral  dream.  I  know  it  has  exist-  ed  in  me  for  as  long  as  I  can  remember  and  has  something  to  do  with  my  liking  for  Cervantes.  That  dream  lay  deep  within  Don  Quixote  and  was  one  and  the  same  with  his  knight  errantry:  a  belief  that  the  Age  of  Gold  could  return,  that  all  of  us  and  all  of  our     " b"animals  should  be  able  to  coexist  peaceably,  sharing  our  acorns,  in  a  world  devoid  of  in-  justice  and  cruelty  and  the  distinctions  of  caste  or  status.  Unlike  Don  Quixote,  I  have  been  cautious  in  pursuing  such  a  dream,  which  means,  of  course,  that  I  don't  really  believe  in  its  achievement.  Farm-  ing  for  me  is  a  gesture,  a  respite,  a  refuge.  A  farm  gives  me  a  chance  to  be  a  carpenter,  a  mender  of  fences,  a  horseman,  a  gardener;  to  talk  about  the  weath-  er  (the  spring  and  ear-  ly  summer  have  been  so  wet  the  first  hay  has  spoiled,  the  wheat  has  sprouted  before  it  could  be  taken  to  market,  the  beans  in  low-lying  areas  have  died)  with  the  genuine  farmers,  including  the  one  who  rents  most  of  our  fields;  to  gather  wild  raspber-  ries  with  my  wife;  to  lie  on  my  side  in  the  sun,  chewing  a  clover  stem  and  watch-  ing  the  kids  cavort  and  gambol  (verbs  that  should  be  reserved  exclusively  for  their  actions),  and  to  piss  in  the  bright-  ness  of  noontime  on  the  despicable  bur-  dock,  whose  burs  tangle  the  horses'  tails  and  manes.  When  we  first  bought  our  farm,  I  said  that  I  would  like  to  beburied  in  the  old  apple  orchard-a  thought  any-  thing  but  morbid,  for  it  really  pleased  me,  like  the  occasional  happy  dreams  I  have  and  from  which  I  am  awakened  by  the  sound  of  my  own  chuckles.  Such  a  fancy  implies,  naturally,  that  one's  own  children  will  stay  on  the  land,  and  their  children  as  well.  The  deed  to  our  property  shows  that  the  land  and  house  had  stayed  in  the  Kelvey  family  for  well  over  one  hundred  years:  farm-  ers  begot  farmers,  the  rhythm  of  the  generations  was  in  harmony  with  the  rhythm  of  nature,  the  cycle  of  the  crops.  But  in  the  late  nineteen-thirties  all  becomes  chaotic:  ownership  passes  quickly  from  name  to  name,  sometimes  twice  within  the  same  year.  The  slip  of  time  the  McConkeys  have  occupied  the  place  is  greater  than  that  of  any  family  since  the  Kelveys.  It  is  true  that  the  freedom  I  have  on  my  land  and  my  staying  power  are  possible  only  for  people  whom  real-  estate  agents  in  their  advertisements  re-  fer  toas  &quot;gentleman  farmers.&quot;  The  salaries  we  earn  in  the  cities  and  towns  support  our  indulgences;  we  would  go  bankrupt  if  our  whole  lives  centered  on  our  farms.  The  person  most  likely  to  take  over  our  land  is  not  our  son  the  goat  dairyman  but  rather  the  farm-  er  who  rents  the  fields,  a  wholly  honest  and  reliable  person,  one  with  a  shrewd  business  sense,  mechanical  aptitude,  an  instinct  that  tells  him  what  and  when  to  plant,  and  a  great  capacity  forstren-  uous  labor  in  the  spring  and  fall-a  farmer  who  has  managed  to  beget  three  sons  just  like  him,  and  who,  in  the  past  decade,  has  had  the  wit  and  resources  to  buy  several  farms  surrounding  ours,  making  our  one  hundred  and  seventy-  threeacres  something  of  an  enclave.  SUPPOSE  that  whenever  we  talk  about  people  we  admire,  as  I  ad-  mire  Joan  and  Hayden,  we  reveal  as  much  of  ourselves  as  we  do  of  them;  certainly  the  people  we  admire  often  behave  in  a  way  that  we  would  emulate  had  we  more  courage  and  less  good  sense.  Joan  and  Hayden  were  possessed  by  the  pastoral  dream  and  abandoned  themselves  as  recklessly  to  it  as  ever  did  Don  Quixote.  The  dream  has  in-  flicted  privation  and  suffering  upon     them  to  a  degree  that  is  presumptuous  and  perhaps  even  arrogant  of  me  to  write  about.  'That  they  would  escape  the  farming  life  now  if  they  could  is  beyond  question.  One  of  their  old  friends-like  Hayden  a  former  ship  captain-visited  them  four  or  five  years  ago.  He  had  stayed  with  the  shipping  company  for  which  they  worked  until  the  year  of  compulsory  retirement  and  was  drawing  a  handsome  pension.  Hay-  den,  though  he  quit  a  number  of  years  before  retirement,  had  made  monthly  payments  intothe  company  retirement  fund  while  he  was  working;  he  and  his  friend  calculated  that  he  had  suffi-  cient  equity  in  that  fund  to  be  drawing  several  hundred  dollars  a  month.  On  the  basis  of  those  calculations  and  an  early  and  encouraging  reply  to  an  in-  quiry  the  Wilcoxes  made,  they  con-  signed  their  entire  herd  to  auction.  But  the  company  that  Hayden  worked  for  had  gone  out  of  business,  and  the  firm  dispensing  the  pension  checks  had  no  rec-  ord  of  his  payments.  Neither  had  he;  all  had  been  destroyed  in  the  fire  that  burned  their  house.  So  they  were  forced  to  purchase  a  new  but  smaller  herd,  I  admire  Joan  and  Hayden  not  only  for  their  dream  but  forthe  staunch-  ness  with  which  theyhold  on  to  the  pieces  of  it  left  to  them.  They  gave  " b"the  new  cows  the  old  names.  Athena  and  Eurydice  and  Philomela  are  back  in  their  pastures,  and  there  are  times  when  their  names  in  the  evenings  resound  in  the  dark  woods,  even  as  they  did  years  ago  when  my  wife  and  youngest  son,  Jimmy  (then  about  five),  helped  the  three  Wilcoxes  round  them  up,  after  Hayden,  driving  his  tractor  through  the  fields,  neglected  to  close  a  gate  behind  him.  As  the  mem-  bersof  the  search  party  entered  the  woods,  our  son  somehow  became  sep-  arated  from  my  wife.  While  she  was  searching  for  him,  calling  his  name,  the  Wilcoxes  were  calling  to  each  other  and  beseeching  the  supernal  figures  to  return:  &quot;Hayden,  where  are  you?&quot;  &quot;Athena?&quot;  &quot;Duncan,  I  think  I've  found  Eurydice.&quot;  &quot;Come  here,  Urania,  nice  Urania.&quot;  &quot;Philomela!&quot;  It  was  almost  dark  before  my  wife  found  Jimmy  wandering  about,  happily  call-  ing  out  the  Greek  names  himself.  They  were  near  a  strange  road  and  had  to  walk  a  mileor  more  to  get  back  to  our  car.  The  Wilcoxes  were  still  in  the  woods,  but  my  wife  felt  helpless  to  as-  sist  them.  Early  the  next  morning  she  phoned  to  see  if  the  roundup  had  been  successful.  Joan  said  cheerfully,  &quot;Oh  dear  yes,  I  found  some  cows  and  drove  them  home,  but  they  turned  out  to  be  the  wrong  ones.  We  finally  sorted  them  out  with  our  neighbors,  though,  so  everything  is  perfectly  all  right.&quot;  Perhaps  Hayden's  absentmindedness  about  closing  his  gate,  which  seems  to  come  upon  him  only  when  he's  at  the  wheel  of  his  tractor,  is  a  consequence  of  a  feeling  of  command,  asin  the  days  when  he  was  captain  of  his  oceangoing  vessel  and  had  a  crew  to  look  after  the  details.  I'm  absentminded,  too.  And  I  share  with  him  and  with  Joan  another  trait  not  necessarily  connected  with  suc-  cessful  farming-a  love  of  reading,  though  their  life  is  such  that  literature  for  them  is  more  pleasurable  memory  than  present  event.  Reading,  in  fact,  had  something  to  do  with  their  mar-  riage.  They  had  met,  that  time  in  Liv-  erpool,  because  she  and  her  group  of  Wrens,  who  were  stationed  nearby  in  a  facility  without  hot  water,  had  re-  quested  permission  to  come  aboard  his  ship  to  take  showers.  He  had  struck  up  a  conversation  about  books  with  her,  and  found  himself  thinking  of  her  as  his  ship  returned  to  [REDACTED].  From  New  York  he  cabled  advertisements  to  various  English  newspapers,  asking  that  a  woman  whose  name  he  didn't  know  but  who  had  been  a  visitor  aboard  his  ship  on  such-and-such  a  day  get  in  touch  with  him  at  the  pierin  Liverpool  on  a  designated  day.  Joan saw  the  little  notice  and  methim  when  his  ship  docked;  and  so  they  were  married.  After  the  war,  she  lived  with  him  aboard  ship  and  explored  ports  throughout  the  world.  The  ship's  li-  brary  was  a  good  one;  at  sea  she  read  constantly,  and  he  joined  her  when-  ever  his  responsibilities  permitted.  I  have  found  it  a  remarkable  experience,  sitting  in  their  converted  chicken  house,  barn  boots  cluttering  the  door-  way,  a  bit  of  manure  on  the  floor  (their  life  gives  them  precious  little  de-  sire  for  tidiness,  for  putting  on  a  show  of  order  for  late-night  guests  come  to  retrieve  a  son),  to  talk  with  that  mus-  tached  man,  tired  from  his  daily  chores  but  still  holding  himself  erectin  a  man-  ner  almost  military,  and  eager  to  dis-  cuss  the  life  of  Emma  Goldman  and  the  labor  strife  of  the  Depression  years  or  any  other  knowledge  gained  from  his  shipboard  reading.  AT  what  point  in  their  life  Hayden  and  Joan  decided  to  come  ashore  permanently  I  don't  know.  I  do  know  that  Hayden  bought  a  pickup  truck  for  Joan  just  before  he  set  off  on  his  final  sea  voyage,  loosely  tied  a  small  anchor  to  its  bumper,  and  told  her  to  take  rural  routes  across  the  nation  and  to  buy  land  in  whatever  county  of  what-  ever  state  the  anchor  fell  off-a  nauti-  cal  equivalent  of  Don  Quixote's  habit  of  giving  Rosinante  the  rein  at  a  cross-  roads  to  choose  for  him  the  future  and  whatever  splendor  it  would  bring.  The  anchor  fell  off  near  Slaterville  Springs,  Tompkins  County,  New  York;  Joan  found  the  farm  they  wanted,  at  the  opposite  end  of  that  county.  My  wife  told  me  that  as  she  was  leaving  the  Wilcoxes'  home  after  her  first  tea  Joan  put  a  hand  on  her  arm  at  the  doorway  and  said,  &quot;We  used  to  dream  ofa  country  estate,  Hayden  and  I  did,  when  we  were  on  the  ship.  We  read  about  country  houses,  the  archi-  tecture  and  landscaping.  We  wanted  a  house  with  wings,  kept  up  the  way  you  manage  to  keep  up  yours;  a  stable  for  the  horses;  a  grand  lawn  with  trees;  a  flower  garden-one  with  a  pool,  Of  course  all  that  was  silly,  for  we'd  made  upour  minds  to  have  no  servants.  Well,  there's  my  shrubbery&quot;-Joan  pointed  to  a  few  desolate  junipers  growing  up  from  the  foundation  of  the  " b"burned  house  across  the  road-&quot;and  there's  my  pool,&quot;  and  she  pointed  toward  the  muddy  cow  pond.  I\xe2\x80\x99M  always  asking  farmers  I  know  to  explain  something  about  equipment,  livestock,  or  farming  techniques.  I've  learned,  among  other  things,  that  dairy  cattle  are  slaughtered  in  approximately  their  sixth  year-at  the  optimum  point,  when  milk  production  begins  to  slack-  en  and  the  meat  will  still  bring  a  good  price.  I  imagine  it  must  have  shocked  Hayden  and  Joan  when  they  first  learned  this  hard  truth  about  their  sleek  and  affectionate  Athenas.  And  cows  even  in  their  most  productive  years  can  suffer  from  mastitis  and  ring-  worm  and  all  the  problems  connected  with  calving.  The  other  day,  I  was  watching  the  farmer  who  rents  our  land  as  he  was  baling  hay  that  had  dried  in  the  sun.  A  sudden  storm  of  the  sort  we've  been  plagued  with  for  months  sent  him  home.  As  soon  as  the  weather  cleared,  he  returned,  but  with  a  differ-  ent  piece  of  equipment-something  that  chopped  up  the  hay-and  I  figured  that  the  rain  had  made  him  change  his  plans  in  mid-field.  I  inquired  the  reason  for  this  from  another  neighbor,  who  hap-  pened  to  pass  in  his  truck-if  you  are  standing  on  a  country  road,  the  neigh-  bors  all  stop  for  a  chat-and,  after  explaining  about  the  loss  of  nutrients  that  occurs  if  you  leave  wet  hay  on  the  field  (you  can't  bale  it  wet)  and  about  how  you  have  to  make  silage  out  of  it  as  quickly  as  possible,  he  looked  at  me,  understanding  the  motive  for  my  question,  and  said,  courteously  enough,  &quot;Stick  to  teaching,  Jim.  You  don't  have  the  knack  for  machinery  that  farm  work  takes,  any  more  than  old  Hayden  does.&quot;  TTH  help  from  my  wife,  I  have  installed  an  underground  water  line-four  hundred  feet  of  it,  with  a  T  and  a  shutoff  valve  at  one  end,  where  it  intersects  with  the  line  going  to  the  horse  barn,  and  a  frost  valve  and  faucet  at  the  other,  inside  the  un-  finished  goat  barn.  It  was  the  first  major  plumbing  task  we'd  ever  under-  taken,  but  not  a  difficult  one;  the  pipe  is  plastic.  Wood  is  the  material  I  most  enjoy  working  with,  though.  I  like  the  grains  and  knots,  and  enjoy  the  smell  of  it  when  I  saw,.  As  Cris  and  my  wife  and  Jimmy  and  I-abetted  at  times  by  youthful  friends  of  my  sons-have  been  putting  up  trusses  and  roofers,  I  have  been  looking  down  from  the  new  height  at  the  goats,  all  eighteen  of  them,  in  their  pasture.  Working  on  the  barn  and  looking  at  the  goats  has  made  me  think  of  suc-  cessful  farmers  like  the  one  who  rents  our  land;  of  Cris  and  of  his  chances;  and  of  Hayden  and  Joan,  who  may  be  doing  somewhat  better  in  recent  years  but  who  have  never  been  able  to  re-  build  their  house  or  to  get  sufficient  help.  Why  should  I  feel  a  touch  of  envy  of  them,  that  pair  of  aging  Don  Quixotes,  when  my  reason  tells  me  their  life  would  be  for  me  a  night-  mare  of  entrapment?  Is  it  their  pluck,  their  dauntlessness?  (A  former  student  of  mine,  just  back  from  a  year  in  [REDACTED],  who  had  stopped  at  their  place  to  get  directions  to  ours,  said  to  us  as  soon  as  she  got  inside  our  door,  &quot;Who  is  that  remarkable  woman  who  lives  down  the  road?  I  didn't  know  there  were  such  gesuine  people  in  my  own  " b"country,  She  looks  and  talks  just  like  a  woman  on  a  kibbutz.&quot;  I  come  back  again  and  again  in  my  dreaming-it's  no  wonder  I  hammer  in  the  wrong  size  nail,  saw  the  wrong  board-to  an  August  afternoon,  an  unusually  hot  day  three  orfour  summers  ago.  It  was  one  of  the  last  times  that  I  mowed  the  weeds  and  orchard  grass  in  the  area  around  our  half-acre  pond,  diagonally  across  the  intersection  from  our  house.  I  used  to  mow  it  regularly,  using  a  sickle  bar  attached  to  a  garden  trac-  tor-both  scaled-down  versions  of  real  farm  equipment-for  we  once  thought  of  that  area  as  a  little  park.  Soon  aft-  er  moving  to  the  country,  we  made  a  beach  for  swimming,  covering  the  muck  near  the  shoreline  with  bank-  run  gravel  and  sand.  We  planted  high-  bush  cranberries,  multiflora  roses,  white  pine,  and  willows  nearby.  But  musk-  rats  found  the  pond  and  burrowed  into  the  shoreline,  undermining  a  row  of  bushes;  they  snipped  off  a  large  num-  ber  of  seedlings.  The  runoff  from  the  cultivated  field  to  the  east  contained  so  many  nutrients  from  the  fertilizer  the  successful  farmer  uses  thatthe  pond  began  to  fill  up  with  algae  and  long  strands  of  seaweed,.  Now  that  our  children  are  grown-the  youngest  a  high-school  senior  in  the  fall-the  pond  is  rarely  used  for  swimming;  weeds  and  tall  grasses  surround  it.  On  that  August  afternoon  the  pond  was  still  halfway  respectable,  despite  the  algae  and  seaweed,  despite  the  caved-in  bank.  As  I  was  mowing,  Joan  came  down  the  road  in  her  old  truck.  She  saw  me  and  waved  cheerfully,  and  suddenly  braked,  the  tires  skidding  on  the  gravel.  I  left  the  tractor,  thinking  she  had  something  to  say.  Apparently  she  had  just  loaded  the  truck-the  bed  was  filled  with  rusty  machine  parts  and  garbage  cans-for  her  face  was  flushed.  She  smiled  at  me,  but  she  was  looking  at  the  water.  Then,  without  saying  a  word,  she  dismounted  from  the  truck-from  the  right  side,  since  the  left  door  wouldn't  open.  She  was  wearing  a  longdark  dress,  much  like  the  one  she'd  been  wearing  the  first  time  I  saw  her,  and  she  moved  through  the  bushes  andweeds  with  the  same  graceful  bearing.  She  walked  into  the  water  until  it  was  deep  enough  for  that  sort  of  curving  plunge  you  can  make  even  from  the  oozy  bottom  ofa  farm  pond;  and  when  she  came  to  the  surface  I  saw  first  her  hair,  wreathed  in  seaweed,  and  then  her  face  and  shoulders,  green  wreaths  hanging  from  the  shoulders,  too.  She  was  Botticellf's  &quot;Spring&quot;  and  a  draped  version  of  his  &quot;Birth  of  Venus&quot;  as  well.  How  odd  itis  that  I,  in  fum-  bling  for  words  to  de-  scribe  the  effect  on  me  of  the  Wilcoxes,  look  to  art  and  literature  and  royalty,  subjects  that  I  am  conversant  with  be-  cause  of  my  profession,  but  that  no  teacher  expects  to  encounter  in  his  daily  life!  I  real-  ly  can't  say  what  she  was,  caught  up  as  I  was  by  the  gaunt  figure  rising  from  the  water.  All  I  can  say  is  that  I  had  never  before  seen  such  an  expression  of  rapture-a  look  of  joy  so  intense  it  struck  me  as  mysterious.  She  stood  upright  in  the  muck,  the  water  drip-  ping  from  the  seaweed  in  her  hair,  and  she  said,  in  that  accent  which  years  be-  fore  had  reminded  me  of  the  Queen  of  England,  &quot;There  is  more  to  life  than  suffering  and  taxes!&quot;  Such  a  clich\xc3\xa9!  But  it  was  as  if  those  words  had  never  been  spoken  before.  I  was  astonished  and  had  to  look  away  from  her,  I  didn't  want  her  to  see  my  face,  to  see  the  tears  in  my  eyes,  and  Ileft  her  there  and  crossed  the  road  to  the  safety  of  my  old  farmhouse.  "