 b"MY  mother  told  me  that  when  she  was  a  girl  her  hair  was  golden  as  the  summer  sun,  smooth  and  shiny  as  silk,  sweet  and  fresh  as  new  hay,  thick  and  wavy  as  a  yellow  sea  rolling  down  to  her  waist-  something  like  that.  I  never  saw  this  beautiful  golden  stuff  because  it  all  fell  out  when  I  was  born.  &quot;I  could  pull  it  out  by  the  handful,&quot;  my  mother  told  me,  and  I  wanted  to  ask  her  why  she  didn't  keep  her  hands  to  herself  and  leave  her  hair  on  her  head  where  it  be-  longed,  but  I  didn't.  Anyway,  her  hair  fell,  or  was  pulled,  out  and  grew  back  in  mousy  brown  wisps,  hair  that  was  only  shiny  when  it  was  wetand  never  grew  past  her  chin.  What  a  shock  this  must  havebeen  for  her:  something  like  the  shock  experienced  by  Marie  An-  toinette  when  her  hair  turned  white  overnight  during  the  French  Revolu-  tion.  To  lose  one's  hair,  to  lose  one's  crown,  not  to  mention  one's  head-all  are  losses  beyond  recovery,  beyond  the  consolations  of  this  world.  In  my  moth-  er's  case,  I  can't  help  but  feel  that  my  birth  scarcely  mitigated.  Did  she  ask  to  trade  her  hair  for  a  baby?  There  she  was,a  young  woman  in  the  prime  of  life,  with  a  healthy  head  of  hair;  then  suddenly  she  was  a  mother,  a  partially  bald  Older  Woman  with  a  totally  bald  baby  in  her  arms.  My  mother  told  me  I  was  bald  when  I  was  born.I  am  sure  she  was  not  a  bald  baby,  though.  I  can  see  her  emerging  from  the  womb  with  golden  hair  down  to  her  precocious  in-  fantine  waist.  All  that  hair  had  to  start  sometime.  Still,  I  wonder  where  she  got  it-certainly  not  from  Aer  mother,  my  grandmother,  whose  hair  was  a  gray  grown  so  weary  of  this  world  it  had  given  up  the  ghost  of  any  color.  I  was  just  a  girl,  and  my  mother  simply  told  me  the  facts:  &quot;When  you  were  born,  my  hair  came  out  by  the  handful.&quot;  Shenever  said  it  was  my  fault.  Perhaps  she  never  thought  it  was.  Sometimes  I  blamed  myself,  but  I  never  felt  that  she  blamed  me.  My  mother's  effort  in  life  was  not  to  fight  a  thing  but,  always,  to  live  with  it.  So  she  lived  with  her  brown  hair  as  she  had  lived  with  her  yellow  hair;  she  accepted  brown  hair  as  her  fate  and  never  talked  about  the  way  it  made  her  feel.  My  mother  never  talked  about  the  way  she  felt;  and  I  never  told  her  how  I  felt,  because  I  thought  she  wouldn't  understand,  We  didn't  talk  much,  con-  sidering  the  fact  that  we  were  mother  and  daughter,  but  then  what  is  there  to  talk  about  when  you  live  in  the  same  housewith  someone?  Perhaps  my  mother  had  nothing  to  say.  I  was  her  fate,  and  she  lived  with  me.  I  think,  looking  back-although  she  never  said  so,  and  of  course  I  never  asked-that  living  with  me  she  came  to  like  me.  Why  not?  We  got  along  well  enough.  So  say  my  mother  liked  me.  But  she  didn't  like  Aer  mother,  a  woman  who  kept  her  mouth  closed  even  when  she  talked,  as  if  she  had  a  permanent  mouthful  of  pins.  My  mother  said  that,  finally,  the  day  after  my  grandmother's  funeral.  We  had  spent  all  day  in  trains  and  train  stations  and  taxicabs  coming  home  to  St.  Louis  from  [REDACTED]  We  had  been  away  threedays.  Our  suitcases  stood  by  the  front  door,  where  the  cab-  driver  had  put  them.  We  sat  in  the  liv-  ing  room  with  our  coats  still  on,  as  ifit  were  a  public  facility,  a  waiting  room.  My  mother's  hat  was  making  a  slow  progress  down  the  back  of  her  head.  &quot;You  know,&quot;  she  saidat  last,  looking  not  at  me  but  down  at  her  hands,  as  if  she  were  going  to  make  an  observation  on  the  state  of  her  gloves,  &quot;you  know,  I  never  liked  her.&quot;  I  still  had  the  sound  of  the  train  in  my  head,  and  I  was  not  sure  that  I  heard  what  I  heard.  &quot;I  couldn't  like  her,&quot;  said  my  moth-  er.  She  said  it  as  if  it  were  a  thing  past  hope  and  prayer,  past  all  worry,  be-  yond  her  doing  or  not  doing.  &quot;She  was  a  terrible  woman,  and  I  can't  be  sorry  she's  dead,&quot;  said  my  mother.  She  was  pulling  at  a  loose  thread  in  her  glove,  and  I  thought  that  if  she  wasn't  careful  she  would  rip  the  whole  glove  apart.  Then  she  looked  at  me.  &quot;She  never  in  her  life  did  anything,  except  wait  for  other  people  to  do  things.  She  never  did  anything  worth  doing  because  she  never  learned  how  to  do  anything.  I  don't-&quot;  but  my  mother  stopped.  And  then  she  said,  &quot;I  hope  you  never  feel  this  way  about  your  mother,  Sarah.&quot;  She  said  your  mother  as  if  my  moth-  er  was  someone  far  away-in  Minne-  apolis,  perhaps-someone  she  herself  had  never  met.  I  wanted  to  say  that  of  course  I  would  never  feel  that  way  about  my  mother  because  she  was  my  mother,  but  I  couldn't.  I  couldn't  say  anything.  It  was  a  terrible  gray  No-  vember  afternoon,  with  no  sun  and  a  thick  sky  of  clouds  that  wouldn't  give  up  either  rain  or  snow,  almost  dark  as  night  at  four  o'clock  in  the  afternoon.  We  sat  in  the  two  armchairs  by  the  window  and  drank  sherry  poured  from  the  crystal  decanter.  HE  year  I  was  twelve,  my  grand-  mother  came  down  from  Min-  neapolis  to  St.  Louis  for  a  visit.  I  had  never  seen  her  before,  except  inpic-  tures;  she  would  send  us  a  picture  of  herself  every  Christmas  in  her  Christ-  mas  card,  always  signed  &quot;Elvira  R.  Stewart,&quot;  the  whole  thing-Elvire  R.  Stewart.  She  arrived  one  September  afternoon  as  if  we  were  expecting  her,  which  we  weren't.  She  came  in  a  cab  straight  from  the  station,  and  she  didn't  say  how  long  she  was  going  to  stay.  It  was  raining  that  day,  and  the  great  black  umbrella  she  carried  dripped  on  the  hall  rug.  \xc2\xabWell,  Constance,&quot;  said  my  grand-  mother  after  my  mother  had  paid  the  cabdriver.  &quot;Well.  It  wasn't  raining  in  [REDACTED].&quot;  [REDACTED]  was  where  my  mother  was  born  and  raised.  She  came  to  St.  Louis  when  she  was  seventeen  and  never  went  back,  even  for  visits.  She  attended  [REDACTED]  University  on  a  scholarship,  graduated  cum  leude,  and  then,  as  the  fish  takesthe  worm  on  the  hook,  became  a  teacher  in  the  St.  Louis  school  system,  married  my  father,  also  a  teacher-she  taught  Latin,  he  taught  choral  music  (I  imagine  them  meeting  over  a  &quot;Stabat  Mater&quot;)-and  lived  happily  for  a  while  after.  The  rainy  time  my  Grandmother  Elvira  came  to  visit  was  the  year  after  my  father  died.  We  had  just  grown  used  to  living  in  the  house  without  him  when  she  came  and  we  had  to  get  used  to  her.  Maybe  she  thought  we  needed  her.  Maybe  she  didn't  think.  Maybe  she  only  came.  She  came,  and  it  was  raining,  and  she  acted  as  if  therain  was  our  fault.  It  wasn't!  And  if  it  wasn't  raining  in  [REDACTED],  I  want-  ed  to  say,  why  didn't  she  stay  there?  She  made  herself  at  home.  Herum-  brella  stood  all  that  fall  in  the  corner  of  the  front  hall,  never  put  away,  an  eyesore.  I  think  now  how  little  physi-  cal  effort  it  would  have  required  to  put  that  terrible  black  thing  in  the  closet  where  it  belonged;  but  no  one,  not  me,  not  my  mother,  not  Elvira  herself  cer-  tainly,  took  the  trouble.  So  there  it  stayed  in  its  corner  undisturbed-weak-  ly  furled,  all  the  wind  and  rain  knocked  out  of  it-upside  down,  like  a  sleeping  bat:  We  lived  in  a  house  with  a  lot  of  small  rooms  that  we  had  managed  to  fill  with  a  lot  of  small  things-my  father's  baby-grand  piano,  my  mother's  collection  of  Everyman's  Library  pock-  et-size  editions,  and  a  stunted  cocker  spaniel  named  Freddy;  we  had  alove  " b"seat  instead  of  a  couch  and  little  round  rugs  instead  of  carpeting.  We  had  a  large  store  of  odd  encumbrances,  port-  able  property  easier  to  break  than  to  move  from  one  place  to  another.  I  re-  member  a  great  many  dwarf  vases,  for  example-china  vessels  too  small  to  hold  any  healthy  flower  and  too  large  to  drink  tea  out  of-which  just  sat  around  collecting  dust.  (The  dusting  was  my  job,  and  sometimes  when  I  had  nothing  else  to  do,  I  did  it.)  In  that  house  we  had  too  many  rooms  and  not  enough  room;  in  fact,  some  of  the  rooms  could  not  even  be  given  opera-  tive  names  but  only  a  few  pieces  of  suggestively  ambiguous  furniture.  Thus,  a  chair  made  a  cubbyhole  a  sitting  room,  a  book  on  a  bookshelf  created  a  library,  and  so  on.  In  that  house  you  could  never  look  into  space  and  not  see  something.  Even  when  I  was  alone,  I  felt  crowded,  and  I  would  have  to  look  out  a  window  quickly  for  relief.  But  after  my  grandmother  came  it  was  impossible  to  be  alone  in  the  house,  because  she  was  always  there.  When  we  were  downstairs,  we  knew  she  was  upstairs;  when  I  was  in  my  room,  she  was  in  her  room,  close  on  the  other  &amp;  side  of  the  wall.  She  was  there  when  I  got  up  in  the  morning,  there  when  I  came  home  from  school  in  the  after-  noon,  and  there  when  I  went  to  bed  at  night.  Often  my  last  half-waking  thought  would  be  anawareness  of  her  presence,  a  heavy  impression  of  the  fact  grandmother.  Grandmother:  I  could  never  say  it  to  her  face,  but  neither  could  I  imagine  calling  her  anything  else,  like  Grandma  or,  dear  God,  Granny.  So  most  of  the  time  I  didn't  call  her  anything.  I  didn't  talk  to  her  much  anyway;  I  never  knew  what  to  say.  What  could  I  say?  It  was  as  if  I  had  been  asked  to  address  remarks  to  the  law  of  gravity.  When  I  had  friends  over  to  visit,  I  would  say,  &quot;My  grand-  " b"mother  is  upstairs.&quot;  I  wanted  to  hear  how  it  sounded:  &quot;My  grand-  mother  is  upstairs.&quot;  Did  it  sound  believ-  able?  But  my  friends  would  wait  to  hear  more;  they  would  turn  it  into  a  question:  &quot;Your  grandmother  is  upstairs?&quot;  She  did  seem  to  spend  most  of  her  time  upstairs  in  her  room.  I'll  never  know  how  shepassed  all  those  long  days,  whether  she  read,  or  slept,  or  played  solitaire,  or  wrote  letters-the  room  did  have  a  nice  little  table  she  could  have  used  as  a  desk.  She  could  have  done  anything  while  my  mother  and  I  were  gone;  perhaps  she  spent  her  days  roaming  from  place  to  place,  coming  downstairs  and  climb-  ing  back  up,  walking  from  room  to  room,  or  even,  taking  her  um-  brella  with  her  and  putting  it  back  when  she  came  home,  wan-  dering  the  streets  in  search  of  new  sensa-  tion.  But  she  was  al-  ways  home  when  we  got  home.  I  could  feel  it.  I  could  tell  she  was  upstairs  listening  when  I  prac-  ticed  the  piano  in  the  afternoon;  the  notes  I  played  came  back  at  me,  out  of  sequence,  not  music,  and  I  knew  that  I  was  hearing  what  she  was  hearing.  Sometimes  my  mother  and  I  had  rec-  ords  on  the  phonograph.  When  we  played  &quot;The  Magic  Flute,&quot;  the  Queen  of  the  Night's  aria  was  like  a  tennis  ball  bouncing  from  the  first  floor,  where  we  were,  to  the  second  floor,  where  she  was,  and  back  down.  I  hard-  ly  recognized  my  own  voice  when  my  grandmother  was  in  the  room,  and  Freddy's  round  cocker-spaniel  bark  grew  strange  and  sharp.  My  grandmother  came  to  the  din-  ing-room  table  every  night  at  six  o'clock  and  waited  for  dinner.  She  had  lived  in  a  boarding  house  for  forty  years  and  was  used  to  regular-that  is  to  say,  punctually  attended-meals;  so  every  evening  she  came  downstairs  and  sat  atthe  empty  table  until  dinner  ap-  peared.  Often  she  had  to  wait  quite  a  while,  because  my  mother  needed  time  to  collect  herself  after  a  day  spent  writ-  ing  Latin  verbs  on  the  blackboard.  My  mother  would  have  her  sherry,  and  sit  in  the  chair  by  the  window  looking  out  at  whatever  she  happened  to  see,  not  thinking  about  dinner,  not  thinking  about  anything,  but  only  clearing  her  head  of  the  long  bad  day.  My  grand-  mother  would  walk  past  her  on  the  way  to  the  dining  room.  Once,  my  mother  said  to  her  as  she  walked  by,  &quot;Would  you  like  some  sherry,  Mother?&quot;  and  my  grandmoth-  er  answered,  &quot;No  thank  you&quot;-zo  thank  you,  as  if  she  were  snipping  thread  with  dull  scissors.  Sometimes  my  grandmother  filled  a  teapot  and  sat  atthe  bare  table  drinking  cups  of  hot  water-plain  hot  water  because  she  did  not  drink  coffee,  tea,  Postum,  or  alcoholic  beverages.  It  was  dinnertime,  and  she  expected  to  eat,  but  she  didn't  cook.  All  those  years  in  a  boarding  house:  my  mother  spent  her  childhood  in  a  boarding  house  because  my  grandmoth-  er  didn't  cook  or  keep  house.  So  now  my  grandmother  waited  at  the  table.  When  it  grew  dar k,  I  would  sometimes  be  moved  by  pity  and  awe  to  turn  on  the  dining-room  light.  Finally,  my  mother  would  say,  &quot;Well,  I  guess  it's  time  to  think  about  dinner,&quot;  and  she  would  go  intothe  kitchen  and  cook  something.  It  would  never  take  long;  my  moth-  er's  idea  ofa  perfect  meal  was  lamb  chops  and  baked  potatoes,  with  ice  cream  for  dessert.  She  would  bring  it  in  when  it  was  ready,  and  we  would  eat  it.  She  never  apologized  or  explained;  she  only  brought  it  in  and  served  it.  There  was  no  conversation.  My  mother  sat  at  the  head  of  the  table,  my  grand-  mother  sat  at  the  foot  of  the  table,  and  I  passed  the  plates.  &quot;Would  you  like  some  more,  Mother?&quot;  my  mother  would  ask;  and  my  grandmother  would  answer,  &quot;No  thank  you.&quot;  Once,  she  said,  &quot;Yes,  please.&quot;  It  was  on  my  twelfth  birthday,  and  we  had  cake  for  dessert  to  mark  the  day.  It  was  not  homemade  cake,  of  course-  I  don't  think  my  mother  ever  baked  a  cake  in  her  life-but  a  spice  cake  with  hazelnuts  from  the  bakery.  This  was  my  mother's  favorite;  she  bought  it  every  time  an  occasion  seemed  to  call  for  cake,  and  although  it  wasn't  choco-  late,  it  was  still  cake,  and  I  could  eat  " b"it  if  I  couldn't  quite  like  it.  That  night,  for  my  birthday,  she  put  candles  on  the  cake,  twelve  candles  so  crowded  that  they  seemed  to  burn  in  one  bright  flame.  She  had  neglected  to  put  the  candles  in  candleholders,  and  I  was  afraid  that  the  fire  would  melt  the  frosting.  Indeed,  I  thought  I  saw  a  hazelnut  slipping  down  the  side  of  the  cake,  driven  from  its  hazelnut  alpine  height  by  the  tropical  candle  heat.  But  I  blew  the  candles  out  in  one  breath,  and  it  was  all  right.  We  ate  without  talking,  as  usual.  The  only  topic  that  offered  itself  was  the  cake,  and  I,  for  one,  had  nothing  to  say  about  hazelnuts.  Then  my  mother  said,  &quot;Would  you  like  another  piece,  Mother?&quot;  and  my  grandmother  answered,  &quot;Yes,  please.&quot;  I  turned  and  stared.  I  wanted  her  to  say  it  again  so  that  I  could  see  what  yes,  Please  looked  like  in  comparison  to  no  thank  you.  Her  glasses  caught  the  light  from  the  chandelier,  so  that  her  eyes  seemed  to  shine  blindly,  not  like  her  eyes  at  all,  and  she  sat  with  her  hands  folded  in  her  lap  like  a  napkin,  as  if  there  were  no  such  words  as  yes,  please.  &quot;Cut  your  grandmother  another  piece,&quot;  my  mother  said-it  was  my  birthday  and  I  had  the  cake  knife.  I  cut  the  best  I  could,  a  piece  that  only  fell  apart  a  little  when  I  put  it  on  the  plate.  &quot;Thank  you,  Sarah,&quot;  my  grand-  mother  said,  and  when  she  said  my  name,  Serah,  it  was  like  a  bell  tolling.  Sarah.  That  was  the  first  time  a  birth-  day  made  me  feel  old.  HE  leaves  fell  off  the  trees,  and  my  motherand  I  raked  them  into  piles.  Winter  would  come  that  year  the  way  it  always  came.  Time  was  passing  despite  the  fact  that  my  grand-  mother  sat  in  her  chairafter  dinner,  still  and  heavy  enough  to  slow  the  tick  of  the  clock.  My  mother  began  to  read  novels.  She  brought  home  great  stacks  of  them  from  the  library-more  books  than  anyone  could  read  in  the  two-  week  loan  period-like  a  squirrel  hoard-  ing  acorns  for  a  long  winter.  In  the  evening  now  she  looked  out  the  win-  dow  until  it  was  too  dark  to  see  any-  thing,  and  then  she  opened  up  her  book  and  read  until  she  couldn't  read  any  more.  She  would  read,  and  I  would  pre-  tend  to  do  my  homework.  My  grand-  mother  sat  in  the  big  chair  with  the  padded  armrests,  and  Freddy  slept  on  one  of  the  little  round  rugs.  The  chair  with  the  padded  armrests  had  been  his  chair  before  my  grandmother  came.  So  we  sat,  our  chairs  forming  some-  thing  like  a  circle,  as  if  pulled  around  a  fire;  but  there  was  no  fire,  and  the  circle  was  accidental.  One  night,  as  we  sat,  my  mother  was  reading  Galsworthy  and  my  grandmother  was  doing  some  sort  of  handiwork,  produc-  ing  an  unsightly  red  wool  worm  by  manipulating  yarn  and  a  spool.  Heaven  forbid  that  she  make  anything  useful,  like  a  sock.  So  we  sat,  and  there  was  no  sound.  Then  my  grandmother  said,  &quot;Constance.&quot;  &quot;Constance,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;I  will  need  my  breakfast  an  hour  earlier  tomorrow  so  that  I  can  get  to  the  station  to  catch  my  train.&quot;  My  train:  she  said  it,  and  my  led  to  train  as  surely  as  the  parlor  car  leads  to  the  dining  car.  Where  had  it  been  all  these  months,  her  train?  My  mother  said,  &quot;Of  course,  Moth-  er,&quot;  as  if  her  mother  often  breakfasted  early  in  order  to  catch  her  train.  Then  my  grandmother  went  back  to  her  yarn  and  my  mother  read  her  book,  and  I  stared  at  the  light  bulb  in  the  lamp  un-  til  I  saw  large  white  spots.  The  next  morning,  it  was  so  dark  that  if  my  mother  had  not  said  &quot;Morn-  ing&quot;  when  she  woke  me,  I  would  nev-  er  have  known.  My  grandmother  came  to  the  table  wearing  her  hat  and  gloves.  She  laid  the  gloves  by  her  plate,  but  her  hat  was  not  so  easily  detachable  and  she  left  it  on  her  head.  She  was  just  brush-  ing  the  crumbs  from  her  lap  onto  the  rug  when  outside  somewhere  in  the  dark  a  horn  honked.  I  remember  my  sur-  prise  that  the  sound  could  come  to  us  so  clearly  through  the  pitch-black  morning.  My  grandmother  stood  up.  &quot;Good-  bye,  Constance,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Goodbye,  Sarah.&quot;  She  said  her  goodbyes  as  she  might  offer  her  hand  for  a  handshake-  goodbye  flat  as  a  board  left  over  from  building  a  house.  The  invisible  horn  honked  again,  and,  taking  up  her  um-  brella,  she  stepped  out  the  door  to  the  cab  that  was  to  take  her  to  the  station,  where  she  would  catch  the  train  for  [REDACTED].  'The  front  door  closed  hard,  and  the  brass  knocker  knocked  like  an  echo.  &quot;Eat  your  oatmeal,  Sarah,&quot;  said  my  mother.  She  had  nev-  er  told  me  to  eat  my  oatmeal  before.  I  ate  it,  and  it  was  terrible.  Some  years  later  my  mother  told  me,  &quot;You  know,  Sarah,  she  never  actually  said  she  was  leaving,  she  only  said  she  wanted  breakfast  early  so  that  she  could  get  to  the  station  to  catch  her  train.&quot;  &quot;Didn't  you  ask  her?&quot;  I  said;  and  my  mother  said,  &quot;No.&quot;  "