 b"FOR  almost  ten  years  after  the  wedding  Reb  Yomtov's  wife,  Menuha,  did  not  bear  a  child.  Already  it  was  rumored  in  Frampol  that  she  was  barren  and  a  divorce  was  imminent.  But  she  became  pregnant  and  both  Yomtov  and  Menuha  re-  ferred  to  the  coming  child  as  &quot;she.&quot;  The  father  wanted  a  girl  because  the  Gemara  says,  &quot;A  daughter  first  is  a  good  omen  forthe  children  to  come.&quot;  The  mother  wanted  a  daughter  be-  cause  she  had  it  in  mind  to  name  her  after  her  dead  mother,  When  she  en-  tered  her  late  months,  her  belly  didn't  become  high  and  pointy  but  round  and  broad-a  sign  that  she  was  carrying  a  female  child.  Accordingly,  she  pre-  pared  a  layette  of  little  shirts  and  jack-  ets  festooned  with  lacework  and  em-  broidery,  and  a  pillow  with  ribbons.  The  father  put  aside  in  a  box  the  first  gulden  toward  a  dowry.  Actually,  the  parents  had  other  rea-  sons  for  wanting  a  daughter.  Reb  Yomtov,  who  was  a  Talmudic  scholar  entrusted  with  removing  the  impure  fat  and  veins  from  kosher  meat,  had  the  soul  of  a  female.  When  he  prayed,  he  didn't  appeal  so  much  to  the  Al-  mighty  as  to  the  Shechinah,  the  female  counterpart  of  God.  According  to  the  cabala,  the  virtues  of  men  bring  about  the  union  of  God  and  the  Shechinah  as  well  as  the  copulations  of  angels,  cher-  ubim,  seraphim,  and  sacred  souls  in  Heaven.  Full  union  on  high  will  take  place  only  after  the  redemption,  the  coming  of  the  Messiah.  In  the  midst  of  the  Eighteen  Benedictions  Yomtov  would  exclaim,  &quot;Oh,  Mama!&quot;  When  he  was  still  a  boy  studying  the  Penta-  teuch  in  cheder,  he  was  drawn  more  to  the  matriarchs  than  to  the  patriarchs.  He  preferred  to  glance  into  such  vol-  umes  as  the  &quot;Ze'enah  u-Re'enah&quot;  and  &quot;The  Lamp  of  Light&quot;  rather  than  the  Gemara,  the  commentaries,  and  the  Responsa.  Yomtov  was  small  and  stout,  with  a  sparse  beard  and  small  hands  and  feet.  At  home  he  wore  silk  dress-  ing  gowns  and  slippers  with  pom-poms.  He  curled  his  earlocks,  primped  before  the  mirror,  and  carried  all  kinds  of  trinkets-a  carved  snuffbox,  a  pearl-  handled  penknife,  and  a  little  ivory  hand,  a  charm,  left  him  by  a  grand-  mother.  On  Simchas  Torah  or  during  banquets  he  didn't  drink  strong  spirits  but  demanded  sweet  brandy.  The  peo-  ple  made  fun  of  him.  &quot;You're  a  softy,  Yomtov!  Worse  than  a  woman.&quot;  Well,  for  all  that  Menuha  and  Yomtov  expected  a  girl,  the  powers  that  decide  such  things  saw  to  it  that  they  had  a  boy.  True,  the  midwife  made  a  mistake  and  announced  to  the  mother  that  the  baby  was  a  girl,  but  she  soon  acknowledged  her  mistake.  Me-  nuha  grew  terribly  upset  that  between  a  yes  and  a  no  a  daughter  had  turned  into  a  son.  Yomtov  couldn't  bring  him-  self  to  believe  it  and  demanded  to  be  shown.  Just  the  same,  people  were  in-  vitedto  the  pre-circumcision  party  and  cheder  boys  came  to  recite  the  Shema.  Zissel  being  a  name  for  both  a  man  and  a  woman,  the  boy  was  named  that  after  a  great-aunt.  Since  his  gowns,  jackets,  and  bonnets  had  already  been  prepared,  the  infant  was  dressed  in  them,  and  when  the  mother  carried  Zissel  in  the  street,  strangers  assumed  he  was  a  girl.  It  is  the  custom  that  when  a  boy  turns  three  his  hair  is  cut,  he  is  wrapped  in  a  prayer  shawl  and  carried  to  cheder.  But  Zissel  had  such  elegant  curls  that  his  mother  refused  to  trim  them.  The  parents  carried  their  pre-  cious  offspring  to  cheder,  but  when  the  child  spied  theold  teacher  with  his  white  beard,  the  whipping  bench  and  the  whip  he  began  to  howl.  His  slate  with  the  alphabet  printed  for  him  to  read  was  strewn  with  candy,  raisins,  and  nuts  he  was  told  had  been  left  there  by  an  angel  from  Heaven,  but  the  child  would  not  be  appeased.  The  next  morn-  ing  he  was  brought  again  to  cheder  and  given  a  honey  cake.  This  time  Zis-  sel  carried  on  so  that  he  suffered  a  con-  vulsion  and  turned  blue.  Thereupon  the  parents  decided  to  keep  him  at  home  until  the  following  term.  A  rebbetzin  who  tutored  girls  at  home  taught  him  his  alphabet.  Zissel  studied  with  her  willingly.  The  rest  of  the  time  he  played  with  other  children.  Since  his  hair  was  long  and  he  didn't  go  to  cheder,  boys  Ry  his  age  avoided  him.  He  QB  spent  most  of  his  time  with  girls  and  enjoyed  their  ways  and  their  games.  The  boysplayed  with  sticks,  barrel  hoops,  and  rusty  nails.  They  fought,  got  dirty,  and  tore  their  clothes,  but  the  girls  picked  flowers  in  the  or-  chards,  sang  songs,  danced  in  circles,  rocked  their  dolls,  and  their  dresses  and  aprons  stayed  clean.  &quot;Why  can't  I  bea  girl?&quot;  he  asked  his  mother.  &quot;\xc2\xa9You  were  supposed  to  bea  girl,&quot;  his  mother  replied.  She  kissed  and  fondled  him  and  wove  his  hair  into  a  braid  for  a  joke,  and  added,  &quot;What  a  shame,  you  would  have  made  such  a  lovely  girl.&quot; Time,  which  often  is  the  implement  of  destiny,  did  its  work.  Zissel  grew  up  and  against  his  will  began  attending  cheder.  He  was  stripped  of  his  dresses  and  made  to  put  on  a  gaberdine,  pants,  a  ritual  garment,  and  a  skullcap.  He  was  taught  reading-the  Pentateuch,  Rashi's  commentaries,  and  the  Gemara.  The  matchmakers  early  began  to  plan  matches  for  him.  But  Zissel  remained  a  girlish  boy.  He  couldn't  stand  the  brawls  and  recklessness  of  the  daredevil  boys,  and  he  couldn't  climb  trees,  whis-  tle,  tease  dogs,  or  chase  the  community  billy  goat.  When  the  cheder  boys  quar-  relled  with  him,  they  called  him  &quot;girl&quot;  and  tried  to  lift  the  skirts  of  his  gaber-  dine  as  if  he  were  really  female.  The  teacher  and  his  assistant  refrained  from  whipping  him  because  the  few  times  they  did  he  promptly  burst  into  tears.  Also,  his  skin  was  delicate.  They  over-  looked  it  when  he  came  late  or  left  be-  forethe  others.  On  Fridays,  the  boys  accompanied  their  fathers  to  the  steam  bath.  In  the  summer,  they  bathed  in  the  river  and  learned  to  swim.  But  Zissel  was  bashful  and  never  undressed  before  strangers.  The  truth  was  that  he  suffered  anxiety  and  all  kinds  of  doubts.  He  already  was  convinced  that  to  be  a  male  was  unworthy  and  that  the  signs  of  manhood  were  a  disgrace.  When  no  one  was  home,  Zissel  put  on  his  mother's  dress,  her  high-heeled  shoes,  camisole,  and  bonnet,  and  ad-  mired  his  reflection  in  the  mirror.  On  Sabbaths  in  the  house  of  prayer,  he  gazed  up  at  the  section  where  the  women  sat  and  he  envied  them  look-  ing  on  from  behind  the  grate,  all     dressed  up  intheir  furs  and  jackets,  jewels,  colored  ribbons,  tassels,  and  frills  He  liked  their  to  pierce  his  own  with  a  needle.  His  parents  grasped  that  something  A  was  not  right  about  their  Zissel.  They  took  to  pun-  ishing  himand  calling  him  for  him.  He  often  locked  himself  in  his  room,  cried,  and  said  a  prayer  in  Yid-  dish  from  his  mother's  prayer  book  with  its  gold-embossed  covers  and  cop-  per  clasp.  His  tears  burned,  and  he  dabbed  his  eyes  with  the  edge  of  a  ker-  pierced  earlobes  and  tried  a  dunce.  This  only  made  things  worse  chief,  as  women  do.  -  HEN  Zissel  turned  fifteen,  matches  were  proposed  for  him  in  earnest.  A  quiet,  handsome  boy  and  an  only  son  besides,  he  was  offered  girls  from  wealthy  homes.  His  mother  occasionally  went  to  look  over  the  pro-  posed  brides  and  she  later  described  to  " b"Zissel  their  conduct  and  appearance.  One  was  tall  and  thin  with  a  deep  voice  and  a  wart  on  her  upper  lip;  an-  other  was  short  and  stout  with  big  breasts  and  almost  no  neck;  a  third  was  red-haired,  marked  with  freckles,  and  had  the  green  eyes  of  a  cat.  Each  time,  Zissel  found  some  pretext  not  to  become  engaged.  He  was  afraid  to  marry,  sure  that  a  wife  would  forsake  him  the  first  day  after  the  wedding.  Suddenly  he  began  to  find  virtues  in  his  own  sex.  He  saw  the  rascals  of  his  childhood  grown  into  respectable  youths  who  recited  the  Gemara  and  the  commentaries  in  a  chant,  discussed  serious  things  among  themselves,  paced  to  and  fro  across  the  study  house  in  deep  deliberation.  The  girls  on  the  oth-  er  hand  had  become  frivolous.  Their  laughter  was  loud;  they  flirted,  danced  wantonly,  and  it  seemed  to  Zissel  that  they  were  mocking  him.  Of  all  the  youths,  Zissel  liked  best  one  called  Ezriel  Dvorah's.  Ezriel  came  from  [REDACTED]  and  behaved  in  big-  city  fashion.  He  was  tall,  slim,  and  dark,  with  earlocks  tuckedbehind  his    ears  and  black  eyes  with  brows  that  grew  together  over  his  nose.  His  gaber-  dine  was  always  spotless,  and  he  pol-  ished  his  kid  boots  daily.  Although  he  wasn't  engaged  yet,  he  already  wore  a  silver  watch  in  his  vest  pocket.  The  marriage  brokers  assailed  him  with  prospective  matches,  and  the  other  stu-  dents  competed  to  be  his  study  partner.  When  Ezriel  spoke,  everyone  stopped  reading  the  lesson  to  listen.  When  it  was  time  to  take  a  walk  along  Syna-  gogue  Street,  several  boys  were  al-  ways  ready  to  accompany  him.  When  he  strolled  pastthe  marketplace,  girls  rushed  to  the  windows  and  stared  at  him  from  behind  drawn  curtains  as  if  he  had  just  arrived  from  [REDACTED].  It  happened  that  Ezriel,  who  was  two  years  older  than  Zissel,  chose  him  to  be  his  study  partner.  Zissel  ac-  cepted  it  as  an  honor.  On  Sabbaths  he  wished  it  were  the  weekday  again  so  that  he  might  study  together  with  Ezriel,  When  it  occurred  some  morn-  ing  that  Ezriel  didn't  show  up  at  the  study  house,  Zissel  walked  around  steeped  in  longing.  At  times,  Ezriel  took  Zissel  with  him  to  the  baker's,  where  they  ate  prune  rolls  for  their  second  breakfast.  Ezriel  confided  in  Zissel  about  the  matches  he  was  being  offered  and  told  him  stories  of  [REDACTED].  But  sometimes  Ezrielacted  friendly  toward  the  other  boys  and  then  Zissel  felt  a  pang  of  resentment-he  wanted  Ezriel  to  think  better  of  him  than  of  anyone  else.  After  a  while,  Ezriel  chose  another  partner.  Out  of  distress,  to  show  Ez-  riel  that  he  could  get  along  without  him,  Zissel  agreed  to  become  engaged.  The  bride-to-be  was  a  beauty  from  Tomaszow,  slender  and  fair,  with  blue  eyes  and  a  braid  hanging  to  her  waist.  Zissel's  mother  couldn't  stop  praising  her  good  looks.  The  articles  of  betroth-  al  were  signed  in  Tomaszow,  and  his  prospective  father-in-law,  a  timber  merchant,  gave  Zissel  a  gold  watch  as  an  engagement  present.  When  Zissel  came  home  after  the  betrothal,  the  youths  at  the  study  house  gave  him  a  friendly  reception.  He  treated  them  to  cake  and  whiskey,  as  was  the  custom,  and  they  offered  him  congratulations  and  questioned  him  dis-  creetly  about  the  bride.  They  had  heard  of  her  loveliness  and  envied  Zissel  his  good  luck.  Ezriel  joined  in  wishing  him  mazel  tov,  but  he  didn't  ask  for  details.  He  didn't  even  ask  Zissel  to  show  him  the  gold  watch  with  the  en-  graved  inscription  on  the  back.  Ezriel  was  on  the  verge  of  being  engaged  himself,  and  shortly  this  was  arranged.  'The  prospective  bride,  a  local  girl,  was  homely.  Her  father  was  fairly  well  off  and  had  promised  a  handsome  dowry;  still,  the  people  of  Frampol  wondered  why  a  gifted  youth  like  Ezriel  should  settle  for  such  a  match.  Apparently  Ezriel  regretted  his  decision,  too,  since  he  didn't  show  up  at  the  study  house  for  a  few  days  and  even  failed  to  treat  his  fellow-students  to  the  customary  whiskey  and  cake.  From  the  day  of  Zissel's  engagement,  Ezriel  had  grown  cool  toward  him  and  avoided  him.  Zissel  wanted  to  delay  his  marriage  a  year  or  two;  making  Ezriel  jealous  was  sweeter  to  him  than  becoming  the  husband  of  the  Tomaszow  belle.  But  the  bride's  parents  were  in  a  hurry  for  the  wedding,  since  the  bride  had  al-  ready  turned  eighteen.  Zissel  was  taken  to  Tomaszow  and  the  wedding  was  held.  During  the  Virtue  Dance  when  first  the  bride,  then  the  groom  was  led  to  the  wedding  chamber,  Zissel  was  overcome  by  trembling.  With  hesitation  he  went  to  his  bride  lying  in  the  bed,  but  he  could  not  do  what  he  knew  he  was  supposed  to.  In  the  morning  the  " b"women  came  to  examine  the  sheet  and  perform  the  Kosher  Dance  of  Con-  summation;  they  did  not  find  what  they  were  looking  for.  The  following  night,  attendants  again  escorted  the  couple  to  their  wed-  ding  bed,  accompanied  by  musicians  and  the  wedding  jester,  and  this  was  repeated  on  each  of  the  Seven  Days  of  the  Benedictions.  Since  both  sets  of  par-  ents  felt  that  a  spell  had  been  cast  over  the  couple,  the  groom's  mother  went  to  the  rabbi,  who  gave  her  an  amulet,  an  amber  over  which  an  incantation  had  been  said,  and  a  list  of  suggestions.  The  bride's  mother  secretly  consulted  a  witch,  who  supplied  her  own  devices.  In  fact,  the  cures  recommended  by  both  the  rabbi  and  the  witch  were  the  same.  ITTHIN  a  few  weeks  Ezriel  married,  but  his  match,  too,  was  unsuccessful.  Soon  after  the  wedding  he  and  his  bride  began  to  quarrel,  and  within  a  fewmonths  Ezriel  went  back  to  his  mother.  One  day  Zissel,  who  was  boarding  at  his  father-in-law's  in  Tomaszow,  received  a  letter  from  Ezriel  in  Frampol,  and  as  he  read  it  he  marvelled.  In  an  elaborate  hand-  writing  and  a  Hebrew  full  of  flowery  phrases  Ezriel  described  his  anguish;  he  called  Zissel  &quot;my  beloved  and  the  desire  of  my  soul,&quot;  he  reminded  him  of  how  pleasant  it  had  been  in  the  old  days,  when  they  had  studied  the  Gemara,  strolled  down  Synagogue  Street  together,  eaten  prune  rolls  at  the  baker's,  and  confided  to  each  other  the  secrets  of  their  hearts.  If  he  had  the  fare,  he  would  come  to  Tomaszow  as  swiftly  as  an  arrow  shot  from  a  bow.  When  Zissel  finished  reading,  he  was  overcome  with  joy  and  he  forgave  Ezriel  all  his  past  neglect.  He  answered  in  a  long  letter  full  of  words  of  affec-  tion,  confessed  that  his  wedding  had  caused  him  heartache  and  shame,  and  so  that  Ezriel  could  come  to  visit  him  he  enclosed  a  banknote  he  took  from  his  dowry  without  telling  his  father-in-  law.  Without  business  in  Tomaszow,  Ez-  riel  hadno  excuse  to  go  there,  but  let-  ters  between  the  friends  went  back  and  forth  frequently.  Ezriel  was  an  ardent  correspondent.  His  words  often  rhymed  and  were  full  of  insinuations  and  puns.  Zissel  answered  in  the  same  vein.  Both  quoted  passages  from  the  Song  of  Songs.  They  compared  their  love  to  that  between  Jacob  and  Joseph  or  David  and  Jonathan.  The  fact  was,  they  yearned  one  forthe  other.  Ezriel  began  to  call  Zissel  Zissa.  This  correspondence  continued  until  they  decided  to  meet  at  an  inn  lying  between  Tomaszow  and  Frampol.  Ez-  riel  told  his  mother  that  he  was  going  to  inquire  about  a  teaching  position.  He  took  along  his  prayer  shawl  and  phylacteries  and  a  satchel.  It  was  hard  for  Zissel  to  find  an  excuse  for  leaving,  and  he  therefore  decided  on  a  trick.  In  the  morning,  after  his  father-in-law  had  gone  to  his  busi-  ness,  his  mother-in-law  had  gone  to  the  drygoods  store,  and  his  dainty  wife  had  gone  to  the  butcher  shop,  Zissel  opened  the  wardrobe,  put  on  a  pair  of  women's  drawers,  a  camisole,  a  dress,  and  shoes  with  high  heels.  He  draped  a  shawl  over  his  shoulders  and  covered  his  head  with  a  kerchief.  His  beard  had  not  yet  grown.  When  he  caught  a  glimpse  of  himself  in  the  mirror,  he  hardly  knew  his  own  face  and  he  was  certain  that  no  one  would  recognize  him.  The  Spirit  of  Perversity  had  whis-  pered  in  his  ear  that  he  shouldn't  be  a  fool-to  take  from  his  father-  in-law  and  mother-in-law  whatever  was  handy.  After  brief  deliberation,  he  obeyed.  He  took  the  dowry  from  its  place  of  safekeeping,  along  with  his  wife's  jewelry,  and  hid  them  in  a  hand  basket,  which  he  covered  with  a  cloth.  Then  he  went  outside.  When  the  women  in  the  street  saw  him,  they  as-  sumed  that  a  strange  woman  had  come  to  town  on  a  visit.  Thus,  Zissel  walked  past  the  market  and  saw  from  afar  his  wife  pushing  her  way  toward  the  butcher's  block.  He  pitied  her,  but  he  had  already  bro-  ken  the  commandments  that  forbid  a  man  todress  in  women's  clothes  and  to  steal,  and  he  hurried  along.  On  Church  Street,  Zissel  found  a  peasant  cart  heading  for  Frampol  and  for  a  trifle  the  peasant  let  him  ride  as  far  as  the  inn.  There  Zissel  got  off  and  asked  for  Ezriel.  He  said  that  he  was  Ezriel's  wife  and  the  proprietor  ex-  claimed,  &quot;He  just  told  me  he  was  about  to  meet  his  partner!&quot;  &quot;A  wife  is  the  best  partner,&quot;  Zissel  replied,  and  the  innkeeper  pointed  to  Ezriel's  room.  Ezriel  was  pacing  back  and  forth  as  is  the  way  of  the  impatient.  When  Zissel  came  in,  Ezriel  looked  with  be-  wilderment  at  the  young  woman  who  was  smiling  at  him  so  coquettishly.  &quot;Who  are  you?&quot;  he  asked,  and  Zissel  answered,  &quot;You  don't  know?  I'm  Zissa!&quot;  They  fell  into  each  other's  arms,  kissed,  and  laughed  in  rapture.  They  vowed  never  to  part  again.  After  a  while  Ezriel  said,  &quot;It  wouldn't  be  safe  to  stay  around  here  too  long.  When  your  in-laws  find  out  what  you've  done  " b"they'll  send  police  after  you  and  we  would  both  fall  into  the  net.&quot;  So  next  morning  they  bade  farewell  to  the  innkeeper,  telling  him  they  were  going  back  to  Frampol.  Instead,  they  turned  off  into  a  side  road  and  hired  a  wagon  to  take  them  to  Krainik,  and  from  Krafnik  they  went  on  to  [REDACTED].  Since  they  had  money,  and  jewelry  besides,  they  quickly  rented  an  apart,  ment  in  [REDACTED],  bought  furniture  and  everything  needed  to  maintain  a  house-  hold.  [REDACTED]  is  a  big  city  andno  one  asked  the  couple  who  they  were  or  checked  whether  Ezriel's  wife  went  to  the  ritual  bath.  Thus  the  pair  lived  for  several  years  together,  indulging  them-  selves  to  their  hearts'  desire.  In  Fram-  pol  and  Tomaszow,  the  two  missing  husbands  were  sought  for  a  time,  but  since  they  couldn't  be  found,  it  was  assumed  that  they  had  gone  off  some-  where  to  the  other  side  of  the  ocean.  Both  wives  were  adjudged  deserted.  Zissel,  known  as  Zissa,  made  friends  with  matrons  and  even  maidens.  They  gave  him  advice  on  cooking,  baking,  sewing,  darning,  and  embroidering.  They  also  confided  their  womanly  secrets  to  him.  Zissel's  beard  had  be-  gun  to  sprout  by  now,  but  it  was  mere-  ly  a  fuzz.  He  plucked  some  of  it,  singed  the  rest,  and  from  time  to  time  com-  mitted  the  transgression  of  shaving.  In  order  that  the  women  shouldn't  become  suspicious,  Zissel  told  them  that  he  had  stopped  menstruating  early,  which  was  the  reason  he  couldn't  become  preg-  nant.  They  comforted  their  poor  sister,  shed  a  tear  over  her  fate,  and  kissed  her.  Zissel  became  so  involved  with  his  female  cronies  he  often  forgot  what  he  was.  He  turned  into  an  expert  cook  and  prepared  broths  and  groats  for  Ezriel  and  baked  him  delicious  pastries.  Each  Friday  he  made  the  challah  offer-  ing,  said  the  benediction  over  the  can-  dles,  went  on  the  Sabbath  to  the  wom-  en's  section  of  the  synagogue,  as  women  must,  and  read  the  Pentateuch  in  Yiddish.  The  money  Zissel  had  stolen  from  his  father-'n-law  was  finally  exhausted.  Ezriel  opened  a  store  and  at  first  it  appeared  that  he  might  prosper,  but  he  sat  for  days  behind  the  counter  and  not  a  customer  showed  up.  When  one  did  come  in,  it  was  to  demand  goods  at  less  than  cost.  No  matter  how  Ezriel  strained,  he  couldn't  eke  out  a  living.  He  developed  wrinkles  in  his  forehead  and  sprouted  gray  threads  in  his  beard.  He  fell  into  debt.  Things  went  so  bad-  ly  it  came  to  pass  that  Zissel  didn't  have  enough  to  celebrate  the  Sabbath  properly,  and  he  was  forced  to  make  Sabbath  dinner  without  meat  or  pud-  ding.  On  Fridays,  he  left  pots  of  water  boiling  on  the  stove  sothatthe  neigh-  bors  would  think  that  Sabbath  dishes  were  cooking.  Tears  ran  down  his  face.  Following  the  Friday-night  serv-  ices,  Ezriel  came  home  from  the  synagogue  in  a  patched  gaberdine  and  a  ratty  fur  hat.  In  a  sorrowful  voice  he  began  to  chant  the  hymn  of  greet-  ing  the  angels  and  recite  the  &quot;Woman  of  Virtue.&quot;  Zissel  had  lit  the  candles  and  covered  the  table.  He  wore  a  Sab-  bath  dress  adorned  with  arabesques,  slippers,  white  stockings,  and  a  silk  head  kerchief.  He  gazed  into  a  Yiddish  prayer  book.  It  was  true  that  the  two  had  broken  the  law,  but  they  hadn't  abandoned  their  faith  in  God  and  the  Torah.  HEN  the  women  who  were  fond  of  Zissa  learned  that  Ezriel  was  on  the  verge  of  bankruptcy  and  that  Zissa's  pantry  was  empty,  they  be-  gan  to  seek  means  of  helping  the  cou-  ple.  They  collected  money  and  tried  to  give  it  to  Ezriel,  but  he  refused  to  accept  it,  as  is  the  habit  of  the  proud,  who  would  rather  suffer  than  hold  out  a  hand  for  assistance.  Zissel  would  have  accepted  the  money,  but  Ezriel  sternly  forbade  him  to  do  so.  When  her  friends  saw  that  Zissa  couldn't  be  helped  with  generosity,  they  offered  suggestions-that  Zissa  peddle  goods  door  to  door;  that,  since  she  was  so  versed  in  studies,  she  become  a  reb-  betzin  who  teaches  girls  to  write  a  let-  ter  in  Yiddish;  that,  being  such  a  mar-  vellous  cook,  she  open  a  soup  kitchen.  It  just  so  happened  that  the  attendant  at  the  local  ritual  bath  died  at  this  time,  which  seemed  to  Zissa's  chums  an  omen  that  she  had  been  fated  to  take  the  other's  place.  They  went  to  the  community  leaders  with  this  re-  quest,  and  when  women  persist  they  manage  to  get  their  way.  At  first  Zissa  refused  to  take  the  job,  but  Ezriel  had  to  have  someone  support  him.  Zissa  became  the  bath  attendant.  In  a  ritual  bathhouse,  the  attendant's  work  is  to  shave  the  women's  heads,  to  trim  their  fingernails  and  toenails,  to  scrub  and  clean  them  before  they  immerse  themselves.  The  attendant  is  also  responsible  for  seeing  to  it  that     her  charges  immerse  themselves  com-  pletely,  so  that  no  part,  even  the  shaved  scalp,  sticks  out.  The  attendant  also  lets  blood,  applies  leeches  and  cupping  glasses.  Because  the  women  are  on  such  intimate  terms  with  the  attendant,  they  reveal  to  her  the  most  private  matters  about  themselves,  their  hus-  bands,  and  their  families.  It  is  there-  fore  important  that  she  be  a  person  who  can  keep  her  lips  sealed.  She  needs  to  be  particularly  skilled  with  brides,  who  are  usually  bashful  and  often  frightened.  Well,  it  turned  out  that  Zissa  be-  came  the  most  adroit  bath  attendant  in  [REDACTED].  The  women  loved  it  when  she  attended  them  and  they  gossiped  with  her.  Zissa  was  especially  gentle  with  brides.  This  was  soon  known,  and  they  came  from  all  over  the  city.  Be-  sides  her  wages  Zissa  received  tips,  and  sometimes  on  the  occasion  of  a  mar-  riage  a  small  percentage  of  the  dowry.  Ezriel  could  now  sit  around  in  idleness.  He  tried  to  pass  time  playing  cards  but  this  wasn't  in  his  nature.  Gradually,  he  turned  into  a  glutton  and  a  slugabed.  He  would  wake  in  the  middle  of  the  night  to  eat  a  second  supper.  During  the  day  he  took  naps  under  thefeath-  erbed.  He  became  so  lazy  he  even  stopped  going  to  services.  He  was  not  yet  forty,  but  he  had  fallen  into  melan-  choly.  When  Zissel  came  home  from  the  ritual  bath  at  the  end  of  the  day,  he  tried  to  cheer  Ezriel  up  with  kind  words  and  tales  about  the  women,  but  instead  of  cheering  him  up  he  only  depressed  him  further.  Ezriel  accused  Zissel  of  having  accepted  his  mascu-  linity,  of  committing  treacherous  of-  fenses  against  him.  Sometimes  the  two  wrangled  all  night  and  at  times  came  to  blows.  The  words  they  uttered  dur-  ing  their  outbursts  and  while  making  up  astounded  them.  One  time  an  important  wedding  was  held  in  [REDACTED].  The  bride  was  a  ravish-  ing  virgin  of  seventeen,  the  daughter  of  a  rich  and  distinguished  family.  The  groom  was  a  wealthy  youth  from  Za-  mo\xc2\xa7\xc3\xa9.  It  was  said  that  the  groom  would  receive  as  a  wedding  present  a  silver  Chanukkah  lamp  with  stairs  to  climb  for  lighting  the  candles,  it  was  so  tall.  Well,  but  the  girl  was  shy  and  it  came  hard  for  her  mother  and  sisters-in-law  to  introduce  her  into  the  ways  of  woman-  hood.  Zissa  was  called  into  study  &quot;The  Pure  Well&quot;  with  the  bride,  and  pa-  tiently  to  instruct  her  in  her  wifely  du-  ties.  The  bride  quickly  grew  so  attached  to  Zissa  that  she  clung  to  her  as  to  a  sister.  On  the  night  before  the  wedding  she  came  to  immerse  herself  in  the  ritu-  " b"al  bath  where  Zissa  was  the  attendant.  Zissa  saw  to  it  that  the  old  habitu\xc3\xa9s  of  the  bath  didn't  tease  the  young  bride  or  mock  her,  as  they  often  did  new-  comers.  It  was  the  custom  for  musi-  clans  to  escort  the  prospective  bride  to  the  ritual  bath  and  to  play  for  her  on  that  special  night.  When  the  bride-Reizl  was  her  name-undressed  and  Zissel  saw  her  dazzling  flesh,  what  Ezriel  most  feared  came  to  be.  For  the  first  time  in  his  life  Zissel  felt  desire  for  a  woman.  Soon  desire  turned  to  passion.  He  tried  to  conceal  this  from  Ezriel  but  Ezriel  was  aware  that  a  change  had  come  over  Zissel.  Zissel  now  counted  the  days  until  Reizl  would  come  to  the  bath  again,  and  he  fretted  lest  she  promptly  become  pregnant  and  he  would  not  see  her  until  after  the  birth.  When  Reizl  was  there,  Zissel  devoted  so  much  time  to  her  that  it  aroused  resentment  among  the  other  matrons.  Reizl  herself  was  perplexed  by  the  bath  attendant's  attentiveness  and  sud-  denly  she  grew  ashamed  before  her.  As  the  Gemara  says,  &quot;'The  person  sees  not,  but  his  star  sees,&quot;  and  so  it  was  with  Reizl.  One  winter  day  a  blizzard  struck  [REDACTED]  the  like  of  which  its  oldest  residents  could  not  remember.  Wind  swept  the  snow  from  the  gutters,  heaped  it  in  piles  on  roofs,  pounded  it  against  windows,  howled  around  corners  as  if  a  thousand  witches  had  hanged  themselves.  Chimneys  col-  lapsed,  shutters  were  torn  off,  window-  panes  were  blown  from  their  frames.  Although  ovens  were  heated  and  no  wood  was  spared,  the  houses  were  al-  most  as  cold  inside  as  outside.  Women  due  to  cleanse  themselves  after  men-  struation  put  off  their  visit  to  the  ritual  bath  until  the  following  day.  Ezriel  warned  Zissel  not  to  leave  the  house  since  demons  were  afoot  outside,  but  Zissel  replied  that  the  bath  attendant  could  not  neglect  her  duties.  One  new-  ly  wed  woman  might  want  to  usethe  bath.  In  fact,  Zissel  knew  that  Reizl  was  scheduled  to  come  to  the  bath  that  evening.  Zissel  wrapped  himself  up,  took  a  stick  in  hand,  and  went  outside,  put-  ting  himself  at  God's  mercy.  The  wind  pushed  and  drove  him  along.  Finally  it  lifted  him  up  and  tossed  him  into  a  pile  of  snow.  As  he  lay  there,  a  sleigh  drawn  by  a  team  of  horses  came  by.  Inside  were  Reizl  and  her  husband,  both  wrapped  in  furs  and  covered  with  blankets.  Reizl  saw  the  plight  of  the  bath  attendant  and  called  to  the  coach-  man  to  stop.  In  short,  they  rescued  Zis-  sel  and  revived  him  with  spirits,  and  all  three  rode  on  to  the  bathhouse.  Reizl's  mother  had  begged  her  daugh-  ter  not  to  risk  her  life  by  going  out,  but  Reizl  and  her  husband  didn't  want  to  lose  a  night.  Her  husband  and  the  coachman  went  to  the  study  house  nearby  to  wait,  and  Reizl  was  turned  over  to  Zissel's  care.  That  evening  Reizl  was  the  only  woman  in  the  bathhouse,  and  she  was  afraid  of  the  dismal  powers  that  hold  sway  oversuch  places,  but  gradually  Zissa  calmed  her,  soaping  and  washing  her  gently  and  longer  than  was  usual.  From  time  to  time  the  bath  attendant  kissed  Reizl  and  addressed  her  in  terms  of  endearment.  After  Reizl  had  immersed  herself  and  climbed  the  steps,  ready  for  the  bath  attendant  to  wrap  her  in  a  towel  sheet  and  dry  her,  Satan's  voice  rang  in  Zissel's  ears:  &quot;Seize  the  while!  As-  sail  and  defile!&quot;  The  words  had  all  the  force  bestowed  upon  the  Tempter,  and  Zissel  hurled  himself  at  Reizl.  For  a  moment  Reizl  was  stricken  dumb  " b"with  terror.  Then  she  erupted  in  vio-  lent  screams,  but  there  was  no  one  to  hear  and  come  to  her  rescue.  As  they  struggled  they  fell  down  the  slippery  steps  into  the  water.  Zissel  tried  to  break  loose  from  Reizl,  but  in  her  frenzy  Reizl  would  not  let  go,  Their  heads  soonsank  to  the  bottom  of  the  bath;  only  their  feet  showed  on  the  surface  of  the  water.  HE  coachman  kept  going  from  the  study  house  to  the  sleigh  to  check  on  thehorses,  which  stood  cov-  ered  with  hides,  and  see  if  Reizl  had  come  from  the  bath.  The  wind  had  stopped  and  the  moon  had  emerged,  pale  as  the  face  of  a  corpse  after  ablu-  tion,  its  light  congealed  upon  the  shrouds  of  the  night.  According  to  the  coachman's  calcu-  lations,  it  was  past  time  for  Reizl  to  have  come  out,  and  he  went  to  discuss  her  absence  with  her  husband.  After  some  deliberation,  the  men  decided  to  go  into  the  bath  and  see  if  anything  could  be  wrong.  They  walked  through  the  anteroom,  calling  Reizl's  name.  The  echoes  of  their  voices  sounded  as     hollow  as  if  they  came  from  a  ruin.  They  went  on  into  the  room  where  the  ritual  bath  was  located.  Except  for  a  single  candle  flickering  in  an  earthen  holder  and  reflected  in  the  puddles  on  the  stone  floor,  theplace  was  empty.  Suddenly  the  husband  glanced  down  into  the  water  and  screamed.  'The  coachman  cried  out  in  a  terrible  shout.  They  pulled  the  bodies  from  the  water;  Reizl  and  Zissel  were  both  dead.  The  coachman  rushed  to  alarm  the  people,  and  the  neighborhood  filled  with  com-  motion  and  turmoil.  It  happened  that  two  members  ofthe  Burial  Society  were  warming  themselves  in  the  study  house.  When  they  removed  Zissa's  body,  a  fresh  tumult  erupted.  The  se-  cret  was  out  that  the  bath  attendant  was  male.  When  the  ruffians  in  a  tavern  close  by  realized  the  shameless  farce  Zissel  had  been  playing,  they  seized  whatever  weapon  they  could  find  and  ran  to  beat  Ezriel.  Ezriel  was  sitting  wrapped  in  his  caftan,  searching  his  soul.  It  was  cold  in  the  house  and  the  flame  of  the  candle  cast  ominous  shadows,  Al-  though  he  did  not  foresee  that  his  end  was  at  hand,  he  was  consumed  by  gloom.  Suddenly  he  heard  vio-  lent  voices,  heavy  steps  on  the  stairs,  the  crash-  ing  in  of  his  door.  Be-  fore  he  could  stand  up,  the  crowd  fell  upon  him.  One  man  tore  out  half  his  beard,  another  snatched  off  his  ritual  garment,  a  third  beat  him  with  a  cudgel.  Soon  his  limp  body  fell  forward  upon  his  at-  tackers.  Reizl  had  a  funeral  such  as  [REDACTED]  had  nev-  er  seen.  Ezriel  and  Zissel  were  quickly  put  torights  and  buried  behind  the  fence  late  at  night  without  anyone  to  follow  their  hearses  or  to  say  Kad-  dish.  Only  the  grave-  digger  recited  the  pas-  sages  which  are  said  while  the  corpse  is  cov-  ered  with  earth.  Odd-  ly  enough,  like  every  housewife  Zissel  had  put  aside  a  little  nest  egg,  which  the  mem-  bers  of  the  Burial  So-  ciety  found  among  the  Passover  dishes  and  used  as  payment  forthe  cleansing  and  the  plot.  The  mound  under  which  Ezriel  and  Zissel  lay  was  soon  overgrown  with  weeds.  But  one  morning  the  ceme-  tery  watchman  saw  a  board  there  with  an  inscription  from  the  Second  Book  of  Samuel:  &quot;Lovely  and  pleasant  in  their  lives  and  in  their  deaths  they  were  not  divided.&quot;  Who  put  the  board  up  was  never  discovered.  If  the  rains  haven't  washed  it  away,  mold  hasn't  rotted  it,  wind  hasn't  broken  it,  and  zealots  haven't  torn  it  out,  it  still  stands  there  to  this  day. "