 b"WHEN  I  was  thirteen,  I  wrote  to  the  Dalai  Lama.  I  had  been  ill  (more  seriously  than  I  knew),  and  in  the  weeks  while  I  re-  covered  my  strength  I  read  all  the  books  on  [REDACTED]  my  mother  could  find  in  the  local  libraries.  It  was  &quot;Lost  Horizon&quot;  that  started  me  off  -a  pa-  perback  edition  with  a  broken  spine.  The  only  other  title  I  recall  is  &quot;Twenty  Years  in  [REDACTED].&quot;  Once  while  I  was  alone  in  the  house,  I  tried  my  hand  at  carving  butter.  Before  anyone  came  home,  I  smoothed  the  butter  back  in  its  oblong  dish  and  put  it  away.  A  natural  linguist  (my  father  had  me  taught  French  and  German  by  the  Berlitz  method),  I  wondered,  and  worried,  about  the  correct  pronuncia-  tion  of  &quot;Om  man  padme  hum.&quot;  This  was  years  before  mantras  were  to  become  everyday  in  the  Western  world.  In  a  magazine  I  found  a  col-  or  photograph  of  a  lotus  flower.  I  pinned  it  to  my  bedroom  wall  and  stared  at  it,  imagining  the  jewel  it  contained.  My  dressing  gown  doubled  as  a  monk's  robe.  When  I  was  almost  better  and  allowed  to  get  up,  I  wrote  my  letter.  It  was  short  and  reveren-  tial,  and  it  contained,  between  my  greeting  and  my  homage,  a  polite  re-  quest  for  an  English-speaking  pen  friend.  I  searched  in  Pears  Cyclopaedia  forthe  correct  mode  of  address  for  the  Dalai  Lama.  The  information  was  lacking,  though  I  did  learn,  should  I  ever  need  to  know,  how  to  address  a  viscount,  a  marchioness,  or  the  Arch-  bishopof  Armagh.  I  settled  for  &quot;My  [REDACTED];  and  hoped  to  be  forgiven  if  I  had  committed  a  solecism-the  Dalai  Lama  was,  I  understood,  a  boy  of  my  own  age.  On  the  envelope,  beneath  his  title,  I  wrote,  &quot;The  Potala  Palace,  Lhasa,  [REDACTED].&quot;  There  was  consterna-  tion  at  the  post  office.  Nobody  knew  what  to  charge,  [REDACTED]  not  being  listed  under  international  postal  tariffs.  I  asked  for  stamps  appropriate  for  4368696e61,  and  added  three  more  halfpenny  stamps,  which,  if  memory  serves,  in   those  days  were  a  pleasant  emerald  green.  &quot;It  will  never  get  there,&quot;  the  counter  clerk  told  me.  &quot;The  coun-  try's  not  listed.&quot;  But  I  mailed  the  let-  ter,  confident  thatthe  extra  postage  would  generate  a  sense  of  urgency  and  expedition  in  the  mail,  Indeed,  it  was  eight  and  a  half  months  before  my  letter  was  returned  to  me,  marked  &quot;Undeliverable.&quot;  It  had  been  a  par-  ticularly  severe  winter,  I  concluded,  and  the  Sherpa  team  had  notgot  through.  By  now  I  was  fit  and  well  and  interested  in  cricket.  AT  eighteen  (cricket  having  palled),  I  fell  in  love  and  began  to  write  poems.  My  poems  were  tactile.  My  ample  girlfriend  wore  improbably  thick  coats,  but  in  the  local  gallery  there  was  a  statue  one  could  handle.  The  girl  respected  me  for  my  mind,  to  which  verse  (not  only  my  own)  ad-  hered  like  summer  bugs  toa  flypaper.  She  gave  me-and  for  this  I  forgave  herher  coats-the  &quot;Collected  Poems  1909-35&quot;  of  T.  S.  Eliot.  At  school  I  had  been  given  the  impression  that  Tennyson  had  been  the  last,  the  very  last,  of  English  poets.  I  wrote  to  Mr.  Eliot,  at  Faber  &amp;  Faber,  to  let  him  know  that  I,  too,  was  prac-  ticing  the  art.  My  letter  was  written  in  violet  ink  on  magenta  paper  and  was  sealed  in  an  envelope  of  faded  burgundy.  I  wrote  to  him  as  an  equal,  in  a  copperplate  hand  I  taught  myself  from  advertisements  for  Player's  No-Name  to-  bacco.  'The  writing  made  exquisite  use  of  the  space  available.  I  put  Eliot  right  on  a  few  points  concerning  some  snatches  of  French  verse  he'd  filched.  All  very  well,  I  said,  but  it  should  be  quoted  exactly,  if  at  all.  On  the  other  hand,  I  said,  I  defended  him  against  my  father's  criticism  that  there  was  no  particular  way  in  which  a  madman  shook  a  dead  geranium.  (Madmen,  my  father  had  said,  would  shake  a  dead  geranium,  or  dead  gerania,  in  much  the  same  fashion  as  sane  men  would.  &quot;You  miss  the  es-  sential  point,&quot;  I'd  told  my  father.)  It  was  a  very  long  time  before  I  heard  from  Eliot.  He  sent  my  letter  back,  having  made  pencil  squiggles  in  my  margins.  " b"&quot;Deliberate&quot;  and  &quot;De-  rivative,&quot;  he  marked  against  my  reference  to  Laforgue.  &quot;Thank  you,&quot;  he  wrote  adja-  cent  to  the  word  &quot;ge-  ranium.&quot;  By  this  time,  I  had  a  sense  of  my  callowness.  The  cop-  perplate  looked  as  false  as  it  was,  and  the  vio-  let  ink  made  me  sor-  rowful.  Eliot  had  been  kind  to  me.  I  was  grateful  to  him  and  scathing  of  myself.  I  put  the  letter  between  the  pages  of  Volume  II  of  my  father's  Mod-  ern  Carpenter,  Join-  er  and  Cabinet-maker,  where  all  the  impor-  tant  family  docu-  ments-birth  certifi-  cates  and  such-were  kept.  I  think  of  it  whenever  Eliot  is  men-  tioned.  I  thought  of  it  the  day  I  stood  in  his  office  at  Faber  &amp;  Faber  (he'd  been  dead  sever-  al  years;  I  never  met  him),  and  I  wondered  if  he  had  stood  at  the  window  for  a  moment  trying  to  decide  wheth-  er  to  toss  the  magenta  sheet  away  or  spare  me  a  minute  of  his  life.  I  could  hear  the  sound  ofhorse's  hooves  on  cobbles  somewhere  outside  in  Bloomsbury.  The  day  he  died-the  moment  of  his  death,  asI  discovered  later-I  was  driving  past  Pevensey  Castle  on  my  way  to  visit  a  poet  in  Rye.  That  eve-  ning,  I  called  inat  my  father's  house  and  asked  to  see  the  letter.  It  had  been  lost.  We  looked  in  every  volume  of  the  encyclopedia,  and  found  a  dozen  or  so  photographs  and  newspaper  clippings  to  remind  us  of  times  past.  But  the  letter,  inexplicably,  had  gone.  I  still  have  the  girl  (I  married  her)  and  the  book  she  gave  me.  I  wish  I  had  the  letter.  I  think  that  every  so  often,  apropos  of  nothing  in  particular,  I  would  have  thought  of  it,  looked  at  it,  put  it  away.  oucH  IsLAND  is  in  the  [REDACTED]  At-  lantic,  not  quite  halfway  from  the  [REDACTED]  of  Good  Hope  to  [REDACTED]  Horn.  It  is  a  British  possession.  The  summer  of  my  graduation  from  [REDACTED],  I  was  invited  to  join  the  university  scientific survey  of  the  island,  which  at  the  time  was  uninhabited.  My  task  would  have  been  to  write  the  book  of  the  expedi-  tion-the  chatty  human-interest  story,  that  is,  not  the  grim  stuff  about  plants,  rocks,  creatures,  and  climate.  I  turned  down  the  offer.  I  was  getting  married  in  the  middle  of  August,  and  the  brides-  maids  dresses  were  already  cut  out  and  tacked.  However,  I  did  my  bit  to  help  the  preparations.  For  example,  I  car-  ried  quantities  of  rope  from  an  upper  room  at  the  Scott  Polar  Research  In-  stitute  down  to  the  street.  The  rope  was  loaded  into  the  back  of  a  green  1927  Morris  &quot;bullnose&quot;&quot;  owned  by  my  friend  Roger,  the  expedition's  geolo-  gist.  (Roger,  had  he  not  gone  to  Gough  Island,  would  have  been  best  man  at  my  wedding.)  Home  from  our  honeymoon  in  the  Tyrol,  I  wrote  a  letter  to  Roger,  telling  him  what  he  was  missing  by  not  staying  in  [REDACTED].  He'd  missed,  for  example,  the  film  &quot;Genevieve&quot;  and  some  notable  batting  performances  by  Denis  Compton  in  the  county  cricket  championship.  The  address  on  the  envelopelooked  stark:  after  Roger's  name  I  wrote,  &quot;Gough  Island,  [REDACTED]  Atlantic.&quot;  On  second  thought,  I  added,  &quot;Near  Tristan  da  Cunha.&quot;  Needless  to  say,  the  letter  was  never  delivered.  Nor  was  it  re-  turned  to  me.  I  do  still  have  the  letter  Roger  wrote  to  me,  though.  The  en-  velope  would  be  of  special  interest  to  philatelists,  having  Tristan  da  Cunha  stamps  cancelled  with  the  expedition's  own  marks.  Roger  didn't  tell  me  a  great  deal,  apart  from  the  fact  that  the  little  party  of  scientists  dined  off  a  wandering  albatross  on  Christmas  Day.  But  when  I  grow  maudlin  and  loquacious  after  a  few  drinks,  I  have  a  way  of  regaling  the  company  with  in-  formation  about  Gough  Island.  I  give  long,  graphic,  and  detailed  descriptions  of  the  rugged  terrain,  the  lofty  cliffs,  " b"the  Hag's  Tooth  mountain.  There  are  plants  that  grow  there  and  nowhere  else,  There  are  mice-ordinary  little  house  mice-which  must  have  come  ashore  when  Captain  Gough  made  his  landfall  in  the  mid-eighteenth  century.  I  can't  remember  where  I  learned  these  facts.  I  suppose  they  are  facts.  Oh,  and  Roger  added  a  [REDACTED]  to  his  letter.  When  the  party  was  put  ashore  from  the  Tristania,  the  expedition  leader  col-  lapsed,  apparently  from  a  slipped  disc,  while  poking  about  on  the  beach.  He  went  straight  back  to  Tristan  after  the  provisions  and  gear  were  unloaded,  and  from  Tristan  a  Royal  Navy  frigate  took  him  to  [REDACTED]  Town.  So  it  was  that  neither  he  nor  I  wrote  the  book.  Sad.  BY  my  mid-twenties,  I  was  the  fa-  ther  of  three.  I  was  a  school-  master.  We  were  abjectly  poor,  and  we  had  expensive  tastes.  In  a  room  so  damp  that  fungi  grew  along  the  waist-  high  tidemark  on  the  walls,  my  wife  and  I  would  sip  brandy  after  a  meal  of  turnip-and-potato  soup.  One  summer,  I  took  a  vacation  job  as  a  tour  leader  for  Thomas  Cook.  The  pay  was  poor,  but  with  the  tips  I  received  I  was  able  to  bring  home  duty-free  wines,  spirits,  and  cigars  each  time  I  crossed  the  -  Channel  witha  group  of  tourists.  We  ate  meat-sometimes  four  times  a  week-from  mid-July  to  the  begin-  ning  of  September.  'The  children  thrived.  I  grew  very  depressed.  It  seemed  that  we  should  never  emerge  from  our  chronic  debts.  I  felt  cornered,  frantic,  as  the  new  school  term  ap-  proached.  During  the  final  crossing  of  the  summer,  from  Dieppe  to  New-  haven,  I  sat  in  the  first-class  bar,  and  on  the  back  of  a  menu  I  wrote  down  a  full  account  of  my  wretchedness.  The  first  half  was  in  French,  the  second  in  English.  My  style  was  extravagant.  I  was  self-pitying  in  a  manner  redolent  of,  say,  the  worst  of  Alfred  de  Musset.  There  were  twelve  lines  of  classical  Alexandrine  followed  by  twelve  in iambic  pentameter.  When  I  had  done,  I  wrote  my  name  and  address  at  the  bottom.  The  barman  gave  me  an  emp-  ty  Booth's  gin  bottle.  I  rolled  up  my  verse,  put  it  in  the  bottle,  secured  the  stopper.  I  cast  it  from  the  quarterdeck  in  mid-Channel.  When  I  returned  to  my  drink,  the  barman  offered  me  a  piece  of  advice  I  have  always  fol-  lowed:  &quot;Buy  what  you  want,  whatever  it  is,  and  haul  your  salary  up  behind  you.&quot;  Gradually,  our  financial  position  did  improve.  The  more  we  spent,  the  better  the  job  I  moved  to.  I  goto  ut  of  teaching,  went  into  broadcasting,  pub-  lishing,  and,  finally,  the  wine  trade.  Sometimes  I  wonder  if  anybody  ever  found  my  eri  de  cceur,  or  whether  the  bottle  slowly  filled  with  water  and  sank.  I've  never,  myself,  found  a  mes-  sage  in  a  bottle.  But  I  was  with  my  brother  once  when  he  found  one.  It  was  in  a  lemonade  bottle,  which  I  thought  lacked  panache.  The  message  was  short  and  poignant-particular-  ly  for  me,  as  it  was  saying,  in  its  way,  what  I  had  said  in  mine.  My  brother  still  has  it.  It  reads:  &quot;I  am  a  young,  intelligent,  and  hardworking  man.  I  have  a  boring  job  with  no  prospects,  and  I  despair  of  making  a  success  of  my  life.  If  anybody  should  " b"find  this  and  can  give  me  sound  ad-  vice,  please  contact  me  at  the  address  below.&quot;  My  brother  and  I  sat  on  a  breakwater  for  a  long  time  trying  to  decide  what  to  do.  It  was  an  embar-  rassing  responsibility,  We  both  knew  the  young  man.  He  lived  in  our  vil-  lage,  worked  in  the  local  store.  Next  to  his  name  he'd  written  the  date.  He  must  have  cast  his  bottle  on  the  morning  tide  the  day  my  brother  found  it.  That  was  five  years  ago.  The  man  still  works  in  the  local  store;  this  very  morning,  he  sold  me  a  superb  Brie.  He  seems  fretfully  happy  whenever  I  see  him.  \\  HEN  a  man  enters  middle  age,  he  is  inclined,  for  ashort  while,  to  become  portentous.  His  children  ap-  pear  to  know  as  much  as  he  knows  on  certain  subjects.  He  makes  out  his  will,  and  deposits  it  in  his  bank.  He  may  even-as  I  did  a  couple  of  years  back-write  a  letter  to  his  family  which  is  To  Be  Opened  in  the  Event  of  His  Death.  I  spent  a  great  deal  of  time  composing  that  letter.  It  con-  tained  a  jokeor  two,  some  reminis-  cences,  and  an  inordinate  amount  of  sound,boring  advice.  I  wrote  it  in  longhand,  of  course,  and  when  it  was  sealed  in  its  fancy  vellum  envelope  I  placed  it  in  my  filing  cabinet  with  the  insurance  policies.  Since  then,  I  have  been  acutely  aware  of  its  existence  every  time  I  go  to  the  cabinet  for  my  tax  returns,  or  whatever.  It  has  been  a  baleful  presence  in  the  room,  like  the  lingering  smell  of  something  turned  rancid.  In  the  same  drawer,  as  it  hap-  pens,  I  used  to  keep  my  shotgun  car-  tridges.  The  gun,  a  12-gauge,  made  me  nervous,  and  I  got  rid  of  it  some  months  ago.  There's  no  knowing  what  a  fellow  may  do  if  he  gets  drunk  and  depressed  and  there's  a  gun  in  the  house.  Well,one  does  accept  after  a  while  that  actually  being  middle-aged  isn't  anything  like  as  awesome  as  becoming  it.  And  similarly,  Iguess,  death  itself  won't  be  as  terrifying  as  the  dying  of  it.  Today  I  decided  to  destroy  the  letter.  I  read  it  through  again  before  I  burned  it.  The  style  was  not  mine;  the  thoughts  expressed  were  excruciatingly  banal.  I  could  have  had  nothing  but  contempt  for  any  child  of  mine  who  acted  upon  such  limp  advice  as  I  offered.  It  may  well  be  that  one  day  I  will  write  a  note  to  them  be-  ginning,  &quot;Ihave  done  what  I  have  done  because  ...&quot;  But  if  I  do  I'll  not  require  an  envelope,  vellum  or  no.  One  reaches  a  point  beyond  which  itis  im-  possible  to  write  ridiculous  letters."