 b"ON  Saturday  morning,  Lenore  is  up  before  the  others.  She  car-  ries  her  baby  into  the  living  room  and  puts  him  in  George's  favor-  ite  chair,  which  tilts  because  its  back  legs  are  missing,  and  covers  him  with  a  blanket.  Then  she  lights  a  fire  in  the  fireplace,  putting  fresh  logs  on  a  few  embers  that  are  still  glowing  from  the  night  before.  She  sits  down  on  the  floor  beside  the  chair  and  checks  the  baby,  who  has  already  gone  back  to  sleep-a  good  thing,  because  there  are  guests  in  the  house.  George,  the  man  she  lives  with,  is  very  hospitable  and  impetuous;  he  extends  invitations  whenever  old  friends  call,  urging  them  to  come  spend  the  weekend.  Most  of  the  callers  are  his  former  students  he  used  to  be  an  English  professor-and  when  they  come  it  seems  to  make  things  much  worse.  It  makes  Ai\xc2\xbb  much  worse,  because  he  falls  into  smoking  too  much  and  drinking  and  not  eating,  and  then  his  ulcer  bothers  him.  When  the  guests  leave,  when  the  weekend  is  over,  she  has  to  cook  bland  food:  ap-  plesauce,  oatmeal,  puddings.  And  his  drinking  does  not  taper  off  easily  any-  more;  in  the  past  he  would  stop  cold  when  the  guests  left,  but  lately  he  only  tapers  down  from  Scotch  to  wine,  and  drinks  wine  well  into  the  week-a  lot  of  wine,  perhaps  a  whole  bottle  with  his  meal-until  his  stomach  is  much  worse.  He  is  hard  to  live  with.  Once  when  a  former  student,  a  woman  named  Ruth,  visited  them-a  lover,  she  suspected-she  overheard  George  talking  to  her  in  his  study,  where  he  had  taken  her  to  see  a  photograph  of  their  house  before  he  began  repairing  it.  George  had  told  Ruth  that  she,  Lenore,  stayed  with  him  because  she  was  simple.  It  hurt  her  badly,  made  her  actually  dizzy  with  surprise  and  shame,  and  since  then,  no  matter  who  the  guests  are,  she  never  feels  quite  at  ease  on  the  weekends.  In  the  past,  she  enjoyed  some  of  the  things  she  and  George  did  with  their  guests,  but  since  overhearing  what  he  said  to  Ruth  she  feels  that  all  their  visitors  havebeen  secretly  told  the  same  thing  about  her.  To  her,  though,  George  is  usually  kind.  But  she  is  sure  that  is  the  reason  he  has  not  married  her,  and  when  he  recently  remarked  on  their  daughter's  intelli-  gence  (she  is  five  years  old,  a  girl  named  Maria)  she  found  that  she  could  no  longer  respond  with  simple  pride;  now  she  feels  spite  aswell,  feels  that  Maria  exists  as  proof  of  her  own  good  genes.  She  has  begun  to  expect  perfection  of  the  child.  She  knows  this  is  wrong,  and  she  has  tried  hard  not  to  communicate  her  anxiety  to  Maria,  who  is  already,  as  herkindergarten  teacher  says,  &quot;untypical.&quot;  At  first  Lenore  loved  George  be-  cause  he  was  untypical,  although  after  she  had  moved  in  with  himand  lived  with  him  for  a  while  she  began  to  see  that  he  was  not  exceptional  but  a  variation  on  a  type.  She  is  proud  of  observing  that,  and  she  harbors  the  discovery-her  silent  response  to  his  low  opinion  of  her.  She  does  not  know  why  he  found  her  attractive-in  the  beginning  he  did-because  she  does  not  resemble  the  pretty,  articu-  late  young  women  he  likes  to  invite,  with  their  lovers  or  girlfriends,  to  their  house  forthe  weekend.  None  of  these  young  women  have  husbands;  when  they  bring  a  man  with  them  at  all  they  bring  a  lover,  and  they  seem  happy  not  to  be  married.  Lenore,  too,  is  happy  to  be  single-not  out  of  conviction  that  marriage  is  wrong  but  because  she  knows  that  it  would  be  wrong  to  be  married  to  George  if  he  thinksshe  is  simple.  She  thought  at  first  to  confront  him  with  what  she  had  overheard,  to  de-  mand  an  explanation.  But  he  can  weasel  out  of  any  corner.  At  best,  she  can  mildly  fluster  him,  and  lat-  er  he  will  only  blame  it  on  Scotch.  Of  course  she  might  ask  why  he  has  all  these  women  come  to  visit,  why  he  devotes  so  little  time  to  her  or  the  children.  'To  that,  he  would  say  that  it  was  the  quality  of  the  time  they  spent  together  that  mattered,  not  the  quantity.  He  has  already  said  that,  in  fact,  without  being  asked.  He  says  things  over  and  over,  sothat  she  will  accept  them  as  truths.  And,  even-  tually,  she  does.  She  does  not  like  to  think  long  and  hard,  and  when  there  is  an  answer-even  his  answer-  it  is  usually  easier  to  accept  it  and  go  on  with  things.  " b"She  goes  on  with  what  she  has  always  done:  tending  the  house  and  the  children  and  George,  when  he  needs  her.  She  likes  to  bake  and  she  collects  art  postcards.  She  is  proud  of  their  house,  which  was  bought  cheaply  and  improved  by  George  when  he  was  still  inter-  ested  in  that  kind  of  work,  and  she  is  happy  to  have  visitors  come  there,  even  if  she  does  not  admire  them  or  even  like  them.  Except  for  teaching  a  night  course  in  photography  at  a  junior  college  once  a  week,  George  has  not  worked  since  he  left  the  university  two  years  ago,  after  he  was  denied  tenure.  She  cannot  really  tell  if  he  is  unhappy  working  so  lit-  tle,  because  he  keeps  busy  in  other  ways.  He  listens  to  classical  music  in  the  morning,  slowly  sipping  herbal  teas,  and  on  fair  afternoons  he  lies  outdoors  in  the  sun,  no  matter  how  cold  the  day.  He  takes  pho-  tographs,  and  walks  alone  in  the  woods.  He  does  er-  rands  for  her  if  they  need  to  be  done.  Sometimes  at  night  he  goes  to  the  li-  brary  or  goes  to  visit  friends;  he  tells  her  that  these  people  often  ask  her  to  come,  too,  but  he  says  she  would  not  like  them.  This  is  true-she  would  not  like  them.  Recently,  he  has  done  some  late-night  cooking.  He  has  always  kept  a  journal,  and  he  is  a  great  letter  writer.  An  aunt  left  him  most  of  her  es-  tate,  ten  thousand  dollars,  and  said  in  her  will  that  he  was  the  only  one  who  really  cared,  who  took  the  time,  again  and  again,  to  write.  He  had  not  seen  his  aunt  for  five  years  before  she  died,  but  he  wrote  regularly.  Sometimes  Lenore  finds  notes  that  he  has  left  for  her.  Once,  on  the  refrigerator,  there  was  a  long  note,  suggesting  clever  Christmas  pres-  ents  for  her  family  that  he  had  thought  of  while  she  was  out.  Last  week,  he  Scotch  Taped  a  slip  of  paper  to  a  cas-  serole  dishthat  contained  leftover  veal  stew,  saying,  &quot;This  was  delicious.&quot;  He  does  not  compliment  her  verbally,  but  he  likes  to  let  her  know  that  he  is  pleased.  A  few  nights  ago-the  same  night  they  gota  call  from  Julie  and  Sarah,  saying  they  were  coming  for  a  visit-  she  told  him  that  she  wished  he  would  talk  more,  that  he  would  confide  in  her. &quot;Confide  what?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  always  take  that  attitude,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You  pretend  that  you  have  no  thoughts.  Why  does  there  have  to  be  so  much  silence?&quot;  &quot;I'm  not  a  professor  anymore,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  don't  have  to  spend  every  min-  ute  thinking.&quot;  But  he  loves  to  talk  to  the  young  women.  He  willtalk  to  them  on  the  phone  for  as  much  as  an  hour;  he  walks  with  them  through  the  woods  for  most  of  the  day  when  they  visit.  The  lovers  the  young  women  bring  with  them  always  seem  to  fall  behind;  they  give  up  and  return  to  the  house  to  sit  and  talk  to  her,  or  to  help  with  the  preparation  of  the  meal,  or  to  play  with  the  children.  The  young  woman  and  George  come  back  refreshed,  ready  for  another  round  of  conversation  at  dinner.  A  few  weeks  ago,  one  of  the  young  men  said  to  her,  &quot;Why  do  you  let  it  go  on?&quot;  They  had  been  talking  lightly  before  that-about  the  weather,  the  children-and  then,  in  the  kitchen,  where  he  was  sitting  shelling  peas,  he  had  put  his  head  on  the  table  and  said,  barely  audibly,  &quot;Why  do  you  let  it  go  on?&quot;  He  did  not  raise  his  head,  and  she  stared  at  him,  thinking  that  she  must  have  imagined  his  speaking.  She  was  surprised-surprised  to  haveheard  it,  and  surprised  that  he  said  nothing  after  that,  which  made  her  doubt  that  he  had  spoken.  &quot;Why  do  I  let  what  go  on?&quot;  she  said.  There  was  a  long  silence.  &quot;What-  ever  this  sick  game  is,  I  don't  want  to  get  involved  in  it,&quot;  he  said  at  last.  &quot;It  was  none  of  my  business  to  ask.  I  un-  derstand  that  you  don't  want  to  talk  about  it.&quot;  &quot;But  it's  really  cold  out  there,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;What  could  happen  when  it's  freezing  out?&quot;  He  shook  his  head,  the  way  George  did,  to  indicate  that  she  was  beyond  understanding.  But  she  wasn't  stupid,  and  she  knew  what  might  be  going  on.  She  had  said  the  right  thing,  had  been  on  the  right  track,  but  she  had  to  say  what  she  felt,  which  was  that  nothing  very  serious  could  be  happen-  ing  at  that  moment  because  they  were  walking  in  the  woods.  There  wasn't  even  a  barn  on  the  property.  She  knew  perfectly  well  that  they  were  talking.  When  George  and  the  young  wom-  an  had  come  back,  he  fixed  hot  apple  juice,  into  which  he  trickled  rum.  Le-  nore  was  pleasant,  because  she  was  sure  of  what  had  not  happened;  the  young  man  was  not,  because  he  did  not  think  " b"as  she  did.  Still  at  the  kitchen  table,  he  ran  his  thumb  across  a  pea  pod  as  though  it  were  a  knife.  HIS  weekend  Sarah  and  Julie  are  visiting.  They  came  on  Friday  evening.  Sarah  was  one  of  George's  students-the  one  who  led  the  fight  to  have  him  rehired.  She  does  not  look  like  a  troublemaker;  she  is  pale  and  pretty,  with  freckles  on  her  cheeks.  She  talks  too  much  about  the  past,  and  this  upsets  him,  disrupts  the  peace  he  has  made  with  himself.  She  tells  him  that  they  fired  him  because  he  was  &quot;in  touch&quot;  with  everything,  that  they  were  afraid  of  him  because  he  was  so  in  touch.  The  more  she  tells  him  the  more  he  remembers,  and  then  it  is  necessary  for  Sarah  to  saythe  same  things  again  and  again;  once  she  reminds  him,  he  seems  to  need  reassurance-needs  to  have  her  voice,  to  hear  her  bitterness  against  the  members  of  the  tenure  com-  mittee.  By  evening,  they  will  both  be  drunk.  Sarah  will  seem  both  agitating  and  consoling,  Lenore  and  Julie  and  the  children  will  be  upstairs,  in  bed.  Lenore  suspects  that  she  will  not  be  the  only  one  awake  listening  to  them.  She  thinks  that  in  spite  of  Julie's  glazed  look  she  is  really  very  attentive.  The  night  before,  when  they  were  all  sitting  around  the  fireplace  talking,  Sarah  made  a  gesture  and  almost  upset  her  wineglass,  but  Julie  reached  for  it  and  stopped  it  from  toppling  over.  George  and  Sarah  were  talking  so  energetically  that  they  did  not  notice.  Lenore's  eyes  met  Julie's  as  Julie's  hand  shot  out.  Le-  nore  feels  that  she  is  like  Julie:  Julie's  face  doesn't  betray  emotion,  even  when  she  is  interested,  even  when  she  cares  deeply.  Being  the  same  kind  of  person,  Lenore  can  recognize  this.  Before  Sarah  and  Julie  arrived  Fri-  day  evening  Lenore  asked  George  if  Sarah  was  his  lover.  &quot;Don't  be  ridiculous,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  think  every  student  is  my  lover?  Is  Julie  my  lover?&quot;  She  said,  &quot;That  wasn't  what  I  said.&quot;  &quot;Well,  if  you're  going  to  be  pre-  posterous,  go  ahead  and  say  that,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;If  you  think  about  it  long  enough,  it  would  make  a  lot  of  sense,  wouldn't  it?&quot;  He  would  not  answer  her  question  about  Sarah.  He  kept  throwing  Julie's  name  into  it.  Some  other  woman  might  then  think  that  he  was  protesting  too  strongly-that  Julie  really  was  his  lov-  er.  She  thought  no  such  thing.  She  also  stopped  suspecting  Sarah,  because  he  wanted  that,  and  it  was  her  habit  to  oblige  him.  He  is  twenty-one  years  older  than  Lenore.  On  his  last  birthday,  he  was  fifty-five.  His  daughter  from  his  first  marriage  (his  only  marriage;  she  keeps  reminding  herself  that  they  are  not  married,  because  it  often  seems  that  they  might  as  well  be)  sent  him  an  Irish  country  hat.  The  present  made  him  irritable.  He  kept  putting  it  on  and  pulling  it  down  hard  on  his  head.  &quot;She  wants  to  make  me  a  laughable  old  man,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;She  wants  me  to  put  this  on  and  go  around  like  a  fool.&quot;  He  wore  the  hat  all  morning,  complaining  about  it,  frightening  the  children.  Even-  tually,  to  calm  him,  she  said,  &quot;She  in-  tended  mothing.&quot;  She  said  it  with  fi-  nality,  her  tone  so  insistent  that  he  listened  to  her.  But  having  lost  his  rea-  son  for  bitterness,  he  said,  &quot;Just  be-  cause  you  don't  think  doesn't  mean  others  don't  think.&quot;  Is  he  getting  old?  She  does  not  want  to  think  of  him  get-  ting  old.  In  spite  of  his  ulcer,  his  body  is  hard.  He  is  tall  and  handsome,  with  a  thick  mustache  and  a  thin  black  goatee,  and  there  is  very  little  gray  in  his  kinky  black  hair.  He  dresses  in  tight-  fitting  bluejeans  and  black  turtleneck  sweaters  in  the  winter  and  old  white  " b"shirts  with  the  sleeves  rolled  up  in  the  summer.  He  pretends  not  to  care  about  his  looks,  but  he  does.  He  shaves  carefully,  scraping  slowly  down  each  side  of  his  goatee.  He  orders  his  soft  leather  shoes  from  a  store  in  [REDACTED].  After  taking  one  of  his  long  walks  even  if  he  does  it  twice  a  day-he  in-  variably  takes  a  shower.  He  always  looks  refreshed,  and  very  rarely  admits  any  insecurity.  A  few  times,  at  night  in  bed,  he  has  asked,  &quot;Am  I  still  the  man  of  your  dreams?&quot;  And  when  she  says  yes  he  always  laughs,  turning  it  into  a  joke,  as  if  he  didn't  care.  She  knows  he  does.  He  pretends  to  have  no  feeling  for  clothing,  but  actually  he  cares  so  strongly  about  his  turtlenecks  and  shirts  (a  few  are  Italian  silk)  and  shoes  that  he  will  have  no  others.  She  has  noticed  that  the  young  women  who  visit  are  always  vain.  When  Sarah  ar-  rived,  she  was  wearing  a  beautiful  silk  scarf,  pale  as  conch  shells.  ITTING  on  the  floor  on  Saturday  morning,  Lenore  watches  the  fire  she  has  just  lit.  The  baby,  tucked  in  George's  chair,  smiles  in  his  sleep,  and  Lenore  thinks  what  a  good  companion  he  would  be  if  only  he  were  an  adult.  She  gets  up  and  goes  into  the  kitchen  and  tears  open  a  package  of  yeast  and  dissolves  it,  with  sugar  and  salt,  in  hot  water,  slushing  her  fingers  through  it  and  shivering  because  it  is  so  cold  in  the  kitchen.  She  will  bake  bread  for  dinner-there  is  always  a  big  meal  in  the  early  evening  when  they  have  guests.  But  what  will  she  do  for  the  rest  of  the  day?  George  toldthe  girls  the  night  before  that  on  Saturday  they  would  walk  in  the  woods,  but  she  does  not  really  enjoy  hiking,  and  George  will  be  irritated  because  of  the  discussion  the  night  before,  and  she  doesnot  want  to  aggravate  him.  &quot;You  are  unwilling  to  challenge  anyone,&quot;  her  brother  wrote  her  in  a  letter  that  came  a  few  days  ago.  He  has  written  her  for  years-all  the  years  she  has  beenwith  George-  asking  when  she  is  going  to  end  the  relationship.  She  rarely  writes  back  be-  cause  she  knows  that  her  answers  sound  too  simple.  She  has  a  comfortable  house.  She  cooks.  She  keeps  busy  and  she  loves  her  two  children.  &quot;It  seems  unkind  to  say  but,&quot;  her  brother  writes,  &quot;but  .  ..&quot;  It  is  true;  she  likes  simple  things.  Her  brother,  who  is  a  lawyer  in  [REDACTED],  cannot  understand  that.  Lenore  rubs  her  hand  down  the  side  of  her  face  and  says  good  morning  to  Julie  and  Sarah,  who  have  come  down-  stairs.  Sarah  does  not  want  orange  juice;  she  already  looks  refreshed  and  ready  for  the  day.  Lenore  pours  a  glass  for  Julie.  George  calls  from  the  hall-  way,  &quot;Ready  to  roll?&quot;  Lenore  is  sur-  prised  that  he  wants  to  leave  so  early.  She  goes  into  the  living  room.  George  is  wearing  a  denim  jacket,  his  hands  in  the  pockets.  &quot;Morning,&quot;  he  says  to  Lenore.  &quot;You're  not  up  for  a  hike,  are  you?&quot;  Lenore  looks  at  him,  but  does  not  answer.  As  she  stands  there,  Sarah  walks  around  her  and  joins  George  in  the  hallway  and  he  holds  the  door  open  for  her.  &quot;Let's  walk  to  the  store  and  get  Hershey  bars  to  give  us  energy  for  a  long  hike,&quot;  George  says  to  Sarah.  They  are  gone.  Lenore  finds  Julie  still  in  the  kitchen,  waiting  for  the  water  to  boil.  Julie  says  that  she  had  a  bad  night  and  she  is  happy  not  to  be  going  with  George  and  Sarah.  Lenore  fixes  tea  for  them.  Maria  sits  next  to  her  on  the  sofa,  sipping  orange  juice.  The  baby  likes  company,  but  Maria  is  a  very  pri-  vate  child;  she  would  rather  that  she  and  her  mother  were  always  alone.  She  has  given  up  being  possessive  about  her  father.  Now  she  gets  out  a  cardboard  box  and  takes  out  her  mother's  collec-  tion  of  postcards,  which  she  arranges  on  the  floor  in  careful  groups.  Whenever  she  looks  up,  Julie  smiles  nervously  at  her;  Maria  does  not  smile,  and  Lenore  doesn't  prod  her.  Lenore  goes  into  the  kitchen  to  punch  down  the  bread,  and  Maria  follows.  Maria  has  recently  gotten  over  chicken  pox,  and  there  is  a  small  new  scar  in  the  center  of  her  forehead.  Instead  of  looking  at  Maria's  blue  eyes,  Lenore  lately  has  found  herself  focussing  on  the  imper-  fection.  As  Lenore  is  stretching  the  loaves  onto  the  cornmeal-covered  baking  sheet,  she  hears  the  rain  start.  It  hits  hard  on  the  garage  roof.  After  a  few  minutes,  Julie  comes  into  the  kitchen.  &quot;They're  caught  in  this  downpour,&quot;  Julie  says.  &quot;If  Sarah  had  left  the  car  keys  I  could  go  get  them.&quot;  &quot;Take  my  car  and  pick  them  up,&quot;  Lenore  says,  pointing  with  her  elbow  to  the  keys  hanging  on  a  nail  near  the  door.  &quot;But  I  don't  know  where  the  store  is.&quot;  &quot;You  must  have  passed  it  driving  to  our  house  last  night.  Just  go  out  of  the  driveway  and  turn  right.  It's  along  the  main  road.&quot;  Julie  gets  her  purple  sweater  and  takes  the  car  keys.  &quot;I'll  be  right  back,&quot;  she  says.  Lenore  can  sense  that  she  is  glad  to  escape  from  the  house,  that  she  is  happy  the  rain  began.  In  the  living  room,  Lenore  turns  the  pages  of  a  magazine,  and  Maria  mut-  ters  a  refrainof  &quot;Blue,  blue,  dark  blue,  green  blue,&quot;  noticing  the  color  ev-  ery  time  it  appears.  Lenore  sips  her  tea.  She  puts  a  Michael  Hurley  record  on  George's  stereo,  Michael  Hurley  is  good  rainy-day  music.  George  has  hun-  dreds  of  records.  His  students  used  to  love  to  paw  through  them.  Cleverly,  he  has  never  made  any  attempt  to  keep  up  with  what  is  currentl)  popular.  Every-  thing  is  jazz  or  eclectic:  Michael  Hur-  ley,  Keith  Jarrett,  Ry  Cooder.  Julie  comes  back.  &quot;I  couldn't  find  them,&quot;  she  says.  She  looks  as  if  she  ex-  pects  to  be  punished.  Lenore  is  surprised.  She  is  about  to  say  something  like  &quot;You  certainly  didn't  lookvery  hard,  did  you?&quot;  but     " b"she  catches  Julie's  eye.  She  looks  young  and  afraid,  and  perhaps  even  a  little  crazy.  f  &quot;Well,  we  tried,&quot;  Le-  nore  says.  Julie  stands  in  front  of  the  fire,  with  her  back  to  Lenore.  Lenore  knows  she  is  thinking  that  she  is  dense-that  she  does  not  recognize  the  implications.  &quot;They  might  have  walked  through  the  woods  instead  of  along  the  road,&quot;  Lenore  says.  &quot;That's  possi-  ble.&quot;  &quot;But  they  would  have  gone  out  to  the  road  to  thumb  when  the  rain  be-  gan,  wouldn't  they?&quot;  Perhaps  she  misunder-stood  what  Julie  was  think-  ing.  Perhaps  it  has  never  occurred  to  Julie  until  now  what  might  be  going  on.  &quot;Maybe  they  got  lost,&quot;  Julie  says.  &quot;Maybe  some-  thing  happened  to  them.&quot;  &quot;Nothing  happened  to  them,&quot;  Lenore  says.  Julie  turns  around  and  Lenore  catches  that  small  point  of  light  in  her  eye  again.  &quot;Maybe  they  took  shelter  under  a  tree,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;Maybe  they're  screwing.  How  should  I  know?&quot;  It  is  not  a  word  Lenore  often  uses.  She  usually  tries  not  to  think  about  that  at  all,  but  she  can  sense  that  J  ulie  is  very  upset.  &quot;Really?&quot;  Julie  says.  &quot;Don't  you  care,  Mrs.  Anderson?&quot;  Lenore  is  amused.  There's  a  switch.  Allthe  students  call  her  husband  George  and  her  Lenore;  now  one  of  them  wants  to  think  there's  a  real  adult  here  to  explain  all  this  to  her.  &quot;What  am  I  going  to  do?&quot;  Lenore  says.  She  shrugs.  Julie  does  not  answer.  &quot;'Would  you  like  me  to  pour  you  tea?&quot;  Lenore  asks.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  Julie  says.  &quot;Please.&quot;  GEORGE  and  Sarah  return  in  the  middle  of  the  afternoon.  George  says  that  they  decided  to  go  on  a  spree  to  the  big  city-it  is  really  a  small  town  he  is  talking  about,  but  calling  it  the  big  city  gives  him  an  opportunity  to  speak  ironically.  They  sat  in  a  restau-  rant  bar,  waiting  for  the  rain  to  stop,  George  says,  and  then  they  thumbed  a  ride  home.  &quot;But  I'm  completely  so-  ber,&quot;  George  says,  turning  for  the  first  time  to  Sarah.  &quot;What  about  you?&quot;  He is  all  smiles.  Sarah  lets  him  down.  She  looks  embarrassed.  Her  eyes  meet  Le-  nore's  quickly,  and  jump  to  Julie.  The  two  girls  stare  at  each  other,  andLe-  nore,  left  withonly  George  to  look  at,  looks  at  the  fire  and  then  gets  up  to  pile  on  another  log.  Gradually  it  becomes  clear  that  they  are  trapped  together  by  the  rain.  Maria  undresses  her  paper  doll  and  deliberate-  ly  rips  a  feather  off  its  hat.  Then  she  takes  the  pieces  to  Lenore,  almost  in  tears.  The  baby  cries,  and  Lenore  takes  him  off  the  sofa,  where  he  has  been  sleeping  under  his  yellow  blanket,  and  props  him  in  the  space  between  her  legs  as  she  leans  back  on  her  elbows  to  watch  the  fire.  It's  her  fire,  and  she  has  the  excuse  of  presiding  over  it.  &quot;How's  my  boy?&quot;  George  says.  The  baby  looks,  and  looks  away.  It  gets  dark  early,  because  of  the  rain.  At  four-thirty  George  uncorks  a  bottle  of  Beaujolais  and  brings  it  into  the  living  room,  with  four  glasses  pressed  against  his  chest  with  his  free  arm.  Julie  rises  nervously  to  extract  the  glasses,  thanking  him  too  profusely  for  the  wine.  She  gives  a  glass  to  Sarah  without  looking  at  her.  They  sit  in  a  semicircle  in  front  of  the  fire,  and  drink  the  wine.  Julie  leafs  through  magazines-New  Times,  Ne-  ronal  Geographic-and  Sarah  holds  a  small  white  dish  painted  with  gray-  green  leaves  that  she  has  taken  from  the  coffee  table;  the  dish  contains  a  few  shells  and  some  acorn  caps,  a  pol-  ished  stone  or  two,  and  Sarah  lets  these  objects  run  through  her  fingers.  There  are  several  such  dishes  in  the  house,  as-  sembled  by  George.  He  and  Lenore  gathered  the  shells  long  ago,  the  first  time  they  went  away  together,  at  a  beach  in  [REDACTED].  But  the  acorn  \n\n\n\n\n\n\n" b"caps,  the  shiny  turquoise  and  amethyst  stones-those  are  there,  she  knows,  be-  cause  George  likes  the  effect  they  have  on  visitors;  it  is  an  expected  unconven-  tionality,  really.  He  has  also  acquired  a  few  small  framed  pictures,  which  he  points  out  to  guests  who  are  more  im-  portant  than  worshipful  students-tiny  oil  paintings  of  fruit,  prints  with  small  details  from  the  Unicorn  tapestries.  He  pretends  to  like  small,  elegant  things.  Actually,  when  they  visit  museums  in  New  York  he  goes  first  to  El  Grecos  and  big  Mark  Rothko  canvases.  She  could  never  get  him  to  admit  that  what  he  said  or  did  was  sometimes  false.  Once,  long  ago,  when  he  asked  if  he  was  still  the  man  of  her  dreams,  she  said,  &quot;We  don't  get  along  well  any-  more.&quot;  &quot;Don't  talk  about  it,&quot;  he  said-  no  denial,  no  protest.  At  best,  she  could  say  things  and  get  away  with  them;  she  could  never  get  him  to  continue  such  a  conversation.  T  the  dinner  table,  lit  with  white  candles  burning  in  empty  wine  bottles,  they  eat  off  his  grandmother's  small,  flowery  plates.  Lenore  looks  out  a  window  and  sees,  very  faintly  in  the  dark,  their  huge  oak  tree.  The  rain  has  stopped.  A  few  stars  have  come  out,  and  there  are  glints  on  the  wet  branches.  The  oak  tree  grows  very  close  to  the  window.  George  loved  it  when  her  brother  once  suggested  that  some  of  the  bushes  and  trees  should  be  pruned  away  from  the  house  so  it  would  not  always  be  so  dark  inside;  it  gave  him  a  chance  to  rave  about  the  beauty  of  nature,  to  say  that  he  would  never  tamper  with  it.  &quot;It's  like  a  tomb  in  here  all  day,&quot;  her  brother  had  said.  Since  moving  here,  George  has  learned  the  names  of  almost  all  the  things  that  are  growing  on  the  land:  he  can  point  out  abelia  bushes,  spirea,  laurels.  He  subscribesto  Netional  Geographic  (al-  though  she  rarely  sees  him  looking  at  it).  He  is  at  last  in  touch,  he  says,  being  in  the  country  puts  him  in  touch.  He  is  saying  it  now  to  Sarah,  who  has  put  down  her  ivory-handled  fork  to  listen  to  him.  He  gets  up  to  change  the  rec-  ord.  Side  two  of  the  Telemann  record  begins  softly. Sarah  is  still  very  much  on  guard  with  Lenore;  she  makes  polite  conver-  sation  with  her  quickly  when  George  is  out  of  the  room.  &quot;You  people  are  so  wonderful,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;I  wish  my  par-  ents  could  be  like  you.&quot;  &quot;George  would  be  pleased  to  hear  that,&quot;  Lenore  says,  lifting  a  small  piece  of  pasta  to  her  lips.  When  George  is  seated  again,  Sarah,  anxious  to  please,  tells  him,  &quot;If  only  my  father  could  be  like  you.&quot;  &quot;Your  father,&quot;  George  says,  &quot;I  won't  have  that  analogy.&quot;  He  says  it  pleasantly,  but  barely  disguises  his  dis-  may  at  the  comparison.  &quot;I  mean,  he  cares  about  nothing  but  business,&quot;  the  girl  stumbles  on.  The  music,  in  contrast,  grows  love-  lier.  Lenore  goes  into  the  kitchen  to  get  the  salad  and  hears  George  say,  &quot;I  simply  won't  let  you  girls  leave.  No-  body  leaves  on  aSaturday.&quot;  There  are  polite  protests,  there  are  compliments  to  Lenore  on  the  meal-  there  is  too  much  talk,  Lenore  has  trouble  caring  about  what's  going  " b"on.  The  food  is  warm  and  delicious.  She  pours  more  wine  and  lets  them  talk.  &quot;Godard,  yes,  I  know  ...  panning  that  row  of  honking  cars  so  slowly,  that  long  line  of  cars  stretching  onand  on.&quot;  She  haspicked  up  the  end  of  George's  conversation.  His  arm  slowly  waves  out  over  the  table,  indicating  the  line  of  motionless  cars  in  the  movie.  &quot;'That's  a  lovely  plant,&quot;  Julie  says  to  Lenore.  &quot;It's  Peruvian  ivy,&quot;  Lenore  says.  She  smiles.  She  is  supposed  to  smile.  She  will  not  offer  to  hack  shoots  off  her  plant  for  these  girls.  Sarah  asks  for  a  Dylan  record  when  the  Telemann  finishes  playing.  White  wax  drips  onto  the  wood  table.  George  waits  for  it  to  solidify  slightly,  then  scrapes  up  the  little  circles  and  with  thumb  and  index  finger  flicks  them  gently  toward  Sarah.  He  explains  (al-  though  she  asked  for  no  particular  Dylan  record)  that  he  has  only  Dylan  before  he  went  electric.  And  &quot;Planet  Waves&quot;-&quot;because  it's  so  romantic.  That's  silly  of  me,  but  true.&quot;  Sarah  smiles  at  him.  Julie  smiles  at  Lenore.  Julie  is  being  polite,  taking  her  cues  from  Sarah,  really  not  understanding  what's  going  on.  Lenore  does  not  smile  back.  She  has  done  enough  to  put  them  at  ease.  She  is  tired  now,  brought  down  by  the  music,  a  full  stomach,  and  again  the  sounds  of  rain  outside.  For  dessert,  there  is  homemade  vanilla  ice  cream,  made  by  George,  with  small  black  va-  nilla-bean  flecks  in  it.  He  is  still  drink-  ing  wine,  though;  another  bottle  has  been  opened.  He  sips  wine  and  then  taps  his  spoon  on  hisice  cream,  looking  at  Sarah.  Sarah  smiles,  letting  them  all  see  the  smile,  then  sucks  the  ice  cream  off  her  spoon.  Julie  is  missing  more  and  more  of  what's  going  on.  Lenore  watches  as  Julie  strokes  her  hand  absently  on  her  napkin.  She  is  wear-  ing  a  thin  silver  choker  and-Lenore  notices  for  the  first  time-a  thin  silver  ring  on  the  fourth  finger  of  her  right  hand.  &quot;It's  just  terrible  about  [REDACTED];  George  says,  finishing  his  wine,  his  ice  cream  melting,  looking  at  no  one  in  particular,  although  Sarah  was  the  one  who  brought  up  Anna  the  night  before,  when  they  had  been  in  the  house  only  a  short  time-Anna  dead,  hit  by  a  car,  hardly  an  accident  at  all.  Anna  was  also  a  student  of  his.  The  driver  of  the  car  was  drunk,  but  for  some  reason  charges  were  not  pressed.  (Sarah  and  George  have  talked  about  this  before,  but  Le-  nore  blocks  it  out,  What  can  she  do  about  it?  She  met  Anna  once:  a  beauti-  ful  girl,  with  tiny,  childlike  hands,  her  hair  thin  and  curly-wary,  as  beau-  tiful  people  are  wary.)  Now  the  driver  has  been  flipping  out,  Julie  says,  and  calling  Anna's  parents,  wanting  to  talk  to  them  to  find  out  why  it  has  hap-  pened.  The  baby  begins  to  cry.  Lenore  goes  upstairs,  pulls  up  more  covers,  talks  to  him  for  a  minute.  He  settles  for  this.  She  goes  downstairs.  The  wine  must  have  affected  her  more  than  she  realizes;  otherwise,  why  is  she  count-  ing  the  number  of  steps?  In  the  candlelit  dining  room,  Julie  sits  alone  at  the  table.  The  girl  has  been  left  alone  again;  George  and  Sarah  took  the  umbrellas,  decided  to  go  for  a  walk  in  the  rain.  IT  is  eight  o'clock.  Since  helping  Le-  nore  load  the  dishes  into  the  dish-  washer,  when  she  said  what  a  beautiful  house  Lenore  had,  Julie  has  said  very  little.  Lenore  is  tired,  and  does  not  want  to  make  conversation.  They  sit  in  the  living  room  and  drink  wine.  &quot;Sarah  is  my  best  friend,&quot;  Julie  says.  She  seems  apologetic  about  it.  &quot;I  was  so  out  of  it  when  I  came  back  to  col-  lege.  I  was  in  4974616c79,  with  my  husband,  and  suddenly  I  was  back  in  the  States.  I  couldn't  make  friends.  But  Sarah  wasn't  like  the  other  people.  She  cared  enough  to  be  nice  to  me.&quot;  &quot;How  long  have  you  been  friends?&quot;  &quot;For  two  years.  She's  really  the  best  friend  I've  ever  had.  We  understand  things-we  don't  al-  ways  have  to  talk  about  them.&quot;  &quot;Like  her  relation-  ship  with  George,&quot;  Le-  nore  says.  Too  direct.  Too  un-  expected,.  Julie  has  no  answer.  &quot;You  act  as  if  you're  to  blame,&quot;  Lenore  says.  &quot;I  feel  strange  be-  cause  you're  such  a  nice  lady.&quot;  A  nice  lady!  What  an  odd  way  to  speak.  Has  she  been  reading  Henry  James?Lenore  has  never  known  what  to  think  of  herself,  but  she  certainly  thinks  of  herselfas  being  more  complicated  than  a  (llady&quot;\xe2\x80\x99  &quot;Why  doyou  look  that  way?&quot;  Julie  asks.  &quot;You  ere  nice.  I  think  you've  been  very  nice  to  us.  You've  given  up  your  whole  weekend.&quot;  &quot;I  always  give  up  " b"my  weekends.  Weekends  are  the  only  time  we  social-  ize,  really.  In  a  way,  it's  good  to  have  something  to  do.&quot;  &quot;But  to  have  it  turn  out  like  this  ...&quot;  Julie  says.  &quot;I  think  I  feel  so  strange  be-  cause  when  my  own  mar-  riage  broke  up  I  didn't  even  suspect.  I  mean,  I  couldn't  act  the  way  youdo  anyway,  but  I  ...&quot;  &quot;For  all  I  know,  noth-  ing's  going  on,&quot;  Lenore  says.  &quot;For  all  I  know,  your  friend  is  flattering  herself,  and  George  is  trying  to  make  me  jealous.&quot;  She  puts  two  more  logs  on  the  fire.  When  these  are  gone,  she  will  either  have  to  walk  to  the  woodshed  or  give  up  and  go  to  bed.  &quot;Is  there  something  .  ..  major  going  on?&quot;  she  asks.  Julie  is  sitting  on  the  rug,  by  the  fire,  twirling  her  hair  with  her  finger.  &quot;I  didn't  know  it  when  I  came  out  here,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;Sarah's  put  me  in  a  very  awkward  position.&quot;  &quot;But  do  you  know  how  far  it  has  gone?&quot;  Lenore  asks,  genuinely  curious  now.  &quot;No,&quot;  Julie  says.  No  way  to  know  if  she's  telling  the  truth.  Would  Julie  speak  the  truth  to  a  lady?  Probably  not.  &quot;Anyway,&quot;  Lenore  says  with  a  shrug,  &quot;I  don't  want  to  think  about  it  all  the  time.&quot;  &quot;I'd  never  have  the  courage  to  live  with  a  man  and  not  marry,&quot;  Julie  says.  &quot;I  mean,  I  wish  I  had,  that  we  hadn't  gotten  married,  but  I  just  don't  have  that  kind  of  ...I'm  not  secure  enough.&quot;  &quot;You  have  to  live  somewhere,&quot;  Lenore  says.  Julie  is  looking  at  her  as  if  she  does  not  believe  that  she  is  sincere.  Am  I,  Lenore  wonders.  She  has  lived  with  George  for  six  years,  and  sometimes  she  thinksshe  has  caught  his  way  of  playing  games,  along  with  his  colds,  his  bad  moods.  &quot;I'll  show  you  something,&quot;  Lenore  says.  She  gets  up,  and  Julie  follows.  Le-  nore  puts  on  the  light  in  George's  study,  and  they  walk  through  it  to  a  bath-  room  he  has  converted  to  a  darkroom.  Under  a  table,  in  a  box  behind  another  box,  there  is  a  stack  of  pictures.  Lenore  takes  them  out  and  hands  them  to  Julie.  They  are  pictures  that  Lenore  found  in  his  darkroom  last  summer;  they  were  left  out  by  mistake,  no  doubt,  and  she  found  them  when  she  went  in  with  some  contact  prints  he  had  left  in  their  bedroom.  They  are  high-contrast  photo-  graphs  of  George's  face.  In  all  of  them,  he  looks  very  serious  and  very  sad;  in  some  of  them,  his  eyes  seem  to  be  nar-  rowed  in  pain.  In  one,  his  mouth  is  open.  It  is  an  excellent  photograph  of  a  man  in  agony,  a  man  about  to  scream.  &quot;What  are  they?&quot;  Julie  whispers.  &quot;Pictures  hetook  of  himself,&quot;  Le-  nore  says.  She  shrugs.  &quot;So  I  stay,&quot;  she  says.  Julie  nods.  Lenore  nods,  taking  the  pictures  back.  Lenore  has  not  thought  until  this  minute  that  this  may  be  why  she  stays.  In  fact,  it  is  not  the  only  reason.  It  is  just  a  very  demonstrable,  impressive  reason.  When  she  first  saw  the  pictures,  her  own  face  had  become  as  distorted  as  George's.  She  had  sim-  ply  not  known  what  to  do.  She  had  been  frightened  and  ashamed.  Finally  she  put  them  in  an  empty  box,  and  put  the  box  behind  another  box.  She  did  not  even  want  him  to  see  the  horrible  pictures  again.  She  does  not  know  if  he  has  ever  found  them,  pushed  back  against  the  wall  in  that  other  box.  As  George  says,  there  can  be  too  much  communication  between  people.  ETER,  Sarah  and  George  come  back  to  the  house.  It  is  still  rain-  ing.  It  turns  out  that  they  took  a  bottle  of  brandy  with  them,  and  they  are  both  drenched  and  drunk.  He  holds  Sarah's  finger  with  one  of  his.  Sarah,  seeing  Lenore,  lets  his  finger  go.  But  then  he  turns-they  have  not  even  said  hello  yet-and  grabs  her  up,  spins  her  around,  stumbling  into  the  living  room,  and  says,  &quot;I  am  in  love.&quot;  Julie  and  Lenore  watch  them  in  si-  lence.  &quot;See  no  evil,&quot;  George  says,  gestur-  ing  with  the  empty  brandy  bottle  to  Julie.  &quot;Hear  no  evil,&quot;  George  says,  pointing  to  Lenore.  He  hugs  Sarah  closer.  &quot;I  speak  no  evil.  I  speak  the  truth.  I  am  in  love!&quot;  Sarah  squirms  away  from  him,  runs  from  the  room  and  up  the  stairs  in  the  dark.  George  looks  blankly  after  her,  then  sinks  to  the  floor  and  smiles.  He  is  go-  ing  to  pass  it  off  as  a  joke.  Julie  looks  at  him  in  horror,  and  from  upstairs  Sarah  can  be  heard  sobbing.  Her  cry-  ing  awakens  the  baby.  &quot;Excuse  me,&quot;  Lenore  says.  She  climbs  the  stairs  and  goes  into  her  son's  room,  and  picks  him  up.  She  talks  gent-  lyto  him,  soothing  him  with  lies.  He  is  too  sleepy  to  be  alarmed  for  long.  In  a  few  minutes  he  is  asleep  again,  and  she  puts  him  back  in  his  crib.  In  the  next  room,  Sarah  is  crying  more  quiet-  ly  now.  Her  crying  is  so  awful  that  Lenore  almost  joins  in,  but  instead  she  pats  her  son.  She  stands  in  the  dark  by  the  crib  and  then  at  last  goes  out  and  down  the  hallway  to  her  bedroom.  She  takes  off  her  clothes  and  gets  into  the  cold  bed.  She  concentrates  on  breathing  normally.  With  the  door  closed  and  Sarah's  door  closed,  she  can  hardly  hear  " b"her.  Someone  taps  lightly  on  her  door.  &quot;Mrs.  Anderson,&quot;  Julie  whispers.  &quot;Is  this  your  room?&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  Lenore  says.  She  does  not  ask  her  in.  &quot;We're  going  to  leave.  I'm  going  to  get  Sarah  and  leave.  I  didn't  want  to  just  walk  out  without  saying  anything.&quot;  Lenore  just  cannot  think  how  to  re-  spond.  It  was  really  very  kind  of  Julie  to  say  something.  She  is  very  close  to  tears,  so  she  says  nothing.  &quot;O.K.,&quot;  Julie  says,  to  reassure  her-  self.  &quot;Good  night.  We're  going.&quot;  There  is  no  more  crying.  Footsteps.  Miraculously,  the  baby  does  not  wake  up  again,  and  Maria  has  slept  through  all  of  it.  She  has  always  slept  well.  Lenore  herself  sleeps  worse  and  worse,  and  she  knows  that  George  walks  much  of  the  night,  most  nights.  She  hasn't  said  anything  about  it.  If  he  thinks  she's  simple,  what  good  would  her  simple  wisdom  do  him?  The  oak  tree  scrapes  against  the  window  in  the  wind  and  rain.  Here  on  the  second  floor,  under  the  roof,  the  tinny  tapping  is  very  loud.  If  Sarah  and  Julie  say  anything  to  George  before  they  leave,  she  doesn't  hear  them.  She  hears  the  car  start,  then  die  out.  It  starts  again-she  is  praying  for  the  car  to  go-and  after  conking  out  once  more  it  rolls  slowly  away,  crunching  gravel.  The  bed  is  no  warmer;  she  shivers.  She  tries  hard  to  fall  asleep.  The  effort  keeps  her  awake.  She  squints  her  eyes  in  concentration  instead  of  closing  them.  The  only  sound  in  the  house  is  the  electric  clock,  humming  by  her  bed.  It  is  not  even  midnight.  She  gets  up  and,  without  turning  on  the  light,  walks  downstairs.  George  is  still  in  the  living  room.  The  fire  is  nothing  but  ashes  and  glowing  bits  of  wood.  It  is  as  cold  there  as  it  was  in  the  bed.  &quot;That  damned  bitch,&quot;  George  says.  &quot;I  should  have  known  she  was  a  stupid  little  girl.&quot;  &quot;You  went  too  far,&quot;  Lenore  says.  &quot;I'm  the  only  one  you  can  go  too  far  with.&quot;  &quot;Damn  it,&quot;  he  says,  and  pokes  the  fire.  A  few  sparks  shoot  up.  &quot;Damn  it,&quot;  he  repeats  under  his  breath.  His  sweater  is  still  wet.  His  shoes  are  muddy  and  ruined.  Sitting  on  the  floor  by  the  fire,  his  hair  matted  down  on  his  head,  he  looks  ugly,  older,  unfamiliar.  She  thinks  of  another  time,  when  it  was  warm.  They  were  walking  on  the  beach  together,  shortly  after  they  met,  gathering  shells.  Little  waves  were  rolling  in.  The  sun  went  behind  the  clouds  and  there  was  a  momentary  il-  lusion  thatthe  clouds  were  still  and  the  sun  was  racing  ahead  of  them.  &quot;Catch  me,&quot;  he  said,  breaking  away  from  her.  They  had  been  talking  quietly,  gather-  ing  shells.  She  was  so  surprised  at  him  for  breaking  away  that  she  ran  with  all  her  energy  and  did  catch  him,  putting  her  hand  out  and  taking  hold  of  the  band  of  his  swimming  trunks  as  he  veered  into  the  water.  If  she  hadn't  stopped  him,  would  he  really  have  run  far  out  into  the  water,  until  she  couldn't  follow  anymore?  He  turned  on  her,  just  as  abruptly  as  he  had  run  away,  and  grabbed  her  and  hugged  her  hard,  lifted  her  high.  She  had  clung  to  him,  held  him  close.  He  had  tried  the  same  thing  when  he  came  back  from  the  walk  with  Sarah,  and  it  hadn't  worked.  &quot;I  wouldn't  care  if  their  car  went  off  the  road,&quot;  he  says  bitterly.  &quot;Don't  say  that,&quot;  she  says.  They  sit  in  silence,  listening  to  the  rain.  She  slides  over  closer  to  him,  puts  her  hand  on  his  shoulder  and  leans  her  head  there,  as  if  he  could  protect  her  from  the  awful  things  he  has  wished  into  being. "