 b"SWALLOWS  glide  hunting  under  the  branches  here,  in  the  late  afternoon.  Rain  flows  east,  when  it  comes.  A  dry  ground  most  of  the  year,  red,  and  shallow  over  stone.  Every  gray  lives  here,  and  changes  like  a  cloud.  The  stones  gather  accord-  ing  to  their  kind.  Waiting  is  here,  no  words,  marjoram.  Pink  flowers  of  cal-  amint,  bees,  seed  heads  so  small  that  a  blade  of  tawny  grass  hides  them.  Straw  is  native,  and  the  smell  of  heat,  and  cracked  bark.  The  yellow  thistles  first  opened  to  an  evening  in  summer,  and  to  them  morning  is  always  a  surprise.  The  clipped  sheep  hurried  past  in  the  mist  at  sunrise,  with  dew  on  them  full  of  light.  Mice  flow  out  of  crevices,  shadows  have  rabbits,  snakes  leave  their  skins  among  the  stones.  At  noon,  underfoot,  it  is  pure  night,  trembling  with  the  same  cicada  sound  as  the  day.  Long  ago  some  human  being  with  an  age  came  and  thought  tostay  here,  and  decided  where  to  put  stones  on  top  of  each  other,  and  which  stones,  and  a  roof  over  them.  Nothing  else  is  known  of  that  person.  Birth,  name,  face,  death,  friends.  Above  the  stones  there  is  the  sky.  In  the  summer,  by  the  roofless  houses  among  oak  trees,  plums  can  be  heard  falling  into  high  grass  a  field  away,  hour  after  hour.  PROMONTORY  HE  sea  gleams  all  the  way  to  the  south  horizon,  on  which  there  are  two  mountains,  mirrors  full  of  smoke.  It  is  morning  for  all  of  us.  Lines  of  white  foam  are  sliding  in  from  the  left  hand.  Breakers  bright  ce-  rulean,  and  enamelled,  in  some  places.  Curled  porcelain,  alive.  Sun  after  ten  days  of  storm.  Large  waves,  green,  suddenly  shouldering  out  of  riding  swells,  and  running  forward.  In  other  places,  slate  of  a  long  roof  of  breath  passing  inland.  Invasions,  ages,  gen-  erations  of  bright  foam  proceeding  at  the  same  time  over  coral,  to  coral  sand,  after  innumerable  changes  and  dis-  tances,  continue  to  arrive  at  no  arrival  at  all.  Over  the  foam  a  haze  of  blown  spray  is  rising  and  moving  landward  to  join  heavy  clouds  against  the  moun-  tains  of  the  coast,  to  the  right,  on  the  west:  green  ridges  straight  up  and  down,  regular  as  statues,  not  statues  of  anything.  Steep  foothills  marbled  with  red  that  is  erosion,  a  skin  parted  and  drawn  back  without  a  word.  Val-  leys  opening,  filled,  where  they  widen     out,  with  palms  and  banana  trees,  foam  of  leaves.  Valleys  of  sunbeams  between  dark  cliffs.  Rows  of  sharp  buttresses,  necks  of  stone  horses  running  together,  flecked  with  lichen.  Water  rushing  in  white  falls  between  them.  The  word  palisade  has  gone  around  the  world,  echoing.  Clear  east,  blue  east,  mother  of  loud  unseen  wind  without  beginning,  with-  out  name.  Clouds  gather  on  steep  mountains,  deepen,  and  their  shadows  blacken  on  dark,  sharp,  carved  cliffs.  They  float  through  clefts.  They  fill  high  caves.  T  wo  flat  roofs,  below,  one  on  either  side,  hide  parts  of  the  sea.  Neither  roof  is  finished.  A  new  tin  chimney,  on  the  one  to  the  right,  splashed  with  tar,  is  already  turning  the  color  of  mist,  a  tower  in  our  time.  At  the  pace  of  the  sea  the  rain  is  taking  the  mountains.  Hammer  sounds  seem  at  first  to  be  separate.  Saw  sounds  run  together.  Rain  disappears.  THE  GREAT  UNION  HERE  was  an  old  woman  who  lived  by  herself,  up  the  hill-on  Garfield  somewhere,  or  Taylor,  near  where  the  paving  had  not  reached-  and  made  shirts  that  took  a  long  time,  so  that  people  laughed  about  it.  They  were  good  shirts,  though,  it  had  to  be  said,  and  they  ought  to  be.  By  hand.  Like  the  ones  she  had  made  for  her  husband.  There  were  people  who  said  they  remembered  him,  but  if  they  asked  the  oth-  ers  who  were  present,  it  would  turn  out  that  they  themselves  were  the  only  ones  who  had  actually  known  him,  which  was  halfway  to  his  not  having  existed.  Certainly  she  had  pictures  of  him.  If  there  had  been  any  children  they  were  long  gone.  Sometimes  she  came  when  the  wom-  en's  circle  was  having  a  sewing  meeting,  and  it  was  always  a  surprise,  and  it  was  told  about  afterward  as  though  the  day  had  been  an  occasion.  Because  no-  body  knew  what  she  would  say  next.  She  got  cross  and  argued.  They  thought  it  was  funny  the  way  she  re-  membered  things  that  none  of  them  had  seen.  And  she  took  it  for  granted  that  they  remembered  those  things,  too,  which  was  real-  ly  what  was  funny.  It  was  " b'only  a  farm  up  there  when  she  lived  there,  at  one  time.  Before  they  started  blasting  the  mines  under  the  hill,  and  she  heard  them.  Just  grass  and  trees,  then.  Animals,  and  sheds  with  lamps.  SHE  would  walk  fast,  years  later,  farther  than  the  neighbors  ever  walked,  through  the  streets  that  had  been  fields  and  pastures  and  woods,  on  a  snowy  night  before  Christmas,  with  a  shirt  held  out  flat,  in  tissue  paper,  for  a  present,  and  a  cake  baked  for  somebody,  and  her  cakes  were  famous  for  being  bad.  She  never  let  anybody  know  she  was  coming.  She  would  not  go  in.  She  never  sat  down  or  stayed.  She  was  so  thin  they  com-  pared  things  to  her,  and  she  wore  an  old  overcoat,  and  a  round  hat  pulled  down  to  her  eyes  in  a  way  that  people  showed  each  other  when  she  was  men-  tioned.  In  the  years  to  come,  some  would  know,  without  being  told,  that  she  was  dead,  and  some  would  suppose  that  it  must  be  hard  for  people  to  remember  her  name-even  the  few  still  living  who  had  known  her.  She  referred  the  passing  weather  to  the  great  disasters.  She  spoke  of  the  blizzard  when  it  snowed.  It  never  snowed  like  the  blizzard.  Did  it?  Not  like  the  blizzard,  though.  And  she  meant  Or  85,  whichever  it  was,  they  said  every  time.  When  nobody  was  born  but  one  or  two.  And  in  the  snowstorm  she  saw  the  church  burn,  in  the  terrible  cold.  The  whole  spire  catching,  and  the  snow  shrinking  back  in  a  widening  circle,  and  them  crying.  Then  the  bells  fell  out  onto  the  stones  and  smashed  like  glass,  and  she  always  heard  it.  That  was  the  year  of  the  flood,  too.  It  came  after.  When  the  bells  fell,  that  was  the  worst  since  the  burning  of  the  Great  Union,  she  said,  and  they  agreed.  They  said  it  themselves.  They  had  heard  it  said.  They  knew  it.  What  was  the  Great  Union,  and  where?  Nobody  told.  They  looked  away.  Some  nodded  without  meaning  yes,  and  some  shook  their  heads  without  meaning  no.  Even  she  had  not  seen  it,  whatever  she  might  say.  Unwatched  by  anyone  alive,  the  immense  white  columns  had  bathed  in  flames,  and  dropped  to  their  knees  and  faces  in  fire,  reflected  on  all  sides.  The  thousands  of  white  candles  hang-  ing  in  rings  of  gold  and  crystal  had  melt-  ed  and  flown  down  through  the  high  burning  halls,  onto  the  green  marble,  and  the  gilded  roofs  had  hung  for  a  mo-  ment  on  the  heat  like  wings  made  by humans,  and  then  had  sprouted  flames  along  cracks  the  shapes  of  lightning,  and  sagged  and  tilted,  to  shatter  across  beamsand  rafters,  and  splash  into  the  piled  fire.  There  was  nobody  to  know  whether  it  sank  in  land  or  water.  It  must  have  burned  all  night,  all  day.  Night  and  day.  There  was  nobody  for  it  to  belong  to.  The  farm  had  not  even  been  thought  of.'