 b"EARLY  in  October,  Hassan  E  Ardavi  invited  his  mother  to  come  from  4972616e  for  a  visit.  His  mother  accepted  immediately.  It  wasn't  clear  how  long  the  visit  was  to  last.  Hassan's  wife  thought  three  months  would  bea  good  length  of  time.  Has-  san  himself  had  planned  on  six  months,  and  said  so  in  his  letter  of  invitation.  But  his  mother  felt  that  after  such  a  long  trip  six  months  would  betoo  short,  and  she  was  counting  on  staying  a  year.  Hassan's  little  girl,  who  wasn't  yet  two,  had  no  idea  of  time  at  all,  She  was  told  that  her  grandmother  was  coming  but  she  soon  forgot  about  it.  Hassan's  wife  was  named  Elizabeth,  not  an  easy  word  for  4972616eians  to  pro-  nounce.  She  would  have  been  recog-  nized  as  556e6974656420537461746573n  the  world  over-a  blond,  pretty  girl  withlong  bones  and  an  ungraceful  way  of  walking.  One  of  her  strong  points  was  an  ability  to  pick  up  foreign  languages,  and  before  her  mother-in-law's  arrival  she  bought  a  textbook  and  taught  herself  Per-  sian.  &quot;Salaam  aleikum,&quot;  she  told  the  mirror  every  morning.  Her  daughter  watched,  startled,  from  her  place  on  the  potty-chair.  Elizabeth  ran  through  possible  situations  in  her  mind  and  looked  up  the  words  for  them.  &quot;Would  you  like  more  tea?  Do  you  take  sug-  ar?&quot;  At  suppertime  she  spoke  Persian  to  her  husband,  who  looked  amused  at  the  new  tone  she  gave  his  language  with  her  flat,  factual  556e6974656420537461746573n  voice.  He  wrote  his  mother  and  told  her  Elizabeth  had  a  surprise  for  her.  Their  house  was  a  three-story  brick  Colonial,  but  only  the  first  two  stories  were  in  use.  Now  they  cleared  the  third  of  its  trunks  and  china  barrels  and  National  Geographics,  and  they  moved  in  a  few  pieces  of  furniture.  Elizabeth  sewed  flowered  curtains  for  the  window.  She  was  unusually  careful  with  them;  to  a  foreign  mother-in-law,  fine  seams  might  matter.  Also,  Hassan  bought  a  pocket  compass,  which  he  placed  in  the  top  dresser  drawer.  &quot;For  her  prayers,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;She'll  want  to  face  Mecca.  She  prays  three  times  a  day.&quot;  &quot;But  which  direction  is  Mecca  from  here?&quot;  Elizabeth  asked.  Hassan  only  shrugged.  He  had  never  said  the  prayers  himself,  not  even  as  a  child.  His  earliest  memory  was  of  tickling  the  soles  of  his  mother's  feet  while  she  prayed  steadfastly  on;  ev-  eryone  knew  it  was  forbidden  to  pause  once  you'd  started.  Mrs.  ArDAVI  felt  nervous  about  the  descent  from  the  plane,  She  inched  down  the  staircase  sideways,  one  hand  tight  on  the  railing,  the  other  clutching  her  shawl.  It  was  night,  and  cold.  The  air  seemed  curiously  opaque.  She  arrived  on  solid  ground  and  stood  collecting  herself-a  small,  stocky  woman  in  black,  with  a  kerchief  over  her  smooth  gray  hair.  She  held  her  back  very  straight,  as  if  she  had  just  had  her  feelings  hurt.  In  picturing  this  moment  she  had  always  thought  Has-  san  would  be  waiting  beside  the  plane,  but  there  was  no  sign  of  him.  Blue  lights  dotted  the  darkness  behind  her,  an  angular  terminal  loomed  ahead,  and  an  official  was  herding  the  pas-  sengers  toward  a  plate-glass  door.  She  followed,  entangled  in  a  web  of  mean-  ingless  sounds  such  as  those  you  might  hear  in  a  fever  dream.  Immigration.  Baggage  Claims.  Cus-  toms.  To  all  she  spread  her  hands  and  beamed  and  shrugged,  showing  she  spoke  no  English.  Meanwhile  her  fel-  low-passengers  waved  to  a  blur  of  faces  beyond  a  glass  wall.  It  seemed  they  all  knew  people  here;  she  was  the  only  one  who  didn't.  She  had  issued  from  the  plane  like  a  newborn  baby,  speech-  less  and  friendless.  And  the  customs  of-  ficial  didn't  seem  pleased  with  her.  She  had  brought  too  many  gifts.  She  had  stuffed  her  bags  with  them,  discarding  all  but  the  most  necessary  pieces  of  her  clothing  so  that  she  would  have  more  room,  'There  were  silver  tea  sets  and  gold  jewelry  for  her  daughter-in-  law,  and  for  her  granddaughter  a  doll  dressed  in  the  complicated  costume  of  a  nomad  tribe,  an  embroidered  sheep-  skin  vest,  and  two  religious  medals  on  chains-one  a  disc  inscribed  with  the  name  of  Allah,  the  other  a  tiny  gold  Koran  with  a  very  effective  prayer  for  long  life  folded  up  within  it.  The  customs  official  sifted  gold  through  his  fingers  like  sand  and  frowned  at  the  Koran.  &quot;Have  I  done  something  wrong?&quot;  she  asked.  But  of  course  he  didn't  understand  her.  Though  you'd  think,  really,  that  if  he  would  just  listen  hard  enough,  just  meet  her  eyes  once  .  ..  it  was  a  very  simple  language,  there  was  no  reason  why  it  shouldn't  come  through  to  him.  For  Hassan,  she'd  brought  food.  She  had  gathered  all  his  favorite  foods  and  put  them  in  a  drawstring  bag  em-  broidered  with  peacocks.  When  the  of-  ficial  opened  the  bag  he  said  something  under  his  breath  and  called  another  man  over.  Together  they  unwrapped  tiny  newspaper  packets  and  sniffed  at  various  herbs.  &quot;Sumac,&quot;  she  told  them.  &quot;Powder  of  lemons.  Shambalileh.&quot;  They  gazed  at  her  blankly.  They  un-  tied  a  small  cloth  sack  and  rummaged  through  the  kashk  she  had  brought  for  soup.  It  rolled  beneath  their  fingers  and  across  the  counter-hard  white  balls  of  yogurt  curd,  stuck  with  bits  of  sheep  hair  and  manure.  Some  peas-  ant  had  labored  for  hours  to  make  that  kashk.  Mrs.  Ardavi  picked  up  one  piece  and  replaced  it  firmly  in  the  sack.  Maybe  the  official  understood  her  meaning:  she  was  running  out  of  patience.  He  threw  up  his  hands.  He  slid  her  belongings  down  the  counter.  She  was  free  to  go.  Free  to  go  where?  Dazed  and  stumbling,  a  pyramid  of  knobby  parcels  and  bags,  scraps  of  velvet  and  brocade  and  tapestry,  she  made  her  way  to  the  glass  wall.  A  door  opened  out  of  nowhere  and  a  stranger  blocked  her  path.  &quot;Khanom  Jun,&quot;  he  said.  It  was  a  name  that  only  her  chil-  dren  would  use,  but  she  passed  him  blindly  and  he  had  to  touch  her  arm  before  she  would  look  up.  He  had  put  on  weight.  She  didn't  know  him.  The  last  time  she'd  seen  him  he  was  a  thin,  stoop-shouldered  medical  student  disappearing  into  an  Air  [REDACTED]  jet  without  a  backward  glance.  &quot;Khanom  Jun,  it's  me,&quot;  this  stranger  said,  but  she  went  on  search-  ing  his  face  with  cloudy  eyes.  No  doubt  he  was  a  bearer  of  bad  news.  Was  that  it?  A  recurrent  dream  had  warned  her  that  she  would  never  see  her  son  again-that  he  would  die  on  his  way  to  the  airport,  or  had  already  been  dead  for  months  but  no  one  wanted  to  break  the  news;  some  second  or  third  cousin  in  [REDACTED]  had  continued  signing  Has-  san's  name  to  his  cheerful,  anonymous  letters.  Now  here  was  this  man  with  graying  hair  and  athick  mustache,  his  clothes  556e6974656420537461746573n  but  his  face  4972616eian,  his  eyes  sadly  familiar,  as  if  they  be-  longed  to  someone  else.  &quot;Don't  you  believe  me?&quot;  he  said.  He  kissed  her  on  both  cheeks.  It  was  his  smell  she  recog-  nized  first-a  pleasantly  bitter,  herblike  smell  that  brought  her  the  image  of  Hassan  as  a  child,  reaching  thin  arms  around  her  neck.  &quot;It's  you,  Hassan,&quot;  " b"she  said,  and  then  she  started  crying  against  his  gray  tweed  shoulder.  HEY  were  quiet  during  the  long  drive  home.  Once  she  reached  over  to  touch  his  face,  having  wanted  to  do  so  for  miles.  None  of  the  out-of-  focus  snapshots  he'd  sent  had  prepared  her  forthe  way  he  had  aged.  &quot;How  long  has  it  been?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;Twelve  years?&quot;  But  both  of  them  knew  to  the  day  how  long  it  had  been.  All  those  letters  of  hers:  &quot;My  dear  Hassan,  ten  years  now  and  still  your  place  is  emp-  ty.&quot;  &quot;Eleven  years  and  still  ...&quot;  Hassan  squinted  through  the  wind-  shield  at  the  oncoming  headlights.  His  mother  started  fretting  over  her  ker-  chief,  which  she  knew  she  ought  not  to  have  worn.  She'd  been  told  so  by  her  youngest  sister,  who  had  been  to  Amer-  ica  twice.  &quot;It  marks  you,&quot;  her  sister  had  said.  But  that  square  of  silk  was  the  last,  shrunken  reminder  of  the  veil  she  used  to  hide  beneath,  before  the  previous  Shah  had  banished  such  things.  At  her  age,  how  could  she  expose  her-  self?  And  then  her  teeth;  her  teeth  were  a  problem  too.  Her  youngest  sis-  ter  had  said,  &quot;You  ought  to  get  den-  tures  made,  I'm  sure  there  aren't  three  whole  teeth  in  your  head.&quot;  But  Mrs.  Ardavi  was  scared  of  dentists.  Now  she  covered  her  mouth  with  one  hand  and  lookedsideways  at  Hassan,  though  so  far  he  hadn't  seemed  to  notice.  He  was  busy  maneuvering  his  car  into  the  right-hand  lane.  This  silence  was  the  last  thing  she  had  expected.  For  weeks  she'd  been  saving  up  stray  bits  of  gossip,  weaving  together  the  family  stories  she  would  tell  him.  There  were  three  hundred  people  in  her  family-most  of  them  re-  lated  to  each  other  in  three  or  four  different  ways,  all  leading  intricate  and  scandalous  lives  she  had  planned  to  dis-  cuss  in  detail,  but  instead  she  stared  sadly  out  the  window.  You'd  think  Hassan  would  ask.  You'd  think  they  could  have  a  better  conversation  than  this,  after  such  a  long  time.  Disappoint-  ment  made  her  cross,  and  now  she  stubbornly  refused  to  speak  even  when  she  saw  something  she  wanted  to  com-  ment  on,  some  imposing  building  or  unfamiliar  brand  of  car  sliding  past  her  into  thedarkness.  By  the  timethey  arrived  it  was  near-  ly  midnight.  None  of  the  houses  were  lit  but  Hassan's-worn  brick,  older  than  she  would  have  expected.  &quot;Here  we  are,&quot;  said  Hassan.  The  competence  with  which  he  parked  the  car,  fitting  it  neatly  into  a  small  space  by  the  curb,  put  him  firmly  on  the  other  side  of  the  fence,  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  side.  She  would     have  to  face  her  daughter-in-law  alone.  As  they  climbed  the  front  steps  she  whispered,  &quot;How  do  you  say  it  again?&quot;  &quot;Say  what?&quot;  Hassan  asked.  &quot;Her  name.  Lizabet?&quot;  &quot;Elizabeth.  Like  Elizabeth  Taylor.  You  know.&quot;  &quot;'Yes,  yes,  of  course,&quot;  said  his  moth-  er.  Then  she  lifted  her  chin,  holding  tight  to  the  straps  of  her  purse.  Elizabeth  was  wearing  bluejeans  and  a  pair  of  fluffy  slippers,  Her  hair  was  blond  as  corn  silk,  cut  short  and  straight,  and  her  face  had  the  grave,  sleepy  look  of  a  child's.  As  soon  as  she  had  opened  the  door  she  said,  &quot;Salaam  aleikum.&quot;  Mrs.  Ardavi,  overcome  with  relief  at  the  Persian  greeting,  threw  her  arms  around  her  and  kissed  both  cheeks.  Then  they  led  her  into  the  liv-  ing  room,  which  looked  comfortable  but  a  little  too  plain.  The  furniture  was  straight-edged,  the  tugs  uninteresting,  though  the  curtains  had  a  nice  figured  pattern  that  caught  her  eye.  Inone  corner  sat  a  shiny  red  kiddie  car  com-  plete  with  license  plates.  &quot;Is  that  the  child's?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;Hilary's?&quot;  She  hesitated  over  the  name.  &quot;Could  I  see  her?&quot;  &quot;Now?&quot;  said  Hassan.  But  Elizabeth  told  him,  &quot;That's  all  right.&quot;  (Women  understood  these  things.)  She  beckoned  to  her  mother-  in-law.  They  climbed  the  stairs  to-  gether,  up  to  the  second  floor,  into  a  little  room  that  smelled  of  milk  and  rubber  and  talcum  powder,  smells  she  would  know  anywhere.  Even  in  the  half-light  from  the  hallway,  she  could  tell  that  Hilary  was  beautiful.  She  had  black,  tumbling  hair,  long  black  lashes,  and  skin  of  a  tone  they  called  wheat-colored,  lighter  than  Hassan's.  &quot;There,&quot;  said  Elizabeth.  &quot;Thank  you,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Ardavi.  Her  voice  was  for-  mal,  but  this  was  her  first  grandchild  and  it  took  her  a  moment  to  recover  herself.  Then  they  stepped  back  into  the  hallway.  &quot;I  brought  her  some  medals,&quot;  she  whispered.  &quot;I  hope  you  don't  mind.&quot;  &quot;Medals?&quot;  said  Elizabeth.  She  re-  peated  the  word  anxiously,  mispro-  nouncing  it.  &quot;Only  an  Allah  and  a  Koran,  both  very  tiny.  You'll  hardly  know  they're  there.  I'm  not  used  to  seeing  a  child  without  a  medal.  It  worries  me.&quot;  Automatically  her  fingers  traced  a  chain  around  her  neck,  ending  in  the  hollow  of  her  collarbone.  Elizabeth  nodded,  looking  relieved.  &quot;OA  yes.  Medals,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Is  that  all  right?&quot;  'Yes,  of  course.&quot;  Mrs.  Ardavi  took  heart.  &quot;Hassan  laughs,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;He  doesn't  believe  in  these  things.  But  when  he  left  I  put  a  prayer  in  his  suitcase  pocket,  and  you  see  he's  been  protected.  Now  if  Hilary  wore  a  medal,  I  could  sleep  nights.&quot;  &quot;Of  course,&quot;  Elizabeth  said  again.  When  they  re\xc3\xa9ntered  the  living  room,  Mrs.  Ardavi  was  smiling,  and  she  kissed  Hassan  on  thetop  of  his  head  before  she  sat  down.  AMERICAN  days  were  tightly  sched-  uled,  divided  not  into  morning  and  afternoon  but  into  9:00,  9:30,  and  so  forth,  each  half  hour  possess-  ing  its  own  set  activity.  It  was  marvel-  lous.  Mrs.  Ardavi  wrote  her  sisters:  'They're  more  organized  here.  My  daughter-in-law  never  wastes  a  min-  ute.&quot;  How  terrible,  her  sisters  wrote  back,  They  were  all  in  4972616e,  " b"drinking  cup  after  cup  of  tea  and  idly  guessing  who  might  come  and  visit.  &quot;No,  you  misunderstand,&quot;  Mrs.  Ar-  davi  protested.  &quot;I  like  it  this  way.  I'm  fitting  in  wonderfully.&quot;  And  to  her  youngest  sister  she  wrote,  &quot;You'd  think  I  was  556e6974656420537461746573n.  No  one  guesses  other-  wise.&quot;  This  wasn't  true,  of  course,  but  she  hoped  it  would  be  true  in  the  fu-  ture.  Hassan  was  a  doctor.  He  worked  long  hours,  from  six  in  the  morning  until  six  at  night.  While  she  was  still  washing  for  her  morning  prayers  she  could  hear  him  tiptoe  down  the  stairs  and  out  the  front  door.  His  car  would  start  up,  a  distant  rumble  far  below  her,  and  from  her  bathroom  window  she  could  watch  it  swing  out  from  be-  neath  a  tatter  of  red  leaves  and  round  the  corner  and  disappear.  Then  she  would  sigh  and  return  to  her  sink.  Before  prayers  she  had  to  wash  her  face,  her  hands,  and  the  soles  of  her  feet.  She  had  to  draw  her  wet  fingers  down  the  part  in  her  hair.  After  that  she  returned  to  her  room,  where  she  swathed  herself  tightly  in  her  long  black  veil  and  knelt  on  a  beaded  velvet  prayer  mat.  East  was  where  the  win-  dow  was,  curtained  by  chintz  and  mist-  ed  over.  On  the  east  wall  she  hung  a  lithograph  of  the  Caliph  Ali  and  a  color  snapshot  of  her  third  son,  Babak,  whose  marriage  she  had  arranged  just  a  few  months  before  this  visit.  If  Babak  hadn't  married,  she  never  could  have  come.  He  was  the  youngest,  spoiled  by  being  the  only  son  at  home.  It  had  taken  her  three  years  to  find  a  wife  for  him.  (One  was  too  modern,  one  too  lazy,  one  so  perfect  she  had  been  suspicious.)  But  finally  the  proper  girl  had  turned  up,  modest  and  well-  mannered  and  sufficiently  wide  of  hip,  and  Mrs.  Ardavi  and  the  bridal  couple  had  settled  in  a  fine  new  house  on  the  outskirts  of  4972616e.  Now  every  time  she  prayed,  she  added  a  word  of  thanks  that  at  last  she  had  a  home  for  her  old  age.  After  that,  she  unwound  her  veil  and  laid  it  carefully  in  a  drawer.  From  another  drawer  she  took  thick  cotton  stockings  and  elastic  gar-  ters;  she  stuffed  her  swollen  feet  in-  to  open-toed  vinyl  sandals.  Unless  she  was  going  out,  she  wore  a  housecoat.  It  amazed  her  how  wasteful  Ameri-  cans  were  with  their  clothing.  Downstairs,  Elizabeth  would  have  started  her  tea  and  buttered  a  piece  of  toast  for  her.  Elizabeth  and  Hilary  ate  bacon  and  eggs,  but  bacon  of  course  was  unclean  and  Mrs.  Ardavi  never  accepted  any.  Nor  had  it  even  been  of-  fered  to  her,  except  once,  jokingly,  by  Hassan.  The  distinctive,  smoky  smell  rose  to  meet  her  as  she  descended  the  stairs.  &quot;What  does  it  taste  like?&quot;  she  always  asked.  She  was  dying  to  know.  But  Elizabeth's  vocabulary  didn't  cov-  er  the  taste  of  bacon;  she  only  said  it  was  salty  and  then  laughed  and  gave  up.  They  had  learned  very  early  to  travel  a  well-worn  conversational  path,  avoiding  the  dead  ends  caused  by  unfamiliar  words.  &quot;Did  you  sleep  well?&quot;  Elizabeth  always  asked  in  her  funny,  childish  accent,  and  Mrs.  Ar-  davi  answered,  &quot;So-so.&quot;  Then  they  would  turn  and  watch  Hilary,  who  sat  on  a  booster  seat  eating  scrambled  eggs,  a  thin  chain  of  Persian  gold  cross-  ing  the  back  of  her  neck.  Conversation  was  easier,  or  even  unnecessary,  as  long  as  Hilary  was  there.  In  the  mornings  Elizabeth  cleaned  house.  Mrs.  Ardavi  used  that  time  for  letter  writing.  She  had  dozens  of  let-  ters  to  write,  to  all  her  aunts  and  uncles  and  her  thirteen  sisters.  (Her  father  had  had  three  wives,  and  a  surprising  number  of  children  even  for  that  day  and  age.)  Then  there  was  Babak.  His  wife  was  in  her  second  month  of  pregnancy,  so  Mrs.  Ardavi  wrote  long  accounts  of  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  child-rearing  methods.  &quot;There  are  some  things  I  don't  agree  with,&quot;  she  wrote.  &quot;They  let  Hilary  play  outdoors  by  herself,  with  not  even  a  servant  to  keep  an  eye  on  her.&quot;  Then  she  would  trail  off  and  gaze  thoughtfully  at  Hil-  ary,  who  sat  on  the  floor  watching  a  television  program  called  &quot;Captain  Kangaroo.&quot;  Mrs.  Ardavi's  own  childhood  had  been  murky  and  grim.  From  the  age  of  nine  she  was  wrapped  in  a  veil,  one  corner  of  it  clenched  in  her  teeth  to  hide  her  face  whenever  she  appeared  on  the  streets.  Her  father,  a  respected  man  high  up  in  public  life,  used  to  chase  servant  girls  through  the  halls  and  trap  them,  giggling,  in  vacantbed-  rooms.  At  the  age  of  ten  she  was  forced  to  watch  her  mother  bleed  to  death  in  childbirth,  and  when  she  screamed  the  midwife  had  struck  her  across  the  face  and  held  her  down  till  she  had  properly  kissed  her  mother  goodbye.  There  seemed  no  connection  at  all  between  her  and  this  little  over-  alled  556e6974656420537461746573n.  At  times,  when  Hilary  had  one  of  her  temper  tantrums,  Mrs.  Ardavi  waited  in  horror  for  Elizabeth  to  slap  her  and  then,  when  no  slap  came,  felt  a  mixture  of  relief  and  anger.  &quot;In  4972616e-&quot;  she  would  begin,  and  if  Hassan  was  there  he  always  said,  &quot;But  this  is  not  4972616e,  remember?&quot;  Afterlunch  Hilary  took  a  nap,  and  " b"Mrs.  Ardavi  went  upstairs  to  say  her  noontime  prayers  and  take  a  nap  as  well.  Then  she  might  do  a  little  laun-  dry  in  her  bathtub.  Laundry  was  a  problem  here.  Although  she  liked  Eliz-  abeth,  the  fact  was  that  the  girl  was  a  Christian,  and  therefore  unclean;  it  would  never  do  to  have  a  Christian  wash  a  Moslem's  clothes.  The  auto-  matic  dryer  was  also  unclean,  having  contained,  at  some  point,  a  Christian's  underwear.  So  she  had  to  ask  Hassan  to  buy  her  a  drying  rack.  It  came  un-  assembled.  Elizabeth  put  it  together  for  her,  stick  by  stick,  and  then  Mrs.  Ardavi  held  it  under  her  showerand  rinsed  it  off,  hoping  that  would  be  enough  to  remove  any  taint.  The  Ko-  ran  didn't  cover  this  sort  of  situation.  When  Hilary  was  up  from  her  nap  they  walked  her  to  the  park-Eliza-  beth  in  her  eternal  bluejeans  and  Mrs.  Ardavi  in  her  kerchief  and  shawl,  tak-  ing  short  painful  steps  in  small  shoes  that  bulged  over  her  bunions.  They  still  hadn't  seen  to  her  teeth,  although  by  now  Hassan  had  noticed  them.  She  was  hoping  he  might  forget  about  the  dentist,  but  then  she  saw  him  remem-  bering  every  time  she  laughed  and  re-  vealed  her  five  brown  teeth  set  wide  apart.  At  the  park  she  laughed  a  great  deal.  It  was  her  only  way  of  communi-  cating  with  the  other  women.  They  sat  on  the  benches  ringing  the  play-  ground,  and  while  Elizabeth  translated  their  questions  Mrs.  Ardavi  laughed  and  nodded  at  them  over  and  over.  &quot;They  want  to  know  if  you  like  it  here,&quot;  Elizabeth  said.  Mrs.  Ardavi  an-  swered  at  length,  but  Elizabeth's  translation  was  very  short.  Then  grad-  ually  the  other  women  forgot  her,  and  conversation  rattled  on  while  she  sat  silent  and  watched  each  speaker's  lips.  The  few  recognizable  words-&quot;tele-  phone,&quot;  &quot;television,&quot;  &quot;radio&quot;-gave  her  the  impression  that  556e6974656420537461746573n  con-  versations  were  largely  technical,  even  among  women.  Their  gestures  were  wide  and  slow,  disproving  her  youngest  sister's  statement  that  in  [REDACTED]  ev-  eryone  was  in  a  hurry,  On  the  con-  trary,  these  women  were  dreamlike,  moving  singly  or  in  twos  across  wide  flat  spaces  beneath  white  November  skies  when  they  departed.  Later,  at  home,  Mrs.  Ardavi  would  say,  &quot;The  red-haired  girl,  is  she  preg-  nant?  She  looked  it,  I  thought.  Is  the  fat  girl  happy  in  her  marriage?&quot;  She  asked  with  some  urgency,  plucking  Elizabeth's  sleeve  when  she  was  slow  to  answer.  People's  private  lives  fasci-  nated  her.  On  Saturday  trips  to  the  supermarket  she  liked  to  single  out some  interesting  stranger.  &quot;What's  the  matter  with  that  jerky-moving  man?  That  girl,  is  she  one  of  your  dark  skinned  people?&quot;  Elizabeth  answered  too  softly,  and  never  seemed  to  follow  Mrs.  Ardavi's  pointing  finger.  Supper  was  difficult;  Mrs.  Ardavi  didn't  like  556e6974656420537461746573n  food.  Even  when  Elizabeth  made  something  4972616eian,  it  had  an  556e6974656420537461746573n  taste  to  it--the  vege-  tables  still  faintly  crisp,  the  onions  transparent  rather  than  nicely  black-  ened.  &quot;Vegetables  not  thoroughly  cooked  retain  a  certain  acidity,&quot;  Mrs.  Ardavi  said,  laying  down  her  fork.  &quot;This  is  a  cause  of  constipation  and  stomach  aches.  At  night  I  often  have  heartburn.  It's  been  three  full  days  since  I  moved  my  bowels.&quot;  Elizabeth  merely  bent  over  her  plate,  offering  no  symptoms  of  her  own  in  return.  Has-san  said,  &quot;At  the  table,  Khanom?  At  the  table?&quot;  Eventually  she  decided  to  cook  sup-  per  herself.  Over  Elizabeth's  protests  she  began  at  three  every  afternoon,  filling  the  house  with  the  smell  of  dill-  weed  and  arranging  pots  on  counters  and  cabinets  and  finally,  when  there  was  no  more  space,  on  the  floor.  She  squatted  on  the  floor  with  her  skirt  tucked  between  her  knees  and  stirred  great  bowls  of  minced  greens  while  behind  her,  on  the  gas  range,four  different  pots  of  food  bubbled  and  steamed.  The  kitchen  was  becoming  more  homelike,  she  thought.  A  bow!  of  yogurt  brewed  beside  the  stove,  a  kettle  of  rice  soaked  in  the  sink,  and  the  top  of  the  dishwasher  was  curlicued  with  the  yellow  dye  from  saffron.  In  one  corner  sat  the  pudding  pan,  black  on  the  bottom  from  the  times  she  had  cooked  down  sugar  to  make  a  sweet  for  her  intestines.  &quot;Now,  this  is  your  rest  period,&quot;  she  always  told  Elizabeth.  &quot;Come  to  the  table  in  three  hours  and  be  surprised.&quot;  But  Elizabeth  only  hov-  ered  around  the  kitchen,  disturbing  the  serene,  steam-filled  air  with  clatters  and  slams  as  she  put  away  pots  or  pacing  between  stove  and  sink,  her  arms  folded  across  her  chest.  At  supper  she  ate  little;  Mrs.  Ardavi  wondered  how  556e6974656420537461746573ns  got  so  tall  on  such  small  " b"suppers.  Hassan,  on  the  other  hand,  had  second  and  third  helpings.  &quot;I  must  be  gaining  five  pounds  a  week,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;None  of  my  clothes  fit.&quot;  &quot;That's  good  to  hear,&quot;  said  his  mother.  And  Elizabeth  added  some-  thing  but  in  English,  which  Hassan  answered  in  English  also.  Often  now  they  broke  into  English  for  paragraphs  at  a  time-Elizabeth  speaking  softly,  looking  at  her  plate,  and  Hassan  an-  swering  at  length  and  sometimes  reach-  ing  across  the  table  to  coverher  hand.  At  night,  after  her  evening  prayers,  Mrs.  Ardavi  watched  television  on  the  living-room  couch.  She  brought  her  veil  downstairs  and  wrapped  it  around  her  to  keep  the  drafts  away.  Her  shoes  lay  on  the  rug  beneath  her,  and  scat-  tered  down  the  length  of  the  couch  were  her  knitting  bag,  her  sack  of  burnt  sugar,  her  magnifying  glass,  and  &quot;My  First  Golden  Dictionary.&quot;  Eliza-  beth  read  novels  in  an  easy  chair,  and  Hassan  watched  TV  so  that  he  could  translate  the  difficult  partsof  the  plot.  Not  that  Mrs.  Ardavi  had  much  trou-  ble,  556e6974656420537461746573n  plots  were  easy  to  guess  at,  particularly  the  Westerns.  And  when  the  program  was  boring-a  doc-  umentary  or  a  special  news  feature-  she  could  pass  the  time  by  talking  to  Hassan.  &quot;Your  cousin  Farah  wrote,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Do  you  remember  her?  A  homely  girl,  too  dark.  She's  getting  a  divorce  and  in  my  opinion  it's  fortu-  nate;  he's  from  a  lower  class.  Do  you  remember  Farah?&quot;  Hassan  only  grunted,  his  eyes  on  the  screen.  He  was  interested  in  556e6974656420537461746573n  politics.  So  was  she,  for  that  matter.  She  had  wept  for  President  Kennedy,  and  carried  Jackie's  picture  in  her  purse.  But  these  news  programs  were  long  and  dry,  and  if  Hassan  wouldn't  talk  she  was  forced  to  turn  at  last  to  her  &quot;Golden  Dictionary.&quot;  In  her  childhood,  she  had  been  taught  by  expensive  foreign  tutors.  Her  mind  was  her  great  gift,  the  compensa-  tion  for  a  large,  plain  face  and  a  stocky  figure.  But  now  what  she  had  learned  seemed  lost,  forgotten  utterly  or  fogged  by  years,  so  that  Hassan  gave  a  snort  whenever  she  told  him  some  fact  that  she  had  dredged  up  from  her  memory.  It  seemed  that  everything  she  studied  now  had  to  penetrate  through  a  great  thick  layer  before  it  reached  her  mind.  &quot;Tonk  you,&quot;  she  practiced.  &quot;Tonk  you.  Tonk  you.&quot;  &quot;Thank  you,&quot;  Has-  san  corrected  her.  He  pointed  out  use-  ful  words  in  her  dictionary-grocery-  store  words,  household  words-but  she  grew  impatient  with  their  woodenness.  What  she  wanted  was  the  language  to  display  her  personality,  her  famous  courtesy  and  her  magical  intuition  about  the  inside  lives  of  other  people.  Nightly  she  learned  &quot;salt,&quot;  &quot;bread,&quot;  &quot;spoon,&quot;  but  with  an  inner  sense  of  dullness,  and  every  morning  when  she  woke  her  English  was  once  again  con-  fined  to  &quot;thank  you&quot;  and  &quot;NBC.&quot;  Elizabeth,  meanwhile,  read  on,  fin-  ishing  one  book  and  reaching  for  the  next  without  even  glancing  up.  Hassan  chewed  a  thumbnail  and  watched  a  senator.  He  shouldn't  be  disturbed,  of  course,  but  time  after  time  his  mother  felt  the  silence  and  the  whispery  turn-  ing  of  pages  stretching  her  nerves  until  she  had  to  speak.  &quot;Hassan?&quot; &quot;Hmm.&quot;  &quot;My  chest  seems  tight.  I'm  sure  a  cold  is  coming  on.  Don't  you  have  a  tonic?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  said  Hassan.  He  dispensed  medicines  all  day;  he  listened  to  complaints.  Common  sense  told  her  to  stop,  but  she  persisted,  en-  couraged  by  some  demon  that  wouldn't  let  her  tongue  lie  still.  &quot;Don't  you  have  some  syrup?  What  about  that  liquid  you  gave  me  for  constipation?  Would  that  help?&quot;  &quot;&quot;No,  it  wouldn't,&quot;  said  Hassan.  He  drove  her  on,  somehow.  The  less  he  gave,  the  more  she  had  to  " b"ask.  &quot;Well,  aspirin?  Vitamins?&quot;  Until  Hassan  said,  &quot;Will  you  just  let  me  watch?&quot;  Then  she  could  lapse  into  silence  again,  or  even  gather  up  the  clutter  of  her  belongings  and  bid  the  two  of  them  good  night.  She  slept  badly.  Often  she  lay  awake  for  hours  fingering  the  edge  of  the  sheet  and  staring  at  the  ceiling.  Mem-  ories  crowded  in  on  her,  old  grievances  and  fears,  injustices  that  had  never  been  righted.  For  the  first  time  in  years  she  thought  of  her  husband,  a  gentle,  weak  man  given  to  surprising  out-  bursts  of  temper.  She  hadn't  loved  him  when  she  married  him,  and  at  his  death  from  a  liver  ailment  six  years  later  her  main  feeling  had  been  resent-  ment.  Was  it  fair  to  be  widowed  so  young,  whileother  women  were  sup-  ported  and  protected?  She  had  moved  from  her  husband's  home  back  to  the  old  family  estate,  where  five  of  her  sisters  still  lived.  There  she  had  stayed  till  Babak's  wedding,  drinking  tea  all  day  with  her  sisters  and  pulling  the  strings  by  which  the  rest  of  the  fam-  ily  was  attached.  Marriages  were  ar-  ranged,  funerals  attended,  childbirth  discussed  infine  detail;  servants'  dis-  putes  were  settled,  and  feuds  patched  up  and  then  restarted.  Her  husband's  face  had  quickly  faded,  leaving  only  a  vacant  spot  in  her  mind.  But  now  she  could  see  him  so  clearly-a  wasted  figure  on  his  deathbed,  beard  un-  trimmed,  turban  coming  loose,  eyes  imploring  her  for  something  more  than  an  absentminded  pat  on  the  cheek  as  she  passed  through  his  room  on  her  way  to  check  the  children.  She  saw  the  thin  faces  of  her  three     small  boys  as  they  sat  on  the  rug  eating  rice.  Hassan  was  the  stubborn,  mis-  chievous  one,  with  perpetual  scabs  on  his  knees.  Babak  was  the  cuddly  one.  Ali  was  the  oldest,  who  had  caused  so  much  worry-weak,  like  his  father,  de-  manding,  but  capable  of  turning  sud-  denly  charming.  Four  years  ago  he  had  died  of  a  brain  hemorrhage,  slumping  over  a  dinner  table  in  faraway  Shiraz,  where  he'd  gone  to  be  free  of  his  wife,  who  was  also  his  double  first  cousin.  Ever  since  he  was  born  he  had  dis-  turbed  his  mother's  sleep,  first  because  she  worried  over  what  he  would  amount  to  and  now,  after  his  death,  because  she  lay  awake  listing  all  she  had  done  wrong  with  him.  She  had  been  too  lenient.  No,  too  harsh.  There  was  no  telling.  Mistakes  she  had  made  floated  on  the  ceiling  like  ghosts-al-  lowances  she'd  made  when  she  knew  she  shouldn't  have,  protections  he  had  not  deserved,  blows  which  perhaps  he  had  not  deserved  either.  She  would  have  liked  totalk  to  Hassan  about  it,  but  any  time  she  tried  he  changed  the  subject.  Maybe  he  was  angry  about  the  way  he  had  heard  of  Ali's  death.  It  was  customary  to  break  such  news  gradually.  She  had  started  a  series  of  tactful  letters,  beginning  by  saying  that  Ali  was  seriously  ill  when  in  truth  he  was  already  buried.  Some-  thing  in  the  letter  had  given  her  away-perhaps  her  plans  for  a  rest  cure  by  the  seaside,  which  she  never  would  have  considered  if  she'd  had  an  ailing  son  at  home.  Hassan  had  tele-  phoned  overseas,  taking  three  nights  to  reach  her.  &quot;Tell  me  what's  wrong,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;I  know  there's  something.&quot; When  her  tears  kept  her  from  answer  ing,  he  asked,  &quot;Is  he  dead?&quot;  His  voice  sounded  angry,  but  that  might  have  been  due  to  a  poor  connection.  And  when  he  hung  up,  cutting  her  off  be-  fore  she  could  say  all  she  wanted,  she  thought,  I  should  have  told  him  straight  out.  I  had  forgotten  that  about  him.  Now  when  she  spoke  of  Ali  he  listened  politely,  with  his  face  frozen.  She  would  have  told  him  anything,  all  about  the  death  and  burial  and  that  witch  of  a  wife  throwing  herself,  too  late,  into  the  grave;  but  Hassan  never  asked.  Death  was  moving  in  on  her.  Oh,  not  on  her  personally  (the  women  in  her  family  lived  a  century  or  longer,  burying  the  men  one  by  one)  but  on  everybody  around  her,  all  the  cousins  and  uncles  and  brothers-in-law.  No  sooner  had  she  laid  away  her  mourn-  ing  clothes  than  it  was  time  to  bring  them  out  again.  Recently  she  had  be-  gun  to  feel  she  would  outlive  her  two  other  sons  as  well,  and  she  fought  off  sleep  because  of  the  dreams  it  brought-Babak  lying  stiff  and  cold  in  his  grave,  Hassan  crumpled  over  in  some  dark  556e6974656420537461746573n  alley.  Terrifving  images  would  zoom  at  her  out  of  the  night.  In  the  end  she  had  to  wrap  her-  self  in  her  veil  and  sleep  instead  on  the  Persian  rug,  which  had  the  dusty  smell  of  home  and  was,  anyway,  more  com-  fortable  than  her  unsteady  foreign  mat-  tress.  T  Christmastime,  Hassan  and  Elizabeth  gave  Mrs.  Ardavi  a  brightly  colored  556e6974656420537461746573n  dress  with  short  sleeves.  She  wore  it  to  an  4972616eian  party,  even  leaving  off  her  kerchief  in  a  sudden  fit  of  daring.  Everyone  commented  on  how  nice  she  looked.  &quot;Really  you  fit  right  in,&quot;  a  girl  told  her.  &quot;May  I  write  to  my  mother  about  you?  She  was  over  here  for  a  year  and  a  half  and  never  once  stepped  out  of  the  house  without  her  kerchief.&quot;  Mrs.  Ardavi  beamed.  It  was  true  she  would  never  have  associated  with  these  people  at  home-children  of  civil  servants  and  bank  clerks,  newly  rich  now  they'd  fin-  ished  medical  school.  The  wives  called  their  husbands  &quot;Doctor&quot;  even  in  di-  rect  address.  But  still  it  felt  good  to  be  speaking  so  much  Persian;  her  tongue  nearly  ran  away  with  her.  &quot;I  see  you're  expecting  a  baby,&quot;  she  said  to  one  ofthe  wives.  &quot;Is  it  your  first?  I  could  tell  by  your  eyes.  Now  don't  be  nervous.  I  had  three  myself;  my  moth-  er  had  seven  and  never  felt  a  pain  in  her  life,  She  would  squat  down  to  serve  my  father's  breakfast  and  'Eh?'  she  would  say.  'Aga  Jun,  it's  the  baby!&quot;  and  there  it  would  be  on  the  floor  be-  " b"tween  her  feet,  waiting  for  her  to  cut  the  cord  and  finish  pouring  the  tea.&quot;  She  neglected  to  mention  how  her  mother  had  died.  All  her  natural  tact  came  back  to  her,  her  gift  with  words  and  her  knowledge  of  how  to  hold  an  audience.  She  bubbled  and  sparkled  like  a  girl,  and  her  face  fell  when  it  was  time  to  go  home.  After  the  party,  she  spent  two  or  three  days  noticing  more  keenly  than  ever  the  loss  of  her  language,  and  talk-  ing  more  feverishly  when  Hassan  came  home  in  the  evening.  This  business  of  being  a  foreigner  was  something  changeable.  Boundaries  kept  shifting,  and  sometimes  it  was  she  who  was  the  foreigner  but  other  times  Elizabeth,  or  even  Hassan.  (Wasn't  it  true,  she  of-  ten  wondered,  that  there  was  a  great-  er  distance  between  men  and  women  than  between  556e6974656420537461746573ns  and  4972616eians,  or  even  Eskimos  and  4972616eians?)  Has-  san  was  the  foreigner  when  she  and  Elizabeth  conspired  to  hide  a  miniature  Koran  in  his  glove  compartment;  he  would  have  laughed  at  them.  &quot;You  see,&quot;  she  told  Elizabeth,  &quot;I  know  there's  nothing  to  it,  but  it  makes  me  feel  better.  When  my  sons  were  born  I  took  them  all  to  the  bath  attendant  to  have  their  blood  let.  Peo-  ple  say  it  brings  long  life.  I  know  that's  supersti-  tion,  but  whenever  after-  ward  I  saw  those  ridges  down  their  backs  I  felt  safe.  Don't  you  under-  stand?&quot;  And  Elizabeth  said,  &quot;Of  course.&quot;  She  smuggled  the  Koran  into  the  car  herself,  and  hid  it  beneath  the  Texaco  maps.  Hassan  saw  noth-  ing.  Hilary  was  a  foreign-  er  forever.  She  dodged  her  grandmother's  yearning  hands,  and  when  the  grownups  spoke  Persian  she  fret-  ted  and  misbehaved  and  pulled  on  Elizabeth's  sleeve.  Mrs.  Ardavi  had  to  remind  herself  con-  stantly  not  to  kiss  the  child  too  much,  not  to  reach  out  for  a  hug,  not  to  offer  her  lap.  In  this  country  people  kept  more  separate.  They  kept  so  separate  thatat  times  she  felt  hurt.  They  tried  to  be  so  subtle,  so  undemonstrative.  She  would  never  un-  derstand  this  place.  IN  January  they  took  her  to  a  dentist,  who  made  clucking  noises  when  he  looked  in  her  mouth.  &quot;What  doeshe  say?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;'Tell  me  the  worst.&quot;  But  Hassan  was  talking  in  a  low  voice  to  Elizabeth,  and  he  waved  her  aside.  They  seemed  to  be  having  a  misunder-  standing  of  some  sort.  &quot;What  does  he  say,  Hassan?&quot;  &quot;Just  a  minute.&quot;  She  craned  around  in  the  high-  backed  chair,  fighting  off  the  dentist's  little  mirror.  &quot;I  have  to  know,&quot;  she  told  Hassan.  &quot;He  says  your  teeth  are  terrible,.  They  have  to  be  extracted  and  the  gums  surgically  smoothed.  He  wants  to  know  if  you'll  be  here  for  another  few  months,  he  can't  schedule  you  till  later.&quot;  A  cold  lump  of  fear  settled  in  her  stomach.  Unfortunately  she  would  be  here;  it  had  only  been  three  months  so  far  and  she  was  planning  to  stay  a  year.  So  she  had  to  watch  numbly  while  her  life  was  signed  away,  whole  strings  of  appointments  made  and  little  white  cards  filled  out.  And  Hassan  didn't  even  look  sympathetic.  He  was  still  involved  in  whatever  this  argu-  ment  was  with  Elizabeth.  The  two  of  them  failed  to  notice  how  her  hands  were  shaking.  IT  snowed  all  of  January,  the  worst  snow  they  had  had  in  years.  When  she  came  downstairs  in  the  mornings  she  found  the  kitchen  icy  cold,  criss-  crossed  by  drafts.  &quot;This  sort  of  cold  enters  your  bones,&quot;  she  told  Elizabeth.  &quot;I'm  sure  to  fall  sick.&quot;  Elizabeth  only  nodded.  Some  mornings  now  her  face  was  pale  and  puffy,  as  if  she  had  a  secret  worry,  but  Mrs.  Ardavi  had  learned  that  it  was  better  not  to  ask  about  it.  Early  in  February  there  was  a  sudden  warm  spell.  Snow  melted  and  all  the  trees  dripped  in  the  sunshine.  &quot;We're  going  for  a  walk,&quot;  Elizabeth  said,  and  Mrs.  Ardavi  said,  &quot;I'll  come  too.&quot;  In  spite  of  the  warmth,  she  toiled  upstairs  for  her  woollen  shawl.  She  didn't  like  to  take  chances.  And  she  wor-  ried  over  Hilary's  bare  ears.  &quot;Won't  she  catch  cold?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;I  think  we  should  cover  her  head.&quot;  &quot;She'll  be  all  right,&quot;  said  Elizabeth,  and  then  shut  her  face  in  a  certain  stubborn  way  she  had.  In  the  park,  Eliz-  abeth  and  Hilary  made  snowballs  from  the  last  ofthe  snow  and  threw  them  at  each  other,  narrowly  miss-  ing  Mrs,  Ardavi,  who  stood  watching  with  her  arms  folded  and  her  hands  tucked  in  her  sleeves.  The  next  morning,  something  was  wrong  with  Hilary.  She  sat  at  the  breakfast  table  and  cried  steadily,  re-  fusing  all  food.  &quot;Now,  now,&quot;  her  grandmoth-  er  said,  &quot;won't  you  tell  old  Ka  Jun  what's  wrong?&quot;  But  when  she  came  close  Hilary     " b"screamed  louder.  By  noon  she  was  worse.  Elizabeth  called  Hassan,  and  he  came  home  immediately  and  laid  a  hand  on  Hilary's  forehead  and  said  she  should  go  to  the  pediatrician.  He  drove  them  there  himself,  &quot;It's  her  ears,  I'm  sure  of  it,&quot;  Mrs.  Ardavi  said  in  the  waiting  room.  For  some  reason  Hassan  grew  angry.  &quot;Do  you  always  know  better  than  the  experts?&quot;  he  asked  her.  &quot;What  are  we  coming  to  the  doctor  for?  We  could  have  talked  to  you  and  saved  the  trip.&quot;  His  mother  lowered  her  eyes  and  examined  her  purse  straps.  She  understood  that  he  was  anxious,  but  all  the  same  her  feelings  were  hurt  and  when  they  rose  to  go  into  the  of-  fice  she  stayed  behind.  Later  Hassan  came  back  and  sat  down  again.  &quot;There's  an  infection  in  her  middle  ear,&quot;  he  told  her.  &quot;The  doctor's  going  to  give  her  a  shot  of  penicillin.&quot;  His  mother  nodded,  care-  ful  not  to  annoy  him  by  reminding  him  she  had  thought  as  much.  Then  Hilary  started  crying.  She  must  be  getting  her  shot  now.  Mrs.  Ardavi  herself  was  ter-  rified  of  needles,  and  she  sat  gripping  her  purse  until  her  fingers  turned  white,  staring  around  the  waiting  room,  which  seemed  pathetically  cheer-  ful  with  its  worn  wooden  toys  and  nursery-school  paintings.  Her  own  ear  ached  in  sympathy.  She  thought  of  a  time  when  she  had  boxed  Ali's  ears  too  hard  and  he  had  wept  all  that  day  and  gone  to  sleep  sucking  his  thumb.  While  Hassan  was  there  she  was  careful  not  to  say  anything,  but  the  following  morning  at  breakfast  she  said,  &quot;Elizabeth  dear,  do  you  remem-  ber  that  walk  we  took  day  before  yes-  terday?&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  said  Elizabeth.  She  was  squeezing  oranges  for  Hilary,  who'd  grown  cheerful  again  and  was  eating  a  huge  breakfast.  &quot;Remember  Isaid  Hilary  should  wear  a  hat?  Now  you  see  you  should  have  been  more  careful.  Because  of  you  she  fell  sick;  she  could  have  died.  Do  you  see  that  now?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  said  Elizabeth.  Was  her  Persian  that  scanty?  Late-  ly  it  seemed  to  have  shrunk  and  hard-  ened,  like  a  stale  piece  of  bread.  Mrs.  Ardavi  sighed  and  tried  again.  &quot;With-  out  a  hat,  you  see-&quot;  she  began.  But  Elizabeth  set  down  her  orange,  picked  up  Hilary,  and  walked  out  of  the  room.  Mrs.  Ardavi  stared  after  her,  wonder-  ing  if  she'd  said  something  wrong.  For  the  rest  ofthe  day,  Elizabeth  was  busy  in  her  room.  She  was  clean-  ingout  bureaus  and  closets.  A  couple  of  times  Mrs.  Ardavi  advanced  as  far  as  the  doorway,  where  she  stood  awk-wardly  watching.  Hilary  sat  on  the  floor  playing  with  a  discarded  perfume  bottle.  Everything,  it  seemed,  was  about  to  be  thrown  away-buttonless  blouses  and  stretched-out  sweaters,  stockings  and  combs  and  empty  lipstick  tubes.  &quot;Could  I  be  of  any  help?&quot;  Mrs.  Ardavi  asked,  but  Elizabeth  said,  &quot;Oh,  no.  Thank  you  very  much.&quot;  Her  voice  was  cheerful.  Yet  when  Hassan  came  home  he  went  upstairs  and  stayed  a  long  time,  and  the  door  remained  shut  behind  him.  Supper  that  night  was  an  especially  fine  stew,  Hassan's  favorite  ever  since  childhood,  but  he  didn't  say  a  word  about  it.  He  hardly  spoke  at  all,  in  fact.  Then  later,  when  Elizabeth  was  up-  stairs  putting  Hilary  to  bed,  he  said,  &quot;Khanom  Jun,  I  want  to  talk  to  you.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  Hassan,&quot;  she  said,  laying  aside  her  knitting.  She  was  frightened  by  his  seriousness,  the  black  weight  of  his  mustache,  and  her  own  father's  deep  black  eyes.  But  what  had  she  done?  She  knotted  her  hands  and  looked  up  at  him,  swallowing.  &quot;I  understand  you've  been  interfer-  ing,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I,  Hassan?&quot;  &quot;Elizabeth  isn't  the  kind  you  can  do  that  with,.  And  she's  raising  the  child  just  fine  on  her  own.&quot;  &quot;Well,  of  course  she  is,&quot;  said  his  mother.  &quot;Did  I  ever  say  otherwise?&quot;   &quot;Show  it,  then.  Don't  offer  criti-  cisms.&quot;  &quot;Very  well,&quot;  she  said.  She  picked  up  her  knitting  and  began  counting  stitch-  es,  as  if  she'd  forgotten  the  conversa-  tion  entirely.  But  that  evening  she  was  unusually  quiet,  and  at  nine  o'clock  she  excused  herself  to  go  to  bed.  &quot;So  ear-  ly?&quot;  Hassan  asked.  &quot;I'm  tired,&quot;  she  told  him,  and  left  with  her  back  very  straight.  Her  room  surrounded  her  like  a  nest.  She  had  built  up  layers  of  herself  on  every  surface-tapestries  and  bits  of  lace  and  lengths  of  Paisley,  The  bureau  was  covered  with  gilt-framed  pictures  of  the  saints,  and  snapshots  of  her  sisters  at  family  gatherings.  On  the  windowsill  were  little  plants  in  orange  and  aqua  plastic  pots-her  favorite  556e6974656420537461746573n  colors.  Her  bedside  table  held  bottles  of  medicine,  ivory  prayer  beads,  and  a  tiny  brick  of  holy  earth.  The  rest  of  the  house  was  bare  and  shiny,  impersonal;  this  room  was  as  comforting  as  her  shawl.  Still,  she  didn't  sleep  well.  Ghosts  rose  up  again,  tugging  at  her  thoughts.  Why  did  things  turn  out  so  badly  for  her?  Her  father  had  preferred  her  brothers,  a  fact  that  crushed  her  even  after  all  these  years.  Her  husband  had  had  three  children  by  her  and  then  complained  that  she  was  cold.  And  what  comfort  were  children?  If  she  had  stayed  in  4972616e  any  longer  Babak  would  have  asked  her  to  move;  she'd  seen  it  coming.  There'd  been  some  disrespect  creeping  into  his  bride's  be-  havior,  some  unwillingness  to  take  ad-  vice,  which  Babak  had  overlooked  even  when  his  mother  pointed  it  out  to  him.  And  Hassan  was  worse-always  so  stubborn,  much  too  independent.  She  had  offered  him  anything  if  he  would  juststay  in  4972616e  but  he  had  said  no;  he  was  set  on  leaving  her.  And  he  had  flatly  refused  to  take  along  " b"his  cousin  Shora  as  his  wife,  though  everyone  pointed  out  how  lonely  he  would  be.  He  was  so  anxious  to  break  away,  to  get  going,  to  come  to  this  hardhearted  country  and  take  up  with  a  Christian  girl.  Oh,  she  should  have  laughed  when  he  left,  and  saved  her  tears  for  someone  more  deserving.  She  never  should  have  come  here,  she  never  should  have  asked  anything  of  him  again.  When  finally  she  went  to  sleep  it  seemed  that  her  eyes  remained  open,  burning  large  and  dry  beneath  her  lids.  N  the  morning  she  had  a  toothache.  She  could  hardly  walk  for  the  pain.  It  was  only  Friday  (the  first  of  her  dental  appointments  was  for  Mon-  day),  but  the  dentist  made  time  for  her  during  the  afternoon  and  pulled  the  tooth.  Elizabeth  said  it  wouldn't  hurt,  but  it  did.  Elizabeth  treated  it  as  something  insignificant,  merely  a  small  break  in  her  schedule  which  re-  quired  the  hiring  of  a  babysitter.  She  wouldn't  even  call  Hassan  home  from  work.  &quot;What  could  he  do?&quot;  she  asked.  So  when  Hassan  returned  that  eve-  ning  it  was  all  a  surprise  to  him-the  sight  of  his  mother  with  a  bloody  cot-  ton  cylinder  hanging  out  over  her  lower  lip  like  a  long  tooth.  &quot;What  happened  to  you?&quot;  he  asked.  To  make  it  worse,  Hilary  was  screaming  and  had  been  all  afternoon.  Mrs.  Ardavi  put  her  hands  over  her  ears,  wincing.  &quot;Will  you  make  that  child  hush?&quot;  Hassan  told  Elizabeth.  &quot;I  think  we  should  get  my  mother  to  bed.&quot;  He  guided  her  toward  the  stairs,  and  she  allowed  herself  to  lean  on  him.  &quot;It's  mainly  my  heart,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You  know  how  scared  I  am  of  dentists.&quot;  When  he  had  folded  back  her  bed-  spread  and  helped  her  to  lie  down  she  closed  her  eyes  gratefully,  resting  one  arm  across  her  forehead.  Even  the  comfort  of  hot  tea  was  denied  her;  she  had  to  stay  on  cold  foods  for  twelve  hours.  Hassan  fixed  her  a  glass  of  ice  water.  He  was  very  considerate,  she  thought.  He  seemed  as  shaken  at  the  sight  of  her  as  Hilary  had  been.  All  during  the  evening  hekept  coming  to  check  on  her,  and  twice  in  the  night  she  heard  him  climbing  the  stairs  to  listen  at  her  door.  When  she  moaned  he  called,  &quot;Are  you  awake?&quot;  &quot;Of  course,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Can  I  get  you  anything?&quot;  &quot;No,  no.&quot;  N  the  morning  she  descended  the  stairs  with  slow,  groping  feet,  keep-  ing  a  tight  hold  on  the  railing.  &quot;It  was  a  very  hard  night,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;At  four  my  gum  started  throbbing.  Is  that  nor-  mal?  I  think  these  556e6974656420537461746573n  pain  pills  are  constipating,  Maybe  a  little  prune  juice  would  restore  my  regularity.&quot;  &quot;I'll  get  it,&quot;  Hassan  said.  &quot;You  sit  down.  Did  you  take  the  milk  of  mag-  nesia?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  yes,  but  I'm  afraid  it  wasn't  enough,&quot;  she  said.  Elizabeth  handed  Hassan  a  platter  of  bacon,  not  looking  at  him.  After  breakfast,  while  Hassan  and  his  mother  were  still  sitting  over  their  tea,  Elizabeth  started  cleaning  the  kitchen.  She  made  quite  a  bit  of  noise.  She  sorted  the  silverware  and  then  went  through  a  tangle  of  utensils,  dis-  carding  bent  spatulas  and  rusty  tongs.  &quot;May  I  help?&quot;  asked  Mrs.  Ardavi.  Elizabeth  shook  her  head.  She  seemed  to  have  these  fits  of  throwing  things  away.  Now  she  was  standing  on  the  counter  to  take  everything  from  the  upper  cabinets-crackers,  cereals,  half-  empty  bottles  of  spices.  On  the  very  top  shelf  was  a  flowered  tin  confection-  er's  box  with  Persian  lettering  on  it,  forgotten  since  the  day  Mrs.  Ardavi  had  brought  it.  &quot;My!&quot;  said  Mrs.  Ardavi.  &quot;Won't  Hilary  be  surprised!&quot;  Elizabeth  pried  the  lid  off.  Out  flew  a  cloud  of  insects,  grayish-brown  with  V-shaped  wings.  They  brushed  past  Elizabeth's  face  and  fluttered  through  her  hair  and  swarmed  toward  the  ceil-  ing,  where  they  dimmed  the  light  fix-  ture.  Elizabeth  flung  the  box  as  far  from  her  as  possible  and  climbed  down  from  the  counter.  &quot;Goodness!&quot;  said  Mrs.  Ardavi.  &quot;Why,  we  have  those  at  " b"home!&quot;  Hassan  lowered  his  teacup.  Mixed  nuts  and  dried  currants  rolled  every  which  way  on  the  floor;  more  inse  cts  swung  toward  the  ceiling.  Elizabeth  sat  on  the  nearest  chair  and  buried  her  head  in  her  hands.  &quot;Eliza-  beth?&quot;  said  Hassan.  But  she  wouldn't  look  at  him.  In  t  he  end  she  simply  rose  and  went  upstairs,  shut  ting  t  he  bedroom  door  with  a  gentle,  definite  clic  k  which  t  hey  heard  all  the  way  down  i  n  the  kitc  h  en  be-  cause  they  were  listening  so  hard.  &quot;Excuse  me,&quot;  Hassa  n  sai  d  to  his  mother.  She  nodded  and  sta  red  into  her  tea.  After  he  was  gone  she  went  t  o  find  Hilary,  and  she  set  her  on  her  knee,  babbling  various  fol  k  rhymes  to  her  while  straining  her  ea  rs  toward  the  silence  overhead.  But  Hilary  squirmed  off  her  lap  and  went  t  o  p  lay  with  a  t  ruck  .  The  n  Hass  an  ca  me  downstairs  again.  He  didn't  say  a  word  about  Elizabeth.  N  the  following  day,  when  Mrs  .  Ardavi's  tooth  was  bette  r,  she  and  Hassan  had  a  little  talk  upstairs  in  **&quot;  Ta,  ues  Ms  I  BV  At  ae  her  room.  They  were  very  polite  with  each  other.  Hassan  asked  his  mother  how  long  they  could  hope  for  her  to  stay.  His  mother  said  she  hadn't  really  thought  about  it.  Hassan  said  that  in  [REDACTED]  it  was  the  custom  to  have  houseguests  for  three  months  only.  After  that  they  moved  to  a  separate  apartment  nearby,  which  he'd  be  glad  to  provide  for  her  as  soon  as  he  could  find  one,  maybe  next  week.  &quot;Ah,  an  apartment,&quot;  said  his  mother,  looking  impressed.  But  she  had  never  lived  alone  a  day  in  her  life,  and  so  after  a  suitable  pause  she  said  that  she  would  hate  to  put  him  to  so  much  expense.  &quot;Especially,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;when  I'm  going  in  such  a  short  time  anyway,  since  I'm  homesick  for  my  sisters.&quot;  &quot;Well,  then,&quot;  said  Hassan.  At  supper  that  night,  Hassan  an-  nounced  that  his  mother  was  missing  her  sisters  and  would  like  to  leave.  Elizabeth  lowered  her  glass.  &quot;Leave?&quot;  she  said.  Mrs.  Ardavi  said,  &quot;And  Babak's  wife,  of  course,  will  be  asking  for  me  when  the  baby  arrives.&quot;  &quot;Well  .  ..  but  what  about  the  den-tist?  You  were  supposed  to  start  your  appointments  on  Monday.&quot;  &quot;It's  not  important,&quot;  Mrs.  Ardavi  said.  &quot;But  we  set  up  all  those-&quot;  &quot;'There  are  plenty  of  dentists  she  can  see  at  home,&quot;  Hassan  told  Eliza-  beth.  &quot;We  have  dentists  in  4972616e,  for  God's  sake.  Do  you  imagine  we're  barbarians?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  Elizabeth  said.  ON  the  evening  of  the  third  of  March,  Hassan  drove  his  mother  to  the  airport.  He  was  worrying  about  the  road,  which  was  slippery  after  a  snowfall.  He  couldn't  find  much  to  say  to  his  mother.  And  once  they  had  ar-  rived  he  deliberately  kept  the  conversa-  tion  to  trivia-the  verifying  of  tickets,  checking  of  departure  times,  weighing  of  baggage.  Her  baggage  was  four-  teen  pounds  overweight.  It  didn't  make  sense;  all  she  had  were  her  clothes  and  a  few  small  gifts  for  her  sisters.  &quot;Why  is  it  so  heavy?&quot;  Hassan  asked.  &quot;What  have  you  got  in  there?&quot;  But  his  mother  only  said,  &quot;I  don't  know,&quot;  and  straight-  ened  her  shawl,  looking  elsewhere.  Hassan  bent  to  open  a  tooled-leather  suitcase.  Inside  he  found  three  empty  urn-shaped  wine  bottles,  the  perma-  nent-press  sheets  from  her  bed,  and  a  sample  box  of  detergent  that  had  come  in  yesterday's  mail.  &quot;Listen,&quot;  said  Has-  san,  &quot;do  you  know  how  much  I'd  have  to  pay  to  fly  these  things  over?  What's  the  matter  with  you?&quot;  &quot;I  wanted  to  show  my  sisters,&quot;  his  mother  said,  &quot;Well,  forget  it.  Now,  what  else  have  you  got?&quot;  But  something  about  her-the  vague,  childlike  eyes  set  upon  some  faraway  object-made  him  give  in.  He  opened  no  more  bags.  He  even  re-  gretted  his  sharpness,  and  when  her  flight  was  announced  he  hugged  her  closely  and  kissed  the  top  of  her  head.  &quot;Go  with  God,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Goodbye,  Hassan.&quot;  She  set  off  down  the  corridor  by  herself,  straggling  behind  a  line  of  businessmen.  'They  all  wore  hats.  His  mother  wore  her  scarf,  and  of  all  the  travellers  she  alone,  securely  kerchiefed  and  shawled,  setting  her  small  shoes  resolutely  on  the  gleaming  tiles,  seemed  undeniably  a  foreigner.  "