 b"ONE  of  the  few  things  all  of  the  Bashmanians  are  agreed  about  is  fire,  which  we  love,  as  we  do  all  things  in  the  fire  family:  the  sun,  all  reds  and  yellows,  [REDACTED]  poppies  and  sunflowers.  No  wonder  the  Armenians  fought  off  the  Persians  when  they  came  with  swords  to  de-  mand  that  we  join  them  in  fire  worship.  Why  should  we  spoil  a  good  thing  by  making  it  official?  We  had  official  Jesus,  and  that  was  wonder  enough.  When  a  building  was  on  fire  in  [REDACTED]  and  the  Fire  Department  came  roaring  up  in  its  red  fire  engines,  we  would  already  be  there,  laughing,  and  rejoicing  in  the  light,  heat,  color,  and  music  of  the  fire  eating  wood  to  ash.  The  greatest  fire  I  ever  witnessed  was  a  comparatively  insignificant  one.  The  thing  that  made  it  great  was  that  it  was  my  house.  I  had  gone  with  my  family  in  1919  to  Armona-about  forty  miles  southwest  of  [REDACTED]  and  three  miles  from  Hanford-where  there  was  good  work  in  the  fresh-fruit  packing  houses,  and  we  shared  a  house  bought  for  his  family  by  my  uncle  Gunyaz  Bashmanian  after  he  suffered  losses  in  three  consecutive  business  en-  terprises.  A  small  grocery  store  on  O  Street  in  [REDACTED]  went  bankrupt  because  of  the  lower  prices  at  the  big  store  that  suddenly  opened  next  door.  Then  an  orchard  of  peach  and  apricot  trees  in  Biola  brought  forth  two  crops  so  meagre  that  the  place  had  to  be  given  back  to  the  bank.  And  finally  this  un-  lucky  man  bought  a  jewelry  store  on  Mariposa  Street  in  [REDACTED],  next  to  D.  Yezdan's  Clothing  Store.  One  night  it  was  emptied  of  everything  by  robbers,  who  were  never  apprehended.  &quot;Robbers?&quot;  Gunyaz  said  when  he  heard  of  the  theft.  &quot;Not  police?&quot;  Gunyaz  put  all  of  his  remaining  money  into  the  buying  of  theold  house  in  Armona,  so  that  he  and  his  wife  and  his  two  sons  could  work  in  the  packing  houses  and  perhaps  save  money  again,  but  his  wife  took  ill,  one  of  his  sons  broke  his  arm,  and  Gunyaz  himself  sprained  his  back  so  badly  that  even  with  a  brace  holding  him  to-  gether  he  could  do  no  more  than  stand  and  walk.  When  he  was  almost  en-  tirely  out  of  money,  with  a  lot  of  doc-  tor's  bills  to  pay,  Gunyaz  took  all  of  his  business  papers  to  a  lawyer  named  Jivelikian  and  asked  him  to  study  them  carefully.  The  following  day  the  law-  yer  said,  &quot;I  have  found  all  of  your  papers  in  order.  You  paid  two  thou-  sand  dollars  cash  for  the  house  and  its  furnishings.  I  know  the  house  well,  as  the  previous  owner  asked  me  to  help  him  sell  it  three  yearsago.  At  best,  the  furnishings,  the  house,  and  the  lot  on  which  it  stands  are  all  to-  gether  worth  one  thousand  dollars.  However,  the  fire-insurance  policy  on  the  house  is  for  six  thousand  dollars,  and  has  a  week  to  go.&quot;  Gunyaz  said,  &quot;The  house  is  old  and  rotten.  I'm  afraid  it  might  catch  fire  some  night  when  all  of  us  are  asleep.&quot;  &quot;'That  is  something  to  avoid  at  all  costs,&quot;&quot;  the  lawyer  said.  &quot;I  can't  stand  guard  every  night,&quot;  Gunyaz  said.  &quot;I  have  a  bad  back  and  many  debts.&quot;  &quot;My  fee  is  one  dollar,&quot;  the  lawyer  said.  Gunyaz  paid  Jivelikian  a  silver  dol-  lar  and  went  home.  As  luck  would  have  it,  everybody  was  either  at  the  packing  house  or  at  the  doctor's,  and  Gunyaz  Bashmanian  was  home  all  alone,  his  head  full  of  sorrow,  anger,  and  fire.  That  night,  when  everybody  was  home  from  work  or  from  the  doctor's,  he  said  to  his  wife,  &quot;Prepare  a  feast.  We  shall  enjoy  our  good  health  and  good  fortune  in  this  world,  under  the  fig  tree  in  the  back  yard.&quot;  The  feast  began  a  little  after  ten,  by  which  time  I  was  more  sleepy  than  hungry.  Nevertheless,  I  kept  myself  awake  enough  to  have  a  little  of  ev-  erything,  and  then  I  began  to  long  for  my  bed,  which  I  shared  with  my  brother  Bakrot  Bashmanian,  called  Buck  for  short.  But  Gunyaz  said,  &quot;No,  you  must  eat  now.  You  are  elev-en  years  old;  it  is  not  time  to  go  into  the  house.&quot;  He  himself  went  into  the  house  by  way  of  the  back  door  and  came  out  by  way  of  the  frontdoor.  He  returned  slowly  to  the  great  table  under  the  fig  tree,  a  very  solemn  and  thoughtful  man.  Now  a  nice  variety  of  flashes  of  light  began  to  come  from  inside  the  house,  but  everybody  was  having  such  a  good  time  eating  and  drinking  and  talking  that  I  decided  that  the  house  was  not  on  fire,  and  that  the  flashes  of  light  were  only  rather  large  flickerings  from  three  kerosene  lamps  there.  Five  minutes  later,  though,  there  was  a  large  and  crackling  light  comingfrom  inside  the  house,  and  I  decided  that  now  the  house  was  on  fire,  and  glad  to  be.  Still,  I  was  better  than  half  asleep  and  thought  I  could  be  dreaming,  so  I  didn't  leap  to  my  feet  and  holler  &quot;Fire!&quot;  When  I  began  to  feel  hot,  however,  I  took  Gunyaz  by  the  arm  and  pointed  to  the  house.  &quot;Wah,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Our  house  is  on  fire.&quot;  My  brother  shouted,  &quot;I'll  go  call  the  Fire  Department,&quot;  and  ran  off  as  fast  as  hecould  go,  barefoot.  &quot;Hurry,&quot;  Gunyaz  shouted  after  him.  &quot;Perhaps  we  can  save  some-  thing.&quot;  Everybody  ran  to  the  empty  lot  next  door,  and  then  across  the  street,  where  we  stood  in  a  religious  group,  crossing  ourselves,  as  we  watched  the  house  being  devoured  by  a  big,  busy  mouth  with  a  ferocious  appetite-after  which  everything  fell  into  the  house,  and  then  the  fire  died.  The  light  went  out,  the  heat  ended,  the  world  grew  philosophic.  The  fire  engines  came.  The  happy  firemen  splattered  water  on  the  smok-  ing  half-skeleton  until  all  that  was  left  was  a  lot  of  wet  black  cinders  where  the  house  had  been.  A  smell  of  bright  living  gave  way  to  a  smell  of  dark  dy-  ing.  I  wanted  to  go  to  sleep.  Even  so,  we  were  all  ofus  up  until  long  after  midnight,  and  then  we  found  places  to  sleep  on  the  floors  of  the  houses  of  vari-  ous  friends  who  were  also  in  Armona  for  the  summer  work.  &quot;How  did  it  start?&quot;  somebody  asked,  and  somebody  else  said,  &quot;From  the  kitchen  stove,  after  cooking.&quot;  It  was  the  most  beautiful,  the  most  intelligent,  the  most  artful,  the  sweet-  est,  and  the  most  philosophic  fire  I  ever  saw.  Even  so,  I  felt  especially  bad  about  losing  the  bed  I  shared  with  my  broth-  er-the  whole  thing  gone  up  forever  in  smoke. "