 b"LOATH  though  I  am  to  bring  The   New  York  Review  of  Books,  The  Times  Literary  Supple-  ment,  and  the  academics  buzzing  down  around  my  ears  like  a  cloud  of  hor-  nets,  I'd  like  to  ask  a  simple  question.  Why  is  it  that  in  the  torrent  of  accla-  mation,  exegesis,  and  criticism  which  has  gushed  forth  during  this  century  about  Proust's  monumental  &quot;Remem-  brance  of  Things  Past&quot;  we  find  not  so  much  as  a  mention  ofthe  Steinberg  theory?  It  may  come  as  a  surprise  to  those  who  regard  him  as  merely  a  gifted  artist  to  learn  that  Mr.  Saul  Steinberg  has  thought  long  and  deeply  about  the  catalytic  agent  of  the  novel.  (I  do  not  refer  to  Gaston  Farblondget,  the  playbroker  who  first  brought  it  to  the  attention  of  Grasset,  the  original  publisher,  but,  rather,  to  the  pastry,  the  madeleine  soaked  in  lime-flower  tea,  that  evoked  the  author's  recollections.)  Nevertheless,  Mr.  Steinberg  has,  and  it  is  his  contention,  iconoclastic  if  you  will,  that  Proust  deliberately  falsified  what  he  had  eaten  as  being  too  plebe-  ian.  In  Steinberg's  judgment-and  he      buttresses  it  with  a  formidable  array  of  interior  evidence  from  the  work-  Proust's  madeleine  was  in  reality  a  matzo  ball,  and  the  past  unfolded  it-  self  to  the  Master  as  he  sat  hunched  over  a  bowl  of  chicken  soup  in  Flam-  baum's,  the  famous  kosher  restaurant  in  [REDACTED].  Absurd,you  say?  Improbable?  Yet  scientific  researchers,  people  like  L.  Ron  Hubbard,  Jeane  Dixon,  and  Wil-  liam  Safire,  who  have  spent  years  studying  the  intricacies  of  the  human  brain,  tell  us  that  one's  own  skein  of  memory  often  starts  unwinding  under  similarly  mundane  circumstances.  Such  was  undeniably  the  case  with  me  sev-  eral  months  ago  in  the  basement  work-  shop  of  a  bootmaker  in  [REDACTED]'s  West  End,  twenty  feet  below  the  surface  of  Cork  Street.  I  had  crawled  down  there  on  a  rainy  afternoon  to  pick  up  some  shoelaces  he  had  rehabilitated  for  me,  and,  as  was  his  habitof  late,  Mr.  Bloodroot  launched  into  a  gloomy  dis-  course  on  the  decline  of  his  calling.  In  the  best  of  times,  Bloodroot  has  never  displayed  atincture  of  optimism,   and  today  his  wrinkled  visage  was  more  doleful  than  a  basset  hound's.  Vanished  forever,  he  declaimed,  were  apprentices  willing  to  school  them-  selves  in  the  discipline  of  shoecraft,  vanished  the  client  with  discernment  and  the  means  to  appreciate  superb  workmanship.  Was  this  subterranean  badger  hole  we  stood  in  an  adequate  reward  for  his  years  of  unremitting  industry?  Apprehensive  lest  the  man  disembowel  himself  with  an  awl  be-  fore  my  eyes,  I  appealed  to  his  armour-  propre.  &quot;But  think  of  the  clientele  you've  had,  [REDACTED];  Iprotested.  &quot;Sir  Winston,  Duff  Cooper,  the  Sitwells-&quot;  &quot;Oh,  aye,  I've  made  for  them  all,&quot;  he  agreed  sombrely.  &quot;And  the  actors,  too.  Olivier,  Gielgud,  and  Redgrave-  the  lot.&quot;  &quot;'Yes,  and  what  about  the  American  film  stars?  I  daresay  you've  known  plenty  of  them,  like  Clark  Gable  and  Douglas  Fairbanks,  Jr.&quot;  From  his  instant  disdain,  I  saw  that  his  pride  had  been  touched.  &quot;Fair-  banks?  He  was  a  nobody  compared  to  some  of  my  customers.  Look  here.&quot;  He  fumbled  out  a  battered  cardcase,  shuf-  fled  the  contents,  and  handed  me  a  creased  and  yellowed  letter.  &quot;You've  heard  of  him,  I  expect.&quot;  I  had  indeed.  Dated  March  14,  1921,  the  note  was  addressed  from  North  Roxbury  Drive,  in  Beverly  Hills.  &quot;Dear  Mr.  Bloodroot,&quot;  it  read.  &quot;I  trust  that  this  finds  you  well.  I  would  like  at  this  time  to  order  another  pair  of  the  patent-leather  shoes  with  gray  cloth  tops,  buttoning  on  the  side,  which  you  supplied  me  in  the  past.  Will  forward  international  money  order  on  receipt.  With  kindest  regards,  Rudolph  Valentino.&quot;  Valentino  the  incomparable-the  immortal  Rudy,  with  his  glittering  snake  eyes  and  hair  ebony  as  the  raven's  wing,  his  feline  grace;  the  image  of  those  shoes  brought  him  surging  across  the  gulf  of  years  as  nothing  else  could.  Dazzled,  I  toiled  back  to  sidewalk  level  from  Bloodroot's  den  and,  over  a  pint  of  Guinness  to  offset  the  bends,  gave  myself  up  to  memories  of  the  Sheik  of  Araby.  Certainly  the  most  vivid,  if  not  the  first,  was  that  of  his  performance  as  a  torero  in  &quot;Blood  and  Sand&quot;  about  1922,  when  hetwirled  across  his  dressing  room  like  a  teetotum  to  gird  himself  in  a  silver  sash  held  by  an  at-  tendant.  His  leading  lady,  of  course,  was  the  divine  Nita  Naldi,  and,  by  a  nice  coincidence,  light  had  been  shed  only  recently  on  the  reason  for  her  choice.  Reporting  on  a  Dublin  film  festival,  David  Robinson,  the  movie  " b"critic  of  the  Times  of  [REDACTED],  told  this  story:  The  exotic  Latin  vamp  of  the  1920s,  Nita  Naldi  was,  it  appears,  reallycalled  Anita  Dooley.  She  first  encountered  the  literary  lion  of  the  day,  Blasco  Ibanez,  at  a  party,  and  asa  good  Irish  Catholic  girl  upbraided  him  roundly  for  his  treat-  ment  of  the  Church.  The  argument  be-  came  so  heated  that  the  great  man's  false  teeth  flew  out  and  straight  down  Miss  Naldi's  corsage  [which,  Mr.  Robinson  unaccountably  neglected  to  add,  was  un-  rivalled  in  the  Western  world  save  by  Aileen  Pringle's].  Without  pausing  for  breath,  Ibanez  plunged  his  hand  into  the  crevasse,  retrieved  his  teeth  and  clapped  them  back  into  his  mouth.  Evidently  the  experience  had  made  an  impression  on  him,  however,  for  he  insisted  that  Miss  Naldi  should  star  opposite  Rudolph  Val-  entino  in  the  film  of  his  novel  &quot;Blood  and  Sand.&quot;  Nita  Naldi,  Wallace  Reid,  Olga  Petrova,  Owen  Moore,  Priscilla  Dean,  Beverly  Bayne,  Dustin  Farnum,  Rose-  mary  Theby,  Valeska  Suratt-a  kalei-  doscope  of  faces  swam  up  from  my  ear-  ly  moviegoing  to  tighten  my  throat  And,  bathed  in  a  flood  of  sweet  melan-  choly  underscored  by  the  throb  of  vio-  lins,  I  was  struck  by  an  awesome  thought:  I  was  probably  the  only  sur-  viving  member  of  the  Rhode  Island  audience  that  witnessed  the  original  screen  version  of  &quot;Anna  Karenina&quot;  in  1916.  This  cinematic  douche,  my  bap-  tism  in  the  medium,  took  place  in  a  malodorous  nickelodeon  in  Providence,  the  seats  of  which  bore  cassettes  that  ejected  Tootsie  Rolls  with  an  explosive  force  like  gunfire.  'The  production  starred  a  Danish  actress  of  surpassing  loveliness  named  Betty  Nansen-unre-  lated  to  the  Arctic  explorer,  except  that  her  beauty  froze  me  in  my  chair.  That  Anna's  romance  with  Count  Vronsky  was  star-crossed  was  apparent  to  me  even  at  the  age  of  twelve,  but  when  she  threw  herself  under  the  wheels  of  the  locomotive  in  the  last  reel,  I  fell  apart.  Blubbering  piteously,  I  stumbled  home-  ward  in  a  mist  of  tears,  and  lay  be-  tween  life  and  death  for  weeks.  Even-  tually,  thanks  to  nourishing  soups  and  the  delicious  humor  of  Octavus  Roy  Cohen  in  The  Saturday  Evening  Post,  I  regained  my  zest  for  life,  but  it  was  a  narrow  squeak.  Figure  to  yourself,  then,  how  spooky  I  felt  when,  several  days  after  my  visit  to  Bloodroot,  there  fell  into  my  hands  at  a  curio  shop  in  St.  Martin's  Lane  a  magazine  for  British  movie  exhibitors  published  in  1913.  By  and  large,  the  trade  gossip  in  The  Cinema  News  &amp;  Property  Gazette,  the  advertisements  for  pipe  organs,  ticket  machines,  and  similar  embellishments  were  nothing to  quicken  the  pulse,  but  the  sugges-  tion  column  did  offer  one  method  of  attracting  summer  patrons  which  was  worthy  of  note:  Theman  with  the  screen  at  oneend  of  a  vacant  lot  and  a  projection  room  at  the  other  [will  be}  in  the  ascendant...  A  rockery  need  not  cost  \xc2\xa32,  and  yet  it  will  be  worth  a  hundred  times  that  in  the  sug-  gestion  of  coolness  that  it  affords.  Tap  the  water  pipe,  and  put  in  a  small  hose  nozzle.  Build  a  concrete  basin.  Even  a  galvanized  washtub  with  an  overflow  pipe  willdo.  Some  Saturday  afternoon  get  in  half  a  dozen  small  boys,  and  promise  them  tickets  for  the  entire  opening  week  if  they  will  gather  up  the  stones  in  the  lot.  They'll  work  like  grownups  if  you  pick  the  right  sortof  boys,  and  by  night  you'll  have  a  finepile  of  stones.  Mask  in  the  basin  and  pipe  with  these,  adjust  the  nozzle  so  that  some  of  the  spray  strikes  the  rocks,  and  you'll  have  a  tiny  fountain  that  will  splash  musically.  How  to  dispose  of  the  pile  of  small  boys  left  over  after  the  opening  week  was  unclear,  but  I  assume  the  stiffs  could  be  paid  off  in  stones  and  the  brighter  ones  used  as  ushers.  Where  the  publication  really  took  wing,  though,  was  in  its  listing  of  films  marketed  by  various  European  and  American  stu-  dios,  synopsized  in  language  even  the  most  beef-witted  exhibitor  could  com-  prehend.  Included  were  some  with  juicy  titles,  like  &quot;The  Blind  Compos-  er's  Dilemma&quot;  (Kalem),  &quot;While  She  Powdered  Her  Nose&quot;  (Vitagraph),  &quot;'The  Newest  Methods  of  Coaling  Battleships  at  Sea&quot;  (Edison),  &quot;Tony's  Revenge,  or  Castor  Oil&quot;  (Elite),  &quot;Cub  Reporter's  Temptation&quot;  (Ka-  lem),  &quot;Oh!  You  Unbreakable  Doll&quot;  (Lux),  and  &quot;Saved  from  the  Grip  of  Alcohol&quot;  (Lux).  Of  the  plots  fur-  nished  in  this  issue,  comedies  were  preponderant;  there  were  few  prob-  lem  dramas,  the  producers  obviously  leaning  toward  boisterous  situations  spiced  with  a  dash  of  sex.  Here,  typical-  ly,  was  a  Selig  Polyscope  film  called  &quot;'The  College  Chaperon,&quot;  whose  in-  genious  twists  were  guaranteed  to  elicit  bofis:  The  annual  college  dance  is  at  hand,  and  the  students  of  the  Conserver  Mili-  tary  Academy  are  making  their  arrange-  ments  for  this  famous  function.  Jack  Carter  and  Ned  Graves  invite  two  out-  of-town  girls  to  be  their  guests  at  the  fes-  tivities.  The  girls,  Maude  and  Alice,  ac-  cept  the  boys'  invitation,  with  the  under-  standing  that  Jack's  Aunt  Nellie  will  act  as  their  chaperon.  It  is  so  arranged,  and  preparations  made  accordingly.  Shortly  before  the  eventful  day,  Jack  is  notified  that  Aunt  Nellie  cannot  be  present.  The  boys  are  much  putout  at  this  bit  of  news,  and  are  about  to  call  the  engagement  off,  when  suddenly  a  bright  idea  occurs  to  them.  They  arrange  with  Sammy  Stone,  the  college  janitor,  to  impersonate  Aunt  Nellie.  Sammy  consents,  and  plays  the  part.  Outside  of  several  embarrassing  situations  that  arise,  the  scheme  works  " b"out  all  right  until  Sammy,  in  his  elab-  orate  ball  gown,  attempts  to  dance  with  one  of  the  professors.  His  identity  is  dis-  covered,  and  he  lands  in  the  guard  house.  Here  the  boys  visit  him,  and  offertheir  condolences  to  &quot;one  of  our  best  little  chaperons.&quot;  Judging  from  the  background  of  two  other  pictures,  &quot;The  Story  of  Lavinia&quot;  (Selig)  and  &quot;Luggage  in  Ad-  vance&quot;  (Barker),  dormitories,  and,  above  all,  female  ones,  pullulated  with  comedy;  both  these  divertissements  featured  clandestine  chafing-dish  par-  ties,  pillow  fights,  male  intruders  con-  cealed  in  laundry  baskets,  and  simi-  lar  low  jinks.  &quot;The  Thief  and  the  Porter's  Head&quot;  (Milano),  however,  classified  as  a  blithesome  comicmelo-  drama,  proved  in  the  end  to  be  a  quite  different  bouillabaisse:  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Jones  are  suddenly  called  away,  and  leave  their  son,  Percy,  alone  in  the  house.  Left  alone,  he  helps  himself  to  his  father's  cigars,  and  reckons  he  is  quite  a  nut,  until,  overcome  by  the  strength  of  the  smoke,  he  lies  down  on  the  sofa.  Meanwhile  a  thief,  seeing  the  departure  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Jones,  breaks  into  the  house  and  frightens  Percy,  who  beats  a  hasty  retreat,  being  chased  from  room  to  room  by  the  thief,  until  at  last  he  is  cornered.  ...  Percy  slings  a  pot  of  paint  after  him  which  alights  on  his  head.  The  thief  pulls  it  off  and  bangs  it  down  over  the  head  of  the  porter,  who  has  rushed  out  to  find  the  cause  of  the  row,  and  de-  camps.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Jones  return  at  this  point,  and  Percy  rushes  down  and  says  he  has  caught  a  thief;  they  catch  hold  of  the  pot  to  pull  it  off,  and  succeed  in  also  pulling  off  the  head  of  the  porter.  The  unfortunate  man  rushes  round  with  his  head,  still  encased  in  the  pot  in  his  hand,  to  the  doctor,  and  the  rest  of  the  party  follow.  The  doctor  succeeds,  by  the  aid  of  electricity,  in  sticking  his  head  on  again,  and  upon  the  pot  being  smashed,  they  dis-  cover  not  the  thief  as  they  expected,  but  the  porter,  and  at  once  proceed  to  inflict  their  wrath  on  Percy.  The  doctor,  getting  sick  of  the  rowdy  crowd,  throws  his  elec-  tric  plug  into  the  mob  and  disperses  them.  Surrealism,  I  had  always  naive-  ly  supposed,  was  fathered  during  the  twenties  by  Max  Ernst,  Ren\xc3\xa9  Magritte,  Pierre  Roy,  and  like  effervescent  spir-  its,  but  revelations  of  headless  porters  in  1913  and  doctors  welding  heads  back  on  with  electricity  are  certain  to  ruffle  the  feathers  of  art  historians.  I  wonder  if  moviegoers  in  that  distant  epoch,  torpidly  gnawing  their  Tootsie  Rolls,  dreamt  they  were  watching  the  birth  of  a  new  art  form.  Or  did  they  accept  weird  fantasies  flickering  across  the  screen  as  part  of  its  incomprehen-  sible  magic?  However  glazed,  their  eyes  must  have  bulged  at  an  Essanay  feature  titled  &quot;Lady  Audley's  Jewels,&quot;  a  succulent  ragout  of  show  biz  and  crime  detection;  Augustus  Pompleton  and  his  wife,  Clarice  Deveraux,  of  the  famous  Mc-  Night's  Celebrated  Repertoire  Company,  are  stranded  in  the  small  village  of  Jay-  ville.  Pompleton,  at  the  suggestion  of  his  wife,  enters  the  railroad  station  and  asks  the  ticket  agent  where  they  can  find  the  nearest  and  cheapest  hotel.  The  star  lead-  ing  lady  of  the  noted  company  dropsher  lavaliere,  made  ofplate  glass  and  paste,  on  the  floor.  The  station  agent  picks  it  up  and  asks  her  how  much  she  will  sell  it  for.  The  lavaliere  is  sold  for  three  dol-  lars.  Jed  Perkins,  a  would-be  sleuth  of  the  town,  receives  a  badge,  belt,  handcuffs  and  the  regular  paraphernalia  usedby  town  constables  from  a  detective  corre-  spondence  school.  A  five  hundred  thousand  dollar  jewel  robbery  adorns  the  front  page  of  a  New  York  newspaper.  Having  secured  enough  money  to  hold  them  over  at  the  hotel  for  a  couple  of  days,  Augus-  tus  Pompleton  and  his  wife  register  and  go  to  their  room,  to  determine  how  to  reach  New  York.  During  the  absence  of  the  porter,  Perkins  volunteers  to  take  some  ice  water  up  to  them.  He  discovers  the  performers  sorting  out  some  stage  jewels.  He  immediately  comes  to  the  con-  clusion  that  these  two  are  the  thieves  wanted  in  New  York  in  connection  with  the  big  robbery.  The  actors  carry  out  the  misunderstanding,  and  are  taken  to  New  York  by  the  correspondence  sleuth.  Hav-  ing  arrived  at  the  police  station,  the  Cap-  tain  discharges  the  couple  and  has  the  would-be  detective  locked  up.  The  one  perplexing  aspect  of  the  story-apart  from  the  puzzle  of  where  the  producer  promoted  the  funds  to  make  it-is  the  identity  of  Lady  Aud-  ley,  who  never  once  surfaces  in  the  summary  of  the  action.  Presumably,  she  is  the  owner  of  the  gems  heisted  in  New  York,  a  detail  whose  conceal-  ment  somebody  evidently  figured  would  add  a  touch  of  mystery  to  the  script.  The  practice  of  withholding  informa-  tion  from  the  audience  still  persists,  by  the  way;  I  frequently  emerge  from  movies  convinced  that  some  vital  in-  " b"gredient  that  would  explain  the  whole  tzrimmes  has  been  deliberately  sup-  pressed.  'The  more  one  samples  the  fare  of-  fered  the  cinemagoer  in  1913,  the  greater  one's  admiration  for  his  ability  to  endure  punishment.  Dazzled  as  he  undoubtedly  was  by  the  witchery  of  the  new  medium,  he  must  have  stag-  gered  under  the  impact  of  some  of  the  lunacies  it  generated,  such  as  those  in  &quot;In  a  Gambler's  Clutches&quot;  (Atlas  Feature  Films).  Its  story  line,  for  want  of  a  better  phrase,  went  as  follows:  Rigo  Seriesky,  a  famous  violinist,  fas-  cinates  Marie,  the  daughter  of  Baron  Schulbert.  He  asks  for  Marie's  hand  in  marriage,  but  the  Baron,  who  has  been  warned  that  Seriesky  is  a  common  ad-  venturer  and  card-sharper,  refuses  his  consent.  Rigo  sends  a  message  to  Marie  by  means  of  her  dog,  asking  her  to  elope  with  him.  This  novel  deputy,  by  the  way,  may  be  the  very  first  appearance  of  that  folkloric  figure  the  talking  dog,  which  inspired  a  host  of  anecdotes  to  come.  But  goon  with  the  narrative:  She  agrees,  and  at  midnight  they  run  away  and  are  secretly  married.  A  year  later  Rigo  forces  Marie  to  accompany  him  to  a  gambling  saloon.  He  makes  her  cheat  by  using  cards  concealed  in  her  handkerchief,  and  the  fraud  being  discov-  ered,  Rigo  is  challenged  to  a  duel  by  one  of  the  gamblers.  During  the  duel  Rigo  is  wounded  in  the  arm,  and  when  the  wound  is  healed  he  finds  to  his  horror  that  his  arm  is  paralyzed  and  useless.  You  spring  to  attention,  foreseeing  that  they  are  about  to  use  the  classic  dreidel  wherein  the  hands  of  an  exe-  cuted  strangler  are  grafted  onto  a  concert  pianist-but  no,  this  was  long  before  the  era  of  Tod  Browning  and  Robert  Siodmak.  Slowly,  relentlessly,  the  story  unwinds  like  some  anaconda  in  the  Amazon  rain  forest:  Ruin  stares  him  in  the  face,  and  Rigo,  in  desperation,  forms  a  dastardly  scheme.  At  the  revolver's  mouth  he  forces  his  wife  to  telephone  to  her  father,  telling  him  that  she  is  ill,  and  imploring  him  to  visit  her.  Without  hesitation  the  Baron  drives  to  Rigo's  house,  where  the  adventurer  shows  him  into  a  room,  saying  he  will  bring  Marie  to  him.  Whilst  the  Baron  is  waiting  Rigo  creeps  up  behind  him  and  binds  him  to  the  chair.  Then  he  prepares  to  set  fire  to  the  house,  telling  his  prison-  er  that  in  a  few  hours  the  place  will  be  in  flames.  Taking  the  Baron's  keys,  the  villain  leavesthe  house,  returning  in  the  waiting  motor,  disguised  as  the  Baron.  It  is  his  intention  to  rob  the  Baron's  safe.  Unknown  to  him,  however,  Schulbert  has  protected  his  property  by  a  new  electrical  contrivance.  Unconscious  of  the  danger  he  runs,  Rigo  approaches  the  safe  and  places  the  key  in  the  lock.  There  is  a  sud-  den  flash,  and  the  schemer  falls  to  the  floor  electrocuted.  What  with  the  Wagnerian  pianolo-  gy  that  accompanied  these  didos  and  the  percussion  of  the  candy  machines,  I  now  readily  understand  the  recur-  rence  of  nightmares  in  my  youth.  Sleeping,  I  relived  all  the  fantasies  at  the  matin\xc3\xa9e  and  I  was  in  constant  flight,  obsessed  by  undefinable  guilt.  Today,  so  many  decades  afterward,  The  Cinema  News  &amp;  Property  Ga-  zette  provides  the  key,  and  I  know  how   the  guilt  originated-from  close  identi-  fication  with  chimeras  like  &quot;Sammy  and  the  Chicken  Run&quot;  (Urbanora)  :  An  extremely  clever  picture,  in  which  Sammy  scores  a  great  triumph.  He,  in  company  with  two  pals,  starts  out  to  steal  their  dinner.  They  entera  poultry  yard,  and  catching  half  a  dozen  fowls,  make  off  with  all  speed.  The  owner,  disturbed  by  the  cackling  of  the  chickens,  soon  dis-  covers  the  theft,  and  informing  the  mayor  of  his  loss,  persuades  that  pompous  gen-  tleman  to  join  in  the  chase.  But  Sammy  and  his  accomplices  are  too  smart  for  their  pursuers,  and  get  away  every  time,  after  allowing  themselves  to  be  nearly  caught,  and  in  the  end  turn  the  tables  neatly  on  the  injured  citizens.  And  yet,  you  know  something?  I've  just  been  struck  by  another  awesome  thought.  That  isn't  such  a  bad  plot  after  all;  you  could  update  it  a  little,  switch  the  locale,  stick  a  name  or  two  in  the  leads,  and  make  yourself  a  bundle.  Just  to  spitball  for  a  second,  say  that  Robert  Redford  and  Paul  Newman  are  a  pair  of  merchant  sea-  men  stranded  in  the  Middle  East,  at  Abu  Dhabi  or  [REDACTED].  They  steal  a  couple  of  chicks  out  of  the  emir's  harem  and  take  off  on  his  yacht  for  [REDACTED].  A  hue  and  cry  in  the  U.N.,  the  Third  World's  on  fire,  and  Kissinger  (Rod  Steiger)  takes  off  after  them  to  avert  a  confrontation.  Do  you  buy  that  so  far?  Right!  ...  Operator!  In  Bev-  erly  Hills,  please,  the  phone  number  for  a  catalytic  agent  on  [REDACTED]  Beverly  Drive  by  the  name  of  Irving  Lazar.  Yes,  thank  you,  I'll  wait. "