 b"HAS  the  crunch  finally  come?  It  looks  like  it.  Earlier  short-  ages-energy,  sugar,  copper  pennies,  beluga  caviar-were  minor  in-  conveniences  compared  to  this  one.  Is  it  just  temporary?  Far  from  it.  To  put  it  bluntly,  the  eraof  unlimited  rocks  for  everyone  is  over.  W  hy  now?  You  can  only  rape  the  ecosystem  for  so  long  before  it  takes  revenge.  Just  a  few  years  ago  most  Americans  were  digging  rocks  out  of  their  lawns  and  gardens  and  throwing  them  away.  There  was  a  feeling  that  the  supply  of  rocks  was  endless.  Didn't  anyone  see  what  was  happen-  ing?  Malthus  warned  that  while  the  food  supply  increases  arithmetically,  popula-  tion  increases  geometri-  cally,  But  even  Malthus  (who  had  a  one-track  mind)  failed  to  note  that  the  supply  of  rocks  does  not  increase  at  all!  In  fact,  the  great  majority  of  rocks  in  existence  today  were  formed  billions  of  years  ago,  and  have  been  wearing  out  &quot;geometrical-  ly&quot;  ever  since.  W  hat  does  mean  to  me?  Less  and  less  rock  to  go  around.  In  1876,  there  were  11  million  tons  of  rock  for  every  man,  wom-  an,  and  child  on  earth.  Today  the  figure  is  6.5  million,  and  it  is  still  drop-  ping.  all  this  How  important  rocks,  anyway?  That's  like  asking  how  important  is  air?  Or  wa-  ter?  'The  ecosystem  is  a  fragile  interface  of  dis-  parate  elements.  Accord-  ing  to  one  estimate,  if  all  the  rocks  were  suddenly  removed  from  our  planet  are  by  a  giant  vacuum  cleaner,  nine  out  of  ten  people  would  fall  into  large  holes  and  probably  sprain  one  or  both  ankles.  Can  modern  technology  help?  Perhaps-but  that's  a  big  perhaps.  Scientists  have  found  a  way  to  manu-  facture  synthetic  rocks  that  cannot  be  distinguished  from  the  real  thing  unless  you  stand  up  very  close.  But  this  breakthrough  is  still  in  the  pilot  stage.  The  raw  material  that  goes  in-  to  synthetic  rocks  is  premium  gaso-  line,  and  in  the  present  &quot;state  of  the  art&quot;  it  takes  roughly  12,000  kilo-  watts  of  electricity  to  convert  one  large  barrel  of  gasoline  into  a  rock  about  six  inches  in  diameter.  'This  makes  the  whole  thing  economically  unfeasi-  ble.  To  bring  costs  down,  scientists  have  tried  using  regular  gasoline,  but  this  produced  a  softer  rock,  with  a   consistency  that  one  researcher  com-  pared  to  an  &quot;oily  mud  pie.&quot;  Another  possible  approach  is  to  improve  the  gas-  to-rock  ratio  by  turning  out  smaller  rocks.  Unfortunately,  these  look  silly  to  some  people.  For  no  good  reason,  the  same  people  who  get  ecologically  aroused  about  big  rocks  go  into  giggling  fits  when  the  subject  of  pebbles  comes  up.  W  hat  can  I  do  to  help?  Stop  wasting  rocks.  One  excellent  first  step  is  to  gather  together  all  your  used  or  worn  rocks  and  washthem  in  a  solution  of  one  part  water  and  one  part  soap.  Then  dry  your  rocks  with  a  soft  towel,  wrap  them  neatly,  and  mail  them  (before  8  a.m.  or  after  10  P.M.)  to  the  less  fortunate  children  of  the  Maldive  [REDACTED],  some  of  whom  have  never  seen  a  rock.  Is  there  anyhope  for  the  future?  No.  "