 b"LYING  on  the  floor  of  the  veranda,  in  the  dark,  he  considered  the  fact  that  he  had  never  in  his  life  been  so  far  off  the  ground.  He  had  known  it  would  be  so  today,  but  he  had  not  thought  about  it  in  words.  The  fourth  floor.  At  each  floor,  on  the  way  up,  he  had  seen  a  double  door  without  a  handle.  It  looked  like  a  sliding  lid.  Each  double  door  had  a  sign  over  it  saying  &quot;Elevator,&quot;  and  on  the  door  there  was  an  orange  paper  pasted,  with  the  words  &quot;Out  of  Order&quot;  printed  by  hand.  He  had  seen  all  that  in  the  day-  light,  in  the  early  afternoon,  as  he  had  climbed.  He  had  wondered  what  time  to  come.  The  professor's  note  from  the  capital  had  said  simply  to  come  on  the  ninth.  Why  don't  you  come  on  the  ninth,  Why  don't  you  come  on  the  ninth,  that  was  all  it  said,  and  he  had  tried  to  extract  more  information,  just  from  the  wording,  but  without  success.  It  was  written  on  university  stationery.  He  had  never  been  to  the  city,  but  now  was  the  time.  He  knew  the  day  but  not  the  hour.  So  he  planned  to  arrive  in  the  morning.  He  took  the  night  train,  which  got  you  into  the  city  in  the  early  hours  when  the  sky  was  just  growing  light  and  the  carts  and  trucks  were  rolling  through  the  outskirts,  converging  on  the  marketplace,  the  wet  stones,  the  waiting  cats.  He  could  see  the  cats  in  the  first  gray  light  as  the  train  entered  the  station,  where  everybody  got  off  and  became  a  crowd,  hurrying  def-  initely,  mingling  with  other  hurrying  streams  of  people.  Inside  the  station  they  began  to  swirl  and  go  off  indiffer-  ent  directions,  and  the  current  dissi-  pated  itself,  died  out  at  counters  where  tickets,  food,  or  magazines  were  for  sale.  The  sound  of  feet  everywhere.  The  people  standing  in  backwaters  were  closed  in  on  themselves,  busy  with  tick-ets,  or  else  eating,  or  counting  money,  not  looking  at  him  drifting  among  them.  He  asked  a  small  old  man  ina  dark  suit  the  way  to  the  university,  but  the  old  man  stared  at  him  and  did  not  answer.  He  asked  a  heavy  man  in  a  cap  with  a  polished  black  visor,  who  said,  &quot;Out  there,&quot;  and  pointed.  He  went  out  through  the  door  the  man  had  pointed  to.  The  noise  ofthe  city  struck  him  in  waves.  He  asked  a  woman  selling  fruit,  who  told  him  what  street  to  follow.  She  said  it  was  a  long  way.  It  was  a  few  miles,  through  the  sound  of  traffic.  But  the  day  was  Satur-  day,  and  almost  no  one  was  at  the  uni-  versity.  The  doors  seemed  to  be  locked,  A  young  man  with  a  bicycle  told  him  how  to  find  the  architecture  build-  ing.  The  glass  doors  at  the  front  would  not  open,  and  no  one  came  when  he  knocked,  but  a  smaller  door  on  the  side  opened  when  he  pulled  it,  and  he  went  in  and  walked  along  the  marble  hallsuntil  a  man  in  a  uniform  appeared  around  a  corner  and  asked  what  he  wanted.,  When  he  said  he  wanted  to  see  the  professor,  the  man  was  unwelcoming.  Said  that  it  was  not  possible  to  see  the  professor.  The  professor  wasn't  there.  The  young  man  asked  him  if  he  knew  the  professor,  and  the  man  said  of  course  he  did.  &quot;I  am  the  superin-  tendent  of  the  building,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;To-  day's  Saturday.&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  the  young  man  said.  &quot;And  anyway  you  need  an  appoint-  ment,&quot;  the  man  said.  &quot;Not  just  any-  body  can  walk  in.&quot;  He  stepped  forward  and  took  the  young  man  by  the  arm,  The  young  man  said  that  the  pro-  fessor  had  told  him  to  come.  &quot;What  for?&quot;  &quot;'To  see  him.&quot;  &quot;What  about?&quot;  &quot;I  wrote  him  a  letter.&quot;  &quot;You  can't  just  go  walking  through  the  building,&quot;  the  superintendent  said,  and  began  to  turn  him  around.  &quot;He  told  me  to  come,&quot;  the  young  man  repeated.  &quot;Not  today,&quot;  the  superintendent  said.  &quot;Yes,  today,&quot;  the  young  man  said.  &quot;'The  ninth.&quot;  &quot;Didn't  you  hear  me,  today's  Satur-  day.  He  isn't  here,&quot;  the  superintendent  said,  growing  taller  as  he  said  it,  and  pleased.  The  young  man  dug  the  letter  out  of  an  inside  pocket  and  said,  &quot;Look.  'Why  don't  you  come  on  the  ninth.'&quot;  He  read  the  words  out  distinctly,  point-  ing  at  each  one  with  his  finger.  Then  there  was  a  pause.     " b"&quot;'That's  different,&quot;  the  superintend-  ent  said.  He  passed  his  fingers  over  his  head  as  though  he  had  just  lifted  ahat  off,  and  said,  &quot;That's  for  the  party,  of  course.&quot;  He  patted  the  young  man  on  the  shoulder.  &quot;But  that's  not  here.&quot;  &quot;Where  is  it?&quot;  &quot;It's  not  now,  either.  It's  later  on.&quot;  &quot;Where  will  it  be?&quot;  &quot;Some  of  the  students  are  giving  it.&quot;  &quot;Where?&quot;  &quot;You'd  never  find  them,&quot;  the  super-  intendent  said.  &quot;I  know  they  have  a  number  of  things  planned.  But  they're  all  for  later  on.&quot;  &quot;But  where?&quot;  &quot;They  were  going  back  to  his  place  afterward.  The  way  they  always  do,&quot;  the  superintendent  said,  glad  to  show  he  knew  it.  &quot;I'll  go  there,  then,&quot;  the  young  man  said.  &quot;Not  now,&quot;  the  superintendent  said.  &quot;When?&quot;  &quot;I'll  call  up  his  apartment  house,&quot;  the  superintendent  said.  &quot;Wait  here.&quot;  He  left  the  young  man  and  went  off  down  the  hall.  When  he  came  back,  he  said  that  in  the  professor's  building  they  did  not  know  the  professor's  plans.  &quot;Can't  you  telephone  to  him?&quot;  the  young  man  asked.  &quot;No,  no.  Can't  do  that.  But  I  know  you  can't  go  in  the  morning.  I  know  that.&quot;  The  superintendent  told  the  young  man  the  address  and  how  to  get  there,  in  exchange  for  a  promise  not  to  go  un-  til  the  afternoon.  He  did  not  say  what  time  in  the  afternoon,  and  the  young  man  thought  about  it  as  he  went.  The  streets  grew  quieter.  The  address  was  in  a  neighborhood  of  high  buildings  all  of  which  the  pro-  fessor  and  his  students  had  designed,  so  the  superintendent  had  told  him.  There  were  courtyards,  with  flower  beds  enclosed  by  low  walls.  It  was  a  sunny  afternoon.  The  young  man  felt  too  warm  in  his  long  gray  overcoat,  which  never  was  warm  enough  when  he  wore  it  on  Sundays,  at  home  in  the  country.  He  found  the  entry.  He  wait-  ed  until  he  heard  two  o'clock  strike,  and  then  he  rang  the  downstairs  bell,  but  nothing  happened.  He  opened  the  door  and  went  to  the  elevator,  read  the  orange  paper,  and  started  to  climb  the  stairs,  Each  flight  led  to  a  wide,  long  veranda  overlooking  a  courtyard.  An  apartment  door  opened  off  each  veranda.  Benches,  ivy  gardens  fur-  nished  the  verandas,  and  flowers  were  planted  along  the  balustrades.  Quiet.  People  walking  on  verandas  across  the  courtyard  flickered  through  shadows. He  heard  their  footsteps  but  they  said  nothing.  After  he  had  climbed  three  flights  he  came  to  the  door,  the  right  number.  He  rang  the  bell  there,  and  heard  it  ring  inside,  but  nobody  an-  swered.  He  went  to  a  bench,  and  sat  down  to  wait.  He  felt  hungry.  He  had  been  feeling  hungry  for  a  while,  but  it  had  seemed  important  to  come  to  the  apartment  be-  fore  he  ate.  He  had  had  no  breakfast,  and  he  was  used  to  eating  the  main  meal  of  the  day  at  noon.  When  he  had  waited  for  several  hours,  getting  up  occasionally  to  look  into  the  courtyard,  he  walked  back  down  the  stairs  and  be-  gan  to  look  among  thebuildings  for  somewhere  to  eat.  The  only  place  he  found  with  a  restaurant  sign  was  al-  ready  closed.  Too  late  for  the  midday  meal,  too  early  for  the  evening  meal.  He  walked  around  the  group  of  build-  ings.  There  were  new  shops,  looking  as  though  they  had  not  yet  sold  any-  thing.  He  went  back  up  to  the  fourth  floor  veranda.  He  had  slept  badly  on  the  train,  sit-  ting  up  all  night,  and  now  he  felt  tired.  He  wanted  to  lie  on  the  bench  and  sleep.  But  that  would  be  taking  liber-  ties,  he  thought.  He  had  not  even  met  the  professor  yet.  He  sat  on  the  floor,  in  his  overcoat,  and  leaned  against  the  bench,  After  a  while  he  lay  down.  In  the  summer  at  home,  heused  to  lie  in  the  hay  in  the  afternoon  and  read  pop-  ular-science  magazines  until  he  fell  asleep,  if  he  was  working  alone  on  a  job,  as  was  often  the  case  during  the  years  he  had  been  a  roofer's  assistant.  That  was  before  he  had  taken  over  the  farm,  which  was  already  behind  in  its  taxes  and  barely  fed  them,  the  way  things  had  got.  Even  as  recently  as  his  own  childhood,  things  had  been  differ-  ent,  Cleaner,  brighter,  better  off.  And  yet  even  these  dayshe  would  go  fish-  ing-wet  flies  in  the  daytime,  and  at  night  poaching  in  the  dark,  shallow,  fast-running  river,  setting  nets  too  small  to  be  legal,  at  the  edges  of  backwaters,  in  the  parts  ofthe  current  he  had  known  all  his  life.  He  could  sell  the  catch  in  the  hotels.  He  worked  without  a  light,  because  of  the  police.  They  all  knew  him,  though  they  came  from  oth-  er  parts  of  the  country.  They  got  to  know  everybody  along  the  river.  If  they  caught  him  on  the  bank,  or  outside  his  barn,  with  the  nets  and  fish,  they  would  ask  him  to  open  the  nets,  and  when  they  found  the  fish  below  legal  size  they  would  fine  him.  Depending  on  who  was  on  duty  and  how  heavy  the  catch  was,  they  might  fine  him  more,  or  less.  Sometimes  nothing.  If  there  was  a  new  man  or  they  had  been  told  to  crack  down,  they  might  fine  him  for  possessing  a  net  too  fine  to  be  legal.  Once,  they  had  confiscated  a  net,  but  it  was  an  old  one  and  he  had  managed  to  buy  it  back  later,  very  cheap,  through  a  friend.  They  never  looked  into  the  rusted  metal  barn.  If  he  could  once  get  the  nets  in  there,  he  couldstand  there  in  the  dark  and  listen  to  the  voices  in  the  kitchen,  where  his  mother  would  be  pouring  drinks  for  them,  and  watch  through  the  murky  window,  hearing  the  fish  flipping  their  tails  in  the  trick-     " b"ling  net  behind  him.  Until  they  left.  And  then  he  would  get  a  light  and  shade  it,  and  start  taking  the  fish  out  of  the  net.  He  read  about  fish  in  the  magazines.  He  thought  about  their  lives,  'There  was  an  article  about  their  hearing.  He  read  it  many  times.  The  author  said  that  fish  heard  with  their  whole  bodies.  Their  element  conveyed  a  continuous  message  to  them.  Their  bodies  were  shaped  like  sound  waves.  All  waves  were  echoes  of  each  other:  waves  in  the  sea,  and  in  the  air;  sound  waves,  brain  waves.  He  looked  at  a  leaf,  one  day,  and  considered  its  spine,  like  that  of  a  fish,  and  he  thought  of  how  the  whole  leaf  vibrated  in  the  wind.  Each  leaf  must  turn  the  waves  of  the  air  into  a  kind  of  sound,  though  he  could  not  hear  it,  any  more  thanhe  could  hear  what  the  fish  heard  in  the  water.  The  author  of  the  article  referred  to  the  element  in  which  human  beings  spent  their  lives-what-  ever  it  might  be  called.  The  young  man  had  wondered  why  we  did  not  hear  our  element,  whatever  it  was,  with  our  whole  bodies.  He  felt  certain  that  the  shapes  of  fish  were  very  important  in  understanding  the  whole  matter.  He  built  aboat  shaped  like  a  fish,  with  ribs  laid  like  fish  spines,  and  he  lay  in  it  listening  to  the  current.  If  you  could  live  that  way,  he  decided.  If  you  could  keep  those  shapes  around  you  all  the  time,  maybe  you  would  begin  to  be  able  to  recognize  the  sound  of  the  element  in  which  you  were  living  pass-  ing  through  you.  He  made  drawings  of  buildings  with  spines  like  fish  spines,  and  curved  walls  and  windows  like  scales.  He  used  photographs  from  the  magazines  of  groups  of  buildings  in  cities,  and  he  drew  picturesof  them  shaped  like  fish,  schools  of  fish.  But  I  have  to  be  practical,  he  said  to  himself.  What  use  would  it  be,  they  will  ask.  Hospitals  and  schools  forthe  deaf-start  with  the  kind  of  hearing  that  everyone  agrees  about.  'Then  Centers  forthe  Deaf,  shaped  like  fish.  His  designs  grew  more  elaborate.  He  saw  an  article  about  a  famous  architect  living  in  the  capital,  teaching  at  the  university,  a  professor  who  spoke  of  using  in  his  buildings  the  shapes  found  in  nature.  There  were  pictures  of  important  buildings  that  exemplified  the  architect's  theories,  and  beside  them  drawings  and  photographs  of  natural  objects  whose  shapes  he  had  adapted:  shells,  grains  in  sections  of  wood,  nests.  His  latest  building,  as  it  happened,  had  been  an  aquarium  into  which  he  had  built  shapes  of  waves  from  different  sources.  The  young  man  had  decided to  write  to  the  professor  about  his  the-  ory  concerning  the  importance  of  the  fish  shape,  and  his  idea  for  Centers  for  the  Deaf.  He  had  sent  a  few  drawings,  to  make  certain  things  clear.  Why  the  buildings  were  arranged  as  they  were,  in  relation  to  each  other,  in  a  current.  &quot;Dear  Sir,&quot;  he  began  his  letter,  but  the  title  on  the  envelope,  of  course,  was  &quot;Professor.&quot;  HE  young  man  had  thought  he  would  fall  asleep,  but  he  had  lain  there,  thinking  about  his  plans,  wide  awake.  Maybe  the  restaurant  would  be  open  now,  he  thought  finally,  and  it  came  to  him  for  the  first  time,  like  the  recollection  of  something  funny,  that  he  was  farther  above  the  ground  than  he  had  ever  been.  He  had  known  from  the  article  that  the  professor  lived  in  a  tall  building  like  this,  which  he  had  de-  signed  himself.  The  young  man  tried  to  see  what  kind  of  natural  form  was  echoed  in  the  shapes  of  the  balustrades,  but  he  could  not  recognize  anything.  The  professor  had  said  that  mathemat-  ics,  too,  was  an  expression  of  nature,  and  perhaps  the  tiers  of  shadowy  veran-  das  were  mathematically  harmonious.  The  young  man  made  his  way  back  to  therestaurant.  Lights  were  on  now,  inside.  It  was  later  than  he  had  sup-  posed.  It  was  hard  to  tell  how  a  day  was  passing,  in  a  city.  He  went  in.  There  was  a  counter  to  sit  at.  No  one  else  was  sitting  in  the  restaurant.  He  imagined  the  buildings  around  him  shaped  like  fish,  in  the  gathering  dusk.  A  woman  came  from  another  room  and  gave  him  a  menu,  in  silence,  and  he  ordered  a  fish  to  eat,  to  see  what  it  would  be  like  here.  It  was  all  right.  The  woman  who  served  him  left  the  radio  on  in  the  next  room  and  stayed  in  there,  but  she  came  back  as  he  was  finishing,  and  he  paid  her  and  went  out  into  the  lighted  spaces  curving     " b"around  the  new  buildings,  and  up  to  the  veranda.  One  small  light  was  burn-  ing  by  the  door.  He  lay  down  again,  beside  the  bench.  He  began  to  think  about  his  letter-  whether  he  had  made  it  sound  clear  and  correct,  what  impression  it  had  made.  He  had  heard  nothing  for  sev-  eral  weeks,  but  he  had  seen  in  a  paper  that  the  professor  had  been  away  for  the  opening  of  abuilding  in  another  country.  But  one  day  the  note  came  saying  &quot;Why  don't  you  come  on  the  ninth.&quot;  The  young  man  had  imagined  many  kinds  of  meetings,  and  he  lay  and  worried  in  the  dark,  thinking,  Why  should  I  worry?  Then  he  heard  them  coming,  a  group,  on  the  stairs  Young  men,  young  women,  laughing  and  talking.  He  remembered  where  he  was.  A  big  dog  came  running  up  to  him,  and  sniffed  him  all  over,  lying  there  by  the  bench.  Didn't  even  bark  at  him.  Wagged  his  tail  and  went  to  the  door.  And  the  people  he  had  heard  on  the  stairs  began  to  spill  onto  the  veranda,  and  along  to  the  door,  without  even  noticing  the  young  man,  at  first.  When  they  did,  they  looked  startled,  and  stared  at  him.  Not  one  was  wearing  an  overcoat.  Shirts,  blouses.  Some  carrying  jackets.  He  recognized  the  professor  from  pictures.  But  taller  thanhe  had  imagined.  The  professor  did  not  look  as  old  as  he  must  be,  talking  fast  with  all  the  young  people,  who  must  be  the  students  the  superintendent  had  spoken  about.  The  young  man  stepped  for- ward  and  told  the  professor  who  he  was,  his  name.  The  professor  looked  as  though  he  had  forgotten.  The  young  man  said  his  name  again.  &quot;Oh  yes,&quot;  the  professor  said,  with  no  sound  of  recognition  in  his  voice.  &quot;You  said  why  didn't  I  come  on  the  ninth.&quot;  &quot;You-  Oh,  are  you  the-the  fish  shapes?&quot;  The  young  man  nodded.  &quot;Come  in.  Come  in.  Too  bad  you  weren't  with  us  earlier.  Have  you  been  waiting  long?&quot;  The  professor  had  his  key  ready,  and  opened  the  door  without  waiting  for  an  answer.  The  students  moved  into  the  apartment  as  though  they  were  coming  home.  They  turned  on  the  lights,  established  themselves  here  and  there  on  the  furniture,  went  on  in-  to  other  rooms,  picked  up  half-empty  wine  bottles,  found  glasses;  one  opened  a  guitar  case  and  took  out  a  guitar.  &quot;Let's  see  what  we  can  find,&quot;  the  professor  said,  turning  to  his  new  guest.  &quot;Have  you  eaten?&quot;  The  young  man  nodded.  &quot;Something  to  drink,&quot;  the  professor  said,  and  held  up  his  hand  as  he  walked  toward  the  door  that  probably  led  to  the  kitchen.  &quot;This  is  the  young  man  with  the  fish  designs,&quot;  he  said,  and  left  the  room.  The  dog,  lying  on  a  sofa,  watched  him  go  out  and  got  upand  followed  him.  The  students  all  looked  at  the  young  man,  but  nobody  spoke.  The  walls  of  the  apartment  were  of  brick  painted  white.  There  was  a  large  fireplace,  wide  and  deep,  raised  above  the  floor.  One  student,  who  was  lighting  a  fire,  had  turned  to  look  at  him,  like  the  others.  A  big  painting  over  the  fire-  place.  The  young  man  tried  to  see  what  it  was  a  picture  of.  He  felt  it  was  much  too  warm  in  the  room,  which  had  been  closed  all  day.  He  missed  the  air  of  the  veranda.  He  was  sure  he  would  not  know  the  answer  when  the  profes-  sor  came  back  with  glasses  and  a  ques-  tion.  Where  and  when  would  they  have  a  chance  to  talk,  he  wondered,  He  felt  certain  that  he  would  find  nothing  to  say  and  would  pass  out  after  a  few  drinks,  buthe  stood  waiting.  Some  of  the  students  were  talking  to  each  other  again.  He  stood  looking  at  the  picture,  and  at  the  walls  with  lights  shining  onto  them,  and  the  large  windows  in  which  the  lighted  windows  of  other  buildings  could  be  seen.  He  imagined  himself  as  the  professor,  and  at  once  it  seemed  to  him  that  he  could  not  hear  anyone  in  the  room. "