 b"SURE  I  stole.  Why  not?  Where  I grew  up,  you  had  to  steal  to  eat.  Then  you  had  to  steal  to  tip.  Lots  of  guys  stole  fifteen  per  cent,  but  I  always  stole  twenty,  which  made  me  a  big  favorite  among  thewaiters.  On  the  way  home  from  a  heist,  I'd  steal  some  pajamas  to  sleep  in.  Or  ifit  was  a  hot  night,  I'd  steal  underwear.  It  was  a  way  of  life.  I  had  a  bad  upbring-  ing,  you  might  say.  My  dad  was  always  on  the  run  from  the  cops  and  I  never  saw  him  out  of  disguise  till  I  was  twen-  ty-two.  For  years,  I  thought  he  was  a  short,  bearded  man  with  dark  glasses  and  a  limp;  actually,  he  was  tall  and  blond  and  resembled  Lindbergh.  He  was  a  professional  bank  robber,  but  sixty-five  was  the  mandatory  retire-  ment  age,  so  he  had  to  get  out.  Spent  his  last  few  years  in  mail  fraud,  but  the  postal  rates  went  up  and  he  lost  everything.  Mom  was  wanted,  too.  Of  course  in  those  days  it  wasn't  the  way  it  is  now,  with  wom-  en  demanding  equal  rights,  and  all.  Back  then,  if  a  woman  turned  to  crime  the  only  op-  portunities  open  to  her  were  blackmail  and,  once  in  a  while,  arson.  Women  were  used  in  [REDACTED]  to  drive  getaway  cars,  but  only  during  the  drivers'  strike,  in  1926.  Terrible  strike.  It  lasted  eight  weeks,  and  whenever  a  gang  pulled  a  job  and  ran  out  with  the  money  they  were  forced  to  walk  or  take  a  cab.  I  had  a  sister  andtwo  brothers.  Jenny  married  mon-  ey.  Not  an  actual  human  be-  ing-it  was  a  pile  of  singles.  My  brother  Vic  got  in  with  a  gang  of  plagiarists.  He  was  in  the  middle  of  signing  his  name  to  &quot;The  Waste  Land&quot;  when  the  feds  surrounded  the  house.  He  got  ten  years.  Some  rich  kid  from  a  highfalutin  family  who  signed  Pound's  &quot;Cantos&quot;  got  off  on  proba-  tion.  That's  the  law  for  you.  Charlie-that's  my  youngest  brother-he's  been  a  numbers  runner,  a  fence,  and  a  loan  shark.  Never  could  find  him-  self.  Eventually  he  was  arrest-  ed  for  loitering.  He  loitered   for  seven  years,  till  he  realized  it  was  not  the  kind  of  crime  that  brought  in  any  money.  The  first  thing  I  ever  stole  was  a  loafof  bread.  I  was  working  for  Rif-  kin's  Bakery,  where  my  job  was  to  remove  the  jelly  from  doughnuts  that  had  gone  stale  and  transfer  it  to  fresh  goods.  It  was  very  exacting  work,  done  with  a  rubber  tube  and  a  scalpel.  If  your  hands  shook,  the  jelly  went  on  the  floor  and  old  man  Rifkin  would  pull  your  hair.  Arnold  Rothstein,  who  we  all  looked  up  to,  came  in  one  day  and  said  he  wanted  to  get  his  hands  on  a  loaf  of  bread  but  he  absolutely  re-  fused  to  pay  for  it.  He  hinted  that  this  was  a  chance  for  some  smart  kid  to  get  into  the  rackets.  I  took  that  as  a  cue,  and  each  day  when  I  left  I  put  one  slice  of  rye  under  my  coat,  until  after  three  weeks  I  had  accumulated  a  whole  loaf.  On  the  way  to  Rothstein's  office,  I  began  to  feel  remorse,  because  even  though  I  hated  Rifkin  his  wife  had  once  let  me  take  home  two  seeds  from  a  roll  when  my  uncle  was  dying.  I  tried  to  return  the  bread,  but  I  got  caught  while  I  was  trying  to  figure  out  which  loaf  each  slice  belonged  to.  The  next  thing  I  knew,  I  was  in  Elmira  Reformatory.  Elmira  was  a  tough  joint.  I  escaped  five  times.  Once  Itried  to  sneak  out  in  the  back  of  a  laundry  truck.  The  guards  got  suspicious,  and  one  of  them  poked  me  with  his  stick  and  asked  me  what  the  hell  I  was  doing  lying  around  in  a  hamper.  I  looked  him  right  in  the  eye  and  said,  &quot;I'm  some  shirts.&quot;  I  could  tell  he  was  dubious.  He  keptpac-  ing  back  and  forth  and  staring  at  me.  I  guess  I  got  a  little  panicky.  &quot;I'm  some  shirts,&quot;  I  told  him.  &quot;Some  denim  work  shirts-blue  ones.&quot;  Before  I  could  say  another  word,  my  arms  and  legs  were  manacled  and  I  was  back  in  stir.  I  learned  everything  I  knew  about  crime  at  Elmira:  how  to  pick  pockets, " b"how  to  crack  a  safe,  how  to  cut  glass-  all  the  fine  points  of  the  trade.  For  in-  stance,  I  learned  (and  not  even  all  pro-  fessional  criminals  know  this)  that  in  the  event  of  a  shootout  with  the  cops,  the  copsare  always  allowed  the  first  two  shots.  It's  just  the  way  it's  done.  Then  you  return  fire,  And  if  a  cop  says,  &quot;We  have  the  house  surrounded,  come  outwith  your  hands  up,&quot;  you  don't  just  shoot  wildly.  You  say,  &quot;Pd  prefer  not  to,&quot;  or&quot;I'd  rather  not  at  this  particular  time.&quot;  'There's  a  right  way  to  do  these  things,  buttoday  ...  Well,  why  go  into  all  that?  OR  the  next  few  years  of  my  life  I  was  the  best  damn  burglar  you  ever  saw.  People  talk  about  Raffles,  but  Raf-  files  had  his  style  and  I  had  mine.  I  had  lunch  with  Raffies'  son  once.  [REDACTED]  guy.  We  ate  at  theold  Lindy's.  He  stole  the  pepper  mill.  I  stole  the  silverware  and  napkins.  Then  he  took  the  ketchup  bottle.  I  took  his  hat.  He  got  my  um-  brella  and  tiepin.  When  we  left  we  kidnapped  a  waiter.  It  was  quite  a  haul.  The  original  Raffles  began  as  a  cat  burglar.  (I  couldn't  do  that,  because  the  whiskers  make  me  sneeze.)  He'd  dress  up  in  this  beat-up  cat  suit  and  dart  over  rooftops.  In  the  end,  he  was  caught  by  two  guys  from  [REDACTED]  Yard  dressed  as  dogs.  I  suppose  you've  heard  of  the  Kissing  Bandit?  He'd  break  into  a  joint  and  rob  the  victim,  and  if  it  was  a  woman  he'd  kiss  her.  It  was  sad  the  way  the  law  finally  nailed  him.  He  had  two  old  dowagers  tied  up  and  he  was  prancing  in  front  of  them  singing  &quot;Gimme  a  Little  Kiss,  Will  Ya,  Huh?&quot;  when  he  slipped  on  a  footstool  and  fractured  his  pelvis.  Those  boys  made  all  the  headlines,  but  I  pulled  off  some  capers  that  the  police  never  did  figure  out.  Once,  I  entered  a  mansion,  blew  the  safe,  and  removed  six  thousand  dollars  while  a   couple  slept  in  the  same  room.  The  husband  woke  up  when  the  dynamite  went  off,  but  when  I  assured  him  that  the  entire  proceeds  would  go  to  the  Boys'  Clubs  of  [REDACTED]  he  went  back  to  sleep.  Cleverly,  I  left  behind  some  fingerprints  of  Franklin  D.  Roose-  velt,  who  was  President  then.  Another  time,  at  a  big  diplomatic  cocktail  par-  ty,  I  stole  a  woman's  diamond  neck-  lace  while  we  were  shaking  hands.  Used  a  vacuum  cleaner  on  her-an  old  Hoover.  Got  her  necklace  and  ear-  rings.  Later,  when  I  opened  the  bag  I  found  some  false  teeth  there,  which  belonged  to  the  Dutch  Ambassador.  My  most  beautiful  job,  though,  was  when  I  broke  into  the  British  Museum.  I  knew  that  the  entire  floor  of  the  Rare  Gems  Room  was  wired  and  the  slight-  est  pressure  on  it  would  set  off  an  alarm.  I  was  lowered  in  upside  down  by  a  rope  from  the  skylight,  soI  wouldn't  touch  the  ground.  I  came  " b"through  neat  as  you  please,  and  ina  minute  I  was  hovering  over  the  fa-  mous  Kittridge  Diamonds  in  their  dis-  play  case.  As  I  pulled  out  my  glass  cutter  a  little  sparrow  flew  in  through  the  skylight  and  landed  on  the  floor.  The  alarm  sounded  and  eight  squad  cars  arrived.  I  got  ten  years.  The  sparrow  got  twenty  to  life.  The  bird  was  out  in  six  months,  on  probation.  A  year  later,  he  was  picked  up  in  Fort  Worth  for  pecking  Rabbi  Morris  Klugfein  into  a  state  of  semicon-  sciousness.  WHAT  advice  would  I  give  the  average  homeowner  to  protect  himself  against  burglars?  Well,  the  first  thing  is  to  keep  a  light  on  in  the  house  when  you  go  out.  It  must  be  at  least  a  sixty-watt  bulb;  anything  less  and  the  burglar  will  ransack  the  house,  out  of  contempt  for  the  wattage.  Another  good  idea  is  to  keep  a  dog,  but  this  is not  foolproof.  Whenever  I  was  about  to  roba  house  with  a  dog  in  it,  I  threw  in  some  dog  food  mixed  with  Seconal.  If  that  didn't  work,  1d  grind  up  equal  parts  of  chopped  meat  and  a  novel  by  Theodore  Dreiser.  If  it  happens  that  you  are  going  out  of  town  andmust  leave  your  house  unguarded,  it's  a  good  idea  to  put  a  cardboard  silhouette  of  yourself  in  the  window.  Any  silhouette  will  do.  A  [REDACTED]  man  once  placed  a  cardboard  silhouette  of  Montgomery  Clift  in  his  window  and  then  went  to  Kutsher's  for  the  weekend.  Later,  Montgomery  Clift  himself  happened  to  walk  by  and  saw  the  silhouette,  which  caused  him  great  anxiety.  He     attempted  to  strike  up  a  conversation,  and  when  it  failed  to  answer  for  seven  hours  Clift  returned  to  [REDACTED]  and  told  his  friends  that  New  Yorkers  were  snobbish.  If  you  surprise  an  intruder  in  theact  of  burglarizing  your  home,  do  not  panic.  Remember,  he  is  as  frightened  as  you  are.  One  good  device  is  to  rob  him.  Seize  the  initiative  and  relieve  the  bur-  glarof  his  watch  and  wallet.  Then  he  can  get  into  your  bed  while  you  make  a  getaway.  Trapped  by  this  defense,  I  once  wound  up  living  in  Des  Moines  for  six  years  with  another  man's  wife  and  three  children,  and  only  left  when  I  was  fortunate  enough  to  surprise  another  burglar,  who  took  my  place.  The  six  yearsI  lived  with  that  fam-  ily  were  very  happy  ones,  and  I  often  look  back  on  them  with  affection,  although  there  is  also  much  to  be  said  for  working  on  achain  gang.  "