 b"I  WENT  to  lunch  with  the  Rock  Critic  Establishment.  No  one  said  anything  about  its  being  a  lunch  forthe  Rock  Critic  Establishment.  No  one  was  as  unsubtle  as  that.  Nonethe-  less,all  of  us  at  lunch  knew  that  we  constituted  the  Rock  Critic  Establish-  ment,  as  how  could  we  not?  VivianAspair  was  there.  Vivian  Aspair  is  the  editor  of  Mother  Rock,  the  feminist  rock-and-roll  quarterly.  Vivian  has  a  theory  that  women  have  an  innate  urge  toward  percussion  that  has  been  thwarted  by  men.  Vivian  Aspair  is  trouble,.  Vivian  Aspair  tries  for  effect,  always,  and  clings  to  an  outmoded  preference  for  45-r.p.m.  singles.  She  used  tolive  with  Lester  Rax,  but  that  was  before  Monterey.  She  drinks  Wild  [REDACTED],  which  is  something  she  picked  up  from  the  Allman  Brothers  Band.  43756261  and  Dominica  [REDACTED]  (who  are  Negroes)  arrived  together.  They  walked  right  by  Vivian  and  sat  down  next  to  Lester  Rax.  43756261  and  Dominica  cultivate  Lester  Rax.  It  was  Lester  who  gave  43756261  and  Domini-  ca  their  first  break  in  Moonshadows  magazine  (the  old  Moonshadows,  the  monthly  on  newsprint,  not  the  slick  fag-  got  weekly  that  comes  out  now  ).  Dom-  inica,  who  hates  textiles  of  any  kind,  was  wearing  aluminum  party  pants,  as  usual.  43756261  was  dressed  in  a  soft  feminine  caftan  but  wore  one  of  the  lit-  tle  metal  spiders  people  are  taking  up.  &quot;I  love  your  spider,&quot;  Lester  Rax  said  to  43756261.  Anson  Briggs,  who  was  the  first  person  to  describe  Elton  John  as  &quot;an-  noying,&quot;  spoke  to  Vivian  but  not  to  Lester  Rax,  and  not,  thus,  to  Dominica  or  43756261  [REDACTED].  Anson  and  Lester  have  never  been  close,  although  both  of  them  are  friends  of  David  Gorm,  the  most  important  ofthe  daily  critics.  David  and  Anson  and  Lester  go  to  the  same  exercise  class,  but  they  are  assigned  to  different  platoons.  Anson  Briggs,  in  talking  to  Vivian  Aspair,  tried  to  turn  the  conversation  to  45-  r.p.m.  singles.  Anson  told  Vivian  that  he  had  all  the  singles  Elvis  put  out  on  Sun.  Vivian  laughed  wickedly,  &quot;That's  just  pathetic,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;That's  the  most  pathetic  thing  I  ever  heard  in  my  life.&quot;  Vivian  laughed  again.  People  grew  silent  to  hear  Vivian's  laugh.  &quot;He's  got  all  the  Elvis  singles  on  Sun,&quot;  Vivian  said  loudly.  &quot;Him  and  five  million  shopgirls.&quot;  Lester  Rax  just  ignored  Vivian.  It  really  gets  to  Vivian  when  Lester  ig-  nores  her.  Sometimes  when  the  Rock  Critic  Establishment  comes  together  all  that  really  happens  is  that  Lester  ig-  nores  Vivian  and  then  Vivian  makes  so  much  trouble  Lester  can't  ignore  her  anymore  and  then  the  group  breaks  up.  Lester  is  the  most  important  member  of  the  Rock  Critic  Establishment.  It  is  im-  possible  to  forget  that  Lester  founded  the  old  Moonshadows  magazine  on  National  Merit  Scholarship  money.  But  Lester  offends  a  lot  of  people.  Jack  Loam,  a  very  th  oughtful  writer,  doesn't  talk  to  Lester.  Angela  Farl,  an-  other  writer  of  distinction,  quarrelled  with  Lester  over  &quot;Blood  on  the  Tracks,&quot;  and  Lester  was  so  incredibly  mean  about  it  that  she  moved  to  [REDACTED].  Writers  like  Trine  in  [REDACTED],  Halstin  in  [REDACTED],  and  Joppe,  Sloan,  and  Haw-  thorn  (from  the  old  Polecat  group  in  San  Francisco)  steer  clear  of  Lester  altogether.  O  one  side  (at  lunch)  stood  Mary  Jacro,  who  is  not  a  member  of  the  Rock  Critic  Establishment.  Mary  Jacro  writes  forthe  leisure  pages  of  an  im-  portant  news  weekly.  She  goes  to  con-  certs  all  the  time,  which  none  of  the  rest  of  us  really  do-except  for  Gorm.  Mary  Jacro  will  interview  anyone.  Once  she  found  herself  on  a  hydrofoil  with  Jim  Morrison,  but  nothing  came  of  it.  Mary  Jacro  brought  to  lunch  a  friend  who  was  aresearcher  for  her  news  weekly.  This  researcher  thought  that  Mary  Jacro  belonged  to  the  Rock  Critic  Establishment.  &quot;Isn't  that  Vivian  Aspair?&quot;  the  re-  searcher  asked.  &quot;Oh,  yes,&quot;  said  Mary  Jacro.  &quot;Do  you  know  Vivian  Aspair?&quot;  asked  the  researcher.  &quot;Oh,  yes,&quot;  said  Mary  Jacro.  &quot;We  went  through  the  whole  Isle  of  Wight  thingtogether.&quot;  &quot;Why  don't  you  talk  to  her?&quot;  asked  the  researcher.  &quot;No  one  talks  much  at  these  things,&quot;  said  Mary  Jacro,  cursing  the  little  re-  searcher  to  herself.  Lunch  for  the  Rock  Critic  Estab-  lishment  was  providedby  the  public-  ity  department  of  Modern  Rhythm  Records.  Allison  Fradrer,  the  head  of  Artist  Development  at  Modern " b"Rhythm  Records,  supervised  the  cater-  ing.  The  vogue  at  that  moment  was  for  very  expensive  lunches.  There  was  saddle  of  lamb,  there  were  tiny  little  carrots  and  tiny  little  potatoes,  and  there  were  several  wines.  &quot;Oh,  God,&quot;  said  Lester  Rax.  &quot;Saddle  of  lamb  again.&quot;  Lester  Rax  took  on  his  plate  the  tiny  carrots  only.  Vivian  Aspair  began  to  pound  her  thigh  with  her  fist  in  a  manner  that  was  percussive.  &quot;Oh,  God,&quot;  said  Lester  Rax.  &quot;Vivian  is  going  into  one  of  her  trances.&quot;  Allison  Fradrer  handed  out  press  kits.  The  vogue  at  that  moment  was  for  press  kits  with  a  pieceof  clothing  inside.  Each  press  kit  contained  a  flannel  shirt.  The  flannel  shirts  were  white.  Across  each  one  the  legend  &quot;TRAITOR&quot;  had  been  stencilled  in  black.  Allison  tried  to  talk  fora  minute  to  each  member  of  the  Rock  Critic  Establishment  as  she  handed  out  the  press  kits.  She  gave  extra  time  to  Lester  Rax.  She  told  Les-  ter  about  the  rock-and-roll  group  Traitor.  &quot;Listen,  I  wouldn't  try  to  hype  you,  Les,&quot;  she  began.  &quot;I  mean,  let's  talk  turkey-these  kids  aren't  really  trai-  tors.  I  mean,  Jimmy,  the  lead,  spent  some  time  in  [REDACTED],  and  I  think  he  was  involved  in  some  fragging  or  some-  thing,  but  we're  really  not  even  push-  ing  that  angle.&quot;  &quot;Good,&quot;  Lester  said.  &quot;The  other  kids-Rushing,  Jake,  and  Calvin-have  just  had  the  usual  drug  busts  and  I  think  we're  just  going  to  soft-pedal  the  whole  thing,&quot;  Allison  said.  &quot;Great,&quot;  Lester  said.  &quot;I  told  them  upstairs,  'Don't  hype  it  with  a  criminal-record  thing,  because  it  willjust  backfire,&quot;  &quot;  Allison  said.  &quot;And  so  we're  going  with  a  much  more  hon-  est  approach,  which  is  great  because  we  don't  really  need  to  hype  it,  because  in  spirit  these  kids  are  completely  criminal  and  against  the  whole  blind  loyalty-  duty-sin-guilt  thing.&quot;  &quot;Umm,&quot;  Lester  said.  &quot;Which  is  exactly  where  it's  at,&quot;  Al-  lison  said.  &quot;I  mean,  beyond  Punk  Rock.&quot;  &quot;Beyond  Punk  Rock?&quot;  Vivian  asked  wickedly.  &quot;Did  she  say  'beyond  Punk  Rock?&quot;  &quot;I'm  sorry,  Allison,&quot;  Lester  said.  &quot;I  think  it's  just  hype.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  no,&quot;  Allison  said.  &quot;This  kid  Calvin,&quot;  Lester  said.  &quot;Wasn't  he  ...  didn't  he  ...  do  back-  up  for  Donovan?&quot;  &quot;He  was  a  child,&quot;  Allison  said.  &quot;My  God,  you  can't  hold  that  against  him.  And  he  was  very  disillusioned.  He  prac-tically  had  a  breakdown.  It  was  very  painful.&quot;  Allison  was  nervous.  Every-  one  else  was  quiet--even  Vivian.  &quot;I'm  sorry,  Allison,&quot;  Lester  said.  &quot;I'm  afraid  it's  just  hype.&quot;  I  should  explain  that  Lester  has  the  most  stringent  standards  of  anyone  in  the  Rock  Critic  Establishment.  Some  people  think  that  because  he  usually  goes  to  the  Coast  on  the  Modern  Rhythm  jet  his  position  has  been  com-  promised,  but  it  isn't  true.  Lester  won't  lie  for  anybody.  Lester  was  the  first  to  say  that  Jimi  Hendrix  was  being  too  self-indulgent  with  those  endless  riffs.  &quot;The  ultimate  groove  is  one  chord,  but  so  what?&quot;  was  something  Lester  said.  He  said  that  to  Ben  Joppe  at  a  time  when  Joppe  was  deep  into  Cream  and  Cream  was  deep  into  jamming.  Lester  has  always  said  exactly  what  was  on  his  mind.  Lester  has  always  stood  for  complete  integrity.  Where  Lester  goes  wrong  is  that  he  doesn't  know  his  own  power.  The  fact  is  that  the  Rock  Critic  Establishment  is  an  enormously  power-  ful  institution,  and  the  fact  is  that  Les-  ter  is  the  most  powerful  member  of  that  institution.  But  Lester  just  won't  come  to  terms  with  that.  ALISON  FraprER  gave  a  Traitor  shirt  to  Mary  Jacro.  Allison  treats  Mary  Jacro  as  though  she  were  a  member  of  the  Rock  Critic  Estab-  lishment,  which  is  why  Modern  Rhythm  gets  coverage  in  the  leisure  pages  of  Mary  Jacro's  news  weekly.  Allison  Fradrer  gave  a  shirt  to  Mary  Jacro's  friend,  the  little  researcher.  The  researcher  put  the  shirt  on  right  then  and  there,  which  was  a  big  gaffe  and  very  embarrassing  to  Mary  Jacro.  To  make  up  forthe  research-  er's  gaffe  and  to  make  sure  she  stayed  on  the  Modern  Rhythm  guest  list  (and  to  make  sure  she  got  another  chance  to  meet  Vivian  Aspair),  Mary  Jacro  promised  Allison  Fradrer  a  spread  on  Traitor  in  the  leisure  pages  of  her  news  weekly.  (This  spread,  by  the  way,  saved  Allison  Fradrer's  job.  Allison  had  been  in  deep  trouble  for  failing  to  get  any  cov-  erage  for  the  comeback  of  Valerian  DiMucci,  who  is  doing  disco  versions  of  his  1956  hits,  with  no  success  at  all.  Allison  staged  a  shoot-  ing  for  Traitor  at  theold  immigration  depot  on  Ellis  Island,  and  Mary  Jacro  wrote  a  story  under  the  headline  &quot;TRAITOR:  BEYOND  PUNK  ROCK.&quot;  This  story,  the  only  publicity  resulting  from  the  Traitor  lunch,  was  then  made  into  a  little  flyer,  which  was  reproduced  in  quantity  and  sent  to  the  members  of  the  Rock  Critic  Estab-  lishment,  who  threw  it  away.)  GERALD  SHINE  arrived  for  dessert,  which  was  a  very  delicate  mousse  au  citron.  Gerald  Shine  is  indirectly  a  member  of  the  Rock  Critic  Establish-  ment.  He  writes  a  column  for  a  mimeo-  graphed  tip  sheet.  What  he  does,  most-  " b"ly,  is  write  about  mem-  bers  of  the  Rock  Critic  Establishment.  Gerald  Shine  is  the  onlyperson  who  is  on  speaking  terms  with  both  Vivian  and  Lester.  Gerald  sat  down  next  to  Vivian  Aspair,  and  just  at  that  minute  Jimmy  Garvin,  the  lead  singer  of  Traitor,  came  in.  Al-  lison  Fradrer  had  hoped  Jimmy  Garvin  wouldn't  come  to  lunch,  but  it  was  hard  to  explain  to  him  why  he  shouldn't  come,  so  he  came.  Gerald  Shine  looked  at  Jimmy  Gar-  vin  with  contempt.  &quot;Well,  what  do  we  think  of  this  number?&quot;  Gerald  asked  Vivian  Aspair.  &quot;Just  Ticketron  trash,&quot;  said  Vivian  Aspair.  &quot;Oh!&quot;  said  Gerald  Shine  with  mock  horror.  &quot;Aren't  you  mean.&quot;  Lester  talked  to  43756261  [REDACTED]  about  real  estate.  Lester  predicted  con-  tinued  softness  in  the  condominium  market.  Allison  Fradrer  waited  for  Lester  to  finish.  Then,  very  politely,  she  asked  Lester  if  he  would  like  to  meet  Jimmy  Garvin,  the  lead  singer  of  Traitor.  &quot;'That's  very  sweet  of  you  to  ask,&quot;  Lester  said.  &quot;But  no.&quot;  It  was  a  mistake  for  Allison  to  go  to  Lester  first.  If  there  had  been  a  major  star  in  the  room  protocol  would  have  demanded  that  he  be  brought  to  Lester  first,  but  it  was  a  mistake  to  bring,  or  even  to  offer  to  bring,  a  non-estab-  lished  singer  to  Lester  first.  If  Lester  had  agreed  to  meet  Jimmy  Garvin  it  would  have  seemed  like  an  endorse-  ment,  since  the  meeting  would  have  taken  place  in  front  of  the  entire  Rock  Critic  Establishment.  So  Lester  was  obliged  to  refuse.  Allison  Fradrer  had  the  sense  to  know  that  once  Lester  had  refused  to  meet  Jimmy  Garvin  every-  one  else  in  the  Rock  Critic  Establish-  ment  would  refuse  to  meet  him,  too,  so  she  took  Jimmy  Garvin  over  to  Mary  Jacro  and  the  little  researcher.  Mary  Jacro  was  thrilled.  The  little  re-  searcher,  who  had  been  having  doubts,  was  convinced  that  Mary  Jacro  be-  longed  to  the  Rock  Critic  Establish,  ment  after  all.  ERALD  SHINE  was  angry  that  he  had  not  been  given  a  chance  to  refuse  to  meet  Jimmy  Garvin,  the  lead  singer  of  Traitor.  To  show  how   annoyed  he  was  he  went  up  to  Les-  ter  Rax  and  told  Lester  that  he  thought  Traitor  was  going  to  be  big.  &quot;I  think  they're  going  to  happen,  Les,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  really  do.  I  love  the  whole  disloyalty  thing.  I  think  it's  very  new.  I  think  it's  the  most  exciting  thing  since  Anson  discovered  Bruce  Spring-  steen.&quot;  This  was  just  an  incredibly  explo-  sive  thing  for  Gerald  Shine  to  say,  and  it  brought  up  the  most  complicated  and  dangerous  issues  facing  the  Rock  Critic  Establishment.  Actually,  Trinc  had  been  the  first  writer  to  see  Springsteen:  Trinc  saw  Springsteen  and  told  Ben  Joppe  that  Springsteen  was  &quot;great,&quot;  and  then  Joppe  saw  Springsteen  and  said  Springsteen  was  &quot;great,&quot;  too.  But  Trine  and  Joppe  are  into  a  whole  reportorial  number,and  while  they  are  respected,  they  aren't  really  critics,  and  they  see  hundreds  of  singers  and  they  say  So-  and-So  is  &quot;great&quot;  and  it  doesn't  matter  so  much.  So  it  wasn't  until  a  month  or  so  after  Joppe  said  Springsteen  was  &quot;great&quot;  in  the  Sunday  Times  enter-  tainment  section  that  it  really  began  to  happen.  What  happened  was  that  Les-  ter  began  to  feel  that  it  was  time  for  him  to  get  involved,  and  he  saw  Spring-  steen  and  began  to  write  a  really  long  piece,  which  everyone  knew  about  and  was  waiting  for,  but  in  the  meantime  Anson  Briggs  saw  Springsteen  and  had  a  mimor  stroke  at  the  performance,  which  got  a  lot  of  publicity,  and  when  Anson  Briggs  returned  to  consciousness  he  said  that  he  had  had  a  vision  of  Springsteen  as  a  Black  Angel  and  he  said  that  Springsteen  &quot;justified  the  fu-  ture,&quot;  which  was  a  phrase  that  caught  on.  So  Briggs  got  all  the  credit  for  dis-  covering  Springsteen,  which  was  ironic,  because  the  piece  that  Lester  wrote  about  Springsteen  was  probably  the  finest  thing  he  ever  did  and  was  a  beautiful  piece  of  writing.  Lester  was  cool  in  the  faceof  Gerald  Shine's  hostile  remark.  &quot;I  think  that's  just  hype,  Gerald&quot;  was  what  Lester  said.  It  really  annoyed  Gerald  that  Les-  ter  was  so  cool  and  he  left  without  fin-  ishing  his  mousse  aw  citron.  Vivian  was  really  mad,  too.  She  came  up  to  Ha-  vana  [REDACTED],  who  was  sitting  right  next  to  Lester.  &quot;I  just  hate  your  stupid  metal  spider,&quot;she  said,  and  then  she  left,  and  then  the  party  thinned  out.  There  has  been  an  incredible  amount  of  malicious  talk  about  what  happened  at  lunch  that  day,  most  of  it  started  by  Gerald  Shine.  I  have  heard  people  say  that  Lester  threw  a  metal  spider  at  Vivian,  that  Lester  made  a  pass  at  Mary  Jacro,  that  Lester  tried  to  punch  out  Anson  Briggs,  and  so  on,  but  none  of  that  is  true.  The  most  stupid  rumor  was  that  Lester  tried  to  get  Jimmy  Garvin,  lead  singer  of  Traitor,  to  pose  for  nude  pictures,  which  is  completely  untrue,  and  whichshows  that  some  people  still  confuse  Lester  Rax  with  Lester  Walkib,  the  Syrian  who  is  the  editorof  the  new  Moonshadows  maga-  zine.  Later  on,  Lester  Walkib  did  take  some  pictures  of  Jimmy  Garvin  for  the  new  Moonshadows,  but  he  wasn't  at  lunch  that  day  (that  day,  in  fact,  he  was  presenting  the  Walkib  Dance  Award  to  an  octogenarian  ballerina),  and  in  any  case  he  is  definitely  not  a  member  of  the  Rock  Critic  Establish-  ment-a  fact  that  must  irk  him.  "