 b"IT  has  beenover  a  year  now  since,  in  the  wake  of  demoralizing  set-  backs,  I  finally  abandoned  my  43616e616461Village  apartment  to  the  North  Vietnamese.  It  was  a  time  of  great  chaos.  In  my  haste  I  had  no  choice  but  to  leave  behind  hundreds  of  dollars'  worth  of  appliances,  clothing,  and  plants.  The  panic,  the  loss  of  my  security  de-  posit,  getting  my  phone  turned  off,  pack-  ing  my  small  travelling  bag,  grabbing  a  taxi-all  that  seems  like  a  dim  night-  mare  to  me  now.  But  as  the  painful  memories  have  lost  some  of  their  sharp-  ness,  my  curiosity  has  grown.  How  has  my  apartment  changed  in  the  past  year  and  a  half?  What  have  the  Com-  munists  managed  to  make  of  the  place  where  I  sustained  a  free  and  demo-  cratic  life  forthebetter  part  of  two  years?  I,  of  course,  have  not  been  allowed  to  visit  my  old  pied-a-terre,  but  from  accounts  of  Taiwanese  busi-  nessmen  and  Belgian  journalists  who  have  been  allowed  in  I  have  managed  to  piece  together  a  picture  of  the  new  Apartment  6-A  at  226  Waverly  Place.  More  than  a  year  after  its  fall,  6-A  appears  to  be  an  apartment  still  in  tran-  sition.  In  theliving  room,  the  Commu-  nists  have  retained  much  of  my  furni-  ture,  including  my  stereo  and  my  por-  table  color-  TV.  All  the  furniture  and  appliances  that  used  to  belong  to  me  AFTER  THE  FALL  have  been  registered  and  given  identity  cards.  My  two  end  tables  have  been  re-  moved,  under  the  Communists'  Return  to  Deco  Shop  of  Origin  program.  My  terra-cotta  fish  poacher  and  horseshoe-  crab-shell  lamps  have  been  relocated  out  into  the  country.  My  couch  hassub-  mitted  to  voluntary  reupholstering.  The  Communists  have  kept  all  my  record  albums,  and  I  am  told  that  theyplay  them  a  lot.  My  cat,  Bill,  who  likes  to  watch  pigeons,  seems  perfectly  happy  with  his  new  name,  Ho  Chi  Minh  Domestic  Animal.  My  clippings  of  &quot;Ziggy&quot;and  &quot;Today's  Chuckle&quot;  are  no  longer  taped  to  the  refrigerator,  and  in  their  place  are  Communist  maxims:  &quot;Advance  in  the  Flush  of  Victory  with  New  Vigor  and  Re-  member  to  Get  an  Extra  Set  of  Keys  Made!,&quot;  &quot;Strive  Resolutely  to  Pick  Up  the  People's  Laundry  Before  Five!,&quot;  and  &quot;Work  for  a  Striking  Development  of  Our  Sunny  [REDACTED]  Nook!&quot;  In  general,  the  kitchen  has  a  more  func-  tional,  lived-in  look  than  before,  when  I  mainly  used  it  to  prepare  cans  of  Campbell's  Chunky  Beef  Soup.  Among  the  more  important  dynam-  ics  at  work  in  the  redesign  of  my  apart-  ment  is  a  division  between  two  schools  of  thought  in  the  Politburo  of  the  Work-  ers'  Party,  One  school,  the  moderates,  maintains  that  illiterate  peasants  who  have  only  recently  emerged  from  the jungles  and  paddies  after  a  twenty-year  period  of  war  and  apartment-hunting  cannot  be  expected  to  have  any  sense  of  design,  style,  color,  or  fabric,  and  that  the  new  government  should  not  be  afraid  to  hire  interior  decorators  who  may  be  foreign-born  or  who  even  may  not  hold  to  the  strict  Communist  Party  line.  The  hard-liners,  on  the  other  hand,  believe  that  coming  up  with  a  decorating  scheme  is  well  within  the  powers  of  the  North  Vietnamese  Army,  and  that  all  they  really  have  to  do  is  put  a  couple  of  coats  of  barn-red  deck  paint  on  the  floor,  paint  the  walls  and  ceiling  off-white,  buy  a  couple  of  nice  rugs  and  some  hanging  plants  and  some  big  pillows,  and  then  get  a  wheel  of  Brie  and  throw  a  party  to  break  the  place  in.  A  similar  theoretical  split  exists  among  the  members  ofthe  Phong-trao  Phu-nu  Giai-phong,  or  Freed  Women  Move-  ment,  whose  efforts  to  fix  the  bath-  room  so  that  the  cold-water  pipe  under  the  sink  doesn't  leak  on  the  physical  therapist  in  5-A  havebeen  beset  with  problems.  The  moderates  advocate  try-  ing  Liquid-plumr  or  an  Epoxi-Patch,  while  the  hard-liners  believe  it  is  the  landlord's  problem,  and  if  he  doesn't  do  something  about  it  pretty  soon  they  favor  going  after  the  windshield  of  his  Mercury  Montego  with  a  Volkswagen  jack.  At  present,  the  moderates  hold  sway  in  most  areas  of  the  renovation  of  Apartment  6-A,  and  the  success  of  their  efforts  over  the  next  few  months  will  very  likely  determine  whether  they  or  the  hard-liners  will  continue  to  formulate  apartment  policy  in  such  un-  resolved  areas  as  the  potentially  divisive  matchstick  versus  traditional-plastic-  venetian  window-blind  issue.  In  recent  months,  the  Communists  have  been  entertaining  more-having  more  people  over  at  Plenteous  Rice  Harvest  Brunches  and  Revere  Pro-  gressive  Elders  At-Homes,  and  guests  have  remarked  that  they  notice  a  new  atmosphere  of  hope  in  my  former  resi-  dence.  After  all,  it's  ina  nice  neigh-  borhood,  and  it's  convenient-right  on  the  I.  R.T.-and  there  are  lots  of  things  to  do  in  the  area,  and  the  Communists  have  my  list  of  sitters.  They  have  a  two-year  lease  on  the  place,  so  unless  rent  control  is  repealed  the  rent  won't  go  up  right  away,  and  they  also  have  a  sublet  clause,  just  in  case  they  ever  want  to  move  on.  It's  a  fairly  safe  part  of  town,  and  just  a  couple  of  blocks  away  there's  a  delicatessen  that's  open  until  two,  where  they  sell  Pepperidge  Farm  cookies,  and  there  are  some  ter-  rific  new  courses  they  can  take  at  The  New  School,  and  things  just  might  turn  out  to  be  not  all  that  bad.  "