 b"TO  4b656e7961,  Mogadisho,  and  Modesto  I  have  been;  to  Mon-  tecatini,  Montenegro,  and  Mo-  naco;  but  never,  wide-ranging  W  an-  dervogel  though  I  pride  myself  on  being,  have  I  set  foot  in  Monza.  A  town  northeast  of  Milan  and  slightly  northwest  of  Gorgonzola,  on  the  road  to  Bergamo,  Monza  has  as  its  chief  in-  dustry,  as  far  as  I  can  make  out,  the  export  of  curiosa  to  the  world  press.  Here  are  born  those  strange  and  often  lunatic  fillers  that  piece  out  the  news  stories  one  reads,  such  as  the  paragraph  that  filtered  into  the  Times  a  while  ago:  &quot;Monza,  4974616c79  (AP)-Ambro-  gio  Bacis,  69  years  old,  does  not  like  dentists,  so  topull  an  aching  tooth  he  fastened  a  cord  to  the  tooth  and  the  other  end  to  an  automobile  bumper,  and  started  the  car.  Mr.  Bacis's  head  collided  with  the  bumper,  and  he  wound  up  in  the  hospital,  with  the  tooth  still  in  his  mouth.&quot;  To  my  way  of  thinking,  the  classical  Tom  Sawyer  ex-  traction-the  silk  thread  tied  to  the  bedstead,  the  hot  coal  brandished  in  the  patient's  face-remains  unsurpassed  in  home  dentistry,  but  obviously  Bacis,  in  his  anxiety  to  be  up  to  date,  opted  for  a  fifteen-hundred-pound  Imbroglio.  Ah,  well,  autres  temps,  autres  meeurs.  Another  and  even  more  seductive  item  emanating  from  Monza  turned  up  in  the  Jerusalem  Post  recently;  to  wit:  &quot;It  must  rank  as  one  of  the  strang-  est  cocktail  parties  ever-and  it  was  thrown  by  well-dressed  Sebastiano  Amara,  of  Monza,  4974616c79,  to  boost  sales  of  a  book  he's  just  published,  'How  to  Make  Begging  Pay.)  The  suave  au-  thor  and  man-about-town  received  his  guests,  doled  out  liberal  Martinis,  then  begged  to  be  excused.  In  a  few  minutes  he  returned-disguised  as  a  crippled  beggar,  his  face  contorted  with  agony  as  he  hobbled  in  on  crutches.  Guests  in  cars  thenfollowed  25-year-  old  Sebastiano  to  Monza's  main  shop-  ping  street,  watched  as  he  laid  his  crutches  on  the  pavement  and  started  weeping.  In  ten  minutes  he  had  collected  the  equivalent  of  $15.  In  his  book  he  claims  he  never  col-  lected  less  than  $100  a  day,  and  says,  'I  did  it  as  a  part-  time  job,  mainly  for  aesthetic  pleasure,  and  only  partlyfor  pocket  money.'  &quot;  My  initial  response  to  Si-  gnor  Amara's  exploit  was,  I  must  confess,  one  of  jeal-  ousy.  Myself  a  suave  author  and  man-about-town,  I  was  piqued  that  I  hadn'tconceived  so  orig-  inal  a  method  of  publicizing  my  own  books.  As  envy  subsided,  though,  one  phrase  of  his  kept  pestering  me  like  a  caraway  seed  embedded  in  a  tooth  (a  dental  metaphor  doubtless  arising  from  Mr.  Bacis's  predicament):  that  he  had  acted  thus  &quot;mainly  for  aesthetic  pleasure.&quot;  Now,  among  various  para-  gons  on  whom  I  have  modelled  myself  from  time  to  time-the  Scarlet  Pim-  pernel,  the  Earl  of  Rochester,  Baruch  Spinoza-one  ofthe  more  influential  was  Des  Esseintes,  the  hero  of  Joris  Karl  Huysmans'  &quot;Against  the  Grain,&quot;  who  ceaselessly  sought  artistic  stimulus  in  drugs,  perfumes,  and  vice.  Was  it  possible  that  this  scribbler  on  the  road  to  Bergamo  had  experienced  in  mendi-  cancy  a  psychic  release  overlooked  by  Des  Esseintes  andme,  deftly  fattening  his  royalties  meanwhile?  Unimaginable,  Itold  myself,  but  still  I  ought  to  lose  no  time  in  emulating  him,  and  I  fell  to  work.  As  a  neophyte  in  the  world  of  beg-  gary,  I  decided  that  the  role  best  suited  to  me  was  traditional.  Accordingly,  I  purchased  a  ragged  shawl  and  a  size-12  gingham  dress  from  a  pushcart  on  Riv-  ington  Street,  and  issued  invitations  to  a  half-dozen  friends  for  cocktails  at  my  hotel  on  Gramercy  [REDACTED].  At  the  height  of  the  party,  while  my  guests  were  feverishly  consuming  Martinis  and  bandying  epigrams,  I  excused  myself,  retired  to  the  bedroom,  and  trans-  formed  myself  into  a  waif.  The  con-  version  was  not  wholly  successful,  as  the  little  match  girl  in  the  fairy  tale  of  Hans  Christian  Andersen  is  rarely  de-  picted  with  a  mustache,  but  nonetheless  I  resolved  to  brazen  it  out.  To  my  gratification,  the  effect  on  the  assem-  blage  was  volcanic.  Everyone  literally  stood  rooted  to  the  floor.  &quot;Voyons!  A  supreme  master  of  illu-  sion!&quot;  I  heard  people  exclaiming.  &quot;Another  Lon  Chaney!  Can  our  eyes  be  deceiving  us?  In  a  few  expert strokes,  this  arbiter  elegantiarum  has,  as  it  were,  metamorphosed  himself  into  a  vag.&quot;  Like  Sebastiano,  I  would  have  liked  my  intimates  to  follow  me  in  their  motors,  but,as  none  of  them  owned  any,  I  bade  them  go  on  drinking-a  somewhat  empty  gesture,  since  the  bottles  were  exhausted-and  took  my  leave.  Crossing  to  the  south  side  of  Gramercy  [REDACTED],  I  stationed  myself  with  my  tray  of  matches  outside  The  Players  Club.  The  circumstances,  I  saw  at  once,  were  unpropitious.  Ideally,  it  should  have  been  snowing;  instead,  it  was  a  hot,  sultry  evening,  beckoning  the  passerby  to  Baskin-Robbins  for  an  ice-cream  cone  rather  than  to  contrib-  ute  alms.  After  a  while,  a  gentleman  came  out  of  the  club,  placing  his  feet  with  great  deliberation,  in  the  manner  of  one  who  has  dined  well  on  glazed  Virginia  ham  with  sweet  potatoes.  &quot;Please,  sir,  buy  my  matches,&quot;  I  whined.  &quot;Owing  to  a  conspiracy  among  the  reviewers,  my  latest  book  is  al-  ready  on  the  eighty-nine-cent  table  at  Barnes  &amp;  Noble.  Have  pity  on  me-  don't  let  them  recycle  it.  Also,  I  write  by  gaslight,  and  Consolidated  Edison  is  threatening  to  cut  offthe  gas.  Sup-  port  the  arts,  even  if,  as  I  suspect,  you  can  barely  support  yourself.&quot;  My  prospect  gaped  at  me  incredu-  lously  and,  muttering  to  himself,  went  back  into  the  club.  An  ashen-haired  model  in  three  shades  of  denim,  leading  an  ashen-haired  borzoi,  approached;  as  they  neared  me,  the  dog  sat  down  growling  and  she  pulled  him  past  with  an  apologetic  &quot;Sorry,  he  hates  beggars&quot;  that  at  least  certified  that  my  disguise  was  valid.  Then  two  character  actors,  their  brows  furrowed  by  unemploy-  ment,  emerged  from  'The  Players.  Sucking  in  my  cheeks  to  simulate  the  ravages  of  hunger,  I  bore  down  on  them.  &quot;'A  benison,  playgoers,  a  cornu-  copia!  A  feast  for  the  intelligence!'&quot;  I  snuffled.  &quot;That  is  what  the  New  York  critics  wrote  about  my  last  play-  amateur  rights  now  available  from  Samuel  French,  Incor-  porated.  And  how  many  scripts  have  they  sold?  Three  lousy  copies!  How  am  I  to  sustain  myself,  to  wield  my  pen  in  the  tradition  of  Con-  greve,  Sheridan,  and  Wilde,  without  your  philanthropic  assistance?  Buy  my  vestas,  I  implore  you.&quot;  &quot;Beat  it,  chump,&quot;  the  eld-  er  of  the  pair  countered  roughly.  &quot;Save  those  hard-  luck  stories  for  the  Bowery.  " b"Write  yourself  a  soap  for  Procter  &amp;  Gamble,  or  go  on  relief,  like  the  rest  of  us.&quot;  Crestfallen  and  perspiring  from  the  heat  of  the  shawl,  I  shambled  back  to  the  hotel  and  sat  down  to  rethink  a  modus  operandi.  Could  it  be,  I  asked  myself,  that  the  per-  sona  I  had  chosen  was  too  depressing,  that  people  would  be  more  generous  if  the  na-  ture  of  my  plight  were  bi-  zarre  or  offbeat?  To  the  fi-  ery  temperament,  decision  is  consonant  with  action;  in  a  trice  I  divested  myself  of  my  rags,  slipped  into  a  dinner  jacket,  and,  faultlessly  ar-  rayed  in  black  silk  hose  but  no  slippers,  shot  uptown  in  a  taxi.  Dismounting  between  two  expensive  [REDACTED]  43616e616461apartments  in  the  Sixties,  I  took  up  a  stand  near  the  canopy  of  the  more  opu-  lent.  Several  cabs  arrived  bearing  couples  and  parties,  but  I  ignored  them.  At  length,  one  discharged  a  jo-  vial,  fortyish  individual  with  a  worldly  air,  smoking  a  Perfecto.  I  accosted  him  fur-  tively.  &quot;Excuse  me,  friend,  but  I'm  in  a  bit  of  a  jam.  Might  we  have  a  word?&quot;  His  eyes  encompassed  my  garb,  widened  at  my  stockinged  feet.  &quot;What  is  it?&quot;  &quot;Well,&quot;  I  confided,  chuckling  in  hearty  man-to-man  fashion,  &quot;the  fact  is,  I  was  having  a  slap  and  a  tickle  with  a  certain  married  lady  in  this  building  whose  identity  must  be  protected  at  all  costs.  I  mean,  we're  all  human,  what?  As  the  fellow  said,  who's  to  cast  the  first  stone?&quot;  ''Yes,  yes,&quot;  he  said  impatiently.  &quot;So  her  husband  came  home  unexpectedly  and  you  left  just  in  the  nick  with-  out  your  pumps.  Where  do  I  fit  into  this?&quot;  &quot;Wait.  I  was  coming  to  that.&quot;  I  swallowed.  &quot;You  see,  I'm  a  writer  by  profession,  and  I'm  supposed  to  auto-  graph  my  new  best-seller  at  Double-  day's  for  admirers,  but  I  can't  let  them  see  me  like  this.  Unfortunately,  though,  I  forgot  my  wallet  upstairs,  too.If  you  could  lend  me  the  price  ofa  new  pair-&quot;  He  cut  me  short  with  a  paternal  hand  on  my  sleeve.  &quot;Shape  up,  broth-  er,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You're  not  a  writer-  you're  a  schmo.  Anyone  that  leaves  their  shoes  and  their  wallet  in  a  lady's  boudoir  is  a  butterfingers.  Take  my  ad-  vice-if  you  want  to  play  Lothario,  go  join  the  Actors  Studio.&quot;  He  shook  his  head  commiseratingly  and  melted  into  the  foyer.  Dashed  though  I  was  by  his  rebuff,  I  was  not  minded  to  give  up  so  easily,  and  I  squared  my  jaw.  Of  the  next  two  arrivals,  the  first  rejected  my  appeal  on  the  ground  that  no  shoe  stores  were  open  at  that  hour,  the  second  derisive-  ly  demanded  the  name  of  my  inamo-  rata.  In  nineteen  years'  residence  in  the  house,  he  said,  he  had  yet  to  see  a  fe-  male  worthy  of  pursuit.  As  if  to  make  matters  worse,  it  shortly  came  on  to  rain,  and  by  the  time  I  reached  home  in  my  wet  socks  I  had  such  a  cold  that  laryngologists  skyed  in  from  as  far  away  as  Mayo  to  study  it.  URING  the  long,  slow  convales-  cence  that  followed,  I  stewed  over  my  inability  to  equal  Sebastiano's  receipts  or  to  glean  even  amite  of  aes-  thetic  pleasure  from  the  process.  At  last,  I  hit  on  the  reason.  The  identities  I  had  chosen,  match  girl  and  philan-  derer,  were  too  foreign  to  my  nature.  Temperamentally  a  dreamer  and  a  rover,  I  was  trying  to  bea  schnorrer,  too,  which  was  altogether  alien,  for  au  fond  I  was  prouder  than  a  Spanish  hidalgo  and  would  accept  alms  from  noman,  It  was  out  of  character-as  if  Lord  Olivier  were  to  impersonate  Pecksniff  and  then  pass  the  hat.  Ergo,  I  must  not  disemble;  I  must  boldly  admit  myself  a  genius  whose  wares  were  unsalable,  a  drug  on  the  market,  and  if  that  shamed  an  apathetic  public  into  showering  me  with  gold,  I  could  with  dignity  accept  my  rightful  due.  Immediately  a  weight  lifted  from  my  shoulders.  Donning  the  velvet  jacket,  Windsor  tie,  and  beret  I  normally  wear  when  writing,  I  hurried  to  the  Marboro  bookshop  on  West  Eighth  Street.  Rapture-my  suspicion  was  confirmed;  an  unsold  pile  of  my  most  recent  opus,  reduced  to  fifty-nine  cents,  loomed  up  higher  than  a  zig-  gurat.  Folding  my  arms,  I  took  up  a  position  alongside  it  and  waited  to  be  pitied.  Half  an  hour  passed  and  nobody  ap-  peared-not  even  a  kleptomaniac.  Fi-  nally,  a  heavily  bearded  man  in  a  filthy  " b"Confederate  tunic,  who  looked  like  Colonel  Mosby  but  proved  to  be  a  youth  of  seventeen,  materialized  and  asked  the  clerk  fora  primer  on  flagel-  lation.  A  couple  of  teen-agers  with  schoolbags  came  in,  leafed  through  Eberhard  and  Phyllis  Kronhausen's  &quot;Pornography  and  the  Law,&quot;  and  left,  sniffing  disappointedly.  A  stout  yenta  in  picador  dress  but  minus  leather  chaps  exchanged  a  copy  of  Sara  Kasdan's  &quot;Love  and  Knishes&quot;  fora  poster  of  Donatello's  David.  With  that,  all  ac-  tivity  halted,  and  I  grew  hot  under  the  collar.  My  patience  was  ebbing  fast.  &quot;Hey  ,  General  Guderian,  what  gives  here?&quot;  I  queried  the  uniformed  guard  sportinga  nightstick.  &quot;Where  are  the  browsers?&quot;  &quot;Nobody  gets  up  before  noon  in  the  Village,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Takes  a  while  for  the  marijuana  fumes  to  clear.&quot;  In  due  course,  the  pace  altered;  shoppers,  most  of  them  somnambulists,  started  drifting  through  the  aisles,  lan-  guidly  fingering  the  bargains  and  striv-  ing  to  read  the  erotica  sealed  in  cello-  phane.  Posed  by  my  works,  I  assumed  an  expression  at  once  dismal  and  haughty,  insouciantyet  despondent,  that  would  have  wrung  the  stoniest  heart.  But  naught  booted  me,  truth  to     tell,  for  as  the  illiterate  swine  neared  my  books  their  faces  hardened  and  they  sheared  off,  burying  their  noses  in  the  fescennine  pages  of  Harold  Rob-  bins  and  Irving  Wallace.  Resolved  that  those  who  had  died  for  literature  should  not  have  fallen  in  vain,I  determined  to  speak  out.  &quot;So  the  philistines  have  triumphed  again,  have  they?&quot;  I  began,  raising  my  voice.  &quot;What  price  now  Kafka  in  his  garret,  Melville  eking  out  his  days  as  a  customs  inspector?  Was  it  for  this  that  Keats&quot;  Suddenly  the  words  died  in  my  throat;  a  Lincolnian  figure  I  recog-  nized  as-or  took  to  be--Philip  Roth's  had  entered  the  door  and  was  scanning  the  counters  for  remaindered  copies  of  his  books.  He  did  not  have  to  scan  long,  because  adjacent  to  mine  stood  an-  other  ziggurat,  even  taller  and  likewise  discounted,  of  &quot;The  Great  American  Novel.&quot;  In  the  same  instant,  his  quick  novelist's  eve  discerned  what  I  was  do-  ing  and  he  strode  angrily  toward  me.  &quot;Scab!  Cut-rate  fink!&quot;  he  exploded.  &quot;So  this  is  how  you  dispose  of  your  overstock,  by  appealing  to  the  sentimen-  tal  side  of  your  non-readers!&quot;  &quot;For  shame,  mealymouth!&quot;  I  flung  back.  &quot;Who  are  you  to  criticize?  You  were  just  sneaking  in  to  push  your  own  remainders.  I  at  least  was  bent  on  deriving  aesthetic  pleasure  from  my  hu-  miliation.&quot;  &quot;Oho!&quot;  he  jeered.  &quot;Uncontent  with  being  a  dreamer  and  a  rover,  you're  a  masochist,  too.  My  psychiatrist  has  an  ugly  name  for  that!&quot;  &quot;You  don't  say,&quot;  I  returned,  inter-  ested.  &quot;W  hat  is  it?&quot;  &quot;Well,  I  forget,  actually,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;but  I'll  give  you  his  phone  number-  you  can  ask  him.&quot;  &quot;Gee,  that's  nice  of  you,  Roth,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Look  here,  I'd  like  toinscribe  one  of  my  books  for  you.&quot;  &quot;And  I  for  you,&quot;  he  said,  doing  so  and  handing  it  to  me.  &quot;Listen,  if  you're  going  uptown,  why  don't  we  split  a  cab?  After  all,  between  us  we  sold  a  couple  of  books  this  afternoon.&quot;  And  that,  plus  a  talk  we  had  about  girls  over  a  glass  of  tea  at  the  Belmore  Cafeteria,  is  the  sum  total  of  what  I  gleaned  from  patterning  myself  on  the  author  of  &quot;How  to  Make  Begging  Pay.&quot;  Well,  I  hope  his  manual  sells  like  hotcakes  in  Monza  and  never  gets  remaindered.  Because  if  the  silly  beggar  comes  around  to  me  for  sympathy,  I'll  tell  him  a  thing  or  two. "