 b"ON  a  stretch  of  road  far  from  [REDACTED]  and  not  yet  in  sight  of  [REDACTED],  Elena  suddenly  remarked  that  it  was  like  [REDACTED].  There  was  more  than  one  reason  for  this:  the  physical  loneliness  was  exactly  like  the  loneliness  she  had  experienced  when  visiting  [REDACTED],  in  the  country-  side  above  [REDACTED]  one  warm  muzzy  Saturday.  And  the  road  itself,  devoid  of  houses  or  tillage,  suggested  a  depop-  ulated  land.  Also,  the  high  grass  on  either  side  was  tawny-bleached  no  doubt  by  a  long  and  phenomenally  dry  English  summer.  The  bridges  that  flanked  the  motorway  were  ugly  and  graceless,  and  they,  too,  reminded  her  of  that  other  time.  Her  son  Ian,  who  was  driving,  said  that  any  minute  they  would  see  the  spires  of  [REDACTED].  She  had  never  seen  [REDACTED]  before,  and  already  her  mind  ran  on  to  the  stout  walls,  the  stained-glass  windows,  and  an  overall  atmosphere  of  studiousness.  She  was  excited.  She  envisioned  going  into  her  hotel  bedroom  and  drawing  the  cur-  tains-they  would  be  dark  red,  and  once  they  were  drawn  she  would  click  on  a  light  and  sit  in  an  armchair  to  read  some  Jane  Austen  in  order  to  rediscover  through  that  woman  reserve  and  perseverance.  Ian,  her  youngest  son,  was  going  up  to  [REDACTED]  and  she  was  facing  a  predicament  she  had  read  about  in  novels-that  of  a  divorced  woman,  bereft  of  her  children,  having  to  grow  old  without  these  beloved  props,  hav-  ing  in  some  way  to  take  the  first  step  into  loneliness  as  if  she  were  a  toddler  again.  T  wo  signposts  gave  the  same  mile-  age  for  [REDACTED],  even  though  they  were  miles  apart,  and  she  said  that  that  was  typical,  then  instantly  decided  that  she  was  becoming  a  shrew.  Soon  maybe  she  would  be  questioning  bills,  talking  to  her-  self,  and  finding  fault  with  any  work  that  was  done  on  her  house  in  [REDACTED].  To  save  face,  she  called  Tan's  attention  to  the  beauty  of  a  fairly  or-  dinary  little  village,  in  which  she  point-  ed  out  a  post  office,  an  alehouse,  some  wee  cottages,  and  an  antique  shop.  They  parked  just  outside  Cam-  bridge,  because  it  was  against  univer-  sity  rules  for  undergraduates  to  have  cars.  They  walked  the  rest  of  the  way  to  Ian's  college,  carrying  baskets  of  books  and  clothing,  a  record-player,  a  drawing  board,  a  lantern,  a  bedside  lamp,  and  a  picnic  hamper  with  wine,  pork  fillets,  and  cheese.  Her  hotel  was  C  OF  DARKNESS  across  the  road  from  the  college,  but  it  was  not  what  she  had  imagined.  The  entrance  adjoined  the  car  park,  and  in  the  huge  lobby  there  were  arrows  pointing  to  several  bars.  Then  there  was  hammering  to  testify  that  con-  struction  was  in  progress.  Would  it  stop  at  night?  She  had  trouble  sleep-  ing  andhad  requested  a  quiet  room.  She  was  obsessed  with  noise  and  could,  she  believed,  be  wakened  by  an  air  bubble  in  a  water  pipe  at  night.  She  followed  the  porter  down  a  long  corridor  and  then  was  dismayed  to  find  that  he  had  lost  his  way.  It  was  a  big,  ramshackle  place,  with  various  flights  of  stairs  leading  to  different  wings.  Her  bedroom  was  on  the  second  floor,  and  just  outside,  in  the  hall,  was  a  child's  crib  and  a  single  mattress  standing  on  end.  The  room  was  everything  she  dreaded-a  single  bed  with  a  stained  orange  coverlet,  curtains  to  match,  a  plastic  lampshade,  and  a  wardrobe  with  three  metal  hangers  that  moved  slightly  as  if  propelled  by  some  shiver.  The  one  service  bell  brought  no  re-  sponse-no  buxom  girl,  no  doddering  old  man,  no  housekeeper  with  a  moth-  erly  smile  came  in  answer  to  her  press-  ing  of  the  green  oblong  button.  There  was  no  way  of  telling  if  it  was  discon-  nected-or  if,  in  fact,  a  bell  had  rung  somewhere  in  the  bowels  of  that  place  and  was  being  ignored  with  a  shrug.  Bad  place  to  die,  she  thought,  and  as  fervently  as  she  had  longed  for  the  novelty  and  repose  ofthat  little  room  she  now  longed  to  be  out  of  it  and  safely  home.  She  wanted  tea.  Her  stockings  were  damp.  On  their  walk  from  the  car,  it  had  begun  to  drizzle,  and  now  it  was  raining  heavily.  Lifting  the  curtain,  she  looked  at  the  spatters  as  they  crawled  down  the  windowpane  and  lodged  on  the  frame  beneath.  The  view  was  of  a  football  field,  empty  except  for  its  goalposts.  She  would  make  the  best  of  it.  In  the  lobby,  the  guests  were  being  served  tea  and  everything  about  them  suggested  not  an  academic  life  but  a  life  of  commerce.  She  had  to  step  over  bags  bursting  with  packages,  and  at  first  glance  every  mouth  seemed  to  be  allied  to  a  piece  of  oily  chocolate  cake.  She  sat  waiting  for  service  at  the  one  empty  table,  and  in  her  restlessness  began  to  eat  the  bits  of  damp  ribbony  lettuce  that  had  served  as  decoration  on  the  plate  of  sandwiches  that  the  pre-  vious  occupants  had  devoured.  A  waiter  strolled  across  and  caught  her  in  this  infantile  theft.  She  asked  him  to  bring tea  quickly,  as  she  was  dining  at  seven.  He  spurned  her  to  her  face;  he  also  spurned  the  entire  human  race,  and  did  both  of  these  offices  in  broken  English.  LENA  and  Ian  had  been  asked  to  dine  at  one  of  the  most  esteemed  colleges,  and  with  the  other  guests  they  forgathered  in  a  small,  overheated  sit-  ting  room  that  was  full  of  furniture  and  cabinets  of  china.  Their  host,  a  professor,  had  invited  a  younger  profes-  sor  and  two  upperclassmen.  They  sat  and  awkwardly  searched  each  other's  faces,  pondering  what  tosay.  The  young  men  laughed  lightly  at  every-  thing,  constantly  interjecting  bits  of  French  as  they  bantered  with  each  other  about  their  sleeping  habits  or  their  taste  for  sherry  or  classical  music.  It  was  stiff.  Her  son  should  have  had  a  different  introduction,  something  much  less  formal.  The  conversation  centered  for  a  long  time  on  a  professor  who  had  a  woman's  name  as  a  nickname  and  who  received  students  in  his  long  johns  and  thought  nothing  of  it.  He  was  described  as  a  hermit,  even  though  he  seemed  to  receive  students  most  morn-  ings  in  his  room.  It  was  to  be  an  early  dinner.  They  went  down  a  short  flight  of  stairs  and  then  climbed  some  more  steps  to  the  little  dining  room.  The  host  had  done  everything  to  make  it  perfect.  There  was  smoked  salmon,  grouse,  Chantilly,  different  wines  for  each  course,  and  the  entire  menu  printed  alongside  each  person's  place  card.  The  old  servant  who  attended  them  was  so  nervous  that  he  trembled  as  he  stood  over  her  and  kept  debating  with  his  long  hands  whether  to  proffer  the  entr\xc3\xa9e  or  the  gravy  jug.  It  was  touch  and  go.  His  master  told  him  for  God's  sake  to  put  the  jug  down.  When  he  did,  the  move-  ment  caused  the  flesh  of  his  neck  to  tremble  like  that  of  a  half-dead  cock-  erel.  Yes,  someone  was  saying,  it  was  true  that  students  were  sent  down,  but  they  had  to  be  awfully  bad  or  else  awfully  unlucky,  and  of  course  it  was  an  awful-  ly  amusing  thing.  I  am  in  an  English  play,  she  thought,  the  kind  of  play  that  portrays  an  intelligent  man  or  woman  going  to  seed  and  making  stoical  jokes  about  it.  She  thought  of  the  word  &quot;bar-  barian&quot;'  and  sucked  it  as  if  it  were  a  bonbon.  The  grouse  on  her  plate  was  impos-  sible  to  wrest.  Everyone  talkedtoo  much  and  tried  too  eagerly  and  was  determined  to  be  considerate,  Little  bright  jets  of  blood  shot  up  as  knives  vainly  attacked  the  game.  To  conceal  his  embarrassment,  the  young  professor  " b"said  it  was  too  delicious.  The  host  said  his  was  uneatable  and  if  Freddie's  was  delicious  to  give  it  to  Elena,  since  hers  was  like  leather.  She  demurred,  said  it  was  lovely,  and  at  the  same  time  re-  solved  that  she  would  eatthe  sprouts  and  would  drink  goblets  of  wine.  A  toast  was  raised  to  her  son,  and  he  went  scarlet  as  he  heard  himself  being  praised.  Looking  down,  she  saw  that  each  plate  containeda  heap  of  little  bones,  decked  with  bits  of  torn  pink  flesh,  and,  true  to  her  domestic  instinct,  she  said  they  would  make  good  broth,  those  leavings.  A  most  tactless  slip.  Everyone  raved  over  the  nice  raspberry  Chantilly,  and  presently  quite  huge  portions  of  it  rested  on  the  young  men's  dessert  plates.  Since  they  had  dined  so  early,  she  felt  it  was  appropriate  to  leave  early.  During  dinner,  her  host  had  confessed  to  being  tired,  and  yet  in  his  bedroom,  where  they  had  come  together  to  fetch  her  coat,  she  felt  that  he  wanted  to  talk,  that  he  was  avid  to  tell  some  lit-  tle  thing.  He  said  that  he  had  never  married  because  he  could  not  stand  the  idea  of  a  woman's  saying  &quot;we,&quot;  or-  ganizing  his  thoughts,  his  time,  his  suits  of  clothing,  and  his  money.  It  was  a  small,  functional  room,  with  a  washstand  and  an  iron  bed  with  a  frayed  Paisley  robe  laid  across  it.  On  the  wall  was  a  painting  of  a  wolf  with  a  man's  eyes,  and  she  thought,  This  professor  is  not  as  mild  as  he  seems.  On  an  impulse,  she  kissed  him,  and  he  seemed  so  childishly  glad  that  she  then  became  awkward  and  tripped  over  a  footstool.  UT  on  the  street,  she  and  Ian  lingered,  admiring  the  court-  yard,  the  stone  archways,  and  the  beautiful  formidable  entrance  of  the  college.  The  town  itself  was  just  shops  and  shut  caf\xc3\xa9s,  with  cars  whizzing  up  and  down  as  on  any  High  Street.  At  the  hotel  she  bade  Ian  good  night  and  knew  that  the  hour  had  come  when  they  were  parting  more  or  less  forever.  They  made  light  of  it  and  said  they  would  sightsee  the  next  day.  As  she  approached  her  bedroom,  she  heard  loud  music,  and  she  began  to  remonstrate  with  herself,  began  to  laugh.  The  music  was  surely  phantom  music,  because,  after  all,  she  had  been  insistent  about  reserving  a  quiet  room.  But  as  she  proceeded  down  the  cor-  ridor  the  sound  increased  in  volume  and  pitch  and  she  wondered  if  anxiety  could  play  such  a  thorough  trick.  When  she  put  the  key  in  her  door  and  entered,  the  furniture  was  shaking  from  the  noise  and  she  looked  instinc-  tively  for  men  with  oily  hair  and  wear-ing  white  dinner  jackets,  which  was  how  she  imagined  a  dance  band.  She  called  the  desk.  Yes,  the  night  clerk  said,  a  dance  was  in  progress.  He  could  do  nothing,  was  not  even  sympathetic.  The  metal  hangers  that  she  had  for-  borne  using  were  almost  doing  a  jig.  She  took  herkey  and  went  down-  stairs,  then  crossed  the  street  to  the  college  where  her  sonwas.  At  the  gate,  the  porter  directed  her  to  her  son's  room.  He  seemed  to  sense  her  dismay,  because  he  kept  repeating  the  instructions,  kept  saying,  &quot;If  you  walk  down  now  toward  the  rectangular  buildings,  and  take  the  first  turning  on  the  left,  you  will  find  your  son  will  be  the  fifth  staircase  along,  and  you  will  find  him  there.&quot;  Walking  along,  she  thought  only  of  the  sleep  that  would  knit  up  &quot;the  ravel'd  sleave  of  care&quot;  and  hoped  that  in  one  of  those  build-  ings  a  bed  awaited  her-a  bed,  an  eiderdown;  and  total  silence.  Coming  toward  her  was  a  young  man  wearing  a  leather  motorcycle  " b"jacket  that  was  too  small  for  him.  Something  about  the  way  he  walked  reminded  her  of  a  motorcycle  gang  she  had  once  seen  in  an  American  film,  and  of  how  they  went  out  at  night  to  have  fights  with  other  gangs.  She  won-  dered  who  this  boy  might  be,  thought  that  probably  he  had  put  on  the  jacket  to  give  himself  an  image,  that  he  was  looking  for  friends  or  for  a  fight.  Four  or  five  hundred  young  men  were  now  installed  in  the  college,  and  she  thought  of  the  friendships  that  would  ensue,  of  the  meals  they  would  all  eat,  the  gowns  they  would  buy,  the  loves  and  hatreds  that  would  flourish.  She  was  glad  not  to  be  one  of  them.  Just  before  the  figure  came  level  with  her,  she  realized  that  it  was  Ian  and  that  he  was  going  in  search  of  adventure.  She  lost  heart  then  and  could  not  tell  him  of  her  plan  to  find  a  bed  in  his  college.  She  pre-  tended  at  first  not  to  know  him,  walked  past  with  one  hip  thrust  out  and  in  an  affected  voice  said,  &quot;Haven't  we  met  somewhere?&quot;  Then  she  asked  him  if  he  was  settling  in,  and  he  said  yes,  but  he  always  said  yes  at  awkward  moments.  They  walked  toward  the  gate,  and  he  said  that  his  name  was  painted  at  the  foot  of  his  landing-his  and  three  other  names-and  that  he  had  a  little  kitchen  witha  fridge  and  there  was  a  note  informing  him  of  a  maid  who  would  be  at  his  service  on  the  Monday.  How  she  wanted  to  be  that  maid.  They  said  good  night  again,  this  time  a  little  more  gamely,  since  there  was  a  mutual  suspicion  that  they  might  meet  a  second  time.  In  the  hotel  lobby,  some  people  had  come  out  from  the  dance,  and  a  drunk  woman  was  holding  up  a  broken  silver  shoe  and  asking  if  the  heel  could  be  mended.  When  Elena  asked  him  how  long  the  dance  would  go  on,  the  night  clerk  said  till  two.  Elena  feltlike  cry-  ing.  He  asked  if  she  would  like  another  hotel  and  she  said  yes,  then  ran  to  her  room  and  packed  things  quickly,  vi-  ciously.  In  the  lobby  yet  again,  she  felt  herself  to  be  conspicuous,  what  with  half  her  belongings  falling  out  of  the  bag  and  a  look  on  her  face  of  madness.  In  the  taxi,  she  thought  of  warm  milk  laced  with  whiskey.  Vain  thought.  The  porter  in  the  new  hotel  was  fast  asleep  and  stirred  himself  only  when  the  Dal-  mation  watchdog  bared  his  teeth  at  her  legs,  which  she  quickly  shielded  with  her  su\xc3\xa9de  bag.  She  had  to  pay  there  and  then,  and  had  to  writethe  check  by  balancing  the  book  against  the  wall,  as  the  counter  space  was  taken  up  with  timetables,  circulars,  and  postcards.  The  last  train  for  [REDACTED]  had  left  an  hour  before.  She  followed  the  porter  down  the  corridor  and  let  out  a  shriek  when  he  admitted  her  to  a  room  in  which  a  shocked  woman  sat  up  in  bed  and  screamed.  In  fact,  their  screams  coincided.  &quot;Sorry  about  that,  Madam,&quot;  the  porter  said.  At  last,  he  conducted  her  to  an  empty  room  that  was  weirdly  identical  to  the  one  she  had  just  va-  cated.  He  said  not  to  open  the  window,  in  case  of  burglary.  The  single  bed  was  so  narrow  that  each  time  she  tried  to  turn  over  she  had  to  stop  herself  from  falling  to  the  floor.  The  tap  in  the  little  sink  let  out  in-  voluntary  groans,  and  now  and  then  the  Dalmatian  gave  a  moan.  She  put  her  black  cardigan  over  the  telephone  to  blot  out  its  faint  luminescent  glow.  She  was  fighting  for  sleep,  She  took  two  large  two-toned  capsules  that  were  filled  with  barbiturate.  Where  was  her  son  now?  Had  he  met  a  friend?  Were  they  tucking  into  the  pork  fillets  and  the  cheese  already?  She  missed  him  and  wished  it  were  Christmas.  She  could  feel  the  sleeping  pill  start-  ing  to  work  as  she  put  her  hand  out  to  assist  herself  in  turning  over.  Never-  theless,  she  tumbled,  fell,  and  conked  her  head  on  the  bedside  locker.  The  last  slim  route  to  sleep  was  closed.  It  was  a  question  of  waiting  till  morning,  so  she  dressed  and  then,  grappling  with  anger,  paced  the  room.  As  she  paced,  a  sign  above  the  sink's  mirror  caught  her  attention.  The  sign  was  hand-lettered  and  it  said,  &quot;In  the  hours  of  darkness,  if  a  client  has  an  urgent  need  will  he  or  she  please  ring  and  wait  because  due  to  security  the  night  porter  may  be  prowling  the  building  and  not  find  himself  adjacent  to  the  switchboard.&quot;  She  took  the  sign  down,  reread  it  with  amazement,  then  wrote,  &quot;You  must  be  joking,&quot;  and  signed  her  name,  &quot;Elena  McBride.&quot;  Then  she  sank  into  the  creaky  arm-  chair  and  waited  stoutly  for  morning.  "