 b"OUT  the  main  road  a  half  mile  from  the  center  of  town,  past  the  last  church,  burger  joint,  and  funeral  home,  there's  a  right  turn  you  might  not  see  that  leads  to  Me-  morial  Field.  It's  a  short,  straight,  bumpy  road,  and  after  the  last  game  at  night  (there  are  two  games  a  night,  four  nights  a  week,  five  months  of  the  year)  this  road  becomes  a  thunderous  avalanche  of  Barracudas,  G.T.O.s,  Javelins,  Challengers,  Hondas,  Harleys,  Cougars,  Vettes,  pickups,  Furys,  Darts,  choppers,  and  various  aging  muscle  cars  as  the  players  and  spectators  come  dragging  out  of  the  parking  lot.  Head-  lights  are  pale  in  the  swirling  dust.  Ar-  riving  is  a  different  matter.  A  good  time  is  around  six-thirty,  when  the  sun  is  not  too  high  above  the  trees.  Find  a  place  to  park  down  behind  left  field,  then  walk  up  the  grassy  slope  toward  the  whistling,  catcalls,  clapping,  cheers.  GETrinc  4  I  HE  bleachers  are  made  of  heavy  wooden  planks,  and  there  are  three  levels  to  choose  from.  The  high-  est  one  is  about  the  right  height  to  put  your  elbows  on,  if  you  prefer  to  stand  at  the  back  rather  than  settle  down.  Each  level  has  an  accompanying  plank  a  little  in  front  and  below,  to  put  your  feet  on.  Some  spectators  like  to  put  their  feet  on  the  seatin  front  of  them;  this  not  only  permits  the  stretching  of  one's  legs  but  gives  one  a  mild  yet  agreeable  sense  of  occupying  more  ter-  ritory,  of  being  what  you  might  call  a  two-seat  person-a  bit  of  grandeur  along  with  the  comfort.  Some  people  never  settle  down.  Small  children  run  up,  down,  and  along  the  bleachers,  us-  ing  the  spectators  as  obstacles.  A  lonely  old  man  keeps  shifting  from  one  place  to  another,  seeking  congenial  conver-  sation  and  company;  when  the  re-  sponses  begin  to  lag,  he  moves.  The  best  place  to  sit  is  close  to  third;  it  has  everything.  You  are  in  the  cen-  ter  ofthe  bleachers;  you  are  deep  in  the  social  life  of  the  spectators;  you  can  hear  the  talk  between  the  third-  base  coach  and  the  runner;  you  can  see  the  infield  clearly,  and  the  outfield,  and  you  have  a  splendid  view  of  the  sunset  above  the  woods  behind  right  field.  And  once  in  a  while,  to  keep  you  alert,  &quot;4    there  will  bea  wild  throw  to  third,  and  as  the  runner  slides  and  the  third  baseman  leaps,  the  ball  will  come  right  at  you.  All  things  considered,  sit  behind  third.  Hicx  Four  HIGH  foul  soars  out  ofthe  field  on  a  crazy  trajectory,  then  be-  gins  its  swift  descent  toward  the  park-  ing  area.  Suspense:  the  crowd  waits.  .  A  loud  metallic  THUMP  as  it  hits  a  (somebody  else's?)  car.  Laughter  from  the  fans.  BEAUTIFUL  GiRL  HERE'S  a  beautiful  girl  in  the  stands  tonight.  Perhaps  she's  nine-  teen  or  twenty.  Long  hair,  T-shirt,  worn  jeans.  Her  face  is  fine,  the  bones  superb,  but  the  perfect  order  of  her  features  contrasts  with  an  anarchy  of  manner.  Her  eyes  are  vague;  her  speech  is  sluggish.  She  is  with  another  girl,  two  boys;  she  holds  a  brown  paper  bag  containing  an  open  bottle  of  wine.  Every  few  minutes,  she  takes  a  drink.  &quot;I  haven't  had  any  food  today,&quot;  she  remarks.  &quot;All  day.&quot;  She  counts  some  loose  change  in  her  hand.  &quot;Let's  go  to  New  York,&quot;  she  says.  Srow  \xe2\x80\x98PITCH  HIS  is  slow-pitch  softball.  The  pitch  sails  upward  in  a  leisurely  are  and  crosses  the  plate  on  the  way  down.  The  mildness  of  the  pitch  means  several  things  to  the  temper  ofthe  game:  almost  all  the  batters  will  hit  the  ball  (strikeouts  are  rare,  and  so  are  walks);  nobody  can  get  beaned;  there  will  be  little  pressure  on  the  pitchers  forprecision  work  (just  get  it  over  the  plate-with  a  little  spin,  of  course-  and  let  the  fielders  do  the  rest);  and  it  gives  the  evening  an  easiness,  a  gracious  quality,so  that  no  single  pitch  or  hit  or  inning  seems  too  important.  The  game,  in  fact,  is  not  crucial,  either,  since  there  are  so  many  games.  One  way  or  another,  the  next  game  will  be  differ-  ent.  It  comes  down,  then,  to  the  eve-  ning,  to  the  sunset,  and  the  people;  a  good  time  in  a  good  place;  the  chance  ofa  breeze.  Trams  ONIGHT,  Nick's  Seafood  is  playing  Four  Star  Tavern.  There  are  eight  or  ten  teams  that  play  here,  perhaps  more;  each  team  has  its  own  identity  and  style,  and  some  have  their  own  special  shirts.  The  unifying  fac-  tor  on  a  team,  however,  is  the  com-  mon  age  of  its  players,  and  this  is  seen  through  (a)  the  size  of  the  stomach,  and  (b)  the  hairstyle.  The  former  is  " b"simple  and  self-evident  (the  older  the  player  the  bigger  the  pot),  but  the  lat-  ter  is  more  complicated.  The  oldest  teams-men  in  their  forties-have  late-  nineteen-forties  and  early-fifties  Vitalis  Style,in  which  the  top  central  portion  of  the  hair  is  combed  laterally  across  the  skull,  while  the  frontmost  cowlick  is  combed  backward,  atright  angles  to  the  rest.  (This  requires  two  hands  to  execute  properly:  one  hand,  using  a  comb,  sweeps  backward  over  the  other  hand,  which  is  placed  flat  across  the  cranium;  this  flat  hand  pushes  forward  as  the  comb  pushes  back,  and  the  result  of  these  counterpressures  is  a  dramatic  frontal  crest  perhaps  an  inch  and  a  half  in  height.)  Other  styles  include  the  Butch,  or  Flattop,  which  indicates  ex-  treme  age,  or  Last  Gasp  at  Sports;  Standard  Long  Hair  (Four  Star  Tav-  ern  members  wear  this,  and  they  come  mostly  from  one  or  two  of  the  high-  school  baseball  teams  of  the  late  nine-  teen-sixties);  and  556e6974656420537461746573Super-  Styled  Hair-moderately  long  and  expensively  sculpted-which  is  pop-  ular  with  teams  in  their  mid-to-late  thirties.  DoNnALD  THE  SCOREKEEPER  DONALD  is  a  celebrity  in  the  seventh  grade,  and  probably  the  richest  kid  around.  He  is  purported  to  have  earned  three  hundred  dollars  last  sea-  son.  He's  the  league  scorekeeper,  and  he  sits  in  a  special  booth  high  up  be-  hind  home  plate.  For  those  in  the  sev-  enth  grade,  and  others,  there  is  only  one  way  to  see  the  ballgame:  it's  to  be  invited  by  Donald  to  join  him  up  in  the  scorekeeper's  box.  Ture  Furies  SCATTERED  through  the  bleach-  ers  are  unescorted  middle-aged  women  with  fierce,  strident  voices-  harridans  who  shriek  at  the  players  and  at  the  ump.  They  also  cheer  their  fa-  vorites,  but  it  is  their  abuse  that  is  heard  most  clearly.  They  punctuate  their  con-  tempt  with  mild  scatology  when  atten-  tion  flags,  and  they  tell  the  teams  what  to  do,  when,  and  how.  Their  voices  reach  like  claws  to  the  farthest  part  of  the  outfield.  A  player  selected  for  their  scorn  is  pursued  everywhere,  and  can-  not  escape.  Experts  INCE  the  difference  between  an  out  and  a  home  run  is  generally  just  a  matter  of  a  few  yards  in  the  vi-  cinity  of  the  high  wire  fence  in  the  out-  field,  it  takes  a  practiced  eye  to  predict,  as  the  ball  begins  its  climb  over  the  in-  field,  how  successful  it  will  be.  There  are  those  who  gasp,  cheer,  clap,  or  shriek  as  the  hit  unfolds-only  tosee  it  drop  intothe  waiting  glove  a  mo-  ment  later.  The  experts  have  barely  noted  its  passing;  they  check  the  catch,  but  coldly;  they  have  no  commitment  to  a  mere  pop  fly.  Yet  they  know  the  real  thing  from  the  instant  thebat  con-  nects,  and  they  murmur,  &quot;That's  gone.&quot;  MortnErR  A  PLUMP  young  mother  whose  child  is  rolling  in  the  dirt  with  other  kids  behind  the  stands  waves  her  can  of  beer  and  calls  across  the  bleach,  ers  to  a  friend;  she  describes  a  recent  victory  over  a  nosy  neighbor.  &quot;Last  night,  I  come  home  around  twelve-  thirty,  you  know,  and  I  ring  her  door-  bell.  I  ring  and  ring,  and  finally  she  comes  down  the  stairs  in  her  wrapper,  and  she  opens  the  door  a  little  crack,  you  know.  'Who  is  it?'  she  says.  It's  me,'  I  says,  'I'm  home.  &quot;  The  mother  laughs-the  spectators  seated  between  her  and  her  friend  smile  politely,  or     pretend  they  didn't  hear  the  story-  and  drinks  her  beer  and  chuckles  to  herself.  WreatHrer  Report  IT  is  still  very  hot.  The  sun  is  below  the  treetops.  The  mosquitoes  are  here-fat,  indolent,  vicious.  It  is  not  enough  to  put  bug  spray  on  your  face,  neck,  arms,  and  ankles;  you  must  get  a  light  coating  from  head  to  toe.  To  these  mosquitoes,  a  shirt  is  merely  a  challenge.  Ourcast  N  older  player,  built  like  a  tub,  has  been  pitching  for  Nick's  Seafood,  and  poorly;  he  walks  yet  another  man,  the  bases  fill  up,  and  he  curses  the  um-  pire.  He  shouts  at  him  that  the  calls  are  wrong,  the  ump  can't  see,  isn't  smart,  doesn't  know  anything-and  suddenly  he  throws  his  glove  across  the  infield.  The  ump,  his  dignity  in-  creasing  in  proportion  to  the  pitcher's  rage,  instructs  him  to  leave  the  game.  The  pitcher  rants,  then  starts  to  leave;  stops,  shouts  imprecations,  starts  to  leave  again.  He  makes  jerky  progress,  trying  to  insure  that  he  departs  with  maximum  respect-but  he  stalls  too  long.  Had  he  simply  cursed  the  ump  and  marched  away,  he  might  have  re-  tained  the  sympathy  of  the  crowd,  but  in  protesting  overlong  he  lost  the  role  of  victim  and  became  merely  a  sore-  head.  The  crowd  is  jeering  now.  He  marches  down  toward  the  parking  area.  Moments  later,  he  reappears,  holding  a  beer.  He  goes  to  the  bleach,  ers,  and  starts  to  yell  again.  The  ump  ignores  him  fora  while,  then  orders  him  to  leave  entirely:  Get  out.  The  scene  has  moved  beyond  ritual  to  ug-  liness.  The  former  pitcher  mutters  a  remark  or  two,  making  it  clear  that  he  is  leaving  of  his  own  free  will,  that " b"exile  is  his  choice.  He  swaggers  away,  beer  in  hand,  deaf  to  disapproval.  Tur  OTHER  FiEuD  OT  far  away-past  center  field-  is  a  Babe  Ruth  Field.  There,  if  you  wander  over  to  take  alook  be-  tween  games,  you'll  see  hardball,  played  by  kids  in  uniform.  The  crowd  is  different  here:  it's  parents,  watching  their  children  and  judging  them,  meas-  uring  them  against  the  other  children.  The  uniforms  are  snappy,  and  the  score  and  the  batter  and  who's  on  deck  are  all  announced  over  a  loud  p.a.  system.  There's  even  a  snack  bar  behind  the  stands.  No  hot  cars  or  choppers  parked  over  here;  no  longhairs,  no  beer,  no  rednecks,  no  drunks,  no  dope  smokers,  no  harridans-the  atmosphere  is  bland  and  joyless,  The  parent  watches  grimly  as  the  son  strikes  out,  drops  the  fly,  boots  the  grounder.  TrouBLE  HERE  is  trouble  behind  the  bleachers  at  the  slow-pitch  field.  Murmurs.  Furtive  looks.  Who?  What?  A  large,  livid  man  is  restrained  by  friends,  Loud  threats.  A  second  man  is  backing  away.  What  is  it'  No-  body  knows.  Somebody  knows.  Mo-  ments  pass.  A  single-no,  a  double  play.  Where  is  he  now?Over  there.  Three  outs.  More  whispers.  Somebody  comes  strolling  back  from  the  cars.  What's  happening?  Information  ar-  rives  slowly,  creeping  like  a  vine  through  the  stands.  What?  Who?  It  seems  ...  Oh.  She  did?  ...  Oh...  The  intelligence  is  repeated,  altered,  enhanced,  distorted,  made  lurid,  passed  on.  His  wife  has  been  messing  around,  and  he's  going  to  kill  the  bastard.  Right  now.  Heads  turn,  gazing  at  the  man.  Would  he?  Yes,  he  looks  as  though  he  would.  And  could.  He  might.  Withinmoments,  a  police  car  arrives,  and  then  another  police  car.  One  state,  one  local.  The  angry  man  is  being  coerced  into  the  local  car.  The  second  man  has  drifted  off.  The  cop  is  talking  to  the  angry  man.  'They  sit  side  by  side  in  the  front  seat.  Friends  lean  in  the  window,  also  talking.  The  game  goes  on.  A  single  to  right,  two  outs.  The  next  time  people  look,  the  police  cars  are  gone.  The  man  is  gone.  Last  Inninos  HE  sun  has  set;  they  have  turned  on  the  lights  for  the  last  innings.  The  players  move  in  a  haze;  it  seems  to  slow  things  down.  The  spectators  are  in  no  hurry  to  leave.  Who  knows?  There  may  be  a  colossal  hit,  a  fantastic  catch,  a  perfect  throw  -these  are  a  kind  of  acupuncture,  mysterious  but  familiar,  cancelling  out  for  a  while  the  distant  pain,  the  blistered  heart,  the  re-  lentless  longing,  the  unhealing  wound  that  waits.  When  the  game  is  done  and  the  lights  are  off,  the  field  will  vanish,  the  fences  disappear,  darkness  will  flow  in  once  more,  and  thecars  will  growl  and  snarl  at  the  night.  It's  the  top  of  the  ninth.  Smack  goes  thebat;  pop  goes  the  beer  can.  Laughter  and  cheers  crackle  through  the  stands.  The  heat  that  would  never  end  is  dying,  and  now  ...  look  at  the  trees  ...  there  ...  yes  ...  feel  that?  ...  A  breeze.  "