 b"THIS  infamous  man,  this  atro-  cious  torturer,  this  felonious  criminal  maniac,  this  abscess  on  the  loin  of  civilization,  this  V.I.P.  This  mystery  man,  this  subjugator  incomprehensibly  vile,  whom  I  have  killed  a  thousand  times  in  my  dreams.  Whom  the  people  call  RatExcrement  and  Dog  Scum.  Whom  they  call  Signor  X.  I  heard  that  he  nevergave  inter-  views.  That  he  would  see  me  and  then  kill  me  and  swallow  my  cassettes.  For  this  reason  I  was  afraid.  For  this  rea-  son  I  was  brave.  Finally  he  was  walking  toward  me,  acrossthe  lobby  of  the  Hotel  Om-  nipotente,  in  Rome.  God,  the  man  is  not  good-looking!  'The  shrunken  goat's-testicle  of  a  face.  The  hands,  smeared  as  I  had  been  told  they  would  be  with  infants'  blood,  each  bloated  finger  a  worm  in  the  heart  of  human  reasonableness.  Yes,  I  thought,  he  is  smaller  than  I  expected.  They  are  al-  ways  smaller  than  one  expects.  Let's  put  it  this  way:  our  interview  was  not  charming.  It  was  a  malady  that  was  alwaysgoing  ahead  toter-  mination.  Do  you  know  the  sound  of  a  wrecker's  ball  smashing  an  archi-  tectural  treasure  of  Western  Europe?  His  voice  was  like  that.  But  I  don't  really  want  to  disparage  the  allure-  ments  of  talking  to  a  scourge  and  ig-  noramus  of  the  type  that  Signor  X  rep-  resents  all  too  vividly.  He  seemed  sincere.  Sitting  opposite  him  in  the  cre-  puscular  lobby  of  the  Omnipotente,  with  my  tape  recorder-accompanist  to  history-whispering  its  absurdist  sibi-  lants,  I  couldn't  help  thinking,  Ah,  if  only  he  could  desist  from  his  sins,  we  could  have  such  a  damned  good  time  together!     Q.  I'm  wondering  if  you  can  ex-  plain  your  behavior,  Signor  X.  A.  I  don't-  Q.  Not  so  fast,  Signor  X.  Signor  X,  I  have  to  admit  I  am  a  little  surprised  by  your  precipitousness.  Do  you  really  believe  it's  possibleto  explain  away  and  so  hastily,  at  that-the  infinite  ex-  cruciations  you  have  inflicted?  A.  Excruciations?  What  excrucia-  tions?  Q.  Signor  X,  forgive  me  if  I  retain  a  capacity  for  moral  outrage.  Perhaps  I  seem  infantile.  Or  simply  noxious.  I  hate  to  be  noxious,  especially  since  you've  been  so  punctual,  since  you've  bought  me  an  eperitivo  and  so  forth,     but  I  have  in  mind,  for  instance,  the  time  you-  A.  I  know  what  you  are  going  to  say,  and  it's  completely  untrue.  Baste!  I  don't  have  to  endure  these  questions,  these  vilifications,  these  reproaches,  which  are  reported  so  often  and  ad  infinitum  in  your  newspaper.  Q.  Con  permesso,  Signor  X,  are  you  or  are  you  not  a  Fascist  hyena?  A.  Of  course  not!  Don't  be  silly!  What  a  calumny!  Do  I  look  like  a  hyena?  Q.  I  think  you  do,  Signor  X.  It  frightens  you  to  hear  that-yes,  it  frightens  you.  A.  Nothing  frightens  me.  For  me,  it's  not  at  all  a  question  of  fear.  Q.  Very  well.  We  don't  have  to  bicker.  A.  The  main  question  can  be  ad-  duced  from  one  point.  I  am  a  father.  Italians  like  that.  Italians  like  fathers-  Carlo  Ponti,  the  Holy  Father,  and  so  on.  Maybe  the  father  isn't  always  such  a  good  father,  maybe  he  is  a  despot  and  so  forth,  but  he's  in  the  right.  In  short,  a  father.  Q.  Yes,  yes,  but  tell  me  this:  If  I  drove  slivers  of  bamboo  under  your   fingernails  and  forced  you  to  choose  between  having  a  coffee  with  Jesus  Christ  and  having  a  coffee  with  Hit-  ler,  which  would  you  choose?  A.  It's  obvious,  neither  one.  But  why  do  you  have  these  fantasies  of  persecuting  me?  'The  thought  is  fa-  ther  to  the  deed,  when  all's  said  and  done.  Yet  am  I  such  a  bad  man?  Q.  Shall  we  say  I'm  wondering,  Signor  X,  if  you  are  a  happy  man.  Are  you  a  happy  man,  Signor  X?  A.  Happy?  Dio  mio,  little  girl,  let's  be  realistic.  For  one  moment  let's  get  something  straight.  Happiness  is  the  father  of  unhappiness.  Q.  How  many  times  you  keep  re-  turning  to  this  word  &quot;father,&quot;  Signor  X.  One  would  almost  say  you  have  had  that  word  on  the  brain  during  this  interview!  A.  So  are  we  finished  so  soon?  Now  let  me  ask  you  one  question.  Q.  As  you  like.  A.  Why  don't  you  come  to  Sunday  dinner  anymore?  Q.  Well,  uh  ...I've  been  busy.  After  all,  fighting  imperialism  with  these  interviews  isn't  the  least  rigorous  job.  But  as  for  dinner,  yes,  I'll  try.  A.  Thank  you.  Q.  Thank  you,  Signor  X.  Thank  you  very  much,  Daddy.  "