 b"ONE  of  the  things  I've  done  since  last  year,  when  I  got  my  di-  vorce,  is  to  expand  my  hori-  zons.  I  have  gone  through  a  period  of  rapid  personal  growth.  This  has  had  nothing  to  do  with  exterior  circum-  stances.  As  before,  I  live  at  the  Keowa  Motel  and  take  my  meals  in  my  room.  The  growth  I'm  talking  about  is  crea-  tive  growth,  interior  growth,  the  kind  that  counts.  I  have  learned  to  focus  my  energy.  You  may  not  be  familiar  with  the  Arica  Training.  I  am.  In  the  Arica  Training  one  learns  the  concept  of  &quot;chich.&quot;  &quot;Chich&quot;  is  zoise-the  in-  terior  distractions  that  keep  us  from  focussing  our  energy.  I  strive  now  to  reduce  the  &quot;chich&quot;  in  my  life.  One  way  I  do  this  is  by  staying  in  bed.  On  many  days  I  choose  to  stay  in  bed  for  the  whole  day.  What  I  do  is  Istay  in  bed  and  concentrate  onone  thing.  I  focus  my  energy.  On  one  recent  day  I  stayed  in  bed  and  focussed  my  energy  on  &quot;humidity.&quot;  'This  resulted  in  my  resolving  a  long-standing  conflict.  I  feel  completely  in  touch  now  with  the  &quot;hu-  midity&quot;  of  my  living  space,  which  is  important  to  me  because  the  Keowa  Motel  is  incredibly  damp  all  the  time,  with  one  thousand  little  molds  growing  everywhere  and  small  drops  of  mois-  ture  condensing  on  the  cinder-block  walls-out  of  nowhere  condensing,  merging,  running  down  the  walls  to  the  damp  floor,  and  so  on.  I  have  done  more  than  just  learn  to  focus  my  energy.  It  would  be  false  modesty  not  to  mention  that  I  have  founded  a  major  dance  company-The  Jack  Duff  Dance  Experience  (I  am  Jack  Duff).  The  Jack  Duff  Dance  Experience  is  devoted  to  Movement.  The  Jack  Duff  Dance  Experience  seeks  to  transcend  the  limits  of  Dance,  as  Dance  has  been  defined  by  conven-  tional,  institutionalized  dance  groups.  Let  me  try  to  make  this  more  imme-  diate.  Right  now.  Right  now  I  am  lift-  ing  my  left  leg.  There.  My  left  leg  is  off  the  ground.  Now  my  left  leg  re-  turns  (slowly)  to  a  position  close  to  its  original  position  butnot  coincident  wit  it.  This  has  been  what  The  Jack  Duff  Dance  Experience  calls  a  VM,  or  Valid  Movement.  Even  in  the  Keowa  Motel  (where  The  Jack  Duff  Dance  Experi-  ence  is  currently  headquartered)  it  is  possible  to  complete  hundreds  of  VMs  in  the  course  of  a  single  afternoon.  Very  often  I  spend  my  day  in  Valid  Movement.  Sometimes,  by  contrast,  I  spend  my  day  observing  the  little  molds  that  grow  in  the  damp  corners  of  my  rehearsal  space.  Either  way,  I  call  the  shots  around  here.  There  is  a  rehearsal  this  afternoon.  My  friend  Bob  is  coming  over.  I  have  made  Bob  a  full  partner  in  The  Jack  Duff  Dance  Experience-not  in  the  sense  of  stock  and  so  forth,  which  I  retain,  but  in  the  sense  that  I  invite  him  to  rehearsals.  He  has  beenslow  to  understand  the  implications  of  his  own  movements,  I'm  afraid,  but  I  will  be  patient.  He  hasa  very  nice  shuffle  step  (the  result  of  an  injury  sustained  on  an  icy  stoop),  which  nicely  complements  my  own  lack  of  balance.  So  far,  I  have  had  to  trick  Bob  into  developing  his  talent  for  Valid  Movement.  Sometimes,  feigning  weariness,  I  ask  him  to  get  the  beer  from  the  icebox.  (My  suite  at  the  Keowa  is  a  housekeeping  unit,  as  you  will  have  guessed.)  Under  the  impres-  sion  that  he  is  doing  me  a  favor,  he  shuffles  over  to  the  little  icebox  and  shuffles  back  with  the  Genesee.  En-  tirely  valid,  and  justified,  as  all  great  movement  must  be,  by  purpose.  At  the  end  of  rehearsal,  Bob  and  I  fall  asleep  in  our  chairs.  S$  part  of  my  ongoing  personal  growth,  I  am  making  plans  for  the  future.  I  am  planning,  for  instance,  to  build  up  a  new  and  more  meaning-  ful  wardrobe,  from  scratch.  In  mak-  ing  my  plans  I  have  been  very  much  influenced  by  the  New  York  Times  Magazine  and  by  an  expensive  soft-  cover  book  entitled  &quot;Laid-Back  Luxe.&quot;  My  cousin  Charles  (who  went  to  Wes-  leyan)  had  his  picture  in  the  Times  Magazine  not  long  ago.  He  was  pho-  tographed  wearing  an  embroidered  coat  from  [REDACTED]  while  picking  out  a  head  of  Bibb  lettuce  at  a  downtown  vegetable  market.  The  caption  under  this  picture  explained  that  my  cousin  Charles  was  an  &quot;amateur  gourmet.&quot; My  cousin  Charles  wrote  a  little  bit  of  text,  and  this  appeared  next  to  the  captioned  picture.  It  would  be  difficult  to  reproduce  Charles'  style  in  para-  phrase,  so  Iwill  reproduce  it  word  for  word.  He  wrote:  Weekdays  I  feel  very  Brown  Shoe,  very  coat-and-tie.  I  still  have  a  Glenur-  quhart  plaid  suit  1  bought  at  The  An-  dover  Shop  at  New  Haven,  and  I  wear  it  once  a  week,  religiously.  But  weekends  are  different.  1  call  them  my  &quot;Me  Days.&quot;  I  wear  a  mix  of  whatever-old  flannels,  the  crazy  coat  I  got  in  [REDACTED]  (I  liked  myself  in  [REDACTED]),  and  I  do  what's  right  for  me.  I  have  great  respect  for  my  cousin  Charles.  I  especially  like  the  way  he  has  managed  to  imply  that  he  went  to  Yale.  For  a  number  of  years  now,  my  cousin  Charles  has  done  all  his  errands  in  New  Haven.  He  drives  from  New  York  to  New  Haven  to  do  all  his  er-  rands.  He  gets  his  bridgework  done  in  New  Haven,  for  instance,  and  then  when  the  subject  of  teeth  comes  up  he  says,  &quot;Do  you  know,  I  still  go  to  my  old  dentist  in  New  Haven-isn't  that  silly?&quot;  This  technique,  over  the  years,  has  been  strangely  effective.I  feel  that  Cousin  Charles  is  now  beginning  to  im-  ply  that  he  went  to  Andover.  Although  my  cousin  Charles  has  been  a  big  influence  on  me  since  my  divorce,  although  he  has  made  me  see  the  importance  of  setting  aside  certain  periods  of  time  jwst  for  me  and  my  own  personal  style,  he  has  not  had  quite  the  effect  of  Maria  Atris,  the  author  of  &quot;Laid-Back  Luxe.&quot;  Maria's  favorite  person  is  a  man  named  Riccardo  Tus-  cani,  who  does  exactly  as  he  pleases.  She  writes:  Riccardo  is  a  space  salesman  for  an  important  advertising  agency,  and  also  a  film  critic  of  great  wit  and  distinction.  Ask  Riccardo  to  drinks  one  day  and  he'll  arrive  4  la  Valentino  in  gaucho  garb;  see  him  for  lunch  the  next  day  and  he'll  be  dressed  head  to  toe  in  leather,  like  a  male  hustler.  Riccardo  likes  to  break  things  (vases,  glasses,  desk  sets-any-  thing  that  seems  obnoxiously  self-im-  portant  and  fragile),  and  he  will  often  appear  with  shards  and  fragments  of  broken  objects  stuck  raffishly  in  his  lapel.  Thanks  to  my  divorce  and  one  or  two  other  failures,  I  am  learning  to  express  myself  in  my  dress.  More  and  more  I  am  coming  out  of  my  shell.  I  am  learning  that  clothes  can  relate  to  Valid  Movement,  and  I  am  planning  to  design  an  entire  Valid  Wardrobe  to  express  my  own  feelings  about  the  in-  teraction  of  body,  body  covering,  and  body  environment.  I  am  thinking  about  ways  in  which  body  coverings  can  fa-  " b"cilitate  and  enhance  the  processes  of  tripping  and  falling  down,  for  instance.  SOMETIMES,  though,  in  spite  of  my  new  focussed  energy  and  my  new  dance  company  and  my  new  plans  for  my  new  wardrobe,  I  find  my-  self  experiencing  slight  problems  of  adjustment.  Sometimes  Ifind  myself  resenting  the  molds  in  my  rehearsal  space,  Sometimes  I  find  myself  eager  to  throw  my  ex-wife  down  a  flight  of  stairs.  And  sometimes  I  find  myself  wishing  something  terrible  would  hap-  pen  to  my  children.  Terrible,  I  said  not  fatal.  And  not  an  accident.  Noth-  ing  where  my  ex-wife  could  nurse  them  round  the  clock  and  buy  them  fuzzy  bears  to  cheer  them  up.  I  have  in  mind  something  more  subtle,  like-  well,  like  a  drug  problem.  I  think  if  my  children  had  a  drug  problem  I  would  have  to  go  to  be  with  them  myself,  even  if  it  meant  postponing  or  cancel-  lingthe  inaugural  season  of  The  Jack     Duff  Dance  Experience.  IfI  sacri-  ficed  my  inaugural  season  my  children  would  be  touched,  I  think,  and  would  give  up  their  drug  problem  in  gratitude.  But  these  problems  of  adjustment  are  minor.  They  are  no  match  for  my  new  inner  strength.  Already  I  am  mak-  ing  plans  for  the  second  season  of  The  Jack  Duff  Dance  Experience.  I  have  planned  several  series-of-related-move-  ments.  One  of  the  important  series-of-re-  lated-movements  planned  for  the  sec-  ond  season  will  deal,  in  a  nonpro-  grammatic  way,  with  my  rug  at  the  Keowa  Motel.  What  interests  me  is  the  way  my  rug  strives  to  express  its  identity  (and  its  growing  awareness  of  its  strength  as  a  rug)  in  modes  that  challenge  traditional  norms.  My  rug,  when  you  get  right  down  to  it,  really  refuses  to  function  as  a  floor  covering.  Like  my  ex-wife,  my  rug  wants  to  exist  in  a  nonjudgmental  atmosphere.  &quot;I  am  not  here  to  meet  your  expecta-  &gt;     tions'&quot;-that's  what  my  rug  says  to  me.  I  have  learned  from  my  rug.  Just  now,  on  the  way  into  my  rehearsal  space  from  my  icebox  space  while  execut-  ing  a  complicated  Valid  Movement,  I  chanced  to  drop  my  beer  glass.  My  beer  glass  landed  on  one  of  those  patches  of  floor  that  my  rug  now  declines  to  protect.  My  beer  glass  shattered,  and  instead  of  giving  in  to  the  old  tiresome  drop-spill-mop-up  guilt,  I  think  I  will  take  the  fragments  of  broken  beer  glass  and  stick  them  raffishly  into  my  T-shirt  and  then  lie  down  on  the  floor  and  learn  to  relateto  the  spillage.  "