 b"WHEN  I  was  twelve,  my  cous-  in  Roger  drowned  in  Lake  Independence,  and  my  mother  enrolled  me  in  a  swimming  class  at  the  Y.M.C.A.  on  La  Salle  Avenue,  in  downtown  [REDACTED].  Twice  a  week  for  most  of  June  and  July,  I  got  on  the  West  River  Road  bus  near  our  home  in  [REDACTED]  Park  township,  a  truck-farming  community  north  of  [REDACTED],  and  rode  into  the  stink  and  heat  of  the  city,  and  when  I  rounded  the  corner  of  Ninth  Street  and  La  Salle  and  smelled  the  chlorine  air  that  the  building  breathed  out  I  started  to  feel  afraid.  After  a  week,  I  couldn't  bear  the  swimming  class  anymore.  Never  before  had  I  stood  naked  among  strangers  (the  rule  in  the  class  was  no  swimming  trunks),  and  it  was  loathsome  to  undress  and  then  walk  quickly  through  the  showers  to  the  pool  and  sit  shivering  on  the  cold  tiles  along  the  edge  with  my  feet  dangling  in  the  water  (Absolute  Silence,  No  Splashing)  and  wait  forthe  dread  moment.  The  instructor-a  man  in  his  early  twenties,  who  was  tanned  and  had  the  smooth  muscles  of  a  swimmer  (he  wore  trunks)-had  us  plunge  into  the  pool  one  at  a  time,  so  that  he  could  give  us  his  personal  at-  tention.  He  strode  up  and  down  the  side  of  the  pool  yelling  at  those  of  us  who  couldn't  swim,  while  we  thrashed  hopelessly  beneath  him  and  tried  to  look  like  swimmers.  &quot;You're  walking  on  the  bottom!&quot;  he  would  shout.  &quot;Get  your  legs  up!  What's  the  matter,  you  afraid  to  get  your  face  wet?  What's  wrong  with  you?&quot;  The  truth  was  that  my  cousin's  death  had  instilled  in  me  a  terriblefear,  and  when  I  tried  to  swim  and  started  to  sink  it  felt  not  so  much  as  if  I  was  sinking  but  as  if  something  was  pulling  me  down.  I  panicked,  every  time.  It  was  just  like  the  dreams  of  drowning  that  came  to  me  rightafter  Roger  died,  in  which  I  was  dragged  deeper  and  deeper,  with  my  body  bursting  and  my  arms  and  legs  flailing  against  nothing,  down  and  down,  until  I  shot  back  to  the  surface  and  lay  in  my  dark  bedroom  exhausted,  trying  to  make  myself  stay  awake.  I  tried  to  quit  the  swimming  class,  but  my  mother  wouldn't  hear  of  it,  so  I  continued  to  board  the  bus  every  swimming  morning,  and  then,  ashamed  of  myself  and  knowing  God  would  punish  me  for  my  cowardice  and  de-  ceit,  I  hurried  across  La  Salle  and  past  the  Y  and  walked  along  Hennepin  Avenue,  past  the  pinball  parlors  and  bars  and  shoeshine  stands,  to  the  old  Public  Library,  where  I  viewed  the  Egyptian  mummy  and  the  fossils  and  a  facsimile  of  the  Declaration  of  Inde-  pendence.  I  stayed  there  until  eleven-  thirty,  when  I  headed  straight  for  the  WCCO  radio  studio  to  watch  &quot;Good  Neighbor  Time.&quot;  We  listened  regularly  to  this  show  at  home-Bob  DeHaven,  with  Wally  Olson  and  His  Band,  and  Ernie  Gar-  vin  and  Burt  Hanson  and  Jeanne  Ar-  land-and  then  to  the  noontime  news,  with  Cedric  Adams,  the  most  famous  man  in  the  upper  [REDACTED].  It  amazed  me  to  sit  in  the  studio  audience  and  watch  the  little  band  crowded  against  the  back  wall,  the  engineers  in  the  darkened  booth,  and  the  show  people  gliding  up  to  a  microphone  for  a  song,  a  few  words,  or  an  Oxydol  commercial.  I  loved  everything  except  the  part  of  the  show  in  which  Bob  DeHaven  inter-  viewed  people  in  the  audience.  I  was  afraid  he  might  pick  me,  and  then  my  mother,  and  probably  half  of  Minne-sota,  would  find  out  that  I  was  scared  of  water,  and  a  liar  to  boot.  The  radio  stars  dazzled  me.  One  day,  I  squeezed  into  the  WCCO  elevator  with  Cedric  Adams  and  five  or  six  other  people.  I  stood  next  to  him,  and  a  sweet  smell  of  greatness  and  wealth  drifted  off  from  him.  I  later  imagined  Cedric  Adams  swimming  in  Lake  Minnetonka-a  powerful  whale  of  happiness  and  pur-  pose-and  I  wished  that  I  were  like  him  and  the  others,  but  as  the  weeks  wore  on  I  began  to  see  clearly  that  I  was  more  closely  related  to  the  bums  and  winos  and  old  men  who  sat  around  in  the  library  and  wandered  up  and  down  Hennepin  Avenue.  I  tried  to  look  away  and  not  see  them,  but  they  were  all  around  me  there,  and  almost  every  day  some  poor  ragged  creature,  filthy  drunk  at  noon,  would  stagger  at  me  wildly  out  of  a  doorway,  with  his  arms  stretched  out  towardme,  and  I  saw  a  look  of  fellowship  in  his  eyes:  You  are  one  of  us.  I  ran  from  them,  but  clearly  I  was  well  on  my  way.  Drinking  and  all  the  rest  of  the  bum's  life  would  come  with  time,  inevitably.  My  life  was  set  on  its " b"tragic  course  by  a  sinful  error  in  youth.  This  was  the  dark  theme  of  the  fun-  damentalist  Christian  tracts  in  our  home:  one  misstep  would  lead  you  down  into  the  life  of  the  infidel.  One  misstep!  A  lie,  perhaps,  or  disobedience  to  your  mother.  There  were  countless  young  men  in  those  tracts  who  stum-  bled  and  fell  from  the  path-one  mis-  step!-and  were  dragged  down,  like  drowning  men,  into  debauchery,  un-  belief,  and  utter  damnation.  I  felt  sure  that  my  lie,  which  was  repeated  twice  a  week  and  whenever  my  mother  asked  about  my  swimming,  was  sufficient  for  my  downfall,  Even  as  I  worked  at  the  deception,  I  marvelled  that  my  fear  of  water  should  be  greater  than  my  fear  of  Hell.  I  still  remember  the  sadness  of  wan-  dering  in  downtown  [REDACTED]  in  1954,  wasting  my  life  and  losing  my  soul,  and  my  great  relief  when  the  class  term  ended  and  I  became  a  kid  again  around  the  big  white  house  and  garden,  the  green  lawns  and  cool  shady  ravine  of  our  lovely  suburb.  A  weekend  came  when  we  went  to  a  lake  for  a  family  picnic,  and  my  moth-er,  sitting  on  the  beach,  asked  me  to  swim  for  her,  but  I  was  able  to  fool  her,  even  at  that  little  distance,  by  walking  on  the  bottom  and  making  arm  strokes.  When  I  went  to  a  lake  with  my  friends  that  summer,  or  to  the  Mis-  sissippi  River,  a  block  away,  I  tried  to  get  the  knack  of  swimming,  and  one  afternoon  the  next  summer  I  did  get  it--the  crawl  and  the  backstroke  and  the  sidestroke,  all  in  just  a  couple  of  weeks.  I  dived  from  a  dock  and  opened  my  eyes  underwater  and  everything.  The  sad  part  was  that  my  mother  and  father  couldn't  appreciate  this  won-  derful  success;  to  them,  I  had  been  a  swimmer  all  along.  I  felt  restored-  grateful  that  I  would  not  be  a  bum  all  my  life,  grateful  to  God  for  letting  me  learn  to  swim.  It  was  so  quick  and  so  simple  that  I  can't  remember  it  today.  Probably  I  just  stood  in  the  water  and  took  a  little  plunge;  my  feet  left  the  bottom,  and  that  was  it.  OW  my  little  boy,  who  is  seven,  shows  some  timidity  around  wa-  ter.  Every  time  I  see  him  standing  in  the  shallows,  working  up  nerve  to  put  his  head  un-  der,  I  love  him  more.  His  eyes  are  closed  tight,  and  his  pale  slender  body  is  tense  as  a  drawn  bow,  ready  to  spring  up  in-  stantly  should  he  start  to  drown.  'Then  I  feel  it  all  over  again,  the  way  I  used  to  feel.  I  also  feel  it  when  I  see  peo-  ple  like  the  imperial  swimming  instructor  at  the  Y.M.C.A.-power-  ful  people  who  delight  in  towering  over  some  lit-  tle  twerp  who  is  strug-  gling  and  scared,  and  casting  the  terrible  shad-ow  of  their  just  and  perfect  selves.  The  Big  Snapper  knows  who  you  are,  you  bastards,  and  in  a  little  while  he  is  going  to  come  after  you  with  a  fury  you  will  not  be-  lieve  and  grab  you  in  his  giant  mouth  and  pull  you  under  until  your  brain  turns  to  jelly  and  your  heart  almost  bursts.  You  will  never  recover  from  this  terror.  You  willrelive  it  every  day,  as  you  lose  your  fine  job  and  your  home  and  the  respect  of  your  friends  and  family.  You  will  remember  it  every  night,  in  your  little  room  at  the  Mis-  sion,  and  you  will  need  a  quart  of  Petri  muscatel  to  put  you  to  sleep,  and  when  you  awake  between  your  yellow-stained  sheets  your  hands  will  start  to  shake  all  over  again.  You  have  fifteen  minutes.  Get  changed. "