 b"WELCOME  back  aboard  the  Ludella  H!  Let's  cast  our  lures  into  the  deep  and  see  what  we  can  foul-hook.  Party  PoopEr  A  social  phenomenon  I  have  often  observed  in  my  twenty-six  years  as  a  charter-boat  captain  is  that  one  dogfish  can  spoil  a  mackerel  party.  The  most  inexpert  deep-sea  dunce,  using  a  mail-  order  rod  and  a  strip  of  tinfoil  for  bait,  can  slop  bushels  of  gregarious  and  fun-  loving  mackerel  into  his  scuppers,  yet  let  our  day-tripper  apprehend  but  a  single  dogfish  and  the  mackerel  will  take  their  trade  elsewhere.  Is  it  the  dogfish's  sharky  ways-his  habitof  ap-  pearing  uninvited  at  parties  and  de-  vouring  guests  at  random-that  make  him  the  pariah  of  marine  society?  No,  friends.  It  is  his  gloomy  expression  and  Calvinist  outlook  on  life.  The  truth  is  that  dogfish  have  no  sense  of  humor.  New  Museum?  Our  friend  Captain  Tyrone  Cul-  vert,  skipper  of  the  See  Slug  out  of  the  [REDACTED]  River,  has  decided  to  aban-  don  ship.  Ty's  business  has  been  de-  clining  since  the  early  sixties,  but  the  PCB  scare  has  just  about  cleared  the  once  crowded  decks  of  the  Sea  Slug.  &quot;'Time  [REDACTED];  says  Ty,  &quot;we  could  anchor  off  Consolidated  Edison  and  yank  more  mudhake  than  our  custom-  ers  could  carry.  Nowadays  ...  Well,  who  wants  to  bring  home  a  drug-  crazed  fish?&quot;  Down  but  not  out,  Ty  tells  us  he's  looking  for  an  investor  with  an  amusement-park  background.  Seems  Ty  has  an  option  to  buy  Bruce,  the  mechanical  terror  of  &quot;Jaws,&quot;  and  sees  the  boat-crusher  as  the  focal  point  of  a  briny  Madame  [REDACTED]'s.  Also  in  the  works:  effigies  of  Ted  Williams  dynamiting  tarpon  out  of  a  simulated  Everglades  shallow  and  Arthur  God-  frey  harpooning  a  flounder.  SPINOZA  It  was  Spinoza  who  compared  life  to  a  fishing  rod,  though  just  what  he  ex-  pected  to  gain  by  doing  so  has  never  been  satisfactorily  explained.  Party-Boat  EtiquUETTE  A  boor  is  a  boor,  whether  afloat  or  ashore.  Here  area  few  caveats  to  insure  that  you  return  from  your  next  charter  trip  with  your  features  intact:  Check  your  impulse  to  indulge  in  salty  vernacular,  especially  when  among  veteran  fisherpersons.  To  refer  to  the  TV  lounge  as  the  &quot;fo'c'sle&quot;  or  to  pronounce  &quot;halibut&quot;  as  &quot;habit&quot;  or  &quot;Hubert&quot;  is  to  invite  hard  looks  or  the  &quot;accidental&quot;  deep-sixing  of  your  beer  cooler.  Remember  the  bait  cutter.  A  cus-  tomer  who  has  received  good  service  should  demonstrate  his  gratitude  with  a  small  gift:  a  tallow  candle  makes  a  fine  keepsake,  or,  for  that  special  bait  cutter,  a  houndstooth  barbecue  apron.  Do  not  attempt  to  engage  crew  members  in  lengthy  discussions.  These  men  have  work  to  do,  so  be  considerate  and  confine  your  conversation  to  every-  day  topics,  such  as  crabgrass  control  or  how  to  forge  a  hairdresser's  diploma.  Finally,  remember  that  fishermen  are  a  superstitious  lot,  and  that  while  on  board  you  should  take  all  precautions  to  avoid  bad  luck.  This  does  not  mean  that  you  must  carry  a  rabbit's  foot  or  wear  a  chain  of  garlic  around  your  neck.  Most  sensible  fishermen  agree  thata  few  radishes  stuffed  in  a  gauze  reticule  and  worn  about  the  ankle  are  enough  to  ward  off  sludge,  surly  pilots,  and  other  marine  disasters.  Barr  or  Tur  WEEK  Raoul  Jarvis,  of  Essex,  [REDACTED],  has  begun  to  market  a  revolutionary  fishing  lure  called  the  Disco-Bait.  (Readers  will  recall  Raoul  as  the  cre-  ative  angler  who  lured  a  720-1b.  stur-  geon  into  the  torpedo  tube  of  the  U.S.S.  Browbeater  with  the  promise  ofa  Swedish  massage  and  a  steamed-clam  dinner;  see  the  Sept.  8,  1971,  issue  of  this  publication.)  Raoul's  device  con-  sists  of  a  swivel-mounted,  waterproof  cassette  tape-player  fitted  with  treble  hooks  and  fluorescent  pork-rind  streamers.  The  fisherman  has  only  to  insert  a  cassette,  pressa  button,  and  cast.  Raoul  reports  taking  a  43-lb.  striper  with  a  James  Brown  tape,  and  says  that  less  fashionable  fish,  such  as  sea  robin  and  skate,  reacted  favorably  to  the  music  of  Barry  White.  Disco-  Bait  retails  for  $79.95,  including  bat-  teries.  Txs  Sacren  Cop  In  the  State  of  [REDACTED],  the  codfish  is  revered  not  only  as  a  food-  stuff  but  as  a  source  of  political  wisdom.  In  fact,  a  wooden  codfish  hangs  in  the  State  House  on  Beacon  Hill,  and  the  number  of  legislators  who  spend  entire  sessions  staring  at  it  is  an  indication  of  the  great  influence  that  the  whiskered  statesman  of  the  deep  wields  in  state  affairs.  It  was  Governor  Endicott  En-  dicott  who  first  thrust  the  codfish  into  " b"political  prominence  by  hurling  a  smoked-cod  fillet  at  King's  Represen-  tative  Byron  Flintpocket  in  a  Tremont  Street  chowder  house,  in  1774.  Later,  codfish  were  regularly  elected  as  mem-  bers  of  the  Governor's  Council,  and  it  was  an  eight-pound  rock  cod  who  ad-  vised  Governor  Winthrop  Ipswich  to  change  his  first  name  to  Fulgencio.  Cod  have  always  been  a  part  of  Mas-  sachusetts  political  life.  To  be  sure,  there  have  been  attempts  to  discredit  the  species;  turn-of-the-century  mud-  slinger  Honey  Fudge  O'Leary  is  still  remembered  for  reviling  cod-liver  oil  as  &quot;an  insult  to  the  intelligence  of  the  voters  of  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED].&quot;  And  who  can  forget  [REDACTED]  Mayor  James  Michael  Curley  strolling  with  a  school  of  re-  porters  through  [REDACTED]  Common  with  his  loyal  hat-holder  wriggling  under  his  arm?  Or  Senate  galleries  packed  with  noisy  cod  during  state-fisheries  appro-  priations  hearings?  If  you  hook  a  cod  in  [REDACTED]  waters,  be  polite-he  might  have  important  friends.  Carram  HawsERr's  Economy  PAELLA  Seafood  lovers  who  bemoan  the  phe-  nomenal  rise  in  fish  prices  will  love  this  exciting  dish,  prepared  with  inexpensive  ingredients.  Obtain:  4  alewives  1  horseshoe  crab  1  Cap'n  Snow's  Seashore  Dinner  (remove  aluminum  tray)  1  bay  leaf  1  clump  rubber  grapes  Add  ingredients  to  five  gallons  boil-  ing  seawater.  Simmer  eight  hours.  Garnish  with  confetti  and  serve  in  cupped  hands.  Cram-Saw  Fin?  A  motion  has  been  presented  to  the  National  Institute  of  Marine  Nomen-  clature  at  [REDACTED]  which,  if  accepted,  would  rename  the  dreaded  sabre-  toothed  smelt.  The  proposed  new  name  is  &quot;chain-saw  fish,&quot;  but  whatever  one  calls  it  the  fact  remains  that  this  crea-  ture  is  surely  the  most  terrifying  and  loutish  marauder  to  have  appeared  in  marine  evolution.  The  sabretooth  is  renowned  in  literature.  The  poet  Vergil  tells  us:  Damp-footed  Aeneas  harrowed  the  waters  With  his  sword,  and  gouty  blood  c'erteem'd,  In  fierce  battle  the  mighty  sabre-  tooth  withal,  While  Dido  with  the  fishwife  of  Alexandria  Did  play  at  quoits.  ...  Piscine  scholar  Edgar  Guest  also  im-  mortalized  the  predator,  in  his  epic  poem  &quot;From  Flanders  Field  to  Fen-  way  Park&quot;  :  The  umpire  in  his  mask  is  an  ugly  man  Like  a  sabre-toothed  smelt  in  a  frying  pan.  These  lines  alone  argue  persuasively  against  the  Institute's  &quot;chain-saw&quot;  pro-  posal,  but  there  are  other  convincing  disquisitions  as  well,  such  as  William  Jennings  Bryan's  Cross  of  Smelt  speech  and  Clarence  Darrow's  summa-  tion  to  the  jury  in  the  [REDACTED]  Fish-  ball  Trial.  To  those  bold  enough  to  try  to  catch  a  sabretooth,  I  can  only  say  always  use  the  sturdiest  and  most  reliable  equip-  ment  you  can  lay  your  hands  on.  To  work  the  waters  where  the  sabretooth  is  found,  I  recommend  a  double-fas-  tened,  copper-bottomed  vessel,  such  as  my  father's  old  Impermeable  Bess,  and  I  also  suggest  that  the  angler  outfit  himself  with  steel-mesh  gauntlets.  Ex-  perts  agree  that  the  safest  way  to  at-  tract  the  fish  is  by  sprinkling  handfuls  of  diced  almonds  on  the  water  and  whispering  &quot;Papa  Hemingway,  Papa  Hemingway&quot;  into  a  hip  boot.  When  the  fish  break  the  surface,  they  may  be  dis-  patched  either  by  trolling  several  chain  saws  in  the  school's  midst  or  by  satu-  rating  the  area  with  suntan  lotion.  Above  all,  respect  the  sabretooth,  whether  alive  or  dead.  Just  two  weeks  ago,  a  sabretooth  mounted  in  sportsman  Buck  Hamster's  den  leaped  from  the  wall  and  savaged  a  TV  set.  Commc  Up  In  next  month's  newsletter  we  will  examine  the  dental  records  of  a  Medi-  terranean  sardine,  and  interior  de-  signer  Nikki  St.  George  will  tell  us  how  to  make  a  coffee  table  with  four  nails,  a  spool  of  twine,  and  the  pancreas  ofa  sea  trout.  Until  then,  good  luck  and  good  fishing!  "