 b"WHEN  first  I  wore  my  old  shako,&quot;  sang  Captain  Car-  dew,  &quot;Ten,  twenty,  thirty,  forty,  fifty  years  ago,&quot;  and  Phoebe  thought  what  a  wonderful  bass  voice  he  had.  This  was  the  second  time  he  had  called  to  take  her  fora  walk,  and  again  he  had  brought  her  a  large  box  of  chocolates.  Captain  Cardew  and  his  wife  were  spending  the  winter  of  1898  in  Ja-  maica,  when  they  visited  the  small  is-  land  of  Dominica  where  she  lived  and  found  it  so  attractive  and  unspoilt  that  they  decided  to  stay.  They  even  talked  of  buying  a  house  and  settling  there  for  good.  He  was  not  only  a  very  handsome  old  man  but  a  hero  who  had  fought  bravely  in  some  long-ago  war  which  she  thought  you  onlyread  about  in  history  books.  He'd  been  wounded  and  had  a  serious  operation  without  an  an-  esthetic.  Anesthetics  weren't  much  used  in  those  days.  (Better  not  think  too  much  about  that.)  It  had  been  impressed  on  her  how  kind  it  was  of  him  to  bother  witha  little  girl  like  herself.  Anyway,  she  liked  him;  he  was  always  so  carefully  polite  to  her,  treating  her  as  though  she  were  a  grownup  girl.  A  calm  unruffled  man,  he  grew  annoyed  only  if  people  called  him  &quot;Captain&quot;  too  often.  Some-  times  he  lost  his  temper  and  would  say  loudly  things  like:  &quot;What  d'you  think  I'm  Captain  of  now-a  penny-a-  liner?&quot;  What  was  a  penny-a-liner?  She  neverfound  out.  It  was  a  lovely  afternoon  and  they  set  out.  She  was  wearing  a  white  blouse  with  a  sailor  collar,  a  long  full  white  skirt,  black  stockings,  black  but-  toned  boots,  and  a  large  wide-brimmed  white  hat  anchored  firmly  under  her  chin  with  elastic.  When  they  reached  the  Botanical  Gardens,  she  offered  to  take  him  to  a  shady  bench  and  they  walked  slowly  to  the  secluded  part  of  the  Gardens  that  she'd  spoken  of  and  sat  under  a  large  tree.  Beyond  its  shadow  they  could  see  the  yellow  dancing  patches  of  sun-  light.  &quot;Do  you  mind  if  I  take  off  my  hat?  The  elastic  is  hurting  me,&quot;  Phoebe  said.  &quot;'Then  take  it  off,  take  it  off,&quot;  said  the  Captain.  Phoebe  took  off  her  hat  and  began  to  talk  in  what  she  hoped  was  a  grown-  up  way  about  the  curator,  Mr,.  Har-  court-Smith,  who'd  really  made  the  Gardens  as  beautiful  as  they  were.  He'd  come  from  a  place  in  England  called  the  Kew.  Had  he  ever  heard  of  it?  Yes  he  had  heard  of  it.  He  said,  &quot;How  old  are  you,  Phoebe?&quot;  &quot;I'm  twelve,&quot;  said  Phoebe,  &quot;-and  a  bit.&quot;  &quot;Ho!&quot;  said  the  Captain.  &quot;Then  soon  you'll  be  old  enough  to  have  a  lover!&quot;  His  hand,  which  had  been  lying  quietly  by  hisside,  darted  to-  ward  her,  dived  inside  her  blouse,  and  clamped  itself  around  one  very  small  breast.  &quot;Quite  old  enough,&quot;  he  re-  marked.  Phoebe  remained  perfectly  still.  He's  making  agreat  mistake,  a  great  mis-  take,  she  thought.  If  I  don't  move  he'll  take  his  hand  away  without  really  no-  ticing  what  he's  done.  However  the  Captain  showed  no  sign  of  that  at  all  He  was  breath-  ing  rather  heavily  when  a  couple  came  strolling  round  the  corner.  Calmly,  without  hurry,  he  withdrew  his  hand  and  after  a  while  said,  &quot;Perhaps  we  ought  to  be  going  home  now.&quot;  Phoebe,  who  was  in  a  ferment,  said  nothing.  They  walked  out  of  the  shade  into  the  sun,  and  as  they  walked  she  looked  up  at  him  as  though  at  some  aged  but  ageless  god.  He  talked  of  usual  things  in  ausual  voice,  and  she  made  up  her  mind  that  she  would  tell  nobody  of  what  had  happened.  No-  body.  It  was  not  a  thing  you  could  possibly  talk  about.  Also,  no  one  would  believe  exactly  how  it  had  happened,  and  whether  they  believed  her  or  not  she  would  be  blamed.  If  he  was  as  absentminded  as  all  that-for  surely  it  could  be  nothing  but  absentmindedness-perhaps  there  oughtn't  to  be  any  more  walks.  She  could  excuse  herself  by  saying  that  she  had  a  headache.  But  that  would  only  do  for  once.  The  walks  continued.  They'd  go  into  the  Gardens  or  up  the  Morne,  a  hill  overlooking  the  town.  There  were  benches  and  seats  there  but  few  houses  and  hardly  anybody  about.  He  never  touched  her  again,  but  all  through  the  long  bright  afternoons  Captain  Cardew  talked  of  love  and  Phoebe  listened,  shocked  and  fasci-  nated.  Sometimes  she  doubted  what  he  said:  surely  it  was  impossible,  horrify,  ingly  impossible.  Sometimes  she  was  on  the  point  of  saying  not  &quot;You  oughtn't  to  talk  to  me  like  this&quot;  but,  babyish-  ly,  &quot;I  want  to  go  home.&quot;  He  always  knew  when  she  felt  this  and  would  at  once  change  the  subject  and  tell  her  amusing  stories  of  his  life  when  he  was  a  young  man  and  a  subaltern  in  496e646961.  &quot;Hot?&quot;  he'd  say.  &quot;This  isn't  hot.  496e646961's  hot.  Sometimes  the  only  thing  to  do  is  take  off  your  clothes  and  see  that  the  punkah's  going.&quot;  Or  he'd  talk  about  [REDACTED]  long  ago.  Someone-was  it  Byron?-had  said  that  women  were  never  so  unat-  tractive  as  when  they  were  eating,  and  it  was  still  most  unfashionable  for  them  to  eat  heartily.  He'dwatch  in  wonder  as  the  ethereal  creatures  pecked  daint-  ily,  then  sent  away  almost  untouched  plates.  One  day  he  had  seen  a  maid  taking  atray  laden  withfood  up  to  the  bedrooms,  and  the  mystery  was  explained.  But  these  stories  were  only  inter-  vals  in  the  ceaseless  talk  of  love,vari-  ous  ways  of  making  love,  various  sorts  of  love.  He'd  explain  that  love  was  not  kind  and  gentle,  as  she  had  imagined,  but  violent.  Violence,  even  cruelty,  was  an  essential  part  of  it.  He  would  ex-  pandon  this;  it  seemed  to  be  his  favorite  subject.  The  walks  had  gone  on  for  some  time  when  the  Captain's  wife,  Edith,  who  was  a  good  deal  younger  than  her  husband,  became  suspicious  and  began  making  very  sarcastic  remarks.  Early  one  evening,  when  the  entire  party  had  goneup  the  Morne  to  watch  the  sun-  set,  she'd  said  to  her  husband,  after  a  long  look  at  Phoebe,  &quot;Do  you  really  findthe  game  worth  the  candle?&quot;  Captain  Cardew  said  nothing.  He  watched  the  sun  going  down  without  expression,  then  remarked  that  it  was  quite  true  that  the  only  way  to  get  rid  of  a  temptation  was  to  yield  to  it.  Phoebehad  never  liked  Mrs.  Cardew  very  much.  Now  she  began  to  dislike  her.  One  afternoon  they  were  in  a  room  together  and  Mrs.  Cardew  said,  &quot;Do  you  see  how  white  my  hair's  becoming?  It's  all  because  of  you.&quot;  And  when  Phoebe  answered  truthfully  that  she  didn'tnotice  any  white  hairs:  &quot;What  a  really  dreadful  little  liar  you  are!&quot;  After  this  she  must  have  spoken  to  Phoebe's  mother,  a  silent,  reserved  woman,  who  said  nothing  to  her  daughter  but  began  to  watch  her  in  a  puzzled,  incredulous,  even  faintly  sus-  picious  way.  Phoebe  knew  that  very  soon  she  would  be  questioned;  she'd  have  to  explain.  So  she  was  more  than  half  relieved     " b"when  Edith  Cardew  announced  that  they'd  quite  given  up  their  first  idea  of  spending  the  rest  of  the  winter  on  the  island  and  were  going  back  to  England  by  the  next  boat.  When  Cap-  tain  Cardew  said  &quot;Goodbye&quot;  formally  the  evening  before  they  left,  she  had  smiled  and  shaken  hands,  not  quite  re-  alizing  that  she  was  very  unlikely  ever  to  see  him  again.  HERE  was  a  flat  roof  outside  her  bedroom  window.  On  hot  fine  nights  she'd  often  lie  there  in  her  nightgown,  looking  up  at  the  huge  brilliant  stars.  She'd  once  tried  to  write  a  poem  about  them  but  not  got  beyond  the  first  line:  &quot;My  stars.  Familiar  jew-  els.&quot;  But  that  night  she  knew  that  she  would  never  finish  it.  They  were  not  jewels.  They  were  not  familiar.  They  were  cold,  infinitely  far  away,  quite  indifferent.  The  roof  looked  onto  the  yard  and  she  couldhear  Victoria  and  Joseph  talking  and  laughing  outside  the  pan-  try;  then  they  must  have  gone  away  and  it  was  quite  silent.  She  was  alone  in  the  house,  for  she'd  not  gone  with  the  others  to  see  the  Cardews  off.  She  was  sure  that  now  they  had  gone  her  moth-  er  would  be  very  unlikely  to  question  her,  and  then  began  to  wonder  how  he  had  been  so  sure  not  only  that  she'd  never  tell  anybody  but  that  she'd  make no  effort  at  all  to  stop  him  talking.  That  could  only  mean  that  he'd  seen  at  once  that  she  was  not  a  good  girl-  who  would  object-but  a  wicked  one-who  would  listen.  He  must  know.  He  knew.  It  was  so.  It  was  so,  and  she  felt  not  so  much  unhappy  about  this  as  uncomfortable,  even  dismayed.  It  was  like  wearing  a  dress  that  was  much  too  big  for  her,  a  dress  that  swallowed  her  up.  Wasn't  it  quite  difficult  being  a  wicked  girl?  Even  more  difficult  than  being  a  good  one?  Besides,  didn't  the  nuns  say  that  Chastity  in  Thought,  Word,  and  Deed  was  your  most  pre-  cious  possession?  She  remembered  Mother  Sacred  Heart,  her  second  fa-  vorite,  reciting  in  her  lovely  English  voice:  &quot;So  dear  to  Heaven  is  saintly  chastity  .  .  .&quot;  How  did  it  go  on?  Some-  thing  about  &quot;a  thousand  liveried  an-  gels  lackey  her.  ...&quot;  &quot;A  thousand  liveried  angels&quot;  now  no  more.  The  thought  of  some  vague  irreparable  loss  saddened  her,.  Then  she  told  herself  that  anyway  she  needn't  bother  any  longer  about  whether  she'd  get  married  or  not.  The  older  girls  that  she  knew  talked  a  great  deal  about  marriage;  some  of  them  talked  about  very  little  else.  And  they  seemed  so  sure.  No  sooner  had  they  put  their  hair  up  and  begun  going  to  dances  than  they'd  marry  someone  handsome  (and  rich).  Then  the  fun  of  being  grownup  and  important,  of  doing  what  you  wanted  instead  of  what  you  were  told  to  do,  would  start.  And  goon  for  a  longlong  time.  But  she'd  always  doubted  if  this  would  happen  to  her.  Even  if  numbers  of  rich  and  handsome  young  men  sud-  denly  appeared,  would  she  be  one  of  the  chosen?  If  no  one  ever  marries  me-  And  I  don't  see  why  they  should-  For  nurse  says  I'm  not  pretty  And  I'm  seldom  very  good.  ...  Well  there  was  one  thing.  Now  she  felt  very  wise,  very  grownup,  and  she  could  forget  these  childish  worries.  She  could  hardly  believe  that  only  a  few  weeks  ago  she,  like  all  the  others,  had  secretly  made  lists  of  her  trousseau,  decided  on  the  names  of  her  three  children:  Jack.  Marcus.  And  Rose.  Now  goodbye  Marcus.  Goodbye  Rose.  The  prospect  before  her  might  be  difficult  and  uncertain,  but  it  was  far  more  exciting. "