 b"EVERY  night  Mrs.  Reinhardt  sleepwalked  and  every  night  her  journey  led  to  a  fresh  surprise.  First,  it  was  that  she  saw  sheep-not  sheep  as  one  sees  them  in  life,  a  bit  sooty  and  bleating  away,  but  sheep  as  one  sees  them  in  a  dream.  She  saw  myriads  of  white  fleece  on  a  hilltop,  surrounded  by  little  lambs  frisking  and  suckling  to  their  hearts'  content.  Then  she  saw  pictures  such  as  she  had  not  seen  in  life.  Her  husband  owned  an  art  gallery  and  Mrs.  Rein-  hardt  had  the  opportunity  to  see  many  pictures,  yetthe  ones  she  saw  at  night  were  much  more  satisfying.  For  one  thing,  she  was  inside  them.  She  was  not  an  outsider  looking  in,  making  idiotic  remarks,  she  was  part  of  the  picture:  an  arm  or  a  lily  or  the  gray  mane  of  a  horse.  She  did  not  have  to  compete,  did  not  have  to  say  anything.  All  her  movements  were  preordained.  She  was  simply  aware  of  her  own  breath,  a  soft,  steady  breath.  In  the  mornings,  her  husband  would  say  she  looked  a  bit  frazzled  or  a  bit  intense,  and  she  would  say,  &quot;Non-  sense,&quot;  because  in  twenty  years  of  mar-  riage  she  had  never  felt  better,.  Her  sleeping  life  suited  herand,  of  course,  she  never  knew  what  to  expect.  Her  daily  life  had  a  pattern  to  it.  Weekday  mornings  she  spent  at  home,  helping  or  supervising  Fatima,  the  Spanish  maid.  She  gave  two  afternoons  a  week  to  teaching  autistic  children,  two  after-  noons  were  devoted  to  an  exercise  class,  and  on  Fridays  she  shopped  in  Harrods  and  got  all  the  groceries  for  the  week-  end.  Mr.  Reinhardt  had  bought  a  farm  a  short  while  before,  and  weekends  they  spent  in  the  country,  in  their  newly  renovated  cottage.  In  the  country,  she  did  not  sleepwalk,  and  Mrs.  Reinhardt  wondered  if  it  might  be  that  she  was  inhibited  by  the  barbed-wire  fence  that  skirted  their  garden.  But  there  are  gates,  she  thought,  and  I  should  open  them.  She  was  a  little  vexed  with  her-  self  for  not  being  more  venturesome.  Then,  one  May  night,  back  in  her  house  in  [REDACTED],  she  had  an  incredible  dream.  She  walked  over  a  field  with  her  young  son-in  real  life,  he  was  at  University-and  all  of  a  sudden,  and  in  unison,  the  two  of  them  knelt  down  and  began  scraping  the  earth  up  with  their  bare  hands.  It  was  a  rich  red  earth  and  easy  to  crumble.  They  were  so  eager  because  they  knew  that  treas-  ure  was  about  to  be  theirs.  Sure  enough,  they  found  bits  of  gold,  tiny  specks  of  it,  which  they  put  in  a  hand-  kerchief,  and  then  to  crown  her  hap-  piness  Mrs.  Reinhardt  found  the  love-  liest  little  gold  key,  and  held  it  up  to  the  light  while  herson  laughed  and  in  a  baby  voice  said,  &quot;Mama.&quot;  Soon  after  this  dream,  Mrs.  Rein-  hardt  embarked  on  a  bit  of  spring  clean-  ing.  Curtains  and  carpets  for  the  dry  cleaners,  drawers  emptied  of  all  theold  useless  odds  and  ends  that  had  been  piling  up.  Her  husband's  clothing,  too,  she  must  put  in  order.  A  little  rift  had  sprung  up  between  them  and  was  wid-  ening  day  by  day.  He  was  moody.  He  got  home  later  than  usual  and,  though  he  did  not  say  so,  she  knew  that  he  had  stopped  at  the  corner  and  had  a  few  drinks.  Once  that  spring  he  had  pulled  her  down  beside  him  on  the  living-room  sofa  and  stroked  her  thighs  and  started  to  undress  her  within  hearing  distance  of  Fatima,  who  was  in  the  kitchen  chop-  ping  and  singing.  Always  chopping  and  singing  or  humming.  For  the  most  part,  though,  Mr.  Reinhardt  went  straight  to  the  liquor  cabinet  and  gave  them  both  a  gin,  pouring  himself  a  bigger  one  be-  cause,  as  he  said,  all  her  bloody  fast-  ing  made  Mrs.  Reinhardt  light-headed.  She  was  sorting  Mr.  Reinhardt's  garments-  T-shirts,  summer  sweaters,  thick  crew-neck  sweaters-and  putting  them  each  in  a  neat  pile,  when  out  of  his  seersucker  jacket  there  tumbled  a  little  gold  key  that  caused  her  to  let  out  a  cry.  The  first  thing  she  felt  was  a  jet  of  fear.  Then  she  bent  down  and  picked  it  up.  It  was  exactly  like  the  one  in  her  sleepwalk.  She  held  it  in  her  hand,  promising  herself  never  to  let  it  go.  HAT  fools  we  are  to  find  in  daylight  what  we  should  leave  for  nighttime.  Her  next  sleepwalking  brought  Mrs.  Reinhardt  out  of  her  house  into  a  waiting  taxi  and,  some  distance  away,  to  a  mews  house.  Out-  side  the  mews  house  was  a  black-and-  white  tub  filled  with  pretty  flowers.  She  simply  put  her  hand  under  a  bit  of  foliage,  and  there  was  the  latchkey.  Inside  was  a  little  nest.  The  wallpaper  in  the  hall  was  the  very  one  she  had  always  want-  ed  for  their  house,  a  pale  gold  with  the  tiniest  white  flow-  ers-mere  suggestions  of  flow-  ers,  like  those  of  the  wild  strawberry.  The  kitchen  was  immaculate.  On  the  landing  upstairs  she  could  see  that  there  was  a  little  fretwork  bench.  The  cushions  in  the  sitting  room  were  stiff  and  stately,  and  so  was  the  upholstery.  But  the  bedroom-ah,  the  bed-  room.  It  was  everything  she  had  ever  wanted  their  own  to  be.  In  fact,  the  bedroom  was  the  very  room  she  had  envisaged  over  and  over  again  and  had  described  to  her  husband  down  to  the  last  detail.  Here  it  was-a  brass  bed  with  a  little  lace  canopy  above  it,  the  entire  opposite  wall  a  dark  metallic  mirror  in  which  dark  shadows  " b"seemed  to  swim  around,  a  light-  blue  velvet  chaise  longue,  a  hang,  ing  plant  with  shining  leaves,  and  a  floor  lamp  with  a  brown-  fringed  shade  that  gave  offthe  softest  of  light.  She  sat  on  the  edge  ofthe  bed,  marvelling,  and  saw  the  other  things  that  she  had  always  want-  ed.  She  saw,  for  instance,  the  photo  of  a  little  girl  in  First  Com-  munion  attire;  she  saw  the  paper-  weight  that  when  shaken  yielded  a  miniature  snowstorm;  she  saw  the  mother-of-pearl  tray  with  the  two  champagne  glasses-and  all  of  a  sudden  she  began  to  crybe-  cause  her  happiness  was  so  im-  mense.  Perhaps,  she  thought,  he  will  come  to  me  here,  he  will  vis-  it,  and  it  will  be  like  the  old  days  and  he  won't  be  irritable  and  he  won't  be  tapping  with  his  fingers  or  fiddling  with  the  clasp  of  his  foun-  tain  pen.  He  will  smother  me  with  hugs  and  kisses  and  we  will  tumble  about  on  thebig  bed.  She  sat  there  in  the  bedroom  and  she  touched  nothing-not  even  the  two  white  irises  in  the  tall  glass  vase.  The  litle  key  was  in  her  hand  and  she  knew  it  was  for  the  wardrobe  and  that  she  had  only  to  open  it  to  find  there  a  nightdress  with  a  pleated  top,  a  voile  dance  dress,  a  silver-fox  cape,  and  a  pair  of  sling-back  shoes.  But  she  did  not  open  it.  She  wanted  to  leave  some-  thing  a  secret.  She  crept  away  andwas  home  in  her  own  bed  without  her  hus-  band's  being  aware  of  her  absence.  He  had  complained  on  other  occasions  about  her  cold  feetas  she  got  back  into  bed,  and  asked  what  in  Christ's  name  was  she  doing-making  tea  or  what?  That  morning,  her  happiness  was  so  great  that  she  leaned  over,  unknotted  his  pajamas,  and  made  love  to  him  very  sweetly,  very  slowly,  and  to  his  apparent  delight.  Yet  when  he  wak-  ened  he  was  angry,  as  if  a  wrong  had  been  done  him.  ATURALLY,  Mrs.  Reinhardt  now  went  to  the  mews  house  night  after  night,  and  her  heart  would  light  up  as  she  saw  the  pillar  of  the  house  with  its  number,  10,  lettered  in  gold  edged  with  black.  The  nought  was  a  little  slanted.  Sometimes  she  got  into  the  brass  bed  and  she  knew  it  was  only  a  question  of  time  before  Mr.  Reinhardt  followed  her  there.  One  night,  as  she  lay  in  the  bed,  a  little  breathless,  he  came  in  very  softly,  closed  the  door,  removed  his  dressing  gown,  and  took  possession  of  herwith  such  a  force  that  afterward  she  sus-pected  she  had  a  broken  rib.  They  used  words  that  they  had  not  used  for  years.  She  was  young  and  wild.  A  lovely  fever  took  hold  of  her.  She  was  saucy  while  he  kept  imploring  her  to  please  marry  him,  to  please  give  up  her  in-  dependence,  to  please  be  his-adding  that  even  if  she  said  no  he  was  going  to  whisk  her  off.  Then,  to  prove  his  point,  he  took  possession  of  her  again.  She  almost  died,  so  deep  and  so  thor-  ough  was  her  pleasure,  and  each  time,  as  she  came  back  to  her  senses,  she  saw  some  little  object  or  trinket  that  was  intended  to  add  to  her  pleasure-once  it  was  amobile  in  which  silver  horses  chased  one  another  around,  once  it  was  a  sound  as  of  a  running  stream.  He  gave  her  some  champagne  and  they  drank  in  utter  silence.  But  when  she  wakened  from  this  idyll  she  was  in  fact  in  their  own  bed  and  so  was  he.  She  felt  mortified.  Had  she  cried  out  in  her  sleep?  Had  she  moaned?  There  was  no  rib  broken.  She  reached  for  the  hand  mirror  and  saw  no  signof  wantonness  on  her  face,  no  tossed  hair,  and  the  buttons  of  her  nightdress  were  neatly  done  up  to  the  throat.  He  was  a  solid  mass  of  sleep.  He  opened  his  eyes.  She  said  something  to  him,  something  anxious,  but  he  did  not  reply.  She  gotout  of  bed  and  went  down  to  the  sitting  room  to  think.  Where  would  it  all  lead  to?  Should  she  tell  him?  She  thought  not.  And  any-  how  was  she  walking  out  of  her  house  each  night  into  a  taxi  or  was  she  just  dreaming  it?  Who  would  believe  her?  Not  he.  All  morning  she  tried  the  key  in  different  locks,  but  it  was  too  small.  In  fact,  once  she  nearly  lost  it  because  it  slipped  into  a  lock  and  she  had  to  tease  it  out  with  the  prong  of  a  fork.  Of  course,  she  did  not  let  Fatima  see  what  she  was  doing.  It  was  Friday,  their  day  to  go  to  the  country,  and  she  was  feeling  reluctant  about  it.  She  knew  that  when  they  ar-  rived  they  would  rush  around  their  garden  and  look  at  their  plants  to  see  if  they'd  grown  a  bit,  and  look  at  the  rose  leaves  to  make  sure  there  were  no  aphids.  Then,  staring  out  across  the  fields  to  where  the  cows  were,  they  would  tell  each  other  how  lucky  they  were  to  have  such  a  nice  place,  and  how  clever,  The  magnolia  flowers  would  be  fully  out  and  she  would  stand  and  stare  at  the  tree,  as  if  by  staring  at  it  she  could  imbue  her  body  with  some-  thing  of  its  whiteness,  HE  magnolia  were  out  when  they  arrived-like  little  white  china  eggcups,  each  bloom  with  its  leaves  lifted  to  the  heavens.  Two  of  the  elms  definitely  had  the  blight,  Mr.  Rein-  hardt  said,  and  the  leaves  were  wither-  ing  away.  The  elms  would  have  to  be  chopped,  and  Mr.  Reinhardt  estimated  that  there  would  be  enough  firewood  for  two  winters.  He  would  speak  to  the  farm  manager,  who  lived  down  the  road,  about  this.  They  carried  in  the  shopping,  raised  the  blinds,  and  switched  on  the  central  heating.  The  little  kitchen  was  just  as  they  had  left  it,  except  that  the  primroses  in  the  jar  had  faded  and  were  like  bits  of  yellow  skin.  She  unpacked  the  food  they  had  brought,  put  some  things  in  the  fridge,  and  began  to  peel  the  carrots  and  po-  tatoes  for  the  evening  meal.  Mr.  Rein-  hardt  hammered  four  picture  hangers  intothe  wall  for  the  new  prints  that  he  had  brought  down.  Loudly,  he  would  " b"call  her  to  ask  what  order  he  should  put  them  in,  and  she  would  go  in,  her  hands  covered  with  flour,  and  rather  absently  suggest  a  grouping.  She  had  the  little  key  in  her  purse  and  had  been  opening  the  purse  from  time  to  time.  The  sight  of  the  key  made  her  blush.  At  dusk,  she  went  out  to  get  a  branch  of  applewood  for  the  fire.  When  burned  the  branch  would  impart  a  lovely  perfume.  A  bird  chirped  from  a  tree.  It  was  more  sound  than  song.  She  could  not  tell  what  bird  it  was.  The  magnolia  tree  was  a  mass  of  white  in  the  surrounding  darkness.  The  dew  was  falling  and  she  bent  for  a  moment  to  touch  the  wet  grass.  She  wished  it  were  Sunday,  so  that  they  could  be  going  home.  In  [REDACTED],  the  evenings  seemed  to  pass  more  quickly  and  theyeach  had  more  chores  to  do.  She  felt  that  in  some  way  she  was  de-  ceiving  him.  They  drank  red  wine  as  they  sat  by  the  fire.  Mr.  Reinhardt  was  fidgety  but  at  the  very  same  time  accused  her  of  being  fidgety.  He  was  being  adamant  about  the  Common  Market.  Why  did  he  expound  on  the  logistics  of  it  when  she  was  not  even  contradicting  him?  He  got  carried  away,  made  gestures,  said  he  loved  England,  loved  it  passion-  ately,  that  England  was  going  to  the  dogs.  When  she  got  up  to  push  in  a  log  that  had  fallen  from  the  grate,  heasked  her  for  God's  sake  to  pay  attention.  She  sat  down  at  once  and  hoped  that  there  was  not  going  to  be  one  of  those  terrible,  unexpected,  meaningless  rows.  But,  blessedly,  they  were  distracted.  She  heard  him  say,  &quot;Christ,&quot;  and  then  she  looked  up  and  saw  what  he  had  just  seen.  There  was  a  herd  of  cattle  star-  ing  inat  them  through  the  diamond-  paned  window.  She  could  see  plumes  of  breath,  foreheads,  and  huge  brown  eyes  looking  inat  them.  She  jumped  up.  Mr.  Reinhardt  rushed  to  the  phone  to  call  the  farm  manager,  since  he  him-  self  knew  nothing  about  country  life,  certainly  not  how  to  drive  away  cattle.  She  grabbed  a  walking  stick  and  went  outside  to  prevent  the  cows  from  falling  in  the  swimming  pool.  It  was  cold  out-of-doors  and  the  wind  rustled  in  all  the  trees.  The  cows  looked  at  her,  suspicious.  Their  ears  pricked.  She  made  tentative  movements  with  the  stick,  and  at  that  moment  four  of  them  leaped  over  the  barbed  wire  and  back  into  the  adjoining  field.  The  re-  maining  cow  began  to  race  around.  From  the  field  the  four  cows  began  to  bawl.  The  fifth  cow  was  butting  against  the  paling.  Mrs.  Reinhardt  thought,  I  know  what  you  are  feel-  ing-you  are  feeling  lost  and  muddled  and  you  have  gone  astray. Her  husband  came  out  in  a  frenzy  because  when  he  rang  the  farm  man-  ager  no  one  was  there.  &quot;Bloody  never  there!&quot;  he  said.  His  loud  voice  so  frightened  the  fifth  cow  that  she  made  a  leap  for  it  and  got  stuck  in  the  barbed  wire.  Mrs.  Reinhardt  could  see  the  barb  in  her  huge  udder  and  thought  what  a  place  for  it  to  have  landed.  They  must  rescue  her.  Very  cautious,  ly  they  both  approached  the  animal,  and  the  intention  was  that  Mr.  Rein-  hardt  would  hold  the  cow  while  Mrs.  Reinhardt  freed  the  flesh.  She  tried  to  be  gentle.  The  cow's  smell  was  milky  and  soft  compared  with  her  roar,  which  was  beseeching.  Mr.  Reinhardt  caught  hold  of  the  hindquarters  and  told  his  wife  to  hurry  up.  The  cow  was  bucking.  As  Mrs.  Reinhardt  lifted  the  bleeding  flesh  away,  the  cow  took  a  huge  jump  and  was  over  the  fence  and  down  the  field,  where  she  hur-  riedto  the  river  to  drink.  The  others  followed  her,  and  sud-  denly  the  whole  meadow  was  the  scene  of  bawling  and  mad  commotion.  Mr.  Reinhardt  rubbed  his  hands  and  let  out  a  sigh  of  relief.  He  suggested  that  they  open  a  bottle  of  champagne.  Mrs.  Reinhardt  was  delighted.  Of  late  he  had  become  very  thrifty  and  did  not  permit  her  any  extravagances.  In  fact,  he  had  been  saying  that  they  would  soon  have  to  give  up  wine  because  of  the  state  of  the  country.  As  they  went  indoors,  he  put  an  arm  around  her.  And  back  in  the  room,  she  sat  and  felt  like  a  mistress  as  she  drank  the  cham-  pagne,  smiled  at  him,  and  felt  the  stuff  coursing  through  her  body.  The  cham-  " b"pagne  put  them  in  a  nice  mood  and  they  linked  as  they  went  up  the  nar-  row  stairs  to  bed.  Nevertheless,  Mrs.  Reinhardt  did  not  feel  like  any  in-  timacy;  she  wanted  it  reserved  for  the  hidden  room.  HEY  returned  to  [REDACTED]  on  Sunday  evening,  and  that  night  Mrs.  Reinhardt  did  not  sleep.  Conse-  quently,  she  walked  nowhere  in  her  dreams.  In  the  morning  she  felt  rest-  less.  She  looked  in  the  mirror.  She  was  getting  old.  After  breakfast,  as  Mr.  Reinhardt  was  hurrying  out  of  the  house,  she  held  up  the  little  key.  &quot;What  is  it?&quot;she  said.  &quot;How  would  I  know,&quot;  he  said.  He  looked  livid.  She  called  and  made  an  appointment  at  the  hairdresser's.  She  must  not  get  old.  Later,  when  her  hair  was  set,  she  would  surprise  him-she  would  drop  in  at  his  gallery  and  ask  him  to  take  her  to  a  nice  pub.  On  the  way,  she  would  buy  a  new  scarf  and  knot  it  at  the  neck,  and  she  would  be  youthful.  When  she  got  to  the  gallery,  Mr.  Reinhardt  was  not  there.  Hans,  his  as-  sistant,  was  busy  with  a  client  from  the  Middle  East.  She  said  she  would  wait.  The  new  secretary  went  off  to  make  some  tea.  Mrs.  Reinhardt  sat  at  her  husband's  desk  brooding,  and  then  idly  she  began  to  flick  through  his  desk  diary,  just  to  pass  the  time.  Lunch  with  this  one  and  that  one.  A  reminder  to  buy  her  a  present  for  their  anniver-  sary-which  he  had  done.  He  had  brought  her  a  beautiful  ring  with  a  sphinx  on  it.  Then  she  saw  it--the  ad-  dress  that  she  went  to  night  after  night.  Number  10.  The  digits  danced  before  her  eyes  as  they  had  danced  when  she  drove  up  in  the  taxi  the  very  first  time.  Allher  movements  became  hurried  and  mechanical.  She  gulped  her  tea,  she  gave  a  distracted  handshake  to  the  Arab  gentleman,  she  ate  the  ginger  bis-  cuit  and  gnashed  her  teeth,  so  violently  did  she  chew.  She  paced  the  floor,  she  went  back  to  the  diary.  The  same  ad-  dress-three,  four,  or  five  times  a  week.  She  flicked  back  to  see  how  long  it  had  been  going  on.  It  was  no  use.  She  simply  had  to  go  there.  At  the  mews,  she  found  the  latchkey  in  the  flower  tub.  In  the  kitchen  were  eggshells  and  a  pan  in  which  an  ome-  lette  had  been  cooked,  There  were  two  brown  eggshells  and  one  white.  She  dipped  her  finger  in  the  fat;  it  was  still  warm.  Her  heart  went  ahead  of  her  up  the  stairs.  She  had  her  hand  on  the  doorknob,  when  all  of  a  sudden  she  stopped  in  her  tracks  andbecame  mo-  tionless.  She  crept  away  from  the  door  and  went  back  to  the  landing  seat.  She  would  not  intrude-no.  It  was  perfectly  clear  why  Mr.  Reinhardt  went  there.  He  went  by  day  to  keep  this  tryst  with  her,  be  unfaithful  with  her,  just  as  she  went  by  night.  One  day  or  one  night,  if  they  were  very  lucky,  they  might  meet  there  again  and  share  their  secret,  but  until  then  Mrs.  Rein-  hardt  was  content  to  leave  everything  just  as  it  was.  She  tiptoed  down  the  stairs  and  was  pleased  that  she  had  not  acted  rashly,  that  she  had  not  lost  her  head."