 b"ANTHONY  Moon  (Zeckendorf)  was  born  in  England  and  attended  Eton,  Wibley,  and  Miss  Gob-  bett's  Academy,  concluding  his  formal  education  at  St.  Vitus's  College,  Ox-  ford,  where  he  studied  mowe  under  the  brilliant  House  Beamish.  His  first  pro-  fessional  job  was  as  Obadiah  in  the  re-  yue  A  Pound  of  Cheese,  which  ran  for  fifteen  years  at  the  Wee-Theatre-in-  the-Bog,  breaking  all  records  forthe  West  End  and  closing  only  when  the  cast  set  fire  to  the  scenery.  After  join-  ing  the  National  Theatre,  Mr.  Moon  was  acclaimed  for  his  performances  as  Rosalind  in  4s  You  Like  It,  Monroe  Parch  in  Parsippany  Place,  and  Sir  Giggling  Fatbody  in  Sheridan's  The  Wind-Sucker.  Mr.  Moon  is  the  author  of  A  Penm'orth  of  Rumply,  a  fantasy  for  &quot;children  of  all  ages&quot;  based  on  the  limericks  of  Albert  Speer,  which  is  currently  in  preparation  for  the  1977  season.  His  autobiography,  Scomes  at  Eventide,  was  a  best-seller  and  will  be  filmed  by  the  Rank  Organisation,  fea-  turing  Colin  Ponce  and  Colin  Head-  strong-Jones  as  the  twin  bakers.  MISHRU  FrEK  (Curley)  in  a  long  and  distinguished  theatrical  ca-  reer  has  appeared  in  over  three  thou-  sand  productions,  from  Second  Avenue  cabaret  (Don't  Make  Me  Laugh,  So  Who  Are  You  Kidding!,  I'm  Enti-  tled,  and  You  Should  Live  So  Long)  to  regional  theatre  (Chaim  in  The  Wild  Mouse,  Vontz  in  Crusts)  to  [REDACTED],  where  he  triumphed  last  season  as  the  grief-stricken  father  in  Runteleh,  the  Pulitzer  Prize-winning  musical  drawn  from  the  life  of  Eddie  Carmel,  the  Jewish  giant.  In  recent  years,  Mr.  Fek  has  divided  his  time  between  King  Lear  (&quot;twice  a  year,  rain  or  shine&quot;)  and  [REDACTED];  his  latest  films  include  Blood  of  the  Face  Eaters,  Nostril  from  Outer  Space,  and  Monster  Beach  Party.  His  television  credits  include  numerous  specials,  nota-  bly  an  abbreviated  version  of  Runteleh,  for  which  he  won  the  coveted  Em-  meleh.  The  Department  of  State  has  engaged  Mr.  Fek  to  tour  Europe  with  his  phenomenal  one-man  show  Jews  in  Motion,  an  entertainment  based  on  the  responsa  of  Chodish,  the  skating  rabbi  of  Budapest.  MARY  BetHx  NuUumKINs  (Nell  Run-  cible)  is  a  self-professed  &quot;stage  kook&quot;  who  has  appeared  in  stock  and  regional  theatre.  Among  her  favorite  roles  are  Molly  in  Tom  O'Monahoon's  Chowder,  Sally  in  The  Misty  Bog,  Wendy  in  The  Bosky  Fen,  Peggy  in  IN  THE  CAST  The  Dusky  Glen,  and  Polly  in  Poppa's  Pockmark.  She  appeared  as  Princess  Tinkle-Beam  in  Toast  and  Mrs.  Toast  and  won  plauditsfor  her  portrayal  of  the  shepherdess  in  The  Bleat  of  My  Heart.  She  maintains  that  the  theatre  is  a  &quot;special,  magical  place,  made  of  fairy-webs  and  gossamer.&quot;  She  lives  in  New  York  City  withher  cat,  Mister  Cat,  and  a  large  colored  man.  RAMON  PEr1GROso  (ParsonAnders,  Ziggy)  was  last  seen  in  the  role  of  the  psychotic  barber  in  Don't  Nobody  Gonna  W  hup  My  Face,  presented  last  season  at  the  Drainpipe  Theatre.  In  addition,  Mr.  Peligroso  has  appeared  as  the  addict  in  No  Horse  for  Haondker-  chief-Heads  and  the  sadistic  orderly  in  Enema.  He  created  the  role  of  Goat-  berry  Jones  in  the  national  company  of  Harlan  Peachtree's  Massive  Apparatus,  for  which  he  won  the  Frobischer  Award.  His  autobiographical  play,  The  Repositude  of  Naphthaleme  Catfish,  was  presented  last  season  by  the  Militant  Playhouse.  EDIA  Buntmc  (Mrs.  Peahen)  made  her  theatrical  debut  thirty  years  ago  in  [REDACTED]  Williams'  For  the  Safety  of  the  Passengers,  the  Driv-  er  Is  Not  Permitted  to  Change  Any  Bills  Larger  Than  Five  Dollars,  play-  ing  the  harelip  to  Luther  Dabchick's  waterhead.  After  a  hiatus  of  twenty-  eight  years,  she  returned  to  [REDACTED]  last  season  in  the  revival  of  Perfervid  Desires,  which  closed  during  the  first  act,  although  the  critics  were  unani-  mous  about  her  performance.  This  marks  Miss  Bunting's  first  appearance  in  the  legitimate  theatre  without  a  mobcap.  ENE  CATAFALOUE  Whores,  Townspeople)  (Beggars,  To  act  is  to  be;  To  be  is  merely  to  seem.  The  truth  is  a  hat.  -Hanxns  EKnarpr  O\xe2\x80\x99BOB  Macvour  (Director)  trained  at  L.A.M.D.A.  and  the  Yale  Drama  School  under  Fleming  Pease,  directing  revue  and  cabaret  (Re-  doubtable  Antics  of'62,  Arty-T  arty).  After  a  spell  in  television,  he  directed  the  wildly  successful  nature  film  Ring  of  Bright  Beavers  (&quot;Vapid  family  fun!  Non-threatening!&quot;-L.A.  Times),  which  grossed  six  hundred  million  dol-  lars  worldwide  and  won  him  three  Os-  cars,  two  Patsys,  and  the  Distinguished  Flying  Cross,  Last  season  he  directed  Sir  Henry  Wolfsbane  in  the  highly  ac-claimed  R.S.C,  production  of  Con-  greve's  Pox;  or,  The  TraducerTra-  duced,  which  won  both  the  Drama  Circle  Critics  Citation  Prize  Award  and  the  Award  Circle  Drama  Critics  Prize  Citation.  EON  MaTrIx  (Sets  and  Lighting)  is  one  of  our  most  versatile  design-  ers,  whose  work  ranges  from  the  long-  running  Leafy  Green  Vegetables  to  the  costumes  for  Mary's  Nose.  Trained  under  Schlemmer  and  Gropius,  he  did  pioneering  work  at  both  the  Bauhaus  and  the  Bau-wau-haus,  the  avant-garde  Theatre  for  Hounds  hedesigned  for  Piscator  in  [REDACTED].  More  recently,  he  won  the  rarely  awarded  Mortimer  for  Roach!,  the  musical  version  of  Kafka's  Metamorphosis,  which  will  be  present-  ed  on  [REDACTED]  every  season  by  David  Merrick.  He  is  four  feet  tall.  AWOL];  Barris:  (Author)  spent  several  years  as  an  advertising  copywriter  and  burst  upon  the  theatri-  cal  scene  with  a  cathartic  evening  of  one-acters:  Spearmint,  Doublemint,  and  Excremint,  which  won  him  both  a  Nudlicer  and  a  Peavy.  His  dental  tril-  ogy,  Drill,  Fill,  and  Rinse,  Please,  was  hailed  as  the  finest  American  dental  writing  in  fifty  years  and  was  com-  pared  to  Gogol's  The  Owverbite  and  Sophocles  Oedipus  in  Pyorrhea.  Mr.  Batfish  resides  with  his  wife,  Laura,  and  her  wife,  Leslie,  at  Nutmeat  Col-  lege,  [REDACTED],  where  he  holds  the  Robert  Goulet  Chair  of  Drama-  turgy.  AHMET  ErcoramIn\xc2\xae  (Producer)  has  been  represented  on  Broad-  way  by  Goodbye,  My  Toes  and  the  smash  hit  musical  Morons  Over  Man-  hattan,  currently  in  its  third  season.  In  association  with  Max  Rubric  he  pro-  duced  The  Man  in  the  Paper  Pants  and  The  Smell  of  Shapiro  for  the  Col-  loid  Center  Theatre  Group  in  [REDACTED].  Mr.  Ergotamine's  reputation  as  a  promotional  genius  dates  from  1950,  when  he  employed  a  chimpanzee  in  a  miter  to  unicycle  through  the  thea-  tre  district  to  publicize  his  knockabout  religious  farce,  Bishopzapoppin!  His  in-  novative  all-black  production  of  The  Dance  of  Death  was  followed  by  an  equally  successful  all-male-Pakistani  Riders  to  the  Sea  and  an  all-parrot  Im-  portance  of  Being  Earnest.  Next  spring,  he  will  produce  Death  of  a  Salesman  in  New  Orleans  with  every-  one  (cast  and  audience)  wearing  giant  papier-m@ch\xc3\xa9  Mardi  Gras  heads,  bor-  rowed  from  the  Grand  Krewe  of  the  Knights  of  Toulouse.  "