 b"1.  Acme  Numbers  have  fascinated  mathema-  ticians  for  almost  four  thousand  years.  These  entertaining  symbols,  with  their  astonishingly  numerical  properties,  af-  ford  us  many  baffling  impromptu  parlor  tricks.  This  one  was  called  to  my  atten-  tion  by  Roman  Norweb,  of  Princeton,  Nev.  It  employs  an  ordinary  narrow  supermarket  receipt,  and  never  fails  to  elicit  cries  of  disbelief  when  performed  in  company.  Hand  an  ordinary  guest  asuper-  market  receipt  and  ask  him  to  tally  the  numerals  in  each  vertical  col-  umn  of  the  tape,  starting  from  the  top  right-hand  column  of  digits  and  working  down,  and  then  &quot;carrying&quot;  digits,  much  as  one  does  in  ordinary  addition.  Confoundingly,  the  probabil-  ity  is  1/2,  or  fifty  per  cent,  that  one  or  more  digits  in  the  guest's  total  will  correspond  to  one  or  more  of  those  printed  in  the  bottom  line  on  the  tape.  The  trick  is  ridiculously  easy  to  understand  once  it  is  understood,  and  lays  bare  the  very  essence  of  the  scientific  method.  It  relies  on  what  magicians  call  &quot;chance.&quot;  The  great-  er  the  number  of  entries  on  the  tape,  the  smaller  the  probability  of  a  coin-  cidence-with  an  absolute  certainty  of  no  coincidence,  of  course,  when  the  tape  involves  items  rung  on  the  &quot;Meat&quot;  key.  (See  Price  and  Pride,  &quot;One  Hundred  Mathematical  Rack-  ets,&quot;  1976.)  2.  SEvEn  Bucs  One  of  the  classic  mathematical  fallacies  was  immortalized  by  William  Wordsworth  in  his  &quot;On  the  Extinc-  tion  ofthe  Venetian  Republic,  1802&quot;:  Seven  bugs  each  sought  a  mate  From  inside  their  own  huddle;  Yet  none  would  woo  another's  date,  So  how  were  they  to  cuddle?  &quot;There's  not  much  sense  in  grievin',&quot;  Said  One,  and  gave  a  nod;  &quot;Let  odd  consort  with  even,  And  even  pair  with  odd.&quot;  So  Six  and  Three  went  out  to  tea,  And  Five  took  Four  to  wife;  One  and  Two  kept  company,  And  Seven  took  its  life.  Addendum:  An  ingenious  resolution  of  this  prob-  lem  has  been  proposed  by  Werner  Frye,  of  Whippo,  N.M.,  who  writes:  &quot;If  each  bug  paired  with  a  transfinite  number,  senseless  tragedy  might  be  averted.&quot;  3.  Tus  Maze  or  [REDACTED]  There  is  nothing  mysterious  about  speech;  it  is  merely  a  way  of  ex-  pressing  thoughts  without  having  to  write  them  down.  Yet  the  incredible  verbal  sequence  known  to  logicians  as  the  Maze  of  [REDACTED]  quickly  dispels  the  illusion  that  spoken  language  is  a  plausible  means  of  communication.  Here  is  the  classical  formulation  of  this  sequence:  A:  I  don't  think  you  want  to  see  me  more  often.  B:  That's  not  true.  A:  Then  you  do  want  to  see  me  more  often.  B:  I  didn't  say  that.  I  just  don't  not  want  to  see  you  more  often.  Also  known  as  the  Paradox  of  Don  [REDACTED],  this  problem  has  long  in-  trigued  philosophers  of  science.  The  difficulties  become  clear  if  we  let  T  represent  the  outer  limits  of  A's  toler-  ance,  and  \xc2\xa3&quot;  the  measurable  tenuous-  ness  of  the  relationship.  Prof.  Mary  W.  Noad's  aggrieved  discussion  of  T*&quot;  (see  Science  for  W  omen,  May,  1975)  suggests  that  the  Maze  of  [REDACTED]  will  continue  to  resist  logical  analysis.  4.  JEREKAGONS  Jerkagons  are  paper  polygons,  made  by  folding  rectangular  NASA  payroll  checks.  They  have  the  delight-  ful  property  of  changing  shape  when  their  edges  are  jerked  in  a  particular  way.  Jerkagons  were  discovered  by  Dr.  Yves  St.  Laurent,  the  French  astro-  physicist.  St.  Laurent's  jerkagon  can  be  manipulated  so  that  it  reveals  three  dif-  ferent  faces.  (See  &quot;The  Three  Faces  of  Yves,&quot;  Journal  of  Sterevisomers  and  Paper  Games,  Summer,  1966.)  He  has  set  forth  the  principles  of  jerk-  agation  in  a  mathematical  proof  of  exquisite  elegance,  printed  on  off-white  crepe  de  Chine.  You  can  make  a  jerkagon  quite  easily.  Fold  check  as  shown  in  Fig.  1.   Figure  1  Now  grasp  your  jerkagon  by  any  two  edges  and  give  it  a  sharp  jerk,  ofthe  kind  absurdly  simple  to  describe  as  sort  of  an  imploded  tremor.  As  if  by  magic,  your  jerkagon  will  assume  one  of  three  possible  shapes.  (See  Figs.  2-4.)     Figure  4  Addendum:  After  my  article  about  jerkagons  ap-  peared  in  the  August,  1975,  Scientific  W  himsician,  I  received  the  following  correspondence  from  Prof.  Lance  [REDACTED],  of  Canaveral,  N.H.:  &quot;From  way  over  here  at  another  coordinate  on  this  tiny  hunk  of  stuff  we  call  the  [REDACTED],  I  am  prompted  to  report  a  curious  incident  which  sug-  gests  that  the  properties  of  the  jerka-  gon  may  be  stunning  and  awesome  beyond  our  wildest  dreams.  Early  in  October,  I  was  driving  [REDACTED]  with  my  family,  on  my  way  to  meet  with  a  bunch  of  stuffy  and  unimaginative  colleagues.  While  passing  through  an  especially  banal  landscape  in  [REDACTED],  I  decided  to  use  my  very  large  brain  to  amuse  my  very  small  son.  Pulling  up  beside  what  looked  like  a  peanut  thicket,  I  took  from  my  wallet  a  can-  celled  check  for  $1505.76,  folded  it  into  a  jerkagon,  and  told  the  boy  how  to  manipulate  it.  He  gave  it  a  couple  of  dutiful  tweaks  and  then  flung  it  out  of  the  window,  into  what  looked  like  a  peanut  thicket,  and  demanded  a  doll.  &quot;Within  a  matter  of  weeks,  the  na-  tional  press  had  started  to  report  the  existence  of  someone  named  'Jimmy  Carter,&quot;  calling  him  'an  enigma'  who  had  'come  out  of  nowhere.&quot;  Since  physi-  cists  are  in  agreement  that  it  is  impos-  sible  for  matter  to  'come  out  of  no-  where,'  unless  'nowhere'  is  merely  a  word  we  use  to  mean  a  somewhere  which  we  disapprove  of,  I  do  not  hesi-  tate  to  draw  the  controversial  conclu-  sion  that  'Jimmy  Carter  did  indeed  " b"come  out  of  somewhere,  and  that  the  somewhere  which  he  came  out  of  was  my  jerkagon.  &quot;I  now  choose  to  speculate  freely.  Does  the  jerkagon's  time-space,  awe-  some  and  far-out  as  we  may  now  sur-  mise  it  to  be,  teem  with  intelligent  life?  Does  it  teem  with  teeth?  How  many  more  'Jimmy  Carters'  await  nothing  more  than  the  twiddle  ofa  child's  fingers  to  be  projected  into  our  national  political  life?  Is  'Jimmy  Carter  an  extraterrestrial,  and  if  he  is  an  extraterrestrial  is  he  Constitu-  tionally  disqualified  from  holding  elec-  tive  office  on  this  planet?  If  these  bog-  gling  possibilities  don't  put  things  in  perspective,  what  will?&quot;  5.  OrtHo  This  diverting  game,  known  to  many  a  schoolgirl  in  its  traditional  pencil-and-paper  form,  is  now  avail-  able  in  a  manufactured  version,  de-  signed  and  marketed  by  the  Dutch  in-  ventor  Piet  Heineken.  Ortho  makes  use  of  a  perforated  plastic  case  contain-  ing  twenty-one  disc-shaped  counters.  Play  begins  on  Day  1,  when  the  player  takes  the  first  counter.  Thereafter,  any  combination  of  moves  is  either  &quot;safe&quot;  or  &quot;unsafe&quot;  (as  binary  analysis  will  easily  show).  For  example,  in  the  common  &quot;1,2,3,  5&quot;  game,  the  player  forgets  to  employ  a  counter  on  Day  4,  thus  changing  a  &quot;safe&quot;  position  to  an  &quot;unsafe&quot;  one.  Any  &quot;safe&quot;&quot;  position  can  be  made  &quot;unsafe&quot;  by  a  wrong  move.  Since  the  game  depends  entirely  upon  the  player's  memory,  &quot;rational&quot;  strat-  egies  are  impossible  and  there  is  no  way  to  force  a  win.  The  game's  centuries-old  popularity  is  attested  to  in  many  historical  refer-  ences.  The  Phoenicians  called  it  the  Maze  of  [REDACTED],  and  it  was  familiar  to  the  Anglo-Saxons  as  a  pastime  called  Preggers. "