 b"IT  was  in  the  late  nineteen-sixties  that  something  terrible,  or  at  least  highly  regrettable,  happened  to  Christian  Thrale.  This  came  about  while  his  wife,  Grace,  was  at  Win-  chester  with  the  children;  which  will  suggest  the  nature  of  the  occurrence.  Grace  had  hardly  been  gone  long  enough  to  be  properly,  let  alone  acute,  ly,  missed;  and  certainly  not  long  enough  forChristian  to  have  tele-  phoned,  for  he  was  frugal  in  these  and  other  matters.  It  was  early  evening  on  a  Tuesday,  and  Christian  was  standing  at  his  win-  dow  in  a  government  office  observ-  ing  the  bloom  of  silky  light  extending  in  great  reconcilement  over  [REDACTED]:  looking  at  forests  of  leaves  spread  like  open  hands,  and  white  colonnades  and  porticoes,  and  roads  that  shone  like  riv-  ers.  In  the  park  could  be  seen  a  streak  of  turf,  a  dab  of  water,  the  blue  tilting  steeples  of  delphinium.  The  evening  bore  the  cachet  of  a  huge  success  mag-  nificently  consummated  after  many  botched  attempts.  Christian  was  enjoying  not  only  the  manageable  rapture  of  sundown  but  the  novelty  of  his  own  high  pleasure  in  it:  he  hadmerely  glanced  out,  not  ex-  pecting  anything  but  weather.  Though  traffic  rumbled,  the  mnemonic  light  had  a  quality  of  silence;  yet  seemed  no  simple  fact  of  nature-for  one  scarcely  felt  such  a  radiance  could  exist  without  such  a  city  to  encompass.  There  was  human  engagement  in  it,  as  at  some  momentous  passage  of  human  greeting,  or  leave-taking,  with  the  world.  Christian,  moreover,  was  aware  of  himself  looking:  a  sandy  man  of  more  than  average  height  and  above-average  intelligence-yet  always  keeping  at  hand  the  bolt  hole  of  the  average;  the  yardstick,  rather,  by  which  departures  and  excesses  might  be  measured.  A  door  opened  at  his  back.  He  did  not  turn,  being  pleased  to  be  discov-  ered  in  the  very  act  of  survey  and  reflection:  a  sandy  man  with  narrow  shoulders  who  had  retained  perspec-  tive.  In  childhood  Christian  had,  like  many  children,  defined  himself  as  sen-  sitive;  and  had  made  no  reassessment  in  the  light  of  later  promptings.  In  of-  fice  affairs  he  had  frequently  cautioned,  &quot;If  we  lose  our  humanity  we  are  done  for.&quot;  Although  at  other  times  he  had  said,  &quot;We  have  to  draw  the  line  some-  where,&quot;  and  &quot;It's  not  for  me  to  say.&quot;  A  crisis  had  blown  up,  and  what  luck,  Thrale,  you  are  still  here.  A  meeting  was  being  called,  since  the  cables  must  be  sent  that  evening.  What  luck,  as  Talbot-Sims  had  just  gone  down  in  the  lift.  Christian  could  not  feel  what  luck,  thinking  of  Talbot-Sims  spurting  for  home,  for  dear  life,  flying  free  across  [REDACTED]  in  what  he  visualizedas  an  open  car,  although  Talbot-Sims  was  known  totravel  exclusively  by  Tube.  Drooped  over  the  willow  pattern  of  his     blotter,  Christian  assembled  papers,  be-  grudging  what,  by  curious  reversal,  he  felt  to  be  an  interruption.  He  assumed  with  reluctance  the  willing  expression  he  normally  wore  with  ease.  Christian  Thrale  was  rising  in  his  profession.  Those  peering  into  the  oven  of  his  career  would  report,  &quot;Christian  is  rising,&quot;  as  if  he  were  a  cake  or  loaf  of  bread.  They  did  not  say,  &quot;He  will  go  far,&quot;  which  would  have  suggested  temperament;  but  from  time  to  time  remarked  his  gradual  ascent:  &quot;Chris-  tian  has  risen.&quot;  The  conference  room  looked  to-  ward  the  park.  Only  the  room  did  so,  the  men  present  being  focussed  on  a  table,  on  papers,  on  one  another:  on  themselves.  They  stared  into  the  glossy  grain  ofthat  table  as  if  into  a  tank.  Revived  by  a  fresh  draught  of  im-  portance,  they  rustled,  they  murmured,  they  struck  matches  and  matched  watches;  because  there  was  a  delay.  The  first  rank  of  the  stenographers  having  got  clear,  having  somehow  packed  themselves  along  with  Talbot  Sims  into  that  escape  hatch  of  the  downward  lift-and  the  doyenne,  Miss  Ratchitt,  being  home  today  bil-  ious-they  were  waiting  for  a  girl  to  take  the  minutes.  This  was  an  aggravation  when  ev-  ery  moment  was  precious.     T  was  like  the  delphiniums,  when  she  came.  For  this  emergency  she  had  been  called  back  from  the  ladies'  room,  where  she  was  preparing  to  go  home-perhaps,  who  knows,  to  go  out.  In  those  preparations  she  had  literally  let  down  her  hair,  which  was  yellow  like  ripe  corn;  and  had  been  given  no  time  to  redress  it.  Merely  combed  back,  it  fell  over  her  slim  blue  shoulders  and  streaked  down  her  spine;  and  even  the  worst  man  there,  of  whom  there  were  several,  yearned  for  it.  Christian  could  not  recall  having  seen  her  before  in  the  zones  of  exercise  and  en-  counter,  lift  or  corri-  dor;  but  perhaps  with  the  hair  down  it  was  different.  When  she  came,  it  was  like  the  delphini-  ums.  She  sat  in  a  heavy  chair-that  no  one,  to  " b"put  it  mildly,  pulled  out  for  her.  Never  having  pulled  it  out  for  Ratchitt,  the  contrast  would  in  any  case  have  exposed  them.  Behind  the  arras  of  his  expression,  Christian  watched  en-  tranced.  'The  movements,  deliberate,  shy,  with  which  she  laid  her  lined  note-  book  on  the  table  and  folded  it,  and  restrained  an  extra  pencil  from  roll-  ing;  the  elbow  poised  on  the  table,  the  head  inclined  long-lashed  to  the  page,  evoking  the  schoolgirl  she  had  lately  been.  Around  the  tank  the  flickering  in-  tensified  before  falling  ceremoniously  away.  It  was  a  ritual  moment,  as  if  the  soloist  flung  back  coattails  over  the  piano  bench  or  fixed  the  protective  pad  between  Stradivarius  and  jowl.  Gentle-  men,  shall  we  begin.  A  note  of  reproof  from  the  soloist-even  of  self-reproof  perhaps,  of,  Gentlemen,  let  us  now  be  serious.  I  need  not  stress  that  these  proceedings  take  place  in  the  utmost  confidence,  I  trust  that  was  made  clear  alsoto  Miss-I'm  afraid  I  don't  know  your-  Cordelia  Ware.  Miss  Ware.  Very  good.  The  Cabi-  net  will  conclude  its  deliberations  with-  in  the  hour  and  we  are  informed  that.  It  fell  forward,  the  flag  of  hair.  An  arm  came  up  to  pass  it  uselessly  back  over  the  shoulder.  A  page  hastily  turned.  A  gazelle  in  the  room.  4368696e61  in  the  bull  shop.  Everything  frail  and  fair,  cheek,  ear,  wrist,  and  the  earnest  curve  blue  from  waist  to  shoulder.  It  was  courting  disaster  to  have  closed  the  creature  in  here.  In  view  of  the  events  of  the  past  week  the  significance  of  such  a  decision  can  hardly  be  overestimated,  the  far-  reaching  consequences.  Would  you  make  a  heading  of  this,  Miss-I'm  afraid  I  don't  recall  your-Gentle-  men,  time  is  not  on  our  side.  She  was  taking  the  minutes,  The  minutes  flew;  it  was  she  who  took  them;  every  moment  was  precious  and  time  not  on  our  side.  Christian  remembered  lines:  How  can  I,  that  girl  standing  there,  My  attention  fix  On  Roman  or  on  Russian  Or  on  Spanish  politics?  The  verse  ended,  &quot;O  that  I  were  young  again,  and  held  her  in  my  arms!&quot;  He  remembered  that,  too.  If  you  learnt  the  stuff  young,  you  never  lost  it.  Thirty-eight  is  not  old.  You're  as  old  as  you  feel.  I  feel  old.  Another  page  flicked,  the  wrist  arching  anxious,  ly.  There  was  the  same  gesture  casting  back  the  hair.  Time  was  on  her  side.  She  wore  a  round  watch,  inexpensive,  with  a  band  of  ribbed  black  ribbon-  grosgrain,  they  called  it  in  the  ads.  She  was  sinking  him,  he  was  listing  like  a  ship.  O  Christ,  it  is  the  Inchcape  Rock.  This  is  ridiculous,  and  how  very  unjust.  Nine  years  of  happy  mar-  riage  decidedly  not  foundering  in  any  such  rut  or  reef  as  is  here  implied.  A  wide  variety  of  interests.  537061696e  this  year  and  the  Swan's  tour  in  \xc2\xa9'65.  It  is  true  the  office....  But  not  to  the  extent  this  girl's  effect  appears  to  in-  sinuate.  So  Christian  tacked,  zigzagging  on  a  course  of  yellow  hair  and  blue  flow-  ers.  His  shipmates  might  have  been  bound  to  the  mast,  their  ears  stopped  with  wax.  They  seethed,  they  droned.  They  plied  the  ropes.  They  knew  the  ropes.  As  to  the  humanitarian  aspect,  deep  concern  will  be  voiced;  however,  this  will  be  done  confidentially  in  order  not  to  exacerbate  an  already  delicate.  They  were  at  the  stage  of  leaning  back,  ties  askew.  A  sensible  precaution,  Bickerstaff;  a  good  point,  Barger.  Pertinacity  commended  as  at  school;  " b"with  Christian  on  this  occasion  not  among  the  bright  boys.  There  was  no  following  her  when  at  last  she  was  sent  away  to  type  in  some  room  where  lights  were  now  switched  onand  cleaners  would  have  to  be  excluded.  The  contents  of  the  wastepaper  basket  would  be  burnt.  The  captains  melted  away,  the  king-  pins  departed.  Roaming  a  grey  corridor,  Christian  was  accosted  by  a  bleached  colleague,  [REDACTED]  Elphinstone  by  name.  Chris-  tian  had  sometimes  said,  &quot;I  don't  hit  it  off  with  Elphinstone.&quot;  Always  add-  ing,  &quot;I'm  sure  it's  my  fault.&quot;  Elphinstone  churned  loose  change  in  the  pockets  of  unpressed  trousers.  He  shrugged  shoulders  tweedy  with  dandruff,  pin-striped  by  fallen  hairs.  &quot;And  why,  may  I  ask,  are  we  al-  ways  disorganized.  We  had  no  prep-  aration.  That  meeting  could  have  been  called  at  least  an  hour  earlier.  I  must  say.  I  don't  know  how  we  can  look  the  standing  committee  in  the  [REDACTED];  In  Elphinstone's  pockets  invisi-  ble  sixpences  percussed,  with  a  bunch  of  keys  forming  the  brass.  He  looked  away.  &quot;And  sending  that  girl  in  half  dressed.&quot;  So  he  too.  Even  the  blanched  Ar-  mand.  There  was  no  use  hanging  about.  Elphinstone  had  rather  spoiled  things.  HE  following  day  there  was  something  else.  Christian's  own  secretary  was  leaving  for  her  summer  holiday.  &quot;And  what  have  they  got  in  mind  for  me?&quot;  As  he  asked  her  this,  he  knew.  &quot;They're  giving  you  a  girl  from  the  pool.  I'll  show  her  the  main  things.  A  Miss  Waring.  Or  Ware.  Of  course  there'll  be  chaos  by  the  time  I  get  back.&quot;  The  first  day,she  had  on  a  dressof  worn  brown  velvet,  her  hair  smooth-  ly  coiled.  Christian  was  a  man  of  few  words  all  that  morning,  thumping  down  this  or  that  for  three  copies;  this  has  priority,  do  that  in  draft.  He  could only  keep  it  up  till  lunchtime;  by  aft-  ernoon  he  was  wanting  to  sound  her  and  needing  her  good  opinion.  She  sat  taking  his  dictation,  and  hecould  hard-  ly  believe  he  had  her  there  at  his  tender  mercy:  he  felt  tender  but  not  merciful.  When  she  closed  her  book  he  said,  &quot;I  hope  you  weren't  kept  too  late  the  oth-  er  evening.&quot;  She  lifted  her  eyes,  blank.  He  felt  he  had  given  himself  away.  &quot;The  evening  of  the  Cabinet  an-  nouncement.&quot;  &quot;I  missed  the  train.  We  live  at  Dul-  wich.&quot;  Hesitant,  as  if  she  trespassed  on  his  interest  even  by  so  much  as  a  reply.  &quot;One  of  the  girls  let  me  stay  at  her  place.&quot;  &quot;You  did  not  have  to  cancel  any-  thing,  I  hope.&quot;  &quot;It  was  my  father's  birthday.&quot;  What  lives  we  give  them,  Christian  reflected-not  without  gratification:  Well,  that's  what  you're  there  for.  He  could  recognize  a  pleasure  in  displac-  ing  her  father,  with  whom  he  must  necessarily  stand-one  was  aware  of  such  things-in  rival  status.  Her  eyes  were  so  clear,  upward,  almost  circular,  washed  like  grey  glass.  He  saw  that  she  wished  to  please  him  :  I  hope  to  give  satisfaction  sir.  Her  voice,  like  her  dress,  was  doeskin,  an  excellent  thing  in  woman.  The  father  had  called  this  child  Cordelia.  When  he  heard  her  typing  he  made  a  pretext  to  stand  a  while  by  her  desk.  There  was  something  nearly  sexual  in  this,  like  the  relation  of  tenor  to  accompanist,  he  standing  and  com-  manding,  she  seated  and  subsidiary.  She  faintly  sweetly  smelt  of  talcum  or  shampoo.  Her  fingers,  grubby  from  carbon,  unnerved  by  his  proximity,  turned  six  copies  to  scrub  at  an  error.  He  saw  also  that  pages  were  spread  to  be  sorted.  A  &quot;Style  Manual&quot;-  what  style  could  there  conceivably  be  in  all  this'-was  open  to  instructions  of  inane  and  infinite  tedium.  I  have  the  honour  to  be,  Sir,  Your  Excel-  lency's  humble  and  obedient.  On  the  surface  of  the  desk  there  was  a  dust-  ing  of  molted  rubber  over  the  claw-  ings  and  droppings  of  a  score  of  previ-  ous,  vanished  secretary-birds.  Excellence  and  honor.  With  less  sat-  isfaction,  he  wondered,  Why  do  they  put  up  with  this?  He  all  but  placed  his  hand  on  her  brown  velvet  shoulder,  bidding  her  de-  part  in  peace.  He  could  very  nearly  feel  the  smooth  life  curve  into  his  palm-  and  at  that  instant  would  have  let  her  off,  wished  her  safe  from  all  his  harm,  while  she  was  so  anxiously,  innocently  bent  to  her  rubbishy  task.  " b"&quot;That  one  is  of  prime  importance,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;The  rest  can  wait.&quot;  From  his  room  he  heard  her  storm-  ing  the  keys,  the  rip  of  the  roller,  arpeggios  of  sentences,  the  andante  of  an  indented  passage.  A  distraught  ex-  clamation  for  a  false  note.  It  was  curi-  ous  that  a  machine  could  reproduce  the  anxiety  of  the  person  operating  it.  The  imagined  globe  of  her  velours  shoul-  der  stayed,  tremulous,  in  his  hand  still  cupped  to  its  contour.  If  he  had  touched  her,  it  would  not  have  resulted  in  her  departure  or  her  peace.  Evening  rose  like  dawn.  Aux  uns  portant  la  paix,  aux  autres  le  souci.  The  city  inhaled  it  like  a  breath  of  immense  relief.  A  wave  of  excitement  lifted  Christian  from  desk  to  win-  dow-where  the  metropolis  once  more  lay  helpless  and  expectant  under  a  dusk  phenomenal  as  an  eclipse.  A  cautious  man  would  have  looked  through  spe-  cial  glasses,  ora  hole  cut  in  cardboard.  With  the  naked  eye  Christian  gazed;  and  yet  again  knew  himself  to  be  gazing.  He  was  one  who  could  still  see  the  sky.  Who  knew  his  Yeats.  His  Baudelaire.  His  Freud.  Not  for  nothing  were  these  names  prefaced  by  the  possessive  pronoun.  He  was  tempted  to  ask  her  outright  to  go  to  dinner  with  him.  But  no,  not  outright;  and  not  the  first  evening.  Let  a  de-  cent  interval  elapse,  and  hope  the  weather  would  hold.  There  was  prodigality  in  this-they  had  so  little  time.  In  thought  he  said  &quot;they;&quot;  and  could  not  think  unjustified  this  newly  pos-  sessive  pronoun.  The  following  day  was  hot.  The  city  opened  all  its  windows  as  Christian  rode  to  work  in  his  car.  Down  to  tower'd  Camelot.  As  if  by  assignation,  she  wore  the  dress  of  the  cornflowers-  was  it?-and  her  hair  down.  He  had  heard  that  girls  were  ironing  their  hair  that  year,  in  order  to  wear  it  long  and  flat;  but  did  not  think  that  would  ap-  ply  toher.  It  would  not  be  pos-  sible  to  do  this  oneself-perhaps  their  mothers  did  it  for  them.  He  tried  to  picture  the  little  kitchen  at  Dulwich,  neat  as  a  new  pin,  the  mother  shapeless  in  flowered  apron,  and  she  with  her  head  laid  on  the  ironing  board.  It  was  like  an  execution.  It  was  a  simple  matter  to  de-  tain  her  after  work.  There  was  no  difficulty  in  manufacturing  a  crisis-most  crises  in  that  place  being  manufactured  ones-by  retarding  some  memorandum  into  the  afternoon.  When  she  came  back  at  two  from  her  hasty  sandwich  (he  assumed  the  sand-  wich,  noted  the  haste),  he  struck.  At  six  they  were  alone,  he  attentively  reading  over,  she  pounding.  He  got  up,  went  to  the  gents  to  spruce.  He  ran  water,  ran  a  comb,  ran  a  critical  eye.  Smiled  into  a  square  of  quicksilver  that  was  cracked  from  side  to  side.  Walk-  ing  back  along  the  inert  grey  arteries,  he  could  hear  the  machine  still  racing,  like  a  heart.  He  had  plumped  forthe  magiste-  rial  assertion:  &quot;I  am  going  to  drive  you  home.&quot;  Had,  of  course,  hoped  she  wouldn't  look  quite  so  bowled  over.  &quot;Let's  face  it&quot;-with  this  inter-  polation  Christian  habitually  reproved  a  widespread  tendency  to  shirk-  &quot;we're  going  to  be  another  half  hour  here,  at  least.  Might  as  well&quot;-fore-  gone  conclusion-&quot;have  a  bite  of  din-  ner  somewhere,  then  I'll  drive  you.&quot;  He  thought  he  detected  slight  equiv-  ocation-he  would  not  call  it  sus-  picion-mingling  with  her  astonish-  ment.  She  must  be  pleased,  however;  even  thrilled.  A  girl  who  passed  her  days  turning  carbons  would  welcome  any  diversion.  Your  Excellency's  hum-  ble  and  obedient.  Not  that  he  regarded  himself  as  any  diversion.  &quot;You  are  kind,&quot;  she  said,  without  causing  him  a  qualm.  She  was  in  the  car  at  his  side.  They  were  crossing  a  river,  the  river,  after  Chablis  and  [REDACTED]  sole.  It  was  by  no  means  dark.  Ahead,  the  smooth  com-  mon  was  an  innocence  of  late  cricket  balls  and  unleashed  terriers  and  elderly  couples  safely  benched.  (The  hanky-  panky  would  come  later,  with  night-  fall.)  The  trees,  though;  he  had  never  felt  it  before-such  trees,  like  clouds,  like  screens,  like  greatbouquets.  She  was  doing  this:  first  cornflowers,  now  trees.  Light-winged  Dryad,  beechen  green,  Rima  the  bird-girl  that  was  her     " b"type,  the  constant  nymph  what  was  her  name  Tess  of  the--no,  not  that:  Tessa.  All  this  at  Clapham.  He  would  have  liked  to  stop  the  car,  there  and  then,  just  to  look  at  the  trees;  and  would  have  taken  her  in  his  arms  almost  incidentally.  But  the  de-  cent  interval  must  elapse.  She  had  said  so  little,  everything  correct  and  nothing  foolish.  She  was  quite  still,  and  looked  at  the  evening  and  the  trees,  her  head  tipped  toward  the  seat  back  though  not  reclining.  They  drove  on,  along  suburban  avenues  for  which  he  felt  the  kindliness  one  sum-  mons  for  a  boyhood  friend  who  has  not  prospered.  &quot;You  turn  left  at  the  Col-  lege.&quot;  He  turned.  &quot;It's  along  here  on  the  right.  This  one.&quot;  He  had  been  confident  of  a  row  of  demoralized  asters,  three  front  steps,  a  porch  of  frosted  glass  glumly  bulging  from  brick.  And  could  not  have  been  more  irritated  if  she  had  deliberately  de-  ceived  him.  Not  thatthe  house  was  grand:  a  pretty  house,  white  but  eight-  eenth  century,  banked  with  fuchsia  along  a  brief  crescent  of  raked  gravel.  But  it  was  ahouse,  precisely,  of  the  sort  he  and  Grace  had  looked  at  and  decided  they  could  not  afford.  Every  window  was  lit.  It  was  like  a  party  house  described  in  a  novel:  &quot;ablaze,&quot;  (Christian  himself  preferred  to  switch  lights  off  when  not  in  use.)  Or  it  was  like  a  ship,  festive  and  state-  ly  with  all  her  canvas  up  and  pennants  fluttering.  On  the  ground  floor  a  silk  curtain  belled  through  French  win-  dows,  like  a  spinnaker.  He  pulled  up  at  the  door.  The  car  turned  shabby  in  the  glowfrom  the  house.  He  remembered  plastic  toys  on  the  rear  seat.  &quot;You'll  come  in.&quot;  She  was  almost  social  on  her  own  territory.  &quot;I'll  be  getting  back.  It's  late.&quot;  He  was  being  rude,  but  the  house  was  a  menace.  He  could  feel  the  father's  eye  on  him,  see  himself  blinking  in  the  lights,  shown  up  as  if  at  a  police  sta-  tion.  I  must  warn  you  that  anything  you  say  will  be.  Even  so,  heard  himself  announce,  &quot;Another  time.&quot;  And  boldly  leant  across  her  lap  to  manage  thedoor,  lay-  ing  his  hand  over  her  own  ineffectual  grip  as  if  sealing  a  contract.  &quot;Up  and  push,&quot;  he  said.  Then,  &quot;Give  it  a  good  bang.&quot;  A  Scots  terrier  scrambled  down  the  steps  to  her,  all  muzzle  and  paws  and  little  sprout  of  tail.  He  heard  her  say,     &quot;Here,  Hoots.  Here,  Hootsie,&quot;'  in  a  kind  of  ecstasy.  He  withdrew  to  town  in  confusion.  Definitely  a  reversal.  He  had  been  pre-  pared  for  his  role,  genial  but  restrained,  master  of  the  situation  in  the  modest  house  of  the  begonias  and  new-pin  kitchen;  helping  them  over  their  natu-  ral  diffidence.  Had  evenbeen  ready  for  a  possible  Socialist  brother  whose  surly  challenges  could  be  gracefully  de-  bunked.  But  distinctly  notprepared  for  the  equalizing  properties  of  Lowestoft,  Regency,  bound  editions,  a  faded  but  valuable  Samarkand;  and,  perhaps,  at-  tributed-to-Hoppner  over  the  original  fireplace.  Was  there  not,  in  fact,a  recognized  condition  called  the  Cophetua  Complex?  Or  had  he  made  that  up?  He  disliked,  moreover,  thesensation  of  the  narrow  squeak.  Reaching  home,  he  put  in  a  call  to  Grace.  This,  which  should  have  been  a  help,  was  not.  A  neighbor  had  dropped  in,  it  was  too  late  to  bring  the  children  to  the  phone,  just  one  second  I  have  to  turn  something  off.  Jeremy  had  been  disappointed  in  the  authentic  Round  Table,  which  they  had  paid  to  see  that  morning;  and  had  cried.  &quot;Anything  going  on  at  the  office?&quot;  &quot;This  dustup  in  Africa's  got  us  jumping.  Then  there's  always  the  Sec-  retary  of  State.  And  we're  short-  handed  as  usual.  They've  given  me  a  temporary.&quot;  Miss  Mellish  got  away,  then?&quot;  &quot;'There'll  be  chaos  by  the  time  she  gets  back.&quot;  He  put  the  phone  down  and  took  off  his  shoes.  He  could  see  the  House  of  Ware,  its  white  sails  crowding.  The  girl  bending,  in  that  doorway  lit  like  a  stage:  her  face  and  hands  active  with  love  as  she  reached  to  the  dog  scrab-  bling  in  a  ferment  at  her  ankles,  her  knees.  He  could  hear  her  speaking,  in  her  voice  of  an  articulate  doe;  he  could  feel  the  very  burr  in  the  animal's  coarse  coat.  He  could  scarcely  wait  for  tomorrow.  NEXT  morning  he  stowed  the  toys  away  in  the  boot  of  the  car.  The  weather  was  holding,  the  decent  in-  terval  elapsing.  A  Friday  sense  of  near-  abandon  enlivened  the  department,  as  if  something  other  than  an  English  weekend  lay  ahead.  There  was  a  lull  even  in  Africa,  where  crocodiles  idled  on  sluggish  waters  between  walls  of  motionless  bamboos.  The  sight  of  Cordelia  Ware  in  pink  printed  flowers  dispelled  the  defeat  of  Dulwich;  exorcising  the  spectre,  even,  of  Detective-Inspector  Father.  Only  Elphinstone  had  a  cold.  Elphinstone  was  flying  to  an  important  conference  in  42656c6769756dthat  evening,  and  was  concerned  about  effects  of  cabin  pressure  on  the  ears.  Christian  stood  by  Elphinstone's  desk.  &quot;All  set?&quot;  Elphinstone  coughed.At  first  phlegmlessly,  like  faulty  ignition,  the  engine  turning  over  and  over  till  it  caught.  He  pulled  a  handkerchief  from  his  pocket  in  a  flurry  of  lint.  Christian  turned  away  and  looked  at  two  framed  photographs  hung  beside  the  map  on  the  wall:  Elphinstone's  grandfather  in  diplomatic  dress;  and  a  weeding  party  of  British  residents  once  organized  by  Elphinstone  at  the  Eng-  lish  cemetery  on  Capri.  The  map  was  so  old  that  496e646961  was  pink.  At  last  Elphinstone  replied.  &quot;I  have  no  problem.&quot;  He  said  the  word  &quot;prob-  lem&quot;  with  sardonic  emphasis,  to  make  clear  he  knew  it  for  an  Americanism.  &quot;You  know  I'm  on  call  tomorrow.&quot;  Christian  was  duty  officer  for  the  weekend.  &quot;If  anything  blows  up.&quot;  Elphinstone  was  all  sympathy.  &quot;You're  not  having  much  of  a  sum-  mer.  I  must  say.  Losing  your  week-  end.&quot;  He  raised  the  clotted  handker-  chief  to  his  face  and  looked  at  Christian  over  it,  like  a  bandit.  &quot;And  working  late.&quot;  Christian  took  his  eyes  off  the  trow-  els,  grins,  and  brandished  dandelions  of  the  English  cemetery,  and  stared  El-  phinstone  down.  &quot;Not  to  worry.&quot;  When  Christian  went  out,  Elphin-  stone  hawked  once  more  into  his  hand-  kerchief,  and  spread  it  to  dry  on  the  ventilator  with  malodorous  result.  In  innocence  of  this,  in  all  inno-  cence,  Cordelia  Ware  glanced  up  from  her  scruffy  papers  as  Christian  came  through-her  look  a  refreshing  con-  trast  to  Elphinstone's.  Christian  sat  at  his  desk  signing  papers  and  vengefully  slinging  them  into  boxes.  He  felt  rage,  and  triumph.  Elphinstone's  eyes  above  the  bandanna  had  been  something  to  see.  Old  Gandolf  envied  me,  so  fair  she  was.  An  incompetent,  an  intoler-  able  fool  imposed  on  us,  let's  face  it,  because  his  grandfather  negotiated  a  disastrous  treaty  in  1908.  God,  if  the  public  only  knew.  The  afternoon  wore  on,  wore  out.  Steadily  relieved  of  the  ballast  ofearly  departures,  the  entire  floor  became  airy,  buoyant.  Miss  Ware-Cordelia-  brought  him  the  incoming.  The  lull  persisted,  extending  over  continents,  " b"taking  the  wind  out  of  Africa's  sails.  The  official  boom  swung  ineffectually  to  and  fro  in  the  global  Doldrums.  There  were  copies  for  information,  and  the  textof  a  ministerial  speech  which  would  not  now  be  delivered  owing  to  altered  circumstances.  There  were  papers  marked  PUS,  for  the  Permanent  Under  Secretary  of  State,  on  which  action  was  neither  contem-  plated  nor  required.  There  was  a  post-  card  of  the  rocks  at  Etretat  from  Miss  Mellish:  Hope  all  goes  well.  \xc2\xabMellish  is  in  Monet  country.&quot;  &quot;She  sent  me  one  too.&quot;  She  handed  it  to  him.  The  same  rocks:  I  forgot  to  mention,  just  leave  the  filing  for  my  return.  They  stood,  each  holding  a  card,  ticket  of  leave,  with  time  running  out.  He  could  not  be  mistaken  in  this  stillness.  The  phone  rang.  It  was  an  opposite  num-  ber  in  a  parallel  department.  &quot;Look  here,  Thrale.  We're  not  getting  the  picture  on  the  [REDACTED]  meeting.&quot;  &quot;What  more  do  you  want?  We're  sending  one  of  our  best  people.&quot;  &quot;No  reflection  on  your  nest,  old  boy.  Merely  a  mat-  ter  of  communication.&quot;  The  word  &quot;communication&quot;  was  given  the  arch  inflection  El-  phinstone  had  conferred  on  &quot;problem.&quot;  Grimacing  to  the  girl,  Christian  waved  the  receiver  in  a  show  of  exasperation.  He  had  never  committed  im-  proprieties  with  Miss  Mellish.  He  was  in  a  fever  for  the  day  to  end;  or  begin.  The  voice  twanged  on,  irresistibly  drawn  to  jargon  but  unwill-  ing  to  take  the  blame.  With  impatient  ball-point  Christian  scored,  on  the  blot-  ter,  the  outline  of  the  colored  postcard,  his  carnet  de  bal.  All  at  once  she  was  say-  ing,  &quot;If  there's nothing more. &quot;  and  holding  her  handbag.She  had  a  scarlet  cardigan  over  her  arm  and  was  mouthing  Goodbye,  Mr. Thrale.  It  had  never  oc-  curred  to  him  that  she  would  of  her  own  accord  leave  promptly.  Before  he  could  get  the  phone  down  she  was  gone;  and  in  the  corridor  nowhere  to  be  seen.  He  lost  his  head  completely  and  strode  out  to  stop  the  lift.  Only  Elphinstone  was  poised  be-  tween  the  lift  doors,  ready  to  plunge.  Elphinstone  grinned  at  Christian  over  his  shoulder,  and  raised  his  fingers  in  a  Victory  sign.  He  might  have  been  takinga  parachute  jump.  As  he  disap-  peared  his  hand  went  to  his  heart  as  if  fumbling  for  the  rip  cord.  Back  in  his  office,  Christian  stood  at  the  window  where  it  had  all  begun.  Disappointed  as  a  child  confronted  with  the  original  Round  Table.  He  was  unsure  of  what  he  had  intended,  but  definitely  not  this  prospect  of  brooding  through  a  failed  evening.  On  a  last  clangor  of  filing  cabinets  and  desk  drawers,  the  office  fell  silent.  All  across  [REDACTED],  girls  were  gliding  in  and  out  of  cars,  and  younger  men  were  leaning  over  saying,  &quot;Up  and  push.&quot;  Couples  were  lifting  trays  and  saying,  &quot;You  bring  the  ice,&quot;  and  the  garden  furniture  from  Harrods  was  outdoors  at  last.  Only  Christian  stood  disconsolate  by  his  office  casement.  Had  it  notbeen  for  the  crimson  sweater,  he  would  scarcely  have  cred-  ited  what  came  next.  She  was  crossing  the  street  below,  walking  slow  and  heading  for  the  park.  Or,  it  could  be,  for  the  [REDACTED];  but  one  does  not  walk  that  way  toward  a  train,  lifting  one's  head  to  the  sky  and  hitch-  ing  one's  woolly  casually  over  a  shoul-  der.  She  had  slim  legs  and  little  flat  shoes;  and,  like  all  her  movements,  her  walk  was  charming.  He  left  the  web,  he  left  the  loom.  In  three  paces  was  at  his  deskslam-     \n\n\n" b"ming  drawers  and  snatching  pen  and  spectacles.  He  retained  enough  pres-  ence  of  mind  to  grab  up  an  envelope  of  weekend  documents  as  a  prop.  When,  in  the  street,  he  had  her  in  view,  he  held  back  in  imaginary  relish  of  the  sweetness  of  it.  Stalking  her,  he  knew  an  assurance  of  happiness  such  as  he  had  never  felt  as  an  adult  and  which  was  incompatible  with  child-  hood.  Christian  had  been  in  love  as  a  lad,  and  as  a  young  man  ready  to  take  a  wife.  But  not  as  now  when,  quite  out  of  any  context,  representing  no  forces  other  than  those  beyond  his  control,  he  watched  Cordelia  Ware  in  a  frenzy  of  tenderness,  confused  be-  tween  worship  and  condescension.  He  overtook  her  as  she  was  turning  intothe  park.  He  was  the  soul  of  amia-  ble  surprise:  No  Dulwich?  She  ex-  plained,  the  evening  was  so  beautiful,  and  the  park.  They  passed  through  the  gateway  together.  They  were  drifting  past  banks  of  iridescent  flowers  and  among  cornelian  trees.  They  crossed  a  bridge  and  sat  on  a  bench  alone.  The  office  envelope,  whose  wadded  warm  sensation  had  grown  repugnantly  alive  in  Christian's  kand,  was  stationed  on  his  other  side  like  an  overzealous  ac-  complice.  Here  there  was  a  vast  repose,  the  earth  all  grass  and  the  sky  all  heaven;  although  waterfowl  were  squabbling  over  the  flung  crusts  and  a  newspaper  was  carried  past  with  an  atrocious  headline.  Somewhere  overhead,  El-  phinstone  was  safely  airborne,  swallow-  ing  hard  to  protect  his  ears  and  taking  an  extra  mint  from  the  proffered  dish  to  be  on  the  safe  side.  She  sat  straight,  not  in  a  gym-class  way,  with  her  fingers  intertwined  on her  crossed  knee;  and,  with  the  eve-  ning  on  her  hair  and  her  pale  skin,  was  all  light.  She  was  looking  at  him,  grave  and  listening.  Like  the  Muse:  patient,  but  accessible  only  to  those  acting  in  good  faith.  &quot;Will  you  dine  with  me?&quot;  It  was  his  most  humble  speech  to  her  yet.  Pink  flowers  rose  on  her  printed  breast.  &quot;If  that  is  all  right,&quot;  she  said.  He  did  not  know  how  to  treat  that  appeal  to  his  authority,  and  let  it  pass.  Anything  now  seemed  possible.  The  whole  world,  like  the  weekend,  lay  before  them.  He  had  not  forgotten  how  she  had  once  spent  the  night  in  town  with  a  friend;  even  at  the  time  he  had  filed  that  info  for  possible  future  use.  &quot;Won't  they  expect  you  at  home?&quot;  &quot;I'll  telephone.&quot;  He  did  not  wish  to  learn  what  she  would  say.  To  hell  with  Inspectre  Father.  They  would  sit  between  grass  and  sky  while  the  light  lasted,  and  later  he  would  take  her  to  dinner  at  a  little  place  off  Duke  of  York  Street  where  one  went  on  red-letter  days.  He  had  cashed  a  check  that  morn-  ing.  The  immeasurable  expansion  of  likelihood  shed  new  tolerance  on  every  mortal  thing:  the  subdued  honkings  of  human  enterprise  that  reached  them  from  the  road,  the  screech  of  an  in-  temperate  fowl  almost  at  their  feet,  the  couple  on  the  nearby  grass  whose  undulations  beneath  a  spread  mackin-  tosh  were  like  some  lewd  wink  in  their  own  direction;  the  iron  dukes  and  stone  admirals  fixed  atop  pedestals  and  columns.  All  were  appropriate  to  this  earth,  even  the  Guardsmen  in  their  vermilion  Mao  jackets  and  Afro  bus-  bies,  and  the  distant  reticulation  of  a  rising  skyscraper  against  whose  erec-  tion  Christian  had  recently  signed  a  petition.  Christian  was  removed  from  petti-  ness,  as  one  is  only  by  immeasurable  happiness  or  grief.  His  preoccupation  with  importance  had  unfitted  him  for  greatness:  he  was  a  man  of  vicarious  consequence  only;  but  in  those  mo-  ments  understood  the  large  hearts  of  heroes.  In  this  mood  the  evening  passed.  Christian  took  her  arm  at  the  first  green  light  and  did  not  release  it  until  they  reached  the  restaurant.  Over  din-  ner  he  talked  of  537061696e,  where  she  had  never  been-&quot;Let's  face  it,  537061696e  is  the  Prado&quot;-and  the  Hebrides,  where  she  had.  He  discovered  that  the  house  at  Dulwich  had  belonged  to  her  grandfather;  that  she  had  three  broth-  ers,  and  an  uncle  deafened  by  too  " b"much  quinine  during  a  dec-  ade  in  Bengal.  In  addition  to  the  Scottie  there  was  a  fringed  cat  called  Ruffles.  All  this--the  Grecos,  the  Cuillins,  the  uncle,  and  the  ruffled  cat-paraded  glitter-  ing  through  space  in  one  nar-  row  room.  They  walked  back  toward  the  car  through  the  broad  streets  and  capacious  squares  laid  out  in  narrower  times.  Scarcely  a  vehicle  passed  them;  not  a  soul  ascended  the  steps  of  the  right  clubs  or  issued  from  the  little  pe-  tuniaed  porticoes  of  the  great  corporations.  You  could  hear  a  footfall,  or  peal  of  laugh-  ter,  all  the  length  of  that  noble  and  unearthly  prome-  nade.  Christian  unlocked  the  car  door  for  her,  and  stood  hold-  ing  it  but  blocking  her  entry.  &quot;I  must  see  you.&quot;  &quot;I  know,&quot;  she  said.  He  let  go  of  the  door,  which  lurched  slowly  open  like  a  shutter  on  a  derelict  house.  Into  the  back  seat,  from  which  that  morning  he  had  put  away  childish  things,  he  hurled  his  envelope  of  bogus  papers.  He  drew  Cor-  delia  Ware  into  his  arms.   THEY-they-had  al-  most  three  weeks  before  Miss  Mellish  returned.  As  luck  would  have  it,  luck  held.  The  weather  also.  Africa  continued  quiescent,  Cor-  delia's  parents  left  for  the  Dordogne,  and  Grace  felt  the  extra  fortnight  would  do  the  boys  a  world  of  good.  Even  Elphinstone,  though  back  from  [REDACTED],  was  having  exten-  sive  work  done  on  his  teeth.  Christian  Thrale  took  Cordelia  Ware  by  her  perfect  little  elbow  in  vacant  evening  streets,  and  drew  her  to  him  in  silent  rooms.  He  leant  his  cheek  on  her  smooth  coiled  head,  and  took  her  golden  tresses-there  was  no  other  word  for  them-loose  in  in-  credulous  hands.  She  in  turn  slipped  her  arms  about  his  neck,  or  lifted  his  palm  to  her  face  and  kissed  it.  In  his  Hillman  Minx  they  crossed  and  re-  crossed  the  Rubicon  at  Battersea  Bridge.  alea  est.  They  sat,  as  he  had  dreamed  of  doing,  beneath  the  elegiac  trees.  As  far  as  Christian  was  concerned, these  delicious  proceedings  neverthe-  less  left,  quite  literally,  something  to  be  desired.  While  the  virginal  aspect  of  this  girl  had  first  attracted  him,  Time,  gentlemen,  was  not  on  our  side-what  with  Grace  consulting  timetables  and  Miss  Mellish  pushing  the  boat  out  from  the  Normandy  beachhead.  She  said,  &quot;I  am  happy  just  being  with  you.&quot;  Her  hand  along  his  arm  in  one  of  her  precise  and  fragile  gestures.  &quot;You  cannot  decently  complain  of  that.&quot;  He  laughed.  &quot;Then  indecently  I  complain.&quot;  It  was  hard  to  make  her  see  that  her  wishes  were  not  the  only  thing  to  be-rather,  that  she  herself  did  not  know  them.  It  would  be  unusual  if  she  turned  out  to  be-girls  these  days  were  not;  at  least,  not  by  the  time  one  met  up  with  them.  It  is  hard  to  say  which  of  her  limned  attitudes  most  delighted  him,  the  in-  tently  curved,  or  slimly  upright;  or  which  of  her  movements,  chaste  and  extravagant  as  those  of  a  ballerina.  She  had  this  way  of  looking-you  would  not  have  said  &quot;trustful&quot;  exact,  ly,  but  &quot;believing.&quot;  She  applied  to  one's  judgment.  She  put  simple  questions  with  genuine  inquiry,  as  if  wishing  to  discover  how  the  world  turned.  The  look,  the  appeals,  the  inquiries  had  the  effect  of  assigning  responsibility.  Chris-  tian  enjoyed  being  the  framer  of  con-  " b"stitutions,  the  dispenser  of  unalterable  law.  &quot;Your  Socratic  Method,&quot;  he  told  her,  taking  her  upturned  face  between  his  hands  and  smiling  down  from  the  stature  she  conferred.  She  did  not  ask  what  this  was,  but  maintained  unde-  flected  her  unfathomable  openness.  It  was  hard  tosee  how  a  lookcould  be  both  level  and  uplifted.  Never  in  any  circumstances  did  she  use  his  name,  his  Christian  name.  His  remarking  on  this  led  to  a  small  misunderstanding:  &quot;I  thought,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;you  would  not  like  that  in  the  office.&quot;  He  had  assumed  as  a  matter  of  course  she  would  not  use  it  there.  Some  things  went  without  saying.  One  day  she  asked  him,  &quot;Do  you  mind  the  deception?&quot;  He  said,  &quot;Somewhat  to  my  surprise,  no.&quot;  He  could  not  leave  himself  there,  and  went  on,  &quot;I  just  don't  want  peo-  ple's  feelings  to  get  hurt.&quot;  He  did  not  mean  hers.  It  was  not  until  the  end  of  the  final  week  that  he  had,  as  the  old  saying  goes,  his  way  with  her.  Christian  lived  in  a  crescent  of  Victorian  dwellings  that  had  once  been  ivory,  robust,  slight,  ly  irregular,  like  a  mouthful  of  sturdy  teeth;  but  were  now  pared,  drilled,  recapped,  and  made  uniform.  It  was  here  that,  locking  doors  and  drawing  curtains,  he  finally  lay  down  in  his  matrimonial  bed  with  Cordelia  Ware.  The  question  of  beds,  indeed,  could  not  be  gracefully  resolved.  It  was  ei-  ther  the  children's  or  his  own.  She  made,  in  this  regard,  one  of  her  in-  quiries:  &quot;Do  you  mind  it?&quot;  &quot;Not  in  the  least.&quot;  He  added,  &quot;This  is  my  side  anyway.&quot;  It  was  curious  how  abandon  begot  precaution.  It  was  that  very  evening  he  began  to  make  himself  clear,  &quot;I  shall  never  forget  this  Any  of  it.&quot;  Surely  she  could  not,  to  employ  her  own  phrase,  decently  complain  of  that.  He  told  her,  &quot;I  shall  be  wildly  jealous  of  the  man  you  marry.  I  hate  him  al-  ready.&quot;  She  lay  looking  at  the  ceiling,  eyes  wide  as  if  she  couldnot  close  them.  After  a  while  she  asked,  &quot;How  shall  we  go  on  now?&quot;  &quot;My  dear,  I  don't  know.&quot;  After  all,  he  was  not  an  oracle.  She  was  staring  up  as  if  scanning  the  heavens.  \xc2\xabWe'll  have  to  play  it  by  ear.&quot;  He  de-  livered  this  Americanism  with  the  El-  phinstone  intonation.  The  following  day,  he  telephoned  to  Winchester.  Grace  had  seen  Jane  Austen's  grave:  &quot;I  wish  you  had  been  here,  Chris.&quot;  &quot;The  only  one  I  like  is  'Pride  and  Prejudice.&quot;  &quot;  &quot;I  mean  here  this  summer.  It  will  never  beso  beautiful  again.&quot;  Their  days  apart,  and  nights,  their  divided  pleasures  pained  him.  She  was  speaking  of  the  Close,  the  roses,  the  labyrinth  of  streams,  and  the  meadows  beyond  the  school;  all  of  which  per-  turbed  him.  He  broke  in:  &quot;I  can't  hang  on  forever.  This  is  costing  the  earth.&quot;  OR  three  weeks  Christian  had  felt  himself  an  explorer  in  his  native  city.  Not  because  he  had  taken  Cor-  delia  Ware  much  about,  unless  you  count  once  to  Chiswick,  once  to  Greenwich,  and  the  Wallace  Collec-  tion,  where  they  did  not  get  upstairs.  But  because  the  visibility  had  cleared  for  him  as  for  a  smogbound  pilot,  dis-  closing  roofs  and  spires  and  gardens  and  the  congested  flow  of  roads  at  thrilling  and  dangerous  proximity;  re-  vealing  birds  in  flight  and  cats  walking  on  walls.  The  curves  of  earth  and  wa-  ter  had  become  landmarks  not  to  be  taken  for  granted.  Above  all,  he  had  perceived  in  the  human  form  the  sweet  glory  of  the  elms  and  oaks  of  Batter-  sea:  he  saw  men  as  trees  walking.  Now,  on  a  Monday  filled  with  nor-  mality,  a  morning  of  wives  ringing  the  butcher  or  going  through  trouser  pock-  ets  before  sending  to  the  cleaner,  Christian  travelled  once  again  by  Un-  derground.  And  Miss  Mellish  was  in  early,  sorting  the  backlog  and  mur-  muring,  &quot;I  don't  know  I'm  sure.&quot;  &quot;We  managed.&quot;  Loyally.  &quot;And  not  badly,  considering.&quot;  Miss  Mellish,  who  had  been  un-  lucky  with  the  fruits  de  mer  and  whose  back  had  gone  out  at  Chiteau  Gail-  lard,  was  forbearing:  &quot;She's  willing.  Which  is  saying  a  lot  these  days.&quot;  Christian  agreed.  &quot;Of  course  it's  not  like  having  you.&quot;  &quot;That's  experience,  Mr.  Thrale,&quot;  Mellish  told  him.  &quot;I  was  just  as  green  as  that  girl  myself,  in  the  beginning.  The  very  same.  We  all  have  to  begin  somewhere.&quot;  Christian  could  have  cried  out  for  the  pain  of  it.  Later  they  brought  him  a  form  to  fill  out,  on  the  performance  of  Cor-  delia  Ware.  He  wrote  that  she  was  willing;  that  she  could  take  responsi-  bility;  and  that  her  work  looked  neat  on  the  page.  Grace  came  home,  carrying  a  heavy  suitcase  and  a  crock  of  lavender  honey.  The  children  rampaged  through  the  house:  &quot;Where's  Bimbo?  I  can't  find  Bimbo.&quot;  &quot;Bimbo's  in  the  boot  of  the  car.&quot;  All  things  were  being  brought  to  light,  set  to  rights.  Except  Cordelia  Ware.  Limitless  vertiginous  space  was  contracting  to  a  decent  acreage.  A  place  for  everything  and  everything  in  its  place.  Cordelia  Ware  was  back  in  the  pool.  Christian's  situation  had  rather  abruptly  become  a  predicament.  To  feel  for  his  isolation  in  it,  one  must  understand  that  Cordelia  Ware  had  been,  as  she  was  to  remain,  the  most  impetuous  episode  of  Christian's  life.  By  far.  Other  precipitate  action,  in  combat,  office,  or  home,  having  been  sanctioned  or  demanded  by  the  social  order  and-even  when  carried  out  single-handed-performed  in  mighty  concert.  Only  in  the  Cordelia  Ware  undertaking  had  he  ventured  out  on  his  own-rushing  out-of-doors,  literal-  ly,  without  looking.  It  was  a  mutation  as  of  fish  to  land;  and  Christian,  gasp-  ing  on  the  bleak  shingle,  knew  him-  self  a  creature  of  the  ocean  and  the  shoal.  In  his  solitude  he  said,  &quot;I  blame  myself.&quot;  An  accusation  that  seldom  rings  entirely  true.  If  Christian  placed  blame  elsewhere,  then  it  was,  curiously  enough,  on  literature.  He  blamed-  but  that  was  not  the  word  -the  promptings  and  colorings  of  language,  that  put  sights  in  his  eyes  and  senti-  ments  in  his  heart.  He  felt  himself  importuned  by  echoes  that  preceded  utterance,  betrayed  by  metaphors  and  exaltations  that,  acquired  young,  could  never  be  eradicated.  Literature  was  a  good  servant  but  a  bad  master.  In  the  pool,  Cordelia  Ware  sat  straight  at  her  long-carriage  Under-  wood,  though  not  in  a  gym-class  way.  Budgetary  figures  were  being  pre-  pared:  the  machines  hurtled  violently  from  point  to  tabulated  point  like  shuttles  in  a  textile  factory.  She  no  longer  bent  intently  to  the  page,  and,  relieved  of  that  anxiety,  had  grown  " b"proficient.  The  supervisor  told  her,  &quot;There  you  are.  The  experience  has  done  you  good.&quot;  There  was  no  window.  She  looked  at  the  wall  where  a  window  might  have  been.  All  of  this  Christian  somehow  and  reluctantly  knew.  His  time  was  not  his  own.  Africa  was  tuning  up:  unpromis-  ing  sounds  rose  from  roofs  of  corru-  gated  iron,  and  even  from  the  Plexi-  glas  civic  centers  where  it  had  been  hoped  that  air-conditioning  would  lead  to  compromise.  The  situation  was  de-  teriorating.  He  contrived  to  meet  Cordelia  Ware  at  lunchtime  during  the  second  week,  in  a  pub  rather  far  from  the  of-  fice.  Although  he  was  prompt,  she  was  already  there  when  he  came;  and  if  she  had  had  the  sense  she  was  born  with  would  not  have  looked  so  hang-  dog.  The  weather  had  changed.  The  very  mornings  were  now  crepuscular.  Everywhere  there  were  signals  of  au-  tumn,  even  of  winter:  dark  afternoons,  spirals  of  petals  and  blown  leaves,  and  the  miners  threatening  strike.  Christian  put  the  newspaper  in  his  raincoat  pocket  and  sat  beside  Cordelia  Ware.  &quot;The  whole  world,&quot;  he  cau-  tioned  her,  &quot;is  going  up  in  smoke.&quot;  If  only  this  would  give  her  a  sense  of  proportion.  If  only  the  tinderbox  con-  dition  of  the  globe  would  obscure,  minimize,  or  even  make  irrelevant  his  own  dilemma.  &quot;It  will  be  a  bitter  winter,&quot;  he  an-  nounced;  and  she  looked,  looked.  &quot;If  the  miners  go  out.&quot;  He  could  not  now  say  whether  that  stare  was  steadfast  or  implacable-neither  being  entirely  de-  sirable.  &quot;No  one  can  deny,  of  course,  that  a  miner's  life  is  intolerable.&quot;  If  we  lose  our  humanity.  She  said,  &quot;People  are  on  their  side.  There  is  that.&quot;  Tepid  shandies  were  handed  over  the  counter,  and  he  paid.  &quot;I  mean,  they  are  heroes.  What  with  the  risk  and  the  pit.  We  all  know  it  is  frightful.  In  an  office  there  is  not  even  that.&quot;  He  did  not  like  this,  &quot;Aren't  you  dramatizing?&quot;  She  leant  back  against  the  Edwardi-  an  effect  of  quilted  plastic  leather,  her  head  frankly  reclining.  A  young  man  at  the  bar  looked  at  her  white  throat.  Christian  put  his  hand  on  hers,  on  her  knee  beneath  the  table.  Forgive  me,  Cordelia;  and  you  have  some  cause.  Her  eyes  at  once  met  his:  no  cause,  no  cause.  He  did  not  understand  his  own  irresolution-wanting  now  this,  now  that.  Still  less  could  he  see  why  vacilla-  tion  should  seem  at  present  his  only  virtue.  He  had  handled  it  badly  from  the  word  go.  And  if  that  word  have  not  quite  kil'd  thee.  In  books  and  films  The  Girl  brought  matters  to  a  head.  We  must  not  meet  again;  this  is  goodbye,  Mr.  Christian.  Like  most  banality,  the  for-  mula  was  now  seen  to  originate  in  fundamentals.  Cordelia  Ware  was  evi-  dently  notabout  to  avail  herself  of  her  unbearable  and  commendable  preroga-  tive.  She  took  up  a  parched  sandwich  whose  lifting  corners  bared  a  scaled  sardine.  She  left  the  tough  crusts  with  the  half-gherkin  on  her  plate  When  they  went  out  the  man  at  the  bar  " b"looked  at  her  openly,  tenderly,  ignor-  ing  Christian's  claim  or  seeing  through  It.  In  the  street  Christian  said,  &quot;You  had  an  admirer  in  there.&quot;  He  did  not  mean  himself. &quot;Yes.&quot;  Having  drawn  the  man  to  her  at-  tention,  he  was  displeased  to  find  she  had  seen  him.  In  no  time  obviously  she  will  take  up  with  someone  else.  You  iron  your  hair,  you  nickname  God's  creatures,  go  thy  ways.  In  the  taxi  she  sat  straight  in  a  cor-  ner  with  her  fingers  laced  on  her  knee.  So  many  fingers-there  must  have  been  the  right  number,  but  it  seemed  a  veritable  lattice  of  fingers,  fingers.  Beside  her  the  window  was  pitted  with  sudden  rain.  The  cab  darkened.  She  was  almost  facing  him  from  her  cor-  ner,  her  hair  the  only  bright  thing  and  her  eyes  the  color  of  rain.  The  window  clouded  like  a  spoilt  mirror,.  Christian  said,  &quot;My  word,  it's  close.&quot;  He  was  wondering  how  to  make  his  necessary  separate  exit  from  the  cab  in  the  sudden  downfall;  or  downpour.  He  was  wondering  if  after  all  he  did  not  love  this  incomparable  girl.  When  she  got  back  to  the  pool,  the  supervisor  was  saying,  &quot;'There  are  not  enough  long  carriages  to  go  round.&quot;  They  might  have  been  preparing  for  a  state  procession.  Scrolls  of  lined  paper  were  distributed  like  proclamations:  &quot;If  you  roll  it  in  reverse  it  goes  flat.&quot;  Cordelia  Ware  sat  before  her  long-  carriage  typewriter  with  head  bowed,  as  if  saying  Grace.  Christian,  coming  out  of  a  discreet-ly  later  lift,  looked  about  him  with  alertly  upward  head,  like  a  hound  that  has  lost  the  scent.  From  the  region  of  the  pool  there  came  the  sound  of  type-  writers  ticking  in  measured  despera-  tion,  like  last  messages  from  the  bridge.  He  remembered  her  bitter  speech:  the  risk  and  the  pit.  &quot;Back  to  the  salt  mines.&quot;  It  was  Elphinstone,  himself  late  from  a  root,  canal  job.  They  loitered.  The  news  was  ominous.  Could  not  have  come  at  a  worse  time  either,  what  with  Barger  still  on  Mykonos  and  Talbot-Sims  on  antibiotics.  Elphinstone  had  the  latest  about  the  Secretary  of  State.  &quot;Dropped  a  brick  and  lost  his  mar-  bles.  The  Emperor  Augustus,  what?&quot;  Reaching  the  end  of  a  corridor,  they  wheeled  and  walked  slowly  back,  like  a  palace  guard.  &quot;I  happened  to  have  the  opportunity  of  ob-  serving  him  at  close  quarters.&quot;  Elphinstone  had  once  briefly  sat  in  the  front  seat  of  a  car  in  which  Cabinet  mem-  bers  were  rear  passen-  gers.  &quot;There  is,  quite  frankly,  no  discretion.  None  whatever.&quot;  They  were  at  Chris-  tian's  door;  yet  El-  phinstone  detained,  Elphinstone  deplored.  There  was  earnestness  in  it.  &quot;Take  it  from  me,  Thrale.  I  cannot  claim  to  have  achieved  much  in  my  life.  I  must  say.  But  what-  ever  I  have  achieved  has  been  by  observing  the  rules,  We  cannot  be  too  scrupulous.&quot;  Whether  these  words  were  intended  for  Christian  was  debat-  able.  The  debate  en-  gaged  him  throughout  that  afternoon.  Culpa-  bility,  unfelt  for  Grace  or  Cordelia,  was,  in  re-  gard  to  the  office,  deep-  ly  stirred.  And  what  of  the  rising  cake  of  Christian  Thrale?  Per-  haps  [REDACTED]  meant  well,  no  friend  like  an  old  friend,  a  word  to  the  wise.  A  stitch  in  time.  Or  was  worse  to  follow?-Christian  literally  on  the  car-  pet,  called  into  a  room  quiet  with  authority,  a  door  closing,  a  chief  " b"saying,  &quot;&quot;Your  private  life,  Thrale,  is  of  course  your  own  business,&quot;  and  mean-  ing  of  course  it  was  not.  And  they  cross'd  themselves  for  fear,  All  the  knights  at  Camelot.  But  he  was  letting  imagination  run  away  with  him.  Run,  in  fact,  riot.  Reasonable  speculations  commuted  madly,  repudiated  at  the  frontiers  of  belief.  The  most  innocuous  appoint-  ment  became  a  summons  to  social  and  professional  doom.  He  completed  the  day's  tasks  with  attention  wrackingly  divided.  Hanging  like  a  dead  weight  from  a  strap  in  the  [REDACTED],  he  thought,  This  cannot  go  on;  I  am  be-  having  like-well,  like  Raskolnikov.  The  risk  and  the  pit.  That  evening  he  was  distraught,  though  he  did  not  show  it,  throughout  a  benefit  perform-  ance  for  which  Grace  had  bought  ex-  pensive  tickets  months  beforehand.  NEXT  morning  there  was  an  ap-  palling  development:  Cordelia  Ware  appeared  in  his  office.  She  stood  in  the  doorway-he  later  fancied  she  had  leant  against  the  lintel,  but  this  grotesque  embellishment  merely  reflected  the  dread  the  incident  in-  spired.  (He  imagined,  too,  for  example,  that  her  look  had  been  challenging;  whereas  at  the  time  its  most  awful  ele-  ment  had  been  abjection.)  Through  a  stroke  of  immense  good  fortune,  Miss  Mellish  was  not  in  sight.  Christian  got  up  from  his  desk-and  it  seemed  that  year  he  was  ever  sinking  down  or  rising  up  at  that  desk,  as  if  at  some  anchorage  or  place  of  prayer.  &quot;Cordelia,&quot;  he  said  urgently,  coming  over  to  prevent  her  approach,  &quot;I  can-  not  possibly.  This  is  not  the  place  for.  The  last  thing  either  of  us  wants  is.&quot;  It  was  hideous.  From  her  expres-  sion,  she  might  have  done  anything:  wailed,  wept,  made  havoc  of  his  draft  report.  He  took  her  elbow  -the  sen-  sation  charged  with  almost  clinical  impersonality,  as  if  she  had  been  a  patient  in  a  hospital-and  steered  her  for  departure.  Her  very  submissiveness  alarmed.  He  was  talking,  talking:  &quot;We  mustn't  lose  our.  Let  things  get  out  of.  This  serves  no  useful.  Cordelia  do  be.&quot;  She  had  not  said  a  word.  She  went.  The  terrible  receded,  with  labored  breaths,  into  the  highly  regrettable.  A  time  and  place  for  everything.  She  does  not  know  her  place.  The  position  had  already  been  filled.  Under  existing  conditions  there  was  in  fact  no  time  or  place  for  Cordelia  Ware.  The  girl  was  obviously  neurotic.  All things  considered  hecould  congratulate  himself  on  a  narrow  squeak.  There  was  no  telling  what  she  might  or  might  not.  It  would  be  appalling  if-but  that  was  out  of  the  question.  Only  in  plays.  [REDACTED].  The  awful  apparition  in  his  doorway  was  in  retrospect  suggestive  ofa  Mad  Scene.  Everything  in  disarray.  The  trees  shredding,  the  shrubbery  tousled  with  rain;  the  sails  of  Dulwich  furled  and  the  wind  whistling  in  the  shrouds.  It  was  time  to  call  a  halt,  there  and  then.  With  some  difficulty,  Christian  ar-  ranged  to  meet  Cordelia  Ware  after  work.  He  telephoned  Grace,  blaming  Africa.Rising,  at  six,  from  the  launch-  ing  pad  of  his  desk,  he  could  only  re-  mind  himself,  like  a  child,  that  at  this  time  tomorrow  it  would  all  be  over.  To  make  a  long  story  short-which  was  the  way  Christian  put  it  to  himself  in  later  years,  in  the  synopsis  of  re-  membrance-he  made  himself  clear,  once  and  for  all.  There  was  nothing  for  it  but  the  clean  break.  It  was,  as  he  told  her,  the  hardest  thing  he  had  ever  had  todo.I  blame  myself.  If  I  have  hurt  you,  Cordelia.  IF,  she  said;  and  in  such  a  voice.  If,  as  I  say,  I  have  hurt  you.  Harrowing.  He  had  never  seen  anyone  cry  in  a  restaurant-not  even  at  another  table.  It  was  bizarre  to  think  he  had  originally  been  attracted  by  her  reserve.  He  said,  &quot;I  think  I  have  learnt  my  lesson.&quot;  She  leaned  her  elbow  on  the  table  and  her  brow  on  her  hand.  Strands  of  hair  stuck  along  her  cheek,  and  trailed  over  her  ear.  In  his  heart,  as  the  un-  conscious  used  to  be  called,  he  knew  he  had  asked  for  this;  but  loathed  everysecond  of  it.  Thank  God  he  did  not  have  the  car.  He  took  her  to  the  train.  Inevita-  bly  they  had  just  missed  one.  People  glanced  in  their  direction,  and  away.  She  said,  &quot;Please  go.  Please  go.&quot;  But  he  stuck  it  out  to  the  bitter  end.  He  had  been  young  once  himself,  and  felt  her  suffering  as  if  it  were  his  own.  After  all,  he  was  not  made  of  wood.  There  is  no  question  here  of  de-  fending  his  conduct,  which  was  inex-  cusable  from  beginning  to  end.  If,  however,  he  had  not  felt  a  colossal  re-  lease  when  that  train  at  last  pulled  out,  he  would  scarcely  have  been  human.  "