 b"Oct.  31.  I  have  long  been  a  pot-ter,  a  bachelor,  and  a  leper.  Leprosy  is  not  exactly  what  I  have,  but  what  in  the  Bible  is  called  leprosy  (see  Leviticus  13,  Exodus  4:6,  Luke  5:12-13)  was  probably  this  thing,  which  has  a  twisty  Greek  name  it  pains  me  to  write.  The  form  of  the  disease  is  as  follows:  spots,  plaques,  and  avalanches  of  excess  skin,  manufac-  tured  by  the  dermis  through  some  trifling  but  persistent  error  in  its  meta-  bolic  instructions,  expand  and  slowly  migrate  across  the  body  like  lichen  on  a  tombstone.  I  am  silvery,  scaly.  Pud-  dles  of  flakes  form  wherever  I  rest  my  flesh.  Each  morning,  I  vacuum  my  bed.  My  torture  is  skin  deep:  there  is  no  pain,  not  even  itching;  we  lepers  live  a  long  time,  and  are  ironically  healthy  in  other  respects.  Lusty,  though  we  are  loathsome  to  love.  Keen-sighted,  though  we  hate  to  look  upon  ourselves.  The  name  of  the  disease,  spiritually  speaking,  is  Humiliation.  I  have  come  back  from  Copley  Square,  to  this  basement  where  I  pot.  Himmelfahrer  was  here  this  morning,  and  praised  my  work,  touching  the  glazes  and  rims  in  a  bliss  erotic  and  financial  both.  He  is  my  retailer,  my  link  with  the  world,  my  nurturing  umbilicus.  Thanks  to  him  I  can  crouch  unseen  in  clayey,  kiln-lit  dimness.  His  shop  is  on  Newbury  Street.  Everything  there  is  beautiful,  expensive,  blemish-  less;  but  nothing  more  so  than  my  ceramics.  If  the  merest  pimple  of  a  captured  dust  mote  reveal  itself  to  my  caress,  I  smash  the  bowl.  L  The  vaguest  wobble  in  the  banding,  and  damnation  and  destruction  ensue.  He  calls  me  a  genius.  I  call  myself  a  leper.  I  should  have  been  smashed  at  birth.  Tomorrow  begins  my  cure.  I  ventured  out  for  lunch  to  celebrate  this,  and  to  deposit  Himmelfahrer's  mammoth  check,  Bos-  ton  was  impeccable  in  the  cold  October  sunlight,  glazed  and  hardened  by  sum-  mer.  The  blue  skin  of  the  proud  new  Hancock  folly  rose  sheer  and  unfrac-  tured  into  asky  of  the  same  blue,  mir-  rored.  For  a  time,  the  building  had  shed  windows  as  I  shed  scales,  and  with  more  legal  reverberation,  but  it  has  been  cured,  they  say.  I  look  toward  it  still,  hoping  to  see  some  panes  miss-  ing,  its  perfection  still  vulnerable.  The  strange  yellow  insect  that  cleans  its  windows  is  at  work.  In  its  lower  sur-  faces  Trinity  Church,  a  Venetian  fan-  tasy  composed  of  two  tones  of  tawny      stones,  admires  itself,  undulating.  The  Square  itself,  a  cruel  slab  laid  upon  Back  Bay's  heart,  is  speckled  with  sur-  vivors-the  season's  last  bongo  drum-  mer,  the  last  shell-necklace  seller,  the  last  saffron  frond  of  Hare  Krishna  chanters.  They  glance  at  me  and  glance  away,  pained.  My  hands  and  my  face  mark  me.  In  a  month  I  can  wear  gloves,  but  even  then  my  face  will  shout,  Enormity:  the  livid  spots  beside  my  nose,  the  crumbs  in  my  eyelashes,  the  scurvy  patch  skipping  along  my  left  cheek,  the  silver  cupped  in  my  ears.  A  bleary  rummy  in  a  flapping  overcoat  comes  up  to  me  and  halts  his  beggar's  snarl,  gazing  at  my  visage  amazed.  I  give  him  a  handful  of  coin  nonetheless.  Light  beats  on  my  face  mercilessly.  In  the  shadows  of  Ken's,  I  order  matzo-ball  soup  and  find  it  tepid.  Still,  it  is  delicious  to  be  out.  The  waitress  is  glorious,  her  arms  pure  kaolin,  her  chiselled  pout  as  she  scribbles  my  order  a  masterpiece  of  Sevres  biscuit.  When  she  bends  over,  setting  my  pastrami  sandwich  before  me,  I  want  to  hide  forever  between  her  cool,  perfect,  yet  flexible  breasts.  She  glances  at  me  and  doesnot  know  I  am  a  leper.  If  I  bared  my  arms  and  chest  she  would  run  screaming.  A  few  integuments  of  wool  and  synthetic  fibre  save  me  from  her  horror;  my  enrollment  in  humanity  is  so  perilous.  No  wonder  I  despise  and  adore  my  fellow-men-adore  them  for  their  normal  human  plainness,  despise  them  for  not  detecting  and  destroying  me.  My  hands  would  act  as  be-  trayers,  but  while  eating  I  move  them  constantly,  to  blur  them.  Picking  the  sandwich  up,  my  right  hand  freezes;  I  had  forgot-  ten  how  hideous  it  was.  Usually,  when  I  look  down,  itis  covered  with  clay.  It  has  two  garish  spots,  one  large  and  one  small,  and  in  the  same  relation  to  one  another  as  [REDACTED]  and  Tasma-  nia.  The  woman  next  to  me  at  the  counter,  a  hag  in  pancake  makeup  and  mink,  glances  down  with  me.  Involun-  tarily  she  starts.  Her  fork  clatters  to  the  floor.  Deftly  I  pick  it  up  and  place  it  on  the  Formica  between  us,  so  she  does  not  have  to  touch  me.  Even  so,  she  asks  for  another.  ov.  1.  The  doctor  whistles  when  I  take  off  my  clothes.  &quot;Quite  a  case.&quot;  But  he  is  sure  I  will  respond.  &quot;We  have  this  type  of  light  now.&quot;  He  is  from  [REDACTED],  oddly,  but  does  not  linger  over  the  spots  on  my  hand.  &quot;First,  a  few  photographs.&quot;  The  floor  of  his  office,  I  notice,  is  sprinkled  with  flakes.  There  are  other  lepers.  At  last,  I  am  not  alone.  He  squints  and  squats  and  clicks  and  clucks.  &quot;Good  seventy  per  cent  I  would  say.&quot;  He  has  me  turn  around,  and  whistles  again,  more  soft-  ly.  &quot;Then  some  blood  tests,  pro  forma.&quot;  He  explains  the  treatment.  In-  ternal  medication  will  open  me  like  a  flower  to  lengthening  doses  of  light.  His  own  skin  bears  the  dusty-rose  ebb  of  a  summer's  tan.  His  scalp  is  flaw-  lessly  bald  and  dreamily  smooth.  I  wonder  what  perversity  drove  him  into  dermatology.  &quot;When  you  clear,&quot;  he  says  casually,  toward  the  end.  When  I  clear!  The  concept  is  staggering.  I  want  to  swoon,  I  want  to  embrace  him,  as  one  embraces,  in  primitive  so-  cieties,  a  madman.  On  his  desk  there  is  a  tawdry  flesh-pink  mug  with  a  tea  bag  in  it,  and  I  vow  to  make  him  a  perfect  teacup  if  he  makes  good  his  promise.  &quot;Nasty  turn  in  the  weather  today,&quot;  he  offers,  buttoning  up  his  camera;  but  it  is  a  lame  and  somehow  bestial  business,  polite  conversation  be-  tween  two  men  of  whom  one  is  dressed  and  the  other  is  naked.  As  I  drag  my  clothes  on,  a  shower  of  silver  falls  to  the  floor.  He  calls  it,  profes-  sionally,  &quot;scale.&quot;  I  call  it,  inwardly,  filth.  I  told  Carlotta  tonight  of  his  casual  promise  to  make  me  &quot;clear.&quot;  She  says  she  loves  me  the  way  I  am.  &quot;How  can  you!&quot;  I  blurt.  She  shrugs.  She  was  late  this  evening,  having  been  hours  at  de-  votions.  It  is  All  Saints'  Day.  We  make  love.  Stroking  her  buttocks,  I  think  of  the  doctor's  skull.  Nov.  8.  First  treatment.  The  &quot;light  box&quot;&quot;  has  six  sides  lined  with  vertical  tubes.  A  hexagonal  prism,  as  the  Han-  cock  Tower  is  a  rhomboidal  prism  and  a  Toblerone  chocolate  bar  is  a  triangu-  lar  one.  A  roaring  when  it  switches  on,  so  one  has  astronautical  sensations;  also  sensations  of  absurdity,  standing  nude  as  in  a  &quot;daring&quot;  play  where  the  stage  lights  have  consumed  the  audience.  The  attendant,  a  tremulous  young  man  with  a  diabolically  pointed  beard,  gave  me  goggles  to  protect  my  retinas;  I  look  down.  I  am  on  fire!  In  this  kiln  my  feet,  my  legs,  my  arms,  wherever  there  are  scales,  glow  with  a  violet,  white  intensity  like  nothing  but  certain  moments  of  developing  prints  in  a  dark-  room  pan,  To  make  sure  the  legs  are  mine,  I  do  a  little  dance.  The  Dance  of  Shiva,  his  body  smeared  with  ashes,  his  hair  matted  and  foul.  My  legs,  chalky  as  logs  about  to  fall  into  embers,  vibrate  and  swing  in  the  cleansing  fire.  The  dance  is  short-lived;  the  first  dose  " b"is  but  a  minute.  The  box  has  a  nasty,  rebuking  snort  when  it  shuts  off.  Dressed,  stepping  out  from  behind  the  curtain,  I  make  future  arrange-  ments  with  the  attendant  and  wonder  what  has  led  him  into  work  of  this  sort.  Dealing  with  people  like  me  is  a  foul  business,  I  am  certain.  Nov.  12.  No  perceptible  change.  Car-  lotta  tells  me  to  relax.  Dr.  Aus  (his  real  name  keeps  escaping  me)  says  two  weeks  pass  before  the  first  noticeable  effects.  Himmelfahrer  tells  me  Christ-  mas  is  coming.  I  work  past  midnight  onan  epic  course  of  vases,  rimmed  and  banded  with  a  very  thin  slip  tinctured  with  cobalt  oxide,  'The  decoration  should  not  strike  the  appraiser  at  first  glance;  he  should  think  first  &quot;vase,&quot;  and  then  &quot;blue,&quot;  and  then  &quot;blue  and  not-blue.&quot;  The  Chinese  knew  how  to  imbue  this  mystery,  this  blush  in  the  glaze,  this  plenitude  of  nothingness.  I  scorn  incision,  sgraffito,  wax  resist,  re-  lief.  Smoothness  is  the  essence,  the  fin-  gers  must  not  be  perturbed.  The  wheel  turns.  My  hand  vanishes  up  past  the  wrist  into  the  orifice  of  whistling,  whispering  clay,  confiding  the  slither  of  its  womb-wall  to  me,  while  the  previous  vase  dries.  My  dose  was  two  minutes  today.  The  disease  is  frightened.  Its  surface  feigns  indifference,  but  deeper  it  itches  with  subtle  rage,  so  that  I  cannot  sleep.  It  has  spread  across  my  shoulders,  to  the  insides  of  my  arms,  to  my  finger-  nails,  whitening  and  warping  them  with  ridges  that  grow  out  from  be-  neath  the  cuticle  like  buried  terrors  coming  to  light.  Nov.  13.  I  have  been  taken  off  the  treatment!  A  leper  among  lepers,  doubly  un-  touchable.  Aus  says  my  antibody  count  is  sin-  isterly  high.  &quot;A  few  more  tests,  to  be  on  the  safe  side.&quot;  Tells  me  stories  of  other  lepers-cardiac  patients,  claus,  trophobes,  arthritics-who  had  to  be  excluded.  &quot;Don't  want  to  cure  the  disease  and  kill  the  patient.&quot;  Please  do,  I  beg  him.  He  tut-tuts,  his  Com-  monwealth  sanity  recoiling  from  our  dark  American  streak.  Tells  me  that  like  all  lepers  I  have  very  naturally  &quot;fallen  in  love  with  the  lights.&quot;  I  cannot  work,  I  cannot  smile.  I  know  now  the  box  exists,  that  is  the  torture.  It  is  there,  out  there,  a  magical  prism  in  this  city  of  dungeons  and  coffins  and  telephone  booths.  Bos-  ton,  that  honeycomb  of  hospitals,  has  a  single  hexagon  of  divine  nectar,  a  de-  compression  chamber  admitting  me  to  Paradise,  and  it  is  locked.  I  marvel  at,  in  the  long  historyof  trapped  mankind,  the  inability  of  our  thoughts  to  trans-  port  bodies,  to  remove  them  cell  by  cell  from  the  burning  attic,  the  sunk  submarine.  Mine  is  the  ancient  prayer,  Deliver  me.  Carlotta  says  that  all  her  prayers  are  that  I  be  granted  the  strength  and  grace  to  bear  my  disap-  pointments.  A  vapid  petition,  I  narrow-  ly  refrain  from  telling  her.  Confession-  " b"als,  lavatories,  one-room  apartments,  tellers'  booths-they  rattle  through  my  mind  like  dud  machine-gun  car-  tridges.  I  want  to  be  in  my  light  box.  Nov.  15.  Blood  tests  all  morning.  The  nurse  drawing  the  samples  from  my  veins  looms  comely  as  the  dawn,  solid-muscled  as  a  young  puma.  She  handles  my  horrible  arm  without  comment.  I  glance  down  and  imagine  that  the  leprosy  on  its  underside  shines  less  brightly.  She  chatters  over  my  head  to  a  sister  nurse  of  childish  things,  of  downtown  movies  and  horny  internes  and  TV  talk  shows,  her  slender  jaw  ruminating  on  a  wad  of  chewing  gum.  In  her  forgetfulness  of  me,  as  I  fill  vial  after  vial,  her  breasts  drift  in  their  starched  carapace  inches  from  my  nose.  I  want  to  nurse,  to  counteract  the  outward  flow  of  my  blood.  Yin  and  yang,  mutually  feeding.  Carlotta,  coming  tonight  to  console  me,  finds  me  almost  excessively  manly.  Nov.  18.  Dreams.  I  am  skiing  on  a  white  slope,  beneath  a  white  sky.  I  look  down  at  my  feet  and  they  are  also  white,  and  my  skis  are  engulfed  by  the  powder.  I  am  exhilarated.  Then  the  dream  transfers  me  to  an  interior,  a  ski  hut  where  the  white  walls  merge  into  the  domed  ceiling  indistinguishably.  There  is  an  Eskimo  maiden,  muscular,  brown,  naked.  I  am  dressed  like  a  doctor,  but  more  stiffly,  in  large  white  cards.  I  awaken,  im-  mensely  ashamed.  In  the  negative  print  of  this  dream,  I  am  sitting  on  a  white  bowl  and  my  excrement  overflows,  unstoppably,  un-  wipably,  engulfing  my  feet,  my  thighs  in  patches  Itry  to  scrape.  I  awaken  and  am  relieved  to  be  in  bed,  between  clean  sheets.  Then  I  look  at  my  arms  in  the  half-light  of  dawn  and  a  nightmarish  horror  sweeps  over  me.  This  is  real.  This  skin  is  me,  I  can't  get  out.  Himmelfahrer  adores  my  new  vases.  He  fairly  danced  with  anticipation  of  his  profit,  stroked  their  surface-  mat  white  and  finely  crackled  a  la  early  T'ang  ware-as  if  touching  some-  thing  holy.  I  feel  his  visits  indig-  nantly,  as  invasions  of  my  cave  of  dimness.  I  wear  gloves  at  all  times  now,  save  when  molding  the  clay.  If  I  could  only  wear  a  mask-ski,  African,  Halloween-my  costume  would  be  impregnable.  3  a.m.  I  was  in  a  dark  room.  A  nar-  row  crack  of  light  marked  a  doorway.  Itiptoed  near,  seeking  escape,  and  there  is  no  door  to  open;  the  light  is  a  long  fluorescent  tube.  I  grip  it  and  it  is  my  own  phallus.  Nov.  22.  Miracle  Aus  called  before  nine  and  said  the  tests  appear  normal;  the  first  must  have  been  a  lab  error.  It  showed,  he  confessed,  that  I  was  fa-  tally  ill  with  lupus,  and  ul-  traviolet  light  was  pure  poi-  son  to  me.  I  am  reinstated.  Come  Thursday  and  re-  sume.  Carlotta  brings  cham-  pagne  this  evening  to  cele-  brate,  and  I  am  secretly  of-  fended.  She  does  not  love  me  the  way  I  am,  appar-  ently.  She  shyly  asks  if  I  want  to  give  thanks  and  I  coldly  reply,  &quot;To  whom?&quot;  Nov.  25.  The  attendant  welcomed  me  back  without  enthusiasm  or  acknowledg-  ment  of  my  hiatus.  His  face  pale  as  candle  tallow  above  the  wispy  inverted  flame  of  his  beard.  I  scan  the  rem-  nant  of  his  face  left  beard-  less  and  detect  no  trace  of  leprosy.  Also,  my  fellow-  lepers,  piled  like  so  many  overcoats  in  the  tiny  anteroom,  waiting  for  their  minutes  of  light,  have  perfect  skin  to  my  eyes.  Most  are  men  :  squat,  swarthy,  ostentatiously  dapper  types-rug  or  in-  surance  salesmen,  their  out-of-season  tans  bespeaking  connections  in  [REDACTED].  There  is  a  youngish  woman,  too.  Her  skin  is  so  deeply  brown  her  lips  look  pale  by  contrast.  She  sits  primly,  as  before  confession.  Her  plump  throat,  her  tapered  fingers  and  round  wrists  betray  a  sumptuous  body-the  brown  vision  of  my  Eskimo  maiden,  adipose  to  withstand  the  embrace  of  ice.  I  follow  her  in  with  my  eyes,  see  her  feet  step  out  of  their  shoes  beneath  the  white  curtain,  and  then  be  disengaged  by  a  naked  hand  from  the  silken  tangle  of  fallen  tights.  Desire  fills  me.  I  take  my  own  turn,  in  an  adjacent  box,  with  some  impatience,  as  something  my  due,  like  breathing,  like  walking  on  un-  broken  legs.  My  time  is  two  minutes-  where  I  left  off.  It  seems  longer.  I  fall  to  counting  the  tubes,  and  notice  that  one  is  burnt  out.  I  discover,  touch,  ing  it  to  effect  a  repair,  that  all  the  tubes  are  touchable,  they  are  not  the  skin  of  the  sun.  I  tell  the  attendant  of  the  malfunctioning  tube,  and  he  nods  bleakly.  And  walking  home,  through  the  " b"twilight  that  comes  earlier  and  earlier,  I  look  up  and  see  that  a  pane  has  fallen  from  my  beloved,  vexed  Hancock  Tower.  It  wasn't  in  the  newspapers.  And  Himmelfahrer,  his  rather  abra-  sive  voice  close  to  tears,  calls  to  cry  that  two  of  the  vases  have  turned  up  cracked  in  his  storeroom.  In  the  mood  of  benevolence  that  the  renewal  of  my  treatment  has  imbued  me  with,  I  vol-  unteer  that  the  flaw  may  have  been  in  my  firing,  and  we  agree  to  share  the  loss.  He  is  grateful.  DEC.  7.  I  am  up  to  eight  minutes.  Carlotta  says  that  my  skin  feels  different.  She  confesses  that  my  bumps  had  become  a  pattern  in  her  mind,  that  my  shoulders  had  felt  as  dry  and  ragged  to  her  fingers  as  unplaned  lumber,  that  she  hadhad  to  steel  her-  self  to  touch  me  ardently,  fearful  that  I  would  hurt.  It  had  startled  her,  she  says,  to  wake  up  in  the  morning  and  find  herself  dusted  with  my  flakes.  She  confides  all  this  light-  ly,  uncomplainingly,  but  her  tone  of  relaxation  implies  that  a  trial  for  her  is  past.  I  had  dared  dream  that  I  was  beautiful,  if  not  in  her  eyes  and  to  her  touch,  then  in  her  heart,  in  the  glow-  ing  heart  of  her  love.  But  even  there,  I  see  now,  I  was  a  leper,  loved  in  one  of  those  acts  of  inner  surmounting  that  are  the  pride  and  the  insufferable  van-  ity  of  the  female  race.  Drunk  on  wine,  I  had  an  urge  to  pol-  lute  her,  and  I  glazed  her  breasts  with  an  englobe  of  hon-  ey,  peanut  butter,  and  Califor-  nia  Chablis.  In  the  mirror  I  see  little  visi-  ble  change-just  a  grudging  sort  of  darkening  in  the  isth-  muses  of  normal  skin  between  the  continental  daubs  of  silver  and  scarlet.  The  cure  is  quack-  ery.  I  am  a  slave  of  quackery  and  crockery.  And  lechery.  I  long  to  see  again  the  lovely  fe-  male  leper,  whose  ankles,  as  I  remember  my  glimpse  beneath  the  curtain,  bore  a  feathery  hint  of  scaliness.  Papagena.  We  are  all  dreadful,  but  how  worse  to  be  a  woman,  when  men  have  so  little  capacity  for  inner  sur-  mounting.  Yet  how  correspond-  ingly  grateful  and  ardent  to  be  touched.  Yet  she  is  never  there.  If  there  is  any  pattern  in  their  appointments,  it  is  that  no  leper  sees  another  more  than  once.  In  the  corridors,  though,  we     see  cripples  and  comatose  post-operatics  being  wheeled  from  the  elevator,  the  dwarfed  and  the  maimed,  the  drugged  and  the  baffled,  the  sick  and  the  rela-  tives  of  the  sick,  bearing  flowers  and  complaints.  The  visitors  bring  into  the  halls  chill  whiffs  ofthe  city,  and  a  snuffly  air  of  having  been  wronged;  they  merge  indistinguishably  with  the  sick,  and  altogether  these  crowds,  lift-  ed  by  the  random  hand  of  misfortune  from  the  streets,  make  in  these  over-  burdened  halls  a  metropolis  of  their  own.  A  strange,  medieval  effect  of  thronging.  Of  Judgment  Day  and  of  humanity  posing  for  the  panoramic  camera  disaster  carries.  Monstrous  moving  clumps  of  faces,  granular,  asymmetrical,  earthen.  Dec.  12.  Small  bowls  on  the  little  wheel  all  week,  and  some  commissioned  eggshell  cups  and  saucers.  The  handles   no  thicker  than  a  grape  tendril.  Stack-  ing  the  kiln  a  tricky,  teetery  business.  The  bisque  firing  onTuesday,  and  then  the  glaze:feldspar  and  kaolin  for  body,  frits  and  colemanite  for  flux,  sev-  en-per-cent  zircopax  for  semi-opaci-  ty,  a  touch  of  nickel  oxide  for  the  aloof,  timeless  gray  I  visualize.  Kiln  up  to  2250\xc2\xb0;  Cone  No.  6  doffed  its  tip  in  the  peephole,  Cone  5  melted  on  its  side,  Cone  7  upright,  an  impervious  soldier  at  attention  in  Hell.  Turned  kiln  off  at  midnight.  Eyes  smarting,  dots  dancing.  Nicest  time  to  sleep,  while  kiln  cools,  the  stoneware  tucked  safe  into  its  fixed  extremity  of  hard-  ness.  In  the  morning,  the  gray  a  touch  more  urgent,  less  aloof  than  I  had  hoped.  Two  rims  crystallized.  Smashed  these,  then  five  more  of  the  twenty,  favoring  the  palest.  Held  the  eighth  in  my  hand,  remembering  my  impulse  to  give  a  teacup  to  Dr.  Aus.  He  has  kept  his  promise.  The  mirror  notices  a  differ-  ence,  so  does  Carlotta.  I  find  something  crass  lately  in  her  needs,  her  bestowals,  her  ob-  servations.  She  says  my  tan  is  exciting,  on  my  bottom  as  well,  like  a  man  in  ablue  movie.  We  used  to  go  to  blue  movies,  the  darkest  theatres,  to  hide  me;  I  would  marvel  at  all  the  skin.  A  strange  recur-  ring  fantasy:  when  we  spend  the  night  together  her  skin  and  mine  will  melt  together,  like  the  glazes  of  two  pots  set  too  close  together  in  the  kiln.  Drc.  13.  St.  Lucy's  Day.  The  saint  of  dim-sightedness,  of  the  winter  dark,  Carlotta  tells  me.  My  stomach  feels  queasy-perhaps  the  pills  that  compel  my  skin  to  interact  with  the  light.  Couldn't  get  going  all  day.  My  brain  feels  soft.  Dre.  16.  Aus  whistles  when  I  take  off  my  clothes.  &quot;Quite  an  improvement.&quot;  Yet  he  scarce,  ly  examines  me,  smiles  dismis-  sively  when  I  try  to  show  him  the  recalcitrant  spots,  the  uneven  topography  of  the  heal-  ing.  &quot;You've  forgotten  the  shape  you  were  in,  my  friend.&quot;  It  is  true.  My  life  up  to  now  has  been  unreal,  a  nightmare.  He  offers  to  show  me  the  &quot;snaps&quot;  he  took.I  say  no.  He  takes  new  photographs.  I  elaborate  my  sensation  that  the  leprosy,  chased  from  my  " b"skin,  is  fleeing  to  deeper  tissue,  and  will  wait  there  to  be  reborn,  in  more  loath,  some  and  devilish  form.  He  scorns  this  notion.  &quot;All  you  lepers  get  greedy.&quot;  A  clinical  stage,  evidently,  like  anger  in  the  dying.  I  am  good  enough,  his  man-  ner  states.  He  accepts  the  teacup  indif-  ferently,  with  a  grazing  glance.  &quot;My  wife'll  adore  it.&quot;  My  stomach  turns.  I  should  have  saved  out  two.  It  never  occurred  to  me  he  was  married.  Did  he  choose  her,  I  wonder,  for  her  pelt?  One  of  the  wonders  of  our  world:  the  love  life  of  gynecologists,  etc.  Drc.  17,  When  I  ask  Himmelfahrer  how  our  Beacon  Hill  patroness  liked  the  cups,  he  replies  she  was  rapturous.  But  his  manner  of  relating  this  is  not  rapturous.  He  seems  dull,  I  feel  dull.  Instead  of  working  the  afternoon  through,  I  leave  a  few  pieces  to  air-  dry  and  walk  in  the  city,  parading  my  passable  face,  my  fair  hands.  I  tend  to  underdress  thesedays.  I  have  caught  cold.  I  never  catch  colds.  Drc.  21.  The  nadir  of  the  year.  The  faces  in  Copley  Square  are  winter-  thinned  and  opaque.  I  miss  the  throng- ing,  gaudy  effect  of  the  hospital  halls.  Here,  on  the  pavements,  the  faces  drift  like  newspapers  of  two  days  ago,  printed  in  a  language  we  will  never  take  the  trouble  to  learn.  Their  death  masks  settle  upon  their  features,  the  curve  toward  disintegration  implicit  in  the  present  fit.  I  used  to  love  people;  they  seemed  lordly,  in  permitting  me  to  walk  among  them,  a  spy  from  the  scabrous  surface  of  another  planet.  Now  I  am  aware  of  loving  only  the  Hancock  Tower,  which  has  had  its  missing  pane  restored  and  is  again  per-  fect,  unoccupied,  changeably  blue,  tak-  ing  upon  itself  the  insubstantial  shapes  of  clouds,  their  porcelain  gauze,  their  adamant  dreaming.  I  reflect  that  all  art,  all  beauty,  is  reflection.  The  faces on  Boylston  Street  appear  to  me  sod-  den,  spongy,  drenched  with  time,  self-  absorbed.  The  waitress  at  Ken's,  whom  I  once  thought  exquisite,  seems  sullen  and  doughy.  Her  chest  is  pale  blubber.  The  matzo-ball  soup  is  so  tepid  I  push  it  away,  into  the  arm  of  the  man  next  to  me  at  the  counter.  I  wait  for  him  to  apologize,  and  he  does.  Afterward,  picking  the  pastrami  from  between  my  teeth,  I  cross  Copley  Square  and  look  at  myself  in  the  Hancock  panes.  There  I  am,  distortedso  that  parts  of  me  seem  a  yard  broad  and  others  narrow  as  the  waist  of  an  hourglass.  I  look  up  and  the  foreshortened  height  of  the  struc-  ture,  along  its  acute  angle,  looms  like  the  lifted  prow  of  a  ship.  I  wait  for  it  to  topple,  and  it  doesn't.  Carlotta  tells  me  I  am  less  passion-  ate.  It  is  morning.  She  has  just  left,  leaving  behind  her  a  musky  afterscent  of  dissatisfaction.  Dro.  25.  I  am  beautiful.  I  keep  un-  wrapping  myself  to  be  sure.  Even  on  my  shins  leprosy  has  vanished,  leaving  a  fine  crackle  of  dry  skin,  a  la  T'ang  ware,  that  bath  oil  will  ease.  On  my  thighs,  a  faint  pink  shadow  such  as  a  " b"whiff  of  copper  oxide  pro-  duces  in  a  reduction  atmos-  phere.  The  skin  looks  baby-  ish,  startled,  disarmed:  the  well-known  blankness  of  health.I  feel  between  my  self  and  my  epiderm  a  gap,  a  thin  space  where  a  wedge  of  spiritual  dissociation  could  be  set.  I  have  a  thin  head-  ache,  from  last  eve's  boozy  spat  with  Carlotta.  And  a  tooth  that  is  shrinking  away  from  its  porcelain  filling  seems  to  be  dying;  at  least  there  is  a  neuralgic  soft  spot  under  my  cheekbone.  Per-  haps,  too,  it  hurts  me  to  be  alone.  'The  light  box  is  closed  for  the  holiday.  Car-  lotta  is  spending  Christmas  in  religious  retreat  with  an  order  of  Episcopalian  nuns  on  Louisburg  Square.  Notes  for  a  new  line  of  stoneware:  bigger,  rough-  er,  rude,  with  granulations  and  leonine  stains  of  iron  oxide,  Drc.  29.  Caressing  Car-  lotta,  my  fingertips  discov-  ered  a  pimple  at  the  nape  of  her  neck.  Taking  her  to  the  window,  I  saw  that  the  skin  of  her  upper  chest,  stretched  taut  across  the  clavicles,  was  marred  by  a  hundred  imperfections  freckles,  inflamed  follicles,  a  mole  with  a  hair  like  a  clot  of  earth  supporting  the  stem  ofa  single  dead  flower,  the  red  indentations  left  by  the  chain  of  her  crucifix,  the  whitish  trace  of  an  old  wound  or  boil,  indescribably  fine  curdlings  and  mottlings.  My  hand  in  contrast  bore  nothing  of  the  kind;  even  the  ghostly  shadow  of  my  Aus-  tralia-shaped  lesion  had  been  smoothed  away.  We  discovered,  Carlotta  and  I,  that  while  examining  her  shoulders  I  had  lost  my  readiness  for  love;  nothing  we  did  could  will  it  back.  An  incident  unprecedented  in  our  relationship.  She  seized  the  opportunity  to  exercise  her  womanly  capacity  for  forgiveness,  but  I  was  not  gulled,  knowing  who,  at  bot-  tom,  was  to  blame.  Her  spots  danced  on  the  insides  of  my  lids.  JAN.  6.  Dr.  Aus  has  pronounced  me  &quot;clear.&quot;  He,  by  the  way,  is  going  home  for  a  month,  during  which  time  I  am  to  be  given,  like  a  new  car,  &quot;maintenance  checks.&quot;  He  takes  my  photographs  for  his  collection,  and  looks  forward  to  being  away.  Itwill  be high  summer  Down  Under.  &quot;We  live  on  the  beaches.&quot;  I  picture  him  sus-  pended  upside  down  in  a  parallelepiped  of  intense  white  sun,  and  feel  aban-  doned.  Jan.  11.  Carlotta  says  we  should  cool  it.  She  has  been  seeing  another  man,  a  lay  priest.  I  have  been  impotent  with  her  twice  since  the  initial  fiasco,  but  she  saysthat  is  not  it.  She  will  always  love  me,  it  is  just  that  a  woman  needs  to  be  needed,  if  I  can  understand,  I  pretend  that  I  do.  A  worse  blow  falls  when  Himmelfahrer  visits.  He  surveys  my  new  work,  pyramids  of  it,  some  of  it  still  warm  from  the  kiln,  which  I  have  enlarged.  He  appears  disconsolate.  He  agrees  to  take  only  half,  and  that  on  consignment.  He  says  it  is  the  slow  season.  He  touches  agargoylish  pitcher  (the  spout  a  snout,  the  handle  a  tail)  and  observes  there  has  been  a  change.  I  say  the  design  is  a  joke,  a  fancy.  He  says  he  is  speaking  not  of  intent  but  of  texture.  He  says  these  are  good  pots  but  not  fanatic,  that  in  today's  highly  competitive  world  you  got  to  be  fanatic  to  be  even  good.  He  is  a  heavy  gray  man,  who  moves  with  many  leaden  sighs.  I  feel  a  pang  of  guilt,  knowing  that  I  spend  fewer  hours  than  former-  ly  in  my  studio,  preferring  to  walk  out  into  the  city,  clad  as  lightly  as  the  cold  allows,  immersing  myself  in  mankind  and  in  the  snow,  which  has  been  fall-  ing  abundantly.  A  contagion  of  bliss  in  a  city,  in  its  air  of  digested  disaster-  the  sirens  wailing  from  the  rooftops,  the  unexplained  volume  of  smoke  down  the  block,  the  blotchy-faced  drunk  shrieking  at  phantoms  and  hawking  into  the  war-memorial  urn.  Himmelfahrer  apologizes  for  own  disappointment,  and  relents.  offers  to  take  this  new  batch  on  our  former  terms  if  I  will  revert  to  my  former  small  scale  and  muted  tone  and  exquisite  finish.  I  spurn  him,  of  course.  I  see  the  plot.  He  and  Carlotta  are  try-  ing  to  make  me  again  their  own,  their  toy  within  the  gilded  cage  of  my  disease.  No  more.  I  am  free,  as  other  men.  I  am  whole.  "