 b"CONGRATULATIONS!  You  are  now  the  owner  of  a  new  Simplex  automated  timesaving  miracle  Fletch-o-mat,  designedby  space-age  scientists  specifically  to  remove  the  drudgery  from  tiresome  daily  fletching.  To  operate,  unlock  the  safety  grommet  (G)  and  loosen  knurled  screw  (B)  by  turning  in  a  clockwise  direction,  bring-  ing  the  elbow  directly  in  line  with  the  lower  back.  Now  touch  the  bottom  of  the  heel  with  the  chin,  exactly  as  in  Mayurasana,  &quot;the  Peacock&quot;  (figure  5),  concentrating  on  the  White  Spot,  or  Source  of  All  Being.  Repeat  the  mantra  for  the  count  of  ten,  meanwhile  mixing  14  tsp.  nutmeg  with  the  melted  butter  and  the  shallots.  Now  slowly  add  the  iron  filings,  brine  shrimp,  and  a  pinch  of  matzo  meal  (for  needed  ni-  trogen)  and,  using  a  rubber  spatula,  smooth  the  mixture  upward  on  your  face,  especially  remembering  the  oily  areas  around  the  nose  and  forehead.  Once  those  dead  skin  cells  have  been  sloughed  off  and  your  pores  can  breathe  again,  the  soft  cartilage  may  be  carefully  planed  away  until  the  desired  shape  is  obtained.  The  flap  of  skin  is  then  folded  back  over  the  bridge  and  sutured  in  place  with  three  or  four  common  roofing  nails  or  a  stapling  gun.  A  dressing  of  hydroxyzine  suspension  (1  mg.  per  5  ml.)  may  be  applied  topically  to  prevent  redness,  scaling,  rot,  mites,  motes,  bloat,  crabgrass,  or  Murray  face  (a  postoperative  symp-  tom  in  which  the  patient's  visage  is  seen  to  resemble  that  of  a  man  named  Mur-  ray  ).  For  three  to  ten  days  thereafter,  cover  everything  with  a  sheet  ofclear  plastic  wrap  to  help  the  seedlings  retain  moisture  and  grow  to  full  maturity.  Later,  after  the  plants  are  dried  and  crushed,  you  can  separate  the  seeds  and  twigs  by  forcing  the  material  through  a  strainer,  which  will  avoid  a  paranoid,  or  &quot;bad,&quot;  trip.  A  much  more  pleasur-  able  trip  is  obtained  by  taking  the  auto  ferry  directly  to  Capo  di  Gallo,  near  Palermo,  and  boarding  the  charming  funicular  railway,  which  starts  at  the  base  of  the  scalp  and  works  its  way  for-  ward,  massaging  the  entire  area  and  stimulating  circulation  where  it  is  most  needed,  at  the  gumline.  A  brisk  up-  and-down  rather  than  a  to-and-fro  mo-  tion  is  what  most  dentists  recommend.  A  series  of  rapid  contractions  also  has  a  delightful  effect;  your  wife  can  develop  her  ability  in  this  area  by  practicing  just  a  few  moments  a  day,  using  a  strum-  ming  motion,  striking  the  low  E  string  down  (com-),  followed  by  a  glissando  up  (pah!),  tightening  the  embouchure  for  crescendo  and  relaxing  the  lips  for  diminuendo.  In  no  time  you'll  be  play-  ing  such  old  favorites  as  &quot;Bile  Dat  Cabbage  Down&quot;  and  John  Blows  &quot;Elegy  on  Queen  Mary.&quot;  If,  after  six  lessons,  you  remain  a  social  pariah,  re-  member  that  a  simple  implosion  device  may  be  fashioned  using  a  discarded  length  of  two-inch  pipe  and  materials  available  from  any  scientific  supply  house.  The  energy  released  by  such  a  reaction  is  equal  to  the  explosive  force  of  30,000  tons  of  TNT,  or  seven  forty-year-old  men  riding  a  bicycle  up  a  flight  of  stairs,  or  a  child  skipping  rope  for  a  hundred  years  (which  burns  up  750  calories  but  does  nothing  for  that  flab  around  your  middle).  The  easiest  exercise  is  one  you  can  do  while  sleep-  ing  at  your  desk:  (1)  Tense  the  dia-  phragm  muscles.  (2)  Grasp  the  Flex-o-  toner  in  the  middle.  (3)  Snap  the  lever  around  quickly.  Now  measure  your  arm.  You'll  be  astounded  at  the  results  you  will  get  in  only  three  seconds.  If  you  want  even  better  results,  H.  P.  Whitebait,  leaders  in  the  in-  vestment  field  for  years,  rec-  ommend  tax-free  municipals  or  C.D.s,  which  yield  a  smaller  return  butfollow  a  pattern  you  can  sew  your-  self  with  just  scissors,  a  pot  of  glue,  and  an  astrolabe.  Simply  compute  the  volume  of  the  room,  which  is  the  width  times  the  length  times  the  height  divided  by  a  sim-  ple  Chinese  screen  or  potted  plant,  which  maintains  the  traffic  flow  without  distort-  ing  the  ambience.  An  un-  derstated  Parsons  table  or  lovely  hand-rubbed  Shaker  gibbet  completes  the  d\xc3\xa9cor,  and  will  cost  less  than  ten  per  cent  of  what  you  would  pay  a  professional  decorae-  tor!  Everyone  agrees:  Mis-  ter  Cork-Board  (reg.  [REDACTED]  Pat.  Off.)  takes  you  step  by  step  and  eliminates  the  anxiety-producing  guess-  work  associated  with  lino-  leum  installation  or  any  other  creative  undertaking.  What's  more,  the  accom-  panying  diagrams  (reprint,  ed  from  Creative  Under-  taking)  reveal  the  ancient  " b"secrets  of  the  Egyptian  embalmers  and  show you  how  to  turn  a  nice  dollar  by  winding  ca-  davers  in  strips  of  old  percale.  It's  so  easy.  (1)  Open  the  packet  of  powdered  grout  and  empty  into  a  coffee  can  or  60  mm.  shell  casing.  (2)  Add  just  enough  water  to  make  a  thick  paste.  (3)  Apply  to  the  armature,  shaping  care-  fully  until  the  amor-  phous  mass  resembles  a  horse  or  other  object  of  your  fancy  (sugges-  tions:  wolf,  nude  boy,  bunch  of  pears).  (4)  When  dry,  place  the  completed  work  under  a  good  strong  light,  pausing  briefly  to  ex-  amine  your  chin  in  a  magnifying  mirror.  See  those  thousands  of  giant  gnarled  tree  trunks  sticking  up  out  of  the  blighted  terrain?  That's  your  beard!  That's  why  we  coat  each  and  every  razor  blade  with  a  thin  film  of  Silislide,  the  in-  credible  new  friction  retardant  that  adds  lit-erally  years  to  the  life  of  your  dog,  because  it  contains  not  only  a  nat-  ural,  organic  moisturiz-  er  but  a  set  of  hex  wrenches,  a  soldering  gun,  six  terminal  lugs,  and  a  melding  tool.  Even  a  woman  or  child  can  follow  our  sim-  ple  schematic  drawing  and  learn  how  to  make  BIG  MONEY  in  your  own  home  by  going  down  to  the  basement  after  din-  ner  and  practicing  the  kind  of  person-  alized,  demanding  craft  that  made  this  country  what  it  is.  Using  a  jewel-  ler's  loupe  and  a  No.  4  Superfine  needle,  start  by  engraving  the  face  (Andrew  Jackson  if  it's  a  twenty),  remember-  ing  that  most  beginners  slip  up  by  omit-  ting  the  little  chimney  on  the  left  side  of  the  White  House.  Work  care-  fully.  Write  clearly.  Do  not  look  at  your  neighbor's  paper.  When  you  are  finished,  remain  sitting  quietly.  Speak  to  no  one.  Anything  you  say  may  be  taken  down  and  held  against  you.  You  are  entitled  to  one  telephone  call.  If  you  have  never  been  impanelled  (and  under  no  circumstances  remove  panel;  there  are  no  user-serviceable  parts  inside),  please  familiarize  your-  self  with  this  simple  time-honored  trial  procedure:  (1)  Place  suspect  in  duck-  ing  stool  (figure  A),  making  certain  straps  (b)  and  (c)  are  secured.  (2)  Lower  witch  into  pond  (figure  B)  for  period  of  not  less  than  five  minutes'  duration.  (3)  Watch  carefully:  those  bubbles  on  the  surface  of  the  water  mean  that  all  the  goodness  is  being  ex-  tracted,  while  the  bitter  oils  and  acids  are  left  trapped  inside  the  hair  follicle,  leaving  the  fingernails  soft  and  shiny!  Now  buff  to  a  high  lustre.  There's  nothing  more  to  do;  nothing  to  learn,  assemble,  or  understand.  Simply  roll  the  doubling  cube,  adding  the  number  of  points  to  your  Master  Score-unless   you  have  previously  acquired  a  Hazard  card,  in  which  case  you  must  advance  to  the  penalty  booth.  Once  inside:  (1)  Draw  the  curtain  closed.  (2)  Examine  the  sample  ballot.  (3)  Pull  down  all  levers  marked  &quot;Ausgezeichnet.&quot;  Re-  main  calm.  Do  not  panic.  Place  your  head  between  your  knees.  Pull  the  two  yellow  tabs  down  smartly  to  inflate  the  vest.  Step  out  of  the  booth.  Once  in  the  water,  obey  the  stewardess.  If  a  shark  appears,  remain  perfectly  still.  Have  your  main  points  in  mind.  Speak  clearly  and  in  a  loud  voice.  Use  simple  words.  The  repellent  will  last  approximately  one  hour.  After  that,  anything  left  over  may  be  frozen  for  reuse  in  small  plastic  containers.  "