 b"I  AM  a  woodcutter.  My  name  does  not  matter.  The  hut  where  I  was  born  and  where  I  shall  probably  soon  die  stands  at  the  edge  of  the  forest.  It  is  said  of  the  forest  that  it  stretches  as  far  as  the  sea,  which  rings  the  whole  earth  and  on  which  wooden  huts  like  mine  wend  their  way.  Never  having  seen  this  sea,  I  don't  know.  Nor  have  I  ever  seen  the  other  side  of  the  forest.  When  we  were  boys  my  elder  brother  made  me  vow  that  be-  tween  us  we  would  chop  down  the  entire  woods  until  not  a  single  tree  was  left.  My  brother  died,  and  what  I  seek  now  -and  what  I  shall  go  on  seeking  -is  something  else.  'To  the  west  runs  a  stream  that  I  know  how  to  fish  with  my  hands.  In  the  forest  there  are  wolves,  but  wolves  do  not  scare  me,  and  my  axe  has  never  been  untrue  to  me.  Of  my  years  I  have  never  kept  count.  I  know  they  are  many.  My  eyes  no  longer  see.  In  the  village,  where  I  venture  no  more,  sinceI  would  lose  my  way,  I  am  known  as  a  miser.  But  how  much  treasure  can  a  mere  woodcutter  have  laid  up?  To  keep  snow  out,  I  shut  tight  the  DISK  door  of  my  house  with  a  stone.  One  evening  long  ago,  I  heard  labored  foot-  steps  approach,  and  then  a  knock.  I  opened,  and  a  stranger  came  in.  He  was  old  and  tall,  and  he  was  wrapped  in  a  threadbare  blanket.  A  scar  marked  his  face.  His  years  seemed  to  have  giv-  en  him  more  authority  than  frailty,  but  I  noticed  that  he  was  unable  to  get  about  without  the  aid  of  a  staff.  We  exchanged  a  few  words  thatI  no  longer  remember.  At  the  end,  he  said,  &quot;I  am  homeless  and  sleep  wherever  I  can.  I  have  travelled  the  length  and  breadth  of  this  land  of  the  Saxons.&quot;  These  words  testified  to  his  years.  My  father  had  always  spoken  of  the  Saxon  land,  which  nowadays  people  call  England.  I  had  bread  and  fish.  We  did  not  speak  a  word  during  the  meal.  Rain  began  to  fall.  With  a  few  skinsI  made  him  a  pallet  on  the  earth  floor,  where  my  brother  had  died.  When  night  fell,  we  went  to  sleep.  Day  was  dawning  when  we  left  the  hut.  The  rain  had  stopped  and  the  ground  was  covered  with  new-fallen  snow.  My  companion's  staff  slipped  from  his  hand  and  he  ordered  me  to  pick  it  up.  &quot;Why  must  I  obey  you?&quot;  I  asked  him.  &quot;Because  I  am  a  king,&quot;  he  an-  swered.  I  thought  him  mad.  Picking  up  the  staff,  I  handed  it  to  him.  He  spoke  with  a  different  voice.  &quot;I  am  king  of  the  Secgens,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Often  in  hard-pitched  battle  I  carried  my  people  to  victory,  but  at  the  fate-  ful  hour  I  lost  my  kingdom.  My  name  is  Isern  and  I  am  of  the  raceof  Odin.&quot;  &quot;Ido  not  worship  Odin,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  worship  Christ.&quot;  He  went  on  as  if  he  had  not  heard  me.  &quot;I  travel  the  paths  of  exile,  but  I  am  still  king,  for  I  have  the  disk.  Do  you  want  to  see  it?&quot;  He  opened  the  palm  of  his  bony  hand.  There  was  nothing  in  it.  Only  then  did  I  recall  that  he  had  always  kept  the  hand  closed.  Staring  hard  at  me,  he  said,  &quot;You  may  touch  it.&quot;  With  a  certain  misgiving,  I  touched  my  fingertips  to  his  palm.  I  felt  some-  thing  cold,  and  saw  a  glitter,  The  hand  closedabruptly.  I  said  nothing.  Theman  went  on  patiently,  as  if  speaking  to  a  child.  &quot;It  is  Odin's  disk,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It  has  only  one  side.  In  all  the  world  there  is  nothing  else  with  only  one  side.  As  long  as  the  disk  remains  mine,  I  shall  be  king.&quot;  &quot;Is  it  golden?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  don't  know,  It  is  Odin's  disk  and  it  has  only  one  side.&quot;  Then  and  there  I  was  overcome  with  greed  to  own  the  disk.  If  it  were  mine,  I  could  trade  it  for  an  ingot  of  gold  and  I  would  be  a  king.  I  said  to  the  vagabond,  whom  to  this  day  I  go  on  hating,  &quot;In  my  hut  I  have  buried  a  box  of  coins.  They  are  of  gold  and  they  shine  like  an  axe.  If  you  give  me  Odin's  disk,  I'll  trade  you  the  box.&quot;  He  said  stubbornly,  &quot;I  don't  want  to.&quot;  &quot;Then,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;you  may  continue  on  your  path.&quot;  He  turned  his  back  to  me.  One  blow  with  the  axe  at  the  back  of  his  neck  was  more  than  enough  to  bring  him  down,  but  as  he  fell  his  hand  opened,  and  in  the  air  I  saw  the  glitter.  I  took  care  to  mark  the  spot  with  my  axe,  and  dragged  the  dead  man  to  the  stream,  which  was  running  high.  There  I  threw  him  in.  Coming  back  to  my  hut,  I  searched  for  the  disk.  I  did  not  find  it.  That  was  years  ago,  and  I  am  searching  still.  "