 b"IN  the  forty  years  that  Rabbi  Naph-  tali  Sencyminer  had  waged  war  against  the  evil  spirits,  he  con-  tended  with  imps,  demons,  dybbuks,  and  harpies,  and  sooner  or  later  he  vanquished  them  all-with  incanta-  tions,  with  amulets,  with  the  power  of  his  voice,  his  cane,  the  stomping  of  his  feet,  and  his  curses.  A  single  passion  still  consumed  him-to  capture  one  of  these  impure  spirits,  to  bind  it  and  lock  it  up  in  a  cage  like  a  wild  beast.  The  rabbi  had  acage  suitedto  the  purpose  in  his  attic.  One  of  his  Chassidim,  an  iron  merchant,  had  had  it  constructed  for  him  in  secret.It  was  made  of  heavy  bars  surrounded  by  thick  wire  mesh  and  had  a  door  with  two  locks.  On  the  mesh  the  rabbi  had  hung  incantations  written  in  a  scribal  hand  on  parchment,  as  well  as  a  ram's  horn  and  a  prayer  shawl  that  had  once  belonged  to  the  Kozienice  Preacher.  On  its  floor  lay  the  chainsthe  famous  saint  Joseph  della  Reyna  had  used  to  shackle  Satan.  Rabbi  Joseph  hadn't  managed  to  keep  Satan  prisoner,  for  he  took  pity  on  him  and  gave  him  a  pinch  of  snuff.  Two  fires  shot  from  Satan's  nostrils  and  the  chains  fell  from  him.  Rabbi  Naphtali  was  determined  to  show  the  Devil  no  mercy.  He  planned  to  keep  him  in  the  dark  without  food  orwater,  sur-  rounded  by  the  holy  names  of  God  and  angels.  Rabbis  and  even  righteous  Gen-  tiles  from  all  over  the  world  would  come  to  Sencymin  to  witness  Rabbi  Naphtali's  triumph.  Well,  but  no  matter  how  many  traps  Rabbi  Naphtali  set  for  Satan  and  his  hosts  they  managed  to  elude  him.  One  time  he  seized  a  wraith  by  the  beard  and  a  Lilith  by  its  hair,  but  before  he  could  imprison  them  they  wriggled  away.  These  fiends  came  back  in  the  night  to  taunt  the  rabbi,  to  whistle  in  his  ear  and  spit  upon  him.  A  sprite  with  the  face  of  a  billy  goat  deposited  a  pile  of  dung  upon  the  rabbi's  sacred  book.  It  left  behind  the  stench  of  gal-  banum.  By  the  time  the  rabbi  passed  his  sev-  enties,  he  began  to  despair.  His  wife  had  died.  The  cage  in  the  attic  was  covered  with  spiderwebs  and  the  chains  had  rusted.  But  one  summer  night  late  in  the  month  of  Ab  something  occurred  that  impressed  the  rabbi  as  a  miracle.  It  happened  this  way.  The  rabbi's  beadle,  Reb  Gronam  Getz,  a  patriarch  who  had  served  Rabbi  Naphtali's  father,  fell  sick  for  the  first  time  in  his  eighty,  seven  years  and  was  taken  to  the  hos-  pital.  From  the  day  the  rabbi  became  a  widower,  Gronam  Getz  had  stayed  in  the  rabbi's  bedroom  to  guard  him  from  the  spirits  and  their  revenge.  Now  the  rabbi  slept  alone;  he  had  no  faith  in  the  young  beadles.  That  night  before  he  went  to  bed,  the  rabbi  not  only  read  the  prayers  of  the  holy  Isaac  Luria,  as  usual,  but  he  recited  those  psalms  specifically  intended  to  drive  away  nocturnal  trespassers.  He  had  placed  a  Book  of  Creation  un-  der  his  pillow,  and  a  long-bladed  knife  such  as  pregnant  women  kept  under  their  pillows  to  ward  off  Shibta,  the  arch-enemy  of  the  newly  born.  He  also  left  a  wax  candle  burning  in  a  holder.  The  rabbi  slept  in  a  white  cloak  belted  with  a  sash;  white  stockings;  and  two  skullcaps-one  at  his  forehead,  one  at  the  back  of  his  skull-as  well  as  a  ritual  garment  with  special  eight-  fold  twisted  fringes.  The  moment  he  laid  his  head  on  the  pillow  and  re-  cited  &quot;Thou  who  makest  the  bands  of  sleep  fall  upon  mine  eyes  and  slumber  upon  mine  eyelids,&quot;  he  fell  into  a  deep  sleep.  He  awoke  in  alarm  in  the  middle  of  the  night.  The  candle  had  gone  out.  He  heard  quiet  footsteps  nearby.  He  felt  an  urge  to  cry,  &quot;Shaddai,  destroy  Satan!,&quot;  but  it  struck  him  that  perhaps  his  prayers  had  been  an-  swered  in  Heaven-this  might  be  his  opportunity  to  capture  the  evil  intruder.  A  strength  that  astounded  him  surged  through  Rabbi  Naphtali.  He  leaped  out  of  bed  with  such  force  that  the  slats  beneath  his  straw  pallet  broke.  A  dark  presence  stood  outlined  against  the  shuttered  window.  He  lunged  to-  ward  it  with  the  ferocity  of  a  lion.  In  a  flash  he  had  seized  it  and  pressed  it  to  him  so  violently  that  he  felt  ribs  snap.  Only  now  did  the  spirit  begin  to  resist.  It  shouted  something  unintelli-  gible,  but  the  rabbi  threw  it  to  the  floor,  clasped  it  between  his  knees,  clamped  its  mouth  shut  with  one  hand  and  clutched  its  throat  with  the  other.  He  could  feel  a  jerking,  hear  muffled  words,  a  gurgling.  Then  it  ceased  to  struggle  and  was  silent.  The  rabbi  had  vanquished  the  demon.  As  he  bound  its  feet  with  his  sash,  Rabbi  Naphtali  trembled,  slavered,  and  stam-  mered  incantations:  &quot;Kuzu  Bemuchzus  Kuzu  ...  An  arrow  in  the  eye  of  Sa-  tan  .  ..  Yahweh's  war  with  Amalek  .  .  .  Thou  shalt  utterly  detest  it,  and  thou  shalt  utterly  abhor  it.&quot;  Although  the  entity  of  the  nether-  world  lay  quiet,  Rabbi  Naphtali  knew  its  submission  was  a  sham.  Until  it  was  shackled  and  confined  in  the  cage,  it  could  re-  gain  its  powers,  stick  its  tongue  out  as  far  as  its  navel,  burst  into  mad  laughter,  and  fly  away  like  a  bat.  The  rabbi  tried  to  stand,  but  his  legs  felt  as  if  they  had  been  chopped  off.  Sparks  flashed  before  his  eyes.  His  ears  rang.  &quot;I  dare  not  give  in!&quot;  he  warned  himself.  &quot;As-  modeus  and  his  compan-  ions  are  merely  waiting  for  me  to  show  weak-  ness.&quot;  The  rabbi  would  have  to  drag  the  messenger  of  " b"destruction  up  to  the  attic  stealthily,  sothat  no  one  in  the  house  would  learn  whatwas  going  on.  Had  Gronam  Getz  been  withhim,  he  would  have  lent  a  hand-Gronam  Getz  was  familiar  with  the  Cabala  and  knew  all  the  spells  and  incanta-  tions.  But  the  young  beadles  slept  in  their  own  homes,  and  even  if  they  had  been  stand-  ing  guard  in  the  court-  yard  the  rabbi  would  not  have  trusted  them  to  help  him  with  a  mis-  sion  of  such  gravity.  After  a  while,  Rabbi  Naphtali  revived  some-  what  and  was  able  to  rise.  He  leaned  down  and  picked  up  the  crea-  tureof  the  darkness,  slung  it  over  one  shoul-  der,  and  began  to  move  toward  the  anteroom  and  the  stairs  leading  to  the  attic.  He  knew  full  well  that  he  was  over-  taxing  his  strength,  but  there  were  times  when  one  could  not  yield  to  the  body.  He  crept  along  the  corridor,  praying  that  he  would  not  collapse  under  his  load,  God  forbid,  lest  its  allies  find  out  and  swarm  all  overhim.  Several  times  he  bumped  against  doors  and  walls.  His  cloak  caught  on  a  hook.  When  he  reached  the  narrow  attic  stairs,  he  was  drenched  in  sweat  and  could  hear  the  snort-  ing  of  his  own  nose.  But  herefused  to  take  a  rest.  At  any  moment  his  ad-  versary  might  come  to  and  drag  him  away  to  beyond  the  dark  re-  gions,  to  the  gates  of  Hell,  to  the  ruins  of  Sodom,  to  Mount  Seir,  where  Naamah,  Mahalath,  and  Lilith  reigned.  The  rabbi  could  no  longer  remem-  ber  any  psalms  or  conjurations-his  brain  was  dulled  and  his  tongue  thick  as  wood.  By  the  time  he  had  climbed  to  the  attic,  day  was  dawning.  The  blaze  of  the  rising  sun  shone  through  the  cracks  in  the  eastern  side  of  the  shingled  roof.  The  cage  could  be  seen  through  purplish  columns  of  dust.  The  rabbi  stepped  toward  it,  buthe  banged  against  a  wooden  box  full  of  old  books  and  fell  back.  In  the  second  before  he  fainted,  he  caught  a  glimpse  of  the  burden  under  which  he  had  fallen-a  boy  in  a  short  jacket,  his  mouth  and  nose  bloodied.  Woe  is  me,  it's  a  hu- man,  I've  killed  him!  the  rabbi  thought  as  everything  went  dark.  HEN  Rabbi  Naphtali  opened  his  eyes  again,  the  sun  still  shone  through  the  cracks  in  the  roof,  but  now  the  light  came  not  from  the  east  but  from  the  west.  It  took  him  a  long  time  to  grasp  this.  His  bones  ached,  and  his  head  hurt  with  a  piercing  pain.  Next  to  him  lay  a  corpse  with  eyes  glazed,  bloody  mouth  open,  face  yellow  as  clay.  Only  now  did  he  realize  what  had  happened-a  youngster  had  come  to  rob  him.  Rabbi  Naphtali  didn't  ac-  cept  paper  money  for  his  services-  only  silver  coins  orgold  ducats,  which  he  kept  in  earthen  jugs  as  well  as  in  oak  coffers  lined  in  hide  and  bound  with  iron  hoops.  For  years  he  had  been  making  plans  to  go  to  the  Holy  Land  to  builda  study  house  there,  a  ritual  bath  and  a  yeshiva,  and  to  erect  a  tabernacle  over  the  grave  of  his  grandfather  Reb  Menahem  Kintzker,  who  had  died  in  [REDACTED]  forty  years  before.  &quot;God  Almighty,  why  did  this  happen  to  me?&quot;  the  rabbi  mumbled.  &quot;My  punishment  is  greater  than  I  can  Beaty  He  stuck  out  his  hand  and  felt  the  body's  forehead.  The  brightness  of  the  sunset  through  the  shingles  soon     dimmed  and  the  attic  filled  with  shad-  ows.  A  great  fear  came  over  the  rab-  bi.  He  rose  with  effort  and  began  to  shuffle  toward  the  door.  If  at  least  he  might  have  died  along  with  his  victim!  But  it  had  been  decreed  in  Heaven  that  he  suffer  Cain's  fate.  At  the  head  ofthe  stairs  he  was  forced  to  sit  down.  He  had  to  consider  his  situa-  tion.  His  followers  had  undoubtedly  been  looking  for  him  all  day,  but  it  would  never  have  occurred  to  them  that  he  might  be  up  in  the  attic.  There  was  no  sound  of  movement  in  the  house.  They  must  have  given  up  hope  for  him,  or  perhaps  they  assumed  he  had  ascended  to  Heaven  alive,  like  Enoch,.  Rabbi  Naphtali  had  suf-  fered  many  misfortunes-he  had  been  left  in  his  old  age  without  wife  or  child-but  during  all  his  calamities  he  had  been  able  to  pray  and  to  justi-  fy  the  harsh  judgments  passed  upon  him.  This  day,  the  first  since  he  be-  came  thirteen,  he  had  missed  putting  on  his  phylacteries.  It  was  the  hour  to  say  the  evening  prayers,  but  he  could  not  bringhimself  to  allow  sacred  words  to  pass  through  the  lips  of  a  murderer.  Of  all  possible  disasters,  he  had  suffered  the  worst-and  at  what  a  time  in  his  life:  on  the  brink  of  the  grave!  Ordinarily,  the  spirits  of  good  and  " b"evil  fought  a  constant  battle  within  Rabbi  Naphtali,  but  now  both  remained  silent.  Night  fell  and  the  rabbi  sat  en-  veloped  in  a  gloom  like  that  of  the  abyss.  &quot;Whither  shall  I  go  from  thy  Spirit?  Or  whither  shall  I  flee  from  thy  presence?&quot;  he  recited.  Should  he  do  away  with  himself,  he  thought.  Since  he  had  already  lost  the  world  to  come,  what  difference  would  it  make?  Should  he  go  off  somewhere  and  vanish?  Well,  but  if  the  thief  is  a  Jew  he  must  be  given  a  Jewish  burial.  A  corpse  cannot  be  left  to  rot  in  an  attic  without  ablution,  without  shrouds,  without  a  mourner's  prayer  said  over  it.  ..  The  rabbi's  head  sank  ever  lower  and  lower.  Compared  to  his  ordeal,  Job's  had  been  a  trifle.  Rabbi  Naphtali  had  but  one  request  of  the  Almighty-  to  die.  He  now  understood  the  words  of  the  Midrash:  &quot;  'Very  good'-that  is  death.&quot;  The  rabbi  had  fallen  asleep  and  was  awakened  by  voices,  noises,  the  sound  of  feet.  The  beadles  were  running  up   the  stairs  to  him,  The  light  of  a  lantern  dazzled  his  eyes.  They  lifted  him  in  their  arms  and  carried  him  away.  He  heard  women  weeping,  men  shouting.  Am  I  dead,  the  rabbi  wondered.  Is  this  my  funeral?  They  carried  him  to  a  room  and  put  him  to  bed.  They  revived  him  with  cold  water  and  rubbed  his  temples  with  vinegar.  Everyone  talked  at  once,  but  he  made  no  response.  Sud-  denly  a  new  lament  rose  and  at  that  in-  stant  therabbi  understood  what  had  happened.  They  had  found  the  body  in  the  attic.  Someone  called  out  a  name:  Haiml  Cake.  How  could  this  be,  the  rabbi  asked  himself.  Haiml  Cake  is  no  longer  a  youngster.  Soon  after,  they  called  an-  other  name:  Bentze  Beetle.  For  all  his  distress  the  rabbi  realized  the  con-  nection  between  these  names.  Haim]  Cake,  a  horse  thief  whom  the  peasants  had  beaten  so  badly  that  he  could  no  longer  steal  horses,  had  become  a  teach-  erof  young  thieves.  He  must  have  sent  out  one  of  the  gang,  Bentze  Beetle,  to  rob  him.  Instead  of  capturing  Satan,  he,  Naphtali  Sencyminer,  had  mur-  dered  a  young  burglar-perhaps  an  or-  phan  besides.  In  the  midst  of  the  tur-  moil  the  rabbi  murmured,  &quot;Satan  has  captured  me.&quot;  'They  were  the  last  words  his  fol-  lowers  heard  from  the  rabbi.  In  the  three  weeks  that  he  lingered,  he  did  not  speak  to  those  who  came  to  visit  him.  The  beadles  dressed  him  in  his  prayer  shawl  and  phylacteries,  and  he  mum-  bled.  They  handed  him  a  book,  and  he  glanced  into  it,  but  no  one  saw  him  turn  a  page.  Two  days  before  the  rabbi's  demise,  Gronam  Getz  came  from  the  hospital  and  he  alone  stayed  with  the  rabbi  until  the  end.  The  rabbi  ordered  him  to  burn  his  manuscripts,  not  to  save  so  much  as  a  single  page,  and  Gronam  Getz  did  as  he  was  told.  The  rabbi  also  dictated  awill  to  him,  leaving  his  entire  fortune  to  the  com-  munity,  with  enough  put  aside  to  erect  a  tombstone  over  Bentze  Beetle's  grave,  tohire  someone  to  say  the  Kad-  dish  over  him,  and  to  subsidize  men  to  study  the  Mishnah  in  Bentze's  name.  The  rabbi  decreed  that  he  himself  be  buried  behind  the  fence,  where  heretics  and  suicides  were  laidto  rest.  He  warned  of  severe  punishment  for  any  who  defied  his  last  wishes.  Rabbi  Naphtali  Sencyminer  had  killed  a  hu-  man  being  and  he  had  forfeited  the  right  to  lie  alongside  decent  Jews.  However,  the  Chassidim  and  members  of  the  Burial  Society  dared  to  disre-  gard  his  demands.  Many  rabbis  gath-  ered  forthe  funeral,  and  they  or-  dained  that  since  Rabbi  Naphtali  had  done  what  he  did  unintentionally  and  had  atoned  for  it  with  a  self-mortifica-  tion  that  brought  about  his  decease,  he  should  be  given  a  burial  with  all  the  honors  accruing  to  a  saint  and  a  mar-  tyr.  The  eldest  among  them,  an  au-  thor  of  many  holy  books  and  a  patri-  arch  of  eighty,  said,  &quot;Those  who  love  God  more  than  the  soul  and  heart  can  bear  attempt  to  destroy  the  world.  So  long  as  there  is  a  world  there  will  also  be  a  Satan.&quot; "