 b"YOU  make  these  pronounce-  ments  about  me,  and  the  truth  is  you  don't  know  me  at  [REDACTED];  Joe  Fletcher  saidto  me  last  week,  after  three  years  of  whatever  this  is-IDd  have  called  it  knowing  each  other.  &quot;'There  isn't  such  a  lot  to  know  about  anyone,&quot;  I  answered,  meaning  that  the  passions  that  drive  us  through  life  are  the  same  in  each  of  us,  but  Joe  took  my  remark  at  face  value.  &quot;What  shallow  kind  of  talk  is  that?&quot;  he  said  angrily,  and  he  got  up  and  began  walking  around.  We  were  in  the  living  room  of  his  house  on  Long  Island.  &quot;'This  marvellous  house,&quot;  he'd  called  it  a  few  minutes  earlier.  In  my  opinion  that  house  leaves  a  lot  to  be  desired,  but  houses  often  strike  me  that  way.  I'm  a  decorator.  Joe  and  I  met  when  I  was  working  for  some  people  named  Morrison,  who  live  near  him,  though  the  Morrisons  didn't  introduce  us-Joe  doesn't  know  them.  He  came  up  to  me  himself  one  evening  when  I  was  alone  on  the  beach.  I  thought  he  was  the  most  agreeable  man  I'd  ever  met  and  I  still  think  that,  though  I've  learned  that  he's  also  inclined  to  be  argumentative.  &quot;Of  course  there's  a  lot  to  know  about  anyone,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'There's  everything!&quot;  &quot;But  it  all  comes  down  to  the  same  things-love,  hate,  hun-  ger,  fear,  sickness,  sor-  row.  Circumstances  only  ring  the  changes.&quot;  &quot;Only!&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Would  you  say  you  knowme?&quot;  I  asked.  He  hesitated  and  then  conceded,  &quot;I  have  cer-  tain  strong  impressions.&quot;  I  let  it  go  at  that,  though  I  wondered  why,  of  the  two  propositions  -equally  true,  equally  false,  and  equally  obvi-  ous:  that  people  are  dif-  ferent,  that  people  are  the  same-he'd  defend-  ed  the  first,  when  on  the  evidence  he  himself  has  written  off  human  na-  ture  in  all  its  variety  or  predictability.  He  lives  alone  on  the  tip  of  the  Island,  loves  his  daughter  but  probably  no  one  else,  teaches  at  a  small  local  college  to  avoid  the  en-  croachments  on  him  that  there'd  be  at  a  school  with  more  of  a  name;  he  rolls  his  own  cigarettes,  grows  his  own  vegetables  in  his  own  greenhouse,  bakes  his  own  bread,  repairs  his  own  car  and  anything  else  of  his  that  breaks  down  --he's  a  scientist,  a  mathematician.  Twenty  yearsago,  when  he  was  thir-  ty-five,  he  made  what  was  an  impor-  tant  contribution  to  this  dry  discipline;  he  simplified  some  theorem,  eliminated  a  step  in  some  equation.  This  is  a  crowning  achievement  in  the  eyes  of  his  colleagues,  but  Joe  works  ferocious-  ly  on,  indifferent  to  the  question  ofsuc-  cess  or  failure.  I  love  his  industry,  but  more  than  that  I  love  his  ordinariness.  The  sight  of  him  in  a  navy-blue  nylon  turtleneck  pullover  thrills  me.  'The  sound  of  his  long,  deliberate,  confiden-  tial  (misleadingly  so)  &quot;Yeah&quot;  takes  my  breath  away.  He  is  so  on  key-the  key  of  C  major.  Intellectually  Joe  is  in  a  class  by  himself,  but  in  his  speech,  his  dress,  his  mannerisms  he's  the  common  man,  which  is  what  I  was  getting  at  in  my  &quot;pronouncement.&quot;  &quot;You're  really  so  average,&quot;  I'd  said.  &quot;You  could  eas-  ily  be  living  the  most  average  life.&quot;  I  meant  it  as  a  compliment,  a  high  compliment  at  that.  I  was  brought  up  to  be  different,  to  be  better,  with  the   result  that  nothing  appeals  to  me  more  than  the  common  touch.  But  Joe's  up-  bringing  was  an  ambiguous  affair.  His  mother  was  Italian,  his  father  English.  There  was  money  in  the  family,  but  not  the  background  that  gives  money  its  charm.  There  was  love,  too,  but  love  that  ran  hot  and  cold  and  did  more  harm  thangood.  Joe  is  sensitive  about  this  whole  picture-sensitive  also  about  himself  physically,  being  neither  young  nor  handsome.  Nor  particularly  well  put  together.  He's  too  tall,  which  has  given  him  a  stoop.  His  bottom  is  thin,  his  back  thick,  his  legs  heavy.  His  features  are  well  propor-  tioned,  but  his  face  has  a  haggard  look.  He  once  mentioned  that  he  resembles  his  mother,  but  I  think  his  expression  must  come  from  his  English  father,  along  with  a  certain  stifiness,  a  re-  finement  that  he  sometimes  repudiates  and  sometimes  indulges  in  himself.  Most  of  the  time,  though,  he  favors  the  Italian  side  of  his  nature,  the  side  that's  given  to  angry  outbursts  but  also  to  gestures  of  the  purest  sympathy.  He  came  over  and  sat  down  beside  me  on  the  sofa.  &quot;Are  you  blue?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;No,  I'm  not  blue,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Are  you  sure?&quot;  &quot;What  would  I  have  to  be  blue  about?&quot;  I  smiled  as  I  said  it,  know-  ing  the  question  wouldn't  be  answered,  for  we  don't  elaborate  on  our  feelings-my  feel-  ings,  that  is;  with  respect  to  me,  Joe  is  on  the  verge  of  feeling.  I  wait  for  him  to  falter  in  his  self-suffi-  ciency,to  stumble  into  frailty,  intimacy,  love.  He  said,  &quot;I'm  hungry.  What  about  you?&quot;  It  was  a  little  after  seven.  I'd  come  out  on  the  two-o'clock  train,  skipping  lunch,  but  I  never  feellike  eating  when  I'm  with  Joe.  He  absorbs  my  appetites,  leaving  me  indif-  ferent  to  food  or  sleep  or  exercise.  I  said,  &quot;I'm  not  particularly  hungry.&quot;  He  was  downcast.  &quot;Not  particularly  hungry?&quot;  My  lack  of  appetite  seemed  to  take  away  his.  He  has  an  ideal  of  closeness  that  real  men  and  women  for-  ever  fall  short  of,  and  the  gradual  realization  of  this  over  the  years  has  driven  him  into  himself  and  made  him  uncommu-  nicative.  He  loves  to  talk  on  the  phone,  though.  Dis-  " b"tance  brings  down  some  barrier,  free-  ing  the  man  I  originally  found  so  ap-  pealing.  &quot;Come  back  to  the  house  and  let  me  make  you  some  fried  clams,&quot;  he  said  that  first  evening,  as  if  we'd  been  running  into  each  other  on  the  beach  for  years.  The  clams  were  delicious;  Joe  is  a  good  cook.  &quot;I'm  going  to  eat  something,  but  what?&quot;  he  asked  himself  now,  and  went  over  to  the  kitchen.  I  could  hear  him  keeping  up  the  half-conversation  that  he  often  lapses  into-unfinished  comments,  unanswered  questions,  sometimes  just  sounds.  Solitude  is  his  natural  element,  and  I  began  to  feel  extraneous,  so  I  went  out  onto  the  deck.  From  Joe's  house  you  can  see  the  ocean.  It  was  perfectly  calm  that  night,  but  the  sky  was  full  of  a  raging  sunset.  The  air  was  cold  for  the  middle  of  June.  In  a  little  while  the  door  opened  and  he  handed  me  a  sweater.  Joe  is  sensible  in  the  way  another  man  might  be  romantic.  Where  someone  else  will  bring  flowers  and  pay  compliments,  he  bestows  sweaters  and  advice.  He  looked  out  over  the  sea  and  up  at  the  sky  and  then  said,  &quot;It's  damp  out  here.  You'll  catch  cold.&quot;  It  was  no  idle  comment.  Accuracy  is  a  passion  with  him,  and  he  always  means  what  he  says.  I  went  inside,  thinking  of  the  person  I  was  before  I  knew  Joe,  hardly  rec-  ognizing  myself.  I  used  to  live  cau-  tiously,  love  carefully,  measuring  every  move  against  a  standard  of  emotional  profit  and  loss,  but  Joe  is  beyond  my  powers  of  calculation.  I  love  him  and  live  dangerously,  catching  a  train  to  be  with  him  at  a  moment's  notice,  arrang-  ing  to  be  home  when  I  think  he  might  call,  bending  over  backwards  not  to  make  him  jealous,  not  to  be  the  one  to  let  the  distance  open  up  between  us.  It's  a  daring  course  to  pursue  with  someone  as  mercurial  as  he  is,  and  yet,  if  I  were  to  describe  the  state  of  my  heart  that  evening,  I'd  compare  it  to  the  calm  sea  rather  than  the  turbulent  sky.  He's  woken  something  new  in  me,  a  devotion  I  wouldn't  have  thought  I  was  capable  of-that  I  would,  in  fact,  had  I  suspected  myself  of  it  three  years  ago,  have  wanted  to  disavow.  Like  most  women  I'd  rather  play  the  heroine  than  the  supporting  part,  but  heroines,  even  the  mildest,  must  assert  themselves,  and  difficult  though  Joe  is  he  inspires  me  with  the  opposite  of  assertiveness-he  is  difficult  out  of  need,  difficult  rather  than  be  disap-  pointed,  rather  than  despair;  he  makes  me  forget  myself.  I  followed  him  to  the  kitchen  and  found  that  he'd  fixed  two  sandwiches  of  homemade  bread,  homegrown  let- tuce  and  tomatoes.  &quot;'They  look  deli-  cious,&quot;  I  said.  He  sliced  the  sand-  wiches,  put  them  on  plates,  and  gave  me  one.  &quot;Don't  you  want  it?&quot;  I  asked.  He  said,  &quot;No,  it's  for  you.  I  made  it  for  you.&quot;  He  poured  two  glasses  of  beer  and  shook  some  potato  chips  into  a  bowl,  which  he  offered  me,  say-  ing  &quot;Don't  be  shy&quot;  in  an  accent  that  was  pure  County  [REDACTED]-Joe  is,  of  all  things,  a  mimic.  I  went  laughing  into  the  living  room,  back  to  the  sofa.  When  he  came  in  he  settled  himself  in  his  dilapidated  easy  chair,  halfway  across  the  room.  He's  a  bit  nearsighted,  which  he  ignores,  being  also  a  little  vain.  &quot;What's  the  world  been  up  to?&quot;  he  said,  and  got  up  and  turned  the  tele-  vision  on  to  the  news.  &quot;Up  to  no  good,&quot;  I  said  as  the  pic-  ture  came  into  focus.  A  Presidential  candidate  was  being  endorsed  by  a  labor  leader.  Then  a  holdup  victim  came  on  and  described  his  ordeal.  Dan-  iel  Patrick  Moynihan  had  given  a  commencement  address  that  day,  and  afterwards  he  was  interviewed  by  re-  porters.  &quot;Do  you  know  who  he  re-  minds  me  of?&quot;  I  called  across  to  Joe.  He  said,  &quot;Who?&quot;  &quot;Barbara's  boyfriend.&quot;  Barbara  is  my  sister.  Joe  said,  &quot;What  about  him?&quot;  I  pointed  to  the  screen.  &quot;Daniel  Pat-  rick  Moynihan  reminds  me  of  Bar-  bara's  boyfriend.&quot;  Family  lore  interests  him,  possibly  because  in  his  own  family  the  past  seems  to  wither  away-for  lack  of  cultivation,  I'd  say.  When  his  parents  died  they  were  buried  uncere-  moniously.  One  of  his  brothers  lives  in  [REDACTED],  the  other  in  [REDACTED];  both  are  childless,  both  divorced.  Phone  calls  are  rare  among  them,  letters  unheard  of.  That  the  Fletchers  weren't  happy  could  explain  their  disregard  for  family  ties,  but  that  explanation  doesn't  satisfy  me.  My  own  upbringing  was  a  sorry  mess-a  broken  home  melodramatical-  ly  patched  and  repatched,  over  and  over-yet  my  parents  and  my  sisters  and  I  stick  together,  observing  the  fes-  tivals  of  our  common  life  as  faithfully  as  if  nothing  but  good  times  bound  us  to  each  other.  The  truth  is,  love  in  families  is  more  or  less  an  effort  that  Joe,  for  whatever  reasons,  can't  bring  himself  to  make,  though  he's  curious  about  our  birthdays,  wedding  anniver-  saries,  graduations,  Christmases.  &quot;When's  your  sister  getting  mar-  ried?&quot;  he  asked.  I  said,  for  the  hundredth  time  (he  harps  on  this),  &quot;I  don't  know.&quot;  He  shook  his  head.  His  own  mar-  riage  must  have  been  strained  to  the  breaking  point  by  this  skepticism,  for  doesn't  habitual  expectation  of  the  worst  leave  the  door  open  to  trouble?  And  on  the  other  hand,  isn't  hope  a  prereq-  uisite  for  happiness?  I  believe  that's  so,  and  it  irritates  me  to  have  Joe  voice  his  suspicions  about  my  sister's  admit-  tedly  long-drawn-out  romance.  &quot;Bar-  bara'd  better  watch  her  step,&quot;  he  said.  I  said,  &quot;Don't  worry  about  Barbara.  Harry  loves  her.&quot;  &quot;How  do  you  know?&quot;  he  asked,  not  so  much  doubting  as  requiring  proof,  but  I  had  no  equation  to  offer,  no  " b"mathematical  certitude-just  human  word,  as  unassailable  or  as  full  of  holes  as  you'll  let  it  be.  &quot;He  says  so.&quot;  Joe  shook  his  head  again  but  this  time  with  less  conviction.  Belief  affects  him.  It  disturbs  him,  rousing  secret  mis-  givings  as  to  the  hard  stand  he's  taken  on  life.  He  wouldn't  mind  discovering  he's  wrong,  but  it  isn't  that  easy.  Be-  lief  is  long,  and  Joe  is  impatient.  He  got  up  and  brought  his  dishes  out  to  the  kitchen.  I  heard  him  tidying  up-he's  a  meticulous  man.  His  kitchen  is  spot-  less,  his  house  immaculate.  I  took  the  lastbite  of  my  sandwich,  drank  the  last  of  my  beer,  and  brought  him  my  plate  and  my  glass.  &quot;Do  you  feel  like  going  to  a  movie?&quot;  he  asked.  If  he'd  been  in  good  spirits,  he'd  have  sug-  gested  a  walk  along  the  beach.  I  said,  &quot;What's  playing?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know.&quot;  He  shrugged  and  hooked  his  thumbs  in.  his  belt.  He  looked  tired  and  forlorn,  a  man  in  sudden  need  of  what  he  so  systemati-  cally  resists-a  helping  hand.  I  went  and  got  the  newspaper  and  looked  up  the  movie  listings.  &quot;Some  Robert  Redford  thing  is  at  the  R.K.O.,&quot;  I  called.  &quot;Still?  I  saw  that  two  weeks  ago  with  Mary.&quot;  Mary  is  his  daughter,  a  good-looking  girl  with  features  like  Joe's  but  dark  where  he's  fair.  There  are  pictures  of  her  all  around  the  house:  Mary  at  her  high-school  graduation  holding  a  bou-  quet  of  roses,  Mary  as  a  very  young  child  dressed  in  a  rabbit  costume,  Mary  bundled  up  in  sweaters  down  on  the  beach  by  the  water's  edge,  Mary  in  a  long  dress,  He  loves  her  without  re-  serve,  showering  on  her  the  affection  and  attention  that  he  withholds  from  others,  but  Mary  will  soon  be  eighteen,  and  though  she  loves  the  beach  she  spends  less  and  less  time  there.  I  said,  &quot;Can  you  stand  Robert  Red-  ford  again?  Not  that  I'm  dying  tosee  him.&quot;  &quot;Then  we'll  stay  put.&quot;  He  turned  off  the  kitchen  light  and  came  into  the  living  room  and  began  straightening  things  up.I  amused  my-  self,  as  I  often  do,  by  refurnishing  that  room  in  my  mind,  clearing  out  the  assorted  castoffs  that  Joe  has  assembled  there  and  replacing  them  with  wicker  chairs,  tables  made  of  unfinished  wood,  striped  canvas  and  flowered  cotton  slip-  covers,  grasscarpeting,  straw  blinds.  The  only  thing  I'd  keep  is  the  battered  grand  piano  that  stands  against  one  wall,  like  an  enormous  and  beloved  family  pet.  Joe  had  left  some  change  on  the  piano  cover.  He  put  the  coins  in  his  pocket  and  went  around  to  the  key-  board  and  struck  a  couple  of  chords.  When  he  was  twenty  or  so,  he  wanted  to  be  a  night-club  piano  player,  and  he'd  have  been  good  at  it.  He  has  a  straightforward  style  at  the  piano  and  he  has  the  temperament-ruefully  per-  sonable,  world-weary-of  the  best  bar-  room  musicians.  He  pulled  out  the  bench  and  sat  down  and  began  playing  songs  from  the  nineteen-forties.  In  those  years  he  was  a  young  man,  a  soldier  in  the  Second  World  War,  and  though  his  hair  is  completely  gray  now,  his  face  deeply  lined,  youth  is  what  he  still  suggests.  Age  has  made  him  pessimistic  but  no  less  susceptible,  and  this  comes  overwhelmingly  across  when  he's  at  the  piano.  &quot;Easy  Come,  Easy  Go,&quot;  &quot;Everything  Happens  to  Me,&quot;  &quot;I'll  Never  Smile  Again,&quot;  &quot;Imagination,&quot;  &quot;Skylark&quot;-I  was  a  child  when  those  songs  were  popular,  when  the  young  soldier  was  fighting  in  North  Africa.  Listening  to  him  play,  I  felt  our  lives  touch  in  a  way  that  was  remote  but  conclusive-we'd  shared  the  fear  and  the  danger  of  war-torn  times,  when  everything  was  threatened  and  everyone  seemed  close.  And  we'd  come  through.  I'd  have  liked  to  go  and  sit  beside  him  on  the  piano  bench,  marvelling  with  him  at  our  sur-  vival  and  at  the  happy  chance  of  our  paths  having  crossed,  but  I  knew  he  wouldn't  appreciate  it.  So  I  stayed  where  I  was,  thinking  about  him-  about  how  exacting  he  is,  how  ambiva-  lent,  how  intense,  how  impulsive,  how  funny  in  a  serious  sort  of  way,  how  realistic,  how  direct,  how  utterly  with-  out  affectation.  I  thought  of  his  flat  toes,  his  beautiful  teeth,  his  loud  laugh,  of  the  way  heswings  his  arms  when  he  walks,  closing  his  hands  into  fists.  I  know  a  lot  abouthim,  really.  When  he  said  I  didn't,  what  he  may  have  had  in  mind  was  the  fact  that  he  him-  self  tells  me  very  little.  My  knowledge  is  contraband,  acquired  by  stealth  when  I'm  with  him,  smuggled  away  on  my  person.  I  lookedover  at  him.  He  was  slouched  at  the  keyboard,  as  if  it  were  a  desk  full  of  papers.  His  eyes  were  half  closed.  He  was  in  another  world.  He  loves  to  play.  "