 b"SHE  bought  the  teacup  in  1939,  of  all  years.  It  was  on  sale  down-  town,  because  it  was  a  discon-  tinued  pattern.  Even  on  sale,  it  was  an  extravagance  as  far  as  her  new  in-laws  were  concerned;  it  set  her  apart.  She  used  to  say  how  she  just  put  the  money  down  on  that  counter  and  let  Aunt  Gert  sigh  as  loud  as  she  pleased.  1939.  My  mother  was  buying  dish-  es  that  had  come  from  [REDACTED],  because  they  made  the  best  china  and  she  was  marrying  an  American  Czech.  Most  of  the  teacups  are  still  unbroken.  They're  mine  now,  because  I'm  her  daughter  and  she  cleanedout  her  china  cabinet  last  week.  Each  piece  has  a  tiny  &quot;[REDACTED]&quot;  stamped  on  the  bot-  tom.  The  cup  is  thin-you  can  almost  see  through  its  paleness  when  it's  emp-  ty;  right  now,  there's  tea  in  it,  and  its  level  can  be  gauged  from  the  shadow  outside.  The  cup  is  the  palest  water-  green  imaginable.  Sometimes,  in  cer-  tain  lights,  it  is  so  pale  it  doesn't  seem  green  at  all,  just  something  not  white.  It  is  shiny,  and  there  are  thin  bands  of  gold  around  the  edges  of  the  saucer  and  cup,  and  again  midway  down  the  bowl  of  the  cup  and  at  its  base,  which  is  subtly  formed  into  a  semi-pedestal.  There  is  also  a  band  of  gold  on  the   inner  circle  of  the  saucer,  but  it  has  been  worn  away,  after  so  many  years,  except  for  a  dulled,  blurred  line.  There  is  no  other  decoration  on  the  outside  of  the  cup-a  bland  precision  of  lines  and  curved  light.  But  inside  the  cup  there  are  flowers,  as  if  someone  had  scattered  a  bouquet  and  it  had  tumbled  into  separate  blos-  soms,  falling  in  a  full  circle  around  the  inside.  Some  have  fallen  faster  to  the  bottom  of  the  cup,  while  some  are  still  floating.  The  blossoms  don't  seem  to  be  pasted  on  the  surface  like  decals,  they  really  appear  to  be  caught  in  motion.  And  now,  for  the  first  time,  alone  in  my  own  house  (I've  never  been  alone  with  one  of  these  cups  before;  they  were  her  company  dishes),  I  see  that  no  two  flowers  on  the  cup  or  the  saucer  are  the  same.  Each  a  different  flow-  er-different  colors,  different  altitudes  of  falling,  nothing  to  create  a  pat-  tern.  Yet  the  cup  and  saucer  together  are  pure  light,  something  extremely  delicate  but  definite.  As  refined  as  a  face.  My  mother's  face,  which  has  fallen  into  sadness.  Nothing  tragic  ever  hap-  pened  to  her-&quot;nothing  big,&quot;  she'll  say.  I  am  the  one  who  has  wanted  some-  thing  big.  &quot;I  know  the  most  important  thing   in  the  world,&quot;  I  told  her  when  I  was  ten.  &quot;Well,  what  is  it?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;Work,  Work  is  the  most  important  thing.&quot;  Her  face  showed  fear.  &quot;Oh,  no,&quot;  she  said  quickly,  trying  to  sweep  away  the  thought.  &quot;No.  Family  is  the  im-  portant  thing.  Family,  darling.&quot;  Even  then,  her  voice  was  sounding  a  fare-  well,  the  first  of  all  those  goodbyes  mothers  say  to  their  daughters.  Or  maybe  our  parting  began  one  day  when  Dad  came  up  behind  her  in  the  kitchen.  He  kissed  her  on  the  back  of  the  neck.  She  thought  they  were  alone,  but  my  brother  and  I  had  fol-  lowed  him  into  the  kitchen.  He  kissed  her  neck  just  where  the  hair  stops.  She  turned  from  the  sink  like  a  sway-  ing  stem,  with  her  hands  all  full  of  soapsuds,  and  puther  stem  arms  around  his  neck,.  Her  eyes  were  closed,  her  arms  heavy  and  soapy.  Pure  and  pas-  sionate  soap  arms  of  my  mother.  He  drew  her  down  suddenly  in  a  swooping  joke  of  an  embrace-a  Valentino  bend,  an  antic  pose  for  us  giggling  kids.  He  swept  her  in  his  arms  and  gave  her  lips  a  clownish  kiss.  We  giggled,  and  our  father  laughed  and  turned  to  grin  at  his  audience.  &quot;My  dahling,  I  luff  you!&quot;  he  said  to  her  soulfully.  Her  body  struggled  awkwardly,  her  eyes  flew  open,  and  she  tried  to  rise  from  his  clownish  embrace.  &quot;No,  no,&quot;  she  said.  No,  no  to  any  joke.  She  stood  at  the  edge  of  her  red-  petalled  life.  There  are  buds  that  never  open.  &quot;Just  let  me  up,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I've  got  these  dishes  to  do.  Let  me  up.&quot;  And  she  plunged  her  hands  back  into  the  dishwater.  Every  night,  she  swam  with  her  thoughts  in  that  small  sea.  N  the  cup,  amid  the  bundle  of  pastel  fall-  ing  flowers  at  the  bot-  tom  of  the  bowl  there  is  another  firm,  thin  gold  circlet.  It  shines  up  just  below  the  most  deeply  submerged  flow-  er,  like  a  shoreline  sub-  merged  by  a  momen-  tary  tide  of  morning  tea.  The  engulfed  flow-  ers  become  oranges  and  violets-those  col-  ors.  Above  the  tea-line  there  are  green  leaves  and  several  jots  of  blue  flowers,  not  deep  and  " b"bright  like  cornflowers  but  a  powdery,  toneless  blue,  a  monochrome  without  shadow  or  cloud.  Also,  there  is  the  shape  of  the  flow-  ers.  Some  are  plump,  all  curve  and  weight.  There  is  a  pale  lavender  rose  on  the  saucer,  with  a  rounded,  balled-up  cabbage  head  of  petals;  and  on  the  opposite  side  a  spiky,  orange  dahlia-  like  flower.  None  of  the  flowers  looks  real.  They  are  suggestions,  pale,  almost  unfinished,  with  occasional  sparks  of  brightness,  like  a  replica  of  memory  itself.  There  is  a  slur  of  recollection  about  them,  something  imprecise,  seductive,  and  foggy  but  held  to-  gether  with  a  bright  bolt  of  accuracy-per-  haps  a  piercing  glance  from  a  long-dead  un-  cle,  whose  face,  all  the  features,  has  otherwise  faded  and  gone.  In  1939,  in  [REDACTED],  my  mother  was  a  bride.  That  was  the  first  year  of  the  war,  when  Europe  began  to  eat  it-  self  raw.  In  the  newspaper  picture  an-  nouncing  the  marriage,  her  head  had  a  halo.  A  golden  light  was  around  her  head.  &quot;I  wasn't  one  for  buying  a  lot  of  stuff,&quot;  she  tells  me.  &quot;You  only  need  so  much.  I  bought  what  I  needed  when  I  got  married.&quot;  In  the  past  few  years,  she's  been  giving  me  many  of  those  things,  piece  by  piece.  Every  time  I  go  over  to  visit,  she  says,  &quot;Well,  you  might  as  well  take  the  yellow  tablecloth.&quot;  Or  there  will  be  a  pile  of  silverware  she'll  want  me  to  have.  These  tea-  cups.  I'm  always  walking  off  with  something.  I  try  to  get  her  to  talk  about  her  life,  but  she  won't  do  that.  It's  not  that  she  thinks  I'm  prying.  &quot;Well,  honey,  what  doyou  want  to  know?&quot;  she  says.  &quot;I  mean,  what's  there  to  say?&quot;  And  she  pushes  her  hair,  which  is  still  more  blond  than  anything  else,  away  from  her  face,  and  she  looks  really  beautiful.  I  start  talking  fast,  saying  how  every-  body  knows  the  world  has  changed  a  lot  since  the  Second  World  War  ended,  and  she  was  alive  when  Hitler  was  in  power,  for  God's  sake,  and  she's  lived  through  something,  and  it's  part  of  his-  tory.  &quot;It  wasn't  that  long  ago,&quot;  she  says,  and  flips  her  honey  hair  again  and  lights  a  cigarette.  &quot;Besides,  you'd  have  to  talk  to  somebody  from  Europe  about  all  that.  They  lived  through  it.&quot;  Once  she  told  me  that  in  high  school  she'd  had  an  assignment  to  write  an  essay  about  why  Hitler  was  good  for  Ger-  many.  &quot;Personally,  I  never  liked  him,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;We  were  always  Democrats.  But  we  had  that  assignment.&quot;  So  I  go  over  to  visit,  and  we  talk  and  I  ask  all  these  questions  and  she  says,  &quot;You  sound  like  one  of  those  oral-his-  tory  projects,&quot;  and  I  say,  &quot;No,  really,  I'm  interested.&quot;  I'm  always  telling  her,  anything  you  can  remember,  any  de-  tail-it's  really  important.  Everybody's  life  is  important,  I  say.  I'm  interested.  I  can't  even  explain  why.  Sometimes  she  says  things  like  &quot;You  know,  I  bet  you  won't  believe  this,  but  we  girls,  way  back-and  this  wasn't  in  the  country,  either-we  used  to  use  cotton  strips  all  bundled  up,  instead  of  Kotex.  And  we'd  wash  them  out  and  use  them  over  again.&quot;  Or,  &quot;The  first  pair  of  nylon  stockings  I  bought,  they  lasted  two  years.  Then  stockings  started  not  lasting.&quot;  Once,  she  looked  across  the  kitchen  table  at  me  and  said,  almost  experimentally,  as  if  she  wanted  to  hear  how  it  would  sound  aloud,  &quot;You  know,  one  time  your  father  came  home,  just  an  ordinary  day,  and  I  looked  up  and  I  wasn't  even  thinking,  it  just  darted  into  my  head:  Someday  he'll  walk  in  and  I  just  won't  be  here,  I'll  just  leave.  But  it  never  happened.&quot;  None  of  it  amounts  to  anything,  though.  Her  details  don't  add  up  to  a  life  story.  Maybe  that's  why  she's  been  giving  me  all  these  things  the  past  few  years-her  possessions,  everything  she  bought  in  1939,  the  year  of  her  mar-  riage.  This  teacup,  which  I  look  at  closely,  for  a  long  time,  sitting  at  my  own  white-and-yellow  kitchen  table,  alone,  acrossthe  city  from  her.  The  teacup  was  made  in  a  country  far  away,  of  which  other  countries  knew  little,  An  English  politician  (but  you  can't  go  just  blaming  Aim,  my  mother  says)  shook  a  nation  away  as  he  tightly  furled  his  black  umbrella.  A  country  lost  its  absorption  in  peaceful  work,  lost  its  pure  science  of  flinging  flowers  onto  the  sides  of  teacups.  I  tell  her  I  believe  that  something  could  have  been  different.  What  would  have  happened  if  someone  with  an  im-  portant  black  umbrella  had  considered  the  future  of  teacups,  if  powerful  men  bowed  their  heads  at  the  difficulties  of  implanting  the  waxy  tulip  on  porce-  lain?  Old  questions-certain  people  have  tried  to  answer  them,  there  are  books.  But  many  ofus  still  live  with  the  details;  the  souvenirs  of  some  places  are  never  broken.  This  cup  is  a  detail,  a  small  uncharred  finger  from  the  mid-  century  bonfire.  I  VISIT  my  mother.  We  sit  in  her  blue-and-white  kitchen.  My  mother  stands  up  forthe  future.  &quot;Life  goes  on,  " b"you  can't  keep  going  over  things,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;It's  the  fZow  of  life  that  counts.&quot;  She  wants  me  toride  forward  into  the  golden  light  that  she  says  is  the  future  and  all  its  possibility.  &quot;Look  ahead,&quot;  she  tells  me.  I  try,  but  everything  drives  me  into  the  past  that  she  insists  is  safely  gone.  How  can  I  ride  forward  on  her  errand  when  all  the  world,  even  the  smallest  object,  sends  me  back,  sets  me  wonder-  ing  over  and  over  about  our  own  strange  life  and  country,  always  trying  to  understand  history  and  sexuality.  Details,  however  small,  get  sorted  into  their  appropriate  stories,  all  right,  but  I  am  always  holding  out  forthe  past  and  thinking  how  it  keeps  coming  back  at  us.  No  details  are  disparate,  I  tell  her.  Mother,  the  cups  were  discon-  tinued  because  a  country  was  discontin-  ued.  &quot;Oh,  but  now  you're  talking  poli-  tics,&quot;  she  says,  and  clears  off  the  kitchen  table.  &quot;Over  my  head,  over  my  head,&quot;  she  says.  But  it's  not.  That's  what  makes  me  mad.  She  knows.  They  all  do,  those  brides  who  chose  their  china  in  1939.  Many  things  fell  that  year,  for  those  brides-not  only  flowers  into  teacups.  Their  bodies  fell,  paired  with  other  bodies,  on  beds  together  for  the  first  time.  &quot;But  that  was  no  tragedy,&quot;  she  says,  smiling,  with  her  hands  on  the  back  of  a  chair.  Smiling  because  she  knows  after  all  our  talks  that  I  think  something  was  wasted  when  she  first  fell.  Because  I  have  refused  to  fall.  &quot;Some  people  just  don't  want  to  get  married-I  know  that,&quot;  she  says  broadmindedly.  But  she  knows  I'm  saying  marriage  isn't  there  anymore;  the  flowered  flannel  nightgown  isn't  being  hung  on  a  peg  in  a  closet  next  to  a  pair  of  striped  drawstring  pajamas  anymore.  We  don't  get  married  any-  more,  Mother.  Don't  blame  me;  I  didn't  think  it  up.  &quot;Don't  talk  like  a  sausage,&quot;  she'll  say.  &quot;Some  people-there  are  always  some  people  who  do  not  went  to  get  married.  I  understand  this.  I  un-  derstand  you.  You  don't  want  to  get  married.  Fine.  That's  just  fine.  It's  fine.  Many  people  live  ...  that  way.&quot;  Her  own  marriage,  I  agree,  was  no  tragedy.  It  was  theold  bow  pulled  across  the  cello,  making  its  first  sex-  ual  sound  again.  Another  generation  joining  the  long,  low  moan.  The  falling  of  flowers  down  the  sides  of  teacups,  the  plunging  bodies  on  white  sheets-I  know  people  could  take  any  amount  of  this  pain.  But  the  falling  of  the  other  bodies,  the  rain  of  bodies   in  Europe,  that  happened  that  year  too,  Mother.  Marriage,  that's  one  thing;  we  agree  that  for  her  it  was  no  tragedy,  wasn't  the  end,  really.  ButEurope  was  already  broken,  broken  for  good;  there  was  no  replacing  a  nation  of  glassblow-  ers.  Bodies  fell  that  year  in  537061696e,  too.  In  the  cities  of  537061696e,  women  looked  up  at  the  sky  in  terror.  In  Bar-  celona,  almost  forthe  first  time  in  his-  tory,  a  woman  carrying  home  a  branch  of  forsythia  wrapped  in  waxed  paper  ran  for  cover,  hiding  from  the  air.  In  that  war,  bombs  fell  on  women  from  the  air,  and  it  was  planned.  My  mother  says  she  can't  get  over  how  I'm  always  connecting  things.  &quot;Everybody  I  know  talks  this  way,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;Does  it  embarrass  you?&quot;  &quot;No.  Just-well,  tell  the  truth.&quot;  &quot;I  will.  I'll  try  to.&quot;  The  only  real  difference  between  us,  between  my  mother  and  me,  is  all  the  talking  I  do.  Her  cello  voice  was  drowned  somewhere  in  the  sound  of  falling  flowers,  in  marriage,  in  the  new  thought  of  bombs  falling  on  women  with  flowers,  with  teacups.  But  this  particular  teacup  and  its  golden  shore-  line  escaped,  and  she  and  I  have  both  sat  with  it  in  our  kitchens.  She  gave  it  to  me.  Mothers  know  their  daughters  go  to  their  bedrooms  and  try  on  the  " b"strange  clothes  women  wear  and  look  at  themselves  in  the  full-length  mirror,  trying  to  understand  the  future,  the  lipstick,  the  bras.  Is  there  a  mother  who  gives  a  daughter  a  teacup  and  thinks  itis  not  also  inspected?  &quot;Mother,&quot;  I  said  last  week  when  I  was  over  to  visit  and  she  was  putting  red  tulips  in  a  vase,  talking  about  how  everybody  she  knew  smoked  and  how  she  was  glad  I'd  never  taken  it  up.  &quot;Mother,  everybody  I  know,  they're  always  talking  about  their  parents,  try-  ing  to  figure  out  their  mothers.  Did  you  do  that?  My  friends,  we  all  do  that.&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;We  didn't,  I  guess.  We  didn't  talk  the  way  you  do.  We  didn't,  you  know,  have  relationships.&quot;  Then  she  remembered  about  the  tea-  cups,  and  we  changed  the  conversation.  If  she  were  alone  having  a  cup  of  tea,  asI  am  now,  she  would  be  smok-  ing  a  cigarette,  staring  dreamily  out  the  kitchen  window,  absently  rubbing  her  index  finger  over  the  nail  of  her  thumb  (she  still  uses  nail  polish)  in  circle  after  circle.  The  smokewould  be  circling  around  her  head  of  honey-  and-smoke  hair.  Just  sitting.  I  can  see  her.  This  afternoon,  though,  itis  my  fin-  gerlooped  in  the  ear  of  this  European  cup.  She  is  not  the  only  submerged  figure  I  see--she  and  this  buoyant  cabbage-head  rose.  There  is  so  much  sinking,  no  hand  can  hold  all  that  has  happened.  We  sit  around  a  kitchen  table,  my  friends  and  I,  and  try  to  describe  even  one  thing,  but  it  flies  apart  in  words.  Whole  afternoons  go.  Women  often  waste  time  this  way.  But  history  has  to  get  written  somehow.  'There  are  all  these  souvenirs  in  our  houses.  We  have  to  wash  and  dust  them.  They  get  handed  down  when  there's  no  way  of  explaining  things.  It's  as  if  my  mother  has  always  been  saying,  Darling,  look  at  the  teacup.  It  has  more  to  say. "