 b"ARE  there  roads  in  [REDACTED]?&quot;&quot;  Aunt  [REDACTED]  asked.  &quot;Do  you  eat  bread  in  [REDACTED]?  What  kind  of  bread?  What  is  the  speed  limit  on  your  roads?  Did  you  do  your  studies  in  English  or  in  556e6974656420537461746573n?  I  haven't  seen  you  in  twenty-seven  years!  Do  you  remember  our  old  maid,  Marie,  with  whom  you  skimmed  the  foam  off  the  raspberry  jam?  She  died  shortly  after  the  war,  at  the  age  of  ninety-eight.  Do  you  think  you  could  send  me  some  African  stamps  from  the  United  [REDACTED]?  Possibly  you  could  find  some  from  Zaire.  ...&quot;  I  was  being  welcomed  back  to  the  castle  of  Saint-Seran,  where  my  fa-  ther's  family  had  lived  since  the  year  1560.  Aunt  [REDACTED]  was  the  widow  of  the  oldestof  my  father's  brothers,  all  four  of  whom  were  now  dead.  A  heavy  woman  with  silvery  hair  tum-  bling  over  an  exorbitantly  pink  face,  she  was  seated  by  a  television  set  in  her  living  room,  a  piece  of  tapestry  work  and  a  large  stamp  album  on  her  lap.  And  as  she  greeted  me  her  mind  swung  excitedly  among  rare  postage  stamps,  family  tragedies,  and  historical  cataclysms.  &quot;What  about  [REDACTED]?&quot;  she  continued.  &quot;What  about  [REDACTED]?  What  about  your  President?  We  have  a  lot  of  catching  up  to  do!  How  curious  of  you  not  to  have  returned  sooner!  And  why  are  you  staying  in  a  hotel  in  Nantes  when  we  have  all  the  room  in  the  world  for  you?&quot;  And  she  pointed  to  the  bedding  scat-  tered  about  her  living  room  and  also  about  the  entire  house.  It  was  the  most  startling  feature  of  this  dwelling,  which  I  had  not  entered  since  the  age  of  fifteen  and  where  I  had  spent  some  of  my  happiest  childhood  holidays;  it  somehow  made  my  long  absence  seem  all  the  odder.  There  were  army  cots  stood  up  helter-skelter  against  the  eighteenth-century  boiseries  of  the  old  library,  folding  beds  crammed  in  the  hallways,  sleeping  bags  strewn  about  the  little  dining  room  to  which  Aunt  [REDACTED]  hobbled  to  take  her  meals,  more  beds  stacked  against  the  del-  icate  Louis  XIII  staircase  that  wound  upstairs  from  the  front  entrance  hall.  This  proliferation  of  sleeping  arrange-  ments  was  in  bizarre  contrast  to  the  bleak  gray  walls  hung  with  por-  traits  of  ancestors,  to  the  forbidding  crucifixes  dominating  a  wall  of  every  room,  to  the  austerity  of  the  gray  stone  floors  left  uncarpeted  since  the  German  Occupation.  It  gave  the  castle  an  air  of  warm  and  extravagant  bohemi-  anism.  It  also  testified  to  the  enor-  mous  number  of  grandchildren,  great-  grandchildren,  nephews,  and  nieces  who  flocked  back  here  every  summer  with  an  eagerness  that  I  found  mys-  terious,  seeing  how  terrified  I  had  been  of  my  own  return.  My  father,  trying  to  join  de  Gaulle  in  [REDACTED]  in  the  summer  of  1940,  had  died  in  a  plane  crash  over  the  Spanish  coast.  He  was  buried  near  Saint-Seran,  in  a  cemetery  I  had  never  dared  to  visit.  I  had  spent  a  good  part  of  my  life  denying  the  re-  ality  of  his  death.  And  in  1974,  as  I  finally  sat  facing  Aunt  [REDACTED],  I  was  assailed  by  another  fear  that  had  haunt  ed  me:  that  my  father's  family  would  bear  me  too  much  rancor  after  my  long  absence  for  any  return  to  be  bearable;  that  I  could  never  return.  Rancor?  Quite  the  contrary!  My  aunt's  inquisitive,  gentle  eyes  seemed  filled  with  gratitude  at  my  visit.  Seven-  ty-six  years  old,  confined  to  the  first  floor  of  the  dwelling  byher  great  weight,  she  was  as  curious  about  con-  temporary  events  as  she  was  reluctant  to  witness  them  at  first  hand.  And  she  treated  my  arrival  as  if  it  were  the  most  precious  of  gifts-a  totally  riskless  ex-  posure  to  the  modern  world.  &quot;Don't  you  dare  think  I'm  out  of  touch,&quot;  she  announced  emphatically,  and  pointed  to  the  large  RCA  televi-  sion  set.  &quot;Even  though  I've  not  once  been  to  [REDACTED]  since  the  Second  World  War.  It's  only  a  four-hour  train  ride  from  Nantes  nowadays,  but  there  is  something  about  the  capital  which  most  of  our  family  has  always  disliked  and  feared.  The  many  new  ideas,  perhaps  ...  the  modernism  .  ..  the  size  .  ..  the  craze  for  novelty  ...the  foreign  visi-  tors  ...&quot;  Her  fingers  fidgeting  with  a  corner  of  her  stamp  album,  her  cane  tapping  agitatedly  on  the  floor,  she  stared  at  her  foreign  visitor  with  the  furtive,  taunting  excitement  with  which  we  sometimes  stare  at  a  tiger  safely  caged  in  a  zoo.  &quot;You're  not  going  to  tell  me,  in  this  house,&quot;  she  challenged  me  with-  in  ten  minutes  of  our  first  embrace,  &quot;that  416c6765726961n  independence  was  not  a  monstrosity.  Just  think  of  your  great-  granduncle  General  de  Lamorici\xc3\xa9re,  who  dedicated  his  life  to  conquering  [REDACTED]  for  [REDACTED],  and  your  father's  brother,  Uncle  Andr\xc3\xa9,  whom  inde-  pendence  left  totally  destitute  at  the  age  of  sixty-seven.  And  now  it's  the  416c6765726961ns  who  are  bankrupt;  we  gave  them  freedom  much  too  early  for  their  own  good-not  to  speak  of  ours.  That's  one  point  on  which  I  broke  totally  with  our  great  de  Gaulle,  but,  God  bless  his  soul,  he  may  have  been  forced  into  it.  Tell  me,  aren't  you  afraid  of  an  invasion  of  Chinese  into  the  United  [REDACTED]?&quot;  No,  I  said,  there  were  many  things  to  fear,  but  that  was  not  one  of  them.  &quot;Well,  I  think  you're  overly  op-  timistic.  They  might  just  turn  out  to  be  like  the  Africans  in  England  or  the  Arabs  here-drive  you  out  of  job  and  home.  And  what  about  [REDACTED]?  How  is  it  that  you  did  not  manage  to  learn  a  lesson  from  our  history  and  immediate-  ly  getout?  What  a  frightful  decade  you  must  have  lived  through!&quot;  Yes,  I  said,  I'd  been  arrested  for  taking  part  in  demonstrations  against  the  war  in  [REDACTED].  She  clapped  her  plump  little  hands,  and  appeared  to  feel  increasingly  safe  in  my  company.  &quot;Bravo,  bravo!  That's  just  what  any  of  us  would  have  done.  Risk!  Acting  out  one's  conscience  al-  ways  entails  some  risk.  I  must  tell  you  that  two  of  your  second  cousins,  Pierre  and  Yves,  were  deported  to  [REDACTED]  for  their  work  in  the  [REDACTED],  and  nearly  went  mad  in  theprison  camp,  and  after  thirty  years  have  still  not  fully  recovered.  Foreigners  tend  to  forget  how  we  are  scarred  by  the  Re-  sistance,  howmany  generations  it  takes  for  these  wounds  to  heal.  You're  going  to  visit  your  father's  grave  tomorrow  or  the  day  after?&quot;  Yes,  I  said,  it  had  beenvery  much  on  my  mind  to  do  that.  &quot;Well,  there  is  something  you  do  not  know  about  him  that  itis  very  im-  portant  for  you  to  know.  After  we  saw  you  last,  we  heard  from  the  Army  chaplain  in  Gibraltar  that  all  the  men  on  your  father's  plane  were  still  con-  scious  when  they  crashed  on  the  beach;  that  they  were  all  abletoreceive  ex-  treme  unction.&quot;  She  watched  my  face  closely,  waiting  to  be  rewarded  with  an  expression  of  gratitude,  which  did  not  come.  For  the  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  first  time,  she  seemed  irritated  with  me.  &quot;But  you  live  in  a  world  of  delusions,  my  dear!  You  don't  seem  to  realize  what  joy  it  gave  us  to  know  that  he  had  received  the  last  sacraments!  Just  think  how  ghastly  it  would  have  been  if  the  plane  he  was  on  had  fallen  into  the  sea  like  the  oth-  ers-if  we  hadn't  been  able  eventually  to  bring  his  body  here.  You  see,  God  always  gives  us  something  to  be  grate-  ful  for,  if  you  look  at  life  in  the  right  way.&quot;  And  she  crossed  herself  with  great  cheerfulness.  I  stared  at  the  cru-  cifix  that  hung  on  the  wall  above  the  televi-  sion  set,  alongside  a  pic-  ture  of  de  Gaulle  and  other  hallowed  dead,  thinking,  Yes,  this  is  the  kind  of  grim  detail  that  I  must  be  prepared  to  face  here,  that  I  have  felt  incapable  of  facing  up  to  now.  At  such  times  my  mind  took  refuge  from  her  chatter  in  safely  historic,  encyclopedic  meditations  on  the  countryside  about  me:  &quot;''The  Vend\xc3\xa9e,  a  maritime  province  of  western  [REDACTED]  adjoining  the  south-  east  boundary  of  Brittany,  one  of  [REDACTED]'s  most  conservative  districts,  was  the  region  which  most  fiercely  re-  sisted  the  Revolution  of  1789.  The  Chouans,  Royalist  peasant  bands  well  documented  in  the  Balzac  novel  named  after  them,  instigated  a  series  of  Royal-  ist  insurrections  which  lasted  well  in-  to  the  nineteenth  century....&quot;  The  landscape  out  of  Aunt  [REDACTED]'s  win-  dow  was  as  flat  as  any  in  my  memory.  There  was  not  a  hillock,  not  a  rock  to  disturb  the  monotonous  platitude  of  its  horizon.  A  serene,  dead-straight  alley  of  luxuriant  chestnut  trees  stretched  from  the  castle  to  the  country  road.  To  the  left  stood  some  dilapidated  buildings  that  had  once  served  as  stables  and  servants'  quarters.  The  old  orangerie  to  the  right  of  the  entrance  had  also  been  abandoned  since  the  war,  when  the  family  fortunes  declined  sharply.  In  the  flower  beds  circling  the  castle's  entrance  only  the  simplest  and  most  tenacious  of  flowers-hydrangeas,  geraniums-fought  their  way  nobly  through  tall  clumps  of  weeds. &quot;Now  for  the  family  albums,&quot;  Aunt  [REDACTED]  was  saying.  &quot;Let's  start  with  1936.  We'll  do  '37  in  the  afternoon,  and  perhaps  '38  after  tea,  if  we're  not  too  tired.  Here  you  are,  aged  five,  with  your  cousin  Daniel,  who's  coming  from  Nantes  to  lunch  with  you.  There  you  are  with  Louise,  your  oldest  cous-  in,  who  is  coming  from  [REDACTED]  tomor-  row  to  see  you.  And  look  at  that  sweet  picture  of  you  with  Catherine,  who  is  coming  to  meet  you  here  this  after-  noon.  Ah,  here's  one  of  you  with  your  father  and  all  six  of  your  Saint-Seran  cousins.  Mercy,  how  they  adored  him!  He  was  their  hero.&quot;  She  lingered  with  particular  affection  over  this  snapshot  of  my  father  surrounded  by  a  pack  ofchildren.  We  were  swarming  and  climbing  up  his  limbs  as  if  he  were  a  huge  oak  tree.  Cousins,  cousins-I  nev-  er  knew  anyone  could  possess  as  many  as  I  did.  Throughout  the  day  they  tumbled  out  of  Aunt  [REDACTED]'s  al-  bums  as  prolifically  as  the  camp  beds  set  out  to  accommodate  them,  testify-  ing  to  the  redoubtable  fact  that,in  oth-  er  parts  of  [REDACTED],  each  of  my  father's  three  brothers  had  borne  a  minimum  of  five  children,  most  of  whom  had  also  had  five  or  six  of  their  own,  And  thir-  ty  or  forty  of  themcame  back  here  every  summer.  It  was  awesome,  this  proliferation  of  shared  protoplasm,  to  someone  who  had  been  brought  up  kin-  less  in  the  New  World.  Every  few  hours,  some  new  batch  of  my  tribes-  men  would  arrive,  each  greeting  me  with  different  tones  of  curiosity,  irony,  emotion.  &quot;J  TS  very  nice  of  you  to  come  back  after  twenty-seven  years,&quot;  my  cousin  Daniel  hollered  at  me  from  the  front  door,  by  way  of  greeting.  &quot;Awfully  good  of  you  finally  to  come  back!&quot;  I  stared  at  him  with  particular  curiosity,  for  he  was  depicted  in  one  of  the  few  childhood  photographs  that  had  followed  me  to  [REDACTED].  It  showed  us  together  at  the  age  of  six,  both  sucking  on  lollipops,  and  both  dressed  in  white  for  someone's  First  Communion.  My  arm  was  linked  through  his,  and  he  looked  miserable  under  my  possessive  embrace-I  had  been  madly  in  love  with  him  at  that  age.  He  was  now  a  tall,  angular  businessman  in  his  forties,  with  tobacco-stained  teeth.  &quot;You  could  have  given  us  some  sign  of  life  earlier,  you  know,&quot;  he  con-  tinued  to  roar.  &quot;Awfully  strange  be-  " b"havior.  Strange  notion  of  family  you  have  in  the  United  [REDACTED].  We've  al-  ways  heard  556e6974656420537461746573ns  have  no  great  sense  of  family  or  of  the  past.  Well,  my  dear,  you're  a  living  proof,  So  you've  finally  decided  to  come  back.  We  were  never  about  to  spank  you  or  anything  for  staying  away.  Your  father  was  one  of  my  best  friends  when  I  was  a  child.  A  hero  to  us  all,  God  knows.  Every  few  years  our  newspapers  still  ask  for  a  picture  of  him  to  illustrate  another  story  on  the  early  days  of  the  Resistance.  I'd  have  recognized  you  in  a  crowd  a  hun-  dred  yards  away!  Ah  well,  give  us  a  kiss;  it's  good  to  have  you  back!&quot;  And  he  embraced  me  powerfully,  his  clothes  giving  offthe  pungent  odor  of  Gitanes.  It  was  almost  time  for  lunch.  On  this  August  holiday-the  Feast  of  the  Assumption  of  the  Blessed  Virgin  Mary-young  cousins  from  Nantes,  from  Rennes,  from  Brest  kept  flocking  unannounced  to  the  family  house,  arriving  on  motorcycles  and  in  quatre-chevaux  with  the  suddenness  with  which  a  lover  surprises  his  mistress  on  an  idle  afternoon.  &quot;Yes,  here  they  are,&quot;  Daniel  said  pointedly.  &quot;They've  got  a  sense  of  family.  Properly  brought  up  people.  You  can't  keep  them  away.&quot;  The  helter-skelter  village  girl  in  charge  of  Aunt  [REDACTED]'s  housekeeping  scur-  ried  about,  peeling  more  potatoes,pick-  ing  more  tomatoes.  &quot;It's  always  like  this  in  the  summer,&quot;  Aunt  [REDACTED]  grumbled  good-naturedly  as  she  hob-  bled  about,  masterminding  the  frantic  resetting  of  the  table.  &quot;Sometimes  we're  three,  sometimes  eighteen.  I  wish  they'd  let  me  know  with  a  little  phone  call,  I  who  tryto  build  my  life  around  the  accurate  and  precise  reception  of  world  news,  lunch  at  twelve  sharp  so  I  can  get  the  one  o'clock  bulletin  d'in-  formation,  dinner  punctually  at  seven  so  I  can  see  the  best  of  the  evening  reports.  ...&quot;  With  an  entrancing  blend  offor-  mality  and  confusion,  melon,  fish,  chicken,  a  vegetable,  salad,  cheese,  and  fruit  were  served  separately  on  seven  changes  of  slightly  chipped,  two-hun-  dred-year-old  family  china.  &quot;So  what  do  you  do  in  [REDACTED]?&quot;  Daniel  shout-  ed  across  the  table.  &quot;Write  about  cur-  rent  events,  I  suppose?  I  don't  know  how  you  can  keep  up  with  them,  where  you  live.&quot;  &quot;Where's  Dayton,  Ohio?&quot;  asked  a  young  cousin  who  had  arrived  from  Nantes  on  his  motorcycle.  &quot;In  the  cen-  ter  of  your  country  or  on  the  coast?&quot;   &quot;You  only  have  two  children?  Why  'such  a  small  family?&quot;  &quot;Do  your  sons  play  soccer,  Rugby,  or  football?&quot;  &quot;Hasn't  Dr.  Spock  had  a  terribly  pernicious  influence  on  your  young  people?&quot;  &quot;What  are  the  speed  limits  on  your  roads?&quot;  &quot;Absolutely  monstrous  of  you  to  throw  out  your  President  like  that!&quot;  Daniel  boomed  during  the  fish  course.  &quot;You  elect  him  with  the  greatest  plu-  rality  in  your  history,  and  two  years  later  he's  the  first  one  whom  you  ever  turned  out  of  office.  What's  all  this  regicide,  this  hysteria?  One  of  our  great  world  leaders.  A  man  of  peace.  Look  at  what  he's  done  in  [REDACTED],  in  4368696e61,  in  the  Near  East.  You  have  no  sense  of  history.  Your  puritanical  non-  sense  about  corruption,  it's  so  naive.  What  do  you  think  politics  are  all  about?  Did  anyone  raise  an  eyebrow  when  Napoleon  pillaged  4974616c79?&quot;  He  washed  down  his  chicken  with  a  large  mouthful  of  Montrachet.  &quot;Did  any-  one  protest  when  Louis  XIII  had  his  opponents  jailed?  Moi  f'at  trouv\xc3\xa9  ga  formidable,  Watergate.  How  else  can  you  run  a  country?  In  deposing  Nixon  you're  thinking  of  yourselves,  not  of  world  order;  it's  very  selfish,.  Ce  mest  pas  chic,  ga.  ...&quot;  It  was  the  hottest  day  of  the  summer.  Some  twelve  of  us  were  crowded  into  the  tiny  dining  room  furnished  with  frayed,  weathered  Louis  XV  furniture  and  piles  of  sleeping  bags.  All  the  windows  were  tight-  ly  shut.  The  crucifix  hanging  over  the  door  to  the  kitchen  was  ornamented  with  dried  palm  and  bay  and  sur-  mounted  by  a  recep-  tacle  for  holy  water.  Everyone  except  me  had  gone  to  Mass  that  morning.  The  three  niecesI  had  acquired  at  lunch  that  day  were  large  and  pretty,  with  that  high-toned,  Irish-  like  complexion  typi-  cal  of  the  Vend\xc3\xa9e  and  Brittany.  The  pret-  tiest-one  of  Daniel's  daughters-wore  a  thin-strapped,  mini-  skirted  gingham  dress  that  looked  like  an  " b"elongated  bathing  suit.  &quot;You  should  have  put  something  on  top  of  that  d\xc3\xa9collet\xc3\xa9  for  lunch,&quot;her  father  grumbled.  &quot;Monsieur  le  Cur\xc3\xa9  almost  had  a  stroke  when  he  gave  you  Communion  this  morning.&quot;  &quot;Don't  worry,  Pa-  pa,&quot;  she  said  saucily,  putting  her  arms  over  her  large  and  beautiful  breasts.  &quot;I  crossed  my  hands  over  them  so  that  the  host  wouldn't  fall  in  between.&quot;  Her  father  guffawed.  What  an  unpredict-  able  lot,  I  thought,  I  rather  like  them  ...I  fancied  their  blend  of  conservatism  and  ec-  centricity,  their  bohe-  mianism,  their  extraor-  dinary  fear  of  fresh  air.  Halfway  through  coffee,  almost  fainting  from  the  heat,  I  plead-  ed  the  beauty  of  the  midday  light  on  the  castle's  facade,  and  went  out  to  take  a  photograph  and  breathe.  The  pretty  niece  followed  me.  &quot;Stop,  stop,  don't  take  it  yet!&quot;  she  cried  as  I  focussed  the  camera,.  &quot;There's  a  window  open  on  the  second  floor;  it  looks  so  awful!&quot;  She  ran  up  to  close  it  and  quick-  ly  ran  back.  &quot;Now  take  it,&quot;  she  or-  dered,  staring  beatifically  at  the  pale,  exquisitely  symmetrical  structure,  I  obeyed.  Click:  my  ancestors'  home.  With  all  its  windows  shut,  the  little  castle  glimpsed  through  its  alley  of  chestnut  trees  looked  as  impervious  to  the  flow  of  history  as  to  currents  of  air,  like  a  structure  out  of  a  Perrault  fairy  tale.  Papahad  spent  his  childhood  here,  and  had  helped  to  nurse  his  mother  through  a  lingering  cancer.  I  had  learned  that  detail  only  today.  The  Benjamin  of  the  lot,  he  was  nine  when  she  died,  the  same  age  I  was  at  his  death,  and  remained  alone  here  with  his  older  sister,  Colette,  while  his  fa-  ther  and  brothers  were  away  fight-  ing  the  First  World  War.  Had  those  years  of  sorrow  and  of  solitude  helped  shape  his  need  for  heroism,  forearly  death?  Here  we  had  slept  in  the  same  bed,  during  some  weeks  of  each  summer,  in  that  second-floor  room  that  I  refused  to  visit.  And,  five  years  before,  the  last  of  my  surviving  uncles  had  died  here,  sitting  quietly  in  his  armchair.  A  wave  of  sorrow  suddenly  filled  me  for  not  having  seen  him  one  last  time,  There  was  no  one  left  now  of  my  father's  generation  except  Aunt  Colette,  whom  I  was  to  visit  tomorrow.  Too  late;  always  too  late;  perhaps  not  always  totally  too  late.  ...  The  pretty  cousin  called  toa  bevy  of  her  contemporaries,  and  we  all  took  a  walk  in  the  park.  It  struck  me  that  there  was  literally  nothing  to  do  at  Saint-Seran  but  immerse  oneself  in  family  history  and  walk  through  for-  ests.  There  was  not  a  pond  or  river  to  bathe  in  or  a  movie  to  go  to.  No  horses,  no  tennis,  no  town  to  shop  in  within  a  half  hour's  driving  distance.  Nothing,  nothing,  nothing.  Nothing  but  &quot;Ja  promenade  dans  le  beau  parc.&quot;  And  here  were  these  hordes  of  young  persons  in  their  late  teens  and  early  twenties,  who  had  the  means  to  go  to  the  mountains  or  to  the  Cote  d'Azur,  but  who  preferred  to  lounge  about  this  sweet  dormant  structure,  with  nothing  else  to  do  but  study  Aunt  [REDACTED]'s  family  albums  and  paste  into  them  the  weddings  and  baptisms  ofthe  year,  or  walk  through  alleys  of  trees  comment-  ing  on  the  beauty  of  sunlight  as  it  hit  the  oaks,  a  stand  of  elms,  a  cluster  of  chestnuts,  a  grove  of  pines  or  poplars.  Occasionally,  when  filled  with  a  sense  of  adventure,  they  employed  them-  selves  by  cutting  down  some  brush  to  enlarge  the  park's  old  alleys,  or  began  the  grave  task  of  tracing  the  begin-  nings  of  a  new  one.  &quot;So  you  come  here  every  summer  for  your  vacation?&quot;  I  asked  the  pretty  cousin.  &quot;Of  course!&quot;  she  exclaimed,  as  if  I  were  mad  to  ask  such  a  question.  She  had  told  me  earlier  that  she  worked  as  a  bank  clerk  in  Brest,  and  had  five  brothers.  &quot;You  like  it  better  than  the  sea,  or  the  mountains?&quot;  &quot;We  come  here  to  recapture  our  childhoods,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Don't  you  like  to  recall  your  childhood?  Oh,  I  can't  tell  you  how  attached  we  all  are  to  this  place,  every  single  one  of  us.  Look,  it  is  so  pretty  from  here.  Why  don't  you  take  a  photo  now?&quot;  She  squinted  her  eyes  to  admire  the  silvery  structure,  whose  slate  roofs  sloped  gently  down  to  its  long,  narrow,  closed  windows.  His-  tory,  loyalty,  continuity.  The  aura  of  the  ancestral  dead.  If  there  was  an  oc-  casional  glance  of  defiance,  of  irritation  mixed  with  the  burning  curiosity  my  cousins  bestowed  upon  me,  it  was  because  I  was  the  only  descendant,  to  their  knowledge,  who  had  refused  to  continue  this  linkage.  I  had  attempt-  ed  to  scrub  myself  clean  of  family  memories,  andhad  tried  to  forge  a  false  innocence  by  shutting  myself  off  from  the  griefs  ofthe  past.  De-  stroy,  New  World  immigrant,  destroy,  destroy,  destroy.  Destroy  the  forest,  " b"destroy  the  past,  be  free  again  from  the  pain  of  history.  HERE  is  a  recurring  nightmare  that  has  haunted  me,  in  various  forms,  over  the  years  since  my  father  died.  I  dream  that  he  is  still  alive  some-  where,  and  hiding;  that  he  is  avoid-  ing  me;  that  he  has  just  reasserted  his  refusal  ever  to  communicate  with  me  again.  The  dream  recurred  that  very  night  in  the  hotel  room  I  had  taken  in  Nantes  before  I  knew  of  the  warm  welcome  that  would  be  offered  to  me  at  Saint-Seran.  I  dreamt  that  my  Aunt  Colette  and  I  wereon  a  plane  that  had  made  a  crash  landing.  We  were  not  hurt  but  seemed  to  be  the  only  survivors,  and  massive  debris  was  scattered  all  about  us.  We  received  a  message  that  my  father  was  alive  and  well  in  some  distant  country,  that  he  was  crippled  and  confined  to  a  wheelchair,  but  still  strong  and  mag-  nificent,  that  he  was  happily  married  to  a  much  younger  woman  and  ada-  mantly  refused  to  communicate  with  us.  &quot;Traitor!&quot;  Colette  and  I  screamed  together  upon  receiving  the  news.  &quot;Traitor!  Traitor!&quot;  On  the  morning  after  this  dream--  the  day  I  was  to  see  Aunt  Colette  again  for  the  first  time  in  twenty  years-I  took  a  long  walk  on  the  banks  of  the  Loire  to  shake  off  the  obsessionsof  the  night.  And  I  tried  to  remember  that  time  twenty-seven  years  ago,  two  years  after  the  war's  end,  when  I  re-  turned  to  Saint-Seran,  and,  finding  my  father's  absence  there  insupportable,  fled  after  twenty-four  hours.  Dur-  ing  my  wartime  years  in  the  United  [REDACTED],  I  had  romanticized  the  family  house-the  way  my  cousins  did  now-  as  a  place  unsurpassed  in  its  perfection.  And  as  soon  as  travelling  became  pos-  sible  I  had  rushed  there  alone.  I  was  fifteen,  childishly  unaware  of  my  rela-  tives'  suffering  or  of  the  toll  of  the  war.  The  pain  ofthe  visit  was  bound  to  be  augmented  by  the  fact  that  my  father's  death  had  been  hidden  from  me  for  a  long  time,  that  I  had  learned  about  it  accidentally  from  a  stranger,  that  I  doggedly  continued  to  believe  he  was  still  hiding  in  the  Resistance  long  after  I  had  learned  the  truth.  And  pain  still  reduces  my  memory  of  the  visit  to  images  of  catatonic  brevity.  Saint-Seran  is  a  crumbling  structure  set  in  a  monotonous  stretch  of  fields.  My  Uncle  Jean  is  thin.  My  Aunt  [REDACTED]  is  fat.  One  of  my  cousins  is  in  the  colonies.  Another  one  is  trying  to  leave  for  the  colonies.  A  third  is  thinking  of  entering  a  convent.  Nantes  is  one  of  the  French  towns  most  bru-  I1  tally  destroyed  in  the  Second  World  War.  Aunt  Colette  lives  in  one  pa-  thetic  room  overlooking  the  rubble  of  the  bombed-out  port.  We  sit  down  to  a  prisonlike  supper  of  watery  soup  in  which  float  stony  hunks  of  dry  bread.  The  next  morning,  I  am  taken  to  visit  the  place  where  my  father  will  be  buried  when  his  body  is  brought  home  from  Gibraltar.  The  cemetery  is  over-  grown  with  brush,  and  the  dank  family  chapel  is  filled  with  the  tombs  of  an-  cestors  whose  history  is  of  no  interest  to  me.  I  remember  little  but  the  high  grass,  the  dampness  of  the  chapel's  stone  walls,  my  dumb  pain  and  anger.  With  anger  I  stare  at  what  will  be  his  final  resting  place,  raging  at  him:  W  hy,  why  did  you  abandon  me?  But  he  is  not  even  there,  The  absence  of  his  body  is  like  a  second  treason,  further  augmenting  the  treason  that  was  his  death.  I  insisted  on  taking  the  next  train  back  to  [REDACTED]  and  wept  for  days,  refusing  to  eat,  unable  to  stop  crying,  not  knowing  precisely  why  I  was  crying-a  minor  breakdown,  perhaps.  When  I  came  to  live  in  [REDACTED]  eight  years  later,  I  elaborately  steered  clear  of  any  contact  with  my  father's  im-  mediate  family.  Eventually,  I  ran  into  Aunt  Colette,  the  adored  older  sister  who  had  been  a  mother  to  him,  and  who  had  also  been  one  ofthe  idols  of  my  own  childhood.  I  met  her  by  acci-  dent,  at  the  home  of  distant  cousins.  Since  it  was  her  only  trip  to  [REDACTED]  since  1947,  when  she  had  come  to  receive  the  Legion  of  Honor  for  her  work  in  the  Resistance,  she  had  probably  come  totry  and  see  me.  She  was  very  poor.  The  trip  was  difficult  for  her.  Her  eyes  devoured  me  from  acrossthe  room.  I  did  not  have  the  honesty  or  kind-  ness  to  return  her  gaze.  I  was  ter-  rified  of  this  proud,  gentle  woman  who  had  worn  mourning  since  my  father's  death,  who  was  my  last  link  to  my  childhood.  &quot;It  would  be  so  nice  to  see  you,  even  here,&quot;  she  said,  intimating  that  she  would  prolong  her  stay  in  [REDACTED]  if  I  could  grant  her  a  few  hours.  But  I  lied  and  said  that  I  was  going  away  that  same  evening  to  4974616c79.  Those  were  years  when  I  could  not  bear  to  hear  the  mention  of  my  fa-  ther's  name.  And  I  had  rejected  her  as  crassly  as  I  had  avoided  the  rest  of  his  family-more  crassly,  since  she  was  so  totally  alone  in  the  world;  since,  along  with  me,  she  had  mourned  him  more  deeply  than  any  of  the  others.  Walking  through  Nantes  toward  Aunt  Colette's  apartment  on  that  sum-  mer  morning  in  1974.  Past  the  great  castle  of  Anne  of  Brittany,  where  white  swans  glide  tranquilly  in  deep,  lily-filled  moats.  Past  the  monument  to  " b"Jules  Verne,  born  in  this  city.  Past  the  fac-  tory  that  manufactures  the  nice  biscuits  Petit  Beurre  Lu,  Lustucru.  The  city  is  bathed  in  the  silvery  light  of  the  upper  Atlantic  coast.  We  are  in  Gaelic,  Celt-  ic  country  here;  the  light  is  like  the  gleam  on  a  pear.  Past  the  docks  famous  for  the  drownings  of  the  Rev-  olution,  when,  the  guil-  lotine  having  proved  too  slow,  several  thou-  sand  Royalists  were  marched  into  boats  and  the  boats  sunk  in  the  River  Loire.  Past  the  house  where  Aunt  Co-  lette  and  my  father  were  born.  My  grand-  mother  was  a  great  beauty,  and  she  painted  with  talent;  my  grand-  father  died  of  typhoid  in  the  First  World  War.  I  am  forty-three  and  learned  these  facts  only  yesterday.  I  sud-  denly  need  to  see  and  own  a  picture  of  them.  Very  well,  all's  easy  now;  I'l  ask  Aunt  Colette.  A  student  in  peasant  costume  hands  me  a  pamphlet  on  the  Breton  Libera-  tion  Front.  Another  Breton  liberation-  ist,  in  bluejeans  and  incongruously  for-  mal  white  lace  headdress,  hands  me  an  anti-abortion  pamphlet  in  Gaelic.  Three  hippies  with  long  blond  hair  sit  on  the  sidewalk  in  the  morning  sunshine,  washing  their  feet  in  the  gutter,  as  they  would  on  a  summer  day  in  any  town  in  Europe.  Dien  Bien  Phu,  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED]  have  come  and  gone,  and  the  dead  have  come  to  their  final  resting  place,  and  I  am  walking  down  a  street  called  Cours  John  Kennedy.  Some  new  courage  buttresses  me  this  morn-  ing,  making  all  kinds  of  new  emotions  and  meetings  possible.  I  come  to  the  address  Aunt  Colette  gave  me  over  the  telephone-to  the  door  of  a  ground-  floor  apartment  in  a  pale  seventeenth,  century  buildinga  block  from  the  ca-  thedral.  An  extraordinary  face  stares  at  me  through  the  window.  A  delicate  face,  as  fragile  and  carefully  painted  as  a  moth's,  ruled  by  enormous  and  melan-  choly  brown  eyes.  All  over  the  moth's  face  furry  tufts  of  silvery  hair  grow  in  mad,  erraticspurts,  as  they  might  on  some  wood  sprite,  on  acreature  half  human,  half  tree.  I  so  clearly  have  my  father's  and  Aunt  Colette's  eyes-iron-  ic,  sad,  gay  eyes  with  deeply  chiselled  lids-that  this  is  how  one  of  my  cous-  ins  had  found  me  at  the  airport.  She  walked  up  to  me,  extending  her  hand,  and  said,  &quot;You  have  Aunt  Colette's  gaze.&quot;  The  moth's  face  leaves  the  window,  and  a  few  seconds  later  a  crea-  ture  weighing  some  seventy  pounds,  with  the  frail,  erect,  boyish  body  of  an  aging  ballerina,  opens  the  door.  She  is  eighty  years  old.  She  falls  into  my  arms,  her  body  shaking,  her  face  quivering,  yet  some  visible  stoicism  keeps  her  eyes  quite  dry.  &quot;Here  you  are  at  last,&quot;  she  says  during  our  long  embrace.  I  am  shaking,  too.  &quot;Forgive  me,&quot;  I  want  to  cry.  &quot;Forgive  me  for  my  lies  and  my  evasions.&quot;  But  I  know  that  I  could  never  use  such  terms  with  her;  that  this  frail,  subtle,  solid  woman  prefers  not  to  resort  to  words;  that  ev-  erything  between  us  would  be  com-  municated  asin  a  choreography  of  insects.  Very  soon  thereafter,  we  sit  down  to  lunch.  One  must  always  eat.  Among  the  decorous,  the  diffident  French,  much  pain  and  joy  is  punctuated  by  ap-  propriate  mundanities  throughout  the  solemnity  of  a  five-course  meal.  &quot;Did  you  do  your  studies  in  British  or  in  556e6974656420537461746573n?&quot;  she  asks,  our  eyes  meeting  across  the  table  laden  with  fragile  Saint-Seran  china.  &quot;Do  you  eat  much  bread  in  [REDACTED]\xc2\xae  What  color  is  the  bread?  Do  you  have  les  Trot  skystes  in  [REDACTED]\xc2\xae  How  many  of  them  do  you  have?  They  are  respon-  sible  for  many  of  our  troubles  here.  Weren't  they  responsible  for  your  black  uprisings  in  the  sixties?  What  do  you  think  ofthe  Pope?  I  hope  you  do  not  receive  dissident  priests  for  tea-it  has  become  much  the  fashion  here.  Have  you  reread  Sainte-Beuve  lately?  Don't  you  agree  with  him  that  the  progress  of  civilization  is  accompanied  by  a  ter-  rible  degeneration  of  morals  in  man-  kind?  Is  your  stepfather  Catholic?  ..  Oh,  he  is  Jewish.  Ah,  well,  the  Pope  has  forgiven  them.  .  ..&quot;  In  this  willfully  remote  province,  reality  seems  to  filter  through  prisms  that  block  out  many  aspects  of  modern  civilization  yet  enlarge  others  into  ob-  sessive  proportions-  T  rotskyites,  speed  limits,  the  color  of  bread.  Aunt  Co-  lette's  voice  is  aslight  and  striking  as  " b"her  person,  thin  but  powerful,  with  a  silvery  tint  to  it  recalling  the  light  that  bathes  her  city,  often  breaking  into  pealing,  boyish  laughs.  She  retired  fif-  teen  years  ago  from  her  work  as  a  librarian,  and  lives  in  a  modest  but  dainty  three-room  flat  filled  with  rem-  nants  from  Saint-Seran  as  frail  as  her  body:  odd  teacups,  residues  of  Sevres  porcelain,  miniatures  of  ancestors  on  fragile  Louis  XVI  tables,  spindly  chairs  that  are  covered  in  worn  petit-point  rose  patterns  and  that  seem  as  if  they  could  support  no  more  than  her  weight.  Even  the  crucifix  hanging  on  the  wall  by  the  inevitable  photograph  of  de  Gaulle  is  spindly  and  ethere-  al.  She  shares  her  flat  with  a  childhood  friend,  who  also  never  married,  and  by  pool-  ing  their  resources  they  have  some-  how  contrived  much  comfort  out  of  their  postwar  poverty.  And  I  rejoice  in  Aunt  Colette's  ease  and  her  lack  of  solitude,  as  if  these  amenities-those  of  her  own  resourcefulness-could  re-  duce  my  guilt.  I  protest,  in  mid-meal,  that  one  could  eat  the  vegetables  with  the  meat  instead  of  separately-wouldn't  it  make  her  dishwashing  easier?  &quot;And  eat  like  the  Germans,&quot;  she  ex-  claims,  &quot;who  heap  meat  and  potatoes  and  vegetables  on  the  same  plate?  The  most  disgusting  custom  I  know.  Why  even  when  we  go  on  picnics  in  the  forest  we  bring  at  least  four  changes  of  china.  .  .  .&quot;  She  plays  bridge  at  least  four  after-  noons  a  week,  she  tells  me,  being,  like  most  members  of  our  family,  &quot;of  a  nature  driven  to  excess.&quot;  She  frequently  entertains  groups  of  ten  friends  in  her  flat  for  two-table  bridge  parties,  and,  since  they  are  all  quite  old,  there  are  al-  ways  two  players  dropping  out  and  nap-  ping  in  the  other  room,  resting  up  for  their  turn  to  play.  She  goes  every  Au-  gust  to  the  island  of  Ol\xc3\xa9ron,  with  a  few  friends  her  age.  Over  the  years,  they  have  settled  on  a  particular  hotel  for  its  proximity  to  beautiful  trees  and  also  to  a  church  where  they  can  go  to  Mass  every  morning.  &quot;I  adore  forests,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;The  joy  of  my  life  is  to  walk  in  lovely  parks  like  that  of  Saint-Seran  or  Ol\xc3\xa9ron,  and  observe  the  play  of  sunlight  on  different  kinds  of  trees.  In  Ol\xc3\xa9ron,  we  carry  a  folding  card  table  into  the  forest  and  spend  the  afternoon  playing  our  bridge  match  there,  enjoying  the  afternoon  sunlight  on  the  leaves.  Tell  me,  do  you  have  insomnia?&quot;  I  confess  that  Ido.  That  I  have  had  it  ever  since  a  certain  period  of  the  Second  World  War.     &quot;Bravo,  then  you're  really  one  of  us!&quot;  she  exclaims,  acknowledging  the  reference  to  my  father's  death  with  a  wise,  sad  look  but  preferring  not  to  dwell  upon  it.  For  she,  who  knows  more  about  him  than  anyone  else,  never  offers  any  detail  more  revealing  than  &quot;He  hated  his  braces  as  a  child,&quot;  or  &quot;He  passed  his  exams  marvellously.&quot;  She  adds  now,  &quot;You  might  even  have  had  insomnia  without  the  war.  It's  a  trait  from  the  Lamorici\xc3\xa9re  side  which  plagues  most  of  us.  For  instance,  your  grandfather,  a  colonel  in  the  professional  army,  read  and  reread  Taine  through  the  night,  whether  he  was  sta-  tioned  in  Annecy  or  in  Al-  geria,  Your  Uncle  Jean,  at  Saint-Seran,  used  to  read  Michelet  from  2  to  6  A.m.  and  sleep  guiltily  till  ten.  Your  Uncle  Charles  de  La  Fougeraie  managed  to  sleep  three  or  four  hours  a  night,  pro-  vided  that  he  hunted  eight  hours  a  day;  so  he  lunched  at  ten  in  the  morn-  ing  and  dined  at  four  in  the  evening  in  order  to  hunt  all  dayand  sleep  a  little.  As  for  my  white  nights,  I  reread  de  Gaulle's  memoirs.  .  ..&quot;  &quot;Why  this  anxiety?&quot;  I  ask.  &quot;Are  we  romantics?&quot;  Shenods  her  head  emphatically  with  an  ironic  smile,  &quot;Oh  yes,  indeed,  we've  always  been  romantics!&quot;  &quot;In  what  sense?&quot;  &quot;We're  concerned  with  heroism,&quot;  she  ventures  slowly,  &quot;and  the  future  of  our  actions,  and  how  they  relate  to  the  past.  Oh  ...  have  you  been  there  yet?  No?  You  are  going  tomorrow,  with  your  cousin  Catherine?  Very  well.  Did  you  like  de  Gaulle?&quot;  she  asks  hur-  riedly,  as  if  to  get  ourselves  back  on  safer  ground.  &quot;A  great  man,&quot;  I  answer  care-  fully.  &quot;Perhaps  a  little  astigmatic,  more  skilled  at  seeing  long-range  conse-  quences  than  immediate  ones.&quot;  &quot;But  you  do  think  he  was  great?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  yes.&quot;  &quot;Thank  God,&quot;  she  says  simply.  &quot;All  these  modern  trends-I  just  don't  know  about  them,.  These  Presidents  of  the  Republic  whose  wivesallow  them-  selves  to  be  photographed  in  bathing  suits.  ..  .  These  birth-control  pills  hand-  ed  out  by  the  state  to  anyone.  ..  .  These  Fourteenth  of  July  parades  switched  to  dreadful  districts  where  all  those  hooli-  gans  salute  you  with  clenched  fists.&quot;  She  had  noticed,  beforelunch,  that  I  looked  longingly  at  a  photograph  of  my  father  on  her  bedside  table.  And  after  taking  a  brief  nap  to  rest  for  the  after-  noon  excursion  we  have  planned,  she  comes  out  of  her  bedroom  swiftly,  and  hands  me  an  envelope.  She  gives  it  to  me  between  one  room  and  another,  with  an  air  of  contraband,  and  one  of  those  infinitely  sad,  wise  looks  of  hers.  Our  sorrows  flutter,  hover  about  each  other  like  languorous  moths.  We  look  at  each  other  with  that  melancholy,  ironic  gaze  that  belongs  to  her,  to  him,  to  me.  We  link  arms  and  start  on  our  walk,  We  stroll  in  the  botanical  gardens,  and  admire  the  effets  de  lumi\xc3\xa9re  on  its  elms  and  oaks.  She  wears  a  gown  of  watered  silk,  a  sweater  reaching  halfway  to  her  knees,  long  pearls.  Her  legs  are  like  matchsticks,  her  nails  are  painted  the  color  of  fading  tea  roses.  She  helps  me  to  feed  the  swans  in  the  moated  castle  of  Anne  of  Brittany,  as  she  did  when  I  was  a  child.  I  take  her  pho-  tograph  on  thecathedral  steps  as  she  clutches  her  extraordinary  flowered  hat  in  agust  of  wind,  saying  proudly,  &quot;We  have  the  highest  nave  of  any  church  after  Beauvais.&quot;  At  day's  end,  we  drive  to  visit  distant  cousins  of  hers  and  mine  whom  even  Colette  refers  toas  &quot;the  guardians  of  the  past.&quot;  They  have  lived  totally  alone  since  the  end  of  the  First  World  War-when  both  their  parents  died-in  a  magnificent  Louis  XIII  castle,  to  the  preservation  of  which  they  have  dedicated  their  lives.  Smell  of  damp  wood,  splendor  of  moldings  not  painted  since  the  war  of  1870,  resplendent  al-  leysin  a  park  designed  by  Leniotre.  One  cousin  is  seventy,  the  other  is  eighty.  Bentand  elflike  and  totally  eccentric,  too  poor  to  employ  a  servant,  they  live  and  cook,  each  one  for  herself,  on  different  floors  of  the  greathouse,  keep  different  hours  and  pursue  totally  different  styles  of  life.  One  cultivates  the  flower  garden  and  sweeps  the  castle's  thirty-six  uninhabited  rooms;  the  other  spends  her  day  doing  the  heavy  outdoor  work,  maintaining  Le-  notre's  alleys  with  a  John  Deere  gar-  den  tractor.  They  have  not  been  to  Nantes  in  three  or  four  years.  It  is  a  twenty-minute  ride  away.  Left  to  ourselves  while  they  are  making  tea,  Aunt  Colette  and  I  wan-  der  into  the  grand  salon,  which  is  hung  with  pictures  of  great  dead  Frenchmen.  &quot;Ah,  look,  there's  de  Gaulle,&quot;  Aunt  Colette  exclaims  as  she  advances  slowly,  unfolding  her  lorgnette.  &quot;No,  Aunt  Colette,  it's  P\xc3\xa9tain,&quot;'  I  correct  her.  &quot;Merde  alors,&quot;  she  exclaims.  &quot;I  must  admit  that  I  haven't  been  in  this  room  for  years  and  that  I've  never  men-  tioned  de  Gaulle's  name  to  them.  They  might  think  I'm  a  Communist.&quot;  Aft-  er  tea,  we  stroll  out  into  the  park  and  walk  in  the  alleys  designed  by  Leniotre.  &quot;Look,  what  an  exquisite  oak  of  the  species  Quercus  virginiana,&quot;  Aunt  Co-  " b"lette  murmurs.  &quot;And  what  a  noble  elm,  of  the  Ulmus  procera  species.&quot;  Our  seventy-year-old  relative  rides  past  us  on  her  tractor,  dressed  in  boots  and  an-  cient  riding  jodhpurs,  a  khaki  army  hat  set  cockily  on  her  head.  &quot;What  dedica-  tion,  what  sacrifice,&quot;  Aunt  Colette  says.  &quot;This  house  is  their  child,  their  martyr-  dom,  their  immortality.  Perhaps  that's  why  we're  such  insomniacs  in  the  fam-  ily.  We're  romantic  enough  to  dedicate  our  lives  to  any  cause  we  believe  in,  however  small  or  great.  .  ..&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cDO  you  believe  in  grace?&quot;  my  cousin  Catherine  asked  me  as  we  drove  through  the  flat  countryside  outside  Nantes  in  the  direction  of  the  family  chapel,  where  my  father  is  buried.  It  was  her  way  of  being  matter-  of-fact,  I  suppose,  of  diverting  my  thoughts  from  the  trouble  that  might  lie  ahead.  She  was  a  singular  woman,  this  husky,  serious  cousin  who  had  un-  dertaken  to  accompany  me  on  my  first  visit  to  my  father's  grave:  tall,  power-  ful,  with  short  gray  hair  brushed  back  in  mannish  fashion  and  steel-rimmed  glasses  framing  our  family's  melancholy,  straightforward  brown  eyes.  She  was  the  cousin  who  had  met  me  at  the  airport,  and  I  had  im-  mediately  sensed  that,  as  the  only  spinster  of  her  generation,  she  assigned  herself  the  more  disagreeable  and  awesome  family  tasks:  cooking  and  keeping  house  for  her  aging  mother,  meeting  stran-  gers  at  airports,  ac-  companying  them  on  delicate  missions  such  as  this  one.  As  if  it  were  her  way  of  pun-  ishing  herself,  within  this  family  hell-bent  on  procreation,  for  failing  to  reproduce  God's  image.  She  was  a  government  social  worker,  with  a  fairly  hlgh-placed  job  in  the  federal  system  which  entailed  attending  a  monthly  meeting  in  [REDACTED].  And  she  was  ut-  terly  consumed  by  her  duty  toward  others.  She  lived  in  Nantes,  in  a  two-room  flat,  with-  out  a  telephone.  Any-  one  attempting  to  find  her  there  in  the  evening     would  learn  from  the  concierge  that  insteadof  going  home  to  puther  feet  up  and  do  her  laundry,  as  she  constant-  ly  announced  she  was  about  to  do,  she  had  gone  to  check  on  some  be-  reaved  family  in  the  suburbs,  or  rushed  to  Saint-Seran  to  make  sure  that  her  mother's  dinner  was  properly  taken  care  of.  Her  manner  had  that  balance  that  characterizes  the  finest  members  of  her  profession-those  equipped  with  enough  diplomacy  and  toughness  to  deal  adequately  with  drunks,  drug  ad-  dicts,  the  orphaned,  the  handicapped.  And  she  had  asked  me,  in  that  divert-  ing  tone  appropriate  to  the  day's  excur-  sion,  whether  I  believed  in  grace,  &quot;I'm  not  sure  that  we  would  see  eye  to  eye  on  that,&quot;  I  said.  I  was  trying  to  avoid  the  severe  cultural  shock  that  some  of  my  answers  had  evoked  among  my  relatives.  &quot;I  mean,  I've  quite  lost  my  faith  in  Christ  as  the  exclusive  ve-  hicle  of  salvation.  I  think  grace  can  be  attained  through  the  visions  of  many  other  great  religions,  and  also  outside  of  them.&quot;  My  answerseemed  startling  and novel  to  her  but  not  shocking.  &quot;Ah,  how  interesting,&quot;  she  exclaimed.  &quot;You  do  not  believe  in  Christ  as  the  hinge,  the  joint,  that  relates  God  to  man?  You  think  one  can  reachgrace  through  Buddha,  or  the  Hindu  deities,  or  some  curious  Muslim  sect?&quot;  &quot;And  why  not  without  them,  since  they  all  stress  that  He  is  in  us  already?  I  think  there  are  many  persons  un-  taught  in  any  religion  who  have  grace  because  they  are  able  to  live  totally  for  the  other.&quot;  &quot;'Total  sacrifice  for  the  other,  cer-  tainly,  as  you  find  in  all  our  saints,&quot;  she  agreed.  &quot;But  how  would  you  recognize  a  state  of  grace  among  the  unbap-  tized?&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Well,  their  sainthood  might  remain  quite  obscure,  totally  unrecognized.  I  can't  think  of  any  surer  sign  than  their  willingness  to  risk  going  into  death  for  others.  And  I'm  not  sure  that  such  grace  can  be  reached  without  the  most  scrupulous  self-knowledge,  and  itis  this  knowledge,  this  total  givingness,  that  is  ofthe  essence,  not  the  contact  with  any  religious  system.&quot;  She  was  " b"frowning.  &quot;Look  at  all  the  lies  we  invent  to  protect  our  self-esteem  and  self-respect,&quot;  I  continued.  &quot;Like  our  unwillingness  to  face  the  reality  of  death,  our  arrogance  in  thinking  that  we  are  godlike  and  immortal.&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  mean,  'thinking  that  we  are  immortal&quot;?  We  are  all  im-  mortal!  I  am  immortal!  You  are  im-  mortal!  That  is  precisely  how  we  dif-  fer  from  animals!  What  does  our  catechism  say?  'Because  I  have  an  immortal  soul!'&quot;  (&quot;Really,&quot;  her  eyes  were  saying  to  me,  &quot;you  go  too  far.&quot;)  &quot;Well,  perhaps  our  beliefs  are  more  similar  than  you  think,  and  we  just  phrase  them  differently.  I'd  say  that  we  differ  from  animals  by  our  aware-  ness  of  death,  and  that  this  awareness  of  death  might  be  the  sign  of  our  po-  tential  for  some  form  of  immortality,  a  manifestation  of  some  kind  of  im-  mortal  world  soul.&quot;  Stopping  at  a  red  light,  and  still  frowning,  she  offered  me  a  package  of  licorice-and-mint  candy  drops,  which  shekept  in  a  pouch  in  her  car-along  with  comic  books  and  a  manual  of  self-  defense-for  the  adolescents  she  had  to  transport  back  and  forth  to  the  re-  habilitation  home.  &quot;To  get  back  to  grace,&quot;  I  con-  tinued,  &quot;there  is  a  very  great  Swedish  film  in  which  the  heroine  is  a  humble  servant  girl.  She  is  so  totally  acquainted  with  the  reality  of  death,  so  devoid  of  illusions,  so  completely  willing  to  cross  into  death  for  the  sake  of  another  hu-  man  being  that  she  is  a  perfect  exam-  ple  of  a  state  of  true  grace.  Do  you  get  to  see  any  Ingmar  Bergman  films  in  Nantes?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  we  get  very  few  foreign  films,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;As  a  matter  of  fact,  we  get  very  few  ideas  of  any  kind  from  the  exterior.  W  hile  you  in  [REDACTED],  on  the  contrary,  must  be  swamped,  in-  undated,  by  a  profusion  of  constantly  fresh  and  novel  ideas.  How  curious  that  must  feel!&quot;  She  ran  her  large  hand  through  her  stubby  hair  with  a  gesture  that  com-  municated  impatience,  some  envy.  &quot;Doesn't  this  profusion  of  new  ideas,  this  perennial  invasion,  some-  times  make  you  feel...  out  of  bal-  ance?  To  be  perpetually  bombarded  by  such  a  stream  of  novelty?&quot;  &quot;Yes.  It's  a  country  where  it's  sometimes  hard  to  keep  track  of  reali-  ty.  Everything  flows  by  usso  very  swiftly-fads,  allegiances.  Your  broth-  er  Daniel  loves  to  attack  me  for  our  lack  of  any  sense  of  history.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  know  that  in  theten  years  I  have  had  to  make  monthly  trips  to  [REDACTED]  I  have  only  spent  the  night  there  once?  Even  though  it's  four  hours  by  train.  My  sister  Louise  offered  me  a  ticket  for  a  performance  ofSaint  Matthew  Passion  in  [REDACTED].  And  I  felt  so  guilty  for  having  allowed  my-  self  this  luxury  that  I  took  the  6  a.m.  train  back  to  Nantes,  and  then  I  worked  for  twenty-four  hours  round  the  clock.&quot;  I  stared  at  her  with  the  same  in-  tense  curiosity  with  which  my  cousins  often  stared  at  me.  &quot;You  see,  dar-  ling,&quot;  Aunt  Colette  had  said,  &quot;we  are  all  so  nutty,  so  excessive  ...&quot;  &quot;Go  on,  talk  some  more,&quot;  Cath-  erine  said.  &quot;You're  like  a  breath  of  fresh  air.  Tell  me  how  you  really  feel  about  this  place,  why  you  finally  came  back  when  you  did.&quot;  We  would  be  arriving  at  the  chapel  soon.  The  ancient  fear  gripped  me.  I  sensed  that  I  could  talkfreely  to  her.  &quot;Well,  I'll  tell  you.  I've  been  terri-  fied  of  this  visit  to  Papa's  grave.  It's  as  if  .  ..  well  ...as  if  he  could  drag  me  down  withhim.  As  if  he  had  the  pow-  er  to  force  me  to  join  him  in  death.  And  so  I  was  too  much  of  a  coward  and  a  louse,  too  small  and  ungenerous,  to  honor  his  memory.  It's  as  if-to  get  back  to  what  we  were  saying  a  minute  ago-as  if  I  dared  to  think  I  could  never  be  touched  by  death,  and  refused  to  acknowledge  any  aspect  of  it.  And  I  was  equally  fearful  of  some  ill  will  on  the  part  of  the  family  here,  fearful  that  they  might  bear  me  a  grudge  for  never  coming  back.  And  every  year  it  grew  worse;  every  year  I  feared  it     more.  That  part  of  it  was  silly-you've  been  so  marvellous  to  me.&quot;  She  gave  me  a  proud,  pleased  grin.  &quot;Perhaps  we're  more  understanding  than  you  thought  we'd  be.  Not  neces-  sarily  about  Buddhism  or  foreign  films  but  about  things  like  pain  and  death  and  a  child's  emotions  toward  them.  Do  you  know,  I  understand  your  fears  totally.  Someone  once  wrote-Mau-  riac,  perhaps-that  upon  the  death  of  a  parent  a  child  is  like  a  reed  bent  by  a  heavy  storm.  He  may  straighten  up  in  time,  or  he  may  not.  He  may  have  to  live  perpetually  in  a  stooped  position,  in  a  condition  of  enfeeblement.  Also,  it  is  quite  clear  what  happened  in  your  par-  ticular  instance-a  child  who  is  not  properly  acquainted  with  the  facts  of  a  parent's  death  may  suffer  from  power-  ful  delusions,  complex  feelings  of  guilt.  One,  you  are  guilty  because  you  did  not  join  him  in  death.  Two,  you  are  guilty  because  somehow  in  some  vague  sense  you  feel  responsible  for  his  death.  And  because  you  were  not  given  the  chance  of  going  through  the  proper  rituals  of  mourning-these  things  exist  for  the  sanity  of  the  survivor,  you  know-you  may  still  be  unable  to  believe  that  he  is  dead.&quot;  Her  conciseness  stunned  me.  Car-  tesian  clarity,  one,  two,  three,  like  a  prize-winning  bechot  essay.  And  so  much  briefer,  clearer,  cheaper  than  analysis.  I  could  not  speak.  &quot;What  about  life  after  death?&quot;  she  asked  in  the  same  conversational  tone  with  which  she  had  ventured  into  grace.  &quot;Or  the  resurrection  of  the  body-things  like  that?  In  a  system  of  thought  as  evolved  as  yours,  what  would  you  have  to  say?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  don't  have  any  great  prob-  lems  with  that.  I  like  many  mysteries.  It's  the  transfigured  body,  after  all.  Remember  how  in  catechism,  when  we  used  to  ask,  'What  is  the  transfigured  body,&quot;  they'd  answer,  'Ah,  my  child,  that  is  a  mystery.&quot;  I  don't  admire  the  notion  because  the  Church  teaches  it  but  because  it's  such  a  brilliant  histori-  cal  solution;  after  all  those  centuries  of  " b" pre-Christian  quibbling  about  body  versus  soul,  they  had  the  genius  to  come  along  and  say,  'You  can  take  your  body,  too.&quot;  Anyway,  there  might  well  bea  residuum  of  self  that  is  not  reducible  to  material  quantities,  the  nature  of  which  science  may  never  be  able  to  decipher.  And  if  so,  why  not  a  continuity,  or  even  a  resurrection,  of  this  selfhood?&quot;  &quot;Well,  speaking  of  that,  here  we  are,&quot;  she  said,  putting  on  her  wide,  comforting,  social  worker's  smile.  &quot;Here's  the  town  where  they're  all  buried.&quot;  It  had  come  sooner  than  I  had  thought,  a  bare  half  hour  from  Nantes  and  Saint-Seran.  I  felt  akind  of  numb-  ness.  That  blunt  wisdom  of  Catherine's  had  made  everything  much  easier  than  I  had  expected.  &quot;Look,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;I  might  break  down,  all  right?  I  just  don't  know  yet.  I  hope  you'll  understand.&quot;  She  made  a  casual  gesture  of  dis-  missal,  as  if  tosay,  &quot;If  you  only  knew  the  real  breakdowns  Isee  every  day.&quot;  MY  great-great-granduncle  Gen-  eral  Christophe  Louis  L\xc3\xa9on  Juchault  de  Lamorici\xc2\xa2\xc3\xa9re,  who  helped  complete  [REDACTED]'s  conquest  of  [REDACTED]  and  briefly  served  as  its  governor,  is  so  revered  in  his  native  Vend\xc3\xa9e  that  no  one  is  quite  sure  which  part  of  him  is  buried  where.  His  heart-that  much  is  certain-is  preserved  within  a  gi-  gantic  black  marble  cenotaph  in  the  north  nave  of  the  Nantes  cathedral.  It  is  said  that,  at  the  insistence  of  the  very  first  colons,  another  parcel  of  his  mortal  body  was  buried  in  [REDACTED].  Some  of  my  aunts  insist  that  still  an-  other  slice  of  the  General  reposes  in  a  [REDACTED]  church.  But  whatever  re-  mained  of  him  after  these  cannibalistic  acts  of  veneration  is  buried  in  his  na-  tive  village  of  Saint  Philbert  de  Grand-  lieu,  several  miles  from  Saint-Seran,  in  a  family  chapel  built  by  the  General's  sisters.  It  was  here  that  my  father  came  to  rest,  twenty-four  years  ago.  As  one  drives  into  Saint  Philbert,  the  General's  connection  with  that  town  is  announced  by  a  twelve-foot  bronze  statue  that  shows  him  striding  into  battle,  his  bearded  intense  face-  not  unlike  Lenin's-surmounted  by  a  towering  kepi,  his  long  sword  held  high  to  the  sky  as  if  giving  the  signal  of  attack.  Below  him,  a  Zouave  soldier  in  native  robes  blows  his  war  trumpet.  At  the  General's  feet  sits  Marianne,  symbol  of  French  glory  and  justice,  naked  to  the  waist,  her  large  and  per-  fect  breasts  surmounting  the  noble  flow  of  classical  draperies  below.  And  to  the  left  of  Marianne,  an  Arab  wom-  an  kneels  in  tribute,  offering  her  a  large  basket  of  native  fruit  and  flow-  ers-the  fruits  of  the  416c6765726961n  colonies  for  [REDACTED].  The  family's  burial  chapel  stands  two  blocks  from  this  martial  statue,  in  a  village  cemetery  dotted  with  marble  or  stone  crosses  of  varying  degrees  of  grandeur  and  with  purple  and  crimson  ceramic  flowers.  It  is  this  site,  this  building,  which  I  had  been  trying  to  avoid  for  over  thirty  years.  As  I  walked  into  the  chapel  that  day  with  Catherine,  I  experienced  the  same  anger  that  had  swept  over  me  three  decades  ago.  For  I  was  looking  for-  ward  to  a  physical  sign  of  my  father's  death;  I  wanted  a  tomb,  an  indenta-  tion  in  the  earth,  a  sarcophagus,  a  glimpse  of  his  coffin  even-something  real,  something  tangible,  something  that  would  knock  me  over  the  head  with  the  reality  of  his  death.  The  chapel  offered  none  of  that.  It  was  simply  a  sea  of  names,  engraved  from  the  top  to  the  bottom  of  each  wall,  gold  letters  on  black  marble  slabs,  and  the  dead  were  buried  below  or  around  it-I  did  not  know  which,  at  first.  Since  my  last  visit,  my  father's  name  had  been  added  to  the  left  wall,  near  the  en-  trance,  underneath  those  of  his  parents.  First  came  my  grandfather's  name:  &quot;Mort  pour  la  [REDACTED],  1918.&quot;  And  then  my  father's:  &quot;Mort  pour  le  [REDACTED],  1940.&quot;  &quot;So  here  we  are,&quot;  Catherine  said  cheerfully.  &quot;Would  you  like  to  be  alone?&quot;  &quot;No,  no,  no,  no.&quot;  And  I  wandered  about  the  chapel  with  the  casual  air  of  a  museum  visitor,  whispering  the  mu-  sical  names  of  ancestors  commemo-  rated  on  its  walls:  &quot;Marie-Laure  de  Hauterive  .  ..  Clotilde  du  Maistre  ...  Ah,  yes,  Anne-Marie  de  La  Lau-  rencie  ...&quot;  Would  there  never  be  an  end  to  my  cycle  of  anger,  delusion,  anger?  He  simply  might  not  be  here.  He  might  not  be  anywhere.  He  might  have  abandoned  me  even  more  totally  than  I  had  thought.  What  a  cheat  life  is,  to  always  be  deceiving  me  that  way.  I  would  go,  I  must  go  to  whatever  place  his  body  really  lies  in,  to  make  absolutely  sure,  to  see  the  coffin  bear-  ing  his  name.  I  wanted  to  break  down  in  the  presence  of  his  corpse,  to  affirm  the  reality  of  my  grief,  to  confirm  my  sorrow  to  him  and  to  myself,  and  here  there  was  nothing  but  names,  a  sea  of  names.  There  was  no  one  to  cry  to,  no  one  to  talk  to,  and  inside  me  there  was  an  anger  that  verged  on  boredom,  on  void.  &quot;So,&quot;  I  asked  Catherine,  &quot;where  are  they?&quot;  &quot;Below,  naturally.  Actually,  if  I  re-  member  accurately,  your  father  is  al-  most  underneath  and  to  the  right  of  the  sealing  stone,  just  a  few  coffins  away  from  the  General.  As  for  Papa-  he  is  to  the  left,  and  his  mother  is  directly  above  them.  Over  toward  the  apse,  you  have  the  Montmorencys,&quot;  she  continued,  as  if  seating  a  dinner  party,  &quot;the  du  Maistres,  the  Saint  Marceaux-the  branches  of  the  family  that  have  become  a  little  more  distant.  You're  sure  you  don't  want  to  be  alone?&quot;  No,  please  stay.  What  does  it  look  like  below?  How  are  they  buried?&quot;  &quot;It's  not  unlike  the  ...you  know,  the  cubicles  in  which  you  check  your  bags  at  the  railroad  station,&quot;  she  said,  pushing  her  spectacles  onto  her  nose.  &quot;A  long,  deep  recess  in  the  wall  into  which  the  coffin  is  placed  lengthwise,  with  a  plaque  outside.&quot;  &quot;How  does  one  get  down  there?&quot;  &quot;Right  through  here.&quot;  With  her  foot  she  tapped  a  large  stone  in  the  " b"floor,  justto  the  right  of  the  entrance.  It  had  a  large,  rusting  metal  handle.  &quot;Can't  we  go  downstairs?&quot;  My  voice  sounded  faint  and  piping,  like  that  of  a  child  fighting  back  its  tears.  &quot;Certainly  not,  my  poor  girl.  That  is  exceedingly  difficult!&quot;  she  exclaimed.  &quot;We  are  never  supposed  to  go  down  there  except  in  the  company  of  a  wit-  ness-a  judge,  or  a  clerk  of  the  court,  or  an  official  of  that  order.  It  means  breaking  all  that  cement  around  the  stone,  unsealing  it,  then  lifting  it.  Ten  years  ago,  the  vault  became  totally  filled  and  we  had  to  do  some  clearing  out,  some  pruning  and  weeding,  if  you  will,  And  wouldn't  you  know,  that  nice  little  task  was  assigned  to  me,  the  old  maid.  I  get  all  the  lousy  jobs.  I  had  to  have  that  stone  unsealed,  and  go  down  into  the  burial  vault  with  the  witness.&quot;  She  gave  a  little  shudder.  &quot;Merde  alors,  tu  sais,  c'\xc3\xa9tait  tr\xc3\xa9s  im-  pressionant.  It  was  dark  in  there,  very  dark,  and  .  ..  Listen,  are  you  sure  you  don't  want  to  be  alone  for  a  moment?  All  right.It  was  dark;  it  was  nota  pleasant  task.  We'd  held  a  family  coun-  cil  the  night  before  and  decided  exact-  ly  whom  to  get  rid  of.  We  decided  not  to  stick  to  chronology-that  would  have  been  a  bit  didactic.  We  simply  got  rid  of  those  strains  of  the  family  we  like  the  least-the  Cassons,  the  Du  Bourgs,  all  distant  cousins-and  there  were  a  few  bad  marriages  in  those  branches  of  the  family  anyhow.  We  did  some  selecting,  in  other  words,  and  put  them  into  the  common  grave  still  farther  underneath.  What  else  can  you  do  when  you  get  so  crowded?  The  whole  planet  is  getting  to  be  that  way.  &quot;Can  you  imagine  what  it  will  be  like  at  Resurrection  time?&quot;  she  added  gaily.  &quot;Not  an  inch  of  elbowroom!  What  a  mess!&quot;  N  the  drive  back  to  Saint-Seran,  she  kept  saying,  &quot;You're  quite  all  right,  aren't  you?&quot;  and  giving  a  re-  assuring  sideways  look.  &quot;Would  you  like  a  licorice,  a  comic  book?  ...  Ah,  I  forget,  you're  too  old  for  that.  In  my  mind,  you're  always  my  little  cousin.  An  aspirin?  I  always  keep  them  for  the  drunks  I  have  to  transport  to  the  tribunal.  I  haven't  told  you,  have  I,  that  Nantes  has  the  highest  percent-  age  of  alcoholics  of  any  city  in  Europe.  Worse  than  [REDACTED]-can  you  imag-  ine?  Actually,  we're  alike,  we  and  the  Irish-all  wild  Celts.  So.  Tell  me  more  about  [REDACTED].  What  do  youdo  for  your  insomnia?  Ifind  Teilhard  good  at  those  moments.  I  hear  you  do  not  eat  lunch  in  [REDACTED].  How  is  that  possible?  What  do  you  do  from  twelve  to  two?  Perhaps  it's  why  you  get  so  much  accomplished  over  there;  you're  less  sleepy  in  the  afternoon,  Is  [REDACTED]  a  very  small  country  in  compari-  son?  What  did  he  do-precisely-your  President,  to  be  tossed  out  like  that?&quot;  And  she  went  on  to  say  that  her  old-  est  sister,  Louise,  who  was  waiting  for  me  at  Saint-Seran,  swore  she  remem-  bered  me,  and  as  a  child  had  loved  me  like  a  sister.  Louise  had  driven  from  [REDACTED]  a  day  ahead  of  schedule  to  catch  me  before  I  flew  back  to  New  York.  Alone,  alone,  I  thought,  as  Catherine's  chatter  lulled  me  like  a  midnight  hypo-  dermic,  I  must  go  back  there  tomorrow  alone.  OUIsE  was  waiting  for  me  at  the  front  door.  As  I  got  out  of  her  sister's  car,  she  moved  toward  me  and  cupped  my  face  in  her  hands  and  stared  at  me  intently,  exhaling  strong  odors  of  gar-  lic  sausage.  &quot;After  thirty-six  years,  I  would  have  recognized  you  from  a  hundred  yards  away!&quot;  she  cried.  &quot;From  two  hundred  yards  away,  do  you  hear,  if  I  had  so  much  as  passed  you  on  the  street  in  [REDACTED]!&quot;  And  she  leaned  back  to  study  me  more  attentively,  smiling  beatifically  at  her  little  cousin,  She  had  a  round  and  shiny  face,  abundant  brown  hair  pulled  back  in  a  messy  bun,  crooked  teeth,  and  an  expression  of  great  kindness.  Her  large  breasts  were  barely  covered  by  a  flimsy  printed  challis  dress.  &quot;Well,  what's  taken  you  so  long?  What's  the  idea?  Oh,  if  you  knew  what  a  shining  memory  we  all  have  of  your  father!  He  was  our  hero,  you  know  that.  What  an  extraordinary  man!  What  brilliance!  What  charm!  The  best-looking  man  of  his  generation,  on  top  of  everything  else!  What  an  impression  he  made  on  us!  How  he  stamped  our  memo-  ry!  How  indelibly,  in-de-li-bly  he  marked  us  all!  How  he  adored  you!  And  how  you  adored  him!  Do  you  re-  member  him  well?&quot;  &quot;Very,&quot;  I  said  faintly.  &quot;And,  of  course,  you're  one  ofus  down  to  the  tip  of  your  little  finger!  Welcome,  welcome!&quot;  And  she  hugged  me  to  her  large  chest,  rocking  me  back  and  forth  like  a  small  baby.  Behind  her  stood  a  bevy  of  her  children-a  new  batch  of  nephews  and  nieces  for  me  to     meet-five  sons  and  daughters  between  the  ages  of  nineteen  and  twenty-four,  who  had  come  to  spend  the  week  at  Saint-Seran.  &quot;Yes,  how  he  adored  you,  how  you  adored  him,&quot;  she  repeated.  &quot;What  a  pretty  couple  you  made,  always  hug-  ging  and  kissing,  never  separated.  He  couldn't  stand  to  have  you  out  of  his  sight  for  five  minutes,  and  you  would  hardlyever  let  go  of  his  hand.  No  one  else  really  mattered  for  you  when  you  were  little,  isn't  that  right?  No,  I  know,  no  one,  no  one!  How  you  must  miss  him!&quot;  She  squeezed  me  again  and  began  to  whimper,  quite  genuinely.  The  sweet  bitch,  I  thought,  when  will  she  stop.  &quot;Poor  little  one,&quot;  she  moaned,  &quot;left  alone  at  sucha  young  age,  and  by  such  an  extraordinary  man,  by  such  an  extraordinary  parent!  How  different,  how  different  things  would  have  been  if  he  had  not  died!  What  a  different  destiny  you  would  have  had!  Even  our  destinies  might  have  been  changed,  too.  Do  you  remember  when  he  took  us  all  to  Nantes  to  see  'Three  Little  Pigs'?&quot;  &quot;No,  I  don't,  quite.&quot;  &quot;You  don't  remember  'Three  Little  Pigs'?&quot;  she  wailed.  &quot;But  how  could  you  forget?  I  was  fifteen,  Catherine  was  twelve,  you  and  Daniel  were  eight.  Then  do  you  remember  that  time  he  took  us  all  to  the  circus  in  Nantes?&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cNO.\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;But  how  can  you  not  remember?  There  was  this  lovely  clown  you  en-  joyed  so,  but  when  he  came  toward  us  and  your  father  said,  'Don't  you  want  to  shake  hands  with  the  you  burst  into  tears  and  said,  'I  can't;  we  haven't  been  introduced.&quot;  &quot;  She  laughed  uproariously,  shaking  my  body  back  and  forth.  &quot;You  were  always  such  a  formal  child,  always  very  formally  brought  up  by  those  governesses  who  took  care  of  you  when  you  were  not  with  your  fa-  ther.  Almost  too  stiffly,  I'd  say,  unlike  us.  A  very  complex  child.  Very  precise,  very  sensitive,  I  remember  you  used  to  brush  your  hair  one  hundred  times  in  the  morning  and  one  hundred  times  at  night  when  you  were  eight  years  old.  You  were  always  our  little  prin-  cess;  even  thoughyou  didn't  come  back  all  this  time,  you've  remained  our  little  princess  in  [REDACTED].  Oh  my  God,  I  haven't  even  shown  you  the  photographs  of  my  daughters'  weddings!  Such  marvellous  weddings!  How  could  you  have  stayed  away!&quot;  I  saw  that  an  album  was  already  set  upon  the  table  next  to  us,  ready  for  my  perusal.  &quot;Ah,  here's  the  wedding  of  my  old-  " b"est  daughter,  Poupette.  Yes,  how  could  you  have  stayed  away  from  such  a  fine  event?  We  sent  you  all  our  wedding  announcements,  we  all  did,  for  years,  and  you  never  responded  to  them.  She  married  a  very  good  name.  Not  that  much  money,  but  a  very  old  name;  that's  still  what  counts,  after  all.  And  an  excellent  piece  of  land  in  Picardy.  The  wedding  at  a  private  chapel  of  the  bridegroom's  parents'  castle.  Not  many  of  us  have  that  anymore,  a  private  chapel!  Four  priests  officiating.  Do-  minicans.  Can  you  imagine.  Four  Dominicans!  'Then  an  orchestra  from  Amiens  played  Strauss  waltzes.  Six  at-  tendants  for  her,  in  Alengon  lace,  car-  rying  bouquets  of  roses  and  stephanotis.  How  could  you  not  have  come  back  to  such  a  splendid  wedding?&quot;  &quot;ALORS,  mon  zouzou  ...  Alors,  mon  beau  petit  coco  ...  Bon-  jour,  mon  petit  mignon  ...  Bonjour,  le  joli  b\xc3\xa9b\xc3\xa9  adore.&quot;  Louise's  daughter  is  already  wheeling  a  baby  carriage  and  is  at  the  end  of  a  stroll  in  the  park.  Aunt  [REDACTED],  my  cousin  Daniel,  Aunt  Colette  walk  alongside  her  very  slowly,  making  pretty  noises  at  the  baby.  More  celebration  ofthe  propaga-  tion  of  protoplasm.  Another  offspring  to  revere  Saint-Seran,  and  to  come  back  each  summer  to  admire  its  shut-  tered  windows,  its  mysterious  and  sleep-  ing  air.  &quot;Oh,  le  beau  poupon  ...  Alors,  mon  petit  Zouave  ...  Alors,  mon  petit  soldat,&quot;  Aunt  Colette  is  cooing  into  the  carriage.  Then,  turning  to  me,  &quot;Don't  you  love  babies  when  they're  teeny  tiny,  when  they  can  almost  fit  into  the  palm  of  your  hand  .  ..  look  at  those  teeny  teeny  hands,  those  teeny  teeny  feet.  Can  you  imagine,  even  de  Gaulle  once  had  feet  as  teeny  as  those.&quot;  The  family  gathers  on  the  terrace  for  tea.  Chocolate  cake  is  brought  out.  Debate  rages  about  the  cake,  the  reci-  pe  for  which  has  been  in  the  family  for  two  hundred  years.  &quot;You  do  mot  add  the  egg  yolks  to  it,  you  only  put  in  the  whites,&quot;  says  Aunt  [REDACTED].  &quot;I  know  that  our  cousins  on  the  Belleville  side  add  the  yolks,  but  that's  wrong.  Yolks  make  it  too  heavy,  I  assure  you.&quot;  &quot;Alors,  mon  beau  zouzou,&quot;  Aunt  Colette  continues  to  purr,  as  she  must  have  purred  at  me  in  my  carriage.  &quot;Alors,  mon  beau  lapin  .  ..  Alors,  mon  petit  tr\xc3\xa9sor.&quot;  One  last  family  picture  of  the  dwell-  ing  bathed  in  the  pale  Vend\xc3\xa9e  light.  Click:  Aunt  Colette,  in  her  watery  silks,  her  tufted  face  pointed  in  the  di-  rection  of  the  forest,  says  in  her  tink,  ling  voice,  &quot;We  had  a  glorious  stroll  this  afternoon.  The  afternoon  sunlight  is  so  beautiful  today  on  the  stands  of  elms  at  the  northwest  corner  of  the  park.&quot;  &quot;Mozambique,&quot;  Aunt  [REDACTED]  says,  pouring  tea  out  of  the  gilt,  crest-  ed  Empire  teapot,  her  album  of  stamps  still  on  her  lap.  &quot;Listen,  dear  child,  you're  going  back  to  [REDACTED]  tomor-  row,  surely  you  can  find  me  one  from  Mozambique.  Next  time  you  return,  there's  a  bed  for  you.  We  expect  you  back  next  summer.&quot;  &quot;So  you're  going  to  go  back  and  impeach  your  xew  President  on  some  silly  puritanical  principle  or  other,&quot;  Daniel  roars  across  the  tea  table.  &quot;Did  anyone  raise  an  eyebrow  when  Napo-  leon  pillaged  [REDACTED]?  A  little  more  " b"high-handed  authority-that's  what  the  modern  world  needs.&quot;  Catherine  looks  anxiously  at  her  watch,  straightens  her  spectacles,  says,  &quot;I  really  must  get  back  to  Nantes  by  five.  There's  a  very  disturbed  child  in  that  alcoholic  family  I  must  take  care  of  immediately,  even  if  it  takes  me  all  night  to  get  him  away.&quot;  I  ALMOST  do  not  get  there-back  to  the  chapel  alone,  I  mean.  I  feel  an  ambivalence  of  desire  and  terror  toward  that  last  visit  which  is  more  confusing  than  any  emotion  I  have  ever  known  before.  Yet  I  manage  to  go.  I  am  booked  on  a  one-o'clock  plane  from  Nantes  to  [REDACTED]  which  connects  with  a  three-o'clock  flight  to  New  York.  I  hire  acar  for  the  morning  and,  with  my  bags  in  the  trunk,  set  off  very  early  for  Saint  Philbert.  I  am  possessed  by  one  principal  emotion:  by  fearthat  I  shall  again  feel  emptiness,  the  absence  of  him,  the  absence  of  emotion,  the  same  numb  hollowness  I  had  felt  be-  fore,  that  rage  so  often  masked  by  void  and  boredom.  I  find  my  way  without  difficulty.  Turn  right  at  the  post  office,  turn  left  at  the  bakery,  turn  right  again  at  the  General,  two  blocks  from  the  Saint  Philbert  cemetery.  On  the  side  wall  of  the  bakery  is  an  enormous  sign:  &quot;Gordon's  Dry  Gin.&quot;  The  Gen-  eral  looks  fiercer  than  ever  in  this  morning's  sunny  light,  his  sword  rising  threateningly  above  the  bands  of  petu-  nias,  forget-me-nots,  and  geraniums  that  grow  in  circles  about  his  feet.  One  more  block  and  I  am  at  the  graveyard.  I  park  the  car,  walk  out,  and  take  a  pictureof  the  cemetery.  The  ceramic  flowers  blaze  crimson  and  purple  about  the  gray  monument.  An  albinic  light  envelops  it  all.  Once  inside  the  chapel,  I  walk  up  the  tiny  nave,  reach  into  my  pocket  for  a  note-  book,  and  feel  driven  to  take  notes  on  my  ancestors'  names.  So  and  so,  and  so  and  so,  and  so  and  so-Am\xc3\xa9lie  de  Pommery,  Isabelle  de  La  Varende-  such  pretty  names,  names  of  cham-  pagnes  and  musketeers.  The  notebook  is  a  screen,  a  haven  of  safety.  I,  the reporter,  always  take  notes  on  what-  ever  comes  within  my  range  of  sight  and  hearing,  but  am  seldom  moved  by  the  subject  matter  at  hand.  My  family  all  had  insomnia-that's  one  new  fact  that  I  find  touching.  Grand-  father  reading  his  Taine,  Uncle  Jean  his  Michelet,  Colette  her  de  Gaulle,  my  father  spending  seven  years  of  his  white  nights  writing  a  tract  on  the  radical  reform  of  the  European  econ-  omy,  the  only  copy  of  which  he  lost  when  he  left  it  in  the  back  of  some-  one's  car.  Whence  this  anxiety,  dear  history  nuts,  whence  this  agitation?  Here  you  sleep  at  last,  new  friends,  sweet  insomniacs;  here  you  sleep  at  last  after  centuries  of  turning  in  your  beds.  ...  A  woman  in  dun-colored  dress  walks  into  the  chapel,  quietly  comes  up  the  nave,  crosses  herself,  and  grooms  the  gladioli  and  dahlias  at  the  altar  with  slow,  deliberate  strokes  of  her  pruning  shears.  She  bows  again,  returns  to  a  back  pew,  and  sits  down.  I  am  still  scribbling,  scribbling.  The  gold  letters  announce  that  one  of  my  great-granduncles  died  in  1838  while  directing  the  French  fleet's  assault  on  Veracruz;  that  the  General,  some  years  after  leaving  his  post  in  [REDACTED],  was  exiled  from  [REDACTED]  for  opposing  Na-  poleon  III's  Italian  campaign  and  chose  to  serve  on  the  other  side,  as  head  of  the  Papal  troops.  Militarists,  imperial-  ists,  colonialists-just  the  men  I  would  take  part  in  protest  marches  against,  and  yet  I  am  beginning  to  admire  them,  to  be  proud  of  them.  What  a  good  tribe  I  was  born  into-defiant,  eccentric,  pigheaded.  Created  for  vio-  lence  and  romance,  for  heroism  and  early  death.  Nantes-the  highest  per-  centage  of  Royalists  of  any  city  in  [REDACTED],  the  highest  percentage  of  alco-  holics  of  any  city  in  Europe,  perhaps  the  highest  percentage  of  insomniacs.  The  Breton  Liberation  Front  is  trying  to  incorporate  it  into  a  new,  autono-  mous  Breton  state.  I  sense  by  the  silence  behind  me  that  the  woman  with  the  pruning  shears  is  praying,  that  she  must  be  a  nun.  I  hear  her  footsteps  retreating.  I  sense  by  some  slight  rustling  of  her  clothes  that  she  is  making  the  sign  of  the  Cross  as  she  leaves  the  chapel.  I  put  my  notebook  back  into  my  pocket,  not  knowing  quite  what  to  do  next.  Now  that  I  am  alone  again,  I  turn  around  and  walk  down  the  nave  toward  the  back  pew.  The  nuns  must  come  to  tend  the  flowers  every  day;  there  is  a  heavy  but  clean  scent  of  roses  on  the  air.  Outside  the  chapel,  the  light  is  fresh,  inviting,  bland.  Shall  I  leave  now,  exit  into  the  sunlight  before  it  " b'happens?  But  in  some  instinctive  ges-  ture  made  possible  by  the  rituals  of  childhood,  I  choose  to  kneel  down  on  thesealing  stone  that  stands  between  me  and  the  dead,  the  stone  I  had  so  desired  to  break  open  the  day  before,  the  stone  that  separates  his  body  from  mine.  I  kneel  on  the  stone,  scratching  shyly  at  the  cement  that  seals  me  off  from  below.  It  is  of  the  same  texture  as  all  the  other  bands  of  cement  that  intersect  the  grav  flagstones  of  the  chapel  floor,  but  slightly  darker  in  hue.  There  is  some  difference,  some  differ-  ence  that  makes  me  keep  on  scratching,  scratching,  to  make  surethat  it  is  in-  deed  as  immutable  as  Catherine  said,  to  verify  my  impotence,  to  make  sure  that  I  cannot  break  through  it.  And  then  suddenly  my  liberation  comes.  I  am  free  now,  kneeling  on  the  stone,  sud-  denly  free,  and  shaking,  my  head  rest-  ing  against  the  rusty  metal  handle  that  could  be  lifted  for  our  reunion.  I  weep,  I  shake,  I  pound  at  the  stone  with  my  head,  I  kick  it,  and  beat  at  it  with  my  hands.  I  feel  no  uneasiness  or  shame  at  my  behavior.  I  feel  that  society  is  sick  for  forbidding  us  such  liberations  any  more,  for  obstructing  the  channels  of  our  grief,  for  not  letting  us  properly  mourn  the  dead.  I  feel  that  I  am  un-  conquerably  sane  and  that  society  is  mad.  I  lie  prone  on  the  floor  for  a  half  hour,  crying  abundantly,  my  hands  bruised  by  my  knocking,  my  head  ach-  ing  from  its  jolts  against  the  stone.  Yet  I  do  not  feel  any  more  rage.  Nor  do  I  feel  void,  or  fear.  I  am  crying  my  heart  out,  free  at  last.  He  is  there,  he  is  there,  he  is  there.  I  finally  know  that  he  is  there,  down  below.  But  that  is  not  the  point.  He  is  both  there  and  not  there.  He  is  now  allowed  to  live  in  my  memory,  totally  restored  and  whole  now,  as  if  resurrected,  the  reality  of  his  death  ac-  cepted,  faced,  After  a  considerable  time,  I  begin  to  raise  myself  up  to  my  knees.  I  have  no  more  need  to  ham-  mer  at  the  floor;  I  know  he  is  there;  may  he  sleep  at  last.  May  he  rest  in  peace.  May  he  sleep  at  last.  As  I  start  to  get  up,  Isee  that  a  plaque  above  my  head,  a  few  feet  away,  commemorates  one  Julie  de  Lamorici\xc3\xa9re,  wife  of  that  martial  con-  queror  whose  remains  were  so  vyora-  ciously  preserved  by  his  admirers.  It  reads:  Julie  Am\xc3\xa9lie  d  Abeslard  de  Lamorici\xc3\xa9re  Died  in  [REDACTED]  the  26th  of  April  1885  Her  body  reposes  here  Next  to  that  of  her  husband  and  her  children  Awaiting  the  resurrection.  Think  of  that.  '