 b"NO  man  has  ever  seen  a  quark.  How,  then,  do  we  know  they  exist?  The  circumstantial  evi-  dence  is  overwhelming.  We  have  seen  the  incredibly  tiny  bubble  tracks.  We  have  heard  the  eerie  cries  in  the  night.  (Not  even  a  charging  neutrino  makes  a  sound  quite  like  that.)  And  there  are  the  ancient  legends:  the  tales  of  hu-  man  sacrifices  to  assuage  the  terrible  anger  of  the  quark  gods,  the  chants  of  the  shamans,  who  believed  that  quarks  made  the  sun  rise  and  fall,  the  seasons  change,  the  rivers  flow  home  to  the  sea,  and  that  they  were  available  in  three  colors  and  four  flavors.  We  do  not  believe  that,  of  course,  and  yet  we  know  there  is  something  out  there.  ...  Dr.  Gaddis  Quigley,  of  the  Tota  In-  stitute,  set  out  in  June  to  track  the  elu-  sive  quark  to  its  lair.  I  was  pleased  to  be  included  in  his  party.  Also  chosen  were  Dr.  Fenton  Balbanian,  the  emi-  nent  rudimentologist;  Soy  Chavann,  the  controversial  infinitesimalist  and  cynic;  and  Jankowski,  the  kid  from  [REDACTED],  a  rehabilitated  punk,  whose  task  was  carrying  equipment  and  pro-  viding  comic  relief.  Oddly,  nobody  in  the  group  was  more  than  five  feet  tall.  Dr.  Quigley  was  admirably  frank  in  explaining  the  dangers  inherent  in  our  quest.  Yet  not  a  man  among  us-  nor  Eleanora  Grom-  O  met,  our  physician  and  the  only  woman  filled  with  lowing  herds     aboard,  recruited  at  the  last  minute  in  response  to  picketing  by  a  pro-  test  group-flinched  at  of  muons,  which  scat-  tered  at  our  approach.  Hyperons  chattered  overhead  as  cut  our  way  through  the     we     the  prospect  of  facing  the  dread  quark.  All  of  us  were  qualified.  Dr.  Quigley  had  hunt-  ed  the  snipe,  the  snark,  and  the  carbuncle  with-  out  qualm.  I  had  once  faced  an  excited  hadron  alone  and  unarmed,  and  spent  my  college  vacations  spelunking  through  black  holes.  We  were  all  handpicked  for  calm  un-  der  fire,  and  we  would  certainly  need  it  while  hunting  the  quark,  with  its  un-  predictable  nature,  its  low  boredom  threshold,  and  its  most  uncanny  natural  defense  mechanism-a  life  span  of  one-  thousandth  ofa  billionth  of  a  second.  &quot;This  will  make  it  extremely  difficult  to  get  off  an  accurate  shot,&quot;  Dr.  Quig-  ley  warned  us.  &quot;You  will  not  have  a  second  chance.&quot;  Dr.  Filbert  Cranshaw,  of  Scintilla  University,  our  theoretician  and  public-  relations  man,  was  excited-perhaps  overly  so-at  the  possibility  of  our  un-  earthing  a  &quot;charmed&quot;  quark.  Recent  sightings  had  been  reported,  but  I  and  the  others  questioned  their  authenticity.  Like  such  pop  apparitions  as  the  In-  domitable  Slow  Man,  the  Big  Mouth  of  the  Rockies,  and  the  Landlocked  Nester,  the  existence  of  the  charmed  quark  seemed  more  wishful  than  think-  ing.  &quot;Cranshaw  can't  tell  a  particle  from  a  cuticle  anymore,&quot;  scoffed  Cha-  vann  when  the  grand  old  man's  back  was  turned,  I  was  inclined  to  agree,  but  I  was  ready  for  anything.  Or  so  I  thought.  FTER  a  week  of  provisioning  and  taking  on  hydrogen,  we  boarded  our  bubble  chamber  and  moved  out  into  the  vast  Subatomic  Field,  setting  up  abase  camp  in  the  forbidding  Vec-  tor  Meson.  Our  initial  excitement  was  soon  replaced  by  a  pervasive  unease,  and,  sheltered  from  the  raging  ele-  ments  by  our  Quonsets,  we  spent  a  nervous  first  night.  Jankowski  played  an  endless  quadrille  on  his  ocarina  until  Chavann  yelled  for  quiet.  Dr.  Grom-  met  went  in  to  calm  the  boy,  and  was  able  to  lull  him  to  sleep  by  softly  recit-  ing  the  periodic  table.  At  dawn,  we  made  directly  for  quark  country,  fanning  out  in  a  semi-  circle.  It  was  a  wild, luminous  landscape,   thick  nuclei,  and  in  the  distance  we  could  hear  the  mournful  howl  of  the  ever-dangerous  lep-  ton.  The  hours  passed,  and  we  searched  on  until  we  were  bleary-  eyed.  With  dusk  ap-  proaching,  we  finally  turned  back  toward  camp.  Above,  the  quasars  were  pul-  sating  dimly.  Clumsily,  I  almost  stepped  on  a  sleeping  proton  and  it  sent  up  a  shower  of  sparks.  I  was  silently  resolv-  ing  to  be  more  careful  when  suddenly  I  heard  it-that  unforgettable  aching  cry.  It  stopped  me  cold  -the  querulous,  full-throated  croak  of  the  adult  bull  quark.  Even  though  I'd  heard  only  Dr.  Cranshaw's  faculty-tea  imitations,  I  recognized  it  instantly.  Then  came  a  metallic  flash.  Quigley  was  shouting,  &quot;'There!  Behind  the  electron  cloud.&quot;  I  saw  something  move  and  squeezed  off  a  laser  beam.  But  I  was  rattled  and  it  caromed  harmlessly  off  a  huge  graviton.  Cursing  my  ineptitude,  and  thinking  that  probably  we'd  lost  our  quarry,  I  began  running  toward  the  spot  where  the  flash  had  come  from.  Then,  so  quickly  that  I  didn't  realize  what  was  happening,  Soy  Chavann  was  down,  clutching  at  his  toe  and  howling.  The  incredible  was  taking  place.  He  was  being  squelched  by  a  charmed  anti-  quark,  apparently  the  mate  of  the  quark  we'd  just  flushed.  She  was  try-  ing  to  protect  her  young.  I  couldn't  get  off  another  beam,  be-  cause  Balbanian  was  between  Chavann  and  myself  and  his  Quantum  Theo-  rizer  had  jammed!  It  was  young  Jan-  kowski,  unarmed  but  for  his  ocarina,  who  got  there  first,  and  courageously  failed  at  the  ground  with  his  instru-  ment.  Too  late.  She  was  gone  as  soon  as  she  had  come,  if  not  before,  and  Chavann  lay  shaking,  a  wan  smirk  on  his  lips.  &quot;Cranshaw  was  right,&quot;  he  said  in  a  horrible  whisper.  &quot;I  had  her  in  my  microscope  cross  hairs,  just  for  a  milli-  second.  She  exists-the  charmed  anti-  quark!&quot;  &quot;But  now  you  must  rest,&quot;  ordered  Dr.  Grommet,  kneeling  to  give  him  a  quinine  shot.  As  Dr.  Quigley  came  huffing  up,  Chavann  beckoned  for  him  to  draw  near.  &quot;Leave  me  here,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'm  done  for.  You  must  return  immediate-  ly  to  make  the  fall  issue  of  Particle  Quarterly.\xe2\x80\x9d  Dr.  Quigley  looked  stricken,  but  his  voice  was  firm.  &quot;Don't  be  foolish,  son,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You're  going  to  pull  through.  It's  just  a  question  of  mind  over  mat-  ter.&quot;  "