 b"I  HAVE  been  the  house  pet  to  sev- eral  families:  friendly,  cheerful,  good  with  children,  and,  most  im-  portant,  I  have  an  acute  sensitivity  to  the  individual  rhythms  of  family  life.  I  blend  in  perfectly,  without  losing  myself.  A  good  houseguest  is  like  an  entertainer:  Judy  Garland,  Georgette  Heyer,  No\xc3\xa9l  Coward.  You  know  what  a  specific  public  wants-in  my  case,  groups  of  two,  with  children.  For  example,  Paul  and  Vera  Mar-  tens  and  their  children,  Ben  and  [REDACTED].  Paul  and  Vera  are  lawyers.  Paul  spends  rainy  Sundays  fishing,  and  although  Vera  is  a  real  cook,  she  is  not  fond  of  cleaning  fish,  so  Paul's  grandfather's  knife  is  entrusted  to  me.  I  do  the  neat  job  of  a  surgeon.  Vera,  who  likes  pre-  cision,  was  so  impressedby  my  initial  performance  that  she  allowed  me  into  her  kitchen,  and  we  have  been  cooking  together  ever  since.  I  knew  by  instinct  where  she  would  keep  her  pots,  her  baking  dishes,  her  mixing  bowls,  her  silverware.  If  you  are  interested  in  peo-  ple,  their  domestic  arrangements  are  of  interest,  too.  That's  the  sort  of  stu-  dent  of  human  conduct  I  am.  In  [REDACTED],  I  visit  Christopher  and  Jean  Goodison  and  their  little  son,  Jean  Luc.  The  Goodisons  are  hap-  hazard  housekeepers,  but  I  have  their  routine  down  pat.  Their  baby  and  I  get  along  famously.  We  have  had  a  few  moments  together:  a  hailstorm  he  ob-  served  from  my  lap;  learning  to  crawl;  an  afternoon  with  a  kitten.  The  best  way  with  babies,  I  have  come  to  know,  is  quictude.  Never  approach  first.  Be  casual.  Pay  minimal  tactile  attention,  and  never  try  to  make  them  love  you.  You  can  sit  on  the  same  sofa  with  a  child  anddo  nothing  more  than  clutch  its  little  foot  from  time  to  time,  and  before  long  you  will  have  that  child  on  your  lap.  The  Goodisons  will  leave  Jean  Luc  with  me  when  they  go  shopping,  al-  though  ordinarily-with  ordinary  mor-  tals,  that  is-they  are  very  protective  of  their  son.  When  they  return,  I  sur-  prise  them  with  a  Lady  [REDACTED]  cake.  Alone  in  their  house,  I  admire  their  Shaker  table,  the  fancy-back  spoons  I  find  mixed  in  with  their  spatulas,  the  dried-flower  arrangements  in  their  lus-  treware  pitchers.  And  there  are  others:  the  Hartwells  in  [REDACTED],  who  live  in  a  spartan  apart-  ment  decorated  with  city-planning  charts.  The  rigorous  Mazzinas,  who  take  me  camping.  The  elegant  Jer-  ricks,  who  dress  for  dinner  and  bring  you  a  breakfast  tray  on  Sunday  morn-     ing:  coffee,  toast,  and  a  small  vase  with  a  single  flower  in  it.  My  friends  ad-  mire  my  charm,  my  sagacity,  my  pro-  priety,  and  my  positive  talent  for  fitting  in  with  the  daily  life  of  others  while  holding  my  own.  The  adhesive  tape  on  my  mailbox  reads:  &quot;P.  Rice.&quot;  Paula  Rice,  that  is;  known  to  all  as  Polly.  I  am  the  charm-  ing  girl  illustrator.  I  did  thepictures  for  &quot;Hector  the  Hero,&quot;  &quot;The  Pig  Who  Said  Pneu,&quot;  &quot;Fish  with  Feathers,&quot;  &quot;Snow  White  and  Rose  Red,&quot;and  &quot;The  I  Don't  Care  Papers&quot;-all  chil-  dren's  books.  Five  feet  four,  reddish  hair,  brown  eyes,  long  legs.  At  college,  I  studied  medieval  French,  but  kept  a  sketchbook  with  me  at  all  times.  Dur-  ing  the  summers,  I  studied  calligraphy,  papermaking,  and  bookbinding,  and  worked  as  an  apprentice  at  the  La-  fayette  Publishing  Company,  printers  of  fine  editions.  I  make  a  living  illus-  trating  children's  books,  but  to  please  myself  I  do  etchings  and  ink  drawings,  which  I  often  present  to  friends  on  special  occasions-marriages,  anniver-  saries,  birthdays.  On  the  side,  I  am  a  perfect  house-  guest.  I  have  the  temperament  for  it.  Being  a  designer  teaches  you  the  habit  of  neatness,  and  an  appreciation  for  a  sense  of  order  not  your  own.  Being  a  houseguest  allows  you  to  fantasize  with  no  one  crowding  you.  After  all,  you  are  but  a  guest,  an  adornment.  Your  object  is  to  give  pleasure  to  your  hosts.  Lolling  around  in  other  people's  houses  allows  your  mind  to  drift.  Inspired  by  my  surroundings,  I  indulge  myself  in  this  lazy,  scene-setting  kind  of  thought.  For  example:  a  big  yellow  moon;  the  kitchen  of  an  old  house  in  an  academic  community.  On  the  window  ledge  a  jar  of  homemade  jam,  a  pot  of  chives,  a  cutting  of  grape  ivy  in  a  cracked  mug.  A  big  dog  sleeps  in  front  of  the  stove.  If  you  open  the  window,  you  feel  the  crisp  October  air.  An  apple  pie  ora  loaf  of  bread  is  in  the  oven,  and  the  house  is  warm  with  the  scent  of  it.  You  wonder  if  it  is  time  to  deal  with  the  last  pumpkin,  or  to  pickle  the  basket  of  green  tomatoes.  In  the  study,  your  hus-  band  is  drowsing  over  an  elevating  book,  a  university-press  book  in  blue  wrappers.  You  are  wearing  a  corduroy   skirt,  a  chic  blouse,  and  a  sweater  of  your  husband's  is  tied  around  your  shoulders.  You  are  a  woman  contem-  plating  seasonal  change.  Or  you  go  to  the  Martenses'  on  a  rainy  night.  They  occupy  two  floors  of  a  Victorian  brownstone,  and  as  you  contemplate  the  polished  moldings  and  watch  the  rain  through  the  leaded  windows,  you  feel  you  are  in  England  in  the  spring-in  a  little  house  in  Devizes,  say,  or  Bexhill-on-Sea.  Your  children  have  just  been  put  to  bed.  You  have  finished  reading  a  book  on  the  life  of  Joseph  Wright  of  Derby.  There  is  a  knock  on  the  door.  You  start  up.  Your  husband  is  away,  and  itis  foggy  outside.  At  the  door  is  an  old  lover,  someone  who  broke  your  heart,  who  is  in  England  on  business  and  has  tracked  you  down.  Of  course,  the  fact  of  the  matter  is  that  you  live  in  a  flat  in  New  York.  Your  work  is  done  at  an  oak  drawing  table,  surrounded  by  pots  of  brushes  and  pens.  In  other  people's  houses  your  perspective  widens.  You  contemplate  the  Martenses'  old  Spode  platter.  You  know  the  burn  on  their  dining-room  table-the  only  flaw  in  its  walnut  sur-  face-is  from  Paul's  cigar,  placed  there  the  night  before  Ben  was  born.  These  details  feed  the  imagination.  Oh,  domesticity!  The  wonder  of  dinner  plates  andcream  pitchers.  You  know  your  friends  by  their  ornaments.  You  want  everything.  If  Mrs.  A.  has  her  mama's  old  jelly  mold,  you  want  one,  too,  and  everything  that  goes  with  it--the  family,  the  tradition,  the  years  of  having  jelly  molded  in  it.  We  do-  mestic  sensualists  live  ina  state  of  longing,  no  matter  how  comfortable  our  own  places  are.  You  cannot  bea  good  houseguest  and  be  married.  Single,  you  carry  only  the  uncluttered  luggage  of  your  own  personality,  selected  and  packed  by  only  one  pair  of  hands.  Marriage  is  two-di-  mensional  to  the  unmarried.  No  matter  how  close  they  get  to  a  couple,  they  view  the  situation  without  any  depth  perception.  If  companionship  is  what  you  want,  and  you  don't  have  it,  any  part  of  it  looks  good,  including  com-  plaints,  squabbles,  misunderstanding.  If  only,  you  feel,  you  had  someone  close  enough  to  misunderstand.  In-  timate  enough  to  squabble  with.  Well  known  enough  to  complain  about.  Mar-  riage  is  a  condition,  like  neatness,  or  or-  der.  It  is  as  safe  as  the  wedding  silver  on  the  sideboard.  To  the  unmarried,  marriage  is  a  sort  of  trapping,  right  down  to  the  thin,  unobtrusive  gold  bands.  That's  romanticism  for  you.  No  one  fantasizes  about  dreary  afternoons,  " b"despair,  unreasonableness,  chaos,  and  boredom.  Not  the  unmarried,  that  is-  especially  if  they  contem-  plate  marriage  from  a  perch  of  well-savored  solitude.  Solitude  provides  you  the  luxury  of  thinking  about  the  closed,  graceful  shapes  of  other  people's  lives.  My  friends  are  steady,  just  like  me.  But,  steady  as  I  am,  why  am  I  so  solitary?  No  matter  how  orderly,  meas-  ured,  and  careful  my  ar-  rangements  are,  they  are  only  a  distillation  of  me,  not  a  fusion  of  myself  and  someone  else.  I  have  my  domestic  comforts,  except  that  mine  are  only  mine.  MY  life  changed  with  the  appearance  into  it  of  Gilbert  Seigh.  It  was  for  Gilbert  that  I  produced  my  best  work:  illustrations  for  &quot;The  Art  of  Courtly  Love&quot;  and  &quot;The  Poems  of  Marie  de  [REDACTED].&quot;  Gilbert's  father,  grand-  father,  and  great-grandfa-  ther  had  been  publishers  of  fine  editions.  After  practic-  ing  law  for  five  years,  Gil-  bert  took  over  the  business  when  his  father's  eyesight  began  to  fail.  Gilbert  was  born  into  the  business,  and  was  infected  with  it.  His  great-grandfather  did  editions  of  the  Book  of  Common  Prayer,  of  James  Fenimore  Cooper,  Thackeray,  and  Mrs.  Scott  Courrier-Maynard,  a  now  unknown  poet  of  [REDACTED].  His  grandfather  went  in  for  U.  S.  Grant's  memoirs,  [REDACTED]  Irving,  and  Speeches  of  American  Presidents,  Gil-  bert's  father  did  the  poets  of  his  day,  edited  and  published  a  little  magazine  called  Lampfire,  and  produced  double-  language  volumes  of  Rimbaud,  Rilke,  and  Christian  Morgenstern.  Gilbert  goes  in  for  the  classics,  for  naturalist  works,  and  for  Melville.  Three  thousand  dol-  lars  will  get  you  the  Seigh  Press  edi-  tion  of  &quot;Billy  Budd.&quot;  Six  will  get  you  his  two  volumes  of  &quot;Wild  Flowers  of  the  North  American  Continent.&quot;  Gilbert  does  not  look  like  a  man  of  books.  He  looks  like  a  young  auto  mag-  nate:  large,  ruddy,  and  enthusiastic.  His  glasses  fog  over  from  sheer  enjoyment.  He  has  a  hot  temper  and  a  big,  loud  laugh.  I  often  picture  him  in  his  leather  chair  at  his  office,  laughing  and  wiping  his  glasses  on  the  vest  of  his  woolly   suit.  I  like  to  watch  him  go  up  against  his  master  binder,  a  fiery  Italian  named  Antonio  Nello,  fighting  about  theor-  naments  for  a  spine.  This  clash  of  hard-  headed  perfectionists  brings  forth  stub-  born  shouting  from  Gilbert  and  oper-  atic  flights  of  invective  from  Antonio,  after  which  the  correct  solution  is  reached.  Several  months  after  I  met  Gilbert,I  fell  in  love  with  him.  I  was  sent  to  him  by  Paul  Martens.  Gilbert,  at  dinner  with  Paul  and  Vera,  had  said  he  was  looking  for  an  illustrator  and  couldn't  find  one  whose  work  he  liked.  He  had  been  to  dozens  of  galleries,  museums,  and  agents.  He  had  looked  through  hundreds  of  illustrated  books.  Then  Paul  showed  him  a  drawing  I  had  done  to  celebrate  the  birth  of  [REDACTED];  it  shows  a  homely  little  girl  sitting  in  a  field  of  lavender  and  purple  flowers.  Gilbert  asked  if  the  artist  was  still  alive.  It  was  the  best  thing  he  had  seen  since  Arthur  Rackham,  he  said.  Vera  produced  copies  of  &quot;Fish  with  Feathers&quot;  and  &quot;Snow  White  and  Rose  Red.&quot;  Thus  the  girl  illustrator  met  Gilbert  Seigh  one  rainy  midmorning.  He  skimmed  through  my  portfolio,  and  since  there  was  nothing  at  stake,  I  felt  free  to  dis-  like  him.  I  felt  he  was  cavalier  with  my  work,  I  felt  I  had  been  set  up  by  the  Martenses  to  meet  an  available  man  whose  tastes  were  similar  to  my  own.  He  closed  the  portfolio  and  began  to  hum  happily,  at  which  point  I  figured  him  for  a  moron.  My  heart  is  like  a  singing  bird,&quot;  &quot;  he  sang.  My  reactions  were  coming  thick  and  fast  now,  I  thought  he  was  arrogant,  insolent,  pretentious,  and  dopily  eccen-  tric.  I  picked  up  the  portfolio  and  tied  its  ribbons.  I  said,  &quot;'Thank  you  for  seeing  me.&quot;  And  began  to  leave.  &quot;Oh,  wait,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I've  put  you  off.  I'm  terribly  sorry.  You  think  I  haven't  paid  proper  attention  to  your  work,  but  I  already  know  your  work.  Vera  showed  me  your  books  and  the  picture  you  did  for  [REDACTED].  I  was  behaving  like  a  fool  because  it's  so  " b"good.  I'm  too  mono-minded  to  have  told  you.  You're  the  illustrator  I've  been  looking  for.  Please  sit  down.&quot;  I  sat.  I  thought  he  was  cuckoo.  Then  he  described  the  project  he  had  in  mind:  an  edition  of  Andreas  Capel-  lanus'  &quot;The  Art  of  Courtly  Love.&quot;  I  told  him  I  had  studied  medieval  litera-  ture.  He  glowed  with  delight,  and  wiped  his  glasses.  He  still  seemed  a  little  batty  to  me,  but  he  certainly  knew  what  beautiful  books  were  all  about.  That's  how  it  began.  I  went  home,  finished  my  last  assignment,  and  began  doing  my  best  work  for  Gilbert  Seigh.  We  worked  elegantly  together.  It  was  a  perfect  match.  He  took  me  out  to  lunch  often,  and  never  so  much  as  brushed  my  arm  with  his  sleeve.  It  was  said  he  had  been  keeping  company  with  a  lady  lawyer,  who  had  been  more  or  less  a  fixture  in  his  life  since  his  divorce.  So  it  was  to  Gilbert  that  I  dedicated  my  heart.  I  brooded  about  him  constantly.  Being  in  love  with  him  brought  me  all  thethings  in  life  I  counted  on:  a  sense  of  longing,  something  to  turn  over  and  over  in  my  mind,  and  that  clear,  slight-  ly  manic  vision  you  get  with  unrequited  love.  Each  line  I  drew  was  a  dedication  of  sorts.  Going  over  proofs  with  him,  choosing  type,  browsingthrough  books  of  paper  samples,  planning  and  design-  ing  gave  me  an  extreme  sense  of  heady  pleasure.  If  that  wasn't  love,  what  was?  ELL,  I'll  tell  you  what  was.  I  had  suffered  in  love  three  years  before,  and  it  had  not  stopped  haunt-  ing  me.  The  man  in  question  was  anastronomer  by  the  name  of  Jacob  Bailey.  Somewhere  in  the  heavens  is  a  galaxy  named  for  him:  the  Bailey  gal-  axy.  It  can  only  be  seen  through  an  ob-  servatory  telescope-he  showed  it  to  me  once  at  an  observatory  in  [REDACTED].  I  will  probably  never  see  it  again.  I  met  Jacob  in  the  line  of  work-the  way  I  felt  it  was  proper  to  meet  those  with  whom  you  will  have  a  profound  con-  nection.  I  was  doing  the  drawings  for  a  children's  book  on  Kepler,  and  Ja-  cob  was  checking  the  text  and  pictures  for  accuracy.  It  was  love  at  once-  hot,  intense,  brilliant,  and  doomed  to  fail.  When  it  did,  and  we  parted,  it  was  with  much  puzzlement  and  de-  spair.  Jacob  wanted  a  grand  event-  something  you  would  never  forget  but  not  something  to  live  with.  I  wanted  something  to  live  with.  A  love  affair  conducted  with  the  same  thrilling  rev-up  that  starts  a  Grand  Prix  race  usually  runs  its  course  and  stops.  When  the  Rice  &amp;  Bailey  show  was  over,  I  went  into  a  form  of  mourning.  My  friends  knew  I  had  suffered.  I  felt  that  being  crossed  in  love  had  changed  me,  and  it  had,  but  my  life  stayed  the  same.  I  worked  with  what  I  felt  was  new  depth,  and  carried  Jacob  around  as  a  secret  in  my  heart.  When  you  fall  in  love  like  that,  it  strikes  like  a  disease,  andyou  can  un-  derstand  why  nineteenth-century  poets  felt  they  were  either  sick  with  love  or  dying  of  it.  Divorced  people  sometimes  remember  the  joys  of  married  life  as  strains,  but  in  a  love  affair  just  the  re-  verse  is  true.  Since  marriages  are  final  and  love  affairs  are  open-ended,  you  tend  to  think  about  what  might  have  been  instead  of  what  was.  So  Irecalled  Jacob's  gorgeous  smile  but  not  his  cruel  streak.  I  remembered  the  resemblance  I  thought  he  bore  to  an  angel  but  not  his  frequent  nastiness  and  its  effect.  But  what  dif-  ference  does  it  make?  I  re-  membered.  My  life-my  inner  life-became  a  kind  of  rev-  erie,  and  it  would  not  have  shocked  me  had  I  found  that  in  some  dreamlike  state  I  had  created  a  little  shrine  to  Jacob  Bailey:  his  photograph,  my  book  on  Kepler,  a  parking  ticket  from  the  Bronx  Zoo,  the  little  pearl  earrings  he  gave  me.  The  ideaof  committed,  settled  love  is  as  remote  to  a  romantic  as  lunar  soil. GILBERT\xe2\x80\x99S  taste  in  music  is  that  of  a  tin-eared  high-  brow.  He  goes  to  the  opera.  He  likes  Mozart.  He  listens,  abstracted-  ly,  but  music  is  just  another  taste  to  him,  and  not  his  primary  taste  by  a  long  shot.  To  him  itis  a  sort  of  culti-  vated  white  noise,  like  glasses  tinkling  in  the  background  during  an  expensive  meal  at  a  restaurant.  Well,  I  can  hum  along  with  the  best  of  them,  but  my  reactions  are  hardly  cultivated.  Music  is  not  a  taste  to  me  but  a  craving--  something  I  must  have.  If  I  find  some-  thing  I  love  to  hear,  I  play  it  over  and  over  again.  Then  I  am  able  to  sit  on  a  bus  and  play  a  Brahms  quartet  in  my  mind  from  memory,  or  any  ofa  million  rock-and-roll  songs  I  love.  Music  be-  comes  foreground  then,  or  landscape  gardening.  It  alters  or  complements  my  mood.  On  windy  nights,  I  like  to  go  home,  light  a  fire,  and  flip  on  a  little  Boccherini,  just  to  warm  up.  By  the  time  I  sit  down  to  work,  another  mood  overtakes  me.  My  best  drawing  for  &quot;The  Art  of  Courtly  Love&quot;  was  done  listening  to  the  Everly  Brothers  singing  &quot;Sleepless  Nights.&quot;  When  that  palled,  I  started  on  Jerry  Lee  Lewis  singing  &quot;Another  Place,  Another  Time.&quot;  After  a  few  hours  of  work,  I  like  a  good  weep,  to  the  Harp  Quar-  tet.  The  thing  about  music  is  it's  all  your  own.  It  puts  you  into  a  complex  frame  of  mind  without  your  even  leav-  ing  the  house.  I  can  relive  long  mo-  ments  with  Jacob  Bailey  by  play-  ing  what  I  listened  to  when  he  was  around  or  what  I  wept  to  when  he  wasn't.  It  makes  your  past  come  back  to  you,  and  if  you  must  pinpoint  a  moment  in  your  life  you  can  say,  &quot;That  " b"was  in  1962,  when  'He's  a  Rebel,&quot;  by  the  Crystals,  was  a  hit,&quot;  or  &quot;\xc2\xa91969,  after  the  Dietrich  Fischer-Dieskau  con-  cert.&quot;  This  kind  of  music  worship  is  a  form  of  privacy,  and  a  great  aid  to  highly  emotional  people  who  live  in  a  hermetic  state-a  door  key  to  the  past,  an  inspiration.  Gilbert  and  I  worked  on  &quot;Courtly  Love&quot;  for  a  year,  and  after  it  was  sent  to  the  printer  we  began  on  the  poems  of  Marie  de  [REDACTED].  The  po-  ems,  since  they  are  about  love  in  vain,  made  me  think  of  Jacob  Bailey.I  would  break  from  work  to  stick  my  head  out  the  window  in  an  unsuccess-  ful  attempt  to  locate  the  Bailey  galaxy.  I  worked  accompanied  by  a  record  of  country  hymns.  My  favorite  was  called  &quot;Lone  Pilgrim.&quot;  A  man  comes  to  the  place  where  the  Lone  Pilgrim  is  buried,  and  hears  someone  calling  to  him.  It  is  the  Pilgrim,  who  tells  his  story.  Away  from  home,  far  from  his  loved  ones,  he  sickened  and  died.  I  played  one  stanza  over  and  over  again:     O  tell  my  companion  and  children  most  dear  To  weep  not  for  me  now  I'm  gone.  The  same  hand  that  led  me  through  scenes  most  severe  Has  kindly  assisted  me  home.  Since  I  was  thinking  about  Jacob  Bailey  anyway,  this  song  made  me  long  for  him.  I  knew  he  was  on  an  expedi-  tion  in  [REDACTED],  all  alone.  I  thought  of  the  scenes  most  se-  vere  he  might  be  pass-  ing  through  and  the  kind  hand  that  might  lead  himhome:  mine.  There  were  days  when  I  thought  I  saw  him  on  the  street.  My  heart  jumped:  I  thought  he  had  come  back.  But  it  never  was  Jacob.  I  wanted  to  go  up  to  the  man  I  thought  was  Jacob  and  shake  him  for  not  be-  ing,  to  shake  him  until  he  was.  There  were  times  when  I  could  not  believe  our  connection  had  been  broken.  That  was  love,  wasn't  it?  LL  this  time,  of  course,  I  con-  tinued  to  be  in  love  with  Gilbert.  What  I  thought  might  be  a  crush  had  turned  into  true  affection.  The  year  we  spent  working  on  &quot;The  Art  of  Court-  \xe2\x80\x98ei,,.'M-.l\xe2\x80\x941\xe2\x80\x99  ly  Love&quot;  had  given  me  ample  time  to  judge  his  character.  The  worst  you  could  say  of  himwas  that  he  was  prone  to  fits  of  abstraction.  In  these  states,  when  spoken  to  he  took  a  long  time  to  answer,  and  you  felt  he  was  being  rude.  When  he  was  concen-  trating,  papers  littered  his  desk,  caus-  ing  his  secretary  to  wonder  if  he  was  messy  at  home.  At  home  he  was  messy  when  abstracted.  Hisbed  went  un-  made.  Clothing  piled  upon  his  bed  in  the  shape  of  an  African  termite  nest.  Mail,  newspapers,  books,  and  cata-  logues  were  scattered  on  his  desk,  his  coffee  table,  in  the  kitchen.  But  the  result  of  his  abstraction  was  perfection.  Gilbert's  books  were  more  than  handsome;  they  were  noble.  His  energy  was  bountiful  and  steady,  and  he  gave  people  the  same  attention  to  detail  he  gave  to  books.  Gilbert  got  to  know  me,  too.  He  knew  when  I  was  tired  out,  or  when  I  had  faded  on  a  drawing  and  couldn't  see  what  form  it  was  taking.  He  knew  how  to  make  me  laugh,  what  sort  of  food  I  liked.  He  learned  to  have  a  cup  of  hot  tea  wait-  ing  for  me  at  the  end  of  aday,  and  he  remembered  things  I  told  him.  When  we  first  started  working,  I  de-  scribed  to  him  a  plate  that  I  had  seen  in  an  antique  shop  and  that  I  wanted  with  all  my  heart.  This  was  by  way  of  illus-  trating  a  point:  we  were  talking  about  impatience,  and  the  wisdom  of  hold-ing  off  from  obtainable  pleasures  as  a  test  of  will.  The  day,  one  year  later,  that  &quot;Courtly  Love&quot;  went  to  press,  the  second  cousin  to  the  plate  I  wanted  was  presented  to  me  by  Gilbert:  dark-  blue  Staffordshire,  with  flowers  all  around.  In  short,  he  was  just  like  me.  When  he  was  not  abstracted,  his  quarters  were  immaculate,  and  arranged  for  sheer  domestic  pleasure.  He  bought  flowers  when  people  came  to  dinner.  He  liked  to  take  a  long  time  over  a  meal.  I  in  turn  knew  how  to  cheer  him  when  he  became  cranky  and  dispirited.  I  knew  he  loved  rhubarb  pie,  so  the  first  of  theseason's  rhubarb  went  to  him.  But  best  of  all  we  were  perfect  work-  mates.  The  night  we  saw  the  finished  edi-  tion  of  &quot;Courtly  Love&quot;  we  went  out  to  dinner  to  celebrate,  and  drank  two  bottles  of  champagne.  Gilbert  walked  me  home,  and  on  the  way  he  stopped,  and  astonished  me  by  taking  me  into  his  arms  and  kissing  me.  I  was  giddy  and  drunk,  but  not  so  drunk  as  not  to  know  what  my  reactions  were.  He  had  never  so  much  as  brushed  my  sleeve,  and  here  we  were  locked  in  an  embrace  onan  empty  street.  When  he  released  me,  I  said,  &quot;Aren't  you  going  to  kiss  me  again?&quot;  &quot;Sometimes  if  you  work  very  closely  with  someone,  you  get  used  to  work-  ing,  and  don't  know  how  to  gauge  what  they  feel,&quot;  Gil-  bert  said.  In  my  apartment,  he  told  me  what  he  felt,  and  I  told  him.  Then  we  celebrated  our  first  night  together.  HE  solitary  mind  likes  to  reflect  on  the  pain  of  past  love.  If  you  are  all  alone,  it  gives  you  something  to  react  to,  a  sort  of  exer-  cise  to  keep  the  muscles  flexed.  I  knew  that  Gilbert  was  falling  in  love  with  me.  I  watched  it  hap-  pen.  And  Gilbert  knew  that  I  was  falling  in  love  withhim.  We  thought  we  had  been  fated  for  one  another,  but  actually  we  were  only  getting  used  to  good  romantic  luck.  It  is  not  so  often  that  well-matched  people  meet.  My  being  in  love  with  Gilbert  was  ac-" b"companied  by  a  sense  of  rightness  I  had  never  felt  before,  and  we  decided  that  we  wouldmarry  within  a  year.  But  when  I  worked  alone  in  my  apartment  I  was  consumed  with  a  de-  sire  to  see  Jacob  Bailey.  This  desire  was  sharp  as  actual  pain.  I  wasted  many  sheets  of  stationery  beginning  letters  to  him,  which  I  tore  up.  When  your  heart's  desire  is  right  within  your  reach,  what  else  is  there  to  do  but  balk?  I  pictured  my  oak  secretary  next  to  Gilbert's  Chinese  lamp,  my  books  next  to  his,  my  clothing  beside  his  in  the  closet.  All  my  friends  live  in  pairs,  ex-  cept  me.  I  had  only  fallen  in  love-  love  being  what  you  one  day  wept  over  in  private.  W  hat  did  you  do  with  love  that  didn't  end?  That  ceased  to  be  sheer  romance  and  moved  on  to  some-  thing  more  serious?  You  get  used  to  a  condition  of  long-  ing.  Live  with  it  over  time  and  it  be-  comes  part  of  your  household-the  cat  you  don't  take  much  notice  of  that  slinks  up  against  you  at  mealtime  or  creeps  onto  the  foot  of  your  bed  at  night.  You  cannot  fantasize  being  mar-  ried  if  you  are  married.  Married  to  Gilbert,  what  would  I  long  for?  I  would  not  even  be  able  to  long  for  him.  Woe  to  those  who  get  what  they  desire.  Fulfillment  leaves  an  empty  space  where  your  old  self  used  to  be,  the  self  that  pines  and  broods  and  re-  flects.  You  furnish  a  dream  house  in  your  imagination,  but  how  startling  and  final  when  that  dream  house  is  your  own  address.  W  hat  is  left  to  you?  Surrounded  by  what  you  wanted,  you  feel  a  sense  of  amputation.  The  feelings  you  were  used  to  abiding  with  are  use-  less.  The  conditions  you  established  for  your  happiness  are  met.  That  youthful  light-headed  feeling  whose  sharp  side  is  much  like  hunger  is  of  no  more  use  to  you.  You  long  for  someone  to  love.  You  find  him.  You  pine  for  him.  Sud-  denly,  you  discover  you  are  loved  in  return.  You  marry.  Before  you  do,  you  count  up  the  days  you  spent  in  the  homes  of  others,  in  kitchens,  at  dinner  tables,  putting  other  people's  children  to  bed.  You  have  basked  in  a  sense  of  domesticity  you  have  not  created  but  enjoy.  The  Lone  Pilgrim  sits  at  the  dinner  parties  of  others,  partakes,  sa-  vors,  and  goes  home  in  a  taxi  alone.  Those  days  were  spent  in  quest-  the  quest  to  settle  your  own  life,  and  now  the  searchhas  ended.  Your  imagined  happiness  is  yours.  There-  fore,  you  lose  your  old  bearings.  On  the  one  side  is  your  happiness  and  on  the  other  is  your  past-the  self  you  were  used  to,  going  through  life  alone,  heir  to  your  own  experience.  Once  you  commit  yourself,  everything  changes  and  the  rest  of  your  life  seems  to  you  like  a  dark  forest  on  the  property  you  have  recently  acquired.  It  is  yours,  but  still  you  are  afraid  to  enter  it,  won-  dering  what  you  might  find:  a  little  chapel,  a  stand  of  birches,  wolves,  snakes,  the  worst  you  can  imagine,  or  the  best.  You  take  one  timid  step  for-  ward,  but  then  you  realize  you  are  not  alone.  You  take  someone's  hand-Gil-  bert  Seigh's-and  strain  through  the  darkness  to  see  ahead. "