 b"MY  name  has  a  calm,  deliberate  sound-Margaret-but  from  the  start  I  was  called  Peggy,  and  a  Peggy  I  strove  to  become,  though  in  living  up  to  my  nickname  I  ended  up  being  untrue  to  myself.  Peggys  are  lively,  gregarious,  indepen-  dent,  a  little  unpredictable,  whereas  I'm  naturally  reserved  and  rather  seri-  ous-minded.  I  was  named  after  my  father's  mother,  and  as  a  child  I  felt  this  to  be  both  an  asset  and  a  liability.  My  father's  family,  the  Fishers,  were  pros-  perous,  but  my  mother's,  the  Norrises,  had  charm  and  good  looks.  Mother  had  seven  brothers  and  only  two  sis-  ters,  whose  names  went  to  my  older  sisters,  Alice  and  Ann.  I  didn't  mind  so  much  missing  out  on  those  names.  Both  my  Norris  aunts  became  nuns,  and  in  the  process  their  identities  got  dangerously  confused,  partly  because  for  some  reason  Aunt  Alice  elected  to  become  Sister  Ann  Marie,  and  Aunt  Ann  to  become  Sister  Alice  Ann.  I  say  &quot;for  some  reason&quot;  though  I  know  my  grandmother  had  a  hand  in  the  decisions,  and  my  Grandmother  Norris's  hand  was  a  heavy  one.  &quot;Franklin  can't  discuss  that-he's  under  My  father  has  three  sisters;  his  brother,  my  Uncle  Bill,  died  before  I  was  born.  My  Fisher  aunts  are  aggres-  sive,  worldly  women-or  they  were  in  the  days  when  we  saw  them  regularly;  twenty-five  years  ago  a  quarrel  to  end  all  quarrels  severed  our  relations  with  that  side  of  the  family.  I  was  fifteen  at  the  time  and  I  didn't  see  my  Grand-  mother  Fisher  till  ten  years  later,  when  my  sisters  and  I  paid  a  visit  to  what  proved  to  be  her  deathbed.  She  was  eighty-three  and  had  broken  her  hip  and  was  living  with  my  Aunt  Molly,  who  served  us  small  glasses  of  purple  wine  that  tasted  like  plain  grape  juice  and  that  said  all  there  was  to  say  about  what  Aunt  Molly  took  it  for  granted  the  three  of  us  had  turned  out  to  be,  though  grape  juice  was  in  no  way  in-  dicative  of  her  own  style,  which  im-  pressed  me.  She  wore  a  long-sleeved  black  wool  dress,  used  a  cigarette  hold-  er,  and  addressed  her  mother  affec-  tionately  as  &quot;Ma.&quot;  Her  living  room  was  done  in  shades  of  gray.  My  Grandmother  Fisher  didn't  know  what  to  make  of  the  three  lost  granddaughters  who  suddenly  turned  up  that  evening.  &quot;Tom's  girls,&quot;  she  kept  saying,  shaking  her  head.  She  was  a  mild  woman  who  gave  the  impres-  sion,  even  at  the  end  of  her  life,  of  be-  ing  generally  amused  by  things-by  all  things  equally-and  this  bothered  me  when  I  was  a  child.  As  her  namesake,  I  felt  I  should  have  been  singled  out,  but  she  hadn't  the  turn  of  heart  that  needs  to  play  favorites.  At  least  that's  how  I  see  it  now,  though  at  the  time  I  blamed  my  failure  to  attract  her  attention  on  the  fact  that  I  was  the  living  image  of  my  mother,  who  was  eternally  at  odds  with  the  Fisher  sis-  ters.  They  hadan  Irish  way  of  end-  lessly  and  pointlessly  finding  fault  and  they  made  my  mother  miserable.  As  the  sixth  in  a  family  of  ten,  she  hadn't  had  much  chance  to  find  her-  self,  or  even  to  begin  to  look.  In-  stead,  she  simply  took  as  her  own  the  Norris  family  image  of  fun-loving  ex-  troversion,  but  in  fact  my  mother  is  as  reticent  as  I  am  and  no  match  for  her  sisters-in-law,  who  were,  from  all  accounts,  merciless  in  their  teasing.  All  this  seemed  to  stand  in  the  way  of  my  endearing  myself  to  my  father's  mother,  and  though  I  understood  that  it  wasn't  my  fault,  I  minded.  I  was  a  Peggy  and  I  expected  to  bepre-  ferred,  but  that's  something  I've  man-  aged  only  to  a  limited  de-  gree,  and  in  the  matter  of  supreme  preference  I've  failed  altogether.  I've  never  been  married.  My  mother  likes  to  talk  of  all  the  boyfriends  I've  had,  and  though  she  exag-  gerates,  I've  had  my  fair  share.  But  I've  never  real-  ly  come  close  to  marrying  any  of  the  men  I've  loved.  They've  all  been  more  or  less  the  same  type-way-  ward  men,  in  need  of  a  Peggy  to  make  them  toe  the  line,  menwho  are  thrown  off  when  instead  of  making  demands  I  accept  whatever  I  get  in  the  way  of  love.  What  I've  gener-  ally  got  has  been  a  kind  of  grudging  attachment  that  somehow  precludes,  though  it  can  also  outlast,  love  it-  self.  I  lack  the  authority  thatI  see  other  people  call  on  in  themselves  as  natural-  ly  as  they  call  on  their  eyes  for  sight  or  their  lungs  for  breath.  I  never  cease  to  be  amazed  by  the  ease  with  which  someone  will  single-  mindedly  lay  claim  to  and  possess  someone  else.  I  my-  " b"self  invariably  see  both  sides  of  the  situation,  which  is  fatal  in  love,  where  to  admit  the  other's  doubts  is  to  set  that  person  free.  The  result  is  that  I've  never  even  been  able  to  pic-  ture  myself  married  ex-  cept  once,  and  the  man  in  question  was  some-  one  I  didn't  love.  For  that  matter,  Robert  Patch  didn't  love  me-  we  were  in  love  with  other  people-but  we'd  been  introduced  in  the  hope  that  we'd  hit  it  off  and  we  did,  famously  but  not  passionately,  though  had  the  timing  been  better  we  might  have  ended  up  togeth-  er,  maybe  even  been  happy.  I  remember  thinking,  This  is  what  you  do;  you  marry  a  Robert  Patch  and  have  a  pleasant  life  and  a  house  full  of  posses-  sions.  Robert  was  an  art  dealer,  and  we  used  to  spend  Saturdays  at  the  Parke-Bernet  Gal-  leries.  He  had  an  acquisitive  nature  and  my  qualms  with  respect  to  ownership  extend  even  toobjects,  but  in  other  ways  we  were  a  lot  alike,  both  ofus  much  gentler  than  the  characters  we  were  involved  with.  We  made  what  amounted  to  a  study  of  ourselves,  and  once  he  gave  me  a  kind  of  test,  one  of  those  psychological-game  quizzes,of  which  I  remember  only  the  first  ques-  tion:  &quot;W  ho  are  you?&quot;  Without  hesitation,  I  said,  &quot;Mar-  garet  Fisher.&quot;  Had  I  answered,  say,  &quot;Tom  Fisher's  daughter,&quot;  I'd  have  been  revealed  as  overly  dependent,  just  as  the  answer  &quot;I'm  a  lawyer&quot;-or  a  doctor,  or  a  teacher-would  have  in-  dicated  maturity,  a  sense  of  purpose,  etc.  By  simply  giving  my  name  I  avoided  the  issue,  at  least  in  Robert's  eyes.  &quot;Who's  asked.  &quot;Margaret  Fisher,&quot;  I  repeated.  He  was  nonplussed,  and  so  was  I.  I  hadn't  realizedthat  other  people's  names  aren't  necessarily  as  important  to  them  as  mine  is  to  me.     Margaret  Fisher?&quot;  he  AT  the  parochial  grammar  school  I  went  to,  my  mother  was  on  the  best  of  terms  with  the  nuns,  who  con-  sidered  her,  on  account  of  her  two  sisters,  one  of  them.  In  fact,  Mother  herself  almost  became  a  nun.  I  think  she  must  have  wanted  desperately  not  to  enter  the  convent  to  have  overcome  the  prejudice  in  favor  of  religious  life  that  prevailed  in  her  family,  where  it  represented  the  one  sure  road  to  suc-  cess.  But  Mother  was  much  prettier  than  her  two  sisters.  She  also  had  a  talent:  she  played  the  piano.  Work  as  a  music  teacher  opened  up  for  her,  and  through  her  teaching  she  saw  a  little  of  the  world,  but  the  idea  that  she  should  be  a  nun-that  it  was  the  best  thing  to  be-overshadowed  her  youth,  and  she  seems  never  to  have  taken  the  young  men  she  knew  seriously,  except  for  a  fellow  who,  ironically,  left  her  forthe  priesthood.  It  was  shortly  after  this  that  my  father  appeared  on  the  scene,  even  more  ironically,  for  he  was  an  ex-  seminarian,  which  of  course  looked  to  my  mother  like  destiny,  and  so  she  married  him.  But  her  glimpses  of  life  on  43616e616461Park  West  and  Riverside  Drive  had  given  her  expectations  that  Tom  Fisher  was  neither  equal  to  nor  interested  in.  My  father  is  like  his  mother,  mild  and  humorous,  with  no  great  ambitions  in  life,  no  lofty  dreams.  My  parents  made  each  other  unhap-  py,  and  Mother  often  said  she  was  sorry  she  hadn't  joined  the  convent. She  was  also  sorry  she  hadn't  named  me  [REDACTED],  after  herself.  That  she  didn't  was  because  the  name  had  come  to  her  arbitrarily.  She  was  the  third  daughter,  and  my  grandmother's  mother-in-law,  a  Julia,  had  decreed  that  thisgirl  must  also  be  a  Julia.  My  grandmother  refused,  but  her  defiance  stopped  short  of  pickinga  name  that  belonged  to  some  other  relative,  and  so  she  named  my  mother  after  a  suf-  fragette  she  happened  to  read  about  one  day  in  the  newspaper.  When  it  came  to  her  own  daughters,  Mother  was  re-  luctant  to  commit  any  one  of  them  to  a  name  that  brought  with  it  no  great  family  fortune  of  love,  but  as  time  went  on,  as  her  relations  with  the  Fishers  deteriorated  and  as  I  grew  to  look  more  and  more  like  her,  I  con-  stantly  heard  her  say,  &quot;I  was  never  so  sorry  about  anything  as  I  am  that  you  weren't  named  after  me.&quot;  I  had  no  such  regrets.  I  worshipped  my  mother,  but  the  name  [REDACTED]  never  appealed  to  me.  It's  too  emphatic;  it  calls  to  mind  the  kind  offace  that  stands  out  with-  out  being  beautiful,  a  face  with  a  sharp  nose,  or  lips  that  are  too  thick  or  too  thin.  But  even  now  that  my  mother  is  old  her  face  is  pretty  and  her  expres-  sion  is  open  and  loving,  and  it  makes  me  sad  to  think  that  her  own  mother  " b"was  so  indiscriminate  in  putting  a  name  to  that  face.  My  parents  and  my  sisters  and  I  lived  in  a  suburb  of  New  York  with  Grandmother  Norris,  whose  house  was  across  the  street  from  the  parish  church,  St.  John  the  Apostle,  In  its  day,  thirty  or  so  years  before  I  was  born,  the  house  had  been  comfort-  able  enough  and  the  street  picturesque-  ly  rural,  but  in  my  day  the  house,  the  street,  and  the  neighborhood  were  a  step  removed  from  squalor.  And  ma-  jestically  arrayed  on  that  crucial  step  was  St.  John's.  My  grandmother  more  than  basked  in  the  church's  reflect-  ed  glory,  she  traded  on  it.  She  was  an  admirable  woman  in  many  ways,  but having  raised  a  large  family  on  very  little  money  and  very  high  ideals  she  felt  entitled  in  her  old  age  to  put  her  own  interests  ahead  of  the  interests  of  anyone  else,  even  those  she  depended  on,  and  this  was  her  policy  with  respect  to  the  house  where  we  all  lived-in  dissatisfaction,  sometimes  in  despair.  She  wanted  to  end  her  days  there,  " b"which  was  understand-  able,  and  she  wanted  us  to  stay  with  her,  which  was  unfair,  but  stay  there  we  did,  in  the  shadow  of  the  church,  which  was  sup-  posed  to  compensate  for  the  beauty  and  order  that  were  missing  from  our  lives.  To  an  extent,  I  sup-  pose  it  did.  It  was  a  mag-  nificent  Gothic  building  with  twin  steeples,  high  bronze  doors,  and  broad,  immaculately  kept  lawns,  and  every  Monday  after  school  the  children  of  St.  John's  were  marched  over  there  for  perpetual-novena  devotions.  I  looked  for-  ward  to  Mondays.  My  mother  made  the  novena,  too,  and  afterwards  we  usually  went  shopping--  to  the  five-and-ten  for  thread,  or  buttons,  or  hooks  and  eyes;  to  the  knitting  store  for  yarn  or  instructions;  to  the  butch-  er  for  a  pound  of  round  steak  chopped;  to  the  bak-  ery  for  a  cake.  Sometimes  these  errands  produced  a  coloring  book  or  an  ice-cream  soda  for  me,  but  my  mother's  company  was  the  real  attraction.  I  usually  had  her  to  my-  self,  and  even  if  my  sisters  came  along,  my  prerogative  as  youngest  was  recognized,  and  I  clung  to  it;  I  clung  to  Mother.  Before  we  went  any-  where  after  novena,  she  always  had  to  discuss  my  sisters  and  me  with  our  teachers,  and  the  church-  yard,  which  had  swarmed  with  children,  would  be  empty  before  Sister  Hilde-  garde  or  Sister  Veronica  let  her  go.  And  I'd  be  uneasy,  for  those  talks  often  had  repercussions.  Out  of  aclear  blue  sky,  Sister  might  say  to  me  one  day,  &quot;I  hear  you're  quite  a  musi-  cian,&quot;  when  infact  I  hated  the  piano  and  never  practiced.  Or  if  I  wasn't  raising  my  hand  often  enough  in  class  I'd  beasked,  &quot;Where's  that  chatterbox  I've  been  told  about?&quot;  With  all  my  heart  I  wished  my  mother  had  kept  my  confidence,  and  the  depth  of  my  trust,  though  not  my  love,  began  to  ebb  as  a  result  of  her  indiscretion.  A  bare-  ly  perceptible  but  dangerous  breach  opened  up  between  us.  And  into  the  breach  walked  Sister  Ambrosine.  She  was  an  affected  nun  who  later  taught  high-school  French,  but  she  was  principal  of  St.  John's  for  six  of  the  eight  years  I  spent  there.  She  liked  to  keep  an  eye  on  everything  and  to  do  this  by  surprising  us,  but  on  the  after-  noon  I  have  in  mind,  or  for  that  mat-  ter  on  any  afternoon,  we  must  have  been  glad  enough  to  have  her  throw  open  the  classroom  door  and  stand  be-  fore  us,  Sister  Ambrosine  was  unpop-  ular  but  she  was  better  than  geography  or  spelling  or  arithmetic.  She  swept  into  the  room  and  over  to  the  desk  for  a  word  with  Sister  Dorothy,  the  fourth-grade  teacher;  then  Sister  Dorothy  stepped  down  and  Sister  Am-  brosine  stepped  up  onto  the  platform.  \xc2\xab&quot;Will  Peggy  Fisher  please  stand?&quot;  she  said.  Idid.  Sister  Ambrosine  said,  &quot;I  have  an  announcement  to  make.&quot;  I  was  an  obedient  child  and  seldom  got  into  real  trouble,  but  much  was  ex-  pected  of  me,  and  my  most  innocent  " b"acts  were  sometimes  construed  by  the  nuns  as  unworthy  of  my  connections.  I  stood  there  searching  my  soul,  but  there  was  no  way  I  could  have  an-  ticipated  or  protected  myself  against  what  Sister  Ambrosine  was  up  to.  She  said,  &quot;Peggy's  mother  has  always  been  sorry  she  didn't  name  her  little  girl  after  herself,  and  so  from  now  on  Peggy  Fisher  is  going  to  be  called  [REDACTED]  Fisher.&quot;  Had  I  been  stood  up  and  stripped  of  my  clothes  I  believe  the  shock  and  panic  would  have  been  less.  Naked  I'd  still  have  been  myself-maybe  all  the  more  so-but  without  my  name  I  was  rendered  null  and  void.  &quot;What's  Peggy's  new  name?&quot;  Sis-  ter  Ambrosine  asked  the  class.  &quot;[REDACTED],&quot;  they  shouted  back.  &quot;Be  seated,  [REDACTED],&quot;  Sister  Ambro-  sine  said.  I  marvel  now  at  that  child  who  quietly  sat  down  in  answer  to  the  name  that  wasn't  hers.  &quot;Good  after-  noon,  class,&quot;  Sister  Ambrosine  said.  She  stepped  from  the  platform  and  swept  out  of  the  room  again.  Sister  Dorothy  once  more  took  her  place  at  the  desk.  The  geography  or  the  arithmetic  was  resumed.  But  children  are  notoriously  cruel,  and  from  all  sides  I  was  taunted  by  the  whispered  &quot;[REDACTED]!&quot;  It  fol-  lowed  me  for  days.  &quot;Hello,  [REDACTED]!&quot;  &quot;Hello,  [REDACTED]  Fisher!&quot;  &quot;[REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  go  to  hell!&quot;  But  children  are  also  notoriously  forgetful.  And  blessedly  obstinate-I  refused  to  answer  to  the  new  name  or  to  write  it  on  my  homework  papers,  and  I  didn't  mention  the  incident  at  home,  probably  for  fear  of  provoking  something  irrevocable,  some  measure  that  would  be  legal  and  binding.  Nei-  ther  did  my  mother  bring  up  the  sub-  ject.  I  realize  now  that  Sister  Ambro-  sine  must  have  picked  up  a  chance  remark  and  taken  it  on  herself  to  set  things  straight-and  instead  put  a  bend  in  my  life  that  I've  never  succeeded  in  eliminating.  As  for  Sister  Dorothy,  either  she  saw  my  side,  or  she  didn't  care,  or  she  felt  Sister  Ambrosine  had  overstepped  the  mark-they  might  not  have  got  along;  feuds  flourish  in  con-  vents.  In  any  case,  she  never  made  an  issue  of  the  change  of  name.  As  far  as  my  classmates  were  concerned,  the  novelty  soon  wore  off-probably  they  had  second  thoughts,  too,  about  lining  themselves  up  with  Sister  Ambrosine.  Eventually,  everyone  reverted  to  Peg-  gy,  and  Peggy  I  was  forthe  rest  of  my  time  in  school.  After  I  finished  college,  I  worked  for  a  while  asa  typist.  We  were  rath-  er  high-class  typists,  the  four  other  girls  in  the  office  and  myself-all  col-  lege  graduates,  all  artistically  inclined,  and,  as  typists,  all  amateurs.  That  was  an  office  where  good  looks  and  nice  manners  were  excellent  credentials,  and  years  of  dealing  with  pretty  girls  and  their  typographical  errors-years,  too,  I  think,  of  private  disappointment  and  bad  luck-had  taken  their  toll  on  old  Miss  Foster,  the  woman  in  charge  of  us.  She  was  full  of  idiosyncracies,  and  soon  after  she  hired  me  she  took  exception  to  the  name  Peggy.  &quot;I  think  you  should  be  called  Margaret,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It  sounds  much  better.&quot;  At  first  my  full  name  made  me  a  little  uncomfortable,  but  then  it  began  to  grow  on  me,  even  to  ring  truer  than  Peggy,  and  so  I've  more  or  less  stuck  to  it.  When  I'm  asked  to  intro-  duce  myself  now  I  usually  say,  &quot;I'm  Margaret  Fisher,&quot;  and,  by  the  same  token,  with  people  I'm  close  toI  tend  to  abandon  nicknames  after  a  while.  Names  are  the  primary  images  we  re-  ceive  of  ourselves,  and  faulty  though  the  images,  inappropriate  though  the  names  may  be,I  take  them  seriously. "