 b"WATER  laid  out  the  streets  of  the  gray  capital,  and  day  after  day  the  rain  falls  into  place  along  the  pavements,  and  followsa  design  that  is  known  to  it,  natural  to  it,  and  older  than  the  first  buildings,  preserved  now  as  bones  in  reliquaries,  inside  stone  monuments  built  over  them  against  the  weather  of  the  latter  days.  North  of  the  mountains  and  the  inland  ocean,  with  its  long  seasons  of  low  skies,  the  city  began,  doubtless,  as  a  margin  of  driftwood  huts  gradually  outlining  the  shape  of  a  hand  or  hands,  where  a  river  meandering  through  wide  marshes  chose  many  ways  to  the  sea.  Ricks  of  branches.  In  time,  rafts.  Eventually  the  shore  haunters  brought  stone  down  the  river,  for  building  in  the  color  of  the  winter  sky,  and  the  flecked  hewn  granite  began  to  wander  at  the  water's  edge  like  hems  of  the  light.  The  original  settlements  along  the  waterline,  huddled  in  the  dark  win-  ters,  must  have  been  the  stick  nests  of   clusters  of  hunters  who  pursued  the  retreating  glaciers  northward,  killing  along  the  newborn  pastures.  Deep  in  the  ice  a  goddess  of  spring  kept  mov-  ing  toward  them.  They  called  her  with  drums.  They  listened  for  her  heart  and  heard  soft  hoofbeats  in  their  sleep.  The  surviving  legends  all  tell  of  journeys,  leading  out  of  earlier  jour-  neys,  between  hidden  skies.  The  oldest  lyric  fragment  that  has  come  down  to  us,  in  the  principal  archaic  lan-  guage  of  those  regions,  likens  the  dome  of  heaven  to  an  upturned  boat  in  which  we  will  embark  once  again,  at  the  end  of  time.  But  that  is  a  relative-  ly  late  production.  It  is  clear  from  the  legends  that  the  first  arrivals  came  on  foot:  the  travellers  in  all  the  ancient  stories  walk.  There  are  reflected  glimpses  in  those  narratives  of  other  roofs,  by  former  shores:  suns  remote  forever,  older  rivers,  perhaps  even  the  Nile  [REDACTED]  with  its  seven  mouths,  sev-  en  fingers,  seven  candle  flames.  The  stone  fagades  still  float  in  the  rain.  In  the  course  of  my  visit  it  fell  incessantly,  beating  on  its  temporarily  buried  places,  and  the  days  shortened,  one  by  one,  with  a  measured  sudden-  ness.  I  was  beginning  to  think  I  had  learned  all  I  could  learn  for  the  time  being  of  the  nomadic  legends  of  that  region  and  their  recurrence  in  the  later  levels  of  the  language.  I  knew  more  of  the  dominant  archaic  tongue  than  of  the  current  local  one,  but  I  knew  neither  of  them  well:  it  was  a  rare  phrase,  from  any  period,  that  seemed  transparent  to  me,  and  I  was  more  conversant  with  the  words'  transfor-  mations  than  with  their  sounds.  But  the  directors  of  the  national  library  be-  haved  toward  me  as  though  my  in-  terest,  in  itself,  were  a  contribution  to  their  archives:  they  put  their  entire  collection,  and  all  the  means  of  con-  sulting  it,  at  my  disposal,  and  the  most  celebrated  philologist  and  liter-  ary  historian  in  the  capital,  who  spoke  my  language  as  his  own,  guided  me  through  the  centuries  of  what  I  thought  of  as  evidence.  As  sometimes  happens  when  one  is  helped  lucidly  but  without  interference,  his  response  to  my  in-  terest,  the  material  he  produced,  the  order  in  which  he  provided  me  with  it,  and  his  own  commentaries  gave  me  a  sense  of  our  having  worked  together  be-  fore.  It  was  plain  from  the  start  that  he  under-  stood  what  I  was  look-  ing  for-grasped  it  per-  haps  more  clearly  than  I  did,  since  he  held  in  his  mind,  in  detail,  the  whole  extant  body  of  texts,  whereas  I  had  only  an  intimation  of  what  I  believed  must  be  there.  And  despite  the  difference  in  our  ages  (at  least  a  gen-  eration,  and  probably  more),  years  and  exact  learning  had  neither  raised  an  insuperable  barrier  between  us  nor  rendered  him  brittle:  he  could  not  only  guess  what  would  amuse  us  both,  in  the  morning  newspapers  as  well  as  in  the  ironic  turns  of  the  recorded  past,  but  from  our  first  ses-  sion  onward  he  was  able  to  put  in  my  way,  one  after  the  other,  re-     " b"semblances,  associations,  traces,  clues,  the  com-  ponents  of  recognitions,  which  fed  and  warmed  my  enthusiasm.,  We  had  almost  fin-  ished  going  through  his  compilation  of  those  contemporary  docu-  ments  he  considered  most  relevant  to  my  in-  terest.  We  had  pro-  ceeded  in  an  order  that  was  roughly  chrono-  logical,  and  these  were  the  last  of  the  materials  he  had  set  out  several  weeks  earlier  for  me  to  study.  I  felt  the  weight  of  the  approaching  win-  ter,  and  was  looking  forward  to  leaving  and  taking  with  me  the  mass  of  notes,  to  try  to  find  out  what  they  meant  to  me  when  I  had  got  them  back  to  where  I  was  living.  One  morning,  as  a  ges-  ture  of  anticipation,  I  went  to  the  center  of  the  cityto  get  my  air  ticket,  just  to  have  it,  even  though  I  meant  to  leave  the  date  open  for  a  few  more  days.  I  walked,  though  it  was  raining  even  harder  than  usual.  The  traffic  splashed  and  roared  along  the  winding  ave-  nues,  metal-boxed  processions  hurtling  through  smoke,  hesitant  chain  saws  in  water.  I  tried  to  keep  to  the  back  streets,  where  there  were  almost  no  vehicles,  though  Irisked  getting  lost,  since  none  of  the  streets  ran  parallel  but  branched  off  from  each  other-  systems  of  veins.  The  closer  I  drew  to  the  center  of  the  city,  the  emptier  the  back  streets  became.  Some  blocks  were  closed  to  all  motor  traffic,  with  vertical  lengths  of  iron  pipe  rising  at  intervals  from  the  asphalt.  In  one  such  curving  passage,  two  waiters  under  a  bare  awn-  ing  frame  were  carrying  stone  table-  tops  indoors.  Down  the  middle  of  the  narrow  street  an  old  woman  was  moving  like  a  dark  mollusk:  her  back  was  the  same  shape  and  color  as  her  umbrella,  and  her  legs  appeared  to  have  shrunk  into  the  rest  of  her.  She  was  carrying  a  patent-leather  shopping  bag.  The  rain  ran  off  her  and  dripped  at  her  feet.  She  was  walking  so  slowly  that  I  imagined,  at  first,  that  there  was  something  the  matter  with  her.  I  thought  I  was  remembering  her  but  could  not  recall  having  seen  her  move.  It  made  me  feel  thatI  was  walking  too  fast.  The  rain  travelled  down  her  coat  and  shopping  bag  rapidly,  pausing  but  indifferent,  as  on  a  pane  of  glass:  the  gait  of  a  mumbled  rite.  I  was  anx-  ious  to  get  to  the  travel  agency  and  then  on  to  the  library,  but  I  felt  re-  luctant  to  splash  past  her  as  though  she  were  not  there.  For  an  instant  it  seemed  thatI  should  do  something  for  her,  yet  I  knew  the  next  moment  that  the  impulse  was  vain  and  absurd:  she  was  certainly  not  helpless;  there  was  no  plea  in  her  bent  carriage,  no  de-  spondency  in  the  shuffle  of  her  boots,  nothing  in  the  set  of  her  that  would  have  recognized  anything  resembling  pity.  I  slowed  down,  as  I  passed,  and  turned  to  nod  to  her.  The  waiters  had  gone  in;  we  were  alone  on  the  street  as  on  a  country  road.  I  looked  for  a  moment  under  the  umbrella  and  the  dark  hatbrim,  into  a  face  weathered  with  age,  brown  as  wood,  gaunt  and  merry.  Bright  blue  eyes.  She  looked  at  me,  smiling,  perhaps  laughing.  I  had  assumed  that  she  was  doing  her  shop-  ping;  the  sight  of  her  face  made  it  seem  more  likely  that  she  was  simply  taking  her  usual  walk,  inspecting  part  of  her  estate,  as  she  had  been  doing  for  longer  than  anyone  there  would  remember.  I  was  about  to  greet  her,  but  hesitated  and  said  nothing:  I  had  been  looking  at  her  out  of  my  own  language,  and  suddenly  was  overtaken  not  only  by  the  awkwardness  and  em-  barrassment  with  which  I  spoke  the  language  of  that  city  but  also  (I  real-  ized  only  after  I  had  gone  past,  and  left  the  street)  by  an  uncertainty  asto  what  phase  of  the  language,  from  what  age,  was  properly  hers  and  would  be  correct,  if  I  were  to  address  her.  I  nodded,  I  heard  the  rain,  above  the  sounds  of  the  city.  IWAS  late  getting  to  the  library.  For  the  past  week  and  more,  my  mentor  and  I  had  been  meeting  in  what  was  called  the  refectory.  The  materials  that  he  had  assembled  for  me  to  study  had  overflowed  his  own  marigold-yellow  office  in  the  interior  of  the  rambling  edifice.  We  had  moved  to  a  table  by  itself  at  the  far  end  of  a  reading  room,  but  we  could  not  talk  freely  there.  One  day  we  were  invited  to  the  director-in-chief's  office,  a  spacious  eighteenth-century  room  with  huge  windows  of  square  leaded  panes  evenly  filled  with  the  gray  light  above  the  harbor:  that  side  of  the  building  faced  onto  a  margin  of  shrubbery  and  a  quay  where  a  large  warship  was  moored.  The  director  sat  with  the  light  behind  him.  I  had  met  him  at  the  beginning  of  my  visit;  he  had  been  amiable,  helpful,  and  lofty.  His  manner  to  me,  when  I  entered  his  office,  was  deferential  and  friendly,  as  though  in  the  interval  we  had  seen  a  great  deal  of  each  other.  Another  man  was  sitting  beside  him,  near  the  desk  " b"facing  us,  in  the  light,  wearing  a  gray-  blue  gabardine  overcoat  and  a  hat.  He  was  introduced  to  me  as  one  of  their  best-known  authors,  a  man  whom  the  director  had  particularly  wanted  me  to  meet,  he  said-because  of  my  interest  in  their  literature,  on  the  one  hand,  and  because,  on  the  other,  his  visitor  had  recently  acquired  a  reputation  as  a  songwriter.  The  man  was  cordial,  featureless,  his  voice  toneless,  his  ques-  tions  and  remarks-I  thought-unlit.  Neither  of  the  reasons  given  for  our  introduction  seemed  to  account  for  it.  I  wondered  whether  we  must  re-  sign  ourselves-whether  I  must  resign  myself-to  being  interrupted  by  a  series  of  such  well-meant  (perhaps)  but  pointless  diplomatic  encounters;  my  friendthe  philologist  thought  not.  As  we  returned  along  the  corridor,  he  explained  to  me,  in  his  glancing  but  incisive  fashion,  that  I  had  been  re-  paying  a  favor.  My  friend  had  told  the  director-in-chief  that  we  needed  more  room  and  had  suggested  the  re-  fectory,  which  was  not  in  use.  The  director  had  hastened  to  comply-he  was  more  or  less  bound  to  do  so  with  any  request  coming  from  my  friend.  But  the  invitation  to  his  office  had  been  (simple  sociability  apart)  a  re\xc3\xa9stab-  lishment  of  the  director's  position  of  authority,  after  the  favor  he  had  granted.  It  had  served  to  remind  me-  and  consequently  my  learned  friend-  of  my  obligation.  It  had  allowed  the  director-who  also  occupied  a  high  post,  and  entertained  further  ambi-  tions,  in  the  Ministry  of  Culture-to  put  on  a  small  show  of  his  own  im-  portance  for  the  popular  author  while  seeming  to  flatter  him.  My  friend  did  not  think  that  the  performance  would  be  required  twice,  and  (in  exchange)  we  would  have  the  refectory  to  work  in  for  the  remainder  of  my  visit,  and  we  would  have  it  to  ourselves.  He  was  waiting  for  me  there,  when  I  arrived,  by  taxi,  with  my  dateless  air  ticket.  I  hurried  through  the  reading  room  in  my  wet  coat,  and  through  the  small  Gothic  door  at  the  end  of  it,  and  shut  that  behind  me,  in  the  huge  som-  bre  hall,  with  a  longdeep  breath  and  a  moment's  sense  of  homecoming  such  asI  had  not  felt  in  the  place-or  had  not  noticed-before.  The  high  win-  dows,  here,  were  made  of  much  small-  er  panes  than  those  in  the  director's  office.  They  were  narrower  and  long-  er,  the  frames  rising  into  stone  trefoils  and  sharply  pointed  arches.  Just  above  them  were  the  massive  transverse  beams,  the  lowest  level  ofthe  elaborate  nest  of  rafters  disappearing  into  the  darkness  of  the  ceiling.  Neither  the  function  of  the  hall  nor  its  history  was clearly  defined.  Part  of  the  building,  apparently,  had  once  been  a  monastery,  which  had  been  almost  wholly  de-  molished.  Sections  of  the  library,  much  later,  had  been  built  in  imitation  of  the  earlier  structure-or  rather,  in  imita-  tion  of  drawings,  themselves  ancient,  of  its  ruins.  A  row  of  venerable,  faded,  ragged  flags  on  long  poles  projected  over  the  room  from  the  stone  pilasters  between  the  windows.  They  were  older  than  the  hall,  and  retained  a  stillness  of their  own.  The  polished  surfaces  of  the  two  enormous  parallel  tables  flowed  out  of  the  shadows  at  the  far  end  of  the  hall,to  fill  with  the  cold  light  of  the  northern  morning,  and  appear  to  be  made  of  it.  At  the  near  end  of  the  table  on  my  left,  fixed  and  bathed  in  that  same  light,  were  the  piles  of  papers  and  folders  that  my  friend  and  I  had  been  using-I  was  startled  to  realize  how  much  of  my  own  unfin-  ished  work  I  had  left,  day  and  night,  in  that  relatively  public  place.  Yet  not  so  public  either,  I  reminded  myself,  thinking  of  the  locked  door,  the  key  in  my  pocket,  and  my  friend  sitting  there  waiting,  reflecting  the  glassy  ta-  ble  and  the  spread-out  papers.  He  ap-  peared  not  to  have  noticed  that  I  was  late,  and  I  did  not  have  a  chance  to  ask  him  how  long  he  had  been  wait-  " b"ing:  he  brushed  aside  my  apologies,  smiling  about  something  else.  He  said  that  there  was  something  he  had  been  preparing  for  me  and  for  which  our  work  until  then  might  be  considered  a  background.  He  referred,  in  a  rapid  summary,  to  the  particular  circum-  stances  of  historic  scholarship  in  the  last  century-at  the  end  of  which  he  had  been  born.  I  had  considered,  and  in  fact  at  one  point  remarked  upon,  the  irony  of  our  studying  the  early  texts  and  the  older  reverberations  reaching  us  through  them,  in  the  echoing  hall  that  had  been  built,  in  emulation  of  the  Gothic  age  (a  time  far  more  recent  than  the  oldest  of  our  texts),  at  the  very  period  when  the  surviving  motifs  from  the  Gothic  era  and  earlier  were  vanishing,  just  as  in-  terest  and  inquiry  were  first  revealing  how  swiftly  and  completely  they  were  receding.  He  referred  me  to  some  of  the  most  ancient  neo-nomadic  frag-  ments  and  travellers'  songs,  and  read  a  few  passages  aloud  to  me  several  times  so  that  I  would  catch  the  cadence  of  the  archaic  metre-the  foot,  the  cadence  itself,  he  insisted,  even  though,  as  I  knew,  the  meaning  of  a  number  of  the  words,  in  those  fragments,  was  now  lost,  probably  forever,  and  the  actual  pronunciation  was,  to  an  un-  certain  degree,  conjecture.  He  left  me  studying  the  texts  that  he  had  just  read  aloud,  and  a  commentary  on  cer-  tain  of  their  allusions,  and  told  me  that  he  would  be  back  later.  I  was  used  to  working  alone  in  the  high,  empty  hall,  where  the  shuffling  papers,  the  pencils  on  the  table,  and  my  breath  echoed  and  re\xc3\xa9choed,  and  I  paid  no  attention  to  how  long  he  was  gone.  The  clock  in  the  tower  was  striking  as  he  opened  the  door  again,  but  I  had  not  noticed  when  it  began  to  strike,  and  so  could  not  count  the  strokes.  There  were  two  small  boys  with  him,  whom  I  could  not  at  first  tell  apart,  except  that  one  was  slightly  more  blond  than  the  other.  They  came  in  without  speaking,  and  the  boys  stood  looking  up  into  the  raft-  ers,  even  after  my  friend  had  told  them  to  come  to  the  table  and  take  off  their  coats.  They  did  neither.  One  after  the  other  he  led  them  over  to  me,  the  blonder  of  the  two  first,  and  intro-  duced  us,  in  their  language,  of  course,  and  they  held  out  their  small  hard  hands.  I  could  read  no  expression  in  either  of  their  faces.  They  remained  be-  tween  me  and  the  windows.  My  friend  told  them  to  sit  down  wherever  they  pleased,  on  one  of  the  benches,  near  the  piles  of  papers.  The  one  whose  hair  was  darker  sat  down  in  front  of  me,  with  the  table  and  the  open  books  and  notebooks  between  us;  his  eyes  ranover  them,  and  over  me--my  hands,  my  pencil,  my  face-with  the  same  detached  alertness.  The  other  boy  sat  down  at  a  bench  at  the  far  table,  nearer  the  windows.  He  was  turned  toward  us,  but  still  looking  up  at  the  shadows  in  the  ceiling,  and  the  files  of  flags  retreating  into  the  shadows.  They  were  twins,  my  friend  ex-  plained  to  me  rapidly,  in  my  own  language,  and  he  instructed  me  to  sit  still  and  say  nothing.  He  began  to  talk  to  the  boy  sitting  opposite  me,  cour-  teously,  respectfully-as  he  addressed  everyone,  and  as  he  would  have  spo-  ken  to  someone  of  his  own  age.  He  told  the  boy  that  he  had  been  thinking  a  great  deal  about  the  poems  that  the  boy  had  told  him  (the  word  &quot;tell,&quot;  in  that  language,  means  both  &quot;recount&quot;  and  &quot;chant&quot;')  at  their  last  meeting,  and  that  he  was  as  interested  in  them  as  ever,  and  would  be  grateful  if  I  could  hear  some  of  them.  The  boy  said  nothing,  but  looked  at  me.  My  friend  asked  him  whether  he  remembered  those  poems,  and  the  boy  said  that  of  course  he  did.  And  others?  Yes,  the  boy  said,  there  were  many.  Would  he  tell  us  one  about  the  dark  traveller?  He  was  in  all  of  them,  the  boy  said.  Tentatively,  as  though  pronouncing  " b"the  first  phrase  of  a  foreign  language  to  a  native,  my  friend  quoted  a  few  words,  an  opening.  Something  to  do  with  the  echoes  of  a  foot  on  ice.  The  boy  sighed,  looked  up  past  us  at  the  wall  opposite  the  windows,  and  began  to  hum  and  pat  the  table  with  the  palm  of  his  hand.  Then  he  started  to  recite.  His  voice  was  pitched  like  the  string  of  an  instrument,  on  which  the  words  were  played  at  intervals.  He  hummed  between  them,  and  chanted  them  as  they  came,  shaping  them  to  fit  a  pattern  that  was  recognizable  but  never  quite  predictable.  The  poem  was  a  ballad  of  some  kind,  or  so  I  thought,  though  it  did  not  seem  to  keep  to  the  metrical  form  of  any  ballad  I  knew  in  that  tongue-or  in  my  own.  Missing  many  of  the  words,  as  I  did,  there  were  whole  passages  I  could  not  catch,  but  felt  as  though  I  were  following  at  a  distance;  then  a  piece  of  narrative  would  emerge,  and  disappear  again-  someone  walking  in  a  mist-and  I  could  not  be  sure  whether  the  sense  kept  escaping  me  because  of  my  in-  adequate  knowledge  of  the  language,  or  because  of  the  boy's  pronunciation,  or  because  the  poem  itself  was  diffi-  cult.  As  it  was:  full  of  sudden  turns,  knotted  phrases,  kennings,  allusions  to  episodes  and  characters  unknown  to  me.  The  story,  orthe  parts  of  it  that  I  could  catch,  told  of  the  dark  trav-  eller's  encounters  with  a  series  of  lights  and  a  gleaming  otter,  on  the  marshes;  of  his  arrival  at  a  frozen  fortress,  with  a  fountain  of  ice;  of  meetingswith  helpers  (the  otter  may  have  been  one  of  these);  and  a  fight  with  the  first  of  the  ice  giant's  dogs.  The  traveller  relied  on  the  help  of  spirits,  some  of  whose  names  he  did  not  know,  some  of  whom  he  had  en-  countered  on  earlier  occasions,  in  hu-  man  shape.  He  transformed  himself,  for  protection,  once  into  a  cloud,  once  into  something  whose  name  I  did  not  understand,  in  which  he  was  frozen  for  some  time-and  there  again  I  lost  the  thread.  'The  idiom  of  the  poem  was  contemporary-as  nearly  as  I  could  tell.  I  could  detect  neither  archaisms  nor  literary  usages-in  fact,  it  seemed  to  me  that  the  language  was  not,  in  the  usual  sense,  even  literate:  I  could  make  out  certain  ungrammatical,  &quot;incorrect&quot;  locutions  of  the  current  street  language,  and  bits  of  recent  slang.  Once  or  twice  I  thought  I  heard  echoes  of  a  popular  song  a  few  years  old,  but  I  was  not  certain  of  that.  I  would  havebeen  interested  in  the  performance  however  crude  it  was,  but  in  fact  it  was  presented  with  pure  authority,  and  from  the  start  two  things  about  it  impressed  me  above  all.  First,  the  poetic  power  of  the  words,  even  when  I  did  not  understand  them.  And  then,  through  the  poem's  sound  and  urgency,  the  distant  but  unmistakable  beat  of  those  same  ancient  fragments  that  my  friend  had  been  reading  aloud  to  me  earlier  in  the  morning.  Excited  and  alien,  doubting  even  what  I  thought  I  understood,  I  must  have  been  told  it  in  a  number  of  different  ways  before  I  grasped  the  fact  that  the  dark  trav-  eller,  the  central  figure  in  the  apparently  endless  poem,  was  the  second  toeof  the  left  foot,  who  had  been  called  The  Black  Toe  ever  since  he  had  been  frozen.  But  whose  left  foot?  The  other  twin  listened,  without  a  sound  or  a  change  of  expression.  The  recitation  came  to  an  end-or  a  pause.  My  friend  thanked  the  boy  and  asked  him  whether  that  was  the  end  of  the  poem.  The  boy  said  no;  it  was  just  where  he  wanted  to  stop  for  a  while.  I  saw  that  my  friend  had  been  taking  rapid  notes,  in  a  phonetic  shorthand  partly  of  his  own  invention:  I  recalled,  as  though  noticing  a  coincidence,  that  it  enabled  him  to  write  the  sounds  of  the  language  at  each  known  phase  of  its  development,  and  I  found  myself  glancing  across  at  the  symbols,  trying  to  see  whether  I  could  read  them.  He  saw  me  looking,  pushed  some  of  the  pages  toward  me,  and  took  a  small  tape  recorder  out  of  a  shoulder  bag.  He  be-  gan  to  explain  its  purpose  and  operation  to  the  boy,  who  looked  at  the  object  without  obvious  interest.  My  friend  demonstrated  the  use  of  the  machine,  talking  into  it,  playing  back  his  own  voice,  distant  and  hollow  in  the  echoing  hall,  and  both  boys  laughed.  He  re-  corded  their  laughter  and  played  it  back,  the  last  seconds  of  it-a  tail  van-  ishing  through  a  doorway.  He  asked  the  twin  who  had  been  reciting  whether  he  would  tell  a  poem  into  the  recorder,  and  the  boy  said  nothing,  stared  at  him,  picked  up  one  of  the  pencils,  and  began  to  copy  one  of  the  shorthand  symbols  over  and  over  on  the  margin  ofa  page  of  notes.  The  other  twin  looked  across,  from  the  far  table,  and  watched;  though  they  were  not  facing  each  other,  both  of  them  laughed  at  the  same  moment.  My  friend  told  them  that  it  would  take  him  a  minute  or  two  to  prepare  the  tape  recorder.  He  said  it  as  an  in-  vitation,  as  though  the  operation  of  the  machine  might  be  something  that  they     " b"would  like  to  watch-and  they  did,  but  theykept  their  distance.  They  be-  gan  to  talk  to  each  other,  not  whole  sentences  but  phrases,  allusions,  half  of  them  in  whispers,  making  each  oth-  er  laugh.  I  understood  little  of  what  they  said,  and  in  my  own  language  asked  my  friend  what  they  were  talk-  ing  about.  He  told  me  that  most  of  it  escaped  him,  too,  as  the  boys  meant  it  to.  It  was  a  semi-secret  language,  which  they  made  up  as  they  went  along.  But  he  said  that  in  any  case  they  were  alluding  to  things  they  alone  knew:  family  circumstances,  street  games,  school.  The  machine  did  not  seem  to  be  running  satisfac-  torily,  or  my  friend  had  not  mastered  its  controls.  It  clicked  and  whirred  and  burst  into  passages  of  frantic  gab-  bling-glimpses  of  treble  multitudes  in  panic-stricken  flight,  old  haste  of  dry  water-and  while  he  stopped  it  and  started  it  hespoke  to  me  rapidly  in  my  language,  as  though  discussing  the  recorder,  explaining  to  me  that  the  twins  came  from  a  mountainous  re-  gion  farther  north;he  avoided  saying  the  name  of  the  place,  so  that  they  would  not  know  we  were  talking  about  them,  but  I  noticed  them  listening  to  the  strange  language,  while  they  continued  to  make  a  game  out  of  their  own.  Their  mother  had  been  a  young  woman  from  that  region  who  had  come  to  the  city  as  a  child,  with  her  parents,  during  the  war,  and  had  re-  turned  to  the  country  some  years  later,  with  a  man  about  whom  not  much  was  known  except  that  he  had  been  a  legendary  figure  in  the  resistance.  He  had  died,  there  in  the  mountains,  be-  fore  the  twins  were  born,  and  their  mother  had  brought  them  up  alone.  No  one  had  yet  determined  their  ex-  act  age,  but  they  were  thought  to  be  about  nine.  Their  mother,  too,  had  died,  some  years  before  our  meeting,  and  the  twins  had  beenhoused  for  a  time  at  a  farm  of  some  relatives  of  hers,  in  that  region  but  at  a  distance  from  their  earlier  home;  later  they  had  been  brought  to  their  maternal  grandparents,  in  the  city.  There  they  had  lived  for  a  year,  without  being  sent  to  school:  fed  and  clothed  ade-  quately,  allowed  to  run  in  the  streets-  until  their  existence  came  to  the  no-  tice  of  the  authorities,  who  looked  into  their  situation  and  set  about  resolving  what  they  described  as  the  problem  of  the  boys'  education.  The  twins  had  a  rudimentary  ability  to  read  and  write,  picked  up  at  home  from  their  mother  and  from  observation  of  their  elders:  they  were  quick  and  alert  and  remem-  bered  what  they  chose  to.  But  in  the  grade  they  had  been  put  they  were  several  crucial  years  older  than  the  city  children  whose  formal  education  was  more  advanced  than  theirs.  The  au-  thorities  waxed  anxious  over  the  boys'  associates:  they  wanted  to  make  sure  that  the  twins  would  be  able  to  find  friends  their  own  age.  They  feared  that  the  differences  of  background,  of  so-  phistication,  would  isolate  and  further  retard  the  boys'  assimilation.  They  need  not  have  troubled  themselves.  The  twins  were  soon  running  what  amount-  ed  to  a  gang  of  their  own-posing  new  problems  for  the  anxious  educators.  Their  schooling  requireda  special  ar-  rangement:  the  twins  sat  through  an  hour  or  two,every  day,  of  ordinary  classes,  never  called  on  for  answers,  though  much  of  the  teaching,  whether  or  not  they  wereaware  of  the  fact,  was  directed  at  them,  asat  a  pair  of  silent  judges.  And  a  tutor  was  found  for  them,  ostensibly  to  help  them  catch  up  with  the  studies  of  the  children  their  own  age-or  what  their  age  was  as-  sumed  to  be.  He  was  a  man  acquainted  with  the  region  where  they  had  grown  up-a  student  of  it,  indeed,  who  had  been  spending  his  summers  there  for  over  a  decade-and  he  understood  the  dialect,  which  the  twins  still  spoke  with  their  grandparents.  He  got  along  well  with  the  boys,  was  more  interested  in  them  than  in  their  schooling,  and  it  was  he-among  those  responsible  for  the  boys'  education-who  had  first  heard  the  poems.  He  had  thought  them  remarkable,  and  had  brought  them  to  the  attention  of  some  of  his  learned  and  literary  acquaintances,  who  had  shared  his  enthusiasm;  it  was  in  this  way  that  my  friend  the  philologist  had  first  heard  them.  He  told  me  that  the  boy  had  at  one  time  made  poems  in  the  regional  dialect  as  well,  but  apparently  had  not  done  so  now  for  some  time,  and  no  one  was  certain  whether  he  remembered  them.  &quot;But  are  they  really  his  own?&quot;  I  asked.  My  friend  gave  me  an  oddly  blank  look.  &quot;Does  he  make  them  up  himself?&quot;  &quot;We  don't  know  that,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;We  don't  know  at  all.&quot;  &quot;And  the  metre,  the  ballad  form,  the  rhythm,  those  echoes  ofthe  ancient  poetry?&quot;  My  friend  shrugged.  He  said  that  none  of  those  things  had  been  en-  countered  by  the  folklorists  in  that  re-  gion-or  anywhere  else.  He  wanted  to  record  whatever  he  could  of  those  poems,  he  said,  before  the  twins  were  fully  literate.  There  would  be  time  to  analyze  them  later.  He  seemed  to  have  the  recorder  working  to  his  satisfaction,  and  he  asked  the  twin  who  was  sitting  at  our  table  whether  we  could  hear  some  more  poetry,  with  the  machine  listen-     " b"ing.  The  twins  had  been  leaning  toward  each  other,  laughing  and  whispering  together;  now  the  one  who  had  recited  sat  back  again,  looked  up  into  the  dark-  ness,  took  a  long  breath,  and  began  to  hum.  My  friend  switched  on  the  re-  corder.  The  boy  started  to  pat  the  table,  sometimes  with  the  palm  of  his  hand,  sometimes  with  his  fingertips.  Then  the  words  came,  the  chanted  beats,  in  a  voice  deeper  than  the  boy  used  in  talk.  It  was  the  same  landscape  as  before-a  low  sky,  an  ice  fountain.  Far  away  on  the  horizon,  a  fire,  under  the  night:  the  house  of  a  planet  burning.  The  Black  Toe  still  unfrozen  in  this  poem;  not  yet  named,  calling  toward  the  fire.  A  water  flame  coming  to  help  him,  out  of  the  sky.  The  boy  stopped.  The  philologist  stopped  the  recorder,  rewound  it,  and  started  to  play  back  what  he  had  just  taped.  We  heard  a  crackle  of  static-perhaps  scratches  on  the  tape.  Then  echoes  from  the  room.  Then  the  humming,  but  deepened  and  overwhelmed  with  reverberations:  a  series  of  hollow  beats  like  steady  thun-  der-the  boy's  hand  on  the  table.  The  poem  began,  bevond  the  rumbling  and  the  echoes,  as  though  coming  through  water.  The  words,  to  me,  at  least,  were  incomprehensible.  But  the  boys  were  laughing,  both  of  them.  They  laughed  as  loud  as  the  noise  of  the  machine,  slapping  their  legs  like  old  men.  My  friend  turned  it  off.  He  tried  to  explain  to  the  boy  that  the  machine  was  not  working  as  it  should.  He  asked  the  boy  whether  we  could  hear  that  part  again,  when  he  had  it  running  properly,  and  had  moved  it  off  the  table.  No,  the  boy  said.  My  friend  asked  him  whether  it  was  because  he  didn't  want  to  say  that  poem  again,  and  the  boy,  in  a  carica-  ture  ofthe  scholar's  gesture  a  moment  before,  shrugged,  and  the  twins  laughed.  Would  he  say  another  poem  for  the  listening  machine?  No,  the  boy  said.  Didn't  he  like  the  machine?  The  boy  shrugged  again,  looking  at  his  brother,  who  shrugged,  too.  My  friend  began  to  explain  the  pur-  pose  and  mechanism  of  the  machine  in  greater  detail,  and  how  it  should  work  if  it  were  running  properly.  He  asked  the  boy  what  he  objected  to  about  the  machine.  'The  boy  said  that  he  didn't  want  to  be  turned  into  that.  &quot;Into  what?&quot;  &quot;'That  noise,&quot;  the  boy  said,  pointing  to  the  machine.  &quot;What  came  out  of  there.&quot;  &quot;But  you  laughed,&quot;  my  friend  said.  The  boy  shook  his  head.  &quot;Don't  you  want  the  poem  to  be  there?&quot;  my  friendasked.  &quot;No,&quot;  the  boy  said.  &quot;Why  not?&quot;  &quot;Iwon't  go  in  there,&quot;  the  boy  said.  My  friend  put  the  recorder  away.  &quot;What  if  you  forget  the  poems?&quot;  my  friend  asked.  The  boy  looked  at  him  without  ex-  pression  for  a  moment,  and  then  smiled-an  impudent,  ironic,  mocking  smile-and  took  a  deep  breath  again,  looked  up,  began  to  drum  on  the  table.  It  was  a  different  beat,  more  intricate,  with  syncopations,  rhythmic  pauses,  and  after  a  minute  or  two  I  became  aware  that  the  other  twin  was  patting  the  other  table,  in  those  pauses.  Be-  tween  them,  on  the  two  long  polished  surfaces,  they  were  beating  out  a  single  rhythm.  Then  the  other  twin  began  to  hum.  I  glanced  at  my  friend  the  philologist,  who  looked  as  surprised  as  I  was.  I  saw  the  other  twin's  lips  be-  gin  to  move,and  the  voice  came,  light-  er  but  more  urgent  than  his  brother's,  and  with  the  same  power  of  feeling,  the  same  unquestionable  echoes  of  the  ancient  rhapsodic  diction.  His  landscape  was  brighter,  but  the  story  was  as  fierce,  full  ofteeth  and  blades.  The  second  twin's  chant  paused,  and  the  first  took  up  the  recitation  in  the  name  of  The  Black  Toe,  running  on  ice;  the  boy's  words  trailed  off  into  length-  ening,  distorted  syllables,  and  a  long  wail  of  loneliness  like  three  descending  wolf  chords.  Then  his  brother  con-  tinued,  and  I  understood  that  his  hero  was  the  second  toe  of  the  right  foot,  The  White  Toe,  so  called  because  he  raised  his  face  out  of  the  dust,  and  out  ofthe  shadow.  In  one  of  the  episodes  he  was  disguised  as  a  cripple,  and  his  brother  rescued  him;  it  was  implied  that  the  rescue  also  happened  the  other  way  round.  There  were  calls  of  warn-  ing,  triumph,  incitement,  between  the  two  voices.  When  the  second  twin  also  had  ended  his  words  and  his  hum-  ming,  and  both  of  their  hands  were  still,  the  two  tables  went  on  echoing,  vibrating-strips  of  gray  daylight  run-  ning  into  the  darkness  at  the  end  of  the  hall. "