 b"THERE  is  no  control  over  mem-  ory.  Quite  soon  you  find  yourself  being  vague  about  an  event  which  seemed  so  important  at  the  time  that  you  thought  you'd  never  forget  it.  Or  unable  to  recall  the  face  of  someone  who  you  could  have  sworn  was  there  forever.  On  the  other  hand,  trivial  and  meaningless  memories  may  stay  with  you  for  life.  I  can  still  shut  my  eyes  and  see  Victoria  grinding  coffee  on  the  pantry  steps,  the  glass  bookcase  and  the  books  in  it,  my  father's  pipe  rack,  the  leaves  of  the  sandbox  tree,  the  wallpaper  of  the  bed-  room  in  some  shabby  hotel,  the  hair-  dresser  in  Antibes.  It's  in  this  way  that  I  remember  buying  the  pink  Milanese-  silk  underclothes,  the  assistant  who  sold  them  to  me,and  coming  into  Bond  Street  holding  the  parcel.  I  had  started  out  in  life  trusting  everyone  and  now,  at  twenty-two,  I  trusted  no  one.  So  I  had  few  acquaint  ances  and  no  close  friends.  It  was  per-  haps  in  reaction  against  the  inevitable  loneliness  of  my  life  that  I'd  find  my-  self  doing  bold,  risky,  even  outrageous  things  without  hesitation  or  surprise.  I  was  usually  disappointed  in  these  ad-  ventures  and  they  didn't  have  much  effect  on  me,  good  or  bad,  but  I  never  quite  lost  the  hope  of  something  better  or  different.  One  day,  I've  forgotten  now  where,  I  met  this  young  man  who  smiled  at  me,  and  when  we  had  talked  a  bit  I  agreed  to  have  dinner  with  him  in  a  couple  of  days'  time.  I  went  home  excited,  for  I'd  liked  him  very  much,  and  began  to  plan  what  I  should  wear.  I  had  a  dress  I  quite  liked,  an  eve-  ning  cloak,  shoes,  stockings,  but  my  underclothes  weren't  good  enough  for  the  occa-  sion,  I  decided.  Next  day  I  went  out  and  bought  the  Milanese-silk  chemise  and  drawers.  So  there  we  were  seated  at  a  table  having  dinner,  with  a  bedroom  very  obvious  in  the  background.  He  was  young-  er  than  I'd  thought  and  stiff-  er,  and  I  didn't  like  him  much  after  all.  He  kept  eying  me  in  such  a  wary,  puzzled  way.  When  we  had  finished  our  soup  and  the  waiter  had  taken  the  plates  away,  he  said,  &quot;But  you're  a  lady,  aren't  you?&quot;  Exactly  as  he  might  have  said,  &quot;But  you're  really  a  snake  or  a  crocodile,  aren't  you?&quot;  &quot;Oh  no,  not  that  you'd  notice,&quot;  I  said,  but  this  didn't  work.  We  looked  glumly  at  each  other  across  the  gulf  that  had  yawned  between  us.  Before  I  came  to  England  I'd  read  many  English  novels,  and  I  imagined  I  knew  all  about  the  thoughts  and  tastes  of  various  sorts  of  English  peo-  ple.  I  quickly  decided  that  to  distract  or  interest  this  man  I  must  talk  about  shooting.  I  asked  him  if  he  knew  the  West  Indies  at  all.  He  said  no,  he  didn't,  and  I  told  him  a  long  story  of  having  been  lost  in  the  Dominican  forest  when  I  was  a  child.  This  wasn't  true.  I'd  often  been  in  the  woods  but  never  alone.  &quot;There  are  no  parrots  now,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;or  very  few.  There  used  tobe.  There's  a  Dominican  parrot  in  the  zoo-have  you  ever  seen  it?-a  sulky  bird,  very  old,  I  think.  However,  there  are  plenty  of  other  birds  and  we  do  have  shooting  parties.  Perdix  are  very  good  to  eat,  but  ram\xc3\xa9ers  are  rather  bitter.&quot;  Then  I  began  describing  a  fictitious  West  Indian  shooting  party,  and  all  the  time  I  talked  I  was  remembering  the  real  thing.  An  old  shotgun  leaning  up  in  one  corner  of  the  room,  the  round  table  in  the  middle  where  we  would  sit  to  make  cartridges,  putting  the  shot  in,  ramming  it  down  with  a  wad  of  paper.  Gunpowder?  There  was  that,  too,  for  I  remember  the  smell.  I  suppose  the  boys  were  trusted  to  be  careful.  The  genuine  shooting  party  consist-  ed  of  my  two  brothers,  who  shared  the  shotgun,  some  hangers-on,  and  me  at  the  end  of  the  procession,  for  then  I  couldn't  bear  to  be  left  out  of  anything.  As  soon  as  the  shooting  was  about  to  start,  I  would  stroll  away  casually  and  when  I  was  out  of  sight  run  as  hard  as  I  could,  crouch  down  behind  a  bush,  and  put  my  fingers  in  my  ears.  It  wasn't  that  I  was  sorry  for  the  birds,  but  I  hated  and  feared  the  noise  of  the  gun.  When  it  was  all  over  I'd  quietly  join  the  others.  I  must  have  done  this  unobtrusively  or  probably  my  brothers  thought  me  too  insignificant  to  worry  about,  for  no  one  ever  remarked  on  my  odd  behavior  or  teased  me  about  it.  On  and  on  I  went,  almost  believing  what  I  was  saying,  when  he  inter-  rupted  me.  &quot;Do  you  mean  to  say  that  your  brothers  shot  sitting  birds?&quot;  His  voice  was  cold  and  shocked.  I  stared  at  him.  How  could  I  con-  vince  this  man  thatI  hadn't  the  faintest  idea  whether  my  brothers  shot  sitting  birds  or  not?  How  could  I  explain  now  what  really  happened?  If  I  did  he'd  think  me  a  liar.  Also  a  coward  and  there  he'd  be  right,  for  I  was  afraid  of  many  things,  not  only  the  sound  of  gunfire.  But  by  this  time  I  wasn't  sure  that  I  liked  him  at  all,  soI  was  silent  and  felt  my  face  growing  as  stiff  and  unsmiling  as  his.  It  was  a  most  uncomfortable  dinner.  We  both  avoided  looking  at  the  bed-  room,  and  when  the  last  mouthful  was  swallowed  he  announced  that  he  was  going  to  take  me  home.  The  way  he  said  this  rather  puzzled  me.  Then  I  told  myself  that  he  probably  was  curi-  ous  to  see  where  I  lived.  Neither  of  us  spoke  in  the  taxi  except  tosay,  &quot;Well,  good  night.&quot;  &quot;Good  night.&quot;  I  felt  regretful  when  it  came  to  taking  off  my  lovely  pink  chemise,  but  I  could  still  think,  Some  other  night,  perhaps;  another  sort  of  man.  I  slept  at  once. "