 b"SOCIAL  life  in  [REDACTED]  is  chang- ing  so  rapidly  that  even  the  latest  guides  to  etiquette  quickly  go  out  of  date.  Amy  Vanderbilt  and  Emily  Post  devote  whole  chapters  to  proper  conduct  at  weddings,  for  example,  but  not  a  word  to  unisexual  marriages.  Who  gives  away  the  &quot;bride&quot;  at  such  a  ceremony?  Who  is  the  bride?  What  is  the  protocol  for  dealing  with  frantic  parents  who  attempt  to  disrupt  the  pro-  ceedings?  There  is  a  whole  range  of  dilemmas  that  Amy  and  Emily  never  thought  of,  and  as  a  serviceto  our  readers  we  offer  some  guidelines  to  modern  manners.   YOU  have  been  invited  to  spend  the  weekend  withBart  and  Tenny,  friends  of  yours  who  recently  sold  their  Turtle  Bay  duplex  and  moved  to  a  cooperative  truck  farm  near  Great  Barrington.  What  will  be  expected  of  you?  It  is  important  not  to  get  out  of  bed  much  before  noon;  otherwise,  your  hosts,  who  will  be  up  at  dawn  to  slop  their  pig,  Rimbaud,  will  be  deprived  of  the  opportunity  to  feel  superior.  For  similar  reasons,  it  is  also  courteous  to  complain  at  breakfast  about  the  absence  of  the  Times,  to  lose  your  way  in  the  woods  while  wearing  a  leisure  suit  and  a  pair  of  tassel  loafers,  and  to  have  a  fairly  serious  accident  while  chopping  wood.  Try  to  yawn  a  lot  at  dinner  (this  should  be  easy),  and  afterward,  when  Bart  brings  out  his  Autoharp,  make  sure  to  ask  for  &quot;Amazing  Grace.&quot;  YOU  are  attending  a  convention  of  herpetologists  in  Aspen.  You  are  introduced  to  a  young  man  with  long  blond  hair  who  is  wearing  jeans,  a  buckskin  jacket  with  fringes,  and  a  Fred  Harris  button.  The  time  has  come  to  shake  hands.  What  do  you  do?  Follow  his  lead.  If  he  extends  one  hand,  palm  up,  lay  five  on  him.  If  he  extends  both  hands,  palms  up,  you  must  decide  whether  to  lay  ten  on  him  or  give  him  your  raincoat.  If  he  indicates  that  he  wants  a&quot;soul&quot;  handshake,  try  not  to  grasp  his  thumb  as  if  it  were  a  pipe  wrench,  for  this  leaves  his  other  fingers  with  nothing  to  do,  and,  be-  sides,  in  some  circles  itis  a  sign  that  you  wish  to  share  your  old  lady.  Upon  ex-     ecuting  a  successful  soul  shake,  do  not  withdraw  your  hand  too  quickly;  your  new  acquaintance  may  beexpert  in  the  many  extended  variations  of  this  greet-  ing,  and  may  even  want  to  engage  in  a  little  wristplay.  It  is  permissible  to  draw  the  line  at  an  abrazo  letino  or  bumping  hips.  YOU  and  your  parents  have  de-  cided  to  take  in  a  pornographic  film.  How  should  you  comport  your-  self?  If  your  father  has  agreed  to  pay  for  the  tickets,  then  you  should  remember  to  provide  the  sunglasses.  Your  folks  may  try  to  walk  directly  up  to  the  box  office,  as  if  they  were  buying  tickets  for  &quot;The  Wilderness  Family,&quot;  so  you  should  be  prepared  to  show  them  how  to  skulk  around  the  block  a  few  times  and  then  slip  in  furtively.  It  is  con-  sidered  rude  to  study  your  parents'  faces  during  the  film,  and  if  your  mother  asks  to  have  some  part  of  the  action  explained  to  her,  itis  customary  to  defer  to  your  father.  Don't  forget  to  comment  admiringly  on  the  perform-  ance  of  the  older  actors.  OU  are  at  a  dinner  party  on  West  Seventy-fifth  Street  between  Co-  lumbus  and  Amsterdam.  The  guests  include  a  world-famous  lens-grinder,  a  young  couple  that  has  just  been  through  EST,  an  elderly  woman  from  Uttar  Pradesh,  and  seven  lawyers.  You  are  all  lingering  at  the  table  over  cappuc-  &amp;  __  cino  and  discussing  the  theme  of  incest  in  the  major  [REDACTED]  Korean  novelists,  when  your  host  produces  what  is  unmistakably  a  joint.  What  is  the  proper  procedure?  The  etiquette  of  grass  has  become  as  complicated  as  the  old  calling-card  rituals.  In  the  circumstances  de-  scribed,  protocol  dic-  tates  that  the  host  shall  light  up  and  takethe  first  toke.  He  will  then  offer  the  joint  to  the  first  woman  on  his  left  or  to  the  person  present  who  has  published  least.  If  you  decide  to  partake  when  your  turn  comes,  you  must  remain  cour-  " b"teous  and  attentive.  Do  not  become  preoccupied  with  the  candles,  and  try  not  to  giggle  atthe  way  the  person  sit-  tingacross  from  you  pronounces  &quot;for-  sythia.&quot;  It  is  in  the  worst  possible  taste  for  anyone  to  refer  to  the  provenance  of  the  weed,  or  to  describe  it  in  such  terms  as  &quot;dyn-o-mite,&quot;  &quot;far  out,&quot;  or  &quot;righteous.&quot;  If  at  any  stage  of  the  pro-  ceedings  the  fifteen-year-old  son  of  the  host  should  enter  the  dining  room,  try  to  avoid  any  awkward  gestures,  such  as  palming  the  joint  or  madly  waving  away  signs  of  smoke.  He  will  set  the  appropriate  social  tone-convivial,  quietly  amused,  or  bored-and  you  may  safely  follow  his  lead.  OUR  firm  has  chartered  one  of  the  Circle  Line's  vessels  for  an  evening  of  executive-enrichment  semi-  nars.  Among  the  seminar  leaders  will  be  Roosevelt  Grier,  Sissy  Farenthold,  Erich  yon  Dianiken,  and  Twyla  Tharp.  What  kind  ofshoes  should  you  wear?  Footwise,  these  days,  virtually  any-  thing  goes.  If  you  feel  like  cutting  up,  a  pair  of  Bass  Weejuns  is  always  good  fora  laugh.  (Topsiders  are  also  pretty  funny,  but  on  a  boat  they  could  be  a  bit  much.)  A  pair  of  Murray  Space  Shoes  with  laces  up  the  sides  might  have  a  certain  esoteric  appeal  on  such  an  occasion.  For  more  sensible  wear,  boots  are  a  good  choice,  but  choosing  the  boot  that  is  exactly  right  for  you  requires  a  lot  more  discernment  than  it  used  to  take  to  decide  between  four  eyelets  or  five  onyour  Florsheim  wing  tips.  Scuffed  black  motorcycle  boots  are  making  a  comeback,  for  example,  but  at  least  forthe  time  being  they  should  not  be  worn  with  the  trousers  tucked  into  the  tops.  Frye  boots  are  now  O.K.  only  for  weekends  in  New  Hope-and  maybe  not  even  then.  If  you  can  bring  it  off,  suede  platform  boots  are  the  ne  plus  ultra.  For  all-purpose  businesswear,  we  recommend  a  pair  of  low-rise  hiking  boots  or  L.L.  Bean's  Ranger  Oxfords.  If  you  are  still  in  a  quandary,  remem-  ber  that  you  will  always  be  in  conserva-  tive  good  taste  with  a  pair  of  Adidas  jogging  shoes.  Please,  no  clogs,  [REDACTED]  Shoes,  or  thongs.  OU  are  at  a  Neo-Photo-Secession-  ist  brunch  in  a  SoHo  loft.  When  the  raisin  bagels  are  gone,  some  of  the  guests  begin  to  disrobe.  As  a  certain  new  friendliness  becomes  evident,  it  dawns  on  you  that  an  orgy  has  been  planned.  How  do  you  withdraw  gracefully?  You  have  a  number  of  options  here.  You  can  say  that  your  guru  expects  you  back  at  the  ashram  by  three.  You  can  ask  if  there  are  any  furriers  in  attendance  and  then,  no  matter  what  the  answer  is,  stalk  out  of  the  place.  Or  you  can  explain  that  you  are  half-  way  through  writing  your  commen-  tary  on  the  &quot;Zohar&quot;  and  don't  want  to  waste  any  of  your  essences  right  now.  On  no  account  should  you  plead  a  rash  or  other  dermatological  affliction;  ev-  eryone's  heard  that  line  by  now.  YOU  are  at  a  cocktail  party  in  Tea-  neck.  A  tall,  authoritative-looking  man  with  burning  eyes  has  been  stand-  ing  by  himself  in  a  corner.  You  are  sure  that  he  is  staring  at  you.  Periodi-  cally,  he  turns  a  hundred  and  eighty  degrees  counterclockwise  and  puffs  out  his  cheeks  like  a  blowfish.  Finally,  you  are  introduced.  The  man  turns  out  to  be  your  ex-wife's  current  psychoana-  lyst,  and  you  both  know  that  because  of  the  terms  of  your  separation  agree-  ment  you  owe  him  some  four  thou-  sand  dollars.  How  do  you  behave?  Immediately  engage  the  gentleman  in  a  discussion  of  the  twenty-four-sec-  ond  rule.  All  psychiatrists  love  profes-  sional  basketball;  learned  papers  are  beginning  to  appear  about  the  Jungian  implications  of  the  stuff-shot.  Agree  with  whatever  the  doctor  says-even  about  Bill  Walton.  "