 b"THE  place  exists.  I  see  it,  high  over  the  valley,  one  of  the  high-  est  points  on  the  horizon-a  jag-  ged  relevance,  blue  in  the  distance.  We  are  in  the  car,  going  away  from  it,  about  ten  miles  off.  I  catch  one  last  glimpse  of  it.  Then  itis  gone.  &quot;No,  it  isn't  practical  for  you,&quot;  the  architect's  wife  says-as  if  that  would  cross  it  out  of  my  mind  forever.  But  it  won't  be  crossed  out.  I  continue  to  see  it,  though  itis  no  longer  in  view.  &quot;It's  beautiful,  but  it's  not  practical,&quot;  she  says,  and  the  others  agree.  The  architect  himself,  who  is  driving,  has  already  had  his  say.  He  didn't  ap-  prove  of  it,  said  that  it  should  cost  only  halfas  much  as  it  did,  and  that  the  extensive  repairs  it  needed  would  double  its  price.  In  short,  he  made  me  feel  as  though  I  had  flunked  an  exam.  But  the  place  keeps  smiling  to  me,  as  though  we  had  a  secret  entente,  as  though  it  were  a  new  friend  whom  all  my  old  ones  were  criticalof,  but  whom,  despite  their  adverse  criticism,  I  continued  to  like.  I  like  it  more  and  more.  Even  the  children  didn't  take  to  it,  the  way  I  thought  they  would.  I  ex-  pected  them  to  be  on  my  side,  to  stare  at  it  with  marvel  in  theireyes,  and  shout,  &quot;Oh,  let's  buy  it,  Daddy.&quot;  But  they  didn't.  The  little  girl  was  feeling  carsick  from  the  many  turns  in  the  road  going  up  to  it,  and  the  little  boy  was  overwhelmed  by  the  tall  grass,  the  sheer  loneliness  of  it.  As  for  my  wife,  she  said  exactly  what  I  might  have  foreseen  she  would  say:  &quot;Someone's  gone  to  the  bathroom  there.&quot;  Those  were  her  first  words.  I  laughed  to  my-  self-there  were  no  bathrooms,  but  what  she  saw  plainly  wasn't  of  human  origin,  and,glancing  to  one  side,  I  saw  a  flock  of  sheep  huddled  against  a  wall,  afraid  of  us.  &quot;It's  the  sheep,&quot;  the  architect's  wife  said  to  her  sternly.  My  older  girl  wasn't  there.  I  won-  der  what  she  would  have  thought  of  it.  Coming  up  to  it,  we  had  left  the  country  road  for  a  narrow,  stony,  cury-  ing  track  that  led  uparound  the  steep,  wooded  hill  to  the  house.  Halfway  up,  we  had  to  stop  for  a  small  tree  that  had  fallen  acrossthe  way.  &quot;Let's  just  leave  the  car  here  and  walk,&quot;  the  architect  said,  and  so  we  did.  &quot;Smell  the  broom,  the  gimestra,&quot;  I  said,  elated  to  get  out  of  the  car.  It  was  May,  the  sun  hot,  and  the  heat  seemed  to  express  from  the  flowers  all  of  their  scent  and  dis-  perse  it  in  the  warm  air.  I  took  great  breaths  of  it  and  started  up  the  little  road,  hardly  able  to  walk,  because  in  my  eagerness  I  felt  an  urge  to  run.  But  I  contained  my  enthusiasm,  and  kept  at  only  a  short  distance  ahead  of  the  others.  &quot;Are  you  sure  this  is  the  right  road?&quot;  my  wife  said.  'Yes,  of  course.&quot;  I  had  been  there  a  few  weeks  be-  fore  with  a  real-estate  man  from  Or-  vieto,  a  kindly  old  fellow  with  a  sparse  gray  mustache,  a  pipe,  a  narrow-  brimmed  soft  sage-green  hat,  and  a  pair  of  binoculars-a  handy  thing  for  him  to  have,  given  the  setting  of  the  place.  Orvieto  is  perhaps  the  most  un-  usual  town  in  4974616c79  after  4974616c79,  being  built  high  over  the  plain  on  a  table  mountain,  an  Italian  mesa.  The  cliffs  on  all  sides  make  it  impregnable,  or  almost.  A  town  with  an  aerial  feel,  it  has  been  pictured  as  standing  on  the  palm  of  a  hand  raised  over  the  valley.  A  small  town-about  thirty  thousand  people-with  an  immense  cathedral,  possibly  the  finest  in  the  country.  The  other  buildings  are  of  gray  stone  or brown  tufa;  the  sides  of  the  cathedral  are  striped  like  a  zebra  with  white  and  black  marble.  Its  windows  are  of  stained  glass  or  thin,  transparent  ala-  baster,  and  much  of  the  fagade  is  finely  carved  or  laden  with  mosaics.  One  has  the  impression  of  having  come  upon  an  outsized  jewel  among  the  com-  mon  stones.  The  town  has  a  very  large  number  of  palaces  and  churches  for  its  size,  and-so  that  the  people  wouldn't  go  thirsty  in  case  of  siege,  when  the  Roman  aqueduct  that  fed  it  could  be  easily  cut  off-a  well  that  is  at  least  as  deep  as  the  cliffs  around  the  town  are  high.  Dug  into  the  tufaceous  rock,  it  has  two  spiral  stairways  down  around  the  shaft.  There  is  an  old  saying  that  if  you  looked  up  at  the  sky  at  twilight  from  the  bottom,  you  could  see  the  stars  before  you  could  see  them  from  the  surface.  Coming  to  the  south  edge  of  the  town,  the  real-estate  man  showed  me,  through  the  binoculars,  two  farmhouses  in  the  distance,  Without  having  to  go  there,  I  decided  they  weren't  for " b"me,  Not  unusual  enough,  too  close  to  a  road.  &quot;I'll  take  you  to  a  farmhouse  with  a  tower,  near  Castel  Viscardo,&quot;  he  said.  On  the  way,  we  stopped  at  an  old  house  he  had  bought  for  himself.  It  was  set  on  a  rocky  mound,  once  an  Etruscan  burial  ground.  The  outlines  of  some  of  the  tombs,  opened  and  filled  in  again,  were  still  visible  in  the  tufa.  He  said  he  was  an  amateur  sculptor,  and  planned  to  carve  the  rocks,  leaving  them  in  place.  I  won-  dered  if  their  original  form  could  be  improved  upon.  From  his  house  we  went  to  &quot;mine.&quot;  Rain  was  threaten-  ing.  The  sky  was  leaden  and  silver.  It  was  near  sunset.  There  was  a  strange  light-eerie,  ecliptic.  And  though  the  sky  was  overcast,  the  clouds  were  high,  the  visibility  quite  good.  We  went  up  the  little  road  through  the  wood.  The  way  was  clear  then;  the  tree  hadn't  fallen.  Beyond  the  wood  we  came  to  a  grove  of  olive  trees  that  hadn't  been  pruned  for  a  long  time  and  had  a  wild,  untended  look,  then  to  a  row  of  mulberry  and  cherry  trees  leading  up  to  the  house.  This  was  even  better  than  his,  I  thought-  grander,  higher,  more  isolated.  On  the  right  was  the  old  tower,  of  stone  and  with  a  roof.  It  had  a  beautiful  arched  doorway,  framed,  like  the  win-  dows,  by  slabs  of  a  darker,  gray-blue  stone.  'The  door  was  locked  and  he  didn't  have  the  key,  But,  going  round  the  back,  I  found  that  a  ground-  floor  window  gave  when  I  pushed  it,  and  we  both  clambered  through.  The  room,  empty  of  all  furniture,  had  a  large  stone  fireplace  and  an  invit-  ing  stairway  up.  This  branched-one  branch  led  to  the  house  and  its  two  bedrooms,  the  other  to  the  second  and  third,  or  top,  floor  of  the  tower.  The  room  on  the  top  floor  was  under  the  rafters  of  the  roof.  One  of  these  was  supported  by  a  pole.  The  room  had  no  windows,  only  narrow  open-  ings  at  each  corner,  and,  set  into  the  walls,  many  round,  widemouthed,  empty  earthen  vases-nests  for  pi-  geons.  There  were  no  pigeons  any-  more.  The  place  had  been  uninhabit-  ed  for  years.  On  the  ground  floor  of  the  house  were  two  stables,  one  with  a  long  and  handsome  terra-cotta  manger.  At  a  right  angle  to  them  were  more  stables  and  barns  and  a  porch.  There,  under  the  porch  roof,  I  saw  for  a  moment  a  table,  set,  with  family  and  friends  around  it,  wine  on  the  table,  a  white  tablecloth  ...a  scene  out  of  the  past,  or  in  the  fu-  ture?  Desperately  I  wished  that  it  might  come  to  be.  Dug  into  the  rock  of  the  steepslope  some  fifty  feet  back  of  the  house  was  the  wine  cellar.  You  had  the  feeling  that  on  a  very  clear  day  you  could  see  for  a  hundred  miles  in  all  directions-a  vast,  almost  limitless  view  of  dawn  and  sunset.  Below,  to  the  east,  a  river  valley;  to  the  west,  ridges,  ranges,  woods.  And  here  and  there  in  the  wide  landscape  a  distant  village,  a  castle,  an  isolated  farmhouse.  Orvieto,  too,  lay  below,  eight  miles  away.  Nearer,  the  roofs  of  theold  vil-  lage  of  Castel  Viscardo.  Nothing  ugly  in  sight.  The  house's  steep  hill,  or  mound,  was  really  the  highest  point  of  a  grassy  ridge.  The  yard  extended  southward  into  a  broad  sweep  of  grass  combed  by  the  wind.  It  was  4974616c79  as  it  might  have  looked  a  hundred  years  ago,  pastoral,  bucolic.  Yes,  I  was  enthusiastic  about  the  place.  That  the  roofs  and  some  of  the  walls,  doors,  and  windows  needed  extensive  repairs,  that  there  was  no  running  water  or  bathrooms,  that  the  electric  wiring  would  all  its  defects.  Oh,  I  wouldn't  live  here  all  the  time.  Maybe  a  few  months  a  year.  I  live  in  [REDACTED],  but  I  am  free-I  paint-and  I  would  come.  Do  you  think  it  might  be  broken  into  while  I  was  away?&quot;  He  tilted  his  head,  not  in  a  nod  or  a  denial  but  as  if  to  say  that  it  could  happen.  &quot;The  worst  are  the  hunters,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You'd  have  to  get  someone  to  keep  an  eye  on  it.  One  of  these  shepherds  maybe.  And  put  a  fence  around  it.&quot;  No,  not  a  fence,  I  thought.  It  would  interrupt  the  sweep  of  the  landscape.  But  a  neighbor  to  look  after  it,  yes.  &quot;Well,  I'd  certainly  like  to  buy  it,  but  first  I'll  have  to  show  it  to  my  wife,&quot;  I  said.  And  I  left  in  buoyant  spirits.  All  the  way  to  4974616c79,  I  felt  euphoric,  the  way  one  feels  when  one  has  dis-  covered  something  after  a  long  search.  Why,  I  thought,  the  place  was  so  have  to  be  redone  meant  little  to  ~  beautiful  one  would  want  to  trav-  me.  There  was  a  spring  nearby.  Iel  miles  to  see  it,  come  and  watch  would  build  an  aqueduct.  I  had  \xe2\x80\x98KQ  l  the  sunset  from  it,  have  a  picnic  always  wanted  to  build  one.  I  biz\xe2\x80\x9d  at  the  footof  the  old  tower  under  would  get  a  mason  and  a  carpen-  ter  to  come  and  help  me  with  the  re-  pairs,  perhaps  give  work  to  someone  unemployed.  I  would  get  to  know  the  villagers  this  way.  For  a  moment  noth-  ing  daunted  me.  &quot;Yes,  I  would  like  to  buy  it,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  like  it.  I  like  it  very  much.&quot;  &quot;It  certainly  is  an  original  place,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Yes.  My  family  had  a  country  house  near  Siena  which,  unfortunately,  we  sold  three  years  ago,  after  my  par-  ents  died.  It  was  a  foolish  thing  to  do,  and  I  constantly  regret  it.  This  place  would  make  up  for  it  in  part.  It  has  some  of  its  good  qualities  and  none  of  the  cherry  and  olive  trees.  I  could  see  myself  returning  with  the  car,  the  children  cheering,  and,  all  at  the  same  time,  the  cherries  ripe,  friends  sitting  at  the  dinner  table,  the  stables  made  into  comfortable  rooms,  the  fireplace  in  the  tower  lit,  paintings  and  books  around  me,  and  music,  the  top  room  and  every  other  room  fur-  nished,  the  garden  blossoming.  Yet  no  major  changes  made  in  the  structure  of  the  place,  nothing  demolished  or  torn  down,  everything  left  standing.  UT  it  wasn't  to  be.  Impractical.  &quot;I  want  to  buy  it,&quot;  I  tell  my  wife  again  and  again,  and  she  replies,  " b"&quot;All  right,  go  ahead,  but  you'll  never  get  me  there.&quot;  And  I  haven't  the  heart  to  do  it  alone.  W  hat  is  property  to  me  anyway?  Can  you  really  own  a  piece  of  land,  a  house?  Aren't  we  all  sojourners,  ten-  ants  in  this  world?  And  yet  the  place  attracts  me,  I  am  almost  on  the  point  of  going  to  Orvieto  with  my  checkbook.  The  world  is  mine.  I  am  in  the  driver's  seat.  But  only  for  a  moment.  The  words  ring  in  my  ear:  &quot;you'll  nev-  er  get  me  there.&quot;  And  I  withdraw  to  my  room  and  slump  on  the  bed  and  pull  the  bedspread  over  my  head  and  lie  still  as  a  mummy  until,  short  of  air,  I  am  forced  to  uncover  my  nose.  E  have  some  money  in  the  bank-the  sale  of  the  old  family  house.  Inflation  bites  into  it.  The  lira  dips.  We  should  invest  it  somehow.  We've  seen  dozens  of  houses  and  apartments,  and  inquired  about  a  hun-  dred  more.  In  this  year  in  which  I  am  in  4974616c79,  that's  all  I  seem  to  do.  But  in  4974616c79,  where  we  are  staying,  what's  for  sale  is  either  too  expensive  or  too  small,  and  none  of  the  places  we've  seen  outside  of  4974616c79  can  compare  with  that  one  near  Orvieto.  Oh,  yes,  there  was  a  place  on  the  Argentario  I  took  my  wife  to.  It  had  a  full  view  of  the  " b"sea,  of  the  island  of  Giglio,  of  Monte-  cristo,  even  of  Corsica  on  the  clearest  days,  but  she  said  it  was  too  small,  and  it  wasn't  a  whole  house,  just  a  half  house.  It  had  its  own  garden,  though,  lemon  trees,  a  portico.  There  was  an  old  mill,  too,  between  Pisa  and  Lucca,  that  we  went  to  see.  But  that  was  too  large,  needed  too  much  work,  the  view  wasn't  to  her  liking.  She  has  seen  sev-  eral  one-  or  two-room  apartments  in  4974616c79.  These  you  could  rent,  she  says.  But  we  could  never  livein  one-  not  the  five  of  us,  I  say.  And  so  the  weeks  pass  and  the  months,  and  our  stay  in  4974616c79  is  almost  at  an  end.  But  I  won't  give  up.  On  weekends  I  sally  forth  into  the  country,  sometimes  alone,  sometimes  with  wife  and  children.  Besides  the  places  mentioned,  I  have  been  to  Ven-  ice,  Florence,  Narni,  Todi,  Spoleto,  the  Circeo,  the  mountains  of  Tolfa,  Subiaco,  the  Sabine  Mountains,  Viterbo,  Arezzo,  Bagnaia,  Lake  Trasimeno,  San  Gimignano,  Bolsena.  I  have  seen  places  I  would  never  have  seen  other-  wise,  and  met  some  unusual  people  in  the  process.  In  the  Sabine  Moun-  tains,  a  parish  priest,  and  real-estate  agent  in  his  spare  time,  showed  us,  among  other  things,  what  he  described  as  a  &quot;terrific'  buy-a  onetime  convent  that  was  now  an  abandoned  ruin.  The  cracks  in  the  walls  were  indeed  terrific;  there  were  floors  missing;  through  the  roof  not  only  would  it  rain  in  but  you  would  see  the  stars.  Might  as  well  try  to  restore  the  Colosseum.  In  Subiaco,  I  saw  a  tiny  house,  unreachable  by  car,  a  tremendous  walk  from  the  main  street.  Perhaps  when  I  was  young  ...  Near  Lake  Trasimeno,  I  was  shown  an  old  farmhouse,  fully  restored,  well  worth  its  price.  But  every  tile,  door,  window,  step  spoke  out  the  owner's  taste-it  would  remain  his  even  after  I  had  finished  paying  for  it.  Yet  by  going  to  see  it  I  came  across  the  pretty  town  of  Panicale.  On  its  outskirts  there  is  the little  Church  of  St.  Sebastian.  It  was  closed,  but  a  boy  came  to  unlock  the  door  for  me,  and  there,  at  one  end,  taking  up  the  whole  wall,  was  Peru-  gino's  fresco  &quot;The  Martyrdom  of  St.  Sebastian&quot;  -the  calm  faces  of  the  arch-  ers  and  of  the  saint,  the  faded  gen-  tle  colors,  the  serene  Umbrian  country-  side.  In  Spoleto,  a  real-estate  lady  who  quoted  Leopardi  and  Horace  showed  me  around.  Near  the  Lake  of  Bolsena,  a  count  drove  me  down  an  incredibly  steep  road  in  the  woods  to  a  little  farm-  house  he  wanted  to  sell.  The  farmer  and  his  wife  were  there.  The  man  was  ill,  and  told  us  his  sad  story.  Toward  the  end  of  our  visit,  the  wife  went  to  get  a  bottle  of  wine  from  their  cave  cellar.  She  uncorked  it.  It  fizzed  almost  like  champagne,  and  like  champagne  it  was  light  and  very  dry-and  cold,  havingbeen  &quot;cool'd  a  long  age  in  the  deep-delved  earth.&quot;  In  Bagnaia,  it  was  market  day,  and  a  comedy  atmosphere  pervaded  the  little  town.  In  the  main  square,  I  felt  as  if  I  were  on  a  stage,  an  actor  among  ac-  tors,  all  perfectly  unaware.  And  still  no  house.  WE  have  only  ten  days  before  we  have  to  board  a  plane  for  [REDACTED].  It  seems  too  late  to  try  to  buy  anything  now.  A  friend  says,  &quot;It's  mad  for  you  to  leave  your  money  in  the  bank.&quot;  Money  in  the  bank.  In  my  youth,  we  were  always  short  of  money-lots  of  land,  a  big  house,  but  very  little  cash.  Therefore,  keeping  money  in  the  bank  doesn't  seem  mad  to  me.  Not  mad  to  have  ready  access  to  it,  especially  since  I  have  no  job,  no  salary,  but  only  do  free-lance  work.  But  another  consideration  makes  me  go  on  one  last  errand  for  a  house:  I  don't  want  to  leave  4974616c79  without  owning  some-  thing  in  it,  a  place  to  repair  to  in  case  hotels  and  the  houses  of  friends  and  relatives  should  suddenly  all  seem  inhospitable  to  me,  a  place  where  I  can  leave  a  few  of  my  things-  some  of  my  books,  a  desk,  a  chair,  a  bed,  pots  and  pans  and  dishes,  something  familiar  to  return  to.  And  so  I  rent  a  car  and  venture  out  again,  in  my  pocket  an  address  from  a  clas-  sified  ad  in  the  Messaggero.  It's  one  thatI  saw  weeks  ago  but  ignored  because  the  price  seemed  ridiculously  low  :  twen-  " b"ty-three  hundred  dollars.  A  barn,  I  thought,  or  storeroom-no  place  that  I  could  live  in.  But  on  the  telephone  I  asked  if  it  might  be  suitable  as  a  studio,  and  the  man  said  yes,  it  was,  and  he  gave  me  good  directions  and  the  name  of  the  care-  taker.  &quot;His  real  name,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;is  Anselmo  Remi,  but  you'd  better  ask  for  Cimitella  or  you  won't  find  him.  Every-  one  knows  him  as  Cimi-  tella.&quot;  I  follow  the  Auto-  strada  del  Sole  up  the  Tiber  [REDACTED]  toward  Orte.  Here  the  Tiber  isn't  tawny,  as  in  4974616c79,  but  green-blue.  I  know  the  valley  well.  Up  to  the  right  in  the  fields,  below  a  hamlet,  I  see  what  from  the  road  seems  a  speck  but  is  a  little  farm-  house  that  an  English  writer  friend  of  mine  bought  long  ago.  I  am  sure  he  is  there  typing,  while  his  Italian  wife  is  quietly  painting  in  the  room  below.  I  won't  go  to  see  them  this  trip.  I  have  no  time.  I  go  on  up  the  river  ten  more  miles,  take  a  left,  follow  a  stream  along  its  gorge,  then  gradually  drive  up  a  craggy  hillside.  It's  good  to  leave  the  expressway  and  be  here  on  this  curving,  narrow  road.  I  feel  at  home  amid  the  olives  and  the  vines.  Up  high,  on  top  of  a  hill,  across  the  stream,  is  a  cluster  of  stone  houses  the  color  of  the  rocks  below.  Everything  blends  delightfully.  It  is  the  hand  of  time  that  makes  it  so.  My  vil-  lage  is  the  next  one,  on  this  side  of  the  stream,  and  higher  than  that  one.  I  come  to  the  first  houses  and  then  to  a  central  little  square.  &quot;Where  can  I  find  Cimitella?&quot;  I  ask.  &quot;Ah,  Cimitella?  Eh,  you  goup  there,  up  to  the  very  top,  beyond  the  arch.&quot;  On  up  I  drive.  Just  before  the  arch  the  road  bends  so  sharply  that  my  car,  though  it  is  a  small  Fiat,  gets  by  only  after  some  maneuvering.  On  my  right  I  skirt  a  wall  below  which  is  a  sheer  drop,  and  I  come  to  another  square  and  a  church  and  a  castle.  Here  I  leave  the  car  and  ask  for  Cimitella  again.  Somebody  smiles  and  directs  me  higher  still.  I  go  up  a  lane  in  a  zig-  zag.  A  bunch  of  small  children  peek  and  hide  behind  a  corner  and  laugh  uproariously.  A  dog  barks  playfully.  I  come  to  Cimitella's  house.  Everything  is  little  here,  except  the  castle  and  the  church.  Cimitella's  wife-a  pleasant,  smiling,  middle-aged  woman-appears  at  the  doorway,  and  calls  her  husband  for  me.  He's  talking  to  some  neigh-  bors  in  a  lane.  Spare,  with  an  expres-  sive,  friendly  face  and  bright  eyes,  he  comes  over,  and  down  we  go  to  see  the  &quot;studio.&quot;  It  turns  out  that  it's  on  the  first  little  square  I  stopped  at  on  arriving.  The  studio  is  on  the  second  floor  of  a  small  house  that  juts  out  into  the  square.  It  has  a  medieval  aspect.  It's  made  of  stone.  It  has  an  outside  staircase,  and  itis  buttressed  by  two  chimneys.  It  must  be  seven  or  eight  hundred  years  old.  Yet  it's  not  dilapi-  dated.  Simply  worn.  The  stone  steps  are  hollowed  out  by  use  through  the  centuries.  On  top  of  the  staircase  is  a  little  terrace.  Cimitella  unlocks  the  door.  There  is  a  room  with  a  beauti-  ful  ancient  fireplace,  and  another  little  room,.  It  has  running  water  and  a  light.  From  two  of  the  windows  you  can  see  the  countryside;  another  win-  dow  looks  onto  the  square.  Yes,  it's  much  better  than  I  expected.  And  the  floor  below,  too,  is  for  sale,  for  less  than  the  second-for  about  a  thousand  dollars-so  that  by  buying  both  I  can  have  a  little  house.  I  return  to  4974616c79  quite  enthusiastic  about  my  find.  But  my  wife  won't  go  to  see  it.  I  am  determined  to  buy  it,  though.  And  so,  a  few  days  before  our  departure,  I  sign  a  contract.  Then  I  make  one  last  visit  to  it,  alone,  for  no  one  will  come  with  me.  I  meet  Cimi-  tella  again,  and  a  mason.  He  is  going  to  restore  it  for  me--mend  the  floor  and  roof,  put  in  a  bathroom,  replaster  the  inside  walls  And  I'll  have  our  things  moved  in.  Someday,  I  hope,  my  children  will  laugh  with  the  children  of  the  village,  and  my  wife  will  sleep  there  with  me.  Nearby  is  Monte  Ci-  mino,  and  a  lake,  and  the  old  town  of  Viterbo,  and  the  villages  on  the  tops  of  hills.  Cimitella  points  them  out:  &quot;Orte,  Attigliano,  Chia,  Giove,&quot;  he  says.  One  of  them  is  actually  called  Giove-Jupiter-and  it  is  as  if  he  were  pointing  at  the  planets  and  the  stars,  naming  them  one  by  one. "