 b"FOR  1976,  the  LoP  rest  is  are  pinning  their  hopes  on  two  new  models-a  new  version  of  their  sporty&quot;  ad  olescent,  Robert  (Bob)  LoPresti,  ca  lled  the  Bob  Lo  Prest  i  11,  and  a  new  subcompact  (meant  to  compete  with  the  imports)  c  alle  d  the  LoPresti  Tot  .  Five  years  ago,  wh  en  the  original  Bob  LoPresti  was  launched,  we  found  him  &quot;an  agreeable  sporty  type  who  may  well  appeal  to  a  young  constituency  mo  re  in  ter-  est  ed  in  appearance  than  performance.&quot;  We  were  right,  but  during  the  next  few  years  ,  while  performance  hardly  i  mproved  ,  Bob  LoPresti's  appearance  became  more  soft  than  sporty.  This  year,  he  was  given  a  dr  astic  overhauling,  but  during  road  tests  we  f  ound  that,  despite  exterior  changes,  the  &quot;new&quot;  Bob  LoPresti  11  suffered  from  the  same  fault  as  its  prede  ce  ssor-  mi  nimal  performance.  And  as  for  the  L  oP  resti  Tot,  we  found  this  smal  l-  est  LoPresti  absolutely  useless  fo  r  even  the  most  routine  neighborhood  chores.  The  chart  belo  w  show  s  the  re-  sults  of  tests  conducted  on  the  entire  LoPresti  family.  Once  again,  we  recommend  that  buyers  interested  in  substantive  human  values  turn  their  attention  elsewhere.  1976  LoPrestis  NOT  ACCEPTABLE  MODEL  H  ORSEPOWE  R  PERFORMANCE  &amp;  HAN  DLING  Mr.  LoP  resti  0  -1  Turning  impressive.  (Full-Size  Adult)  Maneuverability  was  excellent.  Braking  was  effortless  and  effective.  Poor  acceleration.  Doris  LoPresti  0-1  Turning,  braking,  (Intermediate-Size  maneuverability  all  Adult)  excellent,  b  ut  we  found  that  this  model  could  not  maintain  a  speed  over  five  miles  per  hour.  Doris  LoPresti  O-1  (See  Comments)  Ghia  Gran  Luxus  Bob  LoPresti  11  0-1  (Compact  Sports)  Resembles  other  LoPresti  models  ABSOLUTELY  NOT  ACCEPTABLE  MODEL  HORSEPOWER  PERFORMANCE  &amp;  HANDLING  No  performance  Uncle  Ronald  LoPresti  0  (Adult)  LoPresti  Tot  0  (Subcompact)  No  performance  COMMENTS  You  have  to  be  out  of  your  mind,  in  our  opinion,  to  take  this  or  any  other  LoPresti  into  your  life.  Their  im-  pressive  turning  radius  and  their  uncanny  ability  to  stop  on  a  dime  may  give  the  illusion  of  safety,  but  their  absurdly  low  horsepower  rating  makes  even  the  full-size  adult  a  problem  at  best.  Doris  LoP  resti  is  a  very  poor  bet,  even  for  casual  week-  end  use,  Don't  be  fooled.  This  &quot;Ghia&quot;  model  is  the  same  old  low-performance  Doris  LoPresti,  except  that  she's  been  tricked  out  in  a  Halston  &quot;skimp.&quot;  More  important,  the  Ghia  &quot;Luxus&quot;  decor  group  involves  &quot;plucked&quot;  eye-  brows,  which  in  our  estimation  could  cause  a  nasty  cut  during  a  sudden  stop.  With  optional  power  pack,  Bob  LoPresti  11  can  ac-  celerate  to  ten  miles  per  hour,  but  only  for  seconds,  which  makes  him  extremely  unreliable,  even  among  undemanding  teen-agers.  COMMENTS  Uncle  Ronald  LoPresti  is  a  nice  guy,  but  let's  talk  turkey:  As  a  functioning  human  being,  he's  out  of  the  question.  This  model  ought  to  come  off  the  market.  During  our  testing  we  did  everything  possible  to  get  some  performance  out  of  this  model,  but  to  no  avail.  For  a  day-in,  day-out  silent  relationship,  itis  difficult  to  see  how  this  model  can  compete  with  even  the  most  sluggish  Japanese  houseboy.  "