 b"  magnificent  sandwich  palace  on  Nicollet  Avenue,  not  radio  broad-  casting,  that  brought  the  Elmore  brothers,  Edgar  and  Roy,  to  wealth  and  prominence  in  [REDACTED].  In  1919,  a  few  years  before  electric  re-  frigerators  became  general,  the  brothers  sold  their  ice  company  at  a  fine  profit,  purchased  the  former  Sons  of  Knute  Temple,  and  opened  Elmore's  Court  restaurant,  with  six  sandwiches  on  the  menu:  egg  salad,  onion  and  cucumber,  toasted  cheese,  ham,  ham  and  cheese,  and  the  [REDACTED].  All  were  delicious,  but  the  egg  salad  was  tops.  Three  inches  thick  at  the  middle  and  served  on  wheat  bread  with  a  hard  crust,  the  Elmore  egg  salad  was  a  [REDACTED]  landmark,  a  lunch  beloved  by  thousands,  and,  be-  cause  the  sandwich  craze  was  then  sweeping  the  [REDACTED],  a  gold  mine  for  Edgar  and  Roy.  Among  the  better  families,  however,  the  sandwich  was  still  scorned  as  an  inferior  food,  served  free  in  taverns  and  eaten  by  mechan-  ics,  and  they  did  not  patronize  the  Court.  Roy,  who  managed  the  kitchen  and  who  was  something  of  a  free-  thinker,  didn't  give  a  darn  for  them,  the  Peaveys  and  the  Heffelfingers  and  the  Pillsburys-all  cake  eaters,  to  him-but  it  was  Edgar's  weakness  to  covet  their  patronage,  and  once  the  Court  was  on  its  feet  he  set  out  to  improve  its  quality  and  tone.  Edgar  was  a  fine  old  gentleman,  a  devout  Presbyterian  and  a  natty  dresser  (red  polka-dot  tie  with  a  navy-blue  suit,  navy-blue  bow  tie  with  a  white  linen  suit),  and  in  the  majesty  of  the  Court-with  its  oak  tables  beneath  a  blue-and-gold  stained-glass  skylight,  its  neo-  Norwegian  columns  support-  ing  the  marble  mezzanine,  and,  upstairs,  its  walnut-pan-  elled  Throne  Room,  with  oil  portraits  of  Past  Knutes  and  their  lovely  Elses-Edgar  was  more  the  admiral  than  a  sandwich-  palace  proprietor.  His  glance  could  straighten  a  man  in  his  chair  and  quick-  en  the  step  of  a  waiter,  but  asto  qual-  ity  and  tone,  he  was  nervous,  indirect,  and  uncertain.  He  invested  in  astring  quartet  to  play  at  lunchtime-Schubert  mostly,  and  some  Mozart  and  Beethoven  (the  slow  movements)-but  he  wasn't  sure  he  liked  the  music,  so  he  hid  the  mu-  sicians  in  a  forest  of  ferns.  He  labored  at  writing  advertisements  extolling  the  beauties  of  the  Court,  its  music,  its  architecture,  its  civility  (&quot;'The  establish-  ment  to  which  gentlemen  repair  with  no  fear  of  embarrassment&quot;).&quot;  &quot;People  will  takeus  for  a  French  whorehouse,&quot;  said  Roy,  for  Edgar  never  wrote  a  word  about  sendwiches.  The  radio  sta-  tion  was  Roy's  idea.  Radio,  Roy  said,  would  take  Elmore's  right  to  the  Pills-  burys  in  their  own  homes;  they  could  hear  for  themselves  what  a  fine  place  it  was.  (Also,  it  would  give  Roy  Jr.  something  to  do  with  himself;  he  was  unhappy  in  his  job  as  egg  buyer,  and  he  talked  of  nothing  but  radio.)  Edgar  was  sixty-two.  He  had  mis-  givings  about  assuming  a  new  head-  ache  like  a  radio  station  at  his  age.  He  worried  about  the  expense,  the  dan-  ger  of  electrocution,  and  the  possible  influence  of  radio  waves  on  the  men-  tal  processes,  but  he  also  saw  the  Pillsburys  seated  around  a  radio  re-  ceiver  in  their  mansion,  enjoying  the  fine  music  from  Elmore's  Court.  And  so  on  April  6,  1925  patrons  came  to  lunch  to  findthe  Throne  Room  draped  with  velvet,  the  tables  arranged  in  a  semicircle,  and  in  the  center  a  bastion  of  broad-leaved  plants  from  which  rose  a  black  iron  stand  adorned  with  a  golden  eagle,  the  Stars  and  Stripes,  and  a  microphone.  F  the  six  sandwiches,  the  one  most  in  need  of  association  with  fine  music  was  the  [REDACTED],  which  many  people  still  shunned  out  of  leftover  patriotism,  and  it  was  this  sandwich,  a  simple  beef  patty  in  a  bun,  that  Sta-  tion  WLT  (With  Lettuce  and  To-  mato)  was  intended  particularly  to  assist.  The  first  broadcast  featured  the  [REDACTED]  Tuxedo  Trio  (formerly  the  Three  Nicolleteons)  and  Miss  Lily  Dale,  the  Ham-  burg  Soprano,  who  sang  that  day-and  every  day  there-  after  for  eight  years-the  [REDACTED]  Song  (to  the  tune  of  &quot;Over  There&quot;)  :  &quot;It's  the  one,  it's  the  one,  it's  the  one  with  the  fun  in  the  bun.  When  you  eat  a  [REDACTED],  you  always  clamor  for  just  another  one,  one,  one.&quot;  Dedi-  cation  Day  also  included  two  spirituals  and  an  original  song,  &quot;The  Laughing  Water  of  Minnehaha,&quot;  by  the  Trio,  and  selections  by  Schubert,  Mozart,  and  Beethoven,  played  by  the  Court  Orchestra  (the  string  quartet  plus  a  piano).  Finally,  Edgar  was  brought  up  for  a  few  words.  He  set  his  feet  firmly,  grasped  the  microphone  with  both  hands,  pressed  it  to  his  lips,  and  prayed  in  a  loud  voice  that  all  of  this  might  turn  out  for  the  best  and  be  found  pleasing  in  the  eyes  of  God.  His  prayer  practically  deafened  Roy  Jr.,     who  was  at  the  controls  in  the  linen  closet,  but,  all  in  all,  everyone  judged  the  day  a  complete  success.  After  the  broadcast,  there  was  a  reception.  Oh  the  days  when  radio  was  strange  and  dazzling!  Even  the  WLT  per-  formers  could  not  quite  believe  it.  To  think  that  their  voices  flew  out  as  far  as  Anoka,  Stillwater,  and  Hastings!  And  yet  it  seemed  to  be  true.  Roy  Jr.  had  friends  in  those  towns  who  had  promised  to  listen,  and  they  said  WLT  came  in  loud  and  clear,  so  the  proof  was  there,  but  some  didn't  accept  it  for  years-not  entirely.  For  years,  Clarence  Peters,  the  Tuxedo  tenor,  would  remark  to  his  wife  in  the  eve-  ning  about  a  particularly  good  number  he  had  sung  on  the  radio  that  day,  &quot;You  should  have  heard  it!&quot;  &quot;I  dd  hear  it,  as  clear  as  a  bell,&quot;  she  always  would  say.  Of  course,  Clarence  knew  this,  and  yet,  never  having  heard  it  himself,  he  wasn't  ready  to  believe  it.  One  day,  unable  to  bear  the  mys-  tery,  Clarence  backed  away  from  the  microphone  during  the  last  chorus  of  &quot;Cowboy's  Farewell,&quot;  edged  toward  the  door  to  the  linen  closet,  opened  it,  and,  still  singing  (&quot;I  am  gone  away  to  a  home  in  the  sky,  where  love  never  fades  and  hopes  never  die&quot;),  recog-  nized  his  own  voice  on  the  receiving  set  nearby,  and  cried  out,  &quot;Ihave  heard  it!&quot;  Sensing  immediately  that  the  home  audience  might  not  grasp  the  meaning  of  his  remark,  he  quickly  add-  ed,  &quot;I  am  on  the  radio!&quot;  BECAUSE  of  his  good  enunciation  and  presence  of  mind,  Clarence  Peters  soon  became  WLT's  first  an-  nouncer,  and  as  such  he  performed  the  first  broadcast  interview  in  [REDACTED].  Miss  Dale  was  ill  that  day,  the  Trio  was  strapped  for  new  songs,  and  Clar-  ence,  needing  to  fill  a  few  minutes,  took  the  microphone  to  the  nearest  table  and  invited  those  present  to  make  a  talk.  A  tall  man  in  a  white  suit  (his  name  has  been  forgotten)  stood  up  and  nervously  donned  his  straw  hat  as  the  microphone  was  put  before  him.  &quot;It  is  an  honor  to  be  given  this  oppor-  tunity,&quot;  he  said  gravely,  &quot;and  I  sin-  cerely  thank  you  for  it.&quot;  This  speech,  though  brief,  was  a  real  innovation  at  the  time-the  voice  of  an  ordinary  person,  a  person  such  as  the  listener  himself  or  herself,  carried  to  countless  unseen  homes,  the  same  as  if  he  or  she  were  the  Governor,  or  the  Archbishop,  or  a  Pillsbury-and  soon  the  whole  city  knew  that  Elmore's  was  the  place  to  go  to  &quot;get  on  the  air.&quot;  Hundreds  vied  for  the  choice  tables  in  the  Throne  Room;  families  from  dis-  tant  towns  journeyed  to  [REDACTED]  to  " b"visit  Elmore's,  having  alerted  neighbors  and  friends  to  listen  to  their  broadcast.  Many  were  prepared  to  pay  money  for  the  privilege.  Some  demanded  it  as  a  right.  Edgar  had  to  hire  two  ushers  to  handle  the  crowds.  The  Throne  Room  became  a  regular  auditorium-people  were  too  excited  to  eat  anyway,  and  Edgar  had  to  hire  two  ushers  to  shush  them.  The  tables  were  hauled  down-  stairs  to  the  main  dining  room  and  re-  placed  by  pews  from  the  Knute  chapel.  It  was  wonderful  to  be  on  the  radio,  and  awful.  Many  a  manwho  had  re-  hearsed  words  in  his  mind  found  him-  self  tongue-tied  at  the  crucial  moment,  and  sat  down  in  shame  and  wept.  Many  a  man  who  had  thought  to  tell  a  joke  chucked  it  at  the  last  moment  in  favor  of  a  religious  or  patriotic  senti-  ment  befitting  the  importance  of  the  oc-  casion.  (&quot;'This  is  Albert  M.,  of  Waseca.  Hello.  For  all  have  sinned  and  come  short  of  the  glory  of  God.&quot;)  Some  re-  quested  prayers  for  sick  friends.  Respect  for  the  flag  was  expressed,  and  the  need  for  vigilance;  also  the  superiority  of  [REDACTED]  cheese  and  butter,  the  beauty  of  her  lakes  and  rivers,  the  belief  in  de-  mocracy,  the  hope  for  a  better  future.  Through  that  first  summer  and  winter  and  into  the  next  summer,  Edgar  pondered  what  he  had  wrought-the  once  lovely  restaurant  now  crowded  and  noisy,  waiters  quit-  ting  every  week,  and,  thanks  to  WLT,  the  [REDACTED]  now  the  hot  item  on  the  menu.  This  was  a  bitter  pill  for  Roy  and  the  cooks,  Dorothy  and  Inga,  who  resented  the  hard:assembly-  line  work  of  frying  4765726d616e79s  by  the  hundreds  and  got  sick  from  the  grease,.  What  was  worse,  Edgar  had  to  contend  with  hundreds  of  patrons  who  demanded  radio  time  and  old  regulars  who  expected  special  consid-  eration,  and  soon  he  was  hounded  by  musicians,  singers,  actors,  poets,  come-  dians,  and  entertainers  of  every  stripe,  who  saw  radio  as  their  chance  to  be  presented  at  last  to  the  [REDACTED]  audi-  ence.  These  included  some  good  ones  who  later  became  famous:  Whistling  Jim  Wheeler  and  His  All-Boy  Band,  Elsie  and  Johnny,  &quot;Ice  Cream&quot;  Cohen,  Norma  Neilsen  and  Fargo  Bill,  the  Or-  phan  Girls  Quartet,  and  many  more.  But  most  of  them  were  the  others-the  child  elocutionists,  yodellers,  mandolin  bands,  gospel-singing  families,  people  who  did  barnyard  sounds  and  train  imitations,  and  dozens  of  Autoharp  players,  all  of  whom  had  to  be  refused,  some  of  them  repeatedly.  &quot;We  have  opened  a  Pandora's  [REDACTED];  Edgar  said,  &quot;and  now  everyone  and  his  brother  is  trying  to  get  into  it.&quot;  At  first,  Edgar  was  puzzled  by  the  performers'  ambition,  and  then,  as  he  brooded  on  it,  he  became  wary,  and  at  last  a  fear  took  hold  of  him  that  never  let  go  for  the  rest  of  his  life.  He  de-  cided  that,  while  most  people  were  harmless,  some  (&quot;and  it  only  takes  one&quot;)  were  not.  He  imagined  that  they  were  driven  by  a  desire  to  ruin  him  by  doing  something  awful  on  his  radio  sta-  tion-a  vulgar  remark  shouted  by  a  stranger  in  the  audience,  an  off-color  story,  perhaps  filth  in  a  foreign  lan-  guage.  He  saw  someone  latching  onto  the  microphone,  wresting  it  away  from  Clarence,  and  saying  something-  something  so  repulsive,  crude,  and  vile  as  to  make  his  name  Mud  in  thousands  of  homes,  including  the  Pillsburys'.  They  would  never  be  seen  in  a  place  where  things  like  that  were  allowed.  &quot;We  are  helpless,&quot;  he  told  Roy.  &quot;We  work  ourselves  sick  to  make  a  good  restaurant,  and  now  the  kitchen  is  a  hellhole,  and  the  sandwiches  I  wouldn't  feed  to  a  dog,  and  now  any-  one  who  wants  to  could  walk  in  and  put  us  out  of  business  in  a  minute.&quot;  Edgar  swung  into  action.  He  hired  a  young  English  teacher,  Miss  Phelps,  to  observe  the  audience  for  any  who  appeared  agitated.  The  public-speaking  time  was  limited  strictly  tofifteen  min-  utes  in  the  morning  and  a  half  hour  in  the  afternoon,  and  Roy  Jr.  was  in-  structed  to  keep  a  hand  on  the  switch  at  those  periods  and  be  ready  to  throw  it  instantly.  Edgar  hired  two  announcers,  " b"big  sturdy  fellows,  andshowed  them  how  to  keep  both  feet  planted  during  interviews  and  how  to  place  one  hand  on  the  person's  shoulder  so  asto  have  good  leverage  if  push  came  to  shove.  He  wrote  up  a  WLT  code  covering  all  aspects  of  broadcasting  (&quot;The  Principles  of  Radiation&quot;  ),  and  he  made  all  performers  agree  to  it.  It  included  a  dress  code,  &quot;Subjects  To  Be  Avoid-  ed,&quot;  and  &quot;Regulations  Concerning  Music.&quot;  &quot;'By  the  grace  of  God,  it  is  given  to  us  to  cast  our  bread  on  distant  waters,'  &quot;  he  wrote  in  the  code.  &quot;  'See  then  that  ye  walk  circumspectly,  not  as  fools,  but  aswise.&quot;  Eph.  5:15.&quot;  And  he  drew  up  a  program  schedule  and  or-  dered  that  it  be  followed,  no  exceptions:  10:30Piano  Prelude.  10:45  The  Homemakers  Hour.  11:00  Morning  Musicale.  11:45  Meet  Your  Neighbors.  12:00  Let's  Sing!  12:30  Orchestral  Interlude.  12:45  The  [REDACTED]  Tuxedo  Trio  Hour.  100  Let's  Get  Together.  :30  Orchestral  Interlude.  :45  Scripture  Nugget.  :05  Miss  Lily  Dale.  :20  Up  in  a  Balloon.  :35  The  Classroom  of  the  Air.  :00  Obituaries  and  Notices.  :10  The  Story  Hour.  125  Piano  Postlude.  to  GoGJ  h)RJRJ+aka  ga  Gone  forever  were  the  days  when  Clarence  might  reminisce  about  his  Wis-  consin  boyhood  for  ten  minutes  until  the  missing  sheet  music  was  found,  or  the  Trio  repeat  the  verses  of  &quot;The  Lost  Chord,&quot;  or  Evelyn  Wills  Duvaliercarry  on  endless  impromptu  piano  variations  because  nobody  knew  what  was  supposed  to  happen  next,  or  when  a  per-  son  in  the  audience  might  rise  to  give  a  demonstration  of  cow-calling.  S$  WLT  neared  the  end  of  its  first  decade,  Ed-  gar  turned  over  the  man-  agement  to  Roy  Jr.  He  was  tired  of  listening  to  the  ra-  dio  for  five  hours  everyday  and  worrying  that  someone  (the  same  old  someone,  who  hadn't  turned  up  yet  but  was  only  prolonging  the  suspense)  would  go  over  the  edge  and  give  him  a  good  solid  heart  attack.  He  didn't  care  much  for  WLT.  The  Trio  mumbled  words,  and  Miss  Lily  Dale  sounded  like  a  goat,  and  nobody  sang  the  songs  that  he  wanted  to  hear,  And  it  was  more  tire-  some  to  listen  now  that  he  was  getting  hard  of  hearing.  Roy  Jr.  had  built  him  a  receiver  so  powerful  that  it  rattled  windows,  and  another  one  was  installed  in  his  Buick  (the  first  car  radio  in  [REDACTED])  which  could  be  heard  for  blocks.  People  complained  to  the  police.  Edgar  was  always  switching  the  darned  thing  off,  but  he  was  uneasy  with  it  off,  and  he  was  always  turning  it  back  on.  To  give  him  a  rest,  Roy  Jr.  scheduled  a  fifteen-minute  newscast  at  one  o'clock,  Edgar's  naptime;  Edgar  appreciated  the  gesture,  but  every  day  he  expected  someone  to  put  in  an  appearance.  One  show  that  always  lifted  his  spirits  (and  that  he  himself  sponsored)  was  &quot;Up  in  a  Balloon,&quot;  with  Vince  [REDACTED]  and  his  wife,  Sheridan  Thomas,  playing  the  parts  of  Bud  and  Bessie,  a  wealthy  [REDACTED]  couple  who  roam  the  earth  in  a  luxurious  balloon,  seeking  adventure.  Edgar  loved  the  show  less  for  the  dialogue,  which  was  quite  ordinary,  than  for  the  sound  ef-  fects,  which  Vince  spent  days  and  weeks  perfecting.  The  balloon  format  was  well  suited  to  Vince's  perfection-  ism,  for  it  allowed  the  couple  to  spend  long  periods  in  the  stratosphere,  which  required  only  the  creaking  of  the  gon-  dola  (a  horse  halter)  and  the  sighing  wind  (one  of  the  Tuxedo  Trio,  or  any-  one  handy),  along  with  a  spoken  de-  scription  of  the  scenery  below,  while  Vince  planned  the  effects  for  their  next  descent.  WLT's  modest  budget  did  not  permit  the  balloon  to  visit  cities  (there  weren't  enough  staff  members  on  hand  to  provide  hubbub),  and  so  its  descents  tended  to  be  emergency  land-  ings  in  isolated  regions.  Even  at  that,  Bud  and  Bessie  crashed  several  times  in  the  Arctic  Circle  before  Vince  was  satis-  fied  with  his  glacier  effect,  which  was  first  an  aluminum  cookie  tin  (plied  by  Clarence)  and  then  a  bag  of  rock  salt  that  was  put  through  a  meat  grinder;  finally,  he  hit  on  the  idea  of  rolling  a  basketball  containing  a  microphone  along  a  bed  of  gravel.  Likewise,  he  experimented  for  weeks  to  produce  dripping  rain  on  the  leaves  of  a  trop-  ical  forest,  the  shifting  sands  of  the  [REDACTED],  and  the  pounding  surf  at  Wai-  kiki  (fifty  pounds  of  oats  and  a  wheel-  barrow  ).  Hundreds  of  new  effects  were  sub-  sequently  created,  many  of  them  sub-  mitted  by  listeners,  who  strove  to  sur-  pass  each  other  with  stranger  and  more  exotic  adventures:  a  wave  of  molten  lava  destroying  agrain  elevator,  an  army  marching  across  thin  ice,  Bud  and  Bessie  climbing  the  Eiffel  Tower  using  suction  cups,  and  (Edgar's  in-  vention)  Bud  and  Bessie  throwing  their  radio  into  the  Grand  Canyon  during  a  broadcast  of  &quot;Carmen&quot;  (the  Court  Orchestra  seated  on  a  freight  cart,  a  portable  tile  wall,  and  an  alarm  clock).  It  was  the  invention  of  a  dis-  illusioned  man  with  agreat  deal  of  leisure  time.  The  Depression  years,  in  fact,  were  unhappy  ones  for  Edgar.  His  doctors  ordered  him  to  stay  away  from  the  Court  and  to  avoid  those  WLT  programs  that  made  him  anxious  (he  was  more  anxious,  though,  when  he  couldn't  hear  them).  De-  nied  even  the  egg  salad  sandwich,  his  favorite,  he  took  to  his  bed  in  thebig  house  on  Lake  Calhoun,  and  sulked  at  nurses.  Once,  he  tried  to  return  the  WLT  license  to  the  government,  and,  failing  at  that,  changed  his  will  to  make  the  Pills-  bury  Company  his  benefici-  ary.  He  was  not,  as  Roy  Jr.  later  proved  in  court,  a  man  of  sound  mind.  On  October  12,  1940,  his  birthday,  Edgar  lay  in  bed  and  listened  to  &quot;A  Sa-  lute  to  Edgar  Elmore&quot;  on  WLT-all  five  hours  of  it,.  Beginning  with  &quot;Piano  " b"Prelude,&quot;  all  of  the  music  programs  featured  his  fa-  vorite  songs,  and  Lucille  Larson  gave  the  original  egg  salad  recipe  on  &quot;The  Homemakers  Hour.&quot;  The  neighbors  on  &quot;Meet  Your  Neighbors&quot;  were  his  friends;  the  &quot;Scripture  Nugget,&quot;  read  by  the  Rev.  Irving  James  Knox,  was  Edgar's  beloved  I  Corinthi-  ans  10;  the  story  on  &quot;The  Story  Hour&quot;  was  his  own  life  story.  But  the  highlight  surely  was  &quot;Up  in  a  Bal-  loon,&quot;  for  Vince  had  gone  all  out.  The  episode,  en-  titled  &quot;Bud  and  Bessie  Visit  the  Old  Testament,&quot;  in-  cluded  the  Creation,  the     destruction  of  Sodom  and  Gomorrah,  and  the  parting  of  the  Red  Sea  (ten  quarts  of  motor  oil  and  an  upright  vacuum  cleaner).  The  five  hours  were  an  eternity  to  Edgar.  He  was  positive  that  someone  had  chosen  this  day,  his  day,  to  pull  a  fast  one.  As  the  last  notes  of  &quot;Piano  Postlude&quot;  died  out  (&quot;Lead,  Kindly  Light&quot;),  he  turned  to  Roy  and  said,  &quot;I  can't  go  through  this  again.&quot;  He  passed  away  exactly  one  month  later.  HE  dread  event  that  Edgar  waited  fifteen  years  for  occurred  finally  on  August  7,  1942.  It  happened  to  Vince  [REDACTED],  during  &quot;The  Story  Hour.&quot;  On  that  day,  Vince,  as  &quot;Grandpa  Sam,&quot;  sat  down  in  &quot;the  old  easy  chair,&quot;  invited  his  young  listeners  to  gather  close  round  their  radios,  and  picked  up  the  script  and  began  to  read.  It  didn't  take  him  long  to  realize  that  someone  had  slipped  him  a  wrong  story,  a  story  that  began,  &quot;I  was  born  twenty-seven  years  ago  in  a  place  called  Northfield,  [REDACTED],  the  dull-  est  little  burg  in  the  dullest  state  in  the  Union,  and  as  soon  as  I  was  old  enough  to  earn  the  train  fare,I  set  out  to  see  what  life  was  all  about.&quot;  Vince  swallowed  hard  and  con-  tinued.  The  story  was  the  &quot;confession&quot;  of  a  young  man  named  Frank  who  gains  wealth  in  [REDACTED]  and  takes  up  with  a  dark  Paraguayan  beauty  named  Pabletta,  whose  breasts  are  pale  and  small  and  shiver  at  the  thrill  of  his  touch.  Slowly,  his  voice  shaking  with  the  effort,  Vince  picked  his  way  through  the  story,  glancing  ahead  as  he  read  and  skirting  the  obvious  out-  rages,  but  some  things  escaped  his  eye     until  he  was  right  on  top  of  them.  These  he  read  quickly,  adding,  &quot;Of  course,  I  knew  I  should  not  have  done  this,&quot;  or  &quot;Something  told  me  that  someday  I  would  be  punished.&quot;  The  writer  of  the  story  had  certainly  tied  it  together  tightly-you  had  to  give  him  credit  for  that.  Finally,  with  ten  minutes  left,  Vince  arrived  at  an  episode  that  seemed  to  lead  the  story  in  a  direction  that  could  not  be  pursued  any  further.  Now,  Vince  was  a  script  man  through  and  through,  and  hated  to  speak  impromp-  tu,  but  he  put  the  story  aside  and  rose  to  the  occasion.  In  a  sad  and  weary  voice,  he  confessed  his  sinful  pride  and  sensual  nature,  and  begged  the  forgive-  ness  of  his  family.  He  denounced  the  evil  influence  of  movies  and  modern  novels.  He  announced  that  the  beauti-  ful  Pabletta  had  died  beneath  the  wheels  of  a  truck.  &quot;'Today,  doctors  tell  me  that  I  have  but  weeks  to  live,  my  body  ravaged  by  a  disease  without  a  name,&quot;  he  added,  and  concluded  with  an  appeal  to  all  within  the  sound  of  his  voice  to  consider  prayerfully  what  would  be  the  outcome  of  their  ways.  &quot;Repent!  Repent!&quot;  he  cried,  and  col-  lapsed  in  tears  just  as  the  sweep  hand  approached  twelve.  &quot;That's  all  for  to-  day.  Be  sure  to  join  Grandpa  Sam  to-  morrow  at  the  same  time  for  another exciting  story,&quot;  the  announcer  said,  and  Evelyn  Wills  Duvalier  played  &quot;Just  As  I  Am&quot;  from  memory,  for  &quot;Piano  Postlude.&quot;  After  that,  the  scripts  were  guarded  closely  by  Miss  Phelps,  who  kept  them  hidden  on  her  person  and  proofread  each  one  at  the  last  moment  before  broadcast.  As  an  extra  precaution  for  his  own  peace  of  mind,Vince  wrote  an  emergency  &quot;Story  Hour&quot;  script,  which  he  kept  in  an  inside  coat  pocket  and  could  switch  toat  any  point,  and  which  began,  &quot;But  enough  about  that.  Let's  get  on  to  today's  main  story,  which  concerns  a  young  boy  named  Jim  and  his  dog  Buster.&quot;  This  script,  never  used,  lies  today,  yellow  and  stained,  in  the  back  of  the  loose-leaf  copybook  in  the  main  WLT  studio.  T  wo  generations  of  WLT  announcers  have  revised  the  story  in  their  spare  time,  polishing  the  dialogue,  fleshing  out  the  plot,  introducing  new  characters,  in-  cluding  Pabletta  and  her  friend  Ramon,  and  it  is  said  to  be  quite  good-though  not,of  course,  suitable  for  broadcast.  "