 b"HALFWAY  between  our  two  great  wars,  parents  whose  own  early  years  had  been  shaped  with  Edwardian  firmness  were  apt  to  lend  a  tone  of  finality  to  quite  simple  remarks:  &quot;Because  I  say  so&quot;  was  the  answer  to  &quot;Why?,&quot;  and  a  child's  re-  sponse  to  &quot;What  did  I  just  tell  you?&quot;  could  seldom  be  anything  but  &quot;Not  to&quot;&quot;-not  to  say,  do,  touch,  remove,  go  out,  argue,  reject,  eat,  pick  up,  open,  shout,  appear  to  sulk,  appear  to  be  cross.  Dark  riddles  filled  the  corners  of  life  because  no  enlightenment  was  thought  required.  Asking  questions  was  &quot;being  tiresome,&quot;  while  persistent  curiosity  got  one  nowhere,  at  least  nowhere  of  interest.  How  much  has  changed?  Observe  the  drift  of  words  descending  from  adult  to  child  -the  fall  of  personal  questions,  observations,  unnecessary  instructions.  Before  long  the  listener  seems  blanketed.  He  must  hear  the  voice  as  authority  muffled,  a  hum  through  snow.  The  tone  has  changed-it  may  be  coaxing,  even  plaintive-but  the  words  have  barely  altered.  They  still  claim  the  ancient  right-of-way  through  a  young  life.  \xc2\xab&quot;Well,  old  cock,&quot;  said  my  father's  friend  [REDACTED]  McEwen,  meeting  him  one  Saturday  in  [REDACTED].  &quot;How's  [REDACTED]  taking  life  in  the  country?&quot;  Apparently  no  one  had  expected  my  mother  to  accept  the  country  in  winter.  &quot;Well,  old  cock,&quot;  I  repeated  to  a  country  neighbor,  Mr.  Bainwood.  &quot;How's  life?&quot;  What  do  you  suppose  it  meant  to  me,  other  than  a  kind  of  weathervane?  Mr.  Bainwood  thought  it  over,  then  came  round  to  our  house  and  complained  to  my  mother.  &quot;It  isn't  blasphemy,&quot;  she  said,  not  letting  him  have  much  satisfaction  from  the  complaint.  Still,  I  had  to  apologize.  &quot;I'm  sorry&quot;  was  a  ritual  habit  with  even  less  meaning  than  &quot;old  cock.&quot;  &quot;Never  say  that  again,&quot;  my  mother  said  after  he  had  gone.  &quot;Why  not?&quot;  &quot;Because  I've  just  told  you  not  to.&quot;  &quot;What  does  it  mean?&quot;  &quot;Nothing.&quot;  It  must  have  been  after  yet  another  &quot;nothing&quot;  that  one  summer's  day  I  ran  screaming  around  a  garden,  tore  the  heads  off  tulips,  and-no,  let  an-  other  voice  finish  it;  the  only  authentic  voices  I  have  belong  to  the  dead:  &quot;.  ..  then  she  ate  them.&quot;  IT  was  my  father's  custom  if  he  took  me  with  him  to  visit  a  friend  on  Saturdays  not  to  say  where  we  were  going.  He  was  more  taciturn  than  any  man  I  have  known  since,  but  that  wasn't  all  of  it;  being  young,  I  was  the  last  person  to  whom  anyone  owed  an  explanation.  These  Saturdays  have  turned  into  one  whitish  afternoon,  a  windless  snowfall,  a  steep  street.  Two  persons  descend  the  street,  stepping  carefully.,  The  child,  reminded  every  day  to  keep  her  hands  still,  gesticulates  wildly-there  is  the  flash  of  a  red  mit-  ten.  I  will  never  overtake  this  pair.  Their  voices  are  lost  in  snow.  We  were  living  in  what  used  to  be  called  the  country  and  is  now  a  suburb  of  [REDACTED].  On  Saturdays  my  father  and  I  came  in  together  by  train.  I  went  to  the  doctor,  the  dentist,  to  my  German  lesson.  After  that  I  had  to  get  back  to  Windsor  Station  by  myself  and  on  time.  My  father  gave  me  a  boy's  watch  so  that  the  dial  would  be  good  and  large.  I  remember  the  No.  83  streetcar  trundling  downhill  and  my-  self,  wondering  if  the  watch  was  slow,  asking  strangers  to  tell  me  the  hour.  Inevitably-how  could  it  have  been  otherwise?-after  his  death,  which  would  not  be  long  in  coming,  I  would  dream  that  someone  important  had  taken  a  train  without  me.  My  route  to  the  meeting  place-deviated,  betrayed  by  stopped  clocks-was  always  down-  hill.  As  soon  as  I  was  old  enough  to  understand  from  my  reading  of  myths  and  legends  that  this  journey  was  a  pursuit  of  darkness,  its  terminal  point  a  sunless  underworld,  the  dream  van-  ished.  Sometimes  I  would  be  taken  along  to  lunch  with  one  or  another  of  my  father's  friends.  He  would  meet  the  friend  at  Pauze's  for  oysters  or  at  Drury's  or  the  Windsor  Grill.  The  friend  would  more  often  than  not  be  Scottish-  or  English-sounding,  and  they  would  talk  as  if  I  were  invisible,  as  [REDACTED]  McEwen  had  done,  and  eat  what  I  thought  of  as  English  food-  grilled  kidneys,  sweetbreads-which  I  was  too  finicky  to  touch.  Both  my  par-  ents  had  been  made  wretched  as  chil-  dren  by  having  food  forced  on  them  and  so  that  particular  torture  was  never  inflicted  on  me.  However,  the  manner  in  which  I  ate  was  subject  to  precise  at-  tention.  My  father  disapproved  of  the  [REDACTED]  American  custom  that  he  called  &quot;spearing&quot;  (knife  laid  on  the  plate,  fork  in  the  right  hand  ).  My  mother's  eye  was  out  for  a  straight  back,  in-  " b"visible  chewing,  small  mouthfuls,  im-  mobile  silence  during  the  interminable  adult  loafing  over  dessert.  My  mother  did  not  careforfood.  If  we  were  alone  together,  she  would  sit  smoking  and  reading,  sipping  black  coffee,  her  elbows  used  as  props-a  posture  that  would  have  called  for  instant  banish-  ment  had  I  so  much  as  tried  it.  Being  constantly  observed  and  corrected  was  like  having  a  fly  buzzing  around  one's  plate.  At  Pauze's,  the  only  child,  per-  haps  the  only  female,  I  sat  up  to  an  oak  counter  and  ate  oysters  quite  neat,  ly,  not  knowing  exactly  what  they  were  and  certainly  not  that  they  were  alive.  They  were  served  as  in  &quot;The  Walrus  and  the  Carpenter,&quot;  with  bread  and  butter,  pepper  and  vinegar.  Dessert  was  a  chocolate  biscuit-plates  of  them  stood  at  intervals  along  the  counter.  When  my  father  and  I  ate  alone,  I  was  not  required  to  say  much,  nor  could  I  expect  a  great  deal  in  the  way  of  response.  After  I  had  been  ad-  dressing  him  for  minutes,  sometimes  he  would  suddenly  come  to  life  and  I  would  know  he  had  been  elsewhere.  &quot;Of  course  I've  been  listening,&quot;  he  would  protest,  and  he  would  repeat  by  way  of  proof  the  last  few  words  of  whatever  it  was  I'd  been  saying.  He  was  seldom  present.  I  don't  know  where  my  father  spent  his  waking  life:  just  elsewhere.  What  was  he  doing  alone  with  a  child?  Where  was  his  wife?  In  the  country,  reading.  She  read  one  book  after  another  without  looking  up,  with-  out  scraping  away  the  frost  on  the  windows.  &quot;The  Russians,  you  know,  the  Russians,&quot;  she  said  to  her  mother  andme,  glancing  around  in  the  drugged  way  adolescent  readers  have.  &quot;They  put  salt  on  the  windowsills  in  winter.&quot;  Yes,  so  they  did,in  the  nineteenth  cen-  tury,  in  the  boyhood  of  Turgenev,  of  Tolstoy.  The  salt  absorbed  the  mois-  ture  between  two  sets  of  windows  sealed  shut  for  half  the  year.  She  must  have  been  in  a  Russian  country  house  at  that  moment,  surrounded  by  a  large  Russian  family,  living  out  vast  Rus-  sian  complications.  The  flat  white  fields  beyond  her  imaginary  windows  were  like  the  flat  white  fields  she  would  have  observed  if  only  she  had  looked  out.  She  was  myopic;  the  pupil  when  she  had  been  reading  seemed  to  be  the  whole  of  the  eye.  What  age  was  she  then?  Twenty-seven,  twenty-eight.  Her  husband  had  removed  her  to  the  country;  now  that  they  were  there  he  seldom  spoke.  How  young  she  seems  to  me  now  -half  twenty-eight  in  percep-  tion  and  feeling,  but  with  a  husband,  a  child,  a  house,  a  life,  an  illiterate  maid  from  the  village  whose  life  she  con-  fidently  interfered  with  and  misman-  aged,  a  small  zoo  of  animals  she  al-  ternately  cherished  and  forgot;  and  she  was  the  daughter  of  such  a  sensible,  truthful,  pessimistic  woman-pessimis-  tic  in  the  way  women  become  when  they  settle  for  what  actually  exists.  Our  rooms  were  not  Russian-they  were  aired  every  day  and  the  salt  be-  came  a  great  nuisance,  blowing  in  on  the  floor.  &quot;There,  [REDACTED],  what  did  I  tell  you?&quot;  my  grandmother  said.  This  grandmother  did  not  care  for  dreams  or  for  children.  If  I  sensed  the  first,  I  had  no  hint  of  the  latter.  Out  of  decency  she  kept  it  quiet,  at  least  in  a  child's  presence.  She  had  the  rep-  utation,  sharedwith  a  long-vanished  nurse  named  Olivia,  of  being  able  to  &quot;do  anything&quot;  with  me,  which  merely  meant  an  ability  to  provoke  from  a  child  behavior  convenient  for  adults.  It  was  she  who  taught  me  to  eat  in  the  Continental  way,  with  both  hands  in  sight  at  all  times  upon  the  table,  and  who  made  me  sit  at  meals  with  books  under  my  arms  so  I  would  learn  not  to  stick  out  my  elbows.  I  remember  hav-  ing  accepted  this  nonsense  from  her  without  a  traceof  resentment.  Like  Olivia,  she  could  make  the  most  point-  less  sort  of  training  seem  a  natural  way  of  life.  (I  think  that  as  discipline  goes  this  must  be  the  most  dangerous  form  of  all.)  She  was  one  of  three  godpar-  ents  I  had-the  important  one.  It  is  im-  possible  for  me  to  enter  the  mind  of  this  agnostic  who  taught  me  prayers,  who  had  already  shed  every  remnant  of  belief  when  she  committed  me  at  the  font.  I  know  that  she  married  late  and  reluctantly;  she  would  have  pre-  ferred  a  life  of  solitude  and  independ-  ence,  next  to  impossible  for  a  woman  in  her  time.  She  had  the  positive  voice  of  the  born  teacher,  sharp  manners,  quick  blue  eyes,  and  the  square,  mas-  sive  figure  common  to  both  lines  of  her  ancestry-the  West  of  [REDACTED],  the  [REDACTED]  of  [REDACTED].  When  she  said  &quot;There,  [REDACTED],  what  did  I  tell  you?&quot;  without  obtaining  an  an-  swer,  it  summed  up  mother  and  daugh-  ter  both.  My  father's  friend  Malcolm  Whit-  more  was  the  second  godparent.  He  quarrelled  with  my  mother  when  she  said  something  flippant  about  Mussolini,  " b"disappeared,  died  in  Europe  some  years  later,  though  perhaps  not  fighting  for  Franco,  as  my  mother  had  it.  She  often  rewrote  other  people's  lives,  providing  them  with  suitable  and  harmonious  endings.  In  her  version  of  events  you  were  supposed  to  die  as  you'd  lived.  He  would  write  sometimes,  asking  me,  &quot;Have  you  been  confirmed  yet?&quot;  He  had  never  really  held  a  place  and  could  not  by  dying  leave  agap.  The  third  godparent  was  a  young  woman  named  Georgie  [REDACTED].  She  was  my  moth-  er's  choice,  for  a  long  time  her  confi-  dante,  partisan,  and  close  sympathizer.  Something  happened,  and  they  stopped  seeing  each  other.  Georgie  was  not  her  real  name-it  was  Edna  May.  One  of  the  reasons  she  had  fallen  out  with  my  mother  was  that  I  had  not  been  called  Edna  May  too.  Apparently,  this  had  been  promised.  ITHOUT  saying  where  we  were  going,  my  father  took  me  along  to  visit  Georgie  one  Saturday  afternoon.  &quot;You  didn't  say  you  were  bring-  ing  Linnet&quot;  was  how  she  greeted  him.  We  stood  in  the  passage  of  a  long,  hot,  high-ceilinged  apartment,  treading  snow  water  into  the  rug.  He  said,  &quot;Well,  she  is  your  god-  child,  and  she  has  been  ill.&quot;  My  godmother  shut  the  front  door  and  leaned  her  back  against  it.  It  is  in  this  surprisingly  dramatic  pose  that  I  recall  her.  It  would  be  unfair  to  repeat  what  I  think  I  saw  then,  for  she  and  I  were  to  meet  again  once,  only  once,  many  years  after  this,  and  I  might  sub-  stitute  a  lined  face  for  a  smooth  one  and  tough,  large-knuckled  hands  for  fingers  that  may  havebeen  delicate.  One  has  to  allow  elbowroom  in  the  account  of  a  rival:  &quot;She  must  have  had  something&quot;  is  how  it  generally  goes,  long  after  the  initial  &quot;What  can  he  see  in  her?  He  must  be  deaf  and  blind.&quot;  Georgie,  ex-  plained  by  my  mother  as  being  the  nat-  ural  daughter  of  Sarah  Bernhardt  and  a  stork,  is  only  a  shadow,  a  tracing,  with  long  arms  and  legs  and  one  of  those  slightly  puggy  faces  with  pulled-  up  eyes.  Her  voice  remains-the  husky  Vir-  ginia-tobacco  whisper  I  associate  with  so  many  women  of  that  generation,  my  parents'  friends;  it  must  have  come  of  age  in  English  [REDACTED]  around  1920,  when  girls  began  to  cut  their  hair  and  to  smoke.  In  middle  life  the  voice  would  slide  from  low  to  harsh,  and  de-  velop  a  chronic  cough.  For  the  moment  it  was  fascinating  to  me-opposite  in  pitch  and  speed  from  my  mother's,  which  was  slightly  too  high  and  apt  to  break  off,like  that  of  a  singer  unable  to  sustain  a  long  note.  It  was  truethat  I  had  been  ill,  but  I  don't  think  my  godmother  made  much  of  it  that  afternoon,  other  than  saying,  &quot;It's  all  very  well  to  talk  about  that  now,  but  I  was  certainly  never  told  much,  and  as  for  that  doctor,  you  ought  to  just  hear  what  Ward  thinks.&quot;  Out  of  this  whispered  jumble  my  moth-  er  stood  accused-of  many  transgres-  sions,  certainly,  but  chiefly  of  having  discarded  Dr.  Ward  Mackey,  every-  one's  doctor  and  a  family  friend.  At  the   time  of  my  birth  my  mother  had  all  at  once  decided  she  liked  Ward  Mackey  better  than  anyone  else  and  had  asked  him  to  choose  a  name  for  me.  He  could  not  think  of  one,  or,  rather,  thought  of  too  many,  and  finally  consulted  his  own  mother.  She  had  always  longed  for  a  daughter,  so  that  she  could  call  her  after  the  heroine  ofa  novel  by,  I  believe,  Marie  Corelli.  The  legend  so  often  repeated  to  me  goes  on  to  tell  that  when  I  was  seven  weeks  old  my  father  suddenly  asked,  &quot;What  did  you  say  her  name  was?&quot;  &quot;Votre  fille  a  frol\xc3\xa9  la  phtisie,&quot;  the  new  doctor  had  said,  the  one  who  had  now  replaced  Dr.  Mackey.  The  new  doctor  was  known  to  me  as  Uncle  Raoul,  though  we  were  not  related.  This  manner  of  declaring  my  brush  with  consumption  was  worlds  away  from  Ward  Mackey's  &quot;subject  to  bil-  ious  attacks.&quot;  Mackey's  objections  to  " b"Uncle  Raoul  were  neither  envious  nor  personal,  for  Mackey  was  the  sort  of  bachelor  who  could  console  himself  with  golf.  The  Protestant  in  him  truly  believed  those  other  doctors  to  be  poor-  ly  trained  and  superstitious,  capable  of  recommending  the  pulling  of  teeth  to  cure  tonsillitis,  and  of  letting  their  pa-  tients  cough  to  death  or  perish  from  septicemia  just  through  Catholic  fatal-  ism.  What  parent  could  fail  to  gasp  and  marvel  at  Uncle  Raoul's  announce,  ment?  Any  but  either  of  mine.  My  mother  could  invent  and  produce  bet-  ter  dramasany  day;  as  for  my  father,  his  French  wasn't  all  that  good  and  he  had  to  have  it  explained.  Once  he  understood  that  I  had  grazed  the  edge  of  tuberculosis,  he  made  his  decision  to  remove  us  all  to  the  country,  which  he  had  been  wanting  a  reason  to  do  for  some  time.  He  was,  I  think,  attempt-  ing  to  isolate  his  wife,  but  by  taking  her  out  of  the  city  he  exposed  her  to  a  dan- ger  that,  being  English,  he  had  never  dreamed  of:  this  was  the  heart-stop-  ping  cry  of  the  steam  train  at  night,  sweeping  across  a  frozen  river,  clatter-  ing  on  the  ties  of  a  wooden  bridge.  From  our  separate  rooms  my  mother  and  I  heard  the  unrivalled  summons,  the  long,  urgent,  uniquely  [REDACTED]  American  beckoning.  She  would  follow  and  so  would  I,  but  separately,  years  and  desires  and  destinations  apart.  I  think  that  women  once  pledged  in  such  a  manner  are  more  steadfast  than  men.  &quot;Froler'&quot;  was  the  charmed  word  in  that  winter's  story;  it  was  a  hand  brushing  the  edge  of  folded  silk,  a  leaf  escaping  a  spiderweb.  Being  caught  in  the  web  would  have  meant  staying  in  bed  day  and  night  in  a  place  even  worse  than  a  convent  school.  [REDACTED]  and  Angus,  whose  lives  had  once  seemed  so  enchanted,  so  fortunate  and  free  that  I  could  not  imagine  lesser  persons  so  much  as  eatingthe  same  kind  of  toast  for  breakfast,  had  to  share  their  lives  with  me,  whether  they  wanted  to  or  not-thanks  to  Uncle  Raoul,  who  always  supposed  me  to  be  their  principal  delight.  I  had  been  standing  on  one  foot  for  months  now,  midway  between  froler  and  falling  into,  propped  up  by  a  psychosomatic  guardian  angel.  Of  course  I  could  not  stand  that  way  forever;  inevitably  my  health  improved  and  before  long  I  was  declared  out  of  danger  and  then  re-  stored-to  the  relief  and  pleasure  of  all  except  the  patient.  &quot;I'd  like  to  see  more  of  you  than  eyes  and  nose,&quot;  said  my  godmother.  &quot;Take  off  your  things.&quot;  I  offer  this  as  an  example  of  unnecessary  instruction.  Would  anyone  over  the  age  of  three  prepare  to  spend  the  afternoon  in  a  stifling  room  wrapped  like  a  mummy  in  outdoor  clothes?  &quot;She's  smaller  than  she  looks,&quot;  Georgie  remarked,  as  I  be-  gan  to  emerge.  This  authentic  god-  mother  observation  drives  me  to  my  only  refuge,  the  insistence  that  she  must  " b"have  had  something-he  could  not  havebeen  completely  deaf  and  blind.  Divested  of  hat,  scarf,  coat,  overshoes,  and  leggings,  grasping  the  handkerchief  pressed  in  my  hand  so  I  would  not  in-  terrupt  later  by  asking  for  one,  re-  sponding  to  my  father's  muttered  &quot;Fix  your  hair,&quot;  struck  by  the  command  be-  cause  it  was  he  who  had  told  me  not  to  use  &quot;fix&quot;  in  that  sense,  I  was  finally  able  to  sit  down  next  to  him  on  a  white  sofa.  My  godmother  occupied  its  twin.  A  low  table  stood  between,  bearing  a  decanter  and  glasses  and  a  pile  of  mag-  azines  and,  of  course,  Georgie's  ash-  trays;  I  think  she  smoked  even  more  than  my  mother  did.  On  one  of  these  sofas,  during  an  earlier  visit  with  my  mother  and  fa-  ther,  the  backs  of  my  dangling  feet  had  left  a  smudge  of  shoe  polish.  It  may  have  been  the  last  occasion  when  my  mother  and  Georgie  were  ever  to-  gether.  Directed  tostop  humming  and  kicking,  and  perhaps  bored  with  the  con-  versation  in  which  I  was  not  expected  to  join,  I  had  soon  started  up  again.  &quot;It  doesn't  matter,&quot;  my  godmother  said,  though  you  could  tell  she  minded.  &quot;Sit  up,&quot;  my  father  said  to  me. &quot; I  am  sitting  up.  W  hat  do  you  think  I'm  doing?&quot;  This  was  not  answering  but  answering  back;  itis  not  an  expres-  sion  I  ever  heard  from  my  father,  but  I  am  certain  it  stood  like  astalled  truck  in  Georgie's  mind.  She  wore  the  look  people  put  on  when  they  are  thinking,  Now  what  are  you  spineless  parents  go-  ing  to  do  about  that?  &quot;Oh,  for  God's  sake,  she's  only  a  child,&quot;  said  my  mother,  as  though  that  had  ever  been  an  excuse  for  anything.  Soon  after  the  sofa-kicking  incident  she  and  Georgie  moved  into  the  hiber-  nation  known  as  &quot;not  speaking.&quot;  This,  the  lingering  condition  of  half  my  mother's  friendships,  usually  followed  her  having  said  the  very  thing  no  one  wanted  to  hear,  such  as  &quot;Who  wants  to  be  called  Edna  May,  anyway?&quot;  Once  more  in  the  hot  pale  room  where  there  was  nothing  to  do  and  nothing  for  children,  I  offended  my  godmother  again,  by  pretending  I  had  never  seen  her  before.  The  spot  I  had  kicked  was  pointed  out  to  me,  though,  owing  to  new  slipcovers,  real  evidence  was  missing.  My  father  was  proud  of  my  quite  surprising  memory,  of  its  long  backward  reach  and  the  minutiae  of  detail  I  could  describe.  My  failure  now  to  shine  in  a  domain  where  I  was  naturally  gifted,  that  did  not  require  lessons  or  create  litter  and  noise,  must  have  annoyed  him.  I  also  see  that  my  guileless-seeming  needling  of  my  god-  mother  was  a  close  adaptation  of  how  my  mother  could  be,  and  I  attribute  it  to  a  child's  instinctive  loyalty  to  the  absent  one.  Giving  me  up,  my  god-  mother  placed  a  silver  dish  of  mint  wafers  where  I  could  reach  them-  white,  pink,  and  green,  overlapping-  and  suggested  I  look  at  a  magazine.  Whatever  the  magazine  was,  I  had  probably  seen  it,  for  my  mother  sub-  scribed  to  everything  then.  I  may  have  turned  the  pages  anyway,  in  case  at  home  something  had  been  censored  for  children.  I  felt  and  am  certain  I  have  not  invented  Georgie's  disappointment  at  not  seeing  Angus  alone.  She  dis-  liked  [REDACTED]  now,  and  so  I  supposed  he  came  to  call  by  himself,  having  no  quarrel  of  his  own;  he  was  still  close  to  the  slighted  Ward  Mackey.  My  father  and  Georgie  talked  for  a  while-she  using  people's  initials  in-  stead  of  their  names,  which  my  mother  would  not  have  done-and  they  drank  what  must  have  been  sherry,  if  I  think  of  the  shape  of  the  decanter.  Then  we  left  and  went  down  to  the  street  in  a  wood-panelled  elevator  that  had  sconce  lights,  as  in  a  room.  The  end  of  the  after-  noon  had  a  particular  shade  of  color  then,  which  is  not  tinted  by  distance  or  enhance-  ment  but  has  to  do  with  how  streets  were  lighted.  Lamps  were  still  gas,  and  their  soft  gradual  blooming  at  dusk  made  the  sky  turn  a  peacock  blue  that  slowly  deepened  to  marine,  then  indigo.  This  un-  even  light  falling  in  blurred  pools  gave  the  snow  it  touched  a  quality  of  phosphorescence,  beyond  which  were  night  shadows  in  which  no  one  lurked.  There  were  few  cars,  little  sound.  A  fresh  snow-  fall  would  lie  in  the  streets  in  a  way  that  seemed  natu-  ral.  Sidewalks  were  dangerous,  casually  sanded;  even  on  busy  streets  you  found  traces  of  the  icy  slides  children's  feet  had  made.  The  reddish  brown  of  the  stone  houses,  the  curve  and  slope  of  the  streets,  the  constantly  changing  sky  were  satisfactory  in  a  way  that  I  now  realize  must  have  been  aesthetically  comfortable.  This  " b"is  what  I  saw  when  I  read  &quot;city&quot;  in  a  book;  I  had  no  means  of  knowing  that  &quot;city&quot;  one  day  would  also  mean  drab,  filthy,  flat,  or  that  city  blocks  could  turn  into  dull  squares  without  mystery.  We  crossed  Sher-  brooke  Street,  starting  down  to  catch  our  train.  My  father  walked  ev-  erywhere  in  all  weath-  ers.  Already  mined,  colonized  by  an  enemy  prepared  to  destroy  what  it  fed  on,  fighting  it  with  every  wrong  weapon,  squandering  strength  he  should  have  been  storing,  stifling  pain  in  silence  rather  than  speaking  up  while  there  might  have  been  time,  he  gave  an  im-  pression  of  sternness  that  was  a  shield  against  suffering.  One  day  we  heard  a  mob  roaring  four  syllables  over  and  over,  and  we  turned  and  went  down  a  dif-  ferent  street.  That  sound  was  starkly  terrifying,  something  a  child  might  liken  to  the  baying  of  wolves.  &quot;What  is  it?&quot;  &quot;Howie  Morenz.&quot;  &quot;Who  is  it?  Are  they  chasing  him?&quot;  &quot;No,  they  like  him,&quot;  he  said  of  the  hockey  player  admired  to  the  point  of  dementia.  He  seemed  to  stretch,  as  if  trying  to  keep  every  bone  in  his  body  from  touching  a  nerve;  a  look  of  help-  lessness  such  as  I  had  never  seen  on  a  grown  person  gripped  his  face  and  he  said  this  strange  thing:  &quot;Crowds  eat  me.  Noise  eats  me.&quot;  The  kind  of  physical  pain  that  makes  one  seem  rat's  prey  is  summed  up  in  my  memory  of  this.  When  we  came  abreastofthe  Ritz-  Carlton  after  leaving  Georgie's  apart-  ment,  my  father  paused.  The  lights  within  at  that  time  of  day  were  golden  and  warm.  If  I  barely  knew  what  &quot;ho-  tel&quot;  meant,  never  having  stayed  in  one,  I  connected  the  lights  with  other  snowy  afternoons,  with  stupefying  adult  con-  versation  (Oh,  those  shut-in  velvet-  draped  unaired  low-voice  problems!)  compensated  for  by  creamy  bitter  hot  chocolate  poured  out  of  a  pink-and-  white  china  pot.  &quot;You  missed  your  gootay,&quot;  he  sud-  denly  remembered.  Established  by  my  grandmother,  &quot;gofiter&quot;&quot;'  was  the  family  word  for  tea.  He  often  transformed  French  words,  like  putty,  into  shapes he  could  grasp.  No,  Georgie  had  not  provided  a  goiter,  other  than  the  mint  wafers,  but  it  was  not  her  fault-I  had  not  been  announced.  Perhaps  if  I  had  not  been  so  disagreeable  with  her,  he  might  have  proposed  hot  chocolate  now,  though  I  knew  better  than  to  ask.  He  merely  pulled  my  scarf  up  over  my  nose  and  mouth,  as  if  recalling  something  UncleRaoul  had  advised.  Breathing  inside  knitted  wool  was  de-  licious-warm,  moist,  pungent  when  one  had  been  sucking  on  mint  candies,  as  now.  He  said,  &quot;You  didn't  enjoy  your  visit  much.&quot;  &quot;Not  very,&quot;  through  red  wool.  &quot;No  matter,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  needn't  see  Georgie  again  unless  you  want  to,&quot;  and  we  walked  on.  He  must  have  been  smarting,  for  he  liked  me  to  bead-  mired.  When  I  was  not  being  admired  I  was  supposed  to  keep  quiet.  &quot;You  needn't  see  Georgie  again&quot;  was  also  a  private  decision  about  himself.  He  was  barely  thirty-one  andhad  a  full  winter  to  live  after  this  one-Ilittle  more.  Why?  &quot;Because  I  say  so.&quot;  The  an-  swer  seems  to  speak  out  of  the  lights,  the  stones,  the  snow;  out  of  the  crucial  second  when  inner  and  outer  forces  join,  and  the  environment  becomes  part  of  the  enemy  too.  Ward  Mackey  used  to  mention  me  as  &quot;Angus's  precocious  pain  in  the  neck,&quot;  which  is  better  than  nothing.  Long  after  that  afternoon,  when  I  was  about  twenty,  Mackey  saidto  me,  &quot;Georgie  didn't  play  her  cards  well  where  he  was  concerned.  There  was  a  point  where  if  she  had  just  made  one  smart  move  she  could  have  had  him.  Not  for  long,  of  course,  but  none  of  us  knew  that.&quot;  What  cards,  I  wonder.  The  cards  have  another  meaning  for  me-they  mean  a  trip,  adeath,a  letter,  tomor-  row,  next  year.  I  saw  only  one  move  that  Saturday:  my  father  placed  a  card  face  up  on  the  table  and  watched  to  see  what  Georgie  made  of  it.  She  shrugged,  let  it  rest.  There  she  sits,  looking  puggy  but  capable,  Angus  wait-  ing,  the  precocious  pain  in  the  neck  turning  pages,  hoping  to  find  some-  thing  in  the  Netional  Geographic  harmful  for  children.  I  brush  in  mem-  ory  against  the  spiderweb:  what  if  she  had  picked  it  up,  remarking  in  het  smoky  voice,  &quot;Yes,  I  can  use  that&quot;?  It  was  a  low  card,  the  kind  that  only  a  born  gambler  would  risk  as  part  of  a  long-term  strategy.  She  would  neve:  have  weakened  a  hand  that  way;  she  was  not  gambling  but  building.  He  took  the  card  back  and  dropped  his  hand,  and  their  long  intermittent  game  came  to  an  end.  The  card  must  have  been  the  eight  of  clubs-&quot;a  female  child.&quot;  "