 b"WE  read  in  histories  of  literature  that  the  medieval  Germanic  poetic  line  is  made  up  of  two  half  lines.  In  the  first  part  of  this  line  two  words  alliterate-that  is  to  say,  begin  with  the  same  sound;  in  the  second  part,  one  word  alliterates  with  the  two  preceding  ones.  This  rigorous  scheme  does  not  always  correspond  to  the  facts,  however.  A  line  like  &quot;ofer  brade  brimu,  Brytene  sohtan&quot;  (&quot;over  the  broad  sea,  they  sought  the  Brit-  ons),  from  the  &quot;Ode  of  Brunan-  burh,&quot;  in  which  the  consonantal  group  br  occurs  three  times,  is  relatively  in-  frequent.  Genzmer  has  written  that  alliterative  verse  is  better  than  rhymed  verse,  be-  cause  in  the  former  each  line  is  a  unit,  but  he  seems  to  forget  that  this  does  not  permit  the  making  of  stanzas.  After  three  rhymed  lines,  When  I  consider  how  my  light  is  spent,  Ere  half  my  days,  in  this  dark  world  and  wide,  And  that  one  Talent  which  is  death  to  hide,  Lodged  with  me  useless  the  ear  expects  the  repetition  of  the  ent  rhyme;  at  the  end  of  two  alliterated  lines,  Ne  bid  him  to  hearpan  hyge,  ne  to  hringdege,  ne  to  wife  wyn,  ne  to  worulde  hyht  (His  thoughts  are  not  of  the  harp.  nor  of  receiving  rings,  nor  of  delight  in  a  woman,  nor  of  joy  in  the  world)  nobody  can  be  expected  to  recall  the  opening  alliteration.  I  have  deliberately  chosen  two  An-  glo-Saxon  lines  with  triple  alliteration;  we  have  already  seen  that,  in  general,  these  occur  infrequently.  Let  us  look,  for  example,  at  the  epic  Finnsburh  fragment,  one  of  the  oldest  examples  of  Germanic  poetry.  It  dates,  probably,  from  the  eighth  century  A.D.  or  the  end  of  the  seventh.  Of  the  forty-eight  four-stressed  lines  that  make  it  up,  only  twenty  have  the  conventional  three  alliterations;  the  rest  are  limited  to  two.  Let  us  pass  from  an  Anglo-  Saxon  to  a  German  illustration:  the  no  less  famous  &quot;Hildebrandslied,&quot;  which  dates  from  the  ninth  century,  but  whose  simplicity  and  uncouthness  be-  long  to  a  more  backward  stage  of  development.  It  is  made  up  of  sixty-  seven  lines,  only  twenty-five  of  which  contain  three  alliterative  words.  It  is  more  accurate,  then,  to  speak  of  four  stresses,  marked,  as  far  as  possible,  by  al-  literation.  It  is  interesting  to  note  that  the  vowels  alliterate  with  each  other,  though  in  most  cases  they  were  open.  This  assimilation  of  sounds  as  different  as  the  a  and  the  u  may  perhaps  be  ex-  plained  by  assuming  a  light  initial  aspi-  rate,  a  suggestion  of  the  A  sound.  The  number  of  syllables  in  each  line  was  unfixed.  Literature  begins  with  poetry,  and  poetry  with  the  epic;  it  is  as  if  before  he  spoke  man  sang.  Since  the  origin  of  literature  is  spoken,  this  order  may  well  be  attributed  to  the  mnemonic  nature  of  verse.  In  496e646961,  as  Winternitz  tells  us,  the  legal  code  was  framed  in  verse  so  that  it  might  be  committed  to  mem-  ory.  We  can  also  think  that  verse  is  a  pattern  that  has  only  to  be  repeated;  prose,  on  the  other  hand,  requires  the  continual  discovery-as  Robert  Louis  Stevenson  has  written-off  variations  at  once  pleasing  and  unexpected.  The  themes  of  the  epic  are  limited;  alliteration  forced  the  poet  to  coin  synonyms.  Like  Greek,  the  Germanic  languages  led  easily  to  the  forma-  tion  of  compound  words.  This  facility  suggested  the  sought-after  synonyms,  which,  at  first,  were  rarely  metaphors.  In  Bosworth  and  Toller's  Anglo-Saxon  dictionary,  let  us  have  a  look  at  the  fifty-one  compound  words  whose  prefix  is  Aild,  or  battle.  Only  six  are  meta-  phors:  Aildegicel  (battle-icicle),  drop  of  blood;  Aildeleoma  (light  of  battle),  sword;  Aildenedre  (battle-adder),  ar-  row;  hildescur  (battle-shower  ),  flight  of  arrows;  hildeswat  (battle-sweat),  blood;  hildewul  (battle-wolf),  war-  rior.  Kenning  (the  Norse  plural  form  is  kenningar)  is  the  name  that  the  Scan-dinavians  gave  to  these  metaphors.  In  [REDACTED],  poets  came  to  feel  that  such  figures  of  speech  were  burdensome,  and  with  time  their  use  began  to  dimin-  ish.  Ninth-century  elegies  include  only  a  few,  or  only  those  that  were  felt  as  common  synonyms,  not  as  metaphors.  For  example,  in  this  passage  from  the  &quot;Seafarer,&quot;  singed  sumeres  weard,  sorge  beoded  bittre  in  breosthord  (The  warden  of  summer  sings,  boding  bitter  sorrow  to  the  breast-  hoard)  it  is  pref  erable  to  interpret  the  l  ast  ken-  ni  ng,  breosthord,  as  a  syn  on  ym  for  heart  an  d  not  a  la  b  or  i  ou  s  circumlocu-  tion.  Breosthord  ha  d  alr  eady  bee  n  us  e  d  in  &quot;Beowulf&quot;  some  hundr  e  d  years  be-  f  ore.  Not  so  with  the  skalds,  the  Scan-  d  ina  vian  court  po  e  ts  .  T  hey  thought  that  if  the  sh  i  p  is  the  s  tallion  (or  the  stag  or  the  bison}  of  the  sea,  and  the  sea  is  the  whal  e  's  road,  why  not  ca  l  l  the  s  hi  p  the  sta  l  lio  n  of  t  he  whale's  ro  ad?  Th  i  s  method  was  dangerous  and  led  to  frigid  abe  rrat  ion  s,  li  k  e  pr  o  vider  to  swan  s  of  t  he  m  ead  of  b  attle.  Th  e  me  a  d  of  battle  i  s  blood;  the  swans  th  at  drink  it  are  rave  ns;  t  heir  provider,  the  warrior  who  s  he  d  s  it.  A  further  example:  the  d  wel/-  er  of  the  top  of  the  beast  yoke  d  t  o  the  waves.  The  be  ast  yoked  t  o  the  waves  is  a  ship;  the  top  o  f  the  s  hip  is  the  poop;  i  ts  dweller,  the  capta  in.  An  othe  r:  dis-  penser  o  f  t  he  flam  es  of  the  fal  com's  field.  The  falcon's  field  is  the  wrist  ;  the  flames  of  the  wris  t,  bracelets  o  f  shining  gold;  the  dispenser,  a  generous  kin  g.  The  early  ken  n  ings  were  equ  a  -  tions  of  two  terms  (sword-water=   " b"blood) later  on,  there  were  several  of  these  equations  in  each  word,  which  the  listener  had  to  solve  one  by  one.  Their  aim  was  technical;  the  poet,  like  Joyce  or  Pound,  wrote  for  other  poets,  not  for  immediate  emotion.  It  would  be  unfair  to  overlook  the  fact  that  the  examples  of  labored  circumlocution  given  here  were,  in  every  case,  single  striking  words  made  up  of  short  nouns.  Midgardsormr  (middle-yard's  worm)  is  less  ponderous  than  worm  (or  ser-  pent)  of  the  middle-dwelling,  which  means  the  river  that  circles  the  earth.  Let  us  now  decipher  some  lines  over-  burdened  with  kennings.  This,  from  &quot;Njal's  Saga&quot;:  The  killer  of  giants'  offspring  broke  the  strong  bison  of  the  gull's  meadow.  So  the  gods,  while  the  keeper  of  the  bell  despaired,  destroyed  the  seashore's  hawk.  The  horse  that  rides  the  reefs  found  no  help  in  the  King  of  the  Greeks.  The  killer  of  giants'  offspring  is  the  god  Thor.  The  keeper  of  the  bell  is  a  Christian  priest.  The  King  of  the  Greeks  is  Jesus,  for  the  sufficient  reason  that  King  of  the  Greeks  is  one  of  the  titles  for  the  emperor  of  Byzantium,  and  that  Jesus  is  surely  no  less.  The  bison  of  the  gull's  meadow,  the  sea-  shore's  hawk,  and  the  horse  that  rides  the  reefs  are  not  three  anomalous  beasts  but  a  single  battered  ship.  Of  these  tortuous  verbal  equations,  the  first  is  made  up  of  two  elements,  the  killer  and  the  giants'  offspring;  the  second,  of  three,  since  gull's  mead-  ow  is  a  name  for  the  sea.  These  knots  untied,  I  leave  to  the  reader  the  task  of  unravelling  the  whole  meaning.  That  solid  German  scholar,  Niedner,  acclaims  the  &quot;human-contradictory&quot;  qualities  of  these  figures,  and  goes  so  faras  to  suggest  that  they  be  enlisted  in  the  service  of  modern  poetry  &quot;in  its  concern  for  real  values.&quot;  Another  ex-  ample,  some  lines  from  Egil  Skalla-  grimsson,  who  fought  at  Brunanburh  and  celebrated  that  Saxon  victory  in  an  ode  that  contains  a  moving  elegy  to  the  memory  of  his  younger  brother,  who  fell  by  his  side  in  the  battle:  The  dyers  of  the  wolf's  fangs  squandered  the  red  swan's  meat.  The  hawk  of  the  sword's  dew  fed  on  heroes  in  the  field.  The  serpents  of  the  Vikings'  moons  fulfilled  the  will  of  the  Irons.  Lines  like  the  third  and  the  fifth  give  us,  I  believe,  a  certain  immediate  sat-  isfaction.  The  meaning  is  irrelevant,  the  suggestion  of  little  value.  They  neither  stir  the  imagination  nor  call  up  images  or  emotions;  they  are  not  points  of  departure  but  ends  in  themselves.  Their  pleasure-their  sufficient  pleas,  ure-lies  in  their  variety,  in  the  unex-  pected  linking  together  of  the  words.  This  may  have  been  felt  by  the  poets,  and  the  meaning  behind  the  text  could  have  been,  for  all  we  know,  a  mere  justification.  The  Irons  are  the  gods;  Vikings'  moon,  the  round  shield;  their  serpent,  the  spear;  the  sword's  dew, blood;  their  hawk,  the  raven;  the  red  swan,  any  bird  bathed  in  gore;  the  red  swan's  meat,  the  dead;  dyers  of  the  wolf's  fangs,  the  victors.  Upon  reflec-  tion,  we  reject  these  locutions.  The  Vikings'  moon  is  hardly  the  most  com-  pelling  metaphor  for  shield,  but  itis  an  aesthetic  fact.  To  explain  kennings,  re-  ducing  them  to  single  words,  is  to  ex-  plain  them  away.  Kennings  have  a  functional  quality.  Generally  they  definethings  by  their  use  and  tend  to  give  life  to  inanimate  objects,  freely  reversing  the  procedure  with  living  subjects.  And  so  the  sword  may  be  the  wolf  of  wounds;  the  spear,  the  corpse-dragon;  and  the  warrior,  the  swords  tree.  They  were  and  are  sufficiently  forgotten-a  fact  that  has  moved  me  to  resurrect  a  few  of  these  now  lost  verbal  flowers.  N  the  third  book  of  his  &quot;Rhetoric,&quot;  Aristotle  wrote  that  metaphor  springs  from  the  perception  of  an  af-  finity  between  dissimilar  things;  Mid-  dleton  Murry  holds  that  the  affinity  should  be  real  and  hitherto  unper-  ceived.  Perhaps  this  last  requirement  is  unnecessary.  An  epigram  from  the  &quot;Greek  Anthology&quot;  states:  I  wish  I  were  the  night  that  I  might  look  on  you  with  many  eyes.  Chesterton  de-  fines  night  as  a  monster  made  of  eyes.  Both  examples  compare  eyes  and  stars,  but  the  first  suggests  anxiety,  tender-  ness,  and  exaltation,  and  the  second,  fear.  Our  imagination  accepts  the  two.  Kennings,  on  the  other  hand,  are,  or  seem  to  be,  the  result  of  a  mental  process  that  looks  for  an  accidental  like-  ness.  They  answer  to  no  particular  feeling.  They  are  the  outcome  of  a  de-  liberate  combining  process,  not  of  a  sudden  discovery  of  hidden  affinities.  Mere  logic  may  justify  them,  not  hu-  man  sentiment.  One  more  example,  taken  from  &quot;Beowulf.&quot;  It  is  the  word  bemhus,  or  bone-house,  whose  meaning  is  the  body.  Logic  justifies  it,  since  the  human  skele-  ton  inhabits  the  body;  the  mind  rejects  it,  since  our  restless  blood  and  sensitive  flesh  are  more  alive  than  bone.  Now  and  then,  however,  poetry  comes  to  us  through  the  kenning.  So  we  read,  in  the  Saxon  riddle  of  the  nightingale,  &quot;eald  cefemscop,  eorlum  bringe  blisse  in  burhum&quot;  (&quot;old  poet  of  the  evening,  I  bring  to  men  happiness  in  their  cities&quot;)-perhaps  the  selfsame  song  that  John  Keats  heard  some  nine  hundred  years  after  in  the  garden  of  a  [REDACTED]  suburb. "