 b"DURING  my  boyhood,  from  my eighth  year  to  my  eighteenth,  my  father  lay  all  day  in  the  next  room.  His  left  hipbone  was  tu-  bercular,  his  thigh  depressed  by  a  sup-  purating  wound  like  a  bullet  wound,  and  thick  gauze  dressings  were  taped  on  it  morning  and  evening.  He  had  a  white  bed  in  a  second-story  bedroom,  not  large,  with  bay  windows  under  a  maple  tree,  and  he  could  look  out  over  a  quiet  street  toward  a  long  slanting  lawn  where  the  afternoon  sunlight  lay,  and  beyond  that  to  a  grove  ofelms.  There  were  days  when  his  fever  ran  high.  The  doctor  would  then  draw  up  to  the  curb  in  his  black  electric  run-  about-an  old  gentleman  with  gray  mustaches  who  wore  a  wing  collar  and  well-brushed  derby  and  chesterfield.  He  would  be  shown  upstairs,  where  he  would  fold  up  his  snowy  cuffs  and  wash  his  fine  liver-spotted  old  hands  three  times  before  he  proceeded  to  probe  the  wound,  without  anesthesia.  On  other  occasions,  when  the  sickroom  was  closed  and  nurses  came  and  went,  there  was  talk  of  &quot;scraping  the  bone.&quot;  One  night,  when  no  one  knew  if  my  father  would  live,  I  woke  up  and  saw  for  a  long  time  a  cigarette  glowing  and  glowing  again  in  the  darkness  where  my  aunt,  for  whom  I  had  a  passion,  was  sitting.  My  father's  suffering  was  not  so  real  to  me  as  the  death  I  under-  stood  to  be  tugging  at  him.  I  had  a  very  good,  direct  sense  of  what  it  meant  to  die;  it  meant  not  to  be  there  at  all  anymore.  My  mother  had  died  when  I  was  three,  my  younger  brother  when  I  was  seven,  and  they  had  been  re-  moved  as  by  a  razor.  Sometimes  I  lay  awake  at  night,  desolate  with  an  exact  and  intimate  foreknowledge  of  my  own  extinction.  I  was  no  more  than  eight  or  nine  when  it  had  come  home  to  me  that  the  fate  of  the  breathing  person  was  to  be  hurt  and  then  annihilated.  Pain  and  danger  I  had  met  in  the  fresh  world  long  before,  in  the  first  time  I  remember,  before  my  father  became  bedridden:  after  my  mother's  death,  when  my  grand-  mother  gave  him  and  his  two  small  boys  a  home.  I  find  that  I  am  removed  from  my  mother's  room,  there  is  a  freckled  nurse-  maid  named  [REDACTED],  and  sunny  orange  juice  is  being  squeezed  for  the  baby  in  a  kitchen  with  a  dumb-  waiter.  Then  it  is  summer  in  an-  other  place  near  a  calm  blue  lake,  where  they  make  up  a  bed  for  me  outdoors  on  a  porch  swing,  and  I  go  to  sleep  in  summer  evening  listening,  for  the  first  time  that  I  will  remem-  ber,  to  katydids  and  crickets,  the  grassy  world  in  choir.  The  house  then  changes  to  the  house  known  thereafter  as  ours.  There  is  always,  now,  the  short  front  yard  falling  away  in  a  low  ter-  race,  the  maple  tree  round  which  the  buckling  front  walk  divides,  and  the  street  down  which  will  sometimes  come,  on  his  rattling  wagon,  a  ragman  who  has  only  holes  where  a  nose  should  be.  If  we  are  playing  outside  we  run  and  hide  in  the  dusty  cellar,  and  our  hearts  beat  high  in  terror  that  the  rattling  noise  may  stop  within  our  hearing.  But  that  woeful  death's-head  is  the  only  danger  that  haunts  the  street;  all  else  is  pastoral,  accustomed.  The  reins  pass-  ing  through  a  slit  in  the  front  of  the  tall  milk  wagon  are  left  slack,  and  while  the  milkman  passes  clinking  be-  hind  the  houses  his  old  horse  moves  slowly  along  the  curb,  lipping  the  grass  and  tearing  it  with  long  yellow  teeth.  On  hot  and  breathless  evenings  the  wicker  chairs  are  set  out  on  the  lawn,  and  we  are  allowed  to  sit  up  late  as  we  drowse,  watching  the  full  moon  rise  over  a  low  cottage  and  corn  patch  to  the  southeast.  As  dusk  comes  on  the  Fourth  of  July,  Father  props  himself  on  his  crutches  in  the  street  to  pluck  out  the  colored  tissue-paper  folds  of  a  balloon,  the  last  and  most  important  of  fireworks,  A  dim  stout  figure  comes  from  across  the  street,  our  neighbor,  and  helps  hold  out  the  rustling  pleated  thing,  all  aglow  within  from  the  tiny  bonfire  lit  on  crosswires  at  its  open  base.  When  the  tissue  paper  at  last  bells  out  firmly  with  heated  air,  the  balloon  is  lifted  between  fingertips  and  let  go;  it  floats  up  swinging  above  the  treetops  to  drift  away  in  a  dark  sky  where  there  are  others,  dozens,  of  these  luminous  travellers.  A  humorous  and  tender,  lame  per-  sonage,  our  father.  He  is  a  Sunday-  afternoon  friend  who  will  take  us  to  the  park  in  Grandmother's  electric  and  make  us  acorn  pipes,  sitting  on  the  grass  with  his  worn  crutches  beside  him;  or  an  evening  friend  who  has  a  cigar  cutter  on  a  black  silk  ribbon,  and  tells  us  stories  before  bedtime-about  Bronco  Billy  and  his  horse  who  came  to  his  whistle,  or  Captain  Ferguson  the  stagecoach  driver,  his  Winchester  across  his  knees,  bringing  the  bags  of  gold  dust  safelyto  Fort  Laramie.  Those  weighty  chamois  bags!  It  amuses  my  father  to  get  Charlie  Chap-  lin  costumes  for  my  brother  and  my-  self-baggy  trousers,  tight  little  jack-  ets,  derbies,  canes,  and  even  black  mus-  taches  affixed  with  spirit  gum-and,  hanging  on  his  crutches  over  his  big  Kodak,  his  shadow  pooling  at  his  feet,  he  will  squeeze  the  rubber  bulb  with  care  to  record  this  fantasy.  He  is  atten-  tive  to  the  children's  observances  of  Easter  and  Christmas,  as  well  as  the  Fourth  of  July.  The  life  of  Santa  Claus  we  learn  from  him  in  such  elaborate  detail  that  it  will  be  years  before  the  reindeer  disappear  from  the  winter  sky.  One  Christmas  Eve  they  become  actu-  ally  visible,  jingling  down  the  street  be-  tween  the  snowdrifts  to  stop  and  toss  their  antlers  in  the  starlight  in  front  of  our  house.  Then,  sure  enough,  we  see  a  portly  figure  get  out  of  the  sleigh,  and  we  are  so  excited  we  can  no  longer  bear  to  stay  at  the  window;  there  is  a  thunderclap  of  laughter  at  the  door,  and  Santa  Claus  in  scarlet  and  white  tosses  a  great  armload  of  small  pack-  ages  and  nuts  and  oranges  into  the  room.  I  wonder  if  that  appa-  rition,  staged  with  such  profes-  sional  art,  predisposed  me  to  faith  in  the  mythical  and  magical.  But  our  father,  in  this  earliest  time,  is  sometimes  another  per-  sonage.  How  can  I  draw  this  one  withaccuracy  and  piety?  His  father,  too,  my  grandfather,  had  been  one  of  those  Irishmen  who  when  they  drink  go  blindly  un-  der  some  wave  that  has  been  mounting  inside  them,  or  as  if  behind  them,  and  are  different  men  in  the  violence  of  the  wave.  There  is,  therefore,  not  often  but  often  enough,  a  changed  and  redolentstranger  of  whom  one  has  to  be  afraid.  He  comes  out  of  mystery,  for  the  child  knows  nothing  of  his  early  crippling  in  " b"body  and  hope,  of  his  later  loss  and  blackness.  Allthe  child  knows  is  that  something  shameful  can  overcome  his  father.  I  am  sent  to  fetch  him  from  what  I  sense  to  be  degrading  com-  pany-not  very,  in  fact;  only  a  few  men  playing  poker  in  a  shabby  office  downtown,  with  whiskey  and  syphon  bottles  beside  them,  old  cronies  who  have  not  triumphed,  clubbing  together  for  small  consolations.  Or  he  does  not  come  home,  and  I  wake  in  the  bluish-gray  light  before  sunup  and  see  my  grandmother  peering  out  between  blind  and  window  frame.  There  are  three  men  loitering  and  talking  at  the  corner  of  the  driveway  under  the  street  lamp,  and  one  of  them  has  the  outline  of  my  father,  though  I  do  not  see  how  my  father  can  belong  to  this  silent  and  sinister  world  of  exhausted  night.  Then  a  whole  spring  season  is  filled  with  my  grandmother's  distress,  for  he  has  not  made  his  Easter  duty  nor  gone,  for  some  time,  to  Sunday  [REDACTED]  And  one  more  image,  to  conclude:  my  father  in  a  whiskey-fragrant  reverie  is  putting  us  to  bed  in  the  glaring  bedroom  where  the  windowpanes  are  ink-black  after  dark,  and  my  little  brother  Monty  has  misbehaved  in  some  way,  so  that  in  a  groggy  heartbroken  voice  my  father  says,  &quot;I'll  kill  him,&quot;  and  when  in  fear  I  beg  him  not  to,  he  says,  and  repeats,  &quot;For  your  sake  I  won't.&quot;  Not  until  many  years  later  could  I  get  control  of  this  nightmare  in  my  mind.  It  began  to  make  a  kind  of  sense,  insane  enough,  when  I  learned  that  my  mother  had  died  of  puerperal  fever  after  my  brother's  birth.  I  turned  away  then  from  imagining  my  father's  mis-  ery,  and  could  not  imagine  it  now  if  I  did  not  remember  the  mild,  gay  man-  later  so  distinguished  for  fortitude  and  patience-gone  crazed  and  sodden,  cut  off  from  himself.  I  remember,  too,  the  terrible  ambiguity  in  my  own  heart  on  that  occasion,  a  satisfaction,  mingled  with  my  fear,  in  the  favoritism  shown  to  me.  There  should  be  a  reticent  sur-  face  to  life,  but  I  must  allow  phantas-  mata  like  these  to  break  it  if  I  am  to  make  myself  in  any  serious  way  intel-  ligible.  No  general  view  of  things  would  ever  seem  iust  to  me  unless  it  comprehended  Heaven  and  Hell-a  range  in  experience  at  least  as  great  as  that  between  my  exaltations  as  a  child  and  my  glimpses  of  anguish  and  evil.  UR  street  was  ashort  one,  on  a  gentle  rise,  sloping  to  end  at  the  west  corner  in  an  avenue  beyond  which  were  the  level  grounds  and  elms  around  the  Edwards  place,  an  old  russet-col-ored  house  where  Lincoln  had  been  married.  East-  ward  the  street  went  down  to  cross  the  rail-  road.  On  the  other  side  of  the  tracks  there  was  another  very  old  brick  house  with  old  low  walls  where  the  mortar  was  unchinking  around  a  wild  garden-a  private  school  for  girls.  Midway  in  my  childhood  the  Edwards  place  was  torn  down  to  make  room  for  an  enor-  mous  State  building,  a  fortune  in  brickwork  and  cut  stone  and  marble  pay-  ing,  and  a  clangorous  Ford  garage  replaced  the  private  school.  But  my  small  brother  and  I  spent  the  early  years  in  an  old-  fashioned  country.  'The  foliage  of  the  tree  at  our  window,  dusky  in  sum-  mer  or  thrashing  wet  in  summer  storms,  brought  living  nature  into  the  room  on  which  we  closed  and  opened  our  eyes.  Our  white  iron  cribs  with  barred  sides  had  been  repainted  unskillfully,  so  that  drops  of  paint,  still  plastic,  could  be  fingered  on  every  bar.  Close  by  was  the  smooth  texture  of  wallpaper  tinted  with  pale  leaves  and  flowers.  Down-  stairs  the  windows  of  the  entrance  hall,  facing  south,  had  panes  of  colored  glass,  and  sumptuous  lights  of  purple  or  red  gold  would  be  found  brighten-  ing  or  fading  here  and  there  in  the  room.  Outside  there  was  the  quietude  of  the  street,  shady  or  snowy,  broken  by  wagons,  by  a  rare  automobile,  and  by  the  slow  heavy  metre  of  the  freight  trains  clanking  by  at  the  corner,  by  day  or  by  night-one  of  the  great  sounds  the  world  made.  The  world  was  not  in  fact  bounded  for  us  by  our  little  street  in  the  provin-  cial  capital  town.  My  mother's  family  lived  in  [REDACTED],  where  people  did  not  pronounce  &quot;r,&quot;  and  my  father's  pretty  sister  and  her  husband  were  in  [REDACTED]  or  New  York.  Jaeger  sweaters  and  winter  caps,  almost  too  warm  and  soft,  came  to  the  children  for  Christmas.  In  my  sixth  and  seventh  summers  we  travelled,  a  night  and  a  day  and  another  night-for  my  grandmother  saved  railroad  fare  by  choosing  incon-  venient  routes-from  the  cornland  to  the  seashore.  That  was  another  world  indeed,  as  I  knew  the  evening  I  was  first  carried,  half  asleep,  up  to  a  strange  " b"veranda  that  faced  high  dunes  and  be-  yond  them  a  low  thunderous  sound,  deepening  and  then  hushed  at  regular  intervals.  I  would  not  forget  that  sound,  nor  the  odor  of  brine  in  the  night  air  and  in  the  light  blankets  I  went  tosleep  under,.  From  our  win-  dows  we  then  grew  accustomed  on  waking  to  see  beyond  the  sand  hills  the  bulk  of  ocean,  blue  or  gray  or  flecked  with  whitecaps  or  gun-colored  under  curtains  of  fog.  Sand  and  rock,  burn-  ing  to  the  feet  or  wetted  with  foaming  water,  dune  grass  that  seemed  to  cut  and  barnacles  that  did,  profusions  of  seaweed  streaming,  crabs  in  the  shal-  lows  moving  in  aslantwise  silent  scut-  tle-these  took  the  place  of  the  hot  odorous  grape  arbors,  bitter  bark,  cool  roots  and  loam,  the  caterpillars  and  grasshoppers  and  antsof  back-yard  play  in  the  [REDACTED].  At  daybreak  we  watched  the  lobsterman  in  his  dory  making  out  to  sea  from  the  inlet,  past  the  rock  jetty  where  gulls  were  dipping  and  calling.  Sails  passed  slowly  on  the  sea's  fine  ultimate  line.  Once  a  battle-  ship  anchored  offshore  and  a  cutter  came  in  to  the  beach;  brawny  sailors  at  the  oars  backed  her  in  through  the  surf  un-  til  two  of  them,  bare-  legged,  jumped  out  in     the  water  and  carried  in  on  their  shoulders  a  petty  officer  with  a  mailbag.  It  was  1917  or  1918,  and  once  nearby  at  Newport  and  once  farther  south  at  New  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  Francis  had  his  sub-  marine,  but  for  all  our  hopes  we  never  saw  that  marvel.  The  long  coast  of  wild  dunes  curving  to  the  south,  the  ocean  ever  moving  and  aloof,  a  light  far  out,  flash-  ing  at  dusk-these  were  the  earth's  visible  frontier.  Aside  from  the  first  star,  and  the  enthralling  full  moon  of  harvest  time,  the  heavens  that  achieved  their  glory  after  dark  went  unnoticed  by  the  child.  I  think  it  was,  above  all,  the  daylong  and  nightlong  travel-  ling  train  that  made  me  know  the  world's  extent  and  mystery.  Strange:  strange-the  word  wears  out  its  meaning,  but  it  applies  to  a  great  part  of  the  real  at  all  times,  as  the  eye  of  childhood  perceives  truly.  The  heavy  blind  at  the  window  of  the  lower  berth,  gripping  its  runners  at  either  end,  would  be  pushed  up  an  inch  or  two  during  midnight  jars  and  cou-  plings,  and  there  to  be  spied  upon  would  be  empty  stations,  sidings,  streets  asleep  under  forsaken  lamps  in  the  great  night,  or  a  brakeman  going  by  with  a  tiny  flame  in  his  lantern.  Then  at  dawn  the  train  is  passing  along  a  crest  of  country  and  I  look  out  over  a  grand  hollow  in  the  world-later  hauntingly  named  for  me  the  Lehigh  Valley-where  there  are  whole  towns  far  away  and  smoky  in  the  depth.  Or  dawn  light  is  coming  over  farmlands  and  forests  where  no  human  being  can  beseen  for  mile  on  mile,  only  the  earth  and  things  of  earth  going  about  their  cool  business,  quail  rising,  streams  run-  ning,  mist  in  pools  on  the  fields.  No  thought  or  style  would  ever  ring  true  to  me  unless  I  found  within  it  some-  where  the  nerve  of  knowledge  that  I  gained  in  this  way-that  other  souls,  and  their  ways  and  habitations,  are  very  many  and  unknown,  that  the  earth's  body  is  vast  to  our  humbling,  and  multiform  in  life  indifferent  to  us.  One  went  out  of  oneself  to  know  such  things.  Of  oneself,  my  self,  how-  ever,  I  knew  and  was  accustomed  to  knowing  how  dependent  it  was-often  in  Grandmother's  or  someone's  hands  being  shirted  and  shod,  washed,  fed,  wiped,  admonished;  and  how  small-  familiar  with  sidewalks  and  floors  and  the  undersides  of  things,  getting  on  tiptoe  to  look  out  of  windows,  subject  to  bloody  abrasion  of  the  forehead  and  knees.  In  the  daydream  of  the  self  al-  ready  there  were  effortless  heroisms,  feats  of  escape  and  conquest  like  those  of  Douglas  Fairbanks,  whom  we  had  seen-our  first  movie-at  Watch  Hill.  A  long-barrelled  toy  pistol  felled  in  windrows  all  the  Redskins  or  Germans  of  the  bushes  and  the  living  air,  While  Grandmother  at  the  tiller  steered  her " b"beautiful  electric  homeward  after  calls  on  old  lady  friends,  and  while  my  brother  and  I  sat  together  under  the  little  glass  vases  and  the  black  silken  blinds  that  ran  on  cords,  we  were  our-  selves  pilots  of  that  airship  passing  over  hostile  terrains;  we  might  hold  our  breath  if  the  juice  ran  low  and  the  massive  craft  went  sluggishly  or  bucked.  Imagination  like  a  mercurial  fluid  ran  where  it  would,  as  if  to  make  up  for  the  sense,  minute  and  exquisite,  of  a  physical  reality  implacably  given,  far  beyond  the  child's  power  to  under-  stand  or  manage.  Com-  munication  with  grown-  ups  had  to  be  laconic  or  sportive,  since  no  language  existed  for  the  way  things  really  happened,  no  means  of  learning  what  was  common  in  experience  and  what  was  not.  So  the  small  creature  pushing  up  concealed  a  kind  of  mad-  ness.  The  spirit  that  shiv-  ered  alone  in  the  wide  worldfound  other  mys-  teries  in  its  own  being,  and  by  these  it  could  be  isolated  more  forlornly  still.  A  tie  of  the  flesh  had  beenbroken  early  for  this  child,  and  where  there  had  been  young  sweet-smelling  warmth  to  cradle  it  there  were  now  the  homely  nursemaids  and  the  kind  old  woman  who  fussed.  When  I  was  still  in  my  crib  I  squirmed  out  of  my  nightclothes  in  the  middle  of  summer  nights  for  the  diffuse  erotic  comfort  of  nakedness.  A  little  later  my  passion  for  the  young  and  dashing  aunt  whom  I  rarely  saw  was  certainly  erotic,  a  passion  for  her  per-  fumed  and  rustling  presence,  her  daring  cigarettes,  her  cosmetics.  I  be-  came  aware  of  seductive  display  in  the  theatre  when  we  children  were  taken  to  Saturday  matin\xc3\xa9es  of  vaudeville.  We  would  sit  in  a  box  close  to  the  rosily  lit  stage  and  watch  the  acrobats  and  jugglers  whom  we  were  meant  to  see;  but  there  were  also  comedians  in  striped  suits  whose  barking  and  leering  dia-  logue  would  make  everyone  laugh,  whereupon  they  would  sing  and  shuffle  and  twirl  their  canes  and  doff  their  gay  straw  hats.  In  some  of  this  they  were  assisted  by  light  ladies  with  eyes  like  diamonds,  and  the  quivering  beauty  of  these  actresses,  so  much  of  it  bare  and  powdered,  made  the  diaphragm  ache.  If  others  were  affected  by  the  carnal  enchantment,  it  would  not  have  oc-  curred  to  me  that  anyone  else  could  be  so  intoxicated  as  I.  At  times  my  own  thin  body  clung  to  me  like  a  sensuous  shirt  of  Nessus;  and  in  any  reckoning     with  the  flesh  or  estimate  of  its  power  I  could  not,  afterward,  disregard  the  helpless  excitement  at  such  times  of  that  small  figure,  consumed  by  mirrors,  furtive  and  flushed  and  horrified,  in  the  savagely  empty  house  in  the  warm  afternoon.  Angry  shame  came  over  me  often  as  I  found  out  my  gamut  of  weaknesses.  I  feared  the  rough  boys  I  desperately  fought.  I  feared  the  cold  sea  I  breasted.  I  feared  the  shapes  of  the  dark.  I  was  self-conscious  and  hyper-fastidious.  Once  we  had  a  maid  whose  finger-  tips  had  cracked  in  cold  weather  and  were  cov-  ered  by  a  tracery  of  black  lines;  I  could  barely  force  myself  to  eat  what  she  had  touched.  Sometimes  my  brother  and  I  would  visit  the  watchman  at  the  railroad  crossing,  a  sad  old  man  with  a  drop  at  the  tip  of  his  nose  and  a  cap  with  earflaps,  who  sat  by  an  iron  stove  in  a  little  hut  powdered  with  coal  dust.  When  a  train  was  coming  he  would  take  his  big  STOP  sign  off  the  nail  and  go  slouching  out  to  hold  it  up  in  the  middle  of  the  street.  Once  or  twice  he  offered  us  bacon  from  his  shiny  lunchbox,  and  my  brother  would  take  it  courteously  but  I  had  to  re-  fuse  in  an  agony  of  distaste  and  self-  dislike,  trying  not  to  look  at  the  old  man's  black  thumb.  I  felt  myself  cut  off  by  timidity  and  squeamishness  from  all  easy  common  life,  but  had  no  moral  advantage  to  make  up  for  it.  I  was  proud  with  no  reason  for  pride.  On  the  contrary,  I  often  lacked  the  stomach  to  stand  out  against  crowds.  One  in-  stance,  the  worst,  would  be  like  a  lump  in  my  body  for  years.  There  was  a  children's  party  in  a  big  stuccoed  ivy-  covered  house  somewhere,  at  which  a  collection  of  many  small  children  ran  wild  in  strange  passageways  and  stairs  and  bedrooms,  and  I  went  with  a  pack  who  scared  and  tortured  my  little  brother  by  locking  him  in  a  closet.  He  was  five  years  old.  When  we  got  home  he  had  a  fever,  and  a  week  or  so  later  he  died  of  influenza.  My  father  woke  me  up  in  the  middle  of  the  night  to  tell  me  this,  bending  over  sober  and  sad  in  the  dim  light  reflected  from  the  hall,  and  saying,  too,  that  what  had  hap-  pened  to  Monty  must  happen  to  us  all.  I  understood  him  well,  but  even  then  I  think  I  wondered  in  my  heart-as  I  would  later  wonder  articulately-why  I  should  go  on  living  instead  of  my  brother,  who  was  a  sturdier  child  and  a  braver  and  more  open  human  being.  A  polished  small  coffin  took  the  center  of  the  parlor,  and  there  the  small  boy  lay,  turned  to  pale  wax,  an  utter  stranger  in  his  Eton  collar.  I  do  not  remember  the  funeral  Mass  or  what  happened  at  Calvary  Cemetery.  One  day  not  long  afterward  my  father  stayed  home  with  a  boil.  Since  it  was  not  a  boil  but  the  sickness  of  the  bone  working  outward,  he  never  went  back  to  his  office,  nor  to  any  poker  game,  nor  again  to  the  church  or  cemetery-  not,  that  is,  until  ten  years  later,  stilled  and  blinded  in  his  turn,  he  went.  These  were  the  years  of  my  going  to  school  in  that  town  while  in  the  room  next  to  mine  my  father  lay,  every  evening  my  companion.  He  did  not  die  when  they  thought  he  would,  and  after  that  there  was  a  kind  of  adjustment  or  quiescence  of  illness  when  he  even  seemed  to  mend,  so  that  invalid  though  he  was  he  no  longer  had  constant  pain.  My  mother  and  my  brother  had  been  taken  from  me;  now  my  father  was  given  to  me,  and  the  gift  was  be-  yond  estimation.  He  was  freed  now  of  his  bitter  demon,  restored  to  himself  and  to  patience,  unconscious  of  his  own  courage,  utterly  without  spiritual  side.  He  had  everything  to  impart,  as  I  had  everything  to  learn,  of  the  dis-  cipline,  humility,  and  humor  proper  to  a  man. "