 b"A  man  has  been  arrested  for  stealing  a  crust  of  bread.  &quot;I  only  like  the  crust,&quot;  he  explains,  and  he  is  identified  as  the  thief  who  has  recently  terrorized  several  chophouses  by  steal-  ing  just  the  end  cut  of  roast  beef.  The  culprit,  Solomon  Entwhistle,  is  hauled  into  court,  and  a  stern  judge  sentences  him  to  from  five  to  ten  years  (which-  ever  comes  first)  at  hard  labor.  Ent-  whistle  is  locked  in  a  dungeon,  and  in  an  early  act  of  enlightened  penology  the  key  is  thrown  away.  Despondent  but  determined,  Entwhistle  begins  the  arduous  task  of  tunnelling  to  freedom.  Meticulously  digging  with  a  spoon,  he  tunnels  beneath  the  prison  walls,  then  continues,  spoonful  by  spoonful,  un-  der  Glasgow  to  [REDACTED].  He  pauses  to  emerge  at  Liverpool,  but  finds  that  he  prefers  the  tunnel.  Once  in  [REDACTED],  he  stows  away  aboard  a  freighter  bound  for  the  New  World,  where  he  dreams  of  starting  life  over,  this  time  as  a  frog.  Arriving  at  [REDACTED],  Entwhistle  meets  Margaret  Figg,  a  comely  New  England  schoolteacher  whose  specialty  is  baking  bread  and  then  placing  it  on  her  head.  Enticed,  Entwhistle  marries  her,  and  the  two  open  a  small  store,  trading  pelts  and  whale  blubber  for  scrimshaw  in  an  ever-increasing  cycle  of  meaningless  activity.  The  store  is  an  instant  success,  and  by  1850  Entwhistle  is  wealthy,  educated,  respected,  and  fighting  a  morals  charge  by  two  six-  teen-year-old  Indian  girls.  He  has  two  sons  by  Margaret  Figg-one  normal,  the  other  simpleminded,  though  itis  hard  to  tell  the  difference  unless  some-  one  hands  them  each  a  yo-yo.  His  small  trading  post  will  go  on  to  become  a  giant  modern  department  store,  and  when  he  dies  at  eighty-five,  from  a  combination  of  smallpox  and  a  toma-  hawk  in  the  skull,  he  is  happy.  (Note:  Remember  to  make  Ent-  whistle  likable.)  OCALE  and  observations,  1976:  Walking  east  on  Alton  Ave-  nue,  one  passes  the  Costello  Brothers  Warehouse,  Adelman's  Tallis  Repair  Shop,  the  Chones  Funeral  Parlor,  and  Higby's  Poolroom.  John  Higby,  the  owner,  is  a  stubby  man  with  bushy  hair  who  fell  off  a  ladder  at  the  age  of  nine  and  requires  two  days'  advance  notice  to  stop  grinning.  Turning  north,  or  &quot;uptown,&quot;  from  Higby's  (actually,  it  is  downtown,  and  the  real  uptown  is  now  located  crosstown),  one  comes  to  a  small  green  park.  Here  citizens  stroll  and  chat,  and  though  the  place  is  free  of  muggings  and  rapes,  one  is  frequent-  ly  accosted  by  panhandlers  or  men  claiming  to  know  Julius  Caesar.  Now  the  cool  autumn  breeze  (known  here  as  the  santana,  since  it  comes  every  year  at  the  same  time  and  blows  most  of  the  older  population  out  of  their  shoes)  causes  the  last  leaves  of  summer  to  fall  and  drift  into  dead  heaps.  One  is  struck  by  an  almost  existential  feeling  of  purposelessness-particularly  since  the  massage  parlors  closed.  There  is  a  definite  sense  of  metaphysical  &quot;other-  ness,&quot;  which  cannot  be  explained  ex-  cept  to  say  it's  nothing  like  what  usually  Noa  goes  on  in  [REDACTED].  The  town  in  its  way  is  a  metaphor,  but  for  what?  Not  only  is  it  a  metaphor,  it's  a  simile.  It's  &quot;where  it's  at.&quot;  It's  &quot;now.&quot;  It's  also  &quot;later.&quot;  It's  every  town  in  Ameri-  ca  and  it's  no  town,.  This  causes  great  confusion  among  the  mailmen.  And  the  big  department  store  is  Ent-  whistle's.  LaNcHE  (Base  her  on  Cousin  Tina)  :  Blanche  Mandelstam,  sweet  but  beefy,  with  nervous,  pudgy  fingers  and  thick-lensed  glasses  (&quot;I  wanted  to  be  an  Olympic  swimmer,&quot;  she  told  her  doctor,  &quot;but  I  had  some  problems  with  buoyancy&quot;),  awakens  to  her  clock  ra-  dio.  Years  ago,  Blanche  would  have  been  considered  pretty,  though  not  later  than " b"the  Pleistocene  epoch.  To  her  hus-  band,  Leon,  however,  she  is  &quot;the  most  beautiful  creature  in  the  world,  except  for  Ernest  Borgnine.&quot;  Blanche  and  Leon  met  long  ago,  at  a  high-school  dance.  (She  is  an  excellent  dancer,  although  during  the  tango  she  con-  stantly  consults  a  diagram  she  carries  of  some  feet.)  They  talked  freely  and  found  they  enjoyed  many  things  in  common.  For  example,  both  enjoyed  sleeping  on  bacon  bits  Blanche  was  impressed  with  the  way  Leon  dressed,  for  she  had  never  seen  anyone  wear  three  hats  simultaneously.  The  couple  were  married,  and  it  was  not  long  before  they  had  their  first  and  only  sexual  experience.  &quot;It  was  totally  sub-  lime,&quot;  Blanche  recalls,  &quot;although  I  do  remember  Leon  attempting  to  slash  his  wrists.&quot;  Blanche  told  her  new  husband  that  although  he  made  a  reasonable  living  as  a  human  guinea  pig,  she  wanted  to  keep  her  job  in  the  shoe  department  of  Entwhistle's.  Too  proud  to  be  sup-  ported,  Leon  reluctantly  agreed,  but  insisted  that  when  she  reached  the  age  of  ninety-five  she  must  retire.  Now  the  couple  sat  down  to  breakfast.  For  him,  it  was  juice,  toast,  and  coffee.  For  Blanche,  the  usual-a  glass  of  hot  wa-  ter,  a  chicken  wing,  sweet-and-pungent  pork,  and  cannelloni.  Then  she  left  for  Entwhistle's.  (Note:  Blanche  should  go  around  singing,  the  way  Cousin  Tina  does,  though  not  always  the  Japanese  na-  tional  anthem.)  CARMEN  (A  study  in  psychopatholo-  gy  based  on  traits  observed  in  Fred  Simdong,  his  brother  Lee,  and  their  cat  Sparky):  Carmen  Pinchuck,  squat  and  bald,  emerged  from  a  steaming  shower  and  removed  his  shower  cap.  Although  to-\ntally  without  hair,  he  detested  getting  his  scalp  wet.  &quot;Why  should  I?&quot;  he  told  friends.  &quot;Then  my  enemies  would  have  the  advantage  over  me.&quot;  Some-  one  suggested  that  this  attitude  might  be  considered  strange,  but  he  laughed,  and  then,  his  eyes  tensely  darting  around  the  rocm  to  see  if  he  was  being  watched,  he  kissed  some  throw  pillows.  Pinchuck  is  a  nervous  man  who  fishes  in  his  spare  time  but  has  not  caught  anything  since  1923.  &quot;I  guess  it's  not  in  the  cards,&quot;  he  chortles.  But  when  an  acquaintance  pointed  out  that  he  was  casting  his  line  into  a  jar  of  sweet  cream  he  grew  uneasy.  Pinchuck  has  done  many  things.  He  was  expelled  from  high  school  for  moaning  in  class,  and  has  since  worked  as  a  shepherd,  psychotherapist,  and  mime.  He  is  currently  employed  by  the  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service,  where  he  is  paid  to  teach  Spanish  to  squir-  rels.  Pinchuck  has  been  described  by  those  who  love  him  as  &quot;apunk,  a  loner,  a  psychopath,  and  apple-cheeked.&quot;  &quot;He  likes  to  sit  in  his  room  and  talk  back  to  the  radio,&quot;  one  neighbor  said.  &quot;He  can  be  very  loyal,&quot;  another  re-  marked.  &quot;Once  when  Mrs.  Monroe  " b"slipped  on  the  ice,  he  slipped  on  some  ice  out  of  sym-  pathy.&quot;  Politically,  Pinchuck  is,  by  his  own  admission,  an  independent,  and  in  the  last  Presidential  election  his  write-in  vote  was  for  Cesar  Romero.  Now,  donning  his  tweed  hackie's  cap  and  lifting  a  box  wrapped  in  brown  paper,  Pinchuck  left  his  rooming  house  for  the  street.  Then,  realizing  he  was  naked  ex-  cept  for  his  tweed  hackie's  cap,  he  returned,  dressed,  and  set  out  for  Entwhistle's.  (Note:  Remember  to  go  into  greater  detail  about  Pin-  chuck's  hostility  toward  his  cap.)  THE MEETING  (rough)  :  The  doors  to  the  de-  partment  store  opened  at  ten  sharp,  and  although  Mon-  day  was  generally  a  slow  day,  a  sale  on  radioactive  tuna  fish  quickly  jammed  the  basement.  An  air  of  immi-  nent  apocalypse  hung  over  the  shoe  department  like  a  wet  tarpaulin  as  Carmen  Pinchuck  handed  his  box  to  Blanche  Mandelstam  and  said,  &quot;I'd  like  to  return  these  loafers.  They're  too  small.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  have  a  sales  slip?&quot;  Blanche  countered,  trying  to  remain  poised,  al-  though  she  confessed  later  that  her  world  had  suddenly  begun  falling  apart.  (&quot;I  can't  deal  with  people  since  the  accident,&quot;  she  has  told  friends.  Six  months  ago,  while  playing  ten-  nis,  she  swallowed  one  of  the  balls.  Since  then  her  breathing  has  become  irregular.)  &quot;Er,  no,&quot;  Pinchuck  replied  nervous-  ly.  &quot;I  lost  it.&quot;&quot;  (The  central  problem  of  his  life  is  that  he  is  always  misplac-  ing  things.  Once  he  went  to  sleep  and  when  he  awoke  his  bed  was  missing.)  Now,  as  customers  lined  up  behind  him  impatiently,  he  broke  into  a  cold  sweat.  \xc2\xabYou'll  have  to  have  it  O.K.'d  by  the  floor  manager,&quot;  Blanche  said,  re-  ferring  Pinchuck  to  Mr.  Dubinsky,  whom  she  had  been  having  an  affair  with  since  Halloween.  (Lou  Dubin-  sky,  a  graduate  of  the  best  typing  school  in  Europe,  was  a  genius  until  alcohol  reduced  his  speed  to  one  word  per  day  and  he  was  forced  to  go  to  work  in  a  department  store.  )  &quot;Have  you  worn  them?&quot;  Blanche  continued,  fighting  back  tears.  The  no- tion  of  Pinchuck  in  his  loafers  was  un-  bearable  to  her.  &quot;My  father  used  to  wear  loafers,&quot;  she  confessed.  &quot;Both  on  the  same  foot.&quot;  Pinchuck  was  writhing  now.  &quot;No,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Er-I  mean  yes.  I  had  them  on  briefly,  but  only  while  I  took  a  bath.&quot;  &quot;Why  did  you  buy  them  if  they're  too  small?&quot;  Blanche  asked,  unaware  that  she  was  articulating  a  quintessen-  tial  human  paradox.  The  truth  was  that  Pinchuck  had  not  felt  comfortable  in  the  shoes  but  he  could  never  bring  himself  to  say  no  to  a  salesman.  &quot;I  want  to  be  liked,&quot;  he  admitted  to  Blanche.  &quot;Once  I  bought  a  live  wildebeest  because  I  couldn't  say  no.&quot;  (Note:  O.  F.  Kugel-  mass  has  written  a  brilliant  paper  about  certain  tribes  in  Borneo  that  do  not  have  a  word  for  &quot;no'&quot;  in  their  lan-  guage  and  consequently  turn  down  re-  quests  by  nodding  their  heads  and  say-  ing,  &quot;I'll  get  back  to  you.&quot;  This  cor-  roborates  his  earlier  theories  that  the  urge  to  be  liked  at  any  cost  is  not  so-  cially  adaptive  but  genetic,  much  the  same  as  the  ability  to  sit  through  op-  eretta.)  By  eleven-ten,  the  floor  manager,  Dubinsky,  had  O.K.'d  the  exchange,  and  Pinchuck  was  given  a  larger  pair     of  s  ho  e  s.  Pinchuck  confessed  later  t  hat  the  incide  n  t  ha  d  caused  him  t  o  experi-  ence  sever  e  dep  r  ession  and  wooz  iness,  which  he  a  ls  o  at  tribu  te  d  to  the  news  of  his  pa  rrot's  wedding.  Shortly  aft  er  the  Entwhistle  affair,  Carmen  Pinchuck  quit  his  job  and  be-  came  a  Chinese  waiter  at  the  Sung  Chi  ng  Ca  n  to  n  es  e  Palace.  Bl  anch  e  Ma  ndel  st  am  then  suffer  ed  a  ma  j  or  n  ervous  br  eak  do  wn  an  d  tri  ed  to  elope  wit  h  a  p  hot  ograph  of  D  izzy  Dean.  (Note:  Upon  reflection,  perhaps  i  t  w  oul  d  be  best  to  make  Dub  insky  a  h  and  puppet.)  La  t  e  in  J  anuary  ,  Ent-  whistle's  closed  its  d  oors  for  the  l  ast  ti  me,  and  Julie  Entwhistle,  the  ow  n  er  ,  took  hi  s  family,  who  m  he  lo  ved  very  dearly,  and  moved  th  e  m  into  the  Bronx  Zoo.  (This  la  s  t  sentence  should  re  m  ai  n  intact.  It  seems  very  very  g  reat  . "