 b"THE  doctors  all  agreed  that  Henia  Dvosha  suffered  from  nerves,  not  heart  disease,  but  her  mother,  Tzeitel,  the  wife  of  Selig  the  tailor,  confided  to  my  mother  that  Henia  Dvosha  was  making  herself  die  because  she  wanted  her  husband,  Issur  Godel,  to  marry  her  sister  Dunia.  When  my  mother  heard  this  strange  story  she  exclaimed,  &quot;What's  going  on  at  your  house?  Why  should  a  young  woman,  the  mother  of  two  little  chil-  dren,  want  to  die?  And  why  would  she  want  her  husband  to  marry  her  sister,  of  all  people?  One  mustn't  even  think  such  thoughts!&quot;  As  usual  when  she  became  excited,  my  mother's  blond  wig  grew  dishev-  elled  as  if  a  strong  wind  had  suddenly  blown  up.  I,  a  boy  of  eleven,  heard  what  Tzeitel  said  with  astonishment,  yet  somehow  I  felt  that  she  spoke  the  truth,  wild  as  it  sounded.  I  pretended  to  read  a  storybook  but  I  cocked  my  ears  to  listen  to  the  conversation.  Tzeitel,  a  dark,  wide  woman  in  a  wide  wig,  a  wide  dress  with  many  folds,  and  men's  shoes,  went  on,  &quot;My  dear  friend,  I'm  not  talking  just  to  hear  myself  talk.  This  is  a  kind  of  mad-  ness  with  her.  Woe  is  me,  what  I've  come  to  in  my  old  age.  I  ask  but  one  favor  of  God-that  He  take  me  before  He  takes  her.&quot;  &quot;Butwhat  sense  does  it  make?&quot;  &quot;No  sense  whatever.  She  started  talking  about  it  two  years  ago.  She  convinced  her-  self  that  her  sister  was  in  love  with  Issur  Godel,  orhe  with  her.  As  the  saying  goes-'A  delusion  is  worse  than  a  sick-  ness.&quot;  Rebbetzin,  I  have  to  tell  someone:  Sick  as  she  is,  she's  sewing  a  wedding  dress  for  Dunia.&quot;  Mother  suddenly  noticed  me  listening  and  cried,  &quot;Get  out  of  the  kitchen  and  go  in  the  other  room.  The  kitchen  is  for  women,  not  for  men!&quot;  I  started  to  go  down  to  the  courtyard,  and  as  I  was  pass-  ing  the  open  door  to  Selig  the  tailor's  shop  I  glanced  inside.  Selig  was  our  next-door  neigh-  bor  at  No.  10  Krochmalna  Street,  and  his  shop  was  in  the  same  apartment  where  he  lived  with  his  family.  Selig  sat  at  a  sewing  machine  stitching  the  lining  of  a  gaberdine.  As  wide  as  his  wife  was,  so  nar-  row  was  he.  He  had  narrow  shoulders,  a  narrow  nose,  and  a  nar-  row  gray  beard.  His  hands  were  nar-  row  too,  and  with  long  fingers.  His  glasses,  with  brass  rims  and  half  lenses,  were  pushed  up  onto  his  narrow  fore-  head.  Across  from  him,  before  another  sewing  machine,  sat  Issur  Godel,  Henia  Dvosha's  husband.  He  had  a  tiny  yel-  low  beard  ending  in  two  points.  Selig  was  a  men's  tailor.  Issur  Godel  made  clothes  for  women.  At  that  mo-  ment,  he  was  ripping  a  seam.  It  was  said  that  he  had  golden  hands,  and  that  if  he  had  his  own  shop  in  the  fancy  streets  he  would  make  a  fortune,  but  his  wife  didn't  want  to  move  out  of  her  parents'  apartment.  When  she  got  pains  in  the  chest  and  couldn't  breathe,  her  mother  was  there  to  take  care  of  her.  It  was  her  mother-and  occasion-  ally  her  sister  Dunia-who  eased  her  with  drops  of  valerian  and  rubbed  her  temples  with  vinegar  when  she  grew  faint.  Dunia  worked  in  a  dress  shop  on  Mead  Street,  wore  fashionable  clothes,  and  avoided  the  pious  girls  of  the  neighborhood.  T  zeitel  also  watched  over  Henia  Dvosha's  two  small  children-  Elkele  and  Yankele.  I  often  went  into  Selig  the  tailor's  shop.  I  liked  to  watch  the  machines  stitch,  and  I  collected  the  empty  spools  from  the  floor.  Selig  didn't  speak  like  the  people  in  [REDACTED]-he  came  from  somewhere  in  [REDACTED].  He  often  discussed  the  Pen-  tateuch  and  the  Talmud  with  me,  and  he  would  speculate  about  what  the  saints  did  in  [REDACTED]  and  how  sinners  were  roasted  in  Gehenna,  Selig  had  been  touched  by  Enlightenment  and  often  sounded  like  a  heretic.  He  would  say  to  me,  &quot;Were  your  mother  and  father  up  in  Heaven,  and  did  they  see  all  those  things  with  their  own  eyes?  Maybe  there  is  no  God?  Or,  if  there  is,  maybe  He's  a  Gentile,  not  a  Jew?&quot;  &quot;God  a  Gentile?  One  mustn't  say  such  things.&quot;  &quot;How  do  you  know  one  mustn't?  Because  it  says  so  in  the  holy  books?  People  wrote  those  books,  and  people  like  to  make  up  all  kinds  of  nonsense.&quot;  &quot;Who  created  the  world?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Who  created  God?&quot;  My  father  was  a  rabbi  and  I  knew  wouldn't  want  me  to  listen  to  such  talk.  I  would  cover  my  ears  with  my  fingers  when  Selig  began  to  blaspheme,  and  resolved  to  never  enter  his  place  again,  but  something  drew  me  to  this  room  where  one  wall  was  hung  with  gaber-  dines,  vests,  and  trousers  and  the  other  with  dresses  and  blouses.  There  was  also  a  dressmaker's  dummy  with  no  head  and  wooden  breasts  and  hips.  This  time  I  felt  a  strong  urge  to  peek  into  the   " b"alcove  where  Henia  Dvosha  lay  in  bed.  Selig  promptly  struck  up  a  conversa-  tion  with  me.  &quot;'You  don't  go  to  cheder  anymore?&quot;  &quot;I've  finished  cheder.  I'm  studying  the  Gemara  already.&quot;  &quot;All  by  yourself?  And  you  under-  stand  what  you  read?&quot;  &quot;If  I  don't,  I  look  it  up  in  Rashi's  Commentary.&quot;  &quot;And  Rashi  himself  understood?&quot;  I  laughed.  &quot;Rashi  knew  the  whole  Torah.&quot;  &quot;How  do  you  know?  Did  you  know  him  personally?&quot;  &quot;Know  him?  Rashi  lived  hundreds  of  years  ago.&quot;  &quot;So  how  can  you  know  whatwent  on  hundreds  of  years  ago?&quot;  &quot;Everyone  knows  that  Rashi  was  a  great  saint  and  a  scholar.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Who  is  this  'everybody'?  The  jan-  itor  in  the  courtyard  doesn't  know  it.&quot;  Issur  Godel  said,  &quot;Father-in-Law,  leave  him  alone.&quot;  &quot;I  asked  him  a  question  and  I  want  an  answer,&quot;  Selig  said.  Just  then  a  small  woman  round  as  a  barrel  came  into  be  fitted  for  a  dress.  Issur  Godel  took  her  into  the  alcove.  I  saw  Henia  Dvosha  sitting  up  in  bed  sewing  a  white  satin  dress  that  fell  to  the  floor  on  both  sides  of  the  bed.   Tzeitel  hadn't  lied.  This  wa  s  the  wed-  ding  dress  for  Dun  ia.  I  raced  out  of  the  shop  and  down  the  stairs.  I  had  t  o  think  the  whole  matter  out.  Why  would  Henia  Dvosha  se  w  a  dress  for  her  sister  to  wear  when  she  married  Issur  Godel  after  she,  He  nia  Dvosha,  died?  Was  this  out  of  great  love  for  her  sister  or  love  for  her  husband?  I  thought  of  the  story  of  how  Ja  cob  worked  seven  years  for  Rachel  and  how  h  er  father,  L  aban,  cheated  Jacob  by  substituting  Leah  in  the  dark.  According  to  Rashi,  Rachel  gave  Leah  sig  ns  so  that  s  he,  Leah,  wouldn't  be  shamed.  But  what  kind  of  signs  were  they?  I  wa  s  filled  with  curi-  osity  about  men  and  women  and  their  remarkable  secrets.  I  was  i  n  a  rush  to  grow  up.  I  had  begun  wat  ching  girls.  They  mo  stl  y  had  the  same  high  bosom  as  Selig's  dummy,  smaller  hands  and  feet  than  men's,  and  hair  done  up  i  n  braid  s.  Some  had  long,  narrow  necks.  I  knew  that  if  I  shou  l  d  go  home  and  ask  Mother  what  signs  girls  had  and  that  Rachel  could  have  given  to  Leah,  she  would  only  yell  at  me.  I  had  to  observe  everything  for  myself  and  keep  silent.  I  stared  at  the  passing  girls,  and  thought  I  saw  something  like  mockery  in  their  eyes.  Their  glances  seemed  to  say,  &quot;A  little  boy  and  he  wants  to  know  every-  ,.&quot;  Although  the  doctors  as-  sured  T'zeitel  that  her  daughter  would  live  a  long  time  and  prescribed  medi-  cines  for  her  nerves,  Henia  Dvosha  grew  worse  from  day  to  day.  We  could  hear  her  moans  in  our  apart,  ment.  Freitag  the  barber-  surgeon  gave  her  injections.  Dr.  Knaister  ordered  her  taken  to  the  hospital  on  Czysta  Street,  but  Henia  Dvosha  protested  that  the  sick  were  poisoned  there  and  dissected  after  they  died.  Dr.  Knaister  arranged  a  consultation  of  three-  himself  and  two  special-  ists.  Two  carriages  pulled  up  before  the  gates  of  our  building,  each  driven  by  a  coachman  in  a  top  hat  and  a  cloak  with  silver  buttons.  The  horses  had  short  manes  and  arched  necks.  While  they  waited  they  kept  start-  ing  forward  impatiently,  and  the  coachmen  had  to  yank  on  the  reins  to  make  them  stand  still.  The  consultation  last-  ed  a  long  time.  The  specialists  couldn't  agree,  and  they  bickered  in  Polish.  After  they  had  received  their  twenty-  five  rubles,  they  climbed  into  their  car-  riages  and  drove  back  to  the  rich  neigh-  borhoods  where  they  lived  and  prac-  ticed.  A  few  days  later  Selig  the  tailor  came  to  us  in  his  shirtsleeves,  a  needle  in  his  lapel  and  a  thimble  over  the  in-  dex  finger  of  his  left  hand,  and  said  to  my  father,  &quot;Rabbi,  my  daughter  wants  you  to  recite  the  confession  with  her.&quot;  My  father  gripped  his  red  beard  and  said,  &quot;What's  the  hurry?  With  the  Almighty's  help,  she'll  live  a  hun-  dred  and  twenty  years  yet.&quot;  &quot;Not  even  a  hundred  and  twenty  hours,&quot;  Selig  replied.  Mother  looked  at  Selig  with  re-  proof.  Although  he  was  a  Jew,  he  spoke  like  a  Gentile;  those  who  came  from  [REDACTED]  lacked  the  sensitivity  of  the  Polish  Jew.  She  began  to  wipe  away  her  tears.  Father  rummaged  in  his  cabinet  and  took  out  &quot;The  Ford  of  the  Jabbok,&quot;  a  book  that  dealt  with  death  and  mourning.  He  turned  the  pages  and  shook  his  head.  Then  he  got  up  and  went  with  Selig.  This  was  the  first  time  Father  had  been  to  Selig's  " b"apartment.  He  never  visited  anyone  ex-  cept  when  called  to  officiate  in  a  reli-  gious  service.  He  stayed  there  a  long  time,  and  when  he  came  back  he  said,  &quot;Oh,  what  kind  of  people  are  these?  May  the  Almighty  guard  and  protect  us!&quot;  &quot;Did  you  recite  the  confession  with  her?&quot;  Mother  asked.  \xe2\x80\x98(Yes.?\xe2\x80\x99  &quot;Did  she  say  anything?&quot;  &quot;She  asked  if  you  could  marry  right  after  shivah,  the  seven  days  of  mourning,  or  if  you  had  to  wait  until  after  sheloshim,  the  full  thirty.&quot;  Mother  made  a  face  as  if  to  spit.  &quot;She's  not  in  her  right  mind.&quot;  ((N0.7)  &quot;You'll  see,  she'll  live  years  [REDACTED];  Mother  said.  But  this  prediction  didn't  come  true.  A  few  days  later  a  lament  was  heard  in  the  corridor.  Henia  Dvosha  had  just  passed  away.  The  front  room  soon  filled  with  women.  Tzeitel  had  already  managed  to  cover  the  sewing  machines  and  drape  the  mirrorwith  a  black  cloth.  The  windows  had  been  opened,  according  to  Law.  Issur  Godel  ap-  peared  among  the  throng  of  women.  He  was  dressed  in  a  vented  gaberdine  cut  to  the  knee,  a  paper  dickey,  a  stiff  collar,  a  black  tie,  and  a  small  hat,  He  soon  was  on  his  way  to  the  community  office  to  arrange  for  the  funeral.  Then  Dunia  walked  into  the  courtyard  wear-  ing  a  straw  hat  decorated  with  flowers  and  ared  dress  and  carrying  a  bag  in  ladylikefashion.  Dunia  and  Issur  Godel  met  on  the  stairs.  For  a  moment  they  stood  there  without  speaking,  then  they  mum-  bled  something  and  part-  ed-he  going  down  and  she  up.  Dunia  wasn't  cry-  ing.  Her  face  was  pale,  and  her  eyes  expressed  something  like  rage.  URING  the  period  of  mourning,  men  came  twice  a  day  to  pray  at  Selig  the  tailor's.  Selig  and  Tzeitel  sat  on  little  benches  in  their  stocking  feet,  Selig  glanced  into  the  Book  of  Job  printed  in  Hebrew  and  Yiddish  that  he  had  borrowed  from  my  father.  His  lapel  was  torn  as  a  signof  mourning.  He  chatted  with  the  men  about  ordinary  matters.  The  cost  of  everything  was  rising.  Thread,  lisle,  and  lining  material  were  all  higher.  &quot;Do  people  work  nowa-  days?&quot;  Selig  complained.  &quot;They  play.  In  my  time  an  apprentice  came  to  work  with  the  break  of  day.  In  the  winter  you  started  working  while  it  was  still  dark.  Every  worker  had  to  furnish  a  tallow  candle  at  his  own  ex-  pense.  Today  the  machine  does  every-  thing  and  the  worker  knows  only  one  thing-a  new  raise  every  other  month.  How  can  you  have  a  world  of  such  loafers?&quot;  &quot;Everyone  runs  to  Shmul  the  carpenter  said.  &quot;In  [REDACTED]  there's  a  panic.  People  are  dying  of  hunger.&quot;  I  went  to  pray  each  day  at  Selig  the  tailor's,  but  I  never  saw  Issur  Godel  or  Dunia  there.  Was  Dunia  hiding  in  the  alcoveor  had  she  gone  to  work  in-  stead  of  observing  shivah?  As  soon  as  this  period  of  mourning  was  over,  Issur  Godel  trimmed  his  beard,  and  ex-  changed  his  traditional  cap  fora  fedora  and  the  gaberdine  for  a  short  jacket.  Dunia  informed  her  mother  that  she  wouldn't  wear  a  wig  after  she  was  married.  [REDACTED]!&quot;  THE  night  before  the  wedding,  I  awoke  just  as  the  clock  on  the  wall  struck  three.  The  window  of  our  bedroom  was  covered  with  a  blan-  ket,  but  the  moonlight  shone  in  from  each  side.  My  parents  were  speaking  softly,  and  their  voicesissued  from  one  bed.  God  in  Heaven,  my  father  was  lying  in  bed  with  my  mother!  I  held  my  breath  and  heard  Mother  say,  &quot;It's  all  their  fault.  They  carried  on  in  front  ofher.  They  kissed,  and  who  knows  what  else.  Tzeitel  told  me  this  herself.  Such  wickedness  can  cause  a  heart  to  burst.&quot;  &quot;She  should  have  got  a  divorce,&quot;  Father  said.  &quot;When  you  love,  you  can't  di-  vorce.&quot;  &quot;She  spoke  of  her  sister  with  such  devotion,&quot;  Father  said.  'There  are  those  that  kiss  the  Angel  of  Death's  sword,&quot;  Mother  replied.  I  closed  my  eyes  and  pretended  to  be  asleep.  The  wholeworld  was  ap-  parently  one  big  fraud.  If  my  father,  a  rabbi  who  preached  the  Torah  and  piety  all  day,  could  get  into  bed  with  a  female,  what  could  you  expect  from  an  Issur  Godel  or  a  Dunia?  When  I  awoke  the  next  day,  Father  was  reciting  the  morning  prayers.  For  the  thousandth  time  he  repeated  the  story  of  how  the  Almighty  had  ordered  Abraham  to  sacrifice  his  son  Isaac  on  an  altar  and  the  angel  shouted  down  from  Heaven,  &quot;Lay  not  thy  hand  upon  the  lad.&quot;  My  father  wore  a  mask-a  saint  by  day,  a  debaucher  at  night.  I  vowed  to  stop  praying  and  to  become  a  heretic.  Tzeitel  mentioned  to  my  mother  that  the  wedding  would  be  a  quiet  one.  After  all,  the  groom  was  a  widower  with  two  children,  the  family  was  in  mourning-why  make  a  fuss?  But  for  some  reason  all  the  tenants  of  the  courtyard  conspired  to  make  the  wed-  ding  noisy.  Presents  came  pouring  in  to  the  couple  from  all  over.  Someone  had  hired  a  band.  I  saw  a  barrel  of  beer  with  brass  hoops  being  carried  up  the  stairs,  and  baskets  of  wine.  Since  we  were  Selig's  next-door  neighbors,  and  my  father  would  officiate  at  the  ceremony  besides,  we  were  considered  part  of  the  family.  Mother  put  on  her  holiday  dress  and  had  her  wig  freshly  set  at  a  hairdresser's.  Tzeitel  treated  me  to  a  slice  of  honeycake  and  a  glass  of  wine.  There  was  such  a  crush  at  Selig's  apartment  that  there  was  no  room  for  the  wedding  canopy,  and  it  had  to  be  set  up  in  my  father's  study.  Dunia  wore  the  white  satin  wed-  ding  gown  her  sister  had  sewn  for  her.  The  other  brides  who  had  been  married  in  our  building  " b"smiled,  responded  to  the  wishes  of-  fered  them  in  agracious  way,  laughed  and  cried,  Dunia  barely  said  a  word  to  anyone,  and  held  her  head  high  with  worldly  arrogance.  It  was  whispered  about  that  Tzeitel  hadhad  to  plead  with  her  to  get  her  to  immerse  herself  in  the  ritual  bath.  Dunia  had  invited  her  own  guests  girls  with  low-cut  dresses  and  clean-  shaven  youths  with  thick  mops  of  hair  and  broad-brimmed  fedoras.  Instead  of  shirts  they  wore  black  blouses  bound  with  sashes.  They  smoked  cigarettes,  winked,  and  spoke  527573736961n  to  each  other.  The  people  in  our  courtyard  said  that  they  were  all  Socialists,  the  same  as  those  who  rebelled  against  the  Czar  in  1905  and  demanded  a  constitution.  Dunia  was  one  of  them.  My  mother  refused  to  taste  any-  thing  at  the  affair:  some  of  the  guests  had  brought  along  all  kinds  of  food  and  drinks,  and  one  could  no  longer  be  sure  if  everything  was  strictly  kosher.  The  musicians  played  theatre  melodies,  and  men  danced  with  women.Around  eleven  o'clock  my  eyes  closed  from  weariness  and  Mother  told  me  to  go  to  bed.  In  the  night  I  awoke  and  heard  the  stamping,  the  singing,  the  pagan  music-polkas,  mazurkas,  tunes  that  aroused  urges  in  me  that  I  felt  were  evil  even  though  I  didn't  understand  what  they  were.  Later  I  woke  again  and  heard  my  father  quoting  Ecclesiastes:  &quot;I  said  of  laughter,  It  is  mad,  and  of  mirth,  W  hat  doeth  it?&quot;  &quot;'They're  dancing  Mother  whispered.  on  graves,&quot;  OON  after  the  wedding,  scan-  dals  erupted  at  Selig's  house.  The  newlyweds  didn't  want  to  stay  in  the  alcove,  and  Issur  Godel  rented  a  ground-floor  apartment  on  Ciepla  Street.  Tzeitel  came  weeping  to  my  mother  because  her  daughter  had  trimmed  Yankele's  earlocks  and  had  removed  him  from  cheder  and  en-  rolled  him  in  a  secular  school.  Nor  did  she  maintain  a  kosher  kitchen  but  bought  meat  at  a  Gentile  butcher's.  Issur  Godel  no  longer  called  himself  Issur  Godel  but  Albert.  Elkele  and  Yankele  had  been  given  Gentile  names  too-Edka  and  Janek.  I  heard  Tzeitel  mention  the  num-  ber  of  the  house  where  the  newlyweds  were  living,  and  I  went  to  see  what  was  going  on  there.  To  the  right  of  the  gate  hung  a  sign  in  Polish:  &quot;Albert  Landau,  Women's  Tailor.&quot;  Through  the  open  window  I  could  see  Issur  Godel.  I  hardly  recognized  him.  He  had  dispensed  with  his  beard  altogether  and  now  wore  a  turned-up  mustache; he  was  bareheaded  and  looked  young  and  Christian.  While  I  was  standing  there,  the  children  came  home  from  school-Yankele  in  shorts  and  a  cap  with  an  insignia  and  with  a  knapsack  on  his  shoulders,  Elkele  in  a  short  dress  and  knee-high  socks.  I  called  to  them,  &quot;'Yan-  kele  ...  Elkele  ...&quot;  but  they  walked  past  and  didn't  even  look  at  me.  Tzeitel  came  each  day  to  cry  anew  to  my  mother:  Henia  Dvosha  had  come  to  her  in  a  dream  and  shrieked  that  she  couldn't  rest  in  her  grave.  Her  Yankele  didn't  say  Kaddish  forher,  and  she  wasn't  being  admitted  into  [REDACTED].  Tzeitel  hired  a  beadle  to  say  Kad-  dish  and  study  the  Mishnah  in  her  daughter's  memory,  but,  even  so,  Henia  Dvosha  came  to  her  mother  and  lamented  that  her  shrouds  had  fallen  off  and  she  lay  there  naked;  water  had  gath-  ered  in  hergrave;  a  wanton  female  had  been  buried  beside  her,  a  madam  of  a  brothel,  who  cavorted  with  de-  mons.  Father  called  three  men  to  amelio-  rate  the  dream,  and  they  stood  in  front  of  Tzeitel  and  intoned,  &quot;Thou  hast  seen  a  goodly  vision!  A  goodly  vision  hast  thou  seen!  Goodly  is  the  vision  thou  hast  seen!&quot;  Afterward,  Father  told  Tzeitel  that  one  dared  not  mourn  the  dead  too  long,  or  place  too  much  importance  in dreams.  As  the  Gemara  said,  justas  there  could  be  no  grain  without  straw,  there  couldn't  be  dreams  without  idle  words.  But  Tzeitel  couldnot  contain  herself.  She  ran  to  the  community  lead-  ers  and  to  the  Burial  Society  demand-  ing  that  the  body  be  exhumed  and  buried  elsewhere.  She  stopped  taking  care  of  her  house,  and  went  each  day  to  Henia  Dvosha's  grave  at  the  ceme-  tery.  Selig's  beard  grew  entirely  white,  and  his  face  developed  a  network  of  wrinkles.  His  hands  shook,  and  the  people  in  the  courtyard  complained  that  he  kept  a  gaberdine  or  a  pair  of  trousers  for  weeks,  and  when  he  finally  did  bring  them  back  they  were  either  too  short  or  too  nar-  row  or  the  material  was  ruined  from  pressing.  Knowing  that  Tzeitel  no  longer  cooked  for  her  hus-  band  and  that  he  lived  on  dry  food  only,  Mother  frequently  sent  things  over  to  him.  He  had  lost  all  his  teeth,  and  when  I  appeared  with  a  plate  of  groats,  or  some  chicken  soup  or  stuffed  noodles,  he  smiled  at  me  with  his  bare  gums  and  said,  &quot;So  you're  bringing  presents,  are  you?  What  for?  It's  not  Purim.&quot;  &quot;One  has  to  eat  the  year  round.&quot;  &quot;Why?  To  fatten  up  for  worms?&quot;  s  &quot;A  man  has  a  soul  too,&quot;  I  said.  the  " b"   &quot;The  soul  doesn't  need  potatoes.  Be-  sides,  did  you  ever  see  a  soul?  There  is  no  such  thing.  Stuff  and  nonsense.&quot;  &quot;Then  how  does  one  live?&quot;  &quot;It's  Breathing.  Electricity.&quot;  &quot;Your  wife-&quot;  Selig  interrupted  me.  &quot;She's  crazy!&quot;  One  evening  Tzeitel  confided  to  my  mother  that  Henia  Dvosha  had  taken  up  residence  in  her  left  ear.  She  sang  Sabbath  and  holiday  hymns,  recited  lamentations  for  the  Destruction  of  the  Temple,  and  even  bewailed  the  sinking  of  the  Titanic.  &quot;If  you  don't  believe  me,  Rebbetzin,  hear  for  yourself.&quot;  She  moved  her  wig  aside  and  placed  her  ear  against  Mother's.  &quot;Do  you  hear?&quot;  Tzeitel  asked.  &quot;'Yes.  No.  What's  that?&quot;  Mother  asked  in  alarm.  &quot;It's  the  third  week  already.  I  kept  quiet,  figuring  it  would  pass,  but  it  grows  worse  from  day  to  day.&quot;  I  was  so  overcome  by  fearthat  I  dashed  from  the  kitchen.  The  word  soon  spread  through  Krochmalna  Street  and  the  surrounding  streets  that  a  dybbuk  had  settled  in  Tzeitel's  ear,   and  that  it  chanted  the  Torah,  ser-  monized,  and  crowed  like  a  rooster.  Women  came  to  place  their  ears  against  'Tzeitel's  and  swore  that  they  heard  the  singing  of  Kol  Nidre.  Tzeitel  asked  my  father  to  put  his  ear  next  to  hers,  but  Father  wouldn't  consent  to  touch  a  married  woman's  flesh.  A  [REDACTED]  nerve  specialist  became  inter-  ested  in  the  case-Dr.  Flatau,  who  was  famous  not  only  in  [REDACTED]  but  in  all  Europe  and  maybe  in  [REDACTED]  too.  And  an  article  about  the  case  appeared  in  a  Yiddish  newspaper.  The  author  borrowed  its  title  from  Tolstoy's  play  &quot;The  Power  of  Darkness.&quot;  T  just  about  that  time,  we  moved  to  another  courtyard  in  Kroch-  malna  Street.  A  few  weeks  later,  in  Sa-  rajevo,  a  terrorist  assassinated  the  Aus-  trian  Archduke  Ferdinand  and  his  wife.  From  this  one  act  of  violence  came  the  war,  the  shortages  of  food,  the  ex-  odus  of  refugees  from  the  small  towns  to  [REDACTED],  and  the  reports  in  the  newspapers  of  thousands  of  casualties.  People  had  other  things  to  talk  about  than  Selig  the  tailor  and  his  family.  After  Sukkoth,  Selig  died  suddenly,  and  a  few  months  later  Tzeitel  fol-  lowed  him  to  the  grave.  One  day  that  winter,  when  the  Germans  and  527573736961ns  fought  at  the  Bzura  River,  and  the  windowpanes  in  our  house  rattled  from  the  cannon  fire  and  the  oven  stayed  unheated  because  we  could  no  longer  afford  coal,  a  for-  mer  neighbor  from  No.  10,  Esther  Malka,  paid  a  call  on  my  mother.  Issur  Godel  and  Dunia,  she  said,  were  get-  ting  a  divorce.  Mother  asked,  &quot;Why  on  earth?  They  were  supposed  to  be  in  love.&quot;  And  Esther  Malka  replied,  &quot;Reb-  betzin,  they  can't  be  together.  They  say  Henia  Dvosha  comes  each  night  and  gets  into  bed  between  them.&quot;  &quot;Jealous  even  in  the  grave?&quot;  &quot;So  it  seems.&quot;  Mother  turned  white  and  said  words  I've  never  forgotten:  &quot;The  living  die  so  that  the  dead  may  live.&quot;  "