 b"THE  boat  was  old.  The  food  was  boiled.  The  berths  were  not  sound.  The  passage  took  more  than  a  week.  The  class  in  all  cabins,  on  all  decks,  was  tourist  class.  On  the  ninth  day  out  of  New  York,  the  night  before  Cobh,  there  was,  near  the  en-  gine  room,  a  talent  show.  A  girl  from  Briarcliff  tap-danced  to  a  hymn.  Three  boys  from  Tufts  played  &quot;Aloha  Oe&quot;  with  forks  on  water  glasses  filled  to  various  heights.  A  couple,  returning  to  [REDACTED]  after  twenty  years,  sang  &quot;Du,  du  Kegst  mir  am  Herzen&quot;  seven  times.  A  clerk  from  [REDACTED]  did  imi-  tations,  turning  his  back  to  the  audi-  ence  to  compose  his  face  before  each  one.  A  Scoutmaster  from  Tenafly  rode  his  unicycle  around  the  floor,.  The  4765726d616e79n  couple's  daughter,  having  been  at  first  reluctant  to  perform,  sang  an  operatic  German  favorite,  which,  translated,  turned  out  to  be  &quot;Fritz,  Rejoice!  Fritz,  Rejoice!  Tomorrow  We  Are  Having  Celery  Salad.&quot;  And  then  an  Indian  student  from  McGill,  who  had  boarded  the  ship  at  [REDACTED],  slowly,  deliberately  wound  a  turban  around  his  head.  That  was  it.  He  did  not  win  the  prize-a  pastoral  scene  in  marzipan-but  he  gave  one  to  think  what  talent  is.  Such  an  interesting  con-ception  of  it  did  not  come  my  way  again  until,  years  later,  in  a  trench  in  the  Sinai,  an  Israeli  soldier,  born  in  Yemen,  chewed  up  and  swallowed  a  razor  blade  to  impress  Yael  Dayan.  THAT  year,  a  Fulbright  to  [REDACTED]  had  somehow  found  his  way  to  a  band  of  street  fighters  in  Budapest.  A  Fulbright  to  Florence  had  died  with  a  party  of  tourists  he  had  been  leading  through  the  desert  in  4c69627961.  The  Americans  were  not  staying  put.  Stu-  dents  on  grants  abroad  lost  permission  to  receive  their  checks  by  mail.  Show-  ing  up  to  be  paid  kept  them,  once  a  month,  at  least,  in  place.  Back  home,  a  group  of  students,  driving  a  car  across  the  country  for  its  owner,  whom  they  did  not  know  (an  agency  made  the  transaction),  sped  for  hours  through  the  desert.  It  was  nearly  sundown.  They  had  seen  no  other  cars  since  noon.  Then,  in  the  distance,  with  the  setting  red  sun  just  behind  it,  they  saw  a  car,  at  the  world's  edge,  coming  to-  ward  them.  They  laughed  and  kept  driving.  For  several  minutes,  the  two  cars  raced  in  their  lanes  toward  each  other.  Drivers  and  passengers  began  to  smile  and  wave  across  the  desert.  A  few  more  seconds,  laughing,  shout-ing,  waving.  The  two  cars  collided.  There  were  twelve  occupants  in  all,  and  none  were  dead  when  it  was  over.  A  seventeen-year-old  boy  regained  consciousness  in  the  air,  caught  and  sustained  by  telephone  wires.  He  was  too  startled  to  be  scared.  He  climbed  down  the  telephone-pole  rungs  calmly.  His  arm  was  slightly  broken.  The  oth-  ers,  only  bruised,  were  scattered  along  several  yards  of  highway.  They  picked  themselves  up  gradually,  looked  at  what  remained  of  the  two  cars,  shud-  dered,  and  sat  down  together.  HE  arthritic  Chihuahua,  with  cast,  glazed  eyes,  walked  among  the  plates  and  glasses  on  the  tablecloth.  We  were  in  a  restaurant  near  the  Banque  de  [REDACTED].  Mme.  Devereux  was  telling  her  experiences  of  the  war.  She  had  rolled  bandages.  She  had  suf-  fered  privations,  inconveniences.  She  had  endured  reports  of  the  conditions  at  the  front.  At  first,  word  of  the  ghet-  tos  in  Eastern  Europe  had  caught  her  sympathies.  But  then,  she  was  appalled.  They,  she  was  told  on  high  authority,  had  stolen  all  the  doorknobs  off  the  ghetto  doors,  and  sold  the  knobs.  They  were  such  salesmen;  she  had  been  naive.  But  when,  as  M.  Devereux  had  known  they  would,  they  turned  around  and  sold  the  bandages,  Mme.  could  roll  no  more.  She  caught  our  eyes.  &quot;NMest-  ce  pas,  mon  petit,&quot;  she  said,  stroking  a  tufted  bald  spot  behind  her  Chihuahua's  ear.  He  wheezed  and  stretched.  A  wineglass  overturned.  &quot;Is  that  not  right,  that  they  just  went  too  far?&quot;  It  was  not  one  of  us  who  overturned  the  glass.  It  was  the  dog,  We  were  trying  so  hard.  Maybe  it  was  our  French  we  were  uncertain  of.  \xe2\x80\x98N?  E  had  lined  up.  We  had  crossed  the  Atlantic  on  a  small,  old  boat  of  the  French  Line  called  the  Flandre,  which  we  called  the  Flounder-partly  -for  the  joke  but  mainly  to  avoid  in  each  other's  presence  that  attempt  to  pronounce  the  French  &quot;r,&quot;  which  seemed  of  such  importance  to  us  then.  We  had  lined  up  forthe  carte  de  s\xc3\xa9jour  and  the  identity  card,  for  " b"student  accreditation  and  for  the  cer-  tificate  of  equivalence  to  our  American  degrees.  Having  stood  in  one  line  long  enough  to  reach  the  bureaucrat  whose  job  it  was  to  issue  one  document,  we  learned  that  the  prerequisite  for  it  was  another.  At  the  end  of  the  line  for  this  other,  we  learned  from  its  bureau-  crat  that  he  could  not  issue  his  docu-  ment  without  evidence  that  we  had  already  obtained  the  first,  or  a  third,  perhaps  others  or  both.  It  was  the  fall  of  1961.  French  students-and,  for  all  we  knew,  students  of  every  other  na-  tionality-were  already  burning  Amer-  ican  flags  in  the  Sorbonne  courtyard,  on  behalf,  they  said,  of  43756261.  It  was  clear  they  hated  us.  We  stood.  We  smiled.  We  had  gone  abroad  with  the  American  smile.  We  were  very  serious.  Only  the  least  serious  of  us  roamed  the  streets  at  night,  chanting  &quot;Le  Paix  en  Alg\xc3\xa9rie&quot;with  one  student  crowd,  or  &quot;Alg\xc3\xa9rie  Frangaise&quot;  with  another,  until  the  two  groups  filled  the  boulevards,  converged,  and,  with  the  help  of  massed  policemen  swing-  ing  weighted  capes,  rioted.  On  the  same  night  the  Marquis  de  Cuevas  was  borne  by  litter  to  a  performance  of  ballet  at  the  Op\xc3\xa9ra,  where  he  was  strewn  with  rose  petals,  Bonbon  Wechsler,  of  Santa  Barbara,  who  had  already  acquired  a  small  Moroccan  boyfriend  and  was  chanting  with  him  to  improve  her  French,  lost  track  of  the  boyfriend,  and,being  carried  along  by  the  demonstration,  at  its  edge,  was  accidentally  pushed  through  the  win-  dow  of  a  bookshop  on  the  Rue  Bona-  parte,  where  she  nearly  bled  to  death  among  the  old,  incomplete  sets  of  tarot  cards.  The  complete  sets  had  been  bought  up  by  American  students  of  &quot;'The  Waste  Land&quot;  rightafter  the  war.  &quot;TAR  from  it,&quot;  the  man  who  cleans  up  this  office  after  hours  keeps  muttering  to  himself,  &quot;Far  from  it.  Far  from  it.&quot;  HE  most  important  line,  the  longest  and  the  most  embittered,  was  the  line  for  the  student  restau-  rants.  Some  people  stood  in  it  for  forty-  six  straight  hours.  The  restaurant  card  required  that  all  othercards  and  docu-  ments  be  in  order.  Quite  often,  an  American  or  other  foreign  student  would  arrive  with  his  completed  file  at  the  desk  and  be  met  with  the  stare,  the  shrug,  the  look  of  perfect  insolence  which  characterizes,  everywhere,  the  bureaucrat  who  likes  his  power  to  ob-  struct.  Many  students  wept.  Most  of  them  persisted,  with  that  flat  determi-nation  to  understand  the  country  and  the  language  which  took  them  in  so  many  different  ways.  In  no  other  lan-  guage,  for  instance-certainly  not  our  own-were  we  so  improbably  familiar  with  the  vocabulary  of  churches,  with  naves,  Flamboyant  Gothic  arches,  apses,  capitals,  transepts;  or  with  the  words  of  medieval  hymns  and  songs  of  court-  ly  love.  We  spoke  of  the  quality  of  the  blue  in  the  stained-glass  windows  of  Chartres,  which  modern  science  had  not  been  able  to  duplicate,  as  though  the  medieval  craftsman  who  had  pro-  duced  it  were  a  colleague.  He  had,  we  knew,  billed  his  diocese  for  the  pur-  chase  of  sapphires  ground  up  to  create  that  color.  Modern  science  had,  at  least,  established  that  sapphires  played  no  part  in  its  composition  at  all.  It  was  our  first,  most  scholarly  appreciation  of  the  padded  expense  account.  HE  fashion  models  walked  down  the  ramp,  surveyed  the  audience  with  utter,  unamused  contempt,  turned,  sauntered  out.  For  some  reason,  this  induced  the  lady  customers  to  buy.  Within  a  year,  convinced  of  many  European  things  and  yet  unalterably  American,  we  all  went  home.  E  are  thirty-five.  Some  ofus  are  gray,  We  all  do  situps  or  some-  thing  to  keep  fit.  I  myself  wear  bi-  focals.  Since  I  am  not  yet  used  to  wearing  specs  at  all,  I  tend  to  under-  estimate  the  distance  required,  for  in-  stance,  for  kisses  on  the  cheek.  If  the  other  person  wears  glasses,  too,  we  are  likely  to  have  a  brushing  clack  of  frames.  We  have  had  some  drunks,  an  occasional  psychotic  break,  eleven  di-  vorces,  one  autistic  child,  six  abortions,  two  unanticipated  homosexuals,  several  affairs  of  the  sort  that  are  lifelong  and  quiet  and  sad,  one  drowning,  two  cases  of  serious  illness,  one  hatred  each,  no  crimes.  No  crimes  is  no  small  thing.  We  might  have  run  over  somebody  in  high  school  and  left  the  scene.  Before  that,  we  might  have  stopped  putting  " b"pennies  on  tracks  to  be  bent  by  trains,  and  in-  stead  tried  to  lie  down  be-  tween  the  rails  while  all  the  cars  of  a  train  passed  overhead.  Every  child  heard  that  some  child  had  done  it  safely  once  some-  where.  We  were  always  daring  each  other  to  do  that.It  would  not  have  been  a  crime,  of  course.  But  it  would  have  taken  us  over  that  edge  of  irre-  versible  violence  where,  whether  in  a  pattern  of  years  or  in  the  flicker  of  an  oversight,  crime  be-  gins. EVERY  child,  natural-  ly,  who  was  not  a  sissy  swam.  In  lakes,  and  seas,  and  heavily  chlori-  nated  pools,  they  earned  their  certificates:  Beginner,  Inter-  mediate,  Advanced,  Junior  Life  Sav-  ing,  Senior  Life  Saving-all  the  New  England  summer  accreditations  of  the  healthy  child.  There  has  been,  always,  the  preoccupation  of  people  of  our  age  and  class  with  documents:  degrees,  cards,  certifications,  records,  licenses.  One  got  them  the  year  one  became  of  age  to  get  them.  Of  age.  Or  the  lapse  turned  into  long  regret,  and  then  to  fear.  The  accreditations  all  began,  though,  in  the  water:  at  five  the  dog  paddle  and  at  fifteen  the  dive  to  break  the  death  grip  of  some  giant  instructor,  in  order  to  tow  him,  by  means  of  the  chin  carry,  the  hair  carry,  the  cross-  chest  carry,  whatever  other  carry,  home.  By  now,  there  have  been  many  years  of  accepted  assurances  that  the  water's  fine-quite  warm,  actually-  once  you  get  into  it;  many  years'  in-  sane  passings  on  of  such  an  assurance.  And  here  we  all  are-all,  that  is,  ex-  cept  Barney,  whose  sailboat  overturned  two  years  ago  last  November.  It  is  probable  that  he  had  been  drinking.  When  Jim  and  I  took  him  to  dinner  the  preceding  August,  he  said  he  was  bored  with  his  job.  [REDACTED],  class.  Now,  seniors,&quot;  the  high-school  principal  said,  in-  terrupting  the  pledge.  &quot;It's  one  nation.  Under  Gawd.  Indivisible.  Some  of  you  are  saying  under  Gahd.  In  fact,  most  of  you.  What  arethe  parents  going  to  think?  What  are  your  teach-ers  going  to  think&quot;  What  are  the  visitors  from  [REDACTED]  going  to  think?  This  is  very  important.  Many  of  you  are  college  bound.  Now  say  with  me,  please.  Gawd.  Again.  Gawd.  Under  Gawd.  Indivisible.  Good.  Now  let's  resume.  Give  it  the  feeling  you're  go-  ing  to  give  it  on  graduation  day.&quot;  Her  name  was  Miss  Crosby.  Crawsby,  not  Crahsby.  We  let  it  pass.  FROM  her  earliest  childhood,  Ja-  metta  Anna  Scozzafava  had  mys-  terious  sources  of  information  about  what  holiday  it  was.  No  school  tomor-  row,  she  would  say-often  quite  late  for  a  small  child  to  be  up  on  a  cold  evening:  Scragg  Day,  or  Teachers  Records  Day,  Moss  Day,  State  Com-  memoration  Day,  or  High  School  Bus Repairs.  Mysteriously,  these  holidays  did  exist,  although  few  of  them  re-  curred  from  year  to  year.  Jametta  also  knew  holiday  nights:  Chalk  Night,  Garbage  Night,  Crab  Night-and,  I  think,  Teachers  Records  Night,  al-  though  I  am  not  sure.  Chalk  Night  and  Garbage  Night  were  clear  enough.  I  never  knew  what  were  the  right  ob-  servances  for  Crab  Night  and,  one  year,  for  Seven  Moon.  From  third  grade  on,  Jametta  spent  most  of  her  classroom  hours  either  whispering  with  Moose  Natale,  or  absent  altogether  with  the  Pass  Card.  In  her  senior  year,  however,  Jametta  sat  in  front  of  one  Albert  Benso,  in  the  first  row  of  Miss  Keane's  English  class.  We  were  doing  our  required  Shakespeare  play.  The  state  seemed  to  require  of  its  students  one  half  year  of  world  history,  Meso-  potamia  to  the  present;  one  half  year  of  American  history,  Jamestown  to  the  present;  one  solid  year  of  biology,  in  which  one  earthworm  and  one  frog  must  be  dissected;  and,  somewhere  in  four  years  of  English  classes,  a  Shake-  speare  play.  Miss  Keane's  method  of  teaching  Shakespeare  was  to  assign  parts  for  reading  by  row,  characters  in  order  of  appearance:  first  seat,  first  row,  first  part,  and  so  on  along  the  rows.  The  class  was  doing  &quot;The  Mer-  chant  of  Venice,&quot;  Miss  Keane's  favor-  ite.  Miss  Keane  had  done  her  disquisi-  tion  about  Shylock-a  villain  she  found  comparable,  and  perhaps  even  related,  to  all  the  many  traitors  in  our  own  " b"time,  our  own  country,  brainwashing  our  boys  abroad,  flashing  subliminal  messages  on  television,  stealthily  ap-  proaching,  if  they  did  not  already  have,  our  minds.  Miss  Keane  had  subsided.  The  reading  started.  Jametta  was  Portia.  It  fell  to  Albert  to  read  Lo-  renzo.  &quot;Lorenzo  Benso!&quot;  Jametta  shouted.  &quot;Lorenzo  Benso!&quot;  swept  the  classroom.  It  was  our  first  political  slogan,  and  the  witticism  of  Jametta's  academic  life.  &quot;TAR  from  it,&quot;  the  shuffling  man  is  muttering  to  himself  again.  &quot;Far  from  it.&quot;  HE  [REDACTED]  legislator  wept  as  he  cast  his  vote.  His  brother-in-law  was  up  for  a  judgeship.  He  had  no  choice.  &quot;I  will  hear  no  ill  spoken  of  Rosa  Addio,&quot;  the  assemblyman  said.  &quot;She  is  a  fine,  Christian  woman.&quot;  The  lobbyist  for  the  teachers'  union  blanched.  &quot;Ah,  jobs,  jobs  in  the  ghetto,&quot;  said  the  tenured  pedant  on  the  academic  in-  vestigating  committee  that,  yearly,  adds  to  the  coverup  of  corruption  in  our  branch  of  the  city  university,  &quot;Ghetto  jobs  is  our  b\xc3\xa9te  moire.&quot;  Then  he  giggled  and  said,  &quot;Excuse  me.&quot;  HE  clerk  of  the  morgue  of  this  paper  is  an  irascible  man.  Report-  ers  are  always  taking  his  files  away,  forgetting  to  sign  for  them,  keeping  them,  losing  them,  throwing  them  away.  Over  the  years,  it  has  made  the  clerk  ill.  I  signed  for  a  file,  took  the  folder  to  my  desk,  and  then  took  it  home.  Everybody  does  it.  It  is  against  the  rules.  After  four  days,  I  brought  the  folder  back.  The  clerk  of  the  morgue  was  incensed.  What,  he  de-  manded  to  know,  if  the  man  whose  file  it  was  had  died  in  those  four  days;  what,  in  the  absence  of  the  file,  would  the  obituary  have  been  constructed  from-had  I  considered  that  at  all?  Well,  I  said,  since  I  had  signed  for  the  file,  if  the  man  whose  file  it  was  had  died  somebody  could  have  called  me  up.  I  would  have  brought  the  folder  back.  True,  the  clerk  said,  but  there  were  questions  of  another  sort,  What  if,  in  those  four  days,  a  new  fact  about  the  man  had  come  to  light,  a  fact  that  ought  quite  surely  to  be  added  to  the  file;  what,  in  the  absence  of  the  file,  was  there  to  add  the  fact  to,  what  rubric,  category,  or  place  was  there  to  put  the  new  fact  in-had  I  con-  sidered  that  at  all,  had  I  given  it  one  moment's  thought?  I  said  I  had  not.  The  clerk,  becoming  pale  with  rage,  said  he  might  have  to  raise  the  matter  with  management.  People  seem  to  be  unhappy  in  so  many  different  ways.  I've  always  liked  the  wrathful  keepers  of  the  files.  &amp;  HAT  you  say  is  true,&quot;  the  pro-  fessor  said,  staring  through  his  study  window  at  the  sky,  &quot;but  not  so  very  interesting.&quot;  E  ran  up  the  stairs,  and  they  were  after  him.  He  fumbled  with  his  keys,  opened  the  door,  slammed  it  behind  him,  and  listened  for  their  " b"breathing  and  for  their  steps.  He  heard  their  steps  first-heavy  feet  on  the  carpeted  stairs,  'Then  he  heard  breathing.  He  looked  through  the  peep-  hole  in  his  door  and  saw,  as  usual,  nothing.  He  turned  suddenly,  caught  his  own  reflection  abruptly  in  the  mirror,  and  nearly  scared  himself  to  death.  I  HAVE  a  collect  call  for  anyone,  from  .  &quot;Yes,  operator.  That's  fine.&quot;  &quot;Miss  Ellis  in  Wash  .  .  .&quot;  &quot;That's  fine,  operator.  the  ...&quot;  .  ington,  D.C.  Will  you  accept  the  charges?&quot;  &quot;Thank  you.  Yes.&quot;  Sometimes  cooperation  impedes  the  drift.  Someone,  many  people  probably,  had  urinated  in  the  phone  booth.  That  is  common.  Many  things  serve  some-  thing  other  than  their  original,  un-  arguable  purpose.  The  left  lane,  for  example,  on  the  highway.  Some  people  use  it  because  they  prefer  it.  Some  peo-  ple  use  it  because  it  looks  like  any  other.  Some  people  use  it  for  some  oth-  I  accept  er  reason.  But  the  thing  is,  you  are  supposed  to  be  driving  faster  if  you  use  that  lane.  &quot;Hello,  Jim?&quot;  &quot;Hi&quot;  &quot;Just  a  moment,  please.  I  have  a  collect  call  for  anyone,  from  .  .&quot;  'Yes,  operator.  That's  fine.  accept  the  charges.&quot;  &quot;Hello,  Jim.  I'm  ...&quot;  &quot;Go  ahead,  please.  Your  party  is  on  the  line.&quot;  HE  slowest-talking  man  I  know  tends  to  loom  in  elevator  doors,  in  hallways,  booths,  and  other  narrow  places.  He  coughs,  nods  to  himself,  be-  gins  a  sentence,  continues  nodding  to  himself  in  all  the  pauses  along  what  he  has  to  say.  Eating  with  him  is  a  prob-  lem.  He  chews  so  thoroughly.  He  raises  his  fork,  speaks,  pauses  in  mid-  sentence,  nods,  takes  what  is  on  his  fork,  meditates,  chews.  When  he  swal-  lows,  one  thinks  he  is  about  to  say  his  sentence  to  the  end.  But  no,  he  loads  his  fork  again,  eats,  nods  in  silence,  has  a  little  sip  of  coffee  and  another  mouthful  before  going  on.  Agreement  stalls  him.  Sometimes,  when  it  has  been  clear  for  several  phrases  just  what  Mel  is  going  to  say-when  one  has  been  standing,  for  example,  in  the  rain  beside  a  taxi  one  had  hailed  at  the  very  instant  Mel  loomed-one  tries  to  com-  plete  his  sentence  for  him.  It  slows  him  down.  He  waves  his  hand,  irrita-  bly,  as  though  warding  off  a  swarm  of  gnats  before  his  face.  He  moves  his  head  like  a  pitcher  shaking  off  a  sig-  nal  that  he  does  not  like.  Then  he  starts  again,  nodding,  waving,  pausing,  finishing  his  sentence  in  his  own  good  time.  HELLO  Jim.  I  guess  they  fired  &quot;'They  have?&quot;  &quot;Yeah.&quot;  &quot;Well,  it  just  isn't  our  day,  then.  I've  just  been  chased  all  the  way  up-  stairs  from  the  hall,  by  what  looked  like  two  crazies.&quot;  You  ought  to  call  the  police.&quot;  &quot;No.  They're  gone.  I  heard  the  outside  door  shut.&quot;  \xc2\xabWell,  then.  How  are  you?&quot;  &quot;O.K.  And  you?&quot;  &quot;Fine,  I  guess.  Unemployed.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  well.  You  canalways  ..  .  &quot;The  number  you  have  dialled  is  not  in  service  at  this  time.  Please  place  your  call  again  or  dial  your  ..  .&quot;  \xc2\xa9.  ..  teach  or  something.&quot;  &quot;I  guess  so.  This  isn't  .  .  .&quot;  &quot;...  operator,  and  she  will  be  able  to  help  you.&quot;  &quot;*.  ..  much  of  a  connection.&quot;  \xe2\x80\x98tNO,,)  ''The  number  you  have  dialled  .  \xc2\xbb\xc2\xbb  &quot;Hello,  hello.  Ida.  Will  you  drop,  tP&gt;&gt;  &quot;And  my  client  feels  that  unless  there  has  been  substantial  compliance  tp  NC  ...  Rotunda.  Thank  you,  Ron.  WCBS  Newstime  is  four  .  &quot;...and  Muriel.  O  ve  rnlgh  t.  Enough  Never,  frankly,  have  I  &quot;Jim,  I  thmk  we  better  .  &quot;Is  this  [REDACTED]  225\xe2\x80\x948462?\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;No,  it  isn't.&quot;  &quot;Could  I  speak  with  Ramon?&quot;  .  but  the  highest  respect  for  him  close  quote,  paragraph.&quot;  &quot;Iss  no  here.&quot;  &quot;'Would  you  read  me  that  again,  please.  Beginning  .  ..&quot;  &quot;Allo,  allo.  Ramon?&quot;  &quot;Iss  no  here.&quot;  &quot;Jim,  I'll  try  ...  &quot;.  ..  and  costly  litigation.  Moreover,  there  is  nothing  ..  .&quot;  &quot;...on  hold  for  twenty-two  min-  utes.  I  don't  call  that  stepped  out.  I  call  that  ...&quot;  " b"&quot;...  or  anybody  else.  I  won't  drop  it.  Let  him  drop  it.  If  they  .  ..&quot;  &quot;...  freezes  over  close  quote,  para-  graph.  Do  you  getthe  .  ..&quot;  &quot;...  such  rudeness.  Well,  she  hung  up.  But  I  made  the  .  ..&quot;  &quot;.  ..  in  the  second  sentence  &quot;No,  I  don't.&quot;  &quot;Ramon?  Ramon?  Alo  .  ..&quot;  &quot;Iss  no  here.&quot;  &quot;...  simple  question.  Is  it  dead,  or  isn't  it?  I  havebeen...&quot;  &quot;Jim,  this  connection  is  really  .  ..  &quot;Mark  you,  Mr.  Ambogewe.  We  will  not  subscribe  to  any  such  .  ..&quot;  C..  awful.&quot;  &quot;Yeah.&quot;  .F\xe2\x80\x9d  33  HE  restaurant  on  Jim's  corner  has  three  pillars-one  at  the  back,  one  near  the  entrance,  one  in  the  mid-  dle  of  the  wall  behind  the  bar.  On  the  pillar  nearest  the  entrance,  there  is  a  dart  board.  You  have  to  pass  behind  that  pillar  to  enter  or  to  leave  the  res-  taurant,  to  use  the  phone,  to  hang  or  to  pick  up  your  coat.  In  front  of  the  pillar,  people  throw  their  darts.  The  pillar,  it  is  true,  is  broad.  The  dart  board  has  now  been  on  it  for  six  months.  Nobody  seems  to  mind  or  mention  it.  I  try  not  to  look  in  that  direction  when  we're  there.  The  own-  er  of  the  restaurant,  who  used  to  be  an  editor  on  night  rewrite,  is  an  extreme-  ly  literal-minded  man.  He  would  be  reluctant,  for  ex-  ample,  to  infer  from  rabbit  tracks  in  a  forest  that  not  just  four  rabbit's  feet,  con-  &gt;  nected  in  a  manner  yet  to  be  established,  but,  in  all  probability,  an  entire  living  [REDACTED]  rabbit  had  passed  by.  This  made  working  with  him,  when  he  was  still  at  the  paper,  a  little  slow.  It  also  means  that  he  will  not  move  that  dart  board  until  he  has  hard  evidence  that  is  what  he  ought  to  do.  MAIL  &amp;C  ON'T  dwell  on  it,&quot;  the  shuffling  man  is  now  saying  to  himself.  &quot;Don't  dwell  on  it.&quot;  JIM,  who  used  to  work  at  the  paper,  then  at  the  foundation,  works  forthe  candidate  just  about  full  time  now.  I  am  surprised  that  I  hate  it.  But  I  do.  For  a  time,  all  our  people  milled  about,  saying  &quot;The  system  works,  the  system  works,&quot;  the  way  both  teams  used  to  straggle  off  the  field  shouting  &quot;We  won.  We  won.  We  won&quot;  when  a  game  had  been  called  on  account  ofa  dispute,  or  rain,  or  darkness,  or  because  some  boy  had  decided  to  take  his  base-  ball  home.  I  am  sure  it  does  work,  or  I  hope  it  does,  and  I  used  to  think  it  did;  but  I  was  glad  when  we  could  all  stop  saying  that.  AM  the  Paul  Revere  of  the  morn-  ing  phone  call.  There  are  social  ladies  one  may  call  at  8:45  a.M.;  their  lines  are  busy.  Two  minutes  earlier,  one  wakes  them  up.  Most  people  at  the  paper  sleep  till  eleven  or  noon.  Jim  has  breakfast  at  six.  When  I  used  to  go  to  [REDACTED],  I  took  the  first  morning  shuttle.  In  phone  calls,  I  am  somehow  always,  always  on  the  early  side.  i  Y  daughter,  you  see,&quot;  said  the  drunk  man,  who  had  not  yet  quite  mastered  the  idiom,  &quot;is  a  Jesus  creep.&quot;  &quot;Freak,&quot;  said  the  girl  on  his  right.  &quot;I  beg  your  pardon?&quot;  &quot;Jesus  freak,&quot;  the  girl  said,  politely.  ''Yes,  that's  what  they  call  it.  So  I  said  to  my  wife,  'Saint  Pau!  was  a  Jesus  creep.  Saint  Francis  was  a  Jesus  creep.  Why,  everyone  doing  God's  work  is  a  Jesus  creep.  It's  another  way  of  saying  Christian.  That's  all  it  is.&quot;  She  said,  'Be  that  as  it  may.  I  don't  have  to  like  it.  You  see.&quot;  HERE  is  a  flower  shop  in  the  arcade  under  the  [REDACTED].  A  whole  floor  of  the  [REDACTED]  is  filled  with  stores,  clothing  and  camera  shops,  bookstores,  boutiques.  In  the  days  when  our  staff  resignations  began,  I  sent  Phil  Eisen,  our  boss,  and  his  girl  African  violets  from  that  flower  shop  after  a  dinner  at  their  house.  Since  it  would  be  awkward  to  call  and  ask,  Did  you  or  did  you  not  receive  those  [REDACTED]  African  violets,  I  guess  I'll  never  know  whether  they  received  them  or  not.  Then  Phil  resigned.  I  had  a  drink  with  him  the  night  he  left.  When  I  first  met  him  in  [REDACTED],  Phil  was  the  fattest  man  I'd  ever  seen.  That  night,  he  was  extremely  thin.  I  couldn't  think  of  anything  to  say.  Isaid,  &quot;Phil,  you've  lost  weight.&quot;  He  said  he  had  gained  ninety  pounds  in  fifty  days,  he  had  been  so  very  angry  in  his  work.  Recently,  he  had  become  angrier  still,  and  lost  a  hundred  and  twelve.  The  change  had  come  when  he  began  to  write  a  book.  Every  piece  of  news,  any  turn  of  events  at  all,  had  this  quality:  it  depressed  him  utterly.  I  asked  him  whether  his  book  was  done.  He  said  it  was.  I  asked  how  long  it  was.  &quot;Eight  hundred  and  ninety-seven  pages,&quot;  he  said.  Then  he  added,  worriedly,  &quot;You  don't  suppose  they'll  think  I  wrote  it  in  a  fit  of  pique.&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cIT\xe2\x80\x99S  not  so  bad,&quot;  the  great  professor  said.  &quot;It  only  isn't  wonderful.  And  nobody  has  an  obliga-  tion  to  be  wonderful.&quot;  Y  argument  with  the  psychiatrist  of  Jim's  younger  brother,  Simon,  was  as  follows:  whether  the  natural  gait  of  the  horse  is,  in  fact,  thegallop  or  the  trot.  I  said  it  was  the  trot.  He  said  it  was  the  gallop.  Or  the  other  way  around.  The  point  is  that  we  insist,  ed,  all  through  dinner;  we  pursued  it  fora  long,  long  time.  It  is  not  an  argument  that  ramifies  much.  Within  the  first  few  seconds,  one  has  said  about  all  there  is  to  say.  There  are  many  such  questions,  which,  once  they  are  stated,  are  completed.  Does  Macy's  tell  Gimbels,  for  example,  does  not  rami-  fy.  You  have  got  no  further  if  you  go  on  to  Does  Saks  " b"tell  Bendel,  does  Bonwit's  tell  Berg-  dorf's,  does  Chanel  tell  Givenchy,  does  Woolworth's  tell  Kresge's,  does  Penn  Station  tell  Grand  Central,  does  CBS  tell  NBC.  You  are  no  longer  expound-  ing  a  proposition.  You  are  having  a  tantrum.  Simon's  psychiatrist  and  I  pursued  our  tantrum,  in  duet,  all  eve-  ning  long.  The  horse  might  have  had  two  natural  gaits,  the  [REDACTED]  and  the  entrechat,  for  all  it  mattered.  I  meant  that  I  didn't  like  the  man  and  that  I  thought  that  within  twenty  years  his  profession  would  have  van-  ished,  leaving  no  artifacts  of  any  inter-  est  except  a  dazed  memory  of  fifty  years  of  ineffective  and  remunerative  peculation  in  the  work  of  a  single  art-  ist,  Freud.  I  also  meant  I  didn't  like  his  flowered  shirt.  He  meant,  I  think,  he  didn't  like  me,  either.  66  SARAH  now  is  twenty-one,  twenty-  one,  twenty-one,&quot;  we  used  to  sing  in  the  dining  room.  &quot;Sarah  now  is  twenty-one.  And  safe  from  King  Farouk.&quot;  On  days  when  it  was  no-  body's  birthday,  we  sang  something  that  went  &quot;My  father  killed  a  kanga-  roo.  Gave  me  the  gristly  part  to  chew.  Wasn't  that  a  terrible  thing  to  do.  He  gave  me  to  chew  the  gristly  part  of  the  kangaroo.&quot;  It  was  not  clear  why  this  particular  lament  should  be  sung  so  often  in  a  distinguished  aca-  demic  institution.  Perhaps  it  was  for  re-  lief  from  the  plainsong,  the  madrigals,  the  lovely,  authentic,  but  somehow  wildly  misplaced  old  ballads  we  were  always  singing,  in  the  cloisters,  in  the  dining  rooms,  at  the  foot  of  the  bell  tower,  wherever  some  tradition  or  other  required  that  these  songs  be  sung.  ALL  acts  are  acts  of  aggression,  we  know  that,&quot;  the  professor  said.  'The  point  is  to  give  them  other  prop-  erties.&quot;  THE  wallflower  sat  reading  in  the  [REDACTED]  restaurant.  There  used  to  be  so  many  categories  of  wallflower:  the  anxious,  smiling,  tenseones,  who  leaned  forward,  trying;  the  important,  busy,  apparently  elsewhere  preoccupied  ones,  who  were  nonetheless  wait-  ing,  waiting  in  the  carpeted  offices  of  their  inattention,  to  be  found.  There  were  wallflowers  who  clustered  noisi-  ly  together,  and  others  who  worked  a  territory,  resolute  and  alone.  And  then  there  were  wallflowers  who  had  recognized  for  years  that  the  thing  was  hopeless,  who  had  found  in  that  in-  formation  a  kind  of  calm.  They  no  longer  tried,  with  a  bright  and  desper-  ate  effort,  to  sustain  a  conversation  with  somebody's  brother,  somebody's  usher,  somebody's  roommate,  some-body's  roommate's  usher's  brother,  or,  worst  of  all,  with  that  male  wallflower  who  ought-by  God,  who  ought-to  be  an  ally,  who  could,  in  dignity  and  the  common  interest,  join  forces  to  make  it  through  an  evening,  but  who,  after  all,  had  higher  aspirations,  and  neither  the  sense  nor  the  courtesy  to  conceal  it,  who,  in  short,  always  scorned  the  dinner  partner  fate  and  the  placement  had  dealt  him,  worst  of  all.  The  category  of  wallflower  who  had  given  up  on  this  was  very  quiet,  not  indifferent,  only  quiet.  And  she  always  brought  a  book.  The  wallflower,  then,  was  reading  in  her  neighborhood  [REDACTED]  restaurant.  The  regular  customers  sat  at  their  ac-  customed  tables.  It  was  nine-thirty  on  a  busy  night.  She  had  finished  her  meal  and  ordered  coffee.  The  light  in  the  restaurant  was  pleasant.  She  read  on.  A  tall,  blond,  shaggy  man  had  been  coming  to  the  restaurant  every  eve-  ning  of  the  autumn.  He  always  sat  at  a  small  table  near  hers  and  ordered  a  single  cup  of  coffee.  He  sat,  with  that  single  cup  of  coffee,  most  nights  from  nine  until  the  restaurant  closed.  He  was  there,  as  usual,  this  evening.  Her  coffee  did  not  come.  She  read.  Her  awareness  of  the  shaggy  man  was,  as  it  was  of  the  restaurant  in  general,  pe-  ripheral.  In  addition  to  his  coffee,  he  had  ordered  brandy.  He  seemed  alto-  gether  less  poor.  Sud-  denly,  though  quietly,  he  offered  her  a  ciga-  rette.  She  looked  star-  tled.  &quot;Ga  vous  scan-  dalise?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Q  HE  feels  she  doesn't  want  to  anchor  the  hat.&quot;  &quot;I'm  not  talking  about  now.  Now  is  dif-  ferent.&quot;  &quot;Whatever  it  is  they  want  from  him  is  not  what  is  there.&quot;  HE  freshmen,  who  had  been  at  the  top  of  their  classes  through  high  school,  got  C's  on  their  first  college  midterms,  and  felt  the  world  tilt.  Within  months,  they  had  caught  on  to  seri-  ous  study,  had  learned  to  set  forth  informa-  tion,  with  that  last  orig-  inal  fillip  of  the  expert  mind.  In  default  of  the  fillip,  when  invention  " b"failed  them,  they  used  the  fail-safe  method  for  undergraduate  work  at  any  solid  institution:  take  two  utterly  unre-  lated  things  or  matters  and  show  that  they  are,  if  not  infact  identical,  actually  related  in  the  most  profound  and  subtle  sense.  Work  of  this  sort  would  dem-  onstrate  not  only  the  highest  tradition  of  the  scholar  but  also  the  signature  of  the  alert  undergraduate,  her  mark.  For  lectures,  the  arrhythmic  academic  flirtation,  the  intense  gaze  at  the  instructor,  the  averted  eyes  when  that  look  was  returned;  the  secret  smile  at  any-  thing  that  could  re-  motely  be  construed  as  felicitous  or  comic;  the  hastily  scribbled  work  in  notebooks,  not  when  points  were  obviously  being  made  in  order  or  by  number  but  at  some  highly  arbitrary  moment,  when  the  in-  structor  could  not  have  realized  that  his  lecture  had  reached  a  memorable  point.  The  crude  strate-  gies  of  the  years  preceding  college-  the  raised  hand,  the  eager  question-  were  despised,  and  rightly.  &quot;Tell  Thorne  to  shut  up,&quot;  on  a  scrap  with  a  fragment  of  a  doodle,  was  passed,  in  complete  consensus,  all  the  way  across  the  room  to  Bronx  Science  graduate  Thorne.  Having  refined  her  display  of  rapt  attention  to  changes  rung  on  silence,  Thorne  went  on  to  marry  a  tycoon  and  run  a  clinic  for  unman-  ageably  disturbed  children.  The  style  of  apparent  fascination  specific  to  the  classroom  was  of  service  to  the  students  all  their  lives,  &quot;@0,  for  these  purposes,  digitalis,  adamantine,  apple  orchard,  gonor-  rhea,  labyrinthine,  flights  of  fancy,  Halley's  Comet,  Duffy's  Tavern,  birth-  day  present,  xenophobic  are  all  syn-  onyms,&quot;  the  great  professor  said.  &quot;Syn-  onyms,  in  terms  of  metre,  that  is.&quot;  &quot;I  see.&quot;  &quot;And  words  that  rhyme,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;are  synonyms,  in  terms  of  rhyme,  with  all  the  words  they  rhyme  with.  Cat,  gnat,  flat.  Fang,  sang,  sprang,  you  see.&quot;  (\xe2\x80\x98Yes.,\xe2\x80\x99 &quot;So  that  in  the  study  of  poetics,  we  have.  Rhyme  synonyms.  And  metre  synonyms.  I  leave  aside  pure  synonyms  of  meaning.  There  are  not  really  very  many.  And  there  are  other  factors,  of  course.&quot;  &quot;Of  course.&quot;  &quot;In  tests  of  free  word  association,  we  find  that  some  people  respond  in  ways  that  reflect  what  we  might  call  the  cast  of  mind  of  synonyms.  You  might  say  trap.  They  say  snare.  You  say  dog.  They  say  cat.  More  or  less  equivalences,  don't  you  see.  &quot;Other  people  have  what  we  call  the  turn  of  mind  of  context.  You  say  trap.  They  say  door.  You  say  cat.  They  say  hairs.  Contextual  associa-  tions.  Can  you  give  me  another  rhyme  synonym  for  flat,  Miss  Miller?&quot;  &quot;Spratt.&quot;  &quot;Yes.  And  another  metre  synonym  for  apple  orchard,  Mr.  Elkin?&quot;  &quot;Vigilante.&quot;  &quot;And  a  free  word  association,  in  the  line  of  synonyms,  to  church,  Miss  Wheelock?&quot;  &quot;Temple.&quot;  &quot;And  a  context  response  to  church,  Mr.  Cook?&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cAPSE.\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;Exactly.  Fine.  You  will  see  at  once  that  every  choice  in  language  is  determined  on  every  plane-rhyme,  metre,  meaning,  other  planes-by  a  factor  of  synonymy.  And  one  of  con-  texture.  If  you  do  not  see  it,  I  refer  you  to  your  Jakobson  and  Halle.  At  first,  we  thought  the  distinction  of  no  practical  importance.  Then  we  found  that  in  cases  of  severe  speech  disorder  the  absolute  extremes  turn  out  tobe,  at  one  end,  cases  of  pure  synonymy,  the  same  word  is  repeated  endlessly.  Repe-  tition.  At  the  extreme  ofcontext,  we  have  words  rambling,  with  no  apparent  coherence.  What  we  have  come  to  call  a  word  heap.&quot;  &quot;A  word  heap.&quot;  &quot;Yes.  Now,  if  we  turn  from  poetics  to  other  fields-anthropology,  for  in-  stance-we  find  surprising  applications.  I  turn  your  attention  to  a  tribe  of  In-  dians  in  the  Northwest,  the  Haida.  The  normal  body  process  of  elimination  seemed  to  them  a  sad  thing.  When  they  encountered  droppings  or  dung  in  the  fields  or  forests,  they  said  a  little  prayer  of  commiseration  on  behalf  of  the  squirrel  or  other  animal,  which,  as  they  thought,  it  was  lost  to.  The  first  brave  of  the  tribe,  in  the  first  times,  was  courting  one  of  two  sisters.  The  other  sister  was  jealous  and  forlorn.  On  the  " b"path  to  the  sisters'  home,  this  brave  one  day  noticed  a  pile  of  excrement  that,  in  the  course  of  his  many  journeys,  had  grown  nearly  to  his  own  size.  He  asked  it,  as  it  were,  to  pull  itself  together  and  marry  the  other  sister.  It  did  so.  From  the  marriages  of  the  two  sisters,  the  tribe  descends.&quot;  &quot;Really.&quot;  &quot;Now,  what  we  have  here  might  be  considered  a  disorder  of  synonym  in  the  name  of  context.  Marriage,  usually,  is  a  matter  of  synonymy,  equation.  Hus-  band,  wife.  Boy,  girl.  But  here  we  have  a  marriage  of  a  person  with  an  object  with  which  that  person  is,  as  it  were,  only  contextually  associated.  There  are  other  considerations,  of  course.  But  wherever  we  look-poetics,  psychology,  anthropology,  linguistics-  the  ideas,  the  two  functions,  synonymy/  equivalence,  contexture/  rambling,  turn  out  to  be  among  the  basic  structures  of  the  mind.&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cI  FOUND  the  whole  work  disap-  pointing,&quot;  Nina  Valindez,  a  stu-  dent  in  one  of  my  own  courses,  here  in  the  city,  wrote,  on  the  other  hand,  in  her  paper  last  term.  &quot;It  was  more  theatrical  than  filmic.  It  did,  however,  remind  me  of  many  nineteenth-cen-  tury  novels  such  as  Vanity  Fair,  by  Thackry.  And  many  of  the  better  novels  of  Jane  Austen.&quot;  Pat  Gertz,  one  of  my  best  students,  wrote  a  paper  on  the  subject  &quot;The  Sorted  Love  Affair  in  Forties  Cinema.&quot;  The  paper  expressed  all  the  views  that  a  student  of  my  generation  might  have  held  of  which  love  affairs  were  and  which  were  not  to  be  considered  &quot;sorted.&quot;  And  yet.  And  Shelley  Muess.  Shelley  Muess,  who  had  received  a  passing  grade,  left  many  agitated  messages  last  term,  after  midnight,  on  my  answer-  ing  service.  The  last  message  said  she  would  take  our  case  to  the  Student  Faculty  Arbitration  Grievance  Coun-  cil,  and  enter  a  Denunciation/De-  merit  against  my  record  with  the  Stu-  dent  Faculty  Appraisal  Board.  I  called  Shelley,  to  ask  what  the  trouble  was.  She  said  she  had  never  received  less  than  honors  grades  before.  Since  it  had  been  a  matter  of  some  importance  to  me  that  I  not  actually  flunk  anybody  in  this  intellectual  swamp  and  rip-off,  I  mentioned  that  the  exam  had  only  re-  quired  each  student  to  list  the  films  shown  so  far  in  the  course.  Students  were  allowed  to  help  one  another  with  it,  to  take  it  home  and  turn  it  in  the  following  week.  Since  Shelley  had  missed  most  of  the  films,  and  misspelled  the  ones  she  got,  a  passing  grade  seemed  to  me  not  ungenerous.  &quot;Well,&quot; Shelley  said,  hardly  able  to  breathe  with  indignation,  &quot;I'm  not  an  English  major.&quot;  That  course  was  Media  History  II.  Other  courses  we  offer,  in  the  city's  and  the  university's  current  budgetary  crises,  are  Introduction  to  Communi-  cations  Media,  Oral  Interpretation,  Special  Forms  of  Oral  Interpretation,  Acting  for  Cinema,  Film  Theory,  Film  Criticism,  Film  Making  (Fea-  ture)  I,  II,  III,  and  Honors,  and  so  on.  The  chancellor  of  our  branch  of  the  university  once  asked  me  what  I  thought  of  our  division  head.  I  said  I  thought  he  was  a  thug.  &quot;Ah,&quot;  she  said,  with  a  chiming  laugh  and  a  lilt,  clapping  her  hands  just  once.  &quot;You  writers!  What  a  way  you  have  with  words.&quot;  For  the  most  part,  the  students  treat  me  with  grave,  gentle  concern,  as  though  I  were  something  strange-  a  giraffe,  say-among  them,  or  an  ap-  prentice  on  a  tightrope,  or  one  of  their  own  on  a  bad  trip.  THEY  were  saying  &quot;Make  peace,  not  war,&quot;  and  so,  the  Command-  erof  the  [REDACTED]  State  National  Guard  testified  in  the  course  of  the  Kent  State  trials,  he  threw  a  rock  at  them.  D  I  N  N  E  R  w  a  s  o  v  e  r  .  A  l  m  o  s  t  e  v  e  r  y  -  b  o  d  y  h  a  d  g  o  n  e  h  o  m  e  .  J  i  m  a  n  d  I  w  e  r  e  c  l  e  a  r  i  n  g  t  h  e  t  a  b  l  e  .  B  e  n  j  a  m  i  n  ,  a  t  o  u  s  l  e  d  y  o  u  n  g  j  o  u  r  n  a  l  i  s  t  w  h  o  w  a  s  c  o  v  -  e  r  i  n  g  t  h  e  n  e  g  o  t  i  a  t  i  o  n  s  a  t  C  i  t  y  H  a  l  l  ,  w  a  s  h  a  p  p  i  l  y  d  r  i  n  k  i  n  g  u  p  w  h  a  t  r  e  m  a  i  n  e  d  i  n  e  v  e  r  y  b  o  d  y  '  s  b  u  t  t  e  r  d  i  s  h  .  H  e  d  i  d  t  h  i  s  w  i  t  h  o  u  t  c  o  m  m  e  n  t  ,  a  s  t  h  o  u  g  h  i  t  w  e  r  e  t  h  e  o  r  d  i  n  a  r  y  t  h  i  n  g  t  o  d  o  a  f  t  e  r  a  d  i  n  -  n  e  r  t  h  a  t  i  n  c  l  u  d  e  d  m  e  l  t  e  d  b  u  t  t  e  r  .  W  h  e  n  h  e  h  a  d  f  i  n  i  s  h  e  d  ,  h  e  d  r  a  n  k  w  h  a  t  r  e  -  " b"mained  in  three  cups  of  coffee,  and  sat  down  on  the  sofa,  with  a  perfect  grin.  HE  girls  were  always  running  out  of  money-out  of  cash,  pre-  cisely-to  pay  taxi  drivers,  train  con-  ductors,  men  who  delivered  pizzas  after  dark.  They  borrowed  cash,  nor-  mally,  upon  arrival.  They  borrowed  passions-Wallace  Stevens,  Joseph  Conrad,  Mozart,  hiking,  the  Bible-  from  one  another,  as  girls  of  another  generation  borrowed  clothes.  At  the  great  universities  in  those  years,  every-  one  who  was  not  doing  philosophy,  in  the  mode  that  liked  to  think  of  itself  as  Ordinary  Language,  was  in  one  of  the  jargons  of  the  social  sciences,.  The  philosophers  at  the  great  universities  were,  without  exception,  failed  mathe-  e  maticians.  When  they  were  not  ex-  amining  much  of  natural,  civilized  discourse  to  conclude  that  it,  after  all,  lacked  meaning,  they  muttered  Godel,  Russell,  Hilbert,  liking  to  imply  that  they  themselves  had  chosen  philosophy  over  mathematics  to  give  themselves  a  wider,  though  related,  in-  tellectual  field.  With  an  intoxication  they  derived  otherwise  only  from  drinking  a  little  sherry  or  from  being  in  the  presence  of  somebody  English,  they  required  and  then  flunked  their  undergraduates,  year  after  year,  in  a  course  called  Symbolic  Logic,  much  as  the  social  scientists,  who  weren't  mathematicians,  either,  liked  to  flunk  their  students  in  a  course  called  Statis-  tics  101.  Many  students  had  been  frightened  by  even  the  mention  of  algebra  or  numbers  ever  sincetheir  first  struggles  with  long  division-and  ever  since  someone  first  told  them,  most  often  wrongly,  as  it  turned  out,  that  their  skills  were  verbal  skills.  The  whole  business  enabled  professors  in  all  the  departments  that  were  a  disgrace  to  the  humanities  in  those  years  to  claim  for  their  work  a  strong  mathe-  matical  base.  The  serious  colleges  for  women  were,  by  contrast,  solid.  They  taught  the  same  courses,  without  fuss  and  with  a  small  sigh,  as  they  taught  other  foolish  courses,  notably  in  edu-  cation,  at  that  time.  They  reserved  their  serious  efforts  for  the  medieval-  ists,  true  scientists,  linguists,  pre-law  and  pre-medical  students,  other  schol-  ars,  all  of  whom  went  out,  degree  in  hand,  into  the  world,  and  were  asked,  " b"like  their  predecessors,  whether  they  could  type.  \xe2\x80\x9cCAN  you  have  dinner  Thursday  night?&quot;  Simon  asked.  Jim  was  in  [REDACTED].  &quot;It  will  be  very  late.  Have  a  sandwich  or  something  before.  I'll  pick  you  up  at  seven.  Don't  ask  where  we're  going.  It  will  bea  surprise.&quot;  The  surprise  was  a  five-hour  perform-  ance  of  &quot;Parsifal.&quot;  This  implied  a  mis-  understanding  so  profound  that  I  kept  looking  at  Simon  from  time  to  time  to  see  whether  he  meant  it  as  a  shaggy-  dog  sort  of  joke.  Mostly,  he  was  asleep.  Whenever  he  woke  up,  he  was  so  evi-  dently  happy  to  be  there,at  that  in-  terminable  spectacle  in  thatvast  audi-  torium  with  too  few  aisles.  He  would  grin.  I  would  grin.  He  would  go  back  t  C  &quot;  ,  &gt;  to  sleep.  The  worst  part,  I  think,  comes  near  the  end,  when  the  hermit  sings  to  Parsifal  about  how  wonderful  it  is  that  Parsifal  has  brought  the  Spear,  which  will,  after  so  many  years,  relieve  the  suffering  of  Amfortas,  the  Fisher  King.  The  aria  itself  lasts  many  years.  One  is  aware  of  Amfortas,  waiting  in  pain,  while  this  long-winded  hermit  and  Parsifal  exchange  congratulations  and  amenities.  Narrative  conventions  do  make  it  quite  impossible  for  them  to  bring  the  king  the  Spear,  and  then,  when  he  is  no  longer  in  pain,  sing  about  their  sympathy  for  him,  in  all  those  years,  and  their  great  gladness  that  a  remedy  is  at  hand.  The  whole  magic  of  a  plot  requires  that  somebody  be  impeded  from  getting  something  over  with.  Yet  there  one  is,  with  an  emo-tional  body  English  almost,  wishing  that  pole-vaulter  over  his  bar,  wanting  something  to  happen  or  not  to  happen,  wishing  somebody  well.  Amfortas  was  not  even  on  stage.  In  fact,  there  was  no  Amfortas.  Yet,  more  than  I  wished  that  I  were  elsewhere,  more  than  I  wished  that  the  opera  were  over,  I  did  wish  that  they  would  bring  that  king  his  Spear.  When  it  was  over,  Simon,  who  is  really  a  musician,  woke  up,  cheered,  applauded.  He  is  a  chief  resi-  dent  in  surgery  at  a  city  hospital.  When  he  isn't  on  call,  he  studies  voice.  &quot;Wasn't  it  wonderful?&quot;  he  said.  THE  athletes  among  us  were  ex-  tremely  delicate,  subject  to  in-  juries  and  colds.  Avalanches  fell  on  them.  Their  stomachs  were  easily  up-  set.  When  Ralph's  girl  left  him  for  a  year  in  [REDACTED],  he,  after  two  beers,  leaped  over  a  cliff  and  missed  what-  ever  he  muzzily  thought  of  as  his  des-  tination,  and  hit  a  tree,  and  broke  his  jaw  in  seven  places.  His  girl  returned  to  him.  His  jaw  was  wired.  She  got  the  flu.  We  all  used  to  think  we  loved  to  swim  when  we  were  younger.  Tired,  shivering,  we  pleaded  to  stay  in.  Now,  at  the  fifth  stroke  of  what  begins  as  a  brazen  crawl,  my  feet  sink.  I  have  to  swim  some  other  stroke.  Once,  Alice,  a  true  and  natural  athlete,  jumped  into  the  pool  of  a  hotel  in  Palermo  and  swam  her  crawl.  She  had  already  played  an  hour  of  tennis,  and  ridden  one  of  the  furry  island  horses.  She  felt  that  her  exercise  for  the  day  was  not  complete.  So  she  swam.  At  her  third  lap  of  the  long  pool,  an  Italian,  who  had  been  lying  in  the  sun,  simply  could  no  longer  stand  it.  He  dived  in,  began  the  crawl.  They  did  two  laps,  Alice  in  the  lead.  At  her  fifth  lap,  he  was  already  half  a  pool  beKiind  her.  He  speeded  up.  His  feet  were  lagging.  At  her  nineteenth  lap,  he  gave  it  up.  He  was  enraged.  HE  child  of  nature,  with  a  sun-  burned  stomach  and  dirt  on  its  wrists,  had  followed  the  wrong  fur  sleeve  at  the  supermarket.  He  was  now  quite  lost.  He  began  to  sob,  wetly,  hys-  terically-not  like  a  scared,  lost  child  but  in  the  manner  of  a  tyrannical,  mean,  accusatory  brat.  &quot;You're  not  my  mother,&quot;  he  began  to  shout,  a  natural  informer,  at  the  pale,  wrong  lady  in  the  near  fur  coat,  and  then,  &quot;She's  not  my  mother,&quot;  when  he  had  gathered  a  sympathetic  little  crowd.  &quot;Lady,  are  you  this  kid's  mother?&quot;  the  supermar-  ket  manager  asked  the  lady.  She  said  she  wasn't.  He  said,  &quot;Well,  then  why  don't  you  leave  him  alone?&quot;  When  Sally,  one  of  our  legal  re-  " b"porters,  went  to  the  hospital,  we  thought  she  might  have  to  have  a  hys-  terectomy,  and  she  did.  We  visited  her  by  turns.  Carl  was  there  on  the  second  afternoon.  When  the  nurse  asked  him  to  leave  the  room  for  a  moment,  he  naturally  left.  &quot;Now,  Mother,  here  we  are,&quot;  the  nurse  said.  She  brought  some-  body's  baby  in.  Sally,  who  does  have  two  children,  was  confused.  She  said,  &quot;Wait,  just  a  minute.&quot;  The  nurse  cooed.  Sally  pointed  out  that  the  baby  wasn't  hers.  &quot;Now,  Mother,&quot;  the  nurse  said,  &quot;in  large  hospitals  we  often  think  that.  But  Baby  knows.  Baby  has  a  wristlet.&quot;  Then  she  looked  at  the  wristlet.  She  said  &quot;Oh,  now,&quot;  one  last  time,  and,  holding  the  baby,  walked  out.  \xe2\x80\x9cHARRY,\xe2\x80\x9d  the  blonde  said,  waving  her  drink  and  putting  out  her  cigarette,  &quot;do  you  realize  you  have  made  yourself  into  a  person  that  one  has  to  lie  to?&quot;  &quot;Janine,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;you  know  I'm  very  tired  of  your  apergus?&quot;  HAT  was  mortifying  was  the  limbo  dancing.  What  was  mor-  tifying  was  the  fat,  hot,  drunk,  sun-  burned,  and  flattered  man  at  whom  the  calypso  lyrics  were  directed.  What  was  mortifying  was  the  way  his  wife  danced  with  the  famous,  tense,  witless  insult  comedian.  What  was  mortifying  was  the  insinuating  child  who  recited  &quot;Horatius  at  the  Bridge&quot;  in  its  en-  tirety.  &quot;Sweetie,&quot;  the  blonde  screamed  from  the  dance  floor  to  her  adolescent  grandson,  &quot;isn't  this  fun?&quot;  NEVER  liked  him,  and  now  he  is  dead.  Perhaps  I  should  wish  that  I  had  liked  him  better.  But  I  do  not  wish  it.  And  I  did  not  like  him.  I  was  not  asked,  which  is  justas  well.  What  he  was  was  asleep.  So  they  should  not  have  buried  him,.  Hindsight  is  easy.  Mistakes  will  happen.  It  was  one  of  a  series  of  errorsthat  marked  his  whole  life.  Not  the  last  error,  it  now  seems.  His  will  is  under  litigation.  The  penul-  timate  error  perhaps.  It  was  his  misfortune  to  die  during  the  strike  of  the  Cemetery  Workers  &amp;  Greens  Attendants  Union-oddly  enough,  in  this  city,  Local  365.  At  Calvary,  Cypress  Hills,  Mount  Carmel,  the  unburied  coolly  bided  their  time.  The  trouble  is,  he  was  our  candidate,  Jim's  candidate,  really.  It  can't  be  helped.  That  is  all.  UR  anachronism.  The  young  up-  town  doctor  found  his  standard  of  living  drastically  threatened  by  the  change  in  the  law.  He  had  worked  hard  through  his  schooling,  interneship,  and  residency.  He  had  married  a  girl  he  had  met  at  a  mixer,  at  Goucher.  They  had  settled  in  Rye.  Every  Thurs-  day  night,  beginning  at  midnight  and  ending  at  eight  in  the  morning,  he  had  been  performing  abortions,  for  years.  The  rates  he  had  charged  had  not  been  steep,  when  compared  with  the  cost  of  a  trip  to  some  other  country.  Occa-  sionally,  for  a  young  actress  out  of  work  or  some  other  demonstrably  poor  patient,  he  had  done  the  operation  for  free.  On  some  Thursday  nights,  there  were  only  two  patients.  Some-  times,  in  the  fall,  there  were  seven.  His  preferred  number  for  any  Thursday  night  was  four.  He  called  all  his  pa-  tients-the  'Thursday-night  ones  and  those  in  his  regular  practice-by  their  first  names.  He  insisted  that  they  call  him  Ned.  When  abortion  in  New  York  became  legal,  Ned,  never  having  thought  of  the  problem  in  these  terms,  faced  the  prospect  of  having  his  annual  income  reduced  by  two  thousand  dol-  lars  a  week,  cash.  He  had  never  been  a  man  without  scruples,  The  legal  risk  he  had  taken,  through  the  years,  for  his  patients;  a  sense  that  sane,  prosperous  men  did  not pay  taxes  on  cash  income;  and  a  vague,  liberal  perception  that  it  was  not  al-  together  right  to  support  an  already  too  powerful  government-these  had  com-  bined  in  Ned's  thoughts  into  a  moral  certainty  that  his  Thursday-night  cash  income  was  not  subject  to  the  in-  come  tax.  He  had  anyway  of  late  been  taking  losses,  Sheila,  his  wife,  was  in  analysis.  His  two  daughters  were  in  therapy.  His  son-he  did  not  know  what  to  think  about  his  son.  At  five,  the  boy  already  lacked  stamina,  lacked  ambition.  He  seemed  a  happy  little  boy,  but  there  was  no  question  that  he  was  far  behind  Doug  and  Netta  Forster's  five-year-old  in  intellectual  develop-  ment  and  motor  control.  He  was  also  far  less  tall.  Doug  was  Ned's  best  friend,  and  Ned  had  hated  him  since  their  earliest  childhood.  Doug  had  been  something  of  an  athlete.  Doug  had  won  full  scholarships  for  college  and  medical  school.  It  was  true  that  Ned  had  not  required  scholarships,  but  the  fact  was  that  he  had  not  had  them.  In  the  Army,  Doug  had  met  somebody  with  whom  he  had  invested  in  real  estate  in  [REDACTED].  Ever  since,  it  seemed  clear  that  he  was  marginally  richer  than  Ned  had  ever  been.  To  conceal     " b"this  fact,  this  disparity,  had  so  far  been  the  most  expensive  proposition  of  Ned  and  Sheila's  lives.  When  the  law  changed,  Ned  had  to  consider  these  and  other  enormous  pressures.  He  decided  to  make  no  con-  cession  whatever  to  the  change.  He  needed  the  money.  He  had  ten  years  of  Thursday-night  patients  as  evidence  that  when  they  needed  him  he  was  a  good  and  kindly  man.  Patients  trusted  him,  just  as  they  always  had,  as  they  should  have.  When  a  girl  or  a  wom-  an  now  came  to  him,  thinking  herself  pregnant  and  not  wanting  to  be,  he  told  her  to  come  to  his  office  Thursday  night.  In  a  very  short  time,  he  found  himself  instructing  patients  to  do  this  whether  the  tests  showed  they  were  ac-  tually  pregnant  or  not.  He  justified  this  to  himself  in  a  number  of  ways.  He  was  busy.  They  were  anxious.  In  patients  beyond  their  early  twenties,  the  operation  might  be  advisable,  in  terms  of  some  radical  hygiene.  Or  he  could  use  the  occasion  to  install  an  intra-  uterine  device.  The  result  of  this  rationalization  was  that  on  Thursday  nights  Ned's  wait-  ing  room  was  a  perfect  anachronism.  The  women,  girls  usually,  who  arrived  there  were  nervous,  embarrassed.  They  did  not  want  to  be  seen  by  the  others.  At  the  same  time,  each  thought  that  the  others  looked  legitimate.  Perhaps  the  others  were  there  only  forthe  installation  of  that  intrauterine  de-  vice.  The  receptionist  had  a  bright  and  maniacal  cheerfulness.  She  sat  there,  with  country-and-Western  music  blar-  ing  from  her  transistor,  checking  people  in.  By  eleven-fifteen,  when  even  the  last  patient  had  usually  checked  in,  the  receptionist  left.  On  any  given  Thursday,  there  might  be  a  fifteen-year-old,  shy,  not  pretty,  accompanied  by  an  overbear-  ing,  overcheerful  mother;  another  young  woman,  perhaps  a  grade-school  teacher,  evidently  religious,  miserable,  praying,  removing  her  rosary  from  a  purse  and  then  replacing  it,  uncertain  whether  she  could  use  a  rosary  on  such  a  day  or  not;  one  young,  engaged  couple;  one  apparently  adulterous  young  wife,  alone.  But  whereas  what  had  brought  people  to  Ned's  office  be-  fore  the  law  changed  was  usually  some-  thing  savvy,  something  knowledgeable,  in  having  got  such  an  address  at  all,  what  the  people  in  Ned's  office  now  had  in  common  was  ignorance,  and  perhaps  shame.  It  would  save  them  the  embarrassment  of  going  to  a  hospital,  he  said,  or  of  having  what  he  said  was  a  &quot;record&quot;  in  [REDACTED].  As  he  put  each  one  of  them  to  sleep,  with  his  own  special  intravenous  formula,  he  said,  &quot;Just  you  wait.  You'll  find  this  a  kind  of  high.&quot;  Then  he  worked  on  his  patients,  one  by  one,  through  the  night.  None  of  them  had  complications.  None  of  them  died.  The  jet,  Xerox,  the  abortion  law  (except  for  Ned,  who  may  be  the  only  dinosaur  I  know),  and  of  course,  of  course,  the  tape  record-  er-these  advances  in  terms  of  the  re-  versible  and  the  irreversible  are  one  line,  one  still  fuzzy  line,  between  our  set  and  the  last  set  and  the  next.  THERE  are  only  so  many  plots.  There  are  insights,  prose  flights,  rhythms,  felicitiee-but  only  so  many  plots.  At  a  slower  pace,  in  a  statelier  world,  the  equations  are  statelier.  The  mayor  haseloped  with  the  alderman's  wife,  and  it  was  to  be  expected  if  one  looksback.  The  children  of  both  cou-  ples  are  now  under  a  strain.  The  may-  or  and  the  alderman  won't  confide  in  each  other  or  be  doubles  partners  any-  more.  The  other  consequences,  it  will  turn  out,  might  have  been  foreseen.  In  three  households  and  two  generations,  and  in  the  tree  house  instantly,  the  track  can  still  be  kept.  In  class,  we  have  tried  to  enumerate  categories  of  story  line:  the  plot  of  things  on  their  way  to  one  another,  which  converge;  things  paral-  lel  to  one  another;  things  that  part;  things  that  gain  on  one  another,  in  a  chase.  There  is  always  time  as  an  ob-  stacle-to  the  future,  as  in  suspense;  in  nostalgia,  to  the  past.  One  need  only  have  a  sleeping  pill  and  a  thriller  racing  toward  a  confrontation  to  be  certain  thata  plot  is  not  just  a  conceit  like  any  other.  And  yet.  And  yet,  the  only  plots,  it  may  be,  are  trials  In  any  group  of  two  or  more,  it  may  be,  somebody  is  on  trial.  Sometimes  more  thin  one  person  is  on  trial,  and  sometimes  everyone  is,  But  not  for  long.  Under  the  law,  a  person     can  be  said  to  plan  alone  or  to  plot  alone,  but  not  to  conspire  alone.  There  are  other  things  no  one  cando  alone,  of  course:  be  a  mob,  ora  choir,  or  a  regiment.  Or  elope.  But  quite  often  seven  people  walk  off  intothe  sunset  all  together,  and  the  eighth  is  the  cus-  todian  of  the  plot.  A  FEW  years  ago,  the  wire  services  reported  that,  on  account  of  a  defective  latch,  the  cargo  door  on  a  DC-10  opened  in  flight.  A  coffin  fell  out.  A  lady  at  work  in  her  flower  gar-  den  saw  what  she  took  to  bea  coffin  fall  from  the  sky  intoa  neighboring  field.  Having  been  recently  widowed,  the  lady  made  the  obvious  inference.  She  put  down  her  trowel,  drove  to  the  nearest  state  asylum,  and  committed  herself.  When  reporters  reached  her,  to  tell  her  the  thing  had  really  hap-  pened,  and  to  ask  her  reaction  to  the  event,  the  lady  said  she  preferred  to  stay  right  where  she  was.  There  has  been  no  further  news  of  her,  or  of  the  lady  in  the  supermarket.  Twenty  years  from  now,  however,  thekid  accuser  in  the  supermarket  may  be  gaining  seniori-  ty  as  a  congressman.  PRIVATE  AUFRICHTIG  was  the  son  of  immigrants  from  [REDACTED].  He  had  graduated  from  a  yeshiva  and  from  college  in  Queens.  He  was  plan-  ning  to  become  a  C.P.A.  Private  Leh-  mann  was  the  son  ofa  famous  novelist  and  a  ballet  dancer.  He  had  gone  to  Exeter  and  Harvard.  He  was  planning  to  write  plays.  Both  men,  one  through  his  brother-in-law's  contacts  with  a  local  politician,  the  other  through  his  father's  friendship  with  a  retired  Army  general,  had  managed  to  avoid  the  draft  with  four  months'  active  service  in  the  National  Guard.  The  influence  of  the  politician  in  one  case  and  the  general  in  the  other  had  jumped  their  names  to  the  top  of  the  waiting  lists  at  local  armories.  At  five  o'clock  on  a  morning  in  February,  their  sec-  ond  morning  as  Guardsmen,  Privates  Aufrichtig  and  Lehmann  had  drawn  cleanup  duty  together.  They  had  al-  ready  been  working  forty  minutes  on  a  barracks  staircase.  The  mops  and  brushes,  even  the  soap  and  water,  seemed,  like  all  National  Guard  equip-  ment,  old  and  in  poor  condition.  Both  men  were  haggard  and  sleepy.  Both  men  were  cold.  On  a  step  near  the  top  landing,  Private  Aufrichtig  turned  to  his  colleague,  sighed  deeply,  and  spoke  his  first  words  of  the  morning.  &quot;Ach,  Lehmann,&quot;  he  said.  Private  Lehmann  replied  without  hesitation,  in  these  words,  &quot;Ach,  Aufrichtig.&quot;  Then  they  " b"both  sighed  and,  on  hands  and  knees  and  in  friendship,  finished  scrubbing  the  staircase  together.  HE  Begum  played  Scrabble.  Morning,  afternoon,  and  night,  on  the  beach,  aboard  the  boat,  in  the  harbor  night  club,  with  ordinary  sets,  or  Scrabble  dice,  or  cleated  letters  for  use  on  jolting  surfaces,  the  Begum  played.  The  Russians  had  smuggled  in  a  cheese,  of  which  they  were  proud.  Nobody  else  cared  much  for  it.  Appar-  ently,as  in  the  matter  of  wines,  there  exists  an  international  body  of  experts  which  rates  cheese.  Last  year,  for  the  first  time,  theSoviet  Union  invited  this  committee  to  come  and  test  its  cheeses.  The  committee  had  pronounced  itself  unable  to  distinguish  between  any  sin-  gle  Russian  cheese  andany  other-ex-  cept  one,  which,  on  the  basis  of  its  smell  and  general  appearance,  the  com-  mittee  members  unanimously  declined  even  to  taste.  The  Russians  on  our  is-  land  always  passed  around  this  cheese.  We  sat  on  the  beach.  The  Queen  was  an  inexhaustible  swimmer.  Some-  body  had  to  be  with  her  at  all  times  to  see  that  shedid  not  feel  lonely  or  drown.  She  talked  while  she  swam.  Ralph,  who  could  make  conversation  while  swimming,  was  with  her.  He  was  subject  to  chills;  when  he  came  out  of  the  water  after  one  of  these  long  swims,  he  would  stammer  with  cold.  His  girl  and  her  brother  were  sitting  beside  us.  Being  naturally  fair,  they  were  now  very  sunburned.  They  stayed  wrapped  in  their  towels,  and  did  crosswords,  or  tuned  in  to  their  program  of  news  from  the  mainland,  or  did  whatever  else  seemed  amiable,  or  kind,  or  polite.  When  Jim's  friends  from  the  days  when  he  was  in  the  O.S.S.  first  settled  there,  they  tried  to  raise  cattle,  for  milk.  There  were  already  small  herds  of  wild  cattle,  from  past  generations,  at  large  in  the  hills  Within  a  few  weeks,  the  wild  cows,  having  entered  the  pastures  by  night,  had  lured  the  tame  cattle  into  the  hills  with  them.  Now  wild  cows  and  tame  cows,  side  by  side,  would  come  thundering  through  the  palms  of  an  evening,  churning  up  the  few  flower  beds  and  grazing  on  the  few  lawns  there  were.  People  began  to  surround  their  lawns  with  enormous  rolls  of  barbed  wire.  Every  carefully  watered  green  thing  was  now  fortified  against  the  cows.  T  City  Hall,  as  on  the  campus,  negotiations  are  in  progress.  It  is  not  at  all  clear  to  me  what  a  negotia-  tion  is.  Union  and  management,  say,  terrorist  and  foreign  minister,  buyer  and  seller,  kidnapper  and  F.B.I.  agent,  husband  and  wife;  at  least  two  parties  anyway  disagree.  'They  exchange  views.  A  strike,  perhaps,  a  war,  a  bankruptcy,  a  murder,  adivorce  im-  pends.  One  side  begins,  and  claims  it  can  accept  no  less.  The  other  responds,  saying  it  can  afford  no  more.  It  is  clear  to  both  sides,  from  the  start,  that  both  positions  are  false.  They  proceed  to  bargain  then,  in  what  is  called  good  faith.  Bad  faith  exists  when  a  side  takes  both  positions  to  be  absolutely  true,  then  deals  with  something  other  than  negotiation  in  its  heart-stalling  for  time,  for  instance,  so  that  allies  may  arrive  and  bomb  the  house.  Good-faith  negotiation  requires  a  liar's  margin  of  some  sort.  &quot;I  can't  stand  it,&quot;  some-  body  says.  &quot;I  can't  help  it,&quot;  someone  else  replies.  Justice  is  called  upon,  as  well.  At  City  Hall,  when  they  negoti-  ate,  the  parties  get  a  little  sleep  on  the  floors  of  rooms  across  a  hall.  Night  after  night.  In  4972616e,  in  the  oil  negotiations  of  1971,  a  representative  of  the  companies  absentmindedly  left  a  memo  on  the  bargaining  table  dur-  ing  the  lunch  break  of  the  first  day.  The  memo  outlined  the  companies'  fallback  position  on  any  compromise  that  they  could  consider  tolerable.  A  reporter  bought  the  memo  from  a  jani-  tor.  It  was  published  in  the  paper  the  next  morning.  The  fallback  position  became  the  position  at  which  the  talks  began;  the  remainder  of  the  negotia-  tions  entailed  the  companies'  retreat  from  their  original  final  position.  The  absentmindedness,  almost  everyone  agreed,  was  real.  .  N  the  matter  of  jobs,  I  think  I  know  nine  spies.  Eight  are  American.  One  is  foreign.  One  has  dual  citizen-  ship.  It  is  hard  to  know  what  they  do,  exactly,  except  that  they  are  inex-  haustibly  gregarious.  It  is  not  thinkable  that  any  of  the  nine  could  learn,  or  for  that  matter  keep,  a  secret.  I  am  certain  that  they  do  not  hover  over  microfilms  or  denounce  friends,  Two  " b"date  starlets.  One  lives  from  time  to  time  with  d\xc3\xa9butantes,  now  divorced,  whom  he  has  known  since  boarding  school.  I  guess  what  these  spiese-if  they  are  spies,  and  I'm  sure  they  are-  are  paid  to  do  is  observe  trends.  Why  any  government  should  pay  them  to  observe  trends  is  not  clear  to  me.  It  may  be  that  there  are  times  when  any  information  about  anything  whatever  seems  to  have  a  valid  quality.  More  likely,  spying  is  one  more  featherbedding,  overpaid  bu-  reaucracy.  Certainly  all  nine  are  snobs,  with  manifold,  even  catholic  snobberies:  class,  money,  power,  fame,  fad,  culture,  byline,  notori-  ety.  They  are  all  best  men  at  controversial  second  wed-  dings;  escorts  of  abandoned  wives;  godfathers  of  very  late  litters  of  chil-  dren;  fixtures  at  black-tie  dinners  for  convicted  forgers  who  have  published  memoirs  and  for  rehabilitated  dope  pushers  and  stranglers  who  hold  visit-  ing  professorships  of  Urban  Planning  and  Reform.  Each  of  the  nine  seems  to  be  liked  by  everyone  except  the  other  eight.  Our  agents  are  fluent  in  at  least  a  second  language,  but  then  we  all  are.  I  don't  know  why  we  were  not  all  asked  to  be  agents,  but  we  weren't.  The  only  one  who  claims  he  was  and  who  now  drinks  and  talks  about  it  is  Lane  Prell,  who  needs  to  be  an  authority  on  most  matters.  Whenever  the  C.I.A.  is  men-  tioned,  and  Lord  knows  itis  men-  tioned  often,  Lane  becomes  nostalgic,  confidential,  cynical.  His  point  is  that,  when  he  was  with  the  Agency  in  some  exotic  country,  which  he  is  not  at  liberty  to  name,  the  Agency  was  not  even  competent  to  arrange  an  abortion  for  a  young,  highly  valued  contact,  whom,  on  that  aecount,  it  lost.  True  or  false,  this  anecdote  evidently  means  a  lot  to  Lane,  He  seems  to  find  in  it  an  immense,  a  universal  relevance.  &quot;[REDACTED],&quot;  he'll  say.  &quot;Don't  tell  me  about  [REDACTED].  When  I  was  with  the  Agency,  do  you  know  we  couldn't  even  arrange  ...&quot;  or  &quot;Clan-  destine  activities.  Don't  make  me  laugh.  When  I  was  with  the  Agency,  we  couldn't  even  manage  ...&quot;  Apart  from  Lane,  though,  we  all  regard  as  fraught,  and  even  graceless,  allusions  to  such  personal  concerns  as  race,  re-  ligion,  income,  politics,  sexual  proclivi-  ties,  and,  now,  institutional  affiliation.  RE  you  shaky  on  ladders?&quot;  Jim  said.  It  had  crossed  my  mind  just  then.  I  had  never  been  shaky  on  ladders  in  my  life  before.  I  looked     down  the  three  flights  of  ladders  to  the  cement  floor.  I  laughed.  &quot;Hell,  no,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Not  at  all.&quot;  &quot;It  would  be  O.K.,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Fears  are  such  aper-  sonal  thing.&quot;  I  would  not  have  been  scared,I  think,  if  I  had  been  wearing  sneakers  and  jeans.  But  climbing  around  a  construction  site  in  high  heels  and  all,  I  was  beset  by  an  extreme  proposition  of  What  if.  What  if  I  just  cleave  to  the  rungs  and  hover  here,  without  looking  down  at  the  concrete?  Nothing  could  be  done.  If  Jim  were  to  hold  out  his  hand  from  the  rungs  above,  it  wouldn't  help;  if  I  leaned  back,  the  entire  ladder  would  probably  fall.  The  thing  is  to  eradicate  the  What  if,  or  at  least  postpone  it,  until  it  becomes  an  appropriate,  theoretical  speculation,  on  the  stable  ground.  HE  idea  of  hostages  is  very  deep.  Becoming  pregnant  is  taking  a  hostage-as  is  running  a  pawnshop,  being  abank,  receiving  a  letter,  or  listening  to  aconfidence.  Every  love  story,  every  commercial  trade,  every  matter  in  which  trust  is  involved,  is  a  gentle  transaction  of  hostages.  Black-  mailing,  kidnapping,  then,  are  among  the  extreme  violations  of  the  deal.  Anyway,  I  seem  to  be  about  to  have  Jim's  child;  at  least,  I  think  I  will,  and  the  thing  is  that  I  haven't  mentioned  it  to  Jim.  AR  from  it.&quot;  There  he  is  again.  &quot;Don't  dwell  on  it.&quot;  E  had  been  heading  for  it  all  afternoon.  Every  time  we  all  decide  to  do  something  out  of  doors,  we  begin  the  day  with  a  sense  of  exu-  berant  good  health,  followed  by  a  slow  intoxication  of  danger.  Often  it  ends  mildly.  Somebody  barefoot  steps  on  broken  glass,  or  one  of  the  beer  drinkers  cuts  himself  on  the  tin.  One  year,  somebody's  guest  from  Palo  Alto  actually  inhaled  a  cinder  of  his  mari-  juana.  Other  times,  someone  missteps  serving  at  tennis,  falls,  turns  gray.  In  every  case,  it  winds  up  in  the  emer-  gency  room.  When  this  happens,  itis  always  past  four  in  the  afternoon.  Whoever  is  hurt  always  apologizes.  The  form  is  from  school  days.  Who-  ever  got  carsick  and  made  theschool  bus  stop,  whoever  had  a  tantrum  and  then  high  fevers  on  the  way  to  the  mu-  seum  always  spoke  of  spoiling  it  for  everyone.  Counting  the  wounded  at  the  end  of  an  afternoon  these  days,  as  they  still,  if  they  are  conscious,  apolo-  " b"gize  for  spoiling  it  for  everybody,  we  often  find  they  outnumber  the  one  or  two  hale  whom  they  think  they  have  spoiled  it  for.  When  Dan  rode  his  bicycle  over  a  cliff,  we  all  behaved  in  characteristic  ways.  We  were  in  Central  Park.  There  was  intense  competition  for  calm,  for  sane  instructions.  Cover  him,  take  his  pulse,  call  a  doctor,  get  an  am-  bulance,  stand  back,  raise  his  head,  don't  move  him,  leave  him  room  and  air.  He  had  been  riding  his  bicycle  at  full  speed,  with  a  kind  of  Western-  yodel  whoop,  over  the  cliff  edge.  It  had  been  a  dare.  He  was  out  quite  cold.  In  the  rush  to  help,  Jeff  and  Lee-  who  are  really  the  nicest  of  us-quietly  returned  all  the  bicycles,  including  Dan's,  with  its  bent  frame  and  man-  gled  wheel,  to  the  store  from  which  we  had  rented  them  forthe  day.  Two  uniformed  men  appeared.  They  told  Dan  to  get  up.  He  opened  his  eyes.  &quot;Lie  still,&quot;  Jim  said.  &quot;Wait  for  the  ambulance.&quot;  One  of  the  uniformed  men  said,  &quot;Hey,  man,  we  are  the  am-  bulance.&quot;  Dan  blinked.  He  tottered  up  a  steep  hill  to  their  car.  He  sat  on  a  stretcher.  They  let  him  sit  up,  oc-  casionally  bumping  his  head  lightly  against  the  roof,  all  the  way  to  the  hos-  pital.  He  mumbled  apologies.  Ralph's  girl,  in  a  helpless  daze  of  solicitude,  held  Dan's  shoe  in  her  lap.  Situps  aside,  it  is  possible  that  we  are  really  a  group  of  invalids,  hypochondriacs,  and  mis-  fits.  Every  time  somebody  gets  hurt,  someone  else  inevitably,  inevitably,  twists  something  or  runs  into  some-  thing.I  don't  know,.  Even  our  peo-  ple  who  stay  fit  with  yoga  seem  to  be,  more  than  others,  subject  to  the  flu.  \xe2\x80\x9cDO  you  realize  how  angry  you  sound?&quot;  must  be  one  of  the  most  infuriating  questions  in  the  lan-  guage.  &quot;Good  morning,&quot;  says  the  poet's  wife,  quite  sunny-natured.  &quot;Do  you  realize,&quot;  the  poet  replies,  &quot;how  angry  you  sound?&quot;  The  poet's  wife,  confused,  pacific,  says  she  isn't  at  all  angry.  He  repeats  his  question.  Three  more  disclaimers  on  her  part;  on  his,  three  more,  apparently  calm  and  dead-  pan,  repetitions,  and  she  is  in  fact  be-  side  herself.  We  are  all,  from  time  to  time,  too-well,  too  vehement.  But  there  doesn't  seem  to  be  much  anger  in  our  set.  ON  a  charter  flight,  I  once  met  a  middle-aged  black  man  from  [REDACTED],  who  had  served  in  the  Sec-  ond  World  War,  put  himself  through  school,  and  then  through  college  in  the  [REDACTED].  His  oldest  son  had  won  a  scholarship  to  Yale,  At  the  end  of  his  junior  year,  the  son  dropped  out.  He  was  going  to  travel  across  the  country,  play  the  guitar,  and  find  himself.  Shirtsleeves  to  shirtsleeves  in  one  gen-  eration,  in  these  times,  perhaps.  Or  the  boy  might  become  a  star  and  send  all  his  own  sons,  and  his  daughters,  to  Yale.  JIM  has  in  his  mind,  I  think,  one  erratically  ringing  alarm  clock,  one  manacled  dervish,  onedormouse,  re-  plete  with  truisms,  and  one  jurist  with  a  clarity  of  such  an  order  that  I  tend  to  love  his  verdict  in  most  things.  So,  there  is  this  question  of  this  hos-  tage,  if  that's  what  it  is,  and  there  is  the  fact  of  my  not  having  mentioned  it.  These  days,  Jim  says,  very  often,  &quot;Well,  I  had  to  make  a  decision.  In  my  judgment,  it  was  the  right  one;  I'll  stand  by  it.&quot;  Every  politician  seems  to  like  to  say  that.  I  don't  care  for  it.  Having  somebody's  children  is  not,  of  course,  the  sort  of  thing  that  yields  much  to  consultation.  There  it  is.  One  simply  does  it.  On  the  other  hand,  there  seems  to  me  no  time,  even  years  from  now,  when  such  a  decision  is  not  sub-  ject  to  review.  Leaving  aside  the  more  gothic  possibilities,  what  if  one's  son  (or,  and  this  seems  unimaginable,  daughter)  simply,  from  the  first  and  in  every  way,  doesn't  turn  out  right,  or  is  unhappy  all  his  life,  what  then?  I  don't  know  what  then.  &quot;You  can't  miss  it&quot;  always  means  you're  nevergoing  to  find  it.  The  shortest  distance  between  two  points  may  well  be  the  wrong  way  on  a  one-way  street.  All  the  same,  all  the  same,  I  think  there's  something  to  be  said  for  assuring  the  next  that  the  water's  fine-quite  warm,  actually-  once  you  get  into  it.  You  can't  miss  it.  It  could  be  that  the  sort  of  sentence  one  wants  right  here  is  the  kind  that  runs,  and  laughs,  and  slides,  and  stops  right  on  a  dime. "