 b"IN  college  Annie  was  a  psychology  major,  and  she  married  a  fool.  I  was  in  literature  and  married  a  junkie.  After  college,  we  lived  in  New  York.  We  met  for  lunch  sometimes,  Annie  and  I,  and  our  slight  friendship  has  lasted  longer  and  certainly  proved  more  pleasant  than  the  associations  we  formed  with  our  husbands.  Pleasant,  if  distant,  but  that's  the  way  I've  been  keeping  things  lately.  Two  years  ago,  when  I  got  divorced,  I  moved  to  a  farm,  an  hour  from  [REDACTED].  Most  old  friends  are  impressed  when  I  tell  them,  and  say  how  far  north  I  am.  But  it  is  just  where  I  live,  not  north.  I  could  have  ended  anywhere  when  I  left  the  city.  Last  January  I  went  to  New  York  on  business.  I  edit  books  free  lance  for  the  publishing  house  where  I  worked  when  I  was  married.  My  friend  Chan-  ning  is  the  house  editor  I  work  with  most  often,  and  she  likes  to  see  me  when  I  finish  a  project,  so,  grum-  bling,  worried  that  I'll  bring  the  wrong  clothes,  I  occasionally  gather  myself  up  and  take  the  bus  to  New  York.  This  time  I  was  pleased  to  be  going  to  the  city.  Christmas  was  over  and  all  I  could  see  ahead  was  long  weeks  of  snow  or,  worse,  rain.  Annie  had  extended  an  invitation  when  she'd  visited  me  in  the  fall  with  her  friend  Patrick  and  his  four-year-old  daugh-  ter,  Cherie.  &quot;I  have  plenty  of  room,&quot;  she'd  said.  &quot;You  know  that,  Ellen.  Any  time.  Call  first.&quot;  When  I  did  call,  she  said  that  it  was  fine  for  me  to  come  and  leave  my  things  but  that  she  needed  the  apartment  alone  the  first  night  I  planned  to  be  in  the  city  because  Patrick  was  stay-  ing  over.  That  was  O.K.  with  me.  For  that  one  night  I  could  stay  with  Channing  or  someone  a  from  the  office.  ai.  -  Annie  lives  in  the  Vil-  2.  lage,  in  a  building  that  you  enter  by  walking  through  a  tunnel  under  another  building  and  across  a  courtyard.  Then  you  go  down  some  stairs,  up  two  flights,  and  you  are  at  Annie's  door.  On  the  first  floor  of  the  apartment  there  is  a  small  entrance  hall,  a  bedroom,  and  a  bathroom.  Upstairs  there  is  a  tiny  kitchen  and  a  large  living  room  w  ith  a  marble  f  ireplace  and  a  cathedral  ceiling  t  hat  is  tw  o  stor  ies  high.  A  skylight  runs  the  length  of  the  room.  The  walls  are  painted  white  and  plants  hang  from  th  e  skylight.  This  roo  m  is  one  of  the  most  dramatic  I've  see  n.  It  looks  like  New  York  to  me.  I  arrived  at  Annie's  apartment  carl  y  o  n  a  Monday  mo  rning,  nine  hours  aft-  er  I'd  left  home,  and  Annie  told  me  she  could  talk  for  only  a  few  minutes.  She  was  studying  hard  for  the  Grad-  uate  Re  cords,  she  said.  Annie  had  a  master's  in  social  work  and  worked  part  time  as  a  therapist  in  a  clinic  in  [REDACTED],  but  she  wanted  a  Ph.D.  in  psychology,  and  was  explaining  why  when  the  phone  rang  upst  airs.  Annic  went  to  answer  it,  and  I  settled  in,  hanging  my  skirt  an  d  my  good  blouse  in  the  bedroom  closet.  After  a  while,  Ann  ie  ca  me  bac  k  downstairs.  She  leaned  against  the  bed  -  room  doo  r  an  d  watched  me  rummage  in  my  suitcase.  &quot;You  can  sleep  here  to-night  after  [REDACTED];  she  said.  &quot;Patrick's  not  coming.&quot;  &quot;It's  off  again?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Who  knows?&quot;  She  moved  into  the  room  and  sat  down  on  the  dou-  ble  bed.  &quot;I  never  know.  He  never  knows.  I'm  beginning  not  to  care,  I  guess.&quot;  &quot;How  was  it  over  Christmas?&quot;  I  asked.  I  hardly  knew  Patrick,.  I'd  only  seen  him  for  a  few  hours  at  my  house,  but  I  remembered  her  saying  that  he  went  a  little  crazy  on  holidays.  &quot;We  stayed  with  my  father,  and  I  was  so  crazy  he  didn't  get  his  chance,&quot;  Annie  said.  &quot;And  we  had  Cherie  with  us.&quot;  She  looked  up  at  her  bulletin  board  where,  pinned  among  invitations  to  art  openings  and  postcards  from  exotic  places,  there  was  a  color  photo  of  Patrick's  little  girl.  She  was  as  blond  as  Annie.  She  looked  like  Annie.  &quot;It's  funny.  It's  worse  for  me  not  seeing  her  than  Patrick,&quot;  Annie  said.  I  had  troubles  of  my  own.  I'd  made  a  date  for  that  night  with  my  ex-  husband,  Harry,  who  had  written  at  Christmas  to  ask  if  we  could  have  din-  ner  the  next  time  I  came  to  Gotham,  as  he  called  it.  Since  the  divorce,  we  hadn't  seen  each  other.  I'd  heard  he  " b"was  living  with  a  woman  I'd  met  years  ago  at  a  party.  She  was  so  drunk  she  almost  fell  into  the  fireplace.  Fortu-  nately,  it  was  June  and  there  was  no  danger.  She  carried  it  off  nicely.  I'd  sent  Harry  a  postcard  agreeing  to  have  dinner,  because  I  figured  I  might  never  see  him  again.  He'd  prom-  ised  to  die  young  and  was  now  thirty.  Either  that  promise  would  be  added  to  the  others  he'd  broken  or  it  would  hap-  pen.  I  would  see  him,  I  told  myself,  justto  check  it  out.  I  told  Annie  I'd  be  back  about  ten.  We  arranged  to  have  dinner  together  the  following  night.  I  said  I  would  cook.  She  gave  me  her  extra  set  of  keys,  and  I  watched  her  climb  the  stairs  back  to  her  books.  ROUND  noon  I  took  the  subway  uptown  and  went  to  the  office,  where  I  was  welcomed  by  all  my  old  friends.  We  sat  in  Channing's  office  and  talked  the  usual  talk:  Life  in  the  city,  life  in  the  country.  The  bottom  line,  I  wanted  to  tell  them,  is  that  it's  possible  to  move  great  distances  and  change  nothing  but  the  scenery.  But  I  didn't.  Instead,  I  talked  cost  and  cli-  mate,  views  and  living  without  first-  run  movies.  I  enjoyed  sitting  in  that  glass  tower,  and  I  was  struck  by  our  confidence  that  it  wouldn't  fall  or  burn  as  we  drank  coffee  and  made  jokes.  The  building  wasn't  much  more  than  five  years  old  and  perhaps  when  it  was  thirty  would  be  destroyed  and  a  differ-  ent  one  erected  in  its  place.  At  some  point,  six  or  seven  of  us  were  talking  and  someone,  I  think  it  w  MIARAK  d  MAY  TRucWine  _-  was  Bill  from  Production,  mentioned  a  salesman  named  Dieter.  He  said,  &quot;Oh,  I  knew  there  was  something  new  to  tell  you.  Dieter  is  [REDACTED];  Of  course,  he  wasn't  so  wrong  to  be  casual.  It  was  old  news  to  him.  And  Dieter  and  I  hadn't  been  great  or  close  friends.  I'd  liked  him.  We'd  had  lunch  once  a  week  or  so  and  gossiped  about  peo-  ple  in  the  office.  &quot;How  did  he  die?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Downtown.  On  the  docks,&quot;  Chan-  ning  said.  I  could  tell  from  the  way  she  said  it  that  she  didn't  want  to  keep  talk-  ing  about  Dieter;  her  desk  used  to  be  next  to  mine  and  we'd  listened  to  each  other's  phone  calls  for  years.  &quot;What  do  you  mean,  the  docks?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;He  was  beaten  to  death,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;He  was  gay.  You  know  that.&quot;  Poor  Dieter,  I  thought  as  Chan-  ning  and  Bill  discussed  Chinese  food  versus  the  nearest  bar.  When  I  first  left  the  city,  I'd  been  afraid  to  return  and  find  things  had  changed  without  me,  and  here  was  Dieter  dead,  wiped  out,  simple  as  that.  We  all  went  downstairs  for  a  long  Chinese  lunch,  then  dragged  ourselves  back  to  the  office  and  scattered  to  our  places:  desks  in  the  hall  for  proof-  readers,  copy  editors,  and  secretaries;  cubicles  with  windows  for  editors.  They  had  adjusted  to  my  being  there  and  it  was  like  old  times.  I  showed  Channingwhat  I'd  done  with  my  last  book,  and  she  gave  me  a  new  project.  It  was  by  two  young  archi-  tects,  tentatively  titled  &quot;How  to  De-  sign  Anything.&quot;  I  was  to  meet  the  authors  the  next  day.  They  didn't  want  the  book  to  be  too  organized,  Channing  told  me,  and  I  was  supposed  to  explain  to  them  that  it  had  to  have  a  begin-  ning,  middle,  and  end.  The  day  was  drawing  to  a  close.  I  figured  I  could  meet  Harry  at  seven  for  dinner  and  still  join  some  people  from  work  at  the  bar  where  we  used  to  go.  That  way,  I  could  be  back  at  Annie's  at  ten  and  asleep  not  long  aft-  er  my  usual  hour.  At  four  I  called  Harry:  I  could  hear  him  smiling  as  he  said  hello  to  me.  Harry  is  so  cold  that  when  he  is  even  cordial  it's  like  the  sun.  I  stood  with  my  back  to  the  group  of  secre-  taries'  desks  and  watched  the  digital  clock  on  the  Newsweek  building.  Har-  ry  and  I  have  always  been  great  phone  talkers,  and  now  he  began  describing  in  detail  his  cat's  progress  across  the  liv-  ing-room  floor.  Finally,  I  said,  &quot;Pd  better  get  off  the  phone,  Harry.  How  about  seven  at  O'Hoolihan's?  I'm  going  there  with  Pat  and  Betsy.&quot;  &quot;Seven's  a  little  tight.&quot;  &quot;How  could  it  be  tight?  We're  not  just  going  to  grab  a  hot  dog  for  din-  ner,  are  we?&quot;  I  was  feeling  a  little  nostalgic  now  forthe  days  of  living  with  a  speed  freak-the  arguments  over  whether  he  would  eat  or  not.  I  thought  I'd  hold  off  telling  him  about  Dieter  until  we  were  face  to  face.  He'd  liked  Dieter  the  few  times  they'd  met.  &quot;Dinner  at  all  is  a  little  tight,&quot;  Harry  said.  &quot;I  got  a  ticket  for  the  opera  tonight.  'Boris  Godunov.'  &quot;  &quot;One  ticket?&quot;  " b"&quot;I  was  really  lucky  to  get  any.  A  friend  handed  it  to  me  an  hour  ago.  It's  in  the  third  row.  Center.&quot;  &quot;Harry.  We  were  going  to  have  dinner  tonight.  I  haven't  seen  you  for  years.  You  haven't  seen  me.  This  was  your  idea.&quot;  &quot;Darling.  Don't  be  silly.  We  can  have  a  drink.  If  you  get  in  acab,  you  can  be  here  in  ten  minutes,  you  know.  Or  we  can  meet  after  the  opera.&quot;  I  saw  that  he  thought  he  was  being  flexible,  and  knew  all  was  lost.  &quot;O.K.,  Harry,&quot;  I  said.&quot;I'll  be  there.&quot;  I  hung  up  and  went  to  see  Chan-  ning.  I  asked  her  if  we  could  go  over  the  manuscript  in  the  morning.  &quot;I've  got  to  go  now,&quot;  I  said.  She  looked  at  me  calmly  and  said,  &quot;Sure.  What's  the  matter?  The  rep-  robate  again?&quot;  &quot;How  did  you  know?&quot;  &quot;'Your  hands  area  dead  giveaway.  He  can  get  you  shaking  faster  than  anyone.&quot;  &quot;Channing,  am  I  unreasonable?  We  were  supposed  to  have  dinner,  but  someone  gave  him  a  free  ticket  for  the  opera.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know  about  you,  but  if  someone  says  to  me  we're  having  din-  ner,  that's  what  I  assume  we'll  do.  There  are  not  two  meanings  to  that  statement.&quot;  She  spoke  so  positively  that  I  picked  up  the  phone  and  dialled  Harry's  number.  &quot;I  can't  do  it,  Harry,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  just  rode  on  a  bus  for  nine  hours  and  worked  all  day,  and  I'm  not  jumping  into  any  cab  to  see  you  for  fifteen  minutes.&quot;  &quot;'There's  more  than  fifteen  minutes  before  the  opera.&quot;  &quot;Stop  it,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;We  were  supposed  to  have  dinner  and  now  we  won't.  You  stood  me  up.,\xe2\x80\x99  Your  self-righteousness  as-  tounds  me.&quot;  He  paused.  &quot;You  act  as  if  you  never  change  your  plans.  I  can  think  of  plenty  of  plans  you've  changed.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  like  the  level  of  this  conversation,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;You  don't  like  hearing  yourself  criticized.  That's  what  you  don't  like.&quot;  &quot;This  isn't  criticism.  This  is  a  sidetrack,&quot;  I  said,  andsaw  that  everyone  within  ten  feet  was  staring  at  me.  It  was  just  like  old  times,  me  shouting  at  Harry  over  the  office  phone.  After  a  silence,  he  said,  &quot;O.K.  O.K.  We'll  meet  after  the  opera.  Then  we  can  talk.  If  that's  what  you  want.&quot;  &quot;Harry.  That  is  no  concession.  And  no,  Harry,  I  don't  think  I  want  to  see  you.&quot;  I  hung  up.  I  had  hung  up  on  Harry  once  be-  fore,  years  before.  We  were  supposed  to  go  on  a  fishing  trip  and  didn't  be-  cause  at  the  last  minute  he  called  me  at  work  to  say  someone  had  invited  us  to  [REDACTED]-some  rich  person  who  was  going  to  lend  him  money.  We'd  stay  in  a  mansion,  he  said;  we'd  eat  pie  in  the  sky.  I  remembered  how  hurt  he'd  been  at  my  not  giving  him  a  chance  to  explain  and  the  fight  we'd  had  that  night  when  I  came  home.  Then  Ire-  membered  how  I  felt  in  the  country  when  I  got  his  letter  asking  me  if  I  would  see  him  in  Gotham  and  how  pleased  I  had  been,  and  I  thought  back  farther  to  times  when  we  had  been  the  best  of  friends  to  one  anoth-  er.  I  walked  into  an  empty  cubicle  and  dialled  Harry's  number  again.  &quot;I  don't  like  being  hung  up  on,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'That's  why  I'm  calling  back,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I'm  sorry.  I  don't  like  not  seeing  you  tonight.&quot;  &quot;We  can  see  each  other.  I  told  you.&quot;  &quot;Can  you  give  this  a  little  distance  for  a  minute?  Can  you  see  my  point  of  view  at  all?&quot;  I.  was  speaking  soft-  ly,  because  he  also  hates  being  yelled  at.  &quot;We  can  see  each  other  after  the  opera.  Or  you  can  come  up  now.&quot;  \xc2\xabWill  you  answer  my  questions?&quot;  &quot;No.  You're  being  completely  un-  reasonable.  And  you  know  it.  Why  do  you  have  to  be  so  emotional  about  this?&quot;  I  hate  being  told  I  am  unreasonable  or  emotional,  and  Harry  knows  it.  &quot;That's  it,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;There's  nothing  else  to  say.&quot;  &quot;Of  course  there  is,&quot;  Harry  said,  but  his  voice  faded  as  I  took  the  re-  ceiver  from  my  ear  and  placed  it  back  in  its  cradle.  I  sat  at  the  desk  for  a  while  and  watched  people  hurry  by.  Phones  rang  frantically.  Typewriters  clattered.  How  could  I  have  been  so  stupid  and  let  this  happen  to  me  again?  I  put  my  head  down  on  the  desk  and  cried.  Channing  came  over,  and  Pat  and  Betsy,  my  old  pals.  Bill  from  Produc-  tion  walked  by,  I  think.  I  stopped  cry-  ing.  Only  exhaustion,  I  explained,  be-  cause  there  wasn't  anything  left  to  say  about  Harry  andme.  I  went  to  O'Hoolihan's  with  Pat  " b"and  Betsy.  Channing  came  along  also,  I  think  to  keep  an  eye  on  me.  She  views  everyone  as  incompetent  and  in  need  of  her  cool  services  to  one  degree  or  another.  In  this  case,  she  was  right.  I  started  my  third  Scotch  and  Chan-  ning  insisted  I  eat  a  hamburger.  I  hadn't  eaten  beef  for  months-not  since  I  was  last  in  New  York-but  I  didn't  have  it  in  me  to  explain  that  to  her,  to  go  through  the  whole  con-  versation.  I  felt  she  would  think  I  was  an  ass,  pouring  liquor  down  my  throat  and  talking  about  my  health.  I  ate  the  hamburger,  which  was  ex-  cellent  and  rare,  and  orderedanother  drink.  We  spoke  of  divorce,  of  therapy,  and  then  of  ex-lovers.  Betsy  had  re-  cently  divested  herself  of  one  of  the  best-looking  men  any  of  us  had  ever  seen.  An  orphan,  an  actor,  a  baby,  a  psychotic,  she  pronounced;  but  the  pride  in  her  voice  as  she  described  his  antics  was  a  remnant  of  her  feeling  for  him,  or  at  least  of  her  enchant-  ment.  Pat  was  more  or  less  living  with  a  man.  He  was  away  a  great  deal,  and  when  he  returned  she  came  into  the  office  with  great  circles  under  her  eyes.  They  drank,  she  confessed,  until  they  could  hardly  see  each  other  and  made  love  until  they  didn't  want  to  anymore,  and  then  he  left.  It  didn't  sound  all  that  bad,  but  it  didn't  seem  enviable.  They  asked  me  what  I  did  up  there  in  the  sticks,  and  I  shrugged,  ex-  amined  the  table,  and  said  that  I  did  what  I  could.  In  truth,  I  do  very  little.  Any  lover  who  comes  too  close  looks  like  Harry,  and  the  others  break  my  heart  in  a  different  way.  Only  Channing  had  what  could  be  called  a  sensible  relationship  with  a  man.For  four  years  she  has  been  at-  tending  classes  in  Theosophy.  At  one  class  she  met  a  man  who  was  also  interested  in  Theosophy,  and  a  year  later  he  moved  into  her  apartment.  They  bicycle  together  around  [REDACTED].  Last  summer  they  visited  me  on  their  way  to  climb  some  peak  in  the  Adirondacks.  But  even  Channing  has  something  unsettling  to  say-a  thread  to  add  to  the  ragged  day.  A  few  nights  before,  while  they  were  making  love,  she'd  announced  she  was  bored.  What  ensued  she  didn't  describe  and  we  didn't  pursue  it.  NNIE  had  warned  me  not  to  rely  on  the  bell  because  more  often  than  not  it  didn't  work.  She  also  told  me  that  the  building  had  beenrobbed   four  times  in  the  last  year  and  that  peo-  ple  always  tried  to  jimmy  the  lock.  Therefore,  the  set  of  keys  she'd  given  me  might  not  work.  The  one  for  the  first  door,  the  door  to  the  tunnel,  didn't.  I  stood  there,  trying  it  forcefully  and  softly,  casually  and  with  tension.  I  thought  of  Dieter  being  beaten  to  death  only  a  few  blocks  west  of  where  I  stood.  My  fear  of  being  attacked  from  behind  increased  until,  just  when  I'd  given  up,the  key  turned  and  I  walked  through  the  tunnel  to  Annie's  building.  Annie  was  upstairs  in  the  big  room,  sitting  on  a  hard  chair  before  a  round  dining  table  strewn  with  papers  and  books.  The  lamp  that  hung  over  the  table  illuminated  her  blond  hair,  mak-  ing  it  shine.  She  smiled  when  I  reached  the  top  of  the  stairs  and  stumbled  on  the  last  step.  &quot;Did  you  and  Harry  have  a  few?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;Me  and  Harry?&quot;  I  said,  not  re-  membering  for  a  minute  what  she  was  talking  about.  &quot;Oh,  we  didn't  go  anywhere.  Coffee?  Tea?  I'll  make  tea.&quot;  I  stood  in  the  narrow  kitchen  as  steadily  as  I  could  and  waited  for  the  water  to  boil,  shouting  out  to  Annie  how  it  had  really  gone  with  Harry.  We  sat  with  our  cups  of  tea  in  front  of  her  cold  fireplace  and  Annie  talked  about  her  determination  to  get  her  doctorate.  There  was  a  trust  fund,  she  said.  At  twelve  she  had  been  told  she  would  inherit  enough  money  sothat  she  would  never  have  to  work  for  a  living,  but  she  had  renounced  her  mon-  ey  except  for  a  small  income.  There  was  an  unbreakable  clause  in  the  trust,  however,  which  guaranteed  her  educa-  tion  for  as  many  degrees  as  she  liked-  and  she  seemed  to  like  having  several.  " b"She  could  sue  now  for  control  of  her  money,  but  she  would  not.  At  the  age  of  thirty,  Annie  was  content  to  be  gov-  erned  by  a  twelve-year-old's  sense  of  the  way  money  should  righteously  be  spent.  Then  we  talked  about  Patrick,  to  whom  she'd  spoken  again.  It  was  hope-  less,  she  said.  &quot;He's  a  child,  I'm  a  child.  But  he's  mad.&quot;  Later  Annie  and  I  got  into  long  flannel  nightgowns  and  lay  side  by  side  in  her  bed.  &quot;I  didn't  know  it  would  be  like  this,&quot;  I  remember  saying,  thinking  how  I  had  viewed  thirty  at  eighteen.  I  was  glad  to  be  at  Annie's.  I've  al-  ways  liked  sleepovers.  I  was  telling  her  a  story  about  the  country-how  I  was  snowed  in  and  didn't  mind  at  first,  then  did;  who  came  to  plow  me  out-  when  we  both  fell  asleep.  Annie  left  for  the  clinic  early  the  next  morning,  even  before  I  had  to  consider  getting  up  and  seeing  the  ar-  chitects  and  Channing.  She  slammed  the  door  and  I  heard  the  police  lock  snap  into  place,  then  silence.  I  went  back  to  sleep,  stretching  out  on  the  bed  that  was  now  all  mine,  and  dreamed  of  an  old  boyfriend  and  his  three  brothers.  In  my  dream  the  boyfriend  and  I  were  so  in  love  that  it  hurt.  The  brothers  floated  through  the  dream  like  page  boys,  handing  us  things,  helping  us  into  rooms  and  through  doors.  I  opened  my  eyes,  maybe  at  some  slight  sound,  and  saw  a  very  young  woman  standing  in  front  of  Annie's  dresser.  She  was  wearing  a  tan  duffel  coat.  Her  hair  was  blond,  but  a  deeper,  pinker  shade  than  Annie's,  and  she  looked  no  more  than  twenty.  She  turned  and  looked  at  me,  then  raised  one  finger  to  her  lips.  Her  gesture  was  a  command.  Do  not  look,  it  said.  Do  not  speak.  Close  your  eyes.  Do  not  be  here.  I  closed  my  eyes.  The  apartment  was  being  robbed.  I  could  be  hurt.  It  was  as  if  I  had  lost  my  body  below  my  neck.  I  could  not  feel  my  legs  or  arms;  all  I  felt,  really,  were  my  eyes,  closed  as  commanded.  In  the  darkness  there  were  blocks  of  light  passing.  I  thought  at  one  point  I  saw  the  room  again  and  was  afraid  my  eyes  had  opened  involuntarily.  I  considered  running  forthe  door,  but  what  would  I  do  outside  the  apartment,  barefoot  in  my  flannel  nightgown?  I  wondered  if  I  was  a  fool,  lying  and  waiting  to  be  spared.  Then  I  thought,  Should  I  fight?  But  what  for?  The  credit  cards  that  lay  " b"in  my  wallet  on  Annie's  dresser?  An-  nie's  television  or  stereo?  Then  I  knew-I  don't  know  how,  but  I  was  sure-that  she  would  be  joined  by  a  man.  I  thought  of  the  door  again  and  running.  A  woman  might  spare  me,  but  a  man  would  not.  I  could  promise  not  to  tell  any-  one  that  I'd  seen  her,  but  we  weren't  children.  My  promise  would  mean  nothing  to  them.  I  heard  the  woman  go  into  the  little  hall  by  the  apartment  door,  and  then  she  came  back  into  the  bedroom  and  stopped  by  my  side  of  the  bed.  There  was  nothing  of  value  on  the  night  table--my  cheap  watch,  a  ring  with  a  glass  stone  that  looks  like  amethyst,  and  a  paperback  book.  It  was  excruciating,  trying  to  breathe  evenly  as  she  stood  over  me.  Then  she  walked  away,  and  there  was  a  cer-  tain  coldness  next  to  me  where  she  had  been.  I  heard  her  footsteps  on  the  stairs.  My  eyes  were  closed,  though  she  was  upstairs  and  couldn't  see  me.  A  long  time  seemed  to  pass.  I  heard  the  ticking  of  my  watch.  From  the  bathroom  I  heard  a  baby  crying  and  then  the  flapping  of  wings,  and  I  felt  a  rush  of  air.  A  bird  flew  through  the  room  and  it  was  over.  I  opened  my  eyes.  The  first  thing  I  saw  was  theapart-  ment  door.  It  was  closed  and  the  po-  lice  lock  was  on.  Its  bar  was  in  place,  braced  between  the  door  and  the  floor.  There  wasno  way  the  woman  could  have  entered  the  apartment.  I  got  out  of  bed  and  dressed  quickly.  Whatever  had  happened,  I  had  to  be  uptown  at  work.  But  I  was  still  too  frightened  to  simply  leave.  I  went  upstairs  and  looked  around  the  living  room  and  the  kitchen.  No  one  was  there.  I  picked  up  the  phone  and  called  Sam,  my  old  psy-  chiatrist,  Even  after  two  years  I  knew  the  number  by  heart.  The  phone  rang  twice  and  Sam  answered.  &quot;It's  me,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Ellen.  I  know  it's  been  a  while.  But,  Sam,  I  think  I'm  hallucinating.&quot;  &quot;How  interesting,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Someone's  with  you  now?&quot;  &quot;How  about  calling  back  at  eleven?  You  are  all  right,  aren't  you?&quot;  &quot;Fine,  fine,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Only  hallucinating.&quot;  On  the  subway  up-  town  I  thought,  It  wasn't  a  hallucination  at  all.  What  I  sawand  heard  couldn't  be  ex-  plained.  And  then,  amazing,  ly,  I  forgot  the  whole  thing.  I  went  to  the  office,  picked  up  the  architects'  manuscript,  and  spent  the  morning  reading  it.  Eleven  o'clock  came  and  went,  and  when  I  remembered  my  morning  call  to  Sam  I  felt  foolish  but  obliged  to  call  him  back.  Again  a  pa-  tient  was  with  him,  so  I  said  I'd  call  at  two.  Channing  and  I  ordered  sand-  wiches  and  malts,  and  sat  in  the  edi-  tor-in-chief's  office  eating  and  talking  about  the  manuscript.  By  one,  I  was  on  my  way  to  see  the  architects,  plan-  ning  what  I'd  make  for  dinner  for  Annie  and  me  and  thinking  a  little  about  Harry.  The  architects  were  like  their  man-  uscript:  disorganized,  at  first  quite  charming,  and  then  annoying.  When  we  were  through  discussing  the  book,  we  had  coffee  and  I  found  myself  tell-  ing  them  what  had  happened  that  morning.  &quot;A  ghost,&quot;  one  of  them  said.  &quot;'That  happened  to  me,&quot;  said  the  other,  and  told  me  that  one  night  his  entire  family,  eight  people,  dreamed  the  same  dream.  He  couldn't  remem-  ber  the  dream,  however.  Now  it  was  three,  and  Irealized  I  still  hadn't  spoken  to  Sam.  When  I  called  this  time,  he  was  free  to  talk,  and  I  told  him  everything  that  had  happened.  &quot;It  must  have  been  frightening,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Yes.&quot;  I  was  grateful.  &quot;Terribly.&quot;  &quot;It  sounds  as  if  the  place  is  haunt-  ed,&quot;  Sam  said.  &quot;I  think  it  must  be.  Or  something.  You  don't  think  it's  because  I  was  an-  gry  at  Harry  or  I'm  in  the  city?&quot;  &quot;Why  should  it  be?&quot;  &quot;Actually,  it  feels  as  ifit  has  nothing  to  do  with  me  at  [REDACTED];  I  said.  &quot;That's  what  makes  it  so  peculiar.&quot;  DECIDED  to  make  Annie  a  din-  ner  of  chicken,  vegetables,  and  salad,  and  I  beat  my  way  through  the  rush-hour  A.  &amp;  P.  to  get  the  raw  ma-  terial.  In  the  vegetable  department,  half  the  packages  had  been  vandalized.  The  lettuce  was  limp.  The  deadline  stamped  on  the  chicken  package  was  near.  It  was  dark  out  and  it  began  to  rain  as  I  left  the  A.  &amp;  P.  By  the  time  I  made  it  to  the  liquor  store,  the  paper  bag  of  groceries  was  melting.  The  man  in  the  store  was  nice  and  helped  me  repack  the  food.  I  bought  a  better  bottle  of  wine  than  I  would  have  otherwise,  and  continued  to  Annie's.  Again  it  took  a  few  minutes  to  get  the  first  door  open.  The  light  was  out  in  the  tunnel  and  I  hurried  into  the  courtyard.  When  I  entered  the  apart-  ment,  everything  was  as  it  should  have  been.  There  was  the  hushed  air  of  rooms  empty  for  hours.  I  poured  my-  self  some  of  Annie's  Scotch,  put  on  some  music,  and  started  to  make  din-  ner.  Annie  has  a  lot  of  excellent  and  expensive  cooking  equipment,  most  of  it  covered  by  a  thin  layer  of  grease  and  dust.  When  Annie  came  home,  an  hour  and  a  half  later,  she  called  up  from  below  and  I  hung  over  the  bannister  and  watched  her  take  off  her  coat  and  boots.  &quot;Exhausted,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  am  wiped  out.&quot;  Then  she  came  upstairs  " b"and  sniffed  the  air,  saying,  &quot;Food.  My  God.  Real  food  in  my  house.&quot;  I  start-  ed  to  say  how  easy  it  was  to  cook  for  yourself,  when  I  remembered  that  when  I  lived  in  New  York  I  ate  home-  cooked  food  only  when  someone  else  made  it.  &quot;Well,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;it's  nice  to  be  here.&quot;  Annie  cleared  her  books  and  papers  from  the  table,  and  began  to  set  the  table.  I  had  just  taken  the  chicken  from  the  oven  and  was  transferring  it  to  a  platter  when  the  phone  rang.  We  both  stopped  what  we  were  doing.  I  remembered  phones  ringing  in  our  col-  lege  dorm  and  the  suspense  until  it  was  announced  who  was  wanted.  Annie  told  me,  half  relieved,  half  envious,  that  it  was  for  me.  &quot;Look,&quot;  Harry  said  on  the  phone.  &quot;Everything  will  be  O.K.  when  we  geta  few  things  straightened  out.&quot;  &quot;Like  what?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Like  the  fact  that  you  can't  dictate  what  I'm  going  to  do  of  an  evening  just  because  you're  in  town.&quot;  &quot;Now  wait  a  minute,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;You  said  we  were  going  to  have  dinner.  I  didn't  imagine  it.  I  didn't  even  suggest  it,,  &quot;Ellen.  Be  real  for  once.  I  said  we'd  get  together.&quot;  &quot;In  your  letter  you  said  we'd  have  dinner.&quot;  &quot;Well.  If  you  read  that,  you  read  wrong.&quot;  &quot;W  hat  do  you  mean,  &quot;if  ?&quot;  &quot;I  never  wrote  that.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  lie,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  don't  lie.  Who  do  you  think  you're  talking  to?  One  of  your  friends?  I  don't  have  any  damn  reason  to  lie  where  you're  concerned.&quot;  I  would  have  gone  on,  but  I  saw  Annie's  face  as  she  set  the  wineglasses  on  the  table.  She  was  try-  ing  not  to  hear,  which  was  impossible.  Worse,  she  was  trying  not  to  be  upset.  &quot;I'm  getting  off  this  phone,  Harry,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;There's  nothing  left  to  straighten  out,&quot;  and  again  I  hung  up  on  him.  Of  course  the  minute  I  did  and  went  back  to  the  chicken,  I  felt  aw-  ful.  While  I  recounted  the  conversa-  tion  to  Annie,  I  waited  for  the  phone  to  ring,  hoping  he  would  try  again,  but  he  didn't.  When  we  began  eat-  ing,  I  gave  up  waiting.  &quot;A  strange  thing  happened  this  morning,&quot;  I  said  to  Annie,  to  change  the  subject.  I  told  her  then  about  see-  ing  a  woman  in  the  apartment.  &quot;What  did  she  look  like?  What  did  she  do,&quot;  Annie  interrupted.  &quot;She  was  young,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Blond.  A  strawberry  blond,  and  she  was  wearing  a  duffel  coat.&quot;  I  continued  telling  Annie  about  it--the  way  the  woman  had  put  her  finger  to  her  lips,  her  standing  by  the  bed,  her  going  upstairs.  &quot;Patrick  saw  her  too,&quot;  Annie  said.  &quot;But  I  thought...  He's  crazy,  you  know.&quot;  &quot;What  exactly  did  he  see?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;He  saw  her-the  same  hair  and  she  was  young-but  he  saw  her  in  a  long  white  dress,  She  came  into  the  bedroom  where  he  was  sleeping.  I'd  left  for  work  already.  When  Patrick  woke  up  and  saw  her,  she  did  that  too.&quot;  Annie  raised  her  finger  to  her  lips.  &quot;Then  what?&quot;  \xc2\xabShe  told  him  she  was  going  up-  stairs.  She  said,  'I'm  going  upstairs  now,'  and  then  she  went  upstairs.  But  we  explained  all  that.&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  mean  you  explained  all  that?&quot;  &quot;Well,  he  was  very  anxious.  We'd  just  come  back  from  my  father's  house.  And  what  my  shrink  said  was  that  it  was  really  anger  at  me  for  abandoning  him.&quot;  &quot;What's  that  supposed  to  mean?&quot;  &quot;I  left  him  and  Cherie  in  the  guest  bedroom  at  my  father's  and  I  slept  up-  stairs  in  my  old  bedroom  without  him.  I  left  him  in  a  strange  house  where  he  didn't  know  where  anything  was.&quot;  &quot;And  what  did  Patrick's  shrink  say?&quot;  &quot;He  said  Patrick  was  dreaming.  That's  all  it  was.  A  dream.&quot;  We  ate  the  chicken  and  our  talk  drifted  to  our  friends  fromcollege-  where  they  were,  who  with,  if  any-  one-and  Annie's  plans.  &quot;I've  lived  here  for  four  years,&quot;  Annie  said,  look-  ing  around  the  white  room.  &quot;I've  never  lived  anywhere  so  long.  I  went  from  school  to  school,  from  parent  to  parent,  thenwith  my  husband,  and  then  here.  I  painted  it  myself  and  fig-  ured  out  how  to  hang  those  plants  on  the  pulley  so  they  come  downwhen  I  want  to  water  them.  I'm  not  going  to  apply  to  schools  outside  of  New  York.  I'm  not  going  to  give  up  such  a  good  apartment.&quot;  The  phone  did  not  ring  again  that  " b"night.  Annie  described  a  man  she'd  met  recently  and,  listening  to  her  dis-  cuss  the  prospects  for  a  new  relation-  ship,  I  felt  weary  and  envious.  She  is  good  at  probabilities  and,  now  that  she's  been  through  so  much  school,  has  a  better  vocabulary  for  disasters.  I  slept  well  and  in  the  morning  woke  at  the  same  time  Annie  did.I  started  to  pack  right  away.  I  was  leaving  New  York  that  day  after  an-  other  session  with  Channing  and  the  architects.  I  thanked  Annie,  and  we  discussed  her  coming  up  Easter  or  maybe  in  May.  My  friends  from  the  city  don't  visit  in  the  winter,  and  I  was  leaving  New  York  with  the  prospect  of  a  long  respite  from  their  company.  I  felt  relief  edged  with  dread.  At  the  end  of  the  day,  I  had  to  fight  my  way  to  Port  Authority  through  the  rush-hour  crowds,  dragging  my  suit-  case  and  the  manuscript,  sweating  un-  derneath  my  winter  coat  and  sweaters.  I  was  dressed  for  my  destination.  The  line  for  the  night  bus  to  Montreal  was  very  long,  and  I  could  see  the  bus  was  going  to  be  packed.  I  had  my  usual  moment  at  the  bus  station.  All  during  a  visit  I  may  think  how  odd  city  people  are  and  how  tenuous  their  relationship  to  the  material  world.  Then,  on  line  for  the  journey  north,  I  look  at  the  other  travellers,  a  little  dumpier,  slow-  er,  and  more  patient  than  I,  and  I  am  out  of  place  once  again.  When  the  bus  starts,  I'm  all  right.  We  came  out  of  the  tunnel  into  New  Jersey,  and  I  began  thinking  about  the  woman  I'd  seen,  almost  companionably,  as  one  of  the  New  Yorkers  I  was  leaving  behind  me.  She  would  stay  there  in  the  city  with  Channing  and  Annie,  Harry  and  Pat-  rick,  and  even  with  Dieter.  I  wondered  for  the  first  time  since  I'd  seen  her  who  the  man  was  she  expected  and  if  he  had  ever  joined  her  there.  I  won-  dered  if  it  was  their  baby  crying  and     what  had  become  of  their  time  to-  gether.  I  didn't  think  she  was  a  dream.  I  know  when  I'm  dreaming  and  when  I'm  not.  I  think  now  that  she  is  a  per-  son  who  doesn't  want  to  leave-that  she,  like  myself  and  perhaps  like  every-  one  else,  cannot  bear  for  anything  to  end. "