 b"IN  the  third  summer  of  the  war  I   began  to  meet  refugees.  There  were  large  numbers  of  them  in  [REDACTED]-to  me  a  source  of  infinite  wonder.  I  could  not  get  enough  of  them.  They  came  straight  out  of  the  twilit  Socialist-literary  landscape  of  my  reading  and  my  desires.  I  saw  them  as  prophets  of  a  promised  social  order  that  was  to  consist  of  justice,  equali-  ty,  art,  personal  relations,  courage,  generosity.  Each  of  them-Belgian,  French,  Catholic  German,  Socialist  German,  Jewish  German,  Czech-  was  a  book  I  tried  to  read  from  start  to  finish.  My  dictionaries  were  films,  poems,  novels,  Lenin,  Freud.  That  the  refugees  tended  to  hate  one  another  seemed  no  more  than  a  deplorable  accident.  Nationalist  pigheadedness,   that  chronic,  wasting,  and  apparent-  ly  incurable  disease,  was  known  to  me  only  on  Canadian  terms  and  I  did  not  always  recognize  its  symp-  toms.  Anything  I  could  not  decipher  I  turned  into  fiction,  which  was  my  way  of  untangling  knots.  At  the  of-  fice  where  I  worked  I  now  spent  my  lunch  hour  writing  stories  about  peo-  ple  in  exile.  I  tried  to  see  [REDACTED]  as  an  Austrian  might  see  it  and  to  feel  whatever  he  felt.  I  was  entirely  at  home  with  foreigners,  which  is  not  surprising-the  home  was  all  in  my  head.  They  were  the  only  people  I  had  met  until  now  who  believed,  as  Idid,  that  our  victory  would  prove  to  bea  tidal  wave  nothing  could  stop.  W  hat  I  did  not  know  was  how  many  of  them  hoped  and  expected  their  neigh-  bors  to  be  washed  away  too.  I  was  nineteen  and  for  the  third  time  in  a  year  engaged  to  be  mar-  ried.  What  I  craved  at  this  point  was  not  love,  or  romance,  or  a  life  added  to  mine,  but  conversation,  which  was  harder  to  find.  I  knew  by  now  that  a  man  in  love  does  not  necessarily  have  anything  interestingto  say:  If  he  has,  he  keeps  it  for  other  men.  Men  in  [REDACTED]  did  not  talk  much  to  women  and  hardly  at  all  to  young  ones.  The  impetus  of  love-of  infatuation,  rath-  er-brought  on  a  kind  of  conversation  I  saw  no  reason  to  pursue.  A  remark  such  as  &quot;I  can't  live  without  you&quot;  made  the  speaker  sound  not  only  half-  witted  to  me  but  almost  truly,  literally,  insane.  There  is  a  girl  in  a  Stefan  Zweig  novel  who  says  to  her  lover,  &quot;Is  that  all?&quot;  I  had  pondered  this  care-  fully  many  years  before,  for  I  sup-  posed  it  had  something  unexpected  to  do  with  sex.  Now  I  gave  it  another  meaning,  which  was  that  where  wom-  en  were  concerned  men  were  satisfied  with  next  to  nothing.  If  every  woman  was  a  situation,  she  was  somehow  al-  ways  the  same  situation,  and  what  was  expected  from  the  woman-the  situa-  tion-was  so  limited  it  was  insulting.  I  had  a  large  opinion  of  what  I  could  do  and  provide,  yet  it  came  down  to  &quot;Is  that  all?  Is  that  all  you  expect?&quot;  Being  promised  to  one  person  after  another  was  turning  into  a  perpetual  state  of  hesitation  and  refusal:  I  was  not  used  to  hesitating  over  anything  and  so  I  supposed  I  must  be  wrong.  The  men  in  my  office  had  warned  me  of  the  dangers  of  turning  into  a  mar-  ried  woman;  if  this  caution  affected  me  it  was  only  because  it  coincided  with  a  misgiving  of  my  own.  My  pri-  vate  name  for  married  women  was  Red  Queens.  They  looked  to  me  like  the  Red  Queen  in  &quot;Through  the  Looking-  Glass,&quot;  chasing  after  other  people  and  minding  their  business  for  them.  To  get  out  ofthe  heat  that  summer  I  had  taken  a  room  outside  [REDACTED]  in  an  area  called  simply  &quot;the  Lakeshore.&quot;  In  those  days  the  Lakeshore  was  a  string  of  verdant  towns  with  next  to  no  traf-  fic.  Dandelions  grew  in  the  pavement  cracks.  The  streets  were  thickly  shad-  ed.  A  fragrance  I  have  never  forgotten  of  mown  grass  and  leaf  smoke  drifted  from  yard  to  yard.  As  I  walked  to  my  commuters'  train  early  in  the  morning  I  saw  kids  still  in  their  pajamas  dig-  ging  holes  in  the  lawns  and  Red  Queen  wives  wearing  housecoats.  They  stuck  their  heads  out  of  screen  doors  and  yelled  instructions-to  husbands,  to  children,  to  dogs,  to  postmen,  to  a  neighbor's  child.  How  could  I  be  sure  I  wouldn't  sound  that  way-so  shrill,  so  discontented?  As  for  a  family,  the  promise  of  children  all  stamped  with  the  same  face,  cast  in  the  same  genetic  mold,  seemed  a  cruel  waste  of  pos-  sibilities.  I  would  never  have  voiced  this  to  anyone,  for  it  would  have  been  thought  unnatural,  even  monstrous.  When  I  was  very  young,  under  seven,  my  plan  forthe  future  had  been  to  " b"live  in  every  country  of  the  world  and  have  a  child  in  each.  I  had  confided  it:  with  adult  adroitness  my  listener  ied  me  on.  How  many  children?  Oh,  one  to  a  country.  And  what  would  you  do  with  them?  Travel  in  trains.  How  would  they  go  to  school?  I  hate  schools.  How  will  they  learn  to  read  and  write,  then?  They'll  know  al-  ready.  What  would  you  live  on?  It  will  all  be  free.  That's  not  very  sen-  sible,  is  it?  Why  not?  As  a  result  of  this  idyll,  of  my  divulgence  of  it,  I  was  kept  under  watch  for  a  time  and  my  pocket  money  taken  away  lest  I  save  it  up  and  sail  to  a  tropical  island  (where  because  of  the  Swiss  Family  Robinson  I  proposed  to  begin)  long  before  the  onset  of  puberty.  I  think  no  one  re-  alized  I  had  not  even  a  nebulous  idea  of  how  children  sprang  to  life.  I  mere-  ly  knew  two  persons  were  required  for  a  ritual  I  believed  had  to  continue  for  nine  months,  and  which  I  imagined  in  the  nature  of  a  long  card  game  with  mysterious  rules.  When  I  was  finally  &quot;told&quot;  as  it  turned  out-I  was  offended  at  being  asked  to  believe  something  so  unreasonable,  which  could  not  be  true  because  I  had  never  come  across  it  in  books.  This  trust  in  the  printed  word  seems  all  the  more  re-  markable  when  I  remember  thatI  thought  children's  books  were  written  by  other  children.  Probably  at  nineteen  I  was  still  dim  about  relevant  dates,  plain  facts,  brass  tacks,  consistent  rea-  soning.  Perhaps  I  was  still  hoping  for  magic  card  games  to  short-circuit  ev-  ery  sort  of  common  sense-common  sense  is  only  an  admission  we  don't  know  much.  I  know  that  I  wanted  to  marry  this  third  man  but  thatI  didn't  want  to  be  anybody's  Red  Queen.  The  commuters  on  the  [REDACTED]  train  never  spoke  much  to  each  other.  The  mystifying  and  meaningless  &quot;Hot  enough  for  you?&quot;  was  about  the  ex-  tent  of  it.  If  I  noticed  one  man  more  than  the  anonymous  others  it  was  only  because  he  looked  so  hopelessly  Eng-  lish,  so  unable  or  unwilling  to  concede  to  anything,  even  the  climate.  Once,  walking  a  few  steps  behind  him,  I  saw  him  turn  into  the  drive  of  a  stone  house,  one  of  the  few  old  French-Canadian  houses  in  that  particular  town.  The  choice  of  houses  seemed  to  me  peculiar-  ly  English  too-though  not,  of  course,  what  French  Canadians  call  &quot;English,&quot;  for  that  includes  plain  Canadians,  Irish,  Swedes,  anything  you  like  not  natively  French.  I  looked  again  at  the  house  and  at  the  straight  back  goingalong  the  drive.  His  wife  was  on  her  knees  holding  a  pairof  edging  shears.  He  stopped  to  greet  her.  She  glanced  up  and  said  something  in  a  carrying  British  voice  so  wild  and  miserable,  so  resent-  ful,  so  intensely  disagreeable  that  it  could  not  have  been  the  tag  end  of  a  morning  quarrel;  no,  it  was  the  thunderclap  of  some  new  engagement.  After  a  second  he  went  on  up  the  walk,  and  in  another  I  was  out  of  ear-  shot.  I  was  persuaded  that  he  had  seen  me;  I  don't  know  why.  Ialso  thought  it  must  havebeen  humiliating  for  him  to  have  had  a  witness.  Which  of  us  spoke  first?  It  could  not  have  been  himand  it  most  certain-  ly  could  not  have  been  me.  There  must  have  been  a  collision,  for  there  we  are,  speaking,  on  a  station  platform.  It  is  early  morning,  already  hot.  I  see  once  again,  without  surprise,  that  he  is  not  dressed  for  the  climate.  He  said  he  had  often  wondered  what  I  was  reading.  I  said  I  was  read-  ing  &quot;all  the  527573736961ns.&quot;  He  said  I  really  ought  to  read  Arthur  Waley.  I  had  never  heard  of  ArthurWaley.  Similar  signalling  takes  place  between  galaxies  rushing  apart  in  the  outer  heavens.  He  said  he  would  bring  me  a  book  by  Arthur  Waley  the  next  day.  &quot;Please  don't.  I'm  careless  with  books.  Look  at  the  shape  this  one's  in.&quot;  It  was  the  truth.  &quot;All  the  527573736961ns&quot;  were  being  published  in  a  uniform  edi-  tion  with  flag-red  covers,  on  greyish  paper,  with  microscopic  print.  The  wordswere  jammed  together;  you  could  not  have  put  a  pin  between  the  lines.  It  was  one  of  those  cheap  editions  I  think  we  were  supposed  to  be  sending  the  troops  in  order  to  cheer  them  up.  Left  in  the  grass  beside  a  tennis  court  &quot;'The  Possessed&quot;  now  curved  like  a  shell.  A  white  streak  ran  down  the  middle  of  the  shell.  The  rest  of  the  cover  had  turned  pink.  That  was  noth-  ing,  he  said.  All  I  needed  to  do  was  dampen  the  cover  with  a  sponge  and  put  a  weight  on  the  book.  &quot;The  Wal-  let  of  Kai  Lung&quot;  had  been  to  Cey-  lon  with  him  and  had  survived.  What-  ever  bait  &quot;Ceylon&quot;  may  have  been  caught  nothing.  Army?  Civil  Service?  Idid  not  take  it  up.  Anyway  I  thought  I  could  guess.  &quot;You'd  better  not  bring  a  book  for  nothing.  I  don't  always  take  this  train.&quot;  He  had  probably  noticed  me  every  morning.  The  mixture  of  reserve  and  obstinacy  that  next  crossed  his  face  I  see  still.  He  smiled,  oh,  not  too  much:  I'd  have  turned  my  back  on  a  grin.  He  said,  &quot;I  forgot  to  ..  .  Frank  Cairns.&quot;  &quot;Muir.  Linnet  Muir.&quot;  Reluctantly.  The  thing  is,  I  knew  all  about  him.  He  was,  one,  married  and,  two,  too  " b"old.  But  there  was  also  three:  Frank  Cairns  was  stamped,  labelled,  ticketed  by  his  tie  (club?  regiment?  school? ) by  his  voice,  manner,  haircut,  suit;  by  the  impression  he  gave  of  being  strand-  ed  in  a  jungle,  waiting  for  a  rescue  party-from  [REDACTED],  of  course.  He  belonged  to  a  species  of  British  im-  migrant  known  as  remittance  men.  Their  obsolescence  began  on  3  Septem-  ber  1939  and  by  8  May  1945  they  were  extinct.  I  knew  about  them  from  having  had  one  in  the  family.  Frank  Cairns  worked  in  a  brokerage  house-  he  told  me  later-but  he  probably  did  not  need  a  job,  at  least  not  fora  liv-ing.  It  must  have  been  a  way  of  order-  ing  time,  a  flight  from  idleness,  perhaps  a  means  of  getting  out  of  the  house.  HE  institution  of  the  remittance  man  was  British,  its  genesis  a  chemical  structure  of  family  pride,  class  insanity,  and  imperial  holdings  that  seemed  impervious  to  fission  but  in  the   end  turned  out  to  be  more  fragile  than  anyone  thought.  Like  all  superfluous  and  marginal  persons,  remittance  men  were  characters  in  a  plot.  The  plot  be-  gan  with  a  fixed  scene,  an  immutable  first  chapter,  which  described  a  power-  ful  father's  taking  umbrage  at  his  son's  misconduct  and  ordering  him  out  of  the  country.  The  pound  was  then  one  to  five  dollars,  and  there  were  vast  Brit-  ish  territories  everywhere  you  looked.  Hordes  of  young  men  who  had  some-  how  offended  their  parents  were  shipped  out,  golden  deportees,  to  Can-  ada,  [REDACTED]  Africa,  New  Zealand,  [REDACTED].  They  were  reluctant  pio-  " b"neers,  totally  lacking  any  sense  of  ad-  venture  or  desire  to  see  that  particular  world.  An  income-the  remittance-  was  provided  on  a  standing  banker's  order,  with  one  string  attached:  &quot;Keep  out  of  [REDACTED].&quot;  For  the  second  chap-  ter  the  plot  allowed  a  choice  of  six  crimes  as  reasons  for  banishment:  Con-  flict  over  the  choice  of  a  profession-  the  son  wants  to  be  a  tap-dancer.  Gam-  bling  and  debts-he  has  been  barred  from  Monte  Carlo.  Dud  checks-&quot;I  won't  press  a  charge,  sir,  but  see  that  the  young  rascal  is  kept  out  of  harm's  way.&quot;  Marriage  with  a  girl  from  the  wrong  walk  of  life-&quot;Young  man,  you  have  made  your  bed!&quot;  Fathering  an  illegitimate  child:  &quot;,  .  .  and  broken  your  mother's  heart.&quot;  Homosexuality,  if  dis-  covered  :  too  grave  for  even  a  lecture-  it  was  acriminal  offense.  This  is  the  plot  of  the  romance:  this  is  what  everyone  repeated  and  what  the  remittance  man  believed  of  him-  self.  Obviously,  it  is  a  load  of  codswal-  lop.  A  man  legally  of  age  could  marry  the  tattooed  woman  in  a  circus,  be  ar-  rested  for  check-bouncing  or  for  so-  liciting  boys  in  Green  Park,  be  obliged  to  recognize  his  by-blow  and  even  to  wed  its  mother,  become  a  ponce  or  a  professional  wrestler,  and  still  remain  where  he  was  born.  All  he  needed  to  do  was  eschew  the  remittance  and  tell  his  papa  to  go  to  hell.  Even  at  nineteen  the  plot  was  a  story  I  wouldn't  buy.  The  truth  came  down  to  something  just  as  dramatic  but  boring  to  tell:  a  classic  struggle  for  dominance  with  two  protagonists-strong  father,  pliant  son.  It  was  also  a  male  battle.  No  son  was  ever  sent  into  exile  by  his  moth-  er,  and  no  one  has  ever  heard  of  a  remittance  woman.  Yet  daughters  got  into  scrapes  nearly  as  often  as  their  brothers.  Having  no  idea  what  money  was,  they  ran  up  debts  easily.  Some-  times,  out  of  ignorance  of  another  sort,  they  dared  to  dispose  of  their  own  virginity,  thus  wrecking  their  value  on  the  marriage  market  and  becoming  family  charges  for  life.  Accoucheurs  had  to  be  bribed  to  perform  abortions;  or  else  the  daughters  were  dispatched  to  Austria  and  [REDACTED]  to  have  babies  they  would  never  hear  of  again.  A  daughter's  disgrace  was  long,  ex-  pensive,  and  hard  to  conceal,  yet  no  one  dreamed  of  sending  her  thousands  of  miles  away  and  forever:  on  the  con-  trary,  she  became  her  father's  unpaid  servant,  social  secretary,  dog  walker,  companion,  sick  nurse.  Holding  on  to  a  daughter,  dismissing  a  son  were  relatively  easy:  it  depended  on  hav-  ing  tamely  delinquent  children,  or  a  thunderous  personality  no  child  would  dare  to  challenge,  and  on  the  weapon  of  money-bait  or  weapon,  as  you  like.  Banished  young,  as  a  rule,  the  re-  mittance  man  (the  RM,  in  my  private  vocabulary)  drifted  for  the  rest  of  his  life,  never  quite  sounding  or  look-  ing  like  anyone  around  him,  seldom  raising  a  family  or  pursuing  an  oc-  cupation  (so  much  for  the  &quot;choice  of  profession&quot;  legend  )-remote,  dreamy,  bored.  Those  who  never  married  often  became  low-key  drunks.  T  he  remittance  was  usually  ample  without  being  hand-  some,  but  enough  to  keep  one  from  doing  a  hand's  turn;  in  any  case  few  remittance  men  were  fit  to  do  much  of  anything,  being  well  schooled  but  half  educated,  in  that  specifically  English  way,  as  well  as  markedly  unaggressive  and  totally  uncompetitive,  which  would  have  meant  early  death  in  the  New  World  for  anyone  without  an  income.  They  were  like  children  waiting  for  the  school  vacation  so  that  they  could  go  home,  except  that  at  home  nobody  wanted  them:  the  nursery  had  been  turned  into  a  billiards  room  and  Nanny  dismissed.  They  were  parted  from  mothers  they  rarely  mentioned,  whom  in  some  way  they  blended  with  a  Ru-  pert  Brooke  memory  of  [REDACTED],  of  the  mother  country,  of  the  Old  Coun-  " b"try  as  everyone  at  home  grew  old.  Often  as  not  the  payoff,  the  keep-away  blackmail  funds,  came  out  of  the  moth-  er's  marriage  settlement-out  of  the  capital  her  own  father  had  agreed  to  settle  upon  her  unborn  children  during  the  wear  and  tear  of  Edwardian  en-  gagement  negotiations.  'The  son  dis-  graced  would  never  see  more  than  a  fixed  income  from  this;  he  was  cut  off  from  ashare  of  inheritance  by  his  con-  tract  of  exile.  There  were  cases  where  the  remittance  ended  abruptly  with  the  mother's  death,  but  that  was  consid-  ered  a  bad  arrangement.  Usually  the  allowance  continued  forthe  exile's  lifetime  and  stopped  when  he  died.  No  provision  was  made  for  his  dependents,  if  he  had  them,  and  because  of  his  own  subject  attitude  to  money  he  was  un-  likely  to  have  made  any  himself.  The  income  reverted  to  his  sisters  and  broth-  ers,  to  an  estate,  to  a  cat-and-dog  hos-  pital-whatever  his  father  had  de-  creed  on  some  black  angry  day  long  before.  Whatever  these  sons  had  done  their  punishment  was  surely  a  cruel  and  singular  one,  invented  for  naughty  children  by  a  cosmic  headmaster  tak-  ing  over  for  God:  they  were  obliged  to  live  over  and  over  until  they  died  the  first  separation  fromhome,  and  the  incomparable  trauma  of  rejection.  Yes,  they  were  like  children,  perpetually  on  their  way  toa  harsh  school;  they  were  eight  years  of  age  and  sent  &quot;home&quot;  from  496e646961  to  childhoods  of  secret  grieving  among  strangers.  And  this  wound,  this  amputation,  they  would  mercilessly  inflict  on  their  own  chil-  dren  when  the  time  came-on  sons  always,  on  daughters  sometimes-per-  suaded  that  early  heartbreak  was  right  because  it  was  British,  hampered  only  by  the  financial  limit  set  for  banish-  ment:  it  costs  money  to  get  rid  of  your  young.  And  how  they  admired  their  fathers,  those  helpless  sons!  They  spoke  of  them  with  so  much  admiration,  with  such  a  depth  of  awe:  only  in  memory  can  such  voices  still  exist,  the  calm  English  voice  on  a  summer  night-a  Canadian  night  so  alien  to  the  speak-  er-insisting,  with  sudden  firmness,  with  a  pause  between  words,  &quot;My  .  ..  father  ...  once  .  ..  said  ...  to  ...  me  .  ..&quot;  and  here  would  follow  some-  thing  utterly  trivial,  some  advice  about  choosing  a  motorcar  or  training  a  dog.  To  the  Canadian  grandchildren  the  unknown  grandfather  was  seven  foot  tall  with  a  beard  like  George  V,  while  the  grandmother  came  through  weepy  and  prissy  and  not  very  interesting.  It  was  the  father's  Father,  never  met,  never  heard,  who  made  Heaven  and  earth  and  Eve  and  Adam.  The  father  in  [REDACTED]  seemed  no  more  than  an  apostle  transmitting  a  paternal  message  from  the  Father  in  [REDACTED]-the  Father  of  us  all.  It  was,  how-  ever,  rare  for  a  remit,  tance  man  to  marry,  rarer  still  to  have  any  children;  how  could  he  become  a  father  when  he  had  never  stopped  being  a  son?  If  the  scattered  free-  masonry  of  offspring  the  remittance  man  left  behind,  all  adult  to  eld-  erly  now,  had  anything  in  common  it  must  have  been  their  degree  of  incompetence.  They  were  raised  to  behave  well  in  situations  that  might  never  occur,  trained  to  become  gen-  teel  poor  on  continents  where  even  the  concept  of  genteel  poverty  has  never  existed.  They  were  brought  up  with  plenty  of  books  and  music  and  pri-  vate  lessons,  a  nurse  sometimes,  in  a  household  where  certain  small  luxuries  were  deemed  essential-a  way  of  life  that,  in  North  America  at  least,  was  supposed  to  be  built  on  a  sunken  con-  crete  base  of  money;  otherwise  you  were  British  con  men,  a  breed  of  gyp-  sy,  and  a  bad  example.  Now,  your  remittance  man  was  apt  to  find  this  assumption  quite  funny.  The  one  place  he  would  never  take  seriously  was  the  place  he  was  in.  The  identification  of  prominent  local  fami-  lies  with  the  name  of  a  product,  a  commodity,  would  be  his  running  joke:  &quot;The  Allseeds  are  sugar,  theBilges  are  coal,  the  Cumquats  are  cough  med-  icine,  the  Doldrums  are  coffins,  the  Earwigs  are  saucepans,  the  Fustians  are  timber,  the  Grindstones  are  beer.&quot;  But  his  young,  once  they  came  up  against  it,  were  bound  to  observe  that  their  concrete  base  was  the  dandelion  fluff  of  a  banker's  order,  their  com-  modity  nothing  but  &quot;life  in  [REDACTED]  before  1914,&quot;  which  was  not  negoti-  able,  Also,  the  constant,  nagging  &quot;What  does  your  father  really  do?&quot;  could  amount  to  persecution.  &quot;Mr.  Bainwood  wants  to  know  what  you  do.&quot;  &quot;Damned  inquisitive  of  him.&quot;  &quot;Well,  what  do  you  do?&quot;  Silence.  Signs  of  annoyance.  Laugh- ter  sometimes.  Or  something  silly:  &quot;What  do  you  do  when  you  aren't  asking  questions?&quot;  No  remittance  man's  child  that  I  know  of  everattended  a  university,  though  care  was  taken  over  the  choice  of  schools.  There  they  would  be,  at  eighteen  and  nineteen,  the  boys  wear-  ing  raincoats  in  the  coldest  weather,  the  girls  with  their  hair  ribbons  and  hand-knits  and  their  innocently  irritat-  ing  English  voices,  well  read,  musical,  versed  in  history,  probably  because  they  had  been  taught  that  the  past  is  better  than  now,  and  somewhere  else  better  than  here.  They  must  have  been  the  only  English-Canadian  children  to  speak  French  casually,  as  a  matter  of  course.  Untidy,  unpunctual,  imperially  tactless,  they  drifted  into  work  that  had  to  be  &quot;interesting,&quot;  &quot;creative,&quot;  never  demeaning,  and  where-unless  they'd  had  the  advantage  of  a  rough  time  and  enough  nounce  to  draw  a  line  against  the  past-they  seldom  lasted,  There  was  one  in  every  public-relationsfirm,  one  to  a  radio  station,  two  to  a  pub-  lisher-forgetting  appointments,  losing  contracts,  jamming  typewriters,  sabo-  taging  telephones,  apologizing  in  ac-  cents  it  would  have  taken  elocution  lessons  to  change,  so  strong  had  been  paternal  pressure  against  the  hard  Ca-  nadian  &quot;r,&quot;  not  to  mention  other  vocables:  &quot;A-t-e  is  et,  darling,  not  ate.&quot;  &quot;I  can't  say  et.  Only  farmers  say  it" b"&quot;Perhaps  here,  but  you  won't  al-  ways  be  here.&quot;  Of  course  the  children  were  guilt-  drenched,  wondering  which  of  the  six  traditional  crimes  they  ought  to  pin  on  their  father,  what  his  secret  was,  what  his  past  included,  why  he  had  been  made  an  outcast.  The  answer  was  quite  often  &quot;Nothing,  no  reason,&quot;  but  it  meant  too  much  to  be  unravelled  and  knit  up.  The  sad-  dest  were  those  unwise  enough  to  look  into  the  families  who  had  caused  so  much  inherited  woe.  For  the  fam-  ily  was  often  as  not  smaller  potatoes  than  the  children  had  thought,  and  their  father's  romantic  crime  had  been  just  the  inability  to  sit  for  an  ex-  amination,  to  stay  ata  university,  to  handle  an  allowance,  to  gain  a  tochold  in  any  profession,  or  even  to  decide  what  he  wanted  to  do-an  ineptitude  so  maddening  to  live  with  that  the  Father  preferred  to  shell  out  forever  rather  than  watch  his  heir  fall  apart  before  his  eyes.  The  male  line,  then,  was  a  ghost  story.  A  mother's  vitality  would  be  needed  to  create  ecto-  plasm,  to  make  the  ghost  offspring  visible.  Unfortunately  the  exiles  were  apt  to  marry  absentminded  women  whose  skirts  are  covered  with  dog  hairs-the  drooping,  bewildered  Brit-  ish-Canadian  mouse,  who  counts  on  tea  leaves  to  tell  her  &quot;what  will  happen  when  Edward  goes.&quot;  None  of  us  is  ever  saved  entirely,  but  even  an  erratic  and  alarming  maternal  vi-tality  could  turn  out  to  be  better  than  none.  RANK  CAIRNs  was  childless,  which  I  thought  wise  of  him.  He  had  been  to  Ceylon,  gone  back  to  [REDACTED]  with  a  stiff  case  of  homesickness  disguised  as  malaria,  married,  and  been  shipped  smartly  out  again,  this  time  to  Montre-  al.  He  was  a  neat,  I  think  rather  a  small,  man,  with  a  straight  part  in  his  hair  and  a  quick,  brisk  walk.  He  no-  ticed  I  was  engaged.  I  did  not  reply.  I  told  him  I  had  been  in  New  York,  had  come  backabout  a  year  ago,  and  missed  &quot;different  things.&quot;  He  seemed  to  approve.  &quot;You  can't  make  a  move  here,&quot;  he  said  more  than  once.  I  was  not  sure  what  he  meant.  If  he  had  been  only  the  person  I  have  described  I'd  have  started  taking  an  earlier  train  to  be  rid  of  him.  But  Frank  Cairns  was  something  new,  unique  of  his  kind,  and  almost  as  good  as  a  refugee,  for  he  was  a  Socialist.  At  least  he  said  he  was.  He  said  he  had  never  voted  anywhere  but  that  if  he  ever  in  the  future  happened  to  be  in  [REDACTED]  when  there  was  an  election  he  would  certainly  vote  La-  bour.  His  Socialism  did  not  fit  any-  thing  else  about  him,  and  seemed  to  depend  for  its  life  on  the  memory  of  talks  he'd  once  had  with  a  friend  whom  he  described  as  brilliant,  philosophical,  farseeing,  and  just.  I  thought,  Like  Christ,  but  did  not  know  Frank  Cairns  well  enough  to  say  so.  The  nonbe-  liever  I  had  become  was  sometimes  dogged  by  the  child  whose  nightly  re-  quest  had  been  &quot;Gentle  Jesus,  meek  and  mild,  look  upon  a  little  child,&quot;  and  I  sometimes  got  into  ferocious  arguments  with  her,  as  well  as  with  other  people.  I  was  too  curious  about  Frank  Cairns  to  wish  to  quarrel  over  religion-at  any  rate  not  at  the  be-  ginning.  He  talked  about  his  friend  without  seeming  able  to  share  him.  He  never  mentioned  his  name.  I  had  to  fill  in  the  blank  part  of  this  conversation  without  help;  I  made  the  friend  a  high-ranking  civil  servant  in  Ceylon,  older  than  anyone-which  might  have  meant  forty-two-an  intellectual  rev-  olutionary  who  could  work  the  future  out  on  paper,  like  arithmetic.  Wherever  his  opinions  came  from,  Frank  Cairns  was  the  first  person  ever  to  talk  to  me  about  the  English  poor.  They  seemed  to  be  a  race,  different  in  kind  from  other  English.  He  showed  me  old  copies  of  Picture  Post  he  must  have  saved  up  from  the  Depression.  In  our  hot  summer  train,  where  ev-  eryone  was  starched  and  ironed  and  washed  and  fed,  we  considered  slum  doorways  and  the  faces  of  women  at  the  breaking  point.  They  looked  like  Lenin's  &quot;remnants  of  nations'&quot;  except  that  there  were  too  many  of  them  for  a  remnant.  I  thought  of  my  mother  and  her  long  preoccupation  with  the  fate  of  the  Scottsboro  Boys.  My  mother  had  read  and  mooned  and  fretted  about  the  Scottsboro  case,  while  I  tried  to  turn  her  attention  to  something  urgent,  " b"such  as  that  my  school  uniform  was  now  torn  in  three  places.  It  is  quite  possible  that  my  mother  had  seldom  seen  a  black  except  on  railway  trains.  (If  I  say  &quot;black&quot;  itis  only  because  it  is  expected.  It  was  a  rude  and  offensive  term  in  my  childhood  and  I  would  not  have  been  allowed  to  use  it.  &quot;Black&quot;  was  the  sort  of  thing  [REDACTED]  Africans  said.)  Had  Frank  Cairns  actually  seen  those  Picture  Post  faces,  I  wondered.  His  home,  his  [REDACTED],  was  every  other  remittance  man's-the  one  I  called  &quot;Christopher-Robin-land&quot;  and  had  sworn  to  keep  away  from.  He  hated  Churchill,  I  remember,  but  I  was  used  to  hearing  that.  No  man  who  remembered  the  Dardanelles  really  trusted  him.  Younger  men  (I  am  speak-  ing  of  the  handful  I  knew  who  had  any  opinion  at  all)  were  not  usually  irri-  tated  by  his  rhetoric  until  they  got  into  uniform.  Once  in  a  book  I  lent  him  he  found  a  scrap  of  paper  on  which  I  had  writ-  ten  the  title  ofa  story  I  was  writing,  &quot;The  Socialist  RM,&quot;  and  some  scrawls  in,  luckily,  aprivate  shorthand  of  mine.  A  perilous  moment:  &quot;remittance  man&quot;  was  a  term  of  abuse  all  over  the  Com-  monwealth  and  Empire.  &quot;What  is  it?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;Resident  Magistrate?&quot;  &quot;It  might  be  Royal  Marine.  Royal  Mail.  I  honestly  don't  remember.  I  can't  read  my  own  writing  sometimes.&quot;  The  last  sentence  was  true.  His  Socialism  was  unlike  a  Czech's  or  a  German's;  though  he  believed  that  one  should  fight  hard  for  social  change,  there  was  a  hopelessness  about  it,  an  al-  most  moral  belief  that  improving  their  material  circumstances  would  get  the  downtrodden  nowhere.  At  the  same  time,  he  thought  the  poor  were  happy,  that  they  had  some  strange  secret  of  happiness-the  way  people  often  think  all  Italians  are  happy  because  they  have  large  families.  I  wondered  if  he  really  believed  that  a  man  with  no  prospects  and  no  teeth  in  his  head  was  spiritually  better  off  than  Frank  Cairns  and  why,  in  that  case,  Frank  Cairns  did  not  let  him  alone  with  his  underfed  children  and  his  native  good  nature.  This  was  a  British  left-wing  paradox  I  was  often  to  encounter  later  on.  What  it  seemed  to  amount  to  was  leaving  people  more  or  less  as  they  were,  though  he  did  speak  about  basic  principles  and  the  spread  of  education.  It  sounded  dull.  I  was  527573736961n-minded;  I  read527573736961n  books,  listened  to  527573736961n  music.  After  [REDACTED]  came  [REDACTED]  and  Central  Europe-that  was  where  the  real  mys-  tery  and  political  excitement  lay.  His  Webbs  and  his  Fabians  were  plodding and  grey.  I  saw  the  men  with  thick  mustaches,  wearing  heavy  boots,  shar-  ing  lumpy  meals  with  moral  women.  In  the  books  he  brought  me  I  contin-  ued  to  find  his  absent  friend.  He  pro-  duced  Housman  and  Hardy  (I  could  not  read  either),  Siegfried  Sassoon  and  Edmund  Blunden,  H.  G.  Wells  and  Bernard  Shaw.  The  friend  was  prob-  ably  a  Scot-Frank  Cairns  admired  them.  The  Scots  of  [REDACTED],  to  me,  stood  for  all  that  was  narrow,  grasp-  ing,  ata  standstill.  How  I  distrusted  those  granite  bankers  who  thought  it  was  sinful  to  smoke!  I  was  wrong,  he  told  me.  The  true  Scots  were  full  of  poetry  and  political  passion.  I  said,  &quot;Are  you  sure?&quot;  and  turned  his  friend  into  a  native  of  Aberdeen  and  a  gradu-  ate  from  Edinburgh.  I  also  began  a  new  notebook:  &quot;Scottish  Labour  Party.  Keir  Hardie.  Others.&quot;  This  was  better  than  the  Webbs  but  still  not  as  good  as  Rosa  Luxemburg.  It  was  Frank  Cairns  who  said  to  me  &quot;Life  has  no  point,&quot;  without  em-  phasis,  in  response  to  some  ignorant  assumption  of  mine.  This  was  his  true  voice.  I  recall  the  sidelong  glance,  the  lizard's  eye  that  some  men  develop  as  they  grow  old  or  when  they  have  too  much  to  hide.  I  was  no  good  with  ages.  I  cannot  place  him  even  today.  Early  thirties,  probably.  What  else  did  he  tell  me?  That  &quot;Scotch&quot;  was  the  proper  term  and  &quot;Scots&quot;  anexample  of  a  genteelism  overtaking  the  original.  That  unless  the  English  surmounted  their  class  obsessions  with  speech  and  accent  [REDACTED]  would  not  survive  in  the  world  after  the  war.  His  remedy  (or  his  friend's)  was  having  everyone  go  to  the  same  schools.  He  surprised  me  even  more  by  saying,  &quot;I  would  never  live  in  [REDACTED],  not  as  itis  now.&quot;  &quot;Where,  then?&quot;  &quot;Nowhere.  I  don't  know.&quot;  &quot;What  about  [REDACTED]?  They  all  go  to  the  same  schools.&quot;  &quot;Good  [REDACTED];  said  Frank  Cairns.  He  was  inhabited  by  a  familiar  who  spoke  through  him,  provided  him  with  jolting  outbursts  but  not  a  whole  thought.  Perhaps  that  silent  coming  and  going  was  the  way  people  stayed  in  each  other's  lives  when  they  were  apart.  What  Frank  Cairns  was  to  me  was  a  curio  cabinet.  I  took  everything  out  of  the  cabinet,  piece  by  piece,  ex-  amined  the  objects,  set  them  down.  Such  situations,  riddled  with  ambiguity,  I  would  blunder  about  with  for  a  long  time  until  I  learned  to  be  careful.  HE  husband  ofthe  woman  from  whom  I  rented  my  summer  room  played  golf  every  weekend.  On  one  of  those  August  nights  when  no  one  can  sleep  and  the  sky  is  nearly  bright  enough  to  read  by,  I  took  to  the  back  yard  and  found  him  trying  to  cool  off  with  aglass  of  beer.  He  remembered  he  had  offered  to  give  me  golf  lessons.  I  did  not  wish  to  learn,  but  did  not  say  so.  His  wife  spoke  up  from  a  deck  chair:  &quot;You've  never  offered  to  teach  me,  I  notice.&quot;  She  then  compounded  the  error  by  telling  me  everyone  was  talking  about  me  and  the  married  man  on  the  train.  The  next  day  I  took  the  Kiithe  Kollwitz  prints  down  from  the  walls  of  my  room  and  moved  back  to  [REDACTED]  without  an  explanation.  Frank  Cairns  and  I  met  once  more  that  summer  to  return  some  books.  That  was  all.  When  he  called  me  at  my  office  late  in  November,  I  said,  &quot;Who?&quot;  He  came  into  thecoffee  shop  at  Windsor  Station,  where  I  was  waiting.  He  was  in  uniform,.I  had  not  noticed  he  was  good-looking  before.  It  was  not  something  I  noticed  in  men,  He  was  a  first  lieutenant.  I  disapproved:  " b"&quot;Couldn't  they  make  you  a  private?&quot;  &quot;Too  old,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;As  itis  I  am  tooold  for  my  rank.&quot;  I  thought  he  just  meant  he  might  be  promoted  fast-  er  because  of  that.  &quot;You  don't  look  old.&quot;  I  at  once  re-  gretted  this  personal  remark,  the  first  he  had  heard  from  me.  Indeed,  he  had  shed  most  of  his  adult  life.  He  must  have  seemed  as  young  as  this  when  he  started  out  to  Ceylon.  The  uniform  was  his  visa  to  [REDACTED];  no  one  could  shut  him  away  now.  His  face  was  radiant,  open:  he  was  halfway  there.  This  glimpse  of  a  purpose  astonished  me;  why  should  a  uniform  make  the  change  he'd  been  unable  to  make  alone?  He  was  not  the  first  soldier  I  saw  transfigured  but  he  was  the  first  to  affect  me.  He  kept  smiling  and  staring  at  me.  I  hoped  he  was  not  going  to  make  a  personal  remark  in  exchange  for  mine.  He  said,  &quot;That  tam  makes  you  look,  I  don't  know,  Canadian.  I've  always  thought  of  you  as  English.  I  still  think  [REDACTED]  is  where  you  might  be  hap-  &quot;I'm  happy  here.  You  said  you'd  never  live  there.&quot;  &quot;It  would  be  a  good  place  for  you,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Well,  well,  we  shall  see.&quot;  He  would  see  nothing.  My  evolu-  tion  was  like  freaky  weather  then:  a  few  months,  a  few  weeks  even,  were  the  equivalent  of  long  second  thoughts  later  on.  I  was  in  a  completely  other  climate.  I  no  longer  missed  New  York  and  &quot;different  things.&quot;  I  had  become  patriotic.  Canadian  patriotism  is  always  anti-American  in  part,  and  feeds  upon  anecdotes.  American  tourists  were  be-  ginning  to  arrive  in  [REDACTED]  looking  for  anything  expensive  or  hard  to  find  in  the  United  [REDACTED];  when  they  could  not  buy  rationed  food  such  as  meat  and  butter,  or  unrationed  things  such  as  nylon  stockings  (because  they  did  not  exist),  they  complained  of  ingratitude.  This  was  because  [REDACTED]  was  thought  to  be  a  recipient  of  American  charity  andon  the  other  end  of  Lend-Lease.  Canadians  were,  and  are,  enormously  touchy.  Great  umbrage  had  been  taken  over  a  story  that  was  going  around  in  the  [REDACTED]  about  Americans  who  had  been  soaked  for  black-market  butter  in  [REDACTED];  when  they  got  back  across  the  border  they  opened  the  package  and  found  the  butter  stamped  &quot;Gift  of  the  American  People.&quot;  This  fable  persisted  throughout  the  war  and  turned  up  in  print.  An  American  friend  saw  it  in,  I  think,  Westbrook  Pegler's  column  and  wrote  asking  me  if  it  was  true.  I  composed  a  letter  I  meant  to  send  to  the  New  York  Times,  demolishing  the  butter  story.  I  kept  rewriting  and  re-  shaping  it,  trying  to  achieve  a  balance  between  crippling  irony  and  a  calm  review  of  events.  I  never  posted  it,  fi-  nally,  because  my  grandmother  ap-  peared  to  me  in  a  dream  and  said  that  only  fools  wrote  to  newspapers.  Our  coffee  was  tepid,  the  saucers  slopped.  He  complained,  and  the  wait-  ress  asked  if  we  knew  there  was  a  war  on.  &quot;Christ,  what  a  bloody  awful  coun-  try  this  is,&quot;  he  said.  I  wanted  tosay,  Then  why  are  you  with  a  Canadian  regiment?  I  provided  my  own  answer:  They  pay  more  than  the  Brits,  We  were  actually  quarrelling  in  my  head,  and  on  such  a  mean  level.  I  began  to  tear  up  a  paper  napkin  and  to  cry.  &quot;I  have  missed  you,&quot;  he  remarked,  but  quite  happily;  you  could  tell  the  need  for  missing  was  over.  I  had  scarcely  thought  of  him  at  all.  I  kept  taking  more  and  more  napkins  out  of  the  container  on  the  table  and  blotting  my  face  and  tearing  the  paper  up.  He  must  be  the  only  man  I  ever  cried  about  in  a  public  place.  I  hardly  knew  him.  He  was  not  embarrassed,  as  a  Canadian  would  have  been,  but  looked  all  the  happier.  The  glances  we  got  from  other  tables  were  full  of  under-  standing.  Everything  gave  the  wrong  impression-his  uniform,  my  engage-  ment  ring,  my  tears.  I  told  him  I  was  going  to  be  married.  &quot;Nonsense,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'm  serious.&quot;  &quot;You  seem  awfully  young.&quot;  &quot;I'll  soon  be  twenty.&quot;  A  slip.  I  had  told  him  I  was  older.  It  amazed  me  to  remember  how  young  I  had  been  only  the  summer  before.  &quot;But  I  won't  actually  be  a  married  woman,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;because  I  hate  everything  about  them.  Another  thing  I  won't  be  and  that's  the  sensitive  housewife-the  one  who  listens  to  Brahms  while  she  does  the  ironing  and  reads  all  the  new  books  still  in  their  jackets.&quot;  &quot;No,  don't  be  a  sensitive  house-  wife,&quot;  he  said.  He  gave  me  &quot;The  Wallet  of  Kai  " b"Lung&quot;  and  &quot;Kai  Lung's  Golden  Hours,&quot;  which  had  been  in  Ceylon  with  him  and  had  survived.  ID  we  write  to  each  other?  That's  what  I  can't  remember.  I  was  careless  then;  I  kept  moving  on.  Also  I  really  did,  that  time,  get  married.  My  husband  was  posted  three  days  afterward  to  an  American  base  in  the  Aleutian  Islands-I  have  for-  gotten  why.  Eight  months  later  he  re-  turned  for  a  brief  embarkation  leave  and  then  went  overseas.  I  had  dread-  ed  coming  in  to  my  office  after  my  wedding  for  fear  the  men  I  worked  with  would  tease  me.  But  the  mix-  ture  of  war  and  separation  recalled  old  stories  of  their  own  experiences,  in  the  First  World  War.  Also  I  had  been  transformed  into  someone  with  a  French  surname,  which  gave  them  pause.  &quot;Does  he  -  uh  -  speak  any  French?&quot;  &quot;Not  a  word.  He's  from  the  West.&quot;  Ah.  &quot;But  he  ought  to.  His  father  is  French.&quot;  Oh.  I  had  disappeared  for  no  more  than  four  days,  but  I  was  Mrs.  Something  now,  not  young  Linnet.  They  spoke  about  me  as  &quot;she,&quot;  and  not  &quot;Linnet&quot;  or  &quot;the  kid.&quot;  I  wondered  what  they  saw  when  they  looked  at  me.  In  every  head  bent  over  a  desk  or  a  drawing  board  there  was  an  opinion  about  women;  expressed,  it  sounded  either  prurient  or  coarse,  but  I  still  cannot  believe  that  is  all  there  was  to  it.  I  know  I  shocked  them  profoundly  once  by  saying  that  a  wartime  ditty  popular  with  the  troops,  &quot;Rock  me  to  sleep,  Sergeant-Major,  tuck  me  in  my  little  bed,&quot;  was  innocently  homosexual.  That  I  could  have  such  a  turn  of  thought,  that  I  could  use  such  an  expression,  that  I  even  knew  it  existed  seemed  scandalous  to  them.  &quot;You  read  too  damned  much,&quot;  I  was  told.  Oddly  enough,  they  had  never  minded  my  hearing  any  ofthe  several  versions  of  the  song,  some  of  which  were  unspeak-  able;  all  they  objected  to  was  my  un-  feminine  remark.  When  I  married  they  gave  me  a  suitcase,  and  when  I  left  for  good  they  bought  me  a  Vic-  tory  Bond.  I  had  scrupulously  noted  every  detail  ofthe  office,  and  the  build-  ing  it  was  in,  yet  only  a  few  months  later  I  would  walk  by  it  without  re-  membering  I  had  ever  been  inside,  and  it  occurs  to  me  only  now  that  I  never  saw  any  of  them  again.  I  was  still  a  minor,  but  emancipated  by  marriage.  I  did  not  need  to  ask  parental  consent  for  anything  or  worry  about  being  brought  down  on  the  wing.  I  realized  how  anxious  I  had  been  once  the  need  for  that  particular  anxiety  was  over.  A  friend  in  New  York  married  to  a  psychiatrist  had  sent  me  a  letter  saying  I  had  her  per-  mission  to  marry.  She  did  not  describe  herself  as  a  relative  or  state  anything  untrue-she  just  addressed  herself  to  whom  it  may  concern,  said  that  as  far  as  she  was  concerned  I  could  get  married,  and  signed.  She  did  not  tell  her  husband,  in  case  he  triedto  put  things  right  out  of  principle,  and  I  mentioned  to  no  one  that  the  letter  was  legal  taradiddle  and  carried  about  as  much  weight  as  a  library  card.  I  mention  this  to  show  what  essential  paperwork  sometimes  amounts  to.  My  hus-  band,  aged  twenty-  four,  had  become  my  legal  guardian  under  [REDACTED]'s  preposterous  Napoleonic  law,  but  he  never  knew  that.  When  he  went  over-  seas  he  asked  me  not  to  join  any  political  party,  which  I  hadn't  thought  of  doing,  and  not  to  enlist  in  the  Army  or  the  Air  Force.  The  sec-  ond  he  vanished  I  tried  to  join  the  Wrens,  which  had  not  been  on  the  list  only  because  it  slipped  his  mind.  Joining  one  of  the  services  had  never  been  among  my  plans  and  proj-  ects-it  was  he  who  accidentally  put  the  idea  in  my  head.  I  now  decided  I  would  turn  up  overseas,  having  made  it  there  on  my  own,  but  I  got  no  further  than  the  enlistment  require-  ments,  which  included  &quot;...of  the  white  race  only.&quot;  This  barrier  turned  out  to  be  true  of  nearly  all  the  navies  of  the  Commonwealth  countries.  I  sup-  posed  everyone  must  have  wanted  it  that  way,  for  I  neverheard  it  ques-  tioned,  I  was  only  beginning  to  hear  the  first  rumblings  of  hypocrisy  on  our  side-the  right  side;  the  wrong  side  seemed  to  be  guilty  of  every  sin  human-  ly  possible  except  simulation  of  virtue.  I  put  the  blame  for  the  racial  barrier  on  Churchill,  who  certainly  and  had  known  since  the  First  World  War;  I  believed  that  Roosevelt,  Stalin,  Chiang  Kai-shek,  and  de  Gaulle  did  not  know,and  that  should  it  ever  come  to  their  attention  they  would  be  as  shocked  as  I  was.  Instead  of  enlisting  I  passed  the  St.  John  Ambulance  first-aid  certificate,  which  made  me  a  useful  person  in  case  of  total  war,  The  Killed-Wounded-  Missing  columns  of  the  afternoon  paper  were  now  my  daily  reading.  It  became  a  habit  so  steadfast  that  I  would  auto-  matically  look  for  victims  even  after  the  war  ended.  The  summer  of  the  Scottish  Labour  Party,  Keir  Hardie,  " b"and  Others  fell  behind,  as  well  as  a  younger,  discarded  Linnet.  I  lighted  ferocious  autos-da-f\xc3\xa9.  Nothing  could  live  except  present  time.  In  the  ever-  new  present  I  read  one  day  that  Ma-  jor  Francis  Cairns  had  died  of  wounds  in  4974616c79,  Who  remembers  now  the  shock  ofthe  known  name?  It  was  like  a  flat  white  light.  One  felt  apart  from  everyone,  isolated.  The  field  of  vision  drew  in.  Then,  before  one  could  lose  consciousness,  vision  expanded,  light  and  shadow  moved,  voices  pierced  through.  One's  heart,  which  had  stopped,  beat  hard  enough  to  make  a  room  shudder.  All  this  would  occupy  about  asecond.  The  next  second  was  inhabited  by  disbelief.  I  sawhim  in  uniform,  so  happy,  halfway  there,  and  myself  making  a  spectacle  of  us,  tear-  ing  a  paper  napkin.  I  was  happy  for  him  that  he  would  never  need  to  re-  turn  to  the  commuting  train  and  the  loneliness  and  be  forced  to  relive  his  own  past.  I  wanted  to  writea  casual  letter  saying  so.  One's  impulse  was  al-  ways  to  write  to  the  dead.  Nobody  knew  I  knew  him,  and  in  [REDACTED]  it  was  not  done  to  speak  of  the  missing.  I  forgot  him.  He  went  under.  I  was  doing  a  new  sort  of  work  and  sharing  a  house  with  another  girl  whose  hus-  band  was  also  overseas.  [REDACTED]  had  become  a  completely  other  city.  I  was  no  longer  attracted  to  refugees.  They  were  going  through  a  process  called  &quot;integrating.&quot;  Some  changed  their  names.  Others  applied  for  citizenship.  A  refugee  eating  cornflakes  was  of  no  further  interest.  The  house  I  now  lived  in  contained  a  fireplace,  in  which  I  burned  all  my  stories  about  Czech  and  German  anti-Fascists.  In  the  picnic  hamper  I  used  for  storing  journals  and  notebooks  I  found  a  manila  envelope  marked  &quot;Lakeshore.&quot;  It  contained  sev-  eral  versions  of  &quot;The  Socialist  RM&quot;  and  a  few  other  things  that  sounded  as  if  they  were  translated  from  the  527573736961n  by  Constance  Garnett.  I  also  found  a  brief  novel  I  had  no  memory  of  having  written,  about  a  Scot  from  Aberdeen,  a  left-wing  civil  servant  in  Ceylon-a  man  from  somewhere,  living  elsewhere,  confident  that  another  world  was  entirely  possible,  since  he  had  got  it  all  down.  It  had  shape,  density,  voice,  but  I  destroyed  it  too.  I  never  felt  guilt  about  for-  getting  the  dead  or  the  living,  but  I  minded  about  that  one  manuscript  for  a  time.  All  this  business  of  putting  life  through  a  sieve  and  then  discarding  it  was  another  variety  of  exile;  I  knew  that  even  then,  but  it  seemed  quite  right  and  perfectly  natural.  \n"