 b"I  THINK  of  them  at  night.  I  see  them  through  the  heavy-lidded  lucidity  of  the  late  hour:  the  pres-  ent  is  asleep,  and  through  the  opened  dams  the  past  breaks  loose,  rushes  in,  carries  downstream  my  bearded  an-  cestors,  the  white  wings  of  their  prayer  shawls  spread  wide,  their  women  with  kerchiefs  of  silk  tied  over  their  wed-  ding  wigs,  bosoms  held  tightly  by  rows  of  mother-of-pearl  buttons  blinking  into  the  night.  My  ancestors  come  down  reclining  in  the  river  of  darkness,  tree  trunks  floating  in  water,  and,  like  a  salmon  at  mating  time  driven  by  madness,  jumping  waterfalls  and  crush-  ing  against  stones,  I  leap  through  the  air  that  burns  my  blood  and  fall  numb-  ly  back.  I  struggle  to  reascend  time,  to  plunge  into  the  source  of  darkness  and  know.  My  night  visitors  do  not  talk;  how  should  I  ever  learn  about  them?  My  grandmother-the  only  one  of  my  an-  cestors  I  remember-was  already  half  in  the  haze  of  old  age  when  I  knew  her,  like  a  mountain  peak  wrapped  in  perennial  fog,  present  but  not  quite  vis-  ible.  I  know  only  that,  like  my  mother  and  myself,  my  grandmoth-  er  was  born  in  January-  a  curious  coincidence  that  for  a  long  time  led  me  to  believe  that  all  of  us,  all  the  women  in  my  maternal  lineage,  were  born  in  the  same  month.  It  could  be  true.  It  made  us  winter  people;  we  were  intimate  with  the  snows  and  the  blizzards.  Three  genera-  tions  later,  I  still  carry  in  my  bones  the  thrill  of  East  European  winters,  with  their  crackling,  high-rising  waves  of  frost  that  scorched  life  and  blinded  windows  with  ice  flowers.  I  hear  the  hooves  of  the  sleigh  horses  crossing  frozen  lakes,  send-  ing  blue  sparks  across  the  arctic  desert.  I  still  warm  my  hands  by  rubbing  them  one  against  the  other  like  the  women  in  my  great-  grandmother's  village.  On  blizzard  days,  a  whimper-  ing  wolf  wakes  up  inside  me  (a  gentle  person  in  any  other  season,  as  all  my  friends  could  testify)  and  I  hear  him  scratching  at  the  door,  wanting  out,out,  to  roam  the  night  of  the  Mol-  davian  countryside  again.  From  my  great-grandmother,  the  only  thing  that  reached  me  was  a  wa-  ter  bucket,  I  saw  it  in  my  old  aunt's  backyard  the  summer  I  was  nine;  at  that  time  Idid  not  understand  what  I  was  seeing.  Only  years  later  did  I  learn  that  theold  bucket  came  from  my  great-grandmother's  household  in  the  village  of  Ispas.  I  came  upon  it  while  I  was  chasing  my  ball.  A  curi-  ous,  large,  rusty,  and  warped  bucket  with  one  of  the  wooden  handles  miss-  ing,  the  other  carvedwith  leaves  and  vines  like  the  armrest  of  an  old  pew.  It  stood  alone  in  a  patch  of  weeds,  with  a  pair  of  hot  and  itchy  sparrows  on  its  rim,yet  it  did  not  have  the  mel-  ancholy  air  of  old,  discarded  household  tools-that  grin  of  rust,  the  solitude  of  verdigris.  'There  was  a  splendid  wild  loneliness  about  it,  and  it  intimidated  me.  The  old  bucket  was  slumping  to  its  death  with  the  dignity  of  magnifi-  cent  ruins.  The  rains  had  filled  it  to  the  brim,  and  when  I  moved  closer  the  surface  of  the  water  glinted,  called  me  like  a  huge  green  eye  winking  mysteriously  under  eyelashes  of  mint  and  chicory.  I  parted  the  weeds  singed  by  summer  and  leaned  over  the  bucket.  What  I  saw  then  was  someone  else's  face,  with  a  dark  mouth  and  shadow  in  the  eye  sockets,  someone  like  myself,  but  older  and  sterner,  staring  at  me-a  face  daguerreotyped  by  the  pearly  haze  of  the  light.  I  was  and  I  was  not  my-  self-the  water  hesitated  as  if  the  bucket  were  too  old  now  to  reflect  clearly  what  it  saw;  as  if  it  mingled  and  confused  the  new  face  with  the  old  memories  stored  at  its  bottom,  the  many  faces  of  another  woman  who  had  watched  herself  in  its  water.  A  mesmerizing  green  madness  trapped  me  there,  someone  lured  me  down,  the  smell  of  the  wild  weeds  and  the  crickets  song  swelled,  engulfed  the  world,  and  the  garden  started  to  turn  until,  head  downward,  I  was  going  to  plunge  into  the  upside-down  green  of  that  world  and  join  that  beckoning  face-but  a  door  banged,  someone  called  me  from  the  front  steps,  the  garden  stood  still,  and  I  tore  myself  "