 b"THESE  letters  were  recovered  in  good  condition  from  the  vault  of  the  sunken  Samantha,  an  iron-  hulled  sailing  ship  of  one  thousand  tons,  built  in  [REDACTED]  in  1879  and  wrecked  during  the  First  World  War  in  the  Persian  [REDACTED]  off  Basra.  20  August,  1909,  20\xc2\xb0  14  18&quot;  S,  43\xc2\xb0  51&quot;  57&quot;  E.  Off  Madagascar  Dear  Sir:  Many  years  have  passed  since  I  joined  the  Green  Star  Line.  You  may  note  in  your  records  and  logs,  if  not,  indeed,  by  memory,  the  complete  ab-  sence  of  disciplinary  action  against  me.  During  my  command,  the  Samantha  has  been  a  trim  ship  on  time.  Though  my  subordinates  sometimes  complain,  they  are  grateful,  no  doubt,  for  my  firm  rule  and  tidiness.  It  saves  the  ship  in  storms,  keeps  them  healthy,  and  provides  good  training-even  though  they  will  be  masters  of  steamships.  No  other  vessel  of  this  line  has  been  as  punctual  or  well  run.  Even  today  we  are  a  week  ahead  and  our  Madagascar  wood  will  reach  Alexandria  early.  Bound  for  [REDACTED],  the  crew  are  hap-  py,  and  though  we  sail  the  Mozam-  bique  Channel  they  act  as  if  we  had  just  caught  sight  of  Margate.  There  are  no  problems  on  this  ship.  But  I  must  in  conscience  report  an  irregular  incident  for  which  I  am  ready  to  take  full  blame.  Half  a  day  out  of  Androka,  we  came  upon  a  sea  so  blue  and  casual  that  its  waters  seemed  fit  to  drink.  Though  the  windwas  slight  and  wemade  poor  time,  we  were  elated  by  perfect  climate  and  painter's  colors,  for  off  the  star-  board  side  Madagascar  rose  as  green  and  tranquil  as  a  well-watered  palm,  its  mountains  engraved  by  thrashing  freshwater  streams  which  beat  down  to  the  coast.  A  sweet  upwelling  breeze  blew  steadily  from  shore  and  confound-  ed  our  square  sails.  Twenty  minutes  after  noon,  the  lookout  sighted  a  tor-  nado  on  land.  In  the  ship's  glass  I  saw  it,  horrifying  and  enormous.  Though  at  a  great  distance,  its  column  appeared  as  thick  as  a  massive  tree  on  an  islet  in  an  atoll,  and  stretched  at  least  70  de-  grees  upward  from  the  horizon.  I  have  seen  these  pipes  of  windy  fleece  before.  If  there  is  sea  nearby,  they  rush  to  it.  So  did  this.  When  it  became  not  red  and  black  from  soil  and  debris  but  silver  and  green  from  the  water  it  drew,  I  began  to  tighten  ship.  Were  the  typhoon  to  have  struck  us  directly,  no  preparation  would  have  saved  us.  But  what  a  shame  to  be  swamped  by  high  waves,  or  to  be  dis-  masted  by  beaten  sea  and  wind.  Hatches  were  battened  as  if  for  storm,  minor  sails  furled,  and  the  mainsail  driven  down  half.  It  moved  back  and  forth  over  the  sea  in  illegible  patterning,  as  if  tacking  to  changing  winds.  To  our  dismay,  the  distance  narrowed.  We  were  afraid,  though  every  man  on  deck  wanted  to  see  it,  to  feel  it,  perhaps  to  ride  its  thick  swirling  waters  a  hundred  times  higher  than  our  mast-higher  than  the  peaks  inland.  I  confess  that  I  have  wished  to  be  completely  taken  up  by  such  a  thing,  to  be  lifted  into  the  clouds,  arms  and  legs  pinned  in  the  stream.  'The  attraction  is  much  like  that  of  phosphorescent  seas,  when  glowing  light  and  smooth  swell  are  dangerously  magnetic  even  for  hard-  ened  masters  of  good  ships.  I  have  wanted  to  surrender  to  plum-colored  seas,  to  know  what  one  might  find   there  naked  and  alone.  But  I  have  not,  and  will  not.  Finally,  we  began  to  run  rough  wa-  ter.  The  column  was  so  high  that  we  bent  our  heads  to  see  its  height,  and  the  sound  was  greater  than  any  engine,  causing  masts  and  spars  to  resonate  like  cords.  Waves  broke  over  the  prow.  Wind  pushed  us  on,  and  the  curl  of  the  sea  rushed  to  fill  the  depression  of  the  waters.  No  more  than  half  a  mile  off  the  starboard  bow,  the  column  veered  to  the  west,  crossing  our  path  to  head  for  Africa  as  rapidly  as  an  express.  Within  minutes,  we  could  not  even  see  it.  As  it  crossed  our  bows,  I  veered  in  the  direction  from  which  it  had  come.  It  seemed  to  communicate  a  decisive-  nessof  course,  and  here  I  took  oppor-  tunity  to  evade.  In  doing  so  we  came  close  to  land.  This  was  dangerous  not  only  for  the  presence  of  reefs  and  shoals  but  because  of  thescattered " b'debris.  Trees  as  tall  as  masts  and  much  thicker,  roots  sucked  clean,lay  in  puz-  zlement  upon  the  surface.  Brush  and  vines  were  everywhere.  The  water  was  reddish  brown  from  earth  which  had  fallen  from  the  cone.  We  were  meticulously  careful  in  piloting  through  this  fresh  salad,  as  a  good  ram  against  a  solid  limb  would  have  been  the  end.  Our  cargo  is  hardwoods,  and  would  have  sunk  us  like  granite.I  myself  straddled  the  sprit  stays,  pushing  aside  small  logs  with  a  boathook  and  calling  out  trim  to  the  wheel.  Nearly  clear,  we  came  upon  a  clump  of  tangled  vegetation.  I  could  not  be-  lieve  my  eyes,  for  floating  upon  it  was  a  large  monkey,  bolt  upright  and  digni-  fied.  I  sighted  him  first,  though  the  lookout  called  soon  after.  On  impulse,  I  set  trim  for  the  wavy  mat  and,  as  we  smashed  into  it,  offered  the  monkey  an  end  of  the  boathook.  When  he  seized  it  I  was  almost  pulled  in,  for  his  weight  is  nearly  equal  to  mine.  I  ob-served  that  he  had  large  teeth,  which  appeared  both  white  and  sharp.  He  came  close,  and  then  took  to  the  lines  until  he  sat  high  on  the  topgallant.  As  he  passed,  his  foot  cuffed  my  shoulder  and  I  could  smell  him.  My  ship  is  a  clean  ship.  I  regretted  immediately  my  gesture  with  the  hook.  We  do  not  need  the  mysterious  defe-  cations  of  such  a  creature,  or  the  threat  of  him  in  the  rigging  at  night.  But  we  could  not  capture  him  to  throw  him  back  into  the  sea  and,  even  had  we  col-  lared  him,  might  not  have  been  able  to  get  him  overboard  without  danger  to  ourselves.  We  are  now  many  miles  off  the  coast.  It  is  dark,  and  he  sits  high  off  the  deck.  The  night  watch  is  afraid  and  requests  thatI  fell  him  with  my  rifle.  They  have  seen  his  sharp  teeth,  which  he  displays  with  much  screaming  and  gesticulating  when  they  near  him  in  the  rigging.  I  think  he  is  merely  afraid,  and  I  cannot  bring  my-  self  to  shoot  him.  I  realize  that  no  animals  are  allowed  on  board  and  have  often  had  to  enforce  this  rule  when  coming  upon  a  parrot  or  cat  hidden  belowdecks  where  some  captains  do  not  go.  But  this  creature  we  have  to-  day  removed  from  the  sea  is  like  a  man,  and  he  has  ridden  the  typhoon.  Perhaps  we  will  pass  a  headland  and  throw  him  overboard  on  a  log.  He  must  eventually  descend  for  want  of  food.  Then  we  will  have  our  way.  I  will  report  further  when  the  matter  is  resolved,  and  assure  you  thatI  regret  this  breach  of  regulations.  Yours  &amp;  etc.,  Samson  Low  Master,  S/V  SamantHA  23  August,  1909,  10\xc2\xb0  43&quot;  3&quot;  S,  49\xc2\xb0  5&quot;  27&quot;  E.  South  of  the  Seychelles  Dear  Sir:  We  have  passed  the  Channel  and  are  heading  north-northeast,  hoping  to  ride  the  summer  monsoon.  It  is  shamefully  hot,  though  the  breeze  is  less  humid  than  usual.  Today  two  men  dropped  from  the  heat  but  they  re-  sumed  work  by  evening.  Because  we  are  on  a  homeward  tack,  morale  is  at  its  best,  or  rather  would  be  were  it  not  for  that  damned  ape  in  the  rigging.  He  hasnot  come  down,  and  we  have  left  behind  his  island  and  its  last  headland.  He  will  have  to  have  descended  by  the  time  we  breach  passage  between  Ras  Asir  and  Jazirat  Abd  al-Kuri.  The  mate  has  suggested  that  there  we  throw  him  into  the  sea  on  a  raft,  which  the  carpenter  has  already  set  about  building.  He  has  embarked  upon  this  with  my  permission,  since  there  is  little  else  for  him  to  do.  It  has  been  almost  an  overly  serene  voyage  and  the  typhoon  caused  nodamage.  The  raft  he  designed  is  very  clever  and  has  become  a  popular  subject  of  discussion.  It  is  about  six  feet  by  three  feet,  constructed  of  spare  pine  dunnage  we  were  about  to  cast  away  when  the  typhoon  was  sighted.  On  each  side  is  an  outrigger  for  stability  in  the  swell.  In  the  center  is  a  box,  in  which  is  a  seat.  Flanking  this  box  are  several  smaller  ones  for  fruit,  biscuit,  and  a  bucket  of  fresh  water,  in  case  the  creature  should  drift  a  long  time  on  the  sea.  This  probably  will  not  be  so;  the  currents  off  Ras  Asir  drive  for  the  beach,  and  we  have  noted  that  dun-  nage  is  quickly  thrown  upon  the  strand.  Nevertheless,  the  crew  have  added  their  own  touch-a  standard  distress  flag  flying  from  a  ten-foot  switch.  They  do  not  know,  but  I  will  order  it  replaced  bya  banner  of  another  color,  so  that  a  hapless  ship  will  not  endanger  ' b"itself  to  rescue  a  speechless  monkey.  The  crew  have  divided  into  two  fac-  tions-those  who  wish  to  have  the  monkey  shot,  and  those  who  would  wait  for  him  to  descend  and  thenput  him  in  his  boat.  I  am  with  the  latter,  since  I  would  be  the  huntsman,  and  have  already  mentioned  my  lack  of  enthusiasm  for  this.  A  delegation  of  the  first  faction  protested,  They  claimed  that  the  second  faction  comprised  those  who  stayed  on  deck,  that  the  creature  endangered  balance  in  the  rigging,  and  that  he  produced  an  uncanny  effect  in  his  screeching  and  bellicose  silhou-  ettes,  which  from  below  are  humor-  ous  but  which  at  close  range,  they  said,  are  disconcerting  and  terrifying.  Since  I  had  not  seen  him  for  longer  than  a  moment  and  wanted  to  verify  their  complaint,  I  went  up.  Though  sixty  years  of  age,  I  did  not  usethe  bosun's  chair,  and  detest  those  masters  who  do.  It  is  pharaonic,  and  smacks  of  days  in  my  father's  youth  when  he  saw  with  his  own  eyes  gentlemen  in  sedan  chairs  carried  about  the  city.  The  sight  of  twenty  men  labor-  ing  to  hoist  a  ship's  rotund  captain  is  simply  Egyptian,  and  I  will  not  have  it.  Sev-  enty  feet  off  the  deck,  a  giddy  height  to  which  I  have  not  as-  cended  in  years,  I  came  even  with  the  ape.  The  ship  was  passing  a  boisterous  sea  and  had  at  least  a  twenty-degree  roll,  which  flung  the  two  of  us  from  side  to  side  like  pen-  dula.  I  am  not  a  naturalist,  nor  have  we  on  board  a  book  of  zoology,  sothe  most  I  can  do  is  to  describe  him.  He  is  al-  most  my  height  (nearly  five  feet  ten  inches)  and  appears  to  be  sturdily  built.  Feet  and  hands  are  human  in  appear-  ance  except  that  they  have  a  bulbous,  skew,  arthritic  look  common  to  monkeys.  He  is  muscular  and  covered.  with  fine  reddish-brown  hair.  One  can  see  the  whiteness  of  his  tendons  when  he  stretches  an  arm  or  leg.  I  have  mentioned  the  sharp,  dazzling  white  teeth,  set  in  rows  like  a  trap,  canine  and  pointed.  His  face  is  curiously  delicate,  and  covered  with  orange  hair  leading  to  a  snow-white  crown  of  fur.  My  breath  nearly  failed  when  I  looked  into  his  eyes,  for  they  are  a  bright,  penetrating  blue.  At  first,  he  began  to  scream  and  swing  as  if  he  would  come  at  me.  If  he  had,  I  would  have  fared  badly.  The  sailors  fear  him,  for  there  is  no  man  on  board  with  half  his  strength,  no  man  on  the  sea  with  a  tenth  his  agility  in  the  ropes,  and  if  there  is  a  man  with  the  glacierlike  pinnacled  teeth,  then  he  must  be  in  a  Scandinavi-  an  or  Eastern  European  circus,  for  there  they  are  fond  of  such  things.  To  my  surprise,  he  stopped  his  pantomime  and,  with  a  gentle  and  quizzical  tilt  of  the  head,  looked  me  straight  in  the  eyes.  I  had  been  sure  that  as  a  man  I  could  answer  his  gaze  as  if  from  infalli-  bility,  and  I  calmly  looked  back.  But  he  had  me.  His  eyes  unset  me,  so  that  I  nearly  shook.  From  that  moment,  he   has  not  threatened  or  bared  his  teeth,  but  merely  rests  near  the  top  of  the  foremast.  The  crew  have  attributed  his  conversion  to  my  special  power.  'This  is  flattering,  though  not  entirely,  as  it  assumes  my  ability  to  commune  with  an  ape.  Little  do  they  suspect  that  it  is  I  and  not  the  monkey  who  havebeen  converted,  although  to  what  I  do  not  know.  I  am  still  thoroughly  ashamed  of  my  indiscretion  and  the  trouble  aris-  ing  from  it.  We  will  get  him  and  put  him  adrift  off  Ras  Asir.  This  evening,  the  cook  grilled  up  some  beef.  I  had  him  thoroughly  vent  the  galley  and  use  a  great  many  herbs.  The  aroma  was  maddening.  I  sat  in  near-hypnotic  ease  in  a  canvas  chair  on  the  quarterdeck,  a  glass  of  wine  in " b'hand,  as  the  heat  fell  to  a  cool  breeze.  We  are  all  sunburned  and  have  been  working  hard,  as  the  ape  silently  watches,  to  trim  regularly  and  catch  the  best  winds.  We  are  almost  in  the  full  swift  of  the  monsoon,  and  shortly  will  ride  it  in  all  its  speed.  It  was  won-  derful  to  sit  on  deck  and  smell  the  herb-laden  meat.  The  sea  itself  must  have  been  jealous.  I  had  several  men  ready  with  cargo  net  and  pikes,  certain  that  he  would  come  down.  We  stared  up  at  him  as  if  he  were  the  horizon,  waiting.  He  smelled  the  food  and  agi-  tated  back  and  forth.  Though  he  fretted,  he  did  not  descend.  Even  when  we  ate  we  saw  him  shunting  to  and  fro  on  a  yardarm.  We  left  a  dish  for  him  away  from  us  but  he  did  not  venture  to  seize  it.  If  he  had,  we  would  have  seized  him.  From  his  impatience,  I  predict  that  tomorrow  he  will  surrender  to  his  stomach.  Then  we  will  catch  him  and  this  problem  will  be  solved.  I  truly  re-  gret  such  an  irregularity,  though  it  would  be  worthwhile  if  he  could  only  tell  us  how  far  he  was  lifted  inside  the  silvered  cone,  and  what  it  was  like.  Yours  &amp;  etc.,  Samson  Low  25  August,  1909,  2\xc2\xb0  13&quot;  10&quot;  N,  51\xc2\xb0  15  17&quot;  E  Off  Mogadishu  DEar  Sir:  Today  he  came  down.  After  the  last  correspondence,  it  occurred  to  me  that  he  might  be  vegetarian,  and  that  though  he  was  hungry,  the  meat  had  put  him  off.  Therefore,  I  searched  my  memory  for  the  most  aromatic  vegetable  dish  I  know.  In  your  service  as  a  fourth  officer,  I  called  at  Jaffa  port,  in  [REDACTED],  in  January  of  1873.  We  went  up  toSfat,  a  holy  town  high  in  the  hills,  full  of  Jews  and  Arabs,  quiet  and  mystical.  There  were  so  many  come  into  that  freezing  velvet  dome  of  stars  that  all  hostelries  were  full.  I  and  several  others  paid  a  small  sum  for  private  lodging  and  board.  At  two  in  the  morning,  after  we  had  re-  turned  from  Mt.  Jermak,  the  Arabs  made  a  hot  lively  fire  from  bundles  of  dry  cyprus  twigs,  and  in  a  great  square  iron  pan  heated  local  oil  and  herbs,  in  which  they  fried  thick  sections  of  potato.  I  have  never  eaten  so  well.  Perhaps  it  was  our  hunger,  the  cold,  the  silence,  being  high  in  the  mountains  at  Sfat,  where  air  is  like  ether  and  all  souls  change.  Today  I  made  the  cook  follow  that  old  receipt.  We  had  been  in  the  monsoon  for  several  hours,  and  the  air  was  littered  with  silver  sparks-apparitions  of  heat from  a  glittering  afternoon.  Though  the  sun  was  low,  iron  decks  could  not  be  tread.  In  the  rigging,  he  appeared  nearly  finished,  limp  and  slouching,  an  arm  hanging  without  energy,  his  back  bent.  We  put  potatoes  ina  dish  on  the  forecastle.  He  descended  slowly,  final-  ly  touching  deck  lightly  and  ambling  to  the  bows  like  a  spider,  all  limbs  brushing  the  planks.  He  ate  his  fill,  and  we  threw  the  net  over  him.  We  had expected  a  ferocious  struggle,  but  his  posture  and  expression  were  so  peaceful  that  I  ordered  the  net  removed.  Sailors  stood  ready  with  pikes,  but  he  stayed  in  place.  Then  I  approached  him  and  ex-  tended  my  hand  as  if  to  a  child.  In  imitation,  he  put  out  his  arm,  looking  much  less  fearsome.  Without  a  show  of  teeth,  in  his  tired  state,  crouched  on  all  fours  to  half  our  heights,  he  was  nomore  frightening  than  a  hound.  I  led  him  to  the  stern  and  back  againwhile  the  crew  cheered  and  laughed.  Then  the  mate  tookhim,  and  then  the  entire  hierarchy  of  the  ship,  down  to  the  cabin  boys,  who  are  smaller  thanhe  and  seemed  to  interest  him  the  most.  By  dark,  he  had  strolled  with  every  member  of  the  crew  and  was  miraculously  tame.  But  I  remem-  ' b"bered  his  teeth,  and  had  him  chained  to  his  little  boat.  He  was  comfortable  there,  surrounded  by  fruit  and  water  (which  he  ate  and  drank  me-  thodically  )  and  sitting  on  a  throne  of  sorts,  with  halfa  dozen  '.  courtiers  eager  to  look  in  his  eyes  and  hold  his  obliging  wrist.  Mine  is  not  the  only  [REDACTED]  post  in  which  he  will  be  mentioned.  Those  who  can  write  are  describing  him  with  great  zeal.  I  have  seen  some  of  these  letters.  He  has  been  portrayed  asa  &quot;mad  baboon,&quot;  a  &quot;man-eating  gorilla  of  horrible  colors,  mus-  cled  but  as  bright  as  a  bird,&quot;  a  &quot;pygmy  man  set  down  on  the  sea  by  miracle  and  typhoon,&quot;  and  as  all  manner  of  Latin  names,  each  different  from  the  others  and  incorrectly  spelled.  Depending  on  the  bend  of  the  monsoon  and  whether  it  con-  tinues  to  run  strongly,  we  will  pass  Ras  Asir  in  three  days.  I  thought  of  casting  him  off  early  but  was  implored  to  wait  for  the  [REDACTED].  I  relented,  and  in  doing  so  was  made  to  under-  stand  why  those  in  command  must  stay  by  rules.  I  am  sure,  how-  ever,  that  my  authority  is  not  truly  diminished,  and  when  the  ape  is  gone  I  will  again  tight-  en  discipline.  I  have  already  had  the  distress  flag  replaced  by  a  green  banner.  It  flies  over  the  creature  on  his  throne.  Though  in  splendor  he  is  in  chains  and  in  three  days'  time  will  be  on  the  sea  once  more.  Yours  &amp;  etc.,  Samson  Low  28  August,  1909,  12\xc2\xb0  4&quot;  39&quot;  N,  50\xc2\xb0  1&quot;  2&quot;  E  North  of  Ras  Asir  Dear  Sir:  A  most  alarming  incident  has  oc-  curred.  I  must  report,  though  it  is  among  the  worst  episodes  of  my  com-  mand.  This  morning,  I  arose,  expect-  ing  to  put  the  ape  over  the  side  as  we  rounded  Ras  Asir  at  about  eleven.  (The  winds  have  been  consistently  ex-  cellent  and  a  northward  breeze  veering  off  the  monsoon  has  propelled  us  as  steadily  as  an  engine.)  Going  out  on  deck,  I  discovered  that  his  boat  was  nowhere  to  be  seen.  At  first,  I  thought  that  the  mate  had  already  disposed  of  him,  and  was  disappointed  that  we  were  far  from  the  coast.  Then,  to  my  shock,  I  sawhim  sitting  unmanacled  atop  the  main  cargo  hatch.  I  screamed  at  the  mate,  demanding  to  know  what  had  happened  to  the  throne  (as  it  had  come  to  be  called  ).  He  replied  that  it  had  gone  overboard  during  the  twelve-to-four  watch,  I  stormed  below  and  got  that  watch  out  in  a  hurry.  Though  sleepy-eyed,  they  were  terrified.  I  told  them  that  if  the  guilty  one  did  not  come  forth  I  would  put  them  all  in  irons.  My  temper  was  short  and  I  could  have  struck  them  down.  Two  young  sailors,  as  fright,  ened  as  if  they  were  surrendering  themselves  to  die,  admitted  that  they  had  thrown  it  over.  They  said  they  " b"did  not  want  to  see  the  ape  put  to  drift.  They  are  in  irons  until  we  make  [REDACTED].  Their  names  are  Mulcahy  and  Esper,  and  their  pay  is  docked  until  they  are  freed.  As  we  rounded  the  [REDACTED],  cutting  close  in  (for  the  waters  there  are  deep),  we  could  see  that  though  the  creature  would  havebeen  immediately  cast  up  on  shore,  the  shore  itself  was  barren  and  inhospitable,  and  surely  he  would  have  died  there.  My  Admiralty  chart  does  not  detail  the  inland  topography  of  this  area  and  shows  only  a  yellow  tongue  marked  &quot;Africa&quot;  thrusting  into  the  [REDACTED]  of  59656d656e.  I  can  throw  him  over-  board  now  or  later.  I  do  not  want  to  do  it.  I  brought  him  on  board  in  the  first  place.  There  is  nothing  with  which  to  fash-  ion  another  raft.  We  have  many  tons  of  wood  below,  but  not  a  cubic  foot  of  it  is  lighter  than  water.  The  wind  is  good  and  we  are  making  for  the  Bab  al-Mandab,  where  we  will  pass  late  to-  morrow  afternoon-after  that,  the  frustrating  runup  the  Red  Sea  to  the  Canal.  The  mate  suggests  that  we  sell  him  to  the  Egyptians.  But  I  am  reluctant  to  make  port  with  this  in  mind,  as  it  would  bea  victory  for  the  two  in  chains  and  in  the  eyes  of  many  others.  And  we  are  not  animal  traders.  If  he  leaves  us  at  sea  the  effects  of  his  pres-  ence  will  be  invalidated,  we  will  touch  land  with  discipline  restored,  and  I  will  have  the  option  of  destroying  these  letters,  though  everything  here  has  been  entered  in  short  form  in  the  log.  I  have  ordered  him  not  to  be  fed,  but  they  cast  him  scraps.  I  must  get  back  my  proper  hold  on  the  ship.  Yours  &amp;  etc.,  Samson  Low  30  August,1909,15\xc2\xb0  49&quot;  30&quot;  N,  41\xc2\xb0  5  32&quot;  E  Red  Sea  off  Massawa  DEar  Sig:  I  have  been  felled  by  an  attack  of  headaches.  Never  before  has  this  hap-  pened.  There  is  pressure  in  my  skull  enough  to  burst  it.  I  cannot  keep  my  balance;  my  eyes  roam  and  I  am  drunk  with  pain.  For  the  weary  tack  up  the  Red  Sea  I  have  entrusted  the  mate  with  temporary  command,  retir-  ing  to  my  cabin  with  the  excuse  of  heat  prostration.  I  have  been  in  the  Red  Sea  time  and  again  but  have  never  felt  apprehension  that  death  would  follow  its  heat.  We  have  always  managed.  To  the  east,  the  mountains  of  the  Hijaz  are  so  dry  and  forbidding  that  I     have  seen  sailors  look  away  in  fright.  The  ape  has  begun  to  suffer  from  the  heat.  He  is  listless  and  ignored.  His  novelty  has  worn  off  (with  the  heat  as  it  is)  and  no  one  pays  him  any  atten-  tion.  He  will  not  go  belowdecks  but  spends  most  of  the  day  under  the  can-  vas  sun  shield,  chewing  slowly  though  there  is  nothing  inhis  mouth.  It  is  hot  there-the  light  so  white  and  uncom-  promising  it  sears  the  eyes.  I  have  freed  his  champions  from  irons  and  restored  their  pay.  By  this  act  I  have  won  over  the  crew  and  caused  the  factions  to  dis-  appear.  No  one  thinks  about  the  ape,  But  I  dare  not  risk  a  recurrence  of  bad  feeling  and  have  decided  to  cast  him  into  the  sea,  Where  we  found  him,  a  strong  sea-  ward  current  would  have  carried  him  to  the  open  ocean.  Here,  at  least,  he  can  make  the  shore,  although  it  is  the  most  barren  coast  on  earth.  But  who  would  have  thought  he  might  sur-  vive  the  typhoon?  He  has  been  living  beyond  his  time.  To  be  picked  up  and  whirled  at  incomprehensible  speed,  carried  for  miles  above  the  earth  where  no  man  has  ever  been,  and  thrown  into  the  sea  is  a  death  sentence.  If  he  survived  that,  perhaps  he  can  survive  Arabian  desert.  His  expression  is  neither  sad  nor  fierce.  He  looks  like  an  old  man,  neu-  tral  to  the  world.  In  the  last  two  days  he  has  become  thetarget  of  provoca-  tion  and  physical  blows.  I  have  ordered  this  stopped,  but  a  sailor  will  sometimes  throw  a  nail  or  a  piece  of  wood  at  him.  We  shall  soon  be  rid  of  him.  Yesterday  we  came  alongside  an-  other  British  ship,  the  Stonepool,  of  the  Dutch  Express  Line.  On  seeing  the  ape,  they  were  envious.  What  is  it,  their  captain  asked,  amazed  at  its  coloring.  I  replied  that  he  was  a  Mada-  gascar  ape  we  had  fished  from  the  sea,  and  I  offered  him  to  them,  saying  he  was  as  tame  as  a  dog.  At  first,  they  wanted  him.  The  crew  cried  out  for  his  acceptance,  but  the  captain  de-  murred,  shaking  his  head  and  looking  into  my  eves  as  if  he  were  laughing  at  me.  &quot;Damn!&quot;  I  said,  and  went  below  without  even  a  salute  at  parting.  My  head  aches.  I  must  stop.  At  first  light  tomorrow,  I  will  toss  him  back.  Yours  &amp;  etc.,  Samson  Low  3  September,  1909  [REDACTED]  DEar  Sir:  The  morning  before  last  I  went  on  deck  at  dawn.  The  ape  was  sitting  on  the  main  hatch,  his  eyes  upon  me  from  the  moment  I  saw  him.  I  walked  over  to  him  and  extended  my  arm,  which  he  would  not  take  in  his  customary  manner.  I  seized  his  wrist,  which  he  withdrew.  However,  as  he  did  this  I  laid  hold  of  the  other  wrist,  and  pulled  him  off  the  hatch.  He  did  not  bare  his  teeth.  He  began  to  scream.  Awakened  by  this,  most  ofthe  crew  stood  in  the  companionways  or  on  deck,  silently  observing.  He  was  hard  to  drag,  but  I  towed  him  to  the  rail.  When  I  took  his  oth-  er  arm  to  hoist  him  over,  he  bared  his  teeth  with  a  frightening  shriek.  Every-  one  was  again  terrified.  The  teeth  must  be  six  inches  long.  He  came  at  me  with  those  teeth,  and  I  could  do  nothing  but  throttle  him.  With  my  hands  on  his  throat,  his  arms  were  free.  He  grasped  my  side.  I  felt  the  pads  of  his  hands  against  my  ribs.  I  had  to  tolerate  that  awful  sen-  sation  to  keep  hold  of  his  throat.  No  man  aboard  came  close.  He  shrieked  and  moaned.  His  eyes  reddened.  My  response  was  to  tighten  my  hold,  to  end  the  horror.  I  gripped  so  hard  that  my  own  teeth  were  bared  and  I  made  sounds  similar  to  his.  He  put  his  hands  around  my  neck  as  if  to  strangle  me  back,  but  I  had  already  taken  the  in-  side  position  and,  despite  his  great  strength,  lessened  the  power  of  his  grip  merely  by  lifting  my  arms  against  his.  Nevertheless  he  choked  me.  But  I  had  a  great  head  start.  We  held  this  posi-  tion  for  long  minutes,  sweating,  until  his  arms  dropped  and  his  body  con-  vulsed.  In  rage,  I  threw  him  by  the  neck  into  the  sea,  where  he  quickly  sank.  Some  of  the  crew  have  begun  totalk  about  him  as  if  he  were  about  to  be  canonized.  Others  see  him  as  evil.  I  as-  sembled  them  as  the  coasts  began  to  close  on  [REDACTED]  and  the  top  of  the  sea  was  white  and  still.  I  made  my  views  clear,  for  in  years  of  command  and  in  a  life  on  the  sea  I  have  learned  much.  I  felt  confident  of  what  I  told  them.  He  is  not  a  symbol.  He  stands  nei-  ther  for  innocence  nor  for  evil.  There  is  no  parable  and  no  lesson  in  his  com-  ing  and  going.  I  was  neither  right  nor  wrong  in  bringing  him  aboard  (though  it  was  indeed  incorrect)  or  in  what  I  later  did.  We  must  get  on  with  the  ship's  business.  He  does  not  stand  for  a  man  or  men.  He  stands  for  nothing.  He  was  an  ape,  simian  and  lean,  half  sensible.  He  came  on  board,  and  now  he  is  gone.  Yours  &amp;  etc.,  Samson  Low   "