 b"AT  the  edge  of  the  city  of  towers,   a  narrow  park  runs  for  a  mile  or  so  along  the  river.  When  I  lived  nearby,  I  would  often  walk  there  in  the  afternoons.  Bridges  for  pedestrians,  bicycles,  and  baby  carriages  crossthe  heavy  traffic  of  the  express-  way  at  irregular  intervals,  and  ramps  descend  from  their  river  ends  into  the  park.  Thin  branches  of  slaty  trees  reach  toward  the  suspended  slopes,  sur-  round  them,  and  wait,  always  expect-  ing  something  else.  The  park  is  bound-  ed  by  a  railing,  a  barrier  of  the  utmost  simplicity,  next  to  the  expressway,  within  arm's  reach  of  the  hurtling  traffic.  That  railing  is  never  touched,  and  is  evenly  wrapped  in  smoke.  The  gutter  outside  it  is  never  swept  by  any-  thing  except  the  wind  of  the  passing  cars.  Another  railing  follows  the  main  pathway  along  thetop  of  the  river  wall.  It  has  been  bent,  here  and  there,  and  broken  in  places.  All  the  way  along,  the  top  has  been  worn  smooth  by  hands,  sothat  it  shines.  After  heavy  rain  or  a  midwinter  thaw,  the  scattered  spots  of  rust  never  last  for  more  than     a  day.  Leaning  on  the  railing,  one  can  look  straight  down  the  dark  masonry  of  the  river  wall:  granite  blocks  per-  petually  wet  with  the  heave  and  slap  ofthe  polished  leaden  water,  and  ex-  haling  its  leaden  smell.  Wakes  of  tugs  and  barges  unfurl  up  the  dank  wall,  and  fall  away,  leaving  their  shadows  on  it,  drying.  Coming  and  going,  the  tide  clings  to  the  wall.  Between  passages  of  hands,  gulls  watch  the  water  from  the  cold  bright  rail.  It  has  an  age  of  its  own,  a  func-  tion  of  the  lives  that  have  touched  it,  slipped  along  it,  clung  to  it.  It  is  older  than  the  ore  it  was  made  of.  Its  icy  curve  reflects  dimly,  in  the  manner  of  frozen  surfaces.  Objects  loom  and  vanish  in  it  as  amorphous  shadows:  drifting  gulls,  the  vast  bridge  high  overhead  with  trains  flickering  slowly  over  it  and  traffic  on  it  creeping  through  the  sky  above  the  river-all  are  there,  but  only  their  watery  mo-  tions,  their  changes,  are  distinguishable.  The  far  shore  itself  is  mirrored  there:  its  smoking  factories,  gas  tanks  painted  like  checkerboards,  warehouses,  and   wharves  are  reduced  to  an  indistinct  margin  on  the  unworn  outer  edge  of  the  iron.  They  merge  into  a  horizon  of  solid  rust.  There  is  a  silence  in  the  park  that  always  seems  sudden,  because  of  the  din  that  encloses  it,  Trucks  and  cars  roar  beside  it,  trains  rumble  and  clat-  ter  above  it,  horns  blow,  sirens  and  the  whistles  of  tugs  howl  and  blast  along  it,  compressors,  drills  tear  at  it-it  remains  there,  they  miss  it,  one  steps  down  into  it.  Yelping  of  dogs  and  shrieks  of  children  drift  through  it  like  small  kites,  and  float  away.  At  each  season,  it  contains  the  others.  It  was  midwinter  when  I  stood  by  the  railing  and  saw  my  father  on  the  far  side  of  the  river.  He  had  emerged  from  a  high  office  in  a  rusted  factory  near  the  bridge,  an  edifice  of  many  stories,  each  of  a  dif-  ferent  size  and  shape  from  the  others,  like  the  superstructure  of  a  ship.  A  sugar  factory,  I  had  often  stood  and  stared  across  at  it.  At  that  distance,  the  buildings  appear  to  have  only  one  side  with  nothing  behind  it.  But  even  from  so  far  away,  I  could  recognize  him.  He  was  wearing  no  jacket,  only  a  shirt,  in  spite  of  the  cold  north  wind.  A  fresh  yellow  shirt,  the  color  of  lighted  office  windows  before  dark.  And  no  tie.  He  looked  fatter  than  when  I  had  last  seen  him,  but  the  shirt  was  loose,  and  the  sleeves  fluttered  in  the  wind.  He  stood  leaning  on  the  bal-  cony  railing,  looking  down  at  a  ship,  moored  below,  that  had  been  unloading  there  for  several  days,  its  bow  higher  every  day.  It  came  from  Costa  Rica.  I  could  not  see  what  was  being  unloaded  from  it.  I  waved,  but  I  was  not  sur-  prised  that  he  did  not  see  me.  He  was  not  even  wearing  his  glasses.  At  that  time,  he  still  had  nine  years  to  live.  I  waved  again.  What  was  he  doing  in  the  sugar  factory,  hundreds  of  miles  from  where  he  had  beenborn  and  was  living?  I  considered  that  if  I  were  to  walk  to  the  nearest  ramp,  and  away  from  the  river,  many  blocks,  to  the  bridge  approach,  it  would  be  dark  long  before  I  even  came  in  sight  of  the  fac-  tory  again.  As  I  watched,  he  turned  and  went  back  in,  and  at  once  I  began  to  wonder  whether  I  had  seen  him  at  all.  Of  course,  I  said  nothing  about  it.  And  of  course  I  knew  he  was  far  away  all  the  time.  Letters  came  from  my  mother,  as  usual.  All  was  well.  When  I  thought  it  had  been  only  the  day  be-  fore  yesterday  that  I  had  seen  him,  I  realized  that  it  had  been  longerthan  that,  and  then  I  triedto  remember  " b'whether  it  had  been  Wednesday  or  Thursday,  and  was  startled  to  think  that  it  might  even  have  been  the  Saturday  before,  and  then  for  a  moment  I  could  not  remember  what  day  &quot;today&quot;  was.  I  had  beenback  more  than  once,  and  had  not  seen  him.  Then  one  afternoon  he  came  out  again.  HAD  stopped-as  I  had  done  each  time  I  had  returned  to  the  park  since  I  had  first  seen  him-  for  a  long  look  at  the  fac-  tory.  The  same  ship  was  still  unloading,  the  stern  al-  most  as  high  as  the  bow.  I  thought  it  strange  that  they  should  take  so  long  about  the  unloading.  I  wondered  about  the  expense,  and  whether  the  factory  owned  the  wharf.  That  same  flag  from  the  tropics  flapping  day  after  day  in  the  wintry  afternoon  light.  As  I  watched,  the  same  door  opened,  and  he  stepped  out,  in  his  shirtsleeves  again,  and  put  his  hands  on  the  balcony  railing  and  stood  looking  down  at  the  ship.  I  thought,  as  I  had  the  first  time,  that  he  looked  younger  than  he  did  at  home.  That,  then,  was  the  way  he  looked  at  the  sugar  factory-a  life  he  never  mentioned,  a  life  of  ships,  distances,  cargoes,  easygoing  gazing  from  bal-  conies,  without  noticing  the  cold-  whereas  at  home,  in  the  life  in  which  I  was  used  to  seeing  him,  he  set  the  thermostat  in  the  upper  eighties  and  complained  of  drafts.  Rays  of  the  winter  sunset  passing  between  the  piers  of  the  bridge  fixed  the  ship  and  the  factory  and  the  balcony  in  salmon  light.  I  waved  to  him,  but  he  was  watching  the  ship,  and  even  if  he  had  looked  up  and  across  the  river,  he  would  have  had  the  sun  in  his  eyes.  He  straightened  up,  rubbed  his  arms-  whose  softness  had  always  depressed  me-and  turned  to  look  down  the  river  for  a  moment  before  going  back  into  the  office  behind  him.  Seeing  him  a  second  time  did  not  remove  my  earlier  doubts;  it  exacer-  bated  them,  and  awoke  new  ones.  I  won-  dered  whether  the  man  I  had  seen  had  been  there  at  all.  I  wondered  what  that  meant-in  any  sense-and  why  I  had  seen  him,  and  how  I  knew  that  he  was  my  father.  For  I  knew  that  he  was  my  father-who,  I  knew,  was  living  hundreds  of  miles  inland,  at  that  moment.  The  sun  went  down.    The  black  puddles  were  frozen  under  the  bridge.  Why  did  I  think  I  had  seen  him?  The  bright  weather  of  the  first  lengthening  days  continued,  and,  the  next  afternoon,  I  walked  onto  the  long  bridge  across  the  river.  The  ship  was  still  there,  riding  high  in  the  water,  again  reflecting  the  sunset.  As  I  leaned  over  the  bridge  railing,  which  was  not  polished  and  reflected  nothing,  he  came  out  again,  now  on  the  balcony  below  me,  and  looked  down  onto  the  empty  ship.  I  thought  that  I  could  have  called  to  him,  but  I  knew  that  the  dis-  tance  was  deceptive  and  the  traffic  on  the  bridge  was  roaring  behind  me.  The  day  was  milder  than  the  one  be-  fore,  and  without  wind.  The  tide  was  rising.  I  watched  him  for  a  long  time,  waiting  for  him  to  look  up,  and  he  did,  but  not  toward  the  part  of  the  bridge  where  I  was  waving.  And  then  he  went  in,  and  I  walked  on  farther  across  the  river,  until  I  stood  over  the  factory  and  could  see  the  back  of  it:  the  trucks  in  the  courtyard  on  the  landward  side,  the  chutes  to  another  building,  the  open  warehouse  doors,  the  streets  beyond.  I  considered  going  all  the  way  across  the  bridge  and  into  the  factory,  and  inquiring-  what?  Asking  for  my  father?  By  what  name?  Asking  for  the  man  on  the  balcony?  About  what?  There  I  was,  older  than  my  father  had  been  when  I  was  born.  I  looked  across  the  bridge,  downriver,  at  the  Navy  yard.  I  recalled  the  way  my  father  had  often  used  the  term  Navy  yard&quot;-a  phrase  evoking  se-  cret  privileges,  participation  in  some   arcane  freedom  and  authority  in  an-  other  time.  Yet  I  knew  that  the  phrase,  as  he  used  it,  did  not  refer  to  the  place  I  could  see,  with  its  gray  hulls  tied  in  bundles,  but  to  somewhere  in-  explicably  different,  vanished,  on  an-  other  coast,  with  two  wars  between.  I  had  never  been  able  to  imagine  his  having  anything  to  do  with  ships.  When  he  had  shown  me,  once,  a  pho-  tograph  of  himself  and  friends,  on  their  ship,  in  the  First  War,  he  had  had  to  point  himself  out  to  me;  he  was  sitting  cross-legged,  grinning,  in  a  knitted  hat,  on  top  of  a  big  tube  called  a  ventilator.  What  he  said  was,  their  ship  looked  like  part  of  a  building,  a  floor.  When  he  showed  me  the  brown  picture,  I  thought  someone  else  was  speaking  to  me  from  behind  him.  The  day  after  I  had  seen  him  from  the  bridge,  the  ship  was  gone.  I  knew  that  he  was  still  in  the  factory,  but  he  did  not  come  out,  that  afternoon.  In  the  days  that  followed,  I  found  it  hard  to  believe  that  I  had  ever  seen  him,  and  I  never  saw  him  there  again,  alive. '