 b"BROOKLYN  :  Tree-lined  streets.  The  [REDACTED].  Churches  and  cemeteries  everywhere.  And  candy  stores.  A  small  boy  helps  a  bearded  old  man  across  the  street  and  says,  &quot;Good  Sab-  bath.&quot;  The  old  man  smiles  and  empties  his  pipe  on  the  boy's  head.  The  child  runs  crying  into  his  house.  ...  Stifling  heat  and  humidity  descend  on  the  borough.  Residents  bring  folding  chairs  out  onto  the  street  after  dinner  to  sit  and  talk.  Suddenly  it  begins  to  snow.  Confusion  sets  in.  A  vender  wends  his  way  down  the  street  selling  hot  pret-  zels.  He  is  set  upon  by  dogs  and  chased  up  a  tree.  Unfortunately  for  him,  there  are  more  dogs  at  thetop  of  the  tree.  &quot;Benny!  Benny!&quot;  A  mother  is  call-  ingher  son.  Benny  is  sixteen  but  al-  ready  has  a  police  record.  When  he  is  twenty-six,  he  will  go  to  the  electric  chair.  At  thirty-six,  he  will  be  hanged.  At  fifty,  he  will  own  his  own  dry-  cleaning  store.  Now  his  mother  serves  breakfast,  and  because  the  family  is  too  poor  to  afford  fresh  rolls  he  spreads  marmalade  on  the  News.  Ebbets  Field:  Fans  line  Bedford  Avenue  in  hopes  of  retrieving  home-  run  balls  hit  over  the  right-field  wall.  After  eight  scoreless  innings,  there  is  a  roar  from  the  crowd.  A  ball  sails  over  the  wall,  and  eager  fans  jostle  for  it!  For  some  reason,  it  is  a  football-no  one  knows  why.  Later  that  season,  the  owner  of  the  Brooklyn  Dodgers  will  trade  his  shortstop  to  [REDACTED]  for  a  left  fielder,  and  then  he  will  trade  himself  to  [REDACTED]  for  the  owner  of  the  Braves  and  his  two  youngest  children.  Sheepshead  Bay:  A  leathery-faced  man  laughs  heartily  and  hauls  up  his  crab  traps.  A  giant  crab  seizes  the  man's  nose  between  his  claws.  The  man  is  no  longer  laughing.  His  friends  pull  him  from  one  side  while  the  crab's  friends  pull  from  the  other.  It  is  no  use.  The  sun  sets.  They  are  still  at  it.  NEW  OrLEANS:  A  jazz  band  stands  in  the  rain  at  a  cemetery  play-  ing  mournful  hymns  as  a  body  is  low-  ered  into  the  earth.  Now  they  strike  up  a  spirited  march  and  begin  the  parade  back  to  town.  Halfway  there,  someone  realizes  they  have  buried  the  wrong  man.  What's  more,  they  weren't  even  close.  The  person  they  buried  was  not  dead,  or  even  sick;  in  fact,  he  was  yvodelling  at  the  time.  They  return  to  the  cemetery  and  ex-  hume  the  poor  man,  who  threatens  to  sue,  although  they  promise  to  let  him  have  his  suit  cleaned  and  send  them  the  bill.  Meanwhile,  no  one  knows  which  person  is  actually  dead.  The  band  con-  tinues  to  play  while  each  of  the  onlook-  ers  is  buried  in  turn,  on  the  theory  that  the  deceased  will  go  down  the  smooth-  est.  Soon  it  becomes  apparent  that  no  one  has  died,  and  now  itis  too  late  to  get  a  body,  because  of  the  holiday  rush.  It  is  Mardi  Gras.  Creole  food  ev-  erywhere,  Crowds  in  costume  jam  the  streets.  A  man  dressed  as  a  shrimp  is  thrown  into  a  steaming  pot  of  bisque.  He  protests,  but  no  one  believes  he  is  not  a  crustacean.  Finally  he  produces  a  driver's  license  and  is  released.  Beauregard  Square  is  teeming  with  sightseers.  Once  Marie  Laveau  prac-  ticed  voodoo  here.  Now  an  old  Haitian  &quot;conjure  man&quot;  is  selling  dolls  and  amulets.  A  policeman  tells  him  to  move  on,  and  an  argument  begins.  W  hen  it  is  over,  the  policeman  is  four  inches  tall.  Outraged,  he  still  tries  to  make  an  arrest,  but  his  voice  is  so  high  that  no  onecan  understand  him.  Presently  a  cat  crosses  the  street,  and  the  police-  man  is  forced  to  run  for  his  life.  PARIS;  Wet  pavements.  And  lights  everywhere  there  are  lights!  I  come  upon  a  man  at  an  outdoor  caf\xc3\xa9,.  It  is  Henri  Malraux.  Oddly,  he  thinks  that  I  am  Henri  Malraux.  I  explain  that  he  is  Malraux  and  I  am  just  a  student.  He  is  relieved  to  hear  this,  as  he  is  fond  of  Mme.  Malraux  and  would  hate  to  think  she  is  my  wife.  We  talk  of  seri-  ous  things,  and  he  tells  me  that  man  is  free  to  choose  his  own  fate  and  that  not  until  he  realizes  that  death  is  part  of  life  canhe  really  understand  existence.  Then  he  offers  to  sell  me  a  rabbit's  foot.  Years  later,  we  meet  at  a  dinner,  and  again  he  insists  thatI  am  Malraux.  This  time,  I  go  along  with  it  and  get  to  eat  his  fruit  cocktail.  Autumn.  [REDACTED]  is  crippled  by  another  strike.  Now  it  is  the  acrobats.  No  one  is  tumbling,  and  the  city  comes  to  a  standstill.  Soon  the  strike  spreads  to  in-  clude  jugglers,  and  then  ventriloquists.  4672616e6365ians  regard  these  as  essential  serv-  ices,  and  many  students  become  violent.  Two  Algerians  are  caught  practicing  handstands  and  their  heads  are  shaved.  A  ten-year-old  girl  with  long  brown  curls  and  green  eyes  hides  a  plastic  ex-  plosive  device  in  the  Minister  of  the  In-  terior's  chocolate  mousse.  With  the  first  bite,  he  passes  through  the  roof  of  Fou-  " b"quet's  and  lands  unharmed  in  Les  Halles,  Now  Les  Halles  is  no  more.  HROUGH  [REDACTED]  by  auto:  The  poverty  is  staggering.  Clusters  of  sombreros  evoke  the  mu-  rals  of  Orozco.  It  is  over  a  hundred  degrees  in  the  shade.  A  poor  Indian  sells  me  a  fried-pork  enchilada.  It  tastes  delicious,  and  I  wash  it  down  with  some  ice  water.  I  feel  a  slight  queasiness  in  the  stomach  and  then  start  speaking  Dutch.  Suddenly  a  mild  abdominal  pain  causes  me  to  snap  over  like  a  book  slamming  shut.  Six  months  later,  I  awake  ina  Mexi-  can  hospital  completely  bald  and  clutching  a  Yale  pennant.  It  has  been  a  fearful  experience,  and  I  am  told  that  when  I  was  delirious  with  fever  and  close  to  death's  door  I  or-  dered  two  suits  from  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED].  I  recuperate  in  a  ward  full  of  many  wonderful  peasants,  several  of  whom  will  later  become  close  friends.  There  is  Alfonso,  whose  mother  wanted  him  to  be  a  matador.  He  was  gored  by  a  bull  and  then  later  gored  by  his  mother.  And  Juan,  a  simple  pig  farmer  who  couldnot  write  his  name  but  some-  how  managed  to  defraud  I.T.T.  out  of  six  million  dollars.  And  old  Hernindez,  who  had  ridden  beside  Zapata  for  many  years,  until  the  great  revolutionary  had  him  arrested  for  constantly  kicking  him.  RAIN.  Six  straight  days  of  rain.  Then  fog.  I  sit  in  a  [REDACTED]  pub  with  Willie  Maugham.  I  am  distressed,  because  my  first  novel,  &quot;Proud  Emetic,&quot;  has  been  coolly  received  by  the  critics.  Its  one  favorable  notice,  in  the  Times,  was  vitiated  by  the  last  sentence,  which  called  the  book  &quot;a  miasma  of  asinine  clich\xc3\xa9s  unrivalled  in  Western  letters.&quot;  Maugham  explains  that  while  this  quote  can  be  interpreted  many  ways,  it  might  be  best  not  to  use  it  in  the  print  ads.  Now  we  stroll  up  Old  Brompton  Road,  and  the  rains  come  again.  I  offer  my  umbrella  to  Maugham  and  he  takes  it,  despite  the  fact  he  already  has  an  umbrella.  Maugham  now  carries  two  open  umbrellas  while  I  run  along  be-  side  him.  &quot;One  must  never  take  criticism  too  seriously,&quot;  he  tells  me.  &quot;My  first  short  story  was  harshly  denounced  by  one  particular  critic.  I  brooded  and  made  caustic  remarks  about  the  man.  Then  oneday  I  reread  the  story  and  real-  ized  he  had  been  correct.  It  was  shal-  low  and  badly  constructed.  I  never  for-  got  the  incident,  and  years  later,  when  the  Luftwaffe  was  bombing  [REDACTED],  I  shone  a  light  on  the  critic's  house.&quot;  Maugham  pauses  to  buy  and  open  a  third  umbrella.  &quot;In  order  to  be  a  writer,&quot;  he  continues,  &quot;one  must  take  chances  and  not  be  afraid  to  look  fool-  ish,  I  wrote  'The  Razor's  Edge&quot;  while  wearing  a  paper  hat.  In  the  first  draft  of  'Rain,'  Sadie  Thompson  was  a  par-  rot.  We  grope.  We  take  risks.  All  I  had  when  I  began  'Of  Human  Bond-  age'  was  the  conjunction  'and.'  I  knew  a  story  with  'and'  in  it  could  be  delight-  ful.  Gradually  the  rest  took  shape.&quot;  A  gust  of  wind  lifts  Maugham  off  his  feet  and  slams  him  into  a  building.  He  chuckles.  Maugham  then  offers  the  greatest  advice  anyone  could  give  to  a  young  author:  &quot;At  the  end  of  an  in-  terrogatory  sentence,  place  a  question  mark.  You'd  be  surprised  how  effective  it  can  be.&quot; "