 b"HE  could  not  imagine  in  what  way  he  had  offended  them.  Ever  since  he  could  remember,  they  had  fascinated  him.  His  nurse  sang  him  to  sleep  with  ballads  about  them;  he  pursued  the  hinds  and  shepherds  on  his  father's  estate  for  stories  of  how  they  danced  round  the  Cranach  Loch,  of  the  pebbles  aimed  by  invisible  hands  that  skipped  over  its  surface  in  games  of  duck-and-drake,  of  how,  on  a  sudden,  they  would  leave  all  to-  gether,  whirring  their  wings  and  whis-  tling;  how  they  stole  butter  from  Mun-  go's  mother's  churn,  hated  sluttishness,  danced  rings  into  the  grass;  how,  wearing  mourning  scarves,  they  were  seen  following  the  crazy  Minister's  bier  to  the  grave;  how  it  was  impossible  for  them  to  weep,  how  they  must  never  be  mentioned  on  a  Good  Friday,  how  wary  one  must  be  not  to  offend  them  by  pulling  as  much  as  a  dead  bough  for  fuel  from  a  thorn  tree.  When  he  was  sent  to  the  University  of  Aberdeen  and  could  get  at  books,  he  read  everything  he  could  find  on  their  subject:  that  they  were  the  scat-  tered  remnants  of  Satan's  host,  were  a  superstition,  were  the  old  Picts;  and  \xc2\xabon     reading  the  English  poets-a  fanciful  lot-that  they  slept  in  cast  snake-  skins,  drank  from  acorn-cup  goblets,  sat  on  mushrooms,  drove  teams  of  mice.  Grounded  on  ballads  and  folklore,  he  discounted  most  of  this,  except  as  evi-  dence  substantiating  their  existence-  since  to  be  dismissed  as  a  supersti-  tion  proves  a  preliminary  belief.  Time  went  on,  he  took  his  degree  as  [REDACTED],  andwas  appointed  to  the  Lectureship  in  Rhetoric.  The  learned  life  suited  James  Sutherland  so  well  that  he  was  careful  not  to  jeopardize  his  hold  on  it  by  mentioning  his  private  opinions.  Yet  sometimes  they  broke  from  him,  as  when  in  a  Disputation  with  the  Pro-  fessor  of  History,  a  fanatic  for  the  Picts,  he  found  himself  being  an  Apol-  ogist  for  the  Kingdom  of  Elfin-and  thereafter  was  spoken  of  behind  his  back  as  Fairy  Sutherland.  During  the  summer  vacation,  when  many  ofthe  scholars  went  home  to  help  get  in  theharvest,  the  Professor  of  History  travelled  about  in  search  of  Pictish  remains-the  likeliest  sites  for  them  being  the  so-called  Fairy  Knowes,  which  proved  conclusively  that  fairies  were  imperfectly  remembered  Picts.  James  Sutherland  also  travelled  about  on  a  diversely  corresponding  quest,  and  was  not  above  examining  Pictish  re-  mains,  in  casethey  afforded  a  small  footprint  or  a  strain  of  harp  music.  If,  as  sometimes  happened,  the  two  men  met,  they  conversed  on  blameless  sub-  jects,  such  as  the  prevalence  of  horse-  flies  or  the  clear  atmosphere  which  presages  rain;  and  parted.  But  in  his  forty-ninth  summer  James  Sutherland  had  Foxcastle  to  himself.  One  might  say  it  came  to  him  as  a  reward  of  faith.  A  visiting  Lecturer  in  Jurisprudence  had  remarked  that,  whether  or  no  fairies  existed,  they  influenced  lease-  holds:  the  legendary  teind  to  hell  which  bound  fairies  to  sacrifice  one  of  their  number  everyseven  years  mak-  ing  many  tenants  unwilling  to  begin  a  seven-year  lease,  ora  lease  of  multiple  sevens.  On  the  off-chance  of  finding  a  fairy  legally  recorded,  James  Suther-  land  used  to  buy  bundles  of  old  law  papers  off  the  scrivener's  stall  in  the  market.  Nothing  came  of  it  till  the  day  he  saw  the  name  Foxcastle  in  a  disputed  ownership  of  a  sheep  walk  in  Peeblesshire.  Foxcastle.  Folks  Castle.  The  meaning  jumped  to  the  eye.  It  was  a  long  journey  to  make  on  foot,  but  if  it  had  been  as  far  as  the  Indies  he  would  have  made  it.  FOXCASTLE  was  a  hill  among  other  hills,  steep-sided,  flattened  at  the  top.  If  it  had  been  a  sheep  walk,  that  must  be  long  since,  for  the  heather  had  taken  over,  covering  the  summit  and  lapping  down  the  sides.  It  was  heather  of  long-established  growth,  standing  over  knee-high  on  thickened  stems.  As  he  was  forcing  his  way  through  it  he  thought  that  the  Professor  of  History  would  be  hard  put  to  it  to  trace  any  Pictish  remains.  He  was  still  relishing  the  thought  when  he  fell  into  a  pit.  He  had  got  into  a  formation  of  peat  hags,  which  started  up  from  the  heather  like  foes  from  an  ambush.  The  stagnant  water  streaking  between  them  reflect-  ed  the  sky  with  a  savage  blue.  He  scrambled  out,  none  the  worse  except  for  wet  feet  and  a  twisted  ankle,  and  with  a  sharpened  appreciation  of  the  nature  of  moorland  peat:  dry  as  a  bone  above,  wet  as  corruption  below.  Walk-  ing  more  cautiously,  he  skirted  the  peat  hags,  and  sat  down  on  the  western  slope  to  shake  the  water  out  of  his  shoes  and  rub  his  ankle.  He  had  never  felt  so  imperially  alone,  In  all  the  wide  expanse  around  him  there  was  no  sign  of  man.  Nothing  moved  except  a  few  sheep  on  the  opposite  hillside  and  the  burn  flickering  and  rattling  down  the  valley  between.  He  watched  a  hawk  " b"flyingin  wide  surveying  circles  over-  head,  saw  it  gather  its  flight  into  a  poise  and  strike  down  on  its  kill.  It  was  as  though  this  imposed  an  edict  of  si-  lence;  not  a  small  bird  uttered.  After  a  while  he  saw  it  lift  nonchalantly  away.  It  was  its  own  hawk.  But  manned  hawks  must  often  rise  over  Foxcastle.  Fairies  were  known  to  go  hawking,  using  merlins,  he  supposed,  to  bring  down  larks:  a  merlin  would  be  pro-  portionate.  Angus  the  shepherd,  who  had  seen  a  fairy,  said  it  was  a  head  taller  than  the  tallest  thistle,  portly,  and  holding  itself  very  stately  and  erect.  So  much  for  sleeping  ina  snake's  cast  weed!But  poets  always  spin  nonsense  out  of  reality,  piling  Pelion  on  Ossa  for  a  giant,  whitening  a  lady's  hand  to  new-fallen  snow.  There  was  consider-  able  variance  about  the  elfin  complex-  ion,  authentic  reports  ranging  from  pallor  to  gypsy  swarthiness.  The  fairies  who  came  out  of  a  hill  in  Suffolk  were  green.  Other  authorities  held  that  they  are  invisible  to  mortal  eyes,  or  only  to  be  seen  at  dusk,  when  colors  would  be  muted.  Angus  had  seen  his  thistle  fairy  at  dusk.  James  Sutherland  rubbed  the  ache  from  his  ankle.  His  shoes  were  dry.  He  put  them  on,  but  did  not  get  up.  There  was  still  a  good  stretch  of  the  long  summer  afternoon  to  run;  the  sheep  on  the  opposite  hillside  had  not  begun  to  move  upward  to  their  sleeping  place.  With  every  moment  the  rich  drowsy  scent  of  the  heather  intensified.  He  would  stay  a  while  longer.  When  he  woke,  it  was  night.  Clouds  had  gathered,  blotting  out  moon  and  stars.  It  was  cold,  the  heather  had  lost  its  scent.  He  lay  unmoving,  to  husband  his  warmth.  Later,  he  woke  again.  It  was  still  mirk  night,  and  so  silent  that  hecould  hear,  as  though  it  were  close  at  hand,  the  burn  in  the  valley.  Lulled  by  its  unresting  voice,  he  fell  profound-  ly  asleep.  A  fingernail  pricked  him  awake.  The  heather  was  gone,  the  clouded  sky  was  a  shadowy  stone  vault;  he  lay  on  a  stone  floor,  andwas  bound  handand  foot  in  swathings  of  cobweb,  so  elastic  that  when  he  moved  they  yielded,  so  tough  that  they  would  not  let  go.  The  fingernail  explored  the  convolutions  of  his  ear,  left  it,  traced  the  lines  on  his  cheek.  Other  hands  were  fingering  him,  lightly,  delicately,  adroitly.  His  shoes  were  taken  off,  his  toes  parted,  the  soles  of  his  feet  prodded.  His  coat  was  unbuttoned,  his  shirt  opened.  Fin-  gers  tweaked  the  hair  in  his  armpits.  The  watch  was  pulled  from  his  fob  pocket.  He  knew  they  would  not  stop  at  that.  The  cobweb  bonds  yielded  as  he  writhed  and  struggled,  and  each  time  he  thought  he  had  snapped  them  they  tightened  again.  The  explorers  waited  till  he  lay  exhausted,  replaced  the  watch,  and  proceeded  methodical-  ly  to  his  genitals.  Not  once  had  they  inflicted  the  slightest  pain,  except  to  his  feelings.  He  did  not  even  know  when  they  left  him,  only  that  they  were  gone.  He  lay  in  his  cobweb  bonds  and  wept.  For  these  were  fairies,  these  silentinvisible  tor-  menters.  Throughout  his  life  they  had  been  his  dearest  preoccupation.  He  had  believed  in  them,  venerated  them,  championed  them.  How  had  he  offend-  ed  them?  Why  were  they  so  ungrate-  ful?  A  bowl  of  milk  and  some  ratafia  bis-  cuits  appeared  beside  him.  &quot;Wash  your  hands  first.&quot;  The  speaker  was  invisible.  The  voice  was  unmistakably  that  of  a  servant  of  position.  He  was  propelled  toward  a  jet  of  water  which  cascaded  from  a  hole  in  the  wall,  brimmed  a  rocky  ba-  sin,  and  vanished  with  a  gurgle.  He  implored  the  speaker  to  appear,  asked  why  he  was  made  captive,  thanked  for  the  milk.  He  was  speaking  to  the  empty  air.  The  jet  of  water  splashed,  gurgled,  and  went  its  way.  While  his  back  was  turned  a  truss  of  dry  fern  had  been  spread  out  beside  the  milk.  It  smelled  of  sun  and  the  outer  world.  The  milk,  too,  was  restorative,  the  ratafias  so  exquisitely  light  that  they  melted  in  his  mouth.  A  sense  of  purpose  returned  to  him:  he  must  wind  his  watch,.  He  pulled  it  out.  It  had  stopped.  Till  that  moment,  he  had  been  perplexed,  or  angry,  or  cut  to  the  heart;  but  he  had  not  felt  intimidated:  it  had  been  too  storylike  for  that.  Now  he  fell  into  the  blankness  of  despair.  He  was  lost,  lost!  His  watch,  sole  ally  of  his  rational  man,  had  stopped.  He  sat  with  its  accustomed  weight  in  his  hand  and  looked  at  its  dead  face.  An  expedient  of  fear,  dis-  guised  as  common  sense,  sneaked  into  his  mind.  It  would  be  possible  to  set  it  " b"going  again,  its  hands  adjusted  to  a  conjectural  position.  The  conjecture  need  not  be  far  out,  and  in  any  case  he  would  be  sure  of  a  measure  of  time.  With  an  odd  scruple  of  honor,  he  buried  the  dead  watch  in  his  pocket.  Presently  they  came  back  again-or  were  back  again.  He  was  stripped  of  his  clothes,  his  wig  was  pulled  off,  he  was  again  propelled  to  the  jet  of  water  and  washed.  The  water  cascaded  over  his  head  and  shoulders;  soapsuds  exploded  in  his  ears  and  stung  his  eyes.  There  must  have  been  half  a  dozen  of  them  at  work  on  him,  hissing  as  though  they  were  grooming  a  horse  and  tut-tutting  at  the  dirt  ingrained  on  his  knees  and  elbows.  When  they  had  washed  and  dried  him  they  cut  his  nails,  cleaned  his  teeth,  and  handed  him  his  clothes.  The  clothes  smelled  rancid;  he  was  averse  to  putting  them  on,  but  did  so  because  he  was  chilled.  He  was  also  very  hun-  gry.  No  food  appeared.  Instead,  there  came  a  new  relay  of  fingerers,  who  stripped  him  once  more  and  began  to  measure  him;  he  felt  the  tape  slipped  round  him,  laid  along  him.  The  hope  that  he  was  being  measured  for  new  clothes  was  unfounded.  He  was  being  measured  from  motives  of  biological  curiosity:  the  length  of  his  nose,  the  span  of  his  nostrils,  the  girth  of  each  toe,  the  exact  position  in  relation  to  spine  and  thighbone  ofthe  mole  on  his  buttock,  the  dimensions  of  the  callus  on  his  pen  finger.  They  also  took  his  pulse  and  counted  his  teeth.  After  this,  he  thought,  they  will  cut  me  open  and  anatomize  me.  But  when  they  had  finished  their  measurements  and  repeated  some  in  order  to  be  sure  of  them,  they  were  gone-silently  as  they  had  come,  silent  as  they  had  been  throughout  their  leisurely,  meticulous  investigation.  Then  came  a  bowl  of  soup,  bread,  cheese,  and  bullace  plums.  After  that  -how  long  after  he  had  no  watch  to  tell  him-came  nightfall.  In  the  dark-  ness  he  was  woken  by  the  sound  of  a  desperate  voice:  a  shout  of  despair  which  had  broken  from  him  in  a  dream,  re\xc3\xa9choing  from  the  vault  over-  head.  He  recognized  it,  and  heard  it  die  away.  E  had  renounced  chronometry.  It  was  not  so  easy  to  renounce  hab-  it.  From  habit,  he  continued  to  pull  out  his  watch  and  consult  its  dead  face.  Each  time,  he  said  to  himself,  &quot;I  won't  do  that  again,&quot;  but  he  went  on  doing  it;  for  how  long  he  could  not  have  said,  but  certainly  for  several  months,  for  the  fern  they  brought  him  for  his  bedding  had  lost  any  smell  of  the  warm,  summered  earth.  He  judged  by  the  hollowness  of  the  wind  and  the  lessening  of  the  mysterious  daylight,  which  came  and  went  in  the  window-  less  gallery  where  he  lay  like  the  flow  and  ebb  of  a  tide,  that  it  must  be  well  past  Martinmas.  By  now  his  absence  from  the  Faculty  wauld  have  been  remarked  on,  one  or  another  of  his  pupils  accounting  for  it  by  saying  he  had  been  stolen  by  the  fairies;  the  hy-  pothesis  would  have  come  to  the  ears  of  the  Professor  of  History,  who  would  have  poured  reason  on  it.  Legend  sup-  plants  reason:  in  days  to  come  there  would  bea  tradition  that  a  Lecturer  in  Rhetoric  at  the  University  of  Aberdeen  had  been  stolen  by  the  fairies-as,  in-  deed,  he  had  been.  It  was  easier  to  speculate  on  what  was  going  on  in  the  outer  world  than  on  his  own  circum-  stances.  He  saw  his  food  appear  (there  was  never  enough  of  it),  he  heard  the  wind  blowing,  he  heard  the  water  splash  into  the  rocky  basin  with  an  un-  changing  voice;  he  felt  himself  washed, and  saw  every  fragment  of  litter,  every  crumb  and  cobweb,  removed  by  in-  visible  hands  and  de  facto  becoming  invisible:  his  attendants  (he  had  come  to  think  of  them  as  such)  had  a  Pres-  byterianzealotry  for  cleanliness.  His  beard  was  cultivated  daily.  He  had  never  thought  to  have  abeard,  only  beggars  and  peasants  were  bearded;  he  supposed  it  was  let  grow  as  a  badge  of  captivity.  It  was  combed  and  trimmed,  and  anointed  with  oils  like  Aaron's.  In  a  moment  of  curiosity,  he  pulled  out  a  hair.  He  was  swarthy,  but  the  hair  was  bright  red.  He  grew  attached  to  his  beard;  it  replaced  the  mouse  or  the  spiders  which  ameliorate  the  lot  of  or-  dinary  prisoners.  But  it  was  reaped  off,  and  after  that  they  kept  him  clean-  shaven.  At  lengthening  intervals  he  was  measured,  but  now  a  little  perfunctori-  ly.  Before  long  they  would  lose  inter-  est,  and  there  would  be  no  more  visits.  Whatever  they  had  had  in  mind-en-  tertainment,  the  pursuit  of  knowledge,  the  pleasure  of  being  busied  about  something-they  had  intended  him  no  harm,  no  good.  It  was  impersonal,  the  traffic  of  water  flowing  over  a  stone.  And  one  day,  when  they  were  finished  with  him,he  felt  a  pat  on  his  shoulder.  It  intended  him  no  harm,  no  good-  and  it  almost  destroyed  him.  It  was  as  if  he  were  falling  apart  with  happiness.  For  the  first  time,  a  fairy  hand  had  " b'rested  on  him  with  the  wastefulness  of  a  caress.  He  froze,  he  burned;  he  was  im-  mortally  awake,  he  was  overwhelming-  ly  sleepy;  he  experienced  all  the  vicissi-  tudes  of  love  simultaneously.  Even  when  he  had  dwindled  down  to  his  or-  dinary  self,  his  mind  had  been  jolted  to  a  different  tilt,  and  took  a  different  retrospect.  If  he  had  offended  them  and  so  put  himself  in  their  power,  they  had  shown  a  most  moderate  resent-  ment,  imposing  nothing  worse  than  solitude-which  he  had  always  pre-  ferred  to  company-and  cobweb  fet-  ters.  They  had  washed  him,  fed  him,  bedded  him  in  a  comfortable  thickness  of  fern;  their  hands  had  always  been  gentle.  Where  was  the  farm  animal  who  could  say  that  of  a  mortal  master?  Why  had  he  wasted  all  these  months  in  being  unappreciative?  He  detached  his  fetters,  coiled  them  up,  laid  them  in  a  corner,  and  walked  easily  to  the  door.  As  he  expected,  it  was  locked.  Remembering  his  mortal  weight  he  put  his  shoulder  to  the  door  and  forced  it  open.  Behind  rose  a  winding  stairway,  its  steps  very  shal-  low.  He  mounted  it,  rising  into  grad-  ual  warmth  and  light,  hearing  the  splash  and  gurgle  of  water  sounding  on  in  its  solitude.  The  stair  ended  in  an  anteroom,  where  two  fairies  were  playing  beggar-my-neighbor,  as  intent-  ly  as  though  crowns  and  kingdoms  de-  pended  on  it.  He  stood  for  a  while,  watching  the  fall  of  the  cards;  they  were  the  same  as  any  other  cards,  but  smaller  and  more  brightly  painted.  These  were  the  first  fairies  he  had  ever  seen.  He  saw  them  without  surprise  or  particular  elation.  The  fortune  of  the  game  wound  and  unwound,  governed  by  the  chance  of  a  card.  The  fortune  of  his  game  had  brought  him  a  fairy-  but  he  had  always  known  fairies  were  in  the  pack.  He  walked  intothe  ad-  joining  room.  It  was  a  large  room,  lit  and  scented  with  bayberry  candles,  and  an  assembly  of  fairies  moved  about  in  it,  moving  with  such  small  gliding  steps  that  they  seemed  to  melt  rather  than  move.  Angus  was  not  far  from  the  mark:  taller  than  a  tall  thistle,  he  had  said.  Well-grown  thistles  on  the  family  estate  must  have  reached  a  good  four  foot;  he  could  remember  them  overtopping  him  when  he  was  a  child,  and  how  majestically  they  fell  when  his  father  slashed  them.  He  sta-  tioned  himself  in  a  recess,  to  be  out  of  the  way,  and  undisturbed  by  being  noticed.  One  is  always  disconcerted  by  the  ease  with  which  foreigners  talk  their  native  tongue.  The  speechhe  heard  resembled  no  civilized  mortal  lan-  guage;  slurred  and  full  of  hushed  hisses,  it  was  more  like  some  dialect  of  Gaelic;  but  though  he  listened,  hoping  to  catch  a  word  which  would  put  him  on  the  track  of  what  they  were  talk  ing  about,  all  he  knew  was  that  some  proposal  had  been  made  and  accepted.  They  gathered  into  a  circle,  sat  down  on  the  floor,  and  began  tosing,softly  clapping  their  hands  to  mark  the  meas-  ure.  It  was  a  wandering  melody,  a  melody  of  no  enterprise,  but  it  must  have  had  some  charm  for  them,  and  the  words,  perhaps,  some  rustic  asso-  ciation,  for  why  else  should  these  well-  dressed  persons  sit  in  a  ring  on  the  floor,  like  peasants  in  a  hayfield?  Or  were  they  rehearsing  a  masque?  He  had  got  the  tune  by  heart  and  learned  ' b"nothing  of  the  words  when  there  was  a  brisk  tooting  of  trumpets.  All  rose  to  their  feet.  In  came  the  trumpeters  two  children,  bright  as  parakeets  in  their  gold-laced  uniforms.  The  Queen  followed.  She  was  small-not  taller  than  her  trumpeters-cat-faced,  and  carried  a  knitting  bag  on  her  arm.  She  acknowledged  her  court  bya  cere-  monious  inattentive  curtsy,  and  beck-  oned  to  a  fairy  who  was  obviously  a  person  of  importance.  He  hurried  for-  ward,  bowing  deeply,  and  knelt  before  her,  holding  out  his  hands.  She  looped  a  skein  of  wool  over  them,  wound  it  into  a  ball,  dropped  another  curtsy,  more  of  a  bob  this  time,  and  withdrew,  followed  by  her  trumpeters,  whose  gold-laced  demeanor  contrasted  with  her  air  of  modest  simplicity.  He  was  still  smiling  over  the  trum-  peters  when  another  music  began-a  sort  of  Turkish  march,  played  by  two  fiddlers  and  a  drummer.  By  degrees,  everyone  was  dancing:  here  a  minuet,  there  a  reel,  there  a  prancing  horn-  pipe.  It  seemed  they  danced  as  the  fancy  took  them,  with  little  regard  to  the  music,  till  with  a  rap  on  the  drum  it  quickened  and  commanded  them  into  a  circle  that  gathered  and  dis-  persed,  gathered  and  dispersed,  faster  and  faster,  whirling  by  like  swallows.  He  watched  till  he  could  watch  no  more.  In  the  anteroom  the  match  of  beggar-my-  neighbor  was  still  going  on.  Burrowing  into  his  fern  bed  he  told  himself  he  must  remember  all  this.  E  woke  hearing  an  airy  scuffle  over-  head.  His  attendants  were  flying  upand  down  the  gallery,  con-  testing  for  a  pairof  stockings.  It  was  gratify-  ing  to  see  them  at  last,  though  embarrassing  to  know  he  had  been  in  the  charge  ofthese  flip-  pant  young  persons.  He  coughed.  They  descend-  ed,  looking  as  grave  as  tombstone  cherubim.  When  he  glanced  round  for  his  clothes,  they  held  out  new  ones.  The  measuring  had  certainly  not  been  for  these.  Ev-  erything  was  too  large;  the  shirt  pouted,  the  sad-green  suit  would  have  fitted  a  Hercules;  as  for  the  stockings,  they  were  so  inordinately  long  that  they  had  to  be  rolled  half  a  dozen  times  before  they  could  be  gartered.  He  was  not  a  vain  man,  or  luxurious,  but  he  esteemed  his  legs,  and  wore  silk  stockings.  'These  were  woollen,  and  the  word  that  came  to  his  mind  was  &quot;Pictish.&quot;  It  struck  him  that  justas  the  English  poets  underestimated  the  size  of  fairies,  fairies  overestimated  the  size  of  mortals,  The  reflection  was  philosophic,  and  soothed  him;  but  not  entirely,  The  theory  of  pockets  had  de-  feated  the  Foxcastle  tailor,  so  he  had  to  hang  his  watch  on  a  ribbon  round  his  neck  and  tuck  it  into  the  bosom  of  his  shirt,  like  a  loyal  Jacobite  locket.  From  an  outer-worldly  point  of  view  his  attendants'  good  will  was  a  trifle  hail-fellow.  But  he  was  grateful  for  it.  They  were  fairies,  visible  and  well  disposed,  who  might  be  useful  as  teach-  ers  of  their  native  tongue;  and  they  had  the  merit  of  being  reliably  avail-  able.  When  he  went  upstairs  into  good  society  it  was  disconcerting  to  find  him-  self  alone,  as  he  often  did.  Accustomed  to  a  methodical  social  order  where  time  is  respected  and  per-  sons  occupy  the  portion  of  space  where  you  expect  to  find  them,  he  reconciled  himself  to  the  vagaries  of  Foxcastle  by  seeing  it  as  an  exemplification  of  the   Fay  ce  que  vouldras  of  T  h\xc3\xa9leme.  What  would  next  be  wished,  and  when,  and  for  how  long,  and  by  how  many,  was  unforeseeable.  They  were  fickle  in  their  loves  and  hates,  fickle  and  passionate  in  their  pursuits,  Some  devoted  them-  selves  to  astronomy.  Others  practiced  the  French  horn.  Others  educated  squirrels,  Some,  he  presumed,  made  measurements.  Only  one  thing  was  cer-  tain:  they  never  quarrelled.  Even  in  their  fickle  hates,  they  hated  with-  out  malice.  Whisking  from  one  pur-  suitto  the  next,  they  never  collided.  The  best  comparison  he  could  draw  from  the  outer  world  was  the  swarm  of  mayflies,  indivisibly  borne  aloft,  low-  ering,  shifting,  veering,  like  a  shaken  impermeable  gauze  veil  over  the  face  of  a  stream.  Somewhere  beneath  her  court  the  Queen  of  Foxcastle  sat  in  her  private  apartments  and  knitted.  Fay  ce  que  vouldras.  She  was  devoted  to  knitting  and  never  tired  of  it,  When  his  at-  tendants  told  him  this,  and  that  if  she  had  no  more  wool  at  hand  she  un-  ravelled  her  work  and  knitted  it  up  -  again,  he  exclaimed  &quot;Penelope!&quot;  But  of  course  they  had  never  heard  of  Penelope.  Though  by  now  he  had  learned  enough  Elfin  to  be  able  to  converse  in  it,  and  was  considering  a  treatise  on  Elfin  Grammar,  he  found  it  difficult  to  ac-  climatize  himself  to  a  so-  ciety  which  had  not  a  vestige  of  mortal  scholar-  ship-except  in  mathe-  matics:  the  stargazers  as-  tonished  him  by  the  dex-  terity  of  their  calculations,  looking  at  him  blankly  the  while  if  he  spoke  of  Ori-  on  or  Cygnus.  His  pre-  vious  researches  into  fairies  had  not  prepared  him  for  this  divergence  between  their  values  and  his.  They  had  a  practical  knowledge  of  the  world;  they  also  knew  it  was  round;  but  that  was  the  extent  of  their  knowledge;  they  knew  nothing  of  its  an-  cient  history  and  cele-  brated  characters  and  did  not  care  to.  They  had  no  more  than  aloose  hearsay  acquaintance  with  their  own  history,  and  were  satisfied  to  be  without  any  written  record  of  it,  since  they  attached  no  impor-  tance  to  what  might  be  learned  from  a  book  and  " b"were  amused  by  the  mortal  dependenceon  pen  and  pa-  per.  It  was  this  that  blight-  ed  his  project  of  the  Elfin  Grammar.  They  were  not  unfriendly  to  it,  and  when  he  explained  the  laborious-  nessof  inscribing  it  on  ta-  bles  of  stone  (another  allu-  sion  lost  on  them)  a  party  of  working  fairies  was  dis-  patched  to  steal  aload  of  paper,  while  others  com-  pounded  ink  and  collected  goose  quills,  But  the  Gram-  mar  was  never  written,  be-  cause  the  load  of  paper  was  stolen  from  a  cooked-meats  shop,  and  consisted  of  a  manuscript  cantata  soaked  in  grease.  It  was  also  disconcerting  when  a  fairy  he  was  talk-  ing  to  became  invisible.  But  the  overruling  dis-  concertingness  was  to  find  himself  unconcerned.  It  was  as  if  some  mysterious  oil  had  been  introduced  into  the  workings  of  his  mind.  If  a  thought  irked  him,  he  thought  of  something  else.  If  aproject  miscarried,  a  flooding  serenity  swept  him  beyond  it.  He  lived  atran-  quil  truant,  dissociated  from  himself  as  though  by  a  slight  agreeable  fever-such  afever  as  one  might  catch  by  smelling  a  flower.  This  happy  state  had  begun  when  he  stood  watching  the  game  of  beggar-my-  neighbor,  and  became  aware  that  the  players  didn'tnotice  him,  that  his  large  obtrusive  mortality  made  him  in  some  way  invisible  to  them-invisible  in  that  they  did  not  connect  withhim,  felt  no  obligation  to  do  so.  In  his  former  life,  he  lived  in  a  balancing  act  between  obligations.  He  had  an  obligation  to  do  such-and-such,  he  had  no  obligation  to  do  the  other.  He  performed  the  obli-  gation;  and  the  best  he  was  likely  to  get  out  of  it  was  the  thought  that  it  was  done  with,  for  the  time  being.  He  omitted  the  non-obligation;  and  was  lucky  to  get  off  without  a  kick  from  his  conscience.  He  had  never  conceived  of  the  total  release  of  not  being  an  obligation  himself.  Day  after  day,  month  after  month  went  by  and  not  once  did  he  see  a  fairy's  face  cloud-  ed  with  a  look  of  obligation.  Whether  they  conversed  with  him,  praised  his  pronunciation,  said  how  much  better  he  looked  without  his  wig  (it  had  eventually  fallen  to  pieces);  whether  they  vanished  leaving  him  halfway     through  a  sentence,  their  motives  were  pure  as  the  heavens.  They  had  tone  as  they  wished.  But  why,  feeling  no  obligation  toward  him,  had  they  plucked  him  from  the  heather  and  added  him  to  their  establishment?  And  why,  if  he  were  to  be  added,  did  they  hide  from  him,  and  keep  him  a  prisoner-to  make  him  desolate,  then  change  his  desolation  to  happiness?  Such  a  motive,  stern  and  sentimental,  might  obtain  in  Aberdeen,  but  not  under  Foxcastle.  To  be  useful?  But  he  was  useless.  To  be  informative?  At  the  least  breath  of  information  they  melted  into  air.  To  be  a  trophy?  Of  all  his  speculations,  this  was  the  only  one  he  paused  at.  A  despot  ofthe  Renaissance,  his  court  swarming  with  poets  and  philosophers,  experts  on  Plotinus,  sumptuous  har-  lots,  bishops,  boys,  artists  and  artificers,  inventors,  assassins,  dancers  on  the  tightrope,  had  fixed  his  ambitions  on  owning  a  giraffe.  He  had  forgotten  which  despot.  The  learning  he  had  brought  from  the  outer  world  was  moldering  from  disuse;  only  legends  and  trivia  like  the  giraffe  remained.  What  happened  to  his  wig  might  well  be  happening  to  the  compartmented  order  inside  his  skull.  In  his  blessed  condition  of  being  nobody's  obligation  he  could  spend  his  intellect  as  he  pleased,  sometimes  thinking,  sometimes  observing,  coming  to  conclusions  and  unripping  them  for  the  pleasure  of  knitting  a  new  one  from  the  same  material,  as  the  Queen  did,  It  was  as  though  he  had  always  lived  at  Foxcastle,  accepting  his  good  fortune  without  surprise  as  the  fairies  ac-  cepted  him,  and  endlessly  fascinated  by  their  unaccountableness.  The  more  he  studied  them  the  more  baffled  he  be-  came.  It  was  not  that  they  were  mys-  terious:  they  were  as  straightforward  as  the  scent  of  a  rose,  as  a  wasp  sting.  It  was  impossible  to  love  them:  they  were  too  inconsistent  to  be  loved.  It  was  unavoidable  not  to  be  drawn  to  them.  And  they  defied  conjecture  by  taking  themselves  for  granted.  Theo-  logically  identified  as  the  scattered  remnants  of  Satan's  host,  rationally  dismissed  as  superstition,  they  were  a  raceof  pragmatists.  Just  as  they  were  content  to  know  next  to  nothing  of  their  own  history  because  they  were  living  in  the  present,  they  took  Fox-  " b"castle  for  granted  because  it  was  their  dwelling  place.  Yet  how  was  it  that  living  inside  a  solid,  sizable  hill  he  could  hear  the  wind  blowing  and  rec-  ognize  from  what  quarter  it  blew?  How  could  he  know  day  from  dark-  ness,  with  all  that  bulk  of  earth  be-  tween  him  and  the  sun?  When  he  questioned  his  attendants  they  looked  blankly  at  him,  blankly  at  each  other,  and  said  the  bayberry  candles  were  regularly  lit  at  sundown.  When  he  asked  the  leading  fiddler,  who  enjoyed  conversation  and  had  never  made  himself  invisible,  he  was  told  &quot;Rabbit  holes.&quot;  And  by  degrees  he  gave  up  the  problem,  and  was  grateful  for  the  light  that  drifted  in  like  a  mist  and  need  not  be  accounted  for.  Whenever  the  fairies  trooped  off  on  a  raiding  excursion  into  the  outer  world,  he  wandered  about  the  halls  and  corridors  of  Foxcastle,  almost  and  never  quite  familiarizing  himself  with  its  layout.  For  instance,  he  never  dis-  covered  how  the  fairies  quitted  it.  Quit  it  they  certainly  did,  since  they  came  back  with  spoils  Perhaps  theyused  some  watery  stair.  The  hill  was  veined  with  springs;  some  were  tapped  for  the  water  supply,  others  only  existed  as  a  commerce  of  voices  at  a  distance.  When  he  was  left  alone,  he  could  hear  them  quite  plainly.  But  this  was  only  possible  when  he  was  alone.  The  raid-  ers  came  back,  the  silence  was  painted  by  their  gay  glittering  voices,  they  were  extremely  hungry,  they  had  tricked  all  the  mortals  they  had  met.  Fingering  his  watch,  that  old  harmless  acquaintance,  he  sat  listening  to  their  brag,  and  admired  the  faithful  traditionalism  with  which  they  recounted  exploits  well  known  to  him  before  ever  he  met  a  fairy:  Mungo's  mother  gaping  into  her  churn,  the  elf  bolt  spanged  off  an  invisible  thumb  that  knocked  the  peddler  senseless  as  he  made  off  with  his  load  of  thorn-  tree  wood,  the  girl  laid  on  her  back  in  the  greenwood.  &quot;Burd  Janet&quot;  was  one  of  the  ballads  he  had  fallen  asleep  to.  But  Janet's  babe  had  been  fathered  by  Tam  Lin,  who  was  a  stolen  mortal  like  himself,  and  so  uneasy  lest  at  the  end  of  his  seven  years  in  fairyland  he  should  be  picked  as  the  teind  to  hell  that  he  invoked  the  girl  to  lie  in  wait  and  snatch  him  out  ofthe  Queen's  retinue.  He  himself  was  safe  from  such  a  rescue,  since  no  one  in  the  outer  world  had  loved  him  enough  to  snatch  him  back  to  it.  Falling  into  dreamless  sleep  in  his  bed  of  fern,  waking  to  the  splash  and     gurgle  of  the  running  water,  opening  his  eyes  to  the  brooding  dusk  of  the  stone  roof,  it  was  inconceivable  that  he  had  lain  there  unreconciled  and  heard  his  shout  of  despair  re\xc3\xa9choing  from  the  vault  overhead.  A  fuss  about  noth-  ing,  a  midge-bite  madness,  a  fit  of  the  tantrums.  For  by  the  simple  act  of  dis-  carding  his  fetters  and  walking  up  a  winding  stair  he  had  attained  the  wish  of  his  heart.  Watching  these  happy  beings  for  whom  weeping  was  impos-  sible,  he  had  become  incapable  of  grief;  watching  their  inconsistencies  he  had  become  incapable  of  knowing  right  from  wrong;  disregarded  by  them  he  had  become  incapable  of  disappoint-  ment.  Alone  or  in  their  company,  lis-  tening  to  music  or  to  silence,  he  lived  in  a  perpetual  present-like  the  Queen  with  her  knitting,  each  stitch  the  stitch  of  the  moment.  It  was  her  custom  to  appear  every  evening  and  knit  publicly,  as  she  had  done  the  first  time  he  saw  her.  He  had  then  supposed  that  the  business  of  the  skein  of  wool  wound  off  the  supporting  hands  of  a  kneeling  courtier  was  a  for-  mality  of  etiquette,  like  his  approach-  ing  bows  and  the  tooting  trumpeters.  Afterward  he  learned  that  it  was  a  signal  mark  offavor,  and  rarely  bestowed,  Like  all  etiquettes,  it  was  thought  slightly  funny  and  viewed  with  great  respect.  On  the  evening  when  she  beckoned  to  him  he  was  so  far  from  expecting  it  that  he  had  to  be  nudged  by  a  stander-by  before  he  real-  ized  what  was  happening.  Remem-  bering  to  bow  and  feeling  painfully  aware  of  his  dis-  proportionate  size,  he  made  the  long  journey  toward  her  and  crouched  at  her  feet,  holding  out  his  hands  like  a  suppliant.  Out  of  her  knit-  ting  bag  she  drew  a  ball  of  wool  and  two  needles.  &quot;At-  tend,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;This  con-  cerns  you.  I  cast  on  seven  stitches.  T  wo  plain,  two  purl,  two  plain,  one  purl.  And  re-  verse.  One  plain,  two  purl,  two  plain,  two  purl.  And  reverse.  Two  plain,  two  purl,  two  plain  ..  .&quot;  She  knitted  slowly  and  firmly.  Al-  ready  he  saw  the  rib  emerging.  &quot;And  one  purl.  And  break  off.&quot;  She  bit  through  the  thread.  A  squadron  of  flying  fairies  swooped  down,  seized  hold  of  him,  bore  him  up  and  away.  He  was  shoved  and  squeezed  through  a  twisting  crevice  into  the  outer  world.  A  couple  of  sheep  took  fright  and  galloped  off,  their  hoofs  drumming  on  the  shallow  turf.  The  hill  had  been  fired,  nothing  remained  of  the  heather  except  a  few  charred  stumps.  He  would  not  have  known  where  he  was  except  for  the  peat  hags  and  the  hurry-  ing  burn  in  the  valley.  He  watched  the  blood  congeal  on  his  leg,  and  his  con-  sciousness  wandered  over  his  body  from  one  ache  to  another.  The  aches  were  specific;  they  corresponded  with  the  bruises,  the  scratches,  the  punctures  of  being  forced  through  an  exit  much  too  narrow  for  him.  But  there  was  a  further  ache,  an  underlying  discom-  fort  which  corresponded  with  nothing  and  existed  totally:  an  ache  of  weari-  ness,  of  bodily  mistrust.  &quot;Castrum  ...  a  fortified  enclosure.&quot;  It  was  a  mortal  voice,  the  voice  of  a  person  of  culture!  He  sprang  up-  and  almost  fell  over.  His  legs  were  tot,  tering,  he  had  lost  his  sense  of  balance.  He  had  become  an  old  man.  The  speaker  was  quite  close.  He  was  dressed  in  black,  he  wore  a  voluminous  white  neckcloth,  he  carried  a  most  pe-  culiar  hat  in  a  gloved  hand.  He  had  spoken  to  a  group  of  ladies,  who  were  even  more  oddly  dressed  than  he,  wearing  white  shifts  down  to  the  ground.  Their  waists  were  under  their  arms,  the  shifts  fluttered  in  the  wind  and  showed  the  shape  of  their  legs.  A  couple  of  young  men  made  up  the  party;  they,  too,  had  waists  under  their  arms,  and  a  general  resemblance  to  clothes  pegs.  But  all  these  were  mor-  tals.  He  staggered  toward  them,  mak-  ing  noises.  He  had  lived  so  long  with  fairies  he  had  forgotten  his  native  speech;  he  could  only  gibber  and  stammer.  When  they  turned  to  look  at  him,  he  realized  that  he  was  in  rags  and  half  naked.  The  ladies  started  back.  The  young  men  stepped  forward  defensively.  &quot;Do  not  be  alarmed,  do  not  be  alarmed!  He  is  merely  one  of  our  half-  wits,  too  common  in  these  days-poor  unfortunate  creatures,  allowed  to  stray  about  for  their  living.  But  harmless.  Our  country  people  call  them  Inno-  cents.  Lucus  a  non  lucendo:  innocence  is  a  quality  of  rational  beings.  Leave  me  to  deal  with  him.&quot;  He  turned  to  James  Sutherland.  &quot;Go  away,  my  poor  fellow!  Here  is  a  guinea,  to  buy  yourself  better  clothing  before  the  winter  finds  you  out.&quot;  The  ladies  were  making  a  little  collection  amongst  themselves.  Now  one  came  forward  with  it,  her  eyes  averted.  He  stared  at  her.  Words  were  com-  ing  back  to  him.  &quot;Take  it,  take  it,&quot;  said  the  gentle-  man.  &quot;Go  away,  and  be  grateful.&quot;  "