 b"THERE  was  a  preliminary  puff-  ing  over  the  intercom,  as  if  the  pilot,  even  at  that  height,  were  trying  to  rid  his  microphone  of  some  of  the  omnipresent  dust  of  Africa.  Then  he  announced,  &quot;Over  on  the  left  is  a  clear  view  of  the  snow-covered  peaks  of  43616e616461Kilimanjaro,  highest  mountain  on  the  continent,  nineteen  thousand  feet  above  sea  level.&quot;  Fellowes  thought,  We'll  be  in  Nai-  robi  soon.  As  though  averting  his  gaze  from  this  prospect,  he  turned  and  stared  out  the  window.Between  two  floating  cliffs  of  cumulus,  he  saw  the  vast,  shaggy  bulk  of  the  mountain  ris-  ing  above  plains  already  smudged  with  dusk.  He  lifted  his  gaze,  and  there,  almost  on  a  level  with  him  and  sur-  prising  as  ever,  was  the  gleaming  cape  of  snow  flung  over  the  mountain's  shoulders  round  the  central  crater.  And  yet  he  could  discover  no  feeling  of  being  moved  by  the  sight  as  he  used  to  be.  Well,  he  was  no  longer  a  young  man,  and  all  that  Africa  mystique  be-  longed  to  his  youth.  He  did  not  re-  gret  theold  Africa's  passing-if  it  had  passed-and  the  change  from  white  hunters  and  witch  doctors  to  develop-  ment  experts  and  &quot;charismatic''  lead-  ers.  Undeterred  by  the  foreboding  of  his  fellow-whites  and  fellow  [REDACTED]  Af-  ricans,  he  approved  the  change,  had  even  worked  for  it  in  his  own  sphere  of  journalism.  But  that  was  hardly  the  sort  of  thing  one  could  explain  to  im-  migration  officials.  He  turned  back  to  his  flight  com-  panion,  asoap  merchant  from  Bom-  bay.  &quot;You  still  selling  as  much  soap  as  ever  since  the  Africans  took  over?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  more  than  ever,  my  dear  sir!&quot;  the  merchant  said  enthusiastical-  ly.  &quot;For  twenty-five  years  they  have  known  our  soap,  and  sales  are  still  in-  creasing  most  satisfactorily.  It  is  well  worth  my  odyssey  to  East  Africa  and  the  Horn  every  year.&quot;  The  African  air  hostess  went  past,  carrying  trays,  clattering  in  her  ob-  vious  hurry,  not  caring  much  now  to  keep  up  the  schooled  poise  and  coolness  that  had  been  so  impressive  at  thebe-  ginning  of  the  flight,  when  they  left  Dar  es  Salaam.  The  Indian  beside  him  giggled.  &quot;It  is  a  race  tosee  if  we  get  to  4b656e7961  before  our  young  lady  gets  the  dinner  trays  back  to  her  pantry.&quot;  For  some  reason,  Fellowes  felt  de-  fensive.  &quot;They  didpretty  well  between  them,  she  and  the  steward,&quot;  he  said.   &quot;It's  asmall  plane,  but  there  are  forty  of  us.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  true,  true.  But  perhaps  shehas  still  to  develop  the  full  expertise  of  the  lovely  girls  on  British  Airways  and  Air-India.&quot;  Fellowes  watched  the  girl  dash  out  again,  a  small  sauce  stain  on  her  white  blouse  and  a  little  strip  of  paper  napkin  clinging  to  her  straightened  black  hair.  She  zigzagged  backup  the  aisle  with  her  last  two  trays,  struggled  to  squeeze  them  into  the  stainless-steel  cupboards  and  close  the  doors.  Then  she  made  a  desperate  grab  for  the  intercom  micro-  phone.  Her  blurred  contralto  came  over  to  them  breathlessly:  &quot;We  will  soon  be  landing  at  4b656e7961  Airport.  Please  to  fasten  your  seat  belts.  Please  also  to  extinguish  your  cigarettes.&quot;  Pretty  near  the  moment  of  truth  now,  Fellowes  thought.  He  had  no  visa  for  4b656e7961.  He  slipped  his  hand  into  his  pocket  and  touched  his  [REDACTED]  African  passport.  Not  the  most  popular  passport  in  Africa.  The  few  countries  that  would  give  a  visa  on  it  did  so  after  God  knew  how  much  negotiation-and  he'd  not  had  time  for  that.  He  could  have  travelled  on  a  British  passport,  but  why  should  he  pretend  to  the  new  black  rulers  of  Africa  to  be  other  than  what  he  was?  A  touch  of  the  old  white  arrogance  in  that!?  A  beggar  displaying  his  sores?  He  grimaced  hu-  morlessly  into  the  window  at  his  reflection  with  the  night  coming  up  behind  it.  It  was  dark  when  they  climbed  down  onto  4b656e7961  Airport.  Rain  had  fallen,  but  the  air  was  still  warm,  as  if  the  earth  around  them  were  feverish.  Images  from  the  lighted  reception  buildings  snaked  toward  them  over  the  darkly  glistening  run-  way.  Fellowes  trailed  behind  the  other  passengers.  If  there  was  any  difficulty,  he  would  rather  not  have  a  crowd  looking  on.  A  faint  steam  arising  from  the  tarmac  touched  his  throat  and,  it  seemed,  his  memory.  He  had  first  landed  at  this  airport  at  the  time  of  the  Mau  Mau.  There  had  been  barbed  wire  everywhere;  white  and  black  moved  warily  round  one  an-  other,  as  though  each  indi-  vidual  were  caged  in  bars  against  which  a  raging  ani-  mal  might  suddenly  hurl  it-  self.  Now  he  moved  past  big  shadowy  jets  being  refuelled  " b"by  dimly  lit  tankers;  in  the  night,  Indian,  Af-  rican,  and  white  got  on  with  their  jobs  in  an  easy,  neutral  techno-  logical  association.  Emerging  into  the  lighted  immigration  hall,  he  was  surprised  to  find  their  own  air  hostess  controlling  the  flow  of  passengers  to  the  officials.  In  uni-  form  hat  and  tunic  jacket-he  was  sure  she  was  the  same  girl-  she  had  recaptured  her  poise.  The  balance  of  her  head  was  so  good  that  he  felt  she  must  have  carried  loads  on  it  as  a  child.  What  was  she-Luo,  Kikuyu,  Wakamba,  possibly  even  Masai?  What  did  it  matter?  She  was  in  the  new  times  now,  mod-  elled  probably  on  those  &quot;lovely  girls  on  British  Airways.&quot;  That's  what  it  had  all  been  about,  hadn't  it?  To  enter  the  modern  world,  to  be  among  the  girls  in  saris,  the  girls  in  blue  uniforms,  and  join  the  long  journey  to  wherever  they  were  all  going.  He  looked  beyond  her.  Two  immi-  gration  officers  sat  at  their  desks,  thumping  stamps  on  passports  with  morose  bureaucratic  violence.  One  was  a  dark-suited  African  with  a  triangular  face,  rather  like  a  praying  mantis.  The  other  was  an  Asian,  in  a  Sikh's  turban.  He  had  a  sensitive,  plump  brown  face,  wary  brown  eyes,  and  close  curly  black  whiskers  running  round  from  his  tem-  ples  to  his  chin.  This  was  his  man,  Fel-  lowes  decided.  As  a  member  of  one  minority  group  in  a  difficult  position  in  Africa,  this  Indian  would  have-ought  to  have-some  sympathy  with  a  mem-  ber  of  another  When  he  was  second  last  in  the  queue,  he  wondered  if  he  should  say  to  the  air  hostess,  &quot;Get  me  to  the  In-  dian.&quot;  But  she  might  misunderstand  that.  Perhaps  his  face  showed  some  anxiety,  because  the  girl  looked  at  him,  relaxed  from  her  official  detachment  for  a  moment,  smiled,  and  said,  &quot;Soon  finished  now.&quot;  The  Indian  dismissed  the  passenger  at  his  desk,  and  she  add-  ed,  &quot;Go  to  that  officer,  please.&quot;  Fellowes  went  forward,  dragging  his  heavy  briefcase,  a  rumpled  rain-  coat,  and  an  awkward  bundle  of  news-  papers  that  looked  as  if  it  might  con-  ceal  a  goat.  He  could  almost  see  his  approach  through  the  eyes  of  the  im-  migration  officer:  sallow  (anti-malaria  pills  always  turned  him  slightly  yel-  low),  stubble-bearded,  square,  middle-  aged,  lank  hair  hanging  over  forehead,  Swedish  sweatshirt  hanging  out  over  trousers;  shambling  forward,  a  born  victim.  But  the  Indian  immigration  officer  only  looked  up  briefly  as  the  passport  was  handed  over.  &quot;[REDACTED]  African,&quot;  he  said  remotely,  and  settled  down  to  study  the  document.  He  read  it  through  from  beginning  to  end,  with  close  at-  tention.  Then  he  flipped  back  to  the  beginning  again  and  began  a  closer  study.  This  time,  discontent  began  to  gather  on  his  face.  Finally,  he  laid  the  passport  down  and  stared  at  Fellowes.  &quot;But,  my  God,  man!&quot;  he  said  in  a  shocked  voice.  &quot;You  got  no  visa!&quot;  &quot;A  visa?&quot;  Fellowes  asked,  with  a  surprise  that  hardly  convinced  himself.  &quot;Yes,  a  visa,  a  visa,&quot;  the  Indian  re-  peated  impatiently.  &quot;Don't  tell  me  you  never  heard  of  visa.  Here  you  have  book  full  of  visas  to  other  countries.  But  to  4b656e7961  you  come  with  no  visa.  4b656e7961  is  not  like  any  other  country.  How  you  explain  that?&quot;  &quot;But  I'm  only  making  a  transit  stop  to  catch  another  connection.&quot;  &quot;You  are  on  4b656e7961  territory.  Here  are  explicit  instructions  from  govern- ment-no  [REDACTED]  African  permitted  to  enter  4b656e7961,  even  one  inch,  one  min-  ute,  without  previously  granted  visa  by  appropriate  authority  before  coming  to  country.  No  circumstance  is  [REDACTED]  African  passenger  without  proper  docu-  ment  to  proceed  farther.  That  is  very  clear.&quot;  &quot;I'm  sorry.  Nobody  told  me.&quot;  The  Indian  seemed  unable  to  believe  his  ears.  &quot;My  God,  man-what  sort  of  fool  you  are?  Waiting  to  be  told!  You  look  like  grown  man  to  me.  Be-  fore  you  come  to  country,  you  find  out,  make  it  business  to  findout.  We  are  not  sending  people  to  [REDACTED]  Africa  asking  who  is  coming  to  country,  who  is  not,  giving  immigration  information  for  all  prospective  visitor.  Perhaps  you  do  not  think  we  have  regulation?&quot;  &quot;They  gave  me  to  understand  in  the  ticket  office  at  Dar  no  visa  would  be  required.&quot;  &quot;I  am  not  responsible  for  what  un-  derstandings  you  make  with  ticket  peo-  ple  at  Dar.&quot;  &quot;But  where  else  .  ..?  &quot;Where?  Do  not  ask  me,  man.  That's  for  you  to  find  out.  You  look  educated  man.  You  know  this  is  in-  dependent  country  with  own  rules,  own  instructions,  own  government.  No  more  lordly  coming  and  going,  asin  colony.  That  is  finish,  gone.  Now  is  all-powerful  government  making  regu- " b"lations  for  everybody-and  [REDACTED]  Af-  ricans  like  everybody  else.&quot;  As  he  finished,  the  Indian  shifted  his  gaze  to  stare  past  Fellowes  in  brief  calculation;  then  he  looked  back  at  him  as  severely  as  before.  Fellowes  remembered  that  behind  himwas  a  little  audience  of  the  scene-another  passenger,  the  air  hostess,  a  couple  of  porters,  another  attendant  in  uniform.  Dear  God,  what  a  fool  he'd  been  to  think  the  Indian  would  be  more  kindly  disposed.  Instead,  here  the  man  was  demonstrating  to  his  African  masters  that  he  could  bring  down  a  white  man's  dignity  better  than  any  of  them.  Fellowes  said  in  a  low,  almost  placa-  tory  voice,  &quot;I  did  try  to  get  information.  I  seem  to  have  been  misinformed.&quot;  But  this  soft  answer  found  no  echo.  The  Indian's  voice  became  louder,  more  severe.  &quot;Getting  correct  informa-  tion-that  is  your  responsibility.  My  responsibility  is  carry  out  my  govern-  ment's  instructions.  All  [REDACTED]  Africans  must  have  visa  before  coming  here.  No  visa,  then  go  back  where  they  come  from.  Back  to  port  of  embarkation.  Next  plane.  Out!&quot;  &quot;But  surely-&quot;  The  Indian  crashed  his  fist  down  on  the  desk.  &quot;No,  no,  I'm  not  listening.  I'm  very  busy.  Back  to  Dar  es  Salaam.  Back!  Back!&quot;  he  cried  wildly.  Fellowes  felt  alarmed.  At  Dar,  they  had  given  him  a  visa  to  enter  [REDACTED]  very  reluctantly,  only  for  a  week.  He  saw  himself  sent  from  4b656e7961  back  to  Dar,  from  Dar  back  to  4b656e7961,  immi-  gration  officers  at  each  end  locked  in  a  struggle  of  wills,  yelling  &quot;Back!  Back!&quot;  He  looked  round  with  some  desper-  ate  ideaof  seeking  help,  making  an  appeal.  The  air  hostess  stood  slightly  to  one  side,  withdrawn,  as  if  she  were  patiently  waiting  for  somebody  else  to  come  along.  The  porters  had  sim-  ply  stayed  where  they  were  when  they  suspended  operations.  The  man  in  uniform  seemed  only  pcrfunctonly  in-  terested  in  whatwas  going  on,  and  the  African  immigration  officer  was  busy  with  papers.  Fellowes  turned  to  the  Indian.  &quot;Isn't  there  some  authority  I  could  -&quot;  He  broke  off,  startled  at  the  ex-  pression  of  fury  on  the  face  of  the  man  opposite  him.  'The  Indian  had  pushed  himself  away  from  the  desk  and  was  glaring  at  Fellowes  passionately.  &quot;Authority!&quot;  he  snapped.  &quot;What  is  this  authority  you  want?  Where  is  it?&quot;  Fellowes  felt  himself  becoming  flustered.  &quot;I  only  meant  if  I  could  appeal  to  some  authority-&quot;  &quot;Authority!&quot;  the  Indian  shouted.  He  leaped  up  from  behind  his  desk  and stabbed  himself  in  the  chest  with  his  forefinger.  &quot;I  am  authority!&quot;  They  stood  there  in  a  yellow-lighted  silence,  marooned  in  its  stark  illumina-  tion  like  two  people  held  in  a  stage  spotlight.  Then  the  Indian  made  a  quick  in-  clusive  gesture  toward  his  fellow  im-  migration  officer-possibly  he  felt  he  had  claimed  too  much  for  himself  alone.  &quot;I,  and  this  officer  here.  We  are  authority.  We  say  what  happens  to  you.  Only  us.&quot;  The  African  looked  up  briefly  and  returned  to  his  papers.  This  reaction  seemed  to  disappoint  the  Indian  in  some  minimal  way.  He  concentrated  on  Fellowes  again.  &quot;My  God,  man-what  more  authority  you  want?  Some  special  authority  for  you  only?  You  tell  me  that!&quot;  &quot;I  only  ...&quot;  Fellowes  began,  and  stopped.  He  felt  exhausted.  He  was  now  in  some  hostile  country  ofthe  mind  where  menace  might  lie  in  any-  thing;  anything  said  might  add  ob-  scure  insult  to  obscurer  provocation.  There  was  a  little  movement  behind  him.  The  air  hostess  shifting  from  foot  to  foot-preparing  to  go,  Fellowes  thought  bitterly.  Why  had  she  stayed?  To  see  what  became  of  him?  He,  too,  began  to  feel  obscurely  offended.  How  could  she  stand  there  saying  nothing?  The  Indian  was  at  him  again.  &quot;Yes!  Yes?  You  only  ...?  You  only  what?&quot;  &quot;Nothing!&quot;  Fellowes  said  sullenly.  The  Indian  leaned  across  the  desk  and  spoke  with  great  deliberation.  &quot;I  tell  you  what  you  only.  I  know  you  whites-you  people  from  [REDACTED]  Afri-  ca-how  you  think.  You  come  in  here,  you  see  me,  Asian;  over  there,  Afri-  can.  You  say  such  people  cannot  be  in  charge.  They  are  not  real  people.  They  are  not  real  authority.  No,  no.  There  must  be  some  white  man,  behind  in  some  office.  He  is  authority.  He  will  fix  me  up-another  white.  That's  what  you  only  thought.&quot;  He  glanced  at  his  African  colleague,  as  if  expecting  a  nod  of  confirmation,  Fellowes  was  stung-half  distressed,  half  indignant.  He  said  sharply,  &quot;I  thought  nothing  of  the  kind.&quot;  But  the  Indian  seemed  almost  ec-  statically  triumphant  at  his  insight.  &quot;Yes,  yes,  you  did!  I  see  you  did!&quot;  he  cried.  He  picked  up  the  passport  and  waved  it.  &quot;You  come  here  bringing  this-this  most  useless  travel  docu-  ment  in  Africa,  in  world-whole  world,  yes.  You  take  a  chance.  You  cannot  believe  it's  just  us  here  now-  " b"Asians,  Africans.  Somewhere  behind  must  be  some  white  man,  holding  our  hands,  organizing.  You  think,  He  will  fix  me  up,  see  me  right.&quot;  He  flung  the  passport  down  on  the  desk  again.  It  slithered  across,  just  stopping  at  the  edge.  Fellowes'  exasperation  became  al-  most  ungovernable.  He  wanted  to  shout,  &quot;Look  at  that  passportagain,  you  bloody  idiot!  See  how  many  Afri-  can  countries  I've  visited!&quot;  But  his  self-  control  asserted  itself,  and  he  said,  a  little  hoarsely,  &quot;No,  you're  wrong,  quite  wrong.&quot;  Standing  before  the  desk,  he  felt  like  a  prisoner  awaiting  sentence.  The  Indian  bit  his  lips,  apparently  weighing  unpleasant  courses  of  action.  On  the  other  side  of  the  glass  partition  behind  him  the  main  halls  could  be  seen,  empty  of  passengers.  Porters,  air-  line  officials,  a  couple  of  policemen  stood  about  in  some  evening  desolation  of  their  own.  A  pause  had  come  into  ex-  istence,  which  grew  longer  and  longer.  It  was  interrupted  by  a  sharp,  thin  sound.  For  a  moment,  Fellowes  thought  that  somebody  behind  him     had  sucked  too  hard  on  a  tooth.  But  an  extraordinary  change  came  over  the  Indian's  face.  His  stony  brown  eyes  became  suddenly  vulnerable,  turned  anxious  and  hurt.  Then  Fellowes  rec-  ognized  the  sound.  It  must  have  come  from  the  air  hostess.  It  was  the  slightly  sipping,  tongue-clicking  gesture  of  dis-  approval,  impatience,  or  boredom  that  any  African  woman  uses  from  4b656e7961  to  the  [REDACTED].  The  immigration  officer  had  got  his  audience  reaction.  He  seemed  tosag.  He  sat  down  " b"abruptly  and  made  a  weary,  dismissing  gesture  to  Fellowes.  &quot;Stand  aside.  I  have  work  to  finish.&quot;  Fellowes  walked  away  to  what  he  judged  to  bea  neutral  corner,  suspend-  ingboth  hope  and  fear.  He  looked  covertly  at  the  air  hostess.  She  stood  there  with  her  head  averted  from  the  immigration  officer,  looking  down  at  the  ground,  her  lips  pouting  slightly.  The  Indianlooked  toward  her.  &quot;Are  there  any  more?&quot;  he  asked.  It  was  a  rhetorical  question-one  designed  to  fill  a  gap  in  communication  or  re-  lationship.&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  she  saiddistantly.  &quot;I'm  wait-  ing  for  my  last  passenger.&quot;  The  Indian  pulled  some  papers  for-  ward.  He  sat  hunched  over  them  for  about  a  minute.  Nobody  spoke.  The  Indian  did  not  stir  in  his  bleak  medita- tion.  To  Fellowes  he  seemed  more  alone  than  anyone  else  in  the  room,  himself  included.  &quot;You  poor  little  swab!&quot;  he  said  under  his  breath.  &quot;You  poor  little  bastard!&quot;  At  last,  the  officer  reached  out  his  hand  and  pulled  the  passport  to  him,  stamped  it,  wrote  something  in  it,  &quot;I  have  written  you  havebeen  warned,&quot;  he  said  to  Fellowes.  &quot;You  can  go  through.&quot;  &quot;I'm  very  grateful,&quot;  Fellowes  said  humbly,  in  a  low  voice.  The  Indian  took  no  further  notice  of  him.  He  said  to  the  air  hostess,  who  had  moved  up  beside  Fellowes,  &quot;Take  him  to  Transit  Lounge-not  to  move  from  there  until  his  plane  goes.&quot;  He  clicked  his  fingers  at  the  attendant  in  uniform  to  accompany  them.  The  porters  ran  forward  to  pick  up  a Fellowes'  briefcase  and  bundle.  The  uniformed  man  brought  up  the  rear.  The  air  hostess  led  the  way,  took  charge  of  the  party-briskly,  busily,  like  somebody  released  into  proper  action  at  last.  As  they  went  through  customs  and  the  weigh-in  section,  she  stood  be-  hind  the  counter,  watching  Fellowes  with  encouragement,  even  answering  for  him.  At  the  door  of  the  Transit  Lounge,  she  dismissed  their  uniformed  attendant  and  the  porters.  Inside  the  big  room,  containing  shadowy  groups  of  armchairs  and  a  desultory  cluster  of  other  passengers,  she  and  Fellowes  stood  looking  at  one  another  for  a  barren  moment.  They  seemed  suddenly  at  a  loss  asto  how  their  relationship  was  to  continue.  In  the  dim  light  of  the  lounge,  her  eyes  were  so  dark  they  were  nearly  color-  less.  The  long  chocolateplanes  of  her  cheeks  had  little  troughs  of  shadow.  &quot;Thanks,&quot;  he  said  lamely.  &quot;Thanks  for  looking  after  me.&quot;  She  replied  gravely,  seeming  not  to  have  heard  his  thanks,  &quot;You  are  going  to  be  here  a  long  time-six,  seven  hours.  The  medical  room  has  a  bed.  I  can  say  you  are  sick  and  you  can  sleep  in  there.&quot;  No,  he  was  not  sick,  and  nobody  had  made  him  sick.  He  would  not  fall  even  a  pretended  victim  to  his  intended  humil-  iition-not  before  anybody.  He  shook  his  head.  &quot;I'm  all  right.  I'll  just  shake  down  in  one  of  the  darker  corners.&quot;  Outside,  in  the  darkness,  there  was  a  stir  of  renewed  activity.  Two  jeeps  went  past  the  windows  and  made  off  across  the  tarmac.  Among  the  heavy  clouds  drifting  about  the  night  sky  was  the  growing  rumor  of  another  aircraft's  approach.  The  air  hostess  began  to  turn  away  from  him,  and  he  could  think  of  noth-  ing  to  say  that  would  detain  her.  &quot;More  passengers  in  soon,&quot;  she  said,  moving  off.  &quot;I  must  get  ready  for  them.&quot;  He  watched  her  walking  unhurriedly  toward  the  reception  desk. "