 b"IN  1999,  space  explorers  discovered  that  within  the  warm,  turbulent,  semi-liquid  immensity  of  [REDACTED]  a  perfectly  pleasant  little  planet  twirled,  with  argon  skies  and  sparkling  seas  of  molten  beryllium.  The  earthlings  who  first  arrived  on  the  shores  of  this  new  world  were  shocked  by  the  unabashed  nakedness  of  the  inhabitants.  Not  only  were  the  inhabitants  naked-their  bod-  ies  cylindrical,  slightly  curved,  and  longitudinally  ridged,  like  white  pick-  les,  with  six  toothpick-thin  limbs  stuck  in  for  purposes  of  locomotion,  and  a  kind  of  tasselled  seventh  concentrating  the  neural  functions-but  there  ap-  peared  to  be  no  sexual  differentiation  among  them.  Indeed,  there  was  none.  Reproduction  took  place  by  an  absen-  tee  process  known  as  &quot;budding,&quot;  and  the  inhabitants  of  Minerva  (so  the  planet  was  dubbed,  by  a  classics-mind-  ed  official  of  the  Sino-American  Space  Agency)  thought  nothing  of  it.  Evi-  dently,  wherever  a  mathematical  suffi-  ciency  of  overlapping  footsteps  (or  jabs,  for  their  locomotion  left  marks  rather  like  those  of  ski  poles  in  crusty  snow)  impressed  the  porous  soil  of  in-  termingled  nickel  and  asbestos,  a  new  pickleoid  form  slowly  sprouted,  or  &quot;budded.&quot;  Devoid  both  of  parentage  and  of  progenitive  desires,  this  new  creature,  when  the  three  Minervan  years  (five  of  our  weeks)  of  its  mat-  uration  period  brought  it  to  full  size  (approximately  eighteen  of  our  inches),  eagerly  shook  the  nickel  from  its  roots  and  assumed  its  place  in  the  fruit-  ful  routines  of  agriculture,  industry,  trade,  and  government  that  on  Mi-  nerva,  as  on  [REDACTED],  superficially  dom-  inated  life.  The  erotic  interests  of  the  explorers  and,  as  argon-breathing  apparatus  be-  came  perfected,  of  the  ambassadors  and  investigators  and  mercantile  colonists  from  our  own  planet  occasioned  amaze-  ment  and  misunderstanding  among  the  Minervans.  The  early  attempts  at  rape  were  scarcely  more  of  a  success  than  the  later  attempts,  by  some  of  the  new  world's  economically  marginal  natives,  to  prostitute  themselves.  The  lack  of  satisfactory  contact,  however,  did  not  prevent  the  expatriate  earthlings  from  falling  in  love  with  the  Minervans,  producing  the  usual  debris  of  sonnets,  sleepless  nights,  exhaustive  letters,  jeal-  ous  fits,  and  supercharged  dreams.  The  little  pickle-shaped  people,  though  no  Pocahontas  or  Fayaway  emerged  among  them  to  assuage  the  aliens'  wonderful  heat,  were  fascinated:  How  could  the  brief,  mechanical  event  described  (not sounlike,  the  scientists  among  them  observed,  the  accidental  preparation  of  their  own  ground  for  &quot;budding&quot;  )  gen-  erate  such  giant  expenditures  of  neural  energy?  &quot;We  live  for  love,&quot;  they  were  assured.  &quot;Our  spaceships,  our  sky-  scrapers,  our  stock  markets  are  butde-  flections  of  this  basic  drive.  Our  clothes,  our  meals,  our  arts,  our  modes  of  trans-  portation,  even  our  wars,  are  made  to  serve  the  cause  of  love.  An  earthling  infant  takes  in  love  with  his  first  suck,  and  his  dying  gasp  is  clouded  by  this  passion.  All  else  is  sham,  disguise,  and  make-work.&quot;  The  human  colonies  came  to  include  females.  This  subspecies  was  softer  and  more  bulbous,  its  aggressions  more  in-  tricate  and  its  aura  more  complacent;  the  Minervans  never  overcame  their  distaste  for  women,  who  seemed  bone-  less  and  odorous  and  parasitic  after  the  splendid  first  impression  made  by  the  early  space  explorers  carapaced  inflash-  ing  sheets  of  aluminum  foil,  These  fe-  males  even  more  strongly  paid  homage  to  the  power  of  love:  &quot;For  one  true  moment  of  it,  a  life  is  well  lost.  Give  us  love,  or  give  us  death.  Our  dying  is  but  a  fleck  within  the  continuous,  over-  arching  supremacy  of  eros.  Love  moves  the  stars,  which  you  cannot  see.  It  moves  the  birds,  which  you  do  not  have,  to  song.&quot;  The  Minervans  were  dumbfounded;  they  could  imagine  no  force,  no  presence  beneath  their  swirl-  ing,  argon-bright  skies,  more  absolute  than  death-for  which  the  word  in  their  language  was  the  same  as  for  &quot;silence.&quot;  Then  the  human  females,  disagree-  ably  and  characteristically,  would  turn  the  tables  of  curiosity.  &quot;And  you?&quot;  they  would  ask  their  little  naked  audi-  tors.  &quot;What  is  it  that  makes  you  tick?  Tell  us.  There  must  be  something  hid-  den,  or  else  Freud  was  a  local  oracle.  Tell  us,  what  do  you  dream  of,  when  your  six  eyes  shut?&quot;  And  a  blue-green  blush  would  steal  over  the  warty,  ridged,  colorless  epiderms  of  the  Mi-  nervans,  and  they  would  titter  and  rustle  like  a  patch  of  artichokes,  and  on  their  slender  stiff  limbs  scamper  away,  and  not  emerge  from  their  elaborate  burrows  until  the  concealment  of  night-night,  to  earthling  senses,  as  rapid  and  recurrent  as  the  blinking  of  an  eyelid.  HE  first  clue  arose  from  the  son-  nets  the  lovelorn  spacemen  used  to  recite.  Though  the  words,  however  translated,  came  out  as  nonsense,  the  recitation  itself  held  the  Minervans'  in-  terest,  and  seemed  toexcite  them  with  its  rhythms.  Students  of  the  pioneer  journals  also  noted  that,  by  more  than  one  account,  before  prostitution  was  abandoned  as  unfeasible  the  would-be  courtesans  offered  from  out  of  the  depths  of  themselves  a  shy,  strangulat-  " b"ed  crooning,  a  sort  of  pitch-speech  an-  alogous  to  Chinese.  Then  robot  tele-  viewers  were  sufficiently  miniaturized  to  maneuver  through  the  Minervans'  elaborate  burrows.  Among  the  dim,  shaky  images  beamed  back  from  un-  derground  (the  static  from  the  nickel  was  terrific)  were  some  of  rods  ar-  ranged  roughly  in  sequence  of  size,  and  of  other  rods,  possibly  hollow,  flared  at  one  end  or  laterally  punctured.  The  televiewer  had  stumbled,  it  turned  out,  upon  an  unguarded  brothel;  the  ob-  jects  were,  of  course,  crude  Minervan  equivalents  of  xylophones,  trumpets,  and  flutes.  The  ultimate  reaches  of  many  private  burrows  contained  simi-  lar  objects,  discreetly  tucked  where  the  newly  budded  would  not  find  them,  as  well  as  proto-harps,  quasi-violins,  and  certain  constructions  percussive  in  pur-  pose.  When  the  crawling  televiewers  were  fitted  with  audio  components,  the  domestic  tunnels,  and  even  some  cham-  bers  of  the  commercial  complexes,  were  revealed  as  teeming  with  a  constant,  furtive  music-a  concept  for  which  the  only  Minervan  word  seemed  to  be  the  same  as  their  word  for  &quot;life.&quot;  Concurrent  with  these  discoveries,  a  team  of  SASA  alienists  had  persuaded  a  number  of  Minervans  to  submit  to  psychoanalysis.  The  pattern  of  dream-  work,  with  its  loaded  symbolization  of  ladders,  valves,  sine  curves,  and  hollow,  polished  forms,  as  well  as  the  subjects'  tendency  under  drugs  to  de-  form  their  speech  with  melodious  slip-  page,  and  the  critical  case  of  one  Mi-  nervan  (nicknamed  by  the  psychiatric  staff  Dora)  who  suffered  from  the  ob-  sessive  malady  known  as  &quot;humming,&quot;  pointed  to  the  same  conclusion  as  the  televiewers'  visual  evidence:  the  Mi-  nervans  on  their  sexless,  muffled  planet  lived  for  music,  of  which  they  had  only  the  most  primitive  inkling.  In  the  exploitative  rush  that  fol-  lowed  this  insight,  tons  of  nickel  were  traded  for  asong.  Spies  were  enlisted  in  the  [REDACTED]'s  service  for  the  bribe  of  a  plastic  harmonica;  entire  cabinets  and  corporation  boards  were  corrupted  by  the  promise  ofa  glimpse  of  a  clarinet-  fingering  diagram,  or  by  the  playing  of  an  old  78-r.p.m.  &quot;Muskrat  Ram-  ble.&quot;  At  the  first  public  broadcast  of  a  symphony,  Brahms'  Fourth  in  E  Mi-  nor,  the  audience  of  Minervans  went  into  convulsions  of  ecstasy  as  the  strings  yielded  the  theme  to  the  oboe,  and  would  doubtless  have  perished  en  masse  had  not  the  sound  engineer  mercifully  lifted  the  needle  and  switched  to  the  Fred  Waring  arrangement  of  &quot;Amer-  ican  Patrol.&quot;  Even  so,  many  Miner-  vans,  in  that  epoch  ofviolated  inno-  cence,  died  of  musical  overdose,  and  many  more  wrote  confessional  articles,  formed  liberational  political  parties,  and  engaged,  with  sometimes  disappointing  results,  in  group  listening.  What  music  meant  to  the  Miner-  vans,  it  was  beyond  the  ken  of  earth-  lings  to  understand.  'That  repetitive  mix  of  thuds,  squeaks,  and  tintinnabu-  lation,  an  art  so  mechanical  that  Mo-  zart  could  scribble  off  some  of  the  best  between  billiard  shots,  seemed  perhaps  to  them  a  vibration  implying  all  vibra-  tions,  a  resolution  of  the  most  inward,  existential  antagonisms,  asynthesizing  interface-it  has  been  suggested-be-  tween  the  nonconductivity  of  their  as-  bestos  earth  and  the  high  conductivity  of  their  argon  sky.  There  remained  about  the  Minervans'  musicality,  even  after  it  had  been  thoroughly  exploited  and  rapaciously  enlarged,  something  fastidious,  balanced,  and  wary.  A  con-  fused  ancient  myth  gave  music  the  res-  onance  of  the  forbidden.  In  their  Heaven,  a  place  described  as  mercifully  dark,  music  occurred  without  instru-  ments,  as  it  were  inaudibly.  An  elderly  Minervan,  wishing  to  memorialize  his  life,  would  remember  it  almost  exclu-  sively  in  terms  of  music  he  had  heard,  or  had  made.  HEN  the  first  Minervans  were  rocketed  to  [REDACTED]  (an  odyssey  deserving  its  own  epic:  the  outward  flight  through  the  thousands  of  miles  of  soupy  hydrogen  that  comprised  Ju-  piter's  thick  skull;  the  breakthrough  into  space  and  first  sight  of  the  stars,  the  black  universe;  the  backward  glance  at  the  gaseous  stripes  and  raging  red  spot  dwindling  behind  them;  the  para-  bolic  fall  through  the  solar  system,  wherein  the  Minervans,  dazzled  by  its  brightness,  mistook  Venus  for  their  destination,  their  invaders'  home,  in-  stead  of  the  watery  brown  sphere  that  expanded  beneath  them),  the  visitors  were  shocked  by  the  ubiquitous  public  presence  of  music.  Leaking  from  res-  taurant  walls,  beamed  into  airplanes  as  they  landed  and  automobiles  as  they  crashed,  chiming  from  steeples,  thun-  dering  from  parade  grounds,  tingling  through  apartment  walls,  carried  through  the  streets  in  small  black  boxes,  violating  even  the  peace  of  the  desert  and  the  forest,  where  drive-ins  featured  blue  musical  comedies,  music  at  first  overwhelmed,  then  delighted,  then  dis-  gusted,  and  finally  bored  them.  They  removed  the  ear  stopples  that  had  ini-  tially  guarded  them  from  too  keen  a  dose  of  pleasure;  surfeit  muffled  them;  they  ceased  to  hear.  The  Minervans  had  discovered  impotence.  "