 b"TANHUM  MaxKovEr  buttoned  his  gaberdine  and  twisted  his  ear-  locks  into  curls.  He  wiped  his  feet  on  the  straw  mat  before  the  door,  as  he  had  been  told  to  do.  His  prospec-  tive  father-in-law,  Reb  Bendit  Wald-  man,  often  reminded  him  that  one  could  study  the  Torah  and  serve  the  Almighty  and  still  not  behave  like  an  idle  dreamer.  Reb  Bendit  Waldman  offered  himself  as  an  example.  He  was  everything  at  once-a  scholar,  a  fer-  vent  Chassid  of  the  Sadgora  rabbi  as  well  as  a  successful  lumber  merchant,  a  chess  player,  and  the  proprietor  of  a  water  mill.  There  was  time  for  every-  thing  if  one  wasn't  lazy,  Reb  Bendit  said-even  to  teach  yourself  Russian  and  Polish  and  glance  intoa  news-  paper.  How  his  prospective  father-in-  law  managed  all  this  was  beyond  Tanhum.  Reb  Bendit  never  seemed  to  hurry.  He  had  a  friendly  word  for  ev-  eryone,  even  an  errand  boy  or  servant  girl.  Women  burdened  down  by  a  heavy  spirit  came  to  him  for  advice.  Nor  did  he  neglect  to  visit  the  sick  or-God  forbid-to  escort  a  corpse.  Tanhum  often  resolved  to  be  like  his  prospective  father-in-law,  but  he  simply  couldn't  manage  it.  He  would  grow  absorbed  in  some  sacred  book  and  be-  fore  he  knew  it  half  the  day  had  gone  by.  He  tried  to  maintain  a  proper  ap-  pearance,  but  a  button  would  loosen  and  dangle  by  a  thread  until  it  dropped  off  and  got  lost.  His  boots  were  always  muddied,  his  shirt  collars  frayed.  As  often  as  he  knotted  the  band  of  his  breeches  it  always  came  untied  again.  He  resolved  to  commit  two  pages  of  the  Gemara  to  memory  each  day  so  that  in  three  and  a  half  years  he  might  finish  with  the  Talmud,  but  he  couldn't  manage  even  this.  He  would  become  preoccupied  with  some  Talmudic  con-  troversy  and  linger  over  it  for  weeks  on  end.  The  questions  and  doubts  wouldn't  let  him  rest.  Certainly  there  was  mercy  in  Heaven,  but  why  did  little  children  or  even  dumb  animals  have  to  suffer?  Why  did  man  have  to  end  up  dying,  and  a  steer  under  the  slaughterer's  knife?  Why  had  the  miracles  ceased  and  God's  chosen  peo-  ple  been  forced  to  suffer  exile  for  two  thousand  years?  Tanhum  probed  in  the  Chassidic  lore,  the  cabala  volumes,  the  ancient  philosophy  books.  The  questions  they  raised  in  his  mind  plagued  him  like  flies.  There  were  mornings  when  Tanhum  awoke  with  a  weight  in  his  limbs,  a  pain  in  his  temples,  and  no  urge  at  all  to  study,  pray,  or  even  per-  form  his  ablutions.  Today  was  one  of  those  days.  He  opened  the  Gemara  and  sat  there  for  two  hours  without  turning  a  page.  At  prayer,  he  couldn't  seem  to  grasp  the  meaning  of  the  words.  While  reciting  the  eighteenbenedic-  tions,  he  transposed  the  blessings.  And  it  just  so  happened  that  today  he  was  invited  for  lunch  at  his  prospective  fa-  ther-in-law's.  Reb  Bendit  Waldman's  house  was  constructed  in  such  a  way  that  one  had  to  pass  through  the  kitchen  to  get  to  the  dining  room.  The  kitchen  was  aswarm  with  women-  pro-  spective  mother-in-law,  her  daughters-  in-law,  her  daughters,  including  Tan-  hum's  bride-to-be,  Mira  Fridl.  Even  before  entering  the  house  he  heard  the  racket  and  commotion  inside.  The  women  of  the  house  were  all  noisy  and  inclined  to  laughter,  and  often  there  were  neighbors  present.  The  cooking,  baking,  knitting,  and  needlepoint  went  on  with  a  vengeance,  and  games  of  checkers,  knucklebones,  hide-and-seek,  and  wolf-and-goat  were  played.  On  Chanukkah  they  rendered  chicken  fat;  after  Sukkoth  they  made  coleslaw  and  pickled  cucumbers;  in  the  summers  they  put  up  jam.  A  fire  was  always  kept  going  in  the  stove  and  under  a  tripod.  The  kitchen  smelled  of  chicken  soup,  braised  meat,  cinnamon,  and  saffron.  Cakes  and  cookies  were  baked  for  the  Sabbath  and  holi-  days,  to  go  with  the  roast  geese,  chickens,  and  ducks.  One  day  they  prepared  for  a  circumcision  and  another  day  for  the  ceremony  of  re-  deeming  the  firstborn  son;  now  one  of  the  family  was  becoming  engaged,  and  now  they  all  trouped  off  to  a  wedding.  Tailors  fitted  coats,  cobblers  measured  feet  for  shoes.  At  Reb  Bendit  Waldman's  there  was  ample  occasion  to  have  a  drink  of  cherry  or  sweet  brandy  and  to  nibble  at  an  almond  cookie,  a  babka,  or  a  honey  cake.  If  a  guest  from  another  town  came  to  visit,  half  the  town  sent  over  a  kugel.  Reb  Bendit  made  fun  of  the  women  of  the  house  and  their  ex-  aggerated  sense  of  hospitality,  but  ap-  parently  he,  too,  enjoyed  having  his  house  full  of  people.  Each  time  he  went  to  [REDACTED]  or  Krakow  he  brought  back  all  kinds  of  trinkets  for  the  wom-  en-embroidered  headkerchiefs,  rings,  shawls,  and  pins-and  for  the  boys,  pocketknives,  pens,  gold  embossed  skullcaps,  and  ornate  phylactery  bags.  Apart  from  the  usual  wedding  gifts  a  set  of  the  Talmud,  a  gold  watch,  a  wine  goblet,  a  spice  box,  a  prayer  shawl  with  silver  brocade-Tanhum  had  al-  ready  received  all  kinds  of  other  pres-  ents.  It  wasn't  mere  talk  whenTan-  hum's  former  fellow-students  at  the  Brisk  Yeshiva  said  that  he  had  fallen  into  a  gravy  pot.  His  bride-to-be,  Mira  Fridl,  was  considered  a  beauty,  but  Tanhum  had  not  yet  had  a  good  look  ather.  How  could  he?  During  the  signing  of  the  marriage  contract  the  women's  parlor  was  jammed,  and  in  the  kitchen  Mira  Frid]  was  always  sur-  rounded  by  her  sisters  and  sisters-in-  law.  'The  moment  Tanhum  crossed  the  threshhold  he  lowered  his  eyes.  True,  everyone  had  his  destined  mate;  forty  days  before  he,  Tanhum,  had  been  born  it  had  already  been  decided  that  Mira  Frid}  would  become  his  spouse.  Still,  he  fretted  that  he  wasn't  a  suita-  ble  enough  son-in-law  for  Reb  Bendit  Waldman.  All  the  members  of  the  family  were  jolly,  while  he  was  reti-  cent.  He  wasn't  good  at  business  ot  quick  of  tongue,  not  playful,  not  good  at  games,  unable  to  perform  stunts  or  do  swimming  tricks  in  the  river.  At  twelve  he  already  had  to  take  free  board  at  the  homes  of  strangers  in  the  towns  where  he  was  sent  to  study  at  the  various  yeshivas.  His  father  died  when  Tanhum  was  still  a  child.  His  mother  had  remarried.  Tanhum's  stepfather  was  a  poor  ped-  dler  and  had  six  children  from  a  previous  marriage.  From  childhood  on,  Tan-  hum  went  around  in  rags  and  was  neglected.  He  constantly  berated  himself  for  notpraying  fervently  enough  or  devoting  himself  sufficiently  to  Jewishness,  and  he  warred  eternally  with  evil  thoughts.  This  day,  the  tumult  in  the  kitchen  was  louder  than  ever.  Someone  had  appar-  ently  just  told  ajoke  or  performed  some  antic,  for  the  women  laughed  and  clapped  their  hands.  Usually  when  Tanhum  came  in,  a  respectful  path  was  cleared  for  him,  but  now  he  had  to  push  his  way  through  the  throng.  Who  knows,  maybe  they  were  making  fun  of  him?  The  back  of  his  neck  felt  hot  and  damp.  He  must  be  late,  for  Reb  Bendit  was  already  seated  at  the  table,  with  his  sons  and  sons-in-law,  waiting  for  him  to  appear.  Reb  Bendit,  in  a  flowered  robe,  his  silver-white  beard  combed  into  two  points  and  a  silk  skull-  cap  down  over  his  forehead,  lolled  grandly  in  his  armchair  at  the  head  of     " b"the  table.  The  men  had  apparently  had  a  drink,  for  a  carafe  and  glasses  stood  on  the  table,  along  with  wafers  to  crunch  on.  'The  company  was  in  a  joking  mood.  Reb  Bendit's  eldest  son,  Leibush  Meir,  a  big,  fleshy  fellow  with  a  huge  potbelly  and  a  round  reddish  beard  circling  his  fat  face,  shook  with  laughter.  Yoshe,  a  son-in-law-short  and  round  as  a  barrel  and  with  liquid  black  eyes  and  thick  lips-giggled  into  a  handkerchief.  Another  son-in-law,  Shlomele,  the  wag,  jokester,  and  mimic,  impudently  imitated  someone's  gestures.  Reb  Bendit  asked  Tanhum  amiably,  &quot;You  have  a  gold  watch.  Why  aren't  you  on  time?&quot;  &quot;It  stopped  running.&quot;  You  probably  didn't  wind  it.&quot;  &quot;He  needs  an  alarm  clock,&quot;  Schlo-  mele  jested.  &quot;Well,  go  wash  your  hands,&quot;  and  Reb  Bendit  pointed  to  the  washstand.  While  washing  his  hands  Tanhum  wet  his  sleeves.  There  was  a  towel  hanging  on  therack,  but  he  stood  helplessly  dripping  water  on  the  floor.  He  often  tripped,  caught  his  clothing,  and  bumped  into  things,  and  he  con-  stantly  had  to  be  told  where  to  go  and  what  to  do.  There  was  a  mirror  in  the  dining  room  and  Tanhum  caught  a  glimpse  of  himself-a  stooped  figure  with  sunken  cheeks,  dark  eyes  below  dishevelled  brows,  a  tiny  beard  on  the  tip  of  the  chin,  a  pale  nose,  and  a  pointed  Adam's  apple.  It  took  him  a  few  seconds  to  realize  that  he  was  looking  at  his  reflection.  At  the  table,  Reb  Bendit  praised  the  dish  of  groats  and  asked  the  woman  who  had  pre-  pared  it  what  ingredients  she  had  used.  Leibush  Meir  demanded  a  second  help-  ing  as  usual.  Shlomele  complained  that  he  had  found  only  one  mushroom  in  his  portion.  After  the  soup,  the  conversa-  tion  turned  serious.  Reb  Bendit  had  bought  a  tract  of  forest  in  partnership  with  a  Zamose  merchant,  Reb  Nathan  Vengrover.  The  two  partners  had  fallen  out,  and  Reb  Nathan  had  sum-  moned  Reb  Bendit  to  the  rabbi's  the  following  Saturday  night  for  a  hearing.  Reb  Bendit  complained  to  the  company  at  lunch  that  his  partner  was  totally  lacking  in  common  sense,  a  dolt,  a  ninny,  a  dunderhead.  The  sons  and  sons-in-law  agreed  that  he  was  a  jack-ass.  Tanhum  sat  in  terror.  This  was  evil  talk,  slander,  and  who  knows  what  else!  According  to  the  Gemara,  one  lost  the  world  to  come  for  speaking  so  disrespectfully  of  another  man.  Had  they  forgotten  this  or  did  they  only  pretend  to  forget?  Tanhum  wanted  to  warn  them  that  they  were  violating  the  law:  Thou  shalt  not  go  up  and  down  as  a  talebearer  among  thy  people.  Ac-  cording  to  the  Gemara,  he  should  have  stuffed  up  his  ears  with  the  lobes  soas  not  to  hear,  but  he  couldn't  embarrass  his  prospective  father-in-law  this  way.  He  sank  even  lower  in  his  chair.  Two  women  now  brought  in  the  main  course-a  platter  of  beef  cutlets  and  a  tray  of  roast  chicken  floating  in  sauce.  Tanhum  grimaced.  How  could  one  eat  such  a  repast  on  a  weekday?  Didn't  they  remember  the  destruction  of  the  Temple?  'Tanhum,  are  you  eating  or  sleep-  ing?&quot;  It  was  his  intended,  Mira  Frid,  speaking.  Tanhum  came  to  with  a  start.  He  saw  her  now  forthe  first  time-of  medium  build,  fair,  with  golden  hair  and  blue  eyes,  wearing  a  red  dress.  She  smiled  at  him  mischie-  vously  and  even  winked.  &quot;Which  would  you  prefer-beef  or  chicken?&quot;  Tanhum  wanted  to  answer,  but  the  words  stuck  in  his  throat.  For  some  time  already,  he  had  felt  an  aversion  to  meat.  No  doubt  everything  here  was  strictly  kosher,  but  it  seemed  to  him  that  the  meat  smelled  of  blood  and  that  he  could  hear  the  bellowing  of  the  cow  writhing  beneath  the  slaughterer's  knife.  Reb  Bendit  said,  &quot;Give  him  some  of  each.&quot;  Mira  Fridl  served  a  cutlet  and  then,  with  her  serving  spoon  poised  over  the  platter  of  chicken,  asked,  &quot;Which  would  you  like-the  breast  or  a  leg?&quot;  Again  Tanhum  was  unable  to  an-  swer.  Instead,  Shlomele  the  wag  said  with  a  leer,  &quot;He  lusts  for  both.&quot;  As  Mira  Fridl  bent  over  Tanhum  to  put  a  chicken  leg  on  his  plate,  her  bosom  touched  his  shoulder.  She  add-  ed  potatoes  and  carrots,  and  Tan-  hum  shrank  away  from  her.  He  heard  Shlomele  snicker,  and  he  was  over-  come  with  shame.  I  don't  belong  among  them,  he  thought.  They're  making  a  fool  of  me....  He  had  an  urge  to  stand  up  and  flee.  &quot;Eat,  Tanhum,  don't  dillydally,&quot;  Reb  Bendit  said.  &quot;One  must  have  strength  forthe  Torah.&quot;  Tanhum  put  his  fork  into  the  sauce  and  dug  out  a  sliver  of  meat,  doused  it  in  horseradish,  and  sprinkled  it  with  " b"salt  to  blot  out  the  taste.  He  atea  slice  of  bread,  He  was  intimidated  by  Mira  Fridl.  What  would  they  talk  about  after  the  wedding?  She  was  a  rich  man's  daughter,  ac-  customed  to  a  life  of  luxury.  Her  mother  had  told  him  that  a  goldsmith  from  Lub-  lin  had  fashioned  jewelry  for  Mira  Fridl.  All  kinds  of  fur  coats,  jackets,  and  capes  were  being  sewn  for  her,  and  she  would  be  provided  with  fur-  niture,  rugs,  and  porcelain.  How  could  he,  Tanhum,  exercise  control  over  such  a  pampered  creature?  And  why  would  she  want  him  for  a  husband?  Her  father  had  undoubtedly  coerced  her  in-  to  it.  He  wanted  a  Talmudist  for  a  son-in-law.  Tanhum  envisioned  himself  standing  under  the  wedding  canopy  with  Mira  Fridl,  eating  the  golden  soup,  dancing  the  wedding  dance,  and  then  be-  ing  led  off  to  the  marriage  chamber.  He  felt  a  sense  of  panic.  None  of  this  seemed  fitting  for  his  oppressed  spirit.  He  began  to  sway  and  to  beg  the  Al-  mighty  to  guard  him  from  temptations,  impure  thoughts,  Satan's  net.  Father  in  Heaven,  save  me!  Leibush  Meir  burst  into  laughter.  &quot;What  are  you  swaying  for?  It's  a  chicken  leg,  not  Rashi's  commentary.&quot;  EB  NATHAN  was  expected  to  bring  his  arbitrator,  Reb  Feivel,  to  the  hearing.  Reb  Bendit  Waldman  also  had  his  own  arbitrator,  Reb  Fishel,  but  nevertheless  he  invited  Tanhum  to  at-  tend  the  proceedings  too.  He  said  that  it  would  do  Tanhum  good  to  learn  something  about  practical  matters.  If  heturned  to  the  rabbinate,  he  would  have  to  know  a  little  about  business.  It  was  entirely  feasible  thatthat  stubborn  villain,  Reb  Nathan,  wouldn't  agree  to  a  compromise  and  would  insist  on  the  strict  letter  of  the  law,  and  Reb  Bendit  asked  Tanhum  therefore  to  take  down  the  books  and  go  over  the  sections  that  dealt  with  the  codes  governing  business  partnerships.  Tanhum  agreed  reluc-  tantly.  The  entire  Torah  was  holy,  of  course,  but  Tanhum  wasn't  drawn  to  those  laws  dealing  with  money,  manip-  ulation,  interests,  and  swindle.  In  for-  mer  years  when  he  studied  these  sub-  jects  in  the  Gemara,  it  hadn't  occurred  to  him  that  there  really  were  Jews  who  reneged  on  written  agreements,  stole,  swore  falsely,  and  cheated.  The  idea  of  meeting  in  the  flesh  a  person  who  would  deny  a  debt,  violate  a  trust,  and  grow  rich  from  deception  was  too  pain-  ful  to  contemplate.  Tanhum  wanted  to  tell  Reb  Bendit  that  he  had  no  in-  tention  of  becoming  a  rabbi,  and  that  it  would  be  hard  for  him  now  to  lay  aside  the  treatise  in  which  he  was  ab-  sorbed  and  turn  to  matters  that  were  alien  to  him.  But  how  could  he  refuse  Reb  Bendit,  who  had  raised  him  out  of  poverty,  and  given  him  his  daughter  for  a  bride,  and  provided  him  with  overcoats,  underwear,  a  sheepskin  coat,  a  residence,  holy  books,  a  prayer  shawl  with  silver  brocade,  and  a  thirteen-  pointed  fur  hat  besides?  'This  would  have  enraged  his  future  mother-in-law  and  turned  Mira  Fridl  against  him.  It  would  have  incited  a  feud  and  pro-  voked  evil  gossip.  It  would  have  led  to  who  knows  what  quarrels.  During  the  next  few  days,  Tan-  hum  didn't  have  enough  time  to  get  deeply  into  &quot;The  Breastplate  of  Judg-  ment&quot;  and  its  many  commentaries.  He  quickly  scanned  the  text  of  Rabbi  Caro  and  the  annotations  of  Rabbi  Moshe  Isserles.  He  hummed  and  bit  his  lips.  Obviously  even  in  the  old  days  there  had  been  no  lack  of  frauds  and  of  ras-  cals,  Was  it  any  wonder?  Even  the  generation  that  received  the  Torah  had  its  Korah,  its  Dathan,  its  Abiram.  Still,  how  could  theft  be  reconciled  with  faith?  How  could  one  whose  soul  had  stood  on  Mount  Sinai  defile  it  with  crime?  The  Din  Torah,  the  hearing,  began  on  Saturday  evening,  and  it  looked  as  though  it  would  last  a  whole  week.  The  rabbi,  Reb  Efraim  Engel,  a  patri-  arch  of  seventy  and  author  of  a  book  of  legal  opinions,  told  his  wife  to  send  all  those  who  came  seeking  advice  about  other  matters  to  the  assistant  rabbi.  He  bolted  the  door  of  his  study  and  or-  dered  his  beadle  to  let  only  the  partici-  pants  enter.  On  the  table  stood  the  candles  that  had  ushered  out  the  Sab-  bath,.  The  room  smelled  of  wine,  wax,  and  the  spice  box.  From  the  way  the  family  had  described  Reb  Nathan  Vengrover  as  a  tough  man  and  a  spec-  ulator,  Tanhum  expected  him  to  be  tall,  dark,  and  with  the  wild  gaze  of  a  gypsy,  but  in  came  a  thin,  stooped  little  man  with  a  sparse  beard  the  color  of  pepper,  with  a  milky-white  cataract  in  his  left  eye,  and  wearing  a  faded  gaberdine,  a  sheepskin  hat,  and  coarse  boots.  Pouches  of  bluish  flesh  dangled  beneath  his  eyes  and  he  had  warts  on  his  nose.  Being  the  plaintiff,  he  was  the  first  to  speak.  He  immediately  began  to  shout  in  a  hoarse  voice,  and  he  kept  on  shouting  and  grunting  throughout  the  proceedings:  Reb  Bendit  smoked  an  aromatic  blend  of  tobacco  in  a  pipe  with  an  amber  cover;  Reb  Nathan  rolled  ciga-  rettes  of  cheap,  stinking  tobacco.  Reb  Bendit  spoke  deliberately  and  graced  his  words  with  proverbs  and  quotations  from  the  saints;  Reb  Nathan  slammed  the  table  with  his  fist,  yanked  hairs  from  his  beard,  and  called  Reb  Bendit  a  thief.  He  wouldn't  even  let  his  own  arbitrator,  Reb  Feivel-who  was  the     " b"size  ofa  cheder  boy,  with  eyes  green  as  gooseberries  and  a  red  beard  that  fell  to  his  loins-get  a  word  in  edgewise.  Reb  Bendit  recalled  the  details  of  the  agree-  ment  from  memory,  but  Reb  Nathan  consulted  whole  stackfuls  of  papers  that  were  filled  with  row  upon  row  of  a  clumsy  scribble  and  stained  with  era-  sures  and  blots.  He  didn't  sit  in  the  chair  provided  for  him  but  paced  to  and  fro,  coughed,  and  spat  into  a  handkerchief.  Reb  Bendit  was  sent  all  kinds  of  re-  freshments  and  drinks  from  home,  but  Reb  Nathan  didn't  even  go  near  the  tea  that  the  rabbi's  wife  brought  in.  From  day  to  day  his  face  grewmore  drawn,  and  was  gray  as  dust  and  wasted  as  if  from  consumption.  From  nervous  tension,  he  chewed  his  finger-  nails  and  tore  his  own  notes  into  tiny  shreds.  For  the  first  two  days,  Tanhum  was  completely  bewildered  by  what  went  on.  The  rabbi  again  and  again  im-  plored  Reb  Nathan  to  speak  to  the  point,  not  to  mix  up  dates  or  inject  matters  that  had  no  bearing  on  the  subject.  But  it  all  came  gushing  out  of  Reb  Nathan  like  water  from  a  pump.  Gradually  Tanhum  came  to  under-  stand  that  his  prospective  father-in-law  was  being  accused  of  holding  back  profits  and  falsifying  accounts.  Reb  Nathan  Vengrover  maintained  that  Reb  Bendit  had  bribed  Prince  Sapieha's  steward  to  chop  down  more  acres  of  timber  than  had  been  stipulated  in  the  contract.  Nor  would  Reb  Bendit  allow  Reb  Nathan  and  his  associate  near  the  Squire,  or  to  get  in  contact  with  the  merchants  who  purchased  the  timber,  which  was  tied  in  rafts  and  floated  down  the  Vistula  to  Danzig.  Reb  Bendit  had  allegedly  announced  one  price  to  Reb  Nathan,  when  he  had  in  fact  got  a  higher  one  from  the  mer-  chants.  Reb  Bendit  had  claimed  to  have  paid  the  brokers,  loggers,  and  sawyers  more  than  he  actually  did,  He  em-  ployed  every  trick  and  device  to  oust  Reb  Nathan  from  the  partnership  and  to  seize  all  the  profits  for  himself.  Reb  Nathan  pointed  out  that  Reb  Bendit  had  already  twice  gone  bankrupt  and  subsequently  settled  for  a  third  of  his  debts.  Reb  Bendit  had  kept  silent  most  of  the  time,  awaiting  his  turn  to  speak,  but  finally  he  lost  his  patience.  &quot;Savage!&quot;  he  shouted.  &quot;Hothead!  Lunatic!&quot;  &quot;Usurer!  Swindler!  Robber!&quot;  Reb  Nathan  responded.  On  the  third  day,  Reb  Bendit  calm-  ly  began  to  refute  Reb  Nathan's  charges.  He  proved  that  Reb  Nathan  contradicted  himself,  exaggerated,  and  didn't  know  a  pine  from  an  oak.  How could  he  be  allowed  near  the  Squire  when  his  Polish  was  so  broken?  How  could  he  lay  claim  to  half  the  income  when  he,  Reb  Bendit,  had  to  lay  out  hush  money  to  the  gentry,  stave  off  unfavorable  decrees,  shower  assessors  and  marshals  with  gifts  out  of  his  own  pocket?  The  more  glibly  Reb  Bendit  spoke,  the  more  apparent  it  became  to  Tanhum  that  his  prospective  father-in-  law  had  broken  his  agreement  and  had  indeed  sought  to  rob  Reb  Nathan  of  the  profits  and  even  part  of  his  original  investment.  But  how  could  this  be,  Tanhum  wondered.  How  could  Reb  Bendit,  a  man  inhis  sixties,  a  scholar,  and  a  Chassid,  commit  such  iniquities?  What  was  his  justification?  He  knew  all  the  laws.  He  knew  that  no  re-  pentance  could  excuse  the  sin  of  rob-  bery  and  theft  unless  one  paid  back  every  penny.  TheDay  of  Atonement  didn't  forgive  such  transgressions.  Could  a  manwho  &quot;believed  in  the  Creator,  in  reward  and  punishment  and  in  immortality  of  the  soul,  risk  the  world  to  come  for  the  sake  of  a  few  thousand  gulden?  Or  was  Reb  Bendit  a  secret  heretic?  In  the  closing  days,  Reb  Bendit,  his  arbitrator,  Reb  Fishel,  and  Tanhum  didn't  go  home  for  dinner-the  maid  brought  them  meat  and  soup.  But  Tanhum  didn't  touch  the  food.  There  was  a  gnawing  in  his  stomach.  His  tongue  was  dry.  He  had  a  bad  taste  in  his  mouth,  and  he  felt  like  vomiting.  Al-  though  he  fasted,  his  belly  was  bloated.  A  lump  formed  in  his  throat  that  he  could  neither  swallow  nor  disgorge.  He  didn't  weep  but  his  eyes  kept  tear-  ing  over,  and  he  saw  everything  as  if  through  a  mist.  Tanhum  reminded  himself  that  only  that  past  Sukkoth,  when  Reb  Bendit  had  gone  to  the  Sadgora  rabbi,  he  had  brought  the  rabbi  an  ivory  ethrog  box  that  was  decorated  with  silver  and  embossed  in  gold.  Inside,  couched  in  flax,  lay  an  ethrog  from  Corfu  that  was  pocked  and  budding.  The  Chassidim  knew  that  besides  contributing  generously  to  the  community,  of  which  he  was  an  elder,  Reb  Bendit  also  gave  the  rabbi  a  tithe.  But  what  was  the  sense  of  robbing  one  person  to  give  to  another?  Did  he  do  all  this  to  be  praised  in  the  Sadgora  study  houses  and  be  seated  at  the  rabbi's  table?  Had  the  greed  for  mon-  ey  and  honors  so  blinded  him  that  he  didn't  know  the  wrongs  he  commit-  ted?  Yes,  so  it  seemed,  for  during  evening  prayers  Reb  Bendit  piously  washed  his  fingers  in  the  basin,  girdled  his  loins  with  a  sash,  stationed  himself  to  pray  at  the  eastern  wall,  swayed,  bowed,  beat  his  breast,  and  sighed.  From  time  to  time  he  stretched  his  hands  up  to  Heaven.  Several  times  during  the  arbitration  he  had  invoked  God's  name.  Thursday  night,  when  it  came  time  to  pass  judgment,  Reb  Nathan  Ven-  grover  demanded  a  clear-cut  decision:  &quot;No  compromises!  Ifthe  law  says  that  what  my  partner  did  was  right,  then  I  don't  demand  even  a  groschen.&quot;  &quot;According  to  law,  Reb  Bendit  has  to  take  an  oath,&quot;  Reb  Nathan's  arbi-  trator,  Reb  Feivel,  asserted.  " b"&quot;I  wouldn't  swear  even  for  a  sack-  ful  of  gold,&quot;  Reb  Bendit  countered.  &quot;In  that  case,  pay  up!&quot;  &quot;Not  on  your  life!&quot;  Both  arbitrators,  Reb  Feivel  and  Reb  Fishel,  began  to  dispute  the  law.  The  rabbi  drew  &quot;The  Breastplate  of  Judgment&quot;  down  from  the  bookcase.  Reb  Bendit  cast  a  glance  at  Tan-  hum.  &quot;'Tanhum,  why  don't  you  speak  up?))  Tanhum  wanted  to  say  that  to  ap-  propriate  another's  possession  was  as  serious  an  offense  as  swearing  false-  ly.  He  also  wanted  to  ask,  &quot;Why  did  you  do  it?&quot;  But  he  merely  mumbled,  &quot;Since  Father-in-Law  signed  an  agree-  ment,  he  must  honor  it.&quot;  &quot;So  you,  too,  turn  on  me,  eh?&quot;  &quot;God  forbid,  but-&quot;  &quot;'Art  thou  forus  or  for  our  ad-  versaries?'  &quot;  Reb  Bendit  quoted  from  the  Book  of  Joshua,  in  a  dry  voice.   &quot;We  don't  live  forever,&quot;  Tanhum  said  haltingly.  -  &quot;You  go  home!&quot;  Reb  Bendit  or-  dered.  TANHUM  left  the  rabbi's  study  and  went  straight  to  his  room  at  the  inn.  He  didn't  recite  the  Shema,  or  undress,  but  sat  on  the  edge  of  his  cot  the  whole  night.  When  the  light  began  to  break,  he  packed  his  Sabbath  gaber-  dine,  a  few  shirts,  socks,  and  books  in  a  straw  basket,  and  walked  down  Syna-  gogue  Street  to  the  bridge  that  led  out  of  town.  Months  went  by  without  any  news  of  him.  They  even  dredged  the  river  for  his  body.  Reb  Bendit  Waldman  and  Reb  Nathan  Vengrover  reached  an  agreement.  The  rabbi  and  the  arbitrators  wouldn't  permit  it  to  come  to  oath-taking.  Mira  Fridl  be-  came  engaged  to  a  youth  from  Lublin,  the  son  ofa  sugar  manufacturer.  Tan-  hum  had  left  all  his  presents  behind  at  the  inn,  and  the  bridegroom  from  Lub-  lin  inherited  them.  One  winter  day,  a  shipping  agent  brought  news  of  Tan-  hum:  he  had  gone  back  to  the  Brisk  Yeshiva,  from  which  Reb  Bendit  origi-  nally  brought  him  to  his  town.  Tan-  hum  had  become  a  recluse.  He  ate  no  meat,  drank  no  wine,  put  pebbles  in-  side  his  shoes,  and  slept  on  a  bench  behind  the  stove  at  the  study  house.  When  a  new  match  was  proposed  to  him  in  Brisk,  he  responded,  &quot;My  soul  yearns  for  the  Torah.&quot; "