 b"Dr.  Franz-JosEr  von  LEms-DORF  is  a  geologist  absorbed  in  his  work-wrapped  up  in  it,  as  the  saying  goes.  Year  after  year,  the  experience  of  this  work  enfolds  him,  swaddling  him  away  from  the  landscapes,  the  cities,  and  the  people  of  50657275,  New  Zealand,  the  United  [REDACTED],  or  wherever  else  he  may  live.  He's  always  been  like  that,  his  mother  could  confirm  from  their  native  Austria.  Even  as  a  small  boy,  he  seemed  to  pre-  sent  only  his  profile  to  her:  turned  away  to  his  bits  of  rock  and  stone.  His  few  relaxations  have  not  changed  much  since  then-an  occasional  skiing  trip,  listen-  ing  to  music,  reading  poetry.  Rainer  Maria  Rilke  once  stayed  in  his  grand-  mother's  hunting  lodge  in  the  forests  of  Styria,  and  the  boy  was  introduced  to  Rilke's  poems  while  very  young.  Now  he  has  been  in  Africa  for  al-  most  seven  years,  first  on  the  Cote  d'Ivoire,  and  then,  forthe  past  five  years,  in  [REDACTED]  Africa.  A  shortage  of  skilled  manpower  brought  about  his  recruitment  here.  He  has  no  interest  in  the  politics  of  the  countries  he  works  AR,  apn  &lt;g&gt;  in.  His  private  preoccupation,  within  the  preoccupation  of  his  work,  has  been  research  into  underground  water-  courses,  but  the  mining  company  that  employs  him  in  a  senior  capacity  is  in-  terested  only  in  mineral  discovery.  He  is  much  out  in  the  field-&quot;the  veld,&quot;  here-seeking  new  gold,  copper,  plati-  num,  and  uranium  deposits.  When  he  is  at  home,  on  this  particular  job,  he  lives  in  a  three-room  flat  in  a  subur-  ban  block  with  a  landscaped  central  garden,  and  does  his  shopping  at  a  supermarket  acrossthe  street.  He  is  not  married-yet.  That  is  how  his  col-  leagues,  and  the  typists  and  secretaries  at  the  mining  company's  head  office,  would  define  his  situation.  Both  men  and  women  would  describe  him  as  a  good-looking  man,  in  a  foreign  way.  The  lower  half  of  his  face  is  dark  and  middle-aged  (his  mouth  is  thin  and  curving,  and  no  matter  how  closely  he  shaves  his  beard  shows  like  fine  shot  embedded  in  the  skin  around  his  mouth  and  chin),  and  the  upper  half  con-  tradictorily  young.  He  has  deep-set  eyes  (some  would  say  gray,  some  black) and  thick  eyelashes  and  brows.  A  tan-  gled  gaze,  through  which  concentration  and  thoughtfulness  perhaps  appear  as  languor.  The  women  in  his  office  say  that  he's  &quot;not  unattractive.&quot;  Although  the  gaze  seems  to  contain  promise,  he  has  never  invited  any  of  them  to  go  out  with  him.  There  is  a  general  assumption  he  probably  has  a  girl  who's  been  picked  for  him,  back  home  in  Europe,  where  he  comes  from-that  he's  bespoken  by  one  of  his  own  kind.  It  is  understood  that  many  of  these  well-educated  Euro-  peans  have  no  intention  of  becoming  permanent  immigrants;  colonial  life  doesn't  appeal  to  them.  One  advantage,  at  least,  of  living  in  underdeveloped  or  half-developed  countries  is  that  most  flats  are  serv-  iced-resident  cleaners  come  in  every  day.  All  Dr.  von  Leinsdorf  has  to  do  for  himself  is  buy  his  own  supplies  and  cook  an  evening  meal  if  he  doesn't  want  to  go  to  a  restaurant.  He  simply  drops  in  to  the  supermarket  on  his  way  from  his  car  to  his  flat  after  work  in  the  afternoon,  and  wheels  a  shopping  cart  down  the  aisles.  At  the  cashiers  counters,  there  are  racks  of  small,  un-  categorized  items  for  last-minute  pur-  chase.  Here,  as  a  Colored  girl  cashier  punches  the  register  (he  has  quickly  accustomed  himself  to  [REDACTED]  African  use  of  &quot;Colored&quot;  to  distinguish  peo-  ple  of  mixed  blood  from  those  of  pure  African  descent),  he  sometimes  picks  up  cigarettes  and  perhaps  a  packet  of  salted  nuts  ora  bar  of  nougat.  One  evening  in  winter,  he  saw  that  the  cardboard  display  board  was  empty  of  the  brand  of  razor  blades  he  preferred,  and  he  drew  the  cashier's  attention  to  this.  These  young  Colored  girls  were  usually  unhelpful,  taking  money  and  punching  their  machines  in  a  manner  that  asserted,  with  the  timeserving  obstinacy  of  the  half-literate,  a  limit  of  any  responsibility  toward  customers,  but  this  particular  girl  glanced  over  the  selection  of  razor  blades,  explained  that  she  was  not  allowed  to  leave  her  post,  and  said  she  would  see  that  the  stock  was  replenished  &quot;next  time.&quot;  A  day  or  two  later,  she  recognized  him  as  he  took  his  turn  before  her  counter.  &quot;I  ahssed  them,&quot;  she  said  gravely,  &quot;but  it's  out  of  stock.  You  can't  get  it.  I  did  ahss  about  it.&quot;  He  said  it  didn't  matter.  &quot;When  it  comes  in,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;I  can  keep  a  few  packets  for  you.&quot;  He  thanked  her.  He  was  away  with  the  prospectors  the  whole  of  the  next  week.  He  ar-  rived  back  in  town  just  before  nightfall  on  Friday,  and  was  on  the  way  from  his  car  to  his  flat,  arms  filled  with  brief-  case,  suitcase,  and  two  canvas  bags,  " b"when  someone  stopped  him  by  stand-  ing  timidly  in  his  path.  He  was  about  to  dodgeround  unseeingly  on  the  pave-  ment,  but  she  spoke.  &quot;We  got  the  blades  in  now.  I  didn't  see  you  in  the  shop  this  week,  but  I  kept  some  for  when  you  come.  So  .  ..&quot;  He  recognized  her.  He  had  never  seen  her  outdoors  before,  and  she  was  wearing  a  coat.  She  was  rather  small  and  finely  made,  for  one  of  them.  The  coat  was  skimpy,  but  she  did  not  show  a  typical  big  backside.  The  cold  brought  a  graining  of  warm  color  to  her  cheekbones,  beneath  which  her  very  small  face  was  quite  delicately  hollowed.  Her  skin  was  smooth,  the  subdued  satiny  color  of  certain  yellow  wood.  She  had  cr\xc3\xa9pey  hair,  but  it  was  drawn  back  flat  into  a  little  knot  and  pushed  into  one  of  the  cheap  wool  nets  that  he  recognized  as  being  among  the  miscellany  of  small  goods  (along  with  the  razor  blades)  on  sale  at  the  supermarket.  He  said  thanks,  he  was  in  a  hurry-he'd  only  just  got  back  from  a  trip.  He  shifted  the  burdens  he  was  car-  rying,  to  demonstrate.  She  said,  &quot;But  if  you  want,  I  can  run  in  and  get  the  blades  for  you  quickly.  If  you  want.&quot;  He  saw  at  once  that  all  the  girl  meant  was  that  she  would  go  back  to  the  supermarket,  buy  the  blades,  and  bring  the  packet  to  him  there  where  he  stood,  on  the  pavement.  It  was  this  certainty  that  made  him  say,  in  the  kindly  tone  used  for  an  obliging  under-  ling,  &quot;I  live  just  across  there.  Atlan-  tis-that  flat  building.  Could  you  drop  them  by,  for  me-No.  718,  seventh  foor?&quot;  He  gave  her  a  one-rand  note.  She  had  never  been  inside  one  of  these  big  flat  buildings.  She  lived  a  bus-and-train  ride  away,  to  the  west  of  the  city  but  this  side  of  the  black  townships,  in  a  township  reserved  for  people  her  tint.  In  the  entrance  of  the  building  called  Atlantis  there  was  a  pool  with  real  ferns,  not  plastic,  and  even  a  litle  waterfall  pumping  over  rocks.  She  didn't  wait  for  the  lift  marked  &quot;Goods&quot;  but  took  the  one  for  whites.  A  white  woman  with  one  of  those  sausage  dogs  on  aleash  got  in  with  herbut  did  not  pay  her  any  at-  tention.  The  corridors  leading  to  the  flats  were  nicely  glassed  in,  not  drafty.  He  decided  he  should  give  her  a  twenty-cent  piece  for  her  trouble-ten  cents  would  be  right  for  a  black-but  she  said,  &quot;Oh,  no  .  .  .  please,&quot;  standing  outside  his  open  door  and  awkwardly  pushing  back  into  his  hand  the  change  from  the  money  he'd  given  her.  She  was  smiling,  for  the  first  time,  in  the  dignity  of  refusinga  tip.  It  was  difficult  to  know  how  to  treat  these  people,  in this  country,  difficult  to  know  what  they  expected.  In  spite  of  her  embarrassing  refusal  of  the  tip,  she  still  stood  there,  unassuming,  with  her  fists  thrust  down  the  pockets  of  her  cheap  coat.  Her  rather  pretty  thinlegs  were  neatly  aligned,  knee  to  knee,  ankle  to  ankle.  &quot;Would  you  like  a  cup  of  coffee  or  something?&quot;  he  said.  He  couldn't  very  well  take  her  into  his  living  room  and  offer  her  a  drink.  She  followed  him  to  his  kitchen,  but  at  the  sight  of  her  pulling  out  the  single  chair  there  to  drink  her  cup  of  coffee  at  the  kitchen  table  he  said,  &quot;No,  bring  it  in  here,&quot;  and  led  the  way  into  the  big  room,  where,  among  his  books  and  his  papers,  his  files  of  sci-  entific  correspondence  (and  the  cigar  boxes  of  stamps  from  the  envelopes),  his  racks  of  records,  and  his  specimens  of  minerals  and  rocks,  he  lived  alone.  T  was  no  trouble  to  her.  She  saved  him  the  trips  to  the  supermarket  and  brought  him  his  groceries  two  or  three  times  a  week.  All  he  had  to  do  was  leave  a  list  and  the  key  under  the  doormat,  and  she  would  come  up  in  her  lunch  hour  to  collect  them,  re-  turning  after  work  to  put  away  his  supplies  in  the  flat.  Sometimes  he  was  home  and  sometimes  not.  He  bought  a  box  of  chocolates  and  left  it,  with  a  note,  for  her  tofind.  That  was  accept-  able,  apparently,  as  a  gratuity.  When  they  were  there  together,  he  saw  that  her  eyes  went  over  everything  in  the  flat,  although  her  body  seemed  to  try  to  conceal  its  sense  of  being  out  of  place  by  remaining  as  still  as  possible.  Sitting  in  a  chair,  she  was  like  a  coat  laid  there  until  its  owner  takes  it  up  to  go.  &quot;'You  collect?&quot;  she  said  one  day,  looking  at  the  stones  and  bits  of  rock  that  took  the  place  of  the  pretty  orna-  ments  she  would  have  expected  in  such  a  setting.  &quot;Well,  these  are  specimens-con-  nected  with  my  work.&quot;  &quot;My  brother  used  tocollect.  Minia-  " b"tures.  With  brandy  and  whiskey  and  that  in  them.  From  all  over.  Different  countries.&quot;  The  second  time  they  had  coffee  to-  gether,  she  watched  him  grinding  the  beans  and  said,  &quot;You  always  do  that?  Always  when  you  make  coffee?&quot;  &quot;But  of  course.  Is  it  no  good,  for  you?  Do  I  make  it  too  strong?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  it's  just  I'm  not  used  to  it.  We  buy  it  ready-you  know,  coffee  es-  sence,  it's  in  a  bottle;  you  just  add  a  bit  to  the  milk  or  water.&quot;  He  laughed.  &quot;That's  not  coffee,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'That's  a  liquid  synthetically  fla-  vored.  In  my  country  we  drink  only  real  coffee,  fresh,  from  the  beans.  You  smell  how  good  it  is  as  it's  being  ground?&quot;  One  day,  she  was  stopped  by  the  caretaker  and  asked  what  she  wanted  in  the  building.  Heavy  with  the  bone  fides  of  groceries  clutched  to  her  body,  she  said  she  was  working  at  No.  718,  on  the  seventh  floor.  The  caretaker  did  not  tell  her  not  to  use  the  whites  lift.  After  all,  she  was  not  black;  her  family  was  very  light-skinned.  One  day,  there  was  the  item  &quot;gray  button  for  trousers&quot;  on  one  of  his  shopping  lists.  As  she  unpacked  the  shopping  basket  in  the  flat,  she  said,  &quot;Give  me  the  pants,  then,&quot;  and  spread  them  on  her  lap  as  she  sat  on  his  sofa,  which  was  always  gritty  with  frag-  ments  of  pipe  tobacco.  She  sewed  swift-  ly  in  and  out  through  the  four  holes  of  the  button  with  firm,  fluent  movements  of  the  right  hand,  her  gestures  supply-  ing  an  articulacy  missing  from  her  talk.  She  had  a  little  gap-a  peasant's  gap,  he  thought  of  it-between  her  two  front  teeth  when  she  smiled.  He  didn't  much like  this,  but  when  her  face  was  turned  away  to  a  three-quarter  angle,  with  her  eyes  cast  down  in  concentration  and  her  soft  lips  almost  closed,  it  didn't  matter.  Watching  her  sew,  he  said,  You're  a  good  girl;&quot;  and  touched  her.  HE  remade  the  bed  every  late  afternoon  when  they  left  it  and  she  dressed  again  before  she  went  home.  After  a  week,  there  was  a  day  when  late  afternoon  became  evening  and  they  were  still  in  the  bed.  &quot;Can't  you  stay  the  night?&quot;  &quot;My  mother,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Phone  her.  Make  an  excuse.&quot;  He  was  a  foreigner.  He  had  been  in  the  country  five  years,  but  he  didn't  yet  understand  that  where  she  lived  peo-  ple  didn't  have  telephones  in  their  houses.  She  got  up  to  dress.  He  didn't  want  that  tender  body  to  go  out  in  the  night  cold,  and  kept  hindering  her  with  his  hands,  saying  nothing.  Before  she  put  on  her  coat,  when  the  body  had  " b"already  disappeared,  he  spoke.  &quot;But  you  must  make  some  arrangement.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  my  mother!&quot;  Her  face  showed  a  fear  and  vacancy  he  could  not  read.  Did  the  mother  still  think  of  her  daughter  as  some  pure  and  unsullied  virgin?  &quot;Why?&quot;  he  said.  The  girl  said,  &quot;Se'll  be  scared.  Se'll  be  scared  we  get  caught.&quot;  &quot;Don't  tell  her  anything,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Say  I'm  employing  you.&quot;  In  his  build-  ing  there  were  rooms  on  the  roof  for  tenants'  servants.  She  said,  &quot;That's  what  I  told  the  caretaker.&quot;  SHE  ground  fresh  coffee  beans  whenever  he  wanted  a  cup  while  he  was  working  at  night.  She  never  attempted  to  cook  anything  until  she  had  watched  him  do  it  the  way  he  liked,  and  she  learned  to  reproduce  ex-  actly  the  simple  dishes  he  preferred.  Sometimes  she  handled  his  pieces  of  rock  and  stone,  at  first  admiring  the  colors:  &quot;It'd  make  a  beautiful  ring  or  a  necklace,  ay.&quot;  Then  he  showed  her  the  striations,  the  formation  of  each  piece,  and  explained  what  each  stone  was,  and  how,  in  the  long  life  of  the  earth,  it  had  been  formed.  He  named  the  mineral  it  yielded  and  what  that  was  used  for,.  He  worked  at  his  papers,  writing,  writing,  every  night,  so  it  did  not  matter  that  they  could  not  go  out  together  to  public  places.  On  Sundays,  she  got  into  his  car  in  the  basement  garage,  and  they  drove  to  the  country  and  picnicked  away  up  in  the  Ma-  galiesberg,  where  there  was  no  one.  He  read  or  poked  about  among  the  rocks;  they  climbed  together  to  the  moun-  tain  pools.  He  taught  her  to  swim.  She  squealed  and  shrieked  in  the  water,  showing  the  gap  between  her  teeth  as-it  crossed  his  mind-she  must  when  among  her  own  people.  Occasionally,  he  had  to  go  out  to  dinner  at  the  houses  of  colleagues  from  the  mining  company.  She  sewed  and  listened  to  the  radio  in  the  flat,  and  he  found  her  in  the  bed,  warm  and  al-  ready  asleep,  by  the  time  he  came  in.  He  made  his  way  into  her  body  with-  out  speaking;  she  made  him  welcome  without  a  word.  Once,  he  put  on  eve-  ning  clothes  for  a  dinner  at  his  coun-  try's  consulate.  Watching  him  brush  one  or  two  fallen  hairs  from  the  shoul-  " b"ders  of  the  dark  jacket  that  sat  so  well  on  him,  she  saw  a  huge  room,  all  chandeliers,  and  people  dancing  some  dance  from  a  costume  film-stately,  hand  in  hand.  She  supposed  he  was  go-  ing  to  fetch  a  partner  for  the  evening,  to  sit  in  her  place  in  the  car.  They  never  kissed  when  either  of  them  left  the  flat.  Suddenly,  kindly,  pausing  as  he  picked  up  cigarettes  and  keys,  he  said,  &quot;Don't  be  lonely.&quot;  And  add-  ed,  &quot;Wouldn't  you  like  to  visit  your  family  sometimes,  when  I  have  to  go  out?&quot;  He  had  told  her  that  after  Christ-  mas  he  was  going  home  to  his  mother  in  the  forests  and  mountains  of  his  country,  near  the  Italian  border  (he  showed  her  on  the  map).  She  had  not  told  him  how  her  mother,  not  knowing  there  was  any  other  variety,  assumed  he  was  a  medical  doctor,  or  how  she  had  talked  to  her  mother  about  the  doctor's  children  and  the  doctor's  wife,  who  was  a  very  kind  lady,  glad  to  have  someone  who  could  help  out  in  the  surgery  as  well  as  the  flat.  She  remarked  wonderingly  on  his  ability  to  work  until  midnight  or  later,  after  a  day  at  work.  When  she  came  home  from  her  cash  register  at  the  supermarket,  she  was  so  tired  that  once  dinner  was  eaten  she  could  scarcely  keep  awake.  He  explained,  in  a  way  she  could  understand,  that  while     the  work  she  did  was  repetitive,  requir-  ing  little  mental  or  physical  effort,  and  therefore  unrewarding,  his  work  was  his  greatest  interest;  it  taxed  his  mental  capacities  to  their  limit,  ex-  ercised  all  his  concentration,  and  re-  warded  him  constantly,  as  much  with  the  excitement  of  a  problem  presented  as  with  the  satisfaction  of  a  problem  solved.  Later,  putting  away  his  papers,  speaking  out  of  a  silence,  he  said,  &quot;Have  you  done  other  kinds  of  work?&quot;  She  said,  &quot;I  was  in  a  clothing  factory  be-  fore.  Sportbeau  Shirts-you  know?  But  the  pay's  better  in  the  shop.&quot;  Of  course.  Being  a  conscientious  newspaper  reader,  he  was  aware  that  it  was  only  recently  that  the  retail  trade  here  had  been  allowed  to  em-  ploy  Coloreds  as  shop  assistants;  even  punching  a  cash  register  represented  advancement.  With  the  continuing  shortage  of  semi-skilled  whites,  a  girl  like  this  might  be  able  to  edge  a  lit-  tle  further  into  the  white-collar  cate-  gory.  He  began  to  teach  her  to  type.  He  was  aware  that  her  English  was  poor,  but  because  he  was  a  foreigner  her  pronunciation  did  not  offendhim,  nor  categorize  her.  He  corrected  her  grammatical  mistakes  but  missed  the  less  obvious  ones  because  of  his  own  sometimes  unusual  English  usage.  She  continued  to  use  the  singular  &quot;it&quot;  for  the  plural  &quot;they.&quot;  Because  he  was  a foreigner  (although  so  clever,  she  saw),  she  was  less  inhibited  than  she  might  have  been  by  the  words  she  knew  she  mis-  spelled  in  her  typing.  While  she  sat  at  the  type-  writer,  she  thought  how  one  day  she  would  type  notes  for  him,  as  well  as  making  coffeethe  way  he  liked  it  and  taking  him  in-  side  her  body  without  say-  ing  anything  and  sitting  (even  if  only  through  the  empty  streets  of  quiet  Sun-  days)  beside  him  in  his  car,  like  a  wife.  N  a  summer  night  near  Christmas-he  had  already  bought  and  hidden  a  slightly  showy  but  good  watch  he  thought  she  would  like-there  was  a  knocking  at  the  door  that  brought  her  out  of  the  bathroom  andhim  to  his  feet,  at  his  worktable.  During  the  day,  it  might  have  been  a  canvasser  or  a  hawker,  but  no  one  ever  came  to  the  flat  at  night;  he  was  not  at  home  to  friends.  The  summons  was  an  imperious  banging  that  clear-  ly  would  not  stop  until  the  door  was  opened.  Wearing  a  big  bath  towel,  she  stood  in  the  bathroom  doorway,  gazing  at  him  across  the  passage  into  the  living  room;  her  feet  and  shoulders  were  bare.  She  said  nothing,  did  not  even  whisper.  The  flat  seemed  to  shake  with  the  strong,  unhurried  blows.  He  made  as  if  to  go  to  the  door  at  last,  but  now  she  ran  and  clutched  him  by  both  arms.  She  shook  her  head  wild-  ly.  Her  lips  drew  back,  buther  teeth  were  clenched.  She  didn't  speak.  She  pulled  him  into  the  bedroom,  snatched  some  clothes  from  the  clean  laundry  laid  out  on  the  bed,  and  got  intothe  built-in  wardrobe,  thrusting  the  key  at  his  hand.  His  arms  and  calves  felt  weak  and  cold,  but  he  was  distaste-  fully  embarrassed  at  the  sight  of  her  crouching  there  under  hissuits  and  coats;  it  was  horrible  and  ridiculous.  &quot;Come  out!&quot;  he  whispered.  &quot;No!  Come  out!&quot;  f  &quot;Where?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Where  can  I  0?\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;Never  mind!  Get  out  of  there!&quot;  He  put  out  his  hand  to  grasp  her.  At  bay,  baring  the  gap  in  her  teeth,  she  said  in  a  terrible  whisper,  &quot;PH  throw  myself  out  the  window!&quot;  " b"She  forced  the  key  into  his  hand  like  the  handle  of  a  knife.  He  closed  the  door  on  her  face  and  drove  the  key  home  in  the  lock,  then  dropped  it  among  the  coins  in  his  trouser  pocket.  He  unslotted  the  chain  that  was  looped  across  the  entrance  door  of  the  flat.  He  turned  the  serrated  knob  of  the  Yale  lock.  Three  policemen,  two  in  plain  clothes,  stood  there  without  impatience,  although  they  had  been  banging  on  the  door  for  several  min-  utes.  One  of  the  plainclothesmen-a  big,  dark  man  with  an  elaborate  mus-  tache-held  out,  in  a  hand  wearing  a  plaited  gilt  ring,  some  sort  of  identity  card.  &quot;What  is  it?&quot;  Dr.  von  Leinsdorf  said  quietly,  the  blood  coming  strangely  back  tolegs  and  arms.  The  sergeant  told  him  they  knew  there  was  a  Colored  girl  in  the  flat.  They  had  had  information.  &quot;I  been  watching  this  flat  three  months,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  know.&quot;  &quot;I  am  alone  here.&quot;  Dr.  von  Leinsdorf  did  not  raise  his  voice.  &quot;I  know,  I  know  who  is  here.  Come.&quot;  And  the  ser-  geant  and  his  two  assistants  passed  him  and  moved  system-  atically  through  the  living  room,  the  kitchen,  the  bath-  room  (the  sergeant  picked  up  a  bottle  of  after-shave  cologne  and  seemed  to  study  the  French  label),  and  entered  the  bedroom.  The  assistants  removed  the  clean  laundry  that  was  laid  upon  the  bed  and  then  turned  back  the  bedding,  carrying  thesheets  over  to  be  examined  by  the  sergeant  un-  der  the  lamp.  They  talked  to  one  another  in  Afrikaans,  which  the  doctor  did  not  un-  derstand.  The  sergeant  him-  self  looked  under  the  bed  and  lifted  the  long  curtains  at  the  window.  The  built-in  ward-  robe  was  of  the  kind  that  has  no  knobs;  he  saw  that  it  was  closed,  and  began  to  ask  in  Afrikaans,  then  politely  changed  to  English,  &quot;Give  us  the  key.&quot;  Dr.  von  Leinsdorf  said,  &quot;I'm  sorry,I  left  it  at  my  of-  fice.  I  always  lock  up  and  take  my  keys  with  me  in  the  morn-  ings.&quot;  &quot;It's  no  good,  man.  You  better  give  me  the  key.&quot;  He  smiled  a  little,  reason-  ably.&quot;It's  on  my  office  desk.&quot;  The  assistants  produced  a     screwdriver,  and  he  watched  while  they  inserted  it  where  the  wardrobe  doors  met  and  gave  it  a  quick  lever-  age.  He  heard  the  lock  give.  She  had  been  naked,  it  was  true,  when  he  had  locked  her  in,  but  now  she  was  wearing  a  long-sleeved  shirt  with  an  appliqu\xc3\xa9d  butterfly  motif  on  one  breast,  and  a  pair  of  jeans.  Her  feet  were  still  bare.  In  the  dark,  she  had  managed  to  get  into  some  of  the  clothing  she  had  snatched  from  the  bed,  but  she  had  no  shoes.  She  had  perhaps  been  weeping  behind  the  door  (her  cheeks  looked  stained),  but  now  her  face  was  sullen  and  she  was  breathing  heavily,  her  diaphragm  contracting  and  expanding  exaggeratedly  and  her  breasts  pushing  against  the  cloth.  She  looked  angry,  but  it  might  simply  have  been  that  she  was  half  suffocated  in  the  wardrobe  and  needed  air.  She  did  not  look  at  Dr.von  Leinsdorf.  She  would  not  reply  to  the  sergeant's  questions.  They  were  taken  to  the  police  sta-  tion,  where  they  were  at  once  separat-  ed  and  led  in  turn  for  examination  by  the  district  surgeon.  The  man's  under-  wear  was  taken  away  and  examined,  as  the  sheets  had  been,  for  signs  of  his  seed.  When  the  girl  was  undressed,  it  was  discovered  that  beneath  her  jeans  she  was  wearing  a  pair  of  men's  briefs,  with  his  name  on  theneatly  sewn  laundry  tag.  In  her  haste,  she  had  taken  the  wrong  garment  to  her  hiding  place.  Now  she  cried,  standing  there  be-  fore  the  district  surgeon  in  a  man's  underwear.  He  courteously  pretended  not  to  notice.  He  handed  the  briefs,  jeans,  and  shirt  to  someone  outside  the  door,  and  motioned  her  to  lie  on  a  white-sheeted  high  table,  where  he  placed  her  legs  apart,  resting  in  stirrups,  and  put  into  her  where  the  other  had     " b"made  his  way  so  warmly  a  cold,  hard  instrument  that  expanded  wider  and  wider.  Her  body  opened.  Her  thighs  and  knees  trembled  uncontrollably  while  the  doctor  looked  into  her  and  touched  her  deep  inside  with  other  hard  instru-  ments  carrying  wafers  of  gauze.  When  she  came  out  of  the  examin-  ing  room,  back  to  the  charge  office,  Dr.  von  Leinsdorf  was  not  there;  they  must  have  taken  him  somewhere  else.  She  spent  what  was  left  of  the  night  in  a  cell,  but  early  in  the  morning  she  was  released  and  taken  home  to  her  mother's  house  in  the  Colored  town-  ship.  She  was  driven  by  a  white  man  who  explained  he  was  the  clerk  of  the  lawyer  who  had  been  engaged  for  her  by  Dr.  von  Leinsdorf.  The  clerk  said  Dr.  von  Leinsdorf  had  also  been  bailed  out  that  morning.  She  was  not  told  when  or  if  she  would  see  him  again.  STATEMENT  made  by  the  girl  to  the  police  was  handed  in  to  the  court  when  she  and  the  man  ap- peared  to  meet  charges  of  contravening  the  Immorality  Act  in  a  [REDACTED]  flat.  &quot;I  lived  with  the  white  man  in  his  flat,&quot;  it  read.  &quot;He  had  intercourse  with  me  sometimes.  He  gave  me  tab-  lets  to  take  to  prevent  me  becoming  pregnant.&quot;  Interviewed  by  the  Sunday  papers,  the  girl  said,  &quot;I'm  sorry  for  the  sadness  brought  to  my  mother.&quot;  She  said  she  was  one  of  nine  children  of  a  female  laundry  worker.  She  had  left  school  in  Standard  Three  because  there  was  no  money  at  home  for  gym  clothes  or  a  school  blazer.  She  had  worked  as  a  machinist  in  a  factory  and  a  cashier  in  a  supermarket.  Dr.  von  Leinsdorf  taught  her  to  type  his  notes.  Dr.  Franz-Josef  von  Leinsdorf,  de-  scribed  in  the  newspaper  as  the  grand-  son  of  a  baroness-a  cultured  man  en-  gaged  in  international  mineralogical  research-said  he  accepted  social  dis-  tinctions  between  people  but  didn't  think  they  should  be  legally  imposed.  &quot;Even  in  my  own  country  it's  difficult  for  a  person  from  a  higher  class  to  marry  one  from  a  lower  class,&quot;  he  said.  The  two  accused  gave  no  evidence.  They  did  not  greet  or  speak  to  each  other  in  court.  The  defense  argued  that  the  sergeant's  evidence  that  they  had  been  living  together  as  man  and  wife  was  hearsay.  (The  woman  with  dachshund  had  reported  suspicions,  per-  haps,  or  maybe  it  was  the  caretaker.)  The  magistrate  acquitted  them  because  the  statefailedto  prove  that  carnal  intercourse  had  taken  place  on  the  stated  night.  In  the  Sunday  papers  there  was  a  photograph  of  the  girl's  mother,  who  was  quoted  as  saying,  &quot;I  won't  let  my  daughter  work  as  a  servant  for  a  white  man  again.&quot; "