 b"1.  During  the  night,  4,  though  sleep-  ing  with  B,  dreams  of  C,  C  stands  at  the  furthest  extremity  or  (if  the  image  is  considered  two-dimensionally)  the  apogee  of  a  curved  driveway,  perhaps  a  dream-refraction  of  the  driveway  of  the  house  that  had  once  been  their  shared  home.  Her  figure,  though  small  in  the  perspective,  is  vivid,  clad  in  a  to-  mato-red  summer  dress;  her  head  is  thrown  back,  her  hands  are  on  her  hips,  and  her  legs  have  taken  a  wide,  con-  fident  stance.  She  is  flaunting  herself,  perhaps  laughing;  his  impression  is  of  intense  female  vitality,  his  emotion  is  of  longing.  He  awakes  troubled.  'The  sleep  of  B  beside  him  is  not  disturbed;  she  rests  in  the  certainty  that  4  loves  her.  Indeed,  he  has  left  C  for  her,  to  prove  it.  Which  has  he  more  pro-  foundly  betrayed,  B  or  C?  2.  A  lives  seven  blocks  from  the  Laundromat  he  favors.  He  lives  3.8  miles  from  his  psychiatrist,  the  average  time  of  transit  to  whom,  in  thick  aft-  ernoon  traffic,  is  22  minutes.  The  nor-  mal  session,  with  allowances  for  pre-  and  post-therapy  small  talk,  lasts  55  minutes.  The  normal  wash  cycle  in  the  type  of  top-loader  the  Laundromat  favors  runs  for  33  minutes.  The  psy-  chiatrist  and  the  Laundromat  are  in  the  same  outbound  direction.  ProsuEm  :  Can  A  put  his  laundry  in  a  washer  on  the  way  to  his  psychiatrist  and  return  without  finding  his  wet  clothesstolen?  ProsuEms  ror  Extra  CrEpttT:  If  the  time  of  the  psychiatric  appointment  is  3  p.m.,  and  a  city  block  is  considered  to  be  one-eighth  (4)  of  a  mile,  and  if  A  ar-  ranges  the  two  purgative  op-  erations  serially,  placing  the  laundry  second,  and  if,  fur-  ther,  the  drying  cycle  pur-  chasable  for  a  quarter  (25\xc2\xa2)  lasts  a  quarter  of  an  hour  (15  minutes)  and  the  average  load  requires  two  such  cycles  or  else  is  too  damp  to  be  car-  ried  home  without  osmotical-  ly  moistening  the  chest  of  the  carrier,  at  what  time  will  A  be  able  to  pour  himself  a  drink?  Round  to  the  nearest  minute.  Calculate  the  time  for  two  drinks.  Calculate  the  time  for  three,  with  a  wet  chest.  3.  A  has  four  children.  Two  are  in  college,  two  attend  pri-  vate  school.  Annual  college  expenses  amount  to  $6,300  each,  those  of  pri-  vate  school  to  $4,700.  A's  annual  in-  come  is  x.  Three-sevenths  (3/7)  of  x  are  taken  by  taxes,  federal  and  state.  One-third  (1/3)  goes  to  C,  who  is  having  the  driveway  improved.  Total  educational  expenses  are  equivalent  to  five  twenty-firsts  (5/21)  of  x,.  The  cost  each  week  ofa  psychiatric  session  is  $45,  of  a  Laundromat  session  $1.10.  For  purposes  of  computation,  consider  these  A's  only  expenses.  ProsueEm:  How  long  can  A  go  on  like  this?  Round  to  the  nearest  week.  4.  The  price  of  peastone  is  $13  a  cubic  yard.  A  truckload  consists  of  314  cubic  yards.  Cs  driveway  is  8  6&quot;  wide  and  describes  an  ellipse  of  which  the  foci  are  two  old  croquet  stakes  23  yards  apart.  A  line  perpendicular  to  a  line  drawn  between  the  stakes  and  inter-  secting  this  line  at  midpoint  strikes  the  edge  of  the  driveway  in  just  nine  paces,  as  paced  off  by  the  driveway  contrac-  tor.  He  is  a  big  man  and  wears  size-12  shoes.  The  average  desirable  depth,  he  says,  of  peastone  in  a  suburban  driveway  is  one  and  one-half  inches  (1%4&quot;&quot;).  Any  more,  you  get  trough-  ing;  any  less,  you  don't  get  that  deli-  cious  crunching  sound,  like  marbles  be-  ing  swished  in  a  coffee  can.  In  addition  to  the  ellipse  there  is  a  straight  spur  connecting  it  to  Pleasant  Avenue.  The  length  of  the  spur  is  to  the  radius  of  the  ellipse  as  V2  is  to  T.  In  addition  to  the  base  cost  per  truckload  there  is  $10.50  an  hour  for  the  driver,  plus  an  occasional  gratui-tous,  graciously  offered  beer,  @  $1.80  per  six-pack.  :  Why  is  C  doing  all  this?  5,  A's  psychiatrist  thinks  he  is  experi-  encing  growth,  measurable  in  psychic  distance  attained  from  C.  However,  by  Tristan's  Law  appealingness  is  inversely  proportional  to  attainability.  Attainability  is  somewhat  proportional  to  psychic  distance.  As  a  psychic  mass  M  is  reduced  in  apparent  size  by  the  perspectives  of  recession,  its  gravita-  tional  attraction  proportionally  in-  creases.  There  is  a  curve  whereby  grav-  itational  attraction  overpowers  reason,  though  the  apparent  source  of  attrac-  tion  may  be,  like  the  apparent  position  of  all  but  the  nearest  stars,  an  illu-  sion.  Prosuem  :  Plot  this  curve.  Find  the  starlike  point  where  A's  brain  begins  to  bend.  Herprur  Hints:  The  &quot;somewhat&quot;  above  translates  to  3/7.  Midas's  Law:  Possession  diminishes  perception  of  value,  immediately.  6.  B  is  beautiful.  Clear  blue  eyes,  blue  denim  miniskirt,  dear  little  blue  veins  behind  her  silken  knees.  C  is  receding  rapidly,  a  tomato-red  speck  in  an  un-  troubled  azure.  A's  four  children  have  all  been  awarded  scholarships.  His  psy-  chiatrist  has  moved  his  couch  to  wal-  nut-panelled,  shag-carpeted  quarters  above  the  Laundromat,  up  just  one  quick  flight  of  22  steps.  The  price  of  peastone  has  dropped  dramatically,  be-  cause  ofthe  recession.  It  is  a  beautiful  day,  a  bright  blue  Monday.  Progiem:  Something  feels  wrong.  What  is  it?  "