 b"ALTHOUGH  Norman  Mailer,   Wilfrid  Sheed,  Hunter  Thompson,  Garry  Wills,  and  other  boxing  writers  have  been  probing  very  deeply  into  what  does  or  doesn't  make  Muhammad  Ali  tick,  their  heavyweight  scholarship  has  neverthe-  less  had  its  middleweight  spots  and  even  a  lightweight  touch  here  and  there.  Like  so  many  Ali  scholars  be-  fore  them,  all  these  men  have  missed  certain  facets,  sources,  and  side  effects  of  the  great  champion  that  I  happen  to  have  captured  in  my  doctoral  thesis,  &quot;God  and  Man  at  Felt  Forum,&quot;  written  for  the  Department  of  Physical  Educa-  tion  of  Syracuse  University  (UticaCol-  lege).  A  few  of  my  conclusions  are  the  property  of  Women's  Wear  Daily,  but  some  of  the  others  I  can  sum-  marize  here  for  Ali  majors  throughout  the  land.  I.  WHo  or  Wuar  MapE  Aut?  There  has  been  widespread  specula-  tion  lately  in  libraries  and  locker  rooms  about  the  extent  of  Marilyn  Monroe's  influence  on  Ali's  boxing  style.  The  problem  in  exploring  this  theory,  of  course,  is  that  no  one  seems  to  remem-  ber  what  Marilyn  Monroe's  boxing  style  was.  Professor  C.  B.  Granger,  of  Bates,  feels  that  the  primary  influence  on  Ali  wasn't  Marilyn  Monroe  but  Earl  Monroe,  especially  against  Balti-  more.  Professor  C.R.  Krone,  of  Kirk-  land,  however,  seems  to  be  nodding  slightly  toward  Mailer  in  feeling  that  Ali  is  a  metaphor  for  all  the  Monroes  except  Lucy  and  Vaughn.  My  own  con-  clusions,  which  touch  on  the  Monroe  Doctrine  and  how  its  policyof  &quot;hands  off&quot;  can  be  misunderstood  bycontend-  ers,  owe  a  debt  to  C.  E.  Schultz  little-  known  but  remarkable  monograph  on  women  and  heavyweights,  &quot;Joe  Louis's  Radio  Hellos  to  His  Mother.&quot;  II.  Aut's  Lunar  Lert  Are  Ali's  punches  affected  by  the  moon?  Is  the  moon  affected  by  him?  Professor  C.  S.  Schreiber,  of  [REDACTED]  A.  &amp;  M.,  now  seems  to  be  leaning  at  more  than  twenty  degrees  toward  the  belief  that  Ali  fights  better  at  high  tide  than  at  low,  Schreiber  may  very  well  havebroken  new  ground-or  at  least  new  sand-in  the  development  of  Ali  scholarship.  After  examining  almanacs  for  the  last  eleven  years,  I  have  discov-  ered  that  Ali  has  fought  nineteen  times  at  high  tide,  seven  times  at  low,  and  twice  when  the  pollen  count  was  un-  acceptable.  Unfortunately,  this  theory  has  been  clouded  by  the  readings  from  [REDACTED],  where  Ali  won  with  a  high  tide  on  his  left  and  a  brackish  swamp  on  hisright.  III.  Aut  anp  Emmy  Dickinson  The  link  between  Ali  and  Emily  Dickinson  is  entirely  my  own  and  can  no  longer  be  ignored.  Both  of  them  are  poets  with  uncertain  ears,  both  favor  short  lines  of  rhyming  couplets,  and  both  were  born  in  the  last  three  hundred  years.  Moreover,  it  was  clearly  Emily  Dickinson  who  gave  to  Ali  his  entomological  leitmotiv  when  she  wrote,  &quot;To  comprehend  a  nectar  requires  sorest  need.&quot;  Ali's  winged  restatement  of  this  idea-''sting  like  a  bee&quot;-would  havebeen  obvious  to  Cleanth  Brooks  if  he  had  put  in  more  time  at  the  Garden  and  less  in  the  groves  of  academe.  IV.  How  Maxy  Anoruis  Can  Sranp  on  Aut's  HEap?  This  particular  question,  a  richer  blending  of  sport  and  theology  than  a  [REDACTED]  Redskins  devotional,  is  still  up  for  grabs.  Empirical  evidence  tells  us  only  that  Ali's  hat  size  is  734.  Work  on  the  size  of  the  angelshas  just  begun  at  [REDACTED]  State.  V.  Aut's  Ancient  HErrrace  Is  Ali  a  member  of  the  lost  tribes  of  [REDACTED]?  Mailer  feels  that  ultimately  Ali  is  a  Jew;  Wills  and  Sheed  place  him  in  Islam;  and  the  wildlife  editor  of  the  Trenton  Times  feels  he  is  still  a  Baptist  but  also  &quot;a  thinking  grebe.&quot;  Unable  to  wait  for  George  Plimp-  ton's  book  to  answer  this  question,  which  is  haunting  weigh-ins,  I  went  to  Mrs.  Elvira  Kramm,  of  Akron,  [REDACTED],  who  prepares  genealogical  charts  for  three  dollars  each,  with  a  surcharge  of  two-fifty  fora  lost  tribe  of  [REDACTED].  &quot;It's  either  Ali  or  Tony  Canzoneri  who  is  a  member  of  the  tribes,&quot;  Mrs.  Kramm  said  to  me.  &quot;Funny,  a  sports-  writer  named  Max  Lerner  asked  me  the  same  question  just  last  week.&quot;  "