 b"BEAUTY  is  in  the  eye  of  the  be-  holder.  In  the  eye  of  Elfins  the  qualities  considered  to  constitute  beauty  are  slenderness,  narrow  hands  and  feet,  sharp-cut  features  (rather  small  eyes  are  admired),  arched  eye-  brows,  the  finenessof  detail  one  as-  sociates  with  moths  and  butterflies.  These  canons  are  conditioned  by  Elfin  build  and  longevity:  majestic  contours  are  irreconcilable  with  flight,  and  a  jolie-laide  countenance  is  likelier  to  re-  main  charming  over  centuries  than  a  classically  molded  one,  Elfins  are  averse  to  any  variation  from  the  racial  type.  Few  of  them  really  enjoy  Ovid's  &quot;Metamorphoses.&quot;  Above  all,  misce-  genation  with  mortals  is  reprobated  be-  cause  of  its  probable  results-corpu-  lence,  coarse  skin,  broad  smiles,  dimples,  premature  decay,  and  flat  fingernails.  But  from  time  to  time  an  Elfin  may  be  born  who  transcends  the  typical  jolie  laide  of  the  race  by  an  absolute  beauty.  Such  a  one  was  Tiphaine,  of  the  Kingdom  of  Elfhame,  in  [REDACTED],  and  so  was  the  legendary  Morgan  le  Fay.,  Nel,  of  the  Kingdom  of  Pomace,  in  Herefordshire,  was  another  of  these  shining  exceptions.  Her  parents,  re-  spectable  members  of  the  lesser  aris-  tocracy,  looked  at  each  other  with  amazement,  unable  to  account  for  her.  They  expected  her  to  vanish  like  a  rainbow.  But  she  throve,  and  took  her-  self  easily,  and  accepted  admiration  with  no  more  fluster  or  false  demur  than  one  of  the  thousand  daisies  on  a  lawn  accepts  the  dew.  In  the  same  modest,  matter-of-course  spirit  she  ac-  cepted  an  admiring  husband.  It  was  a  resplendent  match.  Hamlet  was  fault-  lessly  well-bred,  wealthy,  intelligent,  honorable,  an  orphan.  In  his  youth,  de-  spite  these  advantages,  he  was  looked  at  askance  by  the  staider  Elfins  of  Pomace,  who,  enjoying  a  sheltered  climate  and  a  traditional  calm,  did  not  like  excesses.  Ordinary  libertinism  they  would  not  have  objected  to:  Hamlet  was  a  mental  libertine.  He  founded  the  Pomacean  Society  for  Unregulated  Speculation,  which,  meeting  at  irregu-  lar  intervals-in  itself  subversive-dis-  cussed  such  subjects  as  Sleeping  Out-of-  Doors,  Compulsive  Gymnastics  for  All  Ages,  the  Badness  of  Good  Taste.  Aft-  er  lecturing  on  Mortals  and  Their  Future,  he  put  it  to  a  vote:  That  Mor-  tals  Are  More  Interesting  Than  Elf-  ins,  When  even  his  most  committed  disciples  rejected  this,  he  put  another  motion:  That  Elfins  Are  Not  Inter-  esting.  After  three  hours  of  debate,  the  members  of  the  Pomacean  Society  went  home  chanting  the  national  anthem  sciolto  e  fortissimo,  and  next  day  were  officially  required  to  consider  them-  selves  dissolved.  Hamlet  then  founded  the  Pomacean  Society  for  Promoting  Dissolution,  tired  of  it,  dissolved  it,  and  went  to  visit  his  Great-Aunt  [REDACTED]  at  La  Recondita,  her  estate  in  the  Apennines.  [REDACTED]  was  a  lady  of  his-  toric  gallantries.  She  deplored  Hamlet's  rusticity-blaming  it  on  his  upbringing  in  Pomace,  a  provincial  Kingdom  in  a  clownish  country-and,  having  noth-  ing  else  on  hand  at  the  moment,  set  herself  to  comb  it  out  of  him.  For  six  months  he  wrote  a  Petrarchan  sonnet  daily,  alternately  amorous  or  pastoral,  practiced  the  man\xc3\xa9ge  on  a  winged  horse-a  rare  animal,  out  of  the  Astol-  fine  stable-and  learned  the  scandals  of  every  Elfin  family  of  distinction.  After  the  one  hundred  and  twenty-  third  sonnet  she  thought  him  adequate-  ly  combed,  gave  him  letters  of  intro-  duction,  and  sent  him  off  to  make  the  Grand  Tour.  In  Foligno  he  was  so  entranced  by  a  travelling  puppet  theatre  that  he  fol-  lowed  it  from  city  to  city,  disregarding  cascades,  Roman  arches,  vistas,  Vesu-  vius,  the  [REDACTED]  Library,  for  the  pleas-  ure  of  seeing  [REDACTED]  furiously  raving  with  an  unmoved  white  calico  face.  He  came  home  supposing  that  this  kind  of  ludicrous  high-flownness  could  be  found  only  under  Italian  skies,  and  quite  accidentally,  on  a  wet  day,  dis-  covered  the  theatre  of  his  native  land,  performing  at  the  top  of  its  voice,  in  an  innyard  of  the  county  town,  Forget,  tingthat  he  had  gone  to  watch  the  races,  he  stood  entranced,  listening  to  squeaking  empresses  and  bellowing  tyrants,  spectres  with  hiccups,  malig-  nant  Jews  with  a  sturdy  Midlands  accent,  and  watching  victims  of  the  plot  flump  to  the  ground  like  a  shower  of  acorns.  And  all  of  them  mortals  stuffed  with  beating  hearts  and  fiery  livers  and  intricated  guts  instead  of  sheep's  wool.  Only  mortals  could  be  so majestically  and  endearingly  absurd.  Like  him,  they  were  there  for  the  races,  and  moved  on.  [REDACTED]  had  done  such  marvels  for  Hamlet  that  he  had  been  appointed  Regulator  of  Court  Festivities;  there  was  no  need  to  fol-  low  as  he  had  done  in  4974616c79.  He  be-  came  an  anonymous  patron  of  the  drama  by  sending  one  of  his  pages  nightly  to  disquiet  the  local  lord  may-  or's  slumbers  with  a  gigantic  badger,  threatening  disclosures  and  ruin  unless  The  Spotted  Cow  was  given  a  covered  gallery  and  a  covered  stage  with  two  trapdoors  and  a  thunder  machine.  This  done,  Hamlet  (excusing  himself  from  Court  on  the  ground  of  an  intermit-  tent  fever  caught  in  the  Pontine  Marshes)  regularly  attended  perform-  ances  at  The  Spotted  Cow.  They  were  frequent,  thunder  machines  being  rare  in  the  provinces.  After  his  marriage,  Nel  went  with  him.  The  fact  that  she  took  the  action  seriously  and  only  regretted  thatthe  actors  were  so  badly  dressed  made  her  companionship  even  dearer,  and  as  they  sat  invisibly  in  the  gallery  he  would  gather  her  to  him  when  anything  par-  ticularly  ludicrous  happened  on  the  stage,  and  hug  her  loveliness  and  his  low  taste  simultaneously.  These  esca-  pades  came  to  an  end.  There  was  an  outbreak  of  plague,  then  of  morality,  and  the  theatres  were  closed  by  order.  When  the  order  was  rescinded  and  the  travelling  players  came  once  more,  Hamlet  was  in  attendance  on  the  Queen,  indispensably  regulating  a  con-  versazione.  He  bore  his  disappointment  so  gracefully  that  Nel  said  she  would  go  to  the  opening  performance  alone,  to  give  him  an  account  of  it.  She  had  an  answer  to  all  his  objections.  She  would  plead  her  belly  as  an  excuse  for  absence  from  the  afternoon  assembly.  She  was  no  more  with  child  than  she  had  ever  been,  and  Elfin  pregnancies  are  so  infrequent  that  hers  would  have  been  in  the  Court  Circular;  but  the  excuse  was  a  formality  employed  by  every  lady  at  Court.  In  case  anything  went  wrong  with  her  invisibility,  she  would  wear  a  mask.  If  he  insisted  on  a  chaperon,  she  would  take  her  lady's  maid,  vowed  to  secrecy.  At  the  thought  of  a  lady's  maid  vowed  to  secrecy  over  his  legitimate  foible  of  low  taste,  Hamlet's  self-respect  revolted,  Nel  went  alone.  It  was  asultry  afternoon.  The  bird-  less  silence  of  July  intimidated  her;  she  would  have  been  glad  of  the  lady's  maid.  As  she  took  her  place  in  the  gal-  lery,  what  hadseemed  an  adventure  darkened  into  an  ordeal.  The  coach-  man  had  got  her  there  too  early;  noth-  " b"ing  was  goingon  except  some  thump-  ings.  Her  mask  stifled  her.  The  blood  drummed  in  her  ears;  she  would  not  be  able  to  hear  a  word  the  players  said.  And  without  Hamlet's  expression  to  guide  her  how  was  she  to  know  where  to  be  amused?  The  house  was  begin-  ning  to  fill  up,  the  smell  of  mortals  rose  from  the  pit,  there  were  voices  and  repartees  all  around  her,  and  a  boy  in  a  butcher's  apron  was  being  successfully  impertinent  to  a  fatjolly  woman,  declaring  she  was  his  idol  and  the  queen  of  his  heart.  Nel  gave  her-  self  a  shake.  She  must  fix  her  whole  attention  on  the  play  and  remember  everything  in  order  to  give  Hamlet  an  exact  report  when  they  were  together  again  that  evening.  Perhaps  looking  through  the  eyeholes  of  the  mask  would  clarify  what  was  going  on.  The  cornet  player  and  the  drummer  fin-  ished  their  flourish.  A  red-haired  young  mortal  in  pink  came  forward  and  spoke  a  speech  about  Destiny.  He  was  destined  to  unhappiness.  So  far,  so  good.  ...  The  play  was  over.  The  spectators  were  leaving.  A  boy  with  a  tray  of  pots  of  beer  came  onto  the  stage.  The  actors,  wiping  the  sweat  and  the  greasepaint  off  their  faces,  gathered  round  him  and  drank.  A  cracked  look-  ing  glass  hung  on  a  side  screen,  where  the  players,  making  their  entrance,  were  in  the  habit  of  taking  a  quick  glance  at  themselves,  and  the  young  man  in  pink  was  at  this  moment  star-  ing  into  it.  Lovely  as  Adonis,  he  had  tripped  over  a  cat,  missed  two  cues,  sneezed  in  the  peroration  of  a  speech  of  defiance,  had  very  little  applause,  and  hurt  his  back  in  a  death  fall.  A  skirt  rustled  behind  him.  He  turned  and  saw  a  ladytaking  off  her  mask.  Her  face  was  sobeautiful  that  he  al-  most  forgot  his  own.  In  a  low  hurried  voice  she  began  to  praise  his  courage  under  misfortune,  to  beg  him  not  to  despair.  Ungloving  her  hand,  she  pulled  off  a  ring  and  gave  it  to  him,  saying  it  was  akeepsake.  Not  for  noth-  ing  had  he  played  Joseph  in  a  religious  drama,  leaving  ablue  taffeta  cloak  in  the  clasp  of  Potiphar's  wife  and  re-  buking  her  in  fleshings.  Here  was  an-  other  of  them-one  of  those  grand  ladies,  shameless  and  glorious.  He  lis-  tened  to  her  directions.  He  was  to  take  seven  turns  to  the  left,  jump  the  brook,  and  come  in  by  a  garden  gate.  Before  he  could  answer,  she  was  gone.  He  looked  disdainfully  at  the  group  of  beer  drinkers.  It  was  the  garden  gate  of  her  par-  ents'  home  and  led  into  their  kitchen  garden-an  unintimidating  entrance,  Nel  judged.  Even  so,  he  opened  it  un-  easily:  he  suspected  she  was  not  all  she  seemed-or  was  more.  A  carrot  fell  on  him  from  above.  It  had  slipped  from  the  apron  of  a  fairy  flying  brisk-  ly  overhead.  He  had  decided  on  a  pru-  dent  departure  when  he  saw  her  run-  ning  toward  him,  shameless  and  glori-  ous,  with  her  finger  on  her  lips.  A  little  later,  her  uncle,  who  was  eating  gooseberries  at  the  farther  end  of  the  garden,  heard  a  sharp  cry  of  delight,  thought  he  recognized  Nel's  voice,  looked  round,  and  saw  her  heels  in  the  air.  Remembering  the  joys  of  his  youth,  he  began  to  sing  a  villanelle.  A  gardener  burst  through  a  line  of  French  beans,  and  attacked  the  young  man  with  ahoe,  shouting,  &quot;Get  out,  you  dirty  marauding  mortal,  you!&quot;  The  young  man  fled.  But  it  was  too  late.  Nel  became  pregnant.  Everyone  pitied  her.  Attempts  were  made  to  procure  an  abortion  with  the  renowned  decoction  from  the  bark  and  leaves  of  the  savin  tree=-a  species  of  juniper.  Her  burden  could  not  be  dislodged.  She  went  her  full  term-  growing  unrecognizably  hideous,  her  face  peaked,  her  legs  swollen,  her  ex-  istence  reduced  to  an  appurtenance  of  her  enormous  womb,  The  birth  of  the  first  child  rent  her  in  pieces;  she  was  already  dying  when  a  second  child  was  born.  They  were  both  boys,  wingless,  " b"and  plainly  mortal.  Washed  and  swad-  dled,  they  were  carried  to  Hamlet  to  be  named.  &quot;Gog  and  Magog!&quot;  he  ex-  claimed.  Looking  out  of  his  misery,  he  saw  the  midwife  was  affronted.  &quot;Call  them  Castor  and  Pollux,&quot;  he  said,  and  signed  for  them  to  be  taken  away.  It  had  been  hoped  that  they  would  be  born  dead-failing  that,  snuffed  out  by  a  little  timely  neglect.  But  noth-  ing  had  been  organized:  it  was  as  though  the  calamity  so  long  foreseen  had  taken  them  by  surprise.  Nel's  parents  were  stupid  with  grief,  Hamlet  in  agonies  of  earache.  It  was  left  to  the  midwife  to  take  command.  Mercilessly  professional,  she  gave  them  every  care.  She  had  never  delivered  a  demi-mortal  before,  and  these  were  demi-mortal  twins;  she  was  determined  they  should  live  to  her  glory.  They  were  strong,  healthy  infants,  matched  like  carriage  horses.  No  Elfin  will  suckle  a  mortal  child:  itis  believed  to  cause  warts  on  the  breast.  Mortal  wet  nurses  were  found,  and  the  midwife  stayed  on  to  supervise  the  nursery.  Nel's  parents,  Sir  Bartle  and  Dame  Petronel,  found  they  must  take  on  the  duties  of  grandparents,  for  Hamlet  was  clos-  ing  his  establishment  and  going  to  [REDACTED]-  where  he  had  no  rela-  tives.  The  midwife  re-  sented  having  toquit  Hamlet's  mansion  for  Sir  Bartle's  modest  residence,  butkept  up  her  self-respect  by  as-  suring  her  friends  that  it  would  be  much  wholesomer  for  Castor  and  Pollux  to  be  reared  in  a  humble  home,  and  letting  it  be  generally  understood  that  she  was  prepared  to  put  up  with  any-  thing  for  the  dear  chil-  dren's  sake.  The  move  was  made,  and  society  sighed  with  relief  to  know  that  everything  was  comfortably  settled  and  that  henceforth  the  unfortunate  affair  could  be  forgotten  and  life  be  happy  and  ra-  tional  again.  What's  done  is  done;  it  is  vul-  gar  to  dwell  on  the  past.  Bartle  and  Petronel,  dwelling  in  the  pres-  ent,  found  that  the  duties  of  grandparents  consisted  in  having  no  duties  per-  mitted  them,  in  asking  no  questions,  making  no  demands,  querying  no  ex-  penses,  never  setting  foot  in  the  nursery  except  by  invitation,  and  for  the  rest  ofthe  time  being  seen  and  not  heard.  Bartle  took  to  breeding  pigeons;  their  voices  condoled  with  him  without  ref-  crence  to  his  loss.  In  his  private  heart,  he  blamed  everything  on  his  son-in-  law.  Petronel  blamed  no  one;  she  merely  grieved,  and  then  grieved  on  because  with  the  passage  of  time  her  original  grief  had  lost  its  intensity.  On  the  day  the  midwife  sent  word  that  Castor  and  Pollux  must  be  measured  for  their  first  boots,  it  reasserted  its  hold  on  her.  Mortal  children,  already  old  enough  for  boots,  they  would  grow  up,  grow  old,  die  in  their  puny  lon-  gevity  of  threescore!  And  the  last  rem-  nant  of  Nel,  the  last  possibility  of  see-  ing  a  glance  like  hers,  would  be  gone.  She  leaped  to  her  feet,  ran  to  the  nurs-  ery,  and  went  in  without  so  much  as  knocking  on  the  door.  &quot;Now  that  the  children  are  old  enough  for  boots,  they  won't  need  you  any  longer.&quot;  Inter-  rupting  an  outcry  about  devotion  and  dependence,  she  said,  &quot;You  are  dis-  missed,&quot;  and  left  the  nursery  with  shaking  knees  and  a  calm  expression.  That  evening,  the  midwife  expressed  her  devotion  to  the  children  by  at-  tempting  their  lives.  Burges,  the  butler,  was  bringing  her  usual  nightcap  of  honeydew  and  hot  milk  to  the  nursery  when  he  heard  Castor  scream  with  ter-  ror.  The  door  was  locked.  He  broke  it  open.  Her  hands  were  round  Castor's  throat  and  Pollux's  teeth  were  set  in  the  calf  of  her  leg.  She  let  go  with  one  hand  to  smack  with  the  other.  Castor  writhed  out  of  her  grasp  and  hid  under  a  table;  Pollux  sank  his  teeth  deeper  into  her  leg  and  growled.  Even  when  the  butler  had  knocked  her  out,  Pollux  held  on  with  a  bulldog's  grip.  Not  till  the  butler  had  picked  up  the  fainting  Castor  and  said,  &quot;Come  on,  Master  Pollux,  we're  going  down  to  my  pantry,&quot;  did  Pollux  relax  his  hold,  lift  a  face  streaming  with  the  midwife's  blood,  and  smile.  It  was  after  this  that  the  household  began  to  remark  on  how  much  the  brothers  seemed  to  love  each  other.  The  wonder  spread  to  other  house-  holds  and  rose  by  cap-  illary  attraction  from  kitchens  to  drawing  rooms,  where  the  bond  of  love  between  the  twins  provided  a  soothing  new  theme  for  conversation.  Bar-  tle,  to  his  annoyance,  Petronel,  to  her  sur-  prise,  found  themselves  congratulated  on  their  ownership  of  those  in-  teresting  children.  Vis-  iting  ladies  brought  toys-identical  but  dis-  tinguished  by  red  or  blue  bows.  When  the  twins  were  extricated  from  their  private  life  and  brought  into  be  grateful,  their  size  proved  disconcerting.  It  was  plain  they  had  outgrown  toy  lambs.  Till  now,  Castor  and  Pollux  had  not  been  aware  they  loved  each  other.  Publicly  as-  sured  of  it,  they  felt  con-  strained  and  began  to  quarrel.  Without  any  distinct  idea  who  the  enemy  was,  each  felt  the  other  had  gone  over  to  the  enemy.  With  the  midwife,  they  knew  where  they  were:  " b"she  was  food,  clothing,  a  hand  scrub-  bing  their  faces  and  yanking  tangles  out  of  their  hair,  a  familiar  scolding  voice  that  grew  maudlin  at  bedtime,  a  beset-  ting  providence.  And  in  a  flash  she  was  gone,  and  they  were  pitchforked  into  a  world  of  Elfin  smells,  Elfin  voices,  Elfin  caresses  that  tickled;  a  world  where  they  stuck  out,  large  and  lone-  ly,  and  always  knocking  things  over.  If  Castor  had  not  screamed,  if  Pollux  had  not  bitten,  if  Burgeshad  not  inter-  vened,  she  might  be  with  them  now  and  all  be  usual  and  secure.  Burges  was  no  substitute;  he  was  always  busy.  'They  moped  and  squabbled  and  were  told  they  loved  each  other  and  would  be  much  happier  now  she  was  gone.  And,  with  nothing  to  cling  to,  they  clung  to  each  other  in  fury  and  despair.  Their  grandparents  also  were  at  a  loss  without  the  midwife.  She  had  mo-  nopolized  the  children  and  tried  to  murder  them,  had  allowed  them  to  pick  their  noses  and  talk  with  their  mouths  full,  stamp  and  shout;  but  un-  derher  rule  at  least  they  were  heard  and  not  seen.  Neither  child  had  the  smallest  resemblance  to  Nel;  neither  showed  a  trace  of  Elfinblood.  The  thought  of  their  mortality  afforded  Bartle  an  illicit  satisfaction.  Even  if  they  survived  measles  (they  had  won  through  all  the  other  diseases  of  mortal  childhood),  their  survival  would  not  entail  more  than  a  few  decades  of  en-  durance:  they  could  be  lived  down.  Something  would  have  to  be  settled  about  their  brief  future.  Meanwhile,  they  grew.  They  developed  measles  simultane-  ously  and  simultaneously  recovered.  By  law,  they  were  Hamlet's  chil-  dren.  Since  Hamlet  had  gone  to  [REDACTED],  no  word  had  come  from  him.  &quot;I  wonder  if  Lady  Elissa  could  put  her  finger  on  him,&quot;  Bartle  saidto  Pet-  ronel.  &quot;'She  goes  in  for  crystal  gazing.&quot;  Petronel  replied  that  Elissa  had  giv-  en  up  her  crystal  ball.  Staring  into  it  had  given  her  so  much  eyestrain  that  she  looked  like  a  bloodhound.  Why  didn't  he  ask  Master  Caraway?  &quot;Ask  who?&quot;  Castor  and  Pollux,  in  all  the  vigor  of  convalescence,  were  playing  table  tennis  overhead.  &quot;Master  Caraway.  Hamlet  left  him  in  charge  of  his  affairs,  you  remem-  ber.&quot;  Bartle  said  it  was  an  idea  and  he'd  think  about  it.  The  idea  of  applying  to  his  son-in-  law's  rascally  solicitor  was  unpleasing,  and  he  thought  of  it  as  little  as  possible.  The  twins  grew;  so  did  the  cost  of  their  upkeep.  Petronel  spoke  of  selling  her  pearls.  Bartle  swallowed  his  pride and  visited  Master  Caraway's  office,  which  was  as  orderly  as  a  shark's  teeth.  Master  Caraway  assumed  what  Bartle  called  his  abracadabra  airs  and  pressed  a  button.  A  drawer  sprang  open  and  Master  Caraway  took  out  a  letter  from  Hamlet.  Hamlet  had  tired  of  Attica  and  was  going  to  a  small  islandcalled  Orplid.  &quot;He  may  be  there  by  now,&quot;  said  Master  Caraway,  looking  at  his  spotless  fingernails.  &quot;Where  is  this  Orplid?&quot;  &quot;'That  I  cannot  say.  Being  an  island,  one  presumes  itis  in  the  sea.  But  one  can't  be  positive.  If  you  feel  any  un-  easiness,  Sir  Bartle,  I  can  assure  you  Lord  Hamlet's  affairs  are  in  a  very  satisfactory  state.  It  is  a  pleasure  to  administer  them.&quot;  &quot;'Those  two  boys  of  his-they're  growing  up,  you  know.&quot;  Only  his  dislike  of  Master  Caraway  and  the  warming  prospect  of  wrenching  money  out  of  him  overcame  Bartle's  reluc-  tance  to  ask  for  it.  &quot;'Two  boys-&quot;  The  solicitor  ap-  peared  to  scan  a  horizon  of  boys.  &quot;'T  wo  boys.  Exactly.&quot;  Like  one  recalled  from  a  higher  universe,  he  pressed  another  button.  Another  drawer  sprang  open,  and  he  took  outa  wad  of  receipts  and  handed  it  to  Bartle.  &quot;I  think  you  will  find  them  in  order.&quot;  The  midwife  was  still  being  paid  her  wages.  As  Bartle  reached  home  he  heard  an  outburst  of  cheering.  When  Burges  opened  the  door  he  was  out  of  breath,  and  explained  that  he  had  been  to  see  if  the  pigeons  were  all  right.  The  young  gentlemen  were  wrestling  in  the  lime-tree  court  and  the  working  fairies  were  watching  them,  cheering  them  on  and  betting  on  the  upshot;  with  so  much  noise  and  fluttering  of  wings,  he  was  afraid  the  sitting  birds  might  be  scared  off  their  nests.  There  was  another  burst  of  cheering.  Bartle  hurried  to  the  defense  of  his  pigeons  and  instantly  forgot  them  in  the  beauty  of  what  he  saw.  Castor  and  Pollux  were  wrestling  naked.  From  head  to  foot  they  were  happiness,  Their  stat-  ure,  their  long  identical  limbs,  their  matched  expressions  of  fierce,  unwavy-  ering  gaiety  existed  in  a  world  of  their  own  and  a  moment  they  were  born  for.  As  they  clasped  and  eluded,  locked  " b"and  slid  apart,  forced  one  another  down,  pliable  as  willow  wands,  and  pliable  as  willow  wands  sprang  up  again,  it  seemed  as  though  they  would  wrestle  forever,  as  a  brook  flows,  chid-  ing,  in  a  rocky  channel.  Elfins  are  incapable  of  repentance-  a  fortunate  provision,  in  view  of  their  longevity.  Bartle's  delight  in  the  beauty  of  the  wrestlers  was  untrammelled  by  recollecting  he  had  thought  of  them,  not  an  hour  before,  as  the  ungainly  louts  he  carried  as  a  disgrace  and  a  burden  and  hoped  to  get  rid  of.  The  sordid  annoyance  of  his  visit  to  Cara-  way's  office  was  wiped  out.  Nothing  mattered  except  what  was  going  on    before  his  eyes.  He  heard  himself  cheering,  and  Burges  asking  him  if  he  had  ever  seen  the  like  of  it.  &quot;How  did  they  come  by  it?&quot;  Bartle  asked.  &quot;How  did  they  learn?&quot;  Burges  re-  plied  that  he  had  given  them  a  hint  or  two,  but  most  of  it  came  by  nature.  Mysteriously  consenting,  the  wres-  tlers  let  go  and  slipped  to  the  ground,  where  they  lay  panting  and  sprawling,  pulling  each  other's  hair  and  pretend-  ing  to  quarrel.  A  groom  hurried  for-  ward  with  towels  and  rubbed  them  down.  It  was  suddenly  evening.  Shafts  of  light  drifted  through  the  lime  trees;  the  smell  of  lime  blossom  filled  the  air.  The  pigeons  flustered  a  little,  and     settled  to  sleep.  Castor  and  Pollux  walked  toward  the  house  with  their  arms  round  each  other's  necks.  Deep  in  conversation,  they  noticed  no  one.  &quot;I  could  have  watched  them  for-  ever,&quot;  said  Petronel,  who  had  seen  it  all  from  her  window;  and  she  de-  scribed  the  match  from  its  beginning,  and  how  at  one  moment  Castor  had  hooked  his  leg  round  Pollux's  knees  and  almost  thrown  him.  Bartle  men-  tioned  Burges's  boast  about  having  giv-  en  a  few  hints.  &quot;Oh,  but  that-&quot;  She  stopped,  and  looked  confused.  &quot;Burges  gives  himself  too  much  credit.  The  truth  is,  they  went  off  without  telling  anyone,  visited  a  fair,  and  saw  two  " b"mountebanks  wrestling.  And  wh  en  th  e  mounte  ba  nks  asked  if  an  yone  woul  d  like  to  h  ave  a  try,  Pollux  jump  ed  at  i  t.  He  could  s  carcely  mo  ve  next  morn  in  g,  poor  Pollux  !  But  I  b  elieve  they  we  n  t  back  and  had  some  sort  of  lessons.  I  thought  I'd  told  yo  u  .  B  y  the  way,  what  ab  out  Ha  mlet?  &quot;  Bar  tle  sa  id  he  woul  d  neve  r  go  nea  r  th  e  lawye  r  again.  Petronel  appl  auded  the  d  eci  s  ion  ,  and  con  tinued,  &quot;So  I've  de  cide  d  what  to  do  with  my  pe  a  rl  s  .  I  sh  all  sel  l  them,  a  nd  buy  two  riding  ho  r  se  s  .  The  y  've  far  out  g  row  n  th  e  ir  po  n  ie  s  .  Do  n  't  you  agree?&quot;  The  riding  horses  were  b  ou  g  ht  .  C  ast  o  r  and  Pol  l  ux  moun  ted  and  rode  away.  Noth  i  ng  more  was  h  ear  d  of  them.  A  dve  r  tis  e  men  t  s  were  pos  te  d  on  trees,  rewards  were  offered,  Lady  Elissa  strai  ned  h  er  ey  es;  al  l  was  in  va  i  n.  Finally  ,  Queen  Annot  he  rsel  f  was  i  n-  vo  k  ed  .  In  her  heyd  ay  (s  he  was  a  g  re  a  t  age)  she  had  b  een  renowned  for  Divi-  nation  and  Art  Magic,  and  made  th  em  fashionable  at  Court.  N  ow  she  c  au  s  ed  wormwood,  tansy,  and  white  lavender  to  be  b  urned  on  a  h  ot  plate,  and  cast  h  ers  e  lf  into  a  trance.  A  fter  a  d  ay  and  a  night,  the  ladies  watching  her  hear  d  her  cry  i  n  the  voice  of  one  far  distant,  &quot;Cantuar!  Ebor!&quot;  But  the  s  pir  it  s  s  he  calle  d  on  did  n  ot  comply,  fo  r  whe  n  she  woke  m  uc  h  lat  e  r,  blinking  and  s  miling  ,  and  asked  for  a  bow  l  of  bread  and  milk,  she  brought  nothing  out  of  her  sleep  and  did  not  know  how  the  words  came  to  be  spoken.  Her  loyal  fellow-adepts  explained  that  mortal  grossness  resists  Art  Magic:  Castor  and  Pollux  were  in-  sufficiently  El  f  in  t  o  be  div  in  e  d.  It  w  as  a  di  ffer  en  t  m  atte  r  wit  h  Hamlet.  He  came  bac  k  at  short  notice,  bu  t  preced  ed  himself  in  several  pe  opl  e'  s  dreams.  Elissa's  bow  erwoma  n,  polishing  the  crystal  ball,  ha  d  seen  him  sailing  up  t  he  Se  v  ern  i  n  a  gondola  drawn  by  two  swans,  b  ut  said  nothing  a  bou  t  it  a  t  t  he  tim  e  ,  a  s  s  he  did  no  t  want  to  be  t  ho  u  ght  a  trespasser  on  her  m  istr  es  s's  dom  ain.  Tha  nks  to  an  admi  r  able  house-  kee  per,  Hamle  t's  h  ous  e  was  rea  d  y  for  him  to  walk  into;  all  that  ne  eded  to  be  done  was  to  put  the  warming  p  an  into  his  bed,  and  prepare  a  quic  k  ban-  q  UC  t  .  By  the  time  he  lay  down  i  n  i  t,  his  be  d  wa  s  col  d.  Midnight  sounded  be  -  fore  he  could  get  r  id  o  f  his  w  elc  om  ing  gu  e  st  s  -a  l  l  of  t  hem  disconcerti  ngly  un  -  c  h  a  nged.  W  he  n  they  w  ere  gone  ,  he  st  rolled  ab  out  the  house,  go  i  ng  from  r  oom  to  ro  o  m  an  d  everywhere  coming  on  pr  ese  nt  s  w  hi  c  h  he  had  given  Nel,  which  Nel  had  gi  ven  him  :  p  res  en  ts  of  t  he  m  om  e  nt  ,  whether  precious  or  tri  v  i-  al,  for  the  y  ha  d  sco  rned  to  be  sensible.  All  the  d  is  o  rder  of  h  er  dying  had  b  e  en  c  le  ared  away  from  the  r  oo  m  she  died  i  n.  Ne  ver  in  h  is  mi  n  d  had  she  ceased  t  o  be  dead,  and  she  r  ema  i  ned  a  s  de  ad  as  e  ve  r  .  He  had  seen  his  p  are  n  ts-  in  -la  w  at  the  im  pro  m  ptu  ban  q  uet  -B  art  l  e  the  sam  e  old  stick,  Pe  tronel  th  e  sam  e  c  om  -  po  u  nd  of  the  go  od,  the  silly,  and  the  sly.  There  were  notes  in  her  voice,  particularly  when  she  wished  to  seem  impressed  and  wasn't  attending,  which  she  had  in  common  with  Nel.  As  she  was  questioning  him  about  Orplid  and  the  strangeness  of  living  on  an  island,    he  he  ard  them  again.  He  h  ad  said  nothing  ab  out  th  o  se  mon  strous  inf  a  nts  ,  Go  g  a  n  d  Magog.  It  was  t  o  be  hop  e  d  t  he  y  were  dead.  No  one  re  f  er  r  ed  to  them.  But  i  n  Pomace  disple  a  s  i  ng  sub  j  ect  s  wer  e  peaceably  i  gnor  e  d,  s  o  this  av  o  idance  mi  ght  just  as  w  el  l  indica  te  tha  t  t  hey  were  alive  .  A  fte  r  a  wh  i  le  ,  he  ask  e  d  M  a  ste  r  Caraway  wha  t  had  bec  om  e  of  the  m  ,  a  nd  wa  s  told  that  t  hey  had  grown  up  typica  l  ly  m  ortal:  noi  sy  ,  a  nd  oversized.  Th  e  y  were  sai  d  to  love  ea  ch  o  th  e  r.  Some  t  ime  ago,  they  had  gone  o  ff.  Nothin  g  had  b  een  h  ear  d  o  f  th  e  m  si  n  ce.  That  sh  ould  have  been  good  enough.  T  hey  w  er  e  no  t  hi  n  g  to  him  ;  t  h  e  y  e  xisted  only  as  an  old  rusty  pain.  Y  et  s  in  c  e  h  is  r  etur  n  he  had  been  teas  ed  by  a  n  uneasy  curiosity  ab  ou  t  them  -as  thou  gh  there  were  some  but-  ton  left  unfast  e  ned.  T  o  set  h  is  mind  a  t  r  est,  h  e  i  nvited  P  et  ronel  to  see  hi  s  roses.  Betw  ee  n  pick-  ing  a  mus  k  rose  a  nd  a  damask  he  said,  &quot;  Forg  i  ve  me  if  th  e  subject  is  p  ai  n  fu  l  .  Bu  t  what  bec  ame  of  t  ho  s  e  ch  i  ld  r  en  ?  Are  t  hey  aliv  e?  &quot;  She  d  rop  pe  d  th  e  ro  s  es  and  wrung  her  hands.  &quot;  I  do  n  't  k  now,  I  d  on  't  know!  It  was  a  ll  my  st  u  pi  d  ity.  T  he  y  lo  o  ke  d  so  hand  s  ome  tha  t  I  g  a  v  e  each  of  them  a  h  ors  e.  And  w  e  ne  ver  saw  t  hem  a  gain.&quot;  &quot;Were  t  hey  good  ri  d  ers?  &quot;  \xc2\xab''Th  ey  rode  as  i  f  the  y  were  gods.&quot;  So  t  he  y  we  r  e  ba  ck  aga  i  n,  disguised  as  th  e  rider  s  he  had  a  dmired  on  the  Parthenon  ,  aloof  in  nak  ed  san  g-  fro  id  ab  ove  t  he  jostling  Turk  s  below.  It  was  t  o  rid  his  mi  nd  of  the  Turk  s  t  ha  t  he  had  g  one  to  O  rpli  d.  Its  in  habitants  had  an  interesting  be  l  ie  f  tha  t  th  ey  w  er  e  d  ei  -  t  i  e  s  .  Their  pla  cid  en  e  rg  i  es  were  de  -  voted  t  o  a  gric  u  lture;  they  talked  of  v  in  es  and  o  li  ves,  fl  ock  s  a  nd  herds,  of  w  he  n  th  ey  sho  u  ld  irr  igat  e  th  e  mea  d-  ows.  Th  e  y  were  remar  ka  bly  we  ath  e  r-  wi  s  e.  I  t  st  r  uc  k  him  th  at  t  he  y  were  sur-  vivors  from  a  prehi  storic  El  f  in  soc  i  ety  ,  Elfins  who  ha  d  yet  to  develop  wings,  i  nt  e  llec  t  ,  invisibi  lity,  a  nd  p  roperty-for  t  he  y  hel  d  e  ve  rything  in  common.  Ha  m  let  had  nev  e  r  l  iv  e  d  i  n  t  he  countr  y  .  A  t  f  ir  s  t  h  e  was  ch  arme  d  b  y  th  is  sub-  stantiati  on  of  p  astora  l  poet  ry  -ris  ing  at  dayb  r  eak  t  o  walk  baref  oot  thr  o  ugh  dew  y  gras  s,  d  oin  g  a  little  weed  i  ng,  ca  ting  goat's-m  ilk  che  e  se.  H  e  d  id  not  d  is  c  ov  e  r  how  bo  red  he  was  growing  till  he  met  Hecate,  who  sat  on  a  head-  land  looking  out  to  sea  with  her  distaff  idle  beside  her.  She  was  a  deity,  too,  but  had  seen  something  of  the  world  and  had  more  conversation.  She  taught  him  several  spells.  When  her  spindle  had  its  full  load  of  yarn,  she  said,  he  " b"must  go.  When  next  he  visited  her,  the  spindle  was  full.  &quot;Farewell,  Goddess.&quot;  &quot;Farewell,  Elfin.&quot;  Her  low-pitched,  rasping  voice  hung  in  his  mind,  and  the  spells  stayed  on  with  it.  Perhaps  it  was  for  the  last  spell  she  taught  him  that  he  had  trav-  elled  and  returned.  It  was  a  Summon-  ing  Spell  and  would  bring  him  anyone  he  wished  to  see,  whether  from  this  world  or  the  world  beneath.  He  had  neglected  to  ask  her  for  a  Dismissing  Spell.  If  Castor  and  Pollux  came  to  ap-  pease  his  curiosity,  from  the  face  of  the  earth  or  beneath  a  mound  of  it,  it  might  be  awkward  if  they  couldnot  be  got  rid  of.  Two  gigantic  footmen,  dogging  his  heels  .  .  .  a  stink  of  corruption  chok-  ing  him...  But  his  curiosity  had  grown  so  overmastering  that  he  recited  the  spell.  What  leisure  time  he  had  during  the  next  two  days  he  spent  memorizing  it  back-  ward.  He  was  word  per-  fect  and  calling  himself  a  fool  when  his  major-  domo  asked  leave  to  tell  him  that  two  mortals  were  sitting  on  the  steps  of  the  entrance  of  hon-  or:  that  they  refused  to  go  away,  and  children  were  throwing  stones  at  them,  which  might  crack  the  marble.  &quot;Show  them  in.&quot;  He  heard  their  foot-  steps  approaching.  They  were  wearing  cheap  boots  that  squeaked.  They  entered  and  bowed  deep,  identical  bows.  When  they  straightened  up,  they  towered  over  him.  They  were  middle-aged  and  the  worse  for  it;  their  red  hair  was  grizzled.  The  resemblance  be-  tween  them  was  like  a  cruel  joke.  At  some  dis-  tant  time  they  might  have  had  a  sort  of  florid  beauty.  &quot;Pray  sit  down.&quot;  &quot;We  must  introduce  ourselves.  I  am  Brother  Castor.  He  is  Brother  Pollux.  We  are  here  be-  cause  we  have  a  call-  a  call  to  the  Ministry.&quot;  &quot;But  we  start  with  a  shocking  handicap.  We've  no  money,&quot;  said  Brother  Pollux.  &quot;We  were  not  brought  up  in  a  Christian  home-&quot;  &quot;And  there  was  something  odd  about  us.&quot;  The  usual  blackmailers,  Hamlet.  &quot;We  will  not  dwell  on  the  past,  Pollux.  We  must  not  take  up  the  gentleman's  time.  It  is  enough  to  say  that  we  left  home  and  took  to  loose  company  and  evil  courses.  Drinking,  gambling,  Sabbath-breaking-&quot;  &quot;Horse-coping.&quot;  &quot;P  rizefighting,  thimble-rigging,  and  fornication.  Led  by  above,  we  joined  a  travelling  circus.  Those  who  go  to  circuses  see  the  wonders  of  the  Lord.  We  saw  our  weakness  and  utter  de-  pravity.&quot;  &quot;'The  tiger  did  it.  We'd  never  seen  a  tiger.&quot;  thought  &quot;'The  tiger  was  instrumental,  But  let  us  not  despise  the  performing  fleas.  One  of  them  got  loose,  and  we  sought  it  all  over  the  place.  The  manager,  a  God-fearing  man,  told  us  it  was  worth  a  great  deal  of  money.  How  much  more  so,  he  said,  is  the  soul.&quot;  &quot;We  got  it  in  the  end,&quot;  said  Pollux.  &quot;How  did  you  know  it  was  the  right  flea?&quot;  They  were  Hamlet's  first  words.  Brother  Castor  swept  on.  &quot;In  that  same  hour,  we  heard  our  call-both  of  us.  It  was  a  call  to  join  the  Minis-  try  and  search  for  lost  souls.&quot;  Hamlet  could  not  believe  his  luck.  They  were  more  innocent  than  the  puppets,  more  wholeheartedly  ludi-  crous  than  the  players.  Whatever  the  cost,  he  must  keep  them.  &quot;It's  a  call  from  God.  But  we've     " b"got  to  be  worthy  of  it,&quot;  said  Pollux.  &quot;'That's  why  we  wouldn't  move  off  your  steps.  Anyone  at  thetop  of  these  steps,  I  said  to  Castor,  is  bound  to  be  rich.  And  we've  got  to  raise  money  for  our  schooling  before  we  can  obey  the  call.  There's  Hebrew  and  Greek,  and  the  missionary  journeys  of  Saint  Paul,  and  the  Athanasian  Creed,  and  the  Augsburg  Confession,  and  the  Sun-  days  after  Trinity,  and  the  Four  Last  Things,  and  the  Thirty-nine  Articles;  we  must  have  them  at  our  fingers'  ends  before  we  can  go  into  the  Ministry.&quot;  &quot;I'll  see  to  all  that,&quot;  Hamlet  said.  'You'll  be  our  teacher?  Castor,  did  you  hear  that?  He  must  be  in  the  Ministry  himself.&quot;  They  were  so  grate-  ful  that  he  had  to  send  them  away,  promising  that  if  they  came  back  ten  days  later  they  would  find  everything  arranged.  For  it  had  darted  upon  him  that  as  he  had  formerly  been  an  anonymous  patron  ofthe  drama,  he  would  now  anonymously  foster  a  theological  col-  lege.  Or  possibly  he  might  buy  one  ready-made:  Master  Caraway  had  bought  a  bank-which  would  prove  useful  as  a  source  of  mortal  specie  when  fairy  gold  was  not  negotiable.  Master  Caraway  was  plucked  from  his  office  by  four  of  Hamlet's  corps  of  winged  messengers,  strong-flying  fairies  who  could  carry  any  weight  and  subdue  any  resistance.  When  he  had  recovered  his  breath  he  said  that  a  theological  college  would  not  be  a  sound  investment;  Christians  are  no-  toriously  fickle  and  the  slaves  of  fashion  in  matters  of  dogma.  If  Lord  Hamlet  wanted  a  theological  college,  it  would  be  better  to  rentone,  with  protective  clauses  about  structural  and  interior  repairs.  Lord  Hamlet  said  suavely  he  thought  not.  Master  Caraway  could  not  imagine  what  had  happened  to  his  client,  till  now  so  tractable.  His  hold  on  the  discussion  was  weakened  by  distract,  ing  surmises  as  to  why  Lord  Hamlet  wanted  a  theological  college;  if  it  was  to  shelter  an  amour,  why  not  consider  a  quiet  castle?  He  was  handed  over  to  the  four  winged  messengers  and  charged  not  to  return  from  an  aerial  survey  till  he  had  found  something  suitable.  Late  that  evening,  he  returned  with  a  theological  college  in  North  [REDACTED],  a  spa  at  Wenlock,  and  a  condemned  seminary  in  the  neighborhood.  That,  except  for  a  drain  on  his  bank,  was  all  he  knew  of  it  till  a  letter  told  him  the  renovated  seminary  would  be  called  Caraway  College  and  be  dedicated  to  Saint  Caraway,  Virgin  and  Martyr.  During  the  interval  required  for  its  renovation,  Hamlet  divided  himself  be-  tween  the  Sacred  and  Profane.  He  sat  up  all  night  reading  polemical  divines  of  the  Church  of  England  and  spent  the  day  equipping  the  seminary  with  everything  a  theological  college  should  have,  from  a  laundry  to  a  teaching  staff.  In  the  course  of  his  reading  he  developed  a  passion  for  Christian  niceties,  and  was  exquisite  in  his  se-  lection  of  the  staff,  de-  tecting  an  Anabaptist  at  a  glance.  With  so  many  teach-  ers  hoveringover  them  like  vultures,  Castor  and  Pollux  made  steady  progress.  When  further  pupils  were  enrolled  in  Caraway  College,  the  twins  naturally  fell  back  a  little.  But  they  always  did  well  in  examinations.  Castor  whisked  through  his  papers  and  then  re-  placed  Pollux  and  did  his.  Neck  and  neck,  they  finished  the  course  and  were  ordained  deacons  on  the  same  happy  day.  All  this  time,  they  never  gave  Hamlet  a  mo-  ment's  uneasiness.  They  were  unfailingly  serious  and  unfailingly  absurd.  Visibly  or  invisibly,  he  was  a  regular  visitor  to  the  college,  where  he  gave  lectures  on  Gothic  architecture  and  in-  stituted  the  custom  of  Disputations.  Neck  and  neck,  Castor  and  Pollux  climbed  the  Establishment.  Only  one  incident  jarred  their  smooth  ascent.  In  their  gaiters  and  aprons  (by  then  they  were  deans)  they  visited  the  God-fear-  ing  circus  manager  to  thank  him  for  his  part  in  directing  them  to  the  re-  ligious  life.  He  denounced  them  as  backsliders,  hirelings,  and  truckling  Erastians:  he  was  a  Nonconformist.  As  time  went  on  they  became  bishops-  Castor  admired  for  his  eloquence  and  known  as  The  Saintly  Bishop,  Pollux  venerated  as  an  administrator  and  known  as  The  Manly  Bishop.  Hamlet  designed  their  mitres,  hung  on  their  antics,  and  read  their  Pastorals  with  squeals  of  delight.  At  the  death  of  the  Archbishop  of  York  he  was  in  agonies  of  discrimination,  but  he  was  speedily  released  from  them  by  the  death  of  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury.  He  tweaked  a  few  last  strings.  He  had  filled  two  Archbishoprics;  Caraway  College  was  flourishing;  he  would  now  look  round  for  a  new  source  of  entertainment.  He  enjoyed  Castor  and  Polluxlonger  than  he  expected;  they  had  inherited  a  cer-  tain  amount  of  Elfin  longevity  and  lived  on  to  the  ripe  old  age  of  a  hun-  dred  or  so. "