 b"AS much  as  I  detest  characterizing  men  and  women  by  the  mi-  nutiae  of  their  world,  I  honest-  ly  cannot  recall  ever  having  seen  Gail  and  Teddy  Estabrook  seated  on  any-  thing  but  folding  chairs.  This  is  not  be-  cause  of  my  habits  and  those  of  whom-  ever  I  happen  to  be  living  with,  because  we've  always  been  very  fluid,  moving  gracefully  from  cabin  hatches  to  tooled-  leather  hassocks.  And  while  it  wouldn't  be  truthful  to  say  that  when  you  found  folding  chairs  you  found  the  Esta-  brooks,  it  would  be  quite  true  to  say  that  when  you  found  the  Estabrooks  you  found  folding  chairs.  They  were  the  doyens  ofthat  world  of  committee  meetings  and  public  gatherings  I  see  with  such  lamentable  narrowness.  Pres-  idential  elections  brought  them  into  great  social  and  managerial  promi-  nence.  Beginning  with  the  spring  of  any  election  year,  the  Estabrooks  would  appear  at  fund-raising  golf  and  tennis  matches,  cocktail  parties,  dinners,  and  dances-always  sitting,  of  course,  on  folding  chairs.  One  saw  them  every-  where,  and  they  were  really  quite  pleas-  ant.  When  their  candidate  was  defeat-  ed-and  he  almost  always  was-they  would  disappear  in  November,  as  does  so  much  else  in  nature.  If  one  fol-  lowed  the  political  history  of  the  vil- lage,  one  would  find  them  on  their  folding  chairs  at  school-board  elections,  hearings  of  all  sorts,  conscientiously  supporting  every  issue  of  civic  virtue.  It  was  not  until  quite  late  in  my  life,  when  I  became  a  religious  zealot,  that  I  discovered  that  they  filled  up  the  time  between  Presidential  elections  withconcerns  of  the  spirit.  My  own  particular  sect  (the  Pelagian  Heresy)  met  in  bleak  parish  houses  and  damp  church  basements.  Our  schedules  were  loose  and  confusing,  and  seeking  my  particular  form  of  worship  I  often  mistakenly  stumbled  onto  other  devo-  tions,  such  as  Ritual  Dance,  Trans-  actional  Analysis,  Alcoholics  Anony-  mous,  Sikhs,  Zen  Buddhists,  Muslims,  Charismatic  Christians-any  gather-  ing  that  expressed,  so  much  more  suc-  cinctly  and  so  much  less  acceptably  than  the  country  club,  man's  passion  for  salvation.  Now  and  then,  searching  for  my  own  faith,  I  found  the  Estabrooks  sitting  on  their  folding  chairs.  This  may  sound  snobbish  but,  after  all,  my  mother's  last  request  was  that  her  death  not  be  reported  in  the  newspapers.  &quot;Why,  Mother  dear?&quot;  I  asked.  She  said,  &quot;Because  I  don't  want  them  to  know.&quot;  The  Estabrooks  were  the  sort  of  people  who  considered  their  stopover  in  Samarkand  to  be  of  general  interest,  and  who  went  around  the  world  once  or  twice  a  year,  reading  simple  detec-  tive  stories  in  Statlers  and  Hiltons  while  the  monsoon  rains  lashed  the  nearby  temples  they  had  come  to  see.  Their  reading  could  be  explained  by  the  fact  that  if  the  world  around  you  seems  like  Delacroix's  &quot;Death  of  Sar-  danapalus,&quot;  the  persuasions  of  an  empty  canvas  will  be  irresistible.  He  was  the  sort  of  man  who  looks  for  skin  maga-  zines  in  his  neighbor's  trash  cans,  and  she  was  the  sort  of  woman  for  whom  water  glasses  and  toilet  seats  are  steri-  lized.  They  were  the  sort  of  people  who  take  cut-rate  cruises  in  those  ships  that  catch  fire  off  the  Lesser  Antilles,  and  they  were  the  sort  of  people  who  use  &quot;host&quot;  as  a  verb  and  who  describe  their  curtains  as  &quot;drapes&quot;-even  when  they  live  in  the  White  House.  They  were  the  sort  of  people  who  used  to  be  married  in  the  Church  of  the  Trans-  figuration,  and  he  was  the  sort  of  man  who,  if  you  let  him,  would  tell  you  about  having  drinks  with  [REDACTED]  Gui-  nan,  Tuesday  Weld,  Bernard  Beren-  son,  Nikita  Khrushchev,  and  Sophia  Loren,  and  who  once  bowed  his  head  in  prayer  beside  J.  P.  Morgan,  when  they  were  both  attending  the  funeral  of  George  Foster  Peabody.  This  could  havebeen  a  stab  at  bringing  his  pas-  sions  for  spirituality  and  rectitude  to-  gether.  But  should  you  ask  how  I  can  put  down  the  Estabrooks  as  the  sort  of  people  who  never  got  to  Ascot  or  even  Wimbledon  and  not  explain  what  sort  of  people  we  were,  I  would  say  that  we  were  the  sort  of  people  who  could  best  be  described  as  the  citizens  of  some  border  principal-  ity,  such  as  Liechtenstein.  We  lacked  the  mountainous  scenery,  but  our  passports  were  fat  with  visas,  we  dealt  in  spiritual  contraband,  we  spoke  four  languages  poor-  ly,  and  knew  the  words  to  four  national  anthems.  I  particularly  remember  this  because  once,  when  I  was  sitting  in  a  caf\xc3\xa9  in  Kitz-  biihel  with  my  brother,  lis-  tening  to  a  band  concert,  he  sprang  to  his  feet  and  put  his  Tyrolian  hat  over  his  heart.  &quot;What's  up?&quot;  I  asked,  and  he  said,  &quot;They  are  about  to  play  the  na-  tional  anthem.&quot;  What  the  band  was  about  to  play  was  &quot;Home  on  the  Range,&quot;  " b"and  I  mention  this  only  to  illustrate  the  fact  that  we  were  the  sort  of  peo-  ple  who  endeavor  to  be  versatile  at  every  level.  I  can  remember  my  mother  coming  down  a  circular  stairs  in  a  coral-col-  ored  dress  heavily  embroidered  with  pearls,  on  her  way  to  hear  &quot;Tosca,&quot;  and  I  can  remember  her  pumping  gas  on  the  main  road  to  Cape  Cod  at  that  point  in  the  landscape  where  scrub  pine  takes  over  and  the  nearness  of  the  sea  can  be  read  in  the  pallor  of  the  sky.  She  didn't  actually  wear  tennis  sneakers,  but  she  woresome  kind  of  health  shoe,  and  her  dress  was  always  much  lower  in  the  bow  than  in  the  stern.  And  I  can  remember  her  re-  peatedly  regretting  invitations  to  dine  at  the  Trenchers',  who  were  famous  in  the  village  for  having,  in  the  space  of  a  week,  bought  both  a  pipe  organ  and  a  yacht.  We  were  the  sort  of  people  who  lived  in  a  Victorian  mansion  and,  when  this  was  lost,  moved  back  to  the  family  homestead,  which  included  a  splendid  eighteenth-century  house  and  the  franchise  on  two  Socony  gas  pumps  that  stood  where  the  rose  garden  had  been.  When  the  news  that  we  were  going  to  run  a  gas  station  got  out,  my  Aunt  Louisa  came  directly  to  the  house  and,  standing  in  the  hallway,  ex-  claimed,  &quot;You  cannot  pump  gasoline!&quot;  &quot;Why  not?&quot;  asked  Mother.  Aunt  Louisa's  chauffeur  came  in  and  set  a  box  of  tomatoes  on  the  floor.  He   wore  puttees.  &quot;Because,&quot;  said  Aunt  Louisa,  &quot;you  will  lose  all  your  friends.&quot;  &quot;On  the  contrary,&quot;  said  Mother,  &quot;I  shall  discover  precisely  who  they  are.&quot;  &quot;The  next  thing  I  expect  to  hear,&quot;  said  Aunt  Louisa,  &quot;is  that  you  are  working  as  a  waitress.&quot;  &quot;I  will  never  wait  on  table,&quot;  said  Mother.  &quot;I  would  sooner  take  in  doorsteps  to  scrub.&quot;  So,  as  you  can  see,  we  were  the  sort  of  people  whose  path  was  not  easy  to  follow,  and  I  like  to  think  that  my  fa-  ther's  insistence  upon  my  being  a  fish-  erman  and  a  mountain  climber  was  intended  to  show  me  the  final  impor-  tance  of  taking  the  right  trail  in  the  moral  wilderness  in  which  one  lives.  My  father  spent  most  of  his  time  tack-  ing  a  catboat  around  small  harbors.  He  was  very  adroit  and  composed  at  han-  dling  his  tiller  and  the  sheets.  He  was  great  with  all  lines-kite  lines,  trout  lines,  and  moorings-and  he  could  coil  a  garden  hose  with  an  authority  that  seemed  to  me  princely.  Dance-which  he  detested-best  described  his  per-  formance  on  a  boat.  The  instant  he  dropped  the  mooring  he  began  a  per-  formance  as  ordained,  courtly,  and  graceful  as  any  pavane.  Line  squalls,  luffing  sails,  thunder  and  lightning  nev-  er  broke  his  rhythm.  It  was  at  about  this  time  that  I  could  be  described  as  the  sort  of  young  man  who  leads  the  Nanuet  Cotillion.  The  Nanuet  landed  in  the  New  World  in  1672.  The  lead-  erof  the  expedition  was  Peter  Went-  worth.  After  my  drunken  and  cranky  father,  I  was  his  principal  male  de-  scendant,  and  so  I  led  the  cotillion.  That's  allI  really  have  tosay.It  was  a  pleasure  to  leave  the  gastanks  to  Harry  (a  spastic)  and  dress  in  my  fa-  ther's  tails.  This  brings  us  back  to  the  thrill  of  living  in  a  border  principality.  My  father's  tails  fitted  perfectly,  I  thought,  and  were  made  of  black  broadcloth-as  heavy  as  the  stuff  of  an  overcoat.  I  don't  spend  much  time  in  front  of  a  mirror  excepting  when  I'm  in  tails,  but  I  think  I  can  bring  them  off.  I  would  drive  into  the  city  in  whichever  car  was  running,  lead  some  d\xc3\xa9butante-chosen  by  the  committee  for  her  wealth  and  her  connections  down  to  the  principal  box,  and  bow  to  its  occupants.  In  my  day  these  were  mostly  bankers,  but  when  my  cousin  James  took  up  the  task  he  was  stuck  with  funeral  directors,  the  owners  of  chains  of  nursing  homes,  and  the  enor-  mously  wealthy  manufacturers  of  dog  and  cat  food;  but  would  you  rather  have  had  Judge  Gary  and  the  Henry  Clay  Fricks?  We  were  the  sort  of  people  who  claimed  to  be  sustained  by  tradition  but  were  in  fact  sustained  by  the  much  more  robust  pursuit  of  a  workable  im-  provisation,  uninhibited  by  consistency.  While  we  were  still  living  in  the  man-  sion,  we  used  to  have  dinner  at  the  club  on  Thursdays  and  Sundays.  I  re-  member  one  such  night.  Mother  had  " b"brought  the  car  under  the  porte  coch\xc3\xa9re.  The  car  was  a  convertible  calleda  Jordan  Blueboy,  which  my  father  had  won  in  a  raffle.  My  fa-  ther  was  not  with  us,  and  I  suppose  he  was  on  his  cathoat.  I  got  into  the  Blueboy,  but  my  brother  remained  on  the  carriage  step.  He  was  a  handsome  young  man,  but  his  face  was  very  white.  &quot;I  will  not  go  to  the  club,&quot;  he  said  to  my  mother,  &quot;unless  you  call  the  steward  by  his  name.&quot;  &quot;His  name,&quot;  said  Mother,  &quot;s  Horton.&quot;  &quot;His  name  is  Mr.  Horton,&quot;  said  my  brother.  &quot;Oh  very  well,&quot;  said  Mother.  My  brother  got  into  the  car.  Mother  was  not  an  in-  tentionally  reckless  driver,  but  on  the  road  she  was  an  agent  of  death.  She  had  already  killed  one  Airedale  and  three  cats.  Both  my  brother  and  I  shut  our  eyes  until  we  heard  the  sound  of  the  gravel  on  the  club  driveway.  We  took  a  table,  and  when  the  steward  came  to  welcome  us  my  mother  asked,  &quot;What  are  you  going  to  tempt  us  with  tonight,  Horton?&quot;  &quot;Excuse  me,&quot;  said  my  brother.  He  left  the  table  and  walked  home.  When  we  returned,  I  found  him-a  grown  man-sobbing  in  his  room;  but  even  he,  my  only  brother,  was  inconsistent.  Years  later  when  we  used  to  meet  for  drinks  in  New  York,  he  would  summon  the  waiterby  clapping  his  hands.  Once,  after  the  headwaiter  had  asked  us  to  leave  and  I  tried  to  explain  to  my  brother  that  there  were  simpler  and  more  acceptable  ways  of  gettinga  waiter's  attention,  he  said,  &quot;I  don't  understand,  I  simply  don't  under-  stand.  All  I  wanted  was  a  drink.&quot;  But  I  was  the  sort  of  boy  who  used  regu-  larly  to  read  a  boiler-  plate  column  in  the  lo-  cal  paper  called  &quot;You  and  Your  Family.&quot;  This  was  to  put  me  at  some  disadvantage  the  first  time  that  my  father  threatened  to  commit  suicide.  I  was  not  yet  sixteen,  and  I  didn't  have  a  driver's  license.  I  came  in  from  pumping  gas  to  find  the  supper  table  set  for  two,  &quot;Where's  Dad?&quot;  I  asked,  impetuously-because  the  laconism  developed  by  my  family  was  ceremonious  and  tribal,  and  one  seldom  asked  questions.  My  mother  sighed  and  served  the  red-flannel  hash  with  poached  eggs.  I  had  already  fault-  ed,  and  so  I  went  on.  &quot;But  where  is  Dad?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;I'm  not  sure,&quot;  she     said.  &quot;When  I  came  downstairs  to  make  supper  he  handed  me  a  long  in-  dictment,  enumerating  my  failures  as  a  woman,  a  wife,  and  a  mother.  There  were  twenty-two  charges.  I  didn't  read  them  all.  I  threw  it  into  the  fire.  He  was  quite  indignant.  He  said  that  he  was  going  to  Nagasakit  and  drown  himself.  He  must  have  begged  rides,  since  he  didn't  take  the  car.&quot;  &quot;Ex-  cuse  me,&quot;  I  said.  No  sarcasm  was  in-  tended.  I'm  sure  some  members  of  the  family  must  have  said  as  much  when  they  lay  dying.  I  got  into  the  car  and  headed  for  the  beach.  That's  how  I  remember  that  I  was  not  sixteen,  be-  cause  there  was  a  new  policeman  in  the  village  of  Hepworth  who  was  the  only  one  who  might  have  stopped  and  asked  to  see  my  license.  He  had  it  in  for  the  family  for  some  reason.  I  knew  all  the  other  policemen  in  the  villages  along  that  coast.I  got  to  Nagasakit  and  ran  down  to  the  beach.  It  was  late  in  the  season,  late  in  the  day,  and  there  were  no  bathers,  no  lifeguards,  nothing  at  all  but  a  very  weary  swell  from  what  was  already  a  polluted  ocean.  How  could  I  tell  if  it  contained  my  father?  I  walked  along  the  cres-  cent  of  the  beach.  The  amusement  park  was  still  open.  I  could  hear  some  music  from  there,  profoundly  unseri-  ous  and  belonging  very  much  to  the  past.  I  examined  the  sand  to  keep,  I  guess,  from  crying.  'There  had  been  that  year  a  big  run  on  Japanese  sandals  made  of  rubber  and  also  a  run  on  small  knights  in  armor  made  of  plastic.  There  were  dismembered  knights  and  odd  sandals  mixed  in  the  shingle.  Respira-  tory  noises  came  from  my  beloved  sea.  The  roller  coaster  was  still  running.  I  could  hear  the  clack  of  the  cars  on  the  rail  joints  and  also  some  loud  laughter-  a  sound  that  seemed  wasted  on  that  scene.  I  left  the  beach.  I  crossed  the  road  to  the  entrance  of  the  amusement  park.  The  facade  marked  a  period  in  the  Italian  immigration.  Workmen  from  4974616c79  had  built  a  wall  of  plaster  and  cement,  painted  it  the  saffrons  of  Rome,  and  decorated  the  wall  with  mermaids  and  scallop  shells.  Over  the  arch  was  Poseidon  with  a  trident.  On  the  other  side  of  the  wall,  the  merry-go-round  was  turning.  There  was  not  a  passenger  on  it.  The  loud  laughter  came  from  some  people  who  were  watching  the  roller  coaster.  There  my  father,  pretending  to  drink  from  an  empty  bottle,  was  also  pre-  tending  to  contemplate  suicide  at  the  summit  of  every  rise,  This  clowning  was  successful.  His  audience  was  rapt.  I  went  up  to  the  razorback  who  ran  the  controls.  &quot;That's  my  father,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Could  you  land  him?&quot;  &quot;Sure,&quot;  said  the  razorback.  When  the  car  car-  rying  Daddy  stopped  at  the  platform  he  saw  me.  I  was  his  younger  son  and  killjoy.  He  got  out  and  joined  me,  as  he  knew  he  must.  &quot;Oh  Daddy,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;you  shouldn't  do  this  to  me  in  my  formative  years.&quot;  That  was  off  the  boiler  plate.  UT  if  someone  I  deeply  love  should  ask  me  how  I  can  put  down  the  Estabrooks  and  still  not  tell  the  truth  about  the  sort  of  people  we  really  were,  I  would  prefer  to  have  the  question  asked  at  an  altitude  of  above  ten  thousand  feet,  in  the  dusk  of  an  early  morning.  I  would  need  that  much  darkness  and  that  much  clear-  ness  in  order  to  reply-with  the  great-  est  honesty-that  we  were  the  sort  of  people  we  were  because  we  could  nev-  er  pay  our  bills.  And  in  the  end  the  Estabrooks  were  the  sort  of  people  who  are  successful  in  joining  their  passion  for  salvation  to  their  passion  for  shining  and  established  matters.  Their  rise  was  meteoric  in  the  sense  that  its  are  and  its  fire  were  most  natural.  He  was  elected  village  trustee,  mayor,  state  senator,  congress-  man,  and  Vice-President,  and  when  he  succeeded  to  the  Presidency-after  the  hideous  mutilation  of  the  incumbent-  I  attended  his  inauguration.  It  was  my  fourth.  It  was  cold,  of  course.  It  usual-  ly  is.  We  stood  for  the  national  an-  them,  bowed  our  heads  in  prayer,  stood  for  the  laureate's  ode,  and  then,  for  the  introduction  of  the  President  by  the  Speaker  of  the  House,  sat  down  in  our  folding  chairs."