 b"IS Senator  C.  Carlton  Roemaster's  stained,  narrow-brim  Stetson  about  tojoin  the  growing  pile  of  hom-  burgs,  porkpies,  and  beanies  already  in  the  Presidential  ring?  Little  known  outside  his  home  state  and  complete-  ly  unknown  in  it  (he  is  filling  out  an  unexpired  Senate  term  to  which  he  was  appointed  when  the  governor,  stung  by  press  charges  that  the  job  would  go  to  a  political  crony,  picked  him  from  a  line  of  tourists  waiting  to  make  a  tour  of  the  gubernatorial  man-  sion),  Charlie  Roemaster  is  nonethe-  less  a  force  to  be  reckoned  with  in  the  complex  game  of  pre-nomination  poli-  tics.  As  vice-chairman  of  the  obscure  but  non-influential  Weights  and  Meas-  ures  Subcommittee  of  the  Senate's  au-  gust  Committee  on  Different  Things,  Roemaster  is  respected  by  party  regu-  lars  as  a  workhorse.  &quot;There's  not  a  night  Charlie  doesn'tcarry  home  a  fat  load  of  papers,&quot;  one  colleague  ob-  served  recently.  &quot;The  funny  thing  is  he  never  seems  to  bring  anything  back  in  the  morning.  But  when  Charlie  does  tackle  the  fourteen  months  of  stuff  he  must  have  tucked  away  in  his  attic,  watch  out!  Theman  is  a  workhorse.&quot;  Add  to  the  workhorse  legend  Roe-  master's  reputation  for  being  well  liked  on  both  sides  of  the  aisle.  It  is  one  measure  of  his  evenhanded  warmth  and  genuine  conviviality  that  only  a  handful  of  senators  are  able  to  state  with  certainty  which  side  of  the  aisle  he  actually  sits  on.  Insiders  give  much  of  the  credit  for  this  personal  popu-  larity  to  Roemaster's  wife,  the  former  Hermina  Grausch.  It  is  generally  agreed  that  out  on  the  primary  trail,  where  wivescount  heavily,  Hermy  Roemaster  will  make  copy.  For  some  years  before  her  marriage  Mrs.  Roc-  master  was  the  &quot;catcher&quot;  in  an  Ar-  gentinian  trapeze  act,  and  the  news  magazines  have  already  revealed  that  problems  in  the  Roemaster  home  are  often  solved  after  Hermy  hangs  by  her  heels  from  a  doorframe  or  light  fix-  ture  and  &quot;thinks  things  through.&quot;  Last  year,  she  was  widely  applauded  for  her  one-woman  campaign  to  secure  citizen-  ship,  under  the  &quot;unique  and  unduplicat-  able  skills&quot;  provision  of  the  Immigra-  tion  Act,  for  a  Bulgarian  trampoline  troupe.  &quot;The  issue,&quot;  she  said  at  the  time,  &quot;is  not  the  Twirling  Vaptarovs  per  se  but  rather  whether  Americans  should  be  denied  access  to  a  ten-man  pyramid  topped  by  a  Kodiak  bear.&quot;  Frankly,  Senator  Roemaster  is  not  expected  to  match  his  wife  for  pizzazz.  His  background  resembles  that  of  oth-  er  Presidential  candidates,  although  the  record  is  sometimes  sketchy  on  de-  tails.  He  either  sold  or  stole  Saturday  Evening  Posts  as  a  boy,  was  captain  of  his  college  crew  orrented  out  row-  boats  on  Lake  W  atchamaug,  and  spent  either  two  days  or  two  years  in  the  [REDACTED]  Pacific  during  the  Second  World  War.  A  standard  bio.  But  his  support-  ers  believe  it  is  more  than  compensat-  ed  for  by  Roemaster's  reputation  for  fiscal  soundness.  For  seventeen  years  prior  to  his  plunge  into  the  Wash-  ington  maelstrom  he  was  controller  of  [REDACTED]  Sprocket,  a  medium-sized  bicycle-manufacturing  concern.  His  guidance  of  the  company  during  a  dif-  ficult  period  of  transition  from  three-  speed  to  five  (he  offset  increased  costs  by  omitting  the  tail-light  and  bell  and  devising  a  cheaper  but  often  work-  able  brake)  won  the  respect  of  Wall  Street.  And  his  personal  stock  soared  when  he  devised  Sprocket  bikes'  catchy  sales  motto  &quot;Hell  on  W  heels.&quot;  Admittedly  weak  in  foreign  affairs  (his  one  trip  abroad  to  date  has  been  a  three-day  vacation  package  to  Tijua-  na),  Roemaster  expects  to  bolster  his  international  image  with  a  sixteen-na-  tion  fact-finding  trip  in  January.  Dur-  ing  his  week  overseas,  he  plans  to  huddle  with  heads  of  state  or  key  gov-  ernmental  members,  and  has  already  pencilled  in  a  conference  with  Oman's  Deputy  Director  of  Camel  Traffic.  Mrs.  Roemaster  will  accompany  her  husband,  and  he  is  counting  on  her  to  bridge  the  &quot;people  to  people&quot;  gap.  &quot;I  have  old  friends  in  [REDACTED],  Den-  mark,  537061696e,  and  Turkey,&quot;  she  told  a  reporter  last  week,  &quot;although  at  that  time  of  year  they  may  all  be  in  winter  quarters.&quot;  Until  his  trip,  Roe-  master's  aides  are  maintaining  a  low  profile  on  the  diplomatic  front  and  are  downplaying  gaffes  like  the  one  at  a  recent  brunch  at  the  Dutch  Embassy,  when  the  fun-loving  solon  plunked  down  five  slices  of  imported  cheese  on his  table,  cried  &quot;Edam  and  weep'!,&quot;  and  fell  to  the  floor  in  helpless  parox-  ysms  of  laughter.  Whether  Roemaster  has  the  skill  to  generate  the  cash  essential  to  an  ef-  fective  primary  campaign  is  one  of  the  big  remaining  questions,  and  it  seems  headed  for  an  affirmative  answer  after  his  private  meeting  this  week  in  a  New  York  hotel  suite  with  a  dozen  hard-  eyed  businessmen.  For  twenty-three  minutes  the  Senator  fielded  questions  on  the  economy,  [REDACTED],  busing,  the  environment,  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  and  ener-  gy  before  the  group  repaired  to  &quot;21&quot;  for  well-earned  drinks  and  steaks.  Many  insiders  take  it  as  a  sign  of  con-  fidence  in  his  money  sense  that  when  the  others  present  had  to  rush  off  after  lunch  to  other  top-level  meetings  or  to  catch  trains,  Charlie  Roemaster  was  permitted  to  stay  and  deal  with  the  check.  As  the  race  hots  up,the  opposition  is  expected  to  try  to  spotlight  the  few  minuses  in  the  Charlie  Roemaster  bal-  ance  sheet.  Adversaries  will  make  much  of  the  fact  that  his  ill-fitting  suits  are  made  of  double-knit  linsey-woolsey,  that  he  moved  out  of  his  last  apartment  owing  twenty-five  months'  rent,  and  that  once,  as  a  youthful  prank,  he  loaded  and  fired  the  memorial  cannon  on  the  statehouse  lawn,  disabling  three  sightseeing  buses  and  crumbling  the  north  wall  of  the  historic  capitol  build-  ing.  &quot;When  they  announce  your  act  in  the  main  tent,&quot;  Hermy  Roemaster  says,  chuckling,  &quot;there's  always  some  sore-  head  in  the  crowd  who  blames  you  if  there's  no  prize  in  his  Cracker  Jacks.&quot;  Perhaps  the  best  assessment  of  Charlie  Roemaster's  chances  next  year  is  embodied  in  his  Harry  Truman  sto-  ry-one  of  a  seemingly  endless  supply  of  political  anecdotes  with  which  he  entertains  visitors  to  his  Senate  office,  passersby  in  the  halls,  and  people  try-  ing  to  find  their  cars  in  the  parking  lot.  &quot;This  was  back  when  Harry  was  a  senator,  and  he  came  to  my  town  for  some  committee  hearings  on  de-  fense-contract  frauds,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Those  were  gruelling  times,  and  when  Harry  stepped  into  the  elevator  I  was  running  at  the  Corn  Palace  Hotel  that  night  he  looked  beat.  'Floor,  please?&quot;  I  asked,  and,  tired  as  he  was,he  quickly  replied,  'Seven.&quot;  It  was  just  the  two  of  us  in  the  elevator,  and  I  said,  'You're  going  up,  Senator.  Mind  if  I  go  up,  too?&quot;  He  just  looked  at  me-if  I  live  to  bea  hundred  and  ten  I'll  never  for-  get  that  look-and  up  we  went.  I  let  him  out  at  Seven,  and  then&quot;-and  Roemaster  usually  pauses  here  to  light  his  pipe  and  twinklke-&quot;I  went  on  up  to  Nine,&quot;  "