 b"WHEN  a  man  persists  he  can  do  things  which  one  might  think  can  never  be  done,&quot;  Zalman  the  glazier  said.  &quot;In  our  vil-  lage,  Radoszyce,  there  was  a  simple  man,  a  village  peddler,  Leib  Belkes.  He  used  to  go  from  village  to  village,  selling  the  peasant  women  kerchiefs,  glass  beads,  perfume,  all  kinds  of  gilded  jewelry.  And  he  would  buy  from  them  a  measure  of  buckwheat,  a  wreath  of  garlic,  a  pot  of  honey,  a  sack  of  flax.  He  never  went  farther  than  the  hamlet  of  Byszcz,  five  miles  from  Radoszyce.  He  got  the  merchandise  from  a  salesman  from  [REDACTED],  and  the  same  man  bought  his  wares  from  him.  This  Leib  Belkes  was  a  common  man  but  pious.  On  the  Sabbath  heread  his  wife's  Yiddish  Bible.  He  loved  most  to  read  about  the  land  of  [REDACTED].  Some-  times  he  would  stop  the  cheder  boys  and  ask,  'Which  is  deeper-the  Jordan  or  the  Red  Sea?&quot;  'Do  apples  grow  in  the  Holy  Land?&quot;  'What  language  is  spoken  by  the  natives  there?'  The  boys  used  to  laugh  at  him.  He  looked  like  someone  from  the  Holy  Land  him-  self-black  eyes,  a  pitch-black  beard,  and  his  face  was  also  swarthy.  &quot;Once  a  year  a  messenger  used  to  come  to  Radoszyce,  a  Sephardic  Jew.  He  was  sent  to  collect  the  alms  that  were  given  in  the  name  of  Rabbi  Meir  the  Miracle  Worker,  so  that  he  should  intercede  for  them  in  the  next  world.  The  messenger  wore  a  robe  with  black  and  red  stripes  and  sandals  that  looked  as  though  they  were  of  ancient  times.  His  hat  was  also  outlandish.  He  smoked  a  water  pipe.  He  spoke  He-  brew  and  also  Aramaic.  His  Yiddish  he  had  learned  in  later  years.  Leib  Bel-  kes  was  so  fascinated  by  him  that  he  went  with  him  from  house  to  house  to  open  the  alms  boxes.  He  also  took  him  to  his  home,  where  he  ate  and  slept.  While  the  messenger  stayed  in  Rado-  szyce,  Leib  Belkes  did  no  work.  He  kept  on  asking  questions  like  'What  does  the  Cave  of  Machpelah  look  like?&quot;  'Does  one  know  where  Abraham  is  buried  and  where  Sarah?&quot;  'Is  it  true  that  Mother  Rachel  rises  from  her  grave  at  midnight  and  weeps  for  her  exiled  children?&quot;  I  was  still  a  boy  then,  but  I  too  followed  the  messenger  wherever  he  went.  Where  else  could  one  see  such  a  man  in  our  region?  &quot;Once  after  the  messenger  left,  Leib  Belkes  entered  a  store  and  asked  for  fifty  packs  of  matches.  The  mer-  chant  asked  him,  'What  do  you  need  so  many  matches  for?  You  want  to  burn  the  village?&quot;  And  Leib  said,  'I  want  to  build  the  Holy  Temple.&quot;  The  store-  keeper  thought  that  he  had  lost  his  mind.  Just  the  same,  he  sold  him  all  the  matches  he  had.  &quot;Later,  Leib  went  into  a  paint  store  and  asked  for  silver  and  gold  paint.  The  storekeeper  asked  him,  'What  do  you  need  these  paints  for?  Do  you  in-  tend  to  make  counterfeit  money?&quot;  And  Leib  answered,  'I  am  going  to  build  the  Holy  Temple.&quot;  The  messenger  had  sold  Leib  a  map,  a  largesheet  of  paper  showing  the  Temple  with  the  altar  and  all  the  other  objects  of  ritual.  At  night,  when  Leib  had  time,  he  sat  down  and  began  to  build  the  Temple  according  to  this  plan.  There  were  no  children  in  the  house,  Leib  Belkes  and  his  wife  had  two  daughters,  but  they  had  gone  into  domestic  service  in  Lu-  blin.  His  wife  asked  him,  'Why  do  you  play  with  matches?  Are  you  a  cheder  boy  again?&quot;  And  he  replied,  'I  am  building  the  Temple  of  Jerusalem.&quot;  &quot;He  managed  to  build  everything  according  to  this  plan:  the  Holy  of  Holies,  the  Inner  Court,  the  Outer  Court,  the  Table,  the  Menorah,  the  [REDACTED]  When  the  people  of  Radoszyce  learned  what  he  was  doing,  they  came  to  look  and  admire.  The  teachers  brought  their  pupils.  The  whole  edifice  stood  on  a  table,  and  it  couldn't  be  moved,  because  it  would  have  col-  lapsed.  When  the  rabbi  had  word  of  it,  he  too  came  to  Leib  Belkes,  and  he  brought  some  yeshiva  boys  with  him.  They  sat  around  the  table  and  they  were  dumbfounded.  Leib  Belkes  had  constructed  out  of  matches  the  Holy  Temple  exactly  as  it  was  described  in  the  Talmud!  &quot;Well,  but  people  are  envious  and  begrudge  others  their  accomplishments.  His  wife  began  to  complain  that  she  needed  the  table  for  her  dishes,  There  were  firemen  in  Radoszyce,  and  they  were  afraid  that  so  many  matches  would  cause  a  fire  and  the  whole  town  might  goup  in  flames.  There  were  so  many  threats  and  complaints  that  one  day  when  Leib  returned  from  his  trav-  els  his  temple  was  gone.  His  wife  swore  that  the  firemen  came  and  de-  molished  it.  The  firemen  accused  the  wife.  &quot;After  his  temple  had  been  de-  stroyed,  Leib  Belkes  became  melan-     cholic.  He  still  tried  to  do  business,  but  he  earned  less  and  less.  He  often  sat  at  home  and  read  Yiddish  storybooks  that  dealt  with  the  land  of  [REDACTED].  At  the  Study  House  he  bothered  the  scholars  and  yeshiva  boys  by  asking  them  ques-  tions  about  the  coming  of  the  Messiah.  'Will  one  huge  cloud  take  all  the  Jews  to  the  Holy  Land,  or  will  a  cloud  de-  scend  for  each  town  separately?&quot;  'Will  the  Resurrection  of  the  Dead  take  place  immediately,  or  will  there  be  a  waiting  period  of  forty  years?&quot;  'Will  there  still  bea  need  to  plow  the  fields  and  to  gather  the  fruit  from  the  or-  chards,  or  will  manna  fall  from  the  sky?&quot;  People  had  something  to  scoff  at.  &quot;Once,  late  in  the  evening,  when  his  wife  told  him  to  close  the  shutters,  he  went  outside  and  did  not  return.  There  was  an  uproar  in  Radoszyce.  Some  peo-  ple  believed  that  the  demons  had  spirit-  ed  him  away.  Others  thought  that  his  wife  nagged  him  so  much  that  he  ran  away  to  his  relatives  on  the  other  side  of  the  Vistula.  But  what  man  would  run  away  at  night  without  his  overcoat  and  without  a  bundle?  If  this  had  hap-  pened  to  a  rich  man,  they  would  have  sent  out  searchers  to  find  him.  But  when  a  poor  man  disappears  there  is  one  pauper  less  in  town.  His  wife-  Sprintza  was  her  name-was  deserted.  She  earned  a  little  from  kneading  dough  in  wealthy  houses  on  Thursdays.  She  also  got  some  support  from  her  daughters  when  they  married.  &quot;Five  years  passed.  Once,  on  a  Friday,  when  Sprintza  stood  over  the  oven  and  cooked  her  Sabbath  meals,  the  door  opened  and  in  came  a  man  with  a  gray  beard,  dusty  and  bare-  footed.  Sprintza  thought  it  was  a  beg-  gar.  Suddenly  he  said,  'I  was  in  the  Holy  Land.  Give  me  some  prune  des-  sert.&quot;  &quot;'The  town  went  wild.  They  all  came  running,  and  Leib  was  taken  to  the  rabbi.  The  rabbi  questioned  him,  and  he  learned  that  Leib  had  gone  on  foot  to  the  Holy  Land.&quot;  &quot;On  foot?&quot;  Levi  Yitzchok  asked.  &quot;Yes,  on  foot,&quot;  Zalman  said.  &quot;But  everyone  knows  that  to  get  to  the  Holy  Land  one  must  travel  by  ship.&quot;  Meyer  the  Eunuch  clutched  his  chin  where  a  beard  should  have  grown  and  said,  &quot;Perhaps  he  lied?&quot;  &quot;He  brought  letters  from  many  rab-  bis,  as  well  asa  sack  of  holy  earth  that  he  dug  himself  at  the  Mount  of  Ol-  ives,&quot;  Zalman  said.  &quot;When  someone  died  he  placed  a  handful  of  it  under  the  corpse's  head.  I  saw  it  myself;  it  was  as  white  as  crumbled  chalk.&quot;  &quot;How  long  didthe  trip  take  him?&quot;  Levi  Yitzchok  asked.  " b" &quot;'Two  years.  The  way  back,  he  went  by  boat.  The  rabbi  asked  him,  'How  can  a  man  do  a  thing  like  that?'  And  he  answered,  'I  yearned  so  much  that  I  could  notbear  it  anymore.  That  night,  when  I  went  out  to  close  the  shutters  and  I  saw  the  moon  running  among  the  clouds,  I  began  to  run  after  it.  I  kept  running  until  I  reached  War-  saw.  There,  kind  people  showed  me  the  road.  I  wandered  over  fields  and  for-  ests,  mountains  and  wasteland,  until  I  arrived  at  the  land  of  [REDACTED].  &quot;  &quot;I  am  astonished  that  the  beasts  did  not  devour  him,&quot;  Levi  Yitzchok  half  asked,  half  stated.  &quot;It  is  written  that  the  Lord  pre-  serves  the  simple,&quot;  Meyer  the  Eunuch  said.  OR  a  while  all  three  were  silent.  Levi  Yitzchok  took  his  blue  glasses  off  his  nose  and  began  to  wipe  the  lenses  with  his  sash.  He  suffered  from  trachoma.  One  of  his  eyes  was  milky  white,  and  hecould  not  see  with  it  at  all.  Levi  Yitzchok  owned  a  cane  that  once  belonged  to  the  preacher  of  Ko-  zienice.  Levi  Yitzchok  never  parted  with  it,  even  on  the  Sabbath.  He  limped,  and  a  crutch  is  not  forbidden.  For  a  long  while  he  rested  his  chin  on  this  cane.  Then  he  straightened  him-self  and  said,  &quot;Stubbornness  is  a  power.  In  Krasnystaw  there  was  a  tailor  by  the  name  of  Jonathan.  He  sewed  for  women,  not  men.  As  a  rule,  a  wom-  en's  tailor  is  a  frivolous  person.  When  one  sews  a  garment  for  a  female,  one  has  to  take  her  measurements,  and  sometimes  she  may  be  in  her  unclean  days.  Even  if  she  is  in  her  clean  days,  it  is  not  proper  to  touch  a  woman,  es-  pecially  if  she  is  married.  Well-but  there  must  be  tailors.  You  cannot  make  certain  garments  by  yourself.  This  Jon-  athan  happened  to  bea  pious  man  but  uneducated.  However,  he  loved  Jew-  ishness.  On  the  Sabbath  he  read  the  Yiddish  Bible  with  his  wife,  Beila  Yenta.  When  a  book  salesman  came  to  town,  Jonathan  bought  from  him  all  the  tomes  and  storybooks  in  Yid-  dish.  There  was  in  Krasnystaw  a  con-  gregation  of  psalm  reciters  and  a  so-  ciety  of  Mishnah  students.  Jonathan  belonged  to  both  of  these  groups.  He  listened  to  the  lectures,  but  he  was  afraid  to  say  anything,  because  when-  ever  he  uttered  a  word  in  Hebrew  he  mangled  it,  and  the  scholars  made  fun  of  him.  I  see  him  before  my  eyes:  tall,  lean,  pockmarked.  Gentleness  looked  out  from  his  eyes.  It  was  said  that  one  couldn't  find  a  better  tailor  even  in  [REDACTED].  When  he  made  a  dress  or  a  cape,  it  fitted  like  a  glove.  He  had  three  unmarried  daughters,  When  I  was  a  boy  I  used  to  see  him  often,  be-  causea  friend  of  mine,  Getzel,  an  orphan,  was  his  apprentice.  Other  mas-  ters  mistreated  their  apprentices,  beat  them,  and  did  not  give  them  enough  to  eat.  Instead  of  teaching  them  the  trade,  they  sent  them  on  errands,  and  ordered  them  to  rock  the  babies  or  to  carry  the  slops  so  that  they  should  never  learn  the  skill  properly  and  have  to  be  paid  a  salary.  But  Jonathan  taught  the  orphan  the  trade,  and  from  the  day  he  learned  to  make  a  button-  hole  and  to  sew  on  a  button  Jonathan  paid  him  four  rubles  a  year.  My  friend  Getzel  had  studied  at  a  yeshiva  before  he  became  a  tailor's  helper,  and  Jona-  than  used  to  ask  him  all  kinds  of  im-  possible  questions-like  'What  was  the  name  of  the  mother  of  Og  the  King  of  Bashan?&quot;  'Did  Noah  take  flies  into  the  Ark?&quot;  How  many  miles  between  Paradise  and  Gehenna&quot;'  He  wanted  to  know  everything.  &quot;Now,  listen  to  this.  Everyone  knows  that  on  the  day  of  the  Rejoic-  ing  over  the  Law  the  honored  citizens,  the  learned,  the  affluent  are  called  to  carry  the  Scrolls  first-before  the  la-  borers,  the  simple  people,  those  of  little  income.  This  is  the  way  it  is  all  over  " b"the  world.  But  in  our  town  the  head  of  the  synagogue  was  not  a  native.  He  knew  very  few  people,  and  some-  one  had  to  give  him  a  paper  listing  the  order  of  those  to  be  called.  There  was  another  Jonathan  in  town-a  scholar,  a  rich  man-and  the  head  of  the  syna-  gogue  confused  the  two  men,  and  he  called  Jonathan  the  tailor  first.  In  the  Study  House  there  was  murmuring  and  giggling.  When  Jonathan  the  tai-  lor  heard  that  he  had  been  called  first,  along  with  the  rabbi  and  the  elders,  he  couldn't  believe  his  own  ears.  He  realized  that  it  was  a  mistake,  but  when  a  man  is  summoned  to  carry  the  Scroll  hedare  not  refuse.  Among  the  workers  and  the  apprentices  pray,  ing  at  the  west  wall  there  was  laugh-  ter.  They  began  to  push  Jonathan  and  to  pinch  him  good-naturedly.  It  was  in  the  time  before  the  government  took  over  the  sale  of  vodka,  and  vodka  was  cheaper  than  borscht.  In  every  half-decent  home,  one  could  find  a  keg  of  vodka,  with  straws  for  drinking,  and  over  it  hung  a  side  of  dried  mut-  ton,  to  munch  afterward.  On  the  day  of  the  Rejoicing  over  the  Law,  people  allowed  themselves  to  takea  sip  before  prayers,  and  almost  everyone  was  tipsy.  Jonathan  the  tailor  came  over  to  the  reading  table  andwas  given  the  Scroll.  Everybody  stared,  but  only  one  person  said  anything-Reb  Zekele,  a  usurer.  He  exclaimed,  'Who  calls  up  an  ig-  noramus  to  carry  the  Scroll  first&quot;  And  he  returned  his  own  Scroll  to  the  beadle.  It  was  beneath  his  dignity  to  carry  the  Scroll  with  Jonathan  the  tailor.  &quot;In  the  Study  House  a  commotion  arose.  To  give  back  a  Scroll  was  sac-  rilege.  The  head  of  the  synagogue  was  bewildered.  To  shame  a  person  in  the  presence  of  a  whole  community  is  a  terrible  sin.  No  one  sang  and  danced  with  the  Scrolls  this  time.  The  same  simple  people  who  had  laughed  at  Jonathan  and  the  honor  given  to  him  now  cursed  Reb  Zekele  and  gnashed  their  teeth.  When  the  ceremony  was  over,  Jonathan  tailor  approached  Reb  Zekele  and  said  in  a  loud  voice  that  all  could  hear,  'It  is  truethat  I  am  ig-  norant,  but  I  swear  by  God  that  in  a  year  from  now  I  will  bea  greater  scholar  than  you  are.&quot;  &quot;'The  usurer  smiled  and  said,  'If  this  happens,  I  will  build  you  a  house  in  the  marketplace  for  nothing.&quot;  Reb  Zekele  the  usurer  dealt  in  lumber.  He  owned  mortgages  on  half  the  houses  in  town.  &quot;Jonathan  stood  for  a  while  in  per-  plexity.  Then  he  said,  'If  I  am  nota  greater  scholar  than  you  are,  I  will  sew  for  your  wife-and  for  nothing- a  fox-fur  coat  reaching  to  the  ankles,  lined  in  velvet  and  with  ten  tails.&quot;  &quot;What  went  on  in  the  town  that  day  is  indescrib-  able.  In  the  women's  sec-  tion  of  the  synagogue  they  heard  about  the  bet  and  there  was  bedlam.  Some  women  laughed,  others  cried.  Still  others  quarrelled  and  tried  to  snatch  the  bonnet  off  each  other's  head.  There  were  many  poor  people  in  town  and  a  few  rich  ones,  but  in  those  times  no  one  scrimped  on  a  holiday.  Every  third  citi-  zen  invited  guests  to  his  house  for  a  drink.  There  was  dancing  in  the  market-  place.  The  women  had  cooked  huge  pots  of  cab-  bage  with  raisins  and  cream  of  tartar.  They  had  baked  strudels,  tarts,  all  kinds  of  fruitcakes.  The  burial  so-  ciety  gave  a  banquet  and  mead  was  poured  like  wa-  ter.  One  of  the  elders  who  had  special  merit  in  the  eyes  of  the  community  was  honored  by  having  a  pump-  kin  with  lighted  candles  placed  on  his  head,  and  being  carried  on  the  shoulders  of  the  people  to  the  synagogue  yard.  Bevies  of  children,  the  holy  sheep,  ran  after  him  baaing.  There  was  in  town  a  he-goat  that  was  not  allowed  to  be  slaughtered  because  he  was  first  born,  and  urchins  put  a  furhat  on  his  horns  and  led  him  into  the  ritual  bath.  &quot;On  that  particular  day,there  was  only  one  topic  of  conversation-Jona-  than  tailor's  oath  and  the  usurer's  prom-  ise.  Reb  Zekele  the  usurercould  easily  afford  to  build  a  house  for  nothing,  but  how  could  Jonathan  become  a  scholar  in  one  year?  The  rabbi  immediately  announced  that  such  an  oath  was  not  valid.  In  times  of  old,  the  rabbi  said,  Jonathan  would  have  been  hit  thirty-  nine  times  with  a  belt  for  breaking  the  commandment  '&quot;'Thou  shalt  not  take  the  name  of  the  Lord  thy  God  in  vain.'  But  what  could  be  done  today?  The  town  became  divided  into  two  parties.  The  scholars  maintained  that  Jonathan  should  be  fined  and  that  he  must  come  in  his  stocking  feetto  the  synagogue  to  repent  in  public  for  giv-  ing  a  false  oath.  And  if  he  refused  he  should  be  excommunicated  and  his  shop  should  not  be  patronized.  The  rabble  threatened  to  burn  the  usurer's  house  and  drive  him  out  of  town  with  sticks.  Thank  God,  thereare  no  Jew-  " b"ish  robbers.  In  the  evening  of  the  holi-  day  everybody  became  sober.  It  began  to  rain,  and  everyone  returned  to  his  bundle  of  troubles.&quot;  &quot;Did  they  forget  the  whole  thing?&quot;  Zalman  glazier  asked.  &quot;Nothing  was  forgotten.  Just  wait,&quot;  Levi  Yitzchok  said.  Levi  Yitzchok  took  out  his  wooden  snuffbox,  opened  it,  sniffed,  and  sneezed  three  times.  His  snuff  was  famous.  He  put  into  it  smelling  salts  used  on  the  Day  of  Atonement  to  re-  vive  the  fasters.  He  wiped  his  red  nose  with  his  large  kerchief  and  said,  &quot;If  Getzel  the  apprentice  had  not  been  my  friend  I  would  not  have  known  all  the  details.  But  Getzel  boarded  at  Jonathan's,  and  he  told  me  everything.  When  Jonathan  came  home  that  eve-  ning,  the  moment  he  opened  the  door  he  exclaimed,  'Beila  Yenta,  your  hus-  band  has  died!  From  today  on  you  are  a  widow!  My  daughters,  you  are  all  orphans!'  They  began  to  cry,  as  on  the  ninth  day  of  Ab,  'Husband-  Father-how  can  you  leave  us?&quot;  And  Jonathan  answered,  'From  to-  day  until  the  day  of  the  Rejoicing  over  the  Law  next  year  you  have  no  provider.&quot;  &quot;He  had  hidden  behind  his  Passover  dishes  a  nest  egg  of  one  hundred  gul-  dens  saved  as  a  dowry  for  his  eldest  daughter,  Taube.  He  took  the  money  and  left  the  house.  There  was  in  town  a  man  called  Reb  Tevele  Scratch-Me,  Scratch-Me  was  of  course  a  nick-  name.  In  his  young  years  he  had  been  a  Talmud  teacher,  Like  all  teachers,  he  had  in  front  of  him  on  the  table  a  hare's  leg  at-  tached  to  a  leather  thong.  Yet  he  did  not  use  it  to  whip  the  children  but  to  scratch  himself.  He  suf-  fered  from  eczema  on  his  back.  When  it  began  to  itch  he  handed  the  hare's  leg  to  one  of  his  pupils  and  ordered,  'Scratch  me.'  That  is  how  he  got  his  name.  In  his  old  age  he  gave  up  teaching  and  lived  with  his  daugh-  ter.  His  son-in-law  was  a  pauper,  and  Tevele  Scratch-Me  lived  in  dire  poverty.  Jonathan  tailor  went  to  Reb  Tevele  and  asked  him,  'Do  you  want  to  earn  some  money?&quot;&quot;  'Who  doesn't  want  mon-  ey?&quot;  Tevele  asked  back.  And  Jonathan  said,  'I  will  pay  you  a  gulden  a  week  and  you  teach  me  the  whole  Torah!'  Tevele  burst  out  laughing.  ''The  whole  Torah-even  Moses  did  not  know  that!  The  Torah  is  like  tai-  loring,  without  an  end!'  They  spoke  a  long  time,  and  finally  it  was  decided  that  Tevele  would  teach  Jonathan  for  a  whole  year  and  make  him  a  greater  scholar  than  Zekele.  Jonathan  calcu-  lated  that  if  one  studied  seven  pages  of  the  Talmud  each  day  of  the  year,  all  the  thirty-seven  tractates  would  be  learned.  It  was  said  that  Zekele  had  not  gone  through  even  half  of  this.  Well-but  the  Talmud  isn't  enough.  One  had  also  to  study  Midrash,  the  Commentaries-why  draw  it  out?  Jonathan  tailor  became  a  yeshiva  boy.  He  sat  at  a  table  in  the  Study  House  day  and  night  and  studied  with  Tevele.  In  the  middle  of  the  week,  when  the  women's  section  was  empty,  they  car-  ried  their  volumes  up  there  in  order  not  to  be  disturbed.  If  I  tell  you  that  they  studied  eighteen  hours  a  day,  this  is  no  exaggeration.  All  week  long  Jonathan  slept  on  a  bench  in  the  Study  House.  He  went  home  to  sleep  only  on  the  Sabbath  and  holidays.&quot;  &quot;What  happened  to  his  family?&quot;  Zalman  asked.  &quot;What  happens  to  all  families  when  the  provider  goes?  They  did  not  die  of  hunger,  The  girls  all  went  into  service.  Beila  Yenta  was  a  seamstress,  and  she  accepted  light  work.  My  friend  Getzel  slowly  became  the  mas-  ter.  Jonathan  did  one  thing-he  stud-  ied.  Such  diligence  the  world  has  never  beheld!  Two  or  three  nights  a  week  he  didn't  sleep  at  all.  The  story  soon  spread  to  neighboring  villages,  and  people  came  to  stare  at  Jonathan  as  though  he  were  a  miracle  worker.  At  the  beginning,  Reb  Zekele  laughed  at  the  whole  business.  He  said,  'If  this  simpleton  can  become  a  scholar,  hair  will  grow  on  the  palms  of  my  hands.  Later  on,  toward  the  end  of  the  year,  people  began  to  tell  wonders  about  Jonathan's  acquired  knowledge.  He  recited  by  heart  whole  sections  from  the  Gemara.  He  could  anticipate  the  questions  of  such  commentators  as  Rabbi  Samuel  Tollish,  Rabbi  Meir  of  [REDACTED],  and  Rabbi  Solomon  Luria.  &quot;Now  Zekele  the  miser  grew  frightened.  He  too  began  to  burn  the  midnight  oil  to  overtake  Jonathan.  But  it  was  already  too  late.  Besides,  he  was  up  to  his  neck  in  business,  and  he  was  in  the  middle  of  a  lawsuit  to  boot.  His  wife,  Pesha,  a  greedy  crea-  ture  with  a  big  mouth,  was  terribly  eager  for  Jonathan  to  make  her  a  fox  coat  with  ten  tails  without  cost,  and  for  the  first  time  in  her  life  she  drove  her  husband  to  study.  But  it  did  not  work.  I  will  make  it  short.  On  the  eighth  day  of  Succoth,  the  seven  el-  ders  of  the  town  and  a  number  of  other  scholars  gathered  at  the  house  of  the  rabbi,  and  they  examined  Zekele  and  Jonathan  as  if  they  were  yeshiva  boys.  Zekele  had  forgotten  a  lot.  For  years  he  had  studied  only  on  the  Sabbath-  and  there  is  a  proverb  that  says  'He  who  studies  only  on  the  Sab-  bath  is  only  a  seventh  part  of  a  scholar&quot;  As  for  Jonathan,  he  re-  membered  almost  all  of  the  Talmud  by  heart.  His  teacher,  Tevele,  had  remarked  that  in  teaching  Jonathan  he  himself  became  erudite.  Not  only  did  Jonathan  show  knowledge  but  he  showed  astuteness  as  well.  The  rabbi's  house  was  jammed  with  peo-  ple.  Others  had  to  stand  outside  to  hear  Jonathan  discuss  the  Law  with  the  rabbi.  At  the  begin-  ning,  Zekele  tried  to  dis-  cover  flaws  in  Jonathan's  answers,  but  soon  the  tables  were  turned  and  " b"Jonathan  corrected  Zekele.  I  wasn't  there,  but  those  who  saw  Zekele  wran-  gle  with  Jonathan  tailor  about  some  dif-  ficult  passage  of  Maimonides  or  about  the  meaning  of  an  obscure  sentence  of  Rabbi  Meir  Schiff  swore  that  it  was  like  the  fight  between  David  and  Go-  liath.  Zekele  screamed  and  gasped  and  scolded  his  opponent  but  to  no  avail.  No,  Jonathan  tailor  did  not  swear  falsely.  The  rabbi  and  the  seven  el-  ders  unanimously  gave  the  verdict  that  Jonathan  was  more  of  a  scholar  than  Zekele.  Jonathan's  wife  and  daughters  were  sitting  in  the  kitchen,  and  when  they  heard  the  verdict  they  fell  upon  each  other  wailing.  The  town  seethed  like  a  kettle.  The  synagogue  was  full  of  tailors,  shoemakers,  combers  of  pig  bristles,  coachmen,  and  such.  It  was  their  victory.  &quot;The  next  day,  Jonathan  was  called  to  take  the  Scroll  first-not  by  error  this  time.  The  most  honored  people  invited  him  for  a  drink.  There  was  talk  that  now  Jonathan  could  become  a  rabbi  or  an  assistant  rabbi  or  at  least  a  ritual  slaughterer.  But  Jonathan  let  it  be  known  that  he  was  returning  to  his  scissors  and  press  iron.  Zekele  tried  to  avoid  the  payment  by  contending  that  he  did  not  swear  but  only  prom-  ised  and  a  promise  does  not  have  to  be  kept.  But  the  rabbi  ordered  him  to  build  a  house  for  Jonathan,  quoting  from  Deuteronomy:  'That  which  is  gone  out  of  thy  lips  thou  shalt  keep.  Zekele  procrastinated  as  long  as  he  could,  but  after  the  Feast  of  Shvuos  the  house  already  had  a  roof.  Only  then  did  Jonathan  make  it  known  that  he  didn't  want  the  house  for  himself  but  as  an  inn  for  yeshiva  boys  and  poor  travellers.  He  signed  a  document  giving  away  the  house  to  the  community.&quot;  &quot;He  remained  a  tailor,  eh?&quot;  Zal-  man  glazier  asked.  &quot;To  the  end.&quot;  &quot;Did  he  marry  off  his  daughters?&quot;  &quot;What  else?  There  is  no  Jewish  cloister.&quot;  LL  the  time  Levi  Yitzchok  was  speaking,  Meyer  the  Eunuch  was  making  gestures.  His  yellow  eyes  filled  with  laughter.  Then  he  closed  them,  lowered  his  head,  and  seemed  as  though  he  was  dozing.  Suddenly  he  straightened  up,  clutched  his  beardless  chin,  and  asked,  &quot;How  didthe  village  peddler  know  the  road  to  the  Holy  Land?  Most  probably  he  asked  the  way.  I  guess  he  wandered  over  the  Turkish  lands,  [REDACTED],  and  [REDACTED].  How  did  he  manage  to  eat?  Most  probably  he  begged.  There  are  Jews  everywhere.  Most  likely  he  slept  in  the  poorhouse.  In  warm  countries  one  can  even  sleep  in  the  streets.  As  for  Jona-  than  the  tailor,  I  assume  that  from  his  childhood  he  craved  for  learning,  and  the  power  of  will  is  strong.  There  is  a  saying:  'Your  will  can  make  you  a  genius.'  When  you  are  idle,  a  year  is  nothing,  but  if  you  study  day  and  night  with  diligence,  you  sop  it  up  like  a  sponge.  He  did  well  not  to  accept  the  house  from  Reb  Zekele,  because  it  is  forbidden  to  make  a  spade  for  digging  from  the  Torah.  As  it  was,  he  gained  in  addition  the  virtue  of  hospitality.  Leib  Belkes  and  Jonathan  were  both  simple  people-though  not  completely  so.  But  it  also  happens  with  great  men  that  they  get  an  obsession  in  their  minds.  There  is  a  saying:  'Greatness  too  has  its  share  of  insanity.&quot;  &quot;In  Bechtev  there  was  a  Cabalist,  Rabbi  Mendel.  He  was  descended  from  the  renowned  Hodel,  who  used  " b"to  dance  in  a  circle  with  the  Chassidim.  She  did  not,  God  forbid,  hold  directly  their  bare  hands.  She  kept  a  kerchief  over  each  hand,  and  the  Chassidim  held  on  to  the  kerchief,  Rabbi  Mendel  could  have  had  alarge  following,  but  he  disliked  crowds  and  discouraged  them.  Even  on  the  High  Holy  Days  he  didn't  get  more  than  a  few  score  in  his  Study  House.  His  wife  died  young,  and  she  didn't  leave  him  a  child  to  take  his  place  after  his  death.  Many  matches  were  proposed,  but  he  re-  fused  to  remarry.  His  followers  ar-  gued  with  him.  What  about  the  com-  mandment  'Be  fruitful  and  multiply?  But  the  rabbi  answered,  'I  am  going  to  get  so  many  whips  in  Gehenna  that  a  few  more  won't  matter.  Why  are  they  so  afraid  of  Gehenna?'  Since  the  Almighty  created  it,it  must  be  Para-  dise  in  disguise.&quot;  He  should  forgive  me,  but  he  was  a  devious  kind  of  saint-  but  a  great  spirit  just  the  same.  There  was  much  gossip  about  him,  but  he  didn't  care  a  fig.  It  even  happened  that  he  uttered  sharp  words  against  the  Lord  of  the  Universe.  Once  when  he  was  reciting  the  Psalms,  he  came  to  the  passage  'He  that  sitteth  in  the  Heavens  shall  laugh.'  Rabbi  Mendel  exclaimed,  'He  shall  laugh-but  I  am  crushed!'  When  those  who  opposed  him  heard  of  this  blasphemy  they  almost  managed  to  have  him  excommunicated.  &quot;The  disciples  of  the  Baal  Shem  did  not  believe  in  fasting.  Chassidism  was  exhilaration,  not  sadness.  But  Rabbi  Mendel  indulged  in  fasting.  He  began  by  fasting  only  on  Mondays  and  Thursdays.  Then  he  started  to  fast  from  one  Sabbath  to  the  next.  He  also  immersed  himself  in  cold  baths.  He  called  the  body  the  enemy,  and  he  would  say,  'You  don't  have  to  appease  an  enemy.  Of  course,  you  are  not  al-  lowed  to  kill  him,  but  neither  are  you  obliged  to  pamper  him  with  marzi-  pans.&quot;  His  old  Chassidic  followers  died  out  gradually.  The  younger  men  joined  the  courts  of  Gora  and  Kotzk.  There  remained  in  Rabbi  Mendel's  court  only  twenty  or  thirty  persistent  followers,  in  addition  to  a  few  hangers-  on  who  stayed  with  him  all  year  and  ate  from  the  common  pot.  An  oldbea-  dle,  stone  deaf,  cooked  porridge  for  them  every  day.  A  charitable  woman  went  from  house  to  house  for  them  and  collected  potatoes,  groats,  flour,  buckwheat,  and  whatever  else  she  was  offered.  &quot;One  Rosh  Hashanah  the  rabbi  had  no  more  than  twenty  people  in  his  Study  House.  The  following  Yom  Kippur  he  had  onlya  quorum,  includ-  ing  himself,  the  beadle,  and  the  hang-  ers-on.  At  the  pulpit,  Rabbi  Mendel  re-  cited  all  the  prayers-Kol  Nidre,  the  morning  prayer,  the  midday  prayer,  and  the  closing  prayer.  It  was  already  late  when  they  finished  the  night  prayer,  and  they  blessed  the  New  Moon.  The  beadle  offered  the  fasters  some  stale  bread  with  herring  and  some  chicken  soup.  None  of  them  had  any  teeth  left,  and  their  stomachs  had  shrunk  from  undernourishment.  Rabbi  Mendel  was  older  than  any  of  them,  but  his  voice  remained  young.  His  hearing,  too,  was  good.  The  rabbi  sat  at  the  head  of  the  table  and  spoke:  'Those  who  run  after  the  pleasures  of  the  world  don't  know  what  pleasure  is.  For  them  gluttony,  drinking,  lechery,  and  money  are  pleasures.  There  is  no  greater  delight  than  the  service  of  Yom  Kippur.  The  body  is  pure  and  the  soul  is  pure.  The  prayers  are  a  joy.  There  is  a  saying  that  from  confessing  one's  sins  one  does  not  get  fat.  It's  complete-  ly  false.  When  I  confess  my  sins  I  be-  come  alive  and  vigorous.  If  I  could  have  my  say  in  Heaven,  every  day  would  be  Yom  Kippur.'  &quot;After  the  rabbi  said  these  words  he  rose  from  his  chair  and  exclaimed,  'I  have  no  say  in  Heaven,  but  in  my  Study  House  I  do.  From  today  on  for  " b"me  it  will  be  a  perpetual  Yom  Kip-  pur-every  day  except  for  the  Sabbath  and  Feast  Days!&quot;  When  the  people  of  the  village  heard  what  the  rabbi  was  about  to  do,there  was  pandemonium.  The  scholars  and  the  elders  came  to  the  rabbi  and  asked,  Isn't  this  break-  ing  the  Law?&quot;  And  the  rabbi  replied,  'I  do  it  for  purely  selfish  reasons,  not  to  please  the  Creator.  If  they  punish  me  high  up,  I  will  accept  the  punish-  ment.  I  also  want  to  have  some  pleas-  ure  before  I  go!'  The  rabbi  called  out  to  his  beadle,  'Light  the  candles;  I  am  going  to  recite  Kol  Nidre&quot;  He  ran  over  to  the  pulpit  and  started  to  sing  Kol  Nidre.  I  wasn't  there,  but  those  who  were  present  declared  that  sucha  Kol  Nidre  had  not  beenheard  since  the  world  began.  All  of  Bechtev  came  running.  'They  thought  that  Rabbi  Mendel  had  lost  his  mind.  But  who  would  dare  to  tear  him  away  from  the  pulpit?  He  stood  there  in  his  whice  robe  and  prayer  shawl  and  recited  'It  shall  be  forgiven'  and  'Our  supplica-  tions  shall  rise.&quot;  His  voice  was  as  strong  as  a  lion's,  and  the  sweetness  of  his  singing  was  such  that  all  apprehensions  ceased.  I  will  make  it  short.  The  rabbi  lived  two  and  a  half  years  more,  and  those  two  and  a  half  years  were  one  long  Yom  Kippur.&quot;  Levi  Yitzchok  took  off  his  dark  glasses  and  asked,  &quot;What  did  he  do  about  phylacteries?  Didn't  he  put  on  phylacteries  on  weekdays?&quot;  &quot;He  put  them  on,&quot;  Meyer  the  Eu-  nuch  answered,  &quot;but  the  liturgy  was  that  of  Yom  Kippur.  Toward  evening  he  read  the  Book  of  Jonah.&quot;  &quot;Didn't  he  eat  a  bite  at  night&quot;&quot;  Zalman  the  glazier  asked.  &quot;He  fasted  six  days  of  the  week  un-  less  a  holiday  fell  in  the  middle  of  it.&quot;  &quot;And  the  hangers-on  fasted  with  him?&quot;  &quot;Some  left  him.  Others  died.&quot;  &quot;So  did  he  pray  to  the  bare  walls?&quot;  &quot;''There  were  always  people  who  came  to  look  and  wonder.&quot;  &quot;And  the  world  allowed  some-  thing  like  this?&quot;  Levi  Yitz-  chok  asked.  &quot;Who  was  going  to  wage  war  against  a  holy  man?  They  dreaded  his  irritation,&quot;  Meyer  the  Eunuch  said.  &quot;One  could  clearly  see  that  Heaven  approved.  When  a  man  fasts  so  long,  his  voice  grows  weak,  he  doesn't  have  the  strength  to  stand  on  his  feet.  But  therabbi  stood  for  all  the  prayers.  Those  who  saw  him  told  how  his  face  shone  like  the  sun.  He  slept  no  longer  than  three  hours-  in  his  prayer  shawl  and  robe,  with  his  forehead  leaning  on  the  'Tractate  Yoma,'  ex-  actly  as  it  did  at  Yom  Kip-  pur.  At  midday  prayer  he  kneeled  and  intoned  the  lit-  urgy  concerning  the  service  in  the  Holy  Temple  of  Je-  rusalem.&quot;  &quot;What  did  he  do  when  it  actually  was  Yom  Kippur?&quot;  Zalman  the  glazier  asked.  &quot;The  same  as  any  other  day.&quot;  &quot;Inever  heard  this  story,&quot;  Levi  Yitzchok  said.  &quot;Rabbi  Mendel  was  a  hid-  den  saint,  and  of  those  one  hears  little.  Even  today  Bechtev  is  a  forsaken  village.  In  those  times  it  was  far  away  from  everything-a  swampamong  forests.  Even  in  the  summer  it  was  diffi-  cult  to  reach  it.  In  the  winter  the  snow  made  the  roads  im-  passable.  The  sleighs  got  stuck.  And  there  was  the  danger  of  bears  and  wolves.&quot;  It  became  quiet.  Levi  Yitzchok  took  out  his  snuffbox.  &quot;Nowadays  some-  thing  like  this  would  not  be  permitted.&quot;  &quot;Greater  transgressions  than  that  are  allowed  in  our  day,&quot;  Meyer  said.  &quot;How  did  hedie?&quot;  &quot;At  the  pulpit.  He  was  standing  up  reciting,  'What  can  man  attain  when  death  is  all  he  can  gain?&quot;  When  he  came  to  the  verse  'Only  charity  and  prayer  may  mitigate  death's  despair,&quot;  the  rabbi  fell  down  and  his  soul  de-  parted.  It  was  a  kiss  from  Heaven-  a  saint's  death.&quot;  Zalman  glazier  put  some  tobacco  into  the  bowl  of  his  pipe.  &quot;What  was  the  sense  of  it?&quot;  Meyer  the  Eunuch  pondered  for  a  while,  and  then  said,  &quot;Everything  can  become  a  passion-even  serving  God.&quot;  "