 b"STAND  outside  his  house  any   morning  and  you  will  see  her  opening  the  curtains-an  en-  ergetic,  middle-aged  black  woman  hauling  on  the  tasselled  cord  like  a  bell  ringer.  She  wears  a  gray  uniform.  Her  face  is  so  dark  that  it  appears  to  have  no  features.  Behind  her,  Dr.  Johnson  is  a  mountain  of  light  propped  against  the  pillows,  facing  the  pic-  ture  window-a  large  white  face  and  a  spray  of  white  hair,  pale  pajamas,  white  stringy  hands  resting  on  the  blankets.  This  is  the  living  room,  thoughDr.  Johnson's  high-crowned  mahogany  bedstead  has  ruled  it  for  the  last  six  weeks.  Through  this  win-  dow  it  is  possible  to  see  everything:  all  the  columns  of  roses  on  his  wallpaper  and  the  clutter  of  get-well  cards,  geology  textbooks,  and  ungraded  pa-  pers;  the  furniture  clumped  hastily  together  to  make  way  for  the  bed.  It  is  possible,  without  even  spying,  to  ob-  serve  how  Maroon  bends  to  offer  a  pill,  or  perhaps  a  choice  of  breakfasts,  and  how  Dr.  Johnson  raises  his  pale,  blind-  looking  eyes  to  her  face.  Maroon  straightens  up.  Dr.  Johnson's  hair  flashes  silver,  sending  glints  of  light  across  the  room.  Here,  if  nowhere  else,  care  is  being  taken.  BENNETT  Jonson  waits  in  an  arm-  chair  after  breakfast  this  morning  while  his  sheets  are  changed.  Cold  white  domes  billow  over  his  mattress,  settle  and  collapse.  Maroon   slogs  around  the  bed  in  shoes  from  the  late  fifties  with  needle-sharp  toes,  spindly  heels  worn  down  to  the  wood,  and  slits  for  her  bunions.  Her  body  is  boardlike,  wide  and  flat  and  sparse,  and  her  gray  hair  is  boardlike,  too,  from  all  the  straightener  she  has  used.  Her  ankles,  however,  are  small  and  curved,  deli-  cate  as  wineglasses,  a  continual  sur-  prise  to  Bennett.  He  ponders  them,  disconcerted.  Maroon  pats  and  tucks  and  smooths.  She  is  talking  about  her  sister,  the  one  with  asthma.  [REDACTED].  Allher  sisters  were  named  for  colors,  all  her  brothers  for  Presidents.  Bennett  feels  he  knows  every  one  of  them,  though  most  are  dead.  Cancer  has  swept  that  family  like  an  epidemic,  eating  them  alive.  First  her  mother,  then  two  sisters,  then  a  brother,  then  another  brother.  Never,  not  in  even  a  single  case,  did  the  doc-  tors  tell  them  ahead  of  time.  They  patched  them  up,  handed  out  pills  much  too  small  and  round  for  the  pain  involved,  and  sent  them  shuffling  out  of  the  clinic  still  bent  over  and  clutch-  ing  at  liver,  breast,  or  stomach.  Now  Maroon  wonders  if  [REDACTED]'s  asthma  could  be  cancer  also.  Bennett  knows  very  well  that  [REDACTED]'s  asthma  dates  from  her  childhood,  forty-odd  years  ago,  but  he  says  nothing.  He  rests  on  the  curve  of  Maroon's  rich  voice,  her  habit  of  croaking  upward  suddenly  at  the  end  of  each  sentence.  Last  night,  she  says,  she  was  in  the  emergency  room  for  five  and  one-quar-  ter  hours  just  soothing  and  calming  [REDACTED],  waiting  on  some  doctor  to  take  the  time  to  notice  them.  In  the  end,  she  had  to  go  on  home.  She  needed  her  rest;  there  was  Dr.  Johnson  to  see  toin  the  morning  and  you  Zxow,  she  said  to  [REDACTED],  how  Dr.  Johnson  is  so  particular  about  people  being  on  time.  She  had  to  leave  [REDACTED]  all  alone  there  on  a  bench  just  huntingup  the  oxygen  for  one  last  breath.  And  if  [REDACTED]  dies,  who  will  Maroon  have  left?  Her  fa-  ther  fell  off  a  construction  job  eighteen  years  ago,  her  last  remaining  brother  lives  in  New  York  City  with  a  light-  colored  wife,  her  many  nieces  (all  named  Cherie,  it  seems  to  Bennett)  have  no  time  for  grownups.  Sunday  nights  now,  when  she  and  [REDACTED]  send  out  for  Chinese,  they  ask  forthe  small-  est  order  the  restaurant  will  deliver  and  still  it  is  too  much  for  them.  Used  to  be  their  family  would  crowd  the  dining  room  and  flow  on  into  the  par-  lor  and  there  was  never  enough  Chi-  nese  to  go  round,  but  not  anymore.  When  [REDACTED]  dies,  Maroon  will  be  left  all  alone  in  her  dark  rowhouse  in  downtown  [REDACTED].  She  will  be,  she  says,  at  the  mercy  of  the  neighbor  boys  whose  parents  never  raised  them  right,  no-account  niggers  strung  out  on  dope  and  glue  and  Pam,  idling  under  her  street  light  dis-  turbing  her  rest,  scuffing  her  stoop,  bouncing  a  basketball  be-  neath  her  window  and  nobody  daring  to  complain  for  fear  of  worse.  She  would  like  to  see  them  locked  up  forever,  she  says,  tortured,  starved,  put  to  death  in  electric  chairs.  (She  slaps  the  pillows  hard,  with  a  flat  yellow  palm.)  She  would  not  mind,  herself,  twisting  the  knife  in  their  in-  nards.  She  is  a  hardworking,  church-  going  woman  who  has  feared  the  Lord  all  her  life,  reads  her  Bible  daily,  minds  her  own  business,  and  she  cannot  stand  to  see  how  some  worthless,  shiftless  bastards  will  get  to  take  everything  like  they  have  it  coming  to  them.  Bennett  eases  himself  between  the  cool  sheets,  guarding  his  heart.  He  has  become  all  pulse;  he  is  aware,  every  second,  of  the  beating  of  his  blood  in  his  ears;  he  weighs  it  and  judges  it.   But  Maroon  talks  on,  and  leaves  still  talking,  and  does  not  think  to  ask  him  if  he  can  make  it  through  the  day.  f  I  HIS  morning  is  so  long,  and  so  blank,  that  Bennett  wonders  if  he  has  already  died  and  gone  to  Purga-  tory.  He  has  nowhere  to  look  but  out  his  picture  window  :  a  postcard  scene  of  other  people's  landscaped  ranch  houses,  occasional  glimpses  of  women  in  slip-  pers  and  curlers  and  raincoats  depart-  ing  and  returning  in  station  wagons.  Later  they  will  appear  wearing  very  short  tennis  dresses,  looking  as  perky  as  the  little  girls  he  went  to  grammar  school  with;  later  still,  just  around  lunchtime,  in  pants  suits  that  turn  them  square-hipped  and  bossy.  He  is  meas-  uring  out  his  days  with  women's  cloth-  ing.  Sometimes  he  thinks  the  irritation  of  it  will  make  him  grind  his  teeth  down  toa  fine,  gritty  powder.  He  lifts  himself  to  slam  his  pillow  around,  hunt-  ing  coolness,  and  then  remembers  his  heart  and  thinks:  calm,  level;  and  sinks  back  and  takes  a  slow  deep  breath.  He  hears  Maroon's  radio  from  the  kitchen.  She  is  listening  toa  revivalist  preacher  with  a  voice  like  a  cough.  If  you  send  in  two  dollars,  the  preacher  will  mention  your  name  on  the  air  and  the  name  of  your  affliction;  for  five,  he  will  mail  you  a  miraculous  printed  prayer  that  has  solved  the  problems  of  countless  thousands.  But  Maroon  never  settles  for  second  best  and  she  is  going  to  send  him  not  two  dollars,  not  five,  but  tex,as  soon  as  she  gets  it  saved  up.  She  wants  the  prayer  in  its  parchment  version-em-  bedded  in  Lucitee--which  will  double  as  a  paperweight.  What  problem  does  she  need  solved,  Bennett  wonders.  Her  sister's  asthma,  her  brother's  light-colored  wife?  Will  she  tell  God  to  strike  all  the  neighbor  boys  dead?  Bennett  has  asked  her,  but  she  will  not  answer.  She  has  her  secrets,  Today  she  sits  in  the  kitchen,  no  doubt  thumbing  through  her  Bible-a  de-luxe  version  with  a  ribbon  marker,  the  Zest  thing  she  saved  up  for,  eight  ninety-eight  reduced  from  ten  ninety-five  at  Cut-Rate  Drugs  and  Beauty.  (Itis  written  in  mod-  ern  language,  she  says;  perhaps  now  she  will  understand  the  stories  better.)  On  Sundays,  Maroon  teaches  Sun-  day  school,  a  class  of  sullen  teen-agers;  on  Mondays,  she  comes  in  and  com-  plains  about  them  to  Bennett.  (She  asks  them  who  was  Jacob  and  they  answer,  What  do  they  care  who  was  Jacob?  )  When  she  tells  him  this,  Ben-  nett  feels  that  he  is  drowning  in  de-  spair.  He  issues  loud  angry  instructions  that  are  bad  for  his  heart:  she  mustn't  " b"teach  that  class  anymore,  mustn't  keep  buying  newer  and  bigger  Bibles,  must  cease  believing  in  that  redneck  preach,  er  on  the  radio.  But  there  she  sits  in  the  kitchen  with  the  radio  turned  full  blast.  The  preacher  ends  and  the  hymn  begins-'&quot;In  the  Garden,&quot;  sung  by  the  ladies'  choir.  Their  shrill,  mourn-  ful  voices  make  him  suddenly  sad.  He  would  expect  Maroon  to  sing  along  (she  does  have  a  voice,  of  sorts;  she  often  hums  something  unrecognizable  when  she  is  washing  the  dishes),  but  today  she  is  quiet,  respectfully  quiet,  silent  and  no  doubt  motionless,  perhaps  even  bowing  her  head-a  fact  that  makes  him  sadder  still.  BENNETT  is  capable  now  of  going  to  the  bathroom  by  himself,  and  at  eleven  o'clock  he  does  so-the  major  event  of  his  morning.  He  rises  by  degrees  and  creeps  across  the  corri-  dor,  patting  each  piece  of  furniture  he  comes  upon.  It  is  amazing  how  far  away  and  white  his  feet  appear.  He  has  been  horizontal  for  so  long-first  in  the  hospital,  tented,  and  now  here  at  home.  The  doctors  keep  referring  to  his  heart  attack  as  &quot;massive&quot;-a  word  that  surprises  him.  He  is  reminded  of  &quot;massif.&quot;  (He  is  a  geology  professor.)  He  thinks  of  mountainous  rock,  un-  veined,  uneroded:  the  very  opposite  of  this  heart  of  his,  which  must  surely  be  in  tatters.  Weren't  its  jagged  edges  the  cause  of  thepain  he  first  felt?  (He  was  carrying  his  lunch  tray  across  the  cafe-  teria  when  fragments  suddenly  crum-  pled  in  his  chest  and  nudged  each  oth-  er.  Then  broken  crockery  lay  on  the  floor  around  his  head.)  He  has  been  sickly  all  his  life-a  pale,  rheumatic  child  desperately  dependent  upon  his  mother;  it  is  no  news  to  him  that  his  heart  is  fragile.  Now  even  his  skin  seems  cracked,  his  hands  transparent,  as  if  everything  in  him  has  leached  out.  He  feels  weak  and  pure  and  helpless.  He  wonders  why  Maroon  cannot  leave  her  fool  radio  program  long  enough  to  come  assist  him  here.  As  a  self-indul-  gence,  he  neglects  to  raise  the  toilet  seat,  although  Maroon  has  spoken  to  him  about  that  more  than  once.  UNCH  today  is  chicken  noodle  soup,  unsalted,  and  fresh  fruit  and  a  glass  of  skim  milk.  Bennett  eats  from  an  enamelled  tray,  Maroon  from  a  card  table  set  up  in  the  corner.  (She  will  not  takea  meal  alone.)  Constant-  ly  he  cranes  his  neck  to  see  what  she  has  on  her  plate,  for  Maroon  is  a  greedy  woman.  Also,  her  taste  is  sur-  prisingly  good.  She  demands  the  best-  no  junk  food,  nothingcanned,  every-  thing  top  quality  and  natural  and  real. Real  butter  and  cream,  real  percolated  coffee,  double-rich  French  vanilla  ice  cream  for  dessert,  while  his  doctor  keeps  him  on  margarine,  Cremora,  weak  tea,  and  D-Zerta.  He  wishes  she  would  eat  in  the  kitchen.  He  notices  that  after  finishing  each  dish  she  pounds  her  chest  with  her  fist,  bringing  up  a  burp.  Her  nails  are  opaque  and  yellow  and  too  long.  If  there  were  any  decent  help  in  this  city,  he  would  not  have  her  around  for  another  day.  When  he  asks  for  his  tea,  she  shoves  her  chair  back  and  goes  to  fetch  it,  still  chewing.  Now  that  the  radio  is  off  he  can  hear  every  slam  of  cupboard  doors  and  rattle  of  silver,  and  he  strains  his  ears  to  find  out  if  itis  tea-bag  she  is  using  or  Twinings.  No  use  to  ask  out-  right  for  Twinings;  she  will  pretend  not  to  hear.  He  must  simply  wait,  endur-  ing  her  tyranny,  tasting  Twinings  on  the  center  of  his  tongue  (Earl  Grey,  the  taste  of  comfort).  Is  she  taking  so  long  on  purpose?  He  feels  that  he  has  never  been  so  thirsty  in  his  life:  he  is  racked  by  thirst;  even  the  soles  of  his  feet  are  parched.  And  when  she  re-  turns,  sloshing  hot  water  into  the  sau-  cer  from  the  cracked  bluecup,  the  little  tea-bag  banner  fluttering  in  the  breeze  she  makes,  he  is  ready  to  smash  her  face  in;  but  he  only  takes  his  tea  and  nods.  N  the  period  after  lunch  that  is  sup-  posed  to  be  Bennett's  nap,  Maroon  chooses  to  straighten  his  room.  She  stacks  sheaves  of  paper  already  stacked,  moves  books  an  inch  to  the  right  or  left,  picks  up  a  get-well  card  to  stroke  its  flocked  flower  basket,  which  she  has  already  worn  nearly  bald.  As  he  watches,  Bennett  wonders  what  she  wants  of  him,  personally-what  be-  sides  her  pay,  her  meals,  and  the  left-  overs  she  sneaks  out  of  the  kitchen  every  night  in  a  string-handled  shop-  ping  bag.  Maybe  shehas  some  ques-  tion  that  only  he  can  answer,  or  some  " b"dark  admission  she  is  bracing  herself  to  make  to  him.  Perhaps  she  is  consider-  ing  settling  slowly,  weightily  upon  his  bed,  looming  closer  and  closer  until  her  face  connects  with  his  like  a  shad-  ow.  His  toes  curl.  But  Maroon  merely  sets  the  card  down,  gives  the  table  a  swipe  with  the  dustcloth,  and  moves  on.  She  retrieves  a  torn  envelope  from  the  floor  and  lays  it  upon  a  bookcase.  Are  maids  trained  specifically  to  throw  nothing  away,  to  humor  their  employ-  ers'  fondness  for  old  matchbooks,  scraps  of  paper,  and  ticket  stubs?  Are  maids  trained  at  all?  Presumably  not.  Like  wives  and  mothers,  they  are  supposed  to  just  know.  He  watches  her  turn  a  flattened  cushion  in  a  cane-bottomed  rocker.  He  listens  to  her  ramble:  Vio-  let  again,  then  Cherie's  graduation,  then  the  boy  who  shot  her  window-  pane  out.  In  Aer  day,  when  she  was  that  boy's  age  ...and  on  about  how  hard  she  worked,  a  little  skinny  rag  of  a  girl  (he  can  see  her,  smaller  but  just  as  old),  scrubbing  white  folks'  white  marble  stoops  at  fifteen  cents  a  throw.  Then  when  she  was  twelve  .  ..  He  remembers  when  she  was  twelve.  He  remembers  every  blessed  minute  as  clearly  as  if  he  has  lived  it  himself,  he  has  heard  it  so  often.  How  she  worked  for  Mrs.  Jeffrey  Simpson-Jones  out  in  Roland  Park  for  seventeen  years  straight-an  admirable  record.  (Yes,  but  he  is  tired  of  it  anyway,  and  has  nev-  er  understood  why  some  people  insist  on  having  hyphenated  names.)  How  she  was  called  in  one  sunny  day  with  no  warning  at  all:  they  reckoned  she  had  noticed  that  for  a  long  time  now  Mrs.  Simpson-Jones  had  been  sleeping  in  the  guest  room.  Fact  was  they  were   getting  a  divorce,  putting  the  house  up  for  sale,  taking  away  the  children  that  Maroon  had  raised  like  her  own;  they  hoped  it  was  no  inconvenience.  Bennett's  head  nods.  His  eyes  droop.  He  is  not  so  much  sleepy  as  exhausted,  worn  down  to  the  bone,  and,  for  a  wonder,  Maroon  sees  it  and  stops  her  chattering.  She  rustles  one  last  thing  on  the  table  and  then  goes  to  close  the  curtains.  He  hears  her  careful,  obvious  tiptoeing,  and  the  rasping  sound  of  her  stockings,  which  are  so  thick  and  serviceable  that  they  constitute  a  re-  proach,.  He  catches  her  scent  of  gray  scrubwater  as  she  passes.  She  with-  draws  herself  like  aquestion  she  has  regretted  asking,  leaving  him  wide-  awake  again  and  staring  at  the  ceiling.  He  knows  Mrs.  Simpson-Jones.  (Or  might  as  well.)  He  knows  [REDACTED],  whom  he  has  never  seen  and  never  wanted  to.  Also  the  Cheries:  one,  two,  and  three,  and  four  if  there  is  a  four.  He  knows  Maroon's  husband,  now  dead-a  white  lady's  chauffeur  who  did  not  like  fatback  in  his  beans  or  peas  in  his  potato  salad.  Who  was  so  house-  proud  that  he  would  not  even  have  children  but  must  spend  his  salary  on  white  carpeting  and  then  clear  plastic  runners  for  the  carpet,  white  couches  and  then  clear  plastic  slipcovers  forthe  couches,  and  a  glittering  icy  chandelier  forthe  dining  room,which  Maroon  spends  every  Saturday  polishing,  prism  by  prism,  with  newspapers  dipped  in  vinegar.  She  will  polish  it  until  she  dies,  old  and  childless  and  quarrelsome,  or  until  the  neighbor  boys  shoot  it  down  with  their.22s.  And  when  the  chande-  lier  is  polished  there  is  the  curly-maple  curio  cabinet  full  of  dime-store  fig-  urines,  which  she  has  described  to  Ben-  nett  a  thousand  times.  He  is  confused  by  her  economic  inconsistencies:  she  will  haggle  over  a  fifty-cent  crab  in  Lexington  Market  and  go  home  with-  out  it,  shaking  her  head,  but  just  re-  cently  she  purchased  an  overpriced  table  lamp  in  the  shape  of  a  Greek  temple,  with  a  Japanese  doll  ina  real  silk  kimono  standing  inside  it  holding  a  parasol  while  twisted  strands  of  catgut  shimmer  all  around  her,  giving  the  ef-  fect  of  rain.  (At  least,  Maroon  seys  it  is  catgut.  Bennett  has  never  seen  it.)  He  finds  her  thirst  for  possessions  dis-  turbing;  he  dislikes  the  way  she  some-  times  fingers  the  fabric  of  his  bathrobe  while  hanging  it,  or  strokes  the  mot-  tled,  jewel-like  centers  of  the  agates  on  his  bookshelf.  Though  he  is  an  intel-  ligent  man,  and  reminds  himself  daily  of  all  she  has  been  deprived  of.  This  woman,  who  until  his  illness  was  a  mere  shadow  dusting  his  study,  or  a  supper  left  in  the  oven  when  he  came  home  at  night,  has  somehow  woven  all  her  memories  into  his  so  that  now  it  seems  he  has  led  two  lives,  not  merely  one.  His  own  memoriese-his  sickly  childhood,  sisterless,  brotherless,  his  mother's  death,  his  settled,  tranquil  bachelor's  existence-seem,  if  any-  thing,  less  clear  to  him  than  Maroon's.  Maroon's  voice  threads  in  and  out  of  his  head,  complaining  and  protesting  and  discussing.  He  would  like  to  sleep.  Maroon  will  not  let  him.  He  is  forced  to  recall  that  her  husband  died  of  over-  work,  driving  his  white  lady  to  a  43616e616461Carolina  hunt  club  too  soon  after  a  minor  stroke;  that  he  left  no  insur-  ance;  that  his  four  uppity  sisters  pub-  lish  a  memorial  for  him  in  [REDACTED]  once  " b"a  year  but  make  no  mention  of  his  wife,  as  they  are  light-skinned  and  she  is  dark.  But,  Bennett  wants&quot;  to  say,  fighting  her  with  the  weapons  she  has  handed  him  herself.  He  would  like  to  remind  her  of  the  fancy  parties  she  attends,  given  by  friends  in  church  who  have  risen  in  the  world;  those  Saturday-night  affairs  she  bores  him  to  death  with  on  Monday  morning-  every  crumb  of  food  described  in  de-  tail,  the  potatoes  tinted  pink  to  match  the  carpeting  and  the  pink  champagne,  and  the  Chinese  carry-out,  floral  cen-  terpieces  costing  one  hundred  and  twenty-four  dollars,  leather-covered  bars  at  each  end  of  the  room  and  an  extra  one  in  the  basement.  He  would  like  to  remind  her  of  Cherie's  gradua-  tion,  at  which  Maroon  and  [REDACTED]  cried  for  joy  (the  first  diploma  in  the  fam-  ily)  and  Cherie  wore  nylon  net  and  had  more  girl  friends  than  anyone  else,  some  of  them  white,  all  of  them  turn-  ing  her  class  ring  for  her,  which  was  the  custom:  to  turn  your  class  ringa  hundred  times  and  make  a  wish,  He  does  silent  battle  with  her  and  wins,  and  sinks  back  on  the  pillow  to  sleep.  Then  Maroon  comes  to  open  his  cur-  tains  and  asks  if  he  has  had  a  good  nap.  No  doubt  she  is  puzzled  by  the  weary  way  he  turns  his  face  from  her.  BENNETT  gathers  his  strength  and  makes  another  trip  to  the  bath-  room,  after  which  he  tries  to  grade  a  few  papers.  It  seems  very  strange  to  him  that  he  should  ever  have  been  in-  terested  in  the  basalt  magma  of  the  Mid-Ocean  Ridge.  Nevertheless  he  works  steadily,  managing  to  correct  four  papers  before  discouragement  creeps  upon  him.  Also  he  answers  three  telephone  calls-neighbor  wom-  en,  returning  from  their  luncheons,  dutifully  checking  to  see  if  he  needs  anything.  He  tells  them  he  is  fine.  He  has  no  needs  whatsoever.  At  four  o'clock  two  colleagues  drop  by  with  his  mail  and  bank  papers,  their  classes  over  for  the  day.  One  is  a  wid-  ower  and  one  divorced.  'They  have  plenty  of  time  to  spare  for  him.  They  make  themselves  short  drinks  from  the  liquor  cabinet  near  his  bed-Scotch,  neat,  no  ice  because  it  would  trouble  Maroon.  They  settle  in  armchairs  and  discuss  the  new  department  chairman,  then  a  recent  field  trip,  then  a  book  that  one  of  them  is  writing.  Bennett  would  like  to  bring  up  Maroon  (some-  times  he  lets  off  a  little  steam  that  way,  grimaces  toward  the  kitchen  like  a  schoolboy  ),  but  itis  too  late.  She  has  entered  the  room,  carrying  two  trays.  One  is  for  Bennett:  toast  and  frozen  orange  juice,  bland  as  hospital  fare.  The  other  is  for  her,  something  hot  and  meaty.  Bennett  has  never  figured  out  why  he  needs  a  snack  at  this  hour,  or  why  she  must  eat  hers  while  his  friends  are  here,  or  what  excuse  she  could  have  for  helping  herself  to  what  is  obviously  supper  when  she  is  supposed  to  be  home  by  suppertime.  He  has  con-  sidered  asking  her  outright,  but  some-  thing  stops  him-perhaps  his  friends'  stiff,  embarrassed  expressions  as  they  stare  down  into  their  drinks.  The  only  sound  now  is  the  clinking  of  Maroon's  silverware  upon  her  plate.  Her  steady  munching  and  swallowing.  A  fist  thumping  her  chest.  He  wishes  it  were  his  fist.  The  clinking  resumes,  louder  than  he  would  have  thought  possible.  He  cannot  tolerate  the  way  she  dabs  at  the  corners  of  her  mouth  with  a  napkin  like  a  dustcloth.  Most  of  all  he  de-  spises  her  hunger,  this  endless  reaching,  grasping,  chewing,  gulping.  But  all  he  does  is  crumble  his  toast,silently,  upon  his  plate.  After  a  while,  his  friends  make  their  excuses  and  leave.  NOW  the  sky  is  darkening  and  Maroon  closes  the  curtains  again.  Bennett's  life  has  become  a  continual  opening  and  shutting  of  curtains.  She  stacks  the  whiskey  glasses  and  alters,  very  slightly,  the  position  of  the  chairs  his  friends  were  sitting  in.  Meanwhile  she  is  talking  about  last  weekend:  a  neighbor  lady  said  she  would  pay  Ma-  roon  good  for  staying  with  her  little  girl.  Then  what  did  she  pay  but  a  quart  of  beer  gone  flat  and  half  a  broiled  chicken,  and  here  Maroon  had  already  eat  and  would  rather,  anyway,  have  had  a  dollar  or  two  to  make  up  the  cost  of  the  reverend's  prayer.  She  would  willingly  starve,  she  says,  if  she  could  just  get  her  hands  on  that  prayer,  for  the  radio  said  it  answered  all  ques-  tions  and  solved  all  problems  and  would  double  as  a  paperweight.  Ben-  nett  is  still  angry  with  her,  too  angry  to  talk,  but  the  professor  in  him  stirs  and  sits  up  and  he  nearly  makes  her  an  offer:  she  could  ask  Aim  her  question.  He  holds  his  tongue,  though.  He  lies  flat,  injured  and  bitter.  Maroon  lets  loose  a  yellow  pool  of  lamplight  and  leaves  with  the  trays.  Each  distant  clatter  in  the  kitch-  en  cuts  another  notch  in  Bennett's  soul.  He  wishes  to  write  someone  a  letter  of  protest  about  her  name,  that  " b"ugly,  awkward  name  so  unfortunate-  ly  suited  to  her  face.  Her  smallest  ac-  tion  is  a  crime:  her  toast  burned  black  around  the  edges;  her  thoughtless  hauling  upon  the  fragile  curtain-pull;  the  uncared-for,  dismal  look  of  this  room  with  the  furniture  shoved  every  which  way  and  the  afghan  slapped  crooked  across  the  foot  of  the  bed.  There  is  nothing  satisfactory  about  her.  He  cannot  name  one  thing.  Still,  he  is  forced  to  remember  that  she  lives  huddled  up  in  musty  dark  rooms,  fearing  for  her  life.  That  her  Sunday-school  superintendent  accuses  her  weekly  of  stupidity  and  her  one  last  sister  sucks  air  aloud  like  someone  strangling;  that  the  gas  man  stole  five  dollars  from  her  bureau-or  so  she  says-and  an  electrician  promised  to  rewire  her  home  for  safety  but  left  with  her  deposit  and  not  even  his  wife  knows  where  he  is.  That  her  burial  insurance  has  lapsed,  though  she  swears  she  has  paid  her  quarter  every  Saturday  of  her  life.  That  some  time  ago,  while  tak-  ing  her  salary  home,  she  was  beaten  and  robbed  by  two  young  men  whom  she  could  not  identify,  and  still  has  a  yellow  swollen  patch  below  one  eye  if  you  look  closely.  That  she  does  not  sleep  well,  has  not  for  years,  but  now  since  the  beating  has  nights  when  she  never  even  closes  her  eyes,  and  at  the  clinic  they  made  her  stop  taking  pare-  goric  and  sent  her  to  a  psychiatrist,  who  asked  if  she  was  depressed.  Depressed?  (Her  voice  echoes  now  in  Bennett's  memory.)  No,  she  wouldn't  say  she  was  depressed.  She  tries  to  keep  busy,  she  goes  outa  lot,  she  goes  to  a  lot  of  parties,  lot  of  church  affairs.  She  wouldn't  say  she  was  depressed.  The  psychiatrist  pre-  scribed  Valium,  which  does  not  make  her  feel  as  fine  as  paregoric.  Also  group  therapy.  Five  dollars  an  hour-more  than  she  can  afford-and  anyway  she  doesn't  understand  these  things.  She  went  only  once.  There  were  a  lot  of  people  discussing  their  own  affairs,  which  she  didn't  see  the  point  of  on  her  five  dollars-white  girl  brooding  on  suicide,  white  man  saying  he  don't  relate  to  women,  oh  she  just  didn't  have  time  for  this,  so  she  opened  a  magazine  and  read  till  they  took  notice  of  her  and  then  she  spoke  up.  She  couldn't  sleep,  she  said.  She  would  lie  awake  all  night,  remembering  that  first  blow  of  the  fist  just  below  her  eye  and  then  her  husband  dying  alone  in  43616e616461Carolina,  before  she  could  find  the  money  to  get  to  him,  and  it  didn't  seem  fair  when  she  had  never  done  a  soul  any  harm  and  only  tried  to  live  right-  wouldn't  even  drink  beer  on  Sundays,  though  her  guests  might  have  wished  she  would  offer  them  some.  But  the  other  patients  just  looked  at  her  (white  folks,  mostly)  like  they  didn't  under-  stand.  She  has  never  gone  back.  Bennett  tosses  on  his  bed,  and  lays  his  forearm  across  his  eyes  to  shut  the  lamplight  out.  It  seems  to  him  that  years  have  passed  since  morning.  T  five-thirty,  the  doctor  comes-  an  old  friend,  hearty  and  arti-  ficial  now  that  Bennett  is  his  patient.  He  neither  listens  to  Bennett's  heart  nor  takes  his  pulse  but  sits  on  the  edge  of  the  bed  analyzing  a  football  game  that  Bennett  has  not  seen  and  never  wanted  to  see.  Nevertheless,  it  is  an-  noying  to  have  Maroon  come  stand  in  the  doorway.  Is  nothing  private?  The  doctor,  perhaps  jolted  into  action  by  her  presence,  drops  the  football  game  and  starts  probing  into  details  of  Bennett's  life.  He  asks  about  constipation,  chest  pains,  mental  attitude,  diet.  He  wants  to  know  if  Bennett  is  still  suffering  those  empty  dizzy  spells  in  the  night.  Also,  if  he  is  avoiding  eggs,  if  he  needs  more  sleeping  tablets,  if  he  notices  any  adverse  symptoms  after  drinking  tea.  Bennett  replies  carefully,  weighing  ev-  ery  word  before  he  speaks.  Halfway  through  the  visit,  both  men  are  startled  by  the  sudden,  eye-batting  explosion  of  the  door  as  Maroon  slams  off  to  the  kitchen.  I  I  ER  last  act  of  the  day  is  to  bring  him  his  supper.  She  lays  it  on  his  knees  and  props  his  pillow.  Already  she  is  set  to  go,  wearing  a  faded  dress,  a  string  of  pink  pearls,  and  a  crocheted  hat.  Her  linty  black  coat  will  be  wait-  ing  in  the  hall  along  with  her  string-  handled  shopping  bag.  She  is  always  in  such  a  hurry.  But  today  she  pauses,  stepping  back  and  swinging  her  arms  from  the  shoulders  in  that  awkward  way  she  has,  almost  clapping,  which  means  she  is  embarrassed.  He  remem-  bers:  itis  payday.  He  sets  down  his  fork  and  opens  the  drawer  beside  him,  where  he  finds  the  bank  envelope  his  colleagues  brought  him  earlier.  He  hands  it  to  her,  and  she  accepts  it  while  gazing  off  at  a  wall.  Not  until  he  has  picked  up  his  fork  againdoes  she  look  inside  the  envelope.  She  takes  a  dollar  from  the  sheaf  of  bills  and  holds  it  up.  For  the  prayer,  of  course:  a  dollar  a  week  for  the  prayer  in  the  Lucite  paper-  weight.  He  has  no  idea  how  close  she  is  to  her  goal.  He  watches  how  shepurses  her  lips  to  study  the  bill,  as  if  it  has  some-  how  turned  into  a  prayer  on  its  own.  Her  face  is  furrowed,  her  invisible  eye-  brows  crinkled.  She  asks  the  dollar,  &quot;Now,how  come  things  goes  so  wrong  for  me  and  so  right  for  the  wicked?&quot;  Then  she  turns,  as  she  always  does,  leaving  him  to  his  meagre  supper.  As  always  she  lays  a  hand  on  his  pillow  when  she  passes,  wishing  him  good  night-rough  skin  catching  on  the  linen,  smell  of  gray  water,  dress  so  worn  it  hardly  rustles  when  she  moves,  unanswered  questions  echoing  on  and  on  long  after  she  has  departed."