 b"MANY  times  when  I  was  a  child  we  had  driven  past  the  octagonal  stone  school  build-  ing  that  had  not  been  used  in  my  life-  timeor  in  my  parents'  lifetime.  It  sat  out  in  a  field,  by  then,  and  the  plow  went  past  the  door,  drawn  first  by  huge  white  horses,  then  by  tractors,  crossing  the  place  where  the  path  had  been,  and  the  one  where  the  privy  had  been,  and  crops  of  wheat  and  corn  grew  and  rattled  around  it  and  were  harvested.  Whenever  we  passed  the  building,  it  meant,  if  it  was  on  the  right,  that  we  were  going  to  visit  my  parents'  relatives-but  my  mother  had  none.  And  if  it  was  on  the  left,  that  we  were  coming  away  from  them  again.  Each  time,  if  we  had  been  gone  for  a  winter  or  so,  we  would  say  we  hoped  it  had  not  been  torn  down.  And  there  I  stood  inside  it  when  both  parents  were  gone.  It  was  larger  than  I  had  expected.  Long  rays  of  the  afternoon  sun  came  through  the  narrow  stone  windows,  It  was  later  in  the  afternoonthan  the  children  would  have  stayed.  There  were  shelves  around  the  walls,  with  nothing  on  them.  The  plaster  had  been  an  ivory  beige.  Corinthian  flutings,  painted  white,  around  the  windows.  As  I  stood  inside,  listening  to  the  dry  stalks  in  the  field,  everything  was  looking  past  me.  I  felt  a  tall,  heavy  wave  wash  over  me  and  go  on  to  break  somewhere  else,  and  then  I  was  there  without  it,  casting  a  shadow  in  the  beam  from  the  window,  looking  at  the  shelves,  thinking  of  the  alphabet,  and  through  it.  Perhaps  the  building's  proportions  made  it  seem  larger  inside  than  it  looked  from  outside.  With  the  years  it  had  sunk  into  the  ground.  The  wooden  floor  was  rotten  in  places.  Abroad,  in  Europe,  in  [REDACTED],  I  had  seen  an  octagonal  stone  dovecote,  somewhat  larger  across  and  much  higher.  As  high  as  a  castle  tower  or  a  church  belfry.  Wagon  spokes  of  raft-  ers.  The  walls  speckled  with  light,  but  most  of  the  shaft  in  shadow,  lined  with  thousands  of  square  stone  niches  built  into  the  masonry,  and  beside  each  opening  a  recess  to  the  left,  and  an-  other  to  the  right,  for  the  nests.  A  few  wild  pigeons  flapped  in  the  rafters  and  on  the  stone  window  grilles.  The  light  on  the  patches  of  plaster  behind  the  shelves  was  also  reflected  from  an  angledbay  of  the  central  reading  room  of  the  British  Museum,  some  years  earlier,  with  the  reference  dictionaries  of  language  after  language  arranged  alphabetically  around  it,  Coastline,  horizon,  zodiac.  Except  for  the  doors.  The  small  panes  that  remained  in-  tact  had  turned  pearly.  Like  the  tall  slender  octagonal  glasses,  from  which  some  had  once  expected  to  drink  aquavit,  on  that  ship  which  the  Swedes  had  launched  to  be  the  pride  of  the  new  navy  they  hoped  to  build.  Many  of  those  who  sailed  out  on  her  had  studied  all  through  their  childhoods,  in  uniform,  for  that  moment.  I  think  the  Swedish  rulers  were  hoping  to  challenge  the  English,  as  the  Span-  iards  had  done.  To  hold  the  Baltic,  first-some  such  idea.  They  were  years  building  that  ship,  but  not  a  toast  was  ever  drunk  on  board.  There  were  many  gun  decks,  many  rows  of  gun-  ports,  much  gilding,  since  the  vessel  would  be  a  flagship.  Many  statues  of  ancient  gods,  deities  from  languages  no  longer  spoken  by  children,  auspices  made  of  wood.  Golden  carvings  repre-  senting  sea  spirits  and  players  of  music  clambered  over  the  high  curling  stern,  which  was  black,  as  I  remember.  The  launching  was  aroyal  occasion.  Some-  one  would  have  been  to  4974616c79  and  seen  a  doge  marry  the  Adriatic,  and  heard  the  music.  What  animals  did  they  eat,  that  day,  from  the  points  of  their  knives?  Every  Swede  can  still  tell  you  that  they  christened  the  giant  ship  of  the  line  the  Wasa,  which  now  means  the  same  thing,  to  start  with,  im  every  language,  as  soon  as  it  is  known.  It  sailed  out  with  all  its  flags  fly-  ing,  its  band  playing  in  answer  to  the  band  on  shore,  everyone  in  full-  dress  uniform,  officers  and  men  lining  the  rails  or  aloft  in  the  rigging  or  man-  ning  the  guns  at  the  open  gunports,  and  looking  through  them  at  the  sea  rushing  past,  the  light  of  the  northern  day  reflected  in  the  spray.  Everyone  on  shore  watching,  waving,  shouting.  Puffs  from  the  cannons  on  shore,  then  the  sound  of  the  royal  salute  reaching  the  ship  many  seconds  later,  across  the  water.  The  vessel  rounding  the  head-  land  under  full  sail,  in  the  brisk  wind,  and  all  its  guns  answering  the  salute.  And  then,  so  suddenly  that  the  watch-  ers  on  shore  rubbed  their  eyes,  to  which  tears  had  not  yet  arrived,  the  great  ship  sinking  with  all  hands.  Perhaps  the  sea  flooded  the  open  gunports.  Nobody  knows  forcertain  how  it  happened.  After  three  centuries,  light  returned  to  the  wreck,  swimming  down  to  it  with  air  hoses,  peering  in.  Everything  was  preserved  by  the  water  there,  and  by  the  mud,  the  darkness,  and  the  fact  that  the  objects  were  new.  It  was  said  that  everything  was  just  as  it  had  been-as  though  anyone  knew.  The  crowns  of  [REDACTED]  had  changed  heads  many  times.  'The  schoolhouse  was  already  standing  empty.  A  proposition  was  put  forward  to  raise  the  wreck  intact  from  the  sea  bottom,  and  the  king  approved  and  subscribed  royal  funds  for  the  enter-  prise.  It  took  years  to  lacea  harness  around  the  vessel  in  the  mud  and  hoist  it,  with  pneumatic  equipment,  inch  by  inch  toward  ultramodern  sections  of  floating  drydock,  on  the  surface.  There  was  a  royal  celebration  on  the  day  when  the  ship  first  broke  the  surface  of  the  water  from  below.  Meanwhile,  samples  had  been  brought  up  and  examined  in  labora-  tories.  A  method  of  preserving  them  from  the  air  of  our  age  had  been  de-  vised.  It  included,  for  many  of  the  materials,a  chemical  treatment  to  em-  balm  the  tissues  not  only  of  wood  but  of  fabrics:  clothing-much  of  it  never  worn-sails,  rigging,  wet  flags.  And  it  assumed  the  construction  of  a  hangar:  a  vast  hall  built  to  house-as  eventu-  ally  it  did-the  whole  of  the  Wasa,  indoors,  in  a  controlled,  surprisingly  warm  temperature,  cradled  in  a  deli-  cate  scaffoldwork  of  beams,  with  jets  of  warm  seawater  playing  over  it  con-  tinuously  to  keep  its  moisture  at  a  measured  level,  black  hoses  winding  through  it,  lights  inside  the  hull  show-  ing  the  dripping  interiors,  while  a  swirling  cloud  of  steam  rises  constantly  around  it  toward  the  translucent  ceil-  ing,  the  new  surface.  Replicas  of  the  original  misted  octagonal  glasses  from  the  ship  are  sold  at  the  door,  packed  for  travelling,  A  raised  decorative  band  runs  around  the  nacreous  sides,  like  scars  of  shelves.  I  could  check  the  facts,  but  this  is  something  I  remem-  ber.    "