 b"THE  servants'  hall  at  Schloss  Dreiviertelstein-an  Elfin  court  in  Styria--was  a  Gothic  apart-  ment  with  an  oriel  window  overlook-  ing  the  poultry  yard.  At  the  head  of  the  long  table  was  a  discarded  throne,  and  there  sat  Ludla,  the  cook.  In  order  of  hierarchy,  the  throne  should  have  been  the  housekeeper's,  but  Ludla's  preeminence  was  indisputable,  so  the  housekeeper  sat  at  the  other  end  of  the  table  in  a  handsome  chair  of  Spanish  workmanship.  At  Ludla's  right  hand  sat  Ernolf,  the  butler;  at  her  left,  the  cellarer,  Gunf.  The  housekeeper  was  supported  by  the  chief  lady's  maid  and  the  head  huntsman.  Valets,  footmen,  grooms,  housemaids,  kitchen  maids,  laundresses,  etc.,  sat  in  ordered  ranks  on  either  side.  All  these  were  working  fairies,  and  their  sleeping  accommodation  was  poky.  It  was  compensated  for  by  their  victuals.  Their  food  was  identical  with  the  food  served  at  the  Queen's  table-  only  hotter.  Count  Horn,  the  Royal  Favorite,  sometimes  paused  at  the  stair-  head  and  sniffed  wistfully.  When  Horn  was  young  he  was  the  soul  of  poetry  and  often  forgot  to  eat.  Many  years  had  passed  over  him  since.  He  retained  his  post  (Queen  Aigle  was  a  tradition-  alist),  but  the  poetry  had  waned  to  re-  gretfulness  and  greed.  Ludla's  cooking  was  renowned  throughout  Elfindom.  Dreiviertelstein  was  an  unimportant  [REDACTED],  but  to  go  on  an  embassy  to  Dreiviertelstein  was  something  to  be  contested  for,  boasted  of,  and  ardently  remembered.  No-  where  else  was  stuffed  goose  such  a  ful-  filling  experience,  eel  soup  so  exhilarat-  ing,  haunches  of  venison  of  such  a  texture,  substan-  tial  yet  yielding,  game  pies  so  autumnally  fragrant,  dumplings  in  such  variety  of  modest  perfection,  ap-  ple  strudel  so  beguiling;  though  whether  Ludla's  brandied  plums  in  marzi-  pan  jackets  did  or  did  not  surpass  her  apple  strudel  was  an  epicurean  debate.  Ambassadors  timed  their  visits  to  co-  incide  with  the  Egyptian  Days,  when  Elfins  abstain  from  love  and  beans.  Egyptian  Days  at  Dreiviertelstein  were  solemnized  by  Ludla's  crawfish  souffl\xc3\xa9.  The  preparation  for  this  fleeting  deli-  cacy  began  at  dawn,  when  the  craw-  fish  were  netted  from  the  brook  by  teams  of  hardy  scullions.  They  were  plunged  into  precisely  boiling  water,  and  as  they  boiled,  the  Schloss  cats  set  up  an  impassioned,  visionary  mewing.  The  flesh,  freed  from  every  fragment  m  of  shell,  was  gently,  methodically  pounded  in  marble  mortars  to  a  smooth  paste  by  kitchen  maids;  cream  skimmed  from  the  wide  bowls  of  overnight  milk  was  added,  whileother  kitchen  maids  whipped  the  whites  of  countless  eggs.  When  all  this  was  done  to  Ludla's  sat-  isfaction,  and  the  ovens  stoked  to  a  steady  heat,  she  did  the  flavoring.  The  flavoring  was  her  secret.  While  she  was  at  it,  everyone  was  banished  from  the  kitchen,  and  aholy  silence  settled  on  court  life.  It  was  of  acrawfish  souffl\xc3\xa9  that  Count  Wolf  committed  his  only  metaphor.  &quot;It  is  like  eating  a  cloud,&quot;  he  said.  His  cousin  Count  Brock,  who  had  a  more  searching  mind,  replied,  &quot;But,  unlike  a  cloud,  it  nourishes.&quot;  The  only  person  at  Dreiviertelstein  unmoved  by  Ludla's  cooking  was  Queen  Aigle.  For  her,  meals  recurred  like  sunrise  and  sunset.  If  a  sauce  had  been  curdled,  a  dumpling  petrified,  she  would  have  acknowledged  its  cometlike  apparition  without  feeling  personally  involved.  Aigle  was  a  high  Romantic.  She  saw  life  as  an  occasion  for  achieving  the  im-  probable,  for  aiming  at  the  unseen,  and  she  enforced  this  frame  of  mind  on  others.  For  the  enforcing,  she  relied  on  quests.  She  could  not  go  questing  her-  self,  being  a  Queen,  or  send  her  ladies  on  them,  questing  being  unsuitable  for  ladies;  and  the  working  fairies  already  had  their  duties  to  carry  out.  But  for  the  male  half  of  her  court  she  invented  one  quest  after  another.  The  quests  necessarily  complied  with  the  seasons:  in  the  winter  months  they  were  domes-  ticated,  their  objects  ranging  from  a  lost  thimble  or  the  Ab-  solute  to  a  B  flat  in  alt  With  the  spring,  they  soared.  There  was  the  Quest  for  the  White  Gen-  tian,  when  the  mountain  slopes  were  speckled  with  stooping  questers.  'There  was  the  Quest  forthe  Toad  in  a  Stone,  when  the  mountain  peaks  rang  with  the  tap-tap  of  geologi-  cal  hammers  and  the  curses  of  those  whose  hammers  fell  awry.  There  was  the  Quest  for  the  Purple  Carp,  the  Chamois  Shod  in  Silver,  the  Ring  Hung  on  the  Topmost  Bough,  the  Crested  Hazel  Hen.  For  several  sum-  mers  there  had  been  a  Quest  of  the  Dragon,  but  it  was  abandoned,  not  so  much  because  dragons  were  out-of-  date  as  on  account  of  so  many  questers  being  lost  in  caverns,  some  never  to  be  found  again.  When  Aigle's  invention  faltered,  there  was  always  the  Quest  of  --\xc2\xa5zee  the  Four-Leafed  Clover  to  fall  back  on.  There  was  also  the  twice-yearly  competition  for  the  First  and  the  Last  Rose  of  Summer.  In  the  servants'  hall  opinions  dif-  fered  about  the  quests.  The  valets  dis-  approved  of  them  because  of  the  clothes  to  be  brushed  and  the  boots  polished,  the  housemaids  because  of  the  dirt  tracked  indoors.  The  kitchen  fairies  were  sympathetic,  and  laid  bets.  Ludla  revolved  a  recipe  for  the  Purple  Carp,  whose  coloring  she  proposed  to  rein-  force  with  beetroot.  Meanwhile  she  put  up  picnic  lunches.  The  only  valet  who  had  no  grounds  for  complaint  was  Prince  Ingobaldo's.  Ingobaldo  was  the  Royal  Consort,  and  felt  it  his  duty  to  stay  indoors  to  pro-  tect  Aigle  if  the  castle  were  struck  by  lightning.  (Privately  he  wished  it  might  be;  he  came  from  a  Cisalpine  King-  dom,  and  preferred  a  calmer  style  of  architecture.)  Marriage  had  brought  him  a  severe  disappointment.  Pacing  the  distances  and  then  measuring  them  with  a  wheel,  he  found  that  Dreivier-  telstein  was  situated  at  five-eighths  of  the  ascent  from  the  valley  to  the  moun-  tain  summit.  Anxious  not  to  condemn  too  hastily,  he  sought  for  astone  at  the  three-quarters  mark.  There  wasn't  one.  But  he  had  Ludla's  cooking,  perfec-  tion  in  an  imperfect  world;  he  had  a  quest  of  his  own,  an  indoor  quest  for  a  sublime  hour  when  his  collection  of  twenty  striking  clocks  (five  of  them  musical)  would  strike  the  hour  simul-  taneously  and  the  favorite  melodies  of  Thuringia,  Bohemia,  the  Veneto,  [REDACTED],  and  Capri  mingle  as  one;  and  he  enjoyed  naming  cats.  There  was  no  child  of  the  marriage.  During  the  long  summer  hours  when  the  questers  were  out,  the  elder  Court  Ladies  slept,  played  cards,  or  wrote  their  memoirs;  the  young  ones  gathered  sprigs  of  rosemary  and  bay,  shook  the  insects  out  of  them,  and  wove  the  daily  garland  with  which  Queen  Aigle  might  crown  whoever  had  achieved  the  current  quest.  The  garland  was  seldom  awarded.  Every  now  and  then,  someone  would  find  a  four-leafed  clover;  the  First  and  the  Last  Rose  were  reliable  events.  But  though  the  White  Gentian  had  been  achieved  and  the  garland  bestowed,  a  cloud  hung  over  the  proceedings.  The  gentian  was  pallid,  rather  than  white,  and  lacked  the  usual  gentian  stamina.  There  was  a  suspicion,  though  no  one  voiced  it  publicly,  that  its  finder  had  blanched  it  artificially-under  an  in-  verted  flowerpot,  perhaps.  The  rose-  maries  and  the  bay  trees  grew  in  tubs  along  the  South  Terrace,  and  by  the  time  they  were  brought  in  to  winter  in  " b"the  conservatory,  they  looked  sadly  molted,  as  they  were  also  requisitioned  by  Ludla-the  rosemary  for  roast  pork,  the  bay  leaves  for  game  pies  and  custards.  Like  her  Queen,  Ludla  was  a  traditionalist.  A  boar's  head  would  have  had  no  breath  of  the  wild  for  her  without  a  lemon  between  its  jaws  and  celery  whiskers.  Another  summer  was  closing,  the  last  of  its  Last  Roses  had  been  found,  the  last  garland  of  the  season  given,  and  Aigle  was  inscribing  this  event  in  the  Chronicle  of  Dreiviertelstein.  The  quality  of  the  ink  varied  from  time  to  time,  but  otherwise  there  was  not  much  variation  in  the  entries.  A  death,  the  first  snowfall,  a  birth,  an  avalanche,  an  embassy  ...  these  were  things  ex-  pected.  Everything  in  nature  submits  to  becoming  something  to  be  expected.  The  hopes  fastened  on  a  new  quest  submit  to  the  law  of  averages  and  fade.  A  stranger  appears  in  an  embassy,  a  travelling  clockmaker  stumbles  through  the  snow  and  is  sheltered  for  the  night;  they  come  again,  and  are  no  longer  strangers.  Schloss  Dreiviertelstein  was  out  of  the  way  of  interesting  arrivals.  The  day  of  Wandering  Minstrels,  Tired  Pilgrims,  was  over.  In  any  case,  these  would  probably  be  mortals,  and  as  such  irrelevant  to  a  factual  Elfin  chronicle.  Even  so,  at  that  moment  an  inter-  esting  arrival,  a  seedy-looking  young  fairy,  was  circling  over  the  castle  and  sniffing  the  air  attentively.  His  luck  never  failed  him:  it  was  a  Michaelmas  goose!  He  flew  to  a  dis-  tance,  alighted,  closed  his  wings,  and  began  to  walk  genteelly  up  the  track.  The  plan  of  campaign  formed  in  his  mind.  He  would  be  mysterious,  even  a  trifle  standoffish.  He  would  not  fall  in  love,  or  scratch  himself,  or  talk  with  his  mouth  full.  If  the  hospitality  lived  up  to  the  promise  of  that  smell,  he  would  presently  disclose  that  he  had  long  known  of  thequests  (which  they  had  laughed  about  at  the  inn).  He  would  hardly  dare  to  ask  if  he,  too  .  .  .  By  the  time  he  reached  the  castle,  the  plan  was  irreproachable.  By  the  time  he  was  within  it,  it  was  tossed  away.  Plans  are  an  encumbrance.  One  does  much  bet-  ter  when  prompted  by  truth  and  the  moment.  HAT  night  Queen  Aigle  re-  opened  the  Chronicle  and  wrote  the  date,  and  beneath  it:  Toemerind,  Political  Exile  from  the  [REDACTED]  of  Tishk  in  the  Ural  M  ountains.  What  charmed  everyone  was  his  frankness.  Exile  is  a  discreditable  term.  Aigle  hadnever  imagined  herself  welcoming  an  exile;  a  political  exile  would  pre-  sumably  be  someone  even  more  skulk-  ing  and  hangdog  than  the  ordinary  kind.  Candor  irradiated  Tamarind's  account  of  the  situation  at  Tishk:  the  young  Queen's  power  usurped  by  a  militaristic  uncle,  the  rising  savagely  put  down,  its  leaders  executed,  their  supporters  exiled  to  beyond  the  Volga.  No  doubt  such  political  rowdiness  was  " b"typical  of  a  [REDACTED]  in  the  [REDACTED].  It  was  a  greater  effort  of  the  imagina-  tion-few  made  it-to  conceive  the  remoteness  of  Tishk.  How  long  had  the  journey  taken?  How  had  he  trav-  elled?  For  a  moment,  he  hesitated.  &quot;Necessity  knows  no  law.  I  must  ad-  mit  it.  From  time  to  time,  I  flew.&quot;  And  he  described  how  he  had  flown  over  the  Volga,  so  wide  a  river  that  he  could  not  see  the  further  bank.  There,  on  the  further  bank,  he  lay  exhausted,  kissing  the  ground  where  every  step  would  bring  him  nearer  to  Western  civilization;  and  immediately  had  been  set  on  by  ignorant  monks,  who  de-  nounced  him  as  a  demon  and  handed  him  over  to  the  police,  who  proposed  to  hang  him  as  a  spy.  But  one  of  them  was  venal  and  humane,  and  let  him  es-  cape.  &quot;One  has  only  to  be  in  adversity,&quot;  Tamarind  exclaimed,  gazing  round  on  the  table  with  his  bright,  rather  bulg-  ing  eyes,  &quot;to  learn  the  good-heartedness  of  the  poor  and  oppressed.&quot;  Aigle  listened  with  her  hands  clenched  in  her  lap  and  her  mouth  open.  The  clocks  and  the  favorite  airs  had  told  midnight  before  anyone  thought  of  going  to  bed.  Tamarind's  frankness  not  only  charmed  his  listeners;  it  infected  them.  They  felt  a  compulsion  to  unbosom  themselves  to  this  unguaranteed  exile  from  a  [REDACTED]  no  one  had  heard  of.  They  pursued  him  into  corners  and  told  him  of  doubts  suppressed,  smoth-  ered  dissatisfactions,  hopes  strangled  at  birth,  the  true  story-in  time,  several  true  stories-of  the  White  Gentian;  other  true  stories  of  machinations,  fa-  voritism,  and  neglected  sunstroke;  of  armorial  bearings  and  family  ghosts;  of  venerated  scandals  and  little  adjust-  ments  that  would  make  the  whole  dif-  ference.  'The  elder  ladies  read  him  their  memoirs.  Count  Horn  resurrected  his  juvenilia  and  recited  them.Ingo-  baldo  consulted  him  about  the  clocks.  When  Tamarind  could  be  persuaded  to  leave  off  talking  himself,  he  was  a  sympathetic  listener  and  an  adept  ques-  tioner.  At  the  end  of  a  week  he  was  in  an  unsurpassed  position  to  make  mis-  chief.  But  he  had  higher  aims.  Aigle,  with  her  quests  taken  out  of  some  worm-eaten  tapestry,  Aigle,  stiff  as  her  stays,  a  dedicated  offering  to  old  age,  who  listened,  biting  her  lip  like  a  vir-  gin,  Aigle,  that  withered  child,  had  not  unbosomed  herself  of  ashred  of  con-  fidence.  His  talent  for  understanding,  for  fellow-feeling,  for  reciprocation  was  wasted  on  her.  It  was  mortify-  ing.  He  could  not  make  it  out.  Mean-  while,  he  played  with  real  children-  for  there  were  children  at  Dreiviertel-  stein,  though  they  seemed  out  of  place  there.  They  fastened  on  him  as  though  he  were  food  for  the  starving-they  shouted,  buffooned,  rolled  on  the  ground.  He  told  them  about  good  bears  and  bad  bears,  and  of  Baba  Jaga  the  witch,  who  was,  he  said,  his  aunt.  He  also  led  them  on  a  raid  into  the  kitchen,  where  they  stuffed  themselves  with  candied  violets  and  licked  their  scorched  fingers.  Ludla  officially  disapproved,  but  if  he  had  come  without  those  dis-  tracting  children  she  would  have  told  him  any  secret  he  chose  to  ask,  even  the  secret  of  the  crawfish  souffle.  All  this  was  hard  to  account  for.  He  was  ungainly  and  pasty-faced,  his  voice  was  harsh,  he  knocked  things  over,  he  had  thick  lips,  his  ears  stuck  out  like  an  animal's;  when  he  arrived  his  clothes  were  in  tatters  and  he  looked  like  a  tramp.  Ingobaldo  supplied  him  with  new  clothes  and  an  accomplished  valet,  and  the  result  of  this  kindness  was  that  he  looked  like  a  tramp  who  had  pil-  laged  a  nobleman.  Yet  everyone  liked  him;  even  the  working  fairies  liked  him,  with  reservations.  He  was  lively,  he  was  enlivening;  he  was  happy,  and  his  happiness  diffused  like  a  scented  oil.  Every  day  confirmed  Tamarind's  be-  lief  in  the  good-heartedness  of  the  poor  and  oppressed-for  such  he  judged  the  courtiers  of  Dreiviertelstein  to  be.  And  still  their  Queen  eluded  him.  She  did  not  avoid  him;  she  did  not  make  even  that  acknowledgement  of  his  zeal  to  release  her  deeper  feelings.  It  was  her  morning  custom  to  take  a  brisk  walk  in  the  tiltyard.  As  usual,  she  was  walking  alone;  as  usual,  he  joined  her;  as  usual,  she  hoped  he  hadhad  a  good  night.  The  turf  was  lightly  crisped  with  overnight  frost.  The  air  was  scentless.  The  season's  new-fallen  snow  glittered  on  the  mountain  peak.  She  stopped  and  looked  at  it.  &quot;How  won-  derful  it  must  be,  up  there,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;How  remote!  How  pure!&quot;  Tamarind's  luck  stood  at  his  elbow.  &quot;Then  let  us  fly  there-this  very  minute.&quot;  &quot;Fly? Fly?  But  I  have  never   flown.&quot;  Was  the  poor  lady  malformed,  or  merely  a  slave  to  convention?  He  be-  gan  to  persuade.  Flying  was  a  delight,  ful  sensation,  the  easiest  thing  in  the  world,  the  most  natural.  Itlifted  one  into  an  incomparable  sense  of  freedom.  There  one  is,  with  the  world  below  one-a  new  world,  seen  from  above.  Today  was  an  ideal  day  to  take  wing;  the  conditions  could  not  be  better.  As  he  spoke,  she  unclasped  her  mantle  and  let  it  slip  to  the  ground.  There  were  her  wings.  He  had  ex-  pected  them  to  be  puny;  they  were  well  " b"developed,  dove-colored,  and  shone.  &quot;What  beautiful  wings!&quot;  he  ex-  claimed.  &quot;And  waiting  all  these  years  to  be  spread.&quot;  'The  question  was:  Would  they  spread,  or  had  they  grown  rigid  in  their  folds?  She  shrugged.  They  quivered,  unfolded  smoothly,  closed  again,  not  so  compactly.  &quot;And  so  lustrous,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;My  bowerwomen  oil  them  once  a  week,  of  course.&quot;  It  was  her  first  confidence.  This  in-  deed  was  Western  civilization;  no  one  at  Tishk  oiled  his  wings.  Tamarind  felt  himself  moving  in  a  new  world  and  perfectly  at  ease  in  it.  He  put  his  arm  round  Aigle's  waist.  &quot;Allow  me  to  support  you  for  the  first  ascent.  Trust  yourself  to  me.  Now!&quot;  They  rose  in  the  air.  She  was  heavier  than  he  expected-women  always  are-and  passive.  He  fixed  his  gaze  on  the  mountain  peak,  tightened  his  grasp,  and  flew  steadily.  He  felt  an  erratic  counter-rhythm,  her  wing  struck  him,  she  wrenched  herself  free,  lurched  downward,  recovered,  and  flew  with  the  sudden  brilliance  of  a  beginner,  He  had  to  fly  hard  to  catch  up  with  her  and  set  her  on  course  again.  She  had  no  sense  of  direction;  twice  she  collided  with  him.  He  seized  her  hand.  Unless  he  could  control  her  it  would  be  im-  possible  to  make  a  safe  landing-and  the  peak  was  now  so  near  that  he  could  feel  its  chill  on  his  face.  She  jerked  his  hand  away,  flew  vehemently  ahead,  plunged  downward,  too  late  and  much  too  fast.  She'll  dash  herself  to  pieces  on  the  rock  face,  he  thought,  and  shouted  to  her  to  slacken  speed  and  veer  to  one  side.  Without  slackening  speed  she  made  a  violent  turn,  lost  the  rhythm  of  her  flight,  tumbled  like  ashot  bird,  just  missed  the  rock,  and  landed  head  fore-  most  in  a  lap  of  snow.  A  flurry  of  snow  hidher.  By  the  time  he  reached  her  she  had  righted  herself  and  was  sitting  up,  with  blood  dripping  from  her  nose.  No  Elfin  likes  the  sight  or  smell  of  blood;  life  at  Tishk  had  not  reconciled  Tamarind  to  its  exhibition.  He  gave  her  his  handker-  chief  and  occupied  himself  with  patting  her  back  and  examining  her  wings.  One  of  them  was  slightly  bent,  and  she  winced  as  he  touched  it,  He  apologized  politely  and  gloomily.  It  was  a  situation  where  politeness  had  a  shallow  ring.  Politeness  would  not  quench  Aigle's  nosebleeding,  or  ward  off  the  cold  which  was  creeping  into  him  from  the  snow,  or  ease  the  journey  back  (though  it  would  almost  certainly  oblige  him  to  carryher),  or  overcome  the  awkwardness  of  their  return-for  it  was  bound  to  be  awk-  ward,  with  a  great  many  questions  be-  ing  asked  and  no  attention  paid  to  the  answers,  The  fault  lay  in  the  un-  naturalness  of  a  society  where  the  priv-  ileged  classes  debar  themselves  from  their  birthright  of  flying  in  order  to  as-  sert  a  hereditary  claim  to  go  on  foot,  as  though  they  were  mortals  Mortals,  meanwhile,  long,  like  pigs  in  the  prov-  erb,  for  wings.  It  is  not  enough  for  them  to  admit  the  superiority  of  the  Elfin  race;  they  invent  a  flying  species  of  mortal,  and  with  the  exaggeration  of  ignorance  bestow  wings  in  triplicate;  or,  going  to  the  other  extreme,  imagine  beings  small  enough  to  hide  under  an  oak  leaf,  when  fairies  are,  in  point  of  fact,  about  four-fifths  of  ordinary  hu-  man  stature.  But  flying,  which  is  the  dream  and  envy  of  humankind,  is  in  Elfindom  the  badge  of  servitude.  Aigle,  earthbound  at  the  summit  of  her  social  pyramid,  sat  beside  him  bleeding  at  the  nose  because  she  had  never  flown  be-  fore,  whereas  if  he  had  invited  one  of  the  working  fairies-that  fat  old  cook, for  instance,  Ludla  or  some  such  name-she  would  have  flown  like  a  bird,  alighted  like  a  feather.  The  un-  naturalness  of  society  was  such  a  rich  theme  for  meditation  that  he  was  startled  when  Aigle  said  that  her  nose  had  left  off  bleeding  and  they  should  think  about  getting  back.  He  helped  her  to  her  feet,  he  helped  her  into  the  air.  From  then  on,  she  flew  unaided.  As  they  neared  the  castle  she  said  they  must  separate.  If  her  absence  had  been  noticed,  she  would  explain  she  had  been  looking  for  her  mantle,  which  had  somehow  fallen  off  without  her  know-  ing  it.  He,  too,  had  better  have  some  excuse  in  readiness,  She  spoke  coldly,  and  he  could  not  help  feeling  snubbed.  It  was  unfortunate  she  had  got  so  over-  excited;  but  he  had  given  her  a  new  experience,  and  should  have  received  a  word  of  thanks.  Within  an  hour  of  their  return  much  of  what  had  happened-and  more  that  had  not  happened-was  known  in  the    " b"servants'  quarters,  where  the  working  fairies  with  one  accord  resumed  their  right  and  proper  xenophobia.  'These  Russians  are  all  the  same,  wherever  they  come  from.  Tamarind  himself  had  said  his  aunt  was  a  witch.  It  was  the  old  story-warm  a  serpent  and  he'll  sting.  Given  new  clothes,  treated  like  a  prince,  allowed  to  wind  the  clocks  even-and  all  the  time  casting  a  spell  over  Her  Majesty.  He  wasn't  a  witch's  nephew  for  nothing.  ...  No,  no!  said  others-she  was  not  be-  witched!  When  he  grabbed  her  she  fought  and  struggled  for  a  good  half  hour;  that  was  when  her  mantle  fell  off-torn  off,  more  likely.  But  all  to  no  purpose,  poor  lady!  Off  he  flew  with  her  like  an  eagle  with  a  lamb.  And  then  to  land  his  great  fist  on  Her  Majesty's  nose-there's  gratitude  for  you!  No  wonder  she  had  a  headache  andhad  to  lie  down.  Ludla  said  she  wished  she  could  get  after  him  with  her  rolling  pin.  &quot;It's  a  pity  you  can't  poison  him  with  your  pie,&quot;  said  Ernolf,  the  butler.  &quot;I'd  see  to  it  he  got  the  right  helping.&quot;  For  the  main  dish  that  evening  was  to  be  Ludla's  Hunters'  Pie-a  stand-  ing  pie  like  a  fortress.  Already  she  was  stripping  the  flesh  off  the  bones,  break-  ing  the  carcasses  and  putting  them  in  the  great  stewpan,  where  they  would  simmer  down  to  a  compounded  broth  of  capercaillie,  grouse,  pheasant,  par-  tridge,  woodcock,  and  hazel  hens.  The  flesh  lay  on  different  platters,  accord-  ing  to  the  time  required  for  par-cook-  ing  before  it  was  enclosed  in  the  for-  tress  and  the  fortress  went  into  the  oven.  A  Hunters'  Pie  was  a  day's  work,  and  the  kitchen  maids  had  been  up  since  dawn,  plucking  and  gutting.  Pimentos,  chanterelle  mushrooms,  gar-  lic,  juniper  berries,  segments  of  orange,  anchovy  fillets,  dried  and  fresh  herbs,  salami  that  holds  the  mixture  together,  the  grated  chocolate  that  brings  it  to  life  were  assembled;  the  flour  had  been  sifted,  the  shortening  flavored,  re-  duced,  and  clarified.  As  the  plan  of  battle  lies  in  thegeneral's  brain,  when  to  move  the  left  wing,  when  to  explode  the  mine,  when  to  bring  up  the  cavalry,  so  the  plan  of  a  Hunters'  Pie  and  the  obstacles  chance  might  put  in  its  way-  a  change  in  the  wind  upsetting  the  oven,  an  insufficiency  of  basil,  the  cat  filching  the  anchovies-had  occupied  Ludla's  mind  since  daybreak;  and  when  she  wished  she  could  get  at  Tamarind  with  her  rolling  pin  it  was  not  so  much  the  assault  on  the  Queen  she  resented  as  the  threat  to  the  con-  centration  demanded  by  the  pie.  However,  it  was  a  splendid  example  of  her  skill  and,  preceded  by  a  white soup  and  grilled  smelts,  it  entered  the  dining  room  like  a  conqueror.  Only  Aigle  was  unmoved.  Her  face  was  plastered  with  white  lead,  she  wore  her  diamonds,  and  exuded  a  strong  smell  of  Four  Thieves  vinegar.  The  animation  roused  by  the  pie's  advent  wasn't  up  to  the  usual  mark;  it  flick-  ered,  and  died  out.  An  uneasy  glum-  ness  settled  on  the  company.  Even  Tamarind  was  silent.  He  was  hungry  and  the  pie  was  absorbing.  Count  Horn  was  heard  observing  to  Ingobaldo  that  he  felt  like  sending  a  message  of  con-  gratulation  to  the  kitchen.  &quot;Sodo  I,  so  do  I,&quot;  exclaimed  Tamarind.  &quot;Let  us  send  a  fraternal  greeting,  an  acknowl-  edgement  of  our  indebtedness.  Food  is  an  element  in  the  interdependence  of  Elfins.  Without  cooks,  we  should  be  re-duced  to  cannib-&quot;  His  voice  strangled  in  a  gasp.  He  had  swallowed  too  rapid-  ly,  something  had  stuck  in  his  gullet,  he  had  choked.  Attention  was  politely  averted.  Ernolf  came  up  unobtrusively  with  a  napkin.  Tamarind  stiffened,  glared,  flapped  his  hands;  his  neighbors  thumped  his  back.  There  was  a  pierc-  ing  scream.  Ernolf  and  the  thumpers  were  thrust  aside  by  Queen  Aigle,  who  seized  one  of  Tamarind's  flapping  hands,  clasped  it  to  her  breast,  and  im-  plored  him  to  speak.  &quot;Say  you're  not  dying.  I  can't  bear  it  if  you  die.  You're  all  I  have,  you're  the  light  of  my  eyes,  I  can't  exist  without  you.  Tamarind,  Tamarind,  speak  to  me!&quot;  Tamarind  continued  to  choke.  Tears  ran  down  his  cheeks.  Aigle's  Lady  in  Waiting,  looking  sternly  in  the  opposite  direction,  pushed  a  bottle  of  strong  smelling  salts  between  them.  Tamarind  made  a  violent  effort,  swal-  lowed  convulsively,  and  said  in  a  weak  voice,  &quot;I  swallowed  a  bone.&quot;  He  made  a  better  recovery  than  Aigle,  who  fell  into  hysterics  and  had  to  be  carried  away.  The  Hunters  Pic  was  removed.  They  atethe  rest  of  the  meal  without  knowing  what  they  ate.  " b"An  injury  to  her  nose  had  given  the  Queen  a  concussion;  her  mind  was  temporarily  unhinged.  'That  was  the  Court  Physician's  verdict,  and  everyone  was  relieved  to  hear  it.  The  next  morning,  a  footman  was  sent  to  summon  the  housekeeper  to  the  Queen's  chamber.  The  housekeeper  obeyed  and  was  told  to  fetch  the  cook.  Aigle  was  sitting  up  in  a  wide  bed,  propped  by  a  great  many  pillows.  Lud-  la  had  only  seen  her  at  a  distance  be-  fore.  With  her  first  glance,  she  knew  that  this  was  how  a  Queen  in  her  bed  should  look.  &quot;Are  you  the  cook?&quot;  asked  Aigle.  &quot;Yes,  Majesty,&quot;  said  Ludlaand  curtsied  again.  &quot;Last  night  there  was  a  bone  in  the  pie.  I  cannot  have  carelessness.  You  are  dismissed.&quot;  As  Ludla  did  not  move,  Aigle  ges-  tured  to  the  housekeeper  to  take  her  away.  It  was  a  long  way  from  the  bed- side  to  the  door.  In  the  doorway  Ludla  stopped.  &quot;Majesty.&quot;  &quot;Shush,&quot;  whispered  the  housekeep-  er,  who  in  her  heart  was  sorry  forthe  old  servant.  &quot;Shush.  You'll  only  waste  your  breath.&quot;  &quot;Majesty.  I  have  cooked  for  you  and  your  Court  and  your  household  for  more  years  than  I  can  tell.  Itwill  be  more  years  than  I  can  tell  before  you  have  another  such  cook.  Dreiviertel-  stein  will  be  a  poor  place  without  me-  a  poor,  dwindled,  ill-fed,  out-of-the-  way  castle,  with  visitors  as  glad  to  leave  it  as  fleas  leaving  a  killed  rabbit  that  has  grown  cold.&quot;  She  curtsied  again,  with  her  dis-  graced  head  held  high,  and  walked  out,  hauling  the  housekeeper  after  her.  In  the  kitchen  a  ham  was  gently  boiling,  the  bread  dough  was  rising  un-  der  a  cloth,  a  chopping  knife  lay  among  the  vegetables  she  had  been  preparing for  a  julienne  soup.  She  took  off  her  apron  and  sat  with  folded  hands  while  her  belongings  were  packed  by  the  head  kitchen  maid.  With  a  groom  to  carry  them,  she  took  wing  for  her  birthplace  in  the  forest.  Her  parents  were  dead,  but  her  brother  still  lived  on  there,  a  forester  and  a  notorious  poacher.  The  ham  was  boiled  to  rags  before  anyone  remembered  to  dish  it  up.  The  dumplings  which  accompanied  it  moved  Count  Wolf  to  another  of  his  skyey  metaphors:  he  said  they  were  like  thun-  derbolts.  Ernolf  the  butler  whispered  to  Ingobaldo  that  Ludla  had  gone  to  visit  her  brother.  He  had  not  the  cour-  age  to  admit  the  truth.  Ingobaldo  was  not  one  of  those  chivalrous  persons  who  strangle  their  wives  and  stab  their  rivals;  when  he  inquired  after  Tamarind's  throat  he  had  no  aerri\xc3\xa9re-pens\xc3\xa9e  of  cutting  it.  He  had  sustained  another  disappoint-  " b"ment.  For  some  time,  he  had  thought  that  Aigle  would  be  the  better  for  a  cicisbeo  and  considered  importing  one  from  4974616c79.  When  Tamarind  ar-  rived-dauntless,  romantic,  unfortu-  nate  through  no  fault  of  his  own,  a  high-minded  exile  from  an  unknown  [REDACTED],  everything  that  would  ap-  peal  to  Aigle-he  felt  that  the  ideal  cicisbeo  had  been  vouchsafed;  or  rath-  er,  the  raw  material  forthe  ideal  ci-  cisbeo,  since  Tamarind  was  untutored  in  a  cicisbeo's  accomplishments.  But  he  was  willing,poetical  in  his  sentiments,  anxious  to  please;  all  that  was  neces-  sary  was  that  he  should  ripen.  Unfor-  tunately,  the  process  of  ripening  had  got  out  of  hand.  Aigle  had  ripened  too  soon.  Apparently  she  was  too  highly  strung  to  be  soothed  by  a  novice  cicisbeo.  Unsoothed,  she  would  feel  slighted,  and  the  consequences  could  be  very  painful  for  Tamarind.  For  his  own  sake,  he  must  be  got  rid  of;  and  he,  Ingobaldo,  must  assert  himself  and  deal  the  blow.  As  Royal  Consort,  it  was  his  duty.  He  wished  it  wasn't.  Tamarind  flew  the  Volga  far  too  often,  and  the  striking  train  of  the  Favorite  Air  from  Thuringia  had  been  out  of  order  ever  since  he  oiled  and  adjusted   it,  but  he  came  from  an  outer  world  and  Ingobaldo  would  miss  him.  He  allowed  a  few  meals  to  elapse  before  regretting  that  Tamarind  could  no  longer  be  detained  from  his  project  of  touring  Western  Europe.  After  a  start  of  surprise,  Tamarind  agreed  that  he  could  not  be  detained-and  seemed  to  welcome  the  thought.  His  plans  were  indefinite.  He  might  fly  the  Channel  and  visit  England.  Wherever  he  went,  he  could  be  sure  ofthe  good-  heartedness  of  the  poor  and  oppressed.  He  departed  to  a  bom-aller  of  can-  non,  with  a  great  many  useful  gifts  and  a  newly  lined  purse,  and  after  em-  bracing  everyone  in  reach.  Aigle  stood  at  a  turret  window,  waving  ared  handkerchief.  He  took  it  to  refer  to  the  ultimate  liberation  of  Tishk,  and  was  much  affected.  A  day  or  two  later,  meals  suddenly  improved.  Gunf  and  the  head  hunts,  man  led  a  revolt,  ousted  the  kitchen  maids,  and  took  over  the  cooking.  Their  repertory  was  limited,  they  cooked  without  imagination,  they  re-  lied  too  heavily  on  pimentos  and  cel-  ery  seed.  But  meals  were  faithful  and  punctual,  and  meat  eaters  found  no  fault  with  them.  Aigle  ate  without  comment,  and  ate  rather  more  than  usual.  She  was  feeding  on  grief-a  windy  diet  that  demands  support.  In-  gobaldo  had  been  right  after  all.  W  hat  Aigle  had  needed  was  a  cicisbeo-  briefly.  Henceforward  she  cherished  an  imperishable  sorrow  and  a  beautiful  un-  resisting  memory.  Dead  to  the  world,  she  hadan  object  in  life.  She  dressed  in  black,  slept  like  a  dormouse,  with  that  sacred  handkerchief  he  had  lent  her  to  bleed  on  under  her  pillow,  dreamed  of  flying,  woke  to  a  breakfast  tray  and  after  the  breakfast  tray  an  inkpot.  Since  the  entry  of  &quot;Tamarind,  Political  Exile&quot;  she  had  written  nothing  more  in  the  Chronicle.  But  there  were  a  great  many  inciting  blank  pages,  and  she  filled  them  with  poems,  elegiac  or  narrative.  The  elegies,  neatly  copied  by  the  younger  ladies,  were  given  as  part-  ing  presents  to  the  reluctant  embassies  that  came  to  Dreiviertelstein-and  left  very  much  as  Ludla  had  said  they  would.  There  were  no  more  quests.  Her  life  was  too  full  for  quests.  Failing  quests,  it  became  the  fash-  ion  to  go  for  woodland  walks.  By  twos  and  threes,  by  sixes  and  sevens,  the  woodland  walkers,  some  with  walking  sticks,  some  with  guns,  and  equipped  with  simple  luncheons-a  ham  sand-  wich,  a  hard-boiled  egg  with  lettuce-  set  out  soon  after  breakfast.  A  couple  of  hours'  walking  brought  them  to  Ludla's  cottage  home  with  a  healthy  appetite.  There  they  would  sit  on  the  wooden  benches  outside  the  door,  hearing  Ludla  pound  and  chop  and  stir,  breathing  up  the  dear  familiar  smells  escaping  when  a  saucepan  lid  was  raised,  an  oven  door  opened.  There  they  would  sit,  pious  as  pil-  grims,  sure  of  their  faith's  reward,  hearing  the  forest  rustle,  and  Ludla  whisking  eggs.  And  then  there  would  be  a  clatter  of  plates  and  cutlery,  and  Ludla  would  come  to  the  door  and  say,  &quot;You  can  come  in  now.&quot;  As  she  had  fewer  to  cook  for,  she  cooked  more  lavishly.  Her  charges  (which  in-  cludedsecond  helpings)  were  mod-  erate,  and  she  spent  part  of  her  profits  on  the  enhancements  and  delicacies  she  had  commanded  at  the  Schloss.  Her  only  stipulation  was  that  they  should  bring  their  wine.  "