 b"WALKING  the  dog  at  7:30  [REDACTED],  I  sit  on  the  wet  grass  by  the  side  of  the  road,  directly  across  from  the  beaver  pond  and  diago-  nally  across  from  the  graveyard.  In  back  of  me  is  a  grapevine  that  I  snitch  from.  The  grapes  are  bitter.  The  dog  lifts  a  leg  on  a  gravestone,  rolls  in  dead  squirrel  in  the  road,  comes  to  my  side,  finally-thank  God  none  of  the  commuters  ran  over  him-and  licks  my  wrist,  The  wet  wrist  feels  awful.  I  rub  it  along  his  back,  passing  it  off  as  a  stroke.  I  do  it  several  times.  &quot;Please  don't  leave  me,&quot;  I  say  to  the  dog,  who  cocks  his  head  and  settles  in  the  space  between  my  legs  on  the  grass.  My  mother  writes  Jon  this  letter:  &quot;Oh,  John,  we  are  so  happy  that  September  marks  the  beginning  of  your  last  year  in  law  school.  My  husband  said  to  me  Saturday  (we  were  at  the  Turkish  restaurant  we  took  you  and  Maria  to  when  she  was  recuperating-  the  one  you  both  liked  so  much)  that  now  when  he  gets  mad  he  can  say,  I'll  sue!&quot;  and  mean  it.  It  has  been  uphill  for  so  long,  and  now  it  will  be  down-  hill.&quot;  Curiously,  that  week  an  old  friend  of  Jon's  sent  us  a  toy-a  small  bent-  kneed  skier  who,  when  placed  at  the  top  of  a  slanting  board,  would  glide  to  the  bottom.  I  tried  tofoul  up  the  toy  every  which  way.  I  even  tried  making  it  ski  on  sandpaper,  and  it  still  worked,  I  tacked  the  sandpaper  to  a  board,  and  down  it  went.  The  friend  had  bought  it  in  [REDACTED],  where  he  and  his  wife  were  vacation-  ing.  So  said  the  note  in  the  package  that  was  addressed  to  Jon,  which  I  tore  open  because  of  the  unfamiliar  handwriting,  thinking  it  might  be  evidence.  Why  do  I  think  Jon  is  unfaithful?  Because  it  would  be  logical  for  him  to  be  unfaithful.  Some  days  I  don't  even  comb  my  hair.  He  must  leave  the  house  and  see  women  with  their  hair  clean  and  brushed  back  from  their  faces,  and  he  must  desire  them  and  then  tell  them.  It  is  only  logical  that  if  he  admires  the  beauty  of  all  the  women  with  neatly  arranged  hair  one  of  them  will  want  him  to  mess  it  up.  It  is  only  logical  that  she  will  invite  him  home,  That  smile,  that  suggestion  from  a  woman  would  lure  him  as  surely  as  a  spring  rain  makes  the  earth- worms  twist  out  of  the  ground.  It  is  even  hard  to  blame  him;  he  has  a  lawyer's  logical  mind.  He  remembers  things.  He  would  not  forget  to  comb  his  hair.  He  would  certainly  not  hack  his  hair  off  with  manicuring  scissors.  If  he  cut  his  own  hair,  he  would  do  it  neatly,  with  the  correct  scissors.  &quot;What  have  you  done?&quot;  Jon  whispered.  IMogical,  too,  for  me  to  have  cut  it  in  the  living  room-to  leave  the  clumps  of  curls  fallen  on  the  rug.  &quot;What  have  you  done?&quot;  His  hands  on  my  head,  feeling  my  bones,  the  bones  in  my  skull,  looking  into  my  eyes.  &quot;You've  cut  off  your  hair,&quot;  he  said.  He  will  be  such  a  good  lawyer.  He  understands  every-  thing.  The  dog  enjoys  a  fire.  I  cook  beef  bones  for  him,  and  when  he  is  tired  of  pawing  and  chewing  Ilight  a  fire,  throwing  in  several  gift  pinecones  that  send  off  green  and  blue  and  orange  sparks,  and  I  brush  him  with  Jon's  French  hairbrush  until  his  coat  glows  in  the  firelight.  The  first  few  nights  I  lit  the  fire  and  brushed  him,  I  washed  the  brush  afterward,  so  Jon  wouldn't  find  out.  The  doctors  would  tell  me  that  was  unreasonable:  Jon  said  he  would  be  gone  a  week.  A  logical  woman,  I  no  longer  bother  with  wash-  ing  the  brush.  I  have  a  Scotch-and-milk  before  bed.  The  fire  is  still  roaring,  so  I  bring  my  pillow  to  the  hearth  and  stretch  out  on  the  bricks.  My  eyelids  get  very  warm  and  damp-the  way  they  always  did  when  I  cried  all  the  time,  which  I  don't  do  anymore.  After  all,  this  is  the  fifth  night.  As  the  doctors  say,  one  must  be  adaptable.  The  dog  tires  of  all  the  attention  and  chooses  to  sleep  under  the  desk  in  the  study.  I  have  to  call  him  twice-the  second  time  firm-  ly-before  he  comes  back  to  settle  in  the  living  room.  And  when  my  eyes  have  been  closed  for  five  minutes  he  walks  quietly  away,  back  to  the  knee-  hole  in  the  desk.  At  one  time,  Jon  decided  the  desk  was  not  big  enough.  He  bought  a  door  and  two  filing  cabi-  nets  and  made  a  new  desk.  The  dog,  a  lover  of  small,  cramped  spaces,  wan-  dered  unhappily  from  corner  to  corner,  no  longer  able  to  settle  anywhere.  Jon  brought  the  old  desk  back.  A  very  kind  man.  Like  [REDACTED]'s  crew,  I  begin  to  panic.  It  has  been  so  long  since  I've  " b"seen  Jon,  Without  him  to  check  on  me,  I  could  wander  alone  in  the  house  and  then  disappear  forever-just  van-  ish  while  rounding  a  corner,  or  by  slipping  down,  down  into  the  bathwa-  ter,  or  up  into  the  draft  the  fire  creates.  Couldn't  that  pull  me  with  it-couldn't  I  go,  with  the  cold  air,  up  the  chim-  ney,  arms  outstretched,  with  my  cupped  hands  making  a  parasol?  Or  while  sitting  in  Jon's  chair  I  might  be-  come  smaller-become  a  speck,  an  ash.  The  dog  would  sniff  and  sniff,  and  then  jump  into  the  chair  and  set-  tle  down  upon  me  and  close  his  eyes.  To  calm  myself,  I  make  tea.  Earl  Grey,  an  imported  tea.  Imported  means  coming  to;  exported  means  go-  ing  away.  I  feel  in  my  bones  (my  shin-  bones)  that  Jon  will  not  come  home.  But  perhaps  I  am  just  cold,  since  the  fire  is  not  yet  lit.  I  sip  the  Earl  Grey  tea-results  will  be  conclusive.  He  said  he  was  going  to  his  brother's  house  for  a  week.  He  said  that  after  caring  for  me  he,  also,  had  to  recuper-  ate.  I  have  no  hold  on  him.  Even  our  marriage  is  common-law-if  four  years  and  four  months  make  it  common-  law.  He  said  he  was  going  to  his  brother's.  But  how  do  I  know  where  he's  calling  from?  And  why  has  he  written  no  letters?  In  his  absence,  I  talk  to  the  dog.  I  pretend  that  I  am  Jon,  that  I  am  logical  and  reassuring.  I  tell  the  dog  that  Jon  needed  thisrest  and  will  soon  be  back.  The  dog  grows  anxious,  sniffs  Jon's  clothes  closet,  and  hangs  close  to  the  security  of  the  knechole.  It  Aas  been  a  long  time.  Celebrated  my  birthday  in  solitude.  Took  the  phone  off  the  hook  so  I  wouldn't  have  to  &quot;put  Jon  on&quot;  when  my  parents  called.  Does  the  dog  know  that  today  is  a  special  day?  No  day  is  special  without  beef  bones,  but  I  have  forgotten  to  buy  them  to  create  a  cel-  ebration.  I  go  to  the  kneehole  and  stroke  his  neck  in  sorrow.  It  occurs  to  me  that  this  is  a  story  of  a  woman  whose  man  went  away.  Billie  Holiday  could  have  done  a  lot  with  it.  I  put  on  a  blue  dress  and  go  out  to  a  job  interview.  I  order  a  half  cord  of  wood;  there  will  be  money  when  the  man  delivers  it  on  Saturday.  I  splurge  on  canned  horsemeat  for  the  dog.  &quot;You'll  never  leave,  will  you?&quot;  I  say  as  the  dog  eats,  stabbing  his  mouth  into  the  bowl  of  food.  I  think,  giddily,  that  a  dog  is  better  than  a  hog.  Hogs  are  only  raised  for  slaughter;  dogs  are  raised  to  love.  Although  I  know  this  is  true,  I  would  be  hesitant  to  voice  this  observation.  The  doctor  (glasses  slid-  ing  down  nose,  lower  lip  pressed  to  the  upper)  would  say,  &quot;Might  not  some  people  love  hogs?&quot;  I  dream  that  Jon  has  come  back,  that  we  doan  exotic  dance  in  the  liv-  ing  room.  Is  it,  perhaps,  the  tango?  As  he  leads  he  tilts  me  back,  and  suddenly  I  can't  feel  the  weight  of  his  arms  any-  more.  My  body  is  very  heavy  and  my  neck  stretches  farther  and  farther  back  until  my  body  seems  to  stretch  out  of  the  room,  passing  painlessly  through  the  floor  into  blackness.  Once  when  the  electricity  went  off  Jon  went  to  the  kitchen  to  get  candles,  and  I  crawled  under  the  bed,  loving  the  darkness  and  wanting  to  stay  in  it.  The  dog  came  and  curled  beside  me,  at  the  side  of  the  bed.  Jon  came  back  quickly,  his  hand  cupped  in  front  of  the  white  candle.  &quot;Maria?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Ma-  ria?&quot;  When  he  left  the  room  again,  I  " b"slid  forward  a  little  to  peek  and  saw  him  walking  down  the  hallway.  He  walked  so  quickly  that  the  candle  blew  out.  He  stopped  to  relight  it  and  called  my  name  louder-so  loudly  that  he  frightened  me.  I  wanted  to  answer,  to  call  out  that  I  was  under  the  bed,  but  his  voice  frightened  me.  I  stayed  there,  shivering,  thinking  him  as  terrible  as  the  Gestapo,  praying  that  the  lights  wouldn't  come  on  so  he  would  find  me.  Even  hiding  and  not  answering  was  better  than  that.  I  put  my  hands  to-  gether  and  blew  into  them,  because  I  wanted  to  scream.  When  the  lights  came  back  on  and  he  found  me,  he  pulled  me  out  by  my  hands,  and  the  scream  my  hands  had  blocked  came  out.  After  the  hot  grape  jelly  is  poured  equally  into  a  dozen  glasses,  the  fun  be-  gins.  Melted  wax  is  dropped  in  to  seal  them.  As  the  white  wax  drips,  I  think,  If  there  were  anything  down  in  there  but  jelly  it  would  be  smothered.  I  had  laid  in  no  cheesecloth,  so  I  pulled  a  pair  of  lacy  white  underpants  over  a  big  yellow  bowl,  poured  the  jelly  mixture  through  that.  IN  the  morning  Jon  is  back.  He  wal  ks  through  the  house  to  see  if  any-  thing  is  amiss.  Our  clothes  are  still  in  the  closets;  all  unnecessary  lights  have  been  turned  off.  He  goes  into  the  kitchen  and  then  is  annoyed  be-  cause  I  have  not  gone  grocery-shop-  ping.  He  has  some  toast  with  the  grape  jelly.  He  spoons  more  jelly  from  the  glass  to  his  mouth  when  the  bread  is  gone.  'Talk  to  me,  Maria.  Don't  shut  me  out,&quot;  he  says,  licking  the  jelly  from  his  upper  lip.  He  is  like  a  child,  but  one  who  orders  me  to  do  and  feel  things.  &quot;Feel  this  arm,&quot;  he  says.  It  is  tight  from  his  chopping  wood  at  his  brother's  camp.  I  met  his  brother  once.  Jon  and  his  brother  are  twins,  but  very  dissimilar.  His  brother  is  always  tan-wide  and  short,  with  broad  shoulders.  A  sleep,  he  looks  like  the  logs  that  he  chops.  W  hen  Jon  and  I  were  first  dating  we  went  to  his  brother's  camp,  and  the  three  of  us  slept  in  a  tent  because  the  house  was  not  yet  built.  Jon's  brother  snored  all  night.  &quot;I  hate  it  here,&quot;  I  whispered  to  Jon,  shivering  against  him.  He  tried  to  soothe  me,  but  he  wouldn't  make  love  to  me  there.  &quot;I  hate  your  brother,&quot;  I  said,  in  a  normal  tone  of  voice,  because  his  brother  was  snoring  so  loudly  he'd  never  hear  me.  Jon  put  his  hand  over  my  mouth.  &quot;Sh-h-h,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Please.&quot;  Naturally,  Jon  did  not  invite  me  on  this  trip  to  see  him.  I  explain  all  this  to  the  dog  now,  and  he  is  hypnotized.  He  closes  his  eyes  and  listens  to  the  drone  of  my  voice.  He  appreciates  my  hand  stroking  in  tempo  with  my  sentences.  Jon  pushes  the  jelly  away  and  stares  at  me.  &quot;Stop  talking  about  something  that  happened  years  ago,&quot;  he  says,  and  stalks  out  of  the  room.  The  wood  arrives.  The  firewood  man  has  a  limp;  he's  missing  a  toe.  I  asked,  and  he  told  me.  He's  a  good  woodman-the  toe  was  lost  canoeing.  Jon  helps  him  stack  the  logs  in  the  shed.  I  peek  in  and  see  that  there  was  already  a  lot  more  wood  than  I  thought.  Jon  comes  into  the  house  when  the  man  leaves.  His  face  is  heavy  and  ugly.&quot;Why  did  you  order  more?&quot;  Jon  says.  &quot;'To  keep  warm.  I  have  to  keep  warm.&quot;  I  fix  a  beef  stew  for  dinner,  but  feed  it  to  the  dog.  He  is  transfixed;  the  steam  warns  him  it  is  too  hot  to  eat,  yet  the  smell  is  delicious.  He  laps  tentatively  at  the  rim  of  the  bowl,  like  an  epicure  sucking  in  a  single  egg  of  caviar.  Finally,  he  eats  it  all.  And  then  there  is  the  bone,  which  he  carries  quickly  to  his  private  place  under  the  desk.  Jon  is  furious;  I  have  prepared  something  for  the  dog  but  not  for  us.  &quot;This  has  got  to  stop,&quot;  he  whispers  in  my  face,  his  hand  tight  around  my  wrist.  The  dogand  I  climb  to  the  top  of  the  hill  and  watch  the  commuters  go-  ing  to  work  in  their  cars.  I  sit  on  a  little  canvas  stool  -the  kind  fishermen  use-instead  of  the  muddy  ground.  It  is  September-mud  everywhere.  The  sun  is  setting.  Wide  white  clouds  hang  in  the  air,  seem  to  cluster  over  this  very  hilltop.  And  then  Jon's  face  is  glowing  in  the  clouds-not  a  vision,  the  real  Jon.  He  is  on  the  hilltop,  clouds  rolling  over  his  head,  saying  to  me  that  we  have  reached  the  end.  Mutiny  on  the  " b" Santa  Maria!  But  I  only  sit  and  wait,  staring  straight  ahead.  How  curious  that  this  is  the  end.  He  sits  in  the  mud,  calls  the  dog  to  him.  Did  he  really  just  say  that  to  me?  I  repeat  it:  &quot;We  have  reached  the  end.&quot;  &quot;I  know,&quot;  he  says.  The  dog  walks  into  the  room.  Jon  is  at  the  desk.  The  kneehole  is  occu-  pied,  so  the  dog  curls  in  the  corner.  He  did  not  always  circle  before  lying  down.  Habits  are  acquired,  however  late.  Like  the  furniture,  the  plants,  the  cats  left  to  us  by  the  dead,  they  take  us  in.  We  think  we  are  taking  them  in,  but  they  take  us  in,  demand  attention.  I  demand  attention  from  Jon,  at  his  desk  at  work,  his  legs  now  up  in  the  lotus  position  on  his  chair  to  offer  the  dog  his  fine  resting  place.  &quot;Jon,  Jon!&quot;  Isay,  and  dance  across  the  room.  I  posture  and  prance.  What  a  good  lawyer  he  will  be;  he  shows  polite  interest.  &quot;I'll  set  us  on  fire,&quot;  I  say.  That  is  going  too  far.  He  shakes  his  head  to  deny  what  I  have  said.  He  leads  me  by  my  wrist  to  bed,  pulls  the  covers  up  tightly.  If  I  were  afoot  lower  down  in  the  bed  I  would  smoth-  er  if  he  kept  his  hands  on  those  covers.  Like  grape  jelly.  \xc2\xabWill  there  be  eggs  and  bacon,  and  grape  jelly  on  toast,  for  breakfast?&quot;  I  ask.  There  will  be.  He  cooks  for  us  now.  I  am  so  surprised,  When  he  brings  the  breakfast  tray  I  find  out  that  to-  day  is  my  birthday.  There  are  snap-  dragons  and  roses.  He  kisses  my  hands,  lowers  the  tray  gently  to  my  lap.  The  tea  steams.  The  phone  rings.  I  have  been  hired  for  the  job.  His  hand  cov-  ers  the  mouthpiece.  Did  I  go  fora  job?  He  tells  them  there  was  a  mis-  take,  and  hangs  up  and  walks  away,  as  if  from  something  dirty.  He  walks  out  of  the  room  and  I  am  left  with  the  hot  tea.  Tea  is  boiled  so  it  can  cool.  Jon  leavesso  he  can  come  back.  Cer-  tain  of  this,  I  call  and  they  both  come-Jon  and  dog-to  settle  down  with  me.  We  have  come  to  the  end,  yet  we  are  safe,  I  move  to  the  center  of  the  bed  to  make  room  for  Jon;  tea  sloshes  from  the  cup.  His  hand  goes  out  to  steady  it.  There's  no  harm  done-the  saucer  contains  it.  He  smiles,  approvingly,  and  as  he  sits  down  his  hand  slides  across  the  sheet  like  a  rudder  through  still  waters. "