 b"THE  university  authorities  asked  me  to  supply  them  with  a  cur-  riculum  vitae.  &quot;Curriculum,&quot;  ac-  cording  to  my  dictionary,  derives  from  the  Latin  for  a  racecourse.  In  Eng-  lish,  it  means  a  course  of  study  offered  by  a  school  or  one  of  its  divisions.  In  either  case,  I  can't  see  what  it  has  to  do  with  &quot;vitae;&quot;  but  then,  I  have  no  Latin,  having  given  it  up  at  the  age  of  thirteen,  together  with  algebra,  as  a  language  entirely  beyond  my  compre-  hension.  The  racecourse  of  life?  No  academic  would  sink  so  low.  A  course  of  study  offered  (but  not  necessarily  accepted)  by  some  school  during  the  course  of  my  life?  But,  even  excluding  Latin  and  algebra,  there  have  been  so  many:  Goethe's  theory  of  color,  bot-  any  (a  corm  is  the  swollen  under-  ground  stem  of  an  erect  shoot),  the  Use  of  Colloquialism  in  Wordsworth,  the  scale  of  D  minor,  the  Book  of  Common  Prayer  (with  particular  at-  tention  to  the  Churching  of  Women),  the  structure  and  function  of  the  in-  testinal  tract,  the  death  of  queens  and  the  birth  of  kings  ...  I  couldn't  begin  to  write  down  the  courses  of  study  I  havebeen  offered,  and,  with  varying  degrees  of  success,  have  rejected.  The  school  of  life,  then?  But  that  is  pre-  posterous.  I  lie  in  the  semidark  of  midnight,  in  bed,  alert  as  a  dog  listening  to  the  sing-  ing  of  ghosts.  My  curriculum  vitae:  my  life.  It  could  all  be  put  down  in  a  cou-  ple  of  lines;  three  paragraphs;  surely  no  more  than  five  pages?  I  turn  on  the  light,  bound  (yes,  I  bound)  out  ofbed,  pick  up  spectacles  and  cigarettes  on  my  way  to  the  typewriter.  It  is  not  a  long  way;  I  live  in  one  room.  But  what  shall  I  write?  Begin  where?  With  birth?  I  believe,  as  forthe  first  time  I  face  my  life  in  this  unusual  manner,  that  whole  decades  can  be  slipped  be-  tween  parentheses,  that  the  facts  of  my  life  could  be  written,  if  not  on  a  post-  age  stamp,  then  at  most  on  a  post-  card-a  test,  I  was  once  taught,  to  be  applied  to  all  great  novels,  including  Proust.  Dates,  apart  from  children's  birthdays  and  one  or  two  irrelevant  an-  niversaries,  are  meaningless  to  me.  I  envy  those  people  who,  with  such  con-  fidence,  can  identify  '58,  '65,  '72  as  the  vintage  years  of  love  or  death  of  one  sort  or  another.  I  have  no  idea  in  which  years  my  grandmothers  or  even  my  father  died.  I  know  that  it  was  all  a  long  time  ago,  and  that  on  the  day  of  my  father's  cremation  my  son  was  crawling,  or  possibly  walking.  I  have  no  idea  when  I  first  went  to  Bourne-  mouth  or  [REDACTED]  or  Henley-on-Thames  or  Rome  or  New  York,.  I  know  I  flew  to  [REDACTED]  in  March,  1938,  because  history  supports  me,  and  that  between  then  and  the  outbreak  of  the  Second  World  War  I  travelled  in  many  di-  rections,  back  and  forth,  west  to  east,  east  to  west;  and  that  toward  the  end  of  1945  I  went  to  [REDACTED]  and  atethe  first  steak  of  my  life,  because  the  war  was  over.  But  if  there  had  been  no  Anschluss,  no  Munich,  no  war  and  no  peace,  I  should  merely  be  able  to  recognize  that  time  as  &quot;when  I  was  young.&quot;  It  is  not  reassuring.  Perhaps  I  have  forgotten  being  alive  at  all.  One  should  be  part  of  one's  time.  My  time  has  carried  me  along,  no  doubt.  I  have  breathed  its  air,  worn  its  clothes,  made  use  of  its  machinery,  spoken  its  ver-  nacular,  submitted,  in  some  ways,  to  its  mores.  And  yet  the  years  of  my  younger  children's  births  still  seem  to  me  very  recent;  and  yesterday  is  so  long  ago  that  it  must  be  part  of  my  childhood,  perhaps  of  my  infancy.  I  am  not  synchronized  with  my  time;  have  lost  its  rhythm.  I  am  listening  for  it  now.  I  know  (being  no  fool)that  &quot;cur-  riculum  vitae&quot;  is  intended  to  mean  a  list  of  academic  attendance  and  quali-  fication.  I  could  begin,  therefore,  a  few  years  after  my  birth,  with  my  education.  This  only  takes  a  moderate  amount  of  space,  though  too  much  to  fit  on  a  printed  form.  From  the  age  of  six  to  eight  I  attended  a  school  run  by  my  mother,  where  I  learned  hymns,  cruelty,  and  how  to  sew  blanket  stitch.  Around  the  age  of  eight,  I  was  sent  for  a  few  weeks  to  Croydon  High  School;  my  sole  recollection  is  of  standing  to  attention  behind  a  desk,  wearing  a  gym  tunic  and  holding  my  breath  against  the  smell  of  disinfectant.  From  there  I  was  moved  to  the  An-  throposophists  (The  New  School,  Streatham),  where  I  believe  I  was  very  happy  for  some  time,  wearing  red  because  of  my  choleric  tem-  perament  (their  diagnosis  was  wrong,  or  was  I  not  yet  qualified  for  melan-  cholic  blue?  ),  blandly  dis-  regarding  the  manic  glare  of  Dr.  Rudolf  Steiner  from  the  classroom  wall  while  I  recited  my  daily  and  personal  maxim:  &quot;Venture  valiantly  toward  the  goal  you  have  set  before  you.&quot;  In  summer  Streatham,  I  fell  in  love  with  my  an-  throposophical  music  mas-  ter  and  therefore  learned  to  play  the  recorder;  I  also  beat  up  a  ten-year-old  556e6974656420537461746573n  called  Eric  on  the  tennis  court.  Until  one  day,  with  ab-  solutely  no  explanation,  I  was  put  on  a  train  and  " b"sent  to  Crewe,  which  delighted  me,  since  there  was  in  those  days  an  ad-  vertisement  (though  for  what,  other  than  foresight,  I  have  no  idea)  de-  picting  a  desperate  lady  in  a  cloche,  surrounded  by  suitcases,  bewailing,  &quot;Oh,  Mr.  Porter,  what  shallI  do?  I  was  reading  Everybody's  and  got  car-  ried  on  to  Crewe!&quot;  Crewe,  like  Val-  halla,  Delphi,  or  Troy,  was  therefore  part  ofa  myth.  I  was  met  there  by  someone  who  told  me  to  call  her  Aunt  Flo,  though  I  had  never  seen  her  be-  fore  in  my  life  and  instinctively  knew  she  was  no  blood  relative;  and  was  carried  on  to  Rhyl,  in  North  [REDACTED],  where  for  a  year  or  so  I  stayed  con-  tentedly  enough  at  a  school  called  Blencathra.  Again  we  learned  hymns,  and  how  to  sew  on  buttons,  and  how  to  behave  properly  at  table  in  case  Princess  Elizabeth  asked  us  to  tea.  The  extreme  improbability  of  this  fantasy-  or  threat-didn't  disturb  me,  nor  did  the  fact  that  the  school  happened  to  be  in  the  house  where  I  was  born.  I  was  not  even  curious  enough  to  ask  to  see  the  exact  room  in  which  my  mother  (I  believed  her,  but  without  guilt)  had  suffered  such  agonies.  I  saved  up  ten  shillings  of  my  pocket  money-it  took  six  months  or  so-and  sent  it  to  her  as  a  contribution  toward  her  train  fare,  asking  her  to  come  and  stay.  She  came,  and  spent  all  her  time  closeted  with  the  headmistress  (Aunt  Flo),  knitting.  This  was  perhaps  the  second  betrayal  of  my  life  (the  first  has  no  place  here).  Nevertheless,  I  could  sew  on  buttons  and  decided  that  I  could,  with  a  certain  amount  of  ingenuity,  look  like  Greta  Garbo.  I  had  acute  cross-eyes,  wore  heavy  spectacles,  and  was  about  eleven  years  old.  Blencathra,  again  with  no  satisfac-  tory  explanation,  closed  down.  I  ar-  rived  at  The  Garden  School,  in  Ox-  fordshire.  The  Garden  School  was  run  according  to  the  principles  of  A.  S.  Neill  and  was  the  first  of  innumera-  ble  group  situations  with  which  I  have  found  it  impossible  to  cope.  As  I  wasn't  required  to  go  to  lessons,  I  wandered  round  among  the  mangy  rabbits  and  cats  for  a  few  weeks,  the  mud  (it  was  a  wet  summer,  and  fashionable  to  go  barefoot)  squelching  between  my  toes,  After  that,  for  shelter,I  crept  into  whatever  class  I  could  find,  whether  it  was  seventeen-year-  olds  studying  Comparative  Religion  or  five-year-olds  pounding  clay.  Rabin-  dranath  Tagore  visited  and,  since  I  was  passing,  blessed  me.  I  was  deeply  miserable.  I  wrote  passionate  letters  to  my  parents  insisting  that  I  wanted  to  work,  to  be  useful  in  life.  This  may  have  been  the  only  time  in  my  career  when  I  aspired  to  the  heights  of  be-  coming  a  hospital  nurse.  I  had  for  many  years  been  writing  rather  sickly  poetry,  full  of  elves  and  twilight,  and  this,  together  with  my  naive  ambition  to  work  for  my  living,  alarmed  my  parents  sufficiently  to  remove  me  from  The  Garden  School.  I  was  accepted  (God  presumably  knew  why,  since  I  could  barely  write  down  a  single  fact)  by  St.  Elphin's  School  for  the  Daugh-  ters  of  the  Clergy,  of  which  I  was  one,  near  Matlock,  in  Derbyshire.  This  was  my  sixth  school.  I  was,  I  imagine,  about  twelve  years  old.  The  long  story  of  St.  Elphin's  has  no  place  in  a  curriculum  vitae.  At  first,  like  a  stateless  criminal  accepted  into  an  efficient  and  secure  prison,  I  was  deliriously  happy.  Let  that,  as  it  did,  pass.  I  stayed  there  for  about  four  years  and  left  with  a  reputable  School  Cer-  tificate  (Honors  in  Scripture  and  Eng-  lish  Literature,  in  that  order),  straight  eves,  no  spectacles,  a  passion  for  Gary  Cooper,  and  an  intense  disgust  for  the  Anglo-Catholic  Church,  from  which,  as  far  as  the  school's  chapel  was  con-  cerned,  I  had  been  excommunicated.  I  had  run  away;  been  caught  smoking  Gold  Flake  won  at  a  church  bazaar;  fallen  in  and  out  of  love;  and  written,  at  a  rough  estimate,  a  hundred  thou-  sand  words  of  consistently  increasing  gloom.  The  only  person  with  whom  I  made  any  kind  of  contact  was  the  English  teacher,  a  flushed  young  wom-  an  called  Sheila  Mary  Taylor.  Wher-  J  &gt;  hout  \xc2\xae  2p  ever  Miss  Taylor  may  be-in  graceful  and  contented  retirement,  I  hope-I  bless  her.  She  must  have  just  come  down  from  Oxford,  for  on  boat-race  afternoons  she  would  become  very  pale,  savagely  whispering  &quot;In!  Out!,&quot;  and  making  wild  rowing  motions  across  her  desk.  It  is  typical  that  I  don't  remember  how  often  [REDACTED]  won;  but  since  she  always  burst  into  tears  at  the  finish,  I  presume  always.  I  know  now  that  S.M.T.--as  she  signed  our  papers-must  have  suffered  a  good  deal.  I  left  St.  Elphin's  without  cere-  mony.  Since  I  had  been  expelled  and  recalled  at  least  twice  and  had  proved  myself  to  be  constant  trouble,  this  was  hardly  surprising.  My  parents,  how-  ever,  must  have  been  faced  with  a  grave  problem;  as  with  all  their  prob-  lems,  except  my  father's  general  de-  spair  about  life  (which  he  always  re-  ferred  toas  &quot;Life&quot;),  they  did  not  face  me  with  it.  All  their  money  had  been  spent  on  educating  my  older  brother  to  be  Prime  Minister,  or  at  least  Man-  aging  Director  of  the  United  Dairies  (which  was,  though  in  the  most  re-  mote  way,  the  family  business),  I  stubbornly  asserted  that  I  wanted  &quot;to  bea  writer,&quot;  since  my  ambition  to  be  useful  had  been  educated  out  of  me  and  all  hopes  of  becoming  a  second  Ginger  Rogershad  dissipated  with  my  father's  capital.  What  do  you  do  with  a  girl  who  wants  to  bea  writer?  They  sent  me  from  Derbyshire  to  [REDACTED],  to  enroll  in  an  institution  called  the  Central  Educational  Bureau  for  Wom-  en.  I  was  to  become  a  secretary.     HE  Central  Educational  Bureau  for  Women  was  in  Russell  Square.  Ilived  in  a  hostel  on  the  Cromwell  Road,  supervised  by  a  Miss  Wodge  or  Warple.  I  was  given  a  pound  a  week  to  live  on.  I  was  six-  teen  and,  perhaps,  one  week.  'They  attempted  to  teach  me  commercial  French  and  shorthand.  Shorthand  af-  fected  me  as,  some  years  before,  Latin  and  algebra  had  done.  I  stared  at  it;  I  " b"tried  to  make  sense  of  it;  I  wept  and  raged;  I  gave  up,  though  to  this  day,  when  doodling,  find  myself  writing  the  symbol  for  &quot;'The  Blessed  Virgin  Mary&quot;  over  and  over  in  various  un-  suitable  margins.  I  discovered  I  had  some  rare  disease  that  needed  treat-  ment  on  Wednesdays.  On  Wednes-  days  I  would  sit  in  the  park,  or  on  my  bed,  and  write  even  gloomier  poetry.  This  only  left  Mondays,  Tuesdays,  Thursdays,  and  Fridays.  I  contem-  plated  becoming  a  hooker,  but  hadn't  the  heart  for  it.  I  caught  flu  frequently.  Mythical  grandmotherswere  buried.  Finally,  driven  to  rebellion  by  having  to  type  &quot;The  quick  brown  fox  jumps  over  the  lazy  dog&quot;  a  hundred  times  on  a  gleaming  Remington,  I  wrote  an-  other  passionate  letter  to  my  parents:  I  was  a  writer;  I  must  go  to  a  univer-  sity,  any  university;  I  must  Zleerr  something.  At  that  time,  the  Rector  or  Dean-  or  whatever  ecclesiastical  disguise  he  affected-of  University  College,  Lon-  don,  was  Mr.  Solomon.  He  seldom  opened  his  eyes.  My  Anglo-Catholic  headmistress  wrote  that,  in  spite  of  my  undoubted  flair  for  Scripture  and  Eng-  lish,  he  should  have  nothing  to  do  with  me:  I  was  &quot;a  bad  influence,&quot;  I  was  &quot;difficult.&quot;  With  peacefully  closed  eye-  lids,  Mr.  Solomon  asked  me  about  this.  I  think  I  said  that  everyone  was  en-  titled  to  their  opinion,  but  I  did  want  to  bea  writer.  He  nodded,  rocking  on  his  chair,  and  gave  me  two  assignments.  One  had  something  to  do  with  film;  I  don't  remember  the  other.  I  wrote  them  both  with  terrible  care,  and  was  accepted  into  the  Journalism  Course.  I  suppose  it  was  pretty  generous  of  Mr.  Solomon  to  accept  me  on  the  strength  of  a  detailed  knowledge  of  St.  Mat-  thew's  Gospel  and  &quot;The  Prelude,&quot;  given  my  reputation  for  subversion.  I  attended  two  lectures  on  &quot;Prac-  tical  Journalism.&quot;  At  the  first,  I  was  told  that  if  you  were  reporting  thata  fire  had  broken  out,  you  did  not  begin  your  piece,  &quot;A  fire  has  broken  out;&quot;  you  began  it,  &quot;Little  Tommy  Whatnot  was  homeless  last  night  after  fire  swept  the  tenement  building  ...  ,&quot;  and  so  on.  I  did  not  wish  to  write  about  little  Tommy  Whatnot's  experiences  with  fire,  but  understood  the  principle.  At  the  second  class,  I  was  taken  up  by  a  football  team,  who  invited  me  for  milkshakes  or  Knickerbocker  Glories  or  whatever  it  was  that  made  social  intercourse  tolerable  in  those  days.  It  was  another  group  situation  that  I  found  completely  beyond  me.  By  now  I  was  modelling  my  appearance-if  a  slapdash  approximation  to  an  image  can  be  called  modelling-on  Hedy  La- marr  rather  than  Garbo.  It  fooled  the  football  team  until  I  tried  to  talk  to  them.  I  used  the  words  I  knew  and  the  thoughts  I  had  accumulated.  Their  faces  drooped  as  the  milkshakes  drained.  It  was-and  still  is-one  of  the  most  embarrassing  hours  of  my  life.  They  had  imagined  me,  perhaps,  wear-  ing  an  immense  scarf,  cheering  them  on  from  the  sidelines,  even  waving  a  rattle.  I  had  imagined  them  as  eleven  young  Audens,  at  whose  sturdy  feet  I  could  sit,  probably  yearning.  In  spite  of  an  affair  with  a  Rhodes  Scholar  who  had  read  aloud  to  me  all  of  Plato's  Dialogues  in  the  hope  of  starting,  rath-  er  than  furthering,  my  education,  I  was  entirely  innocent.  It  is  only  pos-  sible  to  educate  the  ignorant.  The  in-  nocent  are  beyond  help.  So  I  decided  to  give  up  Practical  Journalism;  and  Economics;  and  Po-  litical  Philosophy,  whatever  that  may  have  been.  But  I  attended  with  rigor-  ous  discipline  the  lectures  on  Modern  English  Literature,  which  were  quite  useless  for  the  type  of  journalist  my  instructors  intended  me  to  be.  And  I  lived,  on  my  pound  a  week,  in  the  way  I  wanted  to  live.  The  poems  became  ever  more  obscure,  more  loaded  with  doom.  I  thought  Dos  Passos  was  the  greatest  writer  alive,  and  that  the  " b"streets  of  [REDACTED]  were  paved  with  golden  words.  I  even  knew  somebody  who  knew  somebody  who  knew  Alis-  tair  Cooke.  I  affected  an  indeterminate  556e6974656420537461746573n  accent,  and  believed  a  very  grubby  young  man-the  Pretender  to  the  throne  of  [REDACTED],  he  said,  though  he  came  from  Scarborough-who  told  me  that  according  to  my  horoscope  I  would  never  achieve  fame  and  fortune  until  I  wrote  a  play  for  [REDACTED].  [REDACTED],  like  Crewe,  was  mythical;  I  knew  only  that  it  had  lights  and  a  Lullaby.  I  became  engaged  to  be  mar-  ried  (a  curious  formality,  common  in  those  days)  to  an  indigent  Dutch  poet  and  a  rich  Belgian  carpet  manufacturer  simultaneously.  To  divert  me  from  all  these  (to  him)  outlandish  possibil-  ities,  my  father  took  me  on  holiday  to  Knocke-sur-Mer,  where  I  behaved  (according  to  him)  badly.  Once  out  of  the  secure  ambience  ofa  country  vicarage,  he  realized  that  he  had  no  money.  On  our  return  to  [REDACTED],  ne  told  me  to  go  out  and  find  a  job.  I  did,  as  secretary  to  the  publicity  manager  of  a  chain  of  holiday  camps.  My  edu-  cation  was  over,.  ND  that,  I  imagine,  is  my  curricu-  lum  vitae.  I  am,  it's  true,  a  Fel-  low  of  the  Royal  Society  of  Literature;  but  one  pays  for  that,  or  is  sternly  invited  to  pay.  My  membership  may,  as  an  honor,  be  cheap  at  the  price,  but  it  is  as  meaningless  to  me  as  the  names  of  my  seven  schools  would  be  without  their  associations.  W  hat  is  more  impor-  tant  to  me  is  that  I  have  skimmed,  in  this  midnight,  over  the  English  coun-  tryside,  suburban  [REDACTED],  the  Mid-  lands,  prewar  Bloomsbury,  and  that  I  am  now  in  New  York.  My  qualifica-  tions  are  rooted  in  territory:  in  rooms  and  the  smells  of  rooms;  in  roads  that  lead  up  the  hill  or  through  the  woods  or  past  the  Natural  History  Museum,  a  restaurant  called  Bertorelli's,  a  Nor-  man  church  in  a  valley;  and  now,  in  numbered  avenues.  My  life  is  territory  to  be  regained:  my  lawful  right.  It  is  impossible  to  resist  a  postscript  at  the  bottom  ofthat  august  form,  though  no  doubt  it  would  have  to  be  spidered  up  the  margin.  The  job  with  the  holiday  camps  lasted  three  weeks.  My  employ-  er  took  me  out  for  a  drink,  laid  a  heavy  hand  on  my  knee,  and  told  me  that  he  wanted  a  secretary,  not  a  bloody  ornament  on  a  Christmas  tree.  I  decided  that  the  only  way  I  could  be  free  and  autonomous  was  to  depend  on  someone  who  loved  me  rather  than  on  people  who  wanted  to  use  me  for  obscure  and  unpleasant  purposes.  So,  dressed  entirely  in  black,  I  married  a  kindly  reporter  in  the  Lady  chapel  of  Salisbury  Cathedral.  And  we  sang:  He  who  would  valiant  be  'Gainst  all  disaster,  Let  him  in  constancy  Follow  the  Master.  'There's  no  discouragement  Shall  make  him  once  relent  His  first  avowed  intent  'To  be  a  pilgrim.  ...  I  knew  the  words.  As  far  as  hymns  were  concerned,  my  education  had  been  first-rate.  "