 b"THE  baby  is  falling.  Marilyn  Joyce  has  struggled  into  her  Mexican  dress  and  gone  into  the  nursery  in  time  to  see  the  baby  fall  from  the  changing  table  to  the  floor,  an  astonished  look  on  its  face.  &quot;My  baby,&quot;  Marilyn  screams.  The  baby  hits  the  rug.  The  babysitter,  twelve  years  old,  snatches  it  up  and  runs  with  it  to  Marilyn.  The  baby  is  screaming.  Marilyn  is  screaming.  The  babysitter  runs  out  of  the  room.  Marilyn  jumps  with  and  screams  with  the  baby,  who  is  unhurt.  People  come  running  into  the  room.  Arthur  Joyce  comes  run-  ning  in  from  the  deck.  On  the  floor  below,  [REDACTED]  is  stroking  his  mustache,  his  camera  slung  around  his  neck.  &quot;I  feel  very  close  to  Marilyn  and  Arthur,&quot;  he  is  telling  Heather  Bayley,  a  girl  he  knows  from  group.  The  house  is  in  the  trees.  Peo-  ple  keep  arriving,  parking  their  cars  along  the  road,  going  up  the  outside  stairs  to  the  deck  or  through  the  kitchen  and  up  the  inside  stairs  to  the  living  room  to  drink  Mimosas,  a  com-  bination  of  orange  juice  and  cham-  pagne.  It  is  a  party  for  which  the  guest  list  has  gotten  out  of  hand.  [REDACTED]  is  wondering,  should  he  take  Heather  to  bed  at  his  house  nearby  after  lunch,  before  swimming,  after  swimming,  before  dinner,  after  din-  ner,  etc.  He  keeps  staring  at  her  mid-  riff,  two  inches  of  tanned,  creamy  exposure  between  pants  band  and  knitted  halter;  as  usual  he  cannot  make  up  his  mind.  It  has  rained  all  week  but  now  the  sun  has  come  out;  children  are  running  up  and  down  the  stairs.  The  woods  are  wet,  smelling  damply  of  rot.  [REDACTED],  postponing  his  decision,  takes  Heather  downstairs  and  outdoors  to  inspect  the  new  silver  Volkswagen  412  station  wagon  he  bought  to  transport  his  children  to  the  country  on  their  weekends  with  him.  Ostensibly  that  was  the  reason;  actual-  ly  he  is  upset  because  his  friend  Jason  Goodman  is  dying,  and  he  bought  the  car  to  make  himself  feel  better.  Heath-  er  doesn't  know  about  Jason,  which  is  very  good,  because  otherwise  she  would  make  [REDACTED]  talk  it  all  out.  The  house  is  so  new  it  creaks.  It  smells  of  raw  wood  and  turpentine.  On  the  ground-floor  level  lunch  is  be-  ing  served:  the  guestsare  lining  up  on  the  stairs  and  rushing  down  them;  the  line  moves  as  fast  as  any  in  a  cafeteria.  The  hosts  have  taken  two  days  off  from  work  to  prepare.  They  have  cut,  chopped,  shredded,  braised,  licked,  tast-  ed,  and  fried.  They  have  spent  hours  making  culinary  decisions.  They  have  shopped  seriously,  and  carried  out  tons  of  garbage.  The  result-heroic-lies  on  platters  waiting  to  be  devoured:  a  pat\xc3\xa9  de  maison  in  aspic,  a  ham  glazed  with  cognac  and  marmalade,  cold  sliced  pork  with  horseradish  applesauce,  huge  bowls  of  pilaf  with  mushrooms  and  cheese.  There  are  six  salads:  a  romaine  with  cherry  tomatoes  and  anchovies,  a  watercress  and  bacon,  a  French  potato,  a  coleslaw  with  tangerines,  a  huge  mixed  bean,  a  Caesar  with  chopped  egg.  Deirdre,  Jason's  fourteen-year-old  daughter,  called  Dee-Dee,  helps  out  at  the  buffet,  passing  napkins  and  silver-  ware;  she  will  remember  this  day.  Marilyn  has  gone  out  on  the  rocky  lawn,  a  figure  in  white,  circulating  among  her  guests.  Arthur  is  upstairs  on  the  deck,  talking  with  a  drink  in  his  hand.  In  Dee-Dee's  opinion,  the  Joyces  have  a  marriage  that  works.  She  has  seen  them  chop  together,  and  shred;  she  has  seen  them  taste  each  other's  sauces.  They  compliment  each  other  and  back  each  other  up;  the  rarity  of  it  dazzles  her.  Enchantment  is  what  she  feels  in  their  presence,  though  she  would  not  use  the  word.  Feeling  it,  she  soars.  Someday  shetoo  will  have  a  handsome  husband,  a  flowing  white  dress,  a  glass  house  full  of  guests,  a  baby.  She  sees  herself  out  on  the  same  rocky  lawn,  grown  beautiful,  loved.  Marilyn,  now  on  the  deck,  smiles.  She  and  Arthur  and  the  baby  pose  for  [REDACTED]'s  camera.  What  swirls  around  her  head  as  they  do  this  is  time:  time  past,  time  to  come,  time  lost  forever.  On  the  deck  there  are  hanging  baskets  of  geraniums  and  ivy.  Her  house  is  full;  fifty  people  in  the  living  room,  moving  around,  asking  each  other,  &quot;How  longhave  you  known  Marilyn     and  Arthur?&quot;  A  dog  belonging  to  someone  at  the  party  wanders  around  with  his  tail  between  hislegs.  Marilyn,  who  does  not  like  public  occasions,  smiles  with  her  chin  raised,  her  mouth  stretched  tight,  Arthur  standing  jaun-  tily  to  her  left.  Behind  them  are  trees  just  come  into  leaf.  [REDACTED]  knows  when  he  has  a  good  picture.  One  day  when  he  was  four-  teen  years  old,  he  photographed,  lying  on  his  belly,  a  twig  caught  in  a  rush-  ing  brook,  experiencing  for  the  first  time  an  aesthetic  thrill.  It  endures.  Down  on  one  knee  now  to  catch  the  Joyces,  he  recalls  taking  snapshots  on  another  summer  day-my  God,  could  it  really  have  been  seventeen  years  ago?-of  Marilyn  with  Jason.  He  still  has  the  best  one  somewhere,  in  a  drawer-a  quick  shot  showing  them  on  the  dunes  at  Provincetown,  Mari-  lyn  with  her  hair  and  skirt  blowing,  smiling  as  tightly  as  now,  Jason  with  his  rapacious  grin  as  he  cups  his  left  hand  around  her  breast.  Marilyn  kisses  [REDACTED].  &quot;I  can  al-  ways  dependon  you  for  something  beautiful,&quot;  she  tells  him.  They  stroll  arm  in  arm  into  the  living  room.  Ar-  thur  remains  behind  on  the  deck,  showing  the  baby  off  to  his  guests,  fol-  lowed  around  by  the  dog.  Dee-Dee  has  come  up  from  the  kitchen  and  Marilyn  and  [REDACTED]  embrace  her.  They  do  this  awkwardly,  all  three  in  a  circle.  A  week  ago,  when  [REDACTED]  went  to  see  Jason  in  the  hospital,  ready  to  be  of  service,  to  do  anything,  Jason  was  wearing  a  beret  in  bed  and  pre-  tended  not  to  be  dying.  Dee-Dee  has  long,  burnished  blond  hair;  Marilyn  and  [REDACTED]  pause  to  stroke  her  hair.  BARBARA  is  eating.  Whenever  she  eats  she  feels  like  a  thief,  with  one  eye  on  the  clock.  She  hopes  to  finish  her  meal  before  Jason  rings.  A  system  of  bells  has  been  rigged  up  throughout  the  ten-room  apartment;  Jason  will  not  have  a  nurse.  Barbara  is  eating  whitefish,  Greek  salad,  Nova  Scotia  salmon,  cream  cheese  with  chives,  black  bread,  olives,  Italian  salami,  pickled  herring,  German  potato  salad,  arti-  choke  hearts,  and  assorted  rolls.  She  walked  home  from  the  delicatessen  on  [REDACTED]  in  the  middle  of  the  after-  noon  with  all  this  food.  For  dessert  there  is  waiting  for  her  blueberry  sherbet,  miniature  Danish,  cheesecake,  Dobos  Torte,  and  there  is  coffee  with  cream.  In  the  past  months  her  weight  has  shot  up.  Jason's  has  gone  down.  She  can  carry  him  around  like  a  baby.  Jason  is  in  bed  in  the  front  bedroom,  propped  up  among  the  pillows,  watch-  ing  a  baseball  game  on  TV.  In  the  " b"hospital,  among  the  white  enamelled  iron,  the  white  sheets,  the  white  counterpane,  he  looked  like  a  man  beached,  stranded,  lost.  He  wore  his  beret  to  anchor  him  down.  At  home  he  wears  blue  silk  pajamas,  and  the  sheets  have  riotous  red,  white,  and  blue  flowers;  he  looks  like  an  old  doll  dressed  up  for  a  party.  Sometimes  he  tells  himself,  &quot;On  my  next  birthday  I  will  not  be  here  to  be  forty  years  old.&quot;  It  is  possible  to  forget  you  are  dying;  Jason  forgets  for  several  hours  at  a  time,  watching  baseball.  In  the  past  he  never  watched  a  game;  now  he  loves  them.  His  criticism  of  the  players  is  re-  morseless.  His  bed  is  rented,  and  moves  up  and  down.  He  can  control  the  television  with  a  button,  and  he  has  a  view  of  Central  Park,  all  green.  Jason  smiles  at  a  perfect  pitch.  An  oxygen  mask  is  on  the  bedside  table;  green  cannisters  of  oxygen  stand  on  the  floor.  Checking  out  of  the  hospital  the  week  before,  he  told  thenurses,  &quot;I'm  going  skin-diving  in  the  Caribbean.&quot;  The  bells  ring  as  Barbara  brings  the  first  forkful  of  cheesecake  to  her  mouth.  The  ting  sounds  in  each  of  the  ten  rooms.  'The  apartment  was  pur-  chased  because  it  had  space  for  offices  for  both  of  them--Jason  is  a  psychia-  trist  and  Barbara  is  a  psychologist-  and  a  shared  waiting  room.  Jason's  office  was  done  in  brown,  Barbara's  in  beige.  The  waiting  room  is  beige  and  brown.  Last  Christmas,  before  his  at-  tack,  they  had  talked  of  selling  the  place.  Jason  had  wanted  a  divorce,  not  for  any  new  reason  but  for  all  the  old  ones,  Success  bored  him.  He  wanted  to  start  again,  somewhere  new.  Barbara  understood  all  his  reasons  without  re-  specting  them  much.  Arguing  with  Ja-  son  sapped  her  ofthe  stamina  she  needed  for  her  work.  The  bells  stop.  He  knows  she  will  not  run.  Last  winter  she  ran,  almost  sobbing,  every  time  he  rang.  'That's  over.  Keeping  her  head  down,  she  goes  toward  the  front  bedroom.  Pass-  ing  the  living  and  dining  rooms,  she  sees  the  late-afternoon  sun  gleaming  on  the  parquet,  hears  the  sound  of  her  own  steps  in  the  silence.  Jason  looks  at  Barbara,.  Each  time  she  comes  to  his  room,  he  sees  a  fear-  ful  expectation  in  her  eyes,  which  he  is  doing  his  best  to  disappoint.  But  could  a  dead  man  ring  a  bell?  What  she  must  be  afraid  of,  then,  are  his  final  moments,  her  own  helplessness  as  he  groans  and  rattles.  Perhaps  she  thinks  he  will  drag  her  with  him  off  to  Hell.  There  could  be  no  doubt  in  her  mind,  he  is  sure,  about  where  he  is  going.  At  the  hospital,  during  his  coma,  he  had  been  stripped  naked  and  suspended  upside  down  with  hot  towels  wrapped  around  his  head,  He  thought  he  had  died  and  gone  to  Hell,  or  to  the  [REDACTED].  &quot;''The  blinds?&quot;  Barbara  does  not  speak;  she  is  mouthing  at  him.  She  is  never  very  far  from  hysteria.  Upon  coming  into  his  room,  she  treats  him  as  if  he  is  not  only  dying  but  deaf  and  dumb.  &quot;The  blinds,&quot;  she  will  pantomime-the  covers,the  chair,  the  phone,  the  writing  materials,  the  re-  frigerator?  &quot;My  orange  drink.&quot;  Barbara  is  dealing  with  a  man  who  has  a  balloon  in  his  heart;  at  the  time  of  his  attack  the  doctors  at  the  hospital  were  experimenting  with  new  devices.  His  balloon,  which  enters  by  way  of  an  artery,  helps  the  undamaged  part  of  his  heart  to  work.  Because  Ja-  son  is  a  doctor,  he  can  talk  knowledge-  ably  about  his  balloon  with  the  other  doctors,  which  they  like.  They  cross  their  legs  and  discuss  his  case.  He  has  gotten  the  best  of  care.  Bar-  bara  is  consoled  by  this,  not  Jason.  She  measures  his  orange  juice  and  Perrier  water  as  carefully  as  if  it  were  a  Mar-  tini,  She  is  his  nurse  now,  He  has  fired  " b"several-one  because  she  had  too  many  hairs  on  her  chinny-chin-chin.  There  is  still  one  with  big  shoes  who  comes  in  daily  to  give  him  injections.  Jason  wonders,  does  this  woman  pouring  orange  juice  in  a  white  room  with  a  white  rug  have  any  idea  that  when  he  gives  up  the  ghost  his  balloon  will  exit  from  his  mouth,  carrying  him  off  to  Tahiti?  We  live  with  mar-  vels.  Occasionally  we  die  with  them.  Then  we  get  carried  to  the  autopsy  in  a  plastic  sack.  Our  friends  write  up  the  results  for  their  medical  journals.  Barbara  hands  Jason  his  orange  drink.  His  eyes,  ringed  with  purple,  make  him  look  like  a  panda.  Barbara  is  not  afraid  of  Jason's  death,  which  she  expects.  She  is  afraid  of  his  terrible  fears,  his  terrible  tears,  his  anger.  Ja-  son  is  glaring  balefully  above  the  cov-  ers.  At  the  very  least  he  expected  to  be  able  to  say  that  although  his  life  was  short  it  was  well  spent.  He  cannot  say  that.  His  life  has  been  one  of  time  wasted,  opportunities  unrecognized,  people  who  loved  him  ignored,  and  those  who  did  not  respect  him  catered  to.  Jason  glares,  Barbara  has  forgotten  his  straw.  NTHUR  stands  in  the  middle  of  the  living  room,  talking  to  people  and  holding  the  baby,  now  fast  asleep  in  her  pink  rug.  People  are  going  ooh  and  ah.  They  stream  in  and  out  of  the  room,  up  and  down  the  stairs,  out  onto  the  deck,  down  to  the  kitchen  for  food,  out  onto  the  lawn,  where  they  stand  in  the  sunshine,  holding  their  plates.  Marilyn  is  in  the  bathroom,  search-  ing  for  her  Isuprel.  Her  face  is  con-  torted,  she  struggles  to  breathe,  her  chest  goes  in  and  out  with  wheezes.  As  she  looks  through  the  cabinet,  cans  of  deodorant  fall  into  the  sink  and  she  tells  herself  to  keep  calm,  she  won't  die.  Her  doctor,  an  old  man,  a  spe-  cialist,  has  assured  her  of  this.  &quot;You  have  nothing  to  fear  but  fear  itself&quot;  is  what  he  likes  to  say.  There  is  a  second  medicine  cabinet  over  the  toilet,  and  she  finds  the  Isuprel  there.  Tears  of  panic  stand  in  her  eyes.  Her  chest  heaves.  She  has  been  having  attacks  of  asthma  since  she  was  sixteen.  In  subways,  in  bed,  anywhere,  you  name  it.  Marilyn  sits  down  on  the  toilet  to  breathe  in  with  theinhalator  and  to  compose  herself.  Outside,  her  guests  are  drinking,  and  now  someone  has  put  on  a  phonograph  record-  French  songs  sung  by  a  Greek.  The  naming  ceremony,  meant  to  welcome  the  baby  into  this  world,  will  begin  soon.  Marilyn  was  thirty-seven  years  old  before  she  could  decide  to  have  a  child,  and  even  then  she  wasn't  sure.  Her  pregnancy  was  hell.  Like  having  a  tumor,  along  with  a  bad  cold.  She  burned  with  anxiety,  she  hurt  all  over,  she  sneezed,  she  threw  up.  She  existed  on  skim  milk,  saltines,  natural  cereals,  and  raisins.  Her  daughter  was  born  healthy,  fat,  and  pink,  and  weighed  nine  pounds.  She  held  her  head  up  alertly,  she  played  with  her  fingers,  she  ate  and  slept  well,  she  cooed.  She  seemed  to  have  an  inex-  haustible  fund  of  good  humor,  an  ease  at  being  in  the  world.  Whence  came  this  miracle,  Marilyn  wondered.  Skim  milk?  When  she  rocks  her  baby,  her  body  settles  into  an  easier  rhythm,  she  is  able  to  breathe.  She  is  possessed  of  the  gratitude  of  the  skeptic  confound-  ed;  how  much  more  can  she  ask  of  the  world  than  that?  There  are  people  who  die  of  panic  during  asthma  attacks;  it  seems  that  today  she,  inhalator  to  nostril,  will  not  be  one  of  them.  Jason  Goodman  will  die,  not  of  asthma  but  of  heart  disease.  To  die  at  forty,  Marilyn  likes  to  think,  means  the  punishment  of  God.  One  summer  she  and  Jason  shared  a  loft  on  Greene  Street.  They  had  met  at  the  Art  Students  League.  It  was  hot,  she  went  to  an  office  job,  came  home  at  night  to  paint.  Jason  was  paint-  ing  his  big  abstract  canvases.  Marilyn  painted  herself  in  the  nude-portraits  that  were,  she  knew,  nowhere.  In  the  evenings  they  would  sweep  out  the  place,  he  pushing  a  big  broom,  she  holding  the  dustpan.  They  talked  art  a  lot.  Jason  had  the  authority;  he  was  beginning  to  sell.  One  night  she  made  lemonade,  fresh  lemonade  from  real  lemons,  She  was  tired  and  felt  driven;  the  colors  on  her  canvas  had  turned  muddy,  when  her  vision  had  been  so  clear.  She  burst  out  at  him,  &quot;Jason,  do  you  think  I  should  do  this-do  you  think  I  should  become  a  painter?&quot;  He  sipped  the  drink  she  made  him  and  said,  &quot;Don't  do  it  if  you  can  do  anything  else.&quot;  The  next  day  he  told  her,  &quot;If  you  have  to  ask,  don't  be  one.&quot;  That  was  the  end  of  their  love  af-  fair.  They  went  on  living  together  for  a  while,  but  at  one  stroke  he  had  killed  her  love  for  herself  and  for  him.  She  had  thought  that  he,  who  knew  her  best,  would  see  in  her  what  was  really  there;  he  didn't.  Or  perhaps  he  did,  which  was  worse.  That  September  Marilyn  went  back  to  school-not  to  the  Art  Students  League  but  to  a  college  in  New  Eng-  land  that  taught  advanced  methods  of  encouraging  artistic  creativity  in  chil-  dren  and  young  adults.  If  you  could  not  be  first-rate,  the  logic  went,  why  " b"gamble?  Why  waste  one's  life  on  a  dream?  Jason  also  gave  up  painting,  rather  quickly,  to  go  to  medical  school.  He  became  a  psychiatrist  and  spent  Satur-  day  afternoons  strolling  around  mu-  seums.  One  morning  fifteen  years  later,  Marilyn  woke  up  in  a  cold  sweat;  why  not  waste  one's  life  on  a  dream?  'The  logic  of  this  seemed  inescapable  to  her,  in  the  grey  light,  as  the  reverse  logic  fifteen  years  before  had  been.  She  sat  down  at  the  kitchen  table  and  wept.  Her  life  had  gone  through  her  hands  like  sand.  Now  Jason,  who  had  been  like  a  cruel  god  to  her,  is  dying.  Good.  Let  him  go.  BARBARA  was  glad  Dee-Dee  could  get  away  to  the  country  for  a  few  days.  Jason  said  that  if  Barbara  were  not  &quot;strange&quot;  about  Marilyn  they  could  have  gone  too;  he  would  like  to  be  friends  with  Arthur,  who  is  good  at  tennis.  Which  is  absurd.  Jason  is  not  going  anywhere.  He  is  dying.  He  is  certainly  not  playing  tennis.  Barbara  has  learned  that  Jason's  mind  goes  back  and  forth  in  time.  He  has  confusing  dreams  based  on  old  de-  sires.  He  forgets.  Or  he  dislikes  to  re-  member.  Barbara  is  glad  Dece-Dee  is  away,  because  Jason's  wandering  causes  her  pain.  &quot;Why  are  they  having  a  naming  ceremony  for  the  baby?&quot;  writes  Jason  on  his  note  pad.  &quot;I  don't  know,&quot;  Barbara  writes  on  hers.  &quot;It's  not  Jewish,&quot;  writes  Jason.  &quot;I  think  they  have  become  Unitar-  ians,&quot;  Barbara  writes,  not  because  she  can't  talk  but  because  having  a  con-  versation  with  a  person  who  writes  feels  strange.  Jason  stops  to  think.  &quot;Sounds  like  Marilyn,&quot;  he  writes.  &quot;Dee-Dee  loves  her,&quot;  writes  Bar-  bara,  with  a  little  smile.  Jason  does  not  want  to  think  about  Marilyn,  he  wants  to  think  about  Ar-  thur  Joyce,  who  has  a  good  serve,  whom  he  saw  on  the  court  one  day  last  summer  in  Southampton.  Jason  wants  to  think  about  men  of  vigor  playing  tennis,  the  heat  at  twelve  o'clock,  gulping  F  rescas  in  the  shade.  &quot;Arthur  Joyce  is  boring,  everyone  says  so,&quot;  writes  Barbara,  almost  as  if  she  can  read  his  mind.  &quot;Let  him  be  boring.  I  just  want  him  to  go  on  playing  a  superb  game  of  tennis.&quot;  Barbara  is  frightened,  because  when  Jason  writes  likethis  he  is  writing  like  God-or  as  if  he  were  already  dead  and  could  look  at  things  from  a  posi-  tion  of  detachment.  The  pencil  falls  from  between  his  fingers.  He  lies  back  on  his  pillow  with  a  sigh.  Jason  feels  the  death  he  is  dying  is  not  his  own.  It  is  too  slow,  too  invidious,  to  belong  to  him.  He  is  leaking  away.  JASON\xe2\x80\x99S  dying  has  given  Dee-Dee  a  new  celebrity  at  school.  Marilyn  taught  there  until  last  month.  Perhaps  it  was  because  of  Dee-Dee's  new  ce-  lebrity  that  Marilyn  started  to  like  her;  perhaps  it  was  pity,  Who  knows?  In  any  case,  her  celebrity  does  not  com-  pensate  her  for  her  father's  dying.  Be-  fore  his  attack  he  was  teaching  her  how  to  drive  a  car.  Driving  on  the  beach  at  Southamp-  ton,  he  taught  her  one  of  his  boyhood  songs:  A  mighty  ship  was  the  Gundremar,  proud-  ly  sailing.  proudly  sailing,  O'er  winter  waves  she  adventures  far,  northward  hailing,  northward  hailing  ...  Loud  crash  of  rock  on  the  shattered  prow  And  down  beneath  the  wave  a  ship  shall  bow  Unreturning,  unreturning.  Dce-Dee  doesn't  like  to  stay  in  the  dark  apartment  with  her  parents.  She  has  nothing  to  do  there.  Every  time  she  leaves  she  wonders,  Will  it  happen  be-  fore  I  get  back?  Recently  she  said  to  her  mother,  &quot;I  would  like  to  spend  all  day  with  my  daydreams.&quot;  Barbara  looked  shocked,  as  if  this  child  of  hers  were  slipping  over  the  line.  &quot;Why  do  you  want  to  do  that?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know,  it  would  be  fun.&quot;  Dcc-Dee  has  a  crowded  schedule,  and  the  only  time  she  has  to  daydream  is  going  home  from  school  on  the  Fifth  [REDACTED]  bus,  where  she  dreams  most  often  of  being  in  4a6170616e,  lying  on  a  straw  mat  on  a  shining,  polished  floor.  Rain  on  a  tin  roof,  or  the  hush  of  a  garden.  The  sharp,  cool  notes  of  an  instrument  whose  name  she  does  not  know.  Dee-Dee  knows  her  dreams  are  the  best  part  of  her,  even  if  some  of  them  are  childish.  She  will  drink  tea  with  the  4a6170616eese;  they  will  sit  in  a  circle  and  recite  haiku.  Dece-Dee  realizes  that  her  father  once  knew  Marilyn  very  well,  and  that  her  mother  prefers  not  to  know  Marilyn  at  all.  None  of  this  bothers  her,  As  far  as  she  is  concerned,  noth-  ing  very  interesting  could  have  hap-  pened  before  she  was  born.  She  feels  new.  She  is  flushed  and  happy  now,  her  breasts  bouncing  up  and  down  be-  neath  her  sweater  as  the  guests  come  through  the  line,  taking  cake  and  cof-  fee.  'The  bearded  young  man  from  the  Ethical  Culture  Society  has  held  " b"the  baby  and  named  her  Ariana,  and  everyone,  for  some  reason,  laughed.  There  is  a  chocolate  cake  and  a  mocha  walnut,  and  Dee-Dee,  dipping  a  knife  in  water,  offers  slices.  [REDACTED]  and  Heather  are  coming  through  the  line.  [REDACTED]  sees  Dee-Dee  and  winks.  Dee-Dee  likes  Connie;  of  all  the  adults  she  knows  he  is  the  least  grown-  up.  The  guests  take  their  coffee  and  cake  andgo  outside  to  stand  on  the  rocky  lawn  and  talk  in  the  dazzle  of  sun.  From  the  darkness  of  the  kitchen  Dee-Dee  can  see,  in  the  distance,  a  flight  of  birds.  For  her,  everything  merges.  She  is  sure  that  the  shape  of  a  wing  and  the  gesture  of  a  handmust  have  spiritual  meaning.  She  knows  what  the  wonders  of  the  world  must  be,  without  having  seen  them.  Time  and  experience  will  darken  her,  but,  standing  at  the  counter  in  the  kitchenserving  cake,  she  does  not  know  that  yet,  and  neither  does  the  guest  taking  the  plate  from  her  hands.  He  sees  only  a  fat  girl  in  a  long  gypsy  skirt  and  bracelets,  with  the  china-blue  eyes  of  the  young.  &quot;DRAW  ME,&quot;  those  eyes  say.  &quot;Accept  me,  take  me.&quot;  Dee-Dee  doesn't  want  this  day  to  end.  She  doesn't  want  the  sun  to  go  down.  She  wants  to  be  looked  at  with  theface  of  love.  CONRAD  and  Heather  take  their  cof-  fee  in  mugs  and  their  slabs  of  mocha-walnut  cake  on  party  plates  down  to  the  brook-the  shallow  part,  where  the  watercress  grows.  'They  sit  down  on  a  big  rock  and  take  off  their  shoes.  &quot;Fatness  triumphs,  [REDACTED]  says, eating  his  cake.  Heather  is  suddenly  moved  to  mark  the  occasion  with  a  dance.  She  sweeps  off  her  halter  with  a  grand  gesture,  baring  her  breasts  to  the  sun.  Singing,  she  skips  in  and  out  among  the  stones.  [REDACTED]  applauds,  but  he  is  embar-  rassed.  She  has  studied  her  freedom  somewhere;  it  is  not  the  real  thing.  When  she  sits  down  and  wipes  her  wet  feet  with  her  scarf,  she  asks  him,  &quot;Are  you  depressed?&quot;  He  looks  at  her.  Her  eyes  have  gone  wide  with  sympathy;  her  lips  pout.  Not  only  does  she  not  have  innocence,  she  is  not  a  good  enough  actress  to  call  up  from  within  herself  a  vestige  of  the  quality.  &quot;Yes,  I'm  depressed.  My  friend  is  going  to  die.&quot;  A  leaf  falls  into  the  water.  &quot;Do  you  know  what  depresses  me  most  about  the  situation?  Not  that  he's  going  to  die.&quot;  &quot;What?&quot;  &quot;That  I  felt  glee  when  I  heard  the  news.  Glee  that  it  wasn't  me.&quot;  &quot;No  one  wants  to  die,  [REDACTED].&quot;  &quot;Do  you  know  what  the  worst  words  are  in  the  English  language?  They  are  &quot;impersonal  and  'random,'  &quot;  [REDACTED]  shouts.  They  walk  up  the  bank  that  slopes  away  from  the  brook.  [REDACTED]  thinks     -Davin  St.  Jonn  of  how  wasted  Jason  looked  in  the  hospital,  and  how  desperately  he  had  wanted  him  to  say  something.  Any-  thing.  What  he  had  wanted  from  Ja-  son  was  one  true  moment,  a  match  struck  in  the  dark.  Heather  puts  her  halter  on  as  they  walk.  They  move  through  fields  and  woods,  Heather  singing,  la-la-la.  The  sun  drifts  lower  through  the  trees.  At  [REDACTED]'s  house  he  goes  inside  to  get  glasses  and  a  bottle.  They  sit  on  the  stone  terrace  drinking  brandy.  [REDACTED]  is  glum.  &quot;Don't  think  about  it,&quot;  Heather  " b"says.  &quot;I  had  a  horse  once  who  died.&quot;  &quot;A  horse?&quot;  &quot;Of  cancer  of  the  mouth.  And  don't  look  at  me  like  that.  A  person  can  love  a  horse.  I  probably  loved  that  horse  more  than  you  do  your  friend,  right?&quot;  HEN  Barbara  comes  in  to  change  his  sheets,  Jason  tells  her  that  when  he  is  dead  she  should  eat  his  brains,  as  they  supply  an  abundance  of  thiamine,  niacin,  riboflavin,  phosphorus,  and  Vitamin  Bs.  &quot;What  do  I  need  your  brains,&quot;  says  Barbara.  &quot;I  can  get  all  that  at  the  health-food  store.&quot;  &quot;One  has  to  be  good  for  thing,&quot;  he  says.  Barbara  thinks,  You  could  pass  a  compliment  once  or  twice  in  your  life.  You  could  tell  me  that  even  if  you  can't  love  me  now,  you  did  love  me  once,  in  the  beginning.  ...  But  he  won't.  Instead  he  says,  almost  every  night,  &quot;You  are  an  asshole.  Your  mother  is  an  asshole.  Your  father  is  an  asshole.  I  am  lostin  a  den  of  ass-  holes.&quot;  Because  he  is  dying  he  thinks  he  can  forget  civility,  decorum.  What  an  about-face  from  a  man  who  always  wanted  to  be  urbane!  A  man  whose  favorite  author  was  George  Bernard  Shaw!  A  man  who  had  all  his  shirts  custom-made  and  collected  Cretan  coins!  Now  his  legs  are  all  but  useless,  his  breathing  is  shallow,  he  cannot  eat.  She  tries  feeding  him  spinach  and  car-  rots,  but  the  carrots  fall  on  the  sheer.  &quot;[REDACTED]  came  to  see  me,&quot;  he  gasps,  ignoring  the  carrots  and  the  work  she  has  to  do  cleaning  up  after  him.  &quot;He  thought  I  would  tell  him  my  experi-  ences  as  a  dying  man.  But  he  won't  get  the  truth  from  mme.&quot;  Pause  for  breath.  &quot;Do  you  know  why,  Barby?&quot;  some-  &quot;Don't  talk  anymore,  Jason.  Your  face  is  blue.&quot;  &quot;Because  Con  is  so  damn  competi-  tive.&quot;  A  pause.  Breathing.  &quot;He'll  de-  cide  it's  my  fault  that  I  died.&quot;  When  Jason  smiles  one  of  his  ironic  smiles,  the  only  smile  he  has  left,  there  is  something  about  the  beaked  nose  that  reminds  her  of  her  aunt  from  Schenectady.  His  ribs  can  be  counted.  The  drawstring  that  holds  up  his  pajamas  can  be  wrapped  around  his  waist  twice.  &quot;All  my  friends,&quot;  he  rasps,  &quot;will  go  around  telling  everyone  they  know  they  had  a  friend  who  died  at  forty.  They'll  talk  about  my  balloon.&quot;  Barbara  thinks,  What  does  he  care  what  people  say  anymore?  Isn't  it  time  for  him  to  stop  it?  She  would  prefer  him  to  lie  quietly,  composed.  There  are  injections  forthe  pain,  which  he  has  refused.  Speaking  has  exhausted  him.  He  turns  his  face  away,  on  the  pillow.  She  knows  he  won't  talk  anymore  this  evening;  the  strain  has  been  too  much.  Good.  Barbara  sits  quietly,  doing  her  needlework.  After  so  many  months,  she  no  longer  has  any  heart  for  his  dying.  She  is  like  the  woman  who  saw  4974616c79  and  said  from  her  gondola,  &quot;Let  it  sink.&quot;  The  twilight  turns  into  evening.  Ja-  son  sleeps,  breathing  with  his  mouth  open.  Barbara  smokes  a  cigarette,  and  watches  the  lights  coming  on  in  the  Park.  At  about  nine  o'clock  Jason  wakes.  Some  color  has  returned  to  his  face.  He  takes  a  sip  of  water.  She  wants  to  bring  him  the  bedpan,  but  his  face  twists  when  she  suggests  it.  Refusing  her  arm,  he  shuffles  off  to  the  bathroom.  His  shoulders  are  bent,  he  concentrates.  The  door  closes.  Bar-bara,  in  her  chair  by  the  window,  lights  another  cigarette.  In  a  minute  she  hears  him  fall,  She  jumps  up,  the  ciga-  rette  falling;  shehas  to  stamp  it  out.  She  is  running,  she  runs.  In  the  bath-  room,  what  happened  is  clear:  Jason  sat  down  on  the  toilet,  rose  for  some  reason,  and  fell.  The  force  of  what-  ever  it  was  that  took  him  has  toppled  him  to  the  floor.  His  pajamas  lie  around  his  ankles,  his  legs  are  bent,  his  cheek  lies  against  the  cold  tile.  His  eyes  are  staring,  but  he  cannot  see.  Blood  comes  from  the  mouth.  She  runs  to  get  her  camera.  In  his  final  position,  solidly  dead,  Jason  is  oven-ready,  a  chicken  trussed  for  the  great  event.  Barbara  will  make  her  own  event.  What  she  understands  are  the  days  to  come  of  hypocrisy,  the  past  of  obligation.  With  her  camera  she  will  control  the  moment-the  moment  will  not  control  her.  IGHT  in  the  country.  Dishes  choke  the  dishwasher.  Piles  of  plastic  bags  filled  with  garbage  lie  wait-  ing  to  be  taken  back  to  the  city  in  the  station  wagon,  as  there  is  a  local  ordi-  nance  against  burning.  Arthur  is  out  on  the  deck  watering  his  geraniums  under  the  deck  lights.  Dee-Dee  is  fast  asleep  in  the  small  downstairs  room.  Marilyn  lies  in  bed  upstairs  with  the  baby,  dreaming  a  beautiful  dream.  Although  nightmares  remain  very  clear  in  her  consciousness,  dreams  in  which  wishes  are  fulfilled  are  always  vague.  She  wakes  up  smiling,  and  goes  into  the  bathroom  to  wash  her  face.  What  remains  vivid  from  her  fantasy  is  the  idea  of  a  studio,  a  big  white-  washed  room  with  walls  for  paintings  as  big  as  she  could  make  them.  Works  ofthe  body  and  spirit  as  much  as  any  child;  splashes  of  color;  a  clear  north  " b"ight.  I  n  this  studio  she  will  be  ruthless  in  h  er  play;  la  ying  out  her  colors,  stretching  canvas,  she  will  hu  m  and  she  will  sing.  Thinking  about  the  party  this  afternoon,  she  realizes  tha  t  it  was  a  mistake.  The  new  energy  she  is  aware  of  does  not  lend  i  tself  to  cere-  mony  or  sharing.  How  to  explain  this?  People  would  laugh,  especially  women.  She  has  to  take  hers  elf  as  a  special  case,  a  bit  eccentric.  Other  women  having  babies  do  not  come  in  to  this  richness  of  life.  The  celebration  s  hould  have  been  private,  for  herself  alone.  This  afternoon  she  had  walked  among  her  guests,  bored.  Annoye  d  by  the  conventional  attitudes,  the  c  hatter  .  What  she  w  ants  above  all,  and  feels  c  lose  enough  to  now,  is  a  life  lived  nearer  the  bone.  In  the  living  room  Arthur  is  r  eadin  g  the  paper,  sitting  in  the  bentwood  rocker,  smoking  his  pipe.  His  wife  comes  down  to  tell  him,  &quot;I  am  going  to  be  a  painter,  Arthur,  if  it  takes  me  forty  years.&quot;  He  nods;  it  is  not  a  statement  that  requires  one  to  respond.  &quot;And  I'll  have  big  ambitions.  No  one  will  tell  me,  'Now  darling,  because  you're  a  woman,  your  experience  is  small,  so  your  mind  has  to  be.&quot;  &quot;  &quot;Selling?&quot;  &quot;I'll  sell,&quot;  says  Marilyn.  Arthur  gravely  nods.  She  comes  to  kiss  himand  tilt  him  back  in  his  chair.  &quot;I  love  you,&quot;  she  says.  With-  out  him  she  would  have  nothing.  He  is  her  bread,  her  staff  of  life.  He  has  always  believed  that  nothing  is  too  good  for  her,  and  he  has  always  been  right.  They  sit  with  their  arms  around  each  other.  &quot;I  have  enough  money  saved,&quot;  Marilyn  says.  &quot;Enough  to  finance  myself  for  a  year  or  two.  Then  we'll  see.  I'll  get  a  big  place,  so  that  the  baby  can  crawl  around  with-  out  bothering  me.&quot;  &quot;And  when  she  walks?&quot;  &quot;Ill  walk  her  right  down  to  the  child-care  center,&quot;  says  Marilyn.  Too  excited  to  sleep,  she  goes  back  to  the  bedroom,  to  look  down  at  her  child.  We  are  going  to  have  a  lovely  time  together,  she  thinks.  The  child's  eyes  open;  recognizing  her  mother  in  the  shadows,  she  smiles.  &quot;You're  a  gen  ius,  &quot;  breathes  Marilyn.  Swee  ping  he  r  u  p,  she  carries  her  to  the  living  room.  &quot;Look  at  this  marvellous  thing.&quot;  &quot;Shall  we  dance?&quot;  says  Arthur,  arms  outstretched.  Wrappe  d  in  her  white  bl  ank  et  ,  the  baby  whirls  calmly,  eye  s  wide.  What  can  she  see?  H  er  parents,  dishevelled  and  smiling?  The  moon,  beyond  the  black  trees?  The  path  of  the  moon-  l  ight,  falling  across  the  new  wood  floor?  "