 b"I  WAS  born  on  the  first  day  of  the  second  month  of  the  last  year  of  the  First  World  War,  a  Friday.  Testimony  abounds  that  during  the  first  year  of  my  life  I  never  smiled.  I  was  known  as  the  baby  whom  nothing  and  no  one  could  make  smile.  Every-  one  who  knew  me  then  has  told  me  so.  They  tried  very  hard,  singing  and  bouncing  me  up  and  down,  jumping  around,  pulling  faces.  Many  times  I  was  told  this  later  by  my  family  and  their  friends,  but,  anyway,  I  knew  it  at  the  time.  You  will  shortly  be  hearing  ofthat  new  school  of  psychology-or  maybe  you  have  heard  of  it  already-which,  after  long  and  far-adventuring  re-  search  and  experiment,  has  established  that  all  of  the  young  of  the  human  species  are  born  omniscient.  Babies,  in  their  waking  hours,  know  everything  that  is  going  on  everywhere  in  the  world;  they  can  tune  into  any  con-  versation  they  choose,  switch  on  to  any  scene.  We  have  all  experienced  this  power.  It  is  only  after  the  first  year  that  it  is  brainwashed  out  of  us,  for  it  is  demanded  ofus  by  our  immediate  environment  that  we  grow  to  beof  use  to  it  in  a  practical  way.  It  is  not  a  new  theory.  Poets  and  philosophers,  as  usual,  havebeen  there  first.  But  scientific  proof  is  now  ready  and  to  hand.  Any  day  now,  it  will  be  given  to  the  world,  and  the  world  will  be  convinced.  Let  me,  therefore,  get  my  word  in  first,  because  I  feel  pretty  sure,  now,  about  the  authenticity  of  my  remem-  brance  of  things  past.  My  autobiogra-  phy,  as  I  very  well  perceived  at  the  time,  started  in  the  very  worst  year  that  the  world  had  ever  seen  so  far.  Apart  from  being  born  bedridden  and  toothless,  unable  to  raise  myself  on  the  pillow  or  utter  anything  but  farmyard  squawks  or  police-siren  wails,  I  was  further  depressed  by  the  curious  be-  havior  of  the  two-legged  mammals  around  me.  'There  were  those  black-  dressed  people,  females  of  the  species  to  which  I  appeared  to  belong,  saying  they  had  lost  theirsons.  I  slept  a  great  deal.  Let  them  go  and  find  theirsons.  It  was  like  the  special  pin  for  my  nap-  pies,  which  my  mother,  or  some  other  hoverer  dedicated  to  my  care,  was  al-  ways  losing.  'These  careless  women  in  black  lost  their  husbands  and  their  brothers.  Then  they  came  to  visit  my  mother  and  clucked  and  crowed  over  my  cradle.  I  was  not  amused.  &quot;Babies  never  really  smile  till  they're  three  months  old,&quot;  said  my  mother.  &quot;They're  not  supposed  to  smile  till  they're  three  months  old.&quot;  My  brother,  aged  six,  marched  up  and  down  with  a  toy  rifle  over  his  shoulder:  The  grand  old  Duke  of  York  He  had  ten  thousand  men;  He  marched  them  up  to  the  top  of  the  hill  And  he  marched  them  down  again.  And  when  they  were  up,  they  were  up,  And  when  they  were  down,  they  were  down,  And  when  they  were  neither  down  nor  up,  They  were  neither  up  nor  down.  &quot;Just  listen  to  him!&quot;  the  women  would  say.  &quot;Look  at  him  with  his  rifle!&quot;  WAS  nine  days  old  when  [REDACTED]  stopped  fighting.  I  tuned  in  to  the  Czar-a  prisoner,  with  the  rest  of  his  family-since  evidently  the  coun-  try  had  put  him  off  his  throne  and  there  had  been  a  revolution  not  long  before  I  was  born.  Everyone  was  talking  about  it.  &quot;Nothing  would  ever  induce  me  to  sign  the  treaty  of  Brest-Litovsk,&quot;  the  Czar  said  to  his  wife.  Nobody  had  asked  him  to.  At  this  point,  I  was  sleeping  twenty  hours  a  day  to  get  my  strength  up.  And,  from  what  I  discerned  in  the  other  four  hours  of  the  day,  I  knew  I  was  going  to  need  it.  The  Western  Front,  on  my  frequency,  was  sheer  blood,  mud,  dismembered  bodies,  blis-  tering  crashes,  hectic  flashes  of  light  in  the  night  skies,  explosions,  total  terror.  Since  it  was  plain  I  had  beenborn  into  a  bad  moment  in  the  history  of  the  world,  the  future  bothered  me,  unable  as  I  was  to  raise  my  head  from  the  pil-  lowand  as  yet  only  twenty  inches  long.  &quot;I  truly  wish  I  were  a  fox  or  a  bird,&quot;  D.  H.  Lawrence  was  writing  to  some-  body.  Dreary  old  creeping  Jesus.  I  fell  asleep.  Red  sheets  of  flame  shot  across  the  sky.  It  was  the  twenty-first  of  March,  the  forty-ninth  day  of  my  life,  and  the  German  spring  offensive  had  started  be-  fore  my  morning  feed.  Infinite  slaugh-  ter.  I  scowled  at  the  scene,  and  made  an  effortto  kick  out.  But  the  attempt  was  feeble.  Furious,  and  impatient  for  some  strength,  I  wailed  for  my  feed.  The  grand  old  Duke  of  York  He  had  ten  thousand  men  ...  I  never  heard  a  sillier  song.  Over  in  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED],  the  people  were " b"starving,  freezing,  striking,  rioting  and  velling  in  the  streets.  In  [REDACTED],  ev-  eryone  was  bustling  to  work  and  mut-  tering  that  it  was  time  the  whole  damn  business  was  over.  The  big  people  around  me  bared  their  teeth;  that  meant  a  smile,  it  meant  they  were  pleased  or  amused.  They  spoke  of  ration  cards  for  meat  and  sugar  and  butter.  &quot;Where  will  it  all  end?&quot;  they  asked.  I  went  to  sleep.  I  woke  and  tuned  into  Bernard  Shaw,  who  was  telling  someone  to  shut  up.  I  switched  over  to  Joseph  Conrad,  who,  strangely  enough,  was  saying  precisely  the  same  thing.  I  still  didn't  think  it  worth  a  smile,  al-  though  it  was  expected  of  me  any  day  now.  I  got  on  to  [REDACTED].  Women  draped  in  black  huddled  and  chattered  in  their  harems.  Yalk-yak-yak.  This  was  boring,  soI  came  back  to  home  base.  In  and  out  came  and  went  the  women  in  British  black.  My  mother's  brother,  dressed  in  his  uniform,  came  coughing.  He  had  been  poison-gassed  in  the  trenches.  &quot;Tout  le  monde  &amp;  la  bataille!&quot;  declaimed  Marshal  Foch,  the  old  swine.  He  was  now  Commander-  in-Chief  of  the  Allied  Forces.  My  un-  cle  coughed  from  deep  within  his  lungs,  never  to  recover  but  destined  to  return  to  the  front.  His  brass  buttons  gleamed  in  the  firelight.  I  weighed  twelve  pounds  by  now;  I  stretched  and  kicked  for  exercise,  seeing  that  I  had  a  life-  time  before  me,  coping  with  this  crowd.  I  took  six  feeds  a  day  and  kept  most  of  them  down  by  the  time  the  Vindictive  was  sunk  in  Ostend  Harbor,on  which  day  I  kicked  with  special  vigor  in  my  bath.  In  [REDACTED],  the  conscripted  soldiers  leapfrogged  over  the  dead  on  the  ad-  vance  and  littered  the  fields  with  limbs  and  hands,  or  drowned  in  the  mud.  The  strongest  men  on  all  fronts  were  dead  before  I  was  born.  Now  the  sen-  tries  used  bodies  for  barricades  and  the  fighting  men  were  unhealthy  from  the  start.  I  checked  my  toes  and  my  fin-  gers,  knowing  I  was  going  to  need  them.  &quot;The  Playboy  of  the  Western  World&quot;  was  playing  at  the  Court  Theatre  in  [REDACTED],  but  occasionally  I  beamed  over  to  the  House  of  Com-  mons,  which  made  me  drop  off  gen-  tly  to  sleep.  Generally,  I  preferred  the  Western  Front,  where  one  got  the  true  state  of  affairs.  It  was  essen-  tial  to  know  the  worst,  blood  and  ex-  plosions  and  all,  for  one  had  to  be  pre-  pared,  as  the  Boy  Scouts  said.  Virginia Woolf  yawned  and  reached  for  her  diary.  Really,  I  preferred  the  Western  Front.  In  the  fifth  month  of  my  life,  I  could  raise  my  head  from  my  pillow  and  hold  it  up,.  I  could  grasp  the  ob-  jects  that  were  held  out  to  me.  Some  of  these  things  rattled  and  squawked.  I  gnawed  on  them  to  get  my  teeth  started.  &quot;She  hasn't  smiled  yet?&quot;  said  the  dreary  old  aunties.  My  mother,  on  the  defensive,  saidI  was  probably  one  of  those  late  smilers.  On  my  wave-  length,  Pablo  Picasso  was  getting  mar-  ried,  and  early  in  that  month  of  July  the  Silver  Wedding  of  King  George  V  and  Queen  Mary  was  celebrated  in  joyous  pomp  at  St.  Paul's  Cathedral.  They  drove  through  the  streets  of  [REDACTED]  with  their  children.  Twenty-  five  years  of  domestic  happiness.  A  lot  of  fuss  and  ceremonial  handing  over  of  swords  went  on  at  the  Guildhall,  where  the  King  and  Queen  received  a  check  for  fifty-three  thousand  pounds  to  dis-  pose  offor  charity,  as  they  thought  fit.  Tout  le  monde  &amp;  la  bataille!  In-  come  tax  in  England  had  reached  six  shillings  in  the  pound.  Everyone  was  talking  about  the  Silver  Wedding,  and  ten  days  later  the  Czar  and  his  family,  now  in  [REDACTED],  were  invited  to  descend  to  a  little  room  in  a  basement.  Crack,  crack  went  the  guns;  screams,  and  blood  all  over  the  place,  and  that  was  the  end  of  the  Romanovs.  I  flexed  my  muscles.  &quot;A  fine  healthy  baby,&quot;  said  the  doctor,  which  gave  me  much  satisfaction.  Tout  le  monde  &amp;  la  bataille!  That  included  my  gassed  uncle.  My  health  had  improved  to  the  point  where  I  was  able  to  crawl  in  my  playpen.  Bertrand  Rus-  sell  was  still  cheerily  in  prison  for  writ-  ing  something  seditious  about  pacifism.  When  I  tuned  in,  as  usual,  to  the  front  lines,  it  looked  as  if  the  Ger-  mans  were  winning  all  the  battles  yet  losing  the  war.  And  so  it  was.  The  upper-income  peo-  ple  were  upset  about  the  income  tax  at  six  shillings  to  the  pound.  But  all  women  over  thirty  got  the  vote.  &quot;It  seems  a  long  time  to  " b"wait,&quot;  said  one  of  my  drab  old  aunts,  aged  twenty-two.  The  speeches  in  the  House  of  Commons  always  sent  me  to  sleep,  which  was  why  I  missed,  at  the  actual  time,  a  certain  oration  by  Mr.  As-  quith  following  the  Armi-  stice  on  November  11th.  Mr.  Asquith  was  a  greatly  esteemed  former  Prime  Minister,  later  to  be  an  earl,  andhad  been  ousted  by  Mr.  Lloyd  George.  I  clearly  heard  Asquith,  in  private,  refer  to  Lloyd  George  as  &quot;that  damned  Welsh  goat.&quot;  The  Armistice  was  signed,  and  I  was  awake  for  that.  I  pulled  myself  onto  my  feet  with  the  aidof  the  bars  of  my  cot.  My  teeth  were  coming  through  very  nicely,  in  my  opinion,  and  well  worth  all  the  trouble  I  was  put  to  in  bringing  them  forth.  I  weighed  twenty  pounds.  On  all  the  world's  fighting  fronts,  the  men  killed  in  action  or  dead  of  wounds  numbered  8,538,315,  and  the  warriors  wounded  and  maimed  were  21,219,452.  With  these  figures  in  mind,  I  sat  up  in  my  high  chair  and  banged  my  spoon  on  the  table.  One  of  my  mother's  black-  draped  friends  recited:  I  have  a  rendezvous  with  Death  At  some  disputed  barricade,  When  Spring  comes  back  with  rustling  shade  And  apple-blossoms  fill  the  air-  I  have  a  rendezvous  with  Death  When  Spring  brings  back  blue  days  and  fair.  Most  of  the  poets,  they  said,  had  been  killed.  EXT  February,  on  my  first  birth-  day,  there  was  a  birthday  cake  with  one  candle.  Lots  of  children  and  their  elders.  The  war  had  been  over  two  months  and  twenty-one  days.  &quot;Why  doesn't  she  smile?&quot;  My  brother  was  to  blow  out  the  candle.  The  elders  were  talking  about  the  war  and  the  political  situation.  Lloyd  Georgeand  Asquith,  Asquith  and  Lloyd  George.  I  remembered  re-  cently  having  switched  on  to  Mr.  As-  quith  at  a  private  party  where  he  had  been  drinking  a  lot.  He  was  playing  cards,  and  when  he  came  to  cut  the  cards  he  tried  to  cut  a  large  box  of  matches  by  mistake.  On  another  oc-  casion,  I  had  seen  him  putting  his  arm  around  a  lady's  shoulder  in  a  Daimler  motorcar,  and  generally  behaving  to-  ward  her  in  a  very  friendly  fashion.   Strangely  enough,  she  said,  &quot;If  you  don't  stop  this  nonsense  immediately  I'll  order  the  chauffeur  to  stop  and  I'll  get  out.&quot;  Mr.  Asquith  replied,  &quot;And  pray,  what  reason  will  you  give?&quot;  The  guests  arrived  for  my  birthday.  It  was  sosad,  said  one  of  the  black  widows,  so  sad  about  Wilfred  Owen,  who  was  killed  so  latein  the  war,  and  she  quoted  from  a  poem  of  his:  What  passing-bells  for  these  who  die  as  cattle?  Only  the  monstrous  anger  of  the  guns.  The  children  were  squealing  and  toddling  around.  One  was  sick  and  another  wet  the  floor.  All  was  mopped  up.  I  banged  my  spoon  on  the  table  of  my  high  chair.  Someone  was  quoting:  But  I've  a  rendezvous  with  Death  At  midnight  in  some  flaming  town,  When  Spring  trips  north  again  this  year,  And  I  to  my  pledged  word  am  true,  I  shall  not  fail  that  rendezvous.  More  parents  and  children  arrived.  One  stout  man,  who  was  warming  his  behind  at  the  fire,  said,  &quot;I  always  think  those  words  of  Asquith's  after  the  Ar-  mistice  were  so  apt.&quot;  They  brought  the  cake  close  to  my  high  chair  for  me  to  see,  with  the  can-  dle  shining  and  flickering  above  the  pink  icing.  &quot;A  pity  she  never  smiles,&quot;  said  one  aunt.  &quot;She'll  smile  in  time,&quot;  said,  obviously  upset.  &quot;What  Asquith  told  the  House  of  Commons  just  after  the  war,&quot;  said  that  '  my  mother  stout  gentleman  with  his  backside  to  the  fire.  &quot;So  apt,  what  Asquith  said.  He  said  that  the  war  has  cleansed  and  purged  the  world,  by  God!  I  recall  his  actual  words.  'All  things  have  become  new.  In  this  great  cleansing  and  purg-  ing  it  has  been  the  privilege  of  our  country  to  play  her  part.&quot;  &quot;  That  did  it.  I  broke  into  a  decided  smile,  and  everyone  noticed  it,  con-  vinced  that  it  was  provoked  by  the  fact  that  my  brother  had  blown  out  the  candle  on  the  cake.  &quot;She  smiled!&quot;  my  mother  exclaimed.  And  everyone  was  clucking  away  about  how  I  was  smil-  ing.  For  good  measure,  I  crowed  like  a  demented  raven.  &quot;My  baby's  smil-  ing!&quot;  said  my  mother.  &quot;It  was  the  candle  on  her  cake,&quot;  they  said.  The  cake  be  damned.  Since  that  time  I  have  grown  to  smile  quite  nat-  urally,  like  any  other  healthy  and  house-trained  person,but  when  I  real-  ly  mean  a  smile,  deeply  felt  from  the  core,  then  to  all  intents  and  purposes  it  comes  in  response  to  the  words  uttered  in  the  House  of  Commons  after  the  First  World  War  by  the  distinguished,  the  immaculately  dressed,  and  the  late  Mr.  Asquith. "