 b"I  ONCE  asked  the  retired  fly  cop  Dashiell  Hammett,  a  former  Pink-  erton  employee  who'd  switched  to  writing  for  the  pulps,  a  technical  ques-  tion  about  surveillance.  In  his  experi-  ence  as  a  sleuth,  I  inquired,  was  a  per-  son  under  suspicion  ever  conscious  of  being  shadowed?  Hammett  responded  with  an  anecdote.  It  seems  that  a  certain  New  York  jewelry  concern  had  a  drummer  called  Finsterwald-a  Teutonicism  for  &quot;Darkwood&quot;  -whose  honesty  it  had  reason  to  question.  Finsterwald  was  about  to  go  South  on  a  sales  trip,  bearing  two  casesof  valuable  samples  the  firm  believed  he  was  planning  to  steal,  and  Ham-  mett  was  detailed  to  keep  an  eye  on  him.  Conspicuous  for  his  height,  emaci-  ation,  and  snow-white  thatch,  Ham-  mett  was  an  unlikely  choice  for  the  job,  but,  as  it  happened,  all  the  other  operatives  were  out  breaking  strikes  or  retrieving  gold  falcons  or  whatever  gumshoes  of  that  era  busied  themselves  with.  Finsterwald,  closely  followed  by  Hammett,  entrained  for  [REDACTED]  and  on  arrival  there  checked  into  a  ho-  tel.  Hammett  got  a  room  two  doors  away,  ate  dinner  at  an  adjacent  table  in  the  coffee  shop,  and  yawned  in  concert  with  him  in  the  lobby  until  bedtime.  The  next  morning,  the  sales-  man  took  off  fot  Hagerstown,  where  he  and  his  shadow  went  through  the  same  uneventful  routine.  In  the  en-  suing  five  days,  the  pair  progressed  in  succession  to  [REDACTED],  Raleigh,  [REDACTED],  Columbia,  and  [REDACTED].  No-  where  in  his  zigzag  pattern  was  Fin-  sterwald  ever  out  of  Hammett's  sight  for  a  moment  during  waking  hours,  nor  did  he  call  on  a  single  prospect.  His  manner  was  unhurried  and  de-  void  of  the  slightest  hint  of  furtiveness.  Not  onceby  word  or  deed  did  he  exhibit  any  awareness  that  he  was  under  scrutiny.  Midafternoon  on  the  eighth  day  of  the  trip,  according  to  Hammett,  he  was  sitting  in  a  park  in  [REDACTED],  idling  through  a  newspaper  and  ob-  serving  Finsterwald  as  the  latter  dozed  on  a  bench  near-  by.  Distracted  by  some  item  of  unusual  interest  in  the  pa-  per,  he  forgot  his  quarry  for  an  instant.  Suddenly  a  voice  sounded  at  his  elbow.  Finster-  wald,  a  diffident  smile  on  his  face,  was  addressing  him.  &quot;Excuse  me,  but  you  look   familiar.  Haven't  I  seen  you  some-  where  before?&quot;  &quot;Why,  no-not  that  I_  recall,&quot;  Hammett  returned  blandly.  &quot;Strange,&quot;  mused  the  salesman.  &quot;Oh,  well,  probably  a  resemblance  .  ..  Mind  if  I  sit  down  here?&quot;  Hammett  bade  him  do  so,  exchanged  profundities  about  the  beauty  of  Sa-  vannah,  and,  upon  mutual  agreement  that  its  climate,  while  balmy,  aroused  thirst,  accompanied  him  to  a  tavern.  After  several  beers,  Finsterwald  began  oozing  bonhomie.  He  deemed  Ham-  mett  a  capital  fellow,  one  who  knew  a  hawk  from  a  handsaw  and  could  be  relied  on  in  a  pinch.  It  was  only  a  guess,  but  he  felt  intuitively  that  his  companion  might  not  be  averse  to  mak-  ing  a  little  easy  moola.  Affirming  that  his  pores  were  ever  open  for  a  propo-  sition,  Hammett  asked  what  he  had  in  mind.  The  drummer  thereupon  un-  folded  a  complex  scheme  that  involved  stowing  the  jewelry  samples  in  a  [REDACTED]  railroad  checkroom  and  mailing  the  claim  tickets  to  Hammett,  who  would  convey  the  cases  to  afence  in  Zanes-  ville  and  rendezvous  with  him  in  Al-  toona  to  split  the  swag.  Amid  much  cackling,  the  bargain  was  sealed  over  a  couple  of  boilermakers,  and  they  parted-Finsterwald  to  visit  a  Turkish  bath  and  Hammett  to  turn  him  in  at  the  nearest  police  station  for  con-  spiring  to  commit  larceny.  &quot;And  if  I  know  what  goes  on  in  stir,&quot;  Hammett  concluded,  &quot;that  bird  spent  the  next  couple  of  years  scratch-  ing  his  head  and  saying  to  him-  self,  'Jeez,  it  was  foolproof-how  did  theyever  catch  on?  What  did  I  do  wrong?&quot;  &quot;  Any  likelihood  that  I  was  about  to  be  drawn  into  a  similarly  bizarre  situ-ation  was  farthest  from  my  mind  when,  several  weeks  ago,  I  read  a  strik-  ing  report  in  the  London  Times.  &quot;The  [REDACTED]  Germans  are  rapidly  becoming  a  nation  of  shoplifters,&quot;  it  said.  &quot;One  prosperous  businessman  stole,  over  a  long  period,  all  the  food  he  wanted  for  a  party  he  was  giving.  A  titled  woman,  wearing  a  fur  coat  worth  thousands  of  marks,  was  found  to  have  the  lining  stuffed  full  of  stolen  food.  ...  One  man  shopper  took  a  fancy  to  a  frozen  chicken,  and  went  to  the  extraordinary  length  of  concealing  it  in  the  crown  of  his  hat.  He  was  detected  at  the  cash  desk,  but  only  because  he  fell  un-  conscious  while  waiting  to  pay  for  those  goods  he  had  decided  to  declare.  The  frozen  fowl  nesting  on  top  of  his  head  had  slowed  down  the  blood  circulation  to  his  brain.&quot;  Not  long  after  I  read  the  foregoing,  I  happened  to  notice  in  the  Third  Avenue  supermarket  where  I  shop  a  remarkable  person  contemplating  the  showcase  of  frozen  foods.  Gaunt,  well  over  six  feet  tall,  and  chin-whiskered,  he  was  clad  in  a  rusty  Prince  Albert  set  off  by  a  silk  hat  ofthe  type  known  as  a  tile.  Whether  it  was  his  expression  of  deep  melancholy  or  his  posture  as  he  stood  grasping  his  lapels,  he  reminded  me  of  someone,  but  I  could  not  re-  member  who.  Clearly  oblivious  of  my  gaze,he  opened  the  showcase  door  and  withdrew  two  packages-a  Stouffer's  beef  pie  and  a  Sara  Lee  cheesecake.  At  that  juncture,  some  old  gaffer  maneu-  vering  his  wagon  jostled  me.  I  stepped  aside  with  an  apology,  and  when  I  turned  back  the  tall  stranger  had  van-  ished  into  the  detergents  and  soap  powders.  I  assumed  I  had  seen  the  last  of  him,  but  no-on  reaching  the  ex-  press  checkout  lane  I  beheld  him  di-  rectly  ahead.  The  clerk  was  bagging  his  sole  purchase,  a  Teflon  scouring  pad,  and,  mystified,  I  watched  him  exit  through  the  automatic  doors.  Where  were  the  food-  stuffs  he'd  selected,  the  beef  pie  and  cheesecake?  And  who  in  tarnation  was  he?  There  was  an  enigmatic  quality  about  the  man,  an  elusiveness,  apart  from  his  identity,  that  unset-  tled  me.  Had  I  consulted  my  astro-  logical  forecast,  as  I  should  have,  it  would  have  told  me  I  was  entering  a  period  of  sus-  pense,  which  shortly  became  apparent.  'Three  days  thence,  the  counterman  of  a  delicates-  sen  on  Nineteenth  Street  was  slicing  a  quarter  of  Novy  for  me.  The  ambient  air  was  heavy  " b"with  the  fragrance  of  whitefish,  Maatjes  herring,  and  freshly  minted  bagels,  and,  crowded  around  me,  a  bevy  of  dyna-  mite  chicks,  each  lovelier  than  Faye  Dunaway,  awaited  their  turn  with  nostrils  flaring.  All  ofa  sudden,  like  a  chill  wind,  I  felt  an  alien  presence,  and  there  stood  the  same  wraithlike  figure  by  the  frozen-food  locker,  clasping  an  icy  carton  of  wonton  soup  atop  two  packets  of  Chinese  snow  peas  and  water  chestnuts.  I  stared  at  him  for  what  must  have  seemed  an  eternity,  because  the  counterman  loosed  an  enraged  bellow.  &quot;What  next,  Mister,  what  next?&quot;  the  counterman  cried.  &quot;People  are  waiting!&quot;  Yes,  and  they're  famished!&quot;  echoed  one  of  the  beauties.  &quot;What's  eating  you,  chum?  You  look  like  you  seena  ghost.&quot;  She  was  right,  in  a  sense,  for  in  that  instantI  had  witnessed  an  uncanny     " b"sleight-of-hand  performance-the  dis-  appearance  of  all  three  eatables  into  the  man's  uplifted  hat.  By  the  time  I  squirmed  through  the  press,  clutching  my  Novy,  his  only  visible  selection,  a  bar  of  halvah,  had  been  rung  up  on  the  register  and  he  was  speeding  down  the  block.  Burning  to  ascertain  whether  the  refrigeration  would  fell  him  as  it  had  the  kraut  shoplifter,  I  took  off  in  hot  pursuit.  Our  contest  was  unequal;  the  gelid  ice  cap  seemed  to  act  on  him  like  adrenalin,  though  possibly  he  may  have  raised  his  sugar  level  with  the  halvah,  Whatever  the  cause,  I  lost  him  somewhere  near  Gramercy  Park,  but  the  chase  was  not  wholly  unproductive.  In  one  of  several  buildings  where  he  could  have  gone  to  earth,  I  found  a  mailbox  reading  Eban  Locnil.  It  didn't  promise  much  at  first,  but,  thanks  to  a  pipeful  or  two  of  Latakia  and  an  aptitude  for  cryptography,  it  rearranged  itself  into  Abe  Lincoln,  and  I  knew  a  moment  of  elation.  So  that  was  why  the  chap  had  seemed  familiar.  Well,  I  resolved  grimly,  ruct  caelum,  I  was  going  to  discover  how  this  dishonest  Abe  had  flouted  the  most  elementary  laws  of  physiology.  The  opportunity  came  that  Satur-  day,  in  the  hurly-burly  of  weekend  shopping.  Poring  through  the  bins  of  Nussbaum's  Gourmeteria,  on  Second  Avenue,  for  a  breakfast  kipper,  I  over-  heard  a  woman  railing  against  the  rudeness  of  a  customer  who,  she  as-  serted,  had  practically  wrenched  a  broiler  out  of  her  hand.  &quot;He's  some  kind  of  a  poultry  freak,  the  muzzler!&quot;  she  shrilled.  &quot;He's  there  right  now  at  the  meat  counter!  An  old-fashioned  weirdo  in  a  high  hat.&quot;  Sparse  though  it  was,  her  description  warranted  a  rundown,  and  Itiptoed  into  the  next  aisle.  The  sight  that  met  my  eyes  was  well-nigh  past  belief.  Dis-  daining  easy  choices  like  goose  liver  and  chicken  wings,  my  Presidential  doppel-  ginger  was  about  to  execute  a  coupde  th\xc3\xa9datre  by  forcing  a  butterball  turkey  into  his  headpiece.  Providentially,  he  did  not  see  me,and  I  ducked  back.  That  was  all  to  the  good.  If  there  was  to  be  a  confrontation,  I  wanted  it  on  my  own  terms.  &quot;Reach  for  the  sky,  Locnil.&quot;  The  words  I  had  rehearsed  since  quitting  Nussbaum's  sounded  less  puissant  at  the  entrance  of  his  brownstone,  but  they  gained  menace  from  the  briar  pipe  I  jammed  into  his  back.  He  stiffened,  and  before  he  could  resist  I  herded  him  into  the  foyer.  Then  I  did  some  quick  thinking.  If  he  lamped  a  Dunhill  in  my  mitt  instead  of  a  police  special,  the  jig  was  up,  soI  shifted  it  to  my coat  pocket.  I  wasn't  sure  if  he'd  buy  it,  but  he  bought  it.  All  the  way  up  in  the  poky  little  elevator,  he  spoke  only  once.  You  the  fuzz?&quot;  &quot;Uh-uh,  just  someone  who  knows  his  way  around  the  circulatory  system  and  needs  a  few  answers.  This  your  pad?&quot;  He  nodded,  fiddled  with  the  locks,  threw  on  a  switch.  Then,  as  the  room  flooded  with  light,  he  swung  around,  his  eyes  twin  clouded  agates.  &quot;All  right,  what's  bugging  you?&quot;  he  snarled.  &quot;Talk  fast.  I've  got  a  turkey  melting  on  my  head.&quot;  &quot;Boohoo,  you're  breaking  my  heart,&quot;  I  growled.  &quot;Sit  down,  Lincoln,  and  keep  your  hands  on  your  lapels.  That  way  nobody  gets  hurt.&quot;  His  face  fell  apart.  &quot;How  did  you  know  me?&quot;  &quot;I  wasn't  born  yesterday.  Anyway,  there  aren'ttoo  many  gees  around  that  look  like  rail-splitters.  Once  I  ruled  out  Raymond  Massey  and  Arthur  Miller,  there  was  only  one  other  person  you  could  be.&quot;  &quot;Listen,  you,&quot;  he  said,  his  twin  agates  narrowing.  &quot;I  got  a  hunch  you've  been  tailing  me.  I'm  positive  we've  seen  each  other  in  the  past.&quot;  &quot;Maybe  you  were  a  king  in  Babylon  and  I  was  a  Christian  slave,&quot;  I  chaffed  him.  &quot;But  enough  with  the  yocks.  Where  did  you  get  the  idea?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  readyou.  What  idea?&quot;  &quot;Of  wearing  a  heated  wig  on  your  sconce  for  insulation-to  counter-  act  the  deadly  frost  that  you  knew  would  cause  syncope,  from  cerebral  anemia.&quot;  He  figured  the  odds  a  long  moment,  decided  I  had  him.  &quot;You  win,  Doc,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;But  how  did  you  tumble?  Tell  me  where  I  goofed.&quot;  &quot;For  one  thing,  at  the  meat  coun-  ter  in  Nussbaum's.  You  stepped  out  of  character,  my  friend.  The  Great  Emancipator  would  never  have  snatched  a  broiler  from  a  lady.&quot;  &quot;Yeah,  I  guess  I  overplayed  my  hand.  What  else?&quot;  I  flicked  aside  his  muffler,  exposing  the  electric  cord  leading  under  his  hat.  &quot;At  first,  I  thought  you  had  a  can  of  Sterno  up  there,  ora  small  hibachi.  Then  I  spotted  this  when  you  were  heisting  the  gobbler.  That  cinched  it,  Locnil.&quot;  Rarely  have  I  seen  such  desolation  on  a  human  countenance;  staring  out  at  me,  all  pretense  flown,  was  a  mute  hunted  animal.  He  silently  extended  his  wrists.  &quot;O.K.,  I'm  ready.  Let's  go. I  extracted  my  pipe,  tapped  out  the  dottle,  and  rose.  &quot;Smarten  up,  fellow,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  told  you-I'm  not  a  law-  man.  Nor  am  I,  in  spite  of  your  awed  expression,  that  implausible  creation  of  Jacques  Futrelle's,  The  Thinking  Ma-  chine.&quot;  &quot;Then  who  are  you,  in  God's  name?&quot;  he  whimpered.  &quot;Merely  an  insomniac,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;A  reader  of  the  London  Times  who  can't  rest  until  he  solves  their  news  re-  ports.&quot;  And  went  out  the  door.  "