 b"IT  looked  as  if  Cosher  wouldn't come.  Anyway,  I  thought  I'd  wait  a  bit  longer  at  the  side  of  the  empty  road.  I  could  see  both  ends  of  the  vil-  lage  from  where  I  sat.  He  might  come  from  Purvis  Corner,  if  he'd  called  on  his  brother  on  his  way  home  from  work,  but  if  he'd  gone  straight  home,  he'd  come  from  the  lane  by  the  College  Caf\xc3\xa9.  Sometimes  when  I  didn't  wait,  he  came  just  as  I  reached  my  house,  and  then  my  mother  called  me  in.  When  that  happened,  I  used  to  sit  by  my  win-  dow  and  watch  him  acrossthe  road,  giving  cigarettes  to  girls.  Half  an  hour  more,  then,  I'd  give  him.  I  climbed  to  the  top  of  the  tank  traps  and  hung  up-  side  down  from  the  top  pipe.  In  the  classroom,  we  had  a  picture  of  bats  hanging  like  that-three  of  them  in  an  old  dead  tree  that  looked  like  a  dusty  top  hat.  I  imagined  fur  round  my  eyes  as  I  looked  toward  the  beach.  There  was  a  high  bank  of  shingle  between  the  tank  traps  and  the  sea;  I  couldn't  re-  member  what  the  water  looked  like,  be-  cause  the  beachalong  the  south  coast  of  England  had  been  mined  and  closed  seven  years  before,  when  the  war  start-  ed.  I  was  only  three  at  the  time.  At  high  tide  on  a  windy  day,  our  house  was  drenched  with  the  thrown  spray.  Some-  times  we  could  just  glimpse  the  top  of  a  very  big  wave.  Sometimes  the  sea  would  be  so  rough  that  it  blew  up  a  mine  or  two,  and  then  I  wouldn't  go  home,  because  my  father  would  be  cry-  ing  again,  thinking  of  the  day  his  brother  went  to  get  firewood  from  the  bunga-  low  with  the  smashed  windows.  Charlie  Page  had  come  to  our  house  and  told  us  how  the  mine  had  exploded  justas  they  were  leaving  with  their  IT  looked  as  if  Cosher  wouldn't  raw  wood  alcohol  and  lie  about  the  floor  as  if  they  were  dead.  My  father  had  some  in  a  tin  to  wash  paintbrushes.  Cosher  asked  me  to  steal  it  to  trade  for  candy  and  cigarettes,  but  I  wouldn't,  because  I  knew  about  the  paint.  If  he  came  that  evening,  it  would  be  too  late  to  walk  as  far  as  the  billets.  I  was  very  disappointed.  The  sea  was  the  sky  again,  and  I  climbed  down  and  rubbed  away  the  orange  rust  from  my  hands  and  legs.  I  looked  up  the  road,  but  still  he  wasn't  coming.  It  was  summer,  and  the  clocks  had  been  put  on  two  hours.  It  wouldn't  be  dark  for  two  hours  yet,  but  before  long  I'd  have  to  go  in  and  wash  and  go  to  bed  and  watch  the  street  lamp  slowly  grow  stronger  than  the  sunset.  The  lamps  had  been  turned  on  again  a  few  weeks  before.  The  night  they  were  switched  on,  my  father  and  the  neighbors  made  bonfires  with  the  blackout  curtains.  Somebody  had  saved  some  fireworks  since  before  the  war,  and  we  had  to  stand  back  while  they  were  let  off.  Cosher  brought  some  Very  lights  he  had  found  in  the  shipyard.  They  went  higher  than  the  Roman  candles  and  made  twice  as  much  noise.  If  he  came,  we  could  go  to  his  shed  for  half  an  hour  and  look  at  his  collec-  tion.  Only  a  few  ofus  knew  what  was  in  that  padlocked  shed.  The  first  time  I  went  there,  about  a  year  before,  it  was  with  the  Hood  twins,  Reg  and  Jim.  They  were  bigger  than  Cosher,  but  a  year  younger  and  still  at  school.  I  had  to  kneel  down  and  cross  my  heart  never  to  tell  any-  body  about  the  shed.  They  all  pressed  down  with  both  hands  on  my  head  while  I  promised.  They  took  me  in-  side.  Cosher  placed  every  item  of  Ar.  bundles  of  wood.  Charlie  was  \xc2\xa7E|IL|  his  collection,  one  by  one,  on  the  not  ten  yards  away,  and  he  hadn't  206,  bench.  The  cartridges  first.  There  been  touched.  Hanging  there,  I  \xc3\xa9l\xef\xac\x82]  FA  were  two  matchboxes  full  of  pretended  that  the  sky  was  the  sea  and  the  moving  clouds  were  waves.  All  day  in  school  I'd  been  looking  forward  to  seeing  Cosher.  He  wasn't  much  taller  than  I  was,  but  he  was  nearly  fifteen  andhad  left  school  the  previous  summer.  He  shaved  and  smoked  and  swore  and  knew  what  soldiers  did  to  girls  in  the  empty  house  when  it  was  dark.  One  night,  he  said,  he'd  take  me  to  see.  In  my  top  pocket  I  still  had  the  airplane  cards  he'd  given  me  the  day  before.  Cosher  had  the  whole  set,  even  the  rare  Russian  planes.  Most  evenings,  we'd  go  to  the  American  air-  men's  billets  behind  Simpson's  barn  and  beg  for  empty  packets  of  Sweet  Capo-  rals  and  tear  the  airplane  pictures  off  the  back.  I  wouldn't  goon  my  own,  be-  cause  some  of  the  airmen  used  to  drink  tiny  copper  .22  shells,  Forty-  two-he  counted  them.  And  then  two  biscuit  tins  of  mixed  .303s  and  .301s,  most  of  them  dull  but  some  bright  gold  that  he'd  polished  with  Bluebell.  I  knew  all  about  these  shells,  and  thelarger  Bren  and  Sten  car-  tridges,  because  there  were  fifty  rounds  of  each  sort  kept  in  the  corner  cupboard  at  home,  together  with  the  Home  Guard  rifles  and  other  guns  my  father  had.  It  was  the  large  shells  that  I  liked  best,  with  the  thick  brass  rims  at  the  bottom;  Cosher  placed  these  at  the  back  and  arranged  the  smaller  ones  in  de-  scending  order  in  neat  platoons.  Then  he  showed  us  how  to  take  the  bullet  out  ofa  live  shell,  holding  it  in  the  vise  and  easing  the  nipped  bullet  out  with  pin-  cers.  He  did  this  with  several  different kinds  of  shell.  He  tipped  the  cordite  out  of  each  one  onto  a  piece  of  tissue  paper;  sometimes  the  cordite  was  in  little  sticks  like  waxed  matches,  and  sometimes  it  was  in  little  circles  like  confetti.  We  went  outside  and  watched  Cosher  lay  a  trail  with  the  stick  cordite  along  his  garden  path.  He  struck  a  match  and  put  it  to  the  end  one,  and  the  little  bright  flame  raced  almost  as  faras  the  shed  door.  And  then  we  went  in  again,  be-  cause  his  old  mother  was  looking  through  the  curtains,  and  he  bolted  the  door  behind  us  and  showed  usthe  rest.  There  was  a  dummy  hand  grenade  and  a  yellow-finned  smoke  bomb  and  some  black  clips.  And  there  was  an  ostrich  egg  that  his  brother  had  sent  him,  painted  red.  It  had  a  hole  in  the  top  to  pour  the  confetti  cordite  in.  The  stick  cordite  he  kept  in  a  jam  jar.  If  he  came,  we  could  sit  in  the  shed  and  look  at  the  shells  and  talk  about  the  fires  we  used  to  make  and  the  camouflaged  camps  we  erected  near  the  anti-aircraft  guns.  We  still  went  some-  times  to  the  camps,  but  the  guns  had  been  taken  away  and  we  were  allowed  to  go  to  the  deserted  concrete  emplace-  ments;  it  wasn't  so  much  fun  creeping  through  the  long  grass  now.  All  we  ever  found  in  the  ditches  where  the  petrol  cans  used  to  be  were  damp,  ripped  magazines  with  photographs  of  nude  girls.  Cosher  used  to  fold  up  the  pictures  and  put  them  in  his  wallet.  Nothing  was  the  same.  We'd  scoured  the  sites  of  all  the  crashed  planes  near  the  airfield  and  on  the  hills,  but  there  were  no  more  curled  bits  of  aluminum  or  slivers  of  Perspex  to  polish  and  carve  into  brooches  for  our  mothers.  We'd  collected  every  last  strip  of  tinfoil  that  had  been  dropped  for  radar  interfer-  ence,  every  burned-out  incendiary  bomb,  every  propaganda  leaflet,  every  discard-  ed  forage  cap.  The  shed  was  full.  The  petrol  cans  had  to  be  kept  outside.  We  just  sat  in  the  shed,  knowing  the  collection  was  complete.  There  was  nothing  left  to  do  except  go  to  the  bil-  lets  so  that  I  could  get  the  full  set  of  airplane  pictures  to  lay  out  side  by  side  with  Cosher's.  I  only  wanted  three  more,  and  if  he  came  that  evening  he  might  have  them.  I  looked  again  along  the  wide,  empty  road.  Old  Mr.  Eliot,  our  next-door  neighbor,  was  striding  toward  me  with  his  broom  on  his  shoulder,  one  foot  on  each  side  of  the  white  line  in  the  mid-  dle.  There  was  never  any  traffic  now.  All  the  tanks  and  Bren-gun  carriers  and  armored  cars  had  gone.  And  the  private  cars  were  still  in  their  garages  on  soft,  perished  tires.  Mr.  Eliot  was  quiet  these  days  when  he  came  home.  There  was  never  much  for  him  to  " b"sweep  up  on  the  roads,  nothing  for  him  to  com-  plain  about.  The  tanks  used  to  crush  the  curb-  stones,  and  the  convoys  left  him  with  the  job  of  tidying  up,  which  no-  body  else  would  bother  to  do.  Once,  a  German  bomber  crashed  near  the  bridge,  and  it  had  taken  him  a  week  to  clean  the  mud  off  the  road.  When  he  had  gone  past  me,  I  could  see  nobody  else.  ND  then  Cosher  came  into  sight-  unmistakably  Cosher,  on  his  roller  skates,  passing  the  cottages  with  long,  powerful  strides.  But  to-  night  there  was  an  ur-  gency  in  his  skating;  it  was  jerky  and  stabbing,  with  none  of  his  usual  careless  elegance,  none  of  his  tricks  and  flour-  ishes.  When  he  was  near  me,  he  crouched  down  to  glide  up  to  where  I  was  sitting  and  stopped  by  pointing  his  toes  in  and  hanging  round  my  neck.  &quot;'They've  opened  the  beach  at  Chandler's  Corner,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'm  going  to  get  Reg  and  Jim.  Wait  for  us.&quot;  And  off  he  went.  But  they  all  had  skates  and  I  didn't  IfI  waited,  I  knew  they  wouldn't  wait  for  me.  As  soon  as  Cosher  had  got  into  his  stride  again,  making  forthe  Hood  twins'  house,  I  disobeyed  him  for  the  first  time  and  ran  as  fast  as  I  could  away  from  him  toward  Chandler's  Corner.  I  didn't  look  round  as  I  went  past  my  house;  I  knew  my  mother  would  be  watching  for  me.  I  heard  her  call,  but  I  ran  on.  All  the  way  along  the  road,  people  were  coming  out  of  their  houses  and  walking  in  the  direction  of  Chandler's.  I  ran  through  them  and  wouldn't  stop  till  I  saw  the  breach  that  had  been  made  in  the  tank  traps,  but  then  I  walked,  seeing  the  crowds  queuing  up  on  the  shingle  and  filing  past  the  po-  licemen  and  the  soldiers  who  were  pil-  ing  up  the  dismantled  pipes  and  nuts  and  bolts.  I  saw,  too,  boys  in  my  class  at  school,  boys  of  my  age.  We  formed  a  pack  and  pushed  through.  At  the  top  of  the  shingle  bank,  just  through  the  opening,  we  stopped  for  a  second  or  two,  not  knowing  which  way  to  go.  We  looked  at  each  other  and  then  we  laughed-there  was  only  one  way  to  go.  We  ran  straight  toward  the  sea.  The  tide  was  right  out,  Our  shoes  filled  with  little  stones  as  we  half  ran  and  half  slid  down  the  shingle.  When  we  reached  the  sand,  we  kicked  off  our  shoes  and  socks  and  ran  across  the  wormecasts  and  bits  of  seaweed,  and  flung  shells  at  the  wind  and  ground  starfish  under  our  heels.  We  piled  weed  on  our  heads  and  pretended  to  be  Nep-  tune,  kicked  up  the  standing  water,  skimmed  stones,  waded  up  to  our  waists  in  the  sea.  We  found  dead  fish  and  tossed  them  where  the  girls  were  hang-  ing  back  by  the  breakwaters.  We  threw  ourselves  down  and  rolled  over  and  over  until  we  felt  the  wet  through  our  clothes.  We  filled  our  mouths  with  salt  water  from  our  cupped  hands  and  spat  it  out.  We  dug  with  rusks  of  driftwood  and  chased  the  whitebait  over  the  sand  and  into  the  sea.  When  I  was  too  tired  to  do  anything  else  and  it  was  getting  dark,  I  sat  on  the  stones  and  watched  the  birds  whose  names  I  didn't  know.  There  was  a  big,  dark-green  one  that  sat  on  a  stump  in  the  sea  and  kept  div-  ing  in  for  fish.  And  many  little  ones  that  flew  together  low  over  the  water.  I  remember  them  vividly-the  cor-  morants  and  the  sand  martins-and  over  the  bay  the  cliffs  at  Beachy  Head.  I  suppose  I  must  have  sat  there  a  good  half  hour,  growing  up  into  a  boy,  grinding  a  stone  on  a  stone,  pulling  a  yellow  poppy  to  shreds,  watching  the  big  boys,  Reg,  Jim,  and  Cosher,  as  they  walked  on  their  own  along  the  sands.  They  were  carrying  their  silly  skates.  They  called  me,  but  I  wouldn't  follow  them. "