 b"DEAR FRENCHIE:  YOU  sure  are  getting  a  lot  of  ink  in  the  papers  and  trades  these  days  for  a  mere  [REDACTED]  flesh  peddler-or  brain  peddler  in  my  case,  'cause  my  flesh  isn't  worth  much  per  pound  these  days.  Seems  like  every  other  week  I  see  you  mentioned  in  Haber,  at  one  of  her  Super-A  parties.  But  did  you  know  Joyce  has  got  a  Super-Super-A  Group  now?  'The  real  heavies,  and  they  all  entertain  each  other  and  stuff.  You  make  thet  group  and  all  you  have  left  to  hope  for  is  be-  ing  invited  into  the  booth  on  Monday  Night  Football  by  Howie  and  Frank,  and  then  getting  your  own  golf  tourna-  ment,  the  Pierre  Goldfarb  Open.  It  must  be  lonely  at  the  top.  As  for  me,  marooned  inthis  little  town  just  north  of  Mendocino,  the  best  I  can  make  is  what  we  call  our  Triple-B  Group.  Our  parties  are  not  just  BYOB  but  also  BYOW  (Weed)  and  BYOBR  (Brown  Rice).  We  don't  have  Astaire  and  Kelly  doing  impromptus  at  our  parties,  but  we  dohave  a  pretty  fair  dobro  player,  two  Hohner  blues  mouth  organists,  a  veterinarian  who  strums  a  mean  Jew's  harp,  and  seventeen  gui-  tarists,  acoustic  and/or  electric.  When  they  all  play  together,  it  sounds  exactly  like  seventeen  guitars  all  trying  to  play  together.  Down  to  business,  as  you  like  to  say.  (Since  your  kids  probably  read  your  mail,  remember  that  the  following  let-  ter,  dealing  with  mature  subject  mat-  ter,  is  PG-rated.)  May  I  refer  you  to  yours  of  the  16th  inst.,  which  was  in  reply  to  mine  of  the  23rd  ult.,  which  was  in  reply  to  yours  of  the  12th  Thermidor.  Let  me  rehash  the  whole  miserable  scenario.  Crimanentlies,  when  I  decided  to  sell  out  to  the  Nets  I  didn't  realize  it  would  be  so  rough.  Not  just  the  selling  out  but  getting  somebody  to  let  me  sell  out.  I  mean,  I  gave  you  five  dynamite  ideas  for  TV  series,  and  all  you've  given  me  for  feedback  is  a  farrago  of  objec-  tions  from  yourself,  network  brass,  your  wife's  hairdresser,  and  the  relief  bartender  at  the  Continental  Hyatt  on  Sunset  (hereinafter  collectively  re-  ferred  to  in  this  document  as  &quot;They&quot;  and  &quot;Them&quot;  ).  Take  my  dramatic  series  on  dying,  &quot;Passing  On.&quot;  Sort  of  a  &quot;Little  House  on  the  Prairie&quot;  with  a  new  cast  every  week.  As  I  explained,  death  is  by  far  the  most  controversial  and  hottest  subject  in  [REDACTED],  ranking  twenty-  five  shock  points  above  transsexuality,  school  busing,  S  &amp;  M,  and  interracial  cloning.  [REDACTED]  is  just  discovering  death,  man.  So  I  went  along  with  the  network  brains  who  demanded  that  I  maintain  &quot;good  taste&quot;  in  the  show,  even  though  I  kind  of  suspect  that  kicking  off  is  a  bit  in  bad  taste  itself.  I  agreed  not  to  say  &quot;death,&quot;  &quot;dying,&quot;  &quot;deceased,&quot;  &quot;kick  the  bucket,&quot;  &quot;shuffle  off  this  mortal  coil,&quot;  &quot;go  home  feet  first,&quot;  &quot;pop  off  the  hooks,&quot;  &quot;get  offed,&quot;  &quot;turn  up  your  toes,&quot;  &quot;croak,&quot;  &quot;push  up  daisies,&quot;  or  &quot;bite  the  dust,&quot;  or  even  to  indicate  that  anything  peculiar  hap-  pens  to  the  body  when  it  is  placed  a  few  feet  under  the  sod.  We  had  five  scripts  approved  and  had  started  cast-  ing  when  They  suddenly  realized  we'd  have  to  get  a  new  lead  every  week,  and  so  They'd  never  develop  a  big  star  like  Telly  Savalas,  Freddie  Prinze,  or  Valerie  Harper.  As  I  saw  it,  the  show  didn't  call  for  a  star,  because  the  hero  was  Grimley  R.  Thanatos,  who  was  doing  his  bit  each  week  to  keep  things  down  to  Zero  Population  Growth.  Then  take  my  series  about  the  Or-  thodox  Jewish  kid  from  Far  Rockaway  who  quits  his  job  at  H  &amp;  R  Block,  goes  to  496e646961  to  do  the  Katmandu,  Goa  enlightenment  circuit,  becomes  a  Yogi,  and  then  settles  down  out  West  in  Marin  County  (which  is  mostly  a  bunch  of  people  pretending  they're  in  the  Seventh  Chakra  but  who  actually  commute  to  San  Fran  every  day  in  '75  Honda  Civics,  with  stereo  decks  and  air).  No  suspense,  you  say.  No  sus-  pense?  The  guy's  permanently  sus-  pended  nine  feet  off  the  ground  from  doing  Transcendental  Meditation  from  dawn  to  dusk.  I'll  admit  you're  right  in  saying  it's  going  to  be  tough  to  find  an  actor  who  can  do  a  good  full-lotus  headstand  without  looking  as  if  he's  just  swallowed  pulverized  Budweiser  bottles.  I  also  agree  that  using  a  real  Yogi  is  out.  They  have  no  sense  of  time  and  place.  When  you're  on  loca-  tion,  a  real  Yogi  wouldn't  be  late  for  8  a.m.  calls-he  just  wouldn't  be  there.  I  mean,  even  if  he  was  there  ...  But  I  think  we  can  get  around  the  full  lotus  by  having  a  stunt  man  do  it,  and  using  medium  and  long  shots  in  a  half-  lit  room.  Problem  solved.  Then  They  brought  up  the  possibility  of  the  show  becoming  a  hit  and  the  Yogi  life  style  catching  on  with  all  those  young  up-  wardly  mobile  consumers,  and  what  this  would  do  to  our  GNP.  I  mean,  Yogis  don't  have  any  use  for  Camaros,  Anacin,  Right  Guard,  Trac  II,  or  Peanut  Butter-and-Jelly  Koo  Koos.  I  doubt  if  they  even  use  Wheat  Germ  Helper.  The  answer  here  is  we'll  just  have  to  get  a  different  kind  of  sponsor,  like  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  Communist  Party,  the  Universal  Life  Science  Church,  Deaf  Smith  peanut  butter,  or  the  Rosicrucians.  Maybe  even  Technocra-  cy.  (Are  they  still  around?  When  I  was  a  kid,  the  Technocrats  used  to  drive  these  gray  cars  with  the  yang/yin  sym-  bol  on  the  door.)  To  continue,  I  did  like  the  idea  your  letter  carrier  tossed  you  about  having  the  Yogi  do  a  sort  of  Meher  Baba  number,  where  he  doesn't  talk.  But  on  second  thought,  this  would  mean  he'd  have  to  write  his  dialogue  responses  on  a  chalkboard.  For  a  half-hour  show  we'd  only  be  able  to  get  in  about  twelve  lines  of  dialogue  (not  counting  the  eight  commercials,  of  course).  Then,  too,  there's  the  problem  of  the  audience  reading  the  chalkboard.  The  show  would  be  aimed  at  college  kids,  and  the  latest  surveys  show  they  can't  read  much.  O.K.,  now  we  get  to  my  dramatic  series  on  ecology.  El  Dullo,  your  wife's  brother  said.  So  I  suggested  turning  it  around  and  having  this  couple  who  race  across  the  country  in  a  GMC  pick-  up  littering  the  landscape  as  a  sort  of  social  protest-&quot;Bonnie  and  Buford.&quot;  (We  could  even  suggest,  tastefully,  that  Buford  does  this  trashing  because  he's  impotent.)  This  dynamic  duo  would  undoubtedly  be  more  exciting,  but  then  your  smart-ass  garage  me-  chanic  had  to  point  out  that  our  couple  might  become  cult  heroes  with  the  kids,  and  we'd  be  wading  through  " b"disposable  waste  up  to  our  eyeballs.  So  then  practically  overnight  I  came  up  with  &quot;Ecoman,&quot;  who  clandestinely  strikes  against  companies  that  pollute  and  rape  the  earth  and  the  air,  and  flora  and  fauna.  In  real  life  he  is  a  mild-mannered  right  wing  on  a  hock-  ey  team  (the  Canarsie  Cripplers),  but  when  he  changes  into  his  costume-by  slipping  intoa  granary  bin  in  a  natural-  food  store  and  saying  the  magic  words  &quot;Rose  Hips!&quot;-he  becomes  ...  Eco-  man!  Faster  than  a  spreading  oil  slick!  More  powerful  than  the  smell  of  the  Cuyahoga!  Capable  of  saving  entire  species  with  a  single  leap!  Only  a  har-  poon  dipped  in  mercury-tainted  tuna  can  kill  him.  Dynamite!  But  then  you  tell  me  that  the  potential  sponsors  are  all  polluters  themselves,  and  also  we  can't  get  a  big  name  for  the  lead  because  nobody  wants  to  be  associ-  ated  with  a  controversial  subject  like  clean  air  and  water,  except  maybe  Brando  and  Baez,  and  they're  even  more  controversial  than  clean  air  and  water.  AVD  then  I  wrote  ...  the  series  on  the  Arica-Esalen-type  institute  and  the  problems  and  interaction  be-  tween  the  inmates.  Now,  look,  we  just  can't  cut  out  the  nude  scenes  as  They  want  us  to  because,  you  see,  these  lib-  erated-awareness  franchises  do  a  lot  of  their  mojo  in  the  form  of  nude  en-  counters.  They  believe  people  play  less  games  and  assume  less  hokey  roles  when  not  disguised  in  clothing,.  Your  cousin  Cal's  idea  to  &quot;simulate&quot;  the  nude  scenes  is  no  go.  Have  you  ever  triedto  fake  the  nude  human  body!  You  can  fake  the  destruction  of  To-  kyo-you  can  even  do  it  on  a  dining-  room  table-but  you  can't  fake  the  forked  radish.  The  body  has  a  certain  look  that's  impossible  to  simulate.  As  for  running  the  show  real  late,  like  three  in  the  morning,  so  kiddies  can't  see  it,  there  are  two  objections:  (a)  it's  adults  who  are  offended  by  the  human  body,  not  children,  and  (b)  these  adults  don't  want  amyone  to  see  the  human  body-children  are  just  an  excuse.  So  my  answer  to  Them,  in  case  your  six-year-old  is  reading  this,  is  Ixnay.  Then  there  was  my  idea  &quot;Sancho  and  the  Kid.&quot;  I  was  proud  of  that  little  doozy-really  off-the-wall.  Hav-  ing  this  old  Portuguese  sexagenarian  working  for  this  young  Wasp  kid  who  runs  a  snowmobile  repair  service.  The  kid  is  cranky,  bigoted,  dyspeptic,  has  low-back  pains,  drinks  all  day  long,  is  sexually  hung  up  and  a  bit  of  a  rip-off.  The  old  Portagee  is  cheerful,  healthy  as  a  pippin  apple,  highly  idealistic,  macrobiotic,  smokes  a  little  boo,  has  a  whole  string  of  foxy  chicks  who  keep  him  up  most  of  the  night,  and  he's  into  TM  and  T'ai  Chi.  The  only  mu-  sic  the  kid  likes  is  theold  big  bands  like  Alvino  Rey,  Ted  Weems,  Gar- wood  Vann,  Kay  Kyser,  Evelyn  &amp;  her  Magic  Violin,  and  Shep  Fields  and  His  Rippling  Rhythm,  while  the  old  boy  picks  upon  Led  Zeppelin,  Jethro  Tull,  Blue  Oyster  Cult,  Pink  Floyd,  and  Country  Porn.  So  what  happened?  The  network  zipperheads  wanted  to  play  it  as  turnabout  farce,  there  obviously  being  nobody  in  &quot;real  life&quot;  like  this  Oh,  yeah?  Says  who?  I  knew  two  guys  exactly  like  these  flake-os,  and  one  of  them  is  me.  To  do  it  as  ajoke  would  mean  I  could  never  look  myself  in  the  shaving  mir-  ror-if  I  shaved.  Nevertheless,  I  will.  Sell  out.  I  can't  afford  principles  anymore.  When  meat  prices  went  up,  I  laughed.  When  gaso-  line  soared,  I  lost  not  a  wink.  But  when  they  tripled  the  price  of  peanut  butter,  rice,  and  beans,  they  hit  me  where  it  hurts.  So  let's  do  it  the  way  They  want  to.  It'll  bomb,  but  They  won't  find  out  until  the  fifth  or  sixth  show,  when  They'll  cancel  it  and  run  in  &quot;[REDACTED]  Squares&quot;  or  &quot;Hogan's  Heroes&quot;  (R).  But  that  should  be  enough  time  to  buy  me  enough  money  to  buy  me  a  lifetime  supply  of  Skippy  (crunchy  style),  [REDACTED]  pinto  beans,  and  Good  [REDACTED]  brown  rice.  Then  I  can  go  back  to  doing  what  every  really  dedicated  writer  wants  to  do.  Nothing.  Selah,  Pein  "