 b"THE  school  Carmela  attended  for  much  of  six  years  was  founded  by  Dr.  Barnes,  a  foreigner  who  had  no  better  use  for  his  money.  It  had  two  classrooms,  with  varnished  desks  nailed  to  the  floor,  and  steel  lockers  imported  from  [REDACTED],  and  a  playing  field  in  which  stray  dogs  col-  lected.  A  sepia  picture  of  the  founder  reading  a  book  hung  near  a  likeness  of  Mussolini.  The  two  frames  were  iden-  tical,  which  showed  the  importance  of  Dr.  Barnes-at  least  in  Castel  Vittorio.  Over  their  heads  the  King  rode  horse-  back,  wearing  all  his  medals.  To  one  side,  somewhat  adrift  on  the  same  wall,  was  the  Sacred  Heart.  After  Carmela  was  twelve  and  too  old  to  bother  with  school  anymore,  she  forgot  all  the  his-  tory  and  geography  she'd  learned,  but  she  remembered  the  men  in  their  brown  frames,  and  Jesus  with  His  heart  on  fire.  She  left  home  that  year,  just  after  Easter,  and  came  down  to  the  Ligurian  coast  between  Ventimiglia  and  Bordighera.  She  was  to  live  with  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Unwin  now,  to  cook  and  clean  and  take  care  of  their  twin  daughters.  Tessa  and  Clare  were  the  children's  names;  Carmela  pronounced  them  easily.  The  Unwins  owned  a  small  printing  press,  and  as  there  was  a  large  Anglo-556e6974656420537461746573n  colony  in  that  part  of  the  world  they  never  lacked  for  trade.  They  furnished  letterhead  sta-  tionery,  circulars,  and  announcements  for  libraries,  consulates,  Anglican  churches,  and  the  British  Legion-  some  printed,  some  run  off  the  mimeo-  graph  machine.  Mr.  Unwin  was  also  a  part-time  real-estate  agent.  'They  lived  in  a  villa  on  top  of  a  bald  hill.  Because  of  a  chronic  water  shortage,  nothing  would  grow  except  cactus.  An  electric  pump  would  have  helped  the  matter,  but  the  Unwins  were  too  poor  to  have  one  put  in.  Mrs.  Unwin  worked  with  her  husband  in  the  print-  ing  office  when  she  felt  well  enough.  She  was  the  victim  of  fierce  headaches  caused  by  pollen,  sunshine,  and  strong  perfumes.  The  Unwins  had  had  a  cook,  a  char,  and  a  nanny  for  the  children,  but  when  Carmela  joined  the  house-  hold  they  dismissed  the  last  of  the  three;  the  first  two  had  been  gone  for  over  a  year  now.  From  the  kitchen  one  could  look  down  a  slope  intoa  gar-  den  where  flowering  trees  and  shrubs  sent  gusts  of  scent  across  to  torment  Mrs.  Unwin,  and  leaves  and  petals  to  litter  her  cactus  bed.  An  556e6974656420537461746573n  woman  called  &quot;the  Marchesa&quot;  lived  there.  Mrs.  Unwin  thought  of  her  as  an  enemy-someone  who  deliberately  grew  flowers  for  the  discomfort  they  created.  Carmela  had  never  been  anywhere  except  her  own  village  and  this  house,  but  Mrs.  Unwin  had  no  way  of  know-  ing  that.  She  pressed  a  cracked  black  change  purse  in  Carmela's  hand  and  sent  her  down  the  hill  to  the  local  mar-  ket  to  fetch  carrots  and  not  over  a  pound  of  the  cheapest  stewing  beef.  Carmela  saw  walled  villas,  and  a  clinic  with  a  windbreak  of  cypress  trees  and  ochre  walls  and  black  licorice  balco-  nies.  Near  the  shore,  work  had  stopped  on  some  new  houses.  One  could  look  through  them,  where  windows  were  still  holes  in  the  walls,  and  catch  a  glimpse  ofthe  sea.  She  heard  someone  comment  in  an  Italian  more  precious  than  her  own,  &quot;Hideous.  I  hope  they  fall  down  on  top  of  the  builder.  Unwin  put  money  in  it,  too,  but  he's  bank-  rupt.&quot;  The  woman  who  made  these  remarks  was  sitting  under  the  pale-blue  awning  of  a  caf\xc3\xa9  so  splendid  that  Car-  mela  felt  bound  to  look  the  other  way.  She  caught,  like  her  flash  of  the  sea,  small  round  tables  and  colored  ices  in  silver  dishes.  All  at  once  she  recog-  nized  a  chauffeur  in  uniform  leaning  with  his  back  to  a  speckless  motorcar.  He  was  from  Castel  Vittorio.  He  gave  no  sign  that  he  knew  Carmela.  Her  real  life  was  beginning  now,  and  she  never  doubted  its  meaning.  Among  the  powerful  and  the  strange  she  would  be  mute  and  watchful.  She  would  swim  like  a  little  fish,  and  learn  to  breathe  under  water.  At  the  beginning,  she  did  not  al-  ways  understand  what  was  said,  or  what  Mrs.  Unwin  expected.  When  Mrs.  Unwin  remarked,  &quot;'The  chestnut  trees  flower  beautifully  up  where  you  come  from,  though,  of  course,  the  blos-  soms  are  death  for  me,&quot;  Carmela  stopped  peeling  vegetables  forthe  Eng-  lish  stew  Mrs.  Unwin  was  showing  her  how  to  make  and  waited  for  some-  thing  more.  &quot;What  have  I  said  now  to  startle  you?&quot;  said  Mrs.  Unwin.  &quot;You're  like  a  little  sparrow!&quot;  Car-  mela  still  waited,  glancing  sidelong,  hair  cut  unevenly  and  pushed  behind  her  ears.  She  wore  a  grey  skirt,  a  cot-  ton  blouse,  and  sandals.  A  limp  black  cardigan  hung  on  her  shoulders.  She  did  not  own  stockings,  shoes,  a  change  of  underwear,  a  dressing  gown,  or  a  coat,  but  she  had  a  medal  on  a  chain,  an  inheritance  from  a  Sicilian  grand-  mother-the  grandmother  from  whom  she  had  her  southern  name.  Mrs.  Un-  win  had  already  examined  Carmela's  ears  to  see  if  the  lobes  were  pierced.  She  couldn't  stand  that-the  vanity  of  it,  and  the  mutilation.  Letting  Car-  mela's  ears  go,  she  had  said  to  her  hus-  band,  &quot;Good.  Mussolini  is  getting  rid  of  most  of  that.  All  but  the  medals.  .  ..  Have  I  pronounced  'chestnut'  in  some  peculiar  way?  My  Italian  can't  be  that  bad.&quot;  She  got  a  little  green  dictionary  out  of  the  pocket  of  her  smock  and  ruffled  its  pages.  She  had  to  tilt  her  head  and  close  an  eye  because  of  the  cigarette  she  kept  in  her  mouth.  &quot;I  don't  mean  horse  chestnuts,&quot;  she  said,  the  cigarette  waving.  &quot;How  very  funny  that  is  in  Italian,  by  the  way.  I  mean  the  Spanish  chestnuts.  They  flower  late  in  the  season,  I  believe.&quot;  &quot;Every  flower  has  its  season,&quot;  said  the  child.  Carmela  believed  this  conversation  to  have  a  malignant  intent  she  could  not  yet  perceive.  The  mixture  of  English  and  unstressed  Italian  was  virtually  im-  possible  for  her  to  follow.  She  had  never  seen  a  woman  smoking  until  now.  &quot;But  your  family  are  up  the  Nervia  [REDACTED]?&quot;  Mrs.  Unwin  insisted.  &quot;Your  father,  your  mother,  your  sisters  and  your  cousins  and  your  aunts?&quot;  She  became  jocular,  therefore  terrifying.  &quot;Maria,  Liliana,  Ignazio,  Franca-  maria  ...&quot;  The  names  of  remembered  servants  ran  out.  &quot;I  think  so,&quot;  said  Carmela.  Her  mother  had  come  down  to  Bor-  dighera  to  work  in  the  laundry  room  of  a  large  hotel.  Her  little  brother  had  been  apprenticed  to  a  stonemason.  Her  father  was  dead,  perhaps.  The  black  and  the  grey  she  wore  were  half-  mourning.  &quot;Mussolini  is  trying  to  get  away  from  those  oversized  families,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Unwin  with  confidence.  She  sat  on  a  high  stool,  arranging  flowers  in  a  =  copper  bowl.  She  squashed  her  cigarette  suddenly  and  drank  out  of  a  teacup.  She  seemed  to  Carmela  unnaturally  tall,.  Her  hands  were  stained,  freckled,  old,  but  she  was  the  mother  of  Tessa  and  Clare,  who  were  under  three  and  still  called  &quot;the  babies.&quot;  The  white  roses  she  was  stabbing  onto  something  cruel  and  spiked  had  been  brought  to  the  kitchen  door  by  the  chauffeur  from  " b"Castel  Vittorio.  This  time  he  had  given  Carmela  a  diffident  nod.  &quot;Do  you  know  him?&quot;  said  Mrs.  Unwin  instantly.  &quot;I  think  I  saw  him  in  the  town,&quot;  said  Carmela.  &quot;Now,  that  is  deceitful,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Unwin,  though  without  reproach.  &quot;He  knows  who  you  are,  because  he  vouched  for  your  whole  family.  'Hard-  working,  sober,  the  pride  of  the  Nervia  [REDACTED].'  I  hope  there  is  to  be  none  of  that,&quot;  she  added,  in  another  voice.  &quot;You  know  what  I  mean.  Men,  gig-  gling,  chatting  men  up  in  the  doorway,  long  telephone  calls.&quot;  The  white  roses  were  a  peace  offer-  ing:  a  dog  belonging  to  the  next-door  neighbor  had  torn  up  something  pre-  cious  in  the  Unwins'  garden.  Mrs.  Un-  win  suddenly  said  that  she  had  no  time  to  stroll  out  in  pink  chiffon,  wearing  a  floppy  hat  and  carrying  a  sprinkling  can;  no  time  to  hire  jazz  bands  for  par-  ties  or  send  shuttlecocks  flying  over  the  hedge  and  then  a  servant  to  retrieve  them;  less  time  still  to  have  a  chauffeur  as  a  lover.  Carmela  could,  not  get  the  drift  of  this.  She  felt  accused.  &quot;I  don't  know,  Signora,&quot;  she  said,  as  though  some  yes-or-no  answer  had  been  required  point-blank.  Where  the  roses  had  come  from  ev-  erything  was  white,  green,  lavish,  sweet-smelling.  Plants  Carmela  could  not  have  put  a  name  to  bent  over  with  the  weight  of  their  blooms.  She  could  faintly  hear  a  radio.  All  of  that  be-  longed  to  the  Marchesa.  She  was  the  one  who  had  said,  &quot;Hideous.&quot;  OLLEN  carried  on  the  wind  from  the  Marchesa's  garden  felled  Mrs.  Unwin  in  May.  She  was  also  assaulted  by  a  large  tree-like  shrub  on  the  Mar-  chesa's  side  called  a  datura;  some  of  its  bell-like  creamy  flowers  hung  over  the  cactus  patch.  Their  scent,  stronger  than  jasmine,  was  poison  to  Mrs.  Unwin's  nervous  system.  From  her  darkened  room  she  sent  for  Carmela.  She  opened  a  leather  box  with  a  little  key  and  showed  her  a  sapphire  set  in  diamonds  and  a  loose  emerald.  She  told  Carmela  the  names  of  the  stones  and  said,  &quot;I  do  not  believe  in  hiding.  I  am  telling  you  where  they  are  and  that  the  key  is  in  my  handkerchief  case.&quot;  Again  Car-  mela  felt  she  had  been  accused.  The  babies  sat  on  their  mother's  bed  meanwhile.  They  were  placid,  sleepy  children  with  yellow  hair  Carmela  enjoyed  brushing;  only  one  thing  was  tiring  about  them-they  were  too  lazy  to  walk.  One  or  the  other  had  to  be  carried  by  Carmela,  hooked  like  a  little  monkey  above  her  left  hip.  She  began  to  stand  with  her  spine  slightly  bent  to  one  side,  as  a  habit.  What  she  remem-  bered  of  that  spring  was  the  weight  of  Clare  or  Tessa  pulling  her  shoulder  down,  and  that  she  was  always  hungry.  Carmela  had  never  known  people  to  eat  so  little  as  the  Unwins,  not  even  among  the  poor.  They  shared  a  thin  " b"cutlet  for  lunch,  or  the  vegetable  re-  mains  of  astew,  or  had  an  egg  apiece  ora  bit  of  cooked  ham.  The  children's  food  and  Carmela's  was  hardly  more  abundant.  Mrs.  Unwin  did  not  mean  to  undernourish  her  own  children;  she  sincerely  believed  that  very  little  was  enough.  Also,  meat  was  expensive.  Fruit  was  expensive.  So  were  cheese,  butter,  coffee,  milk,  and  bread.  The  Unwins  were  pinched  for  money.  They  had  a  house,  a  printing  establish-  ment,  furniture,  a  garden,  a  car,  and  they  had  Carmela,  but  they  had  noth-  ing  to  spend.  The  drawing-room  car-  pet  was  scuffed  and  torn,  and  the  wine-  red  wallpaper  displayed  peony-shaped  stains  of  paler  dampmold.  Mrs.  Un-  win  counted  out  the  coins  she  gave  Carmela  for  shopping,  and  she  counted  the  change.  On  Fridays  the  Unwins  would  send  Carmela  across  to  [REDACTED],  where  a  few  things,  such  as  chocolate  and  bananas,  were  cheaper.  That  was  not  the  only  reason;  it  seemed  that  vegetables  grown  in  4974616c79  gave  one  typhoid  fever.  Carmela  rode  in  a  bus  to  within  a  few  vards  of  the  border,  walked  over  (the  customs  men  on  both  sides  came  to  know  her),  and  took  a  narrow  road  downhill  to  an  avenue  along  the  sea.  She  went  as  far  as  the  marketplace,  never  beyond  it.  She  always  brought  back  a  loaf  of  French  bread,  because  it  was  one  of  the  few  things  Mr.  Unwin  could  eat  with  any  pleasure.  His  chron-  ically  poor  appetite  was  one  of  the  rea-  sons  so  little  food  came  into  the  house.  Carmela  would  break  off  one  end  of  the  loafto  eat  on  the  spot.  Then  she  would  break  off  the  other  end,  to  make  the  loaf  symmetrical,  but  she  always  kept  that  crust  for  later.  Carmela  had  two  other  reasons  to  be  anxious  that  spring.  One  had  to  do  with  the  room  she  slept  in;  the  other  was  the  sea.  Although  she  had  spent  her  life  not  many  miles  from  the  sea,  it  made  her  uneasy  to  be  so  close  to  it.  At  night  she  heard  great  waves  knock  against  the  foundations  of  the  town.  She  dreamed  of  being  engulfed,  of  seeking  refuge  on  rooftops,  Within  the  dream  her  death  seemed  inevitable.  In  the  garden,  coax-  ing  the  twins  to  walk,  she  said  to  the  chauffeur  from  Castel  Vittorio,  &quot;What  happens  when  thesea  comes  out?&quot;  In  his  shirtsleeves,  walking  the  Mar-  chesa's  dogs  on  the  road  outside,  he  stopped  and  laughed  at  Carmela.  &quot;What  do  you  mean,  'out?&quot;  &quot;Out,  up,&quot;  said  Carmela.  &quot;Up  out  of  where  it  is  now.&quot;  &quot;It  doesn't  come  up  or  out,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It  stays  where  it  is.&quot; &quot;What  is  there  where  we  can't  see?&quot;  &quot;More  water,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Then  Africa.&quot;  Carmela  crossed  herself-not  out  of  a  more  ample  fear  but  for  the  sake  of  her  fa-  ther,  who  had  probably  died  there.  He  had  been  conscripted  for  a  war  and  had  never  come  back.  There  had  been  no  word,  no  tele-  gram,  no  congratula-  tions  from  Mussolini,  and  of  course  no  pen-  sion.  As  for  her  room,  it  was  off  the  pantry,  al-  most  higher  than  long,  with  a  tiled  floor  and  a  good  view,  if  one  wanted  that.  Someone  had  died  there-a  rela-  tive  of  Mrs.  Unwin's;  he  had  come  for  a  long  visit  and  had  been  found  on  the  tiles  with  an  electric  bell  switch  in  his  hand.  &quot;A  peaceful  death,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Unwin,  ut-  terly  calmly,  talking  as  if  Carmela  would  need  to  know  the  history  of  the  place.  &quot;Not  even  time  to  ring.&quot;  The  old  man's  heart  was  delicate;  he  could  not  climb  stairs.  Who  would  have  heard  the  bell?  It  rang  somewhere  in  the  passage.  The  servants  they'd  kept  in  those  days  slept  out,  and  the  Unwins  took  sleeping  draughts,  yellow  and  green,  prepared  in  the  kitchen  and  car-  ried  up  to  bed.  Carmela  felt  the  sad  presence  of  the  poor  relation  who  had  come  ailing  to  a  good  climate  and  had  been  put  in  the  meanest  room;  who  had  choked,  panicked,  grabbed  for  the  bell,  and  fallen  on  it.  The  chauffeur  from  Castel  Vittorio  had  still  another  ver-  sion:  this  house  had  belonged  to  theold  man.  The  Unwins  had  promised  to  look  after  him  in  his  lifetime  in  ex-  change  for  the  property.  But  so  many  debts  had:-come  with  it  that  they  could  not  raise  any  money  on  it.  They  were  the  next  thing  to  paupers,  and  were  known  along  the  coast  more  or  less  as  steady  defaulters.  The  chauffeur  had  often  seen  the  uncle's  ghost  walking  to  and  fro  in  the  garden,  and  Carmela  herself  was  often  to  hear  the  thud  as  his  body  fell  between  her  bed  and  the  door.  Under  the  bed-as  beneath  any  bed  that  she  knew  of-was  a  devil,  or  a  demon,  waiting  to  catch  her.  Not  for  a  fortune  " b"would  she  have  sat  on  the  edge  of  the  bed  with  her  feet  dangling.  At  night  she  burrowed  beneath  the  bedclothes  with  a  mole  tunnel  left  for  breathing.  She  made  sure  that  every  strand  of  hair  was  tucked  out  of  sight.  Mornings  were  tender-first  pink,  then  pearl,  then  blue.  The  house  was  quiet,  the  twins  were  awake  and  smiling.  From  their  upstairs  window  the  sea  was  a  silken  cushion.  White  sails  floated-feathers.  The  breeze  that  came  in  was  a  friendly  presence  and  the  fragrance  of  the  Marchesa's  gar-  den  an  extra  gift.  After  a  time  Car-  mela's  phantoms  were  stilled.  The  soft-  ness  of  that  June  lulled  them,  The  uncle  slept  peacefully  somewhere,  and  the  devil  under  the  bed  became  too  drowsy  to  stretch  out  his  hand.  II  ETE  in  June,  Carmela's  little  broth-  er  ran  away  from  the  stonemason  and  came  to  the  kitchen  door.  His  blond  hair  was  dark  with  sweat  and  dirt  and  his  face  streaked  with  it.  She  gave  him  a  piece  of  bread  she  had  saved  from  a  French  loaf,  and  a  cup  of  the  children's  milk  out  of  the  icebox.  The  larder  was  padlocked;  Mrs.  Unwin  would  be  along  to  open  it  before  teatime.  Just  as  Carmela  was  rinsing  the  cup  she  heard,  &quot;Who  is  that,  Carmela?&quot;  It  was  Mr.,  thank  God,  not  Mrs.  &quot;A  beggar,&quot;  said  Car-  mela.  The  babies'  father  was  nearsighted.  He  wore  thick  glasses,  never  shouted,  seldom  smiled.  He  looked  down  at  the  boy  in  the  doorway  and  said  to  him,  &quot;Why  do  you  beg?  Who  sends  you  to  do  this?&quot;  The  child's  hand  was  clenched  on  something,  perhaps  a  stolen  something.  Mr.  Unwin  was  not  unkind;  he  was  firm.  The  small  fist  turned  this  and  that  way  in  his  grasp,  but  he  managed  to  straighten  the  fingers;  all  that  he  revealed  was  a  squashed  crust  and  a  filthy  palm.  &quot;Why  doyou  beg?&quot;  he  repeated.  &quot;No  one  needs  to  beg  in  modern  4974616c79.  Who  sends  you?  Your  father?  Your  mother?  Do  they  sit  idly  at  home  and  tell  you  to  ask  for  money?&quot;  It  was  clear  that  he  would  never  have  put  up  with  an  injustice  of  that  kind.  The  child  remained  silent,  and  soon  Mr.  Unwin  found  himself  holding  a  hand  he  did  not  know  what  to  do  with.  He  read  its  lines,  caked  with  dirt  and  marked  clearly  in  an  M-shape  of  black-  ness.  &quot;Where  do  you  live?&quot;  he  said,  letting  go.  &quot;You  can't  wander  around  up  here.  Someone  will  tell  the  police.&quot;  He  did  not  mean  that  he  would.  &quot;He  is  going  back  where  he  came  from,&quot;  said  Carmela.  The  child  looked  at  her  with  such  adult  sadness,  and  she  turned  away  so  gravely  as  she  dried  the  cup  and  put  it  on  a  shelf,  that  Mr.  Unwin  would  tell  his  wife  later,  in  Carmela's  hearing,  &quot;They  were  like  lovers.&quot;  &quot;Give  him  something,&quot;  he  said  to  Carmela,  who  replied  that  she  would,  without  mentioning  that  the  larder  was  padlocked  ;  for  surely  he  knew?  Carmela  could  understand  English  now,  but  nobody  guessed  that.  When  she  heard  the  Unwins  saying  some  time   after  this  that  they  wanted  a  stonema-  son  because  the  zoning  laws  obliged  them  to  grow  a  hedge  or  build  a  wall  to  replace  the  sagging  wire  that  sur-  rounded  their  garden,  she  kept  still;  and  when  they  asked  each  other  if  it  would  be  worthwhile  speaking  to  Car-  mela,  who  might  know  of  someone  re-  liable  and  cheap,  she  wore  the  lightest,  vaguest  of  looks  on  her  face,  which  meant  &quot;No.&quot;  It  was  the  Marchesa  who  had  lodged  a  complaint  about  the  Unwins'  wire.  The  unsightliness  of  it  lowered  the  value  of  her  own  property.  Mrs.  Unwin  promised  her  husband  she  would  carry  the  bitterness  of  this  to  her  grave.  The  light  that  had  sent  the  house  ghosts  to  sleep  brought  Mrs.  Unwin  nothing  but  despair.  She  remained  in  her  curtained  bedroom  and  often  for-  got  even  to  count  the  change  Carmela  returned  in  the  black  purse.  Dr.  Chaf-  fee,  of  the  clinic  down  the  hill,  called  to  see  Mrs.  Unwin.  He  wanted  to  look  at  the  children,  too;  their  father  had  told  him  how  Tessa  and  Clare  were  toolazy  to  walk.  Dr.  Chaffee  was  not  Ital-  ian  and  not  English.  The  English  physician  who  had  been  so  good  with  chil-  dren  and  so  tactful  with  their  parents  had  gone  away.  He  was  afraid  of  war.  Mrs,  Unwin  thought  this  was  poor  of  him.  Mussolini  did  not  want  war.  Neither  did  Hitler,  surely?  What  did  Dr.  Chaffee  think?  He  had  lived  in  [REDACTED].  &quot;I  think  that  you  must  not  feel  anxious  about  a  situation  you  can't  change,&quot;  he  said.  He  still  wore  the  strange  dark  clothes  that  must  have  been  proper  in  another  climate.  &quot;I  do  not  feel  anx-  ious,&quot;  she  said,  her  hands  to  her  face.  Carmela  parted  the  curtains  a  little  so  that  the  doctor  could  examine  the  twins  by  light  of  day.  They  were  not  lazy,  he  said.  They  had  rickets.  Carmela  could  have  told  him  that.  She  also  knew  there  was  no  cure  for  it.  Mrs.  Unwin  seemed  offended.  &quot;Our  English  doctor  called  it  softening  ofthe  bone.&quot;  &quot;''They  must  milk,&quot;  said  Dr.  have  Chaf-  " b"fee.  &quot;Not  the  skimmed  stuff.  Fresh  fruit,  cod-liver  oil.&quot;  He  wrote  on  a  pad  as  he  spoke.  &quot;And  in  August  you  must  get  them  away  from  the  coast.&quot;  Mrs.  Unwin's  hands  slid  forward  until  they  covered  her  face.  &quot;I  was  too  old,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  hadno  right  to  bring  these  maimed  infants  into  the  world.&quot;  Dr.  Chaffee  did  not  seem  to  be  alarmed  at  this.  He  drew  Carmela  near,  saying,  &quot;What  about  this  child?  How  old  is  she?&quot;  Carmelaremembered  she  knew  no  English;  she  looked  dumbly  from  one  to  the  other.  Dr.  Chaffee  repeated  the  question  in  Italian,  straight  to  Carmela,  and  calling  her  &quot;little  girl.&quot;  &quot;Nearly  thirteen,&quot;  said  Carmela.  &quot;Good  God,  she  looks  nine.&quot;  Mrs,  Unwin's  hands  parted.  She  wore  the  grimace  that  was  one  of  her  ways  of  smiling.  &quot;I  am  remiss  about  everything,  then?  I  didn't  create  her.  Tell  me  how  to  make  her  look  nearly  thirteen.&quot;  &quot;Partly  heredity,&quot;  he  said.  They  began  to  chat,  and  Mrs.  Un-  win  to  smile  widely.  &quot;I  shall  do  whatever  you  say,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Unwin.  After  the  doctor  had  departed-  Carmela  saw  him  in  his  dark  suit  paus-  ing  to  look  at  the  datura  tree-Mrs.  Unwin  sent  for  her  again.  &quot;'The  doctor  says  that  part  of  your  trouble  must  be  spaghetti,&quot;  she  said  seriously,  as  if  she  did  not  know  to  a  crumb  what  Car-  mela  was  given  at  meals.  &quot;You  are  to  cat  meat,  fresh  vegetables.  And  take  these.  Now  don't  forget.  Dr.  Chaffee  went  to  some  trouble.&quot;  She  gave  Car-  mela  a  small  amber  bottle  of  dark  pills,  which  were  said  to  be  iron.  Carmela  never  tasted  any,  of  course.  For  one  thing,  she  mistrusted  medicines;  but  the  bottle  remained  among  her  belongings  for  many  years,  and  had  the  rank  of  a  personal  possession.  Another  thing  happened  about  that  time:  Mrs.  Unwin  paid  Carmela  the  first  installment  of  her  wages.  MRS.  Unwin  said  that  the  doves  in  the  Marchesa's  garden  made  more  noise  than  was  required  of  birds.  By  seven  in  the  morning,  the  sky  was  heavy  and  held  the  afternoon's  thunder-  shower.  Carmela,  rushing  outside  to  bring  in  washing  dried  on  the  line,  felt  on  her  face  a  breeze  that  was  like  warm  water.  She  moved  through  heat  and  housework  that  seemed  like  a  long  dream.  Someone  had  placed  an  order  with  Mr.  Unwin  to  have  poems  print-  ed.  Mrs.  Unwin  parted  the  curtains  in  her  bedroom  and  in  spite  of  her  head-  aches,  which  nearly  blinded  her,  stitched  one  hundred  and  fifty  booklets by  hand.  One  Friday,  after  shopping  in  the  French  market,  Carmela  went  to  see  a  marvel  she  had  been  told  about-  two  rows  of  plane  trees  whose  branches  met  to  form  a  tunnel.  The  trunks  of  these  trees  turned  out  to  be  thick  and  awkward-looking;  they  blocked  Car-  mela's  view  of  shops  from  one  sidewalk  to  the  next.  Like  most  trees,  they  sim-  ply  stood  in  the  way  of  anything  inter-  esting.  She  mentioned  this  to  Mrs.  Un-  win,  who  walked  to  and  fro  in  the  kitchen,  drinking  out  ofa  teacup,  with  a  straw  sun  hat  on  her  head.  &quot;Where  there  are  no  trees  there  are  no  nightingales,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Unwin.  &quot;When  I  am  feeling  well  I  like  to  hear  them.&quot;  &quot;What,  those  things  that  make  a  noise  at  night?&quot;  Not  noise  but  song,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Un-  win,  cradling  her  teacup.  &quot;Every  creature  has  its  moment,&quot;  said  Carmela.  &quot;What  a  prim  creature  you  are,&quot;  cried  Mrs.  Unwin,  flinging  her  head  back,  showing  her  teeth.  Carmela  was  glad  she  had  made  her  laugh,  but  she  resolved  to  be  more  careful  than  ever:  this  was  as  far  as  an  exchange  between  them  need  ever  go.  ECAUSE  of  what  Dr.  Chaffee  had  said,  the  Unwins  rented  an  apart-  ment  in  a  village  away  from  the  coast  forthe  month  of  August.  They  squeezed  into  the  car  with  the  twins  and  Carmela  and  much  luggage,  drove  past  the  road  leading  to  the  Nervia  [REDACTED],  and  climbed  back  into  hills  Carmela  had  never  seen.  &quot;Weren't  you  born  around  here,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Unwin,  without  desiring  an  answer.  Carmela,  who  thought  she  knew  all  Mrs.  Unwin's  voices  now,  did  not  re-  ply,  but  Mr.  Unwin  said,  &quot;You  know  perfectly  well  it  was  that  other  road.&quot;  It  seemed  to  matter  to  him  that  his  wife  should  have  made  a  mistake.  The  twins  were  shared  by  Mrs.  Un-  win  and  Carmela.  Both  of  them  want-  ed  to  sit  on  Carmela's  lap.  Mrs.  Unwin  was  not  at  all  jealous;  some  serious  matters  she  found  extremely  comic.  The  girls  slept,  and  when  they  woke  and  began  to  fret,  Mr.  Unwin  stopped  the  car  so  they  could  both  be  moved  to  the  back  with  Carmela.  There  was  scarcely  room  even  for  her,  small  though  Dr.  Chaffee  had  said  she  was,  for  the  back  was  piled  with  bedsheets  and  blankets  and  even  saucepans.  After  four  hours  they  came  to  a  village  that  had  grass  everywhere,  and  wooden  houses  that  were  painted  a  soft  brown.  Their  summer  flat  was  half  a  house,  with  a  long  carved  balcony,  and  mats  " b"instead  of  carpets,  and  red  curtains  on  brass  rings.  It  contained  an  exciting  smell  of  varnish  and  fresh  soap.  The  Unwins  piled  all  the  luggage  in  a  heap  on  the  floor  and  unpacked  nothing  to  start  with  but  a  kettle  and  teapot  and  three  pottery  mugs.  Carmela  heard  Mr.  Unwin  talking  to  the  owner  of  this  house  in  his  strange  nasal  Italian  and  mentioning  her,  Carmela,  as  &quot;the  young  lady  who  would  be  in  charge.&quot;  They  drank  tea  meanwhile,  Mrs.  Un-  win  sitting  on  a  bare  mattress  stuffed  with  horsehair,  Carmela  standing  with  her  back  to  a  wall.  Mrs.  Unwin  talked  to  her  as  she  had  never  done  before  and  would  never  again.  She  still  seemed  to  Carmela  very  large  and  ugly,  but  her  face  was  smooth  and  she  kept  her  voice  low,  and  Carmela  thought  that  perhaps  she  was  not  so  old  after  all.  She  said,  &quot;If  there  is  a  war,  we  may  not  be  able  to  get  money  out  of  [REDACTED],  such  as  there  is.  We  shall  never  leave  4974616c79.  I  have  faith  in  the  Movement.  The  Ital-  ians  know  they  can  trust  us.  The  Ger-  mans  are,  well,as  they  have  always  been,  and  I'm  afraid  we  British  have  made  no  effort  to  meet  them  halfway.  Dr.  Chaffee  tells  me  you  are  as  reliable  as  an  adult,  Carmela.  I  am  going  to  be-  lieve  him.  I  would  like  you  to  teach  the  twins  the  alphabet.  Will  you  do  that?  Don't  forget  thatthe  English  alphabet  has  a  'W.'  Somewhere  near  the  end.  Teach  them  Italian  poems  and  songs.  Dr.  Chaffee  thinks  I  should  have  as  few  worries  as  possible  just  now.  There  will  be  acourse  of  treatment  at  the  clinic.  Baths.  Wet  sheets.  I  suppose  I  must  believe  in  magic.&quot;  She  went  on  like  this,  perched  on  the  edge  of  the  bare  mattress,  staring  out  over  her  tea  mug,  all  knees  and  elbows,  and  Car-  mela  did  not  move  or  answer  or  even  sip  her  tea.  She  wanted  to  make  the  bed  and  put  the  twins  in  it,  because  they  had  missed  their  afternoon  sleep-un-  less  one  counted  the  fitful  dozing  in  the  automobile.  Mrs.  Unwin  said,  &quot;I  had  expected  a  better  south  than  this  one.  First  we  went  to  Amalfi.  I  had  left  my  son  in  [REDACTED].  A  little  boy.  When  I  was  allowed  to  visit  him  he  said,  'How  do  you  do?'  No  one  would  speak  to  me.  We  came  back  to  4974616c79.  The  moonlight  glittered  on  his  eyes.  Before  the  twins  came.  'Do  not  think,  but  feel,&quot;  he  said  to  me.  Or  the  oppo-  site.  But  it  was  only  being  tied  again-  this  time  with  poverty,  and  the  chat-  ter  of  ill-bred  people.  No  escape  from  it-marriage,  childbirth,  patriotism,  the  dark.  The  same  circle-baptism,  con-  firmation,  prayers  forthe  dead.  Or  else,  silence.&quot;  From  the  doorway  Mr.  Unwin  said,  &quot;Ellen.&quot;  He  came  along  with  a  walk  Carmela  had  not  seen  before,  slightly  shambling.  &quot;What  is  in  the  cup?&quot;  he  said.  She  smiled  at  him  and  said,  &quot;Tea.&quot;  He  took  it,  sniffed  it.  &quot;So  it  is.&quot;  He  helped  her  up.  Unpacking,  making  beds,  Carmela  experienced  a  soft,  exultant  happiness.  The  Unwins  were  going  back  home  early  the  next  morning.  Mr.  Unwin  gave  Carmela  a  handful  of  money-  pulled  it  out  of  his  wallet  without  counting-said,  &quot;That  has  got  to  last  you,  eh?&quot;  with  an  upward  lift  that  de-  nied  this  was  an  order.  The  money  was  more  than  she  had  ever  been  trust-  ed  with  on  the  coast  and  actually  more  than  she  had  seen  at  any  one  time.  She  put  the  twins  to  sleep  with  nightgowns  round  their  pillows  (she  and  Mrs.  Un-  win  between  them  had  forgotten  to  pack  cases)  and  then  shared  the  Un-  wins'  picnic  supper.  New  people  in  a  new  place,  they  told  Carmela  to  go  to  bed  without  bothering  about  the  dishes.  She  was  pulled  out  ofa  deep  sleep  by  a  thunderstorm.  Her  heart  squeezed  tight  in  uncontrollable  terror.  Through  the  beating  of  horses'  hooves  she  heard  Mr.  Unwin  speaking  quietly.  When  the  storm  stopped,  the  house  was  per-  " b"fectly  still.  She  became  prey  to  a  hawk-  moth  and  a  mosquito.  She  pulled  the  sheet  up  over  her  head  as  she  had  against  ghosts,  and  fell  asleep  and  had  the  sea  dream.  She  woke  up  still  hear-  ing  a  thin  mosquito  song  nearby.  Along  the  wall  was  a  white  ladder  of  slatted  light  that  she  took  to  be  the  light  of  morning.  In  her  half-sleep  she  rose  and  unclasped  the  shutters  and,  looking  out,  saw  a  track  of  moon  over  the  village  as  on  the  sea,  and  one  pale  street  lamp,  and  a  cat  curled  up  on  the  road.  The  cat,  wakened  by  being  seen  by  Car-  mela,  walked  off  lashing  its  tail.  She  had  the  true  feeling  that  she  was  in  a  real  place.  She  did  not  dream  the  sea  dream  again.  The  next  thing  Carmela  heard  was  the  twins  bounc-  ing  a  ball  and  stumbling  aft-  er  it,  still  in  their  nightclothes.  The  Unwins,  up  even  earlier,  had  made  breakfast.  'They  greeted  Carmela  as  if  she  were  one  of  their  own.  The  storm  had  swept  the  sky  clean.  Oh,  such  happiness!  Never  before,  never  again.  Soon  after  breakfast  they  went  away,  having  plotted  first  with  Car-  mela  to  distract  the  twins.In  the  late  afternoon  amist  came  down  so  thick  and  low  that  Carmela,  who  had  never  seen  anything  like  it  before,  thought  it  must  be  the  smoke  of  trees  on  fire.  WITHOUT  any  warning,  the  Unwins  drove  upfrom  the  coast  one  Saturday  with  Mrs.  Unwin's  son,  Douglas,  who  lived  in  [REDACTED].  He  was  taller  even  than  the  Unwins,  and  had  a  long  face,  dark  straight  hair,  and  horn-rimmed  spectacles.  With  him  was  a  girl  he  thought  he  might  marry.  &quot;Don't  be  such  a  fool,&quot;  Carmela  heard  Mrs.  Unwin  telling  Douglas  in  the  kitchen.  No  one  suspected  how  much  Carmela  now  understood.  'The  girl  had  a  reddish  sunburn  on  her  cheeks  and  nose.  Her  hair  was  cut  rather  like  Carmela's,  but  held  with  metal  grips.  She  unpacked  a  flimsy  embroidery  pat-  tern  and  a  large  canvas  and  began  stabbing  at  it  with  a  flat  needle.  She  was  making  a  cushion.  Carmela  did  not  care  for  the  colors,  which  were  dark  greens  and  browns.  The  girl  shifted  her  gaze  from  the  pattern  to  the  canvas,  back  and  forth.  Her  sun-  burn  made  her  too  cross  to  speak.  Douglas  told  his  mother  she  wasn't  always  quite  so  unfriendly.  Carmela  thought  that  to  be  as  large  and  as  ugly  as  these  people  was  to  be  cursed.  They  all  crowded  into  the  flat  for  one  night.  Mrs.  Unwin  went  over  Carmela's  accounts,  but  did  not  ask  how  much  money  she  had  been  given     in  the  first  place.  The  next  day  the  parents  departed,  leaving  Douglas  and  his  irritable  girl,  whom  Carmela  had  been  told  to  call  &quot;Miss  Hermione&quot;-  but  of  course  she  could  not  pronounce  it.  Miss  Hermione  took  the  Unwins  bedroom,  Douglas  was  given  Car-  mela's,  and  Carmela  slept  on  acot  next  to  the  twins.  Every  night,  Miss  Her-  mione  said  &quot;No,  I  said  #0&quot;  to  Douglas  and  slammed  her  door.  Carmela  sup-  posed  she  sat  behind  the  door  em-  broidering.  She  also  ate  things  she  had  brought  in  her  suitcase.  Carmela,  who  made  Miss  Hermione's  bed  every  day,  discovered  chocolate  crumbs.  One  night,  when  Miss  Hermione  had  retired  and  was  eating  stale  chocolate  and  embroider-  ing  a  cushion,  Douglas  came  into  the  kitchen  where  Car-  mela  was  washing  up  at  the  stone  sink.  &quot;Like  some  help?&quot;  he  said.  She  knew  no  English,  of  course;  did  not  even  turn.  He  leaned  against  the  drain-  board,  where  she  had  to  see  him.  He  folded  his  arms  and  looked  at  Car-  mela.  Then  he  began  to  whistle  through  his  teeth  as  people  do  when  they  are  bored,  and  then  he  must  have  reachedup  and  tapped  the  light  bulb  that  hung  on  a  cord.  It  was  only  the  gesture  of  someone  bored  again,  but  the  rocking  shadows  and  the  tall  ugly  boy  whistling  were  like  Carmela's  sea  dream.  She  dropped  her  little  string  dishmop  and  ran  out.  She  thought  she  heard  herself  screaming.  &quot;Oh,  don't  pretend!&quot;  he  called  after  her,as  mys-  terious  as  his  mother  had  once  seemed.  He  was  bored;  he  said  so  the  next  day.  There  was  not  a  thing  to  do  here  except  stare  out  at  mountains.  He  went  downstairs  to  where  the  owner  of  the  house  lived,  and  together  they  listened  to  bad  news  over  the  radio.  He  could  not  understand  much  of  the  Italian,  but  sometimes  they  caught  the  BBC  broad-  casts,  and  when  Douglas  did  under-  stand  something  it  made  the  situation  seem  worse.  &quot;Oh,  let's  leave,  then,  for  God's  sake,&quot;  Miss  Hermione  said,  folding  her  canvas  neatly  twice.  Douglas  pressed  his  hands  to  his  head,  for  all  the  world  like  his  mother.  He  said,  &quot;I  don't  want  to  be  caught  up  in  it.&quot;  &quot;Military  life  won't  hurt  you,&quot;  Miss  Hermione  answered.  Without  em-  broidery  to  keepher  hands  busy,  she  kept  shifting  and  changing  position;  now  she  had  her  hands  clasped  round  a  knee,  and  she  swung  a  long  foot  and  played  at  pointing  her  toes.  The  day  they  went  off,  there  was  a  loud  windstorm.  They  paid  the  land- lord  to  drive  them  as  far  as  a  bus  sta-  tion;  Carmela  never  saw  them  again.  Miss  Hermione  left  a  green  hair  ribbon  behind.  Carmela  kept  it  for  years.  As  soon  as  these  two  had  vanished,  the  wind  dropped.  Carmela  and  the  twins  climbed  a  little  way  out  of  the  village  and  sat  in  deep  grass.  The  sky  held  one  small  creamy  cloud.  At  eye  level  were  lacy  grasses  and,  behind  them,  blue-black  mountains.  She  tried  to  teach  the  twins  the  alphabet,  but  she  was  not  certain  where  to  put  the  &quot;W,&quot;  and  the  girls  were  silly  and  would  not  listen;  she  did  teach  them  songs.  N  September  she  slipped  back  to  a  life  she  was  sure  of.  She  had  taken  its  color.  The  sea  was  greener  than  anything  except  Mrs.  Unwin's  emer-  ald,  bluer  than  her  sapphire,  more  transparent  than  blue,  white,  transpar-  ent  glass.  Wading  with  a  twin  at  each  hand,  she  saw  their  six  feet  underwater  like  sea  creatures.  The  sun  became  as  white  as  a  stone;  something  stung  in  its  heat,  like  fine,  hard,  invisible  rain.  War  was  somewhere,  but  not  in  4974616c79.  Be-  sides,  something  much  more  important  than  a  war  had  taken  place.  It  was  this:  a  new  English  clergyman  had  arrived.  Now  that  [REDACTED]  was  at  war  he  did  not  know  if  he  should  stay.  He  told  someone,  who  told  the  Unwins,  that  he  would  remain  as  long  as  he  had  a  flock  to  protect.  The  Unwins,  who  were  ag-  nostics,  wondered  how  to  address  him.  His  name  was  Dunn,  but  that  was  not  the  point.  He  was  not  the  vicar,  only  a  substitute.  They  had  called  his  prede-  cessor  &quot;''Ted,&quot;  straight  out,  but  they  did  not  propose  to  call  Mr.  Dunn  &quot;Hor-  ace.&quot;  They  decided  to  make  it  &quot;Pa-  dre.&quot;  &quot;Padre&quot;  was  not  solemn,  and  marked  an  ironic  distance  they  meant  to  keepwith  the  Church;  and  it  was  not  rude,  either.  CARMELA  understood  that  the  Un-  wins'  relations  with  the  rest  of  the  foreign  colony  were  endlessly  compli-  cated.  There  were  two  layers  of  Eng-  lish,  like  sea  shelves.  Near  the  bottom  was  a  shelf  of  hotelkeepers,  dentists,  people  who  dealt  in  fruit  and  in  wine-  not  for  amusement  but  for  a  living.  Nearer  the  light  dwelt  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  Marchesa,  and  people  like  Miss  Barnes  and  her  companion,  Miss  Lewis.  These  two  lived  in  mean  rooms  almost  in  the  attic  of  a  hotel  whose  owner  did  not  ask  them  to  pay  very  much,  because  Miss  Barnes  was  considered  someone  important-it  was  her  father  who  had  founded  village  schools  and  made  a  present  of  them  to  the  Italian  govern-  ment.  Between  the  two  shelves  the  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  Unwins  floated,  bumping  against  the  one  or  the  other  as  social  currents  flung  them  upward  or  let  them  sink.  Still  lower  than  any  of  the  English  were  Russians,  Austrians,  or  Hungarians,  rich  and  poor  alike,  whose  preoccupa-  tion  was  saidto  be  gaining  British  pass-  ports  for  their  children.  As  passports  could  be  had  by  marriage-or  so  the  belief  ran-the  British  colony  kept  a  grip  on  its  sons.  Mrs.  Unwin  was  heard  by  Carmela  to  remark  that  Hermione  had  this  to  be  said  for  her-she  was  English  to  the  core.  Mrs.  Unwin  still  smiled  sometimes,  but  not  as  she  had  in  August.  She  showed  a  death  grin  now.  When  she  was  excited  her  skin  became  a  mottled  brick-and-white.  Carmela  had  never  seen  Mrs.  Unwin  as  smiling  and  as  dappled  as  the  after-  noon  Miss  Barnes  and  Miss  Lewis  came  to  tea.  Actually,  Miss  Barnes  had  called  to  see  about  having  still  more  of  her  late  father's  poems  printed.  &quot;Carmela!  Teal!&quot;  cried  Mrs.  Unwin.  Having  been  often  told  not  to  touch  the  good  china,  Carmela  brought  their  tea  in  pottery  mugs,  already  poured  in  the  kitchen.  &quot;Stupid!&quot;  said  Mrs.  Unwin.   &quot;That  is  something  of  an  insult,&quot;  Miss  Lewis  remarked.  &quot;Carmela  knows  I   am  more  bark  than  bite,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Un-  win,  with  another  of  her  smiles-a  twitchy  grimace.  But  Miss  Lewis  went  on,  &quot;You  have  been  down  here  long  enough  to  know  the  things  one  can  and  can't  say  to  them.&quot;  Mrs.  Unwin's  face,  no  longer  mottled,  had  gone  the  solid  shade  the  English  called  Egyp-  tian  red.  Carmela  saw  the  room  through  Mrs.  Unwin's  eyes:  it  seemed  __  to  move  and  crawl,  with  its  copper  bowl,  and  novels  from  Eng-  land,  and  faded  cre-  tonne-covered  chairs,  and  stained  wallpaper.  All  these  dead  things  seemed  to  be  on  the  move,  because  ofthe  way  Miss  Lewis  had  spoken  to  Mrs.  Unwin.  Mrs.  Un-  win  smiled  unceasingly,  with  her  upper  lip  drawn  back.  Miss  Barnes,  in  a  wheelchair  because  she  had  sprained  aknee,  reached  across  and  patted  her  companion's  hand.  &quot;Charlotte  is  ever  so  bolshie,&quot;  she  re-  marked,  taking  on  a  voice  and  an  ac-  cent  that  were  obviously  meant  to  make  a  joke  of  it.  Her  eyes  went  smoothly  around  the  room,  but  all  she  chose  to  see  or  to  speak  of  was  the  copper  bowl,  with  dahlias  in  it  this  time.  &quot;From  the  Marchesa.  Such  a  pet.  Always  popping  in  with  flowers!&quot;  Mrs.  Unwin  cried.  &quot;4672616e6365s  is  a  dear,&quot;  said  Miss  Barnes.  &quot;Ask  Mr.  Unwin  to  join  us,  Car-mela,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Unwin,  trembling  a  little.  After  that  she  referred  to  the  Marchesa  as  &quot;4672616e6365s.&quot;  The  pity  was  that  this  visit  was  spoiled  by  the  arrival  of  the  new  clergy-  man.  It  was  his  first  official  parish  call.  He  could  not  have  been  less  welcome.  He  was  a  young  man  with  a  complex-  ion  as  changeable  as  Mrs.  Unwin's.  He  settled  unshyly  into  one  of  the  faded  armchairs  and  said  he  had  been  busy  clearing  empty  bottles  out  of  the  recto-  ry.  Not  gin  bottles,  as  they  would  have  been  in  [REDACTED],  but  green  bottles  with  a  sediment  of  red  wine,  like  red  dust.  The  whole  place  was  a  shambles,  he  added,  though  without  complaining;  no,  it  was  as  if  this  were  a  joke  they  were  all  young  enough  to  share.  In  the  general  shock  Miss  Barnes  took  over:  Ted-Dr.  Edward  Stonehouse,  rather-had  been  re-  patriated  at  the  ex-  pense  of  his  flock,  with  nothing  left  for  doing  up  the  rectory.  He  had  already  cost  them  a  sum-the  flock  had  twice  sent  him  on  a  cure  up  to  the  moun-  tains  for  his  asthma.  Everyone  had  loved  Ted;  no  one  was  like-  lyto  care  about  the  asthma  or  the  any-  thing  else  of  those  who  came  after.  Miss  Barnes  made  that  plain.  &quot;He  left  a  fair  li-  brary,&quot;  said  the  young  man,  after  a  silence.  &quot;Though  rather  dirty.&quot;  &quot;I  should  never  have  thought  that  of  Hymns  Ancient  and  Mod-  ern,'  &quot;  said  bolshie  Miss  Lewis.  &quot;Dusty,  I  meant,&quot;  said  the  clergyman  vaguely.  At  a  signal  from  Mrs.  Unwin,  Carmela,  whose  hands  were  steady,  poured  the  clergyman's  tea.  &quot;'The  changes  I  shall  make  won't  cost  any  money,&quot;  he  said,  pur-  suing  some  thought  of  his  own.  He  came  to  and  scanned  their  stunned  faces.  &quot;Why,  I  was  thinking  of  the  notice  outside,  (Even-  song  Every  Day  at  Noon.? &quot;Why  change  it?&quot;  said  Miss  Barnes  in  her     " b" wheelchair.  &quot;I  admit  it  was  an  inno-  vation  of  poor  old  Dr.  Stonehouse's,  but  we  are  so  used  to  it  now.&quot;  &quot;And  was  Evensong  every  day  at  noon?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  said  Miss  Barnes,  &quot;because  that  is  an  hour  when  most  people  are  beginning  to  think  about  lunch.&quot;  &quot;More  bread  and  butter,  Carmela,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Unwin.  Returning,  Carmela  walked  into  &quot;The  other  thing  I  thought  I  might  .  ..  do  something  about&quot;&quot;  -as  if  he  were  avoiding  the  word  &quot;change&quot;-'&quot;is  the  church  clock.&quot;  &quot;The  clock  was  a  gift,&quot;  said  Miss  Barnes,  losing  her  firmness,  looking  to  the  others  for  support.  &quot;The  money  was  collected.  It  was  inaugurated  by  the  Duke  of  Connaught.&quot;  &quot;Surely  not  Connaught,&quot;  murmured  the  clergyman,  sounding  to  Carmela  not  quarrelsome  but  pleasantly  deter-  mined.  He  might  havebeen  teasing  them;  or  else  he  thought  the  entire  conversation  was  a  tease.  Carmela  peeped  sideways  at  the  strange  man  who  did  not  realize  how  very  serious  they  all  were.  &quot;My  father  was  present,&quot;  said  Miss  Barnes.  &quot;There  is  a  plaque.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  I  have  seen  it,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;No  mention  of  Connaught.  It  may  have  been  an  oversight&quot;  -finally  responding  to  the  blinks  and  frowns  of  Miss  Barnes's  companion,  Miss  Lewis.  &quot;All  I  had  hoped  to  alter  was  ...I  had  thought  I  might  have  the  time  put  right.&quot;  &quot;What  is  wrong  with  the  time?&quot;  said  Mrs.  Unwin,  letting  Miss  Barnes  have  a  rest.  &quot;It  is  slow.&quot;     &quot;It  has  always  been  slow,&quot;  said  Miss  Barnes.  &quot;If  you  will  look  more  care-  fully  than  you  looked  at  the  plaque,  you  will  see  a  rectangle  of  cardboard  upon  which  your  predecessor  printed  in  large  capital  letters  the  word  'sLOw;'  he  placed  it  beneath  the  clock.  In  this  way  the  clock,  which  has  his-  torical  associations  for  some  of  us-my  father  was  at  its  inauguration-in  this  way  the  works  of  the  clock  need  not  be  tampered  with.&quot;  &quot;Perhaps  I  might  be  permitted  to  alter  the  sign  and  add  the  word  'slow'  in  [REDACTED];  He  still  thought  this  was  a  game,  Carmela  could  see.  She  stood  nearby,  keeping  an  eye  on  the  plate  of  bread  and  butter  and  listening  for  the  twins,  who  would  be  waking  at  any  moment  from  their  afternoon  sleep.  l  &quot;No  Italian  would  be  bothered  look-  ing  at  an  English  church  clock,&quot;  said  Miss  Barnes.  &quot;And  none  of  us  has  ever  missed  a  train.  Mr.  Dunn-let  me  give  you  some  advice.  Do  not  become  in-  volved  with  anything.  We  are  a  flock  in  need  ofa  shepherd;  nothing  more.&quot;  &quot;Right!&quot;  screamed  Mrs.  Unwin,  white-and-brick-mottled  again.  &quot;For  God's  sake,  Padre  ...no  involve-  ment!&quot;  The  clergyman  looked  as  though  he  had  been  blindfolded  and  turned  about  in  a  game  and  suddenly  had  the  blindfold  whipped  off.  Mr.  Unwin  had  not  spoken  until  now.  He  said  deliber-  ately,  &quot;I  hope  you  are  not  a  scholar,  Padre.  Your  predecessor  was,  and  his  sermons  were  agreatbore.&quot;  &quot;Stonehouse  a  scholar?&quot;  said  Mr.  Dunn.  &quot;Yes,  I'm  sorry  to  say.  I  might  have  or  that  came  and  ebbed  too  easily.  &quot;Perhaps  there  won't  betime  for  the  Greeks  and  the  He-  brews  [REDACTED];  he  said  gently.  &quot;We  ere  at  war,  aren't  we?&quot;  &quot;We?&quot;  said  Miss  Barnes.  &quot;Nonsense,  Padre,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Un-  win  briskly.  &quot;Read  the  newspapers.&quot;  &quot;[REDACTED],&quot;  said  the  clergyman,  and  stopped.  Mr.  Unwin  was  the  calmest  man  in  the  world,  but  he  could  be  as  wild-  looking  as  his  wife  sometimes,  At  the  word  &quot;[REDACTED]&quot;  he  got  up  out  of  his  chair  and  went  to  fetch  the  Union  Jack  on  a  metal  standard  that  stood  out  in  the  hall,  leaning  into  a  corner.  The  staff  was  too  long  to  go  through  the  door  upright;  Mr.  Unwin  ad-  vanced  as  if  he  were  attacking  someone  with  a  long  spear.  &quot;Well,  Padre,  what  about  this?&quot;  he  said.  The  clergyman  stared  as  if  he  had  never  seen  any  flag  before,  ever;  as  if  it  were  a  new  kind  of  leaf,  or  pudding,  or  perhaps  a  skele-  ton.  &quot;Will  the  flag  have  to  be  dipped  at  the  church  door  on  Armistice  Day?&quot;  said  Mr.  Unwin.  &quot;It  can't  be  got  through  the  door  without  being  dipped.  I  have  had  the  honor  of  carrying  this  flag  for  the  British  Legion  at  memorial  services.  But  I  shall  no  longer  carry  a  flag  that  needs  to  be  lowered  now  that  [REDACTED]  is  at  war.  For  I  do  agree  with  you,  Padre,  on  that  one  matter.  I  agree  that  [REDACTED]  is  at  war,  rightly  or  wrongly.  The  lintel  of  the  church  door  must  be  raised.  You  do  see  that?  Your  predecessor  refused  to  have  the  door  changed.  I  can't  think  why.  It  is  worthless  as  architecture.&quot;  &quot;You  don't  mean  that,&quot;  said  Miss  Barnes.  &quot;The  door  is  as  important  to  us  as  the  time  of  Evensong.&quot;  Then  I  shall  say  no  more,&quot;  said  Mr.  Unwin.  He  stood  the  flag  in  a  corner  and  became  his  old  self  in  a  moment.  He  said  to  Carmela,  &quot;The  Padre  has  had  enough  tea.  Bring  us  some  glasses,  " b"will  you?&quot;  On  which  the  three  women  chorused  together,  &quot;Not  for  me!&quot;  &quot;Well,  I  expect  you'll  not  forget  your  first  visit,&quot;  said  Mr.  Unwin.  &quot;I  am  not  likely  to  ,&quot;  said  the  young  man.  Y  October  the  beach  was  windy  and  alien,  with  brown  seaweed-  laden  waves  breaking  far  inshore.  A  few  stragglers  sat  out  of  reach  of  the  icy  spray.  They  were  foreigners;  most  of  the  English  visitors  had  vanished.  Mrs.  Unwin  invented  a  rule  that  the  little  girls  must  bathe  until  October  the  fifteenth.  Carmela  felt  pity  for  their  blue,  chattering  lips;  she  wrapped  tow-  els  around  their  bodies  and  held  them  in  her  arms.  Then  October  the  fif-  teenth  came  and  the  beach  torment  was  over.  She  scarcely  remembered  that  she  had  lived  any  life  but  this.  She  could  now  read  in  English  and  was  adept  at  flickering  her  eyes  over  a  letter  left  loose  without  picking  it  up.  As  for  the  Unwins,  they  were  as  used  to  Carmela  as  to  the  carpet,  whose  tears  must  have  seemed  part  of  the  original  pattern  by  now.  In  November  Miss  Barnes  sent  Mrs.  Unwin  into  a  paroxysm  of  red-  and-white  coloration  by  accepting  an  invitation  to  lunch.  Carmela  rehearsed  serving  and  clearing  for  two  days.  The  meal  went  off  without  any  major  up-  set,  though  Carmela  did  stand  staring  when  Miss  Barnes  suddenly  began  to  scream,  &quot;Chicken!  Chicken!  How  wonderful!  Chicken!&quot;  Miss  Barnes  did  not  seem  to  know  why  she  was  say-  ing  this;  she  finally  became  conscious  that  her  hands  were  in  the  air  and  brought  them  down.  After  that,  Car-  mela  thought  of  her  as  &quot;Miss  Chick-  en.&quot;  That  day  Carmela  heard,  from  Miss  Chicken,  &quot;Hitler  will  never  make  the  Italians  race-minded.  They  haven't  it  in  them.&quot;  Then,  &quot;Of  course,  Italian  men  are  not  to  be  taken  seriously,&quot;  from  Miss  Lewis,  fanning  herself  ab-  sently  with  her  little  beaded  handbag,  and  smiling  at  some  past  secret  ex-  perience.  Still  later,  Carmela  heard  Miss  Barnes  saying  firmly,  &quot;Charlotte  is  mistaken.  Latins  talk,  but  they  would  never  hurt  a  fly.&quot;  Carmela  also  learned,  that  day,  that  the  first  sermon  the  new  clergyman  had  preached  was  about  chastity,  the  second  on  duty,  the  third  on  self-dis-  cipline.  But  the  fourth  sermon  was  on  tolerance-''slippery  ground,&quot;  in  Mrs.  Unwin's  opinion.  And  on  the  eleventh  of  November,  at  a  special  service  sparsely  attended,  flag  and  all,  by  such  members  of  the  British  Legion  as  had  not  fled,  he  had  preached  pacifism.  Well-4974616c79  was  at  peace,  so  it  was  all  right.  But  there  had  been  two  police-  men  in  mufti,  posing  as  Anglican  pa-  rishioners.  Luckily  they  did  not  seem  to  understand  any  English.  &quot;'The  Padre  was  trying  to  make  a  fool  of  me  with  that  sermon,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Unwin.  &quot;Why  you,  Ellen?&quot;  said  her  hus-  band.  &quot;Because  he  knows  my  views,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Unwin.  &quot;I've  had  courage  enough  to  voice  them.&quot;  Miss  Lewis  looked  as  if  she  had  bet-  ter  say  nothing;  then  she  decided  to  remark,  in  a  distant,  squeaky  voice,  &quot;I  don't  see  why  an  agnostic  ever  goes  to  church  at  all.&quot;  'To  see  what  he  is  up  to,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Unwin.  &quot;Surely  the  police  were  there  for  that?&quot;  Mr.  Unwin  said  he  had  refused  to  attend  the  Armistice  Day  service;  the  matter  of  flag  dipping  had  never  been  settled.  &quot;I  have  written  the  Padre  a  letter,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Unwin.  &quot;What  do  we  care  about  the  Greek  this  and  the  Hebrew  that?  We  are  all  living  on  dwindled  incomes  and  wondering  how  to  sur-  vive.  Mussolini  has  brought  order  and  peace  to  this  country,  whether  Mr.  Dunn  likes  it  or  not.&quot;  &quot;Hear,  hear,&quot;  said  Miss  Chicken.  Mr.  Unwin  nodded  in  slow  agree-  ment.  Miss  Lewis  looked  into  space  and  pursed  her  lips,  like  someone  counting  the  chimes  ofa  clock.  IV  IN  spite  of  the  electricity  rates,  the  kitchen  light  had  to  go  on  at  four  o'clock.  Carmela,  lifting  her  hand  to  the  shelf  of  tea  mugs,  cast  a  shadow.  At  night  she  slept  with  her  black  cardi-  gan  round  her  legs.  When  she  put  a  foot  on  the  tiled  floor  she  trembled  with  cold  and  with  fear.  She  was  afraid  of  the  war  and  of  the  ghost  of  the  un-  cle,  which,  encouraged  by  early  dark-  ness,  could  be  seen  in  the  garden  again.  Half  the  villas  along  the  hill  were  shut-  tered.  She  looked  at  a  faraway  sea,  lighted  bya  sun  twice  as  far  off  as  it  had  ever  been  before.  The  Marchesa  was  having  a  bomb  shelter  built  in  her  garden.  To  make  way  for  it,  her  rose  garden  had  been  torn  out  by  the  roots.  So  far  only  a  muddy  oblong  shape,  like  the  start  of  a  large  grave,  could  be  seen  from  the  Unwins'  kitchen.  Progress  on  it  was  by  inches  only;  the  men  could  not  work  in  the  rain,  and  this  was  a  wet  winter.  Mrs.  Unwin,  who  had  now  instigated  a  lawsuit  over  the  da-  tura  tree,  as  the  unique  cause  of  her  uneven  health,  stood  on  her  terrace  and  shouted  remarks-threats,  perhaps-to  the  workmen  on  the  far  side  of  the  Marchesa's  hedge.  She  wore  boots  and  a  brown  fur  coat  like  a  kimono.  Among  the  men  were  Carmela's  little  brother  and  his  employer.  The  employer,  whose  name  was  Lucio,  walked  slowly  as  far  as  the  hedge.  &quot;How  would  you  like  to  do  some  really  important  work  for  us?&quot;  cried  Mrs.  Unwin.  Mr.  Unwin  would  come  out  and  look  at  his  wife  and  go  in  the  house  again.  He  spoke  gently  to  Carmela  and  the  twins,  but  not  often.  There  were  now  only  two  or  three  things  he  would  eat-Carmela's  vegetable  soup,  Car-  mela's  rice  and  cheese,  and  French  bread.  Mrs.  Unwin  no  longer  spoke  of  the  Marchesa  as  &quot;4672616e6365s,&quot;  and  the  chauffeur  had  given  up  coming  round  to  the  kitchen  door.  There  was  bad  feeling  over  the  lawsuit,  which,  as  a  civil  case,  could  easily  drag  on  for  the  next  ten  years.  Then  one  day  the  dig-  ging  ceased.  The  villa  was  boarded  over.  The  Marchesa  had  taken  her  dogs  to  [REDACTED],  leaving  everything,  even  the  chauffeur,  behind.  Soon  after  Christmas,  the  garden  began  to  bloom  in  waves  of  narcissi,  anemones,  irises,  daffodils;  then  came  the  great  white  daisies  and  the  mimosa;  and  then  all  the  geraniums  that  had  not  been  up-  rooted  with  the  rosebushes  flowered  at  once-white,  salmon-pink,  scarlet,  pep-  permint-striped.  'The  tide  of  color  con-  tinued  to  run  as  long  as  the  rains  lasted.  After  that  the  flowers  died  off  and  the  garden  became  a  desert.  Mrs.  Unwin  said  the  Marchesa  had  bolted  like  a  frightened  hare.  She,  though  untitled,  though  poor,  would  now  show  confidence  in  Mussolini  and  his  wish  for  peace  by  having  a  stone  wall  built  round  her  property.  Lucio  was  employed.  Mrs.  Unwin  called  him  &quot;a  dear  old  rogue.&quot;  She  was  on  tiptoe  be-  tween  headaches.  The  climate  was  right  for  her  just  now:  no  pollen.  Dark-  ness.  Not  too  much  sun.  Long  cold  evenings.  For  a  time  she  blossomed  like  the  next-door  garden,  until  she  made  a  discovery  that  felled  her  again.  She  and  Mr.  Unwin  together  sum-  moned  Carmela;  together  they  pointed  to  a  fair-haired  boy  carrying  stones.  Mr.  Unwin  said,  &quot;Who  is  he?&quot;  &quot;He  is  my  brother,&quot;  Carmela  said.  &quot;I  have  seen  him  before,&quot;  said  Mr.  Unwin.  &quot;He  once  visited  me.&quot;  &quot;But  Carmela,&quot;  said  Mr.  Unwin,  as  " b"always  softly.  &quot;You  knew  that  we  were  looking  about  for  a  stonemason.  Your  own  brother  was  apprenticed  to  Lucio.  You  never  said  a  word.  Why,  Carmela?  It  is  the  same  thing  as  lying.&quot;  Mrs.  Unwin's  voice  had  a  different  pitch  :  &quot;You  admit  he  is  your  brother?&quot;  (KYeS.))  &quot;You  heard  me  saying  I  needed  someone  for  the  walls?&quot;  (\xe2\x80\x98YCS.,,  &quot;It  means  you  don't  trust  me.&quot;  All  the  joyous  fever  had  left  her.  She  was  soon  back  in  her  brown  kimono  coat  out  on  the  terrace,  ready  to  insult  strangers  again.  There  was  only  Lucio.  No  longer  her  &quot;dear  old  rogue,&quot;  he  spat  in  her  direction  and  shook  his  fist  and  called  her  a  name  for  which  Car-  mela  did  not  have  the  English.  THE  Italians  began  to  expel  for-  eign-born  Jews.  The  Unwins  were  astonished  to  learn  who  some  of  them  were:  they  had  realized  about  the  Blums  and  the  Wiesels,  forthat  was  evident,  but  it  was  a  shock  to  have  to  see  Mrs.  Teodoris  and  the  Delaroses  in  another  light,  or  to  think  of  dear  Dr.  Chaffee  as  someone  in  trouble.  The  Unwins  were  proud  that  this  had  nottaken  place  in  their  country-at  least  not  since  the  Middle  Ages-but  it  might  not  be  desirable  if  all  these  good  people  were  to  go  to  [REDACTED]  now.  Miss  Barnes  had  also  said  she  hoped  some  other  solution  could  be  found.  They  were  all  of  them  certainly  scram-  bling  after  visas,  but  were  not  likely  to  obtain  any  by  marriage;  the  English  sons  and  daughters  had  left  for  home.  Carmela  still  went  over  to  [REDACTED]  every  Friday.  The  fron-  tier  was  open;  there  were  buses  and  trains,  thoughDr.  Chaffee  and  the  others  were  prevented  from  using  them.  Sometimes  little  groups  of  foreign-born  Jews  were  rounded  up  and  sent  across  to  [REDACTED],  where  the  French  sent  them  back  again,  like  the  Marchesa's  shuttlecocks.  Jews  waiting  to  be  ex-  pelled  from  [REDACTED]  to  4974616c79  were  kept  in  the  grounds  of  the  technical  school  for  boys;  they  sat  there  on  their  lug-  gage,  and  people  came  to  look  at  them  through  the  fence.  Carmela  saw  a  straggling  cluster  of  refugees-a  new  word-being  marched  at  gunpoint  up  the  winding  street  to  the  frontier  on  the  French  side.  Among  them,  wearing  his  dark  suit,  was  Dr.  Chaffee.  She  remembered  how  she  had  not  taken  the  pills  he  had  given  her-had  not  so  much  as  unscrewed  the  metal  cap  of  the  bottle.  Wondering  if  he  knew,  she     looked  at  him  with  shame  and  apology  before  turning  her  head  away.  As  though  he  had  seen  on  her  face  an  ex-  pression  he  wanted,  he  halted,  smiled,  shook  his  head.  He  was  saying  &quot;No&quot;  to  something.  Terrified,  she  peeped  again,  and  this  time  he  lifted  his  hand,  palm  outward,  in  a  curious  greeting  that  was  not  a  salute.  He  was  pushed  on.  She  never  sawhim  again.  &amp;  HAT  is  all  this  talk?&quot;&quot;  said  Mrs.  Unwin.  &quot;Miss  Lewis  is  full  of  it.  Have  you  seen  anything  around  the  frontier,  Carmela?&quot;  &quot;No,  never,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I'm  sure  it  is  the  Padre's  doing,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Unwin.  &quot;He  preached  about  tolerance  once  too  often.  It  worked  the  Italians  up.&quot;  She  repeated  to  her  hus-  band  Miss  Barnes's  opinion,  which  was  that  Mussolini  did  not  know  what  was  going  on.  N  March  the  wind  blew  as  it  had  in  the  autumn.  The  east  wind  seemed  to  have  a  dark  color  to  it.  Twice  on  the  same  March  night,  Carmela  was  wakened  by  the  beating  of  waves.  At  the  market,  people  seemed  to  be  pick-  ing  theirfeet  out  of  something  grey  and  adhesive-their  own  shadows.  The  Italians  began  to  change;  even  the  clerks  in  thepost  office  were  cheeky  with  foreigners  now.  Mrs.  Unwin  be-  lieved  the  Padre  was  to  blame.  She  went  to  listen  to  his  Lenten  sermons,  and  of  course  caught  him  out.  He  preached  five  Lenten  messages,  and  witheach  the  season  advanced  and  the  sea  became  light,  then  deep  blue,  and  the  Marchesa's  garden  brighter  and  sweeter-smelling.  As  he  had  in  the  autumn,  the  Padre  start-  ed  off  carefully,  choosing  as  his  subjects  patience,  abstinence,  and  kindn\xc3\xa9ss.  So  far  so  good,  said  Mrs.  Unwin.  But  the  fourth  sermon  was  on  courage,  the  fifth  on  tyranny,  on  Palm  Sunday  he  spoke  about  justice,  and  on  Good  Friday  he  took  his  text  from  Job:  &quot;Behold  I  cry  out  of  wrong,  but  I  am  not  heard:  I  cry  aloud,  but  there  is  no  judgment.&quot;  On  Easter  Sunday  he  mentioned  Hitler  by  name.  Mrs.  Unwin  looked  up  the  Good  Friday  text  and  found  at  thetop  of  the  page  &quot;Job  complaineth  of  his  friends'  cruelty.&quot;  She  read  it  out  to  her  hus-  band,  adding,  &quot;'That  was  meant  for  me.&quot;  &quot;Why  you?&quot;  &quot;Because  I  have  hit,  and  where  I  hit  TI  hit  hard,&quot;  she  cried.  &quot;What  have  you  been  up  to?&quot;  His  voice  rose  as  much  as  ever  it  could  or  would.  He  noticed  Carmela  and  fell  silent.  Late  in  May,  Mrs.  Unwin  won  her  case  against  the  Marchesa.  There  was  no  precedent  for  the  speed  of  the  deci-  sion.  Mr.  Unwin  thought  the  courts  were  bored  with  the  case,  but  his  wife  took  it  to  mean  compensation  for  the  Unwins'  having  not  run  away.  All  the  datura  branches  overhanging  the  Un-  wins'  garden  were  to  be  lopped  off,  and  if  Mrs.  Unwin's  headaches  per-  sisted  the  tree  was  to  becut  down.  The  Unwins  hired  a  man  to  do  the  pruning,  but  it  was  a  small  triumph,  for  the  Marchesa  was  not  there  to  watch.  The  night  before  the  man  arrived  to  prune  the  tree,  a  warship  sent  play-  ful  searchlights  over  the  hills  and  the  town.  The  shore  was  lit  as  if  with  strings  of  yellow  lanterns.  The  scent  ofthe  datura  rose  in  the  air  like  a  bon-  fire.  Mrs.  Unwin  suddenly  said,  &quot;Oh,  what  does  it  matter  now?&quot;  Perhaps  it  was  not  the  datura  that  was  responsible  after  all.  But  in  the  morning,  when  the  man  came  with  an  axe  and  a  saw,  he  would  not  be  dismissed.  He  said,  &quot;You  sent  for  me  and  I  am  here.&quot;  Carmela  had  never  seen  him  before.  He  told  her  she  had  no  business  to  be  working  for  foreigners  and  that  soon  there  would  be  none  left.  He  hacked  a  hole  through  the  hedge  and  began  to  saw  at  the  base  of  the  datura.  ''That's  not  our  property!&quot;  Mrs.  Unwin  cried.  The  man  said,  &quot;You  hired  me  and  I  am  here,&quot;  and  kept  on  sawing.  On  the  road  where  the  chauffeur  had  walked  the  Marchesa's  dogs,  a  convoy  of  army  lorries  moved  like  crabs  on  the  floor  of  the  sea.  V  HE  frontier  was  tightened  on  both  sides  for  Jews-even  those  who  were  not  refugees.  Some  of  the  refugees  set  off  for  Monaco  by  fishing  boat;  there  was  a  rumor  that  from  Monaco  no  one  was  turned  back  to  4974616c79.  They  paid  sums  of  money  to  local  fishermen,  who  smuggled  them  along  the  coast  by  night  and  very  often  left  them  stranded  on  a  French  beach,  and  the  game  of  battledore  and  shuttle-  cock  began  again.  Carmela  heard  that  one  woman  flung  herself  over  the  edge  ofthe  bridge  into  the  gorge  with  the  dried  riverbed  at  the  bottom  that  marked  the  line  between  4974616c79  and  [REDACTED].  Lucio  gave  up  being  a  stone-  mason  and  bought  a  part  interest  in  a  fishing  boat.  He  took  Carmela's  broth-  er  along.  Carmela's  mother  was  given  notice  that  the  hotel  where  she  worked  was  to  close.  She  sent  a  message  to  Carmela  " b"telling  her  to  stay  where  she  was  for  as  long  as  the  Unwins  could  keep  her,  for  at  home  they  would  be  sorely  in  need  of  money  now.  Carmela's  brother  was  perhaps  earning  something  with  the  boat  traffic  of  Jews,  but  how  long  could  it  last?  And  what  was  the  little  boy's  share?  Carmela  heard  from  someone  in  the  local  market  that  all  foreigners  were  to  be  interned-even  Miss  Barnes.  She  gave  a  hint  about  it,  because  her  own  situation  depended  on  the  Unwins'  now.  Mrs.  Unwin  scolded  Carmela  for  spreading  rumors.  That  very  day,  the  Unwins'  mimeograph  machine  was  seized  and  carried  away,  though  whether  for  debts  or  politics  Carmela  could  not  be  sure.  Along  with  the  ma-  chine  the  provincial  police  confiscated  a  pile  of  tracts  that  had  been  ordered  by  the  British  Legion  and  had  to  do  with  a  garden  party  on  the  twenty-fourth  of  May,  the  birthday  of  Queen  Victoria.  The  deepest  official  suspicion  now  sur-  rounded  this  celebration,  although  in  the  past  the  Italian  military  commander  of  the  region  had  always  attended  with  his  wife  and  daughters.  Then  the  print-  ing  shop  was  suddenly  padlocked  and  sealed.  Mr.  Unwin  was  obliged  to  go  to  the  police  station  and  explain  that  he  had  paid  his  taxes  and  had  not  printed  anything  that  was  illegal  or  opposed  to  Mussolini.  While  he  was  away,  a  car-  load  of  civil  guards  arrived  and  pound-  ed  on  the  door.  &quot;'They  don't  even  speak  good  Ital-  ian,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Unwin.  &quot;Here,  Car-  mela-find  out  what  they  want.&quot;  But  they  were  Calabrians  and  quite  foreign  to  Carmela,  in  spite  of  her  Sicilian  grandmother.  She  told  Mrs.  Unwin  shedid  not  know  what  they  were  say-  ing,  either.  At  the  same  time,  shede-  cided  to  ask  for  her  wages.  She  had  not  been  paid  after  the  first  three  months.  Mr.  Unwin  returned  from  the  police  station,  but  nothing  was  said  in  front  of  Carmela.  The  frontier  was  now  closed  to  everyone.  Carmela  would  never  go  shopping  on  the  French  side  again.  When  she  mentioned  her  wages  Mrs.  Unwin  said,  &quot;But  Carmela,  you  seemed  so  fond  of  the  children!&quot;  Early  one  afternoon,  Mrs.  Unwin  burst  into  the  kitchen.  Her  hair  was  wild,  as  if  she  had  been  pulling  at  it.  She  said,  &quot;It  has  happened,  Carmela.  Can  you  understand?  Can  you  under-  stand  the  horror  of  our  situation?  We  can't  get  any  money  from  [REDACTED],  and  we  can't  draw  anything  out  of  the  bank  here.  You  must  go  home  now,  back  to  your  family.  We  are  leaving  for  [REDACTED],  on  a  coal  boat.  I  am  leav-  ing  with  the  children.  Mr.  Unwin  will  try  to  come  later.  You  must  go  home  now,  today.  Why  are  you  crying?&quot;  she  said,  and  now  she  really  did  tug  her  hair.  &quot;We'll  pay  you  in  full  and  with  interest  when  it  is  all  over.&quot;  Carmela  had  her  head  down  on  the  kitchen  table.  Pains  like  wings  pressed  on  her  shoulders  until  her  sobs  tore  them  apart.  &quot;Why  are  you  crying?&quot;  said  Mrs.  Unwin  again.  &quot;Nothing  can  happen  to  you.  You'll  be  thankful  to  have  the  money  after  Mussolini  has  lost  his  war.&quot;  She  patted  the  child  between  her  fragile  shoulders.  &quot;And  yet,  how  can  he  lose,  eh?  Even  I  don't  see  how.  Perhaps  we'll  all  laugh-oh,  I  don't  know  what  I'm  saying.  Carmela,  please.  Don't  alarm  the  chil-  dren.&quot;  For  the  last  time  in  her  life,  Carmela  went  into  the  room  she  had  shared  with  a  ghost  and  a  demon.  She  knew  that  her  mother  would  never  be-  lieve  her  story  and  that  she  would  beat  her.  &quot;Goodbye,  little  girls,&quot;  she  said,  though  they  were  out  of  earshot.  In  this  way  she  took  leave  without  alarm-  ing  them.  She  packed  and  went  back  to  the  kitchen,  for  want  of  knowing  where  to  go.  All  this  had  happened  while  Carmela  was  clearing  away  after  lunch.  The  larder  was  still  unlocked.  She  took  a  loaf  of  bread  and  cut  it  in  three  pieces  and  hid  the  pieces  in  her  case.  Many  years  later,  it  came  to  her  that  in  lieu  of  wages  she  should  have  taken  a  stone  from  the  leather  box.  Only  fear  would  have  kept  her  from  doing  it,  if  she  had  thought  of  it.  For  the  last  time,  she  looked  out  over  the  Marchesa's  shuttered  villa.  It  had  al-  ready  been  looted  twice.  Each  time,  the  police  had  come  and  walkedaround  and  gone  away  again.  The.deep  pit  of  the  unfinished  bomb  shelter  was  used  by  all  the  neighborhood  as  a  dump  for  unwanted  litters  of  kittens.  The  chauf-  feur  had  prowled  for  a  bit,  himself  something  of  a  cat,  and  then  he  van-  ished,  too.  When  Mrs.  Unwin  searched  Car-  mela's  case-Carmela  expected  that;  everyone  did  it  with  servants-she  found  the  bread,  looked  at  it  without  understanding,  and  closed  the  lid.  Car-  mela  waited  to  be  told  more.  Mrs.  Un-  win  kissed  her  forehead  and  said,  &quot;Best  of  luck.  We  are  all  going  to  need  it.  The  children  will  miss  you.&quot;  Now  that  the  worst  was  over,  Mr.  Unwin  appeared  on  the  scene;  he  would  drive  Carmela  as  far  as  the  Nervia  [REDACTED]  bus  stop.  He  could  not  take  her  all  the  way  home,  because  he  had  only  so  much  petrol,  and  because  of  everything  else  he  had  to  do  before  evening.  This  was  without  any  doubt  the  worst  day  of  the  Unwins'  lives.  &quot;Is  it  wise  of  you  to  drive  about  so  openly?&quot;  said  his  wife.  &quot;You  don't  expect  to  hide  and  cringe?  As  long  as  I  am  free  I  shall  use  my  freedom.&quot;  &quot;So  you  said  to  me  years  ago,&quot;  said  his  wife.  This  time  Carmela  did  not  consider  the  meaning  of  her  smile.  It  had  lost  its  importance.  Mr.  Unwin  carried  Carmela's  case  to  the  car  and  stowed  it  in  the  luggage  compartment.  She  sat  up  front  in  Mrs.  Unwin's  usual  place.  Mr.  Unwin  explained  again  that  he  would  drive  as  far  as  the  Nervia  [REDACTED]  road,  where  she  could  then  continue  by  bus.  He  did  not  ask  if  there  was  any  connection  to  Castel  Vittorio  or,  should  there  be  one,  its  frequency.  They  drove  down  the  hill  where  Carmela  had  walked  to  the  local  mar-  ket  that  first  day.  Most  of  the  beautiful  villas  were  abandoned  now,  which  made  them  look  incomplete.  The  Marchesa's  word  came  back  to  her:  &quot;Hideous.&quot;  They  passed  Dr.  Chaffee's  clinic  and  turned  off  on  the  sea  road.  Here  was  the  stop  where  Carmela  had  waited  for  a  bus  to  the  frontier  every  Friday-every  Friday  of  her  life,  it  seemed.  There  was  the  caf\xc3\xa9  with  the  pale-blue  awning.  Only  one  person,  a  man,  sat  underneath  it  today.  &quot;Hallo,&quot;  said  Mr.  Unwin.  He  braked  suddenly  and  got  out  of  the  car.  &quot;Fond  of  ices,  Padre?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I've  spent  two  nights  talking  to  the  police,&quot;  said  the  clergyman.  &quot;I  very  much  want  to  be  seen.&quot;  &quot;You,  too,  eh?&quot;  Mr.  Unwin  said.  He  seemed  to  forget  how  much  he  still  had  to  do  before  evening,  and  that  he  and  the  Padre  had  ever  disagreed  about  tolerance  or  Hitler  or  dipping  the  flag.  &quot;Come  along,  Carmela,&quot;  he  called  over  his  shoulder.  &quot;These  young  things  are  always  hungry,&quot;  he  said  lightly,  as  though  Carmela  had  been  eating  him  out  of  house  and  home.  &quot;My  party,&quot;  said  the  Padre.  Mr.  Unwin  did  not  contradict.  There  they  were,  police  or  not,  war  or  not.  It  was  one  of  the  astonishing  things  that  Car-  mela  remembered  later  on.  When  an  ice  was  brought  and  set  before  her  she  was  afraid  to  eat  it.  First,  it  was  too  beautiful-pistachie,  vanilla,  tangerine,  three  colors  in  a  long-stemmed  silver  dish  that  sat  in  turn  upon  a  lace  napkin  and  a  glass  plate.  Carmela  was  further  given  cold  water  in  a  tall  frosted  glass,  a  long-handled  delicate  spoon  with  a  flat  bowl,  and  yet  another  plate  con-  taining  three  overlapping  wafer  bis-  " b"quits.  Her  tears  had  weakened  her;  it  was  almost  with  sadness  that  she  touched  the  spoon.  &quot;I  won't  have  it  said  that  I  ran  away,&quot;  said  the  clergyman.  &quot;One  al-  most  would  like  to  run.  I  wasn't  pre-  pared  for  anonymous  letters.&quot;  The  soft  complexion  that  was  like  a  girl's  flushed.  Carmela  noticed  that  he  had  not  shaved;  she  could  not  have  im-  agined  him  bearded.  &quot;Anonymous  letters  to  the  police?&quot;  said  Mr.  Unwin.  &quot;And  in  English?&quot;  &quot;First  one.  Then  there  were  others.&quot;  &quot;In  English?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  in  English.  They'd  got  the  schoolmaster  to  translate  them.&quot;  &quot;Not  even  to  my  worst  enemy-&quot;  Mr.  Unwin  began.  &quot;No,  I'm  sure  of  that.  But  if  I  have  inspired  hatred,  then  I've  failed.  Some  of  the  letters  came  to  me.  I  never  spoke  of  them.  When  there  was  no  reaction  then-I  suppose  it  must  have  been  in-  teresting  to  try  the  police.&quot;  &quot;Those  you  had-were  they  by  hand?&quot;  said  Mr.  Unwin.  &quot;Let  me  see  one.  I  shan't  read  it.&quot;  &quot;I'm  sorry,  I've  destroyed  them.&quot;  Carmela  looked  across  at  the  houses  on  which  work  had  been  suspended  for  more  than  a  year-a  monument  to  Mr.  Unwin's  qualifications  as  an  in-  vestor  of  funds,  she  now  understood;  behind  them  was  the  sea  that  no  longer  could  frighten  her.  She  let  a  spoonful  of  pistachio  melt  in  her  mouth  and  swallowed  regretfully.  &quot;Of  course  you  know  the  story,&quot;  said  Mr.  Unwin.  &quot;You  have  heard  the  gossip.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  listen  to  gossip,&quot;  said  the  clergyman.  They  had  no  use  for  each  other,  and  might  never  meet  again.  Carmela  sensed  that,  if  Mr.  Unwin  did  not.  &quot;Nothing  needs  to  be  ex-  plained.  What  matters  is,  how  we  all  come  out  of  it.  I've  been  told  I  may  leave.  My  instructions  are  to  leave.  Hang  them.  They  can  intern  me  or  do  whatever  they  like.  I  won't  have  them  believing  that  we  can  be  bullied.&quot;  Mr.  Unwin  was  speaking  quietly;  their  words  overlapped.  He  was  going  to  explain,  even  if  it  was  to  no  purpose  now,  whether  the  clergyman  had  any  use  for  him  or  not.  &quot;.  ..  When  we  did  finally  marry  we  were  so  far  apart  that  she  hardly  had  a  claim.  I  made  her  see  a  neurologist.  He  asked  her  if  she  was  afraid  of  me.&quot;  The  lines  of  age  around  his  eyes  made  him  seem  furtive.  He  had  the  look  of  someone  impartial,  but  stub-  born,  too.  &quot;Having  children  was  sup-  posed  to  be  good.  To  remove  the  guilt.  To  make  her  live  in  the  present.&quot;  They  had  come  here,  where  there  was  a  famou  s  clinic  and  an  excellent  doc-  tor-poor  Dr.  Chaffee.  Gone  now.  Between  her  seco  nd  breakdown  and  the  b  irth  of  thetwins,  somewhere  in  that  cleared-out  period,  they  married.  The  Church  of  [REDACTED]  did  not  al-  ways  allow  it.  Old  Ted  Stonehouse  had  been  lenient.  For  years  they  'd  had  nothing  but  holidays,  a  ho  liday  life,  al-  ways  with  the  puritan  belief  that  they  would  have  to  pay  up.  They  had  paid,  he  a  ssured  the  younger  man,  for  a  look  at  their  past-a  wrecked  past,  a  crip-  pling  acci  den  t.  At  times,  he  could  see  the  debris  along  the  road-a  woman's  shoe,  a  charred  map.  And  they  mar-  ried,  and  had  the  twins,  and  the  holi-  day  came  to  an  end.  And  she  was  be-  gi  nning  t  o  be  odd,  c  ruel,  drinking  stuff  out  of  teacups.  She  kept  away  from  the  babies.  Was  afraid  of  herself.  Kne  w  sh  e  was  cruel.  Cruel  to  her  own  gr  eat-  uncle.  Never  once  looked  at  his  grave.  Mr.  Unwin  had  been  to  the  grave  not  long  ago,  had  stung  his  hands  on  nettles.  &quot;O  h,  I'd  never  weed  a  gra  ve,&quot;  said  the  clergyman.  &quot;I  am  like  th  at,  too.&quot;  &quot;Well,  Padre,  w  e  choose  our  lives,&quot;  s  aid  Mr.  Unwin.  &quot;I  gave  up  believing  in  mine.  &quot;  &quot;Forget  abou  t  believing  in  you  r  life,&quot;  said  the  yo  unger  man.  &quot;Think  about  the  sacraments-whether  you  believe  in  them  or  not.  You  might  ar-  rive  in  a  roundabout  way  .  Do  you  See?&quot;  &quot;Arrive  whe  re?&quot;  said  Mr.  Unwin.  &quot;Arrive  at  what?  I  nev  er  get  up  in  the  morni  n  g  without  forcing  myself  to  get  ou  t  of  bed,  and  without  tears  in  m  y  eyes.  I  have  had  to  stop  shaving  some-  times  bec  ause  I  could  not  see  for  tears.  I've  watched  the  sun  risi  ng  thro  ugh  the  t  ears  of  a  child  left  in  his  first  school.  If  ever  I  had  taken  a  day  in  bed  nothing  would  have  made  me  get  up  again.  Not  my  children,  not  my  life,  not  my  country.  How  I  have  envied  Carmela,  h  ere-hearin  g  her  singing  at  h  er  work.&quot;  &quot;Well,  and  how  abou  t  you,  Car-  mela?&quot;  said  the  clergyman,  quite  glad  to  tur  n  his  attention  to  her,  it  seemed.  Carmela  put  her  spoon  down  and  said  simply,  &quot;I  have  just  eaten  my  way  into  heaven.&quot;  &quot;Then  I  haven't  entire  ly  failed,&quot;  the  clergyman  said.  Mr.  Unwin  lau  ghed,  then  blew  his  no  se.  &quot;Let  me  give  you  a  lift,  Padre,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'Think  twice  about  staying.  If  I  were  you  I  would  get  on  that  coal  boat  with  the  others.&quot;  a  l  'HEY  left  Carmela  at  what  they  both  seemed  to  think  was  a  bus  stop.  Mr.  Unwin  set  her  case  down  " b"and  pressed  money  into  her  hand  without  counting  it,  as  he  had  done  last  August.  &quot;The  children  will  miss  you,&quot;  he  said,  which  must  have  been  the  Un-  wins'  way  of  saying  goodbye.  As  soon  as  the  car  was  out  of  sight  she  began  to  walk.  There  was  a  bus,  but  it  was  not  here  that  it  stopped  for  passengers.  In  any  case  it  would  not  be  along  until  late  afternoon,  and  it  did  not  go  as  far  as  Castel  Vittorio.  Within  half  an  hour  she  was  in  a  different  landscape-isolated,  lonely,  and  dense-  ly  green.  A  farmer  gave  her  a  ride  on  a  cart  as  far  as  Dolceacqua.  She  passed  a  stucco  hotel  where  people  sometimes  came  up  from  the  coast  in  August  to  get  away  from  the  heat.  It  was  boarded  up  like  the  villas  she  had  left  behind.  After  Dolceacqua  she  had  to  walk  again.  The  villages  along  the  valley  were  just  as  they'd  been  a  year  ago.  She  had  forgotten  about  them.  She  did  not  want  to  lose  the  taste  of  the  ices,  but  all  she  had  kept  was  the  look  of  them-the  pink-orange,  the  pale  green,  the  white  with  flecks  of  vanilla,  like  pepper.  She  shifted  her  cardboard  suitcase  with  its  rope  strap  from  hand  to  hand.  It  was not  heavy  but  cumbersome;  certainly  _  much  lighter  than  one  of  the  twins. Sometimes  she  stopped  and  crouched  beside  it  in  a  position  of  repose  she  had  also  forgotten  but  now  assumed  nat-  urally.  This  was  a  warm  clear  June  day,  with  towering  clouds  that  seemed  like  cream  piled  on  a  glass  plate.  She  looked  up  through  invisible  glass  to  a  fantastic  tower  of  cream.  The  palms  of  the  coast  had  given  way  to  scrub  and  vineyards,  then  to  oaks  and  beeches  and  Spanish  chestnut  trees  in  flower.  She  remembered  the  two  men  and  their  strange  conversation;  they  were  al-  ready  the  far  past.  A  closer  memory  was  the  schoolhouse,  andDr.  Barnes  and  Mussolini  and  the  King  in  wooden  frames.  Mr.  Unwin  weeping  at  sun-  rise  had  never  been  vivid.  He  faded  first.  His  tears  died  withhim.  The  clergyman  blushed  like  a  girl  and  wished  Mr.  Unwin  would  stop  talking.  Both  then  were  lost  behind  Dr.  Chaf-  fee  in  his  dark  suit  stumbling  up  the  hill.  He  lifted  his  hand.  What  she  re-  tained,for  the  present,  was  one  smile,  one  gesture,  one  man's  calm  blessing. "