 b"THE  talk  turned  to  errors,  and  Zalman  the  glazier  said,  &quot;These  days,  you  can  make  the  worst  mistake  and  no  one  even  says  an  un-  kind  word  about  it.  That's  why  so  many  mistakes  are  being  made.  In  old-  en  times,  an  error  wasn't  treated  so  lightly.  The  Pentateuch  says  that  if  a  person  chops  wood  and  the  head  of  the  axe  slips  from  the  helve  and  slays  someone,  that  person  has  to  flee  toa  distant  city  or  else  the  victim's  relatives  may  take  revenge  on  him.  In  Radoszyce,  there  was  a  Squire  Za-  blocki-not  a  bad  man,  but  if  he  was  crossed  he  flew  into  awild  rage,  his  mustache  bristled  like  a  tomcat's,  he  began  to  wave  his  riding  crop,  and  whoever  was  close  by  got  it.  One  time  he  ordered  a  pair  of  boots  from  a  cob-  bler,  and  when  they  came  they  were  too  tight.  He  had  a  fire  built  and  he  burned  them.  It's  not  so  easy  to  burn  leather.  It  smokes  and  it  stinks  to  high  heaven.  He  ordered  the  cobbler,  Shmerl,  to  drop  his  pants  and  he  beat  him  bloody.  He  tore  a  fur  coat  to  shreds  because  the  furrier  sewed  a  hook  too  low.  It  finally  got  to  the  point  where  the  cobblers  and  tailors  refused  to  do  work  for  him.  Zablocki  was  al-  ways  befuddled,  and  he  made  a  good  many  mistakes  of  his  own.  One  day  he  wanted  to  go  to  Zelechow,  but  he  told  the  coachman  to  tike  him  to  Wegrow.  After  going  miles,  he  suddenly  realized  that  the  road  was  unfamiliar.  The  coachman  later  told  people  that  the  Squire  was  so  angry  he  punched  himself  in  the  nose.  &quot;He  had  tormented  his  wife  to  death.  It  was  already  after  the  emancipation,  but  he  used  to  flog  his  peasants.  He  would  shout,  'On  my  estate,  I  am  the  law.'  The  peasants  trembled  before  him.  He  even  terrified  his  dogs.  He  had  a  pack  of  hounds  the  size  of  wolves  and  each  one  had  a  name.  If  he  called  one  dog  to  the  table  and  another  came  instead,  he  locked  the  offending  dog  in  a  dark  room  for  three  days  and  nights.  &quot;The  Squire  was  constantly  involved  in  lawsuits-he  squandered  his  entire  fortune  on  them.  He  always  lost,  he  never  won.  He  would  appeal  to  Lublin  and  to  [REDACTED],  but  he  lost  there,  too.  Once,  the  Squire  received  a  lawyer  in  his  drawing  room  and  the  lawyer  asked,  'Your  Excellency,  may  I  smoke  a  cigar?&quot;     'The  Squire  said,  'You  may.&quot;  &quot;The  lawyer  took  out  a  cigarette  and  lit  it.  Cigarettes  were  still  a  novel-  ty  at  the  time.  The  Squire  had  a  cane  that  was  twisted  like  a  horn  andhad  a  silver  knob,  He  grabbed  the  cane  and  began  to  beat  the  lawyer.  The  lawyer  cried,  'What  have  I  done?&quot;  &quot;'I  gave  you  permission  to  smoke  a  cigar,  not  a  cigarette,&quot;  the  Squire  said.  'This  is  a  newfangled  fad  picked  up  from  the  French,  and  no  one  is  going  to  bring  any  damned  foreign  customs  into  my  house!&quot;  That  was  Zablocki  for  you.  &quot;He  had  a  daughter,  Zofia,  and  he  loved  her  like  his  very  life,  but  she  had  to  do  everything  he  told  her.  If  he  told  her  to  braid  a  blue  ribbon  into  her  hair  and  she  braided  in  a  green  one,  he  slapped  her  in  front  of  whatever  guests  might  be  there.  &quot;Because  of  his  reputation,  the  daughter  couldn't  get  a  husband.  Who  would  want  to  be  the  son-in-law  of  such  a  wild  man?  &quot;I  don't  have  to  tell  you  that  with  females  fashions  keep  changing.  Among  the  gentry  it  was  the  custom  for  a  lady  to  give  a  dress  she  had  worn  once  or  twice  to  some  poor  relative.  But  Zablocki's  daughter  had  to  wear  dresses  from  King  Sobieski's  time.  The  nobles  laughed  at  her  and  she  wasn't  invited  to  their  balls.  She  was  ashamed  to  be  seen  in  the  streets.  &quot;Now  listen  to  this:  One  time,  the  Czar's  uncle  or  brother-I  forget  which-  came  to  [REDACTED]  and  he  had  to  spend  the  night  in  Ra-  doszyce.  I  think  he  had  been  hunting  in  the  forests  near-  by.  But  where  could  such  a  dignitary  stay?  The  authori-  ties  called  on  the  Squire  and  told  him  that  he  had  to  put  the  prince  up  at  his  pal-  ace.  Zablocki  squirmed  like  a  snake,  but  [REDACTED]  had  lost  all  the  wars  and  among  the  Gentiles  might  makes  right.  He  was  forced  to  give  in.  His  marshal  or  steward  wanted  to  fix  up  the  quar-  ters  the  prince  would  have,  but  Za-  blocki  threatened  that  if  so  much  as  a  straw  was  picked  up  there  heads  would  roll.  &quot;When  the  prince  finally  arrived,  all  the  town  officials  and  the  priests  and  nobles  came  out  to  greet  him,  including  Zablocki.  The  Jews,  I  recall,  brought  bread  and  salt  on  a  silver  tray.  An  offi-  cial  presented  Zablocki  and  told  the  prince  that  he  would  be  his  host.  The  prince  began  to  mouth  compliments,  as  is  the  custom  among  the  gentry,  but  as  he  did  so  he  made  an  error  and  mispro-  nounced  the  name  of  Zablocki-he  called  it  Zaprocki.  &quot;When  the  Squire  heard  his  name  mispronounced,  he  cried  out,  'I  am  Za-  blocki,  not  Zaprocki!'  He  was  holding  a  document  he  was  supposed  to  read  to  the  prince  and  he  flung  it  to  the  ground  and  stormed  away.  You  can  imagine  the  commotion!  For  such  an  offense  a  whole  city  could  be  levelled.  The  top  official-the  maechalnik-fell  to  his  knees  and  the  priests  apologized  to  the  prince  by  telling  him  that  Zablocki  wasn't  in  his  right  mind.  The  Jews  be-  came  frightened,  too,  since  it's  the  rule  among  the  strong  to  vent  their  rage  on  the  weak.  The  Cossacks  took  off  after  the  Squire.  If  they  had  caught  him,  they  would  have  finished  him  on  the  spot.  But  he  hid  in  the  forest  until  the  prince  and  his  retinue  left.  He  came  home  tattered,  half  raw  from  mosqui-  toes  and  thorns,  and  wasted  as  if  from  consumption.  &quot;When  the  authorities  heard  that  he  was  back,  they  sent  the  police  to  drag  him  to  prison  in  chains,  but  Zablocki  armed  his  peasants  and  ordered  them  to  keep  the  Russians  out  of  the  court-  yard.  He  himself  loaded  a  rifle  and  went  to  an  attic  room,  and  when  the  Russians  came  near  the  gate  he  began  to  shoot  at  them  from  the  window.  Radoszyce  had  only  a  few  policemen,  and  they  didn't  want  to  risk  their  lives.  The  nechalnik  sent  a  courier  to  the  governor  asking  for  troops.  The  governor  said  he  would  telegraph  Pe-  tersburg.  He  let  the  courier  wait  a  week,  then  told  him  that  Zablocki  was  a  madman  on  whose  account  it  didn't  pay  to  shed  blood.  Apparently  those  in  command  didn't  want  to  bring  about  a  confrontation.  &quot;The  Squire  didn't  live  long  after  that.  He  got  an  infection  in  his  lungs.  Squires  from  far  away  came  to  the  funeral,  music  was  played,  and  Za-  blocki  was  praised  for  saving  the  Polish  honor-and  all  this  just  because  the  Russian  prince  had  made  an  error  in  pronouncing  his  name.&quot;  &quot;AN  error  is  no  trifle,&quot;  said  Levi  Yitzchok.  &quot;Because  Kamtsa  was  invited  to  a  banquet  and  Bar-Kamtsa  came  instead,  Jerusalem  was  destroyed.  If  a  scribe  makes  a  single  error  in  the  Torah,  one  is  forbidden  to  read  from  that  copy.  A  hundred  years  ago  or  maybe  earlier,  there  lived  a  scribe  in  Szczebrzeszyn  called  Reb  Meshulam.  This  Meshulam  was  well  known.  They  said  that  each  time  before  he  " b"wrote  the  Holy  Name  on  a  scroll  he  immersed  himself  in  the  ritual  bath.  For  all  his  fine  qualities,  he  charged  exorbitant  prices.  He  could  ask  five  guldens  or  more  for  a  couple  of  phy-  lacteries.  Poor  people  couldn't  afford  it,  but  the  rich  travelled  to  him  from  Bilgoraj,  Zamose,  Janov,  and  Hru-  bieszow.  He  had  a  handwriting  like  pearls.  He  used  ink  and  parchment  that  he  imported  from  Leipzig.  He  elabo-  rated  every  letter.  On  the  Sabbaths  and  holidays,  young  men  gathered  at  his  home  and  he  preached  to  them.  My  grandfather  was  one  of  them.  Usually  a  scribe  is  an  impractical  man,  but  Reb  Meshulam  had  a  head  on  his  shoulders  and  he  was  called  to  other  towns  as  an  arbitrator  when  there  was  a  conflict  among  the  community  elders.  It  seems  that  he  had  no  children-at  least,  I  never  heard  of  any.  &quot;In  Szczebrzeszyn,  there  lived  in  those  days  a  wealthy  man  named  Reb  Mottele  Wolbromer.  He  owned  a     house  in  the  marketplace,  and  he  dealt  in  grain  and  lumber.  Talk  started  in  town  that  something  had  turned  Reb  Mottele's  luck  sour.  First  he  got  sick,  then  his  wife  got  sick,  and  then  the  children.  He  had  a  granary  full  of  grain-suddenly  it  caught  fire  and  burned  down.  Reb  Mottele  sent  rafts  of  lumber  down  the  Rivers  San  and  Bug-the  storm  winds  scattered  and  crushed  them  and  he  had  great  losses.  It  is  said  that  when  a  person  is  as-  sailed  by  misfortunes  he  must  ponder  his  deeds.  Reb  Mottele  was  a  pious  man,  and  he  probed  his  conscience.  He  found  many  defects  in  his  conduct,  and  he  began  to  observe  frequent  fasts.  He  rose  earlier  to  study  a  portion  of  the  Talmud  before  morning  prayers.  He  gave  more  to  charity.  The  old-time  magnates  weren't  like  those  today.  But  nothing  helped.  &quot;As  if  he  didn't  have  enough  trou-  ble,  an  evil  spirit  invaded  his  house.  In  the  middle  of  the  night,  footsteps  could  but  yours  are  wonderful.&quot;  be  heard  and  wanton  female  laughter.  Doors  opened  by  themselves,  When  Reb  Mottele  went  to  bed,  some  in-  visible  being  dragged  the  bed  across  the  floor.  When  things  like  this  hap-  pen,a  person  tries  to  keep  it  secret.  It  doesn't  do  his  business  any  goodand  it's  certainly  no  asset  for  arranging  matches  for  his  daughters.  Besides,  one  thinks  maybe  it's  all  just  self-decep-  tion.  But  how  long  can  you  keep  the  truth  hidden-especially  in  a  small  town?  &quot;'There  was  a  maid  in  the  household  and  she  ran  away.  A  spirit  had  pulled  her  hair  and,  if  you'll  forgive  me,  soiled  her  with  filth.  Things  got  worse  from  day  to  day.  The  Dark  Ones  were  busy  in  the  attic.  All  night  long,  they  rolled  barrels  there.  &quot;One  Thursday,  Reb  Mottele's  eld-  est  daughter  kneaded  some  dough,  cov-  ered  the  slab  with  a  pillow  so  that  it  would  rise,  and  went  to  sleep.  She  woke  up  in  the  middle  of  the  night  to  " b"find  the  dough  beside  her  in  bed.  She  screamed  for  help  and  roused  the  fam-  ily,  My  grandmother-may  she  rest  in  peace-was  their  neighbor  and  she  found  out  all  about  it.  She  told  me  everything.  The  demons  had  turned  over  the  pots,  defiled  the  food  in  the  pantry,  poured  out  the  preserves,  and  even  thrown  the  Passover  dishes  down  from  the  attic.  &quot;One  evening,  a  demon  or  an  imp  rapped  on  the  window  with  such  force  that  half  the  town  came  running.  The  secret  was  public.  They  recited,  'And  let  there  be  contentment,&quot;  but  the  Evil  Ones  would  not  leave.  It  was  known  that  Reb  Meshulam  the  scribe  had  amulets  that  came  from  ancient  saints.  Reb  Mottele's  family  went  to  him  and  paid  the  high  price  he  demanded.  They  hung  the  amulets  in  every  corner,  but  this  only  excited  the  spirits  and  they  smashed  more  utensils  A  stone  fell  just  at  Reb  Mottele's  feet.  If  it  had  struck  him  on  the  head,  it  would  have  crushed  his  skull.  The  stone  had  fallen  from  the  beam  and  it  was  as  hot  as  if  it  had  just  come  out  of  the  fire.  &quot;When  trouble  comes,  all  kinds  of  strange  things  enter  the  mind  but  it's  hard  to  arrive  at  any  clear  conclusions.  It  just  so  happened  that  it  was  Thurs-  day,  when  the  beggars  come  calling  from  door  to  door.  A  wanderer  opened  the  door,  saw  the  commotion,  and  asked,  'What's  going  on?&quot;  &quot;The  wife  or  one  of  the  girls  told  him  the  story  and  the  stranger  asked,  'Have  the  mezuzahs  been  examined?  &quot;Reb  Mottele  was  washing  his  hands  in  the  kitchen  and  he  said,  'Per-  haps  he  is  right?&quot;  &quot;But  his  wife  argued,  'Reb  Meshu-  lam's  mezuzahs  don't  need  to  be  ex-  amined.&quot;  &quot;Still,  the  thought  stuck  with  Reb  Mottele.  He  ordered  all  the  mezuzahs  taken  down  and  he  read  them.  His  mezuzahs  had  carved  sheaths.  He  took  a  single  glance  at  the  first  mezuzah  and  cried  out  bitterly.  The  letter  dalet  in  the  word  'echod'-'one'-looked  like  the  letter  reish,  which  made  the  sentence  blasphemy.  Reb  Mottele  ex-  amined  the  other  mezuzahs  and  they  were  all  the  same.  It  is  possible  for  a  letter  to  peel  or  fade,  but  the  ink  on  these  was  fresh.  The  town  erupted  in  an  uproar.  Why  drag  it  out?  Whoever  had  one  of  Reb  Meshulam's  mezuzahs  found  the  same  error.  While  they  were  at  it,  the  people  checked  Meshulam's  phylactery  inscriptions  as  well  and  found  that  they  were  all  blemished,  too.  It  became  clear  that  Meshulam  was  a  secret  follower  of  Sabbatai  Zevi.  Members  of  this  sect  believed  that  the  Messiah  would  come  either  when  all  was  pure  or  all  corruption.  They  caused  Jews  to  sin.  They  defaced  holy  books.  They  threw  the  bone  ofa  corpse  into  the  house  of  a  man  of  priestly  de-  scent  to  make  him  impure.  In  former  times,  the  Council  of  Four  Lands  had  excommunicated  the  sect  with  blowing  the  ram's  horn  and  lighting  black  can-  dles,  and  it  was  assumed  later  that  only  a  handful  was  left,  because  many  had  converted.  Nevertheless,  some  were   still  active,  and  Meshulam  was  one  of  them.  &quot;I  forgot  to  mention  that  in  some  of  his  phylacteries  he  had  written  the  names  of  demons  as  well  as  the  name  of  the  false  Messiah,  Sabbatai  Zevi-  may  it  be  blotted  out.  If  Meshulam  had  been  in  town  at  that  time,  he  would  have  been  torn  to  pieces.  But  he  had  gone  to  Lublin  for  an  arbitration.  His  wife  was  a  simple  woman  who  didn't  know  her  left  hand  from  her  right.  A  mob  gathered  and  broke  all  her  win-  dows.  They  even  tried  to  tear  down  her  walls,  but  the  rabbi  stopped  them.  How  was  she  guilty,  poor  soul?  &quot;It  turned  out  that  Reb  Meshulam  wasn't  the  only  one  of  the  sect  in  town.  There  was  a  whole  gang  of  them,  and  when  they  saw  that  their  scandalous  deeds  had  been  uncovered  they  sent  a  rider  to  Lublin  to  warn  Meshulam  to  flee.  They  also  fled,  deserting  their  wives.&quot;  &quot;What  happened  to  them?&quot;  asked  Zalman  the  glazier.  &quot;They  all  converted.&quot;  &quot;Were  their  wives  allowed  to  re-  marry?&quot;  &quot;A  convert's  wife  is  considered  a  married  woman.  I  think  one  of  them  got  divorce  papers  from  her  husband.&quot;  &quot;Is  a  convert  allowed  to  divorce?&quot;  &quot;According  to  law,  he  remains  a  Jew.&quot;  MEYER  EunucH  closed  one  eye  and  with  the  other  he  stared  at  the  window.  He  said,  &quot;That  a  prince  makes  an  error  in  pronouncing  a  name  " b"is  little  wonder.  Perhaps  the  one  who  was  the  Czar's  uncle  considered  it  be-  neath  his  dignity  to  call  some  Polish  squireling  by  his  right  name.  The  Sab-  batai  Zevi  sect,  on  the  other  hand,  did  what  they  did  out  of  spite.  Those  weren't  errors  but  acts  of  malice.  But  I  know  a  story  of  a  true  error,  There  is  a  town,  Belchow,  that's  the  size  of  a  dot  in  a  small  prayer  book,  and  there  was  a  rabbi  there  called  Reb  Berish,  a  famous  scholar.  He  had  a  yeshiva  of  ten  students-no  more  and  no  less.  Rabbi  Berish  could  have  had  hundreds  of  students,  but  he  had  decided  that  ten  was  enough.  When  one  of  the  youths  became  engaged  and  was  about  to  leave  Belchow,  there  were  already  many  candidates  waiting  to  take  his  place  and  they  fought  like  the  dickens  to  get  into  Rabbi  Berish's  yeshiva.  Rich  men  from  all  over  [REDACTED]  came  to  Belchow  to  snatch  up  the  students  for  their  daughters.  When  I  was  a  boy,  Rabbi  Berish's  best  student  was  an  orphan  named  Gabriel  Makover.  This  Gabriel  came  to  love  Rabbi  Berish  and  his  method  of  learning  with  such  ardor  that  he  wouldn't  accept  an  out-  side  match  and  so  have  to  leave  Bel-  chow.  Belchow  is  a  poor  village,  There  was  just  one  rich  man  there-Reb  Hayim  Pinchever,  who  was  himself  a  scholar.  They  said  that  he  had  his  books  bound  in  silk.  He,  too,  had  once  been  a  student  of  Rabbi  Berish.  He  had  an  only  daughter.  None  of  the  rabbi's  children  had  lived  to  maturity,  and  he  was  without  an  heir.  To  make  it  short,  Gabriel  became  engaged  to  Reb  Hayim  Pinchever's  daughter,  and  all  Bel-  chow  danced  at  their  wedding.  It  became  clear  to  everyone  that  a  hundred  years  hence  Gabriel  would  become  the  rabbi's  successor.  &quot;Rabbi  Berish  had  written  commentaries  throughout  the  years,  but  he  didn't  want  to  have  a  book  published.  He  would  say,  'There  is  enough  food  for  the  moths  already  without  my  scribblings.  Since  he  was  in  his  sixties,  his  admirers  insisted  that  he  publish  at  least  one  book.  After  lengthy  dis-  cussions,  the  rabbi  con-  sented  to  publish  those  commentaries  he  thought  most  highly  of.  It  took  several  years  for  him  to  decide  what  was  worthy.  Well,  but  there  wasn't  a  printing  shop  in  Belchow  or  the  vicinity,  and  Rabbi  Berish  lived  in  terrible  fearof  errors  and  misprints.  By  then,  his  eyesight  was  almost  ruined  and  he  studied  from  what  he  knew  by  heart.  Gabriel  helped  him  in  every  way  and  rewrote  what  needed  rewriting.  Finally,  the  work  was  finished.  The  only  printing  shop  in  that  part  of  Po-  land  happened  to  be  in  [REDACTED],  and  after  many  warnings  Rabbi  Berish  banded  over  the  manuscript  to  Gabriel  to  give  to  the  printer  and  ordered  him  to  oversee  every  stage  of  the  job  so  that-God  forbid-no  error  should  oc-  cur.  Gabriel  promised  his  rabbi  that  he  would  read  the  proofs  ten  times.  &quot;There  is  a  saying:  'An  author  doesn't  die  of  typhus  but  of  typos.&quot;  His  father-in-law  gave  Gabriel  carfare  and  he  went  to  [REDACTED]  with  the  manu-  script.  Today  you  can  take  a  train,  but  in  those  timesa  trip  to  [REDACTED]  was  almost  like  a  journey  to  the  Land  of  [REDACTED].  On  the  way,  Gabriel  never  let  the  manuscript  out  of  his  hands.  &quot;In  [REDACTED],  a  former  student  of  Rabbi  Berish's  offered  Gabriel  a  room,  and  he  stayed  there  for  months.  He  stopped  studying  altogether  and  spent  whole  days  and  half  the  nights  at  the  printer's.  When  a  page  was  set,  he  counted  each  letter  and  word  as  if  they  were  ducats.  A  printer  doesn't  like  it  when  an  author  or  his  proxy  sits  on  his  head  too  much,  and  he  grum-  bled  and  played  tricks  on  Gabriel.  But  Gabriel  took  it  all  without  com-  plaint.  Even  after  the  book  was  printed  he  read  it  again,  word  by  word.  He  couldn't  find  a  single  error,  and  he  went  back  to  Belchow  proudly.  &quot;When  he  arrived  in  Belchow  and  handed  the  book  to  Rabbi  Berish,  the  rabbi  weighed  it  in  his  hand.  He  liked  to  joke.  He  said,  'Oh,  a  heavy  volume.  There'll  be  something  to  heat  the  oven  with  when  the  Messiah  comes.&quot;  &quot;During  the  time  that  Gabriel  had  been  in  [REDACTED],  Rabbi  Berish's  stu-  dents  had  presented  their  rabbi  with  a  powerful  magnifying  glass,  and  he  be-  gan  to  leaf  through  the  pages,  read  a  line  here  and  there,  mumbling,  'What  is  he  babbling  about,  this  author?  What  does  he  want?  Why  is  he  scribbling  such  nonsense?&quot;  &quot;Suddenly  he  became  silent  and  grew  white.  He  raised  his  brows  toward  Gabriel.  'So  you  want  to  be  a  rabbi?  A  shoemaker  you  should  be!  He  had  found  an  error  in  the  book-a  dreadful  error.  &quot;After  a  while,  Rabbi  Berish  felt  sorry.  People  were  standing  around.  He  had  shamed  the  young  man  pub-  licly.  He  began  to  beg  Gabriel's  pardon " b"and  told  him  that  it  didn't  matter-  little  children  didn't  die  from  such  errors.  But  Gabriel  was  crushed.  At  first,  he  was  speechless.  Afterward,  though,  the  master  and  his  pupil  spoke  together,  and  before  Gabriel  left,  the  rabbi  kissed  him  on  the  forehead.  Gabriel  promised  the  rabbi  that  he  wouldn't  take  the  matter  to  heart  and  that  he  would  come  to  the  yeshiva  next  day.  &quot;Gabriel  had  gone  to  the  rabbi  be-  fore  coming  home  to  his  wife,  and  his  father-in-law  and  mother-in-law  were  incensed.  How  couldhe  leave  a  young  wife  alone  for  so  long?  She  was  over-  come  with  longing.  And  now  that  he  had  returnedheshould  have  come  home  first,.  They  would  have  heaped  recriminations  on  him,  but  when  he  walked  intothe  house  they  grew  alarmed.  In  the  half  hour  at  the  rabbi's  he  had  grown  wax  yellow,  like  a  dy-  ing  man.  The  family  and  other  people  quickly  found  out  what  had  happened,  and  the  town  buzzed  with  gossip.  Still,  Gabriel  came  back  to  himself,  and  it  seemed  that  the  incident  would  blow  over.  After  all,  he  hadn't  killed  any-  body.  &quot;But  the  next  morning  when  the  familygot  up  Gabriel  was  missing.  He  had  left  in  the  middle  of  the  night  with  only  his  prayer  shawl  and  phylacteries.  A  Gentile  had  seen  him  at  dawn,  cross-  ing  the  bridge  that  led  out  of  town.  &quot;Well,  what  happened  in  Belchow  that  day  and  on  the  days  that  followed  you  can  figure  for  yourself.  Messen-  gers  were  hired  to  look  for  Gabriel,  but  he  couldn't  be  found.  Letters  were  sent  to  relatives.  The  young  man  had  van-  ished  like  a  stone  in  water.  Rabbi  Ber-  ish  was  so  distressed  that  he  told  his  students  to  go  back  home,  and  the  yeshiva  closed  down.  Rabbi  Berish  had  never  believed  in  fasting,  but  following  this  incident  he  began  to  fast  every  Monday  and  Thursday.  &quot;A  year  went  by.  As  a  rule,  when  a  wife  is  forsaken  she  grows  depressed  and  neglects  herself,  but  Gabriel's  wife  continued  to  help  her  father  in  his  business  and  her  mother  at  home,  and  her  spirits  stayed  cheerful.  There  were  rumors  in  town  that  she  knew  some-  thing  but  was  sworn  to  keep  a  secret.  And  that's  how  it  really  was.  One  day,  Gabriel  showed  up  in  Belchow  dressed  like  a  common  laborer  and  carrying  a  sack  on  his  shoulders.  This  time  he  went  straight  to  his  father-in-law's  house.  The  mother-in-law  opened  the  door,  and  when  she  saw  her  son-in-  law  all  dusty  and  with  a  sack  on  his  shoulders  she  started  to  cry  so  loud  that  the  neighbors  became  alarmed.  Ga-  brielsaid,  'The  rabbi  told  me  to  be-  come  a  shoemaker  and  that's  what  I  did.,&quot;  &quot;The  sack  was  full  of  lasts  and  tools.  On  the  night  before  he  went  away,  he  had  told  his  wife  what  he  was  going  to  do  and  had  sworn  her  to  secrecy;  oth-  erwise,  he  couldn't  have  managed  the  act  of  penance.  He  went  to  a  faraway  town  and  he  learned  shoemaking  there.  I  forgot  the  main  things:  he  had  left  his  wife  pregnant,  and  during  the  time  he  had  been  away  she  had  borne  him  a  son.  &quot;Rabbi  Berish  came  to  Reb  Hayim  Pinchever's  house  and  asked  Gabriel,  'How  is  it  possible  that  you  could  do  such  a  thing?&quot;  &quot;And  Gabriel  replied,  'Rabbi,  your  word  is  holy  to  me.  When  you  told  me  to  become  a  shoemaker,  I  had  to  be-  come  one.&quot;  &quot;Rabbi  Berish  hadn't  lost  his  tart-  ness  and  he  said,  'It's  a  miracle  I  didn't  tell  you  to  become  a  wet  nurse.&quot;  &quot;Gabriel  rented  a  shop  and  sat  down  to  cut  and  hammer  shoes.  No  words  or  arguments  could  dissuade  him.  Reb  Hayim  Pinchever  wanted  to  arrange  a  divorce,  but  his  daughter  warned  that  if  he  did  she  would  drown  herself  in  the  well.  The  fondness  between  the  rabbi  and  pupil  didn't  diminish  but  grew  even  stronger.  Gabriel  worked  by  day,  but  after  the  evening  services  he  went  to  Rabbi  Berish.  They  debated  learned  subjects,  and  Gabriel  wrote  down  his  teacher's  opinion.  It  turned  out  that  during  the  year  Gabriel  had  been  learning  his  trade  he  had  also  de-  voted  himself  to  the  Talmud  and  the  Commentaries.  If  you  want  to,  you  find  time  for  everything.  &quot;Rabbi  Berish  grew  so  enthusiastic  over  Gabriel's  intellect  that  he  com-  pared  him  to  the  ancient  Jochanan  the  shoemaker.  People  said  that  Belchow  had  never  had  such  a  shoemaker  as  Gabriel.  He  took  measurements  not  once  but  three  times.  He  used  the  finest  " b"leather.  Even  the  Gentile  landowners  ordered  boots  and  gaiters  from  him.  Rabbi  Berish  suffered  from  bad  feet  in  his  old  age,  and  Gabriel  made  him  a  pair  of  slippers  that  fitted  him  perfect-  ly.  Yes,  the  yeshiva  was  reestablished.  &quot;Rabbi  Berish  lived  nine  more  years.  In  the  last  few  years,  he  became  com-  pletely  blind  and  Gabriel  took  over,  answering  those  questions  of  religious  law  that  required  sight.  The  house-  wives  and  the  butchers  came  to  his  workshop  and  abided  by  his  decisions.  After  Rabbi  Berish's  death,  the  town  elders  came  to  Gabriel's  shop  and  de-  clared  him  the  rabbi.  He  took  over  the  yeshiva,  too,  and  ordered  the  students  to  learn  a  trade.  They  say  that  he  made  shoes  till  the  end  of  his  life,  for  those  close  to  him  as  well  as  for  the  paupers  in  the  poorhouse.&quot;  &quot;'That  means  that  some  good  came  out  of  this  error,&quot;  Zalman  the  glazier  observed.  Meyer  Eunuch  began  to  rub  his  hands.  &quot;There  are  no  such  things  as  errors.  How  can  there  be  errors  if  everything  comes  from  divine  sources?  There  are  spheres  where  all  errors  are  transformed  into  truth.&quot;  "