 b"THIS  month's  Junior  Science  project-constructing  your  own  atomic  device-is  being  offered  in  place  of  the  announced  roto-jet  toothbrush  kit,  because  the  public-health  authorities  haven't  finally  approved  the  new  brush.  The  atomic  device  is  on  a  slightly  higher  home-achievement  lev-  el,  but  you  ninth  graders  who  wanted  the  roto-brush  should  takea  crack  at  it  anyway,  because  an  atomic  device  has  just  been  made  in  [REDACTED],  a  place  that,  as  far  as  we  know,  has  never  pre-  viously  made  anything.  Before  we  start  to  guide  you  through  the  design,  a  word  of  caution.  What  we  have  urged  for  all  your  Junior  Science  experiments  also  ap-  plies  to  the  atomic  device:  Keep  safety  in  mind.  Never  forget  that,  like  your  chain  saw  and  your  motorbike,  an  atomic  device  can  bea  weapon.  We  know  that  you  don't  plan  to  use  it  to  end  the  world,  of  course,  but  even  withnuclear  devices  that  are  built  just  for  fun-like  the  ones  in  [REDACTED],  for  instance-normal  precautions  should  still  apply.  Also,  if  you  happen  to  have  already  built  an  atomic  device  onyour  own  within  the  past  sixty  days,  your  pedia-  trician  would  probably  want  you  to  take  a  pass  on  this  month's  project  and  wait  forthe  roto-  brush.  All  right,  now,  what  permissions  will  you  need?  The  patent  situ-  ation  on  the  atomic  device,  we're  happy  to  say,  is  all  clear  for  the  home  fissionist.  No  reason,then,  why  you  can't  make  a  few  extra  to  raise  some  money  for  the  Scouts,  say,  the  way  some  of  you  have  done  with  your  home  vasectomy  kits.  The  fission  device  (that's  the  fancy  name  for  it)  was  invented  by  a  man  named  Einstein  in  1939,  but  he  absent-  mindedly  neglected  to  file  with  the  patent  of-  fice,  so  the  plans  are  public  domain-just  like  the  paper  clip  and  the  wheel-and  no  lawyers  will  be  bother-  ing  you  in  your  base-  ment  or  garage.  Now  to  the  mate-  rials.  You  will  be  sur-     prised  and  amused  to  discover  how  little  you  will  require  to  make  an  ar-  chipelago  disappear.  You  will  need:  --1  cardboard  box,  about  the  size  that  cats  like  to  have  their  kittens  in  --1  metal  tube,eithera  spare  piece  of  plumbing  pipe  or  a  tennis-ball  can  (Wilson  or  Dunlop  are  best)  a  few  kilograms  of  uranium-235  or  slightly  less  of  plutonium-239  -four  sticks  of  TNT  (even  two  will  do)  -good  gloves.  Don't  be  flustered  by  the  need  for  U-235,  which  is  sometimes  tricky  to  get.  A  twelfth  grader  in  [REDACTED]  reports  that  plutonium-239  is  a  happy  alter-  native  and  can  be  made  by  just  a  little  messing  around  with  U-238  (which  your  family  dentist  might  be  able  to  get  for  you).  And  a  tenth  grader  in  Ten-  nessee  tells  us  that  those  of  you  who  are  lucky  enough  to  live  near  a  breed-  er  reactor  should  make  a  check  of  your  soil  and  your  drinking  water,  too.  It's  all  around  U.  (We  couldn't  resist  that  little  joke  because  we  don't  want  you  to  get  too  serious  about  the  subject  of  this  month's  project,  the  way  some  of  the  folks  in  your  smaller,  less  de-  veloped  countries  are  apt  to  do.)  Another  way  to  get  your  supply  of  U-235  is  simply  to  walk  into  your  nearest  nuclear-power  plant  and  help  yourself.  In  spite  of  anything  you  may  have  heard  to  the  contrary,  &quot;security&quot;  is  not  much  of  a  problem  at  these  friendly  neighborhood  stations,  and  if  you  just  explain  to  the  guard  at  the  gate  that  you  area  young  scientist  engaged  on  a  school  project  he  will  probably  let  you  go  right  on  in  and  help  yourself.  If  he  seems  suspicious  or  bad-tempered,  you  can  then  try  to  gain  admission  by  &quot;fooling  him&quot;  with  a  disguise  or  a  little  white  lie.  Tell  him  you  have  come  to  read  the  meter.  Tell  him  you  have  brought  the  water  softener  for  the  coolant.  Tell  him  ...  but  surely  you  need  no  further  tips.  A  young  scientist  is  ingenious  above  all  !  NCE  you  have  assembled  all  your  materials,  roll  your  U-235  or  plutonium  into  two  small  balls  about  the  size  of  kidney  stones.  If  you  have  no  collection  of  those,  check  the  size  of  a  maraschino  cherry.  A  cheerleader  in  Saint  Louis  tells  us  that  she  leans  to-  ward  butterball  size,  and  her  devices    " b"are  probably  every  bit  as  nice  as  496e646961's.  The  balls  should  now  be  fastened  to  the  inside  of  the  tube,  about  an  inch  apart,  with  some  good  old  Elmer's  glue.  Do  allow  them  to  touch,  or  you  will  run  into  the  problem  that  we  hear  some  scientists  have  had  in  Leba-  non.  (By  the  way,  if  your  dad  won't  let  you  have  his  tennis-ball  can,  use  a  container  for  Ping-Pong  balls-a  tip  we  pass  along  to  you  from  a  class  pres-  ident  in  Peking.)  Once  the  two  balls  are  fastened,  at-  tach  your  TNT  (with  plain  old  mask-  ing  tape)  to  the  outside  of  the  tube.  Are  you  beginning  to  understand  what  is  about  to  happen  here?  For  you  English  majors,  let's  review  the  live-  ly  events.  With  a  little  urging,  your  TNT  will  explode,thus  compress-  ing  the  shell  quite  forcibly  and  creat-  ing  what  we  call  an  implosion-which  is  a  pretty  and  useful  word,  don't  you  think?  Your  plutonium  will  be  &quot;jammed  together,&quot;  creating  what  we  call  a  critical  mass,  and  your  atomic  reaction  will  start.  It  is  something  you  will  want  to  photograph.  Use  \xc2\xa3/16  at  500.  Speaking  of  critical  mass,  many  peo-  ple  may  disapprove  of  your  making  this  device,  and  many  may  also  dis-  approve  of  your  setting  it  off,  even  though  our  lawyers  tell  us  that  there  is  no  international  treaty  that  binds  the  basement  fissionist.  Nevertheless,  why  don't  we  settle  for  just  building  the  device  this  month?  Then,  when  public  opinion  relaxes  a  bit,  we'll  give  the  word  in  a  later  issue  about  when  to  set  it  off-perhaps  in  a  way  that  can  do  something  for  the  Bicentennial. "