 b"AMERICANs  who  have  shared  the  discouraging  conviction  that  only  the  British  know  how  to  carry  on  a  high-class  intimate  corre-  spondence  (as  between  Harold  Nicolson  and  Vita  Sackville-West,  the  Brown-  ings,  and  Bernard  Shaw  and  anybody)  were  given  a  measure  of  hope  last  month  by  some  otherwise  tragic  news  out  of  Englewood,  New  Jersey.  When  the  sheer  weight  of  sixteen  years  of  billets-doux  to  each  other  collapsed  the  attic  floor  of  their  neo-Colonial  high  ranch  at  16  Maple  Lane,  burying  Olga  and  Fred  Mindig  under  eight  tons  of  high-rag-content  paper,  the  world  became  privy  to  a  remarkable  correspondence.  The  Mindigs'  literary  executor,  their  twelve-year-old  son,  Jay,  made  a  valiant  attempt  to  shield  the  work  from  curious  eyes,  but  one  clump  of  letters-they  werefrom  late  March  of  1962-spilled  from  the  window  of  the  guest  bathroom  and  scattered  across  Maple  Lane,  drifting  in  such  depth  against  the  front  door  of  No.  17  as  to  deny  access  to  that  res-  idence.  This  fortuitous  occurrence  made  public  the  awesome  dimensions  of  the  correspondence,  and  last  week  young  Jay  yielded  to  the  pressure  of  schol-  ars  and  publishers  and  signed  a  six-  figure  contract  with  Caconym  Press  for  publication  of  selections  from  his  parents'  letters,  to  appear  in  bimonthly  vol-  umes  over  the  years.  What  first  distinguishes  the  Mindig  correspondence  is  the  pair's  epistolary  fe-  cundity  with  each  other  in  the  face  of  other  heavy  calls  on  their  writing  energies.  Fred  was  the  editor  and  writer  of  Water  Cooler,  the  biweekly  house  organ  of  International  Products  Corporation.  Olga  wrote  a  daily  letter  of  at  least  ten  pages  to  her  mother  in  Mo-  line,  [REDACTED].  Each  also  kept  a  personal  diary,  a  volumi-  nous  garden  book,  and  a  will  that  underwent  con-  stant  revision.  Both  sub-  mitted  from  six  to  twelve  entries  weekly,  under  pseu-  donyms,  to  the  contest  in  New  Y  ork  magazine.  Once  a  week,  Fred  wrote  a  thoughtful  missive  to  each  of  the  three  news  maga-  next  nine  AND  YVRITE  FAST  zines,  and  everyother  week  an  angry  one  to  The  New  York  Review  of  Books.  He  was  a  frequent  contributor  as  well  to  trade  publications  in  the  fields  of  work  shoes,  home  swimming  pools,  industrial  ovens,  and  preventive  forestry.  Olga  always  had  a  novel  go-  ing,  although  she  apparently  never  sub-  mitted  any  of  her  twenty-two  finished  works  for  publication.  Finally,  each  wrote  a  daily  hortatory  letter  of  con-  siderable  length  to  their  son  at  school,  which  Fred  would  leave  for  him  at  the  principal's  office  during  the  lunch  hour.  What  is  perhaps  unique  in  this  pro-  digious  exchange  of  letters  is  that  Fred  and  Olga  Mindig  were  only  separated  for  four  nights  during  their  entire  mar-  riage-when  she  was  in  Englewood  Hospital  having  Jay.  (It  is  regrettable  that  a  careless  candy-striper  apparently  mislaid  the  six  letters  Olga  wrote  dur-  ing  her  brief  labor.)  Under  what  circumstances,  then,  did  the  Mindigs  write  each  other?  Even  a  cursory  examination  of  the  letters  pro-  vides  vivid  answers  to  this  question.  By  permission  of  their  general  editor,  Ella  Graham  Potash  (Jay  Mindig's  social-  studies  teacher),  the  following  material  has  been  selected  from  a  few  of  the  missives  written  during  a  single  week- thatof  October  11,  1970.  (Copyright  restrictions,  it  should  be  noted,  limit  the  presentation  of  anything  more  than  brief  excerpts.)  The  first  letter  is  from  Olga  to  Fred  (&quot;Fah&quot;  is  her  pet  name  for  him  and  will  occur  frequently.  It  is  an  abbreviation  of  Isfahan,  as  in  &quot;Isfe-  han  Mahisfahan,&quot;  or  &quot;Isfahan  is  half  the  world.&quot;  He  called  her  &quot;Isan&quot;-the  other  letters  making  up  the  name  of  the  fabled  city.  As  neither  ofthese  so-  briquets  comes  easily  to  the  tongue,  in  speech  they  tended  to  call  each  other  Freddy  and  Olg)  :  Is  there  a  still-life  less  moving,  more  earthbound  than  a  note  from  wifey  beside  a  salami  sandwich  in  a  Glad  Bag?  I  once  promised,  darling  Fah,  to  respect  your  lunchbox  as  a  temple  of  privacy,  and  yet  it  struck  me,  as  my  knife  passed  through  the  redolent  Genoa,  how  quickly  the  days  of  this  autumn  have  faded,the  leaf-  stripped  branches  exposing  the  crystalline  windows  of  the  adjacent  Kwik-Way  Laundry,  just  as  our  love  shines  every  day  more  clearly  in  the  unleafed  mar-  riages  that  surround  us  ...  From  Fred  to  Olga,  the  same  day:  ...  mimosa  and  snapdragon,  yellow  roses  and  African  violets.  Beyond,  a  blanket  of  anemones  (sounding  that  name  alone  can  weaken  my  knees).  And,  at  the  edge  of  my  vision,  spider  mums.  proud  yet  trembling.  What,  you  may  ask,  brings  Fah  to  Goodfried's  Floral  Shop  at  this  hour  of  day?  Dearest  Isan,  only  the  off  chance  that  Bert,  the  delivery  boy,  is  making  a  drop  near  Maple  Lane  and  will  slip  these  random  thoughts  under  our  door  before  the  winds  of  forgetfulness  chill  them.  Now  then.  If,  as  you  observed  over  Jell-O  last  night,  our  Presidents  come  in-  creasingly  from  wealth  and  wealth  from  energy,  isit  not  likely  soon,.  since  our  Chief  Executive  must  be  native-born  (and  Hawaii  is  further  from  [REDACTED]  than  [REDACTED]),  that...  Olga  to  Fred  (&quot;Icky&quot;  is  their  private  name  for  Jay,  short  for  Ichabod  Crane;  they  were  almost  certain  he  was  conceived  on  the  Croton  aqueduct,  south  of  Tarry-  town,  about  half  a  mile  from  where  [REDACTED]  Irving  lived  some  years  after  writ-  ing  &quot;The  Legend  of  Sleepy  Hollow&quot;):  Why  does  our  union  endure  when  so  many  are  dissolving  like  grease  under  Ajax?  To  paraphrase:  &quot;This  union  for-  ever-hurrah,  boys,  hurrah!&quot;  Icky  binds  us,yes,  but  so  do  myriad  inconsequentials-our  shampoo,  to  pull  one  example  from  the  unhealthy  air,  and  the  " b"disparate  ways  we  use  it.  When  you  uncurl  the  bottom  of  our  family  tube  tonight  to  administer  your  particular  squeeze,  and  find  therein  this  moody  mis-  sive  (wrinkled  in  celebration  of  the  every-  day),  you  should  take  it  as  awed  recog-  nition  of  the  infinite  choices  open  to  all  of  us,  and  how  Fah  and  Isan,  in  the  face  of  them  all,  continue  to  choose  each  other.  And  even  as  I  affirm  this  I  wonder  how  ...  Fred  to  Olga  (&quot;H.  J.&quot;  is  Hilda  Jonkle,  a  quondam  mah-jongg  com-  panion  of  Olga's):  The  words  on  that  sealed  journey  from  phone  to  ear  may  be  my  Isan's,  but  surely  not  the  music.  By  filtering  out  the  highs  and  lows,  Ma  Bell  cheats  me  of  you  and  delivers  a  flattened  burble  through  the  instrument  handlessly  locked  between  my  shoulder  and  head.  Andnow  this  poor  surrogate  for  your  sweet  voice  is  rising  toward  a  question,  and  my  pen  must  idle  while  I  give  myself  to  its  plaint.  Later:  You  launch  what  promises  to  be  a  full  history  of  H.J.'s  neuralgia,  and  I  am  free  atlastto  return  to  substance.  If  these  lines  affirm  a  tie  between  us  strong-  er  than  any  the  [REDACTED]  Tel.  Co.  might  de-  vise,  I  trust...  From  the  evidence  of  subsequent  interviews  with  Mrs.  Jonkle,  it  seems  likely  that  the  following,  from  Olga  to  Fred,  was  written  during  the  same  phone  call:  Your  voice,  miniaturized  toa  precious  jewel  I  would  proudly  wear  at  throat  or  navel,  continues  its  measured  appraisal  of  the  negative  income  tax  while  the  irate  citizens  of  Englewood  circle  this  glass  booth  bumping  the  walls  and  glar-  ing-creatures  out  of  Jacques  Cou-  steau's  nightmares.  Did  you  hear,  as  you  recounted  your  riposte  to  today's  Op-Ed  flummery,  the  piranha  here  who  shouted  through  a  crack  he  forced  in  the  door,  &quot;Write  your  shopping  list  at  home,  lady!&quot;  Shopping  list  indeed!  My  sudden  hip-thrust  againstthe  bent  hinges  gave  eloquent  response  to  his  kneecap.  But  the  reason  for  this  note-for  words  I  cannot  trust  to  spindly  wires  either  over-  head  or  underfoot-is  to  reply  with  max-  imum  reason  and  minimum  passion  to  your  2  [REDACTED]  pens\xc3\xa9e  folded  into  the  left-  over  poundcake.  If,  as  you  say,  life  is  not  unlike  a  radish.  how  can  one  help  but  no-  tice  that  its  crisp  resistance  to  the  bite  soon  gives  way  to  a  bitter  ...  Fred  to  Olga  (The  Grossbarts  were  old  friends,  the  relationships  Byzan-  tine.  Myron  &quot;Sonny&quot;  Grossbart  was  class  treasurer  at  De  Witt  Clinton  High  School  the  year  Fred  Mindig  worked  afternoons  at  Howard  John-  son's;  Olga  and  Janeen  Grossbart  [n\xc3\xa9e  Plange]  took  lessons  from  the  same  piano  teacher,  a  Mrs.  Wohl,  though  not  during  the  same  years;  Burt  Saxby,  a  friend  of  Olga's  father, and  Sonny's  uncle,  Howard  Voyteck,  nearly  became  partners  in  a  dry-clean-  ing  shop):  Can  you  stomach  the  sheer  brass  of  the  Grossbarts'  ordering  lobster  and  steak  when  you  and  I  are  on  filet  of  sole  and  steamed  tongue?  (This  note  will  be  diffi-  cult  enough  to  decipher,  written  as  it  is  under  cover  of  the  tablecloth,  without  the  additional  handicap  of  a  hand  shaking  with  rage!)  Yet  onyour  face,  darling  Isan,  I  detect  not  a  flicker  of  the  deep  re-  sentment  you  have  a  right  to  share  with  me.  I  have  decided  that  what  sets  you  off  from  the  Sonnys  and  Janeens  of  this  tired  globe  is  your  capacity  to  find  more  pleasure  in  steamed  tongue  than  they  do  in  all  their  lobsters.  And  so  when  you  read  this,  which  I  trust  you  found  in  your  menu  when  it  was  handed  you  to  choose  a  dessert,  I  implore  you  to  help  me  keep  in  check  my  own  thoroughly  steamed  tongue.  Letyour  orbs  pick  past  the  &quot;wood  grain&quot;  pepper  mill,  plastic  flowers,  and  velveteen  menu  cover  until  they  come  to  rest  on  my  own  worship-  ful  eyes.  Locked  in  a  gaze  that  shuts  out  Grossbart  mastication,  we  will  feast  upon  each  other  yet  again,  a  pair  of  Brillat-Savarins  nibbling  our  souls.  For  ...  Olga  to  Fred  (The  Engle  Acres  is  off  the  Palisades  Parkway,  less  than  two  miles  from  the  Mindig  resi-  dence): No  instrument  is  more  frustrating  to  a  writer's  purpose  than  a  motel  pen  and,  of  all  that  have  come  grudgingly  into  my  grasp,  surely  none  limp  and  stumble  like  the  perverse  tools  furnished  by  the  Engle  Acres.  Which  is  why  these  pages  have  been  so  few.  Andnow  I  hear  from  the  bathroom  the  imminent  end  of  prefatory  ablutions,  which  means  that  I  must  soon  cease  these  scrawls  and  turn  to  the  dreary  rites  of  adultery.  Let  me  add  in  haste  one  thought-for  you  will  be  long  asleep  when  I  arrive  home,  and  will  not  find  these  lines  deftly  posted  in  your  left  shoe  until  you  dress  in  the  morning  be-  fore  departing  forthe  office.  I  have  decided  it  was  not  your  crooked  smile-  the  left  corner  of  your  mouth  down,  in  recognition  of  the  existential  condition,  the  rightup,  in  tribute  to  your  fantasy  life-that  first  attracted  me  to  you  but  rather  the  ...  According  to  Publishers  W  eekly,  Volume  I  of  the  Mindig  correspond-  ence,  covering  the  turbulent  first  eight  days  of  their  honeymoon,  will  appear  in  an  initial  press  run  of  forty  thousand  copies.  It  will  definitely  be  in  the  book-  stores  in  time  for  the  Memorial  Day  weekend."