 b"WHEN  she  came  home  in  the  evening  from  reading  in  the  park  that  was  a  sort  of  an  is-  land,  the  sergeant  was  waiting  to  ask  her  questions  about  the  bullets.  He  had  two  of  them  in  the  cupped  palm  of  his  right  hand,  holding  the  hand  low  down,  secretively.  His  left  elbow  was  on  the  edge  of  the  white-scrubbed  kitchen  table.  The  golden  stripes  on  his  blue-black  sleeve  were  as  bright  as  the  evening  sunshine  on  the  old  town  outside.  He  was  polite,  almost  apolo-  getic,  at  first.  He  said,  &quot;I  hate  to  bother  yourself  and  your  aunt  and  un-  cle.  But  it  would  be  better  for  every-  body's  sake  if  you  told  me  where  you  got  these  things.  People  aren't  supposed  to  have  them.  Least  of  all  girls  in  a  convent  school.&quot;  There  were  six  of  them.  The  eve-  ning  Lofty  gave  them  to  her,  she  had  looked  at  them  for  a  whole  hour,  sit-  ting  at  that  table,  half  reading  a  book.  Her  uncle  and  aunt  were  out  at  the  cinema.  She  spread  the  bullets  on  the  table  and  moved  them  about,  mak-  ing  designs  and  shapes  and  patterns  with  them,  joining  them  by  imaginary  lines,  playing  with  them  as  if  they  were  draughts  or  dominoes  orprecious  stones.  It  just  wasn't  possible  that  such     MEADOW  harmless  mute  pieces  of  metal  could  be  used  to  kill  people.  Then  she  had  wearied  of  them,  had  put  them  away  in  an  old  earthenware  jugon  the  mantel-  piece,  and  after  a  while  she  had  for-  gotten  all  about  them.  As  she  wrote  to  me  from  [REDACTED]  thirty  years  later,  they  were  the  oddest  gifts,  God  knew,  fora  boy  to  give  to  a  girl.  HIS  is  how  the  park  was  a  sort  of  an  island.  The  river  came  out  of  deep  water,  lined  and  overhung  by  tall  beeches,  and  round  a  right-angled  bend  to  burst  over  a  waterfall  and  a  salmon  leap.  On  the  right  bank,  and  above  the  fall,  a  sluice  gate  regu-  lated  the  flow  ofa  millrace.  A  hun-  dred  yards  downstream,  the  millrace  was  carried  by  aqueduct  over  a  rough  mountain  stream  that  came  down  to  join  the  river.  Between  river  and  race  and  mountain  stream  was  a  triangular  park  of  five  or  six  acres,  with  seats  by  the  watersides  and  swings  for  children.  Her  favorite  seat  was  under  a  tall  conifer  and  close  to  the  corner  where  the  mountain  stream  met  the  river.  Because  bluebells  grew  in  the  woods  on  the  far  side  of  the  millrace,  the  place  was  called  Bluebell  Meadow.  When  the  river  was  not  in  flood,  a  peninsula  of  gravel  and  bright  sand  guided  the  mountain  stream  right  out  into  the  heart  of  the  current.  Children  played  on  the  sand,  digging  holes,  building  castles,  sending  flat  pebbles  skimming  and  dancing  like  wagtails  upstream  over  the  smooth  water.  One  day,  Lofty  was  suddenly  among  the  children-just  as  if  he  had  come  out  of  the  river,  which  is  exactly  what  he  had  done.  His  long  black  waders  still  dripped  water.  The  fishing  rod  he  held  in  his  left  hand,  while  he  expertly  skimmed  pebbles  with  the  right,  dipped  and  twiddled  above  him  like  an  aerial.  The  canvas  bag  on  his  back  was  sod-  den  and  heavy,  and  had  grass,  to  keep  the  fish  fresh,  sticking  out  of  the  mouth  of  it.  One  of  the  small  boys  was  doing  rifle  drill  with  the  shaft  of  his  net.  She  had  never  spoken  to  Lofty,  but  she  knew  who  he  was.  When  she  tired  of  reading,  she  could  look  at  the  river  and  dream,  going  sailing  with  the  water.  Or  simply  close  her  eyes.  Or  lean  back  and  look  up  into  the  tall  conifer,  its  branches  always  restless,  and  making  sounds  and  going  away  from  her  like  a  complicated  sort  of  spiral  stairway.  She  had  been  told  that  it  was  the  easiest  tree  in  the  world  to  climb,  but  no  tree  is  all  that  easy  if  you're  wearing  a  leg  splint.  She  was  looking  up  into  the  tree,  and  wonder-  ing,  when  Lofty  sat  beside  her.  His  waders  were  now  dry  and  rubbery  to  smell,  The  rod,  the  net,  and  the  bag  were  laid  on  the  grass,  the  heads  of  two  sad  trout  protruding-still-life  that  had  been  alive  this  morning.  Her  un-  cle,  who  kept  greyhounds,  argued  that  fishing  is  much  more  cruel  than  cours-  ing-somewhere  in  the  happy  river  were  trout  that  were  hooked  and  got  away,  hooks  now  festering  in  their  lovely  speckled  bodies.  She  thought  a  lot  about  things  like  that.  Lofty  sat  for  five  minutes,  almost,  before  he  said,  &quot;I  asked  Alec  Quigley  to  tell  you  I  was  asking  for  you.&quot;  &quot;He  told  me.&quot;  &quot;What  did  you  say?&quot;  &quot;Did  he  not  tell  you?&quot;  &quot;He  said  you  said  nothing,  but  I  didn't  believe  him.&quot;  &quot;Why  not?&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;You  had  to  say  something.&quot;  &quot;If  I  said  anything,  Alec  Quigley  would  tell  the  whole  town.&quot;  &quot;I  daresay  he  would.&quot;  &quot;He's  the  greatest  gossip  and  clash-  bag  from  hell  to  Omagh.&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  know.&quot;  &quot;You  could  have  picked  a  more  dis-  creet  ambassador.&quot;  The  words  impressed  him.  He  said,  &quot;It's  a  big  name  for  Alec  Quigley.  I  " b"never  thought  of  him  as  an  ambassa-  dor.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;What,  then?  A  go-between?  A  matchmaker?  A  gooseberry?&quot;  They  were  both  laughing.  Lofty  was  a  blond,  tall,  freckled  fellow,  with  a  pleasant  laugh.  He  asked  her  would  she  lke  a  trout.  &quot;I'd  love  one.&quot;  &quot;I  can  roll  it  in  grass  for  youand  get  a  bit  of  newspaper  in  McCaslan's  shop  up  at  the  waterfall.&quot;  &quot;Who  will  I  tell  my  aunt  and  uncle  gave  me  the  trout?&quot;  &quot;Tell  them  nothing.  Tell  them  you  whistled  and  a  trout  jumped  out  at  you.&quot;  He  left  his  bag  and  rod  where  they  were,  and  walked  from  the  apex  of  the  triangular  park  to  the  shop  at  the  an-  gle  by  the  waterfall.  He  came  back  with  a  sheet  of  black  parcelling  paper  and  wrapped  up  the  trout  very  gently.  He  had  long,  delicate  hands,  so  freck-  ledthat  they  were  almost  totally  brown.  The  trout,  bloody  mouth  gaping,  looked  sadly  up  at  the  two  of  them.  Lofty  said,  &quot;Td  like  to  go  out  with  you.&quot;  &quot;I'm  often  out.  Here.&quot;  So  he  laughed  and  handed  her  the  trout,  and  went  on  upstream  toward  the  falls,  casting  from  the  bank  at  first,  then  wading  knee-deep  across  a  shallow  bar  of  gravel,  and  walking  on  across  a  green  hill  toward  the  deeps  above  the  falls.  She  liked  his  long  stride,  and  the  rod  dipping  and  twiddling  above  him,  and  the  laden  bag-even  though  she  knew  it  was  full  of  dead,  gaping  trout.  She  knew  he  was  a  pop-  ular  fellow  in  the  town.  Yet  she  didn't  tell  her  aunt  and  uncle  who  exactly  it  was  had  made  her  a  gift  of  the  trout.  She  said  it  was  an  elderly  man  and  she  wasn't  quite  sure  of  his  name,  but  she  described  him  so  that  they'd  guess  he  was  a  well-known  fisherman,  a  jewel-  ler  by  trade  and  highly  respected  in  the  town.  Not  that  Lofty  and  his  people  were  unrespectable.  ONE  Sunday  in  the  previous  June,  in  an  excursion  train  to  Bun-  doran  by  the  western  sea,  she  had  over-  heard  Lofty's  mother  telling  funny  stories.  As  a  rule,  Protestants  didn't  go  west  to  Bundoran  but  went  north  to  Portrush.  The  sea  was  sectarian.  W  hat  were  the  wild  waves  saying?  At  Port-  rush:  &quot;Slewter,  slaughter,  holy  water,  harry  the  papishes  every  one,  drive  them  under  and  bate  them  asunder,  the  Protestant  boys  will  carry  the  drum.&quot;  Or  at  Bundoran:  &quot;On  St.  Patrick's  Day,  jolly  and  gay,  we'll  kick  all  the  Protestants  out  of  the  way,  and  if  that  won't  do,  we'll  cut  them  in  two,  and  send  them  to  hell  with  their  red-white-  and-blue.&quot;  Nursery  rhymes.  She  sat  facing  her  aunt  in  the  train,  and  her  uncle  sat  besideher.  They  were  quiet,  looking  at  all  the  long  beauty  of  Lough  Erne,  which  has  an  island,  wooded  or  pastoral,  for  every  day  in  the  year.  Her  aunt,  a  timid  little  woman,  said  now  and  again,  &quot;Glory  be  to  God  for  all  his  goodness.&quot;  Her  uncle  said  just  once,  &quot;You  should  see  Lake  Superior.  No  end  to  it.  As  far  as  the  human  eye  can  see.&quot;  Then  they  were  all  quiet,  over-  hearing  Lofty's  mother,  who  had  no  prejudices  about  the  religion  of  the  ocean  and  who,  with  three  other  people,  sat  across  the  corridor  from  them.  She  had  a  good-natured,  carry-  ing  voice,  and  really  was  fun  to  listen  to.  She  was  saying,  &quot;I'm  a  Protestant  myself,  Missus  dear,  and  I  mean  no  disrespect  to  confession,  but  you  must  have  heard  about  the  young  fellow  who  went  to  the  priest  to  tell  him  his  sins  and  told  him  a  story  that  had  more  women  in  it  than  King  Solo-  mon  had  in  the  Bible,  and  the  goings  on  were  terrible,  and  the  priest  says  to  him,  'Young  man,  are  you  married?&quot;  " b"And  the  young  fellow  says  back  to  him,  dead  serious  and  all,  'Naw,  Father,  but  I  was  twice  in  Fintona.  &quot;  The  train  dived  through  a  tunnel  of  tall  trees.  The  lake  vanished.  Sunlight  flashing  through  leaves  made  her  close  her  eyes.  Everybody  on  the  train,  even  her  aunt,  seemed  to  be  laughing.  A  man  was  saying,  &quot;Fintona  always  had  a  bit  ofa  name  for  wild  women.&quot;  Lofty's  mother  said,  &quot;I  was  born  there  myself,  but  I  never  noticed  that  it  was  all  that  good.  Nobody  ever  told  me.&quot;  SHE  opens  her  eyes,  and  the  sunlight  flickers  down  on  her  through  the  spiralling  branches  of  the  great  conifer.  Lofty  is  on  the  very  tip  of  the  peninsula  of  sand  and  gravel,  demonstrating  fly  casting  to  half  a  dozen  children  who  are  tailor-squatting  around  his  feet.  She  is  aware  that  he's  showing  off  to  im-  press  her,  and  the  thought  makes  her  warm  and  pleased,  ready  to  laugh  at  anything.  But  to  pretend  that  she's  un-  impressed  she  leans  back  and  looks  up  into  the  tree,  in  which  the  sunlight  is  really  alive,  creeping  round  the  great  bole-spots  of  light  leaping  like  birds  from  one  branch  to  another.  She  thinks  of  the  ombu  tree  that  grows  on  the  pampas  of  South  [REDACTED].  Its  trunk  can  be  anything  up  to  a  hundred  feet  thick.  The  wood  is  so  soft  that  when  cut  it  rots  like  an  overripe  melon  and  is  useless  as  firewood.  The  leaves  are  large,  glossy,  and  deep  green,  like  laurel  leaves-and  also  bitter.  But  they  give  shade  from  the  bare  sun  to  man  and  beast,  and  men  mark  their  way  on  the  endless  plains  by  remem-  bering  this  or  that  ombu  tree.  She  has  read  about  ombu  trees.  Her  own  tree  is  for  sure  not  one  of  them.  She  sits  up  straight  when  her  book  is  lifted  from  her  lap.  Lofty  is  sitting  by  her  side.  The  children  are  pointing  and  laugh-  ing.  He  must  have  crept  up  on  hands  and  knees,  pretending  to  be  a  wild  ani-  mal-a  wolf,  a  prowling  tiger.  He's  very  good  at  capers  of  that  sort.  His  rod  and  net  lie  by  the  side  of  the  burn.  It  was  April  the  first  time  he  sat  be-  side  her.  It  is  now  mid-June.  Her  school  will  close  soon  for  the  holidays,  and  she  will  no  longer  be  compelled  to  wear  the  uniform-black  stock-  ings,  pleated  skirt  of  navy-blue  serge,  blue  gansey,  blue  necktie  with  saffron  stripes,  blue  blazer  with  school  crest  in  saffron  on  breast  pocket,  blue  beret,  black  flat-heeled  shoes.  Even  Juliet,  and  she  was  very  young,  didn't  have  to  wear  a  school  uniform.  If  she  had,  4974616c79o  wouldn't  havelooked  at  her.  Not  that  they  are  star-crossed  lov-ers,  or  Lofty  any  4974616c79o.  They  haven't  even  crossed  the  millrace  to  walk  in  the  bluebell  woods,  as  couples  of  all  ages  customarily  do.  She  isn't  shy  of  walk-  ing  slowly  because  of  the  leg  splint,  but  she  knows  that  Lofty  hasn't  asked  her  because  hethinks  she  might  be.  That  makes  her  feel  for  him  as  she  might  feel  for  a  witless  younger  brother  who  was  awkward.  And  a  bit  wild:  for  a  lot  of  Lofty's  talk  doesn't  go  with  the  world  of  school  uniforms  that  are  mostly  Mother  of  God  blue.  What  the  saffron  is  for,  except  variety  of  a  sort,  she  can't  guess.  Lofty's  rattling,  rest-  less  talk  would  lift  Mother  Teresa  out  of  her  frozen  black  rigidity.  Lofty,  with  great  good  humor,  fin-  gers  the  saffron  stripes  and  says  that,  in  spite  of  everything,  she's  a  wee  bit  of  an  Orangewoman.  They  hold  hands  regularly.  Lofty  can  read  palms-a  variant  reading  every  time.  They  have  kissed  occasionally,  when  the  children  who  are  always  there  havebeen  dis-  tracted  by  a  water  hen  or  rat  or  leap-  ing  fish  or  a  broken  branch  or  an  ice-  berg  of  froth  from  the  falls.  &quot;Don't  look  now,&quot;  he  says  one  day,  &quot;but  if  you  swivel  round  slowly  you'll  see  my  three  sisters  in  action.&quot;  Beyond  the  millrace  and  against  the  fresh  green  of  woods  she  can  see  the  flash  of  colored  frocks,  the  glint  of  brass  buttons  and  pipe-clayed  belts.  In  those  days,  it  was  only  the  wild  ones  who  went  with  the  soldiers.  &quot;They're  hell  for  soldiers,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Between  the  three  of  them,  they'd  take  on  the  Germans.&quot;  Lofty  himself  reads  a  lot  of  military  books-campaigns  and  generals,  Na-  poleon  and  Ludendorff,  all  the  way  from  Blenheim  to  the  Dardanelles.  When  he  doodles,  as  he  often  does  on  the  writing  pad  she  always  carries  with  her-to  make  notes  on  her  reading,  to  transcribe  favorite  poems-he  doodles  uniforms,  with  every  detail  exact.  Yet  he  listens  to  her  when  she  reads  poetry,  or  the  splendid  prose  of  a  volume  of  select-  ed  English  essays  from  Caxton  to  Belloc.  &quot;'They're  advancing  on  us,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;They  have  us  surrounded,  enfiladed,  debouched,  and  cirecumnavigated.&quot;  &quot;We'll  tell  Maryanne  that  you're  with  another,&quot;  the  three  sisters  chorus.  The  three  British  soldiers  who  are  with  the  sisters  are  one  of  them  from  Sligo,  one  from  Wexford,  and  one  ac-  tually  from  Lancashire  in  [REDACTED].  They  all  talk  and  laugh  a  lot,  and  she  likes  them.  The  Lancashire  lad  climbs  right  up  to  the  top  of  the  conifer  and  pretends  to  see  everything  that's  going  on  in  the  town  and  tells  them  about  it-he  has  a  lurid  imagination.  Then  they  go  away  toward  the  waterfall,  still  laughing,  calling  back  about  telling  Maryanne.  She  asks  him  who  Maryanne  is.  Lofty,  who  clearly  likes  his  sisters,  is     " b"not  in  the  least  embarrassed  by  the  suggestion  that  he  has  another  woman.  &quot;Oh,  Mary-  anne's  nobody,  or  nobody  much.&quot;  &quot;She  has  a  name.  She  must  be  somebody.&quot;  She's  not  really  jealous,  just  curious.  &quot;Marvanne's  a  girl  I  met  one  day  on  the  road  beyond  McCaslan's  shop.&quot;  &quot;You  met  nobody  on  the  road?&quot;  &quot;She  was  wheeling  a  pram.&quot;  &quot;She's  married  to  Mr.  No-  body?&quot;  &quot;It  wasn't  her  pram.  She's  the  nursemaid  in  Mooney's,  the  fancy-bread  bakery.  There  was  a  lovely  smell  -of  fresh  bread.&quot;  &quot;Had  you  a  good  appetite,  apple  jelly,  jam  tart?&quot;  That  is  a  rhyme  to  which  children,  Protestant  and  Cath-  olic,  skip  rope  on  the  streets,  but  since  the  rest  of  itis  &quot;'Tell  me  the  name  of  your  sweet-  heart,&quot;  she  doesn't  finish  it  and  finds  herself,  to  her  annoyance,  blushing.  Lofty  doesn't  seem  to  notice.  &quot;There  were  twins  in  the  pram.  I  pushed  it  for  her  up  the  hill  to  the  main  road.  Then  she  said,  'I  bet  you  wouldn't  do  that  for  me  if  it  was  in  the  town,  on  the  court-  house  hill,  where  everybody  could  see  you.'  I  said,  'Why  not?&quot;  And  she  said,  'Christian  Brothers  boys  are  very  stuck-  up-I've  met  some  that  would  do  anything  you'd  let  them  if  they  had  a  girl  in  the  woods  or  in  the  dark  but  that  wouldn't  be  seen  talking  to  her  on  the  street.&quot;  I  didn't  tell  her  I  was  a  Pres-  by  terian  and  went  to  the  academy.&quot;  &quot;Why  not?&quot;  &quot;She  mightn't  like  a  Presbyterian  pushing  her  pram.&quot;  They  laugh  at  that,  until  the  play-  ing  children  turn  and  look  and  laugh  with  them.  Cheerful  voices  call  from  beyond  the  millrace,  where  soldiers  and  sisters  are  withdrawing  to  the  woods.  SHE  had  listened  to  Lofty's  mother  again  as  the  train  returned  from  Bundoran  that  evening  and  the  great  romantic  flat-topped  mountains  dimin-  ished  into  the  distance.  This  time,  the  storyteller  faced  her  aunt  and  sat  be-  side  her  uncle,  who  had  been  talking  about  jerry-building  in  a  new  housing  estate.  Lofty's  mother  agreed  with  him.  She  had  a  shopping  bag  of  sugar  to  smuggle  back  into  the  Six  Counties,  where  it  cost  more.  The  sugar  was  tastefully  disguised  under  a  top  dress-  ing  of  dulse.  With  content  and  tri-  umph,  Lofty's  mother  sang  a  parody  popular  at  the  time:  &quot;South  ofthe  border,  down  Bundoran  way,  that's  where  we  get  the  Free  State  sugar  to  sweeten  our  tay.&quot;  She  was  great  fun.  She  had  bright-  blue  eyes  and  a  brown  hat  with  a  flar-  ing  feather,  and  a  brown  crinkly  face.  She  said,  &quot;Those  houses  are  everything  you  say  and  worse.  Fancy  fronts  and  ready  to  fall.  When  you  flush  the  lava-  tory  in  them,  the  noise  is  heard  all  over  the  town.&quot;  Passersby  in  the  corridor  stop  to  join  the  fun.  The  smuggled  sugar  is  safely  across  the  border.  Her  uncle  is  a  tall,  broad-shouldered  man  with  a  good  gray  suit,  a  wide-  brimmed  hat,  two  gold  teeth,  and  a  drawl.  Years  ago,  he  was  in  the  build-  ing  trade  in  the  United  [REDACTED]  and  knows  a  lot  about  jerry-building.  He  gets  on  very  well  with  Lofty's  mother.  T  was  well  on  toward  the  end  of  August  when  the  black  man  sat  on  the  bench  beside  her.  She  was  looking  sideways  toward  the  bridge  over  the  millrace,  and  laughing  because  two  rough  young  fellows  were  running  like  hares  before  Mr.  McCaslan's  boxer  dog.  Mr.  McCaslan  was  also  water  " b"bailiff  and  park  keeper.  The  rough  fel-  lows  had  been  using,  brutally,  one  of  the  swings  meant  for  small  children-  so  brutally  that  the  iron  stays  that  sup-  ported  it  were  rising  out  of  the  ground.  Mr.  McCaslan  had  mentioned  the  matter  to  them.  They  had  been  offen-  sive  and  even  threatening  to  the  old  rheumatic  man,  so  he  hobbled  back  to  his  shop  and  sent  the  boxer  dog  down  as  his  deputy.  The  pair  took  off  as  if  all  hell  were  behind  them.  It  was  funny,  because  the  dog  didn't  bark  or  growl  or  show  hostility,  didn't  even  run  fast-just  loped  along  with  a  certain  air  of  quiet  determination  and  wouldn't  (as  far  as  she  knew)  savage  anybody.  But  he  was  a  big  dog,  even  for  aboxer,  and  the  retreat  of  the  miscreants  was  faster  than  the  Keystone  Cops.  She  laughed  so  much  that  the  book  fell  on  the  grass.  The  black  man  picked  it  up  and  sat  down  beside  her.  She  thought  of  him  as  a  black  man  not  because  he  was  a  Negro  but  because  her  uncle  had  told  her  that  he  was  a  member  of  the  Black  Preceptory,  which  was  a  special  branch  of  the  Orange  Order.  She  had  seen  him  walking  last  Twelfth  of  July  in  the  big  parade  in  memory  of  the  Battle  of  the  Boyne.  He  had  worn  the  black  sash,  with  shining  me-  tallic  esotericinsignia  attached,  as  had  the  other  men  who  marched  beside  him.  The  contingent  that  followed  wore  blue  sashes  and  were  supposed  to  be  teetotallers,  but  her  uncle  said  thatthat  was  not  always  so.  One  of  the  blue  men,  a  red-faced,  red-headed  fellow,  was  teetering,  and  might  have  fallen  if  hehadn't  been  holding  on  to  one  of  the  poles  that  supported  a  ban-  ner.  The  drums  drummed,  the  banners  bellied  in  the  breeze,  the  pipes  and  fifes  and  brass  and  accordions  played:  It  is  old  but  itis  beautiful  And  its  colors  they  are  fine.  It  was  worn  at  Derry,  Aughrim,  Enniskillen,  and  the  Boyne.  My  father  wore  it  in  his  youth,  In  bygone  days  of  yore,  And  on  the  Twelfth  I'll  always  wear  The  sash  my  father  wore.  The  name  of  the  black  man  who  sat  beside  her  was  Samuel  McClintock,  and  he  was  a  butcher.  It  was  said  about  him  for  laughs  that  if  the  market  ran  out  of  meat  the  town  could  live  for  a  week  on  McClintock's  apron:  blue,  with  white  stripes.  That  August  day  and  in  thepublic  park,  he  naturally  wasn't  wearing  the  apron.  He  had  a  black  mustache,  a  heavy  blue  chin,  a  checked  cloth  cap,  thick-soled  boots,  thick  woollen  stockings,  and  whipcord  knee  breeches.  He  said,  &quot;The  dog  gave  those  ruffians  the  run.&quot;  The  way  he  said  it  took  the  fun  out  of  it.  She  said,  &quot;Yes,  Mr.  Mc-  Clintock.&quot;  Shewished  him  elsewhere.  She  half  looked  at  her  book.  She  was  too  well  reared  to  pick  it  up  from  her  lap  and  ostentatiously  goon  reading.  The  river  was  in  a  brown  fresh  that  day,  the  peninsula  of  sand  and  gravel  not  to  be  seen,  nor  Lofty,  nor  the  children.  The  black  man  said,  &quot;Plenty  water  in  the  river  today.&quot;  She  agreed  with  him.  It  was  a  pub-  lic  park  in  a  free-and-easy  town,  and  everyone  had  a  right  to  sit  where  he  pleased.  Yet  this  was  her  own  seat  under  the  tall  tree-almost  exclusively  hers,  except  when  Lofty  was  there.  The  black  man  said,  &quot;The  Scotchies  have  a  saying  that  the  salmon'sher  ain  when  there's  water  but  she's  coors  when  it's  oot.&quot;  He  explained,  &quot;That  means  that  often  they're  easier  to  catch  when  the  water's  low.&quot;  He  filled  his  pipe  and  lit  it.  The  smell  of  tobacco  was  welcome.  It  might  have  been  her  imagination,  but  until  he  pulled  and  puffed  and  sent  the  tobacco  smell  out  around  them  she  had  thought  that  the  resinous  air  under  the  tree  was  polluted  by  the  odors  of  the  butcher's  shop.  He  said  that  the  salmon  were  a  sight  to  see  leaping  the  falls  when  they  went  running  upstream.  She  said  that  she  had  often  watched  them.  &quot;I'm  told  you're  very  friendly  with  a  well-known  young  fisherman  of  my  persuasion.&quot;  &quot;Who,  for  instance?&quot;  &quot;You  know  well.  That's  what  I  want  to  talk  to  you  about.  It's  a  serious  matter.&quot;  &quot;Being  friendly  with  a  fisherman?&quot;  &quot;Don't  play  the  smarty  with  me,  young  lassie.  Even  if  you  do  go  to  the  convent  secondary  school.  Young  peo-  ple  now  get  more  education  than's  good  for  them.Lofty  at  the  academy  and  you  at  the  convent  have  no  call  to  be  chumming  it  up  before  the  whole  town.&quot;  &quot;Why  not?&quot;  But  it  occurred  to  her  that  they  hadn't  been  chumming  it  up  or  any-  thing  else  before  the  whole  town.  What  eyes  could  have  spied  on  them  on  this  enchanted  island?  &quot;His  uncle's  a  tyler,  that's  why.&quot;  &quot;I  never  knew  he  had  an  uncle.&quot;  &quot;His  mother's  brother  is  a  tyler  and  very  strict.&quot;  &quot;What's  a  tyler?&quot;  &quot;I  shouldn't  repeat  it,  lassie.  But  I  will,  to  impress  on  you  how  serious  it  is.  A  tyler  he  is  and  a  strict  one.  Wasn't  it  him  spoke  up  to  have  Lofty  let  into  the  B-Specials?&quot;  &quot;Don't  ask  me.  I  never  knew  he  was  a  B-Special.&quot;  But  oneday  for  a  joke,  she  remem-  " b"bered,  he  had  given  her  that  handful  of  bullets.  &quot;The  nuns  wouldn't  tell  you  this  at  school,  but  the  B-Specials  were  set  up  by  Sir  Basil  Brooke  to  hold  Ulster  against  the  Pope  and  the  Republic  of  Ireland.&quot;  The  nuns  for  sure  hadn't  told  her  anything  of  the  sort-Mother  Teresa,  who  was  verystrong  on  purity  and  being  a  lady  and  not  sitting  like  a  man,  with  your  legs  crossed,  had  never  once  mentioned  the  defensive  hero-  isms  of  the  B-Specials,  who,  out  in  country  places,  went  about  at  night  with  guns  and  in  black  uniforms,  hold-  ing  up  Catholic  neighbors  and  ask-  ing  them  their  names  and  addresses-  which  they  knew  very  well  to  begin  with.  The  Lofty  she  knew  in  daylight  by  this  laughing  river  didn't  seem  to  be  cut  out  for  such  nocturnal  capers.  &quot;If  his  uncle  knew  that  the  two  of  you,  and  you  a  Catholic  girl,  were  carrying  on,  there'd  be  f  hell  upon  earth.&quot;  -  &quot;But  we're  not  carry-  ing  on.&quot;  &quot;Speak  with  respect,  young  lassie.  A  tyler,  al-  though  I  shouldn't  tell  you  the  secret,  is  a  big  man  in  the  Orange  Or-  der  at  detecting  intrud-  ers.  His  obligation  is  this:  'I  do  solemnly  declare  that  I  will  be  faithful  to  the  duties  of  my  office,  and  I  will  not  admit  any  person  into  the  Lodge  without  having  first  found  him  to  be  in  pos-  session  of  the  financial  password  or  without  the  sanction  of  the  Wor-  shipful  Master  of  the  Lodge.?  &quot;  Then,  after  a  pause,  he  said  with  gravity,  &quot;And  I'm  the  Worship-  ful  Master.&quot;  He  was  the  only  one  of  the  kind  she  had  ever  met  or  ever  was  to  meet,  and  she  did  her  best,  al-  though  it  was  all  very  strange  there  by  the  riv-  er  and  the  rough  stream  and  under  the  big  tree,  to  appear  impressed,  yet  all  she  could  think  of  saying  was  &quot;But  I'm  not  inter-  fering  with  his  tyling.&quot;  Then  she  was  angry  and  close  to  tears,  al-  though  it  was  also  funny.  &quot;For  all  I  care  he  can  tile  the  roofs  and  floors  and  walls  of  every  house  in  this  town.&quot;  The  big  man  hadn't  moved  much  since  he  sat  down,  had  never  raised  his  voice.  But  now  he  shouted,  &quot;Lassie,  I'll  make  you  care.  The  B-Specials  are  sworn  to  uphold  Protestant  liber-  ty  and  beat  down  the  Fenians  and  the  LR.A.&quot;  &quot;I'm  not  a  Fenian  nor  an  I.  R.A.&quot;  &quot;'You're  a  Roman  Catholic,  aren't  you:  And  there  isn't  any  other  sort.  Sir  Basil  Brooke  says  that  Roman  Catholics  are  ninety-nine  per  cent  disloyal  and  that  he  wouldn't  have  one  of  them  about  the  house.&quot;  &quot;Sir  Who's-It?&quot;  &quot;No  cheek,  lassie.  Didn't  he  sit  up  a  treeat  Colebrooke  all  night  long  with  a  gun  waiting  forthe  L.  R.A.  to  attack  his  house?  Didn't  he  found  the  B-Specials   to  help  the  police  to  defend  the  throne  and  the  Protestant  religion?&quot;  What  was  it  to  her  if  Sir  Somebody-  or-Other  spent  all  his  life  up  a  tree  at  Colebrooke  or  anywhere  else?  The  Lancashire  soldier  had  climbed  her  tree  and  been  as  comic  as  a  monkey  up  a  stick.  The  black  man  calmed  himself.  &quot;Your  own  clergy  are  dead  set  against  mixed  marriages,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;We  weren't  thinking  of  marriage.&quot;  &quot;What  of,  then?  Silliness  and  non-  sense.  The  young  have  no  wit.  What  would  Mother  Teresa  say  if  she  heard  you  were  keeping  company  with  a  Protestant?&quot;  &quot;Who  would  tell  her?&quot;  &quot;I  might.  For  your  own  good  and  for  Lofty.&quot;  He  knocked  the  ash  out  of  his  pipe  and  put  it  away.  The  pleasant  tobacco  smell  faded.  She  smelled  blood  and  dirt  and  heard  screams,  and  knew,  with  a  comi-  cal  feeling  of  kindness,  that  she  had  been  wrong-  ly  blaming  him  for  bring-  ing  with  him  the  stench  of  the  shambles.  There  was  a  piggery  at  the  far  end  of  the  field  beyond  the  river  and  the  wind  was  blowing  from  that  direction.  &quot;''That's  the  piggery,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It's  a  disgrace.&quot;  &quot;Time  and  again  I've  said  that  on  the  Town  Council.  You  must  have  read  what  I  said  in  the  papers.  It's  a  sin,  shame,  and  scandal  to  have  a  pig-  gery  beside  a  beauty  spot.  Not  thatI've  anything  against  pigs,  in  my  busi-  ness,  in  their  own  place.&quot;  He  stood  up  and  pat-  ted  her  on  the  shoulder.  He  was  really  just  a  big,  rough,  friendly  man.  &quot;You  don't  want  him  put  out  of  the  Specials  or  the  Lodge  itself,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Why  should  he  be?&quot;  &quot;''These  are  deep  mat-  ters.  But  they  tell  me  you  read  a  lot.  You've  the  name  for  being  one  of  the  cleverest  students  in  this  town,  Protestant  or  Catholic.  So  I'll  talk  to  you,  all  for  the  best,  as  if  you  were  a  grownup  and  one  of  my  own.  It  is  possible  but  very  diffi-  cult  for  a  convert  to  be  " b"accepted  as  a  member  of  the  Orange  Order.&quot;  He  was  as  good  as  standing  at  atten-  tion,  He  was  looking  over  her  head  to-  ward  the  waterfall.  &quot;A  convert  would  have  to  be  of  sev-  cral  years'  standing,  and  his  back-  ground  would  have  to  be  carefully  screened.  His  admission  would  have  to  be  authorized  by  the  Grand  Lodge.  They'd  have  to  go  that  high-Ilike  4974616c79  for  the  Catholics.  No  convert  can  get  into  the  Black  Preceptory  if  either  of  his  parents  is  still  living,  in  case  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  might  exert  pressure  on  a  parent.&quot;  He  was  reciting.  Like  the  singsong  way  in  which,  in  school,  the  children  learned  the  catechism.  &quot;A  convert  who  was  even  a  Protes-  tant  clergyman  was  blacked  out,  be-  cause  one  of  his  parents  was  still  living,  and  there  is  automatic  expulsion  for  dishonoring  the  institution  by  marrying  a  Roman  Catholic.&quot;  The  great  tree  creaked  its  branches  above  them.  The  brown  water  tum-  bled  on  toward  the  town.  &quot;You  see  what  I  mean,  lassie?  She  supposed  she  saw.  In  a  way,  she  was  grateful.  He  was  trying  to  help.  He  shook  her  hand  as  if  they  were  friends  forever.  He  went  of  toward  the  waterfall,  so  that,  without  turning  around,  she  couldnot  see  him  walking  away  and  he  could  not,  thank  God,  see  her  laughing.  For,  sweet  heart  of  Jesus,  fount  of  love  and  mercy,  to  thee  we  come  thy  blessings  to  implore,  but  it  was  comic  to  think  of  him  marching  up  the  convent  grounds  (he  should  wear  his  black  sash  and  have  a  fife  and  drum  before  him),  with  the  holy  white  statues  to  left  and  right  and  a  Lourdes  grotto  as  high  as  43616e616461Fr-  rigal,  to  relate  all  about  the  love  life  of  Lofty  and  herself  to  Mother  Teresa,  who  had  a  mouth  like  a  rattrap  and  a  mind  to  match.  A  Worshipful  Master  and  a  Most  Worshipful  Reverend  Mother,  and  never,  or  seldom,  the  twain  shall  meet.  She  was  an  odd  sort  of  a  girl.  She  sat  around  a  lot  and  had  read  too  many  books.  It  was  funny,  also,  to  think  of  his  daughter,  Gladys-  a  fine,  good-natured  brunette  with  a  swinging  stride,  a  bosom  like  a  Viking  prow,  and  a  dozen  boyfriends  of  all  creeds  and  classes.  Nothing  sectarian  about  Gladys,  who  was  one  of  his  own  kind  and  the  daughter  of  a  Worship-  ful  Master.  Somebody  should  tell  the  tyler  to  keep  an  eye  on  her.  But  she  was  too  clever  to  be  caught-too  fast  on  her  feet,  too  fast  on  her  feet.  As  she  walked  slowly  past  the  Orange  Hall  on  the  way  home,  she  39  thought  that  she  would  have  a  lot  to  tell  to  lazy,  freckled,  lovable  Lofty.  The  Orange  Hall  was  a  two-story  brownstone  building  at  a  crossroads  on  the  edge  of  the  town.  High  on  its  wall,  a  medallion  image  of  William  of  Orange  on  an  impossibly  white  horse  rode  forever  across  the  Boyne.  The  two  old  cannons  on  the  green  outside  had  been  captured  from  the  Germans  in  the  Kaiser  war.  In  there,  Lofty's  lodge  met,  and  it  was  a  popular  joke  that  no  man  could  become  a  member  until  he  rode  a  buck  goat  backways  up  the  stairs.  Sometimes,  in  the  evenings,  bands  played  thunderously  in  there,  practicing  for  the  day  in  July  whcn  they  marched  out,  banners  flying.  It  was  crazy  to  thmk  that  a  man  on  a  white  horse,  riding  across  a  river  more  than  two  hundred  years  ago,  could  now  ride  between  herself  and  Lofty.  Or,  for  that  matter-although  Mother  Teresa  would  have  a  fit  if  she  thought  that  a  pupil  of  hers  could  think  of  such  things-another  man  on  a  chair  or  something  being  carried  shoulder-high  in  the  city  of  4974616c79.  All  this  she  meant  to  mention  to  Lofty  the  next  time  he  came  to  the  seat  under  the  tree.  But  all  she  could  get  around  to  saying  was  &quot;Lofty,  what's  a  tyler?&quot;  He  had  no  rod  and  net  and  was  dressed,  not  for  fishing,  in  a  new  navy-  blue  suit.  The  children  called  to  him  from  the  gravel,  but  he  paid  no  atten-  tionto  them.  At  first,  he  pretended  not  to  hear  her,so  she  asked  him  again.  He  said  that  a  tyler  was  a  manwho  laid  tiles.  That  was  the  end  of  that.  Then  it  was  winter.  One  whole  week,  the  park  was  flooded.  She  couldn't  exactly  re-  member  when  it  was  that  Lofty  had  given  her  the  bullets.  T  was  also  crazy  to  think  that  Lofty's  laughing  mother  could  have  a  brother  who  went  about  spying  on  people  and  nosing  them  out.  What  eyes  had  spied  on  Lofty  and  herself  on  the  enchanted  island?  What  nosy  neigh-  bor  had  told  somebody  who  told  some-  body  who  told  the  sergeant  that  she  had  bullets  in  the  earthenware  jug?  &quot;If  you  don't  tell  me,&quot;  the  sergeant  said,  &quot;it  will  be  awkward  for  all  con-  cerned.  What  would  Mother  Teresa     think  if  she  knew  youhad  live  bullets  in  an  earthenware  jug?&quot;  It  wasn't  possible  to  control  the  gig-  gles.  What,  in  the  holy  name  of  God  would  Mother  Teresa  think  if  the  ser-  geant  and  the  Worshipful  Master  de-  scended  on  her  simultaneously?  What  would  she  say?  How  would  she  look?  Keeping  live  bullets  in  a  jug  must  be  one  of  the  few  things  that  she  had  not  warned  her  girls  against.  &quot;You'll  have  to  come  down  to  the  barracks  with  me.  I'll  walk  ahead  and  you  follow,  just  in  case  the  people  are  passing  remarks.  'They  might  think  I'm  arresting  you.&quot;  &quot;&quot;W  hat  are  you  doing?&quot;  &quot;Och,  1d  just  like  you  to  make  a  statement.  It's  not  a  crime  to  have  bul-  lets.  Not  for  a  young  lady  like  you,  who  wouldn't  be  likely  to  be  using  them.  But  we  have  a  duty  to  find  out  where  they  came  from.  My  son  Reggie  speaks  high-  ly  of  you-Reggie  the  footballer,  you  know.&quot;  She  knew.  It  was  a  town  joke  that  the  sergeant  couldn't  speak  to  anybody  for  ten  minutes  without  mentioning  Reggie,  who  parted  his  hair  up  the  middle,  wore  loud  scarves,  and  played  football  very  well.  It  was  clear  that  the  sergeant  thought  that  to  be  thought  well  of  by  Reggie  was  a  special  distinction.  Old  low  white  houses  line  the  hill  that  goes  up  from  the  brook  and  the  co-  operative  creamery  to  the  center  of  the  town.  The  sergeant  plods  on  twenty  yards  ahead  of  her.  The  town  is  very  quiet.  His  black  leather  belt  creaks  and  strains  to  hold  him  together.  The  butt  of  his  pistol,  his  black  baton  case  shine.  Back  to  the  wall  in  the  dayroom,  Lofty  sits,  pale  and  nervous,  on  a  creaking  cane  chair.  She  has  never  no-  ticed  before  that  he  has  a  stutter.  An-  other  sergeant  sits  behind  a  desk  and  makes  notes.  Two  young  constables  are  laughing  in  the  background.  The  black  man  comes  in  and  says,  &quot;I  warned  the  two  of  them.&quot;  Her  own  sergeant  says,  wasn't  much  harm  in  it.&quot;  &quot;Not  for  the  girl,&quot;  says  the  man  be-  hind  the  desk.  &quot;But  for  him  a  breach  of  discipline.&quot;  Lofty  has  surely  never  stuttered  when  he  talked  to  her  by  the  meeting  of  the  waters.  &quot;Did  tell  them  I  gave  you  the  bullets?&quot;  &quot;Dear  God,  it  wasn't  a  crime  to  give  me  bullets.&quot;  &quot;Did  you  tell  them?  &quot;I  did  not.&quot;  &quot;They  said  you  did.&quot; &quot;So.&quot;  Her  own  sergeant  looks  ashamed  and " b"rubs  his  mustache.  The  other  sergeant  says,  &quot;&quot;Case  closed.&quot;  Then  her  uncle  walks  in,  and  so  hopping  mad  that  he  seems  to  have  a  mouthful  of  gold  teeth.  He  talks  for  a  long  time,  and  they  listen  respectfully,  because  he's  a  famous  man  for  keeping  running  dogs  that  he  feeds  onbrandy  and  beef.  He  says  over  and  over  again,  &quot;You  make  a  helluva  fuss  about  a  few  bullets.&quot;  &quot;A  breach  of  discipline,&quot;  says  the  man  behind  the  desk.  A  helluva  fuss.  &quot;Damn  nonsense!&quot;  says  her  uncle.  And  repeats  it  many  times  as  they  walk  home  together.  &quot;But,  all  the  same,  they'll  put  him  out  of  the  Specials,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;And  I  daresay  he  shouldn't  havebeen  fooling  around,  giving  away  government  is-  sue.&quot;  Over  the  supper  table,  he  remembers  the  time  he  had  been  a  policeman  in  De-  troit:  &quot;Some  Negro  trouble  then,  and  this  rookie  policeman  from  [REDACTED]  was  on  patrol  with  a  trained  man.  The  rookie  has  no  gun.  So  they're  rushed  by  twenty  black  men,  and  the  first  rock  thrown  clobbers  the  trained  man  un-  conscious.  But  the  [REDACTED]  guy,he  stoops  down,  takes  the  pistol  out  of  the  other  man's  holster,  and  shoots  six  times  and  kills  six  black  men-one,  two,  three,  four,  five,  six.  He  didn't  waste  a  bullet.&quot; &quot;Sacred  Heart  have  mercy,&quot;  says  her  aunt.  &quot;What  did  the  other  black  men  do,  Uncle?&quot;  &quot;They  took  off  for  home,  and  small  blame  to  them.  He  was  a  cool  one,  that  rookie,  and  a  damned  good  shot.  Here,  in  this  place,  they  make  a  helluva  fuss  over  a  few  bullets.  I  told  them  so.&quot;  OFTY  came  never  again  to  the  tall  tree.  They  met  a  few  times  on  the  street  and  spoke  a  few  words.  She  left  the  town  after  a  while,  and  went  to  work  in  [REDACTED].  Once,  home  on  holi-  days,  she  met  Lofty,  and  he  asked  her  to  go  to  the  pictures,  and  she  meant  to  but  never  did.  The  Hitler  war  came  on.  She  married  an  556e6974656420537461746573n,  and  went  to  live  in,  of  all  places,  [REDACTED].  Her  un-  cle  and  aunt  and  the  sergeant  and  the  Worshipful  Master  and  the  tyler  and,  I  suppose,  Lofty's  mother  and  old  Mc-  Caslan  and  his  dog  died.  Remembering  her,  I  walked,  the  last  time  I  was  in  the  town,  to  revisit  Bluebell  Meadow.  The  bridge  over  the  millrace  was  broken  down  to  one  plank.  Rank  grass  grew  a  foot  high  over  most  of  the  island.  The  rest  of  it  was  a  wide  track  of  sand  and  gravel,  where  the  river  in  fierce  flood  had  taken  everything  before  it.  The  chil-  dren's  swings  and  all  the  seats  were  gone,  smashed  some  time  before  by  re-  luctant  young  soldiers  from  the  North  of  [REDACTED]  cities  doing  their  national  service.  Repair  work  had  been  planned,  but  then  the  bombings  and  murders  began.  No  laughing  Lancashire  boy  in  Brit-  ish  uniform  will  ever  again  climb  the  tall  tree.  For  one  thing,  the  tree  is  gone.  For  another,  the  soldiers  go  about  in  bands,  guns  at  the  ready,  in  trucks  and  armored  cars.  There  are  burned-out  buildings  in  the  main  streets,  and  bar-  ricades  and  checkpoints  at  the  ends  of  the  town.  As  a  woman  said  to  me,  &quot;Nowadays,  we  have  gates  to  the  town.&quot;  Still,  other  towns  are  worse.  Strabane,  which  was  on  the  border  and  easy  to  bomb,  is  a  burned-out  wreck-  and  Newry,  where  the  people  badly  needed  shops  and  factories,  and  not  ruins.  And  Derry  is  like  Dresden  on  the  day  after.  When  I  wrote  to  her  about  this,  she  said,  among  other  things,  that  she  had  never  found  out  the  name  of  that  tall  conifer. "