 RUIN  Y  father  was  a  cattle  rancher  M  in  [REDACTED].  One  day  after  the  war,  he  had  become  sick  after  eating  a  bad  piece  of  frozen  meat,  and  suddenly  all  our  cane  went  down  and  men  began  putting  up  fences.  By  him-  self  my  father  took  the  Oracabessa  launch  to  43756261,  went  up  into  the  mountains,  he  said,  and  came  back  a  week  later  with  a  43756261n  he  had  known  during  the  war  in  North  Africa.  Pappy  was  his  name,  and  he  had  two  teeth  in  his  mouth  and  looked  thin  and  stupid,  but  he  knew  cattle.  It  was  a  risk  for  my  father  to  take  the  Oracabessa  launch  across  the  straits  in  September.  It  was  only  ninety  miles,  but  September  in  [REDACTED]  is  the  time  for  bad  storms;  they  come  up  quickly.  He  was  very  daring,  my  mother  told  me,  after  the  war,  and  I  remember  it  a  bit  myself.  All  the  men  were  a  little  like  that.  My  mother  said  after  Al  Alamain  my  father  thought  hecould  do  anything.  He  was  impetuous,  like  a  young  boy,  the  war  having  taught  him  both  how  temporary  life  is  and  how  valuable.  He  had  been  a  cane  grower  all  his  life-that  was  what  he  knew  -but  he  was  willing  to  learn  cattle.  He  put  every  penny,  every  quattie  of  what  we  had  into  a  small  herd  and  a  prize  black  bull  that  came  from  Corpus  Christ  in  October  and  was  lowered  from  the  freighter  to  the  dock,  hung  from  a  bright  yellow  sling.  When  the  yellow  sash  dropped  away  and  we  could  see  the  bull's  blackness  and  the  rotations  of  green  that  were  its  eyes,  my  father  was  a  proud  man.  The  bull  looked  up  and  snorted,  its  eyes  fixed  on  the  mountain,  and  Pappy  said  with  a  hideous  gentle  smile  that  it  smelled  the  herd  and  that  thesea  voyage  had  done  it  no  good.  Our  house  had  red  tiles  on  the  roof.  They  glowed  vermillion  in  the  sun.  We  heard  drums  on  Friday  and  Sat-  urday  nights;  drifting  up  from  the  town,  the  sound  was  marvellous  and  frightening.  When  my  father  was  trou-  bled,  he  walked  down  the  mountain  on  the  winding  road  and  stayed  for  a  long  time  on  the  wall  overlooking  the  sea.  It  was  terribly  hot  and  still  in  the  morning.  Everyone  wore  white.  I  was  often  aware  of  carrion  rotting  unseen  in  some  soft  place.  I  was  quite  surprised  when,  a  week  after  we  took  the  bull  off  the  ship,  Pappy  ran  onto  the  terrace  and,  turn-  ing  his  straw  hat  rapidly  in  his  hands,  announced  that  the  bull  had  gone  wild  and  was  killing  the  other  animals.  My  father  got  up  slowly  and  put  down  The  Gleaner.  He  was  in  white  pants  and  a  white  shirt  and  he  was  stained  beautifully  with  colors,  for  he  had  been  painting  a  picture;  he  had  been  painting  fish  and  fruit.  I  followed  him  to  his  room,  where  I  watched  him  load  a  .30-06,  pushing  in  the  dull  brass  cartridges  one  by  one.  He  seemed  to  be  angry  and  perhaps  a  little  fright-  ened.  I  was  frightened  for  him.  We  started  at  a  walk  down  the  hill  but  then  we  began  to  run.  At  the  bend,  Hamid,  who  worked  in  our  sta-  bles,  was  waiting  for  us  with  two  horses,  a  beautiful  black  one  for  my  father  and  the  nice  brown  one  called  Kerry  for  Pappy.  My  father  pulled  me  up  behind  him  and  we  flew  down  the  hill  with  the  trades  whipping  our  hair  and  flinging  Pappy's  hat  onto  his  back,  where  it  hung  by  a  cord.  The  rifle  bumped  against  my  face  and  I  had  trouble  hanging  on,  but  we  reached  the  field,  which  was  streaked  with  the  blood  of  cows  as  if  some  Japanese  had  been  flying  kites  with  long  red  rib-     37  bons,  which  when  the  wind  died  were  left  parallel  on  the  grass.  The  blood  steamed-especially  near  the  places  where  cows  had  fallen.  Some  of  them  groaned  but  most  were  just  breathing  deeply  as  if  they  hoped  to  get  better.  The  bull  was  at  the  end  of  the  field  and  his  head  was  covered  and  clotted  with  blood;  it  made  thick  cakes  which  clung  to  his  hair.  He  was  stained  with  red.  My  father  told  me  to  hang  on  tight,  and  I  made  my  thin  arms  a  tourniquet  around  his  waist.  I  was  very  much  afraid  of  falling  off  the  horse.  I  could  smell  the  paint  on  my  father's  shirt  and  the  sun  made  me  blink.  He  put  the  rifle  in  a  sling  position,  so  he  could  hold  it  in  one  hand  and  the  reins  in  another.  He  did  it  fast;  it  must  have  been  one  of  the  things  he  learned  in  North  Afri-  ca.  He  spurred  the  horse  and  it  started  to  prance,  foaming,  toward  the  bull.  Silent  4a616d61696361ns  pressed  against  the  fences.  They  were  watching  us  on  a  wet  black  horse.  The  horse  danced  sideways  at  the  bull,  elegantly,  as  if  we  were  not  in  a     &quot;Arise,  Sir  Bluegrass  Pete.&quot;  &gt;   green  palm  ring  on  a  cliff  above  the  sea  but  in  a  [REDACTED]  riding  academy.  The  bull  stomped  the  ground.  My  father  cocked  the  rifle.  The  horse,  rock-  ing  and  edging,  had  spasms  of  fright.  That  black  horse  was  a  good  horse.  He  was  frightened  but  he  risked  his  life  for  what  as  far  as  he  knew  was  my  father's  whim.  My  father  often  said  that  if  he  could  be  as  good  a  man  asthat  horse  was  ahorse,  he  would  be  happy  and  ready  to  rest.  Pappy  called  the  black  horse  an  astronomer,  because  at  night  he  looked  long  into  the  air  at  the  stars-sometimes  for  hours.  The  bull  charged  us  and  I  felt  my    holes  in  the  neck.  I  had  remembered  only  one  shot.  We  visited  the  cows  one  by  one  and  killed  them.  The  horse  seemed  more  frightened  of  them  than  of  the  bull.  My  father  said,  &quot;Now  we  are  going  to  have  to  get  rid  of  all  this  meat,  and  buy  new  cows,  dammit.&quot;  &quot;New  ones?&quot;  I  said.  He  did  not  answer.  &quot;How  can  we  ...&quot;  I  did  not  finish.  We  went  up  the  hill  at  a  walk.  It  was  hot,  and  the  hooves  of  the  black  horse  were  scarlet.  