 b"CUT  above  an  outward-facing  bud.&quot;  But  which  bud  is  leaf,  which  is  flower?  Cornelia  is  about  to  start  pruning  the  roses.  Final-  ly.  At  least,  she  is  looking  them  over.  It  has  been  a  late  spring,  and  a  damn  cold  May  so  far,  which  has  helped  keep  weeds  out  of  the  garden,  or  gardens.  The  rose  beds  are  two  fairly  sizable  strips,  an  I  and  an  L,  separated  by  a  grassy  path,  for  kneeling  and  working.  Beyond  them,  the  region  for  vegetables,  currently  a  slough  too  disreputable  and  vast  even  to  contemplate.  The  rose-  bushes  are  at  least  neatly  mulched  with  buckwheat  hulls.  Everything  above  the  roots  is  disorder;  the  bushes  have  riot-  ously  thrown  out  hundreds  of  shoots  every  which  way,  covered  with  shiny  reddish  leaves.  These  ought  to  have  been  shorn  by  April,  according  to  the  book.  Leave  out  all  but  the  essential-  three  good,  healthy  canes  from  which  will  evolve  Y-shaped  branches  clustered  with  roses,  for  summer  flower  arrange-  ments.  Water  runs  down  Cornelia's  face.  (It's  also  been  a  rainy  spring.)  She  goes  in  by  the  back,  or  garden,  door  of  the  garage.  Besides  the  car,  a  kingly  green  Oldsmobile,  the  garage  is  full  of  gar-  den  equipment:  bags  of  fertilizer,  a  hand  mower,  a  power  mower,  spades  and  rakes,  old  bushel  baskets,  seedlings,  outdoor  chairs,  bird  chow,  seven  pairs  of  pruning  shears,  a  rubber  kneeling  mat.  A  beat-up  little  three-legged  table  with  more  clutter,  clippers,  a  memo-  randum  or  list:  Tuesday  Garden  (1)  Prune  Beach  Ave  Walk  (a)  Stake  Tomatoes  (b)  Block  Out  Onions  or  Pull  all  Weeds  (c)  Roses-1)  Feed  all  in  bed  &amp;  gardens  2)  Debud  &amp;  prune  (d)  Phlox-Tie  (e)  Azaleas-Feed  Hollytone  Walk-Water  in  &quot;  -Buckwheat  Hulls  (\xc2\xa3)  Other  Azaleas  Feed  (g)  Prune  Bushes  by  Garbage  &amp;  Kitchen  Door  (h)  Compost  from  N.W.  Corner  (i)  Start  new  Compost  Heap  in  SW.  Corner  (j)  Move  Pine  Compost  to  new  heap  3  or  4  Wheel  Barrows  a  cracked  ashtray,  house  reject,  full  of  Luckies  smoked  down  to  the  roach,  and  a  warty  black  rubber  gardening  glove.  Cornelia  selects  two  pairs  of  clippers,  one  short,  one  long-handled-a  giant's  scissors-the  kneeling  mat,  and  a  bushel  basket,  and  returns  to  the  garden.  With  the  hand-size  shears  she  attacks  a  hollow  blackcane.  An  aphid  runs  across  her  thumbnail,  and  as  she  pulls  away  the  cutting,  blood  seeps  from  a  scratch  on  the  back  of  her  left  hand.  The  bush  looks  about  the  same  as  be-  fore.  (Imagine,  though,  how  handsome  they  will  all  look  in  June,  the  rose  time.  Full,  shapely,  crowded  with  roses,  flaunting  their  wealth,  asking  to  be  robbed.  Helen  Traubel.  Queen  Eliza-  beth.)  The  bushel  basket  fills  all  too  quick-  ly;  Cornelia  fetches  a  plastic  garbage  pail,  which  is  also  in  the  garage.  She  dumps  an  armful  of  immense  pretzel-  stick  cuttings  into  the  pail.  Ouch.  A  thorn  jabs  smartly  right  under  the  cuticle;  red  spot  blossoms  like  a  rose  around  it.  It  will  take  several  days  for  the  black  thorn  to  work  its  way  out;part  of  it  will  grow  right  along  with  Cornelia,  a  bump  in  the  fingernail,  until  it  reaches  the  tip  of  her  finger  and  she  pares  it  off,  three  months  later.  Her  mother's  call:  &quot;Cornelia,  come  in  out  of  the  rats!&quot;  Hack,  cut,  pull.  Bleed.  The  drizzle  increases  to  down-  pour,  trickling  off  the  branches,  down  her  nose,  smearing  to  black  when  she  tries  to  wipe  the  rain  from  her  eyes,  pud-  dling  in  the  bottom  of  the  cutting  pail.  She  drapes  a  piece  of  burlap  over  the  cuttings  and  squashes  the  whole  thing  down  with  a  sneakered  foot.  Surveying  the  damage.  Eight  clothes  poles  at  the  edge  of  a  thicket.  The  rain  falls  faster.  The  amateur  works  harder,  demolish-  ing  another,  another-snip-she  has  accidentally  severed  all  three  canes  of  a  live  John  F.  Kennedy.  Come  out  of  the  rain,  Cornelia,  you  can't  possibly  finish  themnow.  Dump  the  wet  wood  on  the  compost  heap  (where  the  gardener  does  not  wish  for  it  to  be;  the  thorns  will  be  wounding  him  all  summer),  put  away  the  tools.  The  shears  are  rusting  fast.  Wipe  your  face  and  go  inside.  &quot;DEA,  Dwarf,  Tall.  Growing  SucorEsrion:  Plant  as  early  as  ground  can  be  worked.&quot;  &quot;It's  no  use,  Mother.  I  can't  get  the  roses  done.  I  can't  even  thim\xc3\xa9  about  the  vegetable  garden.  Couldn't  we  hire  somebody?&quot;  &quot;He'd  hate  that,  somebody  he  doesn't  know,  doing  it  wrong.  Stealing  his  fun.&quot;  &quot;Myron  could  at  least  spade  up  the  soil,  couldn't  he?&quot;  promised  to  the  Sanderses  this  Saturday.  He'll  be  out  the  weekend  after  that.  Anyway,&quot;  the  mother  says,  &quot;I  have  tried.  In  the  Yellow  Pages.  Madison  Square  Gardens  and  Collan-  gelo.  They  were  solidly  booked.  Why,  you're  soaking  wet!&quot;  HERE  comes  a  sound  of  rivalry  by  day:  Sissy  with  the  children.  &quot;Hi,  Nana!  Hi,  Poppa!&quot;  shouts  the  two-year-old,  who's  been  practicing  that  greeting  in  the  car  all  the  way  from  New  York  City.  &quot;Hi,  Poppa!&quot;  He  races  through  the  swinging  doors  into  the  living  room.  &quot;Poppa's  not  here,  Kenny,&quot;  says  his  grandmother.  &quot;Hi.  Poppa?&quot;  He  shoots  out  his  low-  er  lip,  bursts  into  tears.  &quot;Kenny  threw  up  in  the  car.  (Hi,  Cor.)  I  can  only  stay  a  second.  I  was  Visiting.  He  was  eating  Jell-O.  Corne-  lia,  are  you  pruning  the  roses?  He  says  to  get  the  tomatoes  in  and  if  possible  the  peppers,  never  mind  the  onions.  He'll  do  them  when  he  gets  home.  He  drew  me  a  diagram.  (Where  is  it?)  They  should  be  about  a  foot  deep  and  six  inches  apart.  Oh  God,  maybe  he  said  six  inches  deep  and  a  foot  apart.  Chuck,  the  freezer  is  empty.  (He  just  had  a  Good  Humor.)  But  it's  raining,&quot;  says  the  younger  sister,  suddenly  dejected.  &quot;And  the  soil  hasn't  even  been  turned,&quot;  Cornelia  says.  &quot;All  right,&quot;  their  mother  tells  them,  over  an  armful  of  Kenny  and  Chuck,  &quot;IPI  call  Collangelo's  again.&quot;  PHONE  call:  &quot;'The  strangest  thing  happened  this  morning.  I  was  look-  ing  out  the  window  when  I  saw  a  little  yellow  pickup  truck  coming  right  up  the  driveway.  Two  men  got  out.  One  of  them  went  around  the  front  of  the  house  and  the  other  into  the  garage.  Then  they  both  came  back,  got  into  the  truck,  circled  the  turnaround,  and  drove  straight  off  without  ringing  the  doorbell  or  anything.  I  think  they  were  the  men  I  hired  to  cut  the  grass  and  " b"see  about  the  gardens.  Maybe  they'll  come  back  when  it  stops  raining?&quot;  k  OOD  morning,  Madam.  Mr.  Tredeci.  You  got  something  for  me  to  do  with  a  garden?&quot;  A  husky  man  with  a  soft  accent  is  standing  at  the  kitchen  door.  &quot;Are  you  Madison  Square  Gar-  dens?&quot;  &quot;No,  Ma'am.  Tredeci.&quot;  &quot;Well,  Mr.  Tredeci,  you've  come  at  a  bad  time.  It's  my  husband  who  should  be  giving  you  the  instructions.  I'm  afraid  during  the  last  month  he  let  things  slide,  rather.  Tredeci'  That's  funny,  I  don't  remember  calling  you.  However,  since  you're  here.  I'll  show  you  where  it  all  is,&quot;  says  the  mistress  of  the  house.  She  takes  him  out  to  the  rose  and  the  vegetable  gardens,  and  shows  him  the  garage  tool  collection.  Whistling  an  Italian  aria,  the  gar-  dener  hefts  the  shears.  But  later,  when  she  returns  from  visiting  the  hospital,  he's  gone  as  mys-  teriously  as  he  came.  And  so  are  the  electric  hedge  clipper,  the  self-charging  flashlight,  and  the  new  pruning  shears.  The  vegetable  garden's  unturned,  the  roses  half  pruned-their  roots,  how-  ever,  deep  in  a  snow  of  fertilizer  that  the  gardener  had  intended  for  vege-  tables.  A  service  for  which  they  will  never  be  billed.  &amp;C  ID  you  get  my  tomatoes  in,  the  Fantastics?&quot;he  asks  from  his  hospital  bed.  Red  globes,  as  bright  on  the  inside  as  out,  almost  seedless,  sweet  to  bite  into,  sweeter  than  raspberry  Jell-O.  Wilting  in  the  garage,  desper-  ately  etiolated,  wanting  outdoors.  a  HEN  seedlings  have  one  or  two  pairs  of  leaves  or  begin  to  crowd  each  other,  it's  time  to  trans-  plant.&quot;  Now  here's  Sissy  on  her  knees,  try-  ing  to  tend  the  little  boys  and  turn  topsoil  simultaneously.  Pioneer  woman,  clearing  the  wilderness,  30  X  40  feet,  of  its  winter  harvest  of  stone,  digs  at  it  with  a  trowel,  scrapes  with  the  fork,  tugs  at  an  entrenched  dandelion  root.  The  dandelion,  the  ubiquitous  plantain  have  spread  through  the  lawn,  encour-  aged  by  yet  more  rain.  Today,  for  once,  the  sun  is  out.  The  sun  is  baking  the  soil  to  crust,  mud  pie.  It  is  painting  ared  streak  down  the  nose  of  this  other  amateur.  The  children  are  making  mud  pies  in  the  cold  frame,  where  the  only  growing  things  are  the  lilac  clubs  of  wild  leeks.  Correction:  they  were.  Ac-  tually,  Chuck  is  making  a  kind  of  stone  pie,  a  cairn  of  rock.  Assisting  his  broth-  er,  Kenny  accidentally  hits  him  on  the  head.  City  woman,  pioneer,  having  soothed  her  brats,  returns  to  her  task,  ren-  dering  dirt.  Scratch,  tug,  like  the  birds.  Tomato-breasted  robins  hunt  for  worms  by  the  compost  heap,  where  hun-  dreds  ooze  and  thrust  in  the  dark-  ness,  under  the  rose  cuttings;  some  of  them  as  big  as  snakes.  Under  the  bird-  bath,  which  Cornelia  has  filled,  a  blue  jay  and  a  squirrel  have  started  a  fight.  Squirrel  loses.  Jay  gives  a  final  cheer  and  flies  off,  leaving  behind  a  blue  feather  to  commemorate  the  victory.  &quot;Kenny,  don't  take  your  shoes  off.  There  are  sharp  things  in  the  grass.&quot;  A  boy  a  head  taller  than  Chuck  is  watching,  silently,  by  the  compost  pile,  as  the  three  of  them  work.  &quot;Do  you  want  to  play?&quot;  Sissy  asks  after  five  minutes.  &quot;They're  Mr.  Holcomb's  grandchildren.&quot;  Disclosing  a  space  in  the  mouth  which  shows  he's  earned  a  dollar  or  two  from  the  Tooth  Fairy,  he  beams.  &quot;Oh,  Mr.  Holcomb.  He's  my  friend.&quot;  Chuck  nonchalantly  steps  backward  and  sits  down  on  some  thorn  cuttings  his  aunt  failed  to  put  into  the  pail.  %  HY,  Myron!  We  didn't  expect  you  till  next  week.&quot;  A  dark  man  who  claims  to  be  complected  of  Africa,  Cherokee,  and  [REDACTED]  ar-  rives  with  the  rain.  &quot;Mr.  Holcomb  and  I,  we  didn't  get  time  to  fix  up  that  garden,  and  I  know  the  lawn  needs  doing.  Anyway,  I  thought  I'd  look  in  on  you  folks,  I  know  you  want  every-  thing  nice  when  he  comes  back.  I  promised  him  I'd  look  after  you  and  all.&quot;  And  all.  Gently,  she  says,  &quot;'There  are  a  thousand  and  one  jobs  that  need  to  be  done.  The  girls  havebeen  working  like  de-  mons  down  there.  I'm  afraid  to  look.  But  you  can't  work  outside  in  the  rain.  You'll  catch  your  death.&quot;  &quot;Mr.  Sanders  saidI  could  switch  weekends.  When  it  stops  rain-  ing  I'll  do  the  grass.  Then  maybe  about  that  vegetable  garden.&quot;  &quot;Well,  if  you  promise  to  stay  in-  side.&quot;  &quot;Cross  my  heart.&quot;  Weeping  water,  he  goes  down  to  the  basement.  There  is  work  to  be  done  in  the  cellar,  too;  they  were  whitewashing  the  walls  to-  gether  when  the  old  man  heard  that  his  hospital  bed  was  waiting  for  him.  There  is  no  change  in  the  weather,  |  and  presently,  working  alone  in  the  waterproof  basement,  he  sighs,  takes  an  old  rubber  coat  that  hangs  from  a  peg  by  the  cellar  steps,  stiff  as  though  there  were  a  man  inside,  finds  some  boots  and  a  rain  hat,  goes  out  to  tend  the  plantation.  She  catches  sight  of  him  from  time  to  time,  from  an  upstairs  window:  an  old  hat  and  a  coat  moving  around  the  gardens.  &quot;Oh  Ben-Myron!  Come  in  and  eat  something,&quot;  she  calls.  He's  dug  up  most  of  the  god-  dam  vegetable  patch,  turned  it  over,  dragged  the  rake  round  it  to  curry  the  pebbles  from  the  mud,  but  Mr.  Holcomb  likes  it  to  be  composted  too.  Lunchless,  emptying  barrowfuls  of  compost,  pushing  aside  the  thorn-cut-  ting  topping  of  the  mulch  pile  (getting  only  a  little  scratched).  Next  time,  he  can  get  rid  of  them  where  they  belong.  Rain  makes  soup  of  the  rich  brown  mixture  trickling  in  dilute  down  the  slope  of  the  lawn.  Time  for  him  to  catch  his  train  now.  But  the  work  of  turning  the  soil  is  finished.  The  roses  are  pruned.  Too  bad  about  them  tomatoes.  May-  be  the  girls  can  get  them  in.  When  the  sun  comes  out  and  they  can  rake  it  over,  making  the  surface  fine  and  soft  and  crumbly,  put  in  those  seed-  lings  and  seeds  and  bulbs  like  he  keeps  asking.  Myron  changes  clothes  again,  put-  ting  the  coat  and  hat  and  boots  where  he  found  them.  One  of  the  cellar  doors  opens  to  a  secret  staircase,  a  hiding  hole  under  the  porch.  Slave  people  used  to  live  there  while  they  were  running  " b"away,  Mr.  Holcomb  says.  Then  he  writes  with  some  effort  on  the  space  at  the  end  of  a  highly  complicated  list:  &quot;You  get  out  of  there  and  come  home.&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cPREPARING  ror  OuTstopr  Praxnt-  inc  (Hardening  Off):  About  a  week  before  putting  the  seedlings  in  the  garden,  toughen  them  by  gradually  exposing  them  to  more  air  and  a  low-  er  temperature.  ...  If  you  have  a  cold  frame,  use  that.  ...  An  express  wagon  or  cart  is  handy  for  holding  flats  or  pots  of  seedlings.  Wheel  them  out  into  the  sun  in  the  daytime,  back  into  the  ga-  rage  or  shed  at  night.&quot;  A  fair  day  (for  once)  in  the  gar-  den,  where  Sissy  and  Cornelia  are  laboring  like  field  hands;  their  work  is  cut  out  for  them.  Sunday,  busy  day  in  the  village.  Automobiles  converg-  ing  on  the  three  churches.  Close  by,  a  carillon  plays  hymn  tunes.  O  God,  Our  Help  in  Ages  Past.  How  Firm  a  Foundation.  &quot;A  N  hour  or  more  before  you  trans-  plant  into  your  garden,  water  the  flats  or  containers  well,  preferably  with  a  solution  of  Transplantone,  and  let  them  drain.  This  will  reduce  the  possibility  of  wilt  and  shock.&quot;  The  seedlings  are  limp  from  their  time  in  the  garage,  but  with  luck  and  water  and  plenty  of  sunshine  they'll  grow  and  bear  tomatoes.  (Not  so  lucky  the  peppers,  which  have  already  perished  and  gone  to  the  mulch  pile.)  &quot;Cornelia,  I'll  dig  the  holes,&quot;  Sissy  says.  &quot;You  follow  with  the  tomato  plants.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  and  they  have  to  be  watered.  Where's  the  nozzle?&quot;  Cornelia  goes  into  the  garage  and  comes  out  with  Kenny  and  the  brass  nozzle.  &quot;He  was  eating  an  onion  bulb.  Now.  Chuck,  do  you  know  how  to  turn  the  water  on?&quot;  He  does,  and  Kenny,  who  was  looking  up  the  end  of  the  nozzle,  gets  an  eyeful.  &quot;Cornelia,  whatever  happened  to  those  new  pruning  shears?&quot;  Down  by  the  water,  sailing  people  are  getting  their  boats  in  shape,  land-  lubbers  stroll  in  the  park,  cruise  slow-  ly  by  the  water's  rim  in  their  cars  on  their  way  home  from  church.  After  three  warm  rainy  days,  a  considera-  bly  greener  town;  theleaves  are  bigger  than  squirrels'  ears;  well  past  the  time  when  the  Indians  saidto  plant  corn.  Pink-white  blossoms  on  the  apple  trees.  The  children's  grandmother  comes  out  and  inspects  their  progress;  two  tomato  plants  set  in.  &quot;It's  past  noon:  they  just  rang  for  Communion  at  St.  John's,  girls.  Sissy,  are  you  ready?  It's  mean  to  keep  him  waiting;  let's  get  going.&quot;  &quot;Ihave  to  take  the  children  to  the  Noonans'.&quot;  They  follow  their  mother  grudgingly-Kenny  with  his  big  lip,  Chuck  pretending  not  to  care,  aban-  doning  the  garden  temporarily,  the  to-  mato  plants  dying  slowly  under  the  sun.  MRS.  Noonax's  kitchen:  &quot;Don't  cry,  Kenny.  Chuck,  listen,  I  hear  the  Good  Humor-truck  bells.  I'll  tell  you  boys  a  story.  Once  upon  a  time  there  was  a  family  of  birds  who  lived  in  a  hayfield  and  went  by  the  name  of  White.  All  summer  long  they  were  happy  as  larks,  with  plenty  to  eat  and  noone  to  pester  them  in  the  tall  warm  hay.  Every  morning  the  chicks  practiced  flying,  and  every  evening  you  could  hear  the  mother  bird  calling  them  all  home  to  the  nest:  'White!  White!  White!&quot;  Then  one  afternoon  Momma  White  went  scurrying  to  find  her  husband.  'Bob  White!  Bob  White!  The  most  terrible  thing!  I  heard  the  farmer  talking  to  the  hired  man.  He  said,  &quot;Sam,  the  hay's  getting  pretty  high  in  the  [REDACTED]  Forty.Better  get  out  your  mower  and  cut  it  tomorrow.&quot;  He'll  cut  down  our  nest  and  our  chickens  can't  fly  yet.  Bob  White,  what  are  we  going  to  do?'  'Not  to  worry,  Momma,&quot;  says  Bob.  'Our  chicks  will  be  ready  to  fly  any  day  now.'  'But  to- morrow  the  mowing  man's  coming,  with  his  terrible  long,  sharp  blades.  'The  farmer's  gone  to  town  to  sell  some  pigs.  They'll  have  their  wings  before  the  mower  comes.&quot;  Next  day  the  hired  man  went  out  to  cut  the  hay,  going  round  and  round  the  field  with  his  mowing  machine.  The  little  Whites  heard  the  blades  and  were  frightened,  but  Bob  White  told  them,  'He  won't  come  near  our  nest  today.'  Sure  enough,  the  sun  gothot  and  the  hired  man  decided  to  take  a  nap  under  the  big  shade  trees.  When  he  woke  up  it  was  sundown,  so  he  called  it  a  day  and  went  home.  Next  day:  'Bob  White!  Bob  White!  I  hear  the  hired  man  cutting  down  the  hay.  My  chickens  can't  fly  yet.  What,  what  shall  we  do?&quot;  'The  farmer's  still  away,  my  sweet,  says  Mr.  White.  'The  hired  man  won't  do  the  job  today.'  The  same  thing  happens.  The  hired  man  cuts  down  a  little  bit  more  of  the  field.  And  the  next  day,  too.  But  that  night  Mr.  White  hears  the  farmer  driving  up,  back  from  the  town.  'Well,  Sam,  how  did  you  make  out  with  the  [REDACTED]  Forty?&quot;  and  the  hired  man  replies,  'I've  had  a  bad  pieceof  luck  with  the  mower.  One  horse  gota  stone  in  its  hoof.&quot;  Hmm.  Well,  says  the  farm-  er,  'I  guess  Pd  better  do  it  myself.  Bob  White  scurried  home.  'Momma  White!  Are  the  children  ready  to  fly?  'I  think  so,  Bob.&quot;  'The  hay  will  be  cut " b"tomorrow  for  sure.  Get  set  to  fly!  Bright  and  early  next  morning  the  farmer  hitched  up  his  horses  and  went  out  and  cut  down  the  hayfield.  Just  as  the  blades  reached  the  nest,  the  little  birds  rose  out  of  the  hay,  whir,whir,  whir,  whir,  whir  and  up  into  the  sky,  safe  from  the  mower  with  its  long,  sharp  blades.  'You  see,'  said  Bob  as  they  all  went  soaring.  'What  the  farmer  tells  the  hired  man  to  do  is  one  thing,  but  when  the  farmer  says  he'll  do  it  himself,  it  gets  done.&quot;&quot;  HE  women  of  the  house  are  back  from  the  hospital.  Sissy  goes  next  door  to  collect  her  children,  Cornelia  and  her  mother  to  the  garden.  There  they  find  a  large-hatted  lady  kneeling  by  the  tomatoes;  tomato  plants,  seven  of  them,  march  down  a  row,  begin-  ning  to  lift  their  leaves  like  wings.  &quot;Whew,  I  think  I'm  getting  sun-  stroke,&quot;  Alice  says.  &quot;I  just  dropped  by  to  see  how  thingsare  and  noticed  Ben's  tomatoes  not  getting  any  healthier.  Once  you  get  started,  it's  hard  to  stop,&quot;  she  apologizes,  red-faced  middle-  aged  lady  planting  somebody  else's  to-  matoes.  &quot;Who's  that?&quot;  Cornelia  asks.  A  white  Chevrolet  grinds  up  the  drive,  way,  and  the  Forsters  stepout,  still  in  church  clothes.  &quot;Nobody  answered,  so  we  just  de-  cided  to  drop  these  on  the  doorstep.&quot;  Polly  Forster  has  packages  under  her  arm,  a  crossword-puzzle  book  forthe  mother.  &quot;And  I  thought  he'd  like  to  see  the  new  Agatha  Christie.&quot;  &quot;Who  pruned  Ben's  rosebushes?&quot;  Robert  Forster  asks.  &quot;Not  a  bad  job.  You  should  chase  those  aphids,  though.  Mine  were  crawling  with  them.  And  your  Peaces  need  to  becut  back  some  more,  they're  too  leggy.  Let  me  show  you.&quot;  He  fetches  shears  from  the  garage,  begins  to  clip.  &quot;I  poked  around  for  those  new  rustproof,  spring-action,  su-  per-sharp,  carborundum-coated  shears  I  saw  him  buying  downtown  the  other  Saturday,  but  they've  vanished.  Say,  you  ought  to  do  something  with  those  onions  in  the  garage,  they've  sprout,  ed.&quot;  &quot;Where  do  you  think  they  should  go?&quot;  Cornelia  asks.  Her  sister,  Kenny,  Chuck,  and  a  neighbor  child  joining  them,  along  with  Mrs.  Noonan,  who  is,  as  always,  pregnant.  &quot;How  too  bad  about  Mr.  Holcomb.  We  haven't  known  each  other  very  well,  but  Tommy  and  Billy  are  over  here  all  the  time,  helping  him  out.  I  think  Mr.  H.  let  them  bury  a  dead  bird.  We  all  love  to  see  the  gar-  dens-Jim  and  I  certainly  intend  to ask  his  advice  about  getting  one  in  our-  selves.  Whenever  we  stop  having  ba-  bies.  Can  I  help?&quot;  &quot;We  bettergo,  Robert.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  stay  awhile,&quot;begs  the  gar-  dener's  wife.  But  Robert  and  Polly  are  back  half  anhour  later,  having  changed  to  gar-  dening  clothes,  with  their  son  Ronald,  whose  number  in  the  draft  lottery  came  up  unlucky  and  who  is  fighting  to  become  a  conscientious  objector.  &quot;I  helped  with  plenty  of  jobs  for  your  father  last  summer,&quot;  he  informs  Cor-  nelia.  &quot;Boy,  can  he  work!&quot;  He  shakes  his  head,  starting  on  the  onions.  &quot;He  always  made  me  take  home  stuff  for  the  salad.  I  used  to  think  dill  was  just  a  brand  name  for  pickles.&quot;  Another  car  enters  the  by  now  crowded  driveway  turnaround;  it's  the  Sanderses,  the  sharers  of  Myron,  who  live  in  a  house  as  old  as  this  one.  &quot;We  heard  you  were  having  a  garden  party,  so  we  brought  you  some  bell-pepper  plants.  Stan  got  greedy  at  the  seed  store.&quot;  The  doctor  next  door,  whose  wife  has  been  nagging  him  to  clip  the  hedge  that  partitions  their  properties,  looks  down  from  the  stepladder,  sees  the  party,  and  joins  them.  Mrs.  Noonan  comes  over  again,  with  a  couple  more  children  and  some  homemade  brownies,  the  recipe  for  which  is  sought  by  the  women  (Betty  Crocker).  Sissy,  eagerly  assisted  by  her  sons,  finds  ice  creamand  cold  drinks and  brings  out  more  refreshments.  Cornelia  lugs  the  rickety  table  from  the  garage  to  the  grass  to  put  them  on.  And  packets  of  seeds:  beets,  carrots,  pumpkins,  Bibb  lettuce,  Oak  Leaf  let-  tuce,  chicory,  romaine,  sage,  parsley,  zucchini,  peas,  green  beans,  radishes,  sweet  corn.  Corn?  (His  intention  was  to  start  a  new  garden  for  corn  and  the  late-bloomers,  squash,  pumpkins,  and  gourds;  never  mind.)  Well,  maybe  one  short  row  of  corn.  THE professional  way  to  go  about  garden  planning  is  to  lay  it  out  to  scale  using  a  sheet  of  graph  paper.&quot;  Bob  Forster,  a  professional  art  di-  rector  (whom  Myron  will  spot  at  the  Red  Radish  in  Greenwich  Village  next  Thursday  night  escorting  a  woman  younger  than  Polly),  reads  off  the  di-  rections  on  the  backs  of  the  seed  pack-  ages,  writes  idly  along  the  back  of  an  envelope:  and,  laid  out  first  on  paper,  then  under  their  hands,  a  garden  takes  shape.  &quot;Joe,  " b"where  the  hell  are  you?&quot;  a  woman  next  door  is  calling.  Finishing  her  to-  mato  job,  Alice,  whose  Jack  slipped  on  their  yacht,  struck  his  head  on  the  dinghy,  and  drowned  one  summer,  be-  gins  on  the  peppers.  The  son  of  the  Sanderses,  who  once  planted  a  chestnut  by  the  house  (the  tree  is  tall  as  the  roof  now),  would  surely  be  here,  were  he  not  serving  an  eight-month  term  in  the  state  reformatory  for  pushing  mari-  juana  at  the  local  high  school.  But  the  people  in  the  garden  have  other  matters  to  discuss:  horticulture,  the  absent  gardener.  &quot;'These  bulbs  look  like  something's  been  eating  them.&quot;  &quot;''The  raccoons  have  been  out  of  hand  this  year.&quot;  &quot;Look,  there's  more  of  that  Cyperus  he  divided  and  gave  me  a  clump  of.  I've  gotten  three  plants  out  of  it  al-  ready.  I  almost  wish  they  would  stop  spreading.&quot;  &quot;I  see  he's  building  another  compost  heap.  He  made  me  stick  my  arm  in  it  up  to  the  elbow  once,  so  I  could  see  how  hot  it  was  inside.&quot;  &quot;Kenny,  darling,  you're  standing  right  on  the  cucumbers.  Oh,  you're  helping  Mommy  plant,  too.  Well,  those  are  petunia  seeds,  baby.  I  guess  they'll  look  real  pretty  with  the  cu-  cumbers.  .  .  .  Goodness,  I  thought  they  were  cucumbers.  I  guess  the  petunias  will  look  real  pretty  with  the  Swiss  chard.&quot;  &quot;Mona,  Stan,&quot;  the  gardener's  wife  remembers.  &quot;That  time  during  the  war  when  hoodlums  destroyed  the  Yo-  konabes'  Victory  Garden!  (You  went  to  kindergarten  with  Toby  Yokonabe,  Cornelia.  )&quot;  &quot;And  the  next  dayeverybody  came  over  and  replanted  it  for  them.  Stran-  gers,  neighbors.&quot;  (The  Yokonabes,  who  were  denied  membership  at  any  of  the  beach  clubs,  moved  away  as  soon  as  the  war  was  over.)  &quot;Polly,  are  you  sure  you've  got  the  right  end  of  the  onions  up?&quot;  Y  five  o'clock  the  garden  is  weeded,  seeded,  watered,  and  ready  to  grow.  Rows  of  tomato  plants,  row  of  peppers,  acolorful  random  growth  of  seed  envelopes  inverted  on  ice-cream  sticks  from  Billy  Noonan's  collection-all  the  seeds,  including  those  the  gardener  meant  to  reserve  for  succession  plantings-signs  ex-  pounding  the  harvest  to  come,  bill-  boards  for  starlings  (and,  for  carrots,  a  tombstone).  Polly  has  planted  the  onions  upside  down,  and  some  of  them  were  hyacinths,  but  it  doesn't  matter;  there  will  be  onions.  Next  spring  a  soli-  tary  purple  hyacinth  will  erupt  from  the  bare  earth  in  their  row.  Squash  blossoms  may  never  pollinate  and  set,  raccoons  may  eat  the  lettuce,  corn  mil-  dew,  there  will  betoo  many  gourds,  who  cares?  Amiable,  smug,  kind  and  bigoted,     unfaithful,  loyal,  mortal,  they  all  stand  back  and  admire  the  job  they've  done.  WO  weeks  later,  the  neat  brown  area  is  filmy  with  seedlings,  some  of  them  uninvited,  not  all  as  repre-  sented  on  the  seed  packets.  The  con-  valescent,  home  from  the  hospital  at  last,  can't  wait  to  get  a  look  at  his  property.  He  goes  slowly  around  the  house,  checking  all:  lawn  ragged,  tulips  need  separating,  beech  branch  fallen  almost  in  the  driveway.  Making  a  mental  list.  (1)  Hospital  azaleas  by  the  flagstone  path  to  the  veranda.  (2)  Clip  hedge.  They  show  him  his  rose  garden,  his  vegetable  garden.  The  high-shouldered  tomato  plants  too  close  to  the  surface  of  the  ground,  the  puny  peppers,  the  salad  vegetables,  herbs,  beets  he  might  never  have  thought  to  see;  he  blesses  them,  weedsand  all.  &quot;Wonderful!  You've  done  a  great  job!  Couldn't  have  done  it  better  myself.&quot;  And  the  black  squirrel  scampers  up  the  elm  tree.  "