 b"JACK:  Hello  out  there!  I'm  Jack  Dennis,  and  this  pretty  little  lady  beside  me  is  Kathy  Galloway,  and  we're  here  in  Pasadena  to  bring  you  all  the  color  and  excitement  of  the  eighty-seventh  annual  Tournament  of  Roses.  And,  Kathy,  it  sure  feels  a  little  funny  to  be  here  just  three  months  after  the  eighty-sixth  annual  Tourna-  ment  of  Roses,  doesn't  it?  Katey:  You  bet  it  does,  Jack.  But  I  think  everyone  in  the  country  is  thankful  that  the  President  has  finally  managed  to  stop  those  annual  double-  digit  inflation  rates  by  ending  the  year  nine  months  early.  Jack:  You  bet  they  are,  Kathy.  And  I'm  sure  they're  going  to  love  the  colorful  and  exciting  show  we  have  out  here  for  them  today.  Six  hundred  floats  and  fourteen  hundred  palomino  horses-and  the  tack  alone  on  those  horses  is  estimated  to  have  a  value  of  eight  hundred  thousand  dollars,  Kathy-and  one  hundred  and  seven  marching  bands  and  eight  and  a  half  million  dollars'  worth  of  fresh  flowers  and  this  year's  Grand  Marshal,  Ayn  Rand,  all  marching  down  Orange  Grove  Boulevard  to  depict  this  year's  theme,  an  inspiring  slogan  from  our  na-  tion's  history-  &quot;Whip  Inflation  Now.&quot;  Katey:  And  here  it  is,  Jack.  The  eighty-seventh  annual  Tournament  of  Roses  is  under  way!  The  lead  float  is  coming  right  down  Orange  Grove  Boulevard  now-an  entry  of  the  Presi-  dent's  Council  of  Economic  Advisers,  called  &quot;A  President's  Options  ina  Changing  World,&quot;  done  in  the  shape  of  a  gigantic  roulette  wheel.  Jack:  That's  right,  Kathy.  You  can  see  &quot;Tax  Surcharge&quot;  spelled  out  in  tulips  and  &quot;Tax  Cut&quot;  in  daisies,  and  an  invasion  of  the  Persian  [REDACTED]  states  depicted  in  marigolds,  and,  of  course,  many,  many  others.  Katey:  And  right  behind  the  Coun-  cil  of  Economic  Advisers  float  is  this  year's  Grand  Marshal,  Ayn  Rand,  escorted  by  a  phalanx  of  matched  stockbrokers  in  identical  Ford  Mus-  tangs.  Isn't  that  a  beautiful  sight,  Jack?  Jack:  You  bet  itis,  Kathy.  Imag-  ine  the  hours  those  stockbrokers  must  have  spent  shining  up  those  Mustangs  and  making  sure  those  neckties  were  knotted  absolutely  uniformly.  Surely  of  all  the  groups  that  sacrifice  their  time  and  talent  for  this  Tournament  of  Roses  the  plain,  hardworking  stock-  brokers  make-  KatHy:  Sorry  to  break  in,  Jack,  but  here  on  the  screen  is  the  float  that  is     this  year's  prize-winner  for  East  of  the  Mississippi  Non-Commercial  Entries  Inclusive  of  Municipal  and  /or  State  Units  of  Government  and  Construct-  ed  Without  Professional  Assistance  Largely  in  Spare  Time  but  Exclusive  of  Sundays.  This  entry  is  from  Mill  River,  [REDACTED],  and  there  you  can  see  the  huge  &quot;D&quot;  formed  out  of  chrysanthemums,  standing  for  ...  let  me  see  .  ..  yep,  &quot;Desperation.&quot;  Jack:  You  bet  it  does,  Kathy.  Mill  River,  as  you  know,  was  the  regional  WIN  winner  this  winter  for  slowing  down  purchasing  as  a  way  to  whip  inflation.  Katey:  That's  right,  Jack.  They  finally  slowed  down  purchasing  in  Mill  River  to  nothing  on  January  18th,  when  the  last  ofthe  stores  closed.  Jack:  You  bet  they  did,  Kathy.  I  think  our  viewers  might  be  interested  to  know  that  the  folks  of  Mill  River  spent  thirty-seven  thousand  man-hours   making  this  float  entirely  out  of  chrys-  anthemums,  irises,  and  food  stamps.  It's  a  community  effort  of  which  they  KatHuy:  Sorry  to  break  in,  Jack,  but  coming  up  right  behind  them  on  the  left  of  the  screen  is  the  Herbert  Hoo-  ver  Junior  High  School  Strut  'n'  Hol-  ler  Noiseteers  from  San  Pedro,  Cali-  fornia,  playing  a  marching  arrange-  ment  of  &quot;Brother,  Can  You  Spare  a  Dime?&quot;  Jack:  You  bet  it  is,  Kathy.  I  think  the  folks  at  home  would  be  interested  in  how  this  fine  band,  under  the  direc-  tion  of  bandmaster  Lucius  Drent,  managed  to  get  here  all  the  way  from  San  Pedro.  They  wanted  to  come  so  badly,  these  young  folks,  that  they  raised  the  money  themselves  through  an  imaginative  community  fund-rais-  ing  program  right  in  their  own  com-  munity.  Katey:  That's  right,  Jack.  They  each  sold  a  pint  of  blood.  Jack:  Isn't  that  terrific,  Kathy?  KatHy:  You  bet  it  is,  Jack.  And  " b"coming  up  right  behind  the  Noiseteers  is  the  float  that  won  first  prize  in  the  category  of  Commercial  Entry  by  Middle-Sized  Corporations  with  No  Previous  Price-Fixing  Convictions.  It's  the  World  Universal  Holding  Corpo-  ration's  entry,  entitled  &quot;Adam  Smith's  Invisible  Hand.&quot;  For  this  float,  the  to-  tal  flowers  used  amount  to  ...  Well,  now  that  I  look  at  the  float  and  consult  my  notes  here,  I  see  that  there  were  no  flowers  used.  Jack:  Because  of  the  hand  being  invisible,  and  all.  Karey:  And  that's  the  beauty  of  it,  Jack.  The  flowers  not  used  on  this  float  totalled  forty-seven  hundred  marigolds,  thirteen  thousand  jonquils,  a  dozen  roses,  and  a  spider  mum.  The  man-hours  not  spent  on  this  float  be-  cause  of  the  invisibility  of  the  hand  were  thirty-three  hundred  and  fifty-  four  man-hours,  which  permitted  World  Universal  to  lay  off  one  entire  shift  until  further  notice.,  Jack:  Terrific,  Kathy.  And  let  me  just  read  this  note  that'sjust  been  handed  to  me.  It's  from  ...  let's  see.  Why,  it's  from  our  producer,  Johnny  Johnson.  Katey:  And  we  want  to  thank  Johnny  and  all  the  great  staff  who  gave  up  being  with  their  families  on  Good  Friday  to  lend  their  expert  as-  sistance  to  this  program.  What  does  Johnny  have  to  say,  Jack?  Jack:  He  says  I've  been  laid  off.  They're  cutting  back  costs.  Karey:  You  bet  they  are,  Jack.  And  I  think  the  folks  at  home  would  be  interested  to  hear  the  statistics  on  that  layoff.  It  took  fourteen  network  executives  to  reach  that  decision,  spending  one  hundred  and  forty-seven  man-hours,  exclusive  of  business  lunches.  And  the  bouquet  that  Johnny  Johnson  and  the  staff  are  sending  to  Jack's  lovely  wife  contains  seven  pe-  tunias  and  four  sunflowers.  Isn't  that  terrific,  Jack?  Jack:  You  bet  it  is,  Kathy. "