 b"NO  two  hills  are  alike,  but  every-  where  on  earth  plains  are  one  and  the  same.  I  was  making  my  way  in  such  country,  asking  my-  self,  not  that  it  really  mattered,  if  this  were  [REDACTED]  or  'Texas  or  the  part  of  the  Argentine  that  literary  men  called  the  pampa.  Neither  to  right  nor  left  did  I  see  a  fence.  As  on  other  occasions,  I  slowly  repeated  these  lines  by  the  poet  Emilio  Oribe  :  At  the  heart  of  the  endless  awesome  plain  and  close  by  the  border  of  [REDACTED],  which  keep  growing  and  ever  expand-  ing.  The  road  was  uneven.  Rain  began  to  fall.  Some  two  or  three  hundred  yards  off  I  saw  light  from  a  house,  which  was  lowand  rectangular  and  surrounded  by  trees.  The  door  was  opened  by  a  man  so  tall  he  almost  gave  me  a  fright.  He  was  dressed  in  gray.  I  felt  he  was  waiting  for  some-  one.  There  was  no  lock  on  the  door.  We  went  into  a  long  room  with  wooden  walls,  a  table,  and  chairs.  A  lamp  giving  off  a  yellowish  light  hung  from  the  ceiling.  The  table,  for  some  reason,  seemed  strange  to  me.  On  it  stood  an  hourglass,  the  first,  out-  side  of  some  steel  en-  graving  or  other,  I  had  ever  laid  eyes  on.  The  man  motioned  me  to  one  of  the  chairs.  I  tried  out  various  languages,  and  we  did  not  understand  each  oth-  er.  When  at  last  he  spoke,  he  did  so  in  Lat-  in.  I  dusted  off  what  I  remembered  from  my  now  distant  school  days,  readying  myself  for  conversation.  &quot;By  your  clothes,  I  see  you  come  from  another  century,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;A  diversity  of  tongues  favored  a  diver-  sity  of  peoples  and  even  of  wars.  The  world  has  fallen  back  on  Latin.  There  are  those  who  fear  it  may  degenerate  again  into  French,Lemosi,  or  Papia-  mento,  but  that  is  not  an  immediate  risk.  Be  that  as  it  may,  neither  the  past  nor  the  future  interests  me.&quot;  I  said  nothing,  and  he  added,  &quot;Wouldn't  you  like  to  eat  with  me?  There's  no  one  else  in  the  house.&quot;  Seeing  that  he  noticed  my  uneasiness,     I  said  yes.  We  went  down  a  cor-  ridor,  with  doors  on  either  hand,  that  led  to  a  small  kitchen  in  which  every-  thing  was  made  of  metal.  We  came  back  with  our  dinner  on  a  tray-bowls  of  cornflakes,  a  bunch  of  grapes,  an  unfamiliar  fruit  whose  taste  reminded  me  of  figs,  and  a  big  pitcher  of  water.  IfI  remember  correctly,  there  was  no  bread.  My  host's  features  were  sharp,  and  there  was  somethingun-  usual  about  his  eyes.  I  won't  forget  his  pale,  austere  face,  which  I  shall  never  see  again.  He  made  no  gestures  when  he  spoke.  Having  to  converse  in  Latin  inhibited  me,  but  at  last  I  said,  &quot;Doesn't  my  sudden  appearance  amaze  you?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;We  receive  such  visits  from  century  to  century.  They  don't  last  long.  Tomorrow,  atthe  latest,  you'll  be  home  again.&quot;  The  certainty  in  his  voice  was  reas-  suring.  I  thought  it  proper  to  introduce  myself,  &quot;I  am  Eudoro  Acevedo.  I  was  born  in  1897,  in  the  city  of  [REDACTED]  Aires.  I  am  seventy  years  old.  I  am  a  professor  of  English  and  American  literatures  and  a  writer  of  imaginative  tales.&quot;  &quot;I  remember  having  read,  not  with-  out  pleasure,  two  works  of  an  imagina-  tive  nature,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Travels  of  a  Captain  Lemuel  Gulli-  ver,  which  many  people  take  to  be  true,  and  the  'Summa  Theologiae.'  But  let's  not  speak  of  facts.  Facts  matter  to  no  one  anymore.  They  are  mere  points  of  departure  for  invention  and  rea-  soning.  In  our  schools  we  are  taught  doubt  and  the  art  of  forgetting-  above  all,  the  forgetting  of  what  is  personal  and  local.  We  live  in  time,  which  is  successive,  but  we  train  ourselves  to  live  sub  specie  aeternitatis.  Of  the  past  we  retain  a  few  names,  which  language  tends  to  lose.  We  shun  pointless  details.  We  have  neither  dates  nor  history.  Nor  have  we  statistics.  You  said  your  name  is  Eudoro.  I  can't  tell  you  my  name,  because  I'm  simply  called  Someone.&quot;  &quot;And  what  name?&quot;  &quot;He  had  none.&quot;     was  your  father's  N  one  of  the  walls  I  saw  a  shelf.  I  opened  a  book  at  random;  the  let-  ters  were  clean  and  undecipherable,  and  they  were  written  by  hand.  Their  angular  lines  reminded  me  ofthe  runic  alphabet,  which,  however,  was  only  used  for  writing  inscriptions.  I  reflected  that  these  men  of  the  future  were  not  only  taller  but  were  more  skilled.  In-  stinctively,  I  looked  at  the  man's  long,  fine  fingers.  &quot;Now  you  are  going  to  see  some-  thing  you've  never  seen,&quot;  he  said.  He  handed  me  a  copy  of  Thomas  More's  &quot;Utopia,&quot;  printed  in  Basel  in  the  year  1518;  leaves  and  pages  were  missing.  Somewhat  foolishly,  I  answered,  &quot;It's  a  printed  book.  At  home,  I  had  over  two  thousand  of  them,  though  they  were  neither  as  old  nor  as  valu-  able  as  this  one.&quot;  I  read  the  title  aloud.  The  man  laughed.  &quot;No  one  can  read  two  thousand  books.  In  the  four  centuries  I  have  lived,  I  haven't  read  more  than  fifteen.  Besides,  rereading,  not  reading,  is  what  counts.  Printing-  which  is  now  abolished,  since  it  tended  to  multiply  unnecessary  texts  to  the  point  of  dizziness-was  one  of  man's  worst  evils.&quot;  &quot;In  my  strange  past,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;the  superstition  prevailed  that  every  day,  between  evening  and  morning,  certain  acts  occur  which  it  is  a  shame  to  be  ignorant  of.  The  planet  was  populated  by  collective  ghosts-England,  [REDACTED],  the  Swiss  [REDACTED],and  the  Common  Market.  Almost  no  one  knew  anything  of  the  history  that  preceded  those  pla-  tonic  entities,  but,  of  course,  they  knew  every  last  detail  of  the  most  recent  congress  of  pedagogues,  or  of  imminent  breakdowns  in  diplomatic  relations,  or  of  statements  issued  by  vice-presidents,  drawn  up  by  the  secretary  of  a  secre-  tary  and  containing  all  the  carefully  worded  hazinessappropriate  to  the  genre.  These  things  were  read  to  be  forgotten,  for,  only  hours  later,  other  trivialities  would  blot  them  out.  Of  all  offices,  that  of  politician  was  without  doubt  the  most  public.  An  ambassador  or  a  Cabinet  minister  was  a  kind  of  cripple  whom  it  was  necessary  to  cart  around  in  long,  noisy  vehicles,  ringed  by  motorcyclists  and  military  escorts  and  awaited  by  eager  photographers.  It  seems  that  their  feet  have  been  cut  off,  my  mother  used  to  say.  Pictures  and  the  printed  word  were  more  real  than  the  things  they  stood  for.  Only  what  was  published  hadany  reality.  Esse  est  percipt  (to  be  is  to  be  photographed  )  was  the  beginning,  middle,  and  end  of  our  singular  idea  of  the  world.  In  that  past  of  mine,  people  were  naive;  they  believed  that  certain  merchandise  was  good  because  its  own  makers  claimed  so  over  and  over  again.  Robberies  were  also  frequent,  though  everyone  knew  " b"that  the  possession  of  money  brings  no  greater  happiness  or  peace  of  mind.&quot;  &quot;Money?&quot;  the  man  echoed.  &quot;No  one  any  longer  suffers  poverty,  which  must  have  been  unbearable,  or  wealth,  which  must  have  been  the  most  uncom-  fortable  form  of  vulgarity.  Everyone  has  a  calling.&quot;  &quot;Like  the  rabbis,&quot;  I  said.  He  appeared  not  to  understand  and  went  on.  &quot;Nor  are  there  cities  any-  more.  To  judge  by  the  ruins  of  Bahia  Blanca,  which  I  once  explored,  not  much  has  been  lost.  There  are  no  per-  sonal  possessions  now,  there  are  no  in-  heritances.  At  the  age  of  a  hundred,  when  a  man  matures,  he  is  ready  to  come  face  to  face  with  himself  and  his  loneliness.  By  thenhe  will  have  fa-  thered  a  child.&quot;  &quot;One  child?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Yes.  Only  one.  There  is  no  reason  to  carry  on  the  human  race.  Some  people  think  man  is  an  organ  of  the  godhead  for  universal  consciousness,  but  nobody  knows  for  sure  whether  such  a  godhead  exists.  'The  advantages  and  disadvan-  tagesof  gradual  or  simultaneous  sui-  cide  by  every  man  and  woman  on  earth  are,  I  believe,  now  being  argued.  But  let's  get  back  to  what  we  were  saying.&quot;  I  agreed.  &quot;Having  reached  a  hundred,  the  in-  dividual  no  longer  stands  in  need  of  love  or  friendship.  Evils  and  involun-  tary  death  are  no  threat  to  him.  He  practices  one  of  the  arts  or  philosophy  or  mathematics  or  he  plays  a  game  of  solitary  chess.  When  he  wants  to,  he  kills  himself.  Man  is  master  of  his  life.  He  is  also  master  of  his  death.&quot;  &quot;Is  that  a  quotation?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Of  course.  Quotations  are  all  we  have  now.  Language  is  a  system  of  quotations.&quot;  &quot;And  the  great  adventure  of  my  time-space  travel?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;It's  centuries  ago  now  that  those  travels  were  given  up.  They  were  cer-  tainly  to  be  admired.&quot;  With  a  smile,  he  added,  &quot;Besides,  all  travel  is  spatial.  To  go  from  one  planet  to  another  is  like  going  to  the  farm  across  the  way.  When  you  entered  this  room,  you  were  carrying  out  a  voyage  through  space.&quot;  &quot;That's  right,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;And  one  also  used  to  speak  of  chemical  sub-  stances  and  animals.&quot;  The  man  now  turned  his  back  to  me  and  looked  outside.  Beyond  the  windows,  theplain  was  white  with  silent  snow  and  moonlight.  I  got  up  my  courage  to  ask,  &quot;Are  there  still  museums  and  libraries?&quot;  &quot;No.  We  try  to  forget  the  past,  except  for  the  writing  of  elegies,  There  are  no  commemorations  or  anniver-saries  or  effigies  of  dead  men  now.  Each  ofus  must  himself  produce  the  arts  and  sciences  he  needs.&quot;  &quot;''Then  everyone  must  be  his  own  Bernard  Shaw,  his  own  Brahms,  his  own  Turner.&quot;  The  names  meant  nothing  to  him,  and  he  went  on.  &quot;I  built  this  house,  which  looks  like  all  others.  I  carved  this  furniture  and  these  utensils.  I  worked  the  fields,  which  will  pass  on  to  others  whose  facesI  have  never  seen.  May  I  show  you  a  few  things?&quot;  I  followed  him  into  an  adjoining  room.  He  lit  a  lamp  like  the  first  one;  it,  too,  hung  from  the  ceiling.  In  a  corner  I  saw  a  harp  with  few  strings.  On  the  walls  were  rectangular  can-  vases  in  which  yellow  tones  predomi-  nated.  The  work  did  not  seem  that  of  the  same  hand.  &quot;This  is  what  I  do,&quot;he  said.  I  examined  the  canvases,  stopping  before  the  smallest  one,  which  rep-  resented,  or  suggested,  a  sunset  and  which  encompassed  something  infinite.  &quot;If  you  like  it,  you  can  have  it  as  a  keepsake  of  a  future  friend,&quot;  he  said  matter-of-factly.  Just  then  a  knock  was  heard.  Three  or  four  tall  men  and  a  wom-  an  entered  the  house.  One  would  have  said  that  they  were  brothers  and  sisters  or  that  time  had  made  them  alike.  My  host  spoke  to  the  woman  first.  &quot;I  knew  you  wouldn't  fail  to  come  tonight.  Have  you  seen  Nils?&quot;  &quot;Off  and  on.  He's  as  devoted  to  his  painting  as  ever.&quot;  &quot;Let's  hope  with  more  suceess  than  his  father.&quot;  The  dismantling  began.  Manu-  scripts,  pictures,  furnishings,  utensils  we  left  nothing  in  the  house.  The  woman  worked  alongside  the  men.  I  was  ashamed  of  my  weakness,  which  scarcely  allowed  me  to  be  of  any  help.  No  one  shut  the  door  and  we  went  out,  loaded  with  things.  I  noticed  that  the  house  had  a  saddle  roof.  After  a  fifteen-minute  walk,  we  turned  left.  In  the  distance  I  made  out  a  kind  of  tower,  crowned  with  a  cupola.  &quot;It's  the  crematory,&quot;  someone  said,  &quot;Inside  it  is  the  lethal  chamber.  It's  said  to  have  been  invented  by  a  philan-  thropist  named,  I  think,  Gustav  Adolf  Hitler.&quot;  The  caretaker,  whose  stature  by  now  did  not  astonish  me,  opened  the  gate  to  us.  My  host  exchanged  a  few  words  with  him,.  Before  stepping  into  the  enclosure,  he  waved  goodbye.  &quot;It  looks  like  more  snow,&quot;  the  woman  said.  N  my  study  on  Mexico  Street,  in  [REDACTED]  Aires,  I  have  the  canvas  that  someone  will  paint,  thousands  of  years  from  now,  with  substances  today  scattered  over  the  whole  planet.  "