 b"MY  husband  learned  to  love  fly-ing  in  the  Army.  He  was  sent  to  [REDACTED],  and  flew  over  the  deltas  with  a  buddy.  After  his  hitch,  he  returned  unharmed,  but  not  to  me.  He  was  married  to  someone  else  at  the  time,  and  found  on  his  return  that  his  wife  didn't  want  him  anymore.  Of  this  he  says,  &quot;I  created  widows  during  the  war,  and  the  war  made  a  widow  out  of  me.&quot;  That  overstates  the  case,  but  he  is  a  man  not  unencumbered  by  theatricality  when  it  suits  his  purpose.  The  fact  is,  they  should  never  have  married.  They  were  both  at  Juilliard,  and  contem-  plated  a  life  of  sheet  music  and  duets.  When  he  went  to  [REDACTED],  he  thought  about  the  war,  and  she  thought  about  him.  If  he  had  thought  about  her-if  there  had  been  no  war  he  was  forced  to  contemplate-his  return  might  not  have  been  so  filled  with  bafflement.  My  husband  likes  the  intense  mo-  ments  of  flying-ice,  fog,  flying  on  in-  struments,  heavy  weather.  On  jets,  he  likes  takeoff,  landing,  and  air  turbu-  lence.  When  we  travel,  we  jet  to  some-  place  central  and  then  trek  through  the  airport  to  a  spur  line.  We  have  been  to  Laconia,  New  Hampshire,  on  Winnipesaukee;  Bear,  [REDACTED],  on   Wild  Cat;  Mya  Springs,  [REDACTED],  on  Cajun;  Fulton,  [REDACTED],  on  Rebel;  Mansard,  [REDACTED],  on  Apache;  and  Bogota,  [REDACTED],  on  El  Condor.  We  met  flying-or,  rather,  we  found  ourselves  at  the  same  table  at  the  same  inn,  having  flown  to  the  same  place.  The  inn  was  on  Tangier  Is-  land,  a  tiny  fishing  island  in  the  mid-  dle  of  the  Chesapeake  Bay  with  a  private  airstrip.  Our  table  was  full  of  aviators.  I  was  flown  there-as  a  favor  to  my  sister,  who  felt  I  should  get  out  more-by  a  jovial  lawyer  friend  of  my  brother-in-law's.  He  sat  next  to  me  while  I  leaned  against  the  table  and  stared  at  my  husband.  My  husband  is  a  concert  pianist  who  hates  performing.  Instead,  he  makes  records  and  tries  to  live  like  a  recluse.  He  hates  performing  because  he  hates  to  travel  for  a  purpose.  He  likes  travel  only  for  itself.  He  hates  hotels,  hotel  food,  and  schedules.  When  he  was  younger,  he  did  several  concert  tours,  and  they  baffled  him  the  way  hisdi-  vorce  did.  He  felt  there  was  no  cen-  ter  to  anything-just  a  series  of  cities  and  stages,  and  nothing  to  go  back  to.  Once  in  a  while,  his  agent  pressures  him  intoa  recital  at  Carnegie  orAlice  Tully  Hall,  for  which  he  trots  out  the  most  difficult  or  inaccessible  music  he  can  find-his  admirers  only  seem  to  love  him  more  for  it.  His  love  of  flying  has  made  his  agent  old  before  his  time,  or  so  his  agent  says.  &quot;Why  does  he  want  to  chance  death  so  often?&quot;  his  agent  asks.  &quot;It's  not  the  commercial  flights-it's  those  weird  little  planes  he  likes  to  fly  around  in.&quot;  My  husband  wants  to  be  weightless,  and  flying  is  as  close  as  he  can  get  to  it.  If  he  had  not  been  a  pianist,  he  might  have  been  an  astronaut,  he  thinks,  but  he  is  too  tall.  If  he  had  been  two  inches  taller,  he  would  never  have  been  drafted,  and  therefore  would  nev-  er  have  flown  at  all.  After  being  mar-  ried  to  him  for  three  years,  I  began  to  fear  that  he  would  crash-him,  not  me,  although  we  always  fly  together.  My  dreams,  which  were  usually  very  ordinary  dreams,  became  crowded  with  flaming  wreckage,  torn  limbs,  and  the  feeling  you  sometimes  have  before  falling  asleep  of  falling  out  of  gravity,  of  falling  straight  down.  O  one  thought  I  would  get  mar-  ried.  My  sister  and  mother  brooded  about  me,  but  I  did  not  fall  in  love  with  any  ease  or  frequency,  and  the  few  times  I  did,  nothing  ever  came  of  it.  Instead,  my  life  was  tidy.  I  had  an  apartment  overlooking  a  garden,  and  I  commuted  daily  in  a  secondhand  Saab  to  a  marine-biology  station  in  Riiks  Point,  Long  Island,  where  I  performed  experiments  with  oil-eating  algae.  My  sister  is  ten  years  older  than  I;  my  broth-  er  is  fifteen  years  older.  I  was  an  afterthought,  and  since  that  fact  is  undeniable  I  had  from  very  early  on  a  sense  of  adult  sexual  life.  When  I  learned  at  five  the  way  babies  are  created,  I  looked  at  my  hand-  some,  stoic  parents  and  realized  what  they  had  done  to  get  me.  Later,  I  felt  there  was  some-  thing  special,  something  particularly  loving  and  intense  about  my  con-  ception.  But  the  sense  of  being  an  afterthought  marked  me-although  I  was  not  an  unhappy  surprise  to  my  par-  ents-as  sickly  children  or  refugee  children  are  marked,  and  I  grew  up  thinking  that  I  would  " b"always  be  thought  of  last,  the  thing  that  you  didn't  plan  for  but  that  turned  up  anyway.  For  example,  when  I  met  my  husband  on  Tangier  Island,  it  nev-  er  occurred  to  me  that  I  would  ever  see  him  again.  When  I  got  to  know  him,  he  did  not  expect  ever  to  remarry,  although  at  the  timehe  was  allied  with  a  flutist  with  long  red  hair.  He  thought  his  first  wife  hadbroken  his  heart  irreparably.  I  am  tall,  wide-  boned,  but  thin.  In  the  summer,  I  tan  easily.  I  spent  a  year  at  a  marine-biology  station  at  Baja,  and  a  summer  at  Woods  Hole,  and  each  time  turned  the  color  of  burnt  cork.  But  in  the  winter  I  am  slightly  yellow.  My  hair  is  my  best  feature:  very  thick,  very  straight-a  darkish-yellow  color.  For  this  reason,  although  my  given  name  is  Marguerite,  my  baby  name  was  Butter.  The  day  I  met  my  husband,  he  said  two  things  that  shocked  me.  After  lunch,  we  walked  around  the  island,  by  theshore.  The  aviators  ambled  to-  gether,  talking  shop.I  walked  with  my  husband.  At  the  water's  edge,  he  said,  &quot;'You  have  a  very  contemplative  rela-  tionship  with  the  ocean,&quot;  and  I  ex-  plained  that  I  was  a  marine  biologist.  Then  he  said,  &quot;'You  look  very  buttery.  I  noticed  at  lunch.&quot;  If  itis  true  that  you  can  feel  a  wave  of  love,  I  did.  I  felt  my  heart  being  torn  open,  and  I  accepted  it.  It  was  something  that  happened  without  con-  sequence,  soI  let  it  happen.  On  that  particular  day,  my  vision  of  these  mat-  ters  was  particularlybleak,  and  I  did  not  believe  that  any  virtue  came  of  chance  meetings  or  accidents  of  des-  tiny.  But  suddenly  I  felt  intelligible  to  another  person,  who  knew  by  looking  that  I  had  been  called  Butter  and  that  I  had  a  connection  with  the  sea.  It  was  only  a  moment,  but  I  was  grateful.  It  is  not  everyone  who  gets  a  moment  of  unexpected  understanding  on  a  remote  island  you  have  to  fly  in  a  private  plane  to  get  to.  By  the  end  of  the  afternoon,  we  had  trotted  the  circumference  of  Tangier  twice  and  went  back  to  the  airstrip  to  fit  ourselves  into  separate  planes.  My  husband  knew  my  name  and  where  I  lived,  and  I  knew  his  name  and  where  he  lived.  We  shook  hands  as  our  two  pilots  started  their  engines  and  the  propellers  churned  up  the  air.  I  never  thought  that  I  would  see  him  again,  but  I  did.  He  came  to  see  me  one  rainy  evening  without  calling  first,  without  giving  any  reason  for  his  visit.  He  might  have  said,  &quot;People  shouldn't  meet  onan  island  and  never  see  each  other  again,&quot;  but  he  didn't.  He  gave  my  apartment  the  once-over,  and  satin  the  best  chair.  At  the  time,  Ilived  in  all  ways  like  a  Shaker.  My  apartment  might  have  had  fresh  straw  on  the  floor.  It  was  an  old  Village  apartment,  scrupulously  scrubbed.  The  rafter  beams  had  been  exposed,  and  they  were  scrubbed,  too.  All  the  walls  were  white.  I  didn't  have  much  in  the  way  of  ornament  or  furni-  ture,  so  it  was  not  entirely  my  fault  that  my  apartment  looked  like  a  re-  stored  room  at  the  Hancock  Shaker  Village.  What  I  had  was  old.  I  had  a  glass  bird  from  my  grandfather,  an  eighty-year-old  decoy  given  to  me  by  my  boss  at  Woods  Hole,  and  my  fa-  ther's  brass  fishing  rod,  hung  across  two  hooks.  I  had  a  watercolor  of  flow-  ers  my  grandmother  had  painted,  and  a  picture  of  a  donkey,  done  by  my  great-grandmother.  I  hadn't  had  any-  one  to  love  in  three  years.  My  husband  sat  in  an  armchair  and  asked  if  I  would  like  to  have  dinner  with  him-if  I  was  hungry,  that  is.  His  visit  was  so  informal  that  I  didn't  feel  the  need  to  state  anything  except  the  case.  I  said  that  I  didn't  want  to  go  outbut  that  I  would  feed  him.  The  food  I  lived  on  was  eccentric.  I  strained  yogurt  through  cheesecloth  to  concentrate  it,  and  I  ate  it  with  pickled  cabbage  and  salted  Japanese  plums.  I  cooked  carrots  with  honey  and  garlic  and  ate  them  cold-the  odd  tastes  of  a  solitary  person.  When  I  had  people  in  to  dinner,  I  spent  days  won-  dering  what  ordinary  people  ate.  I  gave  my  husband  what  I  ate:  a  cup  of  thick  yogurt;  a  plate  of  pickled  cabbage,  salted  plums,  and  cold  carrots;  and  some  chicken  cooked  the  way  I  liked  it-with  soy  sauce,  paprika,  and  clove.  He  never  batted  an  eve.  He  ate  what  was  set  before  him  and  never  said  he  found  the  meal  strange,  which  warmed  me  to  him.  It  never  occurred  to  me  that  he  might  have  the  same  odd  taste,  or  his  own  odd  taste.  Outside,  the  rain  spun  on  intensely.  My  husband  said,  &quot;I  came  over  here  to  claim  you,  if  that's  possible.&quot;  When  I  looked  at  him,  I  realized  that  I  had  never  wanted  anyone  so  much  in  my  life,  soI  claimed  him,  too.  HUS,  at  the  age  of  thirty,  in  top  physical  condition,  with  excellent  training  and  an  excellent  job,  the  au-  thor  of  two  highly  praised  mono-  graphs-one  on  oil-eating  algae  and  one  on  the  regenerative  mechanism  in  starfish-I  found  myself  involved  with  a  tall,  standoffish,  moody,  and  tem-  peramental  pianist,  who,  at  the  time  we  claimed  each  other,  was  living  on  the  " b"upper  West  Side  with  a  girl  flutist.  It  was  not  until  weeks  later,  by  which  time  my  husband  and  I  claimed  each  other  every  chance  we  got,  that  I  knew  of  his  alliance  with  her.  I  never  knew  her  name.  After  I  was  made  aware  of  her  existence,  there  were  times  when  my  husband  did  not  call  when  he  said  he  would,  or  called  to  say  that  he  would  not  appear  as  he  had  planned,  and  I  expect  he  thought  that  my  knowledge  of  his  situation  would  get  him  off  the  hook.  On  the  other  hand,  my  husband  knew  the  condition  that  lay  beneath  that  tidy  apartment.  He  knew  I  strove  to  keep  my  life  level,  and  that  if  he  was  not  around  I  would  work  at  my  research,  commute  to  work,  strain  my  yogurt,  and  live  asI  had  always  done.  He  knew  I  didn't  want  to  expect  much-I  was  frightened  to.  He  knew  if  he  wasn't  around  I  would  step  back  and  run  my  life  as  if  he  had  never  walked  into  it.  But  he  was  wrong.  He  didn't  know  what  he  had  done,  soI  told  him,  as  simply  as  you  explain  addition  to  a  child.  I  told  him  that  I  had  a  heart  to  break  and  that  he  was  breaking  it.  I  said  I  didn't  want  to  be  misunderstood,  and  as  I  said  these  things  I  could  imagine  how  he  would  look  leaving  my  apartment,  and  how  I  would  feel  watching  him  walk  down  the  street.  But  he  didn't  leave.  He  asked  me  to  marry  him.  Then  he  went  home  and  settled  matters  with  the  flutist.  Five  months  later,  we  were  married  at  my  parents'  house,  and  the  chief  emotional  feature  of  that  wedding  was  relief.  But  retrospect  makes  everything  look  easy.  It  wasn't  as  easy  as  that.  There  was  a  large  gulf  between  find-  ing  out  about  the  flutist  and  saying  anything  about  it-I  was  that  glad  to  have  someone  love  me.  I  wanted  my  Shaker  life  disturbed  utterly  but  quiet-  ly.  I  didn't  want  slammed  doors  or  shouting.  One  night,  my  husband  and  I  sat  down  quietly  and  wrenched  our hearts  out-at  least,  I  wrenched  mine.  He  went  home,  and  for  a  week  I  didn't  see  him.  Those  nights,I  felt  I  was  sleeping  on  top  of  a  live  wire  in  a  rainstorm,  I  was  so  fearful.  I  made  lists  of  his  bad  qualities:  covert,  silent,  moody,  sometimes  won't  talk,  doc-  trinaire  about  music,  frequently  snob-  bish,  has  girl  on  whom  he  cheats  with  me,  I  thought  I  would  never  come  to  know  him.  On  the  other  hand,  when  he  looked  at  my  life  what  did  he  see?  Did  he  see  some  multilayered,  complicated  homemade  jam  with  a  thick  seal  of  paraffin  on  top?  How  did  he  know  what  he  was  getting  into?  Well,  he  left  the  flutist  without  a  trace-on  himself  I  mean.  I  never  saw  one  of  her  possessions,  or  any  letter  she  may  have  written,.  One  day  he  showed  me  a  diary  he  kept  sporadically-two  years  in  one  notebook,  mostly  musical  ruminations.  He  lived  with  her  a  vear,  and  she  was  never  mentioned  once.  Y  husband  had  been  drafted  over  the  protest  of  his  agent,  the  head  of  Juilliard,  and  several  renowned  " b"pianists.  'The  president  of  Octagon  Records  had  threatened  to  take  out  a  protest  ad  in  the  Times,  but  my  hus-  band  put  his  foot  down.  None  of  this  sat  well  with  him-he  didn't  see  why  he  should  be  exempt  from  service  be-  cause  he  was  talented,  while  those  who  were  not  talented  were  unspared.  It  was  not  exactly  a  noble  sentiment;  it  was,  rather,  that  he  wanted  to  be  left  alone.  He  didn't  have  any  feelings  about  the  war,  but  he  had  been  a  prod-  igy  in  a  mild  sort  of  way,  and  he  was  tired  of  special  treatment.  Actually,  as  it  turned  out,  he  liked  the  Army.  No  one  had  ever  heard  of  him,  and  he  sat  around  the  PX  play-  ing  &quot;Chopsticks&quot;  on  thepiano,  which  ironic  gesture  amused  him.  The  war  itself  upset  him,  but  he  was  glad,  since  it  was  an  upset  outside  himself.  Be-  sides,  he  isn't  very  protective  about  his  hands,  as  some  musicians  are.  All  his  life,  he  fought  his  parents  and  teachers  forthe  right  to  play  baseball  and  other-  wise  endanger  his  priceless  limbs.  In  the  winter,  he  never  wears  gloves,  and  he  likes  to  go  fishing.  The  fish  he  likes  best  are  fighters-bass  and  blues.  He  says  he  was  more  comfortable  in  the  Army  thanhe  ever  had  been  before.  E  are  not  a  young  couple,  so  our  sense  of  personal  history  is  wide  and  separate.  My  husband  re-  members  his  first  piano-a  child's  piano.  I  have  never  seen  one.  My  fam-  ily  took  lessons  on  a  huge  Chickering  we  felt  like  gnats  in  front  of,  and  for-  got  all  we  had  learned  by  the  time  we  were  in  high  school.  I  didn't  play  Mozart  sonatas  when  I  was  twelve.  Instead,  I  stole  a  lipstick  from  a  drug-  store  in  Kennebunkport,  [REDACTED].  My  husband  was  thirty-five  whenwe  got  married,  and  I  was  thirty-one.  We  didn't  have  a  pool  of  mutual  friends.  The  friends  he  had  at  Juilliard  he  had  either  outgrown  or  known  so  well  so  long  that  they  seemed  exclusively  his.  His  pals  from  the  Army  live  in  places  like  Ketchum,  [REDACTED],  or  Blue  Moun-  tain  Lake,  New  York,  and  he  never  sees  them.  No,  we  came  with  separate  friends.  We  have  separate  love  affairs  to  think  about.  He  had  his  marriage.  I  saw  whales  at  Baja,  and  he  sawcom-  bat  in  [REDACTED].  That  accounts  for  a  lot  of  richness  but  quite  a  lot  of  sad-  ness,  too.  I  would  be  happy  not  to  trav-  el  on  out-of-the-way  spur  lines-al-  though  I  love  to  fly  over  islands-but  I  often  think  the  more  we  travel  to  in-  accessible  places  the  more  we  will  be  like  a  couple  who  fell  in  love  in  high  school  and  married  out  of  college.  Our  personal  histories  will  merge,  and  our  reference  point  will  be  each  other.  The  parts  of  my  life  that  were  solitary  will  blur.  He  will  think,  maybe  after  thirty  years,  that  it  was  to  me  he  wrote  from  [REDACTED],  and  I  will  think  that  I  com-  muted  home  in  my  old  Saab  from  Ruiiks  Point  to  him,  and  my  prim  apart-  ment  will  be  the  memory  of  waiting  at  a  bus  stop  before  my  husband  came  along  to  pick  me  up.  IV  September,  we  flew  to  [REDACTED]  on  a  yellow  jet,  and  in  a  glum  corner  of  the  airport  we  found  our  spur  line,  Everglades  Airways.  We  were  going  to  fly  to  French  Falls  The  gloomy  lobby  was  manned  by  an  overweight  giant  with  hair  crew-cut  into  a  putt-  ing  green,  and  a  dour,  monosyllabic  Indian  with  a  gold  tooth.  Waiting  for  " b"the  tiny  Cessnas  were  our  fellow-trav-  ellers:  a  Cuban  woman  and  her  child,  three  sleeping  Indians  with  straw  hats  and  dead  cigars,  a  dissipated  boy  in  rumpled  white  ducks,  and  us.  No  one  was  flying.  We  sat  down  and  waited  out  the  tail  end  of  a  tropical  storm.  We  ended  up  waiting  for  three  hours.  The  chairs  filled  up  with  Cu-  bans,  farmers,  and  fishermen.  Finally,  the  flights  were  called.  Eight  people  lined  up  to  go  to  Oopalachia.  Six  flew  off  to  Little  Trinidad.  The  fishermen  went  to  Connaught  Key.  They  all  had  to  wait  for  the  morose  Indian  to  load  the  luggage  and  for  the  pilots  to  finish  their  coffee.  The  pilots  on  spur  lines  are  like  motorcycle  racers.  Given  the  chance,  they'd  fly  in  any  weather,  but  commercial  responsibility  imposes  itself  on  them.  The  older  ones  were  mail  pilots,  the  middle-aged  ones  were  com-  mercial  pilots  who  got  bored,  and  the  younger  ones  learned  to  fly  in  Viet-  nam  and  didn't  want  to  stop  once  they  got  home.  Finally,  we  lined  up  for  French  Falls.  The  plane  held  eight,  but  there  were  only  six  of  us:  the  Cuban  wom- an  and  her  child,  my  husband  and  I,  and  a  couple  who  appeared  at  the  last  moment-a  hawk-faced  man  with  a  blond  pompadour,  carrying  a  fiddle  case,  and  his  wife,  whose  cheekbones  obliterated  her  eyes.  They  looked  like  birds  of  prey  in  a  moment  of  pause.  Our  pilot's  name  was  Ike  Fooley,  a  stocky  vet  with  a  mustache.  He  knew  everyone  on  the  flight  except  us,  but  my  husband  sat  co-pilot  with  him  and  learned  that  they  had  been  in  Viet-  nam  at  the  same  time.  When  we  got  to  French  Falls,  we  went  to  the  bar  of  the  local  lodging  house  and  had  dinner  with  him.  Ike  Fooley  had  been  con-  sidered  the  doltof  his  family,  he  told  us.  His  father  and  brothers  were  in  steel,  in  New  Orleans.  He  had  saved  enough  to  have  his  own  plane.  He  pulled  out  a  picture  of  it-a  red-and-  white  Piper  Cherokee  with  &quot;Fool's  Paradise&quot;  painted  on  the  wing  in  black.  He  also  showed  usa  stack  of  photo-  graphs  of  Hu\xc3\xa9-the  intense,  heartsick  photos  of  an  amateur.  He  said  that  he  had  still  not  gotten  over  what  had  happened  to  him  in  the  war,  that  he  was  slow  and  that  it  took  him  a  long  His  mus-  time  to  sort  things  out.  tache  curved  down  and  gave  his  cheery  face  an  edge  of  mournfulness.  After  dinner,  he  toldus  who  our  fellow-  travellers  were.  The  Cuban  woman  was  the  housekeeper  at  a  mansion  out-  side  French  Falls  that  was  owned  by  the  former  ambassador  to  [REDACTED].  The  hawklike  couple  had  just  come  back  from  a  fiddle  competition  in  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED].  They  few  around  quite  a  bit,  Ike  said-to  [REDACTED]  and  Muscle  Shoals  to  do  studio  work-but  didn't  like  it  much.  The  man  had  explained  country  fiddling  to  him  as  follows:  &quot;Something  pretty  you  put  on  the  edge  of  something  plain.&quot;  Aswe  had  our  dinner,  the  weather  kicked  up,  and  finally  another  storm  broke.  Ike  Fooley  called  [REDACTED]  to  say  that  he  was  laying  over.  He  and  my  husband  settled  down  to  drink.  Ike  asked  why  we  had  come  to  French  Falls,  and  we  told  him  the  truth.  The  truth  was  it  was  just  a  place  to  fly  to.  Mv  husband  subscribed  to  Aviator  magazine  to  keep  informed  on  remote  landing  strips  and  oddball  spur  lines.  French  Falls  sounded  good  to  him,  " b" since  he  was  just  about  to  record  the  &quot;French&quot;  Suites.  Ike  found  this  alto-  gether  reasonable.  But  he  said  there  wasn't  any  reason  to  stay  in  French  Falls  unless  you  lived  there,  so  he  of-  fered  to  take  us  to  Key  West  the  next  day.  He  had  the  weekend  off,  he  said,  and  if  we  likedto  fish  and  snorkel,  he  knew  a  good  place  to  do  both.  In  the  morning,  we  would  fly  back  to  [REDACTED]  with  him,  drive  to  a  private  airport,  pick  up  Fool's  Paradise,  and  fly  around  the  Keys.  They  stayed  downstairs  to  drink  out  the  storm,  and  I  went  to  our  room  to  take  abath  and  go  to  sleep.  The  room  smelled  of  seawater  and  rain.  As  I  lay  in  bed,  I  thought  of  all  the  places  we  had  flown  toas  something  pretty  you  put  on  the  edge  of  some-  thing  plain.  The  love  my  husband  and  I  bore  for  each  other  seemed  very  plain  to  me-there  was  still  no  communal  reference  point  for  it.  It  was  only  the  two  of  us.  NE  day  after  we  were  married,  my  husband  opened  up  a  bat-  tered  wicker  case  and  put  on  the  bed  an  ammunition  pouch,  a  dog-eared  copy  of  the  &quot;Italian&quot;  Concerto,  a  leather-bound  diary,  and  his  Army  belt-his  relics  of  the  war,  he  said.  When  he  pulled  shift,  he  had  studied  the  &quot;Italian&quot;  Concerto  and  sung  it  in  his  head.  During  the  sixties,  you  often  saw  in  slick,  liberal  magazines  photos  of  the  possessions  of  dead  or  captured  enemies,  photos  that  were  meant  to  show  you  that  the  enemy  was  a  human  being,  too.  That  clutter  on  the  bed  looked  like  one  of  those  photos,  but  those  things  belonged  to  my  husband.  I  remember  thinking,  What  if  he  hadn't  come  back  to  me?  Suppose  he  had  come  back  to  me  all  shot  up?  Sup-  pose  he  had  never  come  back  at  all?  I  never  touched  a  thing  on  the  bed-I  remembered  that  I  hadn't  known  him  when  he  came  back,  that  we  had  met  by  chance  in  a  time  when  people  didn't  think  much  about  the  war,  and  if  you  said  you  had  fought  in  it  they  looked  at  you  without  much  interest,  register-  ing  a  fact  they  had  no  connection  to,  or  for.  In  point  of  fact,  my  husband  takes  his  ammunition  pouch,  his  Army  belt,   the  diary,  and  that  score  for  the  &quot;Ital-  ian&quot;  Concerto  with  him  whenever  he  flies.  I  saw  them  first  one  evening  while  I  was  unpacking  in  Shawano,  [REDACTED],  to  which  we  had  flown  on  Wolverine,  and  I've  seen  them  ever  since.  I've  never  mentioned  it,  and  neither  has  he,  but  itis  a  fact  between  us,  since  I  always  unpack  for  him.  He  carries  around  those  artifacts,  and  I  dream  about  wrecked  jets.  Se-  cretly,  I  read  accounts  of  crashes  in  the  paper,  which  indicates  to  me  that  I  never  get  used  to  flying,  that  I  am  always  caught  between  thrill  and  fear.  He  knows  I  read  the  paper  for  those  ghoulish  accounts,  and  I  know  about  his  kit.  But  it  all  works  out.  When  he  isn't  rehearsing,  and  I  get  time  off  from  the  Riiks  Point  ma-  rine-biology  station,  we  fly  to  some-  place  central  and  then  to  someplace  remote  so  that  I  can  ask,  some  wide,  scopeless  afternoon  on  a  bleak  win-  ter's  day,  &quot;Remember  when  we  flew  around  Key  West  with  Ike  Fooley?&quot;  And  my  husband  can  nod  yes,  with  exclusive  understanding.  "