 b"AS  someone  once  said,  &quot;Let  there  be  light!&quot;  We  think  electricity  is  still  a  pretty  good  bargain.  Of  course,  it  could  be  even  more  of  a  bargain  if  the  so-called  environmentalists  didn't  care  more  for  grebes  than  for  a  decent,  comfortable  way  of  life  for  you  and  your  family.  Here  at  Con  Ed  we're  working  our  figurative  heinies  off  to  provide  our  friends  with  the  kind  of  service  they're  accustomed  to,  With  the  help  of  some  new  personnel-screen-  ing  techniques,  for  example,  we've  been  able  to  weed  out  of  our  meter-  reading  corps  those  meter  readers  whose  skills  were  limited  to  Roman  numerals.  (We  got  rid  of  a  few  Sierra  Club  types  as  well.)  We've  also  in-  stalled  a  new,  battery-operated  data-  processing  system  to  keep  track  of  whose  turn  itis  to  go  out  for  coffee.  And,  last  but  not  least,  we've  painted  new  insignia  on  our  trucks.  Now,  whenever  you  see  the  crossed  golden  wires,  you'll  know  we're  on  the  job!  And  that  job  isn't  an  easy  one!  The  international  oil  pinch  has  made  it  necessary  to  seek  out  alternate  fuel  sources,  and  at  this  writing  the  con-  version  of  our  [REDACTED]  plant  from  oil  to  peat  is  nearly  finished.  (Peat  is  avail-  able  in  great  abundance,  and  harvest-  ing  it  provides  employment  for  thou-  sands  of  ne'er-do-wells.)  Regrettably,  the  efficiency  of  such  converted  plants  is  normally  diminished  by  some  73  per  cent,  but  we  can  already  guarantee  our  customers  in  the  [REDACTED]  area  at  least  three  hours  of  service  on  a  bimonthly  basis.  As  residents  of  Westchester  County  may  have  guessed,  Tiny  Hubert,  our  1,500-megawatt  generator,  has  been  out  of  service  for  the  last  eleven  months,  because  he  misses  his  mother.  We  have  painted  his  room  light  blue,  however,  and  expect  to  restore  power  to  Westchester  in  the  near  future.  You  will  notice  in  the  bill  that  ac-  companies  this  newsletter  that  our  rates  have,  lamentably,  been  adjusted  again.  While  it  is  true  that  there  havebeen  three  such  adjustments  in  the  last  four  months,  the  actual  increase  in  the  amount  paid  by  a  typical  consumer  is  less  than  it  costs  to  operate  your  Labra-  dor  retriever  for  one  year.  Yes,  elec-  tricity  is  indeed  a  bargain  NEw  PENALTIES  FOR  NoNPAYMENT  From  time  to  time,  one  of  our  cus-  tomers  fails  to  pay  his  bill  when  it  is  due.  In  accordance  with  several  re-  cent  Supreme  Court  decisions  regard-  ing  cruel  and  unusual  punishment,  we  have  changed  the  steps  we  take  under  these  regrettable  circumstances.  The  new  procedures  are  as  follows:  (1)  We  extend  a  &quot;grace&quot;  period  of  30  days,  during  which  time  we  main-  tain  full  electric  services  but  destroy  your  credit  rating.  (2)  After  30  days,  and  for  a  period  not  exceeding  two  weeks,  we  deploy  the  Marching  Edisonettes.  They  have  their  ways.  (3)  After  45  days,  a  Customer  Service  Representative  will  call  on  you  and  rip  the  door  off  your  refrigerator.  (4)  After  60  days:  Blackout  and  deportation.  WaurrsE  EacH  Dorrar  Gors  Some  of  our  friends  have  asked  what  we  do  with  the  money  we  col-  lect.  This  &quot;pie&quot;  shows  where  each     dollar  goes.  It  also  shows  why  our  rates  are  so  low  compared  to  those  in  Union  City.  LimnEmax  or  tus  MonxntH  The  Lineman  of  the  Month  for  April  is  Hector  Indignidad,  of  our  Spuyten  Duyvil  Station.  One  night  last  December,  while  standing  at  his  post  at  the  northern  end  of  [REDACTED],  Hector  was  quick  to  notice  that  all  the  lights  had  gone  out  in  the  [REDACTED].  Looking  down  into  a  nearby  manhole,  he  saw  that  our  newly  installed  Jumbo  Cable  had  been  severed  andwas  spit,  ting  sparks.  In  a  trice,  Hector  tackled  both  of  the  thrashing  ends  and  rode  them  into  submission.  Then,  still  work-  ing  in  the  dark,  he  attempted  to  replace  the  cable  in  the  proper  conduit,  thus  briefly  illuminating  every  water  faucet  and  bathtub  on  Fordham  Road.  The  Lineman  of  the  Month  Award,  along  with  a  Special  Citation  for  Good  Con-ductivity,  was  accepted  by  Mrs.  Indig-  nidad  and  her  four  proud  children.  The  Marching  Edisonettes  sang  &quot;You  Are  My  Sunshine.&quot;  Prortrs  Over  the  past  fifteen  years  our  profits  have  increased  by  a  modest  75  million  dollars.  The  diagram  below  depicts,  from  left  to  right,  three  light  bulbs  of  steadily  increasing  size.  Some  Engrcoy-Savinc  REmimoErrs  N  Don't  use  your  electric  blanket  to  maintain  an  even  temperature  in  your  bathwater.  In-  addition  to  boosting  your  electric  bill  consider-  ably,  this  practice  may  result  in  a  serious  rash.  BN  Your  microwave  oven  will  serve  nicely  as  an  incubator  and  birth-  control  device  for  gerbils.  H  You  can  save  energy  bynot  using  your  electric-train  set  for  passing  food  at  the  table.  THimrtierHn  AnNnIvERrRsarRy  On  February  24th,  at  a  ceremony  honoring  the  thirtieth  consecutive  year  that  our  excavation  at  the  corner  of  60th  Street  and  2nd  Avenue  has  been  open,  Mayor  Beame  presented  George  L.  Humus,  chief  of  our  Trench  and  Pothole  Division,  with  a  pair  of  electric  socks.  The  Marching  Edisonettes  then  sang  &quot;After  the  Lights  Go  Down  Low.&quot;  The  occasion  was  only  slightly  marred  by  the  brief  disappearance  of  Rabbi  Lance  Ytsok,  who  had  been  scheduled  to  close  the  proceedings  with  a  prayer.  He  resurfaced  unhurt  from  a  manhole  at  [REDACTED]  and  112th  Street.  Dm  You  Know  THar  ...  MN  You  can  avoid  picking  up  static  electricity  in  bed  by  dusting  your  sheets  with  cat  dander.  RM  In  nineteenth-century  [REDACTED],  electricity  was  thought  to  be  an  aphrodisiac  and  was  sold  clandes-  tinely  in  small  delft  jars.  N  Our  Hunts  Point  smokestack  is  so  big  that  to  ream  it  out  would  re-  quire  a  pipe  cleaner  weighing  724  pounds. "