 b"EYDKUHNEN  was  the  German  bor-der  station  on  the  main  line  from  [REDACTED]  to  Saint  Petersburg.  Eyd-  kuhnen's  527573736961n  counterpart  was  Verj-  bolovo.  Here  the  narrow  tracks  of  Western  railroads  stopped  and  the  wide  gauge  of  the  North-West  Rail-  road  of  [REDACTED]  began.  Between  the  two  lay  a  traveller's  inferno:  double  passport  checks,  the  German  customs  and  the  527573736961n  customs,  screeching  children  who  had  lost  their  parents,  throngs  of  varied  nationalities  and  so-  cial  classes,  and,  above  all,  majestic  mounds  of  luggage  being  shifted  from  one  train  to  another.  It  was  through  this  inferno  that,  on  an  early  summer  morning  of  1908,  and  in  the  direction  of  [REDACTED],  passed  the  three  Nabokov  children,  in  com-  pany  of  harried  Aunt  Caroline,  Friu-  lein  Abzicher,  and  a  few  other  mel-  ancholy  members  of  the  household  staff-a  Mademoiselle;  Nyanya  Liuba,  my  527573736961n  nurse;  and  perhaps  a  manservant.  Tired  and  grimy,  but  full  of  cheer,  we  children  left  the  narrow  compartments  and  corridors  of  the  soot-  covered  German  wagon-lit  and  burst  into  yelps  of  enthusiasm  at  the  sight  of  the  broader  and  more  commodious  first-  and  second-class  carriage-the  vagon  mikst  of  the  Imperial527573736961n  railroads.  While  Aunt  Caroline  and  the  Kin-  derpersonal  were  checking  and  count-  ing  the  luggage  in  the  racks,  my  sister  Onya  and  brother  Mitya  went  about  inspecting  corridors,  compartments,  W.C.s,  the  samovar  in  the  attendant's  cubicle,  the  copper  lanterns  with  short,  squat  candlesticks,  and  the  special  way  to  open  and  close  doors  and  windows.  I  sat  lost  in  a  kind  of  reverie,  in  a  seat  by  the  window,  waiting  for  the  train  to  start.  I  was  five  and  a  half  years  old.  The  object  of  my  reverie  was  neither  the  change  of  track  nor  the  im-  provement  in  comfort  nor  even  the  frightening  transition  from  the  world  of  [REDACTED]  to  the  unknown  world  of  [REDACTED].  I  had  left  [REDACTED]  in  1905,  at  the  age  of  two,  in  the  wake  of  my  mother's  divorce  from  my  father,  and  was  re-  turning  to  [REDACTED]  for  the  first  time.  To  me,  the  great  discovery  of  the  day,  which  left  me  in  amazement,  was  simply  a  new  word:  &quot;Garam.&quot;  Not  &quot;luggage,&quot;  mind  you,  but  &quot;  baras&quot;  527573736961n  term  (as  I  learned  in  due  time)  of  French  origin,  covering  a  far  greater  range  of  possibilities  than  its  limited  English  equivalent.  It  was  at  Verjbolovo  that,  for  me,  [REDACTED]  began,  and  with  it  Garaxt-from  that  day  on,  the  most  permanent  and  faithful     a  companion  of  my  peripatetic  life.  When  I  recall  my  childhood,  sentences  like  &quot;Faites  vos  bagages?  Qui  a  oubli\xc3\xa9  ses  bagages?&quot;  and  &quot;On  a  perdu  les  bagages!&quot;  reverberate  in  my  mind,  and  I  see  Gara  in  entrance  halls,  in  train  racks,  behind  landaus,  inside  dor-  meuses  and  Benz  motorcars,  or  form-  ing  a  tarpaulin-covered  mountain  in  the  huge  cart  that  followed  us  across  the  steppes  of  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  between  the  years  1908  and  1917.  Pre\xc3\xa9minent  among  the  various  spe-  cies  of  Gara;  in  use  at  that  time  was  the  porte-plaid  in  527573736961n).  I  rather  think  it  was  a  product  of  Victorian  [REDACTED].  The  native  Rus-  sian  lower-  and  middle-class  Gayx  (a  twice-transplanted  Turkic  word,  mean-  ing  &quot;bundle,&quot;  which  came  from  4974616c79  by  way  of  Odessa)  was  similar  in  form  and  function.  The  noptie  consisted  of  personal  belongings  wrapped  ina  Stewart  or  Mackintosh  tartan,  or  in  a  handsomely  bordered  brown  cloth,  held  together  by  leather  straps  and  with  a  comfortable  grip.  It  looked  like  a  huge,  fat  envelope.  The  Gay  was  the  same  kind  of  thing  minus  the  Scotch  plaid  or  bordered  cloth  (anything,  from  a  blanket  to  an  old  rag,  would  do)  and  held  together-often  precariously-by  whatever  came  to  hand  or  was  avail-  able  in  the  household  at  the  time  of  the  packing.  However,  the  noptrmney  moved  determinedly  to  the  position  of  the  dominant  piece  of  luggage  in  the  feudal  society  of  the  period,  while  the  Gay  simply  continued  to  proliferate  among  the  lower  and  middle  classes  of  the  527573736961n  population.  The  was  found  not  only  in  [REDACTED]  but  also  among  the  upper  classes  all  over  Eu-  rope.  The  Gayx  was  very  scarce  in  the  West,  abundant  in  [REDACTED],  and  probably  endemic  in  the  Middle  East  and  most  of  Asia.  Both  species  have  become  rare  now-  adays.  During  the  Second  World  War,  a  hybrid  of  the  moptnuieny  was  to  be  seen  at  military  airports.  It  was  usually  carried  by  squat-bottomed  556e6974656420537461746573n  colonels,  and  instead  of  being  a  neat  envelope  it  looked  like  a  sausage.  Like  its  carrier,  it  was  khaki  in  color  and  thus,  together  with  him,  melted  into  one  unicolored  Christian  object,  a  cross,  a  vertical-and-horizontal  sau-  sage.  Soon  after  the  end  of  the  war,  this  degenerate  was  replaced  by  the  standardized  and  Sanforized  Scotch-plaid  luggage  of  Madison  Ave-  nue.  In  the  Soviet  Union,  the  yemogan  (from  a  Tartar  word,  meaning  &quot;travel  case&quot;),  which  in  my  childhood  was  limited  to  the  upper  and  middle  classes,  and  ranged  in  composition  from  calf  hide  to  cotton  fibre,  has,  I  am  told,  completely  squeezed  the  Gays  out  of  existence.  Next  in  importance  to  the  and  the  Gayx  of  my  youth  were  the  white  and  brown  species  of  wicker  bas-  ket.  These  came  (and  still  do)  in  all  shapes  and  sizes.  There  was  the  small  one-longish  and  flat,  heldtogether  by " b"a  stick  (usually  lost),  and  used  for  car-  rying  the  traveller's  picnic  (cold  chick-  en,  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  battered  fruit).  Then  there  was  the  middle-  sized  one-often  wrapped  or  sewed  up  in  cloth.  Those  who  couldn't  afford  a  trunk  carried  in  one  or  two  such  bas-  kets  all  their  belongings  when  they  went  from  one  household  to  another.  Finally,  there  was  the  huge,  deep  one,  with  an  iron  rod  and  a  large  black  lock.  It  was  mostly  used  for  linens  and  chil-  dren's  shoes  and,  on  rare  occasions,  cut-up  corpses.  The  most  capacious  of  our  house-  hold's  heavy  luggage  was  the  xo\xc2\xaep  (from  the  German  &quot;Koffer&quot;).  Every  member  of  the  family  had  his  own  ro\xc2\xaep.  It  sounded  like  an  anagram  of  Korff,  my  Grandmother  Nabokov's  maiden  name.  The  thing  itself  had  about  it  an  air  of  Baltic-bourgeois  dig-  nity.  It  existed  both  in  metal  and  in  fibre  hybrids  and  was,  I  believe,  in  use  all  over  the  world.  But  at  the  time  of  my  childhood  it  had  not  yet  developed  the  faculty  of  standing  upright.  It  lay  flat  on  the  floor.  &quot;Upright  or  steamer  trunks,  were  virtually  un-  known  in  [REDACTED]  at  the  time.  There  were  only  rumors  of  their  existence.  Persons  who,  like  our  Friulein  Ab-  zicher,  had  crossed  the  Atlantic  Ocean  and  had  visited  or  lived  in  the  fairy-tale  land  of  millionaires  were  said  to  have  actually  seen  them.  In  1934,  at  the  end  of  my  first  visit  to  [REDACTED],  I  bought  myself  just  such  a  highly  advanced  travelling  con-  venience  at  a  cut-rate  luggage  store  on  Sixth  [REDACTED].  It  was  shiny  and  glossy,  with  hangers  and  drawers  and  a  huge  metal  safety  lock.  I  felt  very  grand  disembarkingwith  it  from  the  boat  train  in  [REDACTED],  and  soon  word  spread  about  that  N.N.  had  returned  from  [REDACTED]  &quot;couvert  de  dollars.&quot;  Alas,  that  upright  xo\xc2\xaep  did  not  last  long.  It  fell  apart  after  its  second  Atlantic  cross-  ing  and  ended  its  short  life  on  a  junk  heap.  Hatboxes  were  of  varied  sizes,  shapes,  and  types.  The  more  standard  ones  were  ladies'  hatboxes.  They  were  as  they  are  now-cylindrical  sections  made  of  thin  leather,  oilceloth,  or  sim-  ply  cardboard.  On  the  top  of  the  card-  board  variety  one  could  read  names  like  &quot;Lucy&quot;  or  &quot;Georgette&quot;  or  &quot;Mme.  Iris,&quot;  which  seemed  to  promise  more  than  merely  a  lady's  hat.  All  ladies'  hatboxes,  regardless  of  construction,  were  delicate  and  fragile,  and  hence  objects  of  great  concern  at  the  time  of  departure,  when  the  Garase  was  being  collected  in  the  antecham-  bers.  (&quot;Voyons!  Vous  voyexz  bien  que  cest  le  carton  &amp;  chapeau  de  votre mere!  Pourquo  i  fo  urrez  -v  ous  dess  us  vof  porte  -plaid?  Faite  s  donc  attent  ion  pour  un  e  fois!&quot;  )  Gentlemen's  hatboxes  were  more  su  bstantial,  but  they  also  varied  in  size  and  shape.  My  stepfa  t  her's  hatboxes  consi  st  ed  of:  (1)  t  he  (top  hat)  and  bowler  hatbox,  (2)  the  mili-  tary-style  cap  hatbox,  and  (3)  the  large,  square  fur  hatbox.  All  of  them  were  truly  Platonic  objects  in  that  their  outward  form  was  an  emanation  of  their  in  ner  on  e.  The  third  and  last  type  of  hatb  ox  that  accomp  a  nied  our  family's  peregri-  nation  s  had  little  to  do  with  headgear.  In  fact,  they  weren't  really  hatboxes  at  all.  They  were  made  of  light  woode  n  veneer,  and  were  usually  yellowish  in  color,  and  bore  on  the  cover  an  in-  scription  in  black,  such  as  &quot;Nika,&quot;  or  &quot;Lida,&quot;  or  &quot;T.C.&quot;  (Tante  Caroline).  These  contained  enamelled  night  pots.  AND,  finally,  the  queen  of  Gara,  the  rarest,  the  most  inbred,  and  yet  most  beautiful  species:  the  lady's  n\xc3\xa9cessaire.  I  knew  only  one  such  object-my  mother's.  All  others,  in  comparison,  would  seem  rustic  and  bleak.  But  that  one  was  custom-made  by  a  mysterious  foreign  magician.  It  was  perfection  of  its  kind.  It  was  made  of  dark-red  saffian  leather  and  had  two  small,  gilded  locks  on  top  that  opened  smoothly  and  noise-  lessly  at  the  turn  of  a  tiny  key.  From  its  creases  and  cracks  came  an  aroma  connecting  it  with  its  owner:  a  blend  of  well-tanned  leather  and  of  Tr\xc3\xa9fle  Incarnat-a  scent  so  unwisely  discard-  edby  its  maker,  La  Maison  Piver.  It  opened  like  a  ripe  fruit,  like  the  loins  of  a  goddess,  the  two  halves  of  its  cover  falling  gently  apart  and  offering  its  enchantments  to  the  gaze  of  the  " b"onlooker.  The  four  inner  walls  of  the  receptacle  were  of  quilted  doeskin.  Three  of  those  walls  were  lined  with  crystal  and  gold:  small  and  large  cream  pots,  cologne  and  scent  bottles,  toothbrush  tubes,  a  soapbox  (gold-cov-  ered,  with  engraved  crowns  and  cres-  cents).  The  fourth  wall  was  all  ivory,  silver,  and  bristle.  At  the  bottom  of  the  case,  in  small  boxes  of  various  shapes  and  sizes,  lay  the  delight  and  the  seduction:  Zes  bijoux.  Rarely,  very  rarely,  only  after  insistent  begging,  would  my  mother  consent  to  show  them  to  me.  I  would  crouch  near  a  table  that  was  covered  by  a  dark  velvet  cloth  and  look  intently  at  the  beautiful  treasure.  Then,  after  the  viewing  was  over,  the  treasure  would  be  put  back  into  its  proper  receptacles.  The  reliquary  would  be  locked  up  and  deposited  in  the  vaults  of  the  Azovsko-  Donskoi  Bank.  Mother's  n\xc3\xa9cessaire  was  always  car-  ried  by  her  or  by  my  stepfather.  It  was  never  entrusted  to  the  servants  or  to  children.  It  followed  the  progress  of  our  lives  faithfully-rather  like  a  kind  and  generous  friend,  a  protector  and  helper  in  times  of  stress  and  want.  Often  it  had  to  be  hidden,  and  once  it  was  buried  in  a  garden,  but  fortunately  retrieved  before  hostile  people  had  dis-  covered  it.  It  survived  the  turmoil  of  the  527573736961n  Revolution,  the  death  of  my  stepfather,  and  the  murder  of  my  grandmother.  It  was  with  us  in  our  flight  from  [REDACTED]  and  stayed  with  my  mother  through  the  long  years  of  exile.  As  years  went  by,  it  got  scratched  and  battered,  but  still  kept  its  poise  and  dignity.  Alas,  it  grew  constantly  lighter  and  less  miraculous  inside.  Some  of  the  crystal  objects  got  lost  or  broken.  The  little  jewel  boxes  were  fewer  in  num-  ber,  and  those  that  were  left  contained  much  less  attractive  ornaments.  Emer-  alds  and  rubies,  diamonds  and  pearls  had  been  gradually  exchanged  for  meat  and  rent,  bread  and  clothes,  till  finally  the  old  friend,  the  helper  and  pro-  tector,  the  n\xc3\xa9cessaire  of  my  childhood,  lost  its  distinction,  its  meaning,  and  its  purpose.  It  became  tired  and  worn.  It  must  have  dissolved  somewhere  between  Lubeza  and  [REDACTED],  for  when  I  last  saw  my  mother,  in  1936,  herself  stricken  byan  incurable  illness,  the  faithful  companion  was  not  there  any-  more.  It  was  gone.  Idid  not  ask  any  questions  about  its  departure,  respecting  what  was  obviously  the  last  wish  of  a  noble  friend. "