 b"ONE  morning  half  a  century  ago,  give  or  take  a  decade,  the  Beelzebub  occupying  the  desk  behind  mine  in  grade  school  surrepti-  tiously  affixed  a  steel  pen  point  to  the  toe  cap  of  one  of  his  bluchers,  thrust  his  leg  under  my  chair,  and  kicked  up-  ward.  Given  more  room,  I  might  have  executed  a  two-and-a-half  forward  somersault  like  that  wizard  of  the  tra-  peze  Alfredo  Codona;  instead,  biting  back  my  tears,  I  flung  myself  on  my  persecutor  (whose  name,  oddly  enough,  was  Frankie  Torquemada)  and  tried  to  eviscerate  him  with  a  slate  pencil.  Neither  of  us,  as  it  turned  out,  emerged  the  victor.  He  was  sentenced  to  clap  erasers  for  a  week,  I  to  transcribe  fifty  times  on  the  blackboard  the  rubric  &quot;Lives  of  great  men  all  remind  us/  We  can  make  our  lives  sublime,/  And,  departing,  leave  behind  us/  Footprints  on  the  sands  of  time.&quot;  How  the  world  could  possibly  be  en-  riched  by  a  legacy  of  sandy  footprints  I  never  understood,  any  more  than  I  did  the  omnipresence  of  Rosa  Bonheur's  &quot;The  Horse  Fair&quot;  in  every  classroom,  but,  like  the  pen  point,  Longfellow's  precept  must  have  sunk  home,  for  thenceforward  the  lives  of  the  eminent  became  a  lodestar  to  me,  a  lamp  unto  my  feet.  Ultimately,  the  quest  for  sublimity  uncovered  some  strange  examples  none  of  them  stranger,  however,  than  two  panegyrics  I  recently  ran  across:  a  biography  of  Kipling  and  a  prose  poem  in  the  [REDACTED]  Reporter.  We've  all  seen  flapdoodle  in  our  day,  but,  man,  these  are  vintage.  I  haven't  experienced  such  goose-  flesh  since  W.  W.  Jacobs'  &quot;The  Monkey's  Paw.&quot;  I  read  Charles  Carrington's  &quot;The  Life  of  Rudyard  Kipling&quot;  last  winter  in  an  appropriate  Bur-  mese  setting-the  Strand  Hotel  in  Rangoon,  where  &quot;Mandalay,&quot;  the  ballad  beloved  of  every  bari-  tone  in  vaudeville,  is  said  to  have  been  composed.  Now,  nobody  ob-  jects  to  idolatry  in  moderation;  a  pinch  or  two  of  hero  worship  can  often  season  a  fat  book.  Car-  rington's  veneration  for  Kipling,  though,  was  so  glutinous  that  it  threatened  at  times  to  clog  his  typewriter.  Some  inkling  of  the  schmalz  quotient  can  be  gleaned  from  the  following  passage:  Rudyard  had  a  gift  for  penetrat-  ing  the  undertones  of  conversation.  His  own  French  was  fluent  though  inaccurate,  and  powerfully  helped  out  by  gestures  ;  his  skill  at  extract-  ingthe  sense  of  what  was  said  to  him  seemed  uncanny.  Not  only  could  he  fall  into  casual  talk  with  some  patois-speaking  peasant  in  [REDACTED]  and  come  away  after  five  minutes  equipped  with  minute  tech-  nical  knowledge  of  his  farming  methods  and  family  history;  there  were  occasions  when  he  achieved  the  same  result  in  537061696e  and  even  [REDACTED]  by  signs  and  ges-  tures,  without  pretense  of  knowing  the  language  at  all.  Was  Carrington  an  eyewitness  to  these  remarkable  demonstrations?  Were  they  confided  to  him  by  the  aforesaid  peasants  in  their  quaint  patois?  It  seems  much  more  likely  that  the  source  was  the  great  romancer  himself,  whose  ego,  I  would  have  said,  was  unmatched  up  to  the  time  Norman  Mailer  came  along.  I  would  have  said  so,  that  is,  until  I  read  the  dithyramb  in  the  Holly-  wood  Reporter  about  Sidney  Sheldon.  Sheldon,  a  television  writer  and  producer,  had  just  concluded  a  whop-  ping  one-million-eight-hundred-thou-  sand-dollar  pact  with  Screen  Gems  to  supply  them  with  five  pilot  films,  and  he  was  snapping  his  suspenders  in  the  presence  of  Sue  Cameron,  a  reporter.  By  his  own  admission,  Sheldon  is  a  sequoia  in  the  literary  field:  &quot;When  I'm  working  on  a  series  I  can  write  three  scripts  a  week.  I  write  one  Saturday,  one  Sunday,  and  one  during  the  week.  I  have  two  secretaries  and  they  get  all  the  typing  done.  I  feel  guilty  some-  times  when  I  think  about  other  writer  friends  of  mine  who  really  have  to  sweat  to  get  scripts  out.  Luckily  with  me  it  just  flows.  I  love  to  write,&quot;  continues  Shel-  don,  who  has  finished  the  five  pilot  scripts,  a  suspense  play  he  will  do  in  [REDACTED],  and  960  pages  of  his  new  novel.  &quot;I  dictate  30  to  50  pages  a  day  on  it.  I  love  to  write  so  much  that  I  have  to  stop  myself  from  writing  seven  days  a  week.&quot;  Sheldon's  previous  novel,  &quot;The  Naked  Face,&quot;  will  soon  be  made  into  a  motion  picture  and,  naturally,  he  has  already  fin-  ished  the  screenplay.  As  if  the  foregoing  were  not  con-  ducive  to  heartburn,  Miss  Cameron  thereupon  launched  into  an  emotional  little  eulogy.  &quot;Sidney  Sheldon  is  a  rare  man,&quot;  she  wrote.  &quot;He  loves  his  work,  his  family,  and  his  whole  life.  He  is  a  gentle,  sensitive  man,  who  follows  through  on  everything.  .  ..  'I  see  my-  self  as  a  storyteller,&quot;  &quot;  he  told  her,  add-  ing,  in  an  uprush  of  genealogy,  &quot;  'It  all  started  with  the  cavemen  sitting  around  campfires  telling  stories.  Those  are  my  ancestors.&quot;  &quot;  By  a  fluke  that  almost  wrenched  the  long  arm  of  coincidence  from  its  sock-  et,  I  stumbled  a  while  ago  on  evidence  of  someone  whose  feats  bore  a  close  kin-  ship  to  those  of  Kipling  and  Sheldon.  Rummaging  through  a  carton  of  books  in  a  downtown  auction  room,  I  un-  earthed  a  ring  binder  wherein  this  per-  son-an  author  of  mixed  Irish  and  French  ancestry  named  Patrick  Foley  " b"de  Grandeur-had  kept  a  fragmentary  journal.  At  a  modest  outlay  of  a  dollar  seventy-five,  I  acquired  the  diary  and  an  annotated  copy  of  Stekel's  &quot;Frigidi-  ty  in  Woman  in  Relation  to  Her  Love  Life,&quot;  from  the  former  of  which  I  re-  produce  the  extracts  below.  Extracts  from  the  latter  are  still  thawing  on  my  windowsill.  NovemBEr  17  &quot;AWOKE  this  a.m.  feeling  rather  drained;  had  stayed  up  past  mid-  night  dictating  final  four  hundred  pages  of  huge  Dreiserian  novel  I  began  yesterday  about  publishing  tycoon,  one  Al  Coldstream,  who  founds  career  on  aquatic  sports  magazine  named  Crew.  Managed  to  work  in  several  effective  scenes,  esp.  Joycean  interior  mono-  logue  where  Coldstream  reviews  im-  broglio  with  couple  of  oars  picked  up  at  Yale-Harvard  regatta.  (Note  to  my-  self:  Change  closing  chapter-present  d\xc3\xa9nouement,  Coldstream  fricasseed  by  spontaneous  combustion  of  cheesecake  photos,too  indecisive.  Why  not  death  struggle  atop  Niagara  Falls  between  Coldstream  and  rival  publisher  of  Ou  or  Vive,  a  la  Holmes  and  Prof.  Mori-  arty?  Both  could  then  be  swept  away,  leaving  no  loose  ends.)  &quot;Spooky  phone  call  this  afternoon  from  my  agent,  Winnie  Kochleffel.  She  apparently  sensed  I  was  finishing  blockbuster,  though  I  hadn't  breathed  a  word  to  anyone,  and,  acting  on  hunch,  she  was  offering  the  paperback  rights  to  Signet  for  four  hundred  thou-  sand.  Some  kind  of  ESP,  doubtless;  I  remember  reading  that  Tolstoy  and  V.  Hugo  had  similar  power  of  thought  transference.  I  don't  put  myself  in  their  class,  to  be  sure;  still,  neither  of  them  ever  sold  paperback  rights  for  four  hundred  big  ones.  &quot;Started  to  write  a  novella  or  two  after  dinner,  but  frittered  away  the  evening  at  the  piano,  unaware  that  my  tape  recorder  was  switched  on.  On  playing  it  back,  found  I  haduncon-  sciously  composed  a  whole  jazz  suite,  a  FerdeGrof\xc3\xa9  type  of  thing.  Noth-  ing  spectacular,  yet  the  untutored  ear  might  well  mistake  it  for  middle-pe-  riod  Gershwin.  Funny  how  a  person  gifted  in  one  medium  can  so  easily  dis-  tinguish  himself  in  another.  I  felt  quite  pleased  with  myself.&quot;  NovEmBEr  29  KNOCKED  out  a  couple  of  who-  dunits  before  breakfast  to  limber  up  forthe  day's  work.  I  have  to  chuckle  when  I  read  about  Simenon's  astonishing  ability  to  belt  out  a  thriller  in  eleven  days.  I  could  do  one  in  as  many  hours  if  I  cared  to  write  bilge, but  fortunately  I  have  some  standards.  What  with  mail  and  phone  calls,  I  taped  only  two  hundred  and  fifty  pages  of  another  work  with  overtones  of  nostalgia,  'A  Child's  Life  of  Peter  Bogdanovich,&quot;  before  rushing  off  to  dentist's  appointment.  Why  do  I  pay  a  cluck  like  Gluckstern  an  arm  and  a  leg  when  I'm  perfectly  capable  of  filling  my  own  teeth?  (Reminder:  Look  through  Yellow  Pages  for  secondhand  den-  tal  equip't-drill,  spittoon,  etc.  Might  be  sizable  tax  deduction-discuss  w.  Tony  Fiduciari,  my  accountant.)  &quot;A  weird  subway  encounter  on  re-  turn  home.  Sat  next  to  fine  old  bearded  patriarch  who  was  reading  Yiddish  newspaper-he  unable  to  speak  Eng-  lish,  I  to  understand  his  patois.  Thanks  to  my  facility  for  mime,  however,  within  three  minutes  I  elicited  his  ori-  gins,  profession,  and  artistic  prejudices.  He  hailed  from  Vitebsk,  the  Russian  town  where  Marc  Chagall  was  born,  and  was  a  kosher  baker,  specializing  in  macaroons.  Seemed  to  be  well  versed  in  Chagall's  work,  though  unimpressed  by  same.  'So  what's  all  the  geschrei??  I  interpreted  him  as  saying.  'Anybody  can  scribble  a  junkman  fying  in  the  sky  or  a  donkey.  By  me  is  Norman  Rockwell  an  artist,  Max  Parrish.  They  paint  cherries,  grapes,  nectarines  you  could  pick  right  off  the  canvas.&quot;  Prior  to  debouching  at  [REDACTED]  Circle,  he  fished  out  a  macaroon  and  insisted  I  try  it.  It  had  a  distinct  odor  of  moth  flakes.  'Sure,  from  laying  in  my  pocket  all  winter,  he  conceded.  'I  put  some  crystals  in  there  to  keep  away  the  mice.&quot;  When  I  got  off  at  Herald  Square,  I  was  stunned  to  find  my  wallet  missing.  The  policeman  to  whom  I  reported  the  loss  cut  short  my  description.  'Yep,  that's  him,  all  right,&quot;  he  said.  'Cooney  Lemel,  the  smartest  dip  on  the  IND.  Kiss  your  wallet  goodbye,  Mac.  You've  been  ripped  off  by  an  expert.&quot;  &quot;Too  upset  afterward  to  resume  serious  work,  so  I  dashed  off  a  trayful  of  short  stories  and  pastiches,  donned  a  smock,  and  got  out  some  modelling  clay,  which  I  find  therapeutic  when-  ever  I'm  overwrought.  So  totally  im-  mersed  did  I  become  that  it  was  nearly  dawn  when  I  surfaced,  and  there  be-  fore  me  was  the  figure  of  a  reclining  female  nude  indistinguishable  from  the  best  of  Maillol  or  Despiau.  (Or  Rodin,  for  that  matter,  whom,  between  my-  selves,  it  evoked  rather  than  these  less-  er  fry.)  The  moment  I  realized,  how-  " b"ever,  that  the  reputa-  tions  of  all  three  might  be  diminished  if  my  ef-  fort  came  to  light,  I  decided  to  destroy  it.  It  was  the  only  decent  thing  to  do,  and  I  feel   confident  posterity  will  agree.&quot;  DrEcemsEr  5  BUSY  morn-  ing  -  phones  ringing,  the  clatter  of  typewriters  struggling  to  keep  up  with  my  output,  such  pandemo-  nium  that  allI  accom-  plished  was  a  ninety-  minute  TV  special,  'The  Romance  of  Bauxite,&quot;  and  the  script  of  a  porno  flick  to  be  filmed  in  the  Ajanta  Caves.  Every  ten  min-  utes,  Winnie  Kochlef-  fel  rang  up  with  some  proposal  more  fatuous  than  the  last-an  up-  dated  version  of  'Die  Fledermaus  to  star  Truman  Capote,  a  ju-  venile  for  ages  six  to  nine  about  Sweeney  Todd,  the  Demon  Barber  of  Fleet  Street.  The  chaos  was  climaxed  by  the  arrival  of  a  delegation  from  the  top  echelon  of  CBS,  headed  by  William  Paley.  They  were  all  bab-  bling  like  a  pack  of  kindergartners,  so  incoherent  that  I  was  hard  put  to  it  to  understand  them,  but  I  finally  deciphered  their  prattle.  I_  could  scarcely  credit  my  senses:  they  want  me  to  handle  all  future  writing  for  the  network-sitcoms,  reportage,  talk  shows,  documentaries,  anything  involv-  ing  words-in  return  for  ten  per  cent  of  their  gross.  Judas  Priest,  what  do  they  think  I  am-superhuman?&quot;  A  REd-LEtter day,  mingling  ju-  bilation  and  triumph.  The  mail  brought  a  communication  from  [REDACTED]'s  former  Minister  of  Culture,  addressing  me  as  'Cher  [REDACTED]?  In-  adequate  as  is  my  French,  it  read  in  translation  :  'One  has  long  enough  been  acquainted  with  your  eminence  in  the  belletristic  sphere.  Now  we  are  over-  turned  to  uncover  you  as  a  painterly  ace,  having  possessed  ourselves  of  two  masterworks  the  most  fabulous  from  your  palette.  Lady  Rumor  has  it  that  these  arebut  joys  of  the  spirit,  dashed  off  as  refreshments  between  labor.  Basta!  (Bastard!)  To  us  they  are  uniquely  flavorsome,  gorgeous  celebra-tions  of  the  Post-Impressionist  style,  reducing  the  daubs  of  Vuillard,  Seurat,  Signac,  and  Pissarro  to  artistic  plmples  You  shall  hang  in  the  Jeu  de  Paume,  by  blue,  or  else  I  scrawl  the  names  of  my  fellow-Academicians  in  every  vespasenne  in  [REDACTED]!  Welcome  to  the  company  of  the  immortals.  I  em-  brace  you.  Andr\xc3\xa9  Malraux.  &quot;I  used  to  wonder  what  it  felt  like  to  be  a  Renaissance  man,  a  Leonardo  da  Vinci,  enshrined  with  the  gods  on  Olympus.  Now  I  know.&quot;  DECEMBER 21  EUREKA\xe2\x80\x94rm  capstone  of  my  en-  deavors  has  fallen  into  placc  the  dream  I  have  so  long  nurtured  is  real-  ized  at  last.  After  two  days  of  unre-  mitting  toil,  my  masterpiece,  the  chef  d'ccuvre  that  will  render  the  name  of  Patrick  Foley  de  Grandeur  imperish-  able  forevermore,  is  complete.  &quot;For  years,  just  as  a  diamond  cutter  seeks  a  Koh-i-noor  worthy  of  his  mal-  let  and  chisel,  just  as  a  fishmonger  sort-  ing  whitebait  envisions  the  marlin  he  will  mount  on  his  wall,  so  have  I  scratched  my  noggin  for  a  subject  to  inspire  Calliope,  my  muse.  To  rewrite  Balzac's  'Com\xc3\xa9dic  Humaine'?  Harold  Robbins  and  Irving  Stonchenge  have  anticipated  me.  To  retrace  the  endless  neurotic  embroideries  of  Proust?  Who  needs  it?  And  then,  in  a  blinding  flash,  the  scales  fell  from  my  Shake-  speare!  &quot;What  I  have  done  to  Shakespeare,  in  the  apt  phrase  of  Ruskin's  'Stones  of  4974616c79,  shouldn't  happen  to  a  doge,  I  have  shorn  all  his  highflown  rodomontade,  euphuistical  bombast,  and  sesquipedalian  twaddle  and  distilled  tales  comprehensible  to  the  veriest  moron,  to  the  most  benighted  redneck,  to  even  a  rock  fan.  Fifty  years  from  now,  I  prophesy,  hardhats  swilling  their  beer  in  the  taverns  of  Jackson  Heights  will  be  tearfully  quoting  my  lines,  the  dingy  metaphors  and  crapu-  lous  deglacc  of  the  Bard  long  forgot-  ten.  Single-handedly,  I  have  like  writ-  ten  finis  to  the  age  of  the  egghead,  man.  This  I  guarantee.  &quot;Only  one  scintilla  of  angst  clouds  my  gratification.  Twice  during  the  past  three  days,  a  person  in  a  white  jacket  has  rung  my  doorbell.  When  I  queried  him  on  the  second  occasion  about  the  net  he  was  carrying,  he  said  he  was  a  lepidopterist,  desirous  of  showing  me  some  rare  specimens.  I  mistrusted  his  insincere  smile,  to  say  nothing  of  the  foot  he  tried  to  interpose  in  the  door.  As  I  dictate  this,  he  is  lurking  across  the  street,  clad  in  a  trenchcoat  and  scanning  my  windows  intently.  Some-  thing  tells  me  I'm  going  to  have  trou-  ble  with  that  man.&quot;  "