 b'POSSIBLY  it  occurs  to  others  among  us,  from  time  to  time,  and  perhaps  even  to  more  than  one  of  us  at  the  same  time  and  within  sight  of  each  o  ther,  to  loo  k  up,  for  some  reason  afterward  as  irrevocable  as  a  drea  m,  from  the  gestures  and  the  entire  labors  that  will  never  re  ally  seem  natu  ral  to  us,  now  in  our  lifetimes,  and  remem-  ber  the  queen  as  she  was  when  we  were  there,  rather  than  as  we  have  come  to  imagine  her.  Then  insta  ntly,  for  all  of  our  polishing  of  the  han  dles  with  our  palms,  we  may  feel,  each  of  us  separately,  a  roughness  as  though  the  wood  were  unpeeled  and  o  ur  hands  we  re  back  wi  tho  ut  the  calluses  again.  At  such  moment  s  we  seem  to  have  straightened  too  suddenly.  We  are  dazzled.  We  are  overdone.  We  hope  no  one  notices.  What  has  betrayed  us,  or  what  have  we  betrayed?  The  ges-  tures  fro  m  which  we  look  up  belong  to  labors  that  w  e  have  chosen  deliberate-  l  y  and  even  willfully,  and  apparently  we  had  imagined  that  our  choice  had  put  us  beyond  doubt  or  even  surp  r  ise.  But  when  we  came  to  choose  those  la-  bors  w  e  were  no  longer  children,  and  childhood  i  s  the  time  to  learn  such  things  so  that  they  become  shapes  of  the  growing  body.  Once  that  is  no  longer  possible,  we  have  ente  red  upon  age,  with  its  fr  agments  .  By  the  time  w  e  wer  e  old  enough  to  choose,  we  could  no  t  help  but  doubt.  The  ways  we  perfor  m  our  pre  sent  labors  are  not  even  the  ways  of  o  ur  own  country,  for  that  matter.  What  we  have  l  earned  that  is  of  use  to  us  here  we  have  garn  ered  from  forei  gn-  e  rs,  illiterates  whose  names  we  c  an  scarcely  pronounce,  watching  them  ev-  ery  day  as  though  they  were  new,  and  picking  up,  with  what  appeared  to  be  the  essence  of  the  actions,  the  local  and  personal  idios  yncrasies,  rehearsing  the  combinations  awkwardly,  feeling  fool-  ish,  but  goin  g  on,  having  to  get  the  job  done  before  the  en  d  of  its  u  npre-  dictable  season.  Certainly  they  are  not  g  estur  e  s  that  we  were  born  to-what-  ever  that  means,  and  it  i  s  something  that  we  have  come  to  question  more  and  more  often,  thoug  h  this  too  only  to  ours  elv  es.  It  is  hard  to  t  hink  of  any-  thing  in  our  ch  ildhoods  preparing  us  for  these  actions,  and  yet  it  is  always  this  adult  that  the  child  was  busy  mak-  ing.  It  is  true  that  in  those  days  we  had  not  met  the  queen.  For  some  of  us  she  was  not  yet  born.  We  look  up  then,  touched  by  some  impulse  that  is  indeed  ours  but  which  we  do  not  recognize  and  cannot  later  retrace,  from  a  labor  upon  which  we  are  voluntarily  engaged,  and  which  we  have  undertaken  in  her  name,  though  she  is  aware  of  it  only  distantly  if  at  all.  It  is  some  work  that  we  have  learned  to  do  in  the  course  of  doing  it:  our  different  awkwardnesses  have  set-  tled  into  habits,  we  have  ceased  to  pay  attention  to  our  imitating  and  have  de-  veloped  primitive  variants,  original  mis-  takes  and  graces  that  in  due  course  were  repeated  and  entered  upon  des-  tinies  of  their  own.  And  suddenly  we  are  overtaken  as  by  a  chill  or  a  dizzi-  ness  on  standing  up  in  the  sun,  by  the  strangeness  and  lateness,  the  im-  probability  of  each  of  our  movements  and  of  the  whole  enterprise.  And  in  that  moment  of  awareness  of  the  alien  nature  of  what  we  are  doing,  it  seems  that  we  cannot  have  begun  it  forthe  reason  we  imagined  but  must  be  work-  ing  for  something  else  perhaps  inad-  missible  and  even  unknowable.  All  at  once  how  unlikely,  how  preposterous  it  seems  that  she  could  ever  set  foot  (that  foot  like  painted  china)  in  these  muddy  paths,  and  spend  her  days  among  these  raw  fields  beside  the  river  of  hard  water  yellowing  its  stones,  these  caked  and  matted  animals,  and  these  attempts  to  repeat  the  shapes  of  palaces  in  logs  which  we  have  hewn  ourselves-all  of  them  things  that  have  come  to  seem  beautiful  to  us.  Smitten  by  the  oddity  of  our  efforts,  and  face  to  face  with  the  unlikelihood  of  her  ever  inhabiting  the  place  that  we  imagine  we  are  preparing  for  her,  we  glimpse  her  for  a  while  as  we  knew  her-and  ourselves  as  we  knew  her-and  remember  how  silly  she  sometimes  seemed  to  us,  how  ordinary,  to  tell  the  truth,  and  how  undigni-  fied  on  occasion,  how  capricious  and  shallow,  how  ignorant  her  accent  sounded  in  certain  of  the  stone  rooms,  so  that  we  tried  to  avoid  her  there.  But  also  how  we  managed,  in  those  days,  to  refer  to  such  things  among  ourselves,  and  to  laugh  at  them  even  though  we  had  been  brought  up  to  regard  the  person  of  the  sovereign  as  beyond  re-  proach,  like  one  of  the  elements.  Now,  of  course,  we  scarcely  dare  credit  such  thoughts,  even  when  we  are  alone.  No,  we  accuse  the  sudden  lucidity  itself  of  being  a  disguised  temptation  to  surrender,  if  only  for  a  moment,  a  disloyalty  to  the  entire  undertaking  and  to  the  hope  that  was  behind  it,  and  in  time  we  find  ourselves  examin-  ing  that  hope,  also.  But  meanwhile  we  are  here,  and  the  winters  come  sooner  than  those  we  remember,  and  there  is  no  one  to  prepare  for  them  but  our-  selves.  And  yet  those  who  came  here  first,  and  chose  the  place,  were  right,  She  will  not  be  able  to  stay  on  where  she  is,  where  we  were  children.  She  will  be  forced  toleave,  even  to  give  up  every-  thing.  She  will  bring  it  upon  herself,  perhaps  by  those  very  frivolities  that  we  have  managed  to  escape  at  last,  here,  and-it  seems-almost  to  for-  get.  A  place  must  be  made  ready  for  her,  and  its  preparation  has  become  the  abiding  and  cheerful  purpose  of  our  lives.  A  place  which  she  will  have  read  about  but  in  which  we  will  have  learned  to  survive.  Some  ofus  have  brought  our  families-but  it  must  be  said  that  others,  even  some  of  the  founders,  have  gone  back,  in  spite  of  everything.  Most  improbable  of  all,  at  moments,  arethe  decorations,  which  we  have  fashioned  in  the  winters,  without  ex-  perience  or  skill,  from  strange  mate-  rials,  but  according  to  her  taste  as  we  remember  it,  or  after  drawings  of  objects  that  she  is  known  to  be  fond  of.  Baskets  of  flowers  cut  into  the  log  walls,  wooden  wreaths  pegged  to  the  cow  barns.  A  set  of  carved  steps  painted  with  her  flower  and  her  ini-  tials  in  a  crown,  which  we  plan  to  use  in  the  great  throne  room,  when  we  have  time  to  build  it.  '