 b"HE  LISTS  OF  THE  PAST~I  THE  STORIES  OF  THE  HOUSE  Saturday  8/30/69  Cut  Grass  South  Side  RakeTurnaround  Prune  a-Garage  Maple  b-  &quot;__  Mulberry  c-Front  &quot;  Choking  Pine?  Front  Taxus  Side  Apple  Tree  Move  Cut  Stuff  from  Side  Pickets?  Mirror?  1,  2,4,  and  9  have  been  excised  from  this  list  of  chores  with  a  horizon-  tal  stroke;  9,  in  addition,  with  a  neat  tick  mark.  The  following  day,  Sunday  8/31  he  has  more  plans:  Stain  Desk  )  Front  Porch  Stuff  )  Apple  Tree  )  Maple  Tree  )  Chair  )  TRH  Book  Case  Cut  Out  )  Drug  Stuff  )  Cokes (8)  Lettuce  Evidently,  the  desk  was  stained,  front  porch  cleaned  up,  maple  and  ap-  ple  pruned,  Cokes,  drug  stuff,  lettuce  bought.  Lettuce  bought?  No,  lettuce  weeded,  or  picked,  because  this  is  an  outdoorsman's  list,  a  suburban  gar-  dener's,  and  lettuce,  given  its  head,  by  August  is  almost  a  nuisance  vegetable.  The  lists  are  in  a  clipboard  on  a  cel-lar  workbench  totally  marred  by  nail  holes,  rust,  paint,  glue,  hammer  gouges,  and  cigarette  burns,  and  are  written  on  all  kinds  of  paper:  lined  tablet,  milk-  order  forms,  old  envelopes,  the  backs  of  grocery  bills.  Dampness  and  dirt  have  weathered  the  lists,  softened  the  pen-  cilled  admonitions,  some  of  which  are  for  others:  Myron-P  aint  New  Window.  Or:  Water  Hyacinths  C-Feed  Birds  Plant  Bulbs?  The  latter  an  afterthought,  boxed  in  with  red  pencil  at  thetop  of  a  more  ambitious  schedule-his  or  Myron's?  (1)  (2)  Vacuum  and  Scrub  around  Furnace  Tighten  Storm  Windows  a-Study  b-all  others  (3)  Wash  Window  Landing-chamois  a-Inside  b-Outside?  3a-Move  Study  Furniture  Polish  Brass  Work  Wash  Butlers  Pantry  Doors  Turn  Geraniums  Xmas  Stuff  to  3rd  Floor  Drain  Boiler  Nos,  1,  3,  7,  and  8  crossed  off;  along  the  bottom,  in  another  handwriting,  the  message  See  you  in  two  weeks.  Such  a  lot  of  things  for  him  to  do,  that  have  to  be  done,  inside  and  out-side.  If  he  or  Myron  isn't  trimming  cedars,  he's  topping  2  hemlocks,  trim-  ming  All  Bushes  by  House,  weeding,  feeding  roses,  trimming  cedars  (jobs  move  through  the  lists  till  they're  crossed  out,  or  make  comebacks).  The  house  demands  perpetual  care.  Wash-  ing,  painting,  seasonal  chores,  restless  furniture.  Red  armchair  ever  on  the  gad:  2nd  Floor  to  Maid's  Room,  to  basement,  Garage  Loft.  He  listens  to  the  sounds  of  the  house  at  night,  roof  cricking  in  the  January  freeze-loose  shingle?  What  is  that  noise  in  the  walls,  like  water  leaking  from  a  pipe,  oozing  down  through  the  insulation  to  drip  through  the  new  paint  on  my  liv-  ing-room  ceiling?  Call  Electrician  reg.  Hissing  Sound.  Oven  Pilot  Light.  Clean  up  Garden.  Paint  Garage  Cable.  Kill  Crab.  Why,  he  works  like  a  slave.  ESIDE  Xmas  stuff  on  3rd  Floor,  in  a  roomy  closet,  a  carton  of  photographs  at  least  eighteen  inches  deep.  Here,  in  the  middle  of  the  col-  lection,  a  young  man  leans  on  an  axe,  foot  on  a  tree  stump,  somewhere  along  the  Appalachian  [REDACTED],  chin  thrust  to-  ward  the  camera-a  man  who  simply  has  cut  down  a  tree.  Here  the  same  young  man  is  again  (among  ancestors,  collaterals,  peers,  strangers,  friends,  a  German  wedding  party  circa  1910),  a  father  looking  at  a  baby  in  a  playpen  and  a  different,  cruder  house,  with  an  open  porch  that  will  become  a  sun-  room,  a  wilderness  of  lawn,  and  only  some  hollyhocks  to  adumbrate  agar-  den,  Here  are  hundreds  of  other  people,  a  cast  of  thousands.  Babies.  Grandpas.  Husbands  and  wives.  Youngsters.  So  many  children-  still,  for  once,  squint  ing,  cartwheeling,  pos-  ing,  making  theirFirst  Communion,  in  knick,  ers,  lace  dresses,  pina-  fores,  bathing  suits,     gingham,  corduroy,  cotton,  Dacron;  chil-  dren  dead  for  ages,  children  with  their  children.  Six  little  boys  arranged  in  birth  order  (second  from  the  right,  in  hand-  me-down  corduroy,  serious,  two  thousand  miles  away).  People  as  found  in  the  view-  finders  of  dozens  of  cameras,  dating  back  the  invention  of  " b"film,  amid  all  sorts  of  views  (they  travel  a  lot)  or  at  home,where  in-  teriors  are  curiously  the  same.  Look-  alikes  and  strangers,  dear  ones  and  dull-interesting  if  you  got  to  know  them,  maybe,  but  by  and  large,  unin-  troduced  like  guests  at  a  bad  party,  no  livelier  than  the  leaves  that  lie  raked  for  his  compost  heap.  He  isn't  here,  and,  downstairs,  a  doorbell  is  ringing.  E  is,  of  course,  working  in  the  garden.  Inome  of  the  gardens.  The  mirror  garden,  divided  crescents,  reverse  images.  (Myron's  dark  shoul-  ders  disappear  round  the  side  of  the  house,  steering  the  power  mower,  di-  minishing  whir.)  He  is  moving  the  lawn  sprinkler,  the  rainbow-catcher,  to  refreshen  the  sweet  William,  the  columbine,  Turk's-cap  lilies,  phlox-a  gaudy  perennial  gar-  den,  favoring  the  reds  and  oranges,  vivid  against  the  green  of  the  rose-of-  Sharon  hedge,  whose  purple  trumpets  are  just  beginning  to  blow.  Two  thorny  climbing  roses  bridge  the  arch  that  leads  to  the  bottom  of  the  lawn,  the  apple  trees,  rose  and  vegetable  gardens.  He  hasn't  bothered  to  turn  off  the  water,  because  he  likes  its  cold  surprise  on  his  freckled  back  (asthe  davy  heats  up  he  will  shed  most  of  the  clothes  he  began  in,  ending  up  clad  merely  in  unself-conscious  modesty  and  bathing  trunks).  &quot;Whew.&quot;  Panting,  he  straightens,  grabs  a  bandanna  hand-  kerchief  from  a  stone  bench  under  the  silver  maple,  smiles.  &quot;Well,  hello.&quot;  &quot;Aren't  you  afraid  you'll  get  sun-  stroke?&quot;  &quot;''They  really  needed  that.  Do  you  know  we've  had  practically  #0  rain  this  August!&quot;  In  spite  ofthe  dry  spell,  the  lawn  has  maintained  its  green,  the  garden  its  hues,  phlox  and  sweet  William  are  lustrous  under  their  shower  bath.  It  is  a  radiant,  a  glistery  day.  The  water  evokes,  as  well  as  color,  fragrance:  newly  cut  grass.  Whiff  of  sweet  Wil-  liam  and,  from  the  rose  garden,  roses.  He  turns,  contemplates  the  green  circle  of  lawn,  with  the  silver  maple  in  the  center,  the  terrace,  the  shuttered  Vic-  torian  house.  &quot;I've  got  to  do  something  about  those  rhododendrons,&quot;  he  says,  jabbing  a  finger  at  their  unkempt  foli-  age.  &quot;The  terrace  needs  a  new  coat  of  paint.&quot;  However,  he  appears  satisfied  with  the  progress  he  and  Myron  are  making,  arresting  the  tendency  of  things  to  wear  down  and  out  according  to  the  well-known  Second  Law  of  Thermodynamics.  Swish  swish  of  the  sprinkler  on  the  soft  petals  of  flowers.  &quot;Ben!  Lunchtime!&quot;  The  house  looks  imposing  even  from  its  back,  the  kitchen  side.  Three  stories  tall:  many  gables,  many  windows,  and  chimneys,  shingles  recently  painted  light,  or  cactus,  green,  veranda  on  two  and  a  half  sides,  and  on  this  one  a  glass  porch,  where  there  can  be  seen  more  plants.  The  house  was  built  before  the  Civil  War.  Part  of  it,  anyway.  Only  a  study  of  the  tattered  blueprints  rolled  upon  his  closet  shelf  could  show  you  which  part;  it  has  been  through  a  lot  of  architectural  fooling  around.  The  basement  and  the  east  lower  two  stories  for  sure.  There  is  a  secret  crawl  space  under  the  veranda.  The  original  own-  ers  were  Abolitionists,  and  it  is  said  the  house  was  a  stop  on  the  [REDACTED]  Railroad.  It  was  built  as  the  guest  cottage  on  an  estate,  when  the  village  was  all  the  grounds  of  a  manor,  and  the  street  outside  a  drive,  an  alley  to  the  edge  of  the  Sound.  Then  it  became  a  summer  house,  when  this  was  a  summer  town,  a  refuge  for  well-off  city  people,  and  the  town  seemed  farther  from  the  city  than  it  does  now,  though  easily  acces-  sible  by  train.  There  are  many  houses  of  this  sort  in  the  vicinity.  High-ceil-  inged  structures  designed  to  accommo-  date  large  families,  before  air-condi-  tioning  (or  birth  control),  when  labor  was  cheap  and  taste  eclectic;  fake  tur-  rets,  widow's  walks,  and  gingerbread  jigsaw  work  abound-with  service  bells  and  fireplaces  in  every  room.  When  there  were  plenty  of  servants  to  answer  the  bells,  to  open  the  windows  to  the  breezes  from  the  Sound  at  night,  and  draw  the  curtains  in  the  morning.  Not  many  others,  though,  have  lawns  front  and  back,  three  gardens,  two  compost  heaps,  and  an  unattached  ga-  rage  that  used  to  hold  carriages.  During  the  Depression  the  title  passed  to  a  bank.  When  he  bought  it,  just  before  the  Second  World  War,  there  were  only  two  other  houses  on  the  block,  and  from  where  he  is  stand-  ing,  under  the  maple,  he  could  see  over  a  tennis  court  and  a  field  clear  to  the  river.  &quot;Ben!  Time  for  lunch!&quot;  There  are  more  roses,  and  a  cutting  garden,  tulips  lying  low  till  next  spring,  along  the  east  foundations  of  the  house,  but  no  flowers  in  front,  the  dark,  north-facing  side.  Just  the  rhodo-  dendrons  growing  up  to  each  side  of  the  veranda  steps,  and  the  bush  in  front  of  them,  where  two  nearly  in-  visible  paths  lead  to  the  wide  formal  lawn,  sloping  down  to  the  street,  nearly  a  quarter  of  an  acre.  Myron  is  mowing  it  now.  The  front  lawn,  though  well  tended,  is  hardly  used  except  by  child  trespass-  " b"ers,  who  are  always  welcome,  and  the  unprosecutable  starlings  and  robins.  This  yard  is  almost  a  separate  lot,  large  enough  to  be  zoned  for  construction,  though  fortunately  they  never  needed  to  sell  or  build  on  it.  A  hedge  of  rho-  dodendron  mixed  with  evergreen  shrub-  bery  nearly  conceals  the  lower  stories  of  the  house  from  the  sidewalk.Since  the  garage  is  in  back,  the  occupants,  and  even  most  visitors,  generally  enter  the  house  through  the  kitchen  door.  Only  when  you  are  driving  up  the  long,  gravelled  approach  or  stand  at  the  foot  of  the  lawn  can  you  really  see  the  columned  neo-antebellum  fagade,  with  the  covered  double-decker  veranda,  and  appreciate  what  the  architectural  tink-  erers  had  in  mind.  From  this  angle,  lawn,  pillars,  the  dark  hemlocks  that  shield  it  from  its  neighbor  on  the  far  side  of  the  drive,  the  great  maples  and  clms-all  majestically  proportionate,  the  right  scale.  The  house  looks  grand,  shaded,  serene.  (KBenl\xe2\x80\x99)  PEACE  came  to  the  village,  fol-  lowed  by  the  bulldozer.  The  great  gardens,  lawns,  tennis  and  croquet  courts  shrank,  diminished  in  number,  disappeared;  one-story  buildings  uni-  formly  replaced  the  vacant  lots  and  orchards,  mushroomed  and  filled  in  the  spaces  around  the  old  houses  to  the  limits  of  growth.  The  village,  though  three  times  as  large  as  before,  has  real-  ly  stopped  growing  and  is  peaceful  again,  an  orderly  town,  observing  the  limits.  No  one  but  a  stranger  would  think  of  driving  faster  than  the  twen-  ty-five  m.p.h.  ordained.  (Last  week,  a  couple  of  house-hunters  swerved  to  dodge  a  bicycle  being  ridden  by  a  child  reading  a  comic  book  and  ran  over  the  Sanders'  weimaraner,  at  large  and  vio-  lating  the  leash  laws.)  Though  empty  houses  are  snapped  up  at  once,  it's  more  like  a  village  again.  Most  people  have  lived  here  long  enough  to  be  able  to  nod  to  one  another  on  the  train,  at  church  or  temple,  and  to  belong  to  the  ambulance  corps  of  the  volunteer  fire  department,  serve  on  the  library  committee,  join  any  of  three  beach  clubs  (except  forthe  Jews).  Their  children-and  sometimes  their  grandchildren-move  into  the  split-  level  if  they  can't  afford  the  Victorian.  They  sit  elbow-to-blanket  on  the  tiny  beaches,  where  every  year  winter  washes  away  the  sand  that  is  barged  in  every  spring  from  Long  Island.  Evenings,  screen  doors  bang  behind  children  rushing  out  to  meet  each  other  for  hide-and-seek,  giant  steps,  dead  dog,  red  light.  Teen-agers  play  radios  by  the  diminutive  but  authentic  coves  and  promontories  of  the  public  park-  which  are  said  to  have  sheltered  pi-  rates  and  smugglers,  and  did  harbor  deer,  and  now  a  strange  melanistic  race  of  gray  squirrels-and  get  caught  smoking  contraband  substances  by  the  watchful  police  force  of  two.  Their  parents  entertain  with  more  traditional  fare,  outdoor  cookouts,  the  smell  of  barbecue  smoke  in  the  air,  the  chime  of  cocktail  glasses  and  rising  voices.  Right  now  you  would  think  they  had  all  gone  down  to  the  water-to  the  park  or  to  the  beaches  to  watch  their  childrenor  boats.  A  poor  day  for  sail-  ing,  though,  windless  and  still.  In  the  garden,  only  the  sound  of  the  mower  and  the  lawn  sprinkler,  and  footfalls  on  the  hollow  veranda,  where  a  blond  lady  in  harlequin  glasses  is  showing  a  young  couple  up  the  steps  that  strangers  use.  From  a  becalmed  sailboat,  the  vil-  lage  shimmers  like  a  road  mirage,  looks  almost  as  green  as  it  might  have  to  its  European  discoverers  several  cen-  turies  ago.  &quot;Ben,  lunch  is  ready!  Come  out  of  the  garden!&quot;  He  double-checks  to  make  sure  it  can  do  without  him  for  the  next  min-  ute  and  a  half,  and  goes  in  through  the  kitchen  to  draw  a  glass  of  water  from  the  faucets  in  the  butler's  pantry.  OVER  the  polished-copper  pantry  sink  is  the  bell  box;  when  a  bell  upstairs  or  down  is  pressed,a  white  card  drops  with  an  audible  click  behind  the  glass  face  to  tell  which  room  you  are  ringing  from.  Living  Room.  Par-  lor.  Master  Bedroom.  Front  Door.  He  fixed  it  up  to  amuse  the  grand-  children.  But  the  wiring  in  the  walls,  the  nerves  of  the  house,  is  fully  mod-  ern,  functioning  well  even  with  all  five  air-conditioners  going  at  once.  Stand  on  the  gray  veranda,  a  little  to  the  left  of  the  front  door,  and  you  can  look  clear  through  the  house:  through  living  room,  dining  room,  into  the  solarium,  and  through  that  to  the  lawn  and  the  mirror  garden  and  the  rose-of-Sharon  arch,  down  to  the  hedge  where  the  cardinal  nests  (three  broods  this  year),  to  the  boy-face  foun-  tain  and  the  dog's  gravestone  and  the  cemetery  the  neighborhood  children  made,  stone  specks  among  ivy,  under  the  cedars  that  so  constantly  have  to  be  trimmed.  Now  come  in  through  the  front  door.  Inside,  you  will  see  that  here  at  least  he  hasn't  right  now  to  work  so  hard.  The  inside  of  the  house  is  tidy  as  a  tomb.  It  is  only  last  year,  after  all,  that  the  painters  took  away  their  buck-  ets  and  drop  cloths,  and  they  got  the  decorator's  bill.  The  bad  patch  in  the  living-room  ceiling  where  the  water  leaked  (but  the  plumbing,  the  guts  of  thehouse,  is  really  quite  sound,  all  copper)  has  been  replastered.  Up-  stairs  and  down,  the  screens  over  the  windows  (the  eyesof  the  house)  are  mended  and  fast,  not  even  to  be  thought  about  until  late  September,  when  they  will  be  replaced  by  storm  windows,  ever  in  need  of  tightening.  The  entrance-hall  mirror  reflects  the  stained-glass  Art  Nouveau  fanlight  over  the  front  door;  beneath  the  mir-  ror,  in  the  fireplace,  a  music  box  inlaid  with  Swiss  scenes-one  of  many  he  dis-  covered  and  repaired.  Listen  a  minute.  " b"The  spiny  cylinder  disturbs  the  com's  teeth,  which  move  up  and  down  like  tiny  piano  keys,  playing  operatic  melo-  dies.  &quot;Martha.&quot;  'Tis  the  Last  Rose  of  Summer.  On  your  left  is  the  round  green  parlor,  full  of  breakables,  the  glass  doves  and  the  fragile  glass-topped  bibelot  table  and  the  white-and-gold  Bavarian-china  breakfast  set,  an  anni-  versary  present.  Women  took  tea  there,  pressed  the  mother-of-pearl  bell  button  forthe  butler,  when  there  were  butlers  to  answer  the  bell.  Now  the  high-ceilinged  living  room,  really  as  big  as  two  rooms.  No  ashes  in  the  big  fireplace  with  the  Spanish  marble  mantelpiece,  or  in  the  ashtrays;  the  fat  silk  cushions  on  the  chairs  are  plumped  up.  Their  very  best  furniture,  winnowed  through  the  years,  safe  from  defacement  now  the  children  are  grown  up.  [REDACTED]-backed  Victorian  sofa  they  discovered  rightafter  they  were  married,  when  antique  shopping  was  cheaper.  He  dickered  the  pro-  prictor  down,  bought  it  for  asong.  There's  the  eighteenth-century  chest  they  bought  in  Ireland.  The  brown  velvet  love  seat,  polished  to  a  patina  by  the  seats  of  non-Victorian  children  using  it  for  a  slide.  The  floorboards  in  the  dining  room  waxed  to  a  mirror  finish;  likewise  the  dining-room  table,  with  the  chairs  from  an  English  jury  room.  He  spent  a  winter  sanding  it,  and  varnished  it  seven  times.  Up  the  staircase  a  girl  would  be  proud  to  throw  her  bouquet  from,  pausing  on  the  landing  to  admire  the  wide  window  that  admits  whatever  light  can  get  through  the  hemlocks,  backlighting  the  garden-colored  paper-  weights  and  vases  on  the  glass  shelves.  Listen  to  the  other  music  boxes,  large  and  small,  classical  and  romantic  and  schmalz,  Mozart  and  Strauss,  drums  and  castanets,  sostemuto,  andante.  Up-  stairs  hallway.  Four  bedrooms,  three  baths,  a  washer  should  takecare  of  that  leaky  faucet  some  rainy  day,  plenty  of  room  for  a  growing  family.  From  the  front  bedrooms,  French  doors  open  onto  the  second  story  of  the  covered  veranda,  (Children  have  skated  there  in  wet  weather  in  spite  of  the  ordinances.)  More  rooms,  and  closets,  some  of  them  room-size,  in  the  finished  third  floor;  the  attic.  The  memory  of  the  house.  And  its  gizzard,  too,  catchall  for  the  things  that  don't  go  anywhere  else.  Last  Xmas.  Red  armchair,  broken  paperback  books,  old  clothes,  old  toys.  Boxes  labelled  ac-  cording  to  their  contents  or  destina-  tion:  3rd  Floor,  Misc.  Silver,  Apoth.  Jars,  Junk.  It  is  not  very  tidy.  It  is  a  mess,  as  a  matter  of  fact.  Someone  has  been  looking  for  things,  or  packing.  However,  you  might  as  well  look  at  the  big  fan  that  sucks  up  the  hot  air  and  helps  keep  the  house  cool  at  night,  the  air  space  that  insulates  and  cuts  way  down  on  the  air-conditioning  bill,  the  lungs,  so  the  house  can  breathe  and  the  owners  sleep  soundly.  Look  out  on  the  trees-the  trees  have  grown  high,  even  after  all  that  building.  From  the  dormer  casement  windows  above  the  tree  line  all  you  see  is  waves  of  dark  August  leaves,  and  a  glimpse  of  blue  water.  Up  here,  too,  is  another  domicile,  alter  ego  of  the  real  one,  the  doll  " b"house.  The  children  have  failed  to  re-  place  the  front,  detachable  wall.  The  house  stands  open  like  a  bombstruck  mansion.  He  made  the  model,  working,  by  necessity,  winter  evenings  in  the  base-  ment,  where  his  tools  are,  the  heart  of  the  house,  with  its  furnace  hissing,  the  smell  of  glue  and  solder.  He  built  it  as  a  birthday  present  for  one  daughter  while  the  other  helped  him,  watching  mostly,  as  he  turned  the  fine  mahogany  bannister  (just  like  the  one  that  in  the  real  house  weaves  from  the  second  floor)  and  set  in  the  tiny,  perfect  spokes.  It  is  built  exactly  toscale:  an  inch  to  a  foot.  If  a  six-inch  family  man  moved  in,  he  would  find  it  in  working  order  (except  for  the  plumbing)-  light  switches  in  every  room  to  turn  on  and  off,  shutters  that  open  and  shut,  made  with  a  fidelity  to  detail  so  obses-  sive  that  even  the  blind  room  at  the  top  of  the  stairs  has  a  door  that  a  doll    mother  could  walk  through  carrying  linen  to  change  the  bed  in  the  lace-  curtained  master  bedroom.  Red  lights  in  the  fireplaces  to  simu-  late  fires;  lights  even  for  the  attic  (un-  finished),  where  Xmas  stuff  is  stored,  a  plastic  tree  and  chips  of  wood  cov-  ered  with  red  and  gold  foil  to  put  un-  der  it.  He  scored  the  Plexiglas  crescent  attic  windows  with  a  nail,  in  a  haze  of  blue  Lucky  Strike  smoke,  sitting  down  every  so  often  to  run  his  fingers  over  the  piano  keys.  Next  year,  for  the  other  daughter,  he  created  an  ell.  Living  room,  dining  room,  turkey  on  the  sideboard,  the  rest  of  the  dinner  in  the  kitchen,  icebox  full  of  synthetic  goodies.  No  cellar,  of  course,  or  a  garden-it  stands  on  a  plywood  plat-  form  with  turnaround  and  shade  trees  and  ornamental  shrubs.  The  piano  in  the  doll  house  plays  &quot;Happy  Birthday.&quot;  The  doorbells  ring,  front  and  back.  He  ordered  expensive  furniture  from  a hundred-page  catalogue,  papered  the  walls  with  Paisley  and  florets,  book-lin-  ing  paper.  They  stocked  it  with  a  doll  family  that  kept  on  growing:  a  father,  a  mother,  boy  and  girl  twins,  a  baby,  a  nurse,  and  a  uniformed  maid  to  answer  the  door.  And  the  real  little  girls  played  with  it,  in  it.  A  leg  broke  off  the  Hepple-  white  sofa.  The  miniature  New  York  Times  was  read  to  bits,  The  music-  box  workings  of  the  piano  faltered.  The  imitation  food  disappeared,  though  it  was  never  consumed;  dust  darkened  the  white  curtains  and  the  maid  was  helpless  to  prevent  it.  And  the  neigh-  borhood  children,  and  now  the  grand-  children,  innocently  fascinated  by  its  smallness,  oblivious  to  its  beauty.  Their  small  hands  buzz  the  doorbell,  turn  the  lights  (radio  tubes)  on  and  off,  leaving  them  on  all  night.  They  have  recently  been  playing  Moving  Man,  with  a  dump  truck,  which  is  at  the  back  door,  and  the  living  room  fur-  niture  (what  remains  of  it)  out  on  the  fake  lawn;  and  of  the  dolls  only  the  wife  is  left.  OWN  the  uncarpeted  flight  to  the  second-floor  landing,  and  on  down  the  steep  back  stairs  to  the  big  kitchen.  The  stomach  of  the  house.  The  dinette  looks  out  over  the  gar-  den;  the  dishwasher's  oldbut  has  nev-  er  given  much  trouble,  though  the  Disposall  has  swallowed  a  spoon  and  not  yet  digested  it.  But  that's  all  right,  since  he  sees  to  it  that  the  tea  leaves  and  coffee  grounds,  organic  waste,are  kept  out  for  the  mulch  pile.  No,  that  is  nota  bearing  wall,  and  you  could  break  through  the  dinette  into  the  solarium  to  convert  the  family  room  so  many  young  families  seem  to  need.  This  door  opens  onto  the  steps  to  the  basement,  and  outside  there's  a  ground-level  alternative  entrance,  the  old-fashioned  canted  cellar  doors  open-  ing  outward,  for  toddlers  to  creep  up  and  slide  down.  PICK  up  the  wrought-iron  filigree  key  from  the  hook  by  the  kitchen  door,  walk  outside,  and  around  up  the  gray  veranda  steps  near  the  solarium.  Do  you  see  this  chest,  painted  gray  to  match  the  porch?  The  painters  were  surprised  when  they  tried  to  move  it.  Because  it  is  a  trick.  It  has  a  hinged  top,  and  is  unlocked  with  the  old-  fashioned  key,  and  when  the  lid  is  thrown  back  it  reveals  a  short  steep  flight  of  steps,  with  a  rope  bannister,  leading  to  the  very  bottom  part  of  the  house.  At  the  foot  of  the  steps  there  is  a  door  on  each  side.  One  opens  into  the  " b"basement  proper,  the  other  onto  a  chamber  hollowed  out  in  the  dirt  foun-  dation  under  the  veranda,  deep  enough  for  a  man  to  stand  upright  in,  wide  enough  to  live  in  if  you  had  to.  The  foundation,  on  the  far  side,  is  an  eightcen-inch  ledge  of  rock;  though  the  floor  is  dirt,  even  in  hurricane  weather  it  stays  dry-this  is  one  of  the  driest  basements  in  town.  Now  through  the  other  door,  to  the  basement  itself,  where  he  worked  on  the  doll  house  and  other  projects,  with  whatever  energy  remained  after  the  five-fifty-seven  commute,  builder  as  well  as  breadwinner-finishing  antique  furniture,  never  finishing  that  old  or-  gan  over  there  by  the  whitewashed  wall.  Here  he  is,  taking  a  break  from  yard  work  to  oblige  the  neighbor  children,  who  want  to  listen  to  him  play.  In  the  music  corner,  with  a  cumbersome  rec-  ord  player  of  the  fifties  and  an  old  Victrola  where  the  little  dog  no  longe:  barks,  the  bookshelf  full  of  78-r.p.m.  jazz  records,  the  upright  piano,  a  [REDACTED].  The  voice  of  the  house.  He  switches  on  the  brass  standing  lamp,  lights  a  cigarette,  puts  it  in  the  ashtray  on  top  of  the  piano  beside  the  Fake  Book,  swings  into  an  old-time  medley.  &quot;Do  you  know  what  it  means,  to  miss  Noo  Orleans?  Missed  the  Sat-  urday  dance.  Got  as  far  as  the  door.  Thought  they'd  ask  me  about  you;  don't  get  around  much  anymore.  Liza,  Liza,  dee  da  da.  I'll  be  down  to  getcha  in  a  taxi,  Honey,  you  better  be  ready  about  half  past  eight  ...&quot;  and  their  favorite,  the  Alligator  Crawl.  Hepcat  Rumble.  But  he  has  to  feed  his  roses  now,  do  the  compost  heap  behind  the  hedge  a  good  turn.  The  black  squirrel  is  burying  a  nut  in  the  animal  grave-  yard  his  friends  the  Noonan  children  made,  The  roses  have  to  be  cut  or  they  will  go  to  seed  and  cease  to  flower.  He  has  to  get  back  to  his  cabbage  kingdom.     FOOTSTEPS  on  the  porch,  lantern  bobbing,  extinguished.  Click,  the  key  finds  the  lock,  creak,  thetopof  the  false  chest  is  thrown  back,  the  side  panel  released.  A  mist  from  the  water  hides  the  moon,  making  their  passage  up  from  the  beach  safer  though  hard-  er:  white  man  in  dark  trousers,  leather  boots,  sweating  in  the  breathless  August  heat,  black  man  wearing  all  that  he  owns,  a  lent  white  shirt  open  at  the  neck,  tattered  pants,  vaguely  luminous.  Tomorrow  they'll  give  him  boots  for  his  travel-torn  feet.  Escort  and  his  charge  feel  for  the  footholds,  descend.  Open  the  door  to  the  hiding  hole.  Fumble  for  the  candle, in  a  holder  set  into  the  wall.  A  gutter-  ing  orange  light  discloses  the  chamber,  provisioned  with  pallet,  commode,  a  covered  basket,  doorway  so  low  that  the  black  man  must  duck  his  head,  &quot;Now,  there's  food  in  that  basket.  Remember  your  instructions.  Tomorrow  night  aft-  er  sunset&quot;  -but  no  window  to  tell  when  sunset  will  be--&quot;three  knocks,  and  they'll  be  dressed  in  gray.  Try  to  move  around  as  little  as  possible.&quot;  Mute  with  fear  and  fatigue,  the  black  man  tries  to  speak,  can  only  nod  his  head.  The  door  closes,  the  bolt  is  slid  back,  footsteps  over  his  head,  through  the  leaves,  gone.  Back  to  the  beached  dory,  to  row  with  a  faint  swish  of  oars  out  to  the  other  boat  that  ferried  them  here  acrossthe  water.  Amos  the  slave,  a  free  man  now,  listens  for  the  sounds  of  the  house,  but  the  occupants  sleep,  oblivious  to  the  errand  that  has  just  been  completed.  Should  anyone  ask,  they  have  heard  nothing.  Tomorrow  when  the  sun  has  gone  down,  two  men  in  gray,  wide  hat  brims  partially  shielding  their  faces,  are  to  lead  him  through  the  woods  to  a  tunnel,  stumbling  together  through  the  fetid  passage  to  another  cellar,  up  the  secret  stairs,  to  the  night  air.  A  coach  will  be  waiting.  Up  the  Boston  Post  Road,  dressed  as  a  woman,  many  changes,  many  houses-[REDACTED]!  Amos  the  free  man  shivers  in  the  humid  com-  partment,  too  tired  even  to  taste  what's  in  the  basket,  watching  the  flame  di-  minish,  expiring,  waiting  for  darkness.  When  it  comes  he  must  not  cry  out.  He  thinks  of  [REDACTED],  of  the  North  Star,  his  children,  and  shuts  his  eyes.  They  had  not  thought  to  leave  him  candles  enough  for  his  vigil.  The  candle  goes  out.  HO  is  at  the  door?  Why  is  the  furniture  out  on  the  lawn?  What  is  he  doing  beside  the  compost  heap,  standing  so  still  and  reading  the  new  inscription  the  Noonan  children  have  written  on  the  wooden  pedestal  in  the  center  ofthe  animal  cemetery?  Where  are  they  all  driving  away  to  without  looking  back?  When  will  he  come  out  of  the  garden?  And  walk  through  the  French  doors  of  the  solarium,  into  the  house,  with  his  hands  full  of  Bibb  let-  tuce,  and  roses-Helen  Traubel,  Ster-  ling  Silver,  five  kinds  of  Peace. "