 b"A  COUPLE  of  us  were  sitting  A  around  in  a  large  Midwestern  city  one  night  not  long  ago  when  we  got  this  idea  for  a  magazine  article.  We  would  call  up  housewives,  farmers,  doctors,  white-collar  workers,  black  people,  students,  town  officials,  teachers,  urban  planners,  airline  spokes-  men,  White  House  sources,  leading  economists,  cabdrivers,  newspaper  edi-  tors,  environmental  experts,  ministers,  controversial  writers,  moderate  Re-  publicans,  telephone  operators,  media-  tors,  grant  recipients,  observers,  low-  income  families,  grain  brokers,  country-  and-Western  singers,  skilled  craftsmen,  motorists,  steelworkers,  rural  Ameri-  cans,  alternative  life-stylists,  bystanders,  commuters,  historians,  gay  persons,  in-  vestors,  and  small  children  in  Cali-  fornia,  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  the  Apostle  [REDACTED],  San  Jose,  Syracuse,  Cook  County,  the  Great  Plains,  Pough-  keepsic,  New  Jersey,  North  Dakota,  [REDACTED],  Duluth,  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED]  City,  [REDACTED],  Washing-  ton,  [REDACTED],  Winnetka,  Kennebunkport,  Key  Largo,  [REDACTED],  Amarillo,  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  Amherst,  [REDACTED],  &lt;-&gt;  [REDACTED],  and  East  St.  Louis,  and  ask  &quot;How's  it  going?&quot;  Then  we  would  write  the  article.  All  too  often,  we  felt,  the  media  are  guilty  of  reporting  the&quot;big&quot;  stories  and  completely  overlooking  what  it's  all  about-what  people  are  up  to  and  how  it  looks  to  them,  the  constant  ebb  and  flow  and  pace  and  rhythm  and  cease,  less  change  of  our  lives,  and  more  or  less  just  what  it's  like  to  live  in  Amer-  ica  today  and  have  problems  and  hopes  and  fears  and  dreamsand  to  go  to  work  and  come  home  andwatch  TV  or  go  to  a  show  or  maybe  just  settle  down  with  a  good  book  or  an  in-depth  magazine  article.  Of  course,  we  are  all  guilty  of  this  to  some  extent.  We  tend  to  think  of  days  as  being  rather  similar  to  each  other,  except  maybe  Christmas,  or  New  Year's,  or  Saturday.  However,  as  the  editors  of  the  Life  Special  Report  on  &quot;One  Day  in  the  Life  of  [REDACTED]&quot;  wrote  recently,  &quot;Days  are  like  finger-  prints,  no  one  exactly  like  another  in  its  whorls  and  ridges.&quot;  Or,  one  might  say,  like  magazine  articles,  eachwith  its  quite  different  paragraphs  and  neatly  printed  but  various  hundreds  of  words,  many  of  them  verbs.  Some  people,  in  fact,  may  consider  our  project  rather  similar  to  the  Life  Special  Report.  But  they  are  as  dif-  ferent  as  two  sunrises,  or  billfolds,  or  yesterday  and  tomorrow,  or  [REDACTED]  and  Chicago  Avenues  in  [REDACTED].  OURS  before  the  sun,  its  rays  racing  westward  at  the  speed  of  light,  its  estimated  267  tints  dancing  on  the  choppy,  oil-streaked  waters  of  the  Atlantic,  rose,  [REDACTED]  had  turned  the  United  [REDACTED]  of  [REDACTED],  time  zone  by  time  zone,  into  a  Tuesday  in  mid-  winter.  For  most  556e6974656420537461746573ns,  it  came  in  theirsleep  in  the  middle  of  thenight,  marked  by  only  a  barely  perceptible  change  in  rapid  eye  movements,  a  slight  shifting  of  position  in  bed.  Their  attitudes  toward  Tuesday  were  yet  vague,  uncomprehending.  Awakened  by  telephone  calls,  they  tended  to  feel  it  was  something  they  could  put  off  until  daybreak.  Even  as  [REDACTED]  slept,  West  Ger-  many  and  the  Soviet  Union  had  forged  ahead  in  Tuesday  production,  and  4a6170616e  was  going  home  to  rest  up  for  Wednesday.  In  a  darkened  Labor  De-  partment,  at  Fourteenth  and  Constitu-  tion  in  [REDACTED],  figures  sheathed  in  manila  folders  spelled  out  in  eight-  point  type  growing  unemployment  and  spiralling  inflation.  If  there  were  fears  or  hopes  among  friends  and  foes  that  [REDACTED]  might  not  get  out  of  bed  this  morning,  how-  ever,  they  were  quickly  dispelled.  Al-  ready,  the  first  of  125  million  beds,  160  million  cigarettes,  and  40  million  quarts  of  orange  juice  were  creaking,  being  lit,  and  being  poured.  Four  hun-  dred  million  socks  lay  in  sock  drawers  waiting  to  be  worn,  the  holes  in  them  totalling  700,000  square  feet,  almost  as  large  as  the  White  House  grounds.  In  the  dim  light  of  the  executive  bedroom,  36-per-cent-popular  Gerald  Ford  was  assessing  his  own  sockop-  tions.  A  few  minutes  before,  in  keeping  with  Presidential  tradition,  he  had  pulled  on  his  pants  one  leg  at  a  time,  and  now,  donning  apair  of  wool  sweat  socks  first  worn  by  former  President  Eisenhower,  he  slipped  into  black  high-  top  shoes  from  the  Hoover  Administra-  tion  and  made  his  way  along  a  darkened  corridor  toward  the  Toaster  Room.  As  daylight  spread  over  the  popu-  lous,  historic  East  to  the  fertile  Mid-  west,  far-flung  Plains,  scenic  Moun-  tain,  and  booming  [REDACTED]  regions,  lights  came  on  in  millionsof  homes,  apartments,  condominiums,  town  hous-  es,  duplexes,  mobile  homes,  hospitals,  halfway  houses,  and  correctional  insti-  " b"tutions.  Throats  were  cleared,  tooth-  paste  tubes  squeezed,  doors  slammed,  and  long  strips  of  bacon  arrayed  on  pans  to  crackle  over  low  to  moderate  heat.  Women  sighed,  brushed  their  hair,  scolded  children,  flipped  pan-  cakes,  tied  shoelaces.  Men  gulped  cof-  fee,  scanned  headlines,  put  on  coats,  started  cars.  Children  whimpered,  watched  TV  cartoons,  kicked  each  oth-  er,left  crusts,  wheedled  small  change.  Millions  of  dogs  dozed  in  breakfast  nooks  or  wandered  aimlessly  into  living  rooms.  In  Eastport,  [REDACTED],  Buford  Knapp,  the  easternmost  restaurant  owner  in  the  country,  paused  between  orders  of  eggs  and  hashbrowns  to  raise  his  prices  another  nickel.  Residents  of  the  Ga-  briel  Nursing  Home  in  [REDACTED]  were  wheeled  to  their  windows  forthe  flag  raising  and  Pledge  of  Allegiance.  A  bus  rumbled  along  historic  Market  Street  in  San  Francisco.  A  flockof  bluebirds  described  graceful  ares  over  downtown  [REDACTED].  In  the  kitchen  of  a  farm  commune  near  Middlebury,  [REDACTED],  Norman  Lefko  slid  a  pan  of  blueberry  muffins  into  the  ancient  woodstove  and  sat  down  at  a  plank  table  to  read  the  Sunday  [REDACTED]  Times.  In  [REDACTED],  Craig  Claiborne  arose  briefly  for  a  glass  of  tomato  juice.  As  he  did  so,  Fargo  housewife  Eula  Larpenteur  prepared  fried  eggs,  following  Clai-  borne's  own  recipe  (&quot;Break  the  desired  number  of  eggs  into  a  saucer  and  slip  them  carefully  in  the  pan....  If  the  eggs  are  to  be  cooked  on  both  sides,  turn  with  a  pancake  turner&quot;)  and  listening  to  &quot;Don't  Give  Me  a  Drink,&quot;  the  new  Stan  Byerman  hit.  Mean-  while,  Stan  Byerman  slept  fitfully  in  the  Cartesian  Suite  of  the  Mambo  Motel  in  [REDACTED],  having  played  to  an  overflow  crowd  in  the  Memorial  Auditorium  the  night  before.  At  that  moment,  &quot;Don't  Give  Me  a  Drink&quot;  was  being  heard  in  St.  Louis,  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  and  [REDACTED]  (where  base-  baller  Pete  Rose  had  just  nicked  his  cheek).  It  was  not  being  heard  in  Chi-  cago,  where  columnist  Ann  Landers  was  reading  her  first  letter  of  the  day.  &quot;Dear  Ann,&quot;  it  began.  &quot;The  woman  who  said  she  was  tired  of  her  hus-  band's  snoring  made  me  sick  to  my  stomach.  ...&quot;  And  so  the  morning  began.  For  sev-  eral  hours,  time  seemed  to  pass  quickly.  Before  556e6974656420537461746573ns  knew  it,  it  was  al-  most  noon  Eastern  daylight-saving  time.  They  had  worked  hard,  the  more  than  77  million  employed  in  mining,  construction,  manufacturing,  transpor-  tation,  sales,  finance,  personal  services,  and  government,  and  now  it  was  time  for  lunch.  They  had  earned  it.  Al-  though  $1.75  billion  of  debt  had  been  incurred,  124  persons  killed  on  high-  ways,  and  $8  million  more  spent  on  cigarettes  than  on  education,  $2  billion  had  been  added  to  the  gross  national  product  that  Tuesday  morning.  Steel  had  been  rolled,  buses  driven,  beds  made,  reports  typed,  tape  recorders  as-  sembled,  Shakespeare  taught,  windows  wiped,  washing  machines  repaired,  ma-  jor  policy  changes  announced.  Now  the  first  of  4.6  million  cans  of  soup  were  opened,  the  last  of  2  million  plates  of  leftovers  were  brought  out  of  re-  frigerators.  Waxed  paper  crackled  in  crowded  lunchrooms,  waitresses  from  [REDACTED]  to  [REDACTED]  yelled  &quot;One  with,  skip  the  pickle,&quot;  and  a  gigantic  tidal  wave  of  egg  salad,  tuna,  and  peanut  butter  was  spread  over  89  million  slices  ofbread.  Among  those  who  did  not  eat  lunch  were  Baba  Ram  Dass,  Seiji  Ozawa,  Francis  Tarkenton,  and  Selby  Dale,  a  stockbroker  in  San  Diego,  The  Dow-Jones  industrial  average  was  down  eight  points  at  noon,  and  his  breakfast  had  come  up  at  11.  S  the  nation  slipped  into  afternoon,  it  seemed  to  lose  stride  and  falter.  Clocks  were  watched,  wheels  spun.  From  the  sequoia-shaded  [REDACTED]  Coast  to  the  stubbled  [REDACTED]  wheat  fields  to  rockbound  [REDACTED],  the  national  mood  shifted  to  one  of  boredom,  then  apathy  and  resignation,  with  an  occasional  mo-  ment  of  outright  despair.  Many,  it  is  true,  maintained  momentum.  President  Ford,  meeting  with  his  economic  ad-  visers,  pledged  continued  efforts  to  curb  inflation.  Secretary  of  State  Kissinger,  speaking  at  the  National  Press  Club,  called  for  continued  efforts  to  establish  structures  for  peace.  Hundreds  of  other  efforts  continued,  or  were  pledged,  or  called  for,  as  did  numerous  operations,  campaigns,  programs,  and  attempts.  Talks  on  new  contracts  continued.  Searches  for  lost  persons  continued,  and  hopes  remained  high.  Wars  against  cancer,  school  dropouts,  crime,  unem-  ployment,  pollution,  and  discrimination  went  on,  along  with  planning  for  the  Bicentennial,  Middle  East  peace  talks,  &quot;'The  Fantasticks,&quot;  and  scores  of  in-  vestigations.  Hearings  resumed.  Many  ends,  or  the  beginnings  of  ends,  were  sighted.  Nonetheless,  interest,  for  the  most  part,  lagged.  Polls  showed  a  25-per-  cent  jump  in  indecision  after  lunch:  &quot;Don't  know&quot;&quot;  was  up  almost  a  third;  &quot;Don't  care  one  way  or  the  other&quot;  and  &quot;Both  are  just  as  bad&quot;  showed  similar  increases.  In  New  Haven,  sophomore  Raymond  Doswell  took  ten  minutes  to  remember  the  composition  of  methane.  In  Albuquerque,  N.M.,  Ernest  Hollard,  a  32-year-old  architect,  " b"lost  the  will  to  live.  (Fortunately,  nothing  was  wrong  with  him,  and  he  soon  felt  cheerful  enough  to  sharpen  several  pencils.)  In  Fargo,  Eula  Lar-  penteur  called  a  local  radio  station  and  requested  anything  by  the  Chenilles.  Henny  Youngman  spoke  to  a  luncheon  in  Los  Angeles  and  made  a  joke  about  small  businessmen.  In  hospitals  around  the  country,  thousands  were  treated  for  self-inflicted  cuts  suffered  in  mo-  ments  of  inattention.  An  estimated  40,000  lost  faith  in  the  political  process,  even  though,  as  of  midafternoon,  it  re-  mained  strong  and  viable.  In  Shreve-  port,  Stan  Byerman  abuseda  bottle  of  cough  syrup.  Many  people  knew  it.  Others  won-  dered  what  it  was.  Some  mistook  it  for  something  else.  In  [REDACTED],  how-  ever,  eating  saut\xc3\xa9ed  carrots  boiled  to  ex-  tinction,  Craig  Claiborne  knew  it.  Nor-  man  Mailer  knew  it.  John  Lennon  knew  it,  and  knew  that  he  knew  it.  So  did  cabdriver  Jack  Poderhotz.  (&quot;Peo-  ple  are  sheer  stark  raving  crazy  nuts.  Quote  me.&quot;)  In  [REDACTED],  author  (&quot;Fear  and  Loathing&quot;)  Hunter  S.  Thompson  knew  it.  The  big  mudslide  has  started,  he  thought  while  writing.  This  is  it.  Giant  hair  balls  roll  west-  ward,  barbiturates  float  in  the  reser-  voirs.  Ford  smiles  on  television.  The  country  bleeds  from  the  gums,  walks  straight  into  trees.  Of  the  6,554  luncheon  audiences  addressed  today,  most  were  told  not  to  sell  short.  Now,  a  scant  two  hours  lat-  er,  the  country  seemed  less  sure  of  it-  self  and  its  destiny,  values,  strength,  role  in  the  free  world,  commitment  to  the  arts,  and  the  basic  worth  of  its  younger  generation,  most  of  whom  were  in  school  and,  in  turn,  didn't  care  for  it,  if  Janice  Hoyt  of  Boise  was  typical.  She  thought  it  reeked.  In  [REDACTED],  several  high-rank-  ing  congressional  sources  felt  a  sudden  wave  of  intense  personal  disgust.  Jour-  nalist  Robert  Sherrill  wadded  up  a  sheet  of  blank  paper  and  threw  it  angrily  at  a  potted  culp.  Eight  news  conferences  were  cancelled  for  no  rea-  son,  including  one  with  Agriculture  Secretary  Earl  Butz,  who  had  planned  to  display  a  hamburger  bunand  then  reveal  the  few  small  crumbs  of  it  that  arethe  farmer's  portion.  Eric  Sevareid  typed  the  second  draft  of  an  editorial  about  cynicism,  which  would  be  seen  on  the  &quot;CBS  Evening  News&quot;  that  evening,  causing  Walter  Cronkite  to  look  sad  and  a  social-science  teacher  in  [REDACTED]  to  take  a  long  walk  before  supper.  Eagles  were  observed  diving  beakfirst  into  the  frozen  [REDACTED]  north  of  Brainerd,  [REDACTED].  Strange  grinding  noises  over  the  horizon  were  heard  by  crews  of  oil  tankers  in  the  Gulf  of  [REDACTED].  S  the  sun  swept  westward  toward  the  Far  East,  as  long  shadows  fell,  from  the  oyster  beds  of  [REDACTED]  to  [REDACTED]'s  Astrodome  to  [REDACTED]'s  Puget  Sound,  few  556e6974656420537461746573ns  took  umbrage  at  the  passing  of  the  day,  and  regret  was  felt  by  few  of  the  millions  who  clogged  freeways,  jostled  on  trains  and  subways,  jammed  buses,  piled  into  taxis,  hopped  on  bicycles,  or  took  off  on  foot  for  the  1.6-mile  trip  home.  At  colleges  around  the  country,  suggested  reading  lists  of  books  for  further  en-  richment  were  stuffed  in  wastebaskets,  and  only  86  students  remained  after  class  for  personal  help.  The  Boston  Bruins  ended  prac-  tice  early.  At  the  Purity  Pack-  ing  Plant,  in  [REDACTED],  two  workers  stayed  for  free  yoga  classes.  In  the  Oval  Office,  President  Ford  looked  at  the  last  item  on  his  schedule  (&quot;Call  Geo  Meany-ask  la-  bor's  coop  in  days,  weeks  ahead&quot;  ),  said,  &quot;'The  hell  with  it,&quot;  and  went  upstairs  to  toss  quoits.  In  the  garden  outside  his  window,  a  White  House  guard  spat  intoa  rosebush,  chucked  a  rock  at  a  sparrow.  At  the  State  Department,  the  search  for  lasting  peace  slowly  wound  down,  ending  officially  at  7:40,  when  the  Secretary  was  logged  out  of  his  office,  trailed  by  his  bodyguard,  Knute.  His  mind,  accustomed  to  penetrate  far  beyond  the  limits  of  normal  men's  en-  durance,  had  begun  to  lag  shortly  after  6.  Left  behind  on  his  desk  were  four  legal-size  papers  filled  with  doodled  sketches  of  horses,  slippers,  obelisks,  holsters,  curtains,  and  peninsulas.  As  his  limousine  sped  away  from  the  government  curb,  Mrs.  Buford  Knapp  was  putting  on  a  Polynesian  beach  dress  and  coral  accessories  fora  luau  at  the  Eastport  V.F.W  .;  Norman  Lef-  ko  was  carving  a  handmade  maple-  syrup  ladle;  Eula  Larpenteur  was  tell-  ing  her  husband,  Stanley,  to  take  it  easy  on  their  oldest  son,  Craig,  16,  who  was  expected  home  momentarily  from  a  brush  with  the  law.  Elsewhere,  millions  prepared  for  the  eve-  ning.  Tons  of  macaroni-and-  cheese  casseroles  baked  slowly  in  ovens,  hundreds  of  square  miles  of  tablecloth  were  smoothed  out,  and  an  estimated  45,000  women  discovered,  to  their  mild  sur-  prise,  unsightly  spots  on  glasses  and  dinnerware.  Newspapers  were  opened,  legs  were  crossed,  and  alcohol  was  consumed-enough  to  carry  Bismarck,  North  Dakota,  through  the  seven-  month  home-heating  season.  At  night,  [REDACTED]  becomes  a  study  in  contrasts  between  light  and  dark-  ness.  This  night  was  no  exception.  Street  lightsin  cities,  villages,  town-  ships  twinkled  in  the  cold  winter  air.  Neon  signs  flashed  their  potpourri  of  messages.  The  lights  in  houses  " b"cast  bright  rectangular  shapes  onto  snowy  lawns  and  sidewalks.  Car  head-  lights  made  fascinating  patterns,  deli-  cate  traceries  captured  by  hundreds  of  amateur  photographers  at  slow  shutter  speeds.  Traffic  lights  blinked  red  and  green,  as  did  the  lights  of  aircraft,  radio  and  television  towers,  police  cars  and  other  emergency  vehicles,  and  hun-  dreds  of  miles  of  unnoticed  Christmas  lights  remaining  on  trees  or  outlining  front  porches,  At  NBC  master  control  in  [REDACTED],  technical  difficulties  produced  a  momentary  blurring  of  John  Chancel-  lor,  prompting  17.5  million  persons  to  lean  forward  and  adjust  their  sets-an  outlay  of  energy  equivalent  to  4,000  barrels  of  crude  oil.  A  majority  of  556e6974656420537461746573ns  would  spend  at  least  part  of  the  evening  watching  television,  of  which  a  small  minority  (28  per  cent)  would  fall  asleep  while  doing  so.  Oth-  ers  looked  forward  to  movies,  plays,  ballets,  concerts,  or  intimate  dinner  parties,  for  which  women  sat  before  mirrors  making  expressive  faces  and  applying  cosmetics,  and  spent  an  accu-  mulated  national  total  of  almost  400  woman-years,  ora  lot  longer  than  the  Ming  Dynasty,  Meanwhile,  men  ran  a  Niagara  of  hot  water  into  bathtubs  and  showers  and  shaved  an  area  the  size  of  the  [REDACTED].  Of  the3.5  million  556e6974656420537461746573ns  who  went  &quot;out&quot;  for  the  evening,  many  had  a  good  time,  despite  the  dimly  remem-  bered  uneasiness  of  the  afternoon,  while  for  countless  others  it  was  &quot;O.K.&quot;  or  &quot;not  bad.&quot;  Very  few  experienced  real  bummers.  Those  who  did  included  Bu-  ford  Knapp,  who  was  publicly  berated  by  his  wife  for  not  sending  the  clams  back  to  the  kitchen.  She  said  there  was  dirt  in  them.  Forty-five  cultural  events  received  poor  reviews,  including  three  Beethoven  Sixth  Symphonies  (&quot;An  ex-  ercise  in  pointlessness,&quot;  &quot;A  leaden  sense  of  rhythm,&quot;  and  &quot;If  this  is  pastoral,  then  what  is  sheer  tedium?,&quot;  respec-  tively),  and  roughly  halfof  the  eve-  ning's  sporting  events  were  lost  by  one  team  or  the  other.  Winning  or  losing,  at  home  or  away,  most  556e6974656420537461746573ns  found  some  pleasure  before  midnight  and  retired  at  a  rea-  sonable  hour  to  sleep  for  slightly  less  than  eight  hours  (Tuesday  night  is  the  most  restful  night  in  the  country-Sat-  urday  is  the  least,  leading  Sunday  after-  noon  byonly  two  hours-although  urban  sleepers  do  slightly  better  on  Wednesday)  and  to  dream,  if  a  test  group  at  U.C.L.A.  was  indicative,  about  familiar  scenes  and  faces.  Not  that  there  weren't  disturbing  signs  to  upset  even  the  most  compla-  cent.  In  [REDACTED],  hours  after  the  market  had  closed,  the  Dow-Jones  industrial  average  dropped  three  points  unnoticed.  In  [REDACTED],  a  4-year-old  child  suddenly  spoke  in  her  sleep  words  of  dire  warning  to  her  parents  and  to  all  556e6974656420537461746573ns.  And  two  women  sitting  in  a  back  yard  in  Key  West,  [REDACTED],  ob-  served  a  large,  pipe-shaped  object  with  flashing  blue  lights  hover  and  then  land  50  feet  away,  beside  a  garage.  Two  persons  in  yellow  raincoats  emerged,  exposed  themselves  briefly,  got  back  in  the  craft,  and  flew  away.  The  craft  emitted  a  low  hum,  like  a  dial  tone.  The  persons  appeared  to  be  from  an-  other  planet  entirely.  If  all  was  not  well,  it  was  neverthe-  less  mostly  pretty  good,  on  balance.  Despite  its  problems,  the  nation  slipped  into  a  fundamentally  sound  sleep.  Many  556e6974656420537461746573ns  tossed  in  their  beds,  got  up  to  pace  the  floor,  took  aspirin,  were  troubled,  pondered  complex  mat-  ters,  stared  at  ceilings,  but  this  was  by  no  means  uncommon.  And  even  the  restless,  for  the  most  part,  slept.  From  the  vast  bedroom  suburbs  of  New  Jer-  sey  to  sleepy  river  towns  in  [REDACTED]  to  the  long-slumbering  natural  re-  sources  of  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED]  slept.  It  slept  because  it  was  tired.  Soon  it  was  midnight,  and  another  day  (and  an-  other  magazine  article)  was  over. "