 VHO  I  AM  AND  VHAT  |  BELIEVE  THovents  ox  My  Please  type  in  the  space  provided  below  a  brief  statement  of  those  prin-  ciples,  ideas,  goals  and  standards  of  con-  duct  in  your  life  that  have  helped  you  achieve  your  present  success  in  your  career  and  as  a  person  highly  regarded  by  others.  The  Editors  intend  to  select  from  among  these  statements  a  limited  num-  ber  for  publication  in  the  Thirty-Eighth  Edition  of  WHO'S  WHO  IN  AMERICA.  -Form  received  bya  W  ho's  W  ho  biogra-  phee.  like  show  business,  no  time  like  the  present,  and  nothing  like  a  dame.  Only  God  can  make  a  tree.  I  believe  that  the  iceman  cometh,  the  postman  always  rings  twice,  Kilroy  was  here,  and  nobody  but  nobody  under-  sells  Gimbels.  I  know  what  I  like.  I  would  rather  be  right  than  be  President.  I  would  rather  see  a  purple  cow  than  be  one.  You  can't  cheat  an  honest  man.  It  is  hard  for  an  empty  sack  to  stand  up-  right.  When  a  man  bites  a  dog,  that  is  news.  Remember  the  [REDACTED].  I  believe  that  fifty  million  French-  men  can't  be  wrong  and  that  it  is  not  worthwhile  to  go  around  the  world  to  count  the  cats  in  Zanzibar.  I  didn't  raise  my  boy  to  be  a  soldier.  Don't  take  any  wooden  nickels.  Don't  shoot  the  piano  player.  Don't  give  up  the  ship.  Don't  tread  on  me.  Hit  'em  where  they  ain't.  On  the  whole,  I'd  rather  be  in  [REDACTED].  I  am  convinced  that  prosperity  is  just  around  the  corner,  that  the  only  thing  we  have  to  fear  is  fear  itself,  that  this  generation  of  Americans  has  a  rendezvous  with  destiny,  and  that  any-  one  who  goes  to  a  psychiatrist  ought  to  have  his  head  examined.  If  it  doesn't  move,  pick  it  up.  To  produce  a  mighty  book,  you  must  choose  a  mighty  theme;  no  great  and  enduring  volume  can  ever  be  written  on  the  flea.  Keep  cool  with  Coolidge.  Somewhere  over  the  rainbow,  blue-  birds  fiv.  OP  Man  River  jes'  keeps  rollin'  along.  I'm  as  corny  as  [REDACTED]  in  August.  She's  your  tootsie-wootsie  in  the  good  old  summertime.  Put  up  or  shut  up.  Sticks  nix  hick  pix.  When  more  and  more  people  are  thrown  out  of  work,  unemployment  re-  sults.  