 b"WEINSTEIN  lay  under  the  covers,  staring  at  the  ceiling  in  a  de-  pressed  torpor.  Outside,  sheets  of  humid  air  rose  from  the  pavement  in  stifling  waves.  The  sound  of  traffic  was  deafening  at  this  hour,  and  in  ad-  dition  to  all  this  his  bed  was  on  fire.  Look  at  me,  he  thought.  Fifty  years  old.  Half  acentury.  Next  year,  I  will  be  fiftv-one.  Then  fifty-two.  Using  this  same  reasoning,  he  could  figure  out  his  age  as  much  as  five  years  in  the  future.  So  little  time  left,  he  thought,  and  so  much  to  accomplish.  For  one  thing,  he  wanted  to  learn  to  drive  a  car.  Adelman,  his  friend  who  used  to  play  dreidel  with  him  on  Rush  Street,  had  studied  driving  at  the  Sorbonne.  He  could  handle  a  car  beautifully  and  had  already  driven  many  places  by  himself.  Weinstein  had  made  a  few  at-  tempts  to  steer  his  father's  Chevy  but  kept  winding  up  on  the  sidewalk.  He  had  been  a  precocious  child.  An  intellectual.  At  twelve,  he  had  trans-  lated  the  poems  of  T.  S.  Eliot  into  English,  after  some  vandals  had  broken  into  the  library  and  translated  them  into  French.  And  as  if  his  high  [REDACTED]  did  not  isolate  him  enough,  he  suffered  un-  told  injustices  and  persecutions  because  of  his  religion,  mostly  from  his  parents.  True,  the  old  man  was  a  member  of  the  synagogue,  and  his  mother,  too,  but  they  could  never  accept  the  fact  that  their  son  was  Jewish.  &quot;How  did  it  happen?&quot;  his  fatherasked,  bewildered.  My  face  looks  [REDACTED],  Weinstein  thought  every  morning  as  he  shaved.  He  had  been  mistaken  several  times  for  Robert  Redford,  but  on  each  occasion  it  was  by  a  blind  person.  Then  there  was  Feinglass,  his  other  boyhood  friend:  A  Phi  Beta  Kappa.  A  labor  spy,  ratting  on  the  workers.  Then  a  convert  to  Marxism.  A  Communist  agitator.  Be-  trayed  by  the  Party,  he  went  to  Holly-  wood  and  became  the  offscreen  voice  of  a  famous  cartoon  mouse.  Ironic.  Weinstein  had  toyed  with  the  Com-  munists,  too.  To  impress  a  girl  at  Rut-  gers,  he  had  moved  to  [REDACTED]  and  joined  the  Red  Army.  When  he  called  her  for  a  second  date,  she  was  pinned  to  someone  else.  Still,  his  rank  of  ser-  geant  in  the  Russian  infantry  would  hurt  him  later  when  he  needed  a  se-  curity  clearance  in  order  to  get  the  free  appetizer  with  his  dinner  at  Long-  champs.  Also,  while  at  school  he  had  organized  some  laboratory  mice  and  led  them  in  a  strike  over  work  conditions.  Actually,  it  was  not  so  much  the  politics  as  the  poetry  of  Marxist  theory  that  got  him.  He  was  positive  that  collectiviza-  tion  could  work  if  everyone  would  learn  the  lyrics  to  &quot;Rag  Mop.&quot;  &quot;The  withering  away  of  the  state&quot;  was  a   phrase  that  had  stayed  with  him  ever  since  his  uncle's  nose  had  withered  away  in  Saks  Fifth  [REDACTED]  one  day.  What,  he  wondered,  can  be  learned  about  the  true  essence  of  social  revolu-  tion?  Only  that  it  should  never  be  at-  tempted  after  eating  Mexican  food.  The  Depression  shattered  Wein-  stein's  Uncle  Meyer,  who  kept  his  for-  tune  under  the  mattress  When  the  market  crashed,  the  government  called  in  all  mattresses,  and  Meyer  became  a  pauper  overnight.  All  that  was  left  for  him  was  to  jump  out  the  window,  but  he  lacked  the  nerve  and  sat  on  a  win-  dowsill  of  the  Flatiron  Building  from  1930  to  1937.  &quot;These  kids  with  their  pot  and  their  sex,&quot;  Uncle  Meyer  was  fond  of  say-  ing.  &quot;Do  they  know  what  itis  to  sit  on  a  windowsill  for  seven  years?  There  you  see  life!  Of  course,  everybody  looks  like  ants.  But  each  year  Tessie-  may  she  rest  in  peace-made  the  Seder  right  out  there  on  the  ledge.  The  fam-  ily  gathered  round  for  Passover.  Oy,  nephew!  What's  the  world  coming  to  when  they  have  a  bomb  that  can  kill  more  people  than  one  look  at  Max  Rifkin's  daughter?&quot;  Weinstein's  so-called  friends  had  all  knuckled  under  to  the  House  Un-  American  Activities  Committee.  Blot-  nick  was  turned  in  by  his  own  mother.  Sharpstein  was  turned  in  by  his  an-  swering  service.  Weinstein  had  been  called  by  the  committee  and  admitted  he  had  given  money  to  the  Russian  War  Relief,  and  then  added,  &quot;Oh,  yes,  I  bought  Stalin  a  dining-room  set.&quot;  He  refused  to  name  names  but  said  if  the  commit-  tee  insisted  he  would  give  the  heights  of  the  people  he  had  met  at  meetings.  In  the  end  he  panicked  and,  instead  of  taking  the  Fifth  Amendment,  took  the  Third,  which  enabled  him  to  buy  beer  in  Phil-  adelphia  on  Sunday.  WEINSTEIN  fin-  ished  shaving  and  got  into  the  shower.  He  lathered  himself,  while  steaming  water  splashed  down  his  bulky  back.  He  thought,  Here  I  am  at  some  fixed  point  in  time  and  space,  tak-  ing  a  shower.  I,  Isaac  Weinstein,  One  of  God's  creatures.  And  " b"then,  stepping  on  the  soap,  he  slid  across  the  floor  and  rammed  his  head  into  the  towel  rack.  It  had  been  a  bad  week.  The  previous  day,  he  had  got  a  bad  haircut  and  he  was  still  not  over  the  anxiety  it  had  caused  him.  At  first  the  barber  had  snipped  judiciously,  but  soon  Wein-  stein  realized  he  had  gone  too  far.  &quot;Put  some  back!&quot;  he  screamed  unreasonably.  &quot;I  can't,&quot;  the  barber  said.  &quot;It  won't  stick.&quot;  &quot;Well,  then  give  it  to  me,  Domi-  nic!  I  want  to  take  it  with  me!&quot;  &quot;Once  it's  on  the  floor  of  the  shop  it's  mine,  Mr.  Weinstein.&quot;  &quot;Like  hell!  I  want  my  hair!&quot;  He  blustered  and  raged,  and  finally  felt  guilty  and  left.  Goyim,  he  thought.  One  way  or  another,  they  get  you.  Now  he  emerged  from  the  hotel  and  walked  up  Eighth  [REDACTED].  Two  men  were  mugging  an  elderly  lady.  My  God,  thought  Weinstein,  time  was  when  one  person  could  handle  that  job.  Some  city.  Chaos  everyplace.  Kant  was  right:  The  mind  imposes  order.  It  also  tells  you  how  much  to  tip.  What  a  wonderful  thing,  to  be  conscious!  I  won-  der  what  the  people  in  New  Jersey  do.  He  was  on  his  way  to  see  Harriet  about  the  alimony  payments.  He  still  loved  Harriet,  even  though  while  they  were  married  she  had  systematically  at-  tempted  to  commit  adultery  with  all  the  &quot;P's  in  the  [REDACTED]  Telephone  Directory.  He  forgave  her.  But  he  should  have  suspected  something  when  his  best  friend  and  Harriet  took  a  house  in  [REDACTED]  together  for  three  years  without  telling  him  where  they  were.  He  didn't  want  to  see  it  -that  was  it.  His  sex  life  with  Harriet  had  stopped  early.  He  slept  with  her  once  on  the  night  they  first  met,  once  on  the  eve-  ning  of  the  first  moon  landing,  and  once  to  test  if  his  back  was  all  right  after  a  slipped  disc.  &quot;It's  no  damn  good  with  you,  Harriet,&quot;  he  used  to  complain.  &quot;You're  too  pure.  Every  time  I  have  an  urge  for  you  I  sublimate  it  by  plant-  ing  a  tree  in  [REDACTED].  You  remind  me  of  my  mother.&quot;  (Molly  Weinstein,  may  she  rest  in  peace,  who  slaved  for  him  and  made  the  best  stuffed  derma  in  [REDACTED]-a  secret  recipe  until  everyone  realized  she  was  putting  in  hashish.)  For  lovemaking,  Weinstein  needed  someone  quite  opposite.  Like  LuAnne,  who  made  sex  an  art.  The  only  trouble  was,  she  couldn't  count  to  twenty  without  taking  her  shoes  off.  He  once  tried  giving  her  a  book  on  existential,  ism,  but  she  ate  it.  Sexually,  Weinstein  had  always  felt  inadequate.  For  one  thing,  he  felt  short.  He  was  five-four  in  his  stocking  feet,  although  in  someone  else's  stocking  feet  he  could  be  as  tall  as  five-six.  Dr.  Klein,  his  analyst,  got  him  to  see  that  jumping  in  front  of  a  mov-  ing  train  was  more  hostile  than  self-  destructive  but  in  either  case  would  ruin  the  crease  in  his  pants.  Klein  was  his  third  analyst.  His  first  was  a  Jungian,  who  suggested  they  try  a  Ouija  board.  Before  Klein,  he  attended  &quot;group,&quot;  but  when  it  came  time  for  him  to  speak  he  got  dizzy  and  could  only  recite  the  names  of  all  the  planets.  His  problem  was  women,  and  he  knew  it.  He  was  im-  potent  with  any  woman  who  finished  college  with  higher  than  a  B-minus  average.  He  felt  most  at  home  with  graduates  of  typing  school,  although  if  the  woman  did  over  sixty  words  a  min-  ute  he  panicked  and  could  not  perform.  WEINSTEIN  rang  the  bell  to  Har-  riet's  apartment,  and  suddenly  she  was  standing  before  him.  Swelling  to  maculate  giraffe,  as  usual,  thought  Weinstein.  It  was  a  private  joke  that  neither  of  them  understood.  &quot;Hello,  Harriet,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Oh,  Ike,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You  needn't  be  so  damn  self-righteous.&quot;  She  was  right.  What  a  tactless  thing  to  have  said.  He  hated  himself  for  it.  &quot;How  are  the  kids,  Harriet?&quot;  &quot;We  never  hadany  kids,  Ike.&quot;  &quot;That's  why  I  thought  four  hun-  dred  dollars  a  week  was  a  lot  for  child  support.&quot;  She  bit  her  lip,  Weinstein  bit  his  lip.  Then  he  bit  her  lip.  &quot;Harriet,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;I  ...I'm  broke.  Egg  futures  are  down.&quot;  &quot;I  see.  And  can't  you  get  help  from  your  shikse?&quot;  &quot;'To  you,  any  girl  who's  not  Jewish  is  a  shiksa.&quot;  &quot;Canwe  forget  it?&quot;  Her  voice  was  choked  with  recrimination.  Weinstein  had  a  sudden  urge  to  kiss  her,  or,  if  not  her,  somebody.  &quot;Harriet,  where  did  we  go  wrong?&quot;  &quot;We  never  faced  reality.&quot;  &quot;It  wasn't  my  fault.  You  said  it  was  north.&quot;  &quot;Reality  is  north,  Ike.&quot;  &quot;No,  Harriet.  Empty  dreams  are  north.  Reality  is  west.  False  hopes  are  east,  and  I  think  [REDACTED]  is  south.&quot;  She  still  had  the  power  to  arouse  him.  He  reached  out  for  her,  but  she  moved  away  and  his  hand  came  to  rest  in  some  sour  cream.  &quot;Is  that  why  you  slept  with  your  analyst?&quot;  he  finally  blurted  out.  His  face  was  knotted  with  rage.  He  felt  like  fainting  but  couldn't  remember  the  proper  way  to  fall.  &quot;'That  was  therapy,&quot;  she  said  coldly.  &quot;According  to  Freud,  sex  is  the  royal  road  to  the  unconscious.&quot;  &quot;Freud  said  dreams  are  the  road  to  the  unconscious.&quot;  &quot;Sex,  dreams-you're  going  to  nit-  pick?&quot;  &quot;Goodbye,  Harriet.&quot;  It  was  no  use.  Rien  d  dire,  rien  a  faire.  Weinstein  left  and  walked  over  to  Union  Square.  Suddenly  hot  tears  burst  forth,  as  if  from  a  broken  dam.  Hot,  salty  tears  pent  up  for  ages  rushed  out  in  an  unabashed  wave  of  emotion.  The  problem  was,  they  were  coming  out  of  his  ears.  Look  at  this,  he  thought.  I  can't  even  ery  properly.  He  dabbed  his  ear  with  Kleenex  and  went  home."