 b"THE  Oya  people  is  the  bunch  that  lives  in  the  Oya  Valley,  as  the  neighbors  will  quickly  tell  you  if  you  go  looking  for  Oya  in  the  hills.  &quot;We  are  not  Oya!&quot;  the  neigh-  bors  shout  through  locked  screen  doors.  &quot;We  are  decent,  hardworking  people,  who  hardly  deserve  this.&quot;  By  &quot;this&quot;  they  mean  the  Oya  cus-  tom  of  going  visiting  and  remaining  behind  after  their  ride  has  left.  Ap-  parently,  Oya,  whose  name  means  &quot;The  Us,&quot;  do  not  distinguish  between  themselves  and  others,  and  anyone  they  meet  is  assumed  to  be  one  of  them,  or  one  of  &quot;The  Us,&quot;  and  therefore  in-  terested  in  their  comfort  and  anxious  to  see  that  they  have  enough  to  eat.  But  if  that  person  fails  to  show  inter-  est,  Oya  don't  become  angry.  They  wait,  Soon  enough,  they  believe,  they'll  be  asked  to  stay.  To  the  visiting  scholar  with  a  keen  interest  in  Oya  ways*  and  plenty  of  money  to  pay  for  doughnuts,  this  facet  of  Oya  life  seems  harmless  and  even  gentle,  but  to  the  neighbors,  who  have  their  own  row  to  hoe,  it  is  known  as  &quot;the  Oya  problem.&quot;  This  refers  to  the  difficulty  of  conversing  with  Oya.  An  Oya  converses  by  means  of  questions,  if  at  all.  His  opening  remark  might  be  &quot;That's  quite  the  deal,  isn't  it?&quot;  if  his  host  is  busy,  or  &quot;Not  too  busy  today,  huh?&quot;  if  the  host  is  relax-  ing.  Next,  he  might  well  ask,  &quot;What  do  you  have  in  your  hand  there?  A  sharp  stick?,&quot;  for  by  this  time  the  host  has  realized  that  he  is  in  for  a  long  afternoon  unless  he  takes  stern  meas-  ures.  He  must  at  all  costs  drive  the  Oya  off  before  he  is  asked,  &quot;What  is  the  matter?  Why  don't  you  like  me?&quot;  It's  impossible  to  answer  that  last  question  in  a  way  that  will  satisfy  an  Oya.  Because  he  doesn't  dislike  him-  self,  hostility  only  makes  him  curious;  he  wants  to  know  what  he  can  do  to  make  the  host  feel  better,  such  as  putting  an  arm  around  him.  Right  here  is  where  most  personal  Oya  in  juries  occur-here  and,  back  home,  falling  out  of  bed.  *Despite  their  keen  interest,  scholars  have  learned  practically  nothing  about  the  Oya  (pro-  nounced  &quot;O-yah&quot;),  because  of  the  Oya's  equal-  ly  keen  interest  in  them.  Whenever  a  research  team  arrives  in  the  valley,  normal  activity  (if  there  is  such  a  thing)  ceases  as  the  Oya  gather  aroundand  watch  intently.  If  the  scholars  ask,  &quot;But  what  do  you  do?,&quot;  the  answer  is  &quot;What  would  you  like  to  do?,&quot;  or  &quot;It's  all  right,  we  can  always  do  that  later.&quot;  Occasionally,  the  scholars  amuse  their  audience  with  a  short  talk.  which  seems  to  be  much  appreciated.  But  the  Oya  never  seem  to  get  around  to  just  being  themselves.  Some  Oya,  apparently  anxious  to  please  the  visitors,  may  sit  on  a  stump  engrossed  in  thought,  but  only  a  few,  and  never  for  longer  than  a  few  hours  Why  are  Oya  disliked  so  intensely  by  their  neighbors?  'The  neighbors,  who  are  godly  persons,  have  tried  to  find  the  answer  to  this  one  themselves.  Prayer  meetings  are  held  frequently  to  discover  the  Lord's  willin  regard  to  the  Oya  problem.  It  is  a  hard  mat-  ter.  Clearly,  the  guiding  principle  should  be  &quot;Love  thy  Oya  as  thyself,&quot;  but  how  canone  do  that,  many  ask,  when  Oya  behave  as  if  they  are  thy-  self?  And  such,  it  seems,  is  the  case.  An  Oya  is  quite  capable  of  showing  up  on  Tuesdaymorning  and  staying  until  Sunday  night,  sitting  in  your  chair,  walking  beside  you  through  the  gar-  den,  eating  at  your  table,  and  not  say-  ing  anything  you'd  be  able  to  recall  a  few  minutes  later.  It  is  said  that  the  Oya  believes  that  since  you  and  he  are  both  of  &quot;'The  Us,&quot;  it  is  the  same  as  if  you  were  alone.  And  some  neighbors  say  that  during  an  Oya  visit  they  have  come  to  believe  this,  too-that  they  are  talking  to  themselves.  It  is  hard  to  say  definitely  what  Oya  believe,  however.  One  can  only  make  suppositions,  based  on  statements  of  our  own  that  no  Oya  has  seen  fit  to  contra-  dict  (e.g.,  &quot;You  don't  seem  to  be  in  a  big  rush  to  leave&quot;).  Many  younger  people  in  the  neighborhood  have  come  to  believe  that  Oya  have  re@xamined  the  concept  of  individuality  and  found  it  wanting,  that  Oya  have  attained  loss  of  self.  No  Oya  has  disagreed  with  this.  It  may  be  true  that  the  Oya  have  much  to  teach  us,  but,  unless  we  are  mistaken,  they  have  not  done  so  up  to  the  present.  They  seem  to  feel  itis  all  the  same  to  them  one  way  or  the  other.  After  a  visit  to  an  Oya  home,  one  " b"comes  away  with  the  feeling  they  may  be  right.  HE  Oya  personality  has  been  de-  scribed  in  conflicting  terms.  One  aspect  of  itis  bliss.  Oya  seem  to  have  a  knack  for  being  &quot;knocked  out&quot;  by  or-  dinary  phenomena,  such  as  a  faucet  dripping,  motes  of  dust  in  a  beam  of  light,  or  the  sound  of  their  own  throats  clearing.  It  is  enough  for  them  if  an  afternoon  brings  a  light  breeze  to  stir  the  leaves.  This  attribute  may  help  to  explain  their  inability  to  socialize.  When  spoken  to  by  another,  an  Oya  is  fascinated  by  the  speaker's  lips.  The  other  essential  Oya  character-  istic  is  &quot;politeness.&quot;  An  unspoken  Oya  rule  is  &quot;Let's  wait  and  see  what  ev-  eryone  wants  to  do.&quot;  The  result  is  that  Oya  spend  hours  waiting,  lose  track  of  time,  and  fall  asleep  early,  missing  their  favorite  programs.  Sleep  is  an  ever-present  danger,  for  a  strange  facet  of  Oya  life  is  the  high  number  of  strenuous  sleepers.  All  Oya  thrash  about  to  some  extent  (some  havebeen  known  to  rise  from  their  beds  and  strip  wallpaper),  but  many  must  actually  be  tied  down,  lest  they  get  up  in  their  sleep  and  walk  away.  The  sleeper's  family  is  reluctant  to  re-  strain  him,  or  uses  only  a  very  light  string,  and  the  resulting  departures  account  for  the  diminishing  Oya  pop-  ulation  in  the  valley.  Someday,  it  seems,  there  will  be  no  Oya  left  here.  This  prospect  neither  saddens  nor  pleases  them.  It  seems  that  they  can-  not  conceive  of  a  place  with  no  Oya,  and  they  have  made  no  plans  to  assure  that  anybody  stays  around.  Departed  Oya,  Para.  12  Neighbors  attitudes  toward  Oya,  1-5,  7-8  religious  seeking,  6  Oya  beliefs  of,  2,5,  8-9,  12  bliss  of,  10  danger  to,  4,  12  definition  of,  2  and  discrimination,  2,  7  habits  and  customs,  2,  4-5,  7,  10-12  and  politeness,  11-12  population,  12  and  programs,  11  and  sameness,  7,  9  satisfaction  of,  5,  10,  12  self-image,  5,  7-8  sense  of  time,  7,  11  and  silence,  7-8,11  and  sleep,  11-12 "