 b"MONDAY  Drinks  here.  Picasso,  Colette,  the  inevitable  Cocteau,  Gide,  Val\xc3\xa9ry,  Ra-  vel,  and  Larry.  Chitchat.  God,  how  absolutely  dull  the  Great  can  be!  I  know  at  least  a  hundred  friends  who  would  have  given  their  eyeteeth  just  to  have  had  a  glimpse  of  some  of  them,  and  there  I  was  bored,  incredible  lassi-  tude,  stymied.  Is  it  me?  Is  it  them?  Think  latter.  Happened  to  glance  in  mirror  before  going  to  bed.  Am  more  beautiful  than  ever.  Turspay  Horrible.  After  organ  lesson  at  C's,  he  burst  into  tears  and  confessed  that  he  loved  me.  Was  mad  about  me,  is  how  heput  it.  I  was  embarrassed.  I  respect  him,  he  is  a  great  mafitre  and  all  that,  but  how  could  I  reciprocate  when  I,  myself,  am  so  involved  with  L?  I  tried  to  explain.  He  said  he  thought  it  would  be  better  if  we  discontinued  our  lessons.  How  am  I  ever  going  to  learn  to  play  the  organ?  Came  home  upset.  Finished  Bercarolles,  Gigue,  Danse  Fantastique,  and  Cantata.  Writing  bet-  ter  than  ever.  Careful  of  self-congrat-  ulations.  So  somebody  said.  John  Donne?  Fresh  mushrooms.  Delicious.  WronEspay  Drunk  at  the  dentist's.  He  removed  a  molar,  and  cried  when  I  said  it  hurt.  Tres  gentil.  I  think  he  has  some  feel-  ing  for  me.  The  sky  was  like  a  red  blister  over  the  [REDACTED].  Streaks  of  car-  mine  suffused  the  horizon.  Sometimes  I  wonder  if  I  shouldn't  have  been  a  writer.  Drunk  as  I  was,  I  caught  a  glimpse  of  myself  in  a  bakery  window.  No  wonder  so  many  people  love  me!  THursoay  Arletty  said  something  profound  at  lunch.  &quot;The  trouble  with  homosexuals  is  that  they  like  men.&quot;  Shesometimes  gets  to  the  heart  of  the  matter  with  all  her  superficiality,  She  is  leaving  M.  Talked  and  talked  about  it.  I  found  my  attention  wandering,  and  kept  see-  ing  the  unfinished  pages  ofthe  Sym-  phony.  It  is  a  great  hymn  to  world  peace,  a  kind  of  apotheosis  of  calmness,  though  it  has  a  few  fast  sections.  Drank  a  lot,  and  can't  remember  much  after  lunch.  Woke  up  in  Bois.  Think  some-  thing  happened.  But  what?  To  relieve  depression,  dyed  my  hair  again.  Must  say  it  looks  ravishing.  Ravissant.  Frimay  Calls  from  Mauriacand  Claudel.  Why  don't  they  leave  me  alone?  Fripay,  LatER  Larry  back  from  Avignon.  Seems  changed.  Felt  vague  feeling  of  disgust.  To  camouflage,  worked  all  day  and  finished  Pavane,  Song  Cycles,  and  Sonata.  Dedicated  latter-last?  -to  Princesse  de  N.  She  sent  me  a  Russian  egg  for  my  name  day.  How  know!  Malraux,  Auric,  Poulenc,  and  Milhaud  dropped  by.  Saturpay  Stravinsky  angry  with  me,  he  said  overphone.  I  must  never  stop  work-  ing,  working.  What  about  sex?  L  has  left.  Should  I  call  C?  Thinking  of  it.  Press  clippings  arrived.  Is  there  any  other  composer  under  seventeen  whose  works  are  being  played  in  every  capi-  tal  of  Asia?  Matisse  said,  jokingly  at  lunch,  that  I  was  too  beautiful  to  live.  Genius  is  not  a  gift;  it  is  a  loan.  Saturpay,  Later  At  state  banquet  for  de  Gaulle,  mis-  behaved.  Slapped  his  wife  in  face  during  coffee.  Drunk.  Terribly  de-  pressed,  but  am  I  not  also  not  a  little  proud?  Contrite  but  haughty,  sorry  but  pleased?  Can't  remember  issue.  Some-  thing  about  Monteverdi?  Sent  her  a  dozen  white  roses  as  apology.  The  Princesse  says  I  should  get  out  of  town  for  a  while.  I  WILL  NOT  RUN  Away! C  back.  We  are  both  more  gorgeous  than  ever.  Finished  War  and  Peace.  A  good  book.  Sunpay  Pneumatique  from  Mallarm\xc3\xa9.  I  will  not  answer.  C  and  I  had  pique-nique.  Fell  asleep  on  Seine  bank.  Dream:  Mother  in  hippopotamus  cage,  crying.  She  said,  &quot;If  music  be  the  feast  ...&quot;  and  then  gobbled  up  by  crowd  of  angry  deer.  What  mean?  Shaken.  C  bought  me  drink  at  Deux  Magots.  Sweet.  Told  me  he  thought  there  had  never  been  a  handsomer  man  placed  on  this  earth.  Forced  to  agree,  after  catching  tiny  glimpse  of  myself  in  caf\xc3\xa9  window.  How  often  are  genius  and  beauty  united?  'They  will  hate  me  when  they  read  this  diary,  but  I  tell  the  truth.  How  many  can  say  as  much?  Monpay  A  name  even  I  cannot  mention.  ...  And  he  wants  me  to  spend  the  summer  in  Africa  with  him!  C  angry.  Finished  Concerto  Grosso  and  Hymn  to  the  Moon,  for  female  voices.  Something  new,  a  kind  of  rough  susurration,  here  and  there,  a  darkening  of  strings.  It  is  raining.  Sometimes  I  think  we  are  more  ourselves  in  wet  weather  than  in  dry.  Bought  linen  hat.  Turspay  Gertrude,  Alice,  James,  Joyce,  Henry  Green,  [REDACTED]  Woolf,  Eliot, " b"Laforgue,  Mallarm\xc3\xa9  (all  is  forgiven!  ),  Rimbaud's  nephew,  Claudel's  niece,  Mistinguett,  Nadia,  Marais,  Nijin-  ska,  Gabin,  and  the  usual  for  drinks.  I  did  it  with  Y  in  the  pantry  while  the  party  was  going  on!  Ashamed  but  exhilarated.  I  think  if  THEY  knew  they  would  have  approved.  Fin-  ished  Sixty  Piano  Pieces  for  Young  Fingers.  Potboiler.  But  one  has  to  live!  WrEpnEspay  Snow.  Hideous  hangover,  Will  never  drink  again.  Deli  dinner  with  Henry  Miller.  T  raurspay  Half  the  Op\xc3\xa9ra-Comique  seems  to  have  fallen  in  love  with  me.  I  cannot  stand  any  more  importuning.  Will  go  to  Africa,  How  to  break  with  C?  Si-  mone  de  Beauvoir,  Simone  Signoret,  Simone  Weil,  and  Simone  Simon  for  drinks.  They  didn't  get  it!  Fripay  C  left,  Am  bruised  but  elated.  Den-  tist.  I  was  right.  I  wonder  if  he'll  dare  send  me  a  bill.  Now,  I  mean.  Tea  with  Anais.  Enchantant.  SatuUrDAYy  Ren\xc3\xa9  Char  and  Dior  for  lunch,  In-  teresting.  Clothes  are  the  camouflage  ofthe  soul.  Leave  for  Africa  with  X  tomorrow.  Had  fifty  tiny  Martinis.  Nothing  happened.  Sunpay  Barrault,  Braque,  Seurat,  Mayakov-  ski,  Honegger,  and  Ren\xc3\xa9  Clair  saw  us  off.  Very  gala.  I  think  I  am  really  in  love  for  the  first  time.  I  must  say  I  looked  marvellous.  Many  comments.  Wore  green  yachting  cap  and  cinna-  mon  plus  fours.  Happy.  WrepnEspary  Dakar:  Tangled  in  mosquito  netting.  Getting  nowhere  with  CUhansons  d  Afrique.  Saturpay  Back  in  [REDACTED].  God,  what  a  foolI've  been!  Someday  I  will  write  down  the  whole  hideous,  unbelievable  story.  Not  now.  Not  when  I  am  so  close  to  it.  But  I  will  forget  nothing.  Leav-  ing  tonight  for  Princesse  de  N's  coun-  try  place.  Green  trees,  green  leaves!  The  piercing  but  purifying  wind  of  Provence!  Or  isit  Normandy?  Packed  all  afternoon.  Long  bath,  many  thoughts.  Proust  called.  "