 b"BOBBY  Bison  is  bearish.  Will  Bob-by  Bison  continue  to  be  bear-  ish?  In  the  current  issue  of  the  Newsletter,  Bobby  Bison  says  that  &quot;In-  dicators  indicate  accelerating  clumps.&quot;  BOBBY  BISON  HAS  BEEN  RIGHT  IN  THE  PAST!  IT  woOULD  BE  FOOLISH  TO  IG-  NORE  THAT  FACT.  Last  year  Bobby  Bison  successfully  predicted  the  carpet  glut.  Bobby  Bison  predicted  the  unprecedented  drop  in  urban  trimmings.  Bobby  Bison  walked  out  on  opening  night.  whar  pos  BOBBY  BIsON  SAY  NOW?  Bobby  Bison  is  bearish.  Or  is  he?  Bobby  Bison  points  out  that  many  stocks  are  now  selling  at  tiny,  tiny  multiples  of  their  nutritional  value.  Bobby  Bison  points  out  that  some  stock  is  selling  for  less  money  than  is  kept  in  the  average  petty-cash  drawer.  Among  other &quot;undervalued&quot;  stocks  Bobby  Bison  offers  for  consideration  in  the  Newsletter  are:  American  Biological  Cornell  Cheese  Multipromo  Stores  Debonair  Brands  BeNeLux  Pumpco  Pretty  Paper  Of  course,  Bobby  Bison  doesn't  nec-  essarily  lke  these  stocks.  Not  by  a  long  shot.  In  point  of  fact,  Bobby  Bison  loathes  all  stocks.  That  is  why  the  Bobby  Bison  publications  (the  month-  ly  Newletter  and  the  yearly  Trend-  Leaf)  are  so  important  to  the  financial  community.  The  Bobby  Bison  ap-  proach  provides  a  needed  counterbal-  ance  to  conventional  Wall  Street  wis-  dom.  Whereas  other  newsletters  offer  &quot;buy-sell-hold&quot;  advice,  Bobby  Bison  says,  &quot;Forget  it.&quot;  Time  and  again,  issue  after  issue,  stock  after  stock,  Bob-  by  Bison  says,  &quot;Forget  it.&quot;  Harsh  ad-  vice?  Perhaps.  But  consider  this:  In  1971,  when  others  were  promoting  &quot;growth  stocks,&quot;  Bobby  Bison  said,  &quot;Forget  it.  Dump  them.  Hold  on  to  your  cufflinks.&quot;  Fortunes  were  made  because  of  that  advice,  and  other  for-  tunes  lost.  Dors  BorBy  BisonSTILL  PREDICT  a  Monetary  SysrEm  BasED  on  CUrF-  LINKs?  N  the  1975  Trend-Leaf,  Bobby  Bi-  son  explains  why  he  eschews  cur-  rency  of  any  kind  and  why  he  says  that  &quot;It's  all  over  but  the  hoarding.&quot;  Bobby  Bison  prophesies  ragged  lawns,  scalp-  er's  prices,  uninvited  guests,  unwel-  come  snares,  and  double-digit  profu-  sions  but  concludes  that  the  shrewd  investor  (one  subscribing  to  the  Bobby  Bison  publications)  can  still  turn  a  tidy  profit  if  he  keeps  a  balanced  stud  box  and  a  loyal  tenantry.  Wurcn  Bom:By  Bmon  PUBLICATION  Is  Ricut  ror  MB?  HE  Bobby  Bison  Newsletter  is  a  nonrecurring  front-loading  ancil-  lary  for  businessmen  and  serious  in-  vestors.  It  includes  specific  sell-dump-  shred  information  on  a  broad  range  of  stocks,  is  published  monthly,  and  costs  seven  hundred  and  fifty  dollars  a  year.  The  yearly  Trend-Leaf  is  a  five-  hundred-page  reference  work  detailing  broad-view  gluts  and  ballpark  down-  ages,  and  is  available  for  seven  hundred  and  fifty  dollars.  Is  Bossy  Bron  SEr1ous?  POSSIBLY.  Of  course,  Bobby  Bison  might  be  having  a  vicious  private  joke  at  your  expense.  This  is  why  Bobby  Bison  publishes  his  Secret  File  Key.  The  Secret  File  Key,  available  monthly  at  one  thousand  dollars  an  issue--or  ten  thousand  dollars  a  year-  tells  subscribers  which  parts  of  the  Newsletter  and  the  yearly  Trend-Leaf  they  may  be  safein  taking  seriously.  Last  year,  for  instance,  purchasers  of  the  Secret  File  Key  learned  months  ahead  of  time  that  a  piece  of  &quot;invest-  ment  advice&quot;  to  be  published  in  the  Newsletter  was  just  a  malicious  prank.  The  money  saved  by  Secret  File  Key  subscribers  who  knew  not  to  take  Mr.  Bison  seriously  in  this  instance  more  than  paid  for  their  subscription  to  the  Secret  File  Key.     Yes,  please,  Mr.  Bison,  consider  my  application  to:  Monthly  Newsletter  Yearly  Trend-Leaf  Secret  File  Key  Name  Address  Thank  you,  Mr.  Bison,  and  God  Bless.  "