 b"FIRST,  she  wrote  me  a  long  let-ter  full  of  praise.  Among  other  things,  she  said  that  my  books  had  helped  her  &quot;find&quot;  herself.  Then  she  called  and  arranged  a  meeting.  Soon  afterward,  she  called  again,  since  it  turned  out  she  already  had  an  en-  gagement  that  day,  and  she  proposed  another.  Two  days  later,  a  long  tele-  gram  came.  It  seemed  that  she  would  be  visiting  a  paralyzed  aunt  on  the  new  meeting  day.  I  had  never  re-  ceived  such  a  long  telegram,  with  such  fancy  English  words.  A  call  followed,  and  we  settled  on  a  new  date.  During  an  earlier  telephone  conversation  I  had  mentioned  that  I  admired  Thomas  Hardy.  In  a  few  days  a  messenger  brought  a  luxuriously  bound  set  of  Thomas  Hardy's  works.  My  admirer's  name  was  Elizabeth  Abigail  de  Sol-  lar-a  remarkable  name  for  a  woman  whose  mother,  she  told  me,  came  from  the  Polish  town  of  Klendev,  the  daughter  of  the  local  rabbi.  On  the  day  ofthe  visit  I  cleaned  my  apartment  and  put  all  my  manuscripts  and  unanswered  letters  in  the  laundry  hamper.  My  guest  was  due  at  eleven.  At  twenty-five  past  eleven  the  phone  rang  and  Elizabeth  Abigail  de  Sollar  shrieked,  &quot;You  gave  me  a  phony  ad-  dress!  There  is  no  such  building!&quot;  It  seemed  she  had  mistaken  East  Side  for  West.  I  now  told  her  precisely  how  to  find  me.  Once  she  got  to  my  street  on  the  West  Side,  she  should  enter  a  gate  bearing  the  number  she  had.  The  gate  opened  onto  a  courtyard.  There  she  would  find  an  entrancewith  a  differ-  ent  number,  which  I  gave  her,  and  I  explained  that  I  lived  on  the  eleventh foor.  The  passenger  elevator  happened  not  tobe  working  and  she  would  have  to  use  the  service  elevator.  Elizabeth  Abigail  de  Sollar  repeated  all  my  direc-  tions  and  tried  to  find  apencil  and  a  notebook  in  her  handbag  to  write  them  down,  but  at  that  moment  the  operator  demanded  a  nickel.  Elizabeth  Abigail  de  Sollar  didn't  have  a  nickel,  and  breathlessly  she  uttered  the  number  of  the  phone  booth  from  which  she  was  calling.  I  called  her  at  once,  but  no  one  answered.  I  must  have  dialled  the  wrong  number.  I  picked  up  a  book  and  began  to  read  from  where  I  opened  it  in  the  middle.  Since  she  had  my  address  and  phone  number,  she  would  show  up  sooner  or  later.  I  didn't  manage  to  get  to  the  end  of  the  para-  graph  when  the  telephone  rang.  I  picked  up  the  receiver  and  heard  a  man  cough,  stammer,  and  clear  his  throat.  After  a  while  he  regained  his  voice  and  said,  &quot;My  name  is  Oliver  Leslie  de  Sollar.  May  I  speak  to  my  wife?&quot;  &quot;Your  wife  made  a  mistake  and  went  to  a  wrong  address.  She  should  be  here  soon.&quot;  &quot;Excuse  me  for  disturbing  you,  but  our  child  has  suddenly  got  sick.  She  started  coughing  violently  and  chok-  ing,  and  I  don't  know  what  to  do.  She  suffers  from  asthma.  Elizabeth  has  drops  for  these  emergencies,  but  I  can't  find  them.  I'm  distraught.&quot;  &quot;Call  a  doctor!  Call  an  ambu-  lance!&quot;  I  shouted  intothe  mouthpiece.  &quot;Our  doctor  isn't  in  his  office.  One  second,  excuse  me    I  waited  a  few  minutes,  but  Oliver  Leslie  de  Sollar  didn't  come  back  and  I  hung  up  the  receiver.  &quot;That's  what  happens  when  you  deal  with  people-  right  away  complications  arise,&quot;  I  said  to  myself.  &quot;The  deed  itself  is  a  [REDACTED];  I  mentally  quoted  an  Indian  sacred  book-but  which  one?  Was  it  the  Bhagavad  Gita  or  the  Dharmapada?  If  the  child  choked  to  death,  God  forbid,  I  would  be  indirectly  responsible.  My  doorbell  rang  in  a  long  and  in-  sistent  summons.  I  hurried  to  open  it  and  saw  a  young  woman  with  blond  hair  falling  to  her  shoulders,  a  straw  hat,  with  flowers  and  cherries,  of  the  kind  worn  when  I  was  still  a  cheder  boy,  a  white  blouse  with  lace  at  the  neckline  and  sleeves,  a  black  embroi-  dered  skirt,  and  buttoned  shoes.  Al-  though  it  was  sunny  outside,  she  car-  ried  an  umbrella  with  ribbons  and  bows-all  in  all,  a  photograph  come  to  life  from  an  album.  Before  she  could  even  close  the  door  behind  her,  I  said,  &quot;Your  husband  just  called.  I  don't  wish  to  alarm  you,but  your  child  is  having  an  attack  of  asthma  and  your  husband  can't  get  a  doctor.  He  wants  to  know  where  the  drops  are.&quot;  I  was  sure  my  visitor  would  dash  to  the  telephone,  which  stood  on  a  table  in  the  hall,  but  instead  she  measured  me  with  her  eyes  from  head  to  toe,  then  back  again,  while  a  sweet  smile  spread  across  her  face.  &quot;Yes,  it's  you!&quot;  She  held  out  a  hand  in  a  white  glove  reach-  ing  to  the  elbow  and  presented  me  with  a  package  wrapped  in  shiny  black  paper  and  tied  in  a  red  ribbon.  &quot;Don't  be  concerned,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;He  does  this  every  time  I  go  somewhere.  He  can't  stand  my  leaving  the  house.  It's  pure  hysteria.&quot;  &quot;What  about  the  child?&quot;  &quot;Bibi  is  as  stubborn  as  her  father.  She  doesn't  want  to  let  me  out  of  the  house,  either.  She's  his  child  from  a  former     wife.&quot;  &quot;Please  come  in.  Thank  you  for  the  present.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  you  filled  a  gap  in  my  life.  I've  al-  ways  been  a  stranger  to  myself.  By  chance  I  discovered  one  of  your  novels  in  abookstore  and  from  then  on  I've  read  everything  you've  written.  I  believe  I've  told  you  that  I'm  the  Klendev  rabbi's  grand-  child.  That's  on  my  mother's  side.  On  my  father's  side  I  stem  from  adventurers.&quot;  She  followed  me  into  the  living  room.  She  was  short  and  slim,      " b"with  a  smooth,  white  skin  seldom  seen  in  adults.  Her  eyes  were  pale  blue  tinged  with  yellow,  and  somewhat  squinty.  Her  nose  was  narrow  and  on  the  long  side,  her  lips  thin,  her  chin  receding  and  pointed.  She  had  on  no  cosmetics.  Usually  I  form  a  concept  of  a  person  from  the  face  he  presents,  but  I  couldn't  form  a  clear  one  of  this  young  woman.  Not  healthy,  I  thought:  sensitive,  aristocratic.  Her  Eng-  lish  seemed  to  me  not  556e6974656420537461746573n  but  foreign.  As  I  chatted  with  her  and  asked  her  to  have  a  seat  on  the  sofa,  I  un-  wrapped  the  package  and  took  out  a  Ouija  board  with  a  planchette,  obviously  handmade,  of  costly  wood  and  edged  in  bone.  She  said,  &quot;I  gather  from  your  stories  that  you're  interested  in  the  occult,  and  I  hope  this  is  a  fitting  gift.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  you  give  me  too  many  gifts.&quot;  &quot;You've  earned  them  all.&quot;  I  asked  her  questions,  and  she  re-  sponded  willingly.  Her  father  was  a  retired  lawyer.  He  was  separated  from  Elizabeth's  mother  and  was  living  with  another  woman  in  [REDACTED].  The  mother  suffered  from  rheumatism  and  had  moved  to  [REDACTED].  She  had  a  friend  there,  an  old  man  of  eighty.  Elizabeth  Abigail  had  met  her  husband  in  college.  He  had  been  her  philosophy  professor.  He  was  also  an  amateur  as-  tronomer  and  used  to  sit  up  with  her  half  the  night  at  the  observatory  study-  ing  the  stars.  A  Jew?  No,  Oliver  Les-  lie  was  a  Christian,  born  in  England  but  descended  from  Basques.  Two  years  after  she  married  him  he  became  sick,  fell  into  a  chronic  depression,  quit  his  job,  and  settled  in  a  house  a  few  miles  from  Croton-on-Hudson.  He  had  isolated  himself  completely  from  people.  He  was  writing  a  book  on  astrology  and  numerology.  Elizabeth  Abigail  smiled  the  smile  of  those  who  have  long  since  discovered  the  vanity  of  all  human  en-  deavors.  At  times  her  eyes  grew  melan-  choly  and  even  frightened.  I  asked  her  what  shedid  in  that  house  in  Croton-on-Hudson  and  she  re-  plied,  &quot;I  go  crazy.  Leslie  doesn't  speak  for  days  or  weeks  at  a  time  except  to  Bibi.  He  tutors  her-she  doesn't  go  to    school.  We  do  not  live  as  man  and  wife.  For  me,  books  have  become  the  essence  of  my  being.  When  I  find  a  book  that  speaks  to  me,  this  is  a  great  event  in  my  life.  That's  why-&quot;  &quot;Who  takes  care  of  the  household?&quot;  &quot;No  one,  really.  We  have  a  neigh-  bor,  an  ex-farmer  who  left  his  family,  and  he  brings  us  food  from  the  super-  market.  At  times  he  cooks  for  us,  too.  A  simple  man,  but  in  his  own  fashion  a  philosopher.  He  is  also  our  chauffeur.  Leslie  can't  drive  the  car  anymore.  Our  house  stands  on  a  hill  that's  awfully  slippery,  not  only  in  winter  but  when-  ever  it  rains.&quot;   My  visitor  grew  silent.  I  was  already  accustomed  to  the  fact  that  many  of  those  who  wrote  me  or  came  tosee  me  were  eccentrics-odd,  lost  souls.  Eliza-  beth  Abigail  happened  to  resemble  my  sister  slightly.  Since  she  came  from  Klendevy  and  was  a  rabbi's  grandchild,  she  might  have  been  my  relative.  Klen-  dev  isn't  far  from  the  towns  where  generations  of  my  ancestors  lived.  I  asked,  &quot;How  is  it  that  Bibi  is  with  her  father,  not  her  mother?&quot;  Elizabeth  replied,  &quot;The  committed  suicide.&quot;  mother  THE  telephone  rang  and  I  heard  the  same  stammering  and  throat  clearing  I  had  heard  earlier.  I  im-  mediately  called  Elizabeth,  who  ap-  proached  slowly  and  with  the  reluc-  tance  of  one  who  knows  what's  com-ing.  I  heard  her  tell  her  husband  where  the  drops  were  and  order  him  sharply  not  to  annoy  her  again.  He  spoke  at  length  and  she  responded  with  an  occa-  sional  brief  phrase.  &quot;What?  Well,  no.&quot;  Finally  she  said,  &quot;That  I  don't  know,&quot;  in  a  tone  of  impatience.  She  came  back  into  the  room  and  resumed  her  seat  on  the  sofa.  &quot;It's  become  a  system  with  them-  the  moment  I  go  somewhere,  Bibi  gets  these  chest  spasms  and  her  father  calls  to  alarm  me.  He  can  never  find  the  drops,  which  don't  help  in  any  case,  be-  cause  her  asthma  is  deliberately  brought  on  by  him.  This  time  I  didn't  even  tell  him  where  I  was  going,  but  he  eaves-  drops  on  me.  I  wanted  to  ask  you  a  number  of  questions,  but  he  has  driven  them  from  my  mind.  Yes,  where  in  heaven's  name  is  this  Klendev?  I  couldn't  find  it  on  any  map.&quot;  &quot;It's  a  village  in  the  Lublin  area.&quot;  &quot;Were  you  ever  there?&quot;  &quot;It  just  so  happens  that  I  was.  I  had  left  home  and  someone  recommended  me  for  a  teaching  position  there.  I  gave  a  single  lesson,  and  the  school  authori-  ties  and  I  agreed  at  once  that  I  am  no  teacher.  The  very  next  day  I  left.&quot;  &quot;When  was  this?&quot;  &quot;In  the  twenties.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  my  grandfather  was  no  longer  living  then.  He  died  in  1913.&quot;  Although  what  my  visitor  had  to  say  held  no  special  interest  for  me,  I  lis-  tened  closely.  It  was  hard  for  me  to  " b"believe  that  only  one  generation  sepa-  rated  her  and  the  Klendev  rabbi,  his  milieu,  and  his  way  of  life.  Her  face  had  in  a  mysterious  fashion  molded  it-  self  to  that  of  the  Anglo-Saxons  whose  culture  she  had  absorbed.  I  detected  within  her  traces  of  other  lands,  other  climates.  Could  it  be  that  Lysenko  was  right  after  all?  The  clock  showed  twelve-thirty  and  I  invited  my  guest  to  go  downstairs  with  me  for  lunch.  She  said  that  she  didn't  eat  lunch.  The  most  she  might  have  was  some  tea,  but  if  I  wanted  to  have  lunch,  she'd  go  along  with  me.  After  a  while  we  went  into  the  kitchen  and  I  brewed  tea.  I  put  cookies  on  a  plate  for  her  and  for  myself  fixed  bread  with  cottage  cheese.  We  sat  at  a  card  table,  facing  each  other  like  a  married  couple.  A  cockroach  crawled  across  the  table,  but  neither  Elizabeth  nor  I  made  any  effort  to  disturb  it.  The  cockroaches  in  my  apartment  apparent-  ly  knew  that  I  was  a  vegetarian  and  that  I  felt  no  hatred  for  their  species,  which  is  a  few  hundred  million  years  older  than  man  and  which  will  survive  him.  Elizabeth  had  strong  tea,  with  milk,  and  I  had  mine  weak,  with  lemon.  When  I  drank,  I  helda  piece  of  sugar  from  a  cube  between  my  teeth  as  had  been  the  custom  in  Bilgoraj  and  Klendev.  She  didn't  touch  the  cook-  ies,  and  gradually  I  finished  them  off.  There  had  evolved  between  us  a  famil-  arity  that  requires  no  preliminaries.  I  heard  myself  ask,  &quot;How  long  is  it  since  you've  stopped  sleeping  with  him?&quot;  Elizabeth  began  to  blush,  but  when  the  blood  had  colored  half  her  face  it  receded.  &quot;I'll  tell  you  something,  though  you  won't  believe  it.&quot;  &quot;I'll  believe  anything  you  say.&quot;  &quot;I'm  physically  a  virgin.&quot;  She  blurt,  ed  out  the  words  and  seemed  astonished  to  have  said  them.  To  show  that  she  had  not  shocked  me,  I  said  casually,  &quot;I  thought  this  was  an  extinct  breed  already.&quot;  &quot;There  is  always  a  Last  Mohican.&quot;  &quot;You  never  asked  a  doctor  about  the  situation?&quot;  &quot;Never.&quot;  &quot;What  about  psychoanalysis?&quot;  &quot;Neither  Leslie  nor  I  believes  in  it.&quot;  &quot;Don't  you  need  a  man?&quot;  I  asked,  bewildered  by  my  daring.  She  raised  her  glass  and  took  a  sip  of  tea.  &quot;Very  much  so,  but  I've  never  met  a  man  I  wanted  to  be  with.  That's  how  it  was  before  I  met  Leslie  and  that's  how  it's  been  since.  When  I  first  knew  him,  I  figured  that  Leslie  would  be  a  man  to  me,  but  he  said  that  he  wanted  to  wait  for  marriage.  This  seemed  foolish  to  me,  but  we  waited. When  we  were  married  we  made  sev-  eral  attempts,  but  they  didn't  work  out.  At  times  I  imagined  that  the  Klendev  rabbi  wouldn't  let  it  happen  because  Leslie  was  a  Gentile.  After  a  while  we  both  developed  a  revulsion  toward  the  whole  thing.&quot;  You  are  both  ascetics,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Eh?  I  don't  know.  I  indulge  in  passionate  affairs  in  my  daydreams.  I've  read  Freud,  Jung,  Stekel,  but  I'm  convinced  that  they  cannot  help  me.I'm  amazed  at  my  frankness  with  you.  I've  never  written  to  an  author  before.  I  generallydon't  write  letters.  It's  even  hard  for  me  to  write  to  my  father.  Suddenly,  I  write  you  and  phone  you.  It's  as  if  one  of  your  dybbuks  had  entered  me.  Now  that  you  seem  to  have  opened,  so  to  say,  a  sealed  source  within  me,  T'll  tell  you  some-  thing  else.  Since  I've  started  reading  you,  you've  become  the  lover  in  my  fantasies-you  have  driven  off  all  the  others.&quot;  Elizabeth  took  another  sip  of  tea.  She  smiled  and  added,  &quot;Don't  get  scared.  This  isn't  the  purpose  of  my  visit.&quot;  I  felt  a  dryness  in  my  throat  and  had  to  strain  to  make  my  voice  emerge  clearly.  &quot;Tell  me  about  your  fantasies.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  spend  time  with  you,  We  take  trips  together.  You  take  me  along  to  [REDACTED]  and  we  visit  all  the  villages  you  describe.  Strange,  but  in  my  imagi-  nation  your  voice  is  the  same  as  your  voice  is  now  and  I  can't  conceive  how  this  can  be.  Even  your  accent  is  as  I  imagined  it.  This  is  something  really  irrational.&quot;  &quot;Every  love  is  irrational,&quot;  I  said,  embarrassed  by  my  own  assumption.  Elizabeth  bowed  her  head  and  gave  this  some  thought.  &quot;At  times  I  go  to  sleep  with  these  fantasies  and  they  are  transformed  into  dreams.  I  see  towns  full  of  movementt.  I  hear  Yiddish  spoken,  and  although  I  don't  know  the  language,  I  understand  everything  in  the  dream,.  If  I  didn't  know  that  these  places  have  been  de-  stroyed,  I  would  go  there  to  see  if  everything  matches  my  dreams.&quot;  &quot;Nothing  matches  anymore.&quot;  &quot;My  mother  always  spoke  to  me  of  her  father,  the  rabbi.  She  came  to  [REDACTED]  with  her  mother-my  grand-  mother-when  she  was  eight.  My  grandfather  was  married  for  the  sec-  ond  time  when  he  was  seventy-five  to  a  girl  of  eighteen,  and  my  mother  was  the  result  of  this  marriage.  Six  years  later,  my  grandfather  died.  He  left  many  exegeses.  The  whole  family  per-  ished  under  the  Nazis,  and  all  his  man-  uscripts  were  burned.  My  grandmother  brought  along  a  small  Hebrew  book  he  had  published  and  I  have  it  in  my  purse  in  the  foyer.  Would  you  like  to  see  it?&quot;  &quot;Absolutely.&quot;  &quot;Let  me  wash  the  dishes.  You  wait  here.  I'll  get  Grandfather's  book  and  " b"you  can  look  it  over  in  the  time  I  do  them.&quot;  I  remained  at  the  table  and  Eliza-  beth  brought  me  a  slim  book  entitled  &quot;The  Outcry  of  Mordechai.&quot;  On  the  title  page  the  author  listed  his  gene-  alogy,  and  as  I  studied  it  I  saw  that  my  visitor  and  I  were  actually  related  bya  connection  many  centuries  back.  We  were  both  descended  from  Rabbi  Moses  Isserles  and  also  from  the  au-  thor  of  &quot;The  Revealer  of  Profundi-  tics.&quot;  The  book  by  the  Klendev  rabbi  was  a  pamphlet  against  the  Radzyn  rabbi,  Reb  Gershon  Henoch,  who  be-  lieved  that  he  had  found  in  the  Medi-  terranean  Sea  the  murex  whose  secre-  tion  was  used  in  ancient  [REDACTED]  to  dye  the  ritual  fringes  blue,  although  it  was  traditionally  accepted  that  the  murex  had  been  concealed  after  the  destruc-  tion  of  the  Temple  and  would  be  found  again  only  when  the  Messiah  came.  Reb  Gershon  Henoch  hadn't  reckoned  on  the  storm  of  protest  from  the  other  rabbis,  and  he  directed  his  followers  to  wear  the  blue  fringes.  This  aroused  great  controversy  in  the  rab-  binical  world.  The  pages  of  &quot;The  Out-  cry  of  Mordechai&quot;  had  grown  yellow  and  so  dry  that  pieces  flicked  off  the  margins  when  I  leafed  through  them.  Elizabeth  washed  the  plates  and  our  glasses  in  the  sink  with  a  sponge.  &quot;What's  written  there?&quot;  she  asked  me.  It  wasn't  easy  to  explain  to  Eliza-  beth  de  Sollarthe  dispute  between  the  Radzyn  rabbi  and  the  other  rabbis  and  Talmudic  scholars  of  his  generation,  but  I  somehow  found  the  words,  Her  eyes  sparkled  as  she  listened.  &quot;Fascinat-  ing!&quot;  HE  telephone  rang  and  I  left  Elizabeth  to  answer  it.  It  was  Oliver  Leslie  de  Sollar  again.  I  told  him  that  I  would  fetch  his  wife,  but  he  said,  &quot;Wait.  May  I  have  a  few  words  with  you?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  of  course.&quot;  Oliver  Leslie  began  to  cough  and  clear  his  throat.  &quot;My  daughter,  Bibi,  nearly  died  from  her  attacktoday.  We  barely  saved  her.  We  have  a  neighbor  here,  a  Mr.  Porter,  who  is  a  friend,  and  he  found  some  medicine  that  an-  other  doctor  had  once  prescribed.  She's  asleep  now.  I  want  you  to  know  that  my  wife  is  a  sick  woman,  both  physi-  cally  and  spiritually.  She  has  tried  to  commit  suicide  twice.  The  second  time,  she  took  so  many  sleeping  pills  she  had  to  be  kept  three  days  in  an  iron  lung.  She  has  an  enormously  high  opinion  of  you  and  is  in  love  with  you  in  her  own  fashion,  but  I  want  to  warn  you  not  to  encourage  her.  Our  marriage  is  ex-  tremely  unhappy,  but  I'm  like  a  father  to  her  because  her  own  father  deserted  " b"her  and  her  mother  when  Elizabeth  was  only  a  child.  Her  father's  indiffer-  ence  instilled  in  her  a  puritanism  that  has  made  our  existence  a  nightmare.  Don't  promise  her  anything,  because  she  lives  entirely  in  a  world  of  illu-  sions.  She  needs  psychiatric  care,  but  she  refuses  it.  I'm  sure  that  you  under-  stand  and  that  you  will  act  like  are-  sponsible  person.&quot;  &quot;You  may  be  completely  sure.&quot;  &quot;She  exists  on  tranquillizers.  I  used  to  be  a  philosophy  professor,  but  after  we  married  I  could  no  longer  hold  my  position.  Fortunately,  I  have  wealthy  parents  who  help  us.  I've  suffered  so  much  from  her  that  my  own  health  has  deteriorated.  This  is  the  type  of  woman  who  robs  a  man  of  his  potency.  If,  heaven  forbid,  you  became  involved  with  her,  your  talent  would  be  the  first  casualty.  If  she  lived  in  the  six-  teenth  century,  she  would  have  been  surely  burned  at  the  stake  as  a  witch.  In  the  years  I've  known  her,  I've  come  to  believe  in  black  magic-as  a  psychological  phenomenon,  naturally.&quot;  &quot;I  hear  you're  writing  a  book  on  astrology.&quot;  &quot;Is  that  what  she  told  you?  Non-  sense!  I'm  doing  work  on  [REDACTED]'s  last  thirty  years  and  his  religious  con-  victions.  You  undoubtedly  know  that  [REDACTED]  considered  gravity  a  divine  force-the  purest  expression  of  godly  will.  The  greatest  scientist  of  all  times  was  also  a  great  mystic.  Since  gravity  controls  the  universe,  it  follows  that  the  celestial  bodies  influence  the  organic  and  spiritual  world  in  every  manner  and  form.  This  is  aeons  removed  from  the  usual  astrology  with  its  horoscopes  and  other  folderol.&quot;  &quot;Shall  I  get  your  wife?&quot;  &quot;No.  Don't  tell  her  I  called.  She  is  capable  of  causing  me  terrible  scan-  dals.  She  once  attacked  me  with  a  knife.  ...&quot;  During  the  time  Oliver  Leslie  had  been  talking  to  me,  Elizabeth  didn't  appear.  I  wondered  why  it  was  tak-  ing  her  so  long  to  dry  two  plates  and  glasses,  but  I  assumed  that  she  hadn't  wanted  to  disturb  my  conversation.  The  moment  I  hung  up  I  went  into  the  kitchen,  but  Elizabeth  wasn't  there.  I  guessed  what  had  happened.  A  nar-  row  passage  led  from  the  kitchen  to  my  bedroom,  where  an  extension  tele-  phone  stood  on  a  night  table.  I  opened  the  door  to  the  passage  and  Elizabeth  was  standing  on  the  threshold.  She  said,  &quot;I  had  to  go  to  the  bath-  room.&quot;  From  the  manner  in  which  she  said  this-quickly,  guiltily,  in  a  defensive  tone-I  knew  that  she  was  lying.  She  might  have  been  on  the  way  to  the  bathroom  (although  how  could  she  know  that  this  door  led  to  it?)  and  spied  the  extension  phone.  Her  eyes  reflected  a  blend  of  anger  and  mock-  ery.  So  that's  the  kind  of  baggage  you  are,I  thought.  Every  trace  of  restraint  I  might  have  felt  toward  her  vanished.  I  put  my  hands  on  her  shoulders,  She  trembled,  and  her  face  assumed  the  mischievous  expression  ofa  little  girl  caught  stealing  or  dressing  up  in  her  mother's  clothes.  &quot;For  a  virgin,  you're  a  shrewd  piece,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Yes,  I  heard  everything,  and  I'll  never  go  back  to  him,&quot;  she  said  in  a  voice  grown  firmer  and  younger  as  well.  It  was  as  if  she  had  thrown  off  a  mask  she  had  worn  a  long  time  and  in  that  split  second  become  someone  else-someone  youthful  and  frolic-  some.  She  pursed  her  lips  as  if  about  to  kiss  me.  I  was  overcome  with  de-  sire  for  her,  but  I  remembered  Oliver  Leslie's  warning.  I  bent  toward  her  and  our  eyes  came  so  close  I  saw  only  a  blueness  like  that  within  a  grot-  to.  Our  lips  touched  but  didn't  kiss.  My  knees  pressed  against  hers  and  she  began  to  move  backward.  While  I  pushed  her  slightly  and  playfully,  a  solemn  voice  admonished  me:  &quot;Be-  ware!  You're  falling  into  a  trap!&quot;  At  that  moment,  the  phone  rang  again.  I  lurched  with  such  force  that  I  nearly  knocked  her  over.  A  ringing  telephone  evokes  a  reaction  of  wild  ex-  pectations  in  me-I  often  compare  my-  self  to  Pavlov's  dogs.  For  a  moment  I  wavered  between  hurrying  forward  into  the  bedroom  or  back  to  the  hall;  then  I  ran  to  the  hall  with  Elizabeth  at  my  heels.  I  took  up  the  receiver  and  she  tried  to  wrest  it  from  me,  obvious-  ly  convinced  that  her  husband  was  call-  ing  again.  I  thought  so  myself,  but  I  heard  a  firm,  middle-aged  female  voice  ask,  &quot;Is  Elizabeth  de  Sollar  with  you?  I'm  her  mother.&quot;  At  first,  I  didn't  grasp  the  mean-  ing  ofthe  words-in  my  confusion  I  had  forgotten  my  visitor's  name.  But  " b"soon  I  recovered.  &quot;Yes,  she  is  here.&quot;  &quot;My  name  is  Mrs.  Harvey  Lemkin.  I  just  received  a  call  from  my  son-in-  law,  Dr.  Leslie  de  Sollar,  telling  me  that  my  daughter  is  paying  you  a  visit  and  that  she  left  her  sick  little  step-  daughter  and  all  the  rest  of  it.  I  want  to  warn  you  that  my  daughter  is  an  emotionally  ill  and  irresponsible  per-  son.  My  son-in-law,  Professor  de  Sol-  lar,  and  I  have  spent  a  fortune  to  help  her-with  negative  results,  I  am  sorry  to  say.  At  thirty-three  she  is  still  a  child,  although  she  is  highly  intelligent  and  writes  poems  that  in  my  opinion  are  remarkable.  You  are  a  man  and  I  can  well  understand  that  when  a  pret-  ty  and  greatly  gifted  young  woman  demonstrates  her  admiration  you  should  be  intrigued,  but  don't  let  yourself  be-  come  involved  with  her.  You'll  fall  into  a  mess  from  which  you'll  never  escape.  Because  of  her,  I've  left  New  York,  a  city  I  love  with  all  my  heart  and  soul,  and  I've  buried  myself  away  out  here  in  [REDACTED].  My  daughter  spoke  so  much  of  you  and  praised  you  so  highly  thatI  began  to  read  what  you  write  in  English  and  in  Yiddish,  too.  I  am  the  Klendev  rabbi's  daugh-  ter  and  my  Yiddish  is  pretty  good.  I  could  tell  you  a  lot  and  I  would  be  more  than  glad  to  meet  you  in  New  York-I  come  there  from  time  to  time-but  I  beseech  you  by  all  that's  holy:  Leave  my  daughter  alone!&quot;  The  whole  time  her  mother  was  speaking,  Elizabeth  stood  apart  and  looked  at  me  sidelong,  inquisitively,  half  frightened  and  half  ashamed.  She  made  a  gesture  as  if  to  come  closer,  but  I  motioned  her  away  with  my  left  hand.  She  made  me  think  of  a  schoolgirl  listening  to  a  teacher  or  principal  accuse  her  in  front  of  her  parents  and  unable  to  restrain  herself  from  denying  the  charges.  Her  mother's  voice  was  so  loud  she  would  have  heard  every  word,  Just  when  I  was  about  to  make  some  reply,  Elizabeth  jumped  forward,  tore  the  receiver  from  my  hand,  and  exclaimed  ina  wailing  voice,  &quot;Mother,  I'll  never  forgive  you!  Never!  Never!  You're  no  longer  my  mother  and  I'mno  longer  your  child!  You  sold  me  to  a  psychopath,  a  capon.  ...I  don't  need  your  money  and  I  don't  need  you!  Whenever  I  might  snatch  a  moment's  happiness  you  spoil  it  all  for  me.  You're  my  worst  enemy.  I'll  kill  you!  I'll  leave  you  a  corpse  for  what  you're  doing  to  me....  Bitch!  Whore!  Thief!  Criminal!  You  sleep  with  an  eighty-year-old  gangster  for  money!  I  spit  on  you!  I  spit,  spit,  spit,  spit!&quot;  I  stood  there  and  watched  foam  bubble  from  her  mouth.  She  bent  over  and  writhed  in  pain.  She  clutched  at  the  wall.  I  reached  out  to  help  her,  but  at  that  moment  she  fell  with  a  crash,  dragging  the  telephone  down  with  her.  She  lay  cramped  and  tossing,  while  one  hand  beat  rapidly  against  the  floor  as  if  she  were  trying  to  signal  the  tenant  below.  Her  mouth  twisted  and  I  heard  a  gasping  growl.  I  knew  what  was  happening-Elizabeth  had  suffered  an  epileptic  fit.  I  lifted  the  phone  and  yelled  into  the  mouthpiece,  &quot;Mrs.  Lemkin,  your  daughter  is  having  a  seizure!&quot;  But  the  connection  was  bro-  ken.  Should  I  call  an  ambulance?  How  did  one  go  about  doing  that?  My  tele-  phone  had  apparently  stopped  working.  I  wanted  to  open  the  window  and  call  for  help,  but  in  the  clamor  and  clang  of  [REDACTED]  no  one  would  hear  me  from  the  eleventh  floor.  Instead,  I  ran  into  thekitchen,  filled  a  glass  with  water,  and  poured  it  on  Elizabeth's  face.  This  caused  her  to  bellow  weird-  ly,  and  saliva  sprayed  my  forehead.  I  rushed  out  into  the  corridor  and  began  to  pound  on  my  neighbor's  door,  but  no  one  answered.  Only  now  did  I  no-  tice  that  a  stack  of  magazines  and  en-  velopes  lay  on  his  threshold.  I  turned  to  go  back  to  my  apartment  and  to  my  consternation  saw  that  I  had  let  the  door  slam  shut.  I  didn't  have  the  key  on  me.  I  pushed  the  door  with  all  my  might,  but  I'm  not  one  of  those  bruis-  ers  who  can  break  down  a  door.  In  all  my  desperation  I  remembered  that  a  duplicate  key  to  my  apartment  hung  in  the  office  in  the  courtyard.  I  could  also  ask  there  that  an  ambulance  be  called.  I  realized  full  well  what  charges  Elizabeth's  husband  and  moth-  er  could  bring  against  me  in  the  event  she  died  in  my  apartment.  They  might  even  accuse  me  of  murder....  I  pressed  the  button  for  the  service  ele-  vator  and  the  pointer  showed  that  it  was  standing  on  the  seventeenth  floor.  I  ran  down  the  stairs,  and  in  my  mind-perhaps  even  aloud-I  cursed  the  day  I  was  born.  As  I  ran,  I  heard  the  service  elevator  descending.  I  reached  the  lobby,  and  two  moving  men  had  the  exit  blocked  with  a  sofa.  Someone  on  the  seventeenth  floor  was  moving  out.  The  lobby  was  filled  with  furniture,  flower  urns,  stacks  of  books.  I  asked  the  men  to  let  me  pass,  but  they  pretended  not  to  hear.  Well,  I  thought,  this  visit  will  be  the  death  of  me.  Then  I  remembered  that  on  the  sixth  floor  lived  a  typesetter  from  the  newspaper  of  which  I  was  a  staff  member.  If  anyone  in  the  family  was  home,  he  would  help  me  call  an  am-  bulance  and  phone  the  office  about  a  duplicate  key.  I  started  to  run  up  the  stairs  to  the  sixth  floor.  My  heart  pounded  and  I  broke  out  in  a  sweat.  I  rang  the  doorbell  of  the  typeset-  ter's  apartment,  but  no  one  answered.  I  was  prepared  to  run  downstairs  again  when  the  door  parted  the  length  of  the  chain.  I  saw  an  eye,  and  a  female  voice  asked,  &quot;What  do  you  want?&quot;  I  began  to  explain  to  the  woman  what  had  happened.  I  spoke  in  clipped  sentences  and  with  the  fren-  zy  of  one  in  mortal  danger.  The  woman's  single  eye  bored  through  me.  &quot;I'm  not  the  lady  of  the  house.  They're  abroad.  I'm  a  cousin.&quot;  &quot;I  beg  you  to  help  me.  Believe  me  that  I'm  no  thief  or  robber.  Your  cousin  sets  all  my  manuscripts.  Maybe  you've  heard  my  name?&quot;  I  mentioned  the  name  ofthe  newspaper,  I  even  cited  the  titles  of  several  of  my  books,  but  she  had  never  heard  of  me.  After  some  hesi-  tation,  she  said,  &quot;I  can't  let  you  in.  You  know  how  it  is  these  days.  Wait  here,  I'll  call  the  office  on  the  house  phone.  Tell  me  your  name  again.&quot;  I  repeated  my  name  for  her,  gave  her  the  number  of  my  apartment,  and  thanked  her  profusely.  She  closed  the  door.  I  expected  that  any  minute  she  would  inform  me  she  " b"had  called  the  office  and  help  was  on  the  way,  but  seven  minutes  went  by  and  the  door  didn't  open.  I  stood  there,  tense  and  miserable,  and  took  a  quick  reckoning  of  man  and  his  existence.  He  is  completely  dependent,  a  slave  to  circumstance.  The  slightest  mishap  and  everything  goes  to  pieces.  There  is  one  solution-to  free  oneself  totally  from  making  for  oneself  the  Sabbath  that  is  called  life  and  turn  back  to  the  indif-  ference  of  causality,  to  death,  which  is  the  substance  of  the  universe.  Five  more  minutes  passed  and  still  the  door  didn't  open.  I  began  to  skip  down  the  stairs  again,  my  mind  churn-  ing  with  images  of  how  I  would  punish  this  heartless  woman  if  I  possessed  un-  limited  power.  I  reached  the  lobby  and  the  sofa  was  standing  outside.  I  saw  Mr.  Brown,  the  superintendent,  and  frantically  told  him  my  predicament.  He  gazed  at  me  in  astonishment.  &quot;No  one  called.  Come.  I'll  give  you  the  key.&quot;  The  service  elevator  was  free,  and  I  rode  up  to  the  eleventh  floor,  opened  the  door,  and  found  Elizabeth  Abigail  de  Sollar  lying  on  the  sofa  in  the  living  room,  her  hair  wet  and  dishevelled,  her  face  pale,  her  shoes  off.  I  barely  recog-  nized  her.  She  seemed  to  me  much  old-  er-almost  middle-aged.  She  had  placed  a  towel  under  her  head.  She  looked  at  me  with  the  silent  reproof  of  a  wife  whose  husband  has  left  her  sick  and  alone  and  gone  off  somewhere  for  his  own  pleasure.  I  half  shouted,  &quot;My  dear  Elizabeth,  you  must  go  home  to  your  husband!  I'm  too  old  for  such  goings  on.&quot;  She  considered  my  words;  then  she  saidin  a  dull  tone,  &quot;If  you  order  me  to  go,  I  will  go,  but  not  back  to  him.  I'm  finished  with  him  and  with  my  mother,  too.  From  now  on,  I  am  alone  in  the  world.&quot;  &quot;Where  will  you  go?&quot;  &quot;'To  a  hotel.&quot;  &quot;They  won't  let  you  into  a  hotel  without  luggage.  If  you  don't  have  any  money,  I  can-&quot;  &quot;I  have  my  checkbook  with  me,  but  why  can't  I  stay  here  with  you?  I'm  not  altogether  well,  but  it's  nothing  or-  ganic-only  functional.  It's  they  who  made  me  sick.  I  can  type.  I  know  a  little  stenography,  too.  Oh,  I  forgot  that  you  write  in  Yiddish.  This  I  don't  know,  but  I  would  learn  it  in  time.  My  mother  used  to  speak  Yiddish  with  my  grandmother  when  she  didn't  want  me  to  understand  what  they  were  say-  ing,  and  I  picked  up  quite  a  number  of  words.  I  once  bought  a  vegetarian  cookbook,  and  I'd  cook  vegetarian  meals  for  you.&quot;  I  looked  at  her  in  silence.  Yes,  she  was  my  relative-the  genes  of  our ancestors  reached  out  directly  to  both  of  us.  The  notion  that  it  might  be  incest  for  us  to  be  together  flashed  through  my  mind-one  of  those  un-  invited  ideasthat  emerge,  God  knows  from  where,  and  shock  with  their  ridiculous  irrelevance.  &quot;'That  sounds  like  paradise,  but  un-  fortunately  it  cannot  be,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Why  not?  You  probably  'have  someone  else.  Yes,  I  understand.  But  is  there  any  reason  you  can't  have  a  maid?  I'll  be  everything  to  you-a  maid  and  a  cook  as  well.  Your  apart-  ment  is  neglected.  You  probably  eat  in  cafeterias.  I  do  nothing  in  my  own  house  because  I  have  no  interest  in  it,  but  my  mother  made  me  take  a  course  in  housekeeping.  I  would  work  for  you  and  you  wouldn't  have  to  pay  me  any-  thing.  My  parents  are  both  filthy  rich  and  I'm  their  only  daughter.  I'm  not  interested  in  your  money.  ...&quot;  Before  I  could  answer  her,  I  heard  a  sharp  ring  at  the  door.  At  the  same  time  the  telephone  rang.  I  grabbed  the  receiver,  told  whoever  was  calling  that  there  was  someone  at  the  door,  and  ran  to  open  it.  I  saw  a  man  who  could  have  been  no  one  but  Oliver  Leslie  de  Sollar-tall,  lean,  with  a  long  face  and  neck,  a  ruff  of  faded  blond  hair  around  a  bald  skull,  wearing  a  checked  suit,  a  stiff  collar,  and  a  nar-  row  tie  with  a  still  narrower  knot  of  the  type  that  reminded  me  of  the  [REDACTED]  dandies.  I  nodded  and  re-  turned  to  the  telephone.  I  was  sure  that  it  was  Elizabeth's  mother  calling,  but  a  rough,  masculine  voice  spoke  my  name  and  demanded  acknowledgement  that  it  was  really  I.  Then  the  caller  said  slowly  and  with  the  tone  of  an  official,  &quot;My  name  is  Howard  William  Moonlight  and  I  represent  Mrs.  Har-  vey  Lemkin,  the  mother  of  Mrs.  Eliza-  beth  de  Sollar.  I  am  sure  that  you  know  whom-&quot;  I  interrupted  him  to  shout,  &quot;Mr.  de  Sollar  is  here!  He'll  talk  to  you!&quot;  I  dashed  to  the  door,  where  my  visi-  tor  still  stood  erectly,  politely,  waiting  to  be  invited  inside.  I  cried  out,  &quot;Mr.  de  Sollar,  it's  not  two  hours  since  your  wife  came  to  visit  me  and  hell  is  loose  here!  I've  already  received  threatening  calls  from  you,  from  your  mother-in-  law,  and  now  from  a  lawyer.  Your  wife  has  managed  to  have  an  epileptic  fit  and  only  God  knows  what  else.  I'm  sorry  to  say  this,  but  I'm  not  interested  in  your  wife,  your  mother-in-law,  her  lawyer,  or  in  the  whole  crazy  affair.  " b"Do  me  a  favor  and  take  her  home.  If  not,  I  will  .  ..&quot;  I  was  left  momentarily  speechless.  I  was  about  to  say  that  I  would  call  the  police,  but  the  words  didn't  come  out.  I  glanced  at  the  telephone  and  saw  to  my  amazement  that  Elizabeth  was  mumbling  into  the  mouthpiece  with  her  eyes  fixed  on  me  and  my  visitor.  He  said  in  a  thin  voice  that  didn't  match  his  stature,  &quot;I'm  afraid  there's  been  some  misunderstanding.  I'm  not  the  person  who  called  you.  My  name  is  Dr.  Jeffrey  Lifshitz.  I'm  an  assistant  professor  of  literature  at  the  University  of  [REDACTED],  and  a  great  admirer  of  your  writing.  I  have  a  friend  in  this  building  who  also  happens  to  be  a  de-  voted  reader  of  yours,  and  when  I  vis-  ited  him  today  we  got  to  talking  about  you  and  he  told  me  that  you  are  his  neighbor.  I  wanted  to  phone  you,  but  I  couldn't  find  your  name  in  the  directory  and  I  thought  I'd  ring  your  doorbell.  Forgive  me  for  disturbing  you.&quot;  &quot;You  haven't  disturbed  me.I'm  pleased  to  have  you  as  a  reader,  but  there  has  been  a  considerable  commo-  tion  going  on  in  my  house.  Will  you  be  staying  in  the  city  for  long&quot;&quot;  &quot;I'll  be  here  the  whole  week.&quot;  &quot;Would  it  be  convenient  for  you  to  come  to  see  me  tomorrow?&quot;  &quot;Certainly.&quot;  &quot;Let  us  say  tomorrow  at  11  a.m.?&quot;  &quot;It  will  be  a  pleasure  and  an  honor.  Again,  excuse  me  for  dropping  in  on  you  in  such  a-&quot;  1  assured  Professor  Lifshitz  that  I  would  be  happy  to  meet  with  him,  and  he  left.  Elizabeth  had  put  down  the  receiver.  She  stood  by  the  telephone  as  if  wait-  ing  for  me  to  come  to  her.  I  stopped  a  few  paces  away  and  said,  &quot;I'm  sorry.  You're  a  great  woman.  I  understand  your  plight,  but  I  can't  get  into  a  battle  with  your  husband,  your  mother,  and  now  with  a  lawyer,  too.  What  did  he  want?  Why  did  he  call?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  they're  all  mad.  But  I  heard  what  you  told  your  guest  you  mistook  for  my  husband,  and  I  swear  I'll  trouble  you  no  more.  What  happened  today  proves  to  me  that  only  one  way  re-  mains  for  me  to  set  myself  free.  I  just  want  to  point  out  that  your  diagnosis  was  incorrect.  I'm  not  an  epileptic.&quot;  &quot;Then  what  is  it&quot;&quot;  &quot;The  doctors  themselves  don't  know.  A  kind  of  hypersensitivity  that  I  inherited  from  who  knows  where,  maybe  from  our  common  ancestor.  What  was  his  book?&quot;  &quot;''The  Revealer  of  Profundities.&quot;  &quot;What  kind  of  profundities  did  he  reveal?&quot;  &quot;That  no  love  of  any  kind  is  lost,&quot;  I  said,  although  I  had  never  read  a  word  by  this  ancestor  of  mine.  &quot;Does  he  say  where  all  the  loves,  all  the  dreams,  all  the  desires  go?&quot;  &quot;They're  somewhere.&quot;  &quot;Where?  In  the  profundities?&quot;  &quot;In  a  celestial  archive.&quot;  &quot;Even  Heaven  would  be  too  small  for  such  an  archive.  I  will  go.  Oh,  it's  ringing  again'!  Please  don't  answer!  Don't  answer!&quot;  I  picked  up  the  receiver,  but  there  was  no  one  on  the  line.  I  hung  up  and  Elizabeth  said,  &quot;That's  Leslic.  That's  one  of  his  antics.  What  did  the  Re-  vealer  of  Profunditiecs  say  about  mad-  ness?  I  must  go!  If  I  don't  lose  my  mind,  you'll  hear  from  me.  Maybe  to-  day,  from  the  hotel.&quot;  Elizabeth  de  Sollar  never  called  or  wrote  me  again.  She  left  behind  and  never  claimed  her  ornate  umbrella  and  her  grandfather's  book,  &quot;The  Outcry  of  Mordechai,&quot;  which  was  supposed  to  be  the  only  existing  copy,  so  precious  to  her,  and  this  has  remained  a  mystery  to  me.  But  another  mystery  connected  with  her  visit  was  soon  unravelled.  I  met  my  neighbor  the  typesetter  and  told  him  about  his  cousin  who  promised  to  call  the  office  and  never  showed  herself  again.  He  smiled,  shook  his  head,  and  said,  You  knocked  on  a  strange  door.  I  live  on  the  fifth  floor,  not  on  the  sixth.&quot;"