 b"FIRST  off,  thanks  a  mil  for  your  letter.  I  had  feared  there  might  be  some  residual  bad  vibes  be-  tween  us  since  your  bosses,  the  Money  Men,  turned  down  the  screen  treat-  ment  I  did  for  you  last  year,  and  we  blew  the  $7,800  W.G.A.W.  mini-  mum.  You  were  perfectly  right  about  the  treatment.  My  central  character  (a  Jack  Nicholson  type  playing  a  Wally  Beery  type  in  a  seventies-type  thirties  film)  lacked  solid  motivation,  and  the  story  line  was  short  on  jeopardy.  Those  five  other  writers  you  brought  in  on  spec  did  the  best  they  could,  but  by  the  time  they  got  the  feel  of  the  thing  their  unemployment  benefits  and  ampheta-  mines  had  run  out.  I  appreciate  your  trust  in  me,  Melvin,  since,  as  you  said  yourself,  not  many  people  deliver  these  days.  Why,  Mickey  Cohen  was  on  TV  just  the  other  night,  and  he  said  he  wouldn't  start  up  a  gang  today-no  way.  &quot;You  just  can't  trust  people  any-  more,&quot;  he  said.  Anyway,  you  open  your  letter  by  asking  me  if  I  have  any  screen  ideas  in  my  fertile  brain,  and  I'm  going  to  tell  you,  yes  I  do,  and  lay  one  right  on  you,  if  you  keep  in  mind,  of  course,  that  this  is  just  a  letter  and  I  can't  go  into  much  detail.  You  remember  &quot;The  Poseidon  Adventure&quot;?  (Is  Hope  a  Republican?  )  You're  au  courant  with  &quot;Earthquake&quot;  and  &quot;The  Towering  Inferno,&quot;  right?  Well,  here's  a  bare-bones  outline  for  a  story  that  I  think  would  make  the  ulti-  mate  catastrophe  flicker,  or  catastropic.  A  smashing  success,  if  you'll  excuse  the  expression.  Like  this.  People  are  beginning  to  freak  out  all  over  [REDACTED],  and  Chief  Raymond  Zinfandel  (played  by  Hes-  ton)  suspects  someone  on  the  left  (or  maybe  the  right,  or  possibly  the  mid-  dle)  has  spiked  the  city  reservoir  with  LSD-25.  It's  being  eyedroppered  into  Chatsworth  Reservoir  or  the  [REDACTED]  River  or  wherever  the  hell  the  water  comes  from.  (I  missed  &quot;Chinatown.&quot;  )  Heston  takes  personal  charge  of  the  in-  vestigation,  but  before  he  can  really  get  cooking,  a  nuclear  power  plant  in  Se-  bastopol  ([REDACTED])  blows  up.  Some  yo-yo  of  a  technician  there  pulls  the  control  rods  out  of  the  core  to  polish  them  with  Rally  wax,  gets  absorbed  in  watching  a  &quot;Rhoda&quot;  seg  on  TV,  and  forgets  to  slip  the  rods  back  in,  thus  allowing  the  neutrons  to  run  wild,  as  the  little  devils  like  to  do  the  minute  you  step  out  of     DISASTER  the  room.  Since  the  plant  is  built  direct-  ly  over  the  San  Guadalupe  Fault,  it  triggers  a  huge  earthquake-twelve  on  the  Richter.  The  earthquake  causes  a  power  outage  all  over  the  world.  There  are  no  lights  in  the  whole  goddam  world.People  start  killing  each  other  for  birthday  candles.  None  of  the  air-  liners  in  the  sky  can  land  (no  radio,  no  &quot;Fasten  Seat  Belts&quot;  signs),  so  this  gives  us  a  chance  to  do  flashback  closeups  on  the  messed-up  lives  of  various  people  on  these  planes,  possibly  living  their  last  few  hours.  Now,  we're  gonna  need  a  helluva  lot  of  actors  in  all  these  planes,  so  I  suggest  we  get  Crawford  (Joan  and  Broderick),  Nicholson,  Huston,  Brando,  Raquel,  Liz,  Richard,  Caan,  Reynolds  (Debbie  and  Burt),  OP  Blue  Eyes  (or  Blue  Mouth,  as  the  three-dot  columnists  call  him  now),  McQueen,  Redford,  Perrine,  and  maybe  Bertoluc-  ci,  Bufiuel,  and  Bergman  (Ingmar)  doing  cameos.  In  San  Francisco,  meanwhile,  1,200 commuters  are  stranded  in  a  BART  train  in  the  collapsed  trans-bay  tube,  but  they  don't  panic;  they're  used  to  this  happening  every  week  on  Bay  Area  Reckless  Transit.  Here  for  close-  ups  we  can  use  Red  Buttons,  Borg-  nine,  Bergman  (Ingrid),  Bette  Davis,  Newman  (Paul  and  Phyllis),  Bergen  (Candy  and  Edgar),  Redgrave  (Mi-  chael,  Vanessa,  and  Lynn),  Faye  Dun-  away,  Sir  Ralph,  Sir  John,  Young  (Robert,  Loretta,  and  Gig),  Princess  Lee,  Streisand,  Shirley  MacLaine,  Buf-  fy  Sainte-Marie,  Bacall,  O.  J.  Simpson,  Moms  Mabley,  and  Cher.  Maybe  even  Ronald  Reagan.  He  could  play  the  re-  tired  T.W.A.  captain  turned  subway  motorman,  on  his  last  run  before  re-  tirement,  who  refuses  to  go  by  the  book.  (They  say  Ron's  at  liberty  again  and  reading  scripts-which,  come  to  think  of  it,  is  really  what  he's  been  do-  ing  for  the  last  eight  years.)  Meanwhile,  tidal  waves  have  turned  sixteen  cruise  ships  on  their  sides.  Swinging  singles  and  Jewish  couples  on  their  third  honeymoon  are  literally  " b"walking  on  the  walls  and  the  portholes.  They  are  mad  as  wet  hornets  and  de-  manding  refunds  and  everything,  but  actually  they  are  all  sinking.  We  could  use  Tony  [REDACTED]  and  Dawn  (or  one  of  Dawn)  for  the  young  couple  whose  marriage  is  in  trouble.  Or  Julie  and  David,  who  are  about  to  hit  the  lecture  circuit  together  and  probably  need  the  exposure.  Olivier  and  Shirley  Temple  Black  area  racially  mixed  marriage  (any  races  will  do)  who  have  been  passing  but  decide  to  come  out  of  the  closet  when  and  if  they  ever  get  back  ashore.  Matthau  is  a  Presidential  Hope-  ful  who  is  voyaging  in  secret  com-  pany  with  his  illegitimate  daughter  (Maria  Muldaur),  but  when  she  is  in-  jured  in  the  capsizing  and  suddenly  needs  a  transfusion  of  this  veryrare  blood  type,  Walter  must  Face  Up  to  Things.  .  ..  Do  you  begin  tosee  how  all  this  builds?  Actually,  we'll  need  boatloads  of  Namies  for  this  bit,  and  as  soon  asI  get  time  to  grab  a  notepad  and  stroll  down  the  Walk  of  Fame  on  [REDACTED]  Bull,  where  they  have  all  those  stars  stuck  in  concrete,  I  should  come  up  with  some  really  outrageous  casting  ideas.  Back  to  the  story.  Truck  and  rail  transportation  is  also  shut  down  (al-  though  the  Teamsters  are  still  draw-  ing  full  pay),  and  there  is  only  a  twelve-hour  supply  of  food  left  in  the  cities.  Now  people  are  killing  each  oth-  er  for  Hostess  Twinkies,  Pepperidge  Farm  Cinnamon-Nut  Buns,  and  frozen  Mexidinners.  This  is  where  we  bring  in  the  big  man,  the  star  of  the  picture,  Charles  Bronson,  and  his  sidekick  (they  frequently  kick  each  other  in  the  side),  Clint  Eastwood.  There  is  only  one  way  out  of  this  impending  apoc-  alypse,  and  they  know  it.  Civil  rights  be  damned!  They've  got  to  cut  through  all  the  red  tape  and  pussy-  footing  in  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED]  and  Saudi  Arabia,  even  if  it  means  offing  a  few  hundred  thousand  peo-  ple-so  they  bite  on  their  bazookas  and  do  it.  How  they  do  it,  and  how  they  save  the  rest  of  the  world,  I'll  explain  when  you  send  me  the  standard  boiler-  plate  contract  for  writing  a  screen  treatment.  I  can  promise  you  a  drum-  tight  60-pp.  treatment  within  two  weeks.  I  know,  I  know-it  took  me  seven  weeks  to  do  a  page  and  a  half  the  last  time,  but  I  was  into  the  Wild  [REDACTED]  then,  and  you'd  be  amazed  how  fast  I  can  write  when  my  pencil  can  actually  form  legible  letters.  Oh,  I  left  out  some  things.  There's  a  subplot.  A  deadly  virus  has  been  fil-  trated  into  every  high-rise-office  air-  conditioner  by  the  Arab-Jewish  Free-  dom  League  (C.I.O.).  A  heaping  tea-spoon  of  this  odorless,  tasteless,  invisible  fluid  can  kill  the  entire  human  race  (or  air-conditioned  part  thereof),  and  there  is  only  forty-eight  hours  in  which  to  diagnose  the  problem  and  immunize  everybody  in  the  world.  Gregory  Peck  (  who  else?  )  gets  the  call.  Also,  Amer-  ica's  entire  new  fleet  of  lighter-than-air  (Zeppelin-type)  transports  have  sud-  denly  gone  nose-down  in  the  sky,  be-  cause  of  all  the  nuclear  turbulence,  and  will  somehow  have  to  be  landed  like  asparagus  stalks.  There  is  only  one  man  who  can  perform  this  tick-  lish  task-Oberleutnant  Hans  Zimmer-  man,  played  by  Dylan,  who  is  not  only  on  the  ground  but  happens  to  be  moun-  tain-climbing  God  knows  where  in  the  Himalayas  on  his  furlough.  (The  Zep-pelin  bit  is  not  a  sci-fi  hash  dream,  by  the  way.  Right  this  minute,  Lockheed  or  Grumman  or  somebody  is  working  on  giant  jet  planes  inflated  with  heli-  um-planes  that  are  ten  times  bigger  than  your  everyday  Ultra-Large  Crude  Carrier.  In  order  for  crewmen  to  get  from  the  front  to  the  back  of  these  Z-  planes,  they  have  to  ride  Honda  250s  and  carry  a  lunch.  I  mean,  we  can  meld  that  great  &quot;Hell's  Angels&quot;  footage  with  &quot;The  Wild  One&quot;  and  multiply  by  ten.)  By  the  way,  I  decided  to  scrub  the  Mafia  sequence,  which  was  in  my  first  thumbnail  outline.  I  had  it  that  the  Mob  offers  to  take  control  of  all  the  rescue  operations  if  they  are  allowed  to  skim  twenty-five  per  cent  off  thetop  and  receive  immunity  for  the  duration  (of  the  world).  On  second  thought,  I  decided  that  this  was  a  bit  preposterous.  I  mean,  we  do  want  to  keep  this  thing  realistic  and  believable  for  your  average  moviegoer.  Also,  I  think  the  Eyeties  are  getting  a  bit  up  to  here  with  always  being  the  black  hats  in  movies,  Though  money  is  your  end  of  the  business,  I'd  like  to  suggest  that  we  get  most  of  the  people  involved  below  the  " b"line,  so  we  won't  need  much  of  that  scarce  up-front  bread.  Once  we  get  this  baby  in  the  can,  I  figure  it's  good  for  a  year  in  the  hardtops,  then  we  can  rent  the  reels  to  CBS  for  a  one-shot  deal  for  twenty-five  mil.Ifthey  can  stretch  it  over  five  nights  and  shoehorn  in  forty  commershes  a  night  at  a  couple  of  hundred  Big  Ones  each,  they  should  be  able  to  get  most  of  their  money  back.  Of  course,  sophisticates  like  you  and  I  know  that  none  of  these  ultimate  dis-  asters  could  really  happen.  I  mean,  we  do,  don't  we?  Still,  this  friend  of  mine-  a  bit  of  a  schizzy  dude,  to  be  sure,  but  also  a  B.S.  from  Rensselaer  Poly-has  been  telling  me  that  if  we  go  on  muddy-  ing  up  the  ecosphere,  all  the  monarch  butterflies  will  turn  against  us  and  eat  up  the  entire  world  supply  of  sweet  sor-  ghum,  rock  salt,  and  anthracite  coal,  without  which  human  life  as  we  know  it  et  cetera  et  cetera.  Makes  you  think.  Lately,  I've  had  to  pop  three  10-mg.  Valiums  in  order  to  catch  my  Zs,  and  last  night  I  had  this  nightmare  about  collard  greens  and  tiger  lilies  joining  forces  to  take  over  NATO.  There's  a  dynamite  script  in  that,  Melvin  sweetie,  or  I'm  no  judge  of  blockbuster  b.o.  PHIL"