 b"ONE  dark  and  rainy  [REDACTED] spring  of  many  years  ago,  I  spent  all  my  after-school  and  evening  hours  in  the  living  room  of  our  antique-crammed  [REDACTED]  Street  flat,  writing  down  what  the  Ouija  board  said  to  my  mother.  My  father,  a  spoiled  and  rowdy  Irishman,  a  some-  time  engineer,  had  run  off  to  New  Or-  leans  with  a  girl,  and  my  mother  hoped  to  learn  from  the  board  if  he  would  come  back.  Then,  one  night  in  May,  during  a  crashing  black  thunderstorm  (my  mother  was  both  afraid  and  much  in  awe  of  such  storms),  the  board  told  her  to  move  down  [REDACTED],  to  43616e616461Carolina,  taking  me  and  all  the  an-  tiques  she  had  been  collecting  for  years,  and  to  open  a  store  ina  small  town  down  there.  That  is  what  we  did,  and  shortly  thereafter,  for  the  first  time  in  my  life,  I  fell  violently  and  permanent-  ly  in  love:  with  a  house,  with  a  family  of  three  people,  and  with  an  area  of  countryside.  Perhaps  too  little  attention  is  paid  to  the  necessary  preconditions  of  &quot;fall-  ing  in  love&quot;&quot;-I  mean  the  state  of  mind  or  place  that  precedes  one's  first  sight  of  the  loved  person  (or  house  or  land  ).  In  my  own  case,  I  remember  the  dark  [REDACTED]  afternoons  as  a  precondition  of  love.  Later  on,  for  another  important  time,  I  recognized  boredom  in  a  job.  And  once  the  fear  of  growing  old.  In  the  town  that  she  had  chosen,  my  mother,  Margot  (she  picked  out  her  own  name,  having  been  christened  Margaret),  rented  a  small  house  on  a  pleasant  back  street.  It  had  a  big  sur-  rounding  screened-in  porch,  where  she  put  most  of  the  antiques,  and  she  put  a  discreet  sign  out  in  the  front  yard:  &quot;Margot-Antiques.&quot;  'The  store  was  open  only  in  the  afternoons.  In  the  mornings  and  on  Sundays,  she  drove  around  the  countryside  in  our  ancient  and  spacious  Buick,  searching  for  tro-  phies  among  thearea's  country  stores  and  farms  and  barns.  (She  is  nothing  if  not  enterprising;  no  one  else  down  there  had  thought  of  doing  that  be-  fore.)  Although  frequently  embarrassed  by  her  aggression-she  thought  nothing  of  making  offers  for  furniture  that  was  in  use  in  a  family's  rooms-I  often  drove  with  her  during  those  first  few  weeks.  I  was  excited  by  the  novelty  of  the  landscape.  The  red  clay  banks  that  led  up  to  the  thick  pine  groves,  the  swollen  brown  creeks  half  hidden  by  flowering  tangled  vines.  Bare,  shaded  yards  from  which  rose  gaunt,  narrow  houses.  Chickens  that  scattered,  barefoot  chil-  dren  who  stared  at  our  approach.  &quot;Hello  there.  I'm  Mrs.  John  Kil-  gore-Margot  Kilgore-and  I'm  in-  terested  in  buying  old  furniture.  Family  portraits.  Silver.&quot;  Margot  a  big  brassily  bleached  blonde  in  a  pretty  flowered-silk  dress  and  high-heeled  patent  sandals.  A  hoarse  and  friendly  voice.  Me  a  scrawny,  pale,  curious  girl,  about  ten,  in  a  blue  linen  dress  with  smocking  across  the  bodice.  (Margot  has  always  had  a  passionate  belief  in  good  clothes,  no  matter  what.)  On  other  days,  Margot  would  say,  &quot;I'm  going  to  look  over  my  so-called  books.  Why  don't  you  go  for  a  walk  or  something,  Jane?&quot;  And  I  would  walk  along  the  sleepy,  leafed-over  streets,  on  the  unpaved  sidewalks,  past  houses  that  to  me  were  as  inviting  and  as  interesting  as  unread  books,  and  I  would  try  to  imagine  what  went  on  inside.  The  families.  Their  lives.  The  main  street,  where  the  stores  were,  interested  me  least.  Two-story  brick  buildings-dry-goods  stores,  with  dentists'  and  lawyers'  offices  above.  There  was  also  a  drugstore,  with  round  marble  tables  and  wire-backed  chairs,  at  which  wilting  ladies  sipped  at  their  Cokes  (this  was  to  become  a  fa-  vorite  haunt  of  Margot's).  I  preferred   the  civic  monuments:  a  pre-Revolu-  tionary  Episcopal  chapel  of  yellowish  cracked  plaster,  and  several  tall  white  statues  to  the  Civil  War  dead-all  of  them  quickly  overgrown  with  ivy  or  [REDACTED]  creeper.  These  were  the  early  nineteen-for-  ties,  and  in  the  next  few  years  the  town  was  to  change  enormously.  Its  small  textile  factories  would  be  given  defense  contracts  (parachute  silk);  a  Navy  preflight  school  would  be  established  at  a  neighboring  university  town.  But  at  that  moment  it  was  a  sleeping  village.  Untouched.  My  walks  were  not  a  lonely  occu-  pation,  but  Margot  worried  that  they  were,  and  some  curious  reasoning  led  her  to  believe  that  a  bicycle  would  help.  (Of  course,  she  turned  out  to  be  right.)  We  went  to  Sears,  and  she  bought  me  a  big  new  bike-blue,  with  balloon  tires-on  which  I  began  to  ex-  plore  the  outskirts  of  town  and  the  countryside.  The  house  I  fell  in  love  with  was  about  a  mile  out  of  town,  on  top  of  a  hill.  A  small  stone  bank  that  was  all  overgrown  with  tangled  roses  led  up  to  its  yard,  and  pink  and  white  roses  climbed  up  a  trellis  to  the  roof  of  the  front  porch-the  roof  on  which,  later,  Harriet  and  I  used  to  sit  and  exchange  our  stores  of  erroneous  sexual  informa-  tion.  Harriet  Farr  was  the  daughter  of  " b"the  house.  On  one  side  of  the  house,  there  was  what  looked  like  a  newer  wing,  with  a  bay  window  and  a  long  side  porch,  below  which  the  lawn  sloped  down  to  some  flowering  shrubs.  There  was  a  yellow  rosebush,  rhodo-  dendron,  a  plum  tree,  and  beyond  were  woods-pines,  and  oak  and  cedar  trees.  The  effect  was  rich  and  careless,  gen-  erous  and  somewhat  mysterious.  I  was  deeply  stirred.  As  I  was  observing  all  this,  from  my  halted  bike  on  the  dusty  white  hilltop,  a  small,  plump  woman,  very  erect,  came  out  of  the  front  door  and  went  over  to  a  flower  bed  below  the  bay  window.  She  sat  down  very  stiffly.  (Emily,  who  was  Harriet's  mother,  had  some  terrible,  never  diagnosed  trouble  withher  back;  she  generally  wore  abrace.)  She  was  older  than  Margot,  with  very  beautiful  white  hair  that  was  badly  cut  in  that  butchered  nineteen-thirties  way.  From  the  first,  I  was  fascinated  by  Emily's  obvious  dissimilarity  to  Mar-  got.  I  think  I  was  also  somehow  drawn  to  her  contradictions-the  shapeless  body  held  up  with  so  much  dignity,  even  while  she  was  sitting  in  the  dirt.  The  lovely  chopped-off  hair.  (There  were  greater  contradictions,  which  I  learned  of  later-she  was  a  [REDACTED]  Episcopa-  lian  who  always  voted  for  Norman  Thomas,  a  feminist  who  always  de-  layed  meals  for  her  tardy  husband.)  Emily's  hair  was  one  of  the  first  things  about  the  Farr  family  that  I  mentioned  to  Margot  after  we  became  friends,  Harriet  and  Emily  and  I,  and  I  began  to  spend  most  of  my  time  in  that  house.  &quot;I  don't  think  she's  ever  dyed  it,&quot;  I  said,  with  almost  conscious  lack  of  tact.  Of  course,  Margot  was  defensive.  &quot;I  wouldn't  dye  mine  if  I  thought  it  would  bea  decent  color  on  its  own.&quot;  But  by  that  time  Margot's  life  was  also  improving.  Business  was  fairly  good,  and  she  had  finally  heard  from  my  father,  who  began  to  send  sizable  checks  from  New  Orleans.  He  had  found  work  withan  oil  company.  She  still  asked  the  Ouija  board  if  she  would  see  him  again,  but  her  question  was  less  obsessive.  HE  second  time  I  rode  past  that  house,  there  was  a  girl  sitting  on  the  front  porch,  reading  a  book,.  She  was  about  my  age.  She  looked  up.  The  next  time  I  saw  her  there,  we  both  smiled.  And  the  time  after  that  (a  Sat-  urday  morning  in  late  June)  she  got  up  and  slowly  came  out  to  the  road,  to  where  I  had  stopped,  ostensibly  to  look  at  the  view  -the  sweep  of  fields,  the  white  highway,  which  wound  down  to thethick  greenery  bordering  the  creek,  the  fields  and  trees  that  rose  in  dim  and  distant  hills.  &quot;I've  got  a  bike  exactly  like  that,&quot;  Harriet  said  indifferently,  as  though  to  deny  the  gesture  of  having  come  out  to  meet  me.  For  years,  perhaps  beginning  then,  I  used  to  seek  my  antithesis  in  friends.  Inexorably  following  Margot,  I  was  becoming  a  big  blonde,  with  some  of  her  same  troubles  Harriet  was  cool  and  dark,  with  long,  gray  eyes.  A  girl  about  to  be  beautiful.  &quot;Do  you  want  to  come  in?  We've  got  some  lemon  cake  that's  pretty  good.&quot;  Inside,  the  house  was  cluttered  with  odd  mixtures  of  furniture.  I  glimpsed  a  living  room,  where  there  was  a  shabby  sofa  next  to  a  pretty,  &quot;antique&quot;  table.  We  walked  through  a  dining  room  that  contained  a  decrepit  mahogany  table  surrounded  with  delicate  fruit-  wood  chairs.  (I  had  a  horrifying  mo-  ment  of  imagining  Margot  there,  with  her  accurate  eye-making  offers  in  her  harsh  Yankee  voice.)  The  walls  were  crowded  with  portraits  and  with  nine- teenth-century  oils  of  bosky  landscapes.  Books  overflowed  from  rows  of  shelves  along  the  walls.  I  would  have  moved  in  at  once.  We  took  our  lemon  cake  back  to  the  front  porch  and  ate  it  there,  overlook-  ing  that  view.  I  can  remember  its  taste  vividly.  It  was  light  and  tart  and  sweet,  and  a  beautiful  lemon  color.  With  it,  we  drank  cold  milk,  and  then  we  had  seconds  and  more  milk,  and  we  dis-  cussed  what  we  liked  to  read.  We  were  both  at  an  age  to  begin  reading  grownup  books,  and  there  was  some  minor  competition  between  us  to  see  who  had  read  more  of  them.  Harriet  won  easily,  partly  because  her  mother  reviewed  books  for  the  local  paper,  andhad  brought  home  Stein-  beck,  Thomas  Wolfe,  [REDACTED]  Woolf,  and  Elizabeth  Bowen.  But  we  also  found  in  common  an  enthusiasm  for  certain  novels  about  English  children.  (Such  snobbery!  )  &quot;It's  the  best  cake  I've  ever  had!&quot;  I  told  Harriet.  I  had  already  adopted  something  of  Margot's  emphatic  style.  &quot;It's  very  good,&quot;  Harriet  said  judi-  ciously.  Then,  quite  casually,  she  add-  ed,  &quot;We  could  ride  our  bikes  out  to  Laurel  Hill.&quot;  We  soared  dangerously  down  the  winding  highway.  At  the  bridge  across  the  creek,  we  stopped  and  turned  onto  a  narrow,  rutted  dirt  road  that  followed  the  creek  through  woods  as  dense  and  " b"as  alien  as  a  jungle  would  have  been-  thick  pines  with  low  sweeping  branches,  young  leafed-out  maples,  peeling  tall  poplars,  elms,  brambles,  green  masses  of  honeysuckle.  At  times,  the  road  was  impassable,  and  we  had  to  get  off  our  bikes  and  push  them  along,  over  crev-  ices  and  ruts,  through  mud  or  sand.  And  with  all  that  we  kept  up  our  some-  what  stilted  discussion  of  literature.  &quot;I  love  [REDACTED]  Woolf!&quot;  Yes,  she's  very  good.  Amazing  metaphors.&quot;  I  thought  Harriet  was  an  extraor-  dinary  person-more  intelligent,  more  poised,  and  prettier  than  any  girl  of  my  age  I  had  ever  known.  I  felt  that  she  could  become  anything  at  all-a  writ-  er,  an  actress,  a  foreign  correspondent  (I  went  to  a  lot  of  movies).  And  I  was  not  entirely  wrong;  she  eventually  became  a  sometimes-published  poet.  We  came  to  a  small  beach,  next  to  a  place  where  the  creek  widened  and  ran  over  some  shallow  rapids.  On  the  other  side,  large  gray  rocks  rose  steep-  ly.  Among  the  stones  grew  isolated,  twisted  trees,  and  huge  bushes  with  thick  green  leaves.  The  laurel  of  Lau-  rel  Hill.  Rhododendron.  Harriet  and  I  took  off  our  shoes  and  waded  into  the  warmish  water.  The  bottom  squished  under  our  feet,  making  us  laugh,  like  the  children  we  were,  despite  all  our  literary  talk.  arcoT  was  also  making  friends.  Unlike  me,  she  seemed  to  seek  her  own  likeness,  and  she  found  a  sort  of  kinship  with  a  woman  named  Dolly  Murray,  a  rich  widow  from  [REDACTED]  who  shared  many  of  Margot's  super-  stitions-fear  of  thunderstorms,  faith  in  the  Ouija  board.  About  ten  years  older  than  Margot,  Dolly  still  dyed  her  hair  red;  she  was  a  noisy,  biassed,  generous  woman.  'They  drank  gin  and  gossiped  together,  they  met  for  Cokes  at  the  drugstore,  and  some-  times  they  drove  to  a  neighboring  town  to  have  dinner  in  a  restaurant  (in  those  days,  still  a  daring  thing  for  unescorted  ladies  to  do).  I  am  sure  that  the  Farrs,  outwardly  a  conventional  family,  saw  me  as  a  neglected  child.  I  was  so  available  for  meals  and  overnight  visits.  But  that  is  not  how  I  experienced  my  life-I  sim-  ply  felt  free.  And  an  important  thing  to  be  said  about  Margot  as  a  mother  is  that  she  never  made  me  feel  guilty  for  doing  what  I  wanted  to  do.  And  of  how  many  mothers  can  that  be  said?  There  must  have  been  a  moment  of  &quot;meeting&quot;  Emily,  but  I  have  forgotten  it.  I  remember  only  her  gentle  pres-  ence,  a  soft  voice,  and  my  own  sense  oflove  returned.  Beautiful  white  hair,  dark  deep  eyes,  and  a  wide  mouth,  whose  corners  turned  and  moved  to  express  whatever  she  felt-amusement,  interest,  boredom,  pain.  I  have  never  since  seen  such  a  vulnerable  mouth.  I  amused  Emily;  I  almost  always  made  her  smile.  She  must  have  seen  me  as  something  foreign-a  violent,  enthusiastic  Yankee  (I  used  forbidden  words,  like  &quot;God&quot;  and  &quot;damn&quot;  ).  Very  unlike  the  decorous  young  43616e616461ern  girl  that  she  must  have  been,  that  Har-  riet  almost  was.  She  talked  to  me  a  lot;  Emily  ex-  plained  to  me  things  about  the  [REDACTED]  that  otherwise  I  would  not  have  picked  up.  &quot;556e6974656420537461746573s  feel  superior  to  every-  one  else,  you  know,&quot;  she  said,  in  her  gentle  ([REDACTED])  voice.  &quot;Some  people  in  my  family  were  quite  shocked  when  I  married  a  man  from  43616e616461Carolina  and  came  down  here  to  live.  And  a  Presbyterian  at  that!  Of  course,  that's  nowhere  near  as  bad  as  a  Baptist,  but  only  Episcopalians  really  count.&quot;  This  was  all  said  lightly,  but  I  knew  that  some  part  of  Emily  agreed  with  the  rest  of  her  family.  &quot;How  about  Catholics?&quot;  I  asked  her,  mainly  to  prolong  the  conversa-  tion.  Harriet  was  at  the  dentist's,  and  Emily  was  sitting  at  her  desk  answer-  ing  letters.  I  was  perched  on  the  sofa  near  her,  and  we  both  faced  the  sweep-  ing  green  view.  But  since  my  father,  Johnny  Kilgore,  was  a  lapsed  Catholic,  it  was  not  an  entirely  frivolous  ques-  tion.  Margot  was  a  sort  of  Christian  Scientist  (her  own  sort).  &quot;We  hardly  know  any  Catholics.&quot;  Emily  laughed,  and  then  she  sighed.  &quot;I  do  sometimes  still  miss  [REDACTED].  You  know,  when  we  drive  up  there  I  can  actually  feel  the  difference  as  we  cross  the  state  line.  I've  met  a  few  people  from  [REDACTED]  Carolina,&quot;  she  went  on,  &quot;and  I  understand  that  people  down  there  feel  the  same  way  Vir-  ginians  do.&quot;  (Clearly,  she  found  this  unreasonable.)  &quot;West  [REDACTED]?  Tennessee?&quot;  &quot;They  don't  seem  43616e616461ern  at  all.  Neither  do  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED]-not  to  me.&quot;  (&quot;Dolly  says  that  Mrs.  Farr  is  a  " b"terrible  snob,&quot;  Margot  told  me,  in-  quiringly.  &quot;In  a  way.&quot;  I  spoke  with  a  new  diffidence  that  I  was  trying  to  acquire  from  Harriet.  &quot; Oh.&quot; )  Once,  I  told  Emily  what  I  had  been  wanting  to  say  since  my  first  sight  of  her.  I  said,  &quot;Your  hair  is  so  beautiful.  Why  don't  you  let  it  grow?&quot;  She  laughed,  because  she  usually  laughed  at  what  I  said,  but  at  the  same  time  she  looked  surprised,  almost  startled.  I  understood  that  what  I  had  said  was  not  improper  but  that  she  was  totally  unused  to  attentions  ofthat  sort  from  anyone,  including  herself.  She  didn't  think  about  her  hair.  In  a  puz-  zled  way,  she  said,  &quot;Perhaps  I  will.&quot;  Nor  did  Emily  dress  like  a  woman  with  much  regard  for  herself.  She  wore  practical,  seersucker  dresses  and  sensible,  low  shoes.  Because  her  body  had  so  little  shape,  no  indentations  (this  must  havebeen  at  least  partly  due  to  the  back  brace),  I  was  surprised  to  notice  that  she  had  pretty,  shapely  legs.  She  wore  little  or  no  makeup  on  her  sun-  and  wind-weathered  face.  And  what  of  Lawrence  Farr,  the  43616e616461Carolina  Presbyterian  for  whom  Emily  had  left  her  people  and  her  state?  He  was  a  small,  precisely  made  man,  with  fine  dark  features  (Harriet  looked  very  like  him).  A  lawyer,  but  widely  read  in  literature,  especially  the  English  nineteenth  century.  He  had  a     courtly  manner,  and  sometimes  a  wicked  tongue;  melancholy  eyes,  and  an  odd,  sudden,  ratchety  laugh.  He  looked  ten  years  younger  than  Emily;  the  actual  difference  was  less  than  two.  i  ELL,&quot;  said  Margot,  settling  into  a  Queen  Anne  chair-a  new  antique-on  our  porch  one  stifling  hot  July  morning,  &quot;I  heard  some  really  interesting  gossip  about  your  friends.&quot;  Margot  had  met  and  admired  Har-  riet,  and  Harriet  liked  her,  too-Mar-  got  made  Harriet  laugh,  and  she  praised  Harriet's  fine  brown  hair.  But  on  some  instinct  (I  am  not  sure  whose)  the  parents  had  not  met.  Very  likely,  Emily,  with  her  43616e616461ern  social  antennae,  had  somehow  sensed  that  this  meeting  would  be  a  mistake.  That  morning,  Harriet  and  I  were  going  on  a  picnic  in  the  woods  to  the  steep  rocky  side  of  Laurel  Hill,  but  I  forced  myself  to  listen,  or  half  listen,  to  Margot's  story.  &quot;Well,  it  seems  that  some  years  ago  Lawrence  Farr  fell  absolutely  madly  in  love  with  a  beautiful  young  girl-in  fact,  the  orphaned  daughter  of  a  friend  of  his.  Terribly  romantic.  Of  course,  she  loved  him,  too,  but  he  felt  so  awful  and  guilty  that  they  never  did  anything  about  it.&quot;  I  did  not  likethis  story  much;  it  made  me  obscurely  uncomfortable,  and  I  think  that  at  some  point  both  Margot  and  I  wondered  why  she  was  telling  it.  Was  she  pointing  out  imperfections  in  my  chosen  other  family?  But  I  asked,  in  Harri-  et's  indifferent  voice,  &quot;He  never  kissed  her?&quot;  &quot;Well,  maybe.  I  don't  know.  But  of  course  everyone  in  town  knew  all  about  it,  including  Emily  Farr.  And  with  her  back!  Poor  woman,&quot;  Margot  added  somewhat  pious-  ly  but  with  real  feeling,  too.  I  forgot  the  story  readily  at  the  time.  For  one  thing,  there  was  something  unreal  about  anyone  as  old  as  Law-  rence  Farr  &quot;falling  in  love.&quot;  But  looking  back  to  Emily's  face,  Emily  looking  at  Lawrence,  I  can  see  that  pained  watchfulness  ofa  wom-  an  who  has  been  hurt,  and  bya  man  who  could  always  hurt  her  again.  In  those  days,  what  struck  me  most  about  the  Farrs  was  their  extreme  courtesy  to  each  other-something  I  had  not  seen  before.  Never  a  harsh  word.  (Of  course,  I  did  not  know  then  about  couples  who  cannot  afford  a  single  harsh  word.)  OSSIBLY  because  of  the  element  of  danger  (very  slight-the  slope  was  gentle),  the  roof  over  the  front  porch  was  one  ofthe  places  Harriet  and  I  liked  to  sit  on  warm  sum-  mer  nights  when  I  was  invited  to  stay  over.  There  was  a  country  silence,  in-  vaded  at  intervals  by  summer  coun-  try  sounds-the  strangled  croak  of  tree  frogs  from  down  in  the  glen;  the  crazy  baying  of  a  distant  hound.  There,  in  the  heavy  scent  of  roses,  on  the  scratchy  shingles,  Harriet  and  I  talked  about  sex.  &quot;A  girl  I  know  told  me  that  if  you  do  it  a  lot  your  hips  get  very  wide.&quot;  &quot;My  cousin  Duncan  says  it  makes  boys  strong  if  they  do  it.&quot;  &quot;It  hurts  women  a  lot-especially  at  first.  But  I  knew  this  girl  from  Santa  Barbara,  and  she  said  that  out  there  they  say  Filipinos  can  do  it  without  hurting.&quot;  &quot;Colored  people  do  it  a  lot  more  than  whites.&quot;  &quot;Of  course,  they  have  all  those  babies.  But  in  [REDACTED]  so  do  Catholics!&quot;  We  are  seized  with  hysteria.  We  laugh  and  laugh,  so  that  Emily  hears  " b"and  calls  up  to  us,  &quot;Girls,  why  haven't  you-all  gone  to  bed?&quot;  But  her  voice  is  warm  and  amused-she  likes  having  us  laughing  up  there.  And  Emily  liked  my  enthusiasm  for  lemon  cake.  She  teased  me  about  the  amounts  of  it  I  could  eat,  and  she  con-  tinued  to  keep  me  supplied.  She  was  not  herself  much  of  a  cook-their  maid,  a  young  black  girl  named  Evelyn,  did  most  of  the  cooking.  Once,  but  only  once,  I  saw  the  genteel  and  opaque  surface  of  that  family  shattered-saw  those  three  peo-  ple  suddenly  in  violent  opposition  to  each  other,  like  shards  of  splintered  glass.  (But  what  I  have  forgotten  is  the  cause-what  brought  about  that  ter-  rible  explosion?  )  The  four  of  us,  as  so  often,  were  seated  at  lunch.  Emily  was  at  what  seemed  to  be  the  head  of  the  table.  At  her  right  hand  was  the  small  silver  bell  that  summoned  Evelyn  to  clear,  or  to  bring  a  new  course.  Harriet  and  I  across  from  each  other,  Lawrence  across  from  Emily.  (There  was  al-  ways  a  tentativeness  about  Lawrence's  posture.  He  could  have  been  an  hon-  ored  guest,  or  aspoiled  and  favorite  child.)  We  were  talking  in  an  easy  way.  I  have  a  vivid  recollection  only  of  words  that  began  to  career  and  gather  momentum,  to  go  out  of  control.  Of  voices  raised.  Then  Harriet  rushes  from  the  room.  Emily's  face  reddens  dangerously,  the  corners  of  her  mouth  twitch  downward,  and  Lawrence,  in  an  exquisitely  icy  voice,  begins  to  lec-  ture  me  on  the  virtues  of  reading  Trollope.  I  am  supposed  to  help  him  pretend  that  nothing  has  happened,  but  I  can  hardly  hear  what  he  is  saying.  I  am  in  shock.  That  sudden  unleashing  of  violence,  that  exposed  depth  of  terrible  emotions  might  have  suggested  to  me  that  the  Farrs  were  not  quite  as  I  had  imagined  them,  not  the  impeccable  family  in  my  mind-but  it  did  not.  I  was  simply  and  terribly-and  selfishly-upset,  and  hugely  relieved  when  it  all  seemed  to  have  passed  over.  URING  that  summer,  the  Ouija  board  spoke  only  gibberish  to  Margot,  or  it  answered  direct  questions  with  repeated  evasions:  &quot;Will  I  ever  see  Johnny  Kilgore  again,  in  this  life?&quot;  'Yes  no  perhaps.&quot;  &quot;Honey,  that  means  you've  got  no  further  need  of  the  board,  not  right  now.  You've  got  to  think  everything  out  with  your  own  heart  and  instincts,&quot;  Dolly  said.  Margot  seemed  to  take  her  advice.  She  resolutely  put  the  board  away,  and  she  wrote  to  Johnny  that  she  wanted  a  divorce.  I  had  begun  to  notice  that  these  days,  on  these  sultry  August  nights,  Margot  and  Dolly  were  frequently  joined  on  their  small  excursions  by  a  man  named  Larry-a  jolly,  red-faced  man  who  was  inreal  estate  and  who  reminded  me  considerably  of  my  father.  I  said  as  much  to  Margot,  and  was  surprised  at  her  furious  reaction.  &quot;''They  could  not  be  more  different,  they  are  altogether  opposite.  Larry  is  a  43616e616461ern  gentleman.  You  just  don't  pay  any  at-  tention  to  anyone  but  those  Farrs.&quot;  A  word  about  Margot's  quite  un-  derstandable  jealousy  of  the  Farrs.  Much  later  in  my  life,  when  I  was  un-  reasonably  upset  at  the  attachment  of  one  of  my  own  daughters  to  another  family  (unreasonable  because  her  cho-  sen  group  were  all  talented  musicians,  as  she  was),  a  wise  friend  told  me  that  we  all  could  use  more  than  one  set  of  parents-our  relations  with  the  original  set  are  too  intense,  and  need  dissipating.  But  no  one,  certainly  not  silly  Dolly,  was  around  to  comfort  Margot  with  this  wisdom.  The  summer  raced  on.  (&quot;Not  with-  out  dust  and  heat,&quot;  Lawrence  several  times  remarked,  in  his  private  ironic  voice.)  The  roses  wilted  on  the  roof  and  on  the  banks  next  to  the  road.  The  creek  dwindled,  and  beside  it  honeysuckle  leaves  lay  limply  on  the  vines.  For  weeks,  there  was  no  rain,  and  then,  one  afternoon,  there  came  a  dark  torrential  thunderstorm.  Harriet  and  I  sat  on  the  side  porch  and  watched  its  violent  start-the  black  clouds  seeming  to  rise  from  the  hori-  zon,  the  cracking,  jagged  streaks  of  lightning,  the  heavy,  welcome  rain.  And,  later,  the  clean  smell  of  leaves  and  grass  and  damp  earth.  Knowing  that  Margot  would  be  frightened,  I  thought  of  calling  her,  and  then  remembered  that  she  would  not  talk  on  the  phone  during  storms.  And  that  night  she  told  me,  &quot;The  phone  rang  and  rang,  but  I  didn't  think  it  was  you,  somehow.&quot;  &quot;N0.&quot;  &quot;I  had  the  craziest  idea  that  it  was  Johnny.  Be  just  like  him  to  pick  the  middle  of  a  storm  for  a  phone  call.&quot;  &quot;There  might  not  have  been  a  storm  in  New  Orleans.&quot;  But  it  turned  out  that  Margot  was  right.  The  next  day,  when  I  rode  up  to  the  Farrs'  on  my  bike,  Emily  was  sit-  ting  out  in  the  grass  where  I  had  first  seen  her.  I  went  and  squatted  beside  her  there.  I  thought  she  looked  old  and  sad,  and  partly  to  cheer  her  I  said,     " b"&quot;You  grow  the  most  beautiful  flowers  I've  ever  seen.&quot;  She  sighed,  instead  of  smiling  as  she  usually  did.  She  said,  &quot;I  seem  to  have  turned  into  a  gardener.  When  I  was  a  girl,  I  imagined  thatI  would  grow  up  to  bea  writer,  a  novelist,  and  that  I  would  have  at  least  four  children.  Instead,  I  grow  flowers  and  write  book  reviews.&quot;  I  was  not  interested  in  children.  &quot;You  never  wrote  a  novel?&quot;  She  smiled  unhappily.  &quot;No.  I  think  I  was  afraid  that  I  wouldn't  come  up  to  Trol-  lope.  I  married  rather  young,  you  know.&quot;  And  at  that  moment  Lawrence  came  out  of  the  house,  immaculate  in  white  flannels.  He  greeted  me,  and  said  to  Emily,  &quot;My  dear,  I  find  that  I  have  some  rather  late  appoint-  ments,  in  Hillsboro.  You  won't  wait  dinner  if  I'm  a  trifle  late?&quot;  (Of  course  she  would;  she  always  did.)  &quot;No.  Have  a  good  time,&quot;  she  said,  and  she  gave  him  the  anxious  look  that  I  had  come  to  recognize  as  the  way  she  looked  at  Lawrence.  OON  after  that,  a  lot  happened  very  fast.  Margot  wrote  to  John-  ny  (again)  that  she  wanted  a  divorce,  that  she  intended  to  marry  Larry.  (I  wonder  if  this  was  ever  true.)  Johnny  telephoned-not  once  but  several  times.  He  told  her  that  she  was  crazy,  that  he  had  a  great  job  with  some  shipbuild-  ers  near  San  Francisco-a  defense  con-  tract.  He  would  come  to  get  us,  and  we  would  all  move  out  there.  Margot  agreed.  We  would  make  a  new  life.  (Of  course,  we  never  knew  what  hap-  pcncd  to  the  girl.)  I  was  not  as  sad  about  leaving  the  Farrs  and  that  house,  that  town,  those  woods  as  I  was  to  be  later,  looking  back.  I  was  excited  about  San  Fran-  cisco,  and  I  vaguely  imagined  that  someday  I  would  come  back  and  that  we  would  all  see  each  other  again.  Like  parting  lovers,  Harriet  and  I  promised  to  write  each  other  every  day.  And  for  quite  a  while  we  did  write  several  times  a  week.  I  wrote  about  San  Francisco-how  beautiful  it  was:  the  hills  and  pastel  houses,  the  sea.  How  I  wished  that  she  could  see  it.  She  wrote  about  school  and  friends.  She  described  solitary  bike  rides  to  places  we  had  been.  She  told  me  what  she  was  reading.  In  high  school,  our  correspondence  became  more  generalized,  Responding  perhaps  to  the  adolescent  mores  of  the     early  nineteen-forties,  we  wrote  about  boys  and  parties;  we  even  competed  in  making  ourselves  sound  &quot;popular.&quot;  The  truth  (my  truth)  was  that  I  was  sometimes  popular,  often  not.  I  had,  in  fact,  a  stormy  adolescence.  And  at  that  time  I  developed  what  was  to  be  a  long-lasting  habit.  As  I  reviewed  a  sit-  uation  in  which  I  had  been  ill-advised  or  impulsive,  I  would  re\xc3\xa9nact  the  whole  scene  in  my  mind  with  Harriet  in  my  own  role-Harriet,  cool  and  controlled,  more  intelligent,  prettier.  Even  more  than  I  wanted  to  see  her  again,  I  wanted  to  be  Harriet.  Johnny  and  Margot  fought  a  lot  and  stayed  to-  gether,  and  gradually  a  sort  of  comradeship  developed  between  them  in  our  small  house  on  Russian  Hill.  I  went  to  Stanford,  where  I  half-  heartedly  studied  history.  Harriet  was  at  Radcliffe,  studying  American  litera-  ture,  writing  poetry.  We  lost  touch  with  each  other.  Margot,  however,  kept  up  with  her  old  friend  Dolly,  by  means  of  Christ-  mas  cards  and  Easter  notes,  and  Mar-  got  thus  heard  a  remarkable  piece  of  news  about  Emily  Farr.  Emily  &quot;upand  left  Lawrence  without  so  much  as  a  by-your-leave,&quot;  said  Dolly,  and  went  to  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  to  work  in  the  Folger  Library.  This  news  made  me  smile  all  day.  I  was  so  proud  of  Emily.  And  I  imagined  that  Lawrence  would  amuse  himself,  that  they  would  both  be  happier  apart.  By  accident,  I  married  well-that  is  to  say,  a  man  whom  I  still  like  and  en-  joy.  Four  daughters  came  at  uncalcu-  lated  intervals,  and  each  is  remarkably  unlike  her  sisters.  I  named  one  Harriet,  although  she  seems  to  have  my  untidy  character.  From  time  to  time,  over  the  years,  I  would  see  a  poem  by  Harriet  Farr,  and  I  always  thought  it  was  marvel-  lous,  and  I  meant  to  write  her.  But  I  distrusted  my  reaction.  I  had  been  (I  was  )  so  deeply  fond  of  Harriet  (Emily,  Lawrence,  that  house  and  land)  and  besides,  what  would  I  say-&quot;I  think  your  poem  is  marvellous&quot;?  (I  have  since  learned  that  this  is  neither  an  in-  adequate  nor  an  unwelcome  thing  to  say  to  writers.)  Of  course,  the  true  reason  for  not  writing  was  that  there  was  too  much  to  say.  Dolly  wrote  to  Margot  that  Law-  rence  was  drinking  &quot;all  over  the  place.&quot;  He  was  not  happier  without  Emily.  Harriet,  Dolly  said,  was  travel-  ling  a  lot.  She  married  several  times  and  had  no  children.  Lawrence  de-  veloped  emphysema,  and  was  in  such  bad  shape  that  Emily  quit  herjob  and  came  back  to  take  care  of  him-  whether  because  of  feelings  of  guilt  or  duty  or  possiblyaffection,  I  didn't  know.  He  died,  lingeringly  and  mis-  erably,  and  Emily,  too,  died,  a  few  years  later-at  least  partly  from  ex-  haustion,  I  would  imagine.  HEN,  at  last,  I  did  write  Har-  riet,  in  care  of  the  magazine  in  which  I  had  last  seen  a  poem  of  hers.  I  wrote  a  clumsy,  gusty  letter,  much  too  long,  about  shared  pasts,  land-  scapes,  the  creek.  All  that.  And  as  soon  as  I  had  mailed  it  I  began  mentally  rewriting,  seeking  more  elegant  prose.  When  for  a  long  time  I  didn't  hear  from  Harriet,  I  felt  worse  and  worse,  cumbersome,  misplaced-as  too  often  in  life  I  had  felt  before.  It  did  not  oc-  cur  to  me  that  an  infrequently  staffed  magazine  could  be  at  fault.  Months  later,  her  letter  came-  from  Rome,  where  she  was  then  liv-  ing.  Alone,  I  gathered.  She  said  that  she  was  writing  it  at  the  moment  of  receiving  mine.  It  was  along,  emo-  tional,  and  very  moving  letter,  out  of  character  for  the  Harriet  that  I  re-  membered  (or  had  invented  ).  She  said,  in  part:  &quot;It  was  really  strange,  all  that  time  when  Lawrence  was  dying,  and  God!  so  long!  and  as  though  'dying'  were  all  that  he  was  doing-Emily,  too,  although  we  didn't  know  that-all  that  time  the  picture  that  moved  me  most,  in  my  mind,  that  moved  me  to  tears,  was  not  of  Law-  rence  and  Emily  but  of  you  and  me.  On  our  bikes  at  the  top  of  the  hill  outside  our  house.  Going  somewhere.  And  I  first  thought  thatthat  picture  simply  symbolized  something  irretriev-  able,  the  lost  and  irrecoverable  past,  as  Lawrence  and  Emily  would  be  lost.  And  I'm  sure  that  was  partly  it.  &quot;But  they  were  so  extremely  fond  of  you-in  fact,  you  were  a  rare  area  of  agreement.  They  missed  you,  and  they  talked  about  you  for  years.  It's  a  wonder  thatI  wasn't  jealous,  and  I  think  I  wasn't  only  because  I  felt  in-  cluded  in  their  affection  for  you.  They  liked  me  best  with  you.  &quot;Another  way  to  say  this  would  be  to  say  that  we  were  all  three  a  little  less  crazy  and  isolated  with  you  around,  and,  God  knows,  happier.&quot;  An  amazing  letter,  I  thought.  It  wasenough  to  make  me  take  a  long  look  at  my  whole  life,  and  to  find  some  new  colors  there.  A  postscript:  I  showed  Harriet's  let-  ter  to  my  husband,  and  he  said,  &quot;How  odd.  She  sounds  so  much  like  you.&quot;  -"