 b"BEFORE  theBattle  of  the  Wood  could  get  itself  going,  most  of  early  June  had  passed.  Origi-  nally,  headquarters  had  intended  the  confrontation  to  begin  on  1  June  ex-  actly.  But  messages  between  command-  ers  had  been  late  in  coming,  and  sup-  plies  were  delayed  on  the  way  to  the  front.  This  was  because  the  messengers  and  mule  drivers,  farm  boys,  took  their  time  in  crossing  the  countryside  of  new  summer.  Often  an  entire  supply  train-a  hundred,  perhaps  two  or  three  hundred  caissons-would  pull  off  the  road  onto  the  green  so  drivers  and  guards  could  swim  in  the  clean,  swirl-  ing  waters  of  a  little  river.  Messengers  dangled  along  the  ridges  walking  their  horses,  passing  slowly  through  the  leafy  fringe  and  perfect  climate.  There  was  no  galloping  along  the  white  roads.  Obsessions  about  buttoning  brass  but-  tons  had  passed,  and  all  the  young  men  in  the  army  were  red  and  tanned  the  beautiful  color  of  summer's  first  sun,  and  it  seemed  to  each  man  that  his  haircut  was  perfect  and  his  clothes  in  perfect  press.  There  was  a  blaze  then,  all  but  for  the  cool  evenings,  and  the  army  moving  in  great,  thin  lines  through  the  rich  green  from  one  place  to  another  was  like  a  fresh  blue  wake.  Of  the  many  soldiers  from  Maclean,  Virgin-  ia,  was  one  who  came  to  be  known  as  Jack  and  then  for  some  rea-  son  as  either  Jack  Ja-  pan  or  The  Glass.  In  [REDACTED]  in  this  time  of  summer  he  had  often  walked  along  the  stag-  nant  curve  of  the  river  to  the  war  cemetery,  where  he  lay  in  quiet  among  white  flags  and  lilies.  But  he  had  not  been  nearly  as  alive  as  he  was  now  be-  fore  the  Battle  of  the  Wood,  seemingly  all-  seeing  and  as  excited  as  the  thrushing  of  the  overhead  branches.  Be-  ginning  summer  was  always  good,  but  never  had  he  felt  so  strongly  his  life  and  its  every  moment:  riding  in  a  truck  with  two  rows  of  fellow-soldiers,  walk-  ing  to  the  river  and  just  standing  there  watching,  mounting  a  horse  and  seeing  the  saddle  close  up  as  his  body  bent  like  a  complexmachine  de-  signed  to  make  quick  curves,  being  in  the  shade,  eating  in  the  afternoon  when  it  was  cooler,  just  arising  and  facing  everything.  They  all  knew  they  were  on  the  eve  of  a  large  offensive.  There  had  been  a  fine  peace  for  too  long.  When  summer  burst  it  seemed  only  to  verify  great  change.  The  young  sol-  diers  were  afraid.  Carrion  had  survived  the  fall,  because  it  had  been  cold  and  dry,  and  then  the  winter,  and  then  spring.  Where  an  animal  had  settled,  a  paste  of  mud  and  dust  had  shielded  it,  and  the  cold  evenings  helped,  too.  But  by  June  carrion  infectedthe  woods  and  the  sides  of  the  roads.  The  coun-  tryside  was  thick  in  places  with  the  natural  smell  of  death-just  the  death  of  squirrels  and  other  small  hunted  ani-  mals,  but  it  was  enough  to  signal  the  men  of  a  waiting  army.  Orders  came  at  intervals,  so  that  Jack  spent  his  time  marching  into  the  stream  of  other  columns  and  making  many  new  camps,  one  more  beautiful  than  another.  Then  oneday  an  order  came  by  way  ofa  messenger  with  a  dark  face  and  black  sabre  mustache.  This  man  was  no  boy,  and  it  appeared  from  his  bearing  and  the  way  he  thrived  on  a  quick  gallop  and  the  sight  ofthe  road  before  him,  and  from  his  black  belts  crossing  the  spring  coat  of  the  uniform,  that  he  was  part  ofa  real  war  and  not  just  the  uneasy  dream  before  a  true  shattering  battle.  He  had  passed  through  the  camp  smiling,car-  rying  in  his  hand  a  white  paper  re-  questing  of  the  commander  half  a  hun-  dred  men  with  shovels  and  full  packs  to  be  on  burial  detail  for  one-quarter  of  one  unimportant  flank.  Burial  detail  struck  the  half  a  hundred  as  providen-  tial  and  yet  veryunlucky.  Unless  there  were  a  breakthrough  by  enemy  caval-  ry  and  long  and  terrible  sweeps,  they  would  be  safe.  The  job  was  not  good,  and  there  was  no  chance  for  seeing  the  battle  and  surviving  it  so  that  they  might  have  theparticular  elation  which  comes  from  getting  through  and  the  privilege  of  saying  to  women  that  they  had  been  there.  Burial  detail  cut  out  all  but  the  worst  of  liars  from  tavern  stories  and  made  soldierv  impossible  for  them  ever  again.  But  burial  detail  it  was  to  be,  so  they  formed  their  ranks,  which  broke  quickly  when  it  was  discov-  ered  that  there  were  shovels  for  only  a  few.  Everyone  ran  off  in  a  different  direction  to  search  the  barns  and  board-  ed-up  houses,  hoping  to  come  upon  a  young  girl,  or  a  wife,  bathing  naked  in  a  river  or  lying  in  the  sun  with  only  a  thinsheet,  trying  to  look  beautiful  and  get  the  golden  hair  to  shine.  Jack  thought  how  nice  the  women  of  [REDACTED]  looked  in  the  light  of  candles  after  they  had  been  in  the  sun  all  day  working  or  just  staying  bythe  river.  But  they  found  no  women  at  all-only  shovels  in  such  great  number  that  they  left  many  behind  with  com-  rades  whom  they  hoped  with  all  their  hearts  not  to  see  dur-  ing  the  battle.  They  marched  off  back  in-  to  the  quiet  country  whence  they  had  come  and  where  they  saw  no  cannon  or  troops,  or  even  telegraph  lines.  They  said  little,  pre-  ferring  to  walk  quietly  and  take  in  the  sun,  which  during  the  aft-  ernoon  stared  right  in  their  faces  as  they  marched  below  great  flourient  oaks  and  trees  with  blooming  flow-  ers.  Then  they  came  to  a  wide  field.  On  the  " b"northern  half  ofa  small  green  prairie  werehundreds  of  dressing  stations  round  white  tents  in  orderly  rows.  They  looked  like  mushrooms.  And  they  were  far  away,  so  that  it  was  hard  to  make  out  the  red  crosses.  The  burial  detail  entered  the  field  from  the  east  and  walked  away  from  the  tents  to  a  row  of  straight  trees  in  the  south  to  set  up  camp.  Behind  these  trees  was  a  smaller  field  of  about  an  acre.  'They  discovered  that  the  heavy  brush  bordering  it  on  three  sides  was  laden  with  blackberries  and  songbirds  and  hives  of  bees.  It  took  only  a  few  hours  to  pitch  ten  tents,  get  a  good  supply  of  wood,  find  water,  and  have  an  inspection.  Their  uniforms  were  clean  and  they  had  eaten.  Given  the  afternoon  off,  some  went  into  the  brush  to  brave  the  bees  and  gather  black-  berries  for  themselves  and  for  the  cook,  who  had  the  other  things  to  make  a  pic  but  lacked  a  filling.  Some  went  to  a  small  stream  and,  even  though  it  was  too  shallow  for  swimming,  let  the  water  course  over  them  while  they  looked  up  at  the  pines  on  the  steep  bank.  Jack  4a6170616e,  The  Glass,  filled  a  bag  with  pine  needles  and  he  and  some  others  kicked  it  around  the  smaller  field,  where  the  graves  would  be.  They  had  only  to  wait.  After  a  short  cold  dinner  they  drank  their  coffee  and  became  aware  of  the  nurses.  Across  the  field  they  could  see  nurses  in  almost  glowing  white  making  quick  lines  from  tent  to  tent.  The  lieutenant  used  his  telescope  to  report  that  the  women  near  the  fires  were  staring  downfield  at  the  opposing  ranks  of  flame.  On  both  sides  ofthe  meadow  hands  went  up  to  fix  hair  and  straighten  collars.  Then,  per-  haps  because  it  was  wartime,  and  also  because  they  had  been  there  first,  about  a  hundred  of  the  nurses  began  to  walk  slowly  into  the  dark.  They  came  from  all  along  the  line,  two  or  three  carry-  ing  lanterns  that  showed  the  gentle  night  breeze.  At  the  gravediggers',  it  was  as  if  an  enemy  army  were  con-  verging.  The  men  felt  frightened  at  being  still,  so  a  number  of  them  set  out  for  the  middle,  and  after  a  little  while  the  rest  followed.  They  met  and  strolled  back  to  the  dressing  stations  in  a  lighthearted  manner,  as  if  they  were  not  a  contingent  of  nurses  and  grave-  diggers  but  just  young  men  and  young  women  at  a  June  ball.  There  was  easy  laughing  of  the  kind  when  people  do  not  know  one  another  and  yet  want  to.  Billy  Fair  took  his  five-stringed  banjo  from  a  black  case  he  had  been  carrying  strapped  to  his  back  like  a  rifle,  and  he  played  for  a  long  time  and  put  everyone  at  ease.  They  wished  they  had  some  wine,  but  there  was  none.  Although  many  were  complimented  by  their  uniforms,  none  saw  the  uni-  forms-just  the  faces  of  those  across  the  fires.  For  years  they  had  all  worn  bits  and  pieces  of  uniforms  from  surplus  and  had  craved  them&quot;  But  in  full  dress,  with  real  insignia,  they  felt  a  good  deal  less  romantic.  A  girl  imagined  herself  in  a  white  gown,  and  a  boy  there  wanted  to  be  wearing  a  fine  dark  suit  with  a  flower.  Beyond  the  fires,  moon-  whitened  grass  touched  like  a  girl's  hand  to  music  in  all  directions  because  of  the  night  breeze.  HE  nurses  had  little  to  do,  for  the  battle  had  not  started,  and  soon  there  was  a  free  exchange  with  the  burial  detail,  and  swimming  and  field- day  games.  They  took  walks  into  the  forest,  where  they  saw  deer  and  her-  ons,  where  everything  was  hot  and  nature  was  fast  music  moving  to  ex-  cite  them.  Jack  took  up  with  a  French-  Canadian  nurse  named  Montay,  who  swam  with  himand  told  him  that  the  herons  in  the  small  lake  were  not  loons.  He  hardly  knew  her,  for  she  and  he  shared  a  gloss  as  if  in  a  dream,  some-  thing  they  didn't  mind  at  all,  because  they  could  dream  breakers  out  in  the  field-so  unreal  was  his  life,  the  life  of  a  conscripted  soldier  in  an  enormous  field  where  the  men  were  served  black-  berry  pies  and  sunburned  nurses  glided  across  in  evening  to  sit  by  the  fires  and  sit  by  the  men  they  found,  who  found  them,  too.  One  day,  a  doctor  walked  across  the  field  to  speak  with  the  tall  lieutenant.  In  his  clean  white  tunic,  the  doctor  pointed  to  the  small  field  and  indicated  how  he  wanted  the  graves.  He  wanted  five  pits:  thirty  feet  long,  ten  feet  wide,  and  eight  feet  deep.  He  advised  him  to  start  right  away,  because  he  had  heard  that  the  offensive  was  due  to  " b"begin  any  time.  Since  they  faced  a  well-fortified  enemy  it  was  necessary  to  prepare  for  heavy  casualties.  The  graves  would  take  three  hundred-good  enough  for  the  first  few  days,  at  least.  Quickly  they  began  to  dig,  ten  to  a  grave,  and  the  lieutenant  did  not  supervise  but  removed  his  tunic  and  worked  beside  the  men.  Nor  was  there  any  military  discipline,  for  they  thought  of  themselves  as  gravediggers,  and  what  a  world  it  would  be  if  grave-  diggers  were  disciplined.  Soldiering  for  them  was  already  dead  and  worn.  They  looked  fine,  though,  in  striped  military  pants  with  suspenders  hang  ing  down  their  thighs.  It  took  them  two  days  of  digging  in  silence  to  finish,  for  in  some  places  the  ground  was  hard.  Then  a  messenger  galloped  into  the  dressing  station  and  fires  were  lit  in  preparation  for  the  wounded,  who  ar-  rived  within  a  few  hours.  During  the  first  night,  Jack  lay  on  his  blanket  and  watched  the  fires  and  lanterns  across  the  field.  Ambulances  came  often,  shining  their  lights  on  the  tents.  There  were  many  fires;  it  became  hot  in  the  nights,  and  he  wondered  if  Nurse  Montay,  whom  he  hardly  knew  and  whom  he  missed  though  she  was  just  on  the  other  side  of  the  enamelled  green,  was  sweating  by  the  night  fires  as  she  worked.  In  the  daytime  the  first  dead  were  brought  on  hideous  blood-soaked  stretchers.  The  men  were  white,  and  Jack  lowered  them  without  shrouds  into  the  graves.  At  night,  he  stared  at  the  fires  and  then  at  the  great  over-  flowing  masses  of  high  white  stars  above  him  in  untangled  black.  They  trailed  the  sky  and  brought  morning.  He  made  more  graves,  did  not  bother  to  wash,  and  found  that  his  clothes  were  filthy.  Every  day  the  ambulances  became  more  numerous.  The  battle  had  swung  their  way.  It  was  hot,  and  it  got  hotter,  and  they  had  no  beer.  On  their  last  evening  there,  when  graves  covered  the  small  clearing,  as  if  in  a  dream  a  nurse  rode  up  on  a  sweaty  brown  mare.  The  mare's  saddle  and  blanket  were  soaked  into  blackness,  and  the  nurse  was  covered  with  layersof  mud  and  dust  which  made  her  clothes  and  face  the  telling  pea-green  color  of  an  army  road.  Her  white  uniform  and  its  blue,  chevron-shaped,  gently  falling  collar  were  splattered  up  to  her  hair,  which  was  golden  and  had  retained  its  sheen.  The  gravediggers  gathered  around  her;  one  held  the  bridle  of  her  horse  and  comforted  it,  for  it  was  in  profound  exhaustion.  The  silent  men  could  see  that  she  was  selfless,  that  she  had  been  battered,  and  that  she  had  come  from  the  front,  where  they  knew  the  machines  were  working  which  sent  them  their  dead.  She  had  retained  her  beauty  though  she  was  gray  and  color-  less  but  for  her  hair,  and  her  mouth  was  especially  exquisite  and  her  teeth  white.  It  was  painful  pleasure  to  watch  her  speak.  &quot;Is  there  anything  we  can  do?'&quot;  said  Jack  after  a  long  silence,  and  they  all  waited  for  her  answer.  ''Yes,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;yes  ...  'Tell  us,&quot;  said  another  soldier.  &quot;I  am  looking  for  my  husband.  He  was  on  the  line,  and  then  he  was  wounded  and  they  brought  him  to  my  dressing  station.  He  had  influenza  as  well.  I  was  gone  for  just  a  little  while,  but  when  I  returned  his  bed  was  emp-  ty.  I  was  wondering,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;I  was  wondering  .  ..&quot;  And  then  she  cast  her  eyes  level  to  the  acre  of  buried  dead  and  stared  for  a  long  time,  along,  long  time,  during  which  there  was  silence  and  they  could  hear  the  steady  blows  of  an  axe  across  the  field.  Fires  burned  to  her  left  and  to  her  right;  the  horse  was  no  longer  winded,  and  she  herself  seemed  to  sit  straight  as  an  officer.  One  of  the  men  took  off  his  hat,  and,  gesturing.  toward  the  graves,  looked  downward  as  if  in  shame  and  said,  &quot;These  are  mass  graves,  Ma'am.&quot;  And  as  if  they  had  never  existed  she  pulled  her  horse  around,  spurred  her,  and  went  out  to  the  road.  The  men  remembered  only  that  she  had  been  high  above  them  and  that  her  expres-  sion  had  been  hard.  iH  HE  following  morning,  when  they  had  buried  more  than  a  thou-  sand  men,  the  cook  announced  that  his  " b"blackberry  wine,  although  sweet  and  young,  was  ready  to  drink.  It  was  very  intoxicating.  Jack  had  learned  to  distinguish  the  men  he  buried.  Some  he  could  see  were  killed  by  machine-gun  fire,  some  by  shrapnel,  some  by  disease.  Some  were  officers,  some  had  been  dead  a  long  time,  some  looked  like  people  he  knew,  and  some  even  looked  like  himself.  They  drank  wine  because  there  was  no  breakfast,  and  they  became  ex-  tremely  drunk.  A  dead  soldier  in  blue  and  red  was  entrusted  to  Jack,  who  be-  gan  to  talk  to  him.  He  spoke  to  him  as  if  he  were  alive,  and  as  if  the  body  were  a  drunken  friend  he  carried  him  to  a  grave  and  dumped  him  in,  saying,  &quot;In  you  go.&quot;  Digging  was  not  so  easy  with  the  wine,  but  he  worked  hard,  smashing  his  shovel  fiercely  and  ineffectively  at  the  ground  by  the  field's  edge,  where  there  were  rocks,  since  it  had  gone  unplowed  in  peacetime.  Every  few  minutes,  the  cook  came  around  with  a  huge  bottle  and  poured  wine  into  the  men  and  the  graves.  As  they  were  covering  the  last  grave,  and  reluctant  to  start  another,  they  noticed  that  in  the  other  field  the  white  tents  were  folding.  An  endless  line  of  ambulances  came  to  take  away  the  wounded.  In  less  than  an  hout  everyone  from  the  north  side  of  the  field  was  gone.  There  was  no  smoke-  no  fires  either.  The  gravediggers  were  astonished.  They  did  not  fearthat  the  enemy  would  close  in,  because  they  had  heard  that  he  had  been  defeated.  They  had  won.  In  their  drunkenness  they  could  think  of  nothing  to  do  but  pat  down  the  earth  of  the  twelve  raised  mounds  in  the  small  field.  They  packed  it  down  with  their  feet  after  they  had  finished  the  last  of  the  wine.  They  went  back  and  forth  over  the  red  clay  until  silver  clouds  of  dust  arose  in  the  sun  and  the  sun  had  sunk  low  andbecome  all  red.  The  wine  was  gone,  and  so  were  the  nurses;  the  graves  were  packed  down.  Some  soldiers  went  to  bathe  in  the  stream  and  wash  their  clothes.  Some,  like  Jack,  went  to  different  parts  of  the  field,  where  in  the  smoky  redeve-  ning  of  what  had  been  a  clear  yellow  day  they  threw  themselves  down  on  the  grass  and  awakened  much  later  to  see  no  fires,  no  lanterns,  but  only  the  high  indifferent  stars.  "