 b"TODAY  I  joined  the  team-the  I  Chicago  Liens,  a  nifty  little  ex-  pansion  club  that  the  sports  pages  of  The  Law  Journal  have  said  &quot;may  be  on  the  scene  for  many  weeks  to  come.&quot;  As  the  Journal's  readers  are  well  aware,  I  came  to  the  Liens  di-  rectly  from  Joan  of  Arc  Junior  High,  signing  for  an  unspecified  amount  of  cash,  five  thousand  Triple  S  Blue  Stamps,  and  a  chit  for  a  uniform  to  be  issued  the  moment  the  laundry  is  paid.  Our  first  game  is  tonight,  against  the  Boston  Floaters,  in  the  back  yard  at  308  West  Forty-ninth  Street,  and  the  boys  are  kind  of  tense,  because  we  don't  know  if  we'll  be  playing  hockey  or  basketball;  all  the  market  research  isn't  inyet.  At  any  rate,  whatever  we  play,  we'll  be  plenty  fired  up,  because  this  week's  owner,  the  House  of  Chan,  has  promised  us  each  a  sparerib  for  every  fan  we  can  put  in  the  stands.  We  know,  of  course,  that  the  Floaters,  who  just  moved  their  franchise  from  Bimini  in  the  old  Accordion  League,  will  be  highly  motivated,  too,  because  their  new  owner,  AMTRAK,  promised  them  a  dollar  a  basket-that  is,  if  we  are  playing  basketball.  I  just  hope  that  thedecision  will  be  made  in  plenty  of  time,  so  there  won't  be  any  ice  in  the  three-second  lane.  NoveEemBEr  14  BASKETBALL  it  was,  but  we  still  used  our  power  play,  because  the  Floaters  were  one  man  short.  It  turned  out  that  their  entire  bench  was  under  an  injunction  from  the  Accordion  League,  and  their  starting  left  guard  decided  toskip  the  game  in  favor  of  burning  some  subpoenas  with  his  at-  torney.  Having  an  extra  man  did  give  us  an  edge,  I  admit,  but  it  only  made  up  for  the  way  that  the  Floaters  had  tried  to  unnerve  us  by  changing  their  name  to  the  Montauk  Motleys,  on  whom  we  had  no  scouting  report.  More-  over,  the  only  official  on  hand  was  a  bankruptcy  referee,  and  he  was  lousy  under  the  boards.  I  have  no  idea  how  many  ribs  we  earned.  We  drew  almost  two  hundred  fans,  but  only  thirty-two  were  paid,  because  our  own-  er  had  issued  comps  for  all  veterans,  Spanish  teachers,  and  heterosexuals.  Drecemser  16  ERRIFIC  news!  We'll  be  mak-  ing  the  playoffs  even  if  we  lose  all  the  rest  of  our  games,  because  seven  teams  just  dropped  out  of  the  league  in  an  attempt  to  regain  their  amateur  standing  in  the  P.S.A.L.  Only  three  teams  are  left,  and  the  Liens  have  the  bye  right  now,  so  we  don't  know  if  oursecond  regular-season  game  will  come  before  or  after  the  end  of  the  fiscal  year.  However,  the  Ap-  pellate  Division  says  that  we  don't  have  to  play  it  until  our  new  owner,  Three  Sisters  Moving  and  Storage,  puts  the  right  date  on  our  checks.  DeceemsEr  17  T  turns  out  that  we  will  definitely  have  a  second  game  before  the  playoffs,  and  it  will  be  either  tonight  or  April  26th  against  the  Interstate  95s,  who  used  to  be  the  Erie  Eclectics  of  the  old  Hobey  Baker  League.  The  boys  aren't  worried  too  much  about  the  95s,  of  course,  because  more  than  half  of  us  used  to  be  them;  it's  really  an  intra-  muralgame.  There's  much  more  talk  about  the  playoffs,  which  begin  on  June  29th  in  the  Radio  City  rehearsal  hall,  with  complete  coverage  by  Sta-  tion  WNCN,  which  won  the  air-rights  package  after  some  spirited  bidding  against  Public  Access  Channel  D.  DrceEmsBEr  27  E  played  the  95s  last  night  on  the  roof  of  the  Hotel  Dixie.  We  lost  by  fifty-eight  points,  but  the  boys  were  well  aware  that  the  game  was  meaningless-except,  of  course,  as  pub-  licity  for  our  new  owner,  Master  Charge.  It  would  have  been  hard  to  concentrate  on  winning  anyway,  be-  cause  of  all  the  halftime  speeches  that  we  got.  First  our  agent  came  in  and  said  that  those  of  us  with  two  or  more  deductible  dependents  would  be  in  a  better  tax  position  if  we  didn't  play  the  second  half.  Then  a  Master  Charge  guy  came  in  and  said  that  releasing  our  pay  was  still  a  possibility  but  meanwhile  the  starting  center  and  both  guards  could  have  a  credit-line  increase  of  seven  hundred  dollars  each.  And  then  the  most  inspiring  speech  of  all:  our  defensive  lawyer  came  in,  got  up  on  a  stool,  and  yelled,  Gimme  an  E,  gimme  an  S,  gimme  a  C-R-O!  Gimme  a  W-that's  where  the  profits  go!  January  24  UR  designated  accountant  just  gave  us  a  bulletin  on  the  play-  offs.  They  may  have  to  be  the  best  out  of  one,  because  William  Buckley  has  reluctantly  announced  that  WNCN  is  converting  to  an  all-weather-forecast  format,  and  the  game  rights  have  been  grabbed  off  by  the  studio  radio  station  at  'The  Dalton  School.  Never  mind!  We're  all  going  to  be  way,  way  up  for  this  one!  Not  only  isit  for  the  championship  ofthe  entire  Major  Deegan  Expressway,  but  it  will  also  constitute  the  swan  song  for  Slats  O'Meara,  our  All  Expansion  cen-  ter,  who  has  decided  to  enroll  at  the  Sorbonne,  where  he  can  make  more  dough. "