 b"IT  was  watching  a  house  martin  that  kept  me  alone  for  a  while  in  this  room.  We'd  just  had  dinner.  I  ran  upstairs  to  fetch  a  handkerchief,  and  there  was  the  bird  hovering  outside  the  window.  The  tips  of  its  wings  were  almost  brushing  against  the  dusty  glass  for  an  instant  before  it  disappeared  up  into  its  nest  under  the  eaves.  Within  seconds,  I  saw  the  bird  again.  It  fell  back  into  view  and,  as  if  following  the  curve  of  some  invisible  slide,  skimmed  down  toward  the  end  of  the  garden.  Almost  at  once,  it  was  back  at  the  window,  to  hover  and  then  disappear  once  more.  Its  breast  had  the  sheen  of  white  satin.  In  the  May  sunshine,  the  martin  was  repairing  its  nest,  bringing  soft  mud  from  besidethe  pond.  Most  years,  we  have  martins  and  swallows  under  the  eaves;  some  make  entirely  new  nests,  but  others  make  good  the  ones  left  from  the  summer  before.  I  sat  down  in  the  armchair  I  leave  my  clothes  on  at  night,  and  watched  the  bird  make  a  few  more  journeys.  I'd  not  sat  in  that  chair  since  we  moved  into  this  house,  seven  years  ago.  When  we  came  here  from  a  much  smaller  house,  we  bought  new  furni-  ture  for  the  living  room,  and  this  chair  was  relegated  upstairs.  It  has  bare  wood  arms,  a  seat  of  foam  rubber,  small  wings-what  is  described  in  salesrooms  as  a  TV  chair.  I  felt  comfortable  in  it;  maybe  I'd  take  it  down  to  my  study,  where  its  gray  fabric  would  go  well  with  a  many-colored  wall  of  books.  But  then  if  I  did  that  I  should  have  to  bring  up  one  of  the  old  kitchen  chairs  to  hang  my  clothes  on.  This  one  was  perfect  forthe  job-trousers,  held  by  friction,  did  not  slip  from  its  back  to  the  floor;  jackets  (for  I  am  unusually  broad  in  the  chest)  were  made  to  measure  for  its  stump   -  a  wings;  the  arms  were  &amp;  of  a  convenient  height  -  for  me  when  I  was  lacing  shoes.  I  made  a  r  apid  calculation.  More  than  two  and  a  half  thousand  times  Id  draped  trousers  and  jackets  on  it,  flung  shirt,  tie,  and  underwear  on  it.  I  didn't  really  need  another  chair  in  my  study.  I'd  keep  things,  after  all,  a  s  they  were.  By  now,  I'd  lost  interest  in  the  fluttering  bird.  I  glanced  around  at  the  rest  of  the  furniture  in  this  un-  accustomed  room.  There,  in  one  al-  cove,  was  my  wife's  wardrobe.  It's  a  stately,  Edwardian  item  in  dark  ma-  hogany-tall,  panelled,  with  carved  ro-  settes  and  brass  fittings-which  I  bought  for  a  few  pounds  at  an  auction  sale  and  carried  home  in  sections  on  top  of  the  car  the  week  we  moved  in.  I'd  not  appraised  its  handsomeness  since  we  assembled  it,  dusted  it  out,  fitted  the  linen  drawer,  which  smelled  of  lavender  grown  in  somebody's  gar-  den  before  the  Battle  of  the  [REDACTED].  I  opened  the  doors,  parted  my  wife's  dresses,  saw  behind  them  the  faded  floral  pattern  of  the  lining  paper-ele-  gant,  worth  looking  at.  And  in  the  other  alcove  was  my  wardrobe,  more  workaday,  more  squat,  thirtyish,  light  oak.  I'd  been  given  it  by  a  man  dead  these  five  years.  It  has  shelves  and  drawers  on  the  left-hand  side  marked  &quot;Shirts,&quot;  &quot;Ties,&quot;  &quot;Hats,&quot;  and  so  on.  I  keep  everything  in  the  wrong  com-  partments.  Hatless,  I  use  the  top  shelf  for  miscellaneous  objects  that  I  don't  need  but  that  aretoo  good  to  throw  away-a  battery-operated  razor,  a  sunray  lamp,  a  papier-m@ch\xc3\xa9  snuffbox  containing  shirt  studs.  On  the  floor  of  the  wardrobe  I  noticed  a  pair  of  walk-  ing  shoes  I'd  forgotten  I  had.  It  was  high  time  I  sorted  through  my  clothes,  throwing  out  the  stuf  I  no  longer  wore.  It  felt  extraordinary,  poking  about  in  this  room  in  the  early  evening,  being  aware  of  it  and  its  contents  in  a  way  I  never  had  been  before.  Sunlight  en-  tered  it  as  it  does  not  in  the  mornings,  picking  out  unusual  surfaces.  This  was  almost  somebody  else's  room.  It  was  the  one  room  in  the  house  we'd  not  bothered  to  redecorate.  We  slept  here,  washed  and  dressed,  prepared  to  go  out  of  an  evening,  made  love,  sometimes  mildly  quarrelled  in  the  dark.  There,  on  the  bedside  tables,  were  the  books  we  were  current-ly  reading:  my  wife's  Maigret,  my  Collected  Yeats.  We  were  other  people  when  we  came  into  this  room.  In  bed  (I  studied  the  design  of  the  Welsh  tapestry  bed-  spread),  we  were  concerned  with  nothing  in  the  room  beyond  where  our  limbs  would  reach.  Otherwise,  it  was  simply  an  area  in  which  to  prepare  for  another  day,  another  social  evening.  I  thought  of  myself  shaving  at  that  sink,  looking  into  that  mirror.  There  were  my  toothbrush,  my  bottle  of  after-shave,  waiting  until  I  should  use  them  next.  It  was  stupid,  my  being  here  now,  for  the  wrong  reasons.  I  was  astonishing  the  furniture.  Remembering  why  I'd  come,  I  took  a  handkerchief  from  its  drawer.  Nor-  mally,  this  would  have  been  a  reflex  action  like  blinking  the  eyes;  but  now  that  the  martin  had  kept  me  here-the  bird  was  still  coming  and  going-I  had  to  stop,  and  think,  and  remember  to  open  the  drawer  marked  &quot;Collars.&quot;  Then,  for  a  second  or  two,  I  stared  at  the  drawer  marked  &quot;Handkerchiefs,&quot;  persuading  myself  that  it  did  indeed  contain  socks-that  I  didn't  have  to  check.  Outside,  on  the  lawn,  my  chil-  dren  were  arguing  over  who  should  bat  first  in  a  game  of  cricket.  I  moved  away  from  the  window,  lest  they  see  me  up  here.  They'd  call  me  down,  and  I  didn't  want  to  go  yet.  I  lay  on  the  bed,  stared  at  a  vase  on  the  chest  of  drawers.  That  vase  had  never  con-  tained  flowers,  as  far  as  I  could  recall.  As  a  young  bache-  lor  straight  out  of  university,  1d  lain  like  this  for  twenty  minutes  or  so  after  cooking  some  rudimentary  snack  of  an  evening.  Those  [REDACTED]  bed-sits  There  was  never  a  truly  comfortable  chair-you  had  to  lie  on  the  bed  or  sprawl  against  threadbare  cushions  on  the  floor.  You'd  look  up  at  the  grubby  ceiling,  tracing  the  map  of  Asia  in  the  marks  of  damp.  You'd  count  your  pathetic  possessions;  the  suitcase  on  top  of  the  wardrobe  would  hold  all  you  owned.  There  was  always  somewhere  else  to  go  when  you  were  sick  of  it-  similar  in  its  dinginess,  but  somewhere  else.  The  cooking  area  and  the  sink  were  curtained  off  with  stained  and  shrivelling  plastic  hangings,  but  there  was  no  illusion  of  having  more  than  one  box  to  be  in.  The  bathrooms  were  always  occupied,  or,  if  not,  were  fes-  tooned  with  the  dripping  laundry  of  other  lodgers.  There  was  nowhere  to  go  but  elsewhere,  paying  a  week's  rent  in  lieu  of  notice,  and  humping  the  suit-  case  once  more  along  streets  of  drab  stucco  villas,  or  onto  a  bus,  or  down  leaf-slippery  steps  to  the  Tube.  One  had  lived  through  that  cheerfully  enough,  twenty  years  ago.  Occasional-  ly  (how  different  it  all  was  then)  you  might  smuggle  in  some  girl,  who  must  be  smuggled  out  again  in  the  early  hours  before  there  were  even  milkmen  on  the  streets;  and  then  those  rooms  for  a  week  or  two  would  seem  special  places-always  to  be  remembered,  in  fine  detail,  for  what  had  happened  in  them.  But  before  long  it  would  be  another  girl,  another  room,  a  room  whose  awfulness  had  to  be  borne  those  few  weeks  longer  than  one's  loneliness  could  easily  bear.  Later,  after  the  three-week  honey-  moon  room  in  the  Bernese  Oberland  " b"(that  balcony  where  we  had  Ca  pe-  gooseb  e  rry  jam  for  breakfast:  the  wasps),  there  were  so  many  two-  roomed  flats  in  such  a  short  space  of  time  that  I  no  longer  re  member  each  from  each,  or  the  order  in  which  they  came.  Then  there  was,  for  a  five-year  spell  during  which  the  children  were  born,  a  bedroom  in  the  house  I  b  ought  so  tiny  that  we  had  to  keep  our  clothes  in  a  cupboard  on  the  landing.  All  I  can  bring  back  to  mind  is  its  tininess.  Perhaps  it  had  pink  walls.  And  now  there's  this  room.  Had  I  not  made  this  impromptu  survey  this  evening,  I'd  have  been  hard  pressed  to  give  an  accurate  inventory  of  what  its  walls  enclose-unlikely  as  this  must  seem.  As  I  lay  on  the  bed  (I  slipped  off  my  shoes),  I  made  another  calcu-  lation.  Probably  I  spend  nine  hours  out  of  every  twenty-four  in  here:  eight  hours  of  sleep,  including  lovemaking;  half  an  hour's  reading;  thirty  minutes  more  dressing,  undressing,  groom-  ing.  Twenty-three  thousand  hours  I've  spent  here,  and  I  hardly  know  the  place.  Look-the  bottom  left-hand  knob  is  loose  on  the  dressing  table.  There's  a  dark  stain  on  the  carpet  near  the  door.  My  wife  must  see  all  this  in  entirely  different  terms,  I  realized  then.  She  would  be  on  intimate  terms  with  the  room  in  which  I  was  merely  a  stranger  or  a  guest.  I  thought  of  her,  weekdays,  the  house  abruptly  empty,  its  rooms  all  bearing  the  traces  of  what  we'd  been  doing  in  them,  What  would  she  be  thinking  (thinking  about  me)  as  she  made  this  bed  of  ours,  replaced  the  towels,  Hoovered  the  floor,  dust-  ed  tho  se  three  alabaster  elephants  I  brought  home  from  [REDACTED]  last  year?  She  has  to  do  some  of  her  living  in  her  e.  All  those  bottles,  pots,  brushes,  and  things  on  the  dressing  table;  she  uses  them  several  times  a  day,  She  sits  there,  sees  herself  in  the  three  mir-  rors,  paints  her  nails  Nights,  while  I  am  already  in  bed  reading,  she  sits  there  for  minutes  after  she's  finished  brushing  her  hair,  doing  nothing  in  particular.  Staring.  Thinking.  From  " b"time  to  time,  she  suggests  we  ought  to  repaper  the  room,  g  ive  it  a  lick  of  p  aint.  For  her  sake-for  those  minutes  of  the  day  when  she's  in  here  alone  I  ought  to  set  to  and  redecorate.  I  feel  uncasy-she,  al  one  in  th  is  room.  Waiting  for  her  hair  to  dry,  lis-  tening  to  the  radio,  turning  the  radi  o  off.  I'd  sooner  the  room  stayed  un-  mem  orabl  e.  'The  room  I  was  born  in  was  my  room  until  I  was  eighteen  years  old.  When  I  was  very  small,  my  sister  was  born  in  it,  only  to  die  within  the  month.  I  slept  during  those  weeks,  and  while  my  mother  r  aged  with  puer  -  peral  fever,  in  the  living  room.  Until  I  was  in  my  teens,  I  gasped  there  every  sum  mer  with  my  asthma.  During  the  war,  in  that  room,  my  bed  was  inside  one  of  those  iron  air-raid  shelters.  When  my  two  uncles  died-one  shot  in  the  African  desert,  one  blown  up  by  a  mine  on  a  beach-I  was  sent  into  that  room  to  do  my  crving,  while  my  father  hid  his  eyes  in  h  is  bedroom,  wher  e  I  couldn't  go.  I  could  tell  you  exactly  how  many  yellow  roses  there  were  on  that  wallpaper,  reproduce  the  pattern  of  the  plywood  that  lined  the  fitted  cupboard.  When  there  were  high  tides  in  November  and  March,  gales  could  whip  the  spray  off  the  Channel     pear  tree  outside.  Never  any  pears.  A  blind  tree,  my  father  called  it.  OWNST  AIRS,  the  telephone  rang  while  I  lay  .on  the  bed.  My  wife  called  me,  but  I  didn't  answer.  She  would  have  assumed  that  I'd  gone  out  for  a  walk-for  what  would  I  be  doing  up  here?  I  was  private,  asI  could  be  nowhere  else  in  the  house.  In  my  study,  in  the  bathroom,  they'd  know  where  to  find  me,  but  not  here.  'This  could  be  made  into  a  splendid  room.  We  had  plans,  when  we  first  came,  for  turning  it  into  a  dark,  Wil-  liam  Morrisy  antre  similar  in  effect  to  that  gloomy  fantasy  of  a  room  in  the  Victoria  and  Albert  Museum.  Not  that  we  would  now-though  you  can  still  buy,  quite  readily  and  cheaply,  those  heavy  papers  and  rich  tapestry  drapes  that  came  into  fashion  seven  or  eight  years  ago.  It  would  have  begun  by  looking  pretentious,  and  by  now  it  would  have  grown  tatty  and  depress-  ing.  A  white  ceiling,  plain  walls,  and  simple  curtain  fabric  would  do  fine.  Something  clean  and  cheerful-with-  out  impinging,  I  mean.  After  the  children  had  stopped  play-  ing  outside,  I  went  to  the  window  again.  The  martin  was  still  at  work,  but  I  looked  beyond  it,  beyond  the  gar-  as  far  as  my  window,  There  was  a  den  wall,  toward  the  view  I've  seldom  stopped  to  contemplate.  'There  are  fields-one  with  tall  hay  soon  to  be  cut,  an-  other  with  grazing  cows-  then  a  line  of  poplars  and  a  market  garden;  a  busy  road  then,  and  the  farther  mead-  ows  rising  toward  the  South  Downs.  I  can  see  a  wind-  mill  that's  celebrated  in  a  poem  by  Belloc,  and  some  marvellous  stands  of  beech-  es  where  we  sometimes  go  walking  at  weekends.  It's  a  view  to  be  grateful  for,  that  I'm  aware  of,  that  I  men-  tion  to  new  acquaintances  when  I'm  asked  about  the  place  where  I  live.  I  turned  away,  though.  The  beauty  would  always  be  there  to  look  at.  It  would  be  there  day  after  day  at  the  window  of  this  room,  We're  not  likely  to  move  from  here.  The  view  would  be  there  week,  in,  week  out,  the  months  making  their  slow  accre-  tions  of  years.  To  have  reached  forty  without  hav-  ing  an  illness  more  serious  than  childhood  asthma  is,  I  guess,  unusual,  and  plain  good  for-  tune.  Every  morning  that  comes,  I  wake  up  in  this  room  to  thoughts  of  some  incurable  disease-cancer,  dis-  cased  heart,  or  whatever-convinced  that  it  can't  be  long  before  my  luck  runs  out.  Many  people  I've  men-  tioned  this  to  say  they  do  the  same.  I  get  up,  wash  and  shave,  have  break-  fast,  and  set  about  the  day's  work;  the  morbid  thoughts  pass,  only  to  return  the  following  morning.  I  suppose  this  would  be  the  room  where  I  should  be-I,  or  my  wife,  whoever  was  first.  'Then  the  room  would  have  to  be  taken  note  of.  There  would  have  to  be  flowers  in  that  vase.  The  window  would  be  spotless  glass,  to  let  in  the  end-  less  blue  skies,  the  breast  feathers  of  the  martin,  the  sweeps  of  Belloc's  mill.  You  would  listen  in  the  room  for  what-  ever  sounds  would  come  to  it:  crock-  ery  on  a  tray  being  carried  upstairs;  the  traffic  on  that  road;  after  dark,  in-  termittently,  a  restless  bird  under  the  caves,  twittering. "